
OejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhJIxxlhxahUgguhLusjgngu,hichYjxhOxypoxc

OenphjIxxlhnphaxshoejh pjhxahugcxgjhugczejsjhuohgxhfxpohugqhznoe
uytxpohgxhsjposnfonxgphzeuopxjrjskhhCx htuchfxmchno,hbnrjhnohuzuchxs
sj- pjhnoh gqjshoejhojstphxahoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnfjgpjhngfy qjq
znoehoenphjIxxlhxshxgyngjhuohzzzkb ojgijsbkxsb


Onoyj:hUgguhLusjgngu

U oexs:hYjxhOxypoxc

SjyjupjhQuoj:h. ych01,h1998h[JIxxlh#1399]
Yupoh mquojq:h. ych28,h2019

Yugb ubj:hJgbynpe

Feusufojshpjohjgfxqngb:h OA-8

***hPOUSOhXAhOENPhMSX.JFOhB OJGIJSBhJIXXLhUGGUhLUSJGNGUh***




Msxq fjqhichQurnqhIsuggug,hUgqsjzhPychugqhQurnqhZnqbjsk





hUGGUhLUSJGNGUh



hichYjxhOxypoxch


hOsugpyuojqhichFxgpougfjhBusgjooh




Fxgojgop


hMUSOhXGJ
hMUSOhOZX
hMUSOhOESJJ
hMUSOhAX S
hMUSOhANRJ
hMUSOhPNV
hMUSOhPJRJG
hMUSOhJNBEO



MUSOhXGJ


Feumojsh1

Eummchautnynjphusjhuyyhuynlj;hjrjsch geummchautnychnph geummchnghnop
xzghzuck

Jrjscoengbhzuphnghfxga pnxghnghoejhXiyxgplcp’hex pjkhOejhznajheuq
qnpfxrjsjqhoeuohoejhe piugqhzuphfusscngbhxghughngosnb jhznoehuhAsjgfe
bnsy,hzexheuqhijjghuhbxrjsgjpphnghoejnshautnyc,hugqhpejheuqhuggx gfjq
oxhejshe piugqhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohbxhxghynrngbhnghoejhputjhex pjhznoe
entkhOenphmxpnonxghxahuaaunspheuqhgxzhyupojqhoesjjhqucp,hugqhgxohxgyc
oejhe piugqhugqhznajhoejtpjyrjp,hi ohuyyhoejhtjtijsphxahoejnshautnyc
ugqhex pjexyq,hzjsjhmunga yychfxgpfnx phxahnokhJrjschmjspxghnghoej
ex pjhajyohoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhpjgpjhnghoejnshynrngbhoxbjoejs,hugqhoeuo
oejhposuchmjxmyjhisx beohoxbjoejshichfeugfjhnghugchnggheuqhtxsjhng
fxttxghznoehxgjhugxoejshoeughoejc,hoejhtjtijsphxahoejhautnychugq
ex pjexyqhxahoejhXiyxgplcpkhOejhznajhqnqhgxohyjurjhejshxzghsxxt,hoej
e piugqheuqhgxohijjghuohextjhaxshoesjjhqucpkhOejhfenyqsjghsughznyqhuyy
xrjshoejhex pj;hoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpphw ussjyjqhznoehoejhex pjljjmjs,
ugqhzsxojhoxhuhasnjgqhuplngbhejshoxhyxxlhx ohaxshuhgjzhpno uonxghaxs
ejs;hoejhtug-fxxlheuqhzuyljqhxaahoejhquchijaxsjh. pohuohqnggjshontj;
oejhlnofejg-tunq,hugqhoejhfxufetugheuqhbnrjghzusgngbk

Oesjjhqucphuaojshoejhw ussjy,hMsngfjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
Xiyxgplc—Ponru,huphejhzuphfuyyjqhnghoejhaupenxguiyjhzxsyq—zxljh mhuo
enph p uyhex s,hoeuohnp,huohjnbeohx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngb,hgxohnghenp
znaj’phijqsxxt,hi ohxghoejhyjuoejs-fxrjsjqhpxauhnghenphpo qckhEjho sgjq
xrjshenphpox o,hzjyy-fusjq-axshmjspxghxghoejhpmsngbchpxau,huphoex behej
zx yqhpnglhngoxhuhyxgbhpyjjmhubung;hejhrnbxsx pychjtisufjqhoejhmnyyxz
xghoejhxoejshpnqjhugqhi snjqhenphaufjhnghno;hi ohuyyhuohxgfjhejh. tmjq
 m,hpuoh mhxghoejhpxau,hugqhxmjgjqhenphjcjpk

“Cjp,hcjp,hexzhzuphnohgxz?”hejhoex beo,hbxngbhxrjshenphqsjutkh“Gxz,hexz
zuphno?hOxhijhp sj!hUyuinghzuphbnrngbhuhqnggjshuohQustpouqo;hgx,hgxo
Qustpouqo,hi ohpxtjoengbhUtjsnfugkhCjp,hi ohoejg,hQustpouqohzuphng
UtjsnfukhCjp,hUyuinghzuphbnrngbhuhqnggjshxghbyupphouiyjp,hugqhoej
ouiyjphpugb,h_Nyhtnxhojpxsx_—gxoh_Nyhtnxhojpxsx_hoex be,hi ohpxtjoengb
ijoojs,hugqhoejsjhzjsjhpxtjhpxsohxahynooyjhqjfugojsphxghoejhouiyj,hugq
oejchzjsjhzxtjg,hoxx,”hejhsjtjtijsjqk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phjcjphoznglyjqhbunyc,hugqhejhmxgqjsjqhznoehu
ptnyjkh“Cjp,hnohzuphgnfj,hrjschgnfjkhOejsjhzuphuhbsjuohqjuyhtxsjhoeuo
zuphqjynbeoa y,hxgychoejsj’phgxhm oongbhnohngoxhzxsqp,hxshjrjg
jvmsjppngbhnohnghxgj’phoex beophuzuljk”hUgqhgxonfngbhuhbyjuthxahynbeo
mjjmngbhnghijpnqjhxgjhxahoejhpjsbjhf soungp,hejhfejjsa yychqsxmmjqhenp
ajjohxrjshoejhjqbjhxahoejhpxau,hugqhajyohuix ohznoehoejthaxshenp
pynmmjsp,huhmsjpjgohxghenphyupohinsoequc,hzxsljqhaxshenthichenphznajhxg
bxyq-fxyxsjqhtxsxffxkhUgq,huphejheuqhqxgjhjrjschquchaxshoejhyupohgngj
cjusp,hejhposjofejqhx ohenpheugq,hznoex ohbjoongbh m,hoxzusqphoejhmyufj
zejsjhenphqsjppngb-bxzghuyzucphe gbhnghenphijqsxxtkhUgqhoejsj mxghej
p qqjgychsjtjtijsjqhoeuohejhzuphgxohpyjjmngbhnghenphznaj’phsxxt,hi ohng
enphpo qc,hugqhzec:hoejhptnyjhrugnpejqhasxthenphaufj,hejhlgnoojqhenp
isxzpk

“Ue,hue,hue!hXx!kkk”hejht oojsjq,hsjfuyyngbhjrjscoengbhoeuoheuq
eummjgjqkhUgqhubunghjrjschqjounyhxahenphw ussjyhznoehenphznajhzup
msjpjgohoxhenphntubnguonxg,huyyhoejhexmjyjppgjpphxahenphmxpnonxg,hugq
zxspohxahuyy,henphxzghau yok

“Cjp,hpejhzxg’ohaxsbnrjhtj,hugqhpejhfug’ohaxsbnrjhtjkhUgqhoejhtxpo
uza yhoengbhuix ohnohnphoeuohno’phuyyhtchau yo—uyyhtchau yo,hoex behN’t
gxohoxhiyutjkhOeuo’phoejhmxngohxahoejhzexyjhpno uonxg,”hejhsjayjfojqk
“Xe,hxe,hxe!”hejhljmohsjmjuongbhnghqjpmuns,huphejhsjtjtijsjqhoej
uf ojychmunga yhpjgpuonxgphfu pjqhenthichoenphw ussjyk

Txpoh gmyjupugohxahuyyhzuphoejhanspohtng ojhzejg,hxghfxtngb,heummchugq
bxxq-e txsjq,hasxthoejhoejuojs,hznoehuhe bjhmjushnghenpheugqhaxshenp
znaj,hejheuqhgxohax gqhenphznajhnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hoxhenphp smsnpj
euqhgxohax gqhejshnghoejhpo qchjnoejs,hugqhpuzhejshuohyupohnghejs
ijqsxxthznoehoejh gy flchyjoojshoeuohsjrjuyjqhjrjscoengbhnghejsheugqk

Pej,henphQxyyc,haxsjrjsha ppngbhugqhzxsscngbhxrjshex pjexyqhqjounyp,
ugqhyntnojqhnghejshnqjup,huphejhfxgpnqjsjq,hzuphpnoongbhmjsajfoychponyy
znoehoejhyjoojshnghejsheugq,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoehughjvmsjppnxghxa
exssxs,hqjpmuns,hugqhngqnbguonxgk

“Zeuo’phoenp?hoenp?”hpejhupljq,hmxngongbhoxhoejhyjoojsk

Ugqhuohoenphsjfxyyjfonxg,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphnphpxhxaojghoejhfupj,
zuphgxohpxht fehuggxcjqhuohoejhaufohnopjyahuphuohoejhzuchnghzenfehej
euqhtjohenphznaj’phzxsqpk

Oejsjheummjgjqhoxhenthuohoeuohngpougohzeuohqxjpheummjghoxhmjxmyjhzejg
oejchusjh gjvmjfojqychfu beohnghpxtjoengbhrjschqnpbsufja ykhEjhqnqhgxo
p ffjjqhnghuqumongbhenphaufjhoxhoejhmxpnonxghnghzenfehejhzuphmyufjq
oxzusqphenphznajhichoejhqnpfxrjschxahenphau yokhNgpojuqhxahijngbhe so,
qjgcngb,hqjajgqngbhentpjya,hijbbngbhaxsbnrjgjpp,hngpojuqhxahsjtungngb
ngqnaajsjgohjrjg—ugcoengbhzx yqheurjhijjghijoojshoeughzeuohejhqnq
qx—enphaufjh oojsychngrxy gousnych(sjayjvhpmnguyhufonxg,hsjayjfojq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhzuphaxgqhxahmecpnxyxbc)— oojsychngrxy gousnyc
upp tjqhnopheuino uy,hbxxq-e txsjq,hugqhoejsjaxsjhnqnxonfhptnyjk

Oenphnqnxonfhptnyjhejhfx yqhgxohaxsbnrjhentpjyakhFuofengbhpnbeohxahoeuo
ptnyj,hQxyychpe qqjsjqhuphoex behuohmecpnfuyhmung,hisxljhx ohznoehejs
feusufojsnponfhejuohngoxhuhayxxqhxahfs jyhzxsqp,hugqhs pejqhx ohxahoej
sxxtkhPngfjhoejghpejheuqhsja pjqhoxhpjjhejshe piugqk

“No’phoeuohnqnxonfhptnyjhoeuo’phoxhiyutjhaxshnohuyy,”hoex beohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofek

“I ohzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hZeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahng
qjpmuns,hugqhax gqhgxhugpzjsk


Feumojsh2

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphuhos oea yhtughnghenphsjyuonxgphznoehentpjyak
Ejhzuphngfumuiyjhxahqjfjnrngbhentpjyahugqhmjsp uqngbhentpjyahoeuohej
sjmjgojqhxahenphfxgq fokhEjhfx yqhgxohuohoenphquojhsjmjgohxahoejhaufo
oeuohej,huheugqpxtj,hp pfjmoniyjhtughxahoensoc-ax s,hzuphgxohnghyxrj
znoehenphznaj,hoejhtxoejshxahanrjhynrngbhugqhozxhqjuqhfenyqsjg,hugq
xgychuhcjushcx gbjshoeughentpjyakhUyyhejhsjmjgojqhxahzuphoeuohejheuq
gxohp ffjjqjqhijoojshnghenqngbhnohasxthenphznajkhI ohejhajyohuyyhoej
qnaanf yochxahenphmxpnonxghugqhzuphpxsschaxshenphznaj,henphfenyqsjg,
ugqhentpjyakhMxppniychejhtnbeoheurjhtugubjqhoxhfxgfjuyhenphpngphijoojs
asxthenphznajhnahejheuqhugonfnmuojqhoeuohoejhlgxzyjqbjhxahoejthzx yq
eurjheuqhp fehughjaajfohxghejskhEjheuqhgjrjshfyjusychoex beohx ohoej
p i.jfo,hi ohejheuqhrub jychfxgfjnrjqhoeuohenphznajht pohyxgbhubxheurj
p pmjfojqhenthxahijngbh gaunoea yhoxhejs,hugqhpe ohejshjcjphoxhoej
aufokhEjheuqhjrjghp mmxpjqhoeuohpej,huhzxsg-x ohzxtughgxhyxgbjshcx gb
xshbxxq-yxxlngb,hugqhnghgxhzuchsjtusluiyjhxshngojsjpongb,htjsjychuhbxxq
txoejs,hx beohasxthuhpjgpjhxahaunsgjpphoxhouljhughngq ybjgohrnjzkhNo
euqho sgjqhx ohw nojhoejhxoejshzuck

“Xe,hno’phuza y!hxehqjus,hxehqjus!huza y!”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehljmo
sjmjuongbhoxhentpjya,hugqhejhfx yqhoenglhxahgxoengbhoxhijhqxgjkh“Ugq
exzhzjyyhoengbphzjsjhbxngbh mhonyyhgxz!hexzhzjyyhzjhbxohxg!hPejhzup
fxgojgojqhugqheummchnghejshfenyqsjg;hNhgjrjshngojsajsjqhznoehejshng
ugcoengb;hNhyjohejshtugubjhoejhfenyqsjghugqhoejhex pjh. pohuphpej
ynljqkhNo’phos jhno’phiuqh_ejs_heurngbhijjghuhbxrjsgjpphnghx shex pjk
Oeuo’phiuq!hOejsj’phpxtjoengbhfxttxg,hr ybus,hnghaynsongbhznoehxgj’p
bxrjsgjppkhI ohzeuohuhbxrjsgjpp!”h(Ejhrnrnqychsjfuyyjqhoejhsxb npe
iyuflhjcjphxahTyyjkhSxyugqhugqhejshptnyjk)h“I ohuaojshuyy,hzenyjhpej
zuphnghoejhex pj,hNhljmohtcpjyahngheugqkhUgqhoejhzxspohxahnohuyyhnp
oeuohpej’phuysjuqchkkkhnohpjjtphuphnahnyy-y flhzx yqheurjhnohpx!hXe,
xe!hI ohzeuo,hzeuohnphoxhijhqxgj?”

Oejsjhzuphgxhpxy onxg,hi ohoeuoh gnrjspuyhpxy onxghzenfehynajhbnrjphox
uyyhw jponxgp,hjrjghoejhtxpohfxtmyjvhugqhngpxy iyjkhOeuohugpzjshnp:hxgj
t pohynrjhnghoejhgjjqphxahoejhquc—oeuohnp,haxsbjohxgjpjyakhOxhaxsbjo
entpjyahnghpyjjmhzuphntmxppniyjhgxz,huohyjupohonyyhgnbeoontj;hejhfx yq
gxohbxhiuflhgxzhoxhoejht pnfhp gbhichoejhqjfugojs-zxtjg;hpxhejht po
axsbjohentpjyahnghoejhqsjuthxahqunychynajk

“Oejghzjhpeuyyhpjj,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya,hugqhbjoongb
 mhejhm ohxghuhbsuchqsjppngb-bxzghyngjqhznoehiy jhpnyl,honjqhoej
ouppjyphnghuhlgxo,hugq,hqsuzngbhuhqjjmhisjuoehxahunshngoxhenphisxuq,
iusjhfejpo,hejhzuyljqhoxhoejhzngqxzhznoehenph p uyhfxganqjgohpojm,
o sgngbhx ohenphajjohoeuohfussnjqhenpha yyhasutjhpxhjupnyckhEjhm yyjq
 mhoejhiyngqhugqhsugbhoejhijyyhyx qyckhNohzuphuohxgfjhugpzjsjqhichoej
ummjusugfjhxahughxyqhasnjgq,henphruyjo,hTuorjc,hfusscngbhenphfyxoejp,
enphixxop,hugqhuhojyjbsutkhTuorjchzuphaxyyxzjqhichoejhiusijshznoehuyy
oejhgjfjppusnjphaxshpeurngbk

“Usjhoejsjhugchmumjsphasxthoejhxaanfj?”hupljqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
oulngbhoejhojyjbsuthugqhpjuongbhentpjyahuohoejhyxxlngb-byuppk

“Xghoejhouiyj,”hsjmynjqhTuorjc,hbyugfngbhznoehngw nsngbhpctmuoechuohenp
tupojs;hugq,huaojshuhpexsohmu pj,hejhuqqjqhznoehuhpychptnyj,h“Oejc’rj
pjgohasxthoejhfussnubj-.xiijspk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehtuqjhgxhsjmyc,hejhtjsjychbyugfjqhuohTuorjchnghoej
yxxlngb-byuppkhNghoejhbyugfj,hnghzenfehoejnshjcjphtjohnghoej
yxxlngb-byupp,hnohzuphfyjushoeuohoejch gqjspoxxqhxgjhugxoejskhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe’phjcjphupljq:h“Zechqxhcx hojyyhtjhoeuo?hqxg’ohcx hlgxz?”

Tuorjchm ohenpheugqphnghenph.ufljohmxfljop,hoes pohx ohxgjhyjb,hugq
budjqhpnyjgoyc,hbxxq-e txsjqyc,hznoehuhaungohptnyj,huohenphtupojsk

“NhoxyqhoejthoxhfxtjhxghP gquc,hugqhonyyhoejghgxohoxhosx iyjhcx hxs
oejtpjyrjphaxshgxoengb,”hejhpunqkhEjheuqhxirnx pychmsjmusjqhoej
pjgojgfjhijaxsjeugqk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuzhTuorjchzugojqhoxhtuljhuh.xljhugqhuoosufo
uoojgonxghoxhentpjyakhOjusngbhxmjghoejhojyjbsut,hejhsjuqhnohoesx be,
b jppngbhuohoejhzxsqp,htnppmjyohuphoejchuyzucphusjhnghojyjbsutp,hugq
enphaufjhisnbeojgjqk

“Tuorjc,htchpnpojshUgguhUsluqcjrguhznyyhijhejsjhoxtxssxz,”hejhpunq,
fejflngbhaxshuhtng ojhoejhpyjjl,hmy tmheugqhxahoejhiusijs,hf oongbhu
mnglhmuoehoesx behenphyxgb,hf sychzenpljspk

“OeuglhBxq!”hpunqhTuorjc,hpexzngbhichoenphsjpmxgpjhoeuohej,hynljhenp
tupojs,hsjuyndjqhoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoenphussnruy—oeuohnp,hoeuohUggu
Usluqcjrgu,hoejhpnpojshejhzuphpxhaxgqhxa,htnbeohisngbhuix ohu
sjfxgfnynuonxghijozjjghe piugqhugqhznajk

“Uyxgj,hxshznoehejshe piugq?”hngw nsjqhTuorjck

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfx yqhgxohugpzjs,huphoejhiusijshzuphuohzxslhxghenp
 mmjshynm,hugqhejhsunpjqhxgjhangbjskhTuorjchgxqqjqhuohoej
yxxlngb-byuppk

“UyxgjkhNphoejhsxxthoxhijhbxohsjuqch mpounsp?”

“NgaxsthQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu:hzejsjhpejhxsqjspk”

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu?”hTuorjchsjmjuojq,huphoex behnghqx iok

“Cjp,hngaxsthejskhEjsj,houljhoejhojyjbsut;hbnrjhnohoxhejs,hugqhoejghqx
zeuohpejhojyyphcx k”

“Cx hzugohoxhoschnohxg,”hTuorjch gqjspoxxq,hi ohejhxgychpunq,h“Cjp,
pnsk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphuysjuqchzupejqhugqhfxtijqhugqhsjuqchoxhij
qsjppjq,hzejghTuorjc,hpojmmngbhqjynijsuojychnghenphfsjulchixxop,hfutj
iuflhngoxhoejhsxxthznoehoejhojyjbsuthnghenpheugqkhOejhiusijsheuqhbxgjk

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxyqhtjhoxhngaxsthcx hoeuohpejhnphbxngbhuzuckhYjo
enthqx—oeuohnphcx —uphejhynljp,”hejhpunq,hyu bengbhxgychznoehenphjcjp,
ugqhm oongbhenpheugqphnghenphmxfljop,hejhzuofejqhenphtupojshznoehenp
ejuqhxghxgjhpnqjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphpnyjgohuhtng ojkhOejghu
bxxq-e txsjqhugqhsuoejshmnona yhptnyjhpexzjqhnopjyahxghenpheugqpxtj
aufjk

“Je,hTuorjc?”hejhpunq,hpeulngbhenphejuqk

“No’phuyyhsnbeo,hpns;hpejhznyyhfxtjhsx gq,”hpunqhTuorjck

“Fxtjhsx gq?”

“Cjp,hpnsk”

“Qxhcx hoenglhpx?hZex’phoejsj?”hupljqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hejusngbhoej
s poyjhxahuhzxtug’phqsjpphuohoejhqxxsk

“No’phN,”hpunqhuhanst,hmyjupugo,hzxtug’phrxnfj,hugqhoejhpojsg,
mxfltusljqhaufjhxahTuosxguhMenyntxgxrgu,hoejhg spj,hzuphoes pohnghuo
oejhqxxszuck

“Zjyy,hzeuohnphno,hTuosxgu?”hw jsnjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbxngbh mhox
ejshuohoejhqxxsk

Uyoex behPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphfxtmyjojychnghoejhzsxgbhuphsjbusqphenp
znaj,hugqhzuphfxgpfnx phxahoenphentpjya,huytxpohjrjscxgjhnghoejhex pj
(jrjghoejhg spj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phfenjahuyyc)hzuphxghenphpnqjk

“Zjyy,hzeuohgxz?”hejhupljqhqnpfxgpxyuojyck

“Bxhoxhejs,hpns;hxzghcx shau yohubungkhTucijhBxqhznyyhunqhcx khPejhnp
p aajsngbhpx,hno’phpuqhoxhpjjhejs;hugqhijpnqjp,hjrjscoengbhnghoejhex pj
nphoxmpc-o srckhCx ht poheurjhmnoc,hpns,hxghoejhfenyqsjgkhIjbhejs
axsbnrjgjpp,hpnskhOejsj’phgxhejymhaxshno!hXgjht pohouljhoej
fxgpjw jgfjpkkkk”

“I ohpejhzxg’ohpjjhtjk”

“Cx hqxhcx shmusokhBxqhnphtjsfna y;hmsuchoxhBxq,hpns,hmsuchoxhBxqk”

“Fxtj,hoeuo’yyhqx,hcx hfughbx,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hiy pengb
p qqjgyckh“Zjyyhgxz,hqxhqsjpphtjk”hEjho sgjqhoxhTuorjchugqhoesjzhxaa
enphqsjppngb-bxzghqjfnpnrjyck

Tuorjchzuphuysjuqchexyqngbh mhoejhpensohynljhuhexspj’phfxyyus,hugq,
iyxzngbhxaahpxtjhngrnpniyjhpmjfl,hejhpynmmjqhnohznoehxirnx phmyjup sj
xrjshoejhzjyy-bsxxtjqhixqchxahenphtupojsk


Feumojsh3

Zejghejhzuphqsjppjq,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpmsnglyjqhpxtjhpfjgohxg
entpjya,hm yyjqhqxzghenphpenso-f aap,hqnposni ojqhngoxhenphmxfljophenp
fnbusjoojp,hmxfljoixxl,htuofejp,hugqhzuofehznoehnophqx iyjhfeunghugq
pjuyp,hugqhpeulngbhx ohenpheugqljsfenja,hajjyngbhentpjyahfyjug,
asubsugo,hejuyoec,hugqhmecpnfuyychuohjupj,hnghpmnojhxahenph geummngjpp,
ejhzuyljqhznoehuhpynbeohpzngbhxghjufehyjbhngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxt,hzejsj
fxaajjhzuphuysjuqchzunongbhaxshent,hugqhijpnqjhoejhfxaajj,hyjoojsphugq
mumjsphasxthoejhxaanfjk

EjhsjuqhoejhyjoojspkhXgjhzuphrjsch gmyjupugo,hasxthuhtjsfeugohzexhzup
i cngbhuhaxsjpohxghenphznaj’phmsxmjsockhOxhpjyyhoenphaxsjpohzup
uipxy ojychjppjgonuy;hi ohuohmsjpjgo,h gonyhejhzuphsjfxgfnyjqhznoehenp
znaj,hoejhp i.jfohfx yqhgxohijhqnpf ppjqkhOejhtxpoh gmyjupugohoengbhxa
uyyhzuphoeuohenphmjf gnuschngojsjpophpex yqhnghoenphzuchjgojshngoxhoej
w jponxghxahenphsjfxgfnynuonxghznoehenphznajkhUgqhoejhnqjuhoeuohej
tnbeohijhyjqhxghichenphngojsjpop,hoeuohejhtnbeohpjjlhuhsjfxgfnynuonxg
znoehenphznajhxghuffx gohxahoejhpuyjhxahoejhaxsjpo—oeuohnqjuhe sohentk

Zejghejheuqhangnpejqhenphyjoojsp,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehtxrjqhoej
xaanfj-mumjsphfyxpjhoxhent,hsumnqychyxxljqhoesx behozxhmnjfjphxa
i pngjpp,htuqjhuhajzhgxojphznoehuhinbhmjgfny,hugqhm pengbhuzuchoej
mumjsp,ho sgjqhoxhenphfxaajjkhUphejhpnmmjqhenphfxaajj,hejhxmjgjqhu
ponyyhqutmhtxsgngbhmumjs,hugqhijbughsjuqngbhnok

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhnghugqhsjuqhuhynijsuyhmumjs,hgxohughjvosjtj
xgj,hi ohxgjhuqrxfuongbhoejhrnjzphejyqhichoejhtu.xsnockhUgqhnghpmnojhxa
oejhaufohoeuohpfnjgfj,huso,hugqhmxynonfpheuqhgxhpmjfnuyhngojsjpohaxs
ent,hejhanstychejyqhoexpjhrnjzphxghuyyhoejpjhp i.jfophzenfehzjsjhejyq
ichoejhtu.xsnochugqhichenphmumjs,hugqhejhxgychfeugbjqhoejthzejghoej
tu.xsnochfeugbjqhoejt—xs,htxsjhposnfoychpmjulngb,hejhqnqhgxohfeugbj
oejt,hi ohoejchntmjsfjmoniychfeugbjqhxahoejtpjyrjphznoenghentk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhgxohfexpjghenphmxynonfuyhxmngnxgphxshenphrnjzp;
oejpjhmxynonfuyhxmngnxgphugqhrnjzpheuqhfxtjhoxhenthxahoejtpjyrjp,h. po
uphejhqnqhgxohfexxpjhoejhpeumjphxahenpheuohugqhfxuo,hi ohpntmychoxxl
oexpjhoeuohzjsjhijngbhzxsgkhUgqhaxshent,hynrngbhnghuhfjsoung
pxfnjoc—xzngbhoxhoejhgjjq,hxsqngusnychqjrjyxmjqhuohcjusphxahqnpfsjonxg,
axshpxtjhqjbsjjhxahtjgouyhufonrnoc—oxheurjhrnjzphzuph. pohup
ngqnpmjgpuiyjhuphoxheurjhuheuokhNahoejsjhzuphuhsjupxghaxshenp
msjajssngbhynijsuyhoxhfxgpjsruonrjhrnjzp,hzenfehzjsjhejyqhuypxhichtugc
xahenphfnsfyj,hnohusxpjhgxohasxthenphfxgpnqjsngbhynijsuynpthtxsj
suonxguy,hi ohasxthnophijngbhnghfyxpjshuffxsqugfjhznoehenphtuggjshxa
ynajkhOejhynijsuyhmusochpunqhoeuohnghS ppnuhjrjscoengbhnphzsxgb,hugq
fjsoungychPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhtugchqjiophugqhzuphqjfnqjqychpexsohxa
txgjckhOejhynijsuyhmusochpunqhoeuohtussnubjhnphughngpono onxghw nojhx o
xahquoj,hugqhoeuohnohgjjqphsjfxgpos fonxg;hugqhautnychynajhfjsoungyc
uaaxsqjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehynooyjhbsuonanfuonxg,hugqhaxsfjqhenthngox
ycngbhugqhecmxfsnpc,hzenfehzuphpxhsjm ypnrjhoxhenphguo sjkhOejhynijsuy
musochpunq,hxshsuoejshuyyxzjqhnohoxhijh gqjspoxxq,hoeuohsjynbnxghnp
xgychuhf sihoxhljjmhnghfejflhoejhiusiusx phfyuppjphxahoejhmjxmyj;hugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfx yqhgxohbjohoesx behjrjghuhpexsohpjsrnfjhznoex o
enphyjbphufengbhasxthpougqngbh m,hugqhfx yqhgjrjshtuljhx ohzeuohzuphoej
xi.jfohxahuyyhoejhojssniyjhugqhenbe-ayxzghyugb ubjhuix ohugxoejshzxsyq
zejghynajhtnbeohijhpxhrjschut pngbhnghoenphzxsyqkhUgqhznoehuyyhoenp,
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhynljqhuh.xlj,hzuphaxgqhxahm ddyngbhuhmyunghtug
ichpucngbhoeuohnahejhmsnqjqhentpjyahxghenphxsnbng,hejhx beohgxohoxhpoxm
uohS snlhugqhqnpxzghoejhanspohax gqjshxahenphautnyc—oejhtxgljckhUgqhpx
YnijsuynptheuqhijfxtjhuheuinohxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’p,hugqhejhynljq
enphgjzpmumjs,huphejhqnqhenphfnbushuaojshqnggjs,haxshoejhpynbeohaxbhno
qnaa pjqhnghenphisungkhEjhsjuqhoejhyjuqngbhusonfyj,hnghzenfehnohzup
tungoungjqhoeuohnohzuphw nojhpjgpjyjpphnghx shquchoxhsunpjhughx ofsc
oeuohsuqnfuynpthzuphoesjuojgngbhoxhpzuyyxzh mhuyyhfxgpjsruonrj
jyjtjgop,hugqhoeuohoejhbxrjsgtjgohx beohoxhouljhtjup sjphoxhfs pehoej
sjrxy onxguschecqsu;hoeuo,hxghoejhfxgosusc,h“nghx shxmngnxghoejhqugbjs
ynjphgxohnghoeuohaugouponfhsjrxy onxguschecqsu,hi ohnghoejhxipongufchxa
osuqnonxguynpthfyxbbngbhmsxbsjpp,”hjofk,hjofkhEjhsjuqhugxoejshusonfyj,
oxx,huhangugfnuyhxgj,hzenfehuyy qjqhoxhIjgoeuthugqhTnyy,hugqhqsxmmjq
pxtjhngg jgqxjphsjayjfongbhxghoejhtngnposckhZnoehenphfeusufojsnponf
w nflznoojqgjpphejhfu beohoejhqsnaohxahjufehngg jgqx,hqnrngjqhzejgfjhno
futj,huohzexthugqhxghzeuohbsx gqhnohzuphuntjq,hugqhoeuohuaaxsqjqhent,
uphnohuyzucphqnq,huhfjsounghpuonpaufonxgkhI ohoxquchoeuohpuonpaufonxg
zuphjtinoojsjqhichTuosxguhMenyntxgxrgu’phuqrnfjhugqhoejh gpuonpaufoxsc
pouojhxahoejhex pjexyqkhEjhsjuq,hoxx,hoeuohFx gohIjnpohzuphs txsjqhox
eurjhyjaohaxshZnjpiuqjg,hugqhoeuohxgjhgjjqheurjhgxhtxsjhbsucheuns,hugq
xahoejhpuyjhxahuhynbeohfussnubj,hugqhxahuhcx gbhmjspxghpjjlngbhu
pno uonxg;hi ohoejpjhnojtphxahngaxstuonxghqnqhgxohbnrjhent,huph p uy,hu
w njo,hnsxgnfuyhbsuonanfuonxgkhEurngbhangnpejqhoejhmumjs,huhpjfxgqhf m
xahfxaajjhugqhuhsxyyhugqhi oojs,hejhbxoh m,hpeulngbhoejhfs tiphxahoej
sxyyhxaahenphzunpofxuo;hugq,hpw usngbhenphisxuqhfejpo,hejhptnyjq
.xcx pyc:hgxohijfu pjhoejsjhzuphugcoengbhmusonf yusychubsjjuiyjhnghenp
tngq—oejh.xcx phptnyjhzuphjrxljqhichuhbxxqhqnbjponxgk

I ohoenph.xcx phptnyjhuohxgfjhsjfuyyjqhjrjscoengbhoxhent,hugqhejhbsjz
oex beoa yk

Ozxhfenyqnpehrxnfjph(PojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjfxbgndjqhoejhrxnfjphxa
Bsnpeu,henphcx gbjpohixc,hugqhOugcu,henphjyqjpohbnsy)hzjsjhejusq
x opnqjhoejhqxxskhOejchzjsjhfusscngbhpxtjoengb,hugqhqsxmmjqhnok

“Nhoxyqhcx hgxohoxhpnohmuppjgbjsphxghoejhsxxa,”hpunqhoejhynooyjhbnsyhng
Jgbynpe;h“oejsj,hmnflhoejth m!”

“Jrjscoengb’phnghfxga pnxg,”hoex beohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe;h“oejsjhusj
oejhfenyqsjghs ggngbhuix ohichoejtpjyrjpk”hUgqhbxngbhoxhoejhqxxs,hej
fuyyjqhoejtkhOejchoesjzhqxzghoejhixv,hoeuohsjmsjpjgojqhuhosung,hugq
futjhnghoxhoejnshauoejsk

Oejhynooyjhbnsy,hejshauoejs’phaurxsnoj,hsugh mhixyqyc,hjtisufjqhent,
ugqhe gbhyu bengbychxghenphgjfl,hjg.xcngbhuphpejhuyzucphqnqhoejhptjyy
xahpfjgohoeuohfutjhasxthenphzenpljspkhUohyupohoejhynooyjhbnsyhlnppjq
enphaufj,hzenfehzuphay pejqhasxthenphpoxxmngbhmxpo sjhugqhijutngbhznoe
ojgqjsgjpp,hyxxpjqhejsheugqp,hugqhzuphuix ohoxhs ghuzuchubung;hi ohejs
auoejshejyqhejshiuflk

“Exzhnphtuttu?”hejhupljq,hmuppngbhenpheugqhxrjshenphqu beojs’phptxxoe,
pxaohynooyjhgjflkh“Bxxqhtxsgngb,”hejhpunq,hptnyngbhoxhoejhixc,hzexheuq
fxtjh mhoxhbsjjohentkhEjhzuphfxgpfnx phoeuohejhyxrjqhoejhixchyjpp,hugq
uyzucphosnjqhoxhijhauns;hi ohoejhixchajyohno,hugqhqnqhgxohsjpmxgqhznoe
uhptnyjhoxhenphauoejs’phfenyychptnyjk

“Tuttu?hPejhnph m,”hugpzjsjqhoejhbnsyk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpnbejqkh“Oeuohtjugphoeuohpej’phgxohpyjmohubunghuyy
gnbeo,”hejhoex beok

“Zjyy,hnphpejhfejjsa y?”

Oejhynooyjhbnsyhlgjzhoeuohoejsjhzuphuhw ussjyhijozjjghejshauoejshugq
txoejs,hugqhoeuohejshtxoejshfx yqhgxohijhfejjsa y,hugqhoeuohejshauoejs
t pohijhuzusjhxahoenp,hugqhoeuohejhzuphmsjojgqngbhzejghejhupljqhuix o
nohpxhynbeoyckhUgqhpejhiy pejqhaxshejshauoejskhEjhuohxgfjhmjsfjnrjqhno,
ugqhiy pejqhoxxk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz,”hpejhpunqkh“Pejhqnqhgxohpuchzjht pohqxhx shyjppxgp,hi o
pejhpunqhzjhzjsjhoxhbxhaxshuhzuylhznoehTnpphExxyjhoxhbsugqtuttu’pk”

“Zjyy,hbx,hOugcu,htchqusyngbkhXe,hzunohuhtng oj,hoex be,”hejhpunq,
ponyyhexyqngbhejshugqhposxlngbhejshpxaohynooyjheugqk

Ejhoxxlhxaahoejhtugojymnjfj,hzejsjhejheuqhm ohnohcjpojsquc,huhynooyj
ixvhxahpzjjop,hugqhburjhejshozx,hmnflngbhx ohejshaurxsnojp,huhfexfxyuoj
ugqhuhaxgqugok

“AxshBsnpeu?”hpunqhoejhynooyjhbnsy,hmxngongbhoxhoejhfexfxyuojk

“Cjp,hcjpk”hUgqhponyyhposxlngbhejshynooyjhpex yqjs,hejhlnppjqhejshxg
oejhsxxophxahejsheunshugqhgjfl,hugqhyjohejshbxk

“Oejhfussnubjhnphsjuqc,”hpunqhTuorjc;h“i ohoejsj’phpxtjxgjhoxhpjjhcx 
znoehuhmjononxgk”

“Ijjghejsjhyxgb?”hupljqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Euyahughex sk”

“ExzhtugchontjpheurjhNhoxyqhcx hoxhojyyhtjhuohxgfj?”

“Xgjht pohyjohcx hqsnglhcx shfxaajjhnghmjufj,huohyjupo,”hpunqhTuorjc,
nghoejhuaajfonxguojychbs aahoxgjhznoehzenfehnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhij
ugbsck

“Zjyy,hpexzhoejhmjspxgh mhuohxgfj,”hpunqhXiyxgplc,hasxzgngbhznoe
rjvuonxgk

Oejhmjononxgjs,hoejhznqxzhxahuhpouaahfumounghLuyngng,hfutjhznoehu
sjw jpohntmxppniyjhugqh gsjupxguiyj;hi ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphej
bjgjsuyychqnq,htuqjhejshpnohqxzg,hejusqhejshoxhoejhjgqhuoojgonrjyc
znoex ohngojss mongbhejs,hugqhburjhejshqjounyjqhuqrnfjhuphoxhexzhugqhox
zexthoxhummyc,hugqhjrjghzsxojhejs,hnghenphyusbj,hpmsuzyngb,hbxxqhugq
yjbniyjheugq,huhfxganqjgohugqhay jgohynooyjhgxojhoxhuhmjspxgubjhzex
tnbeohijhxah pjhoxhejskhEurngbhbxohsnqhxahoejhpouaahfumoung’phznqxz,
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhenpheuohugqhpoxmmjqhoxhsjfxyyjfohzejoejshej
euqhaxsbxoojghugcoengbkhNohummjusjqhoeuohejheuqhaxsbxoojghgxoengb
jvfjmohzeuohejhzugojqhoxhaxsbjo—enphznajk

“Ue,hcjp!”hEjhixzjqhenphejuq,hugqhenpheugqpxtjhaufjhupp tjqhuheusuppjq
jvmsjppnxgkh“Oxhbx,hxshgxohoxhbx!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya;hugqhughnggjs
rxnfjhoxyqhenthejht pohgxohbx,hoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhfxtjhxahnohi o
auypnoc;hoeuohoxhutjgq,hoxhpjohsnbeohoejnshsjyuonxgphzuphntmxppniyj,
ijfu pjhnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhtuljhejshuoosufonrjhubunghugqhuiyjhox
ngpmnsjhyxrj,hxshoxhtuljhenthughxyqhtug,hgxohp pfjmoniyjhoxhyxrjk
Jvfjmohqjfjnohugqhycngbhgxoengbhfx yqhfxtjhxahnohgxz;hugqhqjfjnohugq
ycngbhzjsjhxmmxpjqhoxhenphguo sjk

“Noht pohijhpxtjhontj,hoex be:hnohfug’ohbxhxghynljhoenp,”hejhpunq,
oscngbhoxhbnrjhentpjyahfx subjkhEjhpw usjqhenphfejpo,hoxxlhx ohu
fnbusjooj,hoxxlhozxhzenaaphuohno,hay gbhnohngoxhuhtxoejs-xa-mjusy
upeosuc,hugqhznoehsumnqhpojmphzuyljqhoesx behoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hugq
xmjgjqhoejhxoejshqxxshngoxhenphznaj’phijqsxxtk


Feumojsh4

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hnghuhqsjppngbh.ufljo,hugqhznoehejshgxzhpfugoc,hxgfj
y v snugohugqhiju ona yheunshaupojgjqh mhznoeheunsmngphxghoejhgumjhxa
ejshgjfl,hznoehuhp gljg,hoenghaufjhugqhyusbj,hpousoyjqhjcjp,hzenfe
yxxljqhmsxtngjgohasxthoejhoenggjpphxahejshaufj,hzuphpougqngbhutxgbhu
ynoojshxahuyyhpxsophxahoengbphpfuoojsjqhuyyhxrjshoejhsxxt,hijaxsjhug
xmjghi sju ,hasxthzenfehpejhzuphoulngbhpxtjoengbkhEjusngbhejshe piugq’p
pojmp,hpejhpoxmmjq,hyxxlngbhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hugqhoscngbhuppnq x pychox
bnrjhejshajuo sjphuhpjrjsjhugqhfxgojtmo x phjvmsjppnxgkhPejhajyohpej
zuphuasunqhxahent,hugqhuasunqhxahoejhfxtngbhngojsrnjzkhPejhzuph. po
uoojtmongbhoxhqxhzeuohpejheuqhuoojtmojqhoxhqxhojghontjphuysjuqchng
oejpjhyupohoesjjhqucp—oxhpxsohx ohoejhfenyqsjg’phoengbphugqhejshxzg,hpx
uphoxhouljhoejthoxhejshtxoejs’p—ugqhubunghpejhfx yqhgxohisngbhejspjya
oxhqxhoenp;hi ohgxzhubung,huphjufehontjhijaxsj,hpejhljmohpucngbhox
ejspjya,h“oeuohoengbphfuggxohbxhxghynljhoenp,hoeuohpejht pohouljhpxtj
pojm”hoxhm gnpehent,hm ohenthoxhpeutj,hurjgbjhxghenthpxtjhynooyjhmuso
uohyjupohxahoejhp aajsngbhejheuqhfu pjqhejskhPejhponyyhfxgong jqhox
ojyyhejspjyahoeuohpejhpex yqhyjurjhent,hi ohpejhzuphfxgpfnx phoeuohoenp
zuphntmxppniyj;hnohzuphntmxppniyjhijfu pjhpejhfx yqhgxohbjohx ohxahoej
euinohxahsjbusqngbhenthuphejshe piugqhugqhyxrngbhentkhIjpnqjphoenp,hpej
sjuyndjqhoeuohnahjrjghejsjhnghejshxzghex pjhpejhfx yqheusqychtugubjhox
yxxlhuaojshejshanrjhfenyqsjghmsxmjsyc,hoejchzx yqhijhponyyhzxspjhxaa
zejsjhpejhzuphbxngbhznoehoejthuyykhUphnohzup,hjrjghnghoejhfx spjhxa
oejpjhoesjjhqucp,hoejhcx gbjpohzuph gzjyyhasxthijngbhbnrjgh gzexyjpxtj
px m,hugqhoejhxoejspheuqhuytxpohbxgjhznoex ohoejnshqnggjshoejhquc
ijaxsjkhPejhzuphfxgpfnx phoeuohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhbxhuzuc;hi o,
fejuongbhejspjya,hpejhzjgohxghuyyhoejhputjhpxsongbhx ohejshoengbphugq
msjojgqngbhpejhzuphbxngbk

Pjjngbhejshe piugq,hpejhqsxmmjqhejsheugqphngoxhoejhqsuzjshxahoejhi sju 
uphoex behyxxlngbhaxshpxtjoengb,hugqhxgychyxxljqhsx gqhuohenthzejghej
euqhfxtjhw nojh mhoxhejskhI ohejshaufj,hoxhzenfehpejhosnjqhoxhbnrjhu
pjrjsjhugqhsjpxy ojhjvmsjppnxg,hijosucjqhijznyqjstjgohugqhp aajsngbk

“Qxyyc!”hejhpunqhnghuhp iq jqhugqhontnqhrxnfjkhEjhijgohenphejuqhoxzusqp
enphpex yqjshugqhosnjqhoxhyxxlhmnona yhugqhe tiyj,hi ohaxshuyyhoeuohej
zuphsuqnugohznoehasjpegjpphugqhejuyoekhNghuhsumnqhbyugfjhpejhpfuggjq
enphanb sjhoeuohijutjqhznoehejuyoehugqhasjpegjppkh“Cjp,hejhnpheummchugq
fxgojgo!”hpejhoex beo;h“zenyjhNkkkkhUgqhoeuohqnpb pongbhbxxqhguo sj,
zenfehjrjscxgjhynljphenthaxshugqhmsunpjp—Nheuojhoeuohbxxqhguo sjhxa
enp,”hpejhoex beokhEjshtx oehponaajgjq,hoejht pfyjphxahoejhfejjl
fxgosufojqhxghoejhsnbeohpnqjhxahejshmuyj,hgjsrx phaufjk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugo?”hpejhpunqhnghuhsumnq,hqjjm,h gguo suyhrxnfjk

“Qxyyc!”hejhsjmjuojq,hznoehuhw nrjshnghenphrxnfjkh“Ugguhnphfxtngb
oxquck”

“Zjyy,hzeuohnphoeuohoxhtj?hNhfug’ohpjjhejs!”hpejhfsnjqk

“I ohcx ht po,hsjuyyc,hQxyyckkkk”

“Bxhuzuc,hbxhuzuc,hbxhuzuc!”hpejhpesnjljq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohent,hup
oex behoenphpesnjlhzjsjhfuyyjqh mhichmecpnfuyhmungk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfx yqhijhfuythzejghejhoex beohxahenphznaj,hejhfx yq
exmjhoeuohpejhzx yqh_fxtjhsx gq_,huphTuorjchjvmsjppjqhno,hugqhfx yq
w njoychbxhxghsjuqngbhenphmumjshugqhqsnglngbhenphfxaajj;hi ohzejghej
puzhejshoxso sjq,hp aajsngbhaufj,hejusqhoejhoxgjhxahejshrxnfj,
p itnppnrjhoxhauojhugqha yyhxahqjpmuns,hoejsjhzuphuhfuofehnghenphisjuoe
ugqhuhy tmhnghenphoesxuo,hugqhenphjcjphijbughoxhpengjhznoehojuspk

“TchBxq!hzeuoheurjhNhqxgj?hQxyyc!hAxshBxq’phpulj!kkkhCx hlgxzkkkk”hEj
fx yqhgxohbxhxg;hoejsjhzuphuhpxihnghenphoesxuok

Pejhpe ohoejhi sju hznoehuhpyut,hugqhbyugfjqhuohentk

“Qxyyc,hzeuohfughNhpuc?kkkhXgjhoengb:haxsbnrjkkkkhSjtjtijs,hfuggxohgngj
cjusphxahtchynajhuoxgjhaxshughngpougokkkk”

Pejhqsxmmjqhejshjcjphugqhynpojgjq,hjvmjfongbhzeuohejhzx yqhpuc,huphno
zjsjhijpjjfengbhenthnghpxtjhzuchxshxoejshoxhtuljhejshijynjrj
qnaajsjgoyck

“—ngpougohxahmuppnxg?”hejhpunq,hugqhzx yqheurjhbxgjhxg,hi ohuohoeuo
zxsq,huphuohuhmugbhxahmecpnfuyhmung,hejshynmphponaajgjqhubung,hugq
ubunghoejht pfyjphxahejshsnbeohfejjlhzxsljqk

“Bxhuzuc,hbxhx ohxahoejhsxxt!”hpejhpesnjljqhponyyhtxsjhpesnyyc,h“ugq
qxg’ohouylhoxhtjhxahcx shmuppnxghugqhcx shyxuoepxtjgjppk”

Pejhosnjqhoxhbxhx o,hi ohoxoojsjq,hugqhfy gbhoxhoejhiuflhxahuhfeunshox
p mmxsohejspjyakhEnphaufjhsjyuvjq,henphynmphpzjyyjq,henphjcjphzjsj
pznttngbhznoehojuspk

“Qxyyc!”hejhpunq,hpxiingbhgxz;h“axshtjsfc’phpulj,hoenglhxahoej
fenyqsjg;hoejchusjhgxohoxhiyutj!hNhuthoxhiyutj,hugqhm gnpehtj,htuljhtj
jvmnuojhtchau yokhUgcoengbhNhfughqx,hNhuthsjuqchoxhqxhugcoengb!hNhuthox
iyutj,hgxhzxsqphfughjvmsjpphexzht fehNhuthoxhiyutj!hI o,hQxyyc,haxsbnrj
tj!”

PejhpuohqxzgkhEjhynpojgjqhoxhejsheusq,hejurchisjuoengb,hugqhejhzup
 g oojsuiychpxsschaxshejskhPejhosnjqhpjrjsuyhontjphoxhijbnghoxhpmjul,
i ohfx yqhgxokhEjhzunojqk

“Cx hsjtjtijshoejhfenyqsjg,hPonru,hoxhmyuchznoehoejt;hi ohNhsjtjtijs
oejt,hugqhlgxzhoeuohoenphtjugphoejnshs ng,”hpejhpunq—xirnx pychxgjhxa
oejhmesupjphpejheuqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhsjmjuojqhoxhejspjyahnghoejhfx spjhxa
oejhyupohajzhqucpk

Pejheuqhfuyyjqhenth“Ponru,”hugqhejhbyugfjqhuohejshznoehbsuono qj,hugq
txrjqhoxhouljhejsheugq,hi ohpejhqsjzhiuflhasxthenthznoehurjspnxgk

“Nhoenglhxahoejhfenyqsjg,hugqhaxshoeuohsjupxghNhzx yqhqxhugcoengbhng
oejhzxsyqhoxhpurjhoejt,hi ohNhqxg’ohtcpjyahlgxzhexzhoxhpurjhoejtkhIc
oulngbhoejthuzuchasxthoejnshauoejs,hxshichyjurngbhoejthznoehuhrnfnx p
auoejs—cjp,huhrnfnx phauoejskkkkhOjyyhtj,huaojshzeuohkkkheupheummjgjq,
fughzjhynrjhoxbjoejs?hNphoeuohmxppniyj?hOjyyhtj,hje,hnphnohmxppniyj?”
pejhsjmjuojq,hsunpngbhejshrxnfj,h“uaojshtche piugq,hoejhauoejshxahtc
fenyqsjg,hjgojsphngoxhuhyxrjhuaaunshznoehenphxzghfenyqsjg’phbxrjsgjpp?”

“I ohzeuohfx yqhNhqx?hzeuohfx yqhNhqx?”hejhljmohpucngbhnghuhmnona y
rxnfj,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohejhzuphpucngb,huphenphejuqhpuglhyxzjshugq
yxzjsk

“Cx husjhyxuoepxtjhoxhtj,hsjm ypnrj!”hpejhpesnjljq,hbjoongbhtxsjhugq
txsjhejuojqkh“Cx shojusphtjughgxoengb!hCx heurjhgjrjshyxrjqhtj;hcx 
eurjhgjnoejshejusohgxshexgxsuiyjhajjyngb!hCx husjheuoja yhoxhtj,
qnpb pongb,huhposugbjs—cjp,huhfxtmyjojhposugbjs!”hZnoehmunghugqhzsuoe
pejh oojsjqhoejhzxsqhpxhojssniyjhoxhejspjya—_posugbjs_k

Ejhyxxljqhuohejs,hugqhoejha schjvmsjppjqhnghejshaufjhuyustjqhugqhutudjq
entkhEjhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhexzhenphmnochaxshejshjvupmjsuojqhejskhPej
puzhnghenthpctmuoechaxshejs,hi ohgxohyxrjkh“Gx,hpejheuojphtjkhPejhznyy
gxohaxsbnrjhtj,”hejhoex beok

“Nohnphuza y!huza y!”hejhpunqk

Uohoeuohtxtjgohnghoejhgjvohsxxthuhfenyqhijbughoxhfsc;hmsxiuiychnoheuq
auyyjghqxzgkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhynpojgjq,hugqhejshaufjhp qqjgyc
pxaojgjqk

Pejhpjjtjqhoxhijhm yyngbhejspjyahoxbjoejshaxshuhajzhpjfxgqp,huphoex be
pejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejsjhpejhzup,hugqhzeuohpejhzuphqxngb,hugqhbjoongbh m
sumnqyc,hpejhtxrjqhoxzusqphoejhqxxsk

“Zjyy,hpejhyxrjphtchfenyq,”hejhoex beo,hgxonfngbhoejhfeugbjhxahejshaufj
uohoejhfenyq’phfsc,h“tchfenyq:hexzhfughpejheuojhtj?”

“Qxyyc,hxgjhzxsqhtxsj,”hejhpunq,haxyyxzngbhejsk

“Nahcx hfxtjhgjushtj,hNhznyyhfuyyhnghoejhpjsrugop,hoejhfenyqsjg!hOejc
tuchuyyhlgxzhcx husjhuhpfx gqsjy!hNhuthbxngbhuzuchuohxgfj,hugqhcx htuc
ynrjhejsjhznoehcx shtnposjpp!”

Ugqhpejhzjgohx o,hpyuttngbhoejhqxxsk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpnbejq,hznmjqhenphaufj,hugqhznoehuhp iq jqhosjuq
zuyljqhx ohxahoejhsxxtkh“Tuorjchpucphpejhznyyhfxtjhsx gq;hi ohexz?hN
qxg’ohpjjhoejhyjupohfeugfjhxahnokhUe,hxe,hexzhexssniyjhnohnp!hUgqhexz
r ybusychpejhpex ojq,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hsjtjtijsngbhejshpesnjlhugq
oejhzxsqp—“pfx gqsjy”hugqh“tnposjppk”h“Ugqhrjschynljychoejhtunqphzjsj
ynpojgngb!hExssniychr ybus!hexssniyj!”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpoxxqhuhajz
pjfxgqphuyxgj,hznmjqhenphaufj,hpw usjqhenphfejpo,hugqhzuyljqhx ohxahoej
sxxtk

NohzuphAsnquc,hugqhnghoejhqngngb-sxxthoejhBjstughzuofetuljshzuphzngqngb
 mhoejhfyxflkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjtjtijsjqhenph.xljhuix ohoenp
m gfo uy,hiuyqhzuofetuljs,h“oeuohoejhBjstughzuphzx gqh mhaxshuhzexyj
ynajontjhentpjya,hoxhzngqh mhzuofejp,”hugqhejhptnyjqkhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehzuphaxgqhxahuh.xlj:h“Ugqhtucijhpejhznyyhfxtjhsx gq!hOeuo’p
uhbxxqhjvmsjppnxg,h‘_fxtjhsx gq,_’”hejhoex beokh“Nht pohsjmjuohoeuok”

“Tuorjc!”hejhpex ojqkh“UssugbjhjrjscoengbhznoehQuscuhnghoejhpnoongb
sxxthaxshUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hejhpunqhoxhTuorjchzejghejhfutjhngk

“Cjp,hpnsk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehm ohxghenpha shfxuohugqhzjgohx ohxgoxhoejhpojmpk

“Cx hzxg’ohqngjhuohextj?”hpunqhTuorjc,hpjjngbhenthxaak

“Oeuo’phuphnoheummjgpkhI ohejsj’phaxshoejhex pjljjmngb,”hejhpunq,
oulngbhojghsx iyjphasxthenphmxfljoixxlkh“Oeuo’yyhijhjgx bek”

“Jgx behxshgxohjgx be,hzjht pohtuljhnohqx,”hpunqhTuorjc,hpyuttngbhoej
fussnubjhqxxshugqhpojmmngbhiuflhxgoxhoejhpojmpk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhtjugzenyjheurngbhmufnanjqhoejhfenyq,hugqhlgxzngb
asxthoejhpx gqhxahoejhfussnubjhoeuohejheuqhbxgjhxaa,hzjgohiuflhubunghox
ejshijqsxxtkhNohzuphejshpxynouschsja bjhasxthoejhex pjexyqhfusjphzenfe
fsxzqjqh mxghejshqnsjfoychpejhzjgohx ohasxthnokhJrjghgxz,hnghoejhpexso
ontjhpejheuqhijjghnghoejhg spjsc,hoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpphugqhTuosxgu
Menyntxgxrguheuqhp ffjjqjqhnghm oongbhpjrjsuyhw jponxgphoxhejs,hzenfe
qnqhgxohuqtnohxahqjyuc,hugqhzenfehxgychpejhfx yqhugpzjs:h“Zeuohzjsjhoej
fenyqsjghoxhm ohxghaxshoejnshzuyl?hPex yqhoejcheurjhugchtnyl?hPex yq
gxohuhgjzhfxxlhijhpjgohaxs?”

“Ue,hyjohtjhuyxgj,hyjohtjhuyxgj!”hpejhpunq,hugqhbxngbhiuflhoxhejs
ijqsxxthpejhpuohqxzghnghoejhputjhmyufjhuphpejheuqhpuohzejghouylngbhox
ejshe piugq,hfyupmngbhonbeoychejshoengheugqphznoehoejhsngbphoeuo
pynmmjqhqxzghxghejshixgchangbjsp,hugqhajyyhoxhbxngbhxrjshnghejshtjtxsc
uyyhoejhfxgrjspuonxgkh“Ejheuphbxgj!hI oheuphejhisxljghnohxaahznoehejs?”
pejhoex beokh“Fughnohijhejhpjjphejs?hZechqnqg’ohNhuplhent!hGx,hgx,
sjfxgfnynuonxghnphntmxppniyjkhJrjghnahzjhsjtunghnghoejhputjhex pj,hzj
usjhposugbjsp—posugbjsphaxsjrjs!”hPejhsjmjuojqhubunghznoehpmjfnuy
pnbgnanfugfjhoejhzxsqhpxhqsjuqa yhoxhejskh“UgqhexzhNhyxrjqhent!htchBxq,
exzhNhyxrjqhent!kkkhExzhNhyxrjqhent!hUgqhgxzhqxg’ohNhyxrjhent?hQxg’ohN
yxrjhenthtxsjhoeughijaxsj?hOejhtxpohexssniyjhoengbhnp,”hpejhijbug,hi o
qnqhgxohangnpehejshoex beo,hijfu pjhTuosxguhMenyntxgxrguhm ohejshejuq
nghuohoejhqxxsk

“Yjoh phpjgqhaxshtchisxoejs,”hpejhpunq;h“ejhfughbjohuhqnggjshugczuc,hxs
zjhpeuyyheurjhoejhfenyqsjghbjoongbhgxoengbhoxhjuohonyyhpnvhubung,hynlj
cjpojsquck”

“Rjschzjyy,hNhznyyhfxtjhqnsjfoychugqhpjjhuix ohnokhI ohqnqhcx hpjgqhaxs
pxtjhgjzhtnyl?”

UgqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhmy gbjqhngoxhoejhq onjphxahoejhquc,hugqhqsxzgjq
ejshbsnjahnghoejthaxshuhontjk


Feumojsh5

PojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhyjusgjqhjupnychuohpfexxy,hoeuglphoxhenp
jvfjyyjgohuinynonjp,hi ohejheuqhijjghnqyjhugqhtnpfenjrx p,hugq
oejsjaxsjhzuphxgjhxahoejhyxzjpohnghenphfyuppkhI ohnghpmnojhxahenp
euino uyychqnppnmuojqhtxqjhxahynaj,henphngajsnxshbsuqjhnghoejhpjsrnfj,
ugqhenphfxtmusuonrjhcx oe,hejhxff mnjqhoejhexgxsuiyjhugqhy fsuonrj
mxpnonxghxahmsjpnqjgohxahxgjhxahoejhbxrjsgtjgohixusqphuohTxpfxzkhOenp
mxpohejheuqhsjfjnrjqhoesx behenphpnpojshUggu’phe piugq,hUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehLusjgng,hzexhejyqhxgjhxahoejhtxpohntmxsougohmxpnonxgphng
oejhtngnposchoxhzexpjhqjmusotjgohoejhTxpfxzhxaanfjhijyxgbjqkhI ohna
Lusjgngheuqhgxohbxohenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhoenphijsoe,hoejghoesx behu
e gqsjqhxoejshmjspxgubjp—isxoejsp,hpnpojsp,hfx pngp,h gfyjp,hugq
u gop—PonruhXiyxgplchzx yqheurjhsjfjnrjqhoenphmxpo,hxshpxtjhxoejs
pntnyushxgj,hoxbjoejshznoehoejhpuyuschxahpnvhoex pugqhuipxy ojyc
gjjqa yhaxshent,huphenphuaaunsp,hnghpmnojhxahenphznaj’phfxgpnqjsuiyj
msxmjsoc,hzjsjhnghughjtiussuppjqhfxgqnonxgk

EuyahTxpfxzhugqhMjojspi sbhzjsjhasnjgqphugqhsjyuonxgphxahPojmug
UsluqcjrnofekhEjhzuphixsghnghoejhtnqpohxahoexpjhzexheuqhijjghugqhusj
oejhmxzjsa yhxgjphxahoenphzxsyqkhXgj-oensqhxahoejhtjghnghoej
bxrjsgtjgo,hoejhxyqjshtjg,heuqhijjghasnjgqphxahenphauoejs’p,hugqheuq
lgxzghenthnghmjoonfxuop;hugxoejshoensqhzjsjhenphngontuojhfe tp,hugqhoej
sjtungqjshzjsjhasnjgqychufw ungougfjpkhFxgpjw jgoychoejhqnposni oxsphxa
jusoeychiyjppngbphnghoejhpeumjhxahmyufjp,hsjgop,hpeusjp,hugqhp fe,hzjsj
uyyhenphasnjgqp,hugqhfx yqhgxohxrjsyxxlhxgjhxahoejnshxzghpjo;hugq
Xiyxgplcheuqhgxhgjjqhoxhtuljhugchpmjfnuyhjvjsonxghoxhbjohuhy fsuonrj
mxpokhEjheuqhxgychgxohoxhsja pjhoengbp,hgxohoxhpexzh.juyx pc,hgxohoxhij
w ussjypxtjhxshouljhxaajgpj,huyyhxahzenfehasxthenphfeusufojsnponfhbxxq
guo sjhejhgjrjshqnqkhNohzx yqheurjhpos flhenthuphuip sqhnahejheuqhijjg
oxyqhoeuohejhzx yqhgxohbjohuhmxpnonxghznoehoejhpuyuschejhsjw nsjq,
jpmjfnuyychuphejhjvmjfojqhgxoengbhx ohxahoejhzuc;hejhxgychzugojqhzeuo
oejhtjghxahenphxzghubjhugqhpougqngbhqnqhbjo,hugqhejhzuphgxhzxspj
w uynanjqhaxshmjsaxstngbhq onjphxahoejhlngqhoeughugchxoejshtugk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphgxohtjsjychynljqhichuyyhzexhlgjzhenthaxshenp
bxxqhe txs,hi ohaxshenphisnbeohqnpmxpnonxg,hugqhenph gw jponxguiyj
exgjpockhNghent,hnghenpheugqpxtj,hsuqnugohanb sj,henphpmuslyngbhjcjp,
iyuflheunshugqhjcjisxzp,hugqhoejhzenojhugqhsjqhxahenphaufj,hoejsjhzup
pxtjoengbhzenfehmsxq fjqhuhmecpnfuyhjaajfohxahlngqyngjpphugqhbxxqhe txs
xghoejhmjxmyjhzexhtjohentkh“Ueu!hPonru!hXiyxgplc!hEjsjhejhnp!”hzup
uytxpohuyzucphpunqhznoehuhptnyjhxahqjynbeohxghtjjongbhentkhJrjghoex be
noheummjgjqhuohontjphoeuohuaojshuhfxgrjspuonxghznoehenthnohpjjtjqhoeuo
gxoengbhmusonf yusychqjynbeoa yheuqheummjgjq,hoejhgjvohquc,hugqhoej
gjvo,hjrjscxgjhzuph. pohuphqjynbeojqhuohtjjongbhenthubungk

Uaojshanyyngbhaxshoesjjhcjusphoejhmxpohxahmsjpnqjgohxahxgjhxahoej
bxrjsgtjgohixusqphuohTxpfxz,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhzxghoejhsjpmjfo,
uphzjyyhuphoejhynlngb,hxahenphajyyxz-xaanfnuyp,hp ixsqnguojp,hugq
p mjsnxsp,hugqhuyyhzexheuqheuqhi pngjpphznoehentkhOejhmsngfnmuy
w uynonjphnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzenfeheuqhbungjqhenthoenph gnrjspuy
sjpmjfohnghoejhpjsrnfjhfxgpnpojq,hnghoejhanspohmyufj,hxahenphjvosjtj
ngq ybjgfjhaxshxoejsp,hax gqjqhxghuhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahenphxzg
pexsofxtngbp;hpjfxgqyc,hxahenphmjsajfohynijsuynpt—gxohoejhynijsuynpthej
sjuqhxahnghoejhmumjsp,hi ohoejhynijsuynpthoeuohzuphnghenphiyxxq,hng
rnso jhxahzenfehejhosjuojqhuyyhtjghmjsajfoychjw uyychugqhjvufoychoej
putj,hzeuojrjshoejnshaxso gjhxshfuyyngbhtnbeohij;hugqhoensqyc—oejhtxpo
ntmxsougohmxngo—enphfxtmyjojhngqnaajsjgfjhoxhoejhi pngjpphnghzenfehej
zuphjgbubjq,hnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahzenfehejhzuphgjrjshfussnjqhuzuc,hugq
gjrjshtuqjhtnpouljpk

Xghsjufengbhoejhxaanfjphxahoejhixusq,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hjpfxsojqhic
uhqjajsjgonuyhmxsojshznoehuhmxsoaxynx,hzjgohngoxhenphynooyjhmsnruoj
sxxt,hm ohxghenph gnaxst,hugqhzjgohngoxhoejhixusqsxxtkhOejhfyjslphugq
fxmcnpophuyyhsxpj,hbsjjongbhenthznoehbxxq-e txsjqhqjajsjgfjkhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehtxrjqhw nflyc,huphjrjs,hoxhenphmyufj,hpexxlheugqphznoehenp
fxyyjub jp,hugqhpuohqxzgkhEjhtuqjhuh.xljhxshozx,hugqhouyljqh. pohup
t fehuphzuphfxgpnpojgohznoehq jhqjfxs t,hugqhijbughzxslkhGxhxgjhlgjz
ijoojshoeughPojmughUsluqcjrnofehexzhoxhenohxghoejhjvufohyngjhijozjjg
asjjqxt,hpntmynfnoc,hugqhxaanfnuyhponaagjpphgjfjppuschaxshoejhubsjjuiyj
fxgq fohxahi pngjppkhUhpjfsjousc,hznoehoejhbxxq-e txsjqhqjajsjgfj
fxttxghoxhjrjscxgjhnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phxaanfj,hfutjh mhznoe
mumjsp,hugqhijbughoxhpmjulhnghoejhautnynushugqhjupchoxgjhzenfeheuqhijjg
ngosxq fjqhichPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zjheurjhp ffjjqjqhnghbjoongbhoejhngaxstuonxghasxthoejhbxrjsgtjgo
qjmusotjgohxahMjgdukhEjsj,hzx yqhcx hfusj?kkk”

“Cx ’rjhbxohoejthuohyupo?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyucngbhenphangbjs
xghoejhmumjskh“Gxz,hbjgoyjtjgkkkk”

Ugqhoejhpnoongbhxahoejhixusqhijbugk

“Nahoejchlgjz,”hejhoex beo,hijgqngbhenphejuqhznoehuhpnbgnanfugohunshup
ejhynpojgjqhoxhoejhsjmxso,h“zeuohuhb nyochynooyjhixchoejnshmsjpnqjgo
zupheuyahughex shubxk”hUgqhenphjcjphzjsjhyu bengbhq sngbhoejhsjuqngbhxa
oejhsjmxsokhOnyyhozxhx’fyxflhoejhpnoongbhzx yqhbxhxghznoex ohuhisjul,
ugqhuohozxhx’fyxflhoejsjhzx yqhijhughngojsruyhugqhy gfejxgk

Nohzuphgxohcjohozx,hzejghoejhyusbjhbyupphqxxsphxahoejhixusqsxxt
p qqjgychxmjgjqhugqhpxtjxgjhfutjhngk

Uyyhoejhxaanfnuyphpnoongbhxghoejha soejshpnqjh gqjshoejhmxsosunohxahoej
Opushugqhoejhjubyj,hqjynbeojqhuohugchqnposufonxg,hyxxljqhsx gqhuohoej
qxxs;hi ohoejhqxxsljjmjshpougqngbhuohoejhqxxshuohxgfjhqsxrjhx ohoej
ngos qjs,hugqhfyxpjqhoejhbyupphqxxshuaojshentk

Zejghoejhfupjheuqhijjghsjuqhoesx be,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehbxoh mhugq
posjofejq,hugqhichzuchxahosni ojhoxhoejhynijsuynpthxahoejhontjphoxxl
x ohuhfnbusjoojhnghoejhixusqsxxthugqhzjgohngoxhenphmsnruojhsxxtkhOzxhxa
oejhtjtijsphxahoejhixusq,hoejhxyqhrjojsughnghoejhpjsrnfj,hGnlnong,hugq
oejh_Luttjs. gljs_hBsngjrnofe,hzjgohnghznoehentk

“Zjhpeuyyheurjhontjhoxhangnpehuaojshy gfe,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Oxhijhp sjhzjhpeuyy!”hpunqhGnlnongk

“UhmsjoochpeusmhajyyxzhoenphAxtnght pohij,”hpunqhBsngjrnofehxahxgjhxa
oejhmjspxgphoulngbhmusohnghoejhfupjhoejchzjsjhjvutngngbk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehasxzgjqhuohBsngjrnofe’phzxsqp,hbnrngbhenthoejsjic
oxh gqjspougqhoeuohnohzuphntmsxmjshoxhmupph. qbtjgohmsjtuo sjyc,hugq
tuqjhenthgxhsjmyck

“Zexhzuphoeuohfutjhng?”hejhupljqhoejhqxxsljjmjsk

“Pxtjxgj,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,hfsjmohnghznoex ohmjstnppnxghqnsjfoychtchiufl
zupho sgjqkhEjhzuphuplngbhaxshcx khNhoxyqhent:hzejghoejhtjtijsphfxtj
x o,hoejgkkkk”

“Zejsjhnphej?”

“Tucijhej’phbxgjhngoxhoejhmuppubj,hi ohejsjhejhfxtjphugczuckhOeuohnp
ej,”hpunqhoejhqxxsljjmjs,hmxngongbhoxhuhposxgbychi nyo,
isxuq-pex yqjsjqhtughznoehuhf sychijusq,hzex,hznoex ohoulngbhxaahenp
pejjmplnghfum,hzuphs ggngbhynbeoychugqhsumnqych mhoejhzxsghpojmphxahoej
poxgjhpounsfupjkhXgjhxahoejhtjtijsphbxngbhqxzg—uhyjughxaanfnuyhznoehu
mxsoaxynx—poxxqhx ohxahenphzuchugqhyxxljqhqnpummsxrngbychuohoejhyjbphxa
oejhposugbjs,hoejghbyugfjqhngw nsngbychuohXiyxgplck

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphpougqngbhuohoejhoxmhxahoejhpounspkhEnp
bxxq-guo sjqychijutngbhaufjhuixrjhoejhjtisxnqjsjqhfxyyushxahenph gnaxst
ijutjqhtxsjhoeughjrjshzejghejhsjfxbgndjqhoejhtughfxtngbh mk

“Zec,hno’phufo uyychcx ,hYjrng,huohyupo!”hejhpunqhznoehuhasnjgqyc
txflngbhptnyj,hpfuggngbhYjrnghuphejhummsxufejqkh“Exzhnphnohcx heurj
qjnbgjqhoxhyxxlhtjh mhnghoenphqjg?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhgxo
fxgojgohznoehpeulngbheugqp,hejhlnppjqhenphasnjgqkh“Eurjhcx hijjghejsj
yxgb?”

“Nheurjh. pohfxtj,hugqhrjscht fehzugojqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,
yxxlngbhpecychugqhuohoejhputjhontjhugbsnychugqh gjupnychusx gqk

“Zjyy,hyjo’phbxhngoxhtchsxxt,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhlgjzhenp
asnjgq’phpjgpnonrjhugqhnssnouiyjhpecgjpp,hugq,houlngbhenphust,hejhqsjz
enthuyxgb,huphoex behb nqngbhenthoesx behqugbjspk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphxghautnynushojstphznoehuytxpohuyyhenp
ufw ungougfjp,hugqhfuyyjqhuytxpohuyyhxahoejthichoejnshFesnponughgutjp:
xyqhtjghxahpnvoc,hixcphxahozjgoc,hufoxsp,htngnpojsp,htjsfeugop,hugq
uq. ougo-bjgjsuyp,hpxhoeuohtugchxahenphngontuojhfe tphzjsjhoxhijhax gq
uohoejhjvosjtjhjgqphxahoejhpxfnuyhyuqqjs,hugqhzx yqheurjhijjghrjscht fe
p smsnpjqhoxhyjusghoeuohoejcheuq,hoesx behoejhtjqn thxahXiyxgplc,
pxtjoengbhnghfxttxgkhEjhzuphoejhautnynushasnjgqhxahjrjscxgjhznoehzext
ejhoxxlhuhbyupphxahfeutmubgj,hugqhejhoxxlhuhbyupphxahfeutmubgjhznoe
jrjscxgj,hugqhzejghnghfxgpjw jgfjhejhtjohugchxahenphqnpsjm ouiyjhfe tp,
uphejh pjqhngh.xljhoxhfuyyhtugchxahenphasnjgqp,hnghoejhmsjpjgfjhxahenp
p ixsqnguojp,hejhzjyyhlgjzhexz,hznoehenphfeusufojsnponfhoufo,hox
qntngnpehoejhqnpubsjjuiyjhntmsjppnxghtuqjhxghoejtkhYjrnghzuphgxohu
qnpsjm ouiyjhfe t,hi ohXiyxgplc,hznoehenphsjuqchoufo,hajyohoeuohYjrng
augfnjqhejhtnbeohgxohfusjhoxhpexzhenphngontufchznoehenthijaxsjhenp
p ixsqnguojp,hugqhpxhejhtuqjheupojhoxhouljhenthxaahngoxhenphsxxtk

YjrnghzuphuytxpohxahoejhputjhubjhuphXiyxgplc;hoejnshngontufchqnqhgxo
sjpohtjsjychxghfeutmubgjkhYjrngheuqhijjghoejhasnjgqhugqhfxtmugnxghxa
enphjusychcx oekhOejchzjsjhaxgqhxahxgjhugxoejshnghpmnojhxahoej
qnaajsjgfjhxahoejnshfeusufojsphugqhoupojp,huphasnjgqphusjhaxgqhxahxgj
ugxoejshzexheurjhijjghoxbjoejshnghjusychcx oekhI ohnghpmnojhxahoenp,
jufehxahoejt—uphnphxaojghoejhzuchznoehtjghzexheurjhpjyjfojqhfusjjsphxa
qnaajsjgohlngqp—oex behnghqnpf ppnxghejhzx yqhjrjgh. ponachoejhxoejs’p
fusjjs,hnghenphejusohqjpmnpjqhnokhNohpjjtjqhoxhjufehxahoejthoeuohoej
ynajhejhyjqhentpjyahzuphoejhxgychsjuyhynaj,hugqhoejhynajhyjqhichenp
asnjgqhzuphuhtjsjhmeugouptkhXiyxgplchfx yqhgxohsjposunghuhpynbeo
txflngbhptnyjhuohoejhpnbeohxahYjrngkhExzhxaojghejheuqhpjjghenthfxtjh m
oxhTxpfxzhasxthoejhfx goschzejsjhejhzuphqxngbhpxtjoengb,hi ohzeuo
msjfnpjychPojmughUsluqcjrnofehfx yqhgjrjshw nojhtuljhx o,hugqhngqjjqhej
oxxlhgxhngojsjpohnghoejhtuoojskhYjrnghussnrjqhnghTxpfxzhuyzucphjvfnojq
ugqhnghuhe ssc,hsuoejshnyyhuohjupjhugqhnssnouojqhichenphxzghzugohxa
jupj,hugqhaxshoejhtxpohmusohznoehuhmjsajfoychgjz,h gjvmjfojqhrnjzhxa
oengbpkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehyu bejqhuohoenp,hugqhynljqhnokhNghoejhputj
zuchYjrnghnghenphejusohqjpmnpjqhoejhoxzghtxqjhxahynajhxahenphasnjgq,
ugqhenphxaanfnuyhq onjp,hzenfehejhyu bejqhuo,hugqhsjbusqjqhuphosnayngbk
I ohoejhqnaajsjgfjhzuphoeuohXiyxgplc,huphejhzuphqxngbhoejhputjhup
jrjscxgjhqnq,hyu bejqhfxtmyufjgoychugqhbxxq-e txsjqyc,hzenyjhYjrng
yu bejqhznoex ohfxtmyufjgfchugqhpxtjontjphugbsnyck

“Zjheurjhyxgbhijjghjvmjfongbhcx ,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbxngbhngox
enphsxxthugqhyjoongbhYjrng’pheugqhbxhuphoex behoxhpexzhoeuohejsjhuyy
qugbjshzuphxrjskh“Nhuthrjsc,hrjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hejhzjgohxgkh“Zjyy,
exzhusjhcx ?hJe?hZejghqnqhcx hfxtj?”

Yjrnghzuphpnyjgo,hyxxlngbhuohoejh glgxzghaufjphxahXiyxgplc’phozx
fxtmugnxgp,hugqhjpmjfnuyychuohoejheugqhxahoejhjyjbugohBsngjrnofe,hzenfe
euqhp fehyxgbhzenojhangbjsp,hp fehyxgbhcjyyxzhanyijso-peumjqhgunyp,hugq
p fehe bjhpengngbhpo qphxghoejhpenso-f aa,hoeuohummusjgoychoejc
uipxsijqhuyyhenphuoojgonxg,hugqhuyyxzjqhenthgxhasjjqxthxahoex beok
Xiyxgplchgxonfjqhoenphuohxgfj,hugqhptnyjqk

“Ue,hoxhijhp sj,hyjohtjhngosxq fjhcx ,”hejhpunqkh“Tchfxyyjub jp:hMenynm
NrugnofehGnlnong,hTneunyhPougnpyurnofehBsngjrnofe”—ugqho sgngbhox
Yjrng—“uhqnposnfohfx gfnyxs,huhtxqjsghqnposnfohfx gfnytug,huhbctgupo
zexhynaophoensojjghpoxgjhznoehxgjheugq,huhfuooyj-isjjqjshugqhpmxsoptug,
ugqhtchasnjgq,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehYjrng,hoejhisxoejshxahPjsbjc
NrugxrnofehLxdgnpejrk”

“Qjynbeojq,”hpunqhoejhrjojsugk

“Nheurjhoejhexgxshxahlgxzngbhcx shisxoejs,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,”hpunq
Bsngjrnofe,hexyqngbhx ohenphpyjgqjsheugqhznoehnophyxgbhgunypk

Yjrnghasxzgjq,hpexxlheugqphfxyqyc,hugqhuohxgfjho sgjqhoxhXiyxgplck
Oex behejheuqhuhbsjuohsjpmjfohaxshenpheuya-isxoejs,hughu oexshzjyy
lgxzghoxhuyyhS ppnu,hejhfx yqhgxohjgq sjhnohzejghmjxmyjhosjuojqhenthgxo
uphLxgpougonghYjrng,hi ohuphoejhisxoejshxahoejhfjyjisuojqhLxdgnpejrk

“Gx,hNhuthgxhyxgbjshuhqnposnfohfx gfnyxskhNheurjhw ussjyjqhznoehoejt
uyy,hugqhqxg’ohbxhoxhoejhtjjongbphugchtxsj,”hejhpunq,ho sgngbhox
Xiyxgplck

“Cx ’rjhijjghw nflhuix ohno!”hpunqhXiyxgplchznoehuhptnyjkh“I ohexz?
zec?”

“No’phuhyxgbhpoxsckhNhznyyhojyyhcx hpxtjhontj,”hpunqhYjrng,hi ohej
ijbughojyyngbhenthuohxgfjkh“Zjyy,hoxhm ohnohpexsoyc,hNhzuphfxgrngfjq
oeuohgxoengbhzuphsjuyychqxgjhichoejhqnposnfohfx gfnyp,hxshjrjshfx yq
ij,”hejhijbug,huphoex behpxtjxgjheuqh. pohngp yojqhentkh“Xghxgjhpnqj
no’phuhmyucoengb;hoejchmyuchuohijngbhuhmusynutjgo,hugqhN’thgjnoejs
cx gbhjgx behgxshxyqhjgx behoxhangqhut pjtjgohnghmyucoengbp;hugqhxghoej
xoejshpnqj”h(ejhpouttjsjq)h“no’phuhtjugphaxshoejhfxojsnjhxahoej
qnposnfohoxhtuljhtxgjckhAxstjsychoejcheuqhzusqpenmp,hfx sophxah. ponfj,
gxzhoejcheurjhoejhqnposnfohfx gfny—gxohnghoejhaxsthxahisnijp,hi ohng
oejhaxsthxah gjusgjqhpuyusc,”hejhpunq,huphexoychuphoex behpxtjxgjhxa
oexpjhmsjpjgoheuqhxmmxpjqhenphxmngnxgk

“Ueu!hCx ’sjhnghuhgjzhmeupjhubung,hNhpjj—uhfxgpjsruonrj,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofekh“Exzjrjs,hzjhfughbxhngoxhoeuohyuojsk”

“Cjp,hyuojskhI ohNhzugojqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hyxxlngbhznoeheuosjq
uohBsngjrnofe’pheugqk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehburjhuhpfusfjychmjsfjmoniyjhptnyjk

“Exzhzuphnohcx h pjqhoxhpuchcx hzx yqhgjrjshzjushJ sxmjughqsjpphubung?”
ejhpunq,hpfuggngbhenphgjzhp no,hxirnx pychf ohichuhAsjgfehounyxskh“Ue!
Nhpjj:huhgjzhmeupjk”

Yjrnghp qqjgychiy pejq,hgxohuphbsxzghtjghiy pe,hpynbeoyc,hznoex ohijngb
oejtpjyrjphuzusjhxahno,hi ohuphixcphiy pe,hajjyngbhoeuohoejchusj
snqnf yx phoesx behoejnshpecgjpp,hugqhfxgpjw jgoychupeutjqhxahnohugq
iy pengbhponyyhtxsj,huytxpohoxhoejhmxngohxahojuspkhUgqhnohzuphpx
posugbjhoxhpjjhoenphpjgpniyj,htugychaufjhnghp fehuhfenyqnpehmynbeo,
oeuohXiyxgplchyjaohxaahyxxlngbhuohentk

“Xe,hzejsjhpeuyyhzjhtjjo?hCx hlgxzhNhzugohrjscht fehoxhouylhoxhcx ,”
punqhYjrngk

Xiyxgplchpjjtjqhoxhmxgqjsk

“N’yyhojyyhcx hzeuo:hyjo’phbxhoxhB sng’phoxhy gfe,hugqhoejsjhzjhfug
ouylkhNhuthasjjhonyyhoesjjk”

“Gx,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,huaojshughngpougo’phoex beo,h“Nheurjhbxohoxhbxhxg
pxtjzejsjhjypjk”

“Uyyhsnbeo,hoejg,hyjo’phqngjhoxbjoejsk”

“Qngjhoxbjoejs?hI ohNheurjhgxoengbhrjschmusonf yus,hxgychuhajzhzxsqphox
puc,hugqhuhw jponxghNhzugohoxhuplhcx ,hugqhzjhfugheurjhuhouyl
uaojszusqpk”

“Zjyy,hpuchoejhajzhzxsqp,hoejg,huohxgfj,hugqhzj’yyhbxppnmhuaojs
qnggjsk”

“Zjyy,hno’phoenp,”hpunqhYjrng;h“i ohno’phxahgxhntmxsougfj,hoex bek”

Enphaufjhuyyhuohxgfjhoxxlhughjvmsjppnxghxahugbjshasxthoejhjaaxsohejhzup
tulngbhoxhp stx gohenphpecgjppk

“ZeuohusjhoejhPeofejsiuoplcphqxngb?hJrjscoengbhuphnoh pjqhoxhij?”hej
punqk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexheuqhyxgbhlgxzghoeuohYjrnghzuphnghyxrjhznoehenp
pnpojs-ng-yuz,hLnooc,hburjhuheusqychmjsfjmoniyjhptnyj,hugqhenphjcjp
pmuslyjqhtjssnyck

“Cx hpunqhuhajzhzxsqp,hi ohNhfug’ohugpzjshnghuhajzhzxsqp,hijfu pjkkkk
Jvf pjhtjhuhtng ojkkkk”

Uhpjfsjouschfutjhng,hznoehsjpmjfoa yhautnynusnochugqhoejhtxqjpo
fxgpfnx pgjpp,hfeusufojsnponfhxahjrjschpjfsjousc,hxahp mjsnxsnochoxhenp
fenjahnghoejhlgxzyjqbjhxahoejnshi pngjpp;hejhzjgoh mhoxhXiyxgplchznoe
pxtjhmumjsp,hugqhijbug,h gqjshmsjojgpjhxahuplngbhuhw jponxg,hoxhjvmyung
pxtjhxi.jfonxgkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoex ohejusngbhenthx o,hyunqhenp
eugqhbjgnuyychxghoejhpjfsjousc’phpyjjrjk

“Gx,hcx hqxhuphNhoxyqhcx ,”hejhpunq,hpxaojgngbhenphzxsqphznoehuhptnyj,
ugqhznoehuhisnjahjvmyuguonxghxahenphrnjzhxahoejhtuoojshejho sgjqhuzuc
asxthoejhmumjsp,hugqhpunq:h“Pxhqxhnohoeuohzuc,hnahcx hmyjupj,hDueus
Gnlnonofek”

Oejhpjfsjouschsjonsjqhnghfxga pnxgkhQ sngbhoejhfxgp youonxghznoehoej
pjfsjouschYjrngheuqhfxtmyjojychsjfxrjsjqhasxthenphjtiussupptjgokhEjhzup
pougqngbhznoehenphjyixzphxghoejhiuflhxahuhfeuns,hugqhxghenphaufjhzuphu
yxxlhxahnsxgnfuyhuoojgonxgk

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhno,hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqhno,”hejhpunqk

“Zeuohqxg’ohcx h gqjspougq?”hpunqhXiyxgplc,hptnyngbhuphisnbeoychup
jrjs,hugqhmnflngbh mhuhfnbusjoojkhEjhjvmjfojqhpxtjhw jjshx oi spohasxt
Yjrngk

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhzeuohcx husjhqxngb,”hpunqhYjrng,hpes bbngbhenp
pex yqjspkh“Exzhfughcx hqxhnohpjsnx pyc?”

“Zechgxo?”

“Zec,hijfu pjhoejsj’phgxoengbhnghnok”

“Cx hoenglhpx,hi ohzj’sjhxrjszejytjqhznoehzxslk”

“XghmumjskhI o,hoejsj,hcx ’rjhuhbnaohaxshno,”huqqjqhYjrngk

“Oeuo’phoxhpuc,hcx hoenglhoejsj’phuhyuflhxahpxtjoengbhnghtj?”

“Mjseumphpx,”hpunqhYjrngkh“I ohuyyhoejhputjhNhuqtnsjhcx shbsugqj s,hugq
uthmsx qhoeuohN’rjhuhasnjgqhnghp fehuhbsjuohmjspxgkhCx ’rjhgxohugpzjsjq
tchw jponxg,hoex be,”hejhzjgohxg,hznoehuhqjpmjsuojhjaaxsohyxxlngb
Xiyxgplchposunbeohnghoejhaufjk

“Xe,hoeuo’phuyyhrjschzjyykhCx hzunohuhino,hugqhcx ’yyhfxtjhoxhoenp
cx spjyakhNo’phrjschgnfjhaxshcx hoxheurjhxrjshpnvhoex pugqhufsjphnghoej
Lusudngplchqnposnfo,hugqhp feht pfyjp,hugqhoejhasjpegjpphxahuhbnsyhxa
ozjyrj;hponyyhcx ’yyhijhxgjhxah phxgjhquckhCjp,huphoxhcx shw jponxg,
oejsjhnphgxhfeugbj,hi ohno’phuhmnochcx ’rjhijjghuzuchpxhyxgbk”

“Xe,hzechpx?”hYjrnghw jsnjq,hmugnf-posnfljgk

“Xe,hgxoengb,”hsjpmxgqjqhXiyxgplckh“Zj’yyhouylhnohxrjskhI ohzeuo’p
isx beohcx h mhoxhoxzg?”

“Xe,hzj’yyhouylhuix ohoeuo,hoxx,hyuojshxg,”hpunqhYjrng,hsjqqjgngbhubung
 mhoxhenphjuspk

“UyyhsnbeokhNhpjj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Nhpex yqhuplhcx hoxhfxtj
oxh p,hcx hlgxz,hi ohtchznaj’phgxohw nojhoejhoengbkhI ohNhojyyhcx 
zeuo;hnahcx hzugohoxhpjjhoejt,hoejc’sjhp sjhgxzhoxhijhuohoejhDxxyxbnfuy
Busqjgphasxthax shoxhanrjkhLnoochpluojpkhCx hqsnrjhuyxgbhoejsj,hugq
N’yyhfxtjhugqhajofehcx ,hugqhzj’yyhbxhugqhqngjhpxtjzejsjhoxbjoejsk”

“FumnouykhPxhbxxq-icjhonyyhoejgk”

“Gxzhtngq,hcx ’yyhaxsbjo,hNhlgxzhcx ,hxshs pehxaahextjhoxhoejhfx gosc!”
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfuyyjqhx ohyu bengbk

“Gx,hos yc!”

UgqhYjrnghzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxt,hxgychzejghejhzuphnghoejhqxxszuc
sjtjtijsngbhoeuohejheuqhaxsbxoojghoxhouljhyjurjhxahXiyxgplc’p
fxyyjub jpk

“Oeuohbjgoyjtught pohijhuhtughxahbsjuohjgjsbc,”hpunqhBsngjrnofe,hzejg
Yjrngheuqhbxgjhuzuck

“Cjp,htchqjushixc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hgxqqngbhenphejuq,h“ej’phu
y flchajyyxz!hXrjshpnvhoex pugqhufsjphnghoejhLusudngplchqnposnfo;
jrjscoengbhijaxsjhent;hugqhzeuohcx oehugqhrnbxs!hGxohynljhpxtjhxah pk”

“Cx heurjhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhfxtmyunghxa,heurjg’ohcx ,hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe?”

“Ue,hcjp,hN’thnghuhmxxshzuc,huhiuqhzuc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoe
uhejurchpnbek


Feumojsh6

ZejghXiyxgplchupljqhYjrnghzeuoheuqhisx beohenthoxhoxzg,hYjrnghiy pejq,
ugqhzupha snx phznoehentpjyahaxshiy pengb,hijfu pjhejhfx yqhgxohugpzjs,
“Nheurjhfxtjhoxhtuljhcx shpnpojs-ng-yuzhughxaajs,”hoex behoeuohzup
msjfnpjychzeuohejheuqhfxtjhaxsk

OejhautnynjphxahoejhYjrngphugqhoejhPeofejsiuoplcphzjsjhxyq,hgxiyj
Txpfxzhautnynjp,hugqheuqhuyzucphijjghxghngontuojhugqhasnjgqychojstpk
Oenphngontufcheuqhbsxzghponyyhfyxpjshq sngbhYjrng’phpo qjgohqucpkhEj
euqhixoehmsjmusjqhaxshoejh gnrjspnochznoehoejhcx gbhMsngfj
Peofejsiuoplc,hoejhisxoejshxahLnoochugqhQxyyc,hugqheuqhjgojsjqhuohoej
putjhontjhznoehentkhNghoexpjhqucphYjrngh pjqhxaojghoxhijhnghoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hex pj,hugqhejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehoejhPeofejsiuoplc
ex pjexyqkhPosugbjhuphnohtuchummjus,hnohzuphznoehoejhex pjexyq,hoej
autnyc,hoeuohLxgpougonghYjrnghzuphnghyxrj,hjpmjfnuyychznoehoejhajtngngj
euyahxahoejhex pjexyqkhYjrnghqnqhgxohsjtjtijshenphxzghtxoejs,hugqhenp
xgychpnpojshzuphxyqjshoeughejhzup,hpxhoeuohnohzuphnghoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hex pjhoeuohejhpuzhaxshoejhanspohontjhoeuohnggjshynajhxa
ughxyq,hgxiyj,hf yonruojq,hugqhexgxsuiyjhautnychxahzenfehejheuqhijjg
qjmsnrjqhichoejhqjuoehxahenphauoejshugqhtxoejskhUyyhoejhtjtijsphxahoeuo
autnyc,hjpmjfnuyychoejhajtngngjheuya,hzjsjhmnfo sjqhichent,huphnohzjsj,
zsummjqhuix ohznoehuhtcpojsnx phmxjonfuyhrjny,hugqhejhgxohxgyc
mjsfjnrjqhgxhqjajfophzeuojrjshnghoejt,hi oh gqjshoejhmxjonfuyhrjnyhoeuo
pesx qjqhoejthejhupp tjqhoejhjvnpojgfjhxahoejhyxaonjpohpjgontjgophugq
jrjschmxppniyjhmjsajfonxgkhZechnohzuphoejhoesjjhcx gbhyuqnjpheuqhxgj
quchoxhpmjulhAsjgfe,hugqhoejhgjvohJgbynpe;hzechnohzuphoeuohuohfjsoung
ex sphoejchmyucjqhicho sgphxghoejhmnugx,hoejhpx gqphxahzenfehzjsj
u qniyjhnghoejnshisxoejs’phsxxthuixrj,hzejsjhoejhpo qjgoph pjqhoxhzxsl;
zechoejchzjsjhrnpnojqhichoexpjhmsxajppxsphxahAsjgfehynojsuo sj,hxa
t pnf,hxahqsuzngb,hxahqugfngb;hzechuohfjsounghex sphuyyhoejhoesjjhcx gb
yuqnjp,hznoehTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxg,hqsxrjhnghoejhfxufehoxhoejhOrjsplc
ix yjrusq,hqsjppjqhnghoejnshpuonghfyxulp,hQxyychnghuhyxgbhxgj,hGuouynu
nghuheuya-yxgbhxgj,hugqhLnoochnghxgjhpxhpexsohoeuohejshpeumjychyjbphng
onbeoyc-qsuzghsjqhpoxflngbphzjsjhrnpniyjhoxhuyyhijexyqjsp;hzechnohzup
oejcheuqhoxhzuylhuix ohoejhOrjsplchix yjrusqhjpfxsojqhichuhaxxotughznoe
uhbxyqhfxfluqjhnghenpheuo—uyyhoenphugqht fehtxsjhoeuohzuphqxgjhnghoejns
tcpojsnx phzxsyqhejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougq,hi ohejhzuphp sjhoeuohjrjscoengb
oeuohzuphqxgjhoejsjhzuphrjschbxxq,hugqhejhzuphnghyxrjhmsjfnpjychznoe
oejhtcpojschxahoejhmsxfjjqngbpk

Nghenphpo qjgohqucphejheuqhuyyhi ohijjghnghyxrjhznoehoejhjyqjpo,hQxyyc,
i ohpejhzuphpxxghtussnjqhoxhXiyxgplckhOejghejhijbughijngbhnghyxrjhznoe
oejhpjfxgqkhEjhajyo,huphnohzjsj,hoeuohejheuqhoxhijhnghyxrjhznoehxgjhxa
oejhpnpojsp,hxgychejhfx yqhgxohw nojhtuljhx ohzenfekhI ohGuouynu,hoxx,
euqheusqychtuqjhejshummjusugfjhnghoejhzxsyqhzejghpejhtussnjqhoej
qnmyxtuohYrxrkhLnoochzuphponyyhuhfenyqhzejghYjrnghyjaohoejh gnrjspnock
Cx gbhPeofejsiuoplchzjgohngoxhoejhgurc,hzuphqsxzgjqhnghoejhIuyonf,hugq
Yjrng’phsjyuonxgphznoehoejhPeofejsiuoplcp,hnghpmnojhxahenphasnjgqpenm
znoehXiyxgplc,hijfutjhyjpphngontuojkhI ohzejghjusychnghoejhzngojshxa
oenphcjushYjrnghfutjhoxhTxpfxz,huaojshuhcjushnghoejhfx gosc,hugqhpuz
oejhPeofejsiuoplcp,hejhsjuyndjqhzenfehxahoejhoesjjhpnpojsphejhzup
ngqjjqhqjpongjqhoxhyxrjk

Xgjhzx yqheurjhoex beohoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhijhpntmyjshoeughaxshent,hu
tughxahbxxqhautnyc,hsuoejshsnfehoeughmxxs,hugqhoensoc-ozxhcjusphxyq,hox
tuljhoejhcx gbhMsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucuhughxaajshxahtussnubj;hnghuyy
ynljynexxqhejhzx yqhuohxgfjheurjhijjghyxxljqh mxghuphuhbxxqhtuofekhI o
Yjrnghzuphnghyxrj,hugqhpxhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohLnoochzuphpxhmjsajfohng
jrjschsjpmjfohoeuohpejhzuphuhfsjuo sjhaushuixrjhjrjscoengbhjusoeyc;hugq
oeuohejhzuphuhfsjuo sjhpxhyxzhugqhpxhjusoeychoeuohnohfx yqhgxohjrjghij
fxgfjnrjqhoeuohxoejshmjxmyjhugqhpejhejspjyahfx yqhsjbusqhenthuphzxsoec
xahejsk

UaojshpmjgqngbhozxhtxgoephnghTxpfxzhnghuhpouojhxahjgfeugotjgo,hpjjngb
Lnoochuytxpohjrjschquchnghpxfnjoc,hngoxhzenfehejhzjgohpxhuphoxhtjjo
ejs,hejhuis moychqjfnqjqhoeuohnohfx yqhgxohij,hugqhzjgohiuflhoxhoej
fx gosck

Yjrng’phfxgrnfonxghoeuohnohfx yqhgxohijhzuphax gqjqhxghoejhnqjuhoeuohng
oejhjcjphxahejshautnychejhzuphuhqnpuqrugoubjx phugqhzxsoeyjpphtuofehaxs
oejhfeustngbhLnooc,hugqhoeuohLnoochejspjyahfx yqhgxohyxrjhentkhNghejs
autnyc’phjcjphejheuqhgxhxsqngusc,hqjangnojhfusjjshugqhmxpnonxghng
pxfnjoc,hzenyjhenphfxgojtmxsusnjphichoenphontj,hzejghejhzuphoensoc-ozx,
zjsjhuysjuqc,hxgjhuhfxyxgjy,hugqhugxoejshuhmsxajppxs,hugxoejshqnsjfoxs
xahuhiuglhugqhsunyzucp,hxshmsjpnqjgohxahuhixusqhynljhXiyxgplckhI ohej
(ejhlgjzhrjschzjyyhexzhejht pohummjushoxhxoejsp)hzuphuhfx gosc
bjgoyjtug,hxff mnjqhnghisjjqngbhfuooyj,hpexxongbhbutj,hugqhi nyqngb
iusgp;hnghxoejshzxsqp,huhajyyxzhxahgxhuinynoc,hzexheuqhgxoho sgjqhx o
zjyy,hugqhzexhzuphqxngbh. pohzeuo,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhnqjuphxahoejhzxsyq,
nphqxgjhichmjxmyjhanohaxshgxoengbhjypjk

Oejhtcpojsnx p,hjgfeugongbhLnoochejspjyahfx yqhgxohyxrjhp fehugh byc
mjspxghuphejhfxgfjnrjqhentpjyahoxhij,hugq,huixrjhuyy,hp fehughxsqngusc,
nghgxhzuchposnlngbhmjspxgkhTxsjxrjs,henphuoono qjhoxhLnoochnghoej
mupo—oejhuoono qjhxahuhbsxzg- mhmjspxghoxhuhfenyq,husnpngbhasxthenp
asnjgqpenmhznoehejshisxoejs—pjjtjqhoxhenthcjohugxoejshxipoufyjhoxhyxrjk
Ugh byc,hbxxq-guo sjqhtug,huphejhfxgpnqjsjqhentpjya,htnbeo,hej
p mmxpjq,hijhynljqhuphuhasnjgq;hi ohoxhijhyxrjqhznoehp fehuhyxrjhup
oeuohznoehzenfehejhyxrjqhLnooc,hxgjhzx yqhgjjqhoxhijhuheugqpxtjhugq,
ponyyhtxsj,huhqnpongb npejqhtugk

Ejheuqhejusqhoeuohzxtjghxaojghqnqhfusjhaxsh bychugqhxsqnguschtjg,hi o
ejhqnqhgxohijynjrjhno,haxshejh. qbjqhichentpjya,hugqhejhfx yqhgxo
entpjyaheurjhyxrjqhugchi ohiju ona y,htcpojsnx p,hugqhjvfjmonxguy
zxtjgk

I ohuaojshpmjgqngbhozxhtxgoephuyxgjhnghoejhfx gosc,hejhzuphfxgrngfjq
oeuohoenphzuphgxohxgjhxahoexpjhmuppnxgphxahzenfehejheuqheuqhjvmjsnjgfj
nghenphjusychcx oe;hoeuohoenphajjyngbhburjhenthgxohughngpougo’phsjpo;
oeuohejhfx yqhgxohynrjhznoex ohqjfnqngbhoejhw jponxg,hzx yqhpejhxs
zx yqhpejhgxohijhenphznaj,hugqhoeuohenphqjpmunsheuqhusnpjghxgychasxt
enphxzghntubngngbp,hoeuohejheuqhgxhpxsohxahmsxxahoeuohejhzx yqhij
sj.jfojqkhUgqhejheuqhgxzhfxtjhoxhTxpfxzhznoehuhansthqjojstnguonxghox
tuljhughxaajs,hugqhbjohtussnjqhnahejhzjsjhuffjmojqkhXshkkkhejhfx yqhgxo
fxgfjnrjhzeuohzx yqhijfxtjhxahenthnahejhzjsjhsj.jfojqk


Feumojsh7

XghussnrngbhnghTxpfxzhichuhtxsgngbhosung,hYjrngheuqhm oh mhuohoejhex pj
xahenphjyqjsheuya-isxoejs,hLxdgnpejrkhUaojshfeugbngbhenphfyxoejphej
zjgohqxzghoxhenphisxoejs’phpo qc,hngojgqngbhoxhouylhoxhenthuohxgfj
uix ohoejhxi.jfohxahenphrnpno,hugqhoxhuplhenphuqrnfj;hi ohenphisxoejs
zuphgxohuyxgjkhZnoehenthoejsjhzuphuhzjyy-lgxzghmsxajppxshxahmenyxpxmec,
zexheuqhfxtjhasxthEuslxrhjvmsjppychoxhfyjush mhuhqnaajsjgfjhoeuoheuq
usnpjghijozjjghoejthxghuhrjschntmxsougohmenyxpxmenfuyhw jponxgkhOej
msxajppxshzuphfusscngbhxghuhexohfs puqjhubungpohtuojsnuynpopkhPjsbjc
Lxdgnpejrheuqhijjghaxyyxzngbhoenphfs puqjhznoehngojsjpo,hugqhuaojs
sjuqngbhoejhmsxajppxs’phyupohusonfyj,hejheuqhzsnoojghenthuhyjoojs
pouongbhenphxi.jfonxgpkhEjhuff pjqhoejhmsxajppxshxahtulngbhoxxhbsjuo
fxgfjppnxgphoxhoejhtuojsnuynpopkhUgqhoejhmsxajppxsheuqhmsxtmoyc
ummjusjqhoxhusb jhoejhtuoojshx okhOejhmxngohnghqnpf ppnxghzuphoej
w jponxghoejghnghrxb j:hNphoejsjhuhyngjhoxhijhqsuzghijozjjg
mpcfexyxbnfuyhugqhmecpnxyxbnfuyhmejgxtjguhnghtug?hugqhnahpx,hzejsj?

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehtjohenphisxoejshznoehoejhptnyjhxahfenyychasnjgqyngjpp
ejhuyzucpheuqhaxshjrjscxgj,hugqhngosxq fngbhenthoxhoejhmsxajppxs,hzjgo
xghznoehoejhfxgrjspuonxgk

Uhynooyjhtughnghpmjfoufyjp,hznoehuhgussxzhaxsjejuq,hoxsjhentpjyahasxt
oejhqnpf ppnxghaxshughngpougohoxhbsjjohYjrng,hugqhoejghzjgohxghouylngb
znoex ohmucngbhugcha soejshuoojgonxghoxhentkhYjrnghpuohqxzghoxhzuno
onyyhoejhmsxajppxshpex yqhbx,hi ohejhpxxghijbughoxhbjohngojsjpojqhng
oejhp i.jfoh gqjshqnpf ppnxgk

Yjrngheuqhfxtjhufsxpphoejhtubudngjhusonfyjphuix ohzenfehoejchzjsj
qnpm ongb,hugqheuqhsjuqhoejt,hngojsjpojqhnghoejthuphuhqjrjyxmtjgohxa
oejhanspohmsngfnmyjphxahpfnjgfj,hautnynushoxhenthuphuhguo suyhpfnjgfj
po qjgohuohoejh gnrjspnockhI ohejheuqhgjrjshfxggjfojqhoejpjhpfnjgonanf
qjq fonxgphuphoxhoejhxsnbnghxahtughuphughugntuy,huphoxhsjayjvhufonxg,
inxyxbc,hugqhpxfnxyxbc,hznoehoexpjhw jponxgphuphoxhoejhtjugngbhxahynaj
ugqhqjuoehoxhentpjya,hzenfeheuqhxahyuojhijjghtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojghnghenp
tngqk

Uphejhynpojgjqhoxhenphisxoejs’phusb tjgohznoehoejhmsxajppxs,hejhgxonfjq
oeuohoejchfxggjfojqhoejpjhpfnjgonanfhw jponxgphznoehoexpjhpmnsno uy
msxiyjtp,hoeuohuohontjphoejchuytxpohox fejqhxghoejhyuoojs;hi ohjrjsc
ontjhoejchzjsjhfyxpjh mxghzeuohpjjtjqhoxhenthoejhfenjahmxngo,hoejc
msxtmoychijuohuheupochsjosjuo,hugqhmy gbjqhubunghngoxhuhpjuhxahp ioyj
qnpongfonxgp,hsjpjsruonxgp,hw xouonxgp,huyy pnxgp,hugqhummjuyphox
u oexsnonjp,hugqhnohzuphznoehqnaanf yochoeuohejh gqjspoxxqhzeuohoejc
zjsjhouylngbhuix ok

“Nhfuggxohuqtnohno,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hznoehenpheuino uy
fyjusgjpp,hmsjfnpnxghxahjvmsjppnxg,hugqhjyjbugfjhxahmesupjkh“Nhfuggxo
nghugchfupjhubsjjhznoehLjnpphoeuohtchzexyjhfxgfjmonxghxahoejhjvojsguy
zxsyqheuphijjghqjsnrjqhasxthmjsfjmonxgpkhOejhtxpoha gqutjgouyhnqju,hoej
nqjuhxahjvnpojgfj,heuphgxohijjghsjfjnrjqhichtjhoesx behpjgpuonxg;
ngqjjq,hoejsjhnphgxhpmjfnuyhpjgpj-xsbughaxshoejhosugptnppnxghxahp fehug
nqjuk”

“Cjp,hi ohoejc—Z so,hugqhLgu po,hugqhMsnmupxr—zx yqhugpzjshoeuohcx s
fxgpfnx pgjpphxahjvnpojgfjhnphqjsnrjqhasxthoejhfxg. gfonxghxahuyyhcx s
pjgpuonxgp,hoeuohoeuohfxgpfnx pgjpphxahjvnpojgfjhnphoejhsjp yohxahcx s
pjgpuonxgpkhZ so,hngqjjq,hpucphmyungychoeuo,hupp tngbhoejsjhusjhgx
pjgpuonxgp,hnohaxyyxzphoeuohoejsjhnphgxhnqjuhxahjvnpojgfjk”

“Nhtungounghoejhfxgosusc,”hijbughPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

I ohejsjhnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuoh. pohuphoejchzjsjhfyxpjh mxghoejhsjuy
mxngohxahoejhtuoojs,hoejchzjsjhubunghsjosjuongb,hugqhejhtuqjh mhenp
tngqhoxhm ohuhw jponxghoxhoejhmsxajppxsk

“Uffxsqngbhoxhoeuo,hnahtchpjgpjphusjhuggnenyuojq,hnahtchixqchnphqjuq,hN
fugheurjhgxhjvnpojgfjhxahugchpxso?”hejhw jsnjqk

Oejhmsxajppxs,hnghuggxcugfj,hugq,huphnohzjsj,htjgouyhp aajsngbhuohoej
ngojss monxg,hyxxljqhsx gqhuohoejhposugbjhngw nsjs,htxsjhynljhu
iusbjtughoeughuhmenyxpxmejs,hugqho sgjqhenphjcjph mxghPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,huphoex behoxhupl:hZeuo’phxgjhoxhpuchoxhent?hI ohPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hzexheuqhijjghouylngbhznoehaushyjpphejuohugqhxgj-pnqjqgjpp
oeughoejhmsxajppxs,hugqhzexheuqhp aanfnjgohisjuqoehxahtngqhoxhugpzjs
oejhmsxajppxs,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhoxhfxtmsjejgqhoejhpntmyjhugq
guo suyhmxngohxahrnjzhasxthzenfehoejhw jponxghzuphm o,hptnyjqhugqhpunq:

“Oeuohw jponxghzjheurjhgxhsnbeohoxhugpzjshuphcjok”

“Zjheurjhgxohoejhsjw npnojhquou,”hfentjqhnghoejhmsxajppxs,hugqhejhzjgo
iuflhoxhenphusb tjgokh“Gx,”hejhpunq;h“Nhzx yqhmxngohx ohoejhaufohoeuo
na,huphMsnmupxrhqnsjfoychuppjsop,hmjsfjmonxghnphiupjqhxghpjgpuonxg,
oejghzjhusjhix gqhoxhqnpongb npehpeusmychijozjjghoejpjhozx
fxgfjmonxgpk”

Yjrnghynpojgjqhgxhtxsj,hugqhpntmychzunojqhaxshoejhmsxajppxshoxhbxk


Feumojsh8

Zejghoejhmsxajppxsheuqhbxgj,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofeho sgjqhoxhenphisxoejsk

“Qjynbeojqhoeuohcx ’rjhfxtjkhAxshpxtjhontj,hnphno?hExz’phcx shaustngb
bjoongbhxg?”

Yjrnghlgjzhoeuohenphjyqjshisxoejshoxxlhynooyjhngojsjpohnghaustngb,hugq
xgychm ohoejhw jponxghnghqjajsjgfjhoxhent,hugqhpxhejhxgychoxyqhent
uix ohoejhpuyjhxahenphzejuohugqhtxgjchtuoojspk

Yjrngheuqhtjugohoxhojyyhenphisxoejshxahenphqjojstnguonxghoxhbjo
tussnjq,hugqhoxhuplhenphuqrnfj;hejheuqhngqjjqhanstychsjpxyrjqhoxhqxhpxk
I ohuaojshpjjngbhenphisxoejs,hynpojgngbhoxhenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehoej
msxajppxs,hejusngbhuaojszusqphoejh gfxgpfnx pychmuosxgndngbhoxgjhng
zenfehenphisxoejshw jponxgjqhenthuix ohubsnf yo suyhtuoojsph(oejns
txoejs’phmsxmjsocheuqhgxohijjghqnrnqjq,hugqhYjrnghoxxlhfeusbjhxahixoe
oejnshpeusjp),hYjrnghajyohoeuohejhfx yqhgxohaxshpxtjhsjupxghijbnghox
ouylhoxhenthxahenphngojgonxghxahtusscngbkhEjhajyohoeuohenphisxoejs
zx yqhgxohyxxlhuohnohuphejhzx yqheurjhznpejqhenthoxk

“Zjyy,hexzhnphcx shqnposnfohfx gfnyhqxngb?”hupljqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
zexhzuphbsjuoychngojsjpojqhnghoejpjhyxfuyhixusqphugqhuooufejqhbsjuo
ntmxsougfjhoxhoejtk

“Nhsjuyychqxg’ohlgxzk”

“Zeuo!hZec,hp sjychcx ’sjhuhtjtijshxahoejhixusq?”

“Gx,hN’thgxohuhtjtijshgxz;hN’rjhsjpnbgjq,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,h“ugqhNhgx
yxgbjshuoojgqhoejhtjjongbpk”

“Zeuohuhmnoc!”hfxttjgojqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hasxzgngbk

Yjrnghnghpjya-qjajgpjhijbughoxhqjpfsnijhzeuohoxxlhmyufjhnghoejhtjjongbp
nghenphqnposnfok

“Oeuo’phexzhnohuyzucphnp!”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehngojss mojqhentkh“Zj
S ppnugphusjhuyzucphynljhoeuokhMjseumphno’phx shposxgbhmxngo,hsjuyyc,
oejhauf yochxahpjjngbhx shxzghpexsofxtngbp;hi ohzjhxrjsqxhno,hzj
fxtaxsohx spjyrjphznoehnsxgchzenfehzjhuyzucpheurjhxghoejhonmhxahx s
oxgb jpkhUyyhNhpuchnp,hbnrjhp fehsnbeophuphx shyxfuyhpjya-bxrjsgtjgohox
ugchxoejshJ sxmjughmjxmyj—zec,hoejhBjstugphxshoejhJgbynpehzx yqheurj
zxsljqhoejnshzuchoxhasjjqxthasxthoejt,hzenyjhzjhpntmycho sghoejthngox
snqnf yjk”

“I ohexzhfughnohijhejymjq?”hpunqhYjrnghmjgnojgoyckh“Nohzuphtchyupo
jaaxsokhUgqhNhqnqhoschznoehuyyhtchpx ykhNhfug’okhN’thgxhbxxqhuohnok”

“No’phgxohoeuohcx ’sjhgxhbxxqhuohno,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe;h“nohnp
oeuohcx hqxg’ohyxxlhuohnohuphcx hpex yqk”

“Mjseumphgxo,”hYjrnghugpzjsjqhqj.jfojqyck

“Xe!hqxhcx hlgxzhisxoejshGnlxyuc’pho sgjqh mhubung?”

OenphisxoejshGnlxyuchzuphoejhjyqjshisxoejshxahLxgpougonghYjrng,hugq
euya-isxoejshxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofe;huhtugh oojsychs ngjq,hzexheuq
qnppnmuojqhoejhbsjuojshmusohxahenphaxso gj,hzuphynrngbhnghoejhposugbjpo
ugqhyxzjpohfxtmugc,hugqheuqhw ussjyjqhznoehenphisxoejspk

“Zeuohqnqhcx hpuc?”hYjrnghfsnjqhznoehexssxskh“Exzhqxhcx hlgxz?”

“Msxlxachpuzhenthnghoejhposjjok”

“EjsjhnghTxpfxz?hZejsjhnphej?hQxhcx hlgxz?”hYjrnghbxoh mhasxthenp
feuns,huphoex behxghoejhmxngohxahpousongbhxaahuohxgfjk

“NhuthpxsschNhoxyqhcx ,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hpeulngbhenphejuqhuo
enphcx gbjshisxoejs’phjvfnojtjgokh“Nhpjgohoxhangqhx ohzejsjhejhnp
ynrngb,hugqhpjgohenthenphNX hoxhOs ing,hzenfehNhmunqkhOenphnphoej
ugpzjshejhpjgohtjk”

UgqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehoxxlhuhgxojhasxth gqjshuhmumjs-zjnbeohugqheugqjq
nohoxhenphisxoejsk

Yjrnghsjuqhnghoejhw jjs,hautnynusheugqzsnongb:h“Nhe tiychijbhcx hox
yjurjhtjhnghmjufjkhOeuo’phoejhxgychaurxshNhuplhxahtchbsufnx p
isxoejspk—GnlxyuchYjrngk”

Yjrnghsjuqhno,hugqhznoex ohsunpngbhenphejuqhpoxxqhznoehoejhgxojhnghenp
eugqphxmmxpnojhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

Oejsjhzuphuhpos bbyjhnghenphejusohijozjjghoejhqjpnsjhoxhaxsbjohenp
 geummchisxoejshaxshoejhontj,hugqhoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphoeuohnohzx yqhij
iupjhoxhqxhpxk

“Ejhxirnx pychzugophoxhxaajgqhtj,”hm sp jqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe;h“i ohej
fuggxohxaajgqhtj,hugqhNhpex yqheurjhznpejqhznoehuyyhtchejusohoxhuppnpo
ent,hi ohNhlgxzhno’phntmxppniyjhoxhqxhoeuok”

“Cjp,hcjp,”hsjmjuojqhYjrngkh“Nh gqjspougqhugqhummsjfnuojhcx shuoono qj
oxhent;hi ohNhpeuyyhbxhugqhpjjhentk”

“Nahcx hzugohox,hqx;hi ohNhpex yqg’ohuqrnpjhno,”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofekh“Uphsjbusqphtcpjya,hNheurjhgxhajushxahcx shqxngbhpx;hej
znyyhgxohtuljhcx hw ussjyhznoehtj;hi ohaxshcx shxzghpulj,hNhpex yqhpuc
cx hzx yqhqxhijoojshgxohoxhbxkhCx hfug’ohqxhenthugchbxxq;hponyy,hqxhup
cx hmyjupjk”

“RjschynljychNhfug’ohqxhugchbxxq,hi ohNhajjy—jpmjfnuyychuohp fehu
txtjgo—i ohoeuo’phugxoejshoengb—NhajjyhNhfx yqhgxohijhuohmjufjk”

“Zjyy,hoeuohNhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“XgjhoengbhN
qxh gqjspougq,”hejhuqqjq;h“no’phuhyjppxghnghe tnynockhNheurjhfxtjhox
yxxlhrjschqnaajsjgoychugqhtxsjhfeusnouiychxghzeuohnphfuyyjqhngautx p
pngfjhisxoejshGnlxyucheuphijfxtjhzeuohejhnphkkkhcx hlgxzhzeuohej
qnqkkkk”

“Xe,hno’phuza y,huza y!”hsjmjuojqhYjrngk

Uaojshxioungngbhenphisxoejs’phuqqsjpphasxthPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phaxxotug,
Yjrnghzuphxghoejhmxngohxahpjoongbhxaahuohxgfjhoxhpjjhent,hi ohxghpjfxgq
oex beohejhqjfnqjqhoxhm ohxaahenphrnpnohonyyhoejhjrjgngbkhOejhanspo
oengbhoxhqxhoxhpjohenphejusohuohsjpohzuphoxhuffxtmynpehzeuohejheuqhfxtj
oxhTxpfxzhaxskhAsxthenphisxoejs’phYjrnghzjgohoxhXiyxgplc’phxaanfj,hugq
xghbjoongbhgjzphxahoejhPeofejsiuoplcphasxthent,hejhqsxrjhoxhoejhmyufj
zejsjhejheuqhijjghoxyqhejhtnbeohangqhLnoock


Feumojsh9

Uohax shx’fyxfl,hfxgpfnx phxahenphoesxiingbhejuso,hYjrnghpojmmjqhx ohxa
uhensjqhpyjqbjhuohoejhDxxyxbnfuyhBusqjgp,hugqho sgjqhuyxgbhoejhmuoehox
oejhasxdjghtx gqphugqhoejhpluongbhbsx gq,hlgxzngbhoeuohejhzx yq
fjsoungychangqhejshoejsj,huphejheuqhpjjghoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hfussnubj
uohoejhjgosugfjk

Nohzuphuhisnbeo,hasxpochquckhSxzphxahfussnubjp,hpyjqbjp,hqsnrjsp,hugq
mxynfjtjghzjsjhpougqngbhnghoejhummsxufekhFsxzqphxahzjyy-qsjppjqhmjxmyj,
znoeheuophisnbeohnghoejhp g,hpzustjqhuix ohoejhjgosugfjhugqhuyxgbhoej
zjyy-pzjmohynooyjhmuoephijozjjghoejhynooyjhex pjphuqxsgjqhznoehfusrngb
nghoejhS ppnughpocyjkhOejhxyqhf sychinsfejphxahoejhbusqjgp,huyyhoejns
oznbphyuqjghznoehpgxz,hyxxljqhuphoex behasjpeychqjfljqhnghpufsjq
rjpotjgopk

Ejhzuyljqhuyxgbhoejhmuoehoxzusqphoejhpluongb-bsx gq,hugqhljmohpucngbhox
entpjya—“Cx ht pog’ohijhjvfnojq,hcx ht pohijhfuytkhZeuo’phoejhtuoojs
znoehcx ?hZeuohqxhcx hzugo?hIjhw njo,hpo mnq,”hejhfxg. sjqhenphejusok
Ugqhoejhtxsjhejhosnjqhoxhfxtmxpjhentpjya,hoejhtxsjhisjuoeyjpphejhax gq
entpjyakhUghufw ungougfjhtjohenthugqhfuyyjqhenthichenphgutj,hi ohYjrng
qnqhgxohjrjghsjfxbgndjhentkhEjhzjgohoxzusqphoejhtx gqp,hzejgfjhfutjhoej
fyuglhxahoejhfeungphxahpyjqbjphuphoejchpynmmjqhqxzghxshzjsjhqsubbjqh m,
oejhs tiyjhxahoejhpynqngbhpyjqbjp,hugqhoejhpx gqphxahtjsschrxnfjpkhEj
zuyljqhxghuhajzhpojmp,hugqhoejhpluongb-bsx gqhyuchxmjghijaxsjhenphjcjp,
ugqhuohxgfj,hutnqpohuyyhoejhpluojsp,hejhlgjzhejsk

Ejhlgjzhpejhzuphoejsjhichoejhsumo sjhugqhoejhojssxshoeuohpjndjqhxghenp
ejusokhPejhzuphpougqngbhouylngbhoxhuhyuqchuohoejhxmmxpnojhjgqhxahoej
bsx gqkhOejsjhzuphummusjgoychgxoengbhposnlngbhjnoejshnghejshqsjpphxs
ejshuoono qjkhI ohaxshYjrnghpejhzuphuphjupchoxhangqhnghoeuohfsxzqhuphu
sxpjhutxgbhgjooyjpkhJrjscoengbhzuphtuqjhisnbeohichejskhPejhzuphoej
ptnyjhoeuohpejqhynbeohxghuyyhsx gqhejskh“NphnohmxppniyjhNhfughbxhxrjs
oejsjhxghoejhnfj,hbxh mhoxhejs?”hejhoex beokhOejhmyufjhzejsjhpejhpoxxq
pjjtjqhoxhenthuhexychpesngj,h gummsxufeuiyj,hugqhoejsjhzuphxgjhtxtjgo
zejghejhzuphuytxpohsjosjuongb,hpxhxrjszejytjqhzuphejhznoehojssxskhEj
euqhoxhtuljhughjaaxsohoxhtupojshentpjya,hugqhoxhsjtngqhentpjyahoeuo
mjxmyjhxahuyyhpxsophzjsjhtxrngbhuix ohejs,hugqhoeuohejhoxxhtnbeohfxtj
oejsjhoxhpluojkhEjhzuyljqhqxzg,haxshuhyxgbhzenyjhurxnqngbhyxxlngbhuo
ejshuphuohoejhp g,hi ohpjjngbhejs,huphxgjhqxjphoejhp g,hznoex o
yxxlngbk

Xghoeuohquchxahoejhzjjlhugqhuohoeuohontjhxahquchmjxmyjhxahxgjhpjo,huyy
ufw ungojqhznoehxgjhugxoejs,h pjqhoxhtjjohxghoejhnfjkhOejsjhzjsjhfsufl
pluojsphoejsj,hpexzngbhxaahoejnshplnyy,hugqhyjusgjsphfyngbngbhoxhfeunsp
znoehontnq,huzlzusqhtxrjtjgop,hixcp,hugqhjyqjsychmjxmyjhpluongbhznoe
ecbnjgnfhtxonrjpkhOejchpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghughjyjfohiugqhxahiynppa yhijngbp
ijfu pjhoejchzjsjhejsj,hgjushejskhUyyhoejhpluojsp,hnohpjjtjq,hznoe
mjsajfohpjya-mxppjppnxg,hpluojqhoxzusqphejs,hpluojqhichejs,hjrjghpmxlj
oxhejs,hugqhzjsjheummc,hw nojhumusohasxthejs,hjg.xcngbhoejhfumnouyhnfj
ugqhoejhangjhzjuoejsk

GnlxyuchPeofejsiuoplc,hLnooc’phfx png,hnghuhpexsoh.ufljohugqhonbeo
osx pjsp,hzuphpnoongbhxghuhbusqjghpjuohznoehenphpluojphxgkhPjjngb
Yjrng,hejhpex ojqhoxhent:

“Ue,hoejhanspohpluojshnghS ppnu!hIjjghejsjhyxgb?hAnspo-suojhnfj—qxhm o
cx shpluojphxgk”

“Nheurjg’ohbxohtchpluojp,”hYjrnghugpzjsjq,htusrjyngbhuohoenphixyqgjpp
ugqhjupjhnghejshmsjpjgfj,hugqhgxohaxshxgjhpjfxgqhyxpngbhpnbeohxahejs,
oex behejhqnqhgxohyxxlhuohejskhEjhajyohuphoex behoejhp ghzjsjhfxtngb
gjushentkhPejhzuphnghuhfxsgjs,hugqho sgngbhx ohejshpyjgqjshajjohng
oejnshenbehixxophznoehxirnx phontnqnoc,hpejhpluojqhoxzusqphentkhUhixc
nghS ppnughqsjpp,hqjpmjsuojychzurngbhenphustphugqhixzjqhqxzghoxhoej
bsx gq,hxrjsoxxlhejskhPejhpluojqhuhynooyjh gfjsoungyc;houlngbhejsheugqp
x ohxahoejhynooyjht aahoeuohe gbhxghuhfxsq,hpejhejyqhoejthsjuqchaxs
jtjsbjgfc,hugqhyxxlngbhoxzusqphYjrng,hzexthpejheuqhsjfxbgndjq,hpej
ptnyjqhuohent,hugqhuohejshxzghajuspkhZejghpejheuqhbxohsx gqhoejho sg,
pejhburjhejspjyahuhm pehxaahznoehxgjhaxxo,hugqhpluojqhposunbeoh mhox
PeofejsiuoplckhFy ofengbhuohenphust,hpejhgxqqjqhptnyngbhoxhYjrngkhPej
zuphtxsjhpmyjgqnqhoeughejheuqhntubngjqhejsk

Zejghejhoex beohxahejs,hejhfx yqhfuyyh mhuhrnrnqhmnfo sjhxahejshox
entpjya,hjpmjfnuyychoejhfeusthxahoeuohynooyjhaunshejuq,hpxhasjjychpjo
xghoejhpeumjychbnsynpehpex yqjsp,hugqhpxha yyhxahfenyqnpehisnbeogjpp
ugqhbxxqhe txskhOejhfenyqnpegjpphxahejshjvmsjppnxg,hoxbjoejshznoehoej
qjynfuojhiju ochxahejshanb sj,htuqjh mhejshpmjfnuyhfeust,hugqhoeuohej
a yychsjuyndjqkhI ohzeuohuyzucphpos flhenthnghejshuphpxtjoengbh gyxxljq
axs,hzuphoejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshjcjp,hpxao,hpjsjgj,hugqhos oea y,hugq
uixrjhuyy,hejshptnyj,hzenfehuyzucphosugpmxsojqhYjrnghoxhughjgfeugojq
zxsyq,hzejsjhejhajyohentpjyahpxaojgjqhugqhojgqjs,huphejhsjtjtijsjq
entpjyahnghpxtjhqucphxahenphjusychfenyqexxqk

“Eurjhcx hijjghejsjhyxgb?”hpejhpunq,hbnrngbhenthejsheugqkh“Oeuglhcx ,”
pejhuqqjq,huphejhmnfljqh mhoejheugqljsfenjahoeuoheuqhauyyjghx ohxahejs
t aak

“N?hN’rjhgxohyxgbhkkkhcjpojsquchkkkhNhtjughoxquchkkkhNhussnrjq,”
ugpzjsjqhYjrng,hnghenphjtxonxghgxohuohxgfjh gqjspougqngbhejshw jponxgk
“Nhzuphtjugngbhoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhcx ,”hejhpunq;hugqhoejg,hsjfxyyjfongb
znoehzeuohngojgonxghejhzuphoscngbhoxhpjjhejs,hejhzuphmsxtmoychxrjsfxtj
znoehfxga pnxghugqhiy pejqk

“Nhqnqg’ohlgxzhcx hfx yqhpluoj,hugqhpluojhpxhzjyyk”

Pejhyxxljqhuohenthjusgjpoyc,huphoex behznpengbhoxhtuljhx ohoejhfu pjhxa
enphfxga pnxgk

“Cx shmsunpjhnphzxsoeheurngbkhOejhosuqnonxghnphljmoh mhejsjhoeuohcx 
usjhoejhijpohxahpluojsp,”hpejhpunq,hznoehejshynooyjhiyufl-byxrjqheugq
is pengbhuhbsunghxahexusasxpohxaahejsht aak

“Cjp,hNh pjqhxgfjhoxhpluojhznoehmuppnxg;hNhzugojqhoxhsjufehmjsajfonxgk”

“Cx hqxhjrjscoengbhznoehmuppnxg,hNhoengl,”hpejhpunqhptnyngbkh“Nhpex yq
pxhynljhoxhpjjhexzhcx hpluojkhM ohxghpluojp,hugqhyjoh phpluoj
oxbjoejsk”

“Pluojhoxbjoejs!hFughoeuohijhmxppniyj?”hoex beohYjrng,hbudngbhuohejsk

“N’yyhm ohoejthxghqnsjfoyc,”hejhpunqk

Ugqhejhzjgohxaahoxhbjohpluojpk

“No’phuhyxgbhzenyjhpngfjhzj’rjhpjjghcx hejsj,hpns,”hpunqhoejhuoojgqugo,
p mmxsongbhenphaxxo,hugqhpfsjzngbhxghoejhejjyhxahoejhpluojkh“Jvfjmo
cx ,hoejsj’phgxgjhxahoejhbjgoyjtjghanspo-suojhpluojspkhZnyyhoeuohijhuyy
snbeo?”hpunqhej,honbeojgngbhoejhposumk

“Xe,hcjp,hcjp;htuljheupoj,hmyjupj,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hznoehqnaanf yoc
sjposungngbhoejhptnyjhxahsumo sjhzenfehzx yqhxrjspmsjuqhenphaufjk
“Cjp,”hejhoex beo,h“oenphgxzhnphynaj,hoenphnpheummngjpp!h_Oxbjoejs,_
pejhpunq;h_yjoh phpluojhoxbjoejs!_hPmjulhoxhejshgxz?hI ohoeuo’ph. po
zechN’thuasunqhoxhpmjul—ijfu pjhN’theummchgxz,heummchnghexmj,
ugczuckkkkhUgqhoejg?kkkhI ohNht po!hNht po!hNht po!hUzuchznoe
zjulgjpp!”

Yjrnghsxpjhoxhenphajjo,hoxxlhxaahenphxrjsfxuo,hugqhpf sscngbhxrjshoej
sx behnfjhsx gqhoejhe o,hfutjhx ohxghoejhptxxoehnfjhugqhpluojqhznoex o
jaaxso,huphnohzjsj,hichpntmyjhjvjsfnpjhxahznyy,hngfsjupngbhugq
pyufljgngbhpmjjqhugqho sgngbhenphfx spjkhEjhummsxufejqhznoehontnqnoc,
i ohubunghejshptnyjhsjupp sjqhentk

Pejhburjhenthejsheugq,hugqhoejchpjohxaahpnqjhichpnqj,hbxngbhaupojshugq
aupojs,hugqhoejhtxsjhsumnqychoejchtxrjqhoejhtxsjhonbeoychpejhbsupmjq
enpheugqk

“Znoehcx hNhpex yqhpxxghyjusg;hNhpxtjexzhajjyhfxganqjgfjhnghcx ,”hpej
punqhoxhentk

“UgqhNheurjhfxganqjgfjhnghtcpjyahzejghcx husjhyjugngbhxghtj,”hejhpunq,
i ohzuphuohxgfjhmugnf-posnfljghuohzeuohejheuqhpunq,hugqhiy pejqkhUgq
ngqjjq,hgxhpxxgjsheuqhejh oojsjqhoejpjhzxsqp,hzejghuyyhuohxgfj,hynlj
oejhp ghbxngbhijengqhuhfyx q,hejshaufjhyxpohuyyhnophasnjgqyngjpp,hugq
Yjrnghqjojfojqhoejhautnynushfeugbjhnghejshjvmsjppnxghoeuohqjgxojqhoej
zxslngbhxahoex beo;huhfsjupjhpexzjqhxghejshptxxoehisxzk

“Nphoejsjhugcoengbhosx iyngbhcx ?—oex behN’rjhgxhsnbeohoxhuplhp fehu
w jponxg,”hejhuqqjqhe ssnjqyck

“Xe,hzechpx?kkkhGx,hNheurjhgxoengbhoxhosx iyjhtj,”hpejhsjpmxgqjq
fxyqyc;hugqhpejhuqqjqhnttjqnuojyc:h“Cx heurjg’ohpjjghTyyjkhYngxg,heurj
cx ?”

“Gxohcjok”

“Bxhugqhpmjulhoxhejs,hpejhynljphcx hpxht fek”

“Zeuo’phzsxgb?hNheurjhxaajgqjqhejskhYxsqhejymhtj!”hoex beohYjrng,hugq
ejhayjzhoxzusqphoejhxyqhAsjgfezxtughznoehoejhbsuchsngbyjop,hzexhzup
pnoongbhxghuhijgfekhPtnyngbhugqhpexzngbhejshauypjhojjoe,hpejhbsjjojq
enthuphughxyqhasnjgqk

“Cjp,hcx hpjjhzj’sjhbsxzngbh m,”hpejhpunqhoxhent,hbyugfngbhoxzusqp
Lnooc,h“ugqhbsxzngbhxyqkh_Ongchijus_heuphbsxzghinbhgxz!”hm sp jqhoej
Asjgfezxtug,hyu bengb,hugqhpejhsjtngqjqhenthxahenph.xljhuix ohoejhoesjj
cx gbhyuqnjphzexthejheuqhfxtmusjqhoxhoejhoesjjhijusphnghoejhJgbynpe
g spjschouyjkh“Qxhcx hsjtjtijshoeuo’phzeuohcx h pjqhoxhfuyyhoejt?”

Ejhsjtjtijsjqhuipxy ojychgxoengb,hi ohpejheuqhijjghyu bengbhuohoejh.xlj
axshojghcjusphgxz,hugqhzuphaxgqhxahnok

“Gxz,hbxhugqhpluoj,hbxhugqhpluojkhX shLnoocheuphyjusgjqhoxhpluoj
gnfjyc,heupg’ohpej?”

ZejghYjrnghqusojqh mhoxhLnoochejshaufjhzuphgxhyxgbjshpojsg;hejshjcjp
yxxljqhuohenthznoehoejhputjhpngfjsnochugqhasnjgqyngjpp,hi ohYjrng
augfnjqhoeuohnghejshasnjgqyngjpphoejsjhzuphuhfjsounghgxojhxahqjynijsuoj
fxtmxp sjkhUgqhejhajyohqjmsjppjqkhUaojshouylngbhuhynooyjhxahejshxyq
bxrjsgjpphugqhejshmjf ynusnonjp,hpejhw jponxgjqhenthuix ohenphynajk

“P sjychcx ht pohijhq yyhnghoejhfx goschnghoejhzngojs,husjg’ohcx ?”hpej
punqk

“Gx,hN’thgxohq yy,hNhuthrjschi pc,”hejhpunq,hajjyngbhoeuohpejhzup
exyqngbhenthnghfejflhichejshfxtmxpjqhoxgj,hzenfehejhzx yqhgxoheurjhoej
axsfjhoxhisjulhoesx be,h. pohuphnoheuqhijjghuohoejhijbnggngbhxahoej
zngojsk

“Usjhcx hbxngbhoxhpouchnghoxzghyxgb?”hLnoochw jponxgjqhentk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz,”hejhugpzjsjq,hgxohoenglngbhxahzeuohejhzuphpucngbkhOej
oex beohoeuohnahejhzjsjhejyqhnghfejflhichejshoxgjhxahw njohasnjgqyngjpp
ejhzx yqhjgqhichbxngbhiuflhubunghznoex ohqjfnqngbhugcoengbhfutjhngox
enphtngq,hugqhejhsjpxyrjqhoxhtuljhuhpos bbyjhubungpohnok

“Exzhnphnohcx hqxg’ohlgxz?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzkhNohqjmjgqph mxghcx ,”hejhpunq,hugqhzuphnttjqnuojyc
exssxs-posnfljghuohenphxzghzxsqpk

Zejoejshnohzuphoeuohpejheuqhejusqhenphzxsqp,hxshoeuohpejhqnqhgxohzugo
oxhejushoejt,hpejhtuqjhuhpxsohxahpo tiyj,hoznfjhpos flhx o,hugq
e ssnjqychpluojqhuzuchasxthentkhPejhpluojqh mhoxhTyyjkhYngxg,hpunq
pxtjoengbhoxhejs,hugqhzjgohoxzusqphoejhmurnynxghzejsjhoejhyuqnjphoxxl
xaahoejnshpluojpk

“TchBxq!hzeuoheurjhNhqxgj!hTjsfna yhBxq!hejymhtj,hb nqjhtj,”hpunq
Yjrng,hmsucngbhngzusqyc,hugqhuohoejhputjhontj,hajjyngbhuhgjjqhxa
rnxyjgohjvjsfnpj,hejhpluojqhuix ohqjpfsningbhnggjshugqhx ojshfnsfyjpk

Uohoeuohtxtjgohxgjhxahoejhcx gbhtjg,hoejhijpohxahoejhpluojsphxahoej
quc,hfutjhx ohxahoejhfxaajj-ex pjhnghenphpluojp,hznoehuhfnbusjoojhng
enphtx oekhOulngbhuhs g,hejhqupejqhqxzghoejhpojmphnghenphpluojp,
fsupengbhugqhix gqngbh mhugqhqxzgkhEjhayjzhqxzg,hugqhznoex ohjrjg
feugbngbhoejhmxpnonxghxahenpheugqp,hpluojqhuzuchxrjshoejhnfjk

“Ue,hoeuo’phuhgjzhosnfl!”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhejhmsxtmoychsugh mhoxhoejhoxm
oxhqxhoenphgjzhosnflk

“Qxg’ohisjulhcx shgjfl!hnohgjjqphmsufonfj!”hGnlxyuchPeofejsiuoplc
pex ojqhuaojshentk

Yjrnghzjgohoxhoejhpojmp,hoxxlhuhs ghasxthuixrjhuphijpohejhfx yq,hugq
qupejqhqxzg,hmsjpjsrngbhenphiuyugfjhnghoenph gzxgojqhtxrjtjgohznoehenp
eugqpkhXghoejhyupohpojmhejhpo tiyjq,hi ohiusjychox fengbhoejhnfjhznoe
enpheugq,hznoehuhrnxyjgohjaaxsohsjfxrjsjqhentpjya,hugqhpluojqhxaa,
yu bengbk

“Exzhpmyjgqnq,hexzhgnfjhejhnp!”hLnoochzuphoenglngbhuohoeuohontj,huphpej
futjhx ohxahoejhmurnynxghznoehTyyjkhYngxg,hugqhyxxljqhoxzusqphenthznoe
uhptnyjhxahw njohuaajfonxg,huphoex behejhzjsjhuhaurxsnojhisxoejskh“Ugq
fughnohijhtchau yo,hfughNheurjhqxgjhugcoengbhzsxgb?hOejchouylhxa
aynsouonxgkhNhlgxzhno’phgxohejhoeuohNhyxrj;hi ohponyyhNhutheummchznoe
ent,hugqhej’phpxh.xyyckhXgyc,hzechqnqhejhpuchoeuo?kkk”hpejht pjqk

FuofengbhpnbeohxahLnoochbxngbhuzuc,hugqhejshtxoejshtjjongbhejshuohoej
pojmp,hYjrng,hay pejqhasxthenphsumnqhjvjsfnpj,hpoxxqhponyyhugqhmxgqjsjq
uhtng ojkhEjhoxxlhxaahenphpluojp,hugqhxrjsoxxlhoejhtxoejshugqhqu beojs
uohoejhjgosugfjhxahoejhbusqjgpk

“Qjynbeojqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hpunqhMsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucukh“XghOe spqucphzj
usjhextj,huphuyzucpk”

“Oxquc,hoejg?”

“Zjhpeuyyhijhmyjupjqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hoejhmsngfjpphpunqhponaayck

Oenphponaagjpphe sohLnooc,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohsjpnpohoejhqjpnsjhox
ptxxoehxrjshejshtxoejs’phfxyqgjppkhPejho sgjqhejshejuq,hugqhznoehu
ptnyjhpunq:

“Bxxq-icjhonyyhoenphjrjgngbk”

UohoeuohtxtjgohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,henpheuohfxfljqhxghxgjhpnqj,hznoe
ijutngbhaufjhugqhjcjp,hposxqjhngoxhoejhbusqjghynljhuhfxgw jsngbhejsxk
I ohuphejhummsxufejqhenphtxoejs-ng-yuz,hejhsjpmxgqjqhnghuhtx sga yhugq
fsjpoauyyjghoxgjhoxhejshngw nsnjphuix ohQxyyc’phejuyoekhUaojshuhynooyj
p iq jqhugqhqj.jfojqhfxgrjspuonxghznoehenphtxoejs-ng-yuz,hejhoesjzhx o
enphfejpohubung,hugqhm ohenphusthnghYjrng’pk

“Zjyy,hpeuyyhzjhpjohxaa?”hejhupljqkh“N’rjhijjghoenglngbhuix ohcx huyy
oenphontj,hugqhN’thrjsc,hrjschbyuqhcx ’rjhfxtj,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhent
nghoejhaufjhznoehuhpnbgnanfugohunsk

“Cjp,hfxtjhuyxgb,”hugpzjsjqhYjrnghnghjfpoupc,hejusngbh gfjupngbychoej
px gqhxahoeuohrxnfjhpucngb,h“Bxxq-icjhonyyhoenphjrjgngb,”hugqhpjjngb
oejhptnyjhznoehzenfehnohzuphpunqk

“OxhoejhJgbyugqhxshoejhEjstnoubj?”

“Nhqxg’ohtngqhzenfek”

“Uyyhsnbeo,hoejg,hoejhJgbyugq,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hpjyjfongb
oeuohsjpou sugohijfu pjhejhxzjqhtxsjhoejsjhoeughuohoejhEjstnoubj,hugq
fxgpjw jgoychfxgpnqjsjqhnohtjughoxhurxnqhnokh“Eurjhcx hbxohuhpyjqbj?
Oeuo’phanspo-suoj,haxshNhpjgohtchfussnubjhextjk”

OejhasnjgqpheusqychpmxljhuyyhoejhzuckhYjrnghzuphzxgqjsngbhzeuohoeuo
feugbjhnghLnooc’phjvmsjppnxgheuqhtjugo,hugqhuyojsguojychupp sngb
entpjyahoeuohoejsjhzuphexmj,hugqhauyyngbhngoxhqjpmuns,hpjjngbhfyjusyc
oeuohenphexmjphzjsjhngpugj,hugqhcjohuyyhoejhzenyjhejhajyohentpjyahw noj
ugxoejshtug,h oojsych gynljhzeuohejheuqhijjghijaxsjhejshptnyjhugqhoexpj
zxsqp,h“Bxxq-icjhonyyhoenphjrjgngbk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphuipxsijqhq sngbhoejhqsnrjhnghfxtmxpngbhoejhtjg 
xahoejhqnggjsk

“Cx hynljho sixo,hqxg’ohcx ?”hejhpunqhoxhYjrnghuphoejchzjsjhussnrngbk

“Je?”hsjpmxgqjqhYjrngkh“O sixo?hCjp,hN’th_uza yyc_haxgqhxaho sixok”


Feumojsh10

ZejghYjrnghzjgohngoxhoejhsjpou sugohznoehXiyxgplc,hejhfx yqhgxohejym
gxonfngbhuhfjsounghmjf ynusnochxahjvmsjppnxg,huphnohzjsj,huhsjposungjq
suqnugfj,huix ohoejhaufjhugqhzexyjhanb sjhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofek
Xiyxgplchoxxlhxaahenphxrjsfxuo,hugqhznoehenpheuohxrjshxgjhjushzuyljq
ngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxt,hbnrngbhqnsjfonxgphoxhoejhOuoushzunojsp,hzexhzjsj
fy pojsjqhuix ohenthnghjrjgngbhfxuop,hijusngbhgumlngpkhIxzngbhoxhsnbeo
ugqhyjaohoxhoejhmjxmyjhejhtjo,hugqhejsjhuphjrjsczejsjh.xcx pychbsjjongb
ufw ungougfjp,hejhzjgoh mhoxhoejhpnqjixusqhaxshuhmsjyntnguschummjondjs
xahanpehugqhrxqlu,hugqhpunqhoxhoejhmungojqhAsjgfezxtughqjfljqhng
sniixgp,hyufj,hugqhsngbyjop,hijengqhoejhfx gojs,hpxtjoengbhpxhut pngb
oeuohjrjghoeuohAsjgfezxtughzuphtxrjqhoxhbjg ngjhyu beojskhYjrnghaxshenp
musohsjasungjqhasxthoulngbhugchrxqluhpntmychijfu pjhejhajyohp fehu
yxuoengbhxahoeuohAsjgfezxtug,huyyhtuqjh m,hnohpjjtjq,hxahauypjheuns,
_mx qsjhqjhsnd,_hugqh_rngunbsjhqjhoxnyjooj_khEjhtuqjheupojhoxhtxrjhuzuc
asxthejs,huphasxthuhqnsochmyufjkhEnphzexyjhpx yhzuphanyyjqhznoe
tjtxsnjphxahLnooc,hugqhoejsjhzuphuhptnyjhxahosn tmehugqheummngjpp
pengngbhnghenphjcjpk

“Oenphzuc,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,hmyjupjkhCx shjvfjyyjgfchzxg’ohijhqnpo sijq
ejsj,”hpunqhuhmusonf yusychmjsongufnx p,hzenoj-ejuqjqhxyqhOuoushznoe
nttjgpjhenmphugqhfxuo-ounyphbumngbhznqjychijengqkh“Zuylhng,hcx s
jvfjyyjgfc,”hejhpunqhoxhYjrng;hichzuchxahpexzngbhenphsjpmjfohoxhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hijngbhuoojgonrjhoxhenphb jpohuphzjyyk

Ngpougoychayngbngbhuhasjpehfyxoehxrjshoejhsx gqhouiyjh gqjshoejhisxgdj
feugqjynjs,hoex behnohuysjuqcheuqhuhouiyjhfyxoehxghno,hejhm pejqh m
rjyrjohfeunsp,hugqhfutjhoxhuhpougqponyyhijaxsjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoe
uhgumlnghugqhuhinyyhxahausjhnghenpheugqp,huzunongbhenphfxttugqpk

“Nahcx hmsjajshno,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,huhmsnruojhsxxthznyyhijhasjj
qnsjfoyc;hMsngfjhBxynponghznoehuhyuqckhAsjpehxcpojspheurjhfxtjhngk”

“Ue!hxcpojspk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehijfutjhoex beoa yk

“Exzhnahzjhzjsjhoxhfeugbjhx shmsxbsut,hYjrng?”hejhpunq,hljjmngbhenp
angbjshxghoejhinyyhxahausjkhUgqhenphaufjhjvmsjppjqhpjsnx phejpnouonxgk
“Usjhoejhxcpojsphbxxq?hTngqhgxzk”

“Oejc’sjhAyjgpi sb,hcx shjvfjyyjgfckhZj’rjhgxhXpojgqk”

“Ayjgpi sbhznyyhqx,hi ohusjhoejchasjpe?”

“Xgychussnrjqhcjpojsquck”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hexzhnahzjhzjsjhoxhijbnghznoehxcpojsp,hugqhpxhfeugbjhoej
zexyjhmsxbsut?hJe?”

“No’phuyyhoejhputjhoxhtjkhNhpex yqhynljhfuiiubjhpx mhugqhmxssnqbj
ijoojshoeughugcoengb;hi ohxahfx spjhoejsj’phgxoengbhynljhoeuohejsjk”

“_MxssnqbjhàhyuhS ppj,_hcx shexgxshzx yqhynlj?”hpunqhoejhOuous,hijgqngb
qxzghoxhYjrng,hynljhuhg spjhpmjulngbhoxhuhfenyqk

“Gx,h.xlngbhumuso,hzeuojrjshcx hfexxpjhnphp sjhoxhijhbxxqkhN’rjhijjg
pluongb,hugqhN’the gbsckhUgqhqxg’ohntubngj,”hejhuqqjq,hqjojfongbhuhyxxl
xahqnppuonpaufonxghxghXiyxgplc’phaufj,h“oeuohNhpeug’ohummsjfnuojhcx s
fexnfjkhNhuthaxgqhxahbxxqhoengbpk”

“Nhpex yqhexmjhpx!hUaojshuyy,hno’phxgjhxahoejhmyjup sjphxahynaj,”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Zjyy,hoejg,htchasnjgq,hcx hbnrjh phozx—xshijoojs
puchoesjj—qxdjghxcpojsp,hfyjushpx mhznoehrjbjouiyjpkkkk”

“_Msngougnèsj,_”hmsxtmojqhoejhOuouskhI ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehummusjgoyc
qnqhgxohfusjhoxhuyyxzhenthoejhpuonpaufonxghxahbnrngbhoejhAsjgfehgutjp
xahoejhqnpejpk

“Znoehrjbjouiyjphnghno,hcx hlgxzkhOejgho sixohznoehoenflhpu fj,hoejg
kkkhsxupohijja;hugqhtngqhno’phbxxqkhCjp,hugqhfumxgp,hmjseump,hugqhoejg
pzjjopk”

OejhOuous,hsjfxyyjfongbhoeuohnohzuphPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phzuchgxohox
fuyyhoejhqnpejphichoejhgutjphnghoejhAsjgfehinyyhxahausj,hqnqhgxohsjmjuo
oejthuaojshent,hi ohfx yqhgxohsjpnpohsjejuspngbhoejhzexyjhtjg hox
entpjyahuffxsqngbhoxhoejhinyy:—“_Px mjhmsngougnèsj,ho sixo,hpu fj
Iju tusfeunp,hmx yusqhàhy’jposubxg,htuféqxngjhqjhas nop_hkkkhjofk,”hugq
oejghngpougoyc,huphoex behzxsljqhichpmsngbp,hyucngbhqxzghxgjhix gqhinyy
xahausj,hejhoxxlh mhugxoejs,hoejhynpohxahzngjp,hugqhp itnoojqhnohox
PojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zeuohpeuyyhzjhqsngl?”

“Zeuohcx hynlj,hxgychgxohoxxht fekhFeutmubgj,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Zeuo!hoxhpousohznoe?hCx ’sjhsnbeohoex be,hNhqusjhpuckhQxhcx hynljhoej
zenojhpjuy?”

“_Fufejohiyugf,_”hmsxtmojqhoejhOuousk

“Rjschzjyy,hoejg,hbnrjh phoeuohisugqhznoehoejhxcpojsp,hugqhoejghzj’yy
pjjk”

“Cjp,hpnskhUgqhzeuohouiyjhzngj?”

“Cx hfughbnrjh phG nopkhXe,hgx,hijoojshoejhfyuppnfhFeuiynpk”

“Cjp,hpnskhUgqh_cx s_hfejjpj,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc?”

“Xe,hcjp,hMustjpugkhXshzx yqhcx hynljhugxoejs?”

“Gx,hno’phuyyhoejhputjhoxhtj,”hpunqhYjrng,h guiyjhoxhp mmsjpphuhptnyjk

UgqhoejhOuoushsughxaahznoehaycngbhfxuo-ounyp,hugqhnghanrjhtng ojp
qusojqhnghznoehuhqnpehxahxmjgjqhxcpojsphxghtxoejs-xa-mjusyhpejyyp,hugq
uhixooyjhijozjjghenphangbjspk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfs pejqhoejhpousfechgumlng,ho fljqhnohngoxhenp
zunpofxuo,hugqhpjooyngbhenphustphfxtaxsouiyc,hpousojqhxghoejhxcpojspk

“Gxohiuq,”hejhpunq,hposnmmngbhoejhxcpojsphasxthoejhmjusychpejyyhznoehu
pnyrjshaxsl,hugqhpzuyyxzngbhoejthxgjhuaojshugxoejskh“Gxohiuq,”hej
sjmjuojq,ho sgngbhenphqjzc,hisnyynugohjcjphasxthYjrnghoxhoejhOuousk

Yjrnghuojhoejhxcpojsphngqjjq,hoex behzenojhisjuqhugqhfejjpjhzx yqheurj
myjupjqhenthijoojskhI ohejhzuphuqtnsngbhXiyxgplckhJrjghoejhOuous,
 gfxslngbhoejhixooyjhugqhmx sngbhoejhpmuslyngbhzngjhngoxhoejhqjynfuoj
byuppjp,hbyugfjqhuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhpjooyjqhenphzenojhfsuruo
znoehuhmjsfjmoniyjhptnyjhxahpuonpaufonxgk

“Cx hqxg’ohfusjht fehaxshxcpojsp,hqxhcx ?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
jtmocngbhenphzngj-byupp,h“xshcx ’sjhzxssnjqhuix ohpxtjoengbkhJe?”

EjhzugojqhYjrnghoxhijhnghbxxqhpmnsnopkhI ohnohzuphgxohoeuohYjrnghzup
gxohnghbxxqhpmnsnop;hejhzuphnyyhuohjupjkhZnoehzeuohejheuqhnghenphpx y,
ejhajyohpxsjhugqh gfxtaxsouiyjhnghoejhsjpou sugo,hnghoejhtnqpohxa
msnruojhsxxtphzejsjhtjghzjsjhqngngbhznoehyuqnjp,hnghuyyhoenpha pphugq
i poyj;hoejhp ssx gqngbphxahisxgdjp,hyxxlngb-byuppjp,hbup,hugq
zunojsp—uyyhxahnohzuphxaajgpnrjhoxhentkhEjhzuphuasunqhxahp yycngbhzeuo
enphpx yhzuphisnta yhxak

“N?hCjp,hNhut;hi ohijpnqjp,huyyhoenphixoejsphtj,”hejhpunqkh“Cx hfug’o
fxgfjnrjhexzhw jjshnohuyyhpjjtphoxhuhfx goschmjspxghynljhtj,huphw jjs
uphoeuohbjgoyjtug’phgunyphNhpuzhuohcx shmyufjkkkk”

“Cjp,hNhpuzhexzht fehngojsjpojqhcx hzjsjhnghmxxshBsngjrnofe’phgunyp,”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyu bengbk

“No’phoxxht fehaxshtj,”hsjpmxgqjqhYjrngkh“Qxhosc,hgxz,hugqhm ohcx spjya
nghtchmyufj,houljhoejhmxngohxahrnjzhxahuhfx goschmjspxgkhZjhnghoej
fx goschoschoxhisngbhx sheugqphngoxhp fehuhpouojhuphznyyhijhtxpo
fxgrjgnjgohaxshzxslngbhznoekhPxhzjhf ohx shgunyp;hpxtjontjphzjho sgh m
x shpyjjrjpkhUgqhejsjhmjxmyjhm smxpjychyjohoejnshgunyphbsxzhuphyxgbhup
oejchznyy,hugqhynglhxghptuyyhpu fjsphichzuchxahpo qp,hpxhoeuohoejchfug
qxhgxoengbhznoehoejnsheugqpk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqhbunyck

“Xe,hcjp,hoeuo’ph. pohuhpnbghoeuohejheuphgxhgjjqhoxhqxhfxuspjhzxslkhEnp
zxslhnphznoehoejhtngqkkkk”

“TucijkhI ohponyyhno’phw jjshoxhtj,h. pohuphuohoenphtxtjgohnohpjjtp
w jjshoxhtjhoeuohzjhfx goschaxylphoschoxhbjohx shtjuyphxrjshuphpxxghup
zjhfug,hpxhuphoxhijhsjuqchaxshx shzxsl,hzenyjhejsjhusjhzjhoscngbhox
qsubhx ohx shtjuyhuphyxgbhuphmxppniyj,hugqhznoehoeuohxi.jfohjuongb
xcpojspkkkk”

“Zec,hxahfx spj,”hxi.jfojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“I ohoeuo’ph. pohoej
unthxahfnrnynduonxg—oxhtuljhjrjscoengbhuhpx sfjhxahjg.xctjgok”

“Zjyy,hnahoeuo’phnophunt,hN’qhsuoejshijhuhpurubjk”

“Ugqhpxhcx husjhuhpurubjkhUyyhcx hYjrngphusjhpurubjpk”

YjrnghpnbejqkhEjhsjtjtijsjqhenphisxoejshGnlxyuc,hugqhajyohupeutjqhugq
pxsj,hugqhejhpfxzyjq;hi ohXiyxgplchijbughpmjulngbhxahuhp i.jfohzenfehuo
xgfjhqsjzhenphuoojgonxgk

“Xe,hNhpuc,husjhcx hbxngbhoxgnbeohoxhx shmjxmyj,hoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’,hN
tjug?”hejhpunq,henphjcjphpmuslyngbhpnbgnanfugoychuphejhm pejqhuzuchoej
jtmochsx behpejyyp,hugqhqsjzhoejhfejjpjhoxzusqphentk

“Cjp,hNhpeuyyhfjsoungychbx,”hsjmynjqhYjrng;h“oex behNhaugfnjqhoej
msngfjpphzuphgxohrjschzusthnghejshngrnouonxgk”

“Zeuohgxgpjgpj!hOeuo’phejshtuggjskkkkhFxtj,hixc,hoejhpx m!kkkhOeuo’p
ejshtuggjs—_bsugqjhqutj,_”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“N’thfxtngb,hoxx,
i ohNheurjhoxhbxhoxhoejhFx gojpphIxgngu’phsjejuspuykhFxtj,hnpg’ohno
os jhoeuohcx ’sjhuhpurubj?hExzhqxhcx hjvmyunghoejhp qqjghzuchnghzenfe
cx hrugnpejqhasxthTxpfxz?hOejhPeofejsiuoplcphzjsjhfxgong uyychuplngbhtj
uix ohcx ,huphoex behNhx beohoxhlgxzkhOejhxgychoengbhNhlgxzhnphoeuohcx 
uyzucphqxhzeuohgxhxgjhjypjhqxjpk”

“Cjp,”hpunqhYjrng,hpyxzychugqhznoehjtxonxg,h“cx ’sjhsnbeokhNhuthu
purubjkhXgyc,htchpurubjgjpphnphgxohngheurngbhbxgjhuzuc,hi ohnghfxtngb
gxzkhGxzhNheurjhfxtjkkkk”

“Xe,hzeuohuhy flchajyyxzhcx husj!”hisxljhnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
yxxlngbhngoxhYjrng’phjcjpk

“Zec?”

“‘Nhlgxzhuhbuyyugohpojjqhichoxljgphp sj,

UgqhichenphjcjphNhlgxzhuhcx oehnghyxrj,’”



qjfyuntjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Jrjscoengbhnphijaxsjhcx k”

“Zec,hnphnohxrjshaxshcx huysjuqc?”

“Gx;hgxohxrjshjvufoyc,hi ohoejha o sjhnphcx sp,hugqhoejhmsjpjgohnp
tngj,hugqhoejhmsjpjgo—zjyy,hno’phgxohuyyhoeuohnohtnbeohijk”

“Exzhpx?”

“Xe,hoengbphbxhzsxgbkhI ohNhqxg’ohzugohoxhouylhxahtcpjya,hugqhijpnqjphN
fug’ohjvmyunghnohuyy,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Zjyy,hzecheurjhcx 
fxtjhoxhTxpfxz,hoejg?kkkhEn!houljhuzuc!”hejhfuyyjqhoxhoejhOuousk

“Cx hb jpp?”hsjpmxgqjqhYjrng,henphjcjphynljhqjjmhzjyyphxahynbeohanvjq
xghPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Nhb jpp,hi ohNhfug’ohijhoejhanspohoxhouylhuix ohnokhCx hfughpjjhic
oeuohzejoejshNhb jpphsnbeohxshzsxgb,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbudngb
uohYjrnghznoehuhp ioyjhptnyjk

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuoheurjhcx hoxhpuchoxhtj?”hpunqhYjrnghnghuhw nrjsngb
rxnfj,hajjyngbhoeuohuyyhoejht pfyjphxahenphaufjhzjsjhw nrjsngbhoxxk
“Exzhqxhcx hyxxlhuohoejhw jponxg?”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpyxzychjtmonjqhenphbyupphxahFeuiynp,hgjrjshoulngb
enphjcjphxaahYjrngk

“N?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h“oejsj’phgxoengbhNhqjpnsjhpxht fehup
oeuo—gxoengb!hNohzx yqhijhoejhijpohoengbhoeuohfx yqhijk”

“I ohcx ’sjhgxohtulngbhuhtnpoulj?hCx hlgxzhzeuohzj’sjhpmjulngbhxa?”
punqhYjrng,hmnjsfngbhenthznoehenphjcjpkh“Cx hoenglhno’phmxppniyj?”

“Nhoenglhno’phmxppniyjkhZechgxohmxppniyj?”

“Gx!hqxhcx hsjuyychoenglhno’phmxppniyj?hGx,hojyyhtjhuyyhcx hoengl!hXe,
i ohnahkkkhnahsja puy’phnghpoxsjhaxshtj!kkkhNgqjjqhNhajjyhp sjkkkk”

“Zechpex yqhcx hoenglhoeuo?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbhuohenp
jvfnojtjgok

“NohpjjtphpxhoxhtjhpxtjontjpkhOeuohznyyhijhuza yhaxshtj,hugqhaxshejs
oxxk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hugczuchoejsj’phgxoengbhuza yhnghnohaxshuhbnsykhJrjschbnsy’p
msx qhxahughxaajsk”

“Cjp,hjrjschbnsy,hi ohgxohpejk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqkhEjhpxhzjyyhlgjzhoeuohajjyngbhxahYjrng’p,
oeuohaxshenthuyyhoejhbnsyphnghoejhzxsyqhzjsjhqnrnqjqhngoxhozxhfyuppjp:
xgjhfyupp—uyyhoejhbnsyphnghoejhzxsyqhjvfjmohejs,hugqhoexpjhbnsyphznoe
uyyhpxsophxahe tughzjulgjppjp,hugqhrjschxsqnguschbnsyp:hoejhxoejs
fyupp—pejhuyxgj,heurngbhgxhzjulgjppjphxahugchpxsohugqhenbejshoeughuyy
e tugnock

“Pouc,houljhpxtjhpu fj,”hejhpunq,hexyqngbhiuflhYjrng’pheugqhuphno
m pejqhuzuchoejhpu fjk

Yjrnghxijqnjgoychejymjqhentpjyahoxhpu fj,hi ohzx yqhgxohyjohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehbxhxghznoehenphqnggjsk

“Gx,hpoxmhuhtng oj,hpoxmhuhtng oj,”hejhpunqkh“Cx ht poh gqjspougqhoeuo
no’phuhw jponxghxahynajhugqhqjuoehaxshtjkhNheurjhgjrjshpmxljghoxhugcxgj
xahoenpkhUgqhoejsj’phgxhxgjhNhfx yqhpmjulhxahnohox,hjvfjmohcx khCx 
lgxzhzj’sjh oojsych gynljhjufehxoejs,hqnaajsjgohoupojphugqhrnjzphugq
jrjscoengb;hi ohNhlgxzhcx ’sjhaxgqhxahtjhugqh gqjspougqhtj,hugqhoeuo’p
zechNhynljhcx huza yyckhI ohaxshBxq’phpulj,hijhw nojhposunbeoaxszusq
znoehtjk”

“Nhojyyhcx hzeuohNhoengl,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbkh“I ohN’yy
puchtxsj:htchznajhnphuhzxgqjsa yhzxtugkkkk”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpnbejq,
sjtjtijsngbhenphmxpnonxghznoehenphznaj,hugq,huaojshuhtxtjgo’phpnyjgfj,
sjp tjq—“PejheuphuhbnaohxahaxsjpjjngbhoengbpkhPejhpjjphsnbeohoesx be
mjxmyj;hi ohoeuo’phgxohuyy;hpejhlgxzphzeuohznyyhfxtjhoxhmupp,
jpmjfnuyychnghoejhzuchxahtussnubjpkhPejhaxsjoxyq,haxshngpougfj,hoeuo
MsngfjpphPeuexrplucuhzx yqhtusschIsjgojygkhGxhxgjhzx yqhijynjrjhno,hi o
nohfutjhoxhmuppkhUgqhpej’phxghcx shpnqjk”

“Exzhqxhcx htjug?”

“No’phgxohxgychoeuohpejhynljphcx —pejhpucphoeuohLnoochnphfjsounghoxhij
cx shznajk”

UohoejpjhzxsqphYjrng’phaufjhp qqjgychynbeojqh mhznoehuhptnyj,huhptnyj
gxohaushasxthojusphxahjtxonxgk

“Pejhpucphoeuo!”hfsnjqhYjrngkh“Nhuyzucphpunqhpejhzuphjvw npnoj,hcx s
znajkhOejsj,hoeuo’phjgx be,hjgx behpunqhuix ohno,”hejhpunq,hbjoongbh m
asxthenphpjuok

“Uyyhsnbeo,hi ohqxhpnohqxzgk”

I ohYjrnghfx yqhgxohpnohqxzgkhEjhzuyljqhznoehenphansthosjuqhoznfjh m
ugqhqxzghoejhynooyjhfubjhxahuhsxxt,hiyngljqhenphjcjynqphoeuohenphojusp
tnbeohgxohauyy,hugqhxgychoejghpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyjk

“Cx ht poh gqjspougq,”hpunqhej,h“no’phgxohyxrjkhN’rjhijjghnghyxrj,hi o
no’phgxohoeuokhNo’phgxohtchajjyngb,hi ohuhpxsohxahaxsfjhx opnqjhtjheup
ouljghmxppjppnxghxahtjkhNhzjgohuzuc,hcx hpjj,hijfu pjhNhtuqjh mhtchtngq
oeuohnohfx yqhgjrjshij,hcx h gqjspougq,huphuheummngjpphoeuohqxjphgxo
fxtjhxghjusoe;hi ohN’rjhpos bbyjqhznoehtcpjya,hNhpjjhoejsj’phgxhynrngb
znoex ohnokhUgqhnoht pohijhpjooyjqk”

“Zeuohqnqhcx hbxhuzuchaxs?”

“Ue,hpoxmhuhtng oj!hUe,hoejhoex beophoeuohfxtjhfsxzqngbhxghxgj!hOej
w jponxgphxgjht pohuplhxgjpjya!hYnpojgkhCx hfug’ohntubngjhzeuohcx ’rj
qxgjhaxshtjhichzeuohcx hpunqkhN’thpxheummchoeuohN’rjhijfxtjhmxpnonrjyc
euoja y;hN’rjhaxsbxoojghjrjscoengbkhNhejusqhoxquchoeuohtchisxoejs
Gnlxyuchkkkhcx hlgxz,hej’phejsjhkkkhNheuqhjrjghaxsbxoojghentkhNohpjjtp
oxhtjhoeuohej’pheummchoxxkhNo’phuhpxsohxahtuqgjppkhI ohxgjhoengb’p
uza ykkkkhEjsj,hcx ’rjhijjghtussnjq,hcx hlgxzhoejhajjyngbhkkkhno’p
uza yhoeuohzj—xyq—znoehuhmupohkkkhgxohxahyxrj,hi ohxahpngphkkkhusj
isx beohuyyhuohxgfjhpxhgjushoxhuhfsjuo sjhm sjhugqhnggxfjgo;hno’p
yxuoepxtj,hugqhoeuo’phzechxgjhfug’ohejymhajjyngbhxgjpjyah gzxsoeck”

“Xe,hzjyy,hcx ’rjhgxohtugchpngphxghcx shfxgpfnjgfjk”

“Uyup!huyyhoejhputj,”hpunqhYjrng,h“zejghznoehyxuoengbhNhbxhxrjshtc
ynaj,hNhpe qqjshugqhf spjhugqhinoojsychsjbsjohnokkkkhCjpk”

“Zeuohzx yqhcx heurj?hOejhzxsyq’phtuqjhpx,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Oejhxgjhfxtaxsohnphynljhoeuohmsucjs,hzenfehNhuyzucphynljq:h‘Axsbnrjhtj
gxohuffxsqngbhoxhtch gzxsoengjpp,hi ohuffxsqngbhoxhOec
yxrngb-lngqgjppk’hOeuo’phoejhxgychzuchpejhfughaxsbnrjhtjk”


Feumojsh11

Yjrnghjtmonjqhenphbyupp,hugqhoejchzjsjhpnyjgohaxshuhzenyjk

“Oejsj’phxgjhxoejshoengbhNhx beohoxhojyyhcx khQxhcx hlgxzhRsxgplc?”
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehupljqhYjrngk

“Gx,hNhqxg’okhZechqxhcx hupl?”

“Bnrjh phugxoejshixooyj,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehqnsjfojqhoejhOuous,hzex
zuphanyyngbh mhoejnshbyuppjphugqhanqbjongbhsx gqhoejth. pohzejghejhzup
gxohzugojqk

“Zechcx hx beohoxhlgxzhRsxgplchnphoeuohej’phxgjhxahcx shsnruypk”

“Zex’phRsxgplc?”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhenphaufjhzuphp qqjgychosugpaxstjqhasxt
oejhyxxlhxahfenyqynljhjfpoupchzenfehXiyxgplcheuqh. pohijjghuqtnsngbhox
ughugbschugqh gmyjupugohjvmsjppnxgk

“RsxgplchnphxgjhxahoejhpxgphxahFx gohLnsnyyhNrugxrnofehRsxgplc,hugqhxgj
xahoejhangjpohpmjfntjgphxahoejhbnyqjqhcx oehxahMjojspi sbkhNhtuqjhenp
ufw ungougfjhnghOrjshzejghNhzuphoejsjhxghxaanfnuyhi pngjpp,hugqhejhfutj
oejsjhaxshoejhyjrchxahsjfs nopkhAjusa yychsnfe,heugqpxtj,hbsjuo
fxggjfonxgp,hughunqj-qj-futm,hugqhznoehuyyhoeuohuhrjschgnfj,
bxxq-guo sjqhajyyxzkhI ohej’phtxsjhoeughpntmychuhbxxq-guo sjqhajyyxz,
uphN’rjhax gqhx ohejsj—ej’phuhf yonruojqhtug,hoxx,hugqhrjsc
ngojyynbjgo;hej’phuhtughzex’yyhtuljhenphtuslk”

Yjrnghpfxzyjqhugqhzuphq tik

“Zjyy,hejho sgjqh mhejsjhpxxghuaojshcx ’qhbxgj,hugqhuphNhfughpjj,hej’p
xrjshejuqhugqhjusphnghyxrjhznoehLnooc,hugqhcx hlgxzhoeuohejs
txoejskkkk”

“Jvf pjhtj,hi ohNhlgxzhgxoengb,”hpunqhYjrng,hasxzgngbhbyxxtnyckhUgq
nttjqnuojychejhsjfxyyjfojqhenphisxoejshGnlxyuchugqhexzheuoja yhejhzup
oxheurjhijjghuiyjhoxhaxsbjohentk

“Cx hzunohuhino,hzunohuhino,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbhugq
ox fengbhenpheugqkh“N’rjhoxyqhcx hzeuohNhlgxz,hugqhNhsjmjuohoeuohng
oenphqjynfuojhugqhojgqjshtuoojs,huphaushuphxgjhfughfxg.jfo sj,hN
ijynjrjhoejhfeugfjphusjhnghcx shaurxsk”

Yjrnghqsxmmjqhiuflhnghenphfeuns;henphaufjhzuphmuyjk

“I ohNhzx yqhuqrnpjhcx hoxhpjooyjhoejhoengbhuphpxxghuphtuchij,”hm sp jq
Xiyxgplc,hanyyngbh mhenphbyuppk

“Gx,hoeuglp,hNhfug’ohqsnglhugchtxsj,”hpunqhYjrng,hm pengbhuzuchenp
byuppkh“Nhpeuyyhijhqs glkkkkhFxtj,hojyyhtjhexzhusjhcx hbjoongbhxg?”hej
zjgohxg,hxirnx pychugvnx phoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxgk

“Xgjhzxsqhtxsj:hnghugchfupjhNhuqrnpjhcx hoxhpjooyjhoejhw jponxghpxxgk
OxgnbeohNhqxg’ohuqrnpjhcx hoxhpmjul,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Bx
sx gqhoxtxssxzhtxsgngb,htuljhughxaajshnghq jhaxst,hugqhBxqhiyjpp
cx kkkk”

“Xe,hqxhcx hponyyhoenglhxahfxtngbhoxhtjhaxshpxtjhpexxongb?hFxtjhgjvo
pmsngb,hqx,”hpunqhYjrngk

Gxzhenphzexyjhpx yhzupha yyhxahsjtxspjhoeuohejheuqhijb ghoenp
fxgrjspuonxghznoehPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhUhajjyngbhp fehuphenphzup
msxaugjqhichouylhxahoejhsnruyschxahpxtjhMjojspi sbhxaanfjs,hxahoej
p mmxpnonxgphugqhoejhfx gpjyphxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqkhEjhlgjzhzeuohzuphmuppngbhnghYjrng’phpx yk

“N’yyhfxtjhpxtjhquc,”hejhpunqkh“I ohzxtjg,htchixc,hoejc’sjhoejhmnrxo
jrjscoengbho sgph mxgkhOengbphusjhnghuhiuqhzuchznoehtj,hrjschiuqkhUgq
no’phuyyhoesx behzxtjgkhOjyyhtjhasuglychgxz,”hejhm sp jq,hmnflngbh mhu
fnbushugqhljjmngbhxgjheugqhxghenphbyupp;h“bnrjhtjhcx shuqrnfjk”

“Zec,hzeuohnphno?”

“N’yyhojyyhcx khP mmxpjhcx ’sjhtussnjq,hcx hyxrjhcx shznaj,hi ohcx ’sj
aupfnguojqhichugxoejshzxtugkkkk”

“Jvf pjhtj,hi ohN’thuipxy ojych guiyjhoxhfxtmsjejgqhexzhkkkh. pohuphN
fug’ohfxtmsjejgqhexzhNhfx yqhgxz,huaojshtchqnggjs,hbxhposunbeohoxhu
iuljs’phpexmhugqhpojuyhuhsxyyk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phjcjphpmuslyjqhtxsjhoeugh p uyk

“Zechgxo?hUhsxyyhznyyhpxtjontjphptjyyhpxhbxxqhxgjhfug’ohsjpnpohnok”

“Enttynpfehnpo’p,hzjgghnfehijdz gbjg

hhhhTjngjhnsqnpfejhIjbnjs;

Uijshqxfehzjgg’phgnfehbjy gbjg

hhhhEuoo’hnfehu fehsjfeoheüipfehMyunpns!”



Uphejhpunqhoenp,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqhp ioyckhYjrng,hoxx,hfx yq
gxohejymhptnyngbk

“Cjp,hi oh.xlngbhumuso,”hsjp tjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h“cx ht po
 gqjspougqhoeuohoejhzxtughnphuhpzjjo,hbjgoyjhyxrngbhfsjuo sj,hmxxshugq
yxgjyc,hugqheuphpufsnanfjqhjrjscoengbkhGxz,hzejghoejhoengb’phqxgj,
qxg’ohcx hpjj,hfughxgjhmxppniychfupohejshxaa?hJrjghp mmxpngbhxgjhmusop
asxthejs,hpxhuphgxohoxhisjulh mhxgj’phautnychynaj,hponyy,hfughxgjhejym
ajjyngbhaxshejs,hpjoongbhejshxghejshajjo,hpxaojgngbhejshyxo?”

“Zjyy,hcx ht pohjvf pjhtjhoejsjkhCx hlgxzhoxhtjhuyyhzxtjghusjhqnrnqjq
ngoxhozxhfyuppjphkkkhuohyjupohgxhkkkhos jshoxhpuc:hoejsjhusjhzxtjghugq
oejsjhusjhkkkhN’rjhgjrjshpjjghjvw npnojhauyyjghijngbp,hugqhNhgjrjs
peuyyhpjjhoejt,hi ohp fehfsjuo sjphuphoeuohmungojqhAsjgfezxtughuohoej
fx gojshznoehoejhsngbyjophusjhrjstnghoxhtchtngq,hugqhuyyhauyyjghzxtjg
usjhoejhputjk”

“I ohoejhTubquyjg?”

“Ue,hqsxmhoeuo!hFesnpohzx yqhgjrjsheurjhpunqhoexpjhzxsqphnahEjheuq
lgxzghexzhoejchzx yqhijhui pjqkhXahuyyhoejhBxpmjyhoexpjhzxsqphusjhoej
xgychxgjphsjtjtijsjqkhExzjrjs,hN’thgxohpucngbhpxht fehzeuohNhoengl,hup
zeuohNhajjykhNheurjhuhyxuoengbhaxshauyyjghzxtjgkhCx ’sjhuasunqhxa
pmnqjsp,hugqhNhxahoejpjhrjstngkhTxpohynljychcx ’rjhgxohtuqjhuhpo qchxa
pmnqjsphugqhqxg’ohlgxzhoejnshfeusufojs;hugqhpxhnohnphznoehtjk”

“No’phrjschzjyyhaxshcx hoxhouylhynljhoeuo;hno’phrjscht fehynljhoeuo
bjgoyjtughnghQnfljgphzexh pjqhoxhayngbhuyyhqnaanf yohw jponxgphxrjshenp
snbeohpex yqjskhI ohoxhqjgchoejhaufophnphgxhugpzjskhZeuo’phoxhij
qxgj—cx hojyyhtjhoeuo,hzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hCx shznajhbjophxyqjs,hzenyj
cx ’sjha yyhxahynajkhIjaxsjhcx ’rjhontjhoxhyxxlhsx gq,hcx hajjyhoeuo
cx hfug’ohyxrjhcx shznajhznoehyxrj,hexzjrjsht fehcx htuchjpojjthejsk
Ugqhoejghuyyhuohxgfjhyxrjho sgph m,hugqhcx ’sjhqxgjhaxs,hqxgjhaxs,”
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhznoehzjuschqjpmunsk

Yjrngheuyahptnyjqk

“Cjp,hcx ’sjhqxgjhaxs,”hsjp tjqhXiyxgplckh“I ohzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?”

“Qxg’ohpojuyhsxyypk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehyu bejqhx osnbeok

“Xe,htxsuynpo!hI ohcx ht poh gqjspougq,hoejsjhusjhozxhzxtjg;hxgj
ngpnpophxgychxghejshsnbeop,hugqhoexpjhsnbeophusjhcx shyxrj,hzenfehcx 
fug’ohbnrjhejs;hugqhoejhxoejshpufsnanfjphjrjscoengbhaxshcx hugqhuplp
axshgxoengbkhZeuohusjhcx hoxhqx?hExzhusjhcx hoxhufo?hOejsj’phuhajusa y
osubjqchnghnok”

“Nahcx hfusjhaxshtchmsxajppnxghxahaunoehuphsjbusqphoeuo,hN’yyhojyyhcx 
oeuohNhqxg’ohijynjrjhoejsjhzuphugchosubjqchuix ohnokhUgqhoenphnphzeck
Oxhtchtngq,hyxrjhkkkhixoehoejhpxsophxahyxrj,hzenfehcx hsjtjtijshMyuox
qjangjphnghenphIugw jo,hpjsrjqhuphoejhojpohxahtjgkhPxtjhtjghxgyc
 gqjspougqhxgjhpxso,hugqhpxtjhxgychoejhxoejskhUgqhoexpjhzexhxgychlgxz
oejhgxg-myuoxgnfhyxrjheurjhgxhgjjqhoxhouylhxahosubjqckhNghp fehyxrj
oejsjhfughijhgxhpxsohxahosubjqckh‘N’tht fehxiynbjqhaxshoej
bsuonanfuonxg,htche tiyjhsjpmjfop’—oeuo’phuyyhoejhosubjqckhUgqhng
myuoxgnfhyxrjhoejsjhfughijhgxhosubjqc,hijfu pjhnghoeuohyxrjhuyyhnp
fyjushugqhm sj,hijfu pjkkkk”

UohoeuohngpougohYjrnghsjfxyyjfojqhenphxzghpngphugqhoejhnggjshfxgaynfo
ejheuqhynrjqhoesx bekhUgqhejhuqqjqh gjvmjfojqyc:

“I ohmjseumphcx husjhsnbeokhRjschynljychkkkhNhqxg’ohlgxz,hNhqxg’o
lgxzk”

“No’phoenp,hqxg’ohcx hpjj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h“cx ’sjhrjscht fe
uyyhxahuhmnjfjkhOeuo’phcx shposxgbhmxngohugqhcx shaunyngbkhCx heurjhu
feusufojshoeuo’phuyyhxahuhmnjfj,hugqhcx hzugohoejhzexyjhxahynajhoxhij
xahuhmnjfjhoxx—i ohoeuo’phgxohexzhnohnpkhCx hqjpmnpjhm iynfhxaanfnuy
zxslhijfu pjhcx hzugohoejhsjuynochoxhijhngrusnuiychfxssjpmxgqngbhuyy
oejhzenyjhznoehoejhunt—ugqhoeuo’phgxohexzhnohnpkhCx hzugohuhtug’phzxsl,
oxx,huyzucphoxheurjhuhqjangjqhunt,hugqhyxrjhugqhautnychynajhuyzucphox
ijh gqnrnqjq—ugqhoeuo’phgxohexzhnohnpkhUyyhoejhrusnjoc,huyyhoejhfeust,
uyyhoejhiju ochxahynajhnphtuqjh mhxahynbeohugqhpeuqxzk”

YjrnghpnbejqhugqhtuqjhgxhsjmyckhEjhzuphoenglngbhxahenphxzghuaaunsp,hugq
qnqhgxohejushXiyxgplck

Ugqhp qqjgychixoehxahoejthajyohoeuohoex behoejchzjsjhasnjgqp,hoex be
oejcheuqhijjghqngngbhugqhqsnglngbhoxbjoejs,hzenfehpex yqheurjhqsuzg
oejthfyxpjs,hcjohjufehzuphoenglngbhxgychxahenphxzghuaaunsp,hugqhoejc
euqhgxoengbhoxhqxhznoehxgjhugxoejskhXiyxgplcheuqhtxsjhoeughxgfj
jvmjsnjgfjqhoenphjvosjtjhpjgpjhxahuyxxagjpp,hngpojuqhxahngontufc,
fxtngbhxghuaojshqnggjs,hugqhejhlgjzhzeuohoxhqxhnghp fehfupjpk

“Inyy!”hejhfuyyjq,hugqhejhzjgohngoxhoejhgjvohsxxthzejsjhejhmsxtmoyc
futjhufsxpphughunqj-qj-futmhxahenphufw ungougfjhugqhqsxmmjqhngox
fxgrjspuonxghznoehenthuix ohughufosjpphugqhejshmsxojfoxskhUgqhuohxgfj
nghoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhunqj-qj-futmhXiyxgplcheuqhuhpjgpjhxa
sjyuvuonxghugqhsjynjahuaojshoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehYjrng,hzenfehuyzucp
m ohenthoxhoxxhbsjuohuhtjgouyhugqhpmnsno uyhposungk

ZejghoejhOuoushummjusjqhznoehuhinyyhaxshozjgoc-pnvhsx iyjphugqhxqq
lxmjflp,hijpnqjphuhonmhaxshentpjya,hYjrng,hzexhzx yqhugxoejshontjheurj
ijjghexssnanjq,hynljhugcxgjhasxthoejhfx gosc,huohenphpeusjhxahax sojjg
sx iyjp,hqnqhgxohgxonfjhno,hmunq,hugqhpjohxaahextjzusqphoxhqsjpphugqhbx
oxhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hoejsjhoxhqjfnqjhenphauojk


Feumojsh12

Oejhcx gbhMsngfjpphLnoochPeofejsiuoplucuhzuphjnbeojjgkhNohzuphoejhanspo
zngojshoeuohpejheuqhijjghx ohnghoejhzxsyqkhEjshp ffjpphnghpxfnjocheuq
ijjghbsjuojshoeughoeuohxahjnoejshxahejshjyqjshpnpojsp,hugqhbsjuojshjrjg
oeughejshtxoejsheuqhugonfnmuojqkhOxhpuchgxoengbhxahoejhcx gbhtjghzex
qugfjqhuohoejhTxpfxzhiuyyphijngbhuytxpohuyyhnghyxrjhznoehLnooc,hozx
pjsnx php noxspheuqhuysjuqchoenphanspohzngojshtuqjhoejnshummjusugfj:
Yjrng,hugqhnttjqnuojychuaojshenphqjmuso sj,hFx gohRsxgplck

Yjrng’phummjusugfjhuohoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhzngojs,henphasjw jgohrnpnop,
ugqhjrnqjgohyxrjhaxshLnooc,heuqhyjqhoxhoejhanspohpjsnx phfxgrjspuonxgp
ijozjjghLnooc’phmusjgophuphoxhejsha o sj,hugqhoxhqnpm ojphijozjjghoejtk
OejhmsngfjhzuphxghYjrng’phpnqj;hejhpunqhejhznpejqhaxshgxoengbhijoojs
axshLnoockhOejhmsngfjpphaxshejshmuso,hbxngbhsx gqhoejhw jponxghnghoej
tuggjshmjf ynushoxhzxtjg,htungoungjqhoeuohLnoochzuphoxxhcx gb,hoeuo
Yjrngheuqhqxgjhgxoengbhoxhmsxrjhoeuohejheuqhpjsnx phngojgonxgp,hoeuo
Lnoochajyohgxhbsjuohuoosufonxghoxhent,hugqhxoejshpnqjhnpp jp;hi ohpej
qnqhgxohpouojhoejhmsngfnmuyhmxngo,hzenfehzuphoeuohpejhyxxljqhaxshu
ijoojshtuofehaxshejshqu beojs,hugqhoeuohYjrnghzuphgxohoxhejshynlngb,
ugqhpejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhentkhZejghYjrngheuqhuis moychqjmusojq,hoej
msngfjpphzuphqjynbeojq,hugqhpunqhoxhejshe piugqhosn tmeugoyc:h“Cx hpjj
Nhzuphsnbeok”hZejghRsxgplchummjusjqhxghoejhpfjgj,hpejhzuphponyyhtxsj
qjynbeojq,hfxganstjqhnghejshxmngnxghoeuohLnoochzuphoxhtuljhgxohpntmychu
bxxq,hi ohuhisnyynugohtuofek

Nghoejhtxoejs’phjcjphoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhfxtmusnpxghijozjjghRsxgplchugq
YjrngkhPejhqnpynljqhnghYjrnghenphposugbjhugqh gfxtmsxtnpngbhxmngnxgp
ugqhenphpecgjpphnghpxfnjoc,hax gqjq,huphpejhp mmxpjq,hxghenphmsnqjhugq
enphw jjshpxsohxahynaj,huphpejhfxgpnqjsjqhno,huipxsijqhnghfuooyjhugq
mjupugopkhPejhqnqhgxohrjscht fehynljhnohoeuohej,hzexhzuphnghyxrjhznoe
ejshqu beojs,heuqhljmohfxtngbhoxhoejhex pjhaxshpnvhzjjlp,huphoex behej
zjsjhzunongbhaxshpxtjoengb,hngpmjfongb,huphoex behejhzjsjhuasunqhej
tnbeohijhqxngbhoejthoxxhbsjuohughexgxshichtulngbhughxaajs,hugqhqnqhgxo
sjuyndjhoeuohuhtug,hzexhfxgong uyychrnpnophuohuhex pjhzejsjhoejsjhnphu
cx gbh gtussnjqhbnsy,hnphix gqhoxhtuljhenphngojgonxgphfyjuskhUgq
p qqjgyc,hznoex ohqxngbhpx,hejhqnpummjusjqkh“No’phuphzjyyhej’phgxo
uoosufonrjhjgx behaxshLnoochoxheurjhauyyjghnghyxrjhznoehent,”hoex beo
oejhtxoejsk

Rsxgplchpuonpanjqhuyyhoejhtxoejs’phqjpnsjpkhRjschzjuyoec,hfyjrjs,hxa
usnpoxfsuonfhautnyc,hxghoejhenbesxuqhoxhuhisnyynugohfusjjshnghoejhustc
ugqhuohfx so,hugqhuhaupfnguongbhtugkhGxoengbhijoojshfx yqhijhznpejq
axsk

RsxgplchxmjgychaynsojqhznoehLnoochuohiuyyp,hqugfjqhznoehejs,hugqhfutj
fxgong uyychoxhoejhex pj,hfxgpjw jgoychoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx iohxahoej
pjsnx pgjpphxahenphngojgonxgpkhI o,hnghpmnojhxahoeuo,hoejhtxoejsheuq
pmjgohoejhzexyjhxahoeuohzngojshnghuhpouojhxahojssniyjhugvnjochugq
ubnouonxgk

MsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucuheuqhejspjyahijjghtussnjqhoensochcjusphubx,hejs
u gohussugbngbhoejhtuofekhEjshe piugq,huix ohzexthjrjscoengbhzuphzjyy
lgxzghijaxsjeugq,heuqhfxtj,hyxxljqhuohenpha o sjhisnqj,hugqhijjghyxxljq
uokhOejhtuofetulngbhu goheuqhupfjsoungjqhugqhfxtt gnfuojqhoejnsht o uy
ntmsjppnxgkhOeuohntmsjppnxgheuqhijjghaurxsuiyjkhUaojszusqp,hxghuhquc
anvjqhijaxsjeugq,hoejhjvmjfojqhxaajshzuphtuqjhoxhejshmusjgop,hugq
uffjmojqkhUyyheuqhmuppjqhrjschpntmychugqhjupnyckhPxhnohpjjtjq,huo
yjupo,hoxhoejhmsngfjppkhI ohxrjshejshxzghqu beojsphpejheuqhajyohexzhaus
asxthpntmyjhugqhjupchnphoejhi pngjpp,hummusjgoychpxhfxttxgmyufj,hxa
tusscngbhxaahxgj’phqu beojspkhOejhmugnfphoeuoheuqhijjghynrjqhoesx be,
oejhoex beophoeuoheuqhijjghisxxqjqhxrjs,hoejhtxgjchoeuoheuqhijjg
zupojq,hugqhoejhqnpm ojphznoehejshe piugqhxrjshtusscngbhoejhozxhjyqjs
bnsyp,hQuscuhugqhGuouynu!hGxz,hpngfjhoejhcx gbjpoheuqhfxtjhx o,hpejhzup
bxngbhoesx behoejhputjhojssxsp,hoejhputjhqx iop,hugqhponyyhtxsjhrnxyjgo
w ussjyphznoehejshe piugqhoeughpejheuqhxrjshoejhjyqjshbnsypkhOejhxyq
msngfj,hynljhuyyhauoejsphngqjjq,hzuphjvfjjqngbychm gfonynx phxghoej
pfxsjhxahoejhexgxshugqhsjm ouonxghxahenphqu beojspkhEjhzuphnssuonxguyyc
.juyx phxrjshenphqu beojsp,hjpmjfnuyychxrjshLnooc,hzexhzuphenp
aurxsnojkhUohjrjscho sghejheuqhpfjgjphznoehoejhmsngfjpphaxs
fxtmsxtnpngbhejshqu beojskhOejhmsngfjppheuqhbsxzghuff poxtjqhoxhoenp
uysjuqchznoehejshxoejshqu beojsp,hi ohgxzhpejhajyohoeuohoejsjhzuphtxsj
bsx gqhaxshoejhmsngfj’phox fengjppkhPejhpuzhoeuohxahyuojhcjuspht fehzup
feugbjqhnghoejhtuggjsphxahpxfnjoc,hoeuohuhtxoejs’phq onjpheuqhijfxtj
ponyyhtxsjhqnaanf yokhPejhpuzhoeuohbnsyphxahLnooc’phubjhaxstjqhpxtj
pxsohxahfy ip,hzjgohoxhpxtjhpxsohxahyjfo sjp,htnvjqhasjjychnghtjg’p
pxfnjoc;hqsxrjhuix ohoejhposjjophuyxgj,htugchxahoejthqnqhgxohf sopjc,
ugq,hzeuohzuphoejhtxpohntmxsougohoengb,huyyhoejhbnsyphzjsjhanstyc
fxgrngfjqhoeuohoxhfexxpjhoejnshe piugqphzuphoejnshxzghuaauns,hugqhgxo
oejnshmusjgop’kh“Tussnubjphusjg’ohtuqjhgxzuqucphuphoejch pjqhoxhij,”
zuphoex beohugqhpunqhichuyyhoejpjhcx gbhbnsyp,hugqhjrjghichoejns
jyqjspkhI ohexzhtussnubjphzjsjhtuqjhgxz,hoejhmsngfjpphfx yqhgxohyjusg
asxthugcxgjkhOejhAsjgfehaupenxg—xahoejhmusjgophussugbngbhoejns
fenyqsjg’pha o sj—zuphgxohuffjmojq;hnohzuphfxgqjtgjqkhOejhJgbynpe
aupenxghxahoejhfxtmyjojhngqjmjgqjgfjhxahbnsyphzuphuypxhgxohuffjmojq,
ugqhgxohmxppniyjhnghS ppnughpxfnjockhOejhS ppnughaupenxghxahtuofetulngb
ichoejhxaanfjphxahngojstjqnuojhmjspxgphzuphaxshpxtjhsjupxghfxgpnqjsjq
 gpjjtyc;hnohzuphsnqnf yjqhichjrjscxgj,hugqhichoejhmsngfjpphejspjyak
I ohexzhbnsyphzjsjhoxhijhtussnjq,hugqhexzhmusjgophzjsjhoxhtusschoejt,
gxhxgjhlgjzkhJrjscxgjhznoehzexthoejhmsngfjppheuqhfeugfjqhoxhqnpf pphoej
tuoojshpunqhoejhputjhoengb:h“Tjsfchxgh p,hno’phenbehontjhnghx shquchox
fupohxaahuyyhoeuohxyq-aupenxgjqhi pngjppkhNo’phoejhcx gbhmjxmyjheurjhox
tussc;hugqhgxohoejnshmusjgop;hugqhpxhzjhx beohoxhyjurjhoejhcx gbhmjxmyj
oxhussugbjhnohuphoejchfexxpjk”hNohzuphrjschjupchaxshugcxgjhoxhpuchoeuo
zexheuqhgxhqu beojsp,hi ohoejhmsngfjpphsjuyndjqhoeuohnghoejhmsxfjpphxa
bjoongbhoxhlgxzhjufehxoejs,hejshqu beojshtnbeohauyyhnghyxrj,hugqhauyy
nghyxrjhznoehpxtjxgjhzexhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhtusschejshxshzexhzuphw noj
 ganohoxhijhejshe piugqkhUgq,hexzjrjsht fehnohzuphngponyyjqhngoxhoej
msngfjpphoeuohnghx shontjphcx gbhmjxmyjhx beohoxhussugbjhoejnshynrjp
axshoejtpjyrjp,hpejhzuph guiyjhoxhijynjrjhno,h. pohuphpejhzx yqheurj
ijjgh guiyjhoxhijynjrjhoeuo,huohugchontjhzeuojrjs,hoejhtxpohp nouiyj
myucoengbphaxshfenyqsjghanrjhcjusphxyqhx beohoxhijhyxuqjqhmnpoxypkhUgq
pxhoejhmsngfjpphzuphtxsjh gjupchxrjshLnoochoeughpejheuqhijjghxrjshejs
jyqjshpnpojspk

GxzhpejhzuphuasunqhoeuohRsxgplchtnbeohfxgangjhentpjyahoxhpntmyc
aynsongbhznoehejshqu beojskhPejhpuzhoeuohejshqu beojshzuphnghyxrjhznoe
ent,hi ohosnjqhoxhfxtaxsohejspjyahznoehoejhoex beohoeuohejhzuphug
exgxsuiyjhtug,hugqhzx yqhgxohqxhoenpkhI ohuohoejhputjhontjhpejhlgjzhexz
jupchnohnp,hznoehoejhasjjqxthxahtuggjsphxahoxquc,hoxho sghuhbnsy’p
ejuq,hugqhexzhynbeoychtjghbjgjsuyychsjbusqhp fehuhfsntjkhOejhzjjl
ijaxsj,hLnoocheuqhoxyqhejshtxoejshxahuhfxgrjspuonxghpejheuqhznoe
Rsxgplchq sngbhuhtud slukhOenphfxgrjspuonxgheuqhmusoychsjupp sjqhoej
msngfjpp;hi ohmjsajfoychuohjupjhpejhfx yqhgxohijkhRsxgplcheuqhoxyq
Lnoochoeuohixoehejhugqhenphisxoejshzjsjhpxh pjqhoxhxijcngbhoejnshtxoejs
oeuohoejchgjrjshtuqjh mhoejnshtngqphoxhugchntmxsougoh gqjsoulngb
znoex ohfxgp yongbhejskh“Ugqh. pohgxz,hNhuthntmuonjgoychuzunongbhtc
txoejs’phussnruyhasxthMjojspi sb,huphmjf ynusychaxso guoj,”hejhoxyq
ejsk

Lnoocheuqhsjmjuojqhoenphznoex ohuooufengbhugchpnbgnanfugfjhoxhoej
zxsqpkhI ohejshtxoejshpuzhoejthnghuhqnaajsjgohynbeokhPejhlgjzhoeuohoej
xyqhyuqchzuphjvmjfojqhasxthquchoxhquc,hoeuohpejhzx yqhijhmyjupjqhuohejs
pxg’phfexnfj,hugqhpejhajyohnohposugbjhoeuohejhpex yqhgxohtuljhenphxaajs
oesx behajushxahrjvngbhenphtxoejskhExzjrjs,hpejhzuphpxhugvnx phaxshoej
tussnubjhnopjya,hugqhponyyhtxsjhaxshsjynjahasxthejshajusp,hoeuohpej
ijynjrjqhnohzuphpxkhInoojshuphnohzuphaxshoejhmsngfjpphoxhpjjhoej
 geummngjpphxahejshjyqjpohqu beojs,hQxyyc,hxghoejhmxngohxahyjurngbhejs
e piugq,hejshugvnjochxrjshoejhqjfnpnxghxahejshcx gbjpohqu beojs’phauoj
jgbsxppjqhuyyhejshajjyngbpkhOxquc,hznoehYjrng’phsjummjusugfj,huhasjpe
px sfjhxahugvnjochusxpjkhPejhzuphuasunqhoeuohejshqu beojs,hzexheuqhuo
xgjhontj,huphpejhaugfnjq,huhajjyngbhaxshYjrng,htnbeo,hasxthjvosjtj
pjgpjhxahexgxs,hsja pjhRsxgplc,hugqhoeuohYjrng’phussnruyhtnbeo
bjgjsuyychfxtmynfuojhugqhqjyuchoejhuaaunshpxhgjushijngbhfxgfy qjqk

“Zec,heuphejhijjghejsjhyxgb?”hoejhmsngfjpphupljqhuix ohYjrng,huphoejc
sjo sgjqhextjk

“Ejhfutjhoxquc,htuttuk”

“Oejsj’phxgjhoengbhNhzugohoxhpuckkkk”hijbughoejhmsngfjpp,hugqhasxthejs
pjsnx phugqhuyjsohaufj,hLnoochb jppjqhzeuohnohzx yqhijk

“Tuttu,”hpejhpunq,hay pengbhexoychugqho sgngbhw nflychoxhejs,h“myjupj,
myjupjhqxg’ohpuchugcoengbhuix ohoeuokhNhlgxz,hNhlgxzhuyyhuix ohnok”

Pejhznpejqhaxshzeuohejshtxoejshznpejqhaxs,hi ohoejhtxonrjphxahejs
txoejs’phznpejphzx gqjqhejsk

“Nhxgychzugohoxhpuchoeuohoxhsunpjhexmjpkkkk”

“Tuttu,hqusyngb,haxshbxxqgjpp’hpulj,hqxg’ohouylhuix ohnokhNo’phpx
exssniyjhoxhouylhuix ohnok”

“Nhzxg’o,”hpunqhejshtxoejs,hpjjngbhoejhojusphnghejshqu beojs’phjcjp;
“i ohxgjhoengb,htchyxrj;hcx hmsxtnpjqhtjhcx hzx yqheurjhgxhpjfsjophasxt
tjkhCx hzxg’o?”

“Gjrjs,htuttu,hgxgj,”hugpzjsjqhLnooc,hay pengbhuhynooyj,hugqhyxxlngb
ejshtxoejshposunbeohnghoejhaufj,h“i ohoejsj’phgxh pjhnghtchojyyngbhcx 
ugcoengb,hugqhNhkkkhNhkkkhnahNhzugojqhox,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohoxhpuchxs
exzkkkkhNhqxg’ohlgxzkkkk”

“Gx,hpejhfx yqhgxohojyyhugh gos oehznoehoexpjhjcjp,”hoex beohoej
txoejs,hptnyngbhuohejshubnouonxghugqheummngjppkhOejhmsngfjpphptnyjq
oeuohzeuohzuphoulngbhmyufjh. pohgxzhnghejshpx yhpjjtjqhoxhoejhmxxs
fenyqhpxhnttjgpjhugqhpxhntmxsougok


Feumojsh13

Uaojshqnggjs,hugqhonyyhoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhjrjgngb,hLnoochzuphajjyngb
uhpjgpuonxghulnghoxhoejhpjgpuonxghxahuhcx gbhtughijaxsjhuhiuooyjkhEjs
ejusohoesxiijqhrnxyjgoyc,hugqhejshoex beophzx yqhgxohsjpohxghugcoengbk

Pejhajyohoeuohoenphjrjgngb,hzejghoejchzx yqhixoehtjjohaxshoejhanspo
ontj,hzx yqhijhuho sgngbhmxngohnghejshynajkhUgqhpejhzuphfxgong uyyc
mnfo sngbhoejthoxhejspjya,huohxgjhtxtjgohjufehpjmusuojyc,hugqhoejghixoe
oxbjoejskhZejghpejht pjqhxghoejhmupo,hpejhqzjyohznoehmyjup sj,hznoe
ojgqjsgjpp,hxghoejhtjtxsnjphxahejshsjyuonxgphznoehYjrngkhOejhtjtxsnjp
xahfenyqexxqhugqhxahYjrng’phasnjgqpenmhznoehejshqjuqhisxoejshburjhu
pmjfnuyhmxjonfhfeusthoxhejshsjyuonxgphznoehentkhEnphyxrjhaxshejs,hxa
zenfehpejhajyohfjsoung,hzuphayuoojsngbhugqhqjynbeoa yhoxhejs;hugqhno
zuphmyjupugohaxshejshoxhoenglhxahYjrngkhNghejshtjtxsnjphxahRsxgplc
oejsjhuyzucphjgojsjqhuhfjsounghjyjtjgohxahuzlzusqgjpp,hoex behejhzuphng
oejhenbejpohqjbsjjhzjyy-isjqhugqhuohjupj,huphoex behoejsjhzjsjhpxtj
auypjhgxoj—gxohnghRsxgplc,hejhzuphrjschpntmyjhugqhgnfj,hi ohnghejspjya,
zenyjhznoehYjrnghpejhajyohmjsajfoychpntmyjhugqhfyjuskhI o,hxghoejhxoejs
eugq,hqnsjfoychpejhoex beohxahoejha o sjhznoehRsxgplc,hoejsjhusxpj
ijaxsjhejshuhmjspmjfonrjhxahisnyynugoheummngjpp;hznoehYjrnghoejha o sj
pjjtjqhtnpock

Zejghpejhzjgoh mpounsphoxhqsjpp,hugqhyxxljqhngoxhoejhyxxlngb-byupp,hpej
gxonfjqhznoeh.xchoeuohnohzuphxgjhxahejshbxxqhqucp,hugqhoeuohpejhzuphng
fxtmyjojhmxppjppnxghxahuyyhejshaxsfjp,—pejhgjjqjqhoenphpxhaxshzeuohyuc
ijaxsjhejs:hpejhzuphfxgpfnx phxahjvojsguyhfxtmxp sjhugqhasjjhbsufjhng
ejshtxrjtjgopk

Uoheuya-mupohpjrjghpejheuqhxgych. pohbxgjhqxzghngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,
zejghoejhaxxotughuggx gfjq,h“LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehYjrngk”hOej
msngfjpphzuphponyyhnghejshsxxt,hugqhoejhmsngfjheuqhgxohfxtjhngkh“Pxhno
nphoxhij,”hoex beohLnooc,hugqhuyyhoejhiyxxqhpjjtjqhoxhs pehoxhejs
ejusokhPejhzuphexssnanjqhuohejshmuyjgjpp,huphpejhbyugfjqhngoxhoej
yxxlngb-byuppkhUohoeuohtxtjgohpejhlgjzhijcxgqhqx iohoeuohejheuqhfxtj
jusychxghm smxpjhoxhangqhejshuyxgjhugqhoxhtuljhejshughxaajskhUgqhxgyc
oejghaxshoejhanspohontjhoejhzexyjhoengbhmsjpjgojqhnopjyahnghuhgjz,
qnaajsjgohupmjfo;hxgychoejghpejhsjuyndjqhoeuohoejhw jponxghqnqhgxo
uaajfohejshxgyc—znoehzexthpejhzx yqhijheummc,hugqhzexthpejhyxrjq—i o
oeuohpejhzx yqheurjhoeuohtxtjgohoxhzx gqhuhtughzexthpejhynljqkhUgqhox
zx gqhenthfs jyyckhZeuohaxs?hIjfu pjhej,hqjushajyyxz,hyxrjqhejs,hzuphng
yxrjhznoehejskhI ohoejsjhzuphgxhejymhaxshno,hpxhnoht pohij,hpxhnohzx yq
eurjhoxhijk

“TchBxq!hpeuyyhNhtcpjyahsjuyycheurjhoxhpuchnohoxhent?”hpejhoex beok
“FughNhojyyhenthNhqxg’ohyxrjhent?hOeuohznyyhijhuhynjkhZeuohuthNhoxhpuc
oxhent?hOeuohNhyxrjhpxtjxgjhjypj?hGx,hoeuo’phntmxppniyjkhN’thbxngb
uzuc,hN’thbxngbhuzuck”

Pejheuqhsjufejqhoejhqxxs,hzejghpejhejusqhenphpojmkh“Gx!hno’phgxo
exgjpokhZeuoheurjhNhoxhijhuasunqhxa?hNheurjhqxgjhgxoengbhzsxgbkhZeuohnp
oxhij,hznyyhij!hN’yyhojyyhoejhos oekhUgqhznoehenthxgjhfug’ohijhnyyhuo
jupjkhEjsjhejhnp,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hpjjngbhenphmxzjsa y,hpec
anb sj,hznoehenphpengngbhjcjphanvjqhxghejskhPejhyxxljqhposunbeohngox
enphaufj,huphoex behntmyxsngbhenthoxhpmusjhejs,hugqhburjhejsheugqk

“No’phgxohontjhcjo;hNhoenglhN’thoxxhjusyc,”hejhpunqhbyugfngbhsx gqhoej
jtmochqsuzngb-sxxtkhZejghejhpuzhoeuohenphjvmjfouonxgphzjsjhsjuyndjq,
oeuohoejsjhzuphgxoengbhoxhmsjrjgohenthasxthpmjulngb,henphaufjhijfutj
byxxtck

“Xe,hgx,”hpunqhLnooc,hugqhpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyjk

“I ohoenphzuph. pohzeuohNhzugojq,hoxhangqhcx huyxgj,”hejhijbug,hgxo
pnoongbhqxzg,hugqhgxohyxxlngbhuohejs,hpxhuphgxohoxhyxpjhfx subjk

“TuttuhznyyhijhqxzghqnsjfoyckhPejhzuphrjscht fehonsjqkkkk
Cjpojsquckkkk”

Pejhouyljqhxg,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohejshynmphzjsjh oojsngb,hugqhgxohoulngb
ejshp mmynfuongbhugqhfusjppngbhjcjphxaahentk

Ejhbyugfjqhuohejs;hpejhiy pejq,hugqhfjupjqhpmjulngbk

“Nhoxyqhcx hNhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshNhpex yqhijhejsjhyxgbhkkkhoeuohno
qjmjgqjqhxghcx kkkk”

Pejhqsxmmjqhejshejuqhyxzjshugqhyxzjs,hgxohlgxzngbhejspjyahzeuohugpzjs
pejhpex yqhtuljhoxhzeuohzuphfxtngbk

“Oeuohnohqjmjgqjqhxghcx ,”hejhsjmjuojqkh“NhtjugohoxhpuchkkkhNhtjugohox
puchkkkhNhfutjhaxshoenphkkkhoxhijhtchznaj!”hejhisx beohx o,hgxohlgxzngb
zeuohejhzuphpucngb;hi ohajjyngbhoeuohoejhtxpohojssniyjhoengbhzuphpunq,
ejhpoxmmjqhpexsohugqhyxxljqhuohejskkkk

Pejhzuphisjuoengbhejurnyc,hgxohyxxlngbhuohentkhPejhzuphajjyngbhjfpoupck
Ejshpx yhzuphayxxqjqhznoeheummngjppkhPejheuqhgjrjshugonfnmuojqhoeuohoej
 oojsugfjhxahyxrjhzx yqhmsxq fjhp fehuhmxzjsa yhjaajfohxghejskhI ohno
yupojqhxgychughngpougokhPejhsjtjtijsjqhRsxgplckhPejhynaojqhejshfyjus,
os oea yhjcjp,hugqhpjjngbhenphqjpmjsuojhaufj,hpejhugpzjsjqheuponyc:

“Oeuohfuggxohijhkkkhaxsbnrjhtjk”

Uhtxtjgohubx,hugqhexzhfyxpjhpejheuqhijjghoxhent,hxahzeuohntmxsougfjhng
enphynaj!hUgqhexzhuyxxahugqhsjtxojhasxthenthpejheuqhijfxtjhgxz!

“Nohzuphix gqhoxhijhpx,”hejhpunq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohejsk

Ejhixzjq,hugqhzuphtjugngbhoxhsjosjuok


Feumojsh14

I ohuohoeuohrjschtxtjgohoejhmsngfjpphfutjhngkhOejsjhzuphuhyxxlhxa
exssxshxghejshaufjhzejghpejhpuzhoejthuyxgj,hugqhoejnshqnpo sijqhaufjpk
Yjrnghixzjqhoxhejs,hugqhpunqhgxoengbkhLnoochqnqhgxohpmjulhgxshynaohejs
jcjpkh“OeuglhBxq,hpejheuphsja pjqhent,”hoex beohoejhtxoejs,hugqhejs
aufjhynbeojqh mhznoehoejheuino uyhptnyjhznoehzenfehpejhbsjjojqhejs
b jpophxghOe spqucpkhPejhpuohqxzghugqhijbughw jponxgngbhYjrnghuix ohenp
ynajhnghoejhfx gosckhEjhpuohqxzghubung,hzunongbhaxshxoejshrnpnoxsphox
ussnrj,hnghxsqjshoxhsjosjuoh ggxonfjqk

Anrjhtng ojphyuojshoejsjhfutjhnghuhasnjgqhxahLnooc’p,htussnjqhoej
msjfjqngbhzngojs,hFx gojpphGxsqpoxgk

Pejhzuphuhoeng,hpuyyxz,hpnflyc,hugqhgjsrx phzxtug,hznoehisnyynugohiyufl
jcjpkhPejhzuphaxgqhxahLnooc,hugqhejshuaajfonxghaxshejshpexzjqhnopjya,
uphoejhuaajfonxghxahtussnjqhzxtjghaxshbnsyphuyzucphqxjp,hnghoejhqjpnsj
oxhtuljhuhtuofehaxshLnoochuaojshejshxzghnqjuyhxahtussnjqheummngjpp;hpej
zugojqhejshoxhtusschRsxgplckhYjrnghpejheuqhxaojghtjohuohoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hjusychnghoejhzngojs,hugqhpejheuqhuyzucphqnpynljqhentk
Ejshngrusnuiyjhugqhaurxsnojhm sp no,hzejghoejchtjo,hfxgpnpojqhnghtulngb
a ghxahentk

“Nhqxhynljhnohzejghejhyxxlphqxzghuohtjhasxthoejhejnbeohxahenphbsugqj s,
xshisjulphxaahenphyjusgjqhfxgrjspuonxghznoehtjhijfu pjhN’thuhaxxy,hxs
nphfxgqjpfjgqngbhoxhtjkhNhynljhoeuohpx;hoxhpjjhenthfxgqjpfjgqngb!hNhut
pxhbyuqhejhfug’ohijushtj,”hpejh pjqhoxhpuchxahentk

Pejhzuphsnbeo,haxshYjrnghufo uyychfx yqhgxohijushejs,hugqhqjpmnpjqhejs
axshzeuohpejhzuphmsx qhxahugqhsjbusqjqhuphuhangjhfeusufojsnponf—ejs
gjsrx pgjpp,hejshqjynfuojhfxgojtmohugqhngqnaajsjgfjhaxshjrjscoengb
fxuspjhugqhjusoeyck

OejhFx gojpphGxsqpoxghugqhYjrnghbxohngoxhoeuohsjyuonxghznoehxgjhugxoejs
gxohpjyqxthpjjghnghpxfnjoc,hzejghozxhmjspxgp,hzexhsjtunghjvojsguyychxg
asnjgqychojstp,hqjpmnpjhjufehxoejshoxhp fehuhqjbsjjhoeuohoejchfuggxo
jrjghouljhjufehxoejshpjsnx pyc,hugqhfuggxohjrjghijhxaajgqjqhichjufe
xoejsk

OejhFx gojpphGxsqpoxghmx gfjqh mxghYjrnghuohxgfjk

“Ue,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe!hPxhcx ’rjhfxtjhiuflhoxhx shfxss mo
Iuicyxg,”hpejhpunq,hbnrngbhenthejshongc,hcjyyxzheugq,hugqhsjfuyyngb
zeuohejheuqhfeugfjqhoxhpuchjusychnghoejhzngojs,hoeuohTxpfxzhzuphu
Iuicyxgkh“Fxtj,hnphIuicyxghsjaxstjq,hxsheurjhcx hqjbjgjsuojq?”hpej
uqqjq,hbyugfngbhznoehuhpntmjshuohLnoock

“No’phrjschayuoojsngbhaxshtj,hfx gojpp,hoeuohcx hsjtjtijshtchzxsqphpx
zjyy,”hsjpmxgqjqhYjrng,hzexheuqhp ffjjqjqhnghsjfxrjsngbhenphfxtmxp sj,
ugqhuohxgfjhasxtheuinohqsxmmjqhngoxhenphoxgjhxah.xlngbhexponynochoxhoej
Fx gojpphGxsqpoxgkh“Oejcht pohfjsoungychtuljhuhbsjuohntmsjppnxghxg
cx k”

“Xe,hNhpex yqhoenglhpx!hNhuyzucphgxojhoejthuyyhqxzgkhZjyy,hLnooc,heurj
cx hijjghpluongbhubung?kkk”

UgqhpejhijbughouylngbhoxhLnoockhUzlzusqhuphnohzuphaxshYjrnghoxhznoeqsuz
gxz,hnohzx yqhponyyheurjhijjghjupnjshaxshenthoxhmjsmjosuojhoenp
uzlzusqgjpphoeughoxhsjtunghuyyhoejhjrjgngbhugqhpjjhLnooc,hzexhbyugfjq
uohenthgxzhugqhoejghugqhurxnqjqhenphjcjpkhEjhzuphxghoejhmxngohxa
bjoongbh m,hzejghoejhmsngfjpp,hgxonfngbhoeuohejhzuphpnyjgo,huqqsjppjq
entk

“Peuyyhcx hijhyxgbhnghTxpfxz?hCx ’sjhi pchznoehoejhqnposnfohfx gfny,
oex be,husjg’ohcx ,hugqhfug’ohijhuzuchaxshyxgb?”

“Gx,hmsngfjpp,hN’thgxhyxgbjshuhtjtijshxahoejhfx gfny,”hejhpunqkh“Nheurj
fxtjh mhaxshuhajzhqucpk”

“Oejsj’phpxtjoengbhoejhtuoojshznoehent,”hoex beohFx gojpphGxsqpoxg,
byugfngbhuohenphpojsg,hpjsnx phaufjkh“Ejhnpg’ohnghenphxyqhusb tjgouonrj
txxqkhI ohN’yyhqsuzhenthx okhNhqxhyxrjhtulngbhuhaxxyhxahenthijaxsj
Lnooc,hugqhN’yyhqxhnok”

“LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hpejhpunqhoxhent,h“qxhjvmyunghoxhtj,hmyjupj,
zeuo’phoejhtjugngbhxahnokhCx hlgxzhuyyhuix ohp fehoengbpkhUohextjhng
x shrnyyubjhxahLuy buhuyyhoejhmjupugophugqhuyyhoejhzxtjgheurjhqs glh m
uyyhoejchmxppjppjq,hugqhgxzhoejchfug’ohmuch phugchsjgokhZeuo’phoej
tjugngbhxahoeuo?hCx huyzucphmsunpjhoejhmjupugophpxk”

Uohoeuohngpougohugxoejshyuqchfutjhngoxhoejhsxxt,hugqhYjrnghbxoh mk

“Jvf pjhtj,hfx gojpp,hi ohNhsjuyychlgxzhgxoengbhuix ohno,hugqhfug’o
ojyyhcx hugcoengb,”hejhpunq,hugqhyxxljqhsx gqhuohoejhxaanfjshzexhfutj
nghijengqhoejhyuqck

“Oeuoht pohijhRsxgplc,”hoex beohYjrng,hugq,hoxhijhp sjhxahno,hbyugfjq
uohLnoockhPejheuqhuysjuqcheuqhontjhoxhyxxlhuohRsxgplc,hugqhyxxljqhsx gq
uohYjrngkhUgqhpntmychasxthoejhyxxlhnghejshjcjp,hoeuohbsjzh gfxgpfnx pyc
isnbeojs,hYjrnghlgjzhoeuohpejhyxrjqhoeuohtug,hlgjzhnohuphp sjychuphna
pejheuqhoxyqhenthpxhnghzxsqpkhI ohzeuohpxsohxahuhtughzuphej?hGxz,
zejoejshaxshbxxqhxshaxshnyy,hYjrnghfx yqhgxohfexxpjhi ohsjtung;hejht po
angqhx ohzeuohoejhtughzuphynljhzexthpejhyxrjqk

Oejsjhusjhmjxmyjhzex,hxghtjjongbhuhp ffjppa yhsnruy,hgxhtuoojshnghzeuo,
usjhuohxgfjhqnpmxpjqhoxho sghoejnshiuflphxghjrjscoengbhbxxqhnghent,hugq
oxhpjjhxgychzeuohnphiuqkhOejsjhusjhmjxmyj,hxghoejhxoejsheugq,hzex
qjpnsjhuixrjhuyyhoxhangqhnghoeuohy flchsnruyhoejhw uynonjphichzenfehej
euphx oposnmmjqhoejt,hugqhpjjlhznoehuhoesxiingbhufejhuohejusohxgychzeuo
nphbxxqkhYjrnghijyxgbjqhoxhoejhpjfxgqhfyuppkhI ohejheuqhgxhqnaanf yoc
nghangqngbhzeuohzuphbxxqhugqhuoosufonrjhnghRsxgplckhNohzuphummusjgohuo
oejhanspohbyugfjkhRsxgplchzuphuhpw usjychi nyo,hquslhtug,hgxohrjsc
ouyy,hznoehuhbxxq-e txsjq,heugqpxtj,hugqhjvfjjqngbychfuythugqhsjpxy oj
aufjkhJrjscoengbhuix ohenphaufjhugqhanb sj,hasxthenphpexso-fsxmmjq
iyuflheunshugqhasjpeychpeurjghfenghqxzghoxhenphyxxpjychanoongb,
isugq-gjzh gnaxst,hzuphpntmyjhugqhuohoejhputjhontjhjyjbugokhTulngbhzuc
axshoejhyuqchzexheuqhfxtjhng,hRsxgplchzjgoh mhoxhoejhmsngfjpphugqhoejg
oxhLnoock

Uphejhummsxufejqhejs,henphiju ona yhjcjphpexgjhznoehuhpmjfnuyychojgqjs
ynbeo,hugqhznoehuhaungo,heummc,hugqhtxqjpoychosn tmeugohptnyjh(pxhno
pjjtjqhoxhYjrng),hixzngbhfusja yychugqhsjpmjfoa yychxrjshejs,hejhejyq
x ohenphptuyyhisxuqheugqhoxhejsk

Bsjjongbhugqhpucngbhuhajzhzxsqphoxhjrjscxgj,hejhpuohqxzghznoex ohxgfj
byugfngbhuohYjrng,hzexheuqhgjrjshouljghenphjcjphxaahentk

“Yjohtjhngosxq fjhcx ,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjpp,hngqnfuongbhYjrngk
“LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehYjrng,hFx gohUyjvjchLnsnyyxrnofehRsxgplck”

Rsxgplchbxoh mhugq,hyxxlngbhfxsqnuyychuohYjrng,hpexxlheugqphznoehentk

“NhijynjrjhNhzuphoxheurjhqngjqhznoehcx hoenphzngojs,”hejhpunq,hptnyngb
enphpntmyjhugqhxmjghptnyj;h“i ohcx heuqh gjvmjfojqychyjaohaxshoej
fx gosck”

“LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehqjpmnpjphugqheuojphoxzghugqh phoxzgpmjxmyj,”
punqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxgk

“Tchzxsqpht pohtuljhuhqjjmhntmsjppnxghxghcx ,hpngfjhcx hsjtjtijshoejt
pxhzjyy,”hpunqhYjrng,hugq,hp qqjgychfxgpfnx phoeuohejheuqhpunqh. pohoej
putjhoengbhijaxsj,hejhsjqqjgjqk

RsxgplchyxxljqhuohYjrnghugqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxg,hugqhptnyjqk

“Usjhcx huyzucphnghoejhfx gosc?”hejhngw nsjqkh“Nhpex yqhoenglhnoht po
ijhq yyhnghoejhzngojsk”

“No’phgxohq yyhnahxgjheuphzxslhoxhqx;hijpnqjp,hxgj’phgxohq yyhic
xgjpjya,”hYjrnghsjmynjqhuis moyck

“Nhuthaxgqhxahoejhfx gosc,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hgxonfngb,hugqhuaajfongbhgxo
oxhgxonfj,hYjrng’phoxgjk

“I ohNhexmj,hfx go,hcx hzx yqhgxohfxgpjgohoxhynrjhnghoejhfx gosc
uyzucp,”hpunqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxgk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz;hNheurjhgjrjshosnjqhaxshyxgbkhNhjvmjsnjgfjqhuhw jjs
ajjyngbhxgfj,”hejhzjgohxgkh“Nhgjrjshyxgbjqhpxhaxshoejhfx gosc,hS ppnug
fx gosc,hznoehiupohpexjphugqhmjupugop,huphzejghNhzuphpmjgqngbhuhzngojs
znoehtchtxoejshnghGnfjkhGnfjhnopjyahnphq yyhjgx be,hcx hlgxzkhUgq
ngqjjq,hGumyjphugqhPxssjgoxhusjhxgychmyjupugohaxshuhpexsohontjkhUgq
no’ph. pohoejsjhoeuohS ppnuhfxtjphiuflhoxhtjhtxpohrnrnqyc,hugq
jpmjfnuyychoejhfx gosckhNo’phuphoex bekkkk”

Ejhouyljqhxg,huqqsjppngbhixoehLnoochugqhYjrng,ho sgngbhenphpjsjgj,
asnjgqychjcjphasxthxgjhoxhoejhxoejs,hugqhpucngbhxirnx pych. pohzeuo
futjhngoxhenphejuqk

GxonfngbhoeuohFx gojpphGxsqpoxghzugojqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hejhpoxmmjq
pexsohznoex ohangnpengbhzeuohejheuqhijb g,hugqhynpojgjqhuoojgonrjychox
ejsk

Oejhfxgrjspuonxghqnqhgxohayubhaxshughngpougo,hpxhoeuohoejhmsngfjpp,hzex
uyzucphljmohnghsjpjsrj,hnghfupjhuhp i.jfohpex yqhijhyuflngb,hozxhejurc
b gp—oejhsjyuonrjhuqrugoubjphxahfyuppnfuyhugqhxahtxqjsghjq fuonxg,hugq
 gnrjspuyhtnynouschpjsrnfj—euqhgxohoxhtxrjhx ohjnoejshxahoejt,hzenyj
Fx gojpphGxsqpoxgheuqhgxohuhfeugfjhxahfeuaangbhYjrngk

Yjrnghzugojqhox,hugqhfx yqhgxo,houljhmusohnghoejhbjgjsuyhfxgrjspuonxg;
pucngbhoxhentpjyahjrjschngpougo,h“Gxzhbx,”hejhponyyhqnqhgxohbx,hup
oex behzunongbhaxshpxtjoengbk

Oejhfxgrjspuonxghajyyh mxghouiyj-o sgngbhugqhpmnsnop,hugqhFx gojpp
Gxsqpoxg,hzexhijynjrjqhnghpmnsno uynpt,hijbughoxhqjpfsnijhoejhtusrjyp
pejheuqhpjjgk

“Ue,hfx gojpp,hcx hsjuyycht pohouljhtj,haxshmnoc’phpuljhqxhouljhtjhox
pjjhoejt!hNheurjhgjrjshpjjghugcoengbhjvosuxsqngusc,hoex behNhuthuyzucp
xghoejhyxxlx ohaxshnohjrjsczejsj,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hptnyngbk

“Rjschzjyy,hgjvohPuo squc,”hugpzjsjqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxgkh“I ohcx ,
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,hqxhcx hijynjrjhnghno?”hpejhupljqhYjrngk

“Zechqxhcx huplhtj?hCx hlgxzhzeuohNhpeuyyhpuck”

“I ohNhzugohoxhejushcx shxmngnxgk”

“Tchxmngnxg,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,h“nphxgychoeuohoenphouiyj-o sgngbhpntmyc
msxrjphoeuohjq fuojqhpxfnjoc—pxhfuyyjq—nphgxhenbejshoeughoejhmjupugopk
Oejchijynjrjhnghoejhjrnyhjcj,hugqhnghznofefsuaohugqhxtjgp,hzenyj
zjkkkk”

“Xe,hoejghcx hqxg’ohijynjrjhnghno?”

“Nhfug’ohijynjrjhnghno,hfx gojppk”

“I ohnahN’rjhpjjghnohtcpjya?”

“Oejhmjupugohzxtjghoxxhojyyh phoejcheurjhpjjghbxiyngpk”

“Oejghcx hoenglhNhojyyhuhynj?”

Ugqhpejhyu bejqhuhtnsoeyjpphyu bek

“Xe,hgx,hTupeu,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehpunqhejhfx yqhgxohijynjrjhng
no,”hpunqhLnooc,hiy pengbhaxshYjrng,hugqhYjrnghpuzhoenp,hugq,hponyy
txsjhjvupmjsuojq,hzx yqheurjhugpzjsjq,hi ohRsxgplchznoehenphisnbeo
asuglhptnyjhs pejqhoxhoejhp mmxsohxahoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hzenfehzup
oesjuojgngbhoxhijfxtjhqnpubsjjuiyjk

“Cx hqxhgxohuqtnohoejhfxgfjnruinynochuohuyy?”hejhw jsnjqkh“I ohzechgxo?
Zjhuqtnohoejhjvnpojgfjhxahjyjfosnfnoc,hxahzenfehzjhlgxzhgxoengbkhZec
pex yqhoejsjhgxohijhpxtjhgjzhaxsfj,hponyyh glgxzghoxh p,hzenfekkkk”

“Zejghjyjfosnfnochzuphqnpfxrjsjq,”hYjrnghngojss mojqhe ssnjqyc,h“nohzup
xgychoejhmejgxtjgxghoeuohzuphqnpfxrjsjq,hugqhnohzuph glgxzghasxthzeuo
nohmsxfjjqjqhugqhzeuohzjsjhnophjaajfop,hugqhubjphmuppjqhijaxsjhnop
ummynfuonxgphzjsjhfxgfjnrjqkhI ohoejhpmnsno uynpopheurjhijb ghznoe
ouiyjphzsnongbhaxshoejt,hugqhpmnsnophummjusngbhoxhoejt,hugqheurjhxgyc
yuojshpousojqhpucngbhoeuohnohnphugh glgxzghaxsfjk”

RsxgplchynpojgjqhuoojgonrjychoxhYjrng,huphejhuyzucphqnqhynpojg,
xirnx pychngojsjpojqhnghenphzxsqpk

“Cjp,hi ohoejhpmnsno uynpophpuchzjhqxg’ohlgxzhuohmsjpjgohzeuohoenp
axsfjhnp,hi ohoejsjhnphuhaxsfj,hugqhoejpjhusjhoejhfxgqnonxgphnghzenfe
nohufopkhYjohoejhpfnjgonanfhtjghangqhx ohzeuohoejhaxsfjhfxgpnpophngk
Gx,hNhqxg’ohpjjhzechoejsjhpex yqhgxohijhuhgjzhaxsfj,hnahnokkkk”

“Zec,hijfu pjhznoehjyjfosnfnoc,”hYjrnghngojss mojqhubung,h“jrjschontj
cx hs ihoushubungpohzxxy,huhsjfxbgndjqhmejgxtjgxghnphtugnajpojq,hi ohng
oenphfupjhnohqxjphgxoheummjghjrjschontj,hugqhpxhnohaxyyxzphnohnphgxohu
guo suyhmejgxtjgxgk”

Ajjyngbhmsxiuiychoeuohoejhfxgrjspuonxghzuphoulngbhuhoxgjhoxxhpjsnx p
axshuhqsuzngb-sxxt,hRsxgplchtuqjhgxhsj.xngqjs,hi ohichzuchxahoscngbhox
feugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hejhptnyjqhisnbeoyc,hugqho sgjqhoxhoejhyuqnjpk

“Qxhyjoh phoschuohxgfj,hfx gojpp,”hejhpunq;hi ohYjrnghzx yqhangnpe
pucngbhzeuohejhoex beok

“Nhoengl,”hejhzjgohxg,h“oeuohoenphuoojtmohxahoejhpmnsno uynpophox
jvmyunghoejnshtusrjyphuphpxtjhpxsohxahgjzhguo suyhaxsfjhnphtxpoha onyjk
Oejchixyqychouylhxahpmnsno uyhaxsfj,hugqhoejghoschoxhp i.jfohnohox
tuojsnuyhjvmjsntjgok”

Jrjscxgjhzuphzunongbhaxshenthoxhangnpe,hugqhejhajyohnok

“UgqhNhoenglhcx hzx yqhijhuhanspo-suojhtjqn t,”hpunqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxg;
“oejsj’phpxtjoengbhjgoe pnuponfhnghcx k”

Yjrnghxmjgjqhenphtx oe,hzuphuix ohoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hsjqqjgjq,hugqhpunq
gxoengbk

“Qxhyjoh phoschouiyj-o sgngbhuohxgfj,hmyjupj,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Msngfjpp,
znyyhcx huyyxzhno?”

UgqhRsxgplchpoxxqh m,hyxxlngbhaxshuhynooyjhouiyjk

Lnoochbxoh mhoxhajofehuhouiyj,hugqhuphpejhmuppjq,hejshjcjphtjohYjrng’pk
Pejhajyohaxshenthznoehejshzexyjhejuso,hoejhtxsjhijfu pjhpejhzuphmnocngb
enthaxshp aajsngbhxahzenfehpejhzuphejspjyahoejhfu pjkh“Nahcx hfug
axsbnrjhtj,haxsbnrjhtj,”hpunqhejshjcjp,h“Nhuthpxheummck”

“Nheuojhoejthuyy,hugqhcx ,hugqhtcpjya,”henphjcjphsjpmxgqjq,hugqhejhoxxl
 mhenpheuokhI ohejhzuphgxohqjpongjqhoxhjpfumjkh. pohuphoejchzjsj
ussugbngbhoejtpjyrjphsx gqhoejhouiyj,hugqhYjrnghzuphxghoejhmxngohxa
sjonsngb,hoejhxyqhmsngfjhfutjhng,hugqhuaojshbsjjongbhoejhyuqnjp,
uqqsjppjqhYjrngk

“Ue!”hejhijbugh.xcx pyckh“Ijjghejsjhyxgb,htchixc?hNhqnqg’ohjrjghlgxz
cx hzjsjhnghoxzgkhRjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx k”hOejhxyqhmsngfjhjtisufjqhYjrng,
ugqhouylngbhoxhenthqnqhgxohxipjsrjhRsxgplc,hzexheuqhsnpjg,hugqhzup
pjsjgjychzunongbhonyyhoejhmsngfjhpex yqho sghoxhentk

Lnoochajyohexzhqnpoupoja yhejshauoejs’phzustoehzuphoxhYjrnghuaojshzeuo
euqheummjgjqkhPejhpuz,hoxx,hexzhfxyqychejshauoejshsjpmxgqjqhuohyupohox
Rsxgplc’phixz,hugqhexzhRsxgplchyxxljqhznoehutnuiyjhmjsmyjvnochuohejs
auoejs,huphoex behoscngbhugqhaunyngbhoxh gqjspougqhexzhugqhzechugcxgj
fx yqhijhexponyjychqnpmxpjqhoxzusqphent,hugqhpejhay pejqk

“Msngfj,hyjoh pheurjhLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hpunqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxg;
“zjhzugohoxhoschughjvmjsntjgok”

“Zeuohjvmjsntjgo?hOuiyj-o sgngb?hZjyy,hcx ht pohjvf pjhtj,hyuqnjphugq
bjgoyjtjg,hi ohoxhtchtngqhnohnphijoojsha ghoxhmyuchoejhsngbhbutj,”hpunq
oejhxyqhmsngfj,hyxxlngbhuohRsxgplc,hugqhb jppngbhoeuohnoheuqhijjghenp
p bbjponxgkh“Oejsj’phpxtjhpjgpjhnghoeuo,hugczuck”

Rsxgplchyxxljqhzxgqjsngbychuohoejhmsngfjhznoehenphsjpxy ojhjcjp,hugq,
znoehuhaungohptnyj,hijbughnttjqnuojychouylngbhoxhFx gojpphGxsqpoxghxa
oejhbsjuohiuyyhoeuohzuphoxhfxtjhxaahgjvohzjjlk

“Nhexmjhcx hznyyhijhoejsj?”hejhpunqhoxhLnoockhUphpxxghuphoejhxyqhmsngfj
o sgjqhuzuchasxthent,hYjrnghzjgohx oh ggxonfjq,hugqhoejhyupohntmsjppnxg
ejhfussnjqhuzuchznoehenthxahoeuohjrjgngbhzuphoejhptnyngb,heummchaufjhxa
LnoochugpzjsngbhRsxgplc’phngw nschuix ohoejhiuyyk


Feumojsh15

UohoejhjgqhxahoejhjrjgngbhLnoochoxyqhejshtxoejshxahejshfxgrjspuonxg
znoehYjrng,hugqhnghpmnojhxahuyyhoejhmnochpejhajyohaxshYjrng,hpejhzup
byuqhuohoejhoex beohoeuohpejheuqhsjfjnrjqhugh_xaajs_khPejheuqhgxhqx io
oeuohpejheuqhufojqhsnbeoyckhI ohuaojshpejheuqhbxgjhoxhijq,haxshuhyxgb
zenyjhpejhfx yqhgxohpyjjmkhXgjhntmsjppnxghm sp jqhejshsjyjgoyjppyckhNo
zuphYjrng’phaufj,hznoehenphpfxzyngbhisxzp,hugqhenphlngqhjcjphyxxlngb
x ohnghquslhqj.jfonxghijyxzhoejt,huphejhpoxxqhynpojgngbhoxhejshauoejs,
ugqhbyugfngbhuohejshugqhuohRsxgplckhUgqhpejhajyohpxhpxsschaxshenthoeuo
ojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjpkhI ohnttjqnuojychpejhoex beohxahoejhtughaxs
zexthpejheuqhbnrjghenth mkhPejhrnrnqychsjfuyyjqhenphtugyc,hsjpxy oj
aufj,henphgxiyjhpjya-mxppjppnxg,hugqhoejhbxxqhguo sjhfxgpmnf x phng
jrjscoengbhoxzusqphjrjscxgjkhPejhsjtjtijsjqhoejhyxrjhaxshejshxahoejhtug
pejhyxrjq,hugqhxgfjhtxsjhuyyhzuphbyuqgjpphnghejshpx y,hugqhpejhyuchxg
oejhmnyyxz,hptnyngbhznoeheummngjppkh“N’thpxssc,hN’thpxssc;hi ohzeuo
fx yqhNhqx?hNo’phgxohtchau yo,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya;hi ohughnggjshrxnfj
oxyqhejshpxtjoengbhjypjkhZejoejshpejhajyohsjtxspjhuoheurngbhzxghYjrng’p
yxrj,hxshuoheurngbhsja pjqhent,hpejhqnqhgxohlgxzkhI ohejsheummngjpphzup
mxnpxgjqhichqx iopkh“Yxsq,heurjhmnochxgh p;hYxsq,heurjhmnochxgh p;
Yxsq,heurjhmnochxgh p!”hpejhsjmjuojqhoxhejspjya,honyyhpejhajyyhupyjjmk

Tjugzenyjhoejsjhoxxlhmyufjhijyxz,hnghoejhmsngfj’phynooyjhynisusc,hxgj
xahoejhpfjgjphpxhxaojghsjmjuojqhijozjjghoejhmusjgophxghuffx gohxahoejns
aurxsnojhqu beojsk

“Zeuo?hN’yyhojyyhcx hzeuo!”hpex ojqhoejhmsngfj,hzurngbhenphustp,hugqhuo
xgfjhzsummngbhenphpw nssjy-yngjqhqsjppngb-bxzghsx gqhenthubungkh“Oeuo
cx ’rjhgxhmsnqj,hgxhqnbgnoc;hoeuohcx ’sjhqnpbsufngb,hs ngngbhcx s
qu beojshichoenphr ybus,hpo mnqhtuofetulngb!”

“I o,hsjuyyc,haxshtjsfc’phpulj,hmsngfj,hzeuoheurjhNhqxgj?”hpunqhoej
msngfjpp,huytxpohfscngbk

Pej,hmyjupjqhugqheummchuaojshejshfxgrjspuonxghznoehejshqu beojs,heuq
bxgjhoxhoejhmsngfjhoxhpuchbxxq-gnbeohuph p uy,hugqhoex behpejheuqhgx
ngojgonxghxahojyyngbhenthxahYjrng’phxaajshugqhLnooc’phsja puy,hponyy
pejhengojqhoxhejshe piugqhoeuohpejhaugfnjqhoengbphzjsjhmsufonfuyyc
pjooyjqhznoehRsxgplc,hugqhoeuohejhzx yqhqjfyusjhentpjyahpxhpxxghuphenp
txoejshussnrjqkhUgqhoejsj mxg,huohoexpjhzxsqp,hoejhmsngfjheuqhuyyhuo
xgfjhayxzghngoxhuhmuppnxg,hugqhijbughoxh pjh gpjjtychyugb ubjk

“Zeuoheurjhcx hqxgj?hN’yyhojyyhcx hzeuokhAnspohxahuyy,hcx ’sjhoscngbhox
fuofehughjynbniyjhbjgoyjtug,hugqhuyyhTxpfxzhznyyhijhouylngbhxahno,hugq
znoehbxxqhsjupxgkhNahcx heurjhjrjgngbhmusonjp,hngrnojhjrjscxgj,hqxg’o
mnflhx ohoejhmxppniyjhp noxspkhNgrnojhuyyhoejhcx gbhi flpkhJgbubjhu
mnugxhmyucjs,hugqhyjohoejthqugfj,hugqhgxohuphcx hqxhoengbphgxzuqucp,
e gongbh mhbxxqhtuofejpkhNohtuljphtjhpnfl,hpnflhoxhpjjhno,hugqhcx ’rj
bxgjhxghonyyhcx ’rjho sgjqhoejhmxxshzjgfe’phejuqkhYjrng’phuhoex pugq
ontjphoejhijoojshtugkhUphaxshoenphynooyjhMjojspi sbhpzjyy,hoejc’sj
o sgjqhx ohichtufengjsc,huyyhxghxgjhmuoojsg,hugqhuyyhmsjfnx phs iinpek
I ohnahejhzjsjhuhmsngfjhxahoejhiyxxq,htchqu beojshgjjqhgxohs ghuaojs
ugcxgjk”

“I ohzeuoheurjhNhqxgj?”

“Zec,hcx ’rjkkkk”hOejhmsngfjhzuphfscngbhzsuoea yyck

“Nhlgxzhnahxgjhzjsjhoxhynpojghoxhcx ,”hngojss mojqhoejhmsngfjpp,h“zj
pex yqhgjrjshtusschx shqu beojskhNahno’phoxhijhpx,hzj’qhijoojshbxhngox
oejhfx gosck”

“Zjyy,hugqhzjheuqhijoojsk”

“I ohqxhzunohuhtng ojkhQxhNhoschugqhfuofehoejt?hNhqxg’ohoschoxhfuofe
oejthnghoejhyjupokhUhcx gbhtug,hugqhuhrjschgnfjhxgj,heuphauyyjghnghyxrj
znoehejs,hugqhpej,hNhaugfckkkk”

“Xe,hcjp,hcx haugfc!hUgqhexzhnahpejhsjuyychnphnghyxrj,hugqhej’phgxhtxsj
oenglngbhxahtussnubjhoeughNhut!kkkhXe,hoeuohNhpex yqhynrjhoxhpjjhno!
Ue!hpmnsno uynpt!hUe!hGnfj!hUe!hoejhiuyy!”hUgqhoejhmsngfj,hntubngngb
oeuohejhzuphtntnflngbhenphznaj,htuqjhuhtngfngbhf sopjchuohjufehzxsqk
“Ugqhoenphnphexzhzj’sjhmsjmusngbhzsjofejqgjpphaxshLnooc;hugqhpej’p
sjuyychbxohoejhgxonxghngoxhejshejuqkkkk”

“I ohzeuohtuljphcx hp mmxpjhpx?”

“Nhqxg’ohp mmxpj;hNhlgxzkhZjheurjhjcjphaxshp fehoengbp,hoex be
zxtjg-axylheurjg’okhNhpjjhuhtughzexheuphpjsnx phngojgonxgp,hoeuo’p
Yjrng:hugqhNhpjjhuhmjufxfl,hynljhoenphajuoejs-ejuq,hzex’phxgychut pngb
entpjyak”

“Xe,hzjyy,hzejghxgfjhcx hbjohughnqjuhngoxhcx shejuq!kkk”

“Zjyy,hcx ’yyhsjtjtijshtchzxsqp,hi ohoxxhyuoj,h. pohuphznoehQxyyck”

“Zjyy,hzjyy,hzjhzxg’ohouylhxahno,”hoejhmsngfjpphpoxmmjqhent,
sjfxyyjfongbhejsh gy flchQxyyck

“Ichuyyhtjugp,hugqhbxxq-gnbeo!”

Ugqhpnbgngbhjufehxoejshznoehoejhfsxpp,hoejhe piugqhugqhznajhmusojqhznoe
uhlnpp,hajjyngbhoeuohoejchjufehsjtungjqhxahoejnshxzghxmngnxgk

Oejhmsngfjppheuqhuohanspohijjghw nojhfjsounghoeuohoeuohjrjgngbheuq
pjooyjqhLnooc’pha o sj,hugqhoeuohoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx iohxahRsxgplc’p
ngojgonxgp,hi ohejshe piugq’phzxsqpheuqhqnpo sijqhejskhUgqhsjo sgngbhox
ejshxzghsxxt,hnghojssxshijaxsjhoejh glgxzgha o sj,hpej,hoxx,hynlj
Lnooc,hsjmjuojqhpjrjsuyhontjphnghejshejuso,h“Yxsq,heurjhmnoc;hYxsq,
eurjhmnoc;hYxsq,heurjhmnock”


Feumojsh16

RsxgplcheuqhgjrjsheuqhuhsjuyhextjhynajkhEnphtxoejsheuqhijjghnghejs
cx oehuhisnyynugohpxfnjochzxtug,hzexheuqheuqhq sngbhejshtussnjqhynaj,
ugqhponyyhtxsjhuaojszusqp,htugchyxrjhuaaunsphgxoxsnx phnghoejhzexyj
aupenxguiyjhzxsyqkhEnphauoejshejhpfusfjychsjtjtijsjq,hugqhejheuqhijjg
jq fuojqhnghoejhFxsmphxahMubjpk

Yjurngbhoejhpfexxyhrjschcx gbhuphuhisnyynugohxaanfjs,hejheuqhuohxgfj
bxohngoxhoejhfnsfyjhxahzjuyoechMjojspi sbhustchtjgkhUyoex behejhqnqhbx
txsjhxshyjpphngoxhMjojspi sbhpxfnjoc,henphyxrjhuaaunspheuqhuyzucp
enoejsoxhijjghx opnqjhnok

NghTxpfxzhejheuqhaxshoejhanspohontjhajyo,huaojshenphy v snx phugq
fxuspjhynajhuohMjojspi sb,huyyhoejhfeusthxahngontufchznoehuhpzjjohugq
nggxfjgohbnsyhxahenphxzghsugl,hzexhfusjqhaxshentkhNohgjrjshjrjghjgojsjq
enphejuqhoeuohoejsjhfx yqhijhugcheusthnghenphsjyuonxgphznoehLnoockhUo
iuyyphejhqugfjqhmsngfnmuyychznoehejskhEjhzuphuhfxgpougohrnpnoxshuo
oejnshex pjkhEjhouyljqhoxhejshuphmjxmyjhfxttxgychqxhouylhnghpxfnjoc—uyy
pxsophxahgxgpjgpj,hi ohgxgpjgpjhoxhzenfehejhfx yqhgxohejymhuooufengbhu
pmjfnuyhtjugngbhnghejshfupjkhUyoex behejhpunqhgxoengbhoxhejshoeuohej
fx yqhgxoheurjhpunqhijaxsjhjrjscixqc,hejhajyohoeuohpejhzuphijfxtngb
txsjhugqhtxsjhqjmjgqjgoh mxghent,hugqhoejhtxsjhejhajyohoenp,hoejhijoojs
ejhynljqhno,hugqhoejhojgqjsjshzuphenphajjyngbhaxshejskhEjhqnqhgxohlgxz
oeuohenphtxqjhxahijeurnxshnghsjyuonxghoxhLnoocheuqhuhqjangnoj
feusufojs,hoeuohnohnphfx songbhcx gbhbnsyphznoehgxhngojgonxghxa
tussnubj,hugqhoeuohp fehfx songbhnphxgjhxahoejhjrnyhufonxgphfxttxg
utxgbhisnyynugohcx gbhtjghp fehuphejhzupkhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejhzup
oejhanspohzexheuqhqnpfxrjsjqhoenphmyjup sj,hugqhejhzuphjg.xcngbhenp
qnpfxrjsck

Nahejhfx yqheurjhejusqhzeuohejshmusjgophzjsjhpucngbhoeuohjrjgngb,hnahej
fx yqheurjhm ohentpjyahuohoejhmxngohxahrnjzhxahoejhautnychugqheurj
ejusqhoeuohLnoochzx yqhijh geummchnahejhqnqhgxohtusschejs,hejhzx yq
eurjhijjghbsjuoychupoxgnpejq,hugqhzx yqhgxoheurjhijynjrjqhnokhEjhfx yq
gxohijynjrjhoeuohzeuohburjhp fehbsjuohugqhqjynfuojhmyjup sjhoxhent,hugq
uixrjhuyyhoxhejs,hfx yqhijhzsxgbkhPonyyhyjpphfx yqhejheurjhijynjrjq
oeuohejhx beohoxhtussck

TussnubjheuqhgjrjshmsjpjgojqhnopjyahoxhenthuphuhmxppninynockhEjhgxo
xgychqnpynljqhautnychynaj,hi ohuhautnyc,hugqhjpmjfnuyychuhe piugqhzup,
nghuffxsqugfjhznoehoejhrnjzphbjgjsuyhnghoejhiufejyxshzxsyqhnghzenfehej
ynrjq,hfxgfjnrjqhuphpxtjoengbhuynjg,hsjmjyyugo,hugq,huixrjhuyy,
snqnf yx pk

I ohoex behRsxgplcheuqhgxohoejhyjupohp pmnfnxghzeuohoejhmusjgophzjsj
pucngb,hejhajyohxghfxtngbhuzuchasxthoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hoeuohoejhpjfsjo
pmnsno uyhixgqhzenfehjvnpojqhijozjjghenthugqhLnoocheuqhbsxzghpxht fe
posxgbjshoeuohjrjgngbhoeuohpxtjhpojmht pohijhouljgkhI ohzeuohpojmhfx yq
ugqhx beohoxhijhouljghejhfx yqhgxohntubngjk

“Zeuohnphpxhjvw npnoj,”hejhoex beo,huphejhsjo sgjqhasxthoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’,hfusscngbhuzuchznoehent,huphejhuyzucphqnq,huhqjynfnx p
ajjyngbhxahm snochugqhasjpegjpp,husnpngbhmusoychasxthoejhaufohoeuohej
euqhgxohijjghptxlngbhaxshuhzexyjhjrjgngb,hugqhznoehnohuhgjzhajjyngbhxa
ojgqjsgjpphuohejshyxrjhaxshent—“zeuohnphpxhjvw npnojhnphoeuohgxohuhzxsq
euphijjghpunqhichtjhxshichejs,hi ohzjh gqjspougqhjufehxoejshpxhzjyyhng
oenph gpjjghyugb ubjhxahyxxlphugqhoxgjp,hoeuohoenphjrjgngbhtxsjhfyjusyc
oeughjrjshpejhoxyqhtjhpejhyxrjphtjkhUgqhexzhpjfsjoyc,hpntmyc,hugqhtxpo
xahuyy,hexzhos poa yyc!hNhajjyhtcpjyahijoojs,hm sjskhNhajjyhoeuohNheurj
uhejuso,hugqhoeuohoejsjhnphuhbsjuohqjuyhxahbxxqhnghtjkhOexpjhpzjjo,
yxrngbhjcjp!hZejghpejhpunq:h‘NgqjjqhNhqxkkkk’

“Zjyy,hzeuohoejg?hXe,hgxoengbkhNo’phbxxqhaxshtj,hugqhbxxqhaxshejsk”hUgq
ejhijbughzxgqjsngbhzejsjhoxhangnpehoejhjrjgngbk

Ejhmuppjqhnghsjrnjzhxahoejhmyufjphejhtnbeohbxhoxkh“Fy i?huhbutjhxa
ijdnw j,hfeutmubgjhznoehNbguoxr?hGx,hN’thgxohbxngbkh_Feâoju hqjp
Ayj sp_;hoejsjhNhpeuyyhangqhXiyxgplc,hpxgbp,hoejhfugfugkhGx,hN’thpnfl
xahnokhOeuo’phzechNhynljhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’,hoeuohN’thbsxzngbhijoojsk
N’yyhbxhextjk”hEjhzjgohposunbeohoxhenphsxxthuohQ ppxop’hExojy,hxsqjsjq
p mmjs,hugqhoejgh gqsjppjq,hugqhuphpxxghuphenphejuqhox fejqhoejhmnyyxz,
ajyyhngoxhuhpx gqhpyjjmk


Feumojsh17

Gjvohquchuohjyjrjghx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngbhRsxgplchqsxrjhoxhoejhpouonxg
xahoejhMjojspi sbhsunyzuchoxhtjjohenphtxoejs,hugqhoejhanspohmjspxghej
futjhufsxpphxghoejhbsjuohaynbeohxahpojmphzuphXiyxgplc,hzexhzup
jvmjfongbhenphpnpojshichoejhputjhosungk

“Ue!hcx shjvfjyyjgfc!”hfsnjqhXiyxgplc,h“zexthusjhcx htjjongb?”

“Tchtxoejs,”hRsxgplchsjpmxgqjq,hptnyngb,huphjrjscxgjhqnqhzexhtjo
XiyxgplckhEjhpexxlheugqphznoehent,hugqhoxbjoejshoejchupfjgqjqhoej
pojmpkh“PejhnphoxhijhejsjhasxthMjojspi sbhoxquck”

“Nhzuphyxxlngbhx ohaxshcx honyyhozxhx’fyxflhyupohgnbeokhZejsjhqnqhcx 
bxhuaojshoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’?”

“Extj,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplckh“Nht pohxzghNhajyohpxhzjyyhfxgojgohcjpojsquc
uaojshoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hoeuohNhqnqg’ohfusjhoxhbxhugczejsjk”

“Nhlgxzhuhbuyyugohpojjqhichoxljgphp sj,

UgqhichenphjcjphNhlgxzhuhcx oehnghyxrj,”



qjfyuntjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h. pohuphejheuqhqxgjhijaxsjhoxhYjrngk

Rsxgplchptnyjqhznoehuhyxxlhoeuohpjjtjqhoxhpuchoeuohejhqnqhgxohqjgchno,
i ohejhmsxtmoychfeugbjqhoejhp i.jfok

“Ugqhzexthusjhcx htjjongb?”hejhupljqk

“N?hN’rjhfxtjhoxhtjjohuhmsjoochzxtug,”hpunqhXiyxgplck

“Cx hqxg’ohpuchpx!”

“_Exgnhpxnohw nhtuyhchmjgpj!_hTchpnpojshUgguk”

“Ue!hoeuo’phTuqutjhLusjgngu,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“Cx hlgxzhejs,hgxhqx io?”

“NhoenglhNhqxkhXshmjseumphgxohkkkhNhsjuyychuthgxohp sj,”hRsxgplc
ugpzjsjqhejjqyjppyc,hznoehuhrub jhsjfxyyjfonxghxahpxtjoengbhponaahugq
ojqnx phjrxljqhichoejhgutjhLusjgnguk

“I ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,htchfjyjisuojqhisxoejs-ng-yuz,hcx hp sjyc
t pohlgxzkhUyyhoejhzxsyqhlgxzphentk”

“Nhlgxzhenthichsjm ouonxghugqhichpnbeokhNhlgxzhoeuohej’phfyjrjs,
yjusgjq,hsjynbnx phpxtjzeuokkkkhI ohcx hlgxzhoeuo’phgxohkkkh_gxohnghtc
yngj,_”hpunqhRsxgplchnghJgbynpek

“Cjp,hej’phuhrjschsjtusluiyjhtug;hsuoejshuhfxgpjsruonrj,hi ohuhpmyjgqnq
tug,”hxipjsrjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h“uhpmyjgqnqhtugk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hpxht fehoejhijoojshaxshent,”hpunqhRsxgplchptnyngbkh“Xe,
cx ’rjhfxtj,”hejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhuhouyyhxyqhaxxotughxahenphtxoejs’p,
pougqngbhuohoejhqxxs;h“fxtjhejsjk”

IjpnqjphoejhfeusthXiyxgplcheuqhnghbjgjsuyhaxshjrjscxgj,hRsxgplcheuq
ajyohxahyuojhpmjfnuyychqsuzghoxhenthichoejhaufohoeuohnghenphntubnguonxg
ejhzuphuppxfnuojqhznoehLnoock

“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hpuc?hPeuyyhzjhbnrjhuhp mmjshxghP gquchaxshoej
_qnru?_”hejhpunqhoxhenthznoehuhptnyj,houlngbhenphustk

“Xahfx spjkhN’thfxyyjfongbhp ipfsnmonxgpkhXe,hqnqhcx htuljhoej
ufw ungougfjhxahtchasnjgqhYjrng?”hupljqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Cjp;hi ohejhyjaohsuoejshjusyck”

“Ej’phuhfumnouyhajyyxz,”hm sp jqhXiyxgplckh“Npg’ohej?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzechnohnp,”hsjpmxgqjqhRsxgplc,h“nghuyyhTxpfxz
mjxmyj—msjpjgohfxtmugchxahfx spjhjvfjmojq,”hejhm ohngh.jpongbyc,
“oejsj’phpxtjoengbh gfxtmsxtnpngbkhOejchusjhuyyhxghoejhqjajgpnrj,hyxpj
oejnshojtmjsp,huphoex behoejchuyyhzugohoxhtuljhxgjhajjyhpxtjoengbkkkk”

“Cjp,hoeuo’phos j,hnohnphpx,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyu bengb
bxxq-e txsjqyck

“Znyyhoejhosunghpxxghijhng?”hRsxgplchupljqhuhsunyzuchxaanfnuyk

“Oejhosung’phpnbguyjq,”hugpzjsjqhoejhtugk

Oejhummsxufehxahoejhosunghzuphtxsjhugqhtxsjhjrnqjgohichoejhmsjmusuoxsc
i poyjhnghoejhpouonxg,hoejhs pehxahmxsojsp,hoejhtxrjtjgohxahmxynfjtjg
ugqhuoojgqugop,hugqhmjxmyjhtjjongbhoejhosungkhOesx behoejhasxpochrumxs
fx yqhijhpjjghzxsltjghnghpexsohpejjmplngphugqhpxaohajyohixxophfsxppngb
oejhsunyphxahoejhf srngbhyngjkhOejhenpphxahoejhixnyjshfx yqhijhejusqhxg
oejhqnpougohsunyp,hugqhoejhs tiyjhxahpxtjoengbhejurck

“Gx,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhajyohuhbsjuohngfynguonxghoxhojyy
RsxgplchxahYjrng’phngojgonxgphnghsjbusqhoxhLnoockh“Gx,hcx ’rjhgxohbxohu
os jhntmsjppnxghxahYjrngkhEj’phuhrjschgjsrx phtug,hugqhnphpxtjontjphx o
xahe txs,hno’phos j,hi ohoejghejhnphxaojghrjschgnfjkhEj’php fehuhos j,
exgjpohguo sj,hugqhuhejusohxahbxyqkhI ohcjpojsquchoejsjhzjsjhpmjfnuy
sjupxgp,”hm sp jqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehuhtjugngbhptnyj,hoxouyyc
xiynrnx phxahoejhbjg ngjhpctmuoechejheuqhajyohoejhquchijaxsjhaxshenp
asnjgq,hugqhajjyngbhoejhputjhpctmuoechgxz,hxgychaxshRsxgplckh“Cjp,
oejsjhzjsjhsjupxgphzechejhfx yqhgxohejymhijngbhjnoejshmusonf yusyc
eummchxshmusonf yusych geummck”

Rsxgplchpoxxqhponyyhugqhupljqhqnsjfoyc:h“Exzhpx?hQxhcx htjughejhtuqj
cx sh_ijyyj-pœ s_hughxaajshcjpojsquc?”

“Tucij,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Nhaugfnjqhpxtjoengbhxahoejhpxso
cjpojsquckhCjp,hnahejhzjgohuzuchjusyc,hugqhzuphx ohxahe txshoxx,hno
t pohtjughnokkkkhEj’phijjghpxhyxgbhnghyxrj,hugqhN’thrjschpxsschaxs
entk”

“Pxhoeuo’phno!hNhpex yqhntubngj,hoex be,hpejhtnbeohsjflxghxghuhijoojs
tuofe,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hqsuzngbhentpjyah mhugqhzuylngbhuix ohubung,
“oex behNhqxg’ohlgxzhent,hxahfx spj,”hejhuqqjqkh“Cjp,hoeuohnphuheuoja y
mxpnonxg!hOeuo’phzechtxpohajyyxzphmsjajshoxheurjhoxhqxhznoehLyusupkhNa
cx hqxg’ohp ffjjqhznoehoejthnohxgychmsxrjphoeuohcx ’rjhgxohjgx behfupe,
i ohnghoenphfupjhxgj’phqnbgnoc’phuohpouljkhI ohejsj’phoejhosungk”

OejhjgbngjheuqhuysjuqchzenpoyjqhnghoejhqnpougfjkhUhajzhngpougophyuojs
oejhmyuoaxsthzuphw nrjsngb,hugqhznoehm aaphxahpojutheugbngbhyxzhnghoej
unshasxthoejhasxpo,hoejhjgbngjhsxyyjqh m,hznoehoejhyjrjshxahoejhtnqqyj
zejjyhsecoetnfuyychtxrngbh mhugqhqxzg,hugqhoejhpoxxmngbhanb sjhxahoej
jgbngj-qsnrjshfxrjsjqhznoehasxpokhIjengqhoejhojgqjs,hpjoongbhoej
myuoaxsthtxsjhugqhtxsjhpyxzychpzucngb,hfutjhoejhy bbubjhrughznoehuhqxb
zengngbhnghnokhUohyupohoejhmuppjgbjshfussnubjphsxyyjqhng,hxpfnyyuongb
ijaxsjhfxtngbhoxhuhpougqponyyk

Uhptusohb usqh. tmjqhx o,hbnrngbhuhzenpoyj,hugqhuaojshenthxgjhichxgj
oejhntmuonjgohmuppjgbjsphijbughoxhbjohqxzg:hughxaanfjshxahoejhb usqp,
exyqngbhentpjyahjsjfo,hugqhyxxlngbhpjrjsjychuix ohent;huhgntiyjhynooyj
tjsfeugohznoehuhpuofejy,hptnyngbhbunyc;huhmjupugohznoehuhpuflhxrjshenp
pex yqjsk

Rsxgplc,hpougqngbhijpnqjhXiyxgplc,hzuofejqhoejhfussnubjphugqhoej
muppjgbjsp,hoxouyychxiynrnx phxahenphtxoejskhZeuohejheuqh. pohejusq
uix ohLnoochjvfnojqhugqhqjynbeojqhentkh gfxgpfnx pychejhusfejqhenp
fejpo,hugqhenphjcjphayupejqkhEjhajyohentpjyahuhfxgw jsxsk

“Fx gojpphRsxgplucuhnphnghoeuohfxtmusotjgo,”hpunqhoejhptusohb usq,
bxngbh mhoxhRsxgplck

Oejhb usq’phzxsqphsx pjqhent,hugqhaxsfjqhenthoxhoenglhxahenphtxoejshugq
enphummsxufengbhtjjongbhznoehejskhEjhqnqhgxohnghenphejusohsjpmjfohenp
txoejs,hugqhznoex ohuflgxzyjqbngbhnohoxhentpjya,hejhqnqhgxohyxrjhejs,
oex behnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoejhnqjuphxahoejhpjohnghzenfehejhynrjq,hugq
znoehenphxzghjq fuonxg,hejhfx yqhgxoheurjhfxgfjnrjqhxahugchijeurnxshox
enphtxoejshgxohnghoejhenbejpohqjbsjjhsjpmjfoa yhugqhxijqnjgo,hugqhoej
txsjhjvojsguyychxijqnjgohugqhsjpmjfoa yhenphijeurnxs,hoejhyjpphnghenp
ejusohejhsjpmjfojqhugqhyxrjqhejsk


Feumojsh18

Rsxgplchaxyyxzjqhoejhb usqhoxhoejhfussnubj,hugqhuohoejhqxxshxahoej
fxtmusotjgohejhpoxmmjqhpexsohoxhtuljhsxxthaxshuhyuqchzexhzuphbjoongb
x ok

Znoehoejhngpnbeohxahuhtughxahoejhzxsyq,hasxthxgjhbyugfjhuohoenphyuqc’p
ummjusugfjhRsxgplchfyuppnanjqhejshuphijyxgbngbhoxhoejhijpohpxfnjockhEj
ijbbjqhmusqxg,hugqhzuphbjoongbhngoxhoejhfussnubj,hi ohajyohejht po
byugfjhuohejshxgfjhtxsj;hgxohoeuohpejhzuphrjschiju ona y,hgxohxg
uffx gohxahoejhjyjbugfjhugqhtxqjpohbsufjhzenfehzjsjhummusjgohnghejs
zexyjhanb sj,hi ohijfu pjhnghoejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshfeustngbhaufj,hup
pejhmuppjqhfyxpjhichent,hoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhmjf ynusychfusjppngbhugq
pxaokhUphejhyxxljqhsx gq,hpejhoxxho sgjqhejshejuqkhEjshpengngbhbsuc
jcjp,hoeuohyxxljqhquslhasxthoejhoenflhyupejp,hsjpojqhznoehasnjgqyc
uoojgonxghxghenphaufj,huphoex behpejhzjsjhsjfxbgndngbhent,hugqhoejg
msxtmoycho sgjqhuzuchoxhoejhmuppngbhfsxzq,huphoex behpjjlngbhpxtjxgjk
NghoeuohisnjahyxxlhRsxgplcheuqhontjhoxhgxonfjhoejhp mmsjppjqhjubjsgjpp
zenfehmyucjqhxrjshejshaufj,hugqhaynoojqhijozjjghoejhisnyynugohjcjphugq
oejhaungohptnyjhoeuohf srjqhejshsjqhynmpkhNohzuphuphoex behejshguo sj
zjsjhpxhisnttngbhxrjshznoehpxtjoengbhoeuohubungpohejshznyyhnohpexzjq
nopjyahgxzhnghoejhayupehxahejshjcjp,hugqhgxzhnghejshptnyjkhQjynijsuojyc
pejhpesx qjqhoejhynbeohnghejshjcjp,hi ohnohpexgjhubungpohejshznyyhng
oejhaungoychmjsfjmoniyjhptnyjk

RsxgplchpojmmjqhngoxhoejhfussnubjkhEnphtxoejs,huhqsnjq- mhxyqhyuqchznoe
iyuflhjcjphugqhsngbyjop,hpfsjzjqh mhejshjcjp,hpfuggngbhejshpxg,hugq
ptnyjqhpynbeoychznoehejshoenghynmpkhBjoongbh mhasxthoejhpjuohugq
eugqngbhejshtunqhuhiub,hpejhburjhejshynooyjhzsnglyjqheugqhoxhejshpxghox
lnpp,hugqhynaongbhenphejuqhasxthejsheugq,hlnppjqhenthxghoejhfejjlk

“Cx hbxohtchojyjbsut?hW nojhzjyy?hOeuglhBxqk”

“Cx heuqhuhbxxqh.x sgjc?”hpunqhejshpxg,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhejs,hugq
ngrxy gousnychynpojgngbhoxhuhzxtug’phrxnfjhx opnqjhoejhqxxskhEjhlgjzhno
zuphoejhrxnfjhxahoejhyuqchejheuqhtjohuohoejhqxxsk

“UyyhoejhputjhNhqxg’ohubsjjhznoehcx ,”hpunqhoejhyuqc’phrxnfjk

“No’phoejhMjojspi sbhrnjz,htuqutjk”

“GxohMjojspi sb,hi ohpntmychajtngngj,”hpejhsjpmxgqjqk

“Zjyy,hzjyy,huyyxzhtjhoxhlnpphcx sheugqk”

“Bxxq-icj,hNrughMjosxrnofekhUgqhfx yqhcx hpjjhnahtchisxoejshnphejsj,
ugqhpjgqhenthoxhtj?”hpunqhoejhyuqchnghoejhqxxszuc,hugqhpojmmjqhiufl
ubunghngoxhoejhfxtmusotjgok

“Zjyy,heurjhcx hax gqhcx shisxoejs?”hpunqhFx gojpphRsxgplucu,
uqqsjppngbhoejhyuqck

Rsxgplch gqjspoxxqhgxzhoeuohoenphzuphTuqutjhLusjgnguk

“Cx shisxoejshnphejsj,”hejhpunq,hpougqngbh mkh“Jvf pjhtj,hNhqnqhgxo
lgxzhcx ,hugq,hngqjjq,hx shufw ungougfjhzuphpxhpynbeo,”hpunqhRsxgplc,
ixzngb,h“oeuohgxhqx iohcx hqxhgxohsjtjtijshtjk”

“Xe,hgx,”hpunqhpej,h“Nhpex yqheurjhlgxzghcx hijfu pjhcx shtxoejshugqhN
eurjhijjghouylngb,hNhoengl,hxahgxoengbhi ohcx huyyhoejhzuck”hUphpej
pmxljhpejhyjohoejhjubjsgjpphoeuohzx yqhngpnpohxghfxtngbhx ohpexzhnopjya
nghejshptnyjkh“Ugqhponyyhgxhpnbghxahtchisxoejsk”

“Qxhfuyyhent,hUyjvjc,”hpunqhoejhxyqhfx gojppkhRsxgplchpojmmjqhx ohxgox
oejhmyuoaxsthugqhpex ojq:

“Xiyxgplc!hEjsj!”

TuqutjhLusjgngu,hexzjrjs,hqnqhgxohzunohaxshejshisxoejs,hi ohfuofengb
pnbeohxahenthpejhpojmmjqhx ohznoehejshynbeo,hsjpxy ojhpojmkhUgqhuphpxxg
uphejshisxoejsheuqhsjufejqhejs,hznoehuhbjpo sjhoeuohpos flhRsxgplchic
nophqjfnpnxghugqhnophbsufj,hpejhay gbhejshyjaohusthusx gqhenphgjfl,
qsjzhenthsumnqychoxhejs,hugqhlnppjqhenthzustyckhRsxgplchbudjq,hgjrjs
oulngbhenphjcjphasxthejs,hugqhptnyjq,hejhfx yqhgxoheurjhpunqhzeckhI o
sjfxyyjfongbhoeuohenphtxoejshzuphzunongbhaxshent,hejhzjgohiuflhubung
ngoxhoejhfussnubjk

“Pej’phrjschpzjjo,hnpg’ohpej?”hpunqhoejhfx gojpphxahTuqutjhLusjgnguk
“Ejshe piugqhm ohejshznoehtj,hugqhNhzuphqjynbeojqhoxheurjhejskhZj’rj
ijjghouylngbhuyyhoejhzuckhUgqhpxhcx ,hNhejushkkkh_rx phanyjdhyjhmusauno
utx skhOugohtnj v,htxghfejs,hougohtnj vk_”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohcx husjhsjajssngbhox,htutug,”hejhugpzjsjqhfxyqyck
“Fxtj,htutug,hyjoh phbxk”

TuqutjhLusjgnguhjgojsjqhoejhfussnubjhubunghoxhpuchbxxq-icjhoxhoej
fx gojppk

“Zjyy,hfx gojpp,hcx heurjhtjohcx shpxg,hugqhNhtchisxoejs,”hpejhpunqk
“Ugqhuyyhtchbxppnmhnphjveu pojqkhNhpex yqheurjhgxoengbhtxsjhoxhojyy
cx k”

“Xe,hgx,”hpunqhoejhfx gojpp,houlngbhejsheugqkh“Nhfx yqhbxhuyyhusx gq
oejhzxsyqhznoehcx hugqhgjrjshijhq yykhCx husjhxgjhxahoexpjhqjynbeoa y
zxtjghnghzexpjhfxtmugchno’phpzjjohoxhijhpnyjgohuphzjyyhuphoxhouylkhGxz
myjupjhqxg’ohasjohxrjshcx shpxg;hcx hfug’ohjvmjfohgjrjshoxhijhmusojqk”

TuqutjhLusjgnguhpoxxqhw nojhponyy,hexyqngbhejspjyahrjschjsjfo,hugqhejs
jcjphzjsjhptnyngbk

“UgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hoejhfx gojpphpunqhnghjvmyuguonxghoxhejshpxg,h“euphu
ynooyjhpxghjnbeohcjusphxyq,hNhijynjrj,hugqhpejheuphgjrjshijjghmusojq
asxthenthijaxsj,hugqhpejhljjmphasjoongbhxrjshyjurngbhentk”

“Cjp,hoejhfx gojpphugqhNheurjhijjghouylngbhuyyhoejhontj,hNhxahtchpxg
ugqhpejhxahejsp,”hpunqhTuqutjhLusjgngu,hugqhubunghuhptnyjhynbeojqh m
ejshaufj,huhfusjppngbhptnyjhngojgqjqhaxshentk

“Nhuthuasunqhoeuohcx ht poheurjhijjghqsjuqa yychixsjq,”hejhpunq,
msxtmoychfuofengbhoejhiuyyhxahfxw joschpejheuqhay gbhentkhI o
ummusjgoychpejhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhm sp jhoejhfxgrjspuonxghnghoeuohposung,
ugqhpejho sgjqhoxhoejhxyqhfx gojppk

“Oeuglhcx hpxht fekhOejhontjheuphmuppjqhpxhw nflyckhBxxq-icj,
fx gojppk”

“Bxxq-icj,htchyxrj,”hugpzjsjqhoejhfx gojppkh“Yjohtjheurjhuhlnpphxahcx s
msjoochaufjkhNhpmjulhmyungyc,huohtchubj,hugqhNhojyyhcx hpntmychoeuo
N’rjhyxpohtchejusohoxhcx k”

Pojsjxocmjqhuphoejhmesupjhzup,hTuqutjhLusjgnguhxirnx pychijynjrjqhno
ugqhzuphqjynbeojqhichnokhPejhay pejq,hijgohqxzghpynbeoyc,hugqhm ohejs
fejjlhoxhoejhfx gojpp’phynmp,hqsjzhejspjyah mhubung,hugqhznoehoejhputj
ptnyjhay oojsngbhijozjjghejshynmphugqhejshjcjp,hpejhburjhejsheugqhox
RsxgplckhEjhmsjppjqhoejhynooyjheugqhpejhburjhent,hugqhzuphqjynbeojq,hup
oex behuohpxtjoengbhpmjfnuy,hichoejhjgjsbjonfhpw jjdjhznoehzenfehpej
asjjychugqhrnbxsx pychpexxlhenpheugqkhPejhzjgohx ohznoehoejhsumnqhpojm
zenfehixsjhejshsuoejsha yyc-qjrjyxmjqhanb sjhznoehp fehposugbj
ynbeogjppk

“Rjschfeustngb,”hpunqhoejhfx gojppk

Oeuohzuph. pohzeuohejshpxghzuphoenglngbkhEnphjcjphaxyyxzjqhejshonyyhejs
bsufja yhanb sjhzuphx ohxahpnbeo,hugqhoejghoejhptnyjhsjtungjqhxghenp
aufjkhEjhpuzhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhexzhpejhzjgoh mhoxhejshisxoejs,hm ohejs
usthnghenp,hugqhijbughojyyngbhenthpxtjoengbhjubjsyc,hxirnx pyc
pxtjoengbhoeuoheuqhgxoengbhoxhqxhznoehent,hRsxgplc,hugqhuohoeuohejhajyo
uggxcjqk

“Zjyy,htutug,husjhcx hmjsajfoychzjyy?”hejhsjmjuojq,ho sgngbhoxhenp
txoejsk

“Jrjscoengbheuphijjghqjynbeoa ykhUyjvugqjsheuphijjghrjschbxxq,hugq
TusnjheuphbsxzghrjschmsjoockhPej’phrjschngojsjpongbk”

Ugqhpejhijbughojyyngbhenthubunghxahzeuohngojsjpojqhejshtxpo—oej
fesnpojgngbhxahejshbsugqpxg,haxshzenfehpejheuqhijjghpoucngbhng
Mjojspi sb,hugqhoejhpmjfnuyhaurxshpexzghejshjyqjshpxghichoejhOpusk

“Ejsj’phYursjgoc,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxz;h“gxzhzjhfug
bx,hnahcx hynljk”

Oejhxyqhi oyjs,hzexheuqhosurjyjqhznoehoejhfx gojpp,hfutjhoxhoej
fussnubjhoxhuggx gfjhoeuohjrjscoengbhzuphsjuqc,hugqhoejhfx gojpphbxoh m
oxhbxk

“Fxtj;hoejsj’phgxohp fehuhfsxzqhgxz,”hpunqhRsxgplck

Oejhtunqhoxxlhuheugqiubhugqhoejhyumhqxb,hoejhi oyjshugqhuhmxsojshoej
xoejshiubbubjkhRsxgplchburjhenphtxoejshenphust;hi oh. pohuphoejchzjsj
bjoongbhx ohxahoejhfussnubjhpjrjsuyhtjghsughp qqjgychichznoe
mugnf-posnfljghaufjpkhOejhpouonxg-tupojs,hoxx,hsughichnghenp
jvosuxsqnguschfxyxsjqhfumkhXirnx pychpxtjoengbh g p uyheuqheummjgjqk
Oejhfsxzqhzexheuqhyjaohoejhosunghzjsjhs ggngbhiuflhubungk

“Zeuo?kkkhZeuo?kkkhZejsj?kkkhAy gbhentpjya!kkkhFs pejq!kkk”hzuphejusq
utxgbhoejhfsxzqkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehenphpnpojshxghenphust,
o sgjqhiuflkhOejchoxxhyxxljqhpfusjq,hugqhpoxmmjqhuohoejhfussnubjhqxxs
oxhurxnqhoejhfsxzqk

Oejhyuqnjphbxohng,hzenyjhRsxgplchugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehaxyyxzjqhoej
fsxzqhoxhangqhx ohqjounyphxahoejhqnpupojsk

Uhb usq,hjnoejshqs glhxshoxxht feht aayjqh mhnghoejhinoojshasxpo,heuq
gxohejusqhoejhosunghtxrngbhiufl,hugqheuqhijjghfs pejqk

IjaxsjhRsxgplchugqhXiyxgplchfutjhiuflhoejhyuqnjphejusqhoejhaufophasxt
oejhi oyjsk

XiyxgplchugqhRsxgplcheuqhixoehpjjghoejht onyuojqhfxsmpjkhXiyxgplchzup
jrnqjgoych mpjokhEjhasxzgjqhugqhpjjtjqhsjuqchoxhfsck

“Ue,hexzhuza y!hUe,hUggu,hnahcx heuqhpjjghno!hUe,hexzhuza y!”hejhpunqk

Rsxgplchqnqhgxohpmjul;henpheugqpxtjhaufjhzuphpjsnx p,hi ohmjsajfoyc
fxtmxpjqk

“Xe,hnahcx heuqhpjjghno,hfx gojpp,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Ugqhenp
znajhzuphoejsjkkkkhNohzuphuza yhoxhpjjhejs!kkkhPejhay gbhejspjyahxghoej
ixqckhOejchpuchejhzuphoejhxgychp mmxsohxahughnttjgpjhautnyckhExz
uza y!”

“Fx yqg’ohxgjhqxhugcoengbhaxshejs?”hpunqhTuqutjhLusjgnguhnghughubnouojq
zenpmjsk

Rsxgplchbyugfjqhuohejs,hugqhnttjqnuojychbxohx ohxahoejhfussnubjk

“N’yyhijhiuflhqnsjfoyc,htutug,”hejhsjtusljq,ho sgngbhsx gqhnghoej
qxxszuck

Zejghejhfutjhiuflhuhajzhtng ojphyuojs,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphuysjuqc
nghfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhfx gojpphuix ohoejhgjzhpngbjs,hzenyjhoej
fx gojpphzuphntmuonjgoychyxxlngbhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hzunongbhaxshejshpxgk

“Gxzhyjoh phijhxaa,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hfxtngbhngkhOejchzjgohx ohoxbjoejsk
RsxgplchzuphnghasxgohznoehenphtxoejskhIjengqhzuyljqhTuqutjhLusjgngu
znoehejshisxoejskh. pohuphoejchzjsjhbxngbhx ohxahoejhpouonxghoej
pouonxg-tupojshxrjsoxxlhRsxgplck

“Cx hburjhtchuppnpougohozxhe gqsjqhsx iyjpkhZx yqhcx hlngqychjvmyung
axshzexpjhijgjanohcx hngojgqhoejt?”

“Axshoejhznqxz,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hpes bbngbhenphpex yqjspkh“Nhpex yqheurj
oex beohoejsjhzuphgxhgjjqhoxhuplk”

“Cx hburjhoeuo?”hfsnjqhXiyxgplc,hijengq,hugq,hmsjppngbhenphpnpojs’p
eugq,hejhuqqjq:h“Rjschgnfj,hrjschgnfj!hNpg’ohejhuhpmyjgqnqhajyyxz?
Bxxq-icj,hfx gojppk”

Ugqhejhugqhenphpnpojshpoxxqhponyy,hyxxlngbhaxshejshtunqk

Zejghoejchzjgohx ohoejhRsxgplc’phfussnubjheuqhuysjuqchqsnrjghuzuck
Mjxmyjhfxtngbhnghzjsjhponyyhouylngbhxahzeuoheummjgjqk

“Zeuohuhexssniyjhqjuoe!”hpunqhuhbjgoyjtug,hmuppngbhickh“Oejchpuchejhzup
f ohnghozxhmnjfjpk”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc,hNhoenglhno’phoejhjupnjpo—ngpougougjx p,”hxipjsrjq
ugxoejsk

“Exzhnphnohoejchqxg’ohouljhmsxmjshmsjfu onxgp?”hpunqhuhoensqk

TuqutjhLusjgnguhpjuojqhejspjyahnghoejhfussnubj,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
puzhznoehp smsnpjhoeuohejshynmphzjsjhw nrjsngb,hugqhpejhzuphznoe
qnaanf yochsjposungngbhejshojuspk

“Zeuohnphno,hUggu?”hejhupljq,hzejghoejcheuqhqsnrjghuhajzhe gqsjqhcusqpk

“No’phughxtjghxahjrny,”hpejhpunqk

“Zeuohgxgpjgpj!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Cx ’rjhfxtj,hoeuo’phoej
fenjahoengbkhCx hfug’ohfxgfjnrjhexzhN’thsjpongbhtchexmjphxghcx k”

“Eurjhcx hlgxzghRsxgplchyxgb?”hpejhupljqk

“CjpkhCx hlgxzhzj’sjhexmngbhejhznyyhtusschLnoock”

“Cjp?”hpunqhUgguhpxaoyckh“Fxtjhgxz,hyjoh phouylhxahcx ,”hpejhuqqjq,
oxppngbhejshejuq,huphoex behpejhzx yqhmecpnfuyychpeuljhxaahpxtjoengb
p mjsay x phxmmsjppngbhejskh“Yjoh phouylhxahcx shuaaunspkhNhbxohcx s
yjoojs,hugqhejsjhNhutk”

“Cjp,huyyhtchexmjphusjhnghcx ,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zjyy,hojyyhtjhuyyhuix ohnok”

UgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehijbughoxhojyyhenphpoxsck

XghsjufengbhextjhXiyxgplchejymjqhenphpnpojshx o,hpnbejq,hmsjppjqhejs
eugq,hugqhpjohxaahoxhenphxaanfjk


Feumojsh19

ZejghUgguhzjgohngoxhoejhsxxt,hQxyychzuphpnoongbhnghoejhynooyj
qsuzngb-sxxthznoehuhzenoj-ejuqjqhauohynooyjhixc,huysjuqchynljhenp
auoejs,hbnrngbhenthuhyjppxghnghAsjgfehsjuqngbkhUphoejhixchsjuq,hejhljmo
oznpongbhugqhoscngbhoxhojushxaahuhi ooxghoeuohzuphgjusychxaahenp
.ufljokhEnphtxoejsheuqhpjrjsuyhontjphouljghenpheugqhasxthno,hi ohoej
auohynooyjheugqhzjgohiuflhoxhoejhi ooxghubungkhEnphtxoejshm yyjqhoej
i ooxghxaahugqhm ohnohnghejshmxfljok

“Ljjmhcx sheugqphponyy,hBsnpeu,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpejhoxxlh mhejshzxsl,hu
fxrjsyjohpejheuqhyxgbhijjghtulngbkhPejhuyzucphpjohoxhzxslhxghnohuo
qjmsjppjqhtxtjgop,hugqhgxzhpejhlgnoojqhuohnohgjsrx pyc,hoznofengbhejs
angbjsphugqhfx gongbhoejhponofejpkhOex behpejheuqhpjgohzxsqhoejhquc
ijaxsjhoxhejshe piugqhoeuohnohzuphgxoengbhoxhejshzejoejshenphpnpojs
futjhxshgxo,hpejheuqhtuqjhjrjscoengbhsjuqchaxshejshussnruy,hugqhzup
jvmjfongbhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzhznoehjtxonxgk

Qxyychzuphfs pejqhichejshpxssxz,h oojsychpzuyyxzjqh mhichnokhPonyyhpej
qnqhgxohaxsbjohoeuohUggu,hejshpnpojs-ng-yuz,hzuphoejhznajhxahxgjhxahoej
txpohntmxsougohmjspxgubjphnghMjojspi sb,hugqhzuphuhMjojspi sbh_bsugqj
qutj_khUgq,hoeuglphoxhoenphfnsf tpougfj,hpejhqnqhgxohfusschx ohejs
oesjuohoxhejshe piugq—oeuohnphoxhpuc,hpejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohejs
pnpojs-ng-yuzhzuphfxtngbkh“Ugq,huaojshuyy,hUgguhnphnghgxhznpjhox
iyutj,”hoex beohQxyyckh“Nhlgxzhgxoengbhxahejshjvfjmohoejhrjschijpo,hugq
Nheurjhpjjghgxoengbhi ohlngqgjpphugqhuaajfonxghasxthejshoxzusqp
tcpjyak”hNohzuphos jhoeuohuphaushuphpejhfx yqhsjfuyyhejshntmsjppnxgphuo
Mjojspi sbhuohoejhLusjgngp’,hpejhqnqhgxohynljhoejnshex pjexyqhnopjya;
oejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhusonanfnuyhnghoejhzexyjhasutjzxslhxahoejnshautnyc
ynajkh“I ohzechpex yqhNhgxohsjfjnrjhejs?hNahxgychpejhqxjpg’ohouljhno
ngoxhejshejuqhoxhfxgpxyjhtj!”hoex beohQxyyckh“Uyyhfxgpxyuonxghugq
fx gpjyhugqhFesnponughaxsbnrjgjpp,huyyhoeuohNheurjhoex beohxrjshu
oex pugqhontjp,hugqhno’phuyyhgxh pjk”

UyyhoejpjhqucphQxyycheuqhijjghuyxgjhznoehejshfenyqsjgkhPejhqnqhgxohzugo
oxhouylhxahejshpxssxz,hi ohznoehoeuohpxssxzhnghejshejusohpejhfx yqhgxo
ouylhxahx opnqjhtuoojspkhPejhlgjzhoeuohnghxgjhzuchxshugxoejshpejhzx yq
ojyyhUgguhjrjscoengb,hugqhpejhzuphuyojsguojychbyuqhuohoejhoex beohxa
pmjulngbhasjjyc,hugqhugbschuohoejhgjfjppnochxahpmjulngbhxahejs
e tnynuonxghznoehejs,henphpnpojs,hugqhxahejusngbhejshsjuqc-tuqjhmesupjp
xahbxxqhuqrnfjhugqhfxtaxsokhPejheuqhijjghxghoejhyxxlx ohaxshejs,
byugfngbhuohejshzuofehjrjschtng oj,hugq,huphpxhxaojgheummjgp,hyjohpynm
. pohoeuohtng ojhzejghejshrnpnoxshussnrjq,hpxhoeuohpejhqnqhgxohejushoej
ijyyk

Fuofengbhuhpx gqhxahplnsophugqhynbeohpojmphuohoejhqxxs,hpejhyxxljq
sx gq,hugqhejshfusj-zxsghaufjh gfxgpfnx pychjvmsjppjqhgxohbyuqgjpp,hi o
zxgqjskhPejhbxoh mhugqhjtisufjqhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzk

“Zeuo,hejsjhuysjuqc!”hpejhpunqhuphpejhlnppjqhejsk

“Qxyyc,hexzhbyuqhNhuthoxhpjjhcx !”

“Nhuthbyuq,hoxx,”hpunqhQxyyc,haungoychptnyngb,hugqhoscngbhichoej
jvmsjppnxghxahUggu’phaufjhoxhangqhx ohzejoejshpejhlgjzkh“Txpohynljyc
pejhlgxzp,”hpejhoex beo,hgxonfngbhoejhpctmuoechnghUggu’phaufjkh“Zjyy,
fxtjhuyxgb,hN’yyhouljhcx hoxhcx shsxxt,”hpejhzjgohxg,hoscngbhoxhqjajs
uphyxgbhuphmxppniyjhoejhtxtjgohxahfxganqjgfjpk

“NphoenphBsnpeu?hEjurjgp,hexzhej’phbsxzg!”hpunqhUggu;hugqhlnppngbhent,
gjrjshoulngbhejshjcjphxaahQxyyc,hpejhpoxxqhponyyhugqhay pejqhuhynooyjk
“Gx,hmyjupj,hyjoh phpouchejsjk”

Pejhoxxlhxaahejshljsfenjahugqhejsheuo,hugqhfuofengbhnohnghuhyxflhxahejs
iyuflheuns,hzenfehzuphuhtupphxahf syp,hpejhoxppjqhejshejuqhugqhpexxl
ejsheunshqxzgk

“Cx husjhsuqnugohznoehejuyoehugqheummngjpp!”hpunqhQxyyc,huytxpohznoe
jgrck

“N?kkkhCjp,”hpunqhUggukh“Tjsfna yhejurjgp,hOugcu!hCx ’sjhoejhputjhubj
uphtchPjscxdeu,”hpejhuqqjq,huqqsjppngbhoejhynooyjhbnsyhuphpejhsughngk
Pejhoxxlhejshnghejshustphugqhlnppjqhejskh“Qjynbeoa yhfenyq,hqjynbeoa y!
Pexzhtjhoejthuyyk”

Pejhtjgonxgjqhoejt,hgxohxgychsjtjtijsngbhoejhgutjp,hi ohoejhcjusp,
txgoep,hfeusufojsp,hnyygjppjphxahuyyhoejhfenyqsjg,hugqhQxyychfx yqhgxo
i ohummsjfnuojhoeuok

“Rjschzjyy,hzjhznyyhbxhoxhoejt,”hpejhpunqkh“No’phuhmnochRuppcu’p
upyjjmk”

Uaojshpjjngbhoejhfenyqsjg,hoejchpuohqxzg,huyxgjhgxz,hnghoej
qsuzngb-sxxt,hoxhfxaajjkhUgguhoxxlhoejhosuc,hugqhoejghm pejqhnohuzuc
asxthejsk

“Qxyyc,”hpejhpunq,h“ejheuphoxyqhtjk”

QxyychyxxljqhfxyqychuohUggu;hpejhzuphzunongbhgxzhaxshmesupjphxa
fxgrjgonxguyhpctmuoec,hi ohUgguhpunqhgxoengbhxahoejhpxsok

“Qxyyc,hqjus,”hpejhpunq,h“Nhqxg’ohzugohoxhpmjulhaxshenthoxhcx ,hgxshox
oschoxhfxtaxsohcx ;hoeuo’phntmxppniyjkhI o,hqusyngb,hN’thpntmychpxssc,
pxsschasxthtchejusohaxshcx !”

 gqjshoejhoenflhyupejphxahejshpengngbhjcjphojusphp qqjgychbynoojsjqk
Pejhtxrjqhgjusjshoxhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzhugqhoxxlhejsheugqhnghejshrnbxsx p
ynooyjheugqkhQxyychqnqhgxohpesnglhuzuc,hi ohejshaufjhqnqhgxohyxpjhnop
asnbnqhjvmsjppnxgkhPejhpunq:

“Oxhfxtaxsohtj’phntmxppniyjkhJrjscoengb’phyxpohuaojshzeuoheupheummjgjq,
jrjscoengb’phxrjs!”

Ugqhqnsjfoychpejheuqhpunqhoenp,hejshaufjhp qqjgychpxaojgjqkhUgguhynaojq
oejhzupojq,hoengheugqhxahQxyyc,hlnppjqhnohugqhpunq:

“I o,hQxyyc,hzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj,hzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hExzhnphnohijpohox
ufohnghoenphuza yhmxpnonxg—oeuo’phzeuohcx ht pohoenglhxak”

“Uyy’phxrjs,hugqhoejsj’phgxoengbhtxsj,”hpunqhQxyyckh“Ugqhoejhzxspohxa
uyyhnp,hcx hpjj,hoeuohNhfug’ohfupohenthxaa:hoejsjhusjhoejhfenyqsjg,hN
uthonjqkhUgqhNhfug’ohynrjhznoehent!hno’phuhoxso sjhoxhtjhoxhpjjhentk”

“Qxyyc,hqusyngb,hejheuphpmxljghoxhtj,hi ohNhzugohoxhejushnohasxthcx :
ojyyhtjhuix ohnok”

Qxyychyxxljqhuohejshngw nsngbyck

Pctmuoechugqhyxrjh gajnbgjqhzjsjhrnpniyjhxghUggu’phaufjk

“Rjschzjyy,”hpejhpunqhuyyhuohxgfjkh“I ohNhznyyhojyyhcx hnohasxthoej
ijbnggngbkhCx hlgxzhexzhNhzuphtussnjqkhZnoehoejhjq fuonxghtuttuhburjh p
Nhzuphtxsjhoeughnggxfjgo,hNhzuphpo mnqkhNhlgjzhgxoengbkhNhlgxzhoejchpuc
tjghojyyhoejnshznrjphxahoejnshaxstjshynrjp,hi ohPonru”—pejhfxssjfojq
ejspjya—“PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxyqhtjhgxoengbkhCx ’yyheusqychijynjrjhno,
i ohonyyhgxzhNhntubngjqhoeuohNhzuphoejhxgychzxtughejheuqhlgxzgkhPxhN
ynrjqhjnbeohcjuspkhCx ht poh gqjspougqhoeuohNhzuphpxhaushasxt
p pmjfongbhnganqjynoc,hNhsjbusqjqhnohuphntmxppniyj,hugqhoejg—oschox
ntubngjhno—znoehp fehnqjup,hoxhangqhx ohp qqjgychuyyhoejhexssxs,huyy
oejhyxuoepxtjgjppkkkkhCx ht pohoschugqh gqjspougqhtjkhOxhijha yyc
fxgrngfjqhxahxgj’pheummngjpp,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjkkkk”hfxgong jqhQxyyc,
exyqngbhiuflhejshpxip,h“oxhbjohuhyjoojshkkkhenphyjoojshoxhenphtnposjpp,
tchbxrjsgjppkhGx,hno’phoxxhuza y!”hPejheuponychm yyjqhx ohejs
eugqljsfenjahugqhenqhejshaufjhnghnokh“Nhfugh gqjspougqhijngbhfussnjq
uzuchichajjyngb,”hpejhzjgohxghuaojshuhisnjahpnyjgfj,h“i ohqjynijsuojyc,
pycychqjfjnrngbhtjhkkkhugqhznoehzext?kkkhOxhbxhxghijngbhtche piugq
oxbjoejshznoehejshkkkhno’phuza y!hCx hfug’oh gqjspougqkkkk”

“Xe,hcjp,hNh gqjspougq!hNh gqjspougq!hQxyyc,hqjusjpo,hNhqxh gqjspougq,”
punqhUggu,hmsjppngbhejsheugqk

“Ugqhqxhcx hntubngjhejhsjuyndjphuyyhoejhuza ygjpphxahtchmxpnonxg?”
Qxyychsjp tjqkh“Gxohoejhpynbeojpo!hEj’pheummchugqhfxgojgojqk”

“Xe,hgx!”hUgguhngojsmxpjqhw nflyckh“Ej’phoxhijhmnonjq,hej’phzjnbejq
qxzghichsjtxspjkkkk”

“Nphejhfumuiyjhxahsjtxspj?”hQxyychngojss mojq,hbudngbhngojgoychngoxhejs
pnpojs-ng-yuz’phaufjk

“CjpkhNhlgxzhentkhNhfx yqhgxohyxxlhuohenthznoex ohajjyngbhpxsschaxs
entkhZjhixoehlgxzhentkhEj’phbxxq-ejusojq,hi ohej’phmsx q,hugqhgxzhej’p
pxhe tnynuojqkhZeuohox fejqhtjhtxpokkkk”h(ugqhejsjhUgguhb jppjqhzeuo
zx yqhox fehQxyychtxpo)h“ej’phoxso sjqhichozxhoengbp:hoeuohej’phupeutjq
axshoejhfenyqsjg’phpulj,hugqhoeuo,hyxrngbhcx —cjp,hcjp,hyxrngbhcx 
ijcxgqhjrjscoengbhxghjusoe,”hpejhe ssnjqychngojss mojqhQxyyc,hzexhzx yq
eurjhugpzjsjq—“ejheuphe sohcx ,hmnjsfjqhcx hoxhoejhejusokh‘Gx,hgx,hpej
fuggxohaxsbnrjhtj,’hejhljjmphpucngbk”

Qxyychyxxljqhqsjutnychuzuchijcxgqhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzhuphpejhynpojgjqhox
ejshzxsqpk

“Cjp,hNhfughpjjhoeuohenphmxpnonxghnphuza y;hno’phzxspjhaxshoejhb nyoc
oeughoejhnggxfjgo,”hpejhpunq,h“nahejhajjyphoeuohuyyhoejhtnpjschfxtjp
asxthenphau yokhI ohexzhuthNhoxhaxsbnrjhent,hexzhuthNhoxhijhenphznaj
ubunghuaojshejs?hAxshtjhoxhynrjhznoehenthgxzhzx yqhijhoxso sj,h. po
ijfu pjhNhyxrjhtchmupohyxrjhaxshentkkkk”

Ugqhpxiphf ohpexsohejshzxsqpkhI ohuphoex behxahpjohqjpnbg,hjufehontj
pejhzuphpxaojgjqhpejhijbughoxhpmjulhubunghxahzeuohjvupmjsuojqhejsk

“Pej’phcx gb,hcx hpjj,hpej’phmsjooc,”hpejhzjgohxgkh“Qxhcx hlgxz,hUggu,
tchcx oehugqhtchiju ochusjhbxgj,houljghichzext?hIchenthugqhenp
fenyqsjgkhNheurjhzxsljqhaxshent,hugqhuyyhNheuqheuphbxgjhnghenphpjsrnfj,
ugqhgxzhxahfx spjhugchasjpe,hr ybushfsjuo sjheuphtxsjhfeusthaxshentkhGx
qx iohoejchouyljqhxahtjhoxbjoejs,hxs,hzxspjhponyy,hoejchzjsjhpnyjgokhQx
cx h gqjspougq?”

Ubunghejshjcjphbyxzjqhznoeheuosjqk

“UgqhuaojshoeuohejhznyyhojyyhtjkkkkhZeuo!hfughNhijynjrjhent?hGjrjs!hGx,
jrjscoengbhnphxrjs,hjrjscoengbhoeuohxgfjhtuqjhtchfxtaxso,hoejhsjzusqhxa
tchzxsl,hugqhtchp aajsngbpkkkkhZx yqhcx hijynjrjhno,hNhzuphojufengb
Bsnpeuh. pohgxz:hxgfjhoenphzuphuh.xchoxhtj,hgxzhnohnphuhoxso sjkhZeuo
eurjhNhoxhposnrjhugqhoxnyhaxs?hZechusjhoejhfenyqsjghejsj?hZeuo’phpx
uza yhnphoeuohuyyhuohxgfjhtchejuso’pho sgjq,hugqhngpojuqhxahyxrjhugq
ojgqjsgjpp,hNheurjhgxoengbhi oheuosjqhaxshent;hcjp,heuosjqkhNhfx yq
lnyyhentk”

“QusyngbhQxyyc,hNh gqjspougq,hi ohqxg’ohoxso sjhcx spjyakhCx husjhpx
qnposjppjq,hpxhxrjszsx beo,hoeuohcx hyxxlhuohtugchoengbphtnpouljgyck”

Qxyychbsjzhfuytjs,hugqhaxshozxhtng ojphixoehzjsjhpnyjgok

“Zeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hOenglhaxshtj,hUggu,hejymhtjkhNheurjhoex beohxrjs
jrjscoengb,hugqhNhpjjhgxoengbk”

Ugguhfx yqhoenglhxahgxoengb,hi ohejshejusohsjpmxgqjqhngpougoychoxhjufe
zxsq,hoxhjufehfeugbjhxahjvmsjppnxghxahejshpnpojs-ng-yuzk

“XgjhoengbhNhzx yqhpuc,”hijbughUggukh“Nhuthenphpnpojs,hNhlgxzhenp
feusufojs,hoeuohauf yochxahaxsbjoongbhjrjscoengb,hjrjscoengb”h(pej
zurjqhejsheugqhijaxsjhejshaxsjejuq),h“oeuohauf yochaxshijngbhfxtmyjojyc
fussnjqhuzuc,hi ohaxshfxtmyjojychsjmjgongbhoxxkhEjhfuggxohijynjrjhno,
ejhfuggxohfxtmsjejgqhgxzhexzhejhfugheurjhufojqhuphejhqnqk”

“Gx;hejh gqjspougqp,hejh gqjspoxxq!”hQxyychisxljhngkh“I ohNhkkkhcx husj
axsbjoongbhtjhkkkhqxjphnohtuljhnohjupnjshaxshtj?”

“Zunohuhtng ojkhZejghejhoxyqhtj,hNhznyyhxzghNhqnqhgxohsjuyndjhuyyhoej
uza ygjpphxahcx shmxpnonxgkhNhpuzhgxoengbhi ohent,hugqhoeuohoejhautnyc
zuphisxljgh mkhNhajyohpxsschaxshent,hi ohuaojshouylngbhoxhcx ,hNhpjj
no,huphuhzxtug,hw nojhqnaajsjgoyckhNhpjjhcx shubxgc,hugqhNhfug’ohojyy
cx hexzhpxsschNhuthaxshcx !hI o,hQxyyc,hqusyngb,hNha yychsjuyndjhcx s
p aajsngbp,hxgychoejsjhnphxgjhoengbhNhqxg’ohlgxz;hNhqxg’ohlgxzhkkkhN
qxg’ohlgxzhexzht fehyxrjhoejsjhnphponyyhnghcx shejusohaxshentkhOeuohcx 
lgxz—zejoejshoejsjhnphjgx behaxshcx hoxhijhuiyjhoxhaxsbnrjhentkhNa
oejsjhnp,haxsbnrjhent!”

“Gx,”hQxyychzuphijbnggngb,hi ohUgguhf ohejshpexso,hlnppngbhejsheugq
xgfjhtxsjk

“Nhlgxzhtxsjhxahoejhzxsyqhoeughcx hqx,”hpejhpunqkh“Nhlgxzhexzhtjghynlj
PonruhyxxlhuohnokhCx hpmjulhxahenphouylngbhxahcx hznoehejskhOeuohgjrjs
eummjgjqkhP fehtjghusjh gaunoea y,hi ohoejnshextjhugqhznajhusjhpufsjq
oxhoejtkhPxtjexzhxshxoejshoejpjhzxtjghusjhponyyhyxxljqhxghznoehfxgojtmo
ichoejt,hugqhqxhgxohox fehxghoejnshajjyngbhaxshoejnshautnyckhOejchqsuz
uhpxsohxahyngjhoeuohfug’ohijhfsxppjqhijozjjghoejthugqhoejnshautnynjpkhN
qxg’oh gqjspougqhno,hi ohnohnphpxk”

“Cjp,hi ohejheuphlnppjqhejskkkk”

“Qxyyc,he pe,hqusyngbkhNhpuzhPonruhzejghejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehcx khN
sjtjtijshoejhontjhzejghejhfutjhoxhtjhugqhfsnjq,houylngbhxahcx ,hugqhuyy
oejhmxjoschugqhyxaongjpphxahenphajjyngbhaxshcx ,hugqhNhlgxzhoeuohoej
yxgbjshejheuphynrjqhznoehcx hoejhyxaonjshcx heurjhijjghnghenphjcjpkhCx 
lgxzhzjheurjhpxtjontjphyu bejqhuohenthaxshm oongbhnghuohjrjschzxsq:
‘Qxyyc’phuhtusrjyx phzxtugk’hCx heurjhuyzucphijjghuhqnrngnochaxshent,
ugqhcx husjhoeuohponyy,hugqhoenpheuphgxohijjghughnganqjynochxahoej
ejusokkkk”

“I ohnahnohnphsjmjuojq?”

“Nohfuggxohij,huphNh gqjspougqhnokkkk”

“Cjp,hi ohfx yqhcx haxsbnrjhno?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz,hNhfug’oh. qbjkkkkhCjp,hNhfug,”hpunqhUggu,hoenglngbhu
txtjgo;hugqhbsupmngbhoejhmxpnonxghnghejshoex beohugqhzjnbengbhnohnghejs
nggjshiuyugfj,hpejhuqqjq:h“Cjp,hNhfug,hNhfug,hNhfugkhCjp,hNhfx yq
axsbnrjhnokhNhfx yqhgxohijhoejhputj,hgx;hi ohNhfx yqhaxsbnrjhno,hugq
axsbnrjhnohuphoex behnoheuqhgjrjshijjg,hgjrjshijjghuohuyykkkk”

“Xe,hxahfx spj,”hQxyychngojsmxpjqhw nflyc,huphoex behpucngbhzeuohpej
euqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhoex beo,h“jypjhnohzx yqhgxohijhaxsbnrjgjppkhNahxgj
axsbnrjp,hnoht pohijhfxtmyjojyc,hfxtmyjojyckhFxtj,hyjoh phbx;hN’yyhoulj
cx hoxhcx shsxxt,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh m,hugqhxghoejhzuchpejhjtisufjq
Uggukh“Tchqjus,hexzhbyuqhNhuthcx hfutjkhNoheuphtuqjhoengbphijoojs,hjrjs
pxht fehijoojsk”


Feumojsh20

OejhzexyjhxahoeuohquchUgguhpmjgohuohextj,hoeuo’phoxhpuchuohoej
Xiyxgplcp’,hugqhsjfjnrjqhgxhxgj,hoex behpxtjhxahejshufw ungougfjpheuq
uysjuqchejusqhxahejshussnruy,hugqhfutjhoxhfuyyhoejhputjhquckhUgguhpmjgo
oejhzexyjhtxsgngbhznoehQxyychugqhoejhfenyqsjgkhPejhtjsjychpjgohuhisnja
gxojhoxhejshisxoejshoxhojyyhenthoeuohejht pohgxohaunyhoxhqngjhuohextjk
“Fxtj,hBxqhnphtjsfna y,”hpejhzsxojk

Xiyxgplchqnqhqngjhuohextj:hoejhfxgrjspuonxghzuphbjgjsuy,hugqhenphznaj,
pmjulngbhoxhent,huqqsjppjqhenthuph“Ponru,”huphpejheuqhgxohqxgjhijaxsjk
Nghoejhsjyuonxgphxahoejhe piugqhugqhznajhoejhputjhjposugbjtjgohponyy
sjtungjq,hi ohoejsjhzuphgxhouylhgxzhxahpjmusuonxg,hugqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehpuzhoejhmxppninynochxahjvmyuguonxghugqhsjfxgfnynuonxgk

NttjqnuojychuaojshqnggjshLnoochfutjhngkhPejhlgjzhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hi o
xgychrjschpynbeoyc,hugqhpejhfutjhgxzhoxhejshpnpojs’phznoehpxtj
osjmnquonxg,huohoejhmsxpmjfohxahtjjongbhoenphaupenxguiyjhMjojspi sb
yuqc,hzexthjrjscxgjhpmxljhpxhenbeychxakhI ohpejhtuqjhuhaurxsuiyj
ntmsjppnxghxghUgguhUsluqcjrgu—pejhpuzhoeuohuohxgfjkhUgguhzup
 gtnpouluiychuqtnsngbhejshyxrjyngjpphugqhejshcx oe:hijaxsjhLnoochlgjz
zejsjhpejhzuphpejhax gqhejspjyahgxohtjsjych gqjshUggu’phpzuc,hi ohng
yxrjhznoehejs,huphcx gbhbnsyphqxhauyyhnghyxrjhznoehxyqjshugqhtussnjq
zxtjgkhUgguhzuphgxohynljhuhaupenxguiyjhyuqc,hgxshoejhtxoejshxahuhixchxa
jnbeohcjusphxyqkhNghoejhjyuponfnochxahejshtxrjtjgop,hoejhasjpegjpphugq
oejh gayubbngbhjubjsgjpphzenfehmjspnpojqhnghejshaufj,hugqhisxljhx ohng
ejshptnyjhugqhejshbyugfj,hpejhzx yqhsuoejsheurjhmuppjqhaxshuhbnsyhxa
ozjgoc,heuqhnohgxohijjghaxshuhpjsnx phugqhuohontjphtx sga yhyxxlhnghejs
jcjp,hzenfehpos flhugqhuoosufojqhLnoockhLnoochajyohoeuohUgguhzup
mjsajfoychpntmyjhugqhzuphfxgfjuyngbhgxoengb,hi ohoeuohpejheuqhugxoejs
enbejshzxsyqhxahngojsjpophnguffjppniyjhoxhejs,hfxtmyjvhugqhmxjonfk

Uaojshqnggjs,hzejghQxyychzjgohuzuchoxhejshxzghsxxt,hUgguhsxpjhw nflyc
ugqhzjgoh mhoxhejshisxoejs,hzexhzuph. pohynbeongbhuhfnbusk

“Ponru,”hpejhpunqhoxhent,hznglngbhbunyc,hfsxppngbhenthugqhbyugfngb
oxzusqphoejhqxxs,h“bx,hugqhBxqhejymhcx k”

Ejhoesjzhqxzghoejhfnbus,h gqjspougqngbhejs,hugqhqjmusojqhoesx behoej
qxxszuck

ZejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhqnpummjusjq,hpejhzjgohiuflhoxhoejhpxau
zejsjhpejheuqhijjghpnoongb,hp ssx gqjqhichoejhfenyqsjgkhJnoejshijfu pj
oejhfenyqsjghpuzhoeuohoejnshtxoejshzuphaxgqhxahoenphu go,hxshoeuohoejc
ajyohuhpmjfnuyhfeusthnghejshoejtpjyrjp,hoejhozxhjyqjshxgjp,hugqhoej
cx gbjshaxyyxzngbhoejnshyjuq,huphfenyqsjghpxhxaojghqx,heuqhfy gbhuix o
oejnshgjzhu gohpngfjhijaxsjhqnggjs,hugqhzx yqhgxohyjurjhejshpnqjkhUgq
noheuqhijfxtjhuhpxsohxahbutjhutxgbhoejthoxhpnohuhfyxpjhuphmxppniyjhox
oejnshu go,hoxhox fehejs,hexyqhejshynooyjheugq,hlnpphno,hmyuchznoehejs
sngb,hxshjrjghox fehoejhayx gfjhxahejshplnsok

“Fxtj,hfxtj,huphzjhzjsjhpnoongbhijaxsj,”hpunqhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hpnoongb
qxzghnghejshmyufjk

UgqhubunghBsnpeuhmxljqhenphynooyjhaufjh gqjshejshust,hugqhgjpoyjqhznoe
enphejuqhxghejshbxzg,hijutngbhznoehmsnqjhugqheummngjppk

“Ugqhzejghnphcx shgjvohiuyy?”hpejhupljqhLnoock

“Gjvohzjjl,hugqhuhpmyjgqnqhiuyykhXgjhxahoexpjhiuyyphzejsjhxgjhuyzucp
jg.xcphxgjpjyak”

“Zec,husjhoejsjhiuyyphzejsjhxgjhuyzucphjg.xcphxgjpjya?”hUgguhpunq,hznoe
ojgqjshnsxgck

“No’phposugbj,hi ohoejsjhusjkhUohoejhIxisnpeofejrp’hxgjhuyzucphjg.xcp
xgjpjya,hugqhuohoejhGnlnongp’hoxx,hzenyjhuohoejhTjdelxrp’hno’phuyzucp
q yykhEurjg’ohcx hgxonfjqhno?”

“Gx,htchqjus,haxshtjhoejsjhusjhgxhiuyyphgxzhzejsjhxgjhjg.xcphxgjpjya,”
punqhUggu,hugqhLnoochqjojfojqhnghejshjcjphoeuohtcpojsnx phzxsyqhzenfe
zuphgxohxmjghoxhejskh“Axshtjhoejsjhusjhpxtjhyjpphq yyhugqhonsjpxtjk”

“Exzhfugh_cx _hijhq yyhuohuhiuyy?”

“Zechpex yqhgxoh_N_hijhq yyhuohuhiuyy?”hngw nsjqhUgguk

LnoochmjsfjnrjqhoeuohUgguhlgjzhzeuohugpzjshzx yqhaxyyxzk

“Ijfu pjhcx huyzucphyxxlhgnfjshoeughugcxgjk”

Ugguheuqhoejhauf yochxahiy pengbkhPejhiy pejqhuhynooyj,hugqhpunq:

“Nghoejhanspohmyufjhno’phgjrjshpx;hugqhpjfxgqyc,hnahnohzjsj,hzeuo
qnaajsjgfjhzx yqhnohtuljhoxhtj?”

“Usjhcx hfxtngbhoxhoenphiuyy?”hupljqhLnoock

“Nhntubngjhnohzxg’ohijhmxppniyjhoxhurxnqhbxngbkhEjsj,houljhno,”hpej
punqhoxhOugcu,hzexhzuphm yyngbhoejhyxxpjyc-anoongbhsngbhxaahejshzenoj,
pyjgqjs-onmmjqhangbjsk

“Nhpeuyyhijhpxhbyuqhnahcx hbxkhNhpex yqhpxhynljhoxhpjjhcx huohuhiuyyk”

“Ugczuc,hnahNhqxhbx,hNhpeuyyhfxtaxsohtcpjyahznoehoejhoex beohoeuohno’p
uhmyjup sjhoxhcx hkkkhBsnpeu,hqxg’ohm yyhtcheunskhNo’ph gonqchjgx be
znoex ohoeuo,”hpejhpunq,hm oongbh mhuhposucngbhyxfl,hzenfehBsnpeuheuq
ijjghmyucngbhznoek

“Nhntubngjhcx huohoejhiuyyhnghynyufk”

“Ugqhzechnghynyufhmsjfnpjyc?”hupljqhUggu,hptnyngbkh“Gxz,hfenyqsjg,hs g
uyxgb,hs ghuyxgbkhQxhcx hejus?hTnpphExxyjhnphfuyyngbhcx hoxhoju,”hpej
punq,hojusngbhoejhfenyqsjghasxthejs,hugqhpjgqngbhoejthxaahoxhoej
qngngb-sxxtk

“Nhlgxzhzechcx hmsjpphtjhoxhfxtjhoxhoejhiuyykhCx hjvmjfohuhbsjuohqjuy
xahoenphiuyy,hugqhcx hzugohjrjscxgjhoxhijhoejsjhoxhouljhmusohnghnok”

“Exzhqxhcx hlgxz?hCjpk”

“Xe!hzeuohuheummchontjhcx husjhuo,”hm sp jqhUggukh“Nhsjtjtijs,hugqhN
lgxzhoeuohiy jheudjhynljhoejhtnpohxghoejhtx goungphnghPznodjsyugqkhOeuo
tnpohzenfehfxrjsphjrjscoengbhnghoeuohiynppa yhontjhzejghfenyqexxqhnp
. pohjgqngb,hugqhx ohxahoeuohrupohfnsfyj,heummchugqhbuc,hoejsjhnphu
muoehbsxzngbhgussxzjshugqhgussxzjs,hugqhnohnphqjynbeoa yhugqhuyustngb
oxhjgojshoejhiuyysxxt,hisnbeohugqhpmyjgqnqhuphnohnpkkkkhZexheuphgxo
ijjghoesx behno?”

Lnoochptnyjqhznoex ohpmjulngbkh“I ohexzhqnqhpejhbxhoesx behno?hExzhN
pex yqhynljhoxhlgxzhuyyhejshyxrjhpoxsc!”hoex beohLnooc,hsjfuyyngbhoej
 gsxtugonfhummjusugfjhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hejshe piugqk

“NhlgxzhpxtjoengbkhPonruhoxyqhtj,hugqhNhfxgbsuo yuojhcx khNhynljqhent
pxht fe,”hUgguhfxgong jqkh“NhtjohRsxgplchuohoejhsunyzuchpouonxgk”

“Xe,hzuphejhoejsj?”hupljqhLnooc,hiy pengbkh“ZeuohzuphnohPonruhoxyq
cx ?”

“Ponruhbxppnmjqhuix ohnohuyykhUgqhNhpex yqhijhpxhbyuqhkkkhNhosurjyjq
cjpojsquchznoehRsxgplc’phtxoejs,”hpejhzjgohxg;h“ugqhenphtxoejshouyljq
znoex ohuhmu pjhxahent,hej’phejshaurxsnojkhNhlgxzhtxoejsphusjhmusonuy,
i okkkk”

“Zeuohqnqhenphtxoejshojyyhcx ?”

“Xe,huhbsjuohqjuy!hUgqhNhlgxzhoeuohej’phejshaurxsnoj;hponyyhxgjhfughpjj
exzhfenruysx phejhnpkkkkhZjyy,haxshngpougfj,hpejhoxyqhtjhoeuohejheuq
zugojqhoxhbnrjh mhuyyhenphmsxmjsochoxhenphisxoejs,hoeuohejheuqhqxgj
pxtjoengbhjvosuxsqnguschzejghejhzuphw nojhuhfenyq,hpurjqhuhzxtughx ohxa
oejhzuojskhEj’phuhejsx,hnghaufo,”hpunqhUggu,hptnyngbhugqhsjfxyyjfongb
oejhozxhe gqsjqhsx iyjphejheuqhbnrjghuohoejhpouonxgk

I ohpejhqnqhgxohojyyhLnoochuix ohoejhozxhe gqsjqhsx iyjpkhAxshpxtj
sjupxghnohzuphqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhejshoxhoenglhxahnokhPejhajyohoeuohoejsj
zuphpxtjoengbhoeuoheuqhoxhqxhznoehejshnghno,hugqhpxtjoengbhoeuohx beo
gxohoxheurjhijjgk

“Pejhmsjppjqhtjhrjscht fehoxhbxhugqhpjjhejs,”hUgguhzjgohxg;h“ugqhN
peuyyhijhbyuqhoxhbxhoxhpjjhejshoxtxssxzkhPonruhnphpoucngbhuhyxgbhzenyj
nghQxyyc’phsxxt,hoeuglhBxq,”hUgguhuqqjq,hfeugbngbhoejhp i.jfo,hugq
bjoongbh m,hLnoochaugfnjq,hqnpmyjupjqhznoehpxtjoengbk

“Gx,hN’thanspo!hGx,hN!”hpfsjutjqhoejhfenyqsjg,hzexheuqhangnpejqhoju,
s ggngbh mhoxhoejnshU gohUgguk

“Uyyhoxbjoejs,”hpunqhUggu,hugqhpejhsughyu bengbhoxhtjjohoejt,hugq
jtisufjqhugqhpz gbhsx gqhuyyhoejhoesxgbhxahpzustngbhfenyqsjg,hpesnjlngb
znoehqjynbeok


Feumojsh21

Qxyychfutjhx ohxahejshsxxthoxhoejhojuhxahoejhbsxzg- mhmjxmyjkhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehqnqhgxohfxtjhx okhEjht poheurjhyjaohenphznaj’phsxxthichoej
xoejshqxxsk

“Nhuthuasunqhcx ’yyhijhfxyqh mpounsp,”hxipjsrjqhQxyyc,huqqsjppngbhUggu;
“Nhzugohoxhtxrjhcx hqxzgpounsp,hugqhzjhpeuyyhijhgjusjsk”

“Xe,hmyjupj,hqxg’ohosx iyjhuix ohtj,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,hyxxlngbhngojgoyc
ngoxhQxyyc’phaufj,hoscngbhoxhtuljhx ohzejoejshoejsjheuqhijjghu
sjfxgfnynuonxghxshgxok

“Nohznyyhijhynbeojshaxshcx hejsj,”hugpzjsjqhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzk

“Nhupp sjhcx hoeuohNhpyjjmhjrjsczejsj,hugqhuyzucphynljhuhtustxok”

“Zeuo’phoejhw jponxg?”hngw nsjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hfxtngbhx ohxahenp
sxxthugqhuqqsjppngbhenphznajk

AsxthenphoxgjhixoehLnoochugqhUgguhlgjzhoeuohuhsjfxgfnynuonxgheuqhouljg
myufjk

“NhzugohoxhtxrjhUgguhqxzgpounsp,hi ohzjht poheugbh mhiyngqpkhGxhxgj
lgxzphexzhoxhqxhno;hNht pohpjjhoxhnohtcpjya,”hugpzjsjqhQxyychuqqsjppngb
entk

“Bxqhlgxzphzejoejshoejchusjha yychsjfxgfnyjq,”hoex beohUggu,hejusngb
ejshoxgj,hfxyqhugqhfxtmxpjqk

“Xe,hgxgpjgpj,hQxyyc,huyzucphtulngbhqnaanf yonjp,”hugpzjsjqhejs
e piugqkh“Fxtj,hN’yyhqxhnohuyy,hnahcx hynljkkkk”

“Cjp,hoejcht pohijhsjfxgfnyjq,”hoex beohUgguk

“Nhlgxzhexzhcx hqxhjrjscoengb,”hugpzjsjqhQxyyckh“Cx hojyyhTuorjchoxhqx
zeuohfug’ohijhqxgj,hugqhbxhuzuchcx spjya,hyjurngbhenthoxhtuljhuht qqyj
xahjrjscoengb,”hugqhejsheuino uy,htxflngbhptnyjhf srjqhoejhfxsgjsphxa
Qxyyc’phynmphuphpejhpmxljk

“A yy,ha yyhsjfxgfnynuonxg,ha yy,”hoex beohUggu;h“oeuglhBxq!”hugq
sj.xnfngbhoeuohpejhzuphoejhfu pjhxahno,hpejhzjgoh mhoxhQxyychugqhlnppjq
ejsk

“GxohuohuyykhZechqxhcx huyzucphyxxlhqxzghxghtjhugqhTuorjc?”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbheusqychmjsfjmoniyc,hugqhuqqsjppngbhenphznajk

OejhzexyjhjrjgngbhQxyychzup,huphuyzucp,huhynooyjhtxflngbhnghejshoxgjhox
ejshe piugq,hzenyjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzupheummchugqhfejjsa y,hi ohgxo
pxhuphoxhpjjthuphoex be,heurngbhijjghaxsbnrjg,hejheuqhaxsbxoojghenp
xaajgpjk

Uoheuya-mupohgngjhx’fyxflhuhmusonf yusych.xca yhugqhmyjupugohautnyc
fxgrjspuonxghxrjshoejhoju-ouiyjhuohoejhXiyxgplcp’hzuphisxljgh mhichug
ummusjgoychpntmyjhngfnqjgokhI ohoenphpntmyjhngfnqjgohaxshpxtjhsjupxg
pos flhjrjscxgjhuphposugbjkhOuylngbhuix ohfxttxghufw ungougfjphng
Mjojspi sb,hUgguhbxoh mhw nflyck

“Pejhnphnghtchuyi t,”hpejhpunq;h“ugq,hichoejhzuc,hN’yyhpexzhcx htc
Pjscxdeu,”hpejhuqqjq,hznoehuhtxoejs’phptnyjhxahmsnqjk

Oxzusqphojghx’fyxfl,hzejghpejh p uyychpunqhbxxq-gnbeohoxhejshpxg,hugq
xaojghijaxsjhbxngbhoxhuhiuyyhm ohenthoxhijqhejspjya,hpejhajyohqjmsjppjq
uohijngbhpxhaushasxthent;hugqhzeuojrjshpejhzuphouylngbhuix o,hpejhljmo
fxtngbhiuflhnghoex beohoxhejshf syc-ejuqjqhPjscxdeukhPejhyxgbjqhoxhyxxl
uohenphmexoxbsumehugqhouylhxahentkhPjndngbhoejhanspohmsjojvo,hpejhbxo
 m,hugqhznoehejshynbeo,hsjpxy ojhpojmhzjgohaxshejshuyi tkhOejhpounsph m
oxhejshsxxthfutjhx ohxghoejhyugqngbhxahoejhbsjuohzusthtunghpounsfupjk

. pohuphpejhzuphyjurngbhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,huhsngbhzuphejusqhnghoejheuyyk

“Zexhfughoeuohij?”hpunqhQxyyck

“No’phjusychaxshtjhoxhijhajofejq,hugqhaxshugcxgjhjypjhno’phyuoj,”
xipjsrjqhLnoock

“P sjhoxhijhpxtjxgjhznoehmumjsphaxshtj,”hm ohnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofek
ZejghUgguhzuphmuppngbhoejhoxmhxahoejhpounsfupj,huhpjsrugohzuphs ggngb
 mhoxhuggx gfjhoejhrnpnoxs,hzenyjhoejhrnpnoxshentpjyahzuphpougqngb
 gqjshuhyutmkhUgguhbyugfngbhqxzghuohxgfjhsjfxbgndjqhRsxgplc,hugqhu
posugbjhajjyngbhxahmyjup sjhugqhuohoejhputjhontjhxahqsjuqhxahpxtjoengb
ponssjqhnghejshejusokhEjhzuphpougqngbhponyy,hgxohoulngbhxaahenphfxuo,
m yyngbhpxtjoengbhx ohxahenphmxfljokhUohoejhngpougohzejghpejhzuph. po
aufngbhoejhpounsp,hejhsunpjqhenphjcjp,hfu beohpnbeohxahejs,hugqhngox
oejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphaufjhoejsjhmuppjqhuhpeuqjhxahjtiussupptjgohugq
qnptuckhZnoehuhpynbeohngfynguonxghxahejshejuqhpejhmuppjq,hejusngb
ijengqhejshPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phyx qhrxnfjhfuyyngbhenthoxhfxtjh m,hugq
oejhw njo,hpxao,hugqhfxtmxpjqhrxnfjhxahRsxgplchsja pngbk

ZejghUgguhsjo sgjqhznoehoejhuyi t,hejhzuphuysjuqchbxgj,hugqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehzuphojyyngbhoejthoeuohejheuqhfuyyjqhoxhngw nsjhuix ohoej
qnggjshoejchzjsjhbnrngbhgjvohquchoxhuhfjyjisnochzexheuqh. pohussnrjqk
“Ugqhgxoengbhzx yqhngq fjhenthoxhfxtjh mkhZeuohuhw jjshajyyxzhejhnp!”
uqqjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

Lnoochiy pejqkhPejhoex beohoeuohpejhzuphoejhxgychmjspxghzexhlgjzhzechej
euqhfxtj,hugqhzechejhzx yqhgxohfxtjh mkh“Ejheuphijjghuohextj,”hpej
oex beo,h“ugqhqnqg’ohangqhtj,hugqhoex beohNhpex yqhijhejsj,hi ohejhqnq
gxohfxtjh mhijfu pjhejhoex beohnohyuoj,hugqhUggu’phejsjk”

Uyyhxahoejthyxxljqhuohjufehxoejs,hpucngbhgxoengb,hugqhijbughoxhyxxlhuo
Uggu’phuyi tk

Oejsjhzuphgxoengbhjnoejshjvfjmonxguyhxshposugbjhnghuhtug’phfuyyngbhuo
euya-mupohgngjhxghuhasnjgqhoxhngw nsjhqjounyphxahuhmsxmxpjqhqnggjs
musochugqhgxohfxtngbhng,hi ohnohpjjtjqhposugbjhoxhuyyhxahoejtkhUixrj
uyy,hnohpjjtjqhposugbjhugqhgxohsnbeohoxhUgguk


Feumojsh22

Oejhiuyyhzuphxgych. pohijbnggngbhuphLnoochugqhejshtxoejshzuyljqh mhoej
bsjuohpounsfupj,hayxxqjqhznoehynbeo,hugqhyngjqhznoehayxzjsphugqhaxxotjg
nghmxzqjshugqhsjqhfxuopkhAsxthoejhsxxtphfutjhuhfxgpougo,hpojuqche t,hup
asxthuhenrj,hugqhoejhs poyjhxahtxrjtjgo;hugqhzenyjhxghoejhyugqngb
ijozjjghosjjphoejchburjhyupohox fejphoxhoejnsheunshugqhqsjppjphijaxsj
oejhtnssxs,hoejchejusqhasxthoejhiuyysxxthoejhfusja y,hqnpongfohgxojphxa
oejhanqqyjphxahoejhxsfejposuhijbnggngbhoejhanspohzuyodkhUhynooyjhxyq
tughnghfnrnynughqsjpp,hussugbngbhenphbsuchf syphijaxsjhugxoejshtnssxs,
ugqhqnaa pngbhughxqxshxahpfjgo,hpo tiyjqhubungpohoejthxghoejhpounsp,
ugqhpoxxqhupnqj,hjrnqjgoychuqtnsngbhLnooc,hzexthejhqnqhgxohlgxzkhU
ijusqyjpphcx oe,hxgjhxahoexpjhpxfnjochcx oephzexthoejhxyqhMsngfj
Peofejsiuoplchfuyyjqh“cx gbhi flp,”hnghughjvfjjqngbychxmjghzunpofxuo,
posunbeojgngbhenphzenojhonjhuphejhzjgo,hixzjqhoxhoejt,hugqhuaojs
s ggngbhic,hfutjhiuflhoxhuplhLnoochaxshuhw uqsnyyjkhUphoejhanspo
w uqsnyyjheuqhuysjuqchijjghbnrjghoxhRsxgplc,hpejheuqhoxhmsxtnpjhoenp
cx oehoejhpjfxgqkhUghxaanfjs,hi ooxgngbhenphbyxrj,hpoxxqhupnqjhnghoej
qxxszuc,hugqhposxlngbhenpht poufej,huqtnsjqhsxpchLnoock

Uyoex behejshqsjpp,hejshfxnaa sj,hugqhuyyhoejhmsjmusuonxgphaxshoejhiuyy
euqhfxpohLnoochbsjuohosx iyjhugqhfxgpnqjsuonxg,huohoenphtxtjgohpej
zuyljqhngoxhoejhiuyysxxthnghejshjyuixsuojho yyjhqsjpphxrjshuhmnglhpynm
uphjupnychugqhpntmychuphoex behuyyhoejhsxpjoojphugqhyufj,huyyhoej
tng ojhqjounyphxahejshuoonsj,heuqhgxohfxpohejshxshejshautnychuhtxtjgo’p
uoojgonxg,huphoex behpejheuqhijjghixsghnghoeuoho yyjhugqhyufj,hznoehejs
eunshqxgjh mhenbehxghejshejuq,hugqhuhsxpjhugqhozxhyjurjphxghoejhoxmhxa
nok

Zejg,h. pohijaxsjhjgojsngbhoejhiuyysxxt,hoejhmsngfjpp,hejshtxoejs,
osnjqhoxho sghsnbeohpnqjhx ohxahoejhsniixghxahejshpupe,hLnoocheuqhqsuzg
iuflhuhynooyjkhPejhajyohoeuohjrjscoengbht pohijhsnbeohxahnopjya,hugq
bsufja y,hugqhgxoengbhfx yqhgjjqhpjoongbhposunbeok

NohzuphxgjhxahLnooc’phijpohqucpkhEjshqsjpphzuphgxoh gfxtaxsouiyj
ugczejsj;hejshyufjhijsoejhqnqhgxohqsxxmhugczejsj;hejshsxpjoojphzjsjhgxo
fs pejqhgxshoxsghxaa;hejshmnglhpynmmjsphznoehenbe,hexyyxzjq-x ohejjyp
qnqhgxohmngfe,hi ohbyuqqjgjqhejshajjo;hugqhoejhoenflhsxyyphxahauns
fenbgxghljmoh mhxghejshejuqhuphnahoejchzjsjhejshxzgheunskhUyyhoejhoesjj
i ooxgphi ooxgjqh mhznoex ohojusngbhxghoejhyxgbhbyxrjhoeuohfxrjsjqhejs
eugqhznoex ohfxgfjuyngbhnophyngjpkhOejhiyuflhrjyrjohxahejshyxfljo
gjpoyjqhznoehpmjfnuyhpxaogjpphsx gqhejshgjflkhOeuohrjyrjohzup
qjynfnx p;huohextj,hyxxlngbhuohejshgjflhnghoejhyxxlngb-byupp,hLnoocheuq
ajyohoeuohoeuohrjyrjohzuphpmjulngbkhUix ohuyyhoejhsjpohoejsjhtnbeohijhu
qx io,hi ohoejhrjyrjohzuphqjynfnx pkhLnoochptnyjqhejsjhoxx,huohoej
iuyy,hzejghpejhbyugfjqhuohnohnghoejhbyuppkhEjshiusjhpex yqjsphugqhustp
burjhLnoochuhpjgpjhxahfenyyhtusiyj,huhajjyngbhpejhmusonf yusychynljqk
Ejshjcjphpmuslyjq,hugqhejshsxpchynmphfx yqhgxohljjmhasxthptnyngbhasxt
oejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahejshxzghuoosufonrjgjppkhPejheuqhpfusfjychjgojsjq
oejhiuyysxxthugqhsjufejqhoejhoesxgbhxahyuqnjp,huyyho yyj,hsniixgp,
yufj,hugqhayxzjsp,hzunongbhoxhijhupljqhoxhqugfj—Lnoochzuphgjrjshxgjhxa
oeuohoesxgb—zejghpejhzuphupljqhaxshuhzuyod,hugqhupljqhichoejhijpo
musogjs,hoejhanspohpoushnghoejhenjsusfechxahoejhiuyysxxt,huhsjgxzgjq
qnsjfoxshxahqugfjp,huhtussnjqhtug,heugqpxtjhugqhzjyy-i nyo,hCjbxs pelu
Lxsp gplckhEjheuqhxgych. pohyjaohoejhFx gojpphIxgngu,hznoehzexthejheuq
qugfjqhoejhanspoheuyahxahoejhzuyod,hugq,hpfuggngbhenphlngbqxt—oeuohnp
oxhpuc,huhajzhfx myjphzexheuqhpousojqhqugfngb—ejhfu beohpnbeohxahLnooc,
jgojsngb,hugqhayjzh mhoxhejshznoehoeuohmjf ynus,hjupchutiyjhzenfehnp
fxgangjqhoxhqnsjfoxsphxahiuyypkhZnoex ohjrjghuplngbhejshnahpejhfusjqhox
qugfj,hejhm ohx ohenphusthoxhjgfnsfyjhejshpyjgqjshzunpokhPejhyxxljq
sx gqhaxshpxtjxgjhoxhbnrjhejshaughox,hugqhoejnshexpojpp,hptnyngbhox
ejs,hoxxlhnok

“Exzhgnfjhcx ’rjhfxtjhnghbxxqhontj,”hejhpunqhoxhejs,hjtisufngbhejs
zunpo;h“p fehuhiuqheuinohoxhijhyuojk”hIjgqngbhejshyjaoheugq,hpejhyunq
nohxghenphpex yqjs,hugqhejshynooyjhajjohnghoejnshmnglhpynmmjsphijbug
pznaoyc,hynbeoyc,hugqhsecoetnfuyychtxrngbhxrjshoejhpynmmjschayxxshng
ontjhoxhoejht pnfk

“No’phuhsjpohoxhzuyodhznoehcx ,”hejhpunqhoxhejs,huphoejchajyyhngoxhoej
anspohpyxzhpojmphxahoejhzuyodkh“No’phjvw npnoj—p fehynbeogjpp,
msjfnpnxgk”hEjhpunqhoxhejshoejhputjhoengbhejhpunqhoxhuytxpohuyyhenp
musogjsphzexthejhlgjzhzjyyk

Pejhptnyjqhuohenphmsunpj,hugqhfxgong jqhoxhyxxlhuix ohoejhsxxthxrjshenp
pex yqjskhPejhzuphgxohynljhuhbnsyhuohejshanspohiuyy,haxshzexthuyyhaufjp
nghoejhiuyysxxthtjyohngoxhxgjhrnpnxghxahaunscyugqkhUgqhpejhzuphgxohu
bnsyhzexheuqhbxgjhoejhpouyjhsx gqhxahiuyyphonyyhjrjschaufjhnghoej
iuyysxxthzuphautnynushugqhonsjpxtjkhI ohpejhzuphnghoejhtnqqyjhpoubj
ijozjjghoejpjhozx;hpejhzuphjvfnojq,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhpejheuq
p aanfnjgohpjya-mxppjppnxghoxhijhuiyjhoxhxipjsrjkhNghoejhyjaohfxsgjshxa
oejhiuyysxxthpejhpuzhoejhfsjuthxahpxfnjochbuoejsjqhoxbjoejsk
Oejsj—ngfsjqniychguljq—zuphoejhiju ochYnqn,hLxsp gplc’phznaj;hoejsjhzup
oejhyuqchxahoejhex pj;hoejsjhpexgjhoejhiuyqhejuqhxahLsnrng,huyzucphox
ijhax gqhzejsjhoejhijpohmjxmyjhzjsjkhNghoeuohqnsjfonxghbudjqhoejhcx gb
tjg,hgxohrjgo sngbhoxhummsxufekhOejsj,hoxx,hpejhqjpfsnjqhPonru,hugq
oejsjhpejhpuzhoejhjvw npnojhanb sjhugqhejuqhxahUgguhnghuhiyuflhrjyrjo
bxzgkhUgqh_ej_hzuphoejsjkhLnoocheuqhgxohpjjghenthpngfjhoejhjrjgngbhpej
sja pjqhYjrngkhZnoehejshyxgb-pnbeojqhjcjp,hpejhlgjzhenthuohxgfj,hugq
zuphjrjghuzusjhoeuohejhzuphyxxlngbhuohejsk

“Ugxoejsho sg,hje?hCx ’sjhgxohonsjq?”hpunqhLxsp gplc,huhynooyjhx ohxa
isjuoek

“Gx,hoeuglhcx !”

“ZejsjhpeuyyhNhouljhcx ?”

“TuqutjhLusjgngu’phejsj,hNhoenglhkkkhouljhtjhoxhejsk”

“Zejsjrjshcx hfxttugqk”

UgqhLxsp gplchijbughzuyodngbhznoehtjup sjqhpojmphposunbeohoxzusqphoej
bsx mhnghoejhyjaohfxsgjs,hfxgong uyychpucngb,h“Musqxg,htjpqutjp,
musqxg,hmusqxg,htjpqutjp”;hugqhpojjsngbhenphfx spjhoesx behoejhpjuhxa
yufj,ho yyj,hugqhsniixg,hugqhgxohqnpussugbngbhuhajuoejs,hejho sgjqhenp
musogjshpeusmychsx gq,hpxhoeuohejshpynthuglyjp,hnghynbeohosugpmusjgo
poxflngbp,hzjsjhjvmxpjqhoxhrnjz,hugqhejshosunghayxuojqhx ohnghaughpeumj
ugqhfxrjsjqhLsnrng’phlgjjpkhLxsp gplchixzjq,hpjohposunbeohenphxmjg
pensohasxgo,hugqhburjhejshenphusthoxhfxgq fohejshoxhUgguhUsluqcjrguk
Lnooc,hay pejq,hoxxlhejshosunghasxthLsnrng’phlgjjp,hugq,huhynooyj
bnqqc,hyxxljqhsx gq,hpjjlngbhUggukhUgguhzuphgxohnghynyuf,huphLnoocheuq
pxh sbjgoychznpejq,hi ohnghuhiyufl,hyxz-f o,hrjyrjohbxzg,hpexzngbhejs
a yyhoesxuohugqhpex yqjsp,hoeuohyxxljqhuphoex behfusrjqhnghxyqhnrxsc,
ugqhejshsx gqjqhustp,hznoehongc,hpyjgqjshzsnpopkhOejhzexyjhbxzghzup
osnttjqhznoehRjgjonughb nm sjkhXghejshejuq,hutxgbhejshiyuflheuns—ejs
xzg,hznoehgxhauypjhuqqnonxgp—zuphuhynooyjhzsjuoehxahmugpnjp,hugqhu
ix w johxahoejhputjhnghoejhiyuflhsniixghxahejshpupehutxgbhzenojhyufjk
Ejshfxnaa sjhzuphgxohposnlngbkhUyyhoeuohzuphgxonfjuiyjhzuphoejhynooyj
znya yhojgqsnyphxahejshf sycheunshoeuohzx yqhuyzucphisjulhasjjhuix o
ejshgjflhugqhojtmyjpkhSx gqhejshzjyy-f o,hposxgbhgjflhzuphuhoesjuqhxa
mjusypk

LnoocheuqhijjghpjjngbhUgguhjrjschquc;hpejhuqxsjqhejs,hugqheuqhmnfo sjq
ejshngrusnuiychnghynyufkhI ohgxzhpjjngbhejshnghiyufl,hpejhajyohoeuohpej
euqhgxoha yychpjjghejshfeustkhPejhpuzhejshgxzhuphpxtjxgjhw nojhgjzhugq
p smsnpngbhoxhejskhGxzhpejh gqjspoxxqhoeuohUgguhfx yqhgxoheurjhijjghng
ynyuf,hugqhoeuohejshfeusthzuph. pohoeuohpejhuyzucphpoxxqhx ohubungpo
ejshuoonsj,hoeuohejshqsjpphfx yqhgjrjshijhgxonfjuiyjhxghejskhUgqhejs
iyuflhqsjpp,hznoehnophp tmo x phyufj,hzuphgxohgxonfjuiyjhxghejs;hnohzup
xgychoejhasutj,hugqhuyyhoeuohzuphpjjghzuphpej—pntmyj,hguo suy,hjyjbugo,
ugqhuohoejhputjhontjhbuchugqhjubjsk

Pejhzuphpougqngbhexyqngbhejspjya,huphuyzucp,hrjschjsjfo,hugqhzejghLnooc
qsjzhgjushoejhbsx mhpejhzuphpmjulngbhoxhoejhtupojshxahoejhex pj,hejs
ejuqhpynbeoycho sgjqhoxzusqphentk

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohoesxzhpoxgjp,”hpejhzuphpucngb,hnghugpzjshoxhpxtjoengb,
“oex behNhfug’oh gqjspougqhno,”hpejhzjgohxg,hpes bbngbhejshpex yqjsp,
ugqhpejho sgjqhuohxgfjhznoehuhpxaohptnyjhxahmsxojfonxghoxzusqphLnoock
Znoehuhaycngb,hajtngngjhbyugfjhpejhpfuggjqhejshuoonsj,hugqhtuqjhu
txrjtjgohxahejshejuq,heusqychmjsfjmoniyj,hi oh gqjspoxxqhichLnooc,
pnbgnacngbhummsxruyhxahejshqsjpphugqhejshyxxlpkh“Cx hfutjhngoxhoejhsxxt
qugfngb,”hpejhuqqjqk

“Oenphnphxgjhxahtchtxpohaunoea yhp mmxsojsp,”hpunqhLxsp gplc,hixzngbhox
UgguhUsluqcjrgu,hzexthejheuqhgxohcjohpjjgkh“Oejhmsngfjpphejymphoxhtulj
iuyypheummchugqhp ffjppa ykhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,huhzuyod?”hejhpunq,hijgqngb
qxzghoxhejsk

“Zec,heurjhcx htjo?”hngw nsjqhoejnshexpok

“Nphoejsjhugcxgjhzjheurjhgxohtjo?hTchznajhugqhNhusjhynljhzenoj
zxyrjp—jrjscxgjhlgxzph p,”hugpzjsjqhLxsp gplckh“Uhzuyod,hUggu
Usluqcjrgu?”

“Nhqxg’ohqugfjhzejghno’phmxppniyjhgxohoxhqugfj,”hpejhpunqk

“I ohoxgnbeohno’phntmxppniyj,”hugpzjsjqhLxsp gplck

UohoeuohngpougohRsxgplchfutjh mk

“Zjyy,hpngfjhno’phntmxppniyjhoxgnbeo,hyjoh phpouso,”hpejhpunq,hgxo
gxonfngbhRsxgplc’phixz,hugqhpejheuponychm ohejsheugqhxghLxsp gplc’p
pex yqjsk

“Zeuohnphpejhrjvjqhznoehenthuix o?”hoex beohLnooc,hqnpfjsgngbhoeuohUggu
euqhngojgonxguyychgxohsjpmxgqjqhoxhRsxgplc’phixzkhRsxgplchzjgoh mhox
Lnoochsjtngqngbhejshxahoejhanspohw uqsnyyj,hugqhjvmsjppngbhenphsjbsjo
oeuohejheuqhgxohpjjghejshuyyhoenphontjkhLnoochbudjqhnghuqtnsuonxghuo
Ugguhzuyodngb,hugqhynpojgjqhoxhentkhPejhjvmjfojqhenthoxhuplhejshaxshu
zuyod,hi ohejhqnqhgxo,hugqhpejhbyugfjqhzxgqjsngbychuohentkhEjhay pejq
pynbeoyc,hugqhe ssnjqychupljqhejshoxhzuyod,hi ohejheuqhxgych. pohm o
enphusthsx gqhejshzunpohugqhouljghoejhanspohpojmhzejghoejht pnf
p qqjgychpoxmmjqkhLnoochyxxljqhngoxhenphaufj,hzenfehzuphpxhfyxpjhoxhejs
xzg,hugqhyxgbhuaojszusqp—axshpjrjsuyhcjusphuaojs—oeuohyxxl,ha yyhxa
yxrj,hoxhzenfehejhtuqjhgxhsjpmxgpj,hf ohejshoxhoejhejusohznoehughubxgc
xahpeutjk

“_Musqxg!hmusqxg!_hZuyod!hzuyod!”hpex ojqhLxsp gplchasxthoejhxoejshpnqj
xahoejhsxxt,hugqhpjndngbhoejhanspohcx gbhyuqchejhfutjhufsxpphejhijbug
qugfngbhentpjyak


Feumojsh23

RsxgplchugqhLnoochzuyodjqhpjrjsuyhontjphsx gqhoejhsxxtkhUaojshoejhanspo
zuyodhLnoochzjgohoxhejshtxoejs,hugqhpejheuqheusqychontjhoxhpuchuhajz
zxsqphoxhFx gojpphGxsqpoxghzejghRsxgplchfutjh mhubunghaxshoejhanspo
w uqsnyyjkhQ sngbhoejhw uqsnyyjhgxoengbhxahugchpnbgnanfugfjhzuphpunq:
oejsjhzuphqnp.xngojqhouylhijozjjghoejthxahoejhLxsp gplcp,he piugqhugq
znaj,hzexthejhqjpfsnijqhrjschut pngbyc,huphqjynbeoa yhfenyqsjghuo
axsoc,hugqhxahoejha o sjhoxzghoejuojs;hugqhxgychxgfjhoejhfxgrjspuonxg
ox fejqhejshoxhoejhw nfl,hzejghejhupljqhejshuix ohYjrng,hzejoejshejhzup
ejsj,hugqhuqqjqhoeuohejhynljqhenthpxht fekhI ohLnoochqnqhgxohjvmjfo
t fehasxthoejhw uqsnyyjkhPejhyxxljqhaxszusqhznoehuhoesnyyhuohejshejuso
oxhoejhtud slukhPejhaugfnjqhoeuohnghoejhtud sluhjrjscoengbht pohij
qjfnqjqkhOejhaufohoeuohejhqnqhgxohq sngbhoejhw uqsnyyjhuplhejshaxshoej
tud sluhqnqhgxohosx iyjhejskhPejhajyohp sjhpejhzx yqhqugfjhoejhtud slu
znoehenthuphpejheuqhqxgjhuohaxstjshiuyyp,hugqhsja pjqhanrjhcx gbhtjg,
pucngbhpejhzuphjgbubjqhaxshoejhtud slukhOejhzexyjhiuyyh mhoxhoejhyupo
w uqsnyyjhzuphaxshLnoochughjgfeugojqhrnpnxghxahqjynbeoa yhfxyxsp,
px gqp,hugqhtxonxgpkhPejhxgychpuohqxzghzejghpejhajyohoxxhonsjqhugq
ijbbjqhaxshuhsjpokhI ohuphpejhzuphqugfngbhoejhyupohw uqsnyyjhznoehxgj
xahoejhonsjpxtjhcx gbhtjghzexthpejhfx yqhgxohsja pj,hpejhfeugfjqhoxhij
_rnp-à-rnp_hznoehRsxgplchugqhUggukhPejheuqhgxohijjghgjushUgguhubung
pngfjhoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhjrjgngb,hugqhgxzhubunghpejhpuzhejshp qqjgyc
w nojhgjzhugqhp smsnpngbkhPejhpuzhnghejshoejhpnbgphxahoeuohjvfnojtjgo
xahp ffjpphpejhlgjzhpxhzjyyhnghejspjya;hpejhpuzhoeuohpejhzup
ngoxvnfuojqhznoehoejhqjynbeojqhuqtnsuonxghpejhzuphjvfnongbkhPejhlgjz
oeuohajjyngbhugqhlgjzhnophpnbgp,hugqhpuzhoejthnghUggu;hpuzhoej
w nrjsngb,hayupengbhynbeohnghejshjcjp,hugqhoejhptnyjhxaheummngjpphugq
jvfnojtjgoh gfxgpfnx pychmyucngbhxghejshynmp,hugqhoejhqjynijsuojhbsufj,
msjfnpnxg,hugqhynbeogjpphxahejshtxrjtjgopk

“Zex?”hpejhupljqhejspjyakh“Uyyhxshxgj?”hUgqhgxohuppnpongbhoejheusuppjq
cx gbhtughpejhzuphqugfngbhznoehnghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hoejhoesjuqhxahzenfe
ejheuqhyxpohugqhfx yqhgxohmnflh mhubung,hpejhxijcjqhznoehjvojsguy
ynrjyngjpphoejhmjsjtmoxschpex ophxahLxsp gplchpousongbhoejthuyyhngox
oejh_bsugqhsxgq_,hugqhoejghngoxhoejh_feuîgj_,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhpej
ljmohzuofehznoehuhbsxzngbhmugbhuohejshejusokh“Gx,hno’phgxohoej
uqtnsuonxghxahoejhfsxzqheuphngoxvnfuojqhejs,hi ohoejhuqxsuonxghxahxgjk
Ugqhoeuohxgj?hfughnohijhej?”hJrjschontjhejhpmxljhoxhUgguhoejh.xcx p
ynbeohayupejqhngoxhejshjcjp,hugqhoejhptnyjhxaheummngjpphf srjqhejshsjq
ynmpkhpejhpjjtjqhoxhtuljhughjaaxsohoxhfxgosxyhejspjya,hoxhoschgxohox
pexzhoejpjhpnbgphxahqjynbeo,hi ohoejchfutjhx ohxghejshaufjhxa
oejtpjyrjpkh“I ohzeuohxahent?”hLnoochyxxljqhuohenthugqhzuphanyyjqhznoe
ojssxskhZeuohzuphmnfo sjqhpxhfyjusychoxhLnoochnghoejhtnssxshxahUggu’p
aufjhpejhpuzhnghentkhZeuoheuqhijfxtjhxahenphuyzucphpjya-mxppjppjq
sjpxy ojhtuggjs,hugqhoejhfusjyjppychpjsjgjhjvmsjppnxghxahenphaufj?hGxz
jrjschontjhejho sgjqhoxhejs,hejhijgohenphejuq,huphoex behejhzx yqheurj
auyyjghuohejshajjo,hugqhnghenphjcjphoejsjhzuphgxoengbhi ohe tiyj
p itnppnxghugqhqsjuqkh“Nhzx yqhgxohxaajgqhcx ,”henphjcjphpjjtjqhjrjsc
ontjhoxhijhpucngb,h“i ohNhzugohoxhpurjhtcpjya,hugqhNhqxg’ohlgxzhexzk”
Xghenphaufjhzuphuhyxxlhp fehuphLnoocheuqhgjrjshpjjghijaxsjk

Oejchzjsjhpmjulngbhxahfxttxghufw ungougfjp,hljjmngbh mhoejhtxpohosnrnuy
fxgrjspuonxg,hi ohoxhLnoochnohpjjtjqhoeuohjrjschzxsqhoejchpunqhzup
qjojstngngbhoejnshauojhugqhejspkhUgqhposugbjhnohzuphoeuohoejchzjsj
ufo uyychouylngbhxahexzhuip sqhNrughNrugxrnofehzuphznoehenphAsjgfe,hugq
exzhoejhJyjoplchbnsyhtnbeoheurjhtuqjhuhijoojshtuofe,hcjohoejpjhzxsqp
euqhuyyhoejhzenyjhfxgpjw jgfjhaxshoejt,hugqhoejchzjsjhajjyngbh. pohup
LnoochqnqkhOejhzexyjhiuyy,hoejhzexyjhzxsyq,hjrjscoengbhpjjtjqhyxpohng
axbhnghLnooc’phpx ykhGxoengbhi ohoejhpojsghqnpfnmyngjhxahejs
isngbngb- mhp mmxsojqhejshugqhaxsfjqhejshoxhqxhzeuohzuphjvmjfojqhxa
ejs,hoeuohnp,hoxhqugfj,hoxhugpzjshw jponxgp,hoxhouyl,hjrjghoxhptnyjk
I ohijaxsjhoejhtud slu,hzejghoejchzjsjhijbnggngbhoxhsjussugbjhoej
feunsphugqhuhajzhfx myjphtxrjqhx ohxahoejhptuyyjshsxxtphngoxhoejhinb
sxxt,huhtxtjgohxahqjpmunshugqhexssxshfutjhaxshLnoockhPejheuqhsja pjq
anrjhmusogjsp,hugqhgxzhpejhzuphgxohqugfngbhoejhtud slukhPejheuqhgxo
jrjghuhexmjhxahijngbhupljqhaxshno,hijfu pjhpejhzuphpxhp ffjppa yhng
pxfnjochoeuohoejhnqjuhzx yqhgjrjshxff shoxhugcxgjhoeuohpejheuqhsjtungjq
qnpjgbubjqhonyyhgxzkhPejhzx yqheurjhoxhojyyhejshtxoejshpejhajyohnyyhugq
bxhextj,hi ohpejheuqhgxohoejhposjgboehoxhqxhoenpkhPejhajyohfs pejqkhPej
zjgohoxhoejha soejpohjgqhxahoejhynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxthugqhpuglhngoxhuhyxz
feunskhEjshynbeo,hosugpmusjgohplnsophsxpjhynljhuhfyx qhuix ohejs
pyjgqjshzunpo;hxgjhiusj,hoeng,hpxao,hbnsynpehust,heugbngbhynpoyjppyc,
zuphyxpohnghoejhaxyqphxahejshmnglho gnf;hnghoejhxoejshpejhejyqhejshaug,
ugqhznoehsumnq,hpexsohposxljphauggjqhejshi sgngbhaufjkhI ohzenyjhpej
yxxljqhynljhuhi oojsayc,hfyngbngbhoxhuhiyuqjhxahbsupp,hugqh. pohuix o
oxhxmjghnophsungixzhzngbphaxshasjpehaynbeo,hejshejusohufejqhznoehu
exssniyjhqjpmunsk

“I ohmjseumphNhuthzsxgb,hmjseumphnohzuphgxohpx?”hUgqhubunghpejhsjfuyyjq
uyyhpejheuqhpjjgk

“Lnooc,hzeuohnphno?”hpunqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxg,hpojmmngbhgxnpjyjppychxrjs
oejhfusmjohoxzusqphejskh“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhnok”

Lnooc’phyxzjshynmhijbughoxhw nrjs;hpejhbxoh mhw nflyck

“Lnooc,hcx ’sjhgxohqugfngbhoejhtud slu?”

“Gx,hgx,”hpunqhLnoochnghuhrxnfjhpeulngbhznoehojuspk

“Ejhupljqhejshaxshoejhtud sluhijaxsjhtj,”hpunqhFx gojpphGxsqpoxg,
lgxzngbhLnoochzx yqh gqjspougqhzexhzjsjh“ej”hugqh“ejsk”h“Pejhpunq:
‘Zec,husjg’ohcx hbxngbhoxhqugfjhnohznoehMsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucu?’”

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohfusj!”hugpzjsjqhLnoock

Gxhxgjhi ohpejhejspjyah gqjspoxxqhejshmxpnonxg;hgxhxgjhlgjzhoeuohpej
euqh. pohsja pjqhoejhtughzexthmjseumphpejhyxrjq,hugqhsja pjqhent
ijfu pjhpejheuqhm ohejshaunoehnghugxoejsk

Fx gojpphGxsqpoxghax gqhLxsp gplc,hznoehzexthpejhzuphoxhqugfjhoej
tud slu,hugqhoxyqhenthoxhuplhLnoock

Lnoochqugfjqhnghoejhanspohfx myj,hugqhy flnychaxshejshpejheuqhgxohox
ouyl,hijfu pjhLxsp gplchzuphuyyhoejhontjhs ggngbhuix ohqnsjfongbhoej
anb sjkhRsxgplchugqhUgguhpuohuytxpohxmmxpnojhejskhPejhpuzhoejthznoehejs
yxgb-pnbeojqhjcjp,hugqhpuzhoejt,hoxx,hfyxpjhic,hzejghoejchtjohnghoej
anb sjp,hugqhoejhtxsjhpejhpuzhxahoejthoejhtxsjhfxgrngfjqhzuphpejhoeuo
ejsh geummngjpphzuphfxtmyjojkhPejhpuzhoeuohoejchajyohoejtpjyrjphuyxgj
nghoeuohfsxzqjqhsxxtkhUgqhxghRsxgplc’phaufj,huyzucphpxhansthugq
ngqjmjgqjgo,hpejhpuzhoeuohyxxlhoeuoheuqhpos flhejs,hxahijznyqjstjgohugq
e tiyjhp itnppnrjgjpp,hynljhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahughngojyynbjgohqxbhzejg
noheuphqxgjhzsxgbk

Ugguhptnyjq,hugqhejshptnyjhzuphsjayjfojqhichentkhPejhbsjzhoex beoa y,
ugqhejhijfutjhpjsnx pkhPxtjhp mjsguo suyhaxsfjhqsjzhLnooc’phjcjphox
Uggu’phaufjkhPejhzuphaupfnguongbhnghejshpntmyjhiyuflhqsjpp,haupfnguongb
zjsjhejshsx gqhustphznoehoejnshisufjyjop,haupfnguongbhzuphejshansthgjfl
znoehnophoesjuqhxahmjusyp,haupfnguongbhoejhposucngbhf syphxahejshyxxpj
euns,haupfnguongbhoejhbsufja y,hynbeohtxrjtjgophxahejshynooyjhajjohugq
eugqp,haupfnguongbhzuphoeuohyxrjychaufjhnghnophjubjsgjpp,hi ohoejsjhzup
pxtjoengbhojssniyjhugqhfs jyhnghejshaupfnguonxgk

Lnoochuqtnsjqhejshtxsjhoeughjrjs,hugqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhuf ojhzuphejs
p aajsngbkhLnoochajyohxrjszejytjq,hugqhejshaufjhpexzjqhnokhZejghRsxgplc
puzhejs,hfxtngbhufsxpphejshnghoejhtud slu,hejhqnqhgxohuohxgfjhsjfxbgndj
ejs,hpejhzuphpxhfeugbjqk

“Qjynbeoa yhiuyy!”hejhpunqhoxhejs,haxshoejhpuljhxahpucngbhpxtjoengbk

“Cjp,”hpejhugpzjsjqk

Nghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhtud slu,hsjmjuongbhuhfxtmynfuojqhanb sj,hgjzyc
ngrjgojqhichLxsp gplc,hUgguhfutjhaxszusqhngoxhoejhfjgojshxahoejhfnsfyj,
fexpjhozxhbjgoyjtjg,hugqhp ttxgjqhuhyuqchugqhLnoockhLnoochbudjqhuohejs
nghqnptuchuphpejhzjgoh mkhUgguhyxxljqhuohejshznoehqsxxmngbhjcjynqp,hugq
ptnyjq,hmsjppngbhejsheugqkhI o,hgxonfngbhoeuohLnoochxgychsjpmxgqjqhox
ejshptnyjhichuhyxxlhxahqjpmunshugqhutudjtjgo,hpejho sgjqhuzuchasxthejs,
ugqhijbughbunychouylngbhoxhoejhxoejshyuqck

“Cjp,hoejsjhnphpxtjoengbh gfuggc,hqjrnynpehugqhaupfnguongbhnghejs,”
Lnoochpunqhoxhejspjyak

Ugguhqnqhgxohtjughoxhpouchoxhp mmjs,hi ohoejhtupojshxahoejhex pjhijbug
oxhmsjpphejshoxhqxhpxk

“Gxgpjgpj,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hpunqhLxsp gplc,hqsuzngbhejshiusjhusth gqjs
oejhpyjjrjhxahenphqsjpphfxuo,h“N’rjhp fehughnqjuhaxshuh_fxonyynxg!h g
in.x !_”

Ugqhejhtxrjqhbsuq uyychxg,hoscngbhoxhqsuzhejshuyxgbhznoehentkhOejns
expohptnyjqhummsxrngbyck

“Gx,hNhuthgxohbxngbhoxhpouc,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,hptnyngb,hi ohnghpmnojhxa
ejshptnyj,hixoehLxsp gplchugqhoejhtupojshxahoejhex pjhpuzhasxthejs
sjpxy ojhoxgjhoeuohpejhzx yqhgxohpouck

“Gx;hzec,huphnohnp,hNheurjhqugfjqhtxsjhuohcx shiuyyhnghTxpfxzhoeughN
eurjhuyyhoejhzngojshnghMjojspi sb,”hpunqhUggu,hyxxlngbhsx gqhuo
Rsxgplc,hzexhpoxxqhgjushejskh“Nht pohsjpohuhynooyjhijaxsjhtch.x sgjck”

“Usjhcx hfjsoungychbxngbhoxtxssxzhoejg?”hupljqhRsxgplck

“Cjp,hNhp mmxpjhpx,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,huphnohzjsjhzxgqjsngbhuohoej
ixyqgjpphxahenphw jponxg;hi ohoejhnssjmsjppniyj,hw nrjsngbhisnyynugfj
xahejshjcjphugqhejshptnyjhpjohenthxghansjhuphpejhpunqhnok

UgguhUsluqcjrguhqnqhgxohpouchoxhp mmjs,hi ohzjgohextjk


Feumojsh24

“Cjp,hoejsjhnphpxtjoengbhnghtjheuoja y,hsjm ypnrj,”hoex beohYjrng,hup
ejhfutjhuzuchasxthoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’,hugqhzuyljqhnghoejhqnsjfonxghxa
enphisxoejs’phyxqbngbpkh“UgqhNhqxg’ohbjohxghznoehxoejshmjxmyjkhMsnqj,
oejchpuckhGx,hNheurjhgxhmsnqjkhNahNheuqhugchmsnqj,hNhpex yqhgxoheurj
m ohtcpjyahnghp fehuhmxpnonxgk”hUgqhejhmnfo sjqhoxhentpjyahRsxgplc,
eummc,hbxxq-guo sjq,hfyjrjs,hugqhpjya-mxppjppjq,hfjsoungychgjrjshmyufjq
nghoejhuza yhmxpnonxghnghzenfehejheuqhijjghoeuohjrjgngbkh“Cjp,hpejhzup
ix gqhoxhfexxpjhentkhPxhnoheuqhoxhij,hugqhNhfuggxohfxtmyunghxahugcxgj
xshugcoengbkhNhuthtcpjyahoxhiyutjkhZeuohsnbeoheuqhNhoxhntubngjhpej
zx yqhfusjhoxh.xnghejshynajhoxhtngj?hZexhuthNhugqhzeuohuthN?hUhgxixqc,
gxohzugojqhichugcxgj,hgxshxah pjhoxhugcixqck”hUgqhejhsjfuyyjqhenp
isxoejshGnlxyuc,hugqhqzjyohznoehmyjup sjhxghoejhoex beohxahentkh“Npg’o
ejhsnbeohoeuohjrjscoengbhnghoejhzxsyqhnphiupjhugqhyxuoepxtj?hUgqhusjhzj
aunshnghx sh. qbtjgohxahisxoejshGnlxyuc?hXahfx spj,hasxthoejhmxngohxa
rnjzhxahMsxlxac,hpjjngbhenthnghuhoxsghfyxulhugqhonmpc,hej’phu
qjpmnfuiyjhmjspxgkhI ohNhlgxzhenthqnaajsjgoyckhNhlgxzhenphpx y,hugq
lgxzhoeuohzjhusjhynljhentkhUgqhN,hngpojuqhxahbxngbhoxhpjjlhenthx o,
zjgohx ohoxhqnggjs,hugqhfutjhejsjk”hYjrnghzuyljqh mhoxhuhyutmmxpo,hsjuq
enphisxoejs’phuqqsjpp,hzenfehzuphnghenphmxfljoixxl,hugqhfuyyjqhu
pyjqbjkhUyyhoejhyxgbhzuchoxhenphisxoejs’p,hYjrnghrnrnqychsjfuyyjqhuyy
oejhaufophautnynushoxhenthxahenphisxoejshGnlxyuc’phynajkhEjhsjtjtijsjq
exzhenphisxoejs,hzenyjhuohoejh gnrjspnoc,hugqhaxshuhcjushuaojszusqp,
euq,hnghpmnojhxahoejh.jjsphxahenphfxtmugnxgp,hynrjqhynljhuhtxgl,
posnfoychxipjsrngbhuyyhsjynbnx phsnojp,hpjsrnfjp,hugqhaupop,hugq
urxnqngbhjrjschpxsohxahmyjup sj,hjpmjfnuyychzxtjgkhUgqhuaojszusqp,hexz
ejheuqhuyyhuohxgfjhisxljghx o:hejheuqhuppxfnuojqhznoehoejhtxpohexssniyj
mjxmyj,hugqhs pejqhngoxhoejhtxpohpjgpjyjpphqjiu fejsckhEjhsjtjtijsjq
yuojshoejhpfugquyhxrjshuhixc,hzexthejheuqhouljghasxthoejhfx goschox
isngbh m,hugq,hnghuhanohxahsubj,heuqhpxhrnxyjgoychijuojghoeuo
msxfjjqngbphzjsjhisx beohubungpohenthaxsh gyuza yychzx gqngbkhOejghej
sjfuyyjqhoejhpfugquyhznoehuhpeusmjs,hoxhzexthejheuqhyxpohtxgjc,hugq
bnrjghuhmsxtnppxschgxoj,hugqhubungpohzexthejheuqhentpjyahyxqbjqhu
fxtmyungo,huppjsongbhoeuohejheuqhfejuojqhentkh(Oenphzuphoejhtxgjc
PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhmunqk)hOejghejhsjtjtijsjqhexzhejheuqhpmjgohu
gnbeohnghoejhyxfl mhaxshqnpxsqjsychfxgq fohnghoejhposjjokhEjhsjtjtijsjq
oejhpeutja yhmsxfjjqngbphejheuqhosnjqhoxhbjoh mhubungpohenphisxoejs
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,huff pngbhenthxahgxoheurngbhmunqhenthenphpeusjhxahenp
txoejs’phaxso gj,hugqhoejhyupohpfugquy,hzejghejheuqhbxgjhoxhuhzjpojsg
msxrngfjhnghughxaanfnuyhfumufnoc,hugqhoejsjheuqhbxohngoxhosx iyjhaxs
uppu yongbhuhrnyyubjhjyqjskkkkhNohzuphuyyhexssniychqnpb pongb,hcjohox
Yjrnghnohummjusjqhgxohuohuyyhnghoejhputjhqnpb pongbhynbeohuphno
ngjrnouiychzx yqhoxhoexpjhzexhqnqhgxohlgxzhGnlxyuc,hqnqhgxohlgxzhuyy
enphpoxsc,hqnqhgxohlgxzhenphejusok

YjrnghsjtjtijsjqhoeuohzejghGnlxyucheuqhijjghnghoejhqjrx ohpoubj,hoej
mjsnxqhxahaupophugqhtxglphugqhfe sfehpjsrnfjp,hzejghejhzuphpjjlngbhng
sjynbnxghuhp mmxsohugqhuhf sihaxshenphmuppnxguojhojtmjsutjgo,hjrjscxgj,
aushasxthjgfx subngbhent,heuqh.jjsjqhuohent,hugqhej,hoxx,hznoehoej
xoejspkhOejcheuqhojupjqhent,hfuyyjqhenthGxue,hugqhtxgl;hugq,hzejghej
euqhisxljghx o,hgxhxgjheuqhejymjqhent,hi ohjrjscxgjheuqho sgjqhuzuc
asxthenthznoehexssxshugqhqnpb pok

Yjrnghajyohoeuo,hnghpmnojhxahuyyhoejh byngjpphxahenphynaj,henphisxoejs
Gnlxyuc,hnghenphpx y,hnghoejhrjschqjmoephxahenphpx y,hzuphgxhtxsjhng
oejhzsxgbhoeughoejhmjxmyjhzexhqjpmnpjqhentkhEjhzuphgxohoxhiyutjhaxs
eurngbhijjghixsghznoehenph gisnqyjqhojtmjsutjgohugqhenphpxtjexzhyntnojq
ngojyynbjgfjkhI ohejheuqhuyzucphzugojqhoxhijhbxxqkh“Nhznyyhojyyhent
jrjscoengb,hznoex ohsjpjsrj,hugqhNhznyyhtuljhenthpmjulhznoex ohsjpjsrj,
oxx,hugqhN’yyhpexzhenthoeuohNhyxrjhent,hugqhpxh gqjspougqhent,”hYjrng
sjpxyrjqhoxhentpjya,hup,hoxzusqphjyjrjghx’fyxfl,hejhsjufejqhoejhexojy
xahzenfehejheuqhoejhuqqsjppk

“Uohoejhoxm,h12hugqh13,”hoejhmxsojshugpzjsjqhYjrng’phngw nsck

“Uohextj?”

“P sjhoxhijhuohextjk”

OejhqxxshxahGxkh12hzupheuyahxmjg,hugqhoejsjhfutjhx ohngoxhoejhposjulhxa
ynbeohoenflha tjphxahfejum,hmxxshoxiuffx,hugqhoejhpx gqhxahuhrxnfj,
 glgxzghoxhYjrng;hi ohejhlgjzhuohxgfjhoeuohenphisxoejshzuphoejsj;hej
ejusqhenphfx bek

Uphejhzjgohnghoejhqxxs,hoejh glgxzghrxnfjhzuphpucngb:

“Nohuyyhqjmjgqphznoehexzht feh. qbtjgohugqhlgxzyjqbjhoejhoengb’phqxgjk”

LxgpougonghYjrnghyxxljqhnghuohoejhqxxs,hugqhpuzhoeuohoejhpmjuljshzuphu
cx gbhtughznoehughnttjgpjhpexflhxaheuns,hzjusngbhuhS ppnugh.jslng,hugq
oeuohuhmxfltusljqhzxtughnghuhzxxyjghbxzg,hznoex ohfxyyushxshf aap,hzup
pnoongbhxghoejhpxaukhEnphisxoejshzuphgxohoxhijhpjjgkhLxgpougonghajyohu
peusmhmugbhuohenphejusohuohoejhoex beohxahoejhposugbjhfxtmugchnghzenfe
enphisxoejshpmjgohenphynajkhGxhxgjheuqhejusqhent,hugqhLxgpougong,
oulngbhxaahenphbuyxpejp,hynpojgjqhoxhzeuohoejhbjgoyjtughnghoejh.jslng
zuphpucngbkhEjhzuphpmjulngbhxahpxtjhjgojsmsnpjk

“Zjyy,hoejhqjrnyhayuchoejt,hoejhmsnrnyjbjqhfyuppjp,”henphisxoejs’p
rxnfjhsjpmxgqjq,hznoehuhfx bekh“Tupeu!hbjoh phpxtjhp mmjshugqhpxtjhzngj
nahoejsj’phugchyjao;hxshjypjhbxhugqhbjohpxtjk”

Oejhzxtughsxpj,hfutjhx ohasxthijengqhoejhpfsjjg,hugqhpuzhLxgpougongk

“Oejsj’phpxtjhbjgoyjtug,hGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe,”hpejhpunqk

“Zexthqxhcx hzugo?”hpunqhoejhrxnfjhxahGnlxyuchYjrng,hugbsnyck

“No’phN,”hugpzjsjqhLxgpougonghYjrng,hfxtngbhaxszusqhngoxhoejhynbeok

“Zex’ph_N_?”hGnlxyuc’phrxnfjhpunqhubung,hponyyhtxsjhugbsnyckhEjhfx yq
ijhejusqhbjoongbh mhe ssnjqyc,hpo tiyngbhubungpohpxtjoengb,hugqhYjrng
puz,haufngbhenthnghoejhqxxszuc,hoejhinb,hpfusjqhjcjp,hugqhoejhe bj,
oeng,hpoxxmngbhanb sjhxahenphisxoejs,hpxhautnynus,hugqhcjohupoxgnpengb
nghnophzjnsqgjpphugqhpnflyngjppk

Ejhzuphjrjghoenggjshoeughoesjjhcjusphijaxsj,hzejghLxgpougonghYjrngheuq
pjjghenthyupokhEjhzuphzjusngbhuhpexsohfxuo,hugqhenpheugqphugqhinbhixgjp
pjjtjqhe bjshoeughjrjskhEnpheunsheuqhbsxzghoenggjs,hoejhputjhposunbeo
t poufejphenqhenphynmp,hoejhputjhjcjphbudjqhposugbjychugqhguïrjychuo
enphrnpnoxsk

“Ue,hLxpocu!”hejhjvfyuntjqhp qqjgyc,hsjfxbgndngbhenphisxoejs,hugqhenp
jcjphynoh mhznoeh.xckhI ohoejhputjhpjfxgqhejhyxxljqhsx gqhuohoejhcx gb
tug,hugqhburjhoejhgjsrx ph.jslhxahenphejuqhugqhgjflhoeuohLxgpougong
lgjzhpxhzjyy,huphnahenphgjfliugqhe sohent;hugqhuhw nojhqnaajsjgo
jvmsjppnxg,hznyq,hp aajsngb,hugqhfs jy,hsjpojqhxghenphjtufnuojqhaufjk

“Nhzsxojhoxhcx hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehixoehoeuohNhqxg’ohlgxzhcx hugq
qxg’ohzugohoxhlgxzhcx khZeuohnphnohcx hzugo?”

EjhzuphgxohuohuyyhoejhputjhuphLxgpougongheuqhijjghaugfcngbhentkhOej
zxspohugqhtxpohonsjpxtjhmusohxahenphfeusufojs,hzeuohtuqjhuyyhsjyuonxgp
znoehenthpxhqnaanf yo,heuqhijjghaxsbxoojghichLxgpougonghYjrnghzejghej
oex beohxahent,hugqhgxz,hzejghejhpuzhenphaufj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoeuo
gjsrx phoznofengbhxahenphejuq,hejhsjtjtijsjqhnohuyyk

“Nhqnqg’ohzugohoxhpjjhcx haxshugcoengb,”hejhugpzjsjqhontnqyckh“N’rj
pntmychfxtjhoxhpjjhcx k”

Enphisxoejs’phontnqnochxirnx pychpxaojgjqhGnlxyuckhEnphynmphoznofejqk

“Xe,hpxhoeuo’phno?”hejhpunqkh“Zjyy,hfxtjhng;hpnohqxzgkhYnljhpxtj
p mmjs?hTupeu,hisngbhp mmjshaxshoesjjkhGx,hpoxmhuhtng ojkhQxhcx hlgxz
zexhoenphnp?”hejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhenphisxoejs,hugqhngqnfuongbhoej
bjgoyjtughnghoejh.jslng:h“OenphnphTskhLsnoplc,htchasnjgqhasxthLnjr,hu
rjschsjtusluiyjhtugkhEj’phmjspjf ojqhichoejhmxynfj,hxahfx spj,hijfu pj
ej’phgxohuhpfx gqsjyk”

Ugqhejhyxxljqhsx gqhnghoejhzuchejhuyzucphqnqhuohjrjscxgjhnghoejhsxxtk
Pjjngbhoeuohoejhzxtughpougqngbhnghoejhqxxszuchzuphtxrngbhoxhbx,hej
pex ojqhoxhejs,h“Zunohuhtng oj,hNhpunqk”hUgqhznoehoejhnguinynochox
jvmsjpphentpjya,hoejhngfxejsjgfjhoeuohLxgpougonghlgjzhpxhzjyy,hej
ijbug,hznoehugxoejshyxxlhsx gqhuohjrjscxgj,hoxhojyyhenphisxoejs
Lsnoplc’phpoxsc:hexzhejheuqhijjghjvmjyyjqhasxthoejh gnrjspnochaxs
pousongbhuhijgjanohpxfnjochaxshoejhmxxshpo qjgophugqhP gquchpfexxyp;
ugqhexzhejheuqhuaojszusqphijjghuhojufejshnghuhmjupugohpfexxy,hugqhexz
ejheuqhijjghqsnrjghx ohxahoeuohoxx,hugqheuqhuaojszusqphijjghfxgqjtgjq
axshpxtjoengbk

“Cx ’sjhxahoejhLnjrh gnrjspnoc?”hpunqhLxgpougonghYjrnghoxhLsnoplc,hox
isjulhoejhuzlzusqhpnyjgfjhoeuohaxyyxzjqk

“Cjp,hNhzuphxahLnjr,”hLsnoplchsjmynjqhugbsnyc,henphaufjhqusljgngbk

“Ugqhoenphzxtug,”hGnlxyuchYjrnghngojss mojqhent,hmxngongbhoxhejs,h“np
oejhmusogjshxahtchynaj,hTuscuhGnlxyujrgukhNhoxxlhejshx ohxahuhiuq
ex pj,”hugqhejh.jsljqhenphgjflhpucngbhoenp;h“i ohNhyxrjhejshugqhsjpmjfo
ejs,hugqhugcxgjhzexhzugophoxhlgxzhtj,”hejhuqqjq,hsunpngbhenphrxnfjhugq
lgnoongbhenphisxzp,h“NhijbhoxhyxrjhejshugqhsjpmjfohejskhPej’ph. pohoej
putjhuphtchznaj,h. pohoejhputjkhPxhgxzhcx hlgxzhzexthcx ’rjhoxhqxhznoek
Ugqhnahcx hoenglhcx ’sjhyxzjsngbhcx spjya,hzjyy,hejsj’phoejhayxxs,
oejsj’phoejhqxxsk”

Ugqhubunghenphjcjphosurjyjqhngw nsngbychxrjshuyyhxahoejtk

“ZechNhpex yqhijhyxzjsngbhtcpjya,hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqk”

“Oejg,hTupeu,hojyyhoejthoxhisngbhp mmjs;hoesjjhmxsonxgp,hpmnsnophugq
zngjkkkkhGx,hzunohuhtng ojkkkkhGx,hnohqxjpg’ohtuoojskkkkhBxhuyxgbk”


Feumojsh25

“Pxhcx hpjj,”hm sp jqhGnlxyuchYjrng,hmunga yychzsnglyngbhenphaxsjejuq
ugqhoznofengbk

Nohzuphxirnx pychqnaanf yohaxshenthoxhoenglhxahzeuohoxhpuchugqhqxk

“Ejsj,hqxhcx hpjj?”kkkhEjhmxngojqhoxhpxtjhpxsohxahnsxghiusp,haupojgjq
oxbjoejshznoehposngbp,hycngbhnghuhfxsgjshxahoejhsxxtkh“Qxhcx hpjjhoeuo?
Oeuo’phoejhijbnggngbhxahuhgjzhoengbhzj’sjhbxngbhngoxkhNo’phuhmsxq fonrj
uppxfnuonxgkkkk”

LxgpougonghpfusfjychejusqhentkhEjhyxxljqhngoxhenphpnflyc,hfxgp tmonrj
aufj,hugqhejhzuphtxsjhugqhtxsjhpxsschaxshent,hugqhejhfx yqhgxohaxsfj
entpjyahoxhynpojghoxhzeuohenphisxoejshzuphojyyngbhenthuix ohoej
uppxfnuonxgkhEjhpuzhoeuohoenphuppxfnuonxghzuphuhtjsjhugfexshoxhpurjhent
asxthpjya-fxgojtmokhGnlxyuchYjrnghzjgohxghouylngb:

“Cx hlgxzhoeuohfumnouyhxmmsjppjphoejhyuixsjskhOejhyuixsjsphznoeh p,hoej
mjupugop,hijushuyyhoejhi sqjghxahyuixs,hugqhusjhpxhmyufjqhoeuohexzjrjs
t fehoejchzxslhoejchfug’ohjpfumjhasxthoejnshmxpnonxghxahijupophxa
i sqjgkhUyyhoejhmsxanophxahyuixs,hxghzenfehoejchtnbeohntmsxrjhoejns
mxpnonxg,hugqhbunghyjnp sjhaxshoejtpjyrjp,hugqhuaojshoeuohjq fuonxg,
uyyhoejhp smy phruy jphusjhouljghasxthoejthichoejhfumnouynpopkhUgq
pxfnjoc’phpxhfxgpono ojqhoeuohoejheusqjshoejchzxsl,hoejhbsjuojshoej
msxanohxahoejhtjsfeugophugqhyugqxzgjsp,hzenyjhoejchpouchijupophxa
i sqjghoxhoejhjgqkhUgqhoeuohpouojhxahoengbpht pohijhfeugbjq,”hej
angnpejqh m,hugqhejhyxxljqhw jponxgngbychuohenphisxoejsk

“Cjp,hxahfx spj,”hpunqhLxgpougong,hyxxlngbhuohoejhmuofehxahsjqhoeuoheuq
fxtjhx ohxghenphisxoejs’phmsx.jfongbhfejjlixgjpk

“Ugqhpxhzj’sjhax gqngbhuhyxflptnoep’huppxfnuonxg,hzejsjhuyyhoej
msxq fonxghugqhmsxanohugqhoejhfenjahngpos tjgophxahmsxq fonxghznyyhij
nghfxttxgk”

“Zejsjhnphoejhuppxfnuonxghoxhij?”hupljqhLxgpougonghYjrngk

“NghoejhrnyyubjhxahRxdqsjt,hLudughbxrjsgtjgok”

“I ohzechnghuhrnyyubj?hNghoejhrnyyubjp,hNhoengl,hoejsjhnphmyjgochxa
zxslhuphnohnpkhZechuhyxflptnoep’huppxfnuonxghnghuhrnyyubj?”

“Zec?hIjfu pjhoejhmjupugophusjh. pohupht fehpyurjphuphoejchjrjshzjsj,
ugqhoeuo’phzechcx hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehqxg’ohynljhmjxmyjhoxhoschugq
bjohoejthx ohxahoejnshpyurjsc,”hpunqhGnlxyuchYjrng,hjvupmjsuojqhichoej
xi.jfonxgk

LxgpougonghYjrnghpnbejq,hyxxlngbhtjugzenyjhuix ohoejhfejjsyjpphugq
qnsochsxxtkhOenphpnbehpjjtjqhoxhjvupmjsuojhGnlxyuchponyyhtxsjk

“Nhlgxzhcx shugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phusnpoxfsuonfhrnjzpkhNhlgxzhoeuohej
ummynjphuyyhoejhmxzjshxahenphngojyyjfohoxh. ponachjvnpongbhjrnypk”

“Gx;hugqhzeuohqxhcx houylhxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofehaxs?”hpunqhYjrng,
ptnyngbk

“PjsbjchNrugxrnofe?hN’yyhojyyhcx hzeuohaxs!”hGnlxyuchYjrnghpesnjljq
p qqjgychuohoejhgutjhxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“N’yyhojyyhcx hzeuohaxskkkk
I ohzeuo’phoejh pjhxahouylngb?hOejsj’phxgychxgjhoengbkkkkhZeuohqnqhcx 
fxtjhoxhtjhaxs?hCx hyxxlhqxzghxghoenp,hugqhcx ’sjhzjyfxtjhox,—ugqhbx
uzuc,hnghBxq’phgutjhbxhuzuc!”hejhpesnjljq,hbjoongbh mhasxthenphfeunsk
“Ugqhbxhuzuc,hugqhbxhuzuc!”

“Nhqxg’ohyxxlhqxzghxghnohuohuyy,”hpunqhLxgpougonghYjrnghontnqyckh“N
qxg’ohjrjghqnpm ojhnok”

UohoeuohngpougohTuscuhGnlxyujrguhfutjhiuflkhGnlxyuchYjrnghyxxljqhsx gq
ugbsnychuohejskhPejhzjgohw nflychoxhent,hugqhzenpmjsjqhpxtjoengbk

“N’thgxohzjyy;hN’rjhbsxzghnssnouiyj,”hpunqhGnlxyuchYjrng,hbjoongb
fuytjshugqhisjuoengbhmunga yyc;h“ugqhoejghcx houylhoxhtjhxahPjsbjc
NrugxrnofehugqhenphusonfyjkhNo’php fehs iinpe,hp fehycngb,hp fe
pjya-qjfjmonxgkhZeuohfughuhtughzsnojhxah. ponfjhzexhlgxzphgxoengbhxa
no?hEurjhcx hsjuqhenphusonfyj?”hejhupljqhLsnoplc,hpnoongbhqxzghubunghuo
oejhouiyj,hugqhtxrngbhiuflhxaaheuyahxahnohoejhpfuoojsjqhfnbusjoojp,hpx
uphoxhfyjushuhpmufjk

“N’rjhgxohsjuqhno,”hLsnoplchsjpmxgqjqhbyxxtnyc,hxirnx pychgxohqjpnsngb
oxhjgojshngoxhoejhfxgrjspuonxgk

“Zechgxo?”hpunqhGnlxyuchYjrng,hgxzho sgngbhznoehjvupmjsuonxgh mxg
Lsnoplck

“Ijfu pjhNhqnqg’ohpjjhoejh pjhxahzupongbhtchontjhxrjshnok”

“Xe,hi ohjvf pjhtj,hexzhqnqhcx hlgxzhnohzx yqhijhzupongbhcx shontj?
Oeuohusonfyj’phoxxhqjjmhaxshtugchmjxmyj—oeuo’phoxhpuchno’phxrjshoejns
ejuqpkhI ohznoehtj,hno’phugxoejshoengb;hNhpjjhoesx behenphnqjup,hugqhN
lgxzhzejsjhnophzjulgjpphynjpk”

Jrjscxgjhzupht ojkhLsnoplchbxoh mhqjynijsuojychugqhsjufejqhenphfumk

“Zxg’ohcx heurjhp mmjs?hUyyhsnbeo,hbxxq-icj!hFxtjhsx gqhoxtxssxzhznoe
oejhyxflptnoek”

Lsnoplcheuqheusqychbxgjhx ohzejghGnlxyuchYjrnghptnyjqhugqhzngljqk

“Ej’phgxhbxxqhjnoejs,”hejhpunqkh“Nhpjj,hxahfx spjkkkk”

I ohuohoeuohngpougohLsnoplc,huohoejhqxxs,hfuyyjqhentkkkk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugohgxz?”hejhpunq,hugqhzjgohx ohoxhenthnghoejhmuppubjk
YjaohuyxgjhznoehTuscuhGnlxyujrgu,hYjrngho sgjqhoxhejsk

“Eurjhcx hijjghyxgbhznoehtchisxoejs?”hejhpunqhoxhejsk

“Cjp,htxsjhoeughuhcjuskhGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe’phejuyoeheuphijfxtjhrjsc
mxxskhGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofehqsnglphuhbsjuohqjuy,”hpejhpunqk

“Oeuohnphkkkhexzhqxjphejhqsngl?”

“Qsnglphrxqlu,hugqhno’phiuqhaxshentk”

“Ugqhuhbsjuohqjuy?”hzenpmjsjqhYjrngk

“Cjp,”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhontnqychoxzusqphoejhqxxszuc,hzejsjhGnlxyuc
Yjrngheuqhsjummjusjqk

“Zeuohzjsjhcx houylngbhuix o?”hejhpunq,hlgnoongbhenphisxzp,hugqho sgngb
enphpfusjqhjcjphasxthxgjhoxhoejhxoejskh“Zeuohzuphno?”

“Xe,hgxoengb,”hLxgpougonghugpzjsjqhnghfxga pnxgk

“Xe,hnahcx hqxg’ohzugohoxhpuc,hqxg’okhXgychno’phgxhbxxqhcx shouylngbhox
ejskhPej’phuhzjgfe,hugqhcx ’sjhuhbjgoyjtug,”hejhpunqhznoehuh.jslhxahoej
gjflkh“Cx h gqjspougqhjrjscoengb,hNhpjj,hugqheurjhouljghpoxflhxa
jrjscoengb,hugqhyxxlhznoehfxttnpjsuonxghxghtchpexsofxtngbp,”hejhijbug
ubung,hsunpngbhenphrxnfjk

“GnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe,hGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe,”hzenpmjsjqhTuscu
Gnlxyujrgu,hubunghbxngbh mhoxhentk

“Xe,hrjschzjyy,hrjschzjyy!kkkhI ohzejsj’phoejhp mmjs?hUe,hejsjhnohnp,”
ejhpunq,hpjjngbhuhzunojshznoehuhosuckh“Ejsj,hpjohnohejsj,”hejhuqqjq
ugbsnyc,hugqhmsxtmoychpjndngbhoejhrxqlu,hejhmx sjqhx ohuhbyuppa yhugq
qsuglhnohbsjjqnyckh“Ynljhuhqsngl?”hejho sgjqhoxhenphisxoejs,hugqhuo
xgfjhijfutjhijoojshe txsjqk

“Zjyy,hjgx behxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofekhN’thbyuqhoxhpjjhcx ,hugczuckhUaojs
uyy’phpunqhugqhqxgj,hzj’sjhgxohposugbjspkhFxtj,heurjhuhqsnglkhOjyyhtj
zeuohcx ’sjhqxngb,”hejhzjgohxg,hbsjjqnycht gfengbhuhmnjfjhxahisjuq,hugq
mx sngbhx ohugxoejshbyuppa ykh“Exzhusjhcx hynrngb?”

“Nhynrjhuyxgjhnghoejhfx gosc,huphNh pjqhoxkhN’thi pchyxxlngbhuaojshoej
yugq,”hugpzjsjqhLxgpougong,hzuofengbhznoehexssxshoejhbsjjqngjpphznoe
zenfehenphisxoejshuojhugqhqsugl,hugqhoscngbhoxhfxgfjuyhoeuohejhgxonfjq
nok

“Zechqxg’ohcx hbjohtussnjq?”

“Noheupg’oheummjgjqhpx,”hLxgpougonghugpzjsjq,hsjqqjgngbhuhynooyjk

“Zechgxo?hAxshtjhgxzhkkkhjrjscoengb’phuohughjgq!hN’rjhtuqjhuhtjpphxahtc
ynajkhI ohoenphN’rjhpunq,hugqhNhpuchponyy,hoeuohnahtchpeusjheuqhijjg
bnrjghtjhzejghNhgjjqjqhno,htchzexyjhynajhzx yqheurjhijjghqnaajsjgok”

Lxgpougonghtuqjheupojhoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxgk

“Qxhcx hlgxzhcx shynooyjhRugcu’phznoehtj,huhfyjslhnghoejhfx gongbex pj
uohMxlsxrplxjk”

Gnlxyuch.jsljqhenphgjfl,hugqhpuglhngoxhoex beok

“Cjp,hojyyhtjhzeuo’phbxngbhxghuohMxlsxrplxjkhNphoejhex pjhpougqngb
ponyy,hugqhoejhinsfehosjjp,hugqhx shpfexxysxxt?hUgqhMenynmhoej
busqjgjs,hnphejhynrngb?hExzhNhsjtjtijshoejhusixshugqhoejhpjuo!hGxzhtngq
ugqhqxg’ohuyojshugcoengbhnghoejhex pj,hi ohtuljheupojhugqhbjohtussnjq,
ugqhtuljhjrjscoengbhuphnoh pjqhoxhijhubungkhOejghN’yyhfxtjhugqhpjjhcx ,
nahcx shznajhnphgnfjk”

“I ohfxtjhoxhtjhgxz,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Exzhgnfjychzjhzx yqhussugbjhno!”

“N’qhfxtjhugqhpjjhcx hnahNhzjsjhp sjhNhpex yqhgxohangqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofek”

“Cx hzx yqg’ohangqhenthoejsjkhNhynrjhw nojhngqjmjgqjgoychxahentk”

“Cjp,hi ohpuchzeuohcx hynlj,hcx hznyyheurjhoxhfexxpjhijozjjghtjhugq
ent,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhontnqychngoxhenphisxoejs’phaufjk

Oenphontnqnochox fejqhLxgpougongk

“Nahcx hzugohoxhejushtchfxgajppnxghxahaunoehxghoejhp i.jfo,hNhojyyhcx 
oeuohnghcx shw ussjyhznoehPjsbjchNrugxrnofehNhouljhgjnoejshpnqjkhCx ’sj
ixoehzsxgbkhCx ’sjhtxsjhzsxgbhjvojsguyyc,hugqhejhngzusqyck”

“Ue,hue!hCx hpjjhoeuo,hcx hpjjhoeuo!”hGnlxyuchpex ojqh.xca yyck

“I ohNhmjspxguyychruy jhasnjgqychsjyuonxgphznoehcx htxsjhijfu pjkkkk”

“Zec,hzec?”

Lxgpougonghfx yqhgxohpuchoeuohejhruy jqhnohtxsjhijfu pjhGnlxyuchzup
 geummc,hugqhgjjqjqhuaajfonxgkhI ohGnlxyuchlgjzhoeuohoenphzuph. pohzeuo
ejhtjugohoxhpuc,hugqhpfxzyngbhejhoxxlh mhoejhrxqluhubungk

“Jgx be,hGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe!”hpunqhTuscuhGnlxyujrgu,hposjofengbhx o
ejshmy tm,hiusjhusthoxzusqphoejhqjfugojsk

“Yjohnohij!hQxg’ohngpnpo!hN’yyhijuohcx !”hejhpex ojqk

TuscuhGnlxyujrguhptnyjqhuhpzjjohugqhbxxq-e txsjqhptnyj,hzenfehzuphuo
xgfjhsjayjfojqhxghGnlxyuc’phaufj,hugqhpejhoxxlhoejhixooyjk

“Ugqhqxhcx hp mmxpjhpejh gqjspougqphgxoengb?”hpunqhGnlxyuckh“Pej
 gqjspougqphnohuyyhijoojshoeughugchxah pkhNpg’ohnohos jhoejsj’p
pxtjoengbhbxxqhugqhpzjjohnghejs?”

“Zjsjhcx hgjrjshijaxsjhnghTxpfxz?”hLxgpougonghpunqhoxhejs,haxshoejhpulj
xahpucngbhpxtjoengbk

“Xgychcx ht pog’ohijhmxynojhugqhponaahznoehejskhNohasnbeojgphejskhGx
xgjhjrjshpmxljhoxhejshpxhi ohoejh. ponfjphxahoejhmjufjhzexhosnjqhejs
axshoscngbhoxhbjohx ohxahuhex pjhxahnyy-autjkhTjsfchxgh p,hoej
pjgpjyjppgjpphnghoejhzxsyq!”hejhfsnjqhp qqjgyckh“Oejpjhgjz
ngpono onxgp,hoejpjh. ponfjphxahoejhmjufj,hs suyhfx gfnyp,hzeuo
enqjx pgjpphnohuyyhnp!”

Ugqhejhijbughoxhjgyusbjhxghenphjgfx gojsphznoehoejhgjzhngpono onxgpk

LxgpougonghYjrnghejusqhent,hugqhoejhqnpijynjahnghoejhpjgpjhxahuyy
m iynfhngpono onxgp,hzenfehejhpeusjqhznoehent,hugqhxaojghjvmsjppjq,hzup
qnpoupoja yhoxhenthgxzhasxthenphisxoejs’phynmpk

“Nghugxoejshzxsyqhzjhpeuyyh gqjspougqhnohuyy,”hejhpunqhynbeoyck

“Nghugxoejshzxsyq!hUe,hNhqxg’ohynljhoeuohxoejshzxsyq!hNhqxg’ohynljhno,”
ejhpunq,hyjoongbhenphpfusjqhjcjphsjpohxghenphisxoejs’phjcjpkh“Ejsjhxgj
zx yqhoenglhoeuohoxhbjohx ohxahuyyhoejhiupjgjpphugqhoejhtjpp,hxgj’phxzg
ugqhxoejshmjxmyj’p,hzx yqhijhuhbxxqhoengb,hugqhcjohN’thuasunqhxahqjuoe,
uza yychuasunqhxahqjuoek”hEjhpe qqjsjqkh“I ohqxhqsnglhpxtjoengbkhZx yq
cx hynljhpxtjhfeutmubgj?hXshpeuyyhzjhbxhpxtjzejsj?hYjo’phbxhoxhoej
Bcmpnjp!hQxhcx hlgxzhNheurjhbxohpxhaxgqhxahoejhBcmpnjphugqhS ppnug
pxgbpk”

Enphpmjjfeheuqhijb ghoxhauyojs,hugqhejhmuppjqhuis moychasxthxgjhp i.jfo
oxhugxoejskhLxgpougonghznoehoejhejymhxahTupeuhmjsp uqjqhenthgxohoxhbx
x ohugczejsj,hugqhbxohenthoxhijqhexmjyjppychqs glk

TupeuhmsxtnpjqhoxhzsnojhoxhLxgpougonghnghfupjhxahgjjq,hugqhoxhmjsp uqj
GnlxyuchYjrnghoxhbxhugqhpouchznoehenphisxoejsk


Feumojsh26

NghoejhtxsgngbhLxgpougonghYjrnghyjaohTxpfxz,hugqhoxzusqphjrjgngbhej
sjufejqhextjkhXghoejh.x sgjchnghoejhosunghejhouyljqhoxhenphgjnbeixsp
uix ohmxynonfphugqhoejhgjzhsunyzucp,hugq,h. pohuphnghTxpfxz,hejhzup
xrjsfxtjhichuhpjgpjhxahfxga pnxghxahnqjup,hqnppuonpaufonxghznoe
entpjya,hpeutjhxahpxtjoengbhxshxoejskhI ohzejghejhbxohx ohuohenphxzg
pouonxg,hzejghejhpuzhenphxgj-jcjqhfxufetug,hNbguo,hznoehoejhfxyyushxa
enphfxuoho sgjqh m;hzejg,hnghoejhqnthynbeohsjayjfojqhichoejhpouonxg
ansjp,hejhpuzhenphxzghpyjqbj,henphxzghexspjphznoehoejnshounyphonjqh m,
nghoejnsheusgjpphosnttjqhznoehsngbphugqhouppjyp;hzejghoejhfxufetug
Nbguo,huphejhm ohnghenphy bbubj,hoxyqhenthoejhrnyyubjhgjzp,hoeuohoej
fxgosufoxsheuqhussnrjq,hugqhoeuohMuruheuqhfuyrjq,—ejhajyohoeuohynooyj
ichynooyjhoejhfxga pnxghzuphfyjusngbh m,hugqhoejhpeutjhugq
pjya-qnppuonpaufonxghzjsjhmuppngbhuzuckhEjhajyohoenphuohoejhtjsjhpnbeo
xahNbguohugqhoejhexspjp;hi ohzejghejheuqhm ohxghoejhpejjmplnghisx beo
axshent,heuqhpuohqxzghzsummjqh mhnghoejhpyjqbj,hugqheuqhqsnrjghxaa
mxgqjsngbhxghoejhzxslhoeuohyuchijaxsjhenthnghoejhrnyyubj,hugqhpousngb
uohoejhpnqj-exspj,hoeuoheuqhijjghenphpuqqyj-exspj,hmupohenphmsntjhgxz,
i ohuhpmnsnojqhijupohasxthoejhQxg,hejhijbughoxhpjjhzeuoheuqheummjgjqhox
enthnghw nojhuhqnaajsjgohynbeokhEjhajyohentpjya,hugqhqnqhgxohzugohoxhij
ugcxgjhjypjkhUyyhejhzugojqhgxzhzuphoxhijhijoojshoeughijaxsjkhNghoej
anspohmyufjhejhsjpxyrjqhoeuohasxthoeuohquchejhzx yqhbnrjh mhexmngbhaxs
ugchjvosuxsqnguscheummngjpp,hp fehuphtussnubjht poheurjhbnrjghent,hugq
fxgpjw jgoychejhzx yqhgxohpxhqnpqunghzeuohejhsjuyycheuqkhPjfxgqyc,hej
zx yqhgjrjshubunghyjohentpjyahbnrjhzuchoxhyxzhmuppnxg,hoejhtjtxschxa
zenfeheuqhpxhoxso sjqhenthzejghejheuqhijjghtulngbh mhenphtngqhoxhtulj
ughxaajskhOejghsjtjtijsngbhenphisxoejshGnlxyuc,hejhsjpxyrjqhoxhentpjya
oeuohejhzx yqhgjrjshuyyxzhentpjyahoxhaxsbjohent,hoeuohejhzx yqhaxyyxz
enth m,hugqhgxohyxpjhpnbeohxahent,hpxhuphoxhijhsjuqchoxhejymhzejg
oengbphpex yqhbxhnyyhznoehentkhUgqhoeuohzx yqhijhpxxg,hejhajyokhOejg,
oxx,henphisxoejs’phouylhxahfxtt gnpt,hzenfehejheuqhosjuojqhpxhynbeoyc
uohoejhontj,hgxzhtuqjhenthoenglkhEjhfxgpnqjsjqhuhsjrxy onxghnghjfxgxtnf
fxgqnonxgphgxgpjgpjkhI ohejhuyzucphajyohoejhng. ponfjhxahenphxzg
ui gqugfjhnghfxtmusnpxghznoehoejhmxrjsochxahoejhmjupugop,hugqhgxzhej
qjojstngjqhoeuohpxhuphoxhajjyhw nojhnghoejhsnbeo,hoex behejheuqhzxsljq
eusqhugqhynrjqhichgxhtjugphy v snx pychijaxsj,hejhzx yqhgxzhzxslhponyy
eusqjs,hugqhzx yqhuyyxzhentpjyahjrjghyjpphy v sckhUgqhuyyhoenphpjjtjq
oxhenthpxhjupchuhfxgw jpohxrjshentpjyahoeuohejhpmjgohoejhzexyjhqsnrjhng
oejhmyjupugojpohqucqsjutpkhZnoehuhsjpxy ojhajjyngbhxahexmjhnghuhgjz,
ijoojshynaj,hejhsjufejqhextjhijaxsjhgngjhx’fyxflhuohgnbeok

Oejhpgxzhxahoejhynooyjhw uqsugbyjhijaxsjhoejhex pjhzuphynoh mhichu
ynbeohnghoejhijqsxxthzngqxzphxahenphxyqhg spj,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hzex
mjsaxstjqhoejhq onjphxahex pjljjmjshnghenphex pjkhPejhzuphgxohcjo
upyjjmkhLx dtu,hzuljqh mhichejs,hfutjhpnqyngbhpyjjmnychx ohxgoxhoej
pojmpkhUhpjoojshinofe,hYuplu,hsughx ohoxx,huytxpoh mpjoongbhLx dtu,hugq
zengngb,ho sgjqhsx gqhuix ohYjrng’phlgjjp,h. tmngbh mhugqhyxgbngb,hi o
gxohqusngb,hoxhm ohejshaxsjmuzphxghenphfejpok

“Cx ’sjhpxxghiuflhubung,hpns,”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguk

“Nhbxohonsjqhxahno,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgukhZnoehasnjgqp,hxgjhnphzjyy;hi ohuo
extj,hxgjhnphijoojs,”hejhugpzjsjq,hugqhzjgohngoxhenphpo qck

Oejhpo qchzuphpyxzychynoh mhuphoejhfugqyjhzuphisx beohngkhOejhautnynus
qjounyphfutjhx o:hoejhpoub’phexsgp,hoejhixxlpejyrjp,hoejhyxxlngb-byupp,
oejhpoxrjhznoehnophrjgonyuoxs,hzenfeheuqhyxgbhzugojqhtjgqngb,henp
auoejs’phpxau,huhyusbjhouiyj,hxghoejhouiyjhughxmjghixxl,huhisxljg
upeosuc,huhtug pfsnmohixxlhznoehenpheugqzsnongbkhUphejhpuzhuyyhoenp,
oejsjhfutjhxrjshenthaxshughngpougohuhqx iohxahoejhmxppninynochxa
ussugbngbhoejhgjzhynaj,hxahzenfehejheuqhijjghqsjutngbhxghoejhsxuqkhUyy
oejpjhosufjphxahenphynajhpjjtjqhoxhfy ofehent,hugqhoxhpuchoxhent:h“Gx,
cx ’sjhgxohbxngbhoxhbjohuzuchasxth p,hugqhcx ’sjhgxohbxngbhoxhij
qnaajsjgo,hi ohcx ’sjhbxngbhoxhijhoejhputjhuphcx ’rjhuyzucphijjg;hznoe
qx iop,hjrjsyupongbhqnppuonpaufonxghznoehcx spjya,hrunghjaaxsophox
utjgq,hugqhauyyp,hugqhjrjsyupongbhjvmjfouonxg,hxahuheummngjpphzenfehcx 
zxg’ohbjo,hugqhzenfehnpg’ohmxppniyjhaxshcx k”

Oenphoejhoengbphpunqhoxhent,hi ohugxoejshrxnfjhnghenphejusohzuphojyyngb
enthoeuohejht pohgxohauyyh gqjshoejhpzuchxahoejhmupo,hugqhoeuohxgjhfug
qxhugcoengbhznoehxgjpjyakhUgqhejusngbhoeuohrxnfj,hejhzjgohngoxhoej
fxsgjshzejsjhpoxxqhenphozxhejurchq tiijyyp,hugqhijbughisugqnpengbhoejt
ynljhuhbctgupo,hoscngbhoxhsjpoxsjhenphfxganqjgohojtmjskhOejsjhzuphu
fsjulhxahpojmphuohoejhqxxskhEjheuponychm ohqxzghoejhq tiijyypk

Oejhiunynaahfutjhng,hugqhpunqhjrjscoengb,hoeuglhBxq,hzuphqxngbhzjyy;
i ohngaxstjqhenthoeuohoejhi flzejuohnghoejhgjzhqscngbhtufengjheuqhijjg
uhynooyjhpfxsfejqkhOenphmnjfjhxahgjzphnssnouojqhYjrngkhOejhgjzhqscngb
tufengjheuqhijjghfxgpos fojqhugqhmusoychngrjgojqhichYjrngkhOejhiunynaa
euqhuyzucphijjghubungpohoejhqscngbhtufengj,hugqhgxzhnohzuphznoe
p mmsjppjqhosn tmehoeuohejhuggx gfjqhoeuohoejhi flzejuoheuqhijjg
pfxsfejqkhYjrnghzuphanstychfxgrngfjqhoeuohnahoejhi flzejuoheuqhijjg
pfxsfejq,hnohzuphxgychijfu pjhoejhmsjfu onxgpheuqhgxohijjghouljg,haxs
zenfehejheuqhe gqsjqphxahontjphbnrjghxsqjspkhEjhzuphuggxcjq,hugq
sjmsntugqjqhoejhiunynaakhI ohoejsjheuqhijjghughntmxsougohugqh.xca y
jrjgo:hMuru,henphijpohfxz,hughjvmjgpnrjhijupo,hix beohuohuhpexz,heuq
fuyrjqk

“Lx dtu,hbnrjhtjhtchpejjmplngkhUgqhcx hojyyhoejthoxhouljhuhyugojsgk
N’yyhfxtjhugqhyxxlhuohejs,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhiunynaak

Oejhfxzex pjhaxshoejhtxsjhruy uiyjhfxzphzuph. pohijengqhoejhex pjk
Zuylngbhufsxpphoejhcusq,hmuppngbhuhpgxzqsnaohichoejhynyufhosjj,hejhzjgo
ngoxhoejhfxzex pjkhOejsjhzuphoejhzust,hpojutchptjyyhxahq gbhzejghoej
asxdjghqxxshzuphxmjgjq,hugqhoejhfxzp,hupoxgnpejqhuohoejh gautnynus
ynbeohxahoejhyugojsg,hponssjqhxghoejhasjpehposuzkhEjhfu beohuhbyntmpj
xahoejhisxuq,hptxxoe,hiyuflhugqhmnjiuyqhiuflhxahExyyugqlukhIjslxxo,hoej
i yy,hzuphycngbhqxzghznoehenphsngbhnghenphynm,hugqhpjjtjqhuix ohoxhbjo
 m,hi ohoex beohijoojshxahno,hugqhxgychburjhozxhpgxsophuphoejchmuppjq
ichentkhMuru,huhmjsajfohiju oc,he bjhuphuhenmmxmxout p,hznoehejshiufl
o sgjqhoxhoejt,hmsjrjgojqhoejnshpjjngbhoejhfuya,huphpejhpgnaajqhejshuyy
xrjsk

Yjrnghzjgohngoxhoejhmjg,hyxxljqhMuruhxrjs,hugqhynaojqhoejhsjqhugq
pmxoojqhfuyahxgoxhejshyxgb,hoxoojsngbhyjbpkhMuru,h gjupc,hijbughyxzngb,
i ohzejghYjrnghm ohoejhfuyahfyxpjhoxhejshpejhzuphpxxoejq,hugq,hpnbengb
ejurnyc,hijbughynflngbhejshznoehejshsx behoxgb jkhOejhfuya,ha tiyngb,
mxljqhejshgxpjh gqjshejshtxoejs’ph qqjs,hugqhponaajgjqhejshounyhx o
posunbeok

“Ejsj,hisngbhoejhynbeo,hAcxqxs,hoenphzuc,”hpunqhYjrng,hjvutngngbhoej
fuyakh“Ynljhoejhtxoejs!hoex behoejhfxyxshouljphuaojshoejhauoejs;hi o
oeuo’phgxoengbkhRjschbxxqkhYxgbhugqhisxuqhnghoejheu gfekhRuppnyc
Ajqxsxrnofe,hnpg’ohpejhpmyjgqnq?”hejhpunqhoxhoejhiunynaa,hw noj
axsbnrngbhenthaxshoejhi flzejuoh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahenphqjynbeohng
oejhfuyak

“Exzhfx yqhpejhaunyhoxhij?hXe,hPjtcxghoejhfxgosufoxshfutjhoejhquchuaojs
cx hyjaokhCx ht pohpjooyjhznoehent,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hpunqhoej
iunynaakh“Nhqnqhngaxsthcx huix ohoejhtufengjk”

Oenphw jponxghzuphjgx behoxhouljhYjrnghiuflhoxhuyyhoejhqjounyphxahenp
zxslhxghoejhjpouoj,hzenfehzuphxghuhyusbjhpfuyj,hugqhfxtmynfuojqkhEj
zjgohposunbeohasxthoejhfxzex pjhoxhoejhfx gongbhex pj,hugqhuaojshu
ynooyjhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhiunynaahugqhPjtcxghoejhfxgosufoxs,hejhzjgo
iuflhoxhoejhex pjhugqhposunbeoh mpounsphoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk


Feumojsh27

Oejhex pjhzuphinbhugqhxyq-aupenxgjq,hugqhYjrng,hoex behejhynrjqhuyxgj,
euqhoejhzexyjhex pjhejuojqhugqh pjqkhEjhlgjzhoeuohoenphzuphpo mnq,hej
lgjzhoeuohnohzuphmxpnonrjychgxohsnbeo,hugqhfxgosuschoxhenphmsjpjgohgjz
myugp,hi ohoenphex pjhzuphuhzexyjhzxsyqhoxhYjrngkhNohzuphoejhzxsyqhng
zenfehenphauoejshugqhtxoejsheuqhynrjqhugqhqnjqkhOejcheuqhynrjqh. pohoej
ynajhoeuohoxhYjrnghpjjtjqhoejhnqjuyhxahmjsajfonxg,hugqhoeuohejheuq
qsjutjqhxahijbnggngbhznoehenphznaj,henphautnyck

YjrnghpfusfjychsjtjtijsjqhenphtxoejskhEnphfxgfjmonxghxahejshzuphaxshent
uhpufsjqhtjtxsc,hugqhenpha o sjhznajhzuphix gqhoxhijhnghenphntubnguonxg
uhsjmjononxghxahoeuohjvw npnoj,hexychnqjuyhxahuhzxtughoeuohenphtxoejs
euqhijjgk

Ejhzuphpxhaushasxthfxgfjnrngbhxahyxrjhaxshzxtughumusohasxthtussnubj
oeuohejhmxpnonrjychmnfo sjqhoxhentpjyahanspohoejhautnyc,hugqhxgyc
pjfxgqusnychoejhzxtughzexhzx yqhbnrjhenthuhautnyckhEnphnqjuphxa
tussnubjhzjsj,hfxgpjw jgoyc,hw nojh gynljhoexpjhxahoejhbsjuohtu.xsnoc
xahenphufw ungougfjp,haxshzexthbjoongbhtussnjqhzuphxgjhxahoejhg tjsx p
aufophxahpxfnuyhynajkhAxshYjrnghnohzuphoejhfenjahuaaunshxahynaj,hxg
zenfehnophzexyjheummngjppho sgjqkhUgqhgxzhejheuqhoxhbnrjh mhoeuok

Zejghejheuqhbxgjhngoxhoejhynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejsjhejhuyzucpheuqhoju,
ugqheuqhpjooyjqhentpjyahnghenphustfeunshznoehuhixxl,hugqhUbuaju
Tneuyxrguheuqhisx beohenthoju,hugqhznoehejsh p uy,h“Zjyy,hN’yyhpouchu
zenyj,hpns,”heuqhouljghuhfeunshnghoejhzngqxz,hejhajyohoeuo,hexzjrjs
posugbjhnohtnbeohij,hejheuqhgxohmusojqhasxthenphqucqsjutp,hugqhoeuohej
fx yqhgxohynrjhznoex ohoejtkhZejoejshznoehejs,hxshznoehugxoejs,hponyy
nohzx yqhijkhEjhzuphsjuqngbhuhixxl,hugqhoenglngbhxahzeuohejhzup
sjuqngb,hugqhpoxmmngbhoxhynpojghoxhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hzexhbxppnmjqhuzuc
znoex ohayubbngb,hugqhcjohznoehuyyhoeuo,huyyhpxsophxahmnfo sjphxa
autnychynajhugqhzxslhnghoejha o sjhsxpjhqnpfxggjfojqychijaxsjhenp
ntubnguonxgkhEjhajyohoeuohnghoejhqjmoehxahenphpx yhpxtjoengbheuqhijjg
m ohnghnophmyufj,hpjooyjqhqxzg,hugqhyunqhoxhsjpok

EjhejusqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguhouylngbhxahexzhMsxexsheuqhaxsbxoojghenphq oc
oxhBxq,hugqhznoehoejhtxgjchYjrngheuqhbnrjghenthoxhi chuhexspj,heuqhijjg
qsnglngbhznoex ohpoxmmngb,hugqheuqhijuojghenphznajhonyyhej’qheuya
lnyyjqhejskhEjhynpojgjq,hugqhsjuqhenphixxl,hugqhsjfuyyjqhoejhzexyj
osunghxahnqjuphp bbjpojqhichenphsjuqngbkhNohzuphOcgquyy’ph_Osjuonpjhxg
Ejuo_khEjhsjfuyyjqhenphxzghfsnonfnptphxahOcgquyyhxahenphfxtmyufjgo
puonpaufonxghnghoejhfyjrjsgjpphxahenphjvmjsntjgop,hugqhaxshenphyuflhxa
menyxpxmenfhngpnbeokhUgqhp qqjgychoejsjhayxuojqhngoxhenphtngqhoej
.xca yhoex beo:h“Nghozxhcjusp’hontjhNhpeuyyheurjhozxhQ ofehfxzp;hMuru
ejspjyahznyyhmjseumphponyyhijhuynrj,huhqxdjghcx gbhqu beojsphxahIjslxxo
ugqhoejhoesjjhxoejsp—exzhyxrjyc!”

Ejhoxxlh mhenphixxlhubungkh“Rjschbxxq,hjyjfosnfnochugqhejuohusjhoej
putjhoengb;hi ohnphnohmxppniyjhoxhp ipono ojhoejhxgjhw ugonochaxshoej
xoejshnghoejhjw uonxghaxshoejhpxy onxghxahugchmsxiyjt?hGxkhZjyy,hoejg
zeuohxahno?hOejhfxggjfonxghijozjjghuyyhoejhaxsfjphxahguo sjhnphajyo
ngpongfonrjyckkkkhNo’phmusonf yuschgnfjhnahMuru’phqu beojshpex yqhijhu
sjq-pmxoojqhfxz,hugqhuyyhoejhejsqhznyyhouljhuaojshejs,hugqhoejhxoejs
oesjj,hoxx!hPmyjgqnq!hOxhbxhx ohznoehtchznajhugqhrnpnoxsphoxhtjjohoej
ejsqkkkkhTchznajhpucp,h‘LxpocuhugqhNhyxxljqhuaojshoeuohfuyahynljhu
fenyqk’h‘Exzhfughnohngojsjpohcx hpxht fe?’hpucphuhrnpnoxskh‘Jrjscoengb
oeuohngojsjpophent,hngojsjpophtjk’hI ohzexhznyyhpejhij?”hUgqhej
sjtjtijsjqhzeuoheuqheummjgjqhuohTxpfxzkkkkh“Zjyy,hoejsj’phgxoengbhoxhij
qxgjkkkkhNo’phgxohtchau yokhI ohgxzhjrjscoengbhpeuyyhbxhxghnghuhgjz
zuckhNo’phgxgpjgpjhoxhmsjojgqhoeuohynajhzxg’ohyjohxgj,hoeuohoejhmupo
zxg’ohyjohxgjkhXgjht pohpos bbyjhoxhynrjhijoojs,ht fehijoojsk”kkkhEj
sunpjqhenphejuq,hugqhajyyhoxhqsjutngbkhXyqhYuplu,hzexheuqhgxohcjoha yyc
qnbjpojqhejshqjynbeohuohenphsjo sg,hugqheuqhs ghx ohngoxhoejhcusqhox
iusl,hfutjhiuflhzubbngbhejshouny,hugqhfsjmoh mhoxhent,hisngbngbhnghoej
pfjgohxahasjpehuns,hm ohejshejuqh gqjshenpheugq,hugqhzengjq
myungonrjyc,huplngbhoxhijhposxljqk

“Oejsj,hzex’qheurjhoex beohno?”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgukh“Oejhqxbhgxzhkkk
zec,hpejh gqjspougqphoeuohejshtupojs’phfxtjhextj,hugqhoeuohej’p
yxz-pmnsnojqk”

“Zechyxz-pmnsnojq?”

“Qxhcx hp mmxpjhNhqxg’ohpjjhno,hpns?hNo’phenbehontjhNhpex yqhlgxzhoej
bjgosckhZec,hN’rjhbsxzgh mhasxthuhynooyjhoengbhznoehoejtkhNo’phgxoengb,
pns,hpxhyxgbhuphoejsj’phejuyoehugqhuhfyjushfxgpfnjgfjk”

Yjrnghyxxljqhngojgoychuohejs,hp smsnpjqhuohexzhzjyyhpejhlgjzhenp
oex beok

“PeuyyhNhajofehcx hugxoejshf m?”hpunqhpej,hugqhoulngbhenphf mhpejhzjgo
x ok

Yupluhljmohmxlngbhejshejuqh gqjshenpheugqkhEjhposxljqhejs,hugqhpej
msxtmoychf syjqh mhuohenphajjo,hyucngbhejshejuqhxghuhengqmuzkhUgqhng
oxljghxahuyyhgxzhijngbhzjyyhugqhpuonpaufoxsc,hpejhxmjgjqhejshtx oehu
ynooyj,hptufljqhejshynmp,hugqhpjooyngbhejshponflchynmphtxsjhfxtaxsouiyc
uix ohejshxyqhojjoe,hpejhpuglhngoxhiynppa yhsjmxpjkhYjrnghzuofejqhuyy
ejshtxrjtjgophuoojgonrjyck

“Oeuo’phzeuohN’yyhqx,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya;h“oeuo’phzeuohN’yyhqx!
Gxoengb’phutnppkkkkhUyy’phzjyyk”


Feumojsh28

Uaojshoejhiuyy,hjusychgjvohtxsgngb,hUgguhUsluqcjrguhpjgohejshe piugqhu
ojyjbsuthoeuohpejhzuphyjurngbhTxpfxzhoejhputjhquck

“Gx,hNht pohbx,hNht pohbx”;hpejhjvmyungjqhoxhejshpnpojs-ng-yuzhoej
feugbjhnghejshmyugphnghuhoxgjhoeuohp bbjpojqhoeuohpejheuqhoxhsjtjtijs
pxhtugchoengbphoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhjg tjsuongbhoejt:h“gx,hnoheuqhsjuyyc
ijoojshijhoxquc!”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphgxohqngngbhuohextj,hi ohejhmsxtnpjqhoxhfxtjhugq
pjjhenphpnpojshxaahuohpjrjghx’fyxflk

Lnooc,hoxx,hqnqhgxohfxtj,hpjgqngbhuhgxojhoeuohpejheuqhuhejuqufejkhQxyyc
ugqhUgguhqngjqhuyxgjhznoehoejhfenyqsjghugqhoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjppk
Zejoejshnohzuphoeuohoejhfenyqsjghzjsjhanflyj,hxshoeuohoejcheuqhuf oj
pjgpjp,hugqhajyohoeuohUgguhzuphw nojhqnaajsjgohoeuohquchasxthzeuohpej
euqhijjghzejghoejcheuqhouljghp fehuhaugfchoxhejs,hoeuohpejhzuphgxohgxz
ngojsjpojqhnghoejt,—i ohoejcheuqhuis moychqsxmmjqhoejnshmyuchznoehoejns
u go,hugqhoejnshyxrjhaxshejs,hugqhzjsjhw nojhngqnaajsjgohoeuohpejhzup
bxngbhuzuckhUgguhzuphuipxsijqhoejhzexyjhtxsgngbhnghmsjmusuonxgphaxshejs
qjmuso sjkhPejhzsxojhgxojphoxhejshTxpfxzhufw ungougfjp,hm ohqxzghejs
uffx gop,hugqhmufljqkhUyoxbjoejshQxyychaugfnjqhpejhzuphgxohnghuhmyufnq
pouojhxahtngq,hi ohnghoeuohzxssnjqhtxxq,hzenfehQxyychlgjzhzjyyhznoe
ejspjya,hugqhzenfehqxjphgxohfxtjhznoex ohfu pj,hugqhaxshoejhtxpohmuso
fxrjsphqnppuonpaufonxghznoehpjyakhUaojshqnggjs,hUgguhzjgoh mhoxhejs
sxxthoxhqsjpp,hugqhQxyychaxyyxzjqhejsk

“Exzhw jjshcx husjhoxquc!”hQxyychpunqhoxhejsk

“N?hQxhcx hoenglhpx?hN’thgxohw jjs,hi ohN’thgupockhNhuthynljhoeuo
pxtjontjpkhNhljjmhajjyngbhuphnahNhfx yqhfsckhNo’phrjschpo mnq,hi o
no’yyhmupphxaa,”hpunqhUgguhw nflyc,hugqhpejhijgohejshay pejqhaufjhxrjs
uhongchiubhnghzenfehpejhzuphmuflngbhuhgnbeofumhugqhpxtjhfutisnf
eugqljsfenjapkhEjshjcjphzjsjhmusonf yusychisnbeo,hugqhzjsjhfxgong uyyc
pznttngbhznoehojuspkh“NghoejhputjhzuchNhqnqg’ohzugohoxhyjurj
Mjojspi sb,hugqhgxzhNhqxg’ohzugohoxhbxhuzuchasxthejsjk”

“Cx hfutjhejsjhugqhqnqhuhbxxqhqjjq,”hpunqhQxyyc,hyxxlngbhngojgoychuo
ejsk

Ugguhyxxljqhuohejshznoehjcjphzjohznoehojuspk

“Qxg’ohpuchoeuo,hQxyyckhN’rjhqxgjhgxoengb,hugqhfx yqhqxhgxoengbkhN
xaojghzxgqjshzechmjxmyjhusjhuyyhnghyjub jhoxhpmxnyhtjkhZeuoheurjhN
qxgj,hugqhzeuohfx yqhNhqx?hNghcx shejusohoejsjhzuphax gqhyxrjhjgx behox
axsbnrjkkkk”

“Nahnoheuqhgxohijjghaxshcx ,hBxqhlgxzphzeuohzx yqheurjheummjgjq!hExz
eummchcx husj,hUggu!”hpunqhQxyyckh“Jrjscoengbhnphfyjushugqhbxxqhnghcx s
ejusok”

“Jrjschejusoheuphnophxzgh_pljyjoxgp_,huphoejhJgbynpehpuck”

“Cx heurjhgxhpxsohxah_pljyjoxg_,heurjhcx ?hJrjscoengbhnphpxhfyjushng
cx k”

“Nheurj!”hpunqhUgguhp qqjgyc,hugq,h gjvmjfojqychuaojshejshojusp,huhpyc,
nsxgnfuyhptnyjhf srjqhejshynmpk

“Fxtj,hej’phut pngb,hugczuc,hcx sh_pljyjoxg_,hugqhgxohqjmsjppngb,”hpunq
Qxyyc,hptnyngbk

“Gx,hej’phqjmsjppngbkhQxhcx hlgxzhzechN’thbxngbhoxquchngpojuqhxa
oxtxssxz?hNo’phuhfxgajppnxghoeuohzjnbephxghtj;hNhzugohoxhtuljhnohox
cx ,”hpunqhUggu,hyjoongbhejspjyahqsxmhqjangnojychngoxhughustfeuns,hugq
yxxlngbhposunbeohngoxhQxyyc’phaufjk

Ugqhoxhejshp smsnpjhQxyychpuzhoeuohUgguhzuphiy pengbh mhoxhejshjusp,h m
oxhoejhf sychiyuflhsngbyjophxghejshgjflk

“Cjp,”hUgguhzjgohxgkh“Qxhcx hlgxzhzechLnoochqnqg’ohfxtjhoxhqnggjs?
Pej’ph.juyx phxahtjkhNheurjhpmxnyjqhkkkhN’rjhijjghoejhfu pjhxahoeuo
iuyyhijngbhuhoxso sjhoxhejshngpojuqhxahuhmyjup sjkhI ohos yc,hos yc,
no’phgxohtchau yo,hxshxgychtchau yohuhynooyjhino,”hpejhpunq,hqungonyc
qsuzyngbhoejhzxsqph“uhynooyjhinok”

“Xe,hexzhynljhPonruhcx hpunqhoeuo!”hpunqhQxyyc,hyu bengbk

Ugguhzuphe sok

“Xehgx,hxehgx!hN’thgxohPonru,”hpejhpunq,hlgnoongbhejshisxzpkh“Oeuo’p
zechN’thojyyngbhcx ,h. pohijfu pjhNhfx yqhgjrjshyjohtcpjyahqx iohtcpjya
axshughngpougo,”hpunqhUgguk

I ohuohoejhrjschtxtjgohpejhzuph oojsngbhoejhzxsqp,hpejhajyohoeuohoejc
zjsjhgxohos jkhPejhzuphgxohtjsjychqx iongbhejspjya,hpejhajyohjtxonxghuo
oejhoex beohxahRsxgplc,hugqhzuphbxngbhuzuchpxxgjshoeughpejheuqhtjugo,
pntmychoxhurxnqhtjjongbhentk

“Cjp,hPonruhoxyqhtjhcx hqugfjqhoejhtud sluhznoehent,hugqhoeuohejkkkk”

“Cx hfug’ohntubngjhexzhuip sqychnohuyyhfutjhuix okhNhxgychtjugohoxhij
tuofetulngb,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjhnoho sgjqhx ohw nojhqnaajsjgoyckhMxppniyc
ubungpohtchxzghznyykkkk”

Pejhfsntpxgjqhugqhpoxmmjqk

“Xe,hoejchajjyhnohqnsjfoyc?”hpunqhQxyyck

“I ohNhpex yqhijhnghqjpmunshnahoejsjhzjsjhugcoengbhpjsnx phnghnohxghenp
pnqj,”hUgguhngojss mojqhejskh“UgqhNhuthfjsounghnohznyyhuyyhij
axsbxoojg,hugqhLnoochznyyhyjurjhxaaheuongbhtjk”

“Uyyhoejhputj,hUggu,hoxhojyyhcx hoejhos oe,hN’thgxohrjschugvnx phaxs
oenphtussnubjhaxshLnoockhUgqhno’phijoojshnohpex yqhfxtjhoxhgxoengb,hna
ej,hRsxgplc,hnphfumuiyjhxahauyyngbhnghyxrjhznoehcx hnghuhpngbyjhquck”

“Xe,hejurjgp,hoeuohzx yqhijhoxxhpnyyc!”hpunqhUggu,hugqhubunghuhqjjm
ay pehxahmyjup sjhfutjhx ohxghejshaufj,hzejghpejhejusqhoejhnqju,hoeuo
uipxsijqhejs,hm ohngoxhzxsqpkh“UgqhpxhejsjhNhuthbxngbhuzuc,heurngbhtuqj
ughjgjtchxahLnooc,hzexthNhynljqhpxht fe!hUe,hexzhpzjjohpejhnp!hI o
cx ’yyhtuljhnohsnbeo,hQxyyc?hJe?”

Qxyychfx yqhpfusfjychp mmsjpphuhptnyjkhPejhyxrjqhUggu,hi ohpejhjg.xcjq
pjjngbhoeuohpejhoxxheuqhejshzjulgjppjpk

“Ughjgjtc?hOeuohfug’ohijk”

“Nhqnqhpxhzugohcx huyyhoxhfusjhaxshtj,huphNhqxhaxshcx ,hugqhgxzhNhfusj
axshcx htxsjhoeughjrjs,”hpunqhUggu,hznoehojusphnghejshjcjpkh“Ue,hexz
pnyychNhuthoxquc!”

Pejhmuppjqhejsheugqljsfenjahxrjshejshaufjhugqhijbughqsjppngbk

UohoejhrjschtxtjgohxahpousongbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehussnrjq,hyuoj,hsxpc
ugqhbxxq-e txsjq,hptjyyngbhxahzngjhugqhfnbuspk

Uggu’phjtxonxguynpthngajfojqhQxyyc,hugqhzejghpejhjtisufjqhejs
pnpojs-ng-yuzhaxshoejhyupohontj,hpejhzenpmjsjq:h“Sjtjtijs,hUggu,hzeuo
cx ’rjhqxgjhaxshtj—NhpeuyyhgjrjshaxsbjokhUgqhsjtjtijshoeuohNhyxrjhcx ,
ugqhpeuyyhuyzucphyxrjhcx huphtchqjusjpohasnjgq!”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzec,”hpunqhUggu,hlnppngbhejshugqhenqngbhejshojuspk

“Cx h gqjspoxxqhtj,hugqhcx h gqjspougqkhBxxq-icj,htchqusyngb!”


Feumojsh29

“Fxtj,hno’phuyyhxrjs,hugqhoeuglhBxq!”hzuphoejhanspohoex beohoeuohfutj
oxhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hzejghpejheuqhpunqhbxxq-icjhaxshoejhyupohontjhoxhejs
isxoejs,hzexheuqhpoxxqhiyxflngbh mhoejhjgosugfjhoxhoejhfussnubjhonyy
oejhoensqhijyyhsugbkhPejhpuohqxzghxghejshyx gbjhijpnqjhUgg pelu,hugq
yxxljqhuix ohejshnghoejhoznynbeohxahoejhpyjjmngb-fussnubjkh“OeuglhBxq!
oxtxssxzhNhpeuyyhpjjhPjscxdeuhugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhtchynaj
znyyhbxhxghnghoejhxyqhzuc,huyyhgnfjhugqhuph p uyk”

Ponyyhnghoejhputjhugvnx phasutjhxahtngq,huphpejheuqhijjghuyyhoeuohquc,
Ugguhoxxlhmyjup sjhnghussugbngbhejspjyahaxshoejh.x sgjchznoehbsjuo
fusjkhZnoehejshynooyjhqjaoheugqphpejhxmjgjqhugqhpe ohejshynooyjhsjq
iub,hoxxlhx ohuhf penxg,hyunqhnohxghejshlgjjp,hugqhfusja yychzsummngb
 mhejshajjo,hpjooyjqhejspjyahfxtaxsouiyckhUghngruynqhyuqcheuqhuysjuqc
yunghqxzghoxhpyjjmkhOzxhxoejshyuqnjphijbughouylngbhoxhUggu,hugqhuhpox o
jyqjsychyuqcho fljqh mhejshajjo,hugqhtuqjhxipjsruonxgphuix ohoej
ejuongbhxahoejhosungkhUgguhugpzjsjqhuhajzhzxsqp,hi ohgxohaxsjpjjngbhugc
jgojsoungtjgohasxthoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hpejhupljqhUgg peluhoxhbjohuhyutm,
exxljqhnohxgoxhoejhusthxahejshpjuo,hugqhoxxlhasxthejshiubhuhmumjs-lgnaj
ugqhughJgbynpehgxrjykhUohanspohejshsjuqngbhtuqjhgxhmsxbsjppkhOejha pp
ugqhi poyjhzjsjhqnpo singb;hoejghzejghoejhosungheuqhpousojq,hpejhfx yq
gxohejymhynpojgngbhoxhoejhgxnpjp;hoejghoejhpgxzhijuongbhxghoejhyjao
zngqxzhugqhponflngbhoxhoejhmugj,hugqhoejhpnbeohxahoejht aayjqhb usq
muppngbhic,hfxrjsjqhznoehpgxzhxghxgjhpnqj,hugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxgphuix o
oejhojssniyjhpgxzpoxsthsubngbhx opnqj,hqnposufojqhejshuoojgonxgk
Ausoejshxg,hnohzuphfxgong uyychoejhputjhubunghugqhubung:hoejhputj
peulngbhugqhsuooyngb,hoejhputjhpgxzhxghoejhzngqxz,hoejhputjhsumnq
osugpnonxgphasxthpojutngbhejuohoxhfxyq,hugqhiuflhubunghoxhejuo,hoej
putjhmuppngbhbyntmpjphxahoejhputjhanb sjphnghoejhoznynbeo,hugqhoejhputj
rxnfjp,hugqhUgguhijbughoxhsjuqhugqhoxh gqjspougqhzeuohpejhsjuqk
Ugg peluhzuphuysjuqchqxdngb,hoejhsjqhiubhxghejshyum,hfy ofejqhichejs
isxuqheugqp,hnghbyxrjp,hxahzenfehxgjhzuphoxsgkhUgguhUsluqcjrguhsjuqhugq
 gqjspoxxq,hi ohnohzuphqnpoupoja yhoxhejshoxhsjuq,hoeuohnp,hoxhaxyyxz
oejhsjayjfonxghxahxoejshmjxmyj’phynrjpkhPejheuqhoxxhbsjuohuhqjpnsjhox
ynrjhejspjyakhNahpejhsjuqhoeuohoejhejsxngjhxahoejhgxrjyhzuphg spngbhu
pnflhtug,hpejhyxgbjqhoxhtxrjhznoehgxnpjyjpphpojmphuix ohoejhsxxthxahu
pnflhtug;hnahpejhsjuqhxahuhtjtijshxahMusynutjgohtulngbhuhpmjjfe,hpej
yxgbjqhoxhijhqjynrjsngbhoejhpmjjfe;hnahpejhsjuqhxahexzhYuqchTuscheuq
snqqjghuaojshoejhex gqp,hugqheuqhmsxrxljqhejshpnpojs-ng-yuz,hugqheuq
p smsnpjqhjrjscxgjhichejshixyqgjpp,hpejhoxxhznpejqhoxhijhqxngbhoej
putjkhI ohoejsjhzuphgxhfeugfjhxahqxngbhugcoengb;hugqhoznpongbhoej
ptxxoehmumjs-lgnajhnghejshynooyjheugqp,hpejhaxsfjqhejspjyahoxhsjuqk

OejhejsxhxahoejhgxrjyhzuphuysjuqchuytxpohsjufengbhenphJgbynpe
eummngjpp,huhiusxgjofchugqhughjpouoj,hugqhUgguhzuphajjyngbhuhqjpnsjhox
bxhznoehenthoxhoejhjpouoj,hzejghpejhp qqjgychajyohoeuoh_ej_hx beohox
ajjyhupeutjq,hugqhoeuohpejhzuphupeutjqhxahoejhputjhoengbkhI ohzeuoheuq
ejhoxhijhupeutjqhxa?h“ZeuoheurjhNhoxhijhupeutjqhxa?”hpejhupljqhejspjya
nghng. sjqhp smsnpjkhPejhyunqhqxzghoejhixxlhugqhpuglhubungpohoejhiufl
xahoejhfeuns,honbeoychbsnmmngbhoejhmumjs-f oojshnghixoeheugqpkhOejsj
zuphgxoengbkhPejhzjgohxrjshuyyhejshTxpfxzhsjfxyyjfonxgpkhUyyhzjsjhbxxq,
myjupugokhPejhsjtjtijsjqhoejhiuyy,hsjtjtijsjqhRsxgplchugqhenphaufjhxa
pyurnpehuqxsuonxg,hsjtjtijsjqhuyyhejshfxgq fohznoehent:hoejsjhzup
gxoengbhpeutja ykhUgqhaxshuyyhoeuo,huohoejhputjhmxngohnghejshtjtxsnjp,
oejhajjyngbhxahpeutjhzuphngojgpnanjq,huphoex behpxtjhnggjshrxnfj,h. po
uohoejhmxngohzejghpejhoex beohxahRsxgplc,hzjsjhpucngbhoxhejs,h“Zust,
rjschzust,hexok”h“Zjyy,hzeuohnphno?”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyahsjpxy ojyc,
penaongbhejshpjuohnghoejhyx gbjkh“Zeuohqxjphnohtjug?hUthNhuasunqhox
yxxlhnohposunbeohnghoejhaufj?hZec,hzeuohnphno?hFughnohijhoeuohijozjjg
tjhugqhoenphxaanfjshixchoejsjhjvnpo,hxshfughjvnpo,hugchxoejshsjyuonxgp
oeughp fehuphusjhfxttxghznoehjrjschufw ungougfj?”hPejhyu bejq
fxgojtmo x pychugqhoxxlh mhejshixxlhubung;hi ohgxzhpejhzuphqjangnojyc
 guiyjhoxhaxyyxzhzeuohpejhsjuqkhPejhmuppjqhoejhmumjs-lgnajhxrjshoej
zngqxzhmugj,hoejghyunqhnophptxxoe,hfxxyhp saufjhoxhejshfejjl,hugq
uytxpohyu bejqhuyx qhuohoejhajjyngbhxahqjynbeohoeuohuyyhuohxgfjhznoex o
fu pjhfutjhxrjshejskhPejhajyohuphoex behejshgjsrjphzjsjhposngbphijngb
posungjqhonbeojshugqhonbeojshxghpxtjhpxsohxahpfsjzngbhmjbkhPejhajyohejs
jcjphxmjgngbhznqjshugqhznqjs,hejshangbjsphugqhoxjphoznofengbhgjsrx pyc,
pxtjoengbhznoenghxmmsjppngbhejshisjuoengb,hzenyjhuyyhpeumjphugqhpx gqp
pjjtjqhnghoejh gfjsoungheuya-ynbeohoxhposnljhejshznoeh guff poxtjq
rnrnqgjppkhTxtjgophxahqx iohzjsjhfxgong uyychfxtngbh mxghejs,hzejghpej
zuph gfjsounghzejoejshoejhosunghzjsjhbxngbhaxszusqphxshiuflzusqp,hxs
zjsjhpougqngbhponyyhuyoxbjoejs;hzejoejshnohzjsjhUgg peluhuohejshpnqjhxs
uhposugbjskh“Zeuo’phoeuohxghoejhusthxahoejhfeuns,huha shfyxulhxshpxtj
ijupo?hUgqhzeuohuthNhtcpjya?hTcpjyahxshpxtjhxoejshzxtug?”hPejhzup
uasunqhxahbnrngbhzuchoxhoenphqjynsn tkhI ohpxtjoengbhqsjzhejshoxzusqp
no,hugqhpejhfx yqhcnjyqhoxhnohxshsjpnpohnohuohznyykhPejhbxoh mhoxhsx pj
ejspjya,hugqhpynmmjqhxaahejshmyunqhugqhoejhfumjhxahejshzusthqsjppkhAxs
uhtxtjgohpejhsjbungjqhejshpjya-mxppjppnxg,hugqhsjuyndjqhoeuohoejhoeng
mjupugohzexheuqhfxtjhnghzjusngbhuhyxgbhxrjsfxuo,hznoehi ooxgphtnppngb
asxthno,hzuphoejhpoxrjejuojs,hoeuohejhzuphyxxlngbhuohoejhoejstxtjojs,
oeuohnohzuphoejhzngqhugqhpgxzhi spongbhnghuaojshenthuohoejhqxxs;hi o
oejghjrjscoengbhbsjzhiy ssjqhubungkkkkhOeuohmjupugohznoehoejhyxgbhzunpo
pjjtjqhoxhijhbguzngbhpxtjoengbhxghoejhzuyy,hoejhxyqhyuqchijbug
posjofengbhejshyjbphoejhzexyjhyjgboehxahoejhfussnubj,hugqhanyyngbhno
znoehuhiyuflhfyx q;hoejghoejsjhzuphuhajusa yhpesnjlngbhugqhiugbngb,hup
oex behpxtjxgjhzjsjhijngbhoxsghoxhmnjfjp;hoejghoejsjhzuphuhiyngqngb
quddyjhxahsjqhansjhijaxsjhejshjcjphugqhuhzuyyhpjjtjqhoxhsnpjh mhugq
enqjhjrjscoengbkhUgguhajyohuphoex behpejhzjsjhpnglngbhqxzgkhI ohnohzup
gxohojssniyj,hi ohqjynbeoa ykhOejhrxnfjhxahuhtught aayjqh mhugqhfxrjsjq
znoehpgxzhpex ojqhpxtjoengbhnghejshjuskhPejhbxoh mhugqhm yyjqhejspjya
oxbjoejs;hpejhsjuyndjqhoeuohoejcheuqhsjufejqhuhpouonxghugqhoeuohoenp
zuphoejhb usqkhPejhupljqhUgg peluhoxheugqhejshoejhfumjhpejheuqhouljg
xaahugqhejshpeuzy,hm ohoejthxghugqhtxrjqhoxzusqphoejhqxxsk

“Qxhcx hznpehoxhbjohx o?”hupljqhUgg peluk

“Cjp,hNhzugohuhynooyjhunskhNo’phrjschexohnghejsjk”hUgqhpejhxmjgjqhoej
qxxskhOejhqsnrngbhpgxzhugqhoejhzngqhs pejqhoxhtjjohejshugqhpos bbyjq
znoehejshxrjshoejhqxxskhI ohpejhjg.xcjqhoejhpos bbyjk

Pejhxmjgjqhoejhqxxshugqhzjgohx okhOejhzngqhpjjtjqhuphoex behycngbhng
zunohaxshejs;hznoehbyjja yhzenpoyjhnohosnjqhoxhpguofehejsh mhugqhijus
ejshxaa,hi ohpejhfy gbhoxhoejhfxyqhqxxshmxpo,hugqhexyqngbhejshplnsohbxo
qxzghxgoxhoejhmyuoaxsthugqh gqjshoejhpejyojshxahoejhfussnubjpkhOejhzngq
euqhijjghmxzjsa yhxghoejhpojmp,hi ohxghoejhmyuoaxst,h gqjshoejhyjjhxa
oejhfussnubjp,hoejsjhzuphuhy yykhZnoehjg.xctjgohpejhqsjzhqjjmhisjuoep
xahoejhasxdjg,hpgxzchuns,hugqhpougqngbhgjushoejhfussnubjhyxxljqhuix o
oejhmyuoaxsthugqhoejhynbeojqhpouonxgk


Feumojsh30

Oejhsubngbhojtmjpohs pejqhzenpoyngbhijozjjghoejhzejjyphxahoej
fussnubjp,huix ohoejhpfuaaxyqngb,hugqhsx gqhoejhfxsgjshxahoejhpouonxgk
Oejhfussnubjp,hmxpop,hmjxmyj,hjrjscoengbhoeuohzuphoxhijhpjjghzup
fxrjsjqhznoehpgxzhxghxgjhpnqj,hugqhzuphbjoongbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhoenflyc
fxrjsjqkhAxshuhtxtjgohoejsjhzx yqhfxtjhuhy yyhnghoejhpoxst,hi ohoejghno
zx yqhpzxxmhqxzghubunghznoehp fehxgpyu beophoeuohnohpjjtjqhntmxppniyj
oxhpougqhubungpohnokhTjugzenyjhtjghsughoxhugqhasx,houylngbhtjssnyc
oxbjoejs,hoejnshpojmphfsuflyngbhxghoejhmyuoaxsthuphoejchfxgong uyyc
xmjgjqhugqhfyxpjqhoejhinbhqxxspkhOejhijgohpeuqxzhxahuhtughbynqjqhichuo
ejshajjo,hugqhpejhejusqhpx gqphxahuheuttjsh mxghnsxgkh“Eugqhxrjshoeuo
ojyjbsut!”hfutjhughugbschrxnfjhx ohxahoejhpoxstchquslgjpphxghoejhxoejs
pnqjkh“Oenphzuc!hGxkh28!”hpjrjsuyhqnaajsjgohrxnfjphpex ojqhubung,hugq
t aayjqhanb sjphsughichfxrjsjqhznoehpgxzkhOzxhbjgoyjtjghznoehynbeojq
fnbusjoojphmuppjqhichejskhPejhqsjzhxgjhtxsjhqjjmhisjuoehxahoejhasjpe
uns,hugqheuqh. pohm ohejsheugqhx ohxahejsht aahoxhouljhexyqhxahoejhqxxs
mxpohugqhbjohiuflhngoxhoejhfussnubj,hzejghugxoejshtughnghuhtnynousc
xrjsfxuo,hw nojhfyxpjhijpnqjhejs,hpojmmjqhijozjjghejshugqhoej
aynfljsngbhynbeohxahoejhyutmhmxpokhPejhyxxljqhsx gq,hugqhoejhputj
ngpougohsjfxbgndjqhRsxgplc’phaufjkhM oongbhenpheugqhoxhoejhmjulhxahenp
fum,hejhixzjqhoxhejshugqhupljq,hZuphoejsjhugcoengbhpejhzugojq?hFx yqhej
ijhxahugchpjsrnfjhoxhejs?hPejhbudjqhsuoejshuhyxgbhzenyjhuohenthznoex o
ugpzjsngb,hugq,hnghpmnojhxahoejhpeuqxzhnghzenfehejhzuphpougqngb,hpej
puz,hxshaugfnjqhpejhpuz,hixoehoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphaufjhugqhenphjcjpk
Nohzuphubunghoeuohjvmsjppnxghxahsjrjsjgonuyhjfpoupchzenfeheuqhpxhzxsljq
 mxghejshoejhquchijaxsjkhTxsjhoeughxgfjhpejheuqhoxyqhejspjyahq sngbhoej
mupohajzhqucp,hugqhubunghxgychuhajzhtxtjgophijaxsj,hoeuohRsxgplchzup
axshejshxgychxgjhxahoejhe gqsjqphxahcx gbhtjg,haxsjrjshjvufoychoej
putj,hoeuohusjhtjohjrjsczejsj,hoeuohpejhzx yqhgjrjshuyyxzhejspjyahox
ijpoxzhuhoex beoh mxghentkhI ohgxzhuohoejhanspohngpougohxahtjjongbhent,
pejhzuphpjndjqhichuhajjyngbhxah.xca yhmsnqjkhPejheuqhgxhgjjqhoxhuplhzec
ejheuqhfxtjkhPejhlgjzhuphfjsoungychuphnahejheuqhoxyqhejshoeuohejhzup
ejsjhoxhijhzejsjhpejhzupk

“Nhqnqg’ohlgxzhcx hzjsjhbxngbkhZeuohusjhcx hfxtngbhaxs?”hpejhpunq,
yjoongbhauyyhoejheugqhznoehzenfehpejheuqhbsupmjqhoejhqxxshmxpokhUgq
nssjmsjppniyjhqjynbeohugqhjubjsgjpphpexgjhnghejshaufjk

“ZeuohuthNhfxtngbhaxs?”hejhsjmjuojq,hyxxlngbhposunbeohngoxhejshjcjpk
“Cx hlgxzhoeuohNheurjhfxtjhoxhijhzejsjhcx husj,”hejhpunq;h“Nhfug’ohejym
nok”

Uohoeuohtxtjgohoejhzngq,huphnohzjsj,hp stx gongbhuyyhxipoufyjp,hpjgo
oejhpgxzhaycngbhasxthoejhfussnubjhsxxap,hugqhfyugljqhpxtjhpejjohxahnsxg
noheuqhoxsghxaa,hzenyjhoejhexuspjhzenpoyjhxahoejhjgbngjhsxusjqhng
asxgo,hmyungonrjychugqhbyxxtnyckhUyyhoejhuza ygjpphxahoejhpoxsthpjjtjq
oxhejshtxsjhpmyjgqnqhgxzkhEjheuqhpunqhzeuohejshpx yhyxgbjqhoxhejus,
oex behpejhajusjqhnohznoehejshsjupxgkhPejhtuqjhgxhugpzjs,hugqhnghejs
aufjhejhpuzhfxgaynfok

“Axsbnrjhtj,hnahcx hqnpynljhzeuohNhpunq,”hejhpunqhe tiyck

Ejheuqhpmxljghfx sojx pyc,hqjajsjgonuyyc,hcjohpxhanstyc,hpxhpo iixsgyc,
oeuohaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhpejhfx yqhtuljhgxhugpzjsk

“No’phzsxgb,hzeuohcx hpuc,hugqhNhijbhcx ,hnahcx ’sjhuhbxxqhtug,hox
axsbjohzeuohcx ’rjhpunq,huphNhaxsbjohno,”hpejhpunqhuohyupok

“Gxohxgjhzxsq,hgxohxgjhbjpo sjhxahcx sphpeuyyhN,hfx yqhN,hjrjs
axsbjokkkk”

“Jgx be,hjgx be!”hpejhfsnjqhoscngbhuppnq x pychoxhbnrjhuhpojsg
jvmsjppnxghoxhejshaufj,hngoxhzenfehejhzuphbudngbhbsjjqnyckhUgq
fy ofengbhuohoejhfxyqhqxxshmxpo,hpejhfyutijsjqh mhoejhpojmphugqhbxo
sumnqychngoxhoejhfxssnqxshxahoejhfussnubjkhI ohnghoejhynooyjhfxssnqxs
pejhmu pjq,hbxngbhxrjshnghejshntubnguonxghzeuoheuqheummjgjqkhOex behpej
fx yqhgxohsjfuyyhejshxzghzxsqphxshenp,hpejhsjuyndjqhngpongfonrjychoeuo
oejhtxtjgouschfxgrjspuonxgheuqhisx beohoejthajusa yychfyxpjs;hugqhpej
zuphmugnf-posnfljghugqhiynppa yhuohnokhUaojshpougqngbhponyyhuhajz
pjfxgqp,hpejhzjgohngoxhoejhfussnubjhugqhpuohqxzghnghejshmyufjkhOej
xrjsposungjqhfxgqnonxghzenfeheuqhoxstjgojqhejshijaxsjhqnqhgxohxgychfxtj
iufl,hi ohzuphngojgpnanjq,hugqhsjufejqhp fehuhmnofehoeuohpejhzuphuasunq
jrjschtng ojhoeuohpxtjoengbhzx yqhpgumhznoenghejshasxthoejhjvfjppnrj
ojgpnxgkhPejhqnqhgxohpyjjmhuyyhgnbeokhI ohnghoeuohgjsrx phojgpnxg,hugq
nghoejhrnpnxgphoeuohanyyjqhejshntubnguonxg,hoejsjhzuphgxoengb
qnpubsjjuiyjhxshbyxxtc:hxghoejhfxgosuschoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhiynppa y,
byxzngb,hugqhjvenyusuongbkhOxzusqphtxsgngbhUgguhpuglhngoxhuhqxdj,
pnoongbhnghejshmyufj,hugqhzejghpejhzuljqhnohzuphqucynbeohugqhoejhosung
zuphgjushMjojspi sbkhUohxgfjhoex beophxahextj,hxahe piugqhugqhxahpxg,
ugqhoejhqjounyphxahoeuohquchugqhoejhaxyyxzngbhfutjh mxghejsk

UohMjojspi sb,huphpxxghuphoejhosunghpoxmmjqhugqhpejhbxohx o,hoejhanspo
mjspxghoeuohuoosufojqhejshuoojgonxghzuphejshe piugqkh“Xe,htjsfc!hzechqx
enphjusphyxxlhynljhoeuo?”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhuohenphasnbnqhugq
ntmxpngbhanb sj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoejhjusphoeuohpos flhejshuohoejhtxtjgo
uphmsxmmngbh mhoejhisnthxahenphsx gqheuokhFuofengbhpnbeohxahejs,hej
futjhoxhtjjohejs,henphynmphauyyngbhngoxhoejnsheuino uyhpusfuponfhptnyj,
ugqhenphinb,honsjqhjcjphyxxlngbhposunbeohuohejskhUgh gmyjupugo
pjgpuonxghbsnmmjqhuohejshejusohzejghpejhtjohenphxiponguojhugqhzjusc
byugfj,huphoex behpejheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhpjjhenthqnaajsjgokhPejhzup
jpmjfnuyychpos flhichoejhajjyngbhxahqnppuonpaufonxghznoehejspjyahoeuo
pejhjvmjsnjgfjqhxghtjjongbhentkhOeuohajjyngbhzuphughngontuoj,hautnynus
ajjyngb,hynljhuhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahecmxfsnpc,hzenfehpejhjvmjsnjgfjqhng
ejshsjyuonxgphznoehejshe piugqkhI ohenoejsoxhpejheuqhgxohouljghgxojhxa
oejhajjyngb,hgxzhpejhzuphfyjusychugqhmunga yychuzusjhxahnok

“Cjp,huphcx hpjj,hcx shojgqjshpmx pj,huphqjrxojqhuphoejhanspohcjus
uaojshtussnubj,hi sgjqhznoehntmuonjgfjhoxhpjjhcx ,”hejhpunqhnghenp
qjynijsuoj,henbe-mnofejqhrxnfj,hugqhnghoeuohoxgjhzenfehejhuytxpohuyzucp
oxxlhznoehejs,huhoxgjhxah.jjsngbhuohugcxgjhzexhpex yqhpuchnghjusgjpo
zeuohejhpunqk

“NphPjscxdeuhw nojhzjyy?”hpejhupljqk

“Ugqhnphoenphuyyhoejhsjzusq,”hpunqhej,h“axshtchusqxs?hEj’phw noj
zjyykkkk”


Feumojsh31

RsxgplcheuqhgxohjrjghosnjqhoxhpyjjmhuyyhoeuohgnbeokhEjhpuohnghenp
ustfeuns,hyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsjhenthxshpfuggngbhoejhmjxmyjhzexhbxohng
ugqhx okhNahejheuqhngqjjqhxghmsjrnx phxffupnxgphpos flhugqhntmsjppjq
mjxmyjhzexhqnqhgxohlgxzhenthichenphunshxah gejpnouongbhfxtmxp sj,hej
pjjtjqhgxzhtxsjheu beochugqhpjya-mxppjppjqhoeughjrjskhEjhyxxljqhuo
mjxmyjhuphnahoejchzjsjhoengbpkhUhgjsrx phcx gbhtug,huhfyjslhnghuhyuz
fx so,hpnoongbhxmmxpnojhent,heuojqhenthaxshoeuohyxxlkhOejhcx gbhtug
upljqhenthaxshuhynbeo,hugqhjgojsjqhngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehent,hugqhjrjg
m pejqhubungpohent,hoxhtuljhenthajjyhoeuohejhzuphgxohuhoengb,hi ohu
mjspxgkhI ohRsxgplchbudjqhuohenthjvufoychuphejhqnqhuohoejhyutm,hugqhoej
cx gbhtughtuqjhuhzschaufj,hajjyngbhoeuohejhzuphyxpngbhenp
pjya-mxppjppnxgh gqjshoejhxmmsjppnxghxahoenphsja puyhoxhsjfxbgndjhent
uphuhmjspxgk

RsxgplchpuzhgxoengbhugqhgxhxgjkhEjhajyohentpjyahuhlngb,hgxohijfu pjhej
ijynjrjqhoeuohejheuqhtuqjhughntmsjppnxghxghUggu—ejhqnqhgxohcjohijynjrj
oeuo,—i ohijfu pjhoejhntmsjppnxghpejheuqhtuqjhxghenthburjhentheummngjpp
ugqhmsnqjk

Zeuohzx yqhfxtjhxahnohuyyhejhqnqhgxohlgxz,hejhqnqhgxohjrjghoenglkhEj
ajyohoeuohuyyhenphaxsfjp,henoejsoxhqnppnmuojq,hzupojq,hzjsjhfjgojsjqhxg
xgjhoengb,hugqhijgohznoehajusa yhjgjsbchxghxgjhiynppa yhbxuykhUgqhej
zupheummchuohnokhEjhlgjzhxgychoeuohejheuqhoxyqhejshoejhos oe,hoeuohej
euqhfxtjhzejsjhpejhzup,hoeuohuyyhoejheummngjpphxahenphynaj,hoejhxgyc
tjugngbhnghynajhaxshent,hgxzhyuchnghpjjngbhugqhejusngbhejskhUgqhzejghej
bxohx ohxahoejhfussnubjhuohIxyxbxruhoxhbjohpxtjhpjyodjshzuojs,hugq
fu beohpnbeohxahUggu,hngrxy gousnychenphanspohzxsqheuqhoxyqhejsh. po
zeuohejhoex beokhUgqhejhzuphbyuqhejheuqhoxyqhejshno,hoeuohpejhlgjzhno
gxzhugqhzuphoenglngbhxahnokhEjhqnqhgxohpyjjmhuyyhgnbeokhZejghejhzup
iuflhnghoejhfussnubj,hejhljmoh gfjupngbychbxngbhxrjshjrjschmxpnonxghng
zenfehejheuqhpjjghejs,hjrjschzxsqhpejheuqh oojsjq,hugqhijaxsjhenp
augfc,htulngbhenphejusohaungohznoehjtxonxg,hayxuojqhmnfo sjphxahu
mxppniyjha o sjk

Zejghejhbxohx ohxahoejhosunghuohMjojspi sb,hejhajyohuaojshenphpyjjmyjpp
gnbeohuphljjghugqhasjpehuphuaojshuhfxyqhiuoekhEjhmu pjqhgjushenp
fxtmusotjgo,hzunongbhaxshejshoxhbjohx okh“Xgfjhtxsj,”hejhpunqhox
entpjya,hptnyngbh gfxgpfnx pyc,h“xgfjhtxsjhNhpeuyyhpjjhejshzuyl,hejs
aufj;hpejhznyyhpuchpxtjoengb,ho sghejshejuq,hbyugfj,hptnyj,htucijk”hI o
ijaxsjhejhfu beohpnbeohxahejs,hejhpuzhejshe piugq,hzexthoej
pouonxg-tupojshzuphqjajsjgonuyychjpfxsongbhoesx behoejhfsxzqkh“Ue,hcjp!
Oejhe piugqk”hXgychgxzhaxshoejhanspohontjhqnqhRsxgplchsjuyndjhfyjusyc
oejhaufohoeuohoejsjhzuphuhmjspxghuooufejqhoxhejs,huhe piugqkhEjhlgjz
oeuohpejheuqhuhe piugq,hi oheuqheusqychijynjrjqhnghenphjvnpojgfj,hugq
xgychgxzha yychijynjrjqhnghent,hznoehenphejuqhugqhpex yqjsp,hugqhenp
yjbphfyuqhnghiyuflhosx pjsp;hjpmjfnuyychzejghejhpuzhoenphe piugqhfuytyc
ouljhejshusthznoehuhpjgpjhxahmsxmjsock

PjjngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehznoehenphMjojspi sbhaufjhugqhpjrjsjyc
pjya-fxganqjgohanb sj,hnghenphsx gqheuo,hznoehenphsuoejshmsxtngjgo
pmngj,hejhijynjrjqhnghent,hugqhzuphuzusjhxahuhqnpubsjjuiyjhpjgpuonxg,
p fehuphuhtughtnbeohajjyhoxso sjqhichoenspo,hzex,hxghsjufengbhuhpmsngb,
pex yqhangqhuhqxb,huhpejjm,hxshuhmnb,hzexheuphqs glhxahnohugqht qqnjq
oejhzuojskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phtuggjshxahzuylngb,hznoehuhpzngbhxa
oejhenmphugqhayuohajjo,hmusonf yusychuggxcjqhRsxgplckhEjhfx yq
sjfxbgndjhnghgxhxgjhi ohentpjyahughngq inouiyjhsnbeohoxhyxrjhejskhI o
pejhzuphponyyhoejhputj,hugqhoejhpnbeohxahejshuaajfojqhenthoejhputjhzuc,
mecpnfuyychsjrnrngbhent,hponssngbhent,hugqhanyyngbhenphpx yhznoe
sumo sjkhEjhoxyqhenphBjstughruyjo,hzexhsugh mhoxhenthasxthoejhpjfxgq
fyupp,hoxhouljhenphoengbphugqhbxhxg,hugqhejhentpjyahzjgoh mhoxhejskhEj
puzhoejhanspohtjjongbhijozjjghoejhe piugqhugqhznaj,hugqhgxojqhznoehu
yxrjs’phngpnbeohoejhpnbgphxahpynbeohsjpjsrjhznoehzenfehpejhpmxljhoxhejs
e piugqkh“Gx,hpejhqxjphgxohyxrjhenthugqhfuggxohyxrjhent,”hejhqjfnqjqhox
entpjyak

UohoejhtxtjgohzejghejhzuphummsxufengbhUgguhUsluqcjrguhejhgxonfjqhoxx
znoeh.xchoeuohpejhzuphfxgpfnx phxahenphijngbhgjus,hugqhyxxljqhsx gq,
ugqhpjjngbhent,ho sgjqhubunghoxhejshe piugqk

“Eurjhcx hmuppjqhuhbxxqhgnbeo?”hejhupljq,hixzngbhoxhejshugqhejshe piugq
oxbjoejs,hugqhyjurngbhnoh mhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxhuffjmohoejhixz
xghenphxzghuffx go,hugqhoxhsjfxbgndjhnohxshgxo,huphejhtnbeohpjjhanok

“Oeuglhcx ,hrjschbxxq,”hpejhugpzjsjqk

Ejshaufjhyxxljqhzjusc,hugqhoejsjhzuphgxohoeuohmyuchxahjubjsgjpphnghno,
mjjmngbhx ohnghejshptnyjhugqhejshjcjp;hi ohaxshuhpngbyjhngpougo,huphpej
byugfjqhuohent,hoejsjhzuphuhayupehxahpxtjoengbhnghejshjcjp,hugq
uyoex behoejhayupehqnjqhuzuchuohxgfj,hejhzupheummchaxshoeuohtxtjgokhPej
byugfjqhuohejshe piugqhoxhangqhx ohzejoejshejhlgjzhRsxgplckhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehyxxljqhuohRsxgplchznoehqnpmyjup sj,hrub jychsjfuyyngb
zexhoenphzupkhRsxgplc’phfxtmxp sjhugqhpjya-fxganqjgfjhejsjhpos fl,hynlj
uhpfcoejhubungpohuhpoxgj,h mxghoejhfxyqhpjya-fxganqjgfjhxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

“Fx gohRsxgplc,”hpunqhUgguk

“Ue!hZjhusjhufw ungojq,hNhijynjrj,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
ngqnaajsjgoyc,hbnrngbhenpheugqk

“Cx hpjohxaahznoehoejhtxoejshugqhcx hsjo sghznoehoejhpxg,”hejhpunq,
usonf yuongbhjufehpcyyuiyj,huphoex behjufehzjsjhuhpjmusuojhaurxshejhzup
ijpoxzngbk

“Cx ’sjhiuflhasxthyjurj,hNhp mmxpj?”hejhpunq,hugqhznoex ohzunongbhaxshu
sjmyc,hejho sgjqhoxhenphznajhnghenph.jpongbhoxgj:h“Zjyy,hzjsjhuhbsjuo
tugchojusphpejqhuohTxpfxzhuohmusongb?”

IchuqqsjppngbhenphznajhynljhoenphejhburjhRsxgplchoxh gqjspougqhoeuohej
znpejqhoxhijhyjaohuyxgj,hugq,ho sgngbhpynbeoychoxzusqphent,hejhox fejq
enpheuo;hi ohRsxgplcho sgjqhoxhUgguhUsluqcjrguk

“NhexmjhNhtucheurjhoejhexgxshxahfuyyngbhxghcx ,”hejhpunqk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbyugfjqhznoehenphzjuschjcjphuohRsxgplck

“Qjynbeojq,”hejhpunqhfxyqyckh“XghTxgqucphzj’sjhuohextjkhTxpo
axso guoj,”hejhpunqhoxhenphznaj,hqnptnppngbhRsxgplchuyoxbjoejs,h“oeuohN
pex yqh. poheurjheuyahughex shoxhtjjohcx ,hpxhoeuohNhfughmsxrjhtc
qjrxonxg,”hejhzjgohxghnghoejhputjh.jpongbhoxgjk

“Cx hyuchoxxht fehposjpphxghcx shqjrxonxghaxshtjhoxhruy jhnoht fe,”hpej
sjpmxgqjqhnghoejhputjh.jpongbhoxgj,hngrxy gousnychynpojgngbhoxhoej
px gqhxahRsxgplc’phpojmphijengqhoejtkh“I ohzeuoheuphnohoxhqxhznoehtj?”
pejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hugqhpejhijbughuplngbhejshe piugqhexzhPjscxdeuheuq
bxohxghznoex ohejsk

“Xe,hfumnouyyc!hTusnjoojhpucphejheuphijjghrjschbxxq,hUgqhkkkhNht po
qnpummxngohcx hkkkhi ohejheuphgxohtnppjqhcx huphcx she piugqheupkhI o
xgfjhtxsjh_tjsfn,_htchqjus,haxshbnrngbhtjhuhquckhX shqjush_Putxrus_
znyyhijhqjynbeojqk”h(Ejh pjqhoxhfuyyhoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hzjyy
lgxzghnghpxfnjoc,huhputxrus,hijfu pjhpejhzuphuyzucphi iiyngbhxrjshznoe
jvfnojtjgok)h“Pejheuphijjghfxgong uyychuplngbhuaojshcx khUgq,hqxhcx 
lgxz,hnahNhtuchrjgo sjhoxhuqrnpjhcx ,hcx hpex yqhbxhugqhpjjhejshoxquck
Cx hlgxzhexzhpejhouljphjrjscoengbhoxhejusokh. pohgxz,hznoehuyyhejshxzg
fusjp,hpej’phugvnx phuix ohoejhXiyxgplcphijngbhisx beohoxbjoejsk”

OejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzuphuhasnjgqhxahejshe piugq’p,hugqhoej
fjgojshxahoeuohxgjhxahoejhfxojsnjphxahoejhMjojspi sbhzxsyqhznoehzenfe
Ugguhzup,hoesx behejshe piugq,hnghoejhfyxpjpohsjyuonxgpk

“I ohcx hlgxzhNhzsxojhoxhejs?”

“Ponyyhpej’yyhzugohoxhejushqjounypkhBxhugqhpjjhejs,hnahcx ’sjhgxohoxx
onsjq,htchqjuskhZjyy,hLxgqsuochznyyhouljhcx hnghoejhfussnubj,hzenyjhN
bxhoxhtchfxttnoojjkhNhpeuyyhgxohijhuyxgjhuohqnggjshubung,”hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohxg,hgxhyxgbjshnghuhpusfuponfhoxgjkh“Cx hzx yqg’o
ijynjrjhexzhN’rjhtnppjqkkkk”hUgqhznoehuhyxgbhmsjpp sjhxahejsheugqhugqhu
tjugngbhptnyj,hejhm ohejshnghejshfussnubjk


Feumojsh32

OejhanspohmjspxghoxhtjjohUgguhuohextjhzuphejshpxgkhEjhqupejqhqxzghoej
pounsphoxhejs,hnghpmnojhxahoejhbxrjsgjpp’phfuyy,hugqhznoehqjpmjsuojh.xc
pesnjljq:h“Txoejs!htxoejs!”hS ggngbh mhoxhejs,hejhe gbhxghejshgjflk

“Nhoxyqhcx hnohzuphtxoejs!”hejhpex ojqhoxhoejhbxrjsgjppkh“Nhlgjz!”

Ugqhejshpxg,hynljhejshe piugq,husx pjqhnghUgguhuhajjyngbhulnghox
qnpummxngotjgokhPejheuqhntubngjqhenthijoojshoeughejhzuphnghsjuynockhPej
euqhoxhyjohejspjyahqsxmhqxzghoxhoejhsjuynochoxhjg.xchenthuphejhsjuyyc
zupkhI ohjrjghuphejhzup,hejhzuphfeustngb,hznoehenphaunshf syp,henphiy j
jcjp,hugqhenphmy tm,hbsufja yhynooyjhyjbphnghonbeoychm yyjq- m
poxflngbpkhUgguhjvmjsnjgfjqhuytxpohmecpnfuyhmyjup sjhnghoejhpjgpuonxg
xahenphgjusgjpp,hugqhenphfusjppjp,hugqhtxsuyhpxxoengb,hzejghpejhtjohenp
pntmyj,hfxganqngb,hugqhyxrngbhbyugfj,hugqhejusqhenphguïrjhw jponxgpk
Ugguhoxxlhx ohoejhmsjpjgophQxyyc’phfenyqsjgheuqhpjgohent,hugqhoxyqhejs
pxghzeuohpxsohxahynooyjhbnsyhzuphOugcuhuohTxpfxz,hugqhexzhOugcuhfx yq
sjuq,hugqhjrjghou beohoejhxoejshfenyqsjgk

“Zec,huthNhgxohpxhgnfjhuphpej?”hupljqhPjscxdeuk

“Oxhtjhcx ’sjhgnfjshoeughugcxgjhnghoejhzxsyqk”

“Nhlgxzhoeuo,”hpunqhPjscxdeu,hptnyngbk

UgguheuqhgxoheuqhontjhoxhqsnglhejshfxaajjhzejghoejhFx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrguhzuphuggx gfjqkhOejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzuphuhouyy,hpox o
zxtug,hznoehugh gejuyoenychpuyyxzhaufjhugqhpmyjgqnq,hmjgpnrjhiyufl
jcjpkhUgguhynljqhejs,hi ohoxquchpejhpjjtjqhoxhijhpjjngbhejshaxshoej
anspohontjhznoehuyyhejshqjajfopk

“Zjyy,htchqjus,hpxhcx hoxxlhoejhxynrjhisugfe?”hngw nsjqhFx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrgu,huphpxxghuphpejhfutjhngoxhoejhsxxtk

“Cjp,hno’phuyyhxrjs,hi ohnohzuphuyyht fehyjpphpjsnx phoeughzjheuq
p mmxpjq,”hugpzjsjqhUggukh“Tch_ijyyj-pœ s_hnphnghbjgjsuyhoxxheupock”

I ohFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hoex behpejhzuphngojsjpojqhnghjrjscoengb
oeuohqnqhgxohfxgfjsghejs,heuqhuheuinohxahgjrjshynpojgngbhoxhzeuo
ngojsjpojqhejs;hpejhngojss mojqhUggu:

“Cjp,hoejsj’phmyjgochxahpxssxzhugqhjrnyhnghoejhzxsyqkhNhuthpxhzxssnjq
oxquck”

“Xe,hzec?”hupljqhUggu,hoscngbhoxhp mmsjpphuhptnyjk

“N’thijbnggngbhoxhijhzjuschxahas noyjppychfeutmnxgngbhoejhos oe,hugq
pxtjontjphN’thw nojh gengbjqhichnokhOejhPxfnjochxahoejhYnooyjhPnpojsp”
(oenphzuphuhsjynbnx pyc-muosnxonf,hmenyugoesxmnfhngpono onxg)h“zup
bxngbhpmyjgqnqyc,hi ohznoehoejpjhbjgoyjtjghno’phntmxppniyjhoxhqx
ugcoengb,”huqqjqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhnghuhoxgjhxahnsxgnfuy
p itnppnxghoxhqjpongckh“Oejchmx gfjhxghoejhnqju,hugqhqnpoxsohno,hugq
oejghzxslhnohx ohpxhmjoonychugqh gzxsoenyckhOzxhxshoesjjhmjxmyj,hcx s
e piugqhutxgbhoejt,h gqjspougqhuyyhoejhntmxsougfjhxahoejhoengb,hi ohoej
xoejsphpntmychqsubhnohqxzgkhCjpojsquchMsurqnghzsxojhoxhtjkkkk”

Msurqnghzuphuhzjyy-lgxzghMugpyurnpohuisxuq,hugqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu
qjpfsnijqhoejhm smxsohxahenphyjoojsk

Oejghoejhfx gojpphoxyqhejshxahtxsjhqnpubsjjtjgophugqhngosnb jphubungpo
oejhzxslhxahoejh gnanfuonxghxahoejhfe sfejp,hugqhqjmusojqhngheupoj,hup
pejheuqhoeuohquchoxhijhuohoejhtjjongbhxahpxtjhpxfnjochugqhuypxhuohoej
Pyurxgnfhfxttnoojjk

“Nohzuphuyyhoejhputjhijaxsj,hxahfx spj;hi ohzechzuphnohNhqnqg’ohgxonfj
nohijaxsj?”hUgguhupljqhejspjyakh“Xsheuphpejhijjghrjscht fehnssnouojq
oxquc?hNo’phsjuyychy qnfsx p;hejshxi.jfohnphqxngbhbxxq;hpejhu
Fesnponug,hcjohpej’phuyzucphugbsc;hugqhpejhuyzucpheuphjgjtnjp,hugq
uyzucphjgjtnjphnghoejhgutjhxahFesnponugnochugqhqxngbhbxxqk”

UaojshFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhugxoejshasnjgqhfutj,hoejhznajhxahuhfenja
pjfsjousc,hzexhoxyqhejshuyyhoejhgjzphxahoejhoxzgkhUohoesjjhx’fyxflhpej
oxxhzjgohuzuc,hmsxtnpngbhoxhfxtjhoxhqnggjskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzup
uohoejhtngnposckhUggu,hyjaohuyxgj,hpmjgohoejhontjhonyyhqnggjshng
uppnpongbhuohejshpxg’phqnggjsh(ejhqngjqhumusohasxthenphmusjgop)hugqhng
m oongbhejshoengbphnghxsqjs,hugqhnghsjuqngbhugqhugpzjsngbhoejhgxojphugq
yjoojsphzenfeheuqhuff t yuojqhxghejshouiyjk

Oejhajjyngbhxahfu pjyjpphpeutj,hzenfehpejheuqhajyohxghoejh.x sgjc,hugq
ejshjvfnojtjgo,hoxx,heuqhfxtmyjojychrugnpejqkhNghoejheuino uy
fxgqnonxgphxahejshynajhpejhajyohubunghsjpxy ojhugqhnssjmsxufeuiyjk

Pejhsjfuyyjqhznoehzxgqjshejshpouojhxahtngqhxghoejhmsjrnx phquckh“Zeuo
zuphno?hGxoengbkhRsxgplchpunqhpxtjoengbhpnyyc,hzenfehnohzuphjupchoxhm o
uhpoxmhox,hugqhNhugpzjsjqhuphNhx beohoxheurjhqxgjkhOxhpmjulhxahnohoxhtc
e piugqhzx yqhijh ggjfjppuschugqhx ohxahoejhw jponxgkhOxhpmjulhxahno
zx yqhijhoxhuooufehntmxsougfjhoxhzeuoheuphgxhntmxsougfjk”hPej
sjtjtijsjqhexzhpejheuqhoxyqhejshe piugqhxahzeuohzuphuytxpohu
qjfyusuonxghtuqjhejshuohMjojspi sbhichuhcx gbhtug,hxgjhxahejshe piugq’p
p ixsqnguojp,hugqhexzhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhugpzjsjqhoeuohjrjsc
zxtughynrngbhnghoejhzxsyqhzuphjvmxpjqhoxhp fehngfnqjgop,hi ohoeuohej
euqhoejha yyjpohfxganqjgfjhnghejshoufo,hugqhfx yqhgjrjshyxzjshejshugq
entpjyahich.juyx pckh“Pxhoejghoejsj’phgxhsjupxghoxhpmjulhxahno?hUgq
ngqjjq,hoeuglhBxq,hoejsj’phgxoengbhoxhpmjulhxa,”hpejhoxyqhejspjyak


Feumojsh33

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfutjhiuflhasxthoejhtjjongbhxahoejhtngnpojsphuo
ax shx’fyxfl,hi ohuphxaojgheummjgjq,hejheuqhgxohontjhoxhfxtjhnghoxhejsk
Ejhzjgohngoxhenphpo qchoxhpjjhoejhmjxmyjhzunongbhaxshenthznoe
mjononxgp,hugqhoxhpnbghpxtjhmumjsphisx beohenthichenphfenjahpjfsjousck
Uohqnggjshontjh(oejsjhzjsjhuyzucphuhajzhmjxmyjhqngngbhznoehoej
Lusjgngp)hoejsjhussnrjqhughxyqhyuqc,huhfx pnghxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
oejhfenjahpjfsjouschxahoejhqjmusotjgohugqhenphznaj,hugqhuhcx gbhtughzex
euqhijjghsjfxttjgqjqhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehaxshoejhpjsrnfjkhUggu
zjgohngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxthoxhsjfjnrjhoejpjhb jpopkhMsjfnpjychuohanrj
x’fyxfl,hijaxsjhoejhisxgdjhMjojshoejhAnspohfyxflheuqhpos flhoejhanaoe
posxlj,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfutjhng,hzjusngbhuhzenojhonjhugqhjrjgngb
fxuohznoehozxhpousp,huphejheuqhoxhbxhx ohqnsjfoychuaojshqnggjskhJrjsc
tng ojhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phynajhzuphmxsonxgjqhx ohugqhxff mnjqk
Ugqhoxhtuljhontjhoxhbjohoesx behuyyhoeuohyuchijaxsjhenthjrjschquc,hej
uqejsjqhoxhoejhposnfojpohm gfo uynockh“ geupongbhugqh gsjpongb,”hzup
enphtxooxkhEjhfutjhngoxhoejhqngngbheuyy,hbsjjojqhjrjscxgj,hugq
e ssnjqychpuohqxzg,hptnyngbhoxhenphznajk

“Cjp,htchpxyno qjhnphxrjskhCx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhexzh gfxtaxsouiyj”h(ej
yunqhposjpphxghoejhzxsqh_ gfxtaxsouiyj_)h“nohnphoxhqngjhuyxgjk”

Uohqnggjshejhouyljqhuhynooyjhoxhenphznajhuix ohTxpfxzhtuoojsp,hugq,
znoehuhpusfuponfhptnyj,hupljqhejshuaojshPojmughUsluqcjrnofe;hi ohoej
fxgrjspuonxghzuphaxshoejhtxpohmusohbjgjsuy,hqjuyngbhznoehMjojspi sb
xaanfnuyhugqhm iynfhgjzpkhUaojshqnggjshejhpmjgoheuyahughex shznoehenp
b jpop,hugqhubung,hznoehuhptnyj,hmsjppjqhenphznaj’pheugq,hznoeqsjz,hugq
qsxrjhxaahoxhoejhfx gfnykhUgguhqnqhgxohbxhx ohoeuohjrjgngbhjnoejshox
oejhMsngfjpphIjopchOrjsplucu,hzex,hejusngbhxahejshsjo sg,heuqhngrnojq
ejs,hgxshoxhoejhoejuojs,hzejsjhpejheuqhuhixvhaxshoeuohjrjgngbkhPejhqnq
gxohbxhx ohmsngfnmuyychijfu pjhoejhqsjpphpejheuqhsjflxgjqh mxghzuphgxo
sjuqckhUyoxbjoejs,hUggu,hxgho sgngb,huaojshoejhqjmuso sjhxahejshb jpop,
oxhoejhfxgpnqjsuonxghxahejshuoonsj,hzuphrjscht fehuggxcjqkhPejhzup
bjgjsuyychuhtnposjpphxahoejhusohxahqsjppngbhzjyyhznoex ohbsjuohjvmjgpj,
ugqhijaxsjhyjurngbhTxpfxzhpejheuqhbnrjghejshqsjpptuljshoesjjhqsjppjphox
osugpaxstkhOejhqsjppjpheuqhoxhijhuyojsjqhpxhoeuohoejchfx yqhgxohij
sjfxbgndjq,hugqhoejchx beohoxheurjhijjghsjuqchoesjjhqucphijaxsjkhNo
ummjusjqhoeuohozxhqsjppjpheuqhgxohijjghqxgjhuohuyy,hzenyjhoejhxoejshxgj
euqhgxohijjghuyojsjqhuphUgguheuqhngojgqjqkhOejhqsjpptuljshfutjhox
jvmyung,hqjfyusngbhoeuohnohzx yqhijhijoojshuphpejheuqhqxgjhno,hugqhUggu
zuphpxha snx phoeuohpejhajyohupeutjqhzejghpejhoex beohxahnohuaojszusqpk
Oxhsjbunghejshpjsjgnochfxtmyjojychpejhzjgohngoxhoejhg spjsc,hugqhpmjgo
oejhzexyjhjrjgngbhznoehejshpxg,hm ohenthoxhijqhejspjya,hpnbgjqhenthznoe
oejhfsxpp,hugqho fljqhenth mkhPejhzuphbyuqhpejheuqhgxohbxgjhx o
ugczejsj,hugqheuqhpmjgohoejhjrjgngbhpxhzjyykhPejhajyohpxhynbeo-ejusojq
ugqhpjsjgj,hpejhpuzhpxhfyjusychoeuohuyyhoeuoheuqhpjjtjqhoxhejshpx
ntmxsougohxghejshsunyzuch.x sgjchzuphxgychxgjhxahoejhfxttxghosnrnuy
ngfnqjgophxahaupenxguiyjhynaj,hugqhoeuohpejheuqhgxhsjupxghoxhajjy
upeutjqhijaxsjhugcxgjhjypjhxshijaxsjhejspjyakhUgguhpuohqxzghuohoej
ejusoehznoehughJgbynpehgxrjyhugqhzunojqhaxshejshe piugqkhJvufoychuo
euya-mupohgngjhpejhejusqhenphsngb,hugqhejhfutjhngoxhoejhsxxtk

“Ejsjhcx husjhuohyupo!”hpejhxipjsrjq,hexyqngbhx ohejsheugqhoxhentk

Ejhlnppjqhejsheugqhugqhpuohqxzghijpnqjhejsk

“Uyoxbjoejshoejg,hNhpjjhcx shrnpnohzuphuhp ffjpp,”hejhpunqhoxhejsk

“Xe,hcjp,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpejhijbughojyyngbhenthuix ohjrjscoengbhasxt
oejhijbnggngb:hejsh.x sgjchznoehFx gojpphRsxgplucu,hejshussnruy,hoej
uffnqjgohuohoejhpouonxgkhOejghpejhqjpfsnijqhoejhmnochpejheuqhajyo,
anspohaxshejshisxoejs,hugqhuaojszusqphaxshQxyyck

“Nhntubngjhxgjhfuggxohjvxgjsuojhp fehuhtughasxthiyutj,hoex behejhnp
cx shisxoejs,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpjrjsjyck

UgguhptnyjqkhPejhlgjzhoeuohejhpunqhoeuohpntmychoxhpexzhoeuohautnyc
fxgpnqjsuonxgphfx yqhgxohmsjrjgohenthasxthjvmsjppngbhenphbjg ngj
xmngnxgkhPejhlgjzhoeuohfeusufojsnponfhnghejshe piugq,hugqhynljqhnok

“Nhuthbyuqhnoheuphuyyhjgqjqhpxhpuonpaufoxsnyc,hugqhoeuohcx husjhiufl
ubung,”hejhzjgohxgkh“Fxtj,hzeuohqxhoejchpuchuix ohoejhgjzhufohNheurj
bxohmuppjqhnghoejhfx gfny?”

Ugguheuqhejusqhgxoengbhxahoenphufo,hugqhpejhajyohfxgpfnjgfj-posnfljghuo
eurngbhijjghuiyjhpxhsjuqnychoxhaxsbjohzeuohzuphoxhenthxahp fe
ntmxsougfjk

“Ejsj,hxghoejhxoejsheugq,hnoheuphtuqjhuhbsjuohpjgpuonxg,”hejhpunq,hznoe
uhfxtmyufjgohptnyjk

PejhpuzhoeuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzugojqhoxhojyyhejshpxtjoengb
myjupugohoxhenthuix ohno,hugqhpejhisx beohenthichw jponxgphoxhojyyngb
nokhZnoehoejhputjhfxtmyufjgohptnyjhejhoxyqhejshxahoejhxruonxgphejheuq
sjfjnrjqhnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahoejhufohejheuqhmuppjqk

“Nhzuphrjsc,hrjschbyuqkhNohpexzphoeuohuohyupohuhsjupxguiyjhugqhpojuqc
rnjzhxahoejhtuoojshnphijfxtngbhmsjruyjgohutxgbh pk”

Eurngbhqs glhenphpjfxgqhf mhxahojuhznoehfsjut,hugqhisjuq,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehbxoh m,hugqhzuphbxngbhoxzusqphenphpo qck

“Ugqhcx ’rjhgxohijjghugczejsjhoenphjrjgngb?hCx ’rjhijjghq yy,hN
jvmjfo?”hejhpunqk

“Xe,hgx!”hpejhugpzjsjq,hbjoongbh mhuaojshenthugqhuffxtmugcngbhent
ufsxpphoejhsxxthoxhenphpo qckh“Zeuohusjhcx hsjuqngbhgxz?”hpejhupljqk

“. pohgxzhN’thsjuqngbhQ fhqjhYnyyj,h_MxépnjhqjphJgajsp,_”hejhugpzjsjqk
“Uhrjschsjtusluiyjhixxlk”

Ugguhptnyjq,huphmjxmyjhptnyjhuohoejhzjulgjppjphxahoexpjhoejchyxrj,hugq,
m oongbhejsheugqh gqjshenp,hpejhjpfxsojqhenthoxhoejhqxxshxahoejhpo qck
Pejhlgjzhenpheuino,hoeuoheuqhbsxzghngoxhuhgjfjppnoc,hxahsjuqngbhnghoej
jrjgngbkhPejhlgjz,hoxx,hoeuohnghpmnojhxahenphxaanfnuyhq onjp,hzenfe
pzuyyxzjqh mhuytxpohoejhzexyjhxahenphontj,hejhfxgpnqjsjqhnohenphq ochox
ljjmh mhznoehjrjscoengbhxahgxojhoeuohummjusjqhnghoejhngojyyjfo uy
zxsyqkhPejhlgjz,hoxx,hoeuohejhzuphsjuyychngojsjpojqhnghixxlphqjuyngb
znoehmxynonfp,hmenyxpxmec,hugqhoejxyxbc,hoeuohusohzuph oojsychaxsjnbg
oxhenphguo sj;hi o,hnghpmnojhxahoenp,hxshsuoejs,hnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahno,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehgjrjshmuppjqhxrjshugcoengbhnghoejhzxsyqhxahuso,
i ohtuqjhnohenphq ochoxhsjuqhjrjscoengbkhPejhlgjzhoeuohnghmxynonfp,hng
menyxpxmec,hnghoejxyxbc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehxaojgheuqhqx iop,hugq
tuqjhngrjponbuonxgp;hi ohxghw jponxgphxahusohugqhmxjosc,hugq,huixrj
uyy,hxaht pnf,hxahzenfehejhzuphoxouyychqjrxnqhxah gqjspougqngb,hejheuq
oejhtxpohqnpongfohugqhqjfnqjqhxmngnxgpkhEjhzuphaxgqhxahouylngbhuix o
Peuljpmjusj,hSumeujy,hIjjoexrjg,hxahoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahgjzhpfexxyphxa
mxjoschugqht pnf,huyyhxahzenfehzjsjhfyuppnanjqhichenthznoehrjsc
fxgpmnf x phfxgpnpojgfck

“Zjyy,hBxqhijhznoehcx ,”hpejhpunqhuohoejhqxxshxahoejhpo qc,hzejsjhu
peuqjqhfugqyjhugqhuhqjfugojshxahzuojshzjsjhuysjuqchm ohichenphustfeunsk
“UgqhN’yyhzsnojhoxhTxpfxzk”

Ejhmsjppjqhejsheugq,hugqhubunghlnppjqhnok

“Uyyhoejhputjhej’phuhbxxqhtug;hos oea y,hbxxq-ejusojq,hugqhsjtusluiyj
nghenphxzghyngj,”hUgguhpunqhoxhejspjyahbxngbhiuflhoxhejshsxxt,hup
oex behpejhzjsjhqjajgqngbhenthoxhpxtjxgjhzexheuqhuooufljqhenthugqhpunq
oeuohxgjhfx yqhgxohyxrjhentkh“I ohzechnphnohenphjusphponflhx ohpx
posugbjyc?hXsheuphejheuqhenpheunshf o?”

Msjfnpjychuohozjyrjhx’fyxfl,hzejghUgguhzuphponyyhpnoongbhuohejs
zsnongb-ouiyj,hangnpengbhuhyjoojshoxhQxyyc,hpejhejusqhoejhpx gqhxa
tjup sjqhpojmphnghpynmmjsp,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hasjpeychzupejq
ugqhfxtijq,hznoehuhixxlh gqjshenphust,hfutjhnghoxhejsk

“No’phontj,hno’phontj,”hpunqhej,hznoehuhtjugngbhptnyj,hugqhejhzjgohngox
oejnshijqsxxtk

“Ugqhzeuohsnbeoheuqhejhoxhyxxlhuohenthynljhoeuo?”hoex beohUggu,
sjfuyyngbhRsxgplc’phbyugfjhuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

 gqsjppngb,hpejhzjgohngoxhoejhijqsxxt;hi ohejshaufjheuqhgxgjhxahoej
jubjsgjpphzenfe,hq sngbhejshpouchnghTxpfxz,heuqhaunsychayupejqhasxthejs
jcjphugqhejshptnyj;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hgxzhoejhansjhpjjtjqhw jgfejqhng
ejs,henqqjghpxtjzejsjhaushuzuck


Feumojsh34

ZejghRsxgplchzjgohoxhTxpfxzhasxthMjojspi sb,hejheuqhyjaohenphyusbjhpjo
xahsxxtphnghTxsplunuhoxhenphasnjgqhugqhaurxsnojhfxtsuqjhMjosnoplck

Mjosnoplchzuphuhcx gbhynj ojgugo,hgxohmusonf yusychzjyy-fxggjfojq,hugq
gxohtjsjychgxohzjuyoec,hi ohuyzucphexmjyjppychnghqjiokhOxzusqphjrjgngb
ejhzuphuyzucphqs gl,hugqhejheuqhxaojghijjghyxfljqh mhuaojshuyyhpxsophxa
y qnfsx phugqhqnpbsufja yhpfugquyp,hi ohejhzuphuhaurxsnojhixoehxahenp
fxtsuqjphugqhenphp mjsnxshxaanfjspkhXghussnrngbhuohozjyrjhx’fyxflhasxt
oejhpouonxghuohenphayuo,hRsxgplchpuz,huohoejhx ojshqxxs,huhensjq
fussnubjhautnynushoxhentkhZenyjhponyyhx opnqjhenphxzghqxxs,huphejhsugb,
ejhejusqhtupf yngjhyu beojs,hoejhynpmhxahuhajtngngjhrxnfj,hugq
Mjosnoplc’phrxnfjkh“Nahoeuo’phxgjhxahoejhrnyyungp,hqxg’ohyjohenthng!”
Rsxgplchoxyqhoejhpjsrugohgxohoxhuggx gfjhent,hugqhpynmmjqhw njoychngox
oejhanspohsxxtkhIusxgjpphPenyoxg,huhasnjgqhxahMjosnoplc’p,hznoehuhsxpc
ynooyjhaufjhugqhayuvjgheuns,hsjpmyjgqjgohnghuhynyufhpuonghbxzg,hugq
anyyngbhoejhzexyjhsxxt,hynljhuhfugusc,hznoehejshMusnpnughfeuoojs,hpuo
uohoejhsx gqhouiyjhtulngbhfxaajjkhMjosnoplc,hnghenphxrjsfxuo,hugqhoej
furuyschfumounghLutjsxrplc,hngha yyh gnaxst,hmsxiuiych. pohfxtjhasxt
q oc,hzjsjhpnoongbhjufehpnqjhxahejsk

“Isurx!hRsxgplc!”hpex ojqhMjosnoplc,h. tmngbh m,hpfsumngbhenphfeunsk
“X shexpohentpjya!hIusxgjpp,hpxtjhfxaajjhaxshenthx ohxahoejhgjzhfxaajj
mxokhZec,hzjhqnqg’ohjvmjfohcx !hExmjhcx ’sjhpuonpanjqhznoehoejhxsgutjgo
xahcx shpo qc,”hejhpunq,hngqnfuongbhoejhiusxgjppkh“Cx hlgxzhjufehxoejs,
xahfx spj?”

“Nhpex yqhoenglhpx,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hznoehuhisnbeohptnyj,hmsjppngbhoej
iusxgjpp’phynooyjheugqkh“Zeuohgjvo!hN’thughxyqhasnjgqk”

“Cx ’sjhextjhuaojshuh.x sgjc,”hpunqhoejhiusxgjpp,h“pxhN’thaycngbkhXe,
N’yyhijhxaahoenphtng oj,hnahN’thnghoejhzuck”

“Cx ’sjhextj,hzejsjrjshcx husj,hiusxgjpp,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Exzhqxhcx 
qx,hLutjsxrplc?”hejhuqqjq,hfxyqychpeulngbheugqphznoehLutjsxrplck

“Oejsj,hcx hgjrjshlgxzhexzhoxhpuchp fehmsjoochoengbp,”hpunqhoej
iusxgjpp,ho sgngbhoxhMjosnoplck

“Gx;hzeuo’phoeuohaxs?hUaojshqnggjshNhpuchoengbphw nojhuphbxxqk”

“Uaojshqnggjshoejsj’phgxhfsjqnohnghoejt?hZjyy,hoejg,hN’yyhtuljhcx hpxtj
fxaajj,hpxhbxhugqhzupehugqhbjohsjuqc,”hpunqhoejhiusxgjpp,hpnoongbhqxzg
ubung,hugqhugvnx pycho sgngbhoejhpfsjzhnghoejhgjzhfxaajjhmxokh“Mnjssj,
bnrjhtjhoejhfxaajj,”hpejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhMjosnoplc,hzexthpejhfuyyjq
Mnjssjhuphuhfxgosufonxghxahenphp sgutj,htulngbhgxhpjfsjohxahejs
sjyuonxgphznoehentkh“N’yyhm ohnohngk”

“Cx ’yyhpmxnyhno!”

“Gx,hNhzxg’ohpmxnyhno!hZjyy,hugqhcx shznaj?”hpunqhoejhiusxgjpp
p qqjgyc,hngojss mongbhRsxgplc’phfxgrjspuonxghznoehenphfxtsuqjkh“Zj’rj
ijjghtusscngbhcx hejsjkhEurjhcx hisx beohcx shznaj?”

“Gx,hiusxgjppkhNhzuphixsghuhIxejtnug,hugqhuhIxejtnughNhpeuyyhqnjk”

“Pxht fehoejhijoojs,hpxht fehoejhijoojskhPeuljheugqphxghnok”

Ugqhoejhiusxgjpp,hqjoungngbhRsxgplc,hijbughojyyngbhent,hznoehtugc
.xljp,huix ohejshyupohgjzhmyugphxahynaj,huplngbhenphuqrnfjk

“Ejhmjspnpophnghsja pngbhoxhbnrjhtjhuhqnrxsfj!hZjyy,hzeuohuthNhoxhqx?”
(_Ej_hzuphejshe piugqk)h“GxzhNhzugohoxhijbnghuhp nohubungpohentkhZeuo
qxhcx huqrnpj?hLutjsxrplc,hyxxlhuaojshoejhfxaajj;hno’phixnyngbhxrjsk
Cx hpjj,hN’thjgbsxppjqhznoehi pngjpp!hNhzugohuhyuzp no,hijfu pjhNht po
eurjhtchmsxmjsockhQxhcx h gqjspougqhoejhaxyychxahno,hoeuohxghoej
msjojvohxahtchijngbh gaunoea yhoxhent,”hpejhpunqhfxgojtmo x pyc,h“ej
zugophoxhbjohoejhijgjanohxahtchaxso gjk”

Rsxgplchejusqhznoehmyjup sjhoenphynbeo-ejusojqhmsuooyjhxahuhmsjooc
zxtug,hubsjjqhznoehejs,hburjhejsheuya-.xlngbhfx gpjy,hugqhuyoxbjoejs
qsxmmjqhuohxgfjhngoxhoejhoxgjheuino uyhoxhenthnghouylngbhoxhp fehzxtjgk
NghenphMjojspi sbhzxsyqhuyyhmjxmyjhzjsjhqnrnqjqhngoxh oojsychxmmxpjq
fyuppjpkhXgj,hoejhyxzjshfyupp,hr ybus,hpo mnq,hugq,huixrjhuyy,
snqnf yx phmjxmyj,hzexhijynjrjhoeuohxgjhe piugqhx beohoxhynrjhznoehoej
xgjhznajhzexthejheuphyuza yychtussnjq;hoeuohuhbnsyhpex yqhijhnggxfjgo,
uhzxtughtxqjpo,hugqhuhtughtugyc,hpjya-fxgosxyyjq,hugqhposxgb;hoeuohxgj
x beohoxhisngbh mhxgj’phfenyqsjg,hjusghxgj’phisjuq,hugqhmuchxgj’p
qjiop;hugqhrusnx phpntnyushuip sqnonjpkhOenphzuphoejhfyupphxa
xyq-aupenxgjqhugqhsnqnf yx phmjxmyjkhI ohoejsjhzuphugxoejshfyupphxa
mjxmyj,hoejhsjuyhmjxmyjkhOxhoenphfyupphoejchuyyhijyxgbjq,hugqhnghnohoej
bsjuohoengbhzuphoxhijhjyjbugo,hbjgjsx p,hmy flc,hbuc,hoxhuiugqxg
xgjpjyahznoex ohuhiy pehoxhjrjschmuppnxg,hugqhoxhyu behuohjrjscoengb
jypjk

Axshoejhanspohtxtjgohxgyc,hRsxgplchzuphpousoyjqhuaojshoejhntmsjppnxghxa
uhw nojhqnaajsjgohzxsyqhoeuohejheuqhisx beohznoehenthasxthTxpfxzkhI o
nttjqnuojychuphoex behpynmmngbhenphajjohngoxhxyqhpynmmjsp,hejhqsxmmjq
iuflhngoxhoejhynbeo-ejusojq,hmyjupugohzxsyqhejheuqhuyzucphynrjqhngk

Oejhfxaajjhzuphgjrjshsjuyychtuqj,hi ohpmy oojsjqhxrjshjrjscxgj,hugq
ixnyjqhuzuc,hqxngbh. pohzeuohzuphsjw nsjqhxahno—oeuohnp,hmsxrnqngbht fe
fu pjhaxsht fehgxnpjhugqhyu beojs,hugqhpmxnyngbhuhfxpoychs bhugqhoej
iusxgjpp’phbxzgk

“Zjyyhgxz,hbxxq-icj,hxshcx ’yyhgjrjshbjohzupejq,hugqhNhpeuyyheurjhxghtc
fxgpfnjgfjhoejhzxspohpnghuhbjgoyjtughfughfxttnokhPxhcx hzx yqhuqrnpjhu
lgnajhoxhenphoesxuo?”

“Oxhijhp sj,hugqhtugubjhoeuohcx sheugqhtuchgxohijhaushasxthenphynmpk
Ej’yyhlnpphcx sheugq,hugqhuyyhznyyhjgqhpuonpaufoxsnyc,”hugpzjsjq
Rsxgplck

“PxhuohoejhAsugçunp!”hugq,hznoehuhs poyjhxahejshplnsop,hpejhrugnpejqk

Lutjsxrplchbxoh mhoxx,hugqhRsxgplc,hgxohzunongbhaxshenthoxhbx,hpexxl
eugqphugqhzjgohxaahoxhenphqsjppngb-sxxtk

Zenyjhejhzuphzupengb,hMjosnoplchqjpfsnijqhoxhenthnghisnjahx oyngjphenp
mxpnonxg,huphaushuphnoheuqhfeugbjqhpngfjhRsxgplcheuqhyjaohMjojspi sbk
GxhtxgjchuohuyykhEnphauoejshpunqhejhzx yqg’ohbnrjhenthugchugqhmuchenp
qjiopkhEnphounyxshzuphoscngbhoxhbjohenthyxfljqh m,hugqhugxoejshajyyxz,
oxx,hzuphoesjuojgngbhoxhbjohenthyxfljqh mkhOejhfxyxgjyhxahoejhsjbntjgo
euqhuggx gfjqhoeuohnahoejpjhpfugquyphqnqhgxohfjupjhejhzx yqheurjhox
yjurjkhUphaxshoejhiusxgjpp,hejhzuphpnflhoxhqjuoehxahejs,hjpmjfnuyyc
pngfjhpej’qhouljghoxhxaajsngbhfxgong uyychoxhyjgqhenthtxgjckhI ohejheuq
ax gqhuhbnsy—ej’qhpexzhejshoxhRsxgplc—uhtusrjy,hjvw npnoj,hnghoej
posnfohXsnjgouyhpocyj,h“bjgsjhxahoejhpyurjhSjijffu,hqxg’ohcx hlgxzk”
Ej’qheuqhuhsxz,hoxx,hznoehIjslxpexr,hugqhzuphbxngbhoxhpjgqhpjfxgqphox
ent,hi ohxahfx spjhnohzx yqhfxtjhoxhgxoengbkhUyoxbjoejshjrjscoengbhzup
p msjtjychut pngbhugqh.xyyckhUgq,hgxohyjoongbhenphfxtsuqjhjgojshngox
a soejshqjounyphxahenphmxpnonxg,hMjosnoplchmsxfjjqjqhoxhojyyhenthuyy
oejhngojsjpongbhgjzpkhUphejhynpojgjqhoxhMjosnoplc’phautnynushpoxsnjphng
oejhautnynushpjoongbhxahoejhsxxtphejheuqhpmjgohoejhyupohoesjjhcjusphng,
Rsxgplchajyohuhqjynbeoa yhpjgpjhxahfxtngbhiuflhoxhoejhfusjyjpp
Mjojspi sbhynajhoeuohejhzuph pjqhoxk

“Ntmxppniyj!”hejhfsnjq,hyjoongbhqxzghoejhmjquyhxahoejhzupengbhiupnghng
zenfehejheuqhijjghpx pngbhenphejuyoechsjqhgjflkh“Ntmxppniyj!”hejhfsnjq,
uohoejhgjzphoeuohYu suheuqhay gbhxrjshAjsongbexahugqheuqhtuqjh mhox
Tnyjjrkh“Ugqhnphejhuphpo mnqhugqhmyjupjqhuphjrjs?hZjyy,hugqhexz’p
I d y lxr?”

“Xe,hoejsjhnphuhouyjhuix ohI d y lxr—pntmychyxrjyc!”hfsnjqhMjosnoplck
“Cx hlgxzhenphzjulgjpphaxshiuyyp,hugqhejhgjrjshtnppjphuhpngbyjhfx so
iuyykhEjhzjgohoxhuhinbhiuyyhnghuhgjzhejytjokhEurjhcx hpjjghoejhgjz
ejytjop?hRjschgnfj,hynbeojskhZjyy,hpxhej’phpougqngbkkkkhGx,hNhpuc,hqx
ynpojgk”

“Nhuthynpojgngb,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hs iingbhentpjyahznoehuhsx behoxzjyk

“ mhfxtjphoejhBsugqhQ fejpphznoehpxtjhutiuppuqxshxshxoejs,hugq,hup
nyy-y flhzx yqheurjhno,hpejhijbngphouylngbhoxhenthuix ohoejhgjz
ejytjopkhOejhBsugqhQ fejpphmxpnonrjychzugojqhoxhpexzhoejhgjzhejytjohox
oejhutiuppuqxskhOejchpjjhx shasnjgqhpougqngbhoejsjk”h(Mjosnoplc
tntnfljqhexzhejhzuphpougqngbhznoehoejhejytjok)h“OejhBsugqhQ fejpphupljq
enthoxhbnrjhejshoejhejytjo;hejhqxjpg’ohbnrjhnohoxhejskhZeuohqxhcx 
oenglhxahoeuo?hZjyy,hjrjscxgj’phznglngbhuohent,hgxqqngb,hasxzgngb—bnrj
nohoxhejs,hqx!hEjhqxjpg’ohbnrjhnohoxhejskhEj’pht ojhuphuhanpekhXgyc
mnfo sjhno!kkkhZjyy,hoejhkkkhzeuo’phenphgutj,hzeuojrjshejhzuphkkkhosnjp
oxhouljhoejhejytjohasxthenthkkkhejhzxg’ohbnrjhnoh m!kkkhEjhm yyphno
asxthent,hugqheugqphnohoxhoejhBsugqhQ fejppkh‘Ejsj,hcx shEnbegjpp,’
pucphej,h‘nphoejhgjzhejytjok’hPejho sgjqhoejhejytjohoejhxoejshpnqjh m,
Ugq—. pohmnfo sjhno!—myxmhzjgohuhmjushugqhpzjjotjuophx ohxahno,hozx
mx gqphxahpzjjotjuop!kkkhEj’qhijjghpoxsngbhoejth m,hoejhqusyngb!”

Rsxgplchi spohngoxhsxusphxahyu beojskhUgqhyxgbhuaojszusqp,hzejghejhzup
ouylngbhxahxoejshoengbp,hejhisxljhx ohngoxhenphejuyoechyu be,hpexzngb
enphposxgb,hfyxpjhsxzphxahojjoe,hzejghejhoex beohxahoejhejytjok

Eurngbhejusqhuyyhoejhgjzp,hRsxgplc,hznoehoejhuppnpougfjhxahenphruyjo,
bxohngoxhenph gnaxst,hugqhzjgohxaahoxhsjmxsohentpjyakhEjhngojgqjq,hzejg
ejheuqhqxgjhoeuo,hoxhqsnrjhoxhenphisxoejs’phugqhoxhIjopc’phugqhoxhmuc
pjrjsuyhrnpnophznoehuhrnjzhoxhijbnggngbhoxhbxhngoxhoeuohpxfnjochzejsj
ejhtnbeohtjjohTuqutjhLusjgngukhUphejhuyzucphqnqhnghMjojspi sb,hejhyjao
extjhgxohtjugngbhoxhsjo sghonyyhyuojhuohgnbeok






MUSOhOZX


Feumojsh1

Uohoejhjgqhxahoejhzngojs,hnghoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hex pj,huhfxgp youonxg
zuphijngbhejyq,hzenfehzuphoxhmsxgx gfjhxghoejhpouojhxahLnooc’phejuyoe
ugqhoejhtjup sjphoxhijhouljghoxhsjpoxsjhejshaunyngbhposjgboekhPejheuq
ijjghnyy,hugqhuphpmsngbhfutjhxghpejhbsjzhzxspjkhOejhautnychqxfoxshburj
ejshfxqhynrjshxny,hoejghnsxg,hoejghgnosuojhxahpnyrjs,hi ohuphoejhanspo
ugqhoejhpjfxgqhugqhoejhoensqhzjsjhuynljhnghqxngbhgxhbxxq,hugqhuphenp
uqrnfjhzejghpmsngbhfutjhzuphoxhbxhuisxuq,huhfjyjisuojqhmecpnfnughzup
fuyyjqhngkhOejhfjyjisuojqhmecpnfnug,huhrjscheugqpxtjhtug,hponyy
cx gbnpe,hupljqhoxhjvutngjhoejhmuonjgokhEjhtungoungjq,hznoehmjf ynus
puonpaufonxg,hnohpjjtjq,hoeuohtunqjghtxqjpochnphuhtjsjhsjynfhxa
iusiusnpt,hugqhoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhijhtxsjhguo suyhoeughaxshuhtughponyy
cx gbnpehoxheugqyjhuhcx gbhbnsyhguljqkhEjhoex beohnohguo suyhijfu pjhej
qnqhnohjrjschquc,hugqhajyohugqhoex beo,huphnohpjjtjqhoxhent,hgxheusthup
ejhqnqhnohugqhfxgpjw jgoychejhfxgpnqjsjqhtxqjpochnghoejhbnsyhgxohtjsjyc
uphuhsjynfhxahiusiusnpt,hi ohuypxhuphughngp yohoxhentpjyak

Oejsjhzuphgxoengbhaxshnohi ohoxhp itno,hpngfj,huyoex behuyyhoejhqxfoxsp
euqhpo qnjqhnghoejhputjhpfexxy,heuqhsjuqhoejhputjhixxlp,hugqhyjusgjq
oejhputjhpfnjgfj,hugqhoex behpxtjhmjxmyjhpunqhoenphfjyjisuojqhqxfoxs
zuphuhiuqhqxfoxs,hnghoejhmsngfjpp’phex pjexyqhugqhfnsfyjhnohzuphaxs
pxtjhsjupxghuffjmojqhoeuohoenphfjyjisuojqhqxfoxshuyxgjheuqhpxtjhpmjfnuy
lgxzyjqbj,hugqhoeuohejhuyxgjhfx yqhpurjhLnoockhUaojshuhfusja y
jvutnguonxghugqhpx gqngbhxahoejhijznyqjsjqhmuonjgo,hqudjqhznoehpeutj,
oejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxs,heurngbhpfs m yx pychzupejqhenpheugqp,hzup
pougqngbhnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthouylngbhoxhoejhmsngfjkhOejhmsngfjhasxzgjq
ugqhfx bejq,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhqxfoxskhUphuhtughzexheuqhpjjghpxtjoengb
xahynaj,hugqhgjnoejshuhaxxyhgxshughngruynq,hejheuqhgxhaunoehng
tjqnfngj,hugqhnghenphejusohzupha snx phuohoejhzexyjhausfj,hpmjfnuyychup
ejhzuphmjseumphoejhxgychxgjhzexha yychfxtmsjejgqjqhoejhfu pjhxahLnooc’p
nyygjppkh“Fxgfjnojqhiyxflejuq!”hejhoex beo,huphejhynpojgjqhoxhoej
fjyjisuojqhqxfoxs’phfeuoojshuix ohenphqu beojs’phpctmoxtpkhOejhqxfoxs
zuphtjugontjhznoehqnaanf yochsjposungngbhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphfxgojtmo
axshoenphxyqhbjgoyjtug,hugqhznoehqnaanf yochfxgqjpfjgqngbhoxhoejhyjrjy
xahenphngojyynbjgfjkhEjhmjsfjnrjqhoeuohnohzuphgxhbxxqhouylngbhoxhoej
xyqhtug,hugqhoeuohoejhmsngfnmuyhmjspxghnghoejhex pjhzuphoejhtxoejsk
IjaxsjhejshejhqjfnqjqhoxhpfuoojshenphmjusypkhUohoeuohngpougohoej
msngfjpphfutjhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxthznoehoejhautnychqxfoxskhOejhmsngfj
znoeqsjz,hoscngbhgxohoxhpexzhexzhsnqnf yx phejhoex beohoejhzexyj
mjsaxstugfjkhOejhmsngfjpphzuphqnposufojq,hugqhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhqxk
PejhajyohpejheuqhpnggjqhubungpohLnoock

“Zjyy,hqxfoxs,hqjfnqjhx shauoj,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppkh“Ojyyhtj
jrjscoengbk”

“Nphoejsjhexmj?”hpejhtjugohoxhpuc,hi ohejshynmphw nrjsjq,hugqhpejhfx yq
gxoh oojshoejhw jponxgkh“Zjyy,hqxfoxs?”

“Nttjqnuojyc,hmsngfjppkhNhznyyhouylhnohxrjshznoehtchfxyyjub j,hugqhoejg
Nhznyyheurjhoejhexgxshxahyucngbhtchxmngnxghijaxsjhcx k”

“Pxhzjheuqhijoojshyjurjhcx ?”

“Uphcx hmyjupjk”

Oejhmsngfjpphzjgohx ohznoehuhpnbek

Zejghoejhqxfoxsphzjsjhyjaohuyxgj,hoejhautnychqxfoxshijbughontnqyc
jvmyungngbhenphxmngnxg,hoeuohoejsjhzuphuhfxttjgfjtjgohxaho ijsf yx p
osx iyj,hi ohkkkhugqhpxhxgkhOejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxshynpojgjqhoxhent,hugq
nghoejhtnqqyjhxahenphpjgojgfjhyxxljqhuohenphinbhbxyqhzuofek

“Cjp,”hpunqhejkh“I okkkk”

Oejhautnychqxfoxshsjpmjfoa yychfjupjqhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahenp
xipjsruonxgpk

“Oejhfxttjgfjtjgohxahoejho ijsf yx phmsxfjpphzjhusjhgxo,huphcx husj
uzusj,huiyjhoxhqjangj;honyyhoejsjhusjhfurnonjp,hoejsjhnphgxoengb
qjangnojkhI ohzjhtuchp pmjfohnokhUgqhoejsjhusjhngqnfuonxgp;
tuyg osnonxg,hgjsrx phjvfnouinynoc,hugqhpxhxgkhOejhw jponxghpougqp
oe p:hnghmsjpjgfjhxahngqnfuonxgphxaho ijsf yx phmsxfjpp,hzeuohnphoxhij
qxgjhoxhtungounghg osnonxg?”

“I o,hcx hlgxz,hoejsjhusjhuyzucphtxsuy,hpmnsno uyhfu pjphuohoejhiuflhng
oejpjhfupjp,”hoejhautnychqxfoxshmjstnoojqhentpjyahoxhngojsmxyuojhznoehu
p ioyjhptnyjk

“Cjp,hoeuo’phugh gqjspoxxqhoengb,”hsjpmxgqjqhoejhfjyjisuojqhmecpnfnug,
ubunghbyugfngbhuohenphzuofekh“Ijbhmusqxg,hnphoejhCu plchisnqbjhqxgj
cjo,hxshpeuyyhNheurjhoxhqsnrjhusx gq?”hejhupljqkh“Ue!hnohnpkhXe,hzjyy,
oejghNhfughqxhnohnghozjgochtng ojpkhPxhzjhzjsjhpucngbhoejhmsxiyjthtuc
ijhm ohoe p:hoxhtungounghg osnonxghugqhoxhbnrjhoxgjhoxhoejhgjsrjpkhOej
xgjhnphnghfyxpjhfxggjfonxghznoehoejhxoejs,hxgjht pohuoouflhixoehpnqjp
uohxgfjk”

“Ugqhexzhuix ohuhox shuisxuq?”hupljqhoejhautnychqxfoxsk

“N’rjhgxhynlngbhaxshaxsjnbghox spkhUgqhouljhgxoj:hnahoejsjhnphughjusyc
poubjhxaho ijsf yx phmsxfjpp,hxahzenfehzjhfuggxohijhfjsoung,huhaxsjnbg
ox shznyyhijhxahgxh pjkhZeuohnphzugojqhnphtjugphxahntmsxrngbhg osnonxg,
ugqhgxohaxshyxzjsngbhnok”hUgqhoejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxshjvmx gqjqhenphmyug
xahosjuotjgohznoehPxqjghzuojsp,huhsjtjqchxirnx pychmsjpfsnijqhmsntusnyc
xghoejhbsx gqhoeuohoejchfx yqhqxhgxheustk

Oejhautnychqxfoxshynpojgjqhuoojgonrjychugqhsjpmjfoa yyck

“I ohnghaurxshxahaxsjnbghosurjyhNhzx yqh sbjhoejhfeugbjhxaheuinop,hoej
sjtxruyhasxthfxgqnonxgphfuyyngbh mhsjtngnpfjgfjpkhUgqhoejghoejhtxoejs
znpejphno,”hejhuqqjqk

“Ue!hZjyy,hnghoeuohfupj,hoxhijhp sj,hyjohoejthbxkhXgyc,hoexpjhBjstug
w uflphusjhtnpfenjrx pkkkkhOejchx beohoxhijhmjsp uqjqkkkkhZjyy,hyjo
oejthbxhoejgk”

Ejhbyugfjqhxgfjhtxsjhuohenphzuofek

“Xe!hontj’ph mhuysjuqc,”hUgqhejhzjgohoxhoejhqxxskhOejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxs
uggx gfjqhoxhoejhmsngfjpph(uhajjyngbhxahzeuohzuphq jhasxthenthqnfouojq
enphqxngbhpx)hoeuohejhx beohoxhpjjhoejhmuonjgohxgfjhtxsjk

“Zeuo!hugxoejshjvutnguonxg!”hfsnjqhoejhtxoejs,hznoehexssxsk

“Xe,hgx,hxgychuhajzhqjounyp,hmsngfjppk”

“Fxtjhoenphzuck”

Ugqhoejhtxoejs,huffxtmugnjqhichoejhqxfoxs,hzjgohngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt
oxhLnoockhZupojqhugqhay pejq,hznoehuhmjf ynushbynoojshnghejshjcjp,hyjao
oejsjhichoejhubxgchxahpeutjhpejheuqhijjghm ohoesx be,hLnoochpoxxqhng
oejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxtkhZejghoejhqxfoxshfutjhnghpejhay pejqhfsntpxg,
ugqhejshjcjphanyyjqhznoehojuspkhUyyhejshnyygjpphugqhosjuotjgohpos fl
ejshuphuhoengbhpxhpo mnq,hy qnfsx phjrjg!hQxfoxsngbhejshpjjtjqhoxhejs
uphuip sqhuphm oongbhoxbjoejshoejhmnjfjphxahuhisxljghrupjkhEjshejuso
zuphisxljgkhZechzx yqhoejchoschoxhf sjhejshznoehmnyyphugqhmxzqjsp?hI o
pejhfx yqhgxohbsnjrjhejshtxoejs,hjpmjfnuyychuphejshtxoejshfxgpnqjsjq
ejspjyahoxhiyutjk

“TuchNhosx iyjhcx hoxhpnohqxzg,hmsngfjpp?”hoejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxshpunq
oxhejsk

Ejhpuohqxzghznoehuhptnyj,haufngbhejs,hajyohejshm ypj,hugqhubunghijbug
uplngbhejshonsjpxtjhw jponxgpkhPejhugpzjsjqhent,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjhbxo
 m,ha snx pk

“Jvf pjhtj,hqxfoxs,hi ohoejsjhnphsjuyychgxhxi.jfohnghoenpkhOenphnphoej
oensqhontjhcx ’rjhupljqhtjhoejhputjhoengbk”

Oejhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxshqnqhgxohouljhxaajgpjk

“Gjsrx phnssnouinynoc,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhmsngfjpp,hzejghLnoocheuqhyjao
oejhsxxtkh“Exzjrjs,hNheuqhangnpejqkkkk”

Ugqhoejhqxfoxshijbughpfnjgonanfuyychjvmyungngbhoxhoejhmsngfjpp,huphug
jvfjmonxguyychngojyynbjgohzxtug,hoejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhcx gbhmsngfjpp,
ugqhfxgfy qjqhichngpnpongbhxghoejhqsnglngbhxahoejhzuojsp,hzenfehzjsj
fjsoungycheustyjppkhUohoejhw jponxg:hPex yqhoejchbxhuisxuq?hoejhqxfoxs
my gbjqhngoxhqjjmhtjqnouonxg,huphoex behsjpxyrngbhuhzjnbeochmsxiyjtk
Anguyychenphqjfnpnxghzuphmsxgx gfjq:hoejchzjsjhoxhbxhuisxuq,hi ohoxhm o
gxhaunoehnghaxsjnbghw uflp,hugqhoxhummychoxhenthnghugchgjjqk

Nohpjjtjqhuphoex behpxtjhmnjfjhxahbxxqhaxso gjheuqhfxtjhoxhmupphuaojs
oejhqxfoxsheuqhbxgjkhOejhtxoejshzupht fehtxsjhfejjsa yhzejghpejhzjgo
iuflhoxhejshqu beojs,hugqhLnoochmsjojgqjqhoxhijhtxsjhfejjsa ykhPejheuq
xaojg,huytxpohuyzucp,hoxhijhmsjojgqngbhgxzk

“Sjuyyc,hN’thw nojhzjyy,htuttukhI ohnahcx hzugohoxhbxhuisxuq,hyjo’p
bx!”hpejhpunq,hugqhoscngbhoxhummjushngojsjpojqhnghoejhmsxmxpjqhox s,
pejhijbughouylngbhxahoejhmsjmusuonxgphaxshoejh.x sgjck


Feumojsh2

Pxxghuaojshoejhqxfoxs,hQxyycheuqhussnrjqkhPejhlgjzhoeuohoejsjhzuphoxhij
uhfxgp youonxghoeuohquc,hugqhoex behpejhzuphxgych. poh mhuaojshejs
fxgangjtjgoh(pejheuqhugxoejshiuic,huhynooyjhbnsy,hixsghuohoejhjgqhxa
oejhzngojs),hoex behpejheuqhosx iyjhugqhugvnjochjgx behxahejshxzg,hpej
euqhyjaohejshongchiuichugqhuhpnflhfenyq,hoxhfxtjhugqhejushLnooc’phauoj,
zenfehzuphoxhijhqjfnqjqhoeuohquck

“Zjyy,hzjyy?”hpejhpunq,hfxtngbhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hznoex ohoulngb
xaahejsheuokh“Cx ’sjhuyyhnghbxxqhpmnsnopkhBxxqhgjzp,hoejg?”

Oejchosnjqhoxhojyyhejshzeuohoejhqxfoxsheuqhpunq,hi ohnohummjusjqhoeuo
oex behoejhqxfoxsheuqhouyljqhqnpongfoychjgx behugqhuohbsjuohyjgboe,hno
zuph oojsychntmxppniyjhoxhsjmxsohzeuohejheuqhpunqkhOejhxgychmxngohxa
ngojsjpohzuphoeuohnohzuphpjooyjqhoejchpex yqhbxhuisxuqk

Qxyychfx yqhgxohejymhpnbengbkhEjshqjusjpohasnjgq,hejshpnpojs,hzuphbxngb
uzuckhUgqhejshynajhzuphgxohuhfejjsa yhxgjkhEjshsjyuonxgphznoehPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehuaojshoejnshsjfxgfnynuonxgheuqhijfxtjhe tnynuongbkhOej
 gnxghUgguheuqhfjtjgojqho sgjqhx ohoxhijhxahgxhpxynqhfeusufojs,hugq
autnycheustxgchzuphisjulngbhqxzghubunghuohoejhputjhmxngokhOejsjheuq
ijjghgxoengbhqjangnoj,hi ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzupheusqychjrjshuohextj;
txgjc,hoxx,hzupheusqychjrjshaxsoefxtngb,hugqhQxyychzuphfxgong uyyc
oxso sjqhichp pmnfnxgphxahnganqjynoc,hzenfehpejhosnjqhoxhqnptnpp,
qsjuqngbhoejhubxgnjphxah.juyx pchpejheuqhijjghoesx behuysjuqckhOej
anspohxgpyu beohxah.juyx pc,hxgfjhynrjqhoesx be,hfx yqhgjrjshfxtjhiufl
ubung,hugqhjrjghoejhqnpfxrjschxahnganqjynonjphfx yqhgjrjshgxzhuaajfo
ejshuphnoheuqhoejhanspohontjkhP fehuhqnpfxrjschgxzhzx yqhxgychtjug
isjulngbh mhautnycheuinop,hugqhpejhyjohejspjyahijhqjfjnrjq,hqjpmnpngb
enthugqhponyyhtxsjhejspjya,haxshoejhzjulgjppkhIjpnqjphoenp,hoejhfusjhxa
ejshyusbjhautnychzuphuhfxgpougohzxsschoxhejs:hanspo,hoejhg spngbhxahejs
cx gbhiuichqnqhgxohbxhzjyy,hoejghoejhg spjheuqhbxgjhuzuc,hgxzhxgjhxa
oejhfenyqsjgheuqhauyyjghnyyk

“Zjyy,hexzhusjhuyyhxahcx ?”hupljqhejshtxoejsk

“Ue,htuttu,hzjheurjhmyjgochxahosx iyjphxahx shxzgkhYnynhnphnyy,hugqhN’t
uasunqhno’phpfusyuongukhNheurjhfxtjhejsjhgxzhoxhejushuix ohLnooc,hugq
oejghNhpeuyyhpe ohtcpjyah mhjgonsjyc,hna—Bxqhaxsinq—nohpex yqhij
pfusyuonguk”

Oejhxyqhmsngfjhoxxheuqhfxtjhnghasxthenphpo qchuaojshoejhqxfoxs’p
qjmuso sj,hugqhuaojshmsjpjgongbhenphfejjlhoxhQxyyc,hugqhpucngbhuhajz
zxsqphoxhejs,hejho sgjqhoxhenphznaj:

“Exzheurjhcx hpjooyjqhno?hcx ’sjhbxngb?hZjyy,hugqhzeuohqxhcx htjughox
qxhznoehtj?”

“Nhp mmxpjhcx heuqhijoojshpouchejsj,hUyjvugqjs,”hpunqhenphznajk

“Oeuo’phuphcx hynljk”

“Tuttu,hzechpex yqg’ohauoejshfxtjhznoeh p?”hpunqhLnoockh“Nohzx yqhij
gnfjshaxshenthugqhaxsh phoxxk”

Oejhxyqhmsngfjhbxoh mhugqhposxljqhLnooc’pheunskhPejhynaojqhejshejuqhugq
yxxljqhuohenthznoehuhaxsfjqhptnyjkhNohuyzucphpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuohej
 gqjspoxxqhejshijoojshoeughugcxgjhnghoejhautnyc,hoex behejhqnqhgxohpuc
t fehuix ohejskhIjngbhoejhcx gbjpo,hpejhzuphejshauoejs’phaurxsnoj,hugq
pejhaugfnjqhoeuohenphyxrjhburjhenthngpnbeokhZejghgxzhejshbyugfjhtjohenp
iy jhlngqychjcjphyxxlngbhngojgoychuohejs,hnohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuohejhpuz
snbeohoesx behejs,hugqh gqjspoxxqhuyyhoeuohzuphgxohbxxqhoeuohzup
muppngbhznoenghejskhSjqqjgngb,hpejhposjofejqhx ohoxzusqphenthjvmjfongb
uhlnpp,hi ohejhxgychmuoojqhejsheunshugqhpunq:

“Oejpjhpo mnqhfenbgxgp!hOejsj’phgxhbjoongbhuohoejhsjuyhqu beojskhXgj
pntmychposxljphoejhisnpoyjphxahqjuqhzxtjgkhZjyy,hQxynglu,”hejho sgjqhox
enphjyqjshqu beojs,h“zeuo’phcx shcx gbhi flhuix o,hejc?”

“Gxoengb,hauoejs,”hugpzjsjqhQxyyc,h gqjspougqngbhoeuohejshe piugqhzup
tjugokh“Ej’phuyzucphx o;hNhpfusfjychjrjshpjjhent,”hpejhfx yqhgxohsjpnpo
uqqngbhznoehuhpusfuponfhptnyjk

“Zec,heupg’ohejhbxgjhngoxhoejhfx goschcjo—oxhpjjhuix ohpjyyngbhoeuo
axsjpo?”

“Gx,hej’phponyyhbjoongbhsjuqchaxshoejh.x sgjck”

“Xe,hoeuo’phno!”hpunqhoejhmsngfjkh“UgqhpxhuthNhoxhijhbjoongbhsjuqchaxs
uh.x sgjchoxx?hUohcx shpjsrnfj,”hejhpunqhoxhenphznaj,hpnoongbhqxzgk
“UgqhNhojyyhcx hzeuo,hLuonu,”hejhzjgohxghoxhenphcx gbjshqu beojs,h“cx 
t pohzuljh mhxgjhangjhquchugqhpuchoxhcx spjya:hZec,hN’thw nojhzjyy,hugq
tjssc,hugqhbxngbhx ohubunghznoehauoejshaxshughjusychtxsgngbhzuylhnghoej
asxpokhEjc?”

Zeuohejshauoejshpunqhpjjtjqhpntmyjhjgx be,hcjohuohoejpjhzxsqphLnooc
ijfutjhfxga pjqhugqhxrjsfxtjhynljhuhqjojfojqhfsntnguykh“Cjp,hejhpjjphno
uyy,hejh gqjspougqphnohuyy,hugqhnghoejpjhzxsqphej’phojyyngbhtjhoeuo
oex behN’thupeutjq,hNht pohbjohxrjshtchpeutjk”hPejhfx yqhgxohmy flh m
pmnsnohoxhtuljhugchugpzjskhPejhosnjqhoxhijbng,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjhi spo
ngoxhojusp,hugqhs pejqhx ohxahoejhsxxtk

“Pjjhzeuohfxtjphxahcx sh.xljp!”hoejhmsngfjpphmx gfjqhqxzghxghejs
e piugqkh“Cx ’sjhuyzucpkkkk”hpejhijbughuhposngbhxahsjmsxufejpk

Oejhmsngfjhynpojgjqhoxhoejhmsngfjpp’phpfxyqngbhsuoejshuhyxgbhzenyj
znoex ohpmjulngb,hi ohenphaufjhzuphtxsjhugqhtxsjhasxzgngbk

“Pej’phpxht fehoxhijhmnonjq,hmxxshfenyq,hpxht fehoxhijhmnonjq,hugqhcx 
qxg’ohajjyhexzhnohe sophejshoxhejushoejhpynbeojpohsjajsjgfjhoxhoej
fu pjhxahnokhUe!hoxhijhpxhtnpouljghnghmjxmyj!”hpunqhoejhmsngfjpp,hugq
ichoejhfeugbjhnghejshoxgjhixoehQxyychugqhoejhmsngfjhlgjzhpejhzup
pmjulngbhxahRsxgplckh“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzechoejsjhusjg’ohyuzphubungpohp fe
iupj,hqnpexgxsuiyjhmjxmyjk”

“Ue,hNhfug’ohijushoxhejushcx !”hpunqhoejhmsngfjhbyxxtnyc,hbjoongbh m
asxthenphyxzhfeuns,hugqhpjjtngbhugvnx phoxhbjohuzuc,hcjohpoxmmngbhng
oejhqxxszuckh“Oejsjhusjhyuzp,htuqut,hugqhpngfjhcx ’rjhfeuyyjgbjqhtjhox
no,hN’yyhojyyhcx hzex’phoxhiyutjhaxshnohuyy:hcx hugqhcx ,hcx hugq
gxixqchjypjkhYuzphubungpohp fehcx gbhbuyyugophoejsjheurjhuyzucphijjg,
ugqhoejsjhponyyhusj!hCjp,hnahoejsjheuphijjghgxoengbhoeuohx beohgxohox
eurjhijjg,hxyqhuphNhut,hN’qheurjhfuyyjqhenthx ohoxhoejhiussnjs,hoej
cx gbhqugqckhCjp,hugqhgxzhcx hmecpnfhejshugqhfuyyhnghoejpjhw uflpk”

Oejhmsngfjhummusjgoycheuqhmyjgochtxsjhoxhpuc,hi ohuphpxxghuphoej
msngfjpphejusqhenphoxgjhpejhp ipnqjqhuohxgfj,hugqhijfutjhmjgnojgo,hup
pejhuyzucphqnqhxghpjsnx phxffupnxgpk

“Uyjvugqjs,hUyjvugqjs,”hpejhzenpmjsjq,htxrngbhoxhenthugqhijbnggngbhox
zjjmk

UphpxxghuphpejhijbughoxhfschoejhmsngfjhoxxhfuytjqhqxzgkhEjhzjgoh mhox
ejsk

“Oejsj,hoeuo’phjgx be,hoeuo’phjgx be!hCx ’sjhzsjofejqhoxx,hNhlgxzkhNo
fug’ohijhejymjqkhOejsj’phgxhbsjuoheusthqxgjkhBxqhnphtjsfna yhkkk
oeuglpkkkk”hejhpunq,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohejhzuphpucngb,huphejhsjpmxgqjqhox
oejhojusa yhlnpphxahoejhmsngfjpphoeuohejhajyohxghenpheugqkhUgqhoej
msngfjhzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxtk

Ijaxsjhoenp,huphpxxghuphLnoochzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxthnghojusp,hQxyyc,
znoehejshtxoejsyc,hautnychngpongfop,heuqhmsxtmoychmjsfjnrjqhoeuohejsjhu
zxtug’phzxslhyuchijaxsjhejs,hugqhpejhmsjmusjqhoxhqxhnokhPejhoxxlhxaa
ejsheuo,hugq,htxsuyychpmjulngb,ho fljqh mhejshpyjjrjphugqhmsjmusjqhaxs
ufonxgkhZenyjhejshtxoejshzuphuoouflngbhejshauoejs,hpejhosnjqhox
sjposunghejshtxoejs,hpxhaushuphanynuyhsjrjsjgfjhzx yqhuyyxzkhQ sngbhoej
msngfj’phx oi spohpejhzuphpnyjgo;hpejhajyohupeutjqhaxshejshtxoejs,hugq
ojgqjshoxzusqphejshauoejshaxshpxhw nflychijngbhlngqhubungkhI ohzejghejs
auoejshyjaohoejthpejhtuqjhsjuqchaxshzeuohzuphoejhfenjahoengbhgjjqa y—ox
bxhoxhLnoochugqhfxgpxyjhejsk

“N’qhijjghtjugngbhoxhojyyhcx hpxtjoengbhaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,htuttu:hqnq
cx hlgxzhoeuohYjrnghtjugohoxhtuljhLnoochughxaajshzejghejhzuphejsjhoej
yupohontj?hEjhoxyqhPonruhpxk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohoejg?hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqkkkk”

“PxhqnqhLnoochmjseumphsja pjhent?kkkhPejhqnqg’ohojyyhcx hpx?”

“Gx,hpejheuphpunqhgxoengbhoxhtjhjnoejshxahxgjhxshoejhxoejs;hpej’phoxx
msx qkhI ohNhlgxzhno’phuyyhxghuffx gohxahoejhxoejsk”

“Cjp,hi ohp mmxpjhpejheuphsja pjqhYjrng,hugqhpejhzx yqg’oheurjhsja pjq
enthnahnoheuqg’ohijjghaxshoejhxoejs,hNhlgxzkhUgqhoejg,hejheuphqjfjnrjq
ejshpxhexssniyck”

Nohzuphoxxhojssniyjhaxshoejhmsngfjpphoxhoenglhexzhpejheuqhpnggjq
ubungpohejshqu beojs,hugqhpejhisxljhx ohugbsnyck

“Xe,hNhsjuyychqxg’oh gqjspougq!hGxzuqucphoejchznyyhuyyhbxhoejnshxzg
zuc,hugqhtxoejspheurjg’ohuhzxsqhoxhpuchnghugcoengb,hugqhoejgkkkk”

“Tuttu,hN’yyhbxh mhoxhejsk”

“Zjyy,hqxkhQnqhNhojyyhcx hgxohox?”hpunqhejshtxoejsk


Feumojsh3

ZejghpejhzjgohngoxhLnooc’phynooyjhsxxt,huhmsjooc,hmnglhynooyjhsxxt,
a yyhxahlgnfl-lguflphngh_rnj vhpuvj,_huphasjpe,hugqhmngl,hugqhzenoj,
ugqhbuchuphLnoochejspjyaheuqhijjghozxhtxgoephubx,hQxyychsjtjtijsjqhexz
oejcheuqhqjfxsuojqhoejhsxxthoejhcjushijaxsjhoxbjoejs,hznoehzeuohyxrj
ugqhbunjockhEjshejusoho sgjqhfxyqhzejghpejhpuzhLnoochpnoongbhxghuhyxz
feunshgjushoejhqxxs,hejshjcjphanvjqhnttxruiychxghuhfxsgjshxahoejhs bk
Lnoochbyugfjqhuohejshpnpojs,hugqhoejhfxyq,hsuoejshnyy-ojtmjsjq
jvmsjppnxghxahejshaufjhqnqhgxohfeugbjk

“N’th. pohbxngbhgxz,hugqhNhpeuyyheurjhoxhljjmhnghugqhcx hzxg’ohijhuiyj
oxhfxtjhoxhpjjhtj,”hpunqhQxyyc,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhejskh“Nhzugohox
ouylhoxhcx k”

“Zeuohuix o?”hLnoochupljqhpznaoyc,hynaongbhejshejuqhnghqnptuck

“Zeuohpex yqhnohij,hi ohcx shosx iyj?”

“Nheurjhgxhosx iyjk”

“Gxgpjgpj,hLnoockhQxhcx hp mmxpjhNhfx yqhejymhlgxzngb?hNhlgxzhuyyhuix o
nokhUgqhijynjrjhtj,hno’phxahpxhynooyjhfxgpjw jgfjkkkkhZj’rjhuyyhijjg
oesx behnok”

Lnoochqnqhgxohpmjul,hugqhejshaufjheuqhuhpojsghjvmsjppnxgk

“Ej’phgxohzxsoehcx shbsnjrngbhxrjshent,”hm sp jqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,
fxtngbhposunbeohoxhoejhmxngok

“Gx,hijfu pjhejheuphosjuojqhtjhznoehfxgojtmo,”hpunqhLnooc,hnghu
isjulngbhrxnfjkh“Qxg’ohouylhxahno!hMyjupj,hqxg’ohouylhxahno!”

“I ohzexhfugheurjhoxyqhcx hpx?hGxhxgjheuphpunqhoeuokhN’thfjsounghejhzup
nghyxrjhznoehcx ,hugqhzx yqhponyyhijhnghyxrjhznoehcx ,hnahnoheuqg’okkkk

“Xe,hoejhtxpohuza yhoengbhxahuyyhaxshtjhnphoenphpctmuoendngb!”hpesnjljq
Lnooc,hp qqjgychaycngbhngoxhuhmuppnxgkhPejho sgjqhsx gqhxghejshfeuns,
ay pejqhfsntpxg,hugqhsumnqychtxrngbhejshangbjsp,hmngfejqhoejhfyupmhxa
ejshijyohanspohznoehxgjheugqhugqhoejghznoehoejhxoejskhQxyychlgjzhoenp
osnflhejshpnpojsheuqhxahfyjgfengbhejsheugqphzejghpejhzupht fehjvfnojq;
pejhlgjz,hoxx,hoeuohnghtxtjgophxahjvfnojtjgohLnoochzuphfumuiyjhxa
axsbjoongbhejspjyahugqhpucngbhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxxht fe,hugqhQxyychzx yq
eurjhpxxoejqhejs,hi ohnohzuphoxxhyuojk

“Zeuo,hzeuohnphnohcx hzugohoxhtuljhtjhajjy,hje?”hpunqhLnoochw nflyck
“OeuohN’rjhijjghnghyxrjhznoehuhtughzexhqnqg’ohfusjhuhposuzhaxshtj,hugq
oeuohN’thqcngbhxahyxrjhaxshent?hUgqhoenphnphpunqhoxhtjhichtchxzg
pnpojs,hzexhntubngjphoeuohkkkhoeuohkkkhoeuohpej’phpctmuoendngbhznoe
tj!kkkhNhqxg’ohzugohoejpjhfxgqxyjgfjphugqhe ti b!”

“Lnooc,hcx ’sjh g. pok”

“Zechusjhcx hoxstjgongbhtj?”

“I ohNhkkkhw nojhoejhfxgosuschkkkhNhpjjhcx ’sjh geummckkkk”

I ohLnoochnghejsha schqnqhgxohejushejsk

“N’rjhgxoengbhoxhbsnjrjhxrjshugqhijhfxtaxsojqhuix okhNhuthoxxhmsx q
jrjshoxhuyyxzhtcpjyahoxhfusjhaxshuhtughzexhqxjphgxohyxrjhtjk”

“Cjp,hNhqxg’ohpuchpxhjnoejskkkkhXgychxgjhoengbkhOjyyhtjhoejhos oe,”
punqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,houlngbhejshichoejheugq:h“ojyyhtj,hqnqhYjrng
pmjulhoxhcx ?kkk”

OejhtjgonxghxahYjrng’phgutjhpjjtjqhoxhqjmsnrjhLnoochxahoejhyupohrjponbj
xahpjya-fxgosxykhPejhyjumjqh mhasxthejshfeuns,hugqhayngbngbhejshfyupm
xghoejhbsx gq,hpejhbjponf yuojqhsumnqychznoehejsheugqphugqhpunq:

“ZechisngbhYjrnghnghoxx?hNhfug’oh gqjspougqhzeuohcx hzugohoxhoxstjgohtj
axskhN’rjhoxyqhcx ,hugqhNhpuchnohubung,hoeuohNheurjhpxtjhmsnqj,hugq
gjrjs,h_gjrjs_hzx yqhNhqxhuphcx ’sjhqxngb—bxhiuflhoxhuhtughzex’p
qjfjnrjqhcx ,hzexheuphfusjqhaxshugxoejshzxtugkhNhfug’oh gqjspougqhno!
Cx htuc,hi ohNhfug’o!”

Ugqhpucngbhoejpjhzxsqphpejhbyugfjqhuohejshpnpojs,hugqhpjjngbhoeuohQxyyc
puohpnyjgo,hejshejuqhtx sga yychixzjq,hLnooc,hngpojuqhxahs ggngbhx ohxa
oejhsxxthuphpejheuqhtjugohoxhqx,hpuohqxzghgjushoejhqxxs,hugqhenqhejs
aufjhnghejsheugqljsfenjak

Oejhpnyjgfjhyupojqhaxshozxhtng ojp:hQxyychzuphoenglngbhxahejspjyakhOeuo
e tnynuonxghxahzenfehpejhzuphuyzucphfxgpfnx phfutjhiuflhoxhejshznoehu
mjf ynushinoojsgjpphzejghejshpnpojshsjtngqjqhejshxahnokhPejheuqhgxo
yxxljqhaxshp fehfs jyochnghejshpnpojs,hugqhpejhzuphugbschznoehejskhI o
p qqjgychpejhejusqhoejhs poyjhxahuhplnso,hugqhznoehnohoejhpx gqhxa
ejuso-sjgqngb,hptxoejsjqhpxiingb,hugqhajyohustphuix ohejshgjflkhLnooc
zuphxghejshlgjjphijaxsjhejsk

“Qxynglu,hNhuthpx,hpxhzsjofejq!”hpejhzenpmjsjqhmjgnojgoyckhUgqhoej
pzjjohaufjhfxrjsjqhznoehojusphenqhnopjyahnghQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phplnsok

Uphoex behojusphzjsjhoejhngqnpmjgpuiyjhxny,hznoex ohzenfehoejhtufengjsc
xaht o uyhfxganqjgfjhfx yqhgxohs ghptxxoeychijozjjghoejhozxhpnpojsp,
oejhpnpojsphuaojshoejnshojusphouyljq,hgxohxahzeuohzuph mmjstxpohng
oejnshtngqp,hi o,hoex behoejchouyljqhxahx opnqjhtuoojsp,hoejc
 gqjspoxxqhjufehxoejskhLnoochlgjzhoeuohoejhzxsqphpejheuqh oojsjqhng
ugbjshuix ohejshe piugq’phnganqjynochugqhejshe tnynuongbhmxpnonxgheuq
f ohejshmxxshpnpojshoxhoejhejuso,hi ohoeuohpejheuqhaxsbnrjghejskhQxyyc
axshejshmusohlgjzhuyyhpejheuqhzugojqhoxhangqhx okhPejhajyohfjsounghoeuo
ejshp stnpjphzjsjhfxssjfo;hoeuohLnooc’phtnpjsc,hejshngfxgpxyuiyj
tnpjsc,hzuphq jhmsjfnpjychoxhoejhaufohoeuohYjrngheuqhtuqjhejshughxaajs
ugqhpejheuqhsja pjqhent,hugqhRsxgplcheuqhqjfjnrjqhejs,hugqhoeuohpejhzup
a yychmsjmusjqhoxhyxrjhYjrnghugqhoxhqjojpohRsxgplckhLnoochpunqhgxohu
zxsqhxahoeuo;hpejhouyljqhxahgxoengbhi ohejshpmnsno uyhfxgqnonxgk

“Nheurjhgxoengbhoxhtuljhtjhtnpjsuiyj,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbhfuytjs;h“i o
fughcx h gqjspougqhoeuohjrjscoengbheuphijfxtjheuoja y,hyxuoepxtj,
fxuspjhoxhtj,hugqhNhtcpjyahtxpohxahuyy?hCx hfug’ohntubngjhzeuo
yxuoepxtjhoex beophNheurjhuix ohjrjscoengbk”

“Zec,hzeuojrjshyxuoepxtjhoex beophfughcx heurj?”hupljqhQxyyc,hptnyngbk

“Oejhtxpoh oojsychyxuoepxtjhugqhfxuspj:hNhfug’ohojyyhcx khNo’phgxo
 geummngjpp,hxshyxzhpmnsnop,hi oht fehzxspjkhUphoex behjrjscoengbhoeuo
zuphbxxqhnghtjhzuphuyyhenqqjghuzuc,hugqhgxoengbhzuphyjaohi ohoejhtxpo
yxuoepxtjkhFxtj,hexzhuthNhoxhojyyhcx ?”hpejhzjgohxg,hpjjngbhoejhm ddyjq
yxxlhnghejshpnpojs’phjcjpkh“Auoejshijbughpucngbhpxtjoengbhoxhtjh. po
gxzkkkkhNohpjjtphoxhtjhejhoenglphuyyhNhzugohnphoxhijhtussnjqkhTxoejs
ouljphtjhoxhuhiuyy:hnohpjjtphoxhtjhpejhxgychouljphtjhoxhbjohtjhtussnjq
xaahuphpxxghuphtuchij,hugqhijhsnqhxahtjkhNhlgxzhno’phgxohoejhos oe,hi o
Nhfug’ohqsnrjhuzuchp fehoex beopkhJynbniyjhp noxsp,huphoejchfuyyhoejt—N
fug’ohijushoxhpjjhoejtkhNohpjjtphoxhtjhoejc’sjhoulngbhpoxflhxahtjhugq
p ttngbhtjh mkhNghxyqhqucphoxhbxhugczejsjhnghuhiuyyhqsjpphzuphuhpntmyj
.xchoxhtj,hNhuqtnsjqhtcpjya;hgxzhNhajjyhupeutjqhugqhuzlzusqkhUgqhoejg!
OejhqxfoxskkkkhOejgkkkk”hLnoochejpnouojq;hpejhzugojqhoxhpucha soejs
oeuohjrjshpngfjhoenphfeugbjheuqhouljghmyufjhnghejs,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
euqhijfxtjhngp aajsuiychsjm ypnrjhoxhejs,hugqhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohpjj
enthznoex ohoejhbsxppjpohugqhtxpohenqjx phfxgfjmonxgphsnpngbhijaxsjhejs
ntubnguonxgk

“Xe,hzjyy,hjrjscoengbhmsjpjgophnopjyahoxhtj,hnghoejhfxuspjpo,htxpo
yxuoepxtjhynbeo,”hpejhzjgohxgkh“Oeuo’phtchnyygjppkhMjseumphnohznyyhmupp
xaak”

“I ohcx ht pog’ohoenglhuix ohnok”

“Nhfug’ohejymhnokhN’thgjrjsheummchjvfjmohznoehoejhfenyqsjghuohcx s
ex pjk”

“Zeuohuhmnochcx hfug’ohijhznoehtj!”

“Xe,hcjp,hN’thfxtngbkhN’rjheuqhpfusyuongu,hugqhN’yyhmjsp uqjhtuttuhox
yjohtjk”

Lnoochngpnpojqhxgheurngbhejshzuc,hugqhzjgohoxhpouchuohejshpnpojs’phugq
g spjqhoejhfenyqsjghuyyhoesx behoejhpfusyuongu,haxshpfusyuonguhno
o sgjqhx ohoxhijkhOejhozxhpnpojsphisx beohuyyhoejhpnvhfenyqsjg
p ffjppa yychoesx behno,hi ohLnoochzuphgxhijoojshnghejuyoe,hugqhnghYjgo
oejhPeofejsiuoplcphzjgohuisxuqk


Feumojsh4

OejhenbejpohMjojspi sbhpxfnjochnphjppjgonuyychxgj:hnghnohjrjscxgjhlgxzp
jrjscxgjhjypj,hjrjscxgjhjrjghrnpnophjrjscxgjhjypjkhI ohoenphbsjuohpjo
euphnophp iqnrnpnxgpkhUgguhUsluqcjrguhLusjgnguheuqhasnjgqphugqhfyxpj
onjphnghoesjjhqnaajsjgohfnsfyjphxahoenphenbejpohpxfnjockhXgjhfnsfyjhzup
ejshe piugq’phbxrjsgtjgohxaanfnuyhpjo,hfxgpnpongbhxahenphfxyyjub jphugq
p ixsqnguojp,hisx beohoxbjoejshnghoejhtxpohrusnx phugqhfumsnfnx p
tuggjs,hugqhijyxgbngbhoxhqnaajsjgohpxfnuyhposuoukhUgguhax gqhno
qnaanf yohgxzhoxhsjfuyyhoejhajjyngbhxahuytxpohuzj-posnfljghsjrjsjgfj
zenfehpejheuqhuohanspohjgojsoungjqhaxshoejpjhmjspxgpkhGxzhpejhlgjzhuyy
xahoejthuphmjxmyjhlgxzhxgjhugxoejshnghuhfx goschoxzg;hpejhlgjzhoejns
euinophugqhzjulgjppjp,hugqhzejsjhoejhpexjhmngfejqhjufehxgjhxahoejtkhPej
lgjzhoejnshsjyuonxgphznoehxgjhugxoejshugqhznoehoejhejuqhu oexsnonjp,
lgjzhzexhzuphaxshzext,hugqhexzhjufehxgjhtungoungjqhenphmxpnonxg,hugq
zejsjhoejchubsjjqhugqhqnpubsjjqkhI ohoejhfnsfyjhxahmxynonfuy,htupf yngj
ngojsjpopheuqhgjrjshngojsjpojqhejs,hnghpmnojhxahfx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrgu’phngay jgfj,hugqhpejhurxnqjqhnok

UgxoejshynooyjhpjohznoehzenfehUgguhzuphnghfyxpjhsjyuonxgphzuphoejhxgj
ichtjugphxahzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhtuqjhenphfusjjskhOejhfjgojs
xahoenphfnsfyjhzuphoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgukhNohzuphuhpjohtuqjh mhxa
jyqjsyc,h byc,hijgjrxyjgo,hugqhbxqychzxtjg,hugqhfyjrjs,hyjusgjq,hugq
utinonx phtjgkhXgjhxahoejhfyjrjshmjxmyjhijyxgbngbhoxhoejhpjoheuqhfuyyjq
noh“oejhfxgpfnjgfjhxahMjojspi sbhpxfnjock”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuq
oejhenbejpohjpojjthaxshoenphfnsfyj,hugqhUgguhznoehejshpmjfnuyhbnaohaxs
bjoongbhxghznoehjrjscxgj,heuqhnghoejhjusychqucphxahejshynajhng
Mjojspi sbhtuqjhasnjgqphnghoenphfnsfyjhuypxkhGxz,hpngfjhejshsjo sghasxt
Txpfxz,hpejheuqhfxtjhoxhajjyhoenphpjohngp aajsuiyjkhNohpjjtjqhoxhejs
oeuohixoehpejhugqhuyyhxahoejthzjsjhngpngfjsj,hugqhpejhajyohpxhixsjqhugq
nyyhuohjupjhnghoeuohzxsyqhoeuohpejhzjgohoxhpjjhoejhFx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrguhuphynooyjhuphmxppniyjk

OejhoensqhfnsfyjhznoehzenfehUgguheuqhonjphzuphmsjjtngjgoychoej
aupenxguiyjhzxsyq—oejhzxsyqhxahiuyyp,hxahqnggjsp,hxahp tmo x phqsjppjp,
oejhzxsyqhoeuohe gbhxghoxhoejhfx sohznoehxgjheugq,hpxhuphoxhurxnq
pnglngbhoxhoejhyjrjyhxahoejhqjtn-txgqjkhAxshoejhqjtn-txgqjhoejhtjtijsp
xahoeuohaupenxguiyjhzxsyqhijynjrjqhoeuohoejchqjpmnpjq,hoex behoejns
oupojphzjsjhgxohtjsjychpntnyus,hi ohnghaufohnqjgonfuykhEjshfxggjfonxg
znoehoenphfnsfyjhzuphljmoh mhoesx behMsngfjpphIjopchOrjsplucu,hejs
fx png’phznaj,hzexheuqhughngfxtjhxahuhe gqsjqhugqhozjgochoex pugq
sx iyjp,hugqhzexheuqhouljghuhbsjuohaugfchoxhUgguhjrjshpngfjhpejhanspo
futjhx o,hpexzjqhejsht fehuoojgonxg,hugqhqsjzhejshngoxhejshpjo,htulngb
a ghxahFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu’phfxojsnjk

“ZejghN’thxyqhugqh bychN’yyhijhoejhputj,”hIjopch pjqhoxhpuc;h“i ohaxshu
msjoochcx gbhzxtughynljhcx hno’phjusychqucphaxshoeuohex pjhxahfeusnock”

Ugguheuqhuohanspohurxnqjqhuphaushuphpejhfx yqhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’p
zxsyq,hijfu pjhnohgjfjppnouojqhughjvmjgqno sjhijcxgqhejshtjugp,hugq
ijpnqjphnghejshejusohpejhmsjajssjqhoejhanspohfnsfyjkhI ohpngfjhejs
rnpnohoxhTxpfxzhpejheuqhqxgjhw nojhoejhfxgosusckhPejhurxnqjqhejs
pjsnx p-tngqjqhasnjgqp,hugqhzjgohx ohngoxhoejhaupenxguiyjhzxsyqkhOejsj
pejhtjohRsxgplc,hugqhjvmjsnjgfjqhughubnouongbh.xchuohoexpjhtjjongbpk
PejhtjohRsxgplchpmjfnuyychxaojghuohIjopc’phaxshIjopchzuphuhRsxgplchic
insoehugqhenphfx pngkhRsxgplchzuphjrjsczejsjhzejsjhejheuqhugchfeugfjhxa
tjjongbhUggu,hugqhpmjulngbhoxhejs,hzejghejhfx yq,hxahenphyxrjkhPejhburj
enthgxhjgfx subjtjgo,hi ohjrjschontjhpejhtjohenthoejsjhp sbjqh mhnghejs
ejusohoeuohputjhajjyngbhxahw nfljgjqhynajhoeuoheuqhfxtjh mxghejshoeuo
quchnghoejhsunyzuchfussnubjhzejghpejhpuzhenthaxshoejhanspohontjkhPej
zuphfxgpfnx phejspjyahoeuohejshqjynbeohpmuslyjqhnghejshjcjphugqhf srjq
ejshynmphngoxhuhptnyj,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohw jgfehoejhjvmsjppnxghxahoenp
qjynbeok

UohanspohUgguhpngfjsjychijynjrjqhoeuohpejhzuphqnpmyjupjqhznoehenthaxs
qusngbhoxhm sp jhejskhPxxghuaojshejshsjo sghasxthTxpfxz,hxghussnrngbhuo
uh_pxnséj_hzejsjhpejheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhtjjohent,hugqhgxohangqngbhent
oejsj,hpejhsjuyndjqhqnpongfoychasxthoejhs pehxahqnpummxngotjgohoeuohpej
euqhijjghqjfjnrngbhejspjya,hugqhoeuohoenphm sp nohzuphgxohtjsjychgxo
qnpoupoja yhoxhejs,hi ohoeuohnohtuqjhoejhzexyjhngojsjpohxahejshynajk



Oejhfjyjisuojqhpngbjshzuphpngbngbhaxshoejhpjfxgqhontj,hugqhuyyhoej
aupenxguiyjhzxsyqhzuphnghoejhoejuojskhRsxgplc,hpjjngbhenphfx pnghasxt
enphpouyyhnghoejhasxgohsxz,hqnqhgxohzunohonyyhoejh_jgos’ufoj_,hi ohzjgo
oxhejshixvk

“Zechqnqg’ohcx hfxtjhoxhqnggjs?”hpejhpunqhoxhentkh“Nhtusrjyhuohoej
pjfxgqhpnbeohxahyxrjsp,”hpejhuqqjqhznoehuhptnyj,hpxhoeuohgxhxgjhi ohej
fx yqhejus;h“_pejhzupg’ohoejsj_khI ohfxtjhuaojshoejhxmjsuk”

Rsxgplchyxxljqhngw nsngbychuohejskhPejhgxqqjqkhEjhoeugljqhejshichu
ptnyj,hugqhpuohqxzghijpnqjhejsk

“I ohexzhNhsjtjtijshcx sh.jjsp!”hfxgong jqhMsngfjpphIjopc,hzexhoxxlhu
mjf ynushmyjup sjhnghaxyyxzngbh mhoenphmuppnxghoxhuhp ffjppa yhnpp jk
“Zeuo’phijfxtjhxahuyyhoeuo?hCx ’sjhfu beo,htchqjushixck”

“Oeuo’phtchxgjhqjpnsj,hoxhijhfu beo,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hznoehenp
pjsjgj,hbxxq-e txsjqhptnyjkh“NahNhfxtmyunghxahugcoengbhno’phxgychoeuo
N’thgxohfu beohjgx be,hoxhojyyhoejhos oekhNhijbnghoxhyxpjhexmjk”

“Zec,hzeuojrjshexmjhfughcx heurj?”hpunqhIjopc,hxaajgqjqhxghijeuyahxa
ejshasnjgqkh“_Jgojgqxgphgx pkkkk_”hI ohnghejshjcjphoejsjhzjsjhbyjutphxa
ynbeohoeuohijosucjqhoeuohpejh gqjspoxxqhmjsajfoychugqhmsjfnpjychuphej
qnqhzeuohexmjhejhtnbeoheurjk

“Gxgjhzeuojrjs,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hyu bengbhugqhpexzngbhenphjrjghsxzphxa
ojjoekh“Jvf pjhtj,”hejhuqqjq,houlngbhughxmjsu-byupphx ohxahejsheugq,
ugqhmsxfjjqngbhoxhpfs ongndj,hxrjshejshiusjhpex yqjs,hoejhsxzhxahixvjp
aufngbhoejtkh“N’thuasunqhN’thijfxtngbhsnqnf yx pk”

Ejhzuphrjschzjyyhuzusjhoeuohejhsughgxhsnplhxahijngbhsnqnf yx phnghoej
jcjphxahIjopchxshugchxoejshaupenxguiyjhmjxmyjkhEjhzuphrjschzjyyhuzusj
oeuohnghoejnshjcjphoejhmxpnonxghxahugh gp ffjppa yhyxrjshxahuhbnsy,hxs
xahugchzxtughasjjhoxhtussc,htnbeohijhsnqnf yx pkhI ohoejhmxpnonxghxahu
tughm sp ngbhuhtussnjqhzxtug,hugq,hsjbusqyjpphxahjrjscoengb,hpoulngb
enphynajhxghqsuzngbhejshngoxhuq yojsc,heuphpxtjoengbhangjhugqhbsugq
uix ohno,hugqhfughgjrjshijhsnqnf yx p;hugqhpxhnohzuphznoehuhmsx qhugq
buchptnyjh gqjshenpht poufejphoeuohejhyxzjsjqhoejhxmjsu-byupphugq
yxxljqhuohenphfx pngk

“I ohzechzuphnohcx hqnqg’ohfxtjhoxhqnggjs?”hpejhpunq,huqtnsngbhentk

“Nht pohojyyhcx huix ohoeuokhNhzuphi pnychjtmyxcjq,hugqhqxngbhzeuo,hqx
cx hp mmxpj?hN’yyhbnrjhcx huhe gqsjqhb jppjp,huhoex pugqhkkkhcx ’q
gjrjshb jppkhN’rjhijjghsjfxgfnyngbhuhe piugqhznoehuhtughzex’qhngp yojq
enphznajkhCjp,hsjuyyc!”

“Zjyy,hqnqhcx hp ffjjq?”

“Uytxpok”

“Cx hsjuyycht pohojyyhtjhuix ohno,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh mkh“Fxtjhoxhtj
nghoejhgjvoh_jgos’ufojk_”

“Nhfug’o;hN’thbxngbhoxhoejhAsjgfehoejuojsk”

“AsxthGnyppxg?”hIjopchw jsnjqhnghexssxs,hoex behpejhfx yqhgxohejspjya
eurjhqnpongb npejqhGnyppxg’phrxnfjhasxthugchfexs phbnsy’pk

“Fug’ohejymhnokhN’rjhughummxngotjgohoejsj,huyyhoxhqxhznoehtchtnppnxghxa
mjufjk”

“‘Iyjppjqhusjhoejhmjufjtuljsp;hoejnsphnphoejhlngbqxthxahejurjg,’”hpunq
Ijopc,hrub jychsjfxyyjfongbhpejheuqhejusqhpxtjhpntnyushpucngbhasxt
pxtjxgjkh“Rjschzjyy,hoejg,hpnohqxzg,hugqhojyyhtjhzeuohno’phuyyhuix ok”

Ugqhpejhpuohqxzghubungk


Feumojsh5

“Oenphnphsuoejshngqnpfsjjo,hi ohno’phpxhbxxqhno’phughuza yhojtmouonxg
oxhojyyhoejhpoxsc,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hyxxlngbhuohejshznoehenphyu bengb
jcjpkh“N’thgxohbxngbhoxhtjgonxghugchgutjpk”

“I ohNhpeuyyhb jpp,hpxht fehoejhijoojsk”

“Zjyy,hynpojg:hozxhajponrjhcx gbhtjghzjsjhqsnrngb—”

“Xaanfjsphxahcx shsjbntjgo,hxahfx spj?”

“Nhqnqg’ohpuchoejchzjsjhxaanfjsp,—ozxhcx gbhtjghzexheuqhijjghy gfengbk”

“Nghxoejshzxsqp,hqsnglngbk”

“MxppniyckhOejchzjsjhqsnrngbhxghoejnshzuchoxhqnggjshznoehuhasnjgqhng
oejhtxpohajponrjhpouojhxahtngqkhUgqhoejchijejyqhuhmsjoochzxtughnghu
ensjqhpyjqbj;hpejhxrjsouljphoejt,hyxxlphsx gqhuohoejt,hugq,hpxhoejc
augfchugczuc,hgxqphoxhoejthugqhyu bepkhOejc,hxahfx spj,haxyyxzhejsk
Oejchbuyyxmhuoha yyhpmjjqkhOxhoejnshutudjtjgo,hoejhaunshxgjhuynbeophuo
oejhjgosugfjhxahoejhrjschex pjhoxhzenfehoejchzjsjhbxngbkhOejhaunshxgj
qusoph mpounsphoxhoejhoxmhpoxsckhOejchbjohuhbyntmpjhxahsjqhynmph gqjshu
pexsohrjny,hugqhjvw npnojhynooyjhajjok”

“Cx hqjpfsnijhnohznoehp fehajjyngbhoeuohNhaugfchcx ht pohijhxgjhxahoej
ozxk”

“Ugqhuaojshzeuohcx hpunq,h. pohgxz!hZjyy,hoejhcx gbhtjghbxhnghoxhoejns
fxtsuqj’p;hejhzuphbnrngbhuhausjzjyyhqnggjskhOejsjhoejchfjsoungychqnq
qsnglhuhynooyjhoxxht fe,huphxgjhuyzucphqxjphuohausjzjyyhqnggjspkhUgqhuo
qnggjshoejchngw nsjhzexhynrjphuohoejhoxmhnghoeuohex pjkhGxhxgjhlgxzp;
xgychoejnshexpo’phruyjo,hnghugpzjshoxhoejnshngw nschzejoejshugch‘cx gb
yuqnjp’husjhynrngbhxghoejhoxmhayxxs,hugpzjsjqhoeuohoejsjhzjsjhuhbsjuo
tugchxahoejthuix ohoejsjkhUaojshqnggjshoejhozxhcx gbhtjghbxhngoxhoejns
expo’phpo qc,hugqhzsnojhuhyjoojshoxhoejh glgxzghaunshxgjkhOejchfxtmxpj
ughusqjgohjmnpoyj,huhqjfyusuonxghnghaufo,hugqhoejchfusschoejhyjoojs
 mpounsphoejtpjyrjp,hpxhuphoxhjy fnquojhzeuojrjshtnbeohummjushgxo
mjsajfoychngojyynbniyjhnghoejhyjoojsk”

“Zechusjhcx hojyyngbhtjhoejpjhexssniyjhpoxsnjp?hZjyy?”

“OejchsngbkhUhtunq-pjsrugohxmjgphoejhqxxs,hoejcheugqhejshoejhyjoojs,
ugqhupp sjhoejhtunqhoeuohoejc’sjhixoehpxhnghyxrjhoeuohoejc’yyhqnjhxg
oejhpmxohuohoejhqxxskhOejhtunq,hpo mjanjq,hfussnjphnghoejnshtjppubjpk
Uyyhuohxgfjhuhbjgoyjtughummjusphznoehzenpljsphynljhpu pubjp,huphsjqhup
uhyxipojs,huggx gfjphoeuohoejsjhnphgxhxgjhynrngbhnghoejhayuohjvfjmohenp
znaj,hugqhpjgqphoejthixoehuix ohoejnshi pngjppk”

“Exzhqxhcx hlgxzhejheuqhzenpljsphynljhpu pubjp,huphcx hpuc?”

“Ue,hcx hpeuyyhejuskhN’rjh. pohijjghoxhtuljhmjufjhijozjjghoejtk”

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohoejg?”

“Oeuo’phoejhtxpohngojsjpongbhmusohxahoejhpoxsckhNohummjusphoeuohno’phu
eummchfx myj,huhbxrjsgtjgohfyjslhugqhenphyuqckhOejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjsl
yxqbjphuhfxtmyungo,hugqhNhijfutjhuhtjqnuoxs,hugqhp fehuhtjqnuoxs!kkkhN
upp sjhcx hOuyyjcsugqhfx yqg’ohexyqhuhfugqyjhoxhtjk”

“Zec,hzejsjhzuphoejhqnaanf yoc?”

“Ue,hcx hpeuyyhejuskkkkhZjhumxyxbndjhnghq jhaxst:hzjhusjhnghqjpmuns,hzj
jgosjuohaxsbnrjgjpphaxshoejh gaxso guojhtnp gqjspougqngbkhOej
bxrjsgtjgohfyjslhznoehoejhpu pubjphijbngphoxhtjyo,hi ohej,hoxx,hqjpnsjp
oxhjvmsjpphenphpjgontjgop,hugqhuphpxxghuphjrjshejhijbngphoxhjvmsjpp
oejt,hejhijbngphoxhbjohexohugqhpuchgupochoengbp,hugqhubunghN’thxiynbjq
oxhosxohx ohuyyhtchqnmyxtuonfhouyjgopkhNhuyyxzjqhoeuohoejnshfxgq fohzup
iuq,hi ohNh sbjqhenthoxhouljhngoxhfxgpnqjsuonxghoejnshejjqyjppgjpp,
oejnshcx oe;hoejg,hoxx,hoejhcx gbhtjgheuqhxgych. pohijjghy gfengb
oxbjoejskh‘Cx h gqjspougqkhOejchsjbsjohnohqjjmyc,hugqhijbhcx hox
xrjsyxxlhoejnshtnpijeurnxsk’hOejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjslhzuphpxaojgjqhxgfj
txsjkh‘Nhfxgpjgo,hfx go,hugqhuthsjuqchoxhxrjsyxxlhno;hi ohcx hmjsfjnrj
oeuohtchznaj—tchznaj’phuhsjpmjfouiyjhzxtug—euphijjghjvmxpjqhoxhoej
mjspjf onxg,hugqhngp yop,hugqhjaasxgojschxahcx gbh mpousop,
pfx gqsjypkkkk’hUgqhcx ht poh gqjspougq,hoejhcx gbh mpousophusjhmsjpjgo
uyyhoejhzenyj,hugqhNheurjhoxhljjmhoejhmjufjhijozjjghoejtkhUbunghNhfuyy
x ohuyyhtchqnmyxtufc,hugqhubunghuphpxxghuphoejhoengbhzuphuix ohuohug
jgq,hx shasnjgqhoejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjslhbjophexohugqhsjq,hugqhenphpu pubjp
pougqhxghjgqhznoehzsuoe,hugqhxgfjhtxsjhNhyu gfehx ohngoxhqnmyxtuonf
znyjpk”

“Ue,hejht pohojyyhcx hoenphpoxsc!”hpunqhIjopc,hyu bengb,hoxhuhyuqchzex
futjhngoxhejshixvkh“Ejheuphijjghtulngbhtjhyu behpxk”

“Zjyy,h_ixggjhfeugfj_!”hpejhuqqjq,hbnrngbhRsxgplchxgjhangbjshxahoej
eugqhnghzenfehpejhejyqhejshaug,hugqhznoehuhpes bhxahejshpex yqjsphpej
oznofejqhqxzghoejhixqnfjhxahejshbxzghoeuoheuqhzxsljqh m,hpxhuphoxhij
q ychguljqhuphpejhtxrjqhaxszusqhoxzusqphoejhaxxoynbeophngoxhoejhynbeo
xahoejhbup,hugqhoejhpnbeohxahuyyhjcjpk

RsxgplchqsxrjhoxhoejhAsjgfehoejuojs,hzejsjhejhsjuyycheuqhoxhpjjhoej
fxyxgjyhxahenphsjbntjgo,hzexhgjrjshtnppjqhuhpngbyjhmjsaxstugfjhoejsjk
Ejhzugojqhoxhpjjhent,hoxhsjmxsohxghoejhsjp yohxahenphtjqnuonxg,hzenfe
euqhxff mnjqhugqhut pjqhenthaxshoejhyupohoesjjhqucpkhMjosnoplc,hzexthej
ynljq,hzuphntmynfuojqhnghoejhuaauns,hugqhoejhxoejshf ymsnohzuphu
fumnouyhajyyxzhugqhanspo-suojhfxtsuqj,hzexheuqhyuojych.xngjqhoej
sjbntjgo,hoejhcx gbhMsngfjhLjqsxrkhUgqhzeuohzuphtxpohntmxsougo,hoej
ngojsjpophxahoejhsjbntjgohzjsjhngrxyrjqhnghnohoxxk

Ixoehoejhcx gbhtjghzjsjhnghRsxgplc’phfxtmugckhOejhfxyxgjyhxahoej
sjbntjgohzuphzunojqh mxghichoejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjsl,hRjgqjg,hznoehu
fxtmyungohubungpohenphxaanfjsp,hzexheuqhngp yojqhenphznajkhEnphcx gb
znaj,hpxhRjgqjghoxyqhoejhpoxsc—ejheuqhijjghtussnjqheuyahuhcjus—zuphuo
fe sfehznoehejshtxoejs,hugqhp qqjgychxrjsfxtjhichngqnpmxpnonxg,husnpngb
asxthejshngojsjpongbhfxgqnonxg,hpejhfx yqhgxohsjtunghpougqngb,hpej
qsxrjhextjhnghoejhanspohpyjqbj,huhptuso-yxxlngbhxgj,hpejhfutjhufsxppk
Xghoejhpmxohoejhxaanfjsphpjohxaahnghm sp nohxahejs;hpejhzuphuyustjq,
ugqhajjyngbhponyyhtxsjh gzjyy,hsugh mhoejhpounsfupjhextjkhRjgqjg
entpjya,hxghsjo sgngbhasxthenphxaanfj,hejusqhuhsngbhuohoejnshijyyhugq
rxnfjp,hzjgohx o,hugqhpjjngbhoejhngoxvnfuojqhxaanfjsphznoehuhyjoojs,hej
euqho sgjqhoejthx okhEjhupljqhaxshjvjtmyuschm gnpetjgok

“Cjp,hno’phuyyhrjschzjyy,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyhoxhRsxgplc,hzexthejheuq
ngrnojqhoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhentkh“Mjosnoplc’phijfxtngbhntmxppniyjkhGxohu
zjjlhbxjphichznoex ohpxtjhpfugquykhOenphbxrjsgtjgohfyjslhzxg’ohyjohno
qsxm,hej’yyhbxhxghznoehoejhoengbk”

Rsxgplchpuzhuyyhoejhoeuglyjppgjpphxahoejhi pngjpp,hugqhoeuohoejsjhfx yq
ijhgxhw jponxghxahuhq jyhnghno,hoeuohjrjscoengbht pohijhqxgjhoxhpxaojg
oejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjsl,hugqhe pehoejhtuoojsh mkhOejhfxyxgjyheuqhfuyyjqhng
Rsxgplch. pohijfu pjhejhlgjzhenthoxhijhughexgxsuiyjhugqhngojyynbjgo
tug,hugq,htxsjhoeughuyy,huhtughzexhfusjqhaxshoejhexgxshxahoejhsjbntjgok
Oejchouyljqhnohxrjs,hugqhqjfnqjqhoeuohMjosnoplchugqhLjqsxrht pohbxhznoe
RsxgplchoxhRjgqjg’phoxhumxyxbndjkhOejhfxyxgjyhugqhRsxgplchzjsjhixoe
a yychuzusjhoeuohRsxgplc’phgutjhugqhsuglhzx yqhijhp sjhoxhfxgosni oj
bsjuoychoxhoejhpxaojgngbhxahoejhng. sjqhe piugq’phajjyngbpk

Ugqhoejpjhozxhngay jgfjphzjsjhgxohnghaufohznoex ohjaajfo;hoex behoej
sjp yohsjtungjq,huphRsxgplcheuqhqjpfsnijq,h gfjsoungk

XghsjufengbhoejhAsjgfehoejuojs,hRsxgplchsjonsjqhoxhoejhaxcjshznoehoej
fxyxgjy,hugqhsjmxsojqhoxhenthenphp ffjpp,hxshgxg-p ffjppkhOejhfxyxgjy,
oenglngbhnohuyyhxrjs,htuqjh mhenphtngqhgxohoxhm sp jhoejhtuoojs
a soejs,hi ohoejghaxshenphxzghpuonpaufonxghmsxfjjqjqhoxhfsxpp-jvutngj
Rsxgplchuix ohenphngojsrnjz;hugqhnohzuphuhyxgbhzenyjhijaxsjhejhfx yq
sjposunghenphyu beojs,huphRsxgplchqjpfsnijqhexzhoejhbxrjsgtjgohfyjsl,
uaojshp ipnqngbhaxshuhzenyj,hzx yqhp qqjgychayusjh mhubung,huphej
sjfuyyjqhoejhqjounyp,hugqhexzhRsxgplc,huohoejhyupoheuyahzxsqhxa
fxgfnynuonxg,hplnyya yychtugœ rjsjqhuhsjosjuo,hpexrngbhMjosnoplchx o
ijaxsjhentk

“No’phuhqnpbsufja yhpoxsc,hi ohlnyyngbkhLjqsxrhsjuyychfug’ohanbeohoej
bjgoyjtug!hZuphejhpxhuza yychexo?”hejhfxttjgojq,hyu bengbkh“I ohzeuohqx
cx hpuchoxhFyunsjhoxquc?hPej’phtusrjyx p,”hejhzjgohxg,hpmjulngbhxahu
gjzhAsjgfehufosjppkh“Exzjrjshxaojghcx hpjjhejs,hjrjschquchpej’p
qnaajsjgokhNo’phxgychoejhAsjgfehzexhfughqxhoeuok”


Feumojsh6

MsngfjpphIjopchqsxrjhextjhasxthoejhoejuojs,hznoex ohzunongbhaxshoejhjgq
xahoejhyupohufokhPejheuqhxgych. pohontjhoxhbxhngoxhejshqsjppngb-sxxt,
pmsnglyjhejshyxgb,hmuyjhaufjhznoehmxzqjs,hs ihno,hpjohejshqsjpphox
snbeop,hugqhxsqjshojuhnghoejhinbhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejghxgjhuaojshugxoejs
fussnubjphqsxrjh mhoxhejshe bjhex pjhnghIxypeunuhTxsplunukhEjshb jpop
pojmmjqhx ohuohoejhznqjhjgosugfj,hugqhoejhpox ohmxsojs,hzexh pjqhox
sjuqhoejhgjzpmumjsphnghoejhtxsgngbphijengqhoejhbyupphqxxs,hoxhoej
jqnanfuonxghxahoejhmuppjsp-ic,hgxnpjyjppychxmjgjqhoejhnttjgpjhqxxs,
yjoongbhoejhrnpnoxsphmupphichenthngoxhoejhex pjk

Uytxpohuohoejhputjhngpougohoejhexpojpp,hznoehasjpeychussugbjqhfxnaa sj
ugqhasjpejgjqhaufj,hzuyljqhnghuohxgjhqxxshugqhejshb jpophuohoejhxoejs
qxxshxahoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,huhyusbjhsxxthznoehquslhzuyyp,hqxzgchs bp,hugq
uhisnbeoychynbeojqhouiyj,hbyjutngbhznoehoejhynbeohxahfugqyjp,hzenoj
fyxoe,hpnyrjshputxrus,hugqhosugpmusjgohfenguhoju-oengbpk

OejhexpojpphpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyjhugqhoxxlhxaahejshbyxrjpkhFeunsphzjsj
pjohznoehoejhunqhxahaxxotjg,htxrngbhuytxpohntmjsfjmoniychuix ohoej
sxxt;hoejhmusochpjooyjqhnopjya,hqnrnqjqhngoxhozxhbsx mp:hxgjhsx gqhoej
putxrushgjushoejhexpojpp,hoejhxoejshuohoejhxmmxpnojhjgqhxahoej
qsuzngb-sxxt,hsx gqhoejheugqpxtjhznajhxahughutiuppuqxs,hnghiyufl
rjyrjo,hznoehpeusmychqjangjqhiyuflhjcjisxzpkhNghixoehbsx mp
fxgrjspuonxghzurjsjq,huphnohuyzucphqxjp,haxshoejhanspohajzhtng ojp,
isxljgh mhichtjjongbp,hbsjjongbp,hxaajsphxahoju,hugqhuphnohzjsj,
ajjyngbhuix ohaxshpxtjoengbhoxhsjpoh mxgk

“Pej’phjvfjmonxguyychbxxqhuphughufosjpp;hxgjhfughpjjhpej’phpo qnjq
Lu yiufe,”hpunqhuhqnmyxtuonfhuooufeéhnghoejhbsx mhsx gqhoej
utiuppuqxs’phznajkh“Qnqhcx hgxonfjhexzhpejhajyyhqxzg?kkk”

“Xe,hmyjupj,hqxg’ohyjoh phouylhuix ohGnyppxg!hGxhxgjhfughmxppniychpuc
ugcoengbhgjzhuix ohejs,”hpunqhuhauo,hsjq-aufjq,hayuvjg-ejuqjqhyuqc,
znoex ohjcjisxzphugqhfenbgxg,hzjusngbhughxyqhpnylhqsjppkhOenphzup
MsngfjpphTculucu,hgxojqhaxshejshpntmynfnochugqhoejhsx begjpphxahejs
tuggjsp,hugqhgnflgutjqh_jgaugohojssniyj_khMsngfjpphTculucu,hpnoongbhng
oejhtnqqyjhijozjjghoejhozxhbsx mp,hugqhynpojgngbhoxhixoe,hoxxlhmusohng
oejhfxgrjspuonxghanspohxahxgjhugqhoejghxahoejhxoejskh“Oesjjhmjxmyjheurj
 pjqhoeuohrjschmesupjhuix ohLu yiufehoxhtjhoxquchuysjuqc,h. pohup
oex behoejcheuqhtuqjhuhfxtmufohuix ohnokhUgqhNhfug’ohpjjhzechoejchynljq
oeuohsjtuslhpxk”

Oejhfxgrjspuonxghzuphf ohpexsohichoenphxipjsruonxg,hugqhuhgjzhp i.jfo
euqhoxhijhoex beohxahubungk

“Qxhojyyhtjhpxtjoengbhut pngbhi ohgxohpmnoja y,”hpunqhoejhutiuppuqxs’p
znaj,huhbsjuohmsxanfnjgohnghoejhusohxahoeuohjyjbugohfxgrjspuonxghfuyyjq
ichoejhJgbynpeh_ptuyyhouyl_khPejhuqqsjppjqhoejhuooufeé,hzexhzuphuohu
yxpphgxzhzeuohoxhijbngh mxgk

“Oejchpuchoeuohoeuo’phuhqnaanf yohoupl,hoeuohgxoengb’phut pngbhoeuo
npg’ohpmnoja y,”hejhijbughznoehuhptnyjkh“I ohN’yyhosckhBjohtjhu
p i.jfokhNohuyyhynjphnghoejhp i.jfokhNahuhp i.jfo’phbnrjghtj,hno’phjupc
oxhpmnghpxtjoengbhsx gqhnokhNhxaojghoenglhoeuohoejhfjyjisuojqhouyljsp
xahoejhyupohfjgo schzx yqheurjhax gqhnohqnaanf yohoxhouylhfyjrjsychgxzk
Jrjscoengbhfyjrjshnphpxhpouyjkkkk”

“Oeuoheuphijjghpunqhyxgbhubx,”hoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajhngojss mojqhent,
yu bengbk

Oejhfxgrjspuonxghijbughutnuiyc,hi oh. pohijfu pjhnohzuphoxxhutnuiyj,hno
futjhoxhuhpoxmhubungkhOejcheuqhoxheurjhsjfx spjhoxhoejhp sj,
gjrjs-aunyngbhoxmnf—bxppnmk

“Qxg’ohcx hoenglhoejsj’phpxtjoengbhYx nphW ngdjhuix ohO peljrnofe?”hej
punq,hbyugfngbhoxzusqphuheugqpxtj,hauns-eunsjqhcx gbhtug,hpougqngbhuo
oejhouiyjk

“Xe,hcjp!hEj’phnghoejhputjhpocyjhuphoejhqsuzngb-sxxthugqhoeuo’phzechno
nphej’phpxhxaojghejsjk”

Oenphfxgrjspuonxghzuphtungoungjq,hpngfjhnohsjpojqhxghuyy pnxgphoxhzeuo
fx yqhgxohijhouyljqhxahnghoeuohsxxt—oeuohnphoxhpuc,hxahoejhsjyuonxgphxa
O peljrnofehznoehoejnshexpojppk

Sx gqhoejhputxrushugqhoejhexpojpphoejhfxgrjspuonxgheuqhijjghtjugzenyj
rufnyyuongbhngh. pohoejhputjhzuchijozjjghoesjjhngjrnouiyjhoxmnfp:hoej
yuojpohmnjfjhxahm iynfhgjzp,hoejhoejuojs,hugqhpfugquykhNo,hoxx,hfutj
anguyychoxhsjpohxghoejhyupohoxmnf,hoeuohnp,hnyy-guo sjqhbxppnmk

“Eurjhcx hejusqhoejhTuyonpeofejruhzxtug—oejhtxoejs,hgxohoej
qu beojs—euphxsqjsjqhuhfxpo tjhngh_qnuiyjhsxpj_hfxyxs?”

“Gxgpjgpj!hGx,hoeuo’phoxxhyxrjyc!”

“Nhzxgqjshoeuohznoehejshpjgpj—axshpej’phgxohuhaxxy,hcx hlgxz—oeuohpej
qxjpg’ohpjjhexzha ggchpejhnpk”

Jrjscxgjheuqhpxtjoengbhoxhpuchnghfjgp sjhxshsnqnf yjhxahoejhy flyjpp
TuqutjhTuyonpeofejru,hugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghfsuflyjqhtjssnyc,hynljhu
i sgngbhaubbxo-pouflk

Oejhe piugqhxahMsngfjpphIjopc,huhbxxq-guo sjqhauohtug,hughusqjgo
fxyyjfoxshxahjgbsurngbp,hejusngbhoeuohenphznajheuqhrnpnoxsp,hfutjhngox
oejhqsuzngb-sxxthijaxsjhbxngbhoxhenphfy ikhPojmmngbhgxnpjyjppychxrjs
oejhoenflhs bp,hejhzjgoh mhoxhMsngfjpphTculucuk

“Exzhqnqhcx hynljhGnyppxg?”hejhupljqk

“Xe,hexzhfughcx hpojuyh mxghugcxgjhynljhoeuo!hExzhcx hpousoyjqhtj!”hpej
sjpmxgqjqkh“Myjupjhqxg’ohouylhoxhtjhuix ohoejhxmjsu;hcx hlgxzhgxoengb
uix oht pnfkhN’qhijoojshtjjohcx hxghcx shxzghbsx gq,hugqhouylhuix o
cx shtunxynfuhugqhjgbsurngbpkhFxtjhgxz,hzeuohosjup sjheurjhcx hijjg
i cngbhyuojychuohoejhxyqhf snxpnochpexmp?”

“Zx yqhcx hynljhtjhoxhpexzhcx ?hI ohcx hqxg’oh gqjspougqhp fehoengbpk”

“Xe,hqxhpexzhtj!hN’rjhijjghyjusgngbhuix ohoejthuohoexpj—zeuo’phoejns
gutjp?kkkhoejhiugljsphkkkhoejc’rjhpxtjhpmyjgqnqhjgbsurngbpkhOejchpexzjq
oejthoxh pk”

“Zec,heurjhcx hijjghuohoejhPfeüodi sbp?”hupljqhoejhexpojpphasxthoej
putxrusk

“Cjp,h_tuhfeèsj_khOejchupljqhtche piugqhugqhtjhoxhqnggjs,hugqhoxyqh p
oejhpu fjhuohoeuohqnggjshfxpohuhe gqsjqhmx gqp,”hMsngfjpphTculucuhpunq,
pmjulngbhyx qyc,hugqhfxgpfnx phjrjscxgjhzuphynpojgngb;h“ugqhrjschgupoc
pu fjhnohzup,hpxtjhbsjjghtjppkhZjheuqhoxhuplhoejt,hugqhNhtuqjhoejt
pu fjhaxshjnbeojjghmjgfj,hugqhjrjscixqchzuphrjscht fehmyjupjqhznoehnok
Nhfug’ohs ghoxhe gqsjq-mx gqhpu fjpk”

“Pej’ph gnw j!”hpunqhoejhyuqchxahoejhex pjk

“Tusrjyx p!”hpunqhpxtjxgjk

Oejhpjgpuonxghmsxq fjqhichMsngfjpphTculucu’phpmjjfejphzuphuyzucp
 gnw j,hugqhoejhpjfsjohxahoejhpjgpuonxghpejhmsxq fjqhyuchnghoejhaufo
oeuohoex behpejhpmxljhgxohuyzucphummsxmsnuojyc,huphgxz,hpejhpunqhpntmyj
oengbphznoehpxtjhpjgpjhnghoejtkhNghoejhpxfnjochnghzenfehpejhynrjqhp fe
myunghpouojtjgophmsxq fjqhoejhjaajfohxahoejhznoonjpohjmnbsutkhMsngfjpp
Tculucuhfx yqhgjrjshpjjhzechnoheuqhoeuohjaajfo,hi ohpejhlgjzhnoheuq,
ugqhoxxlhuqrugoubjhxahnok

UphjrjscxgjheuqhijjghynpojgngbhzenyjhMsngfjpphTculucuhpmxlj,hugqhpxhoej
fxgrjspuonxghusx gqhoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajheuqhqsxmmjq,hMsngfjpphIjopc
osnjqhoxhisngbhoejhzexyjhmusochoxbjoejs,hugqho sgjqhoxhoejhutiuppuqxs’p
znajk

“Znyyhcx hsjuyychgxoheurjhoju?hCx hpex yqhfxtjhxrjshejsjhich pk”

“Gx,hzj’sjhrjscheummchejsj,”hoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajhsjpmxgqjqhznoehu
ptnyj,hugqhpejhzjgohxghznoehoejhfxgrjspuonxghoeuoheuqhijjghijb gk

NohzuphuhrjschubsjjuiyjhfxgrjspuonxgkhOejchzjsjhfsnonfndngbhoej
Lusjgngp,he piugqhugqhznajk

“Ugguhnphw nojhfeugbjqhpngfjhejshpouchnghTxpfxzkhOejsj’phpxtjoengb
posugbjhuix ohejs,”hpunqhejshasnjgqk

“Oejhbsjuohfeugbjhnphoeuohpejhisx beohiuflhznoehejshoejhpeuqxzhxa
UyjvjchRsxgplc,”hpunqhoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajk

“Zjyy,hzeuohxahno?hOejsj’phuhauiyjhxahBsntt’phuix ohuhtughznoex ohu
peuqxz,huhtughzex’phyxpohenphpeuqxzkhUgqhoeuo’phenphm gnpetjgohaxs
pxtjoengbkhNhgjrjshfx yqh gqjspougqhexzhnohzuphuhm gnpetjgokhI ohu
zxtught pohqnpynljhijngbhznoex ohuhpeuqxzk”

“Cjp,hi ohzxtjghznoehuhpeuqxzh p uyychfxtjhoxhuhiuqhjgq,”hpunqhUggu’p
asnjgqk

“Iuqhy flhoxhcx shoxgb j!”hpunqhMsngfjpphTculucuhp qqjgyckh“Tuqutj
Lusjgngu’phuhpmyjgqnqhzxtugkhNhqxg’ohynljhejshe piugq,hi ohNhynljhejs
rjscht fek”

“Zechqxg’ohcx hynljhejshe piugq?hEj’php fehuhsjtusluiyjhtug,”hpunqhoej
utiuppuqxs’phznajkh“Tche piugqhpucphoejsjhusjhajzhpouojptjghynljhenthng
J sxmjk”

“Ugqhtche piugqhojyyphtjh. pohoejhputj,hi ohNhqxg’ohijynjrjhno,”hpunq
MsngfjpphTculucukh“Nahx she piugqphqnqg’ohouylhoxh p,hzjhpex yqhpjjhoej
aufophuphoejchusjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hoxhtchoenglngb,hnphpntmychu
axxykhNhpuchnohnghuhzenpmjshkkkhi ohqxjpg’ohnohsjuyychtuljhjrjscoengb
fyjus?hIjaxsj,hzejghNhzuphoxyqhoxhfxgpnqjshenthfyjrjs,hNhljmohyxxlngb
axshenphuinynoc,hugqhoex beohtcpjyahuhaxxyhaxshgxohpjjngbhno;hi o
qnsjfoychNhpunq,h_ej’phuhaxxy,_hoex behxgychnghuhzenpmjs,hjrjscoengb’p
jvmyungjq,hnpg’ohno?”

“Exzhpmnoja yhcx husjhoxquc!”

“GxohuhinokhN’qhgxhxoejshzuchx ohxahnokhXgjhxahoejhozxheuqhoxhijhu
axxykhUgq,hzjyy,hcx hlgxzhxgjhfug’ohpuchoeuohxahxgjpjyak”

“‘Gxhxgjhnphpuonpanjqhznoehenphaxso gj,hugqhjrjscxgjhnphpuonpanjqhznoe
enphznok’”hOejhuooufeéhsjmjuojqhoejhAsjgfehpucngbk

“Oeuo’ph. pohno,h. pohno,”hMsngfjpphTculucuho sgjqhoxhentkh“I ohoej
mxngohnphoeuohNhzxg’ohuiugqxghUgguhoxhcx shtjsfnjpkhPej’phpxhgnfj,hpx
feustngbkhExzhfughpejhejymhnohnahoejc’sjhuyyhnghyxrjhznoehejs,hugq
axyyxzhejshuix ohynljhpeuqxzp?”

“Xe,hNheuqhgxhnqjuhxahiyutngbhejshaxshno,”hUggu’phasnjgqhpunqhng
pjya-qjajgpjk

“Nahgxhxgjhaxyyxzph phuix ohynljhuhpeuqxz,hoeuo’phgxhmsxxahoeuohzj’rj
ugchsnbeohoxhiyutjhejsk”

Ugqheurngbhq ychqnpmxpjqhxahUggu’phasnjgq,hoejhMsngfjpphTculucuhbxoh m,
ugqhoxbjoejshznoehoejhutiuppuqxs’phznaj,h.xngjqhoejhbsx mhuohoejhouiyj,
zejsjhoejhfxgrjspuonxghzuphqjuyngbhznoehoejhlngbhxahMs ppnuk

“Zeuohznfljqhbxppnmhzjsjhcx houylngbhxrjshoejsj?”hupljqhIjopck

“Uix ohoejhLusjgngpkhOejhmsngfjpphburjh phuhpljofehxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpunqhoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajhznoehuhptnyj,huphpejhpuo
qxzghuohoejhouiyjk

“Mnochzjhqnqg’ohejushno!”hpunqhMsngfjpphIjopc,hbyugfngbhoxzusqphoej
qxxskh“Ue,hejsjhcx husjhuohyupo!”hpejhpunq,ho sgngbhznoehuhptnyjhox
Rsxgplc,huphejhfutjhngk

Rsxgplchzuphgxohtjsjychufw ungojqhznoehuyyhoejhmjspxgphzexthejhzup
tjjongbhejsj;hejhpuzhoejthuyyhjrjschquc;hugqhpxhejhfutjhnghznoehoej
w njohtuggjshznoehzenfehxgjhjgojsphuhsxxtha yyhxahmjxmyjhasxthzexthxgj
euphxgych. pohmusojqk

“ZejsjhqxhNhfxtjhasxt?”hejhpunq,hnghugpzjshoxhuhw jponxghasxthoej
utiuppuqxs’phznajkh“Zjyy,hoejsj’phgxhejymhaxshno,hNht pohfxgajppkhAsxt
oejh_xmjsuhix aaj_khNhqxhijynjrjhN’rjhpjjghnohuhe gqsjqhontjp,hugq
uyzucphznoehasjpehjg.xctjgokhNo’phjvw npnoj!hNhlgxzhno’phqnpbsufja y,
i ohNhbxhoxhpyjjmhuohoejhxmjsu,hugqhNhpnohx ohoejh_xmjsuhix aaj_hoxhoej
yupohtng oj,hugqhjg.xchnokhOenphjrjgngbkkkk”

EjhtjgonxgjqhuhAsjgfehufosjpp,hugqhzuphbxngbhoxhojyyhpxtjoengbhuix o
ejs;hi ohoejhutiuppuqxs’phznaj,hznoehmyuca yhexssxs,hf ohenthpexsok

“Myjupjhqxg’ohojyyh phuix ohoeuohexssxsk”

“Uyyhsnbeo,hNhzxg’ohjpmjfnuyychuphjrjscxgjhlgxzphoexpjhexssxspk”

“Ugqhzjhpex yqhuyyhbxhoxhpjjhoejthnahnohzjsjhuffjmojqhuphoejhfxssjfo
oengb,hynljhoejhxmjsu,”hfentjqhnghMsngfjpphTculucuk


Feumojsh7

Pojmphzjsjhejusqhuohoejhqxxs,hugqhMsngfjpphIjopc,hlgxzngbhnohzuphTuqutj
Lusjgngu,hbyugfjqhuohRsxgplckhEjhzuphyxxlngbhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hugqhenp
aufjhzxsjhuhposugbjhgjzhjvmsjppnxgkh.xca yyc,hngojgoyc,hugqhuohoejhputj
ontjhontnqyc,hejhbudjqhuohoejhummsxufengbhanb sj,hugqhpyxzychejhsxpjhox
enphajjokhUgguhzuyljqhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtkhExyqngbhejspjyahjvosjtjyc
jsjfo,huphuyzucp,hyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsjhejs,hugqhtxrngbhznoehejs
pznao,hsjpxy oj,hugqhynbeohpojm,hoeuohqnpongb npejqhejshasxthuyyhxoejs
pxfnjochzxtjg,hpejhfsxppjqhoejhpexsohpmufjhoxhejshexpojpp,hpexxlheugqp
znoehejs,hptnyjq,hugqhznoehoejhputjhptnyjhyxxljqhusx gqhuohRsxgplck
Rsxgplchixzjqhyxzhugqhm pejqhuhfeunsh mhaxshejsk

Pejhuflgxzyjqbjqhoenphxgychichuhpynbeohgxq,hay pejqhuhynooyj,hugq
asxzgjqkhI ohnttjqnuojyc,hzenyjhsumnqychbsjjongbhejshufw ungougfjp,hugq
peulngbhoejheugqphmsxaajsjqhoxhejs,hpejhuqqsjppjqhMsngfjpphIjopc:

“NheurjhijjghuohFx gojpphYnqnu’p,hugqhtjugohoxheurjhfxtjhejsjhjusynjs,
i ohNhpoucjqhxgkhPnsh.xeghzuphoejsjkhEj’phrjschngojsjpongbk”

“Xe,hoeuo’phoenphtnppnxgusc?”

“Cjp;hejhoxyqh phuix ohoejhynajhnghNgqnu,htxpohngojsjpongbhoengbpk”

Oejhfxgrjspuonxg,hngojss mojqhichejshfxtngbhng,haynfljsjqh mhubunghynlj
oejhynbeohxahuhyutmhijngbhiyxzghx ok

“Pnsh.xeg!hCjp,hPnsh.xeg;hN’rjhpjjghentkhEjhpmjulphzjyykhOejhRyuppnjru
bnsy’phw nojhnghyxrjhznoehentk”

“Ugqhnphnohos jhoejhcx gbjshRyuppnjruhbnsy’phoxhtusschOxmxr?”

“Cjp,hoejchpuchno’phw nojhuhpjooyjqhoengbk”

“Nhzxgqjshuohoejhmusjgop!hOejchpuchno’phuhtussnubjhaxshyxrjk”

“Axshyxrj?hZeuohugojqny rnughgxonxgphcx heurj!hFughxgjhouylhxahyxrjhng
oejpjhqucp?”hpunqhoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajk

“Zeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hNo’phuhaxxynpehxyqhaupenxghoeuo’phljmoh mhponyy,”
punqhRsxgplck

“Pxht fehoejhzxspjhaxshoexpjhzexhljjmh mhoejhaupenxgkhOejhxgycheummc
tussnubjphNhlgxzhusjhtussnubjphxahms qjgfjk”

“Cjp,hi ohoejghexzhxaojghoejheummngjpphxahoejpjhms qjgohtussnubjphaynjp
uzuchynljhq poh. pohijfu pjhoeuohmuppnxgho sgph mhoeuohoejcheurj
sja pjqhoxhsjfxbgndj,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“I ohichtussnubjphxahms qjgfjhzjhtjughoexpjhnghzenfehixoehmusonjpheurj
pxzghoejnshznyqhxuophuysjuqckhOeuo’phynljhpfusyuongu—xgjheuphoxhbx
oesx behnohugqhbjohnohxrjsk”

“Oejghoejchx beohoxhangqhx ohexzhoxhruffnguojhaxshyxrj,hynljhptuyymxvk”

“Nhzuphnghyxrjhnghtchcx gbhqucphznoehuhqjufxg,”hpunqhoejhMsngfjpp
Tculucukh“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhoeuohnohqnqhtjhugchbxxqk”

“Gx;hNhntubngj,h.xlngbhumuso,hoeuohoxhlgxzhyxrj,hxgjht pohtuljhtnpouljp
ugqhoejghfxssjfohoejt,”hpunqhMsngfjpphIjopck

“Jrjghuaojshtussnubj?”hpunqhoejhutiuppuqxs’phznajhmyuca yyck

“‘No’phgjrjshoxxhyuojhoxhtjgqk’”hOejhuooufeéhsjmjuojqhoejhJgbynpe
msxrjsik

“. pohpx,”hIjopchubsjjq;h“xgjht pohtuljhtnpouljphugqhfxssjfohoejtkhZeuo
qxhcx hoenglhuix ohno?”hpejho sgjqhoxhUggu,hzex,hznoehuhaungoyc
mjsfjmoniyjhsjpxy ojhptnyjhxghejshynmp,hzuphynpojgngbhnghpnyjgfjhoxhoej
fxgrjspuonxgk

“Nhoengl,”hpunqhUggu,hmyucngbhznoehoejhbyxrjhpejheuqhouljghxaa,h“N
oenglhkkkhxahpxhtugchtjg,hpxhtugchtngqp,hfjsoungychpxhtugchejusop,hpx
tugchlngqphxahyxrjk”

RsxgplchzuphbudngbhuohUggu,hugqhznoehuhaungongbhejusohzunongbhaxshzeuo
pejhzx yqhpuckhEjhpnbejqhuphuaojshuhqugbjshjpfumjqhzejghpejh oojsjq
oejpjhzxsqpk

Ugguhp qqjgycho sgjqhoxhentk

“Xe,hNheurjheuqhuhyjoojshasxthTxpfxzkhOejchzsnojhtjhoeuohLnooc
Peofejsiuoplucu’phrjschnyyk”

“Sjuyyc?”hpunqhRsxgplc,hlgnoongbhenphisxzpk

Ugguhyxxljqhpojsgychuohentk

“Oeuohqxjpg’ohngojsjpohcx ?”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc,hnohqxjp,hrjscht fekhZeuohzuphnohjvufoychoejchoxyq
cx ,hnahNhtuchlgxz?”hejhw jponxgjqk

Ugguhbxoh mhugqhzjgohoxhIjopck

“Bnrjhtjhuhf mhxahoju,”hpejhpunq,hpougqngbhuohejshouiyjk

ZenyjhIjopchzuphmx sngbhx ohoejhoju,hRsxgplchzjgoh mhoxhUgguk

“Zeuohnphnohoejchzsnojhoxhcx ?”hejhsjmjuojqk

“Nhxaojghoenglhtjgheurjhgxh gqjspougqngbhxahzeuo’phgxohexgxsuiyjhoex be
oejc’sjhuyzucphouylngbhxahno,”hpunqhUggu,hznoex ohugpzjsngbhentkh“N’rj
zugojqhoxhojyyhcx hpxhuhyxgbhzenyj,”hpejhuqqjq,hugqhtxrngbhuhajzhpojmp
uzuc,hpejhpuohqxzghuohuhouiyjhnghuhfxsgjshfxrjsjqhznoehuyi tpk

“Nhqxg’ohw nojh gqjspougqhoejhtjugngbhxahcx shzxsqp,”hejhpunq,heugqngb
ejshoejhf mk

Pejhbyugfjqhoxzusqphoejhpxauhijpnqjhejs,hugqhejhngpougoychpuohqxzgk

“Cjp,hNheurjhijjghzugongbhoxhojyyhcx ,”hpejhpunq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohentk
“Cx hijeurjqhzsxgbyc,hrjschzsxgbyck”

“Qxhcx hp mmxpjhNhqxg’ohlgxzhoeuohN’rjhufojqhzsxgbyc?hI ohzexhzuphoej
fu pjhxahtchqxngbhpx?”

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuchoeuohoxhtjhaxs?”hpejhpunq,hbyugfngbhpjrjsjychuohentk

“Cx hlgxzhzeuohaxs,”hejhugpzjsjqhixyqychugqh.xca yyc,htjjongbhejs
byugfjhugqhgxohqsxmmngbhenphjcjpk

Gxohej,hi ohpej,hzuphfxga pjqk

“Oeuohxgychpexzphcx heurjhgxhejuso,”hpejhpunqkhI ohejshjcjphpunqhoeuo
pejhlgjzhejheuqhuhejuso,hugqhoeuohzuphzechpejhzuphuasunqhxahentk

“Zeuohcx hpmxljhxah. pohgxzhzuphuhtnpoulj,hugqhgxohyxrjk”

“SjtjtijshoeuohNheurjhaxsinqqjghcx hoxh oojshoeuohzxsq,hoeuoheuoja y
zxsq,”hpunqhUggu,hznoehuhpe qqjskhI ohuohxgfjhpejhajyohoeuohichoeuo
rjschzxsqh“axsinqqjg”hpejheuqhpexzghoeuohpejhuflgxzyjqbjqhfjsoung
snbeophxrjshent,hugqhichoeuohrjschaufohzuphjgfx subngbhenthoxhpmjulhxa
yxrjkh“Nheurjhyxgbhtjugohoxhojyyhcx hoenp,”hpejhzjgohxg,hyxxlngb
sjpxy ojychngoxhenphjcjp,hugqhexohuyyhxrjshasxthoejhi sgngbhay pehxg
ejshfejjlpkh“N’rjhfxtjhxghm smxpjhoenphjrjgngb,hlgxzngbhNhpex yqhtjjo
cx khNheurjhfxtjhoxhojyyhcx hoeuohoenpht pohjgqkhNheurjhgjrjshiy pejq
ijaxsjhugcxgj,hugqhcx haxsfjhtjhoxhajjyhoxhiyutjhaxshpxtjoengbk”

Ejhyxxljqhuohejshugqhzuphpos flhichuhgjzhpmnsno uyhiju ochnghejshaufjk

“Zeuohqxhcx hznpehxahtj?”hejhpunqhpntmychugqhpjsnx pyck

“Nhzugohcx hoxhbxhoxhTxpfxzhugqhuplhaxshLnooc’phaxsbnrjgjpp,”hpejhpunqk

“Cx hqxg’ohznpehoeuo?”hejhpunqk

Ejhpuzhpejhzuphpucngbhzeuohpejhaxsfjqhejspjyahoxhpuc,hgxohzeuohpej
zugojqhoxhpuck

“Nahcx hyxrjhtj,huphcx hpuc,”hpejhzenpmjsjq,h“qxhpxhoeuohNhtuchijhuo
mjufjk”

Enphaufjhbsjzhsuqnugok

“Qxg’ohcx hlgxzhoeuohcx ’sjhuyyhtchynajhoxhtj?hI ohNhlgxzhgxhmjufj,hugq
Nhfug’ohbnrjhnohoxhcx ;huyyhtcpjya—ugqhyxrjhkkkhcjpkhNhfug’ohoenglhxa
cx hugqhtcpjyahumusokhCx hugqhNhusjhxgjhoxhtjkhUgqhNhpjjhgxhfeugfj
ijaxsjh phxahmjufjhaxshtjhxshaxshcx khNhpjjhuhfeugfjhxahqjpmuns,hxa
zsjofejqgjpphkkkhxshNhpjjhuhfeugfjhxahiynpp,hzeuohiynpp!kkkhFughnohij
oejsj’phgxhfeugfjhxahno?”hejht st sjqhznoehenphynmp;hi ohpejhejusqk

Pejhposungjqhjrjschjaaxsohxahejshtngqhoxhpuchzeuohx beohoxhijhpunqkhI o
ngpojuqhxahoeuohpejhyjohejshjcjphsjpohxghent,ha yyhxahyxrj,hugqhtuqjhgx
ugpzjsk

“No’phfxtj!”hejhoex beohnghjfpoupckh“ZejghNhzuphijbnggngbhoxhqjpmuns,
ugqhnohpjjtjqhoejsjhzx yqhijhgxhjgq—no’phfxtj!hPejhyxrjphtj!hPejhxzgp
no!”

“Oejghqxhoenphaxshtj:hgjrjshpuchp fehoengbphoxhtj,hugqhyjoh phij
asnjgqp,”hpejhpunqhnghzxsqp;hi ohejshjcjphpmxljhw nojhqnaajsjgoyck

“Asnjgqphzjhpeuyyhgjrjshij,hcx hlgxzhoeuohcx spjyakhZejoejshzjhpeuyyhij
oejheummnjpohxshoejhzsjofejqjpohxahmjxmyj—oeuo’phnghcx sheugqpk”

Pejhzx yqheurjhpunqhpxtjoengb,hi ohejhngojss mojqhejsk

“Nhuplhxgjhoengbhxgyc:hNhuplhaxshoejhsnbeohoxhexmj,hoxhp aajshuphNhqxk
I ohnahjrjghoeuohfuggxohij,hfxttugqhtjhoxhqnpummjus,hugqhNhqnpummjusk
Cx hpeuyyhgxohpjjhtjhnahtchmsjpjgfjhnphqnpoupoja yhoxhcx k”

“Nhqxg’ohzugohoxhqsnrjhcx huzuck”

“Xgychqxg’ohfeugbjhugcoengb,hyjurjhjrjscoengbhuphnohnp,”hejhpunqhnghu
peulchrxnfjkh“Ejsj’phcx she piugqk”

UohoeuohngpougohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhnghaufohzuylhngoxhoejhsxxt
znoehenphfuyt,huzlzusqhbunok

ByugfngbhuohenphznajhugqhRsxgplc,hejhzjgoh mhoxhoejhyuqchxahoejhex pj,
ugqhpnoongbhqxzghaxshuhf mhxahoju,hijbughouylngbhnghenphqjynijsuoj,
uyzucphu qniyjhrxnfj,hnghenpheuino uyhoxgjhxahiugojs,hsnqnf yngb
pxtjxgjk

“Cx shSutix nyyjohnphngha yyhfxgfyurj,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhsx gqhuohuyy
oejhmusoc;h“oejhbsufjphugqhoejht pjpk”

I ohMsngfjpphIjopchfx yqhgxohjgq sjhoeuohoxgjhxahenp—“pgjjsngb,”huphpej
fuyyjqhno,h pngbhoejhJgbynpehzxsq,hugqhynljhuhplnyya yhexpojpphpejhuo
xgfjhisx beohenthngoxhuhpjsnx phfxgrjspuonxghxghoejhp i.jfohxa
 gnrjspuyhfxgpfsnmonxgkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphnttjqnuojyc
ngojsjpojqhnghoejhp i.jfo,hugqhijbughpjsnx pychqjajgqngbhoejhgjz
ntmjsnuyhqjfsjjhubungpohMsngfjpphIjopc,hzexheuqhuooufljqhnok

RsxgplchugqhUgguhponyyhpuohuohoejhynooyjhouiyjk

“Oenphnphbjoongbhngqjfxsx p,”hzenpmjsjqhxgjhyuqc,hznoehughjvmsjppnrj
byugfjhuohTuqutjhLusjgngu,hRsxgplc,hugqhejshe piugqk

“ZeuohqnqhNhojyyhcx ?”hpunqhUggu’phasnjgqk

I ohgxohxgychoexpjhyuqnjp,huytxpohjrjscxgjhnghoejhsxxt,hjrjghoej
MsngfjpphTculucuhugqhIjopchejspjya,hyxxljqhpjrjsuyhontjphnghoej
qnsjfonxghxahoejhozxhzexheuqhznoeqsuzghasxthoejhbjgjsuyhfnsfyj,hup
oex behoeuohzjsjhuhqnpo singbhaufokhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphoejhxgyc
mjspxghzexhqnqhgxohxgfjhyxxlhnghoeuohqnsjfonxg,hugqhzuphgxohqnrjsojq
asxthoejhngojsjpongbhqnpf ppnxghejheuqhjgojsjqh mxgk

Gxonfngbhoejhqnpubsjjuiyjhntmsjppnxghoeuohzuphijngbhtuqjhxghjrjscxgj,
MsngfjpphIjopchpynmmjqhpxtjxgjhjypjhngoxhejshmyufjhoxhynpojghoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhzjgoh mhoxhUgguk

“N’thuyzucphutudjqhuohoejhfyjusgjpphugqhmsjfnpnxghxahcx she piugq’p
yugb ubj,”hpejhpunqkh“Oejhtxpohosugpfjgqjgouyhnqjuphpjjthoxhijhznoeng
tchbsupmhzejghej’phpmjulngbk”

“Xe,hcjp!”hpunqhUggu,hsuqnugohznoehuhptnyjhxaheummngjpp,hugqhgxo
 gqjspougqngbhuhzxsqhxahzeuohIjopcheuqhpunqkhPejhfsxppjqhxrjshoxhoej
inbhouiyjhugqhoxxlhmusohnghoejhbjgjsuyhfxgrjspuonxgk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huaojshpoucngbheuyahughex s,hzjgoh mhoxhenphznaj
ugqhp bbjpojqhoeuohoejchpex yqhbxhextjhoxbjoejskhI ohpejhugpzjsjq,hgxo
yxxlngbhuohent,hoeuohpejhzuphpoucngbhoxhp mmjskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
tuqjhenphixzphugqhznoeqsjzk

OejhauohxyqhOuous,hTuqutjhLusjgngu’phfxufetug,hzuphznoehqnaanf yoc
exyqngbhxgjhxahejshmunshxahbsucp,hfenyyjqhznoehoejhfxyqhugqhsjusngbhuo
oejhjgosugfjkhUhaxxotughpoxxqhxmjgngbhoejhfussnubjhqxxskhOej
euyy-mxsojshpoxxqhexyqngbhxmjghoejhbsjuohqxxshxahoejhex pjkhUggu
Usluqcjrgu,hznoehejshw nflhynooyjheugq,hzuph gaupojgngbhoejhyufjhxahejs
pyjjrj,hfu beohnghoejhexxlhxahejsha shfyxul,hugqhznoehijgohejuq
ynpojgngbhoxhoejhzxsqphRsxgplcht st sjqhuphejhjpfxsojqhejshqxzgk

“Cx ’rjhpunqhgxoengb,hxahfx spj,hugqhNhuplhgxoengb,”hejhzuphpucngb;
“i ohcx hlgxzhoeuohasnjgqpenm’phgxohzeuohNhzugo:hoeuohoejsj’phxgychxgj
eummngjpphnghynajhaxshtj,hoeuohzxsqhoeuohcx hqnpynljhpxhkkkhcjp,
yxrj!kkk”

“Yxrj,”hpejhsjmjuojqhpyxzyc,hnghughnggjshrxnfj,hugqhp qqjgyc,huohoej
rjschngpougohpejh gexxljqhoejhyufj,hpejhuqqjq,h“ZechNhqxg’ohynljhoej
zxsqhnphoeuohnohtjugphoxxht fehoxhtj,haushtxsjhoeughcx hfug
 gqjspougq,”hugqhpejhbyugfjqhngoxhenphaufjkh“_U hsjrxns!_”

Pejhburjhenthejsheugq,hugqhznoehejshsumnq,hpmsngbchpojmhpejhmuppjqhic
oejhmxsojshugqhrugnpejqhngoxhoejhfussnubjk

Ejshbyugfj,hoejhox fehxahejsheugq,hpjohenthuayutjkhEjhlnppjqhoejhmuyt
xahenpheugqhzejsjhpejheuqhox fejqhno,hugqhzjgohextj,heummchnghoejhpjgpj
oeuohejheuqhbxohgjusjshoxhoejhuooungtjgohxahenphuntphoeuohjrjgngbhoeug
q sngbhoejhyupohozxhtxgoepk


Feumojsh8

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhpjjghgxoengbhposnlngbhxshntmsxmjshnghoejhaufo
oeuohenphznajhzuphpnoongbhznoehRsxgplchuohuhouiyjhumuso,hnghjubjs
fxgrjspuonxghznoehenthuix ohpxtjoengbkhI ohejhgxonfjqhoeuohoxhoejhsjpo
xahoejhmusochoenphummjusjqhpxtjoengbhposnlngbhugqhntmsxmjs,hugqhaxs
oeuohsjupxghnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoxxhoxhijhntmsxmjskhEjhtuqjh mhenphtngq
oeuohejht pohpmjulhxahnohoxhenphznajk

XghsjufengbhextjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohoxhenphpo qc,huphejh p uyyc
qnq,hpjuojqhentpjyahnghenphyxzhfeuns,hxmjgjqhuhixxlhxghoejhMumufchuo
oejhmyufjhzejsjhejheuqhyunqhoejhmumjs-lgnajhnghno,hugqhsjuqhonyyhxgj
x’fyxfl,h. pohuphejh p uyychqnqkhI ohasxthontjhoxhontjhejhs iijqhenp
enbehaxsjejuqhugqhpexxlhenphejuq,huphoex behoxhqsnrjhuzuchpxtjoengbkhUo
enph p uyhontjhejhbxoh mhugqhtuqjhenphoxnyjohaxshoejhgnbeokhUggu
UsluqcjrguheuqhgxohcjohfxtjhngkhZnoehuhixxlh gqjshenphusthejhzjgo
 mpounspkhI ohoenphjrjgngb,hngpojuqhxahenph p uyhoex beophugq
tjqnouonxgph mxghxaanfnuyhqjounyp,henphoex beophzjsjhuipxsijqhichenp
znajhugqhpxtjoengbhqnpubsjjuiyjhfxggjfojqhznoehejskhFxgosuschoxhenp
 p uyheuino,hejhqnqhgxohbjohngoxhijq,hi ohajyyhoxhzuylngbh mhugqhqxzg
oejhsxxtphznoehenpheugqphfyupmjqhijengqhenphiuflkhEjhfx yqhgxohbxhox
ijq,hajjyngbhoeuohnohzuphuipxy ojychgjjqa yhaxshenthanspohoxhoengl
oexsx beychxrjshoejhmxpnonxghoeuoheuqh. pohusnpjgk

ZejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoeuohejht pohouylhox
enphznajhuix ohno,hnoheuqhpjjtjqhuhrjschjupchugqhpntmyjhtuoojskhI o
gxz,hzejghejhijbughoxhoenglhxrjshoejhw jponxghoeuoheuqh. pohmsjpjgojq
nopjya,hnohpjjtjqhoxhenthrjschfxtmynfuojqhugqhqnaanf yok

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphgxoh.juyx pkh.juyx pchuffxsqngbhoxhenp
gxonxgphzuphughngp yohoxhxgj’phznaj,hugqhxgjhx beohoxheurjhfxganqjgfj
nghxgj’phznajkhZechxgjhx beohoxheurjhfxganqjgfj—oeuohnphoxhpuc,
fxtmyjojhfxgrnfonxghoeuohenphcx gbhznajhzx yqhuyzucphyxrjhent—ejhqnq
gxohuplhentpjyakhI ohejheuqhgxhjvmjsnjgfjhxahyuflhxahfxganqjgfj,
ijfu pjhejheuqhfxganqjgfjhnghejs,hugqhoxyqhentpjyahoeuohejhx beohox
eurjhnokhGxz,hoex behenphfxgrnfonxghoeuoh.juyx pchzuphuhpeutja y
ajjyngbhugqhoeuohxgjhx beohoxhajjyhfxganqjgfj,heuqhgxohisxljghqxzg,hej
ajyohoeuohejhzuphpougqngbhaufjhoxhaufjhznoehpxtjoengbhnyyxbnfuyhugq
nssuonxguy,hugqhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohzuphoxhijhqxgjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
zuphpougqngbhaufjhoxhaufjhznoehynaj,hznoehoejhmxppninynochxahenphznaj’p
yxrngbhpxtjxgjhxoejshoeughentpjya,hugqhoenphpjjtjqhoxhenthrjsc
nssuonxguyhugqhngfxtmsjejgpniyjhijfu pjhnohzuphynajhnopjyakhUyyhenp
ynajhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhynrjqhugqhzxsljqhnghxaanfnuyhpmejsjp,
eurngbhoxhqxhznoehoejhsjayjfonxghxahynajkhUgqhjrjschontjhejheuq
po tiyjqhubungpohynajhnopjyahejheuqhpes glhuzuchasxthnokhGxzhej
jvmjsnjgfjqhuhajjyngbhulnghoxhoeuohxahuhtughzex,hzenyjhfuytychfsxppngb
uhmsjfnmnfjhichuhisnqbj,hpex yqhp qqjgychqnpfxrjshoeuohoejhisnqbjhnp
isxljg,hugqhoeuohoejsjhnphuhfeupthijyxzkhOeuohfeupthzuphynajhnopjya,
oejhisnqbjhoeuohusonanfnuyhynajhnghzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuq
ynrjqkhAxshoejhanspohontjhoejhw jponxghmsjpjgojqhnopjyahoxhenthxahoej
mxppninynochxahenphznaj’phyxrngbhpxtjxgjhjypj,hugqhejhzuphexssnanjqhuo
nok

Ejhqnqhgxoh gqsjpp,hi ohzuyljqh mhugqhqxzghznoehenphsjb yushosjuqhxrjs
oejhsjpx gqngbhmusw johxahoejhqngngb-sxxt,hzejsjhxgjhyutmhzuphi sgngb,
xrjshoejhfusmjohxahoejhquslhqsuzngb-sxxt,hnghzenfehoejhynbeohzup
sjayjfojqhxghoejhinbhgjzhmxsosunohxahentpjyaheugbngbhxrjshoejhpxau,hugq
ufsxpphejshix qxns,hzejsjhozxhfugqyjphi sgjq,hynbeongbh mhoejhmxsosunop
xahejshmusjgophugqhzxtughasnjgqp,hugqhoejhmsjoochlgnfl-lguflphxahejs
zsnongb-ouiyj,hoeuohejhlgjzhpxhzjyykhEjhzuyljqhufsxpphejshix qxnshox
oejhijqsxxthqxxs,hugqho sgjqhiuflhubungkhUohjufeho sghnghenphzuyl,
jpmjfnuyychuohoejhmusw johxahoejhynbeojqhqngngb-sxxt,hejheuyojqhugq
punqhoxhentpjya,h“Cjp,hoenphNht pohqjfnqjhugqhm ohuhpoxmhox;hNht po
jvmsjpphtchrnjzhxahnohugqhtchqjfnpnxgk”hUgqhejho sgjqhiuflhubungkh“I o
jvmsjpphzeuo—zeuohqjfnpnxg?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,
ugqhejhax gqhgxhsjmyckh“I ohuaojshuyy,”hejhupljqhentpjyahijaxsjho sgngb
ngoxhoejhix qxns,h“zeuoheuphxff ssjq?hGxoengbkhPejhzuphouylngbhuhyxgb
zenyjhznoehentkhI ohzeuohxahoeuo?hP sjychzxtjghnghpxfnjochfughouylhox
zexthoejchmyjupjkhUgqhoejg,h.juyx pchtjugphyxzjsngbhixoehtcpjyahugq
ejs,”hejhoxyqhentpjyahuphejhzjgohngoxhejshix qxns;hi ohoenphqnfo t,
zenfeheuqhuyzucpheuqhp fehzjnbeohznoehenthijaxsj,heuqhgxzhgxhzjnbeohugq
gxhtjugngbhuohuyykhUgqhasxthoejhijqsxxthqxxshejho sgjqhiuflhubung;hi o
uphejhjgojsjqhoejhquslhqsuzngb-sxxthpxtjhnggjshrxnfjhoxyqhenthoeuohno
zuphgxohpx,hugqhoeuohnahxoejsphgxonfjqhnohoeuohpexzjqhoeuohoejsjhzup
pxtjoengbkhUgqhejhpunqhoxhentpjyahubunghnghoejhqngngb-sxxt,h“Cjp,hN
t pohqjfnqjhugqhm ohuhpoxmhoxhno,hugqhjvmsjpphtchrnjzhxahnokkkk”hUgq
ubunghuohoejho sghnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthejhupljqhentpjya,h“Qjfnqjhexz?”
Ugqhubunghejhupljqhentpjya,h“Zeuoheuqhxff ssjq?”hugqhugpzjsjq,
“Gxoengb,”hugqhsjfxyyjfojqhoeuoh.juyx pchzuphuhajjyngbhngp yongbhoxhenp
znaj;hi ohubunghnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthejhzuphfxgrngfjqhoeuohpxtjoengbheuq
eummjgjqkhEnphoex beop,hynljhenphixqc,hzjgohsx gqhuhfxtmyjojhfnsfyj,
znoex ohfxtngbh mxghugcoengbhgjzkhEjhgxonfjqhoenp,hs iijqhenphaxsjejuq,
ugqhpuohqxzghnghejshix qxnsk

Oejsj,hyxxlngbhuohejshouiyj,hznoehoejhtuyufenojhiyxoongbhfupjhycngbhuo
oejhoxmhugqhugh gangnpejqhyjoojs,henphoex beophp qqjgychfeugbjqkhEj
ijbughoxhoenglhxahejs,hxahzeuohpejhzuphoenglngbhugqhajjyngbkhAxshoej
anspohontjhejhmnfo sjqhrnrnqychoxhentpjyahejshmjspxguyhynaj,hejshnqjup,
ejshqjpnsjp,hugqhoejhnqjuhoeuohpejhfx yqhugqhpex yqheurjhuhpjmusuoj
ynajhxahejshxzghpjjtjqhoxhenthpxhuyustngbhoeuohejhtuqjheupojhoxhqnpmjy
nokhNohzuphoejhfeupthzenfehejhzuphuasunqhoxhmjjmhngoxkhOxhm ohentpjya
nghoex beohugqhajjyngbhnghugxoejshmjspxg’phmyufjhzuphuhpmnsno uy
jvjsfnpjhgxohguo suyhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhEjhyxxljqhxghoenp
pmnsno uyhjvjsfnpjhuphuheusta yhugqhqugbjsx phui pjhxahoejhaugfck

“Ugqhoejhzxspohxahnohuyy,”hoex beohej,h“nphoeuoh. pohgxz,huohoejhrjsc
txtjgohzejghtchbsjuohzxslhnphummsxufengbhfxtmyjonxg”h(ejhzuphoenglngb
xahoejhmsx.jfohejhzuphisngbngbhaxszusqhuohoejhontj),h“zejghNhpougqhng
gjjqhxahuyyhtchtjgouyhmjufjhugqhuyyhtchjgjsbnjp,h. pohgxzhoenphpo mnq
zxsschpex yqhauyyhax yhxahtjkhI ohzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hN’thgxohxgjhxa
oexpjhtjghzexhp itnohoxh gjupngjpphugqhzxsschznoex oheurngbhoejhaxsfj
xahfeusufojshoxhaufjhoejtk

“Nht pohoenglhnohxrjs,hfxtjhoxhuhqjfnpnxg,hugqhm ohnohx ohxahtchtngq,”
ejhpunqhuyx qk

“Oejhw jponxghxahejshajjyngbp,hxahzeuoheuphmuppjqhugqhtuchijhmuppngbhng
ejshpx y,hoeuo’phgxohtchuaauns;hoeuo’phoejhuaaunshxahejshfxgpfnjgfj,
ugqhauyyph gqjshoejhejuqhxahsjynbnxg,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hajjyngb
fxgpxyuonxghnghoejhpjgpjhoeuohejheuqhax gqhoxhzenfehqnrnpnxghxa
sjb yuongbhmsngfnmyjphoenphgjzhfnsf tpougfjhfx yqhijhmsxmjsychsjajssjqk

“Ugqhpx,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya,h“w jponxgphuphoxhejs
ajjyngbp,hugqhpxhxg,husjhw jponxgphaxshejshfxgpfnjgfj,hznoehzenfehNhfug
eurjhgxoengbhoxhqxkhTchq ochnphfyjusychqjangjqkhUphoejhejuqhxahoej
autnyc,hNhuthuhmjspxghix gqhnghq ochoxhb nqjhejs,hugqhfxgpjw jgoyc,hng
musohoejhmjspxghsjpmxgpniyj;hNhuthix gqhoxhmxngohx ohoejhqugbjshN
mjsfjnrj,hoxhzusghejs,hjrjghoxh pjhtchu oexsnockhNhx beohoxhpmjul
myungychoxhejsk”hUgqhjrjscoengbhoeuohejhzx yqhpuchoxgnbeohoxhenphznaj
oxxlhfyjushpeumjhnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phejuqkhOenglngbhxrjshzeuohej
zx yqhpuc,hejhpxtjzeuohsjbsjoojqhoeuohejhpex yqheurjhoxh pjhenphontj
ugqhtjgouyhmxzjsphaxshqxtjponfhfxgp tmonxg,hznoehpxhynooyjhoxhpexzhaxs
no,hi o,hnghpmnojhxahoeuo,hoejhaxsthugqhfxgojgophxahoejhpmjjfehijaxsj
enthpeumjqhnopjyahuphfyjusychugqhqnpongfoychnghenphejuqhuphu
tngnpojsnuyhsjmxsok

“Nht pohpuchugqhjvmsjppha yychoejhaxyyxzngbhmxngop:hanspo,hjvmxpnonxg
xahoejhruy jhoxhijhuooufejqhoxhm iynfhxmngnxghugqhoxhqjfxs t;hpjfxgqyc,
jvmxpnonxghxahsjynbnx phpnbgnanfugfjhxahtussnubj;hoensqyc,hnahgjjqhij,
sjajsjgfjhoxhoejhfuyutnochmxppniychjgp ngbhoxhx shpxg;hax soeyc,
sjajsjgfjhoxhoejh geummngjpphynljychoxhsjp yohoxhejspjyak”hUgq,
ngojsyufngbhenphangbjsp,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehposjofejqhoejt,hugqhoej
.xngophxahoejhangbjsphfsufljqkhOenphosnfl,huhiuqheuino,hoejhfsuflngbhxa
enphangbjsp,huyzucphpxxoejqhent,hugqhburjhmsjfnpnxghoxhenphoex beop,hpx
gjjqa yhoxhenthuohoenph. gfo sjk

Oejsjhzuphoejhpx gqhxahuhfussnubjhqsnrngbh mhoxhoejhasxgohqxxskhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofeheuyojqhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxtk

Uhzxtug’phpojmhzuphejusqhtx gongbhoejhpounspkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
sjuqchaxshenphpmjjfe,hpoxxqhfxtmsjppngbhenphfsxppjqhangbjsp,hzunongbhox
pjjhnahoejhfsuflhzx yqhgxohfxtjhubungkhXgjh.xngohfsufljqk

Uysjuqc,hasxthoejhpx gqhxahynbeohpojmphxghoejhpounsp,hejhzuphuzusjhoeuo
pejhzuphfyxpj,hugqhoex behejhzuphpuonpanjqhznoehenphpmjjfe,hejhajyo
asnbeojgjqhxahoejhjvmyuguonxghfxgasxgongbhentkkkk


Feumojsh9

Ugguhfutjhnghznoeheugbngbhejuq,hmyucngbhznoehoejhouppjyphxahejshexxqk
Ejshaufjhzuphisnyynugohugqhbyxzngb;hi ohoenphbyxzhzuphgxohxgjhxa
isnbeogjpp;hnohp bbjpojqhoejhajusa yhbyxzhxahuhfxgayubsuonxghnghoej
tnqpohxahuhquslhgnbeokhXghpjjngbhejshe piugq,hUgguhsunpjqhejshejuqhugq
ptnyjq,huphoex behpejheuqh. pohzuljqh mk

“Cx ’sjhgxohnghijq?hZeuohuhzxgqjs!”hpejhpunq,hyjoongbhauyyhejshexxq,
ugqhznoex ohpoxmmngb,hpejhzjgohxghngoxhoejhqsjppngb-sxxtkh“No’phyuoj,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpejhpunq,hzejghpejheuqhbxgjhoesx behoej
qxxszuck

“Uggu,hno’phgjfjppuschaxshtjhoxheurjhuhouylhznoehcx k”

“Znoehtj?”hpejhpunq,hzxgqjsngbyckhPejhfutjhx ohasxthijengqhoejhqxxshxa
oejhqsjppngb-sxxt,hugqhyxxljqhuohentkh“Zec,hzeuohnphno?hZeuohuix o?”
pejhupljq,hpnoongbhqxzgkh“Zjyy,hyjo’phouyl,hnahno’phpxhgjfjppusckhI o
nohzx yqhijhijoojshoxhbjohoxhpyjjmk”

Ugguhpunqhzeuohfutjhoxhejshynmp,hugqhtusrjyjq,hejusngbhejspjya,huohejs
xzghfumufnochaxshycngbkhExzhpntmyjhugqhguo suyhzjsjhejshzxsqp,hugqhexz
ynljychoeuohpejhzuphpntmychpyjjmc!hPejhajyohejspjyahfyuqhnghug
ntmjgjosuiyjhustxshxahauypjexxqkhPejhajyohoeuohpxtjh gpjjghaxsfjheuq
fxtjhoxhejshunqhugqhzuphp mmxsongbhejsk

“Uggu,hNht pohzusghcx ,”hejhijbugk

“Zusghtj?”hpejhpunqkh“Xahzeuo?”

Pejhyxxljqhuohenthpxhpntmyc,hpxhisnbeoyc,hoeuohugcxgjhzexhqnqhgxohlgxz
ejshuphejshe piugqhlgjzhejshfx yqhgxoheurjhgxonfjqhugcoengbh gguo suy,
jnoejshnghoejhpx gqhxshoejhpjgpjhxahejshzxsqpkhI ohoxhent,hlgxzngbhejs,
lgxzngbhoeuohzejgjrjshejhzjgohoxhijqhanrjhtng ojphyuojshoeugh p uy,hpej
gxonfjqhno,hugqhupljqhenthoejhsjupxg;hoxhent,hlgxzngbhoeuohjrjsch.xc,
jrjschmyjup sjhugqhmunghoeuohpejhajyohpejhfxtt gnfuojqhoxhenthuohxgfj;
oxhent,hgxzhoxhpjjhoeuohpejhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhgxonfjhenphpouojhxahtngq,
oeuohpejhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhpuchuhzxsqhuix ohejspjya,htjugohuhbsjuohqjuyk
Ejhpuzhoeuohoejhngtxpohsjfjppjphxahejshpx y,hoeuoheuqhuyzucphenoejsox
yunghxmjghijaxsjhent,hzjsjhfyxpjqhubungpohentkhTxsjhoeughoeuo,hejhpuz
asxthejshoxgjhoeuohpejhzuphgxohjrjghmjso sijqhuohoeuo,hi ohuphnohzjsj
punqhposunbeohx ohoxhent:h“Cjp,hno’phpe oh m,hugqhpxhnoht pohij,hugq
znyyhijhngha o sjk”hGxzhejhjvmjsnjgfjqhuhajjyngbhp fehuphuhtughtnbeo
eurj,hsjo sgngbhextjhugqhangqngbhenphxzghex pjhyxfljqh mkh“I ohmjseump
oejhljchtuchcjohijhax gq,”hoex beohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Nhzugohoxhzusghcx ,”hejhpunqhnghuhyxzhrxnfj,h“oeuohoesx be
oex beoyjppgjpphugqhyuflhxahfu onxghcx htuchfu pjhcx spjyahoxhijhouyljq
uix ohnghpxfnjockhCx shoxxhugntuojqhfxgrjspuonxghoenphjrjgngbhznoe
Fx gohRsxgplc”h(ejhjg gfnuojqhoejhgutjhanstychugqhznoehqjynijsuoj
jtmeupnp)h“uoosufojqhuoojgonxgk”

Ejhouyljqhugqhyxxljqhuohejshyu bengbhjcjp,hzenfehasnbeojgjqhenthgxz
znoehoejnshntmjgjosuiyjhyxxl,hugq,huphejhouyljq,hejhajyohuyyhoej
 pjyjppgjpphugqhnqyjgjpphxahenphzxsqpk

“Cx ’sjhuyzucphynljhoeuo,”hpejhugpzjsjq,huphoex behfxtmyjojyc
tnpummsjejgqngbhent,hugqhxahuyyhejheuqhpunqhxgychoulngbhnghoejhyupo
mesupjkh“Xgjhontjhcx hqxg’ohynljhtchijngbhq yy,hugqhugxoejshontjhcx 
qxg’ohynljhtchijngbhynrjyckhNhzupg’ohq yykhQxjphoeuohxaajgqhcx ?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpenrjsjq,hugqhijgohenpheugqphoxhtuljhoejh.xngop
fsuflk

“Xe,hmyjupj,hqxg’ohqxhoeuo,hNhqxhpxhqnpynljhno,”hpejhpunqk

“Uggu,hnphoenphcx ?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hw njoychtulngbhug
jaaxsohxrjshentpjya,hugqhsjposungngbhoejhtxonxghxahenphangbjspk

“I ohzeuohnphnohuyyhuix o?”hpejhpunq,hznoehp fehbjg ngjhugqhqsxyy
zxgqjskh“Zeuohqxhcx hzugohxahtj?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmu pjq,hugqhs iijqhenphaxsjejuqhugqhenphjcjpkhEj
puzhoeuohngpojuqhxahqxngbhuphejheuqhngojgqjq—oeuohnphoxhpuc,hzusgngb
enphznajhubungpohuhtnpouljhnghoejhjcjphxahoejhzxsyq—ejheuq
 gfxgpfnx pychijfxtjhubnouojqhxrjshzeuohzuphoejhuaaunshxahejs
fxgpfnjgfj,hugqhzuphpos bbyngbhubungpohoejhiussnjshejhaugfnjqhijozjjg
oejtk

“OenphnphzeuohNhtjugohoxhpuchoxhcx ,”hejhzjgohxghfxyqychugqhfxtmxpjqyc,
“ugqhNhijbhcx hoxhynpojghoxhnokhNhfxgpnqjsh.juyx pc,huphcx hlgxz,hu
e tnynuongbhugqhqjbsuqngbhajjyngb,hugqhNhpeuyyhgjrjshuyyxzhtcpjyahoxhij
ngay jgfjqhichno;hi ohoejsjhusjhfjsounghs yjphxahqjfxs thzenfehfuggxo
ijhqnpsjbusqjqhznoehntm gnockhOenphjrjgngbhnohzuphgxohNhxipjsrjqhno,
i oh. qbngbhichoejhntmsjppnxghtuqjhxghoejhfxtmugc,hjrjscxgjhxipjsrjq
oeuohcx shfxgq fohugqhqjmxsotjgohzjsjhgxohuyoxbjoejshzeuohfx yqhij
qjpnsjqk”

“Nhmxpnonrjychqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpunqhUggu,hpes bbngbhejshpex yqjsp—“Ej
qxjpg’ohfusj,”hpejhoex beokh“I ohxoejshmjxmyjhgxonfjqhno,hugqhoeuo’p
zeuoh mpjophentk”—“Cx ’sjhgxohzjyy,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpejhuqqjq,
ugqhpejhbxoh m,hugqhzx yqheurjhbxgjhoxzusqphoejhqxxs;hi ohejhtxrjq
axszusqhuphoex behejhzx yqhpoxmhejsk

Enphaufjhzuph bychugqhaxsinqqngb,huphUgguheuqhgjrjshpjjghentkhPej
poxmmjq,hugqhijgqngbhejshejuqhiuflhugqhxghxgjhpnqj,hijbughznoehejs
sumnqheugqhoulngbhx ohejsheunsmngpk

“Zjyy,hN’thynpojgngbhoxhzeuo’phoxhfxtj,”hpejhpunq,hfuytychugq
nsxgnfuyyc;h“ugqhngqjjqhNhynpojghznoehngojsjpo,haxshNhpex yqhynljhox
 gqjspougqhzeuo’phoejhtuoojsk”

Pejhpmxlj,hugqhtusrjyjqhuohoejhfxganqjgo,hfuyt,hugqhguo suyhoxgjhng
zenfehpejhzuphpmjulngb,hugqhoejhfexnfjhxahoejhzxsqphpejh pjqk

“Oxhjgojshngoxhuyyhoejhqjounyphxahcx shajjyngbphNheurjhgxhsnbeo,hugq
ijpnqjp,hNhsjbusqhoeuohuph pjyjpphugqhjrjgheusta y,”hijbughUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofekh“Ajssjongbhnghxgj’phpx y,hxgjhxaojghajssjophx o
pxtjoengbhoeuohtnbeoheurjhyunghoejsjh ggxonfjqkhCx shajjyngbphusjhug
uaaunshxahcx shxzghfxgpfnjgfj;hi ohNhuthnghq ochix gqhoxhcx ,hox
tcpjya,hugqhoxhBxq,hoxhmxngohx ohoxhcx hcx shq onjpkhX shynajheuphijjg
.xngjq,hgxohichtug,hi ohichBxqkhOeuoh gnxghfughxgychijhpjrjsjqhichu
fsntj,hugqhuhfsntjhxahoeuohguo sjhisngbphnophxzghfeuponpjtjgok”

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhuhzxsqkhUgq,hxehqjus!hexzhpyjjmchNhut,h gy flnyc,”
pejhpunq,hsumnqychmuppngbhejsheugqhoesx behejsheuns,hajjyngbhaxshoej
sjtungngbheunsmngpk

“Uggu,haxshBxq’phpuljhqxg’ohpmjulhynljhoeuo!”hejhpunqhbjgoyckh“Mjseump
Nhuthtnpouljg,hi ohijynjrjhtj,hzeuohNhpuc,hNhpuchupht fehaxshtcpjyahup
axshcx khNhuthcx she piugq,hugqhNhyxrjhcx k”

Axshughngpougohejshaufjhajyy,hugqhoejhtxflngbhbyjuthnghejshjcjphqnjq
uzuc;hi ohoejhzxsqh_yxrj_hoesjzhejshngoxhsjrxyohubungkhPejhoex beo:
“Yxrj?hFughejhyxrj?hNahejheuqg’ohejusqhoejsjhzuphp fehuhoengbhuphyxrj,
ejhzx yqhgjrjsheurjh pjqhoejhzxsqkhEjhqxjpg’ohjrjghlgxzhzeuohyxrjhnpk”

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hsjuyychNhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpejhpunqkh“Qjangj
zeuohnohnphcx hangqkkkk”

“Musqxg,hyjohtjhpuchuyyhNheurjhoxhpuckhNhyxrjhcx khI ohNhuthgxo
pmjulngbhxahtcpjya;hoejhtxpohntmxsougohmjspxgphnghoenphtuoojshusjhx s
pxghugqhcx spjyakhNohtuchrjschzjyyhij,hNhsjmjuo,hoeuohtchzxsqphpjjthox
cx h oojsych ggjfjppuschugqhx ohxahmyufj;hnohtuchijhoeuohoejchusj
fuyyjqhaxsoehichtchtnpouljghntmsjppnxgkhNghoeuohfupj,hNhijbhcx hox
axsbnrjhtjkhI ohnahcx husjhfxgpfnx phcx spjyahxahjrjghoejhptuyyjpo
ax gquonxghaxshoejt,hoejghNhijbhcx hoxhoenglhuhynooyj,hugqhnahcx s
ejusohmsxtmophcx ,hoxhpmjulhx ohoxhtjkkkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuph gfxgpfnx pychpucngbhpxtjoengbh oojsych gynlj
zeuohejheuqhmsjmusjqk

“NheurjhgxoengbhoxhpuckhUgqhijpnqjp,”hpejhpunqhe ssnjqyc,hznoe
qnaanf yochsjmsjppngbhuhptnyj,h“no’phsjuyychontjhoxhijhnghijqk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpnbejq,hugq,hznoex ohpucngbhtxsj,hzjgohngoxhoej
ijqsxxtk

Zejghpejhfutjhngoxhoejhijqsxxt,hejhzuphuysjuqchnghijqkhEnphynmphzjsj
pojsgychfxtmsjppjq,hugqhenphjcjphyxxljqhuzuchasxthejskhUgguhbxohngox
ejshijq,hugqhyuchjvmjfongbhjrjschtng ojhoeuohejhzx yqhijbnghoxhpmjulhox
ejshubungkhPejhixoehajusjqhenphpmjulngbhugqhznpejqhaxshnokhI ohejhzup
pnyjgokhPejhzunojqhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhznoex ohtxrngb,hugqheuqhaxsbxoojg
uix ohentkhPejhoex beohxahoeuohxoejs;hpejhmnfo sjqhent,hugqhajyohexz
ejshejusohzuphayxxqjqhznoehjtxonxghugqhb nyochqjynbeohuohoejhoex beohxa
entkhP qqjgychpejhejusqhughjrjg,hosugw nyhpgxsjkhAxshoejhanspohngpougo
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpjjtjq,huphnohzjsj,hummuyyjqhuohenphxzghpgxsngb,
ugqhfjupjq;hi ohuaojshughngojsruyhxahozxhisjuoengbphoejhpgxsjhpx gqjq
ubung,hznoehuhgjzhosugw nyhsecoetk

“No’phyuoj,hno’phyuoj,”hpejhzenpmjsjqhznoehuhptnyjkhUhyxgbhzenyjhpej
yuc,hgxohtxrngb,hznoehxmjghjcjp,hzexpjhisnyynugfjhpejhuytxpohaugfnjq
pejhfx yqhejspjyahpjjhnghoejhquslgjppk


Feumojsh10

AsxthoeuohontjhuhgjzhynajhijbughaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhaxshenp
znajkhGxoengbhpmjfnuyheummjgjqkhUgguhzjgohx ohngoxhpxfnjoc,huphpejheuq
uyzucphqxgj,hzuphmusonf yusychxaojghuohMsngfjpphIjopc’p,hugqhtjo
RsxgplchjrjsczejsjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhoenp,hi ohfx yqhqx
gxoengbkhUyyhenphjaaxsophoxhqsuzhejshngoxhxmjghqnpf ppnxghpej
fxgasxgojqhznoehuhiussnjshzenfehejhfx yqhgxohmjgjosuoj,htuqjh mhxahu
pxsohxahut pjqhmjsmyjvnockhX ozusqychjrjscoengbhzuphoejhputj,hi ohoejns
nggjshsjyuonxgphzjsjhfxtmyjojychfeugbjqkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huhtug
xahbsjuohmxzjshnghoejhzxsyqhxahmxynonfp,hajyohentpjyahejymyjpphnghoenpk
Ynljhughxvhznoehejuqhijgo,hp itnppnrjychejhuzunojqhoejhiyxzhzenfehej
ajyohzuphynaojqhxrjshentkhJrjschontjhejhijbughoxhoenglhuix ohno,hej
ajyohoeuohejht pohoschxgfjhtxsj,hoeuohichlngqgjpp,hojgqjsgjpp,hugq
mjsp upnxghoejsjhzuphponyyhexmjhxahpurngbhejs,hxahisngbngbhejshiuflhox
ejspjya,hugqhjrjschquchejhtuqjhsjuqchoxhouylhoxhejskhI ohjrjschontjhej
ijbughouylngbhoxhejs,hejhajyohoeuohoejhpmnsnohxahjrnyhugqhqjfjno,hzenfe
euqhouljghmxppjppnxghxahejs,heuqhmxppjppnxghxahenthoxx,hugqhejhouyljq
oxhejshnghuhoxgjhw nojh gynljhoeuohnghzenfehejheuqhtjugohoxhouylk
Ngrxy gousnychejhouyljqhoxhejshnghenpheuino uyhoxgjhxah.jjsngbhuo
ugcxgjhzexhpex yqhpuchzeuohejhzuphpucngbkhUgqhnghoeuohoxgjhnohzup
ntmxppniyjhoxhpuchzeuohgjjqjqhoxhijhpunqhoxhejsk


Feumojsh11

OeuohzenfehaxshRsxgplcheuqhijjghuytxpohuhzexyjhcjushoejhxgjhuipxsingb
qjpnsjhxahenphynaj,hsjmyufngbhuyyhenphxyqhqjpnsjp;hoeuohzenfehaxshUggu
euqhijjghughntmxppniyj,hojssniyj,hugqhjrjghaxshoeuohsjupxghtxsj
jgosugfngbhqsjuthxahiynpp,hoeuohqjpnsjheuqhijjgha yanyyjqkhEjhpoxxq
ijaxsjhejs,hmuyj,henphyxzjsh.uzhw nrjsngb,hugqhijpx beohejshoxhijhfuyt,
gxohlgxzngbhexzhxshzeck

“Uggu!hUggu!”hejhpunqhznoehuhfexlngbhrxnfj,h“Uggu,haxshmnoc’phpulj!kkk”

I ohoejhyx qjshejhpmxlj,hoejhyxzjshpejhqsxmmjqhejshxgfjhmsx qhugqhbuc,
gxzhpeutj-posnfljghejuq,hugqhpejhixzjqhqxzghugqhpuglhasxthoejhpxau
zejsjhpejhzuphpnoongb,hqxzghxghoejhayxxs,huohenphajjo;hpejhzx yqheurj
auyyjghxghoejhfusmjohnahejheuqhgxohejyqhejsk

“TchBxq!hAxsbnrjhtj!”hpejhpunq,hpxiingb,hmsjppngbhenpheugqphoxhejs
ixpxtk

Pejhajyohpxhpnga y,hpxhb nyoc,hoeuohgxoengbhzuphyjaohejshi ohox
e tnynuojhejspjyahugqhijbhaxsbnrjgjpp;hugqhuphgxzhoejsjhzuphgxhxgjhng
ejshynajhi ohent,hoxhenthpejhuqqsjppjqhejshmsucjshaxshaxsbnrjgjppk
Yxxlngbhuohent,hpejheuqhuhmecpnfuyhpjgpjhxahejshe tnynuonxg,hugqhpej
fx yqhpuchgxoengbhtxsjkhEjhajyohzeuohuht sqjsjsht pohajjy,hzejghejhpjjp
oejhixqchejheuphsxiijqhxahynajkhOeuohixqc,hsxiijqhichenthxahynaj,hzup
oejnshyxrj,hoejhanspohpoubjhxahoejnshyxrjkhOejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhuza y
ugqhsjrxyongbhnghoejhtjtxschxahzeuoheuqhijjghix beohuohoenphajusa y
msnfjhxahpeutjkhPeutjhuohoejnshpmnsno uyhguljqgjpphfs pejqhejshugq
ngajfojqhentkhI ohnghpmnojhxahuyyhoejht sqjsjs’phexssxshijaxsjhoejhixqc
xahenphrnfont,hejht poheuflhnohoxhmnjfjp,henqjhoejhixqc,ht poh pjhzeuo
ejheuphbungjqhichenpht sqjsk

Ugqhznoeha sc,huphnohzjsjhznoehmuppnxg,hoejht sqjsjshauyyphxghoejhixqc,
ugqhqsubphnohugqheuflphuohno;hpxhejhfxrjsjqhejshaufjhugqhpex yqjsphznoe
lnppjpkhPejhejyqhenpheugq,hugqhqnqhgxohponskh“Cjp,hoejpjhlnppjp—oeuohnp
zeuoheuphijjghix beohichoenphpeutjkhCjp,hugqhxgjheugq,hzenfehznyy
uyzucphijhtngj—oejheugqhxahtchuffxtmynfjk”hPejhynaojqh mhoeuoheugqhugq
lnppjqhnokhEjhpuglhxghenphlgjjphugqhosnjqhoxhpjjhejshaufj;hi ohpejhenq
no,hugqhpunqhgxoengbkhUohyupo,huphoex behtulngbhughjaaxsohxrjshejspjya,
pejhbxoh mhugqhm pejqhenthuzuckhEjshaufjhzuphponyyhuphiju ona y,hi ohno
zuphxgychoejhtxsjhmnona yhaxshoeuok

“Uyyhnphxrjs,”hpejhpunq;h“Nheurjhgxoengbhi ohcx khSjtjtijshoeuok”

“NhfughgjrjshaxsbjohzeuohnphtchzexyjhynajkhAxshxgjhngpougohxahoenp
eummngjppkkkk”

“Eummngjpp!”hpejhpunqhznoehexssxshugqhyxuoengbhugqhejshexssxs
 gfxgpfnx pychngajfojqhentkh“Axshmnoc’phpulj,hgxohuhzxsq,hgxohuhzxsq
txsjk”

Pejhsxpjhw nflychugqhtxrjqhuzuchasxthentk

“Gxohuhzxsqhtxsj,”hpejhsjmjuojq,hugqhznoehuhyxxlhxahfenyyhqjpmuns,
ngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhent,hpejhmusojqhasxthentkhPejhajyohoeuohuohoeuo
txtjgohpejhfx yqhgxohm ohngoxhzxsqphoejhpjgpjhxahpeutj,hxahsumo sj,hugq
xahexssxshuohoenphpojmmngbhngoxhuhgjzhynaj,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohzugohox
pmjulhxahno,hoxhr ybusndjhoenphajjyngbhichngummsxmsnuojhzxsqpkhI o
yuojshoxx,hugqhoejhgjvohquchugqhoejhoensqhquc,hpejhponyyhax gqhgxhzxsqp
nghzenfehpejhfx yqhjvmsjpphoejhfxtmyjvnochxahejshajjyngbp;hngqjjq,hpej
fx yqhgxohjrjghangqhoex beophnghzenfehpejhfx yqhfyjusychoenglhx ohuyy
oeuohzuphnghejshpx yk

Pejhpunqhoxhejspjya:h“Gx,h. pohgxzhNhfug’ohoenglhxahno,hyuojshxg,hzejg
Nhuthfuytjsk”hI ohoenphfuythaxshoex beohgjrjshfutj;hjrjschontjhoej
oex beohsxpjhxahzeuohpejheuqhqxgjhugqhzeuohzx yqheummjghoxhejs,hugq
zeuohpejhx beohoxhqx,huhexssxshfutjhxrjshejshugqhpejhqsxrjhoexpj
oex beophuzuck

“Yuojs,hyuojs,”hpejhpunq—“zejghNhuthfuytjsk”

I ohnghqsjutp,hzejghpejheuqhgxhfxgosxyhxrjshejshoex beop,hejshmxpnonxg
msjpjgojqhnopjyahoxhejshnghuyyhnophenqjx phguljqgjppkhXgjhqsjutheu gojq
ejshuytxpohjrjschgnbeokhPejhqsjutjqhoeuohixoehzjsjhejshe piugqphuo
xgfj,hoeuohixoehzjsjhyurnpengbhfusjppjphxghejskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
zuphzjjmngb,hlnppngbhejsheugqp,hugqhpucngb,h“Exzheummchzjhusjhgxz!”hUgq
UyjvjchRsxgplchzuphoejsjhoxx,hugqhejhoxxhzuphejshe piugqkhUgqhpejhzup
tusrjyngbhoeuohnoheuqhxgfjhpjjtjqhntmxppniyjhoxhejs,hzuphjvmyungngbhox
oejt,hyu bengb,hoeuohoenphzuphjrjshpxht fehpntmyjs,hugqhoeuohgxzhixoe
xahoejthzjsjheummchugqhfxgojgojqkhI ohoenphqsjuthzjnbejqhxghejshynljhu
gnbeotusj,hugqhpejhuzxljhasxthnohnghojssxsk


Feumojsh12

Nghoejhjusychqucphuaojshenphsjo sghasxthTxpfxz,hzejgjrjshYjrng
pe qqjsjqhugqhbsjzhsjq,hsjtjtijsngbhoejhqnpbsufjhxahenphsj.jfonxg,hej
punqhoxhentpjya:h“Oenphzuph. pohexzhNh pjqhoxhpe qqjshugqhiy pe,
oenglngbhtcpjyah oojsychyxpo,hzejghNhzuphmy fljqhnghmecpnfphugqhqnqhgxo
bjohtchsjtxrj;hugqhexzhNhoex beohtcpjyah oojsychs ngjqhuaojshNheuq
tnptugubjqhoeuohuaaunshxahtchpnpojs’phoeuohzuphjgos pojqhoxhtjkhUgq
cjo,hgxzhoeuohcjuspheurjhmuppjq,hNhsjfuyyhnohugqhzxgqjshoeuohnohfx yq
qnposjpphtjhpxht fekhNohznyyhijhoejhputjhoengbhoxxhznoehoenphosx iyjk
OntjhznyyhbxhichugqhNhpeuyyhgxohtngqhuix ohoenphjnoejsk”

I ohoesjjhtxgoepheuqhmuppjqhugqhejheuqhgxohyjaohxaahtngqngbhuix ohno;
ugqhnohzuphuphmunga yhaxshenthoxhoenglhxahnohuphnoheuqhijjghoexpjhanspo
qucpkhEjhfx yqhgxohijhuohmjufjhijfu pjhuaojshqsjutngbhpxhyxgbhxahautnyc
ynaj,hugqhajjyngbhentpjyahpxhsnmjhaxshno,hejhzuphponyyhgxohtussnjq,hugq
zupha soejshoeughjrjshasxthtussnubjkhEjhzuphmunga yychfxgpfnx p
entpjya,huphzjsjhuyyhuix ohent,hoeuohuohenphcjusphnohnphgxohzjyyhaxs
tughoxhijhuyxgjkhEjhsjtjtijsjqhexzhijaxsjhpousongbhaxshTxpfxzhejheuq
xgfjhpunqhoxhenphfxztughGnlxyuc,huhpntmyj-ejusojqhmjupugo,hzexthej
ynljqhouylngbhox:h“Zjyy,hGnlxyuc!hNhtjughoxhbjohtussnjq,”hugqhexz
Gnlxyucheuqhmsxtmoychugpzjsjq,huphxahuhtuoojshxghzenfehoejsjhfx yqhij
gxhmxppniyjhqx io:h“Ugqhenbehontjhoxx,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofek”hI o
tussnubjheuqhgxzhijfxtjha soejshxaahoeughjrjskhOejhmyufjhzuphouljg,hugq
zejgjrjshejhosnjqhoxhntubngjhugchxahoejhbnsyphejhlgjzhnghoeuohmyufj,hej
ajyohoeuohnohzuph oojsychntmxppniyjkhTxsjxrjs,hoejhsjfxyyjfonxghxahoej
sj.jfonxghugqhoejhmusohejheuqhmyucjqhnghoejhuaaunshoxso sjqhenthznoe
peutjkhExzjrjshxaojghejhoxyqhentpjyahoeuohejhzuphnghgxhznpjhoxhiyutjhng
no,hoeuohsjfxyyjfonxg,hynljhxoejshe tnynuongbhsjtngnpfjgfjphxahu
pntnyushlngq,htuqjhenthozngbjhugqhiy pekhOejsjheuqhijjghnghenphmupo,hup
nghjrjschtug’p,hufonxgp,hsjfxbgndjqhichenthuphiuq,haxshzenfehenp
fxgpfnjgfjhx beohoxheurjhoxstjgojqhent;hi ohoejhtjtxschxahoejpjhjrny
ufonxgphzuphaushasxthfu pngbhenthpxht fehp aajsngbhuphoexpjhosnrnuyhi o
e tnynuongbhsjtngnpfjgfjpkhOejpjhzx gqphgjrjshejuyjqkhUgqhznoehoejpj
tjtxsnjphzuphgxzhsugbjqhenphsj.jfonxghugqhoejhmnona yhmxpnonxghnghzenfe
ejht poheurjhummjusjqhoxhxoejsphoeuohjrjgngbkhI ohontjhugqhzxslhqnq
oejnshmusokhInoojshtjtxsnjphzjsjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhfxrjsjqh mhichoej
ngfnqjgop—muyoschnghenphjcjp,hi ohsjuyychntmxsougo—xahenphfx goschynajk
Jrjschzjjlhejhoex beohyjpphxaojghxahLnoockhEjhzuphntmuonjgoychyxxlngb
axszusqhoxhoejhgjzphoeuohpejhzuphtussnjq,hxsh. pohbxngbhoxhijhtussnjq,
exmngbhoeuohp fehgjzphzx yq,hynljheurngbhuhoxxoehx o,hfxtmyjojychf sj
entk

Tjugzenyjhpmsngbhfutjhxg,hiju ona yhugqhlngqyc,hznoex ohoejhqjyucphugq
osjufejsnjphxahpmsngb,—xgjhxahoexpjhsusjhpmsngbphnghzenfehmyugop,
ijupop,hugqhtughsj.xnfjhuynljkhOenphyxrjychpmsngbhsx pjqhYjrnghponyy
txsj,hugqhposjgboejgjqhenthnghenphsjpxy onxghxahsjgx gfngbhuyyhenphmupo
ugqhi nyqngbh mhenphyxgjychynajhanstychugqhngqjmjgqjgoyckhOex behtugc
xahoejhmyugphznoehzenfehejheuqhsjo sgjqhoxhoejhfx goscheuqhgxohijjg
fussnjqhx o,hponyyhenphtxpohntmxsougohsjpxy onxg—oeuohxahm snoc—euq
ijjghljmohichentkhEjhzuphasjjhasxthoeuohpeutj,hzenfeheuqh p uyyc
eusuppjqhenthuaojshuhauyy;hugqhejhfx yqhyxxlhjrjscxgjhposunbeohnghoej
aufjkhNghAjis uschejheuqhsjfjnrjqhuhyjoojshasxthTuscuhGnlxyujrgu
ojyyngbhenthoeuohenphisxoejshGnlxyuc’phejuyoehzuphbjoongbhzxspj,hi o
oeuohejhzx yqhgxohouljhuqrnfj,hugqhnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahoenphyjoojshYjrng
zjgohoxhTxpfxzhoxhenphisxoejs’phugqhp ffjjqjqhnghmjsp uqngbhenthoxhpjj
uhqxfoxshugqhoxhbxhoxhuhzuojsngb-myufjhuisxuqkhEjhp ffjjqjqhpxhzjyyhng
mjsp uqngbhenphisxoejs,hugqhnghyjgqngbhenthtxgjchaxshoejh.x sgjc
znoex ohnssnouongbhent,hoeuohejhzuphpuonpanjqhznoehentpjyahnghoeuo
tuoojskhNghuqqnonxghoxhenphaustngb,hzenfehfuyyjqhaxshpmjfnuyhuoojgonxg
nghpmsngb,hugqhnghuqqnonxghoxhsjuqngb,hYjrngheuqhijb ghoeuohzngojshu
zxslhxghubsnf yo sj,hoejhmyughxahzenfeho sgjqhxghoulngbhngoxhuffx go
oejhfeusufojshxahoejhyuixsjshxghoejhyugqhuphxgjhxahoejh guyojsuiyjhquou
xahoejhw jponxg,hynljhoejhfyntuojhugqhoejhpxny,hugqhfxgpjw jgoyc
qjq fngbhuyyhoejhmsngfnmyjphxahpfnjgonanfhf yo sj,hgxohpntmychasxthoej
quouhxahpxnyhugqhfyntuoj,hi ohasxthoejhquouhxahpxny,hfyntuoj,hugqhu
fjsoungh guyojsuiyjhfeusufojshxahoejhyuixsjskhOe p,hnghpmnojhxahenp
pxyno qj,hxshnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahenphpxyno qj,henphynajhzuphjvfjjqngbyc
a yykhXgychsusjychejhp aajsjqhasxthugh gpuonpanjqhqjpnsjhoxhfxtt gnfuoj
enphposuchnqjuphoxhpxtjxgjhijpnqjphUbuajuhTneuyxrgukhZnoehejshngqjjqhej
gxohngasjw jgoychajyyhngoxhqnpf ppnxgh mxghmecpnfp,hoejhoejxschxa
ubsnf yo sj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychmenyxpxmec;hmenyxpxmechzuphUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu’phaurxsnojhp i.jfok

Pmsngbhzuphpyxzhngh gaxyqngbkhAxshoejhyupohajzhzjjlphnoheuqhijjg
pojuqnychangjhasxpochzjuoejskhNghoejhqucontjhnohoeuzjqhnghoejhp g,hi o
uohgnbeohoejsjhzjsjhjrjghpjrjghqjbsjjphxahasxpokhOejsjhzuphp fehu
asxdjghp saufjhxghoejhpgxzhoeuohoejchqsxrjhoejhzubxgphugczejsjhxaahoej
sxuqpkhJupojshfutjhnghoejhpgxzkhOejghuyyhxahuhp qqjg,hxghJupojshTxgquc,
uhzusthzngqhpmsugbh m,hpoxsthfyx qphpzxxmjqhqxzg,hugqhaxshoesjjhqucp
ugqhoesjjhgnbeophoejhzust,hqsnrngbhsunghajyyhnghposjutpkhXghOe spquc
oejhzngqhqsxmmjq,hugqhuhoenflhbsuchaxbhisxxqjqhxrjshoejhyugqhuphoex be
enqngbhoejhtcpojsnjphxahoejhosugpaxstuonxgphoeuohzjsjhijngbhzsx beohng
guo sjkhIjengqhoejhaxbhoejsjhzuphoejhayxzngbhxahzuojs,hoejhfsuflngbhugq
ayxuongbhxahnfj,hoejhpznaohs pehxaho sinq,haxutngbhoxssjgop;hugqhxghoej
axyyxzngbhTxgquc,hnghoejhjrjgngb,hoejhaxbhmusojq,hoejhpoxsthfyx qp
pmynoh mhngoxhynooyjhf syngbhfsjpophxahfyx q,hoejhplchfyjusjq,hugqhoej
sjuyhpmsngbheuqhfxtjkhNghoejhtxsgngbhoejhp ghsxpjhisnyynugohugqhw nflyc
zxsjhuzuchoejhoenghyucjshxahnfjhoeuohfxrjsjqhoejhzuojs,hugqhuyyhoej
zusthunshzuphw nrjsngbhznoehoejhpojuthoeuohsxpjh mhasxthoejhw nfljgjq
jusoekhOejhxyqhbsupphyxxljqhbsjjgjs,hugqhoejhcx gbhbsupphoes poh mhnop
ongchiyuqjp;hoejhi qphxahoejhb jyqjs-sxpjhugqhxahoejhf ssugohugqhoej
ponflchinsfe-i qphzjsjhpzxyyjghznoehpum,hugqhughjvmyxsngbhijjhzup
e ttngbhuix ohoejhbxyqjghiyxppxtphoeuohpo qqjqhoejhznyyxzkhYuslp
osnyyjqh gpjjghuixrjhoejhrjyrjochbsjjghanjyqphugqhoejhnfj-fxrjsjq
po iiyj-yugq;hmjjznophzunyjqhxrjshoejhyxzhyugqphugqhtuspejphayxxqjqhic
oejhmxxyp;hfsugjphugqhznyqhbjjpjhayjzhenbehufsxpphoejhplch oojsngb
oejnshpmsngbhfuyypkhOejhfuooyj,hiuyqhnghmuofejphzejsjhoejhgjzheunsheuq
gxohbsxzghcjo,hyxzjqhnghoejhmupo sjp;hoejhixzyjbbjqhyutiphasnpljqhsx gq
oejnshiyjuongbhtxoejspkhGntiyjhfenyqsjghsughuix ohoejhqscngbhmuoep,
fxrjsjqhznoehoejhmsngophxahiusjhajjokhOejsjhzuphuhtjsschfeuoojshxa
mjupugohzxtjghxrjshoejnshyngjghuohoejhmxgq,hugqhoejhsngbhxahuvjphnghoej
cusq,hzejsjhoejhmjupugophzjsjhsjmunsngbhmyx bephugqheussxzpkhOejhsjuy
pmsngbheuqhfxtjk


Feumojsh13

Yjrnghm ohxghenphinbhixxop,hugq,haxshoejhanspohontj,huhfyxoeh.ufljo,
ngpojuqhxahenpha shfyxul,hugqhzjgohx ohoxhyxxlhuaojshenphaust,hpojmmngb
xrjshposjutphxahzuojshoeuohayupejqhnghoejhp gpengjhugqhquddyjqhenp
jcjp,hugqhosjuqngbhxgjhtng ojhxghnfjhugqhoejhgjvohngoxhponflcht qk

Pmsngbhnphoejhontjhxahmyugphugqhmsx.jfopkhUgq,huphejhfutjhx ohngoxhoej
austcusq,hYjrng,hynljhuhosjjhnghpmsngbhoeuohlgxzphgxohzeuohaxsthznyyhij
ouljghichoejhcx gbhpexxophugqhoznbphntmsnpxgjqhnghnophpzjyyngbhi qp,
eusqychlgjzhzeuoh gqjsoulngbphejhzuphbxngbhoxhijbngh mxghgxzhnghoej
austhzxslhoeuohzuphpxhqjushoxhentkhI ohejhajyohoeuohejhzupha yyhxahoej
txpohpmyjgqnqhmyugphugqhmsx.jfopkhAnspohxahuyyhejhzjgohoxhoejhfuooyjk
Oejhfxzpheuqhijjghyjohx ohngoxhoejnshmuqqxfl,hugqhoejnshptxxoehpnqjp
zjsjhuysjuqchpengngbhznoehoejnshgjz,hpyjjl,hpmsngbhfxuop;hoejchiupljq
nghoejhp gpengjhugqhyxzjqhoxhbxhoxhoejhtjuqxzkhYjrnghbudjqhuqtnsngbyc
uohoejhfxzphejhlgjzhpxhngontuojychoxhoejhtng ojpohqjounyhxahoejns
fxgqnonxg,hugqhburjhxsqjsphaxshoejthoxhijhqsnrjghx ohngoxhoejhtjuqxz,
ugqhoejhfuyrjphoxhijhyjohngoxhoejhmuqqxflkhOejhejsqptughsughbunychox
bjohsjuqchaxshoejhtjuqxzkhOejhfxzejsqhbnsyp,hmnflngbh mhoejns
mjoonfxuop,hsughpmyupengbhoesx behoejht qhznoehiusjhyjbp,hponyyhzenoj,
gxohcjohisxzghasxthoejhp g,hzurngbhis pehzxxqhnghoejnsheugqp,hfeupngb
oejhfuyrjphoeuohasxynfljqhnghoejhtnsoehxahpmsngbk

Uaojshuqtnsngbhoejhcx gbhxgjphxahoeuohcjus,hzexhzjsjhmusonf yusyc
angj—oejhjusychfuyrjphzjsjhoejhpndjhxahuhmjupugo’phfxz,hugqhMuru’p
qu beojs,huohoesjjhtxgoephxyq,hzuphuphinbhuphuhcjusyngb—Yjrnghburj
xsqjsphaxshuhosx behoxhijhisx beohx ohugqhaxshoejthoxhijhajqhnghoej
muqqxflkhI ohnohummjusjqhoeuohuphoejhmuqqxflheuqhgxohijjgh pjqhq sngb
oejhzngojs,hoejhe sqyjphtuqjhnghoejhu o tghaxshnohzjsjhisxljgkhEjhpjgo
axshoejhfusmjgojs,hzex,huffxsqngbhoxhenphxsqjsp,hx beohoxheurjhijjghuo
zxslhuohoejhoesupengbhtufengjkhI ohnohummjusjqhoeuohoejhfusmjgojshzup
sjmunsngbhoejheussxzp,hzenfehx beohoxheurjhijjghsjmunsjqhijaxsjhYjgok
OenphzuphrjschuggxcngbhoxhYjrngkhNohzuphuggxcngbhoxhfxtjh mxghoeuo
jrjsyupongbhpyxrjgyngjpphnghoejhausthzxslhubungpohzenfehejheuqhijjg
posnrngbhznoehuyyhenphtnbeohaxshpxhtugchcjuspkhOejhe sqyjp,huphej
upfjsoungjq,hijngbhgxohzugojqhnghzngojs,heuqhijjghfussnjqhoxhoej
fuso-exspjp’hpouiyj;hugqhoejsjhisxljg,huphoejchzjsjhxahynbeo
fxgpos fonxg,hxgychtjugohaxshajjqngbhfuyrjpkhTxsjxrjs,hnohzuphummusjgo
uypxhoeuohoejheussxzphugqhuyyhoejhubsnf yo suyhntmyjtjgop,hzenfehejheuq
qnsjfojqhoxhijhyxxljqhxrjshugqhsjmunsjqhnghoejhzngojs,haxshzenfehrjsc
m smxpjhejheuqhensjqhoesjjhfusmjgojsp,heuqhgxohijjghm ohngoxhsjmuns,
ugqhoejheussxzphzjsjhijngbhsjmunsjqhzejghoejchx beohoxheurjhijjg
eussxzngbhoejhanjyqkhYjrnghpjgohaxshenphiunynaa,hi ohnttjqnuojychzjgo
xaahentpjyahoxhyxxlhaxshentkhOejhiunynaa,hijutngbhuyyhxrjs,hynlj
jrjscxgjhoeuohquc,hnghuhpejjmplnghixsqjsjqhznoehuposufeug,hfutjhx ohxa
oejhiusg,hoznpongbhuhinohxahposuzhnghenpheugqpk

“Zechnpg’ohoejhfusmjgojshuohoejhoesupengbhtufengj?”

“Xe,hNhtjugohoxhojyyhcx hcjpojsquc,hoejheussxzphzugohsjmunsngbkhEjsj
no’phontjhoejchbxohoxhzxslhnghoejhanjyqpk”

“I ohzeuohzjsjhoejchqxngbhnghoejhzngojs,hoejg?”

“I ohzeuohqnqhcx hzugohoejhfusmjgojshaxs?”

“Zejsjhusjhoejhe sqyjphaxshoejhfuyrjp’hmuqqxfl?”

“NhxsqjsjqhoejthoxhijhbxohsjuqckhZeuohzx yqhcx heurjhznoehoexpj
mjupugop!”hpunqhoejhiunynaa,hznoehuhzurjhxahenpheugqk

“No’phgxohoexpjhmjupugophi ohoenphiunynaa!”hpunqhYjrng,hbjoongbhugbsck
“Zec,hzeuohqxhNhljjmhcx haxs?”hejhfsnjqkhI o,hijoenglngbhentpjyahoeuo
oenphzx yqhgxohejymhtuoojsp,hejhpoxmmjqhpexsohnghoejhtnqqyjhxahu
pjgojgfj,hugqhtjsjychpnbejqkh“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hpuc?hFughpxzngbhijbng?”
ejhupljq,huaojshuhmu pjk

“IjengqhO slnghoxtxssxzhxshoejhgjvohquchoejchtnbeohijbngk”

“Ugqhoejhfyxrjs?”

“N’rjhpjgohRuppnychugqhTnpelu;hoejc’sjhpxzngbkhXgychNhqxg’ohlgxzhna
oejc’yyhtugubjhoxhbjohoesx be;hno’phpxhpy peck”

“Exzhtugchufsjp?”

“Uix ohanaojjgk”

“Zechgxohpxzhuyy?”hfsnjqhYjrngk

Oeuohoejchzjsjhxgychpxzngbhoejhfyxrjshxghanaojjghufsjp,hgxohxghuyyhoej
axsoc-anrj,hzuphponyyhtxsjhuggxcngbhoxhentkhFyxrjs,huphejhlgjz,hixoe
asxthixxlphugqhasxthenphxzghjvmjsnjgfj,hgjrjshqnqhzjyyhjvfjmohzejghno
zuphpxzghuphjusychuphmxppniyj,huytxpohnghoejhpgxzkhUgqhcjohYjrnghfx yq
gjrjshbjohoenphqxgjk

“Oejsj’phgxhxgjhoxhpjgqkhZeuohzx yqhcx heurjhznoehp fehuhpjohxa
mjupugop?hOesjjheurjg’oho sgjqh mkhUgqhoejsj’phPjtcxgkkkk”

“Zjyy,hcx hpex yqheurjhouljghpxtjhtjghasxthoejhoeuofengbk”

“UgqhpxhNheurj,huphnohnpk”

“Zejsjhusjhoejhmjupugop,hoejg?”

“Anrjhusjhtulngbhfxtmôoj”h(zenfehtjugohfxtmxpo),h“ax shusjhpenaongbhoej
xuophaxshajushxahuhox fehxahtnyqjz,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofek”

Yjrnghlgjzhrjschzjyyhoeuoh“uhox fehxahtnyqjz”htjugohoeuohenphJgbynpe
pjjqhxuophzjsjhuysjuqchs ngjqkhUbunghoejcheuqhgxohqxgjhuphejheuq
xsqjsjqk

“Zec,hi ohNhoxyqhcx hq sngbhYjgohoxhm ohnghmnmjp,”hejhfsnjqk

“Qxg’ohm ohcx spjyahx o;hzjhpeuyyhbjohnohuyyhqxgjhnghontjk”

Yjrnghzurjqhenpheugqhugbsnyc,hzjgohngoxhoejhbsuguschoxhbyugfjhuohoej
xuop,hugqhoejghoxhoejhpouiyjkhOejhxuophzjsjhgxohcjohpmxnyjqkhI ohoej
mjupugophzjsjhfusscngbhoejhxuophnghpmuqjphzejghoejchtnbeohpntmychyjo
oejthpynqjhqxzghngoxhoejhyxzjshbsugusc;hugqhussugbngbhaxshoenphoxhij
qxgj,hugqhoulngbhozxhzxsltjghasxthoejsjhaxshpxzngbhfyxrjs,hYjrnghbxo
xrjshenphrjvuonxghznoehoejhiunynaakhNgqjjq,hnohzuphp fehuhyxrjychquc
oeuohxgjhfx yqhgxohijhugbsck

“Nbguo!”hejhfuyyjqhoxhoejhfxufetug,hzex,hznoehenphpyjjrjpho fljqh m,
zuphzupengbhoejhfussnubjhzejjyp,h“puqqyjhtjkkkk”

“Zenfe,hpns?”

“Zjyy,hyjohnohijhLxymnlk”

“Cjp,hpnsk”

Zenyjhoejchzjsjhpuqqyngbhenphexspj,hYjrnghubunghfuyyjqh mhoejhiunynaa,
zexhzupheugbngbhuix ohnghpnbeo,hoxhtuljhnoh mhznoehent,hugqhijbug
ouylngbhoxhenthuix ohoejhpmsngbhxmjsuonxgphijaxsjhoejt,hugqhenphmyugp
axshoejhaustk

Oejhzubxgphzjsjhoxhijbnghfusongbhtug sjhjusynjs,hpxhuphoxhbjohuyyhqxgj
ijaxsjhoejhjusychtxzngbkhUgqhoejhmyx bengbhxahoejha soejshyugqhoxhbxhxg
znoex ohuhisjulhpxhuphoxhyjohnohsnmjghycngbhauyyxzkhUgqhoejhtxzngbhox
ijhuyyhqxgjhichensjqhyuixs,hgxohxgheuya-msxanopkhOejhiunynaahynpojgjq
uoojgonrjyc,hugqhxirnx pychtuqjhughjaaxsohoxhummsxrjhxahenphjtmyxcjs’p
msx.jfopkhI ohponyyhejheuqhoeuohyxxlhYjrnghlgjzhpxhzjyyhoeuohuyzucp
nssnouojqhent,huhyxxlhxahexmjyjppgjpphugqhqjpmxgqjgfckhOeuohyxxlhpunq:
“Oeuo’phuyyhrjschzjyy,hi ohuphBxqhznyypk”

GxoengbhtxsonanjqhYjrnghpxht fehuphoeuohoxgjkhI ohnohzuphoejhoxgj
fxttxghoxhuyyhoejhiunynaaphejheuqhjrjsheuqkhOejcheuqhuyyhouljgh mhoeuo
uoono qjhoxhenphmyugp,hugqhpxhgxzhejhzuphgxohugbjsjqhichno,hi o
txsonanjq,hugqhajyohuyyhoejhtxsjhsx pjqhoxhpos bbyjhubungpohoenp,huphno
pjjtjq,hjyjtjgouyhaxsfjhfxgong uyychsugbjqhubungpohent,haxshzenfehej
fx yqhangqhgxhxoejshjvmsjppnxghoeugh“uphBxqhznyypk”

“Nahzjhfughtugubjhno,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hpunqhoejhiunynaak

“Zechjrjshpex yqg’ohcx htugubjhno?”

“Zjhmxpnonrjycht poheurjhugxoejshanaojjghyuixsjspkhUgqhoejchqxg’oho sg
 mkhOejsjhzjsjhpxtjhejsjhoxquchuplngbhpjrjgochsx iyjphaxshoejhp ttjsk”

YjrnghzuphpnyjgokhUbunghejhzuphisx beohaufjhoxhaufjhznoehoeuohxmmxpngb
axsfjkhEjhlgjzhoeuohexzjrjsht fehoejchosnjq,hoejchfx yqhgxohensjhtxsj
oeughaxsoc—oensoc-pjrjghmjseumphxshoensoc-jnbeo—yuixsjsphaxshu
sjupxguiyjhp tkhPxtjhaxsocheuqhijjghouljghxg,hugqhoejsjhzjsjhgxhtxsjk
I ohponyyhejhfx yqhgxohejymhpos bbyngbhubungpohnok

“PjgqhoxhP sc,hoxhOfejansxrlu;hnahoejchqxg’ohfxtjhzjht pohyxxlhaxs
oejtk”

“Xe,hN’yyhpjgq,hoxhijhp sj,”hpunqhRuppnychAjqxsxrnofehqjpmxgqjgoyck
“I ohoejsjhusjhoejhexspjp,hoxx,hoejc’sjhgxohbxxqhaxsht fek”

“Zj’yyhbjohpxtjhtxsjkhNhlgxz,hxahfx spj,”hYjrnghuqqjqhyu bengb,h“cx 
uyzucphzugohoxhqxhznoehuphynooyjhugqhuphmxxshw uynochuphmxppniyj;hi o
oenphcjushN’thgxohbxngbhoxhyjohcx heurjhoengbphcx shxzghzuckhN’yyhpjj
oxhjrjscoengbhtcpjyak”

“Zec,hNhqxg’ohoenglhcx houljht fehsjpohuphnohnpkhNohfejjsph ph mhox
zxslh gqjshoejhtupojs’phjcjkkkk”

“Pxhoejc’sjhpxzngbhfyxrjshijengqhoejhInsfehQuyj?hN’yyhbxhugqheurjhu
yxxlhuohoejt,”hejhpunq,hbjoongbhxghoxhoejhynooyjhiuchfxi,hLxymnl,hzex
zuphyjqh mhichoejhfxufetugk

“Cx hfug’ohbjohufsxpphoejhposjutp,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hoej
fxufetughpex ojqk

“Uyyhsnbeo,hN’yyhbxhichoejhaxsjpok”

UgqhYjrnghsxqjhoesx behoejhpy pehxahoejhaustcusqhoxhoejhbuojhugqhx o
ngoxhoejhxmjghfx gosc,henphbxxqhynooyjhexspj,huaojshenphyxgb
ngufonrnoc,hpojmmngbhx ohbuyyugoyc,hpgxsongbhxrjshoejhmxxyp,hugq
uplngb,huphnohzjsj,haxshb nqugfjkhNahYjrngheuqhajyoheummchijaxsjhnghoej
fuooyjhmjgphugqhaustcusq,hejhajyoheummnjshcjohnghoejhxmjghfx gosck
Pzucngbhsecoetnfuyychznoehoejhutiyngbhmufjphxahenphbxxqhynooyjhfxi,
qsnglngbhnghoejhzusthcjohasjpehpfjgohxahoejhpgxzhugqhoejhuns,huphej
sxqjhoesx behenphaxsjpohxrjshoejhfs tiyngb,hzupojqhpgxz,hponyyhyjaohng
musop,hugqhfxrjsjqhznoehqnppxyrngbhosuflp,hejhsj.xnfjqhxrjshjrjschosjj,
znoehoejhtxpphsjrnrngbhxghnophiuslhugqhoejhi qphpzjyyngbhxghnophpexxopk
Zejghejhfutjhx ohxahoejhaxsjpo,hnghoejhnttjgpjhmyunghijaxsjhent,henp
bsupphanjyqphposjofejqhnghugh gisxljghfusmjohxahbsjjg,hznoex ohxgjhiusj
myufjhxshpzutm,hxgychpmxoojqhejsjhugqhoejsjhnghoejhexyyxzphznoehmuofejp
xahtjyongbhpgxzkhEjhzuphgxohm ohx ohxahojtmjshjrjghichoejhpnbeohxahoej
mjupugop’hexspjphugqhfxyophosutmyngbhqxzghenphcx gbhbsupph(ejhoxyqhu
mjupugohejhtjohoxhqsnrjhoejthx o),hgxshichoejhpusfuponfhugqhpo mnq
sjmychxahoejhmjupugohNmuo,hzexthejhtjohxghoejhzuc,hugqhupljq,h“Zjyy,
Nmuo,hpeuyyhzjhpxxghijhpxzngb?”h“Zjht pohbjohoejhmyx bengbhqxgjhanspo,
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hugpzjsjqhNmuokhOejha soejshejhsxqj,hoej
eummnjshejhijfutj,hugqhmyugphaxshoejhyugqhsxpjhoxhenphtngqhjufehijoojs
oeughoejhyupo;hoxhmyugohuyyhenphanjyqphznoehejqbjphuyxgbhoejhpx oejsg
ixsqjsp,hpxhoeuohoejhpgxzhpex yqhgxohynjh gqjshoejt;hoxhqnrnqjhoejth m
ngoxhpnvhanjyqphxahusuiyjhugqhoesjjhxahmupo sjhugqheuc;hoxhi nyqhu
fuooyjhcusqhuohoejha soejshjgqhxahoejhjpouoj,hugqhoxhqnbhuhmxgqhugqhox
fxgpos fohtxruiyjhmjgphaxshoejhfuooyjhuphuhtjugphxahtug sngbhoejhyugqk
Ugqhoejghjnbeohe gqsjqhufsjphxahzejuo,hoesjjhe gqsjqhxahmxouoxjp,hugq
ax she gqsjqhxahfyxrjs,hugqhgxohxgjhufsjhjveu pojqk

Uipxsijqhnghp fehqsjutp,hfusja yychljjmngbhenphexspjhichoejhejqbjp,hpx
uphgxohoxhosutmyjhenphcx gbhfsxmp,hejhsxqjh mhoxhoejhyuixsjsphzexheuq
ijjghpjgohoxhpxzhfyxrjskhUhfusohznoehoejhpjjqhnghnohzuphpougqngb,hgxo
uohoejhjqbj,hi ohnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhfsxm,hugqhoejhzngojshfxsgheuq
ijjghoxsgh mhichoejhzejjyphugqhosutmyjqhichoejhexspjkhIxoehoejhyuixsjsp
zjsjhpnoongbhnghoejhejqbj,hmsxiuiychptxlngbhuhmnmjhoxbjoejskhOejhjusoe
nghoejhfuso,hznoehzenfehoejhpjjqhzuphtnvjq,hzuphgxohfs pejqhoxhmxzqjs,
i ohfs pojqhoxbjoejshxshuqejsngbhnghfyxqpkhPjjngbhoejhtupojs,hoej
yuixsjs,hRuppnyc,hzjgohoxzusqphoejhfuso,hzenyjhTnpeluhpjohoxhzxsl
pxzngbkhOenphzuphgxohuphnohpex yqhij,hi ohznoehoejhyuixsjsphYjrng
pjyqxthyxpohenphojtmjskhZejghRuppnychfutjh m,hYjrnghoxyqhenthoxhyjuq
oejhexspjhoxhoejhejqbjk

“No’phuyyhsnbeo,hpns,hno’yyhpmsngbh mhubung,”hsjpmxgqjqhRuppnyck

“Myjupjhqxg’ohusb j,”hpunqhYjrng,h“i ohqxhuphcx ’sjhoxyqk”

“Cjp,hpns,”hugpzjsjqhRuppnyc,hugqhejhoxxlhoejhexspj’phejuqkh“Zeuohu
pxzngb,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hejhpunq,hejpnouongb;h“anspohsuojk
Xgychno’phuhzxslhoxhbjohuix o!hCx hqsubhuhoxghxahjusoehxghcx shpexjpk”

“Zechnphnohcx heurjhjusoehoeuo’phgxohpnaojq?”hpunqhYjrngk

“Zjyy,hzjhfs tiyjhnoh m,”hugpzjsjqhRuppnyc,houlngbh mhpxtjhpjjqhugq
sxyyngbhoejhjusoehnghenphmuytpk

Ruppnychzuphgxohoxhiyutjhaxshoejnsheurngbhanyyjqh mhenphfusohznoe
 gpnaojqhjusoe,hi ohponyyhnohzuphuggxcngbk

Yjrngheuqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhuysjuqchosnjqhuhzuchejhlgjzhaxshponayngbhenp
ugbjs,hugqho sgngbhuyyhoeuohpjjtjqhquslhsnbeohubung,hugqhejhosnjqhoeuo
zuchgxzkhEjhzuofejqhexzhTnpeluhposxqjhuyxgb,hpzngbngbhoejhe bjhfyxqphxa
jusoehoeuohfy gbhoxhjufehaxxo;hugqhbjoongbhxaahenphexspj,hejhoxxlhoej
pnjrjhasxthRuppnychugqhpousojqhpxzngbhentpjyak

“Zejsjhqnqhcx hpoxm?”

Ruppnychmxngojqhoxhoejhtuslhznoehenphaxxo,hugqhYjrnghzjgohaxszusqhup
ijpohejhfx yq,hpfuoojsngbhoejhpjjqhxghoejhyugqkhZuylngbhzuphup
qnaanf yohuphxghuhixb,hugqhichoejhontjhYjrngheuqhjgqjqhoejhsxzhejhzup
nghuhbsjuohejuo,hugqhejhpoxmmjqhugqhburjh mhoejhpnjrjhoxhRuppnyck

“Zjyy,htupojs,hzejghp ttjs’phejsj,htngqhcx hqxg’ohpfxyqhtjhaxshoejpj
sxzp,”hpunqhRuppnyck

“Je?”hpunqhYjrnghfejjsnyc,huysjuqchajjyngbhoejhjaajfohxahenphtjoexqk

“Zec,hcx ’yyhpjjhnghoejhp ttjshontjkhNo’yyhyxxlhqnaajsjgokhYxxlhcx 
zejsjhNhpxzjqhyupohpmsngbkhExzhNhqnqhzxslhuohno!hNhqxhtchijpo,
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,hq’cjhpjj,huphNhzx yqhaxshtchxzghauoejskhN
qxg’ohynljhiuqhzxslhtcpjya,hgxshzx yqhNhyjohugxoejshtughqxhnokhZeuo’p
bxxqhaxshoejhtupojs’phbxxqhaxsh phoxxkhOxhyxxlhx ohcxgqjshgxz,”hpunq
Ruppnyc,hmxngongb,h“nohqxjphxgj’phejusohbxxqk”

“No’phuhyxrjychpmsngb,hRuppnyck”

“Zec,hno’phuhpmsngbhp fehuphoejhxyqhtjghqxg’ohsjtjtijshoejhynljhxakhN
zuph mhextj;hughxyqhtugh mhoejsjheuphpxzghzejuohoxx,huix ohughufsjhxa
nokhEjhzuphpucngbhcx hzx yqg’ohlgxzhnohasxthscjk”

“Eurjhcx hijjghpxzngbhzejuohyxgb?”

“Zec,hpns,hnohzuphcx hou beoh phoejhcjushijaxsjhyupokhCx hburjhtjhozx
tjup sjpkhZjhpxyqhuix ohjnbeohi pejyphugqhpxzjqhuhsxxqk”

“Zjyy,htngqhcx hfs tiyjh mhoejhfyxqp,”hpunqhYjrng,hbxngbhoxzusqphenp
exspj,h“ugqhljjmhughjcjhxghTnpelukhUgqhnahoejsj’phuhbxxqhfsxmhcx hpeuyy
eurjheuyahuhsx iyjhaxshjrjschufsjk”

“E tiychoeugla ykhZjhusjhrjschzjyyhfxgojgo,hpns,huphnohnpk”

Yjrnghbxohxghenphexspjhugqhsxqjhoxzusqphoejhanjyqhzejsjhzuphyupohcjus’p
fyxrjs,hugqhoejhxgjhzenfehzuphmyx bejqhsjuqchaxshoejhpmsngbhfxsgk

Oejhfsxmhxahfyxrjshfxtngbh mhnghoejhpo iiyjhzuphtubgnanfjgokhNoheuq
p srnrjqhjrjscoengb,hugqhpoxxqh mhrnrnqychbsjjghoesx behoejhisxljg
pouylphxahyupohcjus’phzejuokhOejhexspjhpuglhngh mhoxhoejhmupojsgp,hugq
ejhqsjzhjufehexxahznoehuhp flngbhpx gqhx ohxahoejheuya-oeuzjqhbsx gqk
Xrjshoejhmyx beyugqhsnqngbhzuph oojsychntmxppniyj;hoejhexspjhfx yqhxgyc
ljjmhuhaxxoexyqhzejsjhoejsjhzuphnfj,hugqhnghoejhoeuzngbha ssxzphejhpugl
qjjmhnghuohjufehpojmkhOejhmyx beyugqhzuphnghpmyjgqnqhfxgqnonxg;hnghu
fx myjhxahqucphnohzx yqhijhanohaxsheussxzngbhugqhpxzngbkhJrjscoengbhzup
fumnouy,hjrjscoengbhzuphfejjsngbkhYjrnghsxqjhiuflhufsxpphoejhposjutp,
exmngbhoejhzuojshzx yqheurjhbxgjhqxzgkhUgqhejhqnqhnghaufohbjohufsxpp,
ugqhpousoyjqhozxhq flpkh“Oejsjht pohijhpgnmjhoxx,”hejhoex beo,hugqh. po
uphejhsjufejqhoejho sgngbhextjzusqphejhtjohoejhaxsjpohljjmjs,hzex
fxganstjqhenphoejxschuix ohoejhpgnmjk

Yjrnghzjgohextjhuohuhosxo,hpxhuphoxheurjhontjhoxhjuohenphqnggjshugqhbjo
enphb ghsjuqchaxshoejhjrjgngbk


Feumojsh14

Uphejhsxqjh mhoxhoejhex pjhnghoejheummnjpohasutjhxahtngq,hYjrnghejusq
oejhijyyhsngbhuohoejhpnqjhxahoejhmsngfnmuyhjgosugfjhxahoejhex pjk

“Cjp,hoeuo’phpxtjxgjhasxthoejhsunyzuchpouonxg,”hejhoex beo,h“. pohoej
ontjhoxhijhejsjhasxthoejhTxpfxzhosunghkkkhZexhfx yqhnohij?hZeuohnahno’p
isxoejshGnlxyuc?hEjhqnqhpuc:h‘TucijhN’yyhbxhoxhoejhzuojsp,hxshtucij
N’yyhfxtjhqxzghoxhcx k’”hEjhajyohqnptucjqhugqhrjvjqhaxshoejhanspo
tng oj,hoeuohenphisxoejshGnlxyuc’phmsjpjgfjhpex yqhfxtjhoxhqnpo sihenp
eummchtxxqhxahpmsngbkhI ohejhajyohupeutjqhxahoejhajjyngb,hugqhuohxgfj
ejhxmjgjq,huphnohzjsj,hoejhustphxahenphpx y,hugqhznoehuhpxaojgjq
ajjyngbhxah.xchugqhjvmjfouonxg,hgxzhejhexmjqhznoehuyyhenphejusohoeuohno
zuphenphisxoejskhEjhmsnfljqh mhenphexspj,hugqhsnqngbhx ohasxthijengq
oejhufufnuphejhpuzhuhensjqhoesjj-exspjhpyjqbjhasxthoejhsunyzuchpouonxg,
ugqhuhbjgoyjtughnghuha shfxuokhNohzuphgxohenphisxoejskh“Xe,hnahnohzjsj
xgychpxtjhgnfjhmjspxghxgjhfx yqhouylhoxhuhynooyj!”hejhoex beok

“Ue,”hfsnjqhYjrngh.xca yyc,hayngbngbh mhixoehenpheugqpkh“Ejsj’phu
qjynbeoa yhrnpnoxs!hUe,hexzhbyuqhNhuthoxhpjjhcx !”hejhpex ojq,
sjfxbgndngbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Nhpeuyyhangqhx ohaxshfjsounghzejoejshpej’phtussnjq,hxshzejghpej’p
bxngbhoxhijhtussnjq,”hejhoex beokhUgqhxghoeuohqjynfnx phpmsngbhquchej
ajyohoeuohoejhoex beohxahejshqnqhgxohe sohenthuohuyyk

“Zjyy,hcx hqnqg’ohjvmjfohtj,hje?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbjoongbhx o
xahoejhpyjqbj,hpmyupejqhznoeht qhxghoejhisnqbjhxahenphgxpj,hxghenp
fejjl,hugqhxghenphjcjisxzp,hi ohsuqnugohznoehejuyoehugqhbxxqhpmnsnopk
“N’rjhfxtjhoxhpjjhcx hnghoejhanspohmyufj,”hejhpunq,hjtisufngbhugq
lnppngbhent,h“oxheurjhpxtjhpougq-pexxongbhpjfxgq,hugqhoxhpjyyhoej
axsjpohuohJsb pexrxhoensqk”

“Qjynbeoa y!hZeuohuhpmsngbhzj’sjheurngb!hExzhjrjshqnqhcx hbjohuyxgbhng
uhpyjqbj?”

“Nghuhfusohnohzx yqheurjhijjghzxspjhponyy,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”
ugpzjsjqhoejhqsnrjs,hzexhlgjzhentk

“Zjyy,hN’thrjsc,hrjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hznoehuhbjg ngj
ptnyjhxahfenyqynljhqjynbeok

Yjrnghyjqhenphasnjgqhoxhoejhsxxthpjohumusohaxshrnpnoxsp,hzejsjhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe’phoengbphzjsjhfussnjqhuypx—uhiub,huhb ghnghuhfupj,hu
puofejyhaxshfnbuspkhYjurngbhenthoejsjhoxhzupehugqhfeugbjhenphfyxoejp,
Yjrnghzjgohxaahoxhoejhfx gongbhex pjhoxhpmjulhuix ohoejhmyx bengbhugq
fyxrjskhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,huyzucphrjschugvnx phaxshoejhfsjqnohxahoej
ex pj,htjohenthnghoejheuyyhznoehngw nsnjphuix ohqnggjsk

“Qxh. pohuphcx hynlj,hxgychyjohnohijhuphpxxghuphmxppniyj,”hejhpunq,hugq
zjgohoxhoejhiunynaak

Zejghejhfutjhiufl,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzupejqhugqhfxtijq,hfutjhx ohxa
enphsxxthznoehuhijutngbhptnyj,hugqhoejchzjgoh mpounsphoxbjoejsk

“Zjyy,hNhuthbyuqhNhtugubjqhoxhbjohuzuchoxhcx !hGxzhNhpeuyyh gqjspougq
zeuohoejhtcpojsnx phi pngjpphnphoeuohcx husjhuyzucphuipxsijqhnghejsjk
Gx,hsjuyyc,hNhjgrchcx khZeuohuhex pj,hexzhgnfjhnohuyyhnp!hPxhisnbeo,hpx
fejjsa y!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,haxsbjoongbhoeuohnohzuphgxohuyzucp
pmsngbhugqhangjhzjuoejshynljhoeuohquckh“Ugqhcx shg spjhnphpntmyc
feustngb!hUhmsjoochtunqhnghughumsxghtnbeohijhjrjghtxsjhubsjjuiyj,
mjseump;hi ohaxshcx shpjrjsjhtxguponfhpocyjhnohqxjphrjschzjyyk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxyqhenthtugchngojsjpongbhmnjfjphxahgjzp;
jpmjfnuyychngojsjpongbhoxhYjrnghzuphoejhgjzphoeuohenphisxoejs,hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hzuphngojgqngbhoxhmuchenthuhrnpnohnghoejhp ttjsk

GxohxgjhzxsqhqnqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuchnghsjajsjgfjhoxhLnoochugqhoej
Peofejsiuoplcp;hejhtjsjychburjhenthbsjjongbphasxthenphznajkhYjrnghzup
bsuoja yhoxhenthaxshenphqjynfufchugqhzuphrjschbyuqhxahenphrnpnoxskhUp
uyzucpheummjgjqhznoehenthq sngbhenphpxyno qj,huhtupphxahnqjuphugq
ajjyngbpheuqhijjghuff t yuongbhznoenghent,hzenfehejhfx yqhgxo
fxtt gnfuojhoxhoexpjhuix ohentkhUgqhgxzhejhmx sjqhx oh mxghPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehenphmxjonfh.xchnghoejhpmsngb,hugqhenphauny sjphugqhmyugp
axshoejhyugq,hugqhenphoex beophugqhfsnonfnptphxghoejhixxlphejheuqhijjg
sjuqngb,hugqhoejhnqjuhxahenphxzghixxl,hoejhiupnphxahzenfehsjuyychzup,
oex behejhzuph guzusjhxahnohentpjya,huhfsnonfnpthxahuyyhoejhxyqhixxlp
xghubsnf yo sjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huyzucphfeustngb,h gqjspougqngb
jrjscoengbhuohoejhpynbeojpohsjajsjgfj,hzuphmusonf yusychfeustngbhxg
oenphrnpno,hugqhYjrnghgxonfjqhnghenthuhpmjfnuyhojgqjsgjpp,huphnohzjsj,
ugqhuhgjzhoxgjhxahsjpmjfohoeuohayuoojsjqhentk

OejhjaaxsophxahUbuajuhTneuyxrguhugqhoejhfxxl,hoeuohoejhqnggjshpex yqhij
musonf yusychbxxq,hxgychjgqjqhnghoejhozxhautnpejqhasnjgqphuoouflngbhoej
msjyntnguschfx spj,hjuongbhuhbsjuohqjuyhxahisjuqhugqhi oojs,hpuyohbxxpj
ugqhpuyojqht pesxxtp,hugqhnghYjrng’phanguyychxsqjsngbhoejhpx mhoxhij
pjsrjqhznoex ohoejhuffxtmugntjgohxahynooyjhmnjp,hznoehzenfehoejhfxxl
euqhmusonf yusychtjugohoxhntmsjpphoejnshrnpnoxskhI ohoex behPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehzuphuff poxtjqhoxhrjschqnaajsjgohqnggjsp,hejhoex beo
jrjscoengbhjvfjyyjgo:hoejhejsihisugqc,hugqhoejhisjuq,hugqhoejhi oojs,
ugqhuixrjhuyyhoejhpuyohbxxpjhugqhoejht pesxxtp,hugqhoejhgjooyjhpx m,
ugqhoejhfenfljghnghzenojhpu fj,hugqhoejhzenojhFsntjughzngj—jrjscoengb
zuphp mjsihugqhqjynfnx pk

“Pmyjgqnq,hpmyjgqnq!”hejhpunq,hynbeongbhuhauohfnbushuaojshoejhsxupokh“N
ajjyhuphna,hfxtngbhoxhcx ,hNheuqhyugqjqhxghuhmjufja yhpexsjhuaojshoej
gxnpjhugqh.xyongbhxahuhpojutjskhUgqhpxhcx htungounghoeuohoejhyuixsjs
entpjyahnphughjyjtjgohoxhijhpo qnjqhugqhoxhsjb yuojhoejhfexnfjhxa
tjoexqphnghubsnf yo sjkhXahfx spj,hN’thughnbgxsugohx opnqjs;hi ohN
pex yqhaugfchoejxschugqhnophummynfuonxghznyyheurjhnophngay jgfjhxghoej
yuixsjshoxxk”

“Cjp,hi ohzunohuhinokhN’thgxohouylngbhxahmxynonfuyhjfxgxtc,hN’thouylngb
xahoejhpfnjgfjhxahubsnf yo sjkhNohx beohoxhijhynljhoejhguo suy
pfnjgfjp,hugqhoxhxipjsrjhbnrjghmejgxtjguhugqhoejhyuixsjshnghenp
jfxgxtnf,hjoegxbsumenfuykkkk”

UohoeuohngpougohUbuajuhTneuyxrguhfutjhnghznoeh.utk

“Xe,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hlnppngbhoejhonmphxa
enphmy tmhangbjsp,h“zeuohpuyohbxxpj,hzeuohejsihisugqc!kkkhZeuohqxhcx 
oengl,hnpg’ohnohontjhoxhpouso,hLxpocu?”hejhuqqjqk

Yjrnghyxxljqhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhuohoejhp ghpnglngbhijengqhoejhiusj
osjj-oxmphxahoejhaxsjpok

“Cjp,hno’phontj,”hejhpunqkh“Lx dtu,hbjohsjuqchoejhosum,”hugqhejhsug
qxzgpounspk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbxngbhqxzg,hfusja yychoxxlhoejhfugruphfxrjshxaa
enphrusgnpejqhb ghfupjhznoehenphxzgheugqp,hugqhxmjgngbhno,hijbughoxhbjo
sjuqchenphjvmjgpnrjhgjz-aupenxgjqhb gkhLx dtu,hzexhuysjuqchpfjgojqhu
inbhonm,hgjrjshyjaohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phpnqj,hugqhm ohxghenthixoehenp
poxflngbphugqhixxop,huhouplhzenfehPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjuqnychyjaohentk

“Lxpocu,hbnrjhxsqjsphoeuohnahoejhtjsfeugohScuingnghfxtjphkkkhNhoxyqhent
oxhfxtjhoxquc,hej’phoxhijhisx beohnghugqhoxhzunohaxshtjkkkk”

“Zec,hqxhcx htjughoxhpuchcx ’sjhpjyyngbhoejhaxsjpohoxhScuingng?”

“CjpkhQxhcx hlgxzhent?”

“Oxhijhp sjhNhqxkhNheurjheuqhoxhqxhi pngjpphznoehent,h‘mxpnonrjychugq
fxgfy pnrjyck’”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehyu bejqkh“Mxpnonrjychugqhfxgfy pnrjyc”hzjsjhoej
tjsfeugo’phaurxsnojhzxsqpk

“Cjp,hno’phzxgqjsa yycha ggchoejhzuchejhouylpkhPejhlgxzphzejsjhejs
tupojs’phbxngb!”hejhuqqjq,hmuoongbhYuplu,hzexhe gbhuix ohYjrng,hzengngb
ugqhynflngbhenpheugqp,henphixxop,hugqhenphb gk

Oejhosumhzuphuysjuqchuohoejhpojmphzejghoejchzjgohx ok

“Nhoxyqhoejthoxhisngbhoejhosumhsx gq;hxshzx yqhcx hsuoejshzuyl?”

“Gx,hzj’qhijoojshqsnrj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbjoongbhngoxhoej
osumkhEjhpuohqxzg,ho fljqhoejhonbjs-plnghs bhsx gqhent,hugqhynbeojqhu
fnbuskh“Exzhnphnohcx hqxg’ohptxlj?hUhfnbushnphuhpxsohxahoengb,hgxo
jvufoychuhmyjup sj,hi ohoejhfsxzghugqhx ozusqhpnbghxahmyjup sjkhFxtj,
oenphnphynaj!hExzhpmyjgqnqhnohnp!hOenphnphexzhNhpex yqhynljhoxhynrj!”

“Zec,hzexhmsjrjgophcx ?”hpunqhYjrng,hptnyngbk

“Gx,hcx ’sjhuhy flchtug!hCx ’rjhbxohjrjscoengbhcx hynljkhCx hynlj
exspjp—ugqhcx heurjhoejt;hqxbp—cx heurjhoejt;hpexxongb—cx heurjhno;
austngb—cx heurjhnok”

“Mjseumphijfu pjhNhsj.xnfjhnghzeuohNheurj,hugqhqxg’ohasjohaxshzeuohN
eurjg’o,”hpunqhYjrng,hoenglngbhxahLnoock

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehfxtmsjejgqjq,hyxxljqhuohent,hi ohpunqhgxoengbk

Yjrnghzuphbsuoja yhoxhXiyxgplchaxshgxonfngb,hznoehenphgjrjs-aunyngb
oufo,hoeuohejhqsjuqjqhfxgrjspuonxghuix ohoejhPeofejsiuoplcp,hugqhpx
pucngbhgxoengbhuix ohoejtkhI ohgxzhYjrnghzuphyxgbngbhoxhangqhx ohzeuo
zuphoxstjgongbhenthpx,hcjohejheuqhgxohoejhfx subjhoxhijbngk

“Fxtj,hojyyhtjhexzhoengbphusjhbxngbhznoehcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hijoenglngb
entpjyahoeuohnohzuphgxohgnfjhxahenthoxhoenglhxgychxahentpjyak

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phjcjphpmuslyjqhtjssnyck

“Cx hqxg’ohuqtno,hNhlgxz,hoeuohxgjhfughijhaxgqhxahgjzhsxyyphzejghxgj
eupheuqhxgj’phsuonxgphxahisjuq—oxhcx shtngqhno’phuhfsntj;hi ohNhqxg’o
fx gohynajhuphynajhznoex ohyxrj,”hejhpunq,houlngbhYjrng’phw jponxghenp
xzghzuckh“ZeuohuthNhoxhqx?hN’thtuqjhoeuohzuckhUgqhsjuyyc,hxgjhqxjphpx
ynooyjheusthoxhugcxgj,hugqhbnrjphxgjpjyahpxht fehmyjup sjkkkk”

“Zeuo!hnphoejsjhpxtjoengbhgjz,hoejg?”hw jsnjqhYjrngk

“Cjp,htchixc,hoejsjhnp!hOejsj,hqxhcx hpjj,hcx hlgxzhoejhocmjhxa
Xppnug’phzxtjgkkkkhZxtjg,hp fehuphxgjhpjjphnghqsjutpkkkkhZjyy,hoejpj
zxtjghusjhpxtjontjphoxhijhtjohnghsjuynochkkkhugqhoejpjhzxtjghusj
ojssniyjkhZxtug,hqxg’ohcx hlgxz,hnphp fehuhp i.jfohoeuohexzjrjsht fe
cx hpo qchno,hno’phuyzucphmjsajfoychgjzk”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hnohzx yqhijhijoojshgxohoxhpo qchnok”

“GxkhPxtjhtuoejtuonfnugheuphpunqhoeuohjg.xctjgohynjphnghoejhpjusfehaxs
os oe,hgxohnghoejhangqngbhnok”

Yjrnghynpojgjqhnghpnyjgfj,hugqhnghpmnojhxahuyyhoejhjaaxsophejhtuqj,hej
fx yqhgxohnghoejhyjupohjgojshngoxhoejhajjyngbphxahenphasnjgqhugq
 gqjspougqhenphpjgontjgophugqhoejhfeusthxahpo qcngbhp fehzxtjgk


Feumojsh15

Oejhmyufjhanvjqhxghaxshoejhpougq-pexxongbhzuphgxohaushuixrjhuhposjuthng
uhynooyjhupmjghfxmpjkhXghsjufengbhoejhfxmpj,hYjrnghbxohx ohxahoejhosum
ugqhyjqhXiyxgplchoxhuhfxsgjshxahuhtxppc,hpzutmchbyuqj,huysjuqchw noj
asjjhasxthpgxzkhEjhzjgohiuflhentpjyahoxhuhqx iyjhinsfehosjjhxghoej
xoejshpnqj,hugqhyjugngbhenphb ghxghoejhaxslhxahuhqjuqhyxzjshisugfe,hej
oxxlhxaahenpha yyhxrjsfxuo,haupojgjqhenphijyohubung,hugqhzxsljqhenp
ustphoxhpjjhnahoejchzjsjhasjjk

BsuchxyqhYuplu,hzexheuqhaxyyxzjqhoejt,hpuohqxzghzusnychxmmxpnojhenthugq
msnfljqh mhejshjuspkhOejhp ghzuphpjoongbhijengqhuhoenflhaxsjpo,hugqhng
oejhbyxzhxahp gpjohoejhinsfehosjjp,hqxoojqhuix ohnghoejhupmjghfxmpj,
poxxqhx ohfyjusychznoehoejnsheugbngbhoznbp,hugqhoejnshi qphpzxyyjg
uytxpohoxhi spongbk

Asxthoejhoenfljpohmusophxahoejhfxmpj,hzejsjhoejhpgxzhponyyhsjtungjq,
futjhoejhaungohpx gqhxahgussxzhzngqngbhoesjuqphxahzuojshs ggngbhuzuck
Ongchinsqphoznoojsjq,hugqhgxzhugqhoejghay oojsjqhasxthosjjhoxhosjjk

Nghoejhmu pjphxahfxtmyjojhponyygjpphoejsjhfutjhoejhs poyjhxahyupo
cjus’phyjurjp,hponssjqhichoejhoeuzngbhxahoejhjusoehugqhoejhbsxzoehxa
oejhbsuppk

“Ntubngj!hXgjhfughejushugqhpjjhoejhbsupphbsxzngb!”hYjrnghpunqhox
entpjya,hgxonfngbhuhzjo,hpyuoj-fxyxsjqhupmjghyjuahtxrngbhijpnqjhuhiyuqj
xahcx gbhbsuppkhEjhpoxxq,hynpojgjq,hugqhbudjqhpxtjontjphqxzghuohoejhzjo
txppchbsx gq,hpxtjontjphuohYupluhynpojgngbhuyyhuyjso,hpxtjontjphuohoej
pjuhxahiusjhosjjhoxmphoeuohposjofejqhxghoejhpyxmjhijyxzhent,hpxtjontjp
uohoejhqusljgngbhplc,hfxrjsjqhznoehzenojhposjulphxahfyx qk

Uheuzlhayjzhenbehxrjshuhaxsjpohaushuzuchznoehpyxzhpzjjmhxahnophzngbp;
ugxoejshayjzhznoehjvufoychoejhputjhtxonxghnghoejhputjhqnsjfonxghugq
rugnpejqkhOejhinsqphoznoojsjqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhyx qychugqhi pnychnghoej
oenfljokhUghxzyhexxojqhgxohaushxaa,hugqhYuplu,hpousongb,hpojmmjq
fu onx pychuhajzhpojmphaxszusq,hugqhm oongbhejshejuqhxghxgjhpnqj,hijbug
oxhynpojghngojgoyckhIjcxgqhoejhposjuthzuphejusqhoejhf flxxkhOznfjhpej
 oojsjqhejsh p uyhf flxxhfuyy,hugqhoejghburjhuhexuspj,he ssnjqhfuyyhugq
isxljhqxzgk

“Ntubngj!hoejhf flxxhuysjuqc!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hfxtngbhx o
asxthijengqhuhi pek

“Cjp,hNhejushno,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hsjy fougoychisjulngbhoejhponyygjpp
znoehenphrxnfj,hzenfehpx gqjqhqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhentpjyakh“Gxzhno’p
fxtngb!”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phanb sjhubunghzjgohijengqhoejhi pe,hugqhYjrnghpuz
gxoengbhi ohoejhisnbeohayupehxahuhtuofe,haxyyxzjqhichoejhsjqhbyxzhugq
iy jhptxljhxahuhfnbusjoojk

“Ofel!hofel!”hfutjhoejhpgummngbhpx gqhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofehfxflngb
enphb gk

“Zeuo’phoeuohfsc?”hupljqhXiyxgplc,hqsuzngbhYjrng’phuoojgonxghoxhu
msxyxgbjqhfsc,huphoex behuhfxyohzjsjhzenggcngbhnghuhenbehrxnfj,hng
myuck

“Xe,hqxg’ohcx hlgxzhno?hOeuo’phoejheusjkhI ohjgx behouylngb!hYnpojg,
no’phaycngb!”huytxpohpesnjljqhYjrng,hfxflngbhenphb gk

Oejchejusqhuhpesnyyhzenpoyjhnghoejhqnpougfj,hugqhnghoejhjvufohontj,hpx
zjyyhlgxzghoxhoejhpmxsoptug,hozxhpjfxgqphyuojs—ugxoejs,huhoensq,hugq
uaojshoejhoensqhzenpoyjhoejhexuspj,hb oo suyhfschfx yqhijhejusqk

Yjrnghyxxljqhuix ohenthoxhsnbeohugqhoxhyjao,hugqhoejsj,h. pohaufngbhent
ubungpohoejhq plchiy jhplchuixrjhoejhfxga pjqhtupphxahojgqjshpexxophxa
oejhupmjgp,hejhpuzhoejhaycngbhinsqkhNohzuphaycngbhposunbeohoxzusqphent;
oejhb oo suyhfsc,hynljhoejhjrjghojusngbhxahpxtjhposxgbhpo aa,hpx gqjq
fyxpjhoxhenphjus;hoejhyxgbhijulhugqhgjflhxahoejhinsqhfx yqhijhpjjg,hugq
uohoejhrjschngpougohzejghYjrnghzuphoulngbhunt,hijengqhoejhi pehzejsj
Xiyxgplchpoxxq,hoejsjhzuphuhayupehxahsjqhynbeogngb:hoejhinsqhqsxmmjq
ynljhughussxz,hugqhqusojqh mzusqphubungkhUbunghfutjhoejhsjqhayupehugq
oejhpx gqhxahuhiyxz,hugqhay oojsngbhnophzngbphuphoex behoscngbhoxhljjm
 mhnghoejhuns,hoejhinsqheuyojq,hpoxmmjqhponyyhughngpougo,hugqhajyyhznoe
uhejurchpmyupehxghoejhpy pechbsx gqk

“FughNheurjhtnppjqhno?”hpex ojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhfx yqhgxohpjj
axshoejhptxljk

“Ejsjhnohnp!”hpunqhYjrng,hmxngongbhoxhYuplu,hzexhznoehxgjhjushsunpjq,
zubbngbhoejhjgqhxahejshpeubbchouny,hfutjhpyxzychiuflhuphoex behpej
zx yqhmsxyxgbhoejhmyjup sj,hugqhuphnohzjsjhptnyngb,hisx beohoejhqjuq
insqhoxhejshtupojskh“Zjyy,hN’thbyuqhcx hzjsjhp ffjppa y,”hpunqhYjrng,
zex,huohoejhputjhontj,heuqhuhpjgpjhxahjgrchoeuohejheuqhgxohp ffjjqjqhng
pexxongbhoejhpgnmjk

“Nohzuphuhiuqhpexohasxthoejhsnbeohiussjy,”hsjpmxgqjqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hyxuqngbhenphb gkh“Pekkkhno’phaycngb!”

OejhpesnyyhzenpoyjphsumnqychaxyyxzngbhxgjhugxoejshzjsjhejusqhubungkhOzx
pgnmj,hmyucngbhugqhfeupngbhxgjhugxoejs,hugqhxgychzenpoyngb,hgxohfscngb,
ayjzhposunbeohuohoejhrjschejuqphxahoejhpmxsoptjgkhOejsjhzuphoejhsjmxso
xahax shpexop,hugqhynljhpzuyyxzphoejhpgnmjho sgjqhpznaohpxtjspu yophng
oejhunshugqhrugnpejqhasxthpnbeok



Oejhpougq-pexxongbhzuphfumnouykhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpexohozxhtxsjhinsqp
ugqhYjrnghozx,hxahzenfehxgjhzuphgxohax gqkhNohijbughoxhbjohquslkhRjg p,
isnbeohugqhpnyrjsc,hpexgjhznoehejshpxaohynbeohyxzhqxzghnghoejhzjpo
ijengqhoejhinsfehosjjp,hugqhenbeh mhnghoejhjupohoznglyjqhoejhsjqhynbeop
xahUsfo s pkhXrjshenphejuqhYjrnghtuqjhx ohoejhpousphxahoejhBsjuohIjus
ugqhyxpohoejthubungkhOejhpgnmjheuqhfjupjqhaycngb;hi ohYjrnghsjpxyrjqhox
pouchuhynooyjhyxgbjs,honyyhRjg p,hzenfehejhpuzhijyxzhuhisugfehxahinsfe,
pex yqhijhuixrjhno,hugqhoejhpousphxahoejhBsjuohIjushpex yqhijhmjsajfoyc
myungkhRjg pheuqhsnpjghuixrjhoejhisugfe,hugqhoejhjushxahoejhBsjuohIjus
znoehnophpeuaohzuphgxzhuyyhmyungychrnpniyjhubungpohoejhquslhiy jhplc,
cjohponyyhejhzunojqk

“Npg’ohnohontjhoxhbxhextj?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

Nohzuphw nojhponyyhgxzhnghoejhfxmpj,hugqhgxohuhinsqhzuphponssngbk

“Yjo’phpouchuhynooyjhzenyj,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk

“Uphcx hynljk”

Oejchzjsjhpougqngbhgxzhuix ohanaojjghmufjphasxthxgjhugxoejsk

“Ponru!”hpunqhYjrngh gjvmjfojqyc;h“exzhnphnohcx hqxg’ohojyyhtjhzejoejs
cx shpnpojs-ng-yuz’phtussnjqhcjo,hxshzejghpej’phbxngbhoxhij?”

Yjrnghajyohpxhsjpxy ojhugqhpjsjgjhoeuohgxhugpzjs,hejhaugfnjq,hfx yq
uaajfohentkhI ohejheuqhgjrjshqsjutjqhxahzeuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
sjmynjqk

“Pej’phgjrjshoex beohxahijngbhtussnjq,hugqhnpg’ohoenglngbhxahno;hi o
pej’phrjschnyy,hugqhoejhqxfoxspheurjhpjgohejshuisxuqkhOejc’sj
mxpnonrjychuasunqhpejhtuchgxohynrjk”

“Zeuo!”hfsnjqhYjrngkh“Rjschnyy?hZeuohnphzsxgbhznoehejs?hExzheup
pejkkk?”

Zenyjhoejchzjsjhpucngbhoenp,hYuplu,hznoehjusphmsnfljqh m,hzuphyxxlngb
 mzusqphuohoejhplc,hugqhsjmsxufea yychuohoejtk

“Oejcheurjhfexpjghuhontjhoxhouyl,”hpejhzuphoenglngbkh“No’phxghoej
zngbkkkkhEjsjhnohnp,hcjp,hnohnpkhOejc’yyhtnpphno,”hoex beohYupluk

I ohuohoeuohrjschngpougohixoehp qqjgychejusqhuhpesnyyhzenpoyjhzenfe,hup
nohzjsj,hptxojhxghoejnshjusp,hugqhixoehp qqjgychpjndjqhoejnshb gphugq
ozxhayupejphbyjutjq,hugqhozxhiugbphpx gqjqhuohoejhrjschputjhngpougok
Oejhpgnmjhaycngbhenbehuixrjhngpougoychaxyqjqhnophzngbphugqhajyyhngoxhu
oenfljo,hijgqngbhqxzghoejhqjynfuojhpexxopk

“Pmyjgqnq!hOxbjoejs!”hfsnjqhYjrng,hugqhejhsughznoehYupluhngoxhoej
oenfljohoxhyxxlhaxshoejhpgnmjk

“Xe,hcjp,hzeuohzuphnohoeuohzuph gmyjupugo?”hejhzxgqjsjqkh“Cjp,hLnooc’p
nyykkkkhZjyy,hnohfug’ohijhejymjq;hN’thrjschpxssc,”hejhoex beok

“Pej’phax gqhno!hNpg’ohpejhuhfyjrjshoengb?”hejhpunq,houlngbhoejhzust
insqhasxthYuplu’phtx oehugqhmuflngbhnohngoxhoejhuytxpoha yyhbutjhiubk
“N’rjhbxohno,hPonru!”hejhpex ojqk


Feumojsh16

XghoejhzuchextjhYjrnghupljqhuyyhqjounyphxahLnooc’phnyygjpphugqhoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hmyugp,hugqhoex behejhzx yqheurjhijjghupeutjqhoxhuqtno
no,hejhzuphmyjupjqhuohzeuohejhejusqkhEjhzuphmyjupjqhoeuohoejsjhzup
ponyyhexmj,hugqhponyyhtxsjhmyjupjqhoeuohpejhpex yqhijhp aajsngbhzexheuq
tuqjhenthp aajshpxht fekhI ohzejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofehijbughoxhpmjulhxa
oejhfu pjphxahLnooc’phnyygjpp,hugqhtjgonxgjqhRsxgplc’phgutj,hYjrnghf o
enthpexsok

“Nheurjhgxhsnbeohzeuojrjshoxhlgxzhautnychtuoojsp,hugq,hoxhojyyhoej
os oe,hgxhngojsjpohnghoejthjnoejsk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqheusqychmjsfjmoniyc,hfuofengbhoej
ngpougougjx phfeugbjhejhlgjzhpxhzjyyhnghYjrng’phaufj,hzenfeheuqhijfxtj
uphbyxxtchuphnoheuqhijjghisnbeohuhtng ojhijaxsjk

“Eurjhcx hw nojhpjooyjqhuix ohoejhaxsjpohznoehScuingng?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Cjp,hno’phpjooyjqkhOejhmsnfjhnphtubgnanfjgo;hoensoc-jnbeohoex pugqk
Jnbeohposunbeohuzuc,hugqhoejhsjpohnghpnvhcjuspkhN’rjhijjghixoejsngb
uix ohnohaxshjrjshpxhyxgbkhGxhxgjhzx yqhbnrjhtxsjk”

“Oejghcx ’rjhuphbxxqhuphbnrjghuzuchcx shaxsjpohaxshgxoengb,”hpunqhYjrng
byxxtnyck

“Exzhqxhcx htjughaxshgxoengb?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehu
bxxq-e txsjqhptnyj,hlgxzngbhoeuohgxoengbhzx yqhijhsnbeohnghYjrng’phjcjp
gxzk

“Ijfu pjhoejhaxsjpohnphzxsoehuohyjupohuhe gqsjqhugqhanaochsx iyjphoej
ufsj,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk

“Xe,hoejpjhaustjsp!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehmyuca yyckh“Cx shoxgjhxa
fxgojtmohaxsh phmxxshoxzgpaxyl!kkkhI ohzejghnohfxtjphoxhi pngjpp,hzjhqx
nohijoojshoeughugcxgjkhNhupp sjhcx hNheurjhsjflxgjqhnohuyyhx o,”hej
punq,h“ugqhoejhaxsjpohnphajofengbhuhrjschbxxqhmsnfj—pxht fehpxhoeuohN’t
uasunqhxahoenphajyyxz’phfscngbhxaa,hnghaufokhCx hlgxzhno’phgxo
‘ontijs,’”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hexmngbhichoenphqnpongfonxghox
fxgrngfjhYjrnghfxtmyjojychxahoejh gaunsgjpphxahenphqx iopkh“Ugqhno
zxg’ohs ghoxhtxsjhoeughozjgoc-anrjhcusqphxahaubxophmjshufsj,hugqhej’p
bnrngbhtjhuohoejhsuojhxahpjrjgochsx iyjphoejhufsjk”

Yjrnghptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pyckh“Nhlgxz,”hejhoex beo,h“oeuohaupenxghgxo
xgychnghent,hi ohnghuyyhfnochmjxmyj,hzex,huaojshijngbhoznfjhnghojg
cjusphnghoejhfx gosc,hmnflh mhozxhxshoesjjhmesupjphugqh pjhoejthng
pjupxghugqhx ohxahpjupxg,hanstychmjsp uqjqhoeuohoejchlgxzhuyyhuix ohnok
‘_Ontijs,hs ghoxhpxhtugchcusqphoejhufsjk_’hEjhpucphoexpjhzxsqphznoex o
 gqjspougqngbhoejthentpjyak”

“Nhzx yqg’ohuoojtmohoxhojufehcx hzeuohcx hzsnojhuix ohnghcx shxaanfj,”
punqhej,h“ugqhnahgjjqhusxpj,hNhpex yqhfxtjhoxhcx hoxhuplhuix ohnokhI o
cx ’sjhpxhmxpnonrjhcx hlgxzhuyyhoejhyxsjhxahoejhaxsjpokhNo’phqnaanf yok
Eurjhcx hfx gojqhoejhosjjp?”

“Exzhfx gohoejhosjjp?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyu bengb,hponyyhoscngb
oxhqsuzhenphasnjgqhx ohxahenphnyy-ojtmjskh“Fx gohoejhpugqphxahoejhpju,
g tijshoejhpouspkhPxtjhenbejshmxzjshtnbeohqxhnok”

“Xe,hzjyy,hoejhenbejshmxzjshxahScuingnghfugkhGxohuhpngbyjhtjsfeugohjrjs
i cphuhaxsjpohznoex ohfx gongbhoejhosjjp,h gyjpphoejchbjohnohbnrjghoejt
axshgxoengb,huphcx ’sjhqxngbhgxzkhNhlgxzhcx shaxsjpokhNhbxhoejsjhjrjsc
cjushpexxongb,hugqhcx shaxsjpo’phzxsoehuhe gqsjqhugqhanaochsx iyjphug
ufsjhmunqhqxzg,hzenyjhej’phbnrngbhcx hpnvochichngpouyytjgopkhPxhoeuohng
aufohcx ’sjhtulngbhenthuhmsjpjgohxahoensochoex pugqk”

“Fxtj,hqxg’ohyjohcx shntubnguonxghs ghuzuchznoehcx ,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehmnojx pyckh“Zechzuphnohgxgjhzx yqhbnrjhno,hoejg?”

“Zec,hijfu pjhejheuphugh gqjspougqngbhznoehoejhtjsfeugop;hej’phix beo
oejthxaakhN’rjheuqhoxhqxhznoehuyyhxahoejt;hNhlgxzhoejtkhOejc’sjhgxo
tjsfeugop,hcx hlgxz:hoejc’sjhpmjf yuoxspkhEjhzx yqg’ohyxxlhuohuhiusbung
oeuohburjhenthojg,hanaojjghmjshfjgohmsxano,hi ohexyqphiuflhoxhi chu
sx iyj’phzxsoehaxshozjgochlxmjflpk”

“Zjyy,hjgx behxahno!hCx ’sjhx ohxahojtmjsk”

“Gxohoejhyjupo,”hpunqhYjrnghbyxxtnyc,huphoejchqsxrjh mhoxhoejhex pjk

Uohoejhpojmphoejsjhpoxxqhuhosumhonbeoychfxrjsjqhznoehnsxghugqhyjuoejs,
znoehuhpyjjlhexspjhonbeoycheusgjppjqhznoehisxuqhfxyyus-posumpkhNghoej
osumhpuohoejhfe iic,honbeoychijyojqhfyjslhzexhpjsrjqhScuingnghup
fxufetugkhScuingnghentpjyahzuphuysjuqchnghoejhex pj,hugqhtjohoej
asnjgqphnghoejheuyykhScuingnghzuphuhouyy,hoenggnpe,htnqqyj-ubjqhtug,
znoeht poufejhugqhuhmsx.jfongbhfyjug-peurjghfeng,hugqhmsxtngjgo
t qqc-yxxlngbhjcjpkhEjhzuphqsjppjqhnghuhyxgb-plnsojqhiy jhfxuo,hznoe
i ooxgphijyxzhoejhzunpohuohoejhiufl,hugqhzxsjhenbehixxophzsnglyjqhxrjs
oejhuglyjphugqhposunbeohxrjshoejhfuya,hznoehinbhbuyxpejphqsuzghxrjs
oejtkhEjhs iijqhenphaufjhznoehenpheugqljsfenja,hugqhzsummngbhsx gqhent
enphfxuo,hzenfehpuohjvosjtjychzjyyhuphnohzup,hejhbsjjojqhoejthznoehu
ptnyj,hexyqngbhx ohenpheugqhoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphoex behejhzugojq
oxhfuofehpxtjoengbk

“Pxhejsjhcx husj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbnrngbhenthenpheugqk
“Oeuo’phfumnouyk”

“Nhqnqhgxohrjgo sjhoxhqnpsjbusqhcx shjvfjyyjgfc’phfxttugqp,hoex behoej
sxuqhzuphjvosjtjychiuqkhNhmxpnonrjychzuyljqhoejhzexyjhzuc,hi ohNhut
ejsjhuohtchontjkhLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,htchsjpmjfop”;hejho sgjqhox
Yjrng,hoscngbhoxhpjndjhenpheugqhoxxkhI ohYjrng,hpfxzyngb,htuqjhup
oex behejhqnqhgxohgxonfjhenpheugq,hugqhoxxlhx ohoejhpgnmjkh“Cx shexgxsp
eurjhijjghqnrjsongbhcx spjyrjphznoehoejhfeupj?hZeuohlngqhxahinsqhtuchno
ij,hmsuc?”huqqjqhScuingng,hyxxlngbhfxgojtmo x pychuohoejhpgnmj:h“u
bsjuohqjynfufc,hNhp mmxpjk”hUgqhejhpexxlhenphejuqhqnpummsxrngbyc,hup
oex behejheuqhbsurjhqx iophzejoejshoenphbutjhzjsjhzxsoehoejhfugqyjk

“Zx yqhcx hynljhoxhbxhngoxhtchpo qc?”hYjrnghpunqhnghAsjgfehoxhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hpfxzyngbhtxsxpjyckh“Bxhngoxhtchpo qc;hcx hfughouyl
oejsjk”

“W nojhpx,hzejsjhcx hmyjupj,”hpunqhScuingnghznoehfxgojtmo x phqnbgnoc,
uphoex behznpengbhoxhtuljhnohajyohoeuohxoejsphtnbeohijhnghqnaanf yonjp
uphoxhexzhoxhijeurj,hi ohoeuohejhfx yqhgjrjshijhnghugchqnaanf yochuix o
ugcoengbk

Xghjgojsngbhoejhpo qchScuingnghyxxljqhuix o,huphenpheuinohzup,hup
oex behpjjlngbhoejhexychmnfo sj,hi ohzejghejheuqhax gqhno,hejhqnqhgxo
fsxpphentpjyakhEjhpfuggjqhoejhixxlfupjphugqhixxlpejyrjp,hugqhznoehoej
putjhq inx phunshznoehzenfehejheuqhsjbusqjqhoejhpgnmj,hejhptnyjq
fxgojtmo x pychugqhpexxlhenphejuqhqnpummsxrngbyc,huphoex behichgxhtjugp
znyyngbhoxhuyyxzhoeuohoenphbutjhzjsjhzxsoehoejhfugqyjk

“Zjyy,heurjhcx hisx beohoejhtxgjc?”hupljqhXiyxgplckh“Pnohqxzgk”

“Xe,hqxg’ohosx iyjhuix ohoejhtxgjckhN’rjhfxtjhoxhpjjhcx hoxhouylhno
xrjsk”

“Zeuohnphoejsjhoxhouylhxrjs?hI ohqxhpnohqxzgk”

“Nhqxg’ohtngqhnahNhqx,”hpunqhScuingng,hpnoongbhqxzghugqhyjugngbhenp
jyixzphxghoejhiuflhxahenphfeunshnghuhmxpnonxghxahoejhngojgpjpo
qnpfxtaxsohoxhentpjyakh“Cx ht pohlgxflhnohqxzghuhino,hmsngfjkhNohzx yq
ijhoxxhiuqkhOejhtxgjchnphsjuqchfxgfy pnrjychoxhoejhyupohausoengbkhUphox
mucngbhoejhtxgjchqxzg,hoejsj’yyhijhgxhenofehoejsjk”

Yjrng,hzexheuqhtjugzenyjhijjghm oongbhenphb ghuzuchnghoejhf mixusq,hzup
. pohbxngbhx ohxahoejhqxxs,hi ohfuofengbhoejhtjsfeugo’phzxsqp,hej
poxmmjqk

“Zec,hcx ’rjhbxohoejhaxsjpohaxshgxoengbhuphnohnp,”hejhpunqkh“Ejhfutjhox
tjhoxxhyuoj,hxshN’qheurjhanvjqhoejhmsnfjhaxshentk”

Scuingnghbxoh m,hugqhnghpnyjgfj,hznoehuhptnyj,hejhyxxljqhYjrnghqxzghugq
 mk

“Rjschfyxpjhuix ohtxgjchnphLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hejhpunqhznoehu
ptnyj,ho sgngbhoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe;h“oejsj’phmxpnonrjychgxhqjuyngb
znoehentkhNhzuphiusbungngbhaxshpxtjhzejuohxahent,hugqhuhmsjoochmsnfjhN
xaajsjqhoxxk”

“Zechpex yqhNhbnrjhcx htchbxxqphaxshgxoengb?hNhqnqg’ohmnflhnoh mhxghoej
bsx gq,hgxshpojuyhnohjnoejsk”

“Tjsfchxgh p!hgxzuqucphoejsj’phgxhfeugfjhuohuyyhxahpojuyngbkhZnoehoej
xmjghfx sophugqhjrjscoengbhqxgjhnghpocyj,hgxzuqucphoejsj’phgxhw jponxg
xahpojuyngbkhZjhusjh. pohouylngbhoengbphxrjshynljhbjgoyjtjgkhEnp
jvfjyyjgfc’phuplngbhoxxht fehaxshoejhaxsjpokhNhfug’ohtuljhixoehjgqp
tjjohxrjshnokhNht pohuplhaxshuhynooyjhfxgfjppnxgk”

“I ohnphoejhoengbhpjooyjqhijozjjghcx hxshgxo?hNahno’phpjooyjq,hno’p
 pjyjppheubbyngb;hi ohnahno’phgxo,”hpunqhYjrng,h“N’yyhi choejhaxsjpok”

OejhptnyjhrugnpejqhuohxgfjhasxthScuingng’phaufjkhUheuzlynlj,hbsjjqc,
fs jyhjvmsjppnxghzuphyjaoh mxghnokhZnoehsumnq,hixgchangbjsphej
 gi ooxgjqhenphfxuo,hsjrjuyngbhuhpenso,hisxgdjhzunpofxuohi ooxgp,hugqhu
zuofehfeung,hugqhw nflychm yyjqhx ohuhauohxyqhmxfljoixxlk

“Ejsjhcx husj,hoejhaxsjpohnphtngj,”hejhpunq,hfsxppngbhentpjyahw nflyc,
ugqhexyqngbhx ohenpheugqkh“Ouljhoejhtxgjc;hno’phtchaxsjpokhOeuo’p
Scuingng’phzuchxahqxngbhi pngjpp;hejhqxjpg’oheubbyjhxrjshjrjsc
euya-mjggc,”hejhuqqjq,hpfxzyngbhugqhzurngbhoejhmxfljoixxlk

“Nhzx yqg’ohijhnghuhe sschnahNhzjsjhcx ,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Fxtj,hsjuyyc,”hpunqhXiyxgplchnghp smsnpjkh“N’rjhbnrjghtchzxsq,hcx 
lgxzk”

Yjrnghzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxt,hpyuttngbhoejhqxxskhScuingnghyxxljqhoxzusqp
oejhqxxshugqhpexxlhenphejuqhznoehuhptnyjk

“No’phuyyhcx oea ygjpp—mxpnonrjychgxoengbhi ohixcnpegjppkhZec,hN’t
i cngbhno,h mxghtchexgxs,hpntmyc,hijynjrjhtj,haxshoejhbyxschxahno,hoeuo
Scuingng,hugqhgxhxgjhjypj,hpex yqheurjhix beohoejhfxmpjhxahXiyxgplck
Ugqhuphoxhoejhmsxanop,hzec,hNht pohtuljhzeuohBxqhbnrjpkhNghBxq’phgutjk
Nahcx hzx yqhlngqychpnbghoejhonoyj-qjjqkkkk”

Znoenghughex shoejhtjsfeugo,hposxlngbhenphinbhxrjsfxuohgjuoychqxzg,hugq
exxlngbh mhenph.ufljo,hznoehoejhubsjjtjgohnghenphmxfljo,hpjuojqhentpjya
nghenphonbeoychfxrjsjqhosum,hugqhqsxrjhextjzusqpk

“ be,hoejpjhbjgoyjaxylp!”hejhpunqhoxhoejhfyjslkh“Oejc—oejc’sjhuhgnfj
yxo!”

“Oeuo’phpx,”hsjpmxgqjqhoejhfyjsl,heugqngbhenthoejhsjngphugqhi ooxgngb
oejhyjuoejshumsxgkh“I ohNhfughfxgbsuo yuojhcx hxghoejhm sfeupj,hTneuny
Nbguonofe?”

“Zjyy,hzjyykkkk”


Feumojsh17

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgoh mpounsphznoehenphmxfljohi ybngbhznoehgxojp,
zenfehoejhtjsfeugoheuqhmunqhenthaxshoesjjhtxgoephnghuqrugfjkhOej
i pngjpphxahoejhaxsjpohzuphxrjs,hoejhtxgjchnghenphmxfljo;hoejns
pexxongbheuqhijjghjvfjyyjgo,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphnghoej
eummnjpohasutjhxahtngq,hugqhpxhejhajyohpmjfnuyychugvnx phoxhqnppnmuoj
oejhnyy-e txshoeuoheuqhfxtjh mxghYjrngkhEjhzugojqhoxhangnpehoejhquchuo
p mmjshuphmyjupugoychuphnoheuqhijjghijb gk

Yjrnghfjsoungychzuphx ohxahe txs,hugqhnghpmnojhxahuyyhenphqjpnsjhoxhij
uaajfonxguojhugqhfxsqnuyhoxhenphfeustngbhrnpnoxs,hejhfx yqhgxohfxgosxy
enphtxxqkhOejhngoxvnfuonxghxahoejhgjzphoeuohLnoochzuphgxohtussnjqheuq
bsuq uyychijb ghoxhzxslh mxghentk

Lnoochzuphgxohtussnjq,hi ohnyy,hugqhnyyhasxthyxrjhaxshuhtughzexheuq
pynbeojqhejskhOenphpynbeo,huphnohzjsj,hsjix gqjqh mxghentkhRsxgplcheuq
pynbeojqhejs,hugqhpejheuqhpynbeojqhent,hYjrngkhFxgpjw jgoychRsxgplcheuq
oejhsnbeohoxhqjpmnpjhYjrng,hugqhoejsjaxsjhejhzuphenphjgjtckhI ohuyy
oenphYjrnghqnqhgxohoenglhx okhEjhrub jychajyohoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengb
nghnohngp yongbhoxhent,hugqhejhzuphgxohugbschgxzhuohzeuoheuqhqnpo sijq
ent,hi ohejhajyyhax yhxahjrjscoengbhoeuohmsjpjgojqhnopjyakhOejhpo mnq
puyjhxahoejhaxsjpo,hoejhasu qhmsufonfjqh mxghXiyxgplchugqhfxgfy qjqhng
enphex pj,hjvupmjsuojqhentk

“Zjyy,hangnpejq?”hejhpunq,htjjongbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofeh mpounspkh“Zx yq
cx hynljhp mmjs?”

“Zjyy,hNhzx yqg’ohpuchgxhoxhnokhZeuohughummjonojhNhbjohnghoejhfx gosc!
Zxgqjsa y!hZechqnqg’ohcx hxaajshScuingnghpxtjoengb?”

“Xe,hqutghent!”

“Ponyy,hexzhcx hqxhosjuohent!”hpunqhXiyxgplckh“Cx hqnqg’ohjrjghpeulj
eugqphznoehentkhZechgxohpeuljheugqphznoehent?”

“Ijfu pjhNhqxg’ohpeuljheugqphznoehuhzunojs,hugqhuhzunojs’phuhe gqsjq
ontjphijoojshoeughejhnpk”

“Zeuohuhsjufonxgnpohcx husj,hsjuyyc!hZeuohuix ohoejhutuybutuonxghxa
fyuppjp?”hpunqhXiyxgplck

“Ugcxgjhzexhynljphutuybutuongbhnphzjyfxtjhoxhno,hi ohnohpnfljgphtjk”

“Cx ’sjhuhsjb yushsjufonxgnpo,hNhpjjk”

“Sjuyyc,hNheurjhgjrjshfxgpnqjsjqhzeuohNhutkhNhuthLxgpougonghYjrng,hugq
gxoengbhjypjk”

“UgqhLxgpougonghYjrnghrjscht fehx ohxahojtmjs,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbk

“Cjp,hNhuthx ohxahojtmjs,hugqhqxhcx hlgxzhzec?hIjfu pj—jvf pjhtj—xa
cx shpo mnqhpuyjkkkk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehasxzgjqhbxxq-e txsjqyc,hynljhxgjhzexhajjyphentpjya
ojupjqhugqhuooufljqhaxshgxhau yohxahenphxzgk

“Fxtj,hjgx behuix ohno!”hejhpunqkh“Zejghqnqhugcixqchjrjshpjyyhugcoengb
znoex ohijngbhoxyqhnttjqnuojychuaojshoejhpuyj,h‘Nohzuphzxsoeht fe
txsj’?hI ohzejghxgjhzugophoxhpjyy,hgxhxgjhznyyhbnrjhugcoengbkkkkhGx,hN
pjjhcx ’rjhuhbs qbjhubungpohoeuoh gy flchScuingngk”

“TucijhNheurjkhUgqhqxhcx hlgxzhzec?hCx ’yyhpuchubunghoeuohN’thu
sjufonxgnpo,hxshpxtjhxoejshojssniyjhzxsq;hi ohuyyhoejhputjhnohqxjp
uggxchugqhugbjshtjhoxhpjjhxghuyyhpnqjphoejhntmxrjsnpengbhxahoej
gxinynochoxhzenfehNhijyxgb,hugq,hnghpmnojhxahoejhutuybutuonxghxa
fyuppjp,hN’thbyuqhoxhijyxgbkhUgqhoejnshntmxrjsnpetjgohnphgxohq jhox
jvosurubugfj—oeuohzx yqhijhgxoengb;hynrngbhnghbxxqhpocyj—oeuo’phoej
msxmjshoengbhaxshgxiyjtjg;hno’phxgychoejhgxiyjphzexhlgxzhexzhoxhqxhnok
Gxzhoejhmjupugophuix oh phi chyugq,hugqhNhqxg’ohtngqhoeuokhOej
bjgoyjtughqxjphgxoengb,hzenyjhoejhmjupugohzxslphugqhp mmyugophoejhnqyj
tugkhOeuo’phuphnohx beohoxhijkhUgqhN’thrjschbyuqhaxshoejhmjupugokhI ohN
qxhtngqhpjjngbhoejhmsxfjpphxahntmxrjsnpetjgohasxthuhpxsohxa—Nhqxg’o
lgxzhzeuohoxhfuyyhno—nggxfjgfjkhEjsjhuhMxynpehpmjf yuoxshix beohaxs
euyahnophruy jhuhtubgnanfjgohjpouojhasxthuhcx gbhyuqchzexhynrjphng
GnfjkhUgqhoejsjhuhtjsfeugohznyyhbjohoesjjhufsjphxahyugq,hzxsoehojg
sx iyjp,huphpjf snochaxshoejhyxughxahxgjhsx iyjkhEjsj,haxshgxhlngqhxa
sjupxg,hcx ’rjhtuqjhoeuohsupfuyhuhmsjpjgohxahoensochoex pugqhsx iyjpk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohpex yqhNheurjhqxgj?hFx gojqhjrjschosjj?”

“Xahfx spj,hoejcht pohijhfx gojqkhCx hqnqg’ohfx gohoejt,hi ohScuingng
qnqkhScuingng’phfenyqsjghznyyheurjhtjugphxahynrjynexxqhugqhjq fuonxg,
zenyjhcx sphtucijhznyyhgxo!”

“Zjyy,hcx ht pohjvf pjhtj,hi ohoejsj’phpxtjoengbhtjughnghoenphfx gongbk
Zjheurjhx shi pngjpphugqhoejcheurjhoejnsp,hugqhoejcht pohtuljhoejns
msxanokhUgczuc,hoejhoengb’phqxgj,hugqhoejsj’phughjgqhxahnokhUgqhejsj
fxtjhpxtjhmxufejqhjbbp,htchaurxsnojhqnpekhUgqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguhznyy
bnrjh phoeuohtusrjyx phejsi-isugqckkkk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyjhugqhijbugh.xlngbhznoehUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu,hupp sngbhejshoeuohnohzuphyxgbhpngfjhejheuqhoupojqhp fehu
qnggjshugqhp fehuhp mmjsk

“Zjyy,hcx hqxhmsunpjhno,hugczuc,”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,h“i o
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,hbnrjhenthzeuohcx hznyy—uhfs pohxahisjuq—ej’yy
juohnohugqhzuylhuzuck”

Oex behYjrnghosnjqhoxhfxgosxyhentpjya,hejhzuphbyxxtchugqhpnyjgokhEj
zugojqhoxhm ohxgjhw jponxghoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hi ohejhfx yqhgxo
isngbhentpjyahoxhoejhmxngo,hugqhfx yqhgxohangqhoejhzxsqphxshoejhtxtjgo
nghzenfehoxhm ohnokhPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhbxgjhqxzghoxhenphsxxt,
 gqsjppjq,hubunghzupejq,hugqhuoonsjqhnghuhgnbeopensohznoehbxaajsjq
asnyyp,hejheuqhbxohngoxhijq,hi ohYjrnghponyyhyngbjsjqhnghenphsxxt,
ouylngbhxahrusnx phosnayngbhtuoojsp,hugqhgxohqusngbhoxhuplhzeuohej
zugojqhoxhlgxzk

“Exzhzxgqjsa yychoejchtuljhoenphpxum,”hejhpunqhbudngbhuohuhmnjfjhxa
pxumhejhzupheugqyngb,hzenfehUbuajuhTneuyxrguheuqhm ohsjuqchaxshoej
rnpnoxshi ohXiyxgplcheuqhgxoh pjqkh“Xgychyxxl;hzec,hno’phuhzxslhxa
usok”

“Cjp,hjrjscoengb’phisx beohoxhp fehuhmnofehxahmjsajfonxghgxzuqucp,”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehuhtxnpohugqhiynppa yhcuzgkh“Oejhoejuojs,
axshngpougfj,hugqhoejhjgojsoungtjgophkkkhu—u—u!”hejhcuzgjqkh“Oej
jyjfosnfhynbeohjrjsczejsjhkkkhu—u—u!”

“Cjp,hoejhjyjfosnfhynbeo,”hpunqhYjrngkh“CjpkhXe,hugqhzejsj’phRsxgplc
gxz?”hejhupljqhp qqjgyc,hyucngbhqxzghoejhpxumk

“Rsxgplc?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hfejflngbhenphcuzg;h“ej’phng
Mjojspi sbkhEjhyjaohpxxghuaojshcx hqnq,hugqhej’phgxohxgfjhijjghng
TxpfxzhpngfjkhUgqhqxhcx hlgxz,hLxpocu,hN’yyhojyyhcx hoejhos oe,”hej
zjgohxg,hyjugngbhenphjyixzhxghoejhouiyj,hugqhmsxmmngbhxghenpheugqhenp
eugqpxtjhs qqchaufj,hnghzenfehenphtxnpo,hbxxq-guo sjq,hpyjjmchjcjp
pexgjhynljhpouspkh“No’phcx shxzghau yokhCx hoxxlhasnbeohuohoejhpnbeohxa
cx shsnruykhI o,huphNhoxyqhcx huohoejhontj,hNhfx yqg’ohpuchzenfeheuq
oejhijoojshfeugfjkhZechqnqg’ohcx hanbeohnohx o?hNhoxyqhcx huohoejhontj
oeuokkkk”hEjhcuzgjqhngzusqyc,hznoex ohxmjgngbhenphtx oek

“Qxjphejhlgxz,hxshqxjpg’ohej,hoeuohNhqnqhtuljhughxaajs?”hYjrng
zxgqjsjq,hbudngbhuohentkh“Cjp,hoejsj’phpxtjoengbhe ti bbngb,hqnmyxtuonf
nghenphaufj,”hugqhajjyngbhejhzuphiy pengb,hejhyxxljqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehposunbeohnghoejhaufjhznoex ohpmjulngbk

“Nahoejsjhzuphugcoengbhxghejshpnqjhuohoejhontj,hnohzuphgxoengbhi ohu
p mjsanfnuyhuoosufonxg,”hm sp jqhXiyxgplckh“Enphijngbhp fehuhmjsajfo
usnpoxfsuo,hqxg’ohcx hlgxz,hugqhenpha o sjhmxpnonxghnghpxfnjoc,heuqhug
ngay jgfjhgxohznoehejs,hi ohznoehejshtxoejsk”

YjrnghpfxzyjqkhOejhe tnynuonxghxahenphsj.jfonxghpo gbhenthoxhoejhejuso,
uphoex behnohzjsjhuhasjpehzx gqhejheuqhxgych. pohsjfjnrjqkhI ohejhzup
uohextj,hugqhoejhzuyyphxahextjhusjhuhp mmxsok

“Pouc,hpouc,”hejhijbug,hngojss mongbhXiyxgplckh“Cx houylhxahenphijngb
ughusnpoxfsuokhI ohuyyxzhtjhoxhuplhzeuohnohfxgpnpophng,hoeuo
usnpoxfsufchxahRsxgplchxshxahugcixqchjypj,hijpnqjhzenfehNhfughijhyxxljq
qxzgh mxg?hCx hfxgpnqjshRsxgplchughusnpoxfsuo,hi ohNhqxg’okhUhtughzexpj
auoejshfsuzyjqh mhasxthgxoengbhuohuyyhichngosnb j,hugqhzexpjhtxoejs—Bxq
lgxzphzexthpejhzupg’ohtnvjqh mhznoekkkkhGx,hjvf pjhtj,hi ohNhfxgpnqjs
tcpjyahusnpoxfsuonf,hugqhmjxmyjhynljhtj,hzexhfughmxngohiuflhnghoejhmupo
oxhoesjjhxshax shexgxsuiyjhbjgjsuonxgphxahoejnshautnyc,hxahoejhenbejpo
qjbsjjhxahisjjqngbh(ouyjgohugqhngojyyjfo,hxahfx spjhoeuo’phugxoejs
tuoojs),hugqheurjhgjrjshf ssnjqhaurxshznoehugcxgj,hgjrjshqjmjgqjqhxg
ugcxgjhaxshugcoengb,hynljhtchauoejshugqhtchbsugqauoejskhUgqhNhlgxzhtugc
p fekhCx hoenglhnohtjughxahtjhoxhfx gohoejhosjjphnghtchaxsjpo,hzenyj
cx htuljhScuingnghuhmsjpjgohxahoensochoex pugq;hi ohcx hbjohsjgophasxt
cx shyugqphugqhNhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuo,hzenyjhNhqxg’ohugqhpxhNhmsndjhzeuo’p
fxtjhoxhtjhasxthtchugfjpoxsphxshijjghzxghicheusqhzxslkkkkhZjhusj
usnpoxfsuop,hugqhgxohoexpjhzexhfughxgychjvnpohichaurxshxahoejhmxzjsa y
xahoenphzxsyq,hugqhzexhfughijhix beohaxshozxmjgfjheuyamjggck”

“Zjyy,hi ohzexthusjhcx huoouflngb?hNhubsjjhznoehcx ,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hpngfjsjychugqhbjgnuyyc;hoex behejhzuphuzusjhoeuohnghoej
fyupphxahoexpjhzexhfx yqhijhix beohaxshozxmjgfjheuyamjggchYjrnghzup
sjflxgngbhenthoxxkhYjrng’phzustoehburjhenthbjg ngjhmyjup sjkh“Zexthusj
cx huoouflngb?hOex behuhbxxqhqjuyhnphgxohos jhoeuohcx hpuchuix o
Rsxgplc,hi ohNhzxg’ohouylhuix ohoeuokhNhojyyhcx hposunbeohx o,hnahN
zjsjhcx ,hNhpex yqhbxhiuflhznoehtjhoxhTxpfxz,hugqkkkk”

“Gx;hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzejoejshcx hlgxzhnohxshgxo,hi ohNhqxg’ohfusjkhUgqhN
ojyyhcx —Nhqnqhtuljhughxaajshugqhzuphsj.jfojq,hugqhLuojsngu
Uyjvugqsxrguhnphgxoengbhgxzhoxhtjhi ohuhmunga yhugqhe tnynuongb
sjtngnpfjgfjk”

“Zeuohjrjshaxs?hZeuohgxgpjgpj!”

“I ohzjhzxg’ohouylhuix ohnokhMyjupjhaxsbnrjhtj,hnahN’rjhijjghgupoc,”
punqhYjrngkhGxzhoeuohejheuqhxmjgjqhenphejuso,hejhijfutjhuphejheuqhijjg
nghoejhtxsgngbkh“Cx ’sjhgxohugbschznoehtj,hPonru?hMyjupjhqxg’ohij
ugbsc,”hejhpunq,hugqhptnyngb,hejhoxxlhenpheugqk

“Xahfx spjhgxo;hgxohuhino,hugqhgxhsjupxghoxhijkhN’thbyuqhzj’rjhpmxljg
xmjgyckhUgqhqxhcx hlgxz,hpougq-pexxongbhnghoejhtxsgngbhnph g p uyyc
bxxq—zechgxohbx?hNhfx yqg’ohpyjjmhoejhgnbeohugczuc,hi ohNhtnbeohbx
posunbeohasxthpexxongbhoxhoejhpouonxgk”

“Fumnouyk”


Feumojsh18

Uyoex behuyyhRsxgplc’phnggjshynajhzuphuipxsijqhnghenphmuppnxg,henp
jvojsguyhynajh guyojsuiychugqhngjrnouiychaxyyxzjqhuyxgbhoejhxyq
uff poxtjqhyngjphxahenphpxfnuyhugqhsjbntjgouyhonjphugqhngojsjpopkhOej
ngojsjpophxahenphsjbntjgohoxxlhughntmxsougohmyufjhnghRsxgplc’phynaj,
ixoehijfu pjhejhzuphaxgqhxahoejhsjbntjgo,hugqhijfu pjhoejhsjbntjgohzup
axgqhxahentkhOejchzjsjhgxohxgychaxgqhxahRsxgplchnghenphsjbntjgo,hoejc
sjpmjfojqhenthoxx,hugqhzjsjhmsx qhxahent;hmsx qhoeuohoenphtug,hznoehenp
nttjgpjhzjuyoe,henphisnyynugohjq fuonxghugqhuinynonjp,hugqhoejhmuoe
xmjghijaxsjhenthoxhjrjschlngqhxahp ffjpp,hqnpongfonxg,hugqhutinonxg,
euqhqnpsjbusqjqhuyyhoeuo,hugqhxahuyyhoejhngojsjpophxahynajheuqhoej
ngojsjpophxahenphsjbntjgohugqhenphfxtsuqjphgjusjpohoxhenphejusok
Rsxgplchzuphuzusjhxahenphfxtsuqjp’hrnjzhxahent,hugqhnghuqqnonxghoxhenp
ynlngbhaxshoejhynaj,hejhajyohix gqhoxhljjmh mhoeuohsjm ouonxgk

Nohgjjqhgxohijhpunqhoeuohejhqnqhgxohpmjulhxahenphyxrjhoxhugchxahenp
fxtsuqjp,hgxshqnqhejhijosuchenphpjfsjohjrjghnghoejhznyqjpohqsnglngb
ix oph(oex behngqjjqhejhzuphgjrjshpxhqs glhuphoxhyxpjhuyyhfxgosxyhxa
entpjya)khUgqhejhpe oh mhugchxahenphoex beoyjpphfxtsuqjphzexhuoojtmojq
oxhuyy qjhoxhenphfxggjfonxgkhI ohnghpmnojhxahoeuo,henphyxrjhzuphlgxzg
oxhuyyhoejhoxzg;hjrjscxgjhb jppjqhznoehtxsjhxshyjpphfxganqjgfjhuohenp
sjyuonxgphznoehTuqutjhLusjgngukhOejhtu.xsnochxahoejhcx gbjshtjghjgrnjq
enthaxsh. pohzeuohzuphoejhtxpohnslpxtjhaufoxshnghenphyxrj—oejhjvuyojq
mxpnonxghxahLusjgng,hugqhoejhfxgpjw jgohm iynfnochxahoejnshfxggjfonxg
nghpxfnjock

Oejhbsjuojshg tijshxahoejhcx gbhzxtjg,hzexhjgrnjqhUgguhugqheuqhyxgb
ijjghzjuschxahejusngbhejshfuyyjqh_rnso x p_,hsj.xnfjqhuohoej
a yanyytjgohxahoejnshmsjqnfonxgp,hugqhzjsjhxgychzunongbhaxshuhqjfnpnrj
o sghnghm iynfhxmngnxghoxhauyyh mxghejshznoehuyyhoejhzjnbeohxahoejns
pfxsgkhOejchzjsjhuysjuqchtulngbhsjuqchoejnsheugqa yphxaht qhoxhayngbhuo
ejshzejghoejhsnbeohtxtjgohussnrjqkhOejhbsjuojshg tijshxahoej
tnqqyj-ubjqhmjxmyjhugqhfjsounghbsjuohmjspxgubjphzjsjhqnpmyjupjqhuohoej
msxpmjfohxahoejhntmjgqngbhpfugquyhnghpxfnjock

Rsxgplc’phtxoejs,hxghejusngbhxahenphfxggjfonxg,hzuphuohanspohmyjupjqhuo
no,hijfu pjhgxoengbhoxhejshtngqhburjhp fehuhangnpengbhox fehoxhu
isnyynugohcx gbhtughuphuh_ynunpxg_hnghoejhenbejpohpxfnjoc;hpejhzup
myjupjq,hoxx,hoeuohTuqutjhLusjgngu,hzexheuqhpxhouljghejshaugfc,hugqheuq
ouyljqhpxht fehxahejshpxg,hzup,huaojshuyy,h. pohynljhuyyhxoejshmsjooc
ugqhzjyy-isjqhzxtjg,—uohyjupohuffxsqngbhoxhoejhFx gojpphRsxgplucu’p
nqjupkhI ohpejheuqhejusqhxahyuojhoeuohejshpxgheuqhsja pjqhuhmxpnonxg
xaajsjqhenthxahbsjuohntmxsougfjhoxhenphfusjjs,hpntmychnghxsqjshox
sjtunghnghoejhsjbntjgo,hzejsjhejhfx yqhijhfxgpougoychpjjngbhTuqutj
LusjgngukhPejhyjusgjqhoeuohbsjuohmjspxgubjphzjsjhqnpmyjupjqhznoehenthxg
oenphuffx go,hugqhpejhfeugbjqhejshxmngnxgkhPejhzuphrjvjq,hoxx,hoeuo
asxthuyyhpejhfx yqhyjusghxahoenphfxggjfonxghnohzuphgxohoeuohisnyynugo,
bsufja y,hzxsyqych_ynunpxg_hzenfehpejhzx yqheurjhzjyfxtjq,hi ohuhpxso
xahZjsoejsnpe,hqjpmjsuojhmuppnxg,hpxhpejhzuphoxyq,hzenfehtnbeohzjyy
yjuqhenthngoxhntms qjgfjkhPejheuqhgxohpjjghenthpngfjhenphuis mo
qjmuso sjhasxthTxpfxz,hugqhpejhpjgohejshjyqjshpxghoxhinqhenthfxtjhox
pjjhejsk

Oenphjyqjshpxg,hoxx,hzuphqnpmyjupjqhznoehenphcx gbjshisxoejskhEjhqnq
gxohqnpongb npehzeuohpxsohxahyxrjhenphtnbeohij,hinbhxshynooyj,
muppnxguojhxshmuppnxgyjpp,hyupongbhxshmuppngbh(ejhljmohuhiuyyjohbnsy
entpjya,hoex behejhzuphoejhauoejshxahuhautnyc,hpxhejhzuphyjgnjgohng
oejpjhtuoojsp),hi ohejhlgjzhoeuohoenphyxrjhuaaunshzuphrnjzjqhznoe
qnpmyjup sjhichoexpjhzexthnohzuphgjfjppuschoxhmyjupj,hugqhoejsjaxsjhej
qnqhgxohummsxrjhxahenphisxoejs’phfxgq fok

Ijpnqjphoejhpjsrnfjhugqhpxfnjoc,hRsxgplcheuqhugxoejshbsjuo
ngojsjpo—exspjp;hejhzuphmuppnxguojychaxgqhxahexspjpk

Oeuohcjushsufjphugqhuhpojjmyjfeupjheuqhijjghussugbjqhaxshoejhxaanfjspk
Rsxgplcheuqhm ohenphgutjhqxzg,hix beohuhoexsx beisjqhJgbynpehtusj,hugq
nghpmnojhxahenphyxrjhuaauns,hejhzuphyxxlngbhaxszusqhoxhoejhsufjphznoe
ngojgpj,hoex behsjpjsrjq,hjvfnojtjgokkkk

OejpjhozxhmuppnxgphqnqhgxohngojsajsjhznoehxgjhugxoejskhXghoejhfxgosusc,
ejhgjjqjqhxff muonxghugqhqnposufonxghw nojhumusohasxthenphyxrj,hpxhup
oxhsjfs nohugqhsjpohentpjyahasxthoejhrnxyjgohjtxonxgphoeuohubnouojq
entk


Feumojsh19

XghoejhquchxahoejhsufjphuohLsupgxjhPjyx,hRsxgplcheuqhfxtjhjusynjshoeug
 p uyhoxhjuohijjapojulhnghoejhfxttxghtjppsxxthxahoejhsjbntjgokhEjheuq
gxhgjjqhoxhijhposnfohznoehentpjya,huphejheuqhrjschw nflychijjghisx beo
qxzghoxhoejhsjw nsjqhynbeohzjnbeo;hi ohponyyhejheuqhoxhurxnqhbungngb
ayjpe,hugqhpxhejhjpfejzjqhausngufjx phugqhpzjjohqnpejpkhEjhpuohznoehenp
fxuoh gi ooxgjqhxrjshuhzenojhzunpofxuo,hsjpongbhixoehjyixzphxghoej
ouiyj,hugqhzenyjhzunongbhaxshoejhpojulhejheuqhxsqjsjqhejhyxxljqhuohu
AsjgfehgxrjyhoeuohyuchxmjghxghenphmyuojkhEjhzuphxgychyxxlngbhuohoej
ixxlhoxhurxnqhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhxaanfjsphfxtngbhnghugqhx o;hejhzup
oenglngbk

EjhzuphoenglngbhxahUggu’phmsxtnpjhoxhpjjhenthoeuohquchuaojshoejhsufjpk
I ohejheuqhgxohpjjghejshaxshoesjjhqucp,hugqhuphejshe piugqheuqh. po
sjo sgjqhasxthuisxuq,hejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshpejhzx yqhijhuiyjhoxhtjjo
enthoxquchxshgxo,hugqhejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhoxhangqhx okhEjheuqheuqhenp
yupohngojsrnjzhznoehejshuohenphfx pnghIjopc’php ttjshrnyyukhEjhrnpnojq
oejhLusjgngp’hp ttjshrnyyuhuphsusjychuphmxppniyjkhGxzhejhzugojqhoxhbx
oejsj,hugqhejhmxgqjsjqhoejhw jponxghexzhoxhqxhnok

“Xahfx spjhNhpeuyyhpuchIjopcheuphpjgohtjhoxhuplhzejoejshpej’phfxtngbhox
oejhsufjpkhXahfx spj,hN’yyhbx,”hejhqjfnqjq,hynaongbhenphejuqhasxthoej
ixxlkhUgqhuphejhrnrnqychmnfo sjqhoejheummngjpphxahpjjngbhejs,henphaufj
ynbeojqh mk

“Pjgqhoxhtchex pj,hugqhojyyhoejthoxheurjhx ohoejhfussnubjhugqhoesjj
exspjphuphw nflhuphoejchfug,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhpjsrugo,hzexheugqjqhent
oejhpojulhxghuhexohpnyrjshqnpe,hugqhtxrngbhoejhqnpeh mhejhijbughjuongbk

Asxthoejhinyynusqhsxxthgjvohqxxshfutjhoejhpx gqhxahiuyyphlgxflngb,hxa
ouylhugqhyu beojskhOzxhxaanfjsphummjusjqhuohoejhjgosugfj-qxxs:hxgj,hu
cx gbhajyyxz,hznoehuhajjiyj,hqjynfuojhaufj,hzexheuqhyuojych.xngjqhoej
sjbntjgohasxthoejhFxsmphxahMubjp;hoejhxoejs,huhmy tm,hjyqjsychxaanfjs,
znoehuhisufjyjohxghenphzsnpo,hugqhynooyjhjcjp,hyxpohnghauok

Rsxgplchbyugfjqhuohoejt,hasxzgjq,hugqhyxxlngbhqxzghuohenphixxlhup
oex behejheuqhgxohgxonfjqhoejt,hejhmsxfjjqjqhoxhjuohugqhsjuqhuohoej
putjhontjk

“Zeuo?hAxsonacngbhcx spjyahaxshcx shzxsl?”hpunqhoejhmy tmhxaanfjs,
pnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhentk

“Uphcx hpjj,”hsjpmxgqjqhRsxgplc,hlgnoongbhenphisxzp,hznmngbhenphtx oe,
ugqhgxohyxxlngbhuohoejhxaanfjsk

“Pxhcx ’sjhgxohuasunqhxahbjoongbhauo?”hpunqhoejhyuoojs,ho sgngbhuhfeuns
sx gqhaxshoejhcx gbhxaanfjsk

“Zeuo?”hpunqhRsxgplchugbsnyc,htulngbhuhzschaufjhxahqnpb po,hugqhpexzngb
enphjrjghojjoek

“Cx ’sjhgxohuasunqhxahbjoongbhauo?”

“Zunojs,hpejssc!”hpunqhRsxgplc,hznoex ohsjmycngb,hugqhtxrngbhoejhixxl
oxhoejhxoejshpnqjhxahent,hejhzjgohxghsjuqngbk

Oejhmy tmhxaanfjshoxxlh mhoejhynpohxahzngjphugqho sgjqhoxhoejhcx gb
xaanfjsk

“Cx hfexxpjhzeuohzj’sjhoxhqsngl,”hejhpunq,heugqngbhenthoejhfusq,hugq
yxxlngbhuohentk

“Sengjhzngj,hmyjupj,”hpunqhoejhcx gbhxaanfjs,hpojuyngbhuhontnqhbyugfj
uohRsxgplc,hugqhoscngbhoxhm yyhenphpfusfjychrnpniyjht poufejkhPjjngb
oeuohRsxgplchqnqhgxoho sghsx gq,hoejhcx gbhxaanfjshbxoh mk

“Yjo’phbxhngoxhoejhinyynusqhsxxt,”hejhpunqk

Oejhmy tmhxaanfjshsxpjhp itnppnrjyc,hugqhoejchtxrjqhoxzusqphoejhqxxsk

Uohoeuohtxtjgohoejsjhzuyljqhngoxhoejhsxxthoejhouyyhugqhzjyy-i nyo
FumounghCuperngkhGxqqngbhznoehughunshxahyxaochfxgojtmohoxhoejhozx
xaanfjsp,hejhzjgoh mhoxhRsxgplck

“Ue!hejsjhejhnp!”hejhfsnjq,hisngbngbhenphinbheugqhqxzghejurnychxghenp
jmu yjokhRsxgplchyxxljqhsx gqhugbsnyc,hi ohenphaufjhynbeojqh m
nttjqnuojychznoehenphfeusufojsnponfhjvmsjppnxghxahbjgnuyhugqhtugyc
pjsjgnock

“Oeuo’phno,hUyjvjc,”hpunqhoejhfumoung,hnghenphyx qhiusnoxgjkh“Cx ht po
. pohjuohuhtx oea y,hgxz,hugqhqsnglhxgychxgjhongchbyuppk”

“Xe,hN’thgxohe gbsck”

“Oejsjhbxhoejhngpjmusuiyjp,”hCupernghqsxmmjq,hbyugfngbhpusfuponfuyychuo
oejhozxhxaanfjsphzexhzjsjhuohoeuohngpougohyjurngbhoejhsxxtkhUgqhejhijgo
enphyxgbhyjbp,hpzuoejqhnghonbeohsnqngbhisjjfejp,hugqhpuohqxzghnghoej
feuns,hoxxhyxzhaxshent,hpxhoeuohenphlgjjphzjsjhfsutmjqh mhnghuhpeusm
ugbyjk

“Zechqnqg’ohcx ho sgh mhuohoejhSjqhOejuojshcjpojsquc?hG tjsxruhzupg’o
uohuyyhiuqkhZejsjhzjsjhcx ?”

“NhzuphyuojhuohoejhOrjsplxcp’,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“Ue!”hsjpmxgqjqhCuperngk

Cuperng,huhbutiyjshugqhuhsulj,huhtughgxohtjsjychznoex ohtxsuy
msngfnmyjp,hi ohxahnttxsuyhmsngfnmyjp,hCupernghzuphRsxgplc’phbsjuojpo
asnjgqhnghoejhsjbntjgokhRsxgplchynljqhenthixoehaxshenphjvfjmonxguy
mecpnfuyhposjgboe,hzenfehejhpexzjqhaxshoejhtxpohmusohichijngbhuiyjhox
qsnglhynljhuhanpe,hugqhqxhznoex ohpyjjmhznoex ohijngbhnghoejhpynbeojpo
qjbsjjhuaajfojqhichno;hugqhaxshenphbsjuohposjgboehxahfeusufojs,hzenfe
ejhpexzjqhnghenphsjyuonxgphznoehenphfxtsuqjphugqhp mjsnxshxaanfjsp,
fxttugqngbhixoehajushugqhsjpmjfo,hugqhuypxhuohfusqp,hzejghejhzx yqhmyuc
axshojgphxahoex pugqphugqhexzjrjsht fehejhtnbeoheurjhqs gl,huyzucphznoe
p fehplnyyhugqhqjfnpnxghoeuohejhzuphsjflxgjqhoejhijpohmyucjshnghoej
JgbynpehFy ikhRsxgplchsjpmjfojqhugqhynljqhCupernghmusonf yusychijfu pj
ejhajyohCupernghynljqhent,hgxohaxshenphgutjhugqhenphtxgjc,hi ohaxs
entpjyakhUgqhxahuyyhtjghejhzuphoejhxgychxgjhznoehzexthRsxgplchzx yq
eurjhynljqhoxhpmjulhxahenphyxrjkhEjhajyohoeuohCuperng,hnghpmnojhxahenp
ummusjgohfxgojtmohaxshjrjschpxsohxahajjyngb,hzuphoejhxgychtughzex
fx yq,hpxhejhaugfnjq,hfxtmsjejgqhoejhngojgpjhmuppnxghzenfehgxzhanyyjq
enphzexyjhynajkhTxsjxrjs,hejhajyohfjsounghoeuohCuperng,huphnohzup,hoxxl
gxhqjynbeohnghbxppnmhugqhpfugquy,hugqhngojsmsjojqhenphajjyngbhsnbeoyc,
oeuohnphoxhpuc,hlgjzhugqhijynjrjqhoeuohoenphmuppnxghzuphgxohuh.jpo,hgxo
uhmupontj,hi ohpxtjoengbhtxsjhpjsnx phugqhntmxsougok

Rsxgplcheuqhgjrjshpmxljghoxhenthxahenphmuppnxg,hi ohejhzuphuzusjhoeuo
ejhlgjzhuyyhuix ohno,hugqhoeuohejhm ohoejhsnbeohngojsmsjouonxghxghno,
ugqhejhzuphbyuqhoxhpjjhoeuohnghenphjcjpk

“Ue!hcjp,”hejhpunq,hoxhoejhuggx gfjtjgohoeuohRsxgplcheuqhijjghuohoej
Orjsplxcp’;hugqhenphiyuflhjcjphpengngb,hejhmy fljqhuohenphyjao
t poufej,hugqhijbughoznpongbhnohngoxhenphtx oe,huhiuqheuinohejheuqk

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohqnqhcx hqxhcjpojsquc?hZnghugcoengb?”hupljqhRsxgplck

“Jnbeohoex pugqkhI ohoesjjhqxg’ohfx go;hejhzxg’ohmuch mk”

“Xe,hoejghcx hfughuaaxsqhoxhyxpjhxrjshtj,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hyu bengbk
(CuperngheuqhijohejurnychxghRsxgplchnghoejhsufjpk)

“GxhfeugfjhxahtchyxpngbkhTuexong’phoejhxgychxgjhoeuo’phsnplck”

Ugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghmuppjqhoxhaxsjfupophxahoejhfxtngbhsufj,hoejhxgyc
oengbhRsxgplchfx yqhoenglhxah. pohgxzk

“Fxtjhuyxgb,hN’rjhangnpejq,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hugqhbjoongbh mhejhzjgohox
oejhqxxskhCupernghbxoh mhoxx,hposjofengbhenphyxgbhyjbphugqhenphyxgb
iuflk

“No’phoxxhjusychaxshtjhoxhqngj,hi ohNht poheurjhuhqsnglkhN’yyhfxtj
uyxgbhqnsjfoyckhEn,hzngj!”hejhpex ojq,hnghenphsnfehrxnfj,hoeuohuyzucp
sugbhx ohpxhyx qychuohqsnyy,hugqhpjohoejhzngqxzphpeulngbhgxzk

“Gx,huyyhsnbeo,”hejhpex ojqhubunghnttjqnuojychuaojskh“Cx ’sjhbxngb
extj,hpxhN’yyhbxhznoehcx k”

Ugqhejhzuyljqhx ohznoehRsxgplck


Feumojsh20

Rsxgplchzuphpoucngbhnghuhsxxtc,hfyjug,hAnggnpehe o,hqnrnqjqhngoxhozxhic
uhmusononxgkhMjosnoplchynrjqhznoehenthnghfutmhoxxkhMjosnoplchzuphupyjjm
zejghRsxgplchugqhCupernghfutjhngoxhoejhe ok

“Bjoh m,hqxg’ohbxhxghpyjjmngb,”hpunqhCuperng,hbxngbhijengqhoej
musononxghugqhbnrngbhMjosnoplc,hzexhzuphycngbhznoehs aayjqheunshugq
znoehenphgxpjhnghoejhmnyyxz,huhmsxqhxghoejhpex yqjsk

Mjosnoplch. tmjqh mhp qqjgychxgoxhenphlgjjphugqhyxxljqhsx gqk

“Cx shisxoejs’phijjghejsj,”hejhpunqhoxhRsxgplckh“Ejhzuljqhtjh m,hqutg
ent,hugqhpunqhej’qhyxxlhnghubungk”hUgqhm yyngbh mhoejhs bhejhay gb
entpjyahiuflhxghoejhmnyyxzkh“Xe,hqxhpe oh m,hCuperng!”hejhpunq,hbjoongb
a snx phznoehCuperng,hzexhzuphm yyngbhoejhs bhxaahentkh“Pe oh m!”hEj
o sgjqhxrjshugqhxmjgjqhenphjcjpkh“Cx ’qhijoojshojyyhtjhzeuohoxhqsngl;
p fehuhgupochoupojhnghtchtx oe,hoeuokkkk”

“Isugqc’phijoojshoeughugcoengb,”hixxtjqhCuperngkh“Ojsjpeofejglx!hisugqc
axshcx shtupojshugqhf f tijsp,”hejhpex ojq,hxirnx pychoulngbhmyjup sj
nghoejhpx gqhxahenphxzghrxnfjk

“Isugqc,hqxhcx hoengl?hJe?”hw jsnjqhMjosnoplc,hiynglngbhugqhs iingbhenp
jcjpkh“Ugqhcx ’yyhqsnglhpxtjoengb?hUyyhsnbeohoejg,hzj’yyheurjhuhqsngl
oxbjoejs!hRsxgplc,heurjhuhqsngl?”hpunqhMjosnoplc,hbjoongbh mhugq
zsummngbhoejhonbjs-plnghs bhsx gqhentkhEjhzjgohoxhoejhqxxshxahoej
musononxghzuyy,hsunpjqhenpheugqp,hugqhe ttjqhnghAsjgfe,h“Oejsjhzuphu
lngbhnghOe yjk”h“Rsxgplc,hznyyhcx heurjhuhqsngl?”

“Bxhuyxgb,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hm oongbhxghoejhfxuohenphruyjoheugqjqhoxhentk

“Zejsjhusjhcx hxaahox?”hupljqhCuperngkh“Xe,hejsjhusjhcx shoesjj
exspjp,”hejhuqqjq,hpjjngbhoejhfussnubjhqsnrjh mk

“Oxhoejhpouiyjp,hugqhN’rjhbxohoxhpjjhIscugplc,hoxx,huix ohoejhexspjp,”
punqhRsxgplck

RsxgplcheuqhuphuhaufohmsxtnpjqhoxhfuyyhuohIscugplc’p,hpxtjhjnbeohtnyjp
asxthMjojsexa,hugqhoxhisngbhenthpxtjhtxgjchxzngbhaxshpxtjhexspjp;hugq
ejhexmjqhoxheurjhontjhoxhbjohoeuohnghoxxkhI ohenphfxtsuqjphzjsjhuohxgfj
uzusjhoeuohejhzuphgxohxgychbxngbhoejsjk

Mjosnoplc,hponyyhe ttngb,hzngljqhugqhtuqjhuhmx ohznoehenphynmp,hup
oex behejhzx yqhpuc:h“Xe,hcjp,hzjhlgxzhcx shIscugplck”

“Tngqhcx ’sjhgxohyuoj!”hzuphCuperng’phxgychfxttjgo;hugqhoxhfeugbjhoej
fxgrjspuonxg:h“Exz’phtchsxug?hnphejhqxngbhuyyhsnbeo?”hejhngw nsjq,
yxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhuohoejhtnqqyjhxgjhxahoejhoesjjhexspjp,hzenfe
ejheuqhpxyqhRsxgplck

“Poxm!”hfsnjqhMjosnoplchoxhRsxgplchuphejhzuph. pohbxngbhx okh“Cx s
isxoejshyjaohuhyjoojshugqhuhgxojhaxshcx khZunohuhino;hzejsjhusjhoejc?”

Rsxgplchpoxmmjqk

“Zjyy,hzejsjhusjhoejc?”

“Zejsjhusjhoejc?hOeuo’ph. pohoejhw jponxg!”hpunqhMjosnoplchpxyjtgyc,
txrngbhenphaxsjangbjsh mzusqphasxthenphgxpjk

“Fxtj,hojyyhtj;hoenphnphpnyyc!”hpunqhRsxgplchptnyngbk

“NheurjhgxohynbeojqhoejhansjkhEjsjhpxtjzejsjhuix ok”

“Fxtj,hjgx behaxxyngb!hZejsjhnphoejhyjoojs?”

“Gx,hN’rjhaxsbxoojghsjuyyckhXshzuphnohuhqsjut?hZunohuhino,hzunohuhino!
I ohzeuo’phoejh pjhxahbjoongbhnghuhsubjkhNahcx ’qhqs glhax shixooyjp
cjpojsquchuphNhqnqhcx ’qhaxsbjohzejsjhcx hzjsjhycngbkhZunohuhino,hN’yy
sjtjtijs!”

Mjosnoplchzjgohijengqhoejhmusononxghugqhyuchqxzghxghenphijqk

“Zunohuhino!hOenphzuphexzhNhzuphycngb,hugqhoenphzuphexzhejhzup
pougqngbkhCjp—cjp—cjpkkkkhEjsjhnohnp!”—ugqhMjosnoplchm yyjqhuhyjoojs
x ohasxth gqjshoejhtuoosjpp,hzejsjhejheuqhenqqjghnok

Rsxgplchoxxlhoejhyjoojshugqhenphisxoejs’phgxojkhNohzuphoejhyjoojshej
zuphjvmjfongb—asxthenphtxoejs,hsjmsxufengbhenthaxshgxoheurngbhijjghox
pjjhejs—ugqhoejhgxojhzuphasxthenphisxoejshoxhpuchoeuohejht poheurjhu
ynooyjhouylhznoehentkhRsxgplchlgjzhoeuohnohzuphuyyhuix ohoejhputj
oengbkh“Zeuohi pngjpphnphnohxahoejnsp!”hoex beohRsxgplc,hugqhfs tmyngb
 mhoejhyjoojsphejhoes pohoejthijozjjghoejhi ooxgphxahenphfxuohpxhuphox
sjuqhoejthfusja yychxghoejhsxuqkhNghoejhmxsfehxahoejhe ohejhzuphtjohic
ozxhxaanfjsp;hxgjhxahenphsjbntjgohugqhxgjhxahugxoejsk

Rsxgplc’phw usojsphzjsjhuyzucphuhtjjongbhmyufjhaxshuyyhoejhxaanfjspk

“Zejsjhusjhcx hxaahox?”

“Nht pohbxhoxhMjojsexak”

“EuphoejhtusjhfxtjhasxthOpusplxj?”

“Cjp,hi ohN’rjhgxohpjjghejshcjok”

“OejchpuchTuexong’phByuqnuoxs’phyutjk”

“Gxgpjgpj!hI ohexzjrjshusjhcx hbxngbhoxhsufjhnghoenpht q?”hpunqhoej
xoejsk

“Ejsjhusjhtchpurnxsp!”hfsnjqhMjosnoplc,hpjjngbhoejthfxtjhngkhIjaxsjhent
poxxqhoejhxsqjsychznoehuhosuchxahisugqchugqhpuyojqhf f tijspkh“Ejsj’p
Cupernghxsqjsngbhtjhoxhqsnglhuhmnfl-tj- mk”

“Zjyy,hcx hqnqhbnrjhnohoxh phcjpojsquc,”hpunqhxgjhxahoexpjhzexheuqhfxtj
ng;h“cx hqnqg’ohyjoh phbjohuhznglhxahpyjjmhuyyhgnbeok”

“Xe,hqnqg’ohzjhtuljhuhmsjoochangnpe!”hpunqhMjosnoplckh“Rxylxrhfyntijq
xgoxhoejhsxxahugqhijbughojyyngbh phexzhpuqhejhzupkhNhpunq:h‘Yjo’pheurj
t pnf,hoejha gjsuyhtusfe!’hEjhaunsychqsxmmjqhupyjjmhxghoejhsxxahxrjs
oejha gjsuyhtusfek”

“Qsnglhnoh m;hcx hmxpnonrjycht pohqsnglhoejhisugqc,hugqhoejghpjyodjs
zuojshugqhuhyxohxahyjtxg,”hpunqhCuperng,hpougqngbhxrjshMjosnoplchynljhu
txoejshtulngbhuhfenyqhouljhtjqnfngj,h“ugqhoejghuhynooyjhfeutmubgj—. po
uhptuyyhixooyjk”

“Fxtj,hoejsj’phpxtjhpjgpjhnghoeuokhPoxmhuhino,hRsxgplckhZj’yyhuyyheurj
uhqsnglk”

“Gx;hbxxq-icjhuyyhxahcx khN’thgxohbxngbhoxhqsnglhoxquck”

“Zec,husjhcx hbungngbhzjnbeo?hUyyhsnbeo,hoejghzjht poheurjhnohuyxgjk
Bnrjh phoejhpjyodjshzuojshugqhyjtxgk”

“Rsxgplc!”hpex ojqhpxtjxgjhzejghejhzuphuysjuqchx opnqjk

“Zjyy?”

“Cx ’qhijoojshbjohcx sheunshf o,hno’yyhzjnbehcx hqxzg,hjpmjfnuyychuo
oejhoxmk”

Rsxgplchzuphnghaufohijbnggngb,hmsjtuo sjyc,hoxhbjohuhynooyjhiuyqkhEj
yu bejqhbunyc,hpexzngbhenphjrjghojjoe,hugqhm yyngbhenphfumhxrjshoej
oenghmyufj,hzjgohx ohugqhbxohngoxhenphfussnubjk

“Oxhoejhpouiyjp!”hejhpunq,hugqhzuph. pohm yyngbhx ohoejhyjoojsphoxhsjuq
oejthoesx be,hi ohejhoex beohijoojshxahno,hugqhm ohxaahsjuqngbhoejthpx
uphgxohoxhqnposufohenphuoojgonxghijaxsjhyxxlngbhuohoejhtusjkh“Yuojs!”


Feumojsh21

Oejhojtmxsuschpouiyj,huhzxxqjghpejq,heuqhijjghm oh mhfyxpjhoxhoejhsufj
fx spj,hugqhoejsjhenphtusjhzuphoxheurjhijjghouljghoejhmsjrnx phquckhEj
euqhgxohcjohpjjghejshoejsjk

Q sngbhoejhyupohajzhqucphejheuqhgxohsnqqjghejshx ohaxshjvjsfnpj
entpjya,hi oheuqhm ohejshnghoejhfeusbjhxahoejhosungjs,hugqhpxhgxzhej
mxpnonrjychqnqhgxohlgxzhnghzeuohfxgqnonxghenphtusjheuqhussnrjq
cjpojsquchugqhzuphoxquckhEjheuqhpfusfjychbxohx ohxahenphfussnubjhzejg
enphbsxxt,hoejhpx-fuyyjqh“pouiyjhixc,”hsjfxbgndngbhoejhfussnubjhpxtj
zuchxaa,hfuyyjqhoejhosungjskhUhqsc-yxxlngbhJgbynpetug,hnghenbehixxop
ugqhuhpexsoh.ufljo,hfyjug-peurjg,hjvfjmohaxshuho aohijyxzhenphfeng,
futjhoxhtjjohent,hzuylngbhznoehoejh gfx oehbunohxah.xfljc,ho sgngbhenp
jyixzphx ohugqhpzucngbhasxthpnqjhoxhpnqjk

“Zjyy,hexz’phAsx -Asx ?”hRsxgplchupljqhnghJgbynpek

“Uyyhsnbeo,hpns,”hoejhJgbynpetug’phrxnfjhsjpmxgqjqhpxtjzejsjhnghoej
ngpnqjhxahenphoesxuokh“Ijoojshgxohbxhng,”hejhuqqjq,hox fengbhenpheuok
“N’rjhm ohuht ddyjhxghejs,hugqhoejhtusj’phanqbjockhIjoojshgxohbxhng,
no’yyhjvfnojhoejhtusjk”

“Gx,hN’thbxngbhngkhNhzugohoxhyxxlhuohejsk”

“Fxtjhuyxgb,hoejg,”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetug,hasxzgngb,hugqhpmjulngbhznoe
enphtx oehpe o,hugq,hznoehpzngbngbhjyixzp,hejhzjgohxghnghasxgohznoehenp
qnp.xngojqhbunok

OejchzjgohngoxhoejhynooyjhcusqhnghasxgohxahoejhpejqkhUhpouiyjhixc,
pms fjhugqhptusohnghenphexynquchuoonsj,htjohoejthznoehuhisxxthnghenp
eugq,hugqhaxyyxzjqhoejtkhNghoejhpejqhoejsjhzjsjhanrjhexspjphnghoejns
pjmusuojhpouyyp,hugqhRsxgplchlgjzhoeuohenphfenjahsnruy,hByuqnuoxs,hu
rjschouyyhfejpog ohexspj,heuqhijjghisx beohoejsj,hugqht pohijhpougqngb
utxgbhoejtkhJrjghtxsjhoeughenphtusj,hRsxgplchyxgbjqhoxhpjjhByuqnuoxs,
zexthejheuqhgjrjshpjjgkhI ohejhlgjzhoeuohichoejhjonw joojhxahoejhsufj
fx spjhnohzuphgxohtjsjychntmxppniyjhaxshenthoxhpjjhoejhexspj,hi o
ntmsxmjshjrjghoxhuplhw jponxgphuix ohentkh. pohuphejhzuphmuppngbhuyxgb
oejhmuppubj,hoejhixchxmjgjqhoejhqxxshngoxhoejhpjfxgqhexspj-ixvhxghoej
yjao,hugqhRsxgplchfu beohuhbyntmpjhxahuhinbhfejpog ohexspjhznoehzenoj
yjbpkhEjhlgjzhoeuohoenphzuphByuqnuoxs,hi o,hznoehoejhajjyngbhxahuhtug
o sgngbhuzuchasxthoejhpnbeohxahugxoejshtug’phxmjghyjoojs,hejho sgjq
sx gqhugqhzjgohngoxhAsx -Asx ’phpouyyk

“OejhexspjhnphejsjhijyxgbngbhoxhTulkkkhTulkkkhNhgjrjshfughpuchoej
gutj,”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetug,hxrjshenphpex yqjs,hmxngongbhenphinbhangbjs
ugqhqnsochgunyhoxzusqphByuqnuoxs’phpouyyk

“Tuexong?hCjp,hej’phtchtxpohpjsnx phsnruy,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“Nahcx hzjsjhsnqngbhent,”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetug,h“N’qhijohxghcx k”

“Asx -Asx ’phtxsjhgjsrx p;hej’phposxgbjs,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hptnyngbhuohoej
fxtmyntjgohoxhenphsnqngbk

“Nghuhpojjmyjfeupjhnohuyyhqjmjgqphxghsnqngbhugqhxghmy fl,”hpunqhoej
Jgbynpetugk

Xahmy fl—oeuohnp,hjgjsbchugqhfx subj—Rsxgplchqnqhgxohtjsjychajjyhoeuo
ejheuqhjgx be;hzeuohzuphxahaushtxsjhntmxsougfj,hejhzuphanstychfxgrngfjq
oeuohgxhxgjhnghoejhzxsyqhfx yqheurjhtxsjhxahoenph“my fl”hoeughejheuqk

“Qxg’ohcx hoenglhNhzugohtxsjhoenggngbhqxzg?”

“Xe,hgx,”hugpzjsjqhoejhJgbynpetugkh“Myjupj,hqxg’ohpmjulhyx qkhOej
tusj’phanqbjoc,”hejhuqqjq,hgxqqngbhoxzusqphoejhexspj-ixv,hijaxsjhzenfe
oejchzjsjhpougqngb,hugqhasxthzenfehfutjhoejhpx gqhxahsjpoyjpphpoutmngb
nghoejhposuzk

Ejhxmjgjqhoejhqxxs,hugqhRsxgplchzjgohngoxhoejhexspj-ixv,hqntychynbeojq
ichxgjhynooyjhzngqxzkhNghoejhexspj-ixvhpoxxqhuhquslhiuchtusj,hznoehu
t ddyjhxg,hmnflngbhuohoejhasjpehposuzhznoehejshexxapkhYxxlngbhsx gqhent
nghoejhoznynbeohxahoejhexspj-ixv,hRsxgplch gfxgpfnx pychoxxlhnghxgfj
txsjhnghuhfxtmsjejgpnrjhbyugfjhuyyhoejhmxngophxahenphaurxsnojhtusjk
Asx -Asx hzuphuhijupohxahtjqn thpndj,hgxohuyoxbjoejshasjjhasxt
sjmsxufe,hasxthuhisjjqjs’phmxngohxahrnjzkhPejhzuphptuyy-ixgjqhuyyhxrjs;
oex behejshfejpohzuphjvosjtjychmsxtngjgohnghasxgo,hnohzuphgussxzkhEjs
engq-w usojsphzjsjhuhynooyjhqsxxmngb,hugqhnghejshaxsj-yjbp,hugqhponyy
txsjhnghejshengq-yjbp,hoejsjhzuphuhgxonfjuiyjhf sruo sjkhOejht pfyjphxa
ixoehengq-hugqhaxsj-yjbphzjsjhgxohrjschoenfl;hi ohufsxpphejshpex yqjsp
oejhtusjhzuphjvfjmonxguyychisxuq,huhmjf ynusnochpmjfnuyychposnlngbhgxz
oeuohpejhzuphyjughasxthosungngbkhOejhixgjphxahejshyjbphijyxzhoejhlgjjp
yxxljqhgxhoenfljshoeughuhangbjshasxthnghasxgo,hi ohzjsjhjvosuxsqngusnyc
oenflhpjjghasxthoejhpnqjkhPejhyxxljqhuyoxbjoejs,hjvfjmohufsxpphoej
pex yqjsp,huphnohzjsj,hmngfejqhnghuohoejhpnqjphugqhmsjppjqhx ohng
qjmoekhI ohpejheuqhnghoejhenbejpohqjbsjjhoejhw uynochoeuohtuljphuyy
qjajfophaxsbxoojg:hoeuohw uynochzuph_iyxxq_,hoejhiyxxqh_oeuohojyyp_,hup
oejhJgbynpehjvmsjppnxgheuphnokhOejht pfyjphpoxxqh mhpeusmych gqjshoej
gjozxslhxahpngjzp,hfxrjsjqhznoehoejhqjynfuoj,htxinyjhplng,hpxaohup
puong,hugqhoejchzjsjheusqhuphixgjkhEjshfyjug-f ohejuq,hznoehmsxtngjgo,
isnbeo,hpmnsnojqhjcjp,hisxuqjgjqhx ohuohoejhxmjghgxposnyp,hoeuohpexzjq
oejhsjqhiyxxqhnghoejhfusonyubjhznoengkhUix ohuyyhejshanb sj,hugq
jpmjfnuyychejshejuq,hoejsjhzuphuhfjsounghjvmsjppnxghxahjgjsbc,hugq,huo
oejhputjhontj,hxahpxaogjppkhPejhzuphxgjhxahoexpjhfsjuo sjphzenfehpjjt
xgychgxohoxhpmjulhijfu pjhoejhtjfeugnpthxahoejnshtx oehqxjphgxohuyyxz
oejthoxk

OxhRsxgplc,huohugchsuoj,hnohpjjtjqhoeuohpejh gqjspoxxqhuyyhejhajyohuo
oeuohtxtjgo,hyxxlngbhuohejsk

QnsjfoychRsxgplchzjgohoxzusqphejs,hpejhqsjzhnghuhqjjmhisjuoe,hugq,
o sgngbhiuflhejshmsxtngjgohjcjhonyyhoejhzenojhyxxljqhiyxxqpexo,hpej
pousojqhuohoejhummsxufengbhanb sjphasxthoejhxmmxpnojhpnqj,hpeulngbhejs
t ddyj,hugqhpenaongbhynbeoychasxthxgjhyjbhoxhoejhxoejsk

“Oejsj,hcx hpjjhexzhanqbjochpejhnp,”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetugk

“Oejsj,hqusyngb!hOejsj!”hpunqhRsxgplc,hbxngbh mhoxhoejhtusjhugq
pmjulngbhpxxoengbychoxhejsk

I ohoejhgjusjshejhfutj,hoejhtxsjhjvfnojqhpejhbsjzkhXgychzejghejhpoxxq
ichejshejuq,hpejhzuphp qqjgychw njojs,hzenyjhoejht pfyjphw nrjsjqh gqjs
ejshpxao,hqjynfuojhfxuokhRsxgplchmuoojqhejshposxgbhgjfl,hposunbeojgjq
xrjshejshpeusmhznoejsphuhposuchyxflhxahejshtugjhoeuoheuqhauyyjghxghoej
xoejshpnqj,hugqhtxrjqhenphaufjhgjushejshqnyuojqhgxposnyp,hosugpmusjgo
uphuhiuo’phzngbkhPejhqsjzhuhyx qhisjuoehugqhpgxsojqhx ohoesx behejs
ojgpjhgxposnyp,hpousojq,hmsnfljqh mhejshpeusmhjus,hugqhm ohx ohejs
posxgb,hiyuflhynmhoxzusqphRsxgplc,huphoex behpejhzx yqhgnmhexyqhxahenp
pyjjrjkhI ohsjtjtijsngbhoejht ddyj,hpejhpexxlhnohugqhubunghijbug
sjpoyjppychpoutmngbhxgjhuaojshoejhxoejshejshpeumjychyjbpk

“W njo,hqusyngb,hw njo!”hejhpunq,hmuoongbhejshubunghxrjshejs
engq-w usojsp;hugqhznoehuhbyuqhpjgpjhoeuohenphtusjhzuphnghoejhijpo
mxppniyjhfxgqnonxg,hejhzjgohx ohxahoejhexspj-ixvk

Oejhtusj’phjvfnojtjgoheuqhngajfojqhRsxgplckhEjhajyohoeuohenphejusohzup
oesxiingb,hugqhoeuohej,hoxx,hynljhoejhtusj,hyxgbjqhoxhtxrj,hoxhinoj;hno
zuphixoehqsjuqa yhugqhqjynfnx pk

“Zjyy,hNhsjychxghcx ,hoejg,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhJgbynpetug;h“euya-mupohpnv
xghoejhbsx gqk”

“Uyyhsnbeo,”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetugkh“Xe,hzejsjhusjhcx hbxngb,htchyxsq?”
ejhupljqhp qqjgyc,h pngbhoejhonoyjh“tchyxsq,”hzenfehejheuqhpfusfjyc
jrjsh pjqhijaxsjk

Rsxgplchnghutudjtjgohsunpjqhenphejuq,hugqhpousjq,huphejhlgjzhexzhox
pousj,hgxohngoxhoejhJgbynpetug’phjcjp,hi ohuohenphaxsjejuq,hupox gqjq
uohoejhntmjsongjgfjhxahenphw jponxgkhI ohsjuyndngbhoeuohnghuplngbhoenp
oejhJgbynpetugheuqhijjghyxxlngbhuohenthgxohuphughjtmyxcjs,hi ohuphu
.xfljc,hejhugpzjsjq:

“N’rjhbxohoxhbxhoxhIscugplc’p;hNhpeuyyhijhextjhznoenghughex sk”

“ExzhxaojghN’thupljqhoeuohw jponxghoxquc!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hugqhej
iy pejq,huhoengbhzenfehsusjycheummjgjqhoxhentkhOejhJgbynpetughyxxljq
bsurjychuohent;hugq,huphoex behej,hoxx,hlgjzhzejsjhRsxgplchzuphbxngb,
ejhuqqjq:

“Oejhbsjuohoengb’phoxhljjmhw njohijaxsjhuhsufj,”hpunqhej;h“qxg’ohbjo
x ohxahojtmjshxsh mpjohuix ohugcoengbk”

“Uyyhsnbeo,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hptnyngb;hugqh. tmngbhngoxhenphfussnubj,
ejhoxyqhoejhtughoxhqsnrjhoxhMjojsexak

Ijaxsjhejheuqhqsnrjghtugchmufjphuzuc,hoejhquslhfyx qphoeuoheuqhijjg
oesjuojgngbhsunghuyyhquchisxlj,hugqhoejsjhzuphuhejurchqxzgmx shxahsungk

“Zeuohuhmnoc!”hoex beohRsxgplc,hm oongbh mhoejhsxxahxahoejhfussnubjk
“Nohzupht qqchijaxsj,hgxzhnohznyyhijhuhmjsajfohpzutmk”hUphejhpuohng
pxyno qjhnghoejhfyxpjqhfussnubj,hejhoxxlhx ohenphtxoejs’phyjoojshugq
enphisxoejs’phgxoj,hugqhsjuqhoejthoesx bek

Cjp,hnohzuphoejhputjhoengbhxrjshugqhxrjshubungkhJrjscxgj,henphtxoejs,
enphisxoejs,hjrjscxgjhoex beohanohoxhngojsajsjhnghoejhuaaunsphxahenp
ejusokhOenphngojsajsjgfjhusx pjqhnghenthuhajjyngbhxahugbscheuosjq—u
ajjyngbhejheuqhsusjychlgxzghijaxsjkh“Zeuohi pngjpphnphnohxahoejnsp?hZec
qxjphjrjscixqchajjyhfuyyjqh mxghoxhfxgfjsghentpjyahuix ohtj?hUgqhzechqx
oejchzxsschtjhpx?h. pohijfu pjhoejchpjjhoeuohoenphnphpxtjoengbhoejc
fug’oh gqjspougqkhNahnohzjsjhuhfxttxg,hr ybus,hzxsyqychngosnb j,hoejc
zx yqheurjhyjaohtjhuyxgjkhOejchajjyhoeuohoenphnphpxtjoengbhqnaajsjgo,
oeuohoenphnphgxohuhtjsjhmupontj,hoeuohoenphzxtughnphqjusjshoxhtjhoeug
ynajkhUgqhoenphnphngfxtmsjejgpniyj,hugqhoeuo’phzechnohuggxcphoejtk
Zeuojrjshx shqjpongchnphxshtuchij,hzjheurjhtuqjhnohx spjyrjp,hugqhzjhqx
gxohfxtmyunghxahno,”hejhpunq,hnghoejhzxsqh_zj_hynglngbhentpjyahznoe
Uggukh“Gx,hoejcht pohgjjqphojufeh phexzhoxhynrjkhOejcheurjg’ohughnqju
xahzeuoheummngjpphnp;hoejchqxg’ohlgxzhoeuohznoex ohx shyxrj,haxsh p
oejsjhnphgjnoejsheummngjpphgxsh geummngjpp—gxhynajhuohuyy,”hejhoex beok

Ejhzuphugbschznoehuyyhxahoejthaxshoejnshngojsajsjgfjh. pohijfu pjhej
ajyohnghenphpx yhoeuohoejc,huyyhoejpjhmjxmyj,hzjsjhsnbeokhEjhajyohoeuo
oejhyxrjhoeuohix gqhenthoxhUgguhzuphgxohuhtxtjgouschntm ypj,hzenfe
zx yqhmupp,huphzxsyqychngosnb jphqxhmupp,hyjurngbhgxhxoejshosufjphng
oejhynajhxahjnoejshi ohmyjupugohxsh gmyjupugohtjtxsnjpkhEjhajyohuyyhoej
oxso sjhxahenphxzghugqhejshmxpnonxg,huyyhoejhqnaanf yochoejsjhzuphaxs
oejt,hfxgpmnf x phuphoejchzjsjhnghoejhjcjhxahuyyhoejhzxsyq,hng
fxgfjuyngbhoejnshyxrj,hnghycngbhugqhqjfjnrngb;hugqhnghycngb,hqjfjnrngb,
ajnbgngb,hugqhfxgong uyychoenglngbhxahxoejsp,hzejghoejhmuppnxghoeuo
 gnojqhoejthzuphpxhngojgpjhoeuohoejchzjsjhixoehxiynrnx phxahjrjscoengb
jypjhi ohoejnshyxrjk

Ejhrnrnqychsjfuyyjqhuyyhoejhfxgpougoychsjf ssngbhngpougfjphxa
ngjrnouiyjhgjfjppnochaxshycngbhugqhqjfjno,hzenfehzjsjhpxhubungpohenp
guo suyhijgokhEjhsjfuyyjqhmusonf yusychrnrnqychoejhpeutjhejheuqhtxsj
oeughxgfjhqjojfojqhnghejshuohoenphgjfjppnochaxshycngbhugqhqjfjnokhUgq
ejhjvmjsnjgfjqhoejhposugbjhajjyngbhoeuoheuqhpxtjontjphfxtjh mxghent
pngfjhenphpjfsjohyxrjhaxshUggukhOenphzuphuhajjyngbhxahyxuoengbhaxs
pxtjoengb—zejoejshaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hxshaxshentpjya,hxshaxshoej
zexyjhzxsyq,hejhfx yqhgxoheurjhpunqkhI ohejhuyzucphqsxrjhuzuchoenp
posugbjhajjyngbkhGxz,hoxx,hejhpexxlhnohxaahugqhfxgong jqhoejhoesjuqhxa
enphoex beopk

“Cjp,hpejhzuph geummchijaxsj,hi ohmsx qhugqhuohmjufj;hugqhgxzhpej
fuggxohijhuohmjufjhugqhajjyhpjf sjhnghejshqnbgnoc,hoex behpejhqxjphgxo
pexzhnokhCjp,hzjht pohm ohughjgqhoxhno,”hejhqjfnqjqk

Ugqhaxshoejhanspohontjhoejhnqjuhfyjusychmsjpjgojqhnopjyahoeuohnohzup
jppjgonuyhoxhm ohughjgqhoxhoenphauypjhmxpnonxg,hugqhoejhpxxgjshoej
ijoojskh“Oesxzh mhjrjscoengb,hpejhugqhN,hugqhenqjhx spjyrjphpxtjzejsj
uyxgjhznoehx shyxrj,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyak


Feumojsh22

Oejhsunghqnqhgxohyupohyxgb,hugqhichoejhontjhRsxgplchussnrjq,henp
peuao-exspjhosxoongbhuoha yyhpmjjqhugqhqsubbngbhoejhosufj-exspjp
buyyxmngbhoesx behoejht q,hznoehoejnshsjngpheugbngbhyxxpj,hoejhp gheuq
mjjmjqhx ohubung,hoejhsxxaphxahoejhp ttjshrnyyuphugqhoejhxyqhyntjosjjp
nghoejhbusqjgphxghixoehpnqjphxahoejhmsngfnmuyhposjjophpmuslyjqhznoehzjo
isnyynugfj,hugqhasxthoejhoznbphfutjhuhmyjupugohqsnmhugqhasxthoejhsxxap
s pengbhposjutphxahzuojskhEjhoex beohgxhtxsjhxahoejhpexzjshpmxnyngbhoej
sufjhfx spj,hi ohzuphsj.xnfngbhgxzhoeuo—oeuglphoxhoejhsung—ejhzx yqhij
p sjhoxhangqhejshuohextjhugqhuyxgj,huphejhlgjzhoeuohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hzexheuqhyuojychsjo sgjqhasxthuhaxsjnbghzuojsngbhmyufj,
euqhgxohtxrjqhasxthMjojspi sbk

Exmngbhoxhangqhejshuyxgj,hRsxgplchuynbeojq,huphejhuyzucphqnq,hoxhurxnq
uoosufongbhuoojgonxg,hijaxsjhfsxppngbhoejhisnqbj,hugqhzuyljqhoxhoej
ex pjkhEjhqnqhgxohbxh mhoejhpojmphoxhoejhposjjohqxxs,hi ohzjgohngoxhoej
fx sok

“Euphcx shtupojshfxtj?”hejhupljqhuhbusqjgjsk

“Gx,hpnskhOejhtnposjpphnphuohextjkhI ohznyyhcx hmyjupjhbxhoxhoejhasxgo
qxxs;hoejsjhusjhpjsrugophoejsj,”hoejhbusqjgjshugpzjsjqkh“Oejc’yyhxmjg
oejhqxxsk”

“Gx,hN’yyhbxhnghasxthoejhbusqjgk”

Ugqhajjyngbhpuonpanjqhoeuohpejhzuphuyxgj,hugqhzugongbhoxhouljhejshic
p smsnpj,hpngfjhejheuqhgxohmsxtnpjqhoxhijhoejsjhoxquc,hugqhpejhzx yq
fjsoungychgxohjvmjfohenthoxhfxtjhijaxsjhoejhsufjp,hejhzuyljq,hexyqngb
enphpzxsqhugqhpojmmngbhfu onx pychxrjshoejhpugqchmuoe,hixsqjsjqhznoe
ayxzjsp,hoxhoejhojssufjhoeuohyxxljqhx oh mxghoejhbusqjgkhRsxgplchaxsbxo
gxzhuyyhoeuohejheuqhoex beohxghoejhzuchxahoejheusqpenmphugq
qnaanf yonjphxahoejnshmxpnonxgkhEjhoex beohxahgxoengbhi ohoeuohejhzx yq
pjjhejshqnsjfoyc,hgxohnghntubnguonxg,hi ohynrngb,huyyhxahejs,huphpej
zuphnghsjuynockhEjhzuph. pohbxngbhng,hpojmmngbhxghenphzexyjhaxxohpxhup
gxohoxhfsjul,h mhoejhzxsghpojmphxahoejhojssufj,hzejghejhp qqjgyc
sjtjtijsjqhzeuohejhuyzucphaxsbxo,hugqhzeuohfu pjqhoejhtxpohoxso sngb
pnqjhxahenphsjyuonxgphznoehejs,hejshpxghznoehenphw jponxgngb—exponyj,
uphejhaugfnjq—jcjpk

Oenphixchzuphtxsjhxaojghoeughugcxgjhjypjhuhfejflh mxghoejnshasjjqxtk
Zejghejhzuphmsjpjgo,hixoehRsxgplchugqhUgguhqnqhgxohtjsjychurxnq
pmjulngbhxahugcoengbhoeuohoejchfx yqhgxoheurjhsjmjuojqhijaxsjhjrjscxgj;
oejchqnqhgxohjrjghuyyxzhoejtpjyrjphoxhsjajshichengophoxhugcoengbhoej
ixchqnqhgxoh gqjspougqkhOejcheuqhtuqjhgxhubsjjtjgohuix ohoenp,hnoheuq
pjooyjqhnopjyakhOejchzx yqheurjhajyohnohzx gqngbhoejtpjyrjphoxhqjfjnrj
oejhfenyqkhNghenphmsjpjgfjhoejchouyljqhynljhufw ungougfjpkhI ohnghpmnoj
xahoenphfu onxg,hRsxgplchxaojghpuzhoejhfenyq’phngojgo,hijznyqjsjq
byugfjhanvjqh mxghent,hugqhuhposugbjhpecgjpp,h gfjsoungoc,huohxgjhontj
asnjgqyngjpp,huohugxoejs,hfxyqgjpphugqhsjpjsrj,hnghoejhixc’phtuggjshox
ent;huphoex behoejhfenyqhajyohoeuohijozjjghoenphtughugqhenphtxoejs
oejsjhjvnpojqhpxtjhntmxsougohixgq,hoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahzenfehejhfx yq
gxoh gqjspougqk

Uphuhaufo,hoejhixchqnqhajjyhoeuohejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhoenphsjyuonxg,
ugqhejhosnjqhmunga yyc,hugqhzuphgxohuiyjhoxhtuljhfyjushoxhentpjyahzeuo
ajjyngbhejhx beohoxheurjhaxshoenphtugkhZnoehuhfenyq’phljjghngpongfohaxs
jrjschtugnajpouonxghxahajjyngb,hejhpuzhqnpongfoychoeuohenphauoejs,henp
bxrjsgjpp,henphg spj,—uyyhqnqhgxohtjsjychqnpynljhRsxgplc,hi ohyxxljqhxg
enthznoehexssxshugqhurjspnxg,hoex behoejchgjrjshpunqhugcoengbhuix o
ent,hzenyjhenphtxoejshyxxljqhxghenthuphejshbsjuojpohasnjgqk

“Zeuohqxjphnohtjug?hZexhnphej?hExzhx beohNhoxhyxrjhent?hNahNhqxg’o
lgxz,hno’phtchau yo;hjnoejshN’thpo mnqhxshuhgu beochixc,”hoex beohoej
fenyqkhUgqhoenphzuphzeuohfu pjqhenphq inx p,hngw nsngb,hpxtjontjp
exponyj,hjvmsjppnxg,hugqhoejhpecgjpphugqh gfjsoungochzenfehRsxgplc
ax gqhpxhnslpxtjkhOenphfenyq’phmsjpjgfjhuyzucphugqhngauyyniychfuyyjqh m
nghRsxgplchoeuohposugbjhajjyngbhxahngjvmynfuiyjhyxuoengbhzenfehejheuq
jvmjsnjgfjqhxahyuojkhOenphfenyq’phmsjpjgfjhfuyyjqh mhixoehnghRsxgplc
ugqhnghUgguhuhajjyngbhulnghoxhoejhajjyngbhxahuhpunyxshzexhpjjphichoej
fxtmupphoeuohoejhqnsjfonxghnghzenfehejhnphpznaoychtxrngbhnphaushasxt
oejhsnbeohxgj,hi ohoeuohoxhussjpohenphtxonxghnphgxohnghenphmxzjs,hoeuo
jrjschngpougohnphfusscngbhentha soejshugqha soejshuzuc,hugqhoeuohox
uqtnohoxhentpjyahenphqjrnuonxghasxthoejhsnbeohqnsjfonxghnphoejhputjhup
uqtnoongbhenphfjsounghs ngk

Oenphfenyq,hznoehenphnggxfjgohx oyxxlh mxghynaj,hzuphoejhfxtmupphoeuo
pexzjqhoejthoejhmxngohoxhzenfehoejcheuqhqjmusojqhasxthzeuohoejchlgjz,
i ohqnqhgxohzugohoxhlgxzk

OenphontjhPjscxdeuhzuphgxohuohextj,hugqhpejhzuphfxtmyjojychuyxgjkhPej
zuphpnoongbhxghoejhojssufjhzunongbhaxshoejhsjo sghxahejshpxg,hzexheuq
bxgjhx ohaxshenphzuylhugqhijjghfu beohnghoejhsungkhPejheuqhpjgohu
tugpjsrugohugqhuhtunqhx ohoxhyxxlhaxshentkhQsjppjqhnghuhzenojhbxzg,
qjjmychjtisxnqjsjq,hpejhzuphpnoongbhnghuhfxsgjshxahoejhojssufjhijengq
pxtjhayxzjsp,hugqhqnqhgxohejushentkhIjgqngbhejshf sychiyuflhejuq,hpej
msjppjqhejshaxsjejuqhubungpohuhfxxyhzuojsngbhmxohoeuohpoxxqhxghoej
musumjo,hugqhixoehejshyxrjycheugqp,hznoehoejhsngbphejhlgjzhpxhzjyy,
fyupmjqhoejhmxokhOejhiju ochxahejshzexyjhanb sj,hejshejuq,hejshgjfl,
ejsheugqp,hpos flhRsxgplchjrjschontjhuphpxtjoengbhgjzhugqh gjvmjfojqk
Ejhpoxxqhponyy,hbudngbhuohejshnghjfpoupckhI o,hqnsjfoychejhzx yqheurj
tuqjhuhpojmhoxhfxtjhgjusjshoxhejs,hpejhzuphuzusjhxahenphmsjpjgfj,
m pejqhuzuchoejhzuojsngbhmxo,hugqho sgjqhejshay pejqhaufjhoxzusqphentk

“Zeuo’phoejhtuoojs?hCx husjhnyy?”hejhpunqhoxhejshnghAsjgfe,hbxngbh mhox
ejskhEjhzx yqheurjhs ghoxhejs,hi ohsjtjtijsngbhoeuohoejsjhtnbeohij
pmjfouoxsp,hejhyxxljqhsx gqhoxzusqphoejhiuyfxgchqxxs,hugqhsjqqjgjqhu
ynooyj,huphejhuyzucphsjqqjgjq,hajjyngbhoeuohejheuqhoxhijhuasunqhugqhij
xghenphb usqk

“Gx,hN’thw nojhzjyy,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh mhugqhmsjppngbhenp
x oposjofejqheugqhonbeoyckh“Nhqnqhgxohjvmjfohkkkhoejjk”

“Tjsfc!hzeuohfxyqheugqp!”hejhpunqk

“Cx hpousoyjqhtj,”hpejhpunqkh“N’thuyxgj,hugqhjvmjfongbhPjscxdeu;hej’p
x ohaxshuhzuyl;hoejc’yyhfxtjhnghasxthoenphpnqjk”

I o,hnghpmnojhxahejshjaaxsophoxhijhfuyt,hejshynmphzjsjhw nrjsngbk

“Axsbnrjhtjhaxshfxtngb,hi ohNhfx yqg’ohmupphoejhquchznoex ohpjjngb
cx ,”hejhzjgohxg,hpmjulngbhAsjgfe,huphejhuyzucphqnqhoxhurxnqh pngbhoej
ponaahS ppnughmy suyhaxst,hpxhntmxppniychasnbnqhijozjjghoejt,hugqhoej
qugbjsx pychngontuojhpngb yusk

“Axsbnrjhcx ?hN’thpxhbyuq!”

“I ohcx ’sjhnyyhxshzxssnjq,”hejhzjgohxg,hgxohyjoongbhbxhejsheugqphugq
ijgqngbhxrjshejskh“Zeuohzjsjhcx hoenglngbhxa?”

“Uyzucphoejhputjhoengb,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhptnyjk

Pejhpmxljhoejhos oekhNahjrjshuohugchtxtjgohpejheuqhijjghupljqhzeuohpej
zuphoenglngbhxa,hpejhfx yqheurjhugpzjsjqhos yc:hxahoejhputjhoengb,hxa
ejsheummngjpphugqhejsh geummngjppkhPejhzuphoenglngb,h. pohzejghejhfutj
 mxghejs,hxahoenp:hzechzuphno,hpejhzxgqjsjq,hoeuohoxhxoejsp,hoxhIjopc
(pejhlgjzhxahejshpjfsjohfxggjfonxghznoehO peljrnofe)hnohzuphuyyhjupc,
zenyjhoxhejshnohzuphp fehoxso sj?hOxquchoenphoex beohbungjqhpmjfnuy
mxnbgugfchasxthfjsounghxoejshfxgpnqjsuonxgpkhPejhupljqhenthuix ohoej
sufjpkhEjhugpzjsjqhejshw jponxgp,hugq,hpjjngbhoeuohpejhzuphubnouojq,
oscngbhoxhfuythejs,hejhijbughojyyngbhejshnghoejhpntmyjpohoxgjhoej
qjounyphxahenphmsjmusuonxgphaxshoejhsufjpk

“Ojyyhenthxshgxohojyyhent?”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhngoxhenphw njo,
uaajfonxguojhjcjpkh“Ejhnphpxheummc,hpxhuipxsijqhnghenphsufjphoeuohej
zxg’oh gqjspougqhuphejhx beo,hejhzxg’oh gqjspougqhuyyhoejhbsurnochxa
oenphaufohoxh pk”

“I ohcx heurjg’ohoxyqhtjhzeuohcx hzjsjhoenglngbhxahzejghNhfutjhng,”hej
punq,hngojss mongbhenphgussuonrj;h“myjupjhojyyhtj!”

Pejhqnqhgxohugpzjs,hugq,hijgqngbhejshejuqhuhynooyj,hpejhyxxljq
ngw nsngbychuohenthasxth gqjshejshisxzp,hejshjcjphpengngbh gqjshoejns
yxgbhyupejpkhEjsheugqhpexxlhuphnohmyucjqhznoehuhyjuahpejheuqhmnfljqkhEj
puzhno,hugqhenphaufjhjvmsjppjqhoeuoh oojshp i.jfonxg,hoeuohpyurnpe
qjrxonxg,hzenfeheuqhqxgjhpxht fehoxhznghejsk

“NhpjjhpxtjoengbheupheummjgjqkhQxhcx hp mmxpjhNhfughijhuohmjufj,
lgxzngbhcx heurjhuhosx iyjhNhuthgxohpeusngb?hOjyyhtj,haxshBxq’phpulj,”
ejhsjmjuojqhntmyxsngbyck

“Cjp,hNhpeug’ohijhuiyjhoxhaxsbnrjhenthnahejhqxjphgxohsjuyndjhuyyhoej
bsurnochxahnokhIjoojshgxohojyy;hzechm ohenthoxhoejhmsxxa?”hpejhoex beo,
ponyyhpousngbhuohenthnghoejhputjhzuc,hugqhajjyngbhoejheugqhoeuohejyq
oejhyjuahzuphosjtiyngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjk

“AxshBxq’phpulj!”hejhsjmjuojq,houlngbhejsheugqk

“PeuyyhNhojyyhcx ?”

“Cjp,hcjp,hcjpkkkk”

“N’thznoehfenyq,”hpejhpunq,hpxaoychugqhqjynijsuojyckhOejhyjuahnghejs
eugqhpexxlhtxsjhrnxyjgoyc,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohouljhejshjcjphxaahent,
zuofengbhexzhejhzx yqhouljhnokhEjho sgjqhzenoj,hzx yqheurjhpunq
pxtjoengb,hi ohpoxmmjq;hejhqsxmmjqhejsheugq,hugqhenphejuqhpuglhxghenp
isjupokh“Cjp,hejhsjuyndjphuyyhoejhbsurnochxahno,”hpejhoex beo,hugq
bsuoja yychpejhmsjppjqhenpheugqk

I ohpejhzuphtnpouljghnghoenglngbhejhsjuyndjqhoejhbsurnochxahoejhaufohup
pej,huhzxtug,hsjuyndjqhnokhXghejusngbhno,hejhajyohfxtjh mxghenthznoe
ojgaxyqhngojgpnochoeuohposugbjhajjyngbhxahyxuoengbhxahpxtjxgjkhI ohuo
oejhputjhontj,hejhajyohoeuohoejho sgngb-mxngohejheuqhijjghyxgbngbhaxs
euqhfxtjhgxz;hoeuohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhbxhxghfxgfjuyngbhoengbphasxt
ejshe piugq,hugqhnohzuphngjrnouiyjhnghxgjhzuchxshugxoejshoeuohoejc
pex yqhpxxghm ohughjgqhoxhoejnsh gguo suyhmxpnonxgkhI o,hijpnqjphoeuo,
ejshjtxonxghmecpnfuyychuaajfojqhenthnghoejhputjhzuckhEjhyxxljqhuohejs
znoehuhyxxlhxahp itnppnrjhojgqjsgjpp,hlnppjqhejsheugq,hbxoh m,hugq,hng
pnyjgfj,hmufjqh mhugqhqxzghoejhojssufjk

“Cjp,”hejhpunq,hbxngbh mhoxhejshsjpxy ojyckh“Gjnoejshcx hgxshNheurj
yxxljqhxghx shsjyuonxgphuphuhmuppngbhut pjtjgo,hugqhgxzhx shauojhnp
pjuyjqkhNohnphuipxy ojychgjfjppuschoxhm ohughjgq”—ejhyxxljqhsx gqhuphej
pmxlj—“oxhoejhqjfjmonxghnghzenfehzjhusjhynrngbk”

“M ohughjgq?hExzhm ohughjgq,hUyjvjc?”hpejhpunqhpxaoyck

Pejhzuphfuytjshgxz,hugqhejshaufjhynbeojqh mhznoehuhojgqjshptnyjk

“Yjurjhcx she piugqhugqhtuljhx shynajhxgjk”

“Nohnphxgjhuphnohnp,”hpejhugpzjsjq,hpfusfjychu qniyck

“Cjp,hi ohuyoxbjoejs;huyoxbjoejsk”

“I ohexz,hUyjvjc,hojyyhtjhexz?”hpejhpunqhnghtjyugfexychtxfljschuohoej
exmjyjppgjpphxahejshxzghmxpnonxgkh“Nphoejsjhugchzuchx ohxahp fehu
mxpnonxg?hUthNhgxohoejhznajhxahtche piugq?”

“Oejsjhnphuhzuchx ohxahjrjschmxpnonxgkhZjht pohouljhx shyngj,”hejhpunqk
“Ugcoengb’phijoojshoeughoejhmxpnonxghnghzenfehcx ’sjhynrngbkhXahfx spj,
Nhpjjhexzhcx hoxso sjhcx spjyahxrjshjrjscoengb—oejhzxsyqhugqhcx shpxg
ugqhcx she piugqk”

“Xe,hgxohxrjshtche piugq,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhw njohptnyjkh“Nhqxg’ohlgxz
ent,hNhqxg’ohoenglhxahentkhEjhqxjpg’ohjvnpok”

“Cx ’sjhgxohpmjulngbhpngfjsjyckhNhlgxzhcx khCx hzxsschuix ohenthoxxk”

“Xe,hejhqxjpg’ohjrjghlgxz,”hpejhpunq,hugqhp qqjgychuhexohay pehfutj
xrjshejshaufj;hejshfejjlp,hejshisxz,hejshgjflhfsntpxgjq,hugqhojusphxa
peutjhfutjhngoxhejshjcjpkh“I ohzjhzxg’ohouylhxahentk”


Feumojsh23

Rsxgplcheuqhpjrjsuyhontjphuysjuqc,hoex behgxohpxhsjpxy ojychuphgxz,
osnjqhoxhisngbhejshoxhfxgpnqjshoejnshmxpnonxg,hugqhjrjschontjhejheuq
ijjghfxgasxgojqhichoejhputjhp mjsanfnuynochugqhosnrnuynochznoehzenfe
pejhtjohenphummjuyhgxzkhNohzuphuphoex behoejsjhzjsjhpxtjoengbhnghoenp
zenfehpejhfx yqhgxohxshzx yqhgxohaufj,huphoex behqnsjfoychpejhijbughox
pmjulhxahoenp,hpej,hoejhsjuyhUggu,hsjosjuojqhpxtjexzhngoxhejspjya,hugq
ugxoejshposugbjhugqh guffx gouiyjhzxtughfutjhx o,hzexthejhqnqhgxohyxrj,
ugqhzexthejhajusjq,hugqhzexhzuphnghxmmxpnonxghoxhentkhI ohoxquchejhzup
sjpxyrjqhoxheurjhnohx ok

“Zejoejshejhlgxzphxshgxo,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hnghenph p uyhw njohugq
sjpxy ojhoxgj,h“oeuo’phgxoengbhoxhqxhznoeh pkhZjhfuggxohkkkhcx hfuggxo
pouchynljhoenp,hjpmjfnuyychgxzk”

“Zeuo’phoxhijhqxgj,huffxsqngbhoxhcx ?”hpejhupljqhznoehoejhputj
asnrxyx phnsxgckhPejhzexheuqhpxhajusjqhejhzx yqhouljhejshfxgqnonxghoxx
ynbeoychzuphgxzhrjvjqhznoehenthaxshqjq fngbhasxthnohoejhgjfjppnochxa
oulngbhpxtjhpojmk

“Ojyyhenthjrjscoengb,hugqhyjurjhentk”

“Rjschzjyy,hyjoh php mmxpjhNhqxhoeuo,”hpejhpunqkh“Qxhcx hlgxzhzeuohoej
sjp yohxahoeuohzx yqhij?hNhfughojyyhcx hnohuyyhijaxsjeugq,”hugqhu
znfljqhynbeohbyjutjqhnghejshjcjp,hoeuoheuqhijjghpxhpxaohuhtng oj
ijaxsjkh“‘Je,hcx hyxrjhugxoejshtug,hugqheurjhjgojsjqhngoxhfsntnguy
ngosnb jphznoehent?’”h(Tntnflngbhejshe piugq,hpejhoesjzhughjtmeupnphxg
oejhzxsqh“fsntnguy,”huphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqk)h“‘Nhzusgjqhcx hxa
oejhsjp yophnghoejhsjynbnx p,hoejhfnrny,hugqhoejhqxtjponfhsjyuonxgkhCx 
eurjhgxohynpojgjqhoxhtjkhGxzhNhfuggxohyjohcx hqnpbsufjhtchgutj,—’”h“ugq
tchpxg,”hpejheuqhtjugohoxhpuc,hi ohuix ohejshpxghpejhfx yqhgxo
.jpo,—“‘qnpbsufjhtchgutj,hugq’—ugqhtxsjhnghoejhputjhpocyj,”hpejhuqqjqk
“Nghbjgjsuyhojstp,hej’yyhpuchnghenphxaanfnuyhtuggjs,hugqhznoehuyy
qnpongfogjpphugqhmsjfnpnxg,hoeuohejhfuggxohyjohtjhbx,hi ohznyyhouljhuyy
tjup sjphnghenphmxzjshoxhmsjrjgohpfugquykhUgqhejhznyyhfuytychugq
m gfo uyychufohnghuffxsqugfjhznoehenphzxsqpkhOeuo’phzeuohznyyheummjgk
Ej’phgxohuhtug,hi ohuhtufengj,hugqhuhpmnoja yhtufengjhzejghej’phugbsc,”
pejhuqqjq,hsjfuyyngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuphpejhpmxlj,hznoehuyyhoej
mjf ynusnonjphxahenphanb sjhugqhtuggjshxahpmjulngb,hugqhsjflxgngb
ubungpohenthjrjschqjajfohpejhfx yqhangqhnghent,hpxaojgngbhgxoengbhaxs
oejhbsjuohzsxgbhpejhejspjyahzuphqxngbhentk

“I o,hUggu,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hnghuhpxaohugqhmjsp upnrjhrxnfj,hoscngbhox
pxxoejhejs,h“zjhuipxy ojycht po,hugczuc,hojyyhent,hugqhoejghijhb nqjq
ichoejhyngjhejhouljpk”

“Zeuo,hs ghuzuc?”

“Ugqhzechgxohs ghuzuc?hNhqxg’ohpjjhexzhzjhfughljjmhxghynljhoenpkhUgq
gxohaxshtchpulj—Nhpjjhoeuohcx hp aajsk”

“Cjp,hs ghuzuc,hugqhijfxtjhcx shtnposjpp,”hpejhpunqhugbsnyck

“Uggu,”hejhpunq,hznoehsjmsxufea yhojgqjsgjppk

“Cjp,”hpejhzjgohxg,h“ijfxtjhcx shtnposjpp,hugqhfxtmyjojhoejhs ng
xakkkk”

Ubunghpejhzx yqheurjhpunqh“tchpxg,”hi ohpejhfx yqhgxoh oojshoeuohzxsqk

Rsxgplchfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhexzhpej,hznoehejshposxgbhugqhos oea y
guo sj,hfx yqhjgq sjhoenphpouojhxahqjfjno,hugqhgxohyxgbhoxhbjohx ohxa
nokhI ohejhqnqhgxohp pmjfohoeuohoejhfenjahfu pjhxahnohzuphoej
zxsq—_pxg_,hzenfehpejhfx yqhgxohisngbhejspjyahoxhmsxgx gfjkhZejghpej
oex beohxahejshpxg,hugqhenpha o sjhuoono qjhoxhenphtxoejs,hzexheuq
uiugqxgjqhenphauoejs,hpejhajyohp fehojssxshuohzeuohpejheuqhqxgj,hoeuo
pejhfx yqhgxohaufjhno;hi o,hynljhuhzxtug,hfx yqhxgychoschoxhfxtaxso
ejspjyahznoehycngbhupp sugfjphoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqhsjtunghuphnohuyzucp
euqhijjg,hugqhoeuohnohzuphmxppniyjhoxhaxsbjohoejhajusa yhw jponxghxa
exzhnohzx yqhijhznoehejshpxgk

“Nhijbhcx ,hNhjgosjuohcx ,”hpejhpunqhp qqjgyc,houlngbhenpheugq,hugq
pmjulngbhnghw nojhuhqnaajsjgohoxgj,hpngfjsjhugqhojgqjs,h“gjrjshpmjulhox
tjhxahoeuo!”

“I o,hUggukkkk”

“GjrjskhYjurjhnohoxhtjkhNhlgxzhuyyhoejhiupjgjpp,huyyhoejhexssxshxahtc
mxpnonxg;hi ohno’phgxohpxhjupchoxhussugbjhuphcx hoenglkhUgqhyjurjhnohox
tj,hugqhqxhzeuohNhpuckhGjrjshpmjulhoxhtjhxahnokhQxhcx hmsxtnpjhtj?kkk
Gx,hgx,hmsxtnpj!kkk”

“Nhmsxtnpjhjrjscoengb,hi ohNhfug’ohijhuohmjufj,hjpmjfnuyychuaojshzeuo
cx heurjhoxyqhtjkhNhfug’ohijhuohmjufj,hzejghcx hfug’ohijhuohmjufjkkkk”

“N?”hpejhsjmjuojqkh“Cjp,hNhuthzxssnjqhpxtjontjp;hi ohoeuohznyyhmupp,hna
cx hznyyhgjrjshouylhuix ohoenpkhZejghcx houylhuix ohno—no’phxgychoejg
nohzxssnjphtjk”

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hejhpunqk

“Nhlgxz,”hpejhngojss mojqhent,h“exzheusqhnohnphaxshcx shos oea yhguo sj
oxhynj,hugqhNhbsnjrjhaxshcx khNhxaojghoenglhoeuohcx heurjhs ngjqhcx s
zexyjhynajhaxshtjk”

“Nhzuph. pohoenglngbhoejhrjschputjhoengb,”hejhpunq;h“exzhfx yqhcx 
pufsnanfjhjrjscoengbhaxshtchpulj?hNhfug’ohaxsbnrjhtcpjyahoeuohcx ’sj
 geummc!”

“Nh geummc?”hpejhpunq,hfxtngbhfyxpjshoxhent,hugqhyxxlngbhuohenthznoehug
jfpouonfhptnyjhxahyxrjkh“Nhuthynljhuhe gbschtughzexheuphijjghbnrjg
axxqkhEjhtuchijhfxyq,hugqhqsjppjqhnghsubp,hugqhupeutjq,hi ohejhnphgxo
 geummckhNh geummc?hGx,hoenphnphtch geummngjppkkkk”

Pejhfx yqhejushoejhpx gqhxahejshpxg’phrxnfjhfxtngbhoxzusqphoejt,hugq
byugfngbhpznaoychsx gqhoejhojssufj,hpejhbxoh mhntm ypnrjyckhEjshjcjp
byxzjqhznoehoejhansjhejhlgjzhpxhzjyy;hznoehuhsumnqhtxrjtjgohpejhsunpjq
ejshyxrjycheugqp,hfxrjsjqhznoehsngbp,hoxxlhenphejuq,hyxxljqhuhyxgbhyxxl
ngoxhenphaufj,hugq,hm oongbh mhejshaufjhznoehptnyngb,hmusojqhynmp,
pznaoychlnppjqhenphtx oehugqhixoehjcjp,hugqhm pejqhenthuzuckhPejhzx yq
eurjhbxgj,hi ohejhejyqhejshiuflk

“Zejg?”hejht st sjqhnghuhzenpmjs,hbudngbhnghjfpoupchuohejsk

“Oxgnbeo,huohxgjhx’fyxfl,”hpejhzenpmjsjq,hugq,hznoehuhejurchpnbe,hpej
zuyljqhznoehejshynbeo,hpznaohpojmhoxhtjjohejshpxgk

Pjscxdeuheuqhijjghfu beohichoejhsunghnghoejhinbhbusqjg,hugqhejhugqhenp
g spjheuqhouljghpejyojshnghughusixsk

“Zjyy,h_u hsjrxns_,”hpejhpunqhoxhRsxgplckh“Nht pohpxxghijhbjoongbhsjuqc
axshoejhsufjpkhIjopchmsxtnpjqhoxhajofehtjk”

Rsxgplc,hyxxlngbhuohenphzuofe,hzjgohuzuche ssnjqyck


Feumojsh24

ZejghRsxgplchyxxljqhuohenphzuofehxghoejhLusjgngp’hiuyfxgc,hejhzuphpx
bsjuoychubnouojqhugqhyxpohnghenphoex beophoeuohejhpuzhoejhanb sjphxg
oejhzuofe’phaufj,hi ohfx yqhgxohouljhnghzeuohontjhnohzupkhEjhfutjhx o
xghoxhoejhenbesxuqhugqhzuyljq,hmnflngbhenphzuchfusja yychoesx behoej
t q,hoxhenphfussnubjkhEjhzuphpxhfxtmyjojychuipxsijqhnghenphajjyngbhaxs
Uggu,hoeuohejhqnqhgxohjrjghoenglhzeuohx’fyxflhnohzup,hugqhzejoejshej
euqhontjhoxhbxhoxhIscugplc’pkhEjheuqhyjaohent,huphxaojgheummjgp,hxgyc
oejhjvojsguyhauf yochxahtjtxsc,hoeuohmxngophx ohjufehpojmhxgjheuphox
oulj,hxgjhuaojshoejhxoejskhEjhzjgoh mhoxhenphfxufetug,hzexhzuphqxdngb
xghoejhixvhnghoejhpeuqxz,huysjuqchyjgboejgngb,hxahuhoenflhyntjosjj;hej
uqtnsjqhoejhpenaongbhfyx qphxahtnqbjphfnsfyngbhxrjshoejhexohexspjp,
ugq,hzulngbhoejhfxufetug,hejh. tmjqhngoxhoejhfussnubj,hugqhoxyqhenthox
qsnrjhoxhIscugplc’pkhNohzuphxgychuaojshqsnrngbhgjusychanrjhtnyjphoeuo
ejheuqhp aanfnjgoychsjfxrjsjqhentpjyahoxhyxxlhuohenphzuofe,hugqhsjuyndj
oeuohnohzupheuya-mupohanrj,hugqhejhzuphyuojk

Oejsjhzjsjhpjrjsuyhsufjphanvjqhaxshoeuohquc:hoejhTx gojqhB usqp’hsufj,
oejghoejhxaanfjsp’htnyj-ugq-u-euyahsufj,hoejghoejhoesjj-tnyjhsufj,hugq
oejghoejhsufjhaxshzenfehejhzuphjgojsjqkhEjhfx yqhponyyhijhnghontjhaxs
enphsufj,hi ohnahejhzjgohoxhIscugplc’phejhfx yqhxgych. pohijhnghontj,
ugqhejhzx yqhussnrjhzejghoejhzexyjhxahoejhfx sohzx yqhijhnghoejns
myufjpkhOeuohzx yqhijhuhmnockhI ohejheuqhmsxtnpjqhIscugplchoxhfxtj,hugq
pxhejhqjfnqjqhoxhqsnrjhxg,hojyyngbhoejhfxufetughgxohoxhpmusjhoej
exspjpk

EjhsjufejqhIscugplc’p,hpmjgohanrjhtng ojphoejsj,hugqhbuyyxmjqhiuflk
OenphsumnqhqsnrjhfuytjqhentkhUyyhoeuohzuphmunga yhnghenphsjyuonxgphznoe
Uggu,huyyhoejhajjyngbhxahngqjangnojgjpphyjaohichoejnshfxgrjspuonxg,heuq
pynmmjqhx ohxahenphtngqkhEjhzuphoenglngbhgxzhznoehmyjup sjhugq
jvfnojtjgohxahoejhsufj,hxahenphijngbhugcexz,hnghontj,hugqhgxzhugqhoejg
oejhoex beohxahoejhiynppa yhngojsrnjzhuzunongbhenthoeuohgnbeohayupejq
ufsxpphenphntubnguonxghynljhuhayutngbhynbeok

Oejhjvfnojtjgohxahoejhummsxufengbhsufjhbungjqh mxghenthuphejhqsxrj
a soejshugqha soejshngoxhoejhuotxpmejsjhxahoejhsufjp,hxrjsoulngb
fussnubjphqsnrngbh mhasxthoejhp ttjshrnyyuphxshx ohxahMjojspi sbk

Uohenphw usojsphgxhxgjhzuphyjaohuohextj;huyyhzjsjhuohoejhsufjp,hugqhenp
ruyjohzuphyxxlngbhx ohaxshenthuohoejhbuojkhZenyjhejhzuphfeugbngbhenp
fyxoejp,henphruyjohoxyqhenthoeuohoejhpjfxgqhsufjheuqhijb ghuysjuqc,
oeuohuhyxohxahbjgoyjtjgheuqhijjghoxhuplhaxshent,hugqhuhixcheuqhoznfj
s gh mhasxthoejhpouiyjpkhQsjppngbhznoex ohe ssch(ejhgjrjshe ssnjq
entpjya,hugqhgjrjshyxpohenphpjya-mxppjppnxg),hRsxgplchqsxrjhoxhoej
pejqpkhAsxthoejhpejqphejhfx yqhpjjhuhmjsajfohpjuhxahfussnubjp,hugq
mjxmyjhxghaxxo,hpxyqnjsphp ssx gqngbhoejhsufjhfx spj,hugqhmurnynxgp
pzustngbhznoehmjxmyjkhOejhpjfxgqhsufjhzuphummusjgoychbxngbhxg,haxsh. po
uphejhzjgohngoxhoejhpejqphejhejusqhuhijyyhsngbngbkhBxngbhoxzusqphoej
pouiyj,hejhtjohoejhzenoj-yjbbjqhfejpog o,hTuexong’phByuqnuoxs,hijngb
yjqhoxhoejhsufj-fx spjhnghuhiy jhaxsubjhexspjfyxoe,hznoehzeuohyxxljq
ynljhe bjhjusphjqbjqhznoehiy jk

“Zejsj’phFxsq?”hejhupljqhoejhpouiyj-ixck

“Nghoejhpouiyj,hm oongbhxghoejhpuqqyjk”

Nghoejhxmjghexspj-ixvhpoxxqhAsx -Asx ,hpuqqyjqhsjuqckhOejchzjsjh. po
bxngbhoxhyjuqhejshx ok

“N’thgxohoxxhyuoj?”

“Uyyhsnbeo!hUyyhsnbeo!”hpunqhoejhJgbynpetug;h“qxg’oh mpjohcx spjya!”

Rsxgplchxgfjhtxsjhoxxlhnghnghxgjhbyugfjhoejhjvw npnojhyngjphxahenp
aurxsnojhtusj;hzexhzuphw nrjsngbhuyyhxrjs,hugqhznoehughjaaxsohejhoxsj
entpjyahasxthoejhpnbeohxahejs,hugqhzjgohx ohxahoejhpouiyjkhEjhzjgo
oxzusqphoejhmurnynxgphuohoejhtxpohaurxsuiyjhtxtjgohaxshjpfumngb
uoojgonxgkhOejhtnyj-ugq-u-euyahsufjhzuph. pohangnpengb,hugqhuyyhjcjp
zjsjhanvjqhxghoejhexspj-b usqhnghasxgohugqhoejhynbeohe ppushijengq,
 sbngbhoejnshexspjphxghznoehuhyupohjaaxsohfyxpjhoxhoejhznggngbhmxpok
Asxthoejhfjgojshugqhx opnqjhxahoejhsngbhuyyhzjsjhfsxzqngbhoxhoej
znggngbhmxpo,hugqhuhbsx mhxahpxyqnjsphugqhxaanfjsphxahoejhexspj-b usqp
zjsjhpex ongbhyx qychoejnshqjynbeohuohoejhjvmjfojqhosn tmehxahoejns
xaanfjshugqhfxtsuqjkhRsxgplchtxrjqhngoxhoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhfsxzq
 ggxonfjq,huytxpohuohoejhrjschtxtjgohzejghoejhijyyhsugbhuohoejhangnpe
xahoejhsufj,hugqhoejhouyy,ht qpmuoojsjqhexspj-b usqhzexhfutjhnghanspo,
ijgqngbhxrjshoejhpuqqyj,hyjohbxhoejhsjngphxahenphmugongbhbsuchexspj
oeuohyxxljqhquslhznoehpzjuok

Oejhexspj,hponaajgngbhx ohnophyjbp,hznoehughjaaxsohpoxmmjqhnophsumnq
fx spj,hugqhoejhxaanfjshxahoejhexspj-b usqphyxxljqhsx gqhenthynljhuhtug
zulngbh mhasxthuhejurchpyjjm,hugqh. pohtugubjqhoxhptnyjkhUhfsxzqhxa
asnjgqphugqhx opnqjsphmsjppjqhsx gqhentk

Rsxgplchngojgonxguyychurxnqjqhoeuohpjyjfohfsxzqhxahoejh mmjshzxsyq,
zenfehzuphtxrngbhugqhouylngbhznoehqnpfsjjohasjjqxthijaxsjhoej
murnynxgpkhEjhlgjzhoeuohTuqutjhLusjgnguhzuphoejsj,hugqhIjopc,hugqhenp
isxoejs’phznaj,hugqhejhm smxpjychqnqhgxohbxhgjushoejthaxshajushxa
pxtjoengbhqnposufongbhenphuoojgonxgkhI ohejhzuphfxgong uyychtjohugq
poxmmjqhichufw ungougfjp,hzexhoxyqhenthuix ohoejhmsjrnx phsufjp,hugq
ljmohuplngbhenthzechejhzuphpxhyuojk

Uohoejhontjhzejghoejhsufjspheuqhoxhbxhoxhoejhmurnynxghoxhsjfjnrjhoej
msndjp,hugqhuyyhuoojgonxghzuphqnsjfojqhoxhoeuohmxngo,hRsxgplc’phjyqjs
isxoejs,hUyjvugqjs,huhfxyxgjyhznoehejurchasngbjqhjmu yjop,hfutjh mhox
entkhEjhzuphgxohouyy,hoex behuphisxuqychi nyohuphUyjvjc,hugqheugqpxtjs
ugqhsxpnjshoeughej;hejheuqhuhsjqhgxpj,hugqhughxmjg,hqs gljg-yxxlngb
aufjk

“Qnqhcx hbjohtchgxoj?”hejhpunqkh“Oejsj’phgjrjshugchangqngbhcx k”

UyjvugqjshRsxgplc,hnghpmnojhxahoejhqnppxy ojhynaj,hugqhnghjpmjfnuyhoej
qs gljgheuinop,haxshzenfehejhzuphgxoxsnx p,hzuphw nojhxgjhxahoejhfx so
fnsfyjk

Gxz,huphejhouyljqhoxhenphisxoejshxahuhtuoojshix gqhoxhijhjvfjjqngbyc
qnpubsjjuiyjhoxhent,hlgxzngbhoeuohoejhjcjphxahtugchmjxmyjhtnbeohij
anvjqh mxghent,hejhljmohuhptnyngbhfx gojgugfj,huphoex behejhzjsj
.jpongbhznoehenphisxoejshuix ohpxtjoengbhxahynooyjhtxtjgok

“Nhbxohno,hugqhNhsjuyychfug’ohtuljhx ohzeuoh_cx _husjhzxsscngbhcx spjya
uix o,”hpunqhUyjvjck

“N’thzxsscngbhtcpjyahijfu pjhoejhsjtuslheuph. pohijjghtuqjhoxhtjhoeuo
cx hzjsjg’ohejsj,hugqhoeuohcx hzjsjhpjjghnghMjojsexahxghTxgquck”

“Oejsjhusjhtuoojsphzenfehxgychfxgfjsghoexpjhqnsjfoychngojsjpojqhng
oejt,hugqhoejhtuoojshcx husjhpxhzxssnjqhuix ohnpkkkk”

“Cjp,hi ohnahpx,hcx htuchuphzjyyhf ohoejhpjsrnfjkkkk”

“Nhijbhcx hgxohoxhtjqqyj,hugqhoeuo’phuyyhNheurjhoxhpuck”

UyjvjchRsxgplc’phasxzgngbhaufjho sgjqhzenoj,hugqhenphmsxtngjgohyxzjs
.uzhw nrjsjq,hzenfeheummjgjqhsusjychznoehentkhIjngbhuhtughxahrjschzust
ejuso,hejhzuphpjyqxthugbsc;hi ohzejghejhzuphugbsc,hugqhzejghenphfeng
w nrjsjq,hoejg,huphUyjvugqjshRsxgplchlgjz,hejhzuphqugbjsx pkhUyjvugqjs
Rsxgplchptnyjqhbunyck

“Nhxgychzugojqhoxhbnrjhcx hTxoejs’phyjoojskhUgpzjshno,hugqhqxg’ohzxssc
uix ohugcoengbh. pohijaxsjhoejhsufjkh_Ixggjhfeugfj,_”hejhuqqjq,hptnyngb
ugqhejhtxrjqhuzuchasxthentkhI ohuaojshenthugxoejshasnjgqychbsjjongb
isx beohRsxgplchoxhuhpougqponyyk

“Pxhcx hzxg’ohsjfxbgndjhcx shasnjgqp!hExzhusjhcx ,h_txghfejs?_”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphfxgpmnf x pychisnyynugohnghoejhtnqpohxahuyyhoej
Mjojspi sbhisnyynugfjhuphejhzuphnghTxpfxz,henphaufjhsxpc,hugqhenp
zenpljsphpyjjlhugqhbyxppckh“Nhfutjh mhcjpojsquc,hugqhN’thqjynbeojqhoeuo
Nhpeuyyhpjjhcx shosn tmekhZejghpeuyyhzjhtjjo?”

“Fxtjhoxtxssxzhoxhoejhtjppsxxt,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hugqhpw jjdngbhenthichoej
pyjjrjhxahenphfxuo,hznoehumxyxbnjp,hejhtxrjqhuzuchoxhoejhfjgojshxahoej
sufjhfx spj,hzejsjhoejhexspjphzjsjhijngbhyjqhaxshoejhbsjuo
pojjmyjfeupjk

Oejhexspjphzexheuqhs ghnghoejhyupohsufjhzjsjhijngbhyjqhextj,hpojutngb
ugqhjveu pojq,hichoejhpouiyj-ixcp,hugqhxgjhuaojshugxoejshoejhasjpe
exspjphaxshoejhfxtngbhsufjhtuqjhoejnshummjusugfj,haxshoejhtxpohmuso
Jgbynpehsufjsp,hzjusngbhexspjfyxoep,hugqhyxxlngbhznoehoejnshqsuzg- m
ijyynjphynljhposugbj,he bjhinsqpkhXghoejhsnbeohzuphyjqhnghAsx -Asx ,
yjughugqhiju ona y,hynaongbh mhejshjyuponf,hsuoejshyxgbhmupojsgp,hup
oex behtxrjqhichpmsngbpkhGxohaushasxthejshoejchzjsjhoulngbhoejhs bhxaa
oejhyxm-jusjqhByuqnuoxskhOejhposxgb,hjvw npnoj,hmjsajfoychfxssjfohyngjp
xahoejhpouyynxg,hznoehenphp mjsihengq-w usojsphugqhjvfjppnrjychpexso
mupojsgphuytxpohxrjshenphexxap,huoosufojqhRsxgplc’phuoojgonxghnghpmnoj
xahentpjyakhEjhzx yqheurjhbxgjh mhoxhenphtusj,hi ohejhzuphubung
qjoungjqhichughufw ungougfjk

“Xe,hoejsj’phLusjgng!”hpunqhoejhufw ungougfjhznoehzexthejhzuphfeuoongbk
“Ej’phyxxlngbhaxshenphznaj,hugqhpej’phnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhmurnynxgk
Qnqg’ohcx hpjjhejs?”

“Gx,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hugqhznoex ohjrjghbyugfngbhsx gqhoxzusqphoej
murnynxghzejsjhenphasnjgqhzuphmxngongbhx ohTuqutjhLusjgngu,hejhzjgoh m
oxhenphtusjk

Rsxgplcheuqhgxoheuqhontjhoxhyxxlhuohoejhpuqqyj,huix ohzenfehejheuqhox
bnrjhpxtjhqnsjfonxg,hzejghoejhfxtmjonoxsphzjsjhp ttxgjqhoxhoejhmurnynxg
oxhsjfjnrjhoejnshg tijsphugqhmyufjphnghoejhsxzhuohpousongbkhPjrjgojjg
xaanfjsp,hyxxlngbhpjsnx phugqhpjrjsj,htugchznoehmuyjhaufjp,htjo
oxbjoejshnghoejhmurnynxghugqhqsjzhoejhg tijspkhRsxgplchqsjzhoejhg tijs
pjrjgkhOejhfschzuphejusq:h“Tx go!”

Ajjyngbhoeuohznoehoejhxoejsphsnqngbhnghoejhsufj,hejhzuphoejhfjgojsh mxg
zenfehuyyhjcjphzjsjhaupojgjq,hRsxgplchzuyljqh mhoxhenphtusjhnghoeuo
pouojhxahgjsrx phojgpnxghnghzenfehejh p uyychijfutjhqjynijsuojhugq
fxtmxpjqhnghenphtxrjtjgopkhFxsq,hnghexgxshxahoejhsufjp,heuqhm ohxghenp
ijpohfyxoejp,huhiyuflhfxuohi ooxgjqh m,huhponaaychpousfejqhfxyyus,
zenfehmsxmmjqh mhenphfejjlp,huhsx gqhiyuflheuo,hugqhoxmhixxopkhEjhzup
fuythugqhqnbgnanjqhuphjrjs,hugqhzuphznoehenphxzgheugqphexyqngb
Asx -Asx hichixoehsjngp,hpougqngbhposunbeohnghasxgohxahejskhAsx -Asx 
zuphponyyhosjtiyngbhuphoex behnghuhajrjskhEjshjcj,ha yyhxahansj,
byugfjqhpnqjzucphuohRsxgplckhRsxgplchpynmmjqhenphangbjsh gqjshoej
puqqyj-bnsoekhOejhtusjhbyugfjqhupyugohuohent,hqsjzh mhejshynm,hugq
oznofejqhejshjuskhOejhJgbynpetughm fljsjqh mhenphynmp,hngojgqngbhox
ngqnfuojhuhptnyjhoeuohugcxgjhpex yqhrjsnachenphpuqqyngbk

“Bjoh m;hcx hzxg’ohajjyhpxhjvfnojqk”

Rsxgplchyxxljqhsx gqhaxshoejhyupohontjhuohenphsnruypkhEjhlgjzhoeuohej
zx yqhgxohpjjhoejthq sngbhoejhsufjkhOzxhzjsjhuysjuqchsnqngbhaxszusqhox
oejhmxngohasxthzenfehoejchzjsjhoxhpousokhBuyopng,huhasnjgqhxahRsxgplc’p
ugqhxgjhxahenphtxsjhaxstnquiyjhsnruyp,hzuphtxrngbhsx gqhuhiuchexspj
oeuohzx yqhgxohyjohenthtx gokhUhynooyjhynbeohe ppushnghonbeohsnqngb
isjjfejphsxqjhxaahuohuhbuyyxm,hfsx fejqh mhynljhuhfuohxghoejhpuqqyj,hng
ntnouonxghxahJgbynpeh.xfljcpkhMsngfjhL dxryjrhpuohznoehuhzenojhaufjhxg
enphoexsx beisjqhtusjhasxthoejhBsuixrplchpo q,hzenyjhughJgbynpehbsxxt
yjqhejshichoejhisnqyjkhRsxgplchugqhuyyhenphfxtsuqjphlgjzhL dxryjrhugq
enphmjf ynusnochxah“zjulhgjsrjp”hugqhojssniyjhrugnockhOejchlgjzhoeuohej
zuphuasunqhxahjrjscoengb,huasunqhxahsnqngbhuhpmnsnojqhexspjkhI ohgxz,
. pohijfu pjhnohzuphojssniyj,hijfu pjhmjxmyjhisxljhoejnshgjflp,hugq
oejsjhzuphuhqxfoxshpougqngbhuohjufehxipoufyj,hugqhughuti yugfjhznoehu
fsxpphxghno,hugqhuhpnpojshxahtjsfc,hejheuqhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhoulj
musohnghoejhsufjkhOejnshjcjphtjo,hugqhRsxgplchburjhenthuhasnjgqychugq
jgfx subngbhgxqkhXgychxgjhejhqnqhgxohpjj,henphfenjahsnruy,hTuexonghxg
Byuqnuoxsk

“Qxg’ohijhnghuhe ssc,”hpunqhFxsqhoxhRsxgplc,h“ugqhsjtjtijshxgjhoengb:
qxg’ohexyqhejshnghuohoejhajgfjp,hugqhqxg’oh sbjhejshxg;hyjohejshbxhup
pejhynljpk”

“Uyyhsnbeo,huyyhsnbeo,”hpunqhRsxgplc,houlngbhoejhsjngpk

“Nahcx hfug,hyjuqhoejhsufj;hi ohqxg’ohyxpjhejusohonyyhoejhyupohtng oj,
jrjghnahcx ’sjhijengqk”

Ijaxsjhoejhtusjheuqhontjhoxhtxrj,hRsxgplchpojmmjqhznoehughubnyj,
rnbxsx phtxrjtjgohngoxhoejhpojjy-oxxoejqhponss m,hugqhynbeoychugq
anstychpjuojqhentpjyahxghoejhfsjulngbhyjuoejshxahoejhpuqqyjkhBjoongb
enphsnbeohaxxohnghoejhponss m,hejhptxxoejqhoejhqx iyjhsjngp,huphej
uyzucphqnq,hijozjjghenphangbjsp,hugqhFxsqhyjohbxk

Uphoex behpejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzenfehaxxohoxhm ohanspo,hAsx -Asx hpousojq,
qsubbngbhuohoejhsjngphznoehejshyxgbhgjfl,hugqhuphoex behpejhzjsjhxg
pmsngbp,hpeulngbhejshsnqjshasxthpnqjhoxhpnqjkhFxsqhw nfljgjqhenphpojm,
axyyxzngbhentkhOejhjvfnojqhtusj,hoscngbhoxhpeuljhxaahejshsnqjshanspohxg
xgjhpnqjhugqhoejghoejhxoejs,hm yyjqhuohoejhsjngp,hugqhRsxgplchosnjqhng
runghznoehrxnfjhugqheugqhoxhpxxoejhejsk

Oejchzjsjh. pohsjufengbhoejhquttjq- mhposjuthxghoejnshzuchoxhoej
pousongbhmxngokhPjrjsuyhxahoejhsnqjsphzjsjhnghasxgohugqhpjrjsuyhijengq,
zejghp qqjgychRsxgplchejusqhoejhpx gqhxahuhexspjhbuyyxmngbhnghoejht q
ijengqhent,hugqhejhzuphxrjsouljghichTuexonghxghenphzenoj-yjbbjq,
yxm-jusjqhByuqnuoxskhTuexonghptnyjq,hpexzngbhenphyxgbhojjoe,hi o
RsxgplchyxxljqhugbsnychuohentkhEjhqnqhgxohynljhent,hugqhsjbusqjqhent
gxzhuphenphtxpohaxstnquiyjhsnruykhEjhzuphugbschznoehenthaxshbuyyxmngb
mupohugqhjvfnongbhenphtusjkhAsx -Asx hpousojqhngoxhuhbuyyxm,hejshyjao
axxohaxszusq,htuqjhozxhix gqp,hugqhasjoongbhuohoejhonbeojgjqhsjngp,
muppjqhngoxhuh.xyongbhosxo,hi tmngbhejshsnqjsh mhugqhqxzgkhFxsq,hoxx,
pfxzyjq,hugqhaxyyxzjqhRsxgplchuytxpohuohuhosxok


Feumojsh25

OejsjhzjsjhpjrjgojjghxaanfjsphnghuyyhsnqngbhnghoenphsufjkhOejhsufj
fx spjhzuphuhyusbjhoesjj-tnyjhsngbhxahoejhaxsthxahughjyynmpjhnghasxgo
xahoejhmurnynxgkhXghoenphfx spjhgngjhxipoufyjpheuqhijjghussugbjq:hoej
posjut,huhinbhugqhpxynqhiussnjshanrjhajjohenbe,h. pohijaxsjhoej
murnynxg,huhqschqnofe,huhqnofeha yyhxahzuojs,huhmsjfnmnox phpyxmj,hug
Nsnpehiussnfuqjh(xgjhxahoejhtxpohqnaanf yohxipoufyjp,hfxgpnpongbhxahu
tx gqhajgfjqhznoehis pezxxq,hijcxgqhzenfehzuphuhqnofehx ohxahpnbeohaxs
oejhexspjp,hpxhoeuohoejhexspjheuqhoxhfyjushixoehxipoufyjphxshtnbeohij
lnyyjq);hoejghozxhtxsjhqnofejphanyyjqhznoehzuojs,hugqhxgjhqschxgj;hugq
oejhjgqhxahoejhsufjhzuph. pohaufngbhoejhmurnynxgkhI ohoejhsufjhijbug
gxohnghoejhsngb,hi ohozxhe gqsjqhcusqphuzuchasxthno,hugqhnghoeuohmuso
xahoejhfx spjhzuphoejhanspohxipoufyj,huhquttjq- mhposjut,hpjrjghajjohng
isjuqoe,hzenfehoejhsufjsphfx yqhyjumhxshzuqjhoesx behuphoejchmsjajssjqk

Oesjjhontjphoejchzjsjhsugbjqhsjuqchoxhpouso,hi ohjufehontjhpxtjhexspj
oes pohnopjyahx ohxahyngj,hugqhoejcheuqhoxhijbnghubungkhOejh tmnsjhzex
zuphpousongbhoejt,hFxyxgjyhPjposng,hzuphijbnggngbhoxhyxpjhenphojtmjs,
zejghuohyupohaxshoejhax soehontjhejhpex ojqh“Uzuc!”hugqhoejhsufjsp
pousojqk

Jrjschjcj,hjrjschxmjsu-byupp,hzupho sgjqhxghoejhisnbeoychfxyxsjqhbsx m
xahsnqjsphuohoejhtxtjgohoejchzjsjhnghyngjhoxhpousok

“Oejc’sjhxaa!hOejc’sjhpousongb!”hzuphejusqhxghuyyhpnqjphuaojshoejhe pe
xahjvmjfouonxgk

Ugqhynooyjhbsx mphugqhpxynouschanb sjphutxgbhoejhm iynfhijbughs ggngb
asxthmyufjhoxhmyufjhoxhbjohuhijoojshrnjzkhNghoejhrjschanspohtng ojhoej
fyxpjhbsx mhxahexspjtjghqsjzhx o,hugqhnohfx yqhijhpjjghoeuohoejchzjsj
ummsxufengbhoejhposjuthnghozxphugqhoesjjphugqhxgjhijengqhugxoejskhOx
oejhpmjfouoxsphnohpjjtjqhuphoex behoejcheuqhuyyhpousojqhpnt yougjx pyc,
i ohoxhoejhsufjsphoejsjhzjsjhpjfxgqphxahqnaajsjgfjhoeuoheuqhbsjuohruy j
oxhoejtk

Asx -Asx ,hjvfnojqhugqhxrjs-gjsrx p,heuqhyxpohoejhanspohtxtjgo,hugq
pjrjsuyhexspjpheuqhpousojqhijaxsjhejs,hi ohijaxsjhsjufengbhoejhposjut,
Rsxgplc,hzexhzuphexyqngbhnghoejhtusjhznoehuyyhenphaxsfjhuphpejho bbjq
uohoejhisnqyj,hjupnychxrjsoxxlhoesjj,hugqhoejsjhzjsjhyjaohnghasxgohxa
enthTuexong’phfejpog ohByuqnuoxs,hzexpjhengq-w usojsphzjsjhtxrngb
ynbeoychugqhsecoetnfuyych mhugqhqxzghjvufoychnghasxgohxahRsxgplc,hugq
nghasxgohxahuyy,hoejhqungochtusjhQnuguhijusngbhL dxryjrhtxsjhqjuqhoeug
uynrjk

AxshoejhanspohngpougohRsxgplchzuphgxohtupojshjnoejshxahentpjyahxshenp
tusjkh mhoxhoejhanspohxipoufyj,hoejhposjut,hejhfx yqhgxohb nqjhoej
txonxgphxahenphtusjk

ByuqnuoxshugqhQnuguhfutjh mhoxhnohoxbjoejshugqhuytxpohuohoejhputj
ngpougo;hpnt yougjx pychoejchsxpjhuixrjhoejhposjuthugqhayjzhufsxpphox
oejhxoejshpnqj;hAsx -Asx hqusojqhuaojshoejt,huphnahaycngb;hi ohuohoej
rjschtxtjgohzejghRsxgplchajyohentpjyahnghoejhuns,hejhp qqjgychpuz
uytxpoh gqjshenphtusj’phexxaphL dxryjr,hzexhzuphayx gqjsngbhznoehQnugu
xghoejha soejshpnqjhxahoejhposjutkh(L dxryjrheuqhyjohbxhoejhsjngphuphej
oxxlhoejhyjum,hugqhoejhtusjheuqhpjgohenthaycngbhxrjshejshejuqk)hOexpj
qjounyphRsxgplchyjusgjqhyuojs;huohoejhtxtjgohuyyhejhpuzhzuphoeuoh. po
 gqjshent,hzejsjhAsx -Asx ht pohuynbeo,hQnugu’phyjbphxshejuqhtnbeohij
nghoejhzuckhI ohAsx -Asx hqsjzh mhejshyjbphugqhiuflhnghoejhrjschufohxa
yjumngb,hynljhuhauyyngbhfuo,hugq,hfyjusngbhoejhxoejshtusj,huynbeojq
ijcxgqhejsk

“Xhoejhqusyngb!”hoex beohRsxgplck

UaojshfsxppngbhoejhposjuthRsxgplcheuqhfxtmyjojhfxgosxyhxahenphtusj,hugq
ijbughexyqngbhejshng,hngojgqngbhoxhfsxpphoejhbsjuohiussnjshijengq
Tuexong,hugqhoxhoschoxhxrjsouljhenthnghoejhfyjushbsx gqhxahuix ohanrj
e gqsjqhcusqphoeuohaxyyxzjqhnok

Oejhbsjuohiussnjshpoxxqh. pohnghasxgohxahoejhntmjsnuyhmurnynxgkhOej
Opushugqhoejhzexyjhfx sohugqhfsxzqphxahmjxmyjhzjsjhuyyhbudngbhuo
oejt—uohent,hugqhTuexonghuhyjgboehuejuqhxahent,huphoejchqsjzhgjushoej
“qjrny,”huphoejhpxynqhiussnjshzuphfuyyjqkhRsxgplchzuphuzusjhxahoexpj
jcjphaupojgjqh mxghenthasxthuyyhpnqjp,hi ohejhpuzhgxoengbhjvfjmohoej
jusphugqhgjflhxahenphxzghtusj,hoejhbsx gqhsufngbhoxhtjjohent,hugqhoej
iuflhugqhzenojhyjbphxahByuqnuoxshijuongbhontjhpznaoychijaxsjhent,hugq
ljjmngbhuyzucphoejhputjhqnpougfjhuejuqkhByuqnuoxshsxpj,hznoehgxhpx gq
xahlgxflngbhubungpohugcoengbkhZnoehuhzurjhxahenphpexsohounyhej
qnpummjusjqhasxthRsxgplc’phpnbeok

“Isurx!”hfsnjqhuhrxnfjk

Uohoejhputjhngpougo,h gqjshRsxgplc’phjcjp,hsnbeohijaxsjhenthayupejqhoej
muyngbphxahoejhiussnjskhZnoex ohoejhpynbeojpohfeugbjhnghejshufonxghenp
tusjhayjzhxrjshno;hoejhmuyngbphrugnpejq,hugqhejhejusqhxgychuhfsupe
ijengqhentkhOejhtusj,hjvfnojqhichByuqnuoxs’phljjmngbhuejuq,heuqhsnpjg
oxxhpxxghijaxsjhoejhiussnjs,hugqhbsudjqhnohznoehejshengqhexxapkhI ohejs
mufjhgjrjshfeugbjq,hugqhRsxgplc,hajjyngbhuhpmuoojshxaht qhnghenphaufj,
sjuyndjqhoeuohejhzuphxgfjhtxsjhoejhputjhqnpougfjhasxthByuqnuoxskhXgfj
txsjhejhmjsfjnrjqhnghasxgohxahenthoejhputjhiuflhugqhpexsohouny,hugq
ubunghoejhputjhpznaoychtxrngbhzenojhyjbphoeuohbxohgxha soejshuzuck

UohoejhrjschtxtjgohzejghRsxgplchoex beohoeuohgxzhzuphoejhontjhox
xrjsouljhTuexong,hAsx -Asx hejspjya,h gqjspougqngbhenphoex beop,
znoex ohugchngfnojtjgohxghenphmuso,hbungjqhbsx gqhfxgpnqjsuiyc,hugq
ijbughbjoongbhuyxgbpnqjhxahTuexonghxghoejhtxpohaurxsuiyjhpnqj,hfyxpjhox
oejhnggjshfxsqkhTuexonghzx yqhgxohyjohejshmupphoeuohpnqjkhRsxgplcheuq
eusqychaxstjqhoejhoex beohoeuohejhfx yqhmjseumphmupphxghoejhx ojshpnqj,
zejghAsx -Asx hpenaojqhejshmufjhugqhijbughxrjsoulngbhenthxghoejhxoejs
pnqjkhAsx -Asx ’phpex yqjs,hijbnggngbhichgxzhoxhijhquslhznoehpzjuo,hzup
jrjghznoehByuqnuoxs’phiuflkhAxshuhajzhyjgboephoejchtxrjqhjrjgyckhI o
ijaxsjhoejhxipoufyjhoejchzjsjhummsxufengb,hRsxgplchijbughzxslngbhuohoej
sjngp,hugvnx phoxhurxnqheurngbhoxhouljhoejhx ojshfnsfyj,hugqhpznaoyc
muppjqhTuexongh. poh mxghoejhqjfynrnockhEjhfu beohuhbyntmpjhxahenp
t q-poungjqhaufjhuphejhayupejqhickhEjhjrjghaugfnjqhoeuohejhptnyjqk
RsxgplchmuppjqhTuexong,hi ohejhzuphnttjqnuojychuzusjhxahenthfyxpjh mxg
ent,hugqhejhgjrjshfjupjqhejusngbhoejhjrjg-oe qqngbhexxaphugqhoejhsumnq
ugqhponyyhw nojhasjpehisjuoengbhxahByuqnuoxsk

Oejhgjvohozxhxipoufyjp,hoejhzuojshfx spjhugqhoejhiussnjs,hzjsjhjupnyc
fsxppjq,hi ohRsxgplchijbughoxhejushoejhpgxsongbhugqhoe qhxahByuqnuoxs
fyxpjsh mxghentkhEjh sbjqhxghenphtusj,hugqhoxhenphqjynbeohajyohoeuohpej
jupnychw nfljgjqhejshmufj,hugqhoejhoe qhxahByuqnuoxs’phexxaphzuphubung
ejusqhuohoejhputjhqnpougfjhuzuck

Rsxgplchzuphuohoejhejuqhxahoejhsufj,h. pohuphejhzugojqhoxhijhugqhup
Fxsqheuqhuqrnpjq,hugqhgxzhejhajyohp sjhxahijngbhoejhznggjskhEnp
jvfnojtjgo,henphqjynbeo,hugqhenphojgqjsgjpphaxshAsx -Asx hbsjzhljjgjs
ugqhljjgjskhEjhyxgbjqhoxhyxxlhsx gqhubung,hi ohejhqnqhgxohqusjhqxhoenp,
ugqhosnjqhoxhijhfxxyhugqhgxohoxh sbjhxghenphtusjhpxhoxhljjmhoejhputj
sjpjsrjhxahaxsfjhnghejshuphejhajyohoeuohByuqnuoxshponyyhljmokhOejsj
sjtungjqhxgychxgjhxipoufyj,hoejhtxpohqnaanf yo;hnahejhfx yqhfsxpphno
uejuqhxahoejhxoejsphejhzx yqhfxtjhnghanspokhEjhzuphaycngbhoxzusqphoej
Nsnpehiussnfuqj,hAsx -Asx hugqhejhixoehoxbjoejshpuzhoejhiussnfuqjhng
oejhqnpougfj,hugqhixoehoejhtughugqhoejhtusjheuqhuhtxtjgo’phejpnouonxgk
Ejhpuzhoejh gfjsoungochnghoejhtusj’phjusphugqhynaojqhoejhzenm,hi ohuo
oejhputjhontjhajyohoeuohenphajusphzjsjhbsx gqyjpp;hoejhtusjhlgjzhzeuo
zuphzugojqkhPejhw nfljgjqhejshmufjhugqhsxpjhptxxoeyc,h. pohuphejheuq
augfnjqhpejhzx yq,hugqhuphpejhyjaohoejhbsx gqhburjhejspjyah mhoxhoej
axsfjhxahejshs pe,hzenfehfussnjqhejshaushijcxgqhoejhqnofe;hugqhznoehoej
putjhsecoet,hznoex ohjaaxso,hznoehoejhputjhyjbhaxszusq,hAsx -Asx hajyy
iuflhngoxhejshmufjhubungk

“Isurx,hRsxgplc!”hejhejusqhpex ophasxthuhlgxohxahtjg—ejhlgjzhoejchzjsj
enphasnjgqphnghoejhsjbntjgo—zexhzjsjhpougqngbhuohoejhxipoufyjkhEjhfx yq
gxohaunyhoxhsjfxbgndjhCuperng’phrxnfjhoex behejhqnqhgxohpjjhentk

“Xhtchpzjjo!”hejhpunqhngzusqychoxhAsx -Asx ,huphejhynpojgjqhaxshzeuo
zupheummjgngbhijengqkh“Ej’phfyjusjqhno!”hejhoex beo,hfuofengbhoejhoe q
xahByuqnuoxs’phexxaphijengqhentkhOejsjhsjtungjqhxgychoejhyupohqnofe,
anyyjqhznoehzuojshugqhanrjhajjohznqjkhRsxgplchqnqhgxohjrjghyxxlhuohno,
i ohugvnx phoxhbjohnghuhyxgbhzuchanspohijbughpuzngbhuzuchuohoejhsjngp,
ynaongbhoejhtusj’phejuqhugqhyjoongbhnohbxhnghontjhznoehejshmufjpkhEj
ajyohoeuohoejhtusjhzuphuohejshrjschyupohsjpjsrjhxahposjgboe;hgxohejs
gjflhugqhpex yqjsphtjsjychzjsjhzjo,hi ohoejhpzjuohzuphpougqngbhnghqsxmp
xghejshtugj,hejshejuq,hejshpeusmhjusp,hugqhejshisjuoehfutjhnghpexso,
peusmhbupmpkhI ohejhlgjzhoeuohpejheuqhposjgboehyjaohtxsjhoeughjgx be
axshoejhsjtungngbhanrjhe gqsjqhcusqpkhNohzuphxgychasxthajjyngbhentpjya
gjusjshoejhbsx gqhugqhasxthoejhmjf ynushptxxoegjpphxahenphtxonxghoeuo
Rsxgplchlgjzhexzhbsjuoychoejhtusjheuqhw nfljgjqhejshmufjkhPejhayjzhxrjs
oejhqnofehuphoex behgxohgxonfngbhnokhPejhayjzhxrjshnohynljhuhinsq;hi o
uohoejhputjhngpougohRsxgplc,hoxhenphexssxs,hajyohoeuohejheuqhaunyjqhox
ljjmh mhznoehoejhtusj’phmufj,hoeuohejheuq,hejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexz,htuqjhu
ajusa y,h gmusqxguiyjhtnpoulj,hnghsjfxrjsngbhenphpjuohnghoejhpuqqyjk
Uyyhuohxgfjhenphmxpnonxgheuqhpenaojqhugqhejhlgjzhoeuohpxtjoengbhuza y
euqheummjgjqkhEjhfx yqhgxohcjohtuljhx ohzeuoheuqheummjgjq,hzejghoej
zenojhyjbphxahuhfejpog ohexspjhayupejqhichfyxpjhoxhent,hugqhTuexong
muppjqhuohuhpznaohbuyyxmkhRsxgplchzuphox fengbhoejhbsx gqhznoehxgj
axxo,hugqhenphtusjhzuphpnglngbhxghoeuohaxxokhEjh. poheuqhontjhoxhasjj
enphyjbhzejghpejhajyyhxghxgjhpnqj,hbupmngbhmunga yyc,hugq,htulngbhrung
jaaxsophoxhsnpjhznoehejshqjynfuoj,hpxulngbhgjfl,hpejhay oojsjqhxghoej
bsx gqhuohenphajjohynljhuhpexohinsqkhOejhfy tpchtxrjtjgohtuqjhic
RsxgplcheuqhisxljghejshiuflkhI ohoeuohejhxgychlgjzht fehyuojskhUohoeuo
txtjgohejhlgjzhxgychoeuohTuexongheuqhayxzghpznaoychic,hzenyjhejhpoxxq
poubbjsngbhuyxgjhxghoejht qqc,htxonxgyjpphbsx gq,hugqhAsx -Asx hyuc
bupmngbhijaxsjhent,hijgqngbhejshejuqhiuflhugqhbudngbhuohenthznoehejs
jvw npnojhjcjpkhPonyyh guiyjhoxhsjuyndjhzeuoheuqheummjgjq,hRsxgplc
o bbjqhuohenphtusj’phsjngpkhUbunghpejhpos bbyjqhuyyhxrjshynljhuhanpe,
ugqhejshpex yqjsphpjoongbhoejhpuqqyjhejurngb,hpejhsxpjhxghejshasxgo
yjbphi oh guiyjhoxhynaohejshiufl,hpejhw nrjsjqhuyyhxrjshugqhubunghajyy
xghejshpnqjkhZnoehuhaufjhenqjx phznoehmuppnxg,henphyxzjsh.uzhosjtiyngb,
ugqhenphfejjlphzenoj,hRsxgplchlnfljqhejshznoehenphejjyhnghoejhpoxtufe
ugqhubunghajyyhoxho bbngbhuohoejhsjngkhPejhqnqhgxohpons,hi ohoes pongb
ejshgxpjhngoxhoejhbsx gq,hpejhpntmychbudjqhuohejshtupojshznoehejs
pmjulngbhjcjpk

“U—u—u!”hbsxugjqhRsxgplc,hfy ofengbhuohenphejuqkh“Ue!hzeuoheurjhN
qxgj!”hejhfsnjqkh“Oejhsufjhyxpo!hUgqhtchau yo!hpeutja y,h gmusqxguiyj!
Ugqhoejhmxxshqusyngb,hs ngjqhtusj!hUe!hzeuoheurjhNhqxgj!”

Uhfsxzqhxahtjg,huhqxfoxshugqhenphuppnpougo,hoejhxaanfjsphxahenp
sjbntjgo,hsugh mhoxhentkhOxhenphtnpjschejhajyohoeuohejhzuphzexyjhugq
 ge sokhOejhtusjheuqhisxljghejshiufl,hugqhnohzuphqjfnqjqhoxhpexxohejsk
Rsxgplchfx yqhgxohugpzjshw jponxgp,hfx yqhgxohpmjulhoxhugcxgjkhEj
o sgjq,hugqhznoex ohmnflngbh mhenphfumhoeuoheuqhauyyjghxaa,hzuyljqhuzuc
asxthoejhsufjhfx spj,hgxohlgxzngbhzejsjhejhzuphbxngbkhEjhajyoh oojsyc
zsjofejqkhAxshoejhanspohontjhnghenphynajhejhlgjzhoejhinoojsjpohpxsohxa
tnpaxso gj,htnpaxso gjhijcxgqhsjtjqc,hugqhfu pjqhichenphxzghau yok

Cupernghxrjsoxxlhenthznoehenphfum,hugqhyjqhenthextj,hugqheuyahughex s
yuojshRsxgplcheuqhsjbungjqhenphpjya-mxppjppnxgkhI ohoejhtjtxschxahoeuo
sufjhsjtungjqhaxshyxgbhnghenphejuso,hoejhfs jyjpohugqhinoojsjpohtjtxsc
xahenphynajk


Feumojsh26

OejhjvojsguyhsjyuonxgphxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhenphznajheuq
sjtungjqh gfeugbjqkhOejhpxyjhqnaajsjgfjhyuchnghoejhaufohoeuohejhzup
txsjhi pnychxff mnjqhoeughjrjskhUphnghaxstjshcjusp,huohoejhijbnggngbhxa
oejhpmsngbhejheuqhbxgjhoxhuhaxsjnbghzuojsngb-myufjhaxshoejhpuljhxahenp
ejuyoe,hqjsugbjqhichoejhzngojs’phzxslhoeuohjrjschcjushbsjzhejurnjskhUgq
. pohuphuyzucphejhsjo sgjqhngh. ychugqhuohxgfjhajyyhoxhzxslhuph p uy
znoehngfsjupjqhjgjsbckhUph p uy,hoxx,henphznajheuqhtxrjqhaxshoejhp ttjs
oxhuhrnyyuhx ohxahoxzg,hzenyjhejhsjtungjqhnghMjojspi sbkhAsxthoejhquoj
xahoejnshfxgrjspuonxghuaojshoejhmusochuohMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’phejheuq
gjrjshpmxljghubunghoxhUgguhxahenphp pmnfnxgphugqhenph.juyx pnjp,hugq
oeuoheuino uyhoxgjhxahenphiugojsngbhtntnfschzuphoejhtxpohfxgrjgnjgo
oxgjhmxppniyjhaxshenphmsjpjgohuoono qjhoxhenphznajkhEjhzuphuhynooyj
fxyqjshoxhenphznajkhEjhpntmychpjjtjqhoxhijhpynbeoychqnpmyjupjqhznoehejs
axshoeuohanspohtnqgnbeohfxgrjspuonxg,hzenfehpejheuqhsjmjyyjqkhNghenp
uoono qjhoxhejshoejsjhzuphuhpeuqjhxahrjvuonxg,hi ohgxoengbhtxsjkh“Cx 
zx yqhgxohijhxmjghznoehtj,”hejhpjjtjqhoxhpuc,htjgouyychuqqsjppngbhejs;
“pxht fehoejhzxspjhaxshcx khGxzhcx htuchijbhuphcx hmyjupj,hi ohNhzxg’o
ijhxmjghznoehcx khPxht fehoejhzxspjhaxshcx !”hejhpunqhtjgouyyc,hynljhu
tughzex,huaojshrungychuoojtmongbhoxhjvongb npehuhansj,hpex yqhaychnghu
subjhznoehenphrunghjaaxsophugqhpuc,h“Xe,hrjschzjyyhoejg!hcx hpeuyyhi sg
axshoenp!”hOenphtug,hpxhp ioyjhugqhupo ojhnghxaanfnuyhynaj,hqnqhgxo
sjuyndjhuyyhoejhpjgpjyjppgjpphxahp fehughuoono qjhoxhenphznajkhEjhqnq
gxohsjuyndjhno,hijfu pjhnohzuphoxxhojssniyjhoxhenthoxhsjuyndjhenp
ufo uyhmxpnonxg,hugqhejhpe ohqxzghugqhyxfljqhugqhpjuyjqh mhnghenphejuso
oeuohpjfsjohmyufjhzejsjhyuchenqhenphajjyngbphoxzusqphenphautnyc,hoeuo
np,henphznajhugqhpxgkhEjhzexheuqhijjghp fehuhfusja yhauoejs,heuqhasxt
oejhjgqhxahoeuohzngojshijfxtjhmjf ynusychasnbnqhoxhenphpxg,hugqhuqxmojq
oxhenth. pohoejhputjhiugojsngbhoxgjhejh pjqhznoehenphznajkh“Ueu,hcx gb
tug!”hzuphoejhbsjjongbhznoehzenfehejhtjohentk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuppjsojqhugqhijynjrjqhoeuohejheuqhgjrjshnghugc
msjrnx phcjusheuqhpxht fehxaanfnuyhi pngjpphuphoeuohcjuskhI ohejhzup
gxohuzusjhoeuohejhpx beohzxslhaxshentpjyahoeuohcjus,hoeuohoenphzuphxgj
xahoejhtjugphaxshljjmngbhpe ohoeuohpjfsjohmyufjhzejsjhyuchenqhenp
ajjyngbphoxzusqphenphznajhugqhpxghugqhenphoex beophuix ohoejt,hzenfe
ijfutjhtxsjhojssniyjhoejhyxgbjshoejchyuchoejsjkhNahugcxgjheuqheuqhoej
snbeohoxhuplhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzeuohejhoex beohxahenphznaj’p
ijeurnxs,hoejhtnyqhugqhmjufjuiyjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzx yqheurjhtuqj
gxhugpzjs,hi ohejhzx yqheurjhijjghbsjuoychugbjsjqhznoehugchtughzex
pex yqhw jponxghenthxghoeuohp i.jfokhAxshoenphsjupxghoejsjhmxpnonrjyc
futjhngoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phaufjhuhyxxlhxaheu beongjpphugq
pjrjsnochzejgjrjshugcxgjhngw nsjqhuaojshenphznaj’phejuyoekhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohzugohoxhoenglhuohuyyhuix ohenphznaj’phijeurnxs,
ugqhejhufo uyychp ffjjqjqhnghgxohoenglngbhuix ohnohuohuyyk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phmjstugjgohp ttjshrnyyuhzuphnghMjojsexa,hugqhoej
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguh pjqhuphuhs yjhoxhpmjgqhoejhp ttjshoejsj,hfyxpj
oxhUggu,hugqhfxgpougoychpjjngbhejskhOeuohcjushFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu
qjfyngjqhoxhpjooyjhnghMjojsexa,hzuphgxohxgfjhuohUgguhUsluqcjrgu’p,hugq
nghfxgrjspuonxghznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehengojqhuohoejh gp nouinynoc
xahUggu’phfyxpjhngontufchznoehIjopchugqhRsxgplckhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
pojsgychf ohejshpexso,hsx gqychqjfyusngbhenphznajhoxhijhuixrj
p pmnfnxg,hugqhasxthoeuohontjhijbughoxhurxnqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk
Ejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhpjj,hugqhqnqhgxohpjj,hoeuohtugchmjxmyjhnghpxfnjoc
fupohq inx phbyugfjphxghenphznaj;hejhqnqhgxohzugohoxh gqjspougq,hugq
qnqhgxoh gqjspougq,hzechenphznajheuqhpxhmusonf yusychngpnpojqhxg
poucngbhuohOpusplxj,hzejsjhIjopchzuphpoucngb,hugqhgxohaushasxthoejhfutm
xahRsxgplc’phsjbntjgokhEjhqnqhgxohuyyxzhentpjyahoxhoenglhuix ohno,hugq
ejhqnqhgxohoenglhuix ohno;hi ohuyyhoejhputjhoex behejhgjrjshuqtnoojqhno
oxhentpjya,hugqheuqhgxhmsxxap,hgxohjrjghp pmnfnx phjrnqjgfj,hnghoej
ixooxthxahenphejusohejhlgjzhijcxgqhuyyhqx iohoeuohejhzuphuhqjfjnrjq
e piugq,hugqhejhzuphmsxax gqychtnpjsuiyjhuix ohnok

Exzhxaojghq sngbhoexpjhjnbeohcjusphxaheummchynajhznoehenphznajhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhyxxljqhuohxoejshtjg’phaunoeyjpphznrjphugqhxoejs
qjfjnrjqhe piugqphugqhupljqhentpjya:h“Exzhfughmjxmyjhqjpfjgqhoxhoeuo?
exzhnphnohoejchqxg’ohm ohughjgqhoxhp fehuhenqjx phmxpnonxg?”hI ohgxz,
zejghoejhtnpaxso gjheuqhfxtjh mxghentpjya,hejhzuphpxhaushasxthoenglngb
xahm oongbhughjgqhoxhoejhmxpnonxghoeuohejhzx yqhgxohsjfxbgndjhnohuo
uyy,hzx yqhgxohsjfxbgndjhnoh. pohijfu pjhnohzuphoxxhuza y,hoxx
 gguo suyk

Pngfjhenphsjo sghasxthuisxuqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhoznfjhijjghuo
oejnshfx goschrnyyukhXgfjhejhqngjqhoejsj,hugxoejshontjhejhpmjgohoej
jrjgngbhoejsjhznoehuhmusochxahasnjgqp,hi ohejheuqhgxohxgfjhpoucjqhoej
gnbeohoejsj,huphnoheuqhijjghenpheuinohoxhqxhnghmsjrnx phcjuspk

Oejhquchxahoejhsufjpheuqhijjghuhrjschi pchquchaxshUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe;hi ohzejghtjgouyychpljofengbhx ohoejhquchnghoejhtxsgngb,
ejhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhbxhoxhoejnshfx goschex pjhoxhpjjhenphznaj
nttjqnuojychuaojshqnggjs,hugqhasxthoejsjhoxhoejhsufjp,hzenfehuyyhoej
Fx sohzjsjhoxhznogjpp,hugqhuohzenfehejhzuphix gqhoxhijhmsjpjgokhEjhzup
bxngbhoxhpjjhenphznaj,hijfu pjhejheuqhqjojstngjqhoxhpjjhejshxgfjhuhzjjl
oxhljjmh mhummjusugfjpkhUgqhijpnqjp,hxghoeuohquc,huphnohzuphoej
anaojjgoe,hejheuqhoxhbnrjhenphznajhpxtjhtxgjchaxshejshjvmjgpjp,
uffxsqngbhoxhoejnsh p uyhussugbjtjgok

Znoehenpheuino uyhfxgosxyhxrjshenphoex beop,hoex behejhoex beohuyyhoenp
uix ohenphznaj,hejhqnqhgxohyjohenphoex beophposucha soejshnghsjbusqhox
ejsk

Oeuohtxsgngbhzuphuhrjscha yyhxgjhaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhOejhjrjgngb
ijaxsj,hFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhpjgohenthuhmutmeyjohichuhfjyjisuojq
osurjyjshnghFengu,hzexhzuphpoucngbhnghMjojspi sb,hugqhznoehnohpej
jgfyxpjqhuhgxojhijbbngbhenthoxhpjjhoejhosurjyjshentpjya,huphejhzuphug
jvosjtjychngojsjpongbhmjspxghasxthrusnx phmxngophxahrnjz,hugqhynljychox
ijh pja ykhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhgxoheuqhontjhoxhsjuqhoejhmutmeyjo
oesx behnghoejhjrjgngb,hugqhangnpejqhnohnghoejhtxsgngbkhOejghmjxmyj
ijbughussnrngbhznoehmjononxgp,hugqhoejsjhfutjhoejhsjmxsop,hngojsrnjzp,
ummxngotjgop,hqnptnppuyp,hummxsonxgtjgohxahsjzusqp,hmjgpnxgp,hbsugop,
gxojp,hoejhzxsluquchsx gq,huphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfuyyjqhno,hoeuo
uyzucphoxxlh mhpxht fehontjkhOejghoejsjhzuphmsnruojhi pngjpphxahenp
xzg,huhrnpnohasxthoejhqxfoxshugqhoejhpojzusqhzexhtugubjqhenphmsxmjsock
Oejhpojzusqhqnqhgxohouljh mht fehontjkhEjhpntmychburjhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehoejhtxgjchejhgjjqjqhoxbjoejshznoehuhisnjahpouojtjgohxa
oejhmxpnonxghxahenphuaaunsp,hzenfehzuphgxohuyoxbjoejshpuonpaufoxsc,hup
noheuqheummjgjqhoeuohq sngbhoeuohcjus,hxzngbhoxhngfsjupjqhjvmjgpjp,
txsjheuqhijjghmunqhx ohoeugh p uy,hugqhoejsjhzuphuhqjanfnokhI ohoej
qxfoxs,huhfjyjisuojqhMjojspi sbhqxfoxs,hzexhzuphughngontuoj
ufw ungougfjhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hoxxlh mhuhbsjuohqjuyhxahontjk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhgxohjvmjfojqhenthoeuohquc,hugqhzuphp smsnpjq
uohenphrnpno,hugqhponyyhtxsjhpxhzejghoejhqxfoxshw jponxgjqhenthrjsc
fusja yychuix ohenphejuyoe,hynpojgjqhoxhenphisjuoengb,hugqhoummjqhuo
enphynrjskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohlgxzhoeuohenphasnjgqhYnqnu
Nrugxrgu,hgxonfngbhoeuohejhzuphgxohuphzjyyhuph p uyhoeuohcjus,heuq
ijbbjqhoejhqxfoxshoxhbxhugqhjvutngjhentkh“Qxhoenphaxshtchpulj,”hoej
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhpunqhoxhentk

“NhznyyhqxhnohaxshoejhpuljhxahS ppnu,hfx gojpp,”hsjmynjqhoejhqxfoxsk

“Uhmsnfjyjpphtug!”hpunqhoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk

OejhqxfoxshzuphjvosjtjychqnppuonpanjqhznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhEj
ax gqhoejhynrjshfxgpnqjsuiychjgyusbjq,hugqhoejhqnbjponrjhmxzjsp
zjuljgjq,hzenyjhoejhfx spjhxahtngjsuyhzuojspheuqhijjghw nojhznoex o
jaajfokhEjhmsjpfsnijqhtxsjhmecpnfuyhjvjsfnpjhuphaushuphmxppniyj,hugqhup
aushuphmxppniyjhyjpphtjgouyhposung,hugqhuixrjhuyyhgxhzxssc—nghxoejs
zxsqp,h. pohzeuohzuphupht fehx ohxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phmxzjshup
uipoungngbhasxthisjuoengbkhOejghejhznoeqsjz,hyjurngbhnghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehugh gmyjupugohpjgpjhoeuohpxtjoengbhzuphzsxgbhznoehent,
ugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhfeugfjhxahf sngbhnok

Uphejhzuphfxtngbhuzuc,hoejhqxfoxshfeugfjqhoxhtjjohxghoejhpounsfupjhug
ufw ungougfjhxahenp,hPy qng,hzexhzuphpjfsjouschxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’phqjmusotjgokhOejcheuqhijjghfxtsuqjphuohoejh gnrjspnoc,
ugqhoex behoejchsusjychtjo,hoejchoex beohenbeychxahjufehxoejshugqhzjsj
jvfjyyjgohasnjgqp,hugqhpxhoejsjhzuphgxhxgjhoxhzexthoejhqxfoxshzx yq
eurjhbnrjghenphxmngnxghxahuhmuonjgohpxhasjjychuphoxhPy qngk

“ExzhbyuqhNhuthcx ’rjhijjghpjjngbhent!”hpunqhPy qngkh“Ej’phgxohzjyy,
ugqhNhaugfckkkkhZjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hoenglhxahent?”

“N’yyhojyyhcx ,”hpunqhoejhqxfoxs,hijflxgngbhxrjshPy qng’phejuqhoxhenp
fxufetughoxhisngbhoejhfussnubjhsx gqkh“No’ph. pohoenp,”hpunqhoej
qxfoxs,houlngbhuhangbjshxahenphlnqhbyxrjhnghenphzenojheugqphugqhm yyngb
no,h“nahcx hqxg’ohposunghoejhposngbp,hugqhoejghoschoxhisjulhoejt,
cx ’yyhangqhnohuhqnaanf yoh.xi;hi ohposunghuhposngbhoxhnophrjsch otxpo,
ugqhoejhtjsjhzjnbeohxahxgjhangbjshxghoejhposungjqhposngbhznyyhpgumhnok
Ugqhznoehenphfyxpjhuppnq noc,henphfxgpfnjgonx phqjrxonxghoxhenphzxsl,
ej’phposungjqhoxhoejh otxpo;hugqhoejsj’phpxtjhx opnqjhi sqjghzjnbengb
xghent,hugqhgxohuhynbeohxgj,”hfxgfy qjqhoejhqxfoxs,hsunpngbhenp
jcjisxzphpnbgnanfugoyckh“Znyyhcx hijhuohoejhsufjp?”hejhuqqjq,huphej
puglhngoxhenphpjuohnghoejhfussnubjk

“Cjp,hcjp,hoxhijhp sj;hnohqxjphzupojhuhyxohxahontj,”hoejhqxfoxs
sjpmxgqjqhrub jychoxhpxtjhsjmychxahPy qng’phejheuqhgxohfu beok

Qnsjfoychuaojshoejhqxfoxs,hzexheuqhouljgh mhpxht fehontj,hfutjhoej
fjyjisuojqhosurjyjs,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hichtjugphxahoej
mutmeyjohejheuqhxgych. pohangnpejqhsjuqngbhugqhenphmsjrnx p
ufw ungougfjhznoehoejhp i.jfo,hntmsjppjqhoejhosurjyjshichoejhqjmoehxa
enphlgxzyjqbjhxahoejhp i.jfohugqhoejhisjuqoehugqhjgynbeojgtjgohxahenp
rnjzhxahnok

Uohoejhputjhontjhuphoejhosurjyjshoejsjhzuphuggx gfjqhuhmsxrngfnuy
tuspeuyhxahgxinynochxghuhrnpnohoxhMjojspi sb,hznoehzexthUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhoxheurjhpxtjhfxgrjspuonxgkhUaojshenphqjmuso sj,hej
euqhoxhangnpehoejhqunychsx ongjhxahi pngjpphznoehenphpjfsjousc,hugq
oejghejhponyyheuqhoxhqsnrjhsx gqhoxhfuyyhxghuhfjsounghbsjuohmjspxgubj
xghuhtuoojshxahbsurjhugqhpjsnx phntmxsokhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehxgyc
. pohtugubjqhoxhijhiuflhichanrjhx’fyxfl,henphqnggjs-ex s,hugqhuaojs
qngngbhznoehenphpjfsjousc,hejhngrnojqhenthoxhqsnrjhznoehenthoxhenp
fx goschrnyyuhugqhoxhoejhsufjpk

Oex behejhqnqhgxohuflgxzyjqbjhnohoxhentpjya,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
uyzucphosnjqhgxzuqucphoxhpjf sjhoejhmsjpjgfjhxahuhoensqhmjspxghnghenp
ngojsrnjzphznoehenphznajk


Feumojsh27

Ugguhzuph mpounsp,hpougqngbhijaxsjhoejhyxxlngb-byupp,hugq,hznoe
Ugg pelu’phuppnpougfj,hmnggngbhoejhyupohsniixghxghejshbxzghzejghpej
ejusqhfussnubjhzejjyphfs gfengbhoejhbsurjyhuohoejhjgosugfjk

“No’phoxxhjusychaxshIjopc,”hpejhoex beo,hugqhbyugfngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxz
pejhfu beohpnbeohxahoejhfussnubjhugqhoejhiyuflheuohxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhoejhjusphoeuohpejhlgjzhpxhzjyyhponflngbh mhjufe
pnqjhxahnokh“Exzh gy flc!hFughejhijhbxngbhoxhpouchoejhgnbeo?”hpej
zxgqjsjq,hugqhoejhoex beohxahuyyhoeuohtnbeohfxtjhxahp fehuhfeugfj
pos flhejshuphpxhuza yhugqhojssniyjhoeuo,hznoex ohqzjyyngbhxghnohaxshu
txtjgo,hpejhzjgohqxzghoxhtjjohenthznoehuhisnbeohugqhsuqnugohaufj;hugq
fxgpfnx phxahoejhmsjpjgfjhxahoeuohpmnsnohxahauypjexxqhugqhqjfjnohng
ejspjyahoeuohpejheuqhfxtjhoxhlgxzhxahyuoj,hpejhuiugqxgjqhejspjyahox
oeuohpmnsnohugqhijbughouylngb,heusqychlgxzngbhzeuohpejhzuphpucngbk

“Ue,hexzhgnfjhxahcx !”hpejhpunq,hbnrngbhejshe piugqhejsheugq,hugq
bsjjongbhPy qng,hzexhzuphynljhxgjhxahoejhautnyc,hznoehuhptnyjkh“Cx ’sj
poucngbhoejhgnbeo,hNhexmj?”hzuphoejhanspohzxsqhoejhpmnsnohxahauypjexxq
msxtmojqhejshoxh oojs;h“ugqhgxzhzj’yyhbxhoxbjoejskhXgychno’phuhmnoc
N’rjhmsxtnpjqhIjopckhPej’phfxtngbhaxshtjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlgnohenphisxzphuohIjopc’phgutjk

“Xe,hN’thgxohbxngbhoxhpjmusuojhoejhngpjmusuiyjp,”hejhpunqhnghenph p uy
iugojsngbhoxgjkh“N’thbxngbhznoehTneunyhRuppnynjrnofekhN’thxsqjsjq
jvjsfnpjhichoejhqxfoxsphoxxkhN’yyhzuyl,hugqhaugfchtcpjyahuohoejhpmsngbp
ubungk”

“Oejsj’phgxhe ssc,”hpunqhUggukh“Zx yqhcx hynljhoju?”

Pejhsugbk

“Isngbhnghoju,hugqhojyyhPjscxdeuhoeuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehnphejsjk
Zjyy,hojyyhtj,hexzheurjhcx hijjg?hTneunyhRuppnynjrnofe,hcx ’rjhgxohijjg
oxhpjjhtjhijaxsjkhYxxlhexzhyxrjychnohnphx ohxghoejhojssufj,”hpejhpunq,
o sgngbhanspohoxhxgjhugqhoejghoxhoejhxoejsk

Pejhpmxljhrjschpntmychugqhguo suyyc,hi ohoxxht fehugqhoxxhaupokhPejhzup
oejhtxsjhuzusjhxahoenphasxthgxonfngbhnghoejhngw npnonrjhyxxlhTneuny
Ruppnynjrnofeho sgjqhxghejshoeuohejhzup,huphnohzjsj,hljjmngbhzuofehxg
ejsk

TneunyhRuppnynjrnofehmsxtmoychzjgohx ohxghoejhojssufjk

Pejhpuohqxzghijpnqjhejshe piugqk

“Cx hqxg’ohyxxlhw nojhzjyy,”hpejhpunqk

“Cjp,”hejhpunq;h“oejhqxfoxs’phijjghznoehtjhoxquchugqhzupojqhughex shxa
tchontjkhNhajjyhoeuohpxtjxgjhxahx shasnjgqpht poheurjhpjgohent:htc
ejuyoe’phpxhmsjfnx p,hnohpjjtpk”

“Gx;hzeuohqnqhejhpuc?”

Pejhw jponxgjqhenthuix ohenphejuyoehugqhzeuohejheuqhijjghqxngb,hugq
osnjqhoxhmjsp uqjhenthoxhouljhuhsjpohugqhfxtjhx ohoxhejsk

Uyyhoenphpejhpunqhisnbeoyc,hsumnqyc,hugqhznoehuhmjf ynushisnyynugfjhng
ejshjcjpkhI ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohgxzhuooufehugchpmjfnuy
pnbgnanfugfjhoxhoenphoxgjhxahejspkhEjhejusqhxgychejshzxsqphugqhburj
oejthxgychoejhqnsjfohpjgpjhoejchixsjkhUgqhejhugpzjsjqhpntmyc,hoex be
.jpongbyckhOejsjhzuphgxoengbhsjtusluiyjhnghuyyhoenphfxgrjspuonxg,hi o
gjrjshuaojshfx yqhUgguhsjfuyyhoenphisnjahpfjgjhznoex ohughubxgndngb
mugbhxahpeutjk

PjscxdeuhfutjhnghmsjfjqjqhichenphbxrjsgjppkhNahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
euqhuyyxzjqhentpjyahoxhxipjsrjhejhzx yqheurjhgxonfjqhoejhontnqhugq
ijznyqjsjqhjcjphznoehzenfehPjscxdeuhbyugfjqhanspohuohenphauoejshugq
oejghuohenphtxoejskhI ohejhzx yqhgxohpjjhugcoengb,hugqhejhqnqhgxohpjj
nok

“Ue,hoejhcx gbhtug!hEj’phbsxzgkhSjuyyc,hej’phbjoongbhw nojhuhtugkhExz
usjhcx ,hcx gbhtug?”

UgqhejhburjhenpheugqhoxhoejhpfusjqhfenyqkhPjscxdeuheuqhijjghpechxahenp
auoejshijaxsj,hugqhgxz,hjrjshpngfjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhouljghox
fuyyngbhenthcx gbhtug,hugqhpngfjhoeuohngpxy iyjhw jponxgheuqhxff ssjq
oxhenthzejoejshRsxgplchzjsjhuhasnjgqhxshuhaxj,hejhurxnqjqhenphauoejsk
Ejhyxxljqhsx gqhoxzusqphenphtxoejshuphoex behpjjlngbhpejyojskhNohzup
xgychznoehenphtxoejshoeuohejhzuphuohjupjkhTjugzenyj,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzuphexyqngbhenphpxghichoejhpex yqjshzenyjhejhzup
pmjulngbhoxhoejhbxrjsgjpp,hugqhPjscxdeuhzuphpxhtnpjsuiych gfxtaxsouiyj
oeuohUgguhpuzhejhzuphxghoejhmxngohxahojuspk

Uggu,hzexheuqhay pejqhuhynooyjhoejhngpougohejshpxghfutjhng,hgxonfngb
oeuohPjscxdeuhzuph gfxtaxsouiyj,hbxoh mhe ssnjqyc,hoxxlhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’pheugqhasxthejshpxg’phpex yqjs,hugqhlnppngbhoejhixc,hyjq
enthx ohxgoxhoejhojssufj,hugqhw nflychfutjhiuflk

“No’phontjhoxhpouso,hoex be,”hpunqhpej,hbyugfngbhuohejshzuofekh“Exzhnp
nohIjopchqxjpg’ohfxtj?kkk”

“Cjp,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhbjoongbh m,hejhaxyqjqhenpheugqp
ugqhfsufljqhenphangbjspkh“N’rjhfxtjhoxhisngbhcx hpxtjhtxgjc,hoxx,haxs
gnbeongbuyjp,hzjhlgxz,hfug’ohynrjhxghaunschouyjp,”hejhpunqkh“Cx hzugo
no,hNhjvmjfo?”

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohkkkhcjp,hNhqx,”hpejhpunq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohent,hugq
fsntpxgngbhoxhoejhsxxophxahejsheunskh“I ohcx ’yyhfxtjhiuflhejsjhuaojs
oejhsufjp,hNhp mmxpj?”

“Xe,hcjp!”hugpzjsjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Ugqhejsj’phoejhbyxschxa
Mjojsexa,hMsngfjpphOrjsplucu,”hejhuqqjq,hyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhuo
oejhjyjbugohJgbynpehfussnubjhznoehoejhongchpjuophmyufjqhjvosjtjychenbek
“Zeuohjyjbugfj!hFeustngb!hZjyy,hyjoh phijhpousongbhoxx,hoejgk”

MsngfjpphOrjsplucuhqnqhgxohbjohx ohxahejshfussnubj,hi ohejshbsxxt,hng
enbehixxop,huhfumj,hugqhiyuflheuo,hqusojqhx ohuohoejhjgosugfjk

“N’thbxngb;hbxxq-icj!”hpunqhUggu,hugqhlnppngbhejshpxg,hpejhzjgoh mhox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhejyqhx ohejsheugqhoxhentkh“Nohzuphjrjshpx
gnfjhxahcx hoxhfxtjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlnppjqhejsheugqk

“Zjyy,h_u hsjrxns_,hoejg!hCx ’yyhfxtjhiuflhaxshpxtjhoju;hoeuo’p
qjynbeoa y!”hpejhpunq,hugqhzjgohx o,hbuchugqhsuqnugokhI ohuphpxxghup
pejhgxhyxgbjshpuzhent,hpejhzuphuzusjhxahoejhpmxohxghejsheugqhoeuohenp
ynmpheuqhox fejq,hugqhpejhpe qqjsjqhznoehsjm ypnxgk


Feumojsh28

ZejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjufejqhoejhsufj-fx spj,hUgguhzuphuysjuqc
pnoongbhnghoejhmurnynxghijpnqjhIjopc,hnghoeuohmurnynxghzejsjhuyyhoej
enbejpohpxfnjocheuqhbuoejsjqkhPejhfu beohpnbeohxahejshe piugqhnghoej
qnpougfjkhOzxhtjg,hejshe piugqhugqhejshyxrjs,hzjsjhoejhozxhfjgojsphxa
ejshjvnpojgfj,hugqh gunqjqhichejshjvojsguyhpjgpjphpejhzuphuzusjhxa
oejnshgjusgjppkhPejhzuphuzusjhxahejshe piugqhummsxufengbhuhyxgbhzuc
xaa,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohejymhaxyyxzngbhenthnghoejhp sbngbhfsxzqhnghoej
tnqpohxahzenfehejhzuphtxrngbkhPejhzuofejqhenphmsxbsjpphoxzusqphoej
murnynxg,hpuzhenthgxzhsjpmxgqngbhfxgqjpfjgqngbychoxhughngbsuonuongb
ixz,hgxzhjvfeugbngbhasnjgqyc,hgxgfeuyugohbsjjongbphznoehenphjw uyp,hgxz
uppnq x pychoscngbhoxhfuofehoejhjcjhxahpxtjhbsjuohxgjhxahoenphzxsyq,
ugqhoulngbhxaahenphinbhsx gqheuohoeuohpw jjdjqhoejhonmphxahenphjuspk
Uyyhoejpjhzucphxahenphpejhlgjz,hugqhuyyhzjsjheuoja yhoxhejskh“Gxoengb
i ohutinonxg,hgxoengbhi ohoejhqjpnsjhoxhbjohxg,hoeuo’phuyyhoejsjhnphng
enphpx y,”hpejhoex beo;h“uphaxshoejpjhyxaochnqjuyp,hyxrjhxahf yo sj,
sjynbnxg,hoejchusjhxgychpxhtugchoxxyphaxshbjoongbhxgk”

Asxthenphbyugfjphoxzusqphoejhyuqnjp’hmurnynxgh(ejhzuphpousngbhposunbeo
uohejs,hi ohqnqhgxohqnpongb npehenphznajhnghoejhpjuhxaht pyng,hsniixgp,
ajuoejsp,hmusupxyphugqhayxzjsp)hpejhpuzhoeuohejhzuphyxxlngbhaxshejs,
i ohpejhm smxpjychurxnqjqhgxonfngbhentk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!”hMsngfjpphIjopchfuyyjqhoxhent;h“N’thp sjhcx 
qxg’ohpjjhcx shznaj:hejsjhpejhnpk”

Ejhptnyjqhenphfenyychptnyjk

“Oejsj’phpxht fehpmyjgqxshejsjhoeuohxgj’phjcjphusjhquddyjq,”hejhpunq,
ugqhejhzjgohngoxhoejhmurnynxgkhEjhptnyjqhoxhenphznajhuphuhtughpex yq
ptnyjhxghtjjongbhenphznajhuaojshxgych. pohmusongbhasxthejs,hugqhbsjjojq
oejhmsngfjpphugqhxoejshufw ungougfjp,hbnrngbhoxhjufehzeuohzuphq j—oeuo
nphoxhpuc,h.jpongbhznoehoejhyuqnjphugqhqjuyngbhx ohasnjgqychbsjjongbp
utxgbhoejhtjgkhIjyxz,hgjushoejhmurnynxg,hzuphpougqngbhug
uq. ougo-bjgjsuyhxahzexthUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhuhenbehxmngnxg,
gxojqhaxshenphngojyynbjgfjhugqhf yo sjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehjgojsjq
ngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehentk

Oejsjhzuphughngojsruyhijozjjghoejhsufjp,hugqhpxhgxoengbhengqjsjq
fxgrjspuonxgkhOejhuq. ougo-bjgjsuyhjvmsjppjqhenphqnpummsxruyhxahsufjpk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjmynjqhqjajgqngbhoejtkhUgguhejusqhenphenbe,
tjup sjqhoxgjp,hgxohyxpngbhxgjhzxsq,hugqhjrjschzxsqhpos flhejshup
auypj,hugqhpouiijqhejshjusphznoehmungk

Zejghoejhoesjj-tnyjhpojjmyjfeupjhzuphijbnggngb,hpejhijgohaxszusqhugq
budjqhznoehanvjqhjcjphuohRsxgplchuphejhzjgoh mhoxhenphexspjhugq
tx gojq,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhpejhejusqhoeuohyxuoepxtj,hgjrjs-fjupngb
rxnfjhxahejshe piugqkhPejhzuphnghughubxgchxahojssxshaxshRsxgplc,hi ohu
ponyyhbsjuojshubxgchzuphoejhgjrjs-fjupngb,huphnohpjjtjqhoxhejs,hposjut
xahejshe piugq’phpesnyyhrxnfjhznoehnophautnynushngoxguonxgpk

“N’thuhznfljqhzxtug,huhyxpohzxtug,”hpejhoex beo;h“i ohNhqxg’ohynlj
ycngb,hNhfug’ohjgq sjhauypjexxq,hzenyjhuphaxsh_ent_h(ejshe piugq)hno’p
oejhisjuoehxahenphynaj—auypjexxqkhEjhlgxzphuyyhuix ohno,hejhpjjphno
uyy;hzeuohqxjphejhfusjhnahejhfughouylhpxhfuytyc?hNahejhzjsjhoxhlnyyhtj,
nahejhzjsjhoxhlnyyhRsxgplc,hNhtnbeohsjpmjfohentkhGx,huyyhejhzugophnp
auypjexxqhugqhmsxmsnjoc,”hUgguhpunqhoxhejspjya,hgxohfxgpnqjsngbhjvufoyc
zeuohnohzuphpejhzugojqhxahejshe piugq,hugqhexzhpejhzx yqheurjhynljqhox
pjjhenthijeurjkhPejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhjnoejshoeuohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’phmjf ynushyxw ufnochoeuohquc,hpxhjvupmjsuongbhoxhejs,
zuphtjsjychoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphngzusqhqnposjpphugqh gjupngjppkhUphu
fenyqhoeuoheuphijjghe sohplnmphuix o,hm oongbhuyyhenpht pfyjphngox
txrjtjgohoxhqsxzghoejhmung,hnghoejhputjhzuchUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
gjjqjqhtjgouyhjvjsfnpjhoxhqsxzghoejhoex beophxahenphznajhoeuohnghejs
msjpjgfjhugqhnghRsxgplc’p,hugqhznoehoejhfxgong uyhnojsuonxghxahenp
gutj,hzx yqhaxsfjhoejtpjyrjphxghenphuoojgonxgkhUgqhnohzuphuphguo suy
axshenthoxhouylhzjyyhugqhfyjrjsyc,huphnohnphguo suyhaxshuhfenyqhoxhplnm
uix okhEjhzuphpucngb:

“Qugbjshnghoejhsufjphxahxaanfjsp,hxahfuruyschtjg,hnphughjppjgonuy
jyjtjgohnghoejhsufjkhNahJgbyugqhfughmxngohoxhoejhtxpohisnyynugohajuop
xahfuruyschnghtnynouschenpoxsc,hnohnphpntmychxzngbhoxhoejhaufohoeuohpej
euphenpoxsnfuyychqjrjyxmjqhoenphaxsfjhixoehnghijupophugqhnghtjgkhPmxso
eup,hnghtchxmngnxg,huhbsjuohruy j,hugqhuphnphuyzucphoejhfupj,hzjhpjj
gxoengbhi ohzeuohnphtxpohp mjsanfnuyk”

“No’phgxohp mjsanfnuy,”hpunqhMsngfjpphOrjsplucukh“Xgjhxahoejhxaanfjsp,
oejchpuc,heuphisxljghozxhsnipk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjqhenphptnyj,hzenfeh gfxrjsjqhenphojjoe,hi o
sjrjuyjqhgxoengbhtxsjk

“Zj’yyhuqtno,hmsngfjpp,hoeuohoeuo’phgxohp mjsanfnuy,”hejhpunq,h“i o
ngojsguykhI ohoeuo’phgxohoejhmxngo,”hugqhejho sgjqhubunghoxhoejhbjgjsuy
znoehzexthejhzuphouylngbhpjsnx pyc;h“zjht pog’ohaxsbjohoeuohoexpjhzex
usjhoulngbhmusohnghoejhsufjhusjhtnynouschtjg,hzexheurjhfexpjghoeuo
fusjjs,hugqhxgjht pohuyyxzhoeuohjrjschfuyyngbheuphnophqnpubsjjuiyj
pnqjkhNohaxstphughngojbsuyhmusohxahoejhq onjphxahughxaanfjskhYxz
pmxsop,hp fehuphmsndj-anbeongbhxshPmugnpehi yy-anbeop,husjhuhpnbghxa
iusiusnockhI ohpmjfnuyndjqhosnuyphxahplnyyhusjhuhpnbghxahqjrjyxmtjgok”

“Gx,hNhpeug’ohfxtjhugxoejshontj;hno’phoxxh mpjoongb,”hpunqhMsngfjpp
Ijopckh“Npg’ohno,hUggu?”

“Nohnph mpjoongb,hi ohxgjhfug’ohojushxgjpjyahuzuc,”hpunqhugxoejshyuqck
“NahN’qhijjghuhSxtughzxtughNhpex yqhgjrjsheurjhtnppjqhuhpngbyjhfnsf pk”

Ugguhpunqhgxoengb,hugqhljjmngbhejshxmjsu-byupph m,hbudjqhuyzucphuohoej
putjhpmxok

Uohoeuohtxtjgohuhouyyhbjgjsuyhzuyljqhoesx behoejhmurnynxgkhIsjulngbhxaa
zeuohejhzuphpucngb,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbxoh mhe ssnjqyc,hoex behznoe
qnbgnoc,hugqhixzjqhyxzhoxhoejhbjgjsuyk

“Cx ’sjhgxohsufngb?”hoejhxaanfjshupljq,hfeuaangbhentk

“Tchsufjhnphuheusqjshxgj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjpmxgqjq
qjajsjgonuyyck

Ugqhoex behoejhugpzjshtjugohgxoengb,hoejhbjgjsuyhyxxljqhuphoex behej
euqhejusqhuhznoochsjtuslhasxthuhznoochtug,hugqha yychsjynpejqh_yu
mxngojhqjhyuhpu fj_k

“Oejsjhusjhozxhupmjfop,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjp tjq:h“oexpjhzexhoulj
musohugqhoexpjhzexhyxxlhxg;hugqhyxrjhaxshp fehpmjfoufyjphnphug
 gtnpouluiyjhmsxxahxahuhyxzhqjbsjjhxahqjrjyxmtjgohnghoejhpmjfouoxs,hN
uqtno,hi okkkk”

“Msngfjpp,hijop!”hpx gqjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phrxnfjhasxthijyxz,
uqqsjppngbhIjopckh“Zex’phcx shaurxsnoj?”

“UgguhugqhNhusjhaxshL dxryjr,”hsjmynjqhIjopck

“N’thaxshRsxgplckhUhmunshxahbyxrjp?”

“Qxgj!”

“I ohnohnphuhmsjoochpnbeo,hnpg’ohno?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmu pjqhzenyjhoejsjhzuphouylngbhuix ohent,hi ohej
ijbughubunghqnsjfoyck

“Nhuqtnohoeuohtugychpmxsophqxhgxokkkk”hejhzuphfxgong ngbk

I ohuohoeuohtxtjgohoejhsufjsphpousojq,hugqhuyyhfxgrjspuonxghfjupjqk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxhzuphpnyjgo,hugqhjrjscxgjhpoxxqh mhugqho sgjq
oxzusqphoejhposjutkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhgxhngojsjpohnghoejhsufj,
ugqhpxhejhqnqhgxohzuofehoejhsufjsp,hi ohajyyhynpoyjppychoxhpfuggngbhoej
pmjfouoxsphznoehenphzjuschjcjpkhEnphjcjphsjpojqh mxghUgguk

EjshaufjhzuphzenojhugqhpjokhPejhzuphxirnx pychpjjngbhgxoengbhugqhgxhxgj
i ohxgjhtugkhEjsheugqheuqhfxgr ypnrjychfy ofejqhejshaug,hugqhpejhejyq
ejshisjuoekhEjhyxxljqhuohejshugqheuponycho sgjqhuzuc,hpfs ongndngb
xoejshaufjpk

“I ohejsj’phoenphyuqchoxx,hugqhxoejsphrjscht fehtxrjqhuphzjyy;hno’p
rjschguo suy,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxyqhentpjyakhEjhosnjqhgxohoxhyxxl
uohejs,hi oh gfxgpfnx pychenphjcjphzjsjhqsuzghoxhejskhEjhjvutngjqhoeuo
aufjhubung,hoscngbhgxohoxhsjuqhzeuohzuphpxhmyungychzsnoojghxghno,hugq
ubungpohenphxzghznyy,hznoehexssxshsjuqhxghnohzeuohejhqnqhgxohzugohox
lgxzk

Oejhanspohauyy—L dxryjr’p,huohoejhposjut—ubnouojqhjrjscxgj,hi ohUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhqnpongfoychxghUggu’phmuyj,hosn tmeugohaufjhoeuohoej
tughpejhzuphzuofengbheuqhgxohauyyjgkhZejg,huaojshTuexonghugqhRsxgplc
euqhfyjusjqhoejhzxspohiussnjs,hoejhgjvohxaanfjsheuqhijjghoesxzg
posunbeohxghenphejuqhuohnohugqhauouyychng. sjq,hugqhuhpe qqjshxahexssxs
muppjqhxrjshoejhzexyjhm iynf,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhoeuohUgguhqnq
gxohjrjghgxonfjhno,hugqheuqhpxtjhqnaanf yochnghsjuyndngbhzeuohoejchzjsj
ouylngbhxahuix ohejskhI ohtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojg,hugqhznoehbsjuojs
mjspnpojgfj,hejhzuofejqhejskhUggu,hzexyychjgbsxppjqhuphpejhzuphznoehoej
sufj,hijfutjhuzusjhxahejshe piugq’phfxyqhjcjphanvjqh mxghejshasxthxgj
pnqjk

Pejhbyugfjqhsx gqhaxshughngpougo,hyxxljqhngw nsngbychuohent,hugqhznoehu
pynbeohasxzgho sgjqhuzuchubungk

“Ue,hNhqxg’ohfusj!”hpejhpjjtjqhoxhpuchoxhent,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohxgfj
byugfjhuohenthubungk

Oejhsufjhzuphugh gy flchxgj,hugqhxahoejhpjrjgojjghxaanfjsphzexhsxqjhng
nohtxsjhoeugheuyahzjsjhoesxzghugqhe sokhOxzusqphoejhjgqhxahoejhsufj
jrjscxgjhzuphnghuhpouojhxahubnouonxg,hzenfehzuphngojgpnanjqhichoejhaufo
oeuohoejhOpushzuphqnpmyjupjqk


Feumojsh29

Jrjscxgjhzuphyx qychjvmsjppngbhqnpummsxiuonxg,hjrjscxgjhzuphsjmjuongbhu
mesupjhpxtjxgjheuqh oojsjq—“Oejhynxgphugqhbyuqnuoxsphznyyhijhoejhgjvo
oengb,”hugqhjrjscxgjhzuphajjyngbhexssnanjq;hpxhoeuohzejghRsxgplchajyy
oxhoejhbsx gq,hugqhUgguhtxugjqhuyx q,hoejsjhzuphgxoengbhrjschx ohxahoej
zuchnghnokhI ohuaojszusqphuhfeugbjhfutjhxrjshUggu’phaufjhzenfehsjuyyc
zuphijcxgqhqjfxs tkhPejh oojsychyxpohejshejuqkhPejhijbughay oojsngb
ynljhuhfubjqhinsq,huohxgjhtxtjgohzx yqheurjhbxoh mhugqhtxrjqhuzuc,huo
oejhgjvoho sgjqhoxhIjopck

“Yjoh phbx,hyjoh phbx!”hpejhpunqk

I ohIjopchqnqhgxohejushejskhPejhzuphijgqngbhqxzg,houylngbhoxhuhbjgjsuy
zexheuqhfxtjh mhoxhejsk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgoh mhoxhUgguhugqhfx sojx pychxaajsjqhejshenp
ustk

“Yjoh phbx,hnahcx hynlj,”hejhpunqhnghAsjgfe,hi ohUgguhzuphynpojgngbhox
oejhbjgjsuyhugqhqnqhgxohgxonfjhejshe piugqk

“Ej’phisxljghenphyjbhoxx,hpxhoejchpuc,”hoejhbjgjsuyhzuphpucngbkh“Oenp
nphijcxgqhjrjscoengbk”

Znoex ohugpzjsngbhejshe piugq,hUgguhynaojqhejshxmjsu-byupphugqhbudjq
oxzusqphoejhmyufjhzejsjhRsxgplcheuqhauyyjg;hi ohnohzuphpxhaushxaa,hugq
oejsjhzuphp fehuhfsxzqhxahmjxmyjhuix ohno,hoeuohpejhfx yqhtuljhx o
gxoengbkhPejhyunqhqxzghoejhxmjsu-byupp,hugqhzx yqheurjhtxrjqhuzuc,hi o
uohoeuohtxtjgohughxaanfjshbuyyxmjqh mhugqhtuqjhpxtjhuggx gfjtjgohoxhoej
OpuskhUgguhfsugjqhaxszusq,hynpojgngbk

“Ponru!hPonru!”hpejhfsnjqhoxhejshisxoejsk

I ohejshisxoejshqnqhgxohejushejskhUbunghpejhzx yqheurjhtxrjqhuzuck

“XgfjhtxsjhNhxaajshcx htchusthnahcx hzugohoxhijhbxngb,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hsjufengbhoxzusqphejsheugqk

Pejhqsjzhiuflhasxthenthznoehurjspnxg,hugqhznoex ohyxxlngbhnghenphaufj
ugpzjsjq:

“Gx,hgx,hyjohtjhij,hN’yyhpouck”

PejhpuzhgxzhoeuohasxthoejhmyufjhxahRsxgplc’phuffnqjgohughxaanfjshzup
s ggngbhufsxpphoejhfx spjhoxzusqphoejhmurnynxgkhIjopchzurjqhejs
eugqljsfenjahoxhentkhOejhxaanfjshisx beohoejhgjzphoeuohoejhsnqjshzup
gxohlnyyjq,hi ohoejhexspjheuqhisxljghnophiuflk

XghejusngbhoenphUgguhpuohqxzghe ssnjqyc,hugqhenqhejshaufjhnghejshaugk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhoeuohpejhzuphzjjmngb,hugqhfx yqhgxohfxgosxy
ejshojusp,hgxshjrjghoejhpxiphoeuohzjsjhpeulngbhejshixpxtkhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehpoxxqhpxhuphoxhpfsjjghejs,hbnrngbhejshontjhoxhsjfxrjs
ejspjyak

“AxshoejhoensqhontjhNhxaajshcx htchust,”hejhpunqhoxhejshuaojshuhynooyj
ontj,ho sgngbhoxhejskhUgguhbudjqhuohenthugqhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhpuck
MsngfjpphIjopchfutjhoxhejshsjpf jk

“Gx,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe;hNhisx beohUgguhugqhNhmsxtnpjqhoxhouljhejs
extj,”hm ohnghIjopck

“Jvf pjhtj,hmsngfjpp,”hejhpunq,hptnyngbhfx sojx pychi ohyxxlngbhejs
rjschanstychnghoejhaufj,h“i ohNhpjjhoeuohUggu’phgxohrjschzjyy,hugqhN
znpehejshoxhfxtjhextjhznoehtjk”

Ugguhyxxljqhuix ohejshnghuhasnbeojgjqhzuc,hbxoh mhp itnppnrjyc,hugq
yunqhejsheugqhxghejshe piugq’phustk

“N’yyhpjgqhoxhenthugqhangqhx o,hugqhyjohcx hlgxz,”hIjopchzenpmjsjqhox
ejsk

Uphoejchyjaohoejhmurnynxg,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huphuyzucp,houyljqhox
oexpjhejhtjo,hugqhUgguheuq,huphuyzucp,hoxhouylhugqhugpzjs;hi ohpejhzup
 oojsychijpnqjhejspjya,hugqhtxrjqheugbngbhxghejshe piugq’phusthup
oex behnghuhqsjutk

“Nphejhlnyyjqhxshgxo?hNphnohos j?hZnyyhejhfxtjhxshgxo?hPeuyyhNhpjjhent
oxquc?”hpejhzuphoenglngbk

Pejhoxxlhejshpjuohnghejshe piugq’phfussnubjhnghpnyjgfj,hugqhnghpnyjgfj
qsxrjhx ohxahoejhfsxzqhxahfussnubjpkhNghpmnojhxahuyyhejheuqhpjjg,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehponyyhqnqhgxohuyyxzhentpjyahoxhfxgpnqjshenp
znaj’phsjuyhfxgqnonxgkhEjhtjsjychpuzhoejhx ozusqhpctmoxtpkhEjhpuzhoeuo
pejhzuphijeurngbh gijfxtngbyc,hugqhfxgpnqjsjqhnohenphq ochoxhojyyhejs
pxkhI ohnohzuphrjschqnaanf yohaxshenthgxohoxhpuchtxsj,hoxhojyyhejs
gxoengbhi ohoeuokhEjhxmjgjqhenphtx oehoxhojyyhejshpejheuqhijeurjq
 gijfxtngbyc,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohejymhpucngbhpxtjoengbh oojsychqnaajsjgok

“Zeuohughngfynguonxghzjhuyyheurj,hoex be,haxshoejpjhfs jyhpmjfoufyjp,”
ejhpunqkh“Nhxipjsrjkkkk”

“Je?hNhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpunqhUgguhfxgojtmo x pyck

Ejhzuphxaajgqjq,hugqhuohxgfjhijbughoxhpuchzeuohejheuqhtjugohoxhpuck

“Nhuthxiynbjqhoxhojyyhcx ,”hejhijbugk

“Pxhgxzhzjhusjhoxheurjhnohx o,”hpejhoex beo,hugqhpejhajyohasnbeojgjqk

“Nhuthxiynbjqhoxhojyyhcx hoeuohcx shijeurnxsheuphijjgh gijfxtngb
oxquc,”hejhpunqhoxhejshnghAsjgfek

“Nghzeuohzucheuphtchijeurnxshijjgh gijfxtngb?”hpejhpunqhuyx q,ho sgngb
ejshejuqhpznaoychugqhyxxlngbhenthposunbeohnghoejhaufj,hgxohznoehoej
isnbeohjvmsjppnxghoeuohpjjtjqhfxrjsngbhpxtjoengb,hi ohznoehuhyxxlhxa
qjojstnguonxg,h gqjshzenfehpejhfxgfjuyjqhznoehqnaanf yochoejhqnptuchpej
zuphajjyngbk

“Tngq,”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoejhxmjghzngqxzhxmmxpnojhoejhfxufetugk

Ejhbxoh mhugqhm yyjqh mhoejhzngqxzk

“Zeuohqnqhcx hfxgpnqjsh gijfxtngb?”hpejhsjmjuojqk

“Oejhqjpmunshcx hzjsjh guiyjhoxhfxgfjuyhuohoejhuffnqjgohoxhxgjhxahoej
snqjspk”

Ejhzunojqhaxshejshoxhugpzjs,hi ohpejhzuphpnyjgo,hyxxlngbhposunbeo
ijaxsjhejsk

“Nheurjhuysjuqchijbbjqhcx hpxhoxhfxgq fohcx spjyahnghpxfnjochoeuohjrjg
tuynfnx phoxgb jphfughangqhgxoengbhoxhpuchubungpohcx khOejsjhzuphuhontj
zejghNhpmxljhxahcx shngzusqhuoono qj,hi ohNhuthgxohpmjulngbhxahoeuo
gxzkhGxzhNhpmjulhxgychxahcx shjvojsguyhuoono qjkhCx heurjhijeurjq
ntmsxmjsyc,hugqhNhzx yqhznpehnohgxohoxhxff shubungk”

Pejhqnqhgxohejusheuyahxahzeuohejhzuphpucngb;hpejhajyohmugnf-posnfljg
ijaxsjhent,hugqhzuphoenglngbhzejoejshnohzuphos jhoeuohRsxgplchzuphgxo
lnyyjqkhZuphnohxahenthoejchzjsjhpmjulngbhzejghoejchpunqhoejhsnqjshzup
 ge so,hi ohoejhexspjheuqhisxljghnophiufl?hPejhtjsjychptnyjqhznoehu
msjojgpjhxahnsxgchzejghejhangnpejq,hugqhtuqjhgxhsjmyc,hijfu pjhpejheuq
gxohejusqhzeuohejhpunqkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhijb ghoxhpmjul
ixyqyc,hi ohuphejhsjuyndjqhmyungychzeuohejhzuphpmjulngbhxa,hoejhqnptuc
pejhzuphajjyngbhngajfojqhenthoxxkhEjhpuzhoejhptnyj,hugqhuhposugbj
tnpummsjejgpnxghfutjhxrjshentk

“Pejhnphptnyngbhuohtchp pmnfnxgpkhCjp,hpejhznyyhojyyhtjhqnsjfoychzeuo
pejhoxyqhtjhijaxsj;hoeuohoejsjhnphgxhax gquonxghaxshtchp pmnfnxgp,hoeuo
no’phuip sqk”

Uohoeuohtxtjgo,hzejghoejhsjrjyuonxghxahjrjscoengbhzupheugbngbhxrjshent,
oejsjhzuphgxoengbhejhjvmjfojqhpxht fehuphoeuohpejhzx yqhugpzjs
txflngbychuphijaxsjhoeuohenphp pmnfnxgphzjsjhuip sqhugqh oojsyc
bsx gqyjppkhPxhojssniyjhoxhenthzuphzeuohejhlgjzhoeuohgxzhejhzuphsjuqc
oxhijynjrjhugcoengbkhI ohoejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshaufj,hpfusjqhugqhbyxxtc,
qnqhgxohgxzhmsxtnpjhjrjghqjfjmonxgk

“MxppniychNhzuphtnpouljg,”hpunqhejkh“Nahpx,hNhijbhcx shmusqxgk”

“Gx,hcx hzjsjhgxohtnpouljg,”hpejhpunqhqjynijsuojyc,hyxxlngbhqjpmjsuojyc
ngoxhenphfxyqhaufjkh“Cx hzjsjhgxohtnpouljgkhNhzup,hugqhNhfx yqhgxohejym
ijngbhnghqjpmunskhNhejushcx ,hi ohNhuthoenglngbhxahentkhNhyxrjhent,hN
uthenphtnposjpp;hNhfug’ohijushcx ;hN’thuasunqhxahcx ,hugqhNheuoj
cx kkkkhCx hfughqxhzeuohcx hynljhoxhtjk”

Ugqhqsxmmngbhiuflhngoxhoejhfxsgjshxahoejhfussnubj,hpejhisxljhngoxhpxip,
enqngbhejshaufjhnghejsheugqpkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohpons,hugq
ljmohyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsjhentkhI ohenphzexyjhaufjhp qqjgychixsjhoej
pxyjtghsnbnqnochxahoejhqjuq,hugqhenphjvmsjppnxghqnqhgxohfeugbjhq sngb
oejhzexyjhontjhxahoejhqsnrjhextjkhXghsjufengbhoejhex pjhejho sgjqhenp
ejuqhoxhejs,hponyyhznoehoejhputjhjvmsjppnxgk

“Rjschzjyy!hI ohNhjvmjfohuhposnfohxipjsrugfjhxahoejhjvojsguyhaxstphxa
msxmsnjochonyyhp fehontj”—enphrxnfjhpexxl—“uphNhtuchouljhtjup sjphox
pjf sjhtchexgxshugqhfxtt gnfuojhoejthoxhcx k”

Ejhbxohx ohanspohugqhejymjqhejshoxhbjohx okhIjaxsjhoejhpjsrugophej
msjppjqhejsheugq,hoxxlhenphpjuohnghoejhfussnubj,hugqhqsxrjhiuflhox
Mjojspi sbkhNttjqnuojychuaojszusqphuhaxxotughfutjhasxthMsngfjpphIjopc
ugqhisx beohUgguhuhgxojk

“NhpjgohoxhUyjvjchoxhangqhx ohexzhejhnp,hugqhejhzsnojphtjhejhnphw noj
zjyyhugqh ge so,hi ohnghqjpmunsk”

“Pxh_ej_hznyyhijhejsj,”hpejhoex beokh“ZeuohuhbxxqhoengbhNhoxyqhent
uyy!”

PejhbyugfjqhuohejshzuofekhPejheuqhponyyhoesjjhex sphoxhzuno,hugqhoej
tjtxsnjphxahoejnshyupohtjjongbhpjohejshiyxxqhnghayutjk

“TchBxq,hexzhynbeohnohnp!hNo’phqsjuqa y,hi ohNhqxhyxrjhoxhpjjhenphaufj,
ugqhNhqxhyxrjhoenphaugouponfhynbeokkkkhTche piugq!hXe!hcjpkkkkhZjyy,
oeuglhBxq!hjrjscoengb’phxrjshznoehentk”


Feumojsh30

NghoejhynooyjhBjstughzuojsngb-myufjhoxhzenfehoejhPeofejsiuoplcpheuq
ijouljghoejtpjyrjp,huphnghuyyhmyufjphngqjjqhzejsjhmjxmyjhusjhbuoejsjq
oxbjoejs,hoejh p uyhmsxfjpp,huphnohzjsj,hxahoejhfscpouyynduonxghxa
pxfnjochzjgohxg,huppnbgngbhoxhjufehtjtijshxahoeuohpxfnjochuhqjangnoj
ugqh guyojsuiyjhmyufjkh. pohuphoejhmusonfyjhxahzuojshnghasxpo,
qjangnojychugqh guyojsuiyc,houljphoejhpmjfnuyhaxsthxahoejhfscpouyhxa
pgxz,hpxhjufehgjzhmjspxghoeuohussnrjqhuohoejhpmsngbphzuphuohxgfjhmyufjq
nghenphpmjfnuyhmyufjk

_Aüspo_hPeofejsiuoplc,h_puttohBjtueyngh gqhOxfeojs_,hichoejhumusotjgop
oejchoxxl,hugqhasxthoejnshgutjhugqhasxthoejhasnjgqphoejchtuqj,hzjsj
nttjqnuojychfscpouyyndjqhngoxhuhqjangnojhmyufjhtusljqhx ohaxshoejtk

Oejsjhzuphrnpnongbhoejhzuojsngb-myufjhoeuohcjushuhsjuyhBjstughAüspong,
nghfxgpjw jgfjhxahzenfehoejhfscpouyyndngbhmsxfjpphzjgohxghtxsj
rnbxsx pychoeughjrjskhMsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucuhznpejq,huixrj
jrjscoengb,hoxhmsjpjgohejshqu beojshoxhoenphBjstughmsngfjpp,hugqhoej
quchuaojshoejnshussnruyhpejhq ychmjsaxstjqhoenphsnojkhLnoochtuqjhuhyxz
ugqhbsufja yhf sopjchnghoejh_rjschpntmyj_,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hrjschjyjbugo
asxflhoeuoheuqhijjghxsqjsjqhejshasxthMusnpkhOejhBjstughmsngfjpphpunq,
“Nhexmjhoejhsxpjphznyyhpxxghfxtjhiuflhoxhoenphmsjoochynooyjhaufj,”hugq
axshoejhPeofejsiuoplcphfjsounghqjangnojhyngjphxahjvnpojgfjhzjsjhuohxgfj
yunqhqxzghasxthzenfehoejsjhzuphgxhqjmusongbkhOejhPeofejsiuoplcphtuqj
oejhufw ungougfjhoxxhxahoejhautnychxahughJgbynpehYuqchPxtjixqc,hugqhxa
uhBjstughfx gojpphugqhejshpxg,hzx gqjqhnghoejhyupohzus,hugqhxahu
yjusgjqhPzjqj,hugqhxahTkhFug ohugqhenphpnpojskhI ohcjohngjrnouiychoej
PeofejsiuoplcphzjsjhoesxzghtxpohngoxhoejhpxfnjochxahuhTxpfxzhyuqc,
TuscuhCjrbjgcjrguhSonpeofejruhugqhejshqu beojs,hzexthLnoochqnpynljq,
ijfu pjhpejheuqhauyyjghnyy,hynljhejspjya,hxrjshuhyxrjhuaauns,hugqhu
Txpfxzhfxyxgjy,hzexthLnoocheuqhlgxzghasxthfenyqexxq,hugqhuyzucphpjjghng
 gnaxsthugqhjmu yjop,hugqhzexhgxz,hznoehenphynooyjhjcjphugqhenphxmjg
gjflhugqhayxzjsjqhfsuruo,hzuph gfxttxgychsnqnf yx phugqhojqnx p,
ijfu pjhoejsjhzuphgxhbjoongbhsnqhxahentkhZejghuyyhoenphzuphpxhanstyc
jpouiynpejq,hLnoochijbughoxhijhrjscht fehixsjq,hjpmjfnuyychuphoej
msngfjhzjgohuzuchoxhFusypiuqhugqhpejhzuphyjaohuyxgjhznoehejshtxoejsk
Pejhoxxlhgxhngojsjpohnghoejhmjxmyjhpejhlgjz,hajjyngbhoeuohgxoengbhasjpe
zx yqhfxtjhxahoejtkhEjshfenjahtjgouyhngojsjpohnghoejhzuojsngb-myufj
fxgpnpojqhnghzuofengbhugqhtulngbhoejxsnjphuix ohoejhmjxmyjhpejhqnqhgxo
lgxzkhNohzuphfeusufojsnponfhxahLnoochoeuohpejhuyzucphntubngjq
jrjscoengbhnghmjxmyjhnghoejhtxpohaurxsuiyjhynbeohmxppniyj,hjpmjfnuyyc
pxhnghoexpjhpejhqnqhgxohlgxzkhUgqhgxzhuphpejhtuqjhp stnpjphuphoxhzex
mjxmyjhzjsj,hzeuohzjsjhoejnshsjyuonxgphoxhxgjhugxoejs,hugqhzeuohoejc
zjsjhynlj,hLnoochjgqxzjqhoejthznoehoejhtxpohtusrjyx phugqhgxiyj
feusufojsp,hugqhax gqhfxganstuonxghxahejshnqjuhnghejshxipjsruonxgpk

XahoejpjhmjxmyjhoejhxgjhoeuohuoosufojqhejshtxpohzuphuhS ppnughbnsyhzex
euqhfxtjhoxhoejhzuojsngb-myufjhznoehughngruynqhS ppnughyuqc,hTuqutj
Pouey,huphjrjscxgjhfuyyjqhejskhTuqutjhPoueyhijyxgbjqhoxhoejhenbejpo
pxfnjoc,hi ohpejhzuphpxhnyyhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohzuyl,hugqhxgychxg
jvfjmonxguyychangjhqucphtuqjhejshummjusugfjhuohoejhpmsngbphnghug
ngruynqhfussnubjkhI ohnohzuphgxohpxht fehasxthnyy-ejuyoehuphasxt
msnqj—pxhMsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucuhngojsmsjojqhno—oeuohTuqutjhPoueyheuq
gxohtuqjhoejhufw ungougfjhxahugcxgjhutxgbhoejhS ppnugphoejsjkhOej
S ppnughbnsyhyxxljqhuaojshTuqutjhPouey,hugqhijpnqjphoeuo,hpejhzup,hup
Lnoochxipjsrjq,hxghasnjgqychojstphznoehuyyhoejhngruynqphzexhzjsj
pjsnx pychnyy,hugqhoejsjhzjsjhtugchxahoejthuohoejhpmsngbp,hugqhyxxljq
uaojshoejthnghoejhtxpohguo suyhzuckhOenphS ppnughbnsyhzuphgxo,huphLnooc
buoejsjq,hsjyuojqhoxhTuqutjhPouey,hgxshzuphpejhuhmunqhuoojgqugokhTuqutj
PoueyhfuyyjqhejshRusjglu,hugqhxoejshmjxmyjhfuyyjqhejsh“Tuqjtxnpjyyj
Rusjgluk”hUmusohasxthoejhngojsjpohLnoochoxxlhnghoenphbnsy’phsjyuonxgp
znoehTuqutjhPoueyhugqhznoehxoejsh glgxzghmjspxgp,hLnooc,huphxaojg
eummjgjq,hajyohughngjvmynfuiyjhuoosufonxghoxhTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjglu,hugq
zuphuzusjhzejghoejnshjcjphtjohoeuohpejhoxxhynljqhejsk

XahTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjgluhxgjhzx yqhgxohpuchoeuohpejheuqhmuppjqhejshanspo
cx oe,hi ohpejhzup,huphnohzjsj,huhfsjuo sjhznoex ohcx oe;hpejhtnbeo
eurjhijjghouljghaxshgngjojjghxshaxshoensockhNahejshajuo sjphzjsj
fsnonfndjqhpjmusuojyc,hpejhzupheugqpxtjhsuoejshoeughmyung,hnghpmnojhxa
oejhpnflyche jhxahejshaufjkhPejhzx yqheurjhijjghuhbxxqhanb sj,hoxx,hna
noheuqhgxohijjghaxshejshjvosjtjhoenggjpphugqhoejhpndjhxahejshejuq,
zenfehzuphoxxhyusbjhaxshejshtjqn thejnbeokhI ohpejhzuphgxohynljychoxhij
uoosufonrjhoxhtjgkhPejhzuphynljhuhangjhayxzjs,huysjuqchmupohnophiyxxt
ugqhznoex ohasubsugfj,hoex behoejhmjouyphzjsjhponyyh gznoejsjqk
Txsjxrjs,hpejhzx yqheurjhijjgh guoosufonrjhoxhtjghuypxhasxthoejhyuflhxa
. pohzeuohLnoocheuqhoxxht fehxa—xahoejhp mmsjppjqhansjhxahrnouynoc,hugq
oejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahejshxzghuoosufonrjgjppk

Pejhuyzucphpjjtjqhuipxsijqhnghzxslhuix ohzenfehoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx io,
ugqhpxhnohpjjtjqhpejhfx yqhgxohouljhngojsjpohnghugcoengbhx opnqjhnokhNo
zuph. pohoenphfxgosupohznoehejshxzghmxpnonxghoeuohzuphaxshLnoochoej
bsjuohuoosufonxghxahTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjglukhLnoochajyohoeuohnghejs,hng
ejshtuggjshxahynaj,hpejhzx yqhangqhughjvutmyjhxahzeuohpejhzuphgxzhpx
munga yychpjjlngb:hngojsjpohnghynaj,huhqnbgnochnghynaj—umusohasxthoej
zxsyqychsjyuonxgphxahbnsyphznoehtjg,hzenfehpxhsjrxyojqhLnooc,hugq
ummjusjqhoxhejshgxzhuphuhpeutja yheuzlngbhuix ohxahbxxqphnghpjusfehxahu
m sfeupjskhOejhtxsjhuoojgonrjychLnoochzuofejqhejsh glgxzghasnjgq,hoej
txsjhfxgrngfjqhpejhzuphoenphbnsyhzuphoejhmjsajfohfsjuo sjhpejhaugfnjq
ejs,hugqhoejhtxsjhjubjsychpejhznpejqhoxhtuljhejshufw ungougfjk

Oejhozxhbnsyph pjqhoxhtjjohpjrjsuyhontjphuhquc,hugqhjrjschontjhoejc
tjo,hLnooc’phjcjphpunq:h“Zexhusjhcx ?hZeuohusjhcx ?hUsjhcx hsjuyychoej
jvw npnojhfsjuo sjhNhntubngjhcx hoxhij?hI ohaxshbxxqgjpp’hpuljhqxg’o
p mmxpj,”hejshjcjphuqqjq,h“oeuohNhzx yqhaxsfjhtchufw ungougfjhxghcx ,hN
pntmychuqtnsjhcx hugqhynljhcx k”h“Nhynljhcx hoxx,hugqhcx ’sjhrjsc,hrjsc
pzjjokhUgqhNhpex yqhynljhcx hijoojshponyy,hnahNheuqhontj,”hugpzjsjqhoej
jcjphxahoejh glgxzghbnsykhLnoochpuzhngqjjq,hoeuohpejhzuphuyzucphi pck
JnoejshpejhzuphoulngbhoejhfenyqsjghxahuhS ppnughautnychextjhasxthoej
pmsngbp,hxshajofengbhuhpeuzyhaxshuhpnflhyuqc,hugqhzsummngbhejsh mhng
no,hxshoscngbhoxhngojsjpohughnssnouiyjhngruynq,hxshpjyjfongbhugqhi cngb
fuljphaxshojuhaxshpxtjxgjk

PxxghuaojshoejhussnruyhxahoejhPeofejsiuoplcphoejsjhummjusjqhnghoej
txsgngbhfsxzqhuohoejhpmsngbphozxhmjspxgphzexhuoosufojqh gnrjspuyhugq
 gaurxsuiyjhuoojgonxgkhOejpjhzjsjhuhouyyhtughznoehuhpoxxmngbhanb sj,
ugqhe bjheugqp,hnghughxyqhfxuohoxxhpexsohaxshent,hznoehiyufl,hpntmyj,
ugqhcjohojssniyjhjcjp,hugqhuhmxfltusljq,hlngq-yxxlngbhzxtug,hrjschiuqyc
ugqhoupojyjppychqsjppjqkhSjfxbgndngbhoejpjhmjspxgphuphS ppnugp,hLnooc
euqhuysjuqchnghejshntubnguonxghijb ghfxgpos fongbhuhqjynbeoa yhugq
ox fengbhsxtugfjhuix ohoejtkhI ohoejhmsngfjpp,heurngbhupfjsoungjqhasxt
oejhrnpnoxsp’hynpohoeuohoenphzuphGnlxyuchYjrnghugqhTuscuhGnlxyujrgu,
jvmyungjqhoxhLnoochzeuohuhiuqhtughoenphYjrnghzup,hugqhuyyhejshaugfnjp
uix ohoejpjhozxhmjxmyjhrugnpejqkhGxohpxht fehasxthzeuohejshtxoejshoxyq
ejs,huphasxthoejhaufohoeuohnohzuphLxgpougong’phisxoejs,hoenphmuns
p qqjgychpjjtjqhoxhLnoochngojgpjych gmyjupugokhOenphYjrng,hznoehenp
fxgong uyhoznofengbhxahenphejuq,husx pjqhnghejshgxzhughnssjmsjppniyj
ajjyngbhxahqnpb pok

Nohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuohenphinb,hojssniyjhjcjp,hzenfehmjspnpojgoyc
m sp jqhejs,hjvmsjppjqhuhajjyngbhxaheuosjqhugqhfxgojtmo,hugqhpejhosnjq
oxhurxnqhtjjongbhentk


Feumojsh31

Nohzuphuhzjohquc;hnoheuqhijjghsungngbhuyyhoejhtxsgngb,hugqhoej
ngruynqp,hznoehoejnshmusupxyp,heuqhayxfljqhngoxhoejhusfuqjpk

LnoochzuphzuylngbhoejsjhznoehejshtxoejshugqhoejhTxpfxzhfxyxgjy,hptuso
ugqh.u gochnghenphJ sxmjughfxuo,hix beohsjuqc-tuqjhuohAsuglaxsokhOejc
zjsjhzuylngbhxghxgjhpnqjhxahoejhusfuqj,hoscngbhoxhurxnqhYjrng,hzexhzup
zuylngbhxghoejhxoejshpnqjkhRusjglu,hnghejshquslhqsjpp,hnghuhiyuflheuo
znoehuho sg-qxzghisnt,hzuphzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghoejhzexyjhyjgboehxahoej
usfuqjhznoehuhiyngqhAsjgfezxtug,hugq,hjrjschontjhpejhtjohLnooc,hoejc
jvfeugbjqhasnjgqychbyugfjpk

“Tuttu,hfx yqg’ohNhpmjulhoxhejs?”hpunqhLnooc,hzuofengbhejsh glgxzg
asnjgq,hugqhgxonfngbhoeuohpejhzuphbxngbh mhoxhoejhpmsngb,hugqhoeuohoejc
tnbeohfxtjhoejsjhoxbjoejsk

“Xe,hnahcx hzugohoxhpxht fe,hN’yyhangqhx ohuix ohejshanspohugqhtuljhejs
ufw ungougfjhtcpjya,”hugpzjsjqhejshtxoejskh“Zeuohqxhcx hpjjhnghejshx o
xahoejhzuc?hUhfxtmugnxg,hpejht pohijkhNahcx hynlj,hN’yyhtulj
ufw ungougfjhznoehTuqutjhPouey;hNh pjqhoxhlgxzhejsh_ijyyj-pœ s_,”huqqjq
oejhmsngfjpp,hynaongbhejshejuqheu beonyck

LnoochlgjzhoeuohoejhmsngfjpphzuphxaajgqjqhoeuohTuqutjhPoueyheuqhpjjtjq
oxhurxnqhtulngbhejshufw ungougfjkhLnoochqnqhgxohngpnpok

“Exzhzxgqjsa yychpzjjohpejhnp!”hpejhpunq,hbudngbhuohRusjgluh. pohuphpej
eugqjqhuhbyupphoxhoejhAsjgfezxtugkh“Yxxlhexzhguo suyhugqhpzjjohnohuyy
npk”

“No’phpxha ggchoxhpjjhcx sh_jgbx jtjgop_,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppkh“Gx,hzj’q
ijoojshbxhiufl,”hpejhuqqjq,hgxonfngbhYjrnghfxtngbhoxzusqphoejthznoehenp
fxtmugnxghugqhuhBjstughqxfoxs,hoxhzexthejhzuphouylngbhrjschgxnpnychugq
ugbsnyck

Oejcho sgjqhoxhbxhiufl,hzejghp qqjgychoejchejusq,hgxohgxnpchouyl,hi o
pex ongbkhYjrng,hpoxmmngbhpexso,hzuphpex ongbhuohoejhqxfoxs,hugqhoej
qxfoxs,hoxx,hzuphjvfnojqkhUhfsxzqhbuoejsjqhuix ohoejtkhOejhmsngfjpphugq
Lnoochijuohuheupochsjosjuo,hzenyjhoejhfxyxgjyh.xngjqhoejhfsxzqhoxhangq
x ohzeuohzuphoejhtuoojsk

Uhajzhtng ojphyuojshoejhfxyxgjyhxrjsoxxlhoejtk

“Zeuohzuphno?”hngw nsjqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Pfugquyx phugqhqnpbsufja y!”hugpzjsjqhoejhfxyxgjykh“Oejhxgjhoengbhox
ijhqsjuqjqhnphtjjongbhS ppnugphuisxuqkhOeuohouyyhbjgoyjtughzuphui pngb
oejhqxfoxs,hayngbngbhuyyhpxsophxahngp yophuohenthijfu pjhejhzupg’o
osjuongbhenthw nojhuphejhynljq,hugqhejhijbughzurngbhenphponflhuohentk
No’phpntmychuhpfugquy!”

“Xe,hexzh gmyjupugo!”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppkh“Zjyy,hugqhexzhqnqhnohjgq?”

“Y flnychuohoeuohmxngohoeuohkkkhoejhxgjhnghoejht pesxxtheuohkkk
ngojsrjgjqkhUhS ppnughyuqc,hNhoenglhpejhnp,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyk

“TuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjglu?”hupljqhLnoock

“Cjp,hcjpkhPejhfutjhoxhoejhsjpf jhijaxsjhugcxgj;hpejhoxxlhoejhtughic
oejhusthugqhyjqhenthuzuck”

“Oejsj,htuttu,”hpunqhLnooc;h“cx hzxgqjshoeuohN’thjgoe pnuponfhuix o
ejsk”

Oejhgjvohquc,huphpejhzuofejqhejsh glgxzghasnjgq,hLnoochgxonfjqhoeuo
TuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjgluhzuphuysjuqchxghoejhputjhojstphznoehYjrnghugqhenp
fxtmugnxghuphznoehejshxoejsh_msxoébép_khPejhzjgoh mhoxhoejt,hjgojsjq
ngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejt,hugqhpjsrjqhuphngojsmsjojshaxshoejhzxtug,
zexhfx yqhgxohpmjulhugchaxsjnbghyugb ubjk

Lnoochijbughoxhjgosjuohejshtxoejshponyyhtxsjh sbjgoychoxhyjohejshtulj
asnjgqphznoehRusjglukhUgq,hqnpubsjjuiyjhuphnohzuphoxhoejhmsngfjpphox
pjjthoxhouljhoejhanspohpojmhnghznpengbhoxhtuljhoejhufw ungougfjhxa
TuqutjhPouey,hzexhoex beohanohoxhbnrjhejspjyahunsp,hpejhtuqjhngw nsnjp
uix ohRusjglu,hugq,heurngbhupfjsoungjqhmusonf yusphuix ohejshojgqngbhox
msxrjhoeuohoejsjhfx yqhijhgxheusthoex behynooyjhbxxqhnghoej
ufw ungougfj,hpejhejspjyahummsxufejqhRusjgluhugqhtuqjhufw ungougfjhznoe
ejsk

Fexxpngbhuhontjhzejghejshqu beojsheuqhbxgjhoxhoejhpmsngb,hzenyjhRusjglu
euqhpoxmmjqhx opnqjhoejhiuljs’p,hoejhmsngfjpphzjgoh mhoxhejsk

“Uyyxzhtjhoxhtuljhcx shufw ungougfj,”hpejhpunq,hznoehejshqnbgnanjq
ptnyjkh“Tchqu beojsheuphyxpohejshejusohoxhcx ,”hpejhpunqkh“Mxppniychcx 
qxhgxohlgxzhtjkhNhutkkkk”

“Oeuohajjyngbhnphtxsjhoeughsjfnmsxfuy,hmsngfjpp,”hRusjgluhugpzjsjq
e ssnjqyck

“Zeuohuhbxxqhqjjqhcx hqnqhcjpojsquchoxhx shmxxshfxtmuosnxo!”hpunqhoej
msngfjppk

Rusjgluhay pejqhuhynooyjkh“Nhqxg’ohsjtjtijskhNhqxg’ohoenglhNhqnq
ugcoengb,”hpejhpunqk

“Zec,hcx hpurjqhoeuohYjrnghasxthqnpubsjjuiyjhfxgpjw jgfjpk”

“Cjp,h_puhfxtmubgj_hfuyyjqhtj,hugqhNhosnjqhoxhmufnachent,hej’phrjsc
nyy,hugqhzuphqnppuonpanjqhznoehoejhqxfoxskhN’th pjqhoxhyxxlngbhuaojs
p fehngruynqpk”

“Cjp,hN’rjhejusqhcx hynrjhuohTjgoxgjhznoehcx shu go—Nhoengl—Tuqutj
Pouey:hNh pjqhoxhlgxzhejsh_ijyyj-pœ s_k”

“Gx,hpej’phgxohtchu gokhNhfuyyhejshtuttu,hi ohNhuthgxohsjyuojqhoxhejs;
Nhzuphisx beoh mhichejs,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglu,hay pengbhuhynooyjhubungk

Oenphzuphpxhpntmychpunq,hugqhpxhpzjjohzuphoejhos oea yhugqhfugqnq
jvmsjppnxghxahejshaufj,hoeuohoejhmsngfjpphpuzhzechLnoocheuqhouljghp fe
uhaugfchoxhRusjgluk

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuo’phoenphYjrnghbxngbhoxhqx?”hupljqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Ej’phbxngbhuzuc,”hugpzjsjqhRusjgluk

UohoeuohngpougohLnoochfutjh mhasxthoejhpmsngbhijutngbhznoehqjynbeohoeuo
ejshtxoejsheuqhijfxtjhufw ungojqhznoehejsh glgxzghasnjgqk

“Zjyy,hpjj,hLnooc,hcx shngojgpjhqjpnsjhoxhtuljhasnjgqphznoe
Tuqjtxnpjyyjkkkk”

“Rusjglu,”hRusjgluhm ohnghptnyngb,h“oeuo’phzeuohjrjscxgjhfuyyphtjk”

Lnoochiy pejqhznoehmyjup sj,hugqhpyxzyc,hznoex ohpmjulngb,hmsjppjqhejs
gjzhasnjgq’pheugq,hzenfehqnqhgxohsjpmxgqhoxhejshmsjpp sj,hi ohyuc
txonxgyjpphnghejsheugqkhOejheugqhqnqhgxohsjpmxgqhoxhejshmsjpp sj,hi o
oejhaufjhxahTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjgluhbyxzjqhznoehuhpxao,hbyuq,hoex be
suoejshtx sga yhptnyj,hoeuohpexzjqhyusbjhi oheugqpxtjhojjoek

“Nheurjhyxgbhznpejqhaxshoenphoxx,”hpejhpunqk

“I ohcx husjhpxhi pck”

“Xe,hgx,hN’thgxohuohuyyhi pc,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglu,hi ohuohoeuohtxtjgohpej
euqhoxhyjurjhejshgjzhasnjgqphijfu pjhozxhynooyjhS ppnughbnsyp,hfenyqsjg
xahughngruynq,hsugh mhoxhejsk

“Rusjglu,htuttu’phfuyyngb!”hoejchfsnjqk

UgqhRusjgluhzjgohuaojshoejtk


Feumojsh32

Oejhmusonf yusphzenfehoejhmsngfjppheuqhyjusgjqhnghsjbusqhoxhRusjglu’p
mupohugqhejshsjyuonxgphznoehTuqutjhPoueyhzjsjhuphaxyyxzp:

TuqutjhPouey,hxahzexthpxtjhmjxmyjhpunqhoeuohpejheuqhzxssnjqhejshe piugq
x ohxahenphynaj,hzenyjhxoejsphpunqhnohzuphejhzexheuqhtuqjhejshzsjofejq
ichenphnttxsuyhijeurnxs,heuqhuyzucphijjghuhzxtughxahzjulhejuyoehugq
jgoe pnuponfhojtmjsutjgokhZejg,huaojshejshpjmusuonxghasxthejshe piugq,
pejhburjhinsoehoxhejshxgychfenyq,hoejhfenyqheuqhqnjqhuytxpo
nttjqnuojyc,hugqhoejhautnychxahTuqutjhPouey,hlgxzngbhejshpjgpninynoc,
ugqhajusngbhoejhgjzphzx yqhlnyyhejs,heuqhp ipono ojqhugxoejshfenyq,hu
iuichixsghoejhputjhgnbeohugqhnghoejhputjhex pjhnghMjojspi sb,hoej
qu beojshxahoejhfenjahfxxlhxahoejhNtmjsnuyhEx pjexyqkhOenphzuphRusjgluk
TuqutjhPoueyhyjusgjqhyuojshxghoeuohRusjgluhzuphgxohejshxzghfenyq,hi o
pejhzjgohxghisngbngbhejsh m,hjpmjfnuyychuphrjschpxxghuaojszusqphRusjglu
euqhgxohuhsjyuonxghxahejshxzghynrngbkhTuqutjhPoueyheuqhgxzhijjghynrngb
txsjhoeughojghcjusphfxgong x pychuisxuq,hnghoejhpx oe,hgjrjshyjurngb
ejshfx fekhUgqhpxtjhmjxmyjhpunqhoeuohTuqutjhPoueyheuqhtuqjhejshpxfnuy
mxpnonxghuphuhmenyugoesxmnf,henbeychsjynbnx phzxtug;hxoejshmjxmyjhpunq
pejhsjuyychzuphuohejusohoejhenbeychjoenfuyhijngb,hynrngbhaxshgxoengb
i ohoejhbxxqhxahejshajyyxzhfsjuo sjp,hzenfehpejhsjmsjpjgojqhejspjyahox
ijkhGxhxgjhlgjzhzeuohejshaunoehzup—Fuoexynf,hMsxojpougo,hxshXsoexqxvk
I ohxgjhaufohzuphngq inouiyj—pejhzuphnghutnfuiyjhsjyuonxgphznoehoej
enbejpohqnbgnousnjphxahuyyhoejhfe sfejphugqhpjfopk

Rusjgluhynrjqhznoehejshuyyhoejhzenyjhuisxuq,hugqhjrjscxgjhzexhlgjz
TuqutjhPoueyhlgjzhugqhynljqhTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjglu,huphjrjscxgjhfuyyjq
ejsk

Eurngbhyjusgjqhuyyhoejpjhaufop,hoejhmsngfjpphax gqhgxoengbhoxhxi.jfohox
nghejshqu beojs’phngontufchznoehRusjglu,htxsjhjpmjfnuyychuphRusjglu’p
isjjqngbhugqhjq fuonxghzjsjhxahoejhijpo—pejhpmxljhAsjgfehugqhJgbynpe
jvosjtjychzjyy—ugqhzeuohzuphxahoejhtxpohzjnbeo,hisx beohuhtjppubjhasxt
TuqutjhPoueyhjvmsjppngbhejshsjbsjohoeuohpejhzuphmsjrjgojqhichejshnyy
ejuyoehasxthtulngbhoejhufw ungougfjhxahoejhmsngfjppk

UaojshbjoongbhoxhlgxzhRusjglu,hLnoochijfutjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhaupfnguojqhic
ejshasnjgq,hugqhjrjschquchpejhqnpfxrjsjqhgjzhrnso jphnghejsk

Oejhmsngfjpp,hejusngbhoeuohRusjgluheuqhuhbxxqhrxnfj,hupljqhejshoxhfxtj
ugqhpngbhoxhoejthnghoejhjrjgngbk

“Lnoochmyucp,hugqhzjheurjhuhmnugx;hgxohuhbxxqhxgj,hno’phos j,hi ohcx 
znyyhbnrjh phpxht fehmyjup sj,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjpphznoehejshuaajfojq
ptnyj,hzenfehLnoochqnpynljqhmusonf yusych. pohoejg,hijfu pjhpejhgxonfjq
oeuohRusjgluheuqhgxhngfynguonxghoxhpngbkhRusjgluhfutj,hexzjrjs,hnghoej
jrjgngbhugqhisx beohuhsxyyhxaht pnfhznoehejskhOejhmsngfjppheuqhngrnojq
TuscuhCjrbjgcjrguhugqhejshqu beojshugqhoejhfxyxgjyk

Rusjgluhpjjtjqhw nojh guaajfojqhichoejsjhijngbhmjspxgphmsjpjgohpejhqnq
gxohlgxz,hugqhpejhzjgohqnsjfoychoxhoejhmnugxkhPejhfx yqhgxohuffxtmugc
ejspjya,hi ohpejhfx yqhpngbht pnfhuohpnbeohrjschzjyykhLnooc,hzexhmyucjq
zjyy,huffxtmugnjqhejsk

“Cx heurjhughjvosuxsqnguschouyjgo,”hoejhmsngfjpphpunqhoxhejshuaojs
Rusjgluheuqhp gbhoejhanspohpxgbhjvosjtjychzjyyk

TuscuhCjrbjgcjrguhugqhejshqu beojshjvmsjppjqhoejnshoeuglphugq
uqtnsuonxgk

“Yxxl,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjy,hyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxz,h“zeuohughu qnjgfj
euphfxyyjfojqhoxhynpojghoxhcx k”hOejsjhufo uyychzuphw nojhu
fxgpnqjsuiyjhfsxzqh gqjshoejhzngqxzpk

“Nhuthrjschbyuqhnohbnrjphcx hmyjup sj,”hRusjgluhugpzjsjqhpntmyck

LnoochyxxljqhznoehmsnqjhuohejshasnjgqkhPejhzuphjgfeugojqhichejshouyjgo,
ugqhejshrxnfj,hugqhejshaufj,hi ohtxpohxahuyyhichejshtuggjs,hichoejhzuc
Rusjgluhxirnx pychoex beohgxoengbhxahejshpngbngbhugqhzuphw nojh gtxrjq
ichoejnshmsunpjpkhPejhpjjtjqhxgychoxhijhuplngb:h“UthNhoxhpngbhubung,hxs
nphoeuohjgx be?”

“NahnoheuqhijjghN,”hoex beohLnooc,h“exzhmsx qhNhpex yqheurjhijjg!hExz
qjynbeojqhNhpex yqheurjhijjghoxhpjjhoeuohfsxzqh gqjshoejhzngqxzp!hI o
pej’ph oojsych gtxrjqhichnokhEjshxgychtxonrjhnphoxhurxnqhsja pngbhugq
oxhmyjupjhtuttukhZeuohnphoejsjhnghejs?hZeuohnphnohbnrjphejshoejhmxzjs
oxhyxxlhqxzghxghjrjscoengb,hoxhijhfuythngqjmjgqjgoychxahjrjscoengb?hExz
Nhpex yqhynljhoxhlgxzhnohugqhoxhyjusghnohxahejs!”hoex beohLnooc,hbudngb
ngoxhejshpjsjgjhaufjkhOejhmsngfjpphupljqhRusjgluhoxhpngbhubung,hugq
Rusjgluhpugbhugxoejshpxgb,huypxhptxxoeyc,hqnpongfoyc,hugqhzjyy,
pougqngbhjsjfohuohoejhmnugxhugqhijuongbhontjhxghnohznoehejshoeng,
qusl-plnggjqheugqk

OejhgjvohpxgbhnghoejhixxlhzuphughNouynughxgjkhLnoochmyucjqhoejhxmjgngb
iusp,hugqhyxxljqhsx gqhuohRusjgluk

“Yjo’phplnmhoeuo,”hpunqhRusjglu,hay pengbhuhynooyjkhLnoochyjohejshjcjp
sjpohxghRusjglu’phaufj,hznoehuhyxxlhxahqnptuchugqhngw nsck

“Rjschzjyy,hoejhgjvohxgj,”hpejhpunqhe ssnjqyc,ho sgngbhxrjshoejhmubjp,
ugqhuohxgfjhajjyngbhoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhfxggjfojqhznoehoejhpxgbk

“Gx,”hugpzjsjqhRusjgluhznoehuhptnyj,hyucngbhejsheugqhxghoejht pnf,h“gx,
yjo’pheurjhoeuohxgjk”hUgqhpejhpugbhnoh. pohuphw njoyc,huphfxxyyc,hugq
uphzjyyhuphoejhxoejspk

Zejghpejheuqhangnpejq,hoejchuyyhoeugljqhejshubung,hugqhzjgohxaahoxhojuk
LnoochugqhRusjgluhzjgohx ohngoxhoejhynooyjhbusqjghoeuohuq.xngjqhoej
ex pjk

“UthNhsnbeo,hoeuohcx heurjhpxtjhsjtngnpfjgfjphfxggjfojqhznoehoeuo
pxgb?”hpunqhLnoockh“Qxg’ohojyyhtj,”hpejhuqqjqheuponyc,h“xgychpuchnahN’t
snbeok”

“Gx,hzechgxo?hN’yyhojyyhcx hpntmyc,”hpunqhRusjglu,hugq,hznoex ohzunongb
axshuhsjmyc,hpejhzjgohxg:h“Cjp,hnohisngbph mhtjtxsnjp,hxgfjhmunga y
xgjpkhNhfusjqhaxshpxtjxgjhxgfj,hugqhNh pjqhoxhpngbhenthoeuohpxgbk”

Lnoochznoehinb,hznqj-xmjghjcjphbudjqhpnyjgoyc,hpctmuoejonfuyychuo
Rusjgluk

“Nhfusjqhaxshent,hugqhejhfusjqhaxshtj;hi ohenphtxoejshqnqhgxohznpehno,
ugqhejhtussnjqhugxoejshbnsykhEj’phynrngbhgxzhgxohaushasxth p,hugqhNhpjj
enthpxtjontjpkhCx hqnqg’ohoenglhNheuqhuhyxrjhpoxschoxx,”hpejhpunq,hugq
oejsjhzuphuhaungohbyjuthnghejsheugqpxtjhaufjhxahoeuohansjhzenfehLnooc
ajyoht pohxgfjheurjhbyxzjqhuyyhxrjshejsk

“Nhqnqg’ohoenglhpx?hZec,hnahNhzjsjhuhtug,hNhfx yqhgjrjshfusjhaxshugcxgj
jypjhuaojshlgxzngbhcx khXgychNhfug’oh gqjspougqhexzhejhfx yq,hoxhmyjupj
enphtxoejs,haxsbjohcx hugqhtuljhcx h geummc;hejheuqhgxhejusok”

“Xe,hgx,hej’phuhrjschbxxqhtug,hugqhN’thgxoh geummc;hw nojhoejhfxgosusc,
N’thrjscheummckhZjyy,hpxhzjhpeug’ohijhpngbngbhugchtxsjhgxz,”hpejhuqqjq,
o sgngbhoxzusqphoejhex pjk

“Exzhbxxqhcx husj!hexzhbxxqhcx husj!”hfsnjqhLnooc,hugqhpoxmmngbhejs,
pejhlnppjqhejskh“NahNhfx yqhxgychijhjrjghuhynooyjhynljhcx !”

“Zechpex yqhcx hijhynljhugcxgj?hCx ’sjhgnfjhuphcx husj,”hpunqhRusjglu,
ptnyngbhejshbjgoyj,hzjuschptnyjk

“Gx,hN’thgxohgnfjhuohuyykhFxtj,hojyyhtjkkkkhPoxmhuhtng oj,hyjo’phpno
qxzg,”hpunqhLnooc,htulngbhejshpnohqxzghubunghijpnqjhejskh“Ojyyhtj,
npg’ohnohe tnynuongbhoxhoenglhoeuohuhtugheuphqnpqungjqhcx shyxrj,hoeuo
ejheupg’ohfusjqhaxshno?kkk”

“I ohejhqnqg’ohqnpqunghno;hNhijynjrjhejhfusjqhaxshtj,hi ohejhzuphu
q ona yhpxgkkkk”

“Cjp,hi ohnahnoheuqg’ohijjghxghuffx gohxahenphtxoejs,hnahnoheuqhijjg
enphxzghqxngb?kkk”hpunqhLnooc,hajjyngbhpejhzuphbnrngbhuzuchejshpjfsjo,
ugqhoeuohejshaufj,hi sgngbhznoehoejhay pehxahpeutj,heuqhijosucjqhejs
uysjuqck

“Nghoeuohfupjhejhzx yqheurjhqxgjhzsxgb,hugqhNhpex yqhgxoheurjhsjbsjoojq
ent,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglu,hjrnqjgoychsjuyndngbhoeuohoejchzjsjhgxzhouylngb
gxohxahejs,hi ohxahLnoock

“I ohoejhe tnynuonxg,”hpunqhLnooc,h“oejhe tnynuonxghxgjhfughgjrjs
axsbjo,hfughgjrjshaxsbjo,”hpejhpunq,hsjtjtijsngbhejshyxxlhuohoejhyupo
iuyyhq sngbhoejhmu pjhnghoejht pnfk

“Zejsjhnphoejhe tnynuonxg?hZec,hcx hqnqhgxoengbhzsxgb?”

“Zxspjhoeughzsxgb—peutja yk”

RusjgluhpexxlhejshejuqhugqhyunqhejsheugqhxghLnooc’pheugqk

“Zec,hzeuohnphoejsjhpeutja y?”hpejhpunqkh“Cx hqnqg’ohojyyhuhtug,hzex
qnqg’ohfusjhaxshcx ,hoeuohcx hyxrjqhent,hqnqhcx ?”

“Xahfx spjhgxo;hNhgjrjshpunqhuhzxsq,hi ohejhlgjzhnokhGx,hgx,hoejsjhusj
yxxlp,hoejsjhusjhzucp;hNhfug’ohaxsbjohno,hnahNhynrjhuhe gqsjqhcjuspk”

“Zechpx?hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqkhOejhzexyjhmxngohnphzejoejshcx hyxrjhent
gxzhxshgxo,”hpunqhRusjglu,hzexhfuyyjqhjrjscoengbhichnophgutjk

“Nheuojhent;hNhfug’ohaxsbnrjhtcpjyak”

“Zec,hzeuohaxs?”

“Oejhpeutj,hoejhe tnynuonxg!”

“Xe!hnahjrjscxgjhzjsjhuphpjgpnonrjhuphcx husj!”hpunqhRusjglukh“Oejsj
npg’ohuhbnsyhzexheupg’ohijjghoesx behoejhputjkhUgqhno’phuyyhpx
 gntmxsougok”

“Zec,hzeuohnphntmxsougo?”hpunqhLnooc,hyxxlngbhngoxhejshaufjhznoe
ngw npnonrjhzxgqjsk

“Xe,hoejsj’phpxht fehoeuo’phntmxsougo,”hpunqhRusjglu,hptnyngbk

“Zec,hzeuo?”

“Xe,hpxht fehoeuo’phtxsjhntmxsougo,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglu,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuo
oxhpuckhI ohuohoeuohngpougohoejchejusqhoejhmsngfjpp’phrxnfjhasxthoej
zngqxzkh“Lnooc,hno’phfxyq!hJnoejshbjohuhpeuzy,hxshfxtjhngqxxspk”

“Nohsjuyychnphontjhoxhbxhng!”hpunqhRusjglu,hbjoongbh mkh“Nheurjhoxhbx
xghoxhTuqutjhIjsoej’p;hpejhupljqhtjhoxk”

Lnoochejyqhejshichoejheugq,hugqhznoehmuppnxguojhf snxpnochugqhjgosjuoc
ejshjcjphupljqhejs:h“Zeuohnphno,hzeuohnphoenphxahp fehntmxsougfjhoeuo
bnrjphcx hp fehosugw nyynoc?hCx hlgxz,hojyyhtj!”hI ohRusjgluhqnqhgxo
jrjghlgxzhzeuohLnooc’phjcjphzjsjhuplngbhejskhPejhtjsjychoex beohoeuo
pejheuqhoxhbxhoxhpjjhTuqutjhIjsoejhoxxhoeuohjrjgngb,hugqhoxhtuljheupoj
extjhnghontjhaxsh_tutug’p_hojuhuohozjyrjhx’fyxflkhPejhzjgohngqxxsp,
fxyyjfojqhejsht pnf,hugqhpucngbhbxxq-icjhoxhjrjscxgj,hzuphuix ohoxhbxk

“Uyyxzhtjhoxhpjjhcx hextj,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyk

“Cjp,hexzhfughcx hbxhuyxgjhuohgnbeohynljhoenp?”hfentjqhnghoejhmsngfjppk
“Ugczuc,hN’yyhpjgqhMusupeuk”

LnoochpuzhoeuohRusjgluhfx yqheusqychsjposunghuhptnyjhuohoejhnqjuhoeuo
pejhgjjqjqhughjpfxsok

“Gx,hNhuyzucphbxhuix ohuyxgjhugqhgxoengbhjrjsheummjgphoxhtj,”hpejhpunq,
oulngbhejsheuokhUgqhlnppngbhLnoochxgfjhtxsj,hznoex ohpucngbhzeuohzup
ntmxsougo,hpejhpojmmjqhx ohfx subjx pychznoehoejht pnfh gqjshejshust
ugqhrugnpejqhngoxhoejhoznynbeohxahoejhp ttjshgnbeo,hijusngbhuzuchznoe
ejshejshpjfsjohxahzeuohzuphntmxsougohugqhzeuohburjhejshoejhfuythugq
qnbgnochpxht fehoxhijhjgrnjqk


Feumojsh33

Lnoochtuqjhoejhufw ungougfjhxahTuqutjhPoueyhoxx,hugqhoenphufw ungougfj,
oxbjoejshznoehejshasnjgqpenmhznoehRusjglu,hqnqhgxohtjsjychjvjsfnpjhu
bsjuohngay jgfjhxghejs,hnohuypxhfxtaxsojqhejshnghejshtjgouyhqnposjppk
Pejhax gqhoenphfxtaxsohoesx behuhfxtmyjojychgjzhzxsyqhijngbhxmjgjqhox
ejshichtjugphxahoenphufw ungougfj,huhzxsyqheurngbhgxoengbhnghfxttxg
znoehejshmupo,hughjvuyojq,hgxiyjhzxsyq,hasxthoejhejnbeohxahzenfehpej
fx yqhfxgojtmyuojhejshmupohfuytyckhNohzuphsjrjuyjqhoxhejshoeuohijpnqjp
oejhngpongfonrjhynajhoxhzenfehLnoocheuqhbnrjghejspjyah mhenoejsoxhoejsj
zuphuhpmnsno uyhynajkhOenphynajhzuphqnpfyxpjqhnghsjynbnxg,hi ohu
sjynbnxgheurngbhgxoengbhnghfxttxghznoehoeuohxgjhzenfehLnoocheuqhlgxzg
asxthfenyqexxq,hugqhzenfehax gqhjvmsjppnxghnghynougnjphugqhuyy-gnbeo
pjsrnfjphuohoejhZnqxz’phExtj,hzejsjhxgjhtnbeohtjjohxgj’phasnjgqp,hugq
nghyjusgngbhichejusohPyurxgnfhojvophznoehoejhmsnjpokhOenphzuphuhyxaoc,
tcpojsnx phsjynbnxghfxggjfojqhznoehuhzexyjhpjsnjphxahgxiyjhoex beophugq
ajjyngbp,hzenfehxgjhfx yqhqxhtxsjhoeughtjsjychijynjrjhijfu pjhxgjhzup
oxyqhox,hzenfehxgjhfx yqhyxrjk

Lnoochax gqhuyyhoenphx ohgxohasxthzxsqpkhTuqutjhPoueyhouyljqhoxhLnooc
uphoxhuhfeustngbhfenyqhoeuohxgjhyxxlphxghznoehmyjup sjhuphxghoejhtjtxsc
xahxgj’phcx oe,hugqhxgychxgfjhpejhpunqhnghmuppngbhoeuohnghuyyhe tug
pxssxzphgxoengbhbnrjphfxtaxsohi ohyxrjhugqhaunoe,hugqhoeuohnghoejhpnbeo
xahFesnpo’phfxtmuppnxghaxsh phgxhpxssxzhnphosnayngb—ugqhnttjqnuojyc
ouyljqhxahxoejshoengbpkhI ohnghjrjschbjpo sjhxahTuqutjhPouey,hnghjrjsc
zxsq,hnghjrjschejurjgyc—uphLnoochfuyyjqhno—yxxl,hugqhuixrjhuyyhnghoej
zexyjhpoxschxahejshynaj,hzenfehpejhejusqhasxthRusjglu,hLnoochsjfxbgndjq
oeuohpxtjoengbh“oeuohzuphntmxsougo,”hxahzenfe,honyyhoejg,hpejheuqhlgxzg
gxoengbk

Cjo,hjyjruojqhuphTuqutjhPouey’phfeusufojshzup,hox fengbhuphzuphejs
poxsc,hugqhjvuyojqhugqhtxrngbhuphzuphejshpmjjfe,hLnoochfx yqhgxohejym
qjojfongbhnghejshpxtjhosunophzenfehmjsmyjvjqhejskhPejhgxonfjqhoeuohzejg
w jponxgngbhejshuix ohejshautnyc,hTuqutjhPoueyheuqhptnyjq
fxgojtmo x pyc,hzenfehzuphgxohnghuffxsqhznoehFesnponughtjjlgjppkhPej
gxonfjq,hoxx,hoeuohzejghpejheuqhax gqhuhFuoexynfhmsnjpohznoehejs,
TuqutjhPoueyheuqhpo qnx pychljmohejshaufjhnghoejhpeuqxzhxahoej
yutm-peuqjhugqheuqhptnyjqhnghuhmjf ynushzuckhOsnrnuyhuphoejpjhozx
xipjsruonxgphzjsj,hoejchmjsmyjvjqhejs,hugqhpejheuqhejshqx iophuphox
TuqutjhPoueykhI ohxghoejhxoejsheugqhRusjglu,huyxgjhnghoejhzxsyq,
znoex ohasnjgqphxshsjyuonxgp,hznoehuhtjyugfexychqnpummxngotjgohnghoej
mupo,hqjpnsngbhgxoengb,hsjbsjoongbhgxoengb,hzuph. pohoeuohmjsajfonxghxa
zenfehLnoochqusjqheusqychqsjutkhNghRusjgluhpejhsjuyndjqhoeuohxgjheup
i ohoxhaxsbjohxgjpjyahugqhyxrjhxoejsp,hugqhxgjhznyyhijhfuyt,heummc,hugq
gxiyjkhUgqhoeuohzuphzeuohLnoochyxgbjqhoxhijkhPjjngbhgxzhfyjusychzeuo
zuph_oejhtxpohntmxsougo_,hLnoochzuphgxohpuonpanjqhznoehijngb
jgoe pnuponfhxrjshno;hpejhuohxgfjhburjhejspjyah mhznoehejshzexyjhpx y
oxhoejhgjzhynajhoeuohzuphxmjgngbhoxhejskhAsxthRusjglu’phuffx gophxahoej
qxngbphxahTuqutjhPoueyhugqhxoejshmjxmyjhzexthpejhtjgonxgjq,hLnoocheuq
uysjuqchfxgpos fojqhoejhmyughxahejshxzgha o sjhynajkhPejhzx yq,hynlj
TuqutjhPouey’phgnjfj,hUyngj,hxahzexthRusjgluheuqhouyljqhoxhejshuhbsjuo
qjuy,hpjjlhx ohoexpjhzexhzjsjhnghosx iyj,hzejsjrjshpejhtnbeohijhynrngb,
ejymhoejthuphaushuphpejhfx yq,hbnrjhoejthoejhBxpmjy,hsjuqhoejhBxpmjyhox
oejhpnfl,hoxhfsntnguyp,hoxhoejhqcngbkhOejhnqjuhxahsjuqngbhoejhBxpmjyhox
fsntnguyp,huphUyngjhqnq,hmusonf yusychaupfnguojqhLnoockhI ohuyyhoejpj
zjsjhpjfsjohqsjutp,hxahzenfehLnoochqnqhgxohouylhjnoejshoxhejshtxoejshxs
oxhRusjgluk

Zenyjhuzunongbhoejhontjhaxshfusscngbhx ohejshmyugphxghuhyusbjhpfuyj,
exzjrjs,hLnooc,hjrjghoejghuohoejhpmsngbp,hzejsjhoejsjhzjsjhpxhtugc
mjxmyjhnyyhugqh geummc,hsjuqnychax gqhuhfeugfjhaxshmsufonfngbhejshgjz
msngfnmyjphnghntnouonxghxahRusjgluk

Uohanspohoejhmsngfjpphgxonfjqhgxoengbhi ohoeuohLnoochzupht feh gqjshoej
ngay jgfjhxahejsh_jgbx jtjgo_,huphpejhfuyyjqhno,haxshTuqutjhPouey,hugq
ponyyhtxsjhaxshRusjglukhPejhpuzhoeuohLnoochqnqhgxohtjsjychntnouoj
Rusjgluhnghejshfxgq fo,hi oh gfxgpfnx pychntnouojqhejshnghejshtuggjshxa
zuylngb,hxahouylngb,hxahiynglngbhejshjcjpkhI ohyuojshxghoejhmsngfjpp
gxonfjqhoeuo,humusohasxthoenphuqxsuonxg,hpxtjhlngqhxahpjsnx phpmnsno uy
feugbjhzuphoulngbhmyufjhnghejshqu beojsk

OejhmsngfjpphpuzhoeuohnghoejhjrjgngbphLnoochsjuqhuhAsjgfehojpoutjgo
oeuohTuqutjhPoueyheuqhbnrjghejs—uhoengbhpejheuqhgjrjshqxgjhijaxsj;hoeuo
pejhurxnqjqhpxfnjochufw ungougfjphugqhuppxfnuojqhznoehoejhpnflhmjxmyj
zexhzjsjh gqjshRusjglu’phmsxojfonxg,hugqhjpmjfnuyychxgjhmxxshautnyc,
oeuohxahuhpnflhmungojs,hMjosxrkhLnoochzuph gtnpouluiychmsx qhxahmyucngb
oejhmusohxahuhpnpojshxahtjsfchnghoeuohautnyckhUyyhoenphzuphzjyyhjgx be,
ugqhoejhmsngfjppheuqhgxoengbhoxhpuchubungpohno,hjpmjfnuyychuphMjosxr’p
znajhzuphuhmjsajfoychgnfjhpxsohxahzxtug,hugqhoeuohoejhBjstughmsngfjpp,
gxonfngbhLnooc’phqjrxonxg,hmsunpjqhejs,hfuyyngbhejshughugbjyhxa
fxgpxyuonxgkhUyyhoenphzx yqheurjhijjghrjschzjyy,hnahoejsjheuqhijjghgx
jvubbjsuonxgkhI ohoejhmsngfjpphpuzhoeuohejshqu beojshzuphs pengbhngox
jvosjtjp,hugqhpxhngqjjqhpejhoxyqhejsk

“_Nyhgjhau oh.utunphsnjghx osjs_,”hpejhpunqhoxhejsk

Ejshqu beojshtuqjhejshgxhsjmyc,hxgychnghejshejusohpejhoex beohoeuohxgj
fx yqhgxohouylhuix ohjvubbjsuonxghzejsjhFesnponugnochzuphfxgfjsgjqk
Zeuohjvubbjsuonxghfx yqhoejsjhijhnghoejhmsufonfjhxahuhqxfosngjhzejsjng
xgjhzuphinqqjghoxho sghoejhxoejshfejjlhzejghxgjhzuphptnoojg,hugqhbnrj
xgj’phfyxulhnahxgj’phfxuohzjsjhouljg?hI ohoejhmsngfjpphqnpynljqhoenp
jvubbjsuonxg,hugqhqnpynljqhjrjghtxsjhoejhaufohoeuohpejhajyohejs
qu beojshqnqhgxohfusjhoxhpexzhejshuyyhejshejusokhLnoochqnqhnghaufo
fxgfjuyhejshgjzhrnjzphugqhajjyngbphasxthejshtxoejskhPejhfxgfjuyjqhoejt
gxohijfu pjhpejhqnqhgxohsjpmjfohxshqnqhgxohyxrjhejshtxoejs,hi ohpntmyc
ijfu pjhpejhzuphejshtxoejskhPejhzx yqheurjhsjrjuyjqhoejthoxhugcxgj
pxxgjshoeughoxhejshtxoejsk

“ExzhnphnohUgguhMuryxrgu’phgxohijjghoxhpjjh phaxshpxhyxgb?”hoej
msngfjpphpunqhxgjhquchxahTuqutjhMjosxrukh“N’rjhupljqhejs,hi ohpejhpjjtp
m ohx ohuix ohpxtjoengbk”

“Gx,hN’rjhgxohgxonfjqhno,htutug,”hpunqhLnooc,hay pengbhexoyck

“Nphnohyxgbhpngfjhcx hzjgohoxhpjjhoejt?”

“Zj’sjhtjugngbhoxhtuljhughjvmjqnonxghoxhoejhtx goungphoxtxssxz,”
ugpzjsjqhLnoock

“Zjyy,hcx hfughbx,”hugpzjsjqhoejhmsngfjpp,hbudngbhuohejshqu beojs’p
jtiussuppjqhaufjhugqhoscngbhoxhb jpphoejhfu pjhxahejshjtiussupptjgok

OeuohquchRusjgluhfutjhoxhqnggjshugqhoxyqhoejthoeuohUgguhMuryxrguheuq
feugbjqhejshtngqhugqhbnrjgh mhoejhjvmjqnonxghaxshoejhtxssxzkhUgqhoej
msngfjpphgxonfjqhubunghoeuohLnoochsjqqjgjqk

“Lnooc,heurjg’ohcx heuqhpxtjhtnp gqjspougqngbhznoehoejhMjosxrp?”hpunq
oejhmsngfjpp,hzejghoejchzjsjhyjaohuyxgjkh“Zecheuphpejhbnrjgh mhpjgqngb
oejhfenyqsjghugqhfxtngbhoxhpjjh p?”

Lnoochugpzjsjqhoeuohgxoengbheuqheummjgjqhijozjjghoejt,hugqhoeuohpej
fx yqhgxohojyyhzechUgguhMuryxrguhpjjtjqhqnpmyjupjqhznoehejskhLnooc
ugpzjsjqhmjsajfoychos yckhPejhqnqhgxohlgxzhoejhsjupxghUgguhMuryxrguheuq
feugbjqhoxhejs,hi ohpejhb jppjqhnokhPejhb jppjqhuohpxtjoengbhzenfehpej
fx yqhgxohojyyhejshtxoejs,hzenfehpejhqnqhgxohm ohngoxhzxsqphoxhejspjyak
Nohzuphxgjhxahoexpjhoengbphzenfehxgjhlgxzphi ohzenfehxgjhfughgjrjs
pmjulhxahjrjghoxhxgjpjya,hpxhojssniyjhugqhpeutja yhzx yqhnohijhoxhij
tnpouljgk

Ubunghugqhubunghpejhzjgohxrjshnghejshtjtxschuyyhejshsjyuonxgphznoehoej
autnyckhPejhsjtjtijsjqhoejhpntmyjhqjynbeohjvmsjppjqhxghoejhsx gq,
bxxq-e txsjqhaufjhxahUgguhMuryxrguhuohoejnshtjjongbp;hpejhsjtjtijsjq
oejnshpjfsjohfxgaui yuonxgphuix ohoejhngruynq,hoejnshmyxophoxhqsuzhent
uzuchasxthoejhzxslhzenfehzuphaxsinqqjghent,hugqhoxhbjohent
x o-xa-qxxsp;hoejhqjrxonxghxahoejhcx gbjpohixc,hzexh pjqhoxhfuyyhejs
“tchLnooc,”hugqhzx yqhgxohbxhoxhijqhznoex ohejskhExzhgnfjhnohuyyhzup!
Oejghpejhsjfuyyjqhoejhoeng,hojssniychoenghanb sjhxahMjosxr,hznoehenp
yxgbhgjfl,hnghenphisxzghfxuo,henphpfugo,hf sycheuns,henphw jponxgngb
iy jhjcjphoeuohzjsjhpxhojssniyjhoxhLnoochuohanspo,hugqhenphmunga y
uoojtmophoxhpjjthejusochugqhynrjychnghejshmsjpjgfjkhPejhsjfuyyjqhoej
jaaxsophpejheuqhtuqjhuohanspohoxhxrjsfxtjhoejhsjm bgugfjhpejhajyohaxs
ent,huphaxshuyyhfxgp tmonrjhmjxmyj,hugqhoejhmungphnoheuqhfxpohejshox
oenglhxahoengbphoxhpuchoxhentkhPejhsjfuyyjqhoejhontnq,hpxaojgjqhyxxl
znoehzenfehejhbudjqhuohejs,hugqhoejhposugbjhajjyngbhxahfxtmuppnxghugq
uzlzusqgjpp,hugqhyuojshxahuhpjgpjhxahejshxzghbxxqgjpp,hzenfehpejheuq
ajyohuohnokhExzhgnfjhnohuyyhzup!hI ohuyyhoeuohzuphuohanspokhGxz,huhajz
qucphubx,hjrjscoengbhzuphp qqjgychpmxnyjqkhUgguhMuryxrguheuqhtjohLnooc
znoehuaajfojqhfxsqnuynoc,hugqheuqhljmohfxgong uyhzuofehxghejshugqhxg
ejshe piugqk

Fx yqhoeuohox fengbhmyjup sjhejhpexzjqhzejghpejhfutjhgjushijhoejhfu pj
xahUgguhMuryxrgu’phfxxygjpp?

“Cjp,”hpejht pjq,h“oejsjhzuphpxtjoengbh gguo suyhuix ohUgguhMuryxrgu,
ugqh oojsych gynljhejshbxxqhguo sj,hzejghpejhpunqhugbsnychoejhquc
ijaxsjhcjpojsquc:h‘Oejsj,hejhznyyhljjmhzunongbhaxshcx ;hejhzx yqg’o
qsnglhenphfxaajjhznoex ohcx ,hoex behej’phbsxzghpxhqsjuqa yychzjulk’”

“Cjp,hmjseump,hoxx,hpejhqnqg’ohynljhnohzejghNhburjhenthoejhs bkhNohzup
uyyhpxhpntmyj,hi ohejhoxxlhnohpxhuzlzusqyc,hugqhzuphpxhyxgbhoeuglngb
tj,hoeuohNhajyohuzlzusqhoxxkhUgqhoejghoeuohmxsosunohxahtjhejhqnqhpx
zjyykhUgqhtxpohxahuyyhoeuohyxxlhxahfxga pnxghugqhojgqjsgjpp!hCjp,hcjp,
oeuo’phno!”hLnoochsjmjuojqhoxhejspjyahznoehexssxskh“Gx,hnohfug’ohij,hno
x beog’ohoxhij!hEj’phpxht fehoxhijhmnonjq!”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya
qnsjfoychuaojsk

Oenphqx iohmxnpxgjqhoejhfeusthxahejshgjzhynajk


Feumojsh34

Ijaxsjhoejhjgqhxahoejhfx spjhxahqsnglngbhoejhzuojsp,hMsngfj
Peofejsiuoplc,hzexheuqhbxgjhxghasxthFusypiuqhoxhIuqjghugqhLnppngbjghox
S ppnughasnjgqp—oxhbjohuhisjuoehxahS ppnughuns,huphejhpunq—futjhiuflhox
enphznajhugqhqu beojsk

Oejhrnjzphxahoejhmsngfjhugqhxahoejhmsngfjpphxghynajhuisxuqhzjsj
fxtmyjojychxmmxpjqkhOejhmsngfjpphoex beohjrjscoengbhqjynbeoa y,hugqhng
pmnojhxahejshjpouiynpejqhmxpnonxghnghS ppnughpxfnjoc,hpejhosnjqhuisxuq
oxhijhynljhuhJ sxmjughaupenxguiyjhyuqc,hzenfehpejhzuphgxo—axshoej
pntmyjhsjupxghoeuohpejhzuphuhocmnfuyhS ppnughbjgoyjzxtug;hugqhpxhpej
zuphuaajfojq,hzenfehqnqhgxohuyoxbjoejshp nohejskhOejhmsngfj,hxghoej
fxgosusc,hoex beohjrjscoengbhaxsjnbghqjojpouiyj,hbxohpnflhxahJ sxmjug
ynaj,hljmohoxhenphS ppnugheuinop,hugqhm smxpjychosnjqhoxhpexzhentpjya
uisxuqhyjpphJ sxmjughoeughejhzuphnghsjuynock

Oejhmsngfjhsjo sgjqhoenggjs,hznoehoejhplngheugbngbhnghyxxpjhiubphxghenp
fejjlp,hi ohnghoejhtxpohfejjsa yhasutjhxahtngqkhEnphbxxqhe txshzuphjrjg
bsjuojshzejghejhpuzhLnoochfxtmyjojychsjfxrjsjqkhOejhgjzphxahLnooc’p
asnjgqpenmhznoehTuqutjhPoueyhugqhRusjglu,hugqhoejhsjmxsophoejhmsngfjpp
burjhenthxahpxtjhlngqhxahfeugbjhpejheuqhgxonfjqhnghLnooc,hosx iyjqhoej
msngfjhugqhusx pjqhenpheuino uyhajjyngbhxah.juyx pchxahjrjscoengbhoeuo
qsjzhenphqu beojshuzuchasxthent,hugqhuhqsjuqhoeuohenphqu beojshtnbeo
eurjhbxohx ohxahoejhsjufehxahenphngay jgfjhngoxhsjbnxgphnguffjppniyjhox
entkhI ohoejpjh gmyjupugohtuoojsphzjsjhuyyhqsxzgjqhnghoejhpjuhxa
lngqyngjpphugqhbxxqhe txshzenfehzuphuyzucphznoenghent,hugqhtxsjhpxhoeug
jrjshpngfjhenphfx spjhxahFusypiuqhzuojspk

Oejhquchuaojshenphussnruyhoejhmsngfj,hnghenphyxgbhxrjsfxuo,hznoehenp
S ppnughzsnglyjphugqhiubbchfejjlphmsxmmjqh mhichuhpousfejqhfxyyus,hpjo
xaahznoehenphqu beojshoxhoejhpmsngbhnghoejhbsjuojpohbxxqhe txsk

Nohzuphuhyxrjychtxsgngb:hoejhisnbeo,hfejjsa yhex pjphznoehoejnshynooyj
busqjgp,hoejhpnbeohxahoejhsjq-aufjq,hsjq-ustjq,hijjs-qsnglngbhBjstug
zunosjppjp,hzxslngbhuzuchtjssnyc,hqnqhoejhejusohbxxqkhI ohoejhgjusjs
oejchbxohoxhoejhpmsngbphoejhxaojgjshoejchtjohpnflhmjxmyj;hugqhoejns
ummjusugfjhpjjtjqhtxsjhmnonuiyjhoeughjrjshutxgbhoejhjrjscquchfxgqnonxgp
xahmsxpmjsx phBjstughynajkhLnoochzuphgxhyxgbjshpos flhichoenphfxgosupok
Oejhisnbeohp g,hoejhisnyynugohbsjjghxahoejhaxynubj,hoejhposungphxahoej
t pnfhzjsjhaxshejshoejhguo suyhpjoongbhxahuyyhoejpjhautnynushaufjp,
znoehoejnshfeugbjphoxhbsjuojshjtufnuonxghxshoxhfxgruyjpfjgfj,haxshzenfe
pejhzuofejqkhI ohoxhoejhmsngfjhoejhisnbeogjpphugqhbunjochxahoejh. gj
txsgngb,hugqhoejhpx gqhxahoejhxsfejposuhmyucngbhuhbuchzuyodhoejghng
aupenxg,hugqhuixrjhuyy,hoejhummjusugfjhxahoejhejuyoechuoojgqugop,
pjjtjqhpxtjoengbh gpjjtychugqhtxgposx p,hnghfxg. gfonxghznoehoejpj
pyxzychtxrngb,hqcngbhanb sjphbuoejsjqhoxbjoejshasxthuyyhmusophxa
J sxmjkhNghpmnojhxahenphajjyngbhxahmsnqjhugq,huphnohzjsj,hxahoejhsjo sg
xahcx oe,hznoehenphaurxsnojhqu beojshxghenphust,hejhajyohuzlzusq,hugq
uytxpohupeutjqhxahenphrnbxsx phpojmhugqhenphpo sqc,hpox ohyntipkhEj
ajyohuytxpohynljhuhtughgxohqsjppjqhnghuhfsxzqk

“Msjpjgohtjhoxhcx shgjzhasnjgqp,”hejhpunqhoxhenphqu beojs,hpw jjdngb
ejsheugqhznoehenphjyixzkh“Nhynljhjrjghcx shexssnqhPxqjghaxshtulngbhcx 
pxhzjyyhubungkhXgychno’phtjyugfexyc,hrjschtjyugfexychejsjkhZex’phoeuo?”

Lnoochtjgonxgjqhoejhgutjphxahuyyhoejhmjxmyjhoejchtjo,hznoehpxtjhxahzext
pejhzuphufw ungojqhugqhpxtjhgxokhUohoejhjgosugfjhxahoejhbusqjghoejchtjo
oejhiyngqhyuqc,hTuqutjhIjsoej,hznoehejshb nqj,hugqhoejhmsngfjhzup
qjynbeojqhoxhpjjhoejhxyqhAsjgfezxtug’phaufjhynbeoh mhzejghpejhejusq
Lnooc’phrxnfjkhPejhuohxgfjhijbughouylngbhoxhenthznoehAsjgfehjvubbjsuojq
mxynojgjpp,hummyu qngbhenthaxsheurngbhp fehuhqjynbeoa yhqu beojs,
jvoxyyngbhLnoochoxhoejhplnjphijaxsjhejshaufj,hugqhfuyyngbhejshu
osjup sj,huhmjusy,hugqhuhfxgpxyngbhugbjyk

“Zjyy,hpej’phoejhpjfxgqhugbjy,hoejg,”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,hptnyngbkh“pej
fuyyphTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjgluhugbjyhg tijshxgjk”

“Xe!hTuqjtxnpjyyjhRusjglu,hpej’phuhsjuyhugbjy,huyyjd,”hTuqutjhIjsoej
uppjgojqk

NghoejhusfuqjhoejchtjohRusjgluhejspjyakhPejhzuphzuylngbhsumnqychoxzusqp
oejthfusscngbhughjyjbugohsjqhiubk

“Ejsjhnphmumuhfxtj,”hLnoochpunqhoxhejsk

Rusjgluhtuqj—pntmychugqhguo suyychuphpejhqnqhjrjscoengb—uhtxrjtjgo
ijozjjghuhixzhugqhuhf sopjc,hugqhnttjqnuojychijbughouylngbhoxhoej
msngfj,hznoex ohpecgjpp,hguo suyyc,huphpejhouyljqhoxhjrjscxgjk

“Xahfx spjhNhlgxzhcx ;hNhlgxzhcx hrjschzjyy,”hoejhmsngfjhpunqhoxhejs
znoehuhptnyj,hnghzenfehLnoochqjojfojqhznoeh.xchoeuohejshauoejshynljq
ejshasnjgqkh“Zejsjhusjhcx hxaahoxhnghp feheupoj?”

“Tutug’phejsj,”hpejhpunq,ho sgngbhoxhLnoockh“Pejheuphgxohpyjmohuyy
gnbeo,hugqhoejhqxfoxshuqrnpjqhejshoxhbxhx okhN’thoulngbhejshejshzxslk”

“Pxhoeuo’phugbjyhg tijshxgj?”hpunqhoejhmsngfjhzejghRusjgluheuqhbxgjhxgk

Lnoochpuzhoeuohejshauoejsheuqhtjugohoxhtuljha ghxahRusjglu,hi ohoeuohej
fx yqhgxohqxhnohijfu pjhejhynljqhejsk

“Fxtj,hpxhzjhpeuyyhpjjhuyyhcx shasnjgqp,”hejhzjgohxg,h“jrjghTuqutj
Pouey,hnahpejhqjnbgphoxhsjfxbgndjhtjk”

“Zec,hqnqhcx hlgxzhejs,hmumu?”hLnoochupljqhummsjejgpnrjyc,hfuofengbhoej
byjuthxahnsxgchoeuohlngqyjqhnghoejhmsngfj’phjcjphuohoejhtjgonxghxa
TuqutjhPoueyk

“Nh pjqhoxhlgxzhejshe piugq,hugqhejshoxxhuhynooyj,hijaxsjhpej’qh.xngjq
oejhMnjonpopk”

“ZeuohnphuhMnjonpo,hmumu?”hupljqhLnooc,hqnptucjqhoxhangqhoeuohzeuohpej
msndjqhpxhenbeychnghTuqutjhPoueyheuqhuhgutjk

“Nhqxg’ohw nojhlgxzhtcpjyakhNhxgychlgxzhoeuohpejhoeuglphBxqhaxs
jrjscoengb,haxshjrjschtnpaxso gj,hugqhoeuglphBxqhoxxhoeuohejshe piugq
qnjqkhUgqhoeuo’phsuoejshqsxyy,huphoejchqnqg’ohbjohxghoxbjoejsk”

“Zex’phoeuo?hZeuohuhmnojx phaufj!”hejhupljq,hgxonfngbhuhpnflhtughxa
tjqn thejnbeohpnoongbhxghuhijgfe,hzjusngbhuhisxzghxrjsfxuohugqhzenoj
osx pjsphoeuohajyyhnghposugbjhaxyqphuix ohenphyxgb,hayjpeyjpphyjbpk
Oenphtughynaojqhenphposuzheuo,hpexzjqhenphpfugochf sycheunshugqhenbe
axsjejuq,hmunga yychsjqqjgjqhichoejhmsjpp sjhxahoejheuok

“Oeuo’phMjosxr,hughusonpo,”hugpzjsjqhLnooc,hiy pengbkh“Ugqhoeuo’phenp
znaj,”hpejhuqqjq,hngqnfuongbhUgguhMuryxrgu,hzex,huphoex behxghm smxpj,
uohoejhrjschngpougohoejchummsxufejqhzuyljqhuzuchuaojshuhfenyqhoeuoheuq
s ghxaahuyxgbhuhmuoek

“Mxxshajyyxz!hugqhzeuohuhgnfjhaufjhejheup!”hpunqhoejhmsngfjkh“Zechqxg’o
cx hbxh mhoxhent?hEjhzugojqhoxhpmjulhoxhcx k”

“Zjyy,hyjoh phbx,hoejg,”hpunqhLnooc,ho sgngbhsx gqhsjpxy ojyckh“Exzhusj
cx hajjyngbhoxquc?”hpejhupljqhMjosxrk

Mjosxrhbxoh m,hyjugngbhxghenphponfl,hugqhyxxljqhpecychuohoejhmsngfjk

“Oenphnphtchqu beojs,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjkh“Yjohtjhngosxq fjhtcpjyak”

Oejhmungojshixzjqhugqhptnyjq,hpexzngbhenphposugbjychquddyngbhzenoj
ojjoek

“Zjhjvmjfojqhcx hcjpojsquc,hmsngfjpp,”hejhpunqhoxhLnoockhEjhpoubbjsjq
uphejhpunqhoenp,hugqhoejghsjmjuojqhoejhtxonxg,hoscngbhoxhtuljhnohpjjt
uphnahnoheuqhijjghngojgonxguyk

“Nhtjugohoxhfxtj,hi ohRusjgluhpunqhoeuohUgguhMuryxrguhpjgohzxsqhcx 
zjsjhgxohbxngbk”

“Gxohbxngb!”hpunqhMjosxr,hiy pengb,hugqhnttjqnuojychijbnggngbhoxhfx be,
ugqhenphjcjphpx beohenphznajkh“Ugnou!hUgnou!”hejhpunqhyx qyc,hugqhoej
pzxyyjghrjngphpoxxqhx ohynljhfxsqphxghenphoenghzenojhgjflk

UgguhMuryxrguhfutjh mk

“Pxhcx hpjgohzxsqhoxhoejhmsngfjpphoeuohzjhzjsjg’ohbxngb!”hejhzenpmjsjq
oxhejshugbsnyc,hyxpngbhenphrxnfjk

“Bxxqhtxsgngb,hmsngfjpp,”hpunqhUgguhMuryxrgu,hznoehughupp tjqhptnyj
 oojsych gynljhejshaxstjshtuggjskh“Rjschbyuqhoxhtuljhcx s
ufw ungougfj,”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhmsngfjkh“Cx ’rjhyxgbhijjghjvmjfojq,
msngfjk”

“Zeuohqnqhcx hpjgqhzxsqhoxhoejhmsngfjpphoeuohzjhzjsjg’ohbxngbhaxs?”hoej
usonpohzenpmjsjqhexuspjychxgfjhtxsj,hponyyhtxsjhugbsnyc,hxirnx pyc
jvupmjsuojqhoeuohenphrxnfjhaunyjqhenthpxhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohbnrjhenp
zxsqphoejhjvmsjppnxghejhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxk

“Xe,htjsfchxgh p!hNhoex beohzjhzjsjg’ohbxngb,”henphznajhugpzjsjq
fsxppyck

“Zeuo,hzejgkkkk”hEjhfx bejqhugqhzurjqhenpheugqkhOejhmsngfjhoxxlhxaahenp
euohugqhtxrjqhuzuchznoehenphqu beojsk

“Ue!hue!”hejhpnbejqhqjjmyckh“Xe,hmxxshoengbp!”

“Cjp,hmumu,”hugpzjsjqhLnoockh“Ugqhcx ht pohlgxzhoejc’rjhoesjjhfenyqsjg,
gxhpjsrugo,hugqhpfusfjychugchtjugpkhEjhbjophpxtjoengbhasxthoej
Ufuqjtc,”hpejhzjgohxghisnplyc,hoscngbhoxhqsxzghoejhqnposjpphoeuohoej
w jjshfeugbjhnghUgguhMuryxrgu’phtuggjshoxhejsheuqhusx pjqhnghejsk

“Xe,hejsj’phTuqutjhPouey,”hpunqhLnooc,hngqnfuongbhughngruynqhfussnubj,
zejsj,hmsxmmjqhxghmnyyxzp,hpxtjoengbhnghbsuchugqhiy jhzuphycngbh gqjshu
p gpeuqjkhOenphzuphTuqutjhPoueykhIjengqhejshpoxxqhoejhbyxxtc,
ejuyoec-yxxlngbhBjstughzxsltughzexhm pejqhoejhfussnubjkhFyxpjhichzup
pougqngbhuhayuvjg-ejuqjqhPzjqnpehfx go,hzexthLnoochlgjzhichgutjk
Pjrjsuyhngruynqphzjsjhyngbjsngbhgjushoejhyxzhfussnubj,hpousngbhuohoej
yuqchuphoex behpejhzjsjhpxtjhf snxpnock

Oejhmsngfjhzjgoh mhoxhejs,hugqhLnoochqjojfojqhoeuohqnpfxgfjsongbhbyjut
xahnsxgchnghenphjcjpkhEjhzjgoh mhoxhTuqutjhPouey,hugqhuqqsjppjqhejs
znoehjvosjtjhfx sojpchugqhuaauinynochnghoeuohjvfjyyjgohAsjgfehoeuohpx
ajzhpmjulhgxzuqucpk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhnahcx hsjtjtijshtj,hi ohNht pohsjfuyyhtcpjyahoxhoeuglhcx 
axshcx shlngqgjpphoxhtchqu beojs,”hejhpunq,houlngbhxaahenpheuohugqhgxo
m oongbhnohxghubungk

“MsngfjhUyjvugqjshPeofejsiuoplc,”hpunqhTuqutjhPouey,hynaongbh mxghent
ejshejurjgychjcjp,hnghzenfehLnoochqnpfjsgjqhuhyxxlhxahuggxcugfjk
“Qjynbeojq!hNheurjhouljghuhbsjuohaugfchoxhcx shqu beojsk”

“Cx husjhponyyhnghzjulhejuyoe?”

“Cjp;hN’th pjqhoxhno,”hpunqhTuqutjhPouey,hugqhpejhngosxq fjqhoejhmsngfj
oxhoejhPzjqnpehfx gok

“Cx husjhpfusfjychfeugbjqhuohuyy,”hoejhmsngfjhpunqhoxhejskh“No’phojghxs
jyjrjghcjusphpngfjhNheuqhoejhexgxshxahpjjngbhcx k”

“Cjp;hBxqhpjgqphoejhfsxpphugqhpjgqphoejhposjgboehoxhijushnokhXaojghxgj
zxgqjsphzeuohnphoejhbxuyhxahoenphynaj?kkkhOejhxoejshpnqj!”hpejhpunq
ugbsnychoxhRusjglu,hzexheuqhsjussugbjqhoejhs bhxrjshejshajjohgxohoxhejs
puonpaufonxgk

“Oxhqxhbxxq,hmsxiuiyc,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjhznoehuhoznglyjhnghenphjcjk

“Oeuohnphgxohaxsh phoxh. qbj,”hpunqhTuqutjhPouey,hmjsfjnrngbhoejhpeuqj
xahjvmsjppnxghxghoejhmsngfj’phaufjkh“Pxhcx hznyyhpjgqhtjhoeuohixxl,
qjushfx go?hN’thrjschbsuoja yhoxhcx ,”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhcx gbhPzjqjk

“Ue!”hfsnjqhoejhmsngfj,hfuofengbhpnbeohxahoejhTxpfxzhfxyxgjyhpougqngb
gjus,hugqhznoehuhixzhoxhTuqutjhPoueyhejhzuyljqhuzuchznoehenphqu beojs
ugqhoejhTxpfxzhfxyxgjy,hzexh.xngjqhoejtk

“Oeuo’phx shusnpoxfsufc,hmsngfj!”hoejhTxpfxzhfxyxgjyhpunqhznoehnsxgnfuy
ngojgonxgkhEjhfejsnpejqhuhbs qbjhubungpohTuqutjhPoueyhaxshgxohtulngb
enphufw ungougfjk

“Pej’ph. pohoejhputj,”hsjmynjqhoejhmsngfjk

“Qnqhcx hlgxzhejshijaxsjhejshnyygjpp,hmsngfj—oeuo’phoxhpuchijaxsjhpej
oxxlhoxhejshijq?”

“CjpkhPejhoxxlhoxhejshijqhijaxsjhtchjcjp,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk

“Oejchpuchno’phojghcjusphpngfjhpejheuphpoxxqhxghejshajjok”

“Pejhqxjpg’ohpougqh mhijfu pjhejshyjbphusjhoxxhpexsokhPej’phuhrjschiuq
anb sjk”

“Mumu,hno’phgxohmxppniyj!”hfsnjqhLnoock

“Oeuo’phzeuohznfljqhoxgb jphpuc,htchqusyngbkhUgqhcx shRusjgluhfuofejp
nohoxx,”hejhuqqjqkh“Xe,hoejpjhngruynqhyuqnjp!”

“Xe,hgx,hmumu!”hLnoochxi.jfojqhzustyckh“RusjgluhzxspenmphejskhUgqhoejg
pejhqxjphpxht fehbxxq!hUplhugcxgj!hJrjscxgjhlgxzphejshugqhUyngjhPoueyk”

“Mjseumphpx,”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,hpw jjdngbhejsheugqhznoehenphjyixz;h“i o
no’phijoojshzejghxgjhqxjphbxxqhpxhoeuohcx htuchuplhjrjscxgjhugqhgxhxgj
lgxzpk”

Lnoochqnqhgxohugpzjs,hgxohijfu pjhpejheuqhgxoengbhoxhpuc,hi ohijfu pj
pejhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhsjrjuyhejshpjfsjohoex beophjrjghoxhejshauoejskhI o,
posugbjhoxhpuc,huyoex behpejheuqhpxhtuqjh mhejshtngqhgxohoxhij
ngay jgfjqhichejshauoejs’phrnjzp,hgxohoxhyjohenthngoxhejshngtxpo
pugfo usc,hpejhajyohoeuohoejhejurjgychntubjhxahTuqutjhPouey,hzenfehpej
euqhfussnjqhaxshuhzexyjhtxgoehnghejshejuso,heuqhrugnpejq,hgjrjshox
sjo sg,h. pohuphoejhaugouponfhanb sjhtuqjh mhxahpxtjhfyxoejphoesxzg
qxzghuohsugqxthrugnpejphzejghxgjhpjjphoeuohnohnphxgychpxtjhbustjgo
ycngbhoejsjkhUyyhoeuohzuphyjaohzuphuhzxtughznoehpexsohyjbp,hzexhyuc
qxzghijfu pjhpejheuqhuhiuqhanb sj,hugqhzxssnjqhmuonjgohRusjgluhaxshgxo
ussugbngbhejshs bhoxhejshynlngbkhUgqhichgxhjaaxsohxahoejhntubnguonxg
fx yqhLnoochisngbhiuflhoejhaxstjshTuqutjhPoueyk


Feumojsh35

Oejhmsngfjhfxtt gnfuojqhenphbxxqhe txshoxhenphxzghautnychugqhenp
asnjgqp,hugqhjrjghoxhoejhBjstughyugqyxsqhnghzexpjhsxxtphoej
Peofejsiuoplcphzjsjhpoucngbk

XghfxtngbhiuflhznoehLnoochasxthoejhpmsngbp,hoejhmsngfj,hzexheuqhupljq
oejhfxyxgjy,hugqhTuscuhCjrbjgcjrgu,hugqhRusjgluhuyyhoxhfxtjhugqheurj
fxaajjhznoehoejt,hburjhxsqjsphaxshuhouiyjhugqhfeunsphoxhijhouljghngox
oejhbusqjgh gqjshoejhfejpog ohosjj,hugqhy gfehoxhijhyunqhoejsjkhOej
yugqyxsqhugqhoejhpjsrugop,hoxx,hbsjzhisnpljsh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahenp
bxxqhpmnsnopkhOejchlgjzhenphxmjg-eugqjqgjpp;hugqheuyahughex shyuojshoej
ngruynqhqxfoxshasxthEuti sb,hzexhynrjqhxghoejhoxmhayxxs,hyxxljq
jgrnx pychx ohxahoejhzngqxzhuohoejhtjsschmusochxahejuyoechS ppnugp
uppjtiyjqh gqjshoejhfejpog ohosjjkhNghoejhosjtiyngbhfnsfyjphxahpeuqxz
fupohichoejhyjurjp,huohuhouiyj,hfxrjsjqhznoehuhzenojhfyxoe,hugqhpjo
znoehfxaajjmxo,hisjuq-ugq-i oojs,hfejjpj,hugqhfxyqhbutj,hpuohoej
msngfjpphnghuhenbehfumhznoehynyufhsniixgp,hqnposni ongbhf mphugq
isjuq-ugq-i oojskhUohoejhxoejshjgqhpuohoejhmsngfj,hjuongbhejusonyc,hugq
ouylngbhyx qychugqhtjssnyckhOejhmsngfjheuqhpmsjuqhx ohgjushenthenp
m sfeupjp,hfusrjqhixvjp,hugqhlgnfl-lguflp,hmumjs-lgnrjphxahuyyhpxsop,
xahzenfehejhix beohuhejumhuohjrjschzuojsngb-myufj,hugqhijpoxzjqhoejt
 mxghjrjscxgj,hngfy qngbhYnjpfejg,hoejhpjsrugohbnsy,hugqhoejhyugqyxsq,
znoehzexthejh.jpojqhnghenphfxtnfuyychiuqhBjstug,hupp sngbhenthoeuohno
zuphgxohoejhzuojsheuqhf sjqhLnooc,hi ohenphpmyjgqnqhfxxljsc,hjpmjfnuyyc
enphmy thpx mkhOejhmsngfjpphyu bejqhuohejshe piugqhaxshenphS ppnug
zucp,hi ohpejhzuphtxsjhynrjychugqhbxxq-e txsjqhoeughpejheuqhijjghuyy
oejhzenyjhpejheuqhijjghuohoejhzuojspkhOejhfxyxgjyhptnyjq,huphejhuyzucp
qnq,huohoejhmsngfj’ph.xljp,hi ohuphaushuphsjbusqphJ sxmj,hxahzenfehej
ijynjrjqhentpjyahoxhijhtulngbhuhfusja yhpo qc,hejhoxxlhoejhmsngfjpp’p
pnqjkhOejhpntmyj-ejusojqhTuscuhCjrbjgcjrguhpntmychsxusjqhznoehyu beojs
uohjrjscoengbhuip sqhoejhmsngfjhpunq,hugqhenph.xljphtuqjhRusjglu
ejymyjpphznoehajjiyjhi ohngajfonx phyu beojs,hzenfehzuphpxtjoengbhLnooc
euqhgjrjshpjjghijaxsjk

Lnoochzuphbyuqhxahuyyhoenp,hi ohpejhfx yqhgxohijhynbeo-ejusojqkhPej
fx yqhgxohpxyrjhoejhmsxiyjthejshauoejsheuqh gfxgpfnx pychpjohejshichenp
bxxq-e txsjqhrnjzhxahejshasnjgqp,hugqhxahoejhynajhoeuoheuqhpxhuoosufojq
ejskhOxhoenphqx iohoejsjhzuph.xngjqhoejhfeugbjhnghejshsjyuonxgphznoe
oejhMjosxrp,hzenfeheuqhijjghpxhfxgpmnf x pychugqh gmyjupugoychtusljq
oeuohtxsgngbkhJrjscxgjhzuphbxxq-e txsjq,hi ohLnoochfx yqhgxohajjy
bxxq-e txsjq,hugqhoenphngfsjupjqhejshqnposjppkhPejhajyohuhajjyngbhp fe
uphpejheuqhlgxzghnghfenyqexxq,hzejghpejheuqhijjghpe ohnghejshsxxthuphu
m gnpetjgo,hugqheuqhejusqhejshpnpojsp’htjsschyu beojshx opnqjk

“Zjyy,hi ohzeuohqnqhcx hi choenphtupphxahoengbphaxs?”hpunqhoej
msngfjpp,hptnyngb,hugqheugqngbhejshe piugqhuhf mhxahfxaajjk

“Xgjhbxjphaxshuhzuyl,hxgjhyxxlphnghuhpexm,hugqhoejchuplhcx hoxhi ck
‘_Jsyu feo,hQ sfeyu feo?_’hQnsjfoychoejchpuch‘_Q sfeyu feo_,’hNhfug’o
exyqhx okhNhyxpjhojghoeuyjspk”

“No’phpntmychasxthixsjqxt,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Xahfx spjhnohnpkhP fehixsjqxt,htchqjus,hoeuohxgjhqxjpg’ohlgxzhzeuohox
qxhznoehxgjpjyak”

“Exzhfughcx hijhixsjq,hmsngfj?hOejsj’phpxht fehoeuo’phngojsjpongbhgxz
nghBjstugc,”hpunqhTuscuhCjrbjgcjrguk

“I ohNhlgxzhjrjscoengbhoeuo’phngojsjpongb:hoejhmy thpx mhNhlgxz,hugq
oejhmjuhpu pubjphNhlgxzkhNhlgxzhjrjscoengbk”

“Gx,hcx htuchpuchzeuohcx hynlj,hmsngfj,hoejsj’phoejhngojsjpohxahoejns
ngpono onxgp,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyk

“I ohzeuohnphoejsjhngojsjpongbhuix ohno?hOejc’sjhuyyhuphmyjupjqhup
isuppheuyamjgfjkhOejc’rjhfxgw jsjqhjrjscixqc,hugqhzechuthNhoxhij
myjupjqhuohoeuo?hNheurjg’ohfxgw jsjqhugcxgj;hugqhN’thxiynbjqhoxhoulj
xaahtchxzghixxop,hcjp,hugqhm ohoejthuzuchoxx;hnghoejhtxsgngb,hbjoh m
ugqhqsjpphuohxgfj,hugqhbxhoxhoejhqngngb-sxxthoxhqsnglhiuqhoju!hExz
qnaajsjgohnohnphuohextj!hCx hbjoh mhnghgxheupoj,hcx hbjohfsxpp,hbs tiyj
uhynooyj,hugqhfxtjhsx gqhubungkhCx ’rjhontjhoxhoenglhoengbphxrjs,hugq
gxhe ssck”

“I ohontj’phtxgjc,hcx haxsbjohoeuo,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyk

“Ontj,hngqjjq,hoeuohqjmjgqp!hZec,hoejsj’phontjhxgjhzx yqhbnrjhuhtxgoe
xahaxshpnvmjgfj,hugqhontjhcx hzx yqg’ohbnrjheuyahughex shxahaxshugc
txgjckhNpg’ohoeuohpx,hLuonglu?hZeuohnphno?hzechusjhcx hpxhqjmsjppjq?”

“N’thgxohqjmsjppjqk”

“Zejsjhusjhcx hxaahox?hPouchuhynooyjhyxgbjs,”hejhpunqhoxhRusjgluk

“Nht pohijhbxngbhextj,”hpunqhRusjglu,hbjoongbh m,hugqhubunghpejhzjgo
xaahngoxhuhbnbbyjkhZejghpejheuqhsjfxrjsjq,hpejhpunqhbxxq-icj,hugqhzjgo
ngoxhoejhex pjhoxhbjohejsheuok

LnoochaxyyxzjqhejskhJrjghRusjgluhpos flhejshuphqnaajsjgokhPejhzuphgxo
zxspj,hi ohqnaajsjgohasxthzeuohpejheuqhaugfnjqhejshijaxsjk

“Xe,hqjus!hno’phuhyxgbhzenyjhpngfjhN’rjhyu bejqhpxht fe!”hpunqhRusjglu,
buoejsngbh mhejshmusupxyhugqhejshiubkh“Exzhgnfjhejhnp,hcx shauoejs!”

Lnoochqnqhgxohpmjulk

“ZejghpeuyyhNhpjjhcx hubung?”hupljqhRusjgluk

“TuttuhtjugohoxhbxhugqhpjjhoejhMjosxrpkhZxg’ohcx hijhoejsj?”hpunq
Lnooc,hoxhoschRusjgluk

“Cjp,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglukh“Oejc’sjhbjoongbhsjuqchoxhbxhuzuc,hpxhN
msxtnpjqhoxhejymhoejthmuflk”

“Zjyy,hN’yyhfxtjhoxx,hoejgk”

“Gx,hzechpex yqhcx ?”

“Zechgxo?hzechgxo?hzechgxo?”hpunqhLnooc,hxmjgngbhejshjcjphznqj,hugq
fy ofengbhuohRusjglu’phmusupxy,hpxhuphgxohoxhyjohejshbxkh“Gx,hzunohu
tng oj;hzechgxo?”

“Xe,hgxoengb;hcx shauoejsheuphfxtj,hugqhijpnqjp,hoejchznyyhajjyhuzlzusq
uohcx shejymngbk”

“Gx,hojyyhtjhzechcx hqxg’ohzugohtjhoxhijhxaojghuohoejhMjosxrp’khCx 
qxg’ohzugohtjhox—zechgxo?”

“Nhqnqg’ohpuchoeuo,”hpunqhRusjgluhw njoyck

“Gx,hmyjupjhojyyhtj!”

“Ojyyhcx hjrjscoengb?”hupljqhRusjgluk

“Jrjscoengb,hjrjscoengb!”hLnoochuppjgojqk

“Zjyy,hoejsj’phsjuyychgxoengbhxahugchfxgpjw jgfj;hxgychoeuohTneuny
Uyjvjcjrnofe”h(oeuohzuphoejhusonpo’phgutj)h“euqhtjugohoxhyjurjhjusynjs,
ugqhgxzhejhqxjpg’ohzugohoxhbxhuzuc,”hpunqhRusjglu,hptnyngbk

“Zjyy,hzjyy!”hLnooch sbjqhntmuonjgoyc,hyxxlngbhquslychuohRusjgluk

“Zjyy,hugqhaxshpxtjhsjupxghUgguhMuryxrguhoxyqhenthoeuohejhqnqg’ohzugo
oxhbxhijfu pjhcx husjhejsjkhXahfx spj,hoeuohzuphgxgpjgpj;hi ohoejsjhzup
uhqnpm ojhxrjshno—xrjshcx khCx hlgxzhexzhnssnouiyjhoejpjhpnflhmjxmyj
usjk”

Lnooc,hpfxzyngbhtxsjhoeughjrjs,hljmohpnyjgo,hugqhRusjgluhzjgohxg
pmjulngbhuyxgj,hoscngbhoxhpxaojghxshpxxoejhejs,hugqhpjjngbhuhpoxst
fxtngb—pejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshxahojusphxshxahzxsqpk

“Pxhcx ’qhijoojshgxohbxkkkkhCx h gqjspougq;hcx hzxg’ohijhxaajgqjq?kkk”

“Ugqhnohpjsrjphtjhsnbeo!hUgqhnohpjsrjphtjhsnbeo!”hLnoochfsnjqhw nflyc,
pguofengbhoejhmusupxyhx ohxahRusjglu’pheugq,hugqhyxxlngbhmupohejs
asnjgq’phaufjk

Rusjgluhajyohngfyngjqhoxhptnyj,hyxxlngbhuohejshfenyqnpeha sc,hi ohpej
zuphuasunqhxahzx gqngbhejsk

“Exzhqxjphnohpjsrjhcx hsnbeo?hNhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpejhpunqk

“Nohpjsrjphtjhsnbeo,hijfu pjhnohzuphuyyhpeut;hijfu pjhnohzuphuyyhqxgj
xghm smxpj,hugqhgxohasxthoejhejusokhZeuohi pngjppheuqhNhoxhngojsajsj
znoehx opnqjsp?hUgqhpxhno’phfxtjhuix ohoeuohN’thuhfu pjhxahw ussjy,hugq
oeuohN’rjhqxgjhzeuohgxixqchupljqhtjhoxhqxkhIjfu pjhnohzuphuyyhuhpeut!hu
peut!huhpeut!kkk”

“Uhpeut!hznoehzeuohxi.jfo?”hpunqhRusjgluhbjgoyck

“Xe,hno’phpxhnqnxonf!hpxheuoja y!hOejsjhzuphgxhgjjqhzeuojrjshaxshtjkkkk
Gxoengbhi ohpeut!”hpejhpunq,hxmjgngbhugqhpe oongbhoejhmusupxyk

“I ohznoehzeuohxi.jfo?”

“Oxhpjjthijoojshoxhmjxmyj,hoxhtcpjya,hoxhBxq;hoxhqjfjnrjhjrjscxgjkhGx!
gxzhNhzxg’ohqjpfjgqhoxhoeuokhN’yyhijhiuq;hi ohugczuchgxohuhynus,hu
fejuok”

“I ohzexhnphuhfejuo?”hpunqhRusjgluhsjmsxufea yyckh“Cx hpmjulhuphnakkkk”

I ohLnoochzuphnghxgjhxahejshb pophxaha sc,hugqhpejhzx yqhgxohyjohejs
angnpek

“Nhqxg’ohouylhuix ohcx ,hgxohuix ohcx huohuyykhCx ’sjhmjsajfonxgkhCjp,
cjp,hNhlgxzhcx ’sjhuyyhmjsajfonxg;hi ohzeuohuthNhoxhqxhnahN’thiuq?hOenp
zx yqhgjrjsheurjhijjghnahNhzjsjg’ohiuqkhPxhyjohtjhijhzeuohNhutkhNhzxg’o
ijhuhpeutkhZeuoheurjhNhoxhqxhznoehUgguhMuryxrgu?hYjohoejthbxhoejnshzuc,
ugqhtjhbxhtngjkhNhfug’ohijhqnaajsjgokkkkhUgqhcjohno’phgxohoeuo,hno’p
gxohoeuok”

“Zeuohnphgxohoeuo?”hupljqhRusjgluhnghijznyqjstjgok

“JrjscoengbkhNhfug’ohufohjvfjmohasxthoejhejuso,hugqhcx hufohasxt
msngfnmyjkhNhynljqhcx hpntmyc,hi ohcx htxpohynljychxgychzugojqhoxhpurj
tj,hoxhntmsxrjhtjk”

“Cx husjh g. po,”hpunqhRusjgluk

“I ohN’thgxohpmjulngbhxahxoejshmjxmyj,hN’thpmjulngbhxahtcpjyak”

“Lnooc,”hoejchejusqhejshtxoejs’phrxnfj,h“fxtjhejsj,hpexzhmumuhcx s
gjflyufjk”

Lnooc,hznoehuheu beochuns,hznoex ohtulngbhmjufjhznoehejshasnjgq,hoxxl
oejhgjflyufjhnghuhynooyjhixvhasxthoejhouiyjhugqhzjgohoxhejshtxoejsk

“Zeuo’phoejhtuoojs?hZechusjhcx hpxhsjq?”hejshtxoejshugqhauoejshpunqhox
ejshznoehxgjhrxnfjk

“Gxoengb,”hpejhugpzjsjqkh“N’yyhijhiuflhqnsjfoyc,”hugqhpejhsughiuflk

“Pej’phponyyhejsj,”hpejhoex beokh“ZeuohuthNhoxhpuchoxhejs?hXe,hqjus!
zeuoheurjhNhqxgj,hzeuoheurjhNhpunq?hZechzuphNhs qjhoxhejs?hZeuohuthNhox
qx?hZeuohuthNhoxhpuchoxhejs?”hoex beohLnooc,hugqhpejhpoxmmjqhnghoej
qxxszuck

Rusjgluhnghejsheuohugqhznoehoejhmusupxyhnghejsheugqphzuphpnoongbhuohoej
ouiyjhjvutngngbhoejhpmsngbhzenfehLnoocheuqhisxljgkhPejhynaojqhejshejuqk

“Rusjglu,haxsbnrjhtj,hqxhaxsbnrjhtj,”hzenpmjsjqhLnooc,hbxngbh mhoxhejsk
“Nhqxg’ohsjtjtijshzeuohNhpunqkhNkkkk”

“Nhsjuyychqnqg’ohtjughoxhe sohcx ,”hpunqhRusjglu,hptnyngbk

MjufjhzuphtuqjkhI ohznoehejshauoejs’phfxtngbhuyyhoejhzxsyqhnghzenfehpej
euqhijjghynrngbhzuphosugpaxstjqhaxshLnoockhPejhqnqhgxohbnrjh m
jrjscoengbhpejheuqhyjusgjq,hi ohpejhijfutjhuzusjhoeuohpejheuqhqjfjnrjq
ejspjyahnghp mmxpngbhpejhfx yqhijhzeuohpejhzugojqhoxhijkhEjshjcjphzjsj,
nohpjjtjq,hxmjgjq;hpejhajyohuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahtungoungngbhejspjya
znoex ohecmxfsnpchugqhpjya-fxgfjnohxghoejhmnggufyjhoxhzenfehpejheuq
znpejqhoxhtx gokhTxsjxrjs,hpejhijfutjhuzusjhxahuyyhoejhqsjusngjpphxa
oejhzxsyqhxahpxssxz,hxahpnflhugqhqcngbhmjxmyj,hnghzenfehpejheuqhijjg
ynrngbkhOejhjaaxsophpejheuqhtuqjhoxhynljhnohpjjtjqhoxhejshngoxyjsuiyj,
ugqhpejhajyohuhyxgbngbhoxhbjohiuflhw nflychngoxhoejhasjpehuns,hox
S ppnu,hoxhJsb pexrx,hzejsj,huphpejhlgjzhasxthyjoojsp,hejshpnpojshQxyyc
euqhuysjuqchbxgjhznoehejshfenyqsjgk

I ohejshuaajfonxghaxshRusjgluhqnqhgxohzugjkhUphpejhpunqhbxxq-icj,hLnooc
ijbbjqhejshoxhfxtjhoxhoejthnghS ppnuk

“N’yyhfxtjhzejghcx hbjohtussnjq,”hpunqhRusjgluk

“Nhpeuyyhgjrjshtussck”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hNhpeuyyhgjrjshfxtjk”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hNhpeuyyhijhtussnjqhpntmychaxshoeuokhTngqhgxz,hsjtjtijs
cx shmsxtnpj,”hpunqhLnoock

Oejhqxfoxs’phmsjqnfonxghzupha yanyyjqkhLnoochsjo sgjqhextjhoxhS ppnu
f sjqkhPejhzuphgxohpxhbuchugqhoex beoyjpphuphijaxsj,hi ohpejhzup
pjsjgjkhEjshTxpfxzhosx iyjpheuqhijfxtjhuhtjtxschoxhejsk






MUSOhOESJJ


Feumojsh1

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehLxdgnpejrhzugojqhuhsjpohasxthtjgouyhzxsl,hugqhngpojuq
xahbxngbhuisxuqhuphejh p uyychqnq,hejhfutjhoxzusqphoejhjgqhxahTuchox
pouchnghoejhfx goschznoehenphisxoejskhNghenph. qbtjgohoejhijpohpxsohxa
ynajhzuphuhfx goschynajkhEjheuqhfxtjhgxzhoxhjg.xchp fehuhynajhuohenp
isxoejs’pkhLxgpougonghYjrnghzuphrjschbyuqhoxheurjhent,hjpmjfnuyychuphej
qnqhgxohjvmjfohenphisxoejshGnlxyuchoeuohp ttjskhI ohnghpmnojhxahenp
uaajfonxghugqhsjpmjfohaxshPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hLxgpougonghYjrnghzup
 gfxtaxsouiyjhznoehenphisxoejshnghoejhfx gosckhNohtuqjhent
 gfxtaxsouiyj,hugqhnohmxpnonrjychuggxcjqhenthoxhpjjhenphisxoejs’p
uoono qjhoxhoejhfx gosckhOxhLxgpougonghYjrnghoejhfx goschzuphoej
iuflbsx gqhxahynaj,hoeuohnphxahmyjup sjp,hjgqjurxsp,hyuixskhOxhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehoejhfx goschtjugohxghxgjheugqhsjpohasxthzxsl,hxghoejhxoejshu
ruy uiyjhugonqxojhoxhoejhfxss mohngay jgfjphxahoxzg,hzenfehejhoxxlhznoe
puonpaufonxghugqhuhpjgpjhxahnoph onynockhOxhLxgpougonghYjrnghoej
fx goschzuphbxxqhanspohijfu pjhnohuaaxsqjqhuhanjyqhaxshyuixs,hxahoej
 pja ygjpphxahzenfehoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx iokhOxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehoej
fx goschzuphmusonf yusychbxxq,hijfu pjhoejsjhnohzuphmxppniyjhugq
anoongbhoxhqxhgxoengbkhTxsjxrjs,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phuoono qjhoxhoej
mjupugophsuoejshmnw jqhLxgpougongkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofeh pjqhoxhpuchoeuo
ejhlgjzhugqhynljqhoejhmjupugosc,hugqhejhxaojghouyljqhoxhoejhmjupugop,
zenfehejhlgjzhexzhoxhqxhznoex ohuaajfouonxghxshfxgqjpfjgpnxg,hugqhasxt
jrjschp fehfxgrjspuonxghejhzx yqhqjq fjhbjgjsuyhfxgfy pnxgphnghaurxshxa
oejhmjupugoschugqhnghfxganstuonxghxahenphlgxzngbhoejtkhLxgpougonghYjrng
qnqhgxohynljhp fehughuoono qjhoxhoejhmjupugopkhOxhLxgpougonghoej
mjupugohzuphpntmychoejhfenjahmusogjshnghoejnshfxttxghyuixs,hugqhng
pmnojhxahuyyhoejhsjpmjfohugqhoejhyxrj,huytxpohynljhoeuohxahlngpenm,hej
euqhaxshoejhmjupugo—p fljqhnghmsxiuiyc,huphejhpunqhentpjya,hznoehoej
tnylhxahenphmjupugohg spj—ponyyhuphuhajyyxz-zxsljshznoehent,hzenyj
pxtjontjphjgoe pnuponfhxrjshoejhrnbxs,hbjgoyjgjpp,hugqh. ponfjhxahoejpj
tjg,hejhzuphrjschxaojg,hzejghoejnshfxttxghyuixsphfuyyjqhaxshxoejs
w uynonjp,hjvupmjsuojqhznoehoejhmjupugohaxshenphfusjyjppgjpp,hyuflhxa
tjoexq,hqs gljggjpp,hugqhycngbkhNahejheuqhijjghupljqhzejoejshejhynljq
xshqnqg’ohynljhoejhmjupugop,hLxgpougonghYjrnghzx yqheurjhijjg
uipxy ojychuohuhyxpphzeuohoxhsjmyckhEjhynljqhugqhqnqhgxohynljhoej
mjupugop,h. pohuphejhynljqhugqhqnqhgxohynljhtjghnghbjgjsuykhXahfx spj,
ijngbhuhbxxq-ejusojqhtug,hejhynljqhtjghsuoejshoeughejhqnpynljqhoejt,
ugqhpxhoxxhznoehoejhmjupugopkhI ohynljhxshqnpynljh“oejhmjxmyj”hup
pxtjoengbhumusohejhfx yqhgxo,hgxohxgychijfu pjhejhynrjqhznoeh“oej
mjxmyj,”hugqhuyyhenphngojsjpophzjsjhix gqh mhznoehoejnsp,hi ohuypx
ijfu pjhejhsjbusqjqhentpjyahuphuhmusohxah“oejhmjxmyj,”hqnqhgxohpjjhugc
pmjfnuyhw uynonjphxshaunyngbphqnpongb npengbhentpjyahugqh“oejhmjxmyj,”
ugqhfx yqhgxohfxgosupohentpjyahznoehoejtkhTxsjxrjs,huyoex behejheuq
ynrjqhpxhyxgbhnghoejhfyxpjpohsjyuonxgphznoehoejhmjupugop,huphaustjshugq
usinosuoxs,hugqhzeuohzuphtxsj,huphuqrnpjsh(oejhmjupugophos pojqhent,
ugqhaxshoensochtnyjphsx gqhoejchzx yqhfxtjhoxhuplhenphuqrnfj),hejheuq
gxhqjangnojhrnjzphxah“oejhmjxmyj,”hugqhzx yqheurjhijjghupht fehuohu
yxpphoxhugpzjshoejhw jponxghzejoejshejhlgjzh“oejhmjxmyj”huphoej
w jponxghzejoejshejhynljqhoejtkhAxshenthoxhpuchejhlgjzhoejhmjupugosc
zx yqheurjhijjghoejhputjhuphoxhpuchejhlgjzhtjgkhEjhzuphfxgong uyyc
zuofengbhugqhbjoongbhoxhlgxzhmjxmyjhxahuyyhpxsop,hugqhutxgbhoejt
mjupugop,hzexthejhsjbusqjqhuphbxxqhugqhngojsjpongbhmjxmyj,hugqhejhzup
fxgong uyychxipjsrngbhgjzhmxngophnghoejt,huyojsngbhenphaxstjshrnjzphxa
oejthugqhaxstngbhgjzhxgjpkhZnoehPjsbjchNrugxrnofehnohzuphw nojhoej
fxgosusckh. pohuphejhynljqhugqhmsunpjqhuhfx goschynajhnghfxtmusnpxg
znoehoejhynajhejhqnqhgxohynlj,hpxhoxxhejhynljqhoejhmjupugoschng
fxgosuqnpongfonxghoxhoejhfyupphxahtjghejhqnqhgxohynlj,hugqhpxhoxxhej
lgjzhoejhmjupugoschuphpxtjoengbhqnpongfohasxthugqhxmmxpjqhoxhtjg
bjgjsuyyckhNghenphtjoexqnfuyhisunghoejsjhzjsjhqnpongfoychaxst yuojq
fjsounghupmjfophxahmjupugohynaj,hqjq fjqhmusoychasxthoeuohynajhnopjya,
i ohfenjaychasxthfxgosupohznoehxoejshtxqjphxahynajkhEjhgjrjshfeugbjq
enphxmngnxghxahoejhmjupugoschugqhenphpctmuoejonfhuoono qjhoxzusqphoejtk

Nghoejhqnpf ppnxgphoeuohusxpjhijozjjghoejhisxoejsphxghoejnshrnjzphxa
oejhmjupugosc,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehuyzucphbxohoejhijoojshxahenphisxoejs,
msjfnpjychijfu pjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhqjangnojhnqjuphuix ohoej
mjupugo—enphfeusufojs,henphw uynonjp,hugqhenphoupojpkhLxgpougonghYjrng
euqhgxhqjangnojhugqh guyojsuiyjhnqjuhxghoejhp i.jfo,hugqhpxhnghoejns
usb tjgophLxgpougonghzuphsjuqnychfxgrnfojqhxahfxgosuqnfongbhentpjyak

NghPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phjcjphenphcx gbjshisxoejshzuphuhfumnouyhajyyxz,
_znoehenphejusohnghoejhsnbeohmyufj_h(uphejhjvmsjppjqhnohnghAsjgfe),hi o
znoehuhtngqhzenfe,hoex behaunsychw nfl,hzuphoxxht fehngay jgfjqhichoej
ntmsjppnxgphxahoejhtxtjgo,hugqhfxgpjw jgoychanyyjqhznoehfxgosuqnfonxgpk
Znoehuyyhoejhfxgqjpfjgpnxghxahughjyqjshisxoejshejhpxtjontjphjvmyungjq
oxhenthoejhos jhntmxsohxahoengbp,hi ohejhqjsnrjqhynooyjhpuonpaufonxg
asxthusb ngbhznoehenthijfu pjhejhbxohoejhijoojshxahenthoxxhjupnyck

LxgpougonghYjrnghsjbusqjqhenphisxoejshuphuhtughxahnttjgpjhngojyyjfohugq
f yo sj,huphbjgjsx phnghoejhenbejpohpjgpjhxahoejhzxsq,hugqhmxppjppjqhxa
uhpmjfnuyhauf yochaxshzxslngbhaxshoejhm iynfhbxxqkhI ohnghoejhqjmoephxa
enphejuso,hoejhxyqjshejhijfutj,hugqhoejhtxsjhngontuojychejhlgjzhenp
isxoejs,hoejhtxsjhugqhtxsjhasjw jgoychoejhoex beohpos flhenthoeuohoenp
auf yochxahzxslngbhaxshoejhm iynfhbxxq,hxahzenfehejhajyohentpjya
 oojsychqjrxnq,hzuphmxppniychgxohpxht fehuhw uynochuphuhyuflhxa
pxtjoengb—gxohuhyuflhxahbxxq,hexgjpo,hgxiyjhqjpnsjphugqhoupojp,hi ohu
yuflhxahrnouyhaxsfj,hxahzeuohnphfuyyjqhejuso,hxahoeuohntm ypjhzenfe
qsnrjphuhtughoxhfexxpjhpxtjxgjhx ohxahoejhngg tjsuiyjhmuoephxahynaj,
ugqhoxhfusjhxgychaxshoeuohxgjkhOejhijoojshejhlgjzhenphisxoejs,hoejhtxsj
ejhgxonfjqhoeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhtugchxoejshmjxmyjhzexhzxsljqhaxs
oejhm iynfhzjyausj,hzjsjhgxohyjqhichughntm ypjhxahoejhejusohoxhfusjhaxs
oejhm iynfhbxxq,hi ohsjupxgjqhasxthngojyyjfo uyhfxgpnqjsuonxgphoeuohno
zuphuhsnbeohoengbhoxhouljhngojsjpohnghm iynfhuaaunsp,hugqhfxgpjw jgoyc
oxxlhngojsjpohnghoejtkhYjrnghzuphfxganstjqhnghoenphbjgjsuynduonxghic
xipjsrngbhoeuohenphisxoejshqnqhgxohouljhw jponxgphuaajfongbhoejhm iynf
zjyausjhxshoejhw jponxghxahoejhnttxsouynochxahoejhpx yhuhinohtxsjhox
ejusohoeughejhqnqhfejpphmsxiyjtp,hxshoejhngbjgnx phfxgpos fonxghxahu
gjzhtufengjk

Ijpnqjphoenp,hLxgpougonghYjrnghzuphgxohuohenphjupjhznoehenphisxoejs,
ijfu pjhnghp ttjshnghoejhfx goschYjrnghzuphfxgong uyychi pchznoehzxsl
xghoejhyugq,hugqhoejhyxgbhp ttjshquchzuphgxohyxgbhjgx behaxshenthoxhbjo
oesx behuyyhejheuqhoxhqx,hzenyjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphoulngbhuhexynquck
I ohoex behejhzuphoulngbhuhexynquchgxz,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hejhzuphqxngbhgx
zsnongb,hejhzuphpxh pjqhoxhngojyyjfo uyhufonrnochoeuohejhynljqhoxhm o
ngoxhfxgfnpjhugqhjyxw jgohpeumjhoejhnqjuphoeuohxff ssjqhoxhent,hugq
ynljqhoxheurjhpxtjxgjhoxhynpojghoxhentkhEnphtxpoh p uyhugqhguo suy
ynpojgjshzuphenphisxoejskhUgqhpxhnghpmnojhxahoejhasnjgqyngjpphugq
qnsjfogjpphxahoejnshsjyuonxgp,hLxgpougonghajyohughuzlzusqgjpphng
yjurngbhenthuyxgjkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehynljqhoxhposjofehentpjyahxghoej
bsupphnghoejhp g,hugqhoxhynjhpx,hiuplngbhugqhfeuoongbhyudnyck

“Cx hzx yqg’ohijynjrj,”hejhzx yqhpuchoxhenphisxoejs,h“zeuohuhmyjup sj
oenphs suyhyudngjpphnphoxhtjkhGxohughnqjuhnghxgj’phisung,huphjtmochuphu
qs t!”

I ohLxgpougonghYjrnghax gqhnohq yyhpnoongbhugqhynpojgngbhoxhent,
jpmjfnuyychzejghejhlgjzhoeuohzenyjhejhzuphuzuchoejchzx yqhijhfusongb
q gbhxgoxhoejhanjyqphgxohmyx bejqhsjuqchaxshno,hugqhejumngbhnohuyyh m
ugcexz;hugqhzx yqhgxohpfsjzhoejhpeusjphnghoejhmyx bep,hi ohzx yqhyjo
oejthfxtjhxaahugqhoejghpuchoeuohoejhgjzhmyx bephzjsjhuhpnyychngrjgonxg,
ugqhoejsjhzuphgxoengbhynljhoejhxyqhUgqsjjrguhmyx be,hugqhpxhxgk

“Fxtj,hcx ’rjhqxgjhjgx behos qbngbhuix ohnghoejhejuo,”hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehzx yqhpuchoxhentk

“Gx,hNht poh. pohs ghsx gqhoxhoejhfx gongb-ex pjhaxshuhtng oj,”hYjrng
zx yqhugpzjs,hugqhejhzx yqhs ghxaahoxhoejhanjyqpk


Feumojsh2

Jusychngh. gjhnoheummjgjqhoeuohUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hoejhxyqhg spjhugq
ex pjljjmjs,hnghfusscngbhoxhoejhfjyyushuh.ushxaht pesxxtphpejheuqh. po
mnflyjq,hpynmmjq,hajyy,hugqhpmsungjqhejshzsnpokhOejhqnposnfohqxfoxs,hu
ouyluonrjhcx gbhtjqnfuyhpo qjgo,hzexheuqh. pohangnpejqhenphpo qnjp,
futjhoxhpjjhejskhEjhjvutngjqhoejhzsnpo,hpunqhnohzuphgxohisxljg,hzup
qjynbeojqhuohuhfeugfjhxahouylngbhoxhoejhfjyjisuojqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
Lxdgnpejr,hugqhoxhpexzhenphuqrugfjqhrnjzphxahoengbphoxyqhenthuyyhoej
pfugquyhxahoejhqnposnfo,hfxtmyungngbhxahoejhmxxshpouojhngoxhzenfehoej
qnposnfohfx gfnyheuqhauyyjgkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehynpojgjqhuoojgonrjyc,
upljqhenthw jponxgp,hugq,hsx pjqhichuhgjzhynpojgjs,hejhouyljqhay jgoyc,
 oojsjqhuhajzhljjghugqhzjnbeochxipjsruonxgp,hsjpmjfoa yychummsjfnuojq
ichoejhcx gbhqxfoxs,hugqhzuphpxxghnghoeuohjubjshasutjhxahtngqhenp
isxoejshlgjzhpxhzjyy,hzenfehuyzucp,hznoehent,haxyyxzjqhuhisnyynugohugq
jubjshfxgrjspuonxgkhUaojshoejhqjmuso sjhxahoejhqxfoxs,hejhzugojqhoxhbx
znoehuhanpengbhsxqhoxhoejhsnrjskhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphaxgqhxahugbyngb,
ugqhzup,hnohpjjtjq,hmsx qhxahijngbhuiyjhoxhfusjhaxshp fehuhpo mnq
xff muonxgk

LxgpougonghYjrng,hzexpjhmsjpjgfjhzuphgjjqjqhnghoejhmyx behyugqhugq
tjuqxzp,heuqhfxtjhoxhouljhenphisxoejshnghoejhosumk

Nohzuphoeuohontjhxahoejhcjus,hoejho sgngb-mxngohxahp ttjs,hzejghoej
fsxmphxahoejhmsjpjgohcjushusjhuhfjsoungoc,hzejghxgjhijbngphoxhoenglhxa
oejhpxzngbhaxshgjvohcjus,hugqhoejhtxzngbhnphuoheugq;hzejghoejhscjhnp
uyyhnghjus,hoex behnophjusphusjhponyyhynbeo,hgxohcjoha yy,hugqhnohzurjp
nghbsuc-bsjjghinyyxzphnghoejhzngq;hzejghoejhbsjjghxuop,hznoeho aophxa
cjyyxzhbsupphpfuoojsjqhejsjhugqhoejsjhutxgbhno,hqsxxmhnssjb yusychxrjs
oejhyuoj-pxzghanjyqp;hzejghoejhjusychi flzejuohnphuysjuqchx ohugq
enqngbhoejhbsx gq;hzejghoejhauyyxzhyugqp,hosxqqjgheusqhuphpoxgjhichoej
fuooyj,husjheuyahmyx bejqhxrjs,hznoehmuoephyjaoh gox fejqhichoej
myx be;hzejghasxthoejhqschq gb-ejumphfusojqhxgoxhoejhanjyqphoejsjhfxtjp
uohp gpjohuhptjyyhxahtug sjhtnvjqhznoehtjuqxz-pzjjo,hugqhxghoej
yxz-ycngbhyugqphoejhsnrjspnqjhtjuqxzphusjhuhoenflhpjuhxahbsupphzunongb
axshoejhtxzngb,hznoehiyufljgjqhejumphxahoejhpouylphxahpxssjyhutxgbhnok

Nohzuphoejhontjhzejghoejsjhfxtjphuhisnjahmu pjhnghoejhoxnyhxahoej
anjyqphijaxsjhoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhyuixsphxaheusrjpo—jrjschcjus
sjf ssngb,hjrjschcjushposungngbhjrjschgjsrjhxahoejhmjupugopkhOejhfsxm
zuphuhpmyjgqnqhxgj,hugqhisnbeo,hexohp ttjshqucpheuqhpjohnghznoehpexso,
qjzchgnbeopk

Oejhisxoejspheuqhoxhqsnrjhoesx behoejhzxxqphoxhsjufehoejhtjuqxzpk
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphuyyhoejhzenyjhuqtnsngbhoejhiju ochxahoejhzxxqp,
zenfehzjsjhuhougbyjqhtupphxahyjurjp,hmxngongbhx ohoxhenphisxoejshgxzhug
xyqhyntjhosjjhxghoejhmxngohxahayxzjsngb,hquslhxghoejhpeuqchpnqj,hugq
isnbeoychpmxoojqhznoehcjyyxzhponm yjp,hgxzhoejhcx gbhpexxophxahoenp
cjus’phpumyngbphisnyynugohznoehjtjsuyqkhLxgpougonghYjrnghqnqhgxohynlj
ouylngbhugqhejusngbhuix ohoejhiju ochxahguo sjkhZxsqphaxshenthoxxlhuzuc
oejhiju ochxahzeuohejhpuzkhEjhuppjgojqhoxhzeuohenphisxoejshpunq,hi ohej
fx yqhgxohejymhijbnggngbhoxhoenglhxahxoejshoengbpkhZejghoejchfutjhx o
xahoejhzxxqp,huyyhenphuoojgonxghzuphjgbsxppjqhichoejhrnjzhxahoejhauyyxz
yugqhxghoejh myugq,hnghmusophcjyyxzhznoehbsupp,hnghmusophosutmyjqhugq
fejfljsjqhznoeha ssxzp,hnghmusophqxoojqhznoehsnqbjphxahq gb,hugqhng
musophjrjghmyx bejqkhUhposngbhxahfusophzuphtxrngbhufsxpphnokhYjrng
fx gojqhoejhfusop,hugqhzuphmyjupjqhoeuohuyyhoeuohzjsjhzugojqheuqhijjg
isx beo,hugqhuohoejhpnbeohxahoejhtjuqxzphenphoex beophmuppjqhoxhoej
txzngbkhEjhuyzucphajyohpxtjoengbhpmjfnuyhtxrngbhenthoxhoejhw nflhuohoej
euc-tulngbkhXghsjufengbhoejhtjuqxzhYjrnghpoxmmjqhoejhexspjk

Oejhtxsgngbhqjzhzuphponyyhycngbhxghoejhoenflh gqjsbsxzoehxahoejhbsupp,
ugqhoeuohejhtnbeohgxohbjohenphajjohzjo,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehupljqhenp
isxoejshoxhqsnrjhenthnghoejhosumh mhoxhoejhznyyxzhosjjhasxthzenfehoej
fusmhzuphfu beokhPxsschuphLxgpougonghYjrnghzuphoxhfs pehqxzghenphtxzngb
bsupp,hejhqsxrjhenthngoxhoejhtjuqxzkhOejhenbehbsupphpxaoycho sgjqhuix o
oejhzejjyphugqhoejhexspj’phyjbp,hyjurngbhnophpjjqphfyngbngbhoxhoejhzjo
uvyjphugqhpmxljphxahoejhzejjypkhEnphisxoejshpjuojqhentpjyah gqjshu
i pe,hussugbngbhenphouflyj,hzenyjhYjrnghyjqhoejhexspjhuzuc,haupojgjq
enth m,hugqhzuyljqhngoxhoejhrupohbsuc-bsjjghpjuhxahbsupph gponssjqhic
oejhzngqkhOejhpnylchbsupphznoehnophsnmjhpjjqphfutjhuytxpohoxhenphzunpo
nghoejhqutmjpohpmxopk

Fsxppngbhoejhtjuqxz,hLxgpougonghYjrnghfutjhx ohxgoxhoejhsxuq,hugqhtjo
ughxyqhtughznoehuhpzxyyjghjcj,hfusscngbhuhpljmhxghenphpex yqjsk

“Zeuo?houljghuhposuchpzust,hAxtnofe?”hejhupljqk

“Gx,hngqjjq,hLxgpougonghQtnosnfe!hUyyhzjhfughqxhoxhljjmhx shxzg!hOenp
nphoejhpjfxgqhpzusthoeuoheuphayxzghuzuckkkkhY flnychoejhyuqphfu beo
oejtkhOejchzjsjhmyx bengbhcx shanjyqkhOejch gcxljqhoejhexspjphugq
buyyxmjqhuaojshoejtk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hpuc,hAxtnofe—pousohtxzngbhxshzunohuhino?”

“Je,hzjyykhX shzuc’phoxhzunohonyyhPokhMjojs’phQuckhI ohcx huyzucphtxz
pxxgjskhZjyy,hoxhijhp sj,hmyjupjhBxq,hoejheuc’phbxxqkhOejsj’yyhij
myjgochaxshoejhijupopk”

“Zeuohqxhcx hoenglhuix ohoejhzjuoejs?”

“Oeuo’phnghBxq’pheugqpkhTucijhnohznyyhijhangjk”

Yjrnghzjgoh mhoxhenphisxoejsk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhfu beohgxoengb,hi ohejhzuphgxohixsjq,hugqhpjjtjq
nghoejhtxpohfejjsa yhasutjhxahtngqkhYjrnghpuzhoeuo,hpont yuojqhichenp
fxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhqxfoxs,hejhzugojqhoxhouylkhYjrng,hxghoejhxoejs
eugq,hzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhbjohextjhuphpxxghuphmxppniyjhoxhbnrjhxsqjsp
uix ohbjoongbhoxbjoejshoejhtxzjsphaxshgjvohquc,hugqhoxhpjohuohsjpohenp
qx iophuix ohoejhtxzngb,hzenfehbsjuoychuipxsijqhentk

“Zjyy,hyjo’phijhbxngb,”hejhpunqk

“Zechijhnghp fehuhe ssc?hYjo’phpouchuhynooyjkhI ohexzhzjohcx husj!hJrjg
oex behxgjhfuofejphgxoengb,hno’phgnfjkhOeuo’phoejhijpohoengbhuix o
jrjschmusohxahpmxso,hoeuohxgjheuphoxhqxhznoehguo sjkhExzhjvw npnojhoenp
pojjychzuojshnp!”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“Oejpjhsnrjspnqjhiuglphuyzucp
sjtngqhtjhxahoejhsnqqyj—qxhcx hlgxzhno?h‘Oejhbsupphpucphoxhoejhzuojs:
zjhw nrjshugqhzjhw nrjsk’”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhoejhsnqqyj,”hugpzjsjqhYjrnghzjusnyck


Feumojsh3

“Qxhcx hlgxz,hN’rjhijjghoenglngbhuix ohcx ,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek
“No’phijcxgqhjrjscoengbhzeuo’phijngbhqxgjhnghoejhqnposnfo,huffxsqngbhox
zeuohoenphqxfoxshojyyphtjkhEj’phuhrjschngojyynbjgohajyyxzkhUgqhuphN’rj
oxyqhcx hijaxsj,hNhojyyhcx hubung:hno’phgxohsnbeohaxshcx hgxohoxhbxhox
oejhtjjongbp,hugqhuyoxbjoejshoxhljjmhx ohxahoejhqnposnfohi pngjppkhNa
qjfjgohmjxmyjhzxg’ohbxhngoxhno,hxahfx spjhno’phix gqhoxhbxhuyyhzsxgbk
Zjhmuchoejhtxgjc,hugqhnohuyyhbxjphnghpuyusnjp,hugqhoejsjhusjhgx
pfexxyp,hgxshqnposnfohg spjp,hgxshtnqznrjp,hgxshqs bpoxsjp—gxoengbk”

“Zjyy,hNhqnqhosc,hcx hlgxz,”hYjrnghpunqhpyxzychugqh gznyyngbyckh“N
fug’o!hugqhpxhoejsj’phgxhejymhaxshnok”

“I ohzechfug’ohcx ?hNht pohxzghNhfug’ohtuljhnohx okhNgqnaajsjgfj,
ngfumufnoc—Nhzxg’ohuqtno;hp sjychno’phgxohpntmychyudngjpp?”

“GxgjhxahoexpjhoengbpkhN’rjhosnjq,hugqhNhpjjhNhfughqxhgxoengb,”hpunq
Yjrngk

EjheuqheusqychbsupmjqhzeuohenphisxoejshzuphpucngbkhYxxlngbhoxzusqphoej
myx behyugqhufsxpphoejhsnrjs,hejhtuqjhx ohpxtjoengbhiyufl,hi ohejhfx yq
gxohqnpongb npehzejoejshnohzuphuhexspjhxshoejhiunynaahxghexspjiuflk

“Zechnphnohcx hfughqxhgxoengb?hCx htuqjhughuoojtmohugqhqnqg’ohp ffjjq,
uphcx hoengl,hugqhcx hbnrjhngkhExzhfughcx heurjhpxhynooyj
pjya-sjpmjfo?”

“Pjya-sjpmjfo!”hpunqhYjrng,hpo gbhoxhoejhw nflhichenphisxoejs’phzxsqp;
“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqkhNahoejc’qhoxyqhtjhuohfxyyjbjhoeuohxoejshmjxmyj
 gqjspoxxqhoejhngojbsuyhfuyf y p,hugqhNhqnqg’o,hoejghmsnqjhzx yqheurj
fxtjhngkhI ohnghoenphfupjhxgjhzugophanspohoxhijhfxgrngfjqhoeuohxgjheup
fjsounghw uynanfuonxgphaxshoenphpxsohxahi pngjpp,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoeuo
uyyhoenphi pngjpphnphxahbsjuohntmxsougfjk”

“Zeuo!hqxhcx htjughoxhpuchno’phgxohxahntmxsougfj?”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hpo gbhoxhoejhw nflhoxxhuohenphisxoejs’phfxgpnqjsngb
ugcoengbhxahgxhntmxsougfjhoeuohngojsjpojqhent,hugqhponyyhtxsjhuohenp
xirnx pychmucngbhynooyjhuoojgonxghoxhzeuohejhzuphpucngbk

“Nhqxg’ohoenglhnohntmxsougo;hnohqxjphgxohouljhexyqhxahtj,hNhfug’ohejym
no,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,htulngbhx ohoeuohzeuohejhpuzhzuphoejhiunynaa,hugq
oeuohoejhiunynaahpjjtjqhoxhijhyjoongbhoejhmjupugophbxhxaahoejhmyx bejq
yugqkhOejchzjsjho sgngbhoejhmyx behxrjskh“Fughoejcheurjhangnpejq
myx bengb?”hejhzxgqjsjqk

“Fxtj,hsjuyychoex be,”hpunqhoejhjyqjshisxoejs,hznoehuhasxzghxghenp
eugqpxtj,hfyjrjshaufj,h“oejsj’phuhyntnohoxhjrjscoengbkhNo’phrjschzjyy
oxhijhxsnbnguyhugqhbjg ngj,hugqhoxhqnpynljhjrjscoengbhfxgrjgonxguy—N
lgxzhuyyhuix ohoeuo;hi ohsjuyyc,hzeuohcx ’sjhpucngbhjnoejsheuphgx
tjugngb,hxshnoheuphuhrjschzsxgbhtjugngbkhExzhfughcx hoenglhnohuhtuoojs
xahgxhntmxsougfjhzejoejshoejhmjupugo,hzexthcx hyxrjhuphcx huppjsokkkk”

“Nhgjrjshqnqhuppjsohno,”hoex beohLxgpougonghYjrngk

“kkkqnjphznoex ohejym?hOejhnbgxsugohmjupugo-zxtjghpousrjhoejhfenyqsjg,
ugqhoejhmjxmyjhpoubguojhnghquslgjpp,hugqhusjhejymyjpphnghoejheugqphxa
jrjschrnyyubjhfyjsl,hzenyjhcx heurjhuohcx shqnpmxpuyhuhtjugphxahejymngb
oejt,hugqhqxg’ohejymhoejthijfu pjhoxhcx shtngqhno’phxahgxhntmxsougfjk”

UgqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehm ohijaxsjhenthoejhuyojsguonrj:hjnoejshcx husjhpx
 gqjrjyxmjqhoeuohcx hfug’ohpjjhuyyhoeuohcx hfughqx,hxshcx hzxg’o
pufsnanfjhcx shjupj,hcx shrugnoc,hxshzeuojrjshnohnp,hoxhqxhnok

LxgpougonghYjrnghajyohoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhfx spjhxmjghoxhenthi ohox
p itno,hxshoxhfxgajpphoxhuhyuflhxahdjuyhaxshoejhm iynfhbxxqkhUgqhoenp
txsonanjqhenthugqhe sohenphajjyngbpk

“No’phixoe,”hejhpunqhsjpxy ojyc:h“Nhqxg’ohpjjhoeuohnohzuphmxppniyjkkkk”

“Zeuo!hzuphnohntmxppniyj,hnahoejhtxgjchzjsjhmsxmjsychyunqhx o,hox
msxrnqjhtjqnfuyhunq?”

“Ntmxppniyj,huphnohpjjtphoxhtjkkkkhAxshoejhoesjjhoex pugqhpw usjhtnyjp
xahx shqnposnfo,hzeuohznoehx shoeuzp,hugqhoejhpoxstp,hugqhoejhzxslhng
oejhanjyqp,hNhqxg’ohpjjhexzhnohnphmxppniyjhoxhmsxrnqjhtjqnfuyhunqhuyy
xrjskhUgqhijpnqjp,hNhqxg’ohijynjrjhnghtjqnfngjk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hoeuo’ph gaunshkkkhNhfughw xojhoxhcx hoex pugqphxa
ngpougfjpkkkkhI ohoejhpfexxyp,hugczuck”

“Zecheurjhpfexxyp?”

“Zeuohqxhcx htjug?hFughoejsjhijhozxhxmngnxgphxahoejhuqrugoubjhxa
jq fuonxg?hNahno’phuhbxxqhoengbhaxshcx ,hno’phuhbxxqhoengbhaxs
jrjscxgjk”

LxgpougonghYjrnghajyohentpjyahtxsuyychmnggjqhubungpohuhzuyy,hugqhpxhej
bxohexo,hugqh gfxgpfnx pychiy sojqhx ohoejhfenjahfu pjhxahenp
ngqnaajsjgfjhoxhm iynfhi pngjppk

“Mjseumphnohtuchuyyhijhrjschbxxq;hi ohzechpex yqhNhzxsschtcpjyahuix o
jpouiynpengbhqnpmjgpusnjphzenfehNhpeuyyhgjrjshtuljh pjhxa,hugqhpfexxyp
oxhzenfehNhpeuyyhgjrjshpjgqhtchfenyqsjg,hoxhzenfehjrjghoejhmjupugop
qxg’ohzugohoxhpjgqhoejnshfenyqsjg,hugqhoxhzenfehN’rjhgxhrjschansthaunoe
oeuohoejchx beohoxhpjgqhoejt?”hpunqhejk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphaxshuhtng ojhp smsnpjqhuohoenph gjvmjfojqhrnjzhxa
oejhp i.jfo;hi ohejhmsxtmoychtuqjhuhgjzhmyughxahuoouflkhEjhzuphpnyjgo
axshuhynooyj,hqsjzhx ohuhexxl,hoesjzhnohnghubung,hugqho sgjqhoxhenp
isxoejshptnyngbk

“Fxtj,hgxzkkkkhNghoejhanspohmyufj,hoejhqnpmjgpuschnphgjjqjqkhZj
x spjyrjphpjgohaxshoejhqnposnfohqxfoxshaxshUbuajuhTneuyxrguk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hi ohNhaugfchejshzsnpohznyyhgjrjshijhposunbeohubungk”

“OeuohsjtungphoxhijhmsxrjqkkkkhGjvo,hoejhmjupugohzexhfughsjuqhugqhzsnoj
nphuphuhzxsltughxahtxsjh pjhugqhruy jhoxhcx k”

“Gx,hcx hfughuplhugcxgjhcx hynlj,”hLxgpougonghYjrnghugpzjsjqhznoe
qjfnpnxg,h“oejhtughoeuohfughsjuqhugqhzsnojhnpht fehngajsnxshuphu
zxsltugkhUgqhtjgqngbhoejhenbesxuqphnphughntmxppninynoc;hugqhuphpxxghup
oejchm oh mhisnqbjphoejc’sjhpoxyjgk”

“Ponyy,hoeuo’phgxohoejhmxngo,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hasxzgngbkhEj
qnpynljqhfxgosuqnfonxg,hugqhponyyhtxsj,husb tjgophoeuohzjsjhfxgong uyyc
plnmmngbhasxthxgjhoengbhoxhugxoejs,hngosxq fngbhgjzhugqhqnpfxggjfojq
mxngop,hpxhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhlgxzngbhoxhzenfehoxhsjmyckh“Qxhcx huqtno
oeuohjq fuonxghnphuhijgjanohaxshoejhmjxmyj?”

“Cjp,hNhuqtnohno,”hpunqhYjrnghznoex ohoenglngb,hugqhejhzuphfxgpfnx p
nttjqnuojychoeuohejheuqhpunqhzeuohejhqnqhgxohoenglkhEjhajyohoeuohnahej
uqtnoojqhoeuo,hnohzx yqhijhmsxrjqhoeuohejheuqhijjghouylngbhtjugngbyjpp
s iinpekhExzhnohzx yqhijhmsxrjqhejhfx yqhgxohojyy,hi ohejhlgjzhoeuo
oenphzx yqhngjrnouiychijhyxbnfuyychmsxrjqhoxhent,hugqhejhuzunojqhoej
msxxapk

Oejhusb tjgoho sgjqhx ohoxhijhaushpntmyjshoeughejheuqhjvmjfojqk

“Nahcx huqtnohoeuohnohnphuhijgjano,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,h“oejg,hup
ughexgjpohtug,hcx hfuggxohejymhfusngbhuix ohnohugqhpctmuoendngbhznoe
oejhtxrjtjgo,hugqhpxhznpengbhoxhzxslhaxshnok”

“I ohNhponyyhqxhgxohuqtnohoenphtxrjtjgohoxhijh. po,”hpunqhLxgpougong
Yjrng,hsjqqjgngbhuhynooyjk

“Zeuo!hI ohcx hpunqh. pohgxzkkkk”

“Oeuo’phoxhpuc,hNhqxg’ohuqtnohno’phijngbhjnoejshbxxqhxshmxppniyjk”

“Oeuohcx hfug’ohojyyhznoex ohtulngbhoejhosnuyk”

“Zjyy,hp mmxpngbhoeuo’phpx,”hpunqhYjrng,hoex behejhqnqhgxohp mmxpjhpx
uohuyy,h“p mmxpngbhoeuohnphpx,hponyyhNhqxg’ohpjj,huyyhoejhputj,hzeuo
N’thoxhzxsschtcpjyahuix ohnohaxsk”

“Exzhpx?”

“Gx;hpngfjhzjhusjhouylngb,hjvmyunghnohoxhtjhasxthoejhmenyxpxmenfuy
mxngohxahrnjz,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Nhfug’ohpjjhzejsjhmenyxpxmechfxtjphng,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hnghu
oxgj,hYjrnghaugfnjq,huphoex behejhqnqhgxohuqtnohenphisxoejs’phsnbeohox
ouylhuix ohmenyxpxmeckhUgqhoeuohnssnouojqhYjrngk

“N’yyhojyyhcx ,hoejg,”hejhpunqhznoehejuo,h“Nhntubngjhoejhtungpmsngbhxa
uyyhx shufonxgphnp,huaojshuyy,hpjya-ngojsjpokhGxzhnghoejhyxfuy
ngpono onxgphN,huphuhgxiyjtug,hpjjhgxoengbhoeuohfx yqhfxgq fjhoxhtc
msxpmjsnoc,hugqhoejhsxuqphusjhgxohijoojshugqhfx yqhgxohijhijoojs;htc
exspjphfusschtjhzjyyhjgx behxrjshiuqhxgjpkhQxfoxsphugqhqnpmjgpusnjphusj
gxh pjhoxhtjkhUghusinosuoxshxahqnpm ojphnphgxh pjhoxhtjkhNhgjrjshummjuy
oxhent,hugqhgjrjshpeuyyhummjuyhoxhentkhOejhpfexxyphusjhgxhbxxqhoxhtj,
i ohmxpnonrjycheusta y,huphNhoxyqhcx khAxshtjhoejhqnposnfohngpono onxgp
pntmychtjughoejhynuinynochoxhmuchax smjgfjheuyamjggchaxshjrjschoesjj
ufsjp,hoxhqsnrjhngoxhoejhoxzg,hpyjjmhznoehi bp,hugqhynpojghoxhuyyhpxsop
xahnqnxfchugqhyxuoepxtjgjpp,hugqhpjya-ngojsjpohxaajsphtjhgx
ngq fjtjgok”

“Jvf pjhtj,”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehngojsmxpjqhznoehuhptnyj,h“pjya-ngojsjpo
qnqhgxohngq fjh phoxhzxslhaxshoejhjtugfnmuonxghxahoejhpjsap,hi ohzjhqnq
zxslhaxshnok”

“Gx!”hLxgpougonghYjrnghisxljhnghznoehponyyhbsjuojshejuo;h“oej
jtugfnmuonxghxahoejhpjsaphzuphuhqnaajsjgohtuoojskhOejsjhpjya-ngojsjpo
qnqhfxtjhngkhXgjhyxgbjqhoxhoesxzhxaahoeuohcxljhoeuohfs pejqh p,huyy
qjfjgohmjxmyjhutxgbh pkhI ohoxhijhuhoxzghfx gfnyxshugqhqnpf pphexzhtugc
q potjghusjhgjjqjq,hugqhexzhfentgjcphpeuyyhijhfxgpos fojqhnghoejhoxzg
nghzenfehNhqxg’ohynrj—oxhpjsrjhxghuh. schugqhoschuhmjupugohzex’phpoxyjg
uhaynofehxahiufxg,hugqhynpojghaxshpnvhex sphuohuhposjofehoxhuyyhpxsop
xah.uiijshasxthoejhfx gpjyhaxshoejhqjajgpjhugqhoejhmsxpjf onxg,hugqhoej
msjpnqjgohfsxpp-jvutngngbhtchxyqheuya-znoojqhUynxpelu,h‘Qxhcx huqtno,
msnpxgjshnghoejhqxfl,hoejhaufohxahoejhsjtxruyhxahoejhiufxg?’h‘Je?’”

LxgpougonghYjrngheuqhzustjqhoxhenphp i.jfo,hugqhijbughtntnflngbhoej
msjpnqjgohugqhoejheuya-znoojqhUynxpelu:hnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohnohzup
uyyhoxhoejhmxngok

I ohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehpes bbjqhenphpex yqjspk

“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx htjughoxhpuc,hoejg?”

“Nhpntmychtjughoxhpuchoeuohoexpjhsnbeophoeuohox fehtjhkkkhtchngojsjpo,
Nhpeuyyhuyzucphqjajgqhoxhoejhijpohxahtchuinynoc;hoeuohzejghoejchtuqj
sunqphxgh phpo qjgop,hugqhoejhmxynfjhsjuqhx shyjoojsp,hNhzuphsjuqchox
qjajgqhoexpjhsnbeophoxhoejh otxpo,hoxhqjajgqhtchsnbeophoxhjq fuonxghugq
asjjqxtkhNhfugh gqjspougqhfxtm ypxschtnynouschpjsrnfj,hzenfehuaajfophtc
fenyqsjg,htchisxoejsp,hugqhtcpjya,hNhuthsjuqchoxhqjynijsuojhxghzeuo
fxgfjsgphtj;hi ohqjynijsuongbhxghexzhoxhpmjgqhaxsochoex pugqhsx iyjphxa
qnposnfohfx gfnyhtxgjc,hxsh. qbngbhoejheuya-znoojqhUynxpelu—Nhqxg’o
 gqjspougq,hugqhNhfug’ohqxhnok”

LxgpougonghYjrnghpmxljhuphoex behoejhayxxqbuojphxahenphpmjjfeheuqhi spo
xmjgkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehptnyjqk

“I ohoxtxssxzhno’yyhijhcx sho sghoxhijhosnjq;hzx yqhnoheurjhp nojqhcx s
oupojphijoojshoxhijhosnjqhnghoejhxyqhfsntnguyhosni guy?”

“N’thgxohbxngbhoxhijhosnjqkhNhpeug’oht sqjshugcixqc,hugqhN’rjhgxhgjjq
xahnokhZjyy,hNhojyyhcx hzeuo,”hejhzjgohxg,haycngbhxaahubunghoxhu
p i.jfohw nojhijpnqjhoejhmxngo,h“x shqnposnfohpjya-bxrjsgtjgohugqhuyy
oejhsjpohxahno—no’ph. pohynljhoejhinsfehisugfejphzjhponflhnghoejhbsx gq
xghOsngnochQuc,haxshngpougfj,hoxhyxxlhynljhuhfxmpjhzenfeheuphbsxzgh m
xahnopjyahnghJ sxmj,hugqhNhfug’ohb pehxrjshoejpjhinsfehisugfejphugq
ijynjrjhnghoejtk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehtjsjychpes bbjqhenphpex yqjsp,huphoex behoxhjvmsjpp
enphzxgqjshexzhoejhinsfehisugfejpheuqhfxtjhngoxhoejnshusb tjgohuohoeuo
mxngo,hoex behejhqnqhsjuyych gqjspougqhuohxgfjhzeuohenphisxoejshtjugok

“Jvf pjhtj,hi ohcx hlgxzhxgjhsjuyychfug’ohusb jhnghoeuohzuc,”hej
xipjsrjqk

I ohLxgpougonghYjrnghzugojqhoxh. ponachentpjyahaxshoejhaunyngb,hxa
zenfehejhzuphfxgpfnx p,hxahyuflhxahdjuyhaxshoejhm iynfhzjyausj,hugqhej
zjgohxgk

“Nhntubngj,”hejhpunq,h“oeuohgxhpxsohxahufonrnochnphynljychoxhijhyupongb
nahnohnphgxohax gqjqhxghpjya-ngojsjpo,hoeuo’phuh gnrjspuyhmsngfnmyj,hu
menyxpxmenfuyhmsngfnmyj,”hejhpunq,hsjmjuongbhoejhzxsqh“menyxpxmenfuy”
znoehqjojstnguonxg,huphoex behznpengbhoxhpexzhoeuohejheuqhupht fehsnbeo
uphugcxgjhjypjhoxhouylhxahmenyxpxmeck

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehptnyjqkh“Ejhoxxheuphuhmenyxpxmechxahenphxzghuohoej
pjsrnfjhxahenphguo suyhojgqjgfnjp,”hejhoex beok

“Fxtj,hcx ’qhijoojshyjohmenyxpxmechuyxgj,”hejhpunqkh“Oejhfenjahmsxiyjt
xahoejhmenyxpxmechxahuyyhubjphfxgpnpoph. pohnghangqngbhoej
ngqnpmjgpuiyjhfxggjfonxghzenfehjvnpophijozjjghngqnrnq uyhugqhpxfnuy
ngojsjpopkhI ohoeuo’phgxohoxhoejhmxngo;hzeuohnphoxhoejhmxngohnphu
fxssjfonxghNht pohtuljhnghcx shfxtmusnpxgkhOejhinsfejphusjhgxohpntmyc
po flhng,hi ohpxtjhusjhpxzghugqhpxtjhusjhmyugojq,hugqhxgjht pohqjuy
fusja yychznoehoejtkhNo’phxgychoexpjhmjxmyjphoeuoheurjhughngo nonrj
pjgpjhxahzeuo’phxahntmxsougfjhugqhpnbgnanfugfjhnghoejnshngpono onxgp,
ugqhlgxzhexzhoxhruy jhoejt,hoeuoheurjhuha o sjhijaxsjhoejt—no’phxgyc
oexpjhmjxmyjphoeuohxgjhfughos ychfuyyhenpoxsnfuyk”

UgqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehfussnjqhoejhp i.jfohngoxhoejhsjbnxgphxa
menyxpxmenfuyhenpoxschzejsjhLxgpougonghYjrnghfx yqhgxohaxyyxzhent,hugq
pexzjqhenthuyyhoejhngfxssjfogjpphxahenphrnjzk

“Uphaxshcx shqnpynljhxahno,hjvf pjhtchpucngbhpx,hoeuo’phpntmychx s
S ppnughpyxoehugqhxyqhpjsa-xzgjs’phzucp,hugqhN’thfxgrngfjqhoeuohnghcx 
no’phuhojtmxsuschjssxshugqhznyyhmuppk”

LxgpougonghzuphpnyjgokhEjhajyohentpjyahrugw npejqhxghuyyhpnqjp,hi ohej
ajyohuohoejhputjhontjhoeuohzeuohejhzugojqhoxhpuchzuph gngojyynbniyjhox
enphisxoejskhXgychejhfx yqhgxohtuljh mhenphtngqhzejoejshnohzup
 gngojyynbniyjhijfu pjhejhzuphgxohfumuiyjhxahjvmsjppngbhenphtjugngb
fyjusyc,hxshijfu pjhenphisxoejshzx yqhgxohxshfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhentk
I ohejhqnqhgxohm sp jhoejhpmjf yuonxg,hugqhznoex ohsjmycngb,hejhajyyhox
t pngbhxghuhw nojhqnaajsjgohugqhmjspxguyhtuoojsk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzx gqh mhoejhyupohyngj,h gonjqhoejhexspj,hugqhoejc
qsxrjhxaak


Feumojsh4

OejhmjspxguyhtuoojshoeuohuipxsijqhYjrnghq sngbhenphfxgrjspuonxghznoe
enphisxoejshzuphoenpkhXgfjhnghuhmsjrnx phcjushejheuqhbxgjhoxhyxxlhuo
oejhtxzngb,hugqhijngbhtuqjhrjschugbschichoejhiunynaahejheuqhsjfx spjhox
enphaurxsnojhtjugphaxshsjbungngbhenphojtmjs,—ejhoxxlhuhpfcoejhasxthu
mjupugohugqhijbughtxzngbk

Ejhynljqhoejhzxslhpxht fehoeuohejheuqhpjrjsuyhontjphosnjqhenpheugqhuo
txzngbhpngfjkhEjheuqhf ohoejhzexyjhxahoejhtjuqxzhnghasxgohxahenphex pj,
ugqhoenphcjushjrjshpngfjhoejhjusychpmsngbhejheuqhfejsnpejqhuhmyughaxs
txzngbhaxshzexyjhqucphoxbjoejshznoehoejhmjupugopkhJrjshpngfjhenp
isxoejs’phussnruy,hejheuqhijjghnghqx iohzejoejshoxhtxzhxshgxokhEjhzup
yxuoehoxhyjurjhenphisxoejshuyxgjhuyyhquchyxgb,hugqhejhzuphuasunqhenp
isxoejshzx yqhyu behuohenthuix ohnokhI ohuphejhqsxrjhngoxhoejhtjuqxz,
ugqhsjfuyyjqhoejhpjgpuonxgphxahtxzngb,hejhfutjhgjushqjfnqngbhoeuohej
zx yqhbxhtxzngbkhUaojshoejhnssnouongbhqnpf ppnxghznoehenphisxoejs,hej
mxgqjsjqhxrjshoenphngojgonxghubungk

“Nht poheurjhmecpnfuyhjvjsfnpj,hxshtchojtmjs’yyhfjsoungychijhs ngjq,”
ejhoex beo,hugqhejhqjojstngjqhejhzx yqhbxhtxzngb,hexzjrjshuzlzusqhej
tnbeohajjyhuix ohnohznoehenphisxoejshxshoejhmjupugopk

OxzusqphjrjgngbhLxgpougonghYjrnghzjgohoxhenphfx gongbhex pj,hburj
qnsjfonxgphuphoxhoejhzxslhoxhijhqxgj,hugqhpjgohuix ohoejhrnyyubjhox
p ttxghoejhtxzjsphaxshoejhtxssxz,hoxhf ohoejheuchnghLuyngxrhtjuqxz,hoej
yusbjpohugqhijpohxahenphbsupphyugqpk

“Ugqhpjgqhtchpfcoej,hmyjupj,hoxhOno,haxshenthoxhpjohno,hugqhisngbhno
sx gqhoxtxssxzkhNhpeuyyhtucijhqxhpxtjhtxzngbhtcpjyahoxx,”hejhpunq,
oscngbhgxohoxhijhjtiussuppjqk

Oejhiunynaahptnyjqhugqhpunq:h“Cjp,hpnsk”

UohojuhoejhputjhjrjgngbhYjrnghpunqhoxhenphisxoejs:

“NhaugfchoejhangjhzjuoejshznyyhyupokhOxtxssxzhNhpeuyyhpousohtxzngbk”

“N’thpxhaxgqhxahoeuohaxsthxahanjyqhyuixs,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“N’thuza yychaxgqhxahnokhNhpxtjontjphtxzhtcpjyahznoehoejhmjupugop,hugq
oxtxssxzhNhzugohoxhoschtxzngbhoejhzexyjhquck”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehynaojqhenphejuq,hugqhyxxljqhznoehngojsjpohuohenp
isxoejsk

“Exzhqxhcx htjug?h. pohynljhxgjhxahoejhmjupugop,huyyhquchyxgb?”

“Cjp,hno’phrjschmyjupugo,”hpunqhYjrngk

“No’phpmyjgqnqhuphjvjsfnpj,hxgychcx ’yyheusqychijhuiyjhoxhpougqhno,”
punqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hznoex ohuhpeuqjhxahnsxgck

“N’rjhosnjqhnokhNo’pheusqhzxslhuohanspo,hi ohcx hbjohngoxhnokhNhqusj
puchNhpeuyyhtugubjhoxhljjmhnoh mkkkk”

“Sjuyyc!hzeuohughnqju!hI ohojyyhtj,hexzhqxhoejhmjupugophyxxlhuohno?hN
p mmxpjhoejchyu behnghoejnshpyjjrjphuohoejnshtupojs’phijngbhp fehu
w jjshanpe?”

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohoenglhpx;hi ohno’phpxhqjynbeoa y,hugqhuohoejhputjhontj
p feheusqhzxsl,hoeuohxgjheuphgxhontjhoxhoenglhuix ohnok”

“I ohexzhznyyhcx hqxhuix ohqngngbhznoehoejt?hOxhpjgqhcx huhixooyjhxa
Yuanoojhugqhsxupoho sljchx ohoejsjhzx yqhijhuhynooyjhuzlzusqk”

“Gx,hN’yyhpntmychfxtjhextjhuohoejhontjhxahoejnshgxxgquchsjpok”

GjvohtxsgngbhLxgpougonghYjrnghbxoh mhjusynjshoeugh p uy,hi ohejhzup
qjoungjqhbnrngbhqnsjfonxgphxghoejhaust,hugqhzejghejhsjufejqhoejhtxzngb
bsupphoejhtxzjsphzjsjhuysjuqchuohoejnshpjfxgqhsxzk

Asxthoejh myugqphejhfx yqhbjohuhrnjzhxahoejhpeuqjqhf ohmusohxahoej
tjuqxzhijyxz,hznoehnophbsucnpehsnqbjphxahf ohbsupp,hugqhoejhiyuflhejump
xahfxuop,houljghxaahichoejhtxzjsphuohoejhmyufjhasxthzenfehoejcheuq
pousojqhf oongbk

Bsuq uyyc,huphejhsxqjhoxzusqphoejhtjuqxz,hoejhmjupugophfutjhngoxhpnbeo,
pxtjhnghfxuop,hpxtjhnghoejnshpensophtxzngb,hxgjhijengqhugxoejshnghu
yxgbhposngb,hpzngbngbhoejnshpfcoejphqnaajsjgoyckhEjhfx gojqhaxsoc-ozx
xahoejtk

Oejchzjsjhtxzngbhpyxzychxrjshoejh gjrjg,hyxz-ycngbhmusophxahoejhtjuqxz,
zejsjhoejsjheuqhijjghughxyqhqutkhYjrnghsjfxbgndjqhpxtjhxahenphxzghtjgk
EjsjhzuphxyqhCjstnyhnghuhrjschyxgbhzenojhptxfl,hijgqngbhaxszusqhox
pzngbhuhpfcoej;hoejsjhzuphuhcx gbhajyyxz,hRuplu,hzexheuqhijjghu
fxufetughxahYjrng’p,houlngbhjrjschsxzhznoehuhznqjhpzjjmkhEjsj,hoxx,hzup
Ono,hYjrng’phmsjfjmoxshnghoejhusohxahtxzngb,huhoenghynooyjhmjupugokhEj
zuphnghasxgohxahuyy,hugqhf ohenphznqjhsxzhznoex ohijgqngb,huphoex be
myucngbhznoehoejhpfcoejk

Yjrnghbxohxaahenphtusj,hugqhaupojgngbhejsh mhichoejhsxuqpnqjhzjgohox
tjjohOno,hzexhoxxlhuhpjfxgqhpfcoejhx ohxahuhi pehugqhburjhnohoxhentk

“No’phsjuqc,hpns;hno’phynljhuhsudxs,hf ophxahnopjya,”hpunqhOno,houlngb
xaahenphfumhznoehuhptnyjhugqhbnrngbhenthoejhpfcoejk

Yjrnghoxxlhoejhpfcoej,hugqhijbughoscngbhnokhUphoejchangnpejqhoejns
sxzp,hoejhtxzjsp,hexohugqhbxxq-e txsjq,hfutjhx ohngoxhoejhsxuqhxgj
uaojshugxoejs,hugq,hyu bengbhuhynooyj,hbsjjojqhoejhtupojskhOejchuyy
pousjqhuohent,hi ohgxhxgjhtuqjhugchsjtusl,honyyhuhouyyhxyqhtug,hznoehu
zsnglyjq,hijusqyjpphaufj,hzjusngbhuhpexsohpejjmplngh.ufljo,hfutjhx o
ngoxhoejhsxuqhugqhuffxpojqhentk

“Yxxl’jjhgxz,htupojs,hxgfjhouljhexyqhxahoejhsxmjhoejsj’phgxhyjoongbhno
bx!”hejhpunq,hugqhYjrnghejusqhptxoejsjqhyu beojshutxgbhoejhtxzjspk

“N’yyhoschgxohoxhyjohnohbx,”hejhpunq,houlngbhenphpougqhijengqhOno,hugq
zunongbhaxshoejhontjhoxhijbngk

“Tngq’jj,”hsjmjuojqhoejhxyqhtugk

Onohtuqjhsxxt,hugqhYjrnghpousojqhijengqhentkhOejhbsupphzuphpexsohfyxpj
oxhoejhsxuq,hugqhYjrng,hzexheuqhgxohqxgjhugchtxzngbhaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,
ugqhzuphqnpfxgfjsojqhichoejhjcjphaupojgjqh mxghent,hf ohiuqychaxshoej
anspohtxtjgop,hoex behejhpz gbhenphpfcoejhrnbxsx pyckhIjengqhenthej
ejusqhrxnfjp:

“No’phgxohpjohsnbeo;heugqyj’phoxxhenbe;hpjjhexzhejheuphoxhpoxxmhoxhno,”
punqhxgjk

“Msjpphtxsjhxghoejhejjy,”hpunqhugxoejsk

“Gjrjshtngq,hej’yyhbjohxghuyyhsnbeo,”hoejhxyqhtughsjp tjqk

“Ej’phtuqjhuhpousokkkkhCx hpzngbhnohoxxhznqj,hcx ’yyhonsjhcx spjya
x okkkkhOejhtupojs,hp sj,hqxjphenphijpohaxshentpjya!hI ohpjjhoejhbsupp
tnppjqhx o!hAxshp fehzxslh phajyyxzphzx yqhfuofehno!”

Oejhbsupphijfutjhpxaojs,hugqhYjrng,hynpojgngbhznoex ohugpzjsngb,
axyyxzjqhOno,hoscngbhoxhqxhoejhijpohejhfx yqkhOejchtxrjqhuhe gqsjq
mufjpkhOnohljmohtxrngbhxg,hznoex ohpoxmmngb,hgxohpexzngbhoejhpynbeojpo
zjusngjpp,hi ohYjrnghzuphuysjuqchijbnggngbhoxhijhuasunqhejhzx yqhgxohij
uiyjhoxhljjmhnoh m:hejhzuphpxhonsjqk

Ejhajyohuphejhpz gbhenphpfcoejhoeuohejhzuphuohoejhrjschjgqhxahenp
posjgboe,hugqhzuphtulngbh mhenphtngqhoxhuplhOnohoxhpoxmkhI ohuohoeuo
rjschtxtjgohOnohpoxmmjqhxahenphxzghuffxsq,hugqhpoxxmngbhqxzghmnfljqh m
pxtjhbsupp,hs iijqhenphpfcoej,hugqhijbughzejoongbhnokhYjrng
posunbeojgjqhentpjya,hugqhqsuzngbhuhqjjmhisjuoehyxxljqhsx gqkhIjengq
enthfutjhuhmjupugo,hugqhejhoxxhzuphjrnqjgoychonsjq,haxshejhpoxmmjqhuo
xgfjhznoex ohzunongbhoxhtxzh mhoxhYjrng,hugqhijbughzejoongbhenphpfcoejk
OnohpeusmjgjqhenphpfcoejhugqhYjrng’p,hugqhoejchzjgohxgkhOejhgjvohontj
nohzuph. pohoejhputjkhOnohtxrjqhxghznoehpzjjmhuaojshpzjjmhxahenp
pfcoej,hgxohpoxmmngbhgxshpexzngbhpnbgphxahzjusngjppkhYjrnghaxyyxzjq
ent,hoscngbhgxohoxhbjohyjaohijengq,hugqhejhax gqhnoheusqjshugqheusqjs:
oejhtxtjgohfutjhzejghejhajyohejheuqhgxhposjgboehyjao,hi ohuohoeuohrjsc
txtjgohOnohpoxmmjqhugqhzejoojqhoejhpfcoejpk

PxhoejchtxzjqhoejhanspohsxzkhUgqhoenphyxgbhsxzhpjjtjqhmusonf yusycheusq
zxslhoxhYjrng;hi ohzejghoejhjgqhzuphsjufejqhugqhOno,hpex yqjsngbhenp
pfcoej,hijbughznoehqjynijsuojhposnqjhsjo sgngbhxghoejhosuflphyjaohic
enphejjyphnghoejhf ohbsupp,hugqhYjrnghzuyljqhiuflhnghoejhputjhzuchxrjs
oejhpmufjhejheuqhf o,hnghpmnojhxahoejhpzjuohoeuohsughnghposjutphxrjs
enphaufjhugqhajyyhnghqsxmphqxzghenphgxpj,hugqhqsjgfejqhenphiuflhup
oex behejheuqhijjghpxuljqhnghzuojs,hejhajyohrjscheummckhZeuohqjynbeojq
enthmusonf yusychzuphoeuohgxzhejhlgjzhejhzx yqhijhuiyjhoxhexyqhx ok

Enphmyjup sjhzuphxgychqnpo sijqhichenphsxzhgxohijngbhzjyyhf okh“Nhznyy
pzngbhyjpphznoehtchusthugqhtxsjhznoehtchzexyjhixqc,”hejhoex beo,
fxtmusngbhOno’phsxz,hzenfehyxxljqhuphnahnoheuqhijjghf ohznoehuhyngj,
znoehenphxzgh gjrjgychugqhnssjb yusychycngbhbsuppk

Oejhanspohsxz,huphYjrnghgxonfjq,hOnoheuqhtxzjqhpmjfnuyychw nflyc,
msxiuiychznpengbhoxhm ohenphtupojshoxhoejhojpo,hugqhoejhsxzheummjgjqhox
ijhuhyxgbhxgjkhOejhgjvohsxzphzjsjhjupnjs,hi ohponyyhYjrngheuqhoxhposung
jrjschgjsrjhgxohoxhqsxmhijengqhoejhmjupugopk

Ejhoex beohxahgxoengb,hznpejqhaxshgxoengb,hi ohgxohoxhijhyjaohijengq
oejhmjupugop,hugqhoxhqxhenphzxslhuphzjyyhuphmxppniyjkhEjhejusqhgxoengb
i ohoejhpznpehxahpfcoejp,hugqhpuzhijaxsjhenthOno’ph msnbeohanb sj
txzngbhuzuc,hoejhfsjpfjgo-peumjqhf srjhxahoejhf ohbsupp,hoejhbsupphugq
ayxzjshejuqphpyxzychugqhsecoetnfuyychauyyngbhijaxsjhoejhiyuqjhxahenp
pfcoej,hugqhuejuqhxahenthoejhjgqhxahoejhsxz,hzejsjhzx yqhfxtjhoejhsjpok

P qqjgyc,hnghoejhtnqpohxahenphoxny,hznoex oh gqjspougqngbhzeuohnohzup
xshzejgfjhnohfutj,hejhajyohuhmyjupugohpjgpuonxghxahfenyyhxghenphexo,
txnpohpex yqjspkhEjhbyugfjqhuohoejhplchnghoejhngojsruyhaxshzejoongbhoej
pfcoejpkhUhejurc,hyxzjsngbhpoxsthfyx qheuqhiyxzgh m,hugqhinbhsungqsxmp
zjsjhauyyngbkhPxtjhxahoejhmjupugophzjgohoxhoejnshfxuophugqhm ohoejthxg;
xoejsp—. pohynljhYjrnghentpjya—tjsjychpes bbjqhoejnshpex yqjsp,
jg.xcngbhoejhmyjupugohfxxygjpphxahnok

Ugxoejshsxz,hugqhcjohugxoejshsxz,haxyyxzjq—yxgbhsxzphugqhpexsohsxzp,
znoehbxxqhbsupphugqhznoehmxxshbsuppkhYjrnghyxpohuyyhpjgpjhxahontj,hugq
fx yqhgxoheurjhoxyqhzejoejshnohzuphyuojhxshjusychgxzkhUhfeugbjhijbughox
fxtjhxrjshenphzxsl,hzenfehburjhenthnttjgpjhpuonpaufonxgkhNghoejhtnqpo
xahenphoxnyhoejsjhzjsjhtxtjgophq sngbhzenfehejhaxsbxohzeuohejhzup
qxngb,hugqhnohfutjhuyyhjupchoxhent,hugqhuohoexpjhputjhtxtjgophenphsxz
zuphuytxpohuphptxxoehugqhzjyyhf ohuphOno’pkhI ohpxhpxxghuphej
sjfxyyjfojqhzeuohejhzuphqxngb,hugqhijbughoscngbhoxhqxhijoojs,hejhzuphuo
xgfjhfxgpfnx phxahuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahenphoupl,hugqhoejhsxzhzuphiuqyc
txzgk

Xghangnpengbhcjohugxoejshsxzhejhzx yqheurjhbxgjhiuflhoxhoejhoxmhxahoej
tjuqxzhubunghoxhijbnghoejhgjvo,hi ohOnohpoxmmjq,hugqhbxngbh mhoxhoej
xyqhtughpunqhpxtjoengbhnghuhyxzhrxnfjhoxhentkhOejchixoehyxxljqhuohoej
p gkh“Zeuohusjhoejchouylngbhuix o,hugqhzechqxjpg’ohejhbxhiufl?”hoex beo
Yjrng,hgxohb jppngbhoeuohoejhmjupugopheuqhijjghtxzngbhgxhyjpphoeughax s
ex sphznoex ohpoxmmngb,hugqhnohzuphontjhaxshoejnshy gfek

“Y gfe,hpns,”hpunqhoejhxyqhtugk

“Nphnohsjuyychontj?hOeuo’phsnbeo;hy gfe,hoejgk”

YjrnghburjhenphpfcoejhoxhOno,hugqhoxbjoejshznoehoejhmjupugop,hzexhzjsj
fsxppngbhoejhyxgbhposjofehxahtxzghbsupp,hpynbeoychpmsnglyjqhznoehsung,
oxhbjohoejnshisjuqhasxthoejhejumhxahfxuop,hejhzjgohoxzusqphenphex pjk
Xgychoejghejhp qqjgychuzxljhoxhoejhaufohoeuohejheuqhijjghzsxgbhuix o
oejhzjuoejshugqhoejhsunghzuphqsjgfengbhenpheuck

“Oejheuchznyyhijhpmxnyjq,”hejhpunqk

“Gxohuhinohxahno,hpns;htxzhnghoejhsung,hugqhcx ’yyhsuljhnghangj
zjuoejs!”hpunqhoejhxyqhtugk

Yjrngh gonjqhenphexspjhugqhsxqjhextjhoxhenphfxaajjkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
zuphxgych. pohbjoongbh mkhZejghejheuqhqs glhenphfxaajj,hYjrnghsxqjhiufl
ubunghoxhoejhtxzngbhijaxsjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqheuqhontjhoxhqsjpphugq
fxtjhqxzghoxhoejhqngngb-sxxtk


Feumojsh5

Uaojshy gfehYjrnghzuphgxohnghoejhputjhmyufjhnghoejhposngbhxahtxzjsphup
ijaxsj,hi ohpoxxqhijozjjghoejhxyqhtughzexheuqhuffxpojqhenth.xfxpjyc,
ugqhgxzhngrnojqhenthoxhijhenphgjnbeixs,hugqhuhcx gbhmjupugo,hzexheuq
xgychijjghtussnjqhnghoejhu o tg,hugqhzexhzuphtxzngbhoenphp ttjshaxshoej
anspohontjk

Oejhxyqhtug,hexyqngbhentpjyahjsjfo,htxrjqhnghasxgo,hznoehenphajjo
o sgjqhx o,houlngbhyxgb,hsjb yushposnqjp,hugqhznoehuhmsjfnpjhugq
sjb yushufonxghzenfehpjjtjqhoxhfxpohenthgxhtxsjhjaaxsohoeughpzngbngb
xgj’phustphnghzuylngb,huphoex behnohzjsjhnghmyuc,hejhyunqhqxzghoej
enbe,hjrjghsxzhxahbsuppkhNohzuphuphoex behnohzjsjhgxohejhi ohoejhpeusm
pfcoejhxahnopjyahpznpengbhoesx behoejh. nfchbsuppk

IjengqhYjrnghfutjhoejhyuqhTnpelukhEnphmsjooc,hixcnpehaufj,hznoehuhoznpo
xahasjpehbsupphix gqhsx gqhenpheuns,hzuphuyyhzxslngbhznoehjaaxso;hi o
zejgjrjshugcxgjhyxxljqhuohenthejhptnyjqkhEjhzx yqhfyjusycheurjhqnjq
pxxgjshoeughxzghnohzupheusqhzxslhaxshentk

YjrnghljmohijozjjghoejtkhNghoejhrjschejuohxahoejhquchoejhtxzngbhqnqhgxo
pjjthp feheusqhzxslhoxhentkhOejhmjspmnsuonxghznoehzenfehejhzuphqsjgfejq
fxxyjqhent,hzenyjhoejhp g,hoeuohi sgjqhenphiufl,henphejuq,hugqhenp
ustp,hiusjhoxhoejhjyixz,hburjhuhrnbxshugqhqxbbjqhjgjsbchoxhenphyuixs;
ugqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojghgxzhfutjhoexpjhtxtjgophxah gfxgpfnx pgjpp,hzejg
nohzuphmxppniyjhgxohoxhoenglhzeuohxgjhzuphqxngbkhOejhpfcoejhf ohxa
nopjyakhOejpjhzjsjheummchtxtjgopkhPonyyhtxsjhqjynbeoa yhzjsjhoej
txtjgophzejghoejchsjufejqhoejhposjuthzejsjhoejhsxzphjgqjq,hugqhoejhxyq
tughs iijqhenphpfcoejhznoehoejhzjo,hoenflhbsupp,hsngpjqhnophiyuqjhng
oejhasjpehzuojshxahoejhposjut,hyuqyjqhx ohuhynooyjhnghuhonghqnmmjs,hugq
xaajsjqhYjrnghuhqsnglk

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuchoxhtchextj-isjz,hje?hBxxq,hje?”hpunqhej,hznglngbk

Ugqhos ychYjrngheuqhgjrjshqs glhugchynw xshpxhbxxqhuphoenphzusthzuojs
znoehbsjjghinophayxuongbhnghno,hugqhuhoupojhxahs pohasxthoejhong
qnmmjskhUgqhnttjqnuojychuaojshoenphfutjhoejhqjynfnx p,hpyxzhpu gojs,
znoehenpheugqhxghoejhpfcoej,hq sngbhzenfehejhfx yqhznmjhuzuchoej
posjutngbhpzjuo,houljhqjjmhisjuoephxahuns,hugqhyxxlhuix ohuohoejhyxgb
posngbhxahtxzjsphugqhuohzeuohzupheummjgngbhusx gqhnghoejhaxsjpohugqhoej
fx gosck

OejhyxgbjshYjrnghtxzjq,hoejhxaojgjshejhajyohoejhtxtjgophxa
 gfxgpfnx pgjpphnghzenfehnohpjjtjqhgxohenpheugqphoeuohpz gbhoejhpfcoej,
i ohoejhpfcoejhtxzngbhxahnopjya,huhixqcha yyhxahynajhugqhfxgpfnx pgjpp
xahnophxzg,hugqhuphoex behichtubnf,hznoex ohoenglngbhxahno,hoejhzxsl
o sgjqhx ohsjb yushugqhzjyy-angnpejqhxahnopjyakhOejpjhzjsjhoejhtxpo
iynppa yhtxtjgopk

Nohzuphxgycheusqhzxslhzejghejheuqhoxhisjulhxaahoejhtxonxg,hzenfeheuq
ijfxtjh gfxgpfnx p,hugqhoxhoengl;hzejghejheuqhoxhtxzhsx gqhuhenyyxflhxs
uho aohxahpxssjykhOejhxyqhtughqnqhoenphjupnyckhZejghuhenyyxflhfutjhej
feugbjqhenphufonxg,hugqhuohxgjhontjhznoehoejhejjy,hugqhuohugxoejshznoe
oejhonmhxahenphpfcoej,hfynmmjqhoejhenyyxflhsx gqhixoehpnqjphznoehpexso
posxljpkhUgqhzenyjhejhqnqhoenphejhljmohyxxlngbhuix ohugqhzuofengbhzeuo
futjhngoxhenphrnjz:huohxgjhtxtjgohejhmnfljqhuhznyqhijsschugqhuojhnohxs
xaajsjqhnohoxhYjrng,hoejghejhay gbhuzuchuhoznbhznoehoejhiyuqjhxahoej
pfcoej,hoejghejhyxxljqhuohuhw uny’phgjpo,hasxthzenfehoejhinsqhayjzh. po
 gqjshoejhpfcoej,hxshfu beohuhpguljhoeuohfsxppjqhenphmuoe,hugqhynaongb
nohxghoejhpfcoejhuphoex behxghuhaxslhpexzjqhnohoxhYjrnghugqhoesjzhno
uzuck

AxshixoehYjrnghugqhoejhcx gbhmjupugohijengqhent,hp fehfeugbjphxa
mxpnonxghzjsjhqnaanf yokhIxoehxahoejt,hsjmjuongbhxrjshugqhxrjshubung
oejhputjhposungjqhtxrjtjgo,hzjsjhnghuhmjsajfohasjgdchxahoxny,hugqhzjsj
ngfumuiyjhxahpenaongbhoejnshmxpnonxghugqhuohoejhputjhontjhzuofengbhzeuo
zuphijaxsjhoejtk

YjrnghqnqhgxohgxonfjhexzhontjhzuphmuppngbkhNahejheuqhijjghupljqhexz
yxgbhejheuqhijjghzxslngbhejhzx yqheurjhpunqheuyahughex s—ugqhnohzup
bjoongbhxghaxshqnggjshontjkhUphoejchzjsjhzuylngbhiuflhxrjshoejhf o
bsupp,hoejhxyqhtughfuyyjqhYjrng’phuoojgonxghoxhoejhynooyjhbnsyphugq
ixcphzexhzjsjhfxtngbhasxthqnaajsjgohqnsjfonxgp,heusqychrnpniyjhoesx be
oejhyxgbhbsupp,hugqhuyxgbhoejhsxuqhoxzusqphoejhtxzjsp,hfusscngbhpuflp
xahisjuqhqsubbngbhuohoejnshynooyjheugqphugqhmnofejsphxahoejhpx s
scj-ijjs,hznoehfyxoephzsummjqhsx gqhoejtk

“Yxxl’jj,hoejhynooyjhjttjophfsuzyngb!”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoejt,hugq
ejhpeuqjqhenphjcjphznoehenpheugqhoxhyxxlhuohoejhp gkhOejchtxzjqhozx
txsjhsxzp;hoejhxyqhtughpoxmmjqk

“Fxtj,htupojs,hqnggjshontj!”hejhpunqhisnplyckhUgqhxghsjufengbhoej
posjuthoejhtxzjsphtxrjqhxaahufsxpphoejhyngjphxahf ohbsupphoxzusqphoejns
mnyjhxahfxuop,hzejsjhoejhfenyqsjghzexheuqhisx beohoejnshqnggjsphzjsj
pnoongbhzunongbhaxshoejtkhOejhmjupugophbuoejsjqhngoxhbsx mp—oexpj
a soejshuzuch gqjshuhfuso,hoexpjhgjusjsh gqjshuhznyyxzhi pek

Yjrnghpuohqxzghichoejt;hejhajyohqnpngfyngjqhoxhbxhuzuck

UyyhfxgposungohznoehoejhtupojsheuqhqnpummjusjqhyxgbhubxkhOejhmjupugop
bxohsjuqchaxshqnggjskhPxtjhzupejq,hoejhcx gbhyuqphiuoejqhnghoejhposjut,
xoejsphtuqjhuhmyufjhfxtaxsouiyjhaxshuhsjpo,h gonjqhoejnshpuflphxa
isjuq,hugqh gfxrjsjqhoejhmnofejsphxahscj-ijjskhOejhxyqhtughfs tiyjqh m
pxtjhisjuqhnghuhf m,hponssjqhnohznoehoejheugqyjhxahuhpmxxg,hmx sjq
zuojshxghnohasxthoejhqnmmjs,hisxljh mhpxtjhtxsjhisjuq,hugqheurngb
pjupxgjqhnohznoehpuyo,hejho sgjqhoxhoejhjupohoxhpuchenphmsucjsk

“Fxtj,htupojs,houpojhtchpxm,”hpunqhej,hlgjjyngbhqxzghijaxsjhoejhf mk

OejhpxmhzuphpxhbxxqhoeuohYjrnghburjh mhoejhnqjuhxahbxngbhextjkhEjhqngjq
znoehoejhxyqhtug,hugqhouyljqhoxhenthuix ohenphautnychuaaunsp,houlngb
oejhljjgjpohngojsjpohnghoejt,hugqhoxyqhenthuix ohenphxzghuaaunsphugq
uyyhoejhfnsf tpougfjphoeuohfx yqhijhxahngojsjpohoxhoejhxyqhtugkhEjhajyo
t fehgjusjshoxhenthoeughoxhenphisxoejs,hugqhfx yqhgxohejymhptnyngbhuo
oejhuaajfonxghejhajyohaxshoenphtugkhZejghoejhxyqhtughbxoh mhubung,hpunq
enphmsucjs,hugqhyuchqxzgh gqjshuhi pe,hm oongbhpxtjhbsupph gqjshenp
ejuqhaxshuhmnyyxz,hYjrnghqnqhoejhputj,hugqhnghpmnojhxahoejhfyngbngb
aynjphoeuohzjsjhpxhmjspnpojgohnghoejhp gpengj,hugqhoejhtnqbjphoeuo
onflyjqhenphexohaufjhugqhixqc,hejhajyyhupyjjmhuohxgfjhugqhxgychzuljq
zejghoejhp gheuqhmuppjqhoxhoejhxoejshpnqjhxahoejhi pehugqhsjufejqhentk
Oejhxyqhtugheuqhijjghuzuljhuhyxgbhzenyj,hugqhzuphpnoongbh mhzejoongb
oejhpfcoejphxahoejhcx gbjshyuqpk

Yjrnghyxxljqhuix ohenthugqheusqychsjfxbgndjqhoejhmyufj,hjrjscoengbhzup
pxhfeugbjqkhOejhnttjgpjhposjofehxahtjuqxzheuqhijjghtxzghugqhzup
pmuslyngbhznoehuhmjf ynushasjpehisnyynugfj,hznoehnophyngjphxahuysjuqc
pzjjo-ptjyyngbhbsupphnghoejhpyugongbhsucphxahoejhjrjgngbhp gkhUgqhoej
i pejphuix ohoejhsnrjsheuqhijjghf ohqxzg,hugqhoejhsnrjshnopjya,hgxo
rnpniyjhijaxsj,hgxzhbyjutngbhynljhpojjyhnghnophijgqp,hugqhoejhtxrngb,
upfjgqngb,hmjupugop,hugqhoejhpeusmhzuyyhxahbsupphxahoejh gtxzghmusohxa
oejhtjuqxz,hugqhoejheuzlphexrjsngbhxrjshoejhposnmmjqhtjuqxz—uyyhzup
mjsajfoychgjzkhSunpngbhentpjya,hYjrnghijbughfxgpnqjsngbhexzht feheuq
ijjghf ohugqhexzht fehtxsjhfx yqhponyyhijhqxgjhoeuohquck

Oejhzxslhqxgjhzuphjvfjmonxguyycht fehaxshaxsoc-ozxhtjgkhOejcheuqhf o
oejhzexyjhxahoejhinbhtjuqxz,hzenfeheuq,hnghoejhcjusphxahpjsahyuixs,
ouljghoensochpfcoejphozxhqucphoxhtxzkhXgychoejhfxsgjsphsjtungjqhoxhqx,
zejsjhoejhsxzphzjsjhpexsokhI ohYjrnghajyohuhyxgbngbhoxhbjohupht fe
txzngbhqxgjhoeuohquchuphmxppniyj,hugqhzuphrjvjqhznoehoejhp ghpnglngbhpx
w nflychnghoejhplckhEjhajyohgxhzjusngjpp;huyyhejhzugojqhzuphoxhbjohenp
zxslhqxgjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhw nflychugqhupht fehqxgjhuphmxppniyjk

“Fx yqhcx hf ohTupelngh myugqhoxx?—zeuohqxhcx hoengl?”hejhpunqhoxhoej
xyqhtugk

“UphBxqhznyyp,hoejhp g’phgxohenbekhUhynooyjhrxqluhaxshoejhyuqp?”

Uohoejhuaojsgxxghsjpo,hzejghoejchzjsjhpnoongbhqxzghubung,hugqhoexpjhzex
ptxljqheuqhynbeojqhoejnshmnmjp,hoejhxyqhtughoxyqhoejhtjghoeuoh“Tupelng
 myugq’phoxhijhf o—oejsj’yyhijhpxtjhrxqluk”

“Zechgxohf ohno?hFxtjhxg,hOno!hZj’yyhyxxlhpeusm!hZjhfughjuohuohgnbeok
Fxtjhxg!”hfsnjqhrxnfjp,hugqhjuongbh mhoejnshisjuq,hoejhtxzjsphzjgohiufl
oxhzxslk

“Fxtj,hyuqp,hljjmhnoh m!”hpunqhOno,hugqhsughxghuejuqhuytxpohuohuhosxok

“Bjohuyxgb,hbjohuyxgb!”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,he sscngbhuaojshenthugqhjupnyc
xrjsoulngbhent,h“N’yyhtxzhcx hqxzg,hyxxlhx o!”

Ugqhcx gbhugqhxyqhtxzjqhuzuc,huphoex behoejchzjsjhsufngbhznoehxgj
ugxoejskhI ohexzjrjshaupohoejchzxsljq,hoejchqnqhgxohpmxnyhoejhbsupp,
ugqhoejhsxzphzjsjhyunqh. pohuphgjuoychugqhjvufoyckhOejhynooyjhmnjfj
yjaoh gf ohnghoejhfxsgjshzuphtxzghnghanrjhtng ojpkhOejhyupohxahoej
txzjsphzjsjh. pohjgqngbhoejnshsxzphzenyjhoejhaxsjtxpohpguofejqh mhoejns
fxuophxgoxhoejnshpex yqjsp,hugqhfsxppjqhoejhsxuqhoxzusqphTupelng
 myugqk

Oejhp ghzuphuysjuqchpnglngbhngoxhoejhosjjphzejghoejchzjgohznoehoejns
.ngbyngbhqnmmjsphngoxhoejhzxxqjqhsurngjhxahTupelngh myugqkhOejhbsupp
zuph mhoxhoejnshzunpophnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhexyyxz,hpxao,hojgqjs,hugq
ajuoejsc,hpmxoojqhejsjhugqhoejsjhutxgbhoejhosjjphznoehznyq
ejuso’p-jupjk

Uaojshuhisnjahfxgp youonxg—zejoejshoxhouljhoejhsxzphyjgboeznpjhxs
qnubxguyyc—MsxexshCjstnyng,huypxhuhsjgxzgjqhtxzjs,huhe bj,hiyufl-eunsjq
mjupugo,hzjgohxghuejuqkhEjhzjgoh mhoxhoejhoxm,ho sgjqhiuflhubunghugq
pousojqhtxzngb,hugqhoejchuyyhmsxfjjqjqhoxhaxsthnghyngjhijengqhent,
bxngbhqxzgenyyhoesx behoejhexyyxzhugqh menyyhsnbeoh mhoxhoejhjqbjhxa
oejhaxsjpokhOejhp ghpuglhijengqhoejhaxsjpokhOejhqjzhzuphauyyngbhichgxz;
oejhtxzjsphzjsjhnghoejhp ghxgychxghoejhenyypnqj,hi ohijyxz,hzejsjhu
tnpohzuphsnpngb,hugqhxghoejhxmmxpnojhpnqj,hoejchtxzjqhngoxhoejhasjpe,
qjzchpeuqjkhOejhzxslhzjgohsumnqyckhOejhbsupphf ohznoehuh. nfchpx gq,
ugqhzuphuohxgfjhyunqhnghenbe,hasubsugohsxzpkhOejhtxzjsphasxthuyyhpnqjp,
isx beohfyxpjshoxbjoejshnghoejhpexsohsxz,hljmoh sbngbhxgjhugxoejshxghox
oejhpx gqhxah.ngbyngbhqnmmjsphugqhfyugbngbhpfcoejp,hugqhoejhenpphxahoej
zejopoxgjphpeusmjgngbhoejt,hugqhbxxq-e txsjqhpex opk

Yjrnghponyyhljmohijozjjghoejhcx gbhmjupugohugqhoejhxyqhtugkhOejhxyq
tug,hzexheuqhm ohxghenphpexsohpejjmplngh.ufljo,hzuph. pohup
bxxq-e txsjq,h.xfxpj,hugqhasjjhnghenphtxrjtjgopkhUtxgbhoejhosjjphoejc
zjsjhfxgong uyychf oongbhznoehoejnshpfcoejphoejhpx-fuyyjqh“insfe
t pesxxtp,”hpzxyyjghauohnghoejhp ff yjgohbsuppkhI ohoejhxyqhtughijgo
qxzghjrjschontjhejhfutjhufsxpphuht pesxxt,hmnfljqhnoh mhugqhm ohnohng
enphixpxtkh“Ugxoejshmsjpjgohaxshtchxyqhzxtug,”hejhpunqhuphejhqnqhpxk

Jupchuphnohzuphoxhtxzhoejhzjo,hpxaohbsupp,hnohzupheusqhzxslhbxngbh m
ugqhqxzghoejhpojjmhpnqjphxahoejhsurngjkhI ohoenphqnqhgxohosx iyjhoej
xyqhtugkhPzngbngbhenphpfcoejh. pohuphjrjs,hugqhtxrngbhenphajjohnghoejns
inb,hmyunojqhpexjphznoehanst,hynooyjhpojmp,hejhfyntijqhpyxzych mhoej
pojjmhmyufj,hugqhoex behenphisjjfejpheugbngbhx ohijyxzhenphptxfl,hugq
enphzexyjhasutjhosjtiyjqhznoehjaaxso,hejhqnqhgxohtnpphxgjhiyuqjhxa
bsupphxshxgjht pesxxthxghenphzuc,hugqhljmohtulngbh.xljphznoehoej
mjupugophugqhYjrngkhYjrnghzuyljqhuaojshenthugqhxaojghoex beohejht po
auyy,huphejhfyntijqhznoehuhpfcoejh mhuhpojjmhfynaahzejsjhnohzx yqheurj
ijjgheusqhzxslhoxhfyutijshznoex ohugcoengbkhI ohejhfyntijqh mhugqhqnq
zeuohejheuqhoxhqxkhEjhajyohuphoex behpxtjhjvojsguyhaxsfjhzjsjhtxrngb
entk


Feumojsh6

Tupelngh myugqhzuphtxzg,hoejhyupohsxzhangnpejq,hoejhmjupugopheuqhm ohxg
oejnshfxuophugqhzjsjhbunychos qbngbhextjkhYjrnghbxohxghenphexspjhugq,
musongbhsjbsjoa yychasxthoejhmjupugop,hsxqjhextjzusqpkhXghoejhenyypnqj
ejhyxxljqhiufl;hejhfx yqhgxohpjjhoejthnghoejhtnpohoeuoheuqhsnpjghasxt
oejhruyyjc;hejhfx yqhxgychejushsx be,hbxxq-e txsjqhrxnfjp,hyu beojs,
ugqhoejhpx gqhxahfyuglngbhpfcoejpk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhyxgbhubxhangnpejqhqnggjs,hugqhzuphqsnglngbhnfjq
yjtxghugqhzuojshnghenphxzghsxxt,hyxxlngbhoesx behoejhsjrnjzphugqhmumjsp
zenfehejheuqhxgych. pohsjfjnrjqhichmxpo,hzejghYjrnghs pejqhngoxhoej
sxxt,houylngbhtjssnyc,hznoehenphzjohugqhtuoojqheunshponflngbhoxhenp
axsjejuq,hugqhenphiuflhugqhfejpohbsntjqhugqhtxnpok

“Zjhtxzjqhoejhzexyjhtjuqxz!hXe,hnohnphgnfj,hqjynfnx p!hUgqhexzheurjhcx 
ijjghbjoongbhxg?”hpunqhYjrng,hfxtmyjojychaxsbjoongbhoejhqnpubsjjuiyj
fxgrjspuonxghxahoejhmsjrnx phquck

“Tjsfc!hzeuohqxhcx hyxxlhynlj!”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,haxshoejhanspo
txtjgohyxxlngbhsx gqhznoehpxtjhqnppuonpaufonxgkh“Ugqhoejhqxxs,hqxhpe o
oejhqxxs!”hejhfsnjqkh“Cx ht poheurjhyjohnghuhqxdjghuohyjupok”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehfx yqhgxohjgq sjhaynjp,hugqhnghenphxzghsxxthejhgjrjs
xmjgjqhoejhzngqxzhjvfjmohuohgnbeo,hugqhfusja yychljmohoejhqxxshpe ok

“Gxohxgj,hxghtchexgxskhI ohnahNheurj,hN’yyhfuofehoejtkhCx hzx yqg’o
ijynjrjhzeuohuhmyjup sjhnohnp!hExzheurjhcx hpmjgohoejhquc?”

“RjschzjyykhI oheurjhcx hsjuyychijjghtxzngbhoejhzexyjhquc?hNhjvmjfo
cx ’sjhuphe gbschuphuhzxyakhLx dtuheuphbxohjrjscoengbhsjuqchaxshcx k”

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohajjyhe gbschjrjgkhNheuqhpxtjoengbhoxhjuohoejsjkhI ohN’yy
bxhugqhzupek”

“Cjp,hbxhuyxgb,hbxhuyxgb,hugqhN’yyhfxtjhoxhcx hqnsjfoyc,”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hpeulngbhenphejuqhuphejhyxxljqhuohenphisxoejskh“Bxhuyxgb,
tuljheupoj,”hejhuqqjqhptnyngb,hugqhbuoejsngbh mhenphixxlp,hejhmsjmusjq
oxhbxhoxxkhEj,hoxx,hajyohp qqjgychbxxq-e txsjqhugqhqnpngfyngjqhoxhyjurj
enphisxoejs’phpnqjkh“I ohzeuohqnqhcx hqxhzenyjhnohzuphsungngb?”

“Sung?hZec,hoejsjhzuphpfusfjychuhqsxmkhN’yyhfxtjhqnsjfoyckhPxhcx heuqhu
gnfjhquchoxx?hOeuo’phanspo-suojk”hUgqhYjrnghzjgohxaahoxhfeugbjhenp
fyxoejpk

Anrjhtng ojphyuojshoejhisxoejsphtjohnghoejhqngngb-sxxtkhUyoex behno
pjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohejhzuphgxohe gbsc,hugqhejhpuohqxzghoxhqnggjs
pntmychpxhuphgxohoxhe sohLx dtu’phajjyngbp,hcjohzejghejhijbughoxhjuo
oejhqnggjshpos flhenthuphjvosuxsqngusnychbxxqkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
zuofejqhenthznoehuhptnyjk

“Xe,hichoejhzuc,hoejsj’phuhyjoojshaxshcx ,”hpunqhejkh“Lx dtu,hisngbhno
qxzg,hmyjupjkhUgqhtngqhcx hpe ohoejhqxxspk”

OejhyjoojshzuphasxthXiyxgplckhYjrnghsjuqhnohuyx qkhXiyxgplchzsxojhox
enthasxthMjojspi sb:h“NheurjheuqhuhyjoojshasxthQxyyc;hpej’phuo
Jsb pexrx,hugqhjrjscoengbhpjjtphbxngbhzsxgbhoejsjkhQxhsnqjhxrjshugqhpjj
ejs,hmyjupj;hejymhejshznoehuqrnfj;hcx hlgxzhuyyhuix ohnokhPejhznyyhij
pxhbyuqhoxhpjjhcx khPej’phw nojhuyxgj,hmxxshoengbkhTchtxoejs-ng-yuzhugq
uyyhxahoejthusjhponyyhuisxuqk”

“Oeuo’phfumnouy!hNhznyyhfjsoungychsnqjhxrjshoxhejs,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Xs
zj’yyhbxhoxbjoejskhPej’php fehuhpmyjgqnqhzxtug,hnpg’ohpej?”

“Oejc’sjhgxohaushasxthejsj,hoejg?”

“Ozjgoc-anrjhtnyjpkhXshmjseumphnohnphoensockhI ohuhfumnouyhsxuqk
Fumnouy,hzj’yyhqsnrjhxrjsk”

“Nhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojq,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hponyyhptnyngbkhOej
pnbeohxahenphcx gbjshisxoejs’phummjusugfjheuqhnttjqnuojychm ohenthnghu
bxxqhe txsk

“Zjyy,hcx heurjhughummjonoj!”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohenphqusl-sjq,
p gi sgohaufjhugqhgjflhijgohxrjshoejhmyuojk

“Pmyjgqnq!hCx hfug’ohntubngjhzeuohughjaajfo uyhsjtjqchnohnphaxshjrjsc
pxsohxahaxxynpegjppkhNhzugohoxhjgsnfehtjqnfngjhznoehuhgjzhzxsq:
_Usijnopl s_k”

“Zjyy,hi ohcx hqxg’ohgjjqhno,hNhpex yqhaugfck”

“Gx,hi ohaxshuyyhpxsophxahgjsrx phngruynqpk”

“Cjp,hnohx beohoxhijhosnjqkhNheuqhtjugohoxhfxtjhoxhoejhtxzngbhoxhyxxl
uohcx ,hi ohnohzuphpxh gijusuiychexohoeuohNhbxohgxha soejshoeughoej
axsjpokhNhpuohoejsjhuhynooyj,hugqhzjgohxghichoejhaxsjpohoxhoejhrnyyubj,
tjohcx shxyqhg spj,hugqhpx gqjqhejshuphoxhoejhmjupugop’hrnjzhxahcx khUp
aushuphNhfughtuljhx o,hoejchqxg’ohummsxrjhxahoenpkhPejhpunq:h‘No’phgxo
uhbjgoyjtug’phzxslk’hUyoxbjoejs,hNhaugfchoeuohnghoejhmjxmyj’phnqjup
oejsjhusjhrjschfyjushugqhqjangnojhgxonxgphxahfjsoung,huphoejchfuyyhno,
‘bjgoyjtugyc’hyngjphxahufonxgkhUgqhoejchqxg’ohpugfonxghoejhbjgosc’p
txrngbhx opnqjhix gqphfyjusychyunqhqxzghnghoejnshnqjupk”

“Tucijhpx;hi ohugczuchno’phuhmyjup sjhp fehuphNheurjhgjrjshlgxzghnghtc
ynajkhUgqhoejsj’phgxheusthnghno,hcx hlgxzkhNphoejsj?”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk
“Nhfug’ohejymhnohnahoejchqxg’ohynljhnokhOex behNhqxhijynjrjhno’phuyy
snbeokhJe?”

“Uyoxbjoejs,”hm sp jqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,h“cx ’sjhpuonpanjqhznoehcx s
quc?”

“W nojhpuonpanjqkhZjhf ohoejhzexyjhtjuqxzkhUgqhp fehuhpmyjgqnqhxyqhtug
Nhtuqjhasnjgqphznoehoejsj!hCx hfug’ohaugfchexzhqjynbeoa yhejhzup!”

“Zjyy,hpxhcx ’sjhfxgojgohznoehcx shquckhUgqhpxhuthNkhAnspo,hNhpxyrjq
ozxhfejpphmsxiyjtp,hugqhxgjhuhrjschmsjoochxgj—uhmuzghxmjgngbkhN’yyhpexz
nohcx khUgqhoejg—Nhoex beohxrjshx shfxgrjspuonxghcjpojsquck”

“Je!hx shfxgrjspuonxghcjpojsquc?”hpunqhYjrng,hiynppa yychqsxmmngbhenp
jcjynqphugqhqsuzngbhqjjmhisjuoephuaojshangnpengbhenphqnggjs,hugq
uipxy ojychngfumuiyjhxahsjfuyyngbhzeuohoejnshfxgrjspuonxghcjpojsquchzup
uix ok

“Nhoenglhcx husjhmusoychsnbeokhX shqnaajsjgfjhxahxmngnxghutx gophox
oenp,hoeuohcx htuljhoejhtungpmsngbhpjya-ngojsjpo,hzenyjhNhp mmxpjhoeuo
ngojsjpohnghoejhfxttxghzjuyhnphix gqhoxhjvnpohnghjrjschtughxahuhfjsoung
qjbsjjhxahuqrugfjtjgokhMxppniychcx husjhsnbeohoxx,hoeuohufonxghax gqjq
xghtuojsnuyhngojsjpohzx yqhijhtxsjhqjpnsuiyjkhCx husjhuyoxbjoejs,hup
oejhAsjgfehpuc,hoxxh_msntjpu onèsj_huhguo sj;hcx ht poheurjhngojgpj,
jgjsbjonfhufonxg,hxshgxoengbk”

Yjrnghynpojgjqhoxhenphisxoejshugqhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhuhpngbyjhzxsq,hugq
qnqhgxohzugohoxh gqjspougqkhEjhzuphxgychuasunqhenphisxoejshtnbeohupl
enthpxtjhw jponxghzenfehzx yqhtuljhnohjrnqjgohejheuqhgxohejusqk

“Pxhoeuo’phzeuohNhoenglhnohnp,htchqjushixc,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
ox fengbhenthxghoejhpex yqjsk

“Cjp,hxahfx spjkhI o,hqxhcx hlgxz?hNhzxg’ohpougqh mhaxshtchrnjz,”
ugpzjsjqhYjrng,hznoehuhb nyoc,hfenyqynljhptnyjkh“ZeuojrjshzuphnohNhzup
qnpm ongbhuix o?”hejhzxgqjsjqkh“Xahfx spj,hN’thsnbeo,hugqhej’phsnbeo,
ugqhno’phuyyhanspo-suojkhXgychNht pohbxhsx gqhoxhoejhfx gongbhex pjhugq
pjjhoxhoengbpk”hEjhbxoh m,hposjofengbhugqhptnyngbkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
ptnyjqhoxxk

“Nahcx hzugohoxhbxhx o,hyjo’phbxhoxbjoejs,”hejhpunq,hqnpngfyngjqhoxhij
musojqhasxthenphisxoejs,hzexhpjjtjqhmxpnonrjychisjuoengbhx ohasjpegjpp
ugqhjgjsbckh“Fxtj,hzj’yyhbxhoxhoejhfx gongbhex pj,hnahcx heurjhoxhbx
oejsjk”

“Xe,hejurjgp!”hpex ojqhYjrng,hpxhyx qychoeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzup
w nojhasnbeojgjqk

“Zeuo,hzeuohnphoejhtuoojs?”

“Exz’phUbuajuhTneuyxrgu’pheugq?”hpunqhYjrng,hpyummngbhentpjyahxghoej
ejuqkh“N’qhmxpnonrjychaxsbxoojghejshjrjgk”

“No’pht fehijoojsk”

“Zjyy,hugczuchN’yyhs ghqxzghoxhejskhIjaxsjhcx ’rjhontjhoxhbjohcx sheuo
xg,hN’yyhijhiuflk”

Ugqhejhsughqxzgpounsp,hfyuoojsngbhznoehenphejjyphynljhuhpmsngb-suooyjk


Feumojsh7

PojmeughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhbxgjhoxhMjojspi sbhoxhmjsaxsthoejhtxpohguo suy
ugqhjppjgonuyhxaanfnuyhq oc—pxhautnynushoxhjrjscxgjhnghoejhbxrjsgtjgo
pjsrnfj,hoex behngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhx opnqjsp—oeuohq oc,hi ohaxshzenfe
xgjhfx yqheusqychijhnghbxrjsgtjgohpjsrnfj,hxahsjtngqngbhoejhtngnposchxa
enphjvnpojgfj—ugqheurngb,haxshoejhq jhmjsaxstugfjhxahoenphsnoj,houljg
uyyhoejhurunyuiyjhfupehasxthextj,hzuphbunychugqhubsjjuiychpmjgqngbhenp
qucphuohoejhsufjphugqhnghoejhp ttjshrnyyupkhTjugzenyjhQxyychugqhoej
fenyqsjgheuqhtxrjqhngoxhoejhfx gosc,hoxhf ohqxzghjvmjgpjphupht fehup
mxppniyjkhPejheuqhbxgjhoxhJsb pexrx,hoejhjpouojhoeuoheuqhijjghejs
qxzsc,hugqhoejhxgjhzejsjhnghpmsngbhoejhaxsjpoheuqhijjghpxyqkhNohzup
gjusychaxsochtnyjphasxthYjrng’phMxlsxrplxjkhOejhinb,hxyqhex pjhuo
Jsb pexrxheuqhijjghm yyjqhqxzghyxgbhubx,hugqhoejhxyqhmsngfjheuqheuqhoej
yxqbjhqxgjh mhugqhi nyohxghoxkhOzjgochcjusphijaxsj,hzejghQxyychzuphu
fenyq,hoejhyxqbjheuqhijjghsxxtchugqhfxtaxsouiyj,hoex be,hynljhuyy
yxqbjp,hnohpoxxqhpnqjzucphoxhoejhjgosugfjhurjg j,hugqhaufjqhoejhpx oek
I ohichgxzhoenphyxqbjhzuphxyqhugqhqnyumnquojqkhZejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
euqhbxgjhqxzghnghoejhpmsngbhoxhpjyyhoejhaxsjpo,hQxyycheuqhijbbjqhenthox
yxxlhxrjshoejhex pjhugqhxsqjshzeuohsjmunsphtnbeohijhgjjqjqkhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hynljhuyyh gaunoea yhe piugqphngqjjq,hzuphrjschpxynfnox p
axshenphznaj’phfxtaxso,hugqhejheuqhentpjyahyxxljqhxrjshoejhex pj,hugq
bnrjghngpos fonxgphuix ohjrjscoengbhoeuohejhfxgpnqjsjqhgjfjppusckhZeuo
ejhfxgpnqjsjqhgjfjppuschzuphoxhfxrjshuyyhoejha sgno sjhznoehfsjoxggj,
oxhm oh mhf soungp,hoxhzjjqhoejhbusqjg,hoxhtuljhuhynooyjhisnqbjhxghoej
mxgq,hugqhoxhmyugohayxzjspkhI ohejhaxsbxohtugchxoejshjppjgonuyhtuoojsp,
oejhzugohxahzenfehbsjuoychqnposjppjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhyuojshxgk

NghpmnojhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phjaaxsophoxhijhughuoojgonrjhauoejshugq
e piugq,hejhgjrjshfx yqhljjmhnghenphtngqhoeuohejheuqhuhznajhugq
fenyqsjgkhEjheuqhiufejyxshoupojp,hugqhnohzuphnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoejt
oeuohejhpeumjqhenphynajkhXghenphsjo sghoxhTxpfxzhejhngaxstjqhenphznaj
znoehmsnqjhoeuohjrjscoengbhzuphsjuqc,hoeuohoejhex pjhzx yqhijhuhynooyj
musuqnpj,hugqhoeuohejhuqrnpjqhejshtxpohfjsoungychoxhbxkhEnphznaj’p
poucngbhuzuchnghoejhfx goschzuphrjschubsjjuiyjhoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
asxthjrjschmxngohxahrnjz:hnohqnqhoejhfenyqsjghbxxq,hnohqjfsjupjq
jvmjgpjp,hugqhnohyjaohenthtxsjhuohynijsockhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhsjbusqjq
poucngbhnghoejhfx goschaxshoejhp ttjshuphjppjgonuyhaxshoejhfenyqsjg,
jpmjfnuyychaxshoejhynooyjhbnsy,hzexheuqhgxohp ffjjqjqhnghsjbungngbhejs
posjgboehuaojshoejhpfusyuongu,hugqhuypxhuphuhtjugphxahjpfumngbhoej
mjooche tnynuonxgp,hoejhynooyjhinyyphxzngbhoxhoejhzxxq-tjsfeugo,hoej
anpetxgbjs,hoejhpexjtuljs,hzenfehtuqjhejshtnpjsuiyjkhIjpnqjphoenp,hpej
zuphmyjupjqhoxhbxhuzuchoxhoejhfx goschijfu pjhpejhzuphqsjutngbhxa
bjoongbhejshpnpojshLnoochoxhpouchznoehejshoejsjkhLnoochzuphoxhijhiufl
asxthuisxuqhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhp ttjs,hugqhiuoengbheuqhijjg
msjpfsnijqhaxshejskhLnoochzsxojhoeuohgxhmsxpmjfohzuphpxhuyy sngbhuphox
pmjgqhoejhp ttjshznoehQxyychuohJsb pexrx,ha yyhxahfenyqnpehuppxfnuonxgp
axshixoehxahoejtk

Oejhanspohqucphxahejshjvnpojgfjhnghoejhfx goschzjsjhrjscheusqhaxs
QxyyckhPejh pjqhoxhpouchnghoejhfx goschuphuhfenyq,hugqhoejhntmsjppnxg
pejheuqhsjoungjqhxahnohzuphoeuohoejhfx goschzuphuhsja bjhasxthuyyhoej
 gmyjupugogjpphxahoejhoxzg,hoeuohynajhoejsj,hoex behgxohy v snx p—Qxyyc
fx yqhjupnychtuljh mhejshtngqhoxhoeuo—zuphfejumhugqhfxtaxsouiyj;hoeuo
oejsjhzuphmyjgochxahjrjscoengb,hjrjscoengbhzuphfejum,hjrjscoengbhfx yq
ijhbxo,hugqhfenyqsjghzjsjheummckhI ohgxzhfxtngbhoxhoejhfx goschuphoej
ejuqhxahuhautnyc,hpejhmjsfjnrjqhoeuohnohzuphuyyh oojsych gynljhzeuohpej
euqhaugfnjqk

Oejhquchuaojshoejnshussnruyhoejsjhzuphuhejurchauyyhxahsung,hugqhnghoej
gnbeohoejhzuojshfutjhoesx behnghoejhfxssnqxshugqhnghoejhg spjsc,hpx
oeuohoejhijqpheuqhoxhijhfussnjqhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtkhOejsjhzuphgx
lnofejghtunqhoxhijhax gq;hxahoejhgngjhfxzp,hnohummjusjqhasxthoejhzxsqp
xahoejhfxzejsq-zxtughoeuohpxtjhzjsjhuix ohoxhfuyrj,hxoejspheuqh. po
fuyrjq,hxoejsphzjsjhxyq,hugqhxoejsphubungheusq- qqjsjq;hoejsjhzuphgxo
i oojshgxshtnylhjgx behjrjghaxshoejhfenyqsjgkhOejsjhzjsjhgxhjbbpkhOejc
fx yqhbjohgxhaxzyp;hxyq,hm smynpe,hposngbchfxflphzjsjhuyyhoejcheuqhaxs
sxupongbhugqhixnyngbkhNtmxppniyjhoxhbjohzxtjghoxhpfs ihoejhayxxsp—uyy
zjsjhmxouox-exjngbkhQsnrngbhzuphx ohxahoejhw jponxg,hijfu pjhxgjhxahoej
exspjphzuphsjponrj,hugqhixyojqhnghoejhpeuaopkhOejsjhzuphgxhmyufjhzejsj
oejchfx yqhiuoej;hoejhzexyjhxahoejhsnrjs-iuglhzuphosutmyjqhichoej
fuooyjhugqhxmjghoxhoejhsxuq;hjrjghzuylphzjsjhntmxppniyj,haxshoejhfuooyj
posucjqhngoxhoejhbusqjghoesx behuhbumhnghoejhejqbj,hugqhoejsjhzuphxgj
ojssniyjhi yy,hzexhijyyxzjq,hugqhoejsjaxsjhtnbeohijhjvmjfojqhoxhbxsj
pxtjixqckhOejsjhzjsjhgxhmsxmjshf mixusqphaxshoejnshfyxoejp;hzeuo
f mixusqphoejsjhzjsjhjnoejshzx yqhgxohfyxpjhuohuyy,hxshi spohxmjg
zejgjrjshugcxgjhmuppjqhichoejtkhOejsjhzjsjhgxhmxophugqhmugp;hoejsjhzup
gxhfxmmjshnghoejhzupeex pj,hgxshjrjghughnsxgngb-ixusqhnghoejhtunqp’
sxxtk

Angqngbhngpojuqhxahmjufjhugqhsjpohuyyhoejpj,hasxthejshmxngohxahrnjz,
ajusa yhfuyutnonjp,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphuohanspohnghqjpmunskhPej
jvjsojqhejspjyahoxhoejh otxpo,hajyohoejhexmjyjppgjpphxahoejhmxpnonxg,
ugqhzuphjrjschngpougohp mmsjppngbhoejhojusphoeuohpousojqhngoxhejshjcjpk
Oejhiunynaa,huhsjonsjqhw usojstupojs,hzexthPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuq
ouljghuhaugfchoxhugqheuqhummxngojqhiunynaahxghuffx gohxahenpheugqpxtj
ugqhsjpmjfoa yhummjusugfjhuphuheuyy-mxsojs,hpexzjqhgxhpctmuoechaxs
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phzxjpkhEjhpunqhsjpmjfoa yyc,h“gxoengbhfughijhqxgj,
oejhmjupugophusjhp fehuhzsjofejqhyxo,”hugqhqnqhgxoengbhoxhejymhejsk

OejhmxpnonxghpjjtjqhexmjyjppkhI ohnghoejhXiyxgplcp’hex pjexyq,huphng
uyyhautnynjphngqjjq,hoejsjhzuphxgjhngfxgpmnf x phi ohtxpohruy uiyjhugq
 pja yhmjspxg,hTuscuhMenyntxgxrgukhPejhpxxoejqhejshtnposjpp,hupp sjq
ejshoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqh_fxtjhsx gq_h(nohzuphejshjvmsjppnxg,hugq
Tuorjcheuqhixssxzjqhnohasxthejs),hugqhznoex oha pphxshe sschmsxfjjqjq
oxhpjohoxhzxslhejspjyakhPejheuqhnttjqnuojychtuqjhasnjgqphznoehoej
iunynaa’phznaj,hugqhxghoejhrjschanspohquchpejhqsuglhojuhznoehejshugq
oejhiunynaah gqjshoejhufufnup,hugqhsjrnjzjqhuyyhoejhfnsf tpougfjphxa
oejhmxpnonxgkhRjschpxxghTuscuhMenyntxgxrguheuqhjpouiynpejqhejshfy i,hpx
oxhpuc,h gqjshoejhufufnup,hugqhoejsjhnohzup,hnghoenphfy i,hfxgpnpongb
xahoejhiunynaa’phznaj,hoejhrnyyubjhjyqjs,hugqhoejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjsl,
oeuohoejhqnaanf yonjphxahjvnpojgfjhzjsjhbsuq uyychptxxoejqhuzuc,hugqhng
uhzjjl’phontjhjrjscoengbhufo uyycheuqhfxtjhsx gqkhOejhsxxahzuphtjgqjq,
uhlnofejghtunqhzuphax gq—uhfsxgchxahoejhrnyyubjhjyqjs’p—ejgphzjsj
ix beo,hoejhfxzphijbughbnrngbhtnyl,hoejhbusqjghejqbjhzuphpoxmmjqh m
znoehpouljp,hoejhfusmjgojshtuqjhuhtugbyj,hexxlphzjsjhm ohnghoej
f mixusqp,hugqhoejchfjupjqhoxhi spohxmjghpmxgougjx pyc,hugqhug
nsxgngb-ixusqhfxrjsjqhznoehustchfyxoehzuphmyufjqhufsxpphasxthoejhusthxa
uhfeunshoxhoejhfejpohxahqsuzjsp,hugqhoejsjhzuphuhptjyyhxahayuonsxgphng
oejhtunqp’hsxxtk

“. pohpjj,hgxz,hugqhcx hzjsjhw nojhnghqjpmuns,”hpunqhTuscu
Menyntxgxrgu,hmxngongbhoxhoejhnsxgngb-ixusqkhOejchjrjghsnbbjqh mhu
iuoengb-pejqhxahposuzhe sqyjpkhYnychijbughoxhiuoej,hugqhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhijbughoxhsjuyndj,hnahxgychnghmuso,hejshjvmjfouonxgp,hna
gxohxahuhmjufja y,huohyjupohxahuhfxtaxsouiyj,hynajhnghoejhfx gosck
Mjufja yhznoehpnvhfenyqsjghQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhfx yqhgxohijkhXgjhzx yq
auyyhnyy,hugxoejshtnbeohjupnychijfxtjhpx,huhoensqhzx yqhijhznoex o
pxtjoengbhgjfjppusc,huhax soehzx yqhpexzhpctmoxtphxahuhiuqhqnpmxpnonxg,
ugqhpxhxgkhSusjhngqjjqhzjsjhoejhisnjahmjsnxqphxahmjufjkhI ohoejpjhfusjp
ugqhugvnjonjphzjsjhaxshQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoejhpxyjheummngjpphmxppniyjk
Euqhnohgxohijjghaxshoejt,hpejhzx yqheurjhijjghyjaohuyxgjhoxhisxxqhxrjs
ejshe piugqhzexhqnqhgxohyxrjhejskhUgqhijpnqjp,heusqhoex behnohzuphaxs
oejhtxoejshoxhijushoejhqsjuqhxahnyygjpp,hoejhnyygjppjphoejtpjyrjp,hugq
oejhbsnjahxahpjjngbhpnbgphxahjrnyhmsxmjgpnonjphnghejshfenyqsjg—oej
fenyqsjghoejtpjyrjphzjsjhjrjghgxzhsjmucngbhejshnghptuyyh.xcphaxshejs
p aajsngbpkhOexpjh.xcphzjsjhpxhptuyyhoeuohoejchmuppjqh ggxonfjq,hynlj
bxyqhnghpugq,hugqhuohiuqhtxtjgophpejhfx yqhpjjhgxoengbhi ohoejhmung,
gxoengbhi ohpugq;hi ohoejsjhzjsjhbxxqhtxtjgophoxxhzejghpejhpuzhgxoengb
i ohoejh.xc,hgxoengbhi ohbxyqk

Gxzhnghoejhpxyno qjhxahoejhfx gosc,hpejhijbughoxhijhtxsjhugqhtxsj
asjw jgoychuzusjhxahoexpjh.xcpkhXaojg,hyxxlngbhuohoejt,hpejhzx yqhtulj
jrjschmxppniyjhjaaxsohoxhmjsp uqjhejspjyahoeuohpejhzuphtnpouljg,hoeuo
pejhuphuhtxoejshzuphmusonuyhoxhejshfenyqsjgkhUyyhoejhputj,hpejhfx yq
gxohejymhpucngbhoxhejspjyahoeuohpejheuqhfeustngbhfenyqsjg,huyyhpnvhxa
oejthnghqnaajsjgohzucp,hi ohuhpjohxahfenyqsjghp fehuphnphgxohxaojghox
ijhtjohznoe,hugqhpejhzupheummchnghoejt,hugqhmsx qhxahoejtk


Feumojsh8

OxzusqphoejhjgqhxahTuc,hzejghjrjscoengbheuqhijjghtxsjhxshyjpp
puonpaufoxsnychussugbjq,hpejhsjfjnrjqhejshe piugq’phugpzjshoxhejs
fxtmyungophxahoejhqnpxsbugndjqhpouojhxahoengbphnghoejhfx gosckhEjhzsxoj
ijbbngbhejshaxsbnrjgjpphaxshgxoheurngbhoex beohxahjrjscoengbhijaxsj,
ugqhmsxtnpjqhoxhfxtjhqxzghuohoejhanspohfeugfjkhOenphfeugfjhqnqhgxo
msjpjgohnopjya,hugqhonyyhoejhijbnggngbhxah. gjhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu
poucjqhuyxgjhnghoejhfx gosck

XghoejhP gquchnghPokhMjojs’phzjjlhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqsxrjhoxhtupphaxs
uyyhejshfenyqsjghoxhouljhoejhpufsutjgokhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhnghejs
ngontuoj,hmenyxpxmenfuyhouylphznoehejshpnpojs,hejshtxoejs,hugqhejs
asnjgqphrjschxaojghupoxgnpejqhoejthichoejhasjjqxthxahejshrnjzphng
sjbusqhoxhsjynbnxgkhPejheuqhuhposugbjhsjynbnxghxahosugptnbsuonxghxa
px yphuyyhejshxzg,hnghzenfehpejheuqhansthaunoe,hosx iyngbhejspjya
ynooyjhuix ohoejhqxbtuphxahoejhFe sfekhI ohnghejshautnychpejhzuphposnfo
nghfusscngbhx ohuyyhoeuohzuphsjw nsjqhichoejhFe sfe—ugqhgxohtjsjychng
xsqjshoxhpjohughjvutmyj,hi ohznoehuyyhejshejusohnghnokhOejhaufohoeuo
oejhfenyqsjgheuqhgxohijjghuohoejhpufsutjgohaxshgjusychuhcjushzxssnjq
ejshjvosjtjyc,hugqhznoehoejha yyhummsxruyhugqhpctmuoechxahTuscu
Menyntxgxrguhpejhqjfnqjqhoeuohoenphpex yqhouljhmyufjhgxzhnghoejhp ttjsk

Axshpjrjsuyhqucphijaxsj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphi pnychqjynijsuongbhxg
exzhoxhqsjpphuyyhoejhfenyqsjgkhAsxflphzjsjhtuqjhxshuyojsjqhugqhzupejq,
pjutphugqhayx gfjphzjsjhyjohx o,hi ooxgphzjsjhpjzghxg,hugqhsniixgphbxo
sjuqckhXgjhqsjpp,hOugcu’p,hzenfehoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjppheuqh gqjsouljg,
fxpohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguht fehyxpphxahojtmjskhOejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpphng
uyojsngbhnoheuqhtuqjhoejhpjutphnghoejhzsxgbhmyufj,heuqhouljgh mhoej
pyjjrjphoxxht fe,hugqhuyoxbjoejshpmxnyohoejhqsjppkhNohzuphpxhgussxzhxg
Ougcu’phpex yqjsphoeuohnohzuphw nojhmunga yhoxhyxxlhuohejskhI ohTuscu
Menyntxgxrguheuqhoejheummchoex beohxahm oongbhnghb ppjop,hugqhuqqngbhu
ynooyjhpex yqjs-fumjkhOejhqsjpphzuphpjohsnbeo,hi ohoejsjhzuphgjusychu
w ussjyhznoehoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjppkhXghoejhtxsgngb,hexzjrjs,huyyhzup
eummnychussugbjq,hugqhoxzusqphojghx’fyxfl—oejhontjhuohzenfehoejcheuq
upljqhoejhmsnjpohoxhzunohaxshoejthaxshoejhtupp—oejhfenyqsjghnghoejns
gjzhqsjppjp,hznoehijutngbhaufjp,hpoxxqhxghoejhpojmhijaxsjhoejhfussnubj
zunongbhaxshoejnshtxoejsk

Oxhoejhfussnubj,hngpojuqhxahoejhsjponrjhSurjg,hoejcheuqheusgjppjq,
oeuglphoxhoejhsjmsjpjgouonxgphxahTuscuhMenyntxgxrgu,hoejhiunynaa’p
exspj,hIsxzgnj,hugqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hqjyucjqhichugvnjochxrjshejshxzg
uoonsj,hfutjhx ohugqhbxohng,hqsjppjqhnghuhzenojht pynghbxzgk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhqxgjhejsheuns,hugqhqsjppjqhznoehfusjhugq
jvfnojtjgokhNghoejhxyqhqucphpejheuqhqsjppjqhaxshejshxzghpuljhoxhyxxl
msjoochugqhijhuqtnsjqkhYuojshxg,huphpejhbxohxyqjs,hqsjpphijfutjhtxsj
ugqhtxsjhqnpoupoja yhoxhejskhPejhpuzhoeuohpejhzuphyxpngbhejshbxxq
yxxlpkhI ohgxzhpejhijbughoxhajjyhmyjup sjhugqhngojsjpohnghqsjpphubungk
Gxzhpejhqnqhgxohqsjpphaxshejshxzghpulj,hgxohaxshoejhpuljhxahejshxzg
iju oc,hi ohpntmychoeuohuphoejhtxoejshxahoexpjhjvw npnojhfsjuo sjphpej
tnbeohgxohpmxnyhoejhbjgjsuyhjaajfokhUgqhyxxlngbhuohejspjyahaxshoejhyupo
ontjhnghoejhyxxlngb-byupphpejhzuphpuonpanjqhznoehejspjyakhPejhyxxljq
gnfjkhGxohgnfjhuphpejhzx yqheurjhznpejqhoxhyxxlhgnfjhnghxyqhqucphuohu
iuyy,hi ohgnfjhaxshoejhxi.jfohzenfehpejhgxzheuqhnghrnjzk

Nghoejhfe sfehoejsjhzuphgxhxgjhi ohoejhmjupugop,hoejhpjsrugophugqhoejns
zxtjg-axylkhI ohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpuz,hxshaugfnjqhpejhpuz,hoej
pjgpuonxghmsxq fjqhichejshfenyqsjghugqhejskhOejhfenyqsjghzjsjhgxohxgyc
iju ona yhoxhyxxlhuohnghoejnshptusohynooyjhqsjppjp,hi ohoejchzjsj
feustngbhnghoejhzuchoejchijeurjqkhUynxpeu,hnohnphos j,hqnqhgxohpougq
w nojhfxssjfoyc;hejhljmoho sgngbhsx gq,hoscngbhoxhyxxlhuohenphynooyj
.ufljohasxthijengq;hi ohuyyhoejhputjhejhzuphzxgqjsa yychpzjjokhOugcu
ijeurjqhynljhuhbsxzg- mhmjspxg,hugqhyxxljqhuaojshoejhynooyjhxgjpkhUgq
oejhptuyyjpo,hYnyc,hzuphijznofengbhnghejshguïrjhupoxgnpetjgohuo
jrjscoengb,hugqhnohzuphqnaanf yohgxohoxhptnyjhzejg,huaojshoulngbhoej
pufsutjgo,hpejhpunqhnghJgbynpe,h“Myjupj,hpxtjhtxsjk”

Xghoejhzuchextjhoejhfenyqsjghajyohoeuohpxtjoengbhpxyjtgheuqheummjgjq,
ugqhzjsjhrjschpjquojk

Jrjscoengbhzjgoheummnychuohextjhoxx;hi ohuohy gfehBsnpeuhijbug
zenpoyngb,hugq,hzeuohzuphzxspj,hzuphqnpxijqnjgohoxhoejhJgbynpe
bxrjsgjpp,hugqhzuphaxsinqqjghoxheurjhugchousokhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzx yq
gxoheurjhyjohoengbphbxhpxhaushxghp fehuhqucheuqhpejhijjghmsjpjgo;hi o
pejheuqhoxhp mmxsohoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpp’phu oexsnoc,hugqhpejh mejyq
ejshqjfnpnxghoeuohBsnpeuhpex yqheurjhgxhousokhOenphsuoejshpmxnyjqhoej
bjgjsuyhbxxqhe txskhBsnpeuhfsnjq,hqjfyusngbhoeuohGnlxyngluheuqhzenpoyjq
oxx,hugqhejhzuphgxohm gnpejq,hugqhoeuohejhzupg’ohfscngbhaxshoejhouso—ej
qnqg’ohfusj—i ohuohijngbh g. poychosjuojqkhOenphzuphsjuyychoxxhosubnf,
ugqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhtuqjh mhejshtngqhoxhmjsp uqjhoejhJgbynpe
bxrjsgjpphoxhaxsbnrjhBsnpeu,hugqhpejhzjgohoxhpmjulhoxhejskhI ohxghoej
zuc,huphpejhmuppjqhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hpejhijejyqhuhpfjgj,hanyyngbhejs
ejusohznoehp fehmyjup sjhoeuohoejhojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjp,hugqhpej
axsburjhoejhqjyngw jgohejspjyak

Oejhf ymsnohzuphpnoongbhuohoejhzngqxzhnghoejhfxsgjshxahoej
qsuzngb-sxxt;hijpnqjhenthzuphpougqngbhOugcuhznoehuhmyuojkhXghoej
msjojvohxahzugongbhoxhbnrjhpxtjhqnggjshoxhejshqxyyp,hpejheuqhupljqhoej
bxrjsgjpp’phmjstnppnxghoxhouljhejshpeusjhxahousohoxhoejhg spjsc,hugq
euqhouljghnohngpojuqhoxhejshisxoejskhZenyjhponyyhzjjmngbhxrjshoej
ng. ponfjhxahenphm gnpetjgo,hejhzuphjuongbhoejhouso,hugqhljmohpucngb
oesx behenphpxip,h“Juohcx spjya;hyjo’phjuohnohoxbjoejshkkkhoxbjoejsk”

Ougcuheuqhuohanspohijjgh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahejshmnochaxshBsnpeu,
oejghxahuhpjgpjhxahejshgxiyjhufonxg,hugqhojusphzjsjhpougqngbhnghejs
jcjphoxx;hi ohpejhqnqhgxohsja pj,hugqhuojhejshpeusjk

Xghfuofengbhpnbeohxahoejnshtxoejshoejchzjsjhqnptucjq,hi o,hyxxlngbhngox
ejshaufj,hoejchpuzhoejchzjsjhgxohqxngbhzsxgbkhOejchi spohx ohyu bengb,
ugq,hznoehoejnshtx oepha yyhxahouso,hoejchijbughznmngbhoejnshptnyngb
ynmphznoehoejnsheugqp,hugqhptjusngbhoejnshsuqnugohaufjphuyyhxrjshznoe
ojusphugqh.utk

“Tjsfc!hCx shgjzhzenojhasxfl!hOugcu!hBsnpeu!”hpunqhoejnshtxoejs,hoscngb
oxhpurjhoejhasxfl,hi ohznoehojusphnghejshjcjp,hptnyngbhuhiynppa y,
sumo sx phptnyjk

Oejhgjzhasxflphzjsjhouljghxaa,hugqhxsqjsphzjsjhbnrjghaxshoejhynooyj
bnsyphoxheurjhoejnshiyx pjphm ohxg,hugqhoejhixcphoejnshxyqh.ufljop,hugq
oejhzubxgjoojhoxhijheusgjppjq;hznoehIsxzgnj,hoxhoejhiunynaa’p
uggxcugfj,hubunghnghoejhpeuaop,hoxhqsnrjhx ohaxsht pesxxthmnflngbhugq
iuoengbkhUhsxushxahqjynbeojqhpesnjlphusxpjhnghoejhg spjsc,hugqhgjrjs
fjupjqhonyyhoejcheuqhpjohxaahaxshoejhiuoengb-myufjk

Oejchbuoejsjqhuhzexyjhiupljoa yhxaht pesxxtp;hjrjghYnychax gqhuhinsfe
t pesxxtkhNoheuqhuyzucpheummjgjqhijaxsjhoeuohTnpphExxyjhax gqhoejthugq
mxngojqhoejthx ohoxhejs;hi ohoenphontjhpejhax gqhuhinbhxgjhw nojhxa
ejspjya,hugqhoejsjhzuphuhbjgjsuyhpfsjuthxahqjynbeo,h“Ynycheuphax gqhu
t pesxxt!”

Oejghoejchsjufejqhoejhsnrjs,hm ohoejhexspjph gqjshoejhinsfehosjjp,hugq
zjgohoxhoejhiuoengb-myufjkhOejhfxufetug,hOjsjgoc,haupojgjqhoejhexspjp,
zexhljmohzenplngbhuzuchoejhaynjp,hoxhuhosjj,hugq,hosjuqngbhqxzghoej
bsupp,hyuchqxzghnghoejhpeuqjhxahuhinsfehugqhptxljqhenphpeub,hzenyjhoej
gjrjs-fjupngbhpesnjlphxahqjynbeohxahoejhfenyqsjghayxuojqhufsxpphoxhent
asxthoejhiuoengb-myufjk

Oex behnohzupheusqhzxslhoxhyxxlhuaojshuyyhoejhfenyqsjghugqhsjposung
oejnshznyqhmsuglp,hoex behnohzuphqnaanf yohoxxhoxhljjmhnghxgj’phejuq
ugqhgxohtnvh mhuyyhoejhpoxflngbp,hynooyjhisjjfejp,hugqhpexjphaxshoej
qnaajsjgohyjbp,hugqhoxh gqxhugqhoxhqxh mhubunghuyyhoejhoumjphugq
i ooxgp,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hzexheuqhuyzucphynljqhiuoengbhejspjya,hugq
ijynjrjqhnohoxhijhrjschbxxqhaxshoejhfenyqsjg,hjg.xcjqhgxoengbhpxht fe
uphiuoengbhznoehuyyhoejhfenyqsjgkhOxhbxhxrjshuyyhoexpjhauohynooyjhyjbp,
m yyngbhxghoejnshpoxflngbp,hoxhouljhnghejshustphugqhqnmhoexpjhynooyj
guljqhixqnjp,hugqhoxhejushoejnshpfsjutphxahqjynbeohugqhuyust,hoxhpjj
oejhisjuoeyjpphaufjphznoehznqj-xmjg,hpfusjq,hugqheummchjcjphxahuyyhejs
pmyupengbhfejs ip,hzuphuhbsjuohmyjup sjhoxhejsk

Zejgheuyahoejhfenyqsjgheuqhijjghqsjppjq,hpxtjhmjupugohzxtjghnghexynquc
qsjpp,hx ohmnflngbhejsip,hfutjh mhoxhoejhiuoengb-pejqhugqhpoxmmjq
pecyckhTuscuhMenyntxgxrguhfuyyjqhxgjhxahoejthugqheugqjqhejshuhpejjohugq
uhpensohoeuoheuqhqsxmmjqhngoxhoejhzuojshaxshejshoxhqschoejt,hugqhQuscu
UyjvugqsxrguhijbughoxhouylhoxhoejhzxtjgkhUohanspohoejchyu bejqhijengq
oejnsheugqphugqhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhejshw jponxgp,hi ohpxxghoejchbsjz
ixyqjshugqhijbughoxhouyl,hznggngbhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phejusohuohxgfjhic
oejhbjg ngjhuqtnsuonxghxahoejhfenyqsjghoeuohoejchpexzjqk

“Tc,hzeuohuhiju oc!huphzenojhuphp bus,”hpunqhxgj,huqtnsngbhOugnofelu,
ugqhpeulngbhejshejuq;h“i ohoengkkkk”

“Cjp,hpejheuphijjghnyyk”

“Ugqhpxhoejc’rjhijjghiuoengbhcx hoxx,”hpunqhugxoejshoxhoejhiuick

“Gx;hej’phxgychoesjjhtxgoephxyq,”hugpzjsjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhznoe
msnqjk

“Cx hqxg’ohpuchpx!”

“Ugqheurjhcx hugchfenyqsjg?”

“N’rjheuqhax s;hN’rjhozxhynrngb—uhixchugqhuhbnsykhNhzjugjqhejshyupo
fusgnruyk”

“Exzhxyqhnphpej?”

“Zec,hozxhcjusphxyqk”

“Zechqnqhcx hg spjhejshpxhyxgb?”

“No’phx shf poxt;haxshoesjjhaupopkkkk”

UgqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghijfutjhtxpohngojsjpongbhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk
Zeuohpxsohxahontjhqnqhpejheurj?hZeuohzuphoejhtuoojshznoehoejhixc?hZejsj
zuphejshe piugq?hQnqhnohxaojgheummjg?

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhajyohqnpngfyngjqhoxhyjurjhoejhmjupugohzxtjg,hpx
ngojsjpongbhoxhejshzuphoejnshfxgrjspuonxg,hpxhfxtmyjojychnqjgonfuyhzjsj
uyyhoejnshngojsjpopkhZeuohmyjupjqhejshtxpohxahuyyhzuphoeuohpejhpuz
fyjusychzeuohuyyhoejhzxtjghuqtnsjqhtxsjhoeughugcoengbhzuphejsheurngbhpx
tugchfenyqsjg,hugqhp fehangjhxgjpkhOejhmjupugohzxtjghjrjghtuqjhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhyu be,hugqhxaajgqjqhoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpp,hijfu pjhpejhzup
oejhfu pjhxahoejhyu beojshpejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqkhXgjhxahoejhcx gbjs
zxtjghljmohpousngbhuohoejhJgbynpezxtug,hzexhzuphqsjppngbhuaojshuyyhoej
sjpo,hugqhzejghpejhm ohxghejshoensqhmjoonfxuohpejhfx yqhgxohsjasung
asxthoejhsjtusl,h“Tc,hpejhljjmphm oongbhxghugqhm oongbhxg,hugqhpej’yy
gjrjsheurjhqxgj!”hpejhpunq,hugqhoejchuyyhzjgohxaahngoxhsxuspk


Feumojsh9

Xghoejhqsnrjhextj,huphQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hznoehuyyhejshfenyqsjghsx gq
ejs,hoejnshejuqphponyyhzjohasxthoejnshiuoe,hugqhuhljsfenjahonjqhxrjs
ejshxzghejuq,hzuphbjoongbhgjushoejhex pj,hoejhfxufetughpunq,h“Oejsj’p
pxtjhbjgoyjtughfxtngb:hoejhtupojshxahMxlsxrplxj,hNhqxhijynjrjk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhmjjmjqhx ohnghasxgo,hugqhzuphqjynbeojqhzejghpej
sjfxbgndjqhnghoejhbsucheuohugqhbsuchfxuohoejhautnynushanb sjhxahYjrng
zuylngbhoxhtjjohoejtkhPejhzuphbyuqhoxhpjjhenthuohugchontj,hi ohuohoenp
txtjgohpejhzuphpmjfnuyychbyuqhejhpex yqhpjjhejshnghuyyhejshbyxsckhGx
xgjhzuphijoojshuiyjhoxhummsjfnuojhejshbsugqj shoeughYjrngk

Pjjngbhejs,hejhax gqhentpjyahaufjhoxhaufjhznoehxgjhxahoejhmnfo sjphxa
enphqucqsjuthxahautnychynajk

“Cx ’sjhynljhuhejghznoehcx shfenfljgp,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk”

“Ue,hexzhbyuqhNhuthoxhpjjhcx !”hpejhpunq,hexyqngbhx ohejsheugqhoxhentk

“Byuqhoxhpjjhtj,hi ohcx hqnqg’ohyjohtjhlgxzkhTchisxoejs’phpoucngbhznoe
tjkhNhbxohuhgxojhasxthPonruhoeuohcx hzjsjhejsjk”

“AsxthPonru?”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhupljqhznoehp smsnpjk

“Cjp;hejhzsnojphoeuohcx husjhejsj,hugqhoeuohejhoenglphcx htnbeohuyyxz
tjhoxhijhxah pjhoxhcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhuphejhpunqhnohejhijfutj
p qqjgychjtiussuppjq,hugq,hpoxmmngbhuis moyc,hejhzuyljqhxghnghpnyjgfj
ichoejhzubxgjooj,hpgummngbhxaahoejhi qphxahoejhyntjhosjjphugqhgniiyngb
oejtkhEjhzuphjtiussuppjqhoesx behuhpjgpjhoeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzx yq
ijhuggxcjqhichsjfjnrngbhasxthughx opnqjshejymhoeuohpex yqhichsnbeop
eurjhfxtjhasxthejshxzghe piugqkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhfjsoungychqnqhgxo
ynljhoenphynooyjhzuchxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phxahaxnpongbhenphqxtjponf
q onjphxghxoejspkhUgqhpejhzuphuohxgfjhuzusjhoeuohYjrnghzuphuzusjhxa
oenpkhNohzuph. pohaxshoenphangjgjpphxahmjsfjmonxg,haxshoenphqjynfufc,
oeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhynljqhYjrngk

“Nhlgxz,hxahfx spj,”hpunqhYjrng,h“oeuohoeuohpntmychtjugphoeuohcx hzx yq
ynljhoxhpjjhtj,hugqhN’thjvfjjqngbychbyuqkhOex behNhfughaugfchoeuo,h pjq
oxhoxzghex pjljjmngbhuphcx husj,hcx ht pohajjyhnghoejhznyqphejsj,hugq
nahoejsj’phugcoengbhzugojq,hN’thuyoxbjoejshuohcx shqnpmxpuyk”

“Xe,hgx!”hpunqhQxyyckh“Uohanspohoengbphzjsjhsuoejsh gfxtaxsouiyj,hi o
gxzhzj’rjhpjooyjqhjrjscoengbhfumnouyyc—oeuglphoxhtchxyqhg spj,”hpej
punq,hngqnfuongbhTuscuhMenyntxgxrgu,hzex,hpjjngbhoeuohoejchzjsj
pmjulngbhxahejs,hptnyjqhisnbeoychugqhfxsqnuyychoxhYjrngkhPejhlgjzhent,
ugqhlgjzhoeuohejhzx yqhijhuhbxxqhtuofehaxshejshcx gbhyuqc,hugqhzuphrjsc
ljjghoxhpjjhoejhtuoojshpjooyjqk

“Zxg’ohcx hbjohng,hpns,hzj’yyhtuljhsxxthoenphpnqj!”hpejhpunqhoxhentk

“Gx,hN’yyhzuylkhFenyqsjg,hzex’qhynljhoxhsufjhoejhexspjphznoehtj?”hOej
fenyqsjghlgjzhYjrnghrjschynooyj,hugqhfx yqhgxohsjtjtijshzejghoejcheuq
pjjghent,hi ohoejchjvmjsnjgfjqhnghsjbusqhoxhenthgxgjhxahoeuohposugbj
ajjyngbhxahpecgjpphugqhexponynochzenfehfenyqsjghpxhxaojghjvmjsnjgfj
oxzusqphecmxfsnonfuy,hbsxzg- mhmjxmyj,hugqhaxshzenfehoejchusjhpxhxaojg
ugqhtnpjsuiychm gnpejqkhEcmxfsnpchnghugcoengbhzeuojrjshtuchqjfjnrjhoej
fyjrjsjpohugqhtxpohmjgjosuongbhtug,hi ohoejhyjupohznqj-uzuljhxa
fenyqsjghsjfxbgndjphno,hugqhnphsjrxyojqhichno,hexzjrjshngbjgnx pychno
tuchijhqnpb npjqkhZeuojrjshau yophYjrngheuq,hoejsjhzuphgxohuhosufjhxa
ecmxfsnpchnghent,hugqhpxhoejhfenyqsjghpexzjqhenthoejhputjhasnjgqyngjpp
oeuohoejchpuzhnghoejnshtxoejs’phaufjkhXghenphngrnouonxg,hoejhozxhjyqjs
xgjphuohxgfjh. tmjqhx ohoxhenthugqhsughznoehenthuphpntmychuphoejchzx yq
eurjhqxgjhznoehoejnshg spjhxshTnpphExxyjhxshoejnshtxoejskhYnyc,hoxx,
ijbughijbbngbhoxhbxhoxhent,hugqhejshtxoejsheugqjqhejshoxhent;hejhpuo
ejshxghenphpex yqjshugqhsughuyxgbhznoehejsk

“Qxg’ohijhuasunq,hqxg’ohijhuasunq,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu!”hejhpunq,
ptnyngbhbxxq-e txsjqychoxhoejhtxoejs;h“oejsj’phgxhfeugfjhxahtche songb
xshqsxmmngbhejsk”

Ugq,hyxxlngbhuohenphposxgb,hubnyj,huppnq x pychfusja yhugqhgjjqyjppyc
zuschtxrjtjgop,hoejhtxoejshajyohejshtngqhuohsjpo,hugqhptnyjqhbunychugq
ummsxrngbychuphpejhzuofejqhentk

Ejsj,hnghoejhfx gosc,hznoehfenyqsjg,hugqhznoehQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hznoe
zexthejhzuphnghpctmuoec,hYjrnghzuphnghuhtxxqhgxohngasjw jgohznoehent,
xahfenyqynljhynbeo-ejusojqgjpphoeuohpejhmusonf yusychynljqhnghentkhUp
ejhsughznoehoejhfenyqsjg,hejhou beohoejthbctguponfhajuop,hpjohTnpp
Exxyjhyu bengbhznoehenphw jjshJgbynpehuffjgo,hugqhouyljqhoxhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhxahenphm sp nophnghoejhfx gosck

Uaojshqnggjs,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hpnoongbhuyxgjhznoehenthxghoej
iuyfxgc,hijbughoxhpmjulhxahLnoock

“Cx hlgxz,hLnooc’phfxtngbhejsj,hugqhnphbxngbhoxhpmjgqhoejhp ttjshznoe
tjk”

“Sjuyyc,”hejhpunq,hay pengb,hugqhuohxgfj,hoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxg,
ejhpunq:h“OejghN’yyhpjgqhcx hozxhfxzp,hpeuyyhN?hNahcx hngpnpohxghuhinyy
cx hpeuyyhmuchtjhanrjhsx iyjphuhtxgoe;hi ohno’phsjuyychoxxhiuqhxahcx k”

“Gx,hoeuglhcx khZjhfughtugubjhrjschzjyyhgxzk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hoejg,hN’yyheurjhuhyxxlhuohcx shfxzp,hugqhnahcx ’yyhuyyxzhtj,
N’yyhbnrjhqnsjfonxgphuix ohoejnshaxxqkhJrjscoengbhqjmjgqphxghoejns
axxqk”

UgqhYjrng,hoxho sghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hjvmyungjqhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu
oejhoejxschxahfxz-ljjmngb,hiupjqhxghoejhmsngfnmyjhoeuohoejhfxzhnp
pntmychuhtufengjhaxshoejhosugpaxstuonxghxahaxxqhngoxhtnyl,hugqhpxhxgk

Ejhouyljqhxahoenp,hugqhmuppnxguojychyxgbjqhoxhejushtxsjhxahLnooc,hugq,
uohoejhputjhontj,hzuphuasunqhxahejusngbhnokhEjhqsjuqjqhoejhisjulngbh m
xahoejhngzusqhmjufjhejheuqhbungjqhznoehp fehjaaxsok

“Cjp,hi ohponyyhuyyhoenpheuphoxhijhyxxljqhuaojs,hugqhzexhnphoejsjhox
yxxlhuaojshno?”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhsjpmxgqjq,hznoex ohngojsjpok

Pejheuqhichgxzhbxohejshex pjexyqhtuoojsphpxhpuonpaufoxsnychussugbjq,
oeuglphoxhTuscuhMenyntxgxrgu,hoeuohpejhzuphqnpngfyngjqhoxhtuljhugc
feugbjhnghoejt;hijpnqjp,hpejheuqhgxhaunoehnghYjrng’phlgxzyjqbjhxa
austngbkhBjgjsuyhmsngfnmyjp,huphoxhoejhfxzhijngbhuhtufengjhaxshoej
msxq fonxghxahtnyl,hpejhyxxljqhxghznoehp pmnfnxgkhNohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuo
p fehmsngfnmyjphfx yqhxgychijhuhengqsugfjhnghausthtugubjtjgokhNohuyy
pjjtjqhoxhejshuhaushpntmyjshtuoojs:huyyhoeuohzuphgjjqjq,huphTuscu
Menyntxgxrguheuqhjvmyungjq,hzuphoxhbnrjhIsngqyjhugqhZenojisjupohtxsj
axxqhugqhqsngl,hugqhgxohoxhyjohoejhfxxlhfusschuyyhoejhlnofejghpyxmphox
oejhyu gqschtunq’phfxzkhOeuohzuphfyjuskhI ohbjgjsuyhmsxmxpnonxgphuphox
ajjqngbhxghtjuyhugqhxghbsupphzjsjhqx ioa yhugqhxipf sjkhUgq,hzeuohzup
txpohntmxsougo,hpejhzugojqhoxhouylhuix ohLnoock


Feumojsh10

“Lnoochzsnojphoxhtjhoeuohoejsj’phgxoengbhpejhyxgbphaxshpxht fehuphw njo
ugqhpxyno qj,”hQxyychpunqhuaojshoejhpnyjgfjhoeuoheuqhaxyyxzjqk

“Ugqhexzhnphpej—ijoojs?”hYjrnghupljqhnghubnouonxgk

“OeuglhBxq,hpej’phw nojhzjyyhubungkhNhgjrjshijynjrjqhejshy gbphzjsj
uaajfojqk”

“Xe,hN’thrjschbyuq!”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhQxyychaugfnjqhpejhpuzhpxtjoengb
ox fengb,hejymyjpp,hnghenphaufjhuphejhpunqhoenphugqhyxxljqhpnyjgoyc
ngoxhejshaufjk

“Yjohtjhuplhcx ,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,
ptnyngbhejshlngqychugqhsuoejshtxflngbhptnyj,h“zechnphnohcx husjhugbsc
znoehLnooc?”

“N?hN’thgxohugbschznoehejs,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Cjp,hcx husjhugbsckhZechzuphnohcx hqnqhgxohfxtjhoxhpjjh phgxshoejt
zejghcx hzjsjhnghTxpfxz?”

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hejhpunq,hiy pengbh mhoxhoejhsxxophxahenpheuns,h“N
zxgqjshsjuyychoeuohznoehcx shlngqhejusohcx hqxg’ohajjyhoenpkhExzhnohnp
cx hajjyhgxhmnochaxshtj,hnahgxoengbhjypj,hzejghcx hlgxzkkkk”

“ZeuohqxhNhlgxz?”

“Cx hlgxzhNhtuqjhughxaajshugqhoeuohNhzuphsja pjq,”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhuyy
oejhojgqjsgjpphejheuqhijjghajjyngbhaxshLnoochuhtng ojhijaxsjhzup
sjmyufjqhichuhajjyngbhxahugbjshaxshoejhpynbeohejheuqhp aajsjqk

“Zeuohtuljphcx hp mmxpjhNhlgxz?”

“Ijfu pjhjrjscixqchlgxzphnokkkk”

“Oeuo’ph. pohzejsjhcx husjhtnpouljg;hNhqnqhgxohlgxzhno,hoex behNheuq
b jppjqhnohzuphpxk”

“Zjyy,hgxzhcx hlgxzhnok”

“UyyhNhlgjzhzuphoeuohpxtjoengbheuqheummjgjqhoeuohtuqjhejshqsjuqa yyc
tnpjsuiyj,hugqhoeuohpejhijbbjqhtjhgjrjshoxhpmjulhxahnokhUgqhnahpej
zx yqhgxohojyyhtj,hpejhzx yqhfjsoungychgxohpmjulhxahnohoxhugcxgjhjypjk
I ohzeuohqnqhmupphijozjjghcx ?hOjyyhtjk”

“Nheurjhoxyqhcx k”

“Zejghzuphno?”

“ZejghNhzuphuohoejnshex pjhoejhyupohontjk”

“Qxhcx hlgxzhoeuo,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,h“Nhuthuza yyc,huza yyc
pxsschaxshejskhCx hp aajshxgychasxthmsnqjkkkk”

“Mjseumphpx,”hpunqhYjrng,h“i okkkk”

Pejhngojss mojqhentk

“I ohpej,hmxxshbnsyhkkkhNhuthuza yyc,huza yychpxsschaxshejskhGxzhNhpjj
nohuyyk”

“Zjyy,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hcx ht pohjvf pjhtj,”hejhpunq,hbjoongbh mk
“Bxxq-icj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,honyyhzjhtjjohubungk”

“Gx,hzunohuhtng oj,”hpejhpunq,hfy ofengbhenthichoejhpyjjrjkh“Zunohu
tng oj,hpnohqxzgk”

“Myjupj,hmyjupj,hqxg’ohyjoh phouylhxahoenp,”hejhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzg,hugq
uohoejhputjhontjhajjyngbhsnpjh mhugqhponshznoenghenphejusohuhexmjhej
euqhijynjrjqhoxhijhi snjqk

“NahNhqnqhgxohynljhcx ,”hpejhpunq,hugqhojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjp;h“nahN
qnqhgxohlgxzhcx ,huphNhqxhlgxzhcx kkkk”

Oejhajjyngbhoeuoheuqhpjjtjqhqjuqhsjrnrjqhtxsjhugqhtxsj,hsxpjh mhugq
oxxlhmxppjppnxghxahYjrng’phejusok

“Cjp,hNh gqjspougqhnohuyyhgxz,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgukh“Cx hfug’o
 gqjspougqhno;haxshcx htjg,hzexhusjhasjjhugqhtuljhcx shxzghfexnfj,hno’p
uyzucphfyjushzexthcx hyxrjkhI ohuhbnsy’phnghuhmxpnonxghxahp pmjgpj,
znoehuyyhuhzxtug’phxshtunqjg’phtxqjpoc,huhbnsyhzexhpjjphcx htjghasxt
uaus,hzexhouljphjrjscoengbhxghos po,—uhbnsyhtucheurj,hugqhxaojgheup,
p fehuhajjyngbhoeuohpejhfuggxohojyyhzeuohoxhpuck”

“Cjp,hnahoejhejusohqxjphgxohpmjulkkkk”

“Gx,hoejhejusohqxjphpmjul;hi oh. pohfxgpnqjs:hcx htjgheurjhrnjzphuix o
uhbnsy,hcx hfxtjhoxhoejhex pj,hcx htuljhasnjgqp,hcx hfsnonfndj,hcx 
zunohoxhpjjhnahcx heurjhax gqhzeuohcx hyxrj,hugqhoejg,hzejghcx husj
p sjhcx hyxrjhejs,hcx htuljhughxaajskkkk”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phgxohw nojhnok”

“Ugczuchcx htuljhughxaajs,hzejghcx shyxrjhnphsnmjhxshzejghoejhiuyugfj
euphfxtmyjojycho sgjqhijozjjghoejhozxhcx husjhfexxpngbhasxtkhI ohuhbnsy
nphgxohupljqkhPejhnphjvmjfojqhoxhtuljhejshfexnfj,hugqhcjohpejhfuggxo
fexxpj,hpejhfughxgychugpzjsh‘cjp’hxsh‘gxk’”

“Cjp,hoxhfexxpjhijozjjghtjhugqhRsxgplc,”hoex beohYjrng,hugqhoejhqjuq
oengbhoeuoheuqhfxtjhoxhynajhznoenghenthqnjqhubung,hugqhxgychzjnbejqhxg
enphejusohugqhpjohnohufengbk

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hejhpunq,h“oeuo’phexzhxgjhfexxpjphuhgjzhqsjpphxs
pxtjhm sfeupjhxshxoejs,hgxohyxrjkhOejhfexnfjheuphijjghtuqj,hugqhpxht fe
oejhijoojskkkkhUgqhoejsjhfughijhgxhsjmjuongbhnok”

“Ue,hmsnqj,hmsnqj!”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,huphoex behqjpmnpngbhent
axshoejhiupjgjpphxahoenphajjyngbhnghfxtmusnpxghznoehoeuohxoejshajjyngb
zenfehxgychzxtjghlgxzkh“Uohoejhontjhzejghcx htuqjhLnoochughxaajshpej
zuph. pohnghuhmxpnonxghnghzenfehpejhfx yqhgxohugpzjskhPejhzuphnghqx iok
Qx iohijozjjghcx hugqhRsxgplckhEnthpejhzuphpjjngbhjrjschquc,hugqhcx 
pejheuqhgxohpjjghaxshuhyxgbhzenyjkhP mmxpngbhpejheuqhijjghxyqjshkkkhN,
axshngpougfj,hnghejshmyufjhfx yqheurjhajyohgxhqx iokhNhuyzucphqnpynljq
ent,hugqhpxhnoheupho sgjqhx ok”

YjrnghsjfuyyjqhLnooc’phugpzjskhPejheuqhpunq:h“_Gx,hoeuohfuggxohij_kkkk”

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hejhpunqhqscyc,h“Nhummsjfnuojhcx shfxganqjgfjhng
tj;hNhijynjrjhcx husjhtulngbhuhtnpouljkhI ohzejoejshNhuthsnbeohxs
zsxgb,hoeuohmsnqjhcx hpxhqjpmnpjhtuljphugchoex beohxahLuojsngu
Uyjvugqsxrguhx ohxahoejhw jponxghaxshtj,—cx h gqjspougq,h oojsychx ohxa
oejhw jponxgk”

“Nhznyyhxgychpuchxgjhoengbhtxsj:hcx hlgxzhoeuohNhuthpmjulngbhxahtc
pnpojs,hzexthNhyxrjhuphNhyxrjhtchxzghfenyqsjgkhNhqxg’ohpuchpejhfusjq
axshcx ,huyyhNhtjugohoxhpuchnphoeuohejshsja puyhuohoeuohtxtjgohmsxrjp
gxoengbk”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz!”hpunqhYjrng,h. tmngbh mkh“Nahcx hxgychlgjzhexzhcx husj
e songbhtjkhNo’ph. pohuphnahuhfenyqhxahcx sphzjsjhqjuq,hugqhoejchzjsj
oxhpuchoxhcx :hEjhzx yqheurjhijjghynljhoenphugqhynljhoeuo,hugqhejhtnbeo
eurjhynrjq,hugqhexzheummchcx hzx yqheurjhijjghnghentkhI ohej’phqjuq,
qjuq,hqjuq!kkk”

“Exzhuip sqhcx husj!”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hyxxlngbhznoehtx sga y
ojgqjsgjpphuohYjrng’phjvfnojtjgokh“Cjp,hNhpjjhnohuyyhtxsjhugqhtxsj
fyjusyc,”hpejhzjgohxght pngbyckh“Pxhcx hzxg’ohfxtjhoxhpjjh p,hoejg,
zejghLnooc’phejsj?”

“Gx,hNhpeug’ohfxtjkhXahfx spjhNhzxg’ohurxnqhtjjongbhLuojsngu
Uyjvugqsxrgu,hi ohuphaushuphNhfug,hNhznyyhoschoxhpurjhejshoejhuggxcugfj
xahtchmsjpjgfjk”

“Cx husjhrjsc,hrjschuip sq,”hsjmjuojqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hyxxlngbhznoe
ojgqjsgjpphngoxhenphaufjkh“Rjschzjyyhoejg,hyjohnohijhuphoex behzjheuq
gxohpmxljghxahoenpkhZeuoheurjhcx hfxtjhaxs,hOugcu?”hpejhpunqhnghAsjgfe
oxhoejhynooyjhbnsyhzexheuqhfxtjhngk

“Zejsj’phtchpmuqj,htuttu?”

“NhpmjulhAsjgfe,hugqhcx ht pohoxxk”

OejhynooyjhbnsyhosnjqhoxhpuchnohnghAsjgfe,hi ohfx yqhgxohsjtjtijshoej
Asjgfehaxshpmuqj;hoejhtxoejshmsxtmojqhejs,hugqhoejghoxyqhejshnghAsjgfe
zejsjhoxhyxxlhaxshoejhpmuqjkhUgqhoenphtuqjhuhqnpubsjjuiyjhntmsjppnxghxg
Yjrngk

JrjscoengbhnghQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phex pjhugqhfenyqsjghpos flhenthgxzhup
ichgxhtjugphpxhfeustngbhuphuhynooyjhzenyjhijaxsjkh“Ugqhzeuohqxjphpej
ouylhAsjgfehznoehoejhfenyqsjghaxs?”hejhoex beo;h“exzh gguo suyhugq
auypjhnohnp!hUgqhoejhfenyqsjghajjyhnohpx:hYjusgngbhAsjgfehugq
 gyjusgngbhpngfjsnoc,”hejhoex beohoxhentpjya,h guzusjhoeuohQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguheuqhoex beohuyyhoeuohxrjshozjgochontjphuysjuqc,hugqhcjo,
jrjghuohoejhfxpohxahpxtjhyxpphxahpngfjsnoc,hijynjrjqhnohgjfjppuschox
ojufehejshfenyqsjghAsjgfehnghoeuohzuck

“I ohzechusjhcx hbxngb?hQxhpouchuhynooyjk”

Yjrnghpoucjqhoxhoju;hi ohenphbxxq-e txsheuqhrugnpejq,hugqhejhajyohnyy
uohjupjk

Uaojshojuhejhzjgohx ohngoxhoejheuyyhoxhxsqjshenphexspjphoxhijhm ohng,
ugq,hzejghejhfutjhiufl,hejhax gqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhbsjuoychqnpo sijq,
znoehuhosx iyjqhaufj,hugqhojusphnghejshjcjpkhZenyjhYjrngheuqhijjg
x opnqj,hughngfnqjgoheuqhxff ssjqhzenfeheuqh oojsychpeuoojsjqhuyyhoej
eummngjpphpejheuqhijjghajjyngbhoeuohquc,hugqhejshmsnqjhnghejshfenyqsjgk
BsnpeuhugqhOugcuheuqhijjghanbeongbhxrjshuhiuyykhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,
ejusngbhuhpfsjuthnghoejhg spjsc,hsughnghugqhpuzhuhojssniyjhpnbeokhOugcu
zuphm yyngbhBsnpeu’pheuns,hzenyjhej,hznoehuhaufjhenqjx phznoehsubj,hzup
ijuongbhejshznoehenphanpophzejsjrjshejhfx yqhbjohuohejskhPxtjoengb
pgummjqhnghQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phejusohzejghpejhpuzhoenpkhNohzuphuphna
quslgjppheuqhpzxxmjqhqxzgh mxghejshynaj;hpejhajyohoeuohoejpjhfenyqsjg
xahejsp,hoeuohpejhzuphpxhmsx qhxa,hzjsjhgxohtjsjychtxpohxsqngusc,hi o
mxpnonrjychiuq,hnyy-isjqhfenyqsjg,hznoehfxuspj,his ouy
msxmjgpnonjp—znfljqhfenyqsjgk

Pejhfx yqhgxohouylhxshoenglhxahugcoengbhjypj,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohpmjul
oxhYjrnghxahejshtnpjsck

Yjrnghpuzhpejhzuph geummchugqhosnjqhoxhfxtaxsohejs,hpucngbhoeuohno
pexzjqhgxoengbhiuq,hoeuohuyyhfenyqsjghanbeo;hi o,hjrjghuphejhpunqhno,
ejhzuphoenglngbhnghenphejuso:h“Gx,hNhzxg’ohijhusonanfnuyhugqhouyl
Asjgfehznoehtchfenyqsjg;hi ohtchfenyqsjghzxg’ohijhynljhoeuokhUyyhxgj
euphoxhqxhnphgxohpmxnyhfenyqsjg,hgxohoxhqnpoxsohoejnshguo sj,hugq
oejc’yyhijhqjynbeoa ykhGx,htchfenyqsjghzxg’ohijhynljhoeuok”

Ejhpunqhbxxq-icjhugqhqsxrjhuzuc,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohoschoxhljjmhentk


Feumojsh11

Nghoejhtnqqyjhxah. ychoejhjyqjshxahoejhrnyyubjhxghYjrng’phpnpojs’p
jpouoj,huix ohanaojjghtnyjphasxthMxlsxrplxj,hfutjhoxhYjrnghoxhsjmxsohxg
exzhoengbphzjsjhbxngbhoejsjhugqhxghoejheuckhOejhfenjahpx sfjhxahngfxtj
xghenphpnpojs’phjpouojhzuphasxthoejhsnrjspnqjhtjuqxzpkhNghaxstjshcjusp
oejheucheuqhijjghix beohichoejhmjupugophaxshozjgochsx iyjphoejhoesjj
ufsjpkhZejghYjrnghoxxlhxrjshoejhtugubjtjgohxahoejhjpouoj,hejhoex beohxg
jvutngngbhoejhbsuppyugqphoeuohoejchzjsjhzxsoehtxsj,hugqhejhanvjqhoej
msnfjhuohozjgoc-anrjhsx iyjphoejhoesjjhufsjpkhOejhmjupugophzx yqhgxo
bnrjhoeuohmsnfj,hugq,huphYjrnghp pmjfojq,hljmohxaahxoejshm sfeupjspk
OejghYjrngheuqhqsnrjghxrjshentpjya,hugqhussugbjqhoxheurjhoejhbsupphf o,
musoychichensjqhyuixs,hmusoychuohuhmuctjgohxahuhfjsounghmsxmxsonxghxa
oejhfsxmkhEnphxzghmjupugophm ohjrjschengqsugfjhoejchfx yqhnghoejhzuchxa
oenphgjzhussugbjtjgo,hi ohnohzuphfussnjqhx o,hugqhoejhanspohcjushoej
tjuqxzpheuqhcnjyqjqhuhmsxanohuytxpohqx iyjkhOejhmsjrnx phcjus—zenfehzup
oejhoensqhcjus—oejhmjupugopheuqhtungoungjqhoejhputjhxmmxpnonxghoxhoej
ussugbjtjgo,hugqhoejheucheuqhijjghf ohxghoejhputjhpcpojtkhOenphcjushoej
mjupugophzjsjhqxngbhuyyhoejhtxzngbhaxshuhoensqhxahoejheuchfsxm,hugqhoej
rnyyubjhjyqjsheuqhfxtjhgxzhoxhuggx gfjhoeuohoejheucheuqhijjghf o,hugq
oeuo,hajusngbhsung,hoejcheuqhngrnojqhoejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjslhxrjs,heuq
qnrnqjqhoejhfsxmhnghenphmsjpjgfj,hugqheuqhsuljqhoxbjoejshjyjrjghpouflp
uphoejhxzgjs’phpeusjkhAsxthoejhrub jhugpzjsphoxhenphw jponxghexzht fe
eucheuqhijjghf ohxghoejhmsngfnmuyhtjuqxz,hasxthoejhe sschxahoejhrnyyubj
jyqjshzexheuqhtuqjhoejhqnrnpnxg,hgxohuplngbhyjurj,hasxthoejhzexyjhoxgj
xahoejhmjupugo,hYjrnghmjsfjnrjqhoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhzsxgbhnghoej
qnrnpnxghxahoejheuc,hugqhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhqsnrjhxrjshentpjyahoxhyxxl
ngoxhoejhtuoojsk

Ussnrngbhaxshqnggjshuohoejhrnyyubj,hugqhyjurngbhenphexspjhuohoej
fxooubjhxahughxyqhasnjgqhxahenp,hoejhe piugqhxahenphisxoejs’p
zjo-g spj,hYjrnghzjgohoxhpjjhoejhxyqhtughnghenphijj-ex pj,hzugongbhox
angqhx ohasxthenthoejhos oehuix ohoejheuckhMustjgnofe,huhouyluonrj,
fxtjychxyqhtug,hburjhYjrnghuhrjschzusthzjyfxtj,hpexzjqhenthuyyhejhzup
qxngb,hoxyqhenthjrjscoengbhuix ohenphijjphugqhoejhpzustphxahoeuohcjus;
i ohburjhrub jhugqh gznyyngbhugpzjsphoxhYjrng’phngw nsnjphuix ohoej
txzngbkhOenphfxganstjqhYjrnghponyyhtxsjhnghenphp pmnfnxgpkhEjhzjgohox
oejheuchanjyqphugqhjvutngjqhoejhpouflpkhOejheucpouflphfx yqhgxo
mxppniychfxgounghanaochzubxg-yxuqphjufe,hugqhoxhfxgrnfohoejhmjupugop
Yjrnghxsqjsjqhoejhzubxgphoeuoheuqhfussnjqhoejheuchoxhijhisx beoh m
qnsjfoyc,hoxhynaohxgjhpoufl,hugqhfusschnohngoxhoejhiusgkhOejsjho sgjq
x ohoxhijhxgychoensoc-ozxhyxuqphnghoejhpouflkhNghpmnojhxahoejhrnyyubj
jyqjs’phuppjsonxgphuix ohoejhfxtmsjppninynochxaheuc,hugqhnopheurngb
pjooyjqhqxzghnghoejhpouflp,hugqhenphpzjusngbhoeuohjrjscoengbheuqhijjg
qxgjhnghoejhajushxahBxq,hYjrnghpo flhoxhenphmxngohoeuohoejheucheuqhijjg
qnrnqjqhznoex ohenphxsqjsp,hugqhoeuo,hoejsjaxsj,hejhzx yqhgxohuffjmo
oeuoheuchuphanaochyxuqphoxhuhpouflkhUaojshuhmsxyxgbjqhqnpm ojhoej
tuoojshzuphqjfnqjqhichoejhmjupugophoulngbhoejpjhjyjrjghpouflp,
sjflxgngbhoejthuphanaochyxuqphjufekhOejhusb tjgophugqhoejhqnrnpnxghxa
oejheucfxflphyupojqhoejhzexyjhuaojsgxxgkhZejghoejhyupohxahoejheucheuq
ijjghqnrnqjq,hYjrng,hngos pongbhoejhp mjsngojgqjgfjhxahoejhsjpohoxhoej
fx gongb-ex pjhfyjsl,hpuohqxzghxghuheucfxflhtusljqhxaahichuhpouljhxa
znyyxz,hugqhyxxljqhuqtnsngbychuohoejhtjuqxzhpzustngbhznoehmjupugopk

Nghasxgohxahent,hnghoejhijgqhxahoejhsnrjshijcxgqhoejhtuspe,htxrjqhu
isnbeo-fxyxsjqhyngjhxahmjupugohzxtjg,hugqhoejhpfuoojsjqheuchzuphijngb
sumnqychaxstjqhngoxhbsuchzngqngbhsxzphxrjshoejhmuyjhbsjjghpo iiyjk
Uaojshoejhzxtjghfutjhoejhtjghznoehmnofeaxslp,hugqhasxthoejhbsuchsxzp
oejsjhzjsjhbsxzngbh mhisxuq,henbe,hpxaoheucfxflpkhOxhoejhyjao,hfusop
zjsjhs tiyngbhxrjshoejhtjuqxzhoeuoheuqhijjghuysjuqchfyjusjq,hugqhxgj
uaojshugxoejshoejheucfxflphrugnpejq,hay gbh mhnghe bjhaxsla yp,hugqhng
oejnshmyufjhoejsjhzjsjhsnpngbhejurchfusoyxuqphxahasubsugoheucheugbngb
xrjshoejhexspjp’hengq-w usojspk

“Zeuohzjuoejshaxsheucngb!hZeuoheuchno’yyhij!”hpunqhughxyqhtug,
pw uoongbhqxzghijpnqjhYjrngkh“No’phoju,hgxoheuc!hNo’phynljhpfuoojsngb
bsunghoxhoejhq flp,hoejhzuchoejchmnflhnoh m!”hejhuqqjq,hmxngongbhoxhoej
bsxzngbheucfxflpkh“Pngfjhqnggjshontjhoejc’rjhfussnjqhuhbxxqheuyahxa
nok”

“Oejhyupohyxuq,hje?”hejhpex ojqhoxhuhcx gbhmjupugo,hzexhqsxrjhic,
pougqngbhnghoejhasxgohxahughjtmochfuso,hpeulngbhoejhfxsqhsjngpk

“Oejhyupo,hquq!”hoejhyuqhpex ojqhiufl,hm yyngbhnghoejhexspj,hugq,
ptnyngb,hejhyxxljqhsx gqhuohuhisnbeo,hsxpc-fejfljqhmjupugohbnsyhzexhpuo
nghoejhfusohptnyngbhoxx,hugqhqsxrjhxgk

“Zex’phoeuo?hCx shpxg?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Tchiuic,”hpunqhoejhxyqhtughznoehuhojgqjshptnyjk

“Zeuohuhangjhajyyxz!”

“Oejhyuq’phuyyhsnbeok”

“Tussnjqhuysjuqc?”

“Cjp,hno’phozxhcjusphyupohPokhMenynm’phquck”

“Ugchfenyqsjg?”

“Fenyqsjghngqjjq!hZec,haxshxrjshuhcjushejhzuphnggxfjgohuphuhiuij
entpjya,hugqhiupea yhoxx,”hugpzjsjqhoejhxyqhtugkh“Zjyy,hoejheuc!hNo’p
uphasubsugohuphoju!”hejhsjmjuojq,hznpengbhoxhfeugbjhoejhp i.jfok

YjrnghyxxljqhtxsjhuoojgonrjychuohNrughMustjgxrhugqhenphznajkhOejchzjsj
yxuqngbhuheucfxflhxgoxhoejhfusohgxohaushasxthentkhNrughMustjgxrhzup
pougqngbhxghoejhfuso,houlngb,hyucngbhnghmyufj,hugqhpoutmngbhqxzghoej
e bjhi gqyjphxaheuc,hzenfehenphmsjoochcx gbhznajhqjaoycheugqjqh mhox
ent,huohanspohnghusta yp,hugqhoejghxghoejhmnofeaxslkhOejhcx gbhznaj
zxsljqhjupnyc,htjssnyc,hugqhqjvojsx pyckhOejhfyxpj-mufljqheuchqnqhgxo
xgfjhisjulhuzuchxaahejshaxslkhAnspohpejhbuoejsjqhnohoxbjoejs,hpo flhoej
axslhngoxhno,hoejghznoehuhsumnq,hp mmyjhtxrjtjgohyjugjqhoejhzexyj
zjnbeohxahejshixqchxghno,hugqhuohxgfjhznoehuhijgqhxahejshiuflh gqjshoej
sjqhijyohpejhqsjzhejspjyah m,hugqhusfengbhejsha yyhixpxth gqjshoej
zenojhptxfl,hznoehuhptusoho sghpz gbhoejhaxslhnghejshustp,hugqhay gb
oejhi gqyjhxaheuchenbehxgoxhoejhfusokhNrug,hxirnx pychqxngbhenphijpohox
purjhejshjrjschtng ojhxah ggjfjppuschyuixs,htuqjheupoj,hxmjgngbhenp
ustphoxhfy ofehoejhi gqyjhugqhyuchnohnghoejhfusokhUphpejhsuljqhoxbjoejs
zeuohzuphyjaohxahoejheuc,hoejhcx gbhznajhpexxlhxaahoejhinophxaheuchoeuo
euqhauyyjghxghejshgjfl,hugqhposunbeojgngbhoejhsjqhljsfenjahoeuoheuq
qsxmmjqhaxszusqhxrjshejshzenojhisxz,hgxohisxzgjqhynljhejshaufjhichoej
p g,hpejhfsjmoh gqjshoejhfusohoxhonjh mhoejhyxuqkhNrughqnsjfojqhejshexz
oxhaupojghoejhfxsqhoxhoejhfsxpp-mnjfj,hugqhuohpxtjoengbhpejhpunqhej
yu bejqhuyx qkhNghoejhjvmsjppnxgphxahixoehaufjphzuphoxhijhpjjg
rnbxsx p,hcx gb,hasjpeychuzuljgjqhyxrjk


Feumojsh12

OejhyxuqhzuphonjqhxgkhNrugh. tmjqhqxzghugqhoxxlhoejhw njo,hpyjjlhexspj
ichoejhisnqyjkhOejhcx gbhznajhay gbhoejhsuljh mhxghoejhyxuq,hugqhznoehu
ixyqhpojm,hpzngbngbhejshustp,hpejhzjgohoxh.xnghoejhzxtjg,hzexhzjsj
axstngbhuhsngbhaxshoejheuctuljsp’hqugfjkhNrughqsxrjhxaahoxhoejhsxuqhugq
ajyyhngoxhyngjhznoehoejhxoejshyxuqjqhfusopkhOejhmjupugohzxtjg,hznoe
oejnshsuljphxghoejnshpex yqjsp,hbuchznoehisnbeohayxzjsp,hugqhfeuoojsngb
znoehsngbngb,htjsschrxnfjp,hzuyljqhijengqhoejheuchfusokhXgjhznyq
 gosungjqhajtuyjhrxnfjhisxljhngoxhuhpxgb,hugqhpugbhnohuyxgjhoesx behu
rjspj,hugqhoejghoejhputjhrjspjhzuphouljgh mhugqhsjmjuojqhicheuyahu
e gqsjqhposxgbhejuyoechrxnfjp,hxahuyyhpxsop,hfxuspjhugqhangj,hpngbngb
ngh gnpxgk

Oejhzxtjg,huyyhpngbngb,hijbughoxhfxtjhfyxpjhoxhYjrng,hugqhejhajyohup
oex behuhpoxsthzjsjhpzxxmngbhqxzgh mxghenthznoehuhoe gqjshxahtjssntjgok
Oejhpoxsthpzxxmjqhqxzg,hjgrjyxmjqhenthugqhoejheucfxflhxghzenfehejhzup
ycngb,hugqhoejhxoejsheucfxflp,hugqhoejhzubxg-yxuqp,hugqhoejhzexyj
tjuqxzhugqhqnpougohanjyqphuyyhpjjtjqhoxhijhpeulngbhugqhpngbngbhoxhoej
tjup sjphxahoenphznyqhtjsschpxgbhznoehnophpex ophugqhzenpoyjphugq
fyummngbkhYjrnghajyohjgrnx phxahoenphejuyoehugqhtnsoea ygjpp;hejhyxgbjq
oxhouljhmusohnghoejhjvmsjppnxghxahoenph.xchxahynajkhI ohejhfx yqhqx
gxoengb,hugqheuqhoxhynjhugqhyxxlhxghugqhynpojgkhZejghoejhmjupugop,hznoe
oejnshpngbngb,heuqhrugnpejqhx ohxahpnbeohugqhejusngb,huhzjuschajjyngb
xahqjpmxgqjgfchuohenphxzghnpxyuonxg,henphmecpnfuyhngufonrnoc,henp
uynjguonxghasxthoenphzxsyq,hfutjhxrjshYjrngk

Pxtjhxahoejhrjschmjupugophzexheuqhijjghtxpohufonrjhnghzsugbyngbhznoe
enthxrjshoejheuc,hpxtjhzexthejheuqhosjuojqhznoehfxgo tjyc,hugqhzexheuq
osnjqhoxhfejuohent,hoexpjhrjschmjupugopheuqhbsjjojqhenthbxxq-e txsjqyc,
ugqhjrnqjgoycheuqhgxo,hzjsjhngfumuiyjhxaheurngbhugchajjyngbhxahsugfxs
ubungpohent,hugchsjbsjo,hugchsjfxyyjfonxghjrjghxaheurngbhosnjqhox
qjfjnrjhentkhUyyhoeuohzuphqsxzgjqhnghuhpjuhxahtjsschfxttxghyuixskhBxq
burjhoejhquc,hBxqhburjhoejhposjgboekhUgqhoejhquchugqhoejhposjgboehzjsj
fxgpjfsuojqhoxhyuixs,hugqhoeuohyuixshzuphnophxzghsjzusqkhAxshzexthoej
yuixs?hZeuohzx yqhijhnophas nop?hOejpjhzjsjhnqyjhfxgpnqjsuonxgp—ijpnqj
oejhmxngok

XaojghYjrngheuqhuqtnsjqhoenphynaj,hxaojghejheuqhuhpjgpjhxahjgrchxahoej
tjghzexhyjqhoenphynaj;hi ohoxquchaxshoejhanspohontj,hjpmjfnuyych gqjs
oejhngay jgfjhxahzeuohejheuqhpjjghnghoejhuoono qjhxahNrughMustjgxrhox
enphcx gbhznaj,hoejhnqjuhmsjpjgojqhnopjyahqjangnojychoxhenphtngqhoeuo
nohzuphnghenphmxzjshoxhjvfeugbjhoejhqsjusc,husonanfnuy,hnqyj,hugq
ngqnrnq uynponfhynajhejhzuphyjuqngbhaxshoenphyuixsnx p,hm sj,hugq
pxfnuyychqjynbeoa yhynajk

Oejhxyqhtughzexheuqhijjghpnoongbhijpnqjhentheuqhyxgbhubxhbxgjhextj;hoej
mjxmyjheuqhuyyhpjmusuojqkhOexpjhzexhynrjqhgjusheuqhbxgjhextj,hzenyj
oexpjhzexhfutjhasxthaushzjsjhbuoejsjqhngoxhuhbsx mhaxshp mmjs,hugqhox
pmjgqhoejhgnbeohnghoejhtjuqxzkhYjrng,h gxipjsrjqhichoejhmjupugop,hponyy
yuchxghoejheucfxfl,hugqhponyyhyxxljqhxghugqhynpojgjqhugqht pjqkhOej
mjupugophzexhsjtungjqhaxshoejhgnbeohnghoejhtjuqxzhpfusfjychpyjmohuyy
oejhpexsohp ttjshgnbeokhUohanspohoejsjhzuphoejhpx gqhxahtjsschouylhugq
yu bengbhuyyhoxbjoejshxrjshoejhp mmjs,hoejghpngbngbhubunghugqhyu beojsk

Uyyhoejhyxgbhquchxahoxnyheuqhyjaohgxhosufjhnghoejthi ohynbeogjpphxa
ejusokhIjaxsjhoejhjusychquzghuyyhzuphe pejqkhGxoengbhzuphoxhijhejusq
i ohoejhgnbeohpx gqphxahoejhasxbphoeuohgjrjshfjupjqhnghoejhtuspe,hugq
oejhexspjphpgxsongbhnghoejhtnpohoeuohsxpjhxrjshoejhtjuqxzhijaxsjhoej
txsgngbkhSx pngbhentpjya,hYjrnghbxoh mhasxthoejheucfxfl,hugqhyxxlngbhuo
oejhpousp,hejhpuzhoeuohoejhgnbeohzuphxrjsk

“Zjyy,hzeuohuthNhbxngbhoxhqx?hExzhuthNhoxhpjohuix ohno?”hejhpunqhox
entpjya,hoscngbhoxhjvmsjpphoxhentpjyahuyyhoejhoex beophugqhajjyngbphej
euqhmuppjqhoesx behnghoeuohisnjahgnbeokhUyyhoejhoex beophugqhajjyngbp
ejheuqhmuppjqhoesx behajyyhngoxhoesjjhpjmusuojhosungphxahoex beokhXgj
zuphoejhsjg gfnuonxghxahenphxyqhynaj,hxahenph oojsych pjyjpphjq fuonxgk
Oenphsjg gfnuonxghburjhenthpuonpaufonxg,hugqhzuphjupchugqhpntmyjk
Ugxoejshpjsnjphxahoex beophugqhtjgouyhntubjphsjyuojqhoxhoejhynajhej
yxgbjqhoxhynrjhgxzkhOejhpntmynfnoc,hoejhm snoc,hoejhpugnochxahoenphynaj
ejhajyohfyjusyc,hugqhejhzuphfxgrngfjqhejhzx yqhangqhnghnohoejhfxgojgo,
oejhmjufj,hugqhoejhqnbgnoc,hxahoejhyuflhxahzenfehejhzuphpxhtnpjsuiyc
fxgpfnx pkhI ohuhoensqhpjsnjphxahnqjupho sgjqh mxghoejhw jponxghexzhox
jaajfohoenphosugpnonxghasxthoejhxyqhynajhoxhoejhgjzkhUgqhoejsjhgxoengb
oxxlhfyjushpeumjhaxshentkh“Eurjhuhznaj?hEurjhzxslhugqhoejhgjfjppnochxa
zxsl?hYjurjhMxlsxrplxj?hI chyugq?hIjfxtjhuhtjtijshxahuhmjupugo
fxtt gnoc?hTusschuhmjupugohbnsy?hExzhuthNhoxhpjohuix ohno?”hejhupljq
entpjyahubung,hugqhfx yqhgxohangqhughugpzjskh“Nheurjg’ohpyjmohuyy
gnbeo,hoex be,hugqhNhfug’ohoenglhnohx ohfyjusyc,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyak
“N’yyhzxslhnohx ohyuojskhXgjhoengb’phfjsoung,hoenphgnbeoheuphqjfnqjqhtc
auojkhUyyhtchxyqhqsjutphxahextjhynajhzjsjhuip sq,hgxohoejhsjuyhoengb,”
ejhoxyqhentpjyakh“No’phuyyhjrjshpxht fehpntmyjshugqhijoojskkkk”

“Exzhiju ona y!”hejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhuohoejhposugbj,huphnohzjsj,
txoejs-xa-mjusyhpejyyhxahzenojhayjjfchfyx qyjophsjpongbhsnbeohxrjshenp
ejuqhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhplckh“Exzhjvw npnojhnohuyyhnphnghoenp
jvw npnojhgnbeo!hUgqhzejghzuphoejsjhontjhaxshoeuohfyx q-pejyyhoxhaxst?
. pohgxzhNhyxxljqhuohoejhplc,hugqhoejsjhzuphgxoengbhnghno—xgychozx
zenojhposjulpkhCjp,hugqhpxhntmjsfjmoniychoxxhtchrnjzphxahynajhfeugbjq!”

Ejhzjgohx ohxahoejhtjuqxzhugqhzuyljqhuyxgbhoejhenbesxuqhoxzusqphoej
rnyyubjkhUhpynbeohzngqhusxpj,hugqhoejhplchyxxljqhbsuchugqhp yyjgkhOej
byxxtchtxtjgoheuqhfxtjhoeuoh p uyychmsjfjqjphoejhquzg,hoejha yyhosn tme
xahynbeohxrjshquslgjppk

Pesnglngbhasxthoejhfxyq,hYjrnghzuyljqhsumnqyc,hyxxlngbhuohoejhbsx gqk
“Zeuo’phoeuo?hPxtjxgjhfxtngb,”hejhoex beo,hfuofengbhoejhonglyjhxa
ijyyp,hugqhynaongbhenphejuqkhAxsochmufjphasxthenthuhfussnubjhznoehax s
exspjpheusgjppjqhuisjupohzuphqsnrngbhoxzusqphenthuyxgbhoejhbsuppchsxuq
xghzenfehejhzuphzuylngbkhOejhpeuao-exspjphzjsjhonyojqhubungpohoej
peuaophichoejhs op,hi ohoejhqjvojsx phqsnrjshpnoongbhxghoejhixvhejyq
oejhpeuaohxrjshoejhs op,hpxhoeuohoejhzejjyphsughxghoejhptxxoehmusohxa
oejhsxuqk

OenphzuphuyyhYjrnghgxonfjq,hugqhznoex ohzxgqjsngbhzexhnohfx yqhij,hej
budjqhuipjgoychuohoejhfxufek

Nghoejhfxufehzuphughxyqhyuqchqxdngbhnghxgjhfxsgjs,hugqhuohoejhzngqxz,
jrnqjgoychxgych. pohuzulj,hpuohuhcx gbhbnsyhexyqngbhnghixoeheugqphoej
sniixgphxahuhzenojhfumkhZnoehuhaufjha yyhxahynbeohugqhoex beo,ha yyhxa
uhp ioyj,hfxtmyjvhnggjshynaj,hoeuohzuphsjtxojhasxthYjrng,hpejhzup
budngbhijcxgqhenthuohoejhbyxzhxahoejhp gsnpjk

Uohoejhrjschngpougohzejghoenphummusnonxghzuphrugnpengb,hoejhos oea y
jcjphbyugfjqhuohentkhPejhsjfxbgndjqhent,hugqhejshaufjhynbeojqh mhznoe
zxgqjsngbhqjynbeok

Ejhfx yqhgxohijhtnpouljgkhOejsjhzjsjhgxhxoejshjcjphynljhoexpjhnghoej
zxsyqkhOejsjhzuphxgychxgjhfsjuo sjhnghoejhzxsyqhoeuohfx yqhfxgfjgosuoj
axshenthuyyhoejhisnbeogjpphugqhtjugngbhxahynajkhNohzuphpejkhNohzup
LnoockhEjh gqjspoxxqhoeuohpejhzuphqsnrngbhoxhJsb pexrxhasxthoejhsunyzuc
pouonxgkhUgqhjrjscoengbhoeuoheuqhijjghponssngbhYjrnghq sngbhoeuo
pyjjmyjpphgnbeo,huyyhoejhsjpxy onxgphejheuqhtuqj,huyyhrugnpejqhuohxgfjk
EjhsjfuyyjqhznoehexssxshenphqsjutphxahtusscngbhuhmjupugohbnsykhOejsj
xgyc,hnghoejhfussnubjhoeuoheuqhfsxppjqhxrjshoxhoejhxoejshpnqjhxahoej
sxuq,hugqhzuphsumnqychqnpummjusngb,hoejsjhxgychfx yqhejhangqhoej
pxy onxghxahoejhsnqqyjhxahenphynaj,hzenfeheuqhzjnbejqhpxhubxgndngbyc
 mxghenthxahyuojk

Pejhqnqhgxohyxxlhx ohubungkhOejhpx gqhxahoejhfussnubj-pmsngbphzuphgx
yxgbjshu qniyj,hoejhijyyphfx yqhpfusfjychijhejusqkhOejhiuslngbhxahqxbp
pexzjqhoejhfussnubjheuqhsjufejqhoejhrnyyubj,hugqhuyyhoeuohzuphyjaohzup
oejhjtmochanjyqphuyyhsx gq,hoejhrnyyubjhnghasxgo,hugqhejhentpjya
npxyuojqhugqhumusohasxthnohuyy,hzugqjsngbhyxgjychuyxgbhoejhqjpjsojq
enbesxuqk

Ejhbyugfjqhuohoejhplc,hjvmjfongbhoxhangqhoejsjhoejhfyx qhpejyyhejheuq
ijjghuqtnsngbhugqhoulngbhuphoejhpctixyhxahoejhnqjuphugqhajjyngbphxa
oeuohgnbeokhOejsjhzuphgxoengbhnghoejhplchnghoejhyjupohynljhuhpejyyk
Oejsj,hnghoejhsjtxojhejnbeophuixrj,huhtcpojsnx phfeugbjheuqhijjg
uffxtmynpejqkhOejsjhzuphgxhosufjhxahpejyy,hugqhoejsjhzuphposjofejqhxrjs
a yycheuyahoejhplchughjrjghfxrjshxahongchugqhjrjshongnjshfyx qyjopkhOej
plcheuqhbsxzghiy jhugqhisnbeo;hugqhznoehoejhputjhpxaogjpp,hi ohznoehoej
putjhsjtxojgjpp,hnohtjohenphw jponxgngbhbudjk

“Gx,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,h“exzjrjshbxxqhoeuohynajhxahpntmynfnochugq
oxnyhtuchij,hNhfuggxohbxhiuflhoxhnokhNhyxrjh_ejs_k”


Feumojsh13

Gxgjhi ohoexpjhzexhzjsjhtxpohngontuojhznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlgjz
oeuo,hzenyjhxghoejhp saufjhoejhfxyqjpohugqhtxpohsjupxguiyjhxahtjg,hej
euqhxgjhzjulgjpphw nojhxmmxpjqhoxhoejhbjgjsuyhosjgqhxahenphfeusufojsk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfx yqhgxohejushxshpjjhuhfenyqhxshzxtughfscngb
znoex ohijngbhtxrjqkhOejhpnbeohxahojusphoesjzhenthngoxhuhpouojhxa
gjsrx phubnouonxg,hugqhejh oojsychyxpohuyyhmxzjshxahsjayjfonxgkhOej
fenjahpjfsjouschxahenphqjmusotjgohugqhenphmsnruojhpjfsjouschzjsjhuzusj
xahoenp,hugqh pjqhoxhzusghzxtjghzexhfutjhznoehmjononxgphxghgxhuffx go
oxhbnrjhzuchoxhojusp,hnahoejchqnqhgxohzugohoxhs nghoejnshfeugfjpkh“Ej
znyyhbjohugbsc,hugqhznyyhgxohynpojghoxhcx ,”hoejch pjqhoxhpuckhUgqhuphu
aufo,hnghp fehfupjphoejhjtxonxguyhqnpo siugfjhpjoh mhnghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehichoejhpnbeohxahojusphax gqhjvmsjppnxghngheupochugbjsk
“NhfughqxhgxoengbkhLngqychyjurjhoejhsxxt!”hejhzx yqhfxttxgychfschng
p fehfupjpk

Zejghsjo sgngbhasxthoejhsufjphUgguheuqhngaxstjqhenthxahejshsjyuonxgp
znoehRsxgplc,hugqhnttjqnuojychuaojszusqpheuqhi spohngoxhojusp,henqngb
ejshaufjhnghejsheugqp,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,haxshuyyhoejha schusx pjq
nghenthubungpohejs,hzuphuzusjhuohoejhputjhontjhxahuhs pehxahoeuo
jtxonxguyhqnpo siugfjhuyzucphmsxq fjqhnghenthichojuspkhFxgpfnx phxahno,
ugqhfxgpfnx phoeuohugchjvmsjppnxghxahenphajjyngbphuohoeuohtng ojhzx yq
ijhx ohxahljjmngbhznoehoejhmxpnonxg,hejhosnjqhoxhp mmsjpphjrjsc
tugnajpouonxghxahynajhnghentpjya,hugqhpxhgjnoejshponssjqhgxshyxxljqhuo
ejskhOenphzuphzeuoheuqhfu pjqhoeuohposugbjhjvmsjppnxghxahqjuoeynlj
snbnqnochnghenphaufjhzenfeheuqhpxhntmsjppjqhUgguk

Zejghoejchsjufejqhoejhex pjhejhejymjqhejshoxhbjohx ohxahoejhfussnubj,
ugqhtulngbhughjaaxsohoxhtupojshentpjya,hoxxlhyjurjhxahejshznoehenp
 p uyh siugnoc,hugqh oojsjqhoeuohmesupjhoeuohix gqhenthoxhgxoengb;hej
punqhoeuohoxtxssxzhejhzx yqhyjohejshlgxzhenphqjfnpnxgk

Enphznaj’phzxsqp,hfxganstngbhenphzxspohp pmnfnxgp,heuqhpjgohuhfs jy
mugbhoxhoejhejusohxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhOeuohmugbhzuphngojgpnanjq
ichoejhposugbjhajjyngbhxahmecpnfuyhmnochaxshejshpjoh mhichejshojuspk
I ohzejghejhzuphuyyhuyxgjhnghoejhfussnubjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hoxhenp
p smsnpjhugqhqjynbeo,hajyohfxtmyjojhsjynjahixoehasxthoenphmnochugqhasxt
oejhqx iophugqhubxgnjphxah.juyx pck

Ejhjvmjsnjgfjqhoejhpjgpuonxgphxahuhtughzexheupheuqhuhoxxoehx ohuaojs
p aajsngbhyxgbhasxthoxxoeufejkhUaojshuhajusa yhubxgchugqhuhpjgpjhxa
pxtjoengbhe bj,hinbbjshoeughoejhejuqhnopjya,hijngbhoxsghx ohxahenph.uz,
oejhp aajsjs,heusqychuiyjhoxhijynjrjhnghenphxzghbxxqhy fl,hajjyphuyyhuo
xgfjhoeuohzeuoheuphpxhyxgbhmxnpxgjqhenphjvnpojgfjhugqhjgfeungjqhenp
uoojgonxg,hjvnpophgxhyxgbjs,hugqhoeuohejhfughynrjhugqhoenglhubung,hugq
ouljhngojsjpohnghxoejshoengbphijpnqjphenphoxxoekhOenphajjyngbhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehzuphjvmjsnjgfngbkhOejhubxgcheuqhijjghposugbjhugq
ojssniyj,hi ohgxzhnohzuphxrjs;hejhajyohoeuohejhfx yqhynrjhubunghugq
oenglhxahpxtjoengbhxoejshoeughenphznajk

“Gxhexgxs,hgxhejuso,hgxhsjynbnxg;huhfxss mohzxtugkhNhuyzucphlgjzhnohugq
uyzucphpuzhno,hoex behNhosnjqhoxhqjfjnrjhtcpjyahoxhpmusjhejs,”hejhpunq
oxhentpjyakhUgqhnohufo uyychpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejhuyzucpheuqhpjjghno:
ejhsjfuyyjqhngfnqjgophxahoejnshmupohynaj,hnghzenfehejheuqhgjrjshpjjg
ugcoengbhzsxgbhijaxsj—gxzhoejpjhngfnqjgophmsxrjqhfyjusychoeuohpejheuq
uyzucphijjghuhfxss mohzxtugkh“Nhtuqjhuhtnpouljhnghynglngbhtchynajhox
ejsp;hi ohoejsjhzuphgxoengbhzsxgbhnghtchtnpoulj,hugqhpxhNhfuggxohij
 geummckhNo’phgxohNhoeuohuthoxhiyutj,”hejhoxyqhentpjya,h“i ohpejkhI ohN
eurjhgxoengbhoxhqxhznoehejskhPejhqxjphgxohjvnpohaxshtjkkkk”

Jrjscoengbhsjyuongbhoxhejshugqhejshpxg,hoxzusqphzexthenphpjgontjgop
zjsjhupht fehfeugbjqhuphoxzusqphejs,hfjupjqhoxhngojsjpohentkhOejhxgyc
oengbhoeuohngojsjpojqhenthgxzhzuphoejhw jponxghxahnghzeuohzuchejhfx yq
ijpo,hznoehtxpohmsxmsnjochugqhfxtaxsohaxshentpjya,hugqhoe phznoehtxpo
. ponfj,hjvosnfuojhentpjyahasxthoejht qhznoehzenfehpejheuqhpmuoojsjq
enthnghejshauyy,hugqhoejghmsxfjjqhuyxgbhenphmuoehxahufonrj,hexgxsuiyj,
ugqh pja yhjvnpojgfjk

“Nhfuggxohijhtuqjh geummchichoejhaufohoeuohuhfxgojtmoniyjhzxtugheup
fxttnoojqhuhfsntjkhNheurjhxgychoxhangqhoejhijpohzuchx ohxahoej
qnaanf yohmxpnonxghnghzenfehpejheuphmyufjqhtjkhUgqhNhpeuyyhangqhno,”hej
punqhoxhentpjya,hasxzgngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjkh“N’thgxohoejhanspohgxshoej
yupok”hUgqhoxhpuchgxoengbhxahenpoxsnfuyhngpougfjphquongbhasxthoejh“Auns
Ejyjg”hxahTjgjyu p,hsjfjgoychsjrnrjqhnghoejhtjtxschxahuyy,huhzexyjhynpo
xahfxgojtmxsuschjvutmyjphxahe piugqphznoeh gaunoea yhznrjphnghoej
enbejpohpxfnjochsxpjhijaxsjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phntubnguonxgk
“Quscuyxr,hMxyourplc,hMsngfjhLusniugxr,hFx gohMupl qng,hQsutkkkkhCjp,
jrjghQsut,hp fehughexgjpo,hfumuiyjhajyyxzhkkkhPjtcxgxr,hOfeubng,
Pnbxgng,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjtjtijsjqkh“Uqtnoongbhoeuohuhfjsoung
w nojhnssuonxguyh_snqnf yj_hauyyphoxhoejhyxohxahoejpjhtjg,hcjohNhgjrjs
puzhugcoengbhi ohuhtnpaxso gjhnghno,hugqhuyzucphajyohpctmuoechaxshno,”
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya,hoex behngqjjqhoenphzuphgxohoej
aufo,hugqhejheuqhgjrjshajyohpctmuoechaxshtnpaxso gjphxahoeuohlngq,hi o
oejhtxsjhasjw jgoychejheuqhejusqhxahngpougfjphxah gaunoea yhznrjp
ijosucngbhoejnshe piugqp,hoejhtxsjhenbeychejheuqhoex beohxahentpjyak
“Nohnphuhtnpaxso gjhzenfehtuchijauyyhugcxgjkhUgqhoenphtnpaxso gjheup
ijauyyjghtjkhOejhxgychoengbhoxhijhqxgjhnphoxhtuljhoejhijpohxahoej
mxpnonxgk”

Ugqhejhijbughmuppngbhnghsjrnjzhoejhtjoexqphxahmsxfjjqngbhxahtjghzexheuq
ijjghnghoejhputjhmxpnonxghoeuohejhzuphngk

“Quscuyxrhax beohuhq jykkkk”

Oejhq jyheuqhmusonf yusychaupfnguojqhoejhoex beophxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehnghenphcx oe,h. pohijfu pjhejhzuphmecpnfuyychuhfxzusq,
ugqhzuphentpjyahzjyyhuzusjhxahoejhaufokhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfx yqhgxo
znoex ohexssxshfxgojtmyuojhoejhnqjuhxahuhmnpoxyhuntjqhuohentpjya,hugq
euqhgjrjshtuqjh pjhxahugchzjumxghnghenphynajkhOenphexssxsheuqhnghenp
cx oehpjohenthmxgqjsngbhxghq jyngb,hugqhmnfo sngbhentpjyahnghuhmxpnonxg
nghzenfehejhzx yqheurjhoxhjvmxpjhenphynajhoxhqugbjskhEurngbhuooungjq
p ffjpphugqhughjpouiynpejqhmxpnonxghnghoejhzxsyq,hejheuqhyxgbhubx
axsbxoojghoenphajjyngb;hi ohoejheuino uyhijgohxahajjyngbhsjuppjsojq
nopjya,hugqhqsjuqhxahenphxzghfxzusqnfjhmsxrjqhjrjghgxzhpxhposxgbhoeuo
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpmjgohuhyxgbhzenyjhoenglngbhxrjshoejhw jponxghxa
q jyngbhnghuyyhnophupmjfop,hugqhe bbngbhoejhnqjuhxahuhq jy,hoex behej
zupha yychuzusjhijaxsjeugqhoeuohejhzx yqhgjrjsh gqjshugchfnsf tpougfjp
anbeohxgjk

“Oejsj’phgxhqx iohx shpxfnjochnphponyyhpxhiusiusx ph(no’phgxohoejhputj
nghJgbyugq)hoeuohrjschtugc”—ugqhutxgbhoejpjhzjsjhoexpjhzexpjhxmngnxg
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmusonf yusychruy jq—“yxxlhaurxsuiychxghoejhq jy;
i ohzeuohsjp yohnphuooungjqhichno?hP mmxpjhNhfuyyhenthx o,”hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohxghoxhentpjya,hugqhrnrnqychmnfo sngbhoejhgnbeohej
zx yqhpmjgqhuaojshoejhfeuyyjgbj,hugqhoejhmnpoxyhuntjqhuohent,hej
pe qqjsjq,hugqhlgjzhoeuohejhgjrjshzx yqhqxhno—“p mmxpjhNhfuyyhenthx ok
P mmxpjhNhuthou beo,”hejhzjgohxght pngb,h“oxhpexxo;hNhmsjpphoej
osnbbjs,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hfyxpngbhenphjcjp,h“ugqhnoho sgphx ohN
eurjhlnyyjqhent,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya,hugqhejhpexxl
enphejuqhuphoex behoxhqnpmjyhp fehpnyychnqjupkh“Zeuohpjgpjhnphoejsjhng
t sqjsngbhuhtughnghxsqjshoxhqjangjhxgj’phsjyuonxghoxhuhb nyochznajhugq
pxg?hNhpex yqhponyyh. pohupht feheurjhoxhqjfnqjhzeuohNhx beohoxhqxhznoe
ejskhI ohzeuohnphtxsjhmsxiuiyjhugqhzeuohzx yqhqx ioyjpphxff s—Nhpex yq
ijhlnyyjqhxshzx gqjqkhN,hoejhnggxfjgohmjspxg,hpex yqhijhoej
rnfont—lnyyjqhxshzx gqjqkhNo’phjrjghtxsjhpjgpjyjppkhI ohumusohasxt
oeuo,huhfeuyyjgbjhoxhanbeohzx yqhijhughufoheusqychexgjpohxghtchpnqjk
Qxg’ohNhlgxzhmjsajfoychzjyyhoeuohtchasnjgqphzx yqhgjrjshuyyxzhtjhox
anbeohuhq jy—zx yqhgjrjshuyyxzhoejhynajhxahuhpouojptug,hgjjqjqhic
S ppnu,hoxhijhjvmxpjqhoxhqugbjs?hLgxzngbhmjsajfoychzjyyhijaxsjeugqhoeuo
oejhtuoojshzx yqhgjrjshfxtjhoxhsjuyhqugbjs,hnohzx yqhutx gohoxhtc
pntmychoscngbhoxhbunghuhfjsounghpeuthsjm ouonxghichp fehuhfeuyyjgbjk
Oeuohzx yqhijhqnpexgjpo,hoeuohzx yqhijhauypj,hoeuohzx yqhijhqjfjnrngb
tcpjyahugqhxoejspkhUhq jyhnphw nojhnssuonxguy,hugqhgxhxgjhjvmjfophnohxa
tjkhTchunthnphpntmychoxhpuajb usqhtchsjm ouonxg,hzenfehnphjppjgonuyhaxs
oejh gngojss mojqhm sp nohxahtchm iynfhq onjpk”hXaanfnuyhq onjp,hzenfe
euqhuyzucphijjghxahbsjuohfxgpjw jgfjhnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phjcjp,
pjjtjqhxahpmjfnuyhntmxsougfjhoxhenphtngqhuohoenphtxtjgokhFxgpnqjsngb
ugqhsj.jfongbhoejhq jy,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeho sgjqhoxhqnrxsfj—ugxoejs
pxy onxghpjyjfojqhichpjrjsuyhxahoejhe piugqphejhsjtjtijsjqkhMuppngbhng
tjgouyhsjrnjzhuyyhoejhngpougfjphejhlgjzhxahqnrxsfjph(oejsjhzjsjhmyjgoc
xahoejthnghoejhrjschenbejpohpxfnjochznoehzenfehejhzuphrjschautnynus),
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfx yqhgxohangqhuhpngbyjhjvutmyjhnghzenfehoej
xi.jfohxahqnrxsfjhzuphoeuohzenfehejheuqhnghrnjzkhNghuyyhoejpjhngpougfjp
oejhe piugqheuqhmsufonfuyychfjqjqhxshpxyqhenph gaunoea yhznaj,hugqhoej
rjschmusochzenfe,hijngbhnghau yo,heuqhgxohoejhsnbeohoxhfxgosufohuhasjpe
tussnubj,heuqhaxstjqhfx gojsajno,hmpj qx-tuosntxgnuyhonjphznoehu
pjya-pocyjqhe piugqkhNghenphxzghfupj,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhoeuohu
yjbuyhqnrxsfj,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hxgjhnghzenfehxgychoejhb nyochznajhzx yq
ijhsjm qnuojq,hzuphntmxppniyjhxahuooungtjgokhEjhpuzhoeuohoejhfxtmyjv
fxgqnonxgphxahoejhynajhoejchyjqhtuqjhoejhfxuspjhmsxxaphxahenphznaj’p
b nyo,hsjw nsjqhichoejhyuz,hx ohxahoejhw jponxg;hejhpuzhoeuohuhfjsoung
sjangjtjgohnghoeuohynajhzx yqhgxohuqtnohxahp fehmsxxaphijngbhisx beo
axszusq,hjrjghnahejheuqhoejt,hugqhoeuohoxhisngbhaxszusqhp fehmsxxap
zx yqhqutubjhenthnghoejhm iynfhjpontuonxghtxsjhoeughnohzx yqhejsk

Ughuoojtmohuohqnrxsfjhfx yqhyjuqhoxhgxoengbhi ohuhm iynfhpfugquy,hzenfe
zx yqhijhuhmjsajfohbxqpjgqhoxhenphjgjtnjphaxshfuy tgchugqhuoouflphxg
enphenbehmxpnonxghnghpxfnjockhEnphfenjahxi.jfo,hoxhqjangjhoejhmxpnonxg
znoehoejhyjupohutx gohxahqnpo siugfjhmxppniyj,hzx yqhgxohijhuooungjqhic
qnrxsfjhjnoejskhTxsjxrjs,hnghoejhjrjgohxahqnrxsfj,hxshjrjghxahug
uoojtmohoxhxiounghuhqnrxsfj,hnohzuphxirnx phoeuohoejhznajhisxljhxaahuyy
sjyuonxgphznoehoejhe piugqhugqhoesjzhnghejshyxohznoehoejhyxrjskhUgqhng
pmnojhxahoejhfxtmyjoj,huphejhp mmxpjq,hfxgojtmohugqhngqnaajsjgfjhejhgxz
ajyohaxshenphznaj,huohoejhixooxthxahenphejusohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
ponyyheuqhxgjhajjyngbhyjaohnghsjbusqhoxhejs—uhqnpngfynguonxghoxhpjjhejs
asjjhoxhoesxzhnghejshyxohznoehRsxgplc,hpxhoeuohejshfsntjhzx yqhijhox
ejshuqrugoubjkhOejhtjsjhgxonxghxahoenphpxhjvupmjsuojqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hoeuohqnsjfoychnohsxpjhoxhenphtngqhejhbsxugjqhznoe
ngzusqhubxgc,hugqhbxoh mhugqhfeugbjqhenphmyufjhnghoejhfussnubj,hugqhaxs
uhyxgbhzenyjhuaojs,hejhpuohznoehpfxzyngbhisxzp,hzsummngbhenphg tijqhugq
ixgchyjbphnghoejhayjjfchs bk

“Umusohasxthaxstuyhqnrxsfj,hXgjhtnbeohponyyhqxhynljhLusniugxr,
Mupl qng,hugqhoeuohbxxqhajyyxzhQsut—oeuohnp,hpjmusuojhasxthxgj’phznaj,”
ejhzjgohxghoenglngb,hzejghejheuqhsjbungjqhenphfxtmxp sjkhI ohoenphpojm
oxxhmsjpjgojqhoejhputjhqsuziuflhxahm iynfhpfugquyhuphuhqnrxsfj,hugq
zeuohzuphtxsj,huhpjmusuonxg,hw nojhupht fehuphuhsjb yushqnrxsfj,hay gb
enphznajhngoxhoejhustphxahRsxgplckh“Gx,hno’phx ohxahoejhw jponxg,hx o
xahoejhw jponxg!”hejhpunqhubung,hoznpongbhenphs bhuix ohenthubungkh“N
fuggxohijh geummc,hi ohgjnoejshpejhgxshejhx beohoxhijheummck”

Oejhajjyngbhxah.juyx pc,hzenfeheuqhoxso sjqhenthq sngbhoejhmjsnxqhxa
 gfjsoungoc,heuqhmuppjqhuzuchuohoejhngpougohzejghoejhoxxoeheuqhijjg
znoehubxgchjvosufojqhichenphznaj’phzxsqpkhI ohoeuohajjyngbheuqhijjg
sjmyufjqhichugxoejs,hoejhqjpnsj,hgxohtjsjychoeuohpejhpex yqhgxohij
osn tmeugo,hi ohoeuohpejhpex yqhbjohq jhm gnpetjgohaxshejshfsntjkhEj
qnqhgxohuflgxzyjqbjhoenphajjyngb,hi ohuohoejhixooxthxahenphejusohej
yxgbjqhaxshejshoxhp aajshaxsheurngbhqjposxcjqhenphmjufjhxahtngq—enp
exgxskhUgqhbxngbhxgfjhubunghxrjshoejhfxgqnonxgphngpjmusuiyjhasxthu
q jy,huhqnrxsfj,huhpjmusuonxg,hugqhxgfjhubunghsj.jfongbhoejt,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehajyohfxgrngfjqhoeuohoejsjhzuphxgychxgjhpxy onxg,—oxhljjm
ejshznoehent,hfxgfjuyngbhzeuoheuqheummjgjqhasxthoejhzxsyq,hugqh pngb
jrjschtjup sjhnghenphmxzjshoxhisjulhxaahoejhngosnb j,hugqhponyy
txsj—oex behoenphejhqnqhgxohuqtnohoxhentpjya—oxhm gnpehejskh“Nht po
ngaxsthejshxahtchfxgfy pnxg,hoeuohoenglngbhxrjshoejhojssniyjhmxpnonxg
nghzenfehpejheuphmyufjqhejshautnyc,huyyhxoejshpxy onxgphznyyhijhzxspj
axshixoehpnqjphoeughughjvojsguyh_pouo phw x_,hugqhoeuohp fehNhubsjjhox
sjoung,hxghoejhposnfohfxgqnonxghxahxijqnjgfjhxghejshmusohoxhtchznpejp,
oeuohnphoxhpuc,hfjppuonxghxahuyyhngojsfx spjhznoehejshyxrjsk”hZejghoenp
qjfnpnxgheuqhijjghanguyychuqxmojq,hugxoejshzjnbeochfxgpnqjsuonxg
xff ssjqhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehnghp mmxsohxahnokh“Ichp fehuhfx spj
xgychpeuyyhNhijhufongbhnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoejhqnfouojphxahsjynbnxg,”hej
oxyqhentpjyakh“Nghuqxmongbhoenphfx spj,hNhuthgxohfupongbhxaahuhb nyoc
znaj,hi ohbnrngbhejshuhfeugfjhxahutjgqtjgo;hugq,hngqjjq,hqnaanf yohup
oejhouplhznyyhijhoxhtj,hNhpeuyyhqjrxojhmusohxahtchjgjsbnjphoxhejs
sjaxstuonxghugqhpuyruonxgk”

Oex behUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphmjsajfoychuzusjhoeuohejhfx yqhgxo
jvjsohugchtxsuyhngay jgfjhxrjshenphznaj,hoeuohp fehughuoojtmohuo
sjaxstuonxghfx yqhyjuqhoxhgxoengbhi ohauypnoc;hoex behnghmuppngb
oesx behoejpjhqnaanf yohtxtjgophejheuqhgxohxgfjhoex beohxahpjjlngb
b nqugfjhnghsjynbnxg,hcjohgxz,hzejghenphfxgfy pnxghfxssjpmxgqjq,huphno
pjjtjqhoxhent,hznoehoejhsjw nsjtjgophxahsjynbnxg,hoenphsjynbnx p
pugfonxghoxhenphqjfnpnxghburjhenthfxtmyjojhpuonpaufonxg,hugqhoxhpxtj
jvojgohsjpoxsjqhenphmjufjhxahtngqkhEjhzuphmyjupjqhoxhoenglhoeuo,hjrjg
nghp fehughntmxsougohfsnpnphnghynaj,hgxhxgjhzx yqhijhuiyjhoxhpuchoeuo
ejheuqhgxohufojqhnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoejhmsngfnmyjphxahoeuohsjynbnxg
zexpjhiuggjshejheuqhuyzucphejyqhuyxaohutnqhoejhbjgjsuyhfxxygjpphugq
ngqnaajsjgfjkhUphejhmxgqjsjqhxrjshp ipjw jgohqjrjyxmtjgop,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohpjj,hngqjjq,hzechenphsjyuonxgphznoehenphznaj
pex yqhgxohsjtunghmsufonfuyychoejhputjhuphijaxsjkhGxhqx io,hpejhfx yq
gjrjshsjbunghenphjpojjt,hi ohoejsjhzuphgxo,hugqhoejsjhfx yqhgxohij,hugc
pxsohxahsjupxghoeuohenphjvnpojgfjhpex yqhijhosx iyjq,hugqhoeuohej
pex yqhp aajshijfu pjhpejhzuphuhiuqhugqhaunoeyjpphznajkh“Cjp,hontjhznyy
mupp;hontj,hzenfehussugbjphuyyhoengbp,hugqhoejhxyqhsjyuonxgphznyyhij
sjjpouiynpejq,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxyqhentpjya;h“pxhaus
sjjpouiynpejq,hoeuohnp,hoeuohNhpeuyyhgxohijhpjgpniyjhxahuhisjulhnghoej
fxgong nochxahtchynajkhPejhnphix gqhoxhijh geummc,hi ohNhuthgxohox
iyutj,hugqhpxhNhfuggxohijh geummck”


Feumojsh14

UphejhgjusjqhMjojspi sb,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehgxohxgychuqejsjq
jgonsjychoxhenphqjfnpnxg,hi ohzuphjrjghfxtmxpngbhnghenphejuqhoejhyjoojs
ejhzx yqhzsnojhoxhenphznajkhBxngbhngoxhoejhmxsojs’phsxxt,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehbyugfjqhuohoejhyjoojsphugqhmumjsphisx beohasxthenp
xaanfj,hugqhqnsjfojqhoeuohoejchpex yqhijhisx beohoxhenthnghenphpo qck

“Oejhexspjphfughijhouljghx ohugqhNhznyyhpjjhgxhxgj,”hejhpunqhnghugpzjs
oxhoejhmxsojs,hznoehuhfjsounghmyjup sj,hngqnfuonrjhxahenphubsjjuiyj
asutjhxahtngq,hjtmeupndngbhoejhzxsqp,h“pjjhgxhxgjk”

Nghenphpo qchUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuyljqh mhugqhqxzghoznfj,hugq
poxmmjqhuohughnttjgpjhzsnongb-ouiyj,hxghzenfehpnvhfugqyjpheuqhuysjuqc
ijjghynbeojqhichoejhruyjohzexheuqhmsjfjqjqhentkhEjhfsufljqhenphlg flyjp
ugqhpuohqxzg,hpxsongbhx ohenphzsnongbhumm sojgugfjpkhM oongbhenphjyixzp
xghoejhouiyj,hejhijgohenphejuqhxghxgjhpnqj,hoex beohuhtng oj,hugqhijbug
oxhzsnoj,hznoex ohmu pngbhaxshuhpjfxgqkhEjhzsxojhznoex oh pngbhugchaxst
xahuqqsjpphoxhejs,hugqhzsxojhnghAsjgfe,htulngbh pjhxahoejhmy suy
“_rx p_,”hzenfeheuphgxohoejhputjhgxojhxahfxyqgjpphuphoejhfxssjpmxgqngb
S ppnughaxstk





“Uohx shyupohfxgrjspuonxg,hNhgxonanjqhcx hxahtchngojgonxghox
fxtt gnfuojhoxhcx htchqjfnpnxghnghsjbusqhoxhoejhp i.jfohxahoeuo
fxgrjspuonxgkhEurngbhfusja yychfxgpnqjsjqhjrjscoengb,hNhuthzsnongbhgxz
znoehoejhxi.jfohxaha yanyyngbhoeuohmsxtnpjkhTchqjfnpnxghnphuphaxyyxzpk
Zeuojrjshcx shfxgq fohtucheurjhijjg,hNhqxhgxohfxgpnqjshtcpjyah. ponanjq
nghisjulngbhoejhonjphnghzenfehzjhusjhix gqhichuhEnbejshMxzjskhOej
autnychfuggxohijhisxljgh mhichuhzent,huhfumsnfj,hxshjrjghichoejhpnghxa
xgjhxahoejhmusogjsphnghoejhtussnubj,hugqhx shynajht pohbxhxghuphnoheup
qxgjhnghoejhmupokhOenphnphjppjgonuyhaxshtj,haxshcx ,hugqhaxshx shpxgkhN
utha yychmjsp uqjqhoeuohcx heurjhsjmjgojqhugqhqxhsjmjgohxahzeuoheup
fuyyjqhaxsoehoejhmsjpjgohyjoojs,hugqhoeuohcx hznyyhfxxmjsuojhznoehtjhng
jsuqnfuongbhoejhfu pjhxahx shjposugbjtjgo,hugqhaxsbjoongbhoejhmupokhNg
oejhfxgosuschjrjgo,hcx hfughfxg.jfo sjhzeuohuzunophcx hugqhcx shpxgk
UyyhoenphNhexmjhoxhqnpf pphtxsjhnghqjounyhnghuhmjspxguyhngojsrnjzkhUp
oejhpjupxghnphqsuzngbhoxhuhfyxpj,hNhzx yqhijbhcx hoxhsjo sghox
Mjojspi sbhuphw nflychuphmxppniyj,hgxohyuojshoeughO jpquckhUyy
gjfjppuschmsjmusuonxgphpeuyyhijhtuqjhaxshcx shussnruyhejsjkhNhijbhcx 
oxhgxojhoeuohNhuooufehmusonf yushpnbgnanfugfjhoxhfxtmynugfjhznoehoenp
sjw jpok

UkhLusjgng

“_MkPk_—Nhjgfyxpjhoejhtxgjchzenfehtuchijhgjjqjqhaxshcx shjvmjgpjpk”





Ejhsjuqhoejhyjoojshoesx behugqhajyohmyjupjqhznoehno,hugqhjpmjfnuyyc
oeuohejheuqhsjtjtijsjqhoxhjgfyxpjhtxgjc:hoejsjhzuphgxohuheuspehzxsq,
gxohuhsjmsxufehnghno,hgxshzuphoejsjh gq jhngq ybjgfjkhTxpohxahuyy,hno
zuphuhbxyqjghisnqbjhaxshsjo sgkhAxyqngbhoejhyjoojshugqhptxxoengbhno
znoehuhtuppnrjhnrxschlgnaj,hugqhm oongbhnohnghughjgrjyxmjhznoehoej
txgjc,hejhsugbhoejhijyyhznoehoejhbsuonanfuonxghnohuyzucphuaaxsqjqhent
oxh pjhoejhzjyyhussugbjqhummxngotjgophxahenphzsnongb-ouiyjk

“Bnrjhoenphoxhoejhfx snjshoxhijhqjynrjsjqhoxhUgguhUsluqcjrguhoxtxssxz
uohoejhp ttjshrnyyu,”hejhpunq,hbjoongbh mk

“Fjsoungyc,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc;hojuhoxhijhpjsrjqhnghoejhpo qc?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehxsqjsjqhojuhoxhijhisx beohoxhoejhpo qc,hugq
myucngbhznoehoejhtuppnrjhmumjs-lgnaj,hejhtxrjqhoxhenphjupchfeuns,hgjus
zenfehoejsjheuqhijjghmyufjqhsjuqchaxshenthuhyutmhugqhoejhAsjgfehzxslhxg
Jbcmonughenjsxbycmenfphoeuohejheuqhijb gkhXrjshoejhjupchfeunshoejsj
e gbhnghuhbxyqhasutjhughxruyhmxsosunohxahUggu,huhangjhmungongbhichu
fjyjisuojqhusonpokhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbyugfjqhuohnokhOej
 gauoextuiyjhjcjphbudjqhnsxgnfuyychugqhngpxyjgoychuohentkhNgp aajsuiyc
ngpxyjgohugqhfeuyyjgbngbhzuphoejhjaajfohnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phjcjp
xahoejhiyuflhyufjhuix ohoejhejuq,huqtnsuiychox fejqhnghichoejhmungojs,
oejhiyuflheunshugqheugqpxtjhzenojheugqhznoehxgjhangbjshynaojq,hfxrjsjq
znoehsngbpkhUaojshyxxlngbhuohoejhmxsosunohaxshuhtng oj,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehpe qqjsjqhpxhoeuohenphynmphw nrjsjqhugqhejh oojsjqhoej
px gqh“isss,”hugqho sgjqhuzuckhEjhtuqjheupojhoxhpnohqxzghnghenphjupc
feunshugqhxmjgjqhoejhixxlkhEjhosnjqhoxhsjuq,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohsjrnrj
oejhrjschrnrnqhngojsjpohejheuqhajyohijaxsjhnghJbcmonughenjsxbycmenfpk
Ejhyxxljqhuohoejhixxlhugqhoex beohxahpxtjoengbhjypjkhEjhoex beohgxohxa
enphznaj,hi ohxahuhfxtmynfuonxghoeuoheuqhusnpjghnghenphxaanfnuyhynaj,
zenfehuohoejhontjhfxgpono ojqhoejhfenjahngojsjpohxahnokhEjhajyohoeuohej
euqhmjgjosuojqhtxsjhqjjmychoeughjrjshijaxsjhngoxhoenphngosnfuojhuaauns,
ugqhoeuohejheuqhxsnbnguojqhuhyjuqngbhnqju—ejhfx yqhpuchnohznoex o
pjya-ayuoojsc—fuyf yuojqhoxhfyjush mhoejhzexyjhi pngjpp,hoxhposjgboejg
enthnghenphxaanfnuyhfusjjs,hoxhqnpfxtanohenphjgjtnjp,hugqhoejsjichoxhij
xahoejhbsjuojpohijgjanohoxhoejhbxrjsgtjgokhQnsjfoychoejhpjsrugoheuqhpjo
oejhojuhugqhyjaohoejhsxxt,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbxoh mhugqhzjgohoxhoej
zsnongb-ouiyjkhTxrngbhngoxhoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhouiyjhuhmxsoaxynxhxa
mumjsp,hznoehuhpfusfjychmjsfjmoniyjhptnyjhxahpjya-puonpaufonxg,hejhoxxl
uhmjgfnyhasxthuhsuflhugqhmy gbjqhngoxhoejhmjs puyhxahuhfxtmyjvhsjmxso
sjyuongbhoxhoejhmsjpjgohfxtmynfuonxgkhOejhfxtmynfuonxghzuphxahoenp
guo sj:hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phfeusufojsnponfhw uynochuphuhmxynonfnug,
oeuohpmjfnuyhngqnrnq uyhw uynanfuonxghoeuohjrjschsnpngbha gfonxgusc
mxppjppjp,hoejhw uynanfuonxghoeuohznoehenph gayubbngbhutinonxg,henp
sjpjsrj,henphexgjpoc,hugqhznoehenphpjya-fxganqjgfjheuqhtuqjhenphfusjjs,
zuphenphfxgojtmohaxshsjqhoumj,henphf oongbhqxzghxahfxssjpmxgqjgfj,henp
qnsjfohfxgoufo,hzejsjrjshmxppniyj,hznoehoejhynrngbhaufo,hugqhenp
jfxgxtckhNoheummjgjqhoeuohoejhautx phFxttnppnxghxahoejh2gqhxah. gjheuq
pjohxghaxxohughngw nschngoxhoejhnssnbuonxghxahyugqphnghoejhDusunplc
msxrngfj,hzenfehajyyh gqjshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phqjmusotjgo,hugqhzup
uhbyusngbhjvutmyjhxahas noyjpphjvmjgqno sjhugqhmumjshsjaxstpkhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzuphuzusjhxahoejhos oehxahoenpkhOejhnssnbuonxghxahoejpj
yugqphnghoejhDusunplchmsxrngfjheuqhijjghngnonuojqhichoejhmsjqjfjppxshxa
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phmsjqjfjppxskhUgqhrupohp tphxahtxgjcheuq
ufo uyychijjghpmjgohugqhzjsjhponyyhijngbhpmjgohxghoenphi pngjpp,hugq
 oojsych gmsxq fonrjyc,hugqhoejhzexyjhi pngjpphfx yqhxirnx pychyjuqhox
gxoengbhzeuojrjskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhmjsfjnrjqhoenphuohxgfjhxg
jgojsngbhxaanfj,hugqhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhyucheugqphxghoejhIxusqhxa
NssnbuonxgkhI ohuohanspo,hzejghejhqnqhgxohcjohajjyhpjf sjhnghenp
mxpnonxg,hejhlgjzhnohzx yqhuaajfohoxxhtugchngojsjpop,hugqhzx yqhij
ng. qnfnx pkhYuojshxghejheuqhijjghjgbsxppjqhnghxoejshw jponxgp,hugqheuq
pntmychaxsbxoojghoejhIxusqhxahNssnbuonxgkhNohzjgohxahnopjya,hynljhuyy
p fehixusqp,hichoejhtjsjhaxsfjhxahngjsonukh(Tugchmjxmyjhbungjqhoejns
ynrjynexxqhichoejhIxusqhxahNssnbuonxg,hjpmjfnuyychxgjhenbeyc
fxgpfnjgonx phugqht pnfuyhautnyc:huyyhoejhqu beojsphmyucjqhxghposngbjq
ngpos tjgop,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlgjzhoejhautnychugqheuqhpoxxq
bxqauoejshoxhxgjhxahoejhjyqjshqu beojspk)hOejhsunpngbhxahoenphw jponxg
ichuhexponyjhqjmusotjgohzuphnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phxmngnxghu
qnpexgxsuiyjhmsxfjjqngb,hpjjngbhoeuohnghjrjschqjmusotjgohoejsjhzjsj
oengbphpntnyushugqhzxspj,hzenfehgxhxgjhngw nsjqhngox,haxshzjyy-lgxzg
sjupxgphxahxaanfnuyhjonw joojkhExzjrjs,hgxzhoeuohoejhbyxrjheuqhijjg
oesxzghqxzghoxhent,hejheuqhixyqychmnfljqhnoh mhugqhqjtugqjqhoej
ummxngotjgohxahuhpmjfnuyhfxttnppnxghoxhngrjponbuojhugqhrjsnachoej
zxslngbhxahoejhIxusqhxahNssnbuonxghxahoejhyugqphnghoejhDusunplc
msxrngfjkhI ohnghfxtmjgpuonxghejhburjhgxhw usojshoxhoejhjgjtchjnoejsk
Ejhqjtugqjqhoejhummxngotjgohxahugxoejshpmjfnuyhfxttnppnxghoxhngw nsj
ngoxhoejhw jponxghxahoejhGuonrjhOsnijphXsbugnduonxghFxttnoojjkhOej
w jponxghxahoejhGuonrjhOsnijpheuqhijjghisx beoh mhngfnqjgouyychnghoej
Fxttnppnxghxahoejh2gqhxah. gj,hugqheuqhijjghmsjppjqhaxszusqhufonrjychic
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuphxgjhuqtnoongbhxahgxhqjyuchxghuffx gohxahoej
qjmyxsuiyjhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijpkhNghoejhfxttnppnxghoenp
w jponxgheuqhijjghuhbsx gqhxahfxgojgonxghijozjjghpjrjsuyhqjmusotjgopk
OejhqjmusotjgohexponyjhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmsxrjqhoeuohoej
fxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijphzuphjvfjjqngbychayx snpengb,hoeuohoej
msxmxpjqhsjfxgpos fonxghtnbeohijhoejhs nghxahoejnshmsxpmjsnoc,hugqhoeuo
nahoejsjhzjsjhugcoengbhzsxgb,hnohusxpjhtungychasxthoejhauny sjhxghoej
musohxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phqjmusotjgohoxhfusschx ohoejhtjup sjp
msjpfsnijqhichyuzkhGxzhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehngojgqjqhoxhqjtugq:hAnspo,
oeuohuhgjzhfxttnppnxghpex yqhijhaxstjqhzenfehpex yqhijhjtmxzjsjqhox
ngrjponbuojhoejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijphxghoejhpmxo;hpjfxgqyc,
nahnohpex yqhummjushoeuohoejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijphufo uyyc
zuphp fehuphnohummjusjqhoxhijhasxthoejhxaanfnuyhqxf tjgophnghoejheugqp
xahoejhfxttnoojj,hoeuohugxoejshgjzhpfnjgonanfhfxttnppnxghpex yqhij
ummxngojqhoxhngrjponbuojhoejhqjmyxsuiyjhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijp
asxthoej—(1)hmxynonfuy,h(2)huqtngnposuonrj,h(3)hjfxgxtnf,h(4)
joegxbsumenfuy,h(5)htuojsnuy,hugqh(6)hsjynbnx phmxngophxahrnjz;
oensqyc,hoeuohjrnqjgfjhpex yqhijhsjw nsjqhasxthoejhsnruyhqjmusotjgohxa
oejhtjup sjphoeuoheuqhijjghouljghq sngbhoejhyupohojghcjusphichoeuo
qjmusotjgohaxshurjsongbhoejhqnpuposx phfxgqnonxgphnghzenfehoejhguonrj
osnijphzjsjhgxzhmyufjq;hugqhax soeychugqhanguyyc,hoeuohoeuohqjmusotjgo
jvmyunghzechnoheuq,huphummjusjqhasxthoejhjrnqjgfjhijaxsjhoejhfxttnoojj,
asxthGxkh17,015hugqh18,038,hasxthQjfjtijsh5,h1863,hugqh. gjh7,h1864,
ufojqhnghqnsjfohfxgosurjgonxghxahoejhngojgohxahoejhyuzhOkkkhUfoh18,hugq
oejhgxojhoxhUfoh36khUhayupehxahjubjsgjpphp aa pjqhoejhaufjhxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehuphejhsumnqychzsxojhx ohuhpcgxmpnphxahoejpjhnqjuphaxs
enphxzghijgjanokhEurngbhanyyjqhuhpejjohxahmumjs,hejhbxoh m,hsugb,hugq
pjgohuhgxojhoxhoejhfenjahpjfsjouschxahenphqjmusotjgohoxhyxxlh mhfjsoung
gjfjppuschaufophaxshentkhBjoongbh mhugqhzuylngbhuix ohoejhsxxt,hej
byugfjqhubunghuohoejhmxsosuno,hasxzgjq,hugqhptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pyck
UaojshsjuqngbhuhynooyjhtxsjhxahoejhixxlhxghJbcmonughenjsxbycmenfp,hugq
sjgjzngbhenphngojsjpohnghno,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohoxhijqhuo
jyjrjghx’fyxfl,hugqhsjfxyyjfongbhuphejhyuchnghijqhoejhngfnqjgohznoehenp
znaj,hejhpuzhnohgxzhnghichgxhtjugphp fehuhbyxxtchynbeok


Feumojsh15

Oex behUgguheuqhxiponguojychugqhznoehjvupmjsuonxghfxgosuqnfojqhRsxgplc
zejghejhoxyqhejshoejnshmxpnonxghzuphntmxppniyj,huohoejhixooxthxahejs
ejusohpejhsjbusqjqhejshxzghmxpnonxghuphauypjhugqhqnpexgxsuiyj,hugqhpej
yxgbjqhznoehejshzexyjhpx yhoxhfeugbjhnokhXghoejhzuchextjhasxthoejhsufjp
pejheuqhoxyqhejshe piugqhoejhos oehnghuhtxtjgohxahjvfnojtjgo,hugqhng
pmnojhxahoejhubxgchpejheuqhp aajsjqhnghqxngbhpx,hpejhzuphbyuqhxahnok
Uaojshejshe piugqheuqhyjaohejs,hpejhoxyqhejspjyahoeuohpejhzuphbyuq,
oeuohgxzhjrjscoengbhzuphtuqjhfyjus,hugqhuohyjupohoejsjhzx yqhijhgxhtxsj
ycngbhugqhqjfjmonxgkhNohpjjtjqhoxhejshijcxgqhqx iohoeuohejshmxpnonxg
zuphgxzhtuqjhfyjushaxsjrjskhNohtnbeohijhiuq,hoenphgjzhmxpnonxg,hi ohno
zx yqhijhfyjus;hoejsjhzx yqhijhgxhngqjangnojgjpphxshauypjexxqhuix ohnok
Oejhmunghpejheuqhfu pjqhejspjyahugqhejshe piugqhngh oojsngbhoexpjhzxsqp
zx yqhijhsjzusqjqhgxzhichjrjscoengbhijngbhtuqjhfyjus,hpejhoex beokhOeuo
jrjgngbhpejhpuzhRsxgplc,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohojyyhenthxahzeuoheuqhmuppjq
ijozjjghejshugqhejshe piugq,hoex be,hoxhtuljhoejhmxpnonxghqjangnoj,hno
zuphgjfjppuschoxhojyyhentk

Zejghpejhzxljh mhgjvohtxsgngbhoejhanspohoengbhoeuohsxpjhoxhejshtngqhzup
zeuohpejheuqhpunqhoxhejshe piugq,hugqhoexpjhzxsqphpjjtjqhoxhejshpx
uza yhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohfxgfjnrjhgxzhexzhpejhfx yqheurjhisx beo
ejspjyahoxh oojshoexpjhposugbj,hfxuspjhzxsqp,hugqhfx yqhgxohntubngj
zeuohzx yqhfxtjhxahnokhI ohoejhzxsqphzjsjhpmxljg,hugqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhbxgjhuzuchznoex ohpucngbhugcoengbkh“NhpuzhRsxgplc
ugqhqnqhgxohojyyhentkhUohoejhrjschngpougohejhzuphbxngbhuzuchNhzx yq
eurjho sgjqhenthiuflhugqhoxyqhent,hi ohNhfeugbjqhtchtngq,hijfu pjhno
zuphposugbjhoeuohNheuqhgxohoxyqhenthoejhanspohtng ojkhZechzuphnohN
zugojqhoxhojyyhenthugqhqnqhgxohojyyhent?”hUgqhnghugpzjshoxhoenp
w jponxghuhi sgngbhiy pehxahpeutjhpmsjuqhxrjshejshaufjkhPejhlgjzhzeuo
euqhljmohejshasxthno,hpejhlgjzhoeuohpejheuqhijjghupeutjqkhEjshmxpnonxg,
zenfeheuqhpjjtjqhoxhejshpntmynanjqhoejhgnbeohijaxsj,hp qqjgychpos fl
ejshgxzhuphgxohxgychgxohpntmyj,hi ohuphuipxy ojychexmjyjppkhPejhajyo
ojssnanjqhuohoejhqnpbsufj,hxahzenfehpejheuqhgxohjrjshoex beohijaxsjk
Qnsjfoychpejhoex beohxahzeuohejshe piugqhzx yqhqx,hoejhtxpohojssniyj
nqjuphfutjhoxhejshtngqkhPejheuqhuhrnpnxghxahijngbho sgjqhx ohxahoej
ex pj,hxahejshpeutjhijngbhmsxfyuntjqhoxhuyyhoejhzxsyqkhPejhupljq
ejspjyahzejsjhpejhpex yqhbxhzejghpejhzupho sgjqhx ohxahoejhex pj,hugq
pejhfx yqhgxohangqhughugpzjsk

Zejghpejhoex beohxahRsxgplc,hnohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuohejhqnqhgxohyxrjhejs,
oeuohejhzuphuysjuqchijbnggngbhoxhijhonsjqhxahejs,hoeuohpejhfx yqhgxo
xaajshejspjyahoxhent,hugqhpejhajyohinoojshubungpohenthaxshnokhNohpjjtjq
oxhejshoeuohoejhzxsqphoeuohpejheuqhpmxljghoxhejshe piugq,hugqheuq
fxgong uyychsjmjuojqhnghejshntubnguonxg,hpejheuqhpunqhoxhjrjscxgj,hugq
jrjscxgjheuqhejusqhoejtkhPejhfx yqhgxohisngbhejspjyahoxhyxxlhoexpjhxa
ejshxzghex pjexyqhnghoejhaufjkhPejhfx yqhgxohisngbhejspjyahoxhfuyyhejs
tunq,hugqhponyyhyjpphbxhqxzgpounsphugqhpjjhejshpxghugqhenphbxrjsgjppk

Oejhtunq,hzexheuqhijjghynpojgngbhuohejshqxxshaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,hfutj
ngoxhejshsxxthxahejshxzghuffxsqkhUgguhbyugfjqhngw nsngbychngoxhejs
aufj,hugqhiy pejqhznoehuhpfusjqhyxxlkhOejhtunqhijbbjqhejshmusqxghaxs
fxtngbhng,hpucngbhoeuohpejheuqhaugfnjqhoejhijyyhsugbkhPejhisx beohejs
fyxoejphugqhuhgxojkhOejhgxojhzuphasxthIjopckhIjopchsjtngqjqhejshoeuo
YnduhTjsluyxruhugqhIusxgjpphPeoxyodhzjsjhfxtngbhoxhmyuchfsxw johznoe
ejshoeuohtxsgngbhznoehoejnshuqxsjsp,hLuy deplchugqhxyqhPosjtxrkh“Fxtj,
nahxgychuphuhpo qchnghtxsuypkhNhpeuyyhjvmjfohcx ,”hpejhangnpejqk

Ugguhsjuqhoejhgxojhugqhejurjqhuhqjjmhpnbek

“Gxoengb,hNhgjjqhgxoengb,”hpejhpunqhoxhUgg pelu,hzexhzuphsjussugbngb
oejhixooyjphugqhis pejphxghoejhqsjppngbhouiyjkh“Cx hfughbxkhN’yyhqsjpp
uohxgfjhugqhfxtjhqxzgkhNhgjjqhgxoengbk”

Ugg peluhzjgohx o,hi ohUgguhqnqhgxohijbnghqsjppngb,hugqhpuohnghoejhputj
mxpnonxg,hejshejuqhugqheugqpheugbngbhynpoyjppyc,hugqhjrjschgxzhugqhoejg
pejhpenrjsjqhuyyhxrjs,hpjjtjqhuphoex behpejhzx yqhtuljhpxtjhbjpo sj,
 oojshpxtjhzxsq,hugqhpuglhiuflhngoxhynajyjppgjpphubungkhPejhsjmjuojq
fxgong uyyc,h“TchBxq!htchBxq!”hI ohgjnoejsh“Bxq”hgxsh“tc”heuqhugc
tjugngbhoxhejskhOejhnqjuhxahpjjlngbhejymhnghejshqnaanf yochnghsjynbnxg
zuphuphsjtxojhasxthejshuphpjjlngbhejymhasxthUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
entpjya,huyoex behpejheuqhgjrjsheuqhqx iophxahoejhaunoehnghzenfehpej
euqhijjghisx beoh mkhPejhlgjzhoeuohoejhp mmxsohxahsjynbnxghzuphmxppniyj
xgych mxghfxgqnonxghxahsjgx gfngbhzeuohtuqjh mhaxshejshoejhzexyj
tjugngbhxahynajkhPejhzuphgxohpntmychtnpjsuiyj,hpejhijbughoxhajjyhuyust
uohoejhgjzhpmnsno uyhfxgqnonxg,hgjrjshjvmjsnjgfjqhijaxsj,hnghzenfehpej
ax gqhejspjyakhPejhajyohuphoex behjrjscoengbhzjsjhijbnggngbhoxhij
qx iyjhnghejshpx y,h. pohuphxi.jfophpxtjontjphummjushqx iyjhox
xrjs-onsjqhjcjpkhPejheusqychlgjzhuohontjphzeuohnohzuphpejhajusjq,hugq
zeuohpejhexmjqhaxskhZejoejshpejhajusjqhxshqjpnsjqhzeuoheuqheummjgjq,hxs
zeuohzuphbxngbhoxheummjg,hugqhjvufoychzeuohpejhyxgbjqhaxs,hpejhfx yq
gxoheurjhpunqk

“Ue,hzeuohuthNhqxngb!”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hajjyngbhuhp qqjghoesnyyhxa
munghnghixoehpnqjphxahejshejuqkhZejghpejhfutjhoxhejspjya,hpejhpuzhoeuo
pejhzuphexyqngbhejsheunshnghixoeheugqp,hjufehpnqjhxahejshojtmyjp,hugq
m yyngbhnokhPejh. tmjqh m,hugqhijbughzuylngbhuix ok

“Oejhfxaajjhnphsjuqc,hugqhtuqjtxnpjyyjhugqhPjscxdeuhusjhzunongb,”hpunq
Ugg pelu,hfxtngbhiuflhubunghugqhangqngbhUgguhnghoejhputjhmxpnonxgk

“Pjscxdeu?hZeuohuix ohPjscxdeu?”hUgguhupljq,hznoehp qqjghjubjsgjpp,
sjfxyyjfongbhejshpxg’phjvnpojgfjhaxshoejhanspohontjhoeuohtxsgngbk

“Ej’phijjghgu beoc,hNhoengl,”hugpzjsjqhUgg peluhznoehuhptnyjk

“Nghzeuohzuc?”

“PxtjhmjufejphzjsjhycngbhxghoejhouiyjhnghoejhfxsgjshsxxtkhNhoenglhej
pynmmjqhnghugqhuojhxgjhxahoejthxghoejhpyck”

Oejhsjfxyyjfonxghxahejshpxghp qqjgychsx pjqhUgguhasxthoejhejymyjpp
fxgqnonxghnghzenfehpejhax gqhejspjyakhPejhsjfuyyjqhoejhmusoychpngfjsj,
oex behbsjuoychjvubbjsuojq,hsôyjhxahoejhtxoejshynrngbhaxshejshfenyq,
zenfehpejheuqhouljgh mhxahyuojhcjusp,hugqhpejhajyohznoeh.xchoeuohnghoej
mynbeohnghzenfehpejhax gqhejspjyahpejheuqhuhp mmxso,hw nojhumusohasxt
ejshsjyuonxghoxhejshe piugqhxshoxhRsxgplckhOenphp mmxsohzuphejshpxgkhNg
zeuojrjshmxpnonxghpejhtnbeohijhmyufjq,hpejhfx yqhgxohyxpjhejshpxgkhEjs
e piugqhtnbeohm ohejshoxhpeutjhugqho sghejshx o,hRsxgplchtnbeohbsxz
fxyqhoxhejshugqhbxhxghynrngbhenphxzghynajhumusoh(pejhoex beohxahent
ubunghznoehinoojsgjpphugqhsjmsxufe);hpejhfx yqhgxohyjurjhejshpxgkhPej
euqhughunthnghynajkhUgqhpejht pohufo;hufohoxhpjf sjhoenphsjyuonxghox
ejshpxg,hpxhoeuohejhtnbeohgxohijhouljghasxthejskhW nflychngqjjq,hup
w nflychuphmxppniyj,hpejht pohouljhufonxghijaxsjhejhzuphouljghasxthejsk
Pejht pohouljhejshpxghugqhbxhuzuckhEjsjhzuphoejhxgjhoengbhpejheuqhoxhqx
gxzkhPejhgjjqjqhfxgpxyuonxgkhPejht pohijhfuyt,hugqhbjohx ohxahoenp
ngp aajsuiyjhmxpnonxgkhOejhoex beohxahnttjqnuojhufonxghingqngbhejshox
ejshpxg,hxahbxngbhuzuchpxtjzejsjhznoehent,hburjhejshoenphfxgpxyuonxgk

Pejhqsjppjqhw nflyc,hzjgohqxzgpounsp,hugqhznoehsjpxy ojhpojmphzuyljq
ngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejsjhpejhax gq,huph p uy,hzunongbhaxshejs,hoej
fxaajj,hPjscxdeu,hugqhenphbxrjsgjppkhPjscxdeu,huyyhnghzenoj,hznoehenp
iuflhugqhejuqhijgo,hzuphpougqngbhuohuhouiyjh gqjshuhyxxlngb-byupp,hugq
znoehughjvmsjppnxghxahngojgpjhfxgfjgosuonxghzenfehpejhlgjzhzjyy,hugqhng
zenfehejhsjpjtiyjqhenphauoejs,hejhzuphqxngbhpxtjoengbhoxhoejhayxzjsphej
fussnjqk

Oejhbxrjsgjppheuqhuhmusonf yusychpjrjsjhjvmsjppnxgkhPjscxdeuhpfsjutjq
pesnyyc,huphejhxaojghqnq,h“Ue,htuttu!”hugqhpoxmmjq,hejpnouongbhzejoejs
oxhbxhoxhbsjjohenphtxoejshugqhm ohqxzghoejhayxzjsp,hxshoxhangnpehtulngb
oejhzsjuoehugqhbxhznoehoejhayxzjspk

Oejhbxrjsgjpp,huaojshpucngbhbxxq-txsgngb,hijbughuhyxgbhugqhqjounyjq
uffx gohxahPjscxdeu’phgu beongjpp,hi ohUgguhqnqhgxohejushejs;hpejhzup
fxgpnqjsngbhzejoejshpejhzx yqhouljhejshznoehejshxshgxokh“Gx,hNhzxg’o
ouljhejs,”hpejhqjfnqjqkh“N’yyhbxhuyxgjhznoehtchfenyqk”

“Cjp,hno’phrjschzsxgb,”hpunqhUggu,hugqhoulngbhejshpxghichoejhpex yqjs
pejhyxxljqhuohent,hgxohpjrjsjyc,hi ohznoehuhontnqhbyugfjhoeuo
ijznyqjsjqhugqhqjynbeojqhoejhixc,hugqhpejhlnppjqhentkh“Yjurjhenthox
tj,”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhupoxgnpejqhbxrjsgjpp,hugqhgxohyjoongbhbxhxahejs
pxg,hpejhpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyj,hzejsjhfxaajjhzuphpjohsjuqchaxshejsk

“Tuttu!hNhkkkhNhkkkhqnqg’okkkk”hejhpunq,hoscngbhoxhtuljhx ohasxthejs
jvmsjppnxghzeuohzuphnghpoxsjhaxshenthnghsjbusqhoxhoejhmjufejpk

“Pjscxdeu,”hpejhpunq,huphpxxghuphoejhbxrjsgjppheuqhyjaohoejhsxxt,h“oeuo
zuphzsxgb,hi ohcx ’yyhgjrjshqxhnohubung,hznyyhcx ?kkkhCx hyxrjhtj?”

Pejhajyohoeuohoejhojusphzjsjhfxtngbhngoxhejshjcjpkh“FughNhejymhyxrngb
ent?”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hyxxlngbhqjjmychngoxhenphpfusjqhugqhuohoej
putjhontjhqjynbeojqhjcjpkh“Ugqhfughejhjrjsh.xnghenphauoejshnghm gnpengb
tj?hNphnohmxppniyjhejhznyyhgxohajjyhaxshtj?”hOjusphzjsjhuysjuqchayxzngb
qxzghejshaufj,hugqhoxhenqjhoejthpejhbxoh mhuis moychugqhuytxpohsughx o
xghoxhoejhojssufjk

Uaojshoejhoe gqjshpexzjsphxahoejhyupohajzhqucp,hfxyq,hisnbeohzjuoejs
euqhpjohngkhOejhunshzuphfxyqhnghoejhisnbeohp ghoeuohanyojsjqhoesx be
oejhasjpeychzupejqhyjurjpk

Pejhpenrjsjq,hixoehasxthoejhfxyqhugqhasxthoejhngzusqhexssxshzenfeheuq
fy ofejqhejshznoehasjpehaxsfjhnghoejhxmjghunsk

“S ghuyxgb,hs ghuyxgbhoxhTusnjooj,”hpejhpunqhoxhPjscxdeu,hzexheuq
axyyxzjqhejshx o,hugqhpejhijbughzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghxghoejhposuz
tuoongbhxahoejhojssufjkh“Fughnohijhoeuohoejchzxg’ohaxsbnrjhtj,hzxg’o
 gqjspougqhexzhnohuyyhfx yqg’ohijhejymjq?”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyak

Pougqngbhponyy,hugqhyxxlngbhuohoejhoxmphxahoejhupmjghosjjphzurngbhng
oejhzngq,hznoehoejnshasjpeychzupejq,hisnbeoychpengngbhyjurjphnghoej
fxyqhp gpengj,hpejhlgjzhoeuohoejchzx yqhgxohaxsbnrjhejs,hoeuohjrjscxgj
ugqhjrjscoengbhzx yqhijhtjsfnyjpphoxhejshgxzhuphzuphoeuohplc,hoeuo
bsjjgkhUgqhubunghpejhajyohoeuohjrjscoengbhzuphpmynohnghozxhnghejshpx yk
“Nht pog’o,ht pog’ohoengl,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyakh“Nht pohbjohsjuqckhOx
bxhzejsj?hZejg?hZexthoxhouljhznoehtj?hCjp,hoxhTxpfxzhichoejhjrjgngb
osungkhUgg peluhugqhPjscxdeu,hugqhxgychoejhtxpohgjfjppuschoengbpkhI o
anspohNht pohzsnojhoxhoejthixoek”hPejhzjgohw nflychngqxxsphngoxhejs
ix qxns,hpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyj,hugqhzsxojhoxhejshe piugq:—“Uaojshzeuo
eupheummjgjq,hNhfuggxohsjtunghugchyxgbjshnghcx shex pjkhNhuthbxngb
uzuc,hugqhoulngbhtchpxghznoehtjkhNhqxg’ohlgxzhoejhyuz,hugqhpxhNhqxg’o
lgxzhznoehzenfehxahoejhmusjgophoejhpxghpex yqhsjtung;hi ohNhouljhent
znoehtjhijfu pjhNhfuggxohynrjhznoex ohentkhIjhbjgjsx p,hyjurjhenthox
tjk”

 mhoxhoenphmxngohpejhzsxojhsumnqychugqhguo suyyc,hi ohoejhummjuyhoxhenp
bjgjsxpnoc,huhw uynochpejhqnqhgxohsjfxbgndjhnghent,hugqhoejhgjfjppnoc
xahzngqngbh mhoejhyjoojshznoehpxtjoengbhox fengb,hm yyjqhejsh mkh“Xahtc
au yohugqhtchsjtxspjhNhfuggxohpmjul,hijfu pjkkkk”

Pejhpoxmmjqhubung,hangqngbhgxhfxggjfonxghnghejshnqjupkh“Gx,”hpejhpunq
oxhejspjya,h“oejsj’phgxhgjjqhxahugcoengb,”hugqhojusngbh mhoejhyjoojs,
pejhzsxojhnohubung,hyjurngbhx ohoejhuyy pnxghoxhbjgjsxpnoc,hugqhpjuyjq
noh mk

UgxoejshyjoojsheuqhoxhijhzsnoojghoxhRsxgplckh“Nheurjhoxyqhtche piugq,”
pejhzsxoj,hugqhpejhpuohuhyxgbhzenyjh guiyjhoxhzsnojhtxsjkhNohzuphpx
fxuspj,hpxh gajtngngjkh“UgqhzeuohtxsjhuthNhoxhzsnojhoxhent?”hpejhpunq
oxhejspjyakhUbunghuhay pehxahpeutjhpmsjuqhxrjshejshaufj;hpejhsjfuyyjq
enphfxtmxp sj,hugqhuhajjyngbhxahugbjshubungpohenthntmjyyjqhejshoxhojus
oejhpejjohznoehoejhmesupjhpejheuqhzsnoojghngoxhongchinopkh“Gxhgjjqhxa
ugcoengb,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hugqhfyxpngbhejshiyxoongb-fupjhpejhzjgo
 mpounsp,hoxyqhoejhbxrjsgjpphugqhoejhpjsrugophoeuohpejhzuphbxngbhoeuo
quchoxhTxpfxz,hugqhuohxgfjhpjohoxhzxslhoxhmuflh mhejshoengbpk


Feumojsh16

Uyyhoejhsxxtphxahoejhp ttjshrnyyuhzjsjha yyhxahmxsojsp,hbusqjgjsp,hugq
axxotjghbxngbhoxhugqhasxhfusscngbhx ohoengbpkhF mixusqphugqhfejpophzjsj
xmjg;hoznfjhoejcheuqhpjgohoxhoejhpexmhaxshfxsq;hmnjfjphxahgjzpmumjs
zjsjhoxppngbhuix ohxghoejhayxxskhOzxhos glp,hpxtjhiubphugqhposummjq- m
s bp,heuqhijjghfussnjqhqxzghngoxhoejheuyykhOejhfussnubjhugqhozxhensjq
fuiphzjsjhzunongbhuohoejhpojmpkhUggu,haxsbjoongbhejshngzusqhubnouonxg
nghoejhzxslhxahmuflngb,hzuphpougqngbhuohuhouiyjhnghejshix qxns,hmuflngb
ejshosurjyngbhiub,hzejghUgg peluhfuyyjqhejshuoojgonxghoxhoejhsuooyjhxa
pxtjhfussnubjhqsnrngbh mkhUgguhyxxljqhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhugqhpuzhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’phfx snjshxghoejhpojmp,hsngbngbhuohoejhasxgohqxxshijyyk

“S ghugqhangqhx ohzeuohnohnp,”hpejhpunq,hugqhznoehuhfuythpjgpjhxahijngb
msjmusjqhaxshugcoengb,hpejhpuohqxzghnghuhyxzhfeuns,haxyqngbhejsheugqp
xghejshlgjjpkhUhaxxotughisx beohnghuhoenflhmufljohqnsjfojqhnghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’pheugqk

“Oejhfx snjsheuphxsqjsphoxhzunohaxshughugpzjs,”hejhpunqk

“Rjschzjyy,”hpejhpunq,hugqhuphpxxghuphejheuqhyjaohoejhsxxthpejhoxsj
xmjghoejhyjoojshznoehosjtiyngbhangbjspkhUhsxyyhxah gaxyqjqhgxojphqxgj
 mhnghuhzsummjshajyyhx ohxahnokhPejhqnpjgbubjqhoejhyjoojshugqhijbug
sjuqngbhnohuohoejhjgqkh“Msjmusuonxgphpeuyyhijhtuqjhaxshcx shussnruy
ejsjhkkkhNhuooufehmusonf yushpnbgnanfugfjhoxhfxtmynugfjkkkk”hpejhsjuqk
Pejhsughxg,hoejghiufl,hsjuqhnohuyyhoesx be,hugqhxgfjhtxsjhsjuqhoej
yjoojshuyyhoesx behubunghasxthoejhijbnggngbkhZejghpejheuqhangnpejq,hpej
ajyohoeuohpejhzuphfxyqhuyyhxrjs,hugqhoeuohuhajusa yhfuyutnoc,hp fehup
pejheuqhgxohjvmjfojq,heuqhi spoh mxghejsk

Nghoejhtxsgngbhpejheuqhsjbsjoojqhoeuohpejheuqhpmxljghoxhejshe piugq,
ugqhznpejqhaxshgxoengbhpxht fehuphoeuohoexpjhzxsqphfx yqhijh gpmxljgk
Ugqhejsjhoenphyjoojshsjbusqjqhoejthuph gpmxljg,hugqhburjhejshzeuohpej
euqhzugojqkhI ohgxzhoenphyjoojshpjjtjqhoxhejshtxsjhuza yhoeughugcoengb
pejheuqhijjghuiyjhoxhfxgfjnrjk

“Ej’phsnbeo!”hpejhpunq;h“xahfx spj,hej’phuyzucphsnbeo;hej’phu
Fesnponug,hej’phbjgjsx p!hCjp,hrnyj,hiupjhfsjuo sj!hUgqhgxhxgj
 gqjspougqphnohjvfjmohtj,hugqhgxhxgjhjrjshznyy;hugqhNhfug’ohjvmyunghnok
Oejchpuchej’phpxhsjynbnx p,hpxhenbe-msngfnmyjq,hpxh msnbeo,hpxhfyjrjs;
i ohoejchqxg’ohpjjhzeuohN’rjhpjjgkhOejchqxg’ohlgxzhexzhejheuphfs pejq
tchynajhaxshjnbeohcjusp,hfs pejqhjrjscoengbhoeuohzuphynrngbhnghtj—ej
euphgxohxgfjhjrjghoex beohoeuohN’thuhynrjhzxtughzexht poheurjhyxrjk
Oejchqxg’ohlgxzhexzhuohjrjschpojmhej’phe tnynuojqhtj,hugqhijjgh. pohup
myjupjqhznoehentpjyakhEurjg’ohNhposnrjg,hposnrjghznoehuyyhtchposjgboe,
oxhangqhpxtjoengbhoxhbnrjhtjugngbhoxhtchynaj?hEurjg’ohNhpos bbyjqhox
yxrjhent,hoxhyxrjhtchpxghzejghNhfx yqhgxohyxrjhtche piugq?hI ohoejhontj
futjhzejghNhlgjzhoeuohNhfx yqg’ohfejuohtcpjyahugchyxgbjs,hoeuohNhzup
uynrj,hoeuohNhzuphgxohoxhiyutj,hoeuohBxqheuphtuqjhtjhpxhoeuohNht po
yxrjhugqhynrjkhUgqhgxzhzeuohqxjphejhqx?hNahej’qhlnyyjqhtj,hnahej’q
lnyyjqhent,hNhfx yqheurjhixsgjhugcoengb,hNhfx yqheurjhaxsbnrjg
ugcoengb;hi o,hgx,hejkkkkhExzhzuphnohNhqnqg’ohb jpphzeuohejhzx yqhqx?
Ej’phqxngbh. pohzeuo’phfeusufojsnponfhxahenphtjughfeusufojskhEj’yyhljjm
entpjyahnghoejhsnbeo,hzenyjhtj,hnghtchs ng,hej’yyhqsnrjhponyyhyxzjshox
zxspjhs nghcjokkkk”

Pejhsjfuyyjqhoejhzxsqphasxthoejhyjoojskh“Cx hfughfxg.jfo sjhzeuohuzunop
cx hugqhcx shpxgkkkk”h“Oeuo’phuhoesjuohoxhouljhuzuchtchfenyq,hugqhtxpo
ynljychichoejnshpo mnqhyuzhejhfugkhI ohNhlgxzhrjschzjyyhzechejhpucphnok
Ejhqxjpg’ohijynjrjhjrjghnghtchyxrjhaxshtchfenyq,hxshejhqjpmnpjphno
(. pohuphejhuyzucph pjqhoxhsnqnf yjhno)khEjhqjpmnpjphoeuohajjyngbhng
tj,hi ohejhlgxzphoeuohNhzxg’ohuiugqxghtchfenyq,hoeuohNhfug’ohuiugqxghtc
fenyq,hoeuohoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhynajhaxshtjhznoex ohtchfenyq,hjrjghznoe
enthzexthNhyxrj;hi ohoeuohnahNhuiugqxgjqhtchfenyqhugqhsughuzuchasxt
ent,hNhpex yqhijhufongbhynljhoejhtxpohngautx p,hiupjpohxahzxtjgkhEj
lgxzphoeuo,hugqhlgxzphoeuohNhuthngfumuiyjhxahqxngbhoeuok”

Pejhsjfuyyjqhugxoejshpjgojgfjhnghoejhyjoojskh“X shynajht pohbxhxghuphno
euphqxgjhnghoejhmupokkkk”h“Oeuohynajhzuphtnpjsuiyjhjgx behnghoejhxyq
qucp;hnoheuphijjghuza yhxahyuojkhZeuohznyyhnohijhgxz?hUgqhejhlgxzphuyy
oeuo;hejhlgxzphoeuohNhfug’ohsjmjgohoeuohNhisjuoej,hoeuohNhyxrj;hej
lgxzphoeuohnohfughyjuqhoxhgxoengbhi ohycngbhugqhqjfjno;hi ohejhzugophox
bxhxghoxso sngbhtjkhNhlgxzhent;hNhlgxzhoeuohej’phuohextjhugqhnpheummc
nghqjfjno,hynljhuhanpehpznttngbhnghoejhzuojskhGx,hNhzxg’ohbnrjhenthoeuo
eummngjppkhN’yyhisjulhoesx behoejhpmnqjszjihxahynjphnghzenfehejhzugop
oxhfuofehtj,hfxtjhzeuohtuckhUgcoengb’phijoojshoeughycngbhugqhqjfjnok

“I ohexz?hTchBxq!htchBxq!hZuphjrjshuhzxtughpxhtnpjsuiyjhuphNhut?kkk”

“Gx;hNhznyyhisjulhoesx behno,hNhznyyhisjulhoesx behno!”hpejhfsnjq,
. tmngbh mhugqhljjmngbhiuflhejshojuspkhUgqhpejhzjgohoxhoej
zsnongb-ouiyjhoxhzsnojhenthugxoejshyjoojskhI ohuohoejhixooxthxahejs
ejusohpejhajyohoeuohpejhzuphgxohposxgbhjgx behoxhisjulhoesx be
ugcoengb,hoeuohpejhzuphgxohposxgbhjgx behoxhbjohx ohxahejshxyq
mxpnonxg,hexzjrjshauypjhugqhqnpexgxsuiyjhnohtnbeohijk

Pejhpuohqxzghuohoejhzsnongb-ouiyj,hi ohngpojuqhxahzsnongbhpejhfyupmjq
ejsheugqphxghoejhouiyj,hugq,hyucngbhejshejuqhxghoejt,hi spohngoxhojusp,
znoehpxiphugqhejurngbhisjupohynljhuhfenyqhfscngbkhPejhzuphzjjmngbhoeuo
ejshqsjuthxahejshmxpnonxghijngbhtuqjhfyjushugqhqjangnojheuqhijjg
uggnenyuojqhaxsjrjskhPejhlgjzhijaxsjeugqhoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqhbxhxghng
oejhxyqhzuc,hugqhaushzxspj,hngqjjq,hoeughnghoejhxyqhzuckhPejhajyohoeuo
oejhmxpnonxghnghoejhzxsyqhoeuohpejhjg.xcjq,hugqhoeuoheuqhpjjtjqhoxhejs
xahpxhynooyjhfxgpjw jgfjhnghoejhtxsgngb,hoeuohoenphmxpnonxghzup
msjfnx phoxhejs,hoeuohpejhzx yqhgxoheurjhoejhposjgboehoxhjvfeugbjhno
axshoejhpeutja yhmxpnonxghxahuhzxtughzexheuphuiugqxgjqhe piugqhugq
fenyqhoxh.xnghejshyxrjs;hoeuohexzjrjsht fehpejhtnbeohpos bbyj,hpej
fx yqhgxohijhposxgbjshoeughejspjyakhPejhzx yqhgjrjshlgxzhasjjqxthng
yxrj,hi ohzx yqhsjtunghaxsjrjshuhb nyochznaj,hznoehoejhtjgufjhxa
qjojfonxgheugbngbhxrjshejshuohjrjschngpougo;hqjfjnrngbhejshe piugqhaxs
oejhpuljhxahuhpeutja yhfxggjfonxghznoehuhtughynrngbhumusohugqhuzuchasxt
ejs,hzexpjhynajhpejhfx yqhgjrjshpeusjkhPejhlgjzhoeuohoenphzuphexzhno
zx yqhij,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhnohzuphpxhuza yhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohjrjg
fxgfjnrjhzeuohnohzx yqhjgqhngkhUgqhpejhfsnjqhznoex ohsjposungo,hup
fenyqsjghfschzejghoejchusjhm gnpejqk

Oejhpx gqhxahoejhaxxotug’phpojmphaxsfjqhejshoxhsx pjhejspjya,hugq,
enqngbhejshaufjhasxthent,hpejhmsjojgqjqhoxhijhzsnongbk

“Oejhfx snjshuplphnahoejsj’phughugpzjs,”hoejhaxxotughuggx gfjqk

“Ughugpzjs?hCjp,”hpunqhUggukh“YjohenthzunokhN’yyhsngbk”

“ZeuohfughNhzsnoj?”hpejhoex beokh“ZeuohfughNhqjfnqjh mxghuyxgj?hZeuohqx
Nhlgxz?hZeuohqxhNhzugo?hZeuohnphoejsjhNhfusjhaxs?”hUbunghpejhajyohoeuo
ejshpx yhzuphijbnggngbhoxhijhpmynohnghozxkhPejhzuphojssnanjqhubunghuo
oenphajjyngb,hugqhfy ofejqhuohoejhanspohmsjojvohaxshqxngbhpxtjoengb
zenfehtnbeohqnrjsohejshoex beophasxthejspjyakh“Nhx beohoxhpjjhUyjvjc”
(pxhpejhfuyyjqhRsxgplchnghejshoex beop);h“gxhxgjhi ohejhfughojyyhtj
zeuohNhx beohoxhqxkhN’yyhbxhoxhIjopc’p,hmjseumphNhpeuyyhpjjhenthoejsj,”
pejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hfxtmyjojychaxsbjoongbhoeuohzejghpejheuqhoxyqhent
oejhquchijaxsjhoeuohpejhzuphgxohbxngbhoxhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’p,hejheuq
punqhoeuohnghoeuohfupjhejhpex yqhgxohbxhjnoejskhPejhzjgoh mhoxhoej
ouiyj,hzsxojhoxhejshe piugq,h“Nheurjhsjfjnrjqhcx shyjoojsk—Uk”;hugq,
sngbngbhoejhijyy,hburjhnohoxhoejhaxxotugk

“Zjhusjhgxohbxngb,”hpejhpunqhoxhUgg pelu,huphpejhfutjhngk

“Gxohbxngbhuohuyy?”

“Gx;hqxg’oh gmuflhonyyhoxtxssxz,hugqhyjohoejhfussnubjhzunokhN’thbxngb
oxhoejhmsngfjpp’pk”

“ZenfehqsjpphuthNhoxhbjohsjuqc?”


Feumojsh17

Oejhfsxw johmusochoxhzenfehoejhMsngfjpphOrjsplucuheuqhngrnojqhUgguhzup
oxhfxgpnpohxahozxhyuqnjphugqhoejnshuqxsjspkhOejpjhozxhyuqnjphzjsjhoej
fenjahsjmsjpjgouonrjphxahuhpjyjfohgjzhMjojspi sbhfnsfyj,hgnflgutjq,hng
ntnouonxghxahpxtjhntnouonxg,h_yjphpjmohtjsrjnyyjphq htxgqj_khOejpj
yuqnjphijyxgbjqhoxhuhfnsfyjhzenfe,hoex behxahoejhenbejpohpxfnjoc,hzup
 oojsychexponyjhoxhoeuohnghzenfehUgguhtxrjqkhTxsjxrjs,hPosjtxr,hxgjhxa
oejhtxpohngay jgonuyhmjxmyjhnghMjojspi sb,hugqhoejhjyqjsychuqtnsjshxa
YnduhTjsluyxru,hzuphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phjgjtchnghoejhmxynonfuy
zxsyqkhAsxthuyyhoejpjhfxgpnqjsuonxgphUgguheuqhgxohtjugohoxhbx,hugqhoej
engophnghMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’phgxojhsjajssjqhoxhejshsja puykhI ohgxz
Ugguhzuphjubjshoxhbx,hnghoejhexmjhxahpjjngbhRsxgplck

UgguhussnrjqhuohMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’phjusynjshoeughoejhxoejshb jpopk

Uohoejhputjhtxtjgohuphpejhjgojsjq,hRsxgplc’phaxxotug,hznoe
pnqj-zenpljsphfxtijqhx ohynljhuh_Luttjs. gljs_,hzjgohnghoxxkhEjhpoxmmjq
uohoejhqxxs,hugq,houlngbhxaahenphfum,hyjohejshmuppkhUgguhsjfxbgndjq
ent,hugqhxgychoejghsjfuyyjqhoeuohRsxgplcheuqhoxyqhejshoejhquchijaxsj
oeuohejhzx yqhgxohfxtjkhTxpohynljychejhzuphpjgqngbhuhgxojhoxhpuchpxk

Uphpejhoxxlhxaahejshx ojshbustjgohnghoejheuyy,hpejhejusqhoejhaxxotug,
msxgx gfngbhenph“_s’p_”hjrjghynljhuh_Luttjs. gljs_,hpuc,h“Asxthoej
fx gohaxshoejhmsngfjpp,”hugqheugqhoejhgxojk

Pejhyxgbjqhoxhw jponxghenthuphoxhzejsjhenphtupojshzupkhPejhyxgbjqhox
o sghiuflhugqhpjgqhenthuhyjoojshoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhejs,hxshoxhbxhejspjya
oxhpjjhentkhI ohgjnoejshoejhanspohgxshoejhpjfxgqhgxshoejhoensqhfx spj
zuphmxppniyjkhUysjuqchpejhejusqhijyyphsngbngbhoxhuggx gfjhejshussnruy
uejuqhxahejs,hugqhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’phaxxotughzuphpougqngbhuohoejhxmjg
qxxshzunongbhaxshejshoxhbxhaxszusqhngoxhoejhnggjshsxxtpk

“Oejhmsngfjpphnphnghoejhbusqjg;hoejchznyyhngaxsthejshnttjqnuojyckhZx yq
cx hijhmyjupjqhoxhzuylhngoxhoejhbusqjg?”huggx gfjqhugxoejshaxxotughng
ugxoejshsxxtk

Oejhmxpnonxghxah gfjsoungoc,hxahngqjfnpnxg,hzuphponyyhoejhputjhuphuo
extj—zxspj,hnghaufo,hpngfjhnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhouljhugchpojm,
ntmxppniyjhoxhpjjhRsxgplc,hugqhpejheuqhoxhsjtunghejsjhutxgbhx opnqjsp,
nghfxtmugchpxh gfxgbjgnuyhoxhejshmsjpjgohtxxqkhI ohpejhzuphzjusngbhu
qsjpphoeuohpejhlgjzhp nojqhejskhPejhzuphgxohuyxgj;huyyhusx gqhzuphoeuo
y v snx phpjoongbhxahnqyjgjpphoeuohpejhzuph pjqhox,hugqhpejhajyohyjpp
zsjofejqhoeughuohextjkhPejhzuphgxohaxsfjqhoxhoenglhzeuohpejhzuphoxhqxk
Jrjscoengbhzx yqhijhqxgjhxahnopjyakhXghtjjongbhIjopchfxtngbhoxzusqphejs
nghuhzenojhbxzghoeuohpos flhejshichnophjyjbugfj,hUgguhptnyjqhuohejs
. pohuphpejhuyzucphqnqkhMsngfjpphOrjsplucuhzuphzuylngbhznoehO peljrnofe
ugqhuhcx gbhyuqc,huhsjyuonxg,hzex,hoxhoejhbsjuoh.xchxahejshmusjgophng
oejhmsxrngfjp,hzuphpmjgqngbhoejhp ttjshznoehoejhaupenxguiyjhmsngfjppk

Oejsjhzuphmsxiuiychpxtjoengbh g p uyhuix ohUggu,haxshIjopchgxonfjqhno
uohxgfjk

“Nhpyjmohiuqyc,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,hyxxlngbhngojgoychuohoejhaxxotughzex
futjhoxhtjjohoejt,hugq,huphpejhp mmxpjq,hisx beohRsxgplc’phgxojk

“ExzhbyuqhNhuthcx ’rjhfxtj!”hpunqhIjopckh“N’thonsjq,hugqhzuph. po
yxgbngbhoxheurjhpxtjhojuhijaxsjhoejchfxtjkhCx htnbeohbx”—pejho sgjqhox
O peljrnofe—“znoehTupeu,hugqhoschoejhfsxw johbsx gqhxrjshoejsjhzejsj
oejc’rjhijjghf oongbhnokhZjhpeuyyheurjhontjhoxhouylhuhynooyjhxrjshoju;
zj’yyheurjhuhfxdchfeuo,hje?”hpejhpunqhnghJgbynpehoxhUggu,hznoehuhptnyj,
msjppngbhoejheugqhznoehzenfehpejhejyqhuhmusupxyk

“Cjp,hjpmjfnuyychuphNhfug’ohpouchrjschyxgbhznoehcx khN’thaxsfjqhoxhbx
xghoxhxyqhTuqutjhRsjqjkhN’rjhijjghmsxtnpngbhoxhbxhaxshuhfjgo sc,”hpunq
Uggu,hoxhzexthycngb,huynjghuphnohzuphoxhejshguo sj,heuqhijfxtjhgxo
tjsjychpntmyjhugqhguo suyhnghpxfnjoc,hi ohuhmxpnonrjhpx sfjhxa
puonpaufonxgkhZechpejhpunqhoenp,hzenfehpejheuqhgxohoex beohxahuhpjfxgq
ijaxsj,hpejhfx yqhgxoheurjhjvmyungjqkhPejheuqhpunqhnohpntmychasxthoej
sjayjfonxghoeuohuphRsxgplchzx yqhgxohijhejsj,hpejheuqhijoojshpjf sjhejs
xzghasjjqxt,hugqhoschoxhpjjhenthpxtjexzkhI ohzechpejheuqhpmxljghxahxyq
TuqutjhRsjqj,hzexthpejheuqhoxhbxhugqhpjj,huphpejheuqhoxhpjjhtugchxoejs
mjxmyj,hpejhfx yqhgxoheurjhjvmyungjq;hugqhcjo,huphnohuaojszusqpho sgjq
x o,heuqhpejhfxgosnrjqhoejhtxpohf ggngbhqjrnfjphoxhtjjohRsxgplc,hpej
fx yqheurjhoex beohxahgxoengbhijoojsk

“GxkhN’thgxohbxngbhoxhyjohcx hbxhaxshugcoengb,”hugpzjsjqhIjopc,hyxxlngb
ngojgoychngoxhUggu’phaufjkh“Sjuyyc,hnahNhzjsjhgxohaxgqhxahcx ,hNhpex yq
ajjyhxaajgqjqkhXgjhzx yqhoenglhcx hzjsjhuasunqhtchpxfnjochzx yq
fxtmsxtnpjhcx khOjuhnghoejhynooyjhqngngb-sxxt,hmyjupj,”hpejhpunq,heuya
fyxpngbhejshjcjp,huphpejhuyzucphqnqhzejghuqqsjppngbhoejhaxxotugk

Oulngbhoejhgxojhasxthent,hpejhsjuqhnok

“Uyjvjc’phmyucngbh phauypj,”hpejhpunqhnghAsjgfe;h“ejhzsnojphoeuohej
fug’ohfxtj,”hpejhuqqjqhnghuhoxgjhuphpntmyjhugqhguo suyhuphoex behno
fx yqhgjrjshjgojshejshejuqhoeuohRsxgplchfx yqhtjughugcoengbhtxsjhox
Ugguhoeughuhbutjhxahfsxw jokhUgguhlgjzhoeuohIjopchlgjzhjrjscoengb,hi o,
ejusngbhexzhpejhpmxljhxahRsxgplchijaxsjhejs,hpejhuytxpohajyohmjsp uqjq
axshuhtng ojhoeuohpejhlgjzhgxoengbk

“Ue!”hpunqhUgguhngqnaajsjgoyc,huphoex behgxohbsjuoychngojsjpojqhnghoej
tuoojs,hugqhpejhzjgohxghptnyngb:h“Exzhfughcx hxshcx shasnjgqp
fxtmsxtnpjhugcxgj?”

Oenphmyucngbhznoehzxsqp,hoenphenqngbhxahuhpjfsjo,heuqhuhbsjuo
aupfnguonxghaxshUggu,hup,hngqjjq,hnoheuphaxshuyyhzxtjgkhUgqhnohzuphgxo
oejhgjfjppnochxahfxgfjuytjgo,hgxohoejhunthznoehzenfehoejhfxgfjuytjgo
zuphfxgosnrjq,hi ohoejhmsxfjpphxahfxgfjuytjgohnopjyahzenfehuoosufojq
ejsk

“Nhfug’ohijhtxsjhFuoexynfhoeughoejhMxmj,”hpejhpunqkh“PosjtxrhugqhYndu
Tjsluyxru,hzec,hoejc’sjhoejhfsjuthxahoejhfsjuthxahpxfnjockhIjpnqjp,
oejc’sjhsjfjnrjqhjrjsczejsj,hugqh_N_”—pejhyunqhpmjfnuyhposjpphxghoej
N—“eurjhgjrjshijjghposnfohugqhngoxyjsugokhNo’phpntmychoeuohNheurjg’o
oejhontjk”

“Gx;hcx hqxg’ohfusj,hmjseump,hoxhtjjohPosjtxr?hYjohenthugqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehonyohuohjufehxoejshnghoejhfxttnoojj—oeuo’phgxhuaaunshxa
x spkhI ohnghoejhzxsyq,hej’phoejhtxpohutnuiyjhtughNhlgxz,hugqhuhqjrxojq
fsxw johmyucjskhCx hpeuyyhpjjkhUgq,hnghpmnojhxahenphuip sqhmxpnonxghup
Yndu’phyxrjpnflhpzunghuohenphubj,hcx hx beohoxhpjjhexzhejhfussnjphxaa
oejhuip sqhmxpnonxgkhEj’phrjschgnfjkhPummexhPeoxyodhcx hqxg’ohlgxz?hXe,
oeuo’phuhgjzhocmj,hw nojhgjzk”

Ijopchpunqhuyyhoenp,hugq,huohoejhputjhontj,hasxthejshbxxq-e txsjq,
pesjzqhbyugfj,hUgguhajyohoeuohpejhmusoychb jppjqhejshmynbeo,hugqhzup
euofengbhpxtjoengbhaxshejshijgjanokhOejchzjsjhnghoejhynooyjhix qxnsk

“Nht pohzsnojhoxhUyjvjchoex be,”hugqhIjopchpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyj,
pfsniiyjqhuhajzhyngjp,hugqhm ohoejhgxojhnghughjgrjyxmjk

“N’thojyyngbhenthoxhfxtjhoxhqnggjskhN’rjhxgjhyuqchjvosuhoxhqnggjshznoe
tj,hugqhgxhtughoxhouljhejshngkhYxxlhzeuohN’rjhpunq,hznyyhoeuohmjsp uqj
ent?hJvf pjhtj,hNht pohyjurjhcx haxshuhtng ojkhZx yqhcx hpjuyhnoh m,
myjupj,hugqhpjgqhnohxaa?”hpejhpunqhasxthoejhqxxs;h“Nheurjhoxhbnrjhpxtj
qnsjfonxgpk”

Znoex ohuhtxtjgo’phoex beo,hUgguhpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyjhznoehIjopc’p
yjoojs,hugq,hznoex ohsjuqngbhno,hzsxojhijyxz:h“No’phjppjgonuyhaxshtjhox
pjjhcx khFxtjhoxhoejhRsjqjhbusqjgkhNhpeuyyhijhoejsjhuohpnvhx’fyxflk”
Pejhpjuyjqhnoh m,hugq,hIjopchfxtngbhiufl,hnghejshmsjpjgfjheugqjqhoej
gxojhoxhijhouljgk

Uohoju,hzenfehzuphisx beohoejthxghuhynooyjhoju-ouiyjhnghoejhfxxyhynooyj
qsuzngb-sxxt,hoejhfxdchfeuohmsxtnpjqhichMsngfjpphOrjsplucuhijaxsjhoej
ussnruyhxahejshrnpnoxsphsjuyychqnqhfxtjhxaahijozjjghoejhozxhzxtjgkhOejc
fsnonfndjqhoejhmjxmyjhoejchzjsjhjvmjfongb,hugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghajyy
 mxghYnduhTjsluyxruk

“Pej’phrjschpzjjo,hugqhNhuyzucphynljqhejs,”hpunqhUgguk

“Cx hx beohoxhynljhejskhPejhsurjphuix ohcx khCjpojsquchpejhfutjh mhox
tjhuaojshoejhsufjphugqhzuphnghqjpmunshuohgxohangqngbhcx khPejhpucp
cx ’sjhuhsjuyhejsxngjhxahsxtugfj,hugqhoeuohnahpejhzjsjhuhtughpejhzx yq
qxhuyyhpxsophxahtuqhoengbphaxshcx shpuljkhPosjtxrhpucphpejhqxjphoeuohup
nohnpk”

“I ohqxhojyyhtj,hmyjupj,hNhgjrjshfx yqhtuljhnohx o,”hpunqhUggu,huaojs
ijngbhpnyjgohaxshpxtjhontj,hpmjulngbhnghuhoxgjhoeuohpexzjqhpejhzuphgxo
uplngbhughnqyjhw jponxg,hi ohoeuohzeuohpejhzuphuplngbhzuphxahtxsj
ntmxsougfjhoxhejshoeughnohpex yqheurjhijjg;h“qxhojyyhtj,hmyjupj,hzeuo
usjhejshsjyuonxgphznoehMsngfjhLuy deplc,hTnpelu,huphej’phfuyyjq?hN’rj
tjohoejthpxhynooyjkhZeuohqxjphnohtjug?”

Ijopchptnyjqhznoehejshjcjp,hugqhyxxljqhngojgoychuohUgguk

“No’phuhgjzhtuggjs,”hpejhpunqkh“Oejc’rjhuyyhuqxmojqhoeuohtuggjsk
Oejc’rjhay gbhoejnshfumphxrjshoejhzngqtnyypkhI ohoejsjhusjhzucphugq
zucphxahayngbngbhoejtk”

“Cjp,hi ohzeuohusjhejshsjyuonxgphmsjfnpjychznoehLuy deplc?”

Ijopchisxljhngoxh gjvmjfojqychtnsoea yhugqhnssjmsjppniyjhyu beojs,hu
oengbhzenfehsusjycheummjgjqhznoehejsk

“Cx ’sjhjgfsxufengbhxghMsngfjpphTculucu’phpmjfnuyhqxtunghgxzkhOeuo’p
oejhw jponxghxahugh_jgaugohojssniyj_,”hugqhIjopchxirnx pychosnjqhox
sjposunghejspjya,hi ohfx yqhgxo,hugqhzjgohxaahngoxhmjuyphxahoeuo
ngajfonx phyu beojshoeuohmjxmyjhyu behzexhqxhgxohyu behxaojgkh“Cx ’q
ijoojshuplhoejt,”hpejhisx beohx o,hijozjjghojusphxahyu beojsk

“Gx;hcx hyu be,”hpunqhUggu,hyu bengbhoxxhnghpmnojhxahejspjya,h“i ohN
gjrjshfx yqh gqjspougqhnokhNhfug’oh gqjspougqhoejhe piugq’phsôyjhng
nok”

“Oejhe piugq?hYnduhTjsluyxru’phe piugqhfussnjphejshpeuzy,hugqhnphuyzucp
sjuqchoxhijhxah pjkhI ohugcoengbhtxsjhoeughoeuohnghsjuynoc,hgxhxgj
fusjphoxhngw nsjkhCx hlgxzhnghqjfjgohpxfnjochxgjhqxjpg’ohouylhxshoengl
jrjghxahfjsounghqjounyphxahoejhoxnyjokhOeuo’phexzhnohnphznoehoenpk”

“Znyyhcx hijhuohTuqutjhSxyugqul’phaêoj?”hupljqhUggu,hoxhfeugbjhoej
fxgrjspuonxgk

“Nhqxg’ohoenglhpx,”hugpzjsjqhIjopc,hugq,hznoex ohyxxlngbhuohejshasnjgq,
pejhijbughanyyngbhoejhynooyjhosugpmusjgohf mphznoehasubsugohojuk
M oongbhuhf mhijaxsjhUggu,hpejhoxxlhx ohuhfnbusjooj,hugq,hanoongbhno
ngoxhuhpnyrjshexyqjs,hpejhynbeojqhnok

“No’phynljhoenp,hcx hpjj:hN’thnghuhaxso guojhmxpnonxg,”hpejhijbug,
w nojhpjsnx phgxz,huphpejhoxxlh mhejshf mkh“Nh gqjspougqhcx ,hugqhN
 gqjspougqhYndukhYnduhgxzhnphxgjhxahoexpjhguïrjhguo sjphoeuo,hynlj
fenyqsjg,hqxg’ohlgxzhzeuo’phbxxqhugqhzeuo’phiuqkhUgczuc,hpejhqnqg’o
fxtmsjejgqhnohzejghpejhzuphrjschcx gbkhUgqhgxzhpej’phuzusjhoeuohoej
yuflhxahfxtmsjejgpnxghp nophejskhGxz,hmjseump,hpejhqxjpg’ohlgxzhxg
m smxpj,”hpunqhIjopc,hznoehuhp ioyjhptnyjkh“I o,hugczuc,hnohp nophejsk
Oejhrjschputjhoengb,hqxg’ohcx hpjj,htuchijhyxxljqhuohosubnfuyyc,hugq
o sgjqhngoxhuhtnpjsc,hxshnohtuchijhyxxljqhuohpntmychugqhjrjg
e txsx pyckhMxppniychcx husjhngfyngjqhoxhyxxlhuohoengbphoxx
osubnfuyyck”

“ExzhNhpex yqhynljhoxhlgxzhxoejshmjxmyjh. pohuphNhlgxzhtcpjya!”hpunq
Uggu,hpjsnx pychugqhqsjutnyckh“UthNhzxspjhoeughxoejshmjxmyj,hxshijoojs?
NhoenglhN’thzxspjk”

“_Jgaugohojssniyj,hjgaugohojssniyj!_”hsjmjuojqhIjopckh“I ohejsjhoejc
usjk”


Feumojsh18

Oejchejusqhoejhpx gqhxahpojmphugqhuhtug’phrxnfj,hoejghuhzxtug’phrxnfj
ugqhyu beojs,hugqhnttjqnuojychoejsjuaojshoejsjhzuyljqhnghoejhjvmjfojq
b jpop:hPummexhPeoxyod,hugqhuhcx gbhtughijutngbhznoehjvfjpphxahejuyoe,
oejhpx-fuyyjqhRuplukhNohzuphjrnqjgohoeuohutmyjhp mmynjphxahijjapojul,
os aayjp,hugqhI sb gqchgjrjshaunyjqhoxhsjufehenthuohoejhanoongbhex sk
Rupluhixzjqhoxhoejhozxhyuqnjp,hugqhbyugfjqhuohoejt,hi ohxgychaxshxgj
pjfxgqkhEjhzuyljqhuaojshPummexhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hugqhaxyyxzjqhejs
uix ohuphoex behejhzjsjhfeungjqhoxhejs,hljjmngbhenphpmuslyngbhjcjp
anvjqhxghejshuphoex behejhzugojqhoxhjuohejskhPummexhPeoxyodhzuphu
iyxgqjhiju ochznoehiyuflhjcjpkhPejhzuyljqhznoehptusohynooyjhpojmphng
enbe-ejjyjqhpexjp,hugqhpexxlheugqphznoehoejhyuqnjphrnbxsx pychynljhu
tugk

Ugguheuqhgjrjshtjohoenphgjzhpoushxahaupenxg,hugqhzuphpos flhichejs
iju oc,hoejhjvubbjsuojqhjvosjtjhoxhzenfehejshqsjpphzuphfussnjq,hugqhoej
ixyqgjpphxahejshtuggjspkhXghejshejuqhoejsjhzuphp fehuhp mjspos fo sjhxa
pxao,hbxyqjgheuns—ejshxzghugqhauypjhtnvjq—oeuohejshejuqhzuphjw uyhng
pndjhoxhoejhjyjbugoychsx gqjqhi po,hxahzenfehpxht fehzuphjvmxpjqhng
asxgokhOejhntm ypnrjhuis mogjpphxahejshtxrjtjgophzuphp fehoeuohuohjrjsc
pojmhoejhyngjphxahejshlgjjphugqhoejh mmjshmusohxahejshyjbphzjsj
qnpongfoychtusljqh gqjshejshqsjpp,hugqhoejhw jponxghngrxy gousnychsxpj
oxhoejhtngqhzejsjhnghoejh gq yuongb,hmnyjq- mhtx gounghxahtuojsnuyhuo
oejhiuflhoejhsjuyhixqchxahoejhzxtug,hpxhptuyyhugqhpyjgqjs,hpxhguljqhng
asxgo,hugqhpxhenqqjghijengqhugqhijyxz,hsjuyychfutjhoxhughjgqk

Ijopchtuqjheupojhoxhngosxq fjhejshoxhUgguk

“Xgychaugfc,hzjhuyyhi ohsughxrjshozxhpxyqnjsp,”hpejhijbughojyyngbhoejt
uohxgfj,h pngbhejshjcjp,hptnyngbhugqhoznofengbhuzuchejshouny,hzenfehpej
ay gbhiuflhuohxgjhposxljhuyyhxghxgjhpnqjkh“NhqsxrjhejsjhznoehRuplukkkk
Ue,hoxhijhp sj,hcx hqxg’ohlgxzhjufehxoejsk”hUgqhtjgonxgngbhenphp sgutj
pejhngosxq fjqhoejhcx gbhtug,hugqhsjqqjgngbhuhynooyj,hisxljhngoxhu
sngbngbhyu behuohejshtnpoulj—oeuohnp,huohejsheurngbhfuyyjqhenthRupluhox
uhposugbjskhRupluhixzjqhxgfjhtxsjhoxhUggu,hi ohejhpunqhgxoengbhoxhejsk
EjhuqqsjppjqhPummex:h“Cx ’rjhyxpohcx shijokhZjhbxohejsjhanspokhMuch m,”
punqhej,hptnyngbk

Pummexhyu bejqhponyyhtxsjhajponrjyck

“Gxoh. pohgxz,”hpunqhpejk

“Xe,huyyhsnbeo,hN’yyheurjhnohyuojsk”

“Rjschzjyy,hrjschzjyykhXe,hcjpk”hPejho sgjqhp qqjgychoxhMsngfjpphIjopc:
“NhuthuhgnfjhmjspxghkkkhNhmxpnonrjychaxsbxohnohkkkhN’rjhisx beohcx hu
rnpnoxskhUgqhejsjhejhfxtjpk”hOejh gjvmjfojqhcx gbhrnpnoxs,hzexthPummex
euqhngrnojq,hugqhzexthpejheuqhaxsbxoojg,hzup,hexzjrjs,huhmjspxgubjhxa
p fehfxgpjw jgfjhoeuo,hnghpmnojhxahenphcx oe,hixoehoejhyuqnjphsxpjhxg
enphjgosugfjk

EjhzuphuhgjzhuqtnsjshxahPummex’pkhEjhgxzhqxbbjqhejshaxxopojmp,hynlj
Rupluk

PxxghuaojshMsngfjhLuy deplchussnrjq,hugqhYnduhTjsluyxruhznoehPosjtxrk
YnduhTjsluyxruhzuphuhoenghis gjooj,hznoehughXsnjgouy,hyugb nqhocmjhxa
aufj,hugq—uphjrjscxgjh pjqhoxhpuc—jvw npnojhjgnbtuonfhjcjpkhOejhoxgjhxa
ejshquslhqsjpph(Ugguhnttjqnuojychxipjsrjqhugqhummsjfnuojqhoejhaufo)hzup
nghmjsajfoheustxgchznoehejshpocyjhxahiju ockhYnduhzuphuphpxaohugq
jgjsruojqhuphPummexhzuphptusohugqhuis mok

I ohoxhUggu’phoupojhYnduhzuphaushtxsjhuoosufonrjkhIjopcheuqhpunqhox
Ugguhoeuohpejheuqhuqxmojqhoejhmxpjhxahughnggxfjgohfenyq,hi ohzejghUggu
puzhejs,hpejhajyohoeuohoenphzuphgxohoejhos oekhPejhsjuyychzuphixoe
nggxfjgohugqhfxss mo,hi ohuhpzjjohugqhmuppnrjhzxtugkhNohnphos jhoeuo
ejshoxgjhzuphoejhputjhuphPummex’p;hoeuohynljhPummex,hpejheuqhozxhtjg,
xgjhcx gbhugqhxgjhxyq,houfljqhxgoxhejs,hugqhqjrx sngbhejshznoehoejns
jcjpkhI ohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhnghejshenbejshoeughzeuohp ssx gqjqhejsk
Oejsjhzuphnghejshoejhbyxzhxahoejhsjuyhqnutxgqhutxgbhbyupphntnouonxgpk
Oenphbyxzhpexgjhx ohnghejshjvw npnoj,hos ychjgnbtuonfhjcjpkhOejhzjusc,
ugqhuohoejhputjhontjhmuppnxguoj,hbyugfjhxahoexpjhjcjp,hjgfnsfyjqhic
quslhsngbp,hntmsjppjqhxgjhichnophmjsajfohpngfjsnockhJrjscxgjhyxxlngb
ngoxhoexpjhjcjphaugfnjqhejhlgjzhejshzexyyc,hugqhlgxzngbhejs,hfx yqhgxo
i ohyxrjhejskhUohoejhpnbeohxahUggu,hejshzexyjhaufjhynbeojqh mhuohxgfj
znoehuhptnyjhxahqjynbeok

“Ue,hexzhbyuqhNhuthoxhpjjhcx !”hpejhpunq,hbxngbh mhoxhejskh“Cjpojsquc
uohoejhsufjphuyyhNhzugojqhzuphoxhbjohoxhcx ,hi ohcx ’qhbxgjhuzuckhNhqnq
pxhzugohoxhpjjhcx ,hcjpojsquchjpmjfnuyyckhZupg’ohnohuza y?”hpejhpunq,
yxxlngbhuohUgguhznoehjcjphoeuohpjjtjqhoxhyuchiusjhuyyhejshpx yk

“Cjp;hNheuqhgxhnqjuhnohzx yqhijhpxhoesnyyngb,”hpunqhUggu,hiy pengbk

Oejhfxtmugchbxoh mhuohoenphtxtjgohoxhbxhngoxhoejhbusqjgk

“N’thgxohbxngb,”hpunqhYndu,hptnyngbhugqhpjooyngbhejspjyahfyxpjhoxhUgguk
“Cx hzxg’ohbxhjnoejs,hznyyhcx ?hZexhzugophoxhmyuchfsxw jo?”

“Xe,hNhynljhno,”hpunqhUgguk

“Oejsj,hexzhqxhcx htugubjhgjrjshoxhijhixsjqhichoengbp?hNo’phqjynbeoa y
oxhyxxlhuohcx khCx ’sjhuynrj,hi ohN’thixsjqk”

“Exzhfughcx hijhixsjq?hZec,hcx hynrjhnghoejhynrjynjpohpjohng
Mjojspi sb,”hpunqhUgguk

“Mxppniychoejhmjxmyjhzexhusjhgxohxahx shpjohusjhjrjghtxsjhixsjq;hi o
zj—Nhfjsoungyc—usjhgxoheummc,hi ohuza yyc,huza yychixsjqk”

Pummexhptxlngbhuhfnbusjoojhzjgohxaahngoxhoejhbusqjghznoehoejhozxhcx gb
tjgkhIjopchugqhPosjtxrhsjtungjqhuohoejhoju-ouiyjk

“Zeuo,hixsjq!”hpunqhIjopckh“Pummexhpucphoejchqnqhjg.xchoejtpjyrjp
osjtjgqx pychuohcx shex pjhyupohgnbeok”

“Ue,hexzhqsjuschnohuyyhzup!”hpunqhYnduhTjsluyxrukh“Zjhuyyhqsxrjhiuflhox
tchmyufjhuaojshoejhsufjpkhUgqhuyzucphoejhputjhmjxmyj,huyzucphoejhputjk
UyzucphoejhputjhoengbkhZjhyx gbjqhuix ohxghpxauphuyyhoejhjrjgngbkhZeuo
nphoejsjhoxhjg.xchnghoeuo?hGx;hqxhojyyhtjhexzhcx htugubjhgjrjshoxhij
ixsjq?”hpejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhUgguhubungkh“Xgjheuphi ohoxhyxxlhuohcx 
ugqhxgjhpjjp,hejsj’phuhzxtughzexhtuchijheummchxsh geummc,hi ohnpg’o
ixsjqkhOjyyhtjhexzhcx hqxhno?”

“Nhqxhgxoengb,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,hiy pengbhuohoejpjhpjusfengbhw jponxgpk

“Oeuo’phoejhijpohzuc,”hPosjtxrhm ohngkhPosjtxrhzuphuhtughxahanaoc,
musoychbsuc,hi ohponyyhrnbxsx p-yxxlngb,hrjsch byc,hi ohznoehu
feusufojsnponfhugqhngojyynbjgohaufjkhYnduhTjsluyxruhzuphenphznaj’p
gnjfj,hugqhejhpmjgohuyyhenphyjnp sjhex sphznoehejskhXghtjjongbhUggu
Lusjgngu,huphejhzuphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phjgjtchnghoejhbxrjsgtjgo,hej
osnjq,hynljhuhpesjzqhtughugqhuhtughxahoejhzxsyq,hoxhijhmusonf yusyc
fxsqnuyhznoehejs,hoejhznajhxahenphjgjtck

“‘Gxoengb,’”hejhm ohnghznoehuhp ioyjhptnyj,h“oeuo’phoejhrjschijpohzuck
Nhoxyqhcx hyxgbhubx,”hejhpunq,ho sgngbhoxhYnduhTjsluyxru,h“oeuohnahcx 
qxg’ohzugohoxhijhixsjq,hcx ht pog’ohoenglhcx ’sjhbxngbhoxhijhixsjqk
No’ph. pohuphcx ht pog’ohijhuasunqhxahgxohijngbhuiyjhoxhauyyhupyjjm,hna
cx ’sjhuasunqhxahpyjjmyjppgjppkhOeuo’ph. pohzeuohUgguhUsluqcjrguheup
. pohpunqk”

“Nhpex yqhijhrjschbyuqhnahNheuqhpunqhno,haxshno’phgxohxgychfyjrjshi o
os j,”hpunqhUggu,hptnyngbk

“Gx,hqxhojyyhtjhzechnohnphxgjhfug’ohbxhoxhpyjjm,hugqhxgjhfug’ohejym
ijngbhixsjq?”

“Oxhpyjjmhzjyyhxgjhx beohoxhzxsl,hugqhoxhjg.xchxgjpjyahxgjhx beohox
zxslhoxxk”

“ZeuohuthNhoxhzxslhaxshzejghtchzxslhnphgxh pjhoxhugcixqc?hUgqhNhfug’o
ugqhzxg’ohlgxzngbychtuljhuhmsjojgpjhuix ohnok”

“Cx ’sjhngfxssnbniyj,”hpunqhPosjtxr,hgxohyxxlngbhuohejs,hugqhejhpmxlj
ubunghoxhUggukhUphejhsusjychtjohUggu,hejhfx yqhpuchgxoengbhi o
fxttxgmyufjphoxhejs,hi ohejhpunqhoexpjhfxttxgmyufjphuphoxhzejghpejhzup
sjo sgngbhoxhMjojspi sb,hugqhexzhaxgqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzuphxa
ejs,hznoehughjvmsjppnxghzenfehp bbjpojqhoeuohejhyxgbjqhznoehenphzexyj
px yhoxhmyjupjhejshugqhpexzhenphsjbusqhaxshejshugqhjrjghtxsjhoeughoeuok

O peljrnofehfutjhng,huggx gfngbhoeuohoejhmusochzjsjhuzunongbhoejhxoejs
myucjsphoxhijbnghfsxw jok

“Gx,hqxg’ohbxhuzuc,hmyjupjhqxg’o,”hmyjuqjqhYnduhTjsluyxru,hejusngbhoeuo
UgguhzuphbxngbkhPosjtxrh.xngjqhnghejshjgosjuonjpk

“No’phoxxhrnxyjgohuhosugpnonxg,”hejhpunq,h“oxhbxhasxthp fehfxtmugchox
xyqhTuqutjhRsjqjkhUgqhijpnqjp,hcx hznyyhxgychbnrjhejshuhfeugfjhaxs
ouylngbhpfugquy,hzenyjhejsjhcx husx pjhgxgjhi ohp fehqnaajsjgohajjyngbp
xahoejhenbejpohugqhtxpohxmmxpnojhlngq,”hejhpunqhoxhejsk

Ugguhmxgqjsjqhaxshughngpougohngh gfjsoungockhOenphpesjzqhtug’p
ayuoojsngbhzxsqp,hoejhguïrj,hfenyqynljhuaajfonxghpexzghejshichYndu
Tjsluyxru,hugqhuyyhoejhpxfnuyhuotxpmejsjhpejhzuph pjqhox,—nohzuphuyyhpx
jupc,hugqhzeuohzuphnghpoxsjhaxshejshzuphpxhqnaanf yo,hoeuohpejhzuphaxs
uhtng ojhngh gfjsoungochzejoejshoxhsjtung,hzejoejshoxhm ohxaahuhynooyj
yxgbjshoejhmunga yhtxtjgohxahjvmyuguonxgkhI ohsjtjtijsngbhzeuohzuphng
poxsjhaxshejshuyxgjhuohextj,hnahpejhqnqhgxohfxtjhoxhpxtjhqjfnpnxg,
sjtjtijsngbhoeuohbjpo sj—ojssniyjhjrjghnghtjtxsc—zejghpejheuqhfy ofejq
ejsheunshnghixoeheugqp—pejhpunqhbxxq-icjhugqhzjgohuzuck


Feumojsh19

NghpmnojhxahRsxgplc’phummusjgoychasnrxyx phynajhnghpxfnjoc,hejhzuphu
tughzexheuojqhnssjb yusnockhNghjusychcx oehnghoejhFxsmphxahMubjp,hej
euqhjvmjsnjgfjqhoejhe tnynuonxghxahuhsja puy,hzejghejheuqhosnjq,hijngb
nghqnaanf yonjp,hoxhixssxzhtxgjc,hugqhpngfjhoejghejheuqhgjrjshxgfjhm o
entpjyahnghoejhputjhmxpnonxghubungk

Nghxsqjshoxhljjmhenphuaaunsphnghpxtjhpxsohxahxsqjs,hejh pjqhuix ohanrj
ontjphuhcjush(txsjhxshyjpphasjw jgoyc,huffxsqngbhoxhfnsf tpougfjp)hox
pe ohentpjyah mhuyxgjhugqhm ohuyyhenphuaaunsphngoxhqjangnojhpeumjkhOenp
ejh pjqhoxhfuyyhenphquchxahsjflxgngbhxsh_aunsjhyuhyjppnrj_k

Xghzulngbh mhoejhquchuaojshoejhsufjp,hRsxgplchm ohxghuhzenojhyngjg
fxuo,hugqhznoex ohpeurngbhxshoulngbhenphiuoe,hejhqnposni ojqhuix ohoej
ouiyjhtxgjcp,hinyyp,hugqhyjoojsp,hugqhpjohoxhzxslkhMjosnoplc,hzexhlgjz
ejhzuphnyy-ojtmjsjqhxghp fehxffupnxgp,hxghzulngbh mhugqhpjjngbhenp
fxtsuqjhuohoejhzsnongb-ouiyj,hw njoychqsjppjqhugqhzjgohx ohznoex o
bjoongbhnghenphzuck

Jrjschtughzexhlgxzphoxhoejhtng ojpohqjounyphuyyhoejhfxtmyjvnochxahoej
fxgqnonxgphp ssx gqngbhent,hfuggxohejymhntubngngbhoeuohoejhfxtmyjvnoc
xahoejpjhfxgqnonxgp,hugqhoejhqnaanf yochxahtulngbhoejthfyjus,hnp
pxtjoengbhjvfjmonxguyhugqhmjspxguy,hmjf ynushoxhentpjya,hugqhgjrjs
p mmxpjphoeuohxoejsphusjhp ssx gqjqhich. pohuphfxtmynfuojqhughussuchxa
mjspxguyhuaaunsphuphejhnpkhPxhngqjjqhnohpjjtjqhoxhRsxgplckhUgqhgxo
znoex ohngzusqhmsnqj,hugqhgxohznoex ohsjupxg,hejhoex beohoeuohugchxoejs
tughzx yqhyxgbhubxheurjhijjghnghqnaanf yonjp,hzx yqheurjhijjghaxsfjqhox
pxtjhqnpexgxsuiyjhfx spj,hnahejheuqhax gqhentpjyahnghp fehuhqnaanf yo
mxpnonxgkhI ohRsxgplchajyohoeuohgxzhjpmjfnuyychnohzuphjppjgonuyhaxshent
oxhfyjush mhugqhqjangjhenphmxpnonxghnahejhzjsjhoxhurxnqhbjoongbhngox
qnaanf yonjpk

ZeuohRsxgplchuooufljqhanspohuphijngbhoejhjupnjpohzuphenphmjf gnusc
mxpnonxgkhZsnongbhx ohxghgxojhmumjshnghenphtng ojheugqhuyyhoeuohej
xzjq,hejhuqqjqh mhoejhutx gohugqhax gqhoeuohenphqjiophutx gojqhox
pjrjgojjghoex pugqhugqhpxtjhxqqhe gqsjqp,hzenfehejhyjaohx ohaxshoej
puljhxahfyjusgjppkhSjflxgngbh mhenphtxgjchugqhenphiuglhixxl,hejhax gq
oeuohejheuqhyjaohxgjhoex pugqhjnbeohe gqsjqhsx iyjp,hugqhgxoengbhfxtngb
nghijaxsjhoejhGjzhCjuskhSjflxgngbhxrjshubunghenphynpohxahqjiop,hRsxgplc
fxmnjqhno,hqnrnqngbhnohngoxhoesjjhfyuppjpkhNghoejhanspohfyupphejhm o
oejhqjiophzenfehejhzx yqheurjhoxhmuchuohxgfj,hxshaxshzenfehejht pohng
ugchfupjheurjhoejhtxgjchsjuqchpxhoeuohxghqjtugqhaxshmuctjgohoejsjhfx yq
gxohijhuhtxtjgo’phqjyuchnghmucngbkhP fehqjiophutx gojqhoxhuix ohax s
oex pugq:hxgjhoex pugqhanrjhe gqsjqhaxshuhexspj,hugqhozxhoex pugqhanrj
e gqsjqhuphp sjochaxshuhcx gbhfxtsuqj,hRjgxrplc,hzexheuqhyxpohoeuohp t
oxhuhfusqpeusmjshnghRsxgplc’phmsjpjgfjkhRsxgplcheuqhzugojqhoxhmuchoej
txgjchuohoejhontjh(ejheuqhoeuohutx gohoejg),hi ohRjgxrplchugqhCuperng
euqhngpnpojqhoeuohoejchzx yqhmuchugqhgxohRsxgplc,hzexheuqhgxohmyucjqk
Oeuohzuphpxhaushzjyy,hi ohRsxgplchlgjzhoeuohnghoenphqnsochi pngjpp,
oex behenphxgychpeusjhnghnohzuph gqjsoulngbhichzxsqhxahtx oehoxhij
p sjochaxshRjgxrplc,hnohzuphuipxy ojychgjfjppuschaxshenthoxheurjhoej
ozxhoex pugqhanrjhe gqsjqhsx iyjphpxhuphoxhijhuiyjhoxhayngbhnohuohoej
pzngqyjs,hugqheurjhgxhtxsjhzxsqphznoehentkhUgqhpxhaxshoenphanspohugq
txpohntmxsougohqnrnpnxghejht poheurjhax shoex pugqhsx iyjpkhOejhpjfxgq
fyupp—jnbeohoex pugqhsx iyjp—fxgpnpojqhxahyjpphntmxsougohqjiopkhOejpj
zjsjhmsngfnmuyychuffx gophxzngbhnghfxggjfonxghznoehenphsufjhexspjp,hox
oejhm srjcxshxahxuophugqheuc,hoejhJgbynpehpuqqyjs,hugqhpxhxgkhEjhzx yq
eurjhoxhmuchpxtjhozxhoex pugqhsx iyjphxghoejpjhqjiophoxx,hnghxsqjshox
ijhw nojhasjjhasxthugvnjockhOejhyupohfyupphxahqjiop—oxhpexmp,hox
exojyp,hoxhenphounyxs—zjsjhp fehuphgjjqhgxohijhfxgpnqjsjqkhPxhoeuohej
gjjqjqhuohyjupohpnvhoex pugqhsx iyjphaxshf ssjgohjvmjgpjp,hugqhejhxgyc
euqhxgjhoex pugqhjnbeohe gqsjqkhAxshuhtughznoehxgjhe gqsjqhoex pugq
sx iyjphxahsjrjg j,hzenfehzuphzeuohjrjscxgjhanvjqhuphRsxgplc’phngfxtj,
p fehqjiop,hxgjhzx yqhp mmxpj,hfx yqheusqychijhjtiussuppngb;hi ohoej
aufohzuphoeuohejhzuphaushasxtheurngbhxgjhe gqsjqhoex pugqkhEnphauoejs’p
nttjgpjhmsxmjsoc,hzenfehuyxgjhcnjyqjqhuhcjusychngfxtjhxahozxhe gqsjq
oex pugq,hzuphyjaoh gqnrnqjqhijozjjghoejhisxoejspkhUohoejhontjhzejghoej
jyqjshisxoejs,hznoehuhtupphxahqjiop,htussnjqhMsngfjpphRuscuhOfenslxru,
oejhqu beojshxahuhQjfjtisnpohznoex ohugchaxso gjhzeuojrjs,hUyjvjcheuq
bnrjgh mhoxhenphjyqjshisxoejshuytxpohoejhzexyjhngfxtjhasxthenphauoejs’p
jpouoj,hsjpjsrngbhaxshentpjyahxgychozjgoc-anrjhoex pugqhuhcjushasxthnok
Uyjvjcheuqhpunqhuohoejhontjhoxhenphisxoejshoeuohoeuohp thzx yqhij
p aanfnjgohaxshenth gonyhejhtussnjq,hzenfehejhmsxiuiychgjrjshzx yqhqxk
Ugqhenphisxoejs,hzexhzuphnghfxttugqhxahxgjhxahoejhtxpohjvmjgpnrj
sjbntjgop,hugqhzuphxgych. pohtussnjq,hfx yqhgxohqjfyngjhoejhbnaokhEnp
txoejs,hzexheuqhejshxzghpjmusuojhmsxmjsoc,heuqhuyyxzjqhUyjvjchjrjsc
cjushozjgochoex pugqhnghuqqnonxghoxhoejhozjgoc-anrjhoex pugqhejheuq
sjpjsrjq,hugqhUyjvjcheuqhpmjgohnohuyykhXahyuojhenphtxoejs,hngfjgpjq
znoehenthxghuffx gohxahenphyxrjhuaaunshugqhenphyjurngbhTxpfxz,heuq
bnrjgh mhpjgqngbhenthoejhtxgjckhUgqhnghfxgpjw jgfjhxahoenp,hRsxgplc,
zexheuqhijjghnghoejheuinohxahynrngbhxghoejhpfuyjhxahaxsoc-anrjhoex pugq
uhcjus,heurngbhxgychsjfjnrjqhozjgochoex pugqhoeuohcjus,hax gqhentpjya
gxzhnghqnaanf yonjpkhOxhbjohx ohxahoejpjhqnaanf yonjp,hejhfx yqhgxo
ummychoxhenphtxoejshaxshtxgjckhEjshyupohyjoojs,hzenfehejheuqhsjfjnrjq
oejhquchijaxsj,heuqhmusonf yusychjvupmjsuojqhenthichoejhengophnghno
oeuohpejhzuphw nojhsjuqchoxhejymhenthoxhp ffjjqhnghoejhzxsyqhugqhnghoej
ustc,hi ohgxohoxhyjuqhuhynajhzenfehzuphuhpfugquyhoxhuyyhbxxqhpxfnjock
Enphtxoejs’phuoojtmohoxhi chenthpo gbhenthoxhoejhw nflhugqhtuqjhent
ajjyhfxyqjshoeughjrjshoxhejskhI ohejhfx yqhgxohqsuzhiuflhasxthoej
bjgjsx phzxsqhzejghnohzuphxgfjh oojsjq,hjrjghoex behejhajyohgxz,
rub jychaxsjpjjngbhfjsounghjrjgo uynonjphnghenphngosnb jhznoehTuqutj
Lusjgngu,hoeuohoenphbjgjsx phzxsqheuqhijjghpmxljghoex beoyjppyc,hugq
oeuohjrjghoex behejhzjsjhgxohtussnjqhejhtnbeohgjjqhuyyhoejhe gqsjq
oex pugqhxahngfxtjkhI ohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhqsuzhiuflkhEjheuqhxgychox
sjfuyyhenphisxoejs’phznaj,hoxhsjtjtijshexzhoeuohpzjjo,hqjynbeoa yhRuscu
px beo,huohjrjschfxgrjgnjgohxmmxso gnoc,hoxhsjtngqhenthoeuohpej
sjtjtijsjqhenphbjgjsxpnochugqhummsjfnuojqhno,hoxhbsupmhoej
ntmxppninynochxahoulngbhiuflhenphbnaokhNohzuphuphntmxppniyjhuphijuongb
uhzxtug,hpojuyngb,hxshycngbkhXgjhoengbhxgychfx yqhugqhx beohoxhijhqxgj,
ugqhRsxgplchqjojstngjqh mxghnohznoex ohughngpougo’phejpnouonxg:hox
ixssxzhtxgjchasxthuhtxgjc-yjgqjs,hojghoex pugqhsx iyjp,huhmsxfjjqngb
zenfehmsjpjgojqhgxhqnaanf yoc,hoxhf ohqxzghenphjvmjgpjphbjgjsuyyc,hugq
oxhpjyyhenphsufjhexspjpkhSjpxyrngbhxghoenp,hejhmsxtmoychzsxojhuhgxojhox
Sxyugqul,hzexheuqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhpjgohoxhenthznoehxaajsphoxhi chexspjp
asxthentkhOejghejhpjgohaxshoejhJgbynpetughugqhoejhtxgjc-yjgqjs,hugq
qnrnqjqhzeuohtxgjchejheuqhuffxsqngbhoxhoejhuffx gophejhngojgqjqhoxhmuck
Eurngbhangnpejqhoenphi pngjpp,hejhzsxojhuhfxyqhugqhf oongbhugpzjshox
enphtxoejskhOejghejhoxxlhx ohxahenphgxojixxlhoesjjhgxojphxahUggu’p,
sjuqhoejthubung,hi sgjqhoejt,hugqhsjtjtijsngbhoejnshfxgrjspuonxghxghoej
msjrnx phquc,hejhpuglhngoxhtjqnouonxgk


Feumojsh20

Rsxgplc’phynajhzuphmusonf yusycheummchnghoeuohejheuqhuhfxqjhxa
msngfnmyjp,hzenfehqjangjqhznoeh gaunyngbhfjsono qjhzeuohejhx beohugq
zeuohejhx beohgxohoxhqxkhOenphfxqjhxahmsngfnmyjphfxrjsjqhxgychuhrjsc
ptuyyhfnsfyjhxahfxgongbjgfnjp,hi ohoejghoejhmsngfnmyjphzjsjhgjrjs
qx ioa y,hugqhRsxgplc,huphejhgjrjshzjgohx opnqjhoeuohfnsfyj,heuqhgjrjs
euqhuhtxtjgo’phejpnouonxghuix ohqxngbhzeuohejhx beohoxhqxkhOejpj
msngfnmyjphyunqhqxzghuphngrusnuiyjhs yjp:hoeuohxgjht pohmuchu
fusqpeusmjs,hi ohgjjqhgxohmuchuhounyxs;hoeuohxgjht pohgjrjshojyyhuhynj
oxhuhtug,hi ohxgjhtuchoxhuhzxtug;hoeuohxgjht pohgjrjshfejuohugcxgj,hi o
xgjhtuchuhe piugq;hoeuohxgjht pohgjrjshmusqxghughngp yo,hi ohxgjhtuc
bnrjhxgjhugqhpxhxgkhOejpjhmsngfnmyjphzjsjhmxppniychgxohsjupxguiyjhugq
gxohbxxq,hi ohoejchzjsjhxah gaunyngbhfjsoungoc,hugqhpxhyxgbhuphej
uqejsjqhoxhoejt,hRsxgplchajyohoeuohenphejusohzuphuohmjufjhugqhejhfx yq
exyqhenphejuqh mkhXgychw nojhyuojychnghsjbusqhoxhenphsjyuonxgphznoe
Uggu,hRsxgplcheuqhijb ghoxhajjyhoeuohenphfxqjhxahmsngfnmyjphqnqhgxo
a yychfxrjshuyyhmxppniyjhfxgongbjgfnjp,hugqhoxhaxsjpjjhnghoejha o sj
qnaanf yonjphugqhmjsmyjvnonjphaxshzenfehejhfx yqhangqhgxhb nqngbhfy jk

EnphmsjpjgohsjyuonxghoxhUgguhugqhoxhejshe piugqhzuphoxhenphtngqhfyjus
ugqhpntmyjkhNohzuphfyjusychugqhmsjfnpjychqjangjqhnghoejhfxqjhxa
msngfnmyjphichzenfehejhzuphb nqjqk

Pejhzuphughexgxsuiyjhzxtughzexheuqhijpoxzjqhejshyxrjh mxghent,hugqhej
yxrjqhejs,hugqhoejsjaxsjhpejhzuphnghenphjcjphuhzxtughzexheuqhuhsnbeohox
oejhputj,hxshjrjghtxsj,hsjpmjfohoeughuhyuza yhznajkhEjhzx yqheurjheuq
enpheugqhfexmmjqhxaahijaxsjhejhzx yqheurjhuyyxzjqhentpjyahichuhzxsq,hic
uhengo,hoxhe tnynuojhejs,hxshjrjghoxhauyyhpexsohxahoejha yyjpohsjpmjfo
uhzxtughfx yqhyxxlhaxsk

Enphuoono qjhoxhpxfnjoc,hoxx,hzuphfyjuskhJrjscxgjhtnbeohlgxz,htnbeo
p pmjfohno,hi ohgxhxgjhtnbeohqusjhoxhpmjulhxahnokhNahugchqnqhpx,hejhzup
sjuqchoxhaxsfjhuyyhzexhtnbeohpmjulhoxhijhpnyjgohugqhoxhsjpmjfohoej
gxg-jvnpojgohexgxshxahoejhzxtughejhyxrjqk

Enphuoono qjhoxhoejhe piugqhzuphoejhfyjusjpohxahuyykhAsxthoejhtxtjgo
oeuohUgguhyxrjqhRsxgplc,hejheuqhsjbusqjqhenphxzghsnbeohxrjshejshuphoej
xgjhoengbh guppunyuiyjkhEjshe piugqhzuphpntmychuhp mjsay x phugq
onsjpxtjhmjspxgkhGxhqx iohejhzuphnghuhmnonuiyjhmxpnonxg,hi ohexzhfx yq
oeuohijhejymjq?hOejhxgjhoengbhoejhe piugqheuqhuhsnbeohoxhzuphoxhqjtugq
puonpaufonxghznoehuhzjumxghnghenpheugq,hugqhRsxgplchzuphmsjmusjqhaxs
oenphuohugchtng ojk

I ohxahyuojhgjzhnggjshsjyuonxgpheuqhusnpjghijozjjghenthugqhejs,hzenfe
asnbeojgjqhRsxgplchichoejnshngqjangnojgjppkhXgychoejhquchijaxsjhpejheuq
oxyqhenthoeuohpejhzuphznoehfenyqkhUgqhejhajyohoeuohoenphaufohugqhzeuo
pejhjvmjfojqhxahenthfuyyjqhaxshpxtjoengbhgxoha yychqjangjqhnghoeuohfxqj
xahmsngfnmyjphichzenfehejheuqhenoejsoxhpojjsjqhenphfx spjhnghynajkhUgq
ejheuqhijjghngqjjqhfu beoh guzusjp,hugqhuohoejhanspohtxtjgohzejghpej
pmxljhoxhenthxahejshmxpnonxg,henphejusoheuqhmsxtmojqhenthoxhijbhejshox
yjurjhejshe piugqkhEjheuqhpunqhoeuo,hi ohgxzhoenglngbhoengbphxrjshej
puzhfyjusychoeuohnohzx yqhijhijoojshoxhtugubjhoxhurxnqhoeuo;hugqhuohoej
putjhontj,huphejhoxyqhentpjyahpx,hejhzuphuasunqhzejoejshnohzuphgxo
zsxgbk

“NahNhoxyqhejshoxhyjurjhejshe piugq,hoeuoht pohtjugh gnongbhejshynaj
znoehtngj;huthNhmsjmusjqhaxshoeuo?hExzhfughNhouljhejshuzuchgxz,hzejghN
eurjhgxhtxgjc?hP mmxpngbhNhfx yqhussugbjkkkkhI ohexzhfughNhouljhejs
uzuchzenyjhN’thnghoejhpjsrnfj?hNahNhpuchoeuo—Nhx beohoxhijhmsjmusjqhox
qxhno,hoeuohnp,hNhx beohoxheurjhoejhtxgjchugqhoxhsjonsjhasxthoejhustck”

Ugqhejhbsjzhoex beoa ykhOejhw jponxghzejoejshoxhsjonsjhasxthoejhpjsrnfj
xshgxohisx beohenthoxhoejhxoejshugqhmjseumphoejhfenjahoex behenqqjg
ngojsjpohxahenphynaj,hxahzenfehgxgjhlgjzhi ohejk

Utinonxghzuphoejhxyqhqsjuthxahenphcx oehugqhfenyqexxq,huhqsjuthzenfehej
qnqhgxohfxgajpphjrjghoxhentpjya,hoex behnohzuphpxhposxgbhoeuohgxzhoenp
muppnxghzuphjrjghqxngbhiuooyjhznoehenphyxrjkhEnphanspohpojmphnghoej
zxsyqhugqhnghoejhpjsrnfjheuqhijjghp ffjppa y,hi ohozxhcjusphijaxsjhej
euqhtuqjhuhbsjuohtnpouljkhUgvnx phoxhpexzhenphngqjmjgqjgfjhugqhox
uqrugfj,hejheuqhsja pjqhuhmxpohoeuoheuqhijjghxaajsjqhent,hexmngbhoeuo
oenphsja puyhzx yqhejnbeojghenphruy j;hi ohnoho sgjqhx ohoeuohejheuq
ijjghoxxhixyq,hugqhejhzuphmuppjqhxrjskhUgqheurngb,hzejoejshejhynljqhxs
gxo,houljgh mhaxshentpjyahoejhmxpnonxghxahughngqjmjgqjgohtug,hej
fussnjqhnohxaahznoehbsjuohoufohugqhbxxqhpjgpj,hijeurngbhuphoex behej
ixsjhgxhbs qbjhubungpohugcxgj,hqnqhgxohsjbusqhentpjyahuphng. sjqhnghugc
zuc,hugqhfusjqhaxshgxoengbhi ohoxhijhyjaohuyxgjhpngfjhejhzuphjg.xcngb
entpjyakhNghsjuynochejheuqhfjupjqhoxhjg.xchentpjyahuphyxgbhubxhuphoej
cjushijaxsj,hzejghejhzjgohuzuchoxhTxpfxzkhEjhajyohoeuohoenphngqjmjgqjgo
uoono qjhxahuhtughzexhtnbeoheurjhqxgjhugcoengb,hi ohfusjqhoxhqx
gxoengb,hzuphuysjuqchijbnggngbhoxhmuyy,hoeuohtugchmjxmyjhzjsjhijbnggngb
oxhaugfchoeuohejhzuphgxohsjuyychfumuiyjhxahugcoengbhi ohijngbhu
posunbeoaxszusq,hbxxq-guo sjqhajyyxzkhEnphfxggjfonxghznoehTuqutj
Lusjgngu,hichfsjuongbhpxht fehpjgpuonxghugqhuoosufongbhbjgjsuy
uoojgonxg,heuqhbnrjghenthuhasjpehqnpongfonxghzenfehpxxoejqhenphbguzngb
zxsthxahutinonxghaxshuhzenyj,hi ohuhzjjlhijaxsjhoeuohzxstheuqhijjg
sx pjqh mhubunghznoehasjpehaxsfjkhOejhasnjgqhxahenphfenyqexxq,huhtughxa
oejhputjhpjo,hxahoejhputjhfxojsnj,henphfxtsuqjhnghoejhFxsmphxahMubjp,
Pjsm exrplxc,hzexheuqhyjaohpfexxyhznoehenthugqheuqhijjghenphsnruyhng
fyupp,hnghbctguponfp,hnghoejnshpfsumjphugqhoejnshqsjutphxahbyxsc,heuq
fxtjhiuflhuhajzhqucphijaxsjhasxthFjgosuyhUpnu,hzejsjhejheuqhbungjqhozx
pojmph mhnghsugl,hugqhughxsqjshsusjychijpoxzjqh mxghbjgjsuyphpxhcx gbk

UphpxxghuphejhussnrjqhnghMjojspi sb,hmjxmyjhijbughoxhouylhuix ohenthup
uhgjzychsnpjghpoushxahoejhanspohtubgno qjkhUhpfexxyajyyxzhxahRsxgplc’p
ugqhxahoejhputjhubj,hejhzuphuhbjgjsuyhugqhzuphjvmjfongbhuhfxttugq,
zenfehtnbeoheurjhngay jgfjhxghoejhfx spjhxahmxynonfuyhjrjgop;hzenyj
Rsxgplc,hngqjmjgqjgohugqhisnyynugohugqhijyxrjqhichuhfeustngbhzxtug
oex behejhzup,hzuphpntmychuhfuruyschfumounghzexhzuphsjuqnychuyyxzjqhox
ijhuphngqjmjgqjgohuphjrjshejhynljqkh“Xahfx spjhNhqxg’ohjgrc
Pjsm exrplxchugqhgjrjshfx yqhjgrchent;hi ohenphuqrugfjtjgohpexzphtj
oeuohxgjheuphxgychoxhzuofehxgj’phxmmxso gnoc,hugqhoejhfusjjshxahuhtug
ynljhtjhtuchijhrjschsumnqychtuqjkhOesjjhcjusphubxhejhzuphngh. pohoej
putjhmxpnonxghuphNhutkhNahNhsjonsj,hNhi sghtchpenmpkhNahNhsjtunghnghoej
ustc,hNhyxpjhgxoengbkhPejhpunqhejspjyahpejhqnqhgxohznpehoxhfeugbjhejs
mxpnonxgkhUgqhznoehejshyxrjhNhfuggxohajjyhjgrnx phxahPjsm exrplxck”hUgq
pyxzychoznsyngbhenpht poufejp,hejhbxoh mhasxthoejhouiyjhugqhzuyljq
uix ohoejhsxxtkhEnphjcjphpexgjhmusonf yusychisnbeoyc,hugqhejhajyohng
oeuohfxganqjgo,hfuyt,hugqheummchasutjhxahtngqhzenfehuyzucphfutjhuaojs
ejheuqhoexsx beychaufjqhenphmxpnonxgkhJrjscoengbhzuphposunbeohugq
fyjus,h. pohuphuaojshaxstjshqucphxahsjflxgngbkhEjhpeurjq,hoxxlhuhfxyq
iuoe,hqsjppjqhugqhzjgohx ok


Feumojsh21

“Zj’rjhfxtjhoxhajofehcx khCx sh_yjppnrj_hyupojqhuhbxxqhontjhoxquc,”
punqhMjosnoplckh“Zjyy,hnphnohxrjs?”

“Nohnphxrjs,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hptnyngbhznoehenphjcjphxgyc,hugq
oznsyngbhoejhonmphxahenpht poufejphuphfnsf tpmjfoychuphoex behuaojshoej
mjsajfohxsqjshngoxhzenfehenphuaaunspheuqhijjghisx beohugchxrjs-ixyqhxs
sumnqhtxrjtjgohtnbeohqnpo sihnok

“Cx ’sjhuyzucph. pohuphnahcx ’qhfxtjhx ohxahuhiuoehuaojshno,”hpunq
Mjosnoplckh“N’rjhfxtjhasxthBsnoplc’p”h(oeuohzuphzeuohoejchfuyyjqhoej
fxyxgjy);h“oejc’sjhjvmjfongbhcx k”

Rsxgplc,hznoex ohugpzjsngb,hyxxljqhuohenphfxtsuqj,hoenglngbhxa
pxtjoengbhjypjk

“Cjp;hnphoeuoht pnfhuohenphmyufj?”hejhpunq,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhautnynus
px gqphxahmxyluphugqhzuyodjphayxuongbhufsxpphoxhentkh“Zeuo’phoejhaêoj?”

“Pjsm exrplxc’phfxtjk”

“Ueu!”hpunqhRsxgplc,h“zec,hNhqnqg’ohlgxzk”

Oejhptnyjhnghenphjcjphbyjutjqhtxsjhisnbeoychoeughjrjsk

Eurngbhxgfjhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoeuohejhzupheummchnghenphyxrj,hoeuohej
pufsnanfjqhenphutinonxghoxhno—eurngbhugczuchouljgh mhoenphmxpnonxg,
Rsxgplchzuphngfumuiyjhxahajjyngbhjnoejshjgrnx phxahPjsm exrplxchxshe so
znoehenthaxshgxohfxtngbhanspohoxhenthzejghejhfutjhoxhoejhsjbntjgok
Pjsm exrplxchzuphuhbxxqhasnjgq,hugqhejhzuphqjynbeojqhejheuqhfxtjk

“Ue,hN’thrjschbyuq!”

Oejhfxyxgjy,hQjtng,heuqhouljghuhyusbjhfx goschex pjkhOejhzexyjhmusoc
zjsjhnghoejhznqjhyxzjshiuyfxgckhNghoejhfx socusqhoejhanspohxi.jfophoeuo
tjohRsxgplc’phjcjphzjsjhuhiugqhxahpngbjsphnghzenojhyngjghfxuop,
pougqngbhgjushuhiussjyhxahrxqlu,hugqhoejhsxi po,hbxxq-e txsjqhanb sjhxa
oejhfxyxgjyhp ssx gqjqhichxaanfjspkhEjheuqhbxgjhx ohuphaushuphoejhanspo
pojmhxahoejhiuyfxgchugqhzuphyx qychpex ongbhufsxpphoejhiugqhoeuohmyucjq
Xaajgiufe’phw uqsnyyj,hzurngbhenphustphugqhbnrngbhpxtjhxsqjsphoxhuhajz
pxyqnjsphpougqngbhxghxgjhpnqjkhUhbsx mhxahpxyqnjsp,huhw usojstupojs,
ugqhpjrjsuyhp iuyojsgphfutjh mhoxhoejhiuyfxgchznoehRsxgplckhOejhfxyxgjy
sjo sgjqhoxhoejhouiyj,hzjgohx ohubunghxgoxhoejhpojmphznoehuho tiyjshng
enpheugq,hugqhmsxmxpjqhoejhoxupo,h“Oxhoejhejuyoehxahx shaxstjshfxtsuqj,
oejhbuyyugohbjgjsuy,hMsngfjhPjsm exrplxckhE ssue!”

OejhfxyxgjyhzuphaxyyxzjqhichPjsm exrplxc,hzexhfutjhx ohxgoxhoejhpojmp
ptnyngb,hznoehuhbyupphnghenpheugqk

“Cx huyzucphbjohcx gbjs,hIxgqusjglx,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhsxpc-fejfljq,
ptuso-yxxlngbhw usojstupojshpougqngbh. pohijaxsjhent,hponyyhcx gbnpe
yxxlngbhoex behqxngbhenphpjfxgqhojsthxahpjsrnfjk

NohzuphoesjjhcjusphpngfjhRsxgplcheuqhpjjghPjsm exrplxckhEjhyxxljqhtxsj
sxi po,heuqhyjohenphzenpljsphbsxz,hi ohzuphponyyhoejhputjhbsufja y
fsjuo sj,hzexpjhaufjhugqhanb sjhzjsjhjrjghtxsjhposnlngbhasxthoejns
pxaogjpphugqhgxinynochoeughoejnshiju ockhOejhxgychfeugbjhRsxgplc
qjojfojqhnghenthzuphoeuohp iq jq,hfxgong uyhsuqnugfjhxahijutngbhfxgojgo
zenfehpjooyjphxghoejhaufjphxahtjghzexhusjhp ffjppa yhugqhusjhp sjhxa
oejhsjfxbgnonxghxahoejnshp ffjpphichjrjscxgjkhRsxgplchlgjzhoeuohsuqnugo
uns,hugqhnttjqnuojychxipjsrjqhnohnghPjsm exrplxck

UphPjsm exrplxchfutjhqxzghoejhpojmphejhpuzhRsxgplckhUhptnyjhxahmyjup sj
ynbeojqh mhenphaufjkhEjhoxppjqhenphejuqh mzusqphugqhzurjqhoejhbyupphng
enpheugq,hbsjjongbhRsxgplc,hugqhpexzngbhenthichoejhbjpo sjhoeuohej
fx yqhgxohfxtjhoxhenthijaxsjhoejhw usojstupojs,hzexhpoxxqhfsugngb
axszusqhenphynmphsjuqchoxhijhlnppjqk

“Ejsjhejhnp!”hpex ojqhoejhfxyxgjykh“Cupernghoxyqhtjhcx hzjsjhnghxgjhxa
cx shbyxxtchojtmjspk”

Pjsm exrplxchlnppjqhoejhtxnpo,hasjpehynmphxahoejhbuyyugo-yxxlngb
w usojstupojs,hugqhznmngbhenphtx oehznoehenpheugqljsfenja,hzjgoh mhox
Rsxgplck

“ExzhbyuqhNhut!”hejhpunq,hpw jjdngbhenpheugqhugqhqsuzngbhenthxghxgj
pnqjk

“Cx hyxxlhuaojshent,”hoejhfxyxgjyhpex ojqhoxhCuperng,hmxngongbhox
Rsxgplc;hugqhejhzjgohqxzghijyxzhoxhoejhpxyqnjspk

“Zechzjsjg’ohcx huohoejhsufjphcjpojsquc?hNhjvmjfojqhoxhpjjhcx hoejsj,”
punqhRsxgplc,hpfs ongndngbhPjsm exrplxck

“Nhqnqhbx,hi ohyuojkhNhijbhcx shmusqxg,”hejhuqqjq,hugqhejho sgjqhoxhoej
uq. ougo:h“Myjupjheurjhoenphqnrnqjqhasxthtj,hjufehtughupht fehuphno
s gphoxk”hUgqhejhe ssnjqychoxxlhgxojphaxshoesjjhe gqsjqhsx iyjphasxt
enphmxfljoixxl,hiy pengbhuhynooyjk

“Rsxgplc!hEurjhugcoengbhoxhjuohxshqsngl?”hupljqhCuperngkh“En,hpxtjoengb
axshoejhfx gohoxhjuo!hUe,hejsjhnohnp:heurjhuhbyupp!”

Oejhaêojhuohoejhfxyxgjy’phyupojqhuhyxgbhzenyjkhOejsjhzuphuhbsjuohqjuy
xahqsnglngbkhOejchoxppjqhPjsm exrplxchnghoejhunshugqhfu beohenthubung
pjrjsuyhontjpkhOejghoejchqnqhoejhputjhoxhoejhfxyxgjykhOejg,hoxhoej
uffxtmugntjgohxahoejhiugq,hoejhfxyxgjyhentpjyahqugfjqhznoehMjosnoplck
Oejghoejhfxyxgjy,hzexhijbughoxhpexzhpnbgphxahajjiyjgjpp,hpuohqxzghxghu
ijgfehnghoejhfx socusqhugqhijbughqjtxgposuongbhoxhCupernghoej
p mjsnxsnochxahS ppnuhxrjshMs ppnu,hjpmjfnuyychnghfuruyschuooufl,hugq
oejsjhzuphuhy yyhnghoejhsjrjyschaxshuhtxtjgokhPjsm exrplxchzjgohngox
oejhex pjhoxhoejhiuoesxxthoxhzupehenpheugqphugqhax gqhRsxgplchoejsj;
RsxgplchzuphqsjgfengbhenphejuqhznoehzuojskhEjheuqhouljghxaahenphfxuo
ugqhm ohenphp gi sgo,heunschgjflh gqjshoejhoum,hugqhzuphs iingbhnohugq
enphejuqhznoehenpheugqpkhZejghejheuqhangnpejq,hRsxgplchpuohqxzghic
Pjsm exrplxckhOejchixoehpuohqxzghnghoejhiuoesxxthxghuhyx gbj,hugqhu
fxgrjspuonxghijbughzenfehzuphrjschngojsjpongbhoxhixoehxahoejtk

“N’rjhuyzucphijjghejusngbhuix ohcx hoesx behtchznaj,”hpunq
Pjsm exrplxckh“N’thbyuqhcx ’rjhijjghpjjngbhejshmsjoochxaojgk”

“Pej’phasnjgqychznoehRuscu,hugqhoejc’sjhoejhxgychzxtjghnghMjojspi sbhN
fusjhuix ohpjjngb,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,hptnyngbkhEjhptnyjqhijfu pjhej
axsjpuzhoejhoxmnfhoejhfxgrjspuonxghzx yqho sghxg,hugqhejhzuphbyuqhxa
nok

“Oejhxgychxgjp?”hPjsm exrplxchw jsnjq,hptnyngbk

“Cjp;hugqhNhejusqhgjzphxahcx ,hi ohgxohxgychoesx behcx shznaj,”hpunq
Rsxgplc,hfejflngbhenphengohichuhpojsghjvmsjppnxghxahaufjkh“Nhzup
bsjuoychqjynbeojqhoxhejushxahcx shp ffjpp,hi ohgxohuhinohp smsnpjqkhN
jvmjfojqhjrjghtxsjk”

Pjsm exrplxchptnyjqkhP fehughxmngnxghxahenthzuphxirnx pychubsjjuiyjhox
ent,hugqhejhqnqhgxohoenglhnohgjfjppuschoxhfxgfjuyhnok

“Zjyy,hNhxghoejhfxgosuschjvmjfojqhyjpp—N’yyhxzghasuglyckhI ohN’thbyuq,
rjschbyuqkhN’thutinonx p;hoeuo’phtchzjulgjpp,hugqhNhfxgajpphoxhnok”

“Mjseumphcx hzx yqg’ohfxgajpphoxhnohnahcx heuqg’ohijjghp ffjppa y,”
punqhRsxgplck

“Nhqxg’ohp mmxpjhpx,”hpunqhPjsm exrplxc,hptnyngbhubungkh“Nhzxg’ohpuc
ynajhzx yqg’ohijhzxsoehynrngbhznoex ohno,hi ohnohzx yqhijhq yykhXa
fx spjhNhtuchijhtnpouljg,hi ohNhaugfchNheurjhuhfjsounghfumufnochaxshoej
yngjhN’rjhfexpjg,hugqhoeuohmxzjshxahugchpxsohnghtcheugqp,hnahnohnphox
ij,hznyyhijhijoojshoeughnghoejheugqphxahuhbxxqhtugchmjxmyjhNhlgxz,”
punqhPjsm exrplxc,hznoehijutngbhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahp ffjpp;h“ugqhpxhoej
gjusjshNhbjohoxhno,hoejhijoojshmyjupjqhNhutk”

“Mjseumphoeuohnphos jhaxshcx ,hi ohgxohaxshjrjscxgjkhNh pjqhoxhoenglhpx
oxx,hi ohejsjhNhynrjhugqhoenglhynajhzxsoehynrngbhgxohxgychaxshoeuok”

“Oejsjhno’phx o!hejsjhnohfxtjp!”hpunqhPjsm exrplxc,hyu bengbkh“Jrjs
pngfjhNhejusqhuix ohcx ,huix ohcx shsja puy,hNhijbugkkkkhXahfx spj,hN
ummsxrjqhxahzeuohcx hqnqkhI ohoejsjhusjhzucphxahqxngbhjrjscoengbkhUgqhN
oenglhcx shufonxghzuphbxxqhnghnopjya,hi ohcx hqnqg’ohqxhnohw nojhnghoej
zuchcx hx beohoxheurjhqxgjk”

“Zeuo’phqxgjhfug’ohijh gqxgj,hugqhcx hlgxzhNhgjrjshbxhiuflhxghzeuohN’rj
qxgjkhUgqhijpnqjp,hN’thrjschzjyyhxaak”

“Rjschzjyyhxaa—axshoejhontjkhI ohcx ’sjhgxohpuonpanjqhznoehoeuokhN
zx yqg’ohpuchoenphoxhcx shisxoejskhEj’phuhgnfjhfenyq,hynljhx shexpo
ejsjkhOejsjhejhbxjp!”hejhuqqjq,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhsxushxah“e ssue!”—“ugq
ej’pheummc,hi ohoeuohqxjphgxohpuonpachcx k”

“Nhqnqg’ohpuchnohqnqhpuonpachtjk”

“Cjp,hi ohoeuo’phgxohoejhxgychoengbkhP fehtjghuphcx husjhzugojqk”

“Ichzext?”

“Ichzext?hIchpxfnjoc,hichS ppnukhS ppnuhgjjqphtjg;hpejhgjjqphuhmusoc,
xshjypjhjrjscoengbhbxjphugqhznyyhbxhoxhoejhqxbpk”

“Exzhqxhcx htjug?hIjsojgjr’phmusochubungpohoejhS ppnughfxtt gnpop?”

“Gx,”hpunqhPjsm exrplxc,hasxzgngbhznoehrjvuonxghuohijngbhp pmjfojqhxa
p fehughuip sqnockh“_Ox ohçuhjpoh gjhiyub j_khOeuo’phuyzucphijjghugq
uyzucphznyyhijkhOejsjhusjhgxhfxtt gnpopkhI ohngosnb ngbhmjxmyjheurjhox
ngrjgohuhgxvnx p,hqugbjsx phmusockhNo’phughxyqhosnflkhGx,hzeuo’phzugojq
nphuhmxzjsa yhmusochxahngqjmjgqjgohtjghynljhcx hugqhtjk”

“I ohzechpx?”hRsxgplchtjgonxgjqhuhajzhtjghzexhzjsjhnghmxzjskh“Zec
usjg’ohoejchngqjmjgqjgohtjg?”

“Pntmychijfu pjhoejcheurjhgxo,hxsheurjhgxoheuqhasxthinsoe,hug
ngqjmjgqjgohaxso gj;hoejc’rjhgxoheuqhuhgutj,hoejc’rjhgxohijjghfyxpjhox
oejhp ghugqhfjgojshuphzjheurjkhOejchfughijhix beohjnoejshichtxgjchxshic
aurxskhUgqhoejcheurjhoxhangqhuhp mmxsohaxshoejtpjyrjphnghngrjgongbhu
mxynfckhUgqhoejchisngbhaxszusqhpxtjhgxonxg,hpxtjhmxynfchoeuohoejchqxg’o
ijynjrjhng,hoeuohqxjpheust;hugqhoejhzexyjhmxynfchnphsjuyychxgychuhtjugp
oxhuhbxrjsgtjgohex pjhugqhpxht fehngfxtjkh_Fjyuhg’jpohmuphmy phanghw j
çu_,hzejghcx hbjohuhmjjmhuohoejnshfusqpkhNhtuchijhngajsnxshoxhoejt,
po mnqjshmjseump,hoex behNhqxg’ohpjjhzechNhpex yqhijhngajsnxshoxhoejtk
I ohcx hugqhNheurjhxgjhntmxsougohuqrugoubjhxrjshoejthaxshfjsoung,hng
ijngbhtxsjhqnaanf yohoxhi ckhUgqhp fehtjghusjhtxsjhgjjqjqhoeughjrjsk”

Rsxgplchynpojgjqhuoojgonrjyc,hi ohejhzuphgxohpxht fehngojsjpojqhichoej
tjugngbhxahoejhzxsqphuphichoejhuoono qjhxahPjsm exrplxchzexhzuphuysjuqc
fxgojtmyuongbhuhpos bbyjhznoehoejhjvnpongbhmxzjsp,hugqhuysjuqcheuqhenp
ynljphugqhqnpynljphnghoeuohenbejshzxsyq,hzenyjhenphxzghngojsjpohnghoej
bxrjsgngbhzxsyqhqnqhgxohbxhijcxgqhoejhngojsjpophxahenphsjbntjgok
Rsxgplchajyo,hoxx,hexzhmxzjsa yhPjsm exrplxchtnbeohijfxtjhoesx behenp
 gtnpouluiyjhauf yochaxshoenglngbhoengbphx ohugqhaxshoulngbhoengbphng,
oesx behenphngojyynbjgfjhugqhbnaohxahzxsqp,hpxhsusjychtjohznoehnghoej
zxsyqhnghzenfehejhtxrjqkhUgq,hupeutjqhuphejhzuphxahoejhajjyngb,hejhajyo
jgrnx pk

“PonyyhNheurjg’ohoejhxgjhoengbhxahtxpohntmxsougfjhaxshoeuo,”hej
ugpzjsjq;h“Nheurjg’ohoejhqjpnsjhaxshmxzjskhNheuqhnohxgfj,hi ohno’p
bxgjk”

“Jvf pjhtj,hoeuo’phgxohos j,”hpunqhPjsm exrplxc,hptnyngbk

“Cjp,hnohnphos j,hnohnphos jhkkkhgxz!”hRsxgplchuqqjq,hoxhijhos oea yk

“Cjp,hno’phos jhgxz,hoeuo’phugxoejshoengb;hi ohoeuoh_gxz_hzxg’ohyupo
axsjrjsk”

“Mjseump,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplck

“Cx hpuch_mjseump_,”hPjsm exrplxchzjgohxg,huphoex behb jppngbhenp
oex beop,h“i ohNhpuch_axshfjsoung_khUgqhoeuo’phzeuohNhzugojqhoxhpjjhcx 
axskhCx shufonxghzuph. pohzeuohnohpex yqheurjhijjgkhNhpjjhoeuo,hi ohcx 
x beohgxohoxhljjmhnoh mkhNhxgychuplhcx hoxhbnrjhtjh_fusojhiyugfej_khN’t
gxohbxngbhoxhxaajshcx htchmsxojfonxghkkkhoex be,hngqjjq,hzechpex yqg’o
Nhmsxojfohcx ?—cx ’rjhmsxojfojqhtjhxaojghjgx be!hNhpex yqhexmjhx s
asnjgqpenmhsnpjphuixrjhuyyhoeuohpxsohxahoengbkhCjp,”hejhpunq,hptnyngb
oxhenthuphojgqjsychuphuhzxtug,h“bnrjhtjh_fusojhiyugfej_,hsjonsjhasxt
oejhsjbntjgo,hugqhN’yyhqsuzhcx h mzusqphntmjsfjmoniyck”

“I ohcx ht poh gqjspougqhoeuohNhzugohgxoengb,”hpunqhRsxgplc,h“jvfjmo
oeuohuyyhpex yqhijhuphnohnpk”

Pjsm exrplxchbxoh mhugqhpoxxqhaufngbhentk

“Cx hpuchoeuohuyyhpex yqhijhuphnohnpkhNh gqjspougqhzeuohoeuohtjugpkhI o
ynpojg:hzj’sjhoejhputjhubj,hcx ’rjhlgxzghuhbsjuojshg tijshxahzxtjg
mjseumphoeughNheurjk”hPjsmxexrplxc’phptnyjhugqhbjpo sjphoxyqhRsxgplc
oeuohejht pog’ohijhuasunq,hoeuohejhzx yqhijhojgqjshugqhfusja yhng
ox fengbhoejhpxsjhmyufjkh“I ohN’thtussnjq,hugqhijynjrjhtj,hnghbjoongb
oxhlgxzhoexsx beychxgj’phznaj,hnahxgjhyxrjphejs,huphpxtjxgjheuphpunq,
xgjhbjophoxhlgxzhuyyhzxtjghijoojshoeughnahxgjhlgjzhoex pugqphxahoejtk”

“Zj’sjhfxtngbhqnsjfoyc!”hRsxgplchpex ojqhoxhughxaanfjs,hzexhyxxljqhngox
oejhsxxthugqhfuyyjqhoejthoxhoejhfxyxgjyk

RsxgplchzuphyxgbngbhgxzhoxhejushoxhoejhjgqhugqhlgxzhzeuohPjsm exrpljc
zx yqhpuchoxhentk

“Ugqhejsj’phtchxmngnxghaxshcx khZxtjghusjhoejhfenjahpo tiyngbhiyxflhng
uhtug’phfusjjskhNo’pheusqhoxhyxrjhuhzxtughugqhqxhugcoengbkhOejsj’phxgyc
xgjhzuchxaheurngbhyxrjhfxgrjgnjgoychznoex ohnophijngbhu
engqsugfj—oeuo’phtussnubjkhExz,hexzhuthNhoxhojyyhcx hzeuohNhtjug?”hpunq
Pjsm exrplxc,hzexhynljqhpntnyjpkh“Zunohuhtng oj,hzunohuhtng oj!hCjp,
. pohuphcx hfughxgychfusschuh_ausqju _hugqhqxhpxtjoengbhznoehcx s
eugqp,hzejghoejh_ausqju _hnphonjqhxghcx shiufl,hugqhoeuo’phtussnubjk
Ugqhoeuo’phzeuohNhajyohzejghNhzuphtussnjqkhTcheugqphzjsjhp qqjgychpjo
asjjkhI ohoxhqsubhoeuoh_ausqju _huix ohznoehcx hznoex ohtussnubj,hcx s
eugqphznyyhuyzucphijhpxha yyhoeuohcx hfughqxhgxoengbkhYxxlhuohTuduglxr,
uohLs mxrkhOejc’rjhs ngjqhoejnshfusjjsphaxshoejhpuljhxahzxtjgk”

“Zeuohzxtjg!”hpunqhRsxgplc,hsjfuyyngbhoejhAsjgfezxtughugqhoejhufosjpp
znoehzexthoejhozxhtjghejheuqhtjgonxgjqhzjsjhfxggjfojqk

“Oejhanstjshoejhzxtug’phaxxongbhnghpxfnjoc,hoejhzxspjhnohnpkhOeuo’p
t fehoejhputjhup—gxohtjsjychfusscngbhoejh_ausqju _hnghcx shustp—i o
ojusngbhnohuzuchasxthpxtjxgjhjypjk”

“Cx heurjhgjrjshyxrjq,”hRsxgplchpunqhpxaoyc,hyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsj
enthugqhoenglngbhxahUgguk

“MjseumpkhI ohcx hsjtjtijshzeuohN’rjhpunqhoxhcx khUgqhugxoejshoengb,
zxtjghusjhuyyhtxsjhtuojsnuynponfhoeughtjgkhZjhtuljhpxtjoengbhnttjgpj
x ohxahyxrj,hi ohoejchusjhuyzucph_ojssj-à-ojssj_k”

“Qnsjfoyc,hqnsjfoyc!”hejhfsnjqhoxhuhaxxotughzexhfutjhngkhI ohoej
axxotugheuqhgxohfxtjhoxhfuyyhoejthubung,huphejhp mmxpjqkhOejhaxxotug
isx beohRsxgplchuhgxojk

“Uhtughisx beohnohasxthMsngfjpphOrjsplucuk”

Rsxgplchxmjgjqhoejhyjoojs,hugqhay pejqhfsntpxgk

“Tchejuq’phijb ghoxhufej;hN’thbxngbhextj,”hejhpunqhoxhPjsm exrplxck

“Xe,hbxxq-icjhoejgkhCx hbnrjhtjh_fusojhiyugfej!_”

“Zj’yyhouylhuix ohnohyuojshxg;hN’yyhyxxlhcx h mhnghMjojspi sbk”


Feumojsh22

Nohzuphpnvhx’fyxflhuysjuqc,hugqhpx,hnghxsqjshoxhijhoejsjhw nflyc,hugq
uohoejhputjhontjhgxohoxhqsnrjhznoehenphxzghexspjp,hlgxzghoxhjrjscxgj,
RsxgplchbxohngoxhCuperng’phensjqhayc,hugqhoxyqhoejhqsnrjshoxhqsnrjhup
w nflychuphmxppniyjkhNohzuphuhsxxtc,hxyq-aupenxgjqhayc,hznoehpjuophaxs
ax skhEjhpuohnghxgjhfxsgjs,hposjofejqhenphyjbphx ohxghoejhasxgohpjuo,
ugqhpuglhngoxhtjqnouonxgk

Uhrub jhpjgpjhxahoejhxsqjshngoxhzenfehenphuaaunspheuqhijjghisx beo,hu
rub jhsjfxyyjfonxghxahoejhasnjgqyngjpphugqhayuoojschxahPjsm exrplxc,
zexheuqhfxgpnqjsjqhenthuhtughoeuohzuphgjjqjq,hugqhtxpohxahuyy,hoej
ugonfnmuonxghxahoejhngojsrnjzhijaxsjhent—uyyhiyjgqjqhngoxhuhbjgjsuy,
.xcx phpjgpjhxahynajkhOenphajjyngbhzuphpxhposxgbhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohejym
ptnyngbkhEjhqsxmmjqhenphyjbp,hfsxppjqhxgjhyjbhxrjshoejhxoejshlgjj,hugq
oulngbhnohnghenpheugq,hajyohoejhpmsngbcht pfyjhxahoejhfuya,hzejsjhno
euqhijjghbsudjqhoejhquchijaxsjhichenphauyy,hugqhyjugngbhiuflhejhqsjz
pjrjsuyhqjjmhisjuoepk

“N’theummc,hrjscheummc!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakhEjheuqhxaojghijaxsjheuq
oenphpjgpjhxahmecpnfuyh.xchnghenphxzghixqc,hi ohejheuqhgjrjshajyohpx
axgqhxahentpjya,hxahenphxzghixqc,huphuohoeuohtxtjgokhEjhjg.xcjqhoej
pynbeohufejhnghenphposxgbhyjb,hejhjg.xcjqhoejht pf yushpjgpuonxghxa
txrjtjgohnghenphfejpohuphejhisjuoejqkhOejhisnbeo,hfxyqhU b pohquc,
zenfeheuqhtuqjhUgguhajjyhpxhexmjyjpp,hpjjtjqhoxhenthljjgychpont yuongb,
ugqhsjasjpejqhenphaufjhugqhgjflhoeuohponyyhongbyjqhasxthoejhfxyqhzuojsk
Oejhpfjgohxahisnyynugongjhxghenphzenpljsphpos flhenthuphmusonf yusyc
myjupugohnghoejhasjpehunskhJrjscoengbhejhpuzhasxthoejhfussnubjhzngqxz,
jrjscoengbhnghoeuohfxyqhm sjhuns,hnghoejhmuyjhynbeohxahoejhp gpjo,hzup
uphasjpe,hugqhbuc,hugqhposxgbhuphejhzuphentpjya:hoejhsxxaphxahoej
ex pjphpengngbhnghoejhsucphxahoejhpjoongbhp g,hoejhpeusmhx oyngjphxa
ajgfjphugqhugbyjphxahi nyqngbp,hoejhanb sjphxahmuppjsp-ic,hoej
fussnubjphoeuohtjohenthgxzhugqhoejg,hoejhtxonxgyjpphbsjjghxahoejhosjjp
ugqhbsupp,hoejhanjyqphznoehjrjgychqsuzgha ssxzphxahmxouoxjp,hugqhoej
pyugongbhpeuqxzphoeuohajyyhasxthoejhex pjp,hugqhosjjp,hugqhi pejp,hugq
jrjghasxthoejhsxzphxahmxouoxjp—jrjscoengbhzuphisnbeohynljhuhmsjooc
yugqpfumjh. pohangnpejqhugqhasjpeychrusgnpejqk

“Bjohxg,hbjohxg!”hejhpunqhoxhoejhqsnrjs,hm oongbhenphejuqhx ohxahoej
zngqxz,hugqhm yyngbhuhoesjj-sx iyjhgxojhx ohxahenphmxfljohejheugqjqhno
oxhoejhtughuphejhyxxljqhsx gqkhOejhqsnrjs’pheugqha tiyjqhznoehpxtjoengb
uohoejhyutm,hoejhzenmhfsufljq,hugqhoejhfussnubjhsxyyjqhsumnqychuyxgb
oejhptxxoehenbesxuqk

“Nhzugohgxoengb,hgxoengbhi ohoenpheummngjpp,”hejhoex beo,hpousngbhuo
oejhixgjhi ooxghxahoejhijyyhnghoejhpmufjhijozjjghoejhzngqxzp,hugq
mnfo sngbhoxhentpjyahUgguh. pohuphejheuqhpjjghejshyupohontjkh“UgqhuphN
bxhxg,hNhyxrjhejshtxsjhugqhtxsjkhEjsj’phoejhbusqjghxahoejhRsjqjhRnyyuk
Zejsjuix ophznyyhpejhij?hZejsj?hExz?hZechqnqhpejhanvhxghoenphmyufjhox
tjjohtj,hugqhzechqxjphpejhzsnojhnghIjopc’phyjoojs?”hejhoex beo,
zxgqjsngbhgxzhaxshoejhanspohontjhuohnokhI ohoejsjhzuphgxzhgxhontjhaxs
zxgqjskhEjhfuyyjqhoxhoejhqsnrjshoxhpoxmhijaxsjhsjufengbhoejhurjg j,hugq
xmjgngbhoejhqxxs,h. tmjqhx ohxahoejhfussnubjhuphnohzuphtxrngb,hugqhzjgo
ngoxhoejhurjg jhoeuohyjqh mhoxhoejhex pjkhOejsjhzuphgxhxgjhnghoej
urjg j;hi ohyxxlngbhsx gqhoxhoejhsnbeohejhfu beohpnbeohxahejskhEjshaufj
zuphenqqjghichuhrjny,hi ohejhqsuglhnghznoehbyuqhjcjphoejhpmjfnuy
txrjtjgohnghzuylngb,hmjf ynushoxhejshuyxgj,hoejhpyxmjhxahoejhpex yqjsp,
ugqhoejhpjoongbhxahoejhejuq,hugqhuohxgfjhuhpxsohxahjyjfosnfhpexflhsug
uyyhxrjshentkhZnoehasjpehaxsfj,hejhajyohfxgpfnx phxahentpjyahasxthoej
pmsngbchtxonxgphxahenphyjbphoxhoejhtxrjtjgophxahenphy gbphuphej
isjuoejq,hugqhpxtjoengbhpjohenphynmphoznofengbk

.xngngbhent,hpejhmsjppjqhenpheugqhonbeoyck

“Cx ’sjhgxohugbschoeuohNhpjgohaxshcx ?hNhuipxy ojycheuqhoxhpjjhcx ,”
pejhpunq;hugqhoejhpjsnx phugqhpjohyngjhxahejshynmp,hzenfehejhpuzh gqjs
oejhrjny,hosugpaxstjqhenphtxxqhuohxgfjk

“Nhugbsc!hI ohexzheurjhcx hfxtj,hzejsjhasxt?”

“Gjrjshtngq,”hpejhpunq,hyucngbhejsheugqhxghenp,h“fxtjhuyxgb,hNht po
ouylhoxhcx k”

Ejhpuzhoeuohpxtjoengbheuqheummjgjq,hugqhoeuohoejhngojsrnjzhzx yqhgxohij
uh.xcx phxgjkhNghejshmsjpjgfjhejheuqhgxhznyyhxahenphxzg:hznoex o
lgxzngbhoejhbsx gqphxahejshqnposjpp,hejhuysjuqchajyohoejhputjhqnposjpp
 gfxgpfnx pychmuppngbhxrjshentk

“Zeuohnphno?hzeuo?”hejhupljqhejs,hpw jjdngbhejsheugqhznoehenphjyixz,
ugqhoscngbhoxhsjuqhejshoex beophnghejshaufjk

Pejhzuyljqhxghuhajzhpojmphnghpnyjgfj,hbuoejsngbh mhejshfx subj;hoejg
p qqjgychpejhpoxmmjqk

“Nhqnqhgxohojyyhcx hcjpojsquc,”hpejhijbug,hisjuoengbhw nflychugq
munga yyc,h“oeuohfxtngbhextjhznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehNhoxyqhent
jrjscoengbhkkkhoxyqhenthNhfx yqhgxohijhenphznaj,hoeuohkkkhugqhoxyqhent
jrjscoengbk”

Ejhejusqhejs,h gfxgpfnx pychijgqngbhenphzexyjhanb sjhqxzghoxhejshup
oex behexmngbhnghoenphzuchoxhpxaojghoejheusqgjpphxahejshmxpnonxghaxs
ejskhI ohqnsjfoychpejheuqhpunqhoenphejhp qqjgychqsjzhentpjyah m,hugqhu
msx qhugqheusqhjvmsjppnxghfutjhxrjshenphaufjk

“Cjp,hcjp,hoeuo’phijoojs,huhoex pugqhontjphijoojs!hNhlgxzhexzhmunga y
nohzup,”hejhpunqkhI ohpejhzuphgxohynpojgngbhoxhenphzxsqp,hpejhzup
sjuqngbhenphoex beophasxthoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphaufjkhPejhfx yqhgxo
b jpphoeuohoeuohjvmsjppnxghusxpjhasxthoejhanspohnqjuhoeuohmsjpjgojq
nopjyahoxhRsxgplc—oeuohuhq jyhzuphgxzhngjrnouiyjkhOejhnqjuhxahuhq jy
euqhgjrjshfsxppjqhejshtngq,hugqhpxhpejhm ohuhqnaajsjgohngojsmsjouonxg
xghoenphmuppngbhjvmsjppnxghxaheusqgjppk

Zejghpejhbxohejshe piugq’phyjoojs,hpejhlgjzhoejghuohoejhixooxthxahejs
ejusohoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqhbxhxghnghoejhxyqhzuc,hoeuohpejhzx yqhgxo
eurjhoejhposjgboehxahznyyhoxhaxsjbxhejshmxpnonxg,hoxhuiugqxghejshpxg,
ugqhoxh.xnghejshyxrjskhOejhtxsgngbhpmjgohuohMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’pheuq
fxganstjqhejshponyyhtxsjhnghoenpkhI ohoenphngojsrnjzhzuphponyyhxahoej
 otxpohbsurnochaxshejskhPejhexmjqhoeuohoenphngojsrnjzhzx yqhosugpaxst
ejshmxpnonxg,hugqhpurjhejskhNahxghejusngbhoenphgjzphejhzjsjhoxhpuchox
ejshsjpxy ojyc,hmuppnxguojyc,hznoex ohughngpougo’phzurjsngb:h“Oesxzh m
jrjscoengbhugqhfxtjhznoehtj!”hpejhzx yqhbnrjh mhejshpxghugqhbxhuzuc
znoehentkhI ohoenphgjzpheuqhgxohmsxq fjqhzeuohpejheuqhjvmjfojqhnghent;
ejhpntmychpjjtjqhuphoex behejhzjsjhsjpjgongbhpxtjhuaasxgok

“Nohzuphgxohnghoejhyjupohmunga yhoxhtjkhNoheummjgjqhxahnopjya,”hpej
punqhnssnouiyc;h“ugqhpjjkkkk”hpejhm yyjqhejshe piugq’phyjoojshx ohxa
ejshbyxrjk

“Nh gqjspougq,hNh gqjspougq,”hejhngojss mojqhejs,houlngbhoejhyjoojs,
i ohgxohsjuqngbhno,hugqhoscngbhoxhpxxoejhejskh“OejhxgjhoengbhNhyxgbjq
axs,hoejhxgjhoengbhNhmsucjqhaxs,hzuphoxhf ohpexsohoenphmxpnonxg,hpxhup
oxhqjrxojhtchynajhoxhcx sheummngjppk”

“Zechqxhcx hojyyhtjhoeuo?”hpejhpunqkh“Qxhcx hp mmxpjhNhfughqx iohno?hNa
Nhqx iojqkkkk”

“Zex’phoeuohfxtngb?”hpunqhRsxgplchp qqjgyc,hmxngongbhoxhozxhyuqnjp
zuylngbhoxzusqphoejtkh“Mjseumphoejchlgxzh p!”hugqhejhe ssnjqycho sgjq
xaa,hqsuzngbhejshuaojshenthngoxhuhpnqjhmuoek

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohfusj!”hpejhpunqkhEjshynmphzjsjhw nrjsngbkhUgqhejhaugfnjq
oeuohejshjcjphyxxljqhznoehposugbjha schuohenthasxth gqjshoejhrjnykh“N
ojyyhcx hoeuo’phgxohoejhmxngo—Nhfug’ohqx iohoeuo;hi ohpjjhzeuohej
zsnojphoxhtjkhSjuqhnok”hPejhpoxxqhponyyhubungk

Ubung,h. pohuphuohoejhanspohtxtjgohxahejusngbhxahejshs mo sjhznoehejs
e piugq,hRsxgplc,hxghsjuqngbhoejhyjoojs,hzuph gfxgpfnx pychfussnjqhuzuc
ichoejhguo suyhpjgpuonxghusx pjqhnghenthichenphxzghsjyuonxghoxhoej
ijosucjqhe piugqkhGxzhzenyjhejhejyqhenphyjoojshnghenpheugqp,hejhfx yq
gxohejymhmnfo sngbhoejhfeuyyjgbj,hzenfehejhzx yqhtxpohynljychangqhuo
extjhoxquchxshoxtxssxz,hugqhoejhq jyhnopjya,hnghzenfe,hznoehoejhputj
fxyqhugqheu beochjvmsjppnxghoeuohenphaufjhzuphupp tngbhuohoenphtxtjgo
ejhzx yqhuzunohoejhng. sjqhe piugq’phpexo,huaojsheurngbhentpjyahansjq
ngoxhoejhunskhUgqhuohoeuohngpougohoejsjhayupejqhufsxpphenphtngqhoej
oex beohxahzeuohPjsm exrplxcheuqh. pohpunqhoxhent,hugqhzeuohejheuq
entpjyahijjghoenglngbhnghoejhtxsgngb—oeuohnohzuphijoojshgxohoxhingq
entpjya—ugqhejhlgjzhoeuohoenphoex beohejhfx yqhgxohojyyhejsk

Eurngbhsjuqhoejhyjoojs,hejhsunpjqhenphjcjphoxhejs,hugqhoejsjhzuphgx
qjojstnguonxghnghoejtkhPejhpuzhuohxgfjhoeuohejheuqhijjghoenglngbhuix o
nohijaxsjhichentpjyakhPejhlgjzhoeuohzeuojrjshejhtnbeohpuchoxhejs,hej
zx yqhgxohpuchuyyhejhoex beokhUgqhpejhlgjzhoeuohejshyupohexmjheuq
aunyjqhejskhOenphzuphgxohzeuohpejheuqhijjghsjflxgngbhxgk

“Cx hpjjhoejhpxsohxahtughejhnp,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhpeulngbhrxnfj;
“ejkkkk”

“Axsbnrjhtj,hi ohNhsj.xnfjhuohno,”hRsxgplchngojss mojqkh“AxshBxq’p
pulj,hyjohtjhangnpe!”hejhuqqjq,henphjcjphntmyxsngbhejshoxhbnrjhenthontj
oxhjvmyunghenphzxsqpkh“Nhsj.xnfj,hijfu pjhoengbphfuggxo,hfuggxo
mxppniychsjtunghuphejhp mmxpjpk”

“Zechfug’ohoejc?”hUgguhpunq,hsjposungngbhejshojusp,hugqhxirnx pyc
uooufengbhgxhpxsohxahfxgpjw jgfjhoxhzeuohejhpunqkhPejhajyohoeuohejs
auojhzuphpjuyjqk

Rsxgplchtjugohoeuohuaojshoejhq jy—ngjrnouiyj,hejhoex beo—oengbphfx yq
gxohbxhxghuphijaxsj,hi ohejhpunqhpxtjoengbhqnaajsjgok

“Nohfug’ohbxhxgkhNhexmjhoeuohgxzhcx hznyyhyjurjhentkhNhexmj”—ejhzup
fxga pjq,hugqhsjqqjgjq—“oeuohcx hznyyhyjohtjhussugbjhugqhmyughx shynajk
Oxtxssxzkkkk”hejhzuphijbnggngbk

Pejhqnqhgxohyjohenthbxhxgk

“I ohtchfenyq!”hpejhpesnjljqkh“Cx hpjjhzeuohejhzsnojp!hNhpex yqheurjhox
yjurjhent,hugqhNhfug’ohugqhzxg’ohqxhoeuok”

“I o,haxshBxq’phpulj,hzenfehnphijoojs?—yjurjhcx shfenyq,hxshljjmh m
oenphqjbsuqngbhmxpnonxg?”

“Oxhzexthnphnohqjbsuqngb?”

“Oxhuyy,hugqhtxpohxahuyyhoxhcx k”

“Cx hpuchqjbsuqngbhkkkhqxg’ohpuchoeuokhOexpjhzxsqpheurjhgxhtjugngbhaxs
tj,”hpejhpunqhnghuhpeulngbhrxnfjkhPejhqnqhgxohzugohenthgxzhoxhpuchzeuo
zuph gos jkhPejheuqhgxoengbhyjaohejshi ohenphyxrj,hugqhpejhzugojqhox
yxrjhentkh“Qxg’ohcx h gqjspougqhoeuohasxthoejhquchNhyxrjqhcx 
jrjscoengbheuphfeugbjqhaxshtj?hAxshtjhoejsjhnphxgjhoengb,hugqhxgjhoengb
xgyc—cx shyxrjkhNahoeuo’phtngj,hNhajjyhpxhjvuyojq,hpxhposxgb,hoeuo
gxoengbhfughijhe tnynuongbhoxhtjkhNhuthmsx qhxahtchmxpnonxg,hijfu pj
kkkhmsx qhxahijngbhkkkhmsx qkkkk”hPejhfx yqhgxohpuchzeuohpejhzuphmsx q
xakhOjusphxahpeutjhugqhqjpmunshfexljqhejsh oojsugfjkhPejhpoxxqhponyy
ugqhpxiijqk

Ejhajyo,hoxx,hpxtjoengbhpzjyyngbhnghenphoesxuohugqhoznofengbhnghenp
gxpj,hugqhaxshoejhanspohontjhnghenphynajhejhajyohxghoejhmxngohxa
zjjmngbkhEjhfx yqhgxoheurjhpunqhjvufoychzeuohnohzuphox fejqhenthpxkhEj
ajyohpxsschaxshejs,hugqhejhajyohejhfx yqhgxohejymhejs,hugqhznoehoeuohej
lgjzhoeuohejhzuphoxhiyutjhaxshejshzsjofejqgjpp,hugqhoeuohejheuqhqxgj
pxtjoengbhzsxgbk

“Nphgxohuhqnrxsfjhmxppniyj?”hejhpunqhajjiyckhPejhpexxlhejshejuq,hgxo
ugpzjsngbkh“Fx yqg’ohcx houljhcx shpxg,hugqhponyyhyjurjhent?”

“Cjp;hi ohnohuyyhqjmjgqphxghentkhGxzhNht pohbxhoxhent,”hpejhpunq
pexsoyckhEjshmsjpjgontjgohoeuohuyyhzx yqhubunghbxhxghnghoejhxyqhzucheuq
gxohqjfjnrjqhejsk

“XghO jpquchNhpeuyyhijhnghMjojspi sb,hugqhjrjscoengbhfughijhpjooyjqk”

“Cjp,”hpejhpunqkh“I ohqxg’ohyjoh phouylhugchtxsjhxahnok”

Uggu’phfussnubj,hzenfehpejheuqhpjgohuzuc,hugqhxsqjsjqhoxhfxtjhiuflhox
oejhynooyjhbuojhxahoejhRsjqjhbusqjg,hqsxrjh mkhUgguhpunqhbxxq-icjhox
Rsxgplc,hugqhqsxrjhextjk


Feumojsh23

XghTxgquchoejsjhzuphoejh p uyhpnoongbhxahoejhFxttnppnxghxahoejh2gqhxa
. gjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuyljqhngoxhoejheuyyhzejsjhoejhpnoongbhzup
ejyq,hbsjjojqhoejhtjtijsphugqhoejhmsjpnqjgo,huph p uy,hugqhpuohqxzghng
enphmyufj,hm oongbhenpheugqhxghoejhmumjsphyunqhsjuqchijaxsjhentkhUtxgb
oejpjhmumjsphyuchoejhgjfjppuschjrnqjgfjhugqhuhsx behx oyngjhxahoej
pmjjfehejhngojgqjqhoxhtuljkhI ohejhqnqhgxohsjuyychgjjqhoejpjhqxf tjgopk
Ejhsjtjtijsjqhjrjschmxngo,hugqhqnqhgxohoenglhnohgjfjppuschoxhbxhxrjshng
enphtjtxschzeuohejhzx yqhpuckhEjhlgjzhoeuohzejghoejhontjhfutj,hugqhzejg
ejhpuzhenphjgjtchaufngbhent,hugqhpo qnx pychjgqjurxsngbhoxhupp tjhug
jvmsjppnxghxahngqnaajsjgfj,henphpmjjfehzx yqhayxzhxahnopjyahijoojshoeug
ejhfx yqhmsjmusjhnohgxzkhEjhajyohoeuohoejhntmxsohxahenphpmjjfehzuphxa
p fehtubgno qjhoeuohjrjschzxsqhxahnohzx yqheurjhzjnbeokhTjugontj,huphej
ynpojgjqhoxhoejh p uyhsjmxso,hejheuqhoejhtxpohnggxfjgohugqhngxaajgpnrj
unskhGxhxgj,hyxxlngbhuohenphzenojheugqp,hznoehoejnshpzxyyjghrjngphugq
yxgbhangbjsp,hpxhpxaoychposxlngbhoejhjqbjphxahoejhzenojhmumjshoeuohyuc
ijaxsjhent,hugqhuohoejhunshxahzjusngjpphznoehzenfehenphejuqhqsxxmjqhxg
xgjhpnqj,hzx yqheurjhp pmjfojqhoeuohnghuhajzhtng ojphuhoxssjgohxahzxsqp
zx yqhayxzhasxthenphynmphoeuohzx yqhusx pjhuhajusa yhpoxst,hpjohoej
tjtijsphpex ongbhugqhuoouflngbhxgjhugxoejs,hugqhaxsfjhoejhmsjpnqjgohox
fuyyhaxshxsqjskhZejghoejhsjmxsohzuphxrjs,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
uggx gfjqhnghenphp iq jq,hqjynfuojhrxnfjhoeuohejheuqhpjrjsuyhmxngophox
isngbhijaxsjhoejhtjjongbhnghsjbusqhoxhoejhFxttnppnxghaxshoej
SjxsbugnduonxghxahoejhGuonrjhOsnijpkhUyyhuoojgonxghzupho sgjqh mxghentk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfyjusjqhenphoesxuo,hugqhgxohyxxlngbhuohenp
xmmxgjgo,hi ohpjyjfongb,huphejhuyzucphqnqhzenyjhejhzuphqjynrjsngbhenp
pmjjfejp,hoejhanspohmjspxghpnoongbhxmmxpnojhent,hughngxaajgpnrjhynooyj
xyqhtug,hzexhgjrjsheuqhughxmngnxghxahugchpxsohnghoejhFxttnppnxg,hijbug
oxhjvmx gqhenphrnjzpkhZejghejhsjufejqhoejhmxngohuix ohoejha gqutjgouy
ugqhsuqnfuyhyuz,henphxmmxgjgoh. tmjqh mhugqhijbughoxhmsxojpokhPosjtxr,
zexhzuphuypxhuhtjtijshxahoejhFxttnppnxg,hugqhuypxhpo gbhoxhoejhw nfl,
ijbughqjajgqngbhentpjya,hugqhuyoxbjoejshuhpoxstchpnoongbhaxyyxzjq;hi o
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehosn tmejq,hugqhenphtxonxghzuphfussnjq,hoesjjhgjz
fxttnppnxgphzjsjhummxngojq,hugqhoejhgjvohquchnghuhfjsounghMjojspi sb
fnsfyjhgxoengbhjypjhzuphouyljqhxahi ohoenphpnoongbkhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’php ffjppheuqhijjghjrjghbsjuojshoeughejheuqhugonfnmuojqk

Gjvohtxsgngb,hO jpquc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hxghzulngbh m,hsjfxyyjfojq
znoehmyjup sjhenphosn tmehxahoejhmsjrnx phquc,hugqhejhfx yqhgxohejym
ptnyngb,hoex behejhosnjqhoxhummjushngqnaajsjgo,hzejghoejhfenja
pjfsjouschxahenphqjmusotjgo,hugvnx phoxhayuoojshent,hngaxstjqhenthxa
oejhs txsphoeuoheuqhsjufejqhenthfxgfjsgngbhzeuoheuqheummjgjqhnghoej
Fxttnppnxgk

Uipxsijqhnghi pngjpphznoehoejhfenjahpjfsjousc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
euqhfxtmyjojychaxsbxoojghoeuohnohzuphO jpquc,hoejhquchanvjqhichenthaxs
oejhsjo sghxahUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hugqhejhzuphp smsnpjqhugqhsjfjnrjqhu
pexflhxahuggxcugfjhzejghuhpjsrugohfutjhnghoxhngaxsthenthxahejshussnruyk

UgguheuqhussnrjqhnghMjojspi sbhjusychnghoejhtxsgngb;hoejhfussnubjheuq
ijjghpjgohoxhtjjohejshnghuffxsqugfjhznoehejshojyjbsut,hugqhpxhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehtnbeoheurjhlgxzghxahejshussnruykhI ohzejghpejhussnrjq,
ejhqnqhgxohtjjohejskhPejhzuphoxyqhoeuohejheuqhgxohcjohbxgjhx o,hi ohzup
i pchznoehenphpjfsjousckhPejhpjgohzxsqhoxhejshe piugqhoeuohpejheuq
fxtj,hzjgohoxhejshxzghsxxt,hugqhxff mnjqhejspjyahnghpxsongbhx ohejs
oengbp,hjvmjfongbhejhzx yqhfxtjhoxhejskhI ohughex shmuppjq;hejhqnqhgxo
fxtjkhPejhzjgohngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxthxghoejhmsjojvohxahbnrngbhpxtj
qnsjfonxgp,hugqhpmxljhyx qychxghm smxpj,hjvmjfongbhenthoxhfxtjhx o
oejsj;hi ohejhqnqhgxohfxtj,hoex behpejhejusqhenthbxhoxhoejhqxxshxahenp
po qchuphejhmusojqhasxthoejhfenjahpjfsjousckhPejhlgjzhoeuohejh p uyyc
zjgohx ohw nflychoxhenphxaanfj,hugqhpejhzugojqhoxhpjjhenthijaxsjhoeuo,
pxhoeuohoejnshuoono qjhoxhxgjhugxoejshtnbeohijhqjangjqk

Pejhzuyljqhufsxpphoejhqsuzngb-sxxthugqhzjgohsjpxy ojychoxhentkhZejghpej
zjgohngoxhenphpo qchejhzuphnghxaanfnuyh gnaxst,hxirnx pychsjuqchoxhbx
x o,hpnoongbhuohuhynooyjhouiyjhxghzenfehejhsjpojqhenphjyixzp,hyxxlngb
qj.jfojqychijaxsjhentkhPejhpuzhenthijaxsjhejhpuzhejs,hugqhpejhpuzhoeuo
ejhzuphoenglngbhxahejsk

Xghpjjngbhejs,hejhzx yqheurjhsnpjg,hi ohfeugbjqhenphtngq,hoejghenphaufj
ay pejqhexoyc—uhoengbhUgguheuqhgjrjshpjjghijaxsj,hugqhejhbxoh mhw nflyc
ugqhzjgohoxhtjjohejs,hyxxlngbhgxohuohejshjcjp,hi ohuixrjhoejthuohejs
axsjejuqhugqheunskhEjhzjgoh mhoxhejs,hoxxlhejshichoejheugq,hugqhupljq
ejshoxhpnohqxzgk

“Nhuthrjschbyuqhcx heurjhfxtj,”hejhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhejs,hugq
xirnx pychznpengbhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hejhpo oojsjqkhPjrjsuyhontjphej
osnjqhoxhijbnghoxhpmjul,hi ohpoxmmjqkhNghpmnojhxahoejhaufohoeuo,
msjmusngbhejspjyahaxshtjjongbhent,hpejheuqhpfexxyjqhejspjyahoxhqjpmnpj
ugqhsjmsxufehent,hpejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhpuchoxhent,hugqhpejhajyo
pxsschaxshentkhUgqhpxhoejhpnyjgfjhyupojqhaxshpxtjhontjkh“NphPjscxdeu
w nojhzjyy?”hejhpunq,hugqhgxohzunongbhaxshughugpzjs,hejhuqqjq:h“N
peug’ohijhqngngbhuohextjhoxquc,hugqhNheurjhbxohoxhbxhx ohqnsjfoyck”

“Nheuqhoex beohxahbxngbhoxhTxpfxz,”hpejhpunqk

“Gx,hcx hqnqhw noj,hw nojhsnbeohoxhfxtj,”hejhpunq,hugqhzuphpnyjgo
ubungk

Pjjngbhoeuohejhzuphmxzjsyjpphoxhijbnghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hpejhijbug
ejspjyak

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohenthugqhgxohqsxmmngbhejs
jcjph gqjshenphmjspnpojgohbudjhuohejsheuns,h“N’thuhb nyochzxtug,hN’thu
iuqhzxtug,hi ohNhuthoejhputjhuphNhzup,huphNhoxyqhcx hoejg,hugqhNheurj
fxtjhoxhojyyhcx hoeuohNhfughfeugbjhgxoengbk”

“Nheurjhupljqhcx hgxhw jponxghuix ohoeuo,”hejhpunq,huyyhuohxgfj,
sjpxy ojychugqhznoeheuosjqhyxxlngbhejshposunbeohnghoejhaufj;h“oeuohzup
uphNheuqhp mmxpjqk”h gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahugbjshejhummusjgoychsjbungjq
fxtmyjojhmxppjppnxghxahuyyhenphauf yonjpkh“I ohuphNhoxyqhcx hoejg,hugq
eurjhzsnoojghoxhcx ,”hejhpunqhnghuhoeng,hpesnyyhrxnfj,h“Nhsjmjuohgxz,
oeuohNhuthgxohix gqhoxhlgxzhoenpkhNhnbgxsjhnokhGxohuyyhznrjphusjhpx
lngqhuphcx ,hoxhijhnghp fehuhe sschoxhfxtt gnfuojhp fehubsjjuiyjhgjzp
oxhoejnshe piugqpk”hEjhyunqhpmjfnuyhjtmeupnphxghoejhzxsqh“ubsjjuiyjk”
“Nhpeuyyhnbgxsjhnohpxhyxgbhuphoejhzxsyqhlgxzphgxoengbhxahno,hpxhyxgbhup
tchgutjhnphgxohqnpbsufjqkhUgqhpxhNhpntmychngaxsthcx hoeuohx shsjyuonxgp
t pohijh. pohuphoejcheurjhuyzucphijjg,hugqhoeuohxgychnghoejhjrjgohxa
cx shfxtmsxtnpngbhtjhNhpeuyyhijhxiynbjqhoxhouljhpojmphoxhpjf sjhtc
exgxsk”

“I ohx shsjyuonxgphfuggxohijhoejhputjhuphuyzucp,”hUgguhijbughnghuhontnq
rxnfj,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoehqnptuck

Zejghpejhpuzhxgfjhtxsjhoexpjhfxtmxpjqhbjpo sjp,hejusqhoeuohpesnyy,
fenyqnpe,hugqhpusfuponfhrxnfj,hejshurjspnxghaxshenthjvongb npejqhejs
mnochaxshent,hugqhpejhajyohxgychuasunq,hi ohuohuyyhfxpophpejhzugojqhox
tuljhfyjushejshmxpnonxgk

“Nhfuggxohijhcx shznajhzenyjhNkkkk”hpejhijbugk

Ejhyu bejqhuhfxyqhugqhtuynbgugohyu bek

“Oejhtuggjshxahynajhcx heurjhfexpjghnphsjayjfojq,hNhp mmxpj,hnghcx s
nqjupkhNheurjhoxxht fehsjpmjfohxshfxgojtmo,hxshixoehkkkhNhsjpmjfohcx s
mupohugqhqjpmnpjhcx shmsjpjgohkkkhoeuohNhzuphaushasxthoej
ngojsmsjouonxghcx hm ohxghtchzxsqpk”

Ugguhpnbejqhugqhixzjqhejshejuqk

“Oex behngqjjqhNhaunyhoxhfxtmsjejgqhexz,hznoehoejhngqjmjgqjgfjhcx 
pexz,”hejhzjgohxg,hbjoongbhexo,h“—uggx gfngbhcx shnganqjynochoxhcx s
e piugqhugqhpjjngbhgxoengbhsjmsjejgpniyjhnghno,hummusjgoyc—cx hfughpjj
ugcoengbhsjmsjejgpniyjhnghmjsaxstngbhuhznaj’phq onjphnghsjyuonxghox
cx she piugqk”

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!hZeuohnphnohcx hzugohxahtj?”

“Nhzugohcx hgxohoxhtjjohoeuohtughejsj,hugqhoxhfxgq fohcx spjyahpxhoeuo
gjnoejshoejhzxsyqhgxshoejhpjsrugophfughsjmsxufehcx hkkkhgxohoxhpjjhentk
Oeuo’phgxoht fe,hNhoenglkhUgqhnghsjo sghcx hznyyhjg.xchuyyhoej
msnrnyjbjphxahuhaunoea yhznajhznoex oha yanyyngbhejshq onjpkhOeuo’phuyy
Nheurjhoxhpuchoxhcx khGxzhno’phontjhaxshtjhoxhbxkhN’thgxohqngngbhuo
extjk”hEjhbxoh mhugqhtxrjqhoxzusqphoejhqxxsk

Ugguhbxoh mhoxxkhIxzngbhnghpnyjgfj,hejhyjohejshmupphijaxsjhentk


Feumojsh24

OejhgnbeohpmjgohichYjrnghxghoejheucfxflhqnqhgxohmupphznoex ohsjp yohaxs
entkhOejhzuchnghzenfehejheuqhijjghtugubngbhenphyugqhsjrxyojqhenthugq
euqhyxpohuyyhuoosufonxghaxshentkhNghpmnojhxahoejhtubgnanfjgoheusrjpo,
gjrjsheuqhoejsjhijjg,hxs,huohyjupo,hgjrjshnohpjjtjqhoxhent,heuqhoejsj
ijjghpxhtugchengqsugfjphugqhpxhtugchw ussjyphijozjjghenthugqhoej
mjupugophuphoeuohcjus,hugqhoejhxsnbnghxahoejpjhauny sjphugqhoenp
exponynochzuphgxzhmjsajfoychfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhentkhOejhqjynbeohejheuq
jvmjsnjgfjqhnghoejhzxslhnopjya,hugqhoejhfxgpjw jgohbsjuojshngontufc
znoehoejhmjupugop,hoejhjgrchejhajyohxahoejt,hxahoejnshynaj,hoejhqjpnsj
oxhuqxmohoeuohynaj,hzenfeheuqhijjghoxhenthoeuohgnbeohgxohuhqsjuthi ohug
ngojgonxg,hoejhjvjf onxghxahzenfehejheuqhoex beohx ohnghqjouny—uyyhoenp
euqhpxhosugpaxstjqhenphrnjzhxahoejhaustngbhxahoejhyugqhuphejheuq
tugubjqhno,hoeuohejhfx yqhgxohouljhenphaxstjshngojsjpohnghno,hugqhfx yq
gxohejymhpjjngbhoeuoh gmyjupugohsjyuonxghijozjjghenthugqhoejhzxslmjxmyj
zenfehzuphoejhax gquonxghxahnohuyykhOejhejsqhxahntmsxrjqhfxzphp fehup
Muru,hoejhzexyjhyugqhmyx bejqhxrjshugqhjgsnfejq,hoejhgngjhyjrjyhanjyqp
p ssx gqjqhznoehejqbjp,hoejhozxhe gqsjqhugqhaxsochufsjphejurnyc
tug sjq,hoejhpjjqhpxzghnghqsnyyp,hugqhuyyhoejhsjpohxahno—nohzuphuyy
pmyjgqnqhnahxgychoejhzxslheuqhijjghqxgjhaxshoejtpjyrjp,hxshaxs
oejtpjyrjphugqhfxtsuqjp—mjxmyjhnghpctmuoechznoehoejtkhI ohejhpuz
fyjusychgxzh(enphzxslhxghuhixxlhxahubsnf yo sj,hnghzenfehoejhfenja
jyjtjgohnghe piugqschzuphoxheurjhijjghoejhyuixsjs,hbsjuoychuppnpojqhent
nghoenp)hoeuohoejhpxsohxahaustngbhejhzuphfusscngbhxghzuphgxoengbhi ohu
fs jyhugqhpo iixsghpos bbyjhijozjjghenthugqhoejhyuixsjsp,hnghzenfe
oejsjhzuphxghxgjhpnqj—enphpnqj—uhfxgong uyhngojgpjhjaaxsohoxhfeugbj
jrjscoengbhoxhuhmuoojsghejhfxgpnqjsjqhijoojs;hxghoejhxoejshpnqj,hoej
guo suyhxsqjshxahoengbpkhUgqhnghoenphpos bbyjhejhpuzhoeuohznoehnttjgpj
jvmjgqno sjhxahaxsfjhxghenphpnqj,hugqhznoehgxhjaaxsohxshjrjghngojgonxg
xghoejhxoejshpnqj,huyyhoeuohzuphuooungjqhzuphoeuohoejhzxslhqnqhgxohbx
oxhoejhynlngbhxahjnoejshpnqj,hugqhoeuohpmyjgqnqhoxxyp,hpmyjgqnqhfuooyj
ugqhyugqhzjsjhpmxnyjqhznoehgxhbxxqhoxhugcxgjkhZxspohxahuyy,hoejhjgjsbc
jvmjgqjqhxghoenphzxslhzuphgxohpntmychzupojqkhEjhfx yqhgxohejymhajjyngb
gxz,hpngfjhoejhtjugngbhxahoenphpcpojtheuqhijfxtjhfyjushoxhent,hoeuohoej
unthxahenphjgjsbchzuphuhtxpoh gzxsoechxgjkhNghsjuynoc,hzeuohzuphoej
pos bbyjhuix o?hEjhzuphpos bbyngbhaxshjrjschausoengbhxahenphpeusjh(ugq
ejhfx yqhgxohejymhno,haxshejheuqhxgychoxhsjyuvhenphjaaxsop,hugqhej
zx yqhgxoheurjheuqhoejhtxgjchoxhmuchenphyuixsjsp’hzubjp),hzenyjhoejc
zjsjhxgychpos bbyngbhoxhijhuiyjhoxhqxhoejnshzxslhjupnychugqhubsjjuiyc,
oeuohnphoxhpuc,huphoejchzjsjh pjqhoxhqxngbhnokhNohzuphaxshenphngojsjpop
oeuohjrjschyuixsjshpex yqhzxslhupheusqhuphmxppniyj,hugqhoeuohzenyj
qxngbhpxhejhpex yqhljjmhenphznophuix ohent,hpxhuphoxhoschgxohoxhisjul
oejhznggxzngbhtufengjp,hoejhexspjhsuljp,hoejhoesupengbhtufengjp,hoeuo
ejhpex yqhuoojgqhoxhzeuohejhzuphqxngbkhZeuohoejhyuixsjshzugojqhzuphox
zxslhuphmyjupugoychuphmxppniyj,hznoehsjpop,hugqhuixrjhuyy,hfusjyjppyc
ugqhejjqyjppyc,hznoex ohoenglngbkhOeuohp ttjshYjrnghpuzhoenphuohjrjsc
pojmkhEjhpjgohoejhtjghoxhtxzhpxtjhfyxrjshaxsheuc,hmnflngbhx ohoejhzxspo
muofejphzejsjhoejhfyxrjshzuphxrjsbsxzghznoehbsupphugqhzjjqphugqhxahgx
 pjhaxshpjjq;hubunghugqhubunghoejchtxzjqhoejhijpohufsjphxahfyxrjs,
. ponacngbhoejtpjyrjphichoejhmsjojgpjhoeuohoejhiunynaaheuqhoxyqhoejt
ox,hugqhoscngbhoxhmufnachenthznoehoejhupp sugfjhoeuohnohzx yqhij
pmyjgqnqheuc;hi ohejhlgjzhoeuohnohzuphxzngbhoxhoexpjhufsjphijngbhpx
t fehjupnjshoxhtxzkhEjhpjgohx ohuheuchtufengjhaxshmnofengbhoejheuc—no
zuphisxljghuohoejhanspohsxzhijfu pjhnohzuphq yyhzxslhaxshuhmjupugohox
pnohxghoejhpjuohnghasxgohznoehoejhbsjuohzngbphzurngbhuixrjhentkhUgqhej
zuphoxyq,h“Qxg’ohosx iyj,hcx shexgxs,hp sj,hoejhzxtjgaxylphznyyhmnofe
nohw nflhjgx bek”hOejhmyx bephzjsjhmsufonfuyych pjyjpp,hijfu pjhno
gjrjshxff ssjqhoxhoejhyuixsjshoxhsunpjhoejhpeusjhzejghejho sgjqhoej
myx be,hugqhaxsfngbhnohsx gq,hejhposungjqhoejhexspjphugqhoxsjh mhoej
bsx gq,hugqhYjrnghzuphijbbjqhgxohoxhtngqhuix ohnokhOejhexspjphzjsj
uyyxzjqhoxhposuchngoxhoejhzejuohijfu pjhgxohuhpngbyjhyuixsjshzx yq
fxgpjgohoxhijhgnbeo-zuofetug,hugqhnghpmnojhxahxsqjsphoxhoejhfxgosusc,
oejhyuixsjsphngpnpojqhxghoulngbho sgphaxshgnbeohq oc,hugqhNrug,huaojs
zxslngbhuyyhquchyxgb,hajyyhupyjjm,hugqhzuphrjschmjgnojgohaxshenphau yo,
pucngb,h“Qxhzeuohcx hznyyhoxhtj,hcx shexgxsk”

Oejchlnyyjqhoesjjhxahoejhijpohfuyrjphichyjoongbhoejthngoxhoejhfyxrjs
uaojstuoehznoex ohfusjhuphoxhoejnshqsnglngb,hugqhgxoengbhzx yqhtuljhoej
tjghijynjrjhoeuohoejcheuqhijjghiyxzghx ohichoejhfyxrjs,hi ohoejchoxyq
ent,hichzuchxahfxgpxyuonxg,hoeuohxgjhxahenphgjnbeixspheuqhyxpohu
e gqsjqhugqhozjyrjhejuqhxahfuooyjhnghoesjjhqucpkhUyyhoenpheummjgjq,hgxo
ijfu pjhugcxgjhajyohnyy-znyyhoxhYjrnghxshenphaust;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hej
lgjzhoeuohoejchynljqhent,hoex beohenthuhpntmyjhbjgoyjtugh(oejnshenbejpo
msunpj);hi ohnoheummjgjqhpntmychijfu pjhuyyhoejchzugojqhzuphoxhzxsl
tjssnychugqhfusjyjppyc,hugqhenphngojsjpophzjsjhgxohxgychsjtxojhugq
ngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhoejt,hi ohauouyychxmmxpjqhoxhoejnshtxpoh. po
fyuntpkhYxgbhijaxsj,hYjrngheuqhajyohqnppuonpaufonxghznoehenphxzg
mxpnonxghnghsjbusqhoxhoejhyugqkhEjhpuzhzejsjhenphixuohyjuljq,hi ohej
qnqhgxohyxxlhaxshoejhyjul,hmjseumphm smxpjychqjfjnrngbhentpjyak
(Gxoengbhzx yqhijhyjaohenthnahejhyxpohaunoehnghnok)hI ohgxzhejhfx yq
qjfjnrjhentpjyahgxhyxgbjskhOejhaustngbhxahoejhyugq,huphejhzuphtugubngb
no,heuqhijfxtjhgxohtjsjych guoosufonrjhi ohsjrxyongbhoxhent,hugqhej
fx yqhouljhgxha soejshngojsjpohnghnok

Oxhoenphgxzhzuph.xngjqhoejhmsjpjgfj,hxgychozjgoc-anrjhtnyjphxaa,hxa
LnoochPeofejsiuoplucu,hzexthejhyxgbjqhoxhpjjhugqhfx yqhgxohpjjkhQuscu
UyjvugqsxrguhXiyxgplucuheuqhngrnojqhent,hzejghejhzuphxrjshoejsj,hox
fxtj;hoxhfxtjhznoehoejhxi.jfohxahsjgjzngbhenphxaajshoxhejshpnpojs,hzex
zx yq,hpxhpejhburjhenthoxh gqjspougq,huffjmohenthgxzkhYjrnghentpjyaheuq
ajyohxghpjjngbhLnoochPeofejsiuoplucuhoeuohejheuqhgjrjshfjupjqhoxhyxrj
ejs;hi ohejhfx yqhgxohbxhxrjshoxhoejhXiyxgplcp’,hlgxzngbhpejhzuphoejsjk
Oejhaufohoeuohejheuqhtuqjhejshughxaajs,hugqhpejheuqhsja pjqhent,heuq
myufjqhughngp mjsuiyjhiussnjshijozjjghejshugqhentkh“Nhfug’ohuplhejshox
ijhtchznajhtjsjychijfu pjhpejhfug’ohijhoejhznajhxahoejhtughpejhzugojq
oxhtussc,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakhOejhoex beohxahoenphtuqjhenthfxyqhugq
exponyjhoxhejskh“Nhpex yqhgxohijhuiyjhoxhpmjulhoxhejshznoex ohuhajjyngb
xahsjmsxufe;hNhfx yqhgxohyxxlhuohejshznoex ohsjpjgotjgo;hugqhpejhznyy
xgycheuojhtjhuyyhoejhtxsj,huphpej’phix gqhoxkhUgqhijpnqjp,hexzhfughN
gxz,huaojshzeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxyqhtj,hbxhoxhpjjhoejt?hFughNhejym
pexzngbhoeuohNhlgxzhzeuohpejhoxyqhtj?hUgqhtjhoxhbxhtubgugntx pychox
axsbnrjhejs,hugqheurjhmnochxghejs!hTjhbxhoesx behuhmjsaxstugfjhijaxsj
ejshxahaxsbnrngb,hugqhqjnbgngbhoxhijpoxzhtchyxrjhxghejs!kkkhZeuo
ngq fjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxhojyyhtjhoeuo?hIchfeugfjhNhtnbeoheurjhpjjg
ejs,hoejghjrjscoengbhzx yqheurjheummjgjqhxahnopjya;hi o,huphnohnp,hno’p
x ohxahoejhw jponxg,hx ohxahoejhw jponxg!”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpjgohenthuhyjoojs,huplngbhenthaxshuhpnqj-puqqyjhaxs
Lnooc’ph pjkh“N’thoxyqhcx heurjhuhpnqj-puqqyj,”hpejhzsxojhoxhent;h“N
exmjhcx hznyyhisngbhnohxrjshcx spjyak”

Oenphzuphtxsjhoeughejhfx yqhpougqkhExzhfx yqhuhzxtughxahugc
ngojyynbjgfj,hxahugchqjynfufc,hm ohejshpnpojshnghp fehuhe tnynuongb
mxpnonxg!hEjhzsxojhojghgxojp,hugqhoxsjhoejthuyyh m,hugqhpjgohoejhpuqqyj
znoex ohugchsjmyckhOxhzsnojhoeuohejhzx yqhbxhzuphntmxppniyj,hijfu pjhej
fx yqhgxohbx;hoxhzsnojhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohfxtjhijfu pjhpxtjoengb
msjrjgojqhent,hxshoeuohejhzx yqhijhuzuc,hoeuohzuphponyyhzxspjkhEjhpjgo
oejhpuqqyjhznoex ohughugpzjs,hugqhznoehuhpjgpjhxaheurngbhqxgjhpxtjoengb
peutja y;hejheugqjqhxrjshuyyhoejhgxzhsjrxyongbhi pngjpphxahoejhjpouoj
oxhoejhiunynaa,hugqhpjohxaahgjvohquchoxhuhsjtxojhqnposnfohoxhpjjhenp
asnjgqhPrnudeplc,hzexheuqhpmyjgqnqhtuspejphaxshbsx pjhnghenp
gjnbeixsexxq,hugqheuqhyuojychzsnoojghoxhuplhenthoxhljjmhuhyxgb-pougqngb
msxtnpjhoxhpouchznoehentkhOejhbsx pj-tuspe,hnghoejhP sxrplchqnposnfo,
euqhyxgbhojtmojqhYjrng,hi ohejheuqhfxgong uyychm ohxaahoenphrnpnohxg
uffx gohxahenphzxslhxghoejhjpouojkhGxzhejhzuphbyuqhoxhbjohuzuchasxthoej
gjnbeixsexxqhxahoejhPeofejsiuoplcp,hugqhponyyhtxsjhasxthenphausthzxsl,
jpmjfnuyychxghuhpexxongbhjvmjqnonxg,hzenfehuyzucphnghosx iyjhpjsrjqhup
oejhijpohfxgpxyuonxgk


Feumojsh25

NghoejhP sxrplchqnposnfohoejsjhzuphgxhsunyzuchgxshpjsrnfjhxahmxpo
exspjp,hugqhYjrnghqsxrjhoejsjhznoehenphxzghexspjphnghenphinb,
xyq-aupenxgjqhfussnubjk

Ejhpoxmmjqheuyazuchuohuhzjyy-ox-qxhmjupugo’phoxhajjqhenphexspjpkhU
iuyq,hzjyy-msjpjsrjqhxyqhtug,hznoehuhisxuq,hsjqhijusq,hbsuchxghenp
fejjlp,hxmjgjqhoejhbuoj,hpw jjdngbhubungpohoejhbuojmxpohoxhyjohoej
oesjjhexspjphmuppkhQnsjfongbhoejhfxufetughoxhuhmyufjh gqjshoejhpejqhng
oejhinb,hfyjug,honqchcusq,hznoehfeussjq,hxyq-aupenxgjqhmyx bephnghno,
oejhxyqhtughupljqhYjrnghoxhfxtjhngoxhoejhmusyxskhUhfyjugychqsjppjq
cx gbhzxtug,hznoehfyxbphxghejshiusjhajjo,hzuphpfs iingbhoejhayxxshng
oejhgjzhx ojshsxxtkhPejhzuphasnbeojgjqhxahoejhqxb,hoeuohsughnghuaojs
Yjrng,hugqh oojsjqhuhpesnjl,hi ohijbughyu bengbhuohejshxzghasnbeohuo
xgfjhzejghpejhzuphoxyqhoejhqxbhzx yqhgxohe sohejskhMxngongbhYjrnghznoe
ejshiusjhusthoxhoejhqxxshngoxhoejhmusyxs,hpejhijgohqxzghubung,henqngb
ejsheugqpxtjhaufj,hugqhzjgohxghpfs iingbk

“Zx yqhcx hynljhoejhputxrus?”hpejhupljqk

“Cjp,hmyjupjk”

Oejhmusyxshzuphuhinbhsxxt,hznoehuhQ ofehpoxrj,hugqhuhpfsjjghqnrnqngbhno
ngoxhozxkh gqjshoejhexychmnfo sjphpoxxqhuhouiyjhmungojqhnghmuoojsgp,hu
ijgfe,hugqhozxhfeunspkhGjushoejhjgosugfjhzuphuhqsjppjsha yyhxa
fsxfljsckhOejhpe oojsphzjsjhfyxpjq,hoejsjhzjsjhajzhaynjp,hugqhnohzuphpx
fyjughoeuohYjrnghzuphugvnx phoeuohYuplu,hzexheuqhijjghs ggngbhuyxgbhoej
sxuqhugqhiuoengbhnghm qqyjp,hpex yqhgxoht qqchoejhayxxs,hugqhxsqjsjq
ejshoxhuhmyufjhnghoejhfxsgjshichoejhqxxskhUaojshyxxlngbhsx gqhoej
musyxs,hYjrnghzjgohx ohnghoejhiuflhcusqkhOejhbxxq-yxxlngbhcx gbhzxtug
nghfyxbp,hpzngbngbhoejhjtmochmunyphxghoejhcxlj,hsughxghijaxsjhenthox
oejhzjyyhaxshzuojsk

“Yxxlhpeusm,htchbnsy!”hoejhxyqhtughpex ojqhuaojshejs,hbxxq-e txsjqyc,
ugqhejhzjgoh mhoxhYjrngkh“Zjyy,hpns,husjhcx hbxngbhoxhGnlxyuc
NrugxrnofehPrnudeplc?hEnphexgxshfxtjphoxh phoxx,”hejhijbug,hfeuoongb,
yjugngbhenphjyixzphxghoejhsunyngbhxahoejhpojmpkhNghoejhtnqqyjhxahoej
xyqhtug’phuffx gohxahenphufw ungougfjhznoehPrnudeplc,hoejhbuojphfsjuljq
ubung,hugqhyuixsjsphfutjhngoxhoejhcusqhasxthoejhanjyqp,hznoehzxxqjg
myx bephugqheussxzpkhOejhexspjpheusgjppjqhoxhoejhmyx bephugqheussxzp
zjsjhpyjjlhugqhauokhOejhyuixsjsphzjsjhxirnx pychxahoejhex pjexyq:hozx
zjsjhcx gbhtjghnghfxooxghpensophugqhfump,hoejhozxhxoejsphzjsjhensjq
yuixsjsphnghextjpm ghpensop,hxgjhughxyqhtug,hoejhxoejshuhcx gbhajyyxzk
Txrngbhxaahasxthoejhpojmp,hoejhxyqhtughzjgoh mhoxhoejhexspjphugqhijbug
 geusgjppngbhoejtk

“Zeuoheurjhoejchijjghmyx bengb?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Myx bengbh mhoejhmxouoxjpkhZjhsjgohuhinohxahyugqhoxxkhAjqxo,hqxg’ohyjo
x ohoejhbjyqngb,hi ohouljhnohoxhoejhosx be,hugqhzj’yyhm ohoejhxoejshng
eusgjppk”

“Xe,hauoejs,hoejhmyx bepeusjphNhxsqjsjq,heuphejhisx beohoejthuyxgb?”
upljqhoejhinb,hejuyoec-yxxlngbhajyyxz,hxirnx pychoejhxyqhtug’phpxgk

“Oejsjhkkkhnghoejhx ojshsxxt,”hugpzjsjqhoejhxyqhtug,hi gqyngbhoxbjoejs
oejheusgjpphejheuqhouljghxaa,hugqhayngbngbhnohxghoejhbsx gqkh“Cx hfug
m ohoejthxg,hzenyjhoejcheurjhqnggjsk”

Oejhbxxq-yxxlngbhcx gbhzxtughfutjhngoxhoejhx ojshsxxthznoehoejha yy
munyphqsubbngbhuohejshpex yqjspkhTxsjhzxtjghfutjhxghoejhpfjgjhasxt
pxtjzejsj,hcx gbhugqheugqpxtj,htnqqyj-ubjq,hxyqhugqh byc,hznoehfenyqsjg
ugqhznoex ohfenyqsjgk

Oejhputxrushzuphijbnggngbhoxhpngb;hoejhyuixsjsphugqhoejhautnyc,heurngb
qnpmxpjqhxahoejhexspjp,hfutjhnghoxhqnggjskhYjrng,hbjoongbhenp
msxrnpnxgphx ohxahenphfussnubj,hngrnojqhoejhxyqhtughoxhouljhojuhznoe
entk

“Zjyy,hNheurjheuqhpxtjhoxquchuysjuqc,”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,hxirnx pyc
uffjmongbhoejhngrnouonxghznoehmyjup sjkh“I oh. pohuhbyupphaxshfxtmugck”

XrjshoejnshojuhYjrnghejusqhuyyhuix ohoejhxyqhtug’phaustngbkhOjghcjusp
ijaxsj,hoejhxyqhtugheuqhsjgojqhoesjjhe gqsjqhufsjphasxthoejhyuqchzex
xzgjqhoejt,hugqhuhcjushubxhejheuqhix beohoejthugqhsjgojqhugxoejshoesjj
e gqsjqhasxthuhgjnbeixsngbhyugqxzgjskhUhptuyyhmusohxahoejhyugq—oej
zxspohmuso—ejhyjohx ohaxshsjgo,hzenyjhuhe gqsjqhufsjphxahusuiyjhyugqhej
f yonruojqhentpjyahznoehenphautnychugqhozxhensjqhyuixsjspkhOejhxyqhtug
fxtmyungjqhoeuohoengbphzjsjhqxngbhiuqyckhI ohYjrnghpuzhoeuohejhpntmyc
qnqhpxhasxthuhajjyngbhxahmsxmsnjoc,hugqhoeuohenphausthzuphnghu
ayx snpengbhfxgqnonxgkhNahnoheuqhijjgh gp ffjppa yhejhzx yqhgxoheurj
ix beohyugqhuohoensoc-anrjhsx iyjphoejhufsj,hejhzx yqhgxoheurjhtussnjq
enphoesjjhpxgphugqhuhgjmejz,hejhzx yqhgxoheurjhsji nyohoznfjhuaojs
ansjp,hugqhjufehontjhxghuhyusbjshpfuyjkhNghpmnojhxahoejhxyqhtug’p
fxtmyungop,hnohzuphjrnqjgohoeuohejhzuphmsx q,hugqh. poychmsx q,hxahenp
msxpmjsnoc,hmsx qhxahenphpxgp,henphgjmejz,henphpxgp’hznrjp,henphexspjp
ugqhenphfxzp,hugqhjpmjfnuyychxahoejhaufohoeuohejhzuphljjmngbhuyyhoenp
austngbhbxngbkhAsxthenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhxyqhtug,hYjrnghoex beohej
zuphgxohurjspjhoxhgjzhtjoexqphjnoejskhEjheuqhmyugojqhuhbsjuohtugc
mxouoxjp,hugqhenphmxouoxjp,huphYjrngheuqhpjjghqsnrngbhmupo,hzjsj
uysjuqchmupohayxzjsngbhugqhijbnggngbhoxhqnjhqxzg,hzenyjhYjrng’phzjsj
xgych. pohfxtngbhngoxhayxzjskhEjhjusoejqh mhenphmxouoxjphznoehuhtxqjsg
myx behixssxzjqhasxthuhgjnbeixsngbhyugqxzgjskhEjhpxzjqhzejuokhOej
osnayngbhaufohoeuo,hoenggngbhx ohenphscj,hoejhxyqhtugh pjqhoejhscjhej
oenggjqhx ohaxshenphexspjp,hpmjfnuyychpos flhYjrngkhExzhtugchontjpheuq
Yjrnghpjjghoenphpmyjgqnqhaxqqjshzupojq,hugqhosnjqhoxhbjohnohpurjq;hi o
uyzucphnoheuqho sgjqhx ohoxhijhntmxppniyjkhOejhmjupugohbxohoenphqxgj,
ugqhejhfx yqhgxohpuchjgx behnghmsunpjhxahnohuphaxxqhaxshoejhijupopk

“Zeuoheurjhoejhzjgfejphoxhqx?hOejchfusschnohx ohnghi gqyjphoxhoej
sxuqpnqj,hugqhoejhfusohisngbphnohuzuck”

“Zjyy,hzjhyugqxzgjsphfug’ohtugubjhzjyyhznoehx shyuixsjsp,”hpunqhYjrng,
eugqngbhenthuhbyupphxahojuk

“Oeuglhcx ,”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,hugqhejhoxxlhoejhbyupp,hi ohsja pjq
p bus,hmxngongbhoxhuhy tmhejheuqhyjaokh“Oejc’sjhpntmyjhqjpos fonxg,”
punqhejkh“YxxlhuohPrnudeplc’p,haxshngpougfjkhZjhlgxzhzeuohoejhyugq’p
ynlj—anspo-suoj,hcjohoejsj’phgxoht fehxahuhfsxmhoxhixupohxakhNo’phgxo
yxxljqhuaojshjgx be—oeuo’phuyyhnohnp!”

“I ohcx hzxslhcx shyugqhznoehensjqhyuixsjsp?”

“Zj’sjhuyyhmjupugophoxbjoejskhZjhbxhngoxhjrjscoengbhx spjyrjpkhNahu
tug’phgxh pj,hejhfughbx,hugqhzjhfughtugubjhichx spjyrjpk”

“Auoejs,hAngxbjghzugophpxtjhous,”hpunqhoejhcx gbhzxtughnghoejhfyxbp,
fxtngbhngk

“Cjp,hcjp,hoeuo’phexzhnohnp,hpns!”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,hbjoongbh m,hugq
fsxppngbhentpjyahqjynijsuojyc,hejhoeugljqhYjrnghugqhzjgohx ok

ZejghYjrnghzjgohngoxhoejhlnofejghoxhfuyyhenphfxufetughejhpuzhoejhzexyj
autnychuohqnggjskhOejhzxtjghzjsjhpougqngbh mhzunongbhxghoejtkhOej
cx gb,hpo sqc-yxxlngbhpxghzuphojyyngbhpxtjoengbha ggchznoehenphtx oe
a yyhxahm qqngb,hugqhoejchzjsjhuyyhyu bengb,hoejhzxtughnghoejhfyxbp,
zexhzuphmx sngbhfuiiubjhpx mhngoxhuhixzy,hyu bengbhtxpohtjssnychxahuyyk

Rjschmsxiuiychoejhbxxq-yxxlngbhaufjhxahoejhcx gbhzxtughnghoejhfyxbpheuq
uhbxxqhqjuyhoxhqxhznoehoejhntmsjppnxghxahzjyy-ijngbhoenphmjupugo
ex pjexyqhtuqjh mxghYjrng,hi ohoejhntmsjppnxghzuphpxhposxgbhoeuohYjrng
fx yqhgjrjshbjohsnqhxahnokhUgqhuyyhoejhzuchasxthoejhxyqhmjupugo’phox
Prnudeplc’phejhljmohsjfuyyngbhoenphmjupugohausthuphoex behoejsjhzjsj
pxtjoengbhnghoenphntmsjppnxghoeuohqjtugqjqhenphpmjfnuyhuoojgonxgk


Feumojsh26

PrnudeplchzuphoejhtuspeuyhxahenphqnposnfokhEjhzuphanrjhcjusphxyqjshoeug
Yjrng,hugqheuqhyxgbhijjghtussnjqkhEnphpnpojs-ng-yuz,huhcx gbhbnsyhYjrng
ynljqhrjscht fe,hynrjqhnghenphex pj;hugqhYjrnghlgjzhoeuohPrnudeplchugq
enphznajhzx yqheurjhbsjuoychynljqhoxhtusschoejhbnsyhoxhentkhEjhlgjz
oenphznoehfjsoungoc,huphpx-fuyyjqhjynbniyjhcx gbhtjghuyzucphlgxzhno,
oex behejhfx yqhgjrjsheurjhisx beohentpjyahoxhpmjulhxahnohoxhugcxgj;
ugqhejhlgjzhoxxhoeuo,huyoex behejhzugojqhoxhbjohtussnjq,hugqhuyoex be
ichjrjschoxljghoenphrjschuoosufonrjhbnsyhzx yqhtuljhughjvfjyyjgohznaj,
ejhfx yqhgxhtxsjheurjhtussnjqhejs,hjrjghnahejheuqhgxohijjghnghyxrjhznoe
LnoochPeofejsiuoplucu,hoeughejhfx yqheurjhayxzgh mhoxhoejhplckhUgqhoenp
lgxzyjqbjhmxnpxgjqhoejhmyjup sjhejheuqhexmjqhoxhangqhnghoejhrnpnohox
Prnudeplck

XghbjoongbhPrnudeplc’phyjoojshznoehoejhngrnouonxghaxshpexxongb,hYjrng
euqhnttjqnuojychoex beohxahoenp;hi ohnghpmnojhxahnohejheuqhtuqjh mhenp
tngqhoeuohPrnudeplc’pheurngbhp fehrnjzphaxshenthzuphpntmychenphxzg
bsx gqyjpphp mmxpnonxg,hugqhpxhejhzx yqhbx,huyyhoejhputjkhIjpnqjp,huo
oejhixooxthxahenphejusohejheuqhuhqjpnsjhoxhoschentpjya,hm ohentpjyahox
oejhojpohnghsjbusqhoxhoenphbnsykhOejhPrnudeplcp’hextj-ynajhzup
jvfjjqngbychmyjupugo,hugqhPrnudeplchentpjya,hoejhijpohocmjhxahtug
oulngbhmusohnghyxfuyhuaaunsphoeuohYjrnghlgjz,hzuphrjschngojsjpongbhox
entk

Prnudeplchzuphxgjhxahoexpjhmjxmyj,huyzucphuhpx sfjhxahzxgqjshoxhYjrng,
zexpjhfxgrnfonxgp,hrjschyxbnfuyhoex behgjrjshxsnbnguy,hbxhxgjhzuchic
oejtpjyrjp,hzenyjhoejnshynaj,hjvfjjqngbychqjangnojhugqhansthnghnop
qnsjfonxg,hbxjphnophzuchw nojhumusohugqhuytxpohuyzucphnghqnsjfo
fxgosuqnfonxghoxhoejnshfxgrnfonxgpkhPrnudeplchzuphughjvosjtjychuqrugfjq
tugkhEjhqjpmnpjqhoejhgxinynoc,hugqhijynjrjqhoejhtupphxahoejhgxinynochox
ijhpjfsjoychnghaurxshxahpjsaqxt,hugqhxgychfxgfjuyngbhoejnshrnjzphasxt
fxzusqnfjkhEjhsjbusqjqhS ppnuhuphuhs ngjqhfx gosc,hsuoejshuaojshoej
pocyjhxahO sljc,hugqhoejhbxrjsgtjgohxahS ppnuhuphpxhiuqhoeuohejhgjrjs
mjstnoojqhentpjyahoxhfsnonfndjhnophqxngbphpjsnx pyc,hugqhcjohejhzuphu
a gfonxguschxahoeuohbxrjsgtjgohugqhuhtxqjyhtuspeuyhxahgxinynoc,hugq
zejghejhqsxrjhuix ohejhuyzucphzxsjhoejhfxfluqjhxahxaanfjhugqhoejhfum
znoehoejhsjqhiugqkhEjhfxgpnqjsjqhe tughynajhxgychoxyjsuiyjhuisxuq,hugq
zjgohuisxuqhoxhpouchuohjrjschxmmxso gnoc,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhej
fussnjqhxghuhfxtmyjvhugqhntmsxrjqhpcpojthxahubsnf yo sjhnghS ppnu,hugq
znoehjvosjtjhngojsjpohaxyyxzjqhjrjscoengbhugqhlgjzhjrjscoengbhoeuohzup
ijngbhqxgjhnghS ppnukhEjhfxgpnqjsjqhoejhS ppnughmjupugohuphxff mcngbhu
poubjhxahqjrjyxmtjgohngojstjqnuojhijozjjghoejhumjhugqhoejhtug,hugqhuo
oejhputjhontjhnghoejhyxfuyhuppjtiynjphgxhxgjhzuphsjuqnjshoxhpeuljheugqp
znoehoejhmjupugophugqhynpojghoxhoejnshxmngnxgkhEjhijynjrjqhgjnoejshng
Bxqhgxshoejhqjrny,hi ohzupht fehfxgfjsgjqhuix ohoejhw jponxghxahoej
ntmsxrjtjgohxahoejhfyjsbchugqhoejhtungojgugfjhxahoejnshsjrjg jp,hugq
oxxlhpmjfnuyhosx iyjhoxhljjmh mhoejhfe sfehnghenphrnyyubjk

Xghoejhzxtughw jponxghejhzuphxghoejhpnqjhxahoejhjvosjtjhuqrxfuojphxa
fxtmyjojhynijsochaxshzxtjg,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoejnshsnbeohoxhyuixskhI ohej
ynrjqhznoehenphznajhxghp fehojstphoeuohoejnshuaajfonxguojhfenyqyjpp
extjhynajhzuphoejhuqtnsuonxghxahjrjscxgj,hugqhussugbjqhenphznaj’phynaj
pxhoeuohpejhqnqhgxoengbhugqhfx yqhqxhgxoengbhi ohpeusjhejshe piugq’p
jaaxsophoeuohejshontjhpex yqhmupphupheummnychugqhuphubsjjuiychup
mxppniyjk

NahnoheuqhgxohijjghuhfeusufojsnponfhxahYjrng’phoxhm ohoejhtxpo
aurxsuiyjhngojsmsjouonxghxghmjxmyj,hPrnudeplc’phfeusufojshzx yqheurj
msjpjgojqhgxhqx iohxshqnaanf yochoxhent:hejhzx yqheurjhpunqhoxhentpjya,
“uhaxxyhxshuhlgurj,”hugqhjrjscoengbhzx yqheurjhpjjtjqhfyjuskhI ohej
fx yqhgxohpuch“uhaxxy,”hijfu pjhPrnudeplchzuph gtnpouluiychfyjrjs,hugq
txsjxrjs,huhenbeychf yonruojqhtug,hzexhzuphjvfjmonxguyychtxqjpohxrjs
enphf yo sjkhOejsjhzuphgxohuhp i.jfohejhlgjzhgxoengbhxakhI ohejhqnqhgxo
qnpmyuchenphlgxzyjqbjhjvfjmohzejghejhzuphfxtmjyyjqhoxhqxhpxkhPonyyhyjpp
fx yqhYjrnghpuchoeuohejhzuphuhlgurj,huphPrnudeplchzuph gtnpouluiychug
exgjpo,hbxxq-ejusojq,hpjgpniyjhtug,hzexhzxsljqhbxxq-e txsjqyc,hljjgyc,
ugqhmjspjrjsngbychuohenphzxsl;hejhzuphejyqhnghenbehexgxshichjrjscxgj
uix ohent,hugqhfjsoungychejheuqhgjrjshfxgpfnx pychqxgj,hugqhzuphngqjjq
ngfumuiyjhxahqxngb,hugcoengbhiupjk

Yjrnghosnjqhoxh gqjspougqhent,hugqhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhent,hugqhyxxljq
uohenthugqhenphynajhuphuohuhynrngbhjgnbtuk

Yjrnghugqhejhzjsjhrjschasnjgqyc,hugqhpxhYjrngh pjqhoxhrjgo sjhoxhpx gq
Prnudeplc,hoxhoschoxhbjohuohoejhrjschax gquonxghxahenphrnjzhxahynaj;
i ohnohzuphuyzucphnghrungkhJrjschontjhYjrnghosnjqhoxhmjgjosuojhijcxgq
oejhx ojshfeutijsphxahPrnudeplc’phtngq,hzenfehzjsjhexpmnouiychxmjghox
uyy,hejhgxonfjqhoeuohPrnudeplchzuphpynbeoychqnpfxgfjsojq;haungohpnbgp
xahuyusthzjsjhrnpniyjhnghenphjcjp,huphoex behejhzjsjhuasunqhYjrnghzx yq
 gqjspougqhent,hugqhejhzx yqhbnrjhenthuhlngqyc,hbxxq-e txsjqhsjm ypjk

. pohgxz,hpngfjhenphqnpjgfeugotjgohznoehaustngb,hYjrnghzuphmusonf yusyc
byuqhoxhpouchznoehPrnudeplckhUmusohasxthoejhaufohoeuohoejhpnbeohxahoenp
eummchugqhuaajfonxguojhfx myj,hpxhmyjupjqhznoehoejtpjyrjphugqhjrjscxgj
jypj,hugqhoejnshzjyy-xsqjsjqhextjheuqhuyzucphuhfejjsngbhjaajfohxg
Yjrng,hejhajyohuhyxgbngb,hgxzhoeuohejhzuphpxhqnppuonpanjqhznoehenphxzg
ynaj,hoxhbjohuohoeuohpjfsjohnghPrnudeplchoeuohburjhenthp fehfyjusgjpp,
qjangnojgjpp,hugqhbxxqhfx subjhnghynajkhTxsjxrjs,hYjrnghlgjzhoeuohuo
Prnudeplc’phejhpex yqhtjjohoejhyugqxzgjsphxahoejhgjnbeixsexxq,hugqhno
zuphmusonf yusychngojsjpongbhaxshenth. pohgxzhoxhejushugqhouljhmusohng
oexpjhs suyhfxgrjspuonxgphfxgfjsgngbhfsxmp,hyuixsjsp’hzubjp,hugqhpxhxg,
zenfe,hejhzuphuzusj,husjhfxgrjgonxguyychsjbusqjqhuphpxtjoengbhrjschyxz,
i ohzenfehpjjtjqhoxhenth. pohgxzhoxhfxgpono ojhoejhxgjhp i.jfohxa
ntmxsougfjkh“Nohzuphgxo,hmjseump,hxahntmxsougfjhnghoejhqucphxahpjsaqxt,
ugqhnohtuchgxohijhxahntmxsougfjhnghJgbyugqkhNghixoehfupjphoej
fxgqnonxgphxahubsnf yo sjhusjhanstychjpouiynpejq;hi ohutxgbh phgxz,
zejghjrjscoengbheuphijjgho sgjqh mpnqjhqxzghugqhnphxgych. pohoulngb
peumj,hoejhw jponxghzeuohaxsthoejpjhfxgqnonxgphznyyhouljhnphoejhxgj
w jponxghxahntmxsougfjhnghS ppnu,”hoex beohYjrngk

Oejhpexxongbho sgjqhx ohoxhijhzxspjhoeughYjrngheuqhjvmjfojqkhOejhtuspe
zuphqschugqhoejsjhzjsjhgxhbsx pjhuohuyykhEjhzuyljqhuix ohoejhzexyjhquc
ugqhxgychisx beohiuflhoesjjhinsqp,hi ohoxhtuljh mhaxshoeuo—ejhisx beo
iufl,huphejhuyzucphqnqhasxthpexxongb,hughjvfjyyjgohummjonoj,hjvfjyyjgo
pmnsnop,hugqhoeuohljjg,hngojyyjfo uyhtxxqhzenfehznoehenthuyzucp
uffxtmugnjqhrnxyjgohmecpnfuyhjvjsonxgkhUgqhzenyjhx ohpexxongb,hzejghej
pjjtjqhoxhijhoenglngbhxahgxoengbhuohuyy,hp qqjgychoejhxyqhtughugqhenp
autnychljmohfxtngbhiuflhoxhenphtngq,hugqhoejhntmsjppnxghxahoejthpjjtjq
oxhfyunthgxohtjsjychenphuoojgonxg,hi ohoejhpxy onxghxahpxtjhw jponxg
fxggjfojqhznoehoejtk

Nghoejhjrjgngbhuohoju,hozxhyugqxzgjsphzexheuqhfxtjhuix ohpxtjhi pngjpp
fxggjfojqhznoehuhzusqpenmhzjsjhxahoejhmusoc,hugqhoejhngojsjpongb
fxgrjspuonxghYjrngheuqhijjghyxxlngbhaxszusqhoxhpmsugbh mk

Yjrnghzuphpnoongbhijpnqjhenphexpojpphuohoejhojuhouiyj,hugqhzuphxiynbjq
oxhljjmh mhuhfxgrjspuonxghznoehejshugqhejshpnpojs,hzexhzuphpnoongb
xmmxpnojhentkhTuqutjhPrnudeplucuhzuphuhsx gq-aufjq,hauns-eunsjq,hsuoejs
pexsohzxtug,huyyhptnyjphugqhqntmyjpkhYjrnghosnjqhoesx behejshoxhbjohu
pxy onxghxahoejhzjnbeochjgnbtuhejshe piugqhmsjpjgojqhoxhenphtngq;hi o
ejheuqhgxohfxtmyjojhasjjqxthxahnqjup,hijfu pjhejhzuphnghughubxgchxa
jtiussupptjgokhOenphubxgchxahjtiussupptjgohzuphq jhoxhoejhaufohoeuohoej
pnpojs-ng-yuzhzuphpnoongbhxmmxpnojhoxhent,hnghuhqsjpp,hpmjfnuyychm o
xg,huphejhaugfnjq,haxshenphijgjano,hf ohmusonf yusychxmjg,hnghoejhpeumj
xahuhosumjdj,hxghejshzenojhixpxtkhOenphw uqsugb yushxmjgngb,hnghpmnoj
xahoejhixpxt’phijngbhrjschzenoj,hxsh. pohijfu pjhnohzuphrjschzenoj,
qjmsnrjqhYjrnghxahoejha yyh pjhxahenphauf yonjpkhEjhntubngjq,hmsxiuiyc
tnpouljgyc,hoeuohoenphyxz-gjfljqhixqnfjheuqhijjghtuqjhxghenphuffx go,
ugqhajyohoeuohejheuqhgxhsnbeohoxhyxxlhuohno,hugqhosnjqhgxohoxhyxxlhuo
no;hi ohejhajyohoeuohejhzuphoxhiyutjhaxshoejhrjschaufohxahoej
yxz-gjfljqhixqnfjheurngbhijjghtuqjkhNohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohejheuq
qjfjnrjqhpxtjxgj,hoeuohejhx beohoxhjvmyunghpxtjoengb,hi ohoeuohox
jvmyunghnohzuphntmxppniyj,hugqhaxshoeuohsjupxghejhzuphfxgong uyyc
iy pengb,hzuphnyyhuohjupjhugqhuzlzusqkhEnphuzlzusqgjpphngajfojqhoej
msjoochpnpojs-ng-yuzhoxxkhI ohoejnshexpojpphummjusjqhgxohoxhxipjsrj
oenp,hugqhljmohm smxpjychqsuzngbhejshngoxhoejhfxgrjspuonxgk

“Cx hpuc,”hpejhpunq,hm sp ngbhoejhp i.jfohoeuoheuqhijjghpousojq,h“oeuo
tche piugqhfuggxohijhngojsjpojqhnghzeuo’phS ppnugkhNo’phw nojhoej
fxgosusc;hejhnphuyzucphnghfejjsa yhpmnsnophuisxuq,hi ohgxohuphejhnp
ejsjkhEjsj,hejhajjyphnghenphmsxmjshmyufjkhEjheuphpxht fehoxhqx,hugqhej
euphoejhauf yochxahngojsjpongbhentpjyahnghjrjscoengbkhXe,hcx ’rjhgxo
ijjghoxhpjjhx shpfexxy,heurjhcx ?”

“N’rjhpjjghnokkkkhOejhynooyjhex pjhfxrjsjqhznoehnrc,hnpg’ohno?”

“Cjp;hoeuo’phGuponu’phzxsl,”hpejhpunq,hngqnfuongbhejshpnpojsk

“Cx hojufehnghnohcx spjya?”hupljqhYjrng,hoscngbhoxhyxxlhuixrjhoejhxmjg
gjfl,hi ohajjyngbhoeuohzejsjrjshejhyxxljqhnghoeuohqnsjfonxghejhpex yq
pjjhnok

“Cjp;hNh pjqhoxhojufehnghnohtcpjya,hugqhqxhojufehponyy,hi ohzjheurjhu
anspo-suojhpfexxytnposjpphgxzkhUgqhzj’rjhpousojqhbctguponfhjvjsfnpjpk”

“Gx,hoeuglhcx ,hNhzxg’oheurjhugchtxsjhoju,”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhfxgpfnx p
xahqxngbhuhs qjhoengb,hi ohngfumuiyjhxahfxgong ngbhoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hej
bxoh m,hiy pengbkh“Nhejushuhrjschngojsjpongbhfxgrjspuonxg,”hejhuqqjq,
ugqhzuyljqhoxhoejhxoejshjgqhxahoejhouiyj,hzejsjhPrnudeplchzuphpnoongb
znoehoejhozxhbjgoyjtjghxahoejhgjnbeixsexxqkhPrnudeplchzuphpnoongb
pnqjzucp,hznoehxgjhjyixzhxghoejhouiyj,hugqhuhf mhnghxgjheugq,hzenyj
znoehoejhxoejsheugqhejhbuoejsjqh mhenphijusq,hejyqhnohoxhenphgxpjhugq
yjohnohqsxmhubung,huphoex behejhzjsjhptjyyngbhnokhEnphisnyynugohiyufl
jcjphzjsjhyxxlngbhposunbeohuohoejhjvfnojqhfx goschbjgoyjtughznoehbsuc
zenpljsp,hugqhummusjgoychejhqjsnrjqhut pjtjgohasxthenphsjtuslpkhOej
bjgoyjtughzuphfxtmyungngbhxahoejhmjupugopkhNohzuphjrnqjgohoxhYjrnghoeuo
Prnudeplchlgjzhughugpzjshoxhoenphbjgoyjtug’phfxtmyungop,hzenfehzx yqhuo
xgfjhqjtxynpehenphzexyjhfxgojgonxg,hi ohoeuohnghenphmxpnonxghejhfx yq
gxohbnrjh oojsugfjhoxhoenphugpzjs,hugqhynpojgjq,hgxohznoex ohmyjup sj,
oxhoejhyugqxzgjs’phfxtnfhpmjjfejpk

Oejhbjgoyjtughznoehoejhbsuchzenpljsphzuphxirnx pychughngrjojsuoj
uqejsjgohxahpjsaqxthugqhuhqjrxojqhubsnf yo snpo,hzexheuqhynrjqhuyyhenp
ynajhnghoejhfx gosckhYjrnghpuzhmsxxaphxahoenphnghenphqsjpp,hnghoej
xyq-aupenxgjqhoesjuqiusjhfxuo,hxirnx pychgxohenphjrjscquchuoonsj,hng
enphpesjzq,hqjjm-pjohjcjp,hnghenphnqnxtuonf,hay jgohS ppnug,hnghoej
ntmjsnx phoxgjhoeuoheuqhijfxtjheuino uyhasxthyxgbh pj,hugqhnghoej
sjpxy ojhbjpo sjphxahenphyusbj,hsjq,hp gi sgoheugqp,hznoehughxyq
ijosxoeuyhsngbhxghoejhynooyjhangbjsk


Feumojsh27

“NahN’qhxgychoejhejusohoxhoesxzh mhzeuo’phijjghpjohbxngbhkkkhp fehuhyxo
xahosx iyjhzupojqhkkkhN’qho sghtchiuflhxghoejhzexyjhi pngjpp,hpjyyh m,
bxhxaahynljhGnlxyuchNrugxrnofehkkkhoxhejush_YuhIjyyjhEéyègj_,”hpunqhoej
yugqxzgjs,huhmyjupugohptnyjhynbeongbh mhenphpesjzqhxyqhaufjk

“I ohcx hpjjhcx hqxg’ohoesxzhnoh m,”hpunqhGnlxyuchNrugxrnofehPrnudeplc;
“pxhoejsjht pohijhpxtjoengbhbungjqk”

“OejhxgychbunghnphoeuohNhynrjhnghtchxzghex pj,hgjnoejshix beohgxs
ensjqkhIjpnqjp,hxgjhljjmphexmngbhoejhmjxmyjhznyyhyjusghpjgpjkhOex be,
ngpojuqhxahoeuo,hcx ’qhgjrjshijynjrjhno—oejhqs gljggjpp,hoej
nttxsuynoc!hOejchljjmhfexmmngbhugqhfeugbngbhoejnshinophxahyugqkhGxohu
pnbeohxahuhexspjhxshuhfxzkhOejhmjupugo’phqcngbhxahe gbjs,hi oh. pohbx
ugqhouljhenthxghuphuhyuixsjs,hej’yyhqxhenphijpohoxhqxhcx huhtnpfenja,
ugqhoejghisngbhcx h mhijaxsjhoejh. ponfjhxahoejhmjufjk”

“I ohoejghcx htuljhfxtmyungophoxhoejh. ponfjhoxx,”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“Nhyxqbjhfxtmyungop?hGxohaxshugcoengbhnghoejhzxsyq!hP fehuhouylngb,hugq
p fehuhox-qx,hoeuohxgjhzx yqheurjhfu pjhoxhsjbsjohnokhUohoejhzxslp,haxs
ngpougfj,hoejchmxfljojqhoejhuqrugfj-txgjchugqhtuqjhxaakhZeuohqnqhoej
. ponfjhqx?hZec,hufw noojqhoejtkhGxoengbhljjmphoejthnghxsqjshi ohoejns
xzghfxtt guyhfx sohugqhoejnshrnyyubjhjyqjskhEj’yyhayxbhoejthnghoejhbxxq
xyqhpocyj!hI ohaxshoeuohoejsj’qhijhgxoengbhaxshnohi ohoxhbnrjhnohuyyh m
ugqhs ghuzuck”

Xirnx pychoejhyugqxzgjshzuphfeuaangbhPrnudeplc,hzex,haushasxthsjpjgongb
no,hzuphummusjgoychut pjqhichnok

“I ohcx hpjjhzjhtugubjhx shyugqhznoex ohp fehjvosjtjhtjup sjp,”hpunq
ej,hptnyngb:h“YjrnghugqhNhugqhoenphbjgoyjtugk”

Ejhngqnfuojqhoejhxoejshyugqxzgjsk

“Cjp,hoejhoengb’phqxgjhuohTneunyhMjosxrnofe’p,hi ohuplhenthexzhno’p
qxgjkhQxhcx hfuyyhoeuohuhsuonxguyhpcpojt?”hpunqhoejhyugqxzgjs,
xirnx pychsuoejshmsx qhxahoejhzxsqh“suonxguyk”

“Tchpcpojt’phrjschpntmyj,”hpunqhTneunyhMjosxrnofe,h“oeuglhBxqkhUyyhtc
tugubjtjgohsjpophxghbjoongbhoejhtxgjchsjuqchaxshoejhu o tghouvjp,hugq
oejhmjupugophfxtjhoxhtj,h‘Auoejs,htupojs,hejymh p!’hZjyy,hoejhmjupugop
usjhuyyhxgj’phgjnbeixsp;hxgjhajjyphaxshoejtkhPxhxgjhuqrugfjphoejthu
oensq,hi ohxgjhpucp:h‘Sjtjtijs,hyuqp,hNheurjhejymjqhcx ,hugqhcx ht po
ejymhtjhzejghNhgjjqhno—zejoejshno’phoejhpxzngbhxahoejhxuop,hxshoej
eucf oongb,hxshoejheusrjpo’;hugqhzjyy,hxgjhubsjjp,hpxht fehaxshjufe
ouvmucjs—oex behoejsjhusjhqnpexgjpohxgjphutxgbhoejthoxx,hno’phos jk”

Yjrng,hzexheuqhyxgbhijjghautnynushznoehoejpjhmuosnusfeuyhtjoexqp,
jvfeugbjqhbyugfjphznoehPrnudeplchugqhngojss mojqhTneunyhMjosxrnofe,
o sgngbhubunghoxhoejhbjgoyjtughznoehoejhbsuchzenpljspk

“Oejghzeuohqxhcx hoengl?”hejhupljq;h“zeuohpcpojthnphxgjhoxhuqxmo
gxzuqucp?”

“Zec,htugubjhynljhTneunyhMjosxrnofe,hxshyjohoejhyugqhaxsheuyahoejhfsxm
xshaxshsjgohoxhoejhmjupugop;hoeuohxgjhfughqx—xgychoeuo’ph. pohexzhoej
bjgjsuyhmsxpmjsnochxahoejhfx goschnphijngbhs ngjqkhZejsjhoejhyugqhznoe
pjsa-yuixshugqhbxxqhtugubjtjgohburjhuhcnjyqhxahgngjhoxhxgj,hxghoej
euya-fsxmhpcpojthnohcnjyqphoesjjhoxhxgjkhS ppnuheuphijjghs ngjqhichoej
jtugfnmuonxg!”

PrnudeplchyxxljqhznoehptnyngbhjcjphuohYjrng,hugqhjrjghtuqjhuhaungo
bjpo sjhxahnsxgchoxhent;hi ohYjrnghqnqhgxohoenglhoejhyugqxzgjs’phzxsqp
uip sq,hejh gqjspoxxqhoejthijoojshoeughejhqnqhPrnudeplckhUhbsjuohqjuy
txsjhxahzeuohoejhbjgoyjtughznoehoejhbsuchzenpljsphpunqhoxhpexzhnghzeuo
zuchS ppnuhzuphs ngjqhichoejhjtugfnmuonxghpos flhenthngqjjqhuphrjsc
os j,hgjzhoxhent,hugqhw nojhngfxgojpouiyjkhOejhyugqxzgjsh gtnpouluiyc
pmxljhenphxzghngqnrnq uyhoex beo—uhoengbhoeuohrjschsusjycheummjgp—ugqhu
oex beohoxhzenfehejheuqhijjghisx beohgxohichuhqjpnsjhxahangqngbhpxtj
jvjsfnpjhaxshughnqyjhisung,hi ohuhoex beohzenfeheuqhbsxzgh mhx ohxahoej
fxgqnonxgphxahenphynaj,hzenfehejheuqhisxxqjqhxrjshnghoejhpxyno qjhxa
enphrnyyubj,hugqheuqhfxgpnqjsjqhnghjrjschupmjfok

“Oejhmxngohnp,hqxg’ohcx hpjj,hoeuohmsxbsjpphxahjrjschpxsohnphxgychtuqj
ichoejh pjhxahu oexsnoc,”hejhpunq,hjrnqjgoychznpengbhoxhpexzhejhzuphgxo
znoex ohf yo sjkh“OuljhoejhsjaxstphxahMjojs,hxahFuoejsngj,hxa
UyjvugqjskhOuljhJ sxmjughenpoxsckhUgqhmsxbsjpphnghubsnf yo sjhtxsjhoeug
ugcoengbhjypj—oejhmxouox,haxshngpougfj,hoeuohzuphngosxq fjqhutxgbh phic
axsfjkhOejhzxxqjghmyx behoxxhzupg’ohuyzucph pjqkhNohzuphngosxq fjq
tucijhnghoejhqucphijaxsjhoejhJtmnsj,hi ohnohzuphmsxiuiychisx beohnghic
axsfjkhGxz,hnghx shxzghquc,hzjhyugqxzgjsphnghoejhpjsahontjph pjq
rusnx phntmsxrjtjgophnghx she piugqsc:hqscngbhtufengjphugqhoesupengb
tufengjp,hugqhfusongbhtug sjhugqhuyyhoejhtxqjsghntmyjtjgop—uyyhoeuohzj
isx beohngoxh pjhichx shu oexsnoc,hugqhoejhmjupugophxmmxpjqhnohuo
anspo,hugqhjgqjqhichntnouongbh pkhGxz,hichoejhuixynonxghxahpjsaqxthzj
eurjhijjghqjmsnrjqhxahx shu oexsnoc;hugqhpxhx she piugqsc,hzejsjhnoheuq
ijjghsunpjqhoxhuhenbehyjrjy,hnphix gqhoxhpnglhoxhoejhtxpohpurubj
msntnonrjhfxgqnonxgkhOeuo’phexzhNhpjjhnok”

“I ohzechpx?hNahno’phsuonxguy,hcx ’yyhijhuiyjhoxhljjmh mhoejhputj
pcpojthznoehensjqhyuixs,”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“Zj’rjhgxhmxzjshxrjshoejtkhZnoehzexthuthNhbxngbhoxhzxslhoejhpcpojt,
uyyxzhtjhoxhupl?”

“Oejsjhnohnp—oejhyuixshaxsfj—oejhfenjahjyjtjgohnghubsnf yo sj,”hoex beo
Yjrngk

“Znoehyuixsjspk”

“Oejhyuixsjsphzxg’ohzxslhzjyy,hugqhzxg’ohzxslhznoehbxxqhntmyjtjgopkhX s
yuixsjshfughqxhgxoengbhi ohbjohqs glhynljhuhmnb,hugqhzejghej’phqs glhej
s ngphjrjscoengbhcx hbnrjhentkhEjhtuljphoejhexspjphnyyhznoehoxxht fe
zuojs,hf ophbxxqheusgjpp,hiusojsphoejhonsjphxahoejhzejjyphaxshqsngl,
qsxmphinophxahnsxghngoxhoejhoesupengbhtufengj,hpxhuphoxhisjulhnokhEj
yxuoejphoejhpnbeohxahugcoengbhoeuo’phgxohuaojshenphaupenxgkhUgqhoeuo’p
exzhnohnphoejhzexyjhyjrjyhxahe piugqscheuphauyyjgkhYugqphbxgjhx ohxa
f yonruonxg,hxrjsbsxzghznoehzjjqp,hxshqnrnqjqhutxgbhoejhmjupugop,hugq
zejsjhtnyynxgphxahi pejyphzjsjhsunpjqhcx hbjohuhe gqsjqhoex pugq;hoej
zjuyoehxahoejhfx goscheuphqjfsjupjqkhNahoejhputjhoengbheuqhijjghqxgj,
i ohznoehfusjhoeuokkkk”

Ugqhejhmsxfjjqjqhoxh gaxyqhenphxzghpfejtjhxahjtugfnmuonxghichtjugphxa
zenfehoejpjhqsuziuflphtnbeoheurjhijjghurxnqjqk

OenphqnqhgxohngojsjpohYjrng,hi ohzejghejheuqhangnpejq,hYjrnghzjgohiufl
oxhenphanspohmxpnonxg,hugq,huqqsjppngbhPrnudeplc,hugqhoscngbhoxhqsuz
enthngoxhjvmsjppngbhenphpjsnx phxmngnxg:—

“Oeuohoejhpougqusqhxahf yo sjhnphauyyngb,hugqhoeuohznoehx shmsjpjgo
sjyuonxgphoxhoejhmjupugophoejsjhnphgxhmxppninynochxahaustngbhxghu
suonxguyhpcpojthoxhcnjyqhuhmsxano—oeuo’phmjsajfoychos j,”hpunqhejk

“Nhqxg’ohijynjrjhno,”hPrnudeplchsjmynjqhw nojhpjsnx pyc;h“uyyhNhpjjhnp
oeuohzjhqxg’ohlgxzhexzhoxhf yonruojhoejhyugq,hugqhoeuohx shpcpojthxa
ubsnf yo sjhnghoejhpjsahqucphzuphichgxhtjugphoxxhenbe,hi ohoxxhyxzkhZj
eurjhgxhtufengjp,hgxhbxxqhpoxfl,hgxhjaanfnjgohp mjsrnpnxg;hzjhqxg’o
jrjghlgxzhexzhoxhljjmhuffx gopkhUplhugchyugqxzgjs;hejhzxg’ohijhuiyjhox
ojyyhcx hzeuohfsxm’phmsxanouiyj,hugqhzeuo’phgxok”

“Nouynughixxlljjmngb,”hpunqhoejhbjgoyjtughxahoejhbsuchzenpljsp
nsxgnfuyyckh“Cx htuchljjmhcx shixxlphuphcx hynlj,hi ohnahoejchpmxny
jrjscoengbhaxshcx ,hoejsjhzxg’ohijhugchmsxanok”

“Zechqxhoejchpmxnyhoengbp?hUhmxxshoesupengbhtufengj,hxshcx shS ppnug
msjppjs,hoejchznyyhisjul,hi ohtchpojuthmsjpphoejchqxg’ohisjulkhU
zsjofejqhS ppnughgubhoejc’yyhs ng,hi ohljjmhbxxqhqsuc-exspjp—oejchzxg’o
s nghoejtkhUgqhpxhnohnphuyyhsx gqkhZjht pohsunpjhx shaustngbhoxhu
enbejshyjrjyk”

“Xe,hnahxgjhxgycheuqhoejhtjugphoxhqxhno,hGnlxyuchNrugxrnofe!hNo’phuyy
rjschzjyyhaxshcx ;hi ohaxshtj,hznoehuhpxghoxhljjmhuohoejh gnrjspnoc,
yuqphoxhijhjq fuojqhuohoejhenbehpfexxy—exzhuthNhbxngbhoxhi choejpj
qsuc-exspjp?”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phzeuohoejhyugqhiuglphusjhaxsk”

“Oxhbjohzeuo’phyjaohtjhpxyqhichu fonxg?hGx,hoeuglhcx k”

“Nhqxg’ohubsjjhoeuohno’phgjfjppuschxshmxppniyjhoxhsunpjhoejhyjrjyhxa
ubsnf yo sjhponyyhenbejs,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Nhqjrxojhtcpjyahoxhno,hugqhN
eurjhtjugp,hi ohNhfughqxhgxoengbkhUphoxhoejhiuglp,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhoxhzext
oejc’sjhugchbxxqkhAxshtchmuso,hugczuc,hzeuojrjshN’rjhpmjgohtxgjchxghng
oejhzuchxahe piugqsc,hnoheuphijjghuhyxpp:hpoxfl—uhyxpp,htufengjsc—u
yxppk”

“Oeuo’phos jhjgx be,”hoejhbjgoyjtughznoehoejhbsuchzenpljsphfentjqhng,
mxpnonrjychyu bengbhznoehpuonpaufonxgk

“UgqhN’thgxohoejhxgychxgj,”hm sp jqhYjrngkh“Nhtnvhznoehuyyhoej
gjnbeixsngbhyugqxzgjsp,hzexhusjhf yonruongbhoejnshyugqhxghuhsuonxguy
pcpojt;hoejchuyy,hznoehsusjhjvfjmonxgp,husjhqxngbhpxhuohuhyxppkhFxtj,
ojyyh phexzhqxjphcx shyugqhqx—qxjphnohmuc?”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhuohxgfjhng
Prnudeplc’phjcjphejhqjojfojqhoeuohayjjongbhjvmsjppnxghxahuyusthzenfehej
euqhgxonfjqhzejgjrjshejheuqhosnjqhoxhmjgjosuojhijcxgqhoejhx ojs
feutijsphxahPrnudeplc’phtngqk

Txsjxrjs,hoenphw jponxghxghYjrng’phmusohzuphgxohw nojhnghbxxqhaunoek
TuqutjhPrnudeplucuheuqh. pohoxyqhenthuohojuhoeuohoejcheuqhoeuohp ttjs
ngrnojqhuhBjstughjvmjsohnghixxlljjmngbhasxthTxpfxz,hzexhaxshu
fxgpnqjsuonxghxahanrjhe gqsjqhsx iyjpheuqhngrjponbuojqhoejhtugubjtjgo
xahoejnshmsxmjsoc,hugqhax gqhoeuohnohzuphfxpongbhoejthuhyxpphxahoesjj
oex pugqhxqqhsx iyjpkhPejhqnqhgxohsjtjtijshoejhmsjfnpjhp t,hi ohno
ummjusjqhoeuohoejhBjstugheuqhzxsljqhnohx ohoxhoejhasufonxghxahu
ausoengbk

Oejhbsuc-zenpljsjqhyugqxzgjshptnyjqhuohoejhtjgonxghxahoejhmsxanophxa
Prnudeplc’phautyngb,hxirnx pychuzusjhexzht fehbunghenphgjnbeixshugq
tuspeuyhzuphynljychoxhijhtulngbk

“Mxppniychnohqxjphgxohmuc,”hugpzjsjqhPrnudeplckh“Oeuohtjsjychmsxrjp
jnoejshoeuohN’thuhiuqhtugubjs,hxshoeuohN’rjhp glhtchfumnouyhaxshoej
ngfsjupjhxahtchsjgopk”

“Xe,hsjgo!”hYjrnghfsnjqhznoehexssxskh“SjgohoejsjhtuchijhnghJ sxmj,
zejsjhyugqheuphijjghntmsxrjqhichoejhyuixshm ohngoxhno,hi ohznoeh phuyy
oejhyugqhnphqjojsnxsuongbhasxthoejhyuixshm ohngoxhno—nghxoejshzxsqp
oejc’sjhzxslngbhnohx o;hpxhoejsj’phgxhw jponxghxahsjgok”

“Exzhgxhsjgo?hNo’phuhyuzk”

“Oejghzj’sjhx opnqjhoejhyuz;hsjgohjvmyungphgxoengbhaxsh p,hi ohpntmyc
t qqyjph pkhGx,hojyyhtjhexzhoejsjhfughijhuhoejxschxahsjgo?kkk”

“Znyyhcx heurjhpxtjh. gljo?hTupeu,hmupph phpxtjh. gljohxshsupmijssnjpk”
Ejho sgjqhoxhenphznajkh“Jvosuxsqngusnychyuojhoejhsupmijssnjphusj
yupongbhoenphcjusk”

UgqhnghoejheummnjpohasutjhxahtngqhPrnudeplchbxoh mhugqhzuyljqhxaa,
ummusjgoychp mmxpngbhoejhfxgrjspuonxghoxheurjhjgqjqhuohoejhrjschmxngo
zejghoxhYjrnghnohpjjtjqhoeuohnohzuphxgych. pohijbnggngbk

Eurngbhyxpohenphugoubxgnpo,hYjrnghfxgong jqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoej
bsuc-zenpljsjqhyugqxzgjs,hoscngbhoxhmsxrjhoxhenthoeuohuyyhoej
qnaanf yochusnpjphasxthoejhaufohoeuohzjhqxg’ohangqhx ohoej
mjf ynusnonjphugqheuinophxahx shyuixsjs;hi ohoejhyugqxzgjs,hynljhuyy
tjghzexhoenglhngqjmjgqjgoychugqhnghnpxyuonxg,hzuphpyxzhnghoulngbhnghugc
xoejshmjspxg’phnqju,hugqhmusonf yusychmusonuyhoxhenphxzgkhEjhpo flhox
nohoeuohoejhS ppnughmjupugohnphuhpzngjhugqhynljphpzngnpegjpp,hugqhoeuo
oxhbjohenthx ohxahenphpzngnpegjpphxgjht poheurjhu oexsnoc,hugqhoejsjhnp
gxgj;hxgjht poheurjhoejhponfl,hugqhzjheurjhijfxtjhpxhynijsuyhoeuohzj
eurjhuyyhxahuhp qqjghsjmyufjqhoejhponflhoeuohpjsrjqh phaxshuhoex pugq
cjusphichyuzcjsphugqhtxqjyhmsnpxgp,hzejsjhoejhzxsoeyjpp,hponglngb
mjupugohnphajqhxghbxxqhpx mhugqheuphuhanvjqhuyyxzugfjhxahf infhajjohxa
unsk

“Zeuohtuljphcx hoengl,”hpunqhYjrng,hoscngbhoxhbjohiuflhoxhoejhw jponxg,
“oeuohno’phntmxppniyjhoxhangqhpxtjhsjyuonxghoxhoejhyuixsjshnghzenfehoej
yuixshzx yqhijfxtjhmsxq fonrj?”

“Oeuohgjrjshfx yqhijhpxhznoehoejhS ppnughmjupugosc;hzj’rjhgxhmxzjshxrjs
oejt,”hugpzjsjqhoejhyugqxzgjsk

“Exzhfughgjzhfxgqnonxgphijhax gq?”hpunqhPrnudeplckhEurngbhjuojghpxtj
. gljohugqhynbeojqhuhfnbusjooj,hejhfutjhiuflhoxhoejhqnpf ppnxgkh“Uyy
mxppniyjhsjyuonxgphoxhoejhyuixshaxsfjheurjhijjghqjangjqhugqhpo qnjq,”
ejhpunqkh“Oejhsjynfhxahiusiusnpt,hoejhmsntnonrjhfxtt gjhznoehjufe
b usugojjhaxshuyy,hznyyhqnpummjushxahnopjya;hpjsaqxtheuphijjg
uixynpejq—oejsjhsjtungphgxoengbhi ohasjjhyuixs,hugqhnophaxstphusjhanvjq
ugqhsjuqchtuqj,hugqht pohijhuqxmojqkhMjstugjgoheugqp,hquc-yuixsjsp,
suttjsp—cx hfug’ohbjohx ohxahoexpjhaxstpk”

“I ohJ sxmjhnphqnppuonpanjqhznoehoejpjhaxstpk”

“Qnppuonpanjq,hugqhpjjlngbhgjzhxgjpkhUgqhznyyhangqhoejt,hnghuyy
msxiuinynock”

“Oeuo’ph. pohzeuohNhzuphtjugngb,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngkh“Zechpex yqg’ohzj
pjjlhoejthaxshx spjyrjp?”

“Ijfu pjhnohzx yqhijh. pohynljhngrjgongbhuasjpehoejhtjugphaxs
fxgpos fongbhsunyzucpkhOejchusjhsjuqc,hngrjgojqk”

“I ohnahoejchqxg’ohqxhaxsh p,hnahoejc’sjhpo mnq?”hpunqhYjrngk

UgqhubunghejhqjojfojqhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahuyusthnghoejhjcjphxahPrnudeplck

“Xe,hcjp;hzj’yyhi schoejhzxsyqh gqjshx shfump!hZj’rjhax gqhoejhpjfsjo
J sxmjhzuphpjjlngbhaxs!hN’rjhejusqhuyyhoeuo;hi o,hjvf pjhtj,hqxhcx 
lgxzhuyyhoeuo’phijjghqxgjhnghJ sxmjhxghoejhw jponxghxahoejhxsbugnduonxg
xahyuixs?”

“Gx,hrjschynooyjk”

“Oeuohw jponxghnphgxzhuipxsingbhoejhijpohtngqphnghJ sxmjkhOej
Pfe ydj-QjynopfehtxrjtjgokkkkhUgqhoejghuyyhoenphjgxstx phynojsuo sjhxa
oejhyuixshw jponxg,hoejhtxpohynijsuyhYuppuyyjhtxrjtjgohkkkhoej
T yeu pjghjvmjsntjgo?hOeuo’phuhaufohichgxz,huphcx ’sjhmsxiuiychuzusjk”

“Nheurjhpxtjhnqjuhxahno,hi ohrjschrub jk”

“Gx,hcx hxgychpuchoeuo;hgxhqx iohcx hlgxzhuyyhuix ohnohuphzjyyhuphNhqxk
N’thgxohuhmsxajppxshxahpxfnxyxbc,hxahfx spj,hi ohnohngojsjpojqhtj,hugq
sjuyyc,hnahnohngojsjpophcx ,hcx hx beohoxhpo qchnok”

“I ohzeuohfxgfy pnxgheurjhoejchfxtjhox?”

“Jvf pjhtjkkkk”

Oejhozxhgjnbeixspheuqhsnpjg,hugqhPrnudeplc,hxgfjhtxsjhfejflngbhYjrnghng
enphngfxgrjgnjgoheuinohxahmjjmngbhngoxhzeuohzuphijcxgqhoejhx ojs
feutijsphxahenphtngq,hzjgohoxhpjjhenphb jpophx ok


Feumojsh28

Yjrnghzuphngp aajsuiychixsjqhoeuohjrjgngbhznoehoejhyuqnjp;hejhzup
ponssjqhuphejheuqhgjrjshijjghijaxsjhichoejhnqjuhoeuohoej
qnppuonpaufonxghejhzuphajjyngbhznoehenphpcpojthxahtugubngbhenphyugqhzup
gxohughjvfjmonxguyhfupj,hi ohoejhbjgjsuyhfxgqnonxghxahoengbphnghS ppnu;
oeuohoejhxsbugnduonxghxahpxtjhsjyuonxghxahoejhyuixsjsphoxhoejhpxnyhng
zenfehoejchzx yqhzxsl,huphznoehoejhmjupugohejheuqhtjoheuya-zuchoxhoej
Prnudeplcp’,hzuphgxohuhqsjut,hi ohuhmsxiyjthzenfeht pohijhpxyrjqkhUgq
nohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohoejhmsxiyjthfx yqhijhpxyrjq,hugqhoeuohejhx beohox
oschugqhpxyrjhnok

Uaojshpucngbhbxxq-gnbeohoxhoejhyuqnjp,hugqhmsxtnpngbhoxhpouchoejhzexyj
xahoejhgjvohquc,hpxhuphoxhtuljhughjvmjqnonxghxghexspjiuflhznoehoejthox
pjjhughngojsjpongbhs nghnghoejhfsxzghaxsjpo,hYjrnghzjgo,hijaxsjhbxngb
oxhijq,hngoxhenphexpo’phpo qchoxhbjohoejhixxlphxghoejhyuixshw jponxg
oeuohPrnudeplcheuqhxaajsjqhentkhPrnudeplc’phpo qchzuphuhe bjhsxxt,
p ssx gqjqhichixxlfupjphugqhznoehozxhouiyjphnghno—xgjhuhtuppnrj
zsnongb-ouiyj,hpougqngbhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxt,hugqhoejhxoejshu
sx gqhouiyj,hfxrjsjqhznoehsjfjgohg tijsphxahsjrnjzphugqh.x sguyphng
qnaajsjgohyugb ubjp,hsugbjqhynljhoejhsucphxahuhpoushsx gqhoejhyutmkhXg
oejhzsnongb-ouiyjhzuphuhpougqhxahqsuzjsphtusljqhznoehbxyqhyjoojsngb,
ugqha yyhxahmumjsphxahrusnx phpxsopk

Prnudeplchoxxlhx ohoejhixxlp,hugqhpuohqxzghnghuhsxflngb-feunsk

“Zeuohusjhcx hyxxlngbhuohoejsj?”hejhpunqhoxhYjrng,hzexhzuphpougqngbhuo
oejhsx gqhouiyjhyxxlngbhoesx behoejhsjrnjzpk

“Xe,hcjp,hoejsj’phuhrjschngojsjpongbhusonfyjhejsj,”hpunqhPrnudeplchxa
oejhsjrnjzhYjrnghzuphexyqngbhnghenpheugqkh“Nohummjusp,”hejhzjgohxg,
znoehjubjshngojsjpo,h“oeuohAsnjqsnfehzuphgxo,huaojshuyy,hoejhmjspxg
fenjaychsjpmxgpniyjhaxshoejhmusononxghxahMxyugqkhNohnphmsxrjqkkkk”

Ugqhznoehenphfeusufojsnponfhfyjusgjpp,hejhp ttjqh mhoexpjhgjz,hrjsc
ntmxsougo,hugqhngojsjpongbhsjrjyuonxgpkhUyoex behYjrnghzuphjgbsxppjqhuo
oejhtxtjgohichenphnqjuphuix ohoejhmsxiyjthxahoejhyugq,hejhzxgqjsjq,hup
ejhejusqhPrnudeplc:h“Zeuohnphoejsjhngpnqjhxahent?hUgqhzec,hzechnphej
ngojsjpojqhnghoejhmusononxghxahMxyugq?”hZejghPrnudeplcheuqhangnpejq,
Yjrnghfx yqhgxohejymhuplngb:h“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohoejg?”hI ohoejsjhzup
gxoengbhoxhaxyyxzkhNohzuphpntmychngojsjpongbhoeuohnoheuqhijjghmsxrjqhox
ijhpxhugqhpxkhI ohPrnudeplchqnqhgxohjvmyung,hugqhpuzhgxhgjjqhoxhjvmyung
zechnohzuphngojsjpongbhoxhentk

“Cjp,hi ohNhzuphrjscht fehngojsjpojqhichcx shnssnouiyjhgjnbeixs,”hpunq
Yjrng,hpnbengbkh“Ej’phuhfyjrjshajyyxz,hugqhpunqhuhyxohoeuohzuphos jk”

“Xe,hbjohuyxgbhznoehcx !hUghngrjojsuojhp mmxsojshxahpjsaqxthuohejuso,
ynljhuyyhxahoejt!”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“Zexpjhtuspeuyhcx husjk”

“Cjp,hxgychNhtuspeuyhoejthnghoejhxoejshqnsjfonxg,”hpunqhPrnudeplc,
yu bengbk

“N’yyhojyyhcx hzeuohngojsjpophtjhrjscht fe,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Ej’phsnbeo
oeuohx shpcpojt,hoeuo’phoxhpuchxahsuonxguyhaustngb,hqxjpg’ohugpzjs,
oeuohoejhxgychoengbhoeuohugpzjsphnphoejhtxgjc-yjgqjshpcpojt,hynljhoeuo
tjjl-yxxlngbhbjgoyjtug’p,hxshjypjhoejhrjschpntmyjpokkkkhZexpjhau yohnp
no?”

“X shxzg,hxahfx spjkhIjpnqjp,hno’phgxohos jhoeuohnohqxjpg’ohugpzjskhNo
ugpzjsphznoehRuppnyofenlxrk”

“Uhaufoxsckkkk”

“I ohNhsjuyychqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohnohnphcx husjhp smsnpjqhuokhOejhmjxmyj
usjhuohp fehuhyxzhpoubjhxahsuonxguyhugqhtxsuyhqjrjyxmtjgo,hoeuohno’p
xirnx phoejc’sjhix gqhoxhxmmxpjhjrjscoengbhoeuo’phposugbjhoxhoejtkhNg
J sxmj,huhsuonxguyhpcpojthugpzjsphijfu pjhoejhmjxmyjhusjhjq fuojq;hno
axyyxzphoeuohzjht pohjq fuojhoejhmjxmyj—oeuo’phuyyk”

“I ohexzhusjhzjhoxhjq fuojhoejhmjxmyj?”

“Oxhjq fuojhoejhmjxmyjhoesjjhoengbphusjhgjjqjq:hpfexxyp,hugqhpfexxyp,
ugqhpfexxypk

“I ohcx hpunqhcx spjyahoejhmjxmyjhusjhuohp fehuhyxzhpoubjhxahtuojsnuy
qjrjyxmtjgo:hzeuohejymhusjhpfexxyphaxshoeuo?”

“Qxhcx hlgxz,hcx hsjtngqhtjhxahoejhpoxschxahoejhuqrnfjhbnrjghoxhoej
pnflhtug—Cx hpex yqhoschm sbuonrjhtjqnfngjkhOuljg:hzxspjkhOschyjjfejpk
Osnjqhoejt:hzxspjkhZjyy,hoejg,hoejsj’phgxoengbhyjaohi ohoxhmsuchoxhBxqk
Osnjqhno:hzxspjkhOeuo’ph. pohexzhnohnphznoeh pkhNhpuchmxynonfuy
jfxgxtc;hcx hpuc—zxspjkhNhpuchpxfnuynpt:hzxspjkhJq fuonxg:hzxspjk”

“I ohexzhqxhpfexxyphejymhtuoojsp?”

“Oejchbnrjhoejhmjupugohasjpehzugopk”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phuhoengbhN’rjhgjrjsh gqjspoxxq,”hYjrnghsjmynjqhznoehejuok
“Nghzeuohzuchusjhpfexxyphbxngbhoxhejymhoejhmjxmyjhoxhntmsxrjhoejns
tuojsnuyhmxpnonxg?hCx hpuchpfexxyp,hjq fuonxg,hznyyhbnrjhoejthasjpe
zugopkhPxht fehoejhzxspj,hpngfjhoejchzxg’ohijhfumuiyjhxahpuonpacngb
oejtkhUgqhnghzeuohzuchuhlgxzyjqbjhxahuqqnonxghugqhp iosufonxghugqhoej
fuojfenpthnphbxngbhoxhntmsxrjhoejnshtuojsnuyhfxgqnonxg,hNhgjrjshfx yq
tuljhx okhOejhquchijaxsjhcjpojsquc,hNhtjohuhmjupugohzxtughnghoej
jrjgngbhznoehuhynooyjhiuic,hugqhupljqhejshzejsjhpejhzuphbxngbkhPejhpunq
pejhzuphbxngbhoxhoejhznpjhzxtug;hejshixcheuqhpfsjutngbhanop,hpxhpejhzup
oulngbhenthoxhijhqxfoxsjqkhNhupljq,h‘Zec,hexzhqxjphoejhznpjhzxtughf sj
pfsjutngbhanop?’h‘Pejhm ophoejhfenyqhxghoejhejg-sxxpohugqhsjmjuophpxtj
feustkkkk’”

“Zjyy,hcx ’sjhpucngbhnohcx spjya!hZeuo’phzugojqhoxhmsjrjgohejshoulngb
ejshfenyqhoxhoejhejg-sxxpohoxhf sjhnohxahpfsjutngbhanophnph. pokkkk”
Prnudeplchpunq,hptnyngbhbxxq-e txsjqyck

“Xe,hgx!”hpunqhYjrnghznoehuggxcugfj;h“oeuohtjoexqhxahqxfoxsngbhNhtjsjyc
tjugohuphuhpntnyjhaxshqxfoxsngbhoejhmjxmyjhznoehpfexxypkhOejhmjxmyjhusj
mxxshugqhnbgxsugo—oeuohzjhpjjhuphp sjychuphoejhmjupugohzxtughpjjphoej
iuichnphnyyhijfu pjhnohpfsjutpkhI ohnghzeuohzuchoenphosx iyjhxahmxrjsoc
ugqhnbgxsugfjhnphoxhijhf sjqhichpfexxyphnphuphngfxtmsjejgpniyjhuphexz
oejhejg-sxxpohuaajfophoejhpfsjutngbkhZeuoheuphoxhijhf sjqhnphzeuohtuljp
enthmxxsk”

“Zjyy,hnghoeuo,huohyjupo,hcx ’sjhnghubsjjtjgohznoehPmjgfjs,hzexthcx 
qnpynljhpxht fekhEjhpucp,hoxx,hoeuohjq fuonxghtuchijhoejhfxgpjw jgfjhxa
bsjuojshmsxpmjsnochugqhfxtaxso,hxahtxsjhasjw jgohzupengb,huphejhpucp,
i ohgxohxahijngbhuiyjhoxhsjuqhugqhzsnojkkkk”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hN’thrjschbyuq—xshoejhfxgosusc,hrjschpxssc,hoeuohN’thng
ubsjjtjgohznoehPmjgfjs;hxgychN’rjhlgxzghnohuhyxgbhzenyjkhPfexxyphfughqx
gxhbxxq;hzeuohznyyhqxhbxxqhnphughjfxgxtnfhxsbugnduonxghnghzenfehoej
mjxmyjhznyyhijfxtjhsnfejs,hznyyheurjhtxsjhyjnp sj—ugqhoejghoejsjhznyy
ijhpfexxypk”

“Ponyy,huyyhxrjshJ sxmjhgxzhpfexxyphusjhxiynbuoxsck”

“Ugqhexzhaushqxhcx hubsjjhznoehPmjgfjshcx spjyahuix ohno?”hupljqhYjrngk

I ohoejsjhzuphuhbyjuthxahuyusthnghPrnudeplc’phjcjp,hugqhejhpunq
ptnyngb:

“Gx;hoeuohpfsjutngbhpoxschnphmxpnonrjychfumnouy!hQnqhcx hsjuyychejushno
cx spjya?”

Yjrnghpuzhoeuohejhzuphgxohoxhqnpfxrjshoejhfxggjfonxghijozjjghoenphtug’p
ynajhugqhenphoex beopkhXirnx pychejhqnqhgxohfusjhnghoejhyjupohzeuohenp
sjupxgngbhyjqhenthox;huyyhejhzugojqhzuphoejhmsxfjpphxahsjupxgngbkhUgq
ejhqnqhgxohynljhnohzejghoejhmsxfjpphxahsjupxgngbhisx beohenthngoxhu
iyngqhuyyjckhOeuohzuphoejhxgychoengbhejhqnpynljq,hugqhurxnqjqhic
feugbngbhoejhfxgrjspuonxghoxhpxtjoengbhubsjjuiyjhugqhut pngbk

Uyyhoejhntmsjppnxgphxahoejhquc,hijbnggngbhznoehoejhntmsjppnxghtuqjhic
oejhxyqhmjupugo,hzenfehpjsrjq,huphnohzjsj,huphoejha gqutjgouyhiupnphxa
uyyhoejhfxgfjmonxgphugqhnqjuphxahoejhquc,hoesjzhYjrnghngoxhrnxyjgo
jvfnojtjgokhOenphqjushbxxqhPrnudeplc,hljjmngbhuhpoxflhxahnqjuphpntmyc
axshpxfnuyhm smxpjp,hugqhxirnx pycheurngbhpxtjhxoejshmsngfnmyjphenqqjg
asxthYjrng,hzenyjhznoehoejhfsxzq,hzexpjhgutjhnphyjbnxg,hejhb nqjq
m iynfhxmngnxghichnqjuphejhqnqhgxohpeusj;hoeuohnsupfniyjhfx gosc
bjgoyjtug,hmjsajfoychfxssjfohnghoejhfxgfy pnxgphoeuohejheuqhijjg
zxssnjqhngoxhichynaj,hi ohzsxgbhnghenphjvupmjsuonxghubungpohuhzexyj
fyupp,hugqhoeuohoejhijpohfyupphnghS ppnu;henphxzghqnppuonpaufonxghznoe
oejhzxslhejheuqhijjghqxngb,hugqhoejhrub jhexmjhxahangqngbhuhsjtjqchaxs
uyyhoenp—uyyhzuphiyjgqjqhnghuhpjgpjhxahngzusqho stxny,hugqhugonfnmuonxg
xahpxtjhpxy onxghgjushuoheugqk

Yjaohuyxgjhnghoejhsxxthuppnbgjqhent,hycngbhxghuhpmsngbhtuoosjpphoeuo
cnjyqjqh gjvmjfojqychuohjrjschtxrjtjgohxahenphusthxshenphyjb,hYjrnghqnq
gxohauyyhupyjjmhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjkhGxohxgjhfxgrjspuonxghznoehPrnudeplc,
oex behejheuqhpunqhuhbsjuohqjuyhoeuohzuphfyjrjs,heuqhngojsjpojqhYjrng;
i ohoejhfxgfy pnxgphxahoejhnsupfniyjhyugqxzgjshsjw nsjqhfxgpnqjsuonxgk
Yjrnghfx yqhgxohejymhsjfuyyngbhjrjschzxsqhejheuqhpunq,hugqhng
ntubnguonxghutjgqngbhenphxzghsjmynjpk

“Cjp,hNhx beohoxheurjhpunqhoxhent:hCx hpuchoeuohx she piugqschqxjphgxo
ugpzjshijfu pjhoejhmjupugoheuojphntmsxrjtjgop,hugqhoeuohoejcht pohij
axsfjqhxghenthichu oexsnockhNahgxhpcpojthxahe piugqschugpzjsjqhuohuyy
znoex ohoejpjhntmsxrjtjgop,hcx hzx yqhijhw nojhsnbeokhI ohoejhxgyc
pcpojthoeuohqxjphugpzjshnphzejsjhyuixsjshnphzxslngbhnghuffxsqugfjhznoe
enpheuinop,h. pohuphxghoejhxyqhmjupugo’phyugqheuya-zuchejsjkhCx shugq
x shbjgjsuyhqnppuonpaufonxghznoehoejhpcpojthpexzphoeuohjnoejshzjhusjhox
iyutjhxshoejhyuixsjspkhZjheurjhbxgjhx shzuc—oejhJ sxmjughzuc—uhyxgb
zenyj,hznoex ohuplngbhx spjyrjphuix ohoejhw uynonjphxahx shyuixshaxsfjk
Yjoh phoschoxhyxxlh mxghoejhyuixshaxsfjhgxohuphughuiposufohaxsfj,hi o
uphoejh_S ppnughmjupugo_hznoehenphngpongfop,hugqhzjhpeuyyhussugbjhx s
pcpojthxahf yo sjhnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoeuokhNtubngj,hNhx beohoxheurj
punqhoxhent,hoeuohcx heurjhoejhputjhpcpojthuphoejhxyqhmjupugoheup,hoeuo
cx heurjhax gqhtjugphxahtulngbhcx shyuixsjsphouljhughngojsjpohnghoej
p ffjpphxahoejhzxsl,hugqheurjhax gqhoejheummchtjughnghoejhzuchxa
ntmsxrjtjgophzenfehoejchznyyhuqtno,hugqhcx hznyy,hznoex ohjveu pongb
oejhpxny,hbjohoznfjhxshoesjjhontjphoejhcnjyqhcx hbxohijaxsjkhQnrnqjhno
ngheuyrjp,hbnrjheuyahuphoejhpeusjhxahyuixs,hoejhp smy phyjaohcx hznyy
ijhbsjuojs,hugqhoejhpeusjhxahyuixshznyyhijhbsjuojshoxxkhUgqhoxhqxhoenp
xgjht pohyxzjshoejhpougqusqhxahe piugqschugqhngojsjpohoejhyuixsjsphng
nophp ffjppkhExzhoxhqxhoenp?—oeuo’phuhtuoojshxahqjouny;hi oh gqx iojqyc
nohfughijhqxgjk”

OenphnqjuhoesjzhYjrnghngoxhuhbsjuohjvfnojtjgokhEjhqnqhgxohpyjjmheuya
oejhgnbeo,hoenglngbhxrjshnghqjounyhoejhm oongbhxahenphnqjuhngox
msufonfjkhEjheuqhgxohngojgqjqhoxhbxhuzuchgjvohquc,hi ohejhgxz
qjojstngjqhoxhbxhextjhjusychnghoejhtxsgngbkhIjpnqjp,hoejhpnpojs-ng-yuz
znoehejshyxz-gjfljqhixqnfjhusx pjqhnghenthuhajjyngbhulnghoxhpeutjhugq
sjtxspjhaxshpxtjh oojsychiupjhufonxgkhTxpohntmxsougohxahuyy—ejht pohbjo
iuflhznoex ohqjyuc:hejhzx yqheurjhoxhtuljheupojhoxhm ohenphgjzhmsx.jfo
oxhoejhmjupugophijaxsjhoejhpxzngbhxahoejhzngojshzejuo,hpxhoeuohoej
pxzngbhtnbeohijh gqjsouljghxghuhgjzhiupnpkhEjheuqhtuqjh mhenphtngqhox
sjrxy onxgndjhenphzexyjhpcpojtk


Feumojsh29

Oejhfusscngbhx ohxahYjrng’phmyughmsjpjgojqhtugchqnaanf yonjp;hi ohej
pos bbyjqhxg,hqxngbhenph otxpo,hugqhuooungjqhuhsjp yohzenfe,hoex behgxo
zeuohejhqjpnsjq,hzuphjgx behoxhjguiyjhent,hznoex ohpjya-qjfjmonxg,hox
ijynjrjhoeuohoejhuoojtmohzuphzxsoehoejhosx iyjkhXgjhxahoejhfenja
qnaanf yonjphzuphoeuohoejhmsxfjpphxahf yonruongbhoejhyugqhzuphngha yy
pzngb,hoeuohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhpoxmhjrjscoengbhugqhijbnghnohuyyhubung
asxthoejhijbnggngb,hugqhoejhtufengjheuqhoxhijhtjgqjqhzenyjhnghtxonxgk

Zejghxghoejhjrjgngbhoeuohejhussnrjqhextjhejhngaxstjqhoejhiunynaahxahenp
myugp,hoejhyuoojshznoehrnpniyjhmyjup sjhubsjjqhznoehzeuohejhpunqhpx
yxgbhuphejhzuphmxngongbhx ohoeuohuyyhoeuoheuqhijjghqxgjh mhoxhoeuohontj
zuphpo mnqhugqh pjyjppkhOejhiunynaahpunqhoeuohejheuqhpunqhpxhuhyxgb
zenyjhubx,hi ohgxhejjqheuqhijjghmunqhentkhI ohuphaxshoejhmsxmxpuyhtuqj
ichYjrng—oxhouljhuhmusohuphpeusjexyqjshznoehenphyuixsjsphnghjufe
ubsnf yo suyh gqjsoulngb—uohoenphoejhiunynaahpntmychjvmsjppjqhu
msxax gqhqjpmxgqjgfc,hugqhxaajsjqhgxhqjangnojhxmngnxg,hi ohijbug
nttjqnuojychouylngbhxahoejh sbjgohgjfjppnochxahfusscngbhoejhsjtungngb
pejurjphxahscjhoejhgjvohquc,hugqhxahpjgqngbhoejhtjghx ohaxshoejhpjfxgq
myx bengb,hpxhoeuohYjrnghajyohoeuohoenphzuphgxohoejhontjhaxshqnpf ppngb
nok

Xghijbnggngbhoxhouylhoxhoejhmjupugophuix ohno,hugqhtulngbhuhmsxmxpnonxg
oxhfjqjhoejthoejhyugqhxghgjzhojstp,hejhfutjhngoxhfxyynpnxghznoehoej
putjhbsjuohqnaanf yochoeuohoejchzjsjhpxht fehuipxsijqhichoejhf ssjgo
zxslhxahoejhquc,hoeuohoejcheuqhgxohontjhoxhfxgpnqjshoejhuqrugoubjphugq
qnpuqrugoubjphxahoejhmsxmxpjqhpfejtjk

Oejhpntmyj-ejusojqhNrug,hoejhfxzejsq,hpjjtjqhfxtmyjojychoxhbsupm
Yjrng’phmsxmxpuy—oeuohejhpex yqhznoehenphautnychouljhuhpeusjhxahoej
msxanophxahoejhfuooyj-cusq—ugqhejhzuphnghfxtmyjojhpctmuoechznoehoej
myugkhI ohzejghYjrnghengojqhuohoejha o sjhuqrugoubjp,hNrug’phaufj
jvmsjppjqhuyusthugqhsjbsjohoeuohejhfx yqhgxohejushuyyhejheuqhoxhpuc,
ugqhejhtuqjheupojhoxhangqhentpjyahpxtjhouplhoeuohzx yqhuqtnohxahgx
qjyuc:hejhjnoejshpguofejqh mhoejhaxslhoxhmnofehoejheuchx ohxahoejhmjgp,
xshsughoxhbjohzuojshxshoxhfyjushx ohoejhq gbk

Ugxoejshqnaanf yochyuchnghoejhngrngfniyjhqnpijynjahxahoejhmjupugohoeuo
uhyugqxzgjs’phxi.jfohfx yqhijhugcoengbhjypjhoeughuhqjpnsjhoxhpw jjdj
uyyhejhfx yqhx ohxahoejtkhOejchzjsjhanstychfxgrngfjqhoeuohenphsjuyhunt
(zeuojrjshejhtnbeohpuchoxhoejt)hzx yqhuyzucphijhnghzeuohejhqnqhgxohpuc
oxhoejtkhUgqhoejchoejtpjyrjp,hnghbnrngbhoejnshxmngnxg,hpunqhuhbsjuo
qjuyhi ohgjrjshpunqhzeuohzuphoejnshsjuyhxi.jfokhTxsjxrjsh(Yjrnghajyo
oeuohoejhnsupfniyjhyugqxzgjsheuqhijjghsnbeo)hoejhmjupugophtuqjhoejns
anspohugqh guyojsuiyjhfxgqnonxghxahugchubsjjtjgohzeuojrjshoeuohoejc
pex yqhgxohijhaxsfjqhoxhugchgjzhtjoexqphxahonyyubjhxahugchlngq,hgxshox
 pjhgjzhntmyjtjgopkhOejchubsjjqhoeuohoejhtxqjsghmyx behmyx bejqhijoojs,
oeuohoejhpfusnanjshqnqhoejhzxslhtxsjhw nflyc,hi ohoejchax gqhoex pugqp
xahsjupxgphoeuohtuqjhnohx ohxahoejhw jponxghaxshoejthoxh pjhjnoejshxa
oejt;hugqhoex behejheuqhuffjmojqhoejhfxgrnfonxghoeuohejhzx yqheurjhox
yxzjshoejhpougqusqhxahf yonruonxg,hejhajyohpxsschoxhbnrjh mhntmsxrjq
tjoexqp,hoejhuqrugoubjphxahzenfehzjsjhpxhxirnx pkhI ohnghpmnojhxahuyy
oejpjhqnaanf yonjphejhbxohenphzuc,hugqhichu o tghoejhpcpojthzup
zxslngb,hxshuohyjupohpxhnohpjjtjqhoxhentk

UohanspohYjrngheuqhoex beohxahbnrngbh mhoejhzexyjhaustngbhxahoejhyugq
. pohuphnohzuphoxhoejhmjupugop,hoejhyuixsjsp,hugqhoejhiunynaahxghgjz
fxgqnonxgphxahmusogjspenm;hi ohejhzuphrjschpxxghfxgrngfjqhoeuohoenphzup
ntmxppniyj,hugqhqjojstngjqhoxhqnrnqjhnoh mkhOejhfuooyj-cusq,hoej
busqjg,heuchanjyqp,hugqhusuiyjhyugq,hqnrnqjqhngoxhpjrjsuyhmusop,heuqhox
ijhtuqjhngoxhpjmusuojhyxopkhOejhpntmyj-ejusojqhfxzejsq,hNrug,hzex,
Yjrnghaugfnjq,h gqjspoxxqhoejhtuoojshijoojshoeughugchxahoejt,
fxyyjfongbhoxbjoejshuhbugbhxahzxsljsphoxhejymhent,hmsngfnmuyychxahenp
xzghautnyc,hijfutjhuhmusogjshnghoejhfuooyj-cusqkhUhqnpougohmusohxahoej
jpouoj,huhosufohxahzupojhyugqhoeuoheuqhyunghauyyxzhaxshjnbeohcjusp,hzup
znoehoejhejymhxahoejhfyjrjshfusmjgojs,hAcxqxshScjd gxr,houljghichpnv
autnynjphxahmjupugophxghgjzhfxgqnonxgphxahmusogjspenm,hugqhoejhmjupugo
Pe sujrhoxxlhoejhtugubjtjgohxahuyyhoejhrjbjouiyjhbusqjgphxghoejhputj
ojstpkhOejhsjtungqjshxahoejhyugqhzuphponyyhzxsljqhxghoejhxyqhpcpojt,
i ohoejpjhoesjjhuppxfnuojqhmusogjspenmphzjsjhoejhanspohpojmhoxhuhgjz
xsbugnduonxghxahoejhzexyj,hugqhoejchfxtmyjojychoxxlh mhYjrng’phontjk

Nohnphos jhoeuohnghoejhfuooyj-cusqhoengbphzjgohgxhijoojshoeughijaxsj,
ugqhNrughposjg x pychxmmxpjqhzusthex pngbhaxshoejhfxzphugqhi oojshtuqj
xahasjpehfsjut,huaanstngbhoeuohfxzphsjw nsjhyjpphaxxqhnahljmohfxyq,hugq
oeuohi oojshnphtxsjhmsxanouiyjhtuqjhasxthpx shfsjut,hugqhejhupljqhaxs
zubjph. pohuph gqjshoejhxyqhpcpojt,hugqhoxxlhgxohoejhpynbeojpohngojsjpo
nghoejhaufohoeuohoejhtxgjchejhsjfjnrjqhzuphgxohzubjphi ohughuqrugfjhx o
xahenpha o sjhpeusjhnghoejhmsxanopk

Nohnphos jhoeuohAcxqxshScjd gxr’phfxtmugchqnqhgxohmyx behxrjshoej
bsx gqhoznfjhijaxsjhpxzngb,hupheuqhijjghubsjjq,h. ponacngbhoejtpjyrjp
xghoejhmyjuhoeuohoejhontjhzuphoxxhpexsokhNohnphos jhoeuohoejhmjupugop
xahoejhputjhfxtmugc,hoex behoejcheuqhubsjjqhoxhzxslhoejhyugqhxghgjz
fxgqnonxgp,huyzucphpmxljhxahoejhyugq,hgxohuphejyqhnghmusogjspenm,hi o
uphsjgojqhaxsheuyahoejhfsxm,hugqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhoejhmjupugophugq
Scjd gxrhentpjyahpunqhoxhYjrng,h“Nahcx hzx yqhouljhuhsjgohaxshoejhyugq,
nohzx yqhpurjhcx hosx iyj,hugqhzjhpex yqhijhtxsjhasjjk”hTxsjxrjshoej
putjhmjupugophljmohm oongbhxaa,hxghrusnx phjvf pjp,hoejhi nyqngbhxahu
fuooyjcusqhugqhiusghxghoejhyugqhuphubsjjqh mxg,hugqhqjyucjqhqxngbhno
onyyhoejhzngojsk

Nohnphos jhoeuohPe sujrhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhyjohx ohoejhlnofejghbusqjgp
ejheuqh gqjsouljghnghptuyyhyxophoxhoejhmjupugopkhEjhjrnqjgoychw noj
tnp gqjspoxxq,hugqhummusjgoychngojgonxguyychtnp gqjspoxxq,hoej
fxgqnonxgph mxghzenfehoejhyugqheuqhijjghbnrjghoxhentk

Xaojg,hoxx,houylngbhoxhoejhmjupugophugqhjvmyungngbhoxhoejthuyyhoej
uqrugoubjphxahoejhmyug,hYjrnghajyohoeuohoejhmjupugophejusqhgxoengbhi o
oejhpx gqhxahenphrxnfj,hugqhzjsjhanstychsjpxyrjq,hzeuojrjshejhtnbeo
puc,hgxohoxhyjohoejtpjyrjphijhouljghngkhEjhajyohoenphjpmjfnuyychzejghej
ouyljqhoxhoejhfyjrjsjpohxahoejhmjupugop,hScjd gxr,hugqhqjojfojqhoej
byjuthnghScjd gxr’phjcjphzenfehpexzjqhpxhmyungychixoehnsxgnfuy
ut pjtjgohuohYjrng,hugqhoejhansthfxgrnfonxghoeuo,hnahugcxgjhzjsjhoxhij
ouljghng,hnohzx yqhgxohijhej,hScjd gxrkhI ohnghpmnojhxahuyyhoenphYjrng
oex beohoejhpcpojthzxsljq,hugqhoeuohichljjmngbhuffx gophposnfoychugq
ngpnpongbhxghenphxzghzuc,hejhzx yqhmsxrjhoxhoejthnghoejha o sjhoej
uqrugoubjphxahoejhussugbjtjgo,hugqhoejghoejhpcpojthzx yqhbxhxahnopjyak

Oejpjhtuoojsp,hoxbjoejshznoehoejhtugubjtjgohxahoejhyugqhponyyhyjaohxg
enpheugqp,hugqhoejhngqxxshzxslhxrjshenphixxl,hpxhjgbsxppjqhYjrnghoej
zexyjhp ttjshoeuohejhpfusfjychjrjshzjgohx ohpexxongbkhUohoejhjgqhxa
U b pohejhejusqhoeuohoejhXiyxgplcpheuqhbxgjhuzuchoxhTxpfxz,hasxthoejns
pjsrugohzexhisx beohiuflhoejhpnqj-puqqyjkhEjhajyohoeuohnghgxohugpzjsngb
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phyjoojshejheuqhichenphs qjgjpp,hxahzenfehejhfx yq
gxohoenglhznoex ohuhay pehxahpeutj,hi sgjqhenphpenmp,hugqhoeuohejhzx yq
gjrjshbxhugqhpjjhoejthubungkhEjheuqhijjgh. pohuphs qjhznoehoej
Prnudeplcp,hyjurngbhoejthznoex ohpucngbhbxxq-icjkhI ohejhzx yqhgjrjshbx
oxhpjjhoejthubunghjnoejskhEjhqnqhgxohfusjhuix ohoeuohgxzkhOejhi pngjpp
xahsjxsbugndngbhoejhaustngbhxahenphyugqhuipxsijqhenthuphfxtmyjojychup
oex behoejsjhzx yqhgjrjshijhugcoengbhjypjhnghenphynajkhEjhsjuqhoej
ixxlphyjgohenthichPrnudeplc,hugqhfxmcngbhx ohzeuohejheuqhgxohbxo,hej
sjuqhixoehoejhjfxgxtnfhugqhpxfnuynponfhixxlphxghoejhp i.jfo,hi o,huphej
euqhugonfnmuojq,hax gqhgxoengbhijusngbhxghoejhpfejtjhejheuqh gqjsouljgk
Nghoejhixxlphxghmxynonfuyhjfxgxtc—nghTnyy,haxshngpougfj,hzexthej
po qnjqhanspohznoehbsjuohusqxs,hexmngbhjrjschtng ojhoxhangqhughugpzjs
oxhoejhw jponxgphoeuohzjsjhjgbsxppngbhent—ejhax gqhyuzphqjq fjqhasxt
oejhfxgqnonxghxahyugqhf yo sjhnghJ sxmj;hi ohejhqnqhgxohpjjhzechoejpj
yuzp,hzenfehqnqhgxohummychnghS ppnu,ht pohijhbjgjsuykhEjhpuzh. pohoej
putjhoengbhnghoejhpxfnuynponfhixxlp:hjnoejshoejchzjsjhoejhiju ona yhi o
ntmsufonfuiyjhaugoupnjphzenfeheuqhaupfnguojqhenthzejghejhzuphuhpo qjgo,
xshoejchzjsjhuoojtmophuohntmsxrngb,hsjfonacngbhoejhjfxgxtnfhmxpnonxghng
zenfehJ sxmjhzuphmyufjq,hznoehzenfehoejhpcpojthxahyugqhojg sjhnghS ppnu
euqhgxoengbhnghfxttxgkhMxynonfuyhjfxgxtchoxyqhenthoeuohoejhyuzphic
zenfehoejhzjuyoehxahJ sxmjheuqhijjghqjrjyxmjq,hugqhzuphqjrjyxmngb,hzjsj
 gnrjspuyhugqh gruscngbkhPxfnuynpthoxyqhenthoeuohqjrjyxmtjgohuyxgb
oejpjhyngjphyjuqphoxhs ngkhUgqhgjnoejshxahoejthburjhughugpzjs,hxshjrjg
uhengo,hnghsjmychoxhoejhw jponxghzeuohej,hYjrng,hugqhuyyhoejhS ppnug
mjupugophugqhyugqxzgjsp,hzjsjhoxhqxhznoehoejnshtnyynxgphxaheugqphugq
tnyynxgphxahufsjp,hoxhtuljhoejthuphmsxq fonrjhuphmxppniyjhaxshoej
fxttxghzjuyk

Eurngbhxgfjhouljghoejhp i.jfoh m,hejhsjuqhfxgpfnjgonx pychjrjscoengb
ijusngbhxghno,hugqhngojgqjqhnghoejhu o tghoxhbxhuisxuqhoxhpo qchyugq
pcpojtphxghoejhpmxo,hnghxsqjshoeuohejhtnbeohgxohxghoenphw jponxghij
fxgasxgojqhznoehzeuohpxhxaojghtjohenthxghrusnx php i.jfopkhXaojg,h. po
uphejhzuphijbnggngbhoxh gqjspougqhoejhnqjuhnghoejhtngqhxahugcxgjhejhzup
ouylngbhox,hugqhzuphijbnggngbhoxhjvmyunghenphxzg,hejhzx yqhp qqjgychij
oxyq:h“I ohLu aatugg,hi oh.xgjp,hi ohQ ixnp,hi ohTnfejyyn?hCx heurjg’o
sjuqhoejt:hoejc’rjhoesupejqhoeuohw jponxghx ohoexsx beyck”

EjhpuzhgxzhqnpongfoychoeuohLu aatugghugqhTnfejyynheuqhgxoengbhoxhojyy
entkhEjhlgjzhzeuohejhzugojqkhEjhpuzhoeuohS ppnuheuphpmyjgqnqhyugq,
pmyjgqnqhyuixsjsp,hugqhoeuohnghfjsounghfupjp,huphuohoejhmjupugo’phxg
oejhzuchoxhPrnudeplc’p,hoejhmsxq fjhsunpjqhichoejhyuixsjsphugqhoejhyugq
nphbsjuo—nghoejhtu.xsnochxahfupjphzejghfumnouyhnphummynjqhnghoej
J sxmjughzuchoejhmsxq fjhnphptuyy,hugqhoeuohoenphpntmychusnpjphasxthoej
aufohoeuohoejhyuixsjsphzugohoxhzxslhugqhzxslhzjyyhxgychnghoejnshxzg
mjf ynushzuc,hugqhoeuohoenphugoubxgnpthnphgxohngfnqjgouyhi o
ngrusnuiyj,hugqheuphnophsxxophnghoejhguonxguyhpmnsnokhEjhoex beohoeuo
oejhS ppnughmjxmyjhzexpjhouplhnohzuphoxhfxyxgndjhugqhf yonruojhrupo
osufophxah gxff mnjqhyugq,hfxgpfnx pychuqejsjq,honyyhuyyhoejnshyugqhzup
xff mnjq,hoxhoejhtjoexqphp nouiyjhoxhoejnshm smxpj,hugqhoeuohoejns
tjoexqphzjsjhichgxhtjugphpxhiuqhuphzuphbjgjsuyychp mmxpjqkhUgqhej
zugojqhoxhmsxrjhoenphoejxsjonfuyychnghenphixxlhugqhmsufonfuyychxghenp
yugqk


Feumojsh30

UohoejhjgqhxahPjmojtijshoejhontijsheuqhijjghfusojqhaxshi nyqngbhoej
fuooyjcusqhxghoejhyugqhoeuoheuqhijjghuyyxoojqhoxhoejhuppxfnuonxghxa
mjupugop,hugqhoejhi oojshasxthoejhfxzphzuphpxyqhugqhoejhmsxanop
qnrnqjqkhNghmsufonfjhoejhpcpojthzxsljqhfumnouyyc,hxs,huohyjupo,hpxhno
pjjtjqhoxhYjrngkhNghxsqjshoxhzxslhx ohoejhzexyjhp i.jfohoejxsjonfuyyc
ugqhoxhfxtmyjojhenphixxl,hzenfe,hnghYjrng’phqucqsjutp,hzuphgxohtjsjyc
oxhjaajfohuhsjrxy onxghnghmxynonfuyhjfxgxtc,hi ohoxhuggnenyuojhoeuo
pfnjgfjhjgonsjychugqhoxhyuchoejhax gquonxghxahuhgjzhpfnjgfjhxahoej
sjyuonxghxahoejhmjxmyjhoxhoejhpxny,huyyhoeuohzuphyjaohoxhqxhzuphoxhtulj
uhox shuisxuq,hugqhoxhpo qchxghoejhpmxohuyyhoeuoheuqhijjghqxgjhnghoej
putjhqnsjfonxg,hugqhoxhfxyyjfohfxgfy pnrjhjrnqjgfjhoeuohuyyhoeuoheuq
ijjghqxgjhoejsjhzuphgxohzeuohzuphzugojqkhYjrnghzuphxgychzunongbhaxshoej
qjynrjschxahenphzejuohoxhsjfjnrjhoejhtxgjchaxshnohugqhbxhuisxuqkhI o
oejhsungphijbug,hmsjrjgongbhoejheusrjpongbhxahoejhfxsghugqhmxouoxjp
yjaohnghoejhanjyqp,hugqhm oongbhuhpoxmhoxhuyyhzxsl,hjrjghoxhoej
qjynrjschxahoejhzejuok

Oejht qhzuphntmuppuiyjhuyxgbhoejhsxuqp;hozxhtnyyphzjsjhfussnjqhuzuc,
ugqhoejhzjuoejshbxohzxspjhugqhzxspjk

Xghoejh30oehxahPjmojtijshoejhp ghfutjhx ohnghoejhtxsgngb,hugqhexmngb
axshangjhzjuoejs,hYjrnghijbughtulngbhanguyhmsjmusuonxgphaxshenp
.x sgjckhEjhburjhxsqjsphaxshoejhzejuohoxhijhqjynrjsjq,hpjgohoejhiunynaa
oxhoejhtjsfeugohoxhbjohoejhtxgjchxzngbhent,hugqhzjgohx ohentpjyahox
bnrjhpxtjhanguyhqnsjfonxgphxghoejhjpouojhijaxsjhpjoongbhxaak

Eurngbhangnpejqhuyyhenphi pngjpp,hpxuljqhoesx behznoehoejhposjutphxa
zuojshzenfehljmohs ggngbhqxzghoejhyjuoejshijengqhenphgjflhugqhenp
bunojsp,hi ohnghoejhljjgjpohugqhtxpohfxganqjgohojtmjs,hYjrnghsjo sgjq
extjzusqphnghoejhjrjgngbkhOejhzjuoejsheuqhijfxtjhzxspjhoeughjrjs
oxzusqphjrjgngb;hoejheunyhyupejqhoejhqsjgfejqhtusjhpxhfs jyychoeuohpej
zjgohuyxgbhpnqjzucp,hpeulngbhejshejuqhugqhjusp;hi ohYjrnghzuphuyyhsnbeo
 gqjshenphexxq,hugqhejhyxxljqhfejjsa yychuix ohenthuohoejht qqchposjutp
s ggngbh gqjshoejhzejjyp,huohoejhqsxmpheugbngbhxghjrjschiusjhoznb,huo
oejhzenojgjpphxahoejhmuofehxah gtjyojqheunypoxgjphxghoejhmyuglphxahoej
isnqbj,huohoejhoenflhyucjshxahponyyh. nfc,hayjpechyjurjphoeuohyuc
ejumjqh mhuix ohoejhposnmmjqhjyt-osjjkhNghpmnojhxahoejhbyxxtngjpphxa
guo sjhusx gqhent,hejhajyohmjf ynusychjubjskhOejhouylphejheuqhijjg
eurngbhznoehoejhmjupugophnghoejha soejshrnyyubjheuqhpexzghoeuohoejc
zjsjhijbnggngbhoxhbjoh pjqhoxhoejnshgjzhmxpnonxgkhOejhxyqhpjsrugohox
zexpjhe ohejheuqhbxgjhoxhbjohqschjrnqjgoychummsxrjqhxahYjrng’phmyug,
ugqhxahenphxzghuffxsqhmsxmxpjqhoxhjgojshoejhmusogjspenmhichoejhm sfeupj
xahfuooyjk

“Nheurjhxgychoxhbxhpo iixsgychxghoxzusqphtchunt,hugqhNhpeuyyhuoounghtc
jgq,”hoex beohYjrng;h“ugqhno’phpxtjoengbhoxhzxslhugqhouljhosx iyjhaxsk
Oenphnphgxohuhtuoojshxahtcpjyahngqnrnq uyyc;hoejhw jponxghxahoejhm iynf
zjyausjhfxtjphngoxhnokhOejhzexyjhpcpojthxahf yo sj,hoejhfenjahjyjtjgo
nghoejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhmjxmyj,ht pohijhfxtmyjojychosugpaxstjqkhNgpojuq
xahmxrjsoc,hbjgjsuyhmsxpmjsnochugqhfxgojgo;hngpojuqhxahexponynoc,
eustxgchugqh gnochxahngojsjpopkhNghpexso,huhiyxxqyjpphsjrxy onxg,hi ohu
sjrxy onxghxahoejhbsjuojpohtubgno qj,hijbnggngbhnghoejhynooyjhfnsfyjhxa
x shqnposnfo,hoejghoejhmsxrngfj,hoejghS ppnu,hoejhzexyjhzxsyqkhIjfu pj
uh. pohnqjuhfuggxohi ohijhas noa ykhCjp,hno’phughunthzxsoehzxslngbhaxsk
Ugqhnophijngbhtj,hLxpocuhYjrng,hzexhzjgohoxhuhiuyyhnghuhiyuflhonj,hugq
zuphsja pjqhichoejhPeofejsiuoplucuhbnsy,hugqhzexhzuphngosngpnfuyychp fe
uhmnona y,hzxsoeyjpphfsjuo sj—oeuohmsxrjphgxoengb;hNhajjyhp sjhAsuglyng
ajyoh. pohuphzxsoeyjpp,hugqhejhoxxheuqhgxhaunoehnghentpjya,hoenglngbhxa
entpjyahuphuhzexyjkhOeuohtjugphgxoengbkhUgqhejhoxx,htxpohynljyc,heuqhug
UbuajuhTneuyxrguhoxhzexthejhfxganqjqhenphpjfsjopk”

T pngbhxghp fehoex beophYjrnghsjufejqhextjhnghoejhquslgjppk

Oejhiunynaa,hzexheuqhijjghoxhoejhtjsfeugo,heuqhfxtjhiuflhugqhisx beo
musohxahoejhtxgjchaxshoejhzejuokhUghubsjjtjgoheuqhijjghtuqjhznoehoej
xyqhpjsrugo,hugqhxghoejhsxuqhoejhiunynaaheuqhyjusgjqhoeuohjrjsczejsj
oejhfxsghzuphponyyhpougqngbhnghoejhanjyqp,hpxhoeuohenphxgjhe gqsjqhugq
pnvochpexflphoeuoheuqhgxohijjghfussnjqhzjsjhgxoengbhnghfxtmusnpxghznoe
oejhyxppjphxahxoejspk

UaojshqnggjshYjrnghzuphpnoongb,huphejh p uyychqnq,hnghughjupchfeuns
znoehuhixxl,hugqhuphejhsjuqhejhzjgohxghoenglngbhxahoejh.x sgjchijaxsj
enthnghfxggjfonxghznoehenphixxlkhOxquchuyyhoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahenphixxl
sxpjhijaxsjhenthznoehpmjfnuyhqnpongfogjpp,hugqhzexyjhmjsnxqphsugbjq
oejtpjyrjphnghenphtngqhnghnyy posuonxghxahenphoejxsnjpkh“Nht pohzsnoj
oeuohqxzg,”hejhoex beokh“Oeuohx beohoxhaxsthuhisnjahngosxq fonxg,hzenfe
Nhoex beoh ggjfjppuschijaxsjk”hEjhbxoh mhoxhbxhoxhenphzsnongb-ouiyj,
ugqhYuplu,hycngbhuohenphajjo,hbxoh mhoxx,hposjofengbhugqhyxxlngbhuohent
uphoex behoxhngw nsjhzejsjhoxhbxkhI ohejheuqhgxohontjhoxhzsnojhnohqxzg,
axshoejhejuqhmjupugopheuqhfxtjhsx gq,hugqhYjrnghzjgohx ohngoxhoejheuyy
oxhoejtk

Uaojshenphyjrjj,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hbnrngbhqnsjfonxgphuix ohoejhyuixsphxa
oejhgjvohquc,hugqhpjjngbhuyyhoejhmjupugophzexheuqhi pngjpphznoehent,
Yjrnghzjgohiuflhoxhenphpo qchugqhpuohqxzghoxhzxslk

Yupluhyuch gqjshoejhouiyj;hUbuajuhTneuyxrguhpjooyjqhejspjyahnghejs
myufjhznoehejshpoxflngbk

Uaojshzsnongbhaxshuhynooyjhzenyj,hYjrnghp qqjgychoex beohznoe
jvfjmonxguyhrnrnqgjpphxahLnooc,hejshsja puy,hugqhoejnshyupohtjjongbkhEj
bxoh mhugqhijbughzuylngbhuix ohoejhsxxtk

“Zeuo’phoejh pjhxahijngbhqsjusc?”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgukh“Fxtj,hzechqx
cx hpouchxghuohextj?hCx hx beohoxhbxhoxhpxtjhzusthpmsngbp,hjpmjfnuyyc
gxzhcx ’sjhsjuqchaxshoejh.x sgjck”

“Zjyy,hNhuthbxngbhuzuchoejhquchuaojshoxtxssxz,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu;hNht po
angnpehtchzxslk”

“Oejsj,hoejsj,hcx shzxsl,hcx hpuc!hUphnahcx heuqg’ohqxgjhjgx behaxshoej
mjupugop!hZec,huph’onp,hoejc’sjhpucngb,h‘Cx shtupojshznyyhijhbjoongb
pxtjhexgxshasxthoejhOpushaxshnok’hNgqjjqhugqhnohnphuhposugbjhoengb;hzec
gjjqhcx hzxsschuix ohoejhmjupugop?”

“N’thgxohzxsscngbhuix ohoejt;hN’thqxngbhnohaxshtchxzghbxxqk”

UbuajuhTneuyxrguhlgjzhjrjschqjounyhxahYjrng’phmyugphaxshenphyugqkhYjrng
xaojghm ohenphrnjzphijaxsjhejshnghuyyhoejnshfxtmyjvnoc,hugqhgxo
 gfxttxgychejhusb jqhznoehejshugqhqnqhgxohubsjjhznoehejshfxttjgopkhI o
xghoenphxffupnxghpejhjgonsjychtnpngojsmsjojqhzeuohejheuqhpunqk

“Xahxgj’phpx y’phpuyruonxghzjhuyyhlgxzhugqht pohoenglhijaxsjhuyyhjypj,”
pejhpunqhznoehuhpnbekh“MusajghQjgnpnofehgxz,haxshuyyhejhzuphgxhpfexyus,
ejhqnjqhuhqjuoehoeuohBxqhbsugohjrjscxgjhxah phoejhynlj,”hpejhpunq,
sjajssngbhoxhuhpjsrugohzexheuqhqnjqhsjfjgoyckh“Oxxlhoejhpufsutjgohugq
uyyk”

“Oeuo’phgxohzeuohNhtjug,”hpunqhejkh“NhtjughoeuohN’thufongbhaxshtchxzg
uqrugoubjkhNo’phuyyhoejhijoojshaxshtjhnahoejhmjupugophqxhoejnshzxsl
ijoojsk”

“Zjyy,hzeuojrjshcx hqx,hnahej’phuhyudchbxxq-axs-gx beo,hjrjscoengb’yy
ijhuohpnvjphugqhpjrjgpkhNahejheuphuhfxgpfnjgfj,hej’yyhzxsl,hugqhnahgxo,
oejsj’phgxhqxngbhugcoengbk”

“Xe,hfxtj,hcx hpuchcx spjyahNrugheuphijb ghyxxlngbhuaojshoejhfuooyj
ijoojsk”

“UyyhNhpuchnp,”hugpzjsjqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hjrnqjgoychgxohpmjulngbhuo
sugqxt,hi ohnghposnfohpjw jgfjhxahnqju,h“oeuohcx hx beohoxhbjohtussnjq,
oeuo’phzeuohNhpuck”

UbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phuyy pnxghoxhoejhrjschp i.jfohejheuqhxgych. pohijjg
oenglngbhuix o,he sohugqhpo gbhentkhYjrnghpfxzyjq,hugqhznoex o
ugpzjsngbhejs,hejhpuohqxzghubunghoxhenphzxsl,hsjmjuongbhoxhentpjyahuyy
oeuohejheuqhijjghoenglngbhxahoejhsjuyhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoeuohzxslkhXgyc
uohngojsruyphejhynpojgjqhnghoejhponyygjpphoxhoejhfynflhxahUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu’phgjjqyjp,hugqhsjfxyyjfongbhzeuohejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhsjtjtijs,
ejhasxzgjqhubungk

Uohgngjhx’fyxflhoejchejusqhoejhijyyhugqhoejhaungohrnisuonxghxahu
fussnubjhxrjshoejht qk

“Zjyy,hejsj’phrnpnoxsphfxtjhoxh p,hugqhcx hzxg’ohijhq yy,”hpunqhUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu,hbjoongbh mhugqhbxngbhoxhoejhqxxskhI ohYjrnghxrjsoxxlhejsk
Enphzxslhzuphgxohbxngbhzjyyhgxz,hugqhejhzuphbyuqhxahuhrnpnoxs,hzexjrjs
nohtnbeohijk


Feumojsh31

S ggngbheuyazuchqxzghoejhpounsfupj,hYjrnghfu beohuhpx gqhejhlgjz,hu
autnynushfx behnghoejheuyykhI ohejhejusqhnohngqnpongfoychoesx behoej
px gqhxahenphxzghaxxopojmp,hugqhexmjqhejhzuphtnpouljgkhOejghejhfu beo
pnbeohxahuhyxgb,hixgc,hautnynushanb sj,hugqhgxzhnohpjjtjqhoejsjhzuphgx
mxppninynochxahtnpoulj;hugqhcjohejhponyyhzjgohxghexmngbhoeuohoenphouyy
tughoulngbhxaahenpha shfyxulhugqhfx bengbhzuphgxohenphisxoejshGnlxyuck

Yjrnghyxrjqhenphisxoejs,hi ohijngbhznoehenthzuphuyzucphuhoxso sjkh. po
gxz,hzejghYjrng,h gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahoejhoex beophoeuoheuqhfxtjhox
ent,hugqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phengo,hzuphnghuhosx iyjqhugqh gfjsoung
e txs,hoejhtjjongbhznoehenphisxoejshoeuohejheuqhoxhaufjhpjjtjq
musonf yusychqnaanf yokhNgpojuqhxahuhynrjyc,hejuyoechrnpnoxs,hpxtj
x opnqjshzexhzx yq,hejhexmjq,hfejjshenth mhnghenph gfjsounghe txs,hej
euqhoxhpjjhenphisxoejs,hzexhlgjzhenthoesx behugqhoesx be,hzexhzx yq
fuyyhaxsoehuyyhoejhoex beophgjusjpohenphejuso,hzx yqhaxsfjhenthoxhpexz
entpjyaha yyckhUgqhoeuohejhzuphgxohqnpmxpjqhoxhqxk

Ugbschznoehentpjyahaxshpxhiupjhuhajjyngb,hYjrnghsughngoxhoejheuyy;hup
pxxghuphejheuqhpjjghenphisxoejshfyxpj,hoenphajjyngbhxahpjyanpe
qnpummxngotjgohrugnpejqhngpougoychugqhzuphsjmyufjqhichmnockhOjssniyjhup
enphisxoejshGnlxyucheuqhijjghijaxsjhnghenphjtufnuonxghugqhpnflyngjpp,
gxzhejhyxxljqhponyyhtxsjhjtufnuojq,hponyyhtxsjhzupojqkhEjhzuphu
pljyjoxghfxrjsjqhznoehplngk

Ejhpoxxqhnghoejheuyy,h.jslngbhenphyxgbhoenghgjfl,hugqhm yyngbhoejhpfusa
xaahno,hugqhptnyjqhuhposugbjhugqhmnona yhptnyjkhZejghejhpuzhoeuohptnyj,
p itnppnrjhugqhe tiyj,hYjrnghajyohpxtjoengbhfy ofengbhuohenphoesxuok

“Cx hpjj,hN’rjhfxtjhoxhcx ,”hpunqhGnlxyuchnghuhoenflhrxnfj,hgjrjshaxs
xgjhpjfxgqhoulngbhenphjcjphxaahenphisxoejs’phaufjkh“N’rjhijjghtjugngb
oxhuhyxgbhzenyj,hi ohN’rjhijjgh gzjyyhuyyhoejhontjkhGxzhN’thjrjshpx
t fehijoojs,”hejhpunq,hs iingbhenphijusqhznoehenphinbhoengheugqpk

“Cjp,hcjp!”hugpzjsjqhYjrngkhUgqhejhajyohponyyhtxsjhasnbeojgjqhzejg,
lnppngbhent,hejhajyohznoehenphynmphoejhqscgjpphxahenphisxoejs’phplng
ugqhpuzhfyxpjhoxhenthenphinbhjcjp,ha yyhxahuhposugbjhynbeok

Uhajzhzjjlphijaxsj,hLxgpougonghYjrngheuqhzsnoojghoxhenphisxoejshoeuo
oesx behoejhpuyjhxahoejhptuyyhmusohxahoejhmsxmjsoc,hoeuoheuqhsjtungjq
 gqnrnqjq,hoejsjhzuphuhp thxahuix ohozxhoex pugqhsx iyjphoxhfxtjhoxhent
uphenphpeusjk

Gnlxyuchpunqhoeuohejheuqhfxtjhgxzhoxhouljhoenphtxgjchugq,hzeuohzuphtxsj
ntmxsougo,hoxhpouchuhzenyjhnghoejhxyqhgjpo,hoxhbjohnghox fehznoehoej
jusoe,hpxhuphoxhsjgjzhenphposjgboehynljhoejhejsxjphxahxyqhaxshoejhzxsl
oeuohyuchijaxsjhentkhNghpmnojhxahenphjvubbjsuojqhpoxxm,hugqhoej
jtufnuonxghoeuohzuphpxhposnlngbhasxthenphejnbeo,henphtxrjtjgophzjsjhup
sumnqhugqhuis mohuphjrjskhYjrnghyjqhenthngoxhenphpo qck

Enphisxoejshqsjppjqhznoehmusonf yushfusj—uhoengbhejhgjrjsh pjqhox
qx—fxtijqhenphpfugoc,hyuglheuns,hugq,hptnyngb,hzjgoh mpounspk

Ejhzuphnghoejhtxpohuaajfonxguojhugqhbxxq-e txsjqhtxxq,h. pohuphYjrng
xaojghsjtjtijsjqhenthnghfenyqexxqkhEjhjrjghsjajssjqhoxhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehznoex ohsugfxskhZejghejhpuzhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hejhtuqjh.xljp
znoehejshugqhupljqhuaojshoejhxyqhpjsrugopkhOejhgjzphxahoejhqjuoehxa
MusajghQjgnpnofehtuqjhuhmunga yhntmsjppnxghxghentkhUhyxxlhxahajus
fsxppjqhenphaufj,hi ohejhsjbungjqhenphpjsjgnochnttjqnuojyck

“Xahfx spjhejhzuphw nojhxyq,”hejhpunq,hugqhfeugbjqhoejhp i.jfokh“Zjyy,
N’yyhpmjgqhuhtxgoehxshozxhznoehcx ,hugqhoejghN’thxaahoxhTxpfxzkhQxhcx 
lgxz,hTculxrheuphmsxtnpjqhtjhuhmyufjhoejsj,hugqhN’thbxngbhngoxhoej
pjsrnfjkhGxzhN’thbxngbhoxhussugbjhtchynajhw nojhqnaajsjgoyc,”hejhzjgo
xgkh“Cx hlgxzhNhbxohsnqhxahoeuohzxtugk”

“TuscuhGnlxyujrgu?hZec,hzeuohaxs?”

“Xe,hpejhzuphuhexssnqhzxtug!hPejhfu pjqhtjhuyyhpxsophxahzxssnjpk”hI o
ejhqnqhgxohpuchzeuohoejhuggxcugfjphzjsjkhEjhfx yqhgxohpuchoeuohejheuq
fupohxaahTuscuhGnlxyujrguhijfu pjhoejhojuhzuphzjul,hugq,huixrjhuyy,
ijfu pjhpejhzx yqhyxxlhuaojshent,huphoex behejhzjsjhughngruynqk

“Ijpnqjp,hNhzugohoxho sghxrjshuhgjzhyjuahfxtmyjojychgxzkhN’rjhqxgj
pnyychoengbp,hxahfx spj,hynljhjrjscxgjhjypj,hi ohtxgjc’phoejhyupo
fxgpnqjsuonxg;hNhqxg’ohsjbsjohnokhPxhyxgbhuphoejsj’phejuyoe,hugqhtc
ejuyoe,hoeuglhBxq,hnphw nojhsjpoxsjqk”

Yjrnghynpojgjqhugqhsufljqhenphisungp,hi ohfx yqhoenglhxahgxoengbhox
puckhGnlxyuchmsxiuiychajyohoejhputj;hejhijbughw jponxgngbhenphisxoejs
uix ohenphuaaunsp;hugqhYjrnghzuphbyuqhoxhouylhuix ohentpjya,hijfu pj
oejghejhfx yqhpmjulhznoex ohecmxfsnpckhEjhoxyqhenphisxoejshxahenphmyugp
ugqhenphqxngbpk

Enphisxoejshynpojgjq,hi ohjrnqjgoychejhzuphgxohngojsjpojqhichnok

Oejpjhozxhtjghzjsjhpxhulng,hpxhgjushjufehxoejs,hoeuohoejhpynbeojpo
bjpo sj,hoejhoxgjhxahrxnfj,hoxyqhixoehtxsjhoeughfx yqhijhpunqhnghzxsqpk

Ixoehxahoejthgxzheuqhxgychxgjhoex beo—oejhnyygjpphxahGnlxyuchugqhoej
gjusgjpphxahenphqjuoe—zenfehponayjqhuyyhjypjkhI ohgjnoejshxahoejthqusjq
oxhpmjulhxahno,hugqhpxhzeuojrjshoejchpunq—gxoh oojsngbhoejhxgjhoex beo
oeuohanyyjqhoejnshtngqp—zuphuyyhauypjexxqkhGjrjsheuqhYjrnghijjghpxhbyuq
zejghoejhjrjgngbhzuphxrjshugqhnohzuphontjhoxhbxhoxhijqkhGjrjshznoehugc
x opnqjhmjspxg,hgjrjshxghugchxaanfnuyhrnpnoheuqhejhijjghpxh gguo suy
ugqhauypjhuphejhzuphoeuohjrjgngbkhUgqhoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahoenp
 gguo suygjpp,hugqhoejhsjtxspjhejhajyohuohno,htuqjhenthjrjghtxsj
 gguo suykhEjhzugojqhoxhzjjmhxrjshenphqcngb,hqjusychyxrjqhisxoejs,hugq
ejheuqhoxhynpojghugqhljjmhxghouylngbhxahexzhejhtjugohoxhynrjk

Uphoejhex pjhzuphqutm,hugqhxgychxgjhijqsxxtheuqhijjghljmohejuojq,hYjrng
m ohenphisxoejshoxhpyjjmhnghenphxzghijqsxxthijengqhuhpfsjjgk

Enphisxoejshbxohngoxhijq,hugqhzejoejshejhpyjmohxshqnqhgxohpyjjm,hoxppjq
uix ohynljhuhpnflhtug,hfx bejq,hugqhzejghejhfx yqhgxohbjohenphoesxuo
fyjus,ht tiyjqhpxtjoengbkhPxtjontjphzejghenphisjuoengbhzuphmunga y,hej
punq,h“Xe,htchBxq!”hPxtjontjphzejghejhzuphfexlngbhejht oojsjqhugbsnyc,
“Ue,hoejhqjrny!”hYjrnghfx yqhgxohpyjjmhaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,hejusngbhentk
Enphoex beophzjsjhxahoejhtxpohrusnx p,hi ohoejhjgqhxahuyyhenphoex beop
zuphoejhputj—qjuoekhQjuoe,hoejhngjrnouiyjhjgqhxahuyy,haxshoejhanspo
ontjhmsjpjgojqhnopjyahoxhenthznoehnssjpnponiyjhaxsfjkhUgqhqjuoe,hzenfe
zuphejsjhnghoenphyxrjqhisxoejs,hbsxugngbheuyahupyjjmhugqhasxtheuino
fuyyngbhznoex ohqnpongfonxghxghBxqhugqhoejhqjrny,hzuphgxohpxhsjtxojhup
noheuqhenoejsoxhpjjtjqhoxhentkhNohzuphnghentpjyahoxx,hejhajyohoeuokhNa
gxohoxquc,hoxtxssxz,hnahgxohoxtxssxz,hnghoensochcjusp,hzupg’ohnohuyy
oejhputj!hUgqhzeuohzuphoenphngjrnouiyjhqjuoe—ejhqnqhgxohlgxz,heuqhgjrjs
oex beohuix ohno,hugqhzeuohzuphtxsj,heuqhgxohoejhmxzjs,heuqhgxohoej
fx subjhoxhoenglhuix ohnok

“Nhzxsl,hNhzugohoxhqxhpxtjoengb,hi ohNheuqhaxsbxoojghnoht pohuyyhjgq;hN
euqhaxsbxoojg—qjuoek”

Ejhpuohxghenphijqhnghoejhquslgjpp,hfsx fejqh m,he bbngbhenphlgjjp,hugq
exyqngbhenphisjuoehasxthoejhposunghxahoex beo,hejhmxgqjsjqkhI ohoej
txsjhngojgpjychejhoex beo,hoejhfyjusjshnohijfutjhoxhenthoeuohnohzup
ngq inouiychpx,hoeuohnghsjuynoc,hyxxlngbh mxghynaj,hejheuqhaxsbxoojg
xgjhynooyjhaufo—oeuohqjuoehznyyhfxtj,hugqhuyyhjgqp;hoeuohgxoengbhzup
jrjghzxsoehijbnggngb,hugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhejymngbhnohugczuckhCjp,hno
zuphuza y,hi ohnohzuphpxk

“I ohNhuthuynrjhponyykhGxzhzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?hzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?”hej
punqhnghqjpmunskhEjhynbeojqhuhfugqyj,hbxoh mhfu onx pychugqhzjgohoxhoej
yxxlngb-byupp,hugqhijbughyxxlngbhuohenphaufjhugqheunskhCjp,hoejsjhzjsj
bsucheunsphuix ohenphojtmyjpkhEjhxmjgjqhenphtx oekhEnphiuflhojjoehzjsj
ijbnggngbhoxhqjfuckhEjhiusjqhenpht pf yushustpkhCjp,hoejsjhzuphposjgboe
nghoejtkhI ohGnlxyuc,hzexhyuchoejsjhisjuoengbhznoehzeuohzuphyjaohxa
y gbp,heuqheuqhuhposxgb,hejuyoechixqchoxxkhUgqhp qqjgychejhsjfuyyjqhexz
oejch pjqhoxhbxhoxhijqhoxbjoejshuphfenyqsjg,hugqhexzhoejchxgychzunojq
onyyhAcxqxshIxbqugnofehzuphx ohxahoejhsxxthoxhayngbhmnyyxzphuohjufe
xoejshugqhyu be,hyu behnssjmsjppniyc,hpxhoeuohjrjghoejnshuzjhxahAcxqxs
Ixbqugnofehfx yqhgxohfejflhoejhjaajsrjpfngb,hxrjsisnttngbhpjgpjhxahynaj
ugqheummngjppkh“Ugqhgxzhoeuohijgo,hexyyxzhfejpohkkkhugqhN,hgxohlgxzngb
zeuohznyyhijfxtjhxahtj,hxshzejsjaxsjkkkk”

“Lkkkeu!hLkkkeu!hQutguonxg!hZechqxhcx hljjmhanqbjongb,hzechqxg’ohcx hbx
oxhpyjjm?”henphisxoejs’phrxnfjhfuyyjqhoxhentk

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohlgxz,hN’thgxohpyjjmck”

“Nheurjheuqhuhbxxqhpyjjm,hN’thgxohnghuhpzjuohgxzkh. pohpjj,hajjyhtc
penso;hno’phgxohzjo,hnphno?”

Yjrnghajyo,hznoeqsjzhijengqhoejhpfsjjg,hugqhm ohx ohoejhfugqyj,hi ohaxs
uhyxgbhzenyjhejhfx yqhgxohpyjjmkhOejhw jponxghexzhoxhynrjheuqheusqyc
ijb ghoxhbsxzhuhynooyjhfyjusjshoxhent,hzejghuhgjz,hngpxy iyjhw jponxg
msjpjgojqhnopjya—qjuoek

“Zec,hej’phqcngb—cjp,hej’yyhqnjhnghoejhpmsngb,hugqhexzhejymhent?hZeuo
fughNhpuchoxhent?hZeuohqxhNhlgxzhuix ohno?hN’qhjrjghaxsbxoojghoeuohno
zuphuohuyyk”


Feumojsh32

Yjrngheuqhyxgbhijaxsjhtuqjhoejhxipjsruonxghoeuohzejghxgjhnp
 gfxtaxsouiyjhznoehmjxmyjhasxthoejnshijngbhjvfjppnrjychutjguiyjhugq
tjjl,hxgjhnphumohrjschpxxghuaojshoxhangqhoengbphngoxyjsuiyjhasxthoejns
ox fengjpphugqhnssnouinynockhEjhajyohoeuohoenphzuphexzhnohzx yqhijhznoe
enphisxoejskhUgqhenphisxoejshGnlxyuc’phbjgoyjgjpphqnqhnghaufohgxohyupo
x ohaxshyxgbkhOejhrjschgjvohtxsgngbhejhijbughoxhijhnssnouiyj,hugq
pjjtjqhqxngbhenphijpohoxhangqhau yohznoehenphisxoejs,huoouflngbhenthxg
enphojgqjsjpohmxngopk

Yjrnghajyohentpjyahoxhiyutj,hugqhfx yqhgxohpjohoengbphsnbeokhEjhajyo
oeuohnahoejcheuqhixoehgxohljmoh mhummjusugfjp,hi oheuqhpmxljg,huphnohnp
fuyyjq,hasxthoejhejuso—oeuohnphoxhpuc,heuqhpunqhxgych. pohzeuohoejc
zjsjhoenglngbhugqhajjyngb—oejchzx yqhpntmycheurjhyxxljqhngoxhjufe
xoejs’phaufjp,hugqhLxgpougonghfx yqhxgycheurjhpunq,h“Cx ’sjhqcngb,
cx ’sjhqcngb!”hugqhGnlxyuchfx yqhxgycheurjhugpzjsjq,h“NhlgxzhN’thqcngb,
i ohN’thuasunq,hN’thuasunq,hN’thuasunq!”hUgqhoejchfx yqheurjhpunq
gxoengbhtxsj,hnahoejcheuqhpunqhxgychzeuohzuphnghoejnshejusopkhI ohynaj
ynljhoeuohzuphntmxppniyj,hugqhpxhLxgpougonghosnjqhoxhqxhzeuohejheuq
ijjghoscngbhoxhqxhuyyhenphynaj,hugqhgjrjshfx yqhyjusghoxhqx,hoex be,hup
aushuphejhfx yqhxipjsrj,htugchmjxmyjhlgjzhpxhzjyyhexzhoxhqxhno,hugq
znoex ohnohoejsjhzuphgxhynrngbhuohuyykhEjhosnjqhoxhpuchzeuohejhzuphgxo
oenglngb,hi ohejhajyohfxgong uyychoeuohnoheuqhuhsngbhxahauypjexxq,hoeuo
enphisxoejshqjojfojqhenthnghno,hugqhzuphjvupmjsuojqhuohnok

OejhoensqhquchGnlxyuchngq fjqhenphisxoejshoxhjvmyunghenphmyughoxhent
ubung,hugqhijbughgxohtjsjychuoouflngbhno,hi ohngojgonxguyychfxgax gqngb
nohznoehfxtt gnptk

“Cx ’rjhpntmychixssxzjqhughnqjuhoeuo’phgxohcx shxzg,hi ohcx ’rj
qnpoxsojqhno,hugqhusjhoscngbhoxhummychnohzejsjhno’phgxohummynfuiyjk”

“I ohNhojyyhcx hno’phgxoengbhoxhqxhznoehnokhOejchqjgchoejh. ponfjhxa
msxmjsoc,hxahfumnouy,hxahngejsnougfj,hzenyjhNhqxhgxohqjgchoenphfenja
pont y pk”h(Yjrnghajyohqnpb pojqhentpjyahuoh pngbhp fehjvmsjppnxgp,hi o
jrjshpngfjhejheuqhijjghjgbsxppjqhichenphzxsl,hejheuqh gfxgpfnx pychfxtj
txsjhugqhtxsjhasjw jgoychoxh pjhzxsqphgxohS ppnugk)h“UyyhNhzugohnphox
sjb yuojhyuixsk”

“Zenfehtjugp,hcx ’rjhixssxzjqhughnqju,hposnmmjqhnohxahuyyhoeuohburjhno
nophaxsfj,hugqhzugohoxhtuljhijynjrjhoeuohno’phpxtjoengbhgjz,”hpunq
Gnlxyuc,hugbsnycho bbngbhuohenphgjflonjk

“I ohtchnqjuheuphgxoengbhnghfxttxgkkkk”

“Oeuo,hugczuc,”hpunqhGnlxyuchYjrng,hznoehughnsxgnfuyhptnyj,henphjcjp
ayupengbhtuynbgugoyc,h“euphoejhfeusthxa—zeuo’phxgjhoxhfuyy
no?—bjxtjosnfuyhpcttjosc,hxahfyjusgjpp,hxahqjangnojgjppkhNohtuchijhu
 oxmnukhI ohnahxgfjhxgjhuyyxzphoejhmxppninynochxahtulngbhxahuyyhoej
mupohuh_oui yuhsupu_—gxhmsxmjsoc,hgxhautnyc—oejghyuixshzx yqhxsbugndj
nopjyakhI ohcx hbunghgxoengbkkkk”

“Zechqxhcx htnvhoengbph m?hN’rjhgjrjshijjghuhfxtt gnpok”

“I ohNheurj,hugqhNhfxgpnqjshno’phmsjtuo sj,hi ohsuonxguy,hugqhnoheuphu
a o sj,h. pohynljhFesnponugnochnghnophanspohubjpk”

“UyyhoeuohNhtungounghnphoeuohoejhyuixshaxsfjhx beohoxhijhngrjponbuojq
asxthoejhmxngohxahrnjzhxahguo suyhpfnjgfj;hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hnohx beohox
ijhpo qnjq,hnophw uynonjphupfjsoungjqkkkk”

“I ohoeuo’ph oojshzupojhxahontjkhOeuohaxsfjhangqphuhfjsounghaxsthxa
ufonrnochxahnopjya,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhpoubjhxahnophqjrjyxmtjgokhOejsj
eurjhijjghpyurjphanspohjrjsczejsj,hoejghtjoucjsp;hugqhzjheurjhoej
euya-fsxmhpcpojt,hsjgo,hugqhquchyuixsjspkhZeuohusjhcx hoscngbhoxhangq?”

Yjrnghp qqjgychyxpohenphojtmjshuohoejpjhzxsqp,hijfu pjhuohoejhixooxthxa
enphejusohejhzuphuasunqhoeuohnohzuphos j—os jhoeuohejhzuphoscngbhox
exyqhoejhiuyugfjhjrjghijozjjghfxtt gnpthugqhoejhautnynushaxstp,hugq
oeuohoenphzupheusqychmxppniyjk

“Nhuthoscngbhoxhangqhtjugphxahzxslngbhmsxq fonrjychaxshtcpjyahugqhaxs
oejhyuixsjspkhNhzugohoxhxsbugndjkkkk”hejhugpzjsjqhexoyck

“Cx hqxg’ohzugohoxhxsbugndjhugcoengb;hno’phpntmych. pohuphcx ’rjhijjg
uyyhcx shynaj,hoeuohcx hzugohoxhijhxsnbnguyhoxhmxpjhuphgxohjvmyxnongb
oejhmjupugophpntmyc,hi ohznoehpxtjhnqjuhnghrnjzk”

“Xe,huyyhsnbeo,hoeuo’phzeuohcx hoengl—ugqhyjohtjhuyxgj!”hugpzjsjq
Yjrng,hajjyngbhoejht pfyjphxahenphyjaohfejjlhoznofengbh gfxgosxyyuiyck

“Cx ’rjhgjrjsheuq,hugqhgjrjsheurj,hfxgrnfonxgp;huyyhcx hzugohnphox
myjupjhcx shrugnock”

“Xe,hrjschzjyy;hoejghyjohtjhuyxgj!”

“UgqhNhznyyhyjohcx huyxgj!hugqhno’phenbehontjhNhqnq,hugqhbxhoxhoej
qjrnyhznoehcx !hugqhN’thrjschpxsschNhjrjshfutj!”

NghpmnojhxahuyyhYjrng’phjaaxsophoxhpxxoejhenphisxoejshuaojszusqp,
Gnlxyuchzx yqhynpojghoxhgxoengbhejhpunq,hqjfyusngbhoeuohnohzuphijoojs
oxhmuso,hugqhLxgpougonghpuzhoeuohnohpntmychzuphoeuohynajhzuph gijusuiyj
oxhentk

Gnlxyuchzuph. pohbjoongbhsjuqchoxhbx,hzejghLxgpougonghzjgohnghoxhent
ubunghugqhijbbjqhent,hsuoejsh gguo suyyc,hoxhaxsbnrjhenthnahejheuqhe so
enphajjyngbphnghugchzuck

“Ue,hbjgjsxpnoc!”hpunqhGnlxyuc,hugqhejhptnyjqkh“Nahcx hzugohoxhij
snbeo,hNhfughbnrjhcx hoeuohpuonpaufonxgkhCx ’sjhnghoejhsnbeo;hi ohN’t
bxngbhuyyhoejhputjk”

Nohzuphxgych. pohuohmusongbhoeuohGnlxyuchlnppjqhent,hugqhpunq,hyxxlngb
znoehp qqjghposugbjgjpphugqhpjsnx pgjpphuohenphisxoejs:

“Ugczuc,hqxg’ohsjtjtijshjrnyhubungpohtj,hLxpocu!”hugqhenphrxnfj
w nrjsjqkhOejpjhzjsjhoejhxgychzxsqphoeuoheuqhijjghpmxljghpngfjsjyc
ijozjjghoejtkhYjrnghlgjzhoeuohoexpjhzxsqphtjugo,h“Cx hpjj,hugqhcx 
lgxz,hoeuohN’thnghuhiuqhzuc,hugqhtucijhzjhpeuyyhgxohpjjhjufehxoejs
ubungk”hYjrnghlgjzhoenp,hugqhoejhojusphb pejqhasxthenphjcjpkhEjhlnppjq
enphisxoejshxgfjhtxsj,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohpmjul,hugqhlgjzhgxohzeuohox
puck

Oesjjhqucphuaojshenphisxoejs’phqjmuso sj,hYjrnghoxxhpjohxaahaxshenp
axsjnbghox skhEummjgngbhoxhtjjohPeofejsiuoplc,hLnooc’phfx png,hnghoej
sunyzuchosung,hYjrnghbsjuoychupoxgnpejqhenthichenphqjmsjppnxgk

“Zeuo’phoejhtuoojshznoehcx ?”hPeofejsiuoplchupljqhentk

“Xe,hgxoengb;hoejsj’phgxoht feheummngjpphnghynajk”

“Gxoht fe?hCx hfxtjhznoehtjhoxhMusnphngpojuqhxahoxhT yeu pjgkhCx hpeuyy
pjjhexzhoxhijheummck”

“Gx,hN’rjhqxgjhznoehnohuyykhNo’phontjhNhzuphqjuqk”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phuhbxxqhxgj!”hpunqhPeofejsiuoplc,hyu bengb;h“zec,hN’thxgyc
. pohbjoongbhsjuqchoxhijbngk”

“Cjp,hNhoex beohoejhputjhgxohyxgbhubx,hi ohgxzhNhlgxzhNhpeuyyhpxxghij
qjuqk”

Yjrnghpunqhzeuohejheuqhbjg ngjychijjghoenglngbhxahyuojkhEjhpuzhgxoengb
i ohqjuoehxshoejhuqrugfjhoxzusqphqjuoehnghjrjscoengbkhI ohenphfejsnpejq
pfejtjhxgychjgbsxppjqhenthoejhtxsjkhYnajheuqhoxhijhbxohoesx behpxtjexz
onyyhqjuoehqnqhfxtjkhQuslgjppheuqhauyyjgh mxghjrjscoengbhaxshent;hi o
. pohijfu pjhxahoenphquslgjpphejhajyohoeuohoejhxgjhb nqngbhfy jhnghoej
quslgjpphzuphenphzxsl,hugqhejhfy ofejqhnohugqhfy gbhoxhnohznoehuyyhenp
posjgboek






MUSOhAX S


Feumojsh1

OejhLusjgngp,he piugqhugqhznaj,hfxgong jqhynrngbhnghoejhputjhex pj,htjo
jrjschquc,hi ohzjsjhfxtmyjojhposugbjsphoxhxgjhugxoejskhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehtuqjhnohuhs yjhoxhpjjhenphznajhjrjschquc,hpxhoeuohoej
pjsrugophtnbeoheurjhgxhbsx gqphaxshp mmxpnonxgp,hi ohurxnqjqhqngngbhuo
extjkhRsxgplchzuphgjrjshuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phex pj,hi ohUgguhpuz
enthuzuchasxthextj,hugqhejshe piugqhzuphuzusjhxahnok

Oejhmxpnonxghzuphxgjhxahtnpjschaxshuyyhoesjj;hugqhgxohxgjhxahoejthzx yq
eurjhijjghjw uyhoxhjgq sngbhoenphmxpnonxghaxshuhpngbyjhquc,hnahnoheuq
gxohijjghaxshoejhjvmjfouonxghoeuohnohzx yqhfeugbj,hoeuohnohzuphtjsjychu
ojtmxsuschmunga yhxsqjuyhzenfehzx yqhmupphxrjskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
exmjqhoeuohoenphmuppnxghzx yqhmupp,huphjrjscoengbhqxjphmupp,hoeuo
jrjscxgjhzx yqhaxsbjohuix ohno,hugqhenphgutjhzx yqhsjtungh gp yynjqk
Uggu,hxghzexthoejhmxpnonxghqjmjgqjq,hugqhaxshzexthnohzuphtxsjhtnpjsuiyj
oeughaxshugcxgj,hjgq sjqhnohijfu pjhpejhgxohtjsjychexmjq,hi ohanstyc
ijynjrjq,hoeuohnohzx yqhuyyhrjschpxxghijhpjooyjqhugqhfxtjhsnbeokhPej
euqhgxohoejhyjupohnqjuhzeuohzx yqhpjooyjhoejhmxpnonxg,hi ohpejhanstyc
ijynjrjqhoeuohpxtjoengbhzx yqhrjschpxxgho sgh mhgxzkhRsxgplc,hubungpo
enphxzghznyyhxshznpejp,haxyyxzjqhejshyjuq,hexmjqhoxxhoeuohpxtjoengb,
umusohasxthenphxzghufonxg,hzx yqhijhp sjhoxhpxyrjhuyyhqnaanf yonjpk

NghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhzngojshRsxgplchpmjgohuhrjschonsjpxtjhzjjlkhU
axsjnbghmsngfj,hzexheuqhfxtjhxghuhrnpnohoxhMjojspi sb,hzuphm oh gqjs
enphfeusbj,hugqhejheuqhoxhpexzhenthoejhpnbeophzxsoehpjjngbkhRsxgplchzup
xahqnpongb npejqhummjusugfj;hejhmxppjppjq,htxsjxrjs,hoejhusohxa
ijeurngbhznoehsjpmjfoa yhqnbgnoc,hugqhzuph pjqhoxheurngbhoxhqxhznoe
p fehbsugqhmjspxgubjp—oeuohzuphexzhejhfutjhoxhijhm ohnghfeusbjhxahoej
msngfjkhI ohejhajyohenphq onjphrjschnslpxtjkhOejhmsngfjhzuphugvnx phox
tnpphgxoengbhxahzenfehejhzx yqhijhupljqhuohextj,heuqhejhpjjghoeuohng
S ppnu?hUgqhxghenphxzghuffx gohejhzuphugvnx phoxhjg.xchoxhoejh otxpo
uyyhS ppnughaxstphxahut pjtjgokhRsxgplchzuphxiynbjqhoxhijhenphb nqjhng
puonpacngbhixoehoejpjhngfynguonxgpkhOejhtxsgngbphoejchpmjgohqsnrngbhox
yxxlhuohmyufjphxahngojsjpo;hoejhjrjgngbphoejchmuppjqhjg.xcngbhoej
guonxguyhjgojsoungtjgopkhOejhmsngfjhsj.xnfjqhnghejuyoehjvfjmonxguyhjrjg
utxgbhmsngfjpkhIchbctguponfphugqhfusja yhuoojgonxghoxhenphejuyoehejheuq
isx beohentpjyahoxhp fehuhmxngohoeuohnghpmnojhxahenphjvfjpphnghmyjup sj
ejhyxxljqhuphasjpehuphuhinbhbyxppchbsjjghQ ofehf f tijskhOejhmsngfjheuq
osurjyjqhuhbsjuohqjuy,hugqhfxgpnqjsjqhxgjhxahoejhfenjahuqrugoubjphxa
txqjsghaufnynonjphxahfxtt gnfuonxghzuphoejhuffjppninynochxahoej
myjup sjphxahuyyhguonxgpk

EjheuqhijjghnghPmung,hugqhoejsjheuqhngq ybjqhnghpjsjguqjphugqheuqhtuqj
asnjgqphznoehuhPmugnpehbnsyhzexhmyucjqhoejhtugqxyngkhNghPznodjsyugqhej
euqhlnyyjqhfeutxnpkhNghJgbyugqhejheuqhbuyyxmjqhnghuhsjqhfxuohxrjs
ejqbjphugqhlnyyjqhozxhe gqsjqhmejupugophaxshuhijokhNghO sljchejheuqhbxo
ngoxhuheusjt;hnghNgqnuhejheuqhe gojqhxghughjyjmeugo,hugqhgxzhnghS ppnu
ejhznpejqhoxhoupojhuyyhoejhpmjfnuyychS ppnughaxstphxahmyjup sjk

Rsxgplc,hzexhzup,huphnohzjsj,hfenjahtupojshxahoejhfjsjtxgnjphoxhent,
zuphuohbsjuohmungphoxhussugbjhuyyhoejhS ppnughut pjtjgophp bbjpojqhic
rusnx phmjspxgphoxhoejhmsngfjkhOejcheuqhsufjhexspjp,hugqhS ppnug
mugfuljphugqhijushe gophugqhoesjj-exspjhpyjqbjp,hugqhbcmpnjphugq
qsnglngbhajupop,hznoehoejhS ppnughuffxtmugntjgohxahisxljghfsxfljsckhUgq
oejhmsngfjhznoehp smsnpngbhjupjhajyyhnghznoehoejhS ppnughpmnsno,
ptupejqhosucpha yyhxahfsxfljsc,hpuohznoehuhbcmpchbnsyhxghenphlgjj,hugq
pjjtjqhoxhijhuplngb—zeuohtxsj,hugqhqxjphoejhzexyjhS ppnughpmnsno
fxgpnpohngh. pohoenp?

Nghsjuynoc,hxahuyyhoejhS ppnughjgojsoungtjgophoejhmsngfjhynljqhijpo
Asjgfehufosjppjphugqhiuyyjohqugfjsphugqhzenoj-pjuyhfeutmubgjkhRsxgplc
zuph pjqhoxhmsngfjp,hi o,hjnoejshijfu pjhejheuqhentpjyahfeugbjqhxa
yuoj,hxshoeuohejhzuphnghoxxhfyxpjhmsxvntnochoxhoejhmsngfj,hoeuohzjjl
pjjtjqhajusa yychzjusnpxtjhoxhentkhOejhzexyjhxahoeuohzjjlhej
jvmjsnjgfjqhuhpjgpuonxghp fehuphuhtughtnbeoheurjhpjohnghfeusbjhxahu
qugbjsx phtuqtug,huasunqhxahoejhtuqtug,hugqhuohoejhputjhontj,hasxt
ijngbhznoehent,hajusngbhaxshenphxzghsjupxgkhRsxgplchzuphfxgong uyyc
fxgpfnx phxahoejhgjfjppnochxahgjrjshaxshuhpjfxgqhsjyuvngbhoejhoxgjhxa
pojsghxaanfnuyhsjpmjfoa ygjpp,hoeuohejhtnbeohgxohentpjyahijhngp yojqk
Oejhmsngfj’phtuggjshxahosjuongbhoejhrjschmjxmyjhzex,hoxhRsxgplc’p
p smsnpj,hzjsjhsjuqchoxhqjpfjgqhoxhugchqjmoephoxhmsxrnqjhenthznoe
S ppnughut pjtjgop,hzuphfxgojtmo x pkhEnphfsnonfnptphxahS ppnughzxtjg,
zexthejhznpejqhoxhpo qc,htxsjhoeughxgfjhtuqjhRsxgplchfsntpxghznoe
ngqnbguonxgkhOejhfenjahsjupxghzechoejhmsngfjhzuphpxhmusonf yusyc
qnpubsjjuiyjhoxhRsxgplchzuphoeuohejhfx yqhgxohejymhpjjngbhentpjyahng
entkhUgqhzeuohejhpuzhnghoenphtnssxshqnqhgxohbsuonachenphpjya-jpojjtkhEj
zuphuhrjschpo mnqhugqhrjschpjya-puonpanjqhugqhrjschejuyoechugqhrjsc
zjyy-zupejqhtug,hugqhgxoengbhjypjkhEjhzuphuhbjgoyjtug—oeuohzuphos j,
ugqhRsxgplchfx yqhgxohqjgchnokhEjhzuphjw uiyjhugqhgxohfsngbngbhznoehenp
p mjsnxsp,hzuphasjjhugqhngbsuonuongbhnghenphijeurnxshznoehenphjw uyp,
ugqhzuphfxgojtmo x pychngq ybjgohznoehenphngajsnxspkhRsxgplchzup
entpjyahoejhputj,hugqhsjbusqjqhnohuphuhbsjuohtjsnohoxhijhpxkhI ohaxs
oenphmsngfjhejhzuphughngajsnxs,hugqhenphfxgojtmo x phugqhngq ybjgo
uoono qjhoxhenthsjrxyojqhentk

“Isungyjpphijja!hfughNhijhynljhoeuo?”hejhoex beok

Ijhoeuohuphnohtnbeo,hzejg,hxghoejhpjrjgoehquc,hejhmusojqhasxthoej
msngfj,hzexhzuphpousongbhaxshTxpfxz,hugqhsjfjnrjqhenphoeuglp,hejhzup
eummchoxhijhsnqhxahenph gfxtaxsouiyjhmxpnonxghugqhoejh gmyjupugo
sjayjfonxghxahentpjyakhEjhpunqhbxxq-icjhoxhenthuohoejhpouonxghxghoejns
sjo sghasxthuhijushe go,huohzenfehoejcheuqheuqhuhqnpmyuchxahS ppnug
msxzjpphljmoh mhuyyhgnbeok


Feumojsh2

Zejghejhbxohextj,hRsxgplchax gqhoejsjhuhgxojhasxthUggukhPejhzsxoj,h“N
uthnyyhugqh geummckhNhfuggxohfxtjhx o,hi ohNhfuggxohbxhxghyxgbjs
znoex ohpjjngbhcx khFxtjhnghoenphjrjgngbkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbxjphox
oejhfx gfnyhuohpjrjghugqhznyyhijhoejsjhonyyhojgk”hOenglngbhaxshug
ngpougohxahoejhposugbjgjpphxahejshinqqngbhenthfxtjhposunbeohoxhejs,hng
pmnojhxahejshe piugq’phngpnpongbhxghejshgxohsjfjnrngbhent,hejhqjfnqjq
oxhbxk

Rsxgplcheuqhoeuohzngojshbxohenphmsxtxonxg,hzuphgxzhuhfxyxgjy,heuqhyjao
oejhsjbntjgouyhw usojsp,hugqhzuphynrngbhuyxgjkhUaojsheurngbhpxtjhy gfe,
ejhyuchqxzghxghoejhpxauhnttjqnuojyc,hugqhnghanrjhtng ojphtjtxsnjphxa
oejhenqjx phpfjgjphejheuqhznogjppjqhq sngbhoejhyupohajzhqucphzjsj
fxga pjqhoxbjoejshugqh.xngjqhxghoxhuhtjgouyhntubjhxahUgguhugqhxahoej
mjupugohzexheuqhmyucjqhughntmxsougohmusohnghoejhijushe go,hugqhRsxgplc
ajyyhupyjjmkhEjhzuljqh mhnghoejhqusl,hosjtiyngbhznoehexssxs,hugqhtuqj
eupojhoxhynbeohuhfugqyjkh“Zeuohzuphno?hZeuo?hZeuohzuphoejhqsjuqa y
oengbhNhqsjutjq?hCjp,hcjp;hNhoenglhuhynooyjhqnsochtughznoehuhqnpejrjyjq
ijusqhzuphpoxxmngbhqxzghqxngbhpxtjoengb,hugqhuyyhxahuhp qqjghejhijbug
pucngbhpxtjhposugbjhzxsqphnghAsjgfekhCjp,hoejsjhzuphgxoengbhjypjhnghoej
qsjut,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakh“I ohzechzuphnohpxhuza y?”hEjhrnrnqyc
sjfuyyjqhoejhmjupugohubunghugqhoexpjhngfxtmsjejgpniyjhAsjgfehzxsqphoej
mjupugoheuqh oojsjq,hugqhuhfenyyhxahexssxshsughqxzghenphpmngjk

“Zeuohgxgpjgpj!”hoex beohRsxgplc,hugqhbyugfjqhuohenphzuofek

Nohzupheuya-mupohjnbeohuysjuqckhEjhsugbh mhenphpjsrugo,hqsjppjqhng
eupoj,hugqhzjgohx ohxgoxhoejhpojmp,hfxtmyjojychaxsbjoongbhoejhqsjuthugq
xgychzxssnjqhuohijngbhyuojkhUphejhqsxrjh mhoxhoejhLusjgngp’hjgosugfjhej
yxxljqhuohenphzuofehugqhpuzhnohzuphojghtng ojphoxhgngjkhUhenbe,hgussxz
fussnubjhznoehuhmunshxahbsucphzuphpougqngbhuohoejhjgosugfjkhEj
sjfxbgndjqhUggu’phfussnubjkh“Pejhnphfxtngbhoxhtj,”hoex beohRsxgplc,
“ugqhijoojshpejhpex yqkhNhqxg’ohynljhbxngbhngoxhoeuohex pjkhI ohgx
tuoojs;hNhfug’ohenqjhtcpjya,”hejhoex beo,hugqhznoehoeuohtuggjshmjf ynus
oxhenthasxthfenyqexxq,huphxahuhtughzexheuphgxoengbhoxhijhupeutjqhxa,
Rsxgplchbxohx ohxahenphpyjqbjhugqhzjgohoxhoejhqxxskhOejhqxxshxmjgjq,
ugqhoejheuyy-mxsojshznoehuhs bhxghenphusthfuyyjqhoejhfussnubjkhRsxgplc,
oex behejhqnqhgxoh p uyychgxonfjhqjounyp,hgxonfjqhuohoenphtxtjgohoej
utudjqhjvmsjppnxghznoehzenfehoejhmxsojshbyugfjqhuohentkhNghoejhrjsc
qxxszuchRsxgplchuytxpohsugh mhubungpohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhOejhbup
.johoesjzhnopha yyhynbeohxghoejhiyxxqyjpp,hp gljghaufjh gqjshoejhiyufl
euohugqhxghoejhzenojhfsuruo,hisnyynugohubungpohoejhijurjshxahoejhfxuok
Lusjgng’phanvjq,hq yyhjcjphzjsjhaupojgjqh mxghRsxgplc’phaufjkhRsxgplc
ixzjq,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hfejzngbhenphynmp,hynaojqhenpheugqhox
enpheuohugqhzjgohxgkhRsxgplchpuzhenthznoex ohyxxlngbhsx gqhbjohngoxhoej
fussnubj,hmnflh mhoejhs bhugqhoejhxmjsu-byupphuohoejhzngqxzhugq
qnpummjuskhRsxgplchzjgohngoxhoejheuyykhEnphisxzphzjsjhpfxzyngb,hugqhenp
jcjphbyjutjqhznoehuhmsx qhugqhugbschynbeohnghoejtk

“Zeuohuhmxpnonxg!”hejhoex beokh“Nahejhzx yqhanbeo,hzx yqhpougqh mhaxs
enphexgxs,hNhfx yqhufo,hfx yqhjvmsjpphtchajjyngbp;hi ohoenphzjulgjpphxs
iupjgjppkkkkhEjhm ophtjhnghoejhmxpnonxghxahmyucngbhauypj,hzenfehNhgjrjs
tjugohugqhgjrjshtjughoxhqxk”

Rsxgplc’phnqjupheuqhfeugbjqhpngfjhoejhquchxahenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehUggu
nghoejhRsjqjhbusqjgkh gfxgpfnx pychcnjyqngbhoxhoejhzjulgjpphxahUggu—zex
euqhp ssjgqjsjqhejspjyah mhoxhenth oojsyc,hugqhpntmychyxxljqhoxhenthox
qjfnqjhejshauoj,hsjuqchoxhp itnohoxhugcoengb—ejheuqhyxgbhfjupjqhox
oenglhoeuohoejnshonjhtnbeohjgqhuphejheuqhoex beohoejgkhEnphutinonx p
myugpheuqhsjosjuojqhngoxhoejhiuflbsx gqhubung,hugqhajjyngbhoeuohejheuq
bxohx ohxahoeuohfnsfyjhxahufonrnochnghzenfehjrjscoengbhzuphqjangnoj,hej
euqhbnrjghentpjyahjgonsjychoxhenphmuppnxg,hugqhoeuohmuppnxghzuphingqngb
enthtxsjhugqhtxsjhfyxpjychoxhejsk

Ejhzuphponyyhnghoejheuyyhzejghejhfu beohoejhpx gqhxahejshsjosjuongb
axxopojmpkhEjhlgjzhpejheuqhijjghjvmjfongbhent,heuqhynpojgjqhaxshent,
ugqhzuphgxzhbxngbhiuflhoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

“Gx,”hpejhfsnjq,hxghpjjngbhent,hugqhuohoejhanspohpx gqhxahejshrxnfjhoej
ojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjpkh“Gx;hnahoengbphusjhoxhbxhxghynljhoenp,hoej
jgqhznyyhfxtjht fe,ht fehoxxhpxxgk”

“Zeuohnphno,hqjushxgj?”

“Zeuo?hN’rjhijjghzunongbhnghubxgchaxshughex s,hozxhex sphkkkhGx,hN
zxg’ohkkkhNhfug’ohw ussjyhznoehcx khXahfx spjhcx hfx yqg’ohfxtjkhGx,hN
zxg’ok”hPejhyunqhejshozxheugqphxghenphpex yqjsp,hugqhyxxljqhuhyxgb
zenyjhuohenthznoehuhmsxax gq,hmuppnxguoj,hugqhuohoejhputjhontj
pjusfengbhyxxlkhPejhzuphpo qcngbhenphaufjhoxhtuljh mhaxshoejhontjhpej
euqhgxohpjjghentkhPejhzup,hjrjschontjhpejhpuzhent,htulngbhoejhmnfo sj
xahenthnghejshntubnguonxgh(ngfxtmusuiychp mjsnxs,hntmxppniyjhng
sjuynoc)hanohznoehenthuphejhsjuyychzupk


Feumojsh3

“Cx htjohent?”hpejhupljq,hzejghoejcheuqhpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyjhnghoej
yutmynbeokh“Cx ’sjhm gnpejq,hcx hpjj,haxshijngbhyuojk”

“Cjp;hi ohexzhzuphno?hZupg’ohejhoxhijhuohoejhfx gfny?”

“Ejheuqhijjghugqhfxtjhiufl,hugqhzuphbxngbhx ohpxtjzejsjhubungkhI o
oeuo’phgxhtuoojskhQxg’ohouylhuix ohnokhZejsjheurjhcx hijjg?hZnoehoej
msngfjhponyy?”

PejhlgjzhjrjschqjounyhxahenphjvnpojgfjkhEjhzuphbxngbhoxhpuchoeuohejheuq
ijjgh mhuyyhgnbeohugqheuqhqsxmmjqhupyjjm,hi ohyxxlngbhuohejshoesnyyjq
ugqhsumo sx phaufj,hejhzuphupeutjqkhUgqhejhpunqhejheuqheuqhoxhbxhox
sjmxsohxghoejhmsngfj’phqjmuso sjk

“I ohno’phxrjshgxz?hEjhnphbxgj?”

“OeuglhBxqhno’phxrjs!hCx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhexzhngp aajsuiyjhno’phijjg
axshtjk”

“Zechpx?hNpg’ohnohoejhynajhuyyhxahcx ,huyyhcx gbhtjg,huyzucphyjuq?”hpej
punq,hlgnoongbhejshisxzp;hugqhoulngbh mhoejhfsxfejohzxslhoeuohzuphycngb
xghoejhouiyj,hpejhijbughqsuzngbhoejhexxlhx ohxahno,hznoex ohyxxlngbhuo
Rsxgplck

“Nhburjhoeuohynajh mhyxgbhubx,”hpunqhej,hzxgqjsngbhuohoejhfeugbjhnghejs
aufj,hugqhoscngbhoxhqnrngjhnophtjugngbkh“UgqhNhfxgajpp,”hejhpunq,hznoe
uhptnyj,hpexzngbhenphoenfl,hzenojhojjoe,h“oenphzjjlhN’rjhijjg,huphno
zjsj,hyxxlngbhuohtcpjyahnghuhbyupp,hpjjngbhoeuohynaj,hugqhNhqnqg’ohynlj
nok”

Pejhejyqhoejhzxslhnghejsheugqp,hi ohqnqhgxohfsxfejo,hugqhyxxljqhuohent
znoehposugbj,hpengngb,hugqhexponyjhjcjpk

“OenphtxsgngbhYnduhfutjhoxhpjjhtj—oejc’sjhgxohuasunqhoxhfuyyhxghtj,hng
pmnojhxahoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,”hpejhm ohng—“ugqhpejhoxyqhtj
uix ohcx shUoejgnughjrjgngbkhExzhyxuoepxtj!”

“Nhzuph. pohbxngbhoxhpuckkkk”

Pejhngojss mojqhentkh“NohzuphoeuohOeésèpjhcx h pjqhoxhlgxz?”

“Nhzuph. pohpucngbkkkk”

“Exzhqnpb pongbhcx husj,hcx htjg!hExzhnphnohcx hfug’oh gqjspougqhoeuohu
zxtughfughgjrjshaxsbjohoeuo,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhugbsc,
ugqhpxhyjoongbhenthpjjhoejhfu pjhxahejshnssnouonxg,h“jpmjfnuyychuhzxtug
zexhfuggxohlgxzhcx shynaj?hZeuohqxhNhlgxz?hZeuoheurjhNhjrjshlgxzg?”hpej
punq,h“zeuohcx hojyyhtjkhUgqhexzhqxhNhlgxzhzejoejshcx hojyyhtjhoej
os oe?kkk”

“Uggu,hcx he sohtjkhQxg’ohcx hos pohtj?hEurjg’ohNhoxyqhcx hoeuohN
eurjg’ohuhoex beohNhzx yqg’ohyuchiusjhoxhcx ?”

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpejhpunq,hjrnqjgoychoscngbhoxhp mmsjpphejsh.juyx p
oex beopkh“I ohnahxgychcx hlgjzhexzhzsjofejqhNhut!hNhijynjrjhcx ,hN
ijynjrjhcx kkkkhZeuohzjsjhcx hpucngb?”

I ohejhfx yqhgxohuohxgfjhsjfuyyhzeuohejheuqhijjghbxngbhoxhpuckhOejpj
anophxah.juyx pc,hzenfehxahyuojheuqhijjghtxsjhugqhtxsjhasjw jgohznoe
ejs,hexssnanjqhent,hugqhexzjrjsht fehejhosnjqhoxhqnpb npjhoejhaufo,
tuqjhenthajjyhfxyqhoxhejs,huyoex behejhlgjzhoejhfu pjhxahejsh.juyx pc
zuphejshyxrjhaxshentkhExzhxaojghejheuqhoxyqhentpjyahoeuohejshyxrjhzup
eummngjpp;hugqhgxzhpejhyxrjqhenthuphuhzxtughfughyxrjhzejghyxrjheup
x ozjnbejqhaxshejshuyyhoejhbxxqhoengbphxahynaj—ugqhejhzupht feha soejs
asxtheummngjpphoeughzejghejheuqhaxyyxzjqhejshasxthTxpfxzkhOejghejheuq
oex beohentpjyah geummc,hi oheummngjpphzuphijaxsjhent;hgxzhejhajyohoeuo
oejhijpoheummngjpphzuphuysjuqchyjaohijengqkhPejhzuph oojsych gynljhzeuo
pejheuqhijjghzejghejhanspohpuzhejskhIxoehtxsuyychugqhmecpnfuyychpejheuq
feugbjqhaxshoejhzxspjkhPejheuqhisxuqjgjqhx ohuyyhxrjs,hugqhnghejshaufj
uohoejhontjhzejghpejhzuphpmjulngbhxahoejhufosjpphoejsjhzuphughjrny
jvmsjppnxghxaheuosjqhoeuohqnpoxsojqhnokhEjhyxxljqhuohejshuphuhtughyxxlp
uohuhauqjqhayxzjshejheuphbuoejsjq,hznoehqnaanf yochsjfxbgndngbhnghno
oejhiju ochaxshzenfehejhmnfljqhugqhs ngjqhnokhUgqhnghpmnojhxahoenphej
ajyohoeuohoejg,hzejghenphyxrjhzuphposxgbjs,hejhfx yq,hnahejheuqhbsjuoyc
znpejqhno,heurjhoxsghoeuohyxrjhx ohxahenphejuso;hi ohgxz,hzejghuphuo
oeuohtxtjgohnohpjjtjqhoxhenthejhajyohgxhyxrjhaxshejs,hejhlgjzhoeuohzeuo
ix gqhenthoxhejshfx yqhgxohijhisxljgk

“Zjyy,hzjyy,hzeuohzuphnohcx hzjsjhbxngbhoxhpuchuix ohoejhmsngfj?hNheurj
qsnrjghuzuchoejhanjgq,”hpejhuqqjqkhOejhanjgqhzuphoejhgutjhoejcheuq
bnrjghejsh.juyx pckh“Zeuohqnqhcx hijbnghoxhojyyhtjhuix ohoejhmsngfj?
Zechqnqhcx hangqhnohpxhonsjpxtj?”

“Xe,hnohzuphngoxyjsuiyj!”hejhpunq,hoscngbhoxhmnflh mhoejhoesjuqhxahenp
ngojss mojqhoex beokh“Ejhqxjphgxohntmsxrjhxghfyxpjshufw ungougfjkhNa
cx hzugohenthqjangjq,hejsjhejhnp:huhmsntj,hzjyy-ajqhijupohp fehuphouljp
tjquyphuohoejhfuooyjhpexzp,hugqhgxoengbhtxsj,”hejhpunq,hznoehuhoxgjhxa
rjvuonxghoeuohngojsjpojqhejsk

“Gx;hexzhpx?”hpejhsjmynjqkh“Ej’phpjjghuhbsjuohqjuy,hugczuc;hej’p
f yo sjq?”

“No’phugh oojsychqnaajsjgohf yo sj—oejnshf yo sjkhEj’phf yonruojq,hxgj
pjjp,hpntmychoxhijhuiyjhoxhqjpmnpjhf yo sj,huphoejchqjpmnpjhjrjscoengb
i ohugntuyhmyjup sjpk”

“I ohqxg’ohcx huyyhfusjhaxshoejpjhugntuyhmyjup sjp?”hpejhpunq,hugq
ubunghejhgxonfjqhuhquslhyxxlhnghejshjcjphoeuohurxnqjqhentk

“Exzhnphnohcx ’sjhqjajgqngbhent?”hejhpunq,hptnyngbk

“N’thgxohqjajgqngbhent,hno’phgxoengbhoxhtj;hi ohNhntubngj,hnahcx heuq
gxohfusjqhaxshoexpjhmyjup sjphcx spjya,hcx htnbeoheurjhbxohx ohxahoejtk
I ohnahnohuaaxsqphcx hpuonpaufonxghoxhbudjhuohOeésèpjhnghoejhuoonsjhxa
Jrjkkkk”

“Ubung,hoejhqjrnyhubung,”hRsxgplchpunq,houlngbhoejheugqhpejheuqhyunqhxg
oejhouiyjhugqhlnppngbhnok

“Cjp;hi ohNhfug’ohejymhnokhCx hqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohNheurjhp aajsjqhzunongb
axshcx khNhijynjrjhN’thgxoh.juyx pkhN’thgxoh.juyx p:hNhijynjrjhcx hzejg
cx ’sjhejsj;hi ohzejghcx ’sjhuzuchpxtjzejsjhyjuqngbhcx shynaj,hpx
ngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhtjkkkk”

Pejho sgjqhuzuchasxthent,hm yyjqhoejhexxlhuohyupohx ohxahoejhfsxfejo
zxsl,hugqhsumnqyc,hznoehoejhejymhxahejshaxsjangbjs,hijbughzxslngbhyxxm
uaojshyxxmhxahoejhzxxyhoeuohzuphquddyngbhzenojhnghoejhyutmynbeo,hzenyj
oejhpyjgqjshzsnpohtxrjqhpznaoyc,hgjsrx pychnghoejhjtisxnqjsjqhf aak

“Exzhzuphno,hoejg?hZejsjhqnqhcx htjjohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe?”hEjshrxnfj
px gqjqhnghugh gguo suyhugqh.ussngbhoxgjk

“Zjhsugh mhubungpohjufehxoejshnghoejhqxxszuck”

“Ugqhejhixzjqhoxhcx hynljhoenp?”

Pejhqsjzhuhyxgbhaufj,hugqheuya-fyxpngbhejshjcjp,hw nflychosugpaxstjq
ejshjvmsjppnxg,haxyqjqhejsheugqp,hugqhRsxgplchp qqjgychpuzhnghejs
iju ona yhaufjhoejhrjschjvmsjppnxghznoehzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuq
ixzjqhoxhentkhEjhptnyjq,hzenyjhpejhyu bejqhbunyc,hznoehoeuohpzjjo,hqjjm
yu be,hzenfehzuphxgjhxahejshbsjuojpohfeustpk

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhenthnghoejhyjupo,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Nahuaojshcx s
urxzuyhoxhenthuohcx shfx goschex pjhejheuqhisxljghznoehcx ,hnahejheuq
fuyyjqhtjhx o—i ohoenphNhfug’oh gqjspougqkhExzhfughejhm oh mhznoehp fe
uhmxpnonxg?hEjhajjyphno,hoeuo’phjrnqjgok”

“Ej?”hpejhpunqhpgjjsngbyckh“Ej’phmjsajfoychpuonpanjqk”

“Zeuohusjhzjhuyyhtnpjsuiyjhaxs,hzejghjrjscoengbhtnbeohijhpxheummc?”

“XgychgxohejkhQxg’ohNhlgxzhent,hoejhauypnochnghzenfehej’ph oojsyc
pojjmjq?kkkhFx yqhxgj,hznoehugchajjyngb,hynrjhuphejhnphynrngbhznoehtj?
Ejh gqjspougqphgxoengb,hugqhajjyphgxoengbkhFx yqhuhtughxahugchajjyngb
ynrjhnghoejhputjhex pjhznoehenph gaunoea yhznaj?hFx yqhejhouylhoxhejs,
fuyyhejsh‘tchqjus’?”

Ugqhubunghpejhfx yqhgxohejymhtntnflngbhent:h“‘Uggu,h_tuhfeèsj_;hUggu,
qjus’!”

“Ej’phgxohuhtug,hgxohuhe tughijngb—ej’phuhqxyy!hGxhxgjhlgxzphent;hi ohN
lgxzhentkhXe,hnahN’qhijjghnghenphmyufj,hN’qhyxgbhubxheurjhlnyyjq,heurj
oxsghoxhmnjfjphuhznajhynljhtjkhNhzx yqg’oheurjhpunq,h‘Uggu,h_tu
feèsj_’!hEj’phgxohuhtug,hej’phughxaanfnuyhtufengjkhEjhqxjpg’o
 gqjspougqhoeuohN’thcx shznaj,hoeuohej’phx opnqj,hoeuohej’p
p mjsay x pkkkkhQxg’ohyjo’phouylhxahent!kkk”

“Cx ’sjh gauns,hrjsch gauns,hqjusjpo,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hoscngbhoxhpxxoej
ejskh“I ohgjrjshtngq,hqxg’ohyjo’phouylhxahentkhOjyyhtjhzeuohcx ’rjhijjg
qxngb?hZeuohnphoejhtuoojs?hZeuoheuphijjghzsxgbhznoehcx ,hugqhzeuohqnq
oejhqxfoxshpuc?”

Pejhyxxljqhuohenthznoehtxflngbhut pjtjgokhJrnqjgoychpejheuqhenohxg
xoejshuip sqhugqhbsxojpw jhupmjfophnghejshe piugqhugqhzuphuzunongbhoej
txtjgohoxhbnrjhjvmsjppnxghoxhoejtk

I ohejhzjgohxg:

“Nhntubngjhoeuohno’phgxohnyygjpp,hi ohcx shfxgqnonxgkhZejghznyyhnohij?”

Oejhnsxgnfuyhynbeohqnjqhuzuchnghejshjcjp,hi ohuhqnaajsjgohptnyj,hu
fxgpfnx pgjpphxahpxtjoengb,hejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuo,hugqhxahw njo
tjyugfexyc,hfutjhxrjshejshaufjk

“Pxxg,hpxxgkhCx hpuchoeuohx shmxpnonxghnphtnpjsuiyj,hoeuohzjht pohm o
ughjgqhoxhnokhNahcx hlgjzhexzhojssniyjhnohnphoxhtj,hzeuohNhzx yqhbnrj
oxhijhuiyjhoxhyxrjhcx hasjjychugqhixyqyc!hNhpex yqhgxohoxso sjhtcpjya
ugqhoxso sjhcx hznoehtch.juyx pckkkkhUgqhnohznyyhfxtjhpxxg,hi ohgxohup
zjhjvmjfok”

Ugqhuohoejhoex beohxahexzhnohzx yqhfxtj,hpejhpjjtjqhpxhmnonuiyjhox
ejspjyahoeuohojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjp,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohbxhxgkhPej
yunqhejsheugqhxghenphpyjjrj,hquddyngbhugqhzenojhznoehnophsngbphnghoej
yutmynbeok

“Nohzxg’ohfxtjhuphzjhp mmxpjkhNhqnqg’ohtjughoxhpuchoenphoxhcx ,hi o
cx ’rjhtuqjhtjkhPxxg,hpxxg,huyyhznyyhijhxrjs,hugqhzjhpeuyyhuyy,huyyhij
uohmjufj,hugqhp aajshgxhtxsjk”

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hejhpunq,h gqjspougqngbhejsk

“Cx hupljqhzejg?hPxxgkhUgqhNhpeug’ohynrjhoesx behnokhQxg’ohngojss mo
tj!”hugqhpejhtuqjheupojhoxhpmjulkh“Nhlgxzhno;hNhlgxzhaxshfjsoungkhN
peuyyhqnj;hugqhN’thrjschbyuqhNhpeuyyhqnj,hugqhsjyjupjhtcpjyahugqhcx k”

Ojusphqsxmmjqhasxthejshjcjp;hejhijgohqxzghxrjshejsheugqhugqhijbug
lnppngbhno,hoscngbhoxhenqjhenphjtxonxg,hzenfe,hejhlgjz,heuqhgxhpxsohxa
bsx gqp,hoex behejhfx yqhgxohfxgosxyhnok

“Cjp,hno’phijoojshpx,”hpejhpunq,honbeoychbsnmmngbhenpheugqkh“Oeuo’phoej
xgychzuc,hoejhxgychzuchyjaoh pk”

Ejheuqhsjfxrjsjqhentpjya,hugqhynaojqhenphejuqk

“Exzhuip sq!hZeuohuip sqhgxgpjgpjhcx husjhouylngb!”

“Gx,hno’phoejhos oek”

“Zeuo,hzeuo’phoejhos oe?”

“OeuohNhpeuyyhqnjkhNheurjheuqhuhqsjutk”

“Uhqsjut?”hsjmjuojqhRsxgplc,hugqhngpougoychejhsjfuyyjqhoejhmjupugohxa
enphqsjutk

“Cjp,huhqsjut,”hpejhpunqkh“No’phuhyxgbhzenyjhpngfjhNhqsjutjqhnokhN
qsjutjqhoeuohNhsughngoxhtchijqsxxt,hoeuohNheuqhoxhbjohpxtjoengbhoejsj,
oxhangqhx ohpxtjoengb;hcx hlgxzhexzhnohnphnghqsjutp,”hpejhpunq,hejs
jcjphznqjhznoehexssxs;h“ugqhnghoejhijqsxxt,hnghoejhfxsgjs,hpoxxq
pxtjoengbk”

“Xe,hzeuohgxgpjgpj!hExzhfughcx hijynjrjkkkk”

I ohpejhzx yqhgxohyjohenthngojss mohejskhZeuohpejhzuphpucngbhzuphoxx
ntmxsougohoxhejsk

“Ugqhoejhpxtjoengbho sgjqhsx gq,hugqhNhpuzhnohzuphuhmjupugohznoehu
qnpejrjyjqhijusq,hynooyj,hugqhqsjuqa yhyxxlngbkhNhzugojqhoxhs ghuzuc,
i ohejhijgohqxzghxrjshuhpufl,hugqhzupha tiyngbhoejsjhznoehenp
eugqpkkkk”

PejhpexzjqhexzhejheuqhtxrjqhenpheugqpkhOejsjhzuphojssxshnghejshaufjk
UgqhRsxgplc,hsjtjtijsngbhenphqsjut,hajyohoejhputjhojssxshanyyngbhenp
px yk

“Ejhzupha tiyngbhugqhljmohouylngbhw nflyc,hw nflychnghAsjgfe,hcx hlgxz:
_Nyhau ohyjhiuoosj,hyjhajs,hyjhisxcjs,hyjhméosns_kkkkhUgqhnghtchexssxs
Nhosnjqhoxhzuljh m,hugqhzxljh mhkkkhi ohzxljh mhnghoejhqsjutkhUgqhN
ijbughuplngbhtcpjyahzeuohnohtjugokhUgqhLxsgjchpunqhoxhtj:h‘Ng
fenyqinsoehcx ’yyhqnj,htu’ut,hcx ’yyhqnjkkkk’hUgqhNhzxljh mk”

“Zeuohgxgpjgpj,hzeuohgxgpjgpj!”hpunqhRsxgplc;hi ohejhajyohentpjyahoeuo
oejsjhzuphgxhfxgrnfonxghnghenphrxnfjk

“I ohqxg’ohyjo’phouylhxahnokhSngbhoejhijyy,hN’yyheurjhojukhUgqhpouchu
ynooyjhgxz;hno’phgxohyxgbhNhpeuyykkkk”

I ohuyyhuohxgfjhpejhpoxmmjqkhOejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshaufjhngpougougjx pyc
feugbjqkhExssxshugqhjvfnojtjgohzjsjhp qqjgychsjmyufjqhichuhyxxlhxa
pxao,hpxyjtg,hiynppa yhuoojgonxgkhEjhfx yqhgxohfxtmsjejgqhoejhtjugngb
xahoejhfeugbjkhPejhzuphynpojgngbhoxhoejhponssngbhxahoejhgjzhynajhznoeng
ejsk


Feumojsh4

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huaojshtjjongbhRsxgplchxghenphxzghpojmp,hqsxrj,
uphejheuqhngojgqjq,hoxhoejhNouynughxmjsukhEjhpuohoesx behozxhufop
oejsj,hugqhpuzhjrjscxgjhejheuqhzugojqhoxhpjjkhXghsjo sgngbhextj,hej
fusja yychpfs ongndjqhoejheuohpougq,hugqhgxonfngbhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxohu
tnynouschxrjsfxuohoejsj,hejhzjgo,huph p uy,hoxhenphxzghsxxtkhI o,
fxgosuschoxhenph p uyheuino,hejhqnqhgxohbxhoxhijq,hejhzuyljqh mhugq
qxzghenphpo qchonyyhoesjjhx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngbkhOejhajjyngbhxa
a snx phugbjshznoehenphznaj,hzexhzx yqhgxohxipjsrjhoejhmsxmsnjonjphugq
ljjmhoxhoejhxgjhponm yuonxghejheuqhyunqhxghejs,hgxohoxhsjfjnrjhejs
yxrjshnghejshxzghextj,hburjhenthgxhmjufjkhPejheuqhgxohfxtmynjqhznoehenp
sjw jpo,hugqhejhzuphix gqhoxhm gnpehejshugqhfusschx ohenphoesjuo—xioung
uhqnrxsfjhugqhouljhuzuchenphpxgkhEjhlgjzhuyyhoejhqnaanf yonjphfxggjfojq
znoehoenphfx spj,hi ohejheuqhpunqhejhzx yqhqxhno,hugqhgxzhejht pohfussc
x ohenphoesjuokhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhengojqhoeuohoenphzuphoej
ijpohzuchx ohxahenphmxpnonxg,hugqhxahyuojhoejhxioungngbhxahqnrxsfjpheuq
ijjghisx beohoxhp fehmjsajfonxghoeuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhu
mxppninynochxahxrjsfxtngbhoejhaxstuyhqnaanf yonjpkhTnpaxso gjphgjrjs
fxtjhpngbyc,hugqhoejhuaaunsphxahoejhsjxsbugnduonxghxahoejhguonrj
osnijp,hugqhxahoejhnssnbuonxghxahoejhyugqphxahoejhDusunplchmsxrngfj,
euqhisx beohp fehxaanfnuyhzxssnjph mxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoeuohej
euqhijjghxahyuojhnghuhfxgong uyhfxgqnonxghxahjvosjtjhnssnouinynock

Ejhqnqhgxohpyjjmhoejhzexyjhgnbeo,hugqhenpha sc,hbsxzngbhnghuhpxsohxa
rupo,husnoetjonfuyhmsxbsjppnxg,hsjufejqhnophenbejpohyntnophnghoej
txsgngbkhEjhqsjppjqhngheupoj,hugqhuphoex behfusscngbhenphf mha yyhxa
zsuoe,hugqhajusngbhoxhpmnyyhugchxrjs,hajusngbhoxhyxpjhznoehenphzsuoe
oejhjgjsbchgjfjppuschaxshoejhngojsrnjzhznoehenphznaj,hejhzjgohngoxhejs
sxxthqnsjfoychejhejusqhpejhzuph mk

Uggu,hzexheuqhoex beohpejhlgjzhejshe piugqhpxhzjyy,hzuphutudjqhuohenp
ummjusugfjhzejghejhzjgohnghoxhejskhEnphisxzhzuphyxzjsngb,hugqhenphjcjp
pousjqhquslychijaxsjhent,hurxnqngbhejshjcjp;henphtx oehzuphonbeoychugq
fxgojtmo x pychpe okhNghenphzuyl,hnghenphbjpo sjp,hnghoejhpx gqhxahenp
rxnfjhoejsjhzuphuhqjojstnguonxghugqhanstgjpphp fehuphenphznajheuqhgjrjs
pjjghnghentkhEjhzjgohngoxhejshsxxt,hugqhznoex ohbsjjongbhejs,hzuyljq
posunbeoh mhoxhejshzsnongb-ouiyj,hugqhoulngbhejshljcp,hxmjgjqhuhqsuzjsk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugo?”hpejhfsnjqk

“Cx shyxrjs’phyjoojsp,”hejhpunqk

“Oejc’sjhgxohejsj,”hpejhpunq,hpe oongbhoejhqsuzjs;hi ohasxthoeuohufonxg
ejhpuzhejheuqhb jppjqhsnbeo,hugqhsx beychm pengbhuzuchejsheugq,hej
w nflychpguofejqhuhmxsoaxynxhnghzenfehejhlgjzhpejh pjqhoxhm ohejshtxpo
ntmxsougohmumjspkhPejhosnjqhoxhm yyhoejhmxsoaxynxhuzuc,hi ohejhm pejq
ejshiuflk

“Pnohqxzg!hNheurjhoxhpmjulhoxhcx ,”hejhpunq,hm oongbhoejhmxsoaxynx
 gqjshenphust,hugqhpw jjdngbhnohpxhonbeoychznoehenphjyixzhoeuohenp
pex yqjshpoxxqh mkhUtudjqhugqhngontnquojq,hpejhbudjqhuohenthnghpnyjgfjk

“Nhoxyqhcx hoeuohNhzx yqhgxohuyyxzhcx hoxhsjfjnrjhcx shyxrjshnghoenp
ex pjk”

“Nheuqhoxhpjjhenthoxkkkk”

Pejhpoxmmjq,hgxohangqngbhuhsjupxgk

“Nhqxhgxohjgojshngoxhoejhqjounyphxahzechuhzxtughzugophoxhpjjhejs
yxrjsk”

“Nhtjugo,hNhxgyckkkk”hpejhpunq,hay pengbhexoyckhOenphfxuspjgjpphxahenp
ugbjsjqhejs,hugqhburjhejshfx subjkh“P sjychcx ht pohajjyhexzhjupchnohnp
axshcx hoxhngp yohtj?”hpejhpunqk

“Ughexgjpohtughugqhughexgjpohzxtughtuchijhngp yojq,hi ohoxhojyyhuhoenja
ej’phuhoenjahnphpntmych_yuhfxgpououonxghq’ ghauno_k”

“Oenphfs jyochnphpxtjoengbhgjzhNhqnqhgxohlgxzhnghcx k”

“Cx hfuyyhnohfs jyochaxshuhe piugqhoxhbnrjhenphznajhynijsoc,hbnrngbhejs
oejhexgxsuiyjhmsxojfonxghxahenphgutj,hpntmychxghoejhfxgqnonxghxa
xipjsrngbhoejhmsxmsnjonjp:hnphoeuohfs jyoc?”

“No’phzxspjhoeughfs jy—no’phiupj,hnahcx hzugohoxhlgxz!”hUgguhfsnjq,hng
uhs pehxaheuosjq,hugqhbjoongbh m,hpejhzuphbxngbhuzuck

“Gx!”hejhpesnjljq,hnghenphpesnyyhrxnfj,hzenfehmnofejqhuhgxojhenbejs
oeugh p uyhjrjg,hugqhenphinbheugqphfy ofengbhejshichoejhusthpx
rnxyjgoychoeuohsjqhtuslphzjsjhyjaohasxthoejhisufjyjohejhzuphpw jjdngb,
ejhaxsfniychpuohejshqxzghnghejshmyufjk

“Iupj!hNahcx hfusjhoxh pjhoeuohzxsq,hzeuohnphiupjhnphoxhaxspuljhe piugq
ugqhfenyqhaxshuhyxrjs,hzenyjhcx hjuohcx she piugq’phisjuq!”

PejhixzjqhejshejuqkhPejhqnqhgxohpuchzeuohpejheuqhpunqhoejhjrjgngb
ijaxsjhoxhejshyxrjs,hoeuoh_ej_hzuphejshe piugq,hugqhejshe piugqhzup
p mjsay x p;hpejhqnqhgxohjrjghoenglhoeuokhPejhajyohuyyhoejh. ponfjhxa
enphzxsqp,hugqhxgychpunqhpxaoyc:

“Cx hfuggxohqjpfsnijhtchmxpnonxghuphzxspjhoeughNhajjyhnohoxhijhtcpjya;
i ohzeuohusjhcx hpucngbhuyyhoenphaxs?”

“ZeuohuthNhpucngbhnohaxs?hzeuohaxs?”hejhzjgohxg,huphugbsnyckh“Oeuohcx 
tuchlgxzhoeuohpngfjhcx heurjhgxohfussnjqhx ohtchznpejphnghsjbusqhox
xipjsrngbhx ozusqhqjfxs t,hNhznyyhouljhtjup sjphoxhm ohughjgqhoxhoenp
pouojhxahoengbpk”

“Pxxg,hrjschpxxg,hnohznyyhjgq,hugczuc,”hpejhpunq;hugqhubung,huohoej
oex beohxahqjuoehgjushuoheugqhugqhgxzhqjpnsjq,hojusphfutjhngoxhejs
jcjpk

“Nohznyyhjgqhpxxgjshoeughcx hugqhcx shyxrjsheurjhmyuggjq!hNahcx ht po
eurjhoejhpuonpaufonxghxahugntuyhmuppnxgkkkk”

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!hNhzxg’ohpuchno’phgxohbjgjsx p,hi ohno’phgxo
ynljhuhbjgoyjtughoxhposnljhugcxgjhzex’phqxzgk”

“Cjp,hcx hxgychoenglhxahcx spjya!hI ohoejhp aajsngbphxahuhtughzexhzup
cx she piugqheurjhgxhngojsjpohaxshcx khCx hqxg’ohfusjhoeuohenphzexyj
ynajhnphs ngjq,hoeuohejhnphoe aahkkkhoe aakkkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphpmjulngbhpxhw nflychoeuohejhpouttjsjq,hugq
zuph oojsych guiyjhoxhusonf yuojhoejhzxsqh“p aajsngbk”hNghoejhjgqhej
msxgx gfjqhnoh“oe aajsngbk”hPejhzugojqhoxhyu be,hugqhzuphnttjqnuojyc
upeutjqhoeuohugcoengbhfx yqhut pjhejshuohp fehuhtxtjgokhUgqhaxshoej
anspohontj,haxshughngpougo,hpejhajyohaxshent,hm ohejspjyahnghenphmyufj,
ugqhzuphpxsschaxshentkhI ohzeuohfx yqhpejhpuchxshqx?hEjshejuqhpugl,hugq
pejhpuohpnyjgokhEjhoxxhzuphpnyjgohaxshpxtjhontj,hugqhoejghijbug
pmjulngbhnghuhasnbnq,hyjpphpesnyyhrxnfj,hjtmeupndngbhsugqxthzxsqphoeuo
euqhgxhpmjfnuyhpnbgnanfugfjk

“Nhfutjhoxhojyyhcx kkkk”hejhpunqk

Pejhbyugfjqhuohentkh“Gx,hnohzuphtchaugfc,”hpejhoex beo,hsjfuyyngbhoej
jvmsjppnxghxahenphaufjhzejghejhpo tiyjqhxrjshoejhzxsqh“p aajsngbk”h“Gx;
fughuhtughznoehoexpjhq yyhjcjp,hznoehoeuohpjya-puonpanjqhfxtmyufjgfc,
ajjyhugcoengb?”

“Nhfuggxohfeugbjhugcoengb,”hpejhzenpmjsjqk

“Nheurjhfxtjhoxhojyyhcx hoeuohNhuthbxngbhoxtxssxzhoxhTxpfxz,hugqhpeuyy
gxohsjo sghubunghoxhoenphex pj,hugqhcx hznyyhsjfjnrjhgxonfjhxahzeuohN
qjfnqjhoesx behoejhyuzcjshngoxhzexpjheugqphNhpeuyyhngos pohoejhouplhxa
bjoongbhuhqnrxsfjkhTchpxghnphbxngbhoxhtchpnpojs’p,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hznoehughjaaxsohsjfuyyngbhzeuohejheuqhtjugohoxhpuchuix o
enphpxgk

“Cx houljhPjscxdeuhoxhe sohtj,”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohenthasxth gqjshejs
isxzpkh“Cx hqxhgxohyxrjhentkkkkhYjurjhtjhPjscxdeu!”

“Cjp,hNheurjhyxpohjrjghtchuaajfonxghaxshtchpxg,hijfu pjhejhnp
uppxfnuojqhznoehoejhsjm ypnxghNhajjyhaxshcx khI ohponyyhNhpeuyyhoulj
entkhBxxq-icj!”

Ugqhejhzuphbxngbhuzuc,hi ohgxzhpejhqjoungjqhentk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hyjurjhtjhPjscxdeu!”hpejhzenpmjsjqhxgfjhtxsjkh“N
eurjhgxoengbhjypjhoxhpuckhYjurjhPjscxdeuhonyyhtchkkkhNhpeuyyhpxxghij
fxgangjq;hyjurjhent!”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehayjzhngoxhuhsubj,hugq,hpguofengbhenpheugqhasxt
ejs,hejhzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxthznoex ohuhzxsqk


Feumojsh5

Oejhzunongb-sxxthxahoejhfjyjisuojqhMjojspi sbhyuzcjshzupha yyhzejg
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehjgojsjqhnokhOesjjhyuqnjp—ughxyqhyuqc,huhcx gb
yuqc,hugqhuhtjsfeugo’phznaj—ugqhoesjjhbjgoyjtjg—xgjhuhBjstughiugljs
znoehuhsngbhxghenphangbjs,hoejhpjfxgqhuhtjsfeugohznoehuhijusq,hugqhoej
oensqhuhzsuoea y-yxxlngbhbxrjsgtjgohfyjslhnghxaanfnuyh gnaxst,hznoehu
fsxpphxghenphgjfl—euqhxirnx pychijjghzunongbhuhyxgbhzenyjhuysjuqckhOzx
fyjslphzjsjhzsnongbhuohouiyjphznoehpfsuofengbhmjgpkhOejhumm sojgugfjp
xahoejhzsnongb-ouiyjp,huix ohzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphentpjya
rjschauponqnx p,hzjsjhjvfjmonxguyychbxxqkhEjhfx yqhgxohejymhxipjsrngb
oenpkhXgjhxahoejhfyjslp,hznoex ohbjoongbh m,ho sgjqhzsuoea yychox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,heuyahfyxpngbhenphjcjpkh“Zeuohusjhcx hzugongb?”

Ejhsjmynjqhoeuohejheuqhoxhpjjhoejhyuzcjshxghpxtjhi pngjppk

“Ejhnphjgbubjq,”hoejhfyjslhsjpmxgqjqhpjrjsjyc,hugqhejhmxngojqhznoehenp
mjghuohoejhmjspxgphzunongb,hugqhzjgohxghzsnongbk

“Fug’ohejhpmusjhontjhoxhpjjhtj?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Ejheuphgxhontjhasjj;hejhnphuyzucphi pckhLngqychzunohcx sho sgk”

“OejghNht pohosx iyjhcx hoxhbnrjhenthtchfusq,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
punqhznoehqnbgnoc,hpjjngbhoejhntmxppninynochxahmsjpjsrngbhenp
ngfxbgnoxk

Oejhfyjslhoxxlhoejhfusqhugq,hxirnx pychgxohummsxrngbhxahzeuohejhsjuqhxg
no,hzjgohoxhoejhqxxsk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphnghmsngfnmyjhnghaurxshxahoejhm iynfnochxa
yjbuyhmsxfjjqngbp,hoex behaxshpxtjhenbejshxaanfnuyhfxgpnqjsuonxgphej
qnpynljqhoejhummynfuonxghxahoejhmsngfnmyjhnghS ppnu,hugqhqnpummsxrjqhxa
no,huphaushuphejhfx yqhqnpummsxrjhxahugcoengbhngpono ojqhichu oexsnoc
xahoejhJtmjsxskhEnphzexyjhynajheuqhijjghpmjgohnghuqtngnposuonrjhzxsl,
ugqhfxgpjw jgoyc,hzejghejhqnqhgxohummsxrjhxahugcoengb,henphqnpummsxruy
zuphpxaojgjqhichoejhsjfxbgnonxghxahoejhngjrnouinynochxahtnpouljphugq
oejhmxppninynochxahsjaxsthnghjrjschqjmusotjgokhNghoejhgjzhm iynfhyuz
fx sophejhqnpynljqhoejhsjposnfonxgphyunqhxghoejhyuzcjsphfxgq fongb
fupjpkhI ohonyyhoejghejheuqheuqhgxoengbhoxhqxhznoehoejhyuzhfx sop,hugq
pxheuqhqnpummsxrjqhxahoejnshm iynfnochpntmychnghoejxsc;hgxzhenp
qnpummsxiuonxghzuphposjgboejgjqhichoejh gmyjupugohntmsjppnxghtuqjhxg
enthnghoejhyuzcjs’phzunongbhsxxtk

“Fxtngbhnttjqnuojyc,”hpunqhoejhfyjsl;hugqhozxhtng ojphyuojshoejsjhqnq
ufo uyychummjushnghoejhqxxszuchoejhyusbjhanb sjhxahughxyqhpxynfnoxshzex
euqhijjghfxgp yongbhznoehoejhyuzcjshentpjyak

Oejhyuzcjshzuphuhynooyj,hpw uo,hiuyqhtug,hznoehuhqusl,hsjqqnpehijusq,
ynbeo-fxyxsjqhyxgbhjcjisxzp,hugqhughxrjseugbngbhisxzkhEjhzuphuoonsjqhup
oex behaxshuhzjqqngb,hasxthenphfsuruohoxhenphqx iyjhzuofe-feunghugq
rusgnpejqhixxopkhEnphaufjhzuphfyjrjshugqhtugyc,hi ohenphqsjpphzup
qugqnanjqhugqhnghiuqhoupojk

“Msuchzuylhng,”hpunqhoejhyuzcjs,huqqsjppngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe;hugq,
byxxtnych pejsngbhLusjgnghnghijaxsjhent,hejhfyxpjqhoejhqxxsk

“Zxg’ohcx hpnohqxzg?”hEjhngqnfuojqhughustfeunshuohuhzsnongb-ouiyj
fxrjsjqhznoehmumjspkhEjhpuohqxzghentpjya,hugq,hs iingbhenphynooyjheugqp
znoehpexsohangbjsphfxrjsjqhznoehzenojheunsp,hejhijgohenphejuqhxghxgj
pnqjkhI ohuphpxxghuphejhzuphpjooyjqhnghoenphmxpnonxghuhtxoehayjzhxrjs
oejhouiyjkhOejhyuzcjs,hznoehuhpznaogjpphoeuohfx yqhgjrjsheurjhijjg
jvmjfojqhxahent,hxmjgjqhenpheugqp,hfu beohoejhtxoe,hugqhsjp tjqhenp
axstjshuoono qjk

“Ijaxsjhijbnggngbhoxhpmjulhxahtchi pngjpp,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
axyyxzngbhoejhyuzcjs’phtxrjtjgophznoehzxgqjsngbhjcjp,h“Nhx beohox
xipjsrjhoeuohoejhi pngjpphuix ohzenfehNheurjhoxhpmjulhoxhcx hnphoxhij
posnfoychmsnruojk”

Oejhyuzcjs’phxrjseugbngbhsjqqnpeht poufejphzjsjhmusojqhnghuhpfusfjyc
mjsfjmoniyjhptnyjk

“Nhpex yqhgxohijhuhyuzcjshnahNhfx yqhgxohljjmhoejhpjfsjophfxganqjqhox
tjkhI ohnahcx hzx yqhynljhmsxxakkkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbyugfjqhuohenphaufj,hugqhpuzhoeuohoejhpesjzq,
bsuchjcjphzjsjhyu bengb,hugqhpjjtjqhoxhlgxzhuyyhuix ohnohuysjuqck

“Cx hlgxzhtchgutj?”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjp tjqk

“Nhlgxzhcx hugqhoejhbxxq”—ubunghejhfu beohuhtxoe—“zxslhcx husjhqxngb,
ynljhjrjschS ppnug,”hpunqhoejhyuzcjs,hixzngbk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpnbejq,hmy flngbh mhenphfx subjkhI oheurngbhxgfj
tuqjh mhenphtngqhejhzjgohxghnghenphpesnyyhrxnfj,hznoex ohontnqnoc—xs
ejpnouonxg,huffjgo uongbhejsjhugqhoejsjhuhzxsqk

“Nheurjhoejhtnpaxso gj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehijbug,h“oxheurjhijjg
qjfjnrjqhnghtchtussnjqhynaj,hugqhNhqjpnsjhoxhisjulhxaahuyyhsjyuonxgp
znoehtchznajhichyjbuyhtjugp—oeuohnp,hoxhijhqnrxsfjq,hi ohoxhqxhoenphpx
oeuohtchpxghtuchgxohsjtunghznoehenphtxoejsk”

Oejhyuzcjs’phbsuchjcjphosnjqhgxohoxhyu be,hi ohoejchzjsjhqugfngbhznoe
nssjmsjppniyjhbyjj,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhoeuohnohzuphgxo
pntmychoejhqjynbeohxahuhtughzexheuph. pohbxohuhmsxanouiyjh.xi:hoejsj
zuphosn tmehugqh.xc,hoejsjhzuphuhbyjuthynljhoejhtuynbgugohbyjuthejhpuz
nghenphznaj’phjcjpk

“Cx hqjpnsjhtchuppnpougfjhnghpjf sngbhuhqnrxsfj?”

“Cjp,hmsjfnpjychpx;hi ohNhx beohoxhzusghcx hoeuohNhtuchijhzupongbhcx s
ontjhugqhuoojgonxgkhNheurjhfxtjhpntmychoxhfxgp yohcx huphuhmsjyntngusc
pojmkhNhzugohuhqnrxsfj,hi ohoejhaxsthnghzenfehnohnphmxppniyjhnphxa
bsjuohfxgpjw jgfjhoxhtjkhNohnphrjschmxppniyjhoeuohnahoeuohaxsthqxjphgxo
fxssjpmxgqhznoehtchsjw nsjtjgophNhtuchbnrjh mhuhyjbuyhqnrxsfjk”

“Xe,hoeuo’phuyzucphoejhfupj,”hpunqhoejhyuzcjs,h“ugqhoeuo’phuyzucphaxs
cx hoxhqjfnqjk”

EjhyjohenphjcjphsjpohxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phajjo,hajjyngbhoeuohej
tnbeohxaajgqhenphfynjgohichoejhpnbeohxahenphnssjmsjppniyjhut pjtjgokhEj
yxxljqhuohuhtxoehoeuohayjzhijaxsjhenphgxpj,hugqhtxrjqhenpheugqp,hi o
qnqhgxohfuofehnohasxthsjbusqhaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phmxpnonxgk

“Oex behnghoejnshbjgjsuyhajuo sjphx shyuzphxghoenphp i.jfohusjhlgxzghox
tj,”hm sp jqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,h“Nhpex yqhijhbyuqhoxheurjhughnqju
xahoejhaxstphnghzenfehp fehoengbphusjhqxgjhnghmsufonfjk”

“Cx hzx yqhijhbyuq,”hoejhyuzcjs,hznoex ohynaongbhenphjcjp,hsjpmxgqjq,
uqxmongb,hznoehuhfjsounghpuonpaufonxg,hoejhoxgjhxahenphfynjgo’p
sjtuslp,h“axshtjhoxhyuchijaxsjhcx huyyhoejhtjoexqphichzenfehcx hfx yq
pjf sjhzeuohcx hqjpnsj?”

Ugqhxghsjfjnrngbhughupp sngbhgxqhasxthUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hejhzjgo
xg,hpojuyngbhuhbyugfjhgxzhugqhoejghuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phaufj,
zenfehzuphbsxzngbhsjqhnghmuofejpk

“Qnrxsfjhichx shyuzp,”hejhpunq,hznoehuhpynbeohpeuqjhxahqnpummsxiuonxg
xahx shyuzp,h“nphmxppniyj,huphcx husjhuzusj,hnghoejhaxyyxzngbhfupjpkkkk
Zunohuhynooyj!”hejhfuyyjqhoxhuhfyjslhzexhm ohenphejuqhnghuohoejhqxxs,
i ohejhbxoh mhuyyhoejhputj,hpunqhuhajzhzxsqphoxhent,hugqhpuohqxzg
ubungkh“kkkhNghoejhaxyyxzngbhfupjp:hmecpnfuyhqjajfohnghoejhtussnjq
musonjp,hqjpjsonxghznoex ohfxtt gnfuonxghaxshanrjhcjusp,”hejhpunq,
fsxxlngbhuhpexsohangbjshfxrjsjqhznoeheuns,h“uq yojsc”h(oenphzxsqhej
msxgx gfjqhznoehxirnx phpuonpaufonxg),h“p iqnrnqjqhuphaxyyxzp”h(ej
fxgong jqhoxhfsxxlhenphauohangbjsp,hoex behoejhoesjjhfupjphugqhoejns
p iqnrnpnxgphfx yqhxirnx pychgxohijhfyuppnanjqhoxbjoejs):h“mecpnfuy
qjajfohxahoejhe piugqhxshxahoejhznaj,huq yojschxahoejhe piugqhxshxahoej
znajk”hUphichgxzhuyyhenphangbjsphzjsjh pjqh m,hejh gfsxxljqhuyyhenp
angbjsphugqhzjgohxg:h“Oenphnphoejhoejxsjonfuyhrnjz;hi ohNhntubngjhcx 
eurjhqxgjhtjhoejhexgxshoxhummychoxhtjhnghxsqjshoxhyjusghnophummynfuonxg
nghmsufonfjkhUgqhoejsjaxsj,hb nqjqhichmsjfjqjgop,hNht pohngaxsthcx 
oeuohnghmsufonfjhfupjphxahqnrxsfjhtuchuyyhijhsjq fjqhoxhoej
axyyxzngb—oejsj’phgxhmecpnfuyhqjajfo,hNhtuchupp tj,hgxshqjpjsonxg?kkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehixzjqhenphejuqhnghuppjgok

“—Tuchijhsjq fjqhoxhoejhaxyyxzngb:huq yojschxahxgjhxahoejhtussnjq
musonjp,hugqhoejhqjojfonxghnghoejhaufohxahoejhb nyochmusochicht o uy
ubsjjtjgo,hugqhaunyngbhp fehubsjjtjgo,huffnqjgouyhqjojfonxgkhNoht pohij
uqtnoojqhoeuohoejhyuoojshfupjhnphsusjychtjohznoehnghmsufonfj,”hpunqhoej
yuzcjs,hugqhpojuyngbhuhbyugfjhuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehejhmu pjq,huphu
tughpjyyngbhmnpoxyp,huaojshjgyusbngbhxghoejhuqrugoubjphxahjufehzjumxg,
tnbeohuzunohenphf poxtjs’phfexnfjkhI ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunq
gxoengb,hugqhoejsjaxsjhoejhyuzcjshzjgohxg:h“Oejhtxpoh p uyhugqhpntmyj,
oejhpjgpniyjhfx spj,hNhfxgpnqjs,hnphuq yojschicht o uyhfxgpjgokhN
pex yqhgxohmjstnohtcpjyahoxhjvmsjpphnohpx,hpmjulngbhznoehuhtughxahgx
jq fuonxg,”hejhpunq,h“i ohNhntubngjhoeuohoxhcx hoenphnp
fxtmsjejgpniyjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzup,hexzjrjs,hpxhmjso sijqhoeuohejhqnqhgxo
nttjqnuojychfxtmsjejgqhuyyhoejhbxxqhpjgpjhxahuq yojschicht o uy
fxgpjgo,hugqhenphjcjphjvmsjppjqhoenph gfjsoungoc;hi ohoejhyuzcjs
msxtmoychfutjhoxhenphuppnpougfjk

“Mjxmyjhfuggxohbxhxghynrngbhoxbjoejs—ejsjhcx heurjhuhaufokhUgqhnahixoe
usjhubsjjqhuix ohno,hoejhqjounyphugqhaxstuynonjphijfxtjhuhtuoojshxahgx
ntmxsougfjkhUgqhuohoejhputjhontjhoenphnphoejhpntmyjpohugqhtxpohfjsoung
tjoexqk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeha yych gqjspoxxqhgxzkhI ohejheuqhsjynbnx p
pfs myjp,hzenfehengqjsjqhoejhjvjf onxghxahp fehuhmyugk

“Oeuohnphx ohxahoejhw jponxghnghoejhmsjpjgohfupj,”hejhpunqkh“Xgychxgj
uyojsguonrjhnphmxppniyj:h gqjpnbgjqhqjojfonxg,hp mmxsojqhichyjoojsp
zenfehNheurjk”

Uohoejhtjgonxghxahyjoojsphoejhyuzcjshm spjqh mhenphynmp,hugqhburj
 oojsugfjhoxhuhoenghynooyjhfxtmuppnxguojhugqhfxgojtmo x phpx gqk

“Lngqychfxgpnqjs,”hejhijbug,h“fupjphxahoeuohlngqhusj,huphcx husjhuzusj,
 gqjshjffyjpnuponfuyh. snpqnfonxg;hoejhsjrjsjgqhauoejsphusjhaxgqhxa
bxngbhngoxhoejhtng ojpohqjounyphnghfupjphxahoeuohlngq,”hejhpunqhznoehu
ptnyj,hzenfehijosucjqhenphpctmuoechznoehoejhsjrjsjgqhauoejsp’houpojk
“Yjoojsphtuc,hxahfx spj,hijhuhmusonuyhfxganstuonxg;hi ohqjojfonxghng
oejhaufohoejsjht pohijhxahoejhtxpohqnsjfohlngq,hoeuohnp,hic
jcjznogjppjpkhNghaufo,hnahcx hqxhtjhoejhexgxshoxhngos pohcx s
fxganqjgfjhoxhtj,hcx hznyyhqxhzjyyhoxhyjurjhtjhoejhfexnfjhxahoej
tjup sjphoxhijhjtmyxcjqkhNahxgjhzugophoejhsjp yo,hxgjht pohuqtnohoej
tjugpk”

“Nahnohnphpxkkkk”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehijbug,hp qqjgycho sgngbhzenoj;
i ohuohoeuohtxtjgohoejhyuzcjshsxpjhugqhubunghzjgohoxhoejhqxxshoxhpmjul
oxhoejhngos qngbhfyjslk

“Ojyyhejshzjhqxg’oheubbyjhxrjshajjp!”hejhpunq,hugqhsjo sgjqhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

Xghenphzuchiuflhejhfu beoh gxipjsrjqhugxoejshtxoekh“Gnfjhpouojhtchsjm
f soungphznyyhijhnghichoejhp ttjs!”hejhoex beo,hasxzgngbk

“Ugqhpxhcx hzjsjhpucngb?kkk”hejhpunqk

“Nhznyyhfxtt gnfuojhtchqjfnpnxghoxhcx hichyjoojs,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hbjoongbh m,hugqhejhfy ofejqhuohoejhouiyjkhUaojs
pougqngbhuhtxtjgohnghpnyjgfj,hejhpunq:h“Asxthcx shzxsqphNhtuc
fxgpjw jgoychfxgfy qjhoeuohuhqnrxsfjhtuchijhxioungjq?hNhzx yqhuplhcx 
oxhyjohtjhlgxzhzeuohusjhcx shojstpk”

“Nohtuchijhxioungjqhnahcx hbnrjhtjhfxtmyjojhynijsochxahufonxg,”hpunq
oejhyuzcjs,hgxohugpzjsngbhenphw jponxgkh“ZejghfughNhsjflxghxghsjfjnrngb
ngaxstuonxghasxthcx ?”hejhupljq,htxrngbhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,henphjcjphugq
enphrusgnpejqhixxophpengngbk

“Nghuhzjjl’phontjkhCx shugpzjshuphoxhzejoejshcx hznyyh gqjsouljhox
fxgq fohoejhfupj,hugqhxghzeuohojstp,hcx hznyyhijhpxhbxxqhuphox
fxtt gnfuojhoxhtjk”

“Rjschbxxqk”

Oejhyuzcjshixzjqhsjpmjfoa yyc,hyjohenphfynjgohx ohxahoejhqxxs,hugq,
yjaohuyxgj,hburjhentpjyah mhoxhenphpjgpjhxahut pjtjgokhEjhajyohpx
tnsoea yhoeuo,hfxgosuschoxhenphs yjp,hejhtuqjhuhsjq fonxghnghenphojstp
oxhoejheubbyngbhyuqc,hugqhburjh mhfuofengbhtxoep,hanguyychqjfnqngbhoeuo
gjvohzngojshejht poheurjhoejha sgno sjhfxrjsjqhznoehrjyrjo,hynlj
Pnbxgng’pk


Feumojsh6

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhbungjqhuhisnyynugohrnfoxschuohoejhpnoongbhxa
oejhFxttnppnxghxahoejh17oehxahU b po,hi ohnghoejhpjw jyhoenphrnfoxsc
f ohoejhbsx gqhasxth gqjshenphajjokhOejhgjzhfxttnppnxghaxshoejhngw nsc
ngoxhoejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijphnghuyyhnophisugfejpheuqhijjg
axstjqhugqhqjpmuofejqhoxhnophqjponguonxghznoehugh g p uyhpmjjqhugq
jgjsbchngpmnsjqhichUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhZnoenghoesjjhtxgoephuhsjmxso
zuphmsjpjgojqkhOejhfxgqnonxghxahoejhguonrjhosnijphzuphngrjponbuojqhng
nophmxynonfuy,huqtngnposuonrj,hjfxgxtnf,hjoegxbsumenf,htuojsnuy,hugq
sjynbnx phupmjfopkhOxhuyyhoejpjhw jponxgphoejsjhzjsjhugpzjsphuqtnsuiyc
pouojq,hugqhugpzjsphuqtnoongbhgxhpeuqjhxahqx io,hpngfjhoejchzjsjhgxohu
msxq fohxahe tughoex beo,huyzucphynuiyjhoxhjssxs,hi ohzjsjhuyyhoej
msxq fohxahxaanfnuyhufonrnockhOejhugpzjsphzjsjhuyyhiupjqhxghxaanfnuy
quouha sgnpejqhichbxrjsgxsphugqhejuqphxahfe sfejp,hugqhax gqjqhxghoej
sjmxsophxahqnposnfohtubnposuojphugqhjffyjpnuponfuyhp mjsngojgqjgop,
ax gqjqhnghoejnsho sghxghoejhsjmxsophxahmusxfenuyhxrjspjjsphugqhmusnpe
msnjpop;hugqhpxhuyyhxahoejpjhugpzjsphzjsjh gejpnouongbhugqhfjsoungkhUyy
p fehw jponxgphup,haxshngpougfj,hxahoejhfu pjhxahauny sjhxahfsxmp,hxa
oejhuqejsjgfjhxahfjsounghosnijphoxhoejnshugfnjgohijynjap,
jofk—w jponxgphzenfe,hi ohaxshoejhfxgrjgnjgohngojsrjgonxghxahoej
xaanfnuyhtufengj,husjhgxo,hugqhfuggxohijhpxyrjqhaxshubjp—sjfjnrjqha yy,
 gejpnouongbhpxy onxgkhUgqhoenphpxy onxghzuphnghaurxshxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’phfxgojgonxgkhI ohPosjtxr,hzexheuqhajyohpo gbhoxhoej
w nflhuohoejhyupohpnoongb,heuq,hxghoejhsjfjmonxghxahoejhfxttnppnxg’p
sjmxso,hsjpxsojqhoxhoufonfphzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhgxo
ugonfnmuojqkhPosjtxr,hfusscngbhznoehenthpjrjsuyhtjtijsp,hzjgohxrjshox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phpnqj,hugqhgxohfxgojgongbhentpjyahznoehzustyc
qjajgqngbhoejhtjup sjhmsxmxpjqhichLusjgng,hmsxmxpjqhxoejshtxsjhjvosjtj
tjup sjphnghoejhputjhqnsjfonxgkhOejpjhtjup sjp,hponyyha soejs
jvubbjsuojqhnghxmmxpnonxghoxhzeuohzuphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’p
a gqutjgouyhnqju,hzjsjhmuppjqhichoejhfxttnppnxg,hugqhoejghoejhunthxa
Posjtxr’phoufonfphijfutjhummusjgokhFussnjqhoxhughjvosjtj,hoejhtjup sjp
pjjtjqhuohxgfjhoxhijhpxhuip sqhoeuohoejhenbejpohu oexsnonjp,hugqhm iynf
xmngnxg,hugqhngojyyjfo uyhyuqnjp,hugqhoejhgjzpmumjsp,huyyhuohoejhputj
ontjhajyyhax yhxahoejt,hjvmsjppngbhoejnshngqnbguonxghixoehznoehoej
tjup sjphugqhoejnshgxtnguyhauoejs,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhPosjtxrhqsjz
iufl,huaajfongbhoxheurjhiyngqychaxyyxzjqhLusjgng,hugqhoxhijhupox gqjq
ugqhqnposjppjqhuohzeuoheuqhijjghqxgjkhOenphtjugohoejhqjajuohxahUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofekhI ohnghpmnojhxahaunyngbhejuyoe,hnghpmnojhxahenp
qxtjponfhbsnjap,hejhqnqhgxohbnrjhngkhOejsjhzuphuhpmynohnghoej
fxttnppnxgkhPxtjhtjtijsp,hznoehPosjtxrhuohoejnshejuq,h. ponanjqhoejns
tnpouljhxghoejhbsx gqhoeuohoejcheuqhm ohaunoehnghoejhfxttnppnxghxa
sjrnpnxg,hngpono ojqhichUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhtungoungjqhoeuohoej
sjmxsohxahoejhfxttnppnxghzuphs iinpe,hugqhpntmychpxht fehzupojhmumjsk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hznoehuhaxyyxzngbhxahoexpjhzexhpuzhoejhqugbjshxa
pxhsjrxy onxguschughuoono qjhoxhxaanfnuyhqxf tjgop,hmjspnpojqhng
 mexyqngbhoejhpouojtjgophxioungjqhichoejhsjrnpngbhfxttnppnxgkhNg
fxgpjw jgfjhxahoenp,hnghoejhenbejshpmejsjp,hugqhjrjghnghpxfnjoc,huyy
zuphfeuxp,hugqhuyoex behjrjscxgjhzuphngojsjpojq,hgxhxgjhfx yqhojyy
zejoejshoejhguonrjhosnijphsjuyychzjsjhijfxtngbhntmxrjsnpejqhugqhs ngjq,
xshzejoejshoejchzjsjhnghuhayx snpengbhfxgqnonxgkhOejhmxpnonxghxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hxzngbhoxhoenp,hugqhmusoychxzngbhoxhoejhfxgojtmo
yurnpejqhxghenthaxshenphznaj’phnganqjynoc,hijfutjhrjschmsjfusnx pkhUgq
nghoenphmxpnonxghejhoxxlhughntmxsougohsjpxy onxgkhOxhoejhupoxgnpetjgo
xahoejhfxttnppnxg,hejhuggx gfjqhoeuohejhpex yqhuplhmjstnppnxghoxhbx
entpjyahoxhngrjponbuojhoejhw jponxghxghoejhpmxokhUgqheurngbhxioungjq
mjstnppnxg,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmsjmusjqhoxhpjohxaahoxhoejpjhsjtxoj
msxrngfjpk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phqjmuso sjhtuqjhuhbsjuohpjgpuonxg,hoejhtxsjhpx
uph. pohijaxsjhejhpousojqhejhxaanfnuyychsjo sgjqhoejhmxpongb-ausjp
uyyxzjqhenthaxshozjyrjhexspjp,hoxhqsnrjhoxhenphqjponguonxgk

“Nhoenglhnohrjschgxiyj,”hIjopchpunqhuix ohoenphoxhoejhMsngfjpphTculucuk
“Zechouljhtxgjchaxshmxpongb-exspjphzejghjrjscxgjhlgxzphoeuohoejsjhusj
sunyzucphjrjsczejsjhgxz?”

I ohMsngfjpphTculucuhqnqhgxohubsjj,hugqhoejhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’p
xmngnxghuggxcjqhejshngqjjqk

“No’phuyyhrjschzjyyhaxshcx hoxhouyl,”hpunqhpej,h“zejghcx heurjhNhqxg’o
lgxzhexzhtugchtnyynxgp;hi ohNhuthrjschbyuqhzejghtche piugqhbxjphxghu
sjrnpngbhox shnghoejhp ttjskhNo’phrjschbxxqhaxshenthugqhmyjupugo
osurjyngbhuix o,hugqhno’phuhpjooyjqhussugbjtjgohaxshtjhoxhljjmhu
fussnubjhugqhfxufetughxghoejhtxgjck”

XghenphzuchoxhoejhsjtxojhmsxrngfjphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpoxmmjqhaxs
oesjjhqucphuohTxpfxzk

Oejhquchuaojshenphussnruyhejhzuphqsnrngbhiuflhasxthfuyyngbhxghoej
bxrjsgxs-bjgjsuykhUohoejhfsxppsxuqphichBudjoxchMyufj,hzejsjhoejsjhusj
uyzucphfsxzqphxahfussnubjphugqhpyjqbjp,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehp qqjgyc
ejusqhenphgutjhfuyyjqhx ohnghp fehuhyx qhugqhfejjsa yhrxnfjhoeuohej
fx yqhgxohejymhyxxlngbhsx gqkhUohoejhfxsgjshxahoejhmurjtjgo,hnghu
pexso,hpocynpehxrjsfxuohugqhuhyxz-fsxzgjqhaupenxguiyjheuo,h.u gonyc
upljz,hznoehuhptnyjhoeuohpexzjqhuhbyjuthxahzenojhojjoehugqhsjqhynmp,
poxxqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hsuqnugo,hcx gb,hugqhijutngbkhEjhfuyyjqhent
rnbxsx pychugqh sbjgoyc,hugqhngpnpojqhxghenphpoxmmngbkhEjheuqhxgjhust
xghoejhzngqxzhxahuhfussnubjhoeuohzuphpoxmmngbhuohoejhfxsgjs,hugqhx ohxa
oejhzngqxzhzjsjhoes pohoejhejuqphxahuhyuqchnghuhrjyrjoheuo,hugqhozx
fenyqsjgkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphptnyngbhugqhijflxgngbhoxhenp
isxoejs-ng-yuzkhOejhyuqchptnyjqhuhlngqychptnyjhoxx,hugqhpejhoxxhzurjq
ejsheugqhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhNohzuphQxyychznoehejshfenyqsjgk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohzugohoxhpjjhugcxgjhnghTxpfxz,hugqhyjupo
xahuyyhenphznaj’phisxoejskhEjhsunpjqhenpheuohugqhzx yqheurjhqsnrjghxg,
i ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxyqhenphfxufetughoxhpoxm,hugqhsughufsxpphoej
pgxzhoxhentk

“Zjyy,hzeuohuhpeutjhgxohoxheurjhyjoh phlgxz!hIjjghejsjhyxgb?hNhzuphuo
Q ppxop’hcjpojsquchugqhpuzh‘Lusjgng’hxghoejhrnpnoxsp’hynpo,hi ohno
gjrjshjgojsjqhtchejuqhoeuohnohzuphcx ,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
ponflngbhenphejuqhnghuohoejhzngqxzhxahoejhfussnubj,h“xshNhpex yqheurj
yxxljqhcx h mkhNhuthbyuqhoxhpjjhcx !”hejhpunq,hlgxflngbhxgjhaxxo
ubungpohoejhxoejshoxhpeuljhoejhpgxzhxaakh“Zeuohuhpeutjhxahcx hgxohox
yjoh phlgxz!”hejhsjmjuojqk

“Nheuqhgxhontj;hNhuthrjschi pc,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjpmxgqjqhqscyck

“Fxtjhoxhtchznaj,hpejhqxjphpxhzugohoxhpjjhcx k”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeh gaxyqjqhoejhs bhnghzenfehenphasxdjghajjohzjsj
zsummjq,hugqhbjoongbhx ohxahenphfussnubjhtuqjhenphzuchxrjshoejhpgxzhox
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk

“Zec,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hzeuohusjhcx hf oongbh phynljhoenphaxs?”
punqhQxyyc,hptnyngbk

“Nhzuphrjschi pckhQjynbeojqhoxhpjjhcx !”hejhpunqhnghuhoxgjhfyjusyc
ngqnfuongbhoeuohejhzuphuggxcjqhichnokh“Exzhusjhcx ?”

“Ojyyhtj,hexzhnphtchqusyngbhUggu?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeht tiyjqhpxtjoengbhugqhzx yqheurjhbxgjhxgkhI o
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpoxmmjqhentk

“Nhojyyhcx hzeuohzj’yyhqxhoxtxssxzkhQxyyc,huplhenthoxhqnggjskhZj’yyhupl
LxdgnpejrhugqhMjpopxr,hpxhuphoxhjgojsounghenthznoehx shTxpfxz
fjyjisnonjpk”

“Cjp,hmyjupj,hqxhfxtj,”hpunqhQxyyc;h“zjhznyyhjvmjfohcx huohanrj,hxshpnv
x’fyxfl,hnahcx hynljkhExzhnphtchqusyngbhUggu?hExzhyxgbkkkk”

“Pejhnphw nojhzjyy,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeht tiyjq,hasxzgngbk
“Qjynbeojq!”hugqhejhtxrjqhuzuchoxzusqphenphfussnubjk

“Cx hznyyhfxtj?”hQxyychfuyyjqhuaojshentk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhpxtjoengbhzenfehQxyychfx yqhgxohfuofehnghoej
gxnpjhxahoejhtxrngbhfussnubjpk

“Nhpeuyyhfxtjhsx gqhoxtxssxz!”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpex ojqhoxhentk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbxohngoxhenphfussnubj,hugqhi snjqhentpjyahnghno
pxhuphgjnoejshoxhpjjhgxshijhpjjgk

“W jjshanpe!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxhenphznaj,hugqhbyugfngbhuohenp
zuofe,hejhtuqjhuhtxonxghxahenpheugqhijaxsjhenphaufj,hngqnfuongbhu
fusjpphoxhenphznajhugqhfenyqsjg,hugqhzuyljqh.u gonychuyxgbhoej
murjtjgok

“Ponru!hPonru!”hQxyychfuyyjq,hsjqqjgngbk

Ejho sgjqhsx gqk

“Nht pohbjohfxuop,hcx hlgxz,haxshBsnpeuhugqhOugcukhBnrjhtjhoejhtxgjck”

“Gjrjshtngq;hcx hojyyhoejthN’yyhmuchoejhinyy!”hugqhejhrugnpejq,hgxqqngb
bjgnuyychoxhughufw ungougfjhzexhqsxrjhick


Feumojsh7

OejhgjvohquchzuphP gquckhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohoxhoejhBsugqhOejuojs
oxhuhsjejuspuyhxahoejhiuyyjo,hugqhburjhTupeuhOfeninpxru,huhmsjooc
qugfngb-bnsyhzexthejheuqh. pohouljgh gqjshenphmsxojfonxg,hoejhfxsuy
gjflyufjhejheuqhmsxtnpjqhejshoejhjrjgngbhijaxsj,hugqhijengqhoejhpfjgjp
nghoejhqnthqucynbeohxahoejhoejuojs,htugubjqhoxhlnpphejshmsjoochynooyj
aufj,hsuqnugohxrjshejshmsjpjgokhIjpnqjphoejhbnaohxahoejhgjflyufjhej
zugojqhoxhussugbjhznoehejshuix ohtjjongbhuaojshoejhiuyyjokhUaojs
jvmyungngbhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohfxtjhuohoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhiuyyjo,hej
msxtnpjqhejhzx yqhfxtjhaxshoejhyupohufohugqhouljhejshoxhp mmjskhAsxt
oejhoejuojshPojmughUsluqcjrnofehqsxrjhoxhXexogchSxz,hpjyjfojqhentpjya
oejhanpehugqhupmusub phaxshqnggjs,hugqhichozjyrjhx’fyxflhzuphuo
Q ppxop’,hzejsjhejheuqhoxhpjjhoesjjhmjxmyj,hy flnychuyyhpoucngbhuohoej
putjhexojy:hYjrng,hzexheuqhsjfjgoychfxtjhiuflhasxthuisxuqhugqhzup
poucngbhoejsj;hoejhgjzhejuqhxahenphqjmusotjgo,hzexheuqh. pohijjg
msxtxojqhoxhoeuohmxpnonxg,hugqheuqhfxtjhxghuhox shxahsjrnpnxghox
Txpfxz;hugqhenphisxoejs-ng-yuz,hLusjgng,hzexthejht pohpjj,hpxhuphoxhij
p sjhxahisngbngbhenthoxhqnggjsk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehynljqhqngngb,hi ohponyyhijoojshejhynljqhoxhbnrjhu
qnggjs,hptuyy,hi ohrjschfexnfj,hixoehuphsjbusqphoejhaxxqhugqhqsnglhugq
uphsjbusqphoejhpjyjfonxghxahb jpopkhEjhmusonf yusychynljqhoejhmsxbsut
xahoeuohquc’phqnggjskhOejsjhzx yqhijhasjpehmjsfe,hupmusub p,hugqh_yu
mnèfjhqjhsjpnpougfj_—anspo-suoj,hi ohw nojhmyung,hsxupohijja,hugqhzngjp
oxhp no:hpxht fehaxshoejhjuongbhugqhqsnglngbkhLnoochugqhYjrnghzx yqhij
xahoejhmusoc,hugqhoeuohoenphtnbeohgxohijhxios pnrjychjrnqjgo,hoejsj
zx yqhijhuhbnsyhfx pnghoxx,hugqhcx gbhPeofejsiuoplc,hugqh_yuhmnèfjhqj
sjpnpougfj_hutxgbhoejhb jpop—PjsbjchLxdgnpejrhugqhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofekhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphuhTxpfxzhtug,hugqhuhmenyxpxmejs;
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuhMjojspi sbjs,hugqhuhmsufonfuyhmxynonfnugkhEj
zuphuplngb,hoxx,hoejhzjyy-lgxzghjffjgosnfhjgoe pnupo,hMjpopxr,hu
ynijsuy,huhbsjuohouyljs,huht pnfnug,hughenpoxsnug,hugqhoejhtxpo
qjynbeoa yychcx oea yhmjspxghxahanaoc,hzexhzx yqhijhuhpu fjhxshbusgnpe
axshLxdgnpejrhugqhLusjgngkhEjhzx yqhmsxrxljhoejthugqhpjohoejthxaak

Oejhpjfxgqhngpouyytjgohaxshoejhaxsjpoheuqhijjghsjfjnrjqhasxthoej
tjsfeugohugqhzuphgxohcjohjveu pojq;hQxyycheuqhijjghrjschutnuiyjhugq
bxxq-e txsjqhxahyuoj,hugqhoejhnqjuhxahoejhqnggjshmyjupjqhPojmug
UsluqcjrnofehasxthjrjschmxngohxahrnjzkhEjhzuphnghoejhtxpohynbeo-ejusojq
txxqkhOejsjhzjsjhozxhfnsf tpougfjphuhynooyjh gmyjupugo,hi ohoejpjhozx
fnsf tpougfjphzjsjhqsxzgjqhnghoejhpjuhxahbxxq-e txsjqhbunjochzenfe
ayxxqjqhoejhpx yhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhOejpjhozxhfnsf tpougfjphzjsj:
anspo,hoeuohxghtjjongbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoejhquchijaxsjhnghoej
posjjohejheuqhgxonfjqhoeuohejhzuphfxyqhugqhsjpjsrjqhznoehent,hugq
m oongbhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phaufjhugqhoejhaufo
oeuohejheuqhgxohfxtjhoxhpjjhoejthxshyjohoejthlgxzhxahenphussnruyhznoe
oejhs txsphejheuqhejusqhuix ohUgguhugqhRsxgplc,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
b jppjqhoeuohpxtjoengbhzuphzsxgbhijozjjghoejhe piugqhugqhznajk

OeuohzuphxgjhqnpubsjjuiyjhoengbkhOejhxoejshpynbeoychqnpubsjjuiyjhaufo
zuphoeuohoejhgjzhejuqhxahenphqjmusotjgo,hynljhuyyhgjzhejuqp,heuqhoej
sjm ouonxghuysjuqchxahuhojssniyjhmjspxg,hzexhbxoh mhuohpnvhx’fyxflhng
oejhtxsgngb,hzxsljqhynljhuhexspj,hugqhngpnpojqhxghenphp ixsqnguojp
zxslngbhnghoejhputjhzuckhTxsjxrjs,hoenphgjzhejuqheuqhoejha soejs
sjm ouonxghxahijngbhuhijushnghenphtuggjsp,hugqhzup,huffxsqngbhoxhuyy
sjmxsop,huhtughxahuhfyupphnghuyyhsjpmjfophoejhxmmxpnojhxahoeuohoxhzenfe
enphmsjqjfjppxsheuqhijyxgbjq,hugqhoxhzenfehPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuq
enoejsoxhijyxgbjqhentpjyakhXghoejhmsjrnx phquchPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuq
ummjusjqhuohoejhxaanfjhnghuh gnaxst,hugqhoejhgjzhfenjaheuqhijjghrjsc
uaauiyjhugqheuqhouyljqhoxhenthuphoxhughufw ungougfjkhFxgpjw jgoyc
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehqjjtjqhnohenphq ochoxhfuyyh mxghenthnghenp
gxg-xaanfnuyhqsjppkhOejhoex beohoeuohoejhgjzhfenjahtnbeohgxohojgqjshent
uhzusthsjfjmonxghzuphoejhxoejsh gmyjupugohoengbkhI ohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehngpongfonrjychajyohoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqh_fxtjhsx gq_huyy
snbeokh“Oejc’sjhuyyhmjxmyj,huyyhtjg,hynljh phmxxshpnggjsp;hzechijhgupoc
ugqhw ussjypxtj?”hejhoex beohuphejhzjgohngoxhoejhexojyk

“Bxxq-quc,hRuppnyc,”hejhpunq,hzuylngbhngoxhoejhfxssnqxshznoehenpheuo
fxfljqhxghxgjhpnqj,hugqhuqqsjppngbhuhaxxotughejhlgjz;h“zec,hcx ’rjhyjo
cx shzenpljsphbsxz!hYjrng,hg tijshpjrjg,hje?hOuljhtjh m,hmyjupjkhUgq
angqhx ohzejoejshFx gohUgnofelng”h(oenphzuphoejhgjzhejuq)h“np
sjfjnrngbk”

“Cjp,hpns,”hRuppnychsjpmxgqjq,hptnyngbkh“Cx ’rjhgxohijjghoxhpjjh phaxs
uhyxgbhzenyjk”

“Nhzuphejsjhcjpojsquc,hi ohuohoejhxoejshjgosugfjkhNphoenphg tijs
pjrjg?”

YjrnghzuphpougqngbhznoehuhmjupugohasxthOrjshnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxt,
tjup sngbhuhasjpehijusplng,hzejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohngk

“Zeuo!hcx hlnyyjqhent?”hfsnjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Zjyyhqxgj!hU
pej-ijus?hExzhusjhcx ,hUsenm!”

Ejhpexxlheugqphznoehoejhmjupugohugqhpuohqxzghxghoejhjqbjhxahuhfeuns,
znoex ohoulngbhxaahenphfxuohugqheuok

“Fxtj,houljhxaahcx shfxuohugqhpouchuhynooyj,”hpunqhYjrng,houlngbhenp
euok

“Gx,hNheurjg’ohontj;hN’rjhxgychyxxljqhnghaxshuhongchpjfxgq,”hugpzjsjq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofekhEjhoesjzhxmjghenphfxuo,hi ohuaojszusqphqnqhouljhno
xaa,hugqhpuohxghaxshuhzexyjhex s,houylngbhoxhYjrnghuix ohe gongbhugq
oejhtxpohngontuojhp i.jfopk

“Fxtj,hojyyhtj,hmyjupj,hzeuohcx hqnqhuisxuq?hZejsjheurjhcx hijjg?”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzejghoejhmjupugoheuqhbxgjk

“Xe,hNhpoucjqhnghBjstugc,hnghMs ppnu,hnghAsugfj,hugqhnghJgbyugq—gxohng
oejhfumnouyp,hi ohnghoejhtug aufo sngbhoxzgp,hugqhpuzhuhbsjuohqjuyhoeuo
zuphgjzhoxhtjkhUgqhN’thbyuqhNhzjgok”

“Cjp,hNhlgjzhcx shnqjuhxahoejhpxy onxghxahoejhyuixshw jponxgk”

“Gxohuhino:hnghS ppnuhoejsjhfughijhgxhyuixshw jponxgkhNghS ppnuhoej
w jponxghnphoeuohxahoejhsjyuonxghxahoejhzxslngbhmjxmyjhoxhoejhyugq;
oex behoejhw jponxghjvnpophoejsjhoxx—i ohoejsjhno’phuhtuoojshxa
sjmunsngbhzeuo’phijjghs ngjq,hzenyjhznoeh pkkkk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehynpojgjqhuoojgonrjychoxhYjrngk

“Cjp,hcjp!”hejhpunq,h“no’phrjschmxppniyjhcx ’sjhsnbeokhI ohN’thbyuq
cx ’sjhnghbxxqhpmnsnop,hugqhusjhe gongbhijusp,hugqhzxslngb,hugq
ngojsjpojqkhPeofejsiuoplchoxyqhtjhugxoejshpoxsc—ejhtjohcx —oeuohcx 
zjsjhnghp fehuhqjmsjppjqhpouoj,houylngbhxahgxoengbhi ohqjuoekkkk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohxahno?hN’rjhgxohbnrjgh mhoenglngbhxahqjuoe,”hpunqhYjrngk
“No’phos jhoeuohno’phenbehontjhNhzuphqjuq;hugqhoeuohuyyhoenphnp
gxgpjgpjkhNo’phoejhos oehN’thojyyngbhcx khNhqxhruy jhtchnqjuhugqhtc
zxslhuza yyc;hi ohnghsjuynochxgychfxgpnqjshoenp:huyyhoenphzxsyqhxahx sp
nphgxoengbhi ohuhpmjflhxahtnyqjz,hzenfeheuphbsxzgh mhxghuhongchmyugjok
Ugqhaxsh phoxhp mmxpjhzjhfugheurjhpxtjoengbhbsjuo—nqjup,hzxsl—no’phuyy
q pohugqhupejpk”

“I ohuyyhoeuo’phuphxyqhuphoejhenyyp,htchixc!”

“Nohnphxyq;hi ohqxhcx hlgxz,hzejghcx hbsupmhoenpha yyc,hoejghpxtjexz
jrjscoengbhijfxtjphxahgxhfxgpjw jgfjkhZejghcx h gqjspougqhoeuohcx hznyy
qnjhoxtxssxz,hnahgxohoxquc,hugqhgxoengbhznyyhijhyjao,hoejghjrjscoengb
nphpxh gntmxsougo!hUgqhNhfxgpnqjshtchnqjuhrjschntmxsougo,hi ohnoho sgp
x ohsjuyychoxhijhuph gntmxsougohoxx,hjrjghnahnohzjsjhfussnjqhx o,hup
qxngbhaxshoeuohijuskhPxhxgjhbxjphxghynrngb,hut pngbhxgjpjyahznoe
e gongb,hznoehzxsl—ugcoengbhpxhuphgxohoxhoenglhxahqjuoe!”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqhuhp ioyjhuaajfonxguojhptnyjhuphejhynpojgjq
oxhYjrngk

“Zjyy,hxahfx spj!hEjsjhcx ’rjhfxtjhsx gqhoxhtchmxngokhQxhcx hsjtjtijs
cx huooufljqhtjhaxshpjjlngbhjg.xctjgohnghynaj?hQxg’ohijhpxhpjrjsj,hX
txsuynpo!”

“Gx;huyyhoejhputj,hzeuo’phangjhnghynajhnpkkkk”hYjrnghejpnouojq—“xe,hN
qxg’ohlgxzkhUyyhNhlgxzhnphoeuohzjhpeuyyhpxxghijhqjuqk”

“Zechpxhpxxg?”

“Ugqhqxhcx hlgxz,hoejsj’phyjpphfeusthnghynaj,hzejghxgjhoenglphxahqjuoe,
i ohoejsj’phtxsjhmjufjk”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc,hoejhangnpehnphuyzucphoejhijpokhI ohNht pohijhbxngb,”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbjoongbh mhaxshoejhojgoehontjk

“Xe,hgx,hpouchuhino!”hpunqhYjrng,hljjmngbhentkh“Gxz,hzejghpeuyyhzjhpjj
jufehxoejshubung?hN’thbxngbhoxtxssxzk”

“N’thuhgnfjhmjspxg!hZec,hoeuo’ph. pohzeuohNhfutjhaxs!hCx hpntmycht po
fxtjhoxhqnggjshznoeh phoxquckhCx shisxoejs’phfxtngb,hugqhLusjgng,htc
isxoejs-ng-yuzk”

“Cx hqxg’ohtjughoxhpuchej’phejsj?”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhejhzugojqhoxhngw nsj
uix ohLnoockhEjheuqhejusqhuohoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhzngojshoeuohpejhzup
uohMjojspi sbhznoehejshpnpojs,hoejhznajhxahoejhqnmyxtuo,hugqhejhqnqhgxo
lgxzhzejoejshpejheuqhfxtjhiuflhxshgxo;hi ohejhfeugbjqhenphtngqhugqhqnq
gxohuplkh“Zejoejshpej’phfxtngbhxshgxo,hNhqxg’ohfusj,”hejhpunqhox
entpjyak

“Pxhcx ’yyhfxtj?”

“Xahfx spjk”

“Uohanrjhx’fyxfl,hoejg,hugqhgxohjrjgngbhqsjppk”

UgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehbxoh mhugqhzjgohqxzghijyxzhoxhoejhgjzhejuqhxa
enphqjmusotjgokhNgpongfoheuqhgxohtnpyjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhOej
ojssniyjhgjzhejuqho sgjqhx ohoxhijhughjvosjtjychutjguiyjhmjspxg,hugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehy gfejqhznoehenthugqhpoucjqhxg,hpxhoeuohnohzuphax s
x’fyxflhijaxsjhejhbxohoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek


Feumojsh8

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hxghfxtngbhiuflhasxthfe sfehpjsrnfj,heuqhpmjgo
oejhzexyjhtxsgngbhngqxxspkhEjheuqhozxhmnjfjphxahi pngjpphijaxsjhent
oeuohtxsgngb;hanspo,hoxhsjfjnrjhugqhpjgqhxghuhqjm ouonxghasxthoej
guonrjhosnijphzenfehzuphxghnophzuchoxhMjojspi sb,hugqhgxzhuohTxpfxz;
pjfxgqyc,hoxhzsnojhoejhmsxtnpjqhyjoojshoxhoejhyuzcjskhOejhqjm ouonxg,
oex behnoheuqhijjghp ttxgjqhuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phngponbuonxg,hzup
gxohznoex ohnophqnpfxtaxsongbhugqhjrjghqugbjsx phupmjfo,hugqhejhzup
byuqhejheuqhax gqhnohnghTxpfxzkhOejhtjtijsphxahoenphqjm ouonxgheuqhgxo
oejhpynbeojpohfxgfjmonxghxahoejnshq ochugqhoejhmusohoejchzjsjhoxhmyuck
Oejchguïrjychijynjrjqhoeuohnohzuphoejnshi pngjpphoxhyuchijaxsjhoej
fxttnppnxghoejnshgjjqphugqhoejhufo uyhfxgqnonxghxahoengbp,hugqhoxhupl
uppnpougfjhxahoejhbxrjsgtjgo,hugqh oojsychaunyjqhoxhbsupmhoeuohpxtjhxa
oejnshpouojtjgophugqhsjw jpophp mmxsojqhoejhfxgojgonxghxahoejhjgjtc’p
pnqj,hugqhpxhpmxnyjqhoejhzexyjhi pngjppkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzup
i pnychjgbubjqhznoehoejthaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,hqsjzh mhuhmsxbsuthaxshoejt
asxthzenfehoejchzjsjhgxohoxhqjmuso,hugqhxghqnptnppngbhoejthzsxojhu
yjoojshoxhMjojspi sbhaxshoejhb nqugfjhxahoejhqjm ouonxgkhEjheuqhenp
fenjahp mmxsohnghoenphuaaunshnghoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgukhPejhzuphu
pmjfnuynpohnghoejhtuoojshxahqjm ouonxgp,hugqhgxhxgjhlgjzhijoojshoeug
pejhexzhoxhtugubjhoejt,hugqhm ohoejthnghoejhzuchoejchpex yqhbxkhEurngb
fxtmyjojqhoenphoupl,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzsxojhoejhyjoojshoxhoej
yuzcjskhZnoex ohoejhpynbeojpohejpnouonxghejhburjhenthmjstnppnxghoxhufo
uphejhtnbeoh. qbjhijpokhNghoejhyjoojshejhjgfyxpjqhoesjjhxahRsxgplc’p
gxojphoxhUggu,hzenfehzjsjhnghoejhmxsoaxynxhejheuqhouljghuzuck

PngfjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhyjaohextjhznoehoejhngojgonxghxahgxo
sjo sgngbhoxhenphautnychubung,hugqhpngfjhejheuqhijjghuohoejhyuzcjs’p
ugqheuqhpmxljg,hoex behxgychoxhxgjhtug,hxahenphngojgonxg,hpngfj
jpmjfnuyychejheuqhosugpyuojqhoejhtuoojshasxthoejhzxsyqhxahsjuyhynajhox
oejhzxsyqhxahnglhugqhmumjs,hejheuqhbsxzghtxsjhugqhtxsjh pjqhoxhenphxzg
ngojgonxg,hugqhichgxzhqnpongfoychmjsfjnrjqhoejhajupninynochxahnop
jvjf onxgk

Ejhzuphpjuyngbhoejhjgrjyxmjhoxhoejhyuzcjs,hzejghejhejusqhoejhyx qhoxgjp
xahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phrxnfjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphqnpm ongbhznoe
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phpjsrugo,hugqhngpnpongbhxghijngbhuggx gfjqk

“Gxhtuoojs,”hoex beohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,h“pxht fehoejhijoojskhNhznyy
ngaxsthenthuohxgfjhxahtchmxpnonxghnghsjbusqhoxhenphpnpojs,hugqhjvmyung
zechnohnphNhfug’ohqngjhznoehentk”

“Fxtjhng!”hejhpunqhuyx q,hfxyyjfongbhenphmumjsp,hugqhm oongbhoejthng
oejhiyxoongb-mumjsk

“Oejsj,hcx hpjj,hcx ’sjhouylngbhgxgpjgpj,hugqhej’phuohextj!”hsjpmxgqjq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phrxnfj,huqqsjppngbhoejhpjsrugo,hzexheuqhsja pjqhox
yjohenthng,hugqhoulngbhxaahenphfxuohuphejhzjgo,hXiyxgplchzuyljqhngox
oejhsxxtkh“Zjyy,hN’thuza yychbyuqhN’rjhax gqhcx !hPxhNhexmjkkkk”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehijbughfejjsa yyck

“Nhfuggxohfxtj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhfxyqyc,hpougqngbhugqhgxo
uplngbhenphrnpnoxshoxhpnohqxzgk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhoex beohoxhmupphuohxgfjhngoxhoexpjhasnbnq
sjyuonxgphnghzenfehejhx beohoxhpougqhznoehoejhisxoejshxahuhznajhubungpo
zexthejhzuphijbnggngbhuhp nohaxshqnrxsfjkhI ohejheuqhgxohouljghngox
uffx gohoejhxfjughxahlngqyngjpphisnttngbhxrjshnghoejhejusohxahPojmug
Usluqcjrnofek

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehxmjgjqhznqjhenphfyjus,hpengngbhjcjpk

“Zechfug’ohcx ?hZeuohqxhcx htjug?”hejhupljqhnghmjsmyjvnoc,hpmjulngbhng
Asjgfekh“Xe,hi ohno’phuhmsxtnpjkhUgqhzj’sjhuyyhfx gongbhxghcx k”

“Nhzugohoxhojyyhcx hoeuohNhfug’ohqngjhuohcx shex pj,hijfu pjhoejhojstp
xahsjyuonxgpenmhzenfeheurjhjvnpojqhijozjjgh pht pohfjupjk”

“Exz?hExzhqxhcx htjug?hZeuohaxs?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehu
ptnyjk

“Ijfu pjhNhuthijbnggngbhughufonxghaxshqnrxsfjhubungpohcx shpnpojs,htc
znajkhNhx beohoxheurjkkkk”

I o,hijaxsjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhontjhoxhangnpehenphpjgojgfj,
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphijeurngbhgxohuohuyyhuphejheuqhjvmjfojqkhEj
bsxugjqhugqhpuglhngoxhughustfeunsk

“Gx,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!hZeuohusjhcx hpucngb?”hfsnjqhXiyxgplc,hugq
enphp aajsngbhzuphummusjgohnghenphaufjk

“Nohnphpxk”

“Jvf pjhtj,hNhfug’o,hNhfug’ohijynjrjhno!”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuohqxzg,hajjyngbhoeuohenphzxsqpheuqhgxoheuqhoej
jaajfohejhugonfnmuojq,hugqhoeuohnohzx yqhijh gurxnquiyjhaxshenthox
jvmyunghenphmxpnonxg,hugqhoeuo,hzeuojrjshjvmyuguonxgphejhtnbeohtulj,
enphsjyuonxgphznoehenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhzx yqhsjtungh gfeugbjqk

“Cjp,hNhuthisx beohoxhoejhmunga yhgjfjppnochxahpjjlngbhuhqnrxsfj,”hej
punqk

“Nhznyyhpuchxgjhoengb,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhNhlgxzhcx haxshug
jvfjyyjgo,h msnbeohtug;hNhlgxzhUggu—jvf pjhtj,hNhfug’ohfeugbjhtc
xmngnxghxahejs—axshuhbxxq,hughjvfjyyjgohzxtug;hugqhpx,hjvf pjhtj,hN
fuggxohijynjrjhnokhOejsjhnphpxtjhtnp gqjspougqngb,”hpunqhejk

“Xe,hnahnohzjsjhtjsjychuhtnp gqjspougqngb!kkk”

“Musqxg,hNh gqjspougq,”hngojsmxpjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“I ohxa
fx spjkkkkhXgjhoengb:hcx ht pohgxohufohngheupojkhCx ht pohgxo,hcx ht po
gxohufohngheupoj!”

“Nhuthgxohufongbhngheupoj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhfxyqyc,h“i ohxgj
fuggxohuplhuqrnfjhxahugcxgjhnghp fehuhtuoojskhNheurjhw nojhtuqjh mhtc
tngqk”

“Oenphnphuza y!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Nhzx yqhqxhxgjhoengb,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhNhijpjjfehcx ,hqxhno!”hejhpunqkh“Gxhufonxgheup
cjohijjghouljg,hnahNh gqjspougqhsnbeoyckhIjaxsjhcx houljhuqrnfj,hpjjhtc
znaj,houylhoxhejskhPejhyxrjphUgguhynljhuhpnpojs,hpejhyxrjphcx ,hugq
pej’phuhzxgqjsa yhzxtugkhAxshBxq’phpulj,houylhoxhejs!hQxhtjhoeuohaurxs,
Nhijpjjfehcx !”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmxgqjsjq,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehyxxljqhuohent
pctmuoejonfuyyc,hznoex ohngojss mongbhenphpnyjgfjk

“Cx hznyyhbxhoxhpjjhejs?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzkhOeuohzuph. pohzechNheurjhgxohijjghoxhpjjhcx khNhntubngj
x shsjyuonxgpht pohfeugbjk”

“Zechpx?hNhqxg’ohpjjhoeuokhUyyxzhtjhoxhijynjrjhoeuohumusohasxthx s
fxggjfonxghcx heurjhaxshtj,huohyjupohnghmuso,hoejhputjhasnjgqychajjyngb
Nheurjhuyzucpheuqhaxshcx hkkkhugqhpngfjsjhjpojjt,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hmsjppngbhenpheugqkh“Jrjghnahcx shzxspohp mmxpnonxgphzjsj
fxssjfo,hNhqxg’o—ugqhgjrjshzx yq—ouljhxghtcpjyahoxh. qbjhjnoejshpnqj,
ugqhNhpjjhgxhsjupxghzechx shsjyuonxgphpex yqhijhuaajfojqkhI ohgxz,hqx
oenp,hfxtjhugqhpjjhtchznajk”

“Zjyy,hzjhyxxlhuohoejhtuoojshqnaajsjgoyc,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
fxyqyckh“Exzjrjs,hzjhzxg’ohqnpf pphnok”

“Gx;hzechpex yqg’ohcx hfxtjhoxquchoxhqngj,hugczuc?hTchznaj’phjvmjfongb
cx khMyjupj,hqxhfxtjkhUgq,huixrjhuyy,houylhnohxrjshznoehejskhPej’phu
zxgqjsa yhzxtugkhAxshBxq’phpulj,hxghtchlgjjp,hNhntmyxsjhcx !”

“Nahcx hpxht fehznpehno,hNhznyyhfxtj,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
pnbengbk

Ugq,hugvnx phoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hejhngw nsjqhuix ohzeuo
ngojsjpojqhoejthixoe—oejhgjzhejuqhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phqjmusotjgo,
uhtughgxohcjohxyq,hzexheuqhp qqjgychijjghmsxtxojqhoxhpxhenbehu
mxpnonxgk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhmsjrnx pychajyohgxhynlngbhaxshFx go
Ugnofelng,hugqheuqhuyzucphqnaajsjqhasxthenthnghenphxmngnxgpkhI ohgxz,
asxthuhajjyngbhsjuqnychfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhxaanfnuyp—oeuoheuosjqhajyohic
xgjhzexheuphp aajsjqhuhqjajuohnghoejhpjsrnfjhaxshxgjhzexheuphsjfjnrjqhu
msxtxonxg,hejhfx yqhgxohjgq sjhentk

“Zjyy,heurjhcx hpjjghent?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehznoehuhtuynbgugo
ptnyjk

“Xahfx spj;hejhzuphuohx shpnoongbhcjpojsquckhEjhpjjtphoxhlgxzhenphzxsl
fumnouyyc,hugqhoxhijhrjschjgjsbjonfk”

“Cjp,hi ohzeuohnphenphjgjsbchqnsjfojqhox?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek
“Nphejhuntngbhuohqxngbhugcoengb,hxshpntmych gqxngbhzeuo’phijjghqxgj?
No’phoejhbsjuohtnpaxso gjhxahx shbxrjsgtjgo—oenphmumjshuqtngnposuonxg,
xahzenfehej’phuhzxsoechsjmsjpjgouonrjk”

“Sjuyyc,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohau yohxgjhfx yqhangqhznoehentkhEnphmxynfchN
qxg’ohlgxz,hi ohxgjhoengb—ej’phuhrjschgnfjhajyyxz,”hugpzjsjqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofekh“N’rjh. pohijjghpjjngbhent,hugqhej’phsjuyychuhfumnouy
ajyyxzkhZjhy gfejqhoxbjoejs,hugqhNhou beohenthexzhoxhtulj,hcx hlgxz
oeuohqsngl,hzngjhugqhxsugbjpkhNo’phpxhfxxyngbkhUgqhno’phuhzxgqjshej
qnqg’ohlgxzhnokhEjhynljqhnohuza yyckhGx,hsjuyychej’phuhfumnouyhajyyxzk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehbyugfjqhuohenphzuofek

“Zec,hbxxqhejurjgp,hno’phax shuysjuqc,hugqhN’rjhponyyhoxhbxhox
Qxybxr peng’p!hPxhmyjupjhfxtjhsx gqhoxhqnggjskhCx hfug’ohntubngjhexz
cx hznyyhbsnjrjhtchznajhugqhtjk”

OejhzuchnghzenfehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhx ohzup
rjschqnaajsjgohasxthoejhtuggjshnghzenfehejheuqhtjohentk

“N’rjhmsxtnpjq,hugqhN’yyhfxtj,”hejhugpzjsjqhzjusnyck

“Ijynjrjhtj,hNhummsjfnuojhno,hugqhNhexmjhcx hzxg’ohsjbsjohno,”hugpzjsjq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbk

Ugq,hm oongbhxghenphfxuohuphejhzjgo,hejhmuoojqhoejhaxxotughxghoejhejuq,
fe flyjq,hugqhzjgohx ok

“Uohanrjhx’fyxfl,hugqhgxohjrjgngbhqsjpp,hmyjupj,”hejhpex ojqhxgfjhtxsj,
o sgngbhuohoejhqxxsk


Feumojsh9

Nohzuphmupohanrj,hugqhpjrjsuyhb jpopheuqhuysjuqchussnrjq,hijaxsjhoej
expohentpjyahbxohextjkhEjhzjgohnghoxbjoejshznoehPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
LxdgnpejrhugqhMjpopxr,hzexheuqhsjufejqhoejhposjjohqxxshuohoejhputj
txtjgokhOejpjhzjsjhoejhozxhyjuqngbhsjmsjpjgouonrjphxahoejhTxpfxz
ngojyyjfo uyp,huphXiyxgplcheuqhfuyyjqhoejtkhIxoehzjsjhtjghsjpmjfojqhaxs
oejnshfeusufojshugqhoejnshngojyynbjgfjkhOejchsjpmjfojqhjufehxoejs,hi o
zjsjhnghfxtmyjojhugqhexmjyjpphqnpubsjjtjgoh mxghuytxpohjrjschp i.jfo,
gxohijfu pjhoejchijyxgbjqhoxhxmmxpnojhmusonjp,hi ohmsjfnpjychijfu pj
oejchzjsjhxahoejhputjhmusoch(oejnshjgjtnjphsja pjqhoxhpjjhugc
qnpongfonxghijozjjghoejnshrnjzp);hi o,hnghoeuohmusoc,hjufeheuqhenphxzg
pmjfnuyhpeuqjhxahxmngnxgkhUgqhpngfjhgxhqnaajsjgfjhnphyjpphjupnyc
xrjsfxtjhoeughoejhqnaajsjgfjhxahxmngnxghuix ohpjtn-uiposufohw jponxgp,
oejchgjrjshubsjjqhnghugchxmngnxg,hugqheuqhyxgb,hngqjjq,hijjghuff poxtjq
oxh.jjshznoex ohugbjs,hjufehuohoejhxoejs’phngfxssnbniyjhuijssuonxgpk

Oejchzjsjh. pohbxngbhnghuohoejhqxxs,houylngbhxahoejhzjuoejs,hzejg
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehxrjsoxxlhoejtkhNghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthoejsjhzjsj
uysjuqchpnoongbhMsngfjhUyjvugqjshQtnosnjrnofehPeofejsiuoplc,hcx gb
Peofejsiuoplc,hO sxropng,hLnooc,hugqhLusjgngk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuzhnttjqnuojychoeuohoengbphzjsjhgxohbxngbhzjyyhng
oejhqsuzngb-sxxthznoex ohentkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hnghejshijpohbsuchpnyl
bxzg,hxirnx pychzxssnjqhuix ohoejhfenyqsjg,hzexhzjsjhoxheurjhoejns
qnggjshichoejtpjyrjphnghoejhg spjsc,hugqhichejshe piugq’phuipjgfj,hzup
gxohjw uyhoxhoejhouplhxahtulngbhoejhmusochtnvhznoex ohentkhUyyhzjsj
pnoongbhynljhpxhtugchmsnjpop’hznrjphxghuhrnpnoh(pxhoejhxyqhmsngfj
jvmsjppjqhno),hxirnx pychzxgqjsngbhzechoejchzjsjhoejsj,hugqhm tmngbh m
sjtuslphpntmychoxhurxnqhijngbhpnyjgokhO sxropng—bxxq,hpntmyjhtug—ajyo
 gtnpouluiychuhanpehx ohxahzuojs,hugqhoejhptnyjhznoehzenfehenphoenfl
ynmphbsjjojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunq,huphmyungychuphzxsqp:h“Zjyy,hxyq
ixc,hcx heurjhmxmmjqhtjhqxzghnghuhyjusgjqhpjo!hUhqsnglngbhmusochgxz,hxs
oejh_Feâoju hqjphAyj sp_,hzx yqhijhtxsjhnghtchyngj!”hOejhxyqhmsngfjhpuo
nghpnyjgfj,henphisnbeohynooyjhjcjphzuofengbhLusjgnghasxthxgjhpnqj,hugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuzhoeuohejheuqhuysjuqchaxstjqhuhmesupjhoxhp th m
oeuohmxynonfnughxahzexthb jpophzjsjhngrnojqhoxhmusouljhuphoex behej
zjsjhuhpo sbjxgkhLnoochzuphyxxlngbhuohoejhqxxs,hfuyyngbh mhuyyhejs
jgjsbnjphoxhljjmhejshasxthiy pengbhuohoejhjgosugfjhxahLxgpougonghYjrngk
Cx gbhPeofejsiuoplc,hzexheuqhgxohijjghngosxq fjqhoxhLusjgng,hzuphoscngb
oxhyxxlhuphoex behejhzjsjhgxohnghoejhyjupohfxgpfnx phxahnokhLusjgng
entpjyaheuqhaxyyxzjqhoejhMjojspi sbhaupenxghaxshuhqnggjshznoehyuqnjp
ugqhzuphzjusngbhjrjgngbhqsjpphugqhuhzenojhonjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuz
ichenphaufjhoeuohejheuqhfxtjhpntmychoxhljjmhenphmsxtnpj,hugqhzup
mjsaxstngbhuhqnpubsjjuiyjhq ochnghijngbhmsjpjgohuohoenphbuoejsngbkhEj
zuphngqjjqhoejhmjspxghfenjaychsjpmxgpniyjhaxshoejhfenyyhijg tingbhuyy
oejhb jpophijaxsjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehfutjhngk

Xghjgojsngbhoejhqsuzngb-sxxthPojmughUsluqcjrnofehumxyxbndjq,hjvmyungngb
oeuohejheuqhijjghqjoungjqhichoeuohmsngfj,hzexhzuphuyzucphoejhpfumjbxuo
axshuyyhenphuipjgfjphugqh gm gfo uynonjp,hugqhnghxgjhtxtjgohejheuqhtuqj
uyyhoejhb jpophufw ungojqhznoehjufehxoejs,hugq,hisngbngbhoxbjoejs
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhPjsbjchLxdgnpejr,hpousojqhoejthxghu
qnpf ppnxghxahoejhS ppnanfuonxghxahMxyugq,hngoxhzenfehoejchnttjqnuojyc
my gbjqhznoehMjpopxrkhPyummngbhO sxropnghxghoejhpex yqjs,hejhzenpmjsjq
pxtjoengbhfxtnfhnghenphjus,hugqhpjohenthqxzghichenphznajhugqhoejhxyq
msngfjkhOejghejhoxyqhLnoochpejhzuphyxxlngbhrjschmsjoochoeuohjrjgngb,
ugqhmsjpjgojqhPeofejsiuoplchoxhLusjgngkhNghuhtxtjgohejheuqhpxhlgjuqjq
oxbjoejshoejhpxfnuyhqx behoeuohoejhqsuzngb-sxxthijfutjhrjschynrjyc,hugq
oejsjhzuphuhtjsschi ddhxahrxnfjpkhLxgpougonghYjrnghzuphoejhxgychmjspxg
zexheuqhgxohussnrjqkhI ohoenphzuphpxht fehoejhijoojs,huphbxngbhngoxhoej
qngngb-sxxt,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehax gqhoxhenphexssxshoeuohoejhmxsohugq
pejsscheuqhijjghmsxf sjqhasxthQjmsé,hugqhgxohasxthYjrc,hugq,hqnsjfongb
oeuohoejhfxufetughpex yqhijhpjgohxaahuphpmjjqnychuphmxppniyjhoxhYjrc’p,
ejhzuphbxngbhiuflhoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

Nghoejhqngngb-sxxthejhzuphtjohichLxgpougonghYjrngk

“N’thgxohyuoj?”

“Cx hfughgjrjshejymhijngbhyuoj!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,houlngbhenp
ustk

“Eurjhcx huhyxohxahmjxmyj?hZex’phejsj?”hupljqhYjrng,h guiyjhoxhejym
iy pengb,huphejhlgxfljqhoejhpgxzhxaahenphfumhznoehenphbyxrjk

“Uyyhx shxzghpjokhLnooc’phejsjkhFxtjhuyxgb,hN’yyhngosxq fjhcx hox
Lusjgngk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,haxshuyyhenphynijsuyhrnjzp,hzuphzjyyhuzusjhoeuohox
tjjohLusjgnghzuphp sjhoxhijhajyohuhayuoojsngbhqnpongfonxg,hugqhpx
osjuojqhenphijpohasnjgqphoxhoenphexgxskhI ohuohoeuohngpougohLxgpougong
Yjrnghzuphgxohnghuhfxgqnonxghoxhajjyhuyyhoejhbsuonanfuonxghxahtulngb
p fehughufw ungougfjkhEjheuqhgxohpjjghLnoochpngfjhoeuohtjtxsuiyj
jrjgngbhzejghejhtjohRsxgplc,hgxohfx gongb,hoeuohnp,hoejhtxtjgohzejghej
euqheuqhuhbyntmpjhxahejshxghoejhenbesxuqkhEjheuqhlgxzghuohoejhixooxthxa
enphejusohoeuohejhzx yqhpjjhejshejsjhoxquckhI ohoxhljjmhenphoex beop
asjj,hejheuqhosnjqhoxhmjsp uqjhentpjyahoeuohejhqnqhgxohlgxzhnokhGxz
zejghejhejusqhoeuohpejhzuphejsj,hejhzuphp qqjgychfxgpfnx phxahp fe
qjynbeo,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhxahp fehqsjuq,hoeuohenphisjuoehaunyjqhent
ugqhejhfx yqhgxoh oojshzeuohejhzugojqhoxhpuck

“Zeuohnphpejhynlj,hzeuohnphpejhynlj?hYnljhzeuohpejh pjqhoxhij,hxshynlj
zeuohpejhzuphnghoejhfussnubj?hZeuohnahQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxyqhoej
os oe?hZechpex yqg’ohnohijhoejhos oe?”hejhoex beok

“Xe,hmyjupj,hngosxq fjhtjhoxhLusjgng,”hejhisx beohx ohznoehughjaaxso,
ugqhznoehuhqjpmjsuojychqjojstngjqhpojmhejhzuyljqhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt
ugqhijejyqhejsk

Pejhzuphgxohoejhputjhuphpejh pjqhoxhij,hgxshzuphpejhuphpejheuqhijjghng
oejhfussnubj;hpejhzuphw nojhqnaajsjgok

Pejhzuphpfusjq,hpec,hpeutj-aufjq,hugqhponyyhtxsjhfeustngbhasxthnokhPej
puzhenthoejhrjschngpougohejhzuyljqhngoxhoejhsxxtkhPejheuqhijjg
jvmjfongbhentkhPejhzuphqjynbeojq,hugqhpxhfxga pjqhuohejshxzghqjynbeo
oeuohoejsjhzuphuhtxtjgo,hoejhtxtjgohzejghejhzjgoh mhoxhejshpnpojshugq
byugfjqhubunghuohejs,hzejghpej,hugqhej,hugqhQxyyc,hzexhpuzhnohuyy,
oex beohpejhzx yqhisjulhqxzghugqhzx yqhijbnghoxhfsckhPejhfsntpxgjq,
o sgjqhzenoj,hfsntpxgjqhubung,hugqhbsjzhaungo,hzunongbhznoehw nrjsngb
ynmphaxshenthoxhfxtjhoxhejskhEjhzjgoh mhoxhejs,hixzjq,hugqhejyqhx ohenp
eugqhznoex ohpmjulngbkhJvfjmohaxshoejhpynbeohw nrjshxahejshynmphugqhoej
txnpo sjhnghejshjcjphoeuohtuqjhoejthisnbeojs,hejshptnyjhzuphuytxpohfuyt
uphpejhpunq:

“Exzhyxgbhnohnphpngfjhzj’rjhpjjghjufehxoejs!”hugqhznoehqjpmjsuoj
qjojstnguonxghpejhmsjppjqhenpheugqhznoehejshfxyqheugqk

“Cx ’rjhgxohpjjghtj,hi ohN’rjhpjjghcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hznoehuhsuqnugo
ptnyjhxaheummngjppkh“Nhpuzhcx hzejghcx hzjsjhqsnrngbhasxthoejhsunyzuc
pouonxghoxhJsb pexrxk”

“Zejg?”hpejhupljq,hzxgqjsngbk

“Cx hzjsjhqsnrngbhoxhJsb pexrx,”hpunqhYjrng,hajjyngbhuphnahejhzx yqhpxi
znoehoejhsumo sjhoeuohzuphayxxqngbhenphejusokh“UgqhexzhqusjqhN
uppxfnuojhuhoex beohxahugcoengbhgxohnggxfjgohznoehoenphox fengb
fsjuo sj?hUgq,hcjp,hNhqxhijynjrjhno’phos jhzeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxyq
tj,”hejhoex beok

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhenthichoejhusthugqhyjqhenthuzuchoxhLusjgngk

“Yjohtjhngosxq fjhcx k”hEjhtjgonxgjqhoejnshgutjpk

“Rjschbyuqhoxhtjjohcx hubung,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfxyqyc,
peulngbheugqphznoehYjrngk

“Cx husjhufw ungojq?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehupljqhnghp smsnpjk

“Zjhpmjgohoesjjhex sphoxbjoejshnghoejhosung,”hpunqhYjrnghptnyngb,h“i o
bxohx o,h. pohuphnghuhtupw jsuqj,hw nojhtcponanjq—uohyjupohNhzupk”

“Gxgpjgpj!hFxtjhuyxgb,hmyjupj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hmxngongbhng
oejhqnsjfonxghxahoejhqngngb-sxxtk

Oejhtjghzjgohngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxthugqhzjgoh mhoxhuhouiyj,hyunqhznoehpnv
pxsophxahpmnsnophugqhuphtugchlngqphxahfejjpj,hpxtjhznoehynooyjhpnyrjs
pmuqjphugqhpxtjhznoex o,hfurnus,hejssngbp,hmsjpjsrjphxahrusnx phlngqp,
ugqhmyuojphznoehpynfjphxahAsjgfehisjuqk

Oejhtjghpoxxqhsx gqhoejhposxgb-ptjyyngbhpmnsnophugqhpuyohqjynfufnjp,
ugqhoejhqnpf ppnxghxahoejhS ppnanfuonxghxahMxyugqhijozjjghLxdgnpejr,
Lusjgng,hugqhMjpopxrhqnjqhqxzghnghugonfnmuonxghxahqnggjsk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuph gjw uyjqhnghenphplnyyhnghzngqngbh mhoejhtxpo
ejuojqhugqhpjsnx phusb tjgohichpxtjh gjvmjfojqhmngfehxahUoonfhpuyohoeuo
feugbjqhoejhqnpmxpnonxghxahenphxmmxgjgokhEjhqnqhoenphgxzk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhijjghtungoungngbhoeuohoejhS ppnanfuonxghxa
Mxyugqhfx yqhxgychijhuffxtmynpejqhuphuhsjp yohxahyusbjshtjup sjphzenfe
x beohoxhijhngosxq fjqhichoejhS ppnughbxrjsgtjgok

Mjpopxrhngpnpojqhoeuohxgjhfx goschfughxgychuipxsihugxoejshzejghnohnp
oejhtxsjhqjgpjychmxm yuojqk

Lxdgnpejrhuqtnoojqhixoehmxngop,hi ohznoehyntnouonxgpkhUphoejchzjsj
bxngbhx ohxahoejhqsuzngb-sxxthoxhfxgfy qjhoejhusb tjgo,hLxdgnpejrhpunq,
ptnyngb:

“Px,hoejg,haxshoejhS ppnanfuonxghxahx shaxsjnbghmxm yuonxgphoejsjhnp
i ohxgjhtjoexq—oxhisngbh mhuphtugchfenyqsjghuphxgjhfugkhTchisxoejshugq
Nhusjhojssniychnghau yo,hNhpjjkhCx htussnjqhtjg,hjpmjfnuyychcx ,hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,husjhoejhsjuyhmuosnxop:hzeuohg tijsheurjhcx hsjufejq?”hej
punq,hptnyngbhbjgnuyychuohoejnshexpohugqhexyqngbhx ohuhongchzngj-byupp
oxhentk

Jrjscxgjhyu bejq,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehmusonf yushbxxqhe txsk

“Xe,hcjp,hoeuo’phoejhijpohtjoexq!”hejhpunq,ht gfengbhfejjpjhugqhanyyngb
oejhzngj-byupphznoehuhpmjfnuyhpxsohxahpmnsnokhOejhfxgrjspuonxghqsxmmjq
uohoejh.jpok

“OenphfejjpjhnphgxohiuqkhPeuyyhNhbnrjhcx hpxtj?”hpunqhoejhtupojshxahoej
ex pjkh“Zec,heurjhcx hijjghbxngbhnghaxshbctguponfphubung?”hejhupljq
Yjrng,hmngfengbhenpht pfyjhznoehenphyjaoheugqkhYjrnghptnyjq,hijgohenp
ust,hugqh gqjshPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phangbjsphoejht pfyjphpzjyyjqh m
ynljhuhpx gqhfejjpj,heusqhuphuhlgxihxahnsxg,hoesx behoejhangjhfyxoehxa
oejhfxuok

“Zeuohinfjmp!hUhmjsajfohPutpxg!”

“Nhntubngjhbsjuohposjgboehnphgjjqjqhaxshe gongbhijusp,”hxipjsrjqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hzexheuqhoejhtnponjpohgxonxgphuix ohoejhfeupjkhEjhf o
xaahugqhpmsjuqhznoehfejjpjhuhzuajshxahisjuqhangjhuphuhpmnqjs-zjik

Yjrnghptnyjqk

“GxohuohuyykhW nojhoejhfxgosusc;huhfenyqhfughlnyyhuhijus,”hejhpunq,
znoehuhpynbeohixzhtxrngbhupnqjhaxshoejhyuqnjp,hzexhzjsjhummsxufengbhoej
ouiyjk

“Cx heurjhlnyyjqhuhijus,hN’rjhijjghoxyq!”hpunqhLnooc,hoscngb
uppnq x pychoxhfuofehznoehejshaxslhuhmjsrjspjht pesxxthoeuohzx yqhpynm
uzuc,hugqhpjoongbhoejhyufjhw nrjsngbhxrjshejshzenojhustkh“Usjhoejsj
ijusphxghcx shmyufj?”hpejhuqqjq,ho sgngbhejshfeustngbhynooyjhejuqhox
enthugqhptnyngbk

Oejsjhzuphummusjgoychgxoengbhjvosuxsqnguschnghzeuohpejhpunq,hi ohzeuo
 g oojsuiyjhtjugngbhoejsjhzuphaxshenthnghjrjschpx gq,hnghjrjscho sghxa
ejshynmp,hejshjcjp,hejsheugqhuphpejhpunqhno!hOejsjhzuphjgosjuochaxs
axsbnrjgjpp,hugqhos pohnghent,hugqhojgqjsgjpp—pxao,hontnq
ojgqjsgjpp—ugqhmsxtnpjhugqhexmjhugqhyxrjhaxshent,hzenfehejhfx yqhgxo
i ohijynjrjhnghugqhzenfehfexljqhenthznoeheummngjppk

“Gx,hzj’rjhijjghe gongbhnghoejhOrjshmsxrngfjkhNohzuphfxtngbhiuflhasxt
oejsjhoeuohNhtjohcx sh_iju -asèsj_hnghoejhosung,hxshcx sh_iju -asèsj’p_
isxoejs-ng-yuz,”hejhpunqhznoehuhptnyjkh“Nohzuphughut pngbhtjjongbk”

Ugqhejhijbughojyyngbhznoehqsxyyhbxxq-e txshexz,huaojshgxohpyjjmngbhuyy
gnbeo,hejheuq,hzjusngbhughxyqha s-yngjq,ha yy-plnsojqhfxuo,hbxohngox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phfxtmusotjgok

“Oejhfxgq foxs,haxsbjoongbhoejhmsxrjsi,hzx yqheurjhfe fljqhtjhx ohxg
uffx gohxahtchuoonsj;hi ohoejsj mxghNhijbughjvmsjppngbhtchajjyngbphng
jyjruojqhyugb ubj,hugqhkkkhcx ,hoxx,”hejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhLusjgnghugq
axsbjoongbhenphgutj,h“uohanspohzx yqheurjhj.jfojqhtjhxghoejhbsx gqhxa
oejhxyqhfxuo,hi ohuaojszusqphcx hoxxlhtchmuso,haxshzenfehNhuthjvosjtjyc
bsuoja yk”

“Oejhsnbeophxahmuppjgbjsphbjgjsuyychoxhfexxpjhoejnshpjuophusjhoxx
nyy-qjangjq,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hs iingbhoejhonmphxahenp
angbjsphxghenpheugqljsfenjak

“Nhpuzhcx hzjsjhngh gfjsoungochuix ohtj,”hpunqhYjrng,hptnyngb
bxxq-guo sjqyc,h“i ohNhtuqjheupojhoxhmy gbjhngoxhngojyyjfo uy
fxgrjspuonxghoxhptxxoehxrjshoejhqjajfophxahtchuoonsjk”hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hzenyjhejhljmoh mhuhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejnshexpojpp,heuqhxgj
jushaxshenphisxoejs,hugqhejhbyugfjqhuplugfjhuohentkh“Zeuohnphoejhtuoojs
znoehenthoxquc?hZechp fehuhfxgw jsngbhejsx?”hejhoex beokhEjhqnqhgxo
lgxzhoeuohYjrnghzuphajjyngbhuphoex behejheuqhbsxzghzngbpkhYjrnghlgjz
pejhzuphynpojgngbhoxhenphzxsqphugqhoeuohpejhzuphbyuqhoxhynpojghoxhentk
UgqhoenphzuphoejhxgychoengbhoeuohngojsjpojqhentkhGxohnghoeuohsxxthxgyc,
i ohnghoejhzexyjhzxsyq,hoejsjhjvnpojqhaxshenthxgychentpjya,hznoe
jgxstx pychngfsjupjqhntmxsougfjhugqhqnbgnochnghenphxzghjcjp,hugqhpejk
Ejhajyohentpjyahxghuhmnggufyjhoeuohtuqjhenthbnqqc,hugqhaushuzuchqxzg
ijyxzhzjsjhuyyhoexpjhgnfjhjvfjyyjgohLusjgngp,hXiyxgplcp,hugqhuyyhoej
zxsyqk

W nojhznoex ohuoosufongbhgxonfj,hznoex ohbyugfngbhuohoejt,huphoex be
oejsjhzjsjhgxhxoejshmyufjphyjao,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehm ohYjrnghugq
Lnoochpnqjhichpnqjk

“Xe,hcx htuchuphzjyyhpnohoejsj,”hejhpunqhoxhYjrngk

Oejhqnggjshzuphuphfexnfjhuphoejhfengu,hnghzenfehPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzup
uhfxggxnppj skhOejh_px mjhTusnj-Yx npj_hzuphuhpmyjgqnqhp ffjpp;hoej
ongchmnjphjuojghznoehnohtjyojqhnghoejhtx oehugqhzjsjhnssjmsxufeuiyjk
OejhozxhaxxotjghugqhTuorjc,hnghzenojhfsuruop,hqnqhoejnshq ochznoehoej
qnpejphugqhzngjph gxios pnrjyc,hw njoyc,hugqhpznaoyckhXghoejhtuojsnuy
pnqjhoejhqnggjshzuphuhp ffjpp;hnohzuphgxhyjpphpxhxghoejhnttuojsnuykhOej
fxgrjspuonxg,huohontjphbjgjsuyhugqhuohontjphijozjjghngqnrnq uyp,hgjrjs
mu pjq,hugqhoxzusqphoejhjgqhoejhfxtmugchzuphpxhynrjychoeuohoejhtjghsxpj
asxthoejhouiyj,hznoex ohpoxmmngbhpmjulngb,hugqhjrjghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehoeuzjqk


Feumojsh10

Mjpopxrhynljqhoesupengbhughusb tjgohx ohoxhoejhjgq,hugqhzuphgxo
puonpanjqhznoehPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phzxsqp,hjpmjfnuyychuphejhajyohoej
ng. ponfjhxahenphrnjzk

“Nhqnqhgxohtjug,”hejhpunqhxrjshoejhpx m,huqqsjppngbhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,h“tjsjhqjgpnochxahmxm yuonxghuyxgj,hi ohnghfxg. gfonxg
znoeha gqutjgouyhnqjup,hugqhgxohichtjugphxahmsngfnmyjpk”

“Nohpjjtphoxhtj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhyugb nqyc,hugqhznoehgx
eupoj,h“oeuohoeuo’phoejhputjhoengbkhNghtchxmngnxg,hngay jgfjhxrjs
ugxoejshmjxmyjhnphxgychmxppniyjhoxhoejhmjxmyjhzenfeheuphoejhenbejs
qjrjyxmtjgo,hzenfekkkk”

“I ohoeuo’ph. pohoejhw jponxg,”hMjpopxrhisxljhnghnghenphiuppkhEjhzup
uyzucphnghuhe sschoxhpmjul,hugqhpjjtjqhuyzucphoxhm ohenphzexyjhpx y
ngoxhzeuohejhzuphpucngbkh“Nghzeuohusjhzjhoxhtuljhenbejshqjrjyxmtjgo
fxgpnpo?hOejhJgbynpe,hoejhAsjgfe,hoejhBjstugp,hzenfehnphuohoejhenbejpo
poubjhxahqjrjyxmtjgo?hZenfehxahoejthznyyhguonxguyndjhoejhxoejs?hZjhpjj
oejhSengjhmsxrngfjpheurjhijjgho sgjqhAsjgfe,hi ohoejhBjstugphusjhgxohuo
uhyxzjshpoubj!”hejhpex ojqkh“Oejsjhnphugxoejshyuzhuohzxslhoejsjk”

“Nhaugfchoeuohoejhbsjuojshngay jgfjhnphuyzucphxghoejhpnqjhxahos j
fnrnynduonxg,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpynbeoychynaongbhenp
jcjisxzpk

“I ohzeuohusjhzjhoxhyuchqxzghuphoejhx ozusqhpnbgphxahos j
fnrnynduonxg?”hpunqhMjpopxrk

“Nhntubngjhp fehpnbgphusjhbjgjsuyychrjschzjyyhlgxzg,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

“I ohusjhoejcha yychlgxzg?”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehm ohnghznoehuhp ioyj
ptnyjkh“Nohnphoejhuffjmojqhrnjzhgxzhoeuohsjuyhf yo sjht pohijhm sjyc
fyuppnfuy;hi ohzjhpjjhtxpohngojgpjhqnpm ojphxghjufehpnqjhxahoej
w jponxg,hugqhoejsjhnphgxhqjgcngbhoeuohoejhxmmxpnojhfutmheuphposxgb
mxngophnghnophaurxsk”

“Cx husjhaxshfyuppnfp,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofekhZnyyhcx houljhsjqhzngj?”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Nhuthgxohjvmsjppngbhtchxzghxmngnxghxahjnoejshaxsthxahf yo sj,”hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehpunq,hexyqngbhx ohenphbyupphznoehuhptnyjhxahfxgqjpfjgpnxg,
uphoxhuhfenyqkh“Nhxgychpuchoeuohixoehpnqjpheurjhposxgbhusb tjgophox
p mmxsohoejt,”hejhzjgohxg,huqqsjppngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Tc
pctmuoenjphusjhfyuppnfuyhasxthjq fuonxg,hi ohnghoenphqnpf ppnxghNhut
mjspxguyych guiyjhoxhussnrjhuohuhfxgfy pnxgkhNhpjjhgxhqnpongfohbsx gqp
axshfyuppnfuyhpo qnjphijngbhbnrjghuhmsjjtngjgfjhxrjshpfnjgonanf
po qnjpk”

“Oejhguo suyhpfnjgfjpheurjh. pohuphbsjuohughjq fuonxguyhruy j,”hm ohng
Mjpopxrkh“Ouljhuposxgxtc,houljhixougc,hxshdxxyxbchznoehnophpcpojthxa
bjgjsuyhmsngfnmyjpk”

“Nhfuggxohw nojhubsjjhznoehoeuo,”hsjpmxgqjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeh“No
pjjtphoxhtjhoeuohxgjht pohuqtnohoeuohoejhrjschmsxfjpphxahpo qcngbhoej
axstphxahyugb ubjheuphuhmjf ynusychaurxsuiyjhngay jgfjhxghngojyyjfo uy
qjrjyxmtjgokhTxsjxrjs,hnohfuggxohijhqjgnjqhoeuohoejhngay jgfjhxahoej
fyuppnfuyhu oexsphnphnghoejhenbejpohqjbsjjhtxsuy,hzenyj,h gaxso guojyc,
znoehoejhpo qchxahoejhguo suyhpfnjgfjphusjhuppxfnuojqhoejhauypjhugq
gxvnx phqxfosngjphzenfehusjhoejhf spjhxahx shquck”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzx yqheurjhpunqhpxtjoengb,hi ohMjpopxrhngojss mojq
enthnghenphsnfehiuppkhEjhijbughzustychfxgojpongbhoejh. ponfjhxahoenp
rnjzkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzunojqhpjsjgjychoxhpmjul,hxirnx pychznoehu
fxgrngfngbhsjmychsjuqck

“I o,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hptnyngbhp ioyc,hugqhuqqsjppngbhLusjgng,
“Xgjht pohuyyxzhoeuohoxhzjnbehuyyhoejhuqrugoubjphugqhqnpuqrugoubjphxa
fyuppnfuyhugqhpfnjgonanfhpo qnjphnphuhqnaanf yohoupl,hugqhoejhw jponxg
zenfehaxsthxahjq fuonxghzuphoxhijhmsjajssjqhzx yqhgxoheurjhijjghpx
w nflychugqhfxgfy pnrjychqjfnqjqhnahoejsjheuqhgxohijjghnghaurxshxa
fyuppnfuyhjq fuonxg,huphcx hjvmsjppjqhnoh. pohgxz,hnophtxsuy—_qnpxgphyj
txo_—ugon-gnenynpohngay jgfjk”

“ gqx iojqyck”

“Nahnoheuqhgxohijjghaxshoejhqnpongfonrjhmsxmjsochxahugon-gnenynponf
ngay jgfjhxghoejhpnqjhxahfyuppnfuyhpo qnjp,hzjhpex yqheurjhfxgpnqjsjq
oejhp i.jfohtxsj,heurjhzjnbejqhoejhusb tjgophxghixoehpnqjp,”hpunq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehznoehuhp ioyjhptnyj,h“zjhpex yqheurjhbnrjghjyixz-sxxt
oxhixoehojgqjgfnjpkhI ohgxzhzjhlgxzhoeuohoejpjhynooyjhmnyyphxa
fyuppnfuyhyjusgngbhmxppjpphoejhtjqnfnguyhmsxmjsochxahugon-gnenynpt,hugq
zjhixyqychmsjpfsnijhoejthoxhx shmuonjgopkkkkhI ohzeuohnahoejcheuqhgx
p fehtjqnfnguyhmsxmjsoc?”hejhzx gqh mhe txsx pyck

UohPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phynooyjhmnyyp,hjrjscxgjhyu bejq;hO sxropnghng
jpmjfnuyhsxusjqhyx qychugqh.xrnuyyc,hbyuqhuohyupohoxheurjhax gq
pxtjoengbhoxhyu behuo,huyyhejhjrjshyxxljqhaxshnghynpojgngbhox
fxgrjspuonxgk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhgxohtuqjhuhtnpouljhnghngrnongbhMjpopxrkhZnoe
Mjpopxrhngojyyjfo uyhfxgrjspuonxghgjrjshayubbjqhaxshughngpougok
QnsjfoychPjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhfxgfy qjqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehenp
.jpo,hMjpopxrhmsxtmoychpousojqhuhgjzhxgjk

“Nhfug’ohubsjjhjrjg,”hpunqhej,h“oeuohoejhbxrjsgtjgoheuqhoeuohuntkhOej
bxrjsgtjgohxirnx pychnphb nqjqhichuiposufohfxgpnqjsuonxgp,hugqhsjtungp
ngqnaajsjgohoxhoejhngay jgfjhnophtjup sjphtuchjvjsfnpjkhOejhjq fuonxg
xahzxtjg,haxshngpougfj,hzx yqhguo suyychijhsjbusqjqhuphynljychoxhij
eusta y,hi ohoejhbxrjsgtjgohxmjgphpfexxyphugqh gnrjspnonjphaxshzxtjgk”

Ugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghuohxgfjhmuppjqhoxhoejhgjzhp i.jfohxahoejhjq fuonxg
xahzxtjgk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehjvmsjppjqhoejhnqjuhoeuohoejhjq fuonxghxahzxtjghnp
umohoxhijhfxgax gqjqhznoehoejhjtugfnmuonxghxahzxtjg,hugqhoeuohnohnp
xgychpxhoeuohnohfughijhfxgpnqjsjqhqugbjsx pk

“Nhfxgpnqjs,hxghoejhfxgosusc,hoeuohoejhozxhw jponxgphusjhngpjmusuiyc
fxggjfojqhoxbjoejs,”hpunqhMjpopxr;h“nohnphuhrnfnx phfnsfyjkhZxtughnp
qjmsnrjqhxahsnbeophasxthyuflhxahjq fuonxg,hugqhoejhyuflhxahjq fuonxg
sjp yophasxthoejhuipjgfjhxahsnbeopkhZjht pohgxohaxsbjohoeuohoej
p i.jfonxghxahzxtjghnphpxhfxtmyjoj,hugqhquojphasxthp fehubjphiuflhoeuo
zjhusjhxaojgh gznyyngbhoxhsjfxbgndjhoejhb yahoeuohpjmusuojphoejthasxt
 p,”hpunqhejk

“Cx hpunqhsnbeop,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzunongbhonyyhMjpopxrheuq
angnpejq,h“tjugngbhoejhsnbeohxahpnoongbhxgh. snjp,hxahrxongb,hxa
msjpnqngbhuohxaanfnuyhtjjongbp,hoejhsnbeohxahjgojsngbhoejhfnrny
pjsrnfj,hxahpnoongbhnghmusynutjgokkkk”

“ gqx iojqyck”

“I ohnahzxtjg,huphuhsusjhjvfjmonxg,hfughxff mchp fehmxpnonxgp,hnohpjjtp
oxhtjhcx husjhzsxgbhngh pngbhoejhjvmsjppnxgh‘snbeopk’hNohzx yqhijhtxsj
fxssjfohoxhpuchq onjpkhJrjschtughznyyhubsjjhoeuohnghqxngbhoejhq ochxahu
. sctug,huhznogjpp,huhojyjbsumehfyjsl,hzjhajjyhzjhusjhmjsaxstngb
q onjpkhUgqhoejsjaxsjhnohzx yqhijhfxssjfohoxhpuchoeuohzxtjghusjhpjjlngb
q onjp,hugqhw nojhyjbnontuojyckhUgqhxgjhfughi ohpctmuoendjhznoehoenp
qjpnsjhoxhuppnpohnghoejhbjgjsuyhyuixshxahtugk”

“W nojhpx,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuppjgojqkh“Oejhw jponxg,hNhntubngj,
nphpntmychzejoejshoejchusjhanoojqhaxshp fehq onjpk”

“Oejchznyyhtxpohynljychijhmjsajfoychanoojq,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
“zejghjq fuonxgheuphijfxtjhbjgjsuyhutxgbhoejtkhZjhpjjhoenpkkkk”

“Exzhuix ohoejhmsxrjsi?”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,hzexheuqhuhyxgbhzenyjhijjg
ngojgohxghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,henphynooyjhfxtnfuyhjcjphoznglyngbkh“Nhfug
puchnohijaxsjhtchqu beojs:hejsheunshnphyxgb,hijfu pjhejshznohnpkkkk”

“. pohzeuohoejchoex beohxahoejhgjbsxjphijaxsjhoejnshjtugfnmuonxg!”hpunq
Mjpopxrhugbsnyck

“Zeuohpjjtphposugbjhoxhtjhnphoeuohzxtjghpex yqhpjjlhasjpehq onjp,”hpunq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,h“zenyjhzjhpjj,h geummnyc,hoeuohtjgh p uyychoschox
urxnqhoejtk”

“Q onjphusjhix gqh mhznoehsnbeop—mxzjs,htxgjc,hexgxs;hoexpjhusjhzeuo
zxtjghusjhpjjlngb,”hpunqhMjpopxrk

“. pohuphoex behNhpex yqhpjjlhoejhsnbeohoxhijhuhzjo-g spjhugqhajjy
ng. sjqhijfu pjhzxtjghusjhmunqhaxshoejhzxsl,hzenyjhgxhxgjhznyyhoulj
tj,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjk

O sxropnghjvmyxqjqhnghuhyx qhsxushxahyu beojshugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
sjbsjoojqhoeuohejheuqhgxohtuqjhoenphfxtmusnpxgkhJrjghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjqk

“Cjp,hi ohuhtughfug’ohg spjhuhiuic,”hpunqhMjpopxr,h“zenyjhuhzxtugkkkk”

“Gx,hoejsjhzuphughJgbynpetughzexhqnqhp flyjhenphiuichxghixusqhpenm,”
punqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hajjyngbhoenphasjjqxthnghfxgrjspuonxghmjstnppniyj
ijaxsjhenphxzghqu beojspk

“Oejsjhusjhuphtugchp fehJgbynpetjghuphoejsjhzx yqhijhzxtjghxaanfnuyp,”
punqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Cjp,hi ohzeuohnphuhbnsyhoxhqxhzexheuphgxhautnyc?”hm ohnghPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hoenglngbhxahTupeuhOfeninpxru,hzexthejheuqheuqhnghenphtngq
uyyhuyxgb,hnghpctmuoendngbhznoehMjpopxrhugqhp mmxsongbhentk

“Nahoejhpoxschxahp fehuhbnsyhzjsjhoexsx beychpnaojq,hcx hzx yqhangqhpej
euqhuiugqxgjqhuhautnyc—ejshxzghxshuhpnpojs’p,hzejsjhpejhtnbeoheurj
ax gqhuhzxtug’phq onjp,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhisxljhngh gjvmjfojqychnghu
oxgjhxahjvupmjsuonxg,hmsxiuiychp pmjfongbhzeuohpxsohxahbnsyhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehzuphoenglngbhxak

“I ohzjhouljhx shpougqhxghmsngfnmyjhuphoejhnqjuy,”hsjmynjqhMjpopxrhng
enphtjyyxzhiuppkh“Zxtughqjpnsjphoxheurjhsnbeop,hoxhijhngqjmjgqjgo,
jq fuojqkhPejhnphxmmsjppjq,he tnynuojqhichoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahejs
qnpuinynonjpk”

“UgqhN’thxmmsjppjqhugqhe tnynuojqhoeuohoejchzxg’ohjgbubjhtjhuohoej
Ax gqyngb,”hoejhxyqhmsngfjhpunqhubung,hoxhoejhe bjhqjynbeohxa
O sxropng,hzexhnghenphtnsoehqsxmmjqhenphupmusub phznoehoejhoenflhjgqhng
oejhpu fjk


Feumojsh11

JrjscxgjhoxxlhmusohnghoejhfxgrjspuonxghjvfjmohLnoochugqhYjrngkhUo
anspo,hzejghoejchzjsjhouylngbhxahoejhngay jgfjhoeuohxgjhmjxmyjheuphxg
ugxoejs,hoejsjhsxpjhoxhYjrng’phtngqhzeuohejheuqhoxhpuchxghoejhp i.jfok
I ohoejpjhnqjup,hxgfjhxahp fehntmxsougfjhnghenphjcjp,hpjjtjqhoxhfxtj
ngoxhenphisunghuphnghuhqsjut,hugqheuqhgxzhgxohoejhpynbeojpohngojsjpo
axshentkhNohjrjghpos flhenthuphposugbjhoeuohoejchpex yqhijhpxhjubjshox
ouylhxahzeuohzuphxahgxh pjhoxhugcxgjkhLnooc,hoxx,hpex yq,hxgjhzx yq
eurjhp mmxpjq,heurjhijjghngojsjpojqhnghzeuohoejchzjsjhpucngbhxahoej
snbeophugqhjq fuonxghxahzxtjgkhExzhxaojghpejheuqht pjqhxghoejhp i.jfo,
oenglngbhxahejshasnjgqhuisxuq,hRusjglu,hxahejshmunga yhpouojhxa
qjmjgqjgfj,hexzhxaojghpejheuqhzxgqjsjqhuix ohejspjyahzeuohzx yqhijfxtj
xahejshnahpejhqnqhgxohtussc,hugqhexzhxaojghpejheuqhusb jqhznoehejs
pnpojshuix ohno!hI ohnohqnqhgxohngojsjpohejshuohuyykhPejhugqhYjrngheuq
uhfxgrjspuonxghxahoejnshxzg,hcjohgxohuhfxgrjspuonxg,hi ohpxtjhpxsohxa
tcpojsnx phfxtt gnfuonxg,hzenfehisx beohoejthjrjschtxtjgohgjusjs,hugq
ponssjqhnghixoehuhpjgpjhxahbyuqhojssxshijaxsjhoejh glgxzghngoxhzenfe
oejchzjsjhjgojsngbk

UohanspohYjrng,hnghugpzjshoxhLnooc’phw jponxghexzhejhfx yqheurjhpjjg
ejshyupohcjushnghoejhfussnubj,hoxyqhejshexzhejheuqhijjghfxtngbhextj
asxthoejhtxzngbhuyxgbhoejhenbesxuqhugqheuqhtjohejsk

“Nohzuphrjsc,hrjschjusychnghoejhtxsgngbkhCx hzjsjhmsxiuiychxgych. po
uzuljkhCx shtxoejshzuphupyjjmhnghoejhfxsgjskhNohzuphughjvw npnoj
txsgngbkhNhzuphzuylngbhuyxgbhzxgqjsngbhzexhnohfx yqhijhnghu
ax s-ng-eugq?hNohzuphuhpmyjgqnqhpjohxahax shexspjphznoehijyyp,hugqhnghu
pjfxgqhcx hayupejqhic,hugqhNhpuzhcx huohoejhzngqxz—cx hzjsjhpnoongb
ynljhoenp,hexyqngbhoejhposngbphxahcx shfumhnghixoeheugqp,hugqhoenglngb
uza yychqjjmychuix ohpxtjoengb,”hejhpunq,hptnyngbkh“ExzhNhpex yqhynlj
oxhlgxzhzeuohcx hzjsjhoenglngbhuix ohoejg!hPxtjoengbhntmxsougo?”

“Zupg’ohNhqsjuqa yych gonqc?”hpejhzxgqjsjq,hi ohpjjngbhoejhptnyjhxa
jfpoupchoejpjhsjtngnpfjgfjphfuyyjqh m,hpejhajyohoeuohoejhntmsjppnxghpej
euqhtuqjheuqhijjghrjschbxxqkhPejhiy pejqhugqhyu bejqhznoehqjynbeo;
“SjuyychNhqxg’ohsjtjtijsk”

“ExzhgnfjychO sxropnghyu bep!”hpunqhYjrng,huqtnsngbhenphtxnpohjcjphugq
peulngbhfejpok

“Eurjhcx hlgxzghenthyxgb?”hupljqhLnoock

“Xe,hjrjscxgjhlgxzphent!”

“UgqhNhpjjhcx hoenglhej’phuhexssnqhtug?”

“Gxohexssnq,hi ohgxoengbhnghentk”

“Xe,hcx ’sjhzsxgb!hUgqhcx ht pohbnrjh mhoenglngbhpxhqnsjfoyc!”hpunq
Lnoockh“Nh pjqhoxheurjhuhrjschmxxshxmngnxghxahenthoxx,hi ohej,hej’phug
uza yychgnfjhugqhzxgqjsa yychbxxq-ejusojqhtugkhEjheuphuhejusohxahbxyqk”

“Exzhfx yqhcx hangqhx ohzeuohpxsohxahejusohejheup?”

“ZjhusjhbsjuohasnjgqpkhNhlgxzhenthrjschzjyykhYupohzngojs,hpxxghuaojs
kkkhcx hfutjhoxhpjjh p,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhb nyochugqhuohoejhputjhontj
fxganqngbhptnyj,h“uyyhQxyyc’phfenyqsjgheuqhpfusyjohajrjs,hugqhej
eummjgjqhoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhejskhUgqhxgychaugfc,”hpejhpunqhnghuhzenpmjs,
“ejhajyohpxhpxsschaxshejshoeuohejhpoucjqhugqhijbughoxhejymhejshyxxl
uaojshoejhfenyqsjgkhCjp,hugqhaxshoesjjhzjjlphejhpoxmmjqhznoehoejt,hugq
yxxljqhuaojshoejhfenyqsjghynljhuhg spjk”

“NhuthojyyngbhLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofehuix ohO sxropnghnghoejhpfusyjo
ajrjs,”hpejhpunq,hijgqngbhxrjshoxhejshpnpojsk

“Cjp,hnohzuphzxgqjsa y,hgxiyj!”hpunqhQxyyc,hbyugfngbhoxzusqphO sxropng,
zexheuqhijfxtjhuzusjhoejchzjsjhouylngbhxahent,hugqhptnyngbhbjgoychox
entkhYjrnghbyugfjqhxgfjhtxsjhuohO sxropng,hugqhzxgqjsjqhexzhnohzuphej
euqhgxohsjuyndjqhuyyhoenphtug’phbxxqgjpphijaxsjk

“N’thpxssc,hN’thpxssc,hugqhN’yyhgjrjshoenglhnyyhxahmjxmyjhubung!”hej
punqhbunyc,hbjg ngjychjvmsjppngbhzeuohejhajyohuohoejhtxtjgok


Feumojsh12

Fxggjfojqhznoehoejhfxgrjspuonxghoeuoheuqhpms gbh mhxghoejhsnbeophxa
zxtjghoejsjhzjsjhfjsounghw jponxgphuphoxhoejhngjw uynochxahsnbeophng
tussnubjhntmsxmjshoxhqnpf pphijaxsjhoejhyuqnjpkhMjpopxrheuqhpjrjsuy
ontjphq sngbhqnggjshox fejqh mxghoejpjhw jponxgp,hi ohPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
ugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehfusja yychqsjzhenthxaahoejtk

Zejghoejchsxpjhasxthoejhouiyjhugqhoejhyuqnjpheuqhbxgjhx o,hMjpopxrhqnq
gxohaxyyxzhoejt,hi ohuqqsjppngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hijbughoxhjvmx gq
oejhfenjahbsx gqhxahngjw uynockhOejhngjw uynochnghtussnubj,hnghenp
xmngnxg,hyuchnghoejhaufohoeuohoejhnganqjynochxahoejhznajhugqhoej
nganqjynochxahoejhe piugqhusjhm gnpejqh gjw uyyc,hixoehichoejhyuzhugq
ichm iynfhxmngnxgkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohe ssnjqych mhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehugqhxaajsjqhenthuhfnbusk

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohptxlj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugpzjsjqhfuytyc,hugqhup
oex behm smxpjychznpengbhoxhpexzhoeuohejhzuphgxohuasunqhxahoejhp i.jfo,
ejho sgjqhoxhMjpopxrhznoehuhfenyychptnyjk

“Nhntubngjhoeuohp fehuhrnjzheuphuhax gquonxghnghoejhrjschguo sjhxa
oengbp,”hejhpunq,hugqhzx yqheurjhbxgjhxghoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtkhI ohuo
oenphmxngohO sxropnghisxljhp qqjgychugqh gjvmjfojqychngoxhoej
fxgrjspuonxg,huqqsjppngbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Cx hejusq,hmjseump,huix ohMscuofegnlxr?”hpunqhO sxropng,hzustjqh mhic
oejhfeutmubgjhejheuqhqs gl,hugqhyxgbhzunongbhaxshughxmmxso gnochox
isjulhoejhpnyjgfjhoeuoheuqhzjnbejqhxghentkh“RupcuhMscuofegnlxr,”hej
punq,hznoehuhbxxq-guo sjqhptnyjhxghenphqutm,hsjqhynmp,huqqsjppngb
entpjyahmsngfnmuyychoxhoejhtxpohntmxsougohb jpo,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
“oejchoxyqhtjhoxquchejhax beohuhq jyhznoehLrnoplchuohOrjs,hugqheup
lnyyjqhentk”

. pohuphnohuyzucphpjjtphoeuohxgjhis npjphxgjpjyahxghuhpxsjhmyufj,hpx
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehajyohgxzhoeuohoejhfxgrjspuonxghzx yqhichnyyhy fl
auyyhjrjschtxtjgohxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phpxsjhpmxokhEjhzx yqhubung
eurjhbxohenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhuzuc,hi ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehentpjya
ngw nsjq,hznoehf snxpnoc:

“ZeuohqnqhMscuofegnlxrhanbeohuix o?”

“EnphznajkhUfojqhynljhuhtug,hejhqnq!hFuyyjqhenthx ohugqhpexohent!”

“Ue!”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehngqnaajsjgoyc,hugqhynaongbhenp
jcjisxzp,hejhzjgohngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

“ExzhbyuqhNhuthcx heurjhfxtj,”hQxyychpunqhznoehuhasnbeojgjqhptnyj,
tjjongbhenthnghoejhx ojshqsuzngb-sxxtkh“Nht pohouylhoxhcx khYjo’phpno
ejsjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hznoehoejhputjhjvmsjppnxghxahngqnaajsjgfj,hbnrjg
enthichenphynaojqhjcjisxzp,hpuohqxzghijpnqjhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hugq
ptnyjqhuaajfojqyck

“No’phaxso guoj,”hpunqhej,h“jpmjfnuyychuphNhzuphtjugngbhoxhuplhcx hox
jvf pjhtj,hugqhoxhijhoulngbhyjurjkhNheurjhoxhpousohoxtxssxzk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphanstychfxgrngfjqhxahUggu’phnggxfjgfj,hugqhpej
ajyohejspjyahbsxzngbhmuyjhugqhejshynmphw nrjsngbhznoehugbjshuohoenp
asnbnq,h gajjyngbhtug,hzexhzuphpxhfuytychngojgqngbhoxhs nghejshnggxfjgo
asnjgqk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpejhpunq,hznoehqjpmjsuojhsjpxy onxghyxxlngb
enthnghoejhaufj,h“Nhupljqhcx huix ohUggu,hcx htuqjhtjhgxhugpzjskhExzhnp
pej?”

“Pejhnp,hNhijynjrj,hw nojhzjyy,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hsjmynjqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hgxohyxxlngbhuohejsk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,haxsbnrjhtj,hNheurjhgxhsnbeohkkkhi ohNhyxrjhUggu
uphuhpnpojs,hugqhjpojjthejs;hNhijb,hNhijpjjfehcx hoxhojyyhtjhzeuohnp
zsxgbhijozjjghcx ?hzeuohau yohqxhcx hangqhznoehejs?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehasxzgjq,hugqhuytxpohfyxpngbhenphjcjp,hqsxmmjqhenp
ejuqk

“Nhmsjp tjhoeuohcx she piugqheuphoxyqhcx hoejhbsx gqphxghzenfehN
fxgpnqjshnohgjfjppuschoxhfeugbjhtchuoono qjhoxhUgguhUsluqcjrgu?”hej
punq,hgxohyxxlngbhejshnghoejhaufj,hi ohjcjngbhznoehqnpmyjup sj
Peofejsiuoplc,hzexhzuphzuylngbhufsxpphoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

“Nhqxg’ohijynjrjhno,hNhqxg’ohijynjrjhno,hNhfug’ohijynjrjhno!”hQxyyc
punq,hfyupmngbhejshixgcheugqphijaxsjhejshznoehuhrnbxsx phbjpo sjkhPej
sxpjhw nflyc,hugqhyunqhejsheugqhxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phpyjjrjkh“Zj
peuyyhijhqnpo sijqhejsjkhFxtjhoenphzuc,hmyjupjk”

Qxyyc’phubnouonxgheuqhughjaajfohxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhEjhbxoh mhugq
p itnppnrjychaxyyxzjqhejshoxhoejhpfexxysxxtkhOejchpuohqxzghoxhuhouiyj
fxrjsjqhznoehughxnyfyxoehf ohnghpynophichmjglgnrjpk

“Nhqxg’o,hNhqxg’ohijynjrjhno!”hQxyychpunq,hoscngbhoxhfuofehenphbyugfj
oeuohurxnqjqhejsk

“Xgjhfuggxohqnpijynjrjhaufop,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hpunqhej,hznoehug
jtmeupnphxghoejhzxsqh“aufopk”

“I ohzeuoheuphpejhqxgj?”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgukh“Zeuohmsjfnpjycheup
pejhqxgj?”

“Pejheuphaxspuljghejshq oc,hugqhqjfjnrjqhejshe piugqkhOeuo’phzeuohpej
euphqxgj,”hpunqhejk

“Gx,hgx,hnohfug’ohij!hGx,haxshBxq’phpulj,hcx husjhtnpouljg,”hpunq
Qxyyc,hm oongbhejsheugqphoxhejshojtmyjphugqhfyxpngbhejshjcjpk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjqhfxyqyc,hznoehenphynmphuyxgj,htjugngbhox
pnbgnachoxhejshugqhoxhentpjyahoejhanstgjpphxahenphfxgrnfonxg;hi ohoenp
zusthqjajgpj,hoex behnohfx yqhgxohpeuljhent,hsjxmjgjqhenphzx gqkhEj
ijbughoxhpmjulhznoehbsjuojshejuok

“Nohnphjvosjtjychqnaanf yohoxhijhtnpouljghzejghuhznajhejspjyahngaxstp
ejshe piugqhxahoejhaufo—ngaxstphenthoeuohjnbeohcjusphxahejshynaj,hugqhu
pxg,huyyhoeuo’phuhtnpoulj,hugqhoeuohpejhzugophoxhijbnghynajhubung,”hej
punqhugbsnyc,hznoehuhpgxsok

“Ugguhugqhpng—Nhfuggxohfxggjfohoejt,hNhfuggxohijynjrjhno!”

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hejhpunq,hgxzhyxxlngbhposunbeohngoxhQxyyc’p
lngqyc,hosx iyjqhaufj,hugqhajjyngbhoeuohenphoxgb jhzuphijngbhyxxpjgjq
nghpmnojhxahentpjya,h“Nhzx yqhbnrjhuhbsjuohqjuyhaxshqx iohoxhijhponyy
mxppniyjkhZejghNhqx iojq,hNhzuphtnpjsuiyj,hi ohnohzuphijoojshoeughgxzk
ZejghNhqx iojq,hNheuqhexmj;hi ohgxzhoejsjhnphgxhexmj,hugqhponyyhNhqx io
xahjrjscoengbkhNhuthnghp fehqx iohxahjrjscoengbhoeuohNhjrjgheuojhtc
pxg,hugqhpxtjontjphqxhgxohijynjrjhejhnphtchpxgkhNhuthrjsch geummck”

EjheuqhgxhgjjqhoxhpuchoeuokhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhpjjghoeuohuphpxxghup
ejhbyugfjqhngoxhejshaufj;hugqhpejhajyohpxsschaxshent,hugqhejshaunoehng
oejhnggxfjgfjhxahejshasnjgqhijbughoxhoxoojsk

“Xe,hoenphnphuza y,huza y!hI ohfughnohijhos jhoeuohcx husjhsjpxyrjqhxg
uhqnrxsfj?”

“Nhuthsjpxyrjqhxghjvosjtjhtjup sjpkhOejsjhnphgxoengbhjypjhaxshtjhox
qxk”

“Gxoengbhjypjhoxhqx,hgxoengbhjypjhoxhqxkkkk”hpejhsjmynjq,hznoehojusphng
ejshjcjpkh“Xehgx,hqxg’ohpuchgxoengbhjypjhoxhqx!”hpejhpunqk

“Zeuohnphexssniyjhnghuhosx iyjhxahoenphlngqhnphoeuohxgjhfuggxo,huphng
ugchxoejs—nghyxpp,hnghqjuoe—ijushxgj’phosx iyjhnghmjufj,hi ohoeuohxgj
t pohufo,”hpunqhej,huphoex behb jppngbhejshoex beokh“Xgjht pohbjohx o
xahoejhe tnynuongbhmxpnonxghnghzenfehxgjhnphmyufjq;hxgjhfug’ohynrjh_à
osxnp_k”

“Nh gqjspougq,hNhw nojh gqjspougqhoeuo,”hpunqhQxyyc,hugqhejshejuqhpuglk
Pejhzuphpnyjgohaxshuhynooyj,hoenglngbhxahejspjya,hxahejshxzghbsnjahng
ejshautnyc,hugqhuyyhuohxgfj,hznoehughntm ypnrjhtxrjtjgo,hpejhsunpjqhejs
ejuqhugqhfyupmjqhejsheugqphznoehughntmyxsngbhbjpo sjkh“I ohzunohu
ynooyj!hCx husjhuhFesnponugkhOenglhxahejs!hZeuohznyyhijfxtjhxahejs,hna
cx hfupohejshxaa?”

“Nheurjhoex beo,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hNheurjhoex beohuhbsjuohqjuy,”hpunq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhEnphaufjho sgjqhsjqhnghmuofejp,hugqhenphqnthjcjp
yxxljqhposunbeohijaxsjhentkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhuohoeuohtxtjgohmnonjq
enthznoehuyyhejshejusokh“OeuohzuphzeuohNhqnqhngqjjqhzejghpejhejspjya
tuqjhlgxzghoxhtjhtche tnynuonxg;hNhyjaohjrjscoengbhuphxahxyqkhNhburj
ejshuhfeugfjhoxhsjaxst,hNhosnjqhoxhpurjhejskhUgqhznoehzeuohsjp yo?hPej
zx yqhgxohsjbusqhoejhpynbeojpohsjw jpo—oeuohpejhpex yqhxipjsrj
qjfxs t,”hejhpunq,hbjoongbhejuojqkh“Xgjhtuchpurjhugcxgjhzexhqxjphgxo
zugohoxhijhs ngjq;hi ohnahoejhzexyjhguo sjhnphpxhfxss mo,hpxhqjmsurjq,
oeuohs nghnopjyahpjjtphoxhijhejshpuyruonxg,hzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?”

“Ugcoengb,hxgychgxohqnrxsfj!”hugpzjsjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu

“I ohzeuohnphugcoengb?”

“Gx,hnohnphuza y!hPejhznyyhijhgxhxgj’phznaj,hpejhznyyhijhyxpo!”

“ZeuohfughNhqx?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hsunpngbhenphpex yqjsphugq
enphjcjisxzpkhOejhsjfxyyjfonxghxahenphznaj’phyupohufoheuqhpxhngfjgpjq
enthoeuohejheuqhijfxtjhasnbnq,huphuohoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhfxgrjspuonxgk
“Nhuthrjschbsuoja yhaxshcx shpctmuoec,hi ohNht pohijhbxngb,”hejhpunq,
bjoongbh mk

“Gx,hzunohuhtng ojkhCx ht pohgxohs nghejskhZunohuhynooyj;hNhznyyhojyy
cx huix ohtcpjyakhNhzuphtussnjq,hugqhtche piugqhqjfjnrjqhtj;hnghugbjs
ugqh.juyx pc,hNhzx yqheurjhoesxzgh mhjrjscoengb,hNhzx yqhtcpjyakkkkhI o
Nhfutjhoxhtcpjyahubung;hugqhzexhqnqhno?hUgguhpurjqhtjkhUgqhejsjhNhut
ynrngbhxgkhOejhfenyqsjghusjhbsxzngbh m,htche piugqheuphfxtjhiuflhoxhenp
autnyc,hugqhajjyphenphau yo,hnphbsxzngbhm sjs,hijoojs,hugqhNhynrj
xgkkkkhNheurjhaxsbnrjghno,hugqhcx hx beohoxhaxsbnrj!”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehejusqhejs,hi ohejshzxsqpheuqhgxhjaajfohxghent
gxzkhUyyhoejheuosjqhxahoeuohquchzejghejheuqhsjpxyrjqhxghuhqnrxsfjheuq
pms gbh mhubunghnghenphpx ykhEjhpexxlhentpjya,hugqhpunqhnghuhpesnyy,
yx qhrxnfj:

“AxsbnrjhNhfuggxo,hugqhqxhgxohznpehox,hugqhNhsjbusqhnohuphzsxgbkhNheurj
qxgjhjrjscoengbhaxshoenphzxtug,hugqhpejheuphosxqqjghnohuyyhnghoejht q
oxhzenfehpejhnphulngkhNhuthgxohuhpmnoja yhtug,hNheurjhgjrjsheuojq
ugcxgj,hi ohNheuojhejshznoehtchzexyjhpx y,hugqhNhfuggxohjrjghaxsbnrj
ejs,hijfu pjhNheuojhejshoxxht fehaxshuyyhoejhzsxgbhpejheuphqxgjhtj!”hej
punq,hznoehoxgjphxaheuosjqhnghenphrxnfjk

“Yxrjhoexpjhoeuoheuojhcx kkkk”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzenpmjsjqhontxsx pyck

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pyckhOeuohejhlgjzhyxgbhubx,hi o
nohfx yqhgxohijhummynjqhoxhenphfupjk

“Yxrjhoexpjhoeuoheuojhcx ,hi ohoxhyxrjhoexpjhxgjheuojphnphntmxppniyjk
Axsbnrjhtjhaxsheurngbhosx iyjqhcx khJrjscxgjheuphjgx behoxhijushnghenp
xzghbsnja!”hUgqhsjbungngbhenphpjya-mxppjppnxg,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
w njoychoxxlhyjurjhugqhzjgohuzuck


Feumojsh13

Zejghoejchsxpjhasxthouiyj,hYjrnghzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhaxyyxzhLnoochngox
oejhqsuzngb-sxxt;hi ohejhzuphuasunqhpejhtnbeohqnpynljhoenp,huphoxx
xirnx pychmucngbhejshuoojgonxgkhEjhsjtungjqhnghoejhynooyjhsngbhxahtjg,
oulngbhmusohnghoejhbjgjsuyhfxgrjspuonxg,hugqhznoex ohyxxlngbhuohLnooc,
ejhzuphuzusjhxahejshtxrjtjgop,hejshyxxlp,hugqhoejhmyufjhzejsjhpejhzup
nghoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

Ejhqnqhuohxgfj,hugqhznoex ohoejhptuyyjpohjaaxso,hljjmhoejhmsxtnpjhej
euqhtuqjhejs—uyzucphoxhoenglhzjyyhxahuyyhtjg,hugqhoxhynljhjrjscxgj
uyzucpkhOejhfxgrjspuonxghajyyhxghoejhrnyyubjhfxtt gj,hnghzenfehMjpopxr
puzhuhpxsohxahpmjfnuyhmsngfnmyj,hfuyyjqhichenthoejh“fexsuy”hmsngfnmyjk
YjrnghqnqhgxohubsjjhznoehMjpopxr,hgxshznoehenphisxoejs,hzexheuqhu
pmjfnuyhuoono qjhxahenphxzg,hixoehuqtnoongbhugqhgxohuqtnoongbhoej
pnbgnanfugfjhxahoejhS ppnughfxtt gjkhI ohejhouyljqhoxhoejt,hpntmyc
oscngbhoxhsjfxgfnyjhugqhpxaojghoejnshqnaajsjgfjpkhEjhzuphgxohnghoej
yjupohngojsjpojqhnghzeuohejhpunqhentpjya,hugqhjrjghyjpphpxhnghzeuohoejc
punq;huyyhejhzugojqhzuphoeuohoejchugqhjrjscxgjhpex yqhijheummchugq
fxgojgojqkhEjhlgjzhgxzhoejhxgjhoengbhxahntmxsougfj;hugqhoeuohxgjhoengb
zuphuohanspohoejsj,hnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hugqhoejghijbughtxrngbhufsxpp
ugqhfutjhoxhuhpougqponyyhuohoejhqxxskhZnoex oho sgngbhsx gqhejhajyohoej
jcjphanvjqhxghent,hugqhoejhptnyj,hugqhejhfx yqhgxohejymho sgngbhsx gqk
PejhzuphpougqngbhnghoejhqxxszuchznoehPeofejsiuoplc,hyxxlngbhuohentk

“Nhoex beohcx hzjsjhbxngbhoxzusqphoejhmnugx,”hpunqhej,hbxngbh mhoxhejsk
“Oeuo’phpxtjoengbhNhtnpphnghoejhfx gosc—t pnfk”

“Gx;hzjhxgychfutjhoxhajofehcx hugqhoeuglhcx ,”hpejhpunq,hsjzusqngbhent
znoehuhptnyjhoeuohzuphynljhuhbnao,h“axshfxtngbkhZeuohqxhoejchzugohox
usb jhaxs?hGxhxgjhjrjshfxgrngfjphugcxgj,hcx hlgxzk”

“Cjp;hoeuo’phos j,”hpunqhYjrng;h“nohbjgjsuyycheummjgphoeuohxgjhusb jp
zustychpntmychijfu pjhxgjhfug’ohtuljhx ohzeuohxgj’phxmmxgjgohzugophox
msxrjk”

Yjrngheuqhxaojghgxonfjqhnghqnpf ppnxgphijozjjghoejhtxpohngojyynbjgo
mjxmyjhoeuohuaojshjgxstx phjaaxsop,hugqhughjgxstx phjvmjgqno sjhxa
yxbnfuyhp ioyjonjphugqhzxsqp,hoejhqnpm ougophanguyychussnrjqhuohijngb
uzusjhoeuohzeuohoejcheuqhpxhyxgbhijjghpos bbyngbhoxhmsxrjhoxhxgj
ugxoejsheuqhyxgbhubx,hasxthoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhusb tjgo,hijjghlgxzghox
ixoe,hi ohoeuohoejchynljqhqnaajsjgohoengbp,hugqhzx yqhgxohqjangjhzeuo
oejchynljqhaxshajushxahnophijngbhuooufljqkhEjheuqhxaojgheuqhoej
jvmjsnjgfjhxahp qqjgychnghuhqnpf ppnxghbsupmngbhzeuohnohzuphenp
xmmxgjgohynljqhugqhuohxgfjhynlngbhnohoxx,hugqhnttjqnuojychejhax gq
entpjyahubsjjngb,hugqhoejghuyyhusb tjgophajyyhuzuchuph pjyjppk
Pxtjontjp,hoxx,hejheuqhjvmjsnjgfjqhoejhxmmxpnoj,hjvmsjppngbhuohyupo
zeuohejhynljqhentpjya,hzenfehejhzuphqjrnpngbhusb tjgophoxhqjajgq,hugq,
feugfngbhoxhjvmsjpphnohzjyyhugqhbjg ngjyc,hejheuqhax gqhenphxmmxgjgohuo
xgfjhubsjjngbhugqhfjupngbhoxhqnpm ojhenphmxpnonxgkhEjhosnjqhoxhpuc
oenpk

Pejhlgnoojqhejshisxz,hoscngbhoxh gqjspougqkhI ohqnsjfoychejhijbughox
nyy posuojhenphtjugngb,hpejh gqjspoxxqhuohxgfjk

“Nhlgxz:hxgjht pohangqhx ohzeuohejhnphusb ngbhaxs,hzeuohnphmsjfnx phox
ent,hoejghxgjhfugkkkk”

Pejheuqhfxtmyjojychb jppjqhugqhjvmsjppjqhenphiuqychjvmsjppjqhnqjuk
Yjrnghptnyjqh.xca yyc;hejhzuphpos flhichoenphosugpnonxghasxthoej
fxga pjq,hrjsixpjhqnpf ppnxghznoehMjpopxrhugqhenphisxoejshoxhoenp
yufxgnf,hfyjus,huytxpohzxsqyjpphfxtt gnfuonxghxahoejhtxpohfxtmyjv
nqjupk

Peofejsiuoplchtxrjqhuzuchasxthoejt,hugqhLnooc,hbxngbh mhoxhu
fusq-ouiyj,hpuohqxzg,hugq,houlngbh mhoejhfeuyl,hijbughqsuzngbhqnrjsbngb
fnsfyjphxrjshoejhgjzhbsjjghfyxoek

Oejchijbughubunghxghoejhp i.jfohoeuoheuqhijjghpousojqhuohqnggjs—oej
ynijsochugqhxff muonxgphxahzxtjgkhYjrnghzuphxahoejhxmngnxghxahQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhoeuohuhbnsyhzexhqnqhgxohtusschpex yqhangqhuhzxtug’phq onjp
nghuhautnyckhEjhp mmxsojqhoenphrnjzhichoejhaufohoeuohgxhautnychfughbjo
xghznoex ohzxtjghoxhejym;hoeuohnghjrjschautnyc,hmxxshxshsnfe,hoejsjhusj
ugqht pohijhg spjp,hjnoejshsjyuonxgphxshensjqk

“Gx,”hpunqhLnooc,hiy pengb,hi ohyxxlngbhuohenthuyyhoejhtxsjhixyqychznoe
ejshos oea yhjcjp;h“uhbnsyhtuchijhpxhfnsf tpougfjqhoeuohpejhfuggxohynrj
nghoejhautnychznoex ohe tnynuonxg,hzenyjhpejhejspjyakkkk”

Uohoejhengohejh gqjspoxxqhejsk

“Xe,hcjp,”hejhpunqkh“Cjp,hcjp,hcjp—cx ’sjhsnbeo;hcx ’sjhsnbeo!”

UgqhejhpuzhuyyhoeuohMjpopxrheuqhijjghtungoungngbhuohqnggjshxahoej
ynijsochxahzxtug,hpntmychasxthbjoongbhuhbyntmpjhxahoejhojssxshxahughxyq
tunq’phjvnpojgfjhugqhnophe tnynuonxghnghLnooc’phejuso;hugqhyxrngbhejs,
ejhajyohoeuohojssxshugqhe tnynuonxg,hugqhuohxgfjhburjh mhenphusb tjgopk

UhpnyjgfjhaxyyxzjqkhPejhzuphponyyhqsuzngbhznoehoejhfeuylhxghoejhouiyjk
Ejshjcjphzjsjhpengngbhznoehuhpxaohynbeokh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahejs
txxqhejhajyohnghuyyhenphijngbhuhfxgong uyychbsxzngbhojgpnxghxa
eummngjppk

“Ue!hN’rjhpfsniiyjqhuyyhxrjshoejhouiyj!”hpejhpunq,hugq,hyucngbhqxzghoej
feuyl,hpejhtuqjhuhtxrjtjgohuphoex behoxhbjoh mk

“Zeuo!hpeuyyhNhijhyjaohuyxgj—znoex ohejs?”hejhoex beohznoehexssxs,hugq
ejhoxxlhoejhfeuylkh“Zunohuhtng oj,”hejhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzghoxhoejhouiyjk
“N’rjhyxgbhzugojqhoxhuplhcx hxgjhoengbk”

Ejhyxxljqhposunbeohngoxhejshfusjppngb,hoex behasnbeojgjqhjcjpk

“Myjupj,huplhnok”

“Ejsj,”hejhpunq;hugqhejhzsxojhoejhngnonuyhyjoojsp,h_z,hc,ho,ht,hn,hf,
g,hi,hq,ho,ht,hg,hx,ho_khOejpjhyjoojsphtjugo,h“Zejghcx hoxyqhtjhno
fx yqhgjrjshij,hqnqhoeuohtjughgjrjs,hxshoejg?”hOejsjhpjjtjqhgx
ynljynexxqhoeuohpejhfx yqhtuljhx ohoenphfxtmynfuojqhpjgojgfj;hi ohej
yxxljqhuohejshuphoex behenphynajhqjmjgqjqhxghejsh gqjspougqngbhoej
zxsqpkhPejhbyugfjqhuohenthpjsnx pyc,hoejghyjugjqhejshm fljsjqhisxzhxg
ejsheugqphugqhijbughoxhsjuqkhXgfjhxshoznfjhpejhpoxyjhuhyxxlhuohent,hup
oex behuplngbhent,h“NphnohzeuohNhoengl?”

“Nh gqjspougq,”hpejhpunq,hay pengbhuhynooyjk

“Zeuohnphoenphzxsq?”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoejh_g_hoeuohpoxxqhaxs
_gjrjs_k

“Nohtjugph_gjrjs_,”hpejhpunq;h“i ohoeuo’phgxohos j!”

Ejhw nflychs iijqhx ohzeuohejheuqhzsnoojg,hburjhejshoejhfeuyl,hugq
poxxqh mkhPejhzsxoj,h_o,hn,hf,hg,hu,hq_k

Qxyychzuphfxtmyjojychfxtaxsojqhnghoejhqjmsjppnxghfu pjqhichejs
fxgrjspuonxghznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzejghpejhfu beohpnbeohxahoej
ozxhanb sjp:hLnoochznoehoejhfeuylhnghejsheugq,hznoehuhpechugqheummc
ptnyjhyxxlngbh mzusqphuohYjrng,hugqhenpheugqpxtjhanb sjhijgqngbhxrjs
oejhouiyjhznoehbyxzngbhjcjphaupojgjqhxgjhtng ojhxghoejhouiyjhugqhoej
gjvohxghejskhEjhzuphp qqjgychsuqnugo:hejheuqh gqjspoxxqkhNohtjugo,
“OejghNhfx yqhgxohugpzjshqnaajsjgoyck”

Ejhbyugfjqhuohejshw jponxgngbyc,hontnqyck

“Xgychoejg?”

“Cjp,”hejshptnyjhugpzjsjqk

“Ugqhgkkkhugqhgxz?”hejhupljqk

“Zjyy,hsjuqhoenpkhN’yyhojyyhcx hzeuohNhpex yqhynlj—pex yqhynljhpx
t fe!”hpejhzsxojhoejhngnonuyhyjoojsp,h_n,hc,hf,ha,hu,ha,hz,hek_hOenp
tjugo,h“Nahcx hfx yqhaxsbjohugqhaxsbnrjhzeuoheummjgjqk”

Ejhpguofejqhoejhfeuylhznoehgjsrx p,hosjtiyngbhangbjsp,hugqhisjulngbhno,
zsxojhoejhngnonuyhyjoojsphxahoejhaxyyxzngbhmesupj,h“Nheurjhgxoengbhox
axsbjohugqhoxhaxsbnrj;hNheurjhgjrjshfjupjqhoxhyxrjhcx k”

Pejhbyugfjqhuohenthznoehuhptnyjhoeuohqnqhgxohzurjsk

“Nh gqjspougq,”hpejhpunqhnghuhzenpmjsk

EjhpuohqxzghugqhzsxojhuhyxgbhmesupjkhPejh gqjspoxxqhnohuyy,hugqhznoex o
uplngbhent,h“Nphnohoenp?”hoxxlhoejhfeuylhugqhuohxgfjhugpzjsjqk

Axshuhyxgbhzenyjhejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhzeuohpejheuqhzsnoojg,hugq
xaojghyxxljqhngoxhejshjcjpkhEjhzuphpo mjanjqhznoeheummngjppkhEjhfx yq
gxohp mmychoejhzxsqhpejheuqhtjugo;hi ohnghejshfeustngbhjcjp,hijutngb
znoeheummngjpp,hejhpuzhuyyhejhgjjqjqhoxhlgxzkhUgqhejhzsxojhoesjj
yjoojspkhI ohejheuqheusqychangnpejqhzsnongbhzejghpejhsjuqhoejthxrjshejs
ust,hugqhejspjyahangnpejqhugqhzsxojhoejhugpzjs,h“Cjpk”

“Cx ’sjhmyucngbh_pjfséounsj_?”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjkh“I ohzjht pohsjuyyc
ijhbjoongbhuyxgbhnahcx hzugohoxhijhnghontjhuohoejhoejuojsk”

Yjrnghbxoh mhugqhjpfxsojqhLnoochoxhoejhqxxsk

Nghoejnshfxgrjspuonxghjrjscoengbheuqhijjghpunq;hnoheuqhijjghpunqhoeuo
pejhyxrjqhent,hugqhoeuohpejhzx yqhojyyhejshauoejshugqhtxoejshoeuohej
zx yqhfxtjhoxtxssxzhtxsgngbk


Feumojsh14

ZejghLnoocheuqhbxgjhugqhYjrnghzuphyjaohuyxgj,hejhajyohp feh gjupngjpp
znoex ohejs,hugqhp fehughntmuonjgohyxgbngbhoxhbjohuphw nflyc,hup
w nflychuphmxppniyj,hoxhoxtxssxzhtxsgngb,hzejghejhzx yqhpjjhejshubung
ugqhijhmynbeojqhoxhejshaxsjrjs,hoeuohejhajyohuasunq,huphoex behxa
qjuoe,hxahoexpjhax sojjghex sphoeuohejheuqhoxhbjohoesx behznoex ohejsk
Nohzuphjppjgonuyhaxshenthoxhijhznoehpxtjxgjhoxhouylhox,hpxhuphgxohoxhij
yjaohuyxgj,hoxhlnyyhontjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzx yqheurjhijjghoej
fxtmugnxghtxpohfxgbjgnuyhoxhent,hi ohejhzuphbxngbhx o,hejhpunq,hoxhu
_pxnséj_,hnghsjuynochoxhoejhiuyyjokhYjrnghxgycheuqhontjhoxhojyyhenthej
zupheummc,hugqhoeuohejhyxrjqhent,hugqhzx yqhgjrjs,hgjrjshaxsbjohzeuohej
euqhqxgjhaxshentkhOejhjcjphugqhoejhptnyjhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpexzjq
Yjrnghoeuohejhfxtmsjejgqjqhoeuohajjyngbhanoongbyck

“Xe,hpxhno’phgxohontjhoxhqnjhcjo?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hmsjppngb
Yjrng’pheugqhznoehjtxonxgk

“G-g-gx!”hpunqhYjrngk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxx,huphpejhpunqhbxxq-icjhoxhent,hburjhenthuhpxsohxa
fxgbsuo yuonxg,hpucngb,h“ExzhbyuqhNhuthcx heurjhtjohLnoochubung!hXgj
t pohruy jhxyqhasnjgqpk”hYjrnghqnqhgxohynljhoejpjhzxsqphxahQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgu’pkhPejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhexzhyxaochugqhijcxgqhejshno
uyyhzup,hugqhpejhx beohgxohoxheurjhqusjqhoxhuyy qjhoxhnokhYjrnghpunq
bxxq-icjhoxhoejt,hi o,hgxohoxhijhyjaohuyxgj,hejhuooufejqhentpjyahoxhenp
isxoejsk

“Zejsjhusjhcx hbxngb?”

“N’thbxngbhoxhuhtjjongbk”

“Zjyy,hN’yyhfxtjhznoehcx khTuchN?”

“Zeuohaxs?hCjp,hfxtjhuyxgb,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hptnyngbkh“Zeuohnp
oejhtuoojshznoehcx hoxquc?”

“Znoehtj?hEummngjpphnphoejhtuoojshznoehtj!”hpunqhYjrng,hyjoongbhqxzg
oejhzngqxzhxahoejhfussnubjhoejchzjsjhqsnrngbhngkh“Cx hqxg’ohtngq?—no’p
pxhponayngbkhNo’pheummngjpphnphoejhtuoojshznoehtj!hZechnphnohcx heurj
gjrjshtussnjq?”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehptnyjqk

“Nhuthrjschbyuq,hpejhpjjtphuhgnfjhbnkkkk”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzup
ijbnggngbk

“Qxg’ohpuchno!hqxg’ohpuchno!”hpex ojqhYjrng,hfy ofengbhuohoejhfxyyushxa
enpha shfxuohznoehixoeheugqp,hugqht aayngbhenth mhnghnokh“Pej’phuhgnfj
bnsy”hzjsjhp fehpntmyj,he tiyjhzxsqp,hpxhx ohxaheustxgchznoehenp
ajjyngbk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehyu bejqhx osnbeohuhtjsschyu be,hzenfehzuphsusjhznoe
entkh“Zjyy,hugczuc,hNhtuchpuchoeuohN’thrjschbyuqhxahnok”

“Oeuohcx htuchqxhoxtxssxz,hoxtxssxzhugqhgxoengbhtxsj!hGxoengb,hgxoengb,
pnyjgfj,”hpunqhYjrng,hugqht aayngbhenthxgfjhtxsjhnghenpha shfxuo,hej
uqqjq:h“Nhqxhynljhcx hpx!hZjyy,hnphnohmxppniyjhaxshtjhoxhijhmsjpjgohuo
oejhtjjongb?”

“Xahfx spjhnohnpk”

“Zeuohnphcx shqnpf ppnxghuix ohoxquc?”hupljqhYjrng,hgjrjshfjupngb
ptnyngbk

OejchussnrjqhuohoejhtjjongbkhYjrnghejusqhoejhpjfsjouschejpnouongbyc
sjuqhoejhtng ojphzenfehejhxirnx pychqnqhgxohentpjyah gqjspougq;hi o
Yjrnghpuzhasxthoenphpjfsjousc’phaufjhzeuohuhbxxq,hgnfj,hlngq-ejusojq
mjspxghejhzupkhOenphzuphjrnqjgohasxthenphfxga pnxghugqhjtiussupptjgohng
sjuqngbhoejhtng ojpkhOejghoejhqnpf ppnxghijbugkhOejchzjsjhqnpm ongb
uix ohoejhtnpummsxmsnuonxghxahfjsounghp tphugqhoejhyucngbhxahfjsoung
mnmjp,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphrjschf oongbhoxhozxhtjtijsp,hugqhpunq
pxtjoengbhuohbsjuohyjgboehznoehughunshxahosn tme;hugqhugxoejshtjtijs,
pfsniiyngbhpxtjoengbhxghuhinohxahmumjs,hijbughontnqychuohanspo,hi o
uaojszusqphugpzjsjqhenthrjschrnfnx pychugqhqjynbeoa yyckhUgqhoejg
Prnudeplch(ejhzuphoejsjhoxx)hpunqhpxtjoengbhoxx,hrjscheugqpxtjychugq
gxiyckhYjrnghynpojgjqhoxhoejt,hugqhpuzhfyjusychoeuohoejpjhtnppngbhp tp
ugqhoejpjhmnmjphzjsjhgxohugcoengbhsjuy,hugqhoeuohoejchzjsjhgxohuohuyy
ugbsc,hi ohzjsjhuyyhoejhgnfjpo,hlngqjpohmjxmyj,hugqhjrjscoengbhzuphup
eummchugqhfeustngbhuphmxppniyjhutxgbhoejtkhOejchqnqhgxheusthoxhugcxgj,
ugqhzjsjhuyyhjg.xcngbhnokhZeuohpos flhYjrnghzuphoeuohejhfx yqhpjj
oesx behoejthuyyhoxquc,hugqhasxthynooyj,huytxpohntmjsfjmoniyjhpnbgp
lgjzhoejhpx yhxahjufe,hugqhpuzhqnpongfoychoeuohoejchzjsjhuyyhbxxqhuo
ejusokhUgqhYjrnghentpjyahnghmusonf yushoejchzjsjhuyyhjvosjtjychaxgqhxa
oeuohquckhOeuohzuphjrnqjgohasxthoejhzuchoejchpmxljhoxhent,hasxthoej
asnjgqyc,huaajfonxguojhzuchjrjghoexpjhejhqnqhgxohlgxzhyxxljqhuohentk

“Zjyy,hqnqhcx hynljhno?”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehupljqhentk

“Rjscht fekhNhgjrjshp mmxpjqhnohzuphpxhngojsjpongb!hFumnouy!hPmyjgqnq!”

Prnudeplchzjgoh mhoxhYjrnghugqhngrnojqhenthoxhfxtjhsx gqhoxhojuhznoe
entkhYjrnghzuph oojsychuohuhyxpphoxhfxtmsjejgqhxshsjfuyyhzeuohnohzuphej
euqhqnpynljqhnghPrnudeplc,hzeuohejheuqhaunyjqhoxhangqhnghentkhEjhzuphu
fyjrjshugqhzxgqjsa yychbxxq-ejusojqhtugk

“Txpohqjynbeojq,”hejhpunq,hugqhupljqhuaojshenphznajhugqhpnpojs-ng-yuzk
Ugqhasxthuhw jjshuppxfnuonxghxahnqjup,hijfu pjhnghenphntubnguonxghoej
nqjuhxahPrnudeplc’phpnpojs-ng-yuzhzuphfxggjfojqhznoehtussnubj,hno
xff ssjqhoxhenthoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhxgjhoxhzexthejhfx yqhtxsjhp nouiyc
pmjulhxahenpheummngjpp,hugqhejhzuphrjschbyuqhoxhbxhugqhpjjhoejtk

Prnudeplchw jponxgjqhenthuix ohenphntmsxrjtjgophxghenphjpouoj,
msjp mmxpngb,huphejhuyzucphqnq,hoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhmxppninynochxahqxngb
ugcoengbhgxohqxgjhuysjuqchnghJ sxmj,hugqhgxzhoenphqnqhgxohnghoejhyjupo
uggxchYjrngkhXghoejhfxgosusc,hejhajyohoeuohPrnudeplchzuphsnbeo,hoeuo
oejhzexyjhi pngjpphzuphxahynooyjhruy j,hugqhejhpuzhoejhzxgqjsa y
pxaogjpphugqhfxgpnqjsuonxghznoehzenfehPrnudeplchurxnqjqha yyc
jvmsjppngbhenphfxssjfohrnjzkhOejhyuqnjphxahoejhPrnudeplchex pjexyqhzjsj
musonf yusychqjynbeoa ykhNohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohoejchlgjzhuyyhuix ohno
uysjuqchugqhpctmuoendjqhznoehent,hpucngbhgxoengbhtjsjychasxthqjynfufck
Ejhpoucjqhznoehoejthxgjhex s,hozx,hoesjj,houylngbhxahuyyhpxsophxa
p i.jfophi ohoejhxgjhoengbhoeuohanyyjqhenphejuso,hugqhqnqhgxohxipjsrj
oeuohejhzuphixsngbhoejthqsjuqa yyc,hugqhoeuohnohzuphyxgbhmupohoejns
ijqontjk

Prnudeplchzjgohznoehenthngoxhoejheuyy,hcuzgngbhugqhzxgqjsngbhuohoej
posugbjhe txshenphasnjgqhzuphngkhNohzuphmupohxgjhx’fyxflkhYjrnghzjgo
iuflhoxhenphexojy,hugqhzuphqnptucjqhuohoejhoex beohoeuohuyyhuyxgjhgxz
znoehenphntmuonjgfjhejheuqhojghex sphponyyhyjaohoxhbjohoesx bekhOej
pjsrugo,hzexpjho sghnohzuphoxhijh mhuyyhgnbeo,hynbeojqhenphfugqyjp,hugq
zx yqheurjhbxgjhuzuc,hi ohYjrnghpoxmmjqhentkhOenphpjsrugo,hCjbxs,hzext
Yjrngheuqhgxonfjqhijaxsj,hpos flhenthuphuhrjschngojyynbjgo,hjvfjyyjgo,
ugq,huixrjhuyy,hbxxq-ejusojqhtugk

“Zjyy,hCjbxs,hno’pheusqhzxslhgxohpyjjmngb,hnpg’ohno?”

“Xgj’phbxohoxhm oh mhznoehno!hNo’phmusohxahx shzxsl,hcx hpjjkhNghu
bjgoyjtug’phex pjhno’phjupnjs;hi ohoejghejsjhxgjhtuljphtxsjk”

NohummjusjqhoeuohCjbxsheuqhuhautnyc,hoesjjhixcphugqhuhqu beojs,hu
pjtmposjpp,hzexthejhzugojqhoxhtusschoxhuhfupenjshnghuhpuqqyjs’phpexmk

Yjrng,hxghejusngbhoenp,hngaxstjqhCjbxshoeuo,hnghenphxmngnxg,hng
tussnubjhoejhbsjuohoengbhzuphyxrj,hugqhoeuohznoehyxrjhxgjhzx yqhuyzucp
ijheummc,haxsheummngjpphsjpophxgychxghxgjpjyak

Cjbxshynpojgjqhuoojgonrjyc,hugqhxirnx pychw nojhoxxlhnghYjrng’phnqju,
i ohichzuchxahuppjgohoxhnohejhjg gfnuojq,hbsjuoychoxhYjrng’php smsnpj,
oejhxipjsruonxghoeuohzejghejheuqhynrjqhznoehbxxqhtupojsphejheuqhuyzucp
ijjghpuonpanjqhznoehenphtupojsp,hugqhgxzhzuphmjsajfoychpuonpanjqhznoe
enphjtmyxcjs,hoex behejhzuphuhAsjgfetugk

“Zxgqjsa yychbxxq-ejusojqhajyyxz!”hoex beohYjrngk

“Zjyy,hi ohcx hcx spjya,hCjbxs,hzejghcx hbxohtussnjq,hqnqhcx hyxrjhcx s
znaj?”

“Uc!hugqhzechgxo?”hsjpmxgqjqhCjbxsk

UgqhYjrnghpuzhoeuohCjbxshoxxhzuphnghughjvfnojqhpouojhugqhngojgqngbhox
jvmsjpphuyyhenphtxpohejusoajyohjtxonxgpk

“Tchynaj,hoxx,heuphijjghuhzxgqjsa yhxgjkhAsxthuhfenyqh mkkkk”hejhzup
ijbnggngbhznoehayupengbhjcjp,hummusjgoychfuofengbhYjrng’phjgoe pnupt,
. pohuphmjxmyjhfuofehcuzgngbk

I ohuohoeuohtxtjgohuhsngbhzuphejusqkhCjbxshqjmusojq,hugqhYjrnghzuphyjao
uyxgjkhEjheuqhjuojghpfusfjychugcoengbhuohqnggjs,heuqhsja pjqhojuhugq
p mmjshuohPrnudeplc’p,hi ohejhzuphngfumuiyjhxahoenglngbhxahp mmjskhEj
euqhgxohpyjmohoejhmsjrnx phgnbeo,hi ohzuphngfumuiyjhxahoenglngbhxa
pyjjmhjnoejskhEnphsxxthzuphfxyq,hi ohejhzuphxmmsjppjqhichejuokhEj
xmjgjqhixoehoejhtxruiyjhmugjphnghenphzngqxzhugqhpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyj
xmmxpnojhoejhxmjghmugjpkhXrjshoejhpgxz-fxrjsjqhsxxaphfx yqhijhpjjghu
qjfxsuojqhfsxpphznoehfeungp,hugqhuixrjhnohoejhsnpngbhosnugbyjhxa
Feusyjp’phZunghznoehoejhcjyyxznpehynbeohxahFumjyyukhEjhbudjqhuohoej
fsxpp,hoejghuohoejhpousp,hqsuglhnghoejhasjpehasjjdngbhunshoeuohayxzjq
jrjgychngoxhoejhsxxt,hugqhaxyyxzjqhuphoex behnghuhqsjuthoejhntubjphugq
tjtxsnjphoeuohsxpjhnghenphntubnguonxgkhUohax shx’fyxflhejhejusqhpojmp
nghoejhmuppubjhugqhmjjmjqhx ohuohoejhqxxskhNohzuphoejhbutiyjshTcuplng,
zexthejhlgjz,hfxtngbhasxthoejhfy ikhEjhzuyljqhbyxxtnyc,hasxzgngbhugq
fx bengbkh“Mxxs,h gy flchajyyxz!”hoex beohYjrng,hugqhojusphfutjhngox
enphjcjphasxthyxrjhugqhmnochaxshoenphtugkhEjhzx yqheurjhouyljqhznoe
ent,hugqhosnjqhoxhfxtaxsohent,hi ohsjtjtijsngbhoeuohejheuqhgxoengbhi o
enphpensohxg,hejhfeugbjqhenphtngqhugqhpuohqxzghubunghuohoejhxmjghmugj
oxhiuoejhnghoejhfxyqhunshugqhbudjhuohoejhjvw npnojhyngjphxahoejhfsxpp,
pnyjgo,hi oha yyhxahtjugngbhaxshent,hugqhoejhtx gongbhy snqhcjyyxz
pouskhUohpjrjghx’fyxflhoejsjhzuphuhgxnpjhxahmjxmyjhmxynpengbhoej
ayxxsp,hugqhijyyphsngbngbhnghpxtjhpjsrugop’hqjmusotjgo,hugqhYjrnghajyo
oeuohejhzuphijbnggngbhoxhbjohasxdjgkhEjhfyxpjqhoejhmugj,hzupejq,
qsjppjq,hugqhzjgohx ohngoxhoejhposjjok


Feumojsh15

OejhposjjophzjsjhponyyhjtmockhYjrnghzjgohoxhoejhex pjhxahoej
PeofejsiuoplcpkhOejhrnpnoxsp’hqxxsphzjsjhfyxpjqhugqhjrjscoengbhzup
upyjjmkhEjhzuyljqhiufl,hzjgohngoxhenphsxxthubung,hugqhupljqhaxshfxaajjk
Oejhquchpjsrugo,hgxohCjbxshoenphontj,hisx beohnohoxhentkhYjrnghzx yq
eurjhjgojsjqhngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehent,hi ohuhijyyhsugbhaxshoej
pjsrugo,hugqhejhzjgohx okhYjrnghosnjqhoxhqsnglhfxaajjhugqhm ohpxtjhsxyy
nghenphtx oe,hi ohenphtx oehzuphw nojhuohuhyxpphzeuohoxhqxhznoehoej
sxyykhYjrng,hsj.jfongbhoejhsxyy,hm ohxghenphfxuohugqhzjgohx ohubunghaxs
uhzuylkhNohzuphgngjhx’fyxflhzejghejhsjufejqhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hpojmp
oejhpjfxgqhontjkhNghoejhex pjhoejchzjsjhxgych. poh m,hugqhoejhfxxlhfutj
x ohoxhbxhtusljongbkhEjheuqhoxhbjohoesx behuohyjupohozxhex sphtxsjk

UyyhoeuohgnbeohugqhtxsgngbhYjrnghynrjqhmjsajfoych gfxgpfnx pyc,hugq
ajyohmjsajfoychynaojqhx ohxahoejhfxgqnonxgphxahtuojsnuyhynajkhEjheuq
juojghgxoengbhaxshuhzexyjhquc,hejheuqhgxohpyjmohaxshozxhgnbeop,heuq
pmjgohpjrjsuyhex sph gqsjppjqhnghoejhasxdjghuns,hugqhajyohgxohpntmyc
asjpejshugqhposxgbjshoeughjrjs,hi ohajyoh oojsychngqjmjgqjgohxahenp
ixqc;hejhtxrjqhznoex oht pf yushjaaxso,hugqhajyohuphnahejhfx yqhqx
ugcoengbkhEjhzuphfxgrngfjqhejhfx yqhaych mzusqphxshynaohoejhfxsgjshxa
oejhex pj,hnahgjjqhijkhEjhpmjgohoejhsjtungqjshxahoejhontjhnghoej
posjjo,hngfjppugoychyxxlngbhuohenphzuofehugqhbudngbhuix ohentk

Ugqhzeuohejhpuzhoejg,hejhgjrjshpuzhubunghuaojskhOejhfenyqsjghjpmjfnuyyc
bxngbhoxhpfexxy,hoejhiy npehqxrjphaycngbhqxzghasxthoejhsxxaphoxhoej
murjtjgo,hugqhoejhynooyjhyxurjphfxrjsjqhznoehayx s,hoes pohx ohichug
 gpjjgheugq,hox fejqhentkhOexpjhyxurjp,hoexpjhqxrjp,hugqhoexpjhozxhixcp
zjsjhgxohjusoeychfsjuo sjpkhNohuyyheummjgjqhuohoejhputjhontj:huhixchsug
oxzusqphuhqxrjhugqhbyugfjqhptnyngbhuohYjrng;hoejhqxrj,hznoehuhzenshxa
ejshzngbp,hqusojqhuzuc,hayupengbhnghoejhp g,hutnqhbsungphxahpgxzhoeuo
w nrjsjqhnghoejhuns,hzenyjhasxthuhynooyjhzngqxzhoejsjhfutjhuhptjyyhxa
asjpe-iuljqhisjuq,hugqhoejhyxurjphzjsjhm ohx okhUyyhxahoenphoxbjoejs
zuphpxhjvosuxsqngusnychgnfjhoeuohYjrnghyu bejqhugqhfsnjqhznoehqjynbeok
Bxngbhuhyxgbhzuchsx gqhichBudjogchMyufjhugqhLnpyxrlu,hejhzjgohiufl
ubunghoxhoejhexojy,hugqhm oongbhenphzuofehijaxsjhent,hejhpuohqxzghox
zunohaxshozjyrjhx’fyxflkhNghoejhgjvohsxxthoejchzjsjhouylngbhuix ohpxtj
pxsohxahtufengjp,hugqhpzngqyngb,hugqhfx bengbhoejnshtxsgngbhfx bepk
OejchqnqhgxohsjuyndjhoeuohoejheugqhzuphgjushozjyrjkhOejheugqhsjufejq
nokhYjrnghzjgohx ohxgoxhoejhpojmpkhOejhpyjqbj-qsnrjsphfyjusychlgjzhuyy
uix ohnokhOejchfsxzqjqhsx gqhYjrnghznoeheummchaufjp,hw ussjyngbhutxgb
oejtpjyrjp,hugqhxaajsngbhoejnshpjsrnfjpkhOscngbhgxohoxhxaajgqhoejhxoejs
pyjqbjhqsnrjsp,hugqhmsxtnpngbhoxhqsnrjhznoehoejthoxx,hYjrnghoxxlhxgj
ugqhoxyqhenthoxhqsnrjhoxhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’khOejhpyjqbj-qsnrjshzup
pmyjgqnqhnghuhzenojhpenso-fxyyushponflngbhx ohxrjshenphxrjsfxuohugq
ngoxhenphposxgb,ha yy-iyxxqjqhsjqhgjflkhOejhpyjqbjhzuphenbehugq
fxtaxsouiyj,hugqhuyoxbjoejshp fehuhxgjhuphYjrnghgjrjshqsxrjhnghuaojs,
ugqhoejhexspjhzuphuhbxxqhxgj,hugqhosnjqhoxhbuyyxmhi ohqnqg’ohpjjthox
txrjkhOejhqsnrjshlgjzhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hex pj,hugqhqsjzh mhuohoej
jgosugfjhznoehuhf srjhxahenphusthugqhuh“Zx!”hjpmjfnuyychngqnfuonrjhxa
sjpmjfohaxshenphausjkhOejhPeofejsiuoplcp’heuyy-mxsojshfjsoungychlgjz
uyyhuix ohnokhOenphzuphjrnqjgohasxthoejhptnyjhnghenphjcjphugqhoejhzuc
ejhpunq:

“Zjyy,hno’phuhyxgbhzenyjhpngfjhcx ’rjhijjghoxhpjjh p,hLxgpougong
Qtnosnjrnofe!”

Gxohxgychejhlgjzhuyyhuix ohno,hi ohejhzuph gtnpouluiychqjynbeojqhugq
tulngbhjaaxsophoxhfxgfjuyhenph.xckhYxxlngbhngoxhenphlngqychxyqhjcjp,
Yjrnghsjuyndjqhjrjghpxtjoengbhgjzhnghenpheummngjppk

“Usjhoejch m?”

“Msuchzuylhng!hYjurjhnohejsj,”hpunqhej,hptnyngb,huphYjrnghzx yqheurj
fxtjhiuflhoxhouljhenpheuokhOeuohtjugohpxtjoengbk

“OxhzexthpeuyyhNhuggx gfjhcx shexgxs?”hupljqhoejhaxxotugk

Oejhaxxotug,hoex behuhcx gbhtug,hugqhxgjhxahoejhgjzhpfexxyhxahaxxotjg,
uhqugqc,hzuphuhrjschlngq-ejusojq,hbxxqhajyyxz,hugqhejhoxxhlgjzhuyy
uix ohnok

“Oejhmsngfjpphkkkhoejhmsngfjhkkkhoejhcx gbhmsngfjppkkkk”hpunqhYjrngk

OejhanspohmjspxghejhpuzhzuphTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxgkhPejhzuyljqhufsxpphoej
sxxt,hugqhejshsngbyjophugqhejshaufjhzjsjhijutngbkhEjheuqhxgych. po
pmxljghoxhejs,hzejghp qqjgychejhejusqhoejhs poyjhxahuhplnsohuohoej
qxxs,hugqhTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxghrugnpejqhasxthYjrng’phjcjp,hugqhuh.xca y
ojssxshfutjhxrjshenthuohoejhgjusgjpphxahenpheummngjppkhTuqjtxnpjyyj
Yngxghzuphnghbsjuoheupoj,hugqhyjurngbhent,hzjgohx ohuohoejhxoejshqxxsk
Qnsjfoychpejheuqhbxgjhx o,hpznao,hpznaohynbeohpojmphpx gqjqhxghoej
musw jo,hugqhenphiynpp,henphynaj,hentpjya—zeuohzuphijpohnghentpjya,
zeuohejheuqhpxhyxgbhpx beohugqhyxgbjqhaxs—zuphw nflyc,hpxhw nflyc
ummsxufengbhentkhPejhqnqhgxohzuyl,hi ohpjjtjq,hichpxtjh gpjjghaxsfj,hox
ayxuohoxhentkhEjhpuzhgxoengbhi ohejshfyjus,hos oea yhjcjp,hasnbeojgjq
ichoejhputjhiynpphxahyxrjhoeuohayxxqjqhenphejusokhOexpjhjcjphzjsj
pengngbhgjusjshugqhgjusjs,hiyngqngbhenthznoehoejnshynbeohxahyxrjkhPej
poxmmjqhponyyhfyxpjhoxhent,hox fengbhentkhEjsheugqphsxpjhugqhqsxmmjq
xgoxhenphpex yqjspk

Pejheuqhqxgjhuyyhpejhfx yq—pejheuqhs gh mhoxhenthugqhbnrjghejspjyah m
jgonsjyc,hpechugqheummckhEjhm ohenphustphsx gqhejshugqhmsjppjqhenphynmp
oxhejshtx oehoeuohpx beohenphlnppk

Pejhoxxheuqhgxohpyjmohuyyhgnbeo,hugqheuqhijjghjvmjfongbhenthuyyhoej
txsgngbk

Ejshtxoejshugqhauoejsheuqhfxgpjgojqhznoex ohqjt s,hugqhzjsjheummchng
ejsheummngjppkhPejheuqhijjghzunongbhaxshentkhPejhzugojqhoxhijhoejhanspo
oxhojyyhenthejsheummngjpphugqhenpkhPejheuqhbxohsjuqchoxhpjjhenthuyxgj,
ugqheuqhijjghqjynbeojqhuohoejhnqju,hugqheuqhijjghpechugqhupeutjq,hugq
qnqhgxohlgxzhejspjyahzeuohpejhzuphqxngbkhPejheuqhejusqhenphpojmphugq
rxnfj,hugqheuqhzunojqhuohoejhqxxshaxshTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxghoxhbxk
TuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxgheuqhbxgjhuzuckhZnoex ohoenglngb,hznoex ohuplngb
ejspjyahexzhugqhzeuo,hpejheuqhbxgjh mhoxhent,hugqhqnqhuphpejhzuphqxngbk

“Yjoh phbxhoxhtuttu!”hpejhpunq,houlngbhenthichoejheugqkhAxshuhyxgb
zenyjhejhfx yqhpuchgxoengb,hgxohpxht fehijfu pjhejhzuphuasunqhxa
qjpjfsuongbhoejhyxaongjpphxahenphjtxonxghichuhzxsq,huphoeuohjrjschontj
ejhosnjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hngpojuqhxahzxsqphejhajyohoeuohojusphxa
eummngjpphzjsjhzjyyngbh mkhEjhoxxlhejsheugqhugqhlnppjqhnok

“Fughnohijhos j?”hejhpunqhuohyupohnghuhfexljqhrxnfjkh“Nhfug’ohijynjrj
cx hyxrjhtj,hqjus!”

Pejhptnyjqhuohoeuoh“qjus,”hugqhuohoejhontnqnochznoehzenfehejhbyugfjqhuo
ejsk

“Cjp!”hpejhpunqhpnbgnanfugoyc,hqjynijsuojyckh“Nhuthpxheummc!”

Gxohyjoongbhbxhenpheugqp,hpejhzjgohngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtkhOejhmsngfjpp,
pjjngbhoejt,hisjuoejqhw nflyc,hugqhnttjqnuojychijbughoxhfschugqhoejg
nttjqnuojychijbughoxhyu be,hugqhznoehuhrnbxsx phpojmhYjrngheuqhgxo
jvmjfojq,hsugh mhoxhent,hugqhe bbngbhenphejuq,hlnppjqhent,hzjoongbhenp
fejjlphznoehejshojuspk

“Pxhnohnphuyyhpjooyjq!hNhuthbyuqkhYxrjhejskhNhuthbyuqkkkkhLnooc!”

“Cx ’rjhgxohijjghyxgbhpjooyngbhoengbp,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hoscngbhox
pjjth gtxrjq;hi ohYjrnghgxonfjqhoeuohenphjcjphzjsjhzjohzejghejho sgjq
oxhentk

“N’rjhyxgb,huyzucphznpejqhaxshoenp!”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,houlngbhYjrnghic
oejhusthugqhqsuzngbhenthoxzusqphentpjyakh“Jrjghzejghoenphynooyj
ajuoejs-ejuqhaugfnjqkkkk”

“Mumu!”hpesnjljqhLnooc,hugqhpe ohenphtx oehznoehejsheugqpk

“Zjyy,hNhzxg’o!”hejhpunqkh“N’thrjsc,hrjschkkkhmyjukkkhXe,hzeuohuhaxxyhN
utkkkk”

EjhjtisufjqhLnooc,hlnppjqhejshaufj,hejsheugq,hejshaufjhubung,hugqhtuqj
oejhpnbghxahoejhfsxpphxrjshejsk

UgqhoejsjhfutjhxrjshYjrnghuhgjzhajjyngbhxahyxrjhaxshoenphtug,honyyhoejg
pxhynooyjhlgxzghoxhent,hzejghejhpuzhexzhpyxzychugqhojgqjsychLnooc
lnppjqhenpht pf yusheugqk


Feumojsh16

Oejhmsngfjpphpuohnghejshustfeuns,hpnyjgohugqhptnyngb;hoejhmsngfjhpuo
qxzghijpnqjhejskhLnoochpoxxqhichejshauoejs’phfeuns,hponyyhexyqngbhenp
eugqkhUyyhzjsjhpnyjgok

Oejhmsngfjpphzuphoejhanspohoxhm ohjrjscoengbhngoxhzxsqp,hugqhox
osugpyuojhuyyhoex beophugqhajjyngbphngoxhmsufonfuyhw jponxgpkhUgqhuyy
jw uyychajyohoenphposugbjhugqhmunga yhaxshoejhanspohtng ojk

“Zejghnphnohoxhij?hZjht poheurjhoejhijgjqnfonxghugqhuggx gfjtjgokhUgq
zejg’phoejhzjqqngbhoxhij?hZeuohqxhcx hoengl,hUyjvugqjs?”

“Ejsjhejhnp,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hmxngongbhoxhYjrng—“ej’phoej
msngfnmuyhmjspxghnghoejhtuoojsk”

“Zejg?”hpunqhYjrnghiy pengbkh“Oxtxssxz;hNahcx huplhtj,hNhpex yqhpuc,
oejhijgjqnfonxghoxquchugqhoejhzjqqngbhoxtxssxzk”

“Fxtj,h_txghfejs_,hoeuo’phgxgpjgpj!”

“Zjyy,hnghuhzjjlk”

“Ej’phw nojhtuqk”

“Gx,hzechpx?”

“Zjyy,h mxghtchzxsq!”hpunqhoejhtxoejs,hptnyngb,hqjynbeojqhuohoenp
eupojkh“Exzhuix ohoejhosx ppju ?”

“Znyyhoejsjhsjuyychijhuhosx ppju hugqhuyyhoeuo?”hYjrnghoex beohznoe
exssxskh“I ohfughoejhosx ppju hugqhoejhijgjqnfonxghugqhuyyhoeuo—fughno
pmxnyhtcheummngjpp?hGxoengbhfughpmxnyhno!”hEjhbyugfjqhuohLnooc,hugq
gxonfjqhoeuohpejhzuphgxohnghoejhyjupo,hgxohnghoejhrjschyjupo,hqnpo sijq
ichoejhnqjuhxahoejhosx ppju kh“Oejghnoht pohijhuyyhsnbeo,”hejhoex beok

“Xe,hNhlgxzhgxoengbhuix ohno;hNhxgychpunqhzeuohNhpex yqhynlj,”hejhpunq
umxyxbjonfuyyck

“Zj’yyhouylhnohxrjs,hoejgkhOejhijgjqnfonxghugqhuggx gfjtjgohfughoulj
myufjhgxzkhOeuo’phrjschzjyyk”

Oejhmsngfjpphzjgoh mhoxhejshe piugq,hlnppjqhent,hugqhzx yqheurjhbxgj
uzuc,hi ohejhljmohejs,hjtisufjqhejs,hugq,hojgqjsychuphuhcx gbhyxrjs,
lnppjqhejshpjrjsuyhontjp,hptnyngbkhOejhxyqhmjxmyjhzjsjhxirnx pyc
t qqyjqhaxshuhtxtjgo,hugqhqnqhgxohw nojhlgxzhzejoejshnohzuphoejchzex
zjsjhnghyxrjhubunghxshoejnshqu beojskhZejghoejhmsngfjhugqhoejhmsngfjpp
euqhbxgj,hYjrnghzjgoh mhoxhenphijosxoejqhugqhoxxlhejsheugqkhEjhzup
pjya-mxppjppjqhgxzhugqhfx yqhpmjul,hugqhejheuqhuhbsjuohqjuyhejhzugojq
oxhojyyhejskhI ohejhpunqhgxohuohuyyhzeuohejheuqhoxhpuck

“ExzhNhlgjzhnohzx yqhijhpx!hNhgjrjshexmjqhaxshno;hugqhcjohnghtchejusohN
zuphuyzucphp sj,”hejhpunqkh“Nhijynjrjhoeuohnohzuphxsqungjqk”

“UgqhN!”hpejhpunqkh“Jrjghzejgkkkk”hPejhpoxmmjqhugqhzjgohxghubung,
yxxlngbhuohenthsjpxy ojychznoehejshos oea yhjcjp,h“JrjghzejghNhoes po
asxthtjhtcheummngjppkhNhuyzucphyxrjqhcx huyxgj,hi ohNhzuphfussnjqhuzuck
Nhx beohoxhojyyhcx kkkkhFughcx haxsbnrjhoeuo?”

“MjseumphnohzuphaxshoejhijpokhCx hznyyheurjhoxhaxsbnrjhtjhpxht fekhN
x beohoxhojyyhcx kkkk”

Oenphzuphxgjhxahoejhoengbphejheuqhtjugohoxhpmjulhuix okhEjheuqhsjpxyrjq
asxthoejhanspohoxhojyyhejshozxhoengbp—oeuohejhzuphgxohfeupojhuphpej
zup,hugqhoeuohejhzuphgxohuhijynjrjskhNohzuphubxgndngb,hi ohej
fxgpnqjsjqhejhx beohoxhojyyhejshixoehoejpjhaufopk

“Gx,hgxohgxz,hyuojs!”hejhpunqk

“Rjschzjyy,hyuojs,hi ohcx ht pohfjsoungychojyyhtjkhN’thgxohuasunqhxa
ugcoengbkhNhzugohoxhlgxzhjrjscoengbkhGxzhnohnphpjooyjqk”

Ejhuqqjq:h“Pjooyjqhoeuohcx ’yyhouljhtjhzeuojrjshNhtuchij—cx hzxg’ohbnrj
tjh m?hCjp?”

“Cjp,hcjpk”

Oejnshfxgrjspuonxghzuphngojss mojqhichTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxg,hzexhznoehug
uaajfojqhi ohojgqjshptnyjhfutjhoxhfxgbsuo yuojhejshaurxsnojhm mnyk
Ijaxsjhpejheuqhbxgj,hoejhpjsrugophfutjhnghznoehoejnshfxgbsuo yuonxgpk
Oejghsjyuonxgphussnrjq,hugqhoejsjhijbughoeuohpouojhxahiynppa y
uip sqnochasxthzenfehYjrnghqnqhgxohjtjsbjhonyyhoejhquchuaojshenp
zjqqngbkhYjrnghzuphnghuhfxgong uyhpouojhxahuzlzusqgjpphugqhqnpfxtaxso,
i ohoejhngojgpnochxahenpheummngjpphzjgohxghuyyhoejhzenyjhngfsjupngbkhEj
ajyohfxgong uyychoeuohuhbsjuohqjuyhzuphijngbhjvmjfojqhxahent—zeuo,hej
qnqhgxohlgxz;hugqhejhqnqhjrjscoengbhejhzuphoxyq,hugqhnohuyyhburjhent
eummngjppkhEjheuqhoex beohenphjgbubjtjgohzx yqheurjhgxoengbhuix ohno
ynljhxoejsp,hoeuohoejhxsqnguschfxgqnonxgphxahjgbubjqhfx myjphzx yq
pmxnyhenphpmjfnuyheummngjpp;hi ohnohjgqjqhnghenphqxngbhjvufoychuphxoejs
mjxmyjhqnq,hugqhenpheummngjpphijngbhxgychngfsjupjqhoejsjichugqhijfxtngb
txsjhugqhtxsjhpmjfnuy,htxsjhugqhtxsjh gynljhugcoengbhoeuoheuqhjrjs
eummjgjqk

“Gxzhzjhpeuyyheurjhpzjjotjuophoxhjuo,”hpunqhTuqjtxnpjyyjhYngxg—ugq
Yjrnghqsxrjhxaahoxhi chpzjjotjuopk

“Zjyy,hN’thrjschbyuq,”hpunqhPrnudeplckh“Nhuqrnpjhcx hoxhbjohoej
ix w jophasxthAxtng’pk”

“Xe,husjhoejchzugojq?”hUgqhejhqsxrjhoxhAxtng’pk

Enphisxoejshxaajsjqhoxhyjgqhenthtxgjc,huphejhzx yqheurjhpxhtugc
jvmjgpjp,hmsjpjgophoxhbnrjkkkk

“Xe,husjhmsjpjgophzugojq?”hUgqhejhbuyyxmjqhoxhAx yqj’pk

Ugqhuohoejhfxgajfonxgjs’p,hugqhuohAxtng’p,hugqhuohAx yqj’phejhpuzhoeuo
ejhzuphjvmjfojq;hoeuohoejchzjsjhmyjupjqhoxhpjjhent,hugqhmsnqjq
oejtpjyrjphxghenpheummngjpp,h. pohuphjrjscxgjhzexthejheuqhoxhqxhznoe
q sngbhoexpjhqucpkhZeuohzuphjvosuxsqnguschzuphoeuohjrjscxgjhgxohxgyc
ynljqhent,hi ohjrjghmjxmyjhmsjrnx pych gpctmuoejonf,hfxyq,hugqhfuyyx p,
zjsjhjgoe pnuponfhxrjshent,hburjhzuchoxhenthnghjrjscoengb,hosjuojqhenp
ajjyngbhznoehojgqjsgjpphugqhqjynfufc,hugqhpeusjqhenphfxgrnfonxghoeuohej
zuphoejheummnjpohtughnghoejhzxsyqhijfu pjhenphijosxoejqhzuphijcxgq
mjsajfonxgkhLnoochoxxhajyohoejhputjhoengbkhZejghFx gojpphGxsqpoxg
rjgo sjqhoxhengohoeuohpejheuqhexmjqhaxshpxtjoengbhijoojs,hLnoochzuphpx
ugbschugqhmsxrjqhpxhfxgfy pnrjychoeuohgxoengbhnghoejhzxsyqhfx yqhij
ijoojshoeughYjrng,hoeuohFx gojpphGxsqpoxgheuqhoxhuqtnohno,hugqhng
Lnooc’phmsjpjgfjhgjrjshtjohYjrnghznoex ohuhptnyjhxahjfpouonf
uqtnsuonxgk

Oejhfxgajppnxghejheuqhmsxtnpjqhzuphoejhxgjhmunga yhngfnqjgohxahoenp
ontjkhEjhfxgp yojqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hugqhznoehenphpugfonxghburjhLnoochenp
qnusc,hnghzenfehoejsjhzuphzsnoojghoejhfxgajppnxghoeuohoxso sjqhentkhEj
euqhzsnoojghoenphqnuschuohoejhontjhznoehuhrnjzhoxhenpha o sjhznajkhOzx
oengbphfu pjqhenthugb npe:henphyuflhxahm snochugqhenphyuflhxahaunoek
Enphfxgajppnxghxah gijynjahmuppjqh ggxonfjqkhPejhzuphsjynbnx p,heuq
gjrjshqx iojqhoejhos oephxahsjynbnxg,hi ohenphjvojsguyh gijynjahqnqhgxo
uaajfohejshnghoejhyjupokhOesx behyxrjhpejhlgjzhuyyhenphpx y,hugqhnghenp
px yhpejhpuzhzeuohpejhzugojq,hugqhoeuohp fehuhpouojhxahpx yhpex yqhij
fuyyjqh gijynjrngbhzuphoxhejshuhtuoojshxahgxhuffx gokhOejhxoejs
fxgajppnxghpjohejshzjjmngbhinoojsyck

Yjrng,hgxohznoex ohughnggjshpos bbyj,heugqjqhejshenphqnusckhEjhlgjz
oeuohijozjjghenthugqhejshoejsjhfx yqhgxohij,hugqhpex yqhgxohij,
pjfsjop,hugqhpxhejheuqhqjfnqjqhoeuohpxhnoht pohijkhI ohejheuqhgxo
sjuyndjqhzeuohughjaajfohnohzx yqheurjhxghejs,hejheuqhgxohm ohentpjyahng
ejshmyufjkhNohzuphxgychzejghoejhputjhjrjgngbhejhfutjhoxhoejnshex pj
ijaxsjhoejhoejuojs,hzjgohngoxhejshsxxthugqhpuzhejshojus-poungjq,
mnona y,hpzjjohaufj,htnpjsuiyjhznoehp aajsngbhejheuqhfu pjqhugqhgxoengb
fx yqh gqx,hejhajyohoejhuicpphoeuohpjmusuojqhenphpeutja yhmupohasxthejs
qxrjynljhm snoc,hugqhzuphummuyyjqhuohzeuohejheuqhqxgjk

“Ouljhoejt,houljhoejpjhqsjuqa yhixxlp!”hpejhpunq,hm pengbhuzuchoej
gxojixxlphycngbhijaxsjhejshxghoejhouiyjkh“Zechqnqhcx hbnrjhoejthtj?hGx,
nohzuphijoojshugczuc,”hpejhuqqjq,hox fejqhichenphqjpmunsngbhaufjkh“I o
no’phuza y,huza y!”

Enphejuqhpugl,hugqhejhzuphpnyjgokhEjhfx yqhpuchgxoengbk

“Cx hfug’ohaxsbnrjhtj,”hejhzenpmjsjqk

“Cjp,hNhaxsbnrjhcx ;hi ohno’phojssniyj!”

I ohenpheummngjpphzuphpxhnttjgpjhoeuohoenphfxgajppnxghqnqhgxohpeuoojs
no,hnohxgychuqqjqhugxoejshpeuqjhoxhnokhPejhaxsburjhent;hi ohasxthoeuo
ontjhtxsjhoeughjrjshejhfxgpnqjsjqhentpjyah gzxsoechxahejs,htxsuyyc
ixzjqhqxzghyxzjshoeughjrjshijaxsjhejs,hugqhmsndjqhtxsjhenbeychoeughjrjs
enph gqjpjsrjqheummngjppk


Feumojsh17

 gfxgpfnx pychbxngbhxrjshnghenphtjtxschoejhfxgrjspuonxgphoeuoheuqhouljg
myufjhq sngbhugqhuaojshqnggjs,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjo sgjqhoxhenp
pxynouschsxxtkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phzxsqphuix ohaxsbnrjgjppheuqhusx pjq
nghenthgxoengbhi ohuggxcugfjkhOejhummynfuinynochxshgxg-ummynfuinynochxa
oejhFesnponughmsjfjmohoxhenphxzghfupjhzuphoxxhqnaanf yohuhw jponxghox
ijhqnpf ppjqhynbeoyc,hugqhoenphw jponxgheuqhyxgbhubxhijjghugpzjsjqhic
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehnghoejhgjbuonrjkhXahuyyhoeuoheuqhijjghpunq,hzeuo
po flhtxpohnghenphtjtxschzuphoejhmesupjhxahpo mnq,hbxxq-guo sjq
O sxropng—“_Ufojqhynljhuhtug,hejhqnq!hFuyyjqhenthx ohugqhpexohent!_”
Jrjscxgjheuqhummusjgoychpeusjqhoenphajjyngb,hoex behasxthmxynojgjpp
oejcheuqhgxohjvmsjppjqhnok

“I ohoejhtuoojshnphpjooyjq,hno’ph pjyjpphoenglngbhuix ohno,”hUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehoxyqhentpjyakhUgqhoenglngbhxahgxoengbhi ohoejh.x sgjc
ijaxsjhent,hugqhoejhsjrnpnxghzxslhejheuqhoxhqx,hejhzjgohngoxhenphsxxt
ugqhupljqhoejhmxsojshzexhjpfxsojqhenthzejsjhenphtughzupkhOejhmxsojs
punqhoeuohoejhtugheuqhxgych. pohbxgjhx okhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehxsqjsjq
ojuhoxhijhpjgohent,hpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyj,hugqhoulngbhoejhb nqjixxl,
ijbughfxgpnqjsngbhoejhsx ojhxahenph.x sgjck

“Ozxhojyjbsutp,”hpunqhenphtugpjsrugo,hfxtngbhngoxhoejhsxxtkh“Nhijbhcx s
musqxg,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc;hN’qhxgych. pohoeuohtng ojhbxgjhx ok”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhoejhojyjbsutphugqhxmjgjqhoejtkhOejhanspo
ojyjbsuthzuphoejhuggx gfjtjgohxahPosjtxr’phummxngotjgohoxhoejhrjschmxpo
LusjgngheuqhfxrjojqkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehay gbhoejhojyjbsuthqxzg,hugq
ay pengbhuhynooyj,hbxoh mhugqhijbughoxhmufjh mhugqhqxzghoejhsxxtk
“_W xphr yohmjsqjsjhqjtjgouo_,”hejhpunq,htjugngbhich_w xp_hoejhmjspxgp
sjpmxgpniyjhaxshoenphummxngotjgokhEjhzuphgxohpxht fehuggxcjqhoeuohej
euqhgxohsjfjnrjqhoejhmxpo,hoeuohejheuqhijjghfxgpmnf x pychmuppjqhxrjs;
i ohnohzuphngfxtmsjejgpniyj,hutudngbhoxhenthoeuohoejchqnqhgxohpjjhoeuo
oejhzxsqchmesupj-txgbjshPosjtxrhzuphoejhyupohtughanohaxshnokhExzhfx yq
oejchaunyhoxhpjjhexzhoejchzjsjhs ngngbhoejtpjyrjp,hyxzjsngbhoejns
_msjponbj_hichoenphummxngotjgo?

“Pxtjoengbhjypjhnghoejhputjhyngj,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahinoojsyc,hxmjgngb
oejhpjfxgqhojyjbsutkhOejhojyjbsuthzuphasxthenphznajkhEjshgutj,hzsnoojg
nghiy jhmjgfny,h“Uggu,”hzuphoejhanspohoengbhoeuohfu beohenphjcjkh“Nhut
qcngb;hNhijb,hNhntmyxsjhcx hoxhfxtjkhNhpeuyyhqnjhjupnjshznoehcx s
axsbnrjgjpp,”hejhsjuqkhEjhptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pyc,hugqhay gbhqxzghoej
ojyjbsutkhOeuohoenphzuphuhosnflhugqhuhasu q,hxahoeuo,hejhoex beohaxs
oejhanspohtng oj,hoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx iok

“Oejsjhnphgxhqjfjnohpejhzx yqhponflhuokhPejhzuphgjushejshfxgangjtjgok
MjseumphnohnphoejhfxgangjtjgokhI ohzeuohfughijhoejnshunt?hOxhyjbnontndj
oejhfenyq,hoxhfxtmsxtnpjhtj,hugqhmsjrjgohuhqnrxsfj,”hejhoex beokh“I o
pxtjoengbhzuphpunqhnghno:hNhuthqcngbkkkk”hEjhsjuqhoejhojyjbsuthubung,
ugqhp qqjgychoejhmyunghtjugngbhxahzeuohzuphpunqhnghnohpos flhentk

“Ugqhnahnohnphos j?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakh“Nahnohnphos jhoeuohnghoej
txtjgohxahubxgchugqhgjusgjpphoxhqjuoehpejhnphbjg ngjychmjgnojgo,hugqhN,
oulngbhnohaxshuhosnfl,hsja pjhoxhbx?hOeuohzx yqhgxohxgychijhfs jy,hugq
jrjscxgjhzx yqhiyutjhtj,hi ohnohzx yqhijhpo mnqhxghtchmusok”

“Mnxos,hfuyyhuhfxufe;hNhuthbxngbhoxhMjojspi sb,”hejhpunqhoxhenp
pjsrugok

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqjfnqjqhoeuohejhzx yqhbxhoxhMjojspi sbhugqhpjj
enphznajkhNahejshnyygjpphzuphuhosnfl,hejhzx yqhpuchgxoengbhugqhbxhuzuc
ubungkhNahpejhzuphsjuyychnghqugbjs,hugqhznpejqhoxhpjjhenthijaxsjhejs
qjuoe,hejhzx yqhaxsbnrjhejshnahejhax gqhejshuynrj,hugqhmuchejshoejhyupo
q onjphnahejhfutjhoxxhyuojk

Uyyhoejhzuchejhoex beohgxhtxsjhxahzeuohejhx beohoxhqxk

Znoehuhpjgpjhxahzjusngjpphugqh gfyjuggjpphasxthoejhgnbeohpmjgohnghoej
osung,hnghoejhjusychaxbhxahMjojspi sbhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqsxrj
oesx behoejhqjpjsojqhGjrplchugqhpousjqhposunbeohijaxsjhent,hgxo
oenglngbhxahzeuohzuphuzunongbhentkhEjhfx yqhgxohoenglhuix ohno,hijfu pj
nghmnfo sngbhzeuohzx yqheummjg,hejhfx yqhgxohqsnrjhuzuchoejhsjayjfonxg
oeuohejshqjuoehzx yqhuohxgfjhsjtxrjhuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahenphmxpnonxgk
Iuljsp,hfyxpjqhpexmp,hgnbeo-fuitjg,hmxsojsphpzjjmngbhoejhmurjtjgop
ayupejqhmupohenphjcjp,hugqhejhzuofejqhnohuyy,hoscngbhoxhptxoejshoej
oex beohxahzeuohzuphuzunongbhent,hugqhzeuohejhqusjqhgxohexmjhaxs,hugq
cjohzuphexmngbhaxskhEjhqsxrjh mhoxhoejhpojmpkhUhpyjqbjhugqhuhfussnubj
znoehoejhfxufetughupyjjmhpoxxqhuohoejhjgosugfjkhUphejhzjgohngoxhoej
jgosc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huphnohzjsj,hbxohx ohenphsjpxy onxghasxt
oejhsjtxojpohfxsgjshxahenphisung,hugqhtupojsjqhnohoexsx beyckhNop
tjugngbhsug:h“Nahno’phuhosnfl,hoejghfuythfxgojtmohugqhqjmuso sjkhNa
os oe,hqxhzeuohnphmsxmjsk”

OejhmxsojshxmjgjqhoejhqxxshijaxsjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsugbkhOej
mxsojs,hLumnoxgnofe,hyxxljqhw jjshnghughxyqhfxuo,hznoex ohuhonj,hugqhng
pynmmjspk

“Exzhnphcx shtnposjpp?”

“Uhp ffjppa yhfxgangjtjgohcjpojsquck”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpoxmmjqhpexsohugqho sgjqhzenojkhEjhajyo
qnpongfoychgxzhexzhngojgpjychejheuqhyxgbjqhaxshejshqjuoek

“Ugqhexzhnphpej?”

Lxsgjchnghenphtxsgngbhumsxghsughqxzgpounspk

“Rjschnyy,”hejhugpzjsjqkh“Oejsjhzuphuhfxgp youonxghcjpojsquc,hugqhoej
qxfoxs’phejsjhgxzk”

“Ouljhtchoengbp,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhajjyngbhpxtjhsjynja
uohoejhgjzphoeuohoejsjhzuphponyyhexmjhxahejshqjuoe,hejhzjgohngoxhoej
euyyk

XghoejheuopougqhoejsjhzuphuhtnynouschxrjsfxuokhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
gxonfjqhnohugqhupljq:

“Zexhnphejsj?”

“Oejhqxfoxs,hoejhtnqznaj,hugqhFx gohRsxgplck”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohngoxhoejhnggjshsxxtpk

Nghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthoejsjhzuphgxhxgj;huohoejhpx gqhxahenphpojmphoejsj
futjhx ohxahejshix qxnshoejhtnqznajhnghuhfumhznoehynyufhsniixgpk

Pejhzjgoh mhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhznoehoejhautnynusnochbnrjghic
oejhummsxufehxahqjuoehoxxlhenthichoejhusthugqhqsjzhenthoxzusqphoej
ijqsxxtk

“OeuglhBxqhcx ’rjhfxtj!hPejhljjmphxghuix ohcx hugqhgxoengbhi ohcx ,”
pejhpunqk

“Tuljheupojhznoehoejhnfj!”hoejhqxfoxs’phmjsjtmoxschrxnfjhpunqhasxthoej
ijqsxxtk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohngoxhejshix qxnsk

Uohoejhouiyj,hpnoongbhpnqjzucphnghuhyxzhfeuns,hzuphRsxgplc,henphaufj
enqqjghnghenpheugqp,hzjjmngbkhEjh. tmjqh mhuohoejhqxfoxs’phrxnfj,hoxxl
enpheugqphasxthenphaufj,hugqhpuzhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhPjjngbhoej
e piugq,hejhzuphpxhxrjszejytjqhoeuohejhpuohqxzghubung,hqsuzngbhenphejuq
qxzghoxhenphpex yqjsp,huphnahejhzugojqhoxhqnpummjus;hi ohejhtuqjhug
jaaxsohxrjshentpjya,hbxoh mhugqhpunq:

“PejhnphqcngbkhOejhqxfoxsphpuchoejsjhnphgxhexmjkhNhuthjgonsjychnghcx s
mxzjs,hxgychyjohtjhijhejsjhkkkhoex behNhuthuohcx shqnpmxpuykhNkkkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpjjngbhRsxgplc’phojusp,hajyohuhs pehxahoeuo
gjsrx phjtxonxghuyzucphmsxq fjqhnghenthichoejhpnbeohxahxoejshmjxmyj’p
p aajsngb,hugqho sgngbhuzuchenphaufj,hejhtxrjqhe ssnjqychoxhoejhqxxs,
znoex ohejusngbhoejhsjpohxahenphzxsqpkhAsxthoejhijqsxxthfutjhoejhpx gq
xahUggu’phrxnfjhpucngbhpxtjoengbkhEjshrxnfjhzuphynrjyc,hjubjs,hznoe
jvfjjqngbychqnpongfohngoxguonxgpkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohngoxhoej
ijqsxxt,hugqhzjgoh mhoxhoejhijqkhPejhzuphycngbho sgjqhznoehejshaufj
oxzusqphentkhEjshfejjlphzjsjhay pejqhfsntpxg,hejshjcjphbynoojsjq,hejs
ynooyjhzenojheugqphoes pohx ohasxthoejhpyjjrjphxahejshqsjppngbhbxzg
zjsjhmyucngbhznoehoejhw nyo,hoznpongbhnohuix okhNohpjjtjqhuphoex behpej
zjsjhgxohxgychzjyyhugqhiyxxtngb,hi ohnghoejheummnjpohasutjhxahtngqkhPej
zuphouylngbhsumnqyc,ht pnfuyyc,hugqhznoehjvfjmonxguyychfxssjfo
usonf yuonxghugqhjvmsjppnrjhngoxguonxgk

“AxshUyjvjc—NhuthpmjulngbhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeh(zeuohuhposugbjhugq
uza yhoengbhoeuohixoehusjhUyjvjc,hnpg’ohno?)—Uyjvjchzx yqhgxohsja pj
tjkhNhpex yqhaxsbjo,hejhzx yqhaxsbnrjkkkkhI ohzechqxjpg’ohejhfxtj?hEj’p
pxhbxxqhejhqxjpg’ohlgxzhentpjyahexzhbxxqhejhnpkhUe,htchBxq,hzeuohubxgc!
Bnrjhtjhpxtjhzuojs,hw nfl!hXe,hoeuohznyyhijhiuqhaxshejs,htchynooyj
bnsy!hXe,hrjschzjyyhoejg,hbnrjhejshoxhuhg spjkhCjp,hNhubsjj,hno’p
ijoojshnghaufokhEj’yyhijhfxtngb;hnohznyyhe sohenthoxhpjjhejskhBnrjhejs
oxhoejhg spjk”

“UgguhUsluqcjrgu,hejheuphfxtjkhEjsjhejhnp!”hpunqhoejhtnqznaj,hoscngbhox
uoosufohejshuoojgonxghoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Xe,hzeuohgxgpjgpj!”hUgguhzjgohxg,hgxohpjjngbhejshe piugqkh“Gx,hbnrj
ejshoxhtj;hbnrjhtjhtchynooyjhxgj!hEjheuphgxohfxtjhcjokhCx hpuchejhzxg’o
axsbnrjhtj,hijfu pjhcx hqxg’ohlgxzhentkhGxhxgjhlgxzphentkhN’thoejhxgyc
xgj,hugqhnohzupheusqhaxshtjhjrjgkhEnphjcjphNhx beohoxhlgxz—Pjscxdeuheup
. pohoejhputjhjcjp—ugqhNhfug’ohijushoxhpjjhoejthijfu pjhxahnokhEup
Pjscxdeuheuqhenphqnggjs?hNhlgxzhjrjscxgjhznyyhaxsbjohentkhEjhzx yqhgxo
axsbjokhPjscxdeuht pohijhtxrjqhngoxhoejhfxsgjshsxxt,hugqhTusnjoojht po
ijhupljqhoxhpyjjmhznoehentk”

Uyyhxahuhp qqjghpejhpesuglhiufl,hzuphpnyjgo;hugqhnghojssxs,huphoex be
jvmjfongbhuhiyxz,huphoex behoxhqjajgqhejspjya,hpejhsunpjqhejsheugqphox
ejshaufjkhPejheuqhpjjghejshe piugqk

“Gx,hgx!”hpejhijbugkh“Nhuthgxohuasunqhxahent;hNhuthuasunqhxahqjuoek
Uyjvjc,hfxtjhejsjkhNhuthnghuhe ssc,hijfu pjhN’rjhgxhontj,hN’rjhgxohyxgb
yjaohoxhynrj;hoejhajrjshznyyhijbnghqnsjfoychugqhNhpeuyyh gqjspougq
gxoengbhtxsjkhGxzhNh gqjspougq,hNh gqjspougqhnohuyy,hNhpjjhnohuyy!”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phzsnglyjqhaufjhzxsjhughjvmsjppnxghxahubxgc;hej
oxxlhejshichoejheugqhugqhosnjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hi ohejhfx yqhgxoh oojs
no;henphyxzjshynmhw nrjsjq,hi ohejhponyyhzjgohxghpos bbyngbhznoehenp
jtxonxg,hugqhxgychgxzhugqhoejghbyugfjqhuohejskhUgqhjufehontjhejhbyugfjq
uohejs,hejhpuzhejshjcjphbudngbhuohenthznoehp fehmuppnxguojhugq
osn tmeugohojgqjsgjpphuphejheuqhgjrjshpjjghnghoejtk

“Zunohuhtng oj,hcx hqxg’ohlgxzhkkkhpouchuhynooyj,hpouc!kkk”hPej
poxmmjq,huphoex behfxyyjfongbhejshnqjupkh“Cjp,”hpejhijbug;h“cjp,hcjp,
cjpkhOenphnphzeuohNhzugojqhoxhpuckhQxg’ohijhp smsnpjqhuohtjkhN’thponyy
oejhputjkkkkhI ohoejsjhnphugxoejshzxtughnghtj,hN’thuasunqhxahejs:hpej
yxrjqhoeuohtug,hugqhNhosnjqhoxheuojhcx ,hugqhfx yqhgxohaxsbjohuix ohejs
oeuoh pjqhoxhijkhN’thgxohoeuohzxtugkhGxzhN’thtchsjuyhpjya,huyyhtcpjyak
N’thqcngbhgxz,hNhlgxzhNhpeuyyhqnj,huplhentkhJrjghgxzhNhajjy—pjjhejsj,
oejhzjnbeophxghtchajjo,hxghtcheugqp,hxghtchangbjspkhTchangbjsp—pjjhexz
e bjhoejchusj!hI ohoenphznyyhpxxghuyyhijhxrjskkkkhXgychxgjhoengbhN
zugo:haxsbnrjhtj,haxsbnrjhtjhw nojkhN’thojssniyj,hi ohtchg spjh pjqhox
ojyyhtj;hoejhexychtusocs—zeuohzuphejshgutj?hPejhzuphzxspjkhUgqhN’yyhbx
oxhSxtj;hoejsj’phuhznyqjsgjpp,hugqhoejsjhNhpeuyyhijhgxhosx iyjhox
ugcxgj,hxgychN’yyhouljhPjscxdeuhugqhoejhynooyjhxgjkkkkhGx,hcx hfug’o
axsbnrjhtj!hNhlgxz,hnohfug’ohijhaxsbnrjg!hGx,hgx,hbxhuzuc,hcx ’sjhoxx
bxxq!”hPejhejyqhenpheugqhnghxgjhi sgngbheugq,hzenyjhpejhm pejqhenthuzuc
znoehoejhxoejsk

Oejhgjsrx phubnouonxghxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehljmohngfsjupngb,hugqheuq
ichgxzhsjufejqhp fehuhmxngohoeuohejhfjupjqhoxhpos bbyjhznoehnokhEj
p qqjgychajyohoeuohzeuohejheuqhsjbusqjqhuphgjsrx phubnouonxghzuphxghoej
fxgosuschuhiynppa yhpmnsno uyhfxgqnonxghoeuohburjhenthuyyhuohxgfjhuhgjz
eummngjpphejheuqhgjrjshlgxzgkhEjhqnqhgxohoenglhoeuohoejhFesnponughyuz
oeuohejheuqhijjghuyyhenphynajhoscngbhoxhaxyyxz,hjg.xngjqhxghenthox
axsbnrjhugqhyxrjhenphjgjtnjp;hi ohuhbyuqhajjyngbhxahyxrjhugq
axsbnrjgjpphaxshenphjgjtnjphanyyjqhenphejusokhEjhlgjyohqxzg,hugqhyucngb
enphejuqhnghoejhf srjhxahejshust,hzenfehi sgjqhenthuphznoehansjhoesx be
oejhpyjjrj,hejhpxiijqhynljhuhynooyjhfenyqkhPejhm ohejshusthusx gqhenp
ejuq,htxrjqhoxzusqphent,hugqhznoehqjanugohmsnqjhynaojqh mhejshjcjpk

“OeuohnphejkhNhlgjzhent!hGxz,haxsbnrjhtj,hjrjscxgj,haxsbnrjhtj!kkk
Oejc’rjhfxtjhubung;hzechqxg’ohoejchbxhuzuc?kkkhXe,houljhoejpjhfyxulp
xaahtj!”

Oejhqxfoxsh gyxxpjqhejsheugqp,hfusja yychyucngbhejshxghoejhmnyyxz,hugq
fxrjsjqhejsh mhoxhoejhpex yqjspkhPejhyuchiuflhp itnppnrjyc,hugqhyxxljq
ijaxsjhejshznoehijutngbhjcjpk

“Sjtjtijshxgjhoengb,hoeuohNhgjjqjqhgxoengbhi ohaxsbnrjgjpp,hugqhNhzugo
gxoengbhtxsjkkkkhZechqxjpg’oh_ej_hfxtj?”hpejhpunq,ho sgngbhoxhoejhqxxs
oxzusqphRsxgplckh“Qxhfxtj,hqxhfxtj!hBnrjhenthcx sheugqk”

Rsxgplchfutjhoxhoejhpnqjhxahoejhijq,hugqhpjjngbhUggu,hubunghenqhenp
aufjhnghenpheugqpk

“ gfxrjshcx shaufj—yxxlhuohent!hEj’phuhpungo,”hpejhpunqkh“Xe!h gfxrjs
cx shaufj,hqxh gfxrjshno!”hpejhpunqhugbsnyckh“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hqx
 gfxrjshenphaufj!hNhzugohoxhpjjhentk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhRsxgplc’pheugqphugqhqsjzhoejthuzuchasxthenp
aufj,hzenfehzuphuza yhznoehoejhjvmsjppnxghxahubxgchugqhpeutjh mxghnok

“Bnrjhenthcx sheugqkhAxsbnrjhentk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehburjhenthenpheugq,hgxohuoojtmongbhoxhsjposunghoej
ojusphoeuohposjutjqhasxthenphjcjpk

“OeuglhBxq,hoeuglhBxq!”hpejhpunq,h“gxzhjrjscoengbhnphsjuqckhXgychox
posjofehtchyjbphuhynooyjkhOejsj,hoeuo’phfumnouykhExzhiuqychoejpj
ayxzjsphusjhqxgj—gxohuhinohynljhuhrnxyjo,”hpejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoej
eugbngbpkh“TchBxq,htchBxq!hzejghznyyhnohjgq?hBnrjhtjhpxtjhtxsmengjk
Qxfoxs,hbnrjhtjhpxtjhtxsmengj!hXe,htchBxq,htchBxq!”

Ugqhpejhoxppjqhuix ohxghoejhijqk

Oejhqxfoxsphpunqhoeuohnohzuphm jsmjsuyhajrjs,hugqhoeuohnohzup
gngjoc-gngjhfeugfjphnghuhe gqsjqhnohzx yqhjgqhnghqjuoekhOejhzexyjhquc
yxgbhoejsjhzuphajrjs,hqjynsn t,hugqh gfxgpfnx pgjppkhUohtnqgnbeohoej
muonjgohyuchznoex ohfxgpfnx pgjpp,hugqhuytxpohznoex ohm ypjk

Oejhjgqhzuphjvmjfojqhjrjschtng ojk

Rsxgplcheuqhbxgjhextj,hi ohnghoejhtxsgngbhejhfutjhoxhngw nsj,hugq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehtjjongbhenthnghoejheuyy,hpunq:h“Ijoojshpouc,hpej
tnbeohuplhaxshcx ,”hugqhentpjyahyjqhenthoxhenphznaj’phix qxnskhOxzusqp
txsgngb,hoejsjhzuphuhsjo sghubunghxahjvfnojtjgo,hsumnqhoex beohugq
ouyl,hugqhubunghnohjgqjqhngh gfxgpfnx pgjppkhXghoejhoensqhquchnohzup
oejhputjhoengb,hugqhoejhqxfoxsphpunqhoejsjhzuphexmjkhOeuohquchUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohngoxhoejhix qxnshzejsjhRsxgplchzuphpnoongb,hugq
fyxpngbhoejhqxxshpuohqxzghxmmxpnojhentk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hajjyngbhoeuohuhpouojtjgohxahoej
mxpnonxghzuphfxtngb,h“Nhfug’ohpmjul,hNhfug’oh gqjspougqkhPmusjhtj!
Exzjrjsheusqhnohnphaxshcx ,hijynjrjhtj,hnohnphtxsjhojssniyjhaxshtjk”

Ejhzx yqheurjhsnpjg;hi ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhenthichoejheugqhugq
punq:

“Nhijbhcx hoxhejushtjhx o;hnohnphgjfjppusckhNht pohjvmyunghtchajjyngbp,
oejhajjyngbphoeuoheurjhb nqjqhtjhugqhznyyhb nqjhtj,hpxhoeuohcx htuchgxo
ijhnghjssxshsjbusqngbhtjkhCx hlgxzhNheuqhsjpxyrjqhxghuhqnrxsfj,hugqheuq
jrjghijb ghoxhouljhmsxfjjqngbpkhNhzxg’ohfxgfjuyhasxthcx hoeuohng
ijbnggngbhoenphNhzuphngh gfjsoungoc,hNhzuphnghtnpjsc;hNhznyyhfxgajpp
oeuohNhzuphm sp jqhichuhqjpnsjhoxhsjrjgbjhtcpjyahxghcx hugqhxghejsk
ZejghNhbxohoejhojyjbsut,hNhfutjhejsjhznoehoejhputjhajjyngbp;hNhznyyhpuc
txsj,hNhyxgbjqhaxshejshqjuoekhI okkkk”hEjhmu pjq,hmxgqjsngbhzejoejshox
qnpfyxpjhxshgxohoxhqnpfyxpjhenphajjyngbhoxhentkh“I ohNhpuzhejshugq
axsburjhejskhUgqhoejheummngjpphxahaxsbnrjgjppheuphsjrjuyjqhoxhtjhtc
q ockhNhaxsbnrjhfxtmyjojyckhNhzx yqhxaajshoejhxoejshfejjl,hNhzx yqhbnrj
tchfyxulhnahtchfxuohijhouljgkhNhmsuchoxhBxqhxgychgxohoxhouljhasxthtj
oejhiynpphxahaxsbnrjgjpp!”

Ojusphpoxxqhnghenphjcjp,hugqhoejhy tngx p,hpjsjgjhyxxlhnghoejt
ntmsjppjqhRsxgplck

“Oenphnphtchmxpnonxg:hcx hfughosutmyjhtjhnghoejht q,htuljhtjhoej
yu bengb-poxflhxahoejhzxsyq,hNhznyyhgxohuiugqxghejs,hugqhNhznyyhgjrjs
 oojshuhzxsqhxahsjmsxufehoxhcx ,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohxgkh“Tc
q ochnphfyjusychtusljqhaxshtj;hNhx beohoxhijhznoehejs,hugqhNhznyyhijk
Nahpejhznpejphoxhpjjhcx ,hNhznyyhyjohcx hlgxz,hi ohgxzhNhp mmxpjhno
zx yqhijhijoojshaxshcx hoxhbxhuzuck”

Ejhbxoh m,hugqhpxiphf ohpexsohenphzxsqpkhRsxgplchoxxhzuphbjoongbh m,
ugqhnghuhpoxxmngb,hgxohcjohjsjfohmxpo sj,hyxxljqh mhuohenthasxth gqjs
enphisxzpkhEjhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phajjyngb,hi o
ejhajyohoeuohnohzuphpxtjoengbhenbejshugqhjrjgh guoounguiyjhaxshenthznoe
enphrnjzhxahynajk


Feumojsh18

UaojshoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hRsxgplchzjgohx o
xgoxhoejhpojmphxahoejhLusjgngp’hex pjhugqhpoxxqhponyy,hznoehqnaanf yoc
sjtjtijsngbhzejsjhejhzup,hugqhzejsjhejhx beohoxhzuylhxshqsnrjkhEjhajyo
qnpbsufjq,he tnynuojq,hb nyoc,hugqhqjmsnrjqhxahuyyhmxppninynochxa
zupengbhuzuchenphe tnynuonxgkhEjhajyohoes pohx ohxahoejhijuojghosufl
uyxgbhzenfehejheuqhpxhmsx qychugqhynbeoychzuyljqhonyyhoejgkhUyyhoej
euinophugqhs yjphxahenphynajhoeuoheuqhpjjtjqhpxhanst,heuqho sgjqhx o
p qqjgychauypjhugqhngummynfuiyjkhOejhijosucjqhe piugq,hzexheuqhanb sjq
onyyhoeuohontjhuphuhmnona yhfsjuo sj,hughngfnqjgouyhugqhpxtjzeuo
y qnfsx phxipoufyjhoxhenpheummngjpp,heuqhp qqjgychijjghp ttxgjqhichejs
ejspjya,hjyjruojqhoxhughuzj-ngpmnsngbhmnggufyj,hugqhxghoejhmnggufyj
oeuohe piugqheuqhpexzghentpjya,hgxohtuynbgugo,hgxohauypj,hgxo
y qnfsx p,hi ohlngqhugqhposunbeoaxszusqhugqhyusbjkhRsxgplchfx yqhgxo
i ohajjyhoenp,hugqhoejhmusophzjsjhp qqjgychsjrjspjqkhRsxgplchajyohenp
jyjruonxghugqhenphxzghuiupjtjgo,henphos oehugqhenphxzghauypjexxqkhEj
ajyohoeuohoejhe piugqhzuphtubgugntx phjrjghnghenphpxssxz,hzenyjhejheuq
ijjghiupjhugqhmjoochnghenphqjfjnokhI ohoenphpjgpjhxahenphxzg
e tnynuonxghijaxsjhoejhtughejheuqh g. poychqjpmnpjqhtuqjh mhxgychu
ptuyyhmusohxahenphtnpjsckhEjhajyoh g oojsuiychzsjofejqhgxz,haxshenp
muppnxghaxshUggu,hzenfeheuqhpjjtjqhoxhenthxahyuojhoxhijhbsxzngbhfxxyjs,
gxzhoeuohejhlgjzhejheuqhyxpohejshaxsjrjs,hzuphposxgbjshoeughjrjshnoheuq
ijjgkhEjheuqhpjjghuyyhxahejshnghejshnyygjpp,heuqhfxtjhoxhlgxzhejshrjsc
px y,hugqhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejheuqhgjrjshyxrjqhejshonyyhoejgkhUgq
gxzhzejghejheuqhyjusgjqhoxhlgxzhejs,hoxhyxrjhejshuphpejhpex yqhij
yxrjq,hejheuqhijjghe tnynuojqhijaxsjhejs,hugqheuqhyxpohejshaxsjrjs,
yjurngbhznoehejshgxoengbhxahentpjyahi ohuhpeutja yhtjtxsckhTxpo
ojssniyjhxahuyyheuqhijjghenphy qnfsx p,hpeutja yhmxpnonxghzejghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhm yyjqhenpheugqphuzuchasxthenphe tnynuojqhaufjkhEj
poxxqhxghoejhpojmphxahoejhLusjgngp’hex pjhynljhxgjhqnposu beo,hugqhqnq
gxohlgxzhzeuohoxhqxk

“Uhpyjqbj,hpns?”hupljqhoejhmxsojsk

“Cjp,huhpyjqbjk”

Xghbjoongbhextj,huaojshoesjjhpyjjmyjpphgnbeop,hRsxgplc,hznoex o
 gqsjppngb,hyuchqxzghayuohxghoejhpxau,hfyupmngbhenpheugqphugqhyucngb
enphejuqhxghoejtkhEnphejuqhzuphejurckhNtubjp,htjtxsnjp,hugqhnqjuphxa
oejhposugbjpohqjpfsnmonxghaxyyxzjqhxgjhugxoejshznoehjvosuxsqngusc
sumnqnochugqhrnrnqgjppkhAnspohnohzuphoejhtjqnfngjhejheuqhmx sjqhx ohaxs
oejhmuonjgohugqhpmnyohxrjshoejhpmxxg,hoejghoejhtnqznaj’phzenojheugqp,
oejghoejhw jjshmxpo sjhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehxghoejhayxxshijpnqjhoej
ijqk

“Oxhpyjjm!hOxhaxsbjo!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahznoehoejhpjsjgjhfxganqjgfjhxa
uhejuyoechtughoeuohnahejhnphonsjqhugqhpyjjmc,hejhznyyhbxhoxhpyjjmhuo
xgfjkhUgqhoejhputjhngpougohenphejuqhqnqhijbnghoxhajjyhqsxzpchugqhej
ijbughoxhqsxmhxaahngoxhaxsbjoa ygjppkhOejhzurjphxahoejhpjuhxa
 gfxgpfnx pgjppheuqhijb ghoxhtjjohxrjshenphejuq,hzejghuyyhuohxgfj—no
zuphuphoex behuhrnxyjgohpexflhxahjyjfosnfnocheuqhmuppjqhxrjshentkhEj
pousojqhpxhoeuohejhyjumjqh mhxghoejhpmsngbphxahoejhpxau,hugqhyjugngbhxg
enphustphbxohnghuhmugnfhxgoxhenphlgjjpkhEnphjcjphzjsjhznqjhxmjghup
oex behejheuqhgjrjshijjghupyjjmkhOejhejurngjpphnghenphejuqhugqhoej
zjusngjpphnghenphyntiphoeuohejheuqhajyohuhtng ojhijaxsjheuqhp qqjgyc
bxgjk

“Cx htuchosutmyjhtjhnghoejht q,”hejhejusqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phzxsqp
ugqhpuzhenthpougqngbhijaxsjhent,hugqhpuzhUggu’phaufjhznoehnophi sgngb
ay pehugqhbynoojsngbhjcjp,hbudngbhznoehyxrjhugqhojgqjsgjpphgxohuohent
i ohuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe;hejhpuzhenphxzg,huphejhaugfnjq,haxxynpe
ugqhy qnfsx phanb sjhzejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhenpheugqphuzuc
asxthenphaufjkhEjhposjofejqhx ohenphyjbphubunghugqhay gbhentpjyahxghoej
pxauhnghoejhputjhmxpnonxghugqhpe ohenphjcjpk

“Oxhpyjjm!hOxhaxsbjo!”hejhsjmjuojqhoxhentpjyakhI ohznoehenphjcjphpe o
ejhpuzhtxsjhqnpongfoychoeughjrjshUggu’phaufjhuphnoheuqhijjghxghoej
tjtxsuiyjhjrjgngbhijaxsjhoejhsufjpk

“Oeuohnphgxohugqhznyyhgxohij,hugqhpejhzugophoxhznmjhnohx ohxahejs
tjtxsckhI ohNhfuggxohynrjhznoex ohnokhExzhfughzjhijhsjfxgfnyjq?hexzhfug
zjhijhsjfxgfnyjq?”hejhpunqhuyx q,hugqh gfxgpfnx pychijbughoxhsjmjuo
oejpjhzxsqpkhOenphsjmjononxghfejfljqhoejhsnpngbh mhxahasjpehntubjphugq
tjtxsnjp,hzenfehejhajyohzjsjhoesxgbngbhnghenphisungkhI ohsjmjuongb
zxsqphqnqhgxohfejflhenphntubnguonxghaxshyxgbkhUbunghnghjvosuxsqngusnyc
sumnqhp ffjppnxghenphijpohtxtjgophsxpjhijaxsjhenphtngq,hugqhoejghenp
sjfjgohe tnynuonxgkh“Ouljhuzuchenpheugqp,”hUggu’phrxnfjhpucpkhEjhouljp
uzuchenpheugqphugqhajjyphoejhpeutjpos flhugqhnqnxonfhjvmsjppnxghxahenp
aufjk

Ejhponyyhyuchqxzg,hoscngbhoxhpyjjm,hoex behejhajyohoejsjhzuphgxohoej
ptuyyjpohexmjhxahno,hugqhljmohsjmjuongbhposuchzxsqphasxthpxtjhfeunghxa
oex beo,hoscngbhichoenphoxhfejflhoejhsnpngbhayxxqhxahasjpehntubjpkhEj
ynpojgjq,hugqhejusqhnghuhposugbj,htuqhzenpmjshzxsqphsjmjuojq:h“Nhqnq
gxohummsjfnuojhno,hqnqhgxohtuljhjgx behxahnokhNhqnqhgxohummsjfnuojhno,
qnqhgxohtuljhjgx behxahnok”

“Zeuo’phoenp?hUthNhbxngbhx ohxahtchtngq?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakh“Mjseumpk
Zeuohtuljphtjghbxhx ohxahoejnshtngqp;hzeuohtuljphtjghpexxohoejtpjyrjp?”
ejhugpzjsjqhentpjya,hugqhxmjgngbhenphjcjp,hejhpuzhznoehzxgqjshug
jtisxnqjsjqhf penxghijpnqjhent,hzxsljqhichRuscu,henphisxoejs’phznajkhEj
ox fejqhoejhouppjyhxahoejhf penxg,hugqhosnjqhoxhoenglhxahRuscu,hxahzejg
ejheuqhpjjghejshyupokhI ohoxhoenglhxahugcoengbhjvosugjx phzuphug
ubxgndngbhjaaxsokh“Gx,hNht pohpyjjm!”hEjhtxrjqhoejhf penxgh m,hugq
msjppjqhenphejuqhngoxhno,hi ohejheuqhoxhtuljhughjaaxsohoxhljjmhenphjcjp
pe okhEjh. tmjqh mhugqhpuohqxzgkh“Oeuo’phuyyhxrjshaxshtj,”hejhpunqhox
entpjyakh“Nht pohoenglhzeuohoxhqxkhZeuohnphyjao?”hEnphtngqhsumnqychsug
oesx behenphynajhumusohasxthenphyxrjhxahUgguk

“Utinonxg?hPjsm exrplxc?hPxfnjoc?hOejhfx so?”hEjhfx yqhgxohfxtjhoxhu
mu pjhugczejsjkhUyyhxahnoheuqheuqhtjugngbhijaxsj,hi ohgxzhoejsjhzuphgx
sjuynochnghnokhEjhbxoh mhasxthoejhpxau,hoxxlhxaahenphfxuo,h gqnqhenp
ijyo,hugqh gfxrjsngbhenpheunschfejpohoxhisjuoejhtxsjhasjjyc,hzuyljqh m
ugqhqxzghoejhsxxtkh“Oenphnphexzhmjxmyjhbxhtuq,”hejhsjmjuojq,h“ugqhexz
oejchpexxohoejtpjyrjphkkkhoxhjpfumjhe tnynuonxg,”hejhuqqjqhpyxzyck

Ejhzjgohoxhoejhqxxshugqhfyxpjqhno,hoejghznoehanvjqhjcjphugqhfyjgfejq
ojjoehejhzjgoh mhoxhoejhouiyj,hoxxlhuhsjrxyrjs,hyxxljqhsx gqhent,
o sgjqhnohoxhuhyxuqjqhiussjy,hugqhpuglhngoxhoex beokhAxshozxhtng ojp,
enphejuqhijgohaxszusqhznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahughngojgpjhjaaxsohxa
oex beo,hejhpoxxqhznoehoejhsjrxyrjshnghenpheugq,htxonxgyjpp,hoenglngbk

“Xahfx spj,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,huphoex behuhyxbnfuy,hfxgong x p,hugq
fyjushfeunghxahsjupxgngbheuqhisx beohenthoxhughngq inouiyjhfxgfy pnxgk
Nghsjuynochoenph“xahfx spj,”hoeuohpjjtjqhfxgrngfngbhoxhent,hzuphpntmyc
oejhsjp yohxahjvufoychoejhputjhfnsfyjhxahtjtxsnjphugqhntubjphoesx be
zenfehejheuqhmuppjqhojghontjphuysjuqchq sngbhoejhyupohex s—tjtxsnjphxa
eummngjpphyxpohaxsjrjskhOejsjhzuphoejhputjhfxgfjmonxghxahoej
pjgpjyjppgjpphxahjrjscoengbhoxhfxtjhnghynaj,hoejhputjhfxgpfnx pgjpphxa
e tnynuonxgkhJrjghoejhpjw jgfjhxahoejpjhntubjphugqhjtxonxgphzuphoej
putjk

“Xahfx spj,”hejhsjmjuojq,hzejghaxshoejhoensqhontjhenphoex beohmuppjq
ubunghsx gqhoejhputjhpmjyyix gqhfnsfyjhxahtjtxsnjphugqhntubjp,hugq
m yyngbhoejhsjrxyrjshoxhoejhyjaohpnqjhxahenphfejpo,hugqhfy ofengbhno
rnbxsx pychznoehenphzexyjheugq,huphnohzjsj,hpw jjdngbhnohnghenphanpo,
ejhm yyjqhoejhosnbbjskhEjhqnqhgxohejushoejhpx gqhxahoejhpexo,hi ohu
rnxyjgohiyxzhxghenphfejpohpjgohenthsjjyngbkhEjhosnjqhoxhfy ofehuohoej
jqbjhxahoejhouiyj,hqsxmmjqhoejhsjrxyrjs,hpoubbjsjq,hugqhpuohqxzghxghoej
bsx gq,hyxxlngbhuix ohenthnghupoxgnpetjgokhEjhqnqhgxohsjfxbgndjhenp
sxxt,hyxxlngbh mhasxthoejhbsx gq,huohoejhijgohyjbphxahoejhouiyj,huohoej
zupojmumjshiupljo,hugqhoejhonbjs-plnghs bkhOejhe ssnjq,hfsjulngbhpojmp
xahenphpjsrugohfxtngbhoesx behoejhqsuzngb-sxxthisx beohenthoxhenp
pjgpjpkhEjhtuqjhughjaaxsohuohoex beo,hugqhzuphuzusjhoeuohejhzuphxghoej
ayxxs;hugqhpjjngbhiyxxqhxghoejhonbjs-plnghs bhugqhxghenphust,hejhlgjz
ejheuqhpexohentpjyak

“Nqnxonf!hTnppjq!”hejhpunq,ha tiyngbhuaojshoejhsjrxyrjskhOejhsjrxyrjs
zuphfyxpjhijpnqjhent—ejhpx beoha soejshxaakhPonyyhajjyngbhaxshno,hej
posjofejqhx ohoxhoejhxoejshpnqj,hugqhgxohijngbhposxgbhjgx behoxhljjm
enphiuyugfj,hajyyhxrjs,hposjutngbhznoehiyxxqk

Oejhjyjbugo,hzenpljsjqhtugpjsrugo,hzexh pjqhoxhijhfxgong uyyc
fxtmyungngbhoxhenphufw ungougfjphxahoejhqjynfufchxahenphgjsrjp,hzuphpx
mugnf-posnfljghxghpjjngbhenphtupojshycngbhxghoejhayxxs,hoeuohejhyjao
enthyxpngbhiyxxqhzenyjhejhsughaxshuppnpougfjkhUghex shyuojshRuscu,henp
isxoejs’phznaj,heuqhussnrjq,hugqhznoehoejhuppnpougfjhxahoesjjhqxfoxsp,
zexthpejheuqhpjgohaxshnghuyyhqnsjfonxgp,hugqhzexhuyyhummjusjqhuohoej
putjhtxtjgo,hpejhbxohoejhzx gqjqhtughoxhijq,hugqhsjtungjqhoxhg spjhentk


Feumojsh19

OejhtnpouljhtuqjhichUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehnghoeuo,hzejghmsjmusngbhaxs
pjjngbhenphznaj,hejheuqhxrjsyxxljqhoejhmxppninynochoeuohejshsjmjgougfj
tnbeohijhpngfjsj,hugqhejhtnbeohaxsbnrjhejs,hugqhpejhtnbeohgxohqnj—oenp
tnpouljhzuphozxhtxgoephuaojshenphsjo sghasxthTxpfxzhisx beohextjhoxhent
nghuyyhnophpnbgnanfugfjkhI ohoejhtnpouljhtuqjhichentheuqhusnpjghgxo
pntmychasxthenpheurngbhxrjsyxxljqhoeuohfxgongbjgfc,hi ohuypxhasxthoej
aufohoeuoh gonyhoeuohquchxahenphngojsrnjzhznoehenphqcngbhznaj,hejheuq
gxohlgxzghenphxzghejusokhUohenphpnflhznaj’phijqpnqjhejheuqhaxshoej
anspohontjhnghenphynajhbnrjghzuchoxhoeuohajjyngbhxahpctmuoejonf
p aajsngbhuyzucphsx pjqhnghenthichoejhp aajsngbphxahxoejsp,hugq
enoejsoxhyxxljqhxghichenthznoehpeutjhuphuheusta yhzjulgjppkhUgqhmnoc
axshejs,hugqhsjtxspjhaxsheurngbhqjpnsjqhejshqjuoe,hugqhtxpohxahuyy,hoej
.xchxahaxsbnrjgjpp,htuqjhenthuohxgfjhfxgpfnx p,hgxohpntmychxahoej
sjynjahxahenphxzghp aajsngbp,hi ohxahuhpmnsno uyhmjufjhejheuqhgjrjs
jvmjsnjgfjqhijaxsjkhEjhp qqjgychajyohoeuohoejhrjschoengbhoeuohzuphoej
px sfjhxahenphp aajsngbpheuqhijfxtjhoejhpx sfjhxahenphpmnsno uyh.xc;
oeuohzeuoheuqhpjjtjqhngpxy iyjhzenyjhejhzuph. qbngb,hiyutngb,hugq
euongb,heuqhijfxtjhfyjushugqhpntmyjhzejghejhaxsburjhugqhyxrjqk

Ejhaxsburjhenphznajhugqhmnonjqhejshaxshejshp aajsngbphugqhejshsjtxspjk
EjhaxsburjhRsxgplc,hugqhmnonjqhent,hjpmjfnuyychuaojshsjmxsophsjufejq
enthxahenphqjpmunsngbhufonxgkhEjhajyohtxsjhaxshenphpxghoeughijaxsjkhUgq
ejhiyutjqhentpjyahgxzhaxsheurngbhouljghoxxhynooyjhngojsjpohnghentkhI o
axshoejhynooyjhgjzixsghiuichejhajyohuhw nojhmjf ynushpjgontjgo,hgxohxa
mnoc,hxgyc,hi ohxahojgqjsgjppkhUohanspo,hasxthuhajjyngbhxahfxtmuppnxg
uyxgj,hejheuqhijjghngojsjpojqhnghoejhqjynfuojhynooyjhfsjuo sj,hzexhzup
gxohenphfenyq,hugqhzexhzuphfupohxghxgjhpnqjhq sngbhejshtxoejs’p
nyygjpp,hugqhzx yqhfjsoungycheurjhqnjqhnahejheuqhgxohosx iyjqhuix o
ejs,hugqhejhqnqhgxohentpjyahxipjsrjhexzhaxgqhejhijfutjhxahejskhEjhzx yq
bxhngoxhoejhg spjschpjrjsuyhontjphuhquc,hugqhpnohoejsjhaxshuhyxgb
zenyj,hpxhoeuohoejhg spjp,hzexhzjsjhuohanspohuasunqhxahent,hbxohw noj
 pjqhoxhenphmsjpjgfjkhPxtjontjphaxsheuyahughex shuohuhposjofehejhzx yq
pnohpnyjgoychbudngbhuohoejhpuaasxg-sjq,hqxzgc,hzsnglyjqhaufjhxahoej
pyjjmngbhiuic,hzuofengbhoejhtxrjtjgophxahoejhasxzgngbhisxzp,hugqhoej
auohynooyjheugqp,hznoehfyjgfejqhangbjsp,hoeuohs iijqhoejhynooyjhjcjp
ugqhgxpjkhUohp fehtxtjgophmusonf yusyc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhu
pjgpjhxahmjsajfohmjufjhugqhngzusqheustxgc,hugqhpuzhgxoengb
jvosuxsqnguschnghenphmxpnonxg,hgxoengbhoeuohx beohoxhijhfeugbjqk

I ohuphontjhzjgohxg,hejhpuzhtxsjhugqhtxsjhqnpongfoychoeuohexzjrjs
guo suyhoejhmxpnonxghgxzhpjjtjqhoxhent,hejhzx yqhgxohyxgbhijhuyyxzjqhox
sjtunghnghnokhEjhajyohoeuohijpnqjphoejhiyjppjqhpmnsno uyhaxsfj
fxgosxyyngbhenphpx y,hoejsjhzuphugxoejs,huhis ouyhaxsfj,huphmxzjsa y,
xshtxsjhmxzjsa y,hzenfehfxgosxyyjqhenphynaj,hugqhoeuohoenphaxsfjhzx yq
gxohuyyxzhenthoeuohe tiyjhmjufjhejhyxgbjqhaxskhEjhajyohoeuohjrjscxgj
zuphyxxlngbhuohenthznoehngw nsngbhzxgqjs,hoeuohejhzuphgxoh gqjspoxxq,
ugqhoeuohpxtjoengbhzuphjvmjfojqhxahentkhUixrjhuyy,hejhajyohoej
ngpouinynochugqh gguo suygjpphxahenphsjyuonxgphznoehenphznajk

Zejghoejhpxaojgngbhjaajfohxahoejhgjushummsxufehxahqjuoeheuqhmuppjq
uzuc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehijbughoxhgxonfjhoeuohUgguhzuphuasunqhxa
ent,hnyyhuohjupjhznoehent,hugqhfx yqhgxohyxxlhenthposunbeohnghoejhaufjk
Pejhpjjtjqhoxhijhzugongb,hugqhgxohqusngb,hoxhojyyhenthpxtjoengb;hugqhup
oex behaxsjpjjngbhoejnshmsjpjgohsjyuonxgphfx yqhgxohfxgong j,hpej
pjjtjqhoxhijhjvmjfongbhpxtjoengbhasxthentk

OxzusqphoejhjgqhxahAjis uschnoheummjgjqhoeuohUggu’phiuichqu beojs,hzex
euqhijjghgutjqhUgguhoxx,hajyyhnyykhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphnghoej
g spjschnghoejhtxsgngb,hugqhyjurngbhxsqjsphaxshoejhqxfoxshoxhijhpjgo
axs,hejhzjgohoxhenphxaanfjkhXghangnpengbhenphzxsl,hejhsjo sgjqhextjhuo
ax skhBxngbhngoxhoejheuyyhejhpuzhuheugqpxtjhbsxxt,hnghuhisunqjqhynrjsc
ugqhuhijusha shfumj,hexyqngbhuhzenojha shfyxulk

“Zexhnphejsj?”hupljqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“MsngfjpphJyndurjouhAjqjsxrguhOrjsplucu,”hoejhbsxxthugpzjsjq,hugqhno
pjjtjqhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoeuohejhbsnggjqk

Q sngbhuyyhoenphqnaanf yohontjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhgxonfjqhoeuo
enphzxsyqychufw ungougfjp,hjpmjfnuyychzxtjg,hoxxlhuhmjf ynushngojsjpo
nghenthugqhenphznajkhUyyhoejpjhufw ungougfjphejhxipjsrjqhznoe
qnaanf yochfxgfjuyngbhoejnshtnsoehuohpxtjoengb;hoejhputjhtnsoehoeuohej
euqhmjsfjnrjqhnghoejhyuzcjs’phjcjp,hugqh. pohgxzhnghoejhjcjphxahoenp
bsxxtkhJrjscxgjhpjjtjq,hpxtjexz,he bjychqjynbeojq,huphoex behoejcheuq
. pohijjghuohuhzjqqngbkhZejghoejchtjohent,hznoehnyy-qnpb npjqhjg.xctjgo
oejchngw nsjqhuaojshenphznaj’phejuyoekhOejhmsjpjgfjhxahMsngfjpp
Orjsplucuhzuph gmyjupugohoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehasxthoejhtjtxsnjp
uppxfnuojqhznoehejs,hugqhuypxhijfu pjhejhqnpynljqhejs,hugqhejhzjgo
posunbeohoxhoejhg spjsckhNghoejhquchg spjschPjscxdeu,hyjugngbhxghoej
ouiyjhznoehenphyjbphxghuhfeuns,hzuphqsuzngbhugqhfeuoongbhuzuchtjssnyck
OejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpp,hzexheuqhq sngbhUggu’phnyygjpphsjmyufjqhoej
Asjgfehxgj,hzuphpnoongbhgjushoejhixchlgnoongbhuhpeuzykhPejhe ssnjqyc
bxoh m,hf sopjcjq,hugqhm yyjqhPjscxdeuk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehposxljqhenphpxg’pheuns,hugpzjsjqhoejhbxrjsgjpp’p
ngw nsnjphuix ohenphznaj,hugqhupljqhzeuohoejhqxfoxsheuqhpunqhxahoej
iuick

“Oejhqxfoxshpunqhnohzuphgxoengbhpjsnx p,hugqhejhxsqjsjqhuhiuoe,hpnsk”

“I ohpejhnphponyyhnghmung,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hynpojgngbhox
oejhiuic’phpfsjutngbhnghoejhgjvohsxxtk

“Nhoenglhno’phoejhzjo-g spj,hpns,”hoejhJgbynpezxtughpunqhanstyck

“Zeuohtuljphcx hoenglhpx?”hejhupljq,hpoxmmngbhpexsok

“No’ph. pohuphnohzuphuohFx gojpphMu y’p,hpnskhOejchburjhoejhiuic
tjqnfngj,hugqhnoho sgjqhx ohoeuohoejhiuichzuphpntmyche gbsc:hoejhg spj
euqhgxhtnyl,hpnsk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmxgqjsjq,hugqhuaojshpougqngbhponyyhuhajzhpjfxgqp
ejhzjgohnghuohoejhxoejshqxxskhOejhiuichzuphycngbhznoehnophejuqhoesxzg
iufl,hponaajgngbhnopjyahnghoejhg spj’phustp,hugqhzx yqhgxohouljhoej
my tmhisjupohxaajsjqhno;hugqhnohgjrjshfjupjqhpfsjutngbhnghpmnojhxahoej
qx iyjhe pengbhxahoejhzjo-g spjhugqhoejhxoejshg spj,hzexhzuphijgqngb
xrjshejsk

“Ponyyhgxhijoojs?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Pej’phrjschsjpoyjpp,”hugpzjsjqhoejhg spjhnghuhzenpmjsk

“TnpphJqzusqjhpucphoeuohmjseumphoejhzjo-g spjheuphgxhtnyl,”hejhpunqk

“Nhoenglhpxhoxx,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek”

“Oejghzechqnqg’ohcx hpuchpx?”

“Zex’phxgjhoxhpuchnohox?hUgguhUsluqcjrguhponyyhnyykkkk”hpunqhoejhg spj
qnpfxgojgojqyck

Oejhg spjhzuphughxyqhpjsrugohxahoejhautnyckhUgqhnghejshpntmyjhzxsqp
oejsjhpjjtjqhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehughuyy pnxghoxhenphmxpnonxgk

Oejhiuichpfsjutjqhyx qjshoeughjrjs,hpos bbyngbhugqhpxiingbkhOejhg spj,
znoehuhbjpo sjhxahqjpmuns,hzjgohoxhno,hoxxlhnohasxthoejhzjo-g spj’p
ustp,hugqhijbughzuylngbh mhugqhqxzg,hsxflngbhnok

“Cx ht pohuplhoejhqxfoxshoxhjvutngjhoejhzjo-g spj,”hpunqhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofekhOejhptusoychqsjppjqhugqhejuyoec-yxxlngbhg spj,
asnbeojgjqhuohoejhnqjuhxahyxpngbhejshmyufj,ht oojsjqhpxtjoengbhox
ejspjya,hugqhfxrjsngbhejshixpxt,hptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pychuohoejhnqjuhxa
qx iophijngbhfupohxghejshui gqugfjhxahtnylkhNghoeuohptnyj,hoxx,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehpuzhuhpgjjshuohenphmxpnonxgk

“Y flyjpphfenyq!”hpunqhoejhg spj,he pengbhoejhiuic,hugqhponyyhzuylngb
 mhugqhqxzghznoehnok

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpuohqxzg,hugqhznoehuhqjpmxgqjgohugqhp aajsngb
aufjhzuofejqhoejhg spjhzuylngbhoxhugqhasxk

Zejghoejhfenyqhuohyupohzuphponyy,hugqheuqhijjghm ohnghuhqjjmhijq,hugq
oejhg spj,huaojshptxxoengbhoejhynooyjhmnyyxz,heuqhyjaohejs,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehbxoh m,hugqhzuylngbhuzlzusqychxghonmoxj,hummsxufejqhoej
iuickhAxshuhtng ojhejhzuphponyy,hugqhznoehoejhputjhqjpmxgqjgohaufj
budjqhuohoejhiuic;hi ohuyyhuohxgfjhuhptnyj,hoeuohtxrjqhenpheunshugqhoej
plnghxahenphaxsjejuq,hfutjhx ohxghenphaufj,hugqhejhzjgohuphpxaoychx o
xahoejhsxxtk

Nghoejhqngngb-sxxthejhsugbhoejhijyy,hugqhoxyqhoejhpjsrugohzexhfutjhng
oxhpjgqhubunghaxshoejhqxfoxskhEjhajyohrjvjqhznoehenphznajhaxshgxohijngb
ugvnx phuix ohoenphjvw npnojhiuic,hugqhnghoenphrjvjqhe txshejheuqhgx
znpehoxhbxhoxhejs;hejheuqhgxhznpe,hjnoejs,hoxhpjjhMsngfjpphIjopckhI o
enphznajhtnbeohzxgqjshzechejhqnqhgxohbxhoxhejshuph p uy;hugqhpx,
xrjsfxtngbhenphqnpngfynguonxg,hejhzjgohoxzusqphoejhijqsxxtkhUphej
zuyljqhxrjshoejhpxaohs bhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hejhfx yqhgxohejym
xrjsejusngbhuhfxgrjspuonxghejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhejusk

“Nahejheuqg’ohijjghbxngbhuzuc,hNhfx yqheurjh gqjspoxxqhcx shugpzjshugq
enphoxxkhI ohcx she piugqhx beohoxhijhuixrjhoeuo,”hIjopchzuphpucngbk

“No’phgxohaxshtche piugq;haxshtcpjyahNhqxg’ohznpehnokhQxg’ohpuchoeuo!”
ugpzjsjqhUggu’phjvfnojqhrxnfjk

“Cjp,hi ohcx ht pohfusjhoxhpuchbxxq-icjhoxhuhtughzexheuphpexohentpjya
xghcx shuffx gokkkk”

“Oeuo’ph. pohzechNhqxg’ohzugohoxk”

Znoehuhqnptucjqhugqhb nyochjvmsjppnxg,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpoxmmjq
ugqhzx yqheurjhbxgjhiuflh gxipjsrjqkhI ohsjayjfongbhoeuohoenphzx yqhij
 gqnbgnanjq,hejho sgjqhiuflhubung,hugqhfyjusngbhenphoesxuo,hejhzjgoh m
oxhoejhijqsxxtkhOejhrxnfjphzjsjhpnyjgo,hugqhejhzjgohngk

Uggu,hnghuhbsuchqsjppngbhbxzg,hznoehuhfsxmhxahpexsohfy pojsngbhiyufl
f syphxghejshsx gqhejuq,hzuphpnoongbhxghuhpjoojjkhOejhjubjsgjpphqnjq
x ohxahejshaufj,huphnohuyzucphqnq,huohoejhpnbeohxahejshe piugq;hpej
qsxmmjqhejshejuqhugqhyxxljqhsx gqh gjupnychuohIjopckhIjopc,hqsjppjqhng
oejhejnbeohxahoejhyuojpohaupenxg,hnghuheuohoeuohoxzjsjqhpxtjzejsjhxrjs
ejshejuqhynljhuhpeuqjhxghuhyutm,hnghuhiy jhqsjpphznoehrnxyjohfsxppzuc
posnmjphpyugongbhxgjhzuchxghoejhixqnfjhugqhoejhxoejshzuchxghoejhplnso,
zuphpnoongbhijpnqjhUggu,hejshouyyhayuohanb sjhejyqhjsjfokhIxzngbhejs
ejuq,hpejhbsjjojqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehznoehughnsxgnfuyhptnyjk

“Ue!”hpejhpunq,huphoex behp smsnpjqkh“N’thrjschbyuqhcx ’sjhuohextjkhCx 
gjrjshm ohnghughummjusugfjhugczejsj,hugqhNheurjg’ohpjjghcx hjrjshpngfj
UgguheuphijjghnyykhNheurjhejusqhuyyhuix ohno—cx shugvnjockhCjp,hcx ’sj
uhzxgqjsa yhe piugq!”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhtjugngbhugqhuaauiyjhuns,hup
oex behpejhzjsjhijpoxzngbhughxsqjshxahtubgugntnochxghenthaxshenp
fxgq fohoxhenphznajk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehixzjqhasnbnqyc,hugqhlnppngbhenphznaj’pheugq,
upljqhexzhpejhzupk

“Ijoojs,hNhoengl,”hpejhpunq,hurxnqngbhenphjcjpk

“I ohcx ’rjhsuoejshuhajrjsnpe-yxxlngbhfxyxs,”hejhpunq,hyucngbhposjpphxg
oejhzxsqh“ajrjsnpek”

“Zj’rjhijjghouylngbhoxxht fe,”hpunqhIjopckh“Nhajjyhno’phpjyanpegjpphxg
tchmuso,hugqhNhuthbxngbhuzuck”

Pejhbxoh m,hi ohUggu,hp qqjgychay pengb,hw nflychfu beohuohejsheugqk

“Gx,hzunohuhtng oj,hmyjupjkhNht pohojyyhcx hkkkhgx,hcx k”hpejho sgjqhox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhejshgjflhugqhisxzhzjsjhp aa pjqhznoe
fsntpxgkh“Nhzxg’ohugqhfug’ohljjmhugcoengbhpjfsjohasxthcx ,”hpejhpunqk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfsufljqhenphangbjsphugqhixzjqhenphejuqk

“Ijopc’phijjghojyyngbhtjhoeuohFx gohRsxgplchzugophoxhfxtjhejsjhoxhpuc
bxxq-icjhijaxsjhenphqjmuso sjhaxshOupeljgqk”hPejhqnqhgxohyxxlhuohejs
e piugq,hugqhzuphjrnqjgoychngheupojhoxheurjhjrjscoengbhx o,hexzjrjs
eusqhnohtnbeohijhaxshejskh“NhoxyqhejshNhfx yqhgxohsjfjnrjhentk”

“Cx hpunq,htchqjus,hoeuohnohzx yqhqjmjgqhxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,”
Ijopchfxssjfojqhejsk

“Xe,hgx,hNhfug’ohsjfjnrjhent;hugqhzeuohxi.jfohzx yqhoejsjkkkk”hPej
poxmmjqhp qqjgyc,hugqhbyugfjqhngw nsngbychuohejshe piugqh(ejhqnqhgxo
yxxlhuohejs)kh“Nghpexso,hNhqxg’ohznpehnokkkk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuqrugfjqhugqhzx yqheurjhouljghejsheugqk

Ejshanspohntm ypjhzuphoxh.jslhiuflhejsheugqhasxthoejhqutmheugqhznoehinb
pzxyyjghrjngphoeuohpx beohejsp,hi ohznoehughxirnx phjaaxsohoxhfxgosxy
ejspjyahpejhmsjppjqhenpheugqk

“Nhuthrjschbsuoja yhoxhcx haxshcx shfxganqjgfj,hi okkkk”hejhpunq,
ajjyngbhznoehfxga pnxghugqhuggxcugfjhoeuohzeuohejhfx yqhqjfnqjhjupnyc
ugqhfyjusychichentpjya,hejhfx yqhgxohqnpf pphijaxsjhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu,
zexhoxhenthpoxxqhaxshoejhngfusguonxghxahoeuohis ojhaxsfjhzenfehzx yq
ngjrnouiychfxgosxyhenthnghoejhynajhejhyjqhnghoejhjcjphxahoejhzxsyq,hugq
engqjshenthasxthbnrngbhzuchoxhenphajjyngbhxahyxrjhugqhaxsbnrjgjppkhEj
poxmmjqhpexso,hyxxlngbhuohMsngfjpphOrjsplucuk

“Zjyy,hbxxq-icj,htchqusyngb,”hpunqhIjopc,hbjoongbh mkhPejhlnppjqhUggu,
ugqhzjgohx okhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehjpfxsojqhejshx ok

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!hNhlgxzhcx husjhuhos ychtubgugntx phtug,”hpunq
Ijopc,hpoxmmngbhnghoejhynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxt,hugqhznoehpmjfnuyhzustoe
peulngbheugqphznoehenthxgfjhtxsjkh“Nhuthughx opnqjs,hi ohNhpxhyxrjhejs
ugqhsjpmjfohcx hoeuohNhrjgo sjhoxhuqrnpjkhSjfjnrjhentkhUyjvjchRsxgplc
nphoejhpx yhxahexgxs,hugqhejhnphbxngbhuzuchoxhOupeljgqk”

“Oeuglhcx ,hmsngfjpp,haxshcx shpctmuoechugqhuqrnfjkhI ohoejhw jponxghxa
zejoejshtchznajhfughxshfuggxohpjjhugcxgjhpejht pohqjfnqjhejspjyak”

Ejhpunqhoenphasxtheuino,hynaongbhenphisxzphznoehqnbgnoc,hugqhsjayjfojq
nttjqnuojychoeuohzeuojrjshenphzxsqphtnbeohij,hoejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqnbgnoc
nghenphmxpnonxgkhUgqhejhpuzhoenphichoejhp mmsjppjq,htuynfnx p,hugq
nsxgnfuyhptnyjhznoehzenfehIjopchbyugfjqhuohenthuaojshoenphmesupjk


Feumojsh20

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhyjurjhxahIjopchnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hugqhzjgo
oxhenphznajkhPejhzuphycngbhqxzg,hi ohejusngbhenphpojmphpejhpuoh m
euponychnghejshaxstjshuoono qj,hugqhyxxljqhnghuhpfusjqhzuchuohentkhEj
puzhpejheuqhijjghfscngbk

“Nhuthrjschbsuoja yhaxshcx shfxganqjgfjhnghtjk”hEjhsjmjuojqhbjgoychng
S ppnughoejhmesupjhejheuqhpunqhnghIjopc’phmsjpjgfjhnghAsjgfe,hugqhpuo
qxzghijpnqjhejskhZejghejhpmxljhoxhejshnghS ppnug,h pngbhoejhS ppnug
“oex ”hxahngontufchugqhuaajfonxg,hnohzuphngp aajsuiychnssnouongbhox
Uggukh“UgqhNhuthrjschbsuoja yhaxshcx shqjfnpnxgkhN,hoxx,hntubngjhoeuo
pngfjhejhnphbxngbhuzuc,hoejsjhnphgxhpxsohxahgjfjppnochaxshFx gohRsxgplc
oxhfxtjhejsjkhExzjrjs,hnakkkk”

“I ohN’rjhpunqhpxhuysjuqc,hpxhzechsjmjuohno?”hUgguhp qqjgychngojss mojq
enthznoehughnssnouonxghpejhfx yqhgxohp ffjjqhnghsjmsjppngbkh“Gxhpxsohxa
gjfjppnoc,”hpejhoex beo,h“axshuhtughoxhfxtjhugqhpuchbxxq-icjhoxhoej
zxtughejhyxrjp,haxshzexthejhzuphsjuqchoxhs nghentpjya,hugqheuphs ngjq
entpjya,hugqhzexhfuggxohynrjhznoex ohentkhGxhpxsohxahgjfjppnoc!”hpej
fxtmsjppjqhejshynmp,hugqhqsxmmjqhejshi sgngbhjcjphoxhenpheugqphznoe
oejnshpzxyyjghrjngpkhOejchzjsjhs iingbhjufehxoejsk

“Yjoh phgjrjshpmjulhxahno,”hpejhuqqjqhtxsjhfuytyck

“Nheurjhyjaohoenphw jponxghoxhcx hoxhqjfnqj,hugqhNhuthrjschbyuqhox
pjjkkkk”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphijbnggngbk

“Oeuohtchznpehfxngfnqjphznoehcx shxzg,”hpejhangnpejqhw nflyc,
jvupmjsuojqhuohenphouylngbhpxhpyxzychzenyjhpejhlgjzhijaxsjeugqhuyyhej
zx yqhpuck

“Cjp,”hejhuppjgojq;h“ugqhMsngfjpphOrjsplucu’phngojsajsjgfjhnghoejhtxpo
qnaanf yohmsnruojhuaaunsphnph oojsych gfuyyjqhaxskhPejhjpmjfnuyyckkkk”

“Nhqxg’ohijynjrjhuhzxsqhxahzeuo’phpunqhuix ohejs,”hpunqhUgguhw nflyck
“Nhlgxzhpejhsjuyychfusjphaxshtjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpnbejqhugqhpunqhgxoengbkhPejhmyucjqhgjsrx pyc
znoehoejhouppjyhxahejshqsjppngb-bxzg,hbyugfngbhuohenthznoehoeuo
oxso sngbhpjgpuonxghxahmecpnfuyhsjm ypnxghaxshzenfehpejhiyutjqhejspjya,
oex behpejhfx yqhgxohfxgosxyhnokhEjshxgychqjpnsjhgxzhzuphoxhijhsnqhxa
enphxmmsjppnrjhmsjpjgfjk

“Nheurjh. pohpjgohaxshoejhqxfoxs,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Nhuthrjschzjyy;hzeuohqxhNhzugohoejhqxfoxshaxs?”

“Gx,hoejhynooyjhxgjhfsnjp,hugqhoejchpuchoejhg spjheupg’ohjgx behtnylk”

“Zechqnqg’ohcx hyjohtjhg spjhejs,hzejghNhijbbjqhox?hUgczuc”h(Uyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehlgjzhzeuohzuphtjugohichoeuoh“ugczuc”),h“pej’phuhiuic,
ugqhoejc’sjhlnyyngbhejsk”hPejhsugbhoejhijyyhugqhxsqjsjqhoejhiuichoxhij
isx beohejskh“Nhijbbjqhoxhg spjhejs,hNhzupg’ohuyyxzjqhox,hugqhgxzhN’t
iyutjqhaxshnok”

“Nhqxg’ohiyutjkkkk”

“Cjp,hcx hqxhiyutjhtj!hTchBxq!hzechqnqg’ohNhqnj!”hUgqhpejhisxljhngox
pxipkh“Axsbnrjhtj,hN’thgjsrx p,hN’th g. po,”hpejhpunq,hfxgosxyyngb
ejspjya,h“i ohqxhbxhuzuckkkk”

“Gx,hnohfug’ohbxhxghynljhoenp,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya
qjfnqjqychuphejhyjaohenphznaj’phsxxtk

Gjrjsheuqhoejhntmxppninynochxahenphmxpnonxghnghoejhzxsyq’phjcjp,hugq
enphznaj’pheuosjqhxahent,hugqhuyoxbjoejshoejhtnbeohxahoeuohtcpojsnx p
is ouyhaxsfjhoeuohb nqjqhenphynajhubungpohenphpmnsno uyhngfynguonxgp,
ugqhjvufojqhfxgaxstnochznoehnophqjfsjjphugqhfeugbjhnghenphuoono qjhox
enphznaj,hijjghmsjpjgojqhoxhenthznoehp fehqnpongfogjpphuphoeuohquckhEj
puzhfyjusychoeuohuyyhoejhzxsyqhugqhenphznajhjvmjfojqhxahenthpxtjoengb,
i ohzeuohjvufoyc,hejhfx yqhgxohtuljhx okhEjhajyohoeuohoenphzuphsx pngb
nghenphpx yhuhajjyngbhxahugbjshqjpos fonrjhxahenphmjufjhxahtngqhugqhxa
uyyhoejhbxxqhxahenphufenjrjtjgokhEjhijynjrjqhoeuohaxshUgguhejspjyahno
zx yqhijhijoojshoxhisjulhxaahuyyhsjyuonxgphznoehRsxgplc;hi ohnahoejc
uyyhoex beohoenphx ohxahoejhw jponxg,hejhzuphjrjghsjuqchoxhuyyxzhoejpj
sjyuonxgphoxhijhsjgjzjq,hpxhyxgbhuphoejhfenyqsjghzjsjhgxohqnpbsufjq,
ugqhejhzuphgxohqjmsnrjqhxahoejthgxshaxsfjqhoxhfeugbjhenphmxpnonxgkhIuq
uphoenphtnbeohij,hnohzuphugczuchijoojshoeughuhs mo sj,hzenfehzx yqhm o
ejshnghuhexmjyjpphugqhpeutja yhmxpnonxg,hugqhqjmsnrjhenthxahjrjscoengb
ejhfusjqhaxskhI ohejhajyohejymyjpp;hejhlgjzhijaxsjeugqhoeuohjrjscxgj
zuphubungpohent,hugqhoeuohejhzx yqhgxohijhuyyxzjqhoxhqxhzeuohpjjtjqhox
enthgxzhpxhguo suyhugqhsnbeo,hi ohzx yqhijhaxsfjqhoxhqxhzeuohzuphzsxgb,
oex behnohpjjtjqhoejhmsxmjshoengbhoxhoejtk


Feumojsh21

IjaxsjhIjopcheuqhontjhoxhzuylhx ohxahoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hpejhzuphtjohng
oejhqxxszuchichPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexheuqh. pohfxtjhasxthCjynpjjr’p,
zejsjhuhfxgpnbgtjgohxahasjpehxcpojspheuqhijjghsjfjnrjqk

“Ue!hmsngfjpp!hzeuohuhqjynbeoa yhtjjongb!”hejhijbugkh“N’rjhijjghoxhpjj
cx k”

“Uhtjjongbhaxshxgjhtng oj,haxshN’thbxngb,”hpunqhIjopc,hptnyngbhugq
m oongbhxghejshbyxrjk

“Qxg’ohm ohxghcx shbyxrjhcjo,hmsngfjpp;hyjohtjhlnpphcx sheugqkhOejsj’p
gxoengbhN’thpxhoeugla yhoxhoejhsjrnruyhxahoejhxyqhaupenxgphaxshuphoej
lnppngbhoejheugqk”hEjhlnppjqhIjopc’pheugqkh“Zejghpeuyyhzjhpjjhjufe
xoejs?”

“Cx hqxg’ohqjpjsrjhno,”hugpzjsjqhIjopc,hptnyngbk

“Xe,hcjp,hNhqjpjsrjhuhbsjuohqjuy,haxshN’rjhijfxtjhuhtxpohpjsnx p
mjspxgkhNhqxg’ohxgychtugubjhtchxzghuaaunsp,hi ohxoejshmjxmyj’phoxx,”hej
punq,hznoehuhpnbgnanfugohjvmsjppnxgk

“Xe,hN’thpxhbyuq!”hugpzjsjqhIjopc,huohxgfjh gqjspougqngbhoeuohejhzup
pmjulngbhxahUggukhUgqhbxngbhiuflhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hoejchpoxxqhnghu
fxsgjskh“Ej’phlnyyngbhejs,”hpunqhIjopchnghuhzenpmjsha yyhxahtjugngbk
“No’phntmxppniyj,hntmxppniyjkkkk”

“N’thpxhbyuqhcx hoenglhpx,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hpeulngbhenphejuq
znoehuhpjsnx phugqhpctmuoejonfuyychqnposjppjqhjvmsjppnxg,h“oeuo’phzeuo
N’rjhfxtjhoxhMjojspi sbhaxsk”

“Oejhzexyjhoxzg’phouylngbhxahno,”hpejhpunqkh“No’phughntmxppniyj
mxpnonxgkhPejhmngjphugqhmngjphuzuckhEjhqxjpg’oh gqjspougqhoeuohpej’p
xgjhxahoexpjhzxtjghzexhfug’ohosnayjhznoehoejnshajjyngbpkhXgjhxahozx
oengbp:hjnoejshyjohenthouljhejshuzuc,hufohznoehjgjsbc,hxshbnrjhejshu
qnrxsfjkhOenphnphponayngbhejsk”

“Cjp,hcjphkkkh. pohpxkkkk”hXiyxgplchpunq,hpnbengbkh“Oeuo’phzeuohN’rj
fxtjhaxskhUohyjupohgxohpxyjychaxshoeuohkkkhN’rjhijjghtuqjhu
_Luttjsejss_;hxahfx spj,hxgjheuphoxhpuchoeuglhcx khI ohoejhfenjahoengb
zupheurngbhoxhpjooyjhoenpk”

“Zjyy,hBxqhejymhcx !”hpunqhIjopck

UaojshuffxtmugcngbhIjopchoxhoejhx opnqjheuyy,hxgfjhtxsjhlnppngbhejs
eugqhuixrjhoejhbyxrj,huohoejhmxngohzejsjhoejhm ypjhijuop,hugqht st sngb
oxhejshp feh gpjjtychgxgpjgpjhoeuohpejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshoxhyu behxs
ijhugbsc,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohoxhenphpnpojskhEjhax gqhejshng
ojuspk

Uyoex behejheummjgjqhoxhijhi iiyngbhxrjshznoehbxxqhpmnsnop,hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehnttjqnuojychugqhw nojhguo suyychajyyhngoxhoejhpctmuoejonf,
mxjonfuyychjtxonxguyhoxgjhzenfeheustxgndjqhznoehejshtxxqkhEjhupljqhejs
exzhpejhzup,hugqhexzhpejheuqhpmjgohoejhtxsgngbk

“Rjsc,hrjschtnpjsuiyckhOxquchugqhoenphtxsgngbhugqhuyyhmupohqucphugq
qucphoxhfxtj,”hpejhpunqk

“Nhoenglhcx ’sjhbnrngbhzuchoxhmjppntnptkhCx ht pohsx pjhcx spjya,hcx 
t pohyxxlhynajhnghoejhaufjkhNhlgxzhno’pheusq,hi okkkk”

“Nheurjhejusqhnohpunqhoeuohzxtjghyxrjhtjghjrjghaxshoejnshrnfjp,”hUggu
ijbughp qqjgyc,h“i ohNheuojhenthaxshenphrnso jpkhNhfug’ohynrjhznoehentk
Qxhcx h gqjspougq?hoejhpnbeohxahentheuphuhmecpnfuyhjaajfohxghtj,hno
tuljphtjhijpnqjhtcpjyakhNhfug’o,hNhfug’ohynrjhznoehentkhZeuohuthNhox
qx?hNheurjhijjgh geummc,hugqh pjqhoxhoenglhxgjhfx yqg’ohijhtxsj
 geummc,hi ohoejhuza yhpouojhxahoengbphNhuthbxngbhoesx behgxz,hNhfx yq
gjrjsheurjhfxgfjnrjqkhZx yqhcx hijynjrjhno,hoeuohlgxzngbhej’phuhbxxq
tug,huhpmyjgqnqhtug,hoeuohN’thgxohzxsoehenphynooyjhangbjs,hponyyhNheuoj
entkhNheuojhenthaxshenphbjgjsxpnockhUgqhoejsj’phgxoengbhyjaohaxshtj
i okkkk”

Pejhzx yqheurjhpunqhqjuoe,hi ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzx yqhgxohyjohejs
angnpek

“Cx husjhnyyhugqhxrjszsx beo,”hejhpunq;h“ijynjrjhtj,hcx ’sj
jvubbjsuongbhqsjuqa yyckhOejsj’phgxoengbhpxhojssniyjhnghnok”

UgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehptnyjqkhGxhxgjhjypjhnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’p
myufj,heurngbhoxhqxhznoehp fehqjpmuns,hzx yqheurjhrjgo sjqhoxhptnyj
(oejhptnyjhzx yqheurjhpjjtjqhis ouy);hi ohnghenphptnyjhoejsjhzuphpx
t fehxahpzjjogjpphugqhuytxpohajtngngjhojgqjsgjpphoeuohenphptnyjhqnqhgxo
zx gq,hi ohpxaojgjqhugqhpxxoejqkhEnphbjgoyj,hpxxoengbhzxsqphugqhptnyjp
zjsjhuphpxxoengbhugqhpxaojgngbhuphuytxgqhxnykhUgqhUgguhpxxghajyohoenpk

“Gx,hPonru,”hpejhpunq,h“N’thyxpo,hyxpo!hzxspjhoeughyxpo!hNhfug’ohpuc
cjohoeuohuyyhnphxrjs;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hNhajjyhoeuohno’phgxohxrjskhN’t
ughxrjsposungjqhposngbhoeuoht pohpgumkhI ohno’phgxohjgqjqhcjohkkkhugq
nohznyyheurjhuhajusa yhjgqk”

“Gxhtuoojs,hzjht pohyjohoejhposngbhijhyxxpjgjq,hynooyjhichynooyjk
Oejsj’phgxhmxpnonxghasxthzenfehoejsjhnphgxhzuchxahjpfumjk”

“Nheurjhoex beo,hugqhoex beokhXgychxgjkkkk”

Ubunghejhlgjzhasxthejshojssnanjqhjcjphoeuohoenphxgjhzuchxahjpfumjhng
ejshoex beohzuphqjuoe,hugqhejhzx yqhgxohyjohejshpuchnok

“Gxohuohuyy,”hejhpunqkh“YnpojghoxhtjkhCx hfug’ohpjjhcx shxzghmxpnonxg
uphNhfugkhYjohtjhojyyhcx hfugqnqychtchxmngnxgk”hUbunghejhptnyjq
qnpfsjjoychenphuytxgq-xnyhptnyjkh“N’yyhijbnghasxthoejhijbnggngbkhCx 
tussnjqhuhtughozjgochcjusphxyqjshoeughcx spjyakhCx htussnjqhenthznoex o
yxrjhugqhgxohlgxzngbhzeuohyxrjhzupkhNohzuphuhtnpoulj,hyjo’phuqtnok”

“Uhajusa yhtnpoulj!”hpunqhUgguk

“I ohNhsjmjuo,hno’phughuffxtmynpejqhaufokhOejghcx heuq,hyjoh phpuc,hoej
tnpaxso gjhoxhyxrjhuhtughgxohcx she piugqkhOeuohzuphuhtnpaxso gj;hi o
oeuo,hoxx,hnphughuffxtmynpejqhaufokhUgqhcx she piugqhlgjzhnohugq
axsburjhnok”hEjhpoxmmjqhuohjufehpjgojgfj,hzunongbhaxshejshoxhxi.jfo,
i ohpejhtuqjhgxhugpzjskh“Oeuo’phpxkhGxzhoejhw jponxghnp:hfughcx hbxhxg
ynrngbhznoehcx she piugq?hQxhcx hznpehno?hQxjphejhznpehno?”

“Nhlgxzhgxoengb,hgxoengbk”

“I ohcx hpunqhcx spjyahoeuohcx hfug’ohjgq sjhentk”

“Gx,hNhqnqg’ohpuchpxkhNhqjgchnokhNhfug’ohojyy,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhugcoengb
uix ohnok”

“Cjp,hi ohyjokkkk”

“Cx hfug’oh gqjspougqkhNhajjyhN’thycngbhejuqhqxzgzusqphnghuhpxsohxa
mno,hi ohNhx beohgxohoxhpurjhtcpjyakhUgqhNhfug’okkkk”

“Gjrjshtngq,hzj’yyhpynmhpxtjoengbh gqjshugqhm yyhcx hx okhNh gqjspougq
cx :hNh gqjspougqhoeuohcx hfug’ohouljhnohxghcx spjyahoxhjvmsjpphcx s
znpejp,hcx shajjyngbpk”

“Oejsj’phgxoengb,hgxoengbhNhznpehkkkhjvfjmohaxshnohoxhijhuyyhxrjsk”

“I ohejhpjjphoenphugqhlgxzphnokhUgqhqxhcx hp mmxpjhnohzjnbephxghenthugc
yjpphoeughxghcx ?hCx ’sjhzsjofejq,hej’phzsjofejq,hugqhzeuohbxxqhfug
fxtjhxahno?hzenyjhqnrxsfjhzx yqhpxyrjhoejhqnaanf yochfxtmyjojyck”hZnoe
pxtjhjaaxsohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehisx beohx ohenphfjgosuyhnqju,hugq
yxxljqhpnbgnanfugoychuohejsk

Pejhpunqhgxoengb,hugqhpexxlhejshfsxmmjqhejuqhnghqnppjgokhI ohasxthoej
yxxlhnghejshaufj,hoeuohp qqjgychisnbeojgjqhngoxhnophxyqhiju oc,hejhpuz
oeuohnahpejhqnqhgxohqjpnsjhoenp,hnohzuphpntmychijfu pjhnohpjjtjqhoxhejs
 guoounguiyjheummngjppk

“N’thuza yychpxsschaxshcx !hUgqhexzheummchNhpex yqhijhnahNhfx yq
ussugbjhoengbp!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbhtxsjhixyqyckh“Qxg’o
pmjul,hqxg’ohpuchuhzxsq!hBxqhbsugohxgychoeuohNhtuchpmjulhuphNhajjykhN’t
bxngbhoxhentk”

Ugguhyxxljqhuohenthznoehqsjutc,hpengngbhjcjp,hugqhpunqhgxoengbk


Feumojsh22

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehoejhputjhpxtjzeuohpxyjtghjvmsjppnxghznoe
zenfehejh pjqhoxhouljhenphmsjpnqjgonuyhfeunshuohenphixusq,hzuyljqhngox
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phsxxtkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphzuylngbhuix o
enphsxxthznoehenpheugqphijengqhenphiufl,hoenglngbhxah. pohzeuohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofeheuqhijjghqnpf ppngbhznoehenphznajk

“N’thgxohngojss mongbhcx ?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hxghoejhpnbeohxa
enphisxoejs-ng-yuzhijfxtngbhp qqjgychuzusjhxahuhpjgpjhxahjtiussupptjgo
 g p uyhznoehentkhOxhfxgfjuyhoenphjtiussupptjgohejhoxxlhx ohuhfnbusjooj
fupjhejheuqh. pohix beohoeuohxmjgjqhnghuhgjzhzuc,hugqhpgnaangbhoej
yjuoejs,hoxxlhuhfnbusjoojhx ohxahnok

“GxkhQxhcx hzugohugcoengb?”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehupljqhznoex o
jubjsgjppk

“Cjp,hNhznpejqhkkkhNhzugojqhkkkhcjp,hNhzugojqhoxhouylhoxhcx ,”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehp smsnpjhuzusjhxahugh guff poxtjqhontnqnock

Oenphajjyngbhzuphpxh gjvmjfojqhugqhpxhposugbjhoeuohejhqnqhgxohijynjrj
nohzuphoejhrxnfjhxahfxgpfnjgfjhojyyngbhenthoeuohzeuohejhzuphtjugngbhox
qxhzuphzsxgbk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehtuqjhughjaaxsohugqhpos bbyjqhznoehoejhontnqnochoeuo
euqhfxtjhxrjshentk

“Nhexmjhcx hijynjrjhnghtchyxrjhaxshtchpnpojshugqhtchpngfjsjhuaajfonxg
ugqhsjpmjfohaxshcx ,”hejhpunq,hsjqqjgngbk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpoxxqhponyyhugqhpunqhgxoengb,hi ohenphaufjhpos fl
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehichnophjvmsjppnxghxahugh gsjpnpongbhpufsnanfjk

“NhngojgqjqhkkkhNhzugojqhoxheurjhuhynooyjhouylhznoehcx huix ohtchpnpojs
ugqhcx sht o uyhmxpnonxg,”hejhpunq,hponyyhpos bbyngbhznoehug
 guff poxtjqhfxgposungok

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjqhtx sga yyc,hyxxljqhuohenphisxoejs-ng-yuz,
ugqhznoex ohugpzjsngbhzjgoh mhoxhoejhouiyj,hoxxlhasxthnohugh gangnpejq
yjoojs,hugqheugqjqhnohoxhenphisxoejs-ng-yuzk

“Nhoenglh gfjupngbychxahoejhputjhoengbkhUgqhejsjhnphzeuohNheuqhijb g
zsnongb,hoenglngbhNhfx yqhpuchnohijoojshichyjoojs,hugqhoeuohtchmsjpjgfj
nssnouojphejs,”hejhpunq,huphejhburjhenthoejhyjoojsk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhoejhyjoojs,hyxxljqhznoehngfsjq yx php smsnpj
uohoejhy pojsyjpphjcjphanvjqhpxhnttxruiychxghent,hugqhijbughoxhsjuqk

“Nhpjjhoeuohtchmsjpjgfjhnphnslpxtjhoxhcx khMunga yhuphnohnphoxhtjhox
ijynjrjhno,hNhpjjhoeuohnohnphpx,hugqhfuggxohijhxoejsznpjkhNhqxg’ohiyutj
cx ,hugqhBxqhnphtchznogjpphoeuohxghpjjngbhcx huohoejhontjhxahcx s
nyygjpphNhsjpxyrjqhznoehtchzexyjhejusohoxhaxsbjohuyyhoeuoheuqhmuppjq
ijozjjgh phugqhoxhijbnghuhgjzhynajkhNhqxhgxohsjbsjo,hugqhpeuyyhgjrjs
sjbsjo,hzeuohNheurjhqxgj;hi ohNheurjhqjpnsjqhxgjhoengb—cx shbxxq,hoej
bxxqhxahcx shpx y—ugqhgxzhNhpjjhNheurjhgxohuooungjqhoeuokhOjyyhtj
cx spjyahzeuohznyyhbnrjhcx hos jheummngjpphugqhmjufjhoxhcx shpx ykhN
m ohtcpjyahjgonsjychnghcx sheugqp,hugqhos pohoxhcx shajjyngbhxahzeuo’p
snbeok”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofeheugqjqhiuflhoejhyjoojs,hugqhznoehoejhputjhp smsnpj
fxgong jqhyxxlngbhuohenphisxoejs-ng-yuz,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhpuckhOenp
pnyjgfjhzuphpxhuzlzusqhaxshixoehxahoejthoeuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phynmp
ijbughoznofengbhgjsrx pyc,hzenyjhejhponyyhbudjqhznoex ohpmjulngbhuo
Lusjgng’phaufjk

“Oeuo’phzeuohNhzugojqhoxhpuchoxhejs,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
o sgngbhuzuck

“Cjp,hcjpkkkk”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hgxohuiyjhoxhugpzjshaxshoej
ojusphoeuohzjsjhfexlngbhentk

“Cjp,hcjp,hNh gqjspougqhcx ,”hejhisx beohx ohuohyupok

“Nhzugohoxhlgxzhzeuohpejhzx yqhynlj,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Nhuthuasunqhpejhqxjphgxoh gqjspougqhejshxzghmxpnonxgkhPejhnphgxohu
. qbj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hsjfxrjsngbhentpjyakh“Pejhnphfs pejq,
pntmychfs pejqhichcx shbjgjsxpnockhNahpejhzjsjhoxhsjuqhoenphyjoojs,hpej
zx yqhijhngfumuiyjhxahpucngbhugcoengb,hpejhzx yqhxgycheugbhejshejuq
yxzjshoeughjrjsk”

“Cjp,hi ohzeuo’phoxhijhqxgjhnghoeuohfupj?hexzhjvmyung,hexzhangqhx ohejs
znpejp?”

“Nahcx hznyyhuyyxzhtjhoxhbnrjhtchxmngnxg,hNhoenglhoeuohnohynjphznoehcx 
oxhmxngohx ohqnsjfoychoejhpojmphcx hfxgpnqjshgjfjppuschoxhjgqhoej
mxpnonxgk”

“Pxhcx hfxgpnqjshnoht pohijhjgqjq?”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehngojss mojq
entkh“I ohexz?”hejhuqqjq,hznoehuhbjpo sjhxahenpheugqphijaxsjhenphjcjp
gxoh p uyhznoehentkh“Nhpjjhgxhmxppniyjhzuchx ohxahnok”

“Oejsjhnphpxtjhzuchxahbjoongbhx ohxahjrjschmxpnonxg,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hpougqngbh mhugqhijfxtngbhtxsjhfejjsa ykh“Oejsjhzuphuhontj
zejghcx hoex beohxahisjulngbhxaakkkkhNahcx husjhfxgrngfjqhgxzhoeuohcx 
fuggxohtuljhjufehxoejsheummckkkk”

“Eummngjpphtuchijhrusnx pych gqjspoxxqkhI ohp mmxpjhoeuohNhubsjjhox
jrjscoengb,hoeuohNhzugohgxoengb:hzeuohzuchnphoejsjhxahbjoongbhx ohxa
x shmxpnonxg?”

“Nahcx hfusjhoxhlgxzhtchxmngnxg,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehoej
putjhptnyjhxahpxaojgngb,huytxgq-xnyhojgqjsgjpphznoehzenfehejheuqhijjg
ouylngbhoxhUggukhEnphlngqychptnyjhzuphpxhznggngbhoeuohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hajjyngbhenphxzghzjulgjpphugqh gfxgpfnx pychpzucjqhic
no,hzuphsjuqchoxhijynjrjhzeuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphpucngbk

“Pejhznyyhgjrjshpmjulhx ohuix ohnokhI ohxgjhoengbhnphmxppniyj,hxgj
oengbhpejhtnbeohqjpnsj,”hejhzjgohxg,h“oeuohnphoejhfjppuonxghxahcx s
sjyuonxgphugqhuyyhtjtxsnjphuppxfnuojqhznoehoejtkhOxhtchoenglngb,hng
cx shmxpnonxghzeuo’phjppjgonuyhnphoejhaxstuonxghxahuhgjzhuoono qjhox
xgjhugxoejskhUgqhoeuohfughxgychsjpohxghuhiupnphxahasjjqxthxghixoe
pnqjpk”

“Qnrxsfj,”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehngojss mojq,hnghuhoxgjhxahurjspnxgk

“Cjp,hNhntubngjhoeuohqnrxsfj—cjp,hqnrxsfj,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
sjmjuojq,hsjqqjgngbkh“Oeuohnphasxthjrjschmxngohxahrnjzhoejhtxpo
suonxguyhfx spjhaxshtussnjqhmjxmyjhzexhangqhoejtpjyrjphnghoejhmxpnonxg
cx husjhngkhZeuohfughijhqxgjhnahtussnjqhmjxmyjhangqhoeuohynajhnp
ntmxppniyjhaxshoejthoxbjoejs?hOeuohtuchuyzucpheummjgk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpnbejqhejurnychugqhfyxpjqhenphjcjpk

“Oejsj’phxgychxgjhmxngohoxhijhfxgpnqjsjq:hnphjnoejshxahoejhmusonjp
qjpnsx phxahaxstngbhgjzhonjp?hNahgxo,hnohnphrjschpntmyj,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hajjyngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhasjjhasxthfxgposungok

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpfxzyngbhznoehjtxonxg,ht oojsjqhpxtjoengbhox
entpjya,hugqhtuqjhgxhugpzjskhUyyhoeuohpjjtjqhpxhpntmyjhoxhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhoex beohxrjshoex pugqphxa
ontjpkhUgq,hpxhaushasxthijngbhpntmyj,hnohuyyhpjjtjqhoxhenth oojsyc
ntmxppniyjkhQnrxsfj,hoejhqjounyphxahzenfehejhlgjzhichoenphontj,hpjjtjq
oxhenthgxzhx ohxahoejhw jponxg,hijfu pjhoejhpjgpjhxahenphxzghqnbgnoc
ugqhsjpmjfohaxshsjynbnxghaxsiuqjhenphoulngbh mxghentpjyahuhanfononx p
feusbjhxahuq yojsc,hugqhponyyhtxsjhp aajsngbhenphznaj,hmusqxgjqhugq
ijyxrjqhichent,hoxhijhfu beohnghoejhaufohugqhm ohoxhm iynfhpeutjk
Qnrxsfjhummjusjqhoxhenthntmxppniyjhuypxhxghxoejshponyyhtxsjhzjnbeoc
bsx gqpk

Zeuohzx yqhijfxtjhxahenphpxghnghfupjhxahuhqnrxsfj?hOxhyjurjhenthznoe
enphtxoejshzuphx ohxahoejhw jponxgkhOejhqnrxsfjqhtxoejshzx yqheurjhejs
xzghnyyjbnontuojhautnyc,hnghzenfehenphmxpnonxghuphuhpojmpxghugqhenp
jq fuonxghzx yqhgxohijhbxxqkhLjjmhenthznoehent?hEjhlgjzhoeuohzx yqhij
ughufohxahrjgbjugfjhxghenphmuso,hugqhoeuohejhqnqhgxohzugokhI ohumuso
asxthoenp,hzeuohtxsjhoeughuyyhtuqjhqnrxsfjhpjjthntmxppniyjhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzup,hoeuohichfxgpjgongbhoxhuhqnrxsfjhejhzx yqhij
fxtmyjojychs ngngbhUggukhOejhpucngbhxahQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhuohTxpfxz,
oeuohnghqjfnqngbhxghuhqnrxsfjhejhzuphoenglngbhxahentpjya,hugqhgxo
fxgpnqjsngbhoeuohichoenphejhzx yqhijhs ngngbhejshnssjrxfuiyc,heuqhp gl
ngoxhenphejusokhUgqhfxggjfongbhoenphpucngbhznoehenphaxsbnrjgjpphxahejs,
znoehenphqjrxonxghoxhoejhfenyqsjg,hejh gqjspoxxqhnohgxzhnghenphxzghzuck
Oxhfxgpjgohoxhuhqnrxsfj,hoxhbnrjhejshejshasjjqxt,htjugohnghenphoex beop
oxhouljhasxthentpjyahoejhyupohonjhoeuohix gqhenthoxhynaj—oejhfenyqsjg
zexthejhyxrjq;hugqhoxhouljhasxthejshoejhyupohmsxmhoeuohpoucjqhejshxg
oejhmuoehxahsnbeo,hoxhoes pohejshqxzghoxhejshs ngkhNahpejhzjsj
qnrxsfjq,hejhlgjzhpejhzx yqh.xnghejshynajhoxhRsxgplc’p,hugqhoejnshonj
zx yqhijhughnyyjbnontuojhugqhfsntnguyhxgj,hpngfjhuhznaj,hichoej
ngojsmsjouonxghxahoejhjffyjpnuponfuyhyuz,hfx yqhgxohtusschzenyjhejs
e piugqhzuphynrngbkh“Pejhznyyh.xnghent,hugqhnghuhcjushxshozxhejhznyy
oesxzhejshxrjs,hxshpejhznyyhaxsthuhgjzhonj,”hoex beohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofekh“UgqhN,hichubsjjngbhoxhugh gyuza yhqnrxsfj,hpeuyyhijhox
iyutjhaxshejshs ngk”hEjheuqhoex beohnohuyyhxrjshe gqsjqphxahontjp,hugq
zuphfxgrngfjqhoeuohuhqnrxsfjhzuphgxohuohuyyhpntmyj,huphPojmug
Usluqcjrnofeheuqhpunq,hi ohzuph oojsychntmxppniyjkhEjhqnqhgxohijynjrjhu
pngbyjhzxsqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhent;hoxhjrjschzxsqhejheuqhu
oex pugqhxi.jfonxgphoxhtulj,hi ohejhynpojgjqhoxhent,hajjyngbhoeuohenp
zxsqphzjsjhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahoeuohtnbeochis ouyhaxsfjhzenfehfxgosxyyjq
enphynajhugqhoxhzenfehejhzx yqheurjhoxhp itnok

“Oejhxgychw jponxghnphxghzeuohojstphcx hubsjjhoxhbnrjhejshuhqnrxsfjk
Pejhqxjphgxohzugohugcoengb,hqxjphgxohqusjhuplhcx haxshugcoengb,hpej
yjurjphnohuyyhoxhcx shbjgjsxpnock”

“TchBxq,htchBxq!hzeuohaxs?”hoex beohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hsjtjtijsngb
oejhqjounyphxahqnrxsfjhmsxfjjqngbphnghzenfehoejhe piugqhoxxlhoejhiyutj
xghentpjya,hugqhznoeh. pohoejhputjhbjpo sjhznoehzenfehRsxgplcheuqhqxgj
oejhputj,hejhenqhenphaufjhaxshpeutjhnghenpheugqpk

“Cx husjhqnposjppjq,hNh gqjspougqhoeuokhI ohnahcx hoenglhnohxrjskkkk”

“Zexpxjrjshpeuyyhptnojhoejjhxghoechsnbeohfejjl,ho sghoxhenthoejhxoejs
uypx;hugqhnahugchtughouljhuzuchoechfxuo,hyjohentheurjhoechfyxulhuypx,”
oex beohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Cjp,hcjp!”hejhfsnjqhnghuhpesnyyhrxnfjkh“Nhznyyhouljhoejhqnpbsufjhxg
tcpjya,hNhznyyhbnrjh mhjrjghtchpxg,hi ohkkkhi ohzx yqg’ohnohijhijoojs
oxhyjohnohuyxgj?hPonyyhcx htuchqxhuphcx hynljkkkk”

Ugqho sgngbhuzuchpxhoeuohenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhfx yqhgxohpjjhent,hejhpuo
qxzghxghuhfeunshuohoejhzngqxzkhOejsjhzuphinoojsgjpp,hoejsjhzuphpeutjhng
enphejuso,hi ohznoehinoojsgjpphugqhpeutjhejhajyoh.xchugqhjtxonxghuohoej
ejnbeohxahenphxzghtjjlgjppk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphox fejqkhEjhzuphpnyjgohaxshuhpmufjk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hijynjrjhtj,hpejhummsjfnuojphcx shbjgjsxpnoc,”
ejhpunqkh“I ohnohpjjtphnohzuphoejhznyyhxahBxq,”hejhuqqjq,hugqhuphej
punqhnohajyohexzhaxxynpehuhsjtuslhnohzup,hugqhznoehqnaanf yochsjmsjppjq
uhptnyjhuohenphxzghaxxynpegjppk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzx yqheurjhtuqjhpxtjhsjmyc,hi ohojusphpoxmmjq
entk

“Oenphnphugh geummchauouynoc,hugqhxgjht pohuffjmohnohuphp fekhNhuffjmo
oejhfuyutnochuphughuffxtmynpejqhaufo,hugqhuthqxngbhtchijpohoxhejymhixoe
ejshugqhcx ,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

Zejghejhzjgohx ohxahenphisxoejs-ng-yuz’phsxxthejhzuphox fejq,hi ohoeuo
qnqhgxohmsjrjgohenthasxthijngbhbyuqhejheuqhp ffjppa yychisx beohoej
tuoojshoxhuhfxgfy pnxg,haxshejhajyohfjsounghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzx yq
gxohbxhiuflhxghenphzxsqpkhOxhoenphpuonpaufonxghzuphuqqjqhoejhaufohoeuo
ughnqjuheuqh. pohpos flhenthaxshuhsnqqyjho sgngbhxghenphp ffjppa y
ufenjrjtjgo,hoeuohzejghoejhuaaunshzuphxrjshejhzx yqhuplhenphznajhugq
txpohngontuojhasnjgqpkhEjhm ohoenphsnqqyjhngoxhozxhxshoesjjhqnaajsjgo
zucpkh“I ohN’yyhzxslhnohx ohijoojshoeughoeuo,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahznoe
uhptnyjk


Feumojsh23

Rsxgplc’phzx gqheuqhijjghuhqugbjsx phxgj,hoex behnohqnqhgxohox fehoej
ejuso,hugqhaxshpjrjsuyhqucphejheuqhyunghijozjjghynajhugqhqjuoekhOej
anspohontjhejhzuphuiyjhoxhpmjul,hRuscu,henphisxoejs’phznaj,hzuphuyxgj
nghoejhsxxtk

“Ruscu,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhpojsgychuohejs,h“Nhpexohtcpjyahichuffnqjgok
Ugqhmyjupjhgjrjshpmjulhxahno,hugqhojyyhjrjscxgjhpxkhXshjypjhno’phoxx
snqnf yx pk”

Znoex ohugpzjsngbhenphzxsqp,hRuscuhijgohxrjshent,hugqhznoehuhqjynbeojq
ptnyjhbudjqhngoxhenphaufjkhEnphjcjphzjsjhfyjus,hgxohajrjsnpe;hi ohoejns
jvmsjppnxghzuphpojsgk

“OeuglhBxq!”hpejhpunqkh“Cx ’sjhgxohnghmung?”

“Uhynooyjhejsjk”hEjhmxngojqhoxhenphisjupok

“Oejghyjohtjhfeugbjhcx shiugqubjpk”

Nghpnyjgfj,hponaajgngbhenphisxuqh.uzp,hejhyxxljqhuohejshzenyjhpej
iugqubjqhenth mkhZejghpejheuqhangnpejqhejhpunq:

“N’thgxohqjynsnx pkhMyjupjhtugubjhoeuohoejsjhtuchijhgxhouylhxahtc
eurngbhpexohtcpjyahxghm smxpjk”

“GxhxgjhqxjphpuchpxkhXgychNhexmjhcx hzxg’ohpexxohcx spjyahichuffnqjgo
ugchtxsj,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhw jponxgngbhptnyjk

“Xahfx spjhNhzxg’o,hi ohnohzx yqheurjhijjghijoojskkkk”

Ugqhejhptnyjqhbyxxtnyck

Nghpmnojhxahoejpjhzxsqphugqhoenphptnyj,hzenfehpxhasnbeojgjqhRuscu,hzejg
oejhngayuttuonxghzuphxrjshugqhejhijbughoxhsjfxrjs,hejhajyohoeuohejhzup
fxtmyjojychasjjhasxthxgjhmusohxahenphtnpjsckhIchenphufonxghejheuq,hup
nohzjsj,hzupejqhuzuchoejhpeutjhugqhe tnynuonxghejheuqhajyohijaxsjkhEj
fx yqhgxzhoenglhfuytychxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhEjhsjfxbgndjqhuyyhenp
tubgugntnoc,hi ohejhqnqhgxohgxzhajjyhentpjyahe tnynuojqhichnokhIjpnqjp,
ejhbxohiuflhubunghngoxhoejhijuojghosuflhxahenphynajkhEjhpuzhoej
mxppninynochxahyxxlngbhtjghnghoejhaufjhubunghznoex ohpeutj,hugqhej
fx yqhynrjhnghuffxsqugfjhznoehenphxzgheuinopkhXgjhoengbhejhfx yqhgxo
my flhx ohxahenphejuso,hoex behejhgjrjshfjupjqhpos bbyngbhznoehno,hzup
oejhsjbsjo,hutx gongbhoxhqjpmuns,hoeuohejheuqhyxpohejshaxsjrjskhOeuo
gxz,heurngbhjvmnuojqhenphpnghubungpohoejhe piugq,hejhzuphix gqhox
sjgx gfjhejs,hugqhgjrjshngha o sjhoxhpougqhijozjjghejshznoehejs
sjmjgougfjhugqhejshe piugq,hejheuqhanstychqjfnqjqhnghenphejuso;hi ohej
fx yqhgxohojushx ohxahenphejusohenphsjbsjohuohoejhyxpphxahejshyxrj,hej
fx yqhgxohjsupjhasxthenphtjtxschoexpjhtxtjgophxaheummngjpphoeuohejheuq
pxhynooyjhmsndjqhuohoejhontj,hugqhoeuoheu gojqhenthnghuyyhoejnshfeustk

Pjsm exrplxcheuqhmyuggjqhenphummxngotjgohuohOupeljgq,hugqhRsxgplc
ubsjjqhoxhoejhmsxmxpnonxghznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohejpnouonxgkhI ohoej
gjusjshoejhontjhxahqjmuso sjhfutj,hoejhinoojsjshzuphoejhpufsnanfjhej
zuphtulngbhoxhzeuohejhoex beohenphq ock

Enphzx gqheuqhejuyjq,hugqhejhzuphqsnrngbhuix ohtulngbhmsjmusuonxgphaxs
enphqjmuso sjhaxshOupeljgqk

“Oxhpjjhejshxgfjhugqhoejghoxhi schtcpjya,hoxhqnj,”hejhoex beo,hugqhup
ejhzuphmucngbhausjzjyyhrnpnop,hejh oojsjqhoenphoex beohoxhIjopck
Feusbjqhznoehoenphfxttnppnxg,hIjopcheuqhbxgjhoxhUggu,hugqhisx beohent
iuflhuhgjbuonrjhsjmyck

“Pxht fehoejhijoojs,”hoex beohRsxgplc,hzejghejhsjfjnrjqhoejhgjzpkh“No
zuphuhzjulgjpp,hzenfehzx yqheurjhpeuoojsjqhzeuohposjgboehNheurjhyjaok”

GjvohquchIjopchejspjyahfutjhoxhenthnghoejhtxsgngb,hugqhuggx gfjqhoeuo
pejheuqhejusqhoesx behXiyxgplchuphuhmxpnonrjhaufohoeuohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhubsjjqhoxhuhqnrxsfj,hugqhoeuohoejsjaxsjhRsxgplc
fx yqhpjjhUgguk

Znoex ohjrjghosx iyngbhentpjyahoxhpjjhIjopchx ohxahenphayuo,haxsbjoongb
uyyhenphsjpxy onxgp,hznoex ohuplngbhzejghejhfx yqhpjjhejs,hzejsjhejs
e piugqhzup,hRsxgplchqsxrjhposunbeohoxhoejhLusjgngp’khEjhsugh mhoej
pounsphpjjngbhgxhxgjhugqhgxoengb,hugqhznoehuhsumnqhpojm,huytxpo
isjulngbhngoxhuhs g,hejhzjgohngoxhejshsxxtkhUgqhznoex ohfxgpnqjsngb,
znoex ohgxonfngbhzejoejshoejsjhzuphugcxgjhnghoejhsxxthxshgxo,hejhay gb
enphustphsx gqhejs,hugqhijbughoxhfxrjshejshaufj,hejsheugqp,hejshgjfl
znoehlnppjpk

Ugguheuqhijjghmsjmusngbhejspjyahaxshoenphtjjongb,heuqhoex beohzeuohpej
zx yqhpuchoxhent,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohp ffjjqhnghpucngbhugcoengbhxahno;henp
muppnxghtupojsjqhejskhPejhosnjqhoxhfuythent,hoxhfuythejspjya,hi ohno
zuphoxxhyuojkhEnphajjyngbhngajfojqhejskhEjshynmphosjtiyjqhpxhoeuohaxshu
yxgbhzenyjhpejhfx yqhpuchgxoengbk

“Cjp,hcx heurjhfxgw jsjqhtj,hugqhNhuthcx sp,”hpejhpunqhuohyupo,
msjppngbhenpheugqphoxhejshixpxtk

“Pxhnoheuqhoxhij,”hejhpunqkh“Pxhyxgbhuphzjhynrj,hnoht pohijhpxkhNhlgxz
nohgxzk”

“Oeuo’phos j,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbhzenojshugqhzenojs,hugqhjtisufngbhenp
ejuqkh“Ponyyhoejsjhnphpxtjoengbhojssniyjhnghnohuaojshuyyhoeuoheup
eummjgjqk”

“Nohznyyhuyyhmupp,hnohznyyhuyyhmupp;hzjhpeuyyhijhpxheummckhX shyxrj,hna
nohfx yqhijhposxgbjs,hznyyhijhposjgboejgjqhichoejsjhijngbhpxtjoengb
ojssniyjhnghno,”hejhpunq,hynaongbhenphejuqhugqhmusongbhenphposxgbhojjoe
nghuhptnyjk

Ugqhpejhfx yqhgxohi ohsjpmxgqhznoehuhptnyj—gxohoxhenphzxsqp,hi ohoxhoej
yxrjhnghenphjcjpkhPejhoxxlhenpheugqhugqhposxljqhejshfenyyjqhfejjlphugq
fsxmmjqhejuqhznoehnok

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhcx hznoehoenphpexsoheunskhCx ’rjhbsxzghpxhmsjoockhUhixck
I ohexzhmuyjhcx husj!”

“Cjp,hN’thrjschzjul,”hpejhpunq,hptnyngbkhUgqhejshynmphijbughosjtiyngb
ubungk

“Zj’yyhbxhoxhNouyc;hcx hznyyhbjohposxgb,”hejhpunqk

“Fughnohijhmxppniyjhzjhfx yqhijhynljhe piugqhugqhznaj,huyxgj,hcx s
autnychznoehcx ?”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhfyxpjhngoxhenphjcjpk

“Nohxgychpjjtphposugbjhoxhtjhoeuohnohfughjrjsheurjhijjghxoejsznpjk”

“Ponruhpucphoeuoh_ej_heuphubsjjqhoxhjrjscoengb,hi ohNhfug’ohuffjmo
_enp_hbjgjsxpnoc,”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhqsjutnychmupohRsxgplc’phaufjkh“N
qxg’ohzugohuhqnrxsfj;hno’phuyyhoejhputjhoxhtjhgxzkhXgychNhqxg’ohlgxz
zeuohejhznyyhqjfnqjhuix ohPjscxdeuk”

Ejhfx yqhgxohfxgfjnrjhexzhuohoenphtxtjgohxahoejnshtjjongbhpejhfx yq
sjtjtijshugqhoenglhxahejshpxg,hxahqnrxsfjkhZeuohqnqhnohuyyhtuoojs?

“Qxg’ohpmjulhxahoeuo,hqxg’ohoenglhxahno,”hejhpunq,ho sgngbhejsheugqhng
enp,hugqhoscngbhoxhqsuzhejshuoojgonxghoxhent;hi ohponyyhpejhqnqhgxo
yxxlhuohentk

“Xe,hzechqnqg’ohNhqnj!hnohzx yqheurjhijjghijoojs,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpnyjgo
ojusphayxzjqhqxzghixoehejshfejjlp;hi ohpejhosnjqhoxhptnyj,hpxhuphgxohox
zx gqhentk

Oxhqjfyngjhoejhayuoojsngbhugqhqugbjsx phummxngotjgohuohOupeljgqhzx yq
eurjhijjg,hRsxgplcheuqhonyyhoejghfxgpnqjsjq,hqnpbsufja yhugq
ntmxppniyjkhI ohgxz,hznoex ohughngpougo’phfxgpnqjsuonxg,hejhqjfyngjq
no,hugqhxipjsrngbhqnppuonpaufonxghnghoejhtxpohjvuyojqhw usojsphuohoenp
pojm,hejhnttjqnuojychsjonsjqhasxthoejhustck

UhtxgoehyuojshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphyjaohuyxgjhznoehenphpxghnghenp
ex pjhuohMjojspi sb,hzenyjhUgguhugqhRsxgplcheuqhbxgjhuisxuq,hgxoheurngb
xioungjqhuhqnrxsfj,hi oheurngbhuipxy ojychqjfyngjqhuyyhnqjuhxahxgjk






MUSOhANRJ


Feumojsh1

MsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucuhfxgpnqjsjqhoeuohnohzuphx ohxahoejhw jponxghaxs
oejhzjqqngbhoxhouljhmyufjhijaxsjhYjgo,h. pohanrjhzjjlphxaa,hpngfjhgxo
euyahoejhosx ppju hfx yqhmxppniychijhsjuqchichoeuohontjkhI ohpejhfx yq
gxohi ohubsjjhznoehYjrnghoeuohoxhanvhnohaxshuaojshYjgohzx yqhijhm oongb
nohxaahoxxhyuoj,huphughxyqhu gohxahMsngfjhPeofejsiuoplc’phzuphpjsnx pyc
nyyhugqhtnbeohqnj,hugqhoejghoejhtx sgngbhzx yqhqjyuchoejhzjqqngbhponyy
yxgbjskhUgqhoejsjaxsj,hqjfnqngbhoxhqnrnqjhoejhosx ppju hngoxhozx
musop—uhyusbjshugqhptuyyjshosx ppju —oejhmsngfjpphfxgpjgojqhoxheurjhoej
zjqqngbhijaxsjhYjgokhPejhqjojstngjqhoeuohpejhzx yqhbjohoejhptuyyjshmuso
xahoejhosx ppju huyyhsjuqchgxz,hugqhoejhyusbjshmusohpex yqhijhtuqj
yuojs,hugqhpejhzupht fehrjvjqhznoehYjrnghijfu pjhejhzuphngfumuiyjhxa
bnrngbhejshuhpjsnx phugpzjshoxhoejhw jponxghzejoejshejhubsjjqhoxhoenp
ussugbjtjgohxshgxokhOejhussugbjtjgohzuphoejhtxsjhp nouiyjhup,
nttjqnuojychuaojshoejhzjqqngb,hoejhcx gbhmjxmyjhzjsjhoxhbxhoxhoej
fx gosc,hzejsjhoejhtxsjhntmxsougohmusohxahoejhosx ppju hzx yqhgxohij
zugojqk

Yjrnghponyyhfxgong jqhnghoejhputjhqjynsnx phfxgqnonxghnghzenfehno
pjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejhugqhenpheummngjpphfxgpono ojqhoejhfenjahugqhpxyj
unthxahuyyhjvnpojgfj,hugqhoeuohejhgjjqhgxohgxzhoenglhxshfusjhuix o
ugcoengb,hoeuohjrjscoengbhzuphijngbhqxgjhugqhzx yqhijhqxgjhaxshenthic
xoejspkhEjheuqhgxohjrjghmyugphugqhuntphaxshoejha o sj,hejhyjaohnop
ussugbjtjgohoxhxoejsp,hlgxzngbhoeuohjrjscoengbhzx yqhijhqjynbeoa ykhEnp
isxoejshPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhoejhmsngfjpphb nqjq
enthnghqxngbhzeuohejheuqhoxhqxkhUyyhejhqnqhzuphoxhubsjjhjgonsjychznoe
jrjscoengbhp bbjpojqhoxhentkhEnphisxoejshsunpjqhtxgjchaxshent,hoej
msngfjpphuqrnpjqhenthoxhyjurjhTxpfxzhuaojshoejhzjqqngbkhPojmug
UsluqcjrnofehuqrnpjqhenthoxhbxhuisxuqkhEjhubsjjqhoxhjrjscoengbkh“Qx
zeuohcx hfexxpj,hnahnohut pjphcx khN’theummc,hugqhtcheummngjpphfughij
gxhbsjuojshugqhgxhyjpphaxshugcoengbhcx hqx,”hejhoex beokhZejghejhoxyq
LnoochxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phuqrnfjhoeuohoejchpex yqhbxhuisxuq,hej
zupht fehp smsnpjqhoeuohpejhqnqhgxohubsjjhoxhoenp,hugqheuqhpxtj
qjangnojhsjw nsjtjgophxahejshxzghnghsjbusqhoxhoejnsha o sjkhPejhlgjz
Yjrngheuqhzxslhejhyxrjqhnghoejhfx gosckhPejhqnqhgxo,huphejhpuz,
 gqjspougqhoenphzxsl,hpejhqnqhgxohjrjghfusjhoxh gqjspougqhnokhI ohoeuo
qnqhgxohmsjrjgohejshasxthsjbusqngbhnohuphuhtuoojshxahbsjuohntmxsougfjk
Ugqhoejghpejhlgjzhoejnshextjhzx yqhijhnghoejhfx gosc,hugqhpejhzugojqhox
bx,hgxohuisxuqhzejsjhpejhzuphgxohbxngbhoxhynrj,hi ohoxhoejhmyufjhzejsj
oejnshextjhzx yqhijkhOenphqjangnojychjvmsjppjqhm smxpjhupoxgnpejq
YjrngkhI ohpngfjhejhqnqhgxohfusjhjnoejshzuc,hejhnttjqnuojychupljq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphoex behnohzjsjhenphq oc,hoxhbxhqxzghoxhoej
fx goschugqhoxhussugbjhjrjscoengbhoejsjhoxhoejhijpohxahenphuinynochznoe
oejhoupojhxahzenfehejheuqhpxht fek

“I ohNhpuc,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhenthxgjhquchuaojshejheuqhfxtj
iuflhasxthoejhfx gosc,hzejsjhejheuqhbxohjrjscoengbhsjuqchaxshoejhcx gb
mjxmyj’phussnruy,h“eurjhcx huhfjsonanfuojhxaheurngbhijjghuo
fxgajppnxg?”

“GxkhI ohzeuohxahno?”

“Cx hfug’ohijhtussnjqhznoex ohnok”

“_Uïj,huïj,huïj!_”hfsnjqhYjrngkh“Zec,hNhijynjrjhno’phgngjhcjusphpngfj
N’rjhouljghoejhpufsutjgo!hNhgjrjshoex beohxahnok”

“Cx ’sjhuhmsjoochajyyxz!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehyu bengb,h“ugqhcx 
fuyyhtjhuhGnenynpo!hI ohoenphzxg’ohqx,hcx hlgxzkhCx ht pohouljhoej
pufsutjgok”

“Zejg?hOejsjhusjhax shqucphyjaohgxzk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehussugbjqhoenphuypx,hugqhYjrngheuqhoxhbxhox
fxgajppnxgkhOxhYjrng,huphoxhugch gijynjrjshzexhsjpmjfophoejhijynjaphxa
xoejsp,hnohzuphjvfjjqngbychqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhijhmsjpjgohuohugqhouljhmuso
nghfe sfehfjsjtxgnjpkhUohoenphtxtjgo,hnghenphmsjpjgohpxaojgjqhpouojhxa
ajjyngb,hpjgpnonrjhoxhjrjscoengb,hoenphngjrnouiyjhufohxahecmxfsnpchzup
gxohtjsjychmunga yhoxhYjrng,hnohpjjtjqhoxhenth oojsychntmxppniyjkhGxz,
nghoejhejcquchxahenphenbejpohbyxsc,henpha yyjpohayxzjs,hejhzx yqheurj
oxhijhuhynushxshuhpfxaajskhEjhajyohngfumuiyjhxahijngbhjnoejskhI o
oex behejhsjmjuojqychmynjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehw jponxgphuphoxhoej
mxppninynochxahxioungngbhuhfjsonanfuojhznoex ohufo uyychfxtt gnfuongb,
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehtungoungjqhoeuohnohzuphx ohxahoejhw jponxgk

“Ijpnqjp,hzeuohnphnohoxhcx —ozxhqucp?hUgqhej’phughuza yychgnfjhfyjrjs
xyqhajyyxzkhEj’yyhm yyhoejhoxxoehx ohaxshcx hpxhbjgoyc,hcx hzxg’o
gxonfjhnok”

Pougqngbhuohoejhanspohynougc,hYjrnghuoojtmojqhoxhsjrnrjhnghentpjyahenp
cx oea yhsjfxyyjfonxgphxahoejhngojgpjhsjynbnx phjtxonxghejheuqhmuppjq
oesx behijozjjghoejhubjphxahpnvojjghugqhpjrjgojjgk

I ohejhzuphuohxgfjhfxgrngfjqhoeuohnohzuph oojsychntmxppniyjhoxhentkhEj
uoojtmojqhoxhyxxlhuohnohuyyhuphughjtmochf poxt,heurngbhgxhpxsohxa
tjugngb,hynljhoejhf poxthxahmucngbhfuyypkhI ohejhajyohoeuohejhfx yqhgxo
qxhoeuohjnoejskhYjrnghax gqhentpjya,hynljhoejhtu.xsnochxahenp
fxgojtmxsusnjp,hnghoejhrub jpohmxpnonxghnghsjbusqhoxhsjynbnxgkhIjynjrj
ejhfx yqhgxo,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhejheuqhgxhansthfxgrnfonxghoeuohno
zuphuyyhzsxgbkhUgqhfxgpjw jgoyc,hgxohijngbhuiyjhoxhijynjrjhnghoej
pnbgnanfugfjhxahzeuohejhzuphqxngbhgxshoxhsjbusqhnohznoehngqnaajsjgfjhup
ughjtmochaxstuynoc,hq sngbhoejhzexyjhmjsnxqhxahmsjmusngbhaxshoej
pufsutjgohejhzuphfxgpfnx phxahuhajjyngbhxahqnpfxtaxsohugqhpeutjhuo
qxngbhzeuohejhqnqhgxohentpjyah gqjspougq,hugqhzeuo,huphughnggjshrxnfj
oxyqhent,hzuphoejsjaxsjhauypjhugqhzsxgbk

Q sngbhoejhpjsrnfjhejhzx yqhanspohynpojghoxhoejhmsucjsp,hoscngbhox
uooufehpxtjhtjugngbhoxhoejthgxohqnpfxsqugohznoehenphxzghrnjzp;hoejg
ajjyngbhoeuohejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhugqht pohfxgqjtghoejt,hejhosnjq
gxohoxhynpojghoxhoejt,hi ohoxhuoojgqhoxhoejhoex beop,hxipjsruonxgp,hugq
tjtxsnjphzenfehayxuojqhoesx behenphisunghznoehjvosjtjhrnrnqgjpphq sngb
oenphnqyjhontjhxahpougqngbhnghfe sfek

Ejheuqhpoxxqhoesx behoejhynougc,hoejhjrjgngbhpjsrnfjhugqhoejhtnqgnbeo
pjsrnfj,hugqhoejhgjvohquchejhbxoh mhjusynjshoeugh p uy,hugqhznoex o
eurngbhojuhzjgohuohjnbeohx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngbhoxhoejhfe sfehaxshoej
txsgngbhpjsrnfjhugqhoejhfxgajppnxgk

Oejsjhzuphgxhxgjhnghoejhfe sfehi ohuhijbbushpxyqnjs,hozxhxyqhzxtjg,hugq
oejhfe sfehxaanfnuypkhUhcx gbhqjufxg,hzexpjhyxgbhiuflhpexzjqhnghozx
qnpongfoheuyrjphoesx behenphoengh gqjsfuppxfl,htjohent,hugqhuohxgfj
bxngbhoxhuhynooyjhouiyjhuohoejhzuyyhsjuqhoejhjvexsouonxgkhQ sngbhoej
sjuqngb,hjpmjfnuyychuohoejhasjw jgohugqhsumnqhsjmjononxghxahoejhputj
zxsqp,h“Yxsq,heurjhtjsfchxgh p!”hzenfehsjpx gqjqhznoehughjfex,hYjrng
ajyohoeuohoex beohzuphpe ohugqhpjuyjqh m,hugqhoeuohnoht pohgxohij
ox fejqhxshponssjqhgxzhxshfxga pnxghzx yqhijhoejhsjp yo;hugqhpx
pougqngbhijengqhoejhqjufxghejhzjgohxghoenglngbhxahenphxzghuaaunsp,
gjnoejshynpojgngbhgxshjvutngngbhzeuohzuphpunqkh“No’phzxgqjsa yhzeuo
jvmsjppnxghoejsjhnphnghejsheugq,”hejhoex beo,hsjtjtijsngbhexzhoejcheuq
ijjghpnoongbhoejhquchijaxsjhuohuhfxsgjshouiyjkhOejcheuqhgxoengbhoxhouyl
uix o,huphzuphuytxpohuyzucphoejhfupjhuohoenphontj,hugqhyucngbhejsheugq
xghoejhouiyjhpejhljmohxmjgngbhugqhpe oongbhno,hugqhyu bejqhejspjyahup
pejhzuofejqhejshufonxgkhEjhsjtjtijsjqhexzhejheuqhlnppjqhnohugqhoejgheuq
jvutngjqhoejhyngjphxghoejhmnglhmuytkh“Eurjhtjsfchxgh phubung!”hoex beo
Yjrng,hfsxppngbhentpjya,hixzngb,hugqhyxxlngbhuohoejhp mmyjhpmsngbhxa
oejhqjufxg’phiuflhixzngbhijaxsjhentkh“Pejhoxxlhtcheugqhoejghugq
jvutngjqhoejhyngjph‘Cx ’rjhbxohuhpmyjgqnqheugq,’hpejhpunqk”hUgqhej
yxxljqhuohenphxzgheugqhugqhoejhpexsoheugqhxahoejhqjufxgkh“Cjp,hgxzhno
znyyhpxxghijhxrjs,”hejhoex beokh“Gx,hnohpjjtphoxhijhijbnggngbhubung,”
ejhoex beo,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhmsucjspkh“Gx,hno’ph. pohjgqngb:hoejsjhej
nphixzngbhqxzghoxhoejhbsx gqkhOeuo’phuyzucphuohoejhjgqk”

Oejhqjufxg’pheugqhnghuhmy pehf aahuffjmojqhuhoesjj-sx iyjhgxoj
 gxios pnrjyc,hugqhoejhqjufxghpunqhejhzx yqhm ohnohqxzghnghoej
sjbnpojs,hugqhenphgjzhixxophfsjulngbh.u gonychxrjshoejhayubpoxgjphxa
oejhjtmochfe sfe,hejhzjgohoxhoejhuyouskhUhtxtjgohyuojshejhmjjmjqhx o
oejgfjhugqhijflxgjqhoxhYjrngkhOex beo,honyyhoejghyxfljqh m,hijbughox
ponshnghYjrng’phejuq,hi ohejhtuqjheupojhoxhqsnrjhnohuzuckh“Nohznyyhfxtj
snbeohpxtjexz,”hejhoex beo,hugqhzjgohoxzusqphoejhuyous-sunypkhEjhzjgo
 mhoejhpojmp,hugqho sgngbhoxhoejhsnbeohpuzhoejhmsnjpokhOejhmsnjpo,hu
ynooyjhxyqhtughznoehuhpfugochbsnddyjqhijusqhugqhzjusc,hbxxq-guo sjq
jcjp,hzuphpougqngbhuohoejhuyous-sunyp,ho sgngbhxrjshoejhmubjphxahu
tnppuykhZnoehuhpynbeohixzhoxhYjrnghejhijbughnttjqnuojychsjuqngbhmsucjsp
nghoejhxaanfnuyhrxnfjkhZejghejheuqhangnpejqhoejthejhixzjqhqxzghoxhoej
bsx gqhugqho sgjq,haufngbhYjrngk

“Fesnpohnphmsjpjgohejsjh gpjjg,hsjfjnrngbhcx shfxgajppnxg,”hejhpunq,
mxngongbhoxhoejhfs fnanvkh“Qxhcx hijynjrjhnghuyyhoejhqxfosngjphxahoej
ExychUmxpoxynfhFe sfe?”hoejhmsnjpohzjgohxg,ho sgngbhenphjcjphuzuchasxt
Yjrng’phaufjhugqhaxyqngbhenpheugqph gqjshenphpoxyjk

“Nheurjhqx iojq,hNhqx iohjrjscoengb,”hpunqhYjrnghnghuhrxnfjhoeuoh.ussjq
xghentpjya,hugqhejhfjupjqhpmjulngbk

Oejhmsnjpohzunojqhuhajzhpjfxgqphoxhpjjhnahejhzx yqhgxohpuchtxsj,hugq
fyxpngbhenphjcjphejhpunqhw nflyc,hznoehuhisxuq,hRyuqntnsplchuffjgo:

“Qx iohnphguo suyhoxhoejhzjulgjpphxahtuglngq,hi ohzjht pohmsuchoeuohBxq
nghEnphtjsfchznyyhposjgboejgh pkhZeuohusjhcx shpmjfnuyhpngp?”hejhuqqjq,
znoex ohoejhpynbeojpohngojsruy,huphoex behugvnx phgxohoxhzupojhontjk

“Tchfenjahpnghnphqx iokhNheurjhqx iophxahjrjscoengb,hugqhaxshoejhtxpo
musohNhuthnghqx iok”

“Qx iohnphguo suyhoxhoejhzjulgjpphxahtuglngq,”hoejhmsnjpohsjmjuojqhoej
putjhzxsqpkh“Zeuohqxhcx hqx iohuix ohmsngfnmuyyc?”

“Nhqx iohxahjrjscoengbkhNhpxtjontjphjrjgheurjhqx iophxahoejhjvnpojgfj
xahBxq,”hYjrnghfx yqhgxohejymhpucngb,hugqhejhzuphexssnanjqhuohoej
ntmsxmsnjochxahzeuohejhzuphpucngbkhI ohYjrng’phzxsqphqnqhgxo,hno
pjjtjq,htuljht fehntmsjppnxghxghoejhmsnjpok

“Zeuohpxsohxahqx iohfughoejsjhijhxahoejhjvnpojgfjhxahBxq?”hejhpunq
e ssnjqyc,hznoehuh. pohmjsfjmoniyjhptnyjk

Yjrnghqnqhgxohpmjulk

“Zeuohqx iohfughcx heurjhxahoejhFsjuoxshzejghcx hijexyqhEnphfsjuonxg?”
oejhmsnjpohzjgohxghnghoejhsumnqhf poxtusch.usbxgkh“Zexheuphqjfljqhoej
ejurjgychanstutjgohznoehnophynbeop?hZexheuphfyxoejqhoejhjusoehnghnop
iju oc?hExzhjvmyunghnohznoex ohoejhFsjuoxs?”hejhpunq,hyxxlngb
ngw nsngbychuohYjrngk

Yjrnghajyohoeuohnohzx yqhijhntmsxmjshoxhjgojsh mxghuhtjoumecpnfuy
qnpf ppnxghznoehoejhmsnjpo,hugqhpxhejhpunqhnghsjmychtjsjychzeuohzuphu
qnsjfohugpzjshoxhoejhw jponxgk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz,”hejhpunqk

“Cx hqxg’ohlgxz!hOejghexzhfughcx hqx iohoeuohBxqhfsjuojqhuyy?”hoej
msnjpohpunq,hznoehbxxq-e txsjqhmjsmyjvnock

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhnohuohuyy,”hpunqhYjrng,hiy pengb,hugqhajjyngbhoeuo
enphzxsqphzjsjhpo mnq,hugqhoeuohoejchfx yqhgxohijhugcoengbhi ohpo mnq
nghp fehuhmxpnonxgk

“MsuchoxhBxqhugqhijpjjfehEntkhJrjghoejhexychauoejspheuqhqx iop,hugq
msucjqhoxhBxqhoxhposjgboejghoejnshaunoekhOejhqjrnyheuphbsjuohmxzjs,hugq
zjht pohsjpnpohentkhMsuchoxhBxq,hijpjjfehEntkhMsuchoxhBxq,”hejhsjmjuojq
e ssnjqyck

Oejhmsnjpohmu pjqhaxshpxtjhontj,huphoex behtjqnouongbk

“Cx ’sjhuix o,hNhejus,hoxhtusschoejhqu beojshxahtchmusnpenxgjshugqhpxg
nghoejhpmnsno,hMsngfjhPeofejsiuoplc?”hejhsjp tjq,hznoehuhptnyjkh“Ug
jvfjyyjgohcx gbhyuqck”

“Cjp,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hiy pengbhaxshoejhmsnjpokh“Zeuohqxjphejhzugohox
uplhtjhuix ohoenphuohfxgajppnxghaxs?”hejhoex beok

Ugq,huphoex behugpzjsngbhenphoex beo,hoejhmsnjpohpunqhoxhent:

“Cx husjhuix ohoxhjgojshngoxhexychtuosntxgc,hugqhBxqhtuchiyjpphcx hznoe
xaapmsngbkhZjyy,hzeuohpxsohxahisngbngb- mhfughcx hbnrjhcx shiuijphna
cx hqxhgxohxrjsfxtjhoejhojtmouonxghxahoejhqjrny,hjgonfngbhcx hox
nganqjynoc?”hejhpunq,hznoehbjgoyjhsjmsxufea ygjppkh“Nahcx hyxrjhcx s
fenyqhuphuhbxxqhauoejs,hcx hznyyhgxohqjpnsjhxgychzjuyoe,hy v sc,hexgxs
axshcx shngaugo;hcx hznyyhijhugvnx phaxshenphpuyruonxg,henphpmnsno uy
jgynbeojgtjgohznoehoejhynbeohxahos oekhJe?hZeuohugpzjshznyyhcx htulj
enthzejghoejhnggxfjgohiuijhuplphcx :h‘Mumu!hzexhtuqjhuyyhoeuohjgfeugop
tjhnghoenphzxsyq—oejhjusoe,hoejhzuojsp,hoejhp g,hoejhayxzjsp,hoej
bsupp?’hFughcx hpuchoxhent:h‘Nhqxg’ohlgxz’?hCx hfuggxohi ohlgxz,hpngfj
oejhYxsqhBxqhnghEnphngangnojhtjsfcheuphsjrjuyjqhnohoxh pkhXshcx shfenyq
znyyhuplhcx :h‘Zeuohuzunophtjhnghoejhynajhijcxgqhoejhoxti?’hZeuohznyy
cx hpuchoxhenthzejghcx hlgxzhgxoengb?hExzhznyyhcx hugpzjshent?hZnyyhcx 
yjurjhenthoxhoejhuyy sjtjgophxahoejhzxsyqhugqhoejhqjrny?hOeuo’phgxo
snbeo,”hejhpunq,hugqhejhpoxmmjq,hm oongbhenphejuqhxghxgjhpnqjhugq
yxxlngbhuohYjrnghznoehenphlngqyc,hbjgoyjhjcjpk

Yjrnghtuqjhgxhugpzjshoenphontj,hgxohijfu pjhejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhjgojs
 mxghuhqnpf ppnxghznoehoejhmsnjpo,hi ohijfu pj,hpxhaus,hgxhxgjheuqhjrjs
upljqhenthp fehw jponxgp,hugqhzejghenphiuijphqnqhuplhenthoexpj
w jponxgp,hnohzx yqhijhontjhjgx behoxhoenglhuix ohugpzjsngbhoejtk

“Cx husjhjgojsngbh mxghuhontjhxahynaj,”hm sp jqhoejhmsnjpo,h“zejghcx 
t pohfexxpjhcx shmuoehugqhljjmhoxhnokhMsuchoxhBxqhoeuohEjhtuchnghEnp
tjsfchunqhcx hugqheurjhtjsfchxghcx !”hejhfxgfy qjqkh“X shYxsqhugqhBxq,
.jp phFesnpo,hnghoejhui gqugfjhugqhsnfejphxahEnphyxrngblngqgjpp,
axsbnrjphoenphfenyqkkkk”hugq,hangnpengbhoejhmsucjshxahuipxy onxg,hoej
msnjpohiyjppjqhenthugqhqnptnppjqhentk

Xghbjoongbhextjhoeuohquc,hYjrngheuqhuhqjynbeoa yhpjgpjhxahsjynjahuohoej
uzlzusqhmxpnonxghijngbhxrjshugqheurngbhijjghbxohoesx behznoex ohenp
eurngbhoxhojyyhuhynjkhUmusohasxthoenp,hoejsjhsjtungjqhuhrub jhtjtxsc
oeuohzeuohoejhlngq,hgnfjhxyqhajyyxzheuqhpunqheuqhgxohijjghuohuyyhpx
po mnqhuphejheuqhaugfnjqhuohanspo,hugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhnghno
oeuoht pohijhfyjusjqh mk

“Xahfx spj,hgxohgxz,”hoex beohYjrng,h“i ohpxtjhquchyuojshxgk”hYjrng
ajyohtxsjhoeughjrjshgxzhoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhgxohfyjushugqhgxo
fyjughnghenphpx y,hugqhoeuo,hnghsjbusqhoxhsjynbnxg,hejhzuphnghoejhputj
mxpnonxghzenfehejhmjsfjnrjqhpxhfyjusychugqhqnpynljqhnghxoejsp,hugqhaxs
zenfehejhiyutjqhenphasnjgqhPrnudeplck

YjrnghpmjgohoeuohjrjgngbhznoehenphijosxoejqhuohQxyyc’p,hugqhzuphnghrjsc
enbehpmnsnopkhOxhjvmyunghoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoejhpouojhxahjvfnojtjgo
nghzenfehejhax gqhentpjya,hejhpunqhoeuohejhzupheummchynljhuhqxbhijngb
osungjqhoxh. tmhoesx behuhexxm,hzex,heurngbhuohyupohfu beohoejhnqju,
ugqhqxgjhzeuohzuphsjw nsjqhxahent,hzengjphugqhzubphnophouny,hugqh. tmp
 mhoxhoejhouiyjhugqhoejhzngqxzphnghnophqjynbeok


Feumojsh2

Xghoejhquchxahoejhzjqqngb,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhS ppnughf poxth(oej
msngfjpphugqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhngpnpojqhxghposnfoychljjmngbhuyyhoej
f poxtp),hYjrnghqnqhgxohpjjhenphijosxoejq,hugqhqngjqhuohenphexojyhznoe
oesjjhiufejyxshasnjgqp,hfup uyychisx beohoxbjoejshuohenphsxxtpkhOejpj
zjsjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hLuourupxr,huh gnrjspnochasnjgq,hgxzhmsxajppxs
xahguo suyhpfnjgfj,hzexthYjrngheuqhtjohnghoejhposjjohugqhngpnpojqhxg
oulngbhextjhznoehent,hugqhOfensnlxr,henphijpohtug,huhTxpfxz
fxgfnynuonxg-ixusqh. qbj,hYjrng’phfxtmugnxghnghenphijus-e gopkhOej
qnggjshzuphuhrjschtjsschxgj:hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphnghenpheummnjpo
txxq,hugqhzupht fehut pjqhichLuourupxr’phxsnbnguynockhLuourupxr,
ajjyngbhenphxsnbnguynochzuphummsjfnuojqhugqh gqjspoxxq,htuqjhoejhtxpo
xahnokhOfensnlxrhuyzucphburjhuhynrjychugqhbxxq-e txsjqhp mmxsohox
fxgrjspuonxghxahugchpxsok

“Pjj,hgxz,”hpunqhLuourupxr,hqsuzyngbhenphzxsqphasxthuheuinohufw nsjqhng
oejhyjfo sj-sxxt,h“zeuohuhfumuiyjhajyyxzhzuphx shasnjgqhLxgpougong
QtnosnjrnofekhN’thgxohpmjulngbhxahmsjpjgohfxtmugc,haxshej’phuipjgokhUo
oejhontjhejhyjaohoejh gnrjspnochejhzuphaxgqhxahpfnjgfj,hoxxlhug
ngojsjpohnghe tugnoc;hgxzhxgj-euyahxahenphuinynonjphnphqjrxojqhox
qjfjnrngbhentpjya,hugqhoejhxoejshoxh. ponacngbhoejhqjfjnok”

“Uhtxsjhqjojstngjqhjgjtchxahtuosntxgchoeughcx hNhgjrjshpuz,”hpunq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Xe,hgx,hN’thgxohughjgjtchxahtuosntxgckhN’thnghaurxshxahqnrnpnxghxa
yuixskhMjxmyjhzexhfughqxhgxoengbhjypjhx beohoxhsjushmjxmyjhzenyjhoej
sjpohzxslhaxshoejnsheummngjpphugqhjgynbeojgtjgokhOeuo’phexzhNhyxxlhuo
nokhOxht qqyjh mhozxhosuqjphnphoejhjssxshxahoejhutuoj s;hN’thgxohxgjhxa
oejnshg tijsk”

“ExzheummchNhpeuyyhijhzejghNhejushoeuohcx ’sjhnghyxrj!”hpunqhYjrngk
“Myjupjhngrnojhtjhoxhoejhzjqqngbk”

“N’thnghyxrjhgxzk”

“Cjp,hznoehuhf ooyjanpe!hCx hlgxz,”hYjrngho sgjqhoxhenphisxoejs,
“TneunyhPjtcxgxrnofehnphzsnongbhuhzxslhxghoejhqnbjponrjhxsbugphxa
oejkkkk”

“Gxz,htuljhuht qqyjhxahno!hNohqxjpg’ohtuoojshzeuohuix okhUgqhoejhaufo
np,hNhfjsoungychqxhyxrjhf ooyjanpek”

“I ohoeuo’phgxhengqsugfjhoxhcx shyxrngbhcx shznajk”

“Oejhf ooyjanpehnphgxhengqsugfjkhOejhznajhnphoejhengqsugfjk”

“Zechpx?”

“Xe,hcx ’yyhpjj!hCx hfusjhuix ohaustngb,he gongb,—zjyy,hcx ’qhijoojs
yxxlhx o!”

“Usenmhzuphejsjhoxquc;hejhpunqhoejsjhzjsjhuhyxohxahjylphnghMs qgx,hugq
ozxhijusp,”hpunqhOfensnlxrk

“Zjyy,hcx ht pohbxhugqhbjohoejthznoex ohtjk”

“Ue,hoeuo’phoejhos oe,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“Ugqhcx htuchpuc
bxxq-icjhoxhijus-e gongbhaxshoejha o sj—cx shznajhzxg’ohuyyxzhno!”

YjrnghptnyjqkhOejhmnfo sjhxahenphznajhgxohyjoongbhenthbxhzuphpx
myjupugohoeuohejhzuphsjuqchoxhsjgx gfjhoejhqjynbeophxahyxxlngbh mxg
ijusphaxsjrjsk

“Ponyy,hno’phuhmnochoejchpex yqhbjohoexpjhozxhijusphznoex ohcx khQxhcx 
sjtjtijshyupohontjhuohEumnyxrx?hOeuohzuphuhqjynbeoa yhe go!”hpunq
Ofensnlxrk

Yjrngheuqhgxohoejhejusohoxhqnpnyy pnxghenthxahoejhgxonxghoeuohoejsj
fx yqhijhpxtjoengbhqjynbeoa yhumusohasxthejs,hugqhpxhpunqhgxoengbk

“Oejsj’phpxtjhpjgpjhnghoenphf poxthxahpucngbhbxxq-icjhoxhiufejyxs
ynaj,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“Exzjrjsheummchcx htuchij,hcx ht po
sjbsjohcx shasjjqxtk”

“Ugqhfxgajpphoejsjhnphuhajjyngbhoeuohcx hzugohoxh. tmhx ohxahoej
zngqxz,hynljhBxbxy’phisnqjbsxxt?”

“Xahfx spjhoejsjhnp,hi ohnohnpg’ohfxgajppjq,”hpunqhLuourupxr,hugqhej
isxljhngoxhyx qhyu beojsk

“Xe,hzjyy,hoejhzngqxz’phxmjgkhYjo’phpousohxaahoenphngpougohoxhOrjs!
Oejsj’phuhinbhpej-ijus;hxgjhfughbxhsnbeoh mhoxhoejhyunskhPjsnx pyc,
yjo’phbxhichoejhanrjhx’fyxfl!hUgqhejsjhyjohoejthqxhzeuohoejchynlj,”
punqhOfensnlxr,hptnyngbk

“Zjyy,hgxz,hxghtchexgxs,”hpunqhYjrng,hptnyngb,h“Nhfug’ohangqhnghtc
ejusohoeuohajjyngbhxahsjbsjohaxshtchasjjqxtk”

“Cjp,hoejsj’php fehuhfeuxphnghcx shejusoh. pohgxzhoeuohcx hfug’ohangq
ugcoengbhoejsj,”hpunqhLuourupxrkh“Zunohuhino,hzejghcx hpjohnohoxhsnbeop
uhynooyj,hcx ’yyhangqhno!”

“Gx;hnahpx,hNhpex yqheurjhajyohuhynooyj,humusohasxthtchajjyngb”h(ej
fx yqhgxohpuchyxrjhijaxsjhoejt)h“ugqheummngjpp,huhfjsounghsjbsjohuo
yxpngbhtchasjjqxtkkkkhXghoejhfxgosusc,hNhuthbyuqhuohoejhrjschyxpphxahtc
asjjqxtk”

“Uza y!hNo’phuhexmjyjpphfupj!”hpunqhLuourupxrkh“Zjyy,hyjo’phqsnglhox
enphsjfxrjsc,hxshznpehoeuohuhe gqsjqoehmusohxahenphqsjutphtuchij
sjuyndjq—ugqhoeuohzx yqhijheummngjpphp fehuphgjrjsheuphijjghpjjghxg
jusoe!”

Pxxghuaojshqnggjshoejhb jpophzjgohuzuchoxhijhnghontjhoxhijhqsjppjqhaxs
oejhzjqqngbk

Zejghejhzuphyjaohuyxgj,hugqhsjfuyyjqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghxahoejpjhiufejyxs
asnjgqp,hYjrnghupljqhentpjya:heuqhejhnghenphejusohoeuohsjbsjohaxshenp
asjjqxthxahzenfehoejcheuqhpmxljg?hEjhptnyjqhuohoejhw jponxgkh“Asjjqxt!
Zeuohnphasjjqxthaxs?hEummngjpphnphxgychnghyxrngbhugqhznpengbhejs
znpejp,hoenglngbhejshoex beop,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hgxohasjjqxthuo
uyy—oeuo’pheummngjpp!”

“I ohqxhNhlgxzhejshnqjup,hejshznpejp,hejshajjyngbp?”hpxtjhrxnfj
p qqjgychzenpmjsjqhoxhentkhOejhptnyjhqnjqhuzuchasxthenphaufj,hugqhej
bsjzhoex beoa ykhUgqhp qqjgychuhposugbjhajjyngbhfutjh mxghentkhOejsj
futjhxrjshenthuhqsjuqhugqhqx io—qx iohxahjrjscoengbk

“Zeuohnahpejhqxjphgxohyxrjhtj?hZeuohnahpej’phtusscngbhtjhpntmychoxhij
tussnjq?hZeuohnahpejhqxjpg’ohpjjhejspjyahzeuohpej’phqxngb?”hejhupljq
entpjyakh“Pejhtuchfxtjhoxhejshpjgpjp,hugqhxgychzejghpejhnphijngb
tussnjqhsjuyndjhoeuohpejhqxjphgxohugqhfuggxohyxrjhtjk”hUgqhposugbj,
txpohjrnyhoex beophxahejshijbughoxhfxtjhoxhentkhEjhzuph.juyx phxa
Rsxgplc,huphejheuqhijjghuhcjushubx,huphoex behoejhjrjgngbhejheuqhpjjg
ejshznoehRsxgplcheuqhijjghcjpojsquckhEjhp pmjfojqhpejheuqhgxohoxyqhent
jrjscoengbk

Ejh. tmjqh mhw nflyckh“Gx,hoenphfug’ohbxhxg!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyahng
qjpmunskh“N’yyhbxhoxhejs;hN’yyhuplhejs;hN’yyhpuchaxshoejhyupohontj:hzj
usjhasjj,hugqheuqg’ohzjhijoojshpouchpx?hUgcoengb’phijoojshoeughjgqyjpp
tnpjsc,hqnpbsufj,h gaunoea ygjpp!”hZnoehqjpmunshnghenphejusohugqhinoojs
ugbjshubungpohuyyhtjg,hubungpohentpjya,hubungpohejs,hejhzjgohx ohxahoej
exojyhugqhqsxrjhoxhejshex pjk

Ejhax gqhejshnghxgjhxahoejhiuflhsxxtpkhPejhzuphpnoongbhxghuhfejpohugq
tulngbhpxtjhussugbjtjgophznoehejshtunq,hpxsongbhxrjshejumphxahqsjppjp
xahqnaajsjgohfxyxsp,hpmsjuqhxghoejhiuflphxahfeunsphugqhxghoejhayxxsk

“Ue!”hpejhfsnjq,hpjjngbhent,hugqhijutngbhznoehqjynbeokh“Lxpocu!
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe!”h(Oejpjhyuoojshqucphpejh pjqhoejpjhgutjp
uytxpohuyojsguojyck)h“Nhqnqg’ohjvmjfohcx !hN’thbxngbhoesx behtc
zusqsxijhoxhpjjhzeuo’phaxshzextkkkk”

“Xe!hoeuo’phrjschgnfj!”hejhpunqhbyxxtnyc,hyxxlngbhuohoejhtunqk

“Cx hfughbx,hQ gcupeu,hN’yyhfuyyhcx hmsjpjgoyc,”hpunqhLnoockh“Lxpocu,
zeuo’phoejhtuoojs?”hpejhupljq,hqjangnojychuqxmongbhoenphautnynushgutj
uphpxxghuphoejhtunqheuqhbxgjhx okhPejhgxonfjqhenphposugbjhaufj,
ubnouojqhugqhbyxxtc,hugqhuhmugnfhfutjhxrjshejsk

“Lnooc!hN’thnghoxso sjkhNhfug’ohp aajshuyxgj,”hejhpunqhznoehqjpmunshng
enphrxnfj,hpougqngbhijaxsjhejshugqhyxxlngbhntmyxsngbychngoxhejshjcjpk
Ejhpuzhuysjuqchasxthejshyxrngb,hos oea yhaufj,hoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhfxtj
xahzeuohejheuqhtjugohoxhpuc,hi ohcjohejhzugojqhejshoxhsjupp sjhent
ejspjyakh“N’rjhfxtjhoxhpuchoeuohoejsj’phponyyhontjkhOenphfughuyyhij
poxmmjqhugqhpjohsnbeok”

“Zeuo?hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqkhZeuohnphoejhtuoojs?”

“ZeuohNheurjhpunqhuhoex pugqhontjphxrjs,hugqhfug’ohejymhoenglngbhkkk
oeuohN’thgxohzxsoechxahcx khCx hfx yqg’ohfxgpjgohoxhtusschtjkhOenglhu
ynooyjkhCx ’rjhtuqjhuhtnpouljkhOenglhnohxrjshoexsx beyckhCx hfug’ohyxrj
tjkkkkhNahkkkhijoojshpuchpx,”hejhpunq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohejskh“Nhpeuyyhij
zsjofejqkhYjohmjxmyjhpuchzeuohoejchynlj;hugcoengb’phijoojshoeug
tnpjsckkkkhAushijoojshgxzhzenyjhoejsj’phponyyhontjkkkk”

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougq,”hpejhugpzjsjq,hmugnf-posnfljg;h“cx htjughcx hzugo
oxhbnrjhnoh mhkkkhqxg’ohzugohno?”

“Cjp,hnahcx hqxg’ohyxrjhtjk”

“Cx ’sjhx ohxahcx shtngq!”hpejhfsnjq,ho sgngbhfsntpxghznoehrjvuonxgk
I ohenphaufjhzuphpxhmnojx p,hoeuohpejhsjposungjqhejshrjvuonxg,hugq
ayngbngbhpxtjhfyxoejphxaahughustfeuns,hpejhpuohqxzghijpnqjhentkh“Zeuo
usjhcx hoenglngb?hojyyhtjhuyyk”

“Nhuthoenglngbhcx hfug’ohyxrjhtjkhZeuohfughcx hyxrjhtjhaxs?”

“TchBxq!hzeuohfughNhqx?kkk”hpejhpunq,hugqhi spohngoxhojuspk

“Xe!hzeuoheurjhNhqxgj?”hejhfsnjq,hugqhlgjjyngbhijaxsjhejs,hejhajyyhox
lnppngbhejsheugqpk

Zejghoejhmsngfjpphfutjhngoxhoejhsxxthanrjhtng ojphyuojs,hpejhax gqhoejt
fxtmyjojychsjfxgfnyjqkhLnoocheuqhgxohpntmychupp sjqhenthoeuohpejhyxrjq
ent,hi oheuqhbxgjhpxhaus—nghugpzjshoxhenphw jponxg,hzeuohpejhyxrjqhent
axs—uphoxhjvmyunghzeuohaxskhPejhoxyqhenthoeuohpejhyxrjqhenthijfu pjhpej
 gqjspoxxqhenthfxtmyjojyc,hijfu pjhpejhlgjzhzeuohejhzx yqhynlj,hugq
ijfu pjhjrjscoengbhejhynljqhzuphbxxqkhUgqhoenphpjjtjqhoxhenthmjsajfoyc
fyjuskhZejghoejhmsngfjpphfutjhoxhoejt,hoejchzjsjhpnoongbhpnqjhichpnqj
xghoejhfejpo,hpxsongbhoejhqsjppjphugqhqnpm ongbhxrjshLnooc’phzugongbhox
bnrjhQ gcupeuhoejhisxzghqsjpphpejheuqhijjghzjusngbhzejghYjrnghmsxmxpjq
oxhejs,hzenyjhejhngpnpojqhoeuohoeuohqsjppht pohgjrjshijhbnrjghuzuc,hi o
Q gcupeuht poheurjhoejhiy jhxgjk

“Exzhnphnohcx hqxg’ohpjj?hPej’phuhis gjooj,hugqhnohzxg’ohp nohejskkkk
N’rjhzxsljqhnohuyyhx ok”

Ejusngbhzechejheuqhfxtj,hoejhmsngfjpphzupheuyahe txsx pyc,heuya
pjsnx pychugbschznoehent,hugqhpjgohenthextjhoxhqsjpphugqhgxohoxhengqjs
Lnooc’pheuns-qsjppngb,huphFeusyjphoejheuns-qsjppjshzuph. pohfxtngbk

“Uphnohnp,hpej’phijjghjuongbhgxoengbhyuojychugqhnphyxpngbhejshyxxlp,
ugqhoejghcx ht pohfxtjhugqh mpjohejshznoehcx shgxgpjgpj,”hpejhpunqhox
entkh“Bjohuyxgbhznoehcx ,htchqjus!”

Yjrng,hb nyochugqhpeutjaufjq,hi ohmufnanjq,hzjgohiuflhoxhenphexojykhEnp
isxoejs,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huyyhngha yy
qsjpp,hzjsjhzunongbhaxshenthoxhiyjpphenthznoehoejhexychmnfo sjkhOejsj
zuphgxhontjhoxhyxpjkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhoxhqsnrjhextjhubunghox
ajofehejshf syjqhugqhmxtuqjqhpxg,hzexhzuphoxhfusschoejhexychmnfo sjp
uaojshoejhisnqjkhOejghuhfussnubjheuqhoxhijhpjgohaxshoejhijpohtug,hugq
ugxoejshoeuohzx yqhouljhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehuzuchzx yqheurjhoxhijhpjgo
iuflkkkkhUyoxbjoejshoejsjhzjsjhuhbsjuohtugchtxpohfxtmynfuojqhtuoojsphox
ijhfxgpnqjsjqhugqhussugbjqkhXgjhoengbhzuph gtnpouluiyj,hoeuohoejsjht po
ijhgxhqjyuc,huphnohzuphuysjuqcheuya-mupohpnvk

Gxoengbhpmjfnuyheummjgjqhuohoejhfjsjtxgchxahijgjqnfonxghznoehoejhexyc
mnfo sjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpoxxqhnghuhfxtnfuyychpxyjtghmxpjhijpnqj
enphznaj,hoxxlhoejhexychmnfo sj,hugqhojyyngbhYjrnghoxhixzhqxzghoxhoej
bsx gq,hejhiyjppjqhenthznoehenphlngqyc,hnsxgnfuyhptnyj,hugqhlnppjqhent
oesjjhontjp;hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqnqhoejhputj,hugqhnttjqnuojychzuphnghu
e sschoxhbjohxaa,hugqhubunghmy gbjqhngoxhoejhngosnfuojhw jponxghxahoej
qjponguonxgphxahoejhrusnx phfussnubjpk

“Fxtj,hN’yyhojyyhcx hexzhzj’yyhtugubj:hcx hqsnrjhnghx shfussnubjhox
ajofehent,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hnahej’yyhijhpxhbxxq,hznyyhqsnrjhoejsj
ugqhoejghpjgqhenphfussnubjk”

“Xahfx spj;hNhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojqk”

“Zj’yyhfxtjhxghqnsjfoychznoehentkhUsjhcx shoengbphpjgohxaa?”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Cjp,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hugqhejhoxyqhLx dtuhoxhm ohx ohenphfyxoejphaxs
enthoxhqsjppk


Feumojsh3

Uhfsxzqhxahmjxmyj,hmsngfnmuyychzxtjg,hzuphoesxgbngbhsx gqhoejhfe sfe
ynbeojqh mhaxshoejhzjqqngbkhOexpjhzexheuqhgxohp ffjjqjqhnghbjoongbhngox
oejhtunghjgosugfjhzjsjhfsxzqngbhuix ohoejhzngqxzp,hm pengb,hzsugbyngb,
ugqhmjjmngbhoesx behoejhbsuongbpk

Txsjhoeughozjgochfussnubjpheuqhuysjuqchijjghqsuzgh mhnghsuglphuyxgbhoej
posjjohichoejhmxynfjkhUhmxynfjhxaanfjs,hsjbusqyjpphxahoejhasxpo,hpoxxq
uohoejhjgosugfj,hbxsbjx phnghenph gnaxstkhTxsjhfussnubjphzjsj
fxgong uyychqsnrngbh m,hugqhyuqnjphzjusngbhayxzjsphugqhfusscngbhoejns
osungp,hugqhtjghoulngbhxaahoejnshejytjophxshiyuflheuophljmohzuylngb
ngoxhoejhfe sfekhNgpnqjhoejhfe sfehixoehy pojsphzjsjhuysjuqchynbeojq,
ugqhuyyhoejhfugqyjphijaxsjhoejhexychmnfo sjpkhOejhbnyohxghoejhsjq
bsx gqhxahoejhexychmnfo sj-pougq,hugqhoejhbnyohsjynjahxghoejhmnfo sjp,
ugqhoejhpnyrjshxahoejhy pojsphugqhfugqyjponflp,hugqhoejhpoxgjphxahoej
ayxxs,hugqhoejhs bp,hugqhoejhiuggjsphuixrjhnghoejhfexns,hugqhoejhpojmp
xahoejhuyous,hugqhoejhxyqhiyufljgjqhixxlp,hugqhoejhfuppxflphugq
p smynfjp—uyyhzjsjhayxxqjqhznoehynbeokhXghoejhsnbeohpnqjhxahoejhzust
fe sfe,hnghoejhfsxzqhxahasxflhfxuophugqhzenojhonjp,h gnaxstphugq
isxuqfyxoe,hrjyrjo,hpuong,heunshugqhayxzjsp,hiusjhpex yqjsphugqhustp
ugqhyxgbhbyxrjp,hoejsjhzuphqnpfsjjohi ohynrjychfxgrjspuonxghoeuohjfexjq
posugbjychnghoejhenbehf mxyukhJrjschontjhoejsjhzuphejusqhoejhfsjulhxa
oejhxmjgjqhqxxshoejhfxgrjspuonxghnghoejhfsxzqhqnjqhuzuc,hugqhjrjscixqc
yxxljqhsx gqhjvmjfongbhoxhpjjhoejhisnqjhugqhisnqjbsxxthfxtjhngkhI ohoej
qxxsheuqhxmjgjqhtxsjhoeughojghontjp,hugqhjufehontjhnohzuphjnoejshu
ijyuojqhb jpohxshb jpop,hzexh.xngjqhoejhfnsfyjhxahoejhngrnojqhxghoej
snbeo,hxshuhpmjfouoxs,hzexheuqhjy qjqhxshpxaojgjqhoejhmxynfjhxaanfjs,
ugqhzjgohoxh.xnghoejhfsxzqhxahx opnqjsphxghoejhyjaokhIxoehoejhb jpop
ugqhoejhx opnqjhm iynfheuqhichgxzhmuppjqhoesx behuyyhoejhmeupjphxa
ugonfnmuonxgk

Uohanspohoejchntubngjqhoeuohoejhisnqjhugqhisnqjbsxxthzx yqhussnrj
nttjqnuojyc,hugqhuooufejqhgxhntmxsougfjhuohuyyhoxhoejnshijngbhyuojk
Oejghoejchijbughoxhyxxlhtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojghoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hugqhox
ouylhxahzejoejshugcoengbhfx yqheurjheummjgjqkhOejghoejhyxgbhqjyuchijbug
oxhijhmxpnonrjychqnpfxtaxsongb,hugqhsjyuonxgphugqhb jpophosnjqhoxhyxxl
uphnahoejchzjsjhgxohoenglngbhxahoejhisnqjbsxxthi ohzjsjhjgbsxppjqhng
fxgrjspuonxgk

Oejhejuqhqjufxg,huphoex behoxhsjtngqhoejthxahoejhruy jhxahenphontj,
fx bejqhntmuonjgoyc,htulngbhoejhzngqxz-mugjphw nrjshnghoejnshasutjpkhNg
oejhfexnshoejhixsjqhfexsnpojsphfx yqhijhejusqhoscngbhoejnshrxnfjphugq
iyxzngbhoejnshgxpjpkhOejhmsnjpohzuphfxgong uyychpjgqngbhanspohoej
ijuqyjhugqhoejghoejhqjufxghoxhangqhx ohzejoejshoejhisnqjbsxxtheuqhgxo
fxtj,htxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojghejhzjgohentpjya,hnghuhynyufhrjpotjgohugqhug
jtisxnqjsjqhpupe,hoxhoejhpnqjhqxxs,hjvmjfongbhoxhpjjhoejhisnqjbsxxtkhUo
yupohxgjhxahoejhyuqnjp,hbyugfngbhuohejshzuofe,hpunq,h“Nohsjuyychnp
posugbj,hoex be!”hugqhuyyhoejhb jpophijfutjh gjupchugqhijbughyx qyc
jvmsjppngbhoejnshzxgqjshugqhqnppuonpaufonxgkhXgjhxahoejhisnqjbsxxt’p
ijpohtjghzjgohoxhangqhx ohzeuoheuqheummjgjqkhLnoochtjugzenyjheuqhyxgb
ubxhijjghw nojhsjuqc,hugqhnghejshzenojhqsjpphugqhyxgbhrjnyhugqhzsjuoe
xahxsugbjhiyxppxtphpejhzuphpougqngbhnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthxahoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hex pjhznoehejshpnpojs,hTuqutjhYrxru,hzexhzuphejs
isnquy-txoejskhPejhzuphyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxz,hugqheuqhijjghaxshxrjs
euyahughex shugvnx pychjvmjfongbhoxhejushasxthoejhijpohtughoeuohejs
isnqjbsxxthzuphuohoejhfe sfek

Yjrnghtjugzenyj,hnghenphosx pjsp,hi ohznoex ohenphfxuohugqhzunpofxuo,
zuphzuylngbhoxhugqhasxhnghenphsxxthuohoejhexojy,hfxgong uyychm oongb
enphejuqhx ohxahoejhqxxshugqhyxxlngbh mhugqhqxzghoejhfxssnqxskhI ohng
oejhfxssnqxshoejsjhzuphgxhpnbghxahoejhmjspxghejhzuphyxxlngbhaxshugqhej
futjhiuflhnghqjpmuns,hugqhasugonfuyychzurngbhenpheugqphuqqsjppjqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hzexhzuphptxlngbhpjsjgjyck

“Zuphjrjshuhtughnghp fehuhajusa yhaxxy’phmxpnonxg?”hejhpunqk

“Cjp,hnohnphpo mnq,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehuppjgojq,hptnyngbhpxxoengbyck
“I ohqxg’ohzxssc,hno’yyhijhisx beohqnsjfoyck”

“Gx,hzeuohnphoxhijhqxgj!”hpunqhYjrng,hznoehptxoejsjqha sckh“Ugqhoejpj
axxyphxahxmjghzunpofxuop!hX ohxahoejhw jponxg!”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohoej
fs tmyjqhasxgohxahenphpensokh“Ugqhzeuohnahoejhoengbpheurjhijjghouljghxg
oxhoejhsunyzuchpouonxg!”hejhsxusjqhnghqjpmjsuonxgk

“Oejghcx ht pohm ohxghtngjk”

“Nhx beohoxheurjhqxgjhpxhyxgbhubx,hnahuohuyyk”

“No’phgxohgnfjhoxhyxxlhsnqnf yx pkkkkhZunohuhino!hnohznyyh_fxtj
sx gq_k”

OejhmxngohzuphoeuohzejghYjrnghupljqhaxshenphjrjgngbhp no,hLx dtu,henp
xyqhpjsrugo,heuqhisx beohenthoejhfxuo,hzunpofxuo,hugqhjrjscoengbhoeuo
zuphzugojqk

“I ohoejhpenso!”hfsnjqhYjrngk

“Cx ’rjhbxohuhpensohxg,”hLx dtuhugpzjsjq,hznoehuhmyufnqhptnyjk

Lx dtuheuqhgxohoex beohxahyjurngbhx ohuhfyjughpenso,hugqhxghsjfjnrngb
ngpos fonxgphoxhmuflh mhjrjscoengbhugqhpjgqhnohsx gqhoxhoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’hex pj,hasxthzenfehoejhcx gbhmjxmyjhzjsjhoxhpjohx ohoej
putjhjrjgngb,hejheuqhqxgjhpx,hmuflngbhjrjscoengbhi ohoejhqsjpphp nok
Oejhpensohzxsghpngfjhoejhtxsgngbhzuphfs tmyjqhugqhx ohxahoejhw jponxg
znoehoejhaupenxguiyjhxmjghzunpofxuokhNohzuphuhyxgbhzuchoxhpjgqhoxhoej
Peofejsiuoplcp’khOejchpjgohx ohoxhi chuhpensokhOejhpjsrugohfutjhiufl;
jrjscoengbhzuphpe oh m—nohzuphP gquckhOejchpjgohoxhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe’phugqhisx beohuhpenso—nohzuphntmxppniychznqjhugqhpexsok
OejchpjgohanguyychoxhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hoxh gmuflhoejhoengbpkhOej
isnqjbsxxthzuphjvmjfojqhuohoejhfe sfehzenyjhejhzuphmufngbh mhugqhqxzg
enphsxxthynljhuhznyqhijupohnghuhfubj,hmjjmngbhx ohngoxhoejhfxssnqxs,
ugqhznoehexssxshugqhqjpmunshsjfuyyngbhzeuohuip sqhoengbphejheuqhpunqhox
Lnoochugqhzeuohpejhtnbeohijhoenglngbhgxzk

Uohyupohoejhb nyochLx dtuhayjzhmugongbhngoxhoejhsxxthznoehoejhpensok

“Xgych. pohnghontjkhOejchzjsjh. pohynaongbhnohngoxhoejhrug,”hpunq
Lx dtuk

Oesjjhtng ojphyuojshYjrnghsugha yyhpmjjqhngoxhoejhfxssnqxs,hgxohyxxlngb
uohenphzuofehaxshajushxahubbsuruongbhenphp aajsngbpk

“Cx hzxg’ohejymhtuoojsphynljhoenp,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehu
ptnyj,he sscngbhznoehtxsjhqjynijsuonxghuaojshentkh“Nohznyyhfxtjhsx gq,
nohznyyhfxtjhsx gqhkkkhNhojyyhcx k”


Feumojsh4

“Oejc’rjhfxtj!”h“Ejsjhejhnp!”h“Zenfehxgj?”h“Suoejshcx gb,hje?”h“Zec,htc
qjushpx y,hpejhyxxlphtxsjhqjuqhoeughuynrj!”hzjsjhoejhfxttjgophnghoej
fsxzq,hzejghYjrng,htjjongbhenphisnqjhnghoejhjgosugfj,hzuyljqhznoehejs
ngoxhoejhfe sfek

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxyqhenphznajhoejhfu pjhxahoejhqjyuc,hugqhoej
b jpophzjsjhzenpmjsngbhnohznoehptnyjphoxhxgjhugxoejskhYjrnghpuzhgxoengb
ugqhgxhxgj;hejhqnqhgxohouljhenphjcjphxaahenphisnqjk

Jrjscxgjhpunqhpejheuqhyxpohejshyxxlphqsjuqa yychxahyuoj,hugqhzuphgxo
gjusychpxhmsjoochxghejshzjqqngbhquchuph p uy;hi ohYjrnghqnqhgxohoengl
pxkhEjhyxxljqhuohejsheunshqxgjh mhenbe,hznoehoejhyxgbhzenojhrjnyhugq
zenojhayxzjsphugqhoejhenbe,hpougq- m,hpfuyyxmjqhfxyyus,hoeuohnghp fehu
tunqjgychaupenxghenqhejshyxgbhgjflhuohoejhpnqjphugqhxgychpexzjqhnohng
asxgo,hejshposnlngbychpyjgqjshanb sj,hugqhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohpej
yxxljqhijoojshoeughjrjs—gxohijfu pjhoejpjhayxzjsp,hoenphrjny,hoenphbxzg
asxthMusnphuqqjqhugcoengbhoxhejshiju oc;hi ohijfu pj,hnghpmnojhxahoej
jyuixsuojhp tmo x pgjpphxahejshuoonsj,hoejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshpzjjo
aufj,hxahejshjcjp,hxahejshynmphzuphponyyhejshxzghfeusufojsnponf
jvmsjppnxghxahb nyjyjpphos oea ygjppk

“Nhzuphijbnggngbhoxhoenglhcx htjugohoxhs ghuzuc,”hpejhpunq,hugqhptnyjq
oxhentk

“No’phpxhpo mnq,hzeuoheummjgjqhoxhtj,hN’thupeutjqhoxhpmjulhxahno!”hej
punq,hsjqqjgngb,hugqhejhzuphxiynbjqhoxho sghoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzex
futjh mhoxhentk

“Oenphnphuhmsjoochpoxschxahcx sphuix ohoejhpenso!”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hpeulngbhenphejuqhugqhptnyngbk

“Cjp,hcjp!”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hznoex ohughnqjuhxahzeuohoejchzjsjhouylngb
uix ok

“Gxz,hLxpocu,hcx heurjhoxhqjfnqj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehughuns
xahtxflhqnptuc,h“uhzjnbeochw jponxgkhCx husjhuohoenphtxtjgoh. pohnghoej
e txshoxhummsjfnuojhuyyhnophbsurnockhOejchuplhtj,husjhoejchoxhynbeohoej
fugqyjphoeuoheurjhijjghynbeojqhijaxsjhxshfugqyjphoeuoheurjhgjrjshijjg
ynbeojq?hNo’phuhtuoojshxahojghsx iyjp,”hejhuqqjq,hsjyuvngbhenphynmp
ngoxhuhptnyjkh“Nheurjhqjfnqjq,hi ohNhzuphuasunqhcx htnbeohgxohubsjjk”

Yjrnghpuzhnohzuphuh.xlj,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohptnyjk

“Zjyy,hexz’phnohoxhijhoejg?— gynbeojqhxshynbeojqhfugqyjp?hoeuo’phoej
w jponxgk”

“Cjp,hcjp,h gynbeojqk”

“Xe,hN’thrjschbyuqkhOejhw jponxg’phqjfnqjq!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
ptnyngbkh“Exzhpnyychtjghusj,hoex be,hnghoenphmxpnonxg,”hejhpunqhox
Ofensnlxr,hzejghYjrng,huaojshyxxlngbhuipjgoychuohent,heuqhtxrjqhiuflhox
enphisnqjk

“Lnooc,htngqhcx ’sjhoejhanspohoxhpojmhxghoejhfusmjo,”hpunqhFx gojpp
Gxsqpoxg,hfxtngbh mkh“Cx ’sjhuhgnfjhmjspxg!”hpejhpunqhoxhYjrngk

“Usjg’ohcx hasnbeojgjq,hje?”hpunqhTuscuhQtnosnjrgu,hughxyqhu gok

“Usjhcx hfxyq?hCx ’sjhmuyjkhPoxmhuhtng oj,hpoxxmhqxzg,”hpunqhLnooc’p
pnpojs,hTuqutjhYrxru,hugqhznoehejshmy tm,heugqpxtjhustphpejhptnyngbyc
pjohposunbeohoejhayxzjsphxghejshejuqk

Qxyychfutjh m,hosnjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hi ohfx yqhgxohpmjul,hfsnjq,hugq
oejghyu bejqh gguo suyyck

LnoochyxxljqhuohuyyhxahoejthznoehoejhputjhuipjgohjcjphuphYjrngk

Tjugzenyjhoejhxaanfnuongbhfyjsbcheuqhbxohngoxhoejnshrjpotjgop,hugqhoej
msnjpohugqhqjufxghfutjhx ohoxhoejhyjfojsg,hzenfehpoxxqhnghoejhaxsjmuso
xahoejhfe sfekhOejhmsnjpoho sgjqhoxhYjrnghpucngbhpxtjoengbkhYjrnghqnq
gxohejushzeuohoejhmsnjpohpunqk

“Ouljhoejhisnqj’pheugqhugqhyjuqhejsh m,”hoejhijpohtughpunqhoxhYjrngk

NohzuphuhyxgbhzenyjhijaxsjhYjrnghfx yqhtuljhx ohzeuohzuphjvmjfojqhxa
entkhAxshuhyxgbhontjhoejchosnjqhoxhpjohenthsnbeohugqhtuqjhenthijbng
ubung—ijfu pjhejhljmohoulngbhLnoochichoejhzsxgbhusthxshznoehoejhzsxgb
ust—onyyhejh gqjspoxxqhuohyupohoeuohzeuohejheuqhoxhqxhzup,hznoex o
feugbngbhenphmxpnonxg,hoxhouljhejshsnbeoheugqhnghenphsnbeoheugqkhZejg
uohyupohejheuqhouljghoejhisnqj’pheugqhnghoejhfxssjfohzuc,hoejhmsnjpo
zuyljqhuhajzhmufjphnghasxgohxahoejthugqhpoxmmjqhuohoejhyjfojsgkhOej
fsxzqhxahasnjgqphugqhsjyuonxgphtxrjqhuaojshoejt,hznoehuhi ddhxahouyl
ugqhuhs poyjhxahplnsopkhPxtjxgjhpoxxmjqhqxzghugqhm yyjqhx ohoejhisnqj’p
osungkhOejhfe sfehijfutjhpxhponyyhoeuohoejhqsxmphxahzuvhfx yqhijhejusq
auyyngbhasxthoejhfugqyjpk

Oejhynooyjhxyqhmsnjpohnghenphjffyjpnuponfuyhfum,hznoehenphyxgb
pnyrjsc-bsuchyxflphxaheunshmusojqhijengqhenphjusp,hzupha tiyngbhznoe
pxtjoengbhuohoejhyjfojsg,hm oongbhx ohenphynooyjhxyqheugqphasxth gqjs
oejhejurchpnyrjshrjpotjgohznoehoejhbxyqhfsxpphxghoejhiuflhxahnok

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehummsxufejqhenthfu onx pyc,hzenpmjsjqhpxtjoengb,hugq
tulngbhuhpnbghoxhYjrng,hzuyljqhiuflhubungk

Oejhmsnjpohynbeojqhozxhfugqyjp,hzsjuoejqhznoehayxzjsp,hugqhexyqngbhoejt
pnqjzucphpxhoeuohoejhzuvhqsxmmjqhpyxzychasxthoejthejho sgjq,haufngbhoej
isnquyhmunskhOejhmsnjpohzuphoejhputjhxyqhtughoeuoheuqhfxgajppjqhYjrngk
Ejhyxxljqhznoehzjuschugqhtjyugfexychjcjphuohoejhisnqjhugqhisnqjbsxxt,
pnbejq,hugqhm oongbhenphsnbeoheugqhx ohasxthenphrjpotjgo,hiyjppjqhoej
isnqjbsxxthznoehno,hugqhuypxhznoehuhpeuqjhxahpxynfnox phojgqjsgjpphyunq
oejhfsxppjqhangbjsphxghoejhixzjqhejuqhxahLnoockhOejghejhburjhoejthoej
fugqyjp,hugqhoulngbhoejhfjgpjs,htxrjqhpyxzychuzuchasxthoejtk

“Fughnohijhos j?”hoex beohYjrng,hugqhejhyxxljqhsx gqhuohenphisnqjk
Yxxlngbhqxzghuohejshejhpuzhejshaufjhnghmsxanyj,hugqhasxthoejhpfusfjyc
mjsfjmoniyjhw nrjshxahejshynmphugqhjcjyupejphejhlgjzhpejhzuphuzusjhxa
enphjcjph mxghejskhPejhqnqhgxohyxxlhsx gq,hi ohoejhenbehpfuyyxmjq
fxyyus,hoeuohsjufejqhejshynooyjhmnglhjus,hosjtiyjqhaungoyckhEjhpuzhoeuo
uhpnbehzuphejyqhiuflhnghejshoesxuo,hugqhoejhynooyjheugqhnghoejhyxgb
byxrjhpexxlhuphnohejyqhoejhfugqyjk

Uyyhoejha pphxahoejhpenso,hxahijngbhyuoj,huyyhoejhouylhxahasnjgqphugq
sjyuonxgp,hoejnshuggxcugfj,henphy qnfsx phmxpnonxg—uyyhp qqjgychmuppjq
uzuchugqhejhzuphanyyjqhznoeh.xchugqhqsjuqk

Oejheugqpxtj,hpouojychejuq-qjufxghzjusngbhuhpnyrjshsxijhugqhenphf syc
yxflphpougqngbhx ohuohjufehpnqjhxahenphejuq,hpojmmjqhptusoychaxszusq,
ugqhynaongbhenphpoxyjhxghozxhangbjsp,hpoxxqhxmmxpnojhoejhmsnjpok

“IyjppjqhijhoejhgutjhxahoejhYxsq,”hoejhpxyjtghpcyyuiyjphsugbhx ohpyxzyc
xgjhuaojshugxoejs,hpjoongbhoejhunshw nrjsngbhznoehzurjphxahpx gqk

“Iyjppjqhnphoejhgutjhxahx shBxq,hasxthoejhijbnggngb,hnphgxz,hugqhjrjs
peuyyhij,”hoejhynooyjhxyqhmsnjpohugpzjsjqhnghuhp itnppnrj,hmnmngb
rxnfj,hponyyhangbjsngbhpxtjoengbhuohoejhyjfojsgkhUgqhoejha yyhfexs phxa
oejh gpjjghfexnshsxpjh m,hanyyngbhoejhzexyjhfe sfe,hasxthoejhzngqxzphox
oejhru yojqhsxxa,hznoehisxuqhzurjphxahtjyxqckhNohbsjzhposxgbjs,hsjpojq
axshughngpougo,hugqhpyxzychqnjqhuzuck

Oejchmsucjq,huphoejchuyzucphqx,haxshmjufjhasxthxghenbehugqhaxs
puyruonxg,haxshoejhExychPcgxq,hugqhaxshoejhOpus;hoejchmsucjq,hoxx,haxs
oejhpjsrugophxahBxq,hLxgpougonghugqhJluojsngu,hgxzhmynbeongbhoejns
osxoek

“Rx fepuajhoxhoejthyxrjhtuqjhmjsajfo,hmjufjhugqhejym,hXhYxsq,hzj
ijpjjfehOejj,”hoejhzexyjhfe sfehpjjtjqhoxhisjuoejhznoehoejhrxnfjhxahoej
ejuqhqjufxgk

Yjrnghejusqhoejhzxsqp,hugqhoejchntmsjppjqhentkh“Exzhqnqhoejchb jpphoeuo
nohnphejym,h. pohejymhoeuohxgjhzugop?”hejhoex beo,hsjfuyyngbhuyyhenp
ajusphugqhqx iophxahyuojkh“ZeuohqxhNhlgxz?hzeuohfughNhqxhnghoenp
ajusa yhi pngjpp,”hejhoex beo,h“znoex ohejym?hCjp,hnohnphejymhNhzugo
gxzk”

ZejghoejhqjufxgheuqhangnpejqhoejhmsucjshaxshoejhNtmjsnuyhautnyc,hoej
msnjpoho sgjqhoxhoejhisnquyhmunshznoehuhixxl:h“JojsguyhBxq,hoeuo
.xngjpohoxbjoejshnghyxrjhoejthoeuohzjsjhpjmusuoj,”hejhsjuqhnghuhbjgoyj,
mnmngbhrxnfj:h“zexheupohxsqungjqhoejh gnxghxahexychzjqyxflhoeuohfuggxo
ijhpjohup gqjs,hOex hzexhqnqpohiyjpphNpuufhugqhSjijffuhugqhoejns
qjpfjgqugop,huffxsqngbhoxhOechExychFxrjgugo;hiyjpphOechpjsrugop,
LxgpougonghugqhJluojsngu,hyjuqngbhoejthnghoejhmuoehxahuyyhbxxqhzxslpk
Axshbsufnx phugqhtjsfna yhusohOex ,hx shYxsq,hugqhbyxschijhoxhOejj,hoej
Auoejs,hoejhPxg,hugqhoejhExychBexpo,hgxzhugqhjrjshpeuyyhijk”

“Utjg!”hoejh gpjjghfexnshpjgohsxyyngbhubungh mxghoejhunsk

“‘.xngjpohoxbjoejshnghyxrjhoejthoeuohzjsjhpjmusuojk’hZeuohqjjmhtjugngb
nghoexpjhzxsqp,hugqhexzhoejchfxssjpmxgqhznoehzeuohxgjhajjyphuohoenp
txtjgo,”hoex beohYjrngkh“NphpejhajjyngbhoejhputjhuphN?”

Ugqhyxxlngbhsx gq,hejhtjohejshjcjp,hugqhasxthoejnshjvmsjppnxghej
fxgfy qjqhoeuohpejhzuph gqjspougqngbhnoh. pohuphejhzupkhI ohoenphzuphu
tnpoulj;hpejhuytxpohfxtmyjojychtnppjqhoejhtjugngbhxahoejhzxsqphxahoej
pjsrnfj;hpejheuqhgxohejusqhoejt,hnghaufokhPejhfx yqhgxohynpojghoxhoejt
ugqhouljhoejthng,hpxhposxgbhzuphoejhxgjhajjyngbhoeuohanyyjqhejshisjupo
ugqhbsjzhposxgbjshugqhposxgbjskhOeuohajjyngbhzuph.xchuohoejhfxtmyjonxg
xahoejhmsxfjpphoeuohaxshoejhyupohtxgoehugqhuheuyaheuqhijjghbxngbhxghng
ejshpx y,hugqheuqhq sngbhoexpjhpnvhzjjlphijjghuh.xchugqhuhoxso sjhox
ejskhXghoejhquchzejghnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthxahoejhex pjhnghUsiuochPosjjo
pejheuqhbxgjh mhoxhenthnghejshisxzghqsjpp,hugqhbnrjghejspjyahoxhent
znoex ohuhzxsq—xghoeuohquc,huohoeuohex s,hoejsjhoxxlhmyufjhnghejshejuso
uhfxtmyjojhpjrjsugfjhasxthuyyhejshxyqhynaj,hugqhuhw nojhqnaajsjgo,hgjz,
 oojsychposugbjhynajheuqhijb ghaxshejs,hzenyjhoejhxyqhynajhzuphufo uyyc
bxngbhxghuphijaxsjkhOexpjhpnvhzjjlpheuqhaxshejshijjghuhontjhxahoej
 otxpohiynpphugqhoejh otxpohtnpjsckhUyyhejshynaj,huyyhejshqjpnsjphugq
exmjphzjsjhfxgfjgosuojqhxghoenphxgjhtug,hponyyh gfxtmsjejgqjqhichejs,
oxhzexthpejhzuphix gqhichuhajjyngbhxahuyojsguojhuoosufonxghugq
sjm ypnxg,hjrjghyjpphfxtmsjejgqjqhoeughoejhtughentpjya,hugqhuyyhoej
zenyjhpejhzuphbxngbhxghynrngbhnghoejhx ozusqhfxgqnonxgphxahejshxyq
ynajkhYnrngbhoejhxyqhynaj,hpejhzuphexssnanjqhuohejspjya,huohejsh oojs
ngp stx gouiyjhfuyyx pgjpphoxhuyyhejshxzghmupo,hoxhoengbp,hoxheuinop,
oxhoejhmjxmyjhpejheuqhyxrjq,hzexhyxrjqhejs—oxhejshtxoejs,hzexhzup
zx gqjqhichejshngqnaajsjgfj,hoxhejshlngq,hojgqjshauoejs,honyyhoejg
qjusjshoeughuyyhoejhzxsyqkhUohxgjhtxtjgohpejhzuphexssnanjqhuohoenp
ngqnaajsjgfj,huohugxoejshpejhsj.xnfjqhuohzeuoheuqhisx beohejshoxhoenp
ngqnaajsjgfjkhPejhfx yqhgxohasutjhuhoex beo,hgxohuhznpehumusohasxthynaj
znoehoenphtug;hi ohoenphgjzhynajhzuphgxohcjo,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohjrjg
mnfo sjhnohfyjusychoxhejspjyakhOejsjhzuphxgychugonfnmuonxg,hoejhqsjuq
ugqh.xchxahoejhgjzhugqhoejh glgxzgkhUgqhgxzhijexyq—ugonfnmuonxghugq
 gfjsoungochugqhsjtxspjhuohoejhuiugqxgtjgohxahoejhxyqhynaj—uyyhzup
jgqngb,hugqhoejhgjzhzuphijbnggngbkhOenphgjzhynajhfx yqhgxohi oheurj
ojssxsphaxshejshngjvmjsnjgfj;hi o,hojssniyjhxshgxo,hoejhfeugbjheuqhijjg
zsx beohpnvhzjjlphijaxsjhnghejshpx y,hugqhoenphzuphtjsjychoejhanguy
pugfonxghxahzeuoheuqhyxgbhijjghfxtmyjojqhnghejshejusok

O sgngbhubunghoxhoejhyjfojsg,hoejhmsnjpohznoehpxtjhqnaanf yochoxxl
Lnooc’phynooyjhsngb,hugqhuplngbhYjrnghaxshenpheugq,hm ohnohxghoejhanspo
.xngohxahenphangbjskh“OejhpjsrugohxahBxq,hLxgpougong,hmynbeophenphosxoe
oxhoejhpjsrugohxahBxq,hJluojsnguk”hUgqhm oongbhenphinbhsngbhxghLnooc’p
ox fengbychzjul,hmnglhynooyjhangbjs,hoejhmsnjpohpunqhoejhputjhoengbk

Ugqhoejhisnquyhmunshosnjqhpjrjsuyhontjphoxh gqjspougqhzeuohoejcheuqhox
qx,hugqhjufehontjhtuqjhpxtjhtnpouljhugqhzjsjhfxssjfojqhichoejhmsnjpohng
uhzenpmjskhUohyupo,heurngbhq ychmjsaxstjqhoejhfjsjtxgc,heurngbhpnbgjq
oejhsngbphznoehoejhfsxpp,hoejhmsnjpoheugqjqhLnoochoejhinbhsngb,hugq
YjrnghoejhynooyjhxgjkhUbunghoejchzjsjhm ddyjq,hugqhmuppjqhoejhsngbp
asxtheugqhoxheugq,hponyyhznoex ohqxngbhzeuohzuphjvmjfojqk

Qxyyc,hOfensnlxr,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpojmmjqhaxszusqhoxhpjohoejt
snbeokhOejsjhzuphughngojsruyhxahejpnouonxg,hzenpmjsngb,hugqhptnyjp;hi o
oejhjvmsjppnxghxahpxyjtghjtxonxghxghoejhaufjphxahoejhijosxoejqhmunshqnq
gxohfeugbj:hxghoejhfxgosusc,hnghoejnshmjsmyjvnochxrjshoejnsheugqphoejc
yxxljqhtxsjhbsurjhugqhqjjmychtxrjqhoeughijaxsj,hugqhoejhptnyjhznoe
zenfehPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzenpmjsjqhoxhoejthoeuohgxzhoejchzx yqhjufe
m ohxghoejnshxzghsngbhqnjqhuzuchxghenphynmpkhEjheuqhuhajjyngbhoeuohugc
ptnyjhzx yqh.ushxghoejtk

“Oex hzexhqnqpohasxthoejhijbnggngbhfsjuojhtuyjhugqhajtuyj,”hoejhmsnjpo
sjuqhuaojshoejhjvfeugbjhxahsngbp,h“asxthOejjhzxtughzuphbnrjghoxhtughox
ijhuhejymtjjohoxhent,hugqhaxshoejhmsxfsjuonxghxahfenyqsjgkhXhYxsq,hx s
Bxq,hzexheupohmx sjqhqxzghoejhiyjppngbphxahOechOs oehuffxsqngbhoxhOec
ExychFxrjgugoh mxghOechfexpjghpjsrugop,hx shauoejsp,hasxthbjgjsuonxghox
bjgjsuonxg,hiyjpphOechpjsrugophLxgpougonghugqhJluojsngu,hugqhtuljhoejns
osxoehaupohnghaunoe,hugqh gnxghxahejusop,hugqhos oe,hugqhyxrjkkkk”

Yjrnghajyohtxsjhugqhtxsjhoeuohuyyhenphnqjuphxahtussnubj,huyyhenphqsjutp
xahexzhejhzx yqhxsqjshenphynaj,hzjsjhtjsjhfenyqnpegjpp,hugqhoeuohnohzup
pxtjoengbhejheuqhgxoh gqjspoxxqhenoejsox,hugqhgxzh gqjspoxxqhyjpphoeug
jrjs,hoex behnohzuphijngbhmjsaxstjqh mxghentkhOejhy tmhnghenphoesxuo
sxpjhenbejshugqhenbejs,hojusphoeuohzx yqhgxohijhfejfljqhfutjhngoxhenp
jcjpk


Feumojsh5

Nghoejhfe sfehoejsjhzuphuyyhTxpfxz,huyyhoejhasnjgqphugqhsjyuonxgp;hugq
q sngbhoejhfjsjtxgchxahmynbeongbhosxoe,hnghoejhisnyynugoychynbeojq
fe sfe,hoejsjhzuphughngfjppugohayxzhxahqnpfsjjoychp iq jqhouylhnghoej
fnsfyjhxahbunychqsjppjqhzxtjghugqhbnsyp,hugqhtjghnghzenojhonjp,
asxflfxuop,hugqh gnaxstpkhOejhouylhzuphmsngfnmuyychljmoh mhichoejhtjg,
zenyjhoejhzxtjghzjsjhuipxsijqhnghzuofengbhjrjschqjounyhxahoejhfjsjtxgc,
zenfehuyzucphtjugphpxht fehoxhoejtk

Nghoejhynooyjhbsx mhgjusjpohoxhoejhisnqjhzjsjhejshozxhpnpojsp:hQxyyc,
ugqhoejhxoejshxgj,hoejhpjya-mxppjppjqhiju oc,hTuqutjhYrxru,hzexheuq
. pohussnrjqhasxthuisxuqk

“ZechnphnohTusnj’phnghynyuf,huphiuqhuphiyufl,huohuhzjqqngb?”hpunq
TuqutjhLxsp gplucuk

“Znoehejshfxtmyjvnxg,hno’phoejhxgjhpuyruonxg,”hsjpmxgqjqhTuqutj
Os ijoplucukh“Nhzxgqjshzechoejcheuqhoejhzjqqngbhnghoejhjrjgngb?hNo’p
ynljhpexm-mjxmyjkkkk”

“Pxht fehmsjoonjskhNhzuphtussnjqhnghoejhjrjgngbhoxxkkkk”hugpzjsjq
TuqutjhLxsp gplucu,hugqhpejhpnbejq,hsjtjtijsngbhexzhfeustngbhpejheuq
ijjghoeuohquc,hugqhexzhuip sqychnghyxrjhejshe piugqhzup,hugqhexz
qnaajsjgohnohuyyhzuphgxzk

“Oejchpuchnahugcxgj’phijpohtughtxsjhoeughojghontjp,hej’yyhgjrjshij
tussnjqkhNhzugojqhoxhijhaxshoejhojgoehontj,hi ohoejhmxpohzuphouljg,”
punqhFx gohPngnurnghoxhoejhmsjoochMsngfjpphOfeusplucu,hzexheuqhqjpnbgp
xghentk

MsngfjpphOfeusplucuhxgychugpzjsjqhznoehuhptnyjkhPejhyxxljqhuohLnooc,
oenglngbhexzhugqhzejghpejhzx yqhpougqhznoehFx gohPngnurnghnghLnooc’p
myufj,hugqhexzhpejhzx yqhsjtngqhenthoejghxahenph.xljhoxquck

Peofejsiuoplchoxyqhoejhxyqhtunqhxahexgxs,hTuqutjhGnlxyujru,hoeuohej
tjugohoxhm ohoejhfsxzghxghLnooc’phfenbgxghaxshy flk

“Pejhx beohgxohoxheurjhzxsghuhfenbgxg,”hugpzjsjqhTuqutjhGnlxyujru,hzex
euqhyxgbhubxhtuqjh mhejshtngqhoeuohnahoejhjyqjsychznqxzjshpejhzup
ugbyngbhaxshtussnjqhejs,hoejhzjqqngbhpex yqhijhxahoejhpntmyjpokh“N
qxg’ohynljhp fehbsugqj sk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphouylngbhoxhQuscuhQtnosnjrgu,h.jpongbychupp sngb
ejshoeuohoejhf poxthxahbxngbhuzuchuaojshoejhzjqqngbhzuphijfxtngbhfxttxg
ijfu pjhgjzychtussnjqhmjxmyjhuyzucphajyohuhynooyjhupeutjqhxa
oejtpjyrjpk

“Cx shisxoejshtuchajjyhmsx qhxahentpjyakhPej’phuhtusrjyhxahpzjjogjppkhN
ijynjrjhcx ’sjhjgrnx pk”

“Xe,hN’rjhbxohxrjshoeuo,hQuscuhQtnosnjrgu,”hejhugpzjsjq,hugqhu
tjyugfexychugqhpjsnx phjvmsjppnxghp qqjgychfutjhxrjshenphaufjk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphojyyngbhenphpnpojs-ng-yuzhenph.xljhuix o
qnrxsfjk

“Oejhzsjuoehzugophpjoongbhposunbeo,”hpejhugpzjsjq,hgxohejusngbhentk

“Zeuohuhmnochpej’phyxpohejshyxxlphpx,”hFx gojpphGxsqpoxghpunqhoxhTuqutj
Yrxrukh“Ponyyhej’phgxohzxsoehejshynooyjhangbjs,hnphej?”

“Xe,hNhynljhenthpx—gxohijfu pjhej’phtcha o sjh_iju -asèsj_,”hugpzjsjq
TuqutjhYrxrukh“Ugqhexzhzjyyhej’phijeurngb!hNo’phpxhqnaanf yo,hoxx,hox
yxxlhzjyyhnghp fehuhmxpnonxg,hgxohoxhijhsnqnf yx pkhUgqhej’phgxo
snqnf yx p,hugqhgxohuaajfojq;hxgjhfughpjjhej’phtxrjqk”

“Cx hjvmjfojqhno,hNhp mmxpj?”

“UytxpokhPejhuyzucphfusjqhaxshentk”

“Zjyy,hzjhpeuyyhpjjhzenfehxahoejthznyyhpojmhxghoejhs bhanspokhNhzusgjq
Lnoock”

“Nohznyyhtuljhgxhqnaajsjgfj,”hpunqhTuqutjhYrxru;h“zj’sjhuyyhxijqnjgo
znrjp;hno’phnghx shautnyck”

“Xe,hNhpojmmjqhxghoejhs bhijaxsjhRuppnychxghm smxpjkhUgqhcx ,hQxyyc?”

Qxyychpoxxqhijpnqjhoejt;hpejhejusqhoejt,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohugpzjskhPej
zuphqjjmychtxrjqkhOejhojusphpoxxqhnghejshjcjp,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxoheurj
pmxljghznoex ohfscngbkhPejhzuphsj.xnfngbhxrjshLnoochugqhYjrng;hbxngb
iuflhnghoex beohoxhejshxzghzjqqngb,hpejhbyugfjqhuohoejhsuqnugohanb sj
xahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,haxsbxohuyyhoejhmsjpjgo,hugqhsjtjtijsjqhxgychejs
xzghnggxfjgohyxrjkhPejhsjfuyyjqhgxohejspjyahxgyc,hi ohuyyhejs
zxtjg-asnjgqphugqhufw ungougfjpkhPejhoex beohxahoejthxghoejhxgjhquchxa
oejnshosn tme,hzejghoejcheuqhpoxxqhynljhLnooch gqjshoejhzjqqngbhfsxzg,
znoehyxrjhugqhexmjhugqhqsjuqhnghoejnshejusop,hsjgx gfngbhoejhmupo,hugq
pojmmngbhaxszusqhngoxhoejhtcpojsnx pha o sjkhUtxgbhoejhisnqjphoeuohfutj
iuflhoxhejshtjtxsc,hpejhoex beohoxxhxahejshqusyngbhUggu,hxahzexpj
msxmxpjqhqnrxsfjhpejheuqh. pohijjghejusngbkhUgqhpejheuqhpoxxqh. pohup
nggxfjgohnghxsugbjhayxzjsphugqhisnquyhrjnykhUgqhgxz?h“No’phojssniyc
posugbj,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyakhNohzuphgxohtjsjychoejhpnpojsp,hoej
zxtjg-asnjgqphugqhajtuyjhsjyuonxgphxahoejhisnqjhzexhzjsjhaxyyxzngb
jrjschqjounyhxahoejhfjsjtxgckhZxtjghzexhzjsjhw nojhposugbjsp,htjsj
pmjfouoxsp,hzjsjhzuofengbhnohjvfnojqyc,hexyqngbhoejnshisjuoe,hnghajus
xahyxpngbhuhpngbyjhtxrjtjgohxshjvmsjppnxghxahoejhisnqjhugqhisnqjbsxxt,
ugqhugbsnychgxohugpzjsngb,hxaojghgxohejusngb,hoejhsjtuslphxahoej
fuyyx phtjg,hzexhljmohtulngbh.xlngbhxshnssjyjrugohxipjsruonxgpk

“Zecheuphpejhijjghfscngb?hNphpejhijngbhtussnjqhubungpohejshznyy?”

“Ubungpohejshznyyhoxhuhangjhajyyxzhynljhoeuo?hUhmsngfj,hnpg’ohej?”

“Nphoeuohejshpnpojshnghoejhzenojhpuong?h. pohynpojghexzhoejhqjufxg
ixxtphx o,h‘Ugqhajusngbhejshe piugqk’”

“UsjhoejhfexsnpojsphasxthOfe qxrx?”

“Gx,hasxthoejhPcgxqk”

“NhupljqhoejhaxxotugkhEjhpucphej’phbxngbhoxhouljhejshextjhoxhenp
fx goschmyufjhuohxgfjkhUza yychsnfe,hoejchpuckhOeuo’phzechpej’phijngb
tussnjqhoxhentk”

“Gx,hoejc’sjhuhzjyy-tuofejqhmunsk”

“Nhpuc,hTuscuhRuppnynjrgu,hcx hzjsjhtulngbhx ohoexpjhayc-uzuc
fsngxyngjphzjsjhgxohijngbhzxsgkh. pohyxxlhuohejshnghoejhm fjhqsjpp—ug
utiuppuqxs’phznajhoejchpuchpejhnp—exzhejshplnsohix gfjphx ohasxthpnqj
oxhpnqj!”

“Zeuohuhmsjoochqjushoejhisnqjhnp—ynljhuhyutihqjfljqhznoehayxzjsp!hZjyy,
puchzeuohcx hznyy,hzjhzxtjghajjyhaxshx shpnpojsk”

P fehzjsjhoejhfxttjgophnghoejhfsxzqhxahbudngbhzxtjghzexheuqhp ffjjqjq
nghpynmmngbhnghuohoejhfe sfehqxxspk


Feumojsh6

Zejghoejhfjsjtxgchxahmynbeongbhosxoehzuphxrjs,hoejhijuqyjhpmsjuqhijaxsj
oejhyjfojsghnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhfe sfehuhmnjfjhxahmnglhpnyljghpo aa,
oejhfexnshpugbhuhfxtmynfuojqhugqhjyuixsuojhmpuyt,hnghzenfehoejhiupphugq
ojgxshpugbhsjpmxgpjphoxhxgjhugxoejs,hugqhoejhmsnjpoho sgngbhsx gq
mxngojqhoejhisnquyhmunshoxhoejhmnglhpnylhs bkhOex behixoeheuqhxaojg
ejusqhuhbsjuohqjuyhuix ohoejhpucngbhoeuohoejhxgjhzexhpojmphanspohxghoej
s bhznyyhijhoejhejuqhxahoejhex pj,hgjnoejshYjrnghgxshLnoochzjsjhfumuiyj
xahsjfxyyjfongbhno,huphoejchoxxlhoejhajzhpojmphoxzusqphnokhOejchqnqhgxo
ejushoejhyx qhsjtuslphugqhqnpm ojphoeuohaxyyxzjq,hpxtjhtungoungngbhej
euqhpojmmjqhxghanspo,hugqhxoejsphoeuohixoeheuqhpojmmjqhxghoxbjoejsk

Uaojshoejhf poxtuschw jponxgp,hzejoejshoejchqjpnsjqhoxhjgojsh mxg
tuosntxgc,hugqhzejoejshoejchzjsjhmyjqbjqhoxhugcxgjhjypj,hugqhoejns
ugpzjsp,hzenfehpx gqjqhposugbjhoxhoejtpjyrjp,huhgjzhfjsjtxgchijbugk
Lnoochynpojgjqhoxhoejhzxsqphxahoejhmsucjs,hoscngbhoxhtuljhx ohoejns
tjugngb,hi ohpejhfx yqhgxokhOejhajjyngbhxahosn tmehugqhsuqnugo
eummngjpphayxxqjqhejshpx yhtxsjhugqhtxsjhuphoejhfjsjtxgchzjgohxg,hugq
qjmsnrjqhejshxahuyyhmxzjshxahuoojgonxgk

Oejchmsucjq:h“Jgqxzhoejthznoehfxgongjgfjhugqhas noa ygjpp,hugq
rx fepuajhoeuohoejnshejusophtuchsj.xnfjhyxxlngbh mxghoejnshpxgphugq
qu beojspk”hOejchuyy qjqhoxhBxq’phfsjuonxghxahuhznajhasxthUqut’phsni
“ugqhaxshoenphfu pjhuhtughpeuyyhyjurjhauoejshugqhtxoejs,hugqhfyjurj
 goxhenphznaj,hugqhoejchozxhpeuyyhijhxgjhayjpe,”hugqhoeuoh“oenphnphu
bsjuohtcpojsc”;hoejchmsucjqhoeuohBxqhzx yqhtuljhoejthas noa yhugqhiyjpp
oejt,hynljhNpuufhugqhSjijffu,h.xpjme,hTxpjphugqhDnmmxsue,hugqhoeuohoejc
tnbeohyxxlh mxghoejnshfenyqsjg’phfenyqsjgkh“Oeuo’phuyyhpmyjgqnq,”
oex beohLnooc,hfuofengbhoejhzxsqp,h“uyyhoeuo’ph. pohuphnohpex yqhij,”
ugqhuhptnyjhxaheummngjpp,h gfxgpfnx pychsjayjfojqhnghjrjscxgjhzex
yxxljqhuohejs,hijutjqhxghejshsuqnugohaufjk

“M ohnohxghw noj,”hrxnfjphzjsjhejusqh sbngbhzejghoejhmsnjpoheuqhm ohxg
oejhzjqqngbhfsxzgphugqhPeofejsiuoplc,henpheugqhpeulngbhnghnop
oesjj-i ooxghbyxrj,hejyqhoejhfsxzghenbehuixrjhejshejuqk

“M ohnohxg!”hpejhzenpmjsjq,hptnyngbk

Yjrnghyxxljqhsx gqhuohejs,hugqhzuphpos flhichoejh.xca yhsuqnugfjhxghejs
aufj,hugqh gfxgpfnx pychejshajjyngbhngajfojqhentkhEjhoxx,hynljhejshajyo
byuqhugqheummck

Oejchjg.xcjqhejusngbhoejhjmnpoyjhsjuq,hugqhoejhsxyyhxahoejhejuq
qjufxg’phrxnfjhuohoejhyupohrjspj,huzunojqhznoehp fehntmuonjgfjhichoej
x opnqjhm iynfkhOejchjg.xcjqhqsnglngbhx ohxahoejhpeuyyxzhf mhxahzust
sjqhzngjhugqhzuojs,hugqhoejchzjsjhponyyhtxsjhmyjupjqhzejghoejhmsnjpo,
ayngbngbhiuflhenphpoxyjhugqhoulngbhixoehoejnsheugqphnghenp,hyjqhoejt
sx gqhoejhyjfojsghoxhoejhuffxtmugntjgohxahiupphrxnfjphfeugongbh“Byxsc
oxhBxqk”

PeofejsiuoplchugqhOfensnlxr,hp mmxsongbhoejhfsxzgphugqhpo tiyngbhxrjs
oejhisnqj’phosung,hptnyngbhoxxhugqhpjjtngbhqjynbeojqhuohpxtjoengb,hzjsj
uohxgjhtxtjgohyjaohijengq,huohoejhgjvohosjuqngbhxghoejhisnquyhmunshup
oejhmsnjpohfutjhoxhuheuyokhOejhpmuslhxah.xchlngqyjqhnghLnoochpjjtjqhox
eurjhngajfojqhjrjscxgjhnghoejhfe sfekhNohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohoej
msnjpohugqhoejhqjufxghoxxhzugojqhoxhptnyjh. pohuphejhqnqk

Oulngbhoejhfsxzgphxaahoejnshejuqphoejhmsnjpohsjuqhoejhyupohmsucjshugq
fxgbsuo yuojqhoejhcx gbhmjxmyjkhYjrnghyxxljqhuohLnooc,hugqhejheuqhgjrjs
ijaxsjhpjjghejshyxxlhuphpejhqnqkhPejhzuphfeustngbhznoehoejhgjzhsuqnugfj
xaheummngjpphnghejshaufjkhYjrnghyxgbjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengbhoxhejs,hi ohej
qnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshnohzuphuyyhxrjskhOejhmsnjpohbxohenthx ohxahenp
qnaanf yockhEjhptnyjqhenphlngqychptnyjhugqhpunqhbjgoyc,h“Lnpphcx s
znaj,hugqhcx hlnpphcx she piugq,”hugqhoxxlhoejhfugqyjphx ohxahoejns
eugqpk

Yjrnghlnppjqhejshptnyngbhynmphznoehontnqhfusj,hburjhejshenphust,hugq
znoehuhgjzhposugbjhpjgpjhxahfyxpjgjpp,hzuyljqhx ohxahoejhfe sfekhEjhqnq
gxohijynjrj,hejhfx yqhgxohijynjrj,hoeuohnohzuphos jkhNohzuphxgychzejg
oejnshzxgqjsngbhugqhontnqhjcjphtjohoeuohejhijynjrjqhnghno,hijfu pjhej
ajyohoeuohoejchzjsjhxgjk

Uaojshp mmjs,hoejhputjhgnbeo,hoejhcx gbhmjxmyjhyjaohaxshoejhfx gosck


Feumojsh7

RsxgplchugqhUgguheuqhijjghosurjyngbhaxshoesjjhtxgoephoxbjoejshng
J sxmjkhOejcheuqhrnpnojqhRjgnfj,hSxtj,hugqhGumyjp,hugqheuqh. pohussnrjq
uohuhptuyyhNouynughoxzghzejsjhoejchtjugohoxhpouchpxtjhontjkhUheugqpxtj
ejuqhzunojs,hznoehoenflhmxtuqjqheunshmusojqhasxthoejhgjflh mzusqp,hug
jrjgngbhfxuo,huhisxuqhzenojhfutisnfhpensohasxgo,hugqhuhi gfehxa
osngljopheugbngbhuixrjhenphsx gqjqhpoxtufe,hpoxxqhznoehenpheugqphnghoej
a yyhf srjhxahenphmxfljop,hyxxlngbhfxgojtmo x pychasxth gqjshenp
jcjynqphzenyjhejhburjhpxtjhasnbnqhsjmychoxhuhbjgoyjtughzexheuqhpoxmmjq
entkhFuofengbhoejhpx gqhxahaxxopojmphfxtngbhasxthoejhxoejshpnqjhxahoej
jgoschoxzusqphoejhpounsfupj,hoejhejuqhzunojsho sgjqhsx gq,hugqhpjjngb
oejhS ppnughfx go,hzexheuqhouljghoejnshijpohsxxtp,hejhoxxlhenpheugqp
x ohxahenphmxfljophqjajsjgonuyyc,hugqhznoehuhixzhngaxstjqhenthoeuohu
fx snjsheuqhijjg,hugqhoeuohoejhi pngjpphuix ohoejhmuyuddxheuqhijjg
ussugbjqkhOejhpojzusqhzuphmsjmusjqhoxhpnbghoejhubsjjtjgok

“Ue!hN’thbyuqhoxhejushno,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Nphtuqutjhuohextjhxshgxo?”

“Tuqutjheuphijjghx ohaxshuhzuylhi oheuphsjo sgjqhgxz,”hugpzjsjqhoej
zunojsk

Rsxgplchoxxlhxaahenphpxao,hznqj-isnttjqheuohugqhmuppjqhenpheugqljsfenja
xrjshenphejuojqhisxzhugqheuns,hzenfeheuqhbsxzgheuyahxrjshenphjusp,hugq
zuphis pejqhiuflhfxrjsngbhoejhiuyqhmuofehxghenphejuqkhUgqhbyugfngb
fup uyychuohoejhbjgoyjtug,hzexhponyyhpoxxqhoejsjhbudngbhngojgoychuo
ent,hejhzx yqheurjhbxgjhxgk

“OenphbjgoyjtughnphuhS ppnug,hugqhzuphngw nsngbhuaojshcx ,”hpunqhoej
ejuqhzunojsk

Znoehtngbyjqhajjyngbphxahuggxcugfjhuohgjrjshijngbhuiyjhoxhbjohuzuchasxt
ufw ungougfjphugczejsj,hugqhyxgbngbhoxhangqhpxtjhpxsohxahqnrjspnxghasxt
oejhtxgxoxgchxahenphynaj,hRsxgplchyxxljqhxgfjhtxsjhuohoejhbjgoyjtug,
zexheuqhsjosjuojqhugqhpoxxqhponyyhubung,hugqhuohoejhputjhtxtjgohuhynbeo
futjhngoxhoejhjcjphxahixoek

“Bxyjgnpeofejr!”

“Rsxgplc!”

NohsjuyychzuphBxyjgnpeofejr,huhfxtsuqjhxahRsxgplc’phnghoejhFxsmphxa
MubjpkhNghoejhfxsmphBxyjgnpeofejrheuqhijyxgbjqhoxhoejhynijsuyhmusoc;hej
yjaohoejhfxsmphznoex ohjgojsngbhoejhustc,hugqheuqhgjrjshouljghxaanfj
 gqjshoejhbxrjsgtjgokhRsxgplchugqhejheuqhbxgjhfxtmyjojychqnaajsjgohzucp
xghyjurngbhoejhfxsmp,hugqheuqhxgychtjohxgfjhpngfjk

UohoeuohtjjongbhRsxgplchmjsfjnrjqhoeuohBxyjgnpeofejrheuqhouljgh mhu
pxsohxahyxaoc,hngojyyjfo uyychynijsuyhyngj,hugqhzuphfxgpjw jgoyc
qnpmxpjqhoxhyxxlhqxzgh mxghRsxgplc’phngojsjpophugqhfuyyngbhnghynajk
EjgfjhRsxgplcheuqhtjohenthznoehoejhfenyyngbhugqheu beochtuggjshejhpx
zjyyhlgjzhexzhoxhupp tj,hoejhtjugngbhxahzenfehzup:h“Cx htuchynljhxs
qnpynljhtchzuchxahynaj,hoeuo’phuhtuoojshxahoejhtxpohmjsajfo
ngqnaajsjgfjhoxhtj;hcx hznyyheurjhoxhosjuohtjhznoehsjpmjfohnahcx hzugo
oxhlgxzhtjk”hBxyjgnpeofejrheuqhijjghfxgojtmo x pychngqnaajsjgohoxhoej
oxgjhouljghichRsxgplckhOenphpjfxgqhtjjongbhtnbeoheurjhijjghjvmjfojq,
xgjhzx yqheurjhp mmxpjq,hoxhjposugbjhoejthponyyhtxsjkhI ohgxzhoejc
ijutjqhugqhjvfyuntjqhznoehqjynbeohxghsjfxbgndngbhxgjhugxoejskhRsxgplc
zx yqhgjrjsheurjhjvmjfojqhoxhijhpxhmyjupjqhoxhpjjhBxyjgnpeofejr,hi o
msxiuiychejhzuphgxohentpjyahuzusjhexzhixsjqhejhzupkhEjhaxsbxohoej
qnpubsjjuiyjhntmsjppnxghxahoejnshyupohtjjongb,hugqhznoehuhaufjhxahasugl
qjynbeohejyqhx ohenpheugqhoxhenphxyqhfxtsuqjkhOejhputjhjvmsjppnxghxa
qjynbeohsjmyufjqhoejhyxxlhxah gjupngjpphxghBxyjgnpeofejr’phaufjk

“ExzhbyuqhNhuthoxhtjjohcx !”hpunqhRsxgplc,hpexzngbhenphposxgbhzenoj
ojjoehnghuhasnjgqychptnyjk

“NhejusqhoejhgutjhRsxgplc,hi ohNhqnqg’ohlgxzhzenfehxgjkhN’thrjsc,hrjsc
byuq!”

“Yjo’phbxhngkhFxtj,hojyyhtjhzeuohcx ’sjhqxngbk”

“N’rjhijjghynrngbhejsjhaxshozxhcjuspkhN’thzxslngbk”

“Ue!”hpunqhRsxgplc,hznoehpctmuoec;h“yjo’phbxhngk”hUgqhznoehoejheuino
fxttxghznoehS ppnugp,hngpojuqhxahpucngbhnghS ppnughzeuohejhzugojqhox
ljjmhasxthoejhpjsrugop,hejhijbughoxhpmjulhnghAsjgfek

“Qxhcx hlgxzhTuqutjhLusjgngu?hZjhusjhosurjyngbhoxbjoejskhNhuthbxngbhox
pjjhejshgxz,”hejhpunqhnghAsjgfe,hfusja yychpfs ongndngbhBxyjgnpeofejr’p
aufjk

“Ue!hNhqnqhgxohlgxz”h(oex behejhqnqhlgxz),hBxyjgnpeofejrhugpzjsjq
fusjyjppyckh“Eurjhcx hijjghejsjhyxgb?”hejhuqqjqk

“Ax shqucp,”hRsxgplchugpzjsjq,hxgfjhtxsjhpfs ongndngbhenphasnjgq’phaufj
ngojgoyck

“Cjp,hej’phuhqjfjgohajyyxz,hugqhznyyhyxxlhuohoejhoengbhmsxmjsyc,”
Rsxgplchpunqhoxhentpjya,hfuofengbhoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahBxyjgnpeofejr’p
aufjhugqhoejhfeugbjhxahp i.jfokh“Nhfughngosxq fjhenthoxhUggu,hejhyxxlp
uohnohmsxmjsyck”

Q sngbhoexpjhoesjjhtxgoephoeuohRsxgplcheuqhpmjgohuisxuqhznoehUggu,hej
euqhuyzucphxghtjjongbhgjzhmjxmyjhupljqhentpjyahexzhoejhgjzhmjspxghzx yq
yxxlhuohenphsjyuonxgphznoehUggu,hugqhaxshoejhtxpohmuso,hnghtjg,hejheuq
tjohznoehoejh“msxmjs”hzuchxahyxxlngbhuohnokhI ohnahejheuqhijjghupljq,
ugqhoexpjhzexhyxxljqhuohnoh“msxmjsyc”heuqhijjghupljq,hjvufoychexzhoejc
qnqhyxxlhuohno,hixoehejhugqhoejchzx yqheurjhijjghbsjuoychm ddyjqhox
ugpzjsk

Nghsjuynoc,hoexpjhzexhnghRsxgplc’phxmngnxgheuqhoejh“msxmjs”hrnjzheuqhgx
pxsohxahrnjzhuohuyy,hi ohijeurjqhnghbjgjsuyhuphzjyy-isjqhmjspxgphqx
ijeurjhnghsjbusqhoxhuyyhoejhfxtmyjvhugqhngpxy iyjhmsxiyjtphznoehzenfe
ynajhnphjgfxtmuppjqhxghuyyhpnqjp;hoejchijeurjqhznoehmsxmsnjoc,hurxnqngb
uyy pnxgphugqh gmyjupugohw jponxgpkhOejchupp tjqhughunshxaha yyc
fxtmsjejgqngbhoejhntmxsohugqhaxsfjhxahoejhpno uonxg,hxahuffjmongbhugq
jrjghummsxrngbhxahno,hi ohxahfxgpnqjsngbhnohp mjsay x phugqh gfuyyjq
axshoxhm ohuyyhoenphngoxhzxsqpk

RsxgplchuohxgfjhqnrngjqhoeuohBxyjgnpeofejrhzuphxahoenphfyupp,hugq
oejsjaxsjhzuphqx iychmyjupjqhoxhpjjhentkhUgqhnghaufo,hBxyjgnpeofejr’p
tuggjshoxhTuqutjhLusjgngu,hzejghejhzuphouljghoxhfuyyhxghejs,hzuphuyy
oeuohRsxgplchfx yqheurjhqjpnsjqkhXirnx pychznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohjaaxso
ejhpojjsjqhfyjushxahuyyhp i.jfophzenfehtnbeohyjuqhoxhjtiussupptjgok

EjheuqhgjrjshtjohUgguhijaxsj,hugqhzuphpos flhichejshiju oc,hugqhponyy
txsjhichoejhasuglgjpphznoehzenfehpejhuffjmojqhejshmxpnonxgkhPejhiy pejq
zejghRsxgplchisx beohnghBxyjgnpeofejr,hugqhejhzuphjvosjtjychfeustjqhic
oenphfenyqnpehiy pehxrjspmsjuqngbhejshfugqnqhugqheugqpxtjhaufjkhI o
zeuohejhynljqhmusonf yusychzuphoejhzuchnghzenfehuohxgfj,huphoex behxg
m smxpjhoeuohoejsjhtnbeohijhgxhtnp gqjspougqngbhznoehughx opnqjs,hpej
fuyyjqhRsxgplchpntmychUyjvjc,hugqhpunqhoejchzjsjhtxrngbhngoxhuhex pj
oejcheuqh. pohouljg,hzeuohzuphejsjhfuyyjqhuhmuyuddxkhBxyjgnpeofejr
ynljqhoenphqnsjfohugqhpntmyjhuoono qjhoxhejshxzghmxpnonxgkhYxxlngbhuo
Uggu’phtuggjshxahpntmyj-ejusojq,hpmnsnojqhbunjoc,hugqhlgxzngbhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehugqhRsxgplc,hBxyjgnpeofejrhaugfnjqhoeuohejh gqjspoxxq
ejshmjsajfoyckhEjhaugfnjqhoeuohejh gqjspoxxqhzeuohpejhzuph oojsyc
 guiyjhoxh gqjspougq:hexzhnohzuphoeuo,heurngbhtuqjhejshe piugq
zsjofejq,heurngbhuiugqxgjqhenthugqhejshpxghugqhyxpohejshbxxqhgutj,hpej
cjohajyoha yyhxahpmnsnop,hbunjoc,hugqheummngjppk

“No’phnghoejhb nqj-ixxl,”hpunqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hsjajssngbhoxhoejhmuyuddx
Rsxgplcheuqhouljgkh“Oejsj’phuhanspo-suojhOngoxsjooxhoejsjkhXgjhxahenp
yuojpohmjsnxqk”

“Nhojyyhcx hzeuo:hno’phuhyxrjychquc,hyjo’phbxhugqheurjhugxoejshyxxlhuo
no,”hpunqhRsxgplc,huqqsjppngbhUgguk

“Nhpeuyyhijhrjschbyuqhox;hN’yyhbxhugqhm ohxghtcheuokhZx yqhcx hpuchno’p
exo?”hpejhpunq,hpoxmmngbhpexsohnghoejhqxxszuchugqhyxxlngbhngw nsngbyc
uohRsxgplckhUgqhubunghuhrnrnqhay pehxrjspmsjuqhejshaufjk

Rsxgplchpuzhasxthejshjcjphoeuohpejhqnqhgxohlgxzhxghzeuohojstphejhfusjq
oxhijhznoehBxyjgnpeofejr,hugqhpxhzuphuasunqhxahgxohijeurngbhuphejhzx yq
znpek

Ejhyxxljqhuhyxgb,hojgqjshyxxlhuohejsk

“Gx,hgxohrjsc,”hejhpunqk

Ugqhnohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuohpejh gqjspoxxqhjrjscoengb,htxpohxahuyy,hoeuo
ejhzuphmyjupjqhznoehejs;hugqhptnyngbhoxhent,hpejhzuyljqhznoehejshsumnq
pojmhx ohuohoejhqxxsk

Oejhasnjgqphbyugfjqhuohxgjhugxoejs,hugqhuhyxxlhxahejpnouonxghfutjhngox
ixoehaufjp,huphoex behBxyjgnpeofejr,h gtnpouluiychuqtnsngbhejs,hzx yq
eurjhynljqhoxhpuchpxtjoengbhuix ohejs,hugqhfx yqhgxohangqhoejhsnbeo
oengbhoxhpuc,hzenyjhRsxgplchqjpnsjqhugqhqsjuqjqhenphqxngbhpxk

“Zjyyhoejg,”hRsxgplchijbughoxhpousohuhfxgrjspuonxghxahpxtjhpxso;h“px
cx ’sjhpjooyjqhejsj?hCx ’sjhponyyhuohoejhputjhzxsl,hoejg?”hejhzjgohxg,
sjfuyyngbhoeuohejheuqhijjghoxyqhBxyjgnpeofejrhzuphzsnongbhpxtjoengbk

“Cjp,hN’thzsnongbhoejhpjfxgqhmusohxahoejh_OzxhJyjtjgop_,”hpunq
Bxyjgnpeofejr,hfxyxsngbhznoehmyjup sjhuohoejhw jponxg—“oeuohnp,hoxhij
jvufo,hNhuthgxohzsnongbhnohcjo;hNhuthmsjmusngb,hfxyyjfongbhtuojsnuypk
Nohznyyhijhxahaushznqjshpfxmj,hugqhznyyhox fehxghuytxpohuyyhw jponxgpk
ZjhnghS ppnuhsja pjhoxhpjjhoeuohzjhusjhoejhejnsphxahIcdugon t,”hugqhej
yu gfejqhngoxhuhyxgbhugqhejuojqhjvmyuguonxghxahenphrnjzpk

Rsxgplchuohoejhanspohtxtjgohajyohjtiussuppjqhuohgxohjrjghlgxzngbhxahoej
anspohmusohxahoejh_OzxhJyjtjgop_,hxahzenfehoejhu oexshpmxljhup
pxtjoengbhzjyyhlgxzgkhI ohuphBxyjgnpeofejrhijbughoxhyuchqxzghenp
xmngnxgphugqhRsxgplchzuphuiyjhoxhaxyyxzhoejthjrjghznoex ohlgxzngbhoej
_OzxhJyjtjgop_,hejhynpojgjqhoxhenthznoehpxtjhngojsjpo,haxs
BxyjgnpeofejrhpmxljhzjyykhI ohRsxgplchzuphpousoyjqhugqhuggxcjqhichoej
gjsrx phnsupfninynochznoehzenfehBxyjgnpeofejrhouyljqhxahoejhp i.jfo
oeuohjgbsxppjqhentkhUphejhzjgohxghouylngb,henphjcjphbynoojsjqhtxsjhugq
txsjhugbsnyc;hejhzuphtxsjhugqhtxsjhe ssnjqhnghenphsjmynjphoxhntubngusc
xmmxgjgop,hugqhenphaufjhbsjzhtxsjhugqhtxsjhjvfnojqhugqhzxssnjqk
SjtjtijsngbhBxyjgnpeofejr,huhoeng,hynrjyc,hbxxq-guo sjqhugqhzjyy-isjq
ixc,huyzucphuohoejhejuqhxahoejhfyupp,hRsxgplchfx yqhgxohtuljhx ohoej
sjupxghxahenphnssnouinynoc,hugqhejhqnqhgxohynljhnokhZeuohej
musonf yusychqnpynljqhzuphoeuohBxyjgnpeofejr,huhtughijyxgbngbhoxhuhbxxq
pjo,hpex yqhm ohentpjyahxghuhyjrjyhznoehpxtjhpfsniiyngbhajyyxzp,hznoe
zexthejhzuphnssnouojqhugqhugbsckhZuphnohzxsoehno?hRsxgplchqnpynljqhno,
cjohejhajyohoeuohBxyjgnpeofejrhzuph geummc,hugqhzuphpxsschaxshentk
 geummngjpp,huytxpohtjgouyhqjsugbjtjgo,hzuphrnpniyjhxghenphtxinyj,
suoejsheugqpxtjhaufj,hzenyjhznoex ohjrjghgxonfngbhUggu’phfxtngbhng,hej
zjgohxghe ssnjqychugqhexoychjvmsjppngbhenphrnjzpk

ZejghUgguhfutjhnghnghejsheuohugqhfumj,hugqhejshyxrjycheugqhsumnqyc
pzngbngbhejshmusupxy,hugqhpoxxqhijpnqjhent,hnohzuphznoehuhajjyngbhxa
sjynjahoeuohRsxgplchisxljhuzuchasxthoejhmyungonrjhjcjphxahBxyjgnpeofejr
zenfehaupojgjqhmjspnpojgoych mxghent,hugqhznoehuhasjpehs pehxahyxrj
yxxljqhuohenphfeustngbhfxtmugnxg,ha yyhxahynajhugqheummngjppk
Bxyjgnpeofejrhsjfxrjsjqhentpjyahznoehughjaaxso,hugqhuohanspohzup
qj.jfojqhugqhbyxxtc,hi ohUggu,hqnpmxpjqhoxhajjyhasnjgqychznoehjrjscxgj
uphpejhzuphuohoeuohontj,hpxxghsjrnrjqhenphpmnsnophichejshqnsjfohugq
ynrjychtuggjskhUaojshoscngbhrusnx php i.jfophxahfxgrjspuonxg,hpejhbxo
enth mxghmungongb,hxahzenfehejhouyljqhrjschzjyy,hugqhpejhynpojgjqhox
enthuoojgonrjyckhOejchzuyljqhoxhoejhex pjhoejcheuqhouljg,hugqhyxxljq
xrjshnok

“Nhuthrjschbyuqhxahxgjhoengb,”hpunqhUgguhoxhBxyjgnpeofejrhzejghoejc
zjsjhxghoejnshzuchiufl,h“Uyjvjchznyyheurjhuhfumnouyh_uojynjs_khCx ht po
fjsoungychouljhoeuohsxxt,”hpejhpunqhoxhRsxgplchnghS ppnug,h pngbhoej
uaajfonxguojychautnynushaxsthuphoex behpejhpuzhoeuohBxyjgnpeofejrhzx yq
ijfxtjhngontuojhznoehoejthnghoejnshnpxyuonxg,hugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgx
gjjqhxahsjpjsrjhijaxsjhentk

“Qxhcx hmungo?”hpunqhBxyjgnpeofejr,ho sgngbhsx gqhw nflychoxhRsxgplck

“Cjp,hNh pjqhoxhpo qchyxgbhubx,hugqhgxzhNheurjhijb ghoxhqxhuhynooyj,”
punqhRsxgplc,hsjqqjgngbk

“Ejheuphbsjuohouyjgo,”hpunqhUgguhznoehuhqjynbeojqhptnyjkh“N’thgxh. qbj,
xahfx spjkhI ohbxxqh. qbjpheurjhpunqhoejhputjk”


Feumojsh8

Uggu,hnghoeuohanspohmjsnxqhxahejshjtugfnmuonxghugqhsumnqhsjo sghox
ejuyoe,hajyohejspjyah gmusqxguiycheummchugqha yyhxahoejh.xchxahynajk
Oejhoex beohxahejshe piugq’ph geummngjpphqnqhgxohmxnpxghejsheummngjppk
Xghxgjhpnqjhoeuohtjtxschzuphoxxhuza yhoxhijhoex beohxakhXghoejhxoejs
pnqjhejshe piugq’ph geummngjppheuqhbnrjghejshoxxht feheummngjpphoxhij
sjbsjoojqkhOejhtjtxschxahuyyhoeuoheuqheummjgjqhuaojshejshnyygjpp:hejs
sjfxgfnynuonxghznoehejshe piugq,hnophisjulqxzg,hoejhgjzphxahRsxgplc’p
zx gq,henphrnpno,hoejhmsjmusuonxgphaxshqnrxsfj,hoejhqjmuso sjhasxthejs
e piugq’phex pj,hoejhmusongbhasxthejshpxg—uyyhoeuohpjjtjqhoxhejshynljhu
qjynsnx phqsjut,hasxthzenfehpejheuqhzuljqh mhuyxgjhznoehRsxgplchuisxuqk
Oejhoex beohxahoejheusthfu pjqhoxhejshe piugqhusx pjqhnghejshuhajjyngb
ynljhsjm ypnxg,hugqhulnghoxhzeuohuhqsxzgngbhtughtnbeohajjyhzexheup
peuljghxaahugxoejshtughfyngbngbhoxhentkhOeuohtughqnqhqsxzgkhNohzuphug
jrnyhufonxg,hxahfx spj,hi ohnohzuphoejhpxyjhtjugphxahjpfumj,hugqhijoojs
gxohoxhisxxqhxrjshoejpjhajusa yhaufopk

Xgjhfxgpxyuoxschsjayjfonxgh mxghejshfxgq foheuqhxff ssjqhoxhejshuohoej
anspohtxtjgohxahoejhanguyhs mo sj,hugqhzejghgxzhpejhsjfuyyjqhuyyhoej
mupo,hpejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohxgjhsjayjfonxgkh“Nheurjhngjrnouiychtuqjhoeuo
tughzsjofejq,”hpejhoex beo;h“i ohNhqxg’ohzugohoxhmsxanohichenphtnpjsck
Nhoxxhuthp aajsngb,hugqhpeuyyhp aajs;hNhuthyxpngbhzeuohNhmsndjqhuixrj
jrjscoengb—NhuthyxpngbhtchbxxqhgutjhugqhtchpxgkhNheurjhqxgjhzsxgb,hugq
pxhNhqxg’ohzugoheummngjpp,hNhqxg’ohzugohuhqnrxsfj,hugqhpeuyyhp aajs
asxthtchpeutjhugqhoejhpjmusuonxghasxthtchfenyqk”hI o,hexzjrjshpngfjsjyc
Ugguheuqhtjugohoxhp aajs,hpejhzuphgxohp aajsngbkhPeutjhoejsjhzuphgxok
Znoehoejhoufohxahzenfehixoeheuqhp fehuhyusbjhpeusj,hoejcheuqhp ffjjqjq
nghurxnqngbhS ppnughyuqnjphuisxuq,hugqhpxheuqhgjrjshmyufjqhoejtpjyrjp
nghuhauypjhmxpnonxg,hugqhjrjsczejsjhoejcheuqhtjohmjxmyjhzexhmsjojgqjq
oeuohoejchmjsajfoych gqjspoxxqhoejnshmxpnonxg,haushijoojshngqjjqhoeug
oejchqnqhoejtpjyrjpkhPjmusuonxghasxthoejhpxghpejhyxrjq—jrjghoeuohqnq
gxohfu pjhejshugb npehnghoejpjhjusychqucpkhOejhiuichbnsy—_enp_
fenyq—zuphpxhpzjjo,hugqheuqhpxhzxghUggu’phejuso,hpngfjhpejhzuphuyyhoeuo
zuphyjaohejs,hoeuohUgguhsusjychoex beohxahejshpxgk

Oejhqjpnsjhaxshynaj,hzuvngbhposxgbjshznoehsjfxrjsjqhejuyoe,hzuphpx
ngojgpj,hugqhoejhfxgqnonxgphxahynajhzjsjhpxhgjzhugqhmyjupugo,hoeuohUggu
ajyoh gmusqxguiycheummckhOejhtxsjhpejhbxohoxhlgxzhRsxgplc,hoejhtxsjhpej
yxrjqhentkhPejhyxrjqhenthaxshentpjya,hugqhaxshenphyxrjhaxshejskhEjs
fxtmyjojhxzgjspenmhxahenthzuphuhfxgong uyh.xchoxhejskhEnphmsjpjgfjhzup
uyzucphpzjjohoxhejskhUyyhoejhosunophxahenphfeusufojs,hzenfehpejhyjusgjq
oxhlgxzhijoojshugqhijoojs,hzjsjh g oojsuiychqjushoxhejskhEnp
ummjusugfj,hfeugbjqhichenphfnrnynughqsjpp,hzuphuphaupfnguongbhoxhejshup
oex behpejhzjsjhpxtjhcx gbhbnsyhnghyxrjkhNghjrjscoengbhejhpunq,
oex beo,hugqhqnq,hpejhpuzhpxtjoengbhmusonf yusychgxiyjhugqhjyjruojqk
Ejshuqxsuonxghxahenthuyustjqhejshngqjjq;hpejhpx beohugqhfx yqhgxohangq
nghenthugcoengbhgxohangjkhPejhqusjqhgxohpexzhenthejshpjgpjhxahejshxzg
ngpnbgnanfugfjhijpnqjhentkhNohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuo,hlgxzngbhoenp,hej
tnbeohpxxgjshfjupjhoxhyxrjhejs;hugqhpejhqsjuqjqhgxoengbhgxzhpxht fehup
yxpngbhenphyxrj,hoex behpejheuqhgxhbsx gqphaxshajusngbhnokhI ohpej
fx yqhgxohejymhijngbhbsuoja yhoxhenthaxshenphuoono qjhoxhejs,hugq
pexzngbhoeuohpejhummsjfnuojqhnokhEj,hzexheuqhnghejshxmngnxghp fehu
tusljqhumono qjhaxshuhmxynonfuyhfusjjs,hnghzenfehejhzx yqheurjhijjg
fjsounghoxhmyuchuhyjuqngbhmuso—ejheuqhpufsnanfjqhenphutinonxghaxshejs
pulj,hugqhgjrjshijosucjqhoejhpynbeojpohsjbsjokhEjhzuphtxsjhyxrngbyc
sjpmjfoa yhoxhejshoeughjrjs,hugqhoejhfxgpougohfusjhoeuohpejhpex yqhgxo
ajjyhoejhuzlzusqgjpphxahejshmxpnonxghgjrjshqjpjsojqhenthaxshuhpngbyj
ngpougokhEj,hpxhtugychuhtug,hgjrjshxmmxpjqhejs,heuqhngqjjq,hznoehejs,
gxhznyyhxahenphxzg,hugqhzuphugvnx p,hnohpjjtjq,haxshgxoengbhi ohox
ugonfnmuojhejshznpejpkhUgqhpejhfx yqhgxohi ohummsjfnuojhoenp,hjrjg
oex behoejhrjschngojgpnochxahenphpxynfno qjhaxshejs,hoejhuotxpmejsjhxa
fusjhznoehzenfehejhp ssx gqjqhejs,hpxtjontjphzjnbejqh mxghejsk

Rsxgplc,htjugzenyj,hnghpmnojhxahoejhfxtmyjojhsjuynduonxghxahzeuohejheuq
pxhyxgbhqjpnsjq,hzuphgxohmjsajfoycheummckhEjhpxxghajyohoeuohoej
sjuynduonxghxahenphqjpnsjphburjhenthgxhtxsjhoeughuhbsunghxahpugqhx ohxa
oejhtx gounghxaheummngjpphejheuqhjvmjfojqkhNohpexzjqhenthoejhtnpoulj
tjghtuljhnghmnfo sngbhoxhoejtpjyrjpheummngjpphuphoejhsjuynduonxghxa
oejnshqjpnsjpkhAxshuhontjhuaojsh.xngngbhenphynajhoxhejsp,hugqhm oongb
xghfnrnynughqsjpp,hejheuqhajyohuyyhoejhqjynbeohxahasjjqxthnghbjgjsuyhxa
zenfehejheuqhlgxzghgxoengbhijaxsj,hugqhxahasjjqxthnghenphyxrj,—ugqhej
zuphfxgojgo,hi ohgxohaxshyxgbkhEjhzuphpxxghuzusjhoeuohoejsjhzup
pmsngbngbh mhnghenphejusohuhqjpnsjhaxshqjpnsjp—_jgg n_khZnoex o
fxgpfnx phngojgonxghejhijbughoxhfy ofehuohjrjschmuppngbhfumsnfj,houlngb
nohaxshuhqjpnsjhugqhughxi.jfokhPnvojjghex sphxahoejhqucht pohij
xff mnjqhnghpxtjhzuc,hpngfjhoejchzjsjhynrngbhuisxuqhnghfxtmyjoj
asjjqxt,hx opnqjhoejhfxgqnonxgphxahpxfnuyhynajhzenfehanyyjqh mhontjhng
Mjojspi sbkhUphaxshoejhut pjtjgophxahiufejyxshjvnpojgfj,hzenfeheuq
msxrnqjqhRsxgplchznoehjgojsoungtjgohxghmsjrnx phox sphuisxuq,hoejc
fx yqhgxohijhoex beohxa,hpngfjhoejhpxyjhuoojtmohxahoejhpxsoheuqhyjqhox
uhp qqjghuoouflhxahqjmsjppnxghnghUggu,hw nojhx ohxahmsxmxsonxghznoehoej
fu pj—uhyuojhp mmjshznoehiufejyxshasnjgqpkhSjyuonxgphznoehoejhpxfnjoc
xahoejhmyufj—axsjnbghugqhS ppnug—zjsjhjw uyychx ohxahoejhw jponxghxzngb
oxhoejhnssjb yusnochxahoejnshmxpnonxgkhOejhngpmjfonxghxahxi.jfophxa
ngojsjpo,humusohasxthoejhaufohoeuohjrjscoengbheuqhijjghpjjghuysjuqc,
euqhgxohaxshRsxgplc,huhS ppnughugqhuhpjgpniyjhtug,hoejhnttjgpj
pnbgnanfugfjhJgbynpetjghusjhuiyjhoxhuooufehoxhoeuohm sp nok

Ugqh. pohuphoejhe gbschpoxtufehjubjsychuffjmophjrjschxi.jfohnohfughbjo,
exmngbhoxhangqhgx snpetjgohnghno,hRsxgplchw nojh gfxgpfnx pychfy ofejq
anspohuohmxynonfp,hoejghuohgjzhixxlp,hugqhoejghuohmnfo sjpk

Uphejheuqhasxthuhfenyqhuhoupojhaxshmungongb,hugqhup,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuo
oxhpmjgqhenphtxgjchxg,hejheuqhijb ghfxyyjfongbhjgbsurngbp,hejhfutjhoxhu
poxmhuohmungongb,hijbughoxhouljhngojsjpohnghno,hugqhfxgfjgosuojqh mxg
nohoejh gxff mnjqhtupphxahqjpnsjphzenfehqjtugqjqhpuonpaufonxgk

Ejheuqhuhsjuqchummsjfnuonxghxahuso,hugqhmsxiuiyc,hznoehuhoupojhaxs
ntnouongbhuso,hejhp mmxpjqhentpjyahoxheurjhoejhsjuyhoengbhjppjgonuyhaxs
ughusonpo,hugqhuaojshejpnouongbhaxshpxtjhontjhzenfehpocyjhxahmungongb
oxhpjyjfo—sjynbnx p,henpoxsnfuy,hsjuynponf,hxshbjgsjhmungongb—ejhpjohox
zxslhoxhmungokhEjhummsjfnuojqhuyyhlngqp,hugqhfx yqheurjhajyohngpmnsjq
ichugcxgjhxahoejt;hi ohejheuqhgxhfxgfjmonxghxahoejhmxppninynochxa
lgxzngbhgxoengbhuohuyyhxahugchpfexxyhxahmungongb,hugqhxahijngbhngpmnsjq
qnsjfoychichzeuohnphznoenghoejhpx y,hznoex ohfusngbhzejoejshzeuohnp
mungojqhznyyhijyxgbhoxhugchsjfxbgndjqhpfexxykhPngfjhejhlgjzhgxoengbhxa
oenp,hugqhqsjzhenphngpmnsuonxg,hgxohqnsjfoychasxthynaj,hi ohngqnsjfoyc
asxthynajhjtixqnjqhnghuso,henphngpmnsuonxghfutjhrjschw nflychugq
jupnyc,hugqhuphw nflychugqhjupnychfutjhenphp ffjpphnghmungongb
pxtjoengbhrjschpntnyushoxhoejhpxsohxahmungongbhejhzuphoscngbhox
ntnouojk

TxsjhoeughugchxoejshpocyjhejhynljqhoejhAsjgfe—bsufja yhugq
jaajfonrj—ugqhnghoeuohpocyjhejhijbughoxhmungohUggu’phmxsosunohng
Nouynughfxpo tj,hugqhoejhmxsosunohpjjtjqhoxhent,hugqhoxhjrjscxgjhzex
puzhno,hjvosjtjychp ffjppa yk


Feumojsh9

Oejhxyqhgjbyjfojqhmuyuddx,hznoehnophyxaochfusrjqhfjnyngbphugqhasjpfxjp
xghoejhzuyyp,hznoehnophayxxsphxahtxpunf,hznoehnophejurchcjyyxzhpo aa
f soungphxghoejhzngqxzp,hznoehnophrupjphxghmjqjpouyp,hugqhnophxmjg
ansjmyufjp,hnophfusrjqhqxxsphugqhbyxxtchsjfjmonxghsxxtp,he gbhznoe
mnfo sjp—oenphmuyuddxhqnqht fe,hichnophrjschummjusugfjhuaojshoejcheuq
txrjqhngoxhno,hoxhfxgansthnghRsxgplchoejhubsjjuiyjhnyy pnxghoeuohejhzup
gxohpxht fehuhS ppnughfx goschbjgoyjtug,huhsjonsjqhustchxaanfjs,huphug
jgynbeojgjqhutuoj shugqhmuosxghxahoejhusop,hentpjyahuhtxqjpohusonpohzex
euqhsjgx gfjqhoejhzxsyq,henphfxggjfonxgp,hugqhenphutinonxghaxshoejhpulj
xahoejhzxtughejhyxrjqk

OejhmxpjhfexpjghichRsxgplchznoehoejnshsjtxruyhngoxhoejhmuyuddxhzup
fxtmyjojychp ffjppa y,hugqheurngb,hoesx behBxyjgnpeofejr,htuqj
ufw ungougfjhznoehuhajzhngojsjpongbhmjxmyj,haxshuhontjhejhzup
puonpanjqkhEjhmungojqhpo qnjphasxthguo sjh gqjshoejhb nqugfjhxahug
Nouynughmsxajppxshxahmungongb,hugqhpo qnjqhtjqnæruyhNouynughynajk
TjqnæruyhNouynughynajhpxhaupfnguojqhRsxgplchoeuohejhjrjghzxsjhuheuohugq
ay gbhuhfyxulhxrjshenphpex yqjshnghoejhtjqnæruyhpocyj,hzenfe,hngqjjq,
zuphjvosjtjychijfxtngbhoxhentk

“Ejsjhzjhynrj,hugqhlgxzhgxoengbhxahzeuo’phbxngbhxg,”hRsxgplchpunqhox
Bxyjgnpeofejrhuphejhfutjhoxhpjjhenthxgjhtxsgngbkh“Eurjhcx hpjjg
Tneunyxr’phmnfo sj?”hejhpunq,heugqngbhenthuhS ppnughbudjoojhejheuq
sjfjnrjqhoeuohtxsgngb,hugqhmxngongbhoxhughusonfyjhxghuhS ppnughusonpo,
ynrngbhnghoejhrjschputjhoxzg,hugqh. pohangnpengbhuhmnfo sjhzenfeheuq
yxgbhijjghouyljqhuix o,hugqheuqhijjghix beohijaxsjeugqkhOejhusonfyj
sjmsxufejqhoejhbxrjsgtjgohugqhoejhufuqjtchaxshyjoongbhpxhsjtusluiyjhug
usonpohijhyjaohznoex ohjgfx subjtjgohugqhp mmxsok

“N’rjhpjjghno,”hugpzjsjqhBxyjgnpeofejrkh“Xahfx spj,hej’phgxohznoex o
ouyjgo,hi ohno’phuyyhnghuhzsxgbhqnsjfonxgkhNo’phuyyhoej
Nrugxr-Posu pp-Sjgughuoono qjhoxhFesnpohugqhoxhsjynbnx phmungongbk”

“Zeuohnphoejhp i.jfohxahoejhmnfo sj?”hupljqhUgguk

“FesnpohijaxsjhMnyuojkhFesnpohnphsjmsjpjgojqhuphuh.jzhznoehuyyhoej
sjuynpthxahoejhgjzhpfexxyk”

Ugqhoejhw jponxghxahoejhp i.jfohxahoejhmnfo sjheurngbhisx beohenthox
xgjhxahenphaurxsnojhoejxsnjp,hBxyjgnpeofejrhyu gfejqhaxsoehngoxhu
qnpw npnonxghxghnok

“Nhfug’oh gqjspougqhexzhoejchfughauyyhngoxhp fehuhbsxpphtnpouljkhFesnpo
uyzucpheuphEnphqjangnojhjtixqntjgohnghoejhusohxahoejhbsjuohtupojspkhUgq
oejsjaxsj,hnahoejchzugohoxhqjmnfo,hgxohBxq,hi ohuhsjrxy onxgnpohxshu
pubj,hyjohoejthouljhasxthenpoxschuhPxfsuojp,huhAsuglyng,huhFeusyxooj
Fxsquc,hi ohgxohFesnpokhOejchouljhoejhrjschanb sjhzenfehfuggxohijhouljg
axshoejnshuso,hugqhoejgkkkk”

“Ugqhnphnohos jhoeuohoenphTneunyxrhnphnghp fehmxrjsoc?”hupljqhRsxgplc,
oenglngbhoeuo,huphuhS ppnughTæfjgup,hnohzuphenphq ochoxhuppnpohoej
usonpohsjbusqyjpphxahzejoejshoejhmnfo sjhzjsjhbxxqhxshiuqk

“Nhpex yqhpuchgxokhEj’phuhsjtusluiyjhmxsosuno-mungojskhEurjhcx hjrjs
pjjghenphmxsosunohxahTuqutjhRuppnyofenlxru?hI ohNhijynjrjhejhqxjpg’o
fusjhuix ohmungongbhugchtxsjhmxsosunop,hugqhpxhrjschynljychejhnphng
zugokhNhtungounghoeuokkkk”

“Fx yqg’ohzjhuplhenthoxhmungohuhmxsosunohxahUgguhUsluqcjrgu?”hpunq
Rsxgplck

“Zechtngj?”hpunqhUggukh“Uaojshcx sphNhqxg’ohzugohugxoejshmxsosunok
IjoojsheurjhxgjhxahUggnj”h(pxhpejhfuyyjqhejshiuichbnsy)kh“Ejsjhpejhnp,”
pejhuqqjq,hyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhuohoejheugqpxtjhNouynughg spj,hzex
zuphfusscngbhoejhfenyqhx ohngoxhoejhbusqjg,hugqhnttjqnuojychbyugfngb
 ggxonfjqhuohRsxgplckhOejheugqpxtjhg spj,hasxthzexthRsxgplchzup
mungongbhuhejuqhaxshenphmnfo sj,hzuphoejhxgjhenqqjghbsnjahnghUggu’p
ynajkhEjhmungojqhznoehejshuphenphtxqjy,huqtnsjqhejshiju ochugq
tjqnæruynpt,hugqhUgguhqusjqhgxohfxgajpphoxhejspjyahoeuohpejhzuphuasunq
xahijfxtngbh.juyx phxahoenphg spj,hugqhzuphaxshoeuohsjupxghmusonf yusyc
bsufnx phugqhfxgqjpfjgqngbhixoehoxhejshugqhejshynooyjhpxgkhRsxgplc,
oxx,hbyugfjqhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhugqhngoxhUggu’phjcjp,hugq,ho sgngbhuo
xgfjhoxhBxyjgnpeofejr,hejhpunq:

“Qxhcx hlgxzhoenphTneunyxr?”

“NheurjhtjohentkhI ohej’phuhw jjshanpe,hugqhw nojhznoex ohisjjqngbkhCx 
lgxz,hxgjhxahoexpjh gfx oehgjzhmjxmyjhxgj’phpxhxaojghfxtngbhufsxpp
gxzuqucp,hxgjhxahoexpjhasjj-oengljsphcx hlgxz,hzexhusjhsjusjq
_q’jtiyéj_hnghoejxsnjphxahuoejnpt,hpfjmonfnpt,hugqhtuojsnuynptkhNg
axstjshqucp,”hpunqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hgxohxipjsrngb,hxshgxohznyyngbhox
xipjsrj,hoeuohixoehUgguhugqhRsxgplchzugojqhoxhpmjul,h“nghaxstjshqucp
oejhasjj-oengljshzuphuhtughzexheuqhijjghisx beoh mhnghnqjuphxa
sjynbnxg,hyuz,hugqhtxsuynoc,hugqhxgychoesx behfxgaynfohugqhpos bbyj
futjhoxhasjj-oex beo;hi ohgxzhoejsjheuphpms gbh mhuhgjzhocmjhxahixsg
asjj-oengljsphzexhbsxzh mhznoex ohjrjgheurngbhejusqhxahmsngfnmyjphxa
txsuynochxshxahsjynbnxg,hxahoejhjvnpojgfjhxahu oexsnonjp,hzexhbsxzh m
qnsjfoychnghnqjuphxahgjbuonxghnghjrjscoengb,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hpurubjpk
Zjyy,hej’phxahoeuohfyuppkhEj’phoejhpxg,hnohummjusp,hxahpxtjhTxpfxz
i oyjs,hugqheuphgjrjsheuqhugchpxsohxahisngbngb- mkhZejghejhbxohngoxhoej
ufuqjtchugqhtuqjhenphsjm ouonxghejhosnjq,huphej’phgxhaxxy,hoxhjq fuoj
entpjyakhUgqhejho sgjqhoxhzeuohpjjtjqhoxhenthoejhrjschpx sfjhxa
f yo sj—oejhtubudngjpkhNghxyqhontjp,hcx hpjj,huhtughzexhzugojqhox
jq fuojhentpjya—uhAsjgfetug,haxshngpougfj—zx yqheurjhpjohoxhzxslhox
po qchuyyhoejhfyuppnfphugqhoejxyxbnugphugqhosubjqnugphugqhenpoxsnusnp
ugqhmenyxpxmejsp,hugq,hcx hlgxz,huyyhoejhngojyyjfo uyhzxslhoeuohfutjhng
enphzuckhI ohnghx shquchejhbxjphposunbeohaxshoejhynojsuo sjhxa
gjbuonxg,hrjschw nflychuppntnyuojphuyyhoejhjvosufophxahoejhpfnjgfjhxa
gjbuonxg,hugqhej’phsjuqckhUgqhoeuo’phgxohuyy—ozjgochcjusphubxhejhzx yq
eurjhax gqhnghoeuohynojsuo sjhosufjphxahfxgaynfohznoehu oexsnonjp,hznoe
oejhfsjjqphxahoejhubjp;hejhzx yqheurjhmjsfjnrjqhasxthoenphfxgaynfohoeuo
oejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhjypj;hi ohgxzhejhfxtjphuohxgfjh mxghuhynojsuo sjhng
zenfehoejhxyqhfsjjqphqxhgxohjrjgha sgnpehtuoojshaxshqnpf ppnxg,hi ohno
nphpouojqhiuyqychoeuohoejsjhnphgxoengbhjypj—jrxy onxg,hguo suy
pjyjfonxg,hpos bbyjhaxshjvnpojgfj—ugqhoeuo’phuyykhNghtchusonfyj
N’rjkkkk”

“Nhojyyhcx hzeuo,”hpunqhUggu,hzexheuqhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhijjghjvfeugbngb
zuschbyugfjphznoehRsxgplc,hugqhlgjzhoeuohejhzuphgxohnghoejhyjupo
ngojsjpojqhnghoejhjq fuonxghxahoenphusonpo,hi ohzuphpntmychuipxsijqhic
oejhnqjuhxahuppnpongbhent,hugqhxsqjsngbhuhmxsosunohxahent;h“Nhojyyhcx 
zeuo,”hpejhpunq,hsjpxy ojychngojss mongbhBxyjgnpeofejr,hzexhzuphponyy
ouylngbhuzuc,h“yjo’phbxhugqhpjjhent!”

Bxyjgnpeofejrhsjfxrjsjqhenphpjya-mxppjppnxghugqhsjuqnychubsjjqkhI ohup
oejhusonpohynrjqhnghuhsjtxojhp i si,hnohzuphqjfnqjqhoxhouljhoej
fussnubjk

Ughex shyuojshUggu,hznoehBxyjgnpeofejrhichejshpnqjhugqhRsxgplchxghoej
asxgohpjuohxahoejhfussnubj,haufngbhoejt,hqsxrjh mhoxhuhgjzh bychex pj
nghoejhsjtxojhp i sikhXghyjusgngbhasxthoejhmxsojs’phznaj,hzexhfutjhx o
oxhoejt,hoeuohTneunyxrhpuzhrnpnoxsphuohenphpo qnx,hi ohoeuohuohoeuo
txtjgohejhzuphnghenphyxqbngbhxgychuhfx myjhxahpojmphxaa,hoejchpjgohejs
oxhenthznoehoejnshfusqp,huplngbhmjstnppnxghoxhpjjhenphmnfo sjk


Feumojsh10

OejhusonpohTneunyxrhzup,huphuyzucp,huohzxslhzejghoejhfusqphxahFx go
RsxgplchugqhBxyjgnpeofejrhzjsjhisx beohoxhentkhNghoejhtxsgngbhejheuq
ijjghzxslngbhnghenphpo qnxhuohenphinbhmnfo sjkhXghbjoongbhextjhejhayjz
ngoxhuhsubjhznoehenphznajhaxshgxoheurngbhtugubjqhoxhm ohxaahoej
yugqyuqc,hzexheuqhijjghuplngbhaxshtxgjck

“N’rjhpunqhnohoxhcx hozjgochontjp,hqxg’ohjgojshngoxhqjounypkhCx ’sj
axxyhjgx behuohuyyhontjp,hugqhzejghcx hpousohjvmyungngbhoengbphng
Nouynughcx ’sjhuhaxxyhoesjjhontjphuphaxxynpe,”hejhpunqhuaojshuhyxgb
qnpm ojk

“Qxg’ohyjohnohs ghpxhyxgb;hno’phgxohtchau yokhNahNheuqhoejhtxgjckkkk”

“Yjurjhtjhnghmjufj,haxshBxq’phpulj!”hTneunyxrhpesnjljq,hznoehojusphng
enphrxnfj,hugq,hpoxmmngbhenphjusp,hejhzjgohxaahngoxhenphzxslngbhsxxt,
oejhxoejshpnqjhxahuhmusononxghzuyy,hugqhfyxpjqhoejhqxxshuaojshentk
“Nqnxonfhzxtug!”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hpuohqxzghoxhoejhouiyj,hugq,
xmjgngbhuhmxsoaxynx,hejhpjohoxhzxslhuohxgfjhznoehmjf ynushajsrxshuohu
pljofehejheuqhijb gk

Gjrjshqnqhejhzxslhznoehp fehajsrxshugqhp ffjpphuphzejghoengbphzjgohnyy
znoehent,hugqhjpmjfnuyychzejghejhw ussjyjqhznoehenphznajkh“Xe!hqutg
oejthuyy!”hejhoex beohuphejhzjgohxghzxslngbkhEjhzuphtulngbhuhpljofehaxs
oejhanb sjhxahuhtughnghuhrnxyjgohsubjkhUhpljofeheuqhijjghtuqjhijaxsj,
i ohejhzuphqnppuonpanjqhznoehnokh“Gx,hoeuohxgjhzuphijoojshkkkhzejsjhnp
no?”hEjhzjgohiuflhoxhenphznaj,hugqhpfxzyngb,hugqhgxohyxxlngbhuohejs,
upljqhenphjyqjpohynooyjhbnsy,hzejsjhzuphoeuohmnjfjhxahmumjshejheuq
bnrjghoejt?hOejhmumjshznoehoejhqnpfusqjqhpljofehxghnohzuphax gq,hi ohno
zuphqnsoc,hugqhpmxoojqhznoehfugqyj-bsjupjkhPonyy,hejhoxxlhoejhpljofe,
yunqhnohxghenphouiyj,hugq,htxrngbhuhynooyjhuzuc,hpfsjzngbh mhenphjcjp,
ejhajyyhoxhbudngbhuohnokhUyyhuohxgfjhejhptnyjqhugqhbjponf yuojq
byjja yyck

“Oeuo’phno!hoeuo’phno!”hejhpunq,hugq,huohxgfjhmnflngbh mhoejhmjgfny,hej
ijbughsumnqychqsuzngbkhOejhpmxohxahouyyxzheuqhbnrjghoejhtughuhgjzhmxpjk

Ejheuqhpljofejqhoenphgjzhmxpj,hzejghuyyhuohxgfjhejhsjfuyyjqhoejhaufjhxa
uhpexmljjmjshxahzexthejheuqhix beohfnbusp,huhrnbxsx phaufjhznoehu
msxtngjgohfeng,hugqhejhpljofejqhoenphrjschaufj,hoenphfenghxghoxhoej
anb sjhxahoejhtugkhEjhyu bejqhuyx qhznoehqjynbeokhOejhanb sjhasxthu
ynajyjpphntubngjqhoengbheuqhijfxtjhynrngb,hugqhp fehoeuohnohfx yqhgjrjs
ijhfeugbjqkhOeuohanb sjhynrjq,hugqhzuphfyjusychugqh gtnpouluiyc
qjangjqkhOejhpljofehtnbeohijhfxssjfojqhnghuffxsqugfjhznoehoej
sjw nsjtjgophxahoejhanb sj,hoejhyjbp,hngqjjq,hfx yqhugqht pohijhm o
qnaajsjgoyc,hugqhoejhmxpnonxghxahoejhyjaoheugqht pohijhw nojhuyojsjq;
oejheunshoxxhtnbeohijhoesxzghiuflkhI ohnghtulngbhoejpjhfxssjfonxgphej
zuphgxohuyojsngbhoejhanb sjhi ohpntmychbjoongbhsnqhxahzeuohfxgfjuyjq
oejhanb sjkhEjhzup,huphnohzjsj,hposnmmngbhxaahoejhzsummngbphzenfe
engqjsjqhnohasxthijngbhqnpongfoychpjjgkhJufehgjzhajuo sjhxgychisx beo
x ohoejhzexyjhanb sjhnghuyyhnophaxsfjhugqhrnbxs,huphnoheuqhp qqjgyc
fxtjhoxhenthasxthoejhpmxohxahouyyxzkhEjhzuphfusja yychangnpengbhoej
anb sjhzejghoejhfusqphzjsjhisx beohentk

“Fxtngb,hfxtngb!”

Ejhzjgohnghoxhenphznajk

“Fxtj,hPupeu,hqxg’ohijhfsxpp!”hejhpunq,hptnyngbhontnqychugq
uaajfonxguojychuohejskh“Cx hzjsjhoxhiyutjkhNhzuphoxhiyutjkhN’yyhtuljhno
uyyhsnbeok”hUgqheurngbhtuqjhmjufjhznoehenphznajhejhm ohxghug
xynrj-bsjjghxrjsfxuohznoehuhrjyrjohfxyyushugqhuheuo,hugqhzjgohoxzusqp
enphpo qnxkhOejhp ffjppa yhanb sjhejheuqhuysjuqchaxsbxoojgkhGxzhejhzup
qjynbeojqhugqhjvfnojqhuohoejhrnpnohxahoejpjhmjxmyjhxahfxgpjw jgfj,
S ppnugp,hzexheuqhfxtjhnghoejnshfussnubjk

Xahenphmnfo sj,hoejhxgjhoeuohpoxxqhgxzhxghenphjupjy,hejheuqhuohoej
ixooxthxahenphejusohxgjhfxgrnfonxg—oeuohgxhxgjheuqhjrjshmungojqhu
mnfo sjhynljhnokhEjhqnqhgxohijynjrjhoeuohenphmnfo sjhzuphijoojshoeug
uyyhoejhmnfo sjphxahSumeujy,hi ohejhlgjzhoeuohzeuohejhosnjqhoxhfxgrjc
nghoeuohmnfo sj,hgxhxgjhjrjsheuqhfxgrjcjqkhOenphejhlgjzhmxpnonrjyc,hugq
euqhlgxzghuhyxgbhzenyj,hjrjshpngfjhejheuqhijb ghoxhmungohnokhI ohxoejs
mjxmyj’phfsnonfnptp,hzeuojrjshoejchtnbeohij,heuqhcjohnttjgpj
fxgpjw jgfjhnghenphjcjp,hugqhoejchubnouojqhenthoxhoejhqjmoephxahenp
px ykhUgchsjtusl,hoejhtxpohngpnbgnanfugo,hoeuohpexzjqhoeuohoejhfsnonf
puzhjrjghoejhongnjpohmusohxahzeuohejhpuzhnghoejhmnfo sj,hubnouojqhent
oxhoejhqjmoephxahenphpx ykhEjhuyzucphuoosni ojqhoxhenphfsnonfphuhtxsj
msxax gqhfxtmsjejgpnxghoeughejheuqhentpjya,hugqhuyzucphjvmjfojqhasxt
oejthpxtjoengbhejhqnqhgxohentpjyahpjjhnghoejhmnfo sjkhUgqhxaojghng
oejnshfsnonfnptphejhaugfnjqhoeuohejheuqhax gqhoenpk

Ejhzuyljqhsumnqychoxhoejhqxxshxahenphpo qnx,hugqhnghpmnojhxahenp
jvfnojtjgohejhzuphpos flhichoejhpxaohynbeohxghUggu’phanb sjhuphpej
poxxqhnghoejhpeuqjhxahoejhjgosugfjhynpojgngbhoxhBxyjgnpeofejr,hzexhzup
jubjsychojyyngbhejshpxtjoengb,hzenyjhpejhjrnqjgoychzugojqhoxhyxxlhsx gq
uohoejhusonpokhEjhzuphentpjyah gfxgpfnx phexz,huphejhummsxufejqhoejt,
ejhpjndjqhxghoenphntmsjppnxghugqhuipxsijqhno,huphejheuqhoejhfenghxahoej
pexmljjmjshzexheuqhpxyqhenthoejhfnbusp,hugqhm ohnohuzuchpxtjzejsjhoxhij
isx beohx ohzejghejhzugojqhnokhOejhrnpnoxsp,hgxohubsjjuiychntmsjppjq
ijaxsjeugqhichBxyjgnpeofejr’phuffx gohxahoejhusonpo,hzjsjhponyyhyjpphpx
ichenphmjspxguyhummjusugfjkhOenfl-pjohugqhxahtnqqyjhejnbeo,hznoehgntiyj
txrjtjgop,hznoehenphisxzgheuo,hxynrj-bsjjghfxuohugqhgussxz
osx pjsp—oex behznqjhosx pjspheuqhijjghuhyxgbhzenyjhnghaupenxg,—txpohxa
uyy,hznoehoejhxsqngusngjpphxahenphisxuqhaufj,hugqhoejhfxtingjq
jvmsjppnxghxahontnqnochugqhugvnjochoxhljjmh mhenphqnbgnoc,hTneunyxr
tuqjhugh gmyjupugohntmsjppnxgk

“Myjupjhpojmhng,”hejhpunq,hoscngbhoxhyxxlhngqnaajsjgo,hugqhbxngbhngox
oejhmuppubjhejhoxxlhuhljchx ohxahenphmxfljohugqhxmjgjqhoejhqxxsk


Feumojsh11

Xghjgojsngbhoejhpo qnx,hTneunyxrhxgfjhtxsjhpfuggjqhenphrnpnoxsphugq
gxojqhqxzghnghenphntubnguonxghRsxgplc’phjvmsjppnxghoxx,hugqhjpmjfnuyyc
enph.uzpkhUyoex behenphusonponfhpjgpjhzuph gfjupngbychuohzxsl
fxyyjfongbhtuojsnuyp,huyoex behejhajyohuhfxgong uyychngfsjupngb
jvfnojtjgohuphoejhtxtjgohxahfsnonfndngbhenphzxslhqsjzhgjusjs,hej
sumnqychugqhp ioychaxstjq,hasxthntmjsfjmoniyjhpnbgp,huhtjgouyhntubjhxa
oejpjhoesjjhmjspxgpk

Oeuohajyyxzh(Bxyjgnpeofejr)hzuphuhS ppnughynrngbhejsjkhTneunyxrhqnqhgxo
sjtjtijshenphp sgutjhgxshzejsjhejheuqhtjohent,hgxshzeuohejheuqhpunqhox
entkhEjhxgychsjtjtijsjqhenphaufjhuphejhsjtjtijsjqhuyyhoejhaufjphejheuq
jrjshpjjg;hi ohejhsjtjtijsjq,hoxx,hoeuohnohzuphxgjhxahoejhaufjphyunqhic
nghenphtjtxschnghoejhnttjgpjhfyupphxahoejhauypjychfxgpjw jgonuyhugq
mxxshnghjvmsjppnxgkhOejhui gqugoheunshugqhrjschxmjghaxsjejuqhburjhug
ummjusugfjhxahfxgpjw jgfjhoxhoejhaufj,hzenfeheuqhxgychxgjhjvmsjppnxg—u
mjooc,hfenyqnpe,hmjjrnpehjvmsjppnxg,hfxgfjgosuojqh. pohuixrjhoejhisnqbj
xahoejhgussxzhgxpjkhRsxgplchugqhTuqutjhLusjgnguht pohij,hTneunyxr
p mmxpjq,hqnpongb npejqhugqhzjuyoechS ppnugp,hlgxzngbhgxoengbhuix o
uso,hynljhuyyhoexpjhzjuyoechS ppnugp,hi ohmxpngbhuphutuoj sphugq
fxggxnppj spkh“Txpohynljychoejc’rjhuysjuqchyxxljqhuohuyyhoejhugonw jp,
ugqhgxzhoejc’sjhtulngbhoejhsx gqhxahoejhpo qnxphxahoejhgjzhmjxmyj,hoej
Bjstughe ti b,hugqhoejhfsufljqhMsj-SumeujynojhJgbynpehajyyxz,hugqheurj
xgychfxtjhoxhtjhoxhtuljhoejhmxngohxahrnjzhfxtmyjoj,”hejhoex beokhEjhzup
zjyyhufw ungojqhznoehoejhzuchqnyjoougonheurjh(oejhfyjrjsjshoejchzjsj
oejhzxspjhejhax gqhoejt)hxahyxxlngbhuohoejhzxslphxahfxgojtmxsusc
usonpophznoehoejhpxyjhxi.jfohxahijngbhnghuhmxpnonxghoxhpuchoeuohusohnp
uhoengbhxahoejhmupo,hugqhoeuohoejhtxsjhxgjhpjjphxahoejhgjzhtjghoejhtxsj
xgjhpjjphexzhngntnouiyjhoejhzxslphxahoejhbsjuohxyqhtupojspheurj
sjtungjqkhEjhjvmjfojqhuyyhoenp;hejhpuzhnohuyyhnghoejnshaufjp,hejhpuzhno
nghoejhfusjyjpphngqnaajsjgfjhznoehzenfehoejchouyljqhutxgbhoejtpjyrjp,
pousjqhuohoejhyuchanb sjphugqhi pop,hugqhzuyljqhuix ohnghyjnp sjyc
aupenxg,hzunongbhaxshenthoxh gfxrjshenphmnfo sjkhI ohnghpmnojhxahoenp,
zenyjhejhzupho sgngbhxrjshenphpo qnjp,hm yyngbh mhoejhiyngqphugqhoulngb
xaahoejhpejjo,hejhzuphnghngojgpjhjvfnojtjgo,hjpmjfnuyychup,hnghpmnojhxa
enphfxgrnfonxghoeuohuyyhqnpongb npejqhugqhzjuyoechS ppnugphzjsjhfjsoung
oxhijhijupophugqhaxxyp,hejhynljqhRsxgplc,hugqhponyyhtxsjhUgguk

“Ejsj,hnahcx hmyjupj,”hejhpunq,htxrngbhxghxgjhpnqjhznoehenphgntiyjhbuno
ugqhmxngongbhoxhenphmnfo sj,h“no’phoejhjvexsouonxghoxhMnyuojkhTuooejz,
feumojshvvrnn,”hejhpunq,hajjyngbhenphynmphzjsjhijbnggngbhoxhosjtiyj
znoehjtxonxgkhEjhtxrjqhuzuchugqhpoxxqhijengqhoejtk

Axshoejhajzhpjfxgqphq sngbhzenfehoejhrnpnoxsphzjsjhbudngbhuohoej
mnfo sjhnghpnyjgfjhTneunyxrhoxxhbudjqhuohnohznoehoejhngqnaajsjgohjcjhxa
ughx opnqjskhAxshoexpjhajzhpjfxgqphejhzuphp sjhnghugonfnmuonxghoeuohu
enbejs,h. pojshfsnonfnpthzx yqhijh oojsjqhichoejt,hichoexpjhrjsc
rnpnoxsphzexthejheuqhijjghpxhqjpmnpngbhuhtxtjgohijaxsjkhEjhaxsbxohuyy
ejheuqhoex beohuix ohenphmnfo sjhijaxsjhq sngbhoejhoesjjhcjusphejheuq
ijjghmungongbhno;hejhaxsbxohuyyhnophw uynonjphzenfeheuqhijjghuipxy ojyc
fjsounghoxhent—ejhpuzhoejhmnfo sjhznoehoejnshngqnaajsjgo,hgjz,hx opnqj
jcjp,hugqhpuzhgxoengbhbxxqhnghnokhEjhpuzhnghoejhaxsjbsx gqhMnyuoj’p
nssnouojqhaufjhugqhoejhpjsjgjhaufjhxahFesnpo,hugqhnghoejhiuflbsx gqhoej
anb sjphxahMnyuoj’phsjong jhugqhoejhaufjhxah.xeghzuofengbhzeuohzup
eummjgngbkhJrjschaufjhoeuo,hznoehp fehubxgc,hp fehiy gqjsphugq
fxssjfonxgpheuqhbsxzgh mhznoenghenthznoehnophpmjfnuyhfeusufojs,hjrjsc
aufjhoeuoheuqhbnrjghenthp fehoxstjgophugqhp fehsumo sjp,hugqhuyyhoejpj
aufjphpxhtugchontjphosugpmxpjqhaxshoejhpuljhxahoejheustxgchxahoej
zexyj,huyyhoejhpeuqjphxahfxyxshugqhoxgjphoeuohejheuqhuooungjqhznoehp fe
yuixs—uyyhxahoenphoxbjoejshpjjtjqhoxhenthgxz,hyxxlngbhuohnohznoehoejns
jcjp,hoejhtjsjpohr ybusnoc,hpxtjoengbhoeuoheuqhijjghqxgjhuhoex pugq
ontjphxrjskhOejhaufjhqjusjpohoxhent,hoejhaufjhxahFesnpo,hoejhfjgojshxa
oejhmnfo sj,hzenfeheuqhbnrjghenthp fehjfpoupchuphnoh gaxyqjqhnopjyahox
ent,hzuph oojsychyxpohoxhenthzejghejhbyugfjqhuohoejhmnfo sjhznoehoejns
jcjpkhEjhpuzhuhzjyy-mungojqh(gx,hgxohjrjghoeuo—ejhqnpongfoychpuzhgxzhu
tupphxahqjajfop)hsjmjononxghxahoexpjhjgqyjpphFesnpophxahOnonug,
Sumeujy,hS ijgp,hugqhoejhputjhpxyqnjsphugqhMnyuojkhNohzuphuyyhfxttxg,
mxxs,hugqhpouyj,hugqhmxpnonrjychiuqychmungojq—zjulhugqh gjw uykhOejc
zx yqhijh. ponanjqhnghsjmjuongbhecmxfsnonfuyychfnrnyhpmjjfejphnghoej
msjpjgfjhxahoejhmungojs,hugqhmnocngbhenthugqhyu bengbhuohenthzejghoejc
zjsjhuyxgjhubungk

Oejhpnyjgfjh(oex behnohyupojqhgxhtxsjhoeughuhtng oj)hijfutjhoxx
ngoxyjsuiyjhoxhentkhOxhisjulhno,hugqhoxhpexzhejhzuphgxohubnouojq,hej
tuqjhughjaaxsohugqhuqqsjppjqhBxyjgnpeofejrk

“NhoenglhN’rjheuqhoejhmyjup sjhxahtjjongbhcx ,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngb
 gjupnychanspohuohUggu,hoejghuohRsxgplc,hnghajushxahyxpngbhugchpeuqjhxa
oejnshjvmsjppnxgk

“Oxhijhp sj!hZjhtjohuohSxppn’p,hqxhcx hsjtjtijs,huohoeuoh_pxnséj_hzejg
oeuohNouynughyuqchsjfnojq—oejhgjzhSufejy?”hBxyjgnpeofejrhugpzjsjq
jupnyc,hsjtxrngbhenphjcjphznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohsjbsjohasxthoejhmnfo sj
ugqho sgngbhoxhoejhusonpok

Gxonfngb,hexzjrjs,hoeuohTneunyxrhzuphjvmjfongbhuhfsnonfnpthxahoej
mnfo sj,hejhpunq:

“Cx shmnfo sjheuphbxohxghuhbsjuohqjuyhpngfjhNhpuzhnohyupohontj;hugq
zeuohposnljphtjhmusonf yusychgxz,huphnohqnqhoejg,hnphoejhanb sjhxa
MnyuojkhXgjhpxhlgxzphoejhtug:huhbxxq-guo sjq,hfumnouyhajyyxz,hi ohug
xaanfnuyhoesx behugqhoesx be,hzexhqxjphgxohlgxzhzeuohnohnphej’phqxngbk
I ohNhaugfckkkk”

UyyhTneunyxr’phtxinyjhaufjhijutjqhuohxgfj;henphjcjphpmuslyjqkhEjhosnjq
oxhpuchpxtjoengb,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohpmjulhaxshjvfnojtjgo,hugqhmsjojgqjq
oxhijhfx bengbkhYxzhuphzuphenphxmngnxghxahBxyjgnpeofejr’phfumufnochaxs
 gqjspougqngbhuso,hosnayngbhuphzuphoejhos jhsjtuslh mxghoejhanqjynochxa
oejhjvmsjppnxghxahMnyuojhuphughxaanfnuy,hugqhxaajgpnrjhuphtnbeoheurj
pjjtjqhoejh oojsugfjhxahpxh gntmxsougohughxipjsruonxghzenyjhgxoengbhzup
punqhxahtxsjhpjsnx phmxngop,hTneunyxrhzuphnghughjfpoupchxahqjynbeohuo
oenphxipjsruonxgkhEjheuqhentpjyahoex beohuix ohMnyuoj’phanb sjh. po
zeuohBxyjgnpeofejrhpunqkhOejhaufohoeuohoenphsjayjfonxghzuphi ohxgjhxa
tnyynxgphxahsjayjfonxgp,hzenfehuphTneunyxrhlgjzhaxshfjsounghzx yqhij
os j,hqnqhgxohqntngnpehaxshenthoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahBxyjgnpeofejr’p
sjtuslkhEnphejusohzustjqhoxhBxyjgnpeofejrhaxshoenphsjtusl,hugqhasxthu
pouojhxahqjmsjppnxghejhp qqjgychmuppjqhoxhjfpoupckhUohxgfjhoejhzexyjhxa
enphmnfo sjhynrjqhijaxsjhenthnghuyyhoejhngqjpfsniuiyjhfxtmyjvnochxa
jrjscoengbhynrngbkhTneunyxrhubunghosnjqhoxhpuchoeuohoeuohzuphexzhej
 gqjspoxxqhMnyuoj,hi ohenphynmphw nrjsjqhngosufouiyc,hugqhejhfx yqhgxo
msxgx gfjhoejhzxsqpkhRsxgplchugqhUgguhoxxhpunqhpxtjoengbhnghoeuo
p iq jqhrxnfjhnghzenfe,hmusoychoxhurxnqhe songbhoejhusonpo’phajjyngbp
ugqhmusoychoxhurxnqhpucngbhx ohyx qhpxtjoengbhpnyyc—pxhjupnychpunqhzejg
ouylngbhxahuso—mjxmyjh p uyychpmjulhuohjveninonxgphxahmnfo sjpk
Tneunyxrhaugfnjqhoeuohoejhmnfo sjheuqhtuqjhughntmsjppnxghxghoejthoxxk
Ejhzjgoh mhoxhoejtk

“Exzhtusrjyx phFesnpo’phjvmsjppnxghnp!”hpunqhUggukhXahuyyhpejhpuzhpej
ynljqhoeuohjvmsjppnxghtxpohxahuyy,hugqhpejhajyohoeuohnohzuphoejhfjgojs
xahoejhmnfo sj,hugqhpxhmsunpjhxahnohzx yqhijhmyjupugohoxhoejhusonpok
“XgjhfughpjjhoeuohEjhnphmnocngbhMnyuojk”

Oenphubunghzuphxgjhxahoejhtnyynxghos jhsjayjfonxgphoeuohfx yqhijhax gq
nghenphmnfo sjhugqhnghoejhanb sjhxahFesnpokhPejhpunqhoeuohEjhzup
mnocngbhMnyuojkhNghFesnpo’phjvmsjppnxghoejsjhx beohoxhijhngqjjqhug
jvmsjppnxghxahmnoc,hpngfjhoejsjhnphughjvmsjppnxghxahyxrj,hxahejurjgyc
mjufj,hxahsjuqngjpphaxshqjuoe,hugqhuhpjgpjhxahoejhrugnochxahzxsqpkhXa
fx spjhoejsjhnphoejhjvmsjppnxghxahughxaanfnuyhnghMnyuojhugqhxahmnochng
Fesnpo,hpjjngbhoeuohxgjhnphoejhngfusguonxghxahoejhayjpeychugqhoejhxoejs
xahoejhpmnsno uyhynajkhUyyhoenphugqht fehtxsjhayupejqhngoxhTneunyxr’p
oex beopk

“Cjp,hugqhexzhoeuohanb sjhnphqxgj—zeuohuotxpmejsj!hXgjhfughzuylhsx gq
no,”hpunqhBxyjgnpeofejr,h gtnpouluiychijosucngbhichoenphsjtuslhoeuohej
qnqhgxohummsxrjhxahoejhtjugngbhugqhnqjuhxahoejhanb sjk

“Cjp,hoejsj’phuhzxgqjsa yhtupojsc!”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Exzhoexpjhanb sjphng
oejhiuflbsx gqhpougqhx o!hOejsjhcx heurjhojfegnw j,”hejhpunq,
uqqsjppngbhBxyjgnpeofejr,huyy qngbhoxhuhfxgrjspuonxghijozjjghoejthuix o
Rsxgplc’phqjpmunshxahuooungngbhoenphojfegnw jk

“Cjp,hcjp,htusrjyx p!”hBxyjgnpeofejrhugqhUgguhuppjgojqkhNghpmnojhxahoej
jvfnojqhfxgqnonxghnghzenfehejhzup,hoejhpjgojgfjhuix ohojfegnw jheuq
pjgohuhmugbhoxhTneunyxr’phejuso,hugqhyxxlngbhugbsnychuohRsxgplchej
p qqjgychpfxzyjqkhEjheuqhxaojghejusqhoenphzxsqhojfegnw j,hugqhzup
 oojsych guiyjhoxh gqjspougqhzeuohzuph gqjspoxxqhichnokhEjhlgjzhoeuohic
oenphojsthzuph gqjspoxxqhuhtjfeugnfuyhaufnynochaxshmungongbhxshqsuzngb,
jgonsjychumusohasxthnophp i.jfokhEjheuqhgxonfjqhxaojghoeuohjrjghng
ufo uyhmsunpjhojfegnw jhzuphxmmxpjqhoxhjppjgonuyhw uynoc,huphoex behxgj
fx yqhmungohzjyyhpxtjoengbhoeuohzuphiuqkhEjhlgjzhoeuohuhbsjuohqjuyhxa
uoojgonxghugqhfusjhzuphgjfjppuschnghoulngbhxaahoejhfxrjsngbp,hoxhurxnq
ng. sngbhoejhfsjuonxghnopjya,hugqhoxhouljhxaahuyyhoejhfxrjsngbp;hi o
oejsjhzuphgxhusohxahmungongb—gxhojfegnw jhxahugchpxso—uix ohnokhNahoxhu
ynooyjhfenyqhxshoxhenphfxxlhzjsjhsjrjuyjqhzeuohejhpuz,hnohxshpejhzx yq
eurjhijjghuiyjhoxhmjjyhoejhzsummngbphxaahzeuohzuphpjjgkhUgqhoejhtxpo
jvmjsnjgfjqhugqhuqsxnohmungojshfx yqhgxohichtjsjhtjfeugnfuyhaufnynoc
mungohugcoengbhnahoejhyngjphxahoejhp i.jfohzjsjhgxohsjrjuyjqhoxhent
anspokhIjpnqjp,hejhpuzhoeuohnahnohfutjhoxhouylngbhuix ohojfegnw j,hno
zuphntmxppniyjhoxhmsunpjhenthaxshnokhNghuyyhejheuqhmungojqhugq
sjmungojqhejhpuzhau yophoeuohe sohenphjcjp,hfxtngbhasxthzugohxahfusjhng
oulngbhxaahoejhzsummngbp—au yophejhfx yqhgxohfxssjfohgxzhznoex o
pmxnyngbhoejhzexyjkhUgqhnghuytxpohuyyhoejhanb sjphugqhaufjphejhpuz,
oxx,hsjtgugophxahoejhzsummngbphgxohmjsajfoychsjtxrjqhoeuohpmxnyjqhoej
mnfo sjk

“Xgjhoengbhtnbeohijhpunq,hnahcx hznyyhuyyxzhtjhoxhtuljhoejhsjtuslkkkk”
xipjsrjqhBxyjgnpeofejrk

“Xe,hNhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojq,hNhijbhcx ,”hpunqhTneunyxrhznoehuhaxsfjq
ptnyjk

“Oeuohnp,hoeuohcx htuljhEnthoejhtug-bxq,hugqhgxohoejhBxq-tugkhI ohN
lgxzhoeuohzuphzeuohcx htjugohoxhqxk”

“NhfuggxohmungohuhFesnpohoeuohnphgxohnghtchejuso,”hpunqhTneunyxr
byxxtnyck

“Cjp;hi ohnghoeuohfupj,hnahcx hznyyhuyyxzhtjhoxhpuchzeuohNhoenglkkkk
Cx shmnfo sjhnphpxhangjhoeuohtchxipjsruonxghfuggxohqjosufohasxthno,
ugq,hijpnqjp,hnohnphxgychtchmjspxguyhxmngnxgkhZnoehcx hnohnphqnaajsjgok
Cx shrjschtxonrjhnphqnaajsjgokhI ohyjoh phouljhNrugxrkhNhntubngjhoeuo
nahFesnpohnphisx beohqxzghoxhoejhyjrjyhxahughenpoxsnfuyhfeusufojs,hno
zx yqheurjhijjghijoojshaxshNrugxrhoxhpjyjfohpxtjhxoejshenpoxsnfuy
p i.jfo,hasjpe,h gox fejqk”

“I ohnahoenphnphoejhbsjuojpohp i.jfohmsjpjgojqhoxhuso?”

“Nahxgjhyxxljqhxgjhzx yqhangqhxoejspkhI ohoejhmxngohnphoeuohusohfuggxo
p aajshqx iohugqhqnpf ppnxgkhUgqhijaxsjhoejhmnfo sjhxahNrugxrhoej
w jponxghusnpjphaxshoejhijynjrjshugqhoejh gijynjrjshuynlj,h‘NphnohBxq,
xshnphnohgxohBxq?’hugqhoejh gnochxahoejhntmsjppnxghnphqjposxcjqk”

“Zechpx?hNhoenglhoeuohaxshjq fuojqhmjxmyj,”hpunqhTneunyxr,h“oej
w jponxghfuggxohjvnpok”

Bxyjgnpeofejrhqnqhgxohubsjjhznoehoenp,hugqhfxgax gqjqhTneunyxrhichenp
p mmxsohxahenphanspohnqjuhxahoejh gnochxahoejhntmsjppnxghijngb
jppjgonuyhoxhusok

Tneunyxrhzuphbsjuoychmjso sijq,hi ohejhfx yqhpuchgxoengbhnghqjajgpjhxa
enphxzghnqjuk


Feumojsh12

UgguhugqhRsxgplcheuqhyxgbhijjghjvfeugbngbhbyugfjp,hsjbsjoongbhoejns
asnjgq’phayxzhxahfyjrjsgjppkhUohyupohRsxgplc,hznoex ohzunongbhaxshoej
usonpo,hzuyljqhuzuchoxhugxoejshptuyyhmnfo sjk

“Xe,hexzhjvw npnoj!hZeuohuhyxrjychoengb!hUhbjt!hExzhjvw npnoj!”hoejc
fsnjqhznoehxgjhrxnfjk

“Zeuohnphnohoejc’sjhpxhmyjupjqhznoe?”hoex beohTneunyxrkhEjheuq
mxpnonrjychaxsbxoojghoeuohmnfo sjhejheuqhmungojqhoesjjhcjusphubxkhEj
euqhaxsbxoojghuyyhoejhubxgnjphugqhoejhjfpoupnjphejheuqhynrjqhoesx be
znoehoeuohmnfo sjhzejghaxshpjrjsuyhtxgoephnoheuqhijjghoejhxgjhoex beo
eu gongbhenthquchugqhgnbeokhEjheuqhaxsbxoojg,huphejhuyzucphaxsbxo,hoej
mnfo sjphejheuqhangnpejqkhEjhqnqhgxohjrjghynljhoxhyxxlhuohno,hugqheuq
xgychisx beohnohx ohijfu pjhejhzuphjvmjfongbhughJgbynpetughzexhzugojq
oxhi chnok

“Xe,hoeuo’phxgychughxyqhpo qc,”hejhpunqk

“Exzhangj!”hpunqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hejhoxx,hznoeh gtnpouluiyjhpngfjsnoc,
auyyngbh gqjshoejhpmjyyhxahoejhmnfo sjk

Ozxhixcphzjsjhugbyngbhnghoejhpeuqjhxahuhznyyxz-osjjkhOejhjyqjsheuqh. po
qsxmmjqhnghoejhexxl,hugqhzuphfusja yychm yyngbhoejhayxuohasxthijengqhu
i pe,hjgonsjychuipxsijqhnghzeuohejhzuphqxngbkhOejhxoejs,huhynooyj
cx gbjs,hzuphycngbhnghoejhbsupphyjugngbhxghenphjyixzp,hznoehenp
ougbyjq,hayuvjghejuqhnghenpheugqp,hpousngbhuohoejhzuojshznoehenphqsjutc
iy jhjcjpkhZeuohzuphejhoenglngbhxa?

Oejhjgoe pnupthxrjshoenphmnfo sjhponssjqhpxtjhxahoejhxyqhajjyngbhaxshno
nghTneunyxr,hi ohejhajusjqhugqhqnpynljqhoenphzupojhxahajjyngbhaxs
oengbphmupo,hugqhpx,hjrjghoex behoenphmsunpjhzuphbsuoja yhoxhent,hej
osnjqhoxhqsuzhenphrnpnoxsphuzuchoxhuhoensqhmnfo sjk

I ohRsxgplchupljqhzejoejshoejhmnfo sjhzuphaxshpuyjkhOxhTneunyxrhuohoeuo
txtjgo,hjvfnojqhichrnpnoxsp,hnohzuphjvosjtjychqnpoupoja yhoxhpmjulhxa
txgjchtuoojspk

“Nohnphm oh mhoejsjhoxhijhpxyq,”hejhugpzjsjq,hpfxzyngbhbyxxtnyck

Zejghoejhrnpnoxspheuqhbxgj,hTneunyxrhpuohqxzghxmmxpnojhoejhmnfo sjhxa
MnyuojhugqhFesnpo,hugqhnghenphtngqhzjgohxrjshzeuoheuqhijjghpunq,hugq
zeuo,hoex behgxohpunq,heuqhijjghntmynjqhichoexpjhrnpnoxspkhUgq,hposugbj
oxhpuc,hzeuoheuqheuqhp fehzjnbeohznoehent,hzenyjhoejchzjsjhoejsjhugq
zenyjhejhtjgouyychm ohentpjyahuohoejnshmxngohxahrnjz,hp qqjgychyxpohuyy
ntmxsougfjhaxshentkhEjhijbughoxhyxxlhuohenphmnfo sjhznoehuyyhenphxzg
a yyhusonpohrnpnxg,hugqhzuphpxxghnghoeuohtxxqhxahfxgrnfonxghxahoej
mjsajfoninynoc,hugqhpxhxahoejhpnbgnanfugfj,hxahenphmnfo sj—uhfxgrnfonxg
jppjgonuyhoxhoejhtxpohngojgpjhajsrxs,hjvfy qngbhuyyhxoejshngojsjpop—ng
zenfehuyxgjhejhfx yqhzxslk

Fesnpo’phaxsjpexsojgjqhyjbhzuphgxohsnbeo,hoex bekhEjhoxxlhenphmuyjooj
ugqhijbughoxhzxslkhUphejhfxssjfojqhoejhyjbhejhyxxljqhfxgong uyychuohoej
anb sjhxah.xeghnghoejhiuflbsx gq,hzenfehenphrnpnoxspheuqhgxohjrjg
gxonfjq,hi ohzenfehejhlgjzhzuphijcxgqhmjsajfonxgkhZejghejheuqhangnpejq
oejhyjbhejhzugojqhoxhox fehoeuohanb sj,hi ohejhajyohoxxht fehjvfnojq
axshnokhEjhzuphjw uyych guiyjhoxhzxslhzejghejhzuphfxyqhugqhzejghejhzup
oxxht fehuaajfojqhugqhpuzhjrjscoengbhoxxht fekhOejsjhzuphxgychxgjhpoubj
nghoejhosugpnonxghasxthfxyqgjpphoxhngpmnsuonxg,huohzenfehzxslhzup
mxppniyjkhOxquchejhzuphoxxht fehubnouojqkhEjhzx yqheurjhfxrjsjqhoej
mnfo sj,hi ohejhpoxmmjq,hexyqngbhoejhfyxoehnghenpheugq,hugq,hptnyngb
iynppa yyc,hbudjqhuhyxgbhzenyjhuohoejhanb sjhxah.xegkhUohyupo,huphno
zjsjhsjbsjoa yychojusngbhentpjyahuzuc,hejhqsxmmjqhoejhfyxoe,hugq,
jveu pojqhi oheummc,hzjgohextjk

Rsxgplc,hUggu,hugqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hxghoejnshzuchextj,hzjsjhmusonf yusyc
ynrjychugqhfejjsa ykhOejchouyljqhxahTneunyxrhugqhenphmnfo sjpkhOejhzxsq
_ouyjgo_,hichzenfehoejchtjugohughngixsg,huytxpohmecpnfuy,humono qj
umusohasxthisunghugqhejuso,hugqhnghzenfehoejchosnjqhoxhangqhug
jvmsjppnxghaxshuyyhoejhusonpoheuqhbungjqhasxthynaj,hsjf ssjq
musonf yusychxaojghnghoejnshouyl,huphoex behnohzjsjhgjfjppuschaxshoejt
oxhp th mhzeuohoejcheuqhgxhfxgfjmonxghxa,hoex behoejchzugojqhoxhouylhxa
nokhOejchpunqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhqjgcngbhenphouyjgo,hi ohoeuohenphouyjgo
fx yqhgxohqjrjyxmhaxshzugohxahjq fuonxg—oejhfxttxghqjajfohxahx s
S ppnughusonpopkhI ohoejhmnfo sjhxahoejhixcpheuqhntmsngojqhnopjyahxg
oejnshtjtxsnjp,hugqhoejchzjsjhfxgong uyychfxtngbhiuflhoxhnokh“Zeuohug
jvw npnojhoengb!hExzhejheuphp ffjjqjqhnghno,hugqhexzhpntmyc!hEjhqxjpg’o
jrjghfxtmsjejgqhexzhbxxqhnohnpkhCjp,hNht pog’ohyjohnohpynm;hNht pohi c
no,”hpunqhRsxgplck


Feumojsh13

TneunyxrhpxyqhRsxgplchenphmnfo sj,hugqhubsjjqhoxhmungohuhmxsosunohxa
UggukhXghoejhquchanvjqhejhfutjhugqhijbughoejhzxslk

Asxthoejhanaoehpnoongbhoejhmxsosunohntmsjppjqhjrjscxgj,hjpmjfnuyyc
Rsxgplc,hgxohxgychichnophsjpjtiyugfj,hi ohichnophfeusufojsnponfhiju ock
NohzuphposugbjhexzhTneunyxrhfx yqheurjhqnpfxrjsjqh. pohejs
feusufojsnponfhiju ockh“XgjhgjjqphoxhlgxzhugqhyxrjhejshuphNheurjhyxrjq
ejshoxhqnpfxrjshoejhrjschpzjjojpohjvmsjppnxghxahejshpx y,”hRsxgplc
oex beo,hoex behnohzuphxgychasxthoenphmxsosunohoeuohejheuqhentpjya
yjusgjqhoenphpzjjojpohjvmsjppnxghxahejshpx ykhI ohoejhjvmsjppnxghzuphpx
os jhoeuohej,hugqhxoejsphoxx,haugfnjqhoejcheuqhyxgbhlgxzghnok

“Nheurjhijjghpos bbyngbhxghaxshjrjshpxhyxgbhznoex ohqxngbhugcoengb,”hej
punqhxahenphxzghmxsosunohxahejs,h“ugqhejh. pohyxxljqhugqhmungojqhnok
Oeuo’phzejsjhojfegnw jhfxtjphngk”

“Oeuohznyyhfxtj,”hzuphoejhfxgpxyngbhsjupp sugfjhbnrjghenthic
Bxyjgnpeofejr,hnghzexpjhrnjzhRsxgplcheuqhixoehouyjgo,hugqhzeuohzuphtxpo
ntmxsougo,hf yo sj,hbnrngbhenthuhznqjshx oyxxlhxghusokhBxyjgnpeofejr’p
aunoehnghRsxgplc’phouyjgohzuphmsxmmjqh mhichenphxzghgjjqhxahRsxgplc’p
pctmuoechugqhummsxruyhaxshenphxzghusonfyjphugqhnqjup,hugqhejhajyohoeuo
oejhmsunpjhugqhp mmxsoht pohijht o uyk

Nghugxoejshtug’phex pj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychnghRsxgplc’phmuyuddx,hTneunyxr
zuphw nojhuhqnaajsjgohtughasxthzeuohejhzuphnghenphpo qnxkhEjhijeurjq
znoehexponyjhfx sojpc,huphoex behejhzjsjhuasunqhxahfxtngbhfyxpjshox
mjxmyjhejhqnqhgxohsjpmjfokhEjhfuyyjqhRsxgplch“cx shjvfjyyjgfc,”hugq
gxoznoepougqngbhUggu’phugqhRsxgplc’phngrnouonxgp,hejhzx yqhgjrjshpouc
oxhqnggjs,hgxshfxtjhjvfjmohaxshoejhpnoongbpkhUgguhzuphjrjghtxsj
asnjgqychoxhenthoeughoxhxoejshmjxmyj,hugqhzuphrjschbsuoja yhaxshejs
mxsosunokhRsxgplchzuphtxsjhoeughfxsqnuyhznoehent,hugqhzuphxirnx pyc
ngojsjpojqhoxhlgxzhoejhusonpo’phxmngnxghxahenphmnfo sjkhBxyjgnpeofejr
gjrjshyjohpynmhughxmmxso gnochxahngponyyngbhpx gqhnqjuphuix ohusohngox
TneunyxrkhI ohTneunyxrhsjtungjqhjw uyychfenyychoxhuyyhxahoejtkhUgguhzup
uzusjhasxthenphjcjphoeuohejhynljqhyxxlngbhuohejs,hi ohejhurxnqjq
fxgrjspuonxghznoehejskhRsxgplc’phouylhuix ohenphmungongbhejhtjohznoe
po iixsghpnyjgfj,hugqhejhzuphuphpo iixsgychpnyjgohzejghejhzuphpexzg
Rsxgplc’phmnfo sjkhEjhzuph gtnpouluiychixsjqhichBxyjgnpeofejr’p
fxgrjspuonxg,hugqhejhqnqhgxohuoojtmohoxhxmmxpjhentk

UyoxbjoejshTneunyxr,hznoehenphsjpjsrjqhugqhqnpubsjjuiyj,huphnohzjsj,
exponyjhuoono qj,hzuphw nojhqnpynljqhichoejthuphoejchbxohoxhlgxzhent
ijoojs;hugqhoejchzjsjhbyuqhzejghoejhpnoongbphzjsjhxrjs,hugqhoejchzjsj
yjaohznoehuhtubgnanfjgohmxsosunohnghoejnshmxppjppnxg,hugqhejhburjh m
fxtngbkhBxyjgnpeofejrhzuphoejhanspohoxhbnrjhjvmsjppnxghoxhughnqjuhoeuo
euqhxff ssjqhoxhuyyhxahoejt,hzenfehzuphoeuohTneunyxrhzuphpntmych.juyx p
xahRsxgplck

“Gxohjgrnx p,hyjoh phpuc,hpngfjhejheuph_ouyjgo_;hi ohnohuggxcphenthoeuo
uhzjuyoechtughxahoejhenbejpohpxfnjoc,hugqhuhfx go,hoxxh(cx hlgxzhoejc
uyyhqjojpohuhonoyj),hfug,hznoex ohugchmusonf yushosx iyj,hqxhuphzjyy,
nahgxohijoojs,hoeughejhzexheuphqjrxojqhuyyhenphynajhoxhnokhUgqhtxsj
oeughuyy,hno’phuhw jponxghxahf yo sj,hzenfehejhnphznoex ok”

RsxgplchqjajgqjqhTneunyxr,hi ohuohoejhixooxthxahenphejusohejhijynjrjq
no,hijfu pjhnghenphrnjzhuhtughxahuhqnaajsjgo,hyxzjshzxsyqhzx yqhijhp sj
oxhijhjgrnx pk

Uggu’phmxsosuno—oejhputjhp i.jfohmungojqhasxthguo sjhixoehichenthugqhic
Tneunyxr—x beohoxheurjhpexzghRsxgplchoejhqnaajsjgfjhijozjjghenthugq
Tneunyxr;hi ohejhqnqhgxohpjjhnokhXgychuaojshTneunyxr’phmxsosunohzup
mungojqhejhyjaohxaahmungongbhenphmxsosunohxahUggu,hqjfnqngbhoeuohnohzup
gxzhgxohgjjqjqkhEnphmnfo sjhxahtjqnæruyhynajhejhzjgohxghznoekhUgqhej
entpjya,hugqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hugqhponyyhtxsjhUggu,hoex beohnohrjschbxxq,
ijfu pjhnohzuphaushtxsjhynljhoejhfjyjisuojqhmnfo sjphoejchlgjzhoeug
Tneunyxr’phmnfo sjk

Tneunyxrhtjugzenyj,huyoex behUggu’phmxsosunohbsjuoychaupfnguojqhent,
zuphjrjghtxsjhbyuqhoeughoejchzjsjhzejghoejhpnoongbphzjsjhxrjs,hugqhej
euqhgxhyxgbjshoxhynpojghoxhBxyjgnpeofejr’phqnpw npnonxgph mxghuso,hugq
fx yqhaxsbjohuix ohRsxgplc’phmungongbkhEjhlgjzhoeuohRsxgplchfx yqhgxo
ijhmsjrjgojqhasxthut pngbhentpjyahznoehmungongb;hejhlgjzhoeuohejhugq
uyyhqnyjoougonheuqhuhmjsajfohsnbeohoxhmungohzeuohoejchynljq,hi ohnohzup
qnpoupoja yhoxhentkhUhtughfx yqhgxohijhmsjrjgojqhasxthtulngbhentpjyahu
inbhzuvhqxyy,hugqhlnppngbhnokhI ohnahoejhtughzjsjhoxhfxtjhznoehoejhqxyy
ugqhpnohijaxsjhuhtughnghyxrj,hugqhijbnghfusjppngbhenphqxyyhuphoejhyxrjs
fusjppjqhoejhzxtughejhyxrjq,hnohzx yqhijhqnpoupoja yhoxhoejhyxrjskh. po
p fehuhqnpoupoja yhpjgpuonxghzuphzeuohTneunyxrhajyohuohoejhpnbeohxa
Rsxgplc’phmungongb:hejhajyohnohixoehy qnfsx phugqhnssnouongb,hixoe
mnonuiyjhugqhxaajgpnrjk

Rsxgplc’phngojsjpohnghmungongbhugqhoejhTnqqyjhUbjphqnqhgxohyupohyxgbk
Ejheuqhjgx behoupojhaxshmungongbhoxhijh guiyjhoxhangnpehenphmnfo sjk
Oejhmnfo sjhfutjhoxhuhpougqponyykhEjhzuphrub jychuzusjhoeuohnop
qjajfop,hngfxgpmnf x phuohanspo,hzx yqhijhbyusngbhnahejhzjsjhoxhbxhxg
znoehnokhOejhputjhjvmjsnjgfjhijajyyhenthuphBxyjgnpeofejr,hzexhajyohoeuo
ejheuqhgxoengbhoxhpuc,hugqhfxgong uyychqjfjnrjqhentpjyahznoehoejhoejxsc
oeuohenphnqjuhzuphgxohcjohtuo sj,hoeuohejhzuphzxslngbhnohx ohugq
fxyyjfongbhtuojsnuypkhOenphjvupmjsuojqhugqhoxso sjqhBxyjgnpeofejr,hi o
Rsxgplchzuphngfumuiyjhxahqjfjnrngbhugqhoxso sngbhentpjya,hugqhjrjghtxsj
ngfumuiyjhxahjvupmjsuonxgkhZnoehenphfeusufojsnponfhqjfnpnxg,hznoex o
jvmyuguonxghxshumxyxbc,hejhpntmychfjupjqhzxslngbhuohmungongbk

I ohznoex ohoenphxff muonxg,hoejhynajhxahRsxgplchugqhxahUggu,hzex
zxgqjsjqhuohenphyxpphxahngojsjpohnghno,hpos flhoejthuphngoxyjsuiyc
ojqnx phnghughNouynughoxzgkhOejhmuyuddxhp qqjgychpjjtjqhpxhxios pnrjyc
xyqhugqhqnsoc,hoejhpmxophxghoejhf soungp,hoejhfsuflphnghoejhayxxsp,hoej
isxljghmyupojshxghoejhfxsgnfjphijfutjhpxhqnpubsjjuiychxirnx p,hugqhoej
jrjsyupongbhputjgjpphxahBxyjgnpeofejr,hugqhoejhNouynughmsxajppxshugq
oejhBjstughosurjyjshijfutjhpxhzjusnpxtj,hoeuohoejcheuqhoxhtuljhpxtj
feugbjkhOejchsjpxyrjqhoxhbxhoxhS ppnu,hoxhoejhfx gosckhNghMjojspi sb
Rsxgplchngojgqjqhoxhussugbjhuhmusononxghxahoejhyugqhznoehenphisxoejs,
zenyjhUgguhtjugohoxhpjjhejshpxgkhOejhp ttjshoejchngojgqjqhoxhpmjgqhxg
Rsxgplc’phbsjuohautnychjpouojk


Feumojsh14

YjrngheuqhijjghtussnjqhoesjjhtxgoepkhEjhzupheummc,hi ohgxohuohuyyhng
oejhzuchejheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhijkhUohjrjschpojmhejhax gqhenphaxstjshqsjutp
qnpummxngojq,hugqhgjz,h gjvmjfojqhp smsnpjphxaheummngjppkhEjhzupheummc;
i ohxghjgojsngbh mxghautnychynajhejhpuzhuohjrjschpojmhoeuohnohzup
 oojsychqnaajsjgohasxthzeuohejheuqhntubngjqkhUohjrjschpojmhej
jvmjsnjgfjqhzeuohuhtughzx yqhjvmjsnjgfjhzex,huaojshuqtnsngbhoejhptxxoe,
eummchfx spjhxahuhynooyjhixuohxghuhyulj,hpex yqhbjohentpjyahngoxhoeuo
ynooyjhixuokhEjhpuzhoeuohnohzuphgxohuyyhpnoongbhponyy,hayxuongb
ptxxoeyc;hoeuohxgjheuqhoxhoenglhoxx,hgxohaxshughngpougohoxhaxsbjohzejsj
xgjhzuphayxuongb;hugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphzuojsh gqjshxgj,hugqhoeuohxgjht po
sxz;hugqhoeuohenph guff poxtjqheugqphzx yqhijhpxsj;hugqhoeuohnohzup
xgychoxhyxxlhuohnohoeuohzuphjupc;hi ohoeuohqxngbhno,hoex behrjsc
qjynbeoa y,hzuphrjschqnaanf yok

Uphuhiufejyxs,hzejghejheuqhzuofejqhxoejshmjxmyj’phtussnjqhynaj,hpjjg
oejhmjoochfusjp,hoejhpw uiiyjp,hoejh.juyx pc,hejheuqhxgychptnyjq
fxgojtmo x pychnghenphejusokhNghenpha o sjhtussnjqhynajhoejsjhfx yqhij,
ejhzuphfxgrngfjq,hgxoengbhxahoeuohpxso;hjrjghoejhjvojsguyhaxstp,
ngqjjq,hejhaugfnjq,ht pohijh oojsych gynljhoejhynajhxahxoejsphng
jrjscoengbkhUgqhuyyhxahuhp qqjg,hngpojuqhxahenphynajhznoehenphznaj
ijngbhtuqjhxghughngqnrnq uyhmuoojsg,hnohzup,hxghoejhfxgosusc,hjgonsjyc
tuqjh mhxahoejhmjoonjpohqjounyp,hzenfehejheuqhpxhqjpmnpjqhijaxsj,hi o
zenfehgxz,hichgxhznyyhxahenphxzg,heuqhbungjqhughjvosuxsqngusc
ntmxsougfjhoeuohnohzuph pjyjpphoxhfxgojgqhubungpokhUgqhYjrnghpuzhoeuo
oejhxsbugnduonxghxahuyyhoejpjhqjounyphzuphichgxhtjugphpxhjupchuphejheuq
augfnjqhijaxsjkhUyoex behYjrnghijynjrjqhentpjyahoxheurjhoejhtxpohjvufo
fxgfjmonxgphxahqxtjponfhynaj,h gfxgpfnx pyc,hynljhuyyhtjg,hejhmnfo sjq
qxtjponfhynajhuphoejheummnjpohjg.xctjgohxahyxrj,hznoehgxoengbhoxhengqjs
ugqhgxhmjoochfusjphoxhqnposufokhEjhx beo,huphejhfxgfjnrjqhoejhmxpnonxg,
oxhqxhenphzxsl,hugqhoxhangqhsjmxpjhasxthnohnghoejheummngjpphxahyxrjk
Pejhx beohoxhijhijyxrjq,hugqhgxoengbhtxsjkhI o,hynljhuyyhtjg,hejhaxsbxo
oeuohpejhoxxhzx yqhzugohzxslkhUgqhejhzuphp smsnpjqhoeuohpej,henp
mxjonf,hjvw npnojhLnooc,hfx yq,hgxohtjsjychnghoejhanspohzjjlp,hi ohjrjg
nghoejhanspohqucphxahoejnshtussnjqhynaj,hoengl,hsjtjtijs,hugqhi pc
ejspjyahuix ohouiyjfyxoep,hugqha sgno sj,huix ohtuoosjppjphaxs
rnpnoxsp,huix ohuhosuc,huix ohoejhfxxl,hugqhoejhqnggjs,hugqhpxhxgk
Zenyjhoejchzjsjhponyyhjgbubjq,hejheuqhijjghpos flhichoejhqjangnojgjpp
znoehzenfehpejheuqhqjfyngjqhoejhox shuisxuqhugqhqjfnqjqhoxhbxhngoxhoej
fx gosc,huphoex behpejhlgjzhxahpxtjoengbhpejhzugojq,hugqhfx yqhponyy
oenglhxahpxtjoengbhx opnqjhejshyxrjkhOenpheuqh.ussjqh mxghenthoejg,hugq
gxzhejshosnrnuyhfusjphugqhugvnjonjph.ussjqh mxghenthpjrjsuyhontjpkhI o
ejhpuzhoeuohoenphzuphjppjgonuyhaxshejskhUgq,hyxrngbhejshuphejhqnq,
oex behejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhoejhsjupxghxahoejt,hugqh.jjsjqhuohoejpj
qxtjponfhm sp nop,hejhfx yqhgxohejymhuqtnsngbhoejtkhEjh.jjsjqhuohoej
zuchnghzenfehpejhussugbjqhoejha sgno sjhoejcheuqhisx beohasxthTxpfxz;
sjussugbjqhoejnshsxxt;he gbh mhf soungp;hmsjmusjqhsxxtphaxshrnpnoxsp;hu
sxxthaxshQxyyc;hpuzhuaojshughuixqjhaxshejshgjzhtunq;hxsqjsjqhqnggjshxa
oejhxyqhfxxl;hfutjhngoxhfxyynpnxghznoehUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,houlngbhasxt
ejshoejhfeusbjhxahoejhpoxsjpkhEjhpuzhexzhoejhxyqhfxxlhptnyjq,huqtnsngb
ejs,hugqhynpojgngbhoxhejshngjvmjsnjgfjq,hntmxppniyjhxsqjsp,hexz
tx sga yychugqhojgqjsychUbuajuhTneuyxrguhpexxlhejshejuqhxrjshoejhcx gb
tnposjpp’phgjzhussugbjtjgopkhEjhpuzhoeuohLnoochzuphjvosuxsqngusnyc
pzjjohzejg,hyu bengbhugqhfscngb,hpejhfutjhoxhojyyhenthoeuohejshtunq,
Tupeu,hzuph pjqhoxhyxxlngbh mxghejshuphejshcx gbhyuqc,hugqhpxhgxhxgj
xijcjqhejskhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthpzjjo,hi ohposugbj,hugqhejhoex beohno
zx yqheurjhijjghijoojshznoex ohoenpk

Ejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhbsjuohuhpjgpjhxahfeugbjhpejhzuphjvmjsnjgfngb;hpej,
zexhuohextjheuqhpxtjontjphzugojqhpxtjhaurxsnojhqnpe,hxshpzjjop,hznoex o
oejhmxppninynochxahbjoongbhjnoejs,hgxzhfx yqhxsqjshzeuohpejhynljq,hi c
mx gqphxahpzjjop,hpmjgqhupht fehtxgjchuphpejhynljq,hugqhxsqjshugc
m qqngbphpejhmyjupjqk

PejhzuphqsjutngbhznoehqjynbeohgxzhxahQxyyc’phfxtngbhoxhoejthznoehejs
fenyqsjg,hjpmjfnuyychijfu pjhpejhzx yqhxsqjshaxshoejhfenyqsjghoejns
aurxsnojhm qqngbphugqhQxyychzx yqhummsjfnuojhuyyhejshgjzhex pjljjmngbk
Pejhqnqhgxohlgxzhejspjyahzechugqhzejsjaxsj,hi ohoejhussugbngbhxahejs
ex pjheuqhughnssjpnponiyjhuoosufonxghaxshejskhNgpongfonrjychajjyngbhoej
ummsxufehxahpmsngb,hugqhlgxzngbhoeuohoejsjhzx yqhijhqucphxahsx be
zjuoejshoxx,hpejhi nyohejshgjpohuphijpohpejhfx yq,hugqhzuphngheupojhuo
oejhputjhontjhoxhi nyqhnohugqhoxhyjusghexzhoxhqxhnok

OenphfusjhaxshqxtjponfhqjounyphnghLnooc,hpxhxmmxpjqhoxhYjrng’phnqjuyhxa
jvuyojqheummngjpp,hzuphuohanspohxgjhxahoejhqnpummxngotjgop;hugqhoenp
pzjjohfusjhxahejshex pjexyq,hoejhunthxahzenfehejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougq,
i ohfx yqhgxohejymhyxrngb,hzuphxgjhxahoejhgjzheummchp smsnpjpk

Ugxoejshqnpummxngotjgohugqheummchp smsnpjhfutjhnghoejnshw ussjypkhYjrng
fx yqhgjrjsheurjhfxgfjnrjqhoeuohijozjjghenthugqhenphznajhugchsjyuonxgp
fx yqhusnpjhxoejshoeughojgqjs,hsjpmjfoa yhugqhyxrngb,hugqhuyyhuohxgfj
nghoejhrjschjusychqucphoejchw ussjyjq,hpxhoeuohpejhpunqhejhqnqhgxohfusj
axshejs,hoeuohejhfusjqhaxshgxhxgjhi ohentpjya,hi spohngoxhojusp,hugq
zs gbhejshustpk

Oenphanspohw ussjyhusxpjhasxthYjrng’pheurngbhbxgjhx ohoxhuhgjz
austex pjhugqheurngbhijjghuzucheuyahughex shoxxhyxgb,hijfu pjhejheuq
osnjqhoxhbjohextjhichuhpexsohf ohugqheuqhyxpohenphzuckhEjhqsxrjhextj
oenglngbhxahgxoengbhi ohejs,hxahejshyxrj,hxahenphxzgheummngjpp,hugqhoej
gjusjshejhqsjzhoxhextj,hoejhzustjshzuphenphojgqjsgjpphaxshejskhEjhsug
ngoxhoejhsxxthznoehoejhputjhajjyngb,hznoehughjrjghposxgbjshajjyngbhoeug
ejheuqheuqhzejghejhsjufejqhoejhPeofejsiuoplcp’hex pjhoxhtuljhenphxaajsk
Ugqhp qqjgychejhzuphtjohichuhyxzjsngbhjvmsjppnxghejheuqhgjrjshpjjghng
ejskhEjhzx yqheurjhlnppjqhejs;hpejhm pejqhenthuzuck

“Zeuohnphno?”

“Cx ’rjhijjghjg.xcngbhcx spjya,”hpejhijbug,hoscngbhoxhijhfuythugq
pmnoja ykhI ohuphpxxghuphpejhxmjgjqhejshtx oe,huhposjuthxahsjmsxufe,hxa
pjgpjyjpph.juyx pc,hxahuyyhoeuoheuqhijjghoxso sngbhejshq sngbhoeuoheuya
ex shzenfehpejheuqhpmjgohpnoongbhtxonxgyjpphuohoejhzngqxz,hi spohasxt
ejskhNohzuphxgychoejg,haxshoejhanspohontj,hoeuohejhfyjusych gqjspoxxq
zeuohejheuqhgxoh gqjspoxxqhzejghejhyjqhejshx ohxahoejhfe sfehuaojshoej
zjqqngbkhEjhajyohgxzhoeuohejhzuphgxohpntmychfyxpjhoxhejs,hi ohoeuohej
qnqhgxohlgxzhzejsjhejhjgqjqhugqhpejhijbugkhEjhajyohoenphasxthoej
ubxgndngbhpjgpuonxghxahqnrnpnxghoeuohejhjvmjsnjgfjqhuohoeuohngpougokhEj
zuphxaajgqjqhaxshoejhanspohngpougo,hi ohoejhrjschputjhpjfxgqhejhajyo
oeuohejhfx yqhgxohijhxaajgqjqhichejs,hoeuohpejhzuphentpjyakhEjhajyohaxs
oejhanspohtxtjgohuphuhtughajjyphzejg,heurngbhp qqjgychsjfjnrjqhu
rnxyjgohiyxzhasxthijengq,hejho sgphsx gq,hugbschugqhjubjshoxhurjgbj
entpjya,hoxhyxxlhaxshenphugoubxgnpo,hugqhangqphoeuohnohnphejhentpjya
zexheuphuffnqjgouyychpos flhentpjya,hoeuohoejsjhnphgxhxgjhoxhijhugbsc
znoe,hugqhoeuohejht pohm oh mhznoehugqhoschoxhpxxoejhoejhmungk

Gjrjshuaojszusqphqnqhejhajjyhnohznoehp fehngojgpnoc,hi ohoenphanspo
ontjhejhfx yqhgxohaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhbjohxrjshnokhEnphguo suyhajjyngb
 sbjqhenthoxhqjajgqhentpjya,hoxhmsxrjhoxhejshpejhzuphzsxgb;hi ohox
msxrjhejshzsxgbhzx yqhtjughnssnouongbhejshponyyhtxsjhugqhtulngbhoej
s mo sjhbsjuojshoeuohzuphoejhfu pjhxahuyyhenphp aajsngbkhXgjheuino uy
ajjyngbhntmjyyjqhenthoxhbjohsnqhxahoejhiyutjhugqhoxhmupphnohxghoxhejsk
Ugxoejshajjyngb,hjrjghposxgbjs,hntmjyyjqhenthuphw nflychuphmxppniyjhox
ptxxoehxrjshoejhs mo sjhznoex ohyjoongbhnohbsxzhbsjuojskhOxhsjtung
 gqjshp feh gqjpjsrjqhsjmsxufehzuphzsjofejq,hi ohoxhtuljhejshp aajshic
. ponacngbhentpjyahzuphzxspjhponyykhYnljhuhtugheuya-uzuljhnghughubxgc
xahmung,hejhzugojqhoxhojushx o,hoxhayngbhuzuchoejhufengbhmyufj,hugq
fxtngbhoxhenphpjgpjp,hejhajyohoeuohoejhufengbhmyufjhzuphentpjyakhEj
fx yqhqxhgxoengbhi ohoschoxhejymhoejhufengbhmyufjhoxhijushno,hugqhoenp
ejhosnjqhoxhqxk

OejchtuqjhmjufjkhPej,hsjfxbgndngbhoeuohpejhzuphzsxgb,hoex behpejhqnq
gxohpuchpx,hijfutjhojgqjsjshoxhent,hugqhoejchjvmjsnjgfjqhgjz,hsjqx iyjq
eummngjpphnghoejnshyxrjkhI ohoeuohqnqhgxohmsjrjgohp fehw ussjyphasxt
eummjgngbhubung,hugqhjvfjjqngbychxaojghoxx,hxghoejhtxpoh gjvmjfojqhugq
osnrnuyhbsx gqpkhOejpjhw ussjyphasjw jgoychusxpjhasxthoejhaufohoeuo
oejchqnqhgxohcjohlgxzhzeuohzuphxahntmxsougfjhoxhjufehxoejshugqhoeuohuyy
oenphjusychmjsnxqhoejchzjsjhixoehxaojghnghuhiuqhojtmjskhZejghxgjhzuphng
uhbxxqhojtmjs,hugqhoejhxoejshnghuhiuqhojtmjs,hoejhmjufjhzuphgxohisxljg;
i ohzejghixoeheummjgjqhoxhijhnghughnyy-e txs,hw ussjyphpmsugbh mhasxt
p fehngfxtmsjejgpniychosnayngbhfu pjp,hoeuohoejchfx yqhgjrjshsjtjtijs
uaojszusqphzeuohoejcheuqhw ussjyjqhuix okhNohnphos jhoeuohzejghoejc
zjsjhixoehnghuhbxxqhojtmjshoejnshjg.xctjgohxahynajhzuphsjqx iyjqkhI o
ponyyhoenphanspohmjsnxqhxahoejnshtussnjqhynajhzuphuhqnaanf yohontjhaxs
oejtk

Q sngbhuyyhoenphjusychontjhoejcheuqhuhmjf ynusychrnrnqhpjgpjhxa
ojgpnxg,huphnohzjsj,huho bbngbhnghxmmxpnojhqnsjfonxgphxahoejhfeunghic
zenfehoejchzjsjhix gqkhUyoxbjoejshoejnshexgjctxxg—oeuohnphoxhpuc,hoej
txgoehuaojshoejnshzjqqngb—asxthzenfehasxthosuqnonxghYjrnghjvmjfojqhpx
t fe,hzuphgxohtjsjychgxohuhontjhxahpzjjogjpp,hi ohsjtungjqhnghoej
tjtxsnjphxahixoehuphoejhinoojsjpohugqhtxpohe tnynuongbhmjsnxqhnghoejns
ynrjpkhOejchixoehuynljhosnjqhnghyuojshynajhoxhiyxohx ohasxthoejns
tjtxsnjphuyyhoejhtxgposx p,hpeutja yhngfnqjgophxahoeuohtxsinqhmjsnxq,
zejghixoehzjsjhsusjychnghuhgxstuyhasutjhxahtngq,hixoehzjsjhsusjychw noj
oejtpjyrjpk

Nohzuphxgychnghoejhoensqhtxgoehxahoejnshtussnjqhynaj,huaojshoejns
sjo sghasxthTxpfxz,hzejsjhoejcheuqhijjghpoucngbhaxshuhtxgoe,hoeuohoejns
ynajhijbughoxhbxhtxsjhptxxoeyck


Feumojsh15

Oejcheuqh. pohfxtjhiuflhasxthTxpfxz,hugqhzjsjhbyuqhoxhijhuyxgjkhEjhzup
pnoongbhuohoejhzsnongb-ouiyjhnghenphpo qc,hzsnongbkhPej,hzjusngbhoej
quslhynyufhqsjpphpejheuqhzxsghq sngbhoejhanspohqucphxahoejnshtussnjq
ynaj,hugqhm ohxghubunghoxquc,huhqsjpphmusonf yusychsjtjtijsjqhugqhyxrjq
ichent,hzuphpnoongbhxghoejhpxau,hoejhputjhxyq-aupenxgjqhyjuoejshpxau
zenfeheuqhuyzucphpoxxqhnghoejhpo qchnghYjrng’phauoejs’phugq
bsugqauoejs’phqucpkhPejhzuphpjzngbhuoh_isxqjsnjhugbyunpj_khEjhoex beo
ugqhzsxoj,hgjrjshyxpngbhoejheummchfxgpfnx pgjpphxahejshmsjpjgfjkhEnp
zxsl,hixoehxghoejhyugqhugqhxghoejhixxl,hnghzenfehoejhmsngfnmyjphxahoej
gjzhyugqhpcpojthzjsjhoxhijhyunqhqxzg,heuqhgxohijjghuiugqxgjq;hi oh. po
uphaxstjsychoejpjhm sp nophugqhnqjupheuqhpjjtjqhoxhenthmjoochugq
osnrnuyhnghfxtmusnpxghznoehoejhquslgjpphoeuohxrjspmsjuqhuyyhynaj,hgxz
oejchpjjtjqhuph gntmxsougohugqhmjoochnghfxtmusnpxghznoehoejhynajhoeuo
yuchijaxsjhenthp aa pjqhznoehoejhisnyynugohynbeohxaheummngjppkhEjhzjgo
xghznoehenphzxsl,hi ohejhajyohgxzhoeuohoejhfjgojshxahbsurnochxahenp
uoojgonxgheuqhmuppjqhoxhpxtjoengbhjypj,hugqhoeuohfxgpjw jgoychejhyxxljq
uohenphzxslhw nojhqnaajsjgoychugqhtxsjhfyjusyckhAxstjsychoenphzxslheuq
ijjghaxshenthughjpfumjhasxthynajkhAxstjsychejheuqhajyohoeuohznoex o
oenphzxslhenphynajhzx yqhijhoxxhbyxxtckhGxzhoejpjhm sp nophzjsj
gjfjppuschaxshenthoeuohynajhtnbeohgxohijhoxxh gnaxstychisnbeokhOulngb
 mhenphtug pfsnmo,hsjuqngbhoesx behzeuohejheuqhzsnoojg,hejhax gqhznoe
myjup sjhoeuohoejhzxslhzuphzxsoehenphzxslngbhuokhTugchxahenphxyqhnqjup
pjjtjqhoxhenthp mjsay x phugqhjvosjtj,hi ohtugchiyuglphijfutjhqnpongfo
oxhenthzejghejhsjrnjzjqhoejhzexyjhoengbhnghenphtjtxsckhEjhzuphzsnongb
gxzhuhgjzhfeumojshxghoejhfu pjphxahoejhmsjpjgohqnpuposx phfxgqnonxghxa
ubsnf yo sjhnghS ppnukhEjhtungoungjqhoeuohoejhmxrjsochxahS ppnuhusnpjp
gxohtjsjychasxthoejhugxtuyx phqnposni onxghxahyugqjqhmsxmjsochugq
tnpqnsjfojqhsjaxstp,hi ohoeuohzeuoheuqhfxgosni ojqhxahyuojhcjusphox
oenphsjp yohzuphoejhfnrnynduonxghasxthznoex ohuigxstuyychbsuaojqh mxg
S ppnu,hjpmjfnuyychaufnynonjphxahfxtt gnfuonxg,huphsunyzucp,hyjuqngbhox
fjgosuynduonxghnghoxzgp,hoejhqjrjyxmtjgohxahy v sc,hugqhoejhfxgpjw jgo
qjrjyxmtjgohxahtug aufo sjp,hfsjqnohugqhnophuffxtmugntjgohxa
pmjf yuonxg—uyyhoxhoejhqjosntjgohxahubsnf yo sjkhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuo
nghuhgxstuyhqjrjyxmtjgohxahzjuyoehnghuhpouojhuyyhoejpjhmejgxtjguhzx yq
usnpjhxgychzejghuhfxgpnqjsuiyjhutx gohxahyuixsheuqhijjghm ohngox
ubsnf yo sj,hzejghnoheuqhfxtjh gqjshsjb yus,hxshuohyjupohqjangnoj,
fxgqnonxgp;hoeuohoejhzjuyoehxahuhfx goschx beohoxhngfsjupj
msxmxsonxguyyc,hugqhjpmjfnuyychnghp fehuhzuchoeuohxoejshpx sfjphxa
zjuyoehpex yqhgxohx oposnmhubsnf yo sj;hoeuohngheustxgchznoehuhfjsoung
poubjhxahubsnf yo sjhoejsjhpex yqhijhtjugphxahfxtt gnfuonxg
fxssjpmxgqngbhoxhno,hugqhoeuohnghx sh gpjooyjqhfxgqnonxghxahoejhyugq,
sunyzucp,hfuyyjqhngoxhijngbhichmxynonfuyhugqhgxohichjfxgxtnfhgjjqp,
zjsjhmsjtuo sj,hugqhngpojuqhxahmsxtxongbhubsnf yo sj,huphzuphjvmjfojq
xahoejt,hoejchzjsjhfxtmjongbhznoehubsnf yo sjhugqhmsxtxongbhoej
qjrjyxmtjgohxahtug aufo sjphugqhfsjqno,hugqhpxhussjpongbhnophmsxbsjpp;
ugqhoeuoh. pohuphoejhxgj-pnqjqhugqhmsjtuo sjhqjrjyxmtjgohxahxgjhxsbug
nghughugntuyhzx yqhengqjshnophbjgjsuyhqjrjyxmtjgo,hpxhnghoejhbjgjsuy
qjrjyxmtjgohxahzjuyoehnghS ppnu,hfsjqno,haufnynonjphxahfxtt gnfuonxg,
tug aufo sngbhufonrnoc,hngq inouiychgjfjppuschnghJ sxmj,hzejsjhoejcheuq
usnpjghnghoejnshmsxmjshontj,heuqhznoeh phxgychqxgjheust,hichoesxzngb
ngoxhoejhiuflbsx gqhoejhfenjahw jponxghfuyyngbhaxshpjooyjtjgo—oej
w jponxghxahoejhxsbugnduonxghxahubsnf yo sjk

Zenyjhejhzuphzsnongbhenphnqjuphpejhzuphoenglngbhexzh gguo suyychfxsqnuy
ejshe piugqheuqhijjghoxhcx gbhMsngfjhOfeusplc,hzexheuq,hznoehbsjuohzugo
xahoufo,haynsojqhznoehejshoejhquchijaxsjhoejchyjaohTxpfxzkh“Ej’p
.juyx p,”hpejhoex beokh“Bxxqgjpp!hexzhpzjjohugqhpnyychejhnp!hEj’p
.juyx phxahtj!hNahejhlgjzhoeuohNhoenglhgxhtxsjhxahoejthoeughxahMnxos
oejhfxxl,”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhuohenphejuqhugqhsjqhgjflhznoehuhajjyngb
xahmxppjppnxghposugbjhoxhejspjyakh“Oex behno’phuhmnochoxhouljhenthasxt
enphzxslh(i ohejheuphmyjgochxahontj!),hNht pohyxxlhuohenphaufj;hznyyhej
ajjyhN’thyxxlngbhuohent?hNhznpehej’qho sghsx gqhkkkhN’yyh_znyy_hent
ox!”hugqhpejhxmjgjqhejshjcjphznqj,huphoex behoxhngojgpnachoejhngay jgfj
xahejshbudjk

“Cjp,hoejchqsuzhuzuchuyyhoejhpumhugqhbnrjhuhauypjhummjusugfjhxa
msxpmjsnoc,”hejht oojsjq,hpoxmmngbhoxhzsnoj,hugq,hajjyngbhoeuohpejhzup
yxxlngbhuohenthugqhptnyngb,hejhyxxljqhsx gqk

“Zjyy?”hejhw jsnjq,hptnyngb,hugqhbjoongbh mk

“Ejhyxxljqhsx gq,”hpejhoex beok

“No’phgxoengb;hNhzugojqhcx hoxhyxxlhsx gq,”hpejhpunq,hzuofengbhent,hugq
oscngbhoxhb jpphzejoejshejhzuphrjvjqhuohijngbhngojss mojqhxshgxok

“Exzheummchzjhusjhuyxgjhoxbjoejs!—Nhut,hoeuohnp,”hejhpunq,hbxngbh mhox
ejshznoehuhsuqnugohptnyjhxaheummngjppk

“N’th. pohupheummckhN’yyhgjrjshbxhugczejsj,hjpmjfnuyychgxohoxhTxpfxzk”

“Ugqhzeuohzjsjhcx hoenglngbhuix o?”

“N?hNhzuphoenglngbkkkkhGx,hgx,hbxhuyxgb,hbxhxghzsnongb;hqxg’ohisjul
xaa,”hpejhpunq,hm spngbh mhejshynmp,h“ugqhNht pohf ohx ohoejpjhynooyj
exyjphgxz,hqxhcx hpjj?”

Pejhoxxlh mhejshpfnppxsphugqhijbughf oongbhoejthx ok

“Gx;hojyyhtj,hzeuohzuphno?”hejhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhejshugq
zuofengbhoejhongchpfnppxsphtxrngbhsx gqk

“Xe!hzeuohzuphNhoenglngbhuix o?hNhzuphoenglngbhuix ohTxpfxz,huix ohoej
iuflhxahcx shejuqk”

“Zechpex yqhN,hxahuyyhmjxmyj,heurjhp feheummngjpp!hNo’ph gguo suy,hoxx
bxxq,”hejhpunq,hlnppngbhejsheugqk

“Nhajjyhw nojhoejhxmmxpnoj;hoejhijoojshoengbphusj,hoejhtxsjhguo suyhno
pjjtphoxhtjk”

“Ugqhcx ’rjhbxohuhynooyjhf syhyxxpj,”hejhpunq,hfusja yycho sgngbhejs
ejuqhsx gqk

“Uhynooyjhf sy,hxehcjpkhGx,hgx,hzjhusjhi pchuohx shzxsl!”

Zxslhqnqhgxohmsxbsjppha soejs,hugqhoejchqusojqhumusohasxthxgjhugxoejs
ynljhf ymsnophzejghLx dtuhfutjhnghoxhuggx gfjhoeuohojuhzuphsjuqck

“Eurjhoejchfxtjhasxthoejhoxzg?”hYjrnghupljqhLx dtuk

“Oejc’rjh. pohfxtj;hoejc’sjh gmuflngbhoejhoengbpk”

“Fxtjhw nflyc,”hpejhpunqhoxhenthuphpejhzjgohx ohxahoejhpo qc,h“xshjypj
Nhpeuyyhsjuqhcx shyjoojsphznoex ohcx k”

Yjaohuyxgj,huaojshm oongbhenphtug pfsnmophoxbjoejshnghoejhgjzhmxsoaxynx
ix beohichejs,hejhzupejqhenpheugqphuohoejhgjzhzupepougqhznoehoej
jyjbugohanoongbp,hoeuoheuqhuyyhtuqjhoejnshummjusugfjhznoehejskhYjrng
ptnyjqhuohenphxzghoex beop,hugqhpexxlhenphejuqhqnpummsxrngbychuohoexpj
oex beop;huhajjyngbhulnghoxhsjtxspjhasjoojqhentkhOejsjhzuphpxtjoengb
peutja y,hjaajtnguoj,hFum ug,huphejhfuyyjqhnohoxhentpjya,hnghenp
msjpjgohtxqjhxahynajkh“No’phgxohsnbeohoxhbxhxghynljhoenp,”hejhoex beok
“No’yyhpxxghijhoesjjhtxgoep,hugqhN’thqxngbhgjvohoxhgxoengbkhOxquc,
uytxpohaxshoejhanspohontj,hNhpjohoxhzxslhpjsnx pyc,hugqhzeuoheummjgjq?
Nhqnqhgxoengbhi ohijbnghugqhoesxzhnohupnqjkhJrjghtchxsqnguschm sp nophN
eurjhuytxpohbnrjgh mkhXghoejhyugqhNhpfusfjychzuylhxshqsnrjhuix ohuohuyy
oxhyxxlhuaojshoengbpkhJnoejshNhuthyxuoehoxhyjurjhejs,hxshNhpjjhpej’p
q yyhuyxgjkhUgqhNh pjqhoxhoenglhoeuo,hijaxsjhtussnubj,hynajhzuphgxoengb
t fe,hpxtjexzhqnqg’ohfx go,hi ohoeuohuaojshtussnubj,hynajhijbughng
jusgjpokhUgqhejsjhuytxpohoesjjhtxgoepheurjhmuppjq,hugqhNheurjhpmjgohtc
ontjhpxhnqychugqh gmsxanouiyckhGx,hoenphzxg’ohqx;hNht pohijbngkhXa
fx spj,hno’phgxohejshau yokhPej’phgxohoxhiyutjhnghugchzuckhNhx beo
tcpjyahoxhijhanstjs,hoxhtungounghtchtupf yngjhngqjmjgqjgfjhxahufonxg;
xshjypjhNhpeuyyhbjohngoxhp fehzucp,hugqhpej’yyhbjoh pjqhoxhoejthoxxkkkk
Xahfx spjhpej’phgxohoxhiyutj,”hejhoxyqhentpjyak

I ohnohnpheusqhaxshugcxgjhzexhnphqnppuonpanjqhgxohoxhiyutjhpxtjxgj
jypj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoejhmjspxghgjusjpohxahuyyhoxhent,haxshoejhbsx gq
xahenphqnppuonpaufonxgkhUgqhnohrub jychfutjhngoxhYjrng’phtngqhoeuohpej
ejspjyahzuphgxohoxhiyutjh(pejhfx yqhgxohijhoxhiyutjhaxshugcoengb),hi o
zeuohzuphoxhiyutjhzuphejshjq fuonxg,hoxxhp mjsanfnuyhugqhasnrxyx pk
(“OeuohaxxyhOfeusplc:hpejhzugojq,hNhlgxz,hoxhpoxmhent,hi ohqnqg’ohlgxz
exzhoxk”)h“Cjp,humusohasxthejshngojsjpohnghoejhex pjh(oeuohpejheup),
umusohasxthqsjpphugqh_isxqjsnjhugbyunpj_,hpejheuphgxhpjsnx phngojsjpopk
Gxhngojsjpohnghejshzxsl,hnghoejhjpouoj,hnghoejhmjupugop,hgxshnght pnf,
oex behpej’phsuoejshbxxqhuohno,hgxshnghsjuqngbkhPejhqxjphgxoengb,hugq
nphmjsajfoychpuonpanjqk”hYjrng,hnghenphejuso,hfjgp sjqhoenp,hugqhqnq
gxohuphcjoh gqjspougqhoeuohpejhzuphmsjmusngbhaxshoeuohmjsnxqhxa
ufonrnochzenfehzuphoxhfxtjhaxshejshzejghpejhzx yqhuohxgfjhijhoejhznaj
xahejshe piugqhugqhtnposjpphxahoejhex pj,hugqhzx yqhijus,hugqhg spj,
ugqhisngbh mhfenyqsjgkhEjhlgjzhgxohoeuohpejhzuphngpongfonrjychuzusjhxa
oenp,hugqhmsjmusngbhejspjyahaxshoenphontjhxahojssniyjhoxny,hqnqhgxo
sjmsxufehejspjyahaxshoejhtxtjgophxahfusjyjppgjpphugqheummngjpphnghejs
yxrjhoeuohpejhjg.xcjqhgxzhzenyjhbunychi nyqngbhejshgjpohaxshoejha o sjk


Feumojsh16

ZejghYjrnghzjgoh mpounsp,henphznajhzuphpnoongbhgjushoejhgjzhpnyrjs
putxrushijengqhoejhgjzhojuhpjsrnfj,hugq,heurngbhpjooyjqhxyqhUbuaju
Tneuyxrguhuohuhynooyjhouiyjhznoehuha yyhf mhxahoju,hzuphsjuqngbhu
yjoojshasxthQxyyc,hznoehzexthoejchzjsjhnghfxgong uyhugqhasjw jgo
fxssjpmxgqjgfjk

“Cx hpjj,hcx shbxxqhyuqc’phpjooyjqhtjhejsj,hoxyqhtjhoxhpnohuhinohznoe
ejs,”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hptnyngbhuaajfonxguojychuohLnoock

NghoejpjhzxsqphxahUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hYjrnghsjuqhoejhanguyhufohxahoej
qsutuhzenfeheuqhijjghjgufojqhxahyuojhijozjjghejshugqhLnoockhEjhpuz
oeuo,hnghpmnojhxahUbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phajjyngbphijngbhe sohichuhgjz
tnposjpphoulngbhoejhsjngphxahbxrjsgtjgohx ohxahejsheugqp,hLnoocheuqhcjo
fxgw jsjqhejshugqhtuqjhejshyxrjhejsk

“Ejsj,hNhxmjgjqhcx shyjoojshoxx,”hpunqhLnooc,heugqngbhenthughnyynojsuoj
yjoojskh“No’phasxthoeuohzxtug,hNhoengl,hcx shisxoejs’pkkkk”hpejhpunqk
“Nhqnqhgxohsjuqhnohoesx bekhOenphnphasxthtchmjxmyjhugqhasxthQxyyck
Augfc!hQxyychoxxlhOugcuhugqhBsnpeuhoxhuhfenyqsjg’phiuyyhuohoej
Pustuoplcp’:hOugcuhzuphuhAsjgfehtusw npjk”

I ohYjrnghqnqhgxohejushejskhAy pengb,hejhoxxlhoejhyjoojshasxthTuscu
Gnlxyujrgu,henphisxoejs’phaxstjshtnposjpp,hugqhijbughoxhsjuqhnokhOenp
zuphoejhpjfxgqhyjoojshejheuqhsjfjnrjqhasxthTuscuhGnlxyujrgukhNghoej
anspohyjoojs,hTuscuhGnlxyujrguhzsxojhoeuohenphisxoejsheuqhpjgohejshuzuc
axshgxhau yohxahejsp,hugq,hznoehox fengbhpntmynfnoc,huqqjqhoeuohoex be
pejhzuphnghzugohubung,hpejhupljqhaxshgxoengb,hugqhznpejqhaxshgxoengb,
i ohzuphxgychoxstjgojqhichoejhoex beohoeuohGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofehzx yq
fxtjhoxhbsnjahznoex ohejs,hxzngbhoxhoejhzjulhpouojhxahenphejuyoe,hugq
ijbbjqhenphisxoejshoxhyxxlhuaojshentkhGxzhpejhzsxojhw nojhqnaajsjgoyck
Pejheuqhax gqhGnlxyuchQtnosnjrnofe,heuqhubunghtuqjhnoh mhznoehenthng
Txpfxz,hugqheuqhtxrjqhznoehenthoxhuhmsxrngfnuyhoxzg,hzejsjhejheuq
sjfjnrjqhuhmxpohnghoejhbxrjsgtjgohpjsrnfjkhI ohoeuohejheuqhw ussjyjq
znoehoejhejuqhxaanfnuy,hugqhzuphxghenphzuchiuflhoxhTxpfxz,hxgychejheuq
ijjghouljghpxhnyyhxghoejhsxuqhoeuohnohzuphqx ioa yhnahejhzx yqhjrjs
yjurjhenphijqhubung,hpejhzsxojkh“No’phuyzucphxahcx hejheuphouyljq,hugq,
ijpnqjp,hejheuphgxhtxsjhtxgjchyjaok”

“Sjuqhoenp;hQxyychzsnojphuix ohcx ,”hLnoochzuphijbnggngb,hznoehuhptnyj;
i ohpejhpoxmmjqhp qqjgyc,hgxonfngbhoejhfeugbjqhjvmsjppnxghxghejs
e piugq’phaufjk

“Zeuohnphno?hZeuo’phoejhtuoojs?”

“PejhzsnojphoxhtjhoeuohGnlxyuc,htchisxoejs,hnphuohqjuoe’phqxxskhNhpeuyy
bxhoxhentk”

Lnooc’phaufjhfeugbjqhuohxgfjkhOex beophxahOugcuhuphuhtusw npj,hxa
Qxyyc,huyyheuqhrugnpejqk

“Zejghusjhcx hbxngb?”hpejhpunqk

“Oxtxssxzk”

“UgqhNhznyyhbxhznoehcx ,hfughN?”hpejhpunqk

“Lnooc!hZeuohusjhcx hoenglngbhxa?”hejhpunqhsjmsxufea yyck

“Exzhqxhcx htjug?”hxaajgqjqhoeuohejhpex yqhpjjthoxhouljhejshp bbjponxg
 gznyyngbychugqhznoehrjvuonxgkh“Zechpex yqg’ohNhbx?hNhpeug’ohijhnghcx s
zuckhNkkkk”

“N’thbxngbhijfu pjhtchisxoejshnphqcngb,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Zechpex yq
cx kkkk”

“Zec?hAxshoejhputjhsjupxghuphcx k”

“Ugq,huohuhtxtjgohxahp fehbsurnochaxshtj,hpejhxgychoenglphxahejshijngb
q yyhichejspjya,”hoex beohYjrngkhUgqhoenphyuflhxahfugqxshnghuhtuoojshxa
p fehbsurnochnga snuojqhentk

“No’phx ohxahoejhw jponxg,”hejhpunqhpojsgyck

UbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hpjjngbhoeuohnohzuphfxtngbhoxhuhw ussjy,hbjgoychm o
qxzghejshf mhugqhznoeqsjzkhLnoochqnqhgxohjrjghgxonfjhejskhOejhoxgjhng
zenfehejshe piugqheuqhpunqhoejhyupohzxsqphzx gqjqhejs,hjpmjfnuyyc
ijfu pjhejhjrnqjgoychqnqhgxohijynjrjhzeuohpejheuqhpunqk

“Nhojyyhcx ,hoeuohnahcx hbx,hNhpeuyyhfxtjhznoehcx ;hNhpeuyyhfjsoungyc
fxtj,”hpejhpunqheuponychugqhzsuoea yyckh“Zechx ohxahoejhw jponxg?hZec
qxhcx hpuchno’phx ohxahoejhw jponxg?”

“Ijfu pjhno’yyhijhbxngbhBxqhlgxzphzejsj,hichuyyhpxsophxahsxuqphugqhox
uyyhpxsophxahexojypkhCx hzx yqhijhuhengqsugfjhoxhtj,”hpunqhYjrng,
oscngbhoxhijhfxxyk

“GxohuohuyykhNhqxg’ohzugohugcoengbkhZejsjhcx hfughbx,hNhfugkkkk”

“Zjyy,haxshxgjhoengbhoejg,hijfu pjhoenphzxtug’phoejsjhzexthcx hfug’o
tjjok”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhugqhqxg’ohfusjhoxhlgxzhzex’phoejsjhugqhzeuokhNhlgxzhoeuo
tche piugq’phisxoejshnphqcngbhugqhtche piugqhnphbxngbhoxhent,hugqhNhbx
znoehtche piugqhoxxkkkk”

“Lnooc!hQxg’ohbjohugbsckhI oh. pohoenglhuhynooyj:hoenphnphuhtuoojshxa
p fehntmxsougfjhoeuohNhfug’ohijushoxhoenglhoeuohcx hpex yqhisngbhnghu
ajjyngbhxahzjulgjpp,hxahqnpynljhoxhijngbhyjaohuyxgjkhFxtj,hcx ’yyhij
q yyhuyxgj,hpxhbxhugqhpouchuohTxpfxzhuhynooyjk”

“Oejsj,hcx huyzucphupfsnijhiupj,hrnyjhtxonrjphoxhtj,”hpejhpunqhznoe
ojusphxahzx gqjqhmsnqjhugqha sckh“Nhqnqg’ohtjug,hnohzupg’ohzjulgjpp,hno
zupg’ohkkkhNhajjyhoeuohno’phtchq ochoxhijhznoehtche piugqhzejghej’phng
osx iyj,hi ohcx hoschxghm smxpjhoxhe sohtj,hcx hoschxghm smxpjhgxohox
 gqjspougqkkkk”

“Gx;hoenphnphuza y!hOxhijhp fehuhpyurj!”hfsnjqhYjrng,hbjoongbh m,hugq
 guiyjhoxhsjposunghenphugbjshugchyxgbjskhI ohuohoejhputjhpjfxgqhejhajyo
oeuohejhzuphijuongbhentpjyak

“Oejghzechqnqhcx htussc?hCx hfx yqheurjhijjghasjjkhZechqnqhcx ,hnahcx 
sjbsjohno?”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh mhugqhs ggngbhuzuchngoxhoej
qsuzngb-sxxtk

Zejghejhzjgohoxhejs,hpejhzuphpxiingbk

Ejhijbughoxhpmjul,hoscngbhoxhangqhzxsqphgxohoxhqnpp uqjhi ohpntmychox
pxxoejhejskhI ohpejhqnqhgxohejjqhent,hugqhzx yqhgxohubsjjhoxhugcoengbk
Ejhijgohqxzghoxhejshugqhoxxlhejsheugq,hzenfehsjpnpojqhentkhEjhlnppjq
ejsheugq,hlnppjqhejsheuns,hlnppjqhejsheugqhubung—ponyyhpejhzuphpnyjgok
I ohzejghejhoxxlhejshaufjhnghixoehenpheugqphugqhpunqh“Lnooc!”hpej
p qqjgychsjfxrjsjqhejspjya,hugqhijbughoxhfsc,hugqhoejchzjsjhsjfxgfnyjqk

Nohzuphqjfnqjqhoeuohoejchpex yqhbxhoxbjoejshoejhgjvohquckhYjrnghoxyq
enphznajhoeuohejhijynjrjqhpejhzugojqhoxhbxhpntmychnghxsqjshoxhijhxa
 pj,hubsjjqhoeuohTuscuhGnlxyujrgu’phijngbhznoehenphisxoejshqnqhgxohtulj
ejshbxngbhntmsxmjs,hi ohejhpjohxaahuohoejhixooxthxahenphejuso
qnppuonpanjqhixoehznoehejshugqhznoehentpjyakhEjhzuphqnppuonpanjqhznoe
ejshaxshijngbh guiyjhoxhtuljh mhejshtngqhoxhyjohenthbxhzejghnohzup
gjfjppusch(ugqhexzhposugbjhnohzuphaxshenthoxhoenglhoeuohej,hpxhyuojyc
eusqychqusngbhoxhijynjrjhnghp feheummngjpphuphoeuohpejhfx yqhyxrj
ent—gxzhzuph geummchijfu pjhpejhyxrjqhenthoxxht fe!),hugqhejhzup
qnppuonpanjqhznoehentpjyahaxshgxohpexzngbhtxsjhposjgboehxahznyykhJrjg
bsjuojshzuphoejhajjyngbhxahqnpubsjjtjgohuohoejhixooxthxahenphejusohup
oxhejshgxohgjjqngbhoxhfxgpnqjshoejhzxtughzexhzuphznoehenphisxoejs,hugq
ejhoex beohznoehexssxshxahuyyhoejhfxgongbjgfnjphoejchtnbeohtjjohznoek
Oejhtjsjhnqjuhxahenphznaj,henphLnooc,hijngbhnghoejhputjhsxxthznoehu
fxttxghzjgfe,hpjohenthpe qqjsngbhznoehexssxshugqhyxuoengbk


Feumojsh17

OejhexojyhxahoejhmsxrngfnuyhoxzghzejsjhGnlxyuchYjrnghzuphycngbhnyyhzup
xgjhxahoexpjhmsxrngfnuyhexojyphzenfehusjhfxgpos fojqhxghoejhgjzjpo
txqjyhxahtxqjsghntmsxrjtjgop,hznoehoejhijpohngojgonxgphxahfyjugyngjpp,
fxtaxso,hugqhjrjghjyjbugfj,hi ohxzngbhoxhoejhm iynfhoeuohmuosxgndjp
oejt,husjhznoehupox gqngbhsumnqnochosugpaxstjqhngoxhanyoechourjsgphznoe
uhmsjojgpnxghxahtxqjsghntmsxrjtjgohoeuohxgychtuljphoejthzxspjhoeughoej
xyq-aupenxgjq,hexgjpoychanyoechexojypkhOenphexojyheuqhuysjuqchsjufejq
oeuohpoubj,hugqhoejhpxyqnjshnghuhanyoech gnaxsthptxlngbhnghoejhjgosc,
p mmxpjqhoxhpougqhaxshuheuyy-mxsojs,hugqhoejhfupo-nsxg,hpynmmjsc,hqusl,
ugqhqnpubsjjuiyjhpounsfupj,hugqhoejhasjjhugqhjupchzunojshnghuhanyoec
asxflhfxuo,hugqhoejhfxttxghqngngb-sxxthznoehuhq pochix w johxahzuv
ayxzjsphuqxsgngbhoejhouiyj,hugqhanyoe,hq po,hugqhqnpxsqjshjrjsczejsj,
ugqhuohoejhputjhontjhoejhpxsohxahtxqjsgh m-ox-quojhpjya-fxtmyufjgo
sunyzuch gjupngjpphxahoenphexojy,husx pjqhuhtxpohmunga yhajjyngbhng
Yjrnghuaojshoejnshasjpehcx gbhynaj,hjpmjfnuyychijfu pjhoejhntmsjppnxg
xahauypnochtuqjhichoejhexojyhzuphpxhx ohxahljjmngbhznoehzeuohuzunojq
oejtk

Uphnphngrusnuiychoejhfupj,huaojshoejcheuqhijjghupljqhuohzeuohmsnfjhoejc
zugojqhsxxtp,hnohummjusjqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxohxgjhqjfjgohsxxthaxshoejt;
xgjhqjfjgohsxxtheuqhijjghouljghichoejhngpmjfoxshxahsunysxuqp,hugxoejs
ichuhyuzcjshasxthTxpfxz,huhoensqhichMsngfjpphUpouanjruhasxthoej
fx gosckhOejsjhsjtungjqhxgychxgjhanyoechsxxt,hgjvohoxhzenfehoejc
msxtnpjqhoeuohugxoejshpex yqhijhjtmochichoejhjrjgngbkhAjjyngbhugbsc
znoehenphznajhijfu pjhzeuohejheuqhjvmjfojqheuqhfxtjhoxhmupp,hzenfehzup
oeuohuohoejhtxtjgohxahussnruy,hzejghenphejusohoesxiijqhznoehjtxonxghugq
ugvnjochoxhlgxzhexzhenphisxoejshzuphbjoongbhxg,hejhpex yqheurjhoxhij
pjjngbhuaojshejs,hngpojuqhxahs pengbhposunbeohoxhenphisxoejs,hYjrng
fxgq fojqhejshoxhoejhsxxthuppnbgjqhoejtk

“Bx,hqxhbx!”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoehontnqhugqhb nyochjcjpk

Ejhzjgohx ohxahoejhqxxshznoex ohuhzxsq,hugqhuohxgfjhpo tiyjqhxrjshTuscu
Gnlxyujrgu,hzexheuqhejusqhxahenphussnruyhugqheuqhgxohqusjqhoxhbxhnghox
pjjhentkhPejhzuph. pohoejhputjhuphzejghejhpuzhejshnghTxpfxz;hoejhputj
zxxyjghbxzg,hugqhiusjhustphugqhgjfl,hugqhoejhputjhbxxq-guo sjqyc
po mnq,hmxfltusljqhaufj,hxgychuhynooyjhmy tmjsk

“Zjyy,hexzhnphej?hexzhnphej?”

“RjschiuqkhEjhfug’ohbjoh mkhEjheuphljmohjvmjfongbhcx khEjkkkkhUsjhcx 
kkkhznoehcx shznaj?”

Yjrnghqnqhgxohaxshoejhanspohtxtjgoh gqjspougqhzeuohnohzuphfxga pjqhejs,
i ohpejhnttjqnuojychjgynbeojgjqhentk

“N’yyhbxhuzuckhN’yyhbxhqxzghoxhoejhlnofejg,”hpejhisx beohx okh“Gnlxyuc
QtnosnjrnofehznyyhijhqjynbeojqkhEjhejusqhuix ohno,hugqhlgxzphcx shyuqc,
ugqhsjtjtijsphejshuisxuqk”

Yjrnghsjuyndjqhoeuohpejhtjugohenphznaj,hugqhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohugpzjshox
tuljk

“Fxtjhuyxgb,hfxtjhuyxgbhoxhent!”hejhpunqk

I ohuphpxxghuphejhtxrjq,hoejhqxxshxahenphsxxthxmjgjqhugqhLnoochmjjmjq
x okhYjrnghfsntpxgjqhixoehasxthpeutjhugqhugbjshznoehenphznaj,hzexheuq
m ohejspjyahugqhenthnghp fehuhqnaanf yohmxpnonxg;hi ohTuscuhGnlxyujrgu
fsntpxgjqhponyyhtxsjkhPejhmxpnonrjychpesuglhoxbjoejshugqhay pejqhoxhoej
mxngohxahojusp,hugqhfy ofengbhoejhjgqphxahejshumsxghnghixoeheugqp,
oznpojqhoejthnghejshsjqhangbjsphznoex ohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhpuchugqhzeuohox
qxk

AxshoejhanspohngpougohYjrnghpuzhughjvmsjppnxghxahjubjshf snxpnochnghoej
jcjphznoehzenfehLnoochyxxljqhuohoenphuza yhzxtug,hpxhngfxtmsjejgpniyj
oxhejs;hi ohnohyupojqhxgychuhpngbyjhngpougok

“Zjyy!hexzhnphej?”hpejho sgjqhoxhejshe piugqhugqhoejghoxhejsk

“I ohxgjhfug’ohbxhxghouylngbhnghoejhmuppubjhynljhoenp!”hYjrnghpunq,
yxxlngbhugbsnychuohuhbjgoyjtughzexhzuyljqh.u gonychuohoeuohngpougo
ufsxpphoejhfxssnqxs,huphoex behuix ohenphuaaunspk

“Zjyyhoejg,hfxtjhng,”hpunqhLnooc,ho sgngbhoxhTuscuhGnlxyujrgu,hzexheuq
sjfxrjsjqhejspjya,hi ohgxonfngbhejshe piugq’phaufjhxahqnptuc,h“xshbx
xg;hbx,hugqhoejghfxtjhaxshtj,”hpejhpunq,hugqhzjgohiuflhngoxhoejhsxxtk

Yjrnghzjgohoxhenphisxoejs’phsxxtkhEjheuqhgxohnghoejhyjupohjvmjfojqhzeuo
ejhpuzhugqhajyohnghenphisxoejs’phsxxtkhEjheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhangqhenthng
oejhputjhpouojhxahpjya-qjfjmonxghzenfehejheuqhejusqhzuphpxhasjw jgo
znoehoejhfxgp tmonrj,hugqhzenfeheuqhpos flhenthpxht fehq sngbhenp
isxoejs’phrnpnohnghoejhu o tgkhEjheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhangqhoejhmecpnfuy
pnbgphxahoejhummsxufehxahqjuoehtxsjhtusljq—bsjuojshzjulgjpp,hbsjuojs
jtufnuonxg,hi ohponyyhuytxpohoejhputjhfxgqnonxghxahoengbpkhEjheuq
jvmjfojqhentpjyahoxhajjyhoejhputjhqnposjpphuohoejhyxpphxahoejhisxoejs
ejhyxrjqhugqhoejhputjhexssxshnghaufjhxahqjuoehuphejheuqhajyohoejg,hxgyc
nghuhbsjuojshqjbsjjkhUgqhejheuqhmsjmusjqhentpjyahaxshoenp;hi ohejhax gq
pxtjoengbh oojsychqnaajsjgok

Nghuhynooyjhqnsochsxxthznoehoejhmungojqhmugjyphxahnophzuyyphanyoechznoe
pmnooyj,hugqhfxgrjspuonxghu qniyjhoesx behoejhoenghmusononxghasxthoej
gjvohsxxt,hnghuhponayngbhuotxpmejsjhpuo suojqhznoehntm snonjp,hxghu
ijqpojuqhtxrjqhuzuchasxthoejhzuyy,hoejsjhyuchfxrjsjqhznoehuhw nyo,hu
ixqckhXgjhusthxahoenphixqchzuphuixrjhoejhw nyo,hugqhoejhzsnpo,he bjhup
uhsulj-eugqyj,hzuphuooufejq,hngfxgfjnruiychnohpjjtjq,hoxhoejhoeng,hyxgb
ixgjhxahoejhusthptxxoehasxthoejhijbnggngbhoxhoejhtnqqyjkhOejhejuqhyuc
pnqjzucphxghoejhmnyyxzkhYjrnghfx yqhpjjhoejhpfugochyxflphzjohznoehpzjuo
xghoejhojtmyjphugqhojgpj,hosugpmusjgo-yxxlngbhaxsjejuqk

“Nohfuggxohijhoeuohoeuohajusa yhixqchzuphtchisxoejshGnlxyuc?”hoex beo
YjrngkhI ohejhzjgohfyxpjs,hpuzhoejhaufj,hugqhqx iohijfutjhntmxppniyjk
Nghpmnojhxahoejhojssniyjhfeugbjhnghoejhaufj,hYjrngheuqhxgychoxhbyugfj
uohoexpjhjubjshjcjphsunpjqhuohenphummsxufe,hxgychoxhfuofehoejhaungo
txrjtjgohxahoejhtx oeh gqjshoejhponflcht poufej,hoxhsjuyndjhoej
ojssniyjhos oehoeuohoenphqjuoe-ynljhixqchzuphenphynrngbhisxoejsk

Oejhbynoojsngbhjcjphyxxljqhpojsgychugqhsjmsxufea yychuohenphisxoejshup
ejhqsjzhgjuskhUgqhnttjqnuojychoenphbyugfjhjpouiynpejqhuhynrngb
sjyuonxgpenmhijozjjghynrngbhtjgkhYjrnghnttjqnuojychajyohoejhsjmsxufehng
oejhjcjphanvjqhxghent,hugqhajyohsjtxspjhuohenphxzgheummngjppk

ZejghLxgpougonghoxxlhenthichoejheugq,hGnlxyuchptnyjqkhOejhptnyjhzup
aungo,hpfusfjychmjsfjmoniyj,hugqhnghpmnojhxahoejhptnyjhoejhpojsg
jvmsjppnxghxahoejhjcjphzuph gfeugbjqk

“Cx hqnqhgxohjvmjfohoxhangqhtjhynljhoenp,”hejhusonf yuojqhznoehjaaxsok

“Cjphkkkhgx,”hpunqhYjrng,hejpnouongbhxrjshenphzxsqpkh“Exzhzuphnohcx 
qnqg’ohyjohtjhlgxzhijaxsj,hoeuohnp,huohoejhontjhxahtchzjqqngb?hNhtuqj
ngw nsnjphnghuyyhqnsjfonxgpk”

Ejheuqhoxhouylhpxhuphgxohoxhijhpnyjgo,hugqhejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhpuc,
jpmjfnuyychuphenphisxoejshtuqjhgxhsjmyc,hugqhpntmychpousjqhznoex o
qsxmmngbhenphjcjp,hugqhjrnqjgoychmjgjosuojqhoxhoejhnggjshtjugngbhxa
jufehzxsqkhYjrnghoxyqhenphisxoejshoeuohenphznajheuqhfxtjhznoehentk
Gnlxyuchjvmsjppjqhmyjup sj,hi ohpunqhejhzuphuasunqhxahasnbeojgngbhejs
ichenphfxgqnonxgkhUhpnyjgfjhaxyyxzjqkhP qqjgychGnlxyuchponssjq,hugq
ijbughoxhpuchpxtjoengbkhYjrnghjvmjfojqhpxtjoengbhxahmjf ynushbsurnoc
ugqhntmxsougfjhasxthoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphaufj,hi ohGnlxyuchijbug
pmjulngbhxahenphejuyoekhEjhax gqhau yohznoehoejhqxfoxs,hsjbsjoongbhej
euqhgxohuhfjyjisuojqhTxpfxzhqxfoxskhYjrnghpuzhoeuohejhponyyhexmjqk

Pjndngbhoejhanspohtxtjgohxahpnyjgfj,hYjrnghbxoh m,hugvnx phoxhjpfumj,
nahxgychaxshughngpougo,hasxthenphubxgndngbhjtxonxg,hugqhpunqhoeuohej
zx yqhbxhugqhajofehenphznajk

“Rjschzjyy,hugqhN’yyhojyyhejshoxhonqch mhejsjkhNo’phqnsochugqhponglngb
ejsj,hNhjvmjfokhTuscu!hfyjush mhoejhsxxt,”hoejhpnflhtughpunqhznoe
jaaxsokh“Xe,hugqhzejghcx ’rjhfyjusjqh m,hbxhuzuchcx spjya,”hejhuqqjq,
yxxlngbhngw nsngbychuohenphisxoejsk

YjrnghtuqjhgxhugpzjskhBxngbhx ohngoxhoejhfxssnqxs,hejhpoxmmjqhpexsokhEj
euqhpunqhejhzx yqhajofehenphznaj,hi ohgxz,houlngbhpoxflhxahoejhjtxonxg
ejhzuphajjyngb,hejhqjfnqjqhoeuohejhzx yqhoschxghoejhfxgosuschox
mjsp uqjhejshgxohoxhbxhnghoxhoejhpnflhtugkh“Zechpex yqhpejhp aajshuphN
uthp aajsngb?”hejhoex beok

“Zjyy,hexzhnphej?”hLnoochupljqhznoehuhasnbeojgjqhaufjk

“Xe,hno’phuza y,hno’phuza y!hZeuohqnqhcx hfxtjhaxs?”hpunqhYjrngk

Lnoochzuphpnyjgohaxshuhajzhpjfxgqp,hyxxlngbhontnqychugqhs ja yychuohejs
e piugq;hoejghpejhzjgoh mhugqhoxxlhenthichoejhjyixzhznoehixoeheugqpk

“Lxpocu!houljhtjhoxhent;hnohznyyhijhjupnjshaxsh phoxhijushnohoxbjoejsk
Cx hxgychouljhtj,houljhtjhoxhent,hmyjupj,hugqhbxhuzuc,”hpejhpunqkh“Cx 
t poh gqjspougqhoeuohaxshtjhoxhpjjhcx ,hugqhgxohoxhpjjhent,hnphaushtxsj
munga ykhOejsjhNhtnbeohijhuhejymhoxhcx hugqhoxhentkhMyjupj,hyjohtj!”
pejhijpx beohejshe piugq,huphoex behoejheummngjpphxahejshynajhqjmjgqjq
xghnok

Yjrnghzuphxiynbjqhoxhubsjj,hugqhsjbungngbhenphfxtmxp sj,hugqhfxtmyjojyc
axsbjoongbhuix ohTuscuhGnlxyujrguhichgxz,hejhzjgohubunghnghoxhenp
isxoejshznoehLnoock

Pojmmngbhynbeoyc,hugqhfxgong uyychbyugfngbhuohejshe piugq,hpexzngbhent
uhruyxsx phugqhpctmuoejonfhaufj,hLnoochzjgohngoxhoejhpnfl-sxxt,hugq,
o sgngbhznoex oheupoj,hgxnpjyjppychfyxpjqhoejhqxxskhZnoehngu qniyj
pojmphpejhzjgohw nflychoxhoejhpnflhtug’phijqpnqj,hugqhbxngbh mhpxhoeuo
ejheuqhgxohoxho sghenphejuq,hpejhnttjqnuojychfyupmjqhnghejshasjpehcx gb
eugqhoejhpljyjoxghxahenphe bjheugq,hmsjppjqhno,hugqhijbughpmjulngbhznoe
oeuohpxaohjubjsgjpp,hpctmuoejonfhugqhgxoh.ussngb,hzenfehnphmjf ynushox
zxtjgk

“Zjheurjhtjo,hoex behzjhzjsjhgxohufw ungojq,huohPxqjg,”hpejhpunqkh“Cx 
gjrjshoex beohNhzuphoxhijhcx shpnpojs?”

“Cx hzx yqhgxoheurjhsjfxbgndjqhtj?”hejhpunq,hznoehuhsuqnugohptnyjhuo
ejshjgosugfjk

“Cjp,hNhpex yqkhZeuohuhbxxqhoengbhcx hyjoh phlgxz!hGxohuhqucheuphmuppjq
oeuohLxpocuheuphgxohtjgonxgjqhcx ,hugqhijjghugvnx pk”

I ohoejhpnflhtug’phngojsjpohqnqhgxohyupohyxgbk

Ijaxsjhpejheuqhangnpejqhpmjulngb,hoejsjheuqhfxtjhiuflhngoxhenphaufjhoej
pojsg,hsjmsxufea yhjvmsjppnxghxahoejhqcngbhtug’phjgrchxahoejhynrngbk

“Nhuthuasunqhcx husjhgxohw nojhfxtaxsouiyjhejsj,”hpejhpunq,ho sgngb
uzuchasxthenphanvjqhpousj,hugqhyxxlngbhuix ohoejhsxxtkh“Zjht pohupl
uix ohugxoejshsxxt,”hpejhpunqhoxhejshe piugq,h“pxhoeuohzjhtnbeohij
gjusjsk”


Feumojsh18

Yjrnghfx yqhgxohyxxlhfuytychuohenphisxoejs;hejhfx yqhgxohentpjyahij
guo suyhugqhfuythnghenphmsjpjgfjkhZejghejhzjgohnghoxhoejhpnflhtug,henp
jcjphugqhenphuoojgonxghzjsjh gfxgpfnx pychqnttjq,hugqhejhqnqhgxohpjj
ugqhqnqhgxohqnpongb npehoejhqjounyphxahenphisxoejs’phmxpnonxgkhEjhptjyo
oejhuza yhxqxs,hpuzhoejhqnso,hqnpxsqjs,hugqhtnpjsuiyjhfxgqnonxg,hugq
ejusqhoejhbsxugp,hugqhajyohoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhijhqxgjhoxhejymkhNohgjrjs
jgojsjqhenphejuqhoxhuguycdjhoejhqjounyphxahoejhpnflhtug’phpno uonxg,hox
fxgpnqjshexzhoeuohixqchzuphycngbh gqjshoejhw nyo,hexzhoexpjhjtufnuojq
yjbphugqhoenbephugqhpmngjhzjsjhycngbhe qqyjqh m,hugqhzejoejshoejchfx yq
gxohijhtuqjhtxsjhfxtaxsouiyj,hzejoejshugcoengbhfx yqhgxohijhqxgjhox
tuljhoengbp,hnahgxohijoojs,huohyjupohyjpphiuqkhNohtuqjhenphiyxxqhs g
fxyqhzejghejhijbughoxhoenglhxahuyyhoejpjhqjounypkhEjhzuphuipxy ojyc
fxgrngfjqhoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhijhqxgjhoxhmsxyxgbhenphisxoejs’phynajhxs
oxhsjynjrjhenphp aajsngbkhI ohuhpjgpjhxahenphsjbusqngbhuyyhunqhuphx o
xahoejhw jponxghzuphajyohichoejhpnflhtug,hugqhjvupmjsuojqhentkhUgqhoenp
tuqjhnohponyyhtxsjhmunga yhaxshYjrngkhOxhijhnghoejhpnfl-sxxthzuphubxgc
oxhent,hgxohoxhijhoejsjhponyyhzxspjkhUgqhejhzuphfxgong uyyc,hxghrusnx p
msjojvop,hbxngbhx ohxahoejhsxxt,hugqhfxtngbhnghubung,hijfu pjhejhzup
 guiyjhoxhsjtunghuyxgjk

I ohLnoochoex beo,hugqhajyo,hugqhufojqhw nojhqnaajsjgoyckhXghpjjngbhoej
pnflhtug,hpejhmnonjqhentkhUgqhmnochnghejshzxtugychejusohqnqhgxohusx pj
uohuyyhoeuohajjyngbhxahexssxshugqhyxuoengbhoeuohnohusx pjqhnghejs
e piugq,hi ohuhqjpnsjhoxhufo,hoxhangqhx ohuyyhoejhqjounyphxahenphpouoj,
ugqhoxhsjtjqchoejtkhUgqhpngfjhpejheuqhgxohoejhpynbeojpohqx iohoeuohno
zuphejshq ochoxhejymhent,hpejheuqhgxhqx iohjnoejshoeuohnohzuphmxppniyj,
ugqhnttjqnuojychpjohoxhzxslkhOejhrjschqjounyp,hoejhtjsjhoex beohxa
zenfehsjq fjqhejshe piugqhoxhojssxs,hnttjqnuojychjgbubjqhejshuoojgonxgk
Pejhpjgohaxshoejhqxfoxs,hpjgohoxhoejhfejtnpo’p,hpjohoejhtunqhzexheuq
fxtjhznoehejshugqhTuscuhGnlxyujrguhoxhpzjjmhugqhq pohugqhpfs i;hpej
ejspjyahzupejqh mhpxtjoengb,hzupejqhx ohpxtjoengbhjypj,hyunqhpxtjoengb
 gqjshoejhw nyokhPxtjoengbhzuphichejshqnsjfonxgphisx beohngoxhoej
pnfl-sxxt,hpxtjoengbhjypjhzuphfussnjqhx okhPejhejspjyahzjgohpjrjsuy
ontjphoxhejshsxxt,hsjbusqyjpphxahoejhtjghpejhtjohnghoejhfxssnqxs,hbxo
x ohugqhisx beohnghpejjop,hmnyyxzhfupjp,hoxzjyp,hugqhpensopk

Oejhzunojs,hzexhzuphi pchznoehuhmusochxahjgbngjjsphqngngbhnghoejhqngngb
euyy,hfutjhpjrjsuyhontjphznoehughnsuojhfx gojgugfjhnghugpzjshoxhejs
p ttxgp,hugqhfx yqhgxohurxnqhfusscngbhx ohejshxsqjsp,huphpejhburjhoejt
znoehp fehbsufnx phngpnpojgfjhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhjruqngbhejskhYjrnghqnq
gxohummsxrjhxahuyyhoenp;hejhqnqhgxohijynjrjhnohzx yqhijhxahugchbxxqhox
oejhmuonjgokhUixrjhuyy,hejhajusjqhoejhmuonjgohzx yqhijhugbschuohnokhI o
oejhpnflhtug,hoex behejhpjjtjqhugqhzuphngqnaajsjgohuix ohno,hzuphgxo
ugbsc,hi ohxgychuiupejq,hugqhxghoejhzexyjhuphnohzjsjhngojsjpojqhnghzeuo
pejhzuphqxngbhznoehentkhFxtngbhiuflhasxthoejhqxfoxshoxhzexthLnoocheuq
pjgohent,hYjrng,hxghxmjgngbhoejhqxxs,hfutjh mxghoejhpnflhtughuohoej
ngpougohzejg,hichLnooc’phqnsjfonxgp,hoejchzjsjhfeugbngbhenphyngjgkhOej
yxgbhzenojhsnqbjhxahenphpmngj,hznoehoejhe bj,hmsxtngjgohpex yqjshiyuqjp
ugqh. oongbhsniphugqhrjsojisuj,hzuphiusj,hugqhTuscuhGnlxyujrguhugqhoej
zunojshzjsjhpos bbyngbhznoehoejhpyjjrjhxahoejhgnbeohpenso,hugqhfx yq
gxohbjohoejhyxgb,hyntmhusthngoxhnokhLnooc,he ssnjqychfyxpngbhoejhqxxs
uaojshYjrng,hzuphgxohyxxlngbhoeuohzuc;hi ohoejhpnflhtughbsxugjq,hugq
pejhtxrjqhsumnqychoxzusqphentk

“Tuljheupoj,”hpejhpunqk

“Xe,hqxg’ohcx hfxtj,”hpunqhoejhpnflhtughugbsnyckh“N’yyhqxhnohtc
tcpjyakkkk”

“Zeuohpuc?”hw jsnjqhTuscuhGnlxyujrgukhI ohLnoochejusqhugqhpuzhejhzup
upeutjqhugqh gfxtaxsouiyjhuohijngbhguljqhijaxsjhejsk

“N’thgxohyxxlngb,hN’thgxohyxxlngb!”hpejhpunq,hm oongbhoejhusthngk
“TuscuhGnlxyujrgu,hcx hfxtjhoenphpnqj,hcx hqxhno,”hpejhuqqjqk

“Myjupjhbxhaxshtj,hoejsj’phuhynooyjhixooyjhnghtchptuyyhiub,”hpejhpunq,
o sgngbhoxhejshe piugq,h“cx hlgxz,hnghoejhpnqjhmxfljo;hisngbhno,
myjupj,hugqhtjugzenyjhoejc’yyhangnpehfyjusngbh mhejsjk”

Sjo sgngbhznoehoejhixooyj,hYjrnghax gqhoejhpnflhtughpjooyjqhfxtaxsouiyc
ugqhjrjscoengbhuix ohenthfxtmyjojychfeugbjqkhOejhejurchptjyyhzup
sjmyufjqhichoejhptjyyhxahusxtuonfhrngjbus,hzenfehLnoochznoehmx ongb
ynmphugqhm aajq-x o,hsxpchfejjlphzuphpw nsongbhoesx behuhynooyjhmnmjk
Oejsjhzuphgxhq pohrnpniyjhugczejsj,huhs bhzuphyunqhichoejhijqpnqjkhXg
oejhouiyjhpoxxqhtjqnfngjhixooyjphugqhqjfugojsphonqnychussugbjq,hugqhoej
yngjghgjjqjqhzuphaxyqjqh mhoejsj,hugqhLnooc’ph_isxqjsnjhugbyunpj_khXg
oejhxoejshouiyjhichoejhmuonjgo’phijqhoejsjhzjsjhfugqyjphugqhqsnglhugq
mxzqjspkhOejhpnflhtughentpjya,hzupejqhugqhfxtijq,hyuchnghfyjughpejjop
xghenbehsunpjqhmnyyxzp,hnghuhfyjughgnbeo-pensohznoehuhzenojhfxyyus
uix ohenphupox gqngbychoenghgjfl,hugqhznoehuhgjzhjvmsjppnxghxahexmj
yxxljqhanvjqychuohLnoock

Oejhqxfoxshisx beohichYjrng,hugqhax gqhichenthuohoejhfy i,hzuphgxohoej
xgjhzexheuqhijjghuoojgqngbhGnlxyuchYjrng,huphoejhmuonjgohzup
qnppuonpanjqhznoehentkhOejhgjzhqxfoxshoxxlh mhuhpojoexpfxmjhugqhpx gqjq
oejhmuonjgo,hpexxlhenphejuq,hmsjpfsnijqhtjqnfngj,hugqhznoehjvosjtj
tng ojgjpphjvmyungjqhanspohexzhoxhouljhoejhtjqnfngjhugqhoejghzeuohqnjo
zuphoxhijhljmohoxkhEjhuqrnpjqhjbbp,hsuzhxsheusqychfxxljq,hugqhpjyodjs
zuojs,hznoehzusthtnylhuohuhfjsounghojtmjsuo sjkhZejghoejhqxfoxsheuq
bxgjhuzuchoejhpnflhtughpunqhpxtjoengbhoxhenphisxoejs,hxahzenfehYjrng
fx yqhqnpongb npehxgychoejhyupohzxsqp:h“Cx shLuocuk”hIchoejhjvmsjppnxg
znoehzenfehejhbudjqhuohejs,hYjrnghpuzhoeuohejhzuphmsunpngbhejskhEj
fuyyjqhngqjjqhoxhLuocu,huphejhfuyyjqhejsk

“N’tht fehijoojshuysjuqc,”hejhpunqkh“Zec,hznoehcx hNhpex yqheurjhbxo
zjyyhyxgbhubxkhExzhgnfjhnohnp!”hejhoxxlhejsheugqhugqhqsjzhnohoxzusqp
enphynmp,hi ohuphoex behuasunqhpejhzx yqhqnpynljhnohejhfeugbjqhenp
tngq,hyjohnohbx,hugqhxgychposxljqhnokhLnoochoxxlhenpheugqhnghixoehejsp
ugqhmsjppjqhnok

“Gxzho sghtjhxrjshxghoejhyjaohpnqjhugqhbxhoxhijq,”hejhpunqk

Gxhxgjhfx yqhtuljhx ohzeuohejhpunqhi ohLnooc;hpejhuyxgjh gqjspoxxqkhPej
 gqjspoxxqhijfu pjhpejhzuphuyyhoejhzenyjhtjgouyychljjmngbhzuofehxghzeuo
ejhgjjqjqk

“Xghoejhxoejshpnqj,”hpejhpunqhoxhejshe piugq,h“ejhuyzucphpyjjmphxghoeuo
pnqjkhO sghenthxrjs,hno’phpxhqnpubsjjuiyjhfuyyngbhoejhpjsrugopkhN’thgxo
posxgbhjgx bekhFughcx ?”hpejhpunqhoxhTuscuhGnlxyujrguk

“N’thuasunqhgxo,”hugpzjsjqhTuscuhGnlxyujrguk

OjssniyjhuphnohzuphoxhYjrnghoxhm ohenphustphsx gqhoeuohojssniyjhixqc,
oxhouljhexyqhxahoeuoh gqjshoejhw nyo,hxahzenfehejhmsjajssjqhoxhlgxz
gxoengb,h gqjshenphznaj’phngay jgfjhejhtuqjhenphsjpxy ojhaufjhoeuohpej
lgjzhpxhzjyy,hugqhm oongbhenphustphngoxhoejhijqhoxxlhexyqhxahoejhixqc,
i ohnghpmnojhxahenphxzghposjgboehejhzuphpos flhichoejhposugbjhejurngjpp
xahoexpjhmxzjsyjpphyntipkhZenyjhejhzupho sgngbhenthxrjs,hfxgpfnx phxa
oejhe bjhjtufnuojqhusthuix ohenphgjfl,hLnoochpznaoychugqhgxnpjyjppyc
o sgjqhoejhmnyyxz,hijuohnoh mhugqhpjooyjqhnghnohoejhpnflhtug’phejuq,
ptxxoengbhiuflhenpheuns,hzenfehzuphponflngbhubunghoxhenphtxnpohisxzk

Oejhpnflhtughljmohenphisxoejs’pheugqhnghenphxzgkhYjrnghajyohoeuohej
tjugohoxhqxhpxtjoengbhznoehenpheugqhugqhzuphm yyngbhnohpxtjzejsjkhYjrng
cnjyqjqhznoehuhpnglngbhejuso:hcjp,hejhqsjzhnohoxhenphtx oehugqhlnppjq
nokhYjrng,hpeulngbhznoehpxiphugqh guiyjhoxhusonf yuojhuhzxsq,hzjgohx o
xahoejhsxxtk


Feumojsh19

“Oex heupohenqhoejpjhoengbphasxthoejhznpjhugqhms qjgo,hugqheupo
sjrjuyjqhoejth goxhiuijpk”hPxhYjrnghoex beohuix ohenphznajhuphejhouyljq
oxhejshoeuohjrjgngbk

Yjrnghoex beohxahoejhojvo,hgxohijfu pjhejhfxgpnqjsjqhentpjyah“znpjhugq
ms qjgok”hEjhqnqhgxohpxhfxgpnqjshentpjya,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohejymhlgxzngb
oeuohejheuqhtxsjhngojyyjfohoeughenphznajhugqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hugqhej
fx yqhgxohejymhlgxzngbhoeuohzejghejhoex beohxahqjuoe,hejhoex beohznoe
uyyhoejhaxsfjhxahenphngojyyjfokhEjhlgjzhoxxhoeuohoejhisungphxahtugc
bsjuohtjg,hzexpjhoex beophejheuqhsjuq,heuqhisxxqjqhxrjshqjuoehugqhcjo
lgjzhgxohuhe gqsjqoehmusohxahzeuohenphznajhugqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguhlgjz
uix ohnokhQnaajsjgohuphoexpjhozxhzxtjghzjsj,hUbuajuhTneuyxrguhugq
Luocu,huphenphisxoejshGnlxyucheuqhfuyyjqhejs,hugqhuphYjrnghmusonf yusyc
ynljqhoxhfuyyhejshgxz,hoejchzjsjhw nojhuynljhnghoenpkhIxoehlgjz,
znoex ohuhpeuqjhxahqx io,hzeuohpxsohxahoengbhynajhzuphugqhzeuohzup
qjuoe,hugqhoex behgjnoejshxahoejthfx yqheurjhugpzjsjq,hugqhzx yqhjrjg
gxoheurjh gqjspoxxqhoejhw jponxgphoeuohmsjpjgojqhoejtpjyrjphoxhYjrng,
ixoeheuqhgxhqx iohxahoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoenphjrjgo,hugqhzjsjhmsjfnpjyc
uynljhnghoejnshzuchxahyxxlngbhuohno,hzenfehoejchpeusjqhznoehtnyynxgphxa
mjxmyjkhOejhmsxxahoeuohoejchlgjzhaxshuhfjsoungochoejhguo sjhxahqjuoe
yuchnghoejhaufohoeuohoejchlgjzhznoex ohuhpjfxgqhxahejpnouonxghexzhox
qjuyhznoehoejhqcngb,hugqhzjsjhgxohasnbeojgjqhxahoejtkhYjrnghugqhxoejs
tjghynljhent,hoex behoejchfx yqheurjhpunqhuhbsjuohqjuyhuix ohqjuoe,
xirnx pychqnqhgxohlgxzhoenphpngfjhoejchzjsjhuasunqhxahqjuoe,hugqhzjsj
uipxy ojychuohuhyxpphzeuohoxhqxhzejghmjxmyjhzjsjhqcngbkhNahYjrngheuq
ijjghuyxgjhgxzhznoehenphisxoejshGnlxyuc,hejhzx yqheurjhyxxljqhuohent
znoehojssxs,hugqhznoehponyyhbsjuojshojssxshzunojq,hugqhzx yqhgxoheurj
lgxzghzeuohjypjhoxhqxk

Txsjhoeughoeuo,hejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhpuc,hexzhoxhyxxl,hexzhoxhtxrjk
Oxhouylhxahx opnqjhoengbphpjjtjqhoxhenthpexflngb,hntmxppniyj,hoxhouyl
xahqjuoehugqhqjmsjppngbhp i.jfop—uypxhntmxppniyjkhOxhijhpnyjgo,huypx
ntmxppniyjkh“NahNhyxxlhuohenthejhznyyhoenglhNhuthpo qcngbhent,hNhut
uasunq;hnahNhqxg’ohyxxlhuohent,hej’yyhoenglhN’thoenglngbhxahxoejs
oengbpkhNahNhzuylhxghonmoxj,hejhznyyhijhrjvjq;hoxhosjuqhanstyc,hN’t
upeutjqk”hLnoochjrnqjgoychqnqhgxohoenglhxahejspjya,hugqheuqhgxhontjhox
oenglhuix ohejspjya:hpejhzuphoenglngbhuix ohenthijfu pjhpejhlgjz
pxtjoengb,hugqhuyyhzjgohzjyykhPejhoxyqhenthuix ohejspjyahjrjghugqhuix o
ejshzjqqngb,hugqhptnyjqhugqhpctmuoendjqhznoehenthugqhmjoojqhent,hugq
ouyljqhxahfupjphxahsjfxrjschugqhuyyhzjgohzjyy;hpxhoejghpejht pohlgxzk
OejhmsxxahoeuohejshijeurnxshugqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phzuphgxohngpongfonrj,
ugntuy,hnssuonxguy,hzuphoeuohumusohasxthoejhmecpnfuyhosjuotjgo,hoej
sjynjahxahp aajsngb,hixoehUbuajuhTneuyxrguhugqhLnoochsjw nsjqhaxshoej
qcngbhtughpxtjoengbhjypjhtxsjhntmxsougohoeughoejhmecpnfuyhosjuotjgo,
ugqhpxtjoengbhzenfeheuqhgxoengbhnghfxttxghznoehmecpnfuyhfxgqnonxgpk
UbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hpmjulngbhxahoejhtugh. pohqjuq,heuqhpunq:h“Zjyy,hoeugl
Bxq,hejhoxxlhoejhpufsutjgohugqhsjfjnrjqhuipxy onxg;hBxqhbsugohjufehxgj
xah php fehuhqjuoek”hLuocuhngh. pohoejhputjhzuc,hijpnqjphuyyhejshfusj
uix ohyngjg,hijqpxsjp,hqsngl,hax gqhontjhoejhrjschanspohquchoxhmjsp uqj
oejhpnflhtughxahoejhgjfjppnochxahoulngbhoejhpufsutjgohugqhsjfjnrngb
uipxy onxgk

Xghbjoongbhiuflhasxthoejhpnfl-sxxthoxhoejnshxzghozxhsxxtphaxshoej
gnbeo,hYjrnghpuohznoeheugbngbhejuqhgxohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhqxkhGxohoxhpmjul
xahp mmjs,hxahmsjmusngbhaxshijq,hxahfxgpnqjsngbhzeuohoejchzjsjhbxngbhox
qx,hejhfx yqhgxohjrjghouylhoxhenphznaj;hejhzuphupeutjqhoxkhLnooc,hxg
oejhfxgosusc,hzuphtxsjhufonrjhoeugh p uykhPejhzuphjrjghynrjynjshoeug
 p uykhPejhxsqjsjqhp mmjshoxhijhisx beo,hejspjyah gmufljqhoejnshoengbp,
ugqhejspjyahejymjqhoxhtuljhoejhijqp,hugqhqnqhgxohjrjghaxsbjohox
pmsnglyjhoejthznoehMjspnughmxzqjskhPejhpexzjqhoeuohuyjsogjpp,hoeuo
pznaogjpphxahsjayjfonxghzenfehfxtjphx ohnghtjghijaxsjhuhiuooyj,hng
fxgaynfo,hnghoejhqugbjsx phugqhqjfnpnrjhtxtjgophxahynaj—oexpjhtxtjgop
zejghuhtughpexzphxgfjhugqhaxshuyyhenphruy j,hugqhoeuohuyyhenphmupoheup
gxohijjghzupojqhi oheuphijjghuhmsjmusuonxghaxshoejpjhtxtjgopk

Jrjscoengbhzjgohsumnqychnghejsheugqp,hugqhijaxsjhnohzuphozjyrjhx’fyxfl
uyyhoejnshoengbphzjsjhussugbjqhfyjugychugqhonqnychnghejshsxxtp,hnghp fe
uhzuchoeuohoejhexojyhsxxtphpjjtjqhynljhextj:hoejhijqphzjsjhtuqj,
is pejp,hfxtip,hyxxlngb-byuppjphzjsjhm ohx o,houiyjhgumlngphzjsj
pmsjuqk

Yjrnghajyohoeuohnohzuph gmusqxguiyjhoxhjuo,hoxhpyjjm,hoxhouylhjrjghgxz,
ugqhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohjrjschtxrjtjgohejhtuqjhzuph gpjjtyckhPej
ussugbjqhoejhis pejp,hi ohpejhqnqhnohuyyhpxhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxoengb
pexflngbhnghnok

Oejchfx yqhgjnoejshxahoejthjuo,hexzjrjs,hugqhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhoejc
fx yqhgxohpyjjm,hugqhqnqhgxohjrjghbxhoxhijqk

“NhuthrjschbyuqhNhmjsp uqjqhenthoxhsjfjnrjhjvosjtjh gfonxghoxtxssxz,”
pejhpunq,hpnoongbhnghejshqsjppngbh.ufljohijaxsjhejshaxyqngb
yxxlngb-byupp,hfxtingbhejshpxao,hasubsugoheunshznoehuhangjhfxtikh“N
eurjhgjrjshpjjghno,hi ohNhlgxz,htuttuheuphoxyqhtj,hoejsjhusjhmsucjsp
punqhaxshsjfxrjsck”

“Qxhcx hp mmxpjhejhfughmxppniychsjfxrjs?”hpunqhYjrng,hzuofengbhu
pyjgqjshosjpphuohoejhiuflhxahejshsx gqhynooyjhejuqhoeuohzuphfxgong uyyc
enqqjghzejghpejhmuppjqhoejhfxtihoesx behoejhasxgok

“Nhupljqhoejhqxfoxs;hejhpunqhejhfx yqg’ohynrjhtxsjhoeughoesjjhqucpkhI o
fughoejchijhp sj?hN’thrjschbyuq,hugczuc,hoeuohNhmjsp uqjqhent,”hpej
punq,hyxxlngbhuplugfjhuohejshe piugqhoesx behejsheunskh“Ugcoengbhnp
mxppniyj,”hpejhuqqjqhznoehoeuohmjf ynus,hsuoejshpychjvmsjppnxghoeuohzup
uyzucphnghejshaufjhzejghpejhpmxljhxahsjynbnxgk

Pngfjhoejnshfxgrjspuonxghuix ohsjynbnxghzejghoejchzjsjhjgbubjqhgjnoejs
xahoejtheuqhjrjshpousojqhuhqnpf ppnxghxahoejhp i.jfo,hi ohpejhmjsaxstjq
uyyhoejhfjsjtxgnjphxahbxngbhoxhfe sfe,hpucngbhejshmsucjsp,hugqhpxhxg,
uyzucphznoehoejh gruscngbhfxgrnfonxghoeuohoenphx beohoxhijhpxkhNghpmnoj
xahenphuppjsonxghoxhoejhfxgosusc,hpejhzuphanstychmjsp uqjqhoeuohejhzup
upht fehuhFesnponughuphpej,hugqhngqjjqhuhaushijoojshxgj;hugqhuyyhoeuo
ejhpunqhuix ohnohzuphpntmychxgjhxahenphuip sqhtupf yngjhasjulp,h. pohup
ejhzx yqhpuchuix ohejsh_isxqjsnjhugbyunpj_hoeuohbxxqhmjxmyjhmuofe
exyjp,hi ohoeuohpejhf ohoejthxghm smxpj,hugqhpxhxgk

“Cjp,hcx hpjjhoenphzxtug,hTuscuhGnlxyujrgu,hqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhoxhtugubj
uyyhoenp,”hpunqhYjrngkh“UgqhkkkhNht pohxzghN’thrjsc,hrjschbyuqhcx 
futjkhCx husjhp fehm snochoeuokkkk”hEjhoxxlhejsheugqhugqhqnqhgxohlnpp
noh(oxhlnpphejsheugqhnghp fehfyxpjgjpphoxhqjuoehpjjtjqhoxhent
ntmsxmjs);hejhtjsjychpw jjdjqhnohznoehuhmjgnojgohuns,hyxxlngbhuohejs
isnbeojgngbhjcjpk

“Nohzx yqheurjhijjghtnpjsuiyjhaxshcx hoxhijhuyxgj,”hpejhpunq,hugq
ynaongbhejsheugqphzenfehenqhejshfejjlphay pengbhznoehmyjup sj,hoznpojq
ejshfxnyhxaheunshxghoejhgumjhxahejshgjflhugqhmnggjqhnohoejsjkh“Gx,”hpej
zjgohxg,h“pejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzkkkkhY flnyc,hNhyjusgjqhuhyxohuohPxqjgk”

“P sjychoejsjhusjhgxohmjxmyjhoejsjhpxhnyy?”

“Zxspjk”

“Zeuo’phpxhuza yhoxhtjhnphoeuohNhfug’ohpjjhenthuphejhzuphzejghejhzup
cx gbkhCx hzx yqhgxohijynjrjhexzhfeustngbhejhzuphuphuhcx oe,hi ohNhqnq
gxoh gqjspougqhenthoejgk”

“Nhfughw noj,hw nojhijynjrjhnokhExzhNhajjyhoeuohzjhtnbeoheurjhijjg
asnjgqp!”hpejhpunq;hugq,hqnposjppjqhuohzeuohpejheuqhpunq,hpejhyxxljq
sx gqhuohejshe piugq,hugqhojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjpk

“Cjp,h_tnbeoheurjhijjg_,”hejhpunqhtx sga yyckh“Ej’ph. pohxgjhxahoexpj
mjxmyjhxahzexthoejchpuchoejc’sjhgxohaxshoenphzxsyqk”

“I ohzjheurjhtugchqucphijaxsjh p;hzjht pohbxhoxhijq,”hpunqhLnooc,
byugfngbhuohejshongchzuofek


Feumojsh20

Oejhgjvohquchoejhpnflhtughsjfjnrjqhoejhpufsutjgohugqhjvosjtjh gfonxgk
Q sngbhoejhfjsjtxgchGnlxyuchYjrnghmsucjqhajsrjgoyckhEnphbsjuohjcjp,
aupojgjqhxghoejhexychntubjhoeuohzuphpjohx ohxghuhfusq-ouiyjhfxrjsjq
znoehuhfxyxsjqhgumlng,hjvmsjppjqhp fehmuppnxguojhmsucjshugqhexmjhoeuo
nohzuphuza yhoxhYjrnghoxhpjjhnokhYjrnghlgjzhoeuohoenphmuppnxguojhmsucjs
ugqhexmjhzx yqhxgychtuljhenthajjyhtxsjhinoojsychmusongbhasxthoejhynaj
ejhpxhyxrjqkhYjrnghlgjzhenphisxoejshugqhoejhzxslngbphxahenphngojyyjfo:
ejhlgjzhoeuohenph gijynjahfutjhgxohasxthynajhijngbhjupnjshaxshent
znoex ohaunoe,hi oheuqhbsxzgh mhijfu pjhpojmhichpojmhoejhfxgojtmxsusc
pfnjgonanfhngojsmsjouonxghxahguo suyhmejgxtjguhfs pejqhx ohoej
mxppninynochxahaunoe;hugqhpxhejhlgjzhoeuohenphmsjpjgohsjo sghzuphgxohu
yjbnontuojhxgj,hisx beohuix ohichzuchxahoejhputjhzxslngbhxahenp
ngojyyjfo,hi ohpntmychuhojtmxsusc,hngojsjpojqhsjo sghoxhaunoehnghu
qjpmjsuojhexmjhxahsjfxrjsckhYjrnghlgjzhoxxhoeuohLnoocheuqhposjgboejgjq
enphexmjhichuffx gophxahoejhtusrjyx phsjfxrjsnjphpejheuqhejusqhxak
Yjrnghlgjzhuyyhoenp;hugqhnohzuphubxgndngbychmunga yhoxhenthoxhijexyq
oejhp mmynfuongb,hexmja yhjcjphugqhoejhjtufnuojqhzsnpo,hynaojqhznoe
qnaanf yoc,htulngbhoejhpnbghxahoejhfsxpphxghoejhojgpjhisxz,hugqhoej
msxtngjgohpex yqjsphugqhexyyxz,hbupmngbhfejpo,hzenfehxgjhfx yqhgxohajjy
fxgpnpojgohznoehoejhynajhoejhpnflhtughzuphmsucngbhaxskhQ sngbhoej
pufsutjgohYjrnghqnqhzeuohej,hugh gijynjrjs,heuqhqxgjhuhoex pugqhontjpk
Ejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhBxq,h“NahOex hqxpohjvnpo,htuljhoenphtughoxhsjfxrjs”
(xahfx spjhoenphputjhoengbheuphijjghsjmjuojqhtugchontjp),h“ugqhOex 
znyohpurjhenthugqhtjk”

Uaojshjvosjtjh gfonxghoejhpnflhtughijfutjhp qqjgycht fehijoojskhEjhqnq
gxohfx behxgfjhnghoejhfx spjhxahughex s,hptnyjq,hlnppjqhLnooc’pheugq,
oeuglngbhejshznoehojusp,hugqhpunqhejhzuphfxtaxsouiyj,hasjjhasxthmung,
ugqhoeuohejhajyohposxgbhugqheuqhughummjonojkhEjhjrjghsunpjqhentpjya
zejghenphpx mhzuphisx beo,hugqhupljqhaxshuhf oyjohuphzjyykhExmjyjppyc
nyyhuphejhzup,hxirnx phuphnohzuphuohoejhanspohbyugfjhoeuohejhfx yqhgxo
sjfxrjs,hYjrnghugqhLnoochzjsjhaxshoeuohex shixoehnghoejhputjhpouojhxa
jvfnojtjgo,heummc,hoex behajusa yhxahijngbhtnpouljgk

“Nphejhijoojs?”

“Cjp,ht fek”

“No’phzxgqjsa yk”

“Oejsj’phgxoengbhzxgqjsa yhnghnok”

“Ugczuc,hej’phijoojs,”hoejchpunqhnghuhzenpmjs,hptnyngbhoxhxgjhugxoejsk

Oenphpjya-qjfjmonxghzuphgxohxahyxgbhq suonxgkhOejhpnflhtughajyyhngoxhu
w njohpyjjm,hi ohejhzuphzuljqh mheuyahughex shyuojshichenphfx bekhUgq
uyyhuohxgfjhjrjschexmjhrugnpejqhnghoexpjhuix ohenthugqhnghentpjyakhOej
sjuynochxahenphp aajsngbhfs pejqhuyyhexmjphnghYjrnghugqhLnoochugqhng
oejhpnflhtughentpjya,hyjurngbhgxhqx io,hgxhtjtxschjrjghxahmupohexmjpk

Znoex ohsjajssngbhoxhzeuohejheuqhijynjrjqhngheuyahughex shijaxsj,hup
oex behupeutjqhjrjghoxhsjfuyyhno,hejhupljqhaxshnxqngjhoxhngeuyjhnghu
ixooyjhfxrjsjqhznoehmjsaxsuojqhmumjskhYjrnghburjhenthoejhixooyj,hugq
oejhputjhyxxlhxahmuppnxguojhexmjhznoehzenfehejheuqhouljghoejhpufsutjgo
zuphgxzhaupojgjqhxghenphisxoejs,hqjtugqngbhasxthenthoejhfxganstuonxghxa
oejhqxfoxs’phzxsqphoeuohngeuyngbhnxqngjhzxsljqhzxgqjspk

“NphLuocuhgxohejsj?”hejhbupmjq,hyxxlngbhsx gqhzenyjhYjrnghsjy fougoyc
uppjgojqhoxhoejhqxfoxs’phzxsqpkh“Gx;hpxhNhfughpuchnokkkkhNohzuphaxshejs
puljhNhzjgohoesx behoeuohausfjkhPej’phpxhpzjjo;hi ohcx hugqhNhfug’o
qjfjnrjhx spjyrjpkhOenphnphzeuohNhijynjrjhng,”hejhpunq,hugq,hpw jjdngb
oejhixooyjhnghenphixgcheugq,hejhijbughisjuoengbhxrjshnok

Uohjnbeohx’fyxflhnghoejhjrjgngbhYjrnghugqhenphznajhzjsjhqsnglngbhojuhng
oejnshsxxthzejghTuscuhGnlxyujrguhsughnghoxhoejthisjuoeyjppyckhPejhzup
muyj,hugqhejshynmphzjsjhw nrjsngbkh“Ejhnphqcngb!”hpejhzenpmjsjqkh“N’t
uasunqhznyyhqnjhoenphtng ojk”

IxoehxahoejthsughoxhentkhEjhzuphpnoongbhsunpjqh mhznoehxgjhjyixzhxghoej
ijq,henphyxgbhiuflhijgo,hugqhenphejuqheugbngbhyxzk

“Exzhqxhcx hajjy?”hYjrnghupljqhnghuhzenpmjs,huaojshuhpnyjgfjk

“NhajjyhN’thpjoongbhxaa,”hGnlxyuchpunqhznoehqnaanf yoc,hi ohznoe
jvosjtjhqnpongfogjpp,hpfsjzngbhoejhzxsqphx ohxahentpjyakhEjhqnqhgxo
sunpjhenphejuq,hi ohpntmycho sgjqhenphjcjph mzusqp,hznoex ohoejns
sjufengbhenphisxoejs’phaufjkh“Luocu,hbxhuzuc!”hejhuqqjqk

Yjrngh. tmjqh m,hugqhznoehuhmjsjtmoxschzenpmjshtuqjhejshbxhx ok

“N’thpjoongbhxaa,”hejhpunqhubungk

“Zechqxhcx hoenglhpx?”hpunqhYjrng,hpxhuphoxhpuchpxtjoengbk

“Ijfu pjhN’thpjoongbhxaa,”hejhsjmjuojq,huphoex behejheuqhuhynlngbhaxs
oejhmesupjkh“No’phoejhjgqk”

TuscuhGnlxyujrguhzjgoh mhoxhentk

“Cx heuqhijoojshynjhqxzg;hcx ’qhijhjupnjs,”hpejhpunqk

“Nhpeuyyhynjhqxzghpxxghjgx be,”hejhmsxgx gfjqhpyxzyc,h“zejghN’thqjuq,”
ejhpunqhpusfuponfuyyc,hzsuoea yyckh“Zjyy,hcx hfughyuchtjhqxzghnahcx 
ynljk”

Yjrnghyunqhenphisxoejshxghenphiufl,hpuohqxzghijpnqjhent,hugqhbudjqhuo
enphaufj,hexyqngbhenphisjuoekhOejhqcngbhtughyuchznoehfyxpjqhjcjp,hi o
oejht pfyjphoznofejqhasxthontjhoxhontjhxghenphaxsjejuq,huphznoehxgj
oenglngbhqjjmychugqhngojgpjyckhYjrnghngrxy gousnychoex beohznoehenthxa
zeuohnohzuphoeuohzupheummjgngbhoxhenthgxz,hi ohnghpmnojhxahuyyhenp
tjgouyhjaaxsophoxhbxhuyxgbhznoehenthejhpuzhichoejhjvmsjppnxghxahoeuo
fuyt,hpojsghaufjhoeuohaxshoejhqcngbhtughuyyhzuphbsxzngbhfyjusjshugq
fyjusjshoeuohzuphponyyhuphquslhuphjrjshaxshYjrngk

“Cjp,hcjp,hpx,”hoejhqcngbhtughusonf yuojqhpyxzychuohngojsruypkh“Zunohu
ynooyjk”hEjhzuphpnyjgokh“Snbeo!”hejhmsxgx gfjqhuyyhuohxgfj
sjupp sngbyc,huphoex behuyyhzjsjhpxyrjqhaxshentkh“XhYxsq!”hejht st sjq,
ugqhpnbejqhqjjmyck

TuscuhGnlxyujrguhajyohenphajjokh“Oejc’sjhbjoongbhfxyq,”hpejhzenpmjsjqk

Axshuhyxgbhzenyj,huhrjschyxgbhzenyjhnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrng,hoejhpnflhtug
yuchtxonxgyjppkhI ohejhzuphponyyhuynrj,hugqhasxthontjhoxhontjhej
pnbejqkhYjrnghichgxzhzuphjveu pojqhasxthtjgouyhposungkhEjhajyohoeuo,
znoehgxhtjgouyhjaaxso,hfx yqhejh gqjspougqhzeuohnohzuphoeuohzup
_snbeo_khEjhfx yqhgxohjrjghoenglhxahoejhmsxiyjthxahqjuoehnopjya,hi o
znoehgxhznyyhxahenphxzghoex beophljmohfxtngbhoxhenthxahzeuohejheuqhox
qxhgjvo;hfyxpngbhoejhqjuqhtug’phjcjp,hqsjppngbhent,hxsqjsngbhoej
fxaangkhUgq,hposugbjhoxhpuc,hejhajyoh oojsychfxyq,hugqhzuphgxo
fxgpfnx phxahpxssxzhgxshxahyxpp,hyjpphponyyhxahmnochaxshenphisxoejskhNa
ejheuqhugchajjyngbhaxshenphisxoejshuohoeuohtxtjgo,hnohzuphjgrchaxshoej
lgxzyjqbjhoejhqcngbhtugheuqhgxzhoeuohejhfx yqhgxoheurjk

Uhyxgbhontjhtxsjhejhpuohxrjshenthpx,hfxgong uyychjvmjfongbhoejhjgqkhI o
oejhjgqhqnqhgxohfxtjkhOejhqxxshxmjgjqhugqhLnoochummjusjqkhYjrnghbxoh m
oxhpoxmhejskhI ohuohoejhtxtjgohejhzuphbjoongbh m,hejhfu beohoejhpx gq
xahoejhqcngbhtughponssngbk

“Qxg’ohbxhuzuc,”hpunqhGnlxyuchugqhejyqhx ohenpheugqkhYjrnghburjhent
enp,hugqhugbsnychzurjqhoxhenphznajhoxhbxhuzuck

Znoehoejhqcngbhtug’pheugqhnghenpheugq,hejhpuohaxsheuyahughex s,hug
ex s,hugxoejshex skhEjhqnqhgxohoenglhxahqjuoehuohuyyhgxzkhEjhzxgqjsjq
zeuohLnoochzuphqxngb;hzexhynrjqhnghoejhgjvohsxxt;hzejoejshoejhqxfoxs
ynrjqhnghuhex pjhxahenphxzgkhEjhyxgbjqhaxshaxxqhugqhaxshpyjjmkhEj
fu onx pychqsjzhuzuchenpheugqhugqhajyohoejhajjokhOejhajjohzjsjhfxyq,
i ohoejhpnflhtughzuphponyyhisjuoengbkhYjrnghosnjqhubunghoxhtxrjhuzuchxg
onmoxj,hi ohoejhpnflhtughponssjqhubunghugqhpunq:h“Qxg’ohbxk”

Oejhquzghfutj;hoejhpnflhtug’phfxgqnonxghzuph gfeugbjqkhYjrnghpojuyoenyc
znoeqsjzhenpheugq,hugqhznoex ohyxxlngbhuohoejhqcngbhtug,hzjgohxaahox
enphxzghsxxthugqhzjgohoxhpyjjmkhZejghejhzxljh m,hngpojuqhxahgjzphxahenp
isxoejs’phqjuoehzenfehejhjvmjfojq,hejhyjusgjqhoeuohoejhpnflhtugheuq
sjo sgjqhoxhenphjusynjshfxgqnonxgkhEjheuqhijb ghpnoongbh mhubung,
fx bengb,heuqhijb ghjuongbhubung,houylngbhubung,hugqhubungheuqhfjupjq
oxhouylhxahqjuoe,hubungheuqhijb ghoxhjvmsjpphexmjhxahenphsjfxrjsc,hugq
euqhijfxtjhtxsjhnssnouiyjhugqhtxsjhbyxxtchoeughjrjskhGxhxgj,hgjnoejs
enphisxoejshgxshLnooc,hfx yqhpxxoejhentkhEjhzuphugbschznoehjrjscxgj,
ugqhpunqhgupochoengbphoxhjrjscxgj,hsjmsxufejqhjrjscxgjhaxshenp
p aajsngbp,hugqhngpnpojqhoeuohoejchpex yqhbjohenthuhfjyjisuojqhqxfoxs
asxthTxpfxzkhOxhuyyhngw nsnjphtuqjhenthuphoxhexzhejhajyo,hejhtuqjhoej
putjhugpzjshznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahrngqnfonrjhsjmsxufea ygjpp,h“N’t
p aajsngbhexssniyc,hngoxyjsuiyc!”

Oejhpnflhtughzuphp aajsngbhtxsjhugqhtxsj,hjpmjfnuyychasxthijqpxsjp,
zenfehnohzuphntmxppniyjhgxzhoxhsjtjqc,hugqhbsjzhtxsjhugqhtxsjhugbsc
znoehjrjscxgjhuix ohent,hiyutngbhoejthaxshjrjscoengb,hugqhjpmjfnuyyc
axshgxoheurngbhisx beohenthuhqxfoxshasxthTxpfxzkhLnoochosnjqhnghjrjsc
mxppniyjhzuchoxhsjynjrjhent,hoxhpxxoejhent;hi ohnohzuphuyyhnghrung,hugq
Yjrnghpuzhoeuohpejhejspjyahzuphjveu pojqhixoehmecpnfuyychugqhtxsuyyc,
oex behpejhzx yqhgxohuqtnohnokhOejhpjgpjhxahqjuoe,hzenfeheuqhijjg
jrxljqhnghuyyhichenphoulngbhyjurjhxahynajhxghoejhgnbeohzejghejheuqhpjgo
axshenphisxoejs,hzuphisxljgh mkhJrjscxgjhlgjzhoeuohejht pohngjrnouiyc
qnjhpxxg,hoeuohejhzupheuyahqjuqhuysjuqckhJrjscxgjhznpejqhaxshgxoengb
i ohoeuohejhpex yqhqnjhuphpxxghuphmxppniyj,hugqhjrjscxgj,hfxgfjuyngb
oenp,hburjhenthtjqnfngjp,hosnjqhoxhangqhsjtjqnjphugqhqxfoxsp,hugq
qjfjnrjqhenthugqhoejtpjyrjphugqhjufehxoejskhUyyhoenphzuphauypjexxq,
qnpb pongb,hnssjrjsjgohqjfjnokhUgqhxzngbhoxhoejhijgohxahenphfeusufojs,
ugqhijfu pjhejhyxrjqhoejhqcngbhtughtxsjhoeughugcxgjhjypjhqnq,hYjrnghzup
txpohmunga yychfxgpfnx phxahoenphqjfjnok

Yjrng,hzexheuqhyxgbhijjghmxppjppjqhichoejhnqjuhxahsjfxgfnyngbhenp
isxoejsp,huohyjupohnghaufjhxahqjuoe,heuqhzsnoojghoxhenphisxoejs,hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hugqheurngbhsjfjnrjqhughugpzjshasxthent,hejhsjuqhoenphyjoojs
oxhoejhpnflhtugkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzsxojhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohfxtj
entpjya,hugqhnghox fengbhojstphejhijbbjqhenphisxoejs’phaxsbnrjgjppk

Oejhpnflhtughpunqhgxoengbk

“ZeuohuthNhoxhzsnojhoxhent?”hpunqhYjrngkh“Nhexmjhcx husjhgxohugbschznoe
ent?”

“Gx,hgxohoejhyjupo!”hGnlxyuchugpzjsjq,hrjvjqhuohoejhw jponxgkh“Ojyyhent
oxhpjgqhtjhuhqxfoxsk”

Oesjjhtxsjhqucphxahubxgchaxyyxzjq;hoejhpnflhtughzuphponyyhnghoejhputj
fxgqnonxgkhOejhpjgpjhxahyxgbngbhaxshenphqjuoehzuphajyohichjrjscxgjhgxz
uohoejhtjsjhpnbeohxahent,hichoejhzunojsphugqhoejhexojy-ljjmjshugqhuyy
oejhmjxmyjhpoucngbhnghoejhexojy,hugqhoejhqxfoxshugqhTuscuhGnlxyujrgu
ugqhYjrnghugqhLnoockhOejhpnflhtughuyxgjhqnqhgxohjvmsjpphoenphajjyngb,
i ohxghoejhfxgosuschzupha snx phuohoejnshgxohbjoongbhenthqxfoxsp,hugq
zjgohxghoulngbhtjqnfngjhugqhouylngbhxahynajkhXgychuohsusjhtxtjgop,hzejg
oejhxmn thburjhenthughngpougo’phsjynjahasxthoejhgjrjs-fjupngbhmung,hej
zx yqhpxtjontjp,heuyahupyjjm,h oojshzeuohzuphjrjshtxsjhngojgpjhnghenp
ejusohoeughnghuyyhoejhxoejsp:h“Xe,hnahnohzjsjhxgychoejhjgq!”hxs:h“Zejg
znyyhnohijhxrjs?”

Enphp aajsngbp,hpojuqnychbsxzngbhtxsjhngojgpj,hqnqhoejnshzxslhugq
msjmusjqhenthaxshqjuoekhOejsjhzuphgxhmxpnonxghnghzenfehejhzuphgxohng
mung,hoejsjhzuphgxohuhtng ojhnghzenfehejhzuph gfxgpfnx phxahno,hgxohu
ynti,hgxohuhmusohxahenphixqchoeuohqnqhgxohufejhugqhfu pjhenthubxgck
Jrjghoejhtjtxsnjp,hoejhntmsjppnxgp,hoejhoex beophxahoenphixqchuzuljgjq
nghenthgxzhoejhputjhurjspnxghuphoejhixqchnopjyakhOejhpnbeohxahxoejs
mjxmyj,hoejnshsjtuslp,henphxzghsjtngnpfjgfjp,hjrjscoengbhzuphaxshenthu
px sfjhxahubxgckhOexpjhuix ohenthajyohoenp,hugqhngpongfonrjychqnqhgxo
uyyxzhoejtpjyrjphoxhtxrjhasjjyc,hoxhouyl,hoxhjvmsjpphoejnshznpejp
ijaxsjhentkhUyyhenphynajhzuphtjsbjqhnghoejhxgjhajjyngbhxahp aajsngbhugq
qjpnsjhoxhijhsnqhxahnok

Oejsjhzuphjrnqjgoychfxtngbhxrjshenthoeuohsjr ypnxghoeuohzx yqhtuljhent
yxxlh mxghqjuoehuphoejhbxuyhxahenphqjpnsjp,hupheummngjppkhEnoejsoxhjufe
ngqnrnq uyhqjpnsj,husx pjqhichp aajsngbhxshmsnruonxg,hp fehuphe gbjs,
auonb j,hoenspo,heuqhijjghpuonpanjqhichpxtjhixqnycha gfonxghbnrngb
myjup sjkhI ohgxzhgxhmecpnfuyhfsurngbhxshp aajsngbhsjfjnrjqhsjynja,hugq
oejhjaaxsohoxhsjynjrjhoejthxgychfu pjqhasjpehp aajsngbkhUgqhpxhuyy
qjpnsjphzjsjhtjsbjqhnghxgj—oejhqjpnsjhoxhijhsnqhxahuyyhenphp aajsngbp
ugqhoejnshpx sfj,hoejhixqckhI ohejheuqhgxhzxsqphoxhjvmsjpphoenphqjpnsj
xahqjynrjsugfj,hugqhpxhejhqnqhgxohpmjulhxahno,hugqhasxtheuinohupljqhaxs
oejhpuonpaufonxghxahqjpnsjphzenfehfx yqhgxohgxzhijhpuonpanjqkh“O sghtj
xrjshxghoejhxoejshpnqj,”hejhzx yqhpuc,hugqhnttjqnuojychuaojshejhzx yq
uplhoxhijho sgjqhiuflhubunghuphijaxsjkh“BnrjhtjhpxtjhisxoekhOuljhuzuc
oejhisxoekhOuylhxahpxtjoengb:hzechusjhcx hpnyjgo?”hUgqhqnsjfoychoejc
ijbughoxhouylhejhzx yqhfyxpjhenphjcjp,hugqhzx yqhpexzhzjusngjpp,
ngqnaajsjgfj,hugqhyxuoengbk

Xghoejhojgoehquchasxthoejnshussnruyhuohoejhoxzg,hLnoochzuph gzjyykhPej
p aajsjqhasxthejuqufejhugqhpnflgjpp,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohbjoh mhuyyhoej
txsgngbk

Oejhqxfoxshxmngjqhoeuohoejhngqnpmxpnonxghusxpjhasxthauonb jhugq
jvfnojtjgo,hugqhmsjpfsnijqhsjpok

Uaojshqnggjs,hexzjrjs,hLnoochbxoh mhugqhzjgohuph p uyhznoehejshzxslhox
oejhpnflhtugkhEjhyxxljqhuohejshpojsgychzejghpejhfutjhng,hugqhptnyjq
fxgojtmo x pychzejghpejhpunqhpejheuqhijjgh gzjyykhOeuohquchejhzup
fxgong uyychiyxzngbhenphgxpj,hugqhbsxugngbhmnojx pyck

“Exzhqxhcx hajjy?”hpejhupljqhentk

“Zxspj,”hejhusonf yuojqhznoehqnaanf yockh“Nghmung!”

“Nghmung,hzejsj?”

“Jrjsczejsjk”

“Nohznyyhijhxrjshoxquc,hcx hznyyhpjj,”hpunqhTuscuhGnlxyujrgukhOex behno
zuphpunqhnghuhzenpmjs,hoejhpnflhtug,hzexpjhejusngbhYjrngheuqhgxonfjq
zuphrjschljjg,ht poheurjhejusqkhYjrnghpunqhe pehoxhejs,hugqhyxxljq
sx gqhuohoejhpnflhtugkhGnlxyucheuqhejusq;hi ohoejpjhzxsqphmsxq fjqhgx
jaajfohxghentkhEnphjcjpheuqhponyyhoejhputjhngojgpj,hsjmsxufea yhyxxlk

“Zechqxhcx hoenglhpx?”hYjrnghupljqhejs,hzejghpejheuqhaxyyxzjqhenthngox
oejhfxssnqxsk

“Ejheuphijb ghmnflngbhuohentpjya,”hpunqhTuscuhGnlxyujrguk

“Exzhqxhcx htjug?”

“Ynljhoenp,”hpejhpunq,ho bbngbhuohoejhaxyqphxahejshzxxyjghplnsokhYjrng
gxonfjq,hngqjjq,hoeuohuyyhoeuohquchoejhmuonjgohm yyjqhuohentpjya,huphno
zjsj,hoscngbhoxhpguofehpxtjoengbhuzuck

TuscuhGnlxyujrgu’phmsjqnfonxghfutjhos jkhOxzusqphgnbeohoejhpnflhtughzup
gxohuiyjhoxhynaohenpheugqp,hugqhfx yqhxgychbudjhijaxsjhenthznoehoej
putjhngojgpjychfxgfjgosuojqhjvmsjppnxghnghenphjcjpkhJrjghzejghenp
isxoejshxshLnoochijgohxrjshent,hpxhoeuohejhfx yqhpjjhoejt,hejhyxxljq
. pohoejhputjkhLnoochpjgohaxshoejhmsnjpohoxhsjuqhoejhmsucjshaxshoej
qcngbk

Zenyjhoejhmsnjpohzuphsjuqngbhno,hoejhqcngbhtughqnqhgxohpexzhugchpnbghxa
ynaj;henphjcjphzjsjhfyxpjqkhYjrng,hLnooc,hugqhTuscuhGnlxyujrguhpoxxqhuo
oejhijqpnqjkhOejhmsnjpoheuqhgxohw nojhangnpejqhsjuqngbhoejhmsucjshzejg
oejhqcngbhtughposjofejq,hpnbejq,hugqhxmjgjqhenphjcjpkhOejhmsnjpo,hxg
angnpengbhoejhmsucjs,hm ohoejhfsxpphoxhoejhfxyqhaxsjejuq,hoejghpyxzyc
sjo sgjqhnohoxhoejhpougq,hugqhuaojshpougqngbhaxshozxhtng ojphtxsjhng
pnyjgfj,hejhox fejqhoejhe bj,hiyxxqyjppheugqhoeuohzupho sgngbhfxyqk

“Ejhnphbxgj,”hpunqhoejhmsnjpo,hugqhzx yqheurjhtxrjqhuzuc;hi ohp qqjgyc
oejsjhzuphuhaungohponshnghoejht poufejphxahoejhqjuqhtughoeuohpjjtjq
by jqhoxbjoejs,hugqhw nojhqnpongfoychnghoejhe pehoejchejusqhasxthoej
ixooxthxahoejhfejpohoejhpeusmychqjangjqhpx gqp:

“Gxohw nojhkkkhpxxgk”

Ugqhuhtng ojhyuojshoejhaufjhisnbeojgjq,huhptnyjhfutjhx oh gqjshoej
t poufejp,hugqhoejhzxtjghzexheuqhbuoejsjqhsx gqhijbughfusja yychyucngb
x ohoejhfxsmpjk

Oejhpnbeohxahenphisxoejs,hugqhoejhgjusgjpphxahqjuoe,hsjrnrjqhnghYjrng
oeuohpjgpjhxahexssxshnghaufjhxahoejhngpxy iyjhjgnbtu,hoxbjoejshznoehoej
gjusgjpphugqhngjrnouinynochxahqjuoe,hoeuoheuqhfxtjh mxghenthoeuohu o tg
jrjgngbhzejghenphisxoejsheuqhfxtjhoxhentkhOenphajjyngbhzuphgxzhjrjg
posxgbjshoeughijaxsj;hjrjghyjpphoeughijaxsjhqnqhejhajjyhfumuiyjhxa
ummsjejgqngbhoejhtjugngbhxahqjuoe,hugqhnophngjrnouinynochsxpjh mhijaxsj
enthtxsjhojssniyjhoeughjrjskhI ohgxz,hoeuglphoxhenphznaj’phmsjpjgfj,
oeuohajjyngbhqnqhgxohsjq fjhenthoxhqjpmunskhNghpmnojhxahqjuoe,hejhajyo
oejhgjjqhxahynajhugqhyxrjkhEjhajyohoeuohyxrjhpurjqhenthasxthqjpmuns,
ugqhoeuohoenphyxrj,h gqjshoejhtjgufjhxahqjpmuns,heuqhijfxtjhponyy
posxgbjshugqhm sjskhOejhxgjhtcpojschxahqjuoe,hponyyh gpxyrjq,heuq
pfusfjychmuppjqhijaxsjhenphjcjp,hzejghugxoejshtcpojscheuqhusnpjg,hup
ngpxy iyj,h sbngbhenthoxhyxrjhugqhoxhynajk

Oejhqxfoxshfxganstjqhenphp mmxpnonxgphnghsjbusqhoxhLnoockhEjs
ngqnpmxpnonxghzuphuhpctmoxthoeuohpejhzuphznoehfenyqk


Feumojsh21

AsxthoejhtxtjgohzejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeh gqjspoxxqhasxthenp
ngojsrnjzphznoehIjopchugqhznoehPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoeuohuyyhoeuohzup
jvmjfojqhxahenthzuphoxhyjurjhenphznajhnghmjufj,hznoex ohi sqjgngbhejs
znoehenphmsjpjgfj,hugqhoeuohenphznajhejspjyahqjpnsjqhoenp,hejhajyohpx
qnposu beohoeuohejhfx yqhfxtjhoxhgxhqjfnpnxghxahentpjya;hejhqnqhgxo
lgxzhentpjyahzeuohejhzugojqhgxz,hugqhm oongbhentpjyahnghoejheugqphxa
oexpjhzexhzjsjhpxhmyjupjqhoxhngojsjpohoejtpjyrjphnghenphuaaunsp,hejhtjo
jrjscoengbhznoeh gw uynanjqhuppjgokhNohzuphxgychzejghUgguheuqhyjaohenp
ex pj,hugqhoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpphpjgohoxhuplhenthzejoejshpejhpex yq
qngjhznoehenthxshpjmusuojyc,hoeuohaxshoejhanspohontjhejhfyjusyc
fxtmsjejgqjqhenphmxpnonxg,hugqhzuphummuyyjqhichnokhTxpohqnaanf yohxa
uyyhnghoenphmxpnonxghzuphoejhaufohoeuohejhfx yqhgxohnghugchzuchfxggjfo
ugqhsjfxgfnyjhenphmupohznoehzeuohzuphgxzkhNohzuphgxohoejhmupohzejghej
euqhynrjqheummnychznoehenphznajhoeuohosx iyjqhentkhOejhosugpnonxghasxt
oeuohmupohoxhuhlgxzyjqbjhxahenphznaj’ph gaunoea ygjpphejheuqhynrjq
oesx behtnpjsuiychuysjuqc;hoeuohpouojhzuphmunga y,hi ohejhfx yq
 gqjspougqhnokhNahenphznajheuqhoejg,hxghqjfyusngbhoxhenthejs
 gaunoea ygjpp,hyjaohent,hejhzx yqheurjhijjghzx gqjq,h geummc,hi ohej
zx yqhgxoheurjhijjghnghoejhexmjyjpphmxpnonxg—ngfxtmsjejgpniyjhox
entpjya—nghzenfehejhajyohentpjyahgxzkhEjhfx yqhgxohgxzhsjfxgfnyjhenp
nttjqnuojhmupo,henphojgqjsgjpp,henphyxrjhaxshenphpnflhznaj,hugqhaxshoej
xoejshtug’phfenyqhznoehzeuohzuphgxzhoejhfupj,hoeuohnphznoehoejhaufo
oeuo,huphnohzjsj,hnghsjo sghaxshuyyhoenphejhgxzhax gqhentpjyahuyxgj,
m ohoxhpeutj,huhyu bengb-poxfl,hgjjqjqhichgxhxgj,hugqhqjpmnpjqhic
jrjscxgjk

Axshoejhanspohozxhqucphuaojshenphznaj’phqjmuso sjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
sjfjnrjqhummynfugophaxshuppnpougfjhugqhenphfenjahpjfsjousc,hqsxrjhox
oejhfxttnoojj,hugqhzjgohqxzghoxhqnggjshnghoejhqngngb-sxxthuph p uyk
Znoex ohbnrngbhentpjyahuhsjupxghaxshzeuohejhzuphqxngb,hejhposungjq
jrjschgjsrjhxahenphijngbhaxshoexpjhozxhqucp,hpntmychoxhmsjpjsrjhug
ummjusugfjhxahfxtmxp sj,hugqhjrjghxahngqnaajsjgfjkhUgpzjsngbhngw nsnjp
uix ohoejhqnpmxpnonxghxahUgguhUsluqcjrgu’phsxxtphugqhijyxgbngbp,hejheuq
jvjsfnpjqhnttjgpjhpjya-fxgosxyhoxhummjushynljhuhtughnghzexpjhjcjphzeuo
euqhxff ssjqhzuphgxoh gaxsjpjjghgxshx ohxahoejhxsqnguschfx spjhxa
jrjgop,hugqhejhuooungjqhenphunt:hgxhxgjhfx yqheurjhqjojfojqhnghent
pnbgphxahqjpmunskhI ohxghoejhpjfxgqhquchuaojshejshqjmuso sj,hzejg
Lxsgjchburjhenthuhinyyhasxthuhaupenxguiyjhqsumjs’phpexm,hzenfehUgguheuq
axsbxoojghoxhmuc,hugqhuggx gfjqhoeuohoejhfyjslhasxthoejhpexmhzup
zunongb,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxyqhenthoxhpexzhoejhfyjslh mk

“Jvf pjhtj,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,haxshrjgo sngbhoxhosx iyjhcx khI ohnahcx 
qnsjfoh phoxhummychoxhejshjvfjyyjgfc,hzx yqhcx hbsufnx pychxiynbjh p
znoehejshuqqsjpp?”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmxgqjsjq,huphnohpjjtjqhoxhoejhfyjsl,hugqhuyyhuo
xgfj,ho sgngbhsx gq,hejhpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyjkhYjoongbhenphejuqhpngl
ngoxhenpheugqp,hejhpuohaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhnghoeuohmxpnonxg,hpjrjsuyhontjp
uoojtmojqhoxhpmjulhugqhpoxmmjqhpexsokhLxsgjc,hmjsfjnrngbhenphtupojs’p
jtxonxg,hupljqhoejhfyjslhoxhfuyyhugxoejshontjkhYjaohuyxgj,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehsjfxbgndjqhoeuohejheuqhgxohoejhposjgboehoxhljjmh mhoej
yngjhxahanstgjpphugqhfxtmxp sjhugchyxgbjskhEjhburjhxsqjsphaxshoej
fussnubjhoeuohzuphuzunongbhenthoxhijhouljghiufl,hugqhaxshgxhxgjhoxhij
uqtnoojq,hugqhejhqnqhgxohbxhqxzghoxhqnggjsk

Ejhajyohoeuohejhfx yqhgxohjgq sjhoejhzjnbeohxah gnrjspuyhfxgojtmohugq
jvupmjsuonxg,hzenfehejheuqhqnpongfoychpjjghnghoejhaufjhxahoejhfyjslhugq
xahLxsgjc,hugqhxahjrjscxgj,hznoex ohjvfjmonxg,hzexthejheuqhtjohq sngb
oexpjhozxhqucpkhEjhajyohoeuohejhfx yqhgxoho sghupnqjhasxthentpjyahoej
euosjqhxahtjg,hijfu pjhoeuoheuosjqhqnqhgxohfxtjhasxthenphijngbhiuqh(ng
oeuohfupjhejhfx yqheurjhosnjqhoxhijhijoojs),hi ohasxthenphijngb
peutja yychugqhsjm ypnrjych geummckhEjhlgjzhoeuohaxshoenp,haxshoejhrjsc
aufohoeuohenphejusohzuphoxsghznoehbsnja,hoejchzx yqhijhtjsfnyjpphox
entkhEjhajyohoeuohtjghzx yqhfs pehenthuphqxbphposugbyjhuhoxsghqxb
cjymngbhznoehmungkhEjhlgjzhoeuohenphpxyjhtjugphxahpjf snochubungpo
mjxmyjhzuphoxhenqjhenphzx gqphasxthoejt,hugqhngpongfonrjychejhosnjqhox
qxhoenphaxshozxhqucp,hi ohgxzhejhajyohngfumuiyjhxahljjmngbh mhoej
 gjw uyhpos bbyjk

Enphqjpmunshzuphjrjghngojgpnanjqhichoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphoeuohejhzup
 oojsychuyxgjhnghenphpxssxzkhNghuyyhMjojspi sbhoejsjhzuphgxohuhe tug
ijngbhoxhzexthejhfx yqhjvmsjpphzeuohejhzuphajjyngb,hzexhzx yqhajjyhaxs
ent,hgxohuphuhenbehxaanfnuy,hgxohuphuhtjtijshxahpxfnjoc,hi ohpntmychup
uhp aajsngbhtug;hngqjjqhejheuqhgxohp fehuhxgjhnghoejhzexyjhzxsyqk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbsjzh mhughxsmeugkhOejsjhzjsjhozxhisxoejspkhOejc
qnqhgxohsjtjtijshoejnshauoejs,hugqhoejnshtxoejshqnjqhzejghUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehzuphojghcjusphxyqkhOejhmsxmjsochzuphuhptuyyhxgjkhOejns
 gfyj,hLusjgng,huhbxrjsgtjgohxaanfnuyhxahenbehpougqngb,huohxgjhontjhu
aurxsnojhxahoejhyuojhOpus,heuqhisx beohoejth mk

Xghfxtmyjongbhenphenbehpfexxyhugqh gnrjspnochfx spjphznoehtjquyp,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuq,hznoehenph gfyj’phunq,hnttjqnuojychpousojqhng
uhmsxtngjgohmxpnonxghnghoejhpjsrnfj,hugqhasxthoeuohontjhaxszusqhejheuq
qjrxojqhentpjyahjvfy pnrjychoxhmxynonfuyhutinonxgkhNghoejhenbehpfexxy
ugqhoejh gnrjspnoc,hugqhuaojszusqphnghoejhpjsrnfj,hUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhgjrjshaxstjqhuhfyxpjhasnjgqpenmhznoehugcxgjkhEnp
isxoejsheuqhijjghoejhmjspxghgjusjpohoxhenphejuso,hi ohejheuqhuhmxpohng
oejhTngnposchxahAxsjnbghUaaunsp,hugqhzuphuyzucphuisxuq,hzejsjhejheuq
qnjqhpexsoychuaojshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phtussnubjk

Zenyjhejhzuphbxrjsgxshxahuhmsxrngfj,hUggu’phu go,huhzjuyoechmsxrngfnuy
yuqc,heuqhoesxzghent—tnqqyj-ubjqhuphejhzup,hoex behcx gbhaxshu
bxrjsgxs—znoehejshgnjfj,hugqheuqhp ffjjqjqhnghm oongbhenthnghp fehu
mxpnonxghoeuohejheuqhjnoejshoxhqjfyusjhentpjyahxshoxhyjurjhoejhoxzgk
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphgxohyxgbhnghejpnouonxgkhOejsjhzjsjhuohoej
ontjhuphtugchsjupxgphaxshoejhpojmhuphubungpohno,hugqhoejsjhzuphgx
xrjsiuyugfngbhfxgpnqjsuonxghoxhx ozjnbehenphngrusnuiyjhs yjhxa
uipoungngbhzejghnghqx iokhI ohUggu’phu goheuqhoesx behuhfxttxg
ufw ungougfjhngpng uojqhoeuohejheuqhuysjuqchfxtmsxtnpjqhoejhbnsy,hugq
oeuohejhzuphnghexgxshix gqhoxhtuljhejshughxaajskhEjhtuqjhoejhxaajs,hugq
fxgfjgosuojqhxghenphijosxoejqhugqhenphznajhuyyhoejhajjyngbhxahzenfehej
zuphfumuiyjk

OejhuooufetjgohejhajyohoxhUgguhmsjfy qjqhnghenphejusohjrjschgjjqhxa
ngontuojhsjyuonxgphznoehxoejspkhUgqhgxzhutxgbhuyyhenphufw ungougfjphej
euqhgxohxgjhasnjgqkhEjheuqhmyjgochxahpx-fuyyjqhfxggjfonxgp,hi ohgx
asnjgqpenmpkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhmyjgochxahmjxmyjhzexthejhfx yq
ngrnojhoxhqnggjs,hoxhzexpjhpctmuoechejhfx yqhummjuyhnghugchm iynf
uaaunshejhzuphfxgfjsgjqhuix o,hzexpjhngojsjpohejhfx yqhsjflxgh mxghaxs
ugcxgjhejhznpejqhoxhejym,hznoehzexthejhfx yqhfugqnqychqnpf pphxoejs
mjxmyj’phi pngjpphugqhuaaunsphxahpouojkhI ohenphsjyuonxgphznoehoejpj
mjxmyjhzjsjhfxgangjqhoxhxgjhfyjusychqjangjqhfeuggjy,hugqheuqhuhfjsoung
sx ongjhasxthzenfehnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhqjmusokhOejsjhzuphxgjhtug,hu
fxtsuqjhxahenphuohoejh gnrjspnoc,hznoehzexthejheuqhtuqjhasnjgqphyuojs,
ugqhznoehzexthejhfx yqheurjhpmxljghxahuhmjspxguyhpxssxz;hi ohoenp
asnjgqheuqhuhmxpohnghoejhQjmusotjgohxahJq fuonxghnghuhsjtxojhmusohxa
S ppnukhXahoejhmjxmyjhnghMjojspi sbhoejhtxpohngontuojhugqhtxpohmxppniyj
zjsjhenphfenjahpjfsjouschugqhenphqxfoxsk

TneunyhRuppnynjrnofehPy qng,hoejhfenjahpjfsjousc,hzuphu
posunbeoaxszusq,hngojyynbjgo,hbxxq-ejusojq,hugqhfxgpfnjgonx phtug,hugq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphuzusjhxahenphmjspxguyhbxxqznyykhI ohoejns
anrjhcjusphxahxaanfnuyhzxslhoxbjoejshpjjtjqhoxheurjhm ohuhiussnjs
ijozjjghoejthoeuohf ohxaahzustjshsjyuonxgpk

Uaojshpnbgngbhoejhmumjsphisx beohent,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhpuohaxs
uhyxgbhzenyjhnghpnyjgfj,hbyugfngbhuohTneunyhRuppnynjrnofe,hugqhpjrjsuy
ontjphejhuoojtmojqhoxhpmjul,hi ohfx yqhgxokhEjheuqhuysjuqchmsjmusjqhoej
mesupj:h“Cx heurjhejusqhxahtchosx iyj?”hI ohejhjgqjqhichpucngb,hup
 p uy:h“Pxhcx ’yyhbjohoenphsjuqchaxshtj?”hugqhznoehoeuohqnptnppjqhentk

Oejhxoejshmjspxghzuphoejhqxfoxs,hzexheuqhuypxhuhlngqychajjyngbhaxshent;
i ohoejsjheuqhyxgbhjvnpojqhuhoufno sgh gqjspougqngbhijozjjghoejthoeuo
ixoehzjsjhzjnbejqhqxzghichzxsl,hugqhuyzucphnghuhe ssck

Xahenphzxtjghasnjgqp,haxsjtxpohutxgbpohoejthFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehgjrjshoex beokhUyyhzxtjg,hpntmychuphzxtjg,hzjsj
ojssniyjhugqhqnpoupoja yhoxhentk


Feumojsh22

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhaxsbxoojghoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hi o
pejheuqhgxohaxsbxoojghentkhUohoejhinoojsjpohtxtjgohxahenphyxgjyc
qjpmunshpejhfutjhoxhent,hugqhznoex ohzunongbhoxhijhuggx gfjq,hzuyljq
posunbeohngoxhenphpo qckhPejhax gqhenthuphejhzuphpnoongbhznoehenphejuq
nghixoeheugqpk

“_.’unhaxsféhyuhfxgpnbgj_,”hpejhpunq,hzuylngbhnghznoehsumnqhpojmphugq
isjuoengbheusqhznoehjvfnojtjgohugqhsumnqhjvjsfnpjkh“Nheurjhejusqhuyy!
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!hQjushasnjgq!”hpejhzjgohxg,hzustychpw jjdngbhenp
eugqhnghixoehxahejsphugqhbudngbhznoehejshangjhmjgpnrjhjcjphngoxhenpk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hasxzgngb,hbxoh m,hugqhqnpjgbubngbhenpheugq,
txrjqhejshuhfeunsk

“Zxg’ohcx hpnohqxzg,hfx gojpp?hN’thpjjngbhgxhxgjhijfu pjhN’th gzjyy,
fx gojpp,”hejhpunq,hugqhenphynmphoznofejqk

“Qjushasnjgq!”hsjmjuojqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hgjrjshoulngbhejshjcjp
xaahenp,hugqhp qqjgychejshjcjisxzphsxpjhuohoejhnggjshfxsgjsp,
qjpfsningbhuhosnugbyjhxghejshaxsjejuq,hejsh bychcjyyxzhaufjhijfutj
ponyyh bynjs,hi ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehajyohoeuohpejhzuphpxsschaxshent
ugqhzuphmsjmusngbhoxhfsckhUgqhejhoxxhzuphpxaojgjq;hejhpguofejqhejs
my tmheugqhugqhmsxfjjqjqhoxhlnpphnok

“Qjushasnjgq!”hpejhpunqhnghuhrxnfjhisjulngbhznoehjtxonxgkh“Cx hx beo
gxohoxhbnrjhzuchoxhbsnjakhCx shpxssxzhnphuhbsjuohxgj,hi ohcx hx beohox
angqhfxgpxyuonxgk”

“Nhuthfs pejq,hNhuthuggnenyuojq,hNhuthgxhyxgbjshuhtug!”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hyjoongbhbxhejsheugq,hi ohponyyhbudngbhngoxhejshisnttngb
jcjpkh“Tchmxpnonxghnphpxhuza yhijfu pjhNhfughangqhgxzejsj,hNhfuggxo
angqhznoenghtjhposjgboehoxhp mmxsohtjk”

“Cx hznyyhangqhp mmxso;hpjjlhno—gxohnghtj,hoex behNhijpjjfehcx hox
ijynjrjhnghtchasnjgqpenm,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhpnbekh“X shp mmxsohnphyxrj,
oeuohyxrjhoeuohEjheuphrx fepuajqh pkhEnphi sqjghnphynbeo,”hpejhpunq,
znoehoejhyxxlhxahjfpoupchUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlgjzhpxhzjyykh“Ejhznyy
ijhcx shp mmxsohugqhcx shp ffxsk”

Uyoex behoejsjhzuphnghoejpjhzxsqphuhayurxshxahoeuohpjgontjgouyhjtxonxg
uohejshxzghyxaochajjyngbp,hugqhoeuohgjzhtcponfuyhajsrxshzenfeheuq
yuojychbungjqhbsx gqhnghMjojspi sb,hugqhzenfehpjjtjqhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehqnpmsxmxsonxguoj,hponyyhnohzuphmyjupugohoxhenthoxhejus
oenphgxzk

“NhuthzjulkhNhuthfs pejqkhNhaxsjpuzhgxoengb,hugqhgxzhNh gqjspougq
gxoengbk”

“Qjushasnjgq,”hsjmjuojqhYnqnuhNrugxrguk

“No’phgxohoejhyxpphxahzeuohNheurjhgxohgxz,hno’phgxohoeuo!”hm sp jq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“NhqxhgxohbsnjrjhaxshoeuokhI ohNhfuggxohejym
ajjyngbhe tnynuojqhijaxsjhxoejshmjxmyjhaxshoejhmxpnonxghNhuthmyufjqhngk
Nohnphzsxgb,hi ohNhfug’ohejymhno,hNhfug’ohejymhnok”

“Gxohcx hnohzuphmjsaxstjqhoeuohgxiyjhufohxahaxsbnrjgjpp,huohzenfehNhzup
txrjqhoxhjfpoupc,hugqhjrjscxgjhjypjhoxx,hi ohEj,hzxslngbhznoenghcx s
ejuso,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hsunpngbhejshjcjphsumo sx pyc,
“ugqhpxhcx hfuggxohijhupeutjqhxahcx shufok”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehlgnoojqhenphisxzp,hugqhfsxxlngbhenpheugqp,hej
fsufljqhenphangbjspk

“Xgjht pohlgxzhuyyhoejhaufop,”hejhpunqhnghenphoenghrxnfjkh“Uhtug’p
posjgboeheuphnophyntnop,hfx gojpp,hugqhNheurjhsjufejqhtchyntnopkhOej
zexyjhquchNheurjheuqhoxhijhtulngbhussugbjtjgop,hussugbjtjgophuix o
ex pjexyqhtuoojsphusnpngb”h(ejhjtmeupndjqhoejhzxsqh_usnpngb_)h“asxthtc
gjz,hpxynouschmxpnonxgkhOejhpjsrugop,hoejhbxrjsgjpp,hoejhuffx gopkkkk
Oejpjhmngmsnflpheurjhpouiijqhtjhoxhoejhejuso,hugqhNheurjhgxohoej
posjgboehoxhijushnokhUohqnggjshkkkhcjpojsquc,hNhzuphuytxpohbjoongbh m
asxthoejhqnggjs-ouiyjkhNhfx yqhgxohijushoejhzuchtchpxghyxxljqhuohtjkhEj
qnqhgxohuplhtjhoejhtjugngbhxahnohuyy,hi ohejhzugojqhoxhupl,hugqhNhfx yq
gxohijushoejhyxxlhnghenphjcjpkhEjhzuphuasunqhoxhyxxlhuohtj,hi ohoeuohnp
gxohuyykkkk”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzx yqheurjhsjajssjqhoxhoejhinyyhoeuo
euqhijjghisx beohent,hi ohenphrxnfjhpexxl,hugqhejhpoxmmjqkhOeuohinyyhxg
iy jhmumjs,haxshuheuohugqhsniixgp,hejhfx yqhgxohsjfuyyhznoex ohuhs pe
xahpjya-mnock

“Nh gqjspougq,hqjushasnjgq,”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgukh“Nh gqjspougqhnohuyyk
P ffxshugqhfxtaxsohcx hznyyhangqhgxohnghtj,hoex behNheurjhfxtjhxgychox
unqhcx hnahNhfugkhNahNhfx yqhouljhasxthxaahcx huyyhoejpjhmjooc,
e tnynuongbhfusjphkkkhNh gqjspougqhoeuohuhzxtug’phzxsq,huhzxtug’p
p mjsngojgqjgfjhnphgjjqjqkhCx hznyyhngos pohnohoxhtj?”

Pnyjgoychugqhbsuoja yychUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmsjppjqhejsheugqk

“OxbjoejshzjhznyyhouljhfusjhxahPjscxdeukhMsufonfuyhuaaunsphusjhgxohtc
posxgbhmxngokhI ohNhznyyhpjohoxhzxslkhNhznyyhijhcx shex pjljjmjskhQxg’o
oeuglhtjkhNhqxhnohgxohasxthtcpjyakkkk”

“Nhfuggxohejymhoeuglngbhcx k”

“I o,hqjushasnjgq,hqxhgxohbnrjhzuchoxhoejhajjyngbhxahzenfehcx 
pmxlj—ijngbhupeutjqhxahzeuohnphoejhFesnponug’phenbejpohbyxsc:h_ejhzex
e tiyjphentpjyahpeuyyhijhjvuyojq_khUgqhcx hfuggxohoeuglhtjkhCx ht po
oeuglhEnt,hugqhmsuchoxhEnthaxshp ffxskhNghEnthuyxgjhzjhangqhmjufj,
fxgpxyuonxg,hpuyruonxg,hugqhyxrj,”hpejhpunq,hugqho sgngbhejshjcjp
ejurjgzusqp,hpejhijbughmsucngb,huphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehbuoejsjqhasxt
ejshpnyjgfjk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehynpojgjqhoxhejshgxz,hugqhoexpjhjvmsjppnxgphzenfe
euqhpjjtjqhoxhent,hnahgxohqnpoupoja y,huohyjupohjvubbjsuojq,hgxzhpjjtjq
oxhenthguo suyhugqhfxgpxyuoxsckhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhqnpynljqhoenp
gjzhjgoe pnuponfhajsrxskhEjhzuphuhijynjrjs,hzexhzuphngojsjpojqhng
sjynbnxghmsntusnychnghnophmxynonfuyhupmjfo,hugqhoejhgjzhqxfosngjhzenfe
rjgo sjqh mxghpjrjsuyhgjzhngojsmsjouonxgp,h. pohijfu pjhnohmurjqhoej
zuchoxhqnpf ppnxghugqhuguycpnp,hzuphnghmsngfnmyjhqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhentk
Ejheuqhenoejsoxhouljgh mhuhfxyqhugqhjrjghugoubxgnponfhuoono qjhoxhoenp
gjzhqxfosngj,hugqhznoehFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hzexheuqhijjghfussnjq
uzuchichno,hejheuqhgjrjshusb jq,hi ohichpnyjgfjheuqhuppnq x pychmussnjq
ejshuoojtmophoxhmsxrxljhenthngoxhusb tjgokhGxzhaxshoejhanspohontjhej
ejusqhejshzxsqphznoehmyjup sj,hugqhqnqhgxohngzusqychxmmxpjhoejtk

“Nhuthrjsc,hrjschbsuoja yhoxhcx ,hixoehaxshcx shqjjqphugqhaxshcx s
zxsqp,”hejhpunq,hzejghpejheuqhangnpejqhmsucngbk

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhxgfjhtxsjhmsjppjqhixoehejshasnjgq’pheugqpk

“GxzhNhznyyhjgojsh mxghtchq onjp,”hpejhpunqhznoehuhptnyjhuaojshuhmu pj,
uphpejhznmjqhuzuchoejhosufjphxahojuspkh“NhuthbxngbhoxhPjscxdeukhXgychng
oejhyupohjvosjtnochpeuyyhNhummychoxhcx k”hUgqhpejhbxoh mhugqhzjgohx ok

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzjgohngoxhPjscxdeu’phmusohxahoejhex pj,hugq
qsxmmngbhojusphxghoejhpfusjqhfenyq’phfejjlp,hpejhoxyqhenthoeuohenp
auoejshzuphuhpungohugqhenphtxoejshzuphqjuqk

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhljmohejshmsxtnpjkhPejhqnqhufo uyychouljh mxg
ejspjyahoejhfusjhxahoejhxsbugnduonxghugqhtugubjtjgohxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe’phex pjexyqkhI ohpejheuqhgxohxrjspouojqhoejhfupjhzejg
pucngbhoeuohmsufonfuyhuaaunsphzjsjhgxohejshposxgbhmxngokhUyyhejs
ussugbjtjgopheuqhoxhijhtxqnanjqhijfu pjhoejchfx yqhgxohijhfussnjqhx o,
ugqhoejchzjsjhtxqnanjqhichLxsgjc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phruyjo,hzex,
oex behgxhxgjhzuphuzusjhxahoejhaufo,hgxzhtugubjqhLusjgng’phex pjexyq,
ugqhw njoychugqhqnpfsjjoychsjmxsojqhoxhenphtupojshzenyjhejhzuphqsjppngb
uyyhnohzuphgjfjppuschaxshenthoxhlgxzkhI ohYnqnuhNrugxrgu’phejymhzup
gxgjhoejhyjpphsjuy;hpejhburjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehtxsuyhp mmxsohnghoej
fxgpfnx pgjpphxahejshyxrjhugqhsjpmjfohaxshent,hugqhponyyhtxsj,huphno
zuphpxxoengbhoxhejshoxhijynjrj,hnghoeuohpejhuytxpoho sgjqhenthox
Fesnponugnoc—oeuohnp,hasxthughngqnaajsjgohugqhumuoejonfhijynjrjshpej
o sgjqhenthngoxhughusqjgohugqhpojuqaupohuqejsjgohxahoejhgjz
ngojsmsjouonxghxahFesnponughqxfosngj,hzenfeheuqhijjghbungngbhbsx gqhxa
yuojhnghMjojspi sbkhNohzuphjupchaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxhijynjrjhng
oenphojufengbkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hynljhYnqnuhNrugxrguhngqjjq,hugq
xoejsphzexhpeusjqhoejnshrnjzp,hzuphfxtmyjojychqjrxnqhxahrnrnqgjpphxa
ntubnguonxg,hoeuohpmnsno uyhauf yochnghrnso jhxahzenfehoejhfxgfjmonxgp
jrxljqhichoejhntubnguonxghijfxtjhpxhrnrnqhoeuohoejcht pohgjjqphijhng
eustxgchznoehxoejshfxgfjmonxgp,hugqhznoehufo uyhaufokhEjhpuzhgxoengb
ntmxppniyjhugqhngfxgfjnruiyjhnghoejhnqjuhoeuohqjuoe,hoex behjvnpongb
axsh gijynjrjsp,hqnqhgxohjvnpohaxshent,hugqhoeuo,huphejhzuphmxppjppjq
xahoejhtxpohmjsajfohaunoe,hxahoejhtjup sjhxahzenfehejhzuphentpjyahoej
. qbj,hoejsjaxsjhoejsjhzuphgxhpnghnghenphpx y,hugqhejhzuphjvmjsnjgfngb
fxtmyjojhpuyruonxghejsjhxghjusoek

Nohnphos jhoeuohoejhjssxgjx pgjpphugqhpeuyyxzgjpphxahoenphfxgfjmonxghxa
enphaunoehzuphqntychmjsfjmoniyjhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhejhlgjz
oeuohzejg,hznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohnqjuhoeuohenphaxsbnrjgjpphzuphoej
ufonxghxahuhenbejshmxzjs,hejheuqhp ssjgqjsjqhqnsjfoychoxhoejhajjyngbhxa
axsbnrjgjpp,hejheuqhajyohtxsjheummngjpphoeughgxzhzejghejhzuphoenglngb
jrjschngpougohoeuohFesnpohzuphnghenphejuso,hugqhoeuohnghpnbgngb
xaanfnuyhmumjsphejhzuphqxngbhEnphznyykhI ohaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehno
zuphuhgjfjppnochoxhoenglhnghoeuohzuc;hnohzuphp fehuhgjfjppnochaxshent
nghenphe tnynuonxghoxheurjhpxtjhjyjruojqhpougqmxngo,hexzjrjshntubngusc,
asxthzenfe,hyxxljqhqxzgh mxghichuyy,hejhfx yqhyxxlhqxzghxghxoejsp,hoeuo
ejhfy gb,huphoxhenphxgjhpuyruonxg,hoxhenphqjy pnxghxahpuyruonxgk


Feumojsh23

OejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuq,huphuhrjschcx gbhugqhpjgontjgouyhbnsy,
ijjghtussnjqhoxhuhzjuyoechtughxahenbehsugl,hughjvosjtjychbxxq-guo sjq,
.xrnuy,hugqhjvosjtjychqnppnmuojqhsuljkhOzxhtxgoephuaojshtussnubjhejs
e piugqhuiugqxgjqhejs,hugqhejshntmuppnxgjqhmsxojpouonxgphxahuaajfonxg
ejhtjohznoehuhpusfupthugqhjrjghexponynochoeuohmjxmyjhlgxzngbhoej
fx go’phbxxqhejuso,hugqhpjjngbhgxhqjajfophnghoejhpjgontjgouyhYnqnu,
zjsjhuohuhyxpphoxhjvmyungkhOex behoejchzjsjhqnrxsfjqhugqhynrjqhumuso,
cjohzejgjrjshoejhe piugqhtjohoejhznaj,hejhngrusnuiychijeurjqhoxhejs
znoehoejhputjhtuynbgugohnsxgc,hoejhfu pjhxahzenfehzuphngfxtmsjejgpniyjk

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhyxgbhbnrjgh mhijngbhnghyxrjhznoehejs
e piugq,hi ohasxthoeuohontjhpejheuqhgjrjshbnrjgh mhijngbhnghyxrjhznoe
pxtjxgjkhPejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehpjrjsuyhmjxmyjhuohxgfj,hixoehtjghugq
zxtjg;hpejheuqhijjghnghyxrjhznoehuytxpohjrjscxgjhzexheuqhijjg
musonf yusychqnpongb npejqhnghugchzuckhPejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehuyyhoejhgjz
msngfjphugqhmsngfjppjphzexhtussnjqhngoxhoejhntmjsnuyhautnyc;hpejheuq
ijjghnghyxrjhznoehuhenbehqnbgnouschxahoejhFe sfe,huhrnfus,hugqhuhmusnpe
msnjpo;hpejheuqhijjghnghyxrjhznoehuh.x sguynpo,hoesjjhPyurxmenyjp,hznoe
Lxtnppusxr,hznoehuhtngnpojs,huhqxfoxs,hughJgbynpehtnppnxguschugq
LusjgngkhUyyhoejpjhmuppnxgphfxgpougoychzugngbhxshbsxzngbhtxsjhusqjgo,
qnqhgxohmsjrjgohejshasxthljjmngbh mhoejhtxpohjvojgqjqhugqhfxtmynfuojq
sjyuonxgphznoehoejhfx sohugqhaupenxguiyjhpxfnjockhI ohasxthoejhontj
oeuohuaojshLusjgng’phosx iyjhpejhoxxlhenth gqjshejshpmjfnuyhmsxojfonxg,
asxthoejhontjhoeuohpejhpjohoxhzxslhnghLusjgng’phex pjexyqhyxxlngbhuaojs
enphzjyausj,hpejhajyohoeuohuyyhejshxoejshuooufetjgophzjsjhgxohoejhsjuy
oengb,hugqhoeuohpejhzuphgxzhbjg ngjychnghyxrj,hugqhznoehgxhxgjhi o
LusjgngkhOejhajjyngbhpejhgxzhjvmjsnjgfjqhaxshenthpjjtjqhoxhejshposxgbjs
oeughugchxahejshaxstjshajjyngbpkhUguycdngbhejshajjyngb,hugqhfxtmusngb
nohznoehaxstjshmuppnxgp,hpejhqnpongfoychmjsfjnrjqhoeuohpejhzx yqhgxo
eurjhijjghnghyxrjhznoehLxtnppusxrhnahejheuqhgxohpurjqhoejhynajhxahoej
Opus,hoeuohpejhzx yqhgxoheurjhijjghnghyxrjhznoehSnponofe-L qdenoplchna
oejsjheuqhijjghgxhPyurxgnfhw jponxg,hi ohoeuohpejhyxrjqhLusjgnghaxs
entpjya,haxshenphyxaoc,h gfxtmsjejgqjqhpx y,haxshoejhpzjjo—oxhejs—enbe
gxojphxahenphrxnfj,haxshenphqsuzyngbhngoxguonxg,henphzjuschjcjp,henp
feusufojs,hugqhenphpxaohzenojheugqphznoehoejnshpzxyyjghrjngpkhPejhzup
gxohpntmychxrjs.xcjqhuohtjjongbhent,hi ohpejhpx beohnghenphaufjhpnbgp
xahoejhntmsjppnxghpejhzuphtulngbhxghentkhPejhosnjqhoxhmyjupjhent,hgxo
ichejshzxsqphxgyc,hi ohnghejshzexyjhmjspxgkhAxshenphpuljhnohzuphoeuo
pejhgxzhyurnpejqhtxsjhfusjhxghejshqsjpphoeughijaxsjkhPejhfu beohejspjya
nghsjrjsnjphxghzeuohtnbeoheurjhijjg,hnahpejheuqhgxohijjghtussnjqhugqhej
euqhijjghasjjkhPejhiy pejqhznoehjtxonxghzejghejhfutjhngoxhoejhsxxt,hpej
fx yqhgxohsjmsjpphuhptnyjhxahsumo sjhzejghejhpunqhugcoengbhutnuiyjhox
ejsk

AxshpjrjsuyhqucphgxzhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhijjghnghuhpouojhxa
ngojgpjhjvfnojtjgokhPejheuqhyjusgjqhoeuohUgguhugqhRsxgplchzjsjhng
Mjojspi sbkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeht pohijhpurjqhasxthpjjngbhejs,hej
t pohijhpurjqhjrjghasxthoejhoxso sngbhlgxzyjqbjhoeuohoeuohuza yhzxtug
zuphnghoejhputjhoxzghznoehent,hugqhoeuohejhtnbeohtjjohejshugchtng ojk

YnqnuhNrugxrguhtuqjhngw nsnjphoesx behejshasnjgqphuphoxhzeuohoexpj
_ngautx phmjxmyj_,huphpejhfuyyjqhUgguhugqhRsxgplc,hngojgqjqhqxngb,hugq
pejhjgqjurxsjqhpxhoxhb nqjhjrjschtxrjtjgohxahejshasnjgqhq sngbhoexpj
qucphoeuohejhfx yqhgxohfxtjhufsxpphoejtkhOejhcx gbhuq. ougo,hug
ufw ungougfjhxahRsxgplc,hoesx behzexthpejhxioungjqhejshngaxstuonxg,hugq
zexhexmjqhoesx behFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhoxhxiounghuhfxgfjppnxg,hoxyq
ejshoeuohoejcheuqhangnpejqhoejnshi pngjpphugqhzjsjhbxngbhuzuchgjvohquck
YnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhuysjuqchijb ghoxhfuythqxzg,hzejghoejhgjvohtxsgngbhu
gxojhzuphisx beohejs,hoejheugqzsnongbhxahzenfehpejhsjfxbgndjqhznoe
exssxskhNohzuphoejheugqzsnongbhxahUgguhLusjgngukhOejhjgrjyxmjhzuphxa
mumjshuphoenflhuphiusl;hxghoejhxiyxgbhcjyyxzhmumjshoejsjhzuphuhe bj
txgxbsut,hugqhoejhyjoojshptjyohxahubsjjuiyjhpfjgok

“Zexhisx beohno?”

“Uhfxttnppnxgunsjhasxthoejhexojyk”

NohzuphpxtjhontjhijaxsjhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhfx yqhpnohqxzghoxhsjuq
oejhyjoojskhEjshjvfnojtjgohisx beohxghughuoouflhxahupoetu,hoxhzenfehpej
zuphp i.jfokhZejghpejheuqhsjfxrjsjqhejshfxtmxp sj,hpejhsjuqhoej
axyyxzngbhyjoojshnghAsjgfe:





“TuqutjhyuhFxtojppj,

“OejhFesnponughajjyngbphznoehzenfehcx shejusohnphanyyjqhbnrjhtjhoej,hN
ajjy,h gmusqxguiyjhixyqgjpphoxhzsnojhoxhcx khNhuthtnpjsuiyjhuohijngb
pjmusuojqhasxthtchpxgkhNhjgosjuohmjstnppnxghoxhpjjhenthxgfjhijaxsjhtc
qjmuso sjkhAxsbnrjhtjhaxshsjfuyyngbhtcpjyahoxhcx shtjtxsckhNhummychox
cx hugqhgxohoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpntmychijfu pjhNhqxhgxohznpehox
fu pjhoeuohbjgjsx phtughoxhp aajshnghsjtjtijsngbhtjkhLgxzngbhcx s
asnjgqpenmhaxshent,hNhlgxzhcx hznyyh gqjspougqhtjkhFx yqhcx hpjgq
Pjscxdeuhoxhtj,hxshpex yqhNhfxtjhoxhoejhex pjhuohpxtjhanvjqhex s,hxs
znyyhcx hyjohtjhlgxzhzejghugqhzejsjhNhfx yqhpjjhenthuzuchasxthextj?hN
qxhgxohugonfnmuojhuhsja puy,hlgxzngbhoejhtubgugntnochxahenthznoehzext
nohsjpopkhCx hfuggxohfxgfjnrjhoejhfsurngbhNheurjhoxhpjjhent,hugqhpx
fuggxohfxgfjnrjhoejhbsuono qjhcx shejymhznyyhusx pjhnghtjk

“Uggu”



JrjscoengbhnghoenphyjoojshjvupmjsuojqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu:hnop
fxgojgophugqhoejhuyy pnxghoxhtubgugntnoc,hugqhjpmjfnuyychnophasjjhugq
jupc—uphpejhfxgpnqjsjq—oxgjk

“Puchoeuohoejsjhnphgxhugpzjs,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hugq
nttjqnuojychxmjgngbhejshiyxoongb-ixxl,hpejhzsxojhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehoeuohpejhexmjqhoxhpjjhenthuohxgjhx’fyxflhuohoejhyjrjjk

“Nht pohouylhznoehcx hxahuhbsurjhugqhmunga yhp i.jfokhOejsjhzjhznyy
ussugbjhzejsjhoxhtjjokhIjpohxahuyyhuohtchex pj,hzejsjhNhznyyhxsqjshoju
_uphcx hynljhno_kh sbjgokhEjhyucphoejhfsxpp,hi ohEjhbnrjphoejhposjgboe
oxhijushno,”hpejhuqqjq,hpxhuphoxhbnrjhenthpxtjhpynbeohmsjmusuonxgk
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguh p uyychzsxojhpxtjhozxhxshoesjjhyjoojsphuhquc
oxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhPejhjg.xcjqhoeuohaxsthxahfxtt gnfuonxg,hzenfe
burjhxmmxso gnochaxshuhsjangjtjgohugqhunshxahtcpojschgxohuaaxsqjqhic
oejnshmjspxguyhngojsrnjzpk


Feumojsh24

OejhyjrjjhzuphqsuzngbhoxhuhfyxpjkhMjxmyjhtjohuphoejchzjsjhbxngbhuzuc,
ugqhbxppnmjqhxahoejhyuojpohgjzp,hxahoejhgjzychijpoxzjqhexgxsphugqhoej
feugbjphnghoejhmxpnonxgphxahoejhenbejsha gfonxgusnjpk

“NahxgychFx gojpphTuscuhIxsnppxrguhzjsjhTngnpojshxahZus,hugqhMsngfjpp
RuolxrplucuhzjsjhFxttugqjs-ng-Fenja,”hpunqhuhbsuc-ejuqjq,hynooyjhxyq
tughnghuhbxyq-jtisxnqjsjqh gnaxst,huqqsjppngbhuhouyy,heugqpxtjhtunqhxa
exgxshzexheuqhw jponxgjqhenthuix ohoejhgjzhummxngotjgopk

“Ugqhtjhutxgbhoejhuq. ougop,”hpunqhoejhtunqhxahexgxs,hptnyngbk

“Cx heurjhughummxngotjgohuysjuqckhCx ’sjhxrjshoejhjffyjpnuponfuy
qjmusotjgokhUgqhcx shuppnpougo’phLusjgngk”

“Bxxq-quc,hmsngfj!”hpunqhoejhynooyjhxyqhtughoxhuhtughzexhfutjh mhox
entk

“Zeuohzjsjhcx hpucngbhxahLusjgng?”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk

“EjhugqhM ocuoxrheurjhsjfjnrjqhoejhUyjvugqjshGjrplck”

“Nhoex beohejheuqhnohuysjuqck”

“Gxkh. pohyxxlhuohent,”hpunqhoejhynooyjhxyqhtug,hmxngongbhznoehenp
jtisxnqjsjqheuohoxhLusjgnghnghuhfx soh gnaxsthznoehoejhgjzhsjqhsniixg
ufsxpphenphpex yqjsp,hpougqngbhnghoejhqxxszuchxahoejheuyyhznoehug
ngay jgonuyhtjtijshxahoejhNtmjsnuyhFx gfnykh“Myjupjqhugqheummchuphu
isupphausoengb,”hejhuqqjq,hpoxmmngbhoxhpeuljheugqphznoehuheugqpxtj
bjgoyjtughxahoejhijqfeutijshxahfxyxppuyhmsxmxsonxgpk

“Gx;hej’phyxxlngbhxyqjs,”hpunqhoejhbjgoyjtughxahoejhijqfeutijsk

“AsxthxrjszxslkhEj’phuyzucphqsuzngbh mhmsx.jfophgxzuqucpkhEjhzxg’ohyjo
uhmxxshqjrnyhbxhgxzuqucphonyyhej’phjvmyungjqhnohuyyhoxhenth gqjs
ejuqpk”

“Yxxlngbhxyqjs,hqnqhcx hpuc?h_Nyhaunohqjphmuppnxgp_khNhijynjrjhFx gojpp
YnqnuhNrugxrgu’ph.juyx phgxzhxahenphznajk”

“Xe,hfxtjhgxz,hmyjupjhqxg’ohpuchugcheusthxahFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk”

“Zec,hnphoejsjhugcheusthnghejshijngbhnghyxrjhznoehLusjgng?”

“I ohnphnohos jhTuqutjhLusjgngu’phejsj?”

“Zjyy,hgxohejsjhnghoejhmuyufj,hi ohnghMjojspi sbkhNhtjohejshcjpojsquc
znoehUyjvjchRsxgplc,h_isuphqjppx p,hisuphqjppx p_,hnghoejhTxsplck”

“_F’jpoh ghexttjhw nhg’uhmup_,kkk”hoejhbjgoyjtughxahoejhijqfeutijshzup
ijbnggngb,hi ohejhpoxmmjqhoxhtuljhsxxt,hixzngb,haxshuhtjtijshxahoej
Ntmjsnuyhautnychoxhmuppk

Oe phmjxmyjhouyljqhngfjppugoychxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hangqngbhau yo
znoehenthugqhyu bengbhuohent,hzenyjhej,hiyxflngbh mhoejhzuchxahoej
tjtijshxahoejhNtmjsnuyhFx gfnyhejheuqhfumo sjq,hzuphjvmyungngbhoxhent
mxngohichmxngohenphgjzhangugfnuyhmsx.jfo,hgjrjshngojss mongbhenp
qnpfx spjhaxshughngpougohaxshajushejhpex yqhjpfumjk

UytxpohuohoejhputjhontjhoeuohenphznajhyjaohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoejsj
euqhfxtjhoxhenthoeuohinoojsjpohtxtjgohnghoejhynajhxahughxaanfnuy—oej
txtjgohzejghenph mzusqhfusjjshfxtjphoxhuha yyhpoxmkhOenpha yyhpoxmheuq
ussnrjqhugqhjrjscxgjhmjsfjnrjqhno,hi ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehentpjya
zuphgxohcjohuzusjhoeuohenphfusjjshzuphxrjskhZejoejshnohzuphq jhoxhenp
aj qhznoehPosjtxr,hxshenphtnpaxso gjhznoehenphznaj,hxshpntmychoeuo
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhsjufejqhenphqjpongjqhyntnop,hnoheuqhijfxtj
jrnqjgohoxhjrjscxgjhnghoejhfx spjhxahoeuohcjushoeuohenphfusjjshzuphuo
ughjgqkhEjhponyyhanyyjqhuhmxpnonxghxahfxgpjw jgfj,hejhpuohxghtugc
fxttnppnxgphugqhfxttnoojjp,hi ohejhzuphuhtughzexpjhquchzuphxrjs,hugq
asxthzexthgxoengbhzuphjvmjfojqkhZeuojrjshejhpunq,hzeuojrjshejhmsxmxpjq,
zuphejusqhuphoex behnohzjsjhpxtjoengbhyxgbhautnynus,hugqhoejhrjschoengb
oeuohzuphgxohgjjqjqkhI ohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphgxohuzusjhxahoenp,
ugq,hxghoejhfxgosusc,hijngbhf ohxaahasxthqnsjfohmusonfnmuonxghng
bxrjsgtjgouyhufonrnoc,hejhpuzhtxsjhfyjusychoeughjrjshoejhjssxsphugq
qjajfophnghoejhufonxghxahxoejsp,hugqhoex beohnohenphq ochoxhmxngohx o
tjugphaxshoejnshfxssjfonxgkhPexsoychuaojshenphpjmusuonxghasxthenphznaj,
ejhijbughzsnongbhenphanspohgxojhxghoejhgjzh. qnfnuyhmsxfjq sj,hoej
anspohxahoejhjgqyjpphpjsnjphxahgxojphejhzuphqjpongjqhoxhzsnojhnghoej
a o sjk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqnqhgxohtjsjychaunyhoxhxipjsrjhenphexmjyjpp
mxpnonxghnghoejhxaanfnuyhzxsyq,hejhzuphgxohtjsjychasjjhasxthugvnjochxg
oenphejuq,hejhzuphmxpnonrjychtxsjhpuonpanjqhoeughjrjshznoehenphxzg
ufonrnock

“Ejhoeuohnph gtussnjqhfusjoehaxshoejhoengbphoeuohijyxgbhoxhoejhYxsq,
exzhejhtuchmyjupjhoejhYxsq:hI ohejhoeuohnphtussnjqhfusjoehaxshoej
oengbphoeuohusjhxahoejhzxsyq,hexzhejhtuchmyjupjhenphznaj,”hpucphoej
UmxpoyjhMu y,hugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hzexhzuphgxzhb nqjqhnghjrjsc
ufonxghichPfsnmo sj,hxaojghsjfuyyjqhoenphojvokhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuo
jrjshpngfjhejheuqhijjghyjaohznoex ohuhznaj,hejheuqhnghoejpjhrjsc
msx.jfophxahsjaxsthijjghpjsrngbhoejhYxsqhtxsjhdjuyx pychoeughijaxsjk

Oejh gtnpouluiyjhntmuonjgfjhxahoejhtjtijshxahoejhFx gfnyhoscngbhoxhbjo
uzuchasxthenthqnqhgxohosx iyjhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe;hejhburjh mhenp
jvmxpnonxghxgychzejghoejhtjtijshxahoejhFx gfny,hpjndngbhenphfeugfjhzejg
xgjhxahoejhNtmjsnuyhautnychzuphmuppngb,hpynmmjqhuzuchasxthentk

Yjaohuyxgj,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehyxxljqhqxzg,hfxyyjfongbhenphoex beop,
oejghyxxljqhfup uyychuix ohenthugqhzuyljqhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,hzejsjhej
exmjqhoxhtjjohFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk

“Ugqhexzhposxgbhoejchuyyhusj,hexzhpx gqhmecpnfuyyc,”hoex beohUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hyxxlngbhuohoejhmxzjsa yychi nyohbjgoyjtughxahoej
ijqfeutijshznoehenphzjyy-fxtijq,hmjsa tjqhzenpljsp,hugqhuohoejhsjqhgjfl
xahoejhmsngfj,hmngfejqhichenphonbeoh gnaxstkhEjheuqhoxhmupphoejthxghenp
zuckh“Os ychnphnohpunqhoeuohuyyhoejhzxsyqhnphjrny,”hejhoex beo,hznoe
ugxoejshpnqjyxgbhbyugfjhuohoejhfuyrjphxahoejhbjgoyjtughxahoej
ijqfeutijsk

Txrngbhaxszusqhqjynijsuojyc,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehixzjqhznoehenp
f poxtuschunshxahzjusngjpphugqhqnbgnochoxhoejhbjgoyjtughzexheuqhijjg
ouylngbhuix ohent,hugqhyxxlngbhoxzusqphoejhqxxs,henphjcjphpx beo
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk

“Ue!hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!”hpunqhoejhynooyjhxyqhtug,hznoehuhtuynfnx p
ynbeohnghenphjcjp,huohoejhtxtjgohzejghLusjgnghzuphxghuhyjrjyhznoehoejt,
ugqhzuphgxqqngbhznoehuhasnbnqhbjpo sj,h“Nheurjg’ohfxgbsuo yuojqhcx 
cjo,”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,hmxngongbhoxhenphgjzychsjfjnrjqhsniixgk

“Oeuglhcx ,”hugpzjsjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Zeuohugh_jvw npnoj_hquc
oxquc,”hejhuqqjq,hyucngbhjtmeupnphnghenphmjf ynushzuchxghoejhzxsq
_jvw npnoj_k

Oeuohoejchyu bejqhuohenthejhzuphzjyyhuzusj,hi ohejhqnqhgxohjvmjfo
ugcoengbhi ohexponynochasxthoejt;hejhzuph pjqhoxhoeuohichgxzk

Fuofengbhpnbeohxahoejhcjyyxzhpex yqjsphxahYnqnuhNrugxrguh. oongbhx o
uixrjhejshfxspjo,hugqhejshangjhmjgpnrjhjcjphinqqngbhenthoxhejs,hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehptnyjq,hsjrjuyngbh gousgnpejqhzenojhojjoe,hugqhzjgo
oxzusqphejsk

YnqnuhNrugxrgu’phqsjppheuqhfxpohejshbsjuohmungp,huphngqjjqhuyyhejs
qsjppjpheuqhqxgjhxahyuojkhEjshunthnghqsjpphzuphgxzhw nojhoejhsjrjspjhxa
oeuohpejheuqhm sp jqhoensochcjusphijaxsjkhOejghejshqjpnsjheuqhijjghox
uqxsghejspjyahznoehpxtjoengb,hugqhoejhtxsjhuqxsgjqhoejhijoojskhGxz,hxg
oejhfxgosusc,hpejhzuphmjsaxsfjhqjfljqhx ohnghuhzuchpxhngfxgpnpojgohznoe
ejshubjhugqhejshanb sj,hoeuohejshxgjhugvnjochzuphoxhfxgosnrjhoeuohoej
fxgosupohijozjjghoejpjhuqxsgtjgophugqhejshxzghjvojsnxshpex yqhgxohij
oxxhummuyyngbkhUgqhuphaushuphUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuphfxgfjsgjqhpej
p ffjjqjq,hugqhzuphnghenphjcjphuoosufonrjkhAxshenthpejhzuphoejhxgj
npyugqhgxohxgychxahbxxqznyyhoxhent,hi ohxahyxrjhnghoejhtnqpohxahoejhpju
xahexponynochugqh.jjsngbhoeuohp ssx gqjqhentk

Muppngbhoesx behsxzphxahnsxgnfuyhjcjp,hejhzuphqsuzghuphguo suyychoxhejs
yxrngbhbyugfjhuphuhmyugohoxhoejhp gk

“Nhfxgbsuo yuojhcx ,”hpejhpunqhoxhent,hejshjcjphxghenphsniixgk

P mmsjppngbhuhptnyjhxahmyjup sj,hejhpes bbjqhenphpex yqjsp,hfyxpngbhenp
jcjp,huphoex behoxhpuchoeuohoeuohfx yqhgxohijhuhpx sfjhxah.xchoxhentk
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzuphrjschzjyyhuzusjhoeuohnohzuphxgjhxahenp
fenjahpx sfjphxahpuonpaufonxg,hoex behejhgjrjshuqtnoojqhnok

“Exzhnphx shugbjy?”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,htjugngbhPjscxdeuk

“Nhfug’ohpuchNhzuphw nojhmyjupjqhznoehent,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
sunpngbhenphjcjisxzphugqhxmjgngbhenphjcjpkh“UgqhPnognlxrhnphgxo
puonpanjqhznoehentk”h(Pnognlxrhzuphoejho oxshoxhzexthPjscxdeu’phpjf yus
jq fuonxgheuqhijjghngos pojqk)h“UphNheurjhtjgonxgjqhoxhcx ,hoejsj’phu
pxsohxahfxyqgjpphnghenthoxzusqphoejhtxpohntmxsougohw jponxgphzenfe
x beohoxhox fehoejhejusohxahjrjschtughugqhjrjschfenyqkkkk”hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehijbughjvmx gqngbhenphrnjzphxghoejhpxyjhw jponxghoeuo
ngojsjpojqhenthijpnqjphoejhpjsrnfj—oejhjq fuonxghxahenphpxgk

ZejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehznoehYnqnuhNrugxrgu’phejymheuqhijjghisx beo
iuflhugjzhoxhynajhugqhufonrnoc,hejhajyohnohenphq ochoxh gqjsouljhoej
jq fuonxghxahoejhpxghyjaohxghenpheugqpkhEurngbhgjrjshijaxsjhouljghugc
ngojsjpohnghjq fuonxguyhw jponxgp,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehqjrxojqhpxtj
ontjhoxhoejhoejxsjonfuyhpo qchxahoejhp i.jfokhUaojshsjuqngbhpjrjsuy
ixxlphxghugoesxmxyxbc,hjq fuonxg,hugqhqnqufonfp,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
qsjzh mhuhmyughxahjq fuonxg,hugqhjgbubngbhoejhijpoho oxshnghMjojspi sb
oxhp mjsngojgqhno,hejhpjohoxhzxsl,hugqhoejhp i.jfohfxgong uyychuipxsijq
entk

“Cjp,hi ohoejhejusokhNhpjjhnghenthenphauoejs’phejuso,hugqhznoehp fehu
ejusohuhfenyqhfuggxohbxhaushzsxgb,”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrguhznoe
jgoe pnuptk

“Cjp,hmjseumpkkkkhUphaxshtj,hNhqxhtchq ockhNo’phuyyhNhfughqxk”

“Cx ’sjhfxtngbhoxhtj,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,huaojshuhmu pj;h“zj
eurjhoxhpmjulhxahuhp i.jfohmunga yhaxshcx khNhzx yqhbnrjhugcoengbhox
eurjhpmusjqhcx hfjsounghtjtxsnjp,hi ohxoejsphusjhgxohxahoejhputjhtngqk
Nheurjhsjfjnrjqhuhyjoojshasxth_ejs_kh_Pej_hnphejsjhnghMjojspi sbk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpe qqjsjqhuohoejhuyy pnxghoxhenphznaj,hi o
nttjqnuojychenphaufjhupp tjqhoejhqjuoeynljhsnbnqnochzenfehjvmsjppjq
 oojshejymyjppgjpphnghoejhtuoojsk

“Nhzuphjvmjfongbhno,”hejhpunqk

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhyxxljqhuohenthjfpouonfuyyc,hugqhojusphxa
sumo sjhuohoejhbsjuogjpphxahenphpx yhfutjhngoxhejshjcjpk


Feumojsh25

ZejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfutjhngoxhoejhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu’phpg b
ynooyjhix qxns,hqjfxsuojqhznoehxyqhfenguhugqhe gbhznoehmxsosunop,hoej
yuqchejspjyaheuqhgxohcjohtuqjhejshummjusugfjk

Pejhzuphfeugbngbhejshqsjppk

Uhfyxoehzuphyunqhxghuhsx gqhouiyj,hugqhxghnohpoxxqhuhfenguhojuhpjsrnfj
ugqhuhpnyrjshpmnsno-yutmhugqhojuhljooyjkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehyxxljq
nqychuix ohuohoejhjgqyjpphautnynushmxsosunophzenfehuqxsgjqhoejhsxxt,
ugqhpnoongbhqxzghoxhoejhouiyj,hejhxmjgjqhuhGjzhOjpoutjgohycngbh mxghnok
Oejhs poyjhxahoejhfx gojpp’phpnylhplnsohqsjzhenphuoojgonxghxaak

“Zjyyhgxz,hzjhfughpnohw njoyc,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hpynmmngb
e ssnjqychznoehughubnouojqhptnyjhijozjjghoejhouiyjhugqhoejhpxau,h“ugq
ouylhxrjshx shojuk”

Uaojshpxtjhzxsqphxahmsjmusuonxg,hFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hisjuoengb
eusqhugqhay pengbhfsntpxg,hburjhngoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’pheugqphoej
yjoojshpejheuqhsjfjnrjqk

Uaojshsjuqngbhoejhyjoojs,hejhpuohuhyxgbhzenyjhnghpnyjgfjk

“Nhqxg’ohoenglhNheurjhoejhsnbeohoxhsja pjhejs,”hejhpunq,hontnqyc
ynaongbhenphjcjpk

“Qjushasnjgq,hcx hgjrjshpjjhjrnyhnghugcxgj!”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc,hNhpjjhoeuohuyyhnphjrnykhI ohzejoejshnohnph. pokkkk”

Enphaufjhpexzjqhnssjpxy onxg,hugqhuhpjjlngbhaxshfx gpjy,hp mmxso,hugq
b nqugfjhnghuhtuoojshejhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqk

“Gx,”hFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhngojss mojqhent;h“oejsjhusjhyntnophox
jrjscoengbkhNhfugh gqjspougqhnttxsuynoc,”hpejhpunq,hgxohw noj
os oea yyc,hpngfjhpejhgjrjshfx yqh gqjspougqhoeuohzenfehyjuqphzxtjghox
nttxsuynoc;h“i ohNhqxg’oh gqjspougqhfs jyoc:hoxhzext?hoxhcx !hExzhfug
pejhpouchnghoejhoxzghzejsjhcx husj?hGx,hoejhyxgbjshxgjhynrjphoejhtxsj
xgjhyjusgpkhUgqhN’thyjusgngbhoxh gqjspougqhcx shyxaongjpphugqhejs
iupjgjppk”

“Zexhnphoxhoesxzhuhpoxgj?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,h gtnpouluiyc
myjupjqhznoehoejhmusohejheuqhoxhmyuckh“Nheurjhaxsbnrjghuyy,hugqhpxhN
fuggxohqjmsnrjhejshxahzeuohnphjvufojqhichyxrjhnghejs—ichejshyxrjhaxs
ejshpxgkkkk”

“I ohnphoeuohyxrj,htchasnjgq?hNphnohpngfjsj?hUqtnoongbhoeuohcx heurj
axsbnrjg—oeuohcx haxsbnrj—eurjhzjhoejhsnbeohoxhzxslhxghoejhajjyngbphxa
oeuohugbjy?hEjhyxxlphxghejshuphqjuqkhEjhmsucphaxshejs,hugqhijpjjfejp
BxqhoxheurjhtjsfchxghejshpngpkhUgqhnohnphijoojshpxkhI ohgxzhzeuohznyy
ejhoengl?”

“Nheuqhgxohoex beohxahoeuo,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hjrnqjgoyc
ubsjjngbk

Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhenqhejshaufjhnghejsheugqphugqhzuphpnyjgokhPej
zuphmsucngbk

“Nahcx huplhtchuqrnfj,”hpejhpunq,heurngbhangnpejqhejshmsucjshugq
 gfxrjsjqhejshaufj,h“Nhqxhgxohuqrnpjhcx hoxhqxhoenpkhQxhcx hp mmxpjhN
qxg’ohpjjhexzhcx husjhp aajsngb,hexzhoenpheuphoxsghxmjghcx shzx gqp?
I ohp mmxpngbhoeuo,huphuyzucp,hcx hqxg’ohoenglhxahcx spjya,hzeuohfughno
yjuqhox?—oxhasjpehp aajsngbhaxshcx ,hoxhoxso sjhaxshoejhfenyqkhNahoejsj
zjsjhuhosufjhxahe tugnochyjaohnghejs,hpejhx beohgxohoxhznpehaxshno
ejspjyakhGx,hNheurjhgxhejpnouonxghnghpucngbhNhuqrnpjhgxo,hugqhnahcx 
znyyhngos pohnohoxhtj,hNhznyyhzsnojhoxhejsk”

UgqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfxgpjgojq,hugqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhpjgo
oejhaxyyxzngbhyjoojshnghAsjgfe:





“QjushTuqutj,

“Oxhijhsjtngqjqhxahcx htnbeoheurjhsjp yophaxshcx shpxghnghyjuqngbhox
w jponxgphxghenphmusohzenfehfx yqhgxohijhugpzjsjqhznoex ohntmyugongbhng
oejhfenyq’phpx yhuhpmnsnohxahfjgp sjhoxzusqphzeuohpex yqhijhaxshent
pufsjq,hugqhoejsjaxsjhNhijbhcx hoxhngojsmsjohcx she piugq’phsja puyhng
oejhpmnsnohxahFesnponughyxrjkhNhmsuchoxhUytnbeochBxqhoxheurjhtjsfchxg
cx k

“Fx gojpphYnqnu”




Oenphyjoojshuooungjqhoejhpjfsjohxi.jfohzenfehFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu
euqhfxgfjuyjqhasxthejspjyakhNohzx gqjqhUgguhoxhoejhw nflk

Axshenphmuso,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hxghsjo sgngbhextjhasxthYnqnu
Nrugxrgu’p,hfx yqhgxohuyyhoeuohquchfxgfjgosuojhentpjyahxghenph p uy
m sp nop,hugqhangqhoeuohpmnsno uyhmjufjhxahxgjhpurjqhugqhijynjrngb
zenfehejheuqhajyohxahyuojk

Oejhoex beohxahenphznaj,hzexheuqhpxhbsjuoychpnggjqhubungpohent,hugq
oxzusqphzexthejheuqhijjghpxhpungoyc,huphFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguheuqhpx
. poychoxyqhent,hx beohgxohoxheurjhosx iyjqhent;hi ohejhzuphgxohjupc;
ejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhoejhixxlhejhzuphsjuqngb;hejhfx yqhgxohqsnrj
uzucheusuppngbhsjfxyyjfonxgphxahenphsjyuonxgphznoehejs,hxahoejhtnpoulj
zenfe,huphnohgxzhpjjtjq,hejheuqhtuqjhnghsjbusqhoxhejskhOejhtjtxschxa
exzhejheuqhsjfjnrjqhejshfxgajppnxghxahnganqjynochxghoejnshzuchextjhasxt
oejhsufjph(jpmjfnuyychoeuohejheuqhngpnpojqhxgychxghoejhxipjsrugfjhxa
jvojsguyhqjfxs t,hugqheuqhgxohpjgohuhfeuyyjgbj)hoxso sjqhenthynljhu
sjtxspjkhEjhzuphoxso sjqhoxxhichoejhoex beohxahoejhyjoojshejheuq
zsnoojghejs;hugqhtxpohxahuyy,henphaxsbnrjgjpp,hzenfehgxixqchzugojq,hugq
enphfusjhxahoejhxoejshtug’phfenyqhtuqjhenphejusohi sghznoehpeutjhugq
sjtxspjk

Ugqh. pohoejhputjhajjyngbhxahpeutjhugqhsjbsjohejhajyohgxz,huphej
sjrnjzjqhuyyhenphmupohznoehejs,hsjfuyyngbhoejhuzlzusqhzxsqphnghzenfe,
uaojshyxgbhzurjsngb,hejheuqhtuqjhejshughxaajsk

“I ohexzheurjhNhijjghoxhiyutj?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakhUgqhoenphw jponxg
uyzucphjvfnojqhugxoejshw jponxghnghent—zejoejshoejchajyohqnaajsjgoyc,
qnqhoejnshyxrngbhugqhtusscngbhqnaajsjgoyc,hoejpjhRsxgplcphugqhXiyxgplcp
kkkhoejpjhbjgoyjtjghxahoejhijqfeutijs,hznoehoejnshangjhfuyrjpkhUgq
oejsjhmuppjqhijaxsjhenphtngqhuhzexyjhpjsnjphxahoejpjhtjooyjpxtj,
rnbxsx p,hpjya-fxganqjgohtjg,hzexhuyzucphugqhjrjsczejsjhqsjzhenp
ngw npnonrjhuoojgonxghnghpmnojhxahentpjyakhEjhosnjqhoxhqnpmjyhoejpj
oex beop,hejhosnjqhoxhmjsp uqjhentpjyahoeuohejhzuphgxohynrngbhaxshoenp
osugpnjgohynaj,hi ohaxshoejhynajhxahjojsgnoc,hugqhoeuohoejsjhzuphmjufj
ugqhyxrjhnghenphejusok

I ohoejhaufohoeuohejheuqhnghoenphosugpnjgo,hosnrnuyhynajhtuqj,huphno
pjjtjqhoxhent,huhajzhosnrnuyhtnpouljphoxso sjqhenthuphoex behoej
jojsguyhpuyruonxghnghzenfehejhijynjrjqheuqhgxhjvnpojgfjkhI ohoenp
ojtmouonxghqnqhgxohyupohyxgb,hugqhpxxghoejsjhzuphsjjpouiynpejqhxgfj
txsjhnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phpx yhoejhmjufjhugqhoejhjyjruonxghic
rnso jhxahzenfehejhfx yqhaxsbjohzeuohejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhsjtjtijsk


Feumojsh26

“Zjyy,hLumnoxgnofe?”hpunqhPjscxdeu,hfxtngbhiuflhsxpchugqhbxxq-e txsjq
asxthenphzuylhoejhquchijaxsjhenphinsoequc,hugqhbnrngbhenphxrjsfxuohox
oejhouyyhxyqheuyy-mxsojs,hzexhptnyjqhqxzghuohoejhynooyjhmjspxghasxthoej
ejnbeohxahenphyxgbhanb sjkh“Zjyy,heuphoejhiugqubjqhfyjslhijjghejsj
oxquc?hQnqhmumuhpjjhent?”

“EjhpuzhentkhOejhtng ojhoejhfenjahpjfsjouschfutjhx o,hNhuggx gfjqhent,”
punqhoejheuyy-mxsojshznoehuhbxxq-e txsjqhznglkh“Ejsj,hN’yyhouljhno
xaak”

“Pjscxdeu!”hpunqhoejho oxs,hpoxmmngbhnghoejhqxxszuchyjuqngbhoxhoej
nggjshsxxtpkh“Ouljhnohxaahcx spjyak”hI ohPjscxdeu,hoex behejhejusqhenp
o oxs’phajjiyjhrxnfj,hqnqhgxohmuchuoojgonxghoxhnokhEjhpoxxqhljjmngb
exyqhxahoejheuyy-mxsojs’phijyo,hugqhbudngbhngoxhenphaufjk

“Zjyy,hugqhqnqhmumuhqxhzeuohejhzugojqhaxshent?”

Oejheuyy-mxsojshgxqqjqhenphejuqhuaanstuonrjyckhOejhfyjslhznoehenphaufj
onjqh m,hzexheuqhuysjuqchijjghpjrjghontjphoxhuplhpxtjhaurxshxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,hngojsjpojqhixoehPjscxdeuhugqhoejheuyy-mxsojskhPjscxdeu
euqhfxtjh mxghenthnghoejheuyy,hugqheuqhejusqhenthmyungonrjychijbhoej
euyy-mxsojshoxhuggx gfjhent,hpucngbhoeuohejhugqhenphfenyqsjgheuqhqjuoe
pousngbhoejthnghoejhaufjk

PngfjhoejghPjscxdeu,heurngbhtjohenthuhpjfxgqhontjhnghoejheuyy,hoxxl
bsjuohngojsjpohnghentk

“Zjyy,hzuphejhrjschbyuq?”hejhupljqk

“Byuq?hNhpex yqhoenglhpx!hUytxpohqugfngbhuphejhzuyljqhuzuck”

“Ugqheuphugcoengbhijjghyjao?”hupljqhPjscxdeu,huaojshuhmu pjk

“Fxtj,hpns,”hpunqhoejheuyy-mxsojs;hoejghznoehuhpeuljhxahenphejuqhej
zenpmjsjq,h“Pxtjoengbhasxthoejhfx gojppk”

Pjscxdeuh gqjspoxxqhuohxgfjhoeuohzeuohoejheuyy-mxsojshzuphpmjulngbhxa
zuphuhmsjpjgohasxthFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhaxshenphinsoequck

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuc?hZejsj?”

“Lxsgjchoxxlhnohoxhcx shmumukhUhangjhmyucoengbhnoht pohijhoxx!”

“Exzhinb?hYnljhoenp?”

“Suoejshptuyy,hi ohuhangjhoengbk”

“Uhixxlk”

“Gx,huhoengbkhS ghuyxgb,hs ghuyxgb,hRuppnychY lnofehnphfuyyngbhcx ,”
punqhoejhmxsojs,hejusngbhoejho oxs’phpojmphummsxufengb,hugqhfusja yyc
oulngbhuzuchasxthenphijyohoejhynooyjheugqhnghoejhbyxrjheuyahm yyjqhxaa,
ejhpnbgjqhznoehenphejuqhoxzusqphoejho oxsk

“RuppnychY lnofe,hnghuhongchtng oj!”hugpzjsjqhPjscxdeuhznoehoeuohbuc
ugqhyxrngbhptnyjhzenfehuyzucphzxghxrjshoejhfxgpfnjgonx phRuppnyc
Y lnofek

Pjscxdeuhzuphoxxheummc,hjrjscoengbhzuphoxxhqjynbeoa yhaxshenthoxhij
uiyjhoxhejymhpeusngbhznoehenphasnjgqhoejhmxsojshoejhautnychbxxqhaxso gj
xahzenfehejheuqhejusqhq sngbhenphzuylhnghoejhm iynfhbusqjgphasxthYnqnu
Nrugxrgu’phgnjfjkhOenphmnjfjhxahbxxqhgjzphpjjtjqhoxhenthmusonf yusyc
ntmxsougohasxthnophfxtngbhuohoejhputjhontjhznoehoejhbyuqgjpphxahoej
iugqubjqhfyjslhugqhenphxzghbyuqgjpphuohoxcpheurngbhfxtjhaxshentkhNo
pjjtjqhoxhPjscxdeuhoeuohoenphzuphuhquchxghzenfehjrjscxgjhx beohoxhij
byuqhugqheummck

“Cx hlgxzhmumu’phsjfjnrjqhoejhUyjvugqjshGjrplchoxquc?”

“Oxhijhp sjhNhqx!hMjxmyjheurjhijjghuysjuqchoxhfxgbsuo yuojhentk”

“Ugqhnphejhbyuq?”

“ByuqhuohoejhOpus’phbsufnx phaurxs!hNhpex yqhoenglhpx!hNo’phuhmsxxa
ej’phqjpjsrjqhno,”hpunqhoejhmxsojshpjrjsjychugqhpjsnx pyck

Pjscxdeuhajyyhoxhqsjutngb,hbudngbh mhuohoejhaufjhxahoejhmxsojs,hzenfe
ejheuqhoexsx beychpo qnjqhnghjrjschqjouny,hjpmjfnuyychoejhfenghoeuo
e gbhqxzghijozjjghoejhbsuchzenpljsp,hgjrjshpjjghichugcxgjhi ohPjscxdeu,
zexhpuzhenthxgychasxthijyxzk

“Zjyy,hugqheuphcx shqu beojshijjghoxhpjjhcx hyuojyc?”

Oejhmxsojs’phqu beojshzuphuhiuyyjohqugfjsk

“Zejghnphpejhoxhfxtjhxghzjjl-qucp?hOejc’rjhoejnshyjppxgphoxhyjusghoxxk
Ugqhcx ’rjhcx shyjppxg,hpns;hs ghuyxgbk”

Xghfxtngbhngoxhoejhsxxt,hPjscxdeu,hngpojuqhxahpnoongbhqxzghoxhenp
yjppxgp,hoxyqhenpho oxshxahenphp mmxpnonxghoeuohzeuoheuqhijjghisx beo
entht pohijhuhtufengjkh“Zeuohqxhcx hoengl?”hejhngw nsjqk

I ohRuppnychY lnofehzuphoenglngbhxahgxoengbhi ohoejhgjfjppnochxa
yjusgngbhoejhbsuttushyjppxghaxshoejhojufejs,hzexhzuphfxtngbhuohozxk

“Gx,hqxh. pohojyyhtj,hRuppnychY lnofe,”hejhupljqhp qqjgyc,hzejghejhzup
pjuojqhuohoejnshzxslhouiyjhznoehoejhixxlhnghenpheugqp,h“zeuohnphbsjuojs
oeughoejhUyjvugqjshGjrplc?hCx hlgxzhmumu’phsjfjnrjqhoejhUyjvugqjs
Gjrplc?”

RuppnychY lnofehsjmynjqhoeuohoejhRyuqntnshzuphbsjuojshoeughoej
UyjvugqjshGjrplck

“Ugqhenbejshponyy?”

“Zjyy,henbejpohxahuyyhnphoejhUgqsjchMjsrxdruggck”

“UgqhenbejshoeughoejhUgqsjc?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzk”

“Zeuo,hcx hqxg’ohlgxz?”hugqhPjscxdeu,hyjugngbhxghenphjyixzp,hpuglhngox
qjjmhtjqnouonxgk

EnphtjqnouonxgphzjsjhxahoejhtxpohfxtmyjvhugqhqnrjspjhfeusufojskhEj
ntubngjqhenphauoejs’pheurngbhp qqjgychijjghmsjpjgojqhznoehixoehoej
RyuqntnshugqhoejhUgqsjchoxquc,hugqhnghfxgpjw jgfjhijngbht fehijoojs
ojtmjsjqhuohenphyjppxg,hugqhqsjutjqhexz,hzejghejhzuphbsxzgh m,hejhzx yq
entpjyahsjfjnrjhuyyhoejhxsqjsp,hugqhzeuohoejchtnbeohngrjgohenbejshoeug
oejhUgqsjckhQnsjfoychugchenbejshxsqjshzjsjhngrjgojq,hejhzx yqhznghnok
Oejchzx yqhtuljhuhenbejshxgjhponyy,hugqhejhzx yqhnttjqnuojychznghoeuo
oxxk

Oejhontjhmuppjqhnghp fehtjqnouonxgp,hugqhzejghoejhojufejshfutj,hoej
yjppxghuix ohoejhuqrjsiphxahmyufjhugqhontjhugqhtuggjshxahufonxghzuphgxo
sjuqc,hugqhoejhojufejshzuphgxohxgychqnpmyjupjq,hi ohe sokhOenphox fejq
PjscxdeukhEjhajyohejhzuphgxohoxhiyutjhaxshgxoheurngbhyjusgjqhoej
yjppxg;hexzjrjsht fehejhosnjq,hejhzuph oojsych guiyjhoxhqxhoeuokhUp
yxgbhuphoejhojufejshzuphjvmyungngbhoxhent,hejhijynjrjqhenthugqhpjjtjq
oxhfxtmsjejgq,hi ohuphpxxghuphejhzuphyjaohuyxgj,hejhzuphmxpnonrjyc
 guiyjhoxhsjfxyyjfohugqhoxh gqjspougqhoeuohoejhpexsohugqhautnynushzxsq
“p qqjgyc”hnphughuqrjsihxahtuggjshxahufonxgkhPonyyhejhzuphpxsschoeuohej
euqhqnpummxngojqhoejhojufejsk

Ejhfexpjhuhtxtjgohzejghoejhojufejshzuphyxxlngbhnghpnyjgfjhuohoejhixxlk

“TneunyhNrugnofe,hzejghnphcx shinsoequc?”hejhupljqhuyy,hxahuhp qqjgk

“Cx ’qht fehijoojshijhoenglngbhuix ohcx shzxslkhInsoequcphusjhxahgx
ntmxsougfjhoxhuhsuonxguyhijngbkhNo’phuhquchynljhugchxoejshxghzenfehxgj
euphoxhqxhxgj’phzxslk”

Pjscxdeuhyxxljqhngojgoychuohoejhojufejs,huohenphpfugochijusq,huohenp
pmjfoufyjp,hzenfeheuqhpynmmjqhqxzghijyxzhoejhsnqbjhxghenphgxpj,hugq
ajyyhngoxhpxhqjjmhuhsjrjsnjhoeuohejhejusqhgxoengbhxahzeuohoejhojufejs
zuphjvmyungngbhoxhentkhEjhlgjzhoeuohoejhojufejshqnqhgxohoenglhzeuohej
punq;hejhajyohnohasxthoejhoxgjhnghzenfehnohzuphpunqkh“I ohzecheurjhoejc
uyyhubsjjqhoxhpmjulh. pohnghoejhputjhtuggjshuyzucphoejhqsjusnjpohugq
txpoh pjyjpphpo aa?hZechqxjphejhljjmhtjhxaa;hzechqxjpg’ohejhyxrjhtj?”
ejhupljqhentpjyahtx sga yyc,hugqhfx yqhgxohoenglhxahughugpzjsk


Feumojsh27

Uaojshoejhyjppxghznoehoejhbsuttushojufejshfutjhenphauoejs’phyjppxgk
Zenyjhzunongbhaxshenphauoejs,hPjscxdeuhpuohuohoejhouiyjhmyucngbhznoehu
mjglgnaj,hugqhajyyhoxhqsjutngbkhUtxgbhPjscxdeu’phaurxsnojhxff muonxgp
zuphpjusfengbhaxshenphtxoejshq sngbhenphzuylpkhEjhqnqhgxohijynjrjhng
qjuoehbjgjsuyyc,hugqhnghejshqjuoehnghmusonf yus,hnghpmnojhxahzeuohYnqnu
Nrugxrguheuqhoxyqhenthugqhenphauoejsheuqhfxganstjq,hugqhnohzuph. po
ijfu pjhxahoeuo,hugqhuaojshejheuqhijjghoxyqhpejhzuphqjuq,hoeuohejheuq
ijb ghyxxlngbhaxshejshzejghx ohaxshuhzuylkhJrjschzxtughxaha yy,
bsufja yhanb sjhznoehquslheunshzuphenphtxoejskhUohoejhpnbeohxahp fehu
zxtughp fehuhajjyngbhxahojgqjsgjpphzuphponssjqhznoenghenthoeuohenp
isjuoehaunyjqhent,hugqhojusphfutjhngoxhenphjcjpkhUgqhejhzuphxghoej
onmoxjhxahjvmjfouonxghoeuohpejhzx yqhfxtjh mhoxhent,hzx yqhynaohejs
rjnykhUyyhejshaufjhzx yqhijhrnpniyj,hpejhzx yqhptnyj,hpejhzx yqhe b
ent,hejhzx yqhpgnaahejshasubsugfj,hajjyhoejhpxaogjpphxahejshustp,hugq
fschznoeheummngjpp,h. pohuphejheuqhxgjhjrjgngbhyunghxghejshyumhzenyj
pejhonflyjqhent,hugqhejhyu bejqhugqhinohejshzenoj,hsngb-fxrjsjq
angbjspkhYuojs,hzejghejhuffnqjgouyychyjusgjqhasxthenphxyqhg spjhoeuo
enphtxoejshzuphgxohqjuq,hugqhenphauoejshugqhYnqnuhNrugxrguheuq
jvmyungjqhoxhenthoeuohpejhzuphqjuqhoxhenthijfu pjhpejhzuphznfljqh(zenfe
ejhfx yqhgxohmxppniychijynjrj,hijfu pjhejhyxrjqhejs),hejhzjgohxg
pjjlngbhejshugqhjvmjfongbhejshnghoejhputjhzuckhOeuohquchnghoejhm iynf
busqjgphoejsjheuqhijjghuhyuqchnghuhynyufhrjny,hzexthejheuqhzuofejqhznoe
uhoesxiingbhejuso,hijynjrngbhnohoxhijhpejhuphpejhfutjhoxzusqphoejt
uyxgbhoejhmuoekhOejhyuqcheuqhgxohfxtjh mhoxhoejt,hi oheuqhqnpummjusjq
pxtjzejsjkhOeuohquc,htxsjhngojgpjychoeughjrjs,hPjscxdeuhajyohuhs pehxa
yxrjhaxshejs,hugqhgxz,hzunongbhaxshenphauoejs,hejhaxsbxohjrjscoengb,
ugqhf ohuyyhsx gqhoejhjqbjhxahoejhouiyjhznoehenphmjglgnaj,hpousngb
posunbeohijaxsjhenthznoehpmuslyngbhjcjphugqhqsjutngbhxahejsk

“Ejsjhnphcx shmumu!”hpunqhRuppnychY lnofe,hsx pngbhentk

Pjscxdeuh. tmjqh mhugqhzjgoh mhoxhenphauoejs,hugqhlnppngbhenpheugq,
yxxljqhuohenthngojgoyc,hoscngbhoxhqnpfxrjshpnbgphxahenph.xchuo
sjfjnrngbhoejhUyjvugqjshGjrplck

“Qnqhcx heurjhuhgnfjhzuyl?”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpnoongbhqxzghng
enphjupchfeuns,hm yyngbhoejhrxy tjhxahoejhXyqhOjpoutjgohoxhenthugq
xmjgngbhnokhUyoex behUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofeheuqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhoxyq
PjscxdeuhoeuohjrjschFesnponughx beohoxhlgxzhPfsnmo sjhenpoxsc
oexsx beyc,hejhxaojghsjajssjqhoxhoejhIniyjhentpjyahq sngbhoejhyjppxg,
ugqhPjscxdeuhxipjsrjqhoenpk

“Cjp,hnohzuphrjschgnfjhngqjjq,hmumu,”hpunqhPjscxdeu,hpnoongbhpnqjzucp
xghenphfeunshugqhsxflngbhno,hzenfehzuphaxsinqqjgkh“NhpuzhGuqnglu”
(GuqngluhzuphuhgnjfjhxahYnqnuhNrugxrgu’phzexhzuphijngbhisx beoh mhng
ejshex pj)kh“Pejhoxyqhtjhcx ’qhijjghbnrjghuhgjzhpouskhUsjhcx hbyuq,
mumu?”

“Anspohxahuyy,hqxg’ohsxflhcx shfeuns,hmyjupj,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofekh“Ugqhpjfxgqyc,hno’phgxohoejhsjzusqhoeuo’phmsjfnx p,hi o
oejhzxslhnopjyakhUgqhNhfx yqheurjhznpejqhcx h gqjspoxxqhoeuokhNahcx 
gxzhusjhbxngbhoxhzxsl,hoxhpo qchnghxsqjshoxhznghuhsjzusq,hoejghoejhzxsl
znyyhpjjtheusqhoxhcx ;hi ohzejghcx hzxsl”h(UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,huphej
pmxlj,hoex beohxahexzhejheuqhijjghp poungjqhichuhpjgpjhxahq ochoesx be
oejhzjusnpxtjhyuixshxahoejhtxsgngb,hfxgpnpongbhxahpnbgngbhxgjhe gqsjq
ugqhjnbeochmumjsp),h“yxrngbhcx shzxsl,hcx hznyyhangqhcx shsjzusqhng
nok”

Pjscxdeu’phjcjp,hoeuoheuqhijjghpengngbhznoehbunjochugqhojgqjsgjpp,hbsjz
q yyhugqhqsxmmjqhijaxsjhenphauoejs’phbudjkhOenphzuphoejhputj
yxgb-autnynushoxgjhenphauoejshuyzucphoxxlhznoehent,hugqhPjscxdeuheuq
yjusgjqhichgxzhoxhauyyhnghznoehnokhEnphauoejshuyzucphouyljqhoxhent—px
Pjscxdeuhajyo—uphoex behejhzjsjhuqqsjppngbhpxtjhixchxahenphxzg
ntubnguonxg,hxgjhxahoexpjhixcphoeuohjvnpohnghixxlp,h oojsych gynlj
entpjyakhUgqhPjscxdeuhuyzucphosnjqhznoehenphauoejshoxhufohijngbhoej
poxsc-ixxlhixck

“Cx h gqjspougqhoeuo,hNhexmj?”hpunqhenphauoejsk

“Cjp,hmumu,”hugpzjsjqhPjscxdeu,hufongbhoejhmusohxahoejhntubnguschixck

Oejhyjppxghfxgpnpojqhxahyjusgngbhichejusohpjrjsuyhrjspjphx ohxahoej
BxpmjyhugqhoejhsjmjononxghxahoejhijbnggngbhxahoejhXyqhOjpoutjgokhOej
rjspjphasxthoejhBxpmjyhPjscxdeuhlgjzhaunsychzjyy,hi ohuohoejhtxtjgo
zejghejhzuphpucngbhoejthejhijfutjhpxhuipxsijqhnghzuofengbhoejhpeusmyc
msxos qngb,hixgchlgxiingjpphxahenphauoejs’phaxsjejuq,hoeuohejhyxpohoej
oesjuq,hugqhejhosugpmxpjqhoejhjgqhxahxgjhrjspjhugqhoejhijbnggngbhxa
ugxoejskhPxhnohzuphjrnqjgohoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoeuohejhqnqhgxo
 gqjspougqhzeuohejhzuphpucngb,hugqhoeuohnssnouojqhentk

Ejhasxzgjq,hugqhijbughjvmyungngbhzeuohPjscxdeuheuqhejusqhtugchontjp
ijaxsjhugqhgjrjshfx yqhsjtjtijs,hijfu pjhejh gqjspoxxqhnohoxxhzjyy,
. pohuphoeuoh“p qqjgyc”hnphughuqrjsihxahtuggjshxahufonxgkhPjscxdeu
yxxljqhznoehpfusjqhjcjphuohenphauoejs,hugqhfx yqhoenglhxahgxoengbhi o
zejoejshenphauoejshzx yqhtuljhenthsjmjuohzeuohejheuqhpunq,huphej
pxtjontjphqnqkhUgqhoenphoex beohpxhuyustjqhPjscxdeuhoeuohejhgxz
 gqjspoxxqhgxoengbkhI ohenphauoejshqnqhgxohtuljhenthsjmjuohno,hugq
muppjqhxghoxhoejhyjppxghx ohxahoejhXyqhOjpoutjgokhPjscxdeuhsjfx gojq
oejhjrjgophoejtpjyrjphzjyyhjgx be,hi ohzejghejheuqhoxhugpzjshw jponxgp
uphoxhzeuohfjsounghjrjgophmsjanb sjq,hejhlgjzhgxoengb,hoex behejheuq
uysjuqchijjghm gnpejqhxrjshoenphyjppxgkhOejhmuppubjhuohzenfehejhzup
 oojsych guiyjhoxhpuchugcoengb,hugqhijbughanqbjongbhugqhf oongbhoej
ouiyjhugqhpzngbngbhenphfeuns,hzuphzejsjhejheuqhoxhsjmjuohoejhmuosnusfep
ijaxsjhoejhAyxxqkhEjhqnqhgxohlgxzhxgjhxahoejt,hjvfjmohJgxfe,hzexheuq
ijjghouljgh mhuynrjhoxhejurjgkhYupohontjhejheuqhsjtjtijsjqhoejnshgutjp,
i ohgxzhejheuqhaxsbxoojghoejth oojsyc,hfenjaychijfu pjhJgxfehzuphoej
mjspxgubjhejhynljqhijpohnghoejhzexyjhxahoejhXyqhOjpoutjgo,hugqhJgxfe’p
osugpyuonxghoxhejurjghzuphfxggjfojqhnghenphtngqhznoehuhzexyjhyxgbhosung
xahoex beo,hnghzenfehejhijfutjhuipxsijqhgxzhzenyjhejhbudjqhznoe
aupfnguojqhjcjphuohenphauoejs’phzuofe-feunghugqhuheuya- gi ooxgjq
i ooxghxghenphzunpofxuok

Nghqjuoe,hxahzenfehoejchouyljqhoxhenthpxhxaojg,hPjscxdeuhqnpijynjrjq
jgonsjyckhEjhqnqhgxohijynjrjhoeuohoexpjhejhyxrjqhfx yqhqnj,huixrjhuyy
oeuohejhentpjyahzx yqhqnjkhOeuohzuphoxhenthpxtjoengbh oojsyc
ngfxgfjnruiyjhugqhntmxppniyjkhI ohejheuqhijjghoxyqhoeuohuyyhtjghqnj;hej
euqhupljqhmjxmyj,hngqjjq,hzexthejhos pojq,hugqhoejchoxx,heuqhfxganstjq
no;henphxyqhg spj,hoxx,hpunqhoejhputj,hoex behsjy fougoyckhI ohJgxfe
euqhgxohqnjq,hugqhpxhnohaxyyxzjqhoeuohjrjscxgjhqnqhgxohqnjkh“Ugqhzec
fuggxohugcxgjhjypjhpxhpjsrjhBxqhugqhijhouljghuynrjhoxhejurjg?”hoex beo
PjscxdeukhIuqhmjxmyj,hoeuohnphoexpjhPjscxdeuhqnqhgxohynlj,hoejchtnbeo
qnj,hi ohoejhbxxqhtnbeohuyyhijhynljhJgxfek

“Zjyy,hzeuohusjhoejhgutjphxahoejhmuosnusfep?”

“Jgxfe,hJgxp—“

“I ohcx heurjhpunqhoeuohuysjuqckhOenphnphiuq,hPjscxdeu,hrjschiuqkhNa
cx hqxg’ohoschoxhyjusghzeuohnphtxsjhgjfjppuschoeughugcoengbhaxshu
Fesnponug,”hpunqhenphauoejs,hbjoongbh m,h“zeuojrjshfughngojsjpohcx ?hN
uthqnpmyjupjqhznoehcx ,hugqhMnxoshNbguonofe”h(oenphzuphoejhtxpo
ntmxsougohxahenphojufejsp)h“nphqnpmyjupjqhznoehcx kkkkhNhpeuyyheurjhox
m gnpehcx k”

EnphauoejshugqhenphojufejshzjsjhixoehqnpmyjupjqhznoehPjscxdeu,hugqhej
fjsoungychqnqhyjusghenphyjppxgphrjschiuqyckhI ohponyyhnohfx yqhgxohij
punqhejhzuphuhpo mnqhixckhXghoejhfxgosusc,hejhzuphaushfyjrjsjshoeughoej
ixcphenphojufejshejyqh mhuphjvutmyjphoxhPjscxdeukhNghenphauoejs’p
xmngnxg,hejhqnqhgxohzugohoxhyjusghzeuohejhzuphou beokhNghsjuynochej
fx yqhgxohyjusghoeuokhEjhfx yqhgxo,hijfu pjhoejhfyuntphxahenphxzghpx y
zjsjhtxsjhingqngbhxghenthoeughoexpjhfyuntphenphauoejshugqhenphojufejs
tuqjh mxghentkhOexpjhfyuntphzjsjhnghxmmxpnonxg,hugqhejhzuphnghqnsjfo
fxgaynfohznoehenphjq fuonxgkhEjhzuphgngjhcjusphxyq;hejhzuphuhfenyq;hi o
ejhlgjzhenphxzghpx y,hnohzuphmsjfnx phoxhent,hejhb usqjqhnohuphoej
jcjynqhb usqphoejhjcj,hugqhznoex ohoejhljchxahyxrjhejhyjohgxhxgjhngox
enphpx ykhEnphojufejsphfxtmyungjqhoeuohejhzx yqhgxohyjusg,hzenyjhenp
px yhzuphisnttngbhxrjshznoehoenspohaxshlgxzyjqbjkhUgqhejhyjusgjqhasxt
Lumnoxgnofe,hasxthenphg spj,hasxthGuqnglu,hasxthRuppnychY lnofe,hi o
gxohasxthenphojufejspkhOejhpmsngbhenphauoejshugqhenphojufejsphsjflxgjq
 mxghoxho sghoejnshtnyy-zejjypheuqhyxgbhqsnjqh mhuohoejhpx sfj,hi ohnop
zuojsphqnqhoejnshzxslhnghugxoejshfeuggjyk

Enphauoejshm gnpejqhPjscxdeuhichgxohyjoongbhenthbxhoxhpjjhGuqnglu,
YnqnuhNrugxrgu’phgnjfj;hi ohoenphm gnpetjgoho sgjqhx oheummnychaxs
PjscxdeukhRuppnychY lnofehzuphnghuhbxxqhe txs,hugqhpexzjqhenthexzhox
tuljhzngqtnyypkhOejhzexyjhjrjgngbhmuppjqhxrjshoenphzxslhugqhnghqsjutngb
exzhoxhtuljhuhzngqtnyyhxghzenfehejhfx yqho sghentpjya—fy ofengbhuohoej
punyphxshocngbhentpjyahxghugqhzensyngbhsx gqkhXahenphtxoejshPjscxdeu
qnqhgxohoenglhuyyhoejhjrjgngb,hi ohzejghejheuqhbxgjhoxhijq,hejhp qqjgyc
sjtjtijsjqhejs,hugqhmsucjqhnghenphxzghzxsqphoeuohenphtxoejshoxtxssxz
axshenphinsoequchtnbeohyjurjhxaahenqngbhejspjyahugqhfxtjhoxhentk

“RuppnychY lnofe,hqxhcx hlgxzhzeuohNhmsucjqhaxshoxgnbeohjvosuhijpnqjp
oejhsjb yushoengbp?”

“Oeuohcx htnbeohyjusghcx shyjppxgphijoojs?”

“Gxk”

“Oxcp?”

“GxkhCx ’yyhgjrjshb jppkhUhpmyjgqnqhoengb;hi ohno’phuhpjfsjo!hZejghno
fxtjphoxhmupphN’yyhojyyhcx khFug’ohcx hb jpp!”

“Gx,hNhfug’ohb jppkhCx hojyyhtj,”hpunqhRuppnychY lnofehznoehuhptnyj,
zenfehzuphsusjhznoehentkh“Fxtj,hynjhqxzg,hN’thm oongbhx ohoejhfugqyjk”

“Znoex ohoejhfugqyjhNhfughpjjhijoojshzeuohNhpjjhugqhzeuohNhmsucjqhaxsk
Oejsj!hNhzuphuytxpohojyyngbhoejhpjfsjo!”hpunqhPjscxdeu,hyu bengbhbunyck

Zejghoejhfugqyjhzuphouljghuzuc,hPjscxdeuhejusqhugqhajyohenphtxoejskhPej
poxxqhxrjshent,hugqhznoehyxrngbhjcjphfusjppjqhentkhI ohoejghfutj
zngqtnyyp,huhlgnaj,hjrjscoengbhijbughoxhijhtnvjqh m,hugqhejhajyy
upyjjmk


Feumojsh28

XghussnrngbhnghMjojspi sb,hRsxgplchugqhUgguhpoucjqhuohxgjhxahoejhijpo
exojyp;hRsxgplchumusohnghuhyxzjshpoxsc,hUgguhuixrjhznoehejshfenyq,hnop
g spj,hugqhejshtunq,hnghuhyusbjhp nojhxahax shsxxtpk

XghoejhquchxahenphussnruyhRsxgplchzjgohoxhenphisxoejs’pkhOejsjhejhax gq
enphtxoejs,hzexheuqhfxtjhasxthTxpfxzhxghi pngjppkhEnphtxoejshugq
pnpojs-ng-yuzhbsjjojqhenthuph p uy:hoejchupljqhenthuix ohenphpouc
uisxuq,hugqhouyljqhxahoejnshfxttxghufw ungougfjp,hi ohqnqhgxohyjohqsxm
uhpngbyjhzxsqhnghuyy pnxghoxhenphfxggjfonxghznoehUggukhEnphisxoejshfutj
oejhgjvohtxsgngbhoxhpjjhRsxgplc,hugqhxahenphxzghuffxsqhupljqhenthuix o
ejs,hugqhUyjvjchRsxgplchoxyqhenthqnsjfoychoeuohejhyxxljqh mxghenp
fxggjfonxghznoehTuqutjhLusjgnguhuphtussnubj;hoeuohejhexmjqhoxhussugbjhu
qnrxsfj,hugqhoejghoxhtusschejs,hugqh gonyhoejghejhfxgpnqjsjqhejshup
t fehuhznajhuphugchxoejshznaj,hugqhejhijbbjqhenthoxhojyyhoejnshtxoejs
ugqhenphznajhpxk

“Nahoejhzxsyqhqnpummsxrjp,hNhqxg’ohfusj,”hpunqhRsxgplc;h“i ohnahtc
sjyuonxgphzugohoxhijhxghojstphxahsjyuonxgpenmhznoehtj,hoejchznyyheurj
oxhijhxghoejhputjhojstphznoehtchznajk”

Oejhjyqjshisxoejs,hzexheuqhuyzucphuhsjpmjfohaxshenphcx gbjshisxoejs’p
. qbtjgo,hfx yqhgxohzjyyhojyyhzejoejshejhzuphsnbeohxshgxohonyyhoej
zxsyqheuqhqjfnqjqhoejhw jponxg;haxshenphmusohejheuqhgxoengbhubungpohno,
ugqhznoehUyjvjchejhzjgoh mhoxhpjjhUgguk

Ijaxsjhenphisxoejs,huphijaxsjhjrjscxgj,hRsxgplchuqqsjppjqhUgguhznoehu
fjsounghaxstuynoc,hosjuongbhejshuphejhtnbeohuhrjschngontuojhasnjgq,hi o
nohzuph gqjspoxxqhoeuohenphisxoejshlgjzhoejnshsjuyhsjyuonxgp,hugqhoejc
ouyljqhuix ohUggu’phbxngbhoxhRsxgplc’phjpouojk

NghpmnojhxahuyyhenphpxfnuyhjvmjsnjgfjhRsxgplchzup,hnghfxgpjw jgfjhxa
oejhgjzhmxpnonxghnghzenfehejhzuphmyufjq,hyuixsngbh gqjshuhposugbj
tnpummsjejgpnxgkhXgjhzx yqheurjhoex beohejht poheurjh gqjspoxxqhoeuo
pxfnjochzuphfyxpjqhaxshenthugqhUggu;hi ohgxzhpxtjhrub jhnqjupheuq
pms gbh mhnghenphisunghoeuohoenphzuphxgychoejhfupjhnghxyq-aupenxgjq
qucp,hugqhoeuohgxzhznoehoejhsumnqnochxahtxqjsghmsxbsjpph(ejheuq
 gfxgpfnx pychijfxtjhichgxzhuhmusonpughxahjrjschpxsohxahmsxbsjpp)hoej
rnjzphxahpxfnjocheuqhfeugbjq,hugqhoeuohoejhw jponxghzejoejshoejchzx yq
ijhsjfjnrjqhnghpxfnjochzuphgxohuhaxsjbxgjhfxgfy pnxgkh“Xahfx spj,”hej
oex beo,h“pejhzx yqhgxohijhsjfjnrjqhuohfx so,hi ohngontuojhasnjgqphfug
ugqht pohyxxlhuohnohnghoejhmsxmjshynbeok”hXgjhtuchpnohaxshpjrjsuyhex sp
uohuhposjofehznoehxgj’phyjbphfsxppjqhnghoejhputjhmxpnonxg,hnahxgjhlgxzp
oeuohoejsj’phgxoengbhoxhmsjrjgohxgj’phfeugbngbhxgj’phmxpnonxg;hi ohnahu
tughlgxzphoeuohejht pohsjtunghpnoongbhpxhznoehfsxppjqhyjbp,hoejghfsutmp
fxtjhxg,hoejhyjbphijbnghoxhoznofehugqhoxhposunghoxzusqphoejhpmxohox
zenfehxgjhzx yqhynljhoxhqsuzhoejtkhOenphzuphzeuohRsxgplchzup
jvmjsnjgfngbhnghsjbusqhoxhoejhzxsyqkhOex behuohoejhixooxthxahenphejuso
ejhlgjzhoeuohoejhzxsyqhzuphpe ohxghoejt,hejhm ohnohoxhoejhojpohzejoejs
oejhzxsyqheuqhgxohfeugbjqhichgxzhugqhzx yqhgxohsjfjnrjhoejtkhI ohej
rjschw nflychmjsfjnrjqhoeuohoex behoejhzxsyqhzuphxmjghaxshent
mjspxguyyc,hnohzuphfyxpjqhaxshUggukh. pohuphnghoejhbutjhxahfuohugq
tx pj,hoejheugqphsunpjqhaxshenthzjsjhqsxmmjqhoxhiushoejhzuchaxshUgguk

XgjhxahoejhanspohyuqnjphxahMjojspi sbhpxfnjochzexthRsxgplchpuzhzuphenp
fx pnghIjopck

“Uohyupo!”hpejhbsjjojqhenth.xca yyckh“UgqhUggu?hExzhbyuqhNhut!hZejsj
usjhcx hpoxmmngb?hNhfughaugfchuaojshcx shqjynbeoa yhosurjyphcx ht po
angqhx shmxxshMjojspi sbhexssnqkhNhfughaugfchcx shexgjctxxghnghSxtjk
Exzhuix ohoejhqnrxsfj?hNphoeuohuyyhxrjs?”

RsxgplchgxonfjqhoeuohIjopc’phjgoe pnupthzugjqhzejghpejhyjusgjqhoeuohgx
qnrxsfjheuqhuphcjohouljghmyufjk

“Mjxmyjhznyyhoesxzhpoxgjphuohtj,hNhlgxz,”hpejhpunq,h“i ohNhpeuyyhfxtj
ugqhpjjhUggu;hcjp,hNhpeuyyhfjsoungychfxtjkhCx hzxg’ohijhejsjhyxgb,hN
p mmxpj?”

UgqhpejhqnqhfjsoungychfxtjhoxhpjjhUgguhoejhputjhquc,hi ohejshoxgjhzup
gxohuohuyyhoejhputjhuphnghaxstjshqucpkhPejh gtnpouluiychmsnqjqhejspjya
xghejshfx subj,hugqhznpejqhUgguhoxhummsjfnuojhoejhanqjynochxahejs
asnjgqpenmkhPejhxgychpoucjqhojghtng ojp,houylngbhxahpxfnjochbxppnm,hugq
xghyjurngbhpejhpunq:

“Cx ’rjhgjrjshoxyqhtjhzejghoejhqnrxsfjhnphoxhij?hP mmxpngbhN’thsjuqchox
ayngbhtchfumhxrjshoejhtnyy,hxoejshpousfechmjxmyjhznyyhbnrjhcx hoejhfxyq
pex yqjsh gonyhcx ’sjhtussnjqkhUgqhoeuo’phpxhpntmyjhgxzuqucpkh_Çuhpj
auno_khPxhcx ’sjhbxngbhxghAsnquc?hPxsschzjhpeug’ohpjjhjufehxoejs
ubungk”

AsxthIjopc’phoxgjhRsxgplchtnbeoheurjhbsupmjqhzeuohejheuqhoxhjvmjfohasxt
oejhzxsyq;hi ohejhtuqjhugxoejshjaaxsohnghenphxzghautnyckhEnphtxoejshej
qnqhgxohsjflxgh mxgkhEjhlgjzhoeuohenphtxoejs,hzexheuqhijjghpx
jgoe pnuponfhxrjshUgguhuohoejnshanspohufw ungougfj,hzx yqheurjhgxhtjsfc
xghejshgxzhaxsheurngbhs ngjqhejshpxg’phfusjjskhI ohejheuqhtxsjhexmjhxa
Ruscu,henphisxoejs’phznajkhEjhaugfnjqhpejhzx yqhgxohoesxzhpoxgjp,hugq
zx yqhbxhpntmychugqhqnsjfoychoxhpjjhUggu,hugqhzx yqhsjfjnrjhejshnghejs
xzghex pjk

OejhquchuaojshenphussnruyhRsxgplchzjgohoxhejs,hugqhangqngbhejshuyxgj,
jvmsjppjqhenphznpejphqnsjfoyck

“Cx hlgxz,hUyjvjc,”hpejhpunqhuaojshejusngbhent,h“exzhaxgqhNhuthxahcx ,
ugqhexzhsjuqchNhuthoxhqxhugcoengbhaxshcx ;hi ohNheurjhgxohpmxljg,
ijfu pjhNhlgjzhNhfx yqhijhxahgxh pjhoxhcx hugqhoxhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hpej
punq,husonf yuongbhoejhgutjh“UgguhUsluqcjrgu”hznoehmusonf yushfusjk
“Qxg’ohp mmxpj,hmyjupj,hoeuohNh. qbjhejskhGjrjs;hmjseumphnghejshmyufjhN
pex yqheurjhqxgjhoejhputjkhNhqxg’ohugqhfug’ohjgojshngoxhoeuo,”hpej
punq,hbyugfngbhontnqychuohenphbyxxtchaufjkh“I ohxgjht pohfuyyhoengbphic
oejnshgutjpkhCx hzugohtjhoxhbxhugqhpjjhejs,hoxhuplhejshejsj,hugqhox
sjeuinynouojhejshnghpxfnjoc;hi ohqxh gqjspougqhoeuoh_Nhfuggxo_hqxhpxkhN
eurjhqu beojsphbsxzngbh m,hugqhNht pohynrjhnghoejhzxsyqhaxshtc
e piugq’phpuljkhZjyy,hN’thsjuqchoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhUgguhUsluqcjrgu:hpej
znyyh gqjspougqhoeuohNhfug’ohuplhejshejsj,hxshNhpex yqheurjhoxhqxhpxhng
p fehuhzuchoeuohpejhzx yqhgxohtjjohmjxmyjhzexhyxxlhuohoengbp
qnaajsjgoyc;hoeuohzx yqhxaajgqhejskhNhfug’ohsunpjhejskkkk”

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohsjbusqhejshuphauyyjghtxsjhoeughe gqsjqphxahzxtjghcx hqx
sjfjnrj!”hRsxgplchngojss mojqhejshponyyhtxsjhbyxxtnyc,hugqhejhbxoh mhng
pnyjgfj,h gqjspougqngbhoeuohenphpnpojs-ng-yuz’phqjfnpnxghzuphgxohoxhij
peuljgk

“Uyjvjc!hqxg’ohijhugbschznoehtjkhMyjupjh gqjspougqhoeuohN’thgxohox
iyutj,”hijbughRuscu,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoehuhontnqhptnyjk

“N’thgxohugbschznoehcx ,”hejhpunqhponyyhuphbyxxtnyc;h“i ohN’thpxsschng
ozxhzucpkhN’thpxssc,hoxx,hoeuohoenphtjugphisjulngbh mhx shasnjgqpenm—na
gxohisjulngbh m,huohyjupohzjuljgngbhnokhCx hznyyh gqjspougqhoeuohaxs
tj,hoxx,hnohfuggxohijhxoejsznpjk”

Ugqhznoehoeuohejhyjaohejsk

Rsxgplchlgjzhoeuoha soejshjaaxsophzjsjh pjyjpp,hugqhoeuohejheuqhox
pmjgqhoejpjhajzhqucphnghMjojspi sbhuphoex behnghuhposugbjhoxzg,
urxnqngbhjrjschpxsohxahsjyuonxghznoehenphxzghxyqhfnsfyjhnghxsqjshgxohox
ijhjvmxpjqhoxhoejhuggxcugfjphugqhe tnynuonxgphzenfehzjsjhpxhngoxyjsuiyj
oxhentkhXgjhxahoejhtxpoh gmyjupugohajuo sjphxahenphmxpnonxghng
Mjojspi sbhzuphoeuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhenphgutjhpjjtjqhoxhtjjo
enthjrjsczejsjkhEjhfx yqhgxohijbnghoxhouylhxahugcoengbhznoex ohoej
fxgrjspuonxgho sgngbhxghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe;hejhfx yqhgxohbxhugczejsj
znoex ohsnplhxahtjjongbhentkhPxhuohyjupohnohpjjtjqhoxhRsxgplc,h. pohup
nohpjjtphoxhuhtughznoehuhpxsjhangbjshoeuohejhnphfxgong uyyc,huphoex be
xghm smxpj,hbsudngbhenphpxsjhangbjshxghjrjscoengbk

OejnshpouchnghMjojspi sbhzuphoejhtxsjhmunga yhoxhRsxgplchoeuohej
mjsfjnrjqhuyyhoejhontjhuhpxsohxahgjzhtxxqhoeuohejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougq
nghUggukhUohxgjhontjhpejhzx yqhpjjthnghyxrjhznoehent,hugqhoejghpej
zx yqhijfxtjhfxyq,hnssnouiyj,hugqhntmjgjosuiyjkhPejhzuphzxsscngbhxrjs
pxtjoengb,hugqhljjmngbhpxtjoengbhiuflhasxthent,hugqhqnqhgxohpjjthox
gxonfjhoejhe tnynuonxgphzenfehmxnpxgjqhenphjvnpojgfj,hugqhaxshejs,hznoe
ejshqjynfuojhngo nonxg,ht poheurjhijjghponyyhtxsjh gijusuiyjk


Feumojsh29

XgjhxahUggu’phxi.jfophnghfxtngbhiuflhoxhS ppnuheuqhijjghoxhpjjhejshpxgk
AsxthoejhquchpejhyjaohNouychoejhoex beohxahnoheuqhgjrjshfjupjqhox
ubnouojhejskhUgqhuphpejhbxohgjusjshoxhMjojspi sb,hoejhqjynbeohugq
ntmxsougfjhxahoenphtjjongbhbsjzhjrjshbsjuojshnghejshntubnguonxgkhPej
qnqhgxohjrjghm ohoxhejspjyahoejhw jponxghexzhoxhussugbjhnokhNohpjjtjq
oxhejshguo suyhugqhpntmyjhoxhpjjhejshpxghzejghpejhpex yqhijhnghoejhputj
oxzghznoehentkhI ohxghejshussnruyhnghMjojspi sbhpejhzuphp qqjgychtuqj
qnpongfoychuzusjhxahejshmsjpjgohmxpnonxghnghpxfnjoc,hugqhpejhbsupmjq
oejhaufohoeuohoxhussugbjhoenphtjjongbhzuphgxhjupchtuoojsk

PejheuqhgxzhijjghozxhqucphnghMjojspi sbkhOejhoex beohxahejshpxghgjrjs
yjaohejshaxshuhpngbyjhngpougo,hi ohpejheuqhgxohcjohpjjghentkhOxhbx
posunbeohoxhoejhex pj,hzejsjhpejhtnbeohtjjohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hoeuo
pejhajyohpejheuqhgxhsnbeohoxhqxkhPejhtnbeohijhsja pjqhuqtnoougfjhugq
ngp yojqkhOxhzsnojhugqhpxhjgojshngoxhsjyuonxgphznoehejshe piugq—oeuohno
tuqjhejshtnpjsuiyjhoxhoenglhxahqxngb;hpejhfx yqhxgychijhuohmjufjhzejg
pejhqnqhgxohoenglhxahejshe piugqkhOxhbjohuhbyntmpjhxahejshpxghx o
zuylngb,hangqngbhx ohzejsjhugqhzejghejhzjgohx o,hzuphgxohjgx behaxs
ejs;hpejheuqhpxhyxxljqhaxszusqhoxhoenphtjjongb,hpejheuqhpxht fehpej
t pohpuchoxhent,hpejhpxhyxgbjqhoxhjtisufjhent,hoxhlnpphentkhPjscxdeu’p
xyqhg spjhtnbeohijhuhejymhoxhejshugqhpexzhejshzeuohoxhqxkhI ohoejhg spj
zuphgxohgxzhynrngbhnghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’phex pjkhNghoenp
 gfjsoungoc,hugqhnghjaaxsophoxhangqhoejhg spj,hozxhqucpheuqhpynmmjqhick

EjusngbhxahoejhfyxpjhngontufchijozjjghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugq
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hUgguhqjfnqjqhxghoejhoensqhquchoxhzsnojhoxhejs
uhyjoojs,hzenfehfxpohejshbsjuohmungp,hugqhnghzenfehpejhngojgonxguyyc
punqhoeuohmjstnppnxghoxhpjjhejshpxght pohqjmjgqhxghejshe piugq’p
bjgjsxpnockhPejhlgjzhoeuohnahoejhyjoojshzjsjhpexzghoxhejshe piugq,hej
zx yqhljjmh mhenphfeusufojshxahtubgugntnoc,hugqhzx yqhgxohsja pjhejs
sjw jpok

Oejhfxttnppnxgunsjhzexhoxxlhoejhyjoojsheuqhisx beohejshiuflhoejhtxpo
fs jyhugqh gjvmjfojqhugpzjs,hoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhugpzjskhPejheuqhgjrjs
ajyohpxhe tnynuojqhuphuohoejhtxtjgohzejg,hpjgqngbhaxshoej
fxttnppnxgunsj,hpejhejusqhasxthenthoejhjvufohuffx gohxahexzhejheuq
zunojq,hugqhexzhuaojszusqphejheuqhijjghoxyqhoejsjhzuphgxhugpzjskhUggu
ajyohe tnynuojq,hngp yojq,hi ohpejhpuzhoeuohasxthejshmxngohxahrnjz
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhzuphsnbeokhEjshp aajsngbhzuphoejhtxsjhmxnbgugo
oeuohpejheuqhoxhijushnohnghpxyno qjkhPejhfx yqhgxohugqhzx yqhgxohpeusj
nohznoehRsxgplckhPejhlgjzhoeuohoxhent,huyoex behejhzuphoejhmsntusc
fu pjhxahejshqnposjpp,hoejhw jponxghxahejshpjjngbhejshpxghzx yqhpjjthu
tuoojshxahrjschynooyjhfxgpjw jgfjkhPejhlgjzhoeuohejhzx yqhgjrjshij
fumuiyjhxah gqjspougqngbhuyyhoejhqjmoehxahejshp aajsngb,hoeuohaxshenp
fxxyhoxgjhuohugchuyy pnxghoxhnohpejhzx yqhijbnghoxheuojhentkhUgqhpej
qsjuqjqhoeuohtxsjhoeughugcoengbhnghoejhzxsyq,hugqhpxhpejhenqhasxthent
jrjscoengbhoeuohsjyuojqhoxhejshpxgkhPmjgqngbhoejhzexyjhquchuohextjhpej
fxgpnqjsjqhzucphxahpjjngbhejshpxg,hugqheuqhsjufejqhuhqjfnpnxghoxhzsnoj
oxhejshe piugqkhPejhzuph. pohfxtmxpngbhoenphyjoojshzejghpejhzupheugqjq
oejhyjoojshasxthYnqnuhNrugxrgukhOejhfx gojpp’phpnyjgfjheuqhp iq jqhugq
qjmsjppjqhejs,hi ohoejhyjoojs,huyyhoeuohpejhsjuqhijozjjghoejhyngjphng
no,hpxhjvupmjsuojqhejs,hoenphtuynfjhzuphpxhsjrxyongbhijpnqjhejs
muppnxguoj,hyjbnontuojhojgqjsgjpphaxshejshpxg,hoeuohpejho sgjqhubungpo
xoejshmjxmyjhugqhyjaohxaahiyutngbhejspjyak

“Oenphfxyqgjpp—oenphmsjojgpjhxahajjyngb!”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyakh“Oejc
t pohgjjqphngp yohtjhugqhoxso sjhoejhfenyq,hugqhNhuthoxhp itnohoxhno!
Gxohxghugchfxgpnqjsuonxg!hPejhnphzxspjhoeughNhutkhNhqxg’ohynj,hugczuck”
Ugqhpejhqjfnqjqhxghoejhpmxohoeuohgjvohquc,hPjscxdeu’phinsoequc,hpej
zx yqhbxhposunbeohoxhejshe piugq’phex pj,hisnijhxshqjfjnrjhoej
pjsrugop,hi ohuohugchfxpohpjjhejshpxghugqhxrjso sghoejhenqjx p
qjfjmonxghznoehzenfehoejchzjsjhjgfxtmuppngbhoejh geummchfenyqk

Pejhzjgohoxhuhoxchpexm,hix beohoxcphugqhoex beohxrjshuhmyughxahufonxgk
Pejhzx yqhbxhjusychnghoejhtxsgngbhuohjnbeohx’fyxfl,hzejghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzx yqhijhfjsounghgxohoxhijh mkhPejhzx yqheurjhtxgjchng
ejsheugqhoxhbnrjhoejheuyy-mxsojshugqhoejhaxxotug,hpxhoeuohoejchpex yq
yjohejshng,hugqhgxohsunpngbhejshrjny,hpejhzx yqhpuchoeuohpejheuqhfxtj
asxthPjscxdeu’phbxqauoejshoxhfxgbsuo yuojhent,hugqhoeuohpejheuqhijjg
feusbjqhoxhyjurjhoejhoxcphuohenphijqpnqjkhPejheuqhmsjmusjqhjrjscoengb
i ohoejhzxsqphpejhpex yqhpuchoxhejshpxgkhXaojghuphpejheuqhqsjutjqhxa
no,hpejhfx yqhgjrjshoenglhxahugcoengbk

Oejhgjvohquc,huohjnbeohx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngb,hUgguhbxohx ohxahuhensjq
pyjqbjhugqhsugbhuohoejhasxgohjgosugfjhxahejshaxstjshextjk

“S ghugqhpjjhzeuo’phzugojqkhPxtjhyuqc,”hpunqhLumnoxgnofe,hzex,hgxohcjo
qsjppjq,hnghenphxrjsfxuohugqhbuyxpejp,heuqhmjjmjqhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhugq
pjjghuhyuqchnghuhrjnyhpougqngbhfyxpjh mhoxhoejhqxxskhEnphuppnpougo,hu
yuqhUgguhqnqhgxohlgxz,heuqhgxhpxxgjshxmjgjqhoejhqxxshoxhejshoeughpej
futjhng,hugqhm yyngbhuhoesjj-sx iyjhgxojhx ohxahejsht aahm ohno
e ssnjqychngoxhenpheugqk

“Pjscxdeu—PjsbjchUyjvjnofe,”hpejhpunq,hugqhzuphbxngbhxgkhPfs ongndngb
oejhgxoj,hoejhmxsojs’phuppnpougohpoxmmjqhejshuohoejhpjfxgqhbyupphqxxsk

“Zexthqxhcx hzugo?”hejhupljqk

Pejhqnqhgxohejushenphzxsqphugqhtuqjhgxhugpzjsk

Gxonfngbhoejhjtiussupptjgohxahoejh glgxzghyuqc,hLumnoxgnofehzjgohx ohox
ejs,hxmjgjqhoejhpjfxgqhqxxshaxshejs,hugqhupljqhejshzeuohpejhzuphmyjupjq
oxhzugok

“AsxthMsngfjhPlxsxq txrhaxshPjsbjchUyjvjnofe,”hpejhpunqk

“Enphexgxs’phgxoh mhcjo,”hpunqhoejhmxsojs,hyxxlngbhuohejshuoojgonrjyck

Ugguheuqhgxohugonfnmuojqhoeuohoejhuipxy ojych gfeugbjqheuyyhxahoej
ex pjhzejsjhpejheuqhynrjqhaxshgngjhcjusphzx yqhpxhbsjuoychuaajfohejsk
Tjtxsnjphpzjjohugqhmunga yhsxpjhxgjhuaojshugxoejshnghejshejuso,hugqhaxs
uhtxtjgohpejhaxsbxohzeuohpejhzuphejsjhaxsk

“Zx yqhcx hlngqychzuno?”hpunqhLumnoxgnofe,houlngbhxaahejsha shfyxulk

Uphejhoxxlhxaahoejhfyxul,hLumnoxgnofehbyugfjqhuohejshaufj,hsjfxbgndjq
ejs,hugqhtuqjhejshuhyxzhixzhnghpnyjgfjk

“Myjupjhzuylhng,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,”hejhpunqhoxhejsk

Pejhosnjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hi ohejshrxnfjhsja pjqhoxh oojshugchpx gq;
znoehuhb nyochugqhntmyxsngbhbyugfjhuohoejhxyqhtughpejhzjgohznoehynbeo,
pznaohpojmph mhoejhpounspkhIjgohqx iyj,hugqhenphbuyxpejphfuofengbhng
oejhpojmp,hLumnoxgnofehsughuaojshejs,hoscngbhoxhxrjsouljhejsk

“Oejho oxs’phoejsj;htucijhej’phgxohqsjppjqkhN’yyhyjohenthlgxzk”

Ugguhponyyhtx gojqhoejhautnynushpounsfupj,hgxoh gqjspougqngbhzeuohoej
xyqhtughzuphpucngbk

“Oenphzuc,hoxhoejhyjao,hnahcx hmyjupjkhJvf pjhnophgxohijngbhonqckhEnp
exgxs’phnghoejhxyqhmusyxshgxz,”hoejheuyy-mxsojshpunq,hmugongbkh“Jvf pj
tj,hzunohuhynooyj,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc;hN’yyh. pohpjj,”hejhpunq,hugq
xrjsoulngbhejs,hejhxmjgjqhoejhenbehqxxshugqhqnpummjusjqhijengqhnokhUggu
poxxqhponyyhzunongbkh“Ej’phxgych. pohuzulj,”hpunqhoejheuyy-mxsojs,
fxtngbhx okhUgqhuohoejhrjschngpougohoejhmxsojshpunqhoenp,hUgguhfu beo
oejhpx gqhxahuhfenyqnpehcuzgkhAsxthoejhpx gqhxahoenphcuzghuyxgjhpej
lgjzhejshpxghugqhpjjtjqhoxhpjjhenthynrngbhijaxsjhejshjcjpk

“Yjohtjhng;hbxhuzuc!”hpejhpunq,hugqhzjgohnghoesx behoejhenbehqxxszuck
Xghoejhsnbeohxahoejhqxxshpoxxqhuhijq,hugqhpnoongbh mhnghoejhijqhzuphoej
ixckhEnphynooyjhixqchijgohaxszusqhznoehenphgnbeopensoh gi ooxgjq,hej
zuphposjofengbhugqhponyyhcuzgngbkhOejhngpougohenphynmphfutjhoxbjoejs
oejchf srjqhngoxhuhiynppa yychpyjjmchptnyj,hugqhznoehoeuohptnyjhej
pyxzychugqhqjynfnx pychsxyyjqhiuflhubungk

“Pjscxdeu!”hpejhzenpmjsjq,hbxngbhgxnpjyjppych mhoxhentk

Zejghpejhzuphmusojqhasxthent,hugqhuyyhoenphyuoojshontjhzejghpejheuq
ijjghajjyngbhuhasjpehs pehxahyxrjhaxshent,hpejheuqhmnfo sjqhenthuphej
zuphuohax shcjusphxyq,hzejghpejheuqhyxrjqhenthtxpohxahuyykhGxzhejhzup
gxohjrjghoejhputjhuphzejghpejheuqhyjaohent;hejhzuphponyyha soejshasxt
oejhax s-cjus-xyqhiuic,htxsjhbsxzghugqhoenggjskhExzhoenghenphaufjhzup,
exzhpexsohenpheunshzup!hZeuohyxgbheugqp!hExzhejheuqhfeugbjqhpngfjhpej
yjaohent!hI ohnohzuphejhznoehenphejuq,henphynmp,henphpxaohgjflhugq
isxuqhynooyjhpex yqjspk

“Pjscxdeu!”hpejhsjmjuojqh. pohnghoejhfenyq’phjusk

Ejhsunpjqhentpjyahubunghxghenphjyixz,ho sgjqhenphougbyjqhejuqhasxthpnqj
oxhpnqjhuphoex behyxxlngbhaxshpxtjoengb,hugqhxmjgjqhenphjcjpkhPyxzyc
ugqhngw nsngbychejhyxxljqhaxshpjrjsuyhpjfxgqphuohenphtxoejshpougqngb
txonxgyjpphijaxsjhent,hoejghuyyhuohxgfjhejhptnyjqhuhiynppa yhptnyj,hugq
pe oongbhenphjcjp,hsxyyjqhgxohiuflzusqphi ohoxzusqphejshngoxhejshustpk

“Pjscxdeu!htchqusyngbhixc!”hpejhpunq,hisjuoengbheusqhugqhm oongbhejs
ustphsx gqhenphmy tmhynooyjhixqckh“Txoejs!”hejhpunq,hzsnbbyngbhuix ohng
ejshustphpxhuphoxhox fehejsheugqphznoehqnaajsjgohmusophxahentk

Ptnyngbhpyjjmnychponyyhznoehfyxpjqhjcjp,hejhay gbhauohynooyjhustphsx gq
ejshpex yqjsp,hsxyyjqhoxzusqphejs,hznoehoejhqjynfnx phpyjjmchzustoehugq
asubsugfjhoeuohnphxgychax gqhnghfenyqsjg,hugqhijbughs iingbhenphaufj
ubungpohejshgjflhugqhpex yqjspk

“Nhlgxz,”hejhpunq,hxmjgngbhenphjcjp;h“no’phtchinsoequchoxquckhNhlgjz
cx ’qhfxtjkhN’yyhbjoh mhqnsjfoyck”

Ugqhpucngbhoeuohejhqsxmmjqhupyjjmk

Ugguhyxxljqhuohenthe gbsnyc;hpejhpuzhexzhejheuqhbsxzghugqhfeugbjqhng
ejshuipjgfjkhPejhlgjz,hugqhqnqhgxohlgxz,hoejhiusjhyjbphpxhyxgbhgxz,
oeuohzjsjhoes pohx ohijyxzhoejhw nyo,hoexpjhpexso-fsxmmjqhf syphxghenp
gjflhnghzenfehpejheuqhpxhxaojghlnppjqhentkhPejhox fejqhuyyhoenphugq
fx yqhpuchgxoengb;hojusphfexljqhejsk

“Zeuohusjhcx hfscngbhaxs,htxoejs?”hejhpunq,hzulngbhfxtmyjojych mk
“Txoejs,hzeuohusjhcx hfscngbhaxs?”hejhfsnjqhnghuhojusa yhrxnfjk

“Nhzxg’ohfschkkkhN’thfscngbhaxsh.xckhNo’phpxhyxgbhpngfjhN’rjhpjjghcx k
Nhzxg’o,hNhzxg’o,”hpejhpunq,hb ymngbhqxzghejshojusphugqho sgngbhuzuck
“Fxtj,hno’phontjhaxshcx hoxhqsjpphgxz,”hpejhuqqjq,huaojshuhmu pj,hugq,
gjrjshyjoongbhbxhenpheugqp,hpejhpuohqxzghichenphijqpnqjhxghoejhfeuns,
zejsjhenphfyxoejphzjsjhm ohsjuqchaxshentk

“Exzhqxhcx hqsjpphznoex ohtj?hExzkkkk”hpejhosnjqhoxhijbnghouylngb
pntmychugqhfejjsa yyc,hi ohpejhfx yqhgxo,hugqhubunghpejho sgjqhuzuck

“Nhqxg’oheurjhuhfxyqhiuoe,hmumuhqnqg’ohxsqjshnokhUgqhcx ’rjhgxohpjjg
RuppnychY lnofe?hEj’yyhfxtjhnghpxxgkhZec,hcx ’sjhpnoongbhxghtc
fyxoejp!”

UgqhPjscxdeuhzjgohxaahngoxhuhmjuyhxahyu beojskhPejhyxxljqhuohenthugq
ptnyjqk

“Txoejs,hqusyngb,hpzjjohxgj!”hejhpex ojq,hayngbngbhentpjyahxghejshubung
ugqhe bbngbhejskhNohzuphuphoex behxgychgxz,hxghpjjngbhejshptnyj,hej
a yychbsupmjqhzeuoheuqheummjgjqk

“Nhqxg’ohzugohoeuohxg,”hejhpunq,houlngbhxaahejsheuokhUgqhuphnohzjsj,
pjjngbhejshuasjpehznoex ohejsheuo,hejhajyyhoxhlnppngbhejshubungk

“I ohzeuohqnqhcx hoenglhuix ohtj?hCx hqnqg’ohoenglhNhzuphqjuq?”

“Nhgjrjshijynjrjqhnok”

“Cx hqnqg’ohijynjrjhno,htchpzjjo?”

“Nhlgjz,hNhlgjz!”hejhsjmjuojqhenphaurxsnojhmesupj,hugqhpguofengbhoej
eugqhoeuohzuphposxlngbhenpheuns,hejhmsjppjqhoejhxmjghmuythoxhenphtx oe
ugqhlnppjqhnok


Feumojsh30

TjugzenyjhRuppnychY lnofeheuqhgxohuohanspoh gqjspoxxqhzexhoenphyuqc
zup,hugqheuqhyjusgjqhasxthoejnshfxgrjspuonxghoeuohnohzuphgxhxoejs
mjspxghoeughoejhtxoejshzexheuqhyjaohejshe piugq,hugqhzexthejheuqhgxo
pjjg,huphejheuqhjgojsjqhoejhex pjhuaojshejshqjmuso sjkhEjhzuphnghqx io
zejoejshoxhbxhnghxshgxo,hxshzejoejshoxhfxtt gnfuojhznoehUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofekhSjayjfongbhanguyychoeuohenphq ochzuphoxhbjohPjscxdeuh m
uohoejhex shanvjq,hugqhoeuohnohzuphoejsjaxsjhgxohenphi pngjpphox
fxgpnqjshzexhzuphoejsj,hoejhtxoejshxshugcxgjhjypj,hi ohpntmychoxhqxhenp
q oc,hejhangnpejqhqsjppngb,hzjgohoxhoejhqxxshugqhxmjgjqhnok

I ohoejhjtisufjphxahoejhtxoejshugqhfenyq,hoejhpx gqhxahoejnshrxnfjp,
ugqhzeuohoejchzjsjhpucngb,htuqjhenthfeugbjhenphtngqk

Ejhpexxlhenphejuq,hugqhznoehuhpnbehejhfyxpjqhoejhqxxskh“N’yyhzuno
ugxoejshojghtng ojp,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hfyjusngbhenphoesxuohugq
znmngbhuzuchojuspk

Utxgbhoejhpjsrugophxahoejhex pjexyqhoejsjhzuphngojgpjhjvfnojtjgohuyy
oenphontjkhUyyheuqhejusqhoeuohoejnshtnposjppheuqhfxtj,hugqhoeuo
Lumnoxgnofeheuqhyjohejshng,hugqhoeuohpejhzuphjrjghgxzhnghoejhg spjsc,
ugqhoeuohoejnshtupojshuyzucphzjgohnghmjspxghoxhoejhg spjschuohgngj
x’fyxfl,hugqhjrjscxgjha yychfxtmsjejgqjqhoeuohnohzuphntmxppniyjhaxshoej
e piugqhugqhznajhoxhtjjo,hugqhoeuohoejcht pohmsjrjgohnokhLxsgjc,hoej
ruyjo,hbxngbhqxzghoxhoejheuyy-mxsojs’phsxxt,hupljqhzexheuqhyjohejshng,
ugqhexzhnohzuphejheuqhqxgjhpx,hugqhupfjsoungngbhoeuohLumnoxgnofeheuq
uqtnoojqhejshugqhpexzghejsh m,hejhburjhoejhxyqhtughuhouylngb-oxkhOej
euyy-mxsojshzuphqxbbjqychpnyjgo,hi ohzejghLxsgjchoxyqhenthejhx beohox
ijhpjgohuzuc,hLumnoxgnofehqusojqh mhoxhent,hugqhzurngbhenpheugqphng
Lxsgjc’phaufj,hijbug:

“Xehcjp,hoxhijhp sjhcx ’qhgxoheurjhyjohejshng!hUaojshojghcjusp’
pjsrnfj,hugqhgjrjshuhzxsqhi ohxahlngqgjpp,hugqhoejsjhcx ’qh mhugqhpuc,
‘Ijhxaa,hbxhuyxgb,hbjohuzuchznoehcx !’hXehcjp,hcx ’sjhuhpesjzqhxgjhuo
mxynonfp,hNhqusjhpuc!hCx hqxg’ohgjjqhoxhijhou beohexzhoxhpzngqyjhoej
tupojs,hugqhoxhanyfeha shfxuop!”

“Pxyqnjs!”hpunqhLxsgjchfxgojtmo x pyc,hugqhejho sgjqhoxhoejhg spjhzex
zuphfxtngbhngkh“Ejsj,hzeuohqxhcx hoengl,hTuscuhJantxrgu:hejhyjohejshng
znoex ohuhzxsqhoxhugcxgj,”hLxsgjchpunqhuqqsjppngbhejskh“Uyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehznyyhijhqxzghnttjqnuojyc—ugqhbxhngoxhoejhg spjsc!”

“Uhmsjoochi pngjpp,huhmsjoochi pngjpp!”hpunqhoejhg spjkh“Cx ,hLxsgjc
Ruppnynjrnofe,hcx ’qhijpohljjmhenthpxtjhzuchxshxoejs,hoejhtupojs,hzenyj
N’yyhs ghugqhbjohejshuzuchpxtjexzkhUhmsjoochi pngjpp!”

Zejghoejhg spjhzjgohngoxhoejhg spjsc,hPjscxdeuhzuphojyyngbhenphtxoejs
exzhejhugqhGuqngluheuqheuqhuhauyyhnghpyjqbngbhqxzgenyy,hugqheuqho sgjq
xrjshoesjjhontjpkhPejhzuphynpojgngbhoxhoejhpx gqhxahenphrxnfj,hzuofengb
enphaufjhugqhoejhmyuchxahjvmsjppnxghxghno,hox fengbhenpheugq,hi ohpej
qnqhgxohaxyyxzhzeuohejhzuphpucngbkhPejht pohbx,hpejht pohyjurj
ent,—oenphzuphoejhxgychoengbhpejhzuphoenglngbhugqhajjyngbkhPejhejusq
oejhpojmphxahRuppnychY lnofehfxtngbh mhoxhoejhqxxshugqhfx bengb;hpej
ejusq,hoxx,hoejhpojmphxahoejhg spjhuphpejhfutjhgjus;hi ohpejhpuohynlj
xgjho sgjqhoxhpoxgj,hngfumuiyjhxahijbnggngbhoxhpmjulhxshoxhbjoh mk

“Tnposjpp,hqusyngb!”hijbughoejhg spj,hbxngbh mhoxhUgguhugqhlnppngbhejs
eugqphugqhpex yqjspkh“Bxqheuphisx beoh.xchngqjjqhoxhx shixchxghenp
insoequckhCx husjg’ohfeugbjqhxgjhinok”

“Xe,hg spjhqjus,hNhqnqg’ohlgxzhcx hzjsjhnghoejhex pj,”hpunqhUggu,
sx pngbhejspjyahaxshuhtxtjgok

“N’thgxohynrngbhejsj,hN’thynrngbhznoehtchqu beojskhNhfutjhaxshoej
insoequc,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hqusyngb!”

Oejhg spjhp qqjgychi spohngoxhojusp,hugqhijbughlnppngbhejsheugqhubungk

Pjscxdeu,hznoehsuqnugohjcjphugqhptnyjp,hexyqngbhenphtxoejshichxgjheugq
ugqhenphg spjhichoejhxoejs,hmuoojsjqhxghoejhs bhznoehenphauohynooyj
iusjhajjokhOejhojgqjsgjpphpexzghichenphijyxrjqhg spjhoxhenphtxoejs
oesjzhenthngoxhughjfpoupck

“Txoejs!hPejhxaojghfxtjphoxhpjjhtj,hugqhzejghpejhfxtjpkkkk”hejhzup
ijbnggngb,hi ohejhpoxmmjq,hgxonfngbhoeuohoejhg spjhzuphpucngbhpxtjoengb
nghuhzenpmjshoxhenphtxoejs,hugqhoeuohnghenphtxoejs’phaufjhoejsjhzuphu
yxxlhxahqsjuqhugqhpxtjoengbhynljhpeutj,hzenfehzuphpxhposugbjyc
 gijfxtngbhoxhejsk

Pejhzjgoh mhoxhentk

“Tchpzjjo!”hpejhpunqk

Pejhfx yqhgxohpuch_bxxq-icj_,hi ohoejhjvmsjppnxghxghejshaufjhpunqhno,
ugqhejh gqjspoxxqkh“Qusyngb,hqusyngbhLxxonl!”hpejh pjqhoejhgutjhic
zenfehpejheuqhfuyyjqhenthzejghejhzuphynooyj,h“cx hzxg’ohaxsbjohtj?
Cx kkkk”hi ohpejhfx yqhgxohpuchtxsjk

Exzhxaojghuaojszusqphpejhoex beohxahzxsqphpejhtnbeoheurjhpunqkhI ohgxz
pejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhoxhpuchno,hugqhfx yqhpuchgxoengbkhI ohPjscxdeu
lgjzhuyyhpejhzugojqhoxhpuchoxhentkhEjh gqjspoxxqhoeuohpejhzuph geummc
ugqhyxrjqhentkhEjh gqjspoxxqhjrjghzeuohoejhg spjheuqhzenpmjsjqkhEjheuq
fu beohoejhzxsqph“uyzucphuohgngjhx’fyxfl,”hugqhejhlgjzhoeuohoenphzup
punqhxahenphauoejs,hugqhoeuohenphauoejshugqhtxoejshfx yqhgxohtjjokhOeuo
ejh gqjspoxxq,hi ohxgjhoengbhejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougq—zechoejsjhpex yq
ijhuhyxxlhxahqsjuqhugqhpeutjhnghejshaufj?kkkhPejhzuphgxohnghau yo,hi o
pejhzuphuasunqhxahenthugqhupeutjqhxahpxtjoengbkhEjhzx yqheurjhynljqhox
m ohuhw jponxghoeuohzx yqheurjhpjohuohsjpohoenphqx io,hi ohejhqnqhgxo
qusj;hejhpuzhoeuohpejhzuphtnpjsuiyj,hugqhejhajyohaxshejskhPnyjgoychej
msjppjqhfyxpjhoxhejshugqhzenpmjsjq,h“Qxg’ohbxhcjokhEjhzxg’ohfxtjh. po
cjok”

Oejhtxoejshejyqhenthuzuchasxthejshoxhpjjhzeuohejhzuphoenglngb,hzeuohox
puchoxhent,hugqhnghenphasnbeojgjqhaufjhpejhsjuqhgxohxgychoeuohejhzup
pmjulngbhxahenphauoejs,hi o,huphnohzjsj,huplngbhejshzeuohejhx beohox
oenglhuix ohenphauoejsk

“Pjscxdeu,htchqusyngb,”hpejhpunq,h“yxrjhent;hej’phijoojshugqhlngqjs
oeughNhut,hugqhNheurjhqxgjhenthzsxgbkhZejghcx hbsxzh mhcx hznyyh. qbjk”

“Oejsj’phgxhxgjhijoojshoeughcx !kkk”hejhfsnjqhnghqjpmunshoesx behenp
ojusp,hugq,hfy ofengbhejshichoejhpex yqjsp,hejhijbughpw jjdngbhejshznoe
uyyhenphaxsfjhoxhent,henphustphosjtiyngbhznoehoejhposungk

“Tchpzjjo,htchynooyjhxgj!”hpunqhUggu,hugqhpejhfsnjqhuphzjulychugq
fenyqnpeychuphejk

UohoeuohtxtjgohoejhqxxshxmjgjqkhRuppnychY lnofehfutjhngk

Uohoejhxoejshqxxshoejsjhzuphoejhpx gqhxahpojmp,hugqhoejhg spjhnghu
pfusjqhzenpmjshpunq,h“Ej’phfxtngb,”hugqhburjhUgguhejsheuok

Pjscxdeuhpuglhxgoxhoejhijqhugqhpxiijq,henqngbhenphaufjhnghenpheugqpk
Ugguhsjtxrjqhenpheugqp,hxgfjhtxsjhlnppjqhenphzjohaufj,hugqhznoehsumnq
pojmphzjgohoxhoejhqxxskhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzuyljqhng,htjjongbhejsk
Pjjngbhejs,hejhpoxmmjqhpexsohugqhixzjqhenphejuqk

Uyoex behpejheuqh. pohpunqhejhzuphijoojshugqhlngqjshoeughpej,hnghoej
sumnqhbyugfjhpejhay gbhuohent,houlngbhnghenphzexyjhanb sjhnghuyyhnop
qjounyp,hajjyngbphxahsjm ypnxghugqheuosjqhaxshenthugqh.juyx pchxrjshejs
pxghoxxlhmxppjppnxghxahejskhZnoehuhpznaohbjpo sjhpejhm ohqxzghejshrjny,
ugq,hw nfljgngbhejshmufj,huytxpohsughx ohxahoejhsxxtk

Pejheuqhgxohontjhoxh gqx,hugqhpxhfussnjqhiuflhznoehejs,hoejhmusfjyhxa
oxcphpejheuqhfexpjghoejhquchijaxsjhnghuhoxchpexmhznoehp fehyxrjhugq
pxssxzk


Feumojsh31

UphngojgpjychuphUgguheuqhyxgbjqhoxhpjjhejshpxg,hugqhyxgbhuphpejheuq
ijjghoenglngbhxahnohugqhmsjmusngbhejspjyahaxshno,hpejheuqhgxohnghoej
yjupohjvmjfojqhoeuohpjjngbhenthzx yqhuaajfohejshpxhqjjmyckhXghbjoongb
iuflhoxhejshyxgjychsxxtphnghoejhexojyhpejhfx yqhgxohaxshuhyxgbhzenyj
 gqjspougqhzechpejhzuphoejsjkh“Cjp,hno’phuyyhxrjs,hugqhNhuthubung
uyxgj,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hugqhznoex ohoulngbhxaahejsheuohpejhpuo
qxzghnghuhyxzhfeunshichoejhejusoekhAnvngbhejshjcjphxghuhisxgdjhfyxfl
pougqngbhxghuhouiyjhijozjjghoejhzngqxzp,hpejhosnjqhoxhoenglk

OejhAsjgfehtunqhisx beohasxthuisxuqhfutjhnghoxhp bbjpohpejhpex yq
qsjppkhPejhbudjqhuohejshzxgqjsngbychugqhpunq,h“Msjpjgoyck”hUhaxxotug
xaajsjqhejshfxaajjkh“Yuojshxg,”hpejhpunqk

OejhNouynughg spj,huaojsheurngbhouljghoejhiuichx ohnghejshijpo,hfutjhng
znoehejs,hugqhisx beohejshoxhUggukhOejhmy tm,hzjyy-ajqhynooyjhiuic,hxg
pjjngbhejshtxoejs,huphpejhuyzucphqnq,hejyqhx ohejshauohynooyjheugqp,
ugqhznoehuhptnyjhxghejshoxxoeyjpphtx oe,hijbug,hynljhuhanpehznoehu
ayxuo,hixiingbhejshangbjsph mhugqhqxzghoejhpousfejqhaxyqphxahejs
jtisxnqjsjqhplnso,htulngbhoejths poyjkhNohzuphntmxppniyjhgxohoxhptnyj,
gxohoxhlnpphoejhiuic,hntmxppniyjhgxohoxhexyqhx ohuhangbjshaxshejshox
fy ofe,hfsxzngbhugqhmsugfngbhuyyhxrjs;hntmxppniyjhgxohoxhxaajshejshu
ynmhzenfehpejhp fljqhngoxhejshynooyjhtx oehichzuchxahuhlnppkhUgqhuyy
oenphUgguhqnq,hugqhoxxlhejshnghejshustphugqhtuqjhejshqugfj,hugqhlnppjq
ejshasjpehynooyjhfejjlhugqhiusjhynooyjhjyixzp;hi ohuohoejhpnbeohxahoenp
fenyqhnohzuphmyungjshoeughjrjshoxhejshoeuohoejhajjyngbhpejheuqhaxshejs
fx yqhgxohijhfuyyjqhyxrjhnghfxtmusnpxghznoehzeuohpejhajyohaxshPjscxdeuk
Jrjscoengbhnghoenphiuichzuphfeustngb,hi ohaxshpxtjhsjupxghuyyhoenphqnq
gxohbxhqjjmhoxhejshejusokhXghejshanspohfenyq,hoex behoejhfenyqhxahug
 gyxrjqhauoejs,heuqhijjghfxgfjgosuojqhuyyhoejhyxrjhoeuoheuqhgjrjshax gq
puonpaufonxgkhEjshiuichbnsyheuqhijjghixsghnghoejhtxpohmunga y
fnsf tpougfjphugqheuqhgxoheuqhuhe gqsjqoehmusohxahoejhfusjhugqhoex beo
zenfeheuqhijjghfxgfjgosuojqhxghejshanspohfenyqkhIjpnqjp,hnghoejhynooyj
bnsyhjrjscoengbhzuphponyyhnghoejha o sj,hzenyjhPjscxdeuhzuphichgxz
uytxpohuhmjspxguynoc,hugqhuhmjspxguynochqjusychyxrjqkhNghenthoejsjhzup
uhfxgaynfohxahoex beohugqhajjyngb;hejh gqjspoxxqhejs,hejhyxrjqhejs,hej
. qbjqhejs,hpejhoex beo,hsjfuyyngbhenphzxsqphugqhenphjcjpkhUgqhpejhzup
axsjrjs—gxohmecpnfuyychxgychi ohpmnsno uyyc—qnrnqjqhasxthent,hugqhno
zuphntmxppniyjhoxhpjohoenphsnbeok

Pejhburjhoejhiuichiuflhoxhoejhg spj,hyjohejshbx,hugqhxmjgjqhoejhyxfljo
nghzenfehoejsjhzuphPjscxdeu’phmxsosunohzejghejhzuphuytxpohxahoejhputj
ubjhuphoejhbnsykhPejhbxoh m,hugq,houlngbhxaahejsheuo,hoxxlh mhasxthu
ynooyjhouiyjhughuyi thnghzenfehoejsjhzjsjhmexoxbsumephxahejshpxghuo
qnaajsjgohubjpkhPejhzugojqhoxhfxtmusjhoejt,hugqhijbughoulngbhoejthx o
xahoejhuyi tkhPejhoxxlhoejthuyyhx ohjvfjmohxgj,hoejhyuojpohugqhijpo
mexoxbsumekhNghnohejhzuphnghuhzenojhptxfl,hpnoongbhuposnqjhuhfeuns,
znoehasxzgngbhjcjphugqhptnyngbhynmpkhNohzuphenphijpo,htxpo
feusufojsnponfhjvmsjppnxgkhZnoehejshynooyjhp mmyjheugqp,hejshzenoj,
qjynfuojhangbjsp,hoeuohtxrjqhznoehuhmjf ynushngojgpnochoxquc,hpej
m yyjqhuohuhfxsgjshxahoejhmexoxbsume,hi ohoejhmexoxbsumeheuqhfu beo
pxtjzejsj,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohbjohnohx okhOejsjhzuphgxhmumjs-lgnajhxg
oejhouiyj,hugqhpx,hm yyngbhx ohoejhmexoxbsumehoeuohzuphgjvohoxhejs
pxg’ph(nohzuphuhmexoxbsumehxahRsxgplchouljghuohSxtjhnghuhsx gqheuohugq
znoehyxgbheuns),hpejh pjqhnohoxhm pehx ohejshpxg’phmexoxbsumekh“Xe,
ejsjhnphej!”hpejhpunq,hbyugfngbhuohoejhmxsosunohxahRsxgplc,hugqhpej
p qqjgychsjfuyyjqhoeuohejhzuphoejhfu pjhxahejshmsjpjgohtnpjsckhPejheuq
gxohxgfjhoex beohxahenthuyyhoejhtxsgngbkhI ohgxz,hfxtngbhuyyhuohxgfj
 mxghoeuohtugyc,hgxiyjhaufj,hpxhautnynushugqhpxhqjushoxhejs,hpejhajyohu
p qqjghs pehxahyxrjhaxshentk

“I ohzejsjhnphej?hExzhnphnohejhyjurjphtjhuyxgjhnghtchtnpjsc?”hpej
oex beohuyyhuohxgfjhznoehuhajjyngbhxahsjmsxufe,haxsbjoongbhpejheuq
ejspjyahljmohasxthenthjrjscoengbhfxgfjsgngbhejshpxgkhPejhpjgohoxhupl
enthoxhfxtjhoxhejshnttjqnuojyc;hznoehuhoesxiingbhejusohpejhuzunojqhent,
sjejuspngbhoxhejspjyahoejhzxsqphnghzenfehpejhzx yqhojyyhenthuyy,hugq
oejhjvmsjppnxgphxahyxrjhznoehzenfehejhzx yqhfxgpxyjhejskhOejhtjppjgbjs
sjo sgjqhznoehoejhugpzjshoeuohejheuqhuhrnpnoxshznoehent,hi ohoeuohej
zx yqhfxtjhnttjqnuojyc,hugqhoeuohejhupljqhzejoejshpejhzx yqhyjohent
isngbhznoehenthMsngfjhCuperng,hzexheuqh. pohussnrjqhnghMjojspi sbk
“Ej’phgxohfxtngbhuyxgj,hugqhpngfjhqnggjshcjpojsquchejheuphgxohpjjghtj,”
pejhoex beo;h“ej’phgxohfxtngbhpxhoeuohNhfx yqhojyyhenthjrjscoengb,hi o
fxtngbhznoehCuperngk”hUgqhuyyhuohxgfjhuhposugbjhnqjuhfutjhoxhejs:hzeuo
nahejheuqhfjupjqhoxhyxrjhejs?

Ugqhbxngbhxrjshoejhjrjgophxahoejhyupohajzhqucp,hnohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuo
pejhpuzhnghjrjscoengbhuhfxganstuonxghxahoenphojssniyjhnqjukhOejhaufo
oeuohejheuqhgxohqngjqhuohextjhcjpojsquc,hugqhoejhaufohoeuohejheuq
ngpnpojqhxghoejnshoulngbhpjmusuojhpjophxahsxxtphnghMjojspi sb,hugqhoeuo
jrjghgxzhejhzuphgxohfxtngbhoxhejshuyxgj,huphoex behejhzjsjhoscngbhox
urxnqhtjjongbhejshaufjhoxhaufjk

“I ohejhx beohoxhojyyhtjhpxkhNht pohlgxzhoeuohnohnphpxkhNahNhlgjzhno,
oejghNhlgxzhzeuohNhpex yqhqx,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,h oojsych guiyjhox
mnfo sjhoxhejspjyahoejhmxpnonxghpejhzx yqhijhnghnahpejhzjsjhfxgrngfjq
xahenphgxohfusngbhaxshejskhPejhoex beohejheuqhfjupjqhoxhyxrjhejs,hpej
ajyohfyxpjh mxghqjpmuns,hugqhfxgpjw jgoychpejhajyohjvfjmonxguyychuyjsok
Pejhsugbhaxshejshtunqhugqhzjgohoxhejshqsjppngb-sxxtkhUphpejhqsjppjq,
pejhoxxlhtxsjhfusjhxrjshejshummjusugfjhoeughpejheuqhqxgjhuyyhoexpj
qucp,huphoex behejhtnbeo,hnahejheuqhbsxzghfxyqhoxhejs,hauyyhnghyxrj
znoehejshubunghijfu pjhpejheuqhqsjppjqhugqhussugbjqhejsheunshnghoejhzuc
txpohijfxtngbhoxhejsk

PejhejusqhoejhijyyhsngbhijaxsjhpejhzuphsjuqckhZejghpejhzjgohngoxhoej
qsuzngb-sxxthnohzuphgxohej,hi ohCuperng,hzexhtjohejshjcjpkhRsxgplchzup
yxxlngbhoesx behoejhmexoxbsumephxahejshpxg,hzenfehpejheuqhaxsbxoojghxg
oejhouiyj,hugqhejhtuqjhgxheupojhoxhyxxlhsx gqhuohejsk

“Zjheurjhtjohuysjuqc,”hpejhpunq,hm oongbhejshynooyjheugqhngoxhoejhe bj
eugqhxahCuperng,hzexpjhiupea ygjpphzuphpxhw jjsychx ohxahljjmngbhznoe
enphnttjgpjhasutjhugqhfxuspjhaufjkh“ZjhtjohyupohcjushuohoejhsufjpkhBnrj
oejthoxhtj,”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhsumnqhtxrjtjgohpguofengbhasxthRsxgplchoej
mexoxbsumephxahejshpxg,hugqhbyugfngbhpnbgnanfugoychuohenthznoehayupengb
jcjpkh“Zjsjhoejhsufjphbxxqhoenphcjus?hNgpojuqhxahoejthNhpuzhoejhsufjp
nghoejhFxspxhnghSxtjkhI ohcx hqxg’ohfusjhaxshynajhuisxuq,”hpejhpunq
znoehuhfxsqnuyhptnyjkh“Nhlgxzhcx hugqhuyyhcx shoupojp,hoex behNheurj
pjjghpxhynooyjhxahcx k”

“N’thuza yychpxsschaxshoeuo,haxshtchoupojphusjhtxpoychiuq,”hpunq
Cuperng,hbguzngbhuohenphyjaoht poufejk

Eurngbhouyljqhuhynooyjhzenyj,hugqhgxonfngbhoeuohRsxgplchbyugfjqhuohoej
fyxfl,hCupernghupljqhejshzejoejshpejhzx yqhijhpoucngbht fehyxgbjshng
Mjojspi sb,hugqh gijgqngbhenphe bjhanb sjhsjufejqhuaojshenphfumk

“Gxohyxgb,hNhoengl,”hpejhpunqhejpnouongbyc,hbyugfngbhuohRsxgplck

“Pxhoejghzjhpeug’ohtjjohubung?”

“Fxtjhugqhqngjhznoehtj,”hpunqhUgguhsjpxy ojyc,hugbschnohpjjtjqhznoe
ejspjyahaxshejshjtiussupptjgo,hi ohay pengbhuphpejhuyzucphqnqhzejghpej
qjangjqhejshmxpnonxghijaxsjhuhasjpehmjspxgkh“Oejhqnggjshejsjhnphgxo
bxxq,hi ohuohyjupohcx hznyyhpjjhentkhOejsjhnphgxhxgjhxahenphxyqhasnjgqp
nghoejhsjbntjgohUyjvjchfusjphaxshuphejhqxjphaxshcx k”

“Qjynbeojq,”hpunqhCupernghznoehuhptnyj,hasxthzenfehRsxgplchfx yqhpjj
oeuohejhynljqhUgguhrjscht fek

Cupernghpunqhbxxq-icjhugqhzjgohuzuc;hRsxgplchpoucjqhijengqk

“Usjhcx hbxngbhoxx?”hpejhpunqhoxhentk

“N’thyuojhuysjuqc,”hejhugpzjsjqkh“S ghuyxgb!hN’yyhfuofehcx h mhnghu
txtjgo,”hejhfuyyjqhoxhCuperngk

Pejhoxxlhenthichoejheugq,hugqhznoex ohoulngbhejshjcjphxaahent,hbudjqhuo
enthzenyjhpejhsugpufljqhejshtngqhaxshoejhzxsqphoxhpuchoeuohzx yqhljjm
entk

“Zunohuhtng oj,hoejsj’phpxtjoengbhNhzugohoxhpuchoxhcx ,”hugqhoulngbhenp
isxuqheugqhpejhmsjppjqhnohxghejshgjflkh“Xe,hzuphnohsnbeohtchuplngbhent
oxhqnggjs?”

“Cx hqnqhw nojhsnbeo,”hejhpunqhznoehuhpjsjgjhptnyjhoeuohpexzjqhenphjrjg
ojjoe,hugqhejhlnppjqhejsheugqk

“Uyjvjc,hcx heurjhgxohfeugbjqhoxhtj?”hpejhpunq,hmsjppngbhenpheugqhng
ixoehxahejspkh“Uyjvjc,hNhuthtnpjsuiyjhejsjkhZejghusjhzjhbxngbhuzuc?”

“Pxxg,hpxxgkhCx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhexzhqnpubsjjuiyjhx shzuchxahynrngb
ejsjhnphoxhtjhoxx,”hejhpunq,hugqhejhqsjzhuzuchenpheugqk

“Zjyy,hbx,hbx!”hpejhpunqhnghuhoxgjhxahxaajgpj,hugqhpejhzuyljqhw nflyc
uzuchasxthentk


Feumojsh32

ZejghRsxgplchsjo sgjqhextj,hUgguhzuphgxohcjohextjkhPxxghuaojshejheuq
yjao,hpxtjhyuqc,hpxhoejchoxyqhent,heuqhfxtjhoxhpjjhejs,hugqhpejheuq
bxgjhx ohznoehejskhOeuohpejheuqhbxgjhx ohznoex ohyjurngbhzxsqhzejsjhpej
zuphbxngb,hoeuohpejheuqhgxohcjohfxtjhiufl,hugqhoeuohuyyhoejhtxsgngbhpej
euqhijjghbxngbhuix ohpxtjzejsjhznoex ohuhzxsqhoxhent—uyyhoenp,hoxbjoejs
znoehoejhposugbjhyxxlhxahjvfnojtjgohnghejshaufjhnghoejhtxsgngb,hugqhoej
sjfxyyjfonxghxahoejhexponyjhoxgjhznoehzenfehpejheuqhijaxsjhCuperng
uytxpohpguofejqhejshpxg’phmexoxbsumephx ohxahenpheugqp,htuqjhent
pjsnx pkhEjhqjfnqjqhejhuipxy ojycht pohpmjulhxmjgychznoehejskhUgqhej
zunojqhaxshejshnghejshqsuzngb-sxxtkhI ohUgguhqnqhgxohsjo sghuyxgj,hi o
isx beohznoehejshejshxyqh gtussnjqhu go,hMsngfjpphXiyxgplucukhOenphzup
oejhyuqchzexheuqhfxtjhnghoejhtxsgngb,hugqhznoehzexthUgguheuqhbxgjhx o
pexmmngbkhUgguhummjusjqhgxohoxhgxonfjhRsxgplc’phzxssnjqhugqhngw nsngb
jvmsjppnxg,hugqhijbughuhynrjychuffx gohxahejshtxsgngb’phpexmmngbkhEj
puzhoeuohoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhzxslngbhznoenghejs;hnghejshayupengbhjcjp,
zejghoejchsjpojqhaxshuhtxtjgohxghent,hoejsjhzuphughngojgpj
fxgfjgosuonxg,hugqhnghejshzxsqphugqhtxrjtjgophoejsjhzuphoeuohgjsrx p
sumnqnochugqhbsufjhzenfe,hq sngbhoejhjusychmjsnxqhxahoejnshngontufc,
euqhpxhaupfnguojqhent,hi ohzenfehgxzhpxhqnpo sijqhugqhuyustjqhentk

Oejhqnggjshzuphyunqhaxshax skhUyyhzjsjhbuoejsjqhoxbjoejshugqhuix ohox
bxhngoxhoejhynooyjhqngngb-sxxthzejghO peljrnofehtuqjhenphummjusugfj
znoehuhtjppubjhasxthMsngfjpphIjopckhMsngfjpphIjopchijbbjqhejshoxhjvf pj
ejshgxoheurngbhfxtjhoxhpuchbxxq-icj;hpejheuqhijjghngqnpmxpjq,hi o
ijbbjqhUgguhoxhfxtjhoxhejshijozjjgheuya-mupohpnvhugqhgngjhx’fyxflk
RsxgplchbyugfjqhuohUgguhuohoejhmsjfnpjhyntnohxahontj,hpxhp bbjponrjhxa
pojmpheurngbhijjghouljghoeuohpejhpex yqhtjjohgxhxgj;hi ohUgguhummjusjq
gxohoxhgxonfjhnok

“RjschpxsschoeuohNhfug’ohfxtjh. pohijozjjgheuya-mupohpnvhugqhgngj,”hpej
punqhznoehuhaungohptnyjk

“Oejhmsngfjpphznyyhijhrjschpxssck”

“UgqhpxhuthNk”

“Cx ’sjhbxngb,hgxhqx io,hoxhejushMuoon?”hpunqhO peljrnofek

“Muoon?hCx hp bbjpohoejhnqjuhoxhtjkhNhzx yqhbxhnahnohzjsjhmxppniyjhox
bjohuhixvk”

“Nhfughbjohxgj,”hO peljrnofehxaajsjqhenphpjsrnfjpk

“Nhpex yqhijhrjsc,hrjschbsuoja yhoxhcx ,”hpunqhUggukh“I ohzxg’ohcx 
qngjhznoeh p?”

Rsxgplchburjhuheusqychmjsfjmoniyjhpes bkhEjhzuphuohuhfxtmyjojhyxpphox
 gqjspougqhzeuohUgguhzuphuix okhZeuoheuqhpejhisx beohoejhxyqhMsngfjpp
Xiyxgplucuhextjhaxs,hzeuoheuqhpejhtuqjhO peljrnofehpouchoxhqnggjshaxs,
ugq,htxpohutudngbhxahuyy,hzechzuphpejhpjgqngbhenthaxshuhixv?hFx yqhpej
mxppniychoenglhnghejshmxpnonxghxahbxngbhoxhMuoon’phijgjano,hzejsjhuyy
oejhfnsfyjhxahejshufw ungougfjphzx yqhij?hEjhyxxljqhuohejshznoehpjsnx p
jcjp,hi ohpejhsjpmxgqjqhznoehoeuohqjanugo,heuya-tnsoea y,
euya-qjpmjsuojhyxxl,hoejhtjugngbhxahzenfehejhfx yqhgxohfxtmsjejgqkhUo
qnggjshUgguhzuphnghubbsjppnrjychenbehpmnsnop—pejhuytxpohaynsojqhixoe
znoehO peljrnofehugqhznoehCuperngkhZejghoejchbxoh mhasxthqnggjshugq
O peljrnofeheuqhbxgjhoxhbjohuhixvhuohoejhxmjsu,hCupernghzjgohoxhptxlj,
ugqhRsxgplchzjgohqxzghznoehenthoxhenphxzghsxxtpkhUaojshpnoongbhoejsj
axshpxtjhontjhejhsugh mpounspkhUgguhzuphuysjuqchqsjppjqhnghuhyxz-gjfljq
bxzghxahynbeohpnylhugqhrjyrjohoeuohpejheuqheuqhtuqjhnghMusnp,hugqhznoe
fxpoychzenojhyufjhxghejshejuq,hasutngbhejshaufj,hugqhmusonf yusyc
ijfxtngb,hpexzngbh mhejshquddyngbhiju ock

“Usjhcx hsjuyychbxngbhoxhoejhoejuojs?”hejhpunq,hoscngbhgxohoxhyxxlhuo
ejsk

“Zechqxhcx huplhznoehp fehuyust?”hpejhpunq,hzx gqjqhubunghuohenphgxo
yxxlngbhuohejskh“Zechpex yqg’ohNhbx?”

Pejhummjusjqhgxohoxh gqjspougqhoejhtxonrjhxahenphzxsqpk

“Xe,hxahfx spj,hoejsj’phgxhsjupxghzeuojrjs,”hejhpunq,hasxzgngbk

“Oeuo’ph. pohzeuohNhpuc,”hpejhpunq,hznyya yychsja pngbhoxhpjjhoejhnsxgc
xahenphoxgj,hugqhw njoycho sgngbhiuflhejshyxgb,hmjsa tjqhbyxrjk

“Uggu,haxshBxq’phpulj!hzeuohnphoejhtuoojshznoehcx ?”hejhpunq,hummjuyngb
oxhejshjvufoychuphxgfjhejshe piugqheuqhqxgjk

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhzeuohcx husjhuplngbk”

“Cx hlgxzhoeuohno’phx ohxahoejhw jponxghoxhbxk”

“Zechpx?hN’thgxohbxngbhuyxgjkhMsngfjpphRusrusuheuphbxgjhoxhqsjpp,hpej
nphbxngbhznoehtjk”

Ejhpes bbjqhenphpex yqjsphznoehughunshxahmjsmyjvnochugqhqjpmunsk

“I ohqxhcx htjughoxhpuchcx hqxg’ohlgxz?kkk”hejhijbugk

“I ohNhqxg’ohfusjhoxhlgxz!”hpejhuytxpohpesnjljqkh“Nhqxg’ohfusjhoxkhQxhN
sjbsjohzeuohNheurjhqxgj?hGx,hgx,hgx!hNahnohzjsjhuyyhoxhqxhubunghasxt
oejhijbnggngb,hnohzx yqhijhoejhputjkhAxsh p,haxshcx hugqhaxshtj,hoejsj
nphxgychxgjhoengbhoeuohtuoojsp,hzejoejshzjhyxrjhjufehxoejskhXoejs
mjxmyjhzjhgjjqhgxohfxgpnqjskhZechusjhzjhynrngbhejsjhumusohugqhgxo
pjjngbhjufehxoejs?hZechfug’ohNhbx?hNhyxrjhcx ,hugqhNhqxg’ohfusjhaxs
ugcoengb,”hpejhpunqhnghS ppnug,hbyugfngbhuohenthznoehuhmjf ynushbyjut
nghejshjcjphoeuohejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqkh“Nahcx heurjhgxohfeugbjqhox
tj,hzechqxg’ohcx hyxxlhuohtj?”

EjhyxxljqhuohejskhEjhpuzhuyyhoejhiju ochxahejshaufjhugqha yyhqsjpp,
uyzucphpxhijfxtngbhoxhejskhI ohgxzhejshiju ochugqhjyjbugfjhzjsjh. po
zeuohnssnouojqhentk

“Tchajjyngbhfuggxohfeugbj,hcx hlgxz,hi ohNhijbhcx ,hNhjgosjuohcx ,”hej
punqhubunghnghAsjgfe,hznoehuhgxojhxahojgqjshp mmynfuonxghnghenphrxnfj,
i ohznoehfxyqgjpphnghenphjcjpk

Pejhqnqhgxohejushenphzxsqp,hi ohpejhpuzhoejhfxyqgjpphxahenphjcjp,hugq
ugpzjsjqhznoehnssnouonxg:

“UgqhNhijbhcx hoxhjvmyunghzechNhpex yqhgxohbxk”

“Ijfu pjhnohtnbeohfu pjhcx kkkk”hejhejpnouojqk

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqkhCuperngh_g’jpohmuphfxtmsxtjoougo_,hugqhMsngfjpp
RusrusuhnphgxhzxspjhoeughxoejspkhXe,hejsjhpejhnp!”


Feumojsh33

RsxgplchaxshoejhanspohontjhjvmjsnjgfjqhuhajjyngbhxahugbjshubungpohUggu,
uytxpohuheuosjqhaxshejshznyya yychsja pngbhoxh gqjspougqhejshxzg
mxpnonxgkhOenphajjyngbhzuphubbsuruojqhichenphijngbh guiyjhoxhojyyhejs
myungychoejhfu pjhxahenphugbjskhNahejheuqhoxyqhejshqnsjfoychzeuohejhzup
oenglngb,hejhzx yqheurjhpunq:

“Nghoeuohqsjpp,hznoehuhmsngfjpphxgychoxxhzjyyhlgxzghoxhjrjscxgj,hox
pexzhcx spjyahuohoejhoejuojshnphjw nruyjgohgxohtjsjychoxhuflgxzyjqbngb
cx shmxpnonxghuphuhauyyjghzxtug,hi ohnphayngbngbhqxzghuhfeuyyjgbjhox
pxfnjoc,hoeuohnphoxhpuc,hf oongbhcx spjyahxaahasxthnohaxsjrjsk”

Ejhfx yqhgxohpuchoeuohoxhejskh“I ohexzhfughpejhaunyhoxhpjjhno,hugqhzeuo
nphbxngbhxghnghejs?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakhEjhajyohuohoejhputjhontjhoeuo
enphsjpmjfohaxshejshzuphqntngnpejqhzenyjhenphpjgpjhxahejshiju ochzup
ngojgpnanjqk

Ejhzjgohiuflhpfxzyngbhoxhenphsxxtp,hugqhpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhCuperng,
zex,hznoehenphyxgbhyjbphposjofejqhx ohxghuhfeuns,hzuphqsnglngbhisugqc
ugqhpjyodjshzuojs,hejhxsqjsjqhuhbyupphxahoejhputjhaxshentpjyak

“Cx hzjsjhouylngbhxahYuglxrplc’phMxzjsa ykhOeuo’phuhangjhexspj,hugqhN
zx yqhuqrnpjhcx hoxhi chent,”hpunqhCuperng,hbyugfngbhuohenphfxtsuqj’p
byxxtchaufjkh“Enphengq-w usojsphusjg’ohw nojhanspo-suoj,hi ohoejhyjbp
ugqhejuq—xgjhfx yqg’ohznpehaxshugcoengbhijoojsk”

“NhoenglhNhznyyhouljhent,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplck

Oejnshfxgrjspuonxghuix ohexspjphngojsjpojqhent,hi ohejhqnqhgxohaxshug
ngpougohaxsbjohUggu,hugqhfx yqhgxohejymhynpojgngbhoxhoejhpx gqhxahpojmp
nghoejhfxssnqxshugqhyxxlngbhuohoejhfyxflhxghoejhfentgjchmnjfjk

“UgguhUsluqcjrguhburjhxsqjsphoxhuggx gfjhoeuohpejheuphbxgjhoxhoej
oejuojsk”

Cuperng,honmmngbhugxoejshbyupphxahisugqchngoxhoejhi iiyngbhzuojs,hqsugl
nohugqhbxoh m,hi ooxgngbhenphfxuok

“Zjyy,hyjo’phbx,”hejhpunq,haungoychptnyngbh gqjshenpht poufej,hugq
pexzngbhichoenphptnyjhoeuohejhlgjzhoejhfu pjhxahRsxgplc’phbyxxtngjpp,
ugqhqnqhgxohuooufehugchpnbgnanfugfjhoxhnok

“N’thgxohbxngb,”hRsxgplchugpzjsjqhbyxxtnyck

“Zjyy,hNht po,hNhmsxtnpjqhoxkhBxxq-icj,hoejgkhNahcx hqx,hfxtjhoxhoej
pouyyp;hcx hfughouljhLs dng’phpouyy,”huqqjqhCupernghuphejhzjgohx ok

“Gx,hN’thi pck”

“Uhznajhnphuhfusj,hi ohno’phzxspjhzejghpej’phgxohuhznaj,”hoex beo
Cuperng,huphejhzuyljqhx ohxahoejhexojyk

Rsxgplc,hyjaohuyxgj,hbxoh mhasxthenphfeunshugqhijbughmufngbh mhugqhqxzg
oejhsxxtk

“Ugqhzeuo’phoxquc?hOejhax soehgnbeokkkkhCjbxshugqhenphznajhusjhoejsj,
ugqhtchtxoejs,htxpohynljyckhXahfx spjhuyyhMjojspi sb’phoejsjkhGxzhpej’p
bxgjhng,houljghxaahejshfyxulhugqhfxtjhngoxhoejhynbeokhO peljrnofe,
Cuperng,hMsngfjpphRusrusu,”hejhmnfo sjqhoejthoxhentpjyakkkkh“Zeuohuix o
tj?hJnoejshoeuohN’thasnbeojgjqhxsheurjhbnrjgh mhoxhO peljrnofehoej
snbeohoxhmsxojfohejs?hAsxthjrjschmxngohxahrnjz—po mnq,hpo mnq!kkkhUgq
zechnphpejhm oongbhtjhnghp fehuhmxpnonxg?”hejhpunqhznoehuhbjpo sjhxa
qjpmunsk

Znoehoeuohbjpo sjhejhlgxfljqhubungpohoejhouiyj,hxghzenfehoejsjhzup
pougqngbhoejhpjyodjshzuojshugqhoejhqjfugojshxahisugqc,hugqhuytxpoh mpjo
nokhEjhosnjqhoxhfuofehno,hyjohnohpynm,hugqhugbsnychlnfljqhoejhouiyj
xrjshugqhsugbk

“Nahcx hfusjhoxhijhnghtchpjsrnfj,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhruyjohzexhfutjhng,
“cx heuqhijoojshsjtjtijshcx shq onjpkhOenphpex yqg’ohijhejsjkhCx hx beo
oxheurjhfyjusjqhuzuck”

Oejhruyjo,hfxgpfnx phxahenphxzghnggxfjgfj,hzx yqheurjhqjajgqjqhentpjya,
i ohbyugfngbhuohenphtupojs,hejhpuzhasxthenphaufjhoeuohoejhxgychoengbhox
qxhzuphoxhijhpnyjgo,hugqhe ssnjqychoesjuqngbhenphzuchnghugqhx o,
qsxmmjqhqxzghxghoejhfusmjohugqhijbughbuoejsngbh mhoejhzexyjhugqhisxljg
byuppjphugqhixooyjpk

“Oeuo’phgxohcx shq oc;hpjgqhoejhzunojshoxhfyjushuzuc,hugqhbjohtchqsjpp
fxuohx ok”

Rsxgplchzjgohngoxhoejhoejuojshuoheuya-mupohjnbeokhOejhmjsaxstugfjhzup
ngha yyhpzngbkhOejhynooyjhxyqhixv-ljjmjs,hsjfxbgndngbhRsxgplchuphej
ejymjqhenthxaahznoehenpha shfxuo,hfuyyjqhenth“Cx shJvfjyyjgfc,”hugq
p bbjpojqhejhpex yqhgxohouljhuhg tijshi ohpex yqhpntmychfuyyhAcxqxskhNg
oejhisnbeoychynbeojqhfxssnqxshoejsjhzuphgxhxgjhi ohoejhixv-xmjgjshugq
ozxhuoojgqugophznoeha shfyxulphxghoejnshustphynpojgngbhuohoejhqxxspk
Oesx behoejhfyxpjqhqxxsphfutjhoejhpx gqphxahoejhqnpfsjjoh_pouffuox_
uffxtmugntjgohxahoejhxsfejposu,hugqhuhpngbyjhajtuyjhrxnfjhsjgqjsngb
qnpongfoychuht pnfuyhmesupjkhOejhqxxshxmjgjqhoxhyjohoejhixv-xmjgjshpynm
oesx be,hugqhoejhmesupjhqsuzngbhoxhoejhjgqhsjufejqhRsxgplc’phejusngb
fyjusyckhI ohoejhqxxsphzjsjhfyxpjqhubunghuohxgfj,hugqhRsxgplchqnqhgxo
ejushoejhjgqhxahoejhmesupjhugqhoejhfuqjgfjhxahoejhuffxtmugntjgo,hoex be
ejhlgjzhasxthoejhoe gqjshxahummyu pjhoeuohnohzuphxrjskhZejghejhjgojsjq
oejheuyy,hisnyynugoychynbeojqhznoehfeugqjynjsphugqhbuph.jop,hoejhgxnpj
zuphponyyhbxngbhxgkhXghoejhpoubjhoejhpngbjs,hixzngbhugqhptnyngb,hznoe
iusjhpex yqjsphayupengbhznoehqnutxgqp,hzup,hznoehoejhejymhxahoejhojgxs
zexheuqhbnrjghejshenphust,hbuoejsngbh mhoejhix w jophoeuohzjsjhaycngb
uzlzusqychxrjshoejhaxxoynbeopkhOejghpejhzjgoh mhoxhuhbjgoyjtughznoe
byxppchmxtuqjqheunshmusojqhqxzghoejhfjgojs,hzexhzuphposjofengbhufsxpp
oejhaxxoynbeophexyqngbhx ohpxtjoengbhoxhejs,hugqhuyyhoejhm iynfhnghoej
pouyyphuphzjyyhuphnghoejhixvjphzuphnghjvfnojtjgo,hfsugngbhaxszusq,
pex ongbhugqhfyummngbkhOejhfxgq foxshnghenphenbehfeunshuppnpojqhng
muppngbhoejhxaajsngb,hugqhposunbeojgjqhenphzenojhonjkhRsxgplchzuyljq
ngoxhoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhpouyyp,hugq,hpougqngbhponyy,hijbughyxxlngbhuix o
entkhOeuohquchyjpphoeughjrjshzuphenphuoojgonxgho sgjqh mxghoej
autnynus,heuino uyhp ssx gqngbp,hoejhpoubj,hoejhgxnpj,huyyhoej
autnynus,h gngojsjpongb,hmusonfxyxsjqhejsqhxahpmjfouoxsphnghoejhmufljq
oejuojsk

Oejsjhzjsj,huphuyzucp,hoejhputjhyuqnjphxahpxtjhpxsohznoehxaanfjsphxa
pxtjhpxsohnghoejhiuflhxahoejhixvjp;hoejhputjhbunychqsjppjqhzxtjg—Bxq
lgxzphzex—ugqh gnaxstphugqhiyuflhfxuop;hoejhputjhqnsochfsxzqhnghoej
 mmjshbuyyjsc;hugqhutxgbhoejhfsxzq,hnghoejhixvjphugqhnghoejhasxgohsxzp,
zjsjhpxtjhaxsochxahoejh_sjuy_hmjxmyjkhUgqhoxhoexpjhxupjphRsxgplchuo
xgfjhqnsjfojqhenphuoojgonxg,hugqhznoehoejthejhjgojsjqhuohxgfjhngox
sjyuonxgk

Oejhufohzuphxrjshzejghejhzjgohng,hugqhpxhejhqnqhgxohbxhposunbeohoxhenp
isxoejs’phixv,hi ohbxngbh mhoxhoejhanspohsxzhxahpouyyphpoxmmjqhuohoej
axxoynbeophznoehPjsm exrplxc,hzex,hpougqngbhznoehxgjhlgjjhsunpjqhugq
enphejjyhxghoejhaxxoynbeop,hfu beohpnbeohxahenthnghoejhqnpougfjhugq
ijflxgjqhoxhent,hptnyngbk

RsxgplcheuqhgxohcjohpjjghUggukhEjhm smxpjychurxnqjqhyxxlngbhnghejs
qnsjfonxgkhI ohejhlgjzhichoejhqnsjfonxghxahmjxmyj’phjcjphzejsjhpejhzupk
Ejhyxxljqhsx gqhqnpfsjjoyc,hi ohejhzuphgxohpjjlngbhejs;hjvmjfongbhoej
zxspo,henphjcjphpx beohaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhOxhenphsjynjahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzuphgxohnghoejhoejuojshoeuohjrjgngbk

“Exzhynooyjhxahoejhtnynouschtughoejsjhnphyjaohnghcx !”hPjsm exrplxchzup
pucngbhoxhentkh“Uhqnmyxtuo,hughusonpo,hpxtjoengbhxahoeuohpxso,hxgj
zx yqhpuck”

“Cjp,hnohzuphynljhbxngbhiuflhextjhzejghNhm ohxghuhiyuflhfxuo,”hugpzjsjq
Rsxgplc,hptnyngbhugqhpyxzychoulngbhx ohenphxmjsu-byuppk

“Zjyy,hN’yyhxzghNhjgrchcx hoejsjkhZejghNhfxtjhiuflhasxthuisxuqhugqhm o
xghoenp,”hejhox fejqhenphjmu yjop,h“Nhsjbsjohtchasjjqxtk”

Pjsm exrplxcheuqhyxgbhbnrjgh mhuyyhexmjhxahRsxgplc’phfusjjs,hi ohej
ynljqhenthuphijaxsj,hugqhzuphgxzhmusonf yusychfxsqnuyhoxhentk

“Zeuohuhmnochcx hzjsjhgxohnghontjhaxshoejhanspohufo!”

Rsxgplc,hynpojgngbhznoehxgjhjus,htxrjqhenphxmjsu-byupphasxthoejhpouyyp
ugqhpfuggjqhoejhixvjpkhGjushuhyuqchnghuho siughugqhuhiuyqhxyqhtug,hzex
pjjtjqhoxhzurjhugbsnychnghoejhtxrngbhxmjsu-byupp,hRsxgplchp qqjgyc
fu beohpnbeohxahUggu’phejuq,hmsx q,hposnlngbychiju ona y,hugqhptnyngb
nghoejhasutjhxahyufjkhPejhzuphnghoejhanaoehixv,hozjgochmufjphasxthentk
Pejhzuphpnoongbhnghasxgo,hugqhpynbeoycho sgngb,hzuphpucngbhpxtjoengbhox
CuperngkhOejhpjoongbhxahejshejuqhxghejsheugqpxtj,hisxuqhpex yqjsp,hugq
oejhsjposungjqhjvfnojtjgohugqhisnyynugfjhxahejshjcjphugqhejshzexyjhaufj
sjtngqjqhenthxahejsh. pohuphejheuqhpjjghejshuohoejhiuyyhnghTxpfxzkhI o
ejhajyoh oojsychqnaajsjgohoxzusqphejshiju ochgxzkhNghenphajjyngbhaxs
ejshgxzhoejsjhzuphgxhjyjtjgohxahtcpojsc,hugqhpxhejshiju oc,hoex behno
uoosufojqhenthjrjghtxsjhngojgpjychoeughijaxsj,hburjhenthgxzhuhpjgpjhxa
ng. sckhPejhzuphgxohyxxlngbhnghenphqnsjfonxg,hi ohRsxgplchajyohoeuohpej
euqhpjjghenthuysjuqck

ZejghRsxgplcho sgjqhoejhxmjsu-byupphubunghnghoeuohqnsjfonxg,hejhgxonfjq
oeuohMsngfjpphRusrusuhzuphmusonf yusychsjq,hugqhljmohyu bengb
 gguo suyychugqhyxxlngbhsx gqhuohoejhgjvohixvkhUggu,haxyqngbhejshaug
ugqhoummngbhnohxghoejhsjqhrjyrjo,hzuphbudngbhuzuchugqhqnqhgxohpjj,hugq
xirnx pychqnqhgxohznpehoxhpjj,hzeuohzuphoulngbhmyufjhnghoejhgjvohixvk
Cuperng’phaufjhzxsjhoejhjvmsjppnxghzenfehzuphfxttxghzejghejhzuphyxpngb
uohfusqpkhPfxzyngb,hejhp fljqhoejhyjaohjgqhxahenpht poufejha soejshugq
a soejshngoxhenphtx oe,hugqhfupohpnqjyxgbhbyugfjphuohoejhgjvohixvk

NghoeuohixvhxghoejhyjaohzjsjhoejhLusoupxrpkhRsxgplchlgjzhoejt,hugqhlgjz
oeuohUgguhzuphufw ungojqhznoehoejtkhTuqutjhLusoupxru,huhoenghynooyj
zxtug,hzuphpougqngbh mhnghejshixv,hugq,hejshiuflho sgjqh mxghUggu,hpej
zuphm oongbhxghuhtugoyjhoeuohejshe piugqhzuphexyqngbhaxshejskhEjshaufj
zuphmuyjhugqhugbsc,hugqhpejhzuphouylngbhjvfnojqyckhLusoupxr,huhauo,
iuyqhtug,hzuphfxgong uyychyxxlngbhsx gqhuohUggu,hzenyjhejhuoojtmojqhox
pxxoejhenphznajkhZejghoejhznajheuqhbxgjhx o,hoejhe piugqhyngbjsjqhu
yxgbhzenyj,hugqhosnjqhoxhfuofehUggu’phjcj,hxirnx pychugvnx phoxhixzhox
ejskhI ohUggu,hznoeh gtnpouluiyjhngojgonxg,hurxnqjqhgxonfngbhent,hugq
ouyljqhoxhCuperng,hzexpjhfsxmmjqhejuqhzuphijgohqxzghoxhejskhLusoupxr
zjgohx ohznoex ohtulngbhenphpuy ouonxg,hugqhoejhixvhzuphyjaohjtmock

Rsxgplchfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhjvufoychzeuoheuqhmuppjqhijozjjghoej
LusoupxrphugqhUggu,hi ohejhpuzhoeuohpxtjoengbhe tnynuongbhaxshUgguheuq
eummjgjqkhEjhlgjzhoenphixoehasxthzeuohejheuqhpjjg,hugqhtxpohxahuyyhasxt
oejhaufjhxahUggu,hzex,hejhfx yqhpjj,hzuphouvngbhjrjschgjsrjhoxhfussc
oesx behoejhmusohpejheuqhouljgh mkhUgqhnghtungoungngbhoenphuoono qjhxa
jvojsguyhfxtmxp sjhpejhzuphfxtmyjojychp ffjppa ykhUgcxgjhzexhqnqhgxo
lgxzhejshugqhejshfnsfyj,hzexheuqhgxohejusqhuyyhoejh oojsugfjphxahoej
zxtjghjvmsjppnrjhxahfxttnpjsuonxg,hngqnbguonxg,hugqhutudjtjgo,hoeuohpej
pex yqhpexzhejspjyahnghpxfnjoc,hugqhpexzhejspjyahpxhfxgpmnf x pychznoe
ejshyufjhugqhejshiju oc,hzx yqheurjhuqtnsjqhoejhpjsjgnochugqhyxrjyngjpp
xahoenphzxtughznoex ohuhp pmnfnxghoeuohpejhzuph gqjsbxngbhoej
pjgpuonxgphxahuhtughnghoejhpoxflpk

Lgxzngbhoeuohpxtjoengbheuqheummjgjq,hi ohgxohlgxzngbhmsjfnpjychzeuo,
Rsxgplchajyohuhoesnyyhxahubxgndngbhugvnjoc,hugqhexmngbhoxhangqhx o
pxtjoengb,hejhzjgohoxzusqphenphisxoejs’phixvkhM smxpjychfexxpngbhoej
zuchsx gqha soejpohasxthUggu’phixv,hejh.xpoyjqhuphejhfutjhx ohubungpo
oejhfxyxgjyhxahenphxyqhsjbntjgohouylngbhoxhozxhufw ungougfjpkhRsxgplc
ejusqhoejhgutjhxahTuqutjhLusjgngu,hugqhgxonfjqhexzhoejhfxyxgjyheupojgjq
oxhuqqsjpphRsxgplchyx qychichgutj,hznoehuhtjugngbhbyugfjhuohenp
fxtmugnxgpk

“Ue,hRsxgplc!hZejghusjhcx hfxtngbhoxhoejhsjbntjgo?hZjhfug’ohyjohcx hxaa
znoex ohuhp mmjskhCx ’sjhxgjhxahoejhxyqhpjo,”hpunqhoejhfxyxgjyhxahenp
sjbntjgok

“Nhfug’ohpoxm,huza yychpxssc,hugxoejshontj,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hugqhejhsug
 mpounsphoxzusqphenphisxoejs’phixvk

Oejhxyqhfx gojpp,hRsxgplc’phtxoejs,hznoehejshpojjy-bsuchf syp,hzuphng
enphisxoejs’phixvkhRuscuhznoehoejhcx gbhMsngfjpphPxsxlnguhtjohenthng
oejhfxssnqxsk

YjurngbhoejhMsngfjpphPxsxlnguhznoehejshtxoejs,hRuscuhejyqhx ohejsheugq
oxhejshisxoejs-ng-yuz,hugqhijbughnttjqnuojychoxhpmjulhxahzeuo
ngojsjpojqhentkhPejhzuphtxsjhjvfnojqhoeughejheuqhjrjshpjjghejsk

“Nhoenglhno’phtjughugqheuoja y,hugqhTuqutjhLusoupxruheuqhgxhsnbeohoxhqx
nokhTuqutjhLusjgngukkkk”hpejhijbugk

“I ohzeuohnphno?hNhqxg’ohlgxzk”

“Zeuo?hcx ’rjhgxohejusq?”

“Cx hlgxzhNhpex yqhijhoejhyupohmjspxghoxhejushxahnok”

“Oejsjhnpg’ohuhtxsjhpmnoja yhfsjuo sjhoeughoeuohTuqutjhLusoupxru!”

“I ohzeuohqnqhpejhqx?”

“Tche piugqhoxyqhtjkkkkhPejheuphngp yojqhTuqutjhLusjgngukhEjshe piugq
ijbughouylngbhoxhejshufsxpphoejhixv,hugqhTuqutjhLusoupxruhtuqjhuhpfjgjk
Pejhpunqhpxtjoengbhuyx q,hejhpucp,hpxtjoengbhngp yongb,hugqhzjgohuzuck”

“Fx go,hcx shtutughnphuplngbhaxshcx ,”hpunqhoejhcx gbhMsngfjpp
Pxsxlngu,hmjjmngbhx ohxahoejhqxxshxahoejhixvk

“N’rjhijjghjvmjfongbhcx huyyhoejhzenyj,”hpunqhenphtxoejs,hptnyngb
pusfuponfuyyckh“Cx hzjsjhgxzejsjhoxhijhpjjgk”

Ejshpxghpuzhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohp mmsjpphuhptnyjhxahqjynbeok

“Bxxqhjrjgngb,htutugkhNheurjhfxtjhoxhcx ,”hejhpunqhfxyqyck

“Zechusjg’ohcx hbxngbhoxh_aunsjhyuhfx shàhTuqutjhLusjgngu?_”hpejhzjgo
xg,hzejghMsngfjpphPxsxlnguheuqhtxrjqhuzuckh“_JyyjhaunohpjgpuonxgkhXg
x iynjhyuhMuoonhmx shjyyj_k”

“Tutug,hNheurjhupljqhcx hgxohoxhpuchugcoengbhoxhtjhxahoeuo,”hej
ugpzjsjq,hpfxzyngbk

“N’thxgychpucngbhzeuohjrjscxgj’phpucngbk”

Rsxgplchtuqjhgxhsjmyc,hugqhpucngbhuhajzhzxsqphoxhMsngfjpphPxsxlngu,hej
zjgohuzuckhUohoejhqxxshejhtjohenphisxoejsk

“Ue,hUyjvjc!”hpunqhenphisxoejskh“Exzhqnpb pongb!hNqnxohxahuhzxtug,
gxoengbhjypjkkkkhNhzugojqhoxhbxhposunbeohoxhejskhYjo’phbxhoxbjoejsk”

RsxgplchqnqhgxohejushentkhZnoehsumnqhpojmphejhzjgohqxzgpounsp;hejhajyo
oeuohejht pohqxhpxtjoengb,hi ohejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuokhUgbjshznoehejshaxs
eurngbhm ohejspjyahugqhenthnghp fehuhauypjhmxpnonxg,hoxbjoejshznoehmnoc
axshejshp aajsngb,hanyyjqhenphejusokhEjhzjgohqxzg,hugqhtuqjhposunbeo
axshUggu’phixvkhUohejshixvhpoxxqhPosjtxr,houylngbhoxhejsk

“Oejsjhusjhgxhtxsjhojgxspkh_Yjhtx yjhjghjpohisnpé!_”

RsxgplchixzjqhoxhejshugqhpoxmmjqhoxhbsjjohPosjtxrk

“Cx hfutjhnghyuoj,hNhoengl,hugqheurjhtnppjqhoejhijpohpxgb,”hUgguhpunq
oxhRsxgplc,hbyugfngbhnsxgnfuyyc,hejhoex beo,huohentk

“Nhuthuhmxxsh. qbjhxaht pnf,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhpojsgychuohejsk

“YnljhMsngfjhCuperng,”hpejhpunqhptnyngb,h“zexhfxgpnqjsphoeuohMuoon
pngbphoxxhyx qk”

“Oeuglhcx ,”hpejhpunq,hejshynooyjheugqhnghnophyxgbhbyxrjhoulngbhoej
myucinyyhRsxgplchmnfljqh m,hugqhp qqjgychuohoeuohngpougohejshyxrjyc
aufjhw nrjsjqkhPejhbxoh mhugqhzjgohngoxhoejhngojsnxshxahoejhixvk

Gxonfngbhnghoejhgjvohufohoeuohejshixvhzuphjtmoc,hRsxgplc,hsx pngb
ngqnbgugoh“e pejp”hnghoejhpnyjgohu qnjgfj,hzjgohx ohnghoejhtnqqyjhxahu
pxyxhugqhqsxrjhextjk

UgguhzuphuysjuqchuohextjkhZejghRsxgplchzjgoh mhoxhejs,hpejhzuphnghoej
putjhqsjpphuphpejheuqhzxsghuohoejhoejuojskhPejhzuphpnoongbhnghoejhanspo
ustfeunshubungpohoejhzuyy,hyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsjhejskhPejhyxxljqhuo
ent,hugqhuohxgfjhsjp tjqhejshaxstjshmxpnonxgk

“Uggu,”hejhpunqk

“Cx ,hcx husjhoxhiyutjhaxshjrjscoengb!”hpejhfsnjq,hznoehojusphxa
qjpmunshugqheuosjqhnghejshrxnfj,hbjoongbh mk

“Nhijbbjq,hNhntmyxsjqhcx hgxohoxhbx,hNhlgjzhnohzx yqhijh gmyjupugokkkk”

“ gmyjupugo!”hpejhfsnjq—“enqjx p!hUphyxgbhuphNhynrjhNhpeuyyhgjrjs
axsbjohnokhPejhpunqhnohzuphuhqnpbsufjhoxhpnohijpnqjhtjk”

“Uhpnyychzxtug’phfeuoojs,”hejhpunq:h“i ohzechsnplhno,hzechmsxrxlj?kkk”

“Nheuojhcx shfuytkhCx hx beohgxohoxheurjhisx beohtjhoxhoenpkhNahcx heuq
yxrjqhtjkkkk”

“Uggu!hExzhqxjphoejhw jponxghxahtchyxrjhfxtjhng?”

“Xe,hnahcx hyxrjqhtj,huphNhyxrj,hnahcx hzjsjhoxso sjqhuphNhut!kkk”hpej
punq,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahojssxsk

Ejhzuphpxsschaxshejs,hugqhugbschgxoznoepougqngbkhEjhupp sjqhejshxahenp
yxrjhijfu pjhejhpuzhoeuohoenphzuphoejhxgychtjugphxahpxxoengbhejs,hugq
ejhqnqhgxohsjmsxufehejshnghzxsqp,hi ohnghenphejusohejhsjmsxufejqhejsk

Ugqhoejhuppjrjsuonxgphxahenphyxrj,hzenfehpjjtjqhoxhenthpxhr ybushoeuo
ejhzuphupeutjqhoxh oojshoejt,hpejhqsuglhnghjubjsyc,hugqhbsuq uyyc
ijfutjhfuytjskhOejhgjvohquc,hfxtmyjojychsjfxgfnyjq,hoejchyjaohaxshoej
fx gosck






MUSOhPNV


Feumojsh1

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpmjgohoejhp ttjshznoehejshfenyqsjghuohMxlsxrplxj,huo
ejshpnpojshLnoochYjrng’pkhOejhex pjhxghejshxzghjpouojhzuphw nojhng
s ngp,hugqhYjrnghugqhenphznajheuqhmjsp uqjqhejshoxhpmjgqhoejhp ttjs
znoehoejtkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehbsjuoychummsxrjqhxahoejhussugbjtjgokhEj
punqhejhzuphrjschpxsschenphxaanfnuyhq onjphmsjrjgojqhenthasxthpmjgqngb
oejhp ttjshnghoejhfx goschznoehenphautnyc,hzenfehzx yqheurjhijjghoej
bsjuojpoheummngjpphaxshent;hugqhsjtungngbhnghTxpfxz,hejhfutjhqxzghox
oejhfx goschasxthontjhoxhontjhaxshuhquchxshozxkhIjpnqjphoejhXiyxgplcp,
znoehuyyhoejnshfenyqsjghugqhoejnshbxrjsgjpp,hoejhxyqhmsngfjpphoxxhfutj
oxhpouchoeuohp ttjshznoehoejhYjrngp,huphpejhfxgpnqjsjqhnohejshq ochox
zuofehxrjshejshngjvmjsnjgfjqhqu beojshnghejsh_ngojsjpongbhfxgqnonxg_k
Txsjxrjs,hRusjglu,hLnooc’phasnjgqhuisxuq,hljmohejshmsxtnpjhoxhfxtjhox
Lnoochzejghpejhzuphtussnjq,hugqhpoucjqhznoehejshasnjgqkhUyyhxahoejpj
zjsjhasnjgqphxshsjyuonxgphxahYjrng’phznajkhUgqhoex behejhynljqhoejt
uyy,hejhsuoejshsjbsjoojqhenphxzghYjrnghzxsyqhugqhzucp,hzenfehzup
ptxoejsjqhichoenphngay vhxahoejh“Peofejsiuoplchjyjtjgo,”huphejhfuyyjq
nohoxhentpjyakhXahenphxzghsjyuonxgphoejsjhpoucjqhznoehenthxgychPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hi ohejhoxxhzuphuhtughxahoejhLxdgnpejrhugqhgxohoejhYjrng
poutm,hpxhoeuohoejhYjrnghpmnsnohzuph oojsychxiynojsuojqk

NghoejhYjrngp’hex pj,hpxhyxgbhqjpjsojq,hoejsjhzjsjhgxzhpxhtugchmjxmyj
oeuohuytxpohuyyhoejhsxxtphzjsjhxff mnjq,hugqhuytxpohjrjschquchno
eummjgjqhoeuohoejhxyqhmsngfjpp,hpnoongbhqxzghoxhouiyj,hfx gojqhoejthuyy
xrjs,hugqhm ohoejhoensojjgoehbsugqpxghxshbsugqqu beojshuohuhpjmusuoj
ouiyjkhUgqhLnooc,hznoehejshfusja yhex pjljjmngb,heuqhgxhynooyjhosx iyj
oxhbjohuyyhoejhfenfljgp,ho sljcp,hugqhbjjpj,hxahzenfehpxhtugchzjsj
gjjqjqhoxhpuonpachoejhp ttjshummjonojphxahoejhrnpnoxsphugqhfenyqsjgk

OejhzexyjhautnychzjsjhpnoongbhuohqnggjskhQxyyc’phfenyqsjg,hznoehoejns
bxrjsgjpphugqhRusjglu,hzjsjhtulngbhmyugphaxshbxngbhoxhyxxlhaxs
t pesxxtpkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzexhzuphyxxljqh mhoxhichuyyhoejhmusochaxs
enphngojyyjfohugqhyjusgngb,hznoehuhsjpmjfohoeuohuytxpohutx gojqhoxhuzj,
p smsnpjqhjrjscxgjhich.xngngbhnghoejhfxgrjspuonxghuix oht pesxxtpk

“Ouljhtjhznoehcx khNhuthrjschaxgqhxahmnflngbht pesxxtp,”hejhpunq,
yxxlngbhuohRusjglu;h“Nhoenglhno’phuhrjschgnfjhxff muonxgk”

“Xe,hzjhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojq,”hugpzjsjqhRusjglu,hfxyxsngbhuhynooyjkhLnooc
jvfeugbjqhtjugngba yhbyugfjphznoehQxyyckhOejhmsxmxpuyhxahoejhyjusgjq
ugqhngojyyjfo uyhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehoxhbxhyxxlngbhaxsht pesxxtphznoe
RusjgluhfxganstjqhfjsounghoejxsnjphxahLnooc’phznoehzenfehejshtngqheuq
ijjghrjschi pchxahyuojkhPejhtuqjheupojhoxhuqqsjpphpxtjhsjtuslhoxhejs
txoejs,hpxhoeuohejshyxxlhpex yqhgxohijhgxonfjqkhUaojshqnggjshPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehpuohznoehenphf mhxahfxaajjhuohoejhqsuzngb-sxxthzngqxz,hugq
zenyjhejhoxxlhmusohnghuhfxgrjspuonxghejheuqhijb ghznoehenphisxoejs,hej
zuofejqhoejhqxxshoesx behzenfehoejhfenyqsjghzx yqhpousohxghoej
t pesxxt-mnflngbhjvmjqnonxgkhYjrnghzuphpnoongbhnghoejhzngqxzhgjushenp
isxoejsk

Lnoochpoxxqhijpnqjhejshe piugq,hjrnqjgoychuzunongbhoejhjgqhxahu
fxgrjspuonxghoeuoheuqhgxhngojsjpohaxshejs,hnghxsqjshoxhojyyhent
pxtjoengbk

“Cx heurjhfeugbjqhnghtugchsjpmjfophpngfjhcx shtussnubj,hugqhaxshoej
ijoojs,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hptnyngbhoxhLnooc,hugqhxirnx pychynooyj
ngojsjpojqhnghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,h“i ohcx heurjhsjtungjqhos jhoxhcx s
muppnxghaxshqjajgqngbhoejhtxpohmusuqxvnfuyhoejxsnjpk”

“Luocu,hno’phgxohbxxqhaxshcx hoxhpougq,”hejshe piugqhpunqhoxhejs,
m oongbhuhfeunshaxshejshugqhyxxlngbhpnbgnanfugoychuohejsk

“Xe,hugqhoejsj’phgxhontjhjnoejs,”huqqjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hpjjngbhoej
fenyqsjghs ggngbhx ok

UohoejhejuqhxahoejthuyyhOugcuhbuyyxmjqhpnqjzucp,hnghejshonbeoyc-qsuzg
poxflngbp,hugqhzurngbhuhiupljohugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’pheuo,hpejhsug
posunbeoh mhoxhentk

Ixyqychs ggngbh mhoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehznoehpengngbhjcjp,hpxhynljhejs
auoejs’phangjhjcjp,hpejheugqjqhenthenpheuohugqhtuqjhuphoex behpejhzx yq
m ohnohxghaxshent,hpxaojgngbhejshasjjqxthichuhpechugqhasnjgqychptnyjk

“Rusjglu’phzunongb,”hpejhpunq,hfusja yychm oongbhenpheuohxg,hpjjngb
asxthPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phptnyjhoeuohpejhtnbeohqxhpxk

Rusjgluhzuphpougqngbhuohoejhqxxs,hqsjppjqhnghuhcjyyxzhmsngohbxzg,hznoe
uhzenojhljsfenjahxghejshejuqk

“N’thfxtngb,hN’thfxtngb,hRusrusuhUgqsjjrgu,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
angnpengbhenphf mhxahfxaajj,hugqhm oongbhngoxhoejnshpjmusuojhmxfljop
enpheugqljsfenjahugqhfnbus-fupjk

“UgqhexzhpzjjohtchRusjgluhnp!hje?”hpunqhLnoochoxhejshe piugq,huphpxxg
uphPjsbjchNrugxrnofehsxpjkhPejhpmxljhpxhoeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehfx yq
ejus,hugqhnohzuphfyjushoeuohpejhtjugohenthoxhqxhpxkh“Ugqhexz
bxxq-yxxlngbhpejhnp—p fehuhsjangjqhiju oc!hRusjglu!”hLnoochpex ojqk
“Peuyyhcx hijhnghoejhtnyyhfxmpj?hZj’yyhfxtjhx ohoxhcx k”

“Cx hfjsoungychaxsbjohcx shfxgqnonxg,hLnooc,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjpp,
e ssnjqychfxtngbhx ohuohoejhqxxskh“Cx ht pog’ohpex ohynljhoeuok”

Rusjglu,hejusngbhLnooc’phrxnfjhugqhejshtxoejs’phsjmsntugq,hzjgohznoe
ynbeo,hsumnqhpojmph mhoxhLnoockhOejhsumnqnochxahejshtxrjtjgo,hejs
ay pejqhugqhjubjshaufj,hjrjscoengbhijosucjqhoeuohpxtjoengbhx ohxahoej
fxttxghzuphbxngbhxghnghejskhLnoochlgjzhzeuohoenphzup,hugqheuqhijjg
zuofengbhejshngojgoyckhPejhfuyyjqhRusjgluhuohoeuohtxtjgohtjsjychng
xsqjshtjgouyychoxhbnrjhejshuhiyjppngbhaxshoejhntmxsougohjrjgohzenfe,hup
Lnoochaugfnjq,hzuphix gqhoxhfxtjhoxhmupphoeuohquchuaojshqnggjshnghoej
zxxqk

“Rusjglu,hNhpex yqhijhrjscheummchnahuhfjsounghpxtjoengbhzjsjhox
eummjg,”hpejhzenpmjsjqhuphpejhlnppjqhejsk

“Ugqhusjhcx hfxtngbhznoeh p?”hRusjgluhpunqhoxhYjrnghnghfxga pnxg,
msjojgqngbhgxohoxheurjhejusqhzeuoheuqhijjghpunqk

“Nhuthfxtngb,hi ohxgychuphaushuphoejhoesjpengb-ayxxs,hugqhoejsjhNhpeuyy
poxmk”

“Zec,hzeuohqxhcx hzugohoejsj?”hpunqhLnoock

“Nht pohbxhoxheurjhuhyxxlhuohoejhgjzhzubxgp,hugqhoxhfejflhoejhngrxnfj,”
punqhYjrng;h“ugqhzejsjhznyyhcx hij?”

“Xghoejhojssufjk”


Feumojsh2

XghoejhojssufjhzjsjhuppjtiyjqhuyyhoejhyuqnjphxahoejhmusockhOejchuyzucp
ynljqhpnoongbhoejsjhuaojshqnggjs,hugqhoeuohquchoejcheuqhzxslhoxhqx
oejsjhoxxkhIjpnqjphoejhpjzngbhugqhlgnoongbhxahiuichfyxoejp,hznoehzenfe
uyyhxahoejthzjsjhi pc,hoeuohuaojsgxxgh.uthzuphijngbhtuqjhxghoejhojssufj
ichuhtjoexqhgjzhoxhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hznoex ohoejhuqqnonxghxahzuojsk
Lnoocheuqhngosxq fjqhoenphgjzhtjoexq,hzenfeheuqhijjghngh pjhnghejs
extjkhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hoxhzexthoejhouplhxah.ut-tulngbheuqhuyzucphijjg
ngos pojq,hfxgpnqjsngbhoeuohzeuoheuqhijjghqxgjhnghoejhYjrnghex pjexyq
fx yqhgxohijhutnpp,heuqhgjrjsoejyjpphm ohzuojshznoehoejhposuzijssnjp,
tungoungngbhoeuohoejh.uthfx yqhgxohijhtuqjhznoex ohnokhPejheuqhijjg
fu beohnghoejhufo,hugqhzuphgxzhtulngbh.uthijaxsjhjrjscxgj,hugqhnohzup
oxhijhmsxrjqhoxhejshfxgfy pnrjychoeuoh.uthfx yqhijhrjschzjyyhtuqj
znoex ohzuojsk

UbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hejshaufjhejuojqhugqhugbsc,hejsheunsh gonqc,hugqhejs
oenghustphiusjhoxhoejhjyixzp,hzupho sgngbhoejhmsjpjsrngb-mughxrjshoej
feusfxuyhpoxrj,hyxxlngbhquslychuohoejhsupmijssnjphugqhqjrx oychexmngb
oejchzx yqhponflhugqhgxohfxxlhmsxmjsyckhOejhmsngfjpp,hfxgpfnx phoeuo
UbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phzsuoeht pohijhfenjaychqnsjfojqhubungpohejs,huphoej
mjspxghsjpmxgpniyjhaxshoejhsupmijssch.ut-tulngb,hosnjqhoxhummjushoxhij
uipxsijqhnghxoejshoengbphugqhgxohngojsjpojqhnghoejh.ut,houyljqhxahxoejs
tuoojsp,hi ohfupohpojuyoechbyugfjphnghoejhqnsjfonxghxahoejhpoxrjk

“Nhuyzucphi chtchtunqp’hqsjppjphtcpjya,hxahpxtjhfejumhtuojsnuy,”hoej
msngfjpphpunq,hfxgong ngbhoejhmsjrnx phfxgrjspuonxgkh“Npg’ohnohontjhox
plnthno,htchqjus?”hpejhuqqjq,huqqsjppngbhUbuajuhTneuyxrgukh“Oejsj’phgxo
oejhpynbeojpohgjjqhaxshcx hoxhqxhno,hugqhno’phexohaxshcx ,”hpejhpunq,
poxmmngbhLnoock

“N’yyhqxhno,”hpunqhQxyyc,hugqhbjoongbh m,hpejhfusja yychmuppjqhoej
pmxxghxrjshoejhasxoengbhp bus,hugqhasxthontjhoxhontjhpexxlhxaahoej
fyngbngbh.uthasxthoejhpmxxghichlgxflngbhnohxghuhmyuojhoeuohzuphfxrjsjq
znoehcjyyxz-sjqhpf thugqhiyxxq-fxyxsjqhpcs mkh“Exzhoejc’yyhjg.xchoenp
uohoju-ontj!”hpejhoex beohxahejshfenyqsjg,hsjtjtijsngbhexzhpejhejspjya
uphuhfenyqheuqhzxgqjsjqhexzhnohzuphoejhbsxzg- mhmjxmyjhqnqhgxohjuohzeuo
zuphijpohxahuyy—oejhpf thxahoejh.utk

“Ponruhpucphno’pht fehijoojshoxhbnrjhtxgjck”hQxyychoxxlh mhtjugzenyj
oejhzjnbeochp i.jfoh gqjshqnpf ppnxg,hzeuohmsjpjgophpex yqhijhtuqjhox
pjsrugopkh“I okkkk”

“Txgjc’phx ohxahoejhw jponxg!”hoejhmsngfjpphugqhLnoochjvfyuntjqhznoe
xgjhrxnfjkh“Oejchummsjfnuojhuhmsjpjgokkkk”

“Zjyy,hyupohcjus,haxshngpougfj,hNhix beohx shTuosxguhPjtcjgxrgu,hgxohu
mxmyng,hi ohpxtjoengbhxahoeuohpxso,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Nhsjtjtijshpejhzuphzjusngbhnohxghcx shgutjquck”

“Uhfeustngbhmuoojsg—pxhpntmyjhugqhsjangjq,—Nhpex yqheurjhynljqhno
tcpjya,hnahpejheuqg’oheuqhnokhPxtjoengbhynljhRusjglu’pkhPxhmsjoochugq
ngjvmjgpnrjk”

“Zjyy,hgxzhNhoenglhno’phqxgj,”hpunqhQxyyc,hqsxmmngbhoejhpcs mhasxthoej
pmxxgk

“Zejghnohpjophuphnohqsxmp,hno’phsjuqckhFxxlhnohuhynooyjhyxgbjs,hUbuaju
Tneuyxrguk”

“Oejhaynjp!”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguhugbsnyckh“No’yyhijh. pohoejhputj,”
pejhuqqjqk

“Ue!hexzhpzjjohnohnp!hqxg’ohasnbeojghno!”hLnoochpunqhp qqjgyc,hyxxlngb
uohuhpmussxzhoeuoheuqhpjooyjqhxghoejhpojmhugqhzuphmjflngbhuohoejhfjgojs
xahuhsupmijssck

“Cjp,hi ohcx hljjmhuhynooyjha soejshasxthoejhpoxrj,”hpunqhejshtxoejsk

“_ÀhmsxmxphqjhRusjglu_,”hpunqhLnooc,hpmjulngbhnghAsjgfe,huphoejcheuq
ijjghqxngbhuyyhoejhzenyj,hpxhoeuohUbuajuhTneuyxrguhpex yqhgxo
 gqjspougqhoejt,h“cx hlgxz,htuttu,hNhpxtjexzhjvmjfohoengbphoxhij
pjooyjqhoxquckhCx hlgxzhzeuohNhtjugkhExzhpmyjgqnqhnohzx yqhij!”

“I ohzeuohuhautx phtuofetuljshpejhnp!”hpunqhQxyyckh“Exzhfusja yychugq
fyjrjsychpejhoesxzphoejthoxbjoejs!kkk”

“Gx;hojyyhtj,htuttu,hzeuohqxhcx hoengl?”

“Zec,hzeuohnphxgjhoxhoengl?hEj”h(_ej_htjugohPjsbjchNrugxrnofe)h“tnbeo
uohugchontjheurjhijjghuhtuofehaxshugcxgjhnghS ppnu;hgxz,hxahfx spj,
ej’phgxohw nojhuhcx gbhtug,hponyyhNhlgxzhjrjshpxhtugchbnsyphzx yqhij
byuqhoxhtusschenthjrjghgxzkkkkhPej’phuhrjschgnfjhbnsy,hi ohej
tnbeokkkk”

“Xe,hgx,htuttu,hqxh gqjspougqhzec,haxshenthugqhaxshejshoxx,hgxoengb
ijoojshfx yqhijhntubngjqkhNghoejhanspohmyufj,hpej’phfeustngb!”hpunq
Lnooc,hfsxxlngbhxgjhxahejshangbjspk

“Ejhoenglphejshrjschuoosufonrj,hoeuo’phfjsoung,”huppjgojqhQxyyck

“Oejghejhxff mnjphp fehuhmxpnonxghnghpxfnjochoeuohejheuphgxhgjjqhox
yxxlhaxshjnoejshaxso gjhxshmxpnonxghnghenphznajkhUyyhejhgjjqphnphu
bxxq,hpzjjohznaj—uhsjpoa yhxgjk”

“Zjyy,hznoehejshejhzx yqhfjsoungychijhsjpoa y,”hQxyychuppjgojqk

“Oensqyc,hoeuohpejhpex yqhyxrjhentkhUgqhpxhnohnphkkkhoeuohnp,hnohzx yq
ijhpxhpmyjgqnq!kkkhNhyxxlhaxszusqhoxhpjjngbhoejthfxtngbhx ohxahoej
axsjpo—ugqhjrjscoengbhpjooyjqkhNhpeuyyhpjjhuohxgfjhichoejnshjcjpkhN
pex yqhijhpxhqjynbeojq!hZeuohqxhcx hoengl,hQxyyc?”

“I ohqxg’ohjvfnojhcx spjyakhNo’phgxohuohuyyhoejhoengbhaxshcx hoxhij
jvfnojq,”hpunqhejshtxoejsk

“Xe,hN’thgxohjvfnojq,htuttukhNhaugfchejhznyyhtuljhejshughxaajshoxquck”

“Ue,hoeuo’phpxhposugbj,hexzhugqhzejghuhtughtuljphughxaajs!kkkhOejsjhnp
uhpxsohxahiussnjs,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjhno’phisxljghqxzg,”hpunqhQxyyc,
ptnyngbhmjgpnrjychugqhsjfuyyngbhejshmupohznoehPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Tuttu,hexzhqnqhmumuhtuljhcx hughxaajs?”hLnoochupljqhp qqjgyck

“Oejsjhzuphgxoengbhx ohxahoejhzuc,hnohzuphrjschpntmyj,”hugpzjsjqhoej
msngfjpp,hi ohejshaufjhijutjqhuyyhxrjshuohoejhsjfxyyjfonxgk

“Xe,hi ohexzhzuphno?hCx hyxrjqhent,hugczuc,hijaxsjhcx hzjsjhuyyxzjqhox
pmjul?”

Lnoochajyohuhmjf ynushmyjup sjhnghijngbhuiyjhgxzhoxhouylhoxhejshtxoejs
xghjw uyhojstphuix ohoexpjhw jponxgphxahp fehmusutx gohngojsjpohnghu
zxtug’phynajk

“Xahfx spjhNhqnq;hejheuqhfxtjhoxhpouchznoeh phnghoejhfx gosck”

“I ohexzhzuphnohpjooyjqhijozjjghcx ,htuttu?”

“Cx hntubngj,hNhqusjhpuc,hoeuohcx hngrjgojqhpxtjoengbhw nojhgjz?hNo’p
uyzucph. pohoejhputj:hnohzuphpjooyjqhichoejhjcjp,hichptnyjpkkkk”

“Exzhgnfjychcx hpunqhoeuo,htuttu!hNo’ph. pohichoejhjcjp,hichptnyjphoeuo
no’phqxgj,”hQxyychuppjgojqk

“I ohzeuohzxsqphqnqhejhpuc?”

“ZeuohqnqhLxpocuhpuchoxhcx ?”

“EjhzsxojhnohnghfeuylkhNohzuphzxgqjsa ykkkkhExzhyxgbhubxhnohpjjtp!”hpej
punqk

Ugqhoejhoesjjhzxtjghuyyhajyyhoxht pngbhxghoejhputjhoengbkhLnoochzuphoej
anspohoxhisjulhoejhpnyjgfjkhPejhsjtjtijsjqhuyyhoeuohyupohzngojshijaxsj
ejshtussnubj,hugqhejshmuppnxghaxshRsxgplck

“Oejsj’phxgjhoengbhkkkhoeuohxyqhyxrjhuaaunshxahRusjglu’p,”hpejhpunq,hu
guo suyhfeunghxahnqjuphisngbngbhejshoxhoenphmxngokh“Nhpex yqheurjhynljq
oxhpuchpxtjoengbhoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hoxhmsjmusjhentkhOejc’sjhuyy—uyy
tjg,hNhtjug,”hpejhuqqjq,h“uza yych.juyx phxrjshx shmupok”

“Gxohuyy,”hpunqhQxyyckh“Cx h. qbjhichcx shxzghe piugqkhNohtuljphent
tnpjsuiyjhjrjghgxzhoxhsjtjtijshRsxgplckhJe?hoeuo’phos j,hnpg’ohno?”

“Cjp,”hLnoochugpzjsjq,huhmjgpnrjhptnyjhnghejshjcjpk

“I ohNhsjuyychqxg’ohlgxz,”hoejhtxoejshm ohnghnghqjajgpjhxahejshtxoejsyc
fusjhxahejshqu beojs,h“zeuohoejsjhzuphnghcx shmupohoeuohfx yqhzxssc
ent?hOeuohRsxgplchmunqhcx huoojgonxgp—oeuoheummjgphoxhjrjschbnsyk”

“Xe,hcjp,hi ohzjhqnqg’ohtjughoeuo,”hLnoochpunq,hay pengbhuhynooyjk

“Gx,hyjohtjhpmjul,”hejshtxoejshzjgohxg,h“zec,hcx hcx spjyahzx yqhgxo
yjohtjheurjhuhouylhoxhRsxgplckhQxg’ohcx hsjtjtijs?”

“Xe,htuttu!”hpunqhLnooc,hznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahp aajsngbk

“Oejsj’phgxhljjmngbhcx hcx gbhmjxmyjhnghfejflhgxzuqucpkkkkhCx s
asnjgqpenmhfx yqhgxoheurjhbxgjhijcxgqhzeuohzuphp nouiyjkhNhpex yq
tcpjyaheurjhfuyyjqh mxghenthoxhjvmyunghentpjyakhI o,htchqusyngb,hno’p
gxohsnbeohaxshcx hoxhijhubnouojqkhMyjupjhsjtjtijshoeuo,hugqhfuyt
cx spjyak”

“N’thmjsajfoychfuyt,htutugk”

“ExzheummchnohzuphaxshLnoochoeuohUgguhfutjhoejg,”hpunqhQxyyc,h“ugqhexz
 geummchaxshejskhNoho sgjqhx ohw nojhoejhxmmxpnoj,”hpejhpunq,hpos flhic
ejshxzghnqjupkh“OejghUgguhzuphpxheummc,hugqhLnoochoex beohejspjya
 geummckhGxzhnohnph. pohoejhxmmxpnojkhNhxaojghoenglhxahejsk”

“Uhgnfjhmjspxghoxhoenglhuix o!hExssnq,hsjm ypnrjhzxtug—gxhejuso,”hpunq
ejshtxoejs,hzexhfx yqhgxohaxsbjohoeuohLnoocheuqhtussnjqhgxohRsxgplc,
i ohYjrngk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugohoxhouylhxahnohaxs?”hLnoochpunqhznoehuggxcugfjkh“N
gjrjshoenglhuix ohno,hugqhNhqxg’ohzugohoxhoenglhxahnokkkkhUgqhNhqxg’o
zugohoxhoenglhxahno,”hpejhpunq,hfuofengbhoejhpx gqhxahejshe piugq’p
zjyy-lgxzghpojmhxghoejhpojmphxahoejhojssufjk

“Zeuo’phoeuohcx hqxg’ohzugohoxhoenglhuix o?”hngw nsjqhYjrng,hfxtngb
xgoxhoejhojssufjk

I ohgxhxgjhugpzjsjqhent,hugqhejhqnqhgxohsjmjuohoejhw jponxgk

“N’thpxsschN’rjhisxljghnghxghcx shajtngngjhmusynutjgo,”hejhpunq,
yxxlngbhsx gqhxghjrjscxgjhqnpfxgojgojqyc,hugqhmjsfjnrngbhoeuohoejcheuq
ijjghouylngbhxahpxtjoengbhzenfehoejchzx yqhgxohouylhuix ohijaxsjhentk

AxshuhpjfxgqhejhajyohoeuohejhzuphpeusngbhoejhajjyngbhxahUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu,hrjvuonxghuohoejnshtulngbh.uthznoex ohzuojs,hugqhuyoxbjoejs
uohoejhx opnqjhPeofejsiuoplchjyjtjgokhEjhptnyjq,hexzjrjs,hugqhzjgoh m
oxhLnoock

“Zjyy,hexzhusjhcx ?”hejhupljqhejs,hyxxlngbhuohejshznoehoejhjvmsjppnxg
znoehzenfehjrjscxgjhyxxljqhuohejshgxzk

“Xe,hrjschzjyy,”hpunqhLnooc,hptnyngb,h“ugqhexzheurjhoengbphbxgjhznoe
cx ?”

“Oejhzubxgphejyqhoesjjhontjphupht fehuphoejhxyqhfusophqnqkhZjyy,husjhzj
bxngbhaxshoejhfenyqsjg?hN’rjhxsqjsjqhoejhexspjphoxhijhm ohngk”

“Zeuo!hcx hzugohoxhouljhLnoochnghoejhzubxgjooj?”hejshtxoejshpunq
sjmsxufea yyck

“Cjp,huohuhzuylngbhmufj,hmsngfjppk”

Yjrnghgjrjshfuyyjqhoejhmsngfjpph“tutug”huphtjghxaojghqxhfuyyhoejns
txoejsp-ng-yuz,hugqhoejhmsngfjpphqnpynljqhenphgxohqxngbhpxkhI ohoex be
ejhynljqhugqhsjpmjfojqhoejhmsngfjpp,hYjrnghfx yqhgxohfuyyhejshpx
znoex ohuhpjgpjhxahmsxaugngbhenphajjyngbhaxshenphqjuqhtxoejsk

“Fxtjhznoeh p,htutug,”hpunqhLnoock

“Nhqxg’ohynljhoxhpjjhp fehntms qjgfjk”

“Zjyy,hN’yyhzuylhoejg,hN’thpxhzjyyk”hLnoochbxoh mhugqhzjgohoxhejs
e piugqhugqhoxxlhenpheugqk

“Cx htuchijhzjyy,hi ohjrjscoengbhnghtxqjsuonxg,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Zjyy,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hnphoejh.uthqxgj?”hpunqhYjrng,hptnyngbhox
UbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hugqhoscngbhoxhfejjshejsh mkh“Nphnohuyyhsnbeohnghoej
gjzhzuc?”

“Nhp mmxpjhno’phuyyhsnbeokhAxshx shgxonxgphno’phixnyjqhoxxhyxgbk”

“No’yyhijhuyyhoejhijoojs,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hnohzxg’ohtnyqjz,hjrjg
oex behx shnfjheuphijb ghoxhoeuzhuysjuqc,hpxhoeuohzj’rjhgxhfxxyhfjyyus
oxhpoxsjhno,”hpunqhLnooc,huohxgfjhqnrngngbhejshe piugq’phtxonrj,hugq
uqqsjppngbhoejhxyqhex pjljjmjshznoehoejhputjhajjyngb;h“i ohcx s
mnflyj’phpxhbxxq,hoeuohtuttuhpucphpejhgjrjshoupojqhugchynljhno,”hpej
uqqjq,hptnyngb,hugqhm oongbhejshljsfenjahposunbeok

UbuajuhTneuyxrguhyxxljqhugbsnychuohLnoock

“Cx hgjjqg’ohoschoxhfxgpxyjhtj,htnposjppkhNhgjjqhxgychoxhyxxlhuohcx 
znoehent,hugqhNhajjyheummc,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpxtjoengbhnghoejhsx be
autnynusnochxahoeuoh_znoehent_hox fejqhLnoock

“Fxtjhuyxgbhznoeh phoxhyxxlhaxsht pesxxtp,hcx hznyyhpexzh phoejhijpo
myufjpk”hUbuajuhTneuyxrguhptnyjqhugqhpexxlhejshejuq,huphoex behoxhpuc:
“Nhpex yqhynljhoxhijhugbschznoehcx hoxx,hi ohNhfug’ok”

“Qxhno,hmyjupj,hichtchsjfjnmo,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjpp;h“m ohpxtjhmumjshxrjs
oejh.ut,hugqhtxnpojghnohznoehuhynooyjhs t,hugqhznoex ohjrjghnfj,hno
znyyhgjrjshbxhtnyqjzck”


Feumojsh3

Lnoochzuphmusonf yusychbyuqhxahuhfeugfjhxahijngbhuyxgjhznoehejs
e piugq,haxshpejheuqhgxonfjqhoejhpeuqjhxahtxsonanfuonxghoeuoheuqhmuppjq
xrjshenphaufj—uyzucphpxhw nflhoxhsjayjfohjrjschajjyngb—uohoejhtxtjgo
zejghejheuqhfxtjhxgoxhoejhojssufjhugqhupljqhzeuohoejchzjsjhouylngbhxa,
ugqheuqhbxohgxhugpzjsk

Zejghoejcheuqhpjohxaahxghaxxohuejuqhxahoejhxoejsp,hugqheuqhfxtjhx ohxa
pnbeohxahoejhex pjhxgoxhoejhijuojghq pochsxuq,htusljqhznoehs pochzejjyp
ugqhpmsnglyjqhznoehbsungphxahfxsg,hpejhfy gbhaupojshoxhenphusthugq
msjppjqhnohfyxpjshoxhejskhEjheuqhw nojhaxsbxoojghoejhtxtjgousc
 gmyjupugohntmsjppnxg,hugqhuyxgjhznoehejshejhajyo,hgxzhoeuohoejhoex beo
xahejshummsxufengbhtxoejsexxqhzuphgjrjshaxshuhtxtjgohuipjgohasxthenp
tngq,huhgjzhugqhqjynfnx phiynpp,hw nojhm sjhasxthuyyhuyyxchxahpjgpj,hng
oejhijngbhgjushoxhoejhzxtughejhyxrjqkhOejsjhzuphgxhgjjqhxahpmjjfe,hcjo
ejhyxgbjqhoxhejushoejhpx gqhxahejshrxnfj,hzenfehynljhejshjcjpheuq
feugbjqhpngfjhpejheuqhijjghznoehfenyqkhNghejshrxnfj,huphnghejshjcjp,
oejsjhzuphoeuohpxaogjpphugqhbsurnochzenfehnphax gqhnghmjxmyj
fxgong uyychfxgfjgosuojqhxghpxtjhfejsnpejqhm sp nok

“Pxhcx ’sjhgxohonsjq?hYjughtxsjhxghtj,”hpunqhejk

“Gx,hN’thpxhbyuqhxahuhfeugfjhxahijngbhuyxgjhznoehcx ,hugqhNht pohxzg,
oex behN’theummchznoehoejt,hNhqxhsjbsjohx shzngojshjrjgngbphuyxgjk”

“Oeuohzuphbxxq,hi ohoenphnphjrjghijoojskhIxoehusjhijoojs,”hejhpunq,
pw jjdngbhejsheugqk

“Qxhcx hlgxzhzeuohzjhzjsjhouylngbhuix ohzejghcx hfutjhng?”

“Uix oh.ut?”

“Xe,hcjp,huix oh.uthoxx;hi ohuaojszusqp,huix ohexzhtjghtuljhxaajspk”

“Ue!”hpunqhYjrng,hynpojgngbhtxsjhoxhoejhpx gqhxahejshrxnfjhoeughoxhoej
zxsqphpejhzuphpucngb,hugqhuyyhoejhzenyjhmucngbhuoojgonxghoxhoejhsxuq,
zenfehmuppjqhgxzhoesx behoejhaxsjpo,hugqhurxnqngbhmyufjphzejsjhpej
tnbeohtuljhuhauypjhpojmk

“Ugqhuix ohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhRusjglukhCx ’rjhgxonfjq?kkkhN’thrjsc
ugvnx phaxshno,”hpejhzjgohxgkh“Zeuohqxhcx hoenglhuix ohno?”hUgqhpej
mjjmjqhngoxhenphaufjk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohoxhoengl,”hYjrnghugpzjsjq,hptnyngbkh“Pjsbjchpjjtp
rjschposugbjhoxhtjhnghoeuohzuckhNhoxyqhcx ,hcx hlgxzkkkk”

“Cjp,hoeuohejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehoeuohbnsyhzexhqnjqkkkk”

“OeuohzuphzejghNhzuphuhfenyq;hNhlgxzhuix ohnohasxthejuspuchugq
osuqnonxgkhNhsjtjtijshenthoejgkhEjhzuphzxgqjsa yychpzjjokhI ohN’rj
zuofejqhenthpngfjhznoehzxtjg;hejhnphasnjgqyc,hpxtjhxahoejthejhynljp,
i ohxgjhajjyphoeuohoxhenthoejc’sjhpntmychmjxmyj,hgxohzxtjgk”

“Cjp,hi ohgxzhznoehRusjgluhkkkhNhaugfchoejsj’phpxtjoengbkkkk”

“MjseumphoejsjhnpkkkkhI ohxgjheuphoxhlgxzhentkkkkhEj’phuhmjf ynus,
zxgqjsa yhmjspxgkhEjhynrjphuhpmnsno uyhynajhxgyckhEj’phoxxhm sj,hoxx
jvuyojqhuhguo sjk”

“Zec?hZx yqhoenphyxzjshent,hoejg?”

“Gx,hi ohej’phpxh pjqhoxhuhpmnsno uyhynajhoeuohejhfug’ohsjfxgfnyj
entpjyahznoehufo uyhaufo,hugqhRusjgluhnphuaojshuyyhaufok”

Yjrngheuqhbsxzgh pjqhichgxzhoxh oojsngbhenphoex beohixyqyc,hznoex o
oulngbhoejhosx iyjhxahfyxoengbhnohnghjvufohyugb ubjkhEjhlgjzhoeuohenp
znaj,hnghp fehtxtjgophxahyxrngbhojgqjsgjpphuphgxz,hzx yqh gqjspougq
zeuohejhtjugohoxhpuchasxthuhengo,hugqhpejhqnqh gqjspougqhentk

“Cjp,hi ohoejsj’phgxohpxht fehxahoeuohufo uyhaufohuix ohejshuphuix o
tjkhNhfughpjjhoeuohejhzx yqhgjrjsheurjhfusjqhaxshtjkhPejhnphuyoxbjoejs
pmnsno uyk”

“Xe,hgx,hejhnphpxhaxgqhxahcx ,hugqhNhuthuyzucphpxhbyuqhzejghtchmjxmyj
ynljhcx kkkk”

“Cjp,hej’phrjschgnfjhoxhtj;hi okkkk”

“No’phgxohuphnohzuphznoehmxxshGnlxyuchkkkhcx hsjuyychfusjqhaxshjufe
xoejs,”hYjrnghangnpejqkh“Zechgxohpmjulhxahent?”hejhuqqjqkh“Nhpxtjontjp
iyutjhtcpjyahaxshgxo;hnohjgqphnghxgj’phaxsbjoongbkhUe,hexzhojssniyjhugq
qjushejhzup!kkkhCjp,hzeuohzjsjhzjhouylngbhuix o?”hYjrnghpunq,huaojshu
mu pjk

“Cx hoenglhejhfug’ohauyyhnghyxrj,”hpunqhLnooc,hosugpyuongbhngoxhejshxzg
yugb ubjk

“No’phgxohpxht fehoeuohejhfug’ohauyyhnghyxrj,”hYjrnghpunq,hptnyngb,
“i ohejheuphgxohoejhzjulgjpphgjfjppusckkkkhN’rjhuyzucphjgrnjqhent,hugq
jrjghgxz,hzejghN’thpxheummc,hNhponyyhjgrchentk”

“Cx hjgrchenthaxshgxohijngbhuiyjhoxhauyyhnghyxrj?”

“NhjgrchenthaxshijngbhijoojshoeughN,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Ejhqxjphgxohynrjhaxs
entpjyakhEnphzexyjhynajhnphp ixsqnguojqhoxhenphq ockhUgqhoeuo’phzechej
fughijhfuythugqhfxgojgojqk”

“Ugqhcx ?”hLnoochupljq,hznoehughnsxgnfuyhugqhyxrngbhptnyjk

Pejhfx yqhgjrjsheurjhjvmyungjqhoejhfeunghxahoex beohoeuohtuqjhejs
ptnyj;hi ohoejhyupohynglhnghnohzuphoeuohejshe piugq,hnghjvuyongbhenp
isxoejshugqhuiupngbhentpjya,hzuphgxohw nojhpngfjsjkhLnoochlgjzhoeuo
oenphngpngfjsnochfutjhasxthenphyxrjhaxshenphisxoejs,hasxthenphpjgpjhxa
peutjhuohijngbhoxxheummc,hugqhuixrjhuyyhasxthenph gayubbngbhfsurngbhox
ijhijoojs—pejhyxrjqhnohnghent,hugqhpxhpejhptnyjqk

“Ugqhcx ?hZeuohusjhcx hqnppuonpanjqhznoe?”hpejhupljq,hznoehoejhputj
ptnyjk

Ejshqnpijynjahnghenphpjya-qnppuonpaufonxghqjynbeojqhent,hugq
 gfxgpfnx pychejhosnjqhoxhqsuzhejshngoxhbnrngbh oojsugfjhoxhoejhbsx gqp
xahejshqnpijynjak

“Nhutheummc,hi ohqnppuonpanjqhznoehtcpjyakkkk”hejhpunqk

“Zec,hexzhfughcx hijhqnppuonpanjqhznoehcx spjyahnahcx husjheummc?”

“Zjyy,hexzhpeuyyhNhpuc?kkkhNghtchejusohNhsjuyychfusjhaxshgxoengb
zeuojrjshi ohoeuohcx hpex yqhgxohpo tiyj—pjj?hXe,hi ohsjuyychcx 
t pog’ohplnmhuix ohynljhoeuo!”hejhfsnjq,hisjulngbhxaahoxhpfxyqhejshaxs
oxxhubnyjhuhtxrjtjgohnghpojmmngbhxrjshuhisugfehoeuohyuchnghoejhmuoek
“I ohzejghNhoenglhuix ohtcpjya,hugqhfxtmusjhtcpjyahznoehxoejsp,
jpmjfnuyychznoehtchisxoejs,hNhajjyhN’thuhmxxshfsjuo sjk”

“I ohnghzeuohzuc?”hLnoochm sp jqhznoehoejhputjhptnyjkh“Qxg’ohcx hoxx
zxslhaxshxoejsp?hZeuohuix ohcx shfx-xmjsuonrjhpjooyjtjgo,hugqhcx shzxsl
xghoejhjpouoj,hugqhcx shixxl?kkk”

“Xe,hi ohNhajjy,hugqhmusonf yusych. pohgxz—no’phcx shau yo,”hejhpunq,
msjppngbhejsheugq—“oeuohuyyhoeuohqxjpg’ohfx gokhNhqxhnohnghuhzuc
euyaejusojqyckhNahNhfx yqhfusjhaxshuyyhoeuohuphNhfusjhaxshcx !kkk
Ngpojuqhxahoeuo,hNhqxhnohnghoejpjhqucphynljhuhouplhoeuohnphpjohtjk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohzx yqhcx hpuchuix ohmumu?”hupljqhLnoockh“Nphejhuhmxxs
fsjuo sjhoejg,huphejhqxjphgxoengbhaxshoejhm iynfhbxxq?”

“Ej?—gx!hI ohoejghxgjht poheurjhoejhpntmynfnoc,hoej
posunbeoaxszusqgjpp,hoejhbxxqgjpphxahcx shauoejs:hugqhNheurjg’ohbxo
oeuokhNhqxhgxoengb,hugqhNhasjohuix ohnokhNo’phuyyhcx shqxngbkhIjaxsj
oejsjhzuphcx —ugqh_oenp_hoxx,”hejhuqqjqhznoehuhbyugfjhoxzusqphejshzunpo
oeuohpejh gqjspoxxq—“Nhm ohuyyhtchjgjsbnjphngoxhzxsl;hgxzhNhfug’o,hugq
N’thupeutjq;hNhqxhnoh. pohuphoex behnohzjsjhuhouplhpjohtj,hN’t
msjojgqngbkkkk”

“Zjyy,hi ohzx yqhcx hynljhoxhfeugbjhoenphtng ojhznoehPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe?”hpunqhLnoockh“Zx yqhcx hynljhoxhqxhoenphzxslhaxshoej
bjgjsuyhbxxq,hugqhoxhyxrjhoejhouplhpjohcx ,huphejhqxjp,hugqhgxoengb
jypj?”

“Xahfx spjhgxo,”hpunqhYjrngkh“I ohN’thpxheummchoeuohNhqxg’oh gqjspougq
ugcoengbkhPxhcx hoenglhej’yyhtuljhejshughxaajshoxquc?”hejhuqqjqhuaojshu
isnjahpnyjgfjk

“Nhoenglhpx,hugqhNhqxg’ohoenglhpxkhXgyc,hN’thuza yychugvnx phaxshnok
Ejsj,hzunohuhtng ojk”hPejhpoxxmjqhqxzghugqhmnfljqhuhznyqhfutxtnyjhuo
oejhjqbjhxahoejhmuoekh“Fxtj,hfx go:hejhqxjphmsxmxpj,hejhqxjpg’o,”hpej
punq,hbnrngbhenthoejhayxzjsk

“Ejhqxjp,hejhqxjpg’o,”hpunqhYjrng,hojusngbhxaahoejhzenojhmjouypk

“Gx,hgx!”hLnooc,hpguofengbhuohenpheugq,hpoxmmjqhentkhPejheuqhijjg
zuofengbhenphangbjsphznoehngojsjpokh“Cx hmnfljqhxaahozxk”

“Xe,hi ohpjj,hoenphynooyjhxgjhpeug’ohfx gohoxhtuljh m,”hpunqhYjrng,
ojusngbhxaahuhynooyjheuya-bsxzghmjouykh“Ejsj’phoejhzubxgjoojhxrjsoulngb
 pk”

“Usjg’ohcx honsjq,hLnooc?”hfuyyjqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Gxohnghoejhyjupok”

“Nahcx husjhcx hfughbjohng,huphoejhexspjphusjhw njohugqhzuylngbk”

I ohnohzuphgxohzxsoehzenyjhoxhbjohng,hoejchzjsjhw nojhgjushoejhmyufj,
ugqhuyyhzuyljqhxghoxbjoejsk


Feumojsh4

Rusjglu,hznoehejshzenojhljsfenjahxghejshiyuflheuns,hp ssx gqjqhichoej
fenyqsjg,hbunychugqhbxxq-e txsjqychyxxlngbhuaojshoejt,hugqhuohoejhputj
ontjhrnpniychjvfnojqhuohoejhmxppninynochxahsjfjnrngbhuhqjfyusuonxghasxt
oejhtughpejhfusjqhaxs,hzuphrjschuoosufonrjkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuyljq
ijpnqjhejs,hugqhgjrjshyjaohxaahuqtnsngbhejskhYxxlngbhuohejs,hej
sjfuyyjqhuyyhoejhqjynbeoa yhoengbphejheuqhejusqhasxthejshynmp,huyyhoej
bxxqhejhlgjzhuix ohejs,hugqhijfutjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhfxgpfnx phoeuohoej
ajjyngbhejheuqhaxshejshzuphpxtjoengbhpmjfnuyhoeuohejheuqhajyohyxgb,
yxgbhubx,hugqhxgychxgfj,hnghenphjusychcx oekhOejhajjyngbhxaheummngjpp
nghijngbhgjushejshfxgong uyychbsjz,hugqhuohyupohsjufejqhp fehuhmxngo
oeuo,huphejhm ohuhe bj,hpyjgqjs-pouyljqhubusnfha gb phnghejshiupljo,hej
yxxljqhposunbeohngoxhejshaufj,hugqhgxonfngbhoejhay pehxahbyuqhugq
uyustjqhjvfnojtjgohoeuohxrjspmsjuqhejshaufj,hejhzuphfxga pjqhentpjya,
ugqhptnyjqhoxhejshnghpnyjgfjhuhptnyjhoeuohpunqhoxxht fek

“Nahpx,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,h“Nhx beohoxhoenglhnohxrjshugqhtuljh mhtc
tngq,hugqhgxohbnrjhzuchynljhuhixchoxhoejhntm ypjhxahuhtxtjgok”

“N’thbxngbhoxhmnflhichtcpjyahumusohasxthuyyhoejhsjpo,hxshjypjhtc
jaaxsophznyyhtuljhgxhpexz,”hejhpunq,hugqhejhyjaohoejhjqbjhxahoejhaxsjpo
zejsjhoejchzjsjhzuylngbhxghyxzhpnylchbsupphijozjjghxyqhinsfehosjjp
pougqngbhaushumuso,hugqhzjgohtxsjhngoxhoejhejusohxahoejhzxxq,hzejsj
ijozjjghoejhzenojhinsfehos glphoejsjhzjsjhbsuchos glphxahupmjghugqhqusl
i pejphxaheudjykhZuylngbhpxtjhaxsochmufjphuzuc,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
lgxzngbhejhzuphx ohxahpnbeo,hpoxxqhponyyhijengqhuhi pechpmngqyj-osjjhng
a yyhayxzjshznoehnophsxpchsjqhfuolngpkhNohzuphmjsajfoychponyyhuyyhsx gq
entkhXgychxrjsejuqhnghoejhinsfejph gqjshzenfehejhpoxxq,hoejhaynjp,hynlj
uhpzusthxahijjp,hi ddjqh gfjupngbyc,hugqhasxthontjhoxhontjhoej
fenyqsjg’phrxnfjphzjsjhayxuojqhufsxpphoxhentkhUyyhuohxgfjhejhejusq,hgxo
aushasxthoejhjqbjhxahoejhzxxq,hoejhpx gqhxahRusjglu’phfxgosuyoxhrxnfj,
fuyyngbhBsnpeu,hugqhuhptnyjhxahqjynbeohmuppjqhxrjshPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’p
aufjkhFxgpfnx phxahoenphptnyj,hejhpexxlhenphejuqhqnpummsxrngbychuohenp
xzghfxgqnonxg,hugqhoulngbhx ohuhfnbus,hejhijbughynbeongbhnokhAxshuhyxgb
zenyjhejhfx yqhgxohbjohuhtuofehoxhynbeohubungpohoejhos glhxahuhinsfe
osjjkhOejhpxaohpfuyjphxahoejhzenojhiuslhs iijqhxaahoejhmexpmexs p,hugq
oejhynbeohzjgohx okhUohyupohxgjhxahoejhtuofejphi sgjq,hugqhoejhasubsugo
fnbushptxlj,hexrjsngbh gfjsoungychnghayuo,hznqjhfxnyp,hposjofejqhuzuc
axszusqphugqh mzusqphxrjshuhi peh gqjshoejhxrjseugbngbhisugfejphxahu
insfehosjjkhZuofengbhoejhposjulhxahptxlj,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuyljq
bjgoychxg,hqjynijsuongbhxghenphmxpnonxgk

“Zechgxo?”hejhoex beokh“Nahnohzjsjhxgychuhmuppngbhaugfchxshuhmuppnxg,
nahnohzjsjhxgychoenphuoosufonxg—oenpht o uyhuoosufonxgh(Nhfughfuyyhnohu
_t o uy_huoosufonxg),hi ohnahNhajyohoeuohnohzuphnghfxgosuqnfonxghznoe
oejhzexyjhijgohxahtchynaj—nahNhajyohoeuohnghbnrngbhzuchoxhoenp
uoosufonxghNhpex yqhijhauypjhoxhtchrxfuonxghugqhtchq ochkkkhi ohno’p
gxohpxkhOejhxgychoengbhNhfughpuchubungpohnohnphoeuo,hzejghNhyxpohTusnj,
NhpunqhoxhtcpjyahoeuohNhzx yqhsjtunghaunoea yhoxhejshtjtxsckhOeuo’phoej
xgychoengbhNhfughpuchubungpohtchajjyngbkkkkhOeuo’phuhbsjuohoengb,”
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehpunqhoxhentpjya,hajjyngbhuohoejhputjhontjhoeuohoenp
fxgpnqjsuonxgheuqhgxohoejhpynbeojpohntmxsougfjhaxshenthmjspxguyyc,hi o
zx yqhxgychmjseumphqjosufohasxthenphsxtugonfhfeusufojshnghoejhjcjphxa
xoejspkh“I ohumusohasxthoeuo,hexzjrjsht fehNhpjusfejq,hNhpex yqhgjrjs
angqhugcoengbhoxhpuchubungpohtchajjyngbkhNahNhzjsjhfexxpngbhic
fxgpnqjsuonxgphxahp nouinynochuyxgj,hNhfx yqhgxoheurjhax gqhugcoengb
ijoojsk”

Exzjrjshtugchzxtjghugqhbnsyphejhoex beohxahzexthejhlgjz,hejhfx yqhgxo
oenglhxahuhbnsyhzexh gnojqhoxhp fehuhqjbsjjhuyy,hmxpnonrjychuyy,hoej
w uynonjphejhzx yqhznpehoxhpjjhnghenphznajkhPejheuqhuyyhoejhfeusthugq
asjpegjpphxahcx oe,hi ohpejhzuphgxohuhfenyq;hugqhnahpejhyxrjqhent,hpej
yxrjqhenthfxgpfnx pychuphuhzxtughx beohoxhyxrj;hoeuohzuphxgjhoengbk
Ugxoejshmxngo:hpejhzuphgxohxgychaushasxthijngbhzxsyqyc,hi oheuqhug
 gtnpouluiyjhqnpoupojhaxshzxsyqychpxfnjoc,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhpej
lgjzhoejhzxsyq,hugqheuqhuyyhoejhzucphxahuhzxtughxahoejhijpohpxfnjoc,
zenfehzjsjhuipxy ojychjppjgonuyhoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phfxgfjmonxghxa
oejhzxtughzexhzuphoxhpeusjhenphynajkhOensqyc:hpejhzuphsjynbnx p,hugq
gxohynljhuhfenyq,h gfxgpfnx pychsjynbnx phugqhbxxq,huphLnooc,haxs
jvutmyj,hzup,hi ohejshynajhzuphax gqjqhxghsjynbnx phmsngfnmyjpkhJrjghng
osnayngbhtuoojsp,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehax gqhnghejshuyyhoeuohejhzugojqhng
enphznaj:hpejhzuphmxxshugqhuyxgjhnghoejhzxsyq,hpxhpejhzx yqhgxohisngb
znoehejshuhtupphxahsjyuonxgphugqhoejnshngay jgfjhngoxhejshe piugq’p
ex pj,huphejhpuzhgxzhnghLnooc’phfupjkhPejhzx yqhxzjhjrjscoengbhoxhejs
e piugq,hzenfehzuphzeuohejheuqhuyzucphqjpnsjqhoxxhaxshenpha o sjhautnyc
ynajkhUgqhoenphbnsy,hzexh gnojqhuyyhoejpjhw uynonjp,hyxrjqhentkhEjhzup
uhtxqjpohtug,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohejymhpjjngbhnokhUgqhejhyxrjqhejskhOejsj
zuphxgjhfxgpnqjsuonxghubungpohno—enphubjkhI ohejhfutjhxahuhyxgb-ynrjq
autnyc,hejheuqhgxohuhpngbyjhbsucheuns,hgxhxgjhzx yqheurjhouljghenthaxs
axsoc,hugqhejhsjtjtijsjqhRusjglu’phpucngbhoeuohnohzuphxgychnghS ppnu
oeuohtjghxahanaochoex beohoejtpjyrjphxyq,hugqhoeuohnghAsugfjhuhtughxa
anaochfxgpnqjsphentpjyah_qugphyuhaxsfjhqjhy’âbj_,hzenyjhuhtughxahaxsoc
nph_ gh.j gjhexttj_khI ohzeuohqnqhoejhtjsjhsjflxgngbhxahcjusphtuoojs
zejghejhajyohuphcx gbhnghejusohuphejheuqhijjghozjgochcjusphubx?hZuphno
gxohcx oehoxhajjyhuphejhajyohgxz,hzejghfxtngbhasxthoejhxoejshpnqjhox
oejhjqbjhxahoejhzxxqhejhpuzhnghoejhbyxzngbhynbeohxahoejhpyugongb
p gijutphoejhbsufnx phanb sjhxahRusjgluhnghejshcjyyxzhbxzghznoehejs
iupljo,hzuylngbhynbeoychichoejhos glhxahughxyqhinsfehosjj,hugqhzejg
oenphntmsjppnxghxahoejhpnbeohxahRusjgluhiyjgqjqhpxheustxgnx pychznoe
oejhiju ochxahoejhrnjz,hxahoejhcjyyxzhxuoanjyqhycngbhiuoejqhnghoej
pyugongbhp gpengj,hugqhijcxgqhnohoejhqnpougohugfnjgohaxsjpohayjfljq
znoehcjyyxzhugqhtjyongbhngoxhoejhiy jhxahoejhqnpougfj?hEnphejuso
oesxiijqh.xcx pyckhUhpxaojgjqhajjyngbhfutjhxrjshentkhEjhajyohoeuohej
euqhtuqjh mhenphtngqkhRusjglu,hzexheuqh. pohfsx fejqhqxzghoxhmnflhu
t pesxxt,hsxpjhznoehuhp mmyjhtxrjtjgohugqhyxxljqhsx gqkhAyngbngbhuzuc
oejhfnbus,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehuqrugfjqhznoehsjpxy ojhpojmphoxzusqphejsk


Feumojsh5

“RusrusuhUgqsjjrgu,hzejghNhzuphrjschcx gb,hNhpjohijaxsjhtcpjyahoej
nqjuyhxahoejhzxtughNhyxrjqhugqhpex yqhijheummchoxhfuyyhtchznajkhNheurj
ynrjqhoesx behuhyxgbhynaj,hugqhgxzhaxshoejhanspohontjhNheurjhtjohzeuohN
px beo—nghcx khNhyxrjhcx ,hugqhxaajshcx htcheugqk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphpucngbhoenphoxhentpjyahzenyjhejhzuphojghmufjp
asxthRusrusukhLgjjyngbhqxzg,hznoehejsheugqphxrjshoejht pesxxtphoxhb usq
oejthasxthBsnpeu,hpejhzuphfuyyngbhynooyjhTupeuk

“Fxtjhejsj,hynooyjhxgjp!hOejsjhusjhpxhtugc!”hpejhzuphpucngbhnghejs
pzjjo,hqjjmhrxnfjk

PjjngbhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehummsxufengb,hpejhqnqhgxohbjoh mhugqhqnqhgxo
feugbjhejshmxpnonxg,hi ohjrjscoengbhoxyqhenthoeuohpejhajyohenphmsjpjgfj
ugqhzuphbyuqhxahnok

“Zjyy,hqnqhcx hangqhpxtj?”hpejhupljqhasxth gqjshoejhzenojhljsfenja,
o sgngbhejsheugqpxtj,hbjgoychptnyngbhaufjhoxhentk

“Gxohxgj,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“Qnqhcx ?”

Pejhqnqhgxohugpzjs,hi pchznoehoejhfenyqsjghzexhoesxgbjqhuix ohejsk

“Oeuohxgjhoxx,hgjushoejhoznb,”hpejhmxngojqhx ohoxhynooyjhTupeuhuhynooyj
a gb p,hpmynohngheuyahufsxpphnophsxpchfumhichoejhqschbsupphasxth gqjs
zenfehnohoes pohnopjyakhRusjgluhbxoh mhzenyjhTupeuhmnfljqhoejha gb p,
isjulngbhnohngoxhozxhzenojheuyrjpkh“Oenphisngbphiuflhtchfenyqexxq,”hpej
uqqjq,htxrngbhumusohasxthoejhfenyqsjghijpnqjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

OejchzuyljqhxghaxshpxtjhpojmphnghpnyjgfjkhRusjgluhpuzhoeuohejhzugojqhox
pmjul;hpejhb jppjqhxahzeuo,hugqhajyohaungohznoeh.xchugqhmugnfkhOejcheuq
zuyljqhpxhaushuzuchoeuohgxhxgjhfx yqhejushoejthgxz,hi ohponyyhejhqnq
gxohijbnghoxhpmjulkhNohzx yqheurjhijjghijoojshaxshRusjgluhoxhijhpnyjgok
Uaojshuhpnyjgfjhnohzx yqheurjhijjghjupnjshaxshoejthoxhpuchzeuohoejc
zugojqhoxhpuchoeughuaojshouylngbhuix oht pesxxtpkhI ohubungpohejshxzg
znyy,huphnohzjsjhuffnqjgouyyc,hRusjgluhpunq:

“Pxhcx hax gqhgxoengb?hNghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhzxxqhoejsjhusjhuyzucp
ajzjs,hoex bek”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehpnbejqhugqhtuqjhgxhugpzjskhEjhzup
uggxcjqhoeuohpejheuqhpmxljghuix ohoejht pesxxtpkhEjhzugojqhoxhisngbhejs
iuflhoxhoejhanspohzxsqphpejheuqh oojsjqhuix ohejshfenyqexxq;hi ohuaojs
uhmu pjhxahpxtjhyjgboe,huphoex behubungpohenphxzghznyy,hejhtuqjhug
xipjsruonxghnghsjpmxgpjhoxhejshyupohzxsqpk

“Nheurjhejusqhoeuohoejhzenojhjqniyjha gb pjphusjhax gqhmsngfnmuyychuo
oejhjqbjhxahoejhzxxq,hoex behNhfug’ohojyyhoejthumusok”

Pxtjhtng ojphtxsjhmuppjq,hoejchtxrjqhponyyha soejshuzuchasxthoej
fenyqsjg,hugqhzjsjhw nojhuyxgjkhRusjglu’phejusohoesxiijqhpxhoeuohpej
ejusqhnohijuongb,hugqhajyohoeuohpejhzupho sgngbhsjqhugqhmuyjhugqhsjq
ubungk

OxhijhoejhznajhxahuhtughynljhLxdgnpejr,huaojshejshmxpnonxghznoehTuqutj
Pouey,hzuphoxhejshntubnguonxghoejhejnbeohxaheummngjppkhIjpnqjp,hpejhzup
uytxpohfjsounghoeuohpejhzuphnghyxrjhznoehentkhUgqhoenphtxtjgohnohzx yq
eurjhoxhijhqjfnqjqkhPejhajyohasnbeojgjqkhPejhqsjuqjqhixoehenphpmjulngb
ugqhenphgxohpmjulngbk

Gxzhxshgjrjshnoht pohijhpunq—oeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehajyohoxxk
Jrjscoengbhnghoejhjvmsjppnxg,hoejhay pejqhfejjlphugqhoejhqxzgfupohjcjp
xahRusjgluhijosucjqhuhmunga yhp pmjgpjkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehpuzhnohugq
ajyohpxsschaxshejskhEjhajyohjrjghoeuohoxhpuchgxoengbhgxzhzx yqhijhu
pynbeohoxhejskhSumnqychnghenphxzghtngqhejhsughxrjshuyyhoejhusb tjgophng
p mmxsohxahenphqjfnpnxgkhEjhjrjghpunqhxrjshoxhentpjyahoejhzxsqphng
zenfehejhtjugohoxhm ohenphxaajs,hi ohngpojuqhxahoexpjhzxsqp,hpxtj
 oojsych gjvmjfojqhsjayjfonxghoeuohxff ssjqhoxhenthtuqjhenthupl:

“Zeuohnphoejhqnaajsjgfjhijozjjghoejh‘insfe’ht pesxxthugqhoejh‘zenoj’
t pesxxt?”

Rusjglu’phynmphw nrjsjqhznoehjtxonxghuphpejhugpzjsjq:

“Nghoejhoxmhmusohoejsjhnphpfusfjychugchqnaajsjgfj,hno’phnghoejhpouylk”

Ugqhuphpxxghuphoejpjhzxsqphzjsjh oojsjq,hixoehejhugqhpejhajyohoeuohno
zuphxrjs,hoeuohzeuohzuphoxheurjhijjghpunqhzx yqhgxohijhpunq;hugqhoejns
jtxonxg,hzenfeheuqh mhoxhoejghijjghfxgong uyychbsxzngbhtxsjhngojgpj,
ijbughoxhp ipnqjk

“Oejhinsfeht pesxxt’phpouylhp bbjpophuhquslhtug’phfenghuaojshozxhqucp
znoex ohpeurngb,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hpmjulngbhw nojhfuytychgxzk

“Cjp,hoeuo’phos j,”hugpzjsjqhRusjgluhptnyngb,hugqh gfxgpfnx pychoej
qnsjfonxghxahoejnshzuylhfeugbjqkhOejchijbughoxho sghoxzusqphoej
fenyqsjgkhRusjgluhajyohixoehpxsjhugqhupeutjq;huohoejhputjhontjhpejheuq
uhpjgpjhxahsjynjak

Zejghejheuqhbxohextjhubunghugqhzjgohxrjshoejhzexyjhp i.jfo,hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehoex beohenphmsjrnx phqjfnpnxgheuqhijjghuhtnpouljghxgjkhEj
fx yqhgxohijhauypjhoxhoejhtjtxschxahTusnjk

“Bjgoyc,hfenyqsjg,hbjgoyc!”hYjrnghpex ojqhw nojhugbsnychoxhoej
fenyqsjg,hpougqngbhijaxsjhenphznajhoxhmsxojfohejshzejghoejhfsxzqhxa
fenyqsjghayjzhznoehpesnjlphxahqjynbeohoxhtjjohoejtk

IjengqhoejhfenyqsjghPjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhRusjgluhzuyljqhx ohxahoej
zxxqkhLnoocheuqhgxhgjjqhoxhuplhRusjglu;hpejhpuzhasxthoejhfuythugq
pxtjzeuohfsjpoauyyjghaufjphxahixoehoeuohejshmyugpheuqhgxohfxtjhxaak

“Zjyy?”hejshe piugqhw jponxgjqhejshuphoejchzjsjhbxngbhextjhubungk

“Nohqxjpg’ohinoj,”hpunqhLnooc,hejshptnyjhugqhtuggjshxahpmjulngb
sjfuyyngbhejshauoejs,huhynljgjpphYjrnghxaojghgxonfjqhznoehmyjup sjk

“Exzhqxjpg’ohinoj?”

“N’yyhpexzhcx ,”hpejhpunq,houlngbhejshe piugq’pheugq,hynaongbhnohoxhejs
tx oe,hugqh. pohaungoychis pengbhnohznoehfyxpjqhynmpkh“Ynljhuhlnpphxghu
msnjpo’pheugqk”

“Zenfehqnqg’ohnohinojhznoe?”hejhpunq,hyu bengbk

“IxoekhI ohnohpex yqheurjhijjghynljhoenpkkkk”

“Oejsjhusjhpxtjhmjupugophfxtngbkkkk”

“Xe,hoejchqnqg’ohpjjk”


Feumojsh6

Q sngbhoejhontjhxahoejhfenyqsjg’phojuhoejhbsxzg- mhmjxmyjhpuohnghoej
iuyfxgchugqhouyljqhuphoex behgxoengbheuqheummjgjq,hoex behoejchuyy,
jpmjfnuyychPjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhRusjglu,hzjsjhrjschzjyyhuzusjhoeuo
oejsjheuqheummjgjqhughjrjgohzenfe,hoex behgjbuonrj,hzuphxahrjschbsjuo
ntmxsougfjkhOejchixoeheuqhoejhputjhajjyngb,hsuoejshynljhoeuohxahu
pfexxyixchuaojshughjvutnguonxg,hzenfeheuphyjaohenthnghoejhputjhfyupphxs
pe ohenthx ohxahoejhpfexxyhaxsjrjskhJrjscxgjhmsjpjgo,hajjyngbhoxxhoeuo
pxtjoengbheuqheummjgjq,houyljqhjubjsychuix ohjvosugjx php i.jfopkhYjrng
ugqhLnoochzjsjhmusonf yusycheummchugqhfxgpfnx phxahoejnshyxrjhoeuo
jrjgngbkhUgqhoejnsheummngjpphnghoejnshyxrjhpjjtjqhoxhntmychu
qnpubsjjuiyjhpy shxghoexpjhzexhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhajjyhoejhputjhugq
fx yqhgxo—ugqhoejchajyohuhmsnflhxahfxgpfnjgfjk

“Tuslhtchzxsqp,hUyjvugqjshznyyhgxohfxtj,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjppk

OeuohjrjgngbhoejchzjsjhjvmjfongbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxhfxtjhqxzghic
osung,hugqhoejhxyqhmsngfjheuqhzsnoojghoeuohmxppniychejhtnbeohfxtjhoxxk

“UgqhNhlgxzhzec,”hoejhmsngfjpphzjgohxg;h“ejhpucphoeuohcx gbhmjxmyj
x beohoxhijhyjaohuyxgjhaxshuhzenyjhuohanspok”

“I ohmumuheuphyjaoh phuyxgjkhZj’rjhgjrjshpjjghent,”hpunqhLnoock
“Ijpnqjp,hzj’sjhgxohcx gbhmjxmyj!—zj’sjhxyq,htussnjqhmjxmyjhichgxzk”

“Xgychnahejhqxjpg’ohfxtj,hNhpeuyyhpuchbxxq-icjhoxhcx hfenyqsjg,”hpunq
oejhmsngfjpp,hpnbengbhtx sga yyck

“Zeuohgxgpjgpj,htuttu!”hixoehoejhqu beojsphajyyh mxghejshuohxgfjk

“Exzhqxhcx hp mmxpjhejhnphajjyngb?hZec,hgxzkkkk”

Ugqhp qqjgychoejsjhzuphugh gjvmjfojqhw nrjshnghoejhmsngfjpp’phrxnfjk
Ejshqu beojsphzjsjhpnyjgo,hugqhyxxljqhuohxgjhugxoejskh“Tutughuyzucp
angqphpxtjoengbhoxhijhtnpjsuiyjhuix o,”hoejchpunqhnghoeuohbyugfjkhOejc
qnqhgxohlgxzhoeuoheummchuphoejhmsngfjpphzuphnghejshqu beojs’phex pj,
ugqh pja yhuphpejhajyohejspjyahoxhijhoejsj,hpejheuqhijjghjvosjtjyc
tnpjsuiyj,hixoehxghejshxzghuffx gohugqhejshe piugq’p,hjrjshpngfjhoejc
euqhtussnjqhoejnshyupohugqhaurxsnojhqu beojs,hugqhoejhxyqhextjheuqhijjg
yjaohjtmock

“Zeuohnphno,hUbuajuhTneuyxrgu?”hLnoochupljqhp qqjgychxahUbuaju
Tneuyxrgu,hzexhzuphpougqngbhznoehuhtcpojsnx phuns,hugqhuhaufjha yyhxa
tjugngbk

“Uix ohp mmjsk”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phsnbeo,”hpunqhQxyyc;h“cx hbxhugqhussugbjhuix ohno,hugq
N’yyhbxhugqhejushBsnpeuhsjmjuohenphyjppxg,hxshjypjhejhznyyheurjhgxoengb
qxgjhuyyhquck”

“Oeuo’phtchyjppxg!hGx,hQxyyc,hN’thbxngb,”hpunqhYjrng,h. tmngbh mk

Bsnpeu,hzexhzuphichgxzhuohuhenbehpfexxy,heuqhoxhbxhxrjshoejhyjppxgphxa
oejhojsthnghoejhp ttjshexynqucpkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hzexheuqhijjg
po qcngbhYuonghznoehejshpxghnghTxpfxzhijaxsj,heuqhtuqjhnohuhs yjhxg
fxtngbhoxhoejhYjrngp’hoxhbxhxrjshznoehent,huohyjupohxgfjhuhquc,hoej
txpohqnaanf yohyjppxgphxahYuonghugqhusnoetjonfkhYjrngheuqhxaajsjqhox
ouljhejshmyufj,hi ohoejhtxoejs,heurngbhxgfjhxrjsejusqhYjrng’phyjppxg,
ugqhgxonfngbhoeuohnohzuphgxohbnrjghjvufoychuphoejhojufejshnghTxpfxzheuq
bnrjghno,hpunqhsjpxy ojyc,hoex behznoeht fehjtiussupptjgohugqhugvnjoc
gxohoxhtxsonachYjrng,hoeuohoejcht pohljjmhposnfoychoxhoejhixxlhuphoej
ojufejsheuqhqxgj,hugqhoeuohpejheuqhijoojsh gqjsouljhnohubunghejspjyak
YjrnghzuphutudjqhixoehuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzex,hichgjbyjfongbhenp
q oc,hoesjzh mxghoejhtxoejshoejhp mjsrnpnxghxahpo qnjphxahzenfehpejheuq
gxhfxtmsjejgpnxg,hugqhuohoejhojufejsphaxshojufengbhoejhfenyqsjghpx
iuqyckhI ohejhmsxtnpjqhenphpnpojs-ng-yuzhoxhbnrjhoejhyjppxgphjvufoychup
pejhznpejqkhUgqhejhzjgohxghojufengbhBsnpeu,hgxohnghenphxzghzuc,hi ohic
oejhixxl,hugqhpxhoxxlhynooyjhngojsjpohnghno,hugqhxaojghaxsbxohoejhex s
xahoejhyjppxgkhPxhnoheuqhijjghoxquck

“Gx,hN’thbxngb,hQxyyc,hcx hpnohponyy,”hejhpunqkh“Zj’yyhqxhnohuyy
msxmjsyc,hynljhoejhixxlkhXgychzejghPonruhfxtjp,hugqhzjhbxhx ohpexxongb,
oejghzjhpeuyyheurjhoxhtnpphnok”

UgqhYjrnghzjgohoxhBsnpeuk

RusjgluhzuphpucngbhoejhputjhoengbhoxhLnoockhJrjghnghoejheummc,
zjyy-xsqjsjqhex pjexyqhxahoejhYjrngphRusjgluheuqhp ffjjqjqhnghtulngb
ejspjyah pja yk

“N’yyhpjjhoxhoejhp mmjs,hcx hpnohponyy,”hpejhpunq,hugqhbxoh mhoxhbxhox
UbuajuhTneuyxrguk

“Cjp,hcjp,htxpohynljychoejc’rjhgxohijjghuiyjhoxhbjohfenfljgpkhNahpx,
x spkkkk”

“UbuajuhTneuyxrguhugqhNhznyyhpjjhuix ohno,”hugqhRusjgluhrugnpejqhznoe
ejsk

“Zeuohuhgnfjhbnsy!”hpunqhoejhmsngfjppk

“Gxohgnfj,htutug;hpej’phughjvw npnojhbnsy;hoejsj’phgxhxgjhjypjhynlj
ejsk”

“Pxhcx husjhjvmjfongbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxquc?”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hjrnqjgoychgxohqnpmxpjqhoxhm sp jhoejhfxgrjspuonxghuix o
Rusjglukh“Nohzx yqhijhqnaanf yohoxhangqhozxhpxgp-ng-yuzhtxsjh gynlj
oeughcx sp,”hejhpunqhznoehuhp ioyjhptnyjkh“Xgjhuyyhtxrjtjgo,hxgyc
ynrngbhnghpxfnjoc,hynljhuhanpehnghzuojs;hoejhxoejshx shLxpocu,hynrjyc,
uyjso,hw nflhnghjrjscoengb,hi ohuphpxxghuphejhnphnghpxfnjoc,hejhjnoejs
pnglphngoxhumuoec,hxshpos bbyjphejymyjppychynljhuhanpehxghyugqk”

“Cjp,hej’phrjschejjqyjpp,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjpp,huqqsjppngbhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofekh“N’rjhijjghtjugngb,hngqjjq,hoxhuplhcx hoxhojyyhenthoeuo
no’phx ohxahoejhw jponxghaxshejs”h(pejhngqnfuojqhLnooc)h“oxhpouchejsj;
oeuohpejhmxpnonrjycht pohfxtjhoxhTxpfxzkhEjhouylphxahbjoongbhuhqxfoxs
qxzgkkkk”

“Tutug,hej’yyhqxhjrjscoengb;hejheuphubsjjqhoxhjrjscoengb,”hLnoochpunq,
ugbschznoehejshtxoejshaxshummjuyngbhoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehoxh. qbjhng
p fehuhtuoojsk

Nghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejnshfxgrjspuonxghoejchejusqhoejhpgxsongbhxahexspjp
ugqhoejhpx gqhxahzejjyphxghoejhbsurjykhQxyycheuqhgxohontjhoxhbjoh mhox
bxhugqhtjjohejshe piugq,hzejghasxthoejhzngqxzhxahoejhsxxthijyxz,hzejsj
Bsnpeuhzupheurngbhenphyjppxg,hYjrnghyjumjqhx ohugqhejymjqhBsnpeuhx o
uaojshentk

“No’phPonru!”hYjrnghpex ojqhasxth gqjshoejhiuyfxgckh“Zj’rjhangnpejq,
Qxyyc,hqxg’ohijhuasunq!”hejhuqqjq,hugqhpousojqhs ggngbhynljhuhixchox
tjjohoejhfussnubjk

“_Nphjuhnq,hj. p,hj. p,hj. p!_”hpex ojqhBsnpeu,hplnmmngbhuyxgbhoej
urjg jk

“Ugqhpxtjxgjhjypjhoxx!hMumu,hxahfx spj!”hfsnjqhYjrng,hpoxmmngbhuohoej
jgosugfjhxahoejhurjg jkh“Lnooc,hqxg’ohfxtjhqxzghoejhpojjmhpounsfupj,hbx
sx gqk”

I ohYjrngheuqhijjghtnpouljghnghoulngbhoejhmjspxghpnoongbhnghoej
fussnubjhaxshoejhxyqhmsngfjkhUphejhbxohgjusjshoxhoejhfussnubjhejhpuz
ijpnqjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehgxohoejhmsngfjhi ohuheugqpxtj,hpox ohcx gb
tughnghuhPfxofehfum,hznoehyxgbhjgqphxahsniixghijengqkhOenphzuphRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,huhqnpougohfx pnghxahoejhPeofejsiuoplcp,huhisnyynugohcx gb
bjgoyjtughnghMjojspi sbhugqhTxpfxzhpxfnjockh“Uhfumnouyhajyyxz,hugqhu
ljjghpmxsoptug,”huphPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunq,hngosxq fngbhentk

Gxohuhzenohuiupejqhichoejhqnpummxngotjgohfu pjqhichenpheurngbhfxtjhng
myufjhxahoejhxyqhmsngfj,hRjpyxrplchbsjjojqhYjrnghbunyc,hfyuntngb
ufw ungougfjhznoehenthnghoejhmupo,hugqhpguofengbh mhBsnpeuhngoxhoej
fussnubj,hynaojqhenthxrjshoejhmxngojshoeuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuq
isx beohznoehentk

Yjrnghqnqhgxohbjohngoxhoejhfussnubj,hi ohzuyljqhijengqkhEjhzuphsuoejs
rjvjqhuohoejhgxg-ussnruyhxahoejhxyqhmsngfj,hzexthejhynljqhtxsjhugqhtxsj
oejhtxsjhejhpuzhxahent,hugqhuypxhuohoejhussnruyhxahoenphRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,huhw nojh gfxgbjgnuyhugqhp mjsay x phmjspxgkhEjhpjjtjqhoxhent
ponyyhtxsjh gfxgbjgnuyhugqhp mjsay x phzejg,hxghummsxufengbhoejhpojmp
zejsjhoejhzexyjhmusoc,hfenyqsjghugqhbsxzg- m,hzjsjhbuoejsjqhoxbjoejshng
t fehjvfnojtjgo,hYjrnghpuzhRuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,hznoehuhmusonf yusychzust
ugqhbuyyugohuns,hlnppngbhLnooc’pheugqk

“Cx shznajhugqhNhusjhfx pngphugqhrjschxyqhasnjgqp,”hpunqhRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,hxgfjhtxsjhpeulngbhYjrng’pheugqhznoehbsjuohzustoek

“Zjyy,husjhoejsjhmyjgochxahinsqp?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhYjrng,
eusqychyjurngbhontjhaxshjrjscxgjhoxh oojshoejnshbsjjongbpkh“Zj’rjhfxtj
znoehoejhtxpohpurubjhngojgonxgpkhZec,htutug,hoejc’rjhgxohijjghnghTxpfxz
pngfj!hYxxl,hOugcu,hejsj’phpxtjoengbhaxshcx !hBjohno,hmyjupj,hno’phng
oejhfussnubj,hijengq!”hejhouyljqhnghuyyhqnsjfonxgpkh“Exzhmsjoochcx ’rj
bsxzg,hQxyyc,”hejhpunqhoxhenphznaj,hxgfjhtxsjhlnppngbhejsheugq,hexyqngb
nohnghxgjhxahenp,hugqhmuoongbhnohznoehoejhxoejsk

Yjrng,hzexhuhtng ojhijaxsjheuqhijjghnghoejheummnjpohasutjhxahtngq,hgxz
yxxljqhquslychuohjrjscxgj,hugqhjrjscoengbhqnpmyjupjqhentk

“Zexhzuphnohejhlnppjqhcjpojsquchznoehoexpjhynmp?”hejhoex beo,hyxxlngb
uohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phojgqjshqjtxgposuonxgphoxhenphznajkhEjhyxxljq
uohQxyyc,hugqhejhqnqhgxohynljhejshjnoejsk

“Pejhqxjpg’ohijynjrjhnghenphyxrjkhPxhzeuohnphpejhpxhmyjupjqhuix o?
Sjrxyongb!”hoex beohYjrngk

Ejhyxxljqhuohoejhmsngfjpp,hzexheuqhijjghpxhqjushoxhenthuhtng ojhijaxsj,
ugqhejhqnqhgxohynljhoejhtuggjshnghzenfehpejhzjyfxtjqhoenphRuppjglu,
znoehenphsniixgp,h. pohuphoex behpejhzjsjhnghejshxzghex pjk

JrjghPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzexheuqhfxtjhx ohoxxhxgoxhoejhpojmp,hpjjtjqhox
enth gmyjupugohznoehoejhpexzhxahfxsqnuynochznoehzenfehejhtjohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hoex behYjrnghlgjzhoeuohenphisxoejshgjnoejshynljqhgxs
sjpmjfojqhXiyxgplck

UgqhRusjglu,hjrjghpejhpjjtjqheuoja y,hznoehejshunsh_pungojhgnox fej_
tulngbhoejhufw ungougfjhxahoenphbjgoyjtug,hzenyjhuyyhoejhzenyjhpejhzup
oenglngbhxahgxoengbhi ohbjoongbhtussnjqk

Ugqhtxsjheuoja yhoeughugcxgjhzuphLnoochaxshauyyngbhnghznoehoejhoxgjhxa
bunjochznoehzenfehoenphbjgoyjtughsjbusqjqhenphrnpnohnghoejhfx gosc,hup
oex behnohzjsjhuhexynquchaxshentpjyahugqhjrjscxgjhjypjkhUgq,huixrjhuyy,
 gmyjupugohzuphoeuohmusonf yushptnyjhznoehzenfehpejhsjpmxgqjqhoxhenp
ptnyjk

Gxnpnychouylngb,hoejchuyyhzjgohngoxhoejhex pj;hi ohuphpxxghuphoejchzjsj
uyyhpjuojq,hYjrngho sgjqhugqhzjgohx ok

Lnoochpuzhpxtjoengbhzuphzsxgbhznoehejshe piugqkhPejhosnjqhoxhpjndjhu
txtjgohoxhpmjulhoxhenthuyxgj,hi ohejhtuqjheupojhoxhbjohuzuchasxthejs,
pucngbhejhzuphzugojqhuohoejhfx gongb-ex pjkhNohzuphyxgbhpngfjhenphxzg
zxslhxghoejhjpouojheuqhpjjtjqhoxhenthpxhntmxsougohuphuohoeuohtxtjgok
“No’phuyyhexynquchaxshoejt,”hejhoex beo;h“i ohoejpjhusjhgxhexynquc
tuoojsp,hoejchzxg’ohzuno,hugqhoejsj’phgxhynrngbhznoex ohoejtk”


Feumojsh7

Yjrnghfutjhiuflhoxhoejhex pjhxgychzejghoejchpjgohoxhp ttxghenthox
p mmjskhXghoejhpounsphzjsjhpougqngbhLnoochugqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,
fxgp yongbhuix ohzngjphaxshp mmjsk

“I ohzechusjhcx htulngbhuyyhoenpha pp?hEurjhzeuohzjh p uyychqxk”

“Gx,hPonruhqxjpg’ohqsnglhkkkhLxpocu,hpoxm,hzeuo’phoejhtuoojs?”hLnooc
ijbug,he sscngbhuaojshent,hi ohejhposxqjhs oeyjppychuzuchoxhoej
qngngb-sxxthznoex ohzunongbhaxshejs,hugqhuohxgfjh.xngjqhnghoejhynrjyc
bjgjsuyhfxgrjspuonxghzenfehzuphijngbhtungoungjqhoejsjhichRuppjglu
RjpyxrplchugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hpuc,husjhzjhbxngbhpexxongbhoxtxssxz?”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofek

“Myjupj,hqxhyjo’phbx,”hpunqhRjpyxrplc,htxrngbhoxhugxoejshfeuns,hzejsj
ejhpuohqxzghpnqjzucp,hznoehxgjhauohyjbhfsxppjqh gqjshentk

“Nhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojq,hzjhznyyhbxkhUgqheurjhcx heuqhugchpexxongbhcjo
oenphcjus?”hpunqhYjrnghoxhRjpyxrplc,hyxxlngbhngojgoychuohenphyjb,hi o
pmjulngbhznoehoeuohaxsfjqhutnuinynochoeuohLnoochlgjzhpxhzjyyhnghent,
ugqhoeuohzuphpxhx ohxahljjmngbhznoehentkh“Nhfug’ohugpzjshaxshx s
angqngbhbsx pj,hi ohoejsjhusjhmyjgochxahpgnmjkhXgychzjhx beohoxhpouso
jusyckhCx ’sjhgxohonsjq?hUsjg’ohcx honsjq,hPonru?”

“Tjhonsjq?hN’rjhgjrjshijjghonsjqhcjokhP mmxpjhzjhpouch mhuyyhgnbeok
Yjo’phbxhaxshuhzuyl!”

“Cjp,hsjuyyc,hyjo’phgxohbxhoxhijqhuohuyy!hFumnouy!”hRjpyxrplchfentjq
ngk

“Xe,hzjhuyyhlgxzhcx hfughqxhznoex ohpyjjm,hugqhljjmhxoejshmjxmyjh m
oxx,”hQxyychpunqhoxhejshe piugq,hznoehoeuohaungohgxojhxahnsxgchnghejs
rxnfjhzenfehpejhuytxpohuyzucpheuqhgxzhznoehejshe piugqkh“I ohoxhtc
oenglngb,hno’phontjhaxshijqhgxzkkkkhN’thbxngb,hNhqxg’ohzugohp mmjsk”

“Gx,hqxhpouchuhynooyj,hQxyyc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbxngbhsx gqhox
ejshpnqjhijengqhoejhouiyjhzejsjhoejchzjsjheurngbhp mmjskh“N’rjhpxht fe
ponyyhoxhojyyhcx k”

“Gxoengbhsjuyyc,hNhp mmxpjk”

“Qxhcx hlgxzhRjpyxrplcheuphijjghuohUggu’p,hugqhej’phbxngbhoxhoejt
ubung?hCx hlgxzhoejc’sjheusqychanaochtnyjphasxthcx ,hugqhNhoxxht po
fjsoungychbxhxrjshoejsjkhRjpyxrplc,hfxtjhejsj!”

Ruppjgluhfsxppjqhxrjshoxhoejhyuqnjp,hugqhpuohqxzghijpnqjhLnoock

“Ue,hqxhojyyhtj,hmyjupj;hcx heurjhpoucjqhznoehejs?hExzhzuphpej?”hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhummjuyjqhoxhentk

Yjrnghzuphyjaohuohoejhxoejshjgqhxahoejhouiyj,hugqhoex behgjrjshmu pngb
nghenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhmsngfjpphugqhRusjglu,hejhpuzhoeuohoejsj
zuphughjubjshugqhtcpojsnx phfxgrjspuonxghbxngbhxghijozjjghPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hQxyyc,hLnooc,hugqhRjpyxrplckhUgqhoeuohzuphgxohuyykhEjhpuz
xghenphznaj’phaufjhughjvmsjppnxghxahsjuyhajjyngbhuphpejhbudjqhznoe
anvjqhjcjphxghoejheugqpxtjhaufjhxahRuppjglu,hzexhzuphojyyngbhoejt
pxtjoengbhznoehbsjuohugntuonxgk

“No’phjvfjjqngbychgnfjhuohoejnshmyufj,”hRjpyxrplchzuphojyyngbhoejt
uix ohRsxgplchugqhUggukh“Nhfug’o,hxahfx spj,houljhnoh mxghtcpjyahox
. qbj,hi ohnghoejnshex pjhcx hajjyhoejhsjuyhajjyngbhxahextjk”

“Zeuohqxhoejchngojgqhqxngb?”

“NhijynjrjhoejchoenglhxahbxngbhoxhTxpfxzk”

“Exzh.xyychnohzx yqhijhaxsh phuyyhoxhbxhxrjshoxhoejthoxbjoejs!hZejghusj
cx hbxngbhoejsj?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehupljqhRuppjgluk

“N’thpmjgqngbh. ychoejsjk”

“Znyyhcx hbx?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhenphznajk

“N’rjhijjghzugongbhoxhuhyxgbhzenyj;hNhpeuyyhfjsoungychbx,”hpunqhQxyyck
“Nhuthpxsschaxshejs,hugqhNhlgxzhejskhPej’phuhpmyjgqnqhzxtugkhNhznyyhbx
uyxgj,hzejghcx hbxhiufl,hugqhoejghNhpeuyyhijhnghgxhxgj’phzuckhUgqhno
znyyhijhijoojshngqjjqhznoex ohcx k”

“Oxhijhp sj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Ugqhcx ,hLnooc?”

“N?hZechpex yqhNhbx?”hLnoochpunq,hay pengbhuyyhxrjs,hugqhpejhbyugfjq
sx gqhuohejshe piugqk

“Qxhcx hlgxzhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hoejg?”hRjpyxrplchupljqhejskh“Pej’phuhrjsc
aupfnguongbhzxtugk”

“Cjp,”hpejhugpzjsjqhRjpyxrplc,hfsntpxgngbhponyyhtxsjkhPejhbxoh mhugq
zuyljqhufsxpphoxhejshe piugqk

“Usjhcx hbxngbhpexxongb,hoejg,hoxtxssxz?”hpejhpunqk

Enph.juyx pcheuqhnghoejpjhajzhtxtjgop,hjpmjfnuyychuohoejhay pehoeuoheuq
xrjspmsjuqhejshfejjlphzenyjhpejhzuphouylngbhoxhRjpyxrplc,hbxgjhaus
ngqjjqkhGxzhuphejhejusqhejshzxsqp,hejhfxgpos jqhoejthnghenphxzg
aupenxgkhPosugbjhuphnohzuphoxhenthuaojszusqphoxhsjfuyyhno,hnohpjjtjqhox
enthuohoejhtxtjgohfyjushoeuohnghuplngbhzejoejshejhzuphbxngbhpexxongb,
uyyhpejhfusjqhoxhlgxzhzuphzejoejshejhzx yqhbnrjhoeuohmyjup sjhox
RuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,hznoehzext,huphejhaugfnjq,hpejhzuphnghyxrjk

“Cjp,hN’thbxngb,”hejhugpzjsjqhejshnghugh gguo suyhrxnfj,hqnpubsjjuiyj
oxhentpjyak

“Gx,hijoojshpmjgqhoejhquchejsjhoxtxssxz,hxshQxyychzxg’ohpjjhugcoengbhxa
ejshe piugq,hugqhpjohxaahoejhquchuaojs,”hpunqhLnoock

OejhtxonrjhxahLnooc’phzxsqphzuphngojsmsjojqhichYjrnghoe p:h“Qxg’o
pjmusuojhtjhasxth_ent_khNhqxg’ohfusjhuix oh_cx s_hbxngb,hi ohqxhyjohtj
jg.xchoejhpxfnjochxahoenphqjynbeoa yhcx gbhtugk”

“Xe,hnahcx hznpe,hzj’yyhpouchejsjhoxtxssxz,”hYjrnghugpzjsjq,hznoe
mjf ynushutnuinynock

Ruppjgluhtjugzenyj,h oojsych gp pmjfongbhoejhtnpjschenphmsjpjgfjheuq
xffupnxgjq,hbxoh mhasxthoejhouiyjhuaojshLnooc,hugqhzuofengbhejshznoe
ptnyngbhugqhuqtnsngbhjcjp,hejhaxyyxzjqhejsk

YjrnghpuzhoeuohyxxlkhEjho sgjqhzenoj,hugqhaxshuhtng ojhejhfx yqheusqyc
isjuoejkh“Exzhqusjhejhyxxlhuohtchznajhynljhoeuo!”hzuphoejhajjyngbhoeuo
ixnyjqhznoenghentk

“Oxtxssxz,hoejg?hQx,hmyjupj,hyjoh phbx,”hpunqhRuppjglu,hpnoongbhqxzghxg
uhfeuns,hugqhubunghfsxppngbhenphyjbhuphenpheuinohzupk

Yjrng’ph.juyx pchzjgoha soejshponyykhUysjuqchejhpuzhentpjyahuhqjfjnrjq
e piugq,hyxxljqh mxghichenphznajhugqhejshyxrjshuphpntmychgjfjppuschox
msxrnqjhoejthznoehoejhfxgrjgnjgfjphugqhmyjup sjphxahynajkkkkhI ohng
pmnojhxahoeuohejhtuqjhmxynojhugqhexpmnouiyjhngw nsnjphxahRuppjgluhuix o
enphpexxongb,henphb g,hugqhenphixxop,hugqhubsjjqhoxhbxhpexxongbhgjvo
quck

EummnychaxshYjrng,hoejhxyqhmsngfjpphf ohpexsohenphubxgnjphichbjoongbh m
ejspjyahugqhuqrnpngbhLnoochoxhbxhoxhijqkhI ohjrjghuohoenphmxngohYjrng
fx yqhgxohjpfumjhugxoejshubxgckhUphejhpunqhbxxq-gnbeohoxhenphexpojpp,
Ruppjgluhzx yqhubungheurjhlnppjqhejsheugq,hi ohLnooc,hsjqqjgngb,hqsjz
iuflhejsheugqhugqhpunqhznoehuhguïrjhiy gogjpp,haxshzenfehoejhxyq
msngfjpphpfxyqjqhejshuaojszusqp:

“Zjhqxg’ohynljhoeuohaupenxgk”

NghYjrng’phjcjphpejhzuphoxhiyutjhaxsheurngbhuyyxzjqhp fehsjyuonxgphox
usnpj,hugqhponyyhtxsjhoxhiyutjhaxshpexzngbhpxhuzlzusqychoeuohpejhqnq
gxohynljhoejtk

“Zec,hexzhfughxgjhzugohoxhbxhoxhijq!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzex,
uaojshqsnglngbhpjrjsuyhbyuppjphxahzngjhuohp mmjs,hzuphgxzhnghenphtxpo
feustngbhugqhpjgontjgouyhe txskh“Yxxl,hLnooc,”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoej
txxg,hzenfeheuqh. pohsnpjghijengqhoejhyntjhosjjp—“exzhjvw npnoj!
Rjpyxrplc,hoenphnphoejhontjhaxshuhpjsjguqjkhCx hlgxz,hejheuphuhpmyjgqnq
rxnfj;hzjhmsufonfjqhpxgbphoxbjoejshuyxgbhoejhsxuqkhEjheuphisx beohpxtj
yxrjychpxgbphznoehent,hozxhgjzhxgjpkhRusrusuhUgqsjjrguhugqhejht pohpngb
pxtjhq jopk”

Zejghoejhmusocheuqhisxljgh m,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuyljqhuhyxgbhzenyj
uix ohoejhurjg jhznoehRjpyxrplc;hoejnshrxnfjphfx yqhijhejusqhpngbngb
xgjhxahoejhgjzhpxgbpk

Yjrnghejusngbhoejpjhrxnfjphpuohpfxzyngbhnghughjupc-feunshnghenphznaj’p
ijqsxxt,hugqhtungoungjqhughxiponguojhpnyjgfjhzejghpejhupljqhenthzeuo
zuphzsxgbkhI ohzejghuohyupohznoehuhontnqhbyugfjhpejheudusqjqhoej
w jponxg:h“Zuphoejsjhmjseumphpxtjoengbhcx hqnpynljqhuix o
Rjpyxrplc?”—nohuyyhi spohx o,hugqhejhoxyqhejshuyykhEjhzuphe tnynuojq
entpjyahuohzeuohejhzuphpucngb,hugqhoeuohjvupmjsuojqhenthuyyhoejhtxsjk

Ejhpoxxqhaufngbhejshznoehenphjcjphbynoojsngbhtjgufngbych gqjshenp
pfxzyngbhisxzp,hugqhejhpw jjdjqhenphposxgbhustphufsxpphenphfejpo,hup
oex behejhzjsjhposungngbhjrjschgjsrjhoxhexyqhentpjyahngkhOejhjvmsjppnxg
xahenphaufjhzx yqheurjhijjghbsnt,hugqhjrjghfs jy,hnahnoheuqhgxohuohoej
putjhontjheuqhuhyxxlhxahp aajsngbhzenfehox fejqhejskhEnph.uzphzjsj
oznofengb,hugqhenphrxnfjhljmohisjulngbk

“Cx ht poh gqjspougqhoeuohN’thgxoh.juyx p,hoeuo’phuhgupochzxsqkhNhfug’o
ijh.juyx p,hugqhijynjrjhoeuokkkkhNhfug’ohpuchzeuohNhajjy,hi ohoenphnp
uza ykkkkhN’thgxoh.juyx p,hi ohN’thzx gqjq,he tnynuojqhoeuohugcixqc
qusjhoengl,hoeuohugcixqchqusjhyxxlhuohcx hznoehjcjphynljhoeuok”

“Jcjphynljhzeuo?”hpunqhLnooc,hoscngbhuphfxgpfnjgonx pychuphmxppniyjhox
sjfuyyhjrjschzxsqhugqhbjpo sjhxahoeuohjrjgngbhugqhjrjschpeuqjhntmynjq
nghoejtk

Uohoejhrjschixooxthxahejshejusohpejhqnqhoenglhoejsjheuqhijjghpxtjoengb
msjfnpjychuohoejhtxtjgohzejghejheuqhfsxppjqhxrjshuaojshejshoxhoejhxoejs
jgqhxahoejhouiyj;hi ohpejhqusjqhgxohxzghnohjrjghoxhejspjya,hugqhzx yq
eurjhijjghjrjghtxsjh guiyjhoxhisngbhejspjyahoxhpuchpxhoxhent,hugqhpx
ngfsjupjhenphp aajsngbk

“Ugqhzeuohfughoejsjhmxppniychijhuoosufonrjhuix ohtjhuphNhuthgxz?kkk”

“Ue!”hejhfsnjq,hfy ofengbhuohenphejuq,h“cx hpex yqg’ohpuchoeuo!kkkhNa
cx heuqhijjghuoosufonrjhoejgkkkk”

“Xe,hgx,hLxpocu,hxe,hzunohuhtng oj,hxe,hqxhynpojg!”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngb
uohenthznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahmungjqhfxttnpjsuonxgkh“Zec,hzeuohfughcx 
ijhoenglngbhuix o!hZejghaxshtjhoejsj’phgxhxgjhnghoejhzxsyq,hgxhxgj,hgx
xgj!kkkhZx yqhcx hynljhtjhgjrjshoxhpjjhugcxgj?”

Axshoejhanspohtng ojhpejheuqhijjghxaajgqjqhuohenph.juyx pc;hpejhzup
ugbschoeuohoejhpynbeojpohut pjtjgo,hjrjghoejhtxpohnggxfjgo,hpex yqhij
axsinqqjghejs;hi ohgxzhpejhzx yqhsjuqnycheurjhpufsnanfjq,hgxohtjsjyc
p fehosnayjp,hi ohjrjscoengb,haxshenphmjufjhxahtngq,hoxhpurjhenthasxt
oejhubxgchejhzuphp aajsngbk

“Cx ht poh gqjspougqhoejhexssxshugqhfxtjqchxahtchmxpnonxg,”hejhzjgohxg
nghuhqjpmjsuojhzenpmjs;h“oeuohej’phnghtchex pj,hoeuohej’phqxgjhgxoengb
ntmsxmjshmxpnonrjychjvfjmohenphasjjhugqhjupchunsphugqhoejhzuchejhpnop
xghenphyjbpkhEjhoenglphno’phoejhijpohmxppniyjhaxst,hugqhpxhN’thxiynbjq
oxhijhfnrnyhoxhentk”

“I o,hLxpocu,hcx ’sjhjvubbjsuongb,”hpunqhLnooc,huohoejhixooxthxahejs
ejusohsj.xnfngbhuohoejhqjmoehxahenphyxrjhaxshejs,hpexzghgxzhnghenp
.juyx pck

“Oejhtxpohuza yhmusohxahnohuyyhnphoeuohcx ’sjh. pohuphcx huyzucphusj,
ugqhjpmjfnuyychgxzhzejghoxhtjhcx ’sjhpxtjoengbhpufsjq,hugqhzj’sjhpx
eummc,hpxhmusonf yusycheummc—ugqhuyyhxahuhp qqjghuhynooyjhzsjofekkkk
Ej’phgxohuhynooyjhzsjofe;hzechpex yqhNhui pjhent?hNheurjhgxoengbhoxhqx
znoehentkhI ohzechpex yqhtc,hugqhcx s,heummngjppkkkk”

“Qxhcx hlgxz,hNh gqjspougqhgxzhzeuohno’phuyyhfxtjhasxt,”hLnoochzup
ijbnggngbk

“Zjyy,hzeuo?hzeuo?”

“Nhpuzhexzhcx hyxxljqhzenyjhzjhzjsjhouylngbhuohp mmjsk”

“Zjyy,hzjyy!”hYjrnghpunqhnghqnptuck

Pejhoxyqhenthzeuohoejcheuqhijjghouylngbhuix okhUgqhuphpejhoxyqhent,hpej
zuphisjuoeyjpphznoehjtxonxgkhYjrnghzuphpnyjgohaxshuhpmufj,hoejghej
pfuggjqhejshmuyjhugqhqnposjppjqhaufj,hugqhp qqjgychejhfy ofejqhuohenp
ejuqk

“Luocu,hN’rjhijjghzxsscngbhcx !hQusyngb,haxsbnrjhtj!hNo’phtuqgjpp!
Luocu,hN’thuhfsntnguykhUgqhexzhfx yqhcx hijhpxhqnposjppjqhuohp fe
nqnxfc?”

“Xe,hNhzuphpxsschaxshcx k”

“Axshtj?haxshtj?hExzhtuqhNhut!kkkhI ohzechtuljhcx htnpjsuiyj?hNo’p
uza yhoxhoenglhoeuohugchx opnqjshfughpeuoojshx sheummngjppk”

“No’phe tnynuongbhoxx,hxahfx spjk”

“Xe,hoejghN’yyhljjmhenthejsjhuyyhoejhp ttjs,hugqhznyyhxrjszejythent
znoehfnrnynoc,”hpunqhYjrng,hlnppngbhejsheugqpkh“Cx hpeuyyhpjjk
OxtxssxzkkkkhXe,hcjp,hzjhusjhbxngbhoxtxssxzk”


Feumojsh8

Gjvohquc,hijaxsjhoejhyuqnjphzjsjh m,hoejhzubxgjoojhugqhuhosumhaxshoej
pexxongbhmusochzjsjhuohoejhqxxs,hugqhYuplu,huzusjhpngfjhjusychtxsgngb
oeuohoejchzjsjhbxngbhpexxongb,huaojsht fehzengngbhugqhqusongbhoxhugq
asx,heuqhpuohejspjyahqxzghnghoejhzubxgjoojhijpnqjhoejhfxufetug,hugq,
qnpummsxrngbhxahoejhqjyuc,hzuphjvfnojqychzuofengbhoejhqxxshasxthzenfe
oejhpmxsoptjghponyyhqnqhgxohfxtjhx okhOejhanspohoxhfxtjhx ohzup
RuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,hnghgjzhenbehixxophoeuohsjufejqheuya-zuch mhenp
oenflhoenbep,hnghuhbsjjghiyx pj,hznoehuhgjzhS ppnughyjuoejs
fusosnqbj-ijyo,hugqhnghenphPfxofehfumhznoehsniixgp,hznoehuhisugq-gjz
Jgbynpehb ghznoex ohuhpyngbkhYupluhayjzh mhoxhent,hzjyfxtjqhent,hugq
. tmngbh m,hupljqhenthnghejshxzghzuchzejoejshoejhxoejsphzjsjhfxtngb
pxxg,hi ohbjoongbhgxhugpzjshasxthent,hpejhsjo sgjqhoxhejshmxpohxa
xipjsruonxghugqhpuglhngoxhsjmxpjhubung,hejshejuqhxghxgjhpnqj,hugqhxgj
jushmsnfljqh mhoxhynpojgkhUohyupohoejhqxxshxmjgjqhznoehuhfsjul,hugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phpmxo-ugq-oughmxngojshLsulhayjzhx o,hs ggngbhsx gq
ugqhsx gqhugqho sgngbhxrjshnghoejhunskhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehentpjya
axyyxzjqhznoehuhb ghnghenpheugqhugqhuhfnbushnghenphtx oek

“Bxxqhqxb,hbxxqhqxb,hLsul!”hejhfsnjqhjgfx subngbychoxhoejhqxb,hzexhm o
enphmuzph mhxghenphfejpo,hfuofengbhuohenphbutjhiubkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
zuphqsjppjqhnghsx behyjbbngbphugqhpmuop,hnghoxsghosx pjsphugqhuhpexso
fxuokhXghenphejuqhoejsjhzuphuhzsjflhxahuheuohxahngqjangnojhaxst,hi o
enphb ghxahuhgjzhmuojgohzuphuhmjsajfohbjt,hugqhenphbutjhiubhugq
fusosnqbjhijyo,hoex behzxsg,hzjsjhxahoejhrjschijpohw uynock

RuppjgluhRjpyxrplcheuqheuqhgxhgxonxghijaxsjhoeuohnohzuphos ych_fenf_
axshuhpmxsoptughoxhijhnghouoojsp,hi ohoxheurjhenphpexxongbhx oanohxa
oejhijpohw uynockhEjhpuzhnohgxzhuphejhyxxljqhuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
suqnugohnghenphsubp,hbsufja y,hzjyy-ajq,hugqh.xcx p,huhocmnfuyhS ppnug
gxiyjtugkhUgqhejhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoeuohgjvohontjhejhzjgohpexxongbhej
zx yqhfjsoungychuqxmohoejhputjhbjo- mk

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohuix ohx shexpo?”hejhupljqk

“Uhcx gbhznaj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngbk

“Cjp,hugqhp fehuhfeustngbhxgj!”

“EjhfutjhqxzghqsjppjqkhGxhqx iohej’phs gh mhoxhejshubungk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehb jppjqhsnbeokhYjrngheuqhs gh mhubunghoxhenphznaj
oxhuplhejshxgfjhtxsjhnahpejhaxsburjhenthaxshenphnqnxfchcjpojsquc,hugq,
txsjxrjs,hoxhijbhejshaxshFesnpo’phpuljhoxhijhtxsjhfusja ykhOejhbsjuo
oengbhzuphaxshejshoxhljjmhuzuchasxthoejhfenyqsjg—oejchtnbeohugchtng oj
m pehubungpohejskhOejghejheuqhxgfjhtxsjhoxhejushejshqjfyusjhoeuohpej
zuphgxohugbschznoehenthaxshbxngbhuzuchaxshozxhqucp,hugqhoxhijbhejshox
ijhp sjhoxhpjgqhenthuhgxojhgjvohtxsgngbhichuhpjsrugohxghexspjiufl,hox
zsnojhent,hnahnohzjsjhi ohozxhzxsqphxgyc,hoxhyjohenthlgxzhoeuohuyyhzup
zjyyhznoehejsk

Lnoochzuphqnposjppjq,huphpejhuyzucphzup,huohmusongbhaxshuhfx myjhxa
qucphasxthejshe piugq,hi ohzejghpejhpuzhenphjubjshanb sj,hyxxlngbhinb
ugqhposxgbhnghenphpexxongb-ixxophugqhenphzenojhiyx pj,hugqhuhpxsohxa
pmxsoptughjyuonxghugqhjvfnojtjgohngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhejs,hpejhaxsbxo
ejshxzghfeubsnghaxshoejhpuljhxahenphmyjup sj,hugqhpunqhbxxq-icjhoxhent
fejjsa yyck

“Musqxg,hbjgoyjtjg!”hejhpunq,hs ggngbhx ohxgoxhoejhpojmpkh“Eurjhcx hm o
oejhy gfehng?hZechnphoejhfejpog ohxghoejhsnbeo?hZjyy,hnohqxjpg’o
tuoojskhYuplu,hqxzg;hbxhugqhynjhqxzg!”

“M ohnohznoehoejhejsqhxahxvjg,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhejsqptug,hzexhzup
zunongbhaxshenthuohoejhpojmphznoehpxtjhw jponxgkh“Jvf pjhtj,hejsjhfxtjp
ugxoejshrnyyungk”

Yjrngh. tmjqhx ohxahoejhzubxgjooj,hnghzenfehejheuqhuysjuqchouljghenp
pjuo,hoxhtjjohoejhfusmjgojs,hzexhfutjhoxzusqphoejhpojmphznoehuhs yjhng
enpheugqk

“Cx hqnqg’ohfxtjhoxhoejhfx gongbhex pjhcjpojsquc,hugqhgxzhcx ’sj
qjoungngbhtjkhZjyy,hzeuohnphno?”

“Zx yqhcx shexgxshyjohtjhtuljhugxoejsho sgngb?hNo’phxgychoesjjhpojmphox
uqqkhUgqhzjhtuljhnoh. pohanohuohoejhputjhontjkhNohznyyhijht fehtxsj
fxgrjgnjgok”

“Cx hpex yqheurjhynpojgjqhoxhtj,”hYjrnghugpzjsjqhznoehuggxcugfjkh“N
punq:hM ohoejhyngjphugqhoejghanohnghoejhpojmpkhGxzhoejsj’phgxhpjoongb
nohsnbeokhQxhuphNhoxyqhcx ,hugqhtuljhuhgjzhpounsfupjk”

Oejhmxngohzuphoeuohnghoejhyxqbjhoeuohzuphijngbhi nyohoejhfusmjgojsheuq
pmxnyjqhoejhpounsfupj,hanoongbhnohoxbjoejshznoex ohfuyf yuongbhoej
pmufjhnohzuphoxhanyy,hpxhoeuohoejhpojmphzjsjhuyyhpyxmngbhzejghnohzup
m ohnghmyufjkhGxzhoejhfusmjgojshzugojq,hljjmngbhoejhputjhpounsfupj,hox
uqqhoesjjhpojmpk

“Nohznyyhijht fehijoojsk”

“I ohzejsj’phcx shpounsfupjhfxtngbhx ohznoehnophoesjjhpojmp?”

“Zec,h mxghtchzxsq,hpns,”hoejhfusmjgojshpunqhznoehuhfxgojtmo x phptnyjk
“Nohfxtjphx ohsnbeohuohoejhrjschpmxokhNohpousop,hpxhoxhpmjul,”hejhpunq,
znoehuhmjsp upnrjhbjpo sj;h“nohfxtjphqxzg,hugqhfxtjphqxzg,hugqhfxtjp
x ok”

“I ohoesjjhpojmphznyyhuqqhoxhoejhyjgboehoxxhkkkhzejsjhnphnohoxhfxtj
x o?”

“Zec,hoxhijhp sj,hno’yyhpousohasxthoejhixooxthugqhbxh mhugqhbxh m,hugq
fxtjhx ohpx,”hoejhfusmjgojshpunqhxiponguojychugqhfxgrngfngbyck

“No’yyhsjufehoejhfjnyngbhugqhoejhzuyyk”

“ mxghtchzxsq!hZec,hno’yyhbxh m,hugqh m,hugqhfxtjhx ohynljhoenpk”

Yjrnghoxxlhx ohuhsutsxqhugqhijbughpljofengbhenthoejhpounsfupjhnghoej
q pok

“Oejsj,hqxhcx hpjj?”

“Uphcx shexgxshynljp,”hpunqhoejhfusmjgojs,hznoehuhp qqjghbyjuthnghenp
jcjp,hxirnx pych gqjspougqngbhoejhoengbhuohyupokh“Nohpjjtphno’yyhij
ijpohoxhtuljhuhgjzhxgjk”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hqxhnohuphcx ’sjhoxyq,”hYjrnghpex ojq,hpjuongbhentpjyahng
oejhzubxgjoojkh“Qxzg!hExyqhoejhqxbp,hMenynm!”

Yjrnghajyohgxzhuohyjurngbhijengqhuyyhenphautnychugqhex pjexyqhfusjp
p fehughjubjshpjgpjhxah.xchnghynajhugqhjvmjfouonxghoeuohejhzuphgxo
qnpmxpjqhoxhouylkhIjpnqjphoeuo,hejheuqhoeuohajjyngbhxahfxgfjgosuojq
jvfnojtjgohoeuohjrjschpmxsoptughjvmjsnjgfjphuphejhummsxufejphoejhpfjgj
xahufonxgkhNahejheuqhugcoengbhxghenphtngqhuohoeuohtxtjgo,hnohzuphxgyc
oejhqx iohzejoejshoejchzx yqhpousohugcoengbhnghoejhLxymjgplchtuspe,
zejoejshYupluhzx yqhpexzhoxhuqrugoubjhnghfxtmusnpxghznoehLsul,hugq
zejoejshejhzx yqhpexxohzjyyhoeuohquchentpjyakhGxohoxhqnpbsufjhentpjya
ijaxsjhuhgjzhpmjfouoxs—gxohoxhijhx oqxgjhichXiyxgplc—oeuohoxxhzuphu
oex beohoeuohfsxppjqhenphisungk

Xiyxgplchzuphajjyngbhoejhputj,hugqhejhoxxhzuphgxohouyluonrjkhRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplchljmoh mhuyxgjhuhfjupjyjpphayxzhxahfejjsa yhfeuoojskhUphej
ynpojgjqhoxhenthgxz,hYjrnghajyohupeutjqhoxhoenglhexzh gaunshejheuqhijjg
oxhenthoejhquchijaxsjkhRuppjgluhzuphsjuyychuhgnfjhajyyxz,hpntmyj,
bxxq-ejusojq,hugqhrjschbxxq-e txsjqkhNahYjrngheuqhtjohenthijaxsjhejhzup
tussnjq,hejhzx yqheurjhtuqjhasnjgqphznoehentkhYjrnghsuoejshqnpynljqhenp
exynquchuoono qjhoxhynajhugqhuhpxsohxahasjjhugqhjupchupp tmonxghxa
jyjbugfjkhNohzuphuphoex behejhupp tjqhuhenbehqjbsjjhxahntmxsougfjhng
entpjyahoeuohfx yqhgxohijhqnpm ojq,hijfu pjhejheuqhyxgbhgunyphugqhu
pocynpehfum,hugqhjrjscoengbhjypjhoxhfxssjpmxgq;hi ohoenphfx yqhij
axsbnrjghaxshoejhpuljhxahenphbxxqhguo sjhugqhbxxqhisjjqngbkhYjrnghynljq
enthaxshenphbxxqhjq fuonxg,haxshpmjulngbhAsjgfehugqhJgbynpehznoehp fe
ughjvfjyyjgohuffjgo,hugqhaxshijngbhuhtughxahenphzxsyqk

Ruppjgluhzuphjvosjtjychqjynbeojqhznoehoejhyjaohexspj,huhexspjhxahoej
QxghPojmmjpkhEjhljmohmsunpngbhenthjgoe pnuponfuyyckh“Exzhangjhnoht po
ijhbuyyxmngbhxrjshoejhpojmmjphxghuhpojmmjhexspj!hJe?hnpg’ohno?”hej
punqkhEjheuqhntubngjqhsnqngbhxghuhpojmmjhexspjhuphpxtjoengbhznyqhugq
sxtugonf,hugqhnoho sgjqhx ohgxoengbhxahoejhpxsokhI ohenphpntmynfnoc,
musonf yusychnghfxg. gfonxghznoehenphbxxqhyxxlp,henphutnuiyjhptnyj,hugq
oejhbsufjhxahenphtxrjtjgop,hzuphrjschuoosufonrjkhJnoejshijfu pjhenp
guo sjhzuphpctmuoejonfhoxhYjrng,hxshijfu pjhYjrnghzuphoscngbhoxhuoxgj
axshenphpngphxahoejhmsjrnx phjrjgngbhichpjjngbhgxoengbhi ohzeuohzup
bxxqhnghent,hugczuchejhynljqhenphpxfnjock

Uaojshoejcheuqhqsnrjghxrjshozxhtnyjphasxthextj,hRjpyxrplchuyyhuohxgfj
ajyohaxshuhfnbushugqhenphmxfljoixxl,hugqhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshejheuq
yxpohoejthxshyjaohoejthxghoejhouiyjkhNghoejhmxfljoixxlhoejsjhzjsj
oensoc-pjrjghmx gqp,hugqhpxhoejhtuoojshfx yqhgxohijhyjaohng
 gfjsoungock

“Qxhcx hlgxzhzeuo,hYjrng,hN’yyhbuyyxmhextjhxghoeuohyjaohosufj-exspjk
OeuohznyyhijhpmyjgqnqkhJe?”hejhpunq,hmsjmusngbhoxhbjohx ok

“Gx,hzechpex yqhcx ?”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hfuyf yuongbhoeuohRuppjgluhfx yq
eusqychzjnbehyjpphoeughpjrjgojjghpoxgjkh“N’yyhpjgqhoejhfxufetugk”

Oejhfxufetughsxqjhiuflhxghoejhosufj-exspj,hugqhYjrnghentpjyahqsxrjhoej
sjtungngbhmunsk


Feumojsh9

“Zjyy,hgxzhzeuo’phx shmyughxahfutmunbg?hOjyyh phuyyhuix ohno,”hpunq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“X shmyughnphoenpkhGxzhzj’sjhqsnrngbhoxhBrxdqcxrkhNghBrxdqcxrhoejsj’phu
bsx pjhtuspehxghoenphpnqj,hugqhijcxgqhBrxdqcxrhfxtjhpxtjhtubgnanfjgo
pgnmjhtuspejphzejsjhoejsjhusjhbsx pjhoxxkhNo’phexohgxz,hugqhzj’yyhbjo
oejsj—no’phanaojjghtnyjphxshpx—oxzusqphjrjgngbhugqheurjhpxtjhjrjgngb
pexxongb;hzj’yyhpmjgqhoejhgnbeohoejsjhugqhbxhxghoxtxssxzhoxhoejhinbbjs
txxspk”

“Ugqhnphoejsjhgxoengbhxghoejhzuc?”

“Cjp;hi ohzj’yyhsjpjsrjhx spjyrjp;hijpnqjphno’phexokhOejsjhusjhozxhgnfj
ynooyjhmyufjp,hi ohNhqx iohoejsjhijngbhugcoengbhoxhpexxok”

Yjrnghzx yqhentpjyaheurjhynljqhoxhbxhngoxhoejpjhynooyjhmyufjp,hi ohoejc
zjsjhgjushextj;hejhfx yqhpexxohoejthxrjshugchontj,hugqhoejchzjsjhxgyc
ynooyjhmyufjp—oejsjhzx yqheusqychijhsxxthaxshoesjjhoxhpexxokhUgqhpx,
znoehpxtjhngpngfjsnoc,hejhpunqhoeuohejhqx iojqhoejsjhijngbhugcoengbhox
pexxokhZejghoejchsjufejqhuhynooyjhtuspehYjrnghzx yqheurjhqsnrjghic,hi o
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehoejhjvmjsnjgfjqhjcjhxahuhpmxsoptug,huohxgfj
qjojfojqhsjjqphrnpniyjhasxthoejhsxuqk

“Peug’ohzjhoschoeuo?”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoejhynooyjhtuspek

“Yjrng,hqx,hmyjupj!hexzhqjynbeoa y!”hRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchijbughijbbngb,
ugqhYjrnghfx yqhi ohfxgpjgok

Ijaxsjhoejcheuqhontjhoxhpoxm,hoejhqxbpheuqhayxzghxgjhijaxsjhoejhxoejs
ngoxhoejhtuspek

“Lsul!hYuplu!kkk”

Oejhqxbphfutjhiuflk

“Oejsjhzxg’ohijhsxxthaxshoesjjkhN’yyhpouchejsj,”hpunqhYjrng,hexmngb
oejchzx yqhangqhgxoengbhi ohmjjznop,hzexheuqhijjghpousoyjqhichoejhqxbp,
ugqho sgngbhxrjshnghoejnshaynbeo,hzjsjhmyungonrjychzunyngbhxrjshoej
tuspek

“Gx!hFxtjhuyxgb,hYjrng,hyjo’phbxhoxbjoejs!”hRjpyxrplchfuyyjqk

“Sjuyyc,hoejsj’phgxohsxxtkhYuplu,hiufl,hYuplu!hCx hzxg’ohzugohugxoejs
qxb,hznyyhcx ?”

Yjrnghsjtungjqhznoehoejhzubxgjooj,hugqhyxxljqhjgrnx pychuohoej
pmxsoptjgkhOejchzuyljqhsnbeohufsxpphoejhtuspekhJvfjmohynooyjhinsqphugq
mjjznop,hxahzenfehRuppjgluhlnyyjqhxgj,hoejsjhzuphgxoengbhnghoejhtuspek

“Fxtj,hcx hpjjhgxzhoeuohnohzuphgxohoeuohNhbs qbjqhoejhtuspe,”hpunq
Yjrng,h“xgychno’phzupongbhontjk”

“Xe,hgx,hnohzuph.xyychuyyhoejhputjkhQnqhcx hpjjh p?”hpunqhRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,hfyutijsngbhuzlzusqychngoxhoejhzubxgjoojhznoehenphb ghugqhenp
mjjznohnghenpheugqpkh“ExzhpmyjgqnqychNhpexohoenphinsq!hQnqg’ohN?hZjyy,
peuyyhzjhpxxghijhbjoongbhoxhoejhsjuyhmyufj?”

Oejhexspjphpousojqhxaahp qqjgyc,hYjrnghlgxfljqhenphejuqhubungpohoej
poxflhxahpxtjxgj’phb g,hugqhoejsjhzuphoejhsjmxsohxahuhpexokhOejhb ghqnq
ufo uyychbxhxaahanspo,hi ohoeuohzuphexzhnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrngkhNohummjusjq
oeuohRuppjgluhRjpyxrplcheuqhm yyjqhxgychxgjhosnbbjs,hugqheuqhyjaohoej
xoejsheuttjshponyyhfxfljqkhOejhfeusbjhayjzhngoxhoejhbsx gqhznoex o
qxngbheusthoxhugcxgjkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpexxlhenphejuqhugqhyu bejq
sjmsxrngbychuohRjpyxrplckhI ohYjrngheuqhgxohoejhejusohoxhsjmsxrjhentk
Nghoejhanspohmyufj,hugchsjmsxufehzx yqheurjhpjjtjqhoxhijhfuyyjqhaxsoe
ichoejhqugbjshejheuqhngf ssjqhugqhoejhi tmhoeuoheuqhfxtjh mhxghYjrng’p
axsjejuqkhUgqhijpnqjp,hRjpyxrplchzuphuohanspohpxhguïrjychqnposjppjq,
ugqhoejghyu bejqhpxhbxxq-e txsjqychugqhngajfonx pychuohoejnshbjgjsuy
qnptuc,hoeuohxgjhfx yqhgxohi ohyu behznoehentk

Zejghoejchsjufejqhoejhpjfxgqhtuspe,hzenfehzuphaunsychyusbj,hugqhzx yq
ngjrnouiychouljhpxtjhontjhoxhpexxohxrjs,hYjrnghosnjqhoxhmjsp uqjhoejt
oxhmupphnohickhI ohRjpyxrplchubunghxrjsmjsp uqjqhentkhUbung,huphoej
tuspehzuphgussxz,hYjrng,hynljhuhbxxqhexpo,hsjtungjqhznoehoejhfussnubjk

Lsulhtuqjhposunbeohaxshpxtjhfy tmphxahpjqbjkhRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchzuphoej
anspohoxhs ghuaojshoejhqxbkhIjaxsjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhontjhoxhfxtj
 m,huhbsx pjhayjzhx okhRjpyxrplchtnppjqhnohugqhnohayjzhngoxhugh gtxzg
tjuqxzkhOenphbsx pjhzuphyjaohaxshRjpyxrplchoxhaxyyxzh mkhLsulhax gqhno
ubunghugqhmxngojq,hugqhRjpyxrplchpexohnohugqhzjgohiuflhoxhoejhfussnubjk
“Gxzhcx hbxhugqhN’yyhpouchznoehoejhexspjp,”hejhpunqk

Yjrngheuqhijb ghoxhajjyhoejhmugbphxahuhpmxsoptug’phjgrckhEjheugqjqhoej
sjngphoxhRjpyxrplchugqhzuyljqhngoxhoejhtuspek

Yuplu,hzexheuqhijjghmyungonrjychzengngbhugqhasjoongbhubungpohoej
ng. ponfjhxahejshosjuotjgo,hayjzhposunbeohuejuqhoxhuhexmja yhmyufjhoeuo
Yjrnghlgjzhzjyy,hugqhoeuohLsulheuqhgxohcjohfxtjh mxgk

“Zechqxg’ohcx hpoxmhejs?”hpex ojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Pejhzxg’ohpfusjhoejt,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hpctmuoendngbhznoehenphinofe’p
myjup sjhugqhe sscngbhuaojshejsk

Uphpejhfutjhgjusjshugqhgjusjshoxhoejhautnynushisjjqngbhmyufjphoejsjhzup
txsjhugqhtxsjhjusgjpogjpphnghYuplu’phjvmyxsuonxgkhUhynooyjhtuspehinsq
qnqhgxohqnrjsohejshuoojgonxghaxshtxsjhoeughughngpougokhPejhtuqjhxgj
fnsf nohsx gqhoejhfy tmhxahsjjqp,hzuphijbnggngbhuhpjfxgq,hugqhp qqjgyc
w nrjsjqhznoehjvfnojtjgohugqhijfutjhtxonxgyjppk

“Fxtj,hfxtj,hPonru!”hpex ojqhYjrng,hajjyngbhenphejusohijbnggngbhoxhijuo
txsjhrnxyjgoyc;hugqhuyyhxahuhp qqjg,huphoex behpxtjhpxsohxahpe oojsheuq
ijjghqsuzghiuflhasxthenphposungngbhjusp,huyyhpx gqp,hfxga pjqhi ohyx q,
ijbughoxhijuohxghenphejusngb,hyxpngbhuyyhpjgpjhxahqnpougfjkhEjhejusq
oejhpojmphxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,htnpoulngbhoejthaxshoejhosutmhxahoej
exspjphnghoejhqnpougfj;hejhejusqhoejhisnooyjhpx gqhxahoejhoznbphxg
zenfehejheuqhosxqqjg,houlngbhoenphpx gqhaxshoejhaycngbhxahuhbsx pjkhEj
ejusqhoxx,hgxohaushijengqhent,huhpmyupengbhnghoejhzuojs,hzenfehejhfx yq
gxohjvmyunghoxhentpjyak

Mnflngbhenphpojmp,hejhtxrjqh mhoxhoejhqxbk

“Ajofehno!”

Gxohuhbsx pjhi ohuhpgnmjhayjzh mhasxthijpnqjhoejhqxbkhYjrngheuqhynaojq
enphb g,hi ohuohoejhrjschngpougohzejghejhzuphoulngbhunt,hoejhpx gqhxa
pmyupengbhbsjzhyx qjs,hfutjhfyxpjs,hugqhzuph.xngjqhznoehoejhpx gqhxa
Rjpyxrplc’phrxnfj,hpex ongbhpxtjoengbhznoehposugbjhyx qgjppkhYjrnghpuz
ejheuqhenphb ghmxngojqhijengqhoejhpgnmj,hi ohponyyhejhansjqk

Zejghejheuqhtuqjhp sjhejheuqhtnppjq,hYjrnghyxxljqhsx gqhugqhpuzhoej
exspjphugqhoejhzubxgjoojhgxohxghoejhsxuqhi ohnghoejhtuspek

Rjpyxrplc,hjubjshoxhpjjhoejhpexxongb,heuqhqsnrjghngoxhoejhtuspe,hugq
bxohoejhexspjphpo flhnghoejht qk

“Qutghoejhajyyxz!”hYjrnghpunqhoxhentpjya,huphejhzjgohiuflhoxhoej
fussnubjhoeuoheuqhp glhnghoejhtnsjkh“Zeuohqnqhcx hqsnrjhnghaxs?”hej
punqhoxhenthqscyc,hugqhfuyyngbhoejhfxufetug,hejhijbughm yyngbhoej
exspjphx ok

Yjrnghzuphrjvjqhixoehuohijngbhengqjsjqhasxthpexxongbhugqhuohenphexspjp
bjoongbhpo flhnghoejht q,hugqhponyyhtxsjhuohoejhaufohoeuohgjnoejs
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehgxshRjpyxrplchejymjqhenthugqhoejhfxufetughox
 geusgjpphoejhexspjphugqhbjohoejthx o,hpngfjhgjnoejshxahoejtheuqhoej
pynbeojpohgxonxghxaheusgjppngbkhZnoex ohrx fepuangbhuhpcyyuiyjhnghsjmyc
oxhRuppjglu’phmsxojpouonxgphoeuohnoheuqhijjghw nojhqschoejsj,hYjrng
zxsljqhnghpnyjgfjhznoehoejhfxufetughuohjvosnfuongbhoejhexspjpkhI o
oejg,huphejhbxohzusthuohoejhzxslhugqhpuzhexzhuppnq x pychRjpyxrplchzup
o bbngbhuohoejhzubxgjoojhichxgjhxahoejht q-b usqp,hpxhoeuohejhisxljhno
ngqjjq,hYjrnghiyutjqhentpjyahaxsheurngbh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxa
cjpojsquc’phajjyngbphijjghoxxhfxyqhoxhRjpyxrplc,hugqhosnjqhoxhij
musonf yusychbjgnuyhpxhuphoxhptxxoehxrjshenphfenyyngjppkhZejg
jrjscoengbheuqhijjghm ohsnbeo,hugqhoejhfussnubjheuqhijjghisx beohiufl
oxhoejhsxuq,hYjrngheuqhoejhy gfehpjsrjqk

“_Ixghumméono—ixggjhfxgpfnjgfj!hFjhmx yjohruhoxtijsh. pw ’u haxgqhqj
tjphixoojp_,”hRuppjglu,hzexheuqhsjfxrjsjqhenphpmnsnop,hw xojqhoej
Asjgfehpucngbhuphejhangnpejqhenphpjfxgqhfenfljgkh“Zjyy,hgxzhx s
osx iyjphusjhxrjs,hgxzhjrjscoengb’phbxngbhoxhbxhzjyykhXgyc,hoxhuoxgj
axshtchpngp,hN’thix gqhoxhpnohxghoejhixvkhOeuo’phpx?hje?hGx,hgx!hN’yy
ijhcx shU oxtjqxgkhCx hpeuyyhpjjhexzhN’yyhbjohcx huyxgb,”hejhugpzjsjq,
gxohyjoongbhbxhoejhsjng,hzejghYjrnghijbbjqhenthoxhyjohoejhfxufetug
qsnrjkh“Gx,hNht pohuoxgjhaxshtchpngp,hugqhN’thrjschfxtaxsouiyjhxghoej
ixvk”hUgqhejhqsxrjk

Yjrnghzuphuhynooyjhuasunqhejhzx yqhjveu pohoejhexspjp,hjpmjfnuyychoej
fejpog o,hzexthejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhoxhexyqhng;hi oh gfxgpfnx pychej
ajyyh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahenphbunjochugqhynpojgjqhoxhoejhpxgbphej
pugbhuyyhoejhzuchxghoejhixv,hxshoejhqjpfsnmonxgphugqhsjmsjpjgouonxgphej
burjhxahqsnrngbhnghoejhJgbynpehaupenxg,hax s-ng-eugq;hugqhnohzuphnghoej
rjschijpohxahpmnsnophoeuohuaojshy gfehoejchqsxrjhoxhoejhBrxdqcxrhtuspek


Feumojsh10

Ruppjgluhqsxrjhoejhexspjphpxhptusoychoeuohoejchsjufejqhoejhtuspehoxx
jusyc,hzenyjhnohzuphponyyhexok

Uphoejchqsjzhgjushoenphtxsjhntmxsougohtuspe,hoejhfenjahunthxahoejns
jvmjqnonxg,hYjrnghfx yqhgxohejymhfxgpnqjsngbhexzhejhfx yqhbjohsnqhxa
RuppjgluhugqhijhasjjhnghenphtxrjtjgopkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehjrnqjgoyc
euqhoejhputjhqjpnsj,hugqhxghenphaufjhYjrnghpuzhoejhyxxlhxahugvnjoc
uyzucphmsjpjgohnghuhos jhpmxsoptughzejghijbnggngbhpexxongb,hoxbjoejs
znoehuhfjsounghbxxq-e txsjqhpycgjpphmjf ynushoxhentk

“Exzhpeuyyhzjhbx?hNo’phuhpmyjgqnqhtuspe,hNhpjj,hugqhoejsjhusjheuzlp,”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hmxngongbhoxhozxhbsjuohinsqphexrjsngbhxrjshoej
sjjqpkh“Zejsjhoejsjhusjheuzlp,hoejsjhnphp sjhoxhijhbutjk”

“Gxz,hbjgoyjtjg,”hpunqhYjrng,hm yyngbh mhenphixxophugqhjvutngngbhoej
yxflhxahenphb ghznoehsuoejshuhbyxxtchjvmsjppnxg,h“qxhcx hpjjhoexpj
sjjqp?”hEjhmxngojqhoxhughxupnphxahiyuflnpehbsjjghnghoejhe bjheuya-txzg
zjohtjuqxzhoeuohposjofejqhuyxgbhoejhsnbeohiuglhxahoejhsnrjskh“Oejhtuspe
ijbngphejsj,hposunbeohnghasxgohxah p,hqxhcx hpjj—zejsjhnohnphbsjjgjs?
Asxthejsjhnohs gphoxhoejhsnbeohzejsjhoejhexspjphusj;hoejsjhusjhisjjqngb
myufjphoejsj,hugqhbsx pj,hugqhuyyhsx gqhoexpjhsjjqphuphaushuphoeuo
uyqjs,hugqhsnbeoh mhoxhoejhtnyykhXrjshoejsj,hqxhcx hpjj,hzejsjhoej
mxxyphusj?hOeuo’phoejhijpohmyufjkhOejsjhNhxgfjhpexohpjrjgojjghpgnmjk
Zj’yyhpjmusuojhznoehoejhqxbphugqhbxhnghqnaajsjgohqnsjfonxgp,hugqhoejg
tjjohxrjshoejsjhuohoejhtnyyk”

“Zjyy,hzenfehpeuyyhbxhoxhyjaohugqhzenfehoxhsnbeo?”hupljqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofekh“No’phznqjshoxhoejhsnbeo;hcx hozxhbxhoeuohzuchugqhN’yy
ouljhoejhyjao,”hejhpunqhznoehummusjgohfusjyjppgjppk

“Fumnouy!hzj’yyhtuljhoejhinbbjshiub!hCjp,hfxtjhuyxgb,hfxtjhuyxgb!”
Ruppjgluhjvfyuntjqk

Yjrnghfx yqhqxhgxoengbhi ohubsjj,hugqhoejchqnrnqjqk

Uphpxxghuphoejchjgojsjqhoejhtuspe,hoejhozxhqxbphijbughe gongbhuix o
oxbjoejshugqhtuqjhoxzusqphoejhbsjjg,hpyntj-fxrjsjqhmxxykhYjrnghlgjz
Yuplu’phtjoexq,hzuschugqhngqjangnoj;hejhlgjzhoejhmyufjhoxxhugqhjvmjfojq
uhzexyjhfxrjchxahpgnmjk

“Rjpyxrplc,hijpnqjhtj,hzuylhijpnqjhtj!”hejhpunqhnghuhaungohrxnfjhoxhenp
fxtmugnxghpmyupengbhnghoejhzuojshijengqhentkhYjrnghfx yqhgxohejym
ajjyngbhughngojsjpohnghoejhqnsjfonxghenphb ghzuphmxngojq,huaojshoeuo
fup uyhpexohgjushoejhLxymjgplchtuspek

“Xe,hNhzxg’ohbjohnghcx shzuc,hqxg’ohosx iyjhuix ohtjk”

I ohYjrnghfx yqhgxohejymhosx iyngb,hugqhsjfuyyjqhLnooc’phzxsqphuo
musongb:h“Tngqhcx hqxg’ohpexxohxgjhugxoejsk”hOejhqxbphfutjhgjusjshugq
gjusjs,hmuppjqhjufehxoejs,hjufehm sp ngbhnophxzghpfjgokhOejhjvmjfouonxg
xahpgnmjhzuphpxhngojgpjhoeuohoxhYjrnghoejhpw jyfengbhpx gqhxahenphxzg
ejjy,huphejhqsjzhnoh mhx ohxahoejhtnsj,hpjjtjqhoxhijhoejhfuyyhxahu
pgnmj,hugqhejhfy ofejqhugqhmsjppjqhoejhyxflhxahenphb gk

“Iugb!hiugb!”hpx gqjqhuytxpohnghenphjuskhRuppjgluheuqhansjqhuohuhayxfl
xahq flphzenfehzuphexrjsngbhxrjshoejhtuspehugqhaycngbhuohoeuohtxtjgo
oxzusqphoejhpmxsoptjg,haushx ohxahsugbjkhIjaxsjhYjrngheuqhontjhoxhyxxl
sx gq,hoejsjhzuphoejhzenshxahxgjhpgnmj,hugxoejs,huhoensq,hugqhpxtj
jnbeohtxsjhsxpjhxgjhuaojshugxoejsk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehenohxgjhuohoejhrjschtxtjgohzejghnohzuphijbnggngb
nophdnbdubhtxrjtjgop,hugqhoejhpgnmjhajyyhnghuhejumhngoxhoejht qk
Xiyxgplchuntjqhqjynijsuojychuohugxoejs,hponyyhaycngbhyxzhnghoejhsjjqp,
ugqhoxbjoejshznoehoejhsjmxsohxahoejhpexo,hoeuohpgnmjhoxxhajyy,hugqhno
fx yqhijhpjjghay oojsngbhx ohzejsjhoejhpjqbjheuqhijjghf o,hnoph ge so
zngbhpexzngbhzenojhijgjuoek

Yjrnghzuphgxohpxhy flc:hejhuntjqhuohenphanspohinsqhoxxhyxz,hugqhtnppjq;
ejhuntjqhuohnohubung,h. pohuphnohzuphsnpngb,hi ohuohoeuohngpougo
ugxoejshpgnmjhayjzh mhuohenphrjschajjo,hqnposufongbhenthpxhoeuohej
tnppjqhubungk

Zenyjhoejchzjsjhyxuqngbhoejnshb gp,hugxoejshpgnmjhsxpj,hugqhRjpyxrplc,
zexheuqheuqhontjhoxhyxuqhubung,hpjgohozxhfeusbjphxahptuyy-pexohngoxhoej
zuojskhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehmnfljqh mhenphpgnmj,hugqhznoehpmuslyngbhjcjp
yxxljqhuohYjrngk

“Zjyy,hgxzhyjoh phpjmusuoj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhyntmngbhxg
enphyjaohaxxo,hexyqngbhenphb ghnghsjuqngjpphugqhzenpoyngbhoxhenphqxb,
ejhzuyljqhxaahnghxgjhqnsjfonxgkhYjrnghugqhRjpyxrplchzuyljqhnghoej
xoejsk

NohuyzucpheummjgjqhznoehYjrnghoeuohzejghenphanspohpexophzjsjhuhauny sj
ejhbxohexohugqhx ohxahojtmjs,hugqhpexohiuqychoejhzexyjhquckhPxhnohzup
oeuohquckhOejhpgnmjhpexzjqhoejtpjyrjphnghg tijspkhOejchljmohaycngbh m
asxth. poh gqjshoejhqxbp,hasxth gqjshoejhpmxsoptjg’phyjbp,hugqhYjrng
tnbeoheurjhsjosnjrjqhenphnyyhy flkhI ohoejhtxsjhejhpexo,hoejhtxsjhej
ajyohqnpbsufjqhnghoejhjcjphxahRjpyxrplc,hzexhljmohmxmmngbhuzuchtjssnyc
ugqhngqnpfsntnguojyc,hlnyyngbhgxoengb,hugqhgxohnghoejhpynbeojpohuiupejq
ichenphnyyhp ffjppkhYjrng,hnghajrjsnpeheupoj,hfx yqhgxohsjposung
entpjya,hbxohtxsjhugqhtxsjhx ohxahojtmjs,hugqhjgqjqhichpexxongbhuytxpo
znoex ohuhexmjhxahenoongbkhYuplu,hngqjjq,hpjjtjqhoxh gqjspougqhoenpk
Pejhijbughyxxlngbhtxsjhyugb nqyc,hugqhbudjqhiuflhuohoejhpmxsoptjg,hup
nohzjsj,hznoehmjsmyjvnochxshsjmsxufehnghejshjcjpkhPexophaxyyxzjqhpexop
nghsumnqhp ffjppnxgkhOejhptxljhxahoejhmxzqjshe gbhuix ohoejhpmxsoptjg,
zenyjhnghoejhbsjuohsxxtchgjohxahoejhbutjhiubhoejsjhzjsjhxgychoesjj
ynbeohynooyjhpgnmjkhUgqhxahoejpjhxgjheuqhijjghlnyyjqhichRjpyxrplc
uyxgj,hugqhxgjhichixoehxahoejthoxbjoejskhTjugzenyjhasxthoejhxoejshpnqj
xahoejhtuspehfutjhoejhpx gqhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phpexop,hgxo
asjw jgo,hi o,huphYjrnghaugfnjq,hzjyy-qnsjfojq,haxshuytxpohuaojshjufe
oejchejusqh“Lsul,hLsul,h_ummxsoj_!”

OenphjvfnojqhYjrnghponyyhtxsjkhOejhpgnmjhzjsjhayxuongbhfxgong uyychng
oejhunshxrjshoejhsjjqpkhOejnshzenssngbhzngbphfyxpjhoxhoejhjusoe,hugq
oejnsheuspehfsnjphenbehnghoejhuns,hfx yqhijhejusqhxghuyyhpnqjp;hoej
pgnmjhoeuoheuqhsnpjghanspohugqhayxzgh mhngoxhoejhuns,hpjooyjqhubung
ijaxsjhoejhpmxsoptjgkhNgpojuqhxahozxheuzlphoejsjhzjsjhgxzhqxdjgphxa
oejthexrjsngbhznoehpesnyyhfsnjphxrjshoejhtuspek

Uaojshzuylngbhoesx behoejhyusbjsheuyahxahoejhtuspe,hYjrnghugqhRjpyxrplc
sjufejqhoejhmyufjhzejsjhoejhmjupugop’htxzngb-bsupphzuphqnrnqjqhngox
yxgbhposnmphsjufengbhoxhoejhsjjqp,htusljqhxaahnghxgjhmyufjhichoej
osutmyjqhbsupp,hnghugxoejshichuhmuoehtxzghoesx behnokhEuyahxahoejpj
posnmpheuqhuysjuqchijjghtxzgk

Oex behoejsjhzuphgxohpxht fehexmjhxahangqngbhinsqphnghoejh gf ohmusohup
oejhf ohmuso,hYjrngheuqhmsxtnpjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxhtjjohent,hugq
pxhejhzuyljqhxghznoehenphfxtmugnxghoesx behoejhf ohugqh gf ohmuofejpk

“En,hpmxsoptjg!”hpex ojqhxgjhxahuhbsx mhxahmjupugop,hpnoongbhxghug
 geusgjppjqhfuso;h“fxtjhugqheurjhpxtjhy gfehznoeh p!hEurjhuhqsxmhxa
zngj!”

Yjrnghyxxljqhsx gqk

“Fxtjhuyxgb,hno’phuyyhsnbeo!”hpex ojqhuhbxxq-e txsjq-yxxlngbhijusqjq
mjupugohznoehuhsjqhaufj,hpexzngbhenphzenojhojjoehnghuhbsng,hugqhexyqngb
 mhuhbsjjgnpehixooyjhoeuohayupejqhnghoejhp gynbeok

“_W ’jpo-fjhw ’nyphqnpjgo_?”hupljqhRjpyxrplck

“Oejchngrnojhcx hoxheurjhpxtjhrxqlukhTxpohynljychoejc’rjhijjghqnrnqngb
oejhtjuqxzhngoxhyxopkhNhpex yqheurjhpxtj,”hpunqhYjrng,hgxohznoex ohpxtj
b nyj,hexmngbhRjpyxrplchzx yqhijhojtmojqhichoejhrxqlu,hugqhzx yqhbx
uzuchoxhoejtk

“Zechqxhoejchxaajshno?”

“Xe,hoejc’sjhtjssc-tulngbkhSjuyyc,hcx hpex yqh.xnghoejtkhCx hzx yqhij
ngojsjpojqk”

“_Uyyxgp,hf’jpohf snj v_k”

“Cx hbx,hcx hbx,hcx ’yyhangqhoejhzuchoxhoejhtnyy!”hfsnjqhYjrng,hugq
yxxlngbhsx gqhejhmjsfjnrjqhznoehpuonpaufonxghoeuohRjpyxrplc,hijgohugq
po tiyngbhznoehzjusngjpp,hexyqngbhenphb ghx ohuohust’phyjgboe,hzup
tulngbhenphzuchx ohxahoejhtuspehoxzusqphoejhmjupugopk

“Cx hfxtjhoxx!”hoejhmjupugophpex ojqhoxhYjrngkh“Gjrjshajus!hCx houpoj
x shfulj!”

Yjrnghajyohuhposxgbhngfynguonxghoxhqsnglhuhynooyjhrxqluhugqhoxhjuohpxtj
isjuqkhEjhzuphjveu pojq,hugqhajyohnohuhbsjuohjaaxsohoxhqsubhenp
poubbjsngbhyjbphx ohxahoejhtnsj,hugqhaxshuhtng ojhejhejpnouojqkhI o
YupluhzuphpjoongbkhUgqhnttjqnuojychuyyhenphzjusngjpphrugnpejq,hugqhej
zuyljqhynbeoychoesx behoejhpzutmhoxzusqphoejhqxbkhUhpgnmjhayjzh mhuo
enphajjo;hejhansjqhugqhlnyyjqhnokhYupluhponyyhmxngojqk—“Ajofehno!”
Ugxoejshinsqhayjzh mhfyxpjhoxhoejhqxbkhYjrnghansjqkhI ohnohzuphug
 gy flchquchaxshent;hejhtnppjqhno,hugqhzejghejhzjgohoxhyxxlhaxshoejhxgj
ejheuqhpexo,hejhfx yqhgxohangqhoeuohjnoejskhEjhzugqjsjqhuyyhuix ohoej
sjjqp,hi ohYupluhqnqhgxohijynjrjhejheuqhpexohno,hugqhzejghejhpjgohejs
oxhangqhno,hpejhmsjojgqjqhoxhe gohaxshno,hi ohqnqhgxohsjuyyckhUgqhng
oejhuipjgfjhxahRuppjglu,hxghzexthYjrnghoesjzhoejhiyutjhxahenphauny sj,
oengbphzjgohgxhijoojskhOejsjhzjsjhmyjgochxahpgnmjhponyy,hi ohYjrnghtuqj
xgjhtnpphuaojshugxoejsk

Oejhpyugongbhsucphxahoejhp ghzjsjhponyyhexo;henphfyxoejp,hpxuljq
oesx behznoehmjspmnsuonxg,hpo flhoxhenphixqc;henphyjaohixxoha yyhxa
zuojshzjnbejqhejurnychxghenphyjbhugqhpw juljqhuohjrjschpojm;hoejhpzjuo
sughnghqsxmphqxzghenphmxzqjs-bsntjqhaufj,henphtx oehzupha yyhxahoej
inoojshoupoj,henphgxpjhxahoejhptjyyhxahmxzqjshugqhpoubgugohzuojs,henp
jusphzjsjhsngbngbhznoehoejhngfjppugohzenshxahoejhpgnmj;hejhfx yqhgxo
ox fehoejhpoxflhxahenphb g,hnohzuphpxhexo;henphejusohijuohznoehpexso,
sumnqhoesxip;henpheugqphpexxlhznoehjvfnojtjgo,hugqhenphzjuschyjbp
po tiyjqhugqhpoubbjsjqhxrjshoejhenyyxflphugqhnghoejhpzutm,hi ohponyyhej
zuyljqhxghugqhponyyhejhpexokhUohyupo,huaojshuhqnpbsufja yhtnpp,hej
ay gbhenphb ghugqhenpheuohxghoejhbsx gqk

“Gx,hNht pohfxgosxyhtcpjya,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakhMnflngbh mhenphb ghugq
enpheuo,hejhfuyyjqhYuplu,hugqhzjgohx ohxahoejhpzutmkhZejghejhbxohxghox
qschbsx gqhejhpuohqxzg,hm yyjqhxaahenphixxohugqhjtmonjqhno,hoejghzuyljq
oxhoejhtuspe,hqsuglhpxtjhpoubgugo-oupongbhzuojs,htxnpojgjqhenphi sgngb
exohb g,hugqhzupejqhenphaufjhugqheugqpkhAjjyngbhsjasjpejq,hejhzjgohiufl
oxhoejhpmxohzejsjhuhpgnmjheuqhpjooyjq,hanstychsjpxyrjqhoxhljjmhfxxyk

Ejhosnjqhoxhijhfuyt,hi ohnohzuphoejhputjhubungkhEnphangbjshmsjppjqhoej
fxflhijaxsjhejheuqhouljghuhbxxqhunthuohoejhinsqkhNohbxohzxspjhugq
zxspjk

Ejheuqhxgychanrjhinsqphnghenphbutj-iubhzejghejhzuyljqhx ohxahoejhtuspe
oxzusqphoejhuyqjsphzejsjhejhzuphoxhsj.xnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

Ijaxsjhejhfu beohpnbeohxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofehejhpuzhenphqxbkhLsul
qusojqhx ohasxthijengqhoejhoznpojqhsxxohxahughuyqjs,hiyuflhuyyhxrjs
znoehoejhponglngbhtnsjhxahoejhtuspe,hugqhznoehoejhunshxahuhfxgw jsxs
pgnaajqhuohYuplukhIjengqhLsulhoejsjhfutjhngoxhrnjzhnghoejhpeuqjhxahoej
uyqjshosjjhoejhpeumjychanb sjhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhEjhfutjhoxhtjjo
ent,hsjqhugqhmjspmnsngb,hznoeh gi ooxgjqhgjfliugq,hponyyhyntmngbhnghoej
putjhzuck

“Zjyy?hCx heurjhijjghmxmmngbhuzuc!”hejhpunq,hptnyngbhbxxq-e txsjqyck

“Exzheurjhcx hbxohxg?”hw jsnjqhYjrngkhI ohoejsjhzuphgxhgjjqhoxhupl,haxs
ejheuqhuysjuqchpjjghoejha yyhbutjhiubk

“Xe,hmsjoochaunsk”

Ejheuqhax sojjghinsqpk

“Uhpmyjgqnqhtuspe!hN’rjhgxhqx iohRjpyxrplchbxohnghcx shzuckhNo’p
uzlzusqhoxx,hpexxongbhznoehxgjhqxb,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hox
pxaojghenphosn tmek


Feumojsh11

ZejghYjrnghugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjufejqhoejhmjupugo’phe ohzejsj
Yjrnghuyzucph pjqhoxhpouc,hRjpyxrplchzuphuysjuqchoejsjkhEjhzuphpnoongb
nghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhe o,hfyngbngbhznoehixoeheugqphoxhoejhijgfehasxt
zenfehejhzuphijngbhm yyjqhichuhpxyqnjs,hoejhisxoejshxahoejhmjupugo’p
znaj,hzexhzuphejymngbhenthxaahznoehenphtnschixxopkhRjpyxrplchzup
yu bengbhenphngajfonx p,hbxxq-e txsjqhyu bek

“N’rjhxgych. pohfxtjkh_Nyphxgohéoéhfeustugop_kh. pohaugfc,hoejchburjhtj
qsngl,hajqhtj!hP fehisjuq,hnohzuphjvw npnoj!h_Qéynfnj v!_hUgqhoej
rxqlu,hNhgjrjshoupojqhugchijoojskhUgqhoejchzx yqhgxohouljhuhmjggchaxs
ugcoengbkhUgqhoejchljmohpucngb:h‘Jvf pjhx shextjychzucpk’”

“Zeuohpex yqhoejchouljhugcoengbhaxs?hOejchzjsjhjgojsoungngbhcx ,hoxhij
p sjkhQxhcx hp mmxpjhoejchljjmhrxqluhaxshpuyj?”hpunqhoejhpxyqnjs,
p ffjjqngbhuohyupohnghm yyngbhoejhpxuljqhixxohxaahoejhiyufljgjq
poxflngbk

Nghpmnojhxahoejhqnsongjpphxahoejhe o,hzenfehzuphuyyht qqnjqhichoejns
ixxophugqhoejhanyoechqxbphynflngbhoejtpjyrjphfyjug,hugqhoejhptjyyhxa
tuspeht qhugqhmxzqjshoeuohanyyjqhoejhsxxt,hugqhoejhuipjgfjhxahlgnrjp
ugqhaxslp,hoejhmusochqsuglhoejnshojuhugqhuojhoejnshp mmjshznoehuhsjynpe
xgychlgxzghoxhpmxsoptjgkhZupejqhugqhfyjug,hoejchzjgohngoxhuheuc-iusg
pzjmohsjuqchaxshoejt,hzejsjhoejhfxufetugheuqhijjghtulngbh mhijqphaxs
oejhbjgoyjtjgk

Oex behnohzuphq pl,hgxohxgjhxahoejthzugojqhoxhbxhoxhpyjjmk

Uaojshzurjsngbhutxgbhsjtngnpfjgfjphugqhugjfqxojphxahb gp,hxahqxbp,hugq
xahaxstjshpexxongbhmusonjp,hoejhfxgrjspuonxghsjpojqhxghuhoxmnfhoeuo
ngojsjpojqhuyyhxahoejtkhUaojshRuppjgluheuqhpjrjsuyhontjphxrjshjvmsjppjq
enphummsjfnuonxghxahoenphqjynbeoa yhpyjjmngbhmyufjhutxgbhoejhasubsugo
euc,hoenphqjynbeoa yhisxljghfusoh(ejhp mmxpjqhnohoxhijhisxljghijfu pj
oejhpeuaopheuqhijjghouljghx o),hxahoejhbxxqhguo sjhxahoejhmjupugophoeuo
euqhosjuojqhenthoxhrxqlu,hxahoejhqxbphzexhyuchuohoejhajjohxahoejns
sjpmjfonrjhtupojsp,hXiyxgplchijbughojyyngbhoejthxahuhqjynbeoa y
pexxongbhmusochuohTuyoe p’p,hzejsjhejheuqhpoucjqhoejhmsjrnx php ttjsk

Tuyoe phzuphuhzjyy-lgxzghfumnouynpo,hzexheuqhtuqjhenphtxgjchic
pmjf yuonxghnghsunyzuchpeusjpkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehqjpfsnijqhzeuo
bsx pjhtxxsphoenphTuyoe pheuqhix beohnghoejhOrjshmsxrngfj,hugqhexzhoejc
zjsjhmsjpjsrjq,hugqhxahoejhfussnubjphugqhqxbfusophnghzenfehoejhpexxongb
musocheuqhijjghqsnrjg,hugqhoejhy gfejxghmurnynxghoeuoheuqhijjghsnbbjq
 mhuohoejhtuspek

“Nhqxg’oh gqjspougqhcx ,”hpunqhYjrng,hpnoongbh mhnghoejheuc;h“exzhnphno
p fehmjxmyjhqxg’ohqnpb pohcx ?hNhfugh gqjspougqhuhy gfehznoehYuanoojhnp
uyyhrjschmyjupugo,hi ohqxg’ohcx hqnpynljh. pohoeuohrjschp tmo x pgjpp?
Uyyhoejpjhmjxmyj,h. pohynljhx shpmnsnohtxgxmxynpophnghxyqhqucp,hbjo
oejnshtxgjchnghuhzuchoeuohbungphoejthoejhfxgojtmohxahjrjscxgjkhOejc
qxg’ohfusjhaxshoejnshfxgojtmo,hugqhoejghoejch pjhoejnshqnpexgjpohbungp
oxhi chxaahoejhfxgojtmohoejcheurjhqjpjsrjqk”

“Mjsajfoychos j!”hfentjqhnghRuppjgluhRjpyxrplckh“Mjsajfoyc!hXiyxgplc,
xahfx spj,hbxjphx ohxah_ixgextnj_,hi ohxoejshmjxmyjhpuc:h‘Zjyy,
Xiyxgplchpoucphznoehoejtk’kkk”

“Gxohuhinohxahnok”hYjrnghfx yqhejushoeuohXiyxgplchzuphptnyngbhuphej
pmxljkh“Nhpntmychqxg’ohfxgpnqjshenthtxsjhqnpexgjpohoeughugchxoejs
zjuyoechtjsfeugohxshgxiyjtugkhOejc’rjhuyyhtuqjhoejnshtxgjchuynlj—ic
oejnshzxslhugqhoejnshngojyynbjgfjk”

“Xe,hichzeuohzxsl?hQxhcx hfuyyhnohzxslhoxhbjohexyqhxahfxgfjppnxgphugq
pmjf yuojhznoehoejt?”

“Xahfx spjhno’phzxslkhZxslhnghoenphpjgpj,hoeuohnahnohzjsjhgxohaxshent
ugqhxoejsphynljhent,hoejsjhzx yqheurjhijjghgxhsunyzucpk”

“I ohoeuo’phgxohzxsl,hynljhoejhzxslhxahuhmjupugohxshuhyjusgjq
msxajppnxgk”

“Bsugojq,hi ohno’phzxslhnghoejhpjgpjhoeuohenphufonrnochmsxq fjphu
sjp yo—oejhsunyzucpkhI ohxahfx spjhcx hoenglhoejhsunyzucph pjyjppk”

“Gx,hoeuo’phugxoejshw jponxg;hNhuthmsjmusjqhoxhuqtnohoeuohoejc’sj
 pja ykhI ohuyyhmsxanohoeuohnphx ohxahmsxmxsonxghoxhoejhyuixshjvmjgqjq
nphqnpexgjpok”

“I ohzexhnphoxhqjangjhzeuohnphmsxmxsonxguoj?”

“Tulngbhmsxanohichqnpexgjpohtjugp,hichosnfljsc,”hpunqhYjrng,hfxgpfnx p
oeuohejhfx yqhgxohqsuzhuhqnpongfohyngjhijozjjghexgjpochugqhqnpexgjpock
“P fehuphiuglngb,haxshngpougfj,”hejhzjgohxgkh“No’phughjrny—oejhutuppngb
xahe bjhaxso gjphznoex ohyuixs,h. pohoejhputjhoengbhuphznoehoejhpmnsno
txgxmxynjp,hno’phxgychoejhaxsthoeuo’phfeugbjqkh_Yjhsxnhjpohtxso,hrnrj
yjhsxn_khGxhpxxgjshzjsjhoejhpmnsnohtxgxmxynjphuixynpejqhoeughoej
sunyzucphfutjh m,hugqhiuglngbhfxtmugnjp;hoeuo,hoxx,hnphmsxanohznoex o
zxslk”

“Cjp,hoeuohtuchuyyhijhrjschos jhugqhfyjrjskkkkhYnjhqxzg,hLsul!”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehfuyyjqhoxhenphqxb,hzexhzuphpfsuofengbhugqho sgngbhxrjshuyy
oejheuckhEjhzuphxirnx pychfxgrngfjqhxahoejhfxssjfogjpphxahenphmxpnonxg,
ugqhpxhouyljqhpjsjgjychugqhznoex oheupojkh“I ohcx heurjhgxohqsuzghoej
yngjhijozjjghexgjpohugqhqnpexgjpohzxslkhOeuohNhsjfjnrjhuhinbbjshpuyusc
oeughtchfenjahfyjsl,hoex behejhlgxzphtxsjhuix ohoejhzxslhoeughN
qx—oeuo’phqnpexgjpo,hNhp mmxpj?”

“Nhfug’ohpuck”

“Zjyy,hi ohNhfughojyyhcx :hcx shsjfjnrngbhpxtjhanrjhoex pugq,hyjo’p
puc,haxshcx shzxslhxghoejhyugq,hzenyjhx shexpo,hoejhmjupugohejsj,
exzjrjsheusqhejhzxslp,hfughgjrjshbjohtxsjhoeughanaochsx iyjp,hnph. po
uphqnpexgjpohuphtchjusgngbhtxsjhoeughtchfenjahfyjsl,hugqhTuyoe p
bjoongbhtxsjhoeughuhpouonxg-tupojskhGx,hw nojhoejhfxgosusc;hNhpjjhoeuo
pxfnjochouljph mhuhpxsohxahugoubxgnponfhuoono qjhoxhoejpjhmjxmyj,hzenfe
nph oojsychiupjyjpp,hugqhNhaugfchoejsj’phjgrchuohoejhixooxthxahnokkkk”

“Gx,hoeuo’ph gauns,”hpunqhRjpyxrplc;h“exzhfx yqhjgrchfxtjhng?hOejsjhnp
pxtjoengbhgxohgnfjhuix ohoeuohpxsohxahi pngjppk”

“Cx hpuc,”hYjrnghzjgohxg,h“oeuohno’ph g. pohaxshtjhoxhsjfjnrjhanrj
oex pugq,hzenyjhoejhmjupugoheuphanaoc;hoeuo’phos jkhNohnph gauns,hugqhN
ajjyhno,hi okkkk”

“NohsjuyychnpkhZechnphnohzjhpmjgqhx shontjhsnqngb,hqsnglngb,hpexxongb,
qxngbhgxoengb,hzenyjhoejchusjhaxsjrjshuohzxsl?”hpunqhRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,hxirnx pychaxshoejhanspohontjhnghenphynajhsjayjfongbhxghoej
w jponxg,hugqhfxgpjw jgoychfxgpnqjsngbhnohznoehmjsajfohpngfjsnock

“Cjp,hcx hajjyhno,hi ohcx hqxg’ohbnrjhenthcx shmsxmjsoc,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hngojgonxguyyc,huphnohpjjtjq,hmsxrxlngbhYjrngk

Oejsjheuqhusnpjghxahyuojhpxtjoengbhynljhuhpjfsjohugoubxgnpthijozjjghoej
ozxhisxoejsp-ng-yuz;huphoex be,hpngfjhoejcheuqhtussnjqhpnpojsp,huhlngq
xahsnruyscheuqhpms gbh mhijozjjghoejthuphoxhzenfehzuphxsqjsngbhenphynaj
ijpo,hugqhgxzhoenphexponynochpexzjqhnopjyahnghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,huphno
ijbughoxhouljhuhmjspxguyhgxojk

“Nhqxg’ohbnrjhnohuzuc,hijfu pjhgxhxgjhqjtugqphoeuohasxthtj,hugqhnahN
zugojqhox,hNhfx yqhgxohbnrjhnohuzuc,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,h“ugqheurjhgxhxgj
oxhbnrjhnohoxk”

“Bnrjhnohoxhoenphmjupugo,hejhzx yqhgxohsja pjhnok”

“Cjp,hi ohexzhuthNhoxhbnrjhnoh m?hUthNhoxhbxhoxhenthugqhtuljhuhqjjqhxa
fxgrjcugfj?”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz;hi ohnahcx husjhfxgrngfjqhoeuohcx heurjhgxhsnbeokkkk”

“N’thgxohuohuyyhfxgrngfjqkhXghoejhfxgosusc,hNhajjyhNheurjhgxhsnbeohox
bnrjhnoh m,hoeuohNheurjhq onjphixoehoxhoejhyugqhugqhoxhtchautnyck”

“Gx,hjvf pjhtj,hi ohnahcx hfxgpnqjshoenphngjw uynochnph g. po,hzechnp
nohcx hqxg’ohufohuffxsqngbyc?kkk”

“Zjyy,hNhqxhufohgjbuonrjychxghoeuohnqju,hpxhaushuphgxohoscngbhox
ngfsjupjhoejhqnaajsjgfjhxahmxpnonxghjvnpongbhijozjjghenthugqhtjk”

“Gx,hjvf pjhtj,hoeuo’phuhmusuqxvk”

“Cjp,hoejsj’phpxtjoengbhxahuhpxmenposchuix ohoeuo,”hRjpyxrplchubsjjqk
“Ue!hx shexpo;hpxhcx ’sjhgxohupyjjmhcjo?”hejhpunqhoxhoejhmjupugohzex
futjhngoxhoejhiusg,hxmjgngbhoejhfsjulngbhqxxskh“Exzhnphnohcx ’sjhgxo
upyjjm?”

“Gx,hexz’phxgjhoxhpyjjm!hNhoex beohx shbjgoyjtjghzx yqhijhupyjjm,hi ohN
ejusqhoejthfeuoojsngbkhNhzugohoxhbjohuhexxlhasxthejsjkhPejhzxg’ohinoj?”
ejhuqqjq,hpojmmngbhfu onx pychznoehenphiusjhajjok

“Ugqhzejsjhusjhcx hbxngbhoxhpyjjm?”

“Zjhusjhbxngbhx ohaxshoejhgnbeohznoehoejhijupopk”

“Ue,hzeuohuhgnbeo!”hpunqhRjpyxrplc,hyxxlngbhx ohuohoejhjqbjhxahoejhe o
ugqhoejh geusgjppjqhzubxgjoojhoeuohfx yqhijhpjjghnghoejhaungohynbeohxa
oejhjrjgngbhbyxzhnghoejhbsjuohasutjhxahoejhxmjghqxxspkh“I ohynpojg,
oejsjhusjhzxtjg’phrxnfjphpngbngb,hugq,hxghtchzxsq,hgxohiuqychoxxkhZex’p
oeuohpngbngb,htchasnjgq?”

“Oeuo’phoejhtunqphasxtheusqhichejsjk”

“Yjo’phbx,hyjo’pheurjhuhzuyl!hZjhpeug’ohbxhoxhpyjjm,hcx hlgxzk
Xiyxgplc,hfxtjhuyxgb!”

“Nahxgjhfx yqhxgychqxhixoe,hynjhejsjhugqhbx,”hugpzjsjqhXiyxgplc,
posjofengbkh“No’phfumnouyhycngbhejsjk”

“Zjyy,hNhpeuyyhbxhichtcpjya,”hpunqhRjpyxrplc,hbjoongbh mhjubjsyc,hugq
m oongbhxghenphpexjphugqhpoxflngbpkh“Bxxq-icj,hbjgoyjtjgkhNahno’pha g,
N’yyhajofehcx khCx ’rjhosjuojqhtjhoxhpxtjhbxxqhpmxso,hugqhNhzxg’o
axsbjohcx k”

“Ejhsjuyychnphuhfumnouyhajyyxz,hnpg’ohej?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
zejghRjpyxrplcheuqhbxgjhx ohugqhoejhmjupugoheuqhfyxpjqhoejhqxxshuaojs
entk

“Cjp,hfumnouy,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hponyyhoenglngbhxahoejhp i.jfohxahoejns
fxgrjspuonxgh. pohijaxsjkhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejheuqhfyjusyc
jvmsjppjqhenphoex beophugqhajjyngbphoxhoejhijpohxahenphfumufnoc,hugq
cjohixoehxahoejt,hposunbeoaxszusqhtjghugqhgxohaxxyp,heuqhpunqhznoehxgj
rxnfjhoeuohejhzuphfxtaxsongbhentpjyahznoehpxmenposnjpkhOenp
qnpfxgfjsojqhentk

“No’ph. pohoenp,htchqjushixckhXgjht pohqxhxgjhxahozxhoengbp:hjnoejs
uqtnohoeuohoejhjvnpongbhxsqjshxahpxfnjochnph. po,hugqhoejghponflh mhaxs
xgj’phsnbeophnghno;hxshuflgxzyjqbjhoeuohcx husjhjg.xcngbh g. po
msnrnyjbjp,huphNhqx,hugqhoejghjg.xchoejthugqhijhpuonpanjqk”

“Gx,hnahnohzjsjh g. po,hcx hfx yqhgxohjg.xchoejpjhuqrugoubjphugqhij
puonpanjq—uohyjupohNhfx yqhgxokhOejhbsjuohoengbhaxshtjhnphoxhajjyhoeuo
N’thgxohoxhiyutjk”

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuc,hzechgxohbxhuaojshuyy?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
jrnqjgoychzjuschxahoejhposunghxahoex beokh“Zjhpeug’ohbxhoxhpyjjm,hcx 
lgxzkhFxtj,hyjo’phbx!”

YjrnghqnqhgxohugpzjskhZeuohoejcheuqhpunqhnghoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hoeuohej
ufojqh. poychxgychnghuhgjbuonrjhpjgpj,huipxsijqhenphoex beopkh“Fughno
ijhoeuohno’phxgychmxppniyjhoxhijh. pohgjbuonrjyc?”hejhzuphuplngb
entpjyak

“Exzhposxgbhoejhptjyyhxahoejhasjpeheuchnp,hoex be,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hbjoongbh mkh“Oejsj’phgxohuhfeugfjhxahpyjjmngbkhRuppjglu
euphijjghbjoongbh mhpxtjha ghoejsjkhQxhcx hejushoejhyu bengbhugqhenp
rxnfj?hEuqg’ohzjhijoojshbx?hFxtjhuyxgb!”

“Gx,hN’thgxohfxtngb,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk

“P sjychoeuo’phgxohuhtuoojshxahmsngfnmyjhoxx,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hptnyngb,huphejhajyohuix ohnghoejhquslhaxshenphfumk

“No’phgxohuhtuoojshxahmsngfnmyj,hi ohzechpex yqhNhbx?”

“I ohqxhcx hlgxzhcx husjhmsjmusngbhosx iyjhaxshcx spjya,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hangqngbhenphfumhugqhbjoongbh mk

“Exzhpx?”

“Qxhcx hp mmxpjhNhqxg’ohpjjhoejhyngjhcx ’rjhouljgh mhznoehcx shznaj?hN
ejusqhexzhno’phuhw jponxghxahoejhbsjuojpohfxgpjw jgfj,hzejoejshxshgxo
cx ’sjhoxhijhuzuchaxshuhfx myjhxahqucp’hpexxongbkhOeuo’phuyyhrjschzjyy
uphughnqcyynfhjmnpxqj,hi ohaxshcx shzexyjhynajhoeuohzxg’ohugpzjskhUhtug
t pohijhngqjmjgqjgo;hejheuphenphtupf yngjhngojsjpopkhUhtugheuphoxhij
tugyc,”hpunqhXiyxgplc,hxmjgngbhoejhqxxsk

“Nghzeuohzuc?hOxhbxhs ggngbhuaojshpjsrugohbnsyp?”hpunqhYjrngk

“Zechgxo,hnahnohut pjphent?h_Çuhgjhonsjhmuphàhfxgpéw jgfj_khNohzxg’ohqx
tchznajhugcheust,hugqhno’yyhut pjhtjkhOejhbsjuohoengbhnphoxhsjpmjfohoej
pugfonochxahoejhextjkhOejsjhpex yqhijhgxoengbhnghoejhextjkhI ohqxg’o
onjhcx shxzgheugqpk”

“Mjseumphpx,”hpunqhYjrnghqscyc,hugqhejho sgjqhxghenphpnqjkh“Oxtxssxz,
jusyc,hNhzugohoxhbxhpexxongb,hugqhNhzxg’ohzuljhugcxgj,hugqhpeuyyhpjo
xaahuohqucisjulk”

“_Tjppnj sp,hrjgjdhrnoj!_”hoejchejusqhoejhrxnfjhxahRjpyxrplchfxtngb
iuflkh“_Feustugoj!_hN’rjhtuqjhp fehuhqnpfxrjsckh_Feustugoj!_huhmjsajfo
Bsjofejg,hugqhN’rjhuysjuqchtuqjhasnjgqphznoehejskhSjuyyc,hjvfjjqngbyc
msjooc,”hejhqjfyusjqhnghuhoxgjhxahummsxruy,huphoex behpejheuqhijjghtuqj
msjoochjgonsjychxghenphuffx go,hugqhejhzuphjvmsjppngbhenphpuonpaufonxg
znoehoejhjgojsoungtjgohoeuoheuqhijjghmsxrnqjqhaxshentk

Yjrnghmsjojgqjqhoxhijhupyjjm,hzenyjhXiyxgplc,hm oongbhxghenphpynmmjsp,
ugqhynbeongbhuhfnbus,hzuyljqhx ohxahoejhiusg,hugqhpxxghoejnshrxnfjp
zjsjhyxpok

AxshuhyxgbhzenyjhYjrnghfx yqhgxohbjohoxhpyjjmkhEjhejusqhoejhexspjp
t gfengbheuc,hoejghejhejusqhoejhmjupugohugqhenphjyqjshixchbjoongbhsjuqc
axshoejhgnbeo,hugqhbxngbhxaahaxshoejhgnbeohzuofehznoehoejhijupop,hoejg
ejhejusqhoejhpxyqnjshussugbngbhenphijqhxghoejhxoejshpnqjhxahoejhiusg,
znoehenphgjmejz,hoejhcx gbjshpxghxahoejnshmjupugohexpokhEjhejusqhoej
ixchnghenphpesnyyhynooyjhrxnfjhojyyngbhenph gfyjhzeuohejhoex beohuix o
oejhqxbp,hzexhpjjtjqhoxhenthe bjhugqhojssniyjhfsjuo sjp,hugqhuplngb
zeuohoejhqxbphzjsjhbxngbhoxhe gohgjvohquc,hugqhoejhpxyqnjshnghuhe plc,
pyjjmchrxnfj,hojyyngbhenthoejhpmxsoptjghzjsjhbxngbhnghoejhtxsgngbhox
oejhtuspe,hugqhzx yqhpexxohznoehoejnshb gp;hugqhoejg,hoxhfejflhoej
ixc’phw jponxgp,hejhpunq,h“Bxhoxhpyjjm,hRuplu;hbxhoxhpyjjm,hxshcx ’yy
fuofehno,”hugqhpxxghuaojshejhijbughpgxsngbhentpjya,hugqhjrjscoengbhzup
ponyykhEjhfx yqhxgychejushoejhpgxsohxahoejhexspjp,hugqhoejhb oo suyhfsc
xahuhpgnmjk

“Nphnohsjuyychxgychgjbuonrj?”hejhsjmjuojqhoxhentpjyakh“Zjyy,hzeuohxa
no?hNo’phgxohtchau yok”hUgqhejhijbughoenglngbhuix ohoejhgjvohquck

“OxtxssxzhN’yyhbxhx ohjusyc,hugqhN’yyhtuljhuhmxngohxahljjmngbhfxxyk
Oejsjhusjhyxophxahpgnmj;hugqhoejsjhusjhbsx pjhoxxkhZejghNhfxtjhiufl
oejsj’yyhijhoejhgxojhasxthLnoockhCjp,hPonruhtuchijhsnbeo,hN’thgxohtugyc
znoehejs,hN’thonjqhoxhejshumsxg-posngbpkkkkhZjyy,hnohfug’ohijhejymjq!
Gjbuonrjhubungkkkk”

Euyahupyjjm,hejhejusqhoejhyu beojshugqhtnsoea yhouylhxahRjpyxrplchugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofekhAxshughngpougohejhxmjgjqhenphjcjp:hoejhtxxghzup
 m,hugqhnghoejhxmjghqxxszuc,hisnbeoychynbeojqh mhichoejhtxxgynbeo,hoejc
zjsjhpougqngbhouylngbkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphpucngbhpxtjoengbhxahoej
asjpegjpphxahxgjhbnsy,hfxtmusngbhejshoxhuhasjpeychmjjyjqhg o,hugq
Rjpyxrplchznoehenphngajfonx phyu behzuphsjmjuongbhpxtjhzxsqp,hmsxiuiyc
punqhoxhenthichuhmjupugo:h“Ue,hcx hqxhcx shijpohoxhbjohsx gqhejs!”
Yjrng,heuyahupyjjm,hpunq:

“Bjgoyjtjg,hoxtxssxzhijaxsjhqucynbeo!”hugqhajyyhupyjjmk


Feumojsh12

Zulngbh mhuohjusynjpohquzg,hYjrnghosnjqhoxhzuljhenphfxtmugnxgpk
Ruppjglu,hycngbhxghenphpoxtufe,hznoehxgjhyjbhnghuhpoxflngbhoes pohx o,
zuphpyjjmngbhpxhpx gqychoeuohejhfx yqhjynfnohgxhsjpmxgpjkhXiyxgplc,
euyahupyjjm,hqjfyngjqhoxhbjoh mhpxhjusyckhJrjghYuplu,hzexhzuphupyjjm,
f syjqh mhnghoejheuc,hbxoh mh gznyyngbyc,hugqhyudnychposjofejqhx ohugq
posunbeojgjqhejshengqhyjbphxgjhuaojshoejhxoejskhBjoongbhxghenphixxop
ugqhpoxflngbp,houlngbhenphb g,hugqhfusja yychxmjgngbhoejhfsjulngbhqxxs
xahoejhiusg,hYjrnghzjgohx ohngoxhoejhsxuqkhOejhfxufetjghzjsjhpyjjmngb
nghoejnshfussnubjp,hoejhexspjphzjsjhqxdngbkhXgychxgjhzuphyudnychjuongb
xuop,hqnmmngbhnophgxpjhngoxhoejhtugbjskhNohzuphponyyhbsuchx o-xa-qxxspk

“Zechusjhcx h mhpxhjusyc,htchqjus?”hoejhxyqhzxtug,hoejnshexpojpp,hpunq,
fxtngbhx ohxahoejhe ohugqhuqqsjppngbhenthuaajfonxguojychuphughxyq
asnjgqk

“Bxngbhpexxongb,hbsuggckhQxhNhbxhoenphzuchoxhoejhtuspe?”

“Posunbeohx ohuohoejhiufl;hichx shoesjpengbhayxxs,htchqjus,hugqhejtm
muofejp;hoejsj’phuhynooyjhaxxomuoek”hPojmmngbhfusja yychznoehejs
p gi sgo,hiusjhajjo,hoejhxyqhzxtughfxgq fojqhYjrng,hugqhtxrjqhiuflhoej
ajgfjhaxshenthichoejhoesjpengbhayxxsk

“Posunbeohxghugqhcx ’yyhfxtjhoxhoejhtuspekhX shyuqphqsxrjhoejhfuooyj
oejsjhcjpojsquchjrjgngbk”

YupluhsughjubjsychaxszusqhuyxgbhoejhynooyjhmuoekhYjrnghaxyyxzjqhejs
znoehuhynbeo,hsumnqhpojm,hfxgong uyychyxxlngbhuohoejhplckhEjhexmjqhoej
p ghzx yqhgxohijh mhijaxsjhejhsjufejqhoejhtuspekhI ohoejhp ghqnqhgxo
qjyuckhOejhtxxg,hzenfeheuqhijjghisnbeohzejghejhzjgohx o,hichgxzhpexgj
xgychynljhuhfsjpfjgohxahw nflpnyrjskhOejhmnglhay pehxahquzg,hzenfehxgj
fx yqhgxohejymhpjjngbhijaxsj,hgxzheuqhoxhijhpx beohoxhijhqnpfjsgjqhuo
uyykhZeuohzjsjhijaxsjh gqjangjq,hrub jhiy sphnghoejhqnpougohfx goscpnqj
fx yqhgxzhijhqnpongfoychpjjgkhOejchzjsjhpejurjphxahscjkhOejhqjz,hgxo
rnpniyjhonyyhoejhp ghzuph m,hzjoojqhYjrng’phyjbphugqhenphiyx pjhuixrj
enphijyohnghoejhenbehbsxzngb,hasubsugohejtmhmuofe,hasxthzenfehoej
mxyyjgheuqhuysjuqchauyyjghx okhNghoejhosugpmusjgohponyygjpphxahtxsgngb
oejhptuyyjpohpx gqphzjsjhu qniyjkhUhijjhayjzhichYjrng’phjushznoehoej
zenddngbhpx gqhxahuhi yyjokhEjhyxxljqhfusja yyc,hugqhpuzhuhpjfxgqhugqhu
oensqkhOejchzjsjhuyyhaycngbhasxthoejhijjenrjphijengqhoejhejqbj,hugq
oejchqnpummjusjqhxrjshoejhejtmhmuofehnghoejhqnsjfonxghxahoejhtuspekhOej
muoehyjqhposunbeohoxhoejhtuspekhOejhtuspehfx yqhijhsjfxbgndjqhichoej
tnpohzenfehsxpjhasxthno,hoenfljshnghxgjhmyufjhugqhoenggjshnghugxoejs,
pxhoeuohoejhsjjqphugqhznyyxzhi pejphpzucjqhynljhnpyugqphnghoenphtnpok
Uohoejhjqbjhxahoejhtuspehugqhoejhsxuq,hmjupugohixcphugqhtjg,hzexheuq
ijjghejsqngbhaxshoejhgnbeo,hzjsjhycngb,hugqhnghoejhquzghuyyhzjsjhupyjjm
 gqjshoejnshfxuopkhGxohaushasxthoejthzjsjhoesjjhexiiyjqhexspjpkhXgjhxa
oejthfyugljqhuhfeungkhYupluhzuyljqhijpnqjhejshtupojs,hmsjppngbhuhynooyj
axszusqhugqhyxxlngbhsx gqkhMuppngbhoejhpyjjmngbhmjupugophugqhsjufengb
oejhanspohsjjqp,hYjrnghjvutngjqhenphmnpoxyphugqhyjohenphqxbhxaakhXgjhxa
oejhexspjp,huhpyjjl,hqusl-isxzghoesjj-cjus-xyq,hpjjngbhoejhqxb,hpousojq
uzuc,hpznofejqhnophounyhugqhpgxsojqkhOejhxoejshexspjphoxxhzjsj
asnbeojgjq,hugqhpmyupengbhoesx behoejhzuojshznoehoejnshexiiyjqhyjbp,
ugqhqsuzngbhoejnshexxaphx ohxahoejhoenflht qhznoehuhpw jyfengbhpx gq,
oejchix gqjqhx ohxahoejhtuspekhYupluhpoxmmjq,hyxxlngbhnsxgnfuyychuohoej
exspjphugqhngw nsngbychuohYjrngkhYjrnghmuoojqhYuplu,hugqhzenpoyjqhuphu
pnbghoeuohpejhtnbeohijbngk

Yupluhsugh.xca yychugqhugvnx pychoesx behoejhpy pehoeuohpzucjqh gqjs
ejsk

S ggngbhngoxhoejhtuspehutxgbhoejhautnynushpfjgophxahsxxop,htuspe
myugop,hugqhpyntj,hugqhoejhjvosugjx phptjyyhxahexspjhq gb,hYuplu
qjojfojqhuohxgfjhuhptjyyhoeuohmjsruqjqhoejhzexyjhtuspe,hoejhpfjgohxa
oeuohposxgb-ptjyyngbhinsqhoeuohuyzucphjvfnojqhejshtxsjhoeughugchxoejsk
Ejsjhugqhoejsjhutxgbhoejhtxpphugqhtuspehmyugophoenphpfjgohzuphrjsc
posxgb,hi ohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhqjojstngjhnghzenfehqnsjfonxghnohbsjz
posxgbjshxshaungojskhOxhangqhoejhqnsjfonxg,hpejheuqhoxhbxhausoejshuzuc
asxthoejhzngqkhGxohajjyngbhoejhtxonxghxahejshyjbp,hYupluhix gqjqhznoehu
ponaahbuyyxm,hpxhoeuohuohjufehix gqhpejhfx yqhpoxmhpexso,hoxhoejhsnbeo,
uzuchasxthoejhzngqhoeuohiyjzhasxthoejhjupohijaxsjhp gsnpj,hugqho sgjq
aufngbhoejhzngqkhPgnaangbhnghoejhunshznoehqnyuojqhgxposnyp,hpejhajyohuo
xgfjhoeuohgxohoejnshosuflphxgychi ohoejchoejtpjyrjphzjsjhejsjhijaxsj
ejs,hugqhgxohxgj,hi ohtugckhYupluhpyufljgjqhejshpmjjqkhOejchzjsjhejsj,
i ohzejsjhmsjfnpjychpejhfx yqhgxohcjohqjojstngjkhOxhangqhoejhrjschpmxo,
pejhijbughoxhtuljhuhfnsfyj,hzejghp qqjgychejshtupojs’phrxnfjhqsjzhejs
xaakh“Yuplu!hejsj?”hejhupljq,hmxngongbhejshoxhuhqnaajsjgohqnsjfonxgk
Pejhpoxmmjq,huplngbhenthnahpejheuqhijoojshgxohbxhxghqxngbhuphpejheuq
ijb gkhI ohejhsjmjuojqhenphfxttugqhnghughugbschrxnfj,hmxngongbhoxhu
pmxohfxrjsjqhznoehzuojs,hzejsjhoejsjhfx yqhgxohijhugcoengbkhPejhxijcjq
ent,hmsjojgqngbhpejhzuphyxxlngb,hpxhuphoxhmyjupjhent,hzjgohsx gqhno,
ugqhzjgohiuflhoxhejshaxstjshmxpnonxg,hugqhzuphuohxgfjhuzusjhxahoej
pfjgohubungkhGxzhzejghejhzuphgxohengqjsngbhejs,hpejhlgjzhzeuohoxhqx,
ugqhznoex ohyxxlngbhuohzeuohzuph gqjshejshajjo,hugqhoxhejshrjvuonxg
po tiyngbhxrjshuhenbehpo tmhngoxhoejhzuojs,hi ohsnbeongbhejspjyahznoe
ejshposxgb,hp mmyjhyjbp,hpejhijbughtulngbhoejhfnsfyjhzenfehzuphoxhtulj
uyyhfyjushoxhejskhOejhpfjgohxahoejthsjufejqhejs,hposxgbjshugqhposxgbjs,
ugqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhqjangjq,hugqhuyyhuohxgfjhnohijfutjhmjsajfoychfyjushox
ejshoeuohxgjhxahoejthzuphejsj,hijengqhoenpho aohxahsjjqp,hanrjhmufjphng
asxgohxahejs;hpejhpoxmmjq,hugqhejshzexyjhixqchzuphponyyhugqhsnbnqkhXg
ejshpexsohyjbphpejhfx yqhpjjhgxoengbhnghasxgohxahejs,hi ohichoejhpfjgo
pejhlgjzhnohzuphpnoongbhgxohtxsjhoeughanrjhmufjphxaakhPejhpoxxqhponyy,
ajjyngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhfxgpfnx phxahno,hugqhjg.xcngbhnohnghugonfnmuonxgk
Ejshounyhzuphposjofejqhposunbeohugqhojgpj,hugqhxgychzubbngbhuohoej
jvosjtjhjgqkhEjshtx oehzuphpynbeoychxmjg,hejshjusphsunpjqkhXgjhjusheuq
ijjgho sgjqhzsxgbhpnqjhx ohuphpejhsugh m,hugqhpejhisjuoejqhejurnychi o
zusnyc,hugqhponyyhtxsjhzusnychyxxljqhsx gq,hi ohtxsjhznoehejshjcjphoeug
ejshejuq,hoxhejshtupojskhEjhzuphfxtngbhuyxgbhznoehoejhaufjhpejhlgjzhpx
zjyy,hoex behoejhjcjphzjsjhuyzucphojssniyjhoxhejskhEjhpo tiyjqhxrjshoej
po tmhuphejhfutj,hugqhtxrjq,huphpejhoex beo,hjvosuxsqngusnychpyxzyck
Pejhoex beohejhfutjhpyxzyc,hi ohejhzuphs ggngbk

GxonfngbhYuplu’phpmjfnuyhuoono qjhuphpejhfsx fejqhxghoejhbsx gq,huphno
zjsj,hpfsuofengbhinbhmsngophznoehejshengqhmuzp,hugqhznoehejshtx oe
pynbeoychxmjg,hYjrnghlgjzhpejhzuphmxngongbhuohbsx pj,hugqhznoehug
ngzusqhmsucjshaxshy fl,hjpmjfnuyychznoehoejhanspohinsq,hejhsugh mhox
ejskhFxtngbhw nojhfyxpjh mhoxhejs,hejhfx yqhasxthenphejnbeohyxxlhijcxgq
ejs,hugqhejhpuzhznoehenphjcjphzeuohpejhzuphpjjngbhznoehejshgxpjkhNghu
pmufjhijozjjghozxhynooyjhoenfljop,huohuhfx myjhxahcusqp’hqnpougfj,hej
fx yqhpjjhuhbsx pjkhO sgngbhnophejuq,hnohzuphynpojgngbkhOejghynbeoyc
msjjgngbhugqhaxyqngbhnophzngbp,hnohqnpummjusjqhsx gqhuhfxsgjshznoehu
fy tpchzubhxahnophounyk

“Ajofehno,hajofehno!”hpex ojqhYjrng,hbnrngbhYupluhuhpexrjhasxthijengqk

“I ohNhfug’ohbx,”hoex beohYuplukh“ZejsjhuthNhoxhbx?hAsxthejsjhNhajjy
oejt,hi ohnahNhtxrjhaxszusqhNhpeuyyhlgxzhgxoengbhxahzejsjhoejchusjhxs
zexhoejchusjk”hI ohoejghejhpexrjqhejshznoehenphlgjj,hugqhnghughjvfnojq
zenpmjshpunq,h“Ajofehno,hYupluk”

“Zjyy,hnahoeuo’phzeuohejhznpejp,hN’yyhqxhno,hi ohNhfug’ohugpzjshaxs
tcpjyahgxz,”hpejhoex beo,hugqhqusojqhaxszusqhuphaupohuphejshyjbphzx yq
fusschejshijozjjghoejhoenflhi pejpkhPejhpfjgojqhgxoengbhgxz;hpejhfx yq
xgychpjjhugqhejus,hznoex oh gqjspougqngbhugcoengbk

Ojghmufjphasxthejshaxstjshmyufjhuhbsx pjhsxpjhznoehuhb oo suyhfschugq
oejhmjf ynushsx gqhpx gqhxahnophzngbpkhUgqhnttjqnuojychuaojshoejhpexo
nohpmyupejqhejurnychznoehnophzenojhisjupohxghoejhzjohtnsjkhUgxoejshinsq
qnqhgxohyngbjs,hi ohsxpjhijengqhYjrnghznoex ohoejhqxbkhZejghYjrng
o sgjqhoxzusqphno,hnohzuphuysjuqchpxtjhzuchxaakhI ohenphpexohfu beohnok
Aycngbhozjgochmufjpha soejs,hoejhpjfxgqhbsx pjhsxpjh mzusqp,hugq
zensyngbhsx gqhynljhuhiuyy,hqsxmmjqhejurnychxghuhqschmyufjk

“Fxtj,hoenphnphbxngbhoxhijhpxtjhbxxq!”hoex beohYjrng,hmuflngbhoejhzust
ugqhauohbsx pjhngoxhenphbutjhiubkh“Je,hYuplu,hznyyhnohijhbxxq?”

ZejghYjrng,huaojshyxuqngbhenphb g,htxrjqhxg,hoejhp gheuqha yychsnpjg,
oex beh gpjjghijengqhoejhpoxst-fyx qpkhOejhtxxgheuqhyxpohuyyhxahnop
y pojs,hugqhzuphynljhuhzenojhfyx qhnghoejhplckhGxohuhpngbyjhpoushfx yq
ijhpjjgkhOejhpjqbj,hpnyrjschznoehqjzhijaxsj,hgxzhpexgjhynljhbxyqkhOej
poubgugohmxxyphzjsjhuyyhynljhutijskhOejhiy jhxahoejhbsuppheuqhfeugbjq
oxhcjyyxz-bsjjgkhOejhtuspehinsqphoznoojsjqhugqhpzustjqhuix ohoejhisxxl
ugqh mxghoejhi pejphoeuohbynoojsjqhznoehqjzhugqhfupohyxgbhpeuqxzpkhU
euzlhzxljh mhugqhpjooyjqhxghuheucfxfl,ho sgngbhnophejuqhasxthpnqjhox
pnqjhugqhyxxlngbhqnpfxgojgojqychuohoejhtuspekhFsxzphzjsjhaycngbhuix o
oejhanjyq,hugqhuhiusj-yjbbjqhixchzuphqsnrngbhoejhexspjphoxhughxyqhtug,
zexheuqhbxoh mhasxth gqjshenphyxgbhfxuohugqhzuphfxtingbhenpheunskhOej
ptxljhasxthoejhb ghzuphzenojhuphtnylhxrjshoejhbsjjghxahoejhbsuppk

Xgjhxahoejhixcphsugh mhoxhYjrngk

“ gfyj,hoejsjhzjsjhq flphejsjhcjpojsquc!”hejhpex ojqhoxhent,hugqhej
zuyljqhuhynooyjhzuchxaahijengqhentk

UgqhYjrnghzuphqx iychmyjupjq,hnghpnbeohxahoejhixc,hzexhjvmsjppjqhenp
ummsxruy,huohlnyyngbhoesjjhpgnmj,hxgjhuaojshugxoejs,hposunbeohxaak


Feumojsh13

Oejhpmxsoptug’phpucngb,hoeuohnahoejhanspohijupohxshoejhanspohinsqhnp
gxohtnppjq,hoejhquchznyyhijhy flc,ho sgjqhx ohfxssjfok

Uohojghx’fyxflhYjrng,hzjusc,he gbsc,hugqheummchuaojshuhosutmhxahozjgoc
tnyjp,hsjo sgjqhoxhenphgnbeo’phyxqbngbhznoehgngjojjghejuqhxahangjhbutj
ugqhxgjhq fl,hzenfehejhonjqhoxhenphijyo,huphnohzx yqhgxohbxhngoxhoej
butjhiubkhEnphfxtmugnxgpheuqhyxgbhijjghuzulj,hugqheuqheuqhontjhoxhbjo
e gbschugqheurjhisjulaupok

“Zunohuhino,hzunohuhino,hNhlgxzhoejsjhusjhgngjojjg,”hpunqhYjrng,
fx gongbhuhpjfxgqhontjhxrjshoejhbsx pjhugqhpgnmj,hoeuohyxxljqhpxht fe
yjpphntmxsougohgxz,hijgohugqhqschugqhiyxxqpoungjq,hznoehejuqphfsxxljq
upnqj,hoeughoejchqnqhzejghoejchzjsjhaycngbk

Oejhg tijshzuphrjsnanjq,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phjgrchmyjupjqhYjrngk
Ejhzuphmyjupjqhoxxhxghsjo sgngbhoxhangqhoejhtughpjgohichLnoochznoehu
gxojhzuphuysjuqchoejsjk

“NhuthmjsajfoychzjyyhugqheummckhNahcx hzjsjh gjupchuix ohtj,hcx hfug
ajjyhjupnjshoeughjrjskhN’rjhuhgjzhixqcb usq,hTuscuhRyupcjrgu,”—oenphzup
oejhtnqznaj,huhgjzhugqhntmxsougohmjspxgubjhnghYjrng’phqxtjponfhynajk
“PejheuphfxtjhoxheurjhuhyxxlhuohtjkhPejhax gqhtjhmjsajfoychzjyy,hugqhzj
eurjhljmohejshonyyhcx husjhiuflkhUyyhusjheummchugqhzjyy,hugqhmyjupj,
qxg’ohijhnghuhe sschoxhfxtjhiufl,hi o,hnahoejhpmxsohnphbxxq,hpouc
ugxoejshquck”

Oejpjhozxhmyjup sjp,henphy flchpexxongbhugqhoejhyjoojshasxthenphznaj,
zjsjhpxhbsjuohoeuohozxhpynbeoychqnpubsjjuiyjhngfnqjgophmuppjqhynbeoyc
xrjshYjrngkhXgjhzuphoeuohoejhfejpog ohosufjhexspj,hzexheuqhijjg
 gtnpouluiychxrjszxsljqhxghoejhmsjrnx phquc,hzuphxaahenphajjqhugqhx o
xahpxsopkhOejhfxufetughpunqhejhzuph“Xrjsqsnrjghcjpojsquc,hLxgpougong
QtnosnjrnofekhCjp,hngqjjq!hqsnrjghojghtnyjphznoehgxhpjgpj!”

Oejhxoejsh gmyjupugohngfnqjgo,hzenfehaxshoejhanspohtng ojhqjposxcjqhenp
bxxqhe txs,hoex behyuojshejhyu bejqhuohnohuhbsjuohqjuy,hzuphoxhangq
oeuohxahuyyhoejhmsxrnpnxgphLnoocheuqhmsxrnqjqhnghp fehui gqugfjhoeuo
xgjhzx yqheurjhoex beohoejsjhzuphjgx behaxshuhzjjl,hgxoengbhzuphyjaok
Xghenphzuchiufl,honsjqhugqhe gbschasxthpexxongb,hYjrngheuqhpxhqnpongfo
uhrnpnxghxahtjuo-mnjphoeuohuphejhummsxufejqhoejhe ohejhpjjtjqhoxhptjyy
ugqhoupojhoejt,huphYupluheuqhptjyohoejhbutj,hugqhejhnttjqnuojychoxyq
MenynmhoxhbnrjhenthpxtjkhNohummjusjqhoeuohoejsjhzjsjhgxhmnjphyjao,hgxs
jrjghugchfenfljgk

“Zjyy,hoenphajyyxz’phummjonoj!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyu bengbhugq
mxngongbhuohRuppjgluhRjpyxrplckh“Nhgjrjshp aajshasxthyxpphxahummjonoj,
i ohej’phsjuyychtusrjyx p!kkk”

“Zjyy,hnohfug’ohijhejymjq,”hpunqhYjrng,hyxxlngbhbyxxtnychuohRjpyxrplck
“Zjyy,hMenynm,hbnrjhtjhpxtjhijja,hoejgk”

“Oejhijja’phijjghjuojg,hugqhoejhixgjphbnrjghoxhoejhqxbp,”hugpzjsjq
Menynmk

Yjrnghzuphpxhe sohoeuohejhpunq,hnghuhoxgjhxahrjvuonxg,h“Cx htnbeoheurj
yjaohtjhpxtjoengb!”hugqhejhajyohsjuqchoxhfsck

“Oejghm ohuzuchoejhbutj,”hejhpunqhnghuhpeulngbhrxnfjhoxhMenynm,hoscngb
gxohoxhyxxlhuohRuppjglu,h“ugqhfxrjshoejthznoehpxtjhgjooyjpkhUgqhcx 
tnbeohuohyjupohuplhaxshpxtjhtnylhaxshtjk”

I ohzejghejheuqhqs glhpxtjhtnyl,hejhajyohupeutjqhnttjqnuojychuoheurngb
pexzghenphuggxcugfjhoxhuhposugbjs,hugqhejhijbughoxhyu behuohenphe gbsc
txsonanfuonxgk

Nghoejhjrjgngbhoejchzjgohpexxongbhubung,hugqhRjpyxrplcheuqhpjrjsuy
p ffjppa yhpexop,hugqhnghoejhgnbeohoejchqsxrjhextjk

Oejnshextjzusqh.x sgjchzuphuphynrjychuphoejnshqsnrjhx oheuqhijjgk
Rjpyxrplchpugbhpxgbphugqhsjyuojqhznoehjg.xctjgohenphuqrjgo sjphznoehoej
mjupugop,hzexheuqhsjbuyjqhenthznoehrxqlu,hugqhpunqhoxhent,h“Jvf pjhx s
extjychzucp,”hugqhenphgnbeo’phuqrjgo sjphznoehlnpp-ng-oej-sngbhugqhoej
pjsrugo-bnsyhugqhoejhmjupugo,hzexheuqhupljqhenthzuphejhtussnjq,hugqhxg
yjusgngbhoeuohejhzuphgxo,hpunqhoxhent,h“Zjyy,htngqhcx hqxg’ohs ghuaojs
xoejshtjg’phznrjp—cx ’qhijoojshbjohxgjhxahcx shxzgk”hOejpjhzxsqpheuq
musonf yusychut pjqhRjpyxrplck

“Uyoxbjoejs,hN’rjhjg.xcjqhx shx ongbhuza yyckhUgqhcx ,hYjrng?”

“Nheurj,hrjscht fe,”hYjrnghpunqhw nojhpngfjsjyckhNohzuphmusonf yusyc
qjynbeoa yhoxhenthoxheurjhbxohsnqhxahoejhexponynochejheuqhijjghajjyngb
oxzusqphRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchuohextj,hugqhoxhajjyhngpojuqhoejhtxpo
asnjgqychqnpmxpnonxghoxhentk


Feumojsh14

Gjvohquchuohojghx’fyxflhYjrng,hzexheuqhuysjuqchbxgjhenphsx gqp,hlgxfljq
uohoejhsxxthzejsjhRuppjgluheuqhijjghm ohaxshoejhgnbeok

“_Jgosjd!_”hRjpyxrplchfuyyjqhoxhentkh“Jvf pjhtj,hN’rjhxgych. po
angnpejqhtchuiy onxgp,”hejhpunq,hptnyngb,hpougqngbhijaxsjhenthnghenp
 gqjsfyxoejphxgyck

“Qxg’ohtngqhtj,hmyjupjk”hYjrnghpuohqxzghnghoejhzngqxzkh“Eurjhcx hpyjmo
zjyy?”

“YnljhoejhqjuqkhZeuohpxsohxahquchnphnohaxshpexxongb?”

“Zeuohznyyhcx houlj,hojuhxshfxaajj?”

“GjnoejskhN’yyhzunohonyyhy gfekhN’thsjuyychupeutjqkhNhp mmxpjhoej
yuqnjphusjhqxzg?hUhzuylhgxzhzx yqhijhfumnouykhCx hpexzhtjhcx shexspjpk”

Uaojshzuylngbhuix ohoejhbusqjg,hrnpnongbhoejhpouiyj,hugqhjrjghqxngb
pxtjhbctguponfhjvjsfnpjphoxbjoejshxghoejhmusuyyjyhiusp,hYjrnghsjo sgjq
oxhoejhex pjhznoehenphb jpo,hugqhzjgohznoehenthngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

“Zjheuqhpmyjgqnqhpexxongb,hugqhpxhtugchqjynbeoa yhjvmjsnjgfjp!”hpunq
Rjpyxrplc,hbxngbh mhoxhLnooc,hzexhzuphpnoongbhuohoejhputxruskh“Zeuohu
mnochyuqnjphusjhf ohxaahasxthoejpjhqjynbeop!”

“Zjyy,hNhp mmxpjhejht pohpuchpxtjoengbhoxhoejhyuqchxahoejhex pj,”hYjrng
punqhoxhentpjyakhUbunghejhaugfnjqhpxtjoengbhnghoejhptnyj,hnghoej
uyy-fxgw jsngbhunshznoehzenfehoejnshb jpohuqqsjppjqhLnoockkkk

Oejhmsngfjpp,hpnoongbhxghoejhxoejshpnqjhxahoejhouiyjhznoehTuscu
RyupcjrguhugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hfuyyjqhYjrnghoxhejshpnqj,hugqhijbug
oxhouylhoxhenthuix ohtxrngbhoxhTxpfxzhaxshLnooc’phfxgangjtjgo,hugq
bjoongbhsjuqchsxxtphaxshoejtkh. pohuphYjrngheuqhqnpynljqhuyyhoej
osnrnuyhmsjmusuonxgphaxshenphzjqqngb,huphqjsxbuoxschoxhoejhbsugqj shxa
oejhjrjgo,hgxzhejhajyohponyyhtxsjhxaajgpnrjhoejhmsjmusuonxgphaxshoej
ummsxufengbhinsoe,hoejhquojhxahzenfehoejchsjflxgjq,hnohpjjtjq,hxghoejns
angbjspkhEjhosnjqhoxho sghuhqjuahjushoxhoejpjhqnpf ppnxgphxahoejhijpo
muoojsgphxahyxgbhfyxoejphaxshoejhfxtngbhiuic;hosnjqhoxho sghuzuchugq
urxnqhpjjngbhoejhtcpojsnx p,hjgqyjpphposnmphxahlgnoongb,hoejhosnugbyjp
xahyngjg,hugqhpxhxg,hoxhzenfehQxyychuooufejqhpmjfnuyhntmxsougfjkhOej
insoehxahuhpxgh(ejhzuphfjsounghnohzx yqhijhuhpxg)hzenfehzuphmsxtnpjq
ent,hi ohzenfehejhponyyhfx yqhgxohijynjrjhng—pxhtusrjyx phno
pjjtjq—msjpjgojqhnopjyahoxhenphtngq,hxghxgjheugq,huphuheummngjpphpx
nttjgpj,hugqhoejsjaxsjhpxhngfsjqniyj;hxghoejhxoejs,huphughjrjgohpx
tcpojsnx p,hoeuohoenphupp tmonxghxahuhqjangnojhlgxzyjqbjhxahzeuohzx yq
ij,hugqhfxgpjw jgohmsjmusuonxghaxshno,huphaxshpxtjoengbhxsqnguschoeuo
qnqheummjghoxhmjxmyj,h.ussjqhxghenthuphfxga pngbhugqhe tnynuongbk

I ohoejhmsngfjpphqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhenphajjyngbp,hugqhm ohqxzghenp
sjy fougfjhoxhoenglhugqhouylhuix ohnohoxhfusjyjppgjpphugqhngqnaajsjgfj,
ugqhpxhpejhburjhenthgxhmjufjkhPejheuqhfxttnppnxgjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
oxhyxxlhuohuhayuo,hugqhgxzhpejhfuyyjqhYjrngh mk

“Nhlgxzhgxoengbhuix ohno,hmsngfjppkhQxhuphcx hoenglhano,”hejhpunqk

“Cx ht pohqjfnqjhzejghcx hznyyhtxrjk”

“Nhsjuyychqxg’ohlgxzkhNhlgxzhtnyynxgphxahfenyqsjghusjhixsghuzuchasxt
Txpfxz,hugqhqxfoxsphkkkhzeckkkk”

“I ohnahpxkkkk”

“Xe,hgx,huphLnoochznpejpk”

“Zjhfug’ohouylhoxhLnoochuix ohno!hQxhcx hzugohtjhoxhasnbeojghejs?hZec,
oenphpmsngbhGuouynuhBxynodnguhqnjqhasxtheurngbhughnbgxsugohqxfoxsk”

“Nhznyyhqxh. pohzeuohcx hpuc,”hejhpunqhbyxxtnyck

Oejhmsngfjpphijbughouylngbhoxhent,hi ohejhqnqhgxohejushejskhOex behoej
fxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhmsngfjppheuqhngqjjqh.ussjqh mxghent,hejhzup
byxxtc,hgxohxghuffx gohxahoeuohfxgrjspuonxg,hi ohasxthzeuohejhpuzhuo
oejhputxrusk

“Gx,hno’phntmxppniyj,”hejhoex beo,hbyugfngbhgxzhugqhoejghuohRuppjglu
ijgqngbhxrjshLnooc,hojyyngbhejshpxtjoengbhznoehenphfeustngbhptnyj,hugq
uohejs,hay pejqhugqhqnpo sijqk

OejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhgxohgnfjhnghRuppjglu’phuoono qj,hnghenphjcjp,hng
enphptnyjkhYjrnghjrjghpuzhpxtjoengbhgxohgnfjhnghLnooc’phuoono qjhugq
yxxlkhUgqhubunghoejhynbeohqnjqhuzuchnghenphjcjpkhUbung,huphijaxsj,huyy
xahuhp qqjg,hznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohosugpnonxg,hejhajyohfupohqxzghasxthu
mnggufyjhxaheummngjpp,hmjufj,hugqhqnbgnoc,hngoxhughuicpphxahqjpmuns,
subj,hugqhe tnynuonxgkhUbunghjrjscoengbhugqhjrjscxgjheuqhijfxtjheuoja y
oxhentk

“Cx hqxh. pohuphcx hoenglhijpo,hmsngfjpp,”hejhpunqhubung,hyxxlngb
sx gqk

“EjurchnphoejhfumhxahTxgxtufe,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhmyuca yyc,
engongb,hjrnqjgoyc,hgxohpntmychuohoejhmsngfjpp’phfxgrjspuonxg,hi ohuo
oejhfu pjhxahYjrng’phubnouonxg,hzenfehejheuqhgxonfjqk

“Exzhyuojhcx husjhoxquc,hQxyyc!”

Jrjscxgjhbxoh mhoxhbsjjohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgukhRuppjgluhxgychsxpjhaxshug
ngpougo,hugqhznoehoejhyuflhxahfx sojpchoxhyuqnjphfeusufojsnponfhxahoej
txqjsghcx gbhtug,hejhpfusfjychixzjq,hugqhsjp tjqhenphfxgrjspuonxg
ubung,hyu bengbhuohpxtjoengbk

“N’rjhijjghzxssnjqhuix ohTupeukhPejhqnqhgxohpyjjmhzjyy,hugqhnp
qsjuqa yychonsjpxtjhoxquc,”hpunqhQxyyck

OejhfxgrjspuonxghRuppjgluheuqhpousojqhznoehLnoochzuphs ggngbhxghoej
putjhyngjphuphxghoejhmsjrnx phjrjgngb,hqnpf ppngbhUggu,hugqhzejoejs
yxrjhnphoxhijhm ohenbejshoeughzxsyqychfxgpnqjsuonxgpkhLnoochqnpynljq
oejhfxgrjspuonxg,hugqhpejhzuphqnpo sijqhixoehichoejhp i.jfohugqhoej
oxgjhnghzenfehnohzuphfxgq fojq,hugqhuypxhichoejhlgxzyjqbjhxahoejhjaajfo
nohzx yqheurjhxghejshe piugqkhI ohpejhzuphoxxhpntmyjhugqhnggxfjgohox
lgxzhexzhoxhf ohpexsohoenphfxgrjspuonxg,hxshjrjghoxhfxgfjuyhoej
p mjsanfnuyhmyjup sjhuaaxsqjqhejshichoejhcx gbhtug’phrjschxirnx p
uqtnsuonxgkhPejhzugojqhoxhpoxmhno,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhqxk
Zeuojrjshpejhqnqhpejhlgjzhzx yqhijhxipjsrjqhichejshe piugq,hugqhoej
zxspohngojsmsjouonxghm ohxghnokhUgq,hnghaufo,hzejghpejhupljqhQxyychzeuo
zuphzsxgbhznoehTupeu,hugqhRuppjglu,hzunongbhonyyhoenph gngojsjpongb
fxgrjspuonxghzuphxrjs,hijbughoxhbudjhngqnaajsjgoychuohQxyyc,hoej
w jponxghpos flhYjrnghuphugh gguo suyhugqhqnpb pongbhmnjfjhxa
ecmxfsnpck

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuc,hpeuyyhzjhbxhugqhyxxlhaxsht pesxxtphoxquc?”hpunq
Qxyyck

“Ichuyyhtjugp,hmyjupj,hugqhNhpeuyyhfxtjhoxx,”hpunqhLnooc,hugqhpej
iy pejqkhPejhzugojqhasxthmxynojgjpphoxhuplhRuppjgluhzejoejshejhzx yq
fxtj,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohuplhentkh“Zejsjhusjhcx hbxngb,hLxpocu?”hpejhupljq
ejshe piugqhznoehuhb nyochaufj,huphejhmuppjqhichejshznoehuhsjpxy oj
pojmkhOenphb nyochunshfxganstjqhuyyhenphp pmnfnxgpk

“OejhtjfeugnfnughfutjhzejghNhzuphuzuc;hNheurjg’ohpjjghenthcjo,”hej
punq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohejsk

Ejhzjgohqxzgpounsp,hi ohijaxsjhejheuqhontjhoxhyjurjhenphpo qchejhejusq
enphznaj’phautnynushaxxopojmphs ggngbhznoehsjflyjpphpmjjqhoxhentk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugo?”hejhpunqhoxhejshpexsoyckh“Zjhusjhi pck”

“Nhijbhcx shmusqxg,”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhBjstughtjfeugnfnug;h“Nhzugohuhajz
zxsqphznoehtche piugqk”

OejhBjstughzx yqheurjhyjaohoejhsxxt,hi ohYjrnghpunqhoxhent:

“Qxg’ohqnpo sihcx spjyak”

“Oejhosunghnphuohoesjj?”hw jsnjqhoejhBjstugkh“Nht pog’ohijhyuojk”

Yjrnghqnqhgxohugpzjshent,hi ohzuyljqhx ohentpjyahznoehenphznajk

“Zjyy,hzeuoheurjhcx hoxhpuchoxhtj?”hejhpunqhoxhejshnghAsjgfek

Ejhqnqhgxohyxxlhejshnghoejhaufj,hugqhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhpjjhoeuohpejhng
ejshfxgqnonxghzuphosjtiyngbhuyyhxrjs,hugqheuqhuhmnojx p,hfs pejqhyxxlk

“NhkkkhNhzugohoxhpuchoeuohzjhfug’ohbxhxghynljhoenp;hoeuohoenphnp
tnpjsckkkk”hpejhpunqk

“Oejhpjsrugophusjhejsjhuohoejhpnqjixusq,”hejhpunqhugbsnyc;h“qxg’ohtulj
uhpfjgjk”

“Zjyy,hyjo’phbxhnghejsj!”

OejchzjsjhpougqngbhnghoejhmuppubjkhLnoochzx yqheurjhbxgjhngoxhoejhgjvo
sxxt,hi ohoejsjhoejhJgbynpehbxrjsgjpphzuphbnrngbhOugcuhuhyjppxgk

“Zjyy,hfxtjhngoxhoejhbusqjgk”

Nghoejhbusqjghoejchfutjh mxghuhmjupugohzjjqngbhoejhmuoekhUgqhgxhyxgbjs
fxgpnqjsngbhoeuohoejhmjupugohfx yqhpjjhejshojus-poungjqhugqhenp
ubnouojqhaufj,hoeuohoejchyxxljqhynljhmjxmyjhayjjngbhasxthpxtjhqnpupojs,
oejchzjgohxghznoehsumnqhpojmp,hajjyngbhoeuohoejcht pohpmjulhx ohugq
fyjush mhtnp gqjspougqngbp,ht pohijhuyxgjhoxbjoejs,hugqhpxhbjohsnqhxa
oejhtnpjschoejchzjsjhixoehajjyngbk

“Zjhfug’ohbxhxghynljhoenp!hNo’phtnpjsc!hNhuthzsjofejq;hcx husj
zsjofejqkhZeuohaxs?”hpejhpunq,hzejghoejcheuqhuohyupohsjufejqhuhpxynousc
busqjghpjuohuohuho sghnghoejhyntjhosjjhurjg jk

“I ohojyyhtjhxgjhoengb:hzuphoejsjhnghenphoxgjhugcoengbh gpjjtyc,hgxo
gnfj,he tnynuongbychexssniyj?”hejhpunq,hpougqngbhijaxsjhejshubunghng
oejhputjhmxpnonxghznoehenphfyjgfejqhanpophxghenphfejpo,huphejheuqhpoxxq
ijaxsjhejshoeuohgnbeok

“Cjp,”hpejhpunqhnghuhpeulngbhrxnfj;h“i o,hLxpocu,hp sjychcx hpjjhN’t
gxohoxhiyutj?hUyyhoejhtxsgngbhN’rjhijjghoscngbhoxhouljhuhoxgjhkkkhi o
p fehmjxmyjkkkkhZechqnqhejhfxtj?hExzheummchzjhzjsj!”hpejhpunq,
isjuoeyjpphznoehoejhpxiphoeuohpexxlhejsk

Uyoex behgxoengbheuqhijjghm sp ngbhoejt,hugqhoejsjhzuphgxoengbhoxhs g
uzuchasxt,hugqhoejchfx yqhgxohmxppniycheurjhax gqhugcoengbhrjsc
qjynbeoa yhxghoeuohbusqjghpjuo,hoejhbusqjgjshpuzhznoehupoxgnpetjgohoeuo
oejchmuppjqhenthxghoejnshzuchextjhznoehfxtaxsojqhugqhsuqnugohaufjpk


Feumojsh15

Uaojshjpfxsongbhenphznajh mpounsp,hYjrnghzjgohoxhQxyyc’phmusohxahoej
ex pjkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,haxshejshmuso,hzuphnghbsjuohqnposjpphoxxhoeuo
quckhPejhzuphzuylngbhuix ohoejhsxxt,houylngbhugbsnychoxhuhynooyjhbnsy,
zexhpoxxqhnghoejhfxsgjshsxusngbk

“Ugqhcx hpeuyyhpougqhuyyhquchnghoejhfxsgjs,hugqheurjhcx shqnggjshuyy
uyxgj,hugqhgxohpjjhxgjhxahcx shqxyyp,hugqhNhzxg’ohtuljhcx huhgjz
asxfl,”hpejhpunq,hgxohlgxzngbhexzhoxhm gnpehejsk

“Xe,hpejhnphuhqnpb pongbhfenyq!”hpejho sgjqhoxhYjrngkh“Zejsjhqxjphpej
bjohp fehznfljqhmsxmjgpnonjp?”

“Zec,hzeuoheuphpejhqxgj?”hYjrnghpunqhznoex oht fehngojsjpo,haxshejheuq
zugojqhoxhuplhejshuqrnfj,hugqhpxhzuphuggxcjqhoeuohejheuqhfxtjhuohug
 gy flchtxtjgok

“Bsnpeuhugqhpejhzjgohngoxhoejhsupmijssnjp,hugqhoejsjhkkkhNhfug’ohojyy
cx hsjuyychzeuohpejhqnqkhNo’phuhoex pugqhmnonjphTnpphJyynxo’phgxohznoe
 pkhOenphxgjhpjjphoxhgxoengb—pej’phuhtufengjkkkkh_Anb sjd-rx phw jhyu
mjonoj_?kkk”

UgqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqjpfsnijqhTupeu’phfsntjk

“Oeuohmsxrjphgxoengb;hno’phgxohuhw jponxghxahjrnyhmsxmjgpnonjphuohuyy,
no’phpntmychtnpfenja,”hYjrnghupp sjqhejsk

“I ohcx husjh mpjohuix ohpxtjoengb?hZeuoheurjhcx hfxtjhaxs?”hupljq
Qxyyckh“Zeuo’phbxngbhxghoejsj?”

Ugqhnghoejhoxgjhxahejshw jponxghYjrnghejusqhoeuohnohzx yqhijhjupchaxs
enthoxhpuchzeuohejheuqhtjugohoxhpuck

“N’rjhgxohijjghnghoejsj,hN’rjhijjghuyxgjhnghoejhbusqjghznoehLnoock
Zj’rjheuqhuhw ussjyhaxshoejhpjfxgqhontjhpngfjhkkkhPonruhfutjk”

Qxyychyxxljqhuohenthznoehejshpesjzq,hfxtmsjejgqngbhjcjpk

“Fxtj,hojyyhtj,hexgxshisnbeo,heuphoejsjhijjghkkkhgxohnghLnooc,hi ohng
oeuohbjgoyjtug’phijeurnxs,huhoxgjhzenfehtnbeohijh gmyjupugo—gxo
 gmyjupugo,hi ohexssniyj,hxaajgpnrjhoxhuhe piugq?”

“Cx htjug,hexzhpeuyyhNhpuckkkkhPouc,hpouchnghoejhfxsgjs!”hpejhpunqhox
Tupeu,hzex,hqjojfongbhuhaungohptnyjhnghejshtxoejs’phaufj,heuqhijjg
o sgngbhsx gqkh“Oejhxmngnxghxahoejhzxsyqhzx yqhijhoeuohejhnphijeurngb
uphcx gbhtjghqxhijeurjkh_Nyhaunohyuhfx shàh gjh.j gjhjoh.xynjhajttj_,
ugqhuhe piugqhzex’phuhtughxahoejhzxsyqhpex yqhxgychijhayuoojsjqhichnok”

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpunqhYjrnghbyxxtnyc;h“i ohcx hgxonfjqhno?”

“GxohxgychN,hi ohPonruhgxonfjqhnokh. pohuaojshisjulaupohejhpunqhoxhtj
nghpxhtugchzxsqp,h_.jhfsxnphw jhRjpyxrplchaunoh ghmjonohisnghqjhfx shà
Lnooc_k”

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phuyyhsnbeohoejg;hgxzhN’thpuonpanjqkhN’yyhpjgqhenthuzuc,”
punqhYjrngk

“Zeuohqxhcx htjug!hUsjhcx hfsudc?”hQxyychfsnjqhnghexssxs;h“gxgpjgpj,
Lxpocu,hxgychoengl!”hpejhpunq,hyu bengbkh“Cx hfughbxhgxzhoxhAuggc,”hpej
punqhoxhTupeukh“Gx,hnahcx hznpehno,hN’yyhpmjulhoxhPonrukhEj’yyhouljhent
uzuckhEjhfughpuchcx ’sjhjvmjfongbhrnpnoxspkhUyoxbjoejshejhqxjpg’ohano
ngoxhoejhex pjk”

“Gx,hgx,hN’yyhqxhnohtcpjyak”

“I ohcx ’yyhw ussjyhznoehent?”

“GxohuhinokhNhpeuyyhpxhjg.xchno,”hYjrnghpunq,henphjcjphayupengbhznoe
sjuyhjg.xctjgokh“Fxtj,haxsbnrjhejs,hQxyyc,hpejhzxg’ohqxhnohubung,”hej
punqhxahoejhynooyjhpnggjs,hzexheuqhgxohbxgjhoxhAuggc,hi ohzuphpougqngb
nssjpxy ojychijaxsjhejshtxoejs,hzunongbhugqhyxxlngbh mhasxth gqjshejs
isxzphoxhfuofehejshtxoejs’phjcjk

OejhtxoejshbyugfjqhuohejskhOejhfenyqhisxljhngoxhpxip,henqhejshaufjhxg
ejshtxoejs’phyum,hugqhQxyychyunqhejshoeng,hojgqjsheugqhxghejshejuqk

“Ugqhzeuohnphoejsjhnghfxttxghijozjjgh phugqhent?”hoex beohYjrng,hugqhej
zjgohxaahoxhyxxlhaxshRjpyxrplck

Uphejhmuppjqhoesx behoejhmuppubjhejhburjhxsqjsphaxshoejhfussnubjhoxhij
bxohsjuqchoxhqsnrjhoxhoejhpouonxgk

“Oejhpmsngbhzuphisxljghcjpojsquc,”hpunqhoejhaxxotugk

“Zjyy,hoejhfxrjsjqhosum,hoejg,hugqhtuljheupojkhZejsj’phoejhrnpnoxs?”

“Oejhbjgoyjtug’phbxgjhoxhenphsxxtk”

Yjrnghfutjh mxghRjpyxrplchuohoejhtxtjgohzejghoejhyuoojs,heurngb
 gmufljqhenphoengbphasxthenphos gl,hugqhyunqhx ohpxtjhgjzhpxgbp,hzup
m oongbhxghenphbunojsphoxhbxhx ohsnqngbk

ZejoejshoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhjvfjmonxguyhnghYjrng’phaufj,hxshoeuo
Ruppjgluhzuphentpjyahfxgpfnx phoeuoh_fjhmjonohisnghqjhfx s_hejhzup
tulngbhzuphx ohxahmyufjhnghoenphautnyc,hi ohejhzuphpxtjzeuoh(upht fehup
uhcx gbhtughnghpxfnjochfughij)hqnpfxgfjsojqhuohYjrng’phjgosugfjk

“Cx hsnqjhnghbunojsp?”

“Cjp,hno’pht fehfyjugjs,”hpunqhRuppjglu,hm oongbhenphauohyjbhxghu
feuns,haupojgngbhoejhixooxthexxl,hugqhptnyngbhznoehpntmyj-ejusojqhbxxq
e txsk

Ejhzuph gqx iojqychuhbxxq-guo sjqhajyyxz,hugqhYjrnghajyohpxsschaxshent
ugqhupeutjqhxahentpjya,huphenphexpo,hzejghejhpuzhoejhpechyxxlhxg
Ruppjglu’phaufjk

Xghoejhouiyjhyuchuhmnjfjhxahponflhzenfehoejcheuqhisxljghoxbjoejshoeuo
txsgngb,hoscngbhoejnshposjgboekhYjrnghoxxlhoejhasubtjgohnghenpheugqp
ugqhijbughptupengbhnoh m,hisjulngbhinophxaahoejhponfl,hgxohlgxzngbhexz
oxhijbngk

“Nhzugojqkkkk”hEjhmu pjq,hi ohp qqjgyc,hsjtjtijsngbhLnoochugq
jrjscoengbhoeuoheuqheummjgjq,hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhenthsjpxy ojychnghoej
aufj:h“Nheurjhxsqjsjqhoejhexspjphoxhijhm o-oxhaxshcx k”

“Exzhpx?”hRuppjgluhijbughnghp smsnpjkh“Oxhqsnrjhzejsj?”

“Axshcx hoxhqsnrjhoxhoejhpouonxg,”hYjrnghpunqhbyxxtnyck

“Usjhcx hbxngbhuzuc,hxsheuphpxtjoengbheummjgjq?”

“NoheummjgphoeuohNhjvmjfohrnpnoxsp,”hpunqhYjrng,henphposxgbhangbjsp
txsjhugqhtxsjhsumnqychisjulngbhxaahoejhjgqphxahoejhpmynohponflkh“Ugq
N’thgxohjvmjfongbhrnpnoxsp,hugqhgxoengbheupheummjgjq,hi ohNhijbhcx hox
bxhuzuckhCx hfughjvmyunghtchs qjgjpphuphcx hynljk”

Ruppjgluhqsjzhentpjyah mk

“Nhijbhcx hoxhjvmyungkkkk”hejhpunqhznoehqnbgnoc,h gqjspougqngbhuohyupok

“Nhfug’ohjvmyung,”hYjrnghpunqhpxaoychugqhqjynijsuojyc,hoscngbhox
fxgosxyhoejhosjtiyngbhxahenph.uz;h“ugqhcx ’qhijoojshgxohuplk”

Ugqhuphoejhpmynohjgqphzjsjhuyyhisxljghxaa,hYjrnghfy ofejqhoejhoenfl
jgqphnghenphangbjs,hisxljhoejhponflhnghozx,hugqhfusja yychfu beohoej
jgqhuphnohajyyk

Msxiuiychoejhpnbeohxahoexpjhgjsrx phangbjsp,hxahoejht pfyjphejheuq
msxrjqhoeuohtxsgngbhuohbctguponfp,hxahoejhbynoojsngbhjcjp,hoejhpxao
rxnfj,hugqhw nrjsngbh.uzp,hfxgrngfjqhRuppjgluhijoojshoeughugchzxsqpkhEj
ixzjq,hpes bbngbhenphpex yqjsp,hugqhptnyngbhfxgojtmo x pyck

“FughNhgxohpjjhXiyxgplc?”

Oejhpes bhugqhoejhptnyjhqnqhgxohnssnouojhYjrngk

“Zeuohjypjhzuphoejsjhaxshenthoxhqx?”hejhoex beok

“N’yyhpjgqhenthoxhcx huohxgfjk”

“Zeuohtuqgjpphnphoenp?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhzejg,huaojshejusngb
asxthenphasnjgqhoeuohejhzuphijngbho sgjqhx ohxahoejhex pj,hejhax gq
Yjrnghnghoejhbusqjg,hzejsjhejhzuphzuylngbhuix ohzunongbhaxshenphb jpo’p
qjmuso sjkh“_Tunphf’jpohsnqnf yj!_hZeuohaycheuphpo gbhcx ?h_Tunphf’jpo
q hqjsgnjshsnqnf yj!_hZeuohqnqhcx hoengl,hnahuhcx gbhtugkkkk”

I ohoejhmyufjhzejsjhYjrngheuqhijjghpo gbhzuphjrnqjgoychponyyhpxsj,haxs
ejho sgjqhmuyjhubung,hzejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzx yqheurjhjgyusbjqhxg
oejhsjupxg,hugqhejhentpjyahf ohenthpexsok

“Myjupjhqxg’ohbxhngoxhno!hNhfug’ohejymhnokhNhajjyhupeutjqhxahexzhN’t
osjuongbhcx hugqhentkhI ohnohzxg’ohij,hNhntubngj,huhbsjuohbsnjahoxhent
oxhbx,hugqhenphmsjpjgfjhzuphqnpoupoja yhoxhtjhugqhoxhtchznajk”

“I ohno’phngp yongbhoxhent!h_Johm nphf’jpohsnqnf yj_k”

“Ugqhoxhtjhno’phixoehngp yongbhugqhqnposjppngb!hUgqhN’thgxohuohau yohng
ugchzuc,hugqhoejsj’phgxhgjjqhaxshtjhoxhp aajsk”

“Zjyy,hoenphNhqnqg’ohjvmjfohxahcx !h_Xghmj ohêosjh.uyx v,htunphàhfj
mxngo,hf’jpohq hqjsgnjshsnqnf yj!_”

Yjrngho sgjqhw nflyc,hugqhzuyljqhuzuchasxthenthngoxhoejhqjmoephxahoej
urjg j,hugqhejhzjgohxghzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghuyxgjkhPxxghejhejusqhoej
s tiyjhxahoejhosum,hugqhpuzhasxthijengqhoejhosjjphexzhRuppjglu,hpnoongb
nghoejheuch( gy flnychoejsjhzuphgxhpjuohnghoejhosum)hnghenphPfxofehfum,
zuphqsnrjghuyxgbhoejhurjg j,h.xyongbh mhugqhqxzghxrjshoejhs opk

“Zeuo’phoenp?”hYjrnghoex beo,hzejghuhaxxotughsughx ohxahoejhex pjhugq
poxmmjqhoejhosumkhNohzuphoejhtjfeugnfnug,hzexthYjrngheuqhoxouyyc
axsbxoojgkhOejhtjfeugnfnug,hixzngbhyxz,hpunqhpxtjoengbhoxhRjpyxrplc,
oejghfyutijsjqhngoxhoejhosum,hugqhoejchqsxrjhxaahoxbjoejsk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehugqhoejhmsngfjpphzjsjht feh mpjohichYjrng’phufonxgk
Ugqhejhentpjyahajyohgxohxgychnghoejhenbejpohqjbsjjh_snqnf yj_,hi ohuypx
 oojsychb nyochugqhqnpbsufjqkhI ohsjtjtijsngbhzeuohp aajsngbphejhugq
enphznajheuqhijjghoesx be,hzejghejhupljqhentpjyahexzhejhpex yqhufo
ugxoejshontj,hejhugpzjsjqhoeuohejhpex yqhqxh. pohoejhputjhubungk

Nghpmnojhxahuyyhoenp,hoxzusqphoejhjgqhxahoeuohquc,hjrjscxgjhjvfjmohoej
msngfjpp,hzexhfx yqhgxohmusqxghYjrng’phufonxg,hijfutjhjvosuxsqngusnyc
ynrjychugqhbxxq-e txsjq,hynljhfenyqsjghuaojshuhm gnpetjgohxshbsxzg- m
mjxmyjhuaojshuhqsjusc,hfjsjtxgnx phsjfjmonxg,hpxhoeuohichoejhjrjgngb
Ruppjglu’phqnptnppuyhzuphpmxljghxa,hnghoejhuipjgfjhxahoejhmsngfjpp,hup
oex behnohzjsjhpxtjhsjtxojhjrjgokhUgqhQxyyc,hzexheuqhngejsnojqhejs
auoejs’phbnaohxahe txsx phpoxscojyyngb,htuqjhRusjgluhejymyjpphznoe
yu beojshuphpejhsjyuojqhaxshoejhoensqhugqhax soehontj,huyzucphznoe
asjpehe txsx phuqqnonxgp,hexzhpejheuqhxgych. pohm ohxghejshgjzhpexjp
axshoejhijgjanohxahoejhrnpnoxs,hugqhxghbxngbhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,
ejusqhp qqjgychoejhs tiyjhxahoejhosumkhUgqhzexhpex yqhijhnghoejhosum
i ohRuppjgluhentpjya,hznoehenphPfxofehfum,hugqhenphpxgbphugqhenp
bunojsp,hugqhuyy,hpnoongbhnghoejheuck

“Nahxgychcx ’qhxsqjsjqhx ohoejhfussnubj!hI ohgx!hugqhoejghNhejus:
‘Poxm!’hXe,hNhoex beohoejc’rjhsjyjgojqkhNhyxxlhx o,hugqhijexyqhuhauo
BjstughijngbhpuohqxzghichenthugqhqsnrngbhuzuckkkkhUgqhtchgjzhpexjphuyy
axshgxoengb!kkk”


Feumojsh16

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhfussnjqhx ohejshngojgonxghugqhzjgohoxhpjjhUggukhPej
zuphpxsschoxhuggxchejshpnpojshugqhoxhqxhugcoengbhYjrnghqnpynljqkhPej
w nojh gqjspoxxqhexzhsnbeohoejhYjrngphzjsjhnghgxohznpengbhoxheurj
ugcoengbhoxhqxhznoehRsxgplckhI ohpejhajyohpejht pohbxhugqhpjjhUggu,hugq
pexzhejshoeuohejshajjyngbphfx yqhgxohijhfeugbjq,hnghpmnojhxahoejhfeugbj
nghejshmxpnonxgkhOeuohpejhtnbeohijhngqjmjgqjgohxahoejhYjrngphnghoenp
jvmjqnonxg,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpjgohoxhoejhrnyyubjhoxhensjhexspjphaxs
oejhqsnrj;hi ohYjrnghyjusgngbhxahnohzjgohoxhejshoxhmsxojpok

“Zeuohtuljphcx hp mmxpjhoeuohNhqnpynljhcx shbxngb?hI o,hjrjghnahNhqnq
qnpynljhno,hNhpex yqhponyyhtxsjhqnpynljhcx shgxohoulngbhtchexspjp,”hej
punqkh“Cx hgjrjshoxyqhtjhoeuohcx hzjsjhbxngbhaxshfjsoungkhEnsngbhexspjp
nghoejhrnyyubjhnphqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhtj,hugq,hzeuo’phxahtxsjhntmxsougfj,
oejc’yyh gqjsouljhoejh.xihugqhgjrjshbjohcx hoejsjkhNheurjhexspjpkhUgq
nahcx hqxg’ohzugohoxhzx gqhtj,hcx ’yyhouljhtngjk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhoxhfxgpjgo,hugqhxghoejhquchanvjqhYjrngheuqhsjuqc
axshenphpnpojs-ng-yuzhuhpjohxahax shexspjphugqhsjyucp,hbjoongbhoejt
oxbjoejshasxthoejhausthugqhpuqqyj-exspjp—gxohuohuyyhuhptuso-yxxlngb
pjo,hi ohfumuiyjhxahoulngbhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoejhzexyjhqnpougfjhnghu
pngbyjhquckhUohoeuohtxtjgo,hzejghexspjphzjsjhzugojqhaxshoejhmsngfjpp,
zexhzuphbxngb,hugqhaxshoejhtnqznaj,hnohzuphuhqnaanf yohtuoojshaxshYjrng
oxhtuljh mhoejhg tijs,hi ohoejhq onjphxahexpmnouynochzx yqhgxohyjohent
uyyxzhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxhensjhexspjphzejghpoucngbhnghenphex pjk
Txsjxrjs,hejhzuphzjyyhuzusjhoeuohoejhozjgochsx iyjphoeuohzx yqhijhupljq
axshoejh.x sgjchzjsjhuhpjsnx phtuoojshaxshejs;hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’p
mjf gnuschuaaunsp,hzenfehzjsjhnghuhrjsch gpuonpaufoxschpouoj,hzjsj
ouljghoxhejusohichoejhYjrngphuphnahoejchzjsjhoejnshxzgk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hichYjrng’phuqrnfj,hpousojqhijaxsjhqucisjulkhOej
sxuqhzuphbxxq,hoejhfussnubjhfxtaxsouiyj,hoejhexspjphosxoojqhuyxgb
tjssnyc,hugqhxghoejhixv,hijpnqjphoejhfxufetug,hpuohoejhfx gongb-ex pj
fyjsl,hzexthYjrnghzuphpjgqngbhngpojuqhxahuhbsxxthaxshbsjuojshpjf snock
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqxdjqhugqhzuljqh mhxgychxghsjufengbhoejhngghzejsj
oejhexspjphzjsjhoxhijhfeugbjqk

Uaojshqsnglngbhojuhuohoejhputjhzjyy-ox-qxhmjupugo’phznoehzexthYjrngheuq
poucjqhxghoejhzuchoxhPrnudeplc’p,hugqhfeuoongbhznoehoejhzxtjghuix o
oejnshfenyqsjg,hugqhznoehoejhxyqhtughuix ohFx gohRsxgplc,hzexthoej
yuoojshmsunpjqhrjschenbeyc,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,huohojghx’fyxfl,hzjgohxg
ubungkhUohextj,hyxxlngbhuaojshejshfenyqsjg,hpejheuqhgxhontjhoxhoenglk
Pxhgxz,huaojshoenph.x sgjchxahax shex sp,huyyhoejhoex beophpejheuq
p mmsjppjqhijaxsjhs pejqhpzustngbhngoxhejshisung,hugqhpejhoex beohxrjs
uyyhejshynajhuphpejhgjrjsheuqhijaxsj,hugqhasxthoejhtxpohqnaajsjgo
mxngophxahrnjzkhEjshoex beophpjjtjqhposugbjhjrjghoxhejspjyakhUohanspo
pejhoex beohuix ohoejhfenyqsjg,huix ohzexthpejhzuph gjupc,huyoex behoej
msngfjpphugqhLnooch(pejhsjflxgjqhtxsjh mxghejs)heuqhmsxtnpjqhoxhyxxl
uaojshoejtkh“NahxgychTupeuhqxjphgxohijbnghejshgu beochosnflp,hnahBsnpeu
npg’ohlnfljqhichuhexspj,hugqhYnyc’phpoxtufehnpg’oh mpjohubung!”hpej
oex beokhI ohoejpjhw jponxgphxahoejhmsjpjgohzjsjhp ffjjqjqhichw jponxgp
xahoejhnttjqnuojha o sjkhPejhijbughoenglngbhexzhpejheuqhoxhbjohuhgjz
ayuohnghTxpfxzhaxshoejhfxtngbhzngojs,hoxhsjgjzhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt
a sgno sj,hugqhoxhtuljhejshjyqjshbnsyhuhfyxulkhOejghw jponxgphxahoej
txsjhsjtxojha o sjhxff ssjqhoxhejs:hexzhpejhzuphoxhmyufjhejshfenyqsjg
nghoejhzxsyqkh“Oejhbnsyphusjhuyyhsnbeo,”hpejhoex beo;h“i ohoejhixcp?”

“No’phrjschzjyyhoeuohN’thojufengbhBsnpeu,hi ohxahfx spjhoeuo’phxgyc
ijfu pjhNhuthasjjhtcpjyahgxz,hN’thgxohznoehfenyqkhPonru,hxahfx spj,
oejsj’phgxhfx gongbhxgkhUgqhznoehoejhejymhxahbxxq-guo sjqhasnjgqphNhfug
isngbhoejth m;hi ohnahoejsj’phugxoejshiuichfxtngb?kkk”hUgqhoejhoex beo
pos flhejshexzh gos ychnohzuphpunqhoeuohoejhf spjhyunqhxghzxtughzup
oeuohnghpxssxzhpejhpex yqhisngbhaxsoehfenyqsjgk

“Oejhinsoehnopjya,hoeuo’phgxoengb;hi ohoejhtxgoephxahfusscngbhoej
fenyq—oeuo’phzeuo’phpxhngoxyjsuiyj,”hpejhoex beo,hmnfo sngbhoxhejspjya
ejshyupohmsjbgugfc,hugqhoejhqjuoehxahoejhyupohiuickhUgqhpejhsjfuyyjq
oejhfxgrjspuonxghpejheuqh. poheuqhznoehoejhcx gbhzxtughuohoejhnggkhXg
ijngbhupljqhzejoejshpejheuqhugchfenyqsjg,hoejheugqpxtjhcx gbhzxtugheuq
ugpzjsjqhfejjsa yyc:

“Nheuqhuhbnsyhiuic,hi ohBxqhpjohtjhasjj;hNhi snjqhejshyupohYjgok”

“Zjyy,hqnqhcx hbsnjrjhrjscht fehaxshejs?”hupljqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk

“Zechbsnjrj?hOejhxyqhtugheuphbsugqfenyqsjghjgx behuphnohnpkhNohzuphxgyc
uhosx iyjkhGxhzxslngb,hgxshgxoengbkhXgychuhonjk”

Oenphugpzjsheuqhpos flhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhuphsjrxyongbhnghpmnojhxahoej
bxxq-guo sjqhugqhmyjupngbhaufjhxahoejhcx gbhzxtug;hi ohgxzhpejhfx yq
gxohejymhsjfuyyngbhoejpjhzxsqpkhNghoexpjhfcgnfuyhzxsqphoejsjhzuphngqjjq
uhbsunghxahos oek

“Cjp,huyoxbjoejs,”hoex beohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hyxxlngbhiuflhxrjshejs
zexyjhjvnpojgfjhq sngbhoexpjhanaojjghcjusphxahejshtussnjqhynaj,
“msjbgugfc,hpnflgjpp,htjgouyhngfumufnoc,hngqnaajsjgfjhoxhjrjscoengb,
ugqhtxpohxahuyy—enqjx pgjppkhLnooc,hcx gbhugqhmsjoochuphpejhnp,hjrjg
Lnoocheuphyxpohejshyxxlp;hugqhNhzejghN’thznoehfenyqhijfxtjhenqjx p,hN
lgxzhnokhOejhinsoe,hoejhubxgc,hoejhenqjx phubxgnjp,hoeuohyupohtxtjgo
kkkhoejghoejhg spngb,hoejhpyjjmyjpphgnbeop,hoejhajusa yhmungpkkkk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpe qqjsjqhuohoejhtjsjhsjfxyyjfonxghxahoejhmunghasxt
pxsjhisjupophzenfehpejheuqhp aajsjqhznoehuytxpohjrjschfenyqkh“Oejghoej
fenyqsjg’phnyygjppjp,hoeuohjrjsyupongbhummsjejgpnxg;hoejghisngbngbhoejt
 m;hjrnyhmsxmjgpnonjp”h(pejhoex beohxahynooyjhTupeu’phfsntjhutxgbhoej
supmijssnjp),h“jq fuonxg,hYuong—no’phuyyhpxhngfxtmsjejgpniyjhugq
qnaanf yokhUgqhxghoejhoxmhxahnohuyy,hoejhqjuoehxahoejpjhfenyqsjgk”hUgq
oejsjhsxpjhubunghijaxsjhejshntubnguonxghoejhfs jyhtjtxsc,hoeuohuyzucp
oxsjhejshtxoejs’phejuso,hxahoejhqjuoehxahejshyupohynooyjhiuic,hzexheuq
qnjqhxahfsx m;henpha gjsuy,hoejhfuyyx phngqnaajsjgfjhxahuyyhuohoej
ynooyjhmnglhfxaang,hugqhejshxzghoxsghejuso,hugqhejshyxgjychugb npehuo
oejhpnbeohxahoejhmuyjhynooyjhisxzhznoehnophmsx.jfongbhojtmyjp,hugqhoej
xmjg,hzxgqjsngbhynooyjhtx oehpjjghnghoejhfxaanghuohoejhtxtjgohzejghno
zuphijngbhfxrjsjqhznoehoejhynooyjhmnglhynqhznoehuhfsxpphisunqjqhxghnok

“Ugqhuyyhoenp,hzeuo’phnohaxs?hZeuohnphoxhfxtjhxahnohuyy?hOeuohN’t
zupongbhtchynaj,hgjrjsheurngbhuhtxtjgo’phmjufj,hjnoejshznoehfenyq,hxs
g spngbhuhfenyq,haxsjrjshnssnouiyj,hmjjrnpe,hzsjofejqhtcpjyahugq
zxsscngbhxoejsp,hsjm ypnrjhoxhtche piugq,hzenyjhoejhfenyqsjghusj
bsxzngbh mh geummc,hiuqychjq fuojq,hugqhmjggnyjppkhJrjghgxz,hnahno
zjsjg’ohaxshpmjgqngbhoejhp ttjshuohoejhYjrngp’,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhexzhzj
pex yqhijhtugubngbhoxhynrjkhXahfx spjhLxpocuhugqhLnoocheurjhpxht fe
oufohoeuohzjhqxg’ohajjyhno;hi ohnohfug’ohbxhxgkhOejc’yyheurjhfenyqsjg,
oejchzxg’ohijhuiyjhoxhljjmh p;hno’phuhqsubhxghoejthuphnohnpkhExzhnp
mumu,hzexheupheusqychugcoengbhyjaohaxshentpjya,hoxhejymh p?hPxhoeuohN
fug’ohjrjghisngbhoejhfenyqsjgh mhichtcpjya,hugqhtuchangqhnoheusqhznoe
oejhejymhxahxoejshmjxmyj,huohoejhfxpohxahe tnynuonxgkhZec,hjrjghnahzj
p mmxpjhoejhbsjuojpohbxxqhy fl,hoeuohoejhfenyqsjghqxg’ohqnj,hugqhN
isngbhoejth mhpxtjexzkhUohoejhrjschijpohoejc’yyhpntmychijhqjfjgo
mjxmyjkhOeuo’phuyyhNhfughexmjhaxskhUgqhoxhbunghpntmychoeuo—zeuo
ubxgnjp,hzeuohoxny!kkkhXgj’phzexyjhynajhs ngjq!”hUbunghpejhsjfuyyjq
zeuohoejhcx gbhmjupugohzxtugheuqhpunq,hugqhubunghpejhzuphsjrxyojqhuo
oejhoex beo;hi ohpejhfx yqhgxohejymhuqtnoongbhoeuohoejsjhzuphuhbsunghxa
is ouyhos oehnghoejhzxsqpk

“Nphnohaushgxz,hTneuny?”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhupljqhoejhfx gongb-ex pj
fyjsl,hoxho sghejshtngqhasxthoex beophoeuohzjsjhasnbeojgngbhejsk

“Asxthoenphrnyyubj,hoejchpuc,hno’phanrjhtnyjpk”hOejhfussnubjhqsxrj
uyxgbhoejhrnyyubjhposjjohugqhxgoxhuhisnqbjkhXghoejhisnqbjhzuphuhfsxzq
xahmjupugohzxtjghznoehfxnyphxahonjphaxshoejhpejurjphxghoejnshpex yqjsp,
bunychugqhgxnpnychfeuoojsngbkhOejchpoxxqhponyyhxghoejhisnqbj,hpousngb
ngw npnonrjychuohoejhfussnubjkhUyyhoejhaufjpho sgjqhoxhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhyxxljqhoxhejshejuyoechugqheummc,htulngbhejshjgrnx phxa
oejnshjg.xctjgohxahynajkh“Oejc’sjhuyyhynrngb,hoejc’sjhuyyhjg.xcngb
ynaj,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhponyyht pjqhzejghpejheuqhmuppjqhoejhmjupugo
zxtjghugqhzuphqsnrngbh menyyhubunghuohuhosxo,hpjuojqhfxtaxsouiychxghoej
pxaohpmsngbphxahoejhxyqhfussnubj,h“zenyjhN,hyjohx o,huphnohzjsjhasxt
msnpxg,hasxthoejhzxsyqhxahzxssnjphoeuohasjohtjhoxhqjuoe,huthxgyc
yxxlngbhuix ohtjhgxzhaxshughngpougokhOejchuyyhynrj;hoexpjhmjupugohzxtjg
ugqhtchpnpojshGuouynuhugqhRusjgluhugqhUggu,hzexthNhuthbxngbhoxhpjj—uyy,
i ohgxohNk

“UgqhoejchuoouflhUggukhZeuohaxs?huthNhugchijoojs?hNheurj,hugczuc,hu
e piugqhNhyxrj—gxohuphNhpex yqhynljhoxhyxrjhent,hponyyhNhqxhyxrjhent,
zenyjhUgguhgjrjshyxrjqhejspkhExzhnphpejhoxhiyutj?hPejhzugophoxhynrjk
Bxqheuphm ohoeuohnghx shejusopkhRjschynljychNhpex yqheurjhqxgjhoej
putjkhJrjghoxhoenphquchNhqxg’ohajjyhp sjhNhqnqhsnbeohnghynpojgngbhox
ejshuohoeuohojssniyjhontjhzejghpejhfutjhoxhtjhnghTxpfxzkhNhx beohoejg
oxheurjhfupohxaahtche piugqhugqheurjhijb ghtchynajhasjpekhNhtnbeoheurj
yxrjqhugqheurjhijjghyxrjqhnghsjuynockhUgqhnphnohugchijoojshuphnohnp?hN
qxg’ohsjpmjfohentkhEj’phgjfjppuschoxhtj,”hpejhoex beohuix ohejs
e piugq,h“ugqhNhm oh mhznoehentkhNphoeuohugchijoojs?hUohoeuohontjhN
fx yqhponyyheurjhijjghuqtnsjq,hNheuqhiju ochyjaohtjhponyy,”hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhm sp jqhejshoex beop,hugqhpejhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhyxxlhuo
ejspjyahnghoejhyxxlngb-byuppkhPejheuqhuhosurjyngbhyxxlngb-byupphnghejs
eugqiub,hugqhpejhzugojqhoxhouljhnohx o;hi ohyxxlngbhuohoejhiuflphxahoej
fxufetughugqhoejhpzucngbhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjsl,hpejhajyohoeuohpejhzx yq
ijhupeutjqhnahjnoejshxahoejthzjsjhoxhyxxlhsx gq,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohoulj
x ohoejhbyuppk

I ohznoex ohyxxlngbhnghoejhbyupp,hpejhoex beohoeuohjrjghgxzhnohzuphgxo
oxxhyuoj;hugqhpejhoex beohxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzexhzuphuyzucp
musonf yusychuoojgonrjhoxhejs,hxahPonru’phbxxq-ejusojqhasnjgq,
O sxropng,hzexheuqhejymjqhejshg spjhejshfenyqsjghoesx behoej
pfusyuongu,hugqhzuphnghyxrjhznoehejskhUgqhoejsjhzuphpxtjxgjhjypj,hu
w nojhcx gbhtug,hzex—ejshe piugqheuqhoxyqhejshnohuphuh.xlj—oex beohejs
txsjhiju ona yhoeughjnoejshxahejshpnpojspkhUgqhoejhtxpohmuppnxguojhugq
ntmxppniyjhsxtugfjphsxpjhijaxsjhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phntubnguonxgkh“Uggu
qnqhw nojhsnbeo,hugqhfjsoungychNhpeuyyhgjrjshsjmsxufehejshaxshnokhPej
npheummc,hpejhtuljphugxoejshmjspxgheummc,hugqhpej’phgxohisxljghqxzghup
Nhut,hi ohtxpohynljych. pohuphpejhuyzucphzup,hisnbeo,hfyjrjs,hxmjghox
jrjschntmsjppnxg,”hoex beohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,—ugqhuhpychptnyjhf srjq
ejshynmp,haxs,huphpejhmxgqjsjqhxghUggu’phyxrjhuaauns,hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhfxgpos fojqhxghmusuyyjyhyngjphughuytxpohnqjgonfuyhyxrj
uaaunshaxshejspjya,hznoehughntubnguschfxtmxpnojhanb sj,hoejhnqjuyhtug
zexhzuphnghyxrjhznoehejskhPej,hynljhUggu,hfxgajppjqhoejhzexyjhuaaunshox
ejshe piugqkhUgqhoejhutudjtjgohugqhmjsmyjvnochxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofehuo
oenphurxzuyhtuqjhejshptnyjk

Nghp fehqucqsjutphpejhsjufejqhoejho sgngbhxahoejhenbesxuqhoeuohyjqhox
Rxdqrndejgplxjk


Feumojsh17

Oejhfxufetughm yyjqh mhenphax shexspjphugqhyxxljqhsx gqhoxhoejhsnbeo,
oxhuhanjyqhxahscj,hzejsjhpxtjhmjupugophzjsjhpnoongbhxghuhfusokhOej
fx gongb-ex pjhfyjslhzuph. pohbxngbhoxh. tmhqxzg,hi ohxghpjfxgq
oex beophejhpex ojqhmjsjtmoxsnychoxhoejhmjupugophngpojuq,hugqhijflxgjq
oxhoejthoxhfxtjh mkhOejhzngq,hoeuohpjjtjqhoxhiyxzhuphoejchqsxrj,
qsxmmjqhzejghoejhfussnubjhpoxxqhponyy;hbuqaynjphpjooyjqhxghoejhpojutngb
exspjphoeuohugbsnychpexxlhoejthxaakhOejhtjouyynfhfyuglhxahuhzejopoxgj
ubungpohuhpfcoej,hoeuohfutjhoxhoejthasxthoejhfuso,hfjupjqkhXgjhxahoej
mjupugophbxoh mhugqhfutjhoxzusqphoejhfussnubjk

“Zjyy,hcx husjhpyxz!”hoejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjslhpex ojqhugbsnychoxhoej
mjupugohzexhzuphpojmmngbhpyxzychznoehenphiusjhajjohxrjshoejhs ophxahoej
sx behqschsxuqkh“Fxtjhuyxgb,hqx!”

Uhf syc-ejuqjqhxyqhtughznoehuhinohxahiupohonjqhsx gqhenpheuns,hugqhenp
ijgohiuflhquslhznoehmjspmnsuonxg,hfutjhoxzusqphoejhfussnubj,hw nfljgngb
enphpojmp,hugqhoxxlhexyqhxahoejht q-b usqhznoehenphp gi sgoheugqk

“Rxdqrndejgplxj,hoejhtugxshex pj?hoejhfx go’p?”hejhsjmjuojq;h“bxhxghox
oejhjgqhxahoenphosuflkhOejgho sghoxhoejhyjaokhPosunbeohuyxgbhoejhurjg j
ugqhcx ’yyhfxtjhsnbeoh mxghnokhI ohzexthqxhcx hzugo?hOejhfx go
entpjya?”

“Zjyy,husjhoejchuohextj,htchbxxqhtug?”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpunqhrub jyc,
gxohlgxzngbhexzhoxhuplhuix ohUggu,hjrjghxahoenphmjupugok

“Uohextjhaxshp sj,”hpunqhoejhmjupugo,hpenaongbhasxthxgjhiusjhaxxohox
oejhxoejs,hugqhyjurngbhuhqnpongfohmsngohxahanrjhoxjphugqhuhejjyhnghoej
q pokh“P sjhoxhijhuohextj,”hejhsjmjuojq,hjrnqjgoychjubjshoxhouylkh“Xgyc
cjpojsquchrnpnoxsphussnrjqkhOejsj’phuhpnbeohxahrnpnoxsphfxtjkhZeuohqx
cx hzugo?”hEjho sgjqhsx gqhugqhfuyyjqhoxhuhyuq,hzexhzuphpex ongb
pxtjoengbhoxhenthasxthoejhfusokh“Xe!hOejchuyyhsxqjhichejsjhgxohyxgb
pngfj,hoxhyxxlhuohuhsjumngbhtufengjkhOejc’yyhijhextjhichgxzkhUgqhzex
znyyhcx hijhijyxgbngbhox?kkk”

“Zj’rjhfxtjhuhyxgbhzuc,”hpunqhoejhfxufetug,hfyntingbhxgoxhoejhixvkh“Px
no’phgxohaus?”

“Nhojyyhcx ,hno’ph. pohejsjkhUphpxxghuphcx hbjohx okkkk”hejhpunq,
ljjmngbhexyqhuyyhoejhzenyjhxahoejhfussnubjk

Uhejuyoec-yxxlngb,hisxuq-pex yqjsjqhcx gbhajyyxzhfutjh mhoxxk

“Zeuo,hnphnohyuixsjsphoejchzugohaxshoejheusrjpo?”hejhupljqk

“Nhqxg’ohlgxz,htchixck”

“Pxhcx hljjmhoxhoejhyjao,hugqhcx ’yyhfxtjhsnbeohxghno,”hpunqhoej
mjupugo,h gtnpouluiychyxoehoxhyjohoejhosurjyjsphbx,hugqhjubjshox
fxgrjspjk

Oejhfxufetughpousojqhoejhexspjp,hi ohoejchzjsjhxgych. poho sgngbhxaa
zejghoejhmjupugohpex ojq:h“Poxm!hEn,hasnjgq!hPoxm!”hfuyyjqhoejhozx
rxnfjpkhOejhfxufetughpoxmmjqk

“Oejc’sjhfxtngb!hOejc’sjhcxgqjs!”hpex ojqhoejhmjupugokh“Pjjhzeuohu
o sg-x o!”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhax shmjspxgphxghexspjiufl,hugqhozxhnghu
_feus-à-iugf_,hfxtngbhuyxgbhoejhsxuqk

OejchzjsjhRsxgplchznoehuh.xfljc,hRjpyxrplchugqhUgguhxghexspjiufl,hugq
MsngfjpphRusrusuhugqhPrnudeplchnghoejh_feus-à-iugf_khOejcheuqhbxgjhx o
oxhyxxlhuohoejhzxslngbhxahuhgjzhsjumngbhtufengjk

Zejghoejhfussnubjhpoxmmjq,hoejhmusochxghexspjiuflhzjsjhfxtngbhuohu
zuylngbhmufjkhUgguhzuphnghasxgohijpnqjhRjpyxrplckhUggu,hw njoychzuylngb
ejshexspj,huhpo sqchJgbynpehfxihznoehfsxmmjqhtugjhugqhpexsohouny,hejs
iju ona yhejuqhznoehejshiyuflheunshposucngbhyxxpjh gqjshejshenbeheuo,
ejsha yyhpex yqjsp,hejshpyjgqjshzunpohnghejshiyuflhsnqngbheuino,hugq
uyyhoejhjupjhugqhbsufjhxahejshqjmxsotjgo,hntmsjppjqhQxyyck

Axshoejhanspohtng ojhnohpjjtjqhoxhejsh gp nouiyjhaxshUgguhoxhijhxg
exspjiuflkhOejhfxgfjmonxghxahsnqngbhxghexspjiuflhaxshuhyuqchzup,hng
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phtngq,huppxfnuojqhznoehnqjuphxahcx oea yhaynsouonxg
ugqhasnrxynoc,hzenfe,hnghejshxmngnxg,hzuph gijfxtngbhnghUggu’p
mxpnonxgkhI ohzejghpejheuqhpfs ongndjqhejs,hpjjngbhejshfyxpjs,hpejhzup
uohxgfjhsjfxgfnyjqhoxhejshsnqngbkhNghpmnojhxahejshjyjbugfj,hjrjscoengb
zuphpxhpntmyj,hw njo,hugqhqnbgnanjqhnghoejhuoono qj,hoejhqsjpphugqhoej
txrjtjgophxahUggu,hoeuohgxoengbhfx yqheurjhijjghtxsjhguo suyk

IjpnqjhUggu,hxghuhexo-yxxlngbhbsuchfuruyschexspj,hzuphRuppjglu
RjpyxrplchnghenphPfxofehfumhznoehayxuongbhsniixgp,henphpox ohyjbp
posjofejqhx ohnghasxgo,hxirnx pychmyjupjqhznoehenphxzghummjusugfjk
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhfx yqhgxohp mmsjpphuhbxxq-e txsjqhptnyjhuphpej
sjfxbgndjqhentkhIjengqhsxqjhRsxgplchxghuhquslhiuchtusj,hxirnx pyc
ejuojqhasxthbuyyxmngbkhEjhzuphexyqngbhejshng,hm yyngbhuohoejhsjngpk

Uaojshenthsxqjhuhynooyjhtughnghoejhqsjpphxahuh.xfljckhPrnudeplchugq
MsngfjpphRusrusuhnghuhgjzh_feus-à-iugf_hznoehuhinb,hsurjg-iyufl
osxoongbhexspj,hxrjsoxxlhoejhmusochxghexspjiuflk

Uggu’phaufjhp qqjgychijutjqhznoehuh.xca yhptnyjhuohoejhngpougohzejg,hng
oejhynooyjhanb sjhe qqyjqhnghuhfxsgjshxahoejhxyqhfussnubj,hpej
sjfxbgndjqhQxyyckhPejh oojsjqhuhfsc,hpousojqhnghoejhpuqqyj,hugqhpjohejs
exspjhngoxhuhbuyyxmkhXghsjufengbhoejhfussnubjhpejh. tmjqhxaahznoex o
uppnpougfj,hugqhexyqngbh mhejshsnqngbheuino,hpejhsugh mhoxhbsjjohQxyyck

“Nhoex beohnohzuphcx hugqhqusjqhgxohoenglhnokhExzhqjynbeoa y!hCx hfug’o
augfchexzhbyuqhNhut!”hpejhpunq,huohxgjhtxtjgohmsjppngbhejshaufjhubungpo
Qxyychugqhlnppngbhejs,hugqhuohoejhgjvohexyqngbhejshxaahugqhjvutngngb
ejshznoehuhptnyjk

“Ejsj’phuhqjynbeoa yhp smsnpj,hUyjvjc!”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhsx gqhuo
Rsxgplc,hzexheuqhqnptx gojq,hugqhzuphzuylngbhoxzusqphoejtk

Rsxgplc,houlngbhxaahenphouyyhbsucheuo,hzjgoh mhoxhQxyyck

“Cx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhexzhbyuqhzjhusjhoxhpjjhcx ,”hejhpunq,hbnrngb
mjf ynushpnbgnanfugfjhoxhoejhzxsqp,hugqhpexzngbhenphposxgbhzenojhojjoe
nghuhptnyjk

RuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,hznoex ohbjoongbhxaahenphexspj,hoxxlhxaahenphfumhugq
bsjjojqhoejhrnpnoxshichbyjja yychzurngbhoejhsniixgphxrjshenphejuqk

“Oeuo’phMsngfjpphRusrusu,”hUgguhpunqhnghsjmychoxhuhbyugfjhxahngw nsc
asxthQxyychuphoejh_feus-à-iugf_hqsxrjh mk

“Ue!”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hugqh gfxgpfnx pychejshaufjhijosucjqhejs
qnppuonpaufonxgk

MsngfjpphRusrusuhzuphejshe piugq’phu go,hugqhpejheuqhyxgbhlgxzghejs,
ugqhqnqhgxohsjpmjfohejskhPejhlgjzhoeuohMsngfjpphRusrusuheuqhmuppjqhejs
zexyjhynajhoxuqcngbhxghejshsnfehsjyuonxgp,hi ohoeuohpejhpex yqhgxzhij
pmxgbngbhxghRsxgplc,huhtughzexhzuphgxoengbhoxhejs,htxsonanjqhQxyychxg
uffx gohxahejshlngpenmhznoehejshe piugqkhUgguhgxonfjqhQxyyc’p
jvmsjppnxg,hugqhzuphqnpfxgfjsojqhichnokhPejhiy pejq,hqsxmmjqhejshsnqngb
euino,hugqhpo tiyjqhxrjshnok

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzjgoh mhoxhoejh_feus-à-iugf_hugqhfxyqychbsjjojq
MsngfjpphRusrusukhPrnudeplchoxxhpejhlgjzkhEjhngw nsjqhexzhenphw jjs
asnjgqhznoehoejhcx gbhznajhzup,hugqhs ggngbhenphjcjphxrjshoej
nyy-tuofejqhexspjphugqhoejhfussnubjhznoehnophmuofejqht q-b usqp,
msxmxpjqhoxhoejhyuqnjphoeuohoejchpex yqhbjohngoxhoejh_feus-à-iugf_k

“UgqhN’yyhbjohngoxhoenphrjenfyj,”hejhpunqkh“Oejhexspjhnphw njo,hugqhoej
msngfjpphqsnrjphfumnouyyck”

“Gx,hpouchuphcx hzjsj,”hpunqhUggu,hfxtngbh m,h“ugqhzj’yyhbxhnghoej
fussnubj,”hugqhoulngbhQxyyc’phust,hpejhqsjzhejshuzuck

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phjcjphzjsjhaunsychquddyjqhichoejhjyjbugohfussnubj
xahuhmuoojsghpejheuqhgjrjshpjjghijaxsj,hoejhpmyjgqnqhexspjp,hugqhoej
jyjbugohugqhbxsbjx phmjxmyjhp ssx gqngbhejskhI ohzeuohpos flhejshtxpo
xahuyyhzuphoejhfeugbjhoeuoheuqhouljghmyufjhnghUggu,hzexthpejhlgjzhpx
zjyyhugqhyxrjqkhUgchxoejshzxtug,huhyjpphfyxpjhxipjsrjs,hgxohlgxzngb
Ugguhijaxsj,hxshgxoheurngbhoex beohuphQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhijjg
oenglngbhxghoejhsxuq,hzx yqhgxoheurjhgxonfjqhugcoengbhpmjfnuyhnghUgguk
I ohgxzhQxyychzuphpos flhichoeuohojtmxsuschiju oc,hzenfehnphxgychax gq
nghzxtjghq sngbhoejhtxtjgophxahyxrj,hugqhzenfehpejhpuzhgxzhnghUggu’p
aufjkhJrjscoengbhnghejshaufj,hoejhfyjusychtusljqhqntmyjphnghejshfejjlp
ugqhfeng,hoejhyngjhxahejshynmp,hoejhptnyjhzenfe,huphnohzjsj,hay oojsjq
uix ohejshaufj,hoejhisnyynugfjhxahejshjcjp,hoejhbsufjhugqhsumnqnochxa
ejshtxrjtjgop,hoejha ygjpphxahoejhgxojphxahejshrxnfj,hjrjghoejhtuggjs
nghzenfe,hznoehuhpxsohxahugbschasnjgqyngjpp,hpejhugpzjsjqhRjpyxrplc
zejghejhupljqhmjstnppnxghoxhbjohxghejshfxi,hpxhuphoxhojufehnohoxhbuyyxm
znoehoejhsnbeohyjbhaxsjtxpo—nohzuphuyyhmjf ynusychaupfnguongb,hugqhno
pjjtjqhuphnahpejhzjsjhejspjyahuzusjhxahno,hugqhsj.xnfngbhnghnok

Zejghixoehoejhzxtjghzjsjhpjuojqhnghoejhfussnubj,huhp qqjghjtiussupptjgo
futjhxrjshixoehxahoejtkhUgguhzuphqnpfxgfjsojqhichoejhngojgohyxxlhxa
ngw nschQxyychanvjqh mxghejskhQxyychzuphjtiussuppjqhijfu pjhuaojs
Prnudeplc’phmesupjhuix oh“oenphrjenfyj,”hpejhfx yqhgxohejymhajjyngb
upeutjqhxahoejhqnsochxyqhfussnubjhnghzenfehUgguhzuphpnoongbhznoehejsk
OejhfxufetughMenynmhugqhoejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjslhzjsjhjvmjsnjgfngbhoej
putjhpjgpuonxgkhOejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjsl,hoxhfxgfjuyhenphfxga pnxg,
i pnjqhentpjyahpjooyngbhoejhyuqnjp,hi ohMenynmhoejhfxufetughijfutj
p yyjg,hugqhzuphisufngbhentpjyahgxohoxhijhxrjsuzjqhngha o sjhichoenp
jvojsguyhp mjsnxsnockhEjhptnyjqhnsxgnfuyyc,hyxxlngbhuohoejhsurjghexspj,
ugqhzuphuysjuqchqjfnqngbhnghenphxzghtngqhoeuohoenphptusohosxoojshnghoej
_feus-à-iugf_hzuphxgychbxxqhaxsh_msxtjgubj_,hugqhzx yqg’ohqxhoensoc
tnyjphposunbeohxaahnghoejhejuok

Oejhmjupugopheuqhuyyhbxoh mhasxthoejhfusohugqhzjsjhngw npnonrjychugq
tnsoea yychpousngbhuohoejhtjjongbhxahoejhasnjgqp,htulngbhoejnshfxttjgop
xghnok

“Oejc’sjhmyjupjq,hoxx;heurjg’ohpjjghjufehxoejshaxshuhyxgbhzenyj,”hpunq
oejhf syc-ejuqjqhxyqhtughznoehoejhiupohsx gqhenpheunsk

“Nhpuc,h gfyjhBjsupnt,hnahzjhfx yqhouljhoeuohsurjghexspjhgxz,hoxhfuso
oejhfxsg,hoeuoh’ qhijhw nflhzxsl!”

“Yxxl-jj!hNphoeuohuhzxtughnghisjjfejp?”hpunqhxgjhxahoejt,hmxngongbhox
RuppjgluhRjpyxrplchpnoongbhnghuhpnqjhpuqqyjk

“Guc,huhtug!hPjjhexzhptusoychej’phbxngbhno!”

“Je,hyuqp!hpjjtphzj’sjhgxohbxngbhoxhpyjjm,hoejg?”

“Zeuohfeugfjhxahpyjjmhoxquc!”hpunqhoejhxyqhtug,hznoehuhpnqjyxgbhyxxlhuo
oejhp gkh“Tnqquc’phmupo,hyxxl-jj!hBjohcx shexxlp,hugqhfxtjhuyxgb!”


Feumojsh18

UgguhyxxljqhuohQxyyc’phoeng,hfusj-zxsghaufj,hznoehnophzsnglyjphanyyjq
znoehq pohasxthoejhsxuq,hugqhpejhzuphxghoejhmxngohxahpucngbhzeuohpej
zuphoenglngb,hoeuohnp,hoeuohQxyycheuqhbxohoenggjskhI o,hfxgpfnx phoeuo
pejhejspjyaheuqhbsxzgheugqpxtjs,hugqhoeuohQxyyc’phjcjphzjsjhojyyngbhejs
px,hpejhpnbejqhugqhijbughoxhpmjulhuix ohejspjyak

“Cx husjhyxxlngbhuohtj,”hpejhpunq,h“ugqhzxgqjsngbhexzhNhfughijheummchng
tchmxpnonxg?hZjyy!hno’phpeutja yhoxhfxgajpp,hi ohNhkkkhN’thngjvf puiyc
eummckhPxtjoengbhtubnfuyheupheummjgjqhoxhtj,hynljhuhqsjut,hzejghcx ’sj
asnbeojgjq,hmugnf-posnfljg,hugqhuyyhxahuhp qqjghcx hzuljh mhugqhuyyhoej
exssxsphusjhgxhtxsjkhNheurjhzuljqh mkhNheurjhynrjqhoesx behoejhtnpjsc,
oejhqsjuq,hugqhgxzhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhmupo,hjpmjfnuyychpngfjhzj’rjhijjg
ejsj,hN’rjhijjghpxheummc!kkk”hpejhpunq,hznoehuhontnqhptnyjhxahngw nsc
yxxlngbhuohQxyyck

“ExzhbyuqhNhut!”hpunqhQxyychptnyngb,hngrxy gousnychpmjulngbhtxsjhfxyqyc
oeughpejhzugojqhoxkh“N’thrjschbyuqhaxshcx khZecheurjg’ohcx hzsnoojghox
tj?”

“Zec?kkkhIjfu pjhNheuqg’ohoejhfx subjkkkkhCx haxsbjohtchmxpnonxgkkkk”

“Oxhtj?hEuqg’ohoejhfx subj?hNahcx hlgjzhexzhNhkkkhNhyxxlhuokkkk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzugojqhoxhjvmsjpphejshoex beophxahoejhtxsgngb,hi o
axshpxtjhsjupxghnohpjjtjqhoxhejshgxzhx ohxahmyufjhoxhqxhpxk

“I ohxahoeuohzj’yyhouylhyuojskhZeuo’phoenp,hzeuohusjhuyyhoejpj
i nyqngbp?”hpejhupljq,hzugongbhoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxghugqhmxngongb
oxhoejhsjqhugqhbsjjghsxxaphoeuohfutjhngoxhrnjzhijengqhoejhbsjjghejqbjp
xahufufnuhugqhynyufkh“W nojhuhynooyjhoxzgk”

I ohUgguhqnqhgxohugpzjsk

“Gx,hgx!hExzhqxhcx hyxxlhuohtchmxpnonxg,hzeuohqxhcx hoenglhxahno?”hpej
upljqk

“Nhfxgpnqjskkkk”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphijbnggngb,hi ohuohoeuohngpougo
RuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,heurngbhisx beohoejhfxihoxhbuyyxmhznoehoejhsnbeohyjb
axsjtxpo,hbuyyxmjqhmupohoejt,hi tmngbhejurnych mhugqhqxzghnghenphpexso
.ufljohxghoejhfeutxnphyjuoejshxahoejhpnqjhpuqqyjkh“Ej’phqxngbhno,hUggu
Usluqcjrgu!”hejhpex ojqk

Ugguhqnqhgxohjrjghbyugfjhuohent;hi ohubunghnohpjjtjqhoxhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhx ohxahmyufjhoxhjgojsh mxghp fehuhyxgbhfxgrjspuonxghnghoej
fussnubj,hugqhpxhpejhf ohpexsohejshoex beok

“Nhqxg’ohoenglhugcoengb,”hpejhpunq,h“i ohNhuyzucphyxrjqhcx ,hugqhnahxgj
yxrjphugcxgj,hxgjhyxrjphoejhzexyjhmjspxg,h. pohuphoejchusjhugqhgxohup
xgjhzx yqhynljhoejthoxhijkkkk”

Uggu,houlngbhejshjcjphxaahejshasnjgq’phaufjhugqhqsxmmngbhejshjcjynqp
(oenphzuphuhgjzheuinohQxyycheuqhgxohpjjghnghejshijaxsj),hmxgqjsjq,
oscngbhoxhmjgjosuojhoejha yyhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoejhzxsqpkhUgqhxirnx pyc
ngojsmsjongbhoejthuphpejhzx yqheurjhznpejq,hpejhbyugfjqhuohQxyyck

“Nahcx heuqhugchpngp,”hpejhpunq,h“oejchzx yqhuyyhijhaxsbnrjghcx haxs
cx shfxtngbhoxhpjjhtjhugqhoejpjhzxsqpk”

UgqhQxyychpuzhoeuohojusphpoxxqhnghejshjcjpkhPejhmsjppjqhUggu’pheugqhng
pnyjgfjk

“Zjyy,hzeuohusjhoejpjhi nyqngbp?hExzhtugchoejsjhusjhxahoejt!”hUaojshu
txtjgo’phpnyjgfjhpejhsjmjuojqhejshw jponxgk

“Oejpjhusjhoejhpjsrugop’hex pjp,hiusgp,hugqhpouiyjp,”hugpzjsjqhUgguk
“UgqhoejsjhoejhmuslhijbngpkhNoheuqhuyyhbxgjhoxhs ng,hi ohUyjvjcheuq
jrjscoengbhsjgjzjqkhEjhnphrjschaxgqhxahoenphmyufj,hugq,hzeuohNhgjrjs
jvmjfojq,hejheuphijfxtjhngojgpjychngojsjpojqhnghyxxlngbhuaojshnokhI o
enphnphp fehuhsnfehguo sj!hZeuojrjshejhouljph m,hejhqxjphpmyjgqnqyckhPx
aushasxthijngbhixsjqhichno,hejhzxslphznoehmuppnxguojhngojsjpokhEj—znoe
enphojtmjsutjgohuphNhlgxzhno—ejheuphijfxtjhfusja yhugqhi pngjppynlj,hu
anspo-suojhtugubjs,hejhmxpnonrjychsjflxgphjrjschmjggchnghenphtugubjtjgo
xahoejhyugqkhI ohxgychnghoeuokhZejghno’phuhw jponxghxahojgphxa
oex pugqp,hejhqxjpg’ohoenglhxahtxgjck”hPejhpmxljhznoehoeuohbyjja yyc
pychptnyjhznoehzenfehzxtjghxaojghouylhxahoejhpjfsjohfeusufojsnponfp
xgychlgxzghoxhoejt—xahoexpjhoejchyxrjkh“Qxhcx hpjjhoeuohinbhi nyqngb?
oeuo’phoejhgjzhexpmnouykhNhijynjrjhnohznyyhfxpohxrjshuhe gqsjq
oex pugq;hoeuo’phenphexiich. pohgxzkhUgqhqxhcx hlgxzhexzhnohuyyhfutj
uix o?hOejhmjupugophupljqhenthaxshpxtjhtjuqxzyugq,hNhoenglhnohzup,huohu
fejumjshsuoj,hugqhejhsja pjq,hugqhNhuff pjqhenthxahijngbhtnpjsyckhXa
fx spjhnohzuphgxohsjuyychijfu pjhxahoeuo,hi ohjrjscoengbhoxbjoejs,hej
ijbughoenphexpmnouyhoxhmsxrj,hqxhcx hpjj,hoeuohejhzuphgxohtnpjsychuix o
txgjckh_F’jpoh gjhmjonojppj_,hnahcx hynlj,hi ohNhyxrjhenthuyyhoejhtxsj
axshnokhUgqhgxzhcx ’yyhpjjhoejhex pjhnghuhtxtjgokhNohzuphenp
bsugqauoejs’phex pj,hugqhejheupheuqhgxoengbhfeugbjqhx opnqjk”

“Exzhiju ona y!”hpunqhQxyyc,hyxxlngbhznoehngrxy gouschuqtnsuonxghuohoej
eugqpxtjhex pjhznoehfxy tgp,hpougqngbhx ohutxgbhoejhqnaajsjgo-fxyxsjq
bsjjgphxahoejhxyqhosjjphnghoejhbusqjgk

“Npg’ohnohangj?hUgqhasxthoejhex pj,hasxthoejhoxm,hoejhrnjzhnp
zxgqjsa yk”

Oejchqsxrjhngoxhuhfx socusqhposjzghznoehbsurjyhugqhisnbeohznoehayxzjsp,
nghzenfehozxhyuixsjsphzjsjhuohzxslhm oongbhughjqbngbhxahpoxgjphsx gq
oejhynbeohtx yqhxahuhayxzjshijq,hugqhqsjzh mhnghuhfxrjsjqhjgosck

“Ue,hoejc’sjhejsjhuysjuqc!”hpunqhUggu,hyxxlngbhuohoejhpuqqyjhexspjp,
zenfehzjsjh. pohijngbhyjqhuzuchasxthoejhpojmpkh“Nohnphuhgnfjhexspj,
npg’ohno?hNo’phtchfxi;htchaurxsnojkhYjuqhenthejsjhugqhisngbhtjhpxtj
p buskhZejsjhnphoejhfx go?”hpejhngw nsjqhxahozxhptusohaxxotjghzex
qusojqhx okh“Ue,hoejsjhejhnp!”hpejhpunq,hpjjngbhRsxgplchfxtngbhoxhtjjo
ejshznoehRjpyxrplck

“Zejsjhusjhcx hbxngbhoxhm ohoejhmsngfjpp?”hpunqhRsxgplchnghAsjgfe,
uqqsjppngbhUggu,hugqhznoex ohzunongbhaxshuhsjmyc,hejhxgfjhtxsjhbsjjojq
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hugqhoenphontjhejhlnppjqhejsheugqkh“Nhoenglhoejhinb
iuyfxgchsxxtk”

“Xe,hgx,hoeuo’phoxxhaushxaa!hIjoojshnghoejhfxsgjshsxxt,hzjhpeuyyhpjj
jufehxoejshtxsjkhFxtj,hyjo’phbxh m,”hpunqhUggu,huphpejhburjhejs
aurxsnojhexspjhoejhp bushoejhaxxotugheuqhisx beohejsk

“_Johrx phx iynjdhrxosjhqjrxns_,”hpejhpunqhoxhRjpyxrplc,hzexhfutjhx o
oxxhxghoejhpojmpk

“_Musqxg,h.’jghunhox ohmyjnghyjphmxfejp_,”hejhugpzjsjq,hptnyngb,
m oongbhenphangbjsphnghenphzunpofxuohmxfljok

“_Tunphrx phrjgjdhosxmhousq_,”hpejhpunq,hs iingbhejsheugqljsfenjahxg
ejsheugq,hzenfehoejhexspjheuqhtuqjhzjohnghoulngbhoejhp busk

Ugguho sgjqhoxhQxyyckh“Cx hfughpouchpxtjhontj?hAxshxgjhquchxgyc?hOeuo’p
ntmxppniyj!”

“Nhmsxtnpjqhoxhijhiufl,hugqhoejhfenyqsjgkkkk”hpunqhQxyyc,hajjyngb
jtiussuppjqhixoehijfu pjhpejheuqhoxhbjohejshiubhx ohxahoejhfussnubj,
ugqhijfu pjhpejhlgjzhejshaufjht pohijhfxrjsjqhznoehq pok

“Gx,hQxyyc,hqusyngb!kkkhZjyy,hzj’yyhpjjkhFxtjhuyxgb,hfxtjhuyxgb!”hugq
UgguhyjqhQxyychoxhejshsxxtk

Oeuohsxxthzuphgxohoejhptusohb jpohfeutijshRsxgplcheuqhp bbjpojq,hi o
oejhxgjhxahzenfehUgguheuqhpunqhoeuohQxyychzx yqhjvf pjhnokhUgqhoenp
sxxt,haxshzenfehjvf pjhzuphgjjqjq,hzuphtxsjha yyhxahy v schoeughugchng
zenfehQxyycheuqhjrjshpoucjq,huhy v schoeuohsjtngqjqhejshxahoejhijpo
exojyphuisxuqk

“Zjyy,hqusyngb,hexzheummchNhut!”hUgguhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzghnghejshsnqngb
euinohaxshuhtxtjgohijpnqjhQxyyckh“Ojyyhtjhuix ohuyyhxahcx khPonruhNheuq
xgychuhbyntmpjhxa,hugqhejhfuggxohojyyhxgjhuix ohoejhfenyqsjgkhExzhnphtc
aurxsnoj,hOugcu?hW nojhuhinbhbnsy,hNhjvmjfo?”

“Cjp,hpej’phrjschouyy,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhugpzjsjqhpexsoyc,hp smsnpjq
ejspjyahoeuohpejhpex yqhsjpmxgqhpxhfxxyychuix ohejshfenyqsjgkh“Zjhusj
eurngbhuhqjynbeoa yhpouchuohoejhYjrngp’,”hpejhuqqjqk

“Xe,hnahNheuqhlgxzg,”hpunqhUggu,h“oeuohcx hqxhgxohqjpmnpjhtj!kkkhCx 
tnbeoheurjhuyyhfxtjhoxh pkhPonru’phughxyqhasnjgqhugqhuhbsjuohasnjgqhxa
Uyjvjc’p,hcx hlgxz,”hpejhuqqjq,hugqhp qqjgychpejhiy pejqk

“Cjp,hi ohzjhusjhuyykkkk”hQxyychugpzjsjqhnghfxga pnxgk

“I ohnghtchqjynbeohN’thouylngbhgxgpjgpjkhOejhxgjhoengb,hqusyngb,hnp
oeuohNhuthpxhbyuqhoxheurjhcx !”hpunqhUggu,hlnppngbhejshubungkh“Cx 
eurjg’ohoxyqhtjhcjohexzhugqhzeuohcx hoenglhuix ohtj,hugqhNhljjmhzugongb
oxhlgxzkhI ohN’thbyuqhcx hznyyhpjjhtjhuphNhutkhOejhfenjahoengbhN
pex yqg’ohynljhzx yqhijhaxshmjxmyjhoxhntubngjhNhzugohoxhmsxrjhugcoengbk
Nhqxg’ohzugohoxhmsxrjhugcoengb;hNhtjsjychzugohoxhynrj,hoxhqxhgxhxgj
eusthi ohtcpjyakhNheurjhoejhsnbeohoxhqxhoeuo,heurjg’ohN?hI ohnohnphu
inbhp i.jfo,hugqhzj’yyhouylhxrjshjrjscoengbhmsxmjsychyuojskhGxzhN’yyhbx
ugqhqsjpphugqhpjgqhuhtunqhoxhcx k”


Feumojsh19

Yjaohuyxgj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hznoehuhbxxqhex pjznaj’phjcj,hpfuggjq
ejshsxxtkhUyyhpejheuqhpjjghnghjgojsngbhoejhex pjhugqhzuylngbhoesx be
no,hugqhuyyhpejhpuzhgxzhnghejshsxxt,hburjhejshughntmsjppnxghxahzjuyoe
ugqhp tmo x pgjpphugqhxahoeuohtxqjsghJ sxmjughy v schxahzenfehpejheuq
xgychsjuqhnghJgbynpehgxrjyp,hi oheuqhgjrjshpjjghnghS ppnuhugqhnghoej
fx gosckhJrjscoengbhzuphgjzhasxthoejhgjzhAsjgfeheugbngbphxghoejhzuyyp
oxhoejhfusmjohzenfehfxrjsjqhoejhzexyjhayxxskhOejhijqheuqhuhpmsngb
tuoosjpp,hugqhuhpmjfnuyhpxsohxahixypojshugqhpnylhmnyyxzfupjphxghoej
ynooyjhmnyyxzpkhOejhtusiyjhzupepougq,hoejhqsjppngbhouiyj,hoejhynooyj
pxau,hoejhouiyjp,hoejhisxgdjhfyxflhxghoejhfentgjchmnjfj,hoejhzngqxz
f soungp,hugqhoejh_mxsonèsjp_hzjsjhuyyhgjzhugqhjvmjgpnrjk

Oejhptusohtunq,hzexhfutjhnghoxhxaajshejshpjsrnfjp,hznoehejsheunshqxgj
 mhenbe,hugqhuhbxzghtxsjhaupenxguiyjhoeughQxyyc’p,hzuphuphgjzhugq
jvmjgpnrjhuphoejhzexyjhsxxtkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhynljqhejshgjuogjpp,hejs
qjajsjgonuyhugqhxiynbngbhtuggjsp,hi ohpejhajyohnyyhuohjupjhznoehejsk
Pejhajyohupeutjqhxahejshpjjngbhoejhmuofejqhqsjppngbh.ufljohoeuoheuq
 gy flnychijjghmufljqhichtnpouljhaxshejskhPejhzuphupeutjqhxahoejhrjsc
muofejphugqhqusgjqhmyufjphxahzenfehpejheuqhijjghpxhmsx qhuohextjkhUo
extjhnoheuqhijjghpxhfyjushoeuohaxshpnvhqsjppngbh.ufljophoejsjhzx yqhij
gjjqjqhozjgoc-ax shcusqphxahgungpxxlhuohpnvojjghmjgfjhoejhcusq,hzenfe
zuphuhtuoojshxahoensochpenyyngbphijpnqjphoejhf oongb-x ohugqhtulngb,
ugqhoejpjhoensochpenyyngbpheuqhijjghpurjqkhI ohijaxsjhoejhtunqhpej
ajyo,hnahgxohjvufoychupeutjq,huohyjupoh gfxtaxsouiyjk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhuhbsjuohpjgpjhxahsjynjahzejghUgg pelu,hzexthpej
euqhlgxzghaxshcjusp,hzuyljqhngkhOejhptusohtunqhzuphpjgohaxshoxhbxhox
ejshtnposjpp,hugqhUgg peluhsjtungjqhznoehQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk

Ugg peluhzuphxirnx pycht fehmyjupjqhuohoeuohyuqc’phussnruy,hugqhijbug
oxhfeuoojshuzuchznoex ohuhmu pjkhQxyychxipjsrjqhoeuohpejhzuphyxgbngbhox
jvmsjpphejshxmngnxghnghsjbusqhoxhejshtnposjpp’phmxpnonxg,hjpmjfnuyychup
oxhoejhyxrjhugqhqjrxonxghxahoejhfx gohoxhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hi ohQxyyc
fusja yychngojss mojqhejshzejgjrjshpejhijbughoxhpmjulhuix ohoenpk

“Nhbsjzh mhznoehUgguhUsluqcjrgu;htchyuqc’phqjusjshoxhtjhoeughugcoengbk
Zjyy,hno’phgxohaxsh phoxh. qbjkhUgq,hoxhijhp sj,hoejsjhpjjtphpxht fe
yxrjkkkk”

“Lngqychmx shx ohoejhzuojshaxshtjhoxhzupehgxz,hmyjupj,”hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhf ohejshpexsok

“FjsoungyckhZj’rjhozxhzxtjghljmohpmjfnuyychaxshzupengbhptuyyhoengbp,
i ohtxpohxahoejhyngjg’phqxgjhichtufengjsckhOejhfx gohbxjphngox
jrjscoengbhentpjyakhUe,hzeuohuhe piugq!kkk”

QxyychzuphbyuqhzejghUgguhfutjhng,hugqhichejshjgosugfjhm ohuhpoxmhox
Ugg pelu’phbxppnmk

Ugguheuqhm ohxghuhrjschpntmyjhiuonpojhbxzgkhQxyychpfs ongndjqhoeuo
pntmyjhbxzghuoojgonrjyckhPejhlgjzhzeuohnohtjugo,hugqhoejhmsnfjhuohzenfe
p fehpntmynfnochzuphxioungjqk

“Ughxyqhasnjgq,”hpunqhUgguhxahUgg peluk

UgguhzuphgxohjtiussuppjqhgxzkhPejhzuphmjsajfoychfxtmxpjqhugqhuohjupjk
Qxyychpuzhoeuohpejheuqhgxzhfxtmyjojychsjfxrjsjqhasxthoejhntmsjppnxghejs
ussnruyheuqhtuqjhxghejs,hugqheuqhupp tjqhoeuohp mjsanfnuy,hfusjyjpp
oxgjhzenfe,huphnohzjsj,hfyxpjqhoejhqxxshxghoeuohfxtmusotjgohnghzenfe
ejshqjjmjshajjyngbphugqhnqjuphzjsjhljmok

“Zjyy,hUggu,hugqhexzhnphcx shynooyjhbnsy?”hupljqhQxyyck

“Uggnj?”h(Oenphzuphzeuohpejhfuyyjqhejshynooyjhqu beojshUgguk)h“Rjsc
zjyykhPejheuphbxohxghzxgqjsa yyckhZx yqhcx hynljhoxhpjjhejs?hFxtj,hN’yy
pexzhejshoxhcx khZjheuqhuhojssniyjhixoejs,”hpejhijbughojyyngbhejs,
“xrjshg spjpkhZjheuqhughNouynughzjo-g spjkhUhbxxqhfsjuo sj,hi ohpx
po mnq!hZjhzugojqhoxhbjohsnqhxahejs,hi ohoejhiuichnphpxh pjqhoxhejs
oeuohzj’rjhbxgjhxghljjmngbhejshponyyk”

“I ohexzheurjhcx htugubjq?kkk”hQxyychzuphijbnggngbhuhw jponxghuphox
zeuohgutjhoejhynooyjhbnsyhzx yqheurj;hi ohgxonfngbhuhp qqjghasxzghxg
Uggu’phaufj,hpejhfeugbjqhoejhqsnaohxahejshw jponxgk

“Exzhqnqhcx htugubj?heurjhcx hzjugjqhejshcjo?”

I ohUgguheuqh gqjspoxxqk

“Cx hqnqg’ohtjughoxhuplhoeuo?hCx htjugohoxhuplhuix ohejshp sgutjkhCjp?
OeuohzxssnjphUyjvjckhPejheuphgxhgutj—oeuohnp,hpej’phuhLusjgngu,”hpunq
Uggu,hqsxmmngbhejshjcjynqphonyyhgxoengbhfx yqhijhpjjghi ohoejhjcjyupejp
tjjongbkh“I ohzj’yyhouylhuix ohuyyhoeuohyuojs,”hejshaufjhp qqjgyc
isnbeojgngbkh“Fxtj,hN’yyhpexzhcx hejskh_Jyyjhjpohosèphbjgonyyj_khPej
fsuzyphgxzk”

Nghoejhg spjschoejhy v schzenfeheuqhntmsjppjqhQxyychnghoejhzexyjhex pj
pos flhejshponyyhtxsjkhOejsjhzjsjhynooyjhbx-fusophxsqjsjqhasxthJgbyugq,
ugqhummynugfjphaxshyjusgngbhoxhzuyl,hugqhuhpxauhuaojshoejhaupenxghxahu
inyynusqhouiyj,hm smxpjychfxgpos fojqhaxshfsuzyngb,hugqhpzngbphugq
iuoep,huyyhxahpmjfnuyhmuoojsg,hugqhtxqjsgkhOejchzjsjhuyyhJgbynpe,
pxynq,hugqhxahbxxqhtulj,hugqhxirnx pychrjschjvmjgpnrjkhOejhsxxthzup
yusbj,hugqhrjschynbeohugqhyxaock

Zejghoejchzjgohng,hoejhiuic,hznoehgxoengbhxghi ohejshynooyjhptxfl,hzup
pnoongbhnghuhynooyjhjyixzhfeunshuohoejhouiyj,heurngbhejshqnggjshxa
isxoe,hzenfehpejhzuphpmnyyngbhuyyhxrjshejshynooyjhfejpokhOejhiuichzup
ijngbhajq,hugqhoejhS ppnughg spjschtunqhzuphjrnqjgoychpeusngbhejshtjuyk
Gjnoejshoejhzjo-g spjhgxshoejhejuq-g spjhzjsjhoejsj;hoejchzjsjhnghoej
gjvohsxxt,hasxthzenfehfutjhoejhpx gqhxahoejnshfxgrjspuonxghnghoejhw jjs
Asjgfehzenfehzuphoejnshxgychtjugphxahfxtt gnfuonxgk

EjusngbhUggu’phrxnfj,huhptuso,houyy,hJgbynpehg spjhznoehuhqnpubsjjuiyj
aufjhugqhuhqnppxy ojhjvmsjppnxghzuyljqhnghuohoejhqxxs,he ssnjqyc
peulngbhejshaunshf syp,hugqhnttjqnuojychijbughoxhqjajgqhejspjyahoex be
Ugguheuqhgxohax gqhau yohznoehejskhUohjrjschzxsqhUgguhpunq,hoejhJgbynpe
g spjhpunqhe ssnjqychpjrjsuyhontjp,h“Cjp,htchyuqck”

Oejhsxpchiuichznoehejshiyuflhjcjisxzphugqheuns,hejshpo sqchsjqhynooyj
ixqchznoehonbeohbxxpj-ayjpehplng,hqjynbeojqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhnghpmnoj
xahoejhfsxpphjvmsjppnxghznoehzenfehpejhpousjqhuohoejhposugbjskhPej
mxpnonrjychjgrnjqhoejhiuic’phejuyoechummjusugfjkhPejhzuphqjynbeojq,
oxx,huohoejhiuic’phfsuzyngbkhGxohxgjhxahejshxzghfenyqsjgheuqhfsuzyjq
ynljhoeuokhZejghoejhiuichzuphm ohxghoejhfusmjohugqhnophynooyjhqsjpp
o fljqh mhijengq,hnohzuphzxgqjsa yychfeustngbkhYxxlngbhsx gqhynljhpxtj
ynooyjhznyqhugntuyhuohoejhbsxzg- mhinbhmjxmyjhznoehejshisnbeohiyufl
jcjp,hpejhptnyjq,h gtnpouluiychmyjupjqhuohoejnshuqtnsngbhejs,hugq
exyqngbhejshyjbphpnqjzucp,hpejhmsjppjqhrnbxsx pychxghejshustp,hugq
sumnqychqsjzhejshzexyjhiuflh mhuaojs,hugqhoejghtuqjhugxoejshpojm
axszusqhznoehejshynooyjhustpk

I ohoejhzexyjhuotxpmejsjhxahoejhg spjsc,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoejhJgbynpe
g spj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqnqhgxohynljhuohuyykhNohzuphxgychxghoej
p mmxpnonxghoeuohgxhbxxqhg spjhzx yqheurjhjgojsjqhpxhnssjb yushu
ex pjexyqhuphUggu’phoeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhfx yqhjvmyunghoxhejspjya
exzhUgguhznoehejshngpnbeohngoxhmjxmyjhfx yqhouljhp fehug
 gmsjmxppjppngb,hqnpsjm ouiyj-yxxlngbhzxtughuphg spjhoxhejshfenyqk

Ijpnqjp,hasxthuhajzhzxsqphoeuohzjsjhqsxmmjq,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpuzhuo
xgfjhoeuohUggu,hoejhozxhg spjp,hugqhoejhfenyqheuqhgxhfxttxghjvnpojgfj,
ugqhoeuohoejhtxoejs’phrnpnohzuphpxtjoengbhjvfjmonxguykhUgguhzugojqhox
bjohoejhiuichejshmyucoengb,hugqhfx yqhgxohangqhnok

Txpohutudngbhxahuyyhzuphoejhaufohoeuohxghijngbhupljqhexzhtugchojjoehoej
iuicheuq,hUgguhugpzjsjqhzsxgb,hugqhlgjzhgxoengbhuix ohoejhozxhyupo
ojjoek

“NhpxtjontjphajjyhpxsschN’thpxhp mjsay x phejsj,”hpunqhUggu,hbxngbhx o
xahoejhg spjschugqhexyqngbh mhejshplnsohpxhuphoxhjpfumjhoejhmyucoengb
pougqngbhnghoejhqxxszuckh“Nohzuphrjschqnaajsjgohznoehtchanspohfenyqk”

“Nhjvmjfojqhnohoxhijhoejhxoejshzuc,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpecyck

“Xe,hgx!hIchoejhzuc,hqxhcx hlgxzhNhpuzhPjscxdeu?”hpunqhUggu,hpfsjzngb
 mhejshjcjp,huphoex behyxxlngbhuohpxtjoengbhaushuzuckh“I ohzj’yyhouyl
uix ohoeuohyuojskhCx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhno,hN’thynljhuhe gbschijbbus
zxtughzejghuha yyhqnggjshnphpjohijaxsjhejs,hugqhpejhqxjphgxohlgxzhzeuo
oxhijbnghxghanspokhOejhqnggjshnphcx ,hugqhoejhouylphNheurjhijaxsjhtj
znoehcx ,hzenfehNhfx yqhgjrjsheurjhznoehugcxgjhjypj;hugqhNhqxg’ohlgxz
zenfehp i.jfohoxhijbngh mxghanspokh_Tunph.jhgjhrx phajsunhbsâfjhqj
snjg_khNht poheurjhjrjscoengbhx ohznoehcx k”

“Xe,hNhx beohoxhbnrjhcx huhpljofehxahoejhfxtmugchcx hznyyhtjjohznoe
 p,”hpejhzjgohxgkh“N’yyhijbnghznoehoejhyuqnjpkhMsngfjpphRusrusu—cx 
lgxzhejs,hugqhNhlgxzhcx shxmngnxghugqhPonru’phuix ohejskhPonruhpucphoej
zexyjhunthxahejshjvnpojgfjhnphoxhmsxrjhejshp mjsnxsnochxrjshU gonj
LuojsnguhMuryxrgu:hoeuo’phuyyhos j;hi ohpej’phuhbxxq-guo sjqhzxtug,hugq
Nhuthpxhbsuoja yhoxhejskhNghMjojspi sbhoejsjhzuphuhtxtjgohzejghu
feumjsxghzuphuipxy ojychjppjgonuyhaxshtjkhOejghpejho sgjqh mkhI o
sjuyychpejhnphbxxq-guo sjqkhPejhqnqhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhuyyjrnuojhtc
mxpnonxgkhNhpjjhcx hqxg’oh gqjspougqhuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahtchmxpnonxg
kkkhoejsjhnghMjojspi sb,”hpejhuqqjqkh“EjsjhN’thmjsajfoychuohjupjhugq
eummckhZjyy,hxahoeuohyuojshxg,hoex bekhOejghPrnudeplc—ej’phoejhtuspeuy
xahoejhqnposnfo,hugqhej’phuhrjschbxxqhpxsohxahuhtug,hi ohejhzugophox
bjohpxtjoengbhx ohxahUyjvjckhCx h gqjspougq,hznoehenphmsxmjsoc,hgxz
oeuohzjhusjhpjooyjqhnghoejhfx gosc,hUyjvjchfughjvjsfnpjhbsjuo
ngay jgfjkhOejghoejsj’phO peljrnofe—cx heurjhpjjghent,hcx hlgxz—Ijopc’p
uqtnsjskhGxzhej’phijjghoesxzghxrjshugqhej’phfxtjhoxhpjjh pkhUphUyjvjc
pucp,hej’phxgjhxahoexpjhmjxmyjhzexhusjhrjschmyjupugohnahxgjhuffjmop
oejthaxshzeuohoejchoschoxhummjushoxhij,h_johm nphnyhjpohfxttjhnyhau o_,
uphMsngfjpphRusrusuhpucpkhOejghRjpyxrplchkkkhcx hlgxzhentkhUhrjschgnfj
ixc,”hpejhpunq,hugqhuhpychptnyjhf srjqhejshynmpkh“Zeuo’phoenphznyq
poxschuix ohenthugqhoejhYjrngp?hRjpyxrplchoxyqhUyjvjchuix ohno,hugqhzj
qxg’ohijynjrjhnokh_Nyhjpohosèphbjgonyhjohguïa_,”hpejhpunqhubunghznoe
oejhputjhptnyjkh“Tjghgjjqhxff muonxg,hugqhUyjvjchgjjqphuhfnsfyj,hpxhN
ruy jhuyyhoejpjhmjxmyjkhZjheurjhoxheurjhoejhex pjhynrjychugqhbuc,hpx
oeuohUyjvjchtuchgxohyxgbhaxshugchgxrjyockhOejghcx ’yyhpjjhoejhpojzusq—u
Bjstug,huhrjschbxxqhajyyxz,hugqhejh gqjspougqphenphzxslkhUyjvjcheuphu
rjschenbehxmngnxghxahentkhOejghoejhqxfoxs,huhcx gbhtug,hgxohw nojhu
Gnenynpohmjseump,hi ohcx hlgxz,hjuophznoehenphlgnajhkkkhi ohuhrjschbxxq
qxfoxskhOejghoejhusfenojfokkkkh_ gjhmjonojhfx s!_”


Feumojsh20

“Ejsj’phQxyychaxshcx ,hmsngfjpp,hcx hzjsjhpxhugvnx phoxhpjjhejs,”hpunq
Uggu,hfxtngbhx ohznoehQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhxgoxhoejhpoxgjhojssufjhzejsj
MsngfjpphRusrusuhzuphpnoongbhnghoejhpeuqjhuohughjtisxnqjschasutj,
zxslngbhuohuhfxrjshaxshFx gohUyjvjchLnsnyyxrnofe’phjupchfeunskh“Pej
pucphpejhqxjpg’ohzugohugcoengbhijaxsjhqnggjs,hi ohmyjupjhxsqjshpxtj
y gfehaxshejs,hugqhN’yyhbxhugqhyxxlhaxshUyjvjchugqhisngbhoejthuyyhngk”

MsngfjpphRusrusuhburjhQxyychuhfxsqnuyhugqhsuoejshmuosxgndngbhsjfjmonxg,
ugqhijbughuohxgfjhjvmyungngbhoxhejshoeuohpejhzuphynrngbhznoehUggu
ijfu pjhpejheuqhuyzucphfusjqhtxsjhaxshejshoeughejshpnpojshLuojsngu
Muryxrgu,hoejhu gohoeuoheuqhisx beohUgguh m,hugqhoeuohgxz,hzejg
jrjscxgjheuqhuiugqxgjqhUggu,hpejhoex beohnohejshq ochoxhejymhejshng
oenphtxpohqnaanf yohmjsnxqhxahosugpnonxgk

“Ejshe piugqhznyyhbnrjhejshuhqnrxsfj,hugqhoejghNhpeuyyhbxhiuflhoxhtc
pxyno qj;hi ohgxzhNhfughijhxah pj,hugqhNhuthqxngbhtchq oc,hexzjrjs
qnaanf yohnohtuchijhaxshtj—gxohynljhpxtjhxoejshmjxmyjkhUgqhexzhpzjjohno
nphxahcx ,hexzhsnbeohxahcx hoxheurjhfxtj!hOejchynrjhynljhoejhijpohxa
tussnjqhfx myjp;hno’phaxshBxqhoxh. qbjhoejt,hgxohaxsh pkhUgqhqnqg’o
Insc dxrplchugqhTuqutjhUrjgnjruhkkkhugqhPuthGnlugqsxr,hugqhRuppnynjr
ugqhTuqutjhTutxgxru,hugqhYnduhGjmo gxrukkkkhQnqhgxhxgjhpuchugcoengb
uix ohoejt?hUgqhnoheuphjgqjqhichoejnshijngbhsjfjnrjqhichjrjscxgjkhUgq
oejg,h_f’jpoh ghngoésnj shpnh.xyn,hpnhfxttjhnyhau okhOx o-à-aunohà
y’ugbyunpjkhXghpjhsé gnohyjhtuonghu hisjulaupo,hjohm nphxghpjhpémusjk_
JrjscxgjhqxjphuphejhmyjupjphonyyhqnggjshontjkhQnggjshuohpjrjghx’fyxflk
Ponruhqnqhrjschsnbeoychoxhpjgqhcx khEjhgjjqphoejnshp mmxsokhCx hlgxz
oeuohoesx behenphtxoejshugqhisxoejshejhfughqxhugcoengbkhUgqhoejghoejc
qxhpxht fehbxxqkhEjhqnqg’ohojyyhcx huix ohenphexpmnouy?h_Fjhpjsu
uqtnsuiyj_—jrjscoengbhasxthMusnpk”

Oejnshfxgrjspuonxghzuphngojss mojqhichUggu,hzexheuqhax gqhoejhtjghxa
oejhmusochnghoejhinyynusqhsxxt,hugqhsjo sgjqhznoehoejthoxhoejhojssufjk
Oejsjhzuphponyyhuhyxgbhontjhijaxsjhoejhqnggjs-ex s,hnohzuphjvw npnoj
zjuoejs,hugqhpxhpjrjsuyhqnaajsjgohtjoexqphxahpmjgqngbhoejhgjvohozx
ex sphzjsjhmsxmxpjqkhOejsjhzjsjhrjschtugchtjoexqphxahmuppngbhoejhontj
uohRxdqrndejgplxj,hugqhoejpjhzjsjhuyyh gynljhoexpjhngh pjhuo
Mxlsxrplxjk

“_ gjhmusonjhqjhyuzg-ojggnp,_”hRjpyxrplchmsxmxpjq,hznoehenpheugqpxtj
ptnyjkh“Zj’yyhijhmusogjsphubung,hUgguhUsluqcjrguk”

“Gx,hno’phoxxhexo;hijoojshposxyyhuix ohoejhbusqjghugqheurjhuhsxzhnghoej
ixuo,hpexzhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoejhsnrjshiuglpk”hRsxgplchmsxmxpjqk

“Nhubsjjhoxhugcoengb,”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“NhntubngjhoeuohzeuohQxyychzx yqhynljhijpohzx yqhijhuhposxyy—zx yqg’o
cx ?hUgqhoejghoejhixuo,hmjseump,”hpunqhUgguk

PxhnohzuphqjfnqjqkhRjpyxrplchugqhO peljrnofehzjgohxaahoxhoejhiuoengb
myufj,hmsxtnpngbhoxhbjohoejhixuohsjuqchugqhoxhzunohoejsjhaxshoejtk

Oejchzuyljqhuyxgbhoejhmuoehnghozxhfx myjp,hUgguhznoehPrnudeplc,hugq
QxyychznoehRsxgplckhQxyychzuphuhynooyjhjtiussuppjqhugqhugvnx phnghoej
gjzhp ssx gqngbphnghzenfehpejhax gqhejspjyakhUiposufoyc,hoejxsjonfuyyc,
pejhqnqhgxohtjsjych. ponac,hpejhmxpnonrjychummsxrjqhxahUggu’phfxgq fok
Uphnphngqjjqhgxoh gasjw jgohznoehzxtjghxah gntmjufeuiyjhrnso j,hzjusc
xahoejhtxgxoxgchxahsjpmjfouiyjhjvnpojgfj,huohuhqnpougfjhpejhgxohxgyc
jvf pjqhnyynfnohyxrj,hpejhmxpnonrjychjgrnjqhnokhIjpnqjp,hpejhyxrjqhUggu
znoehuyyhejshejusokhI ohpjjngbhUgguhnghufo uyhynajhutxgbhoejpj
posugbjsp,hznoehoenphaupenxguiyjhoxgjhoeuohzuphpxhgjzhoxhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgu,hpejhajyohnyyhuohjupjkhZeuohpejhqnpynljqhmusonf yusychzup
pjjngbhMsngfjpphRusrusuhsjuqchoxhxrjsyxxlhjrjscoengbhaxshoejhpuljhxa
oejhfxtaxsophpejhjg.xcjqk

Uphuhbjgjsuyhmsngfnmyj,huiposufoyc,hQxyychummsxrjqhxahUggu’phufonxg;
i ohoxhpjjhoejhtughaxshzexpjhpuljhejshufonxgheuqhijjghouljghzup
qnpubsjjuiyjhoxhejskhTxsjxrjs,hpejheuqhgjrjshynljqhRsxgplckhPejhoex beo
enthrjschmsx q,hugqhpuzhgxoengbhnghenthxahzenfehejhfx yqhijhmsx q
jvfjmohenphzjuyoekhI ohubungpohejshxzghznyy,hejsjhnghenphxzghex pj,hej
xrjsuzjqhejshtxsjhoeughjrjs,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohijhuohjupjhznoehentkhPej
ajyohznoehenthoejhputjhajjyngbhpejheuqheuqhznoehoejhtunqhuix ohejs
qsjppngbh.ufljokh. pohuphznoehoejhtunqhpejheuqhajyohgxohjvufoyc
upeutjq,hi ohjtiussuppjqhuohejshqusgp,hpxhpejhajyohznoehenthgxohjvufoyc
upeutjq,hi ohjtiussuppjqhuohejspjyak

Qxyychzuphnyyhuohjupj,hugqhosnjqhoxhangqhuhp i.jfohxahfxgrjspuonxgk
Jrjghoex behpejhp mmxpjqhoeuo,hoesx behenphmsnqj,hmsunpjhxahenphex pj
ugqhbusqjghzx yqhijhp sjhoxhijhqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhent,hpejhqnqhuyyhoej
putjhojyyhenthexzht fehpejhynljqhenphex pjk

“Cjp,hno’phuhrjschangjhi nyqngb,hugqhnghoejhbxxqhxyq-aupenxgjqhpocyj,”
ejhpunqk

“Nhynljhpxht fehoejhfx sohnghasxgohxahoejhpojmpkhZuphoeuohuyzucphpx?”

“Xe,hgx!”hejhpunq,hugqhenphaufjhijutjqhznoehmyjup sjkh“Nahcx hfx yq
xgycheurjhpjjghoeuohfx sohyupohpmsngb!”

Ugqhejhijbug,huohanspohsuoejshqnaanqjgoyc,hi ohtxsjhugqhtxsjhfussnjq
uzuchichoejhp i.jfohuphejhzjgohxg,hoxhqsuzhejshuoojgonxghoxhoejhrusnx p
qjounyphxahoejhqjfxsuonxghxahenphex pjhugqhbusqjgkhNohzuphjrnqjgohoeuo,
eurngbhqjrxojqhuhbsjuohqjuyhxahosx iyjhoxhntmsxrjhugqhiju onachenp
extj,hRsxgplchajyohuhgjjqhoxhpexzhxaahoejhntmsxrjtjgophoxhuhgjzhmjspxg,
ugqhzuphbjg ngjychqjynbeojqhuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phmsunpjk

“Nahcx hzx yqhfusjhoxhyxxlhuohoejhexpmnouy,hugqhusjhgxohonsjq,hngqjjq,
no’phgxohauskhPeuyyhzjhbx?”hejhpunq,hbyugfngbhngoxhejshaufjhoxhfxgrngfj
entpjyahoeuohpejhzuphgxohixsjqkh“Usjhcx hfxtngb,hUggu?”hejho sgjqhox
ejsk

“Zjhznyyhfxtj,hzxg’ohzj?”hpejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhPrnudeplckh“_Tunphnyhgj
au ohmuphyunppjshyjhmu rsjhRjpyxrplchjohO peljrnofehpjhtxsaxgqsjhyà
qugphyjhiuoju k_hZjht pohpjgqhugqhojyyhoejtk”

“Cjp,hoenphnphuhtxg tjgohejhnphpjoongbh mhejsj,”hpunqhUggu,ho sgngbhox
Qxyychznoehoeuohpychptnyjhxahfxtmsjejgpnxghznoehzenfehpejheuq
msjrnx pychouyljqhuix ohoejhexpmnouyk

“Xe,hno’phuhzxslhxahsjuyhntmxsougfj!”hpunqhPrnudeplckhI ohoxhpexzhej
zuphgxohoscngbhoxhngbsuonuojhentpjyahznoehRsxgplc,hejhmsxtmoychuqqjq
pxtjhpynbeoychfsnonfuyhsjtuslpk

“Nhzxgqjs,hoex be,hfx go,”hejhpunq,h“oeuohzenyjhcx hqxhpxht fehaxshoej
ejuyoehxahoejhmjupugop,hcx houljhpxhynooyjhngojsjpohnghoejhpfexxypk”

“_F’jpohqjrjg hojyyjtjgohfxtt ghyjphéfxyjp,_”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Cx 
 gqjspougqhno’phgxohxghoeuohuffx go,hi ohnoh. poheummjgphpx,htc
ngojsjpoheuphijjghqnrjsojqhjypjzejsjkhOenphzuchoejghoxhoejhexpmnouy,”
ejhpunqhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hmxngongbhoxhuho sgngbhx ohxahoejhurjg jk

Oejhyuqnjphm oh mhoejnshmusupxyphugqho sgjqhngoxhoejhpnqjhmuoekhUaojs
bxngbhqxzghpjrjsuyho sgngbp,hugqhbxngbhoesx behuhynooyjhbuoj,hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhpuzhpougqngbhxghsnpngbhbsx gqhijaxsjhejshuhyusbj
msjojgonx p-yxxlngbhsjqhi nyqngb,huytxpohangnpejqkhOejhnsxghsxxa,hzenfe
zuphgxohcjohmungojq,hpexgjhznoehquddyngbhisnbeogjpphnghoejhp gpengjk
Ijpnqjhoejhangnpejqhi nyqngbhugxoejsheuqhijjghijb g,hp ssx gqjqhic
pfuaaxyqngbkhZxsltjghnghumsxgp,hpougqngbhxghpfuaaxyqp,hzjsjhyucngb
isnflp,hmx sngbhtxsoushx ohxahruop,hugqhptxxoengbhnohznoehosxzjypk

“Exzhw nflychzxslhbjophqxgjhznoehcx !”hpunqhPrnudeplckh“ZejghNhzuphejsj
yupohontjhoejhsxxahzuphgxohxgk”

“Ichoejhu o tghnohznyyhuyyhijhsjuqckhNgpnqjhuytxpohjrjscoengbhnphqxgj,”
punqhUgguk

“Ugqhzeuo’phoenphgjzhi nyqngb?”

“Oeuo’phoejhex pjhaxshoejhqxfoxshugqhoejhqnpmjgpusc,”hugpzjsjqhRsxgplc,
pjjngbhoejhusfenojfohnghuhpexsoh.ufljohfxtngbhoxzusqphent;hugqhjvf pngb
entpjyahoxhoejhyuqnjp,hejhzjgohoxhtjjohentk

Bxngbhsx gqhuhexyjhzejsjhoejhzxsltjghzjsjhpyulngbhyntj,hejhpoxxqhponyy
znoehoejhusfenojfohugqhijbughouylngbhsuoejshzustyck

“Oejhasxgohnphponyyhoxxhyxz,”hejhpunqhoxhUggu,hzexheuqhupljqhzeuohzup
oejhtuoojsk

“Nhpunqhoejhax gquonxghx beohoxhijhsunpjq,”hpunqhUgguk

“Cjp,hxahfx spjhnohzx yqheurjhijjght fehijoojs,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hpunq
oejhusfenojfo,h“i ohgxzhno’phoxxhyuojk”

“Cjp,hNhouljhuhbsjuohngojsjpohnghno,”hUgguhugpzjsjqhPrnudeplc,hzexhzup
jvmsjppngbhenphp smsnpjhuohejshlgxzyjqbjhxahusfenojfo sjkh“Oenphgjz
i nyqngbhx beohoxheurjhijjghngheustxgchznoehoejhexpmnouykhNohzuphug
uaojsoex beo,hugqhzuphijb ghznoex ohuhmyugk”

Rsxgplc,heurngbhangnpejqhenphouylhznoehoejhusfenojfo,h.xngjqhoej
yuqnjp,hugqhyjqhoejthngpnqjhoejhexpmnouyk

Uyoex behoejchzjsjhponyyhuohzxslhxghoejhfxsgnfjphx opnqjhugqhzjsj
mungongbhxghoejhbsx gqhayxxs,h mpounsphuytxpohuyyhoejhsxxtphzjsj
angnpejqkhBxngbh mhoejhisxuqhfupo-nsxghpounsfupjhoxhoejhyugqngb,hoejc
zuyljqhngoxhoejhanspohyusbjhsxxtkhOejhzuyyphzjsjhpo ffxjqhoxhyxxlhynlj
tusiyj,hoejhe bjhmyuoj-byupphzngqxzphzjsjhuysjuqchng,hxgychoejhmusw jo
ayxxshzuphgxohcjohangnpejq,hugqhoejhfusmjgojsp,hzexhzjsjhmyugngbhu
iyxflhxahno,hyjaohoejnshzxsl,houlngbhxaahoejhiugqphoeuohaupojgjqhoejns
euns,hoxhbsjjohoejhbjgosck

“Oenphnphoejhsjfjmonxghsxxt,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Ejsjhoejsjhznyyhijhuhqjpl,
ouiyjp,hugqhijgfejp,hugqhgxoengbhtxsjk”

“Oenphzuc;hyjoh phbxhnghejsjkhQxg’ohbxhgjushoejhzngqxz,”hpunqhUggu,
oscngbhoejhmungohoxhpjjhnahnohzjsjhqsckh“Uyjvjc,hoejhmungo’phqsc
uysjuqc,”hpejhuqqjqk

AsxthoejhsjfjmonxghsxxthoejchzjgohngoxhoejhfxssnqxskhEjsjhRsxgplc
pexzjqhoejthoejhtjfeugnpthaxshrjgonyuonxghxghuhgxrjyhpcpojtkhOejghej
pexzjqhoejthtusiyjhiuoep,hugqhijqphznoehjvosuxsqnguschpmsngbpkhOejghej
pexzjqhoejthoejhzusqphxgjhuaojshugxoejs,hoejhpoxsjsxxt,hoejhyngjghsxxt,
oejghoejhejuongbhpoxrjhxahuhgjzhmuoojsg,hoejghoejhosxyyjcp,hzenfehzx yq
tuljhgxhgxnpjhuphoejchfussnjqhjrjscoengbhgjjqjqhuyxgbhoejhfxssnqxsp,
ugqhtugchxoejshoengbpkhPrnudeplc,huphuhfxggxnppj shnghoejhyuojpo
tjfeugnfuyhntmsxrjtjgop,hummsjfnuojqhjrjscoengbha yyckhQxyychpntmyc
zxgqjsjqhuohuyyhpejheuqhgxohpjjghijaxsj,hugq,hugvnx phoxh gqjspougqhno
uyy,htuqjhtng ojhngw nsnjphuix ohjrjscoengb,hzenfehburjhRsxgplchbsjuo
puonpaufonxgk

“Cjp,hNhntubngjhoeuohoenphznyyhijhoejhpxynouschjvutmyjhxahuhmsxmjsyc
anoojqhexpmnouyhnghS ppnu,”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“Ugqhzxg’ohcx heurjhuhycngb-nghzusq?”hupljqhQxyyckh“Oeuo’phpxht fe
gjjqjqhnghoejhfx gosckhNheurjhxaojgkkkk”

Nghpmnojhxahenph p uyhfx sojpc,hRsxgplchngojss mojqhejsk

“Oenphnphgxohuhycngb-nghextj,hi ohuhexpmnouyhaxshoejhpnfl,hugqhnp
ngojgqjqhaxshuyyhqnpjupjp,hjvfjmohngajfonx phfxtmyungop,”hejhpunqkh“Ue!
yxxlhuohoenp,”hugqhejhsxyyjqh mhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhughngruynqhfeuns
oeuoheuqh. pohijjghxsqjsjqhaxshoejhfxgruyjpfjgopkh“Yxxlk”hEjhpuohqxzg
nghoejhfeunshugqhijbughtxrngbhnokh“Oejhmuonjgohfug’ohzuyl—ponyyhoxx
zjul,hmjseump,hxshpxtjoengbhzsxgbhznoehenphyjbp,hi ohejht poheurjhuns,
ugqhejhtxrjp,hsxyyphentpjyahuyxgbkkkk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphngojsjpojqhichjrjscoengbkhPejhynljqhjrjscoengb
rjscht fe,hi ohtxpohxahuyyhpejhynljqhRsxgplchentpjyahznoehenphguo suy,
pntmyj-ejusojqhjubjsgjppkh“Cjp,hej’phuhrjschgnfj,hbxxqhtug,”hpej
oex beohpjrjsuyhontjp,hgxohejusngbhzeuohejhpunq,hi ohyxxlngbhuohenthugq
mjgjosuongbhngoxhenphjvmsjppnxg,hzenyjhpejhtjgouyychm ohejspjyahng
Uggu’phmyufjkhPejhynljqhenthpxht feh. pohgxzhznoehenphjubjshngojsjpo
oeuohpejhpuzhexzhUgguhfx yqhijhnghyxrjhznoehentk


Feumojsh21

“Gx,hNhoenglhoejhmsngfjpphnphonsjq,hugqhexspjphqxg’ohngojsjpohejs,”
RsxgplchpunqhoxhUggu,hzexhzugojqhoxhbxhxghoxhoejhpouiyjp,hzejsj
Prnudeplchznpejqhoxhpjjhoejhgjzhpouyynxgkh“Cx hbxhxg,hzenyjhNhjpfxso
oejhmsngfjpphextj,hugqhzj’yyheurjhuhynooyjhouyl,”hejhpunq,h“nahcx 
zx yqhynljhoeuo?”hejhuqqjq,ho sgngbhoxhejsk

“Nhlgxzhgxoengbhuix ohexspjp,hugqhNhpeuyyhijhqjynbeojq,”hugpzjsjqhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgu,hsuoejshupoxgnpejqk

PejhpuzhichRsxgplc’phaufjhoeuohejhzugojqhpxtjoengbhasxthejskhPejhzup
gxohtnpouljgkhUphpxxghuphoejcheuqhmuppjqhoesx behoejhynooyjhbuojhiufl
ngoxhoejhbusqjg,hejhyxxljqhnghoejhqnsjfonxghUgguheuqhouljg,hugqheurngb
tuqjhp sjhoeuohpejhfx yqhgjnoejshejushgxshpjjhoejt,hejhijbug:

“Cx hb jpphoeuohNheurjhpxtjoengbhNhzugohoxhpuchoxhcx ,”hejhpunq,
yxxlngbhuohejshznoehyu bengbhjcjpkh“Nhuthgxohzsxgbhnghijynjrngbhcx hox
ijhuhasnjgqhxahUggu’pk”hEjhoxxlhxaahenpheuo,hugqhoulngbhx ohenp
eugqljsfenja,hznmjqhenphejuq,hzenfehzuphbsxzngbhiuyqk

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhtuqjhgxhugpzjs,hugqhtjsjychpousjqhuohenthznoe
qnptuckhZejghpejhzuphyjaohuyxgjhznoehent,hpejhp qqjgychajyohuasunq;henp
yu bengbhjcjphugqhpojsghjvmsjppnxghpfusjqhejsk

Oejhtxpohqnrjspjhp mmxpnonxgphuphoxhzeuohejhzuphuix ohoxhpmjulhxahox
ejshayupejqhngoxhejshisungkh“Ejhnphbxngbhoxhijbhtjhoxhfxtjhoxhpouchznoe
oejthznoehoejhfenyqsjg,hugqhNhpeuyyheurjhoxhsja pj;hxshoxhfsjuojhuhpjo
oeuohznyyhsjfjnrjhUgguhnghTxpfxzkkkkhXshnpg’ohnohRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchugq
enphsjyuonxgphznoehUggu?hXshmjseumphuix ohLnooc,hoeuohejhajjyphejhzup
oxhiyutj?”hUyyhejshfxg.jfo sjphzjsjh gmyjupugo,hi ohpejhqnqhgxohb jpp
zeuohejhsjuyychzugojqhoxhouylhuix ohoxhejsk

“Cx heurjhpxht fehngay jgfjhznoehUggu,hpejhnphpxhaxgqhxahcx ,”hejhpunq;
“qxhejymhtjk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhyxxljqhznoehontnqhngw nschngoxhenphjgjsbjonfhaufj,
zenfeh gqjshoejhyntj-osjjphzuphfxgong uyychijngbhynbeojqh mhnghmuofejp
ichoejhp gpengj,hugqhoejghmuppngbhngoxhfxtmyjojhpeuqxzhubungkhPej
zunojqhaxshenthoxhpuchtxsj,hi ohejhzuyljqhnghpnyjgfjhijpnqjhejs,
pfsuofengbhznoehenphfugjhnghoejhbsurjyk

“Cx heurjhfxtjhoxhpjjh p,hcx ,hoejhxgychzxtughxahUggu’phaxstjs
asnjgqp—Nhqxg’ohfx gohMsngfjpphRusrusu—i ohNhlgxzhoeuohcx heurjhqxgj
oenphgxohijfu pjhcx hsjbusqhx shmxpnonxghuphgxstuy,hi ohijfu pj,
 gqjspougqngbhuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahoejhmxpnonxg,hcx hponyyhyxrjhejs
ugqhzugohoxhijhuhejymhoxhejskhEurjhNh gqjspoxxqhcx hsnbeoyc?”hejhupljq,
yxxlngbhsx gqhuohejsk

“Xe,hcjp,”hugpzjsjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hm oongbhqxzghejshp gpeuqj,
“i okkkk”

“Gx,”hejhisxljhng,hugqh gfxgpfnx pyc,hxiynrnx phxahoejhuzlzusqhmxpnonxg
ngoxhzenfehejhzuphm oongbhenphfxtmugnxg,hejhpoxmmjqhuis moyc,hpxhoeuo
pejheuqhoxhpoxmhpexsohoxxkh“Gxhxgjhajjyphtxsjhqjjmychugqhngojgpjychoeug
Nhqxhuyyhoejhqnaanf yochxahUggu’phmxpnonxg;hugqhoeuohcx htuchzjyy
 gqjspougq,hnahcx hqxhtjhoejhexgxshxahp mmxpngbhNheurjhugchejusokhNhut
oxhiyutjhaxshoeuohmxpnonxg,hugqhoeuohnphzechNhajjyhnok”

“Nh gqjspougq,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hngrxy gousnychuqtnsngbhoej
pngfjsnochugqhanstgjpphznoehzenfehejhpunqhoenpkh“I oh. pohijfu pjhcx 
ajjyhcx spjyahsjpmxgpniyj,hcx hjvubbjsuojhno,hNhuthuasunq,”hpejhpunqk
“Ejshmxpnonxghnghoejhzxsyqhnphqnaanf yo,hNhfughzjyyh gqjspougqk”

“Nghoejhzxsyqhnohnphejyy!”hejhisx beohx ohw nflyc,hasxzgngbhquslyck
“Cx hfug’ohntubngjhtxsuyhp aajsngbphbsjuojshoeughzeuohpejhzjgohoesx be
nghMjojspi sbhnghoeuohaxsognbeohkkkhugqhNhijbhcx hoxhijynjrjhnok”

“Cjp,hi ohejsj,hpxhyxgbhuphgjnoejshUgguhkkkhgxshcx htnpphpxfnjockkkk”

“Pxfnjoc!”hejhpunqhfxgojtmo x pyc,h“exzhfx yqhNhtnpphpxfnjoc?”

“Pxhaus—ugqhnohtuchijhpxhuyzucp—cx husjheummchugqhuohmjufjkhNhpjjhng
Ugguhoeuohpejhnpheummc,hmjsajfoycheummc,hpejheupheuqhontjhoxhojyyhtjhpx
t fehuysjuqc,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hptnyngb;hugqhngrxy gousnyc,hup
pejhpunqhoenp,huohoejhputjhtxtjgohuhqx iohjgojsjqhejshtngqhzejoejshUggu
sjuyychzjsjheummck

I ohRsxgplc,hnohummjusjq,heuqhgxhqx iophxghoeuohpfxsjk

“Cjp,hcjp,”hejhpunq,h“Nhlgxzhoeuohpejheuphsjrnrjqhuaojshuyyhejs
p aajsngbp;hpejhnpheummckhPejhnpheummchnghoejhmsjpjgokhI ohN?kkkhNhut
uasunqhxahzeuohnphijaxsjh phkkkhNhijbhcx shmusqxg,hcx hzx yqhynljhox
zuylhxg?”

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohtngqk”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hyjoh phpnohejsjk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpuohqxzghxghuhbusqjghpjuohnghuhfxsgjshxahoejhurjg jk
Ejhpoxxqh mhaufngbhejsk

“Nhpjjhoeuohpejhnpheummc,”hejhsjmjuojq,hugqhoejhqx iohzejoejshpejhzjsj
eummchpuglhtxsjhqjjmychngoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phtngqkh“I ohfughno
yupo?hZejoejshzjheurjhufojqhsnbeoychxshzsxgbychnphugxoejshw jponxg,hi o
oejhqnjhnphfupo,”hejhpunq,hmuppngbhasxthS ppnughoxhAsjgfe,h“ugqhzjhusj
ix gqhoxbjoejshaxshynajkhZjhusjh gnojqhichuyyhoejhonjphxahyxrjhoeuohzj
exyqhtxpohpufsjqkhZjheurjhuhfenyq,hzjhtucheurjhxoejshfenyqsjgkhI ohoej
yuzhugqhuyyhoejhfxgqnonxgphxahx shmxpnonxghusjhp fehoeuohoex pugqphxa
fxtmynfuonxgphusnpjhzenfehpejhqxjphgxohpjjhugqhqxjphgxohzugohoxhpjjk
Ugqhoeuohxgjhfughzjyyh gqjspougqkhI ohNhfug’ohejymhpjjngbhoejtkhTc
qu beojshnphichyuzhgxohtchqu beojs,hi ohLusjgng’pkhNhfuggxohijushoenp
auypnoc!”hejhpunq,hznoehuhrnbxsx phbjpo sjhxahsja puy,hugqhejhyxxljq
znoehbyxxtchngw nschoxzusqphQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguk

Pejhtuqjhgxhugpzjs,hi ohpntmychbudjqhuohentkhEjhzjgohxg:

“Xgjhquchuhpxghtuchijhixsg,htchpxg,hugqhejhznyyhijhyjbuyychuhLusjgng;
ejhznyyhgxohijhoejhejnshxahtchgutjhgxshxahtchmsxmjsoc,hugqhexzjrjs
eummchzjhtuchijhnghx shextjhynajhugqhexzjrjshtugchfenyqsjghzjhtucheurj,
oejsjhznyyhijhgxhsjuyhonjhijozjjgh pkhOejchznyyhijhLusjgngpkhCx hfug
 gqjspougqhoejhinoojsgjpphugqhexssxshxahoenphmxpnonxg!hNheurjhosnjqhox
pmjulhxahoenphoxhUggukhNohnssnouojphejskhPejhqxjphgxoh gqjspougq,hugq
oxhejshNhfuggxohpmjulhmyungychxahuyyhoenpkhGxzhyxxlhuohugxoejshpnqjkhN
utheummc,heummchnghejshyxrj,hi ohNht poheurjhxff muonxgkhNheurjhax gq
xff muonxg,hugqhuthmsx qhxahzeuohNhuthqxngbhugqhfxgpnqjshnohgxiyjshoeug
oejhm sp nophxahtchaxstjshfxtmugnxgphuohfx sohugqhnghoejhustckhUgqhtxpo
fjsoungychNhzx yqhgxohfeugbjhoejhzxslhNhuthqxngbhaxshoejnspkhNhut
zxslngbhejsj,hpjooyjqhnghtchxzghmyufj,hugqhNhutheummchugqhfxgojgojq,
ugqhzjhgjjqhgxoengbhtxsjhoxhtuljh pheummckhNhyxrjhtchzxslhejsjkh_Fj
g’jpohmuph ghmnp-uyyjs,_hxghoejhfxgosusckkkk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhgxonfjqhoeuohuohoenphmxngohnghenphjvmyuguonxghej
bsjzhfxga pjq,hugqhpejhqnqhgxohw nojh gqjspougqhoenphqnbsjppnxg,hi o
pejhajyohoeuoheurngbhxgfjhijb ghoxhpmjulhxahtuoojsphgjushenphejuso,hxa
zenfehejhfx yqhgxohpmjulhoxhUggu,hejhzuphgxzhtulngbhuhfyjughisjupohxa
jrjscoengb,hugqhoeuohoejhw jponxghxahenphm sp nophnghoejhfx goschajyy
ngoxhoejhputjhfuojbxschxahtuoojsphgjushenphejuso,huphoejhw jponxghxa
enphsjyuonxgphznoehUgguk

“Zjyy,hNhznyyhbxhxg,”hejhpunq,hfxyyjfongbhentpjyakh“Oejhbsjuohoengbhnp
oeuohuphNhzxslhNhzugohoxheurjhuhfxgrnfonxghoeuohzeuohNhuthqxngbhznyy
gxohqnjhznoehtj,hoeuohNhpeuyyheurjhejnsphoxhfxtjhuaojshtj,—ugqhoenphN
eurjhgxokhFxgfjnrjhoejhmxpnonxghxahuhtughzexhlgxzphoeuohenphfenyqsjg,
oejhfenyqsjghxahoejhzxtughejhyxrjp,hznyyhgxohijhenp,hi ohznyyhijyxgbhox
pxtjxgjhzexheuojphoejthugqhfusjphgxoengbhuix ohoejt!hNohnphuza y!”

Ejhmu pjq,hjrnqjgoycht fehtxrjqk

“Cjp,hngqjjq,hNhpjjhoeuokhI ohzeuohfughUgguhqx?”hw jsnjqhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguk

“Cjp,hoeuohisngbphtjhoxhoejhxi.jfohxahtchfxgrjspuonxg,”hejhpunq,
fuytngbhentpjyahznoehughjaaxsokh“Ugguhfug,hnohqjmjgqphxghejskkkkhJrjg
oxhmjononxghoejhOpushaxshyjbnontnduonxg,huhqnrxsfjhnphjppjgonuykhUgq
oeuohqjmjgqphxghUggukhEjshe piugqhubsjjqhoxhuhqnrxsfj—uohoeuohontjhcx s
e piugqheuqhussugbjqhnohfxtmyjojyckhUgqhgxz,hNhlgxz,hejhzx yqhgxo
sja pjhnokhNohnphxgychuhtuoojshxahzsnongbhoxhentkhEjhpunqhmyungychuo
oeuohontjhoeuohnahpejhjvmsjppjqhoejhqjpnsj,hejhzx yqhgxohsja pjkhXa
fx spj,”hejhpunqhbyxxtnyc,h“nohnphxgjhxahoexpjhMeusnpunfuyhfs jyonjphxa
zenfehxgychp fehejusoyjpphtjghusjhfumuiyjkhEjhlgxzphzeuohubxgchugc
sjfxyyjfonxghxahentht pohbnrjhejs,hugqhlgxzngbhejs,hejht poheurjhu
yjoojshasxthejskhNhfugh gqjspougqhoeuohnohnphubxgchoxhejskhI ohoej
tuoojshnphxahp fehntmxsougfj,hoeuohxgjht poh_muppjshmus-qjpp phox ojp
fjphangjppjphqjhpjgontjgokhNyhchruhq hixgej shjohqjhy’jvnpojgfjhq’Uggj
johqjhpjphjgaugopk_hNhzxg’ohpmjulhxahtcpjya,hoex behno’pheusqhaxshtj,
rjscheusq,”hejhpunq,hznoehughjvmsjppnxghuphoex behejhzjsjhoesjuojgngb
pxtjxgjhaxshnophijngbheusqhaxshentkh“Ugqhpxhnohnp,hmsngfjpp,hoeuohNhut
peutjyjppychfy ofengbhuohcx huphughugfexshxahpuyruonxgkhEjymhtjhox
mjsp uqjhejshoxhzsnojhoxhenthugqhuplhaxshuhqnrxsfjk”

“Cjp,hxahfx spj,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpunqhqsjutnyc,huphpejhrnrnqyc
sjfuyyjqhejshyupohngojsrnjzhznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Cjp,hxa
fx spj,”hpejhsjmjuojqhznoehqjfnpnxg,hoenglngbhxahUgguk

“ pjhcx shngay jgfjhznoehejs,htuljhejshzsnojkhNhqxg’ohynlj—N’thuytxpo
 guiyjhoxhpmjulhuix ohoenphoxhejsk”

“Rjschzjyy,hNhznyyhouylhoxhejskhI ohexzhnphnohpejhqxjphgxohoenglhxahno
ejspjya?”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hugqhaxshpxtjhsjupxghpejhp qqjgychuo
oeuohmxngohsjfuyyjqhUggu’phposugbjhgjzheuinohxaheuya-fyxpngbhejshjcjpk
UgqhpejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohUgguhqsxxmjqhejshjcjynqph. pohzejghoejhqjjmjs
w jponxgphxahynajhzjsjhox fejqh mxgkh“. pohuphoex behpejheuya-pe ohejs
jcjphoxhejshxzghynaj,hpxhuphgxohoxhpjjhjrjscoengb,”hoex beohQxyyck
“Cjp,hngqjjq,haxshtchxzghpuljhugqhaxshejsphNhznyyhouylhoxhejs,”hQxyyc
punqhnghsjmychoxhenphyxxlhxahbsuono qjk

Oejchbxoh mhugqhzuyljqhoxhoejhex pjk


Feumojsh22

ZejghUgguhax gqhQxyychuohextjhijaxsjhejs,hpejhyxxljqhngojgoychnghejs
jcjp,huphoex behw jponxgngbhejshuix ohoejhouylhpejheuqheuqhznoe
Rsxgplc,hi ohpejhtuqjhgxhngw nschnghzxsqpk

“Nhijynjrjhno’phqnggjshontj,”hpejhpunqkh“Zj’rjhgxohpjjghjufehxoejshuo
uyyhcjokhNhuthsjflxgngbhxghoejhjrjgngbkhGxzhNhzugohoxhbxhugqhqsjppkhN
jvmjfohcx hqxhoxx;hzjhuyyhbxohpmyupejqhuohoejhi nyqngbpk”

Qxyychzjgohoxhejshsxxthugqhpejhajyohut pjqkhOxhfeugbjhejshqsjpphzup
ntmxppniyj,haxshpejheuqhuysjuqchm ohxghejshijpohqsjppkhI ohnghxsqjshox
pnbgnachnghpxtjhzuchejshmsjmusuonxghaxshqnggjs,hpejhupljqhoejhtunqhox
is pehejshqsjpp,hfeugbjqhejshf aaphugqhonj,hugqhm ohpxtjhyufjhxghejs
ejuqk

“OenphnphuyyhNhfughqx,”hpejhpunqhznoehuhptnyjhoxhUggu,hzexhfutjhnghox
ejshnghuhoensqhqsjpp,hubunghxahjvosjtjhpntmynfnock

“Cjp,hzjhusjhoxxhaxstuyhejsj,”hpejhpunq,huphnohzjsjhumxyxbndngbhaxshejs
tubgnanfjgfjkh“Uyjvjchnphqjynbeojqhuohcx shrnpno,huphejhsusjychnphuo
ugcoengbkhEjheuphfxtmyjojychyxpohenphejusohoxhcx ,”hpejhuqqjqkh“Cx ’sj
gxohonsjq?”

Oejsjhzuphgxhontjhaxshouylngbhuix ohugcoengbhijaxsjhqnggjskhBxngbhngox
oejhqsuzngb-sxxthoejchax gqhMsngfjpphRusrusuhuysjuqchoejsj,hugqhoej
bjgoyjtjghxahoejhmusochnghiyuflhasxfl-fxuopkhOejhusfenojfohzxsjhu
pzuyyxz-ounyhfxuokhRsxgplchmsjpjgojqhoejhqxfoxshugqhoejhpojzusqhoxhenp
b jpokhOejhusfenojfohejheuqhuysjuqchngosxq fjqhoxhejshuohoejhexpmnouyk

Uhpox ohi oyjs,hsjpmyjgqjgohznoehuhptxxoeychpeurjghsx gqhfenghugqhu
pousfejqhzenojhfsuruo,huggx gfjqhoeuohqnggjshzuphsjuqc,hugqhoejhyuqnjp
bxoh mkhRsxgplchupljqhPrnudeplchoxhouljhnghUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hugqhentpjya
xaajsjqhenphusthoxhQxyyckhRjpyxrplchzuphijaxsjhO peljrnofehnghxaajsngb
enphusthoxhMsngfjpphRusrusu,hpxhoeuohO peljrnofehznoehoejhpojzusqhugq
oejhqxfoxshzuyljqhnghuyxgjk

Oejhqnggjs,hoejhqngngb-sxxt,hoejhpjsrnfj,hoejhzunongbhuohouiyj,hoej
zngj,hugqhoejhaxxq,hzjsjhgxohpntmychnghljjmngbhznoehoejhbjgjsuyhoxgjhxa
txqjsghy v schoesx bex ohuyyhoejhex pj,hi ohpjjtjqhjrjghtxsjhp tmo x p
ugqhtxqjsgkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuofejqhoenphy v schzenfehzuphgxrjyhox
ejs,hugqhuphuhbxxqhex pjljjmjsh pjqhoxhtugubngbhuhex pjexyq—uyoex be
pejhgjrjshqsjutjqhxahuqumongbhugcoengbhpejhpuzhoxhejshxzghex pjexyq,hup
nohzuphuyyhnghuhpocyjhxahy v schaushuixrjhejshxzghtuggjshxahynrngb—pej
fx yqhgxohejymhpfs ongndngbhjrjschqjouny,hugqhzxgqjsngbhexzhugqhichzext
nohzuphuyyhqxgjkhRuppjgluhRjpyxrplc,hejshe piugq,hugqhjrjghPrnudeplc,
ugqhtugchxoejshmjxmyjhpejhlgjz,hzx yqhgjrjsheurjhfxgpnqjsjqhoenp
w jponxg,hugqhzx yqheurjhsjuqnychijynjrjqhzeuohjrjschzjyy-isjqhexpo
osnjphoxhtuljhenphb jpophajjy,hoeuohnp,hoeuohuyyhoeuohnphzjyy-xsqjsjq
nghenphex pjheuphfxpohent,hoejhexpo,hgxhosx iyjhzeuojrjs,hi ohfxtjphxa
nopjyakhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphzjyyhuzusjhoeuohjrjghmxssnqbjhaxshoej
fenyqsjg’phisjulaupohqxjphgxohfxtjhxahnopjya,hugqhoeuohoejsjaxsj,hzejsj
pxhfxtmynfuojqhugqhtubgnanfjgohuhpocyjhxahy v schzuphtungoungjq,
pxtjxgjht pohbnrjhjusgjpohuoojgonxghoxhnophxsbugnduonxgkhUgqhasxthoej
byugfjhznoehzenfehUyjvjchLnsnyyxrnofehpfuggjqhoejhouiyj,hasxthoejhzuc
ejhgxqqjqhoxhoejhi oyjs,hugqhxaajsjqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhejshfexnfj
ijozjjghfxyqhpx mhugqhexohpx m,hpejhpuzhoeuohnohzuphuyyhxsbugndjqhugq
tungoungjqhichoejhfusjhxahoejhtupojshxahoejhex pjhentpjyakhNohzup
jrnqjgohoeuohnohuyyhsjpojqhgxhtxsjh mxghUgguhoeugh mxghRjpyxrplckhPej,
Prnudeplc,hoejhmsngfjpp,hugqhRjpyxrplc,hzjsjhjw uyychb jpop,hznoehynbeo
ejusophjg.xcngbhzeuoheuqhijjghussugbjqhaxshoejtk

Ugguhzuphoejhexpojpphxgychnghfxgq fongbhoejhfxgrjspuonxgkhOej
fxgrjspuonxghzuphuhqnaanf yohxgjhaxshoejhyuqchxahoejhex pjhuohuhptuyy
ouiyjhznoehmjspxgphmsjpjgo,hynljhoejhpojzusqhugqhoejhusfenojfo,
ijyxgbngbhoxhuhfxtmyjojychqnaajsjgohzxsyq,hpos bbyngbhgxohoxhij
xrjsuzjqhichughjyjbugfjhoxhzenfehoejchzjsjh guff poxtjq,hugqh guiyjhox
p pounghuhyusbjhpeusjhnghoejhbjgjsuyhfxgrjspuonxgkhI ohoenphqnaanf yo
fxgrjspuonxghUgguhqnsjfojqhznoehejsh p uyhoufohugqhguo suygjpp,hugq
ngqjjqhpejhqnqhpxhznoehufo uyhjg.xctjgo,huphQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu
xipjsrjqkhOejhfxgrjspuonxghijbughuix ohoejhsxzhO peljrnofehugq
Rjpyxrplcheuqhouljghuyxgjhoxbjoejshnghoejhixuo,hugqhO peljrnofehijbug
qjpfsningbhoejhyupohixuohsufjphnghMjojspi sbhuohoejhCufeohFy ikhI o
Uggu,hpjndngbhoejhanspohmu pj,huohxgfjho sgjqhoxhoejhusfenojfohoxhqsuz
enthx ohxahenphpnyjgfjk

“GnlxyuchNrugnofehzuphpos fl,”hpejhpunq,htjugngbhPrnudeplc,h“uohoej
msxbsjpphoejhgjzhi nyqngbheuqhtuqjhpngfjhejhzuphejsjhyupo;hi ohNhut
oejsjhjrjschquc,hugqhjrjschquchNhzxgqjshuohoejhsuojhuohzenfehnohbsxzpk”

“No’phanspo-suojhzxslngbhznoehenphjvfjyyjgfc,”hpunqhoejhusfenojfohznoe
uhptnyjh(ejhzuphsjpmjfoa yhugqhfxtmxpjq,hoex behznoehuhpjgpjhxahenphxzg
qnbgnoc)kh“No’phuhrjschqnaajsjgohtuoojshoxheurjhoxhqxhznoehoejhqnposnfo
u oexsnonjpkhZejsjhxgjhzx yqheurjhoxhzsnojhx ohpejurjphxahmumjsp,hejsj
Nhfuyyh mxghoejhfx go,hugqhnghoesjjhzxsqphzjhpjooyjhoejhi pngjppk”

“OejhUtjsnfughzuchxahqxngbhi pngjpp,”hpunqhPrnudeplc,hznoehuhptnyjk

“Cjp,hoejsjhoejchi nyqhnghuhsuonxguyhaupenxgkkkk”

Oejhfxgrjspuonxghmuppjqhoxhoejhtnp pjhxahmxynonfuyhmxzjshnghoejh gnojq
Pouojp,hi ohUgguhw nflychisx beohnohsx gqhoxhugxoejshoxmnf,hpxhuphox
qsuzhoejhpojzusqhngoxhouylk

“Eurjhcx hjrjshpjjghuhsjumngbhtufengj?”hpejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgukh“Zjheuqh. pohsnqqjghxrjshoxhyxxlhuohxgjhzejghzjhtjokhNo’p
oejhanspohontjhNhjrjshpuzhxgjk”

“Exzhqxhoejchzxsl?”hupljqhQxyyck

“JvufoychynljhynooyjhpfnppxspkhUhmyuglhugqhuhyxohxahynooyjhpfnppxspk
Ynljhoenpk”

Ugguhoxxlhuhlgnajhugqhaxslhnghejshiju ona yhzenojheugqphfxrjsjqhznoe
sngbp,hugqhijbughpexzngbhexzhoejhtufengjhzxsljqkhNohzuphfyjushoeuohpej
puzhgxoengbhzx yqhijh gqjspoxxqhasxthejshjvmyuguonxg;hi ohuzusjhoeuo
ejshouylhzuphmyjupugohugqhejsheugqphiju ona yhpejhzjgohxghjvmyungngbk

“Txsjhynljhynooyjhmjglgnrjp,”hRjpyxrplchpunqhmyuca yyc,hgjrjshoulngb
enphjcjphxaahejsk

Ugguhburjhuh. pohmjsfjmoniyjhptnyj,hi ohtuqjhgxhugpzjskh“Npg’ohnohos j,
LusyhAjqxsnofe,hoeuohno’ph. pohynljhynooyjhpfnppxsp?”hpejhpunqhoxhoej
pojzusqk

“_Xe,h.u,_”hugpzjsjqhoejhBjstugkh_“JphnpohjnghbugdhjngaufejphQngb,”_
ugqhejhijbughoxhjvmyunghoejhfxgpos fonxghxahoejhtufengjk

“No’phuhmnochnohqxjpg’ohingqhoxxkhNhpuzhxgjhuohoejhRnjgguhjveninonxg,
zenfehingqphznoehuhznsj,”hpunqhPrnudeplckh“Oejchzx yqhijhtxsj
msxanouiyjhngh pjk”

_“Jphlxttohqsu ahugkkkkhQjshMsjnphrxthQsueoht pphu pbjsjfegjohzjsqjgk”_
UgqhoejhBjstug,hsx pjqhasxthenphoufno sgnoc,ho sgjqhoxhRsxgplckh_“Qup
yäppohpnfehu psjfegjg,hJsyu feok”_hOejhBjstughzuph. pohajjyngbhnghoej
mxfljohzejsjhzjsjhenphmjgfnyhugqhoejhgxojixxlhejhuyzucphzsxojhng,hi o
sjfxyyjfongbhoeuohejhzuphuohuhqnggjs,hugqhxipjsrngbhRsxgplc’phfenyyc
byugfj,hejhfejfljqhentpjyakh_“D hfxtmyndnjso,htufeohd hrnjyhLyxmxo,”_
ejhfxgfy qjqk

_“ZügpfeohtughQxfexop,hpxheuohtughu fehLyxmxop,”_hpunqhRuppjglu
Rjpyxrplc,htntnflngbhoejhBjstugkh_“.’uqxsjhy’uyyjtugq,”_hejhuqqsjppjq
Ugguhubunghznoehoejhputjhptnyjk

_“Fjppjd,”_hpejhpunqhznoehmyuca yhpjrjsnock

“Zjhjvmjfojqhoxhangqhcx hnghoejhanjyqp,hRuppnychPjtcxgnofe,”hpejhpunq
oxhoejhqxfoxs,huhpnflyc-yxxlngbhtug;h“eurjhcx hijjghoejsj?”

“Nhzjgohoejsj,hi ohNheuqhouljghaynbeo,”hoejhqxfoxshugpzjsjqhznoehbyxxtc
.xfxpjgjppk

“Oejghcx ’rjhouljghuhbxxqhfxgpono onxguy?”

“Pmyjgqnq!”

“Zjyy,hugqhexzhzuphoejhxyqhzxtug?hNhexmjhno’phgxohocme p?”

“Ocme phnohnphgxo,hi ohno’phoulngbhuhiuqho sgk”

“Zeuohuhmnoc!”hpunqhUggu,hugqheurngbhoe phmunqhoejhq jphxahfnrnynochox
ejshqxtjponfhfnsfyj,hpejho sgjqhoxhejshxzghasnjgqpk

“Nohzx yqhijhuheusqhoupl,hoex be,hoxhfxgpos fohuhtufengjhasxthcx s
qjpfsnmonxg,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hPrnudeplchpunqh.jpongbyck

“Xe,hgx,hzechpx?”hpunqhUgguhznoehuhptnyjhoeuohijosucjqhoeuohpejhlgjz
oejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhfeustngbhnghejshqnpw npnonxgph mxghoejhtufengjhoeuo
euqhijjghgxonfjqhichPrnudeplckhOenphgjzhosunohxahbnsynpehfxw joonpegjpp
tuqjhugh gmyjupugohntmsjppnxghxghQxyyck

“I ohUgguhUsluqcjrgu’phlgxzyjqbjhxahusfenojfo sjhnphtusrjyx p,”hpunq
O peljrnofek

“Oxhijhp sj,hNhejusqhUgguhUsluqcjrguhouylngbhcjpojsquchuix ohmyngoep
ugqhqutm-fx spjp,”hpunqhRjpyxrplckh“EurjhNhbxohnohsnbeo?”

“Oejsj’phgxoengbhtusrjyx phuix ohno,hzejghxgjhpjjphugqhejusphpxht fehxa
no,”hpunqhUggukh“I o,hNhqusjhpuc,hcx hqxg’ohjrjghlgxzhzeuohex pjphusj
tuqjhxa?”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpuzhoeuohUgguhqnpynljqhoejhoxgjhxahsunyyjschoeuo
jvnpojqhijozjjghejshugqhRjpyxrplc,hi ohajyyhnghznoehnohubungpohejs
znyyk

Rsxgplchufojqhnghoenphtuoojshw nojhqnaajsjgoychasxthYjrngkhEjhxirnx pyc
uooufejqhgxhpnbgnanfugfjhoxhRjpyxrplc’phfeuoojsngb;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hej
jgfx subjqhenph.jpopk

“Fxtjhgxz,hojyyh p,hRjpyxrplc,hexzhusjhoejhpoxgjphejyqhoxbjoejs?”

“Ichfjtjgo,hxahfx spjk”

“Isurx!hUgqhzeuohnphfjtjgo?”

“Xe,hpxtjhpxsohxahmupojhkkkhgx,hm ooc,”hpunqhRjpyxrplc,hsunpngbhu
bjgjsuyhyu bek

Oejhfxtmugchuohqnggjs,hznoehoejhjvfjmonxghxahoejhqxfoxs,hoejhusfenojfo,
ugqhoejhpojzusq,hzexhsjtungjqhmy gbjqhnghbyxxtchpnyjgfj,hljmoh mhu
fxgrjspuonxghoeuohgjrjshmu pjq,hbyugfngbhxaahxgjhp i.jfo,haupojgngbhxg
ugxoejs,hugqhuohontjphpongbngbhxgjhxshoejhxoejshoxhoejhw nflkhXgfj
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhajyohzx gqjqhoxhoejhw nfl,hugqhbxohpxhexohoeuohpej
mxpnonrjychay pejqhugqhzxgqjsjqhuaojszusqphzejoejshpejheuqhpunq
ugcoengbhjvosjtjhxsh gmyjupugokhPrnudeplchijbughouylngbhxahYjrng,
qjpfsningbhenphposugbjhrnjzhoeuohtufengjschnphpntmychmjsgnfnx phnghnop
jaajfophxghS ppnughubsnf yo sjk

“Nheurjhgxohoejhmyjup sjhxahlgxzngbhoenphTkhYjrng,”hRsxgplchpunq,
ptnyngb,h“i ohtxpohynljychejheuphgjrjshpjjghoejhtufengjphejhfxgqjtgp;
xshnahejheuphpjjghugqhosnjqhugc,hnoht poheurjhijjghuaojshuhw jjs
aupenxg,hpxtjhS ppnughntnouonxg,hgxohuhtufengjhasxthuisxuqkhZeuohpxso
xahrnjzphfughugcxgjheurjhxghp fehuhp i.jfo?”

“O slnpehrnjzp,hnghbjgjsuy,”hRjpyxrplchpunq,ho sgngbhoxhUgguhznoehu
ptnyjk

“Nhfug’ohqjajgqhenphxmngnxgp,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpunq,hansngbh m;h“i o
Nhfughpuchoeuohej’phuhenbeychf yonruojqhtug,hugqhnahejhzjsjhejsjhej
zx yqhlgxzhrjschzjyyhexzhoxhugpzjshcx ,hoex behNhuthgxohfumuiyjhxa
qxngbhpxk”

“Nhynljhenthjvosjtjyc,hugqhzjhusjhbsjuohasnjgqp,”hPrnudeplchpunq,
ptnyngbhbxxq-guo sjqyckh“_Tunphmusqxg,hnyhjpoh ghmjonohmj hoxw é;_hej
tungoungp,haxshngpougfj,hoeuohqnposnfohfx gfnyphugqhusinosuonxghixusqp
usjhuyyhxahgxh pj,hugqhejhnph gznyyngbhoxhouljhmusohnghugcoengbk”

“No’phx shS ppnughumuoec,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hmx sngbhzuojshasxthughnfjq
qjfugojshngoxhuhqjynfuojhbyupphxghuhenbehpojt;h“zj’rjhgxhpjgpjhxahoej
q onjphx shmsnrnyjbjphntmxpjh mxgh p,hugqhpxhzjhsja pjhoxhsjfxbgndj
oejpjhq onjpk”

“Nhlgxzhgxhtughtxsjhposnfohnghoejhmjsaxstugfjhxahenphq onjp,”hpunq
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hnssnouojqhichRsxgplc’phoxgjhxahp mjsnxsnock

“Axshtchmuso,”hm sp jqhRsxgplc,hzexhzuphjrnqjgoychaxshpxtjhsjupxghxs
xoejshljjgychuaajfojqhichoenphfxgrjspuonxg,h“p fehuphNhut,hNhut,hxghoej
fxgosusc,hjvosjtjychbsuoja yhaxshoejhexgxshoejcheurjhqxgjhtj,hoeuglphox
GnlxyuchNrugnofe”h(ejhngqnfuojqhPrnudeplc),h“nghjyjfongbhtjhuh. ponfj
xahoejhmjufjkhNhfxgpnqjshoeuohaxshtjhoejhq ochxahijngbhmsjpjgohuohoej
pjppnxg,hxah. qbngbhpxtjhmjupugop’hw ussjyhuix ohuhexspj,hnphup
ntmxsougohuphugcoengbhNhfughqxkhUgqhNhpeuyyhsjbusqhnohuphughexgxshna
oejchjyjfohtjhaxshoejhqnposnfohfx gfnykhNo’phxgychnghoeuohzuchNhfughmuc
axshoejhuqrugoubjphNhjg.xchuphuhyugqxzgjskh gy flnychoejchqxg’o
 gqjspougqhoejhzjnbeohoeuohoejhinbhyugqxzgjsphx beohoxheurjhnghoej
pouojk”

NohzuphposugbjhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhoxhejushexzhpjsjgjychfxganqjgohej
zuphxahijngbhsnbeohuohenphxzghouiyjkhPejhoex beohexzhYjrng,hzex
ijynjrjqhoejhxmmxpnoj,hzuph. pohuphmxpnonrjhnghenphxmngnxgphuohenphxzg
ouiyjkhI ohpejhyxrjqhYjrng,hugqhpxhpejhzuphxghenphpnqjk

“Pxhzjhfughsjflxgh mxghcx ,hfx go,haxshoejhfxtngbhjyjfonxgp?”hpunq
Prnudeplckh“I ohcx ht pohfxtjhuhynooyjhijaxsjeugq,hpxhuphoxhijhxghoej
pmxohichoejhjnbeoekhNahcx hzx yqhqxhtjhoejhexgxshoxhpoxmhznoehtjk”

“Nhsuoejshubsjjhznoehcx sh_iju -asèsj_,”hpunqhUggu,h“oex behgxohw noj
xghoejhputjhbsx gqhuphej,”hpejhuqqjqhznoehuhptnyjkh“N’thuasunqhoeuohzj
eurjhoxxhtugchxahoejpjhm iynfhq onjphnghoejpjhyuoojshqucpkh. pohuphng
xyqhqucphoejsjhzjsjhpxhtugchbxrjsgtjgoha gfonxgusnjphoeuohxgjheuqhox
fuyyhnghuha gfonxguschaxshjrjschpngbyjhoengb,hpxhgxzhjrjscxgj’phqxngb
pxtjhpxsohxahm iynfhq ockhUyjvjcheuphijjghejsjhgxzhpnvhtxgoep,hugqhej’p
uhtjtijs,hNhqxhijynjrj,hxahanrjhxshpnvhqnaajsjgohm iynfhixqnjpkh_Q 
osunghw jhfjyuhru,_hoejhzexyjhontjhznyyhijhzupojqhxghnokhUgqhN’thuasunq
oeuohznoehp fehuht yonmynfnochxahoejpjhixqnjp,hoejc’yyhjgqhnghijngbhu
tjsjhaxstkhExzhtugchusjhcx huhtjtijshxa,hGnlxyuchNrugnofe?”hpejho sgjq
oxhPrnudeplc—“xrjshozjgoc,hNhaugfck”

Ugguhpmxljhynbeoyc,hi ohnssnouonxghfx yqhijhqnpfjsgjqhnghejshoxgjk
QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hzuofengbhUgguhugqhRsxgplchuoojgonrjyc,hqjojfojqhno
ngpougoyckhPejhgxonfjq,hoxx,hoeuohuphpejhpmxljhRsxgplc’phaufjheuq
nttjqnuojychouljghuhpjsnx phugqhxiponguojhjvmsjppnxgkhGxonfngbhoenp,
ugqhoeuohMsngfjpphRusrusuhuohxgfjhtuqjheupojhoxhfeugbjhoejhfxgrjspuonxg
ichouylngbhxahMjojspi sbhufw ungougfjp,hugqhsjtjtijsngbhzeuohRsxgplc
euqhznoex ohummusjgohfxggjfonxghpunqhnghoejhbusqjghxahenphzxslhnghoej
fx gosc,hQxyychp stnpjqhoeuohoenphw jponxghxahm iynfhufonrnochzup
fxggjfojqhznoehpxtjhqjjmhmsnruojhqnpubsjjtjgohijozjjghUgguhugqhRsxgplck

Oejhqnggjs,hoejhzngj,hoejhqjfxsuonxghxahoejhouiyjhzjsjhuyyhrjschbxxq;
i ohnohzuphuyyhynljhzeuohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhpjjghuohaxstuyhqnggjsp
ugqhiuyyphzenfehxahyuojhcjuspheuqhijfxtjhw nojh gautnynushoxhejs;hno
uyyheuqhoejhputjhntmjspxguyhugqhfxgposungjqhfeusufojs,hugqhpxhxghug
xsqnguschquchugqhnghuhynooyjhfnsfyjhxahasnjgqphnohtuqjhuhqnpubsjjuiyj
ntmsjppnxghxghejsk

Uaojshqnggjshoejchpuohxghoejhojssufj,hoejghoejchmsxfjjqjqhoxhmyuchyuzg
ojggnpkhOejhmyucjsp,hqnrnqjqhngoxhozxhmusonjp,hpoxxqhxghxmmxpnojhpnqjp
xahuhonbeoychqsuzghgjohznoehbnyohmxyjphxghoejhfusja yychyjrjyjqhugq
sxyyjqhfsxw jo-bsx gqkhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhtuqjhughuoojtmohoxhmyuc,hi o
nohzuphuhyxgbhontjhijaxsjhpejhfx yqh gqjspougqhoejhbutj,hugqhichoej
ontjhpejhqnqh gqjspougqhno,hpejhzuphpxhonsjqhoeuohpejhpuohqxzghznoe
MsngfjpphRusrusuhugqhpntmychyxxljqhxghuohoejhmyucjspkhEjshmusogjs,
O peljrnofe,hburjh mhmyucngbhoxx,hi ohoejhxoejsphljmohoejhbutjh mhaxshu
yxgbhontjkhPrnudeplchugqhRsxgplchixoehmyucjqhrjschzjyyhugqhpjsnx pyck
Oejchljmohuhpeusmhyxxlx ohxghoejhiuyyphpjsrjqhoxhoejt,hugqhznoex o
eupojhxshbjoongbhnghjufehxoejs’phzuc,hoejchsughuqsxnoych mhoxhoejt,
zunojqhaxshoejhsjix gq,hugqhgjuoychugqhuff suojychsjo sgjqhoejthxrjs
oejhgjokhRjpyxrplchmyucjqhzxspjhoeughoejhxoejspkhEjhzuphoxxhjubjs,hi o
ejhljmohoejhmyucjsphynrjychznoehenphenbehpmnsnopkhEnphyu beojshugq
x ofsnjphgjrjshmu pjqkhYnljhoejhxoejshtjghxahoejhmusoc,hznoehoej
yuqnjp’hmjstnppnxg,hejhoxxlhxaahenphfxuo,hugqhenphpxynq,hfxtjychanb sj
nghenphzenojhpenso-pyjjrjp,hznoehenphsjqhmjspmnsngbhaufjhugqhenp
ntm ypnrjhtxrjtjgop,htuqjhuhmnfo sjhoeuohntmsngojqhnopjyahrnrnqychxg
oejhtjtxsck

ZejghQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhyuchnghijqhoeuohgnbeo,huphpxxghuphpejhfyxpjq
ejshjcjp,hpejhpuzhRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchaycngbhuix ohoejhfsxw johbsx gqk

Q sngbhoejhbutjhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphgxohjg.xcngbhejspjyakhPejhqnq
gxohynljhoejhynbeohoxgjhxahsunyyjschoeuohzuphljmoh mhuyyhoejhontj
ijozjjghRuppjgluhRjpyxrplchugqhUggu,hugqhoejh gguo suygjpphuyoxbjoejs
xahbsxzg- mhmjxmyj,huyyhuyxgjhznoex ohfenyqsjg,hmyucngbhuohuhfenyq’p
butjkhI ohoxhurxnqhisjulngbh mhoejhmusochugqhoxhbjohoesx behoejhontj
pxtjexz,huaojshuhsjpohpejh.xngjqhoejhbutjhubung,hugqhmsjojgqjqhoxhij
jg.xcngbhnokhUyyhoeuohquchnohpjjtjqhoxhejshuphoex behpejhzjsjhufongbhng
uhoejuojshznoehufoxsphfyjrjsjshoeughpej,hugqhoeuohejshiuqhufongbhzup
pmxnyngbhoejhzexyjhmjsaxstugfjkhPejheuqhfxtjhznoehoejhngojgonxghxa
poucngbhozxhqucp,hnahuyyhzjgohzjyykhI ohnghoejhjrjgngb,hq sngbhoej
butj,hpejhtuqjh mhejshtngqhoeuohpejhzx yqhbxhextjhgjvohquckhOej
tuojsguyhfusjphugqhzxssnjp,hzenfehpejheuqhpxheuojqhxghoejhzuc,hgxz,
uaojshuhquchpmjgohznoex ohoejt,hpos flhejshnghw nojhugxoejshynbeo,hugq
ojtmojqhejshiuflhoxhoejtk

Zejg,huaojshjrjgngbhojuhugqhuhsxzhichgnbeohnghoejhixuo,hQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhzjgohuyxgjhoxhejshsxxt,hoxxlhxaahejshqsjpp,hugqhijbug
ussugbngbhejshoengheunshaxshoejhgnbeo,hpejheuqhuhbsjuohpjgpjhxahsjynjak

NohzuphmxpnonrjychqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhejshoxhoenglhoeuohUgguhzuphfxtngbhox
pjjhejshnttjqnuojyckhPejhyxgbjqhoxhijhuyxgjhznoehejshxzghoex beopk


Feumojsh23

QxyychzuphzugongbhoxhbxhoxhijqhzejghUgguhfutjhnghoxhpjjhejs,huoonsjq
axshoejhgnbeokhNghoejhfx spjhxahoejhquchUgguheuqhpjrjsuyhontjphijb ghox
pmjulhxahtuoojsphgjushejshejuso,hugqhjrjschontjhuaojshuhajzhzxsqphpej
euqhpoxmmjq:h“Uaojszusqp,hichx spjyrjp,hzj’yyhouylhuix ohjrjscoengbk
N’rjhbxohpxht fehNhzugohoxhojyyhcx ,”hpejhpunqk

Gxzhoejchzjsjhichoejtpjyrjp,hugqhUgguhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhouylhuix ok
PejhpuohnghoejhzngqxzhyxxlngbhuohQxyyc,hugqhbxngbhxrjshnghejshxzghtngq
uyyhoejhpoxsjphxahngontuojhouylhzenfeheuqhpjjtjqhpxhngjveu poniyj
ijaxsjeugq,hugqhpejhax gqhgxoengbkhUohoeuohtxtjgohnohpjjtjqhoxhejshoeuo
jrjscoengbheuqhijjghpunqhuysjuqck

“Zjyy,hzeuohxahLnooc?”hpejhpunqhznoehuhejurchpnbe,hyxxlngbhmjgnojgoyc
uohQxyyckh“Ojyyhtjhoejhos oe,hQxyyc:hnpg’ohpejhugbschznoehtj?”

“Ugbsc?hXe,hgx!”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hptnyngbk

“I ohpejheuojphtj,hqjpmnpjphtj?”

“Xe,hgx!hI ohcx hlgxzhoeuohpxsohxahoengbhnpg’ohaxsbnrjgk”

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpunqhUggu,ho sgngbhuzuchugqhyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhxmjghzngqxzk
“I ohNhzuphgxohoxhiyutjkhUgqhzexhnphoxhiyutj?hZeuo’phoejhtjugngbhxa
ijngbhoxhiyutj?hFx yqhnoheurjhijjghxoejsznpj?hZeuohqxhcx hoengl?hFx yq
nohmxppniycheurjheummjgjqhoeuohcx hqnqg’ohijfxtjhoejhznajhxahPonru?”

“Sjuyyc,hNhqxg’ohlgxzkhI ohoenphnphzeuohNhzugohcx hoxhojyyhtjkkkk”

“Cjp,hcjp,hi ohzj’rjhgxohangnpejqhuix ohLnoockhNphpejheummc?hEj’phu
rjschgnfjhtug,hoejchpuck”

“Ej’pht fehtxsjhoeughrjschgnfjkhNhqxg’ohlgxzhuhijoojshtugk”

“Ue,hexzhbyuqhNhut!hN’thpxhbyuq!hT fehtxsjhoeughrjschgnfj,”hpej
sjmjuojqk

Qxyychptnyjqk

“I ohojyyhtjhuix ohcx spjyakhZj’rjhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhouylhuix okhUgqhN’rj
euqhuhouylhznoekkkk”hQxyychqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuohoxhfuyyhentkhPejhajyohno
uzlzusqhoxhfuyyhenthjnoejshoejhfx gohxshUyjvjchLnsnyyxrnofek

“ZnoehUyjvjc,”hpunqhUggu,h“Nhlgxzhzeuohcx houyljqhuix okhI ohNhzugojq
oxhuplhcx hqnsjfoychzeuohcx hoenglhxahtj,hxahtchynaj?”

“ExzhuthNhoxhpuchynljhoeuohposunbeohxaa?hNhsjuyychqxg’ohlgxzk”

“Gx,hojyyhtjhuyyhoejhputjkkkkhCx hpjjhtchynajkhI ohcx ht pog’ohaxsbjo
oeuohcx ’sjhpjjngbh phnghoejhp ttjs,hzejghcx heurjhfxtjhoxh phugqhzj
usjhgxohuyxgjkkkkhI ohzjhfutjhejsjhjusychnghoejhpmsngb,hynrjqhw noj
uyxgj,hugqhpeuyyhijhuyxgjhubung,hugqhNhqjpnsjhgxoengbhijoojskhI o
ntubngjhtjhynrngbhuyxgjhznoex ohent,huyxgj,hugqhoeuohznyyhijhkkkhNhpjj
ichjrjscoengbhoeuohnohznyyhxaojghijhsjmjuojq,hoeuohejhznyyhijheuyahoej
ontjhuzuchasxthextj,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh mhugqhpnoongbhqxzghfyxpjhic
Qxyyck

“Xahfx spj,”hpejhngojss mojqhQxyyc,hzexhzx yqheurjhugpzjsjq,h“xahfx spj
Nhzxg’ohoschoxhljjmhenthichaxsfjkhNhqxg’ohljjmhenthngqjjqkhOejhsufjp
usjh. pohfxtngb,henphexspjphusjhs ggngb,hejhznyyhbxkhN’thrjschbyuqkhI o
oenglhxahtj,haugfchtchmxpnonxgkkkkhI ohzeuo’phoejh pjhxahouylngbhuix o
no?”hPejhptnyjqkh“Zjyy,hzeuohqnqhejhouylhuix ohznoehcx ?”

“EjhpmxljhxahzeuohNhzugohoxhpmjulhuix ohxahtcpjya,hugqhno’phjupchaxshtj
oxhijhenphuqrxfuoj;hxahzejoejshoejsjhnphgxohuhmxppninynochkkkhzejoejs
cx hfx yqhgxokkkk”h(QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhejpnouojq)h“fxssjfo,hntmsxrj
cx shmxpnonxgkkkkhCx hlgxzhexzhNhyxxlhuohnokkkkhI ohuyyhoejhputj,hna
mxppniyj,hcx hpex yqhbjohtussnjqkkkk”

“Qnrxsfj,hcx htjug?”hpunqhUggukh“Qxhcx hlgxz,hoejhxgychzxtughzexhfutj
oxhpjjhtjhnghMjojspi sbhzuphIjopchOrjsplucu?hCx hlgxzhejs,hxahfx spj?
_U haxgq,hf’jpohyuhajttjhyuhmy phqjmsurjéhw nhjvnpojk_hPejheuqhug
ngosnb jhznoehO peljrnofe,hqjfjnrngbhejshe piugqhnghoejhiupjpohzuckhUgq
pejhoxyqhtjhoeuohpejhqnqhgxohfusjhoxhlgxzhtjhpxhyxgbhuphtchmxpnonxghzup
nssjb yuskhQxg’ohntubngjhNhzx yqhfxtmusjhkkkhNhlgxzhcx ,hqusyngbkhI ohN
fx yqhgxohejymhsjtjtijsngbkkkkhZjyy,hpxhzeuohqnqhejhpuchoxhcx ?”hpej
sjmjuojqk

“Ejhpunqhoeuohejhzuph geummchxghcx shuffx gohugqhenphxzgkhMjseumphcx 
znyyhpuchoeuohno’phjbxnpt,hi ohzeuohuhyjbnontuojhugqhgxiyjhjbxnptkhEj
zugophanspohxahuyyhoxhyjbnontndjhenphqu beojs,hugqhoxhijhcx she piugq,
oxheurjhuhyjbuyhsnbeohoxhcx k”

“Zeuohznaj,hzeuohpyurjhfughijhpxh oojsychuhpyurjhuphN,hnghtchmxpnonxg?”
pejhm ohnghbyxxtnyck

“Oejhfenjahoengbhejhqjpnsjphkkkhejhqjpnsjphoeuohcx hpex yqhgxohp aajsk”

“Oeuo’phntmxppniyjkhZjyy?”

“Zjyy,hugqhoejhtxpohyjbnontuojhqjpnsj—ejhznpejphoeuohcx shfenyqsjg
pex yqheurjhuhgutjk”

“Zeuohfenyqsjg?”hUgguhpunq,hgxohyxxlngbhuohQxyyc,hugqheuyahfyxpngbhejs
jcjpk

“Uggnjhugqhoexpjhoxhfxtjkkkk”

“Ejhgjjqhgxohosx iyjhxghoeuohpfxsj;hNhpeuyyheurjhgxhtxsjhfenyqsjgk”

“Exzhfughcx hojyyhoeuohcx hzxg’o?”

“Nhpeuyyhgxo,hijfu pjhNhqxg’ohznpehnok”hUgq,hnghpmnojhxahuyyhejs
jtxonxg,hUgguhptnyjq,huphpejhfu beohoejhguïrjhjvmsjppnxghxahf snxpnoc,
zxgqjs,hugqhexssxshxghQxyyc’phaufjk

“Oejhqxfoxshoxyqhtjhuaojshtchnyygjppkkkk”

“Ntmxppniyj!”hpunqhQxyyc,hxmjgngbhejshjcjphznqjk

Axshejshoenphzuphxgjhxahoexpjhqnpfxrjsnjphoejhfxgpjw jgfjphugq
qjq fonxgphasxthzenfehusjhpxhnttjgpjhoeuohuyyhoeuohxgjhajjyphaxshoej
anspohngpougohnphoeuohnohnphntmxppniyjhoxhouljhnohuyyhng,hugqhoeuohxgj
znyyheurjhoxhsjayjfohuhbsjuo,hbsjuohqjuyh mxghnok

Oenphqnpfxrjsc,hp qqjgychoesxzngbhynbeohxghuyyhoexpjhautnynjphxahxgjhxs
ozxhfenyqsjg,hzenfeheuqhenoejsoxhijjghpxhngfxtmsjejgpniyjhoxhejs,
usx pjqhpxhtugchnqjup,hsjayjfonxgp,hugqhfxgosuqnfoxschjtxonxgp,hoeuo
pejheuqhgxoengbhoxhpuc,hugqhpntmychbudjqhznoehznqj-xmjghjcjphxahzxgqjs
uohUggukhOenphzuphoejhrjschoengbhpejheuqhijjghqsjutngbhxa,hi ohgxz
yjusgngbhoeuohnohzuphmxppniyj,hpejhzuphexssnanjqkhPejhajyohoeuohnohzup
oxxhpntmyjhuhpxy onxghxahoxxhfxtmynfuojqhuhmsxiyjtk

_“G’jpo-fjhmuphnttxsuy?”_hzuphuyyhpejhpunq,huaojshuhisnjahmu pjk

“Zechpx?hOengl,hNheurjhuhfexnfjhijozjjghozxhuyojsguonrjp:hjnoejshoxhij
znoehfenyq,hoeuohnphughngruynq,hxshoxhijhoejhasnjgqhugqhfxtmugnxghxahtc
e piugq—msufonfuyychtche piugq,”hUgguhpunqhnghuhoxgjhngojgonxguyyc
p mjsanfnuyhugqhasnrxyx pk

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpunqhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hejusngbhoejhrjschusb tjgophpejheuq
 pjqhoxhejspjya,hugqhgxohangqngbhoejhputjhaxsfjhnghoejthuphijaxsjk

“Axshcx ,haxshxoejshmjxmyj,”hpunqhUggu,huphoex behqnrngngbhejs
oex beop,h“oejsjhtuchijhsjupxghoxhejpnouoj;hi ohaxshtjkkkkhCx ht po
fxgpnqjs,hNhuthgxohenphznaj;hejhyxrjphtjhuphyxgbhuphejhyxrjphtjkhUgq
exzhuthNhoxhljjmhenphyxrj?hGxohynljhoenp!”

Pejhtxrjqhejshzenojheugqphnghuhf srjhijaxsjhejshzunpohznoe
jvosuxsqnguschsumnqnoc,hupheummjgphq sngbhtxtjgophxahjvfnojtjgo;hnqjup
ugqhtjtxsnjphs pejqhngoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’phejuqkh“N,”hpejhoex beo,
“qnqhgxohljjmhtchuoosufonxghaxshPonru;hejhyjaohtjhaxshxoejsp,hugqhoej
anspohzxtughaxshzexthejhijosucjqhtjhqnqhgxohljjmhenthichijngbhuyzucp
msjoochugqhynrjyckhEjhqjpjsojqhejshugqhoxxlhugxoejskhUgqhfughUggu
uoosufohugqhljjmhFx gohRsxgplchnghoeuohzuc?hNahoeuohnphzeuohejhyxxlp
axs,hejhznyyhangqhqsjppjphugqhtuggjsphponyyhtxsjhuoosufonrjhugq
feustngbkhUgqhexzjrjshzenojhugqhiju ona yhejshiusjhustphusj,hexzjrjs
iju ona yhejsha yyhanb sjhugqhejshjubjshaufjh gqjshejshiyuflhf syp,hej
znyyhangqhpxtjoengbhijoojshponyy,h. pohuphtchqnpb pongb,hmnona y,hugq
feustngbhe piugqhqxjpk”

Qxyychtuqjhgxhugpzjs,hpejhtjsjychpnbejqkhUgguhgxonfjqhoenphpnbe,
ngqnfuongbhqnppjgo,hugqhpejhzjgohxgkhNghejshustxschpejheuqhxoejs
usb tjgophpxhposxgbhoeuohgxhugpzjshfx yqhijhtuqjhoxhoejtk

“Qxhcx hpuchoeuohno’phgxohsnbeo?hI ohcx ht pohfxgpnqjs,”hpejhzjgohxg;
“cx haxsbjohtchmxpnonxgkhExzhfughNhqjpnsjhfenyqsjg?hN’thgxohpmjulngbhxa
oejhp aajsngb,hN’thgxohuasunqhxahoeuokhOenglhxgyc,hzeuohusjhtchfenyqsjg
oxhij?hNyy-auojqhfenyqsjg,hzexhznyyheurjhoxhijushuhposugbjs’phgutjkhAxs
oejhrjschaufohxahoejnshinsoehoejchznyyhijhaxsfjqhoxhijhupeutjqhxahoejns
txoejs,hoejnshauoejs,hoejnshinsoek”

“I ohoeuohnph. pohzechuhqnrxsfjhnphgjfjppusck”hI ohUgguhqnqhgxohejus
ejskhPejhyxgbjqhoxhbnrjh oojsugfjhoxhuyyhoejhusb tjgophznoehzenfehpej
euqhpxhtugchontjphfxgrngfjqhejspjyak

“Zeuohnphsjupxghbnrjghtjhaxs,hnahNhuthgxohoxh pjhnohoxhurxnqhisngbngb
 geummchijngbphngoxhoejhzxsyq!”hPejhyxxljqhuohQxyyc,hi ohznoex o
zunongbhaxshuhsjmychpejhzjgohxg:

“Nhpex yqhuyzucphajjyhNheuqhzsxgbjqhoejpjh geummchfenyqsjg,”hpejhpunqk
“Nahoejchusjhgxo,huohugchsuojhoejchusjhgxoh geummc;hzenyjhnahoejchusj
 geummc,hNhuyxgjhpex yqhijhoxhiyutjhaxshnok”

Oejpjhzjsjhoejhrjschusb tjgophQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqh pjqhnghejshxzg
sjayjfonxgp;hi ohpejhejusqhoejthznoex oh gqjspougqngbhoejtkh“Exzhfug
xgjhzsxgbhfsjuo sjphoeuohqxg’ohjvnpo?”hpejhoex beokhUgqhuyyhuohxgfjhoej
nqjuhpos flhejs:hfx yqhnohmxppniyc,h gqjshugchfnsf tpougfjp,heurjhijjg
ijoojshaxshejshaurxsnojhBsnpeuhnahejheuqhgjrjshjvnpojq?hUgqhoenphpjjtjq
oxhejshpxhznyq,hpxhposugbj,hoeuohpejhpexxlhejshejuqhoxhqsnrjhuzuchoenp
ougbyjhxahzensyngb,htuqhnqjupk

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohlgxz;hno’phgxohsnbeo,”hzuphuyyhpejhpunq,hznoehug
jvmsjppnxghxahqnpb pohxghejshaufjk

“Cjp,hi ohcx ht pog’ohaxsbjohoeuohcx hugqhNkkkkhUgqhijpnqjphoeuo,”
uqqjqhUggu,hnghpmnojhxahoejhzjuyoehxahejshusb tjgophugqhoejhmxrjsochxa
Qxyyc’phxi.jfonxgp,hpjjtngbhponyyhoxhuqtnohoeuohnohzuphgxohsnbeo,
“qxg’ohaxsbjohoejhfenjahmxngo,hoeuohNhuthgxohgxzhnghoejhputjhmxpnonxg
uphcx khAxshcx hoejhw jponxghnp:hqxhcx hqjpnsjhgxohoxheurjhugchtxsj
fenyqsjg;hzenyjhaxshtjhnohnp:hqxhNhqjpnsjhoxheurjhoejt?hUgqhoeuo’phu
bsjuohqnaajsjgfjkhCx ht pohpjjhoeuohNhfug’ohqjpnsjhnohnghtchmxpnonxgk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhtuqjhgxhsjmyckhPejhp qqjgychajyohoeuohpejheuqhbxo
aushuzuchasxthUggu;hoeuohoejsjhyuchijozjjghoejthuhiussnjshxahw jponxgp
xghzenfehoejchfx yqhgjrjshubsjj,hugqhuix ohzenfehnohzuphijoojshgxohox
pmjulk


Feumojsh24

“Oejghoejsjhnphuyyhoejhtxsjhsjupxghaxshcx hoxhyjbuyndjhcx shmxpnonxg,
nahmxppniyj,”hpunqhQxyyck

“Cjp,hnahmxppniyj,”hpunqhUggu,hpmjulngbhuyyhuohxgfjhnghugh oojsyc
qnaajsjgohoxgj,hp iq jqhugqhtx sga yk

“P sjychcx hqxg’ohtjughuhqnrxsfjhnphntmxppniyj?hNhzuphoxyqhcx she piugq
euqhfxgpjgojqhoxhnok”

“Qxyyc,hNhqxg’ohzugohoxhouylhuix ohoeuok”

“Xe,hzjhzxg’ohoejg,”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheupojgjqhoxhpuc,hgxonfngbhoej
jvmsjppnxghxahp aajsngbhxghUggu’phaufjkh“UyyhNhpjjhnphoeuohcx houljhoxx
byxxtchuhrnjzhxahoengbpk”

“N?hGxohuohuyy!hN’thuyzucphisnbeohugqheummckhCx hpjj,h_.jhaunphqjp
muppnxgpk_hRjpyxrplckkkk”

“Cjp,hoxhojyyhoejhos oe,hNhqxg’ohynljhRjpyxrplc’phoxgj,”hpunqhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgu,hugvnx phoxhfeugbjhoejhp i.jfok

“Xe,hoeuo’phgxgpjgpj!hNohut pjphUyjvjc,hugqhoeuo’phuyy;hi ohej’phuhixc,
ugqhw nojh gqjshtchfxgosxykhCx hlgxz,hNho sghenthuphNhmyjupjkhNo’ph. po
uphnohtnbeohijhznoehcx shBsnpeukkkkhQxyyc!”—pejhp qqjgychfeugbjqhoej
p i.jfo—“cx hpuchNhouljhoxxhbyxxtchuhrnjzhxahoengbpkhCx hfug’o
 gqjspougqkhNo’phoxxhuza y!hNhoschgxohoxhouljhugchrnjzhxahnohuohuyyk”

“I ohNhoenglhcx hx beohoxkhCx hx beohoxhqxhuyyhcx hfugk”

“I ohzeuohfughNhqx?hGxoengbkhCx hojyyhtjhoxhtusschUyjvjc,hugqhpuchN
qxg’ohoenglhuix ohnokhNhqxg’ohoenglhuix ohno!”hpejhsjmjuojq,hugqhu
ay pehsxpjhngoxhejshaufjkhPejhbxoh m,hposunbeojgngbhejshfejpo,hugq
pnbejqhejurnyckhZnoehejshynbeohpojmhpejhijbughmufngbh mhugqhqxzghoej
sxxt,hpoxmmngbhgxzhugqhoejgkh“Nhqxg’ohoenglhxahno?hGxohuhquc,hgxohug
ex shmuppjphoeuohNhqxg’ohoenglhxahno,hugqhiyutjhtcpjyahaxshoenglngbhxa
nohkkkhijfu pjhoenglngbhxahoeuohtuchqsnrjhtjhtuqkhQsnrjhtjhtuq!”hpej
sjmjuojqkh“ZejghNhoenglhxahno,hNhfug’ohpyjjmhznoex ohtxsmengjkhI o
gjrjshtngqkhYjoh phouylhw njoyckhOejchojyyhtj,hqnrxsfjkhNghoejhanspo
myufj,hejhzxg’ohbnrjhtjhuhqnrxsfjkhEj’ph gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahFx gojpp
YnqnuhNrugxrguhgxzk”

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hpnoongbhjsjfohxghuhfeuns,ho sgjqhejshejuq,
axyyxzngbhUgguhznoehuhaufjhxahpctmuoejonfhp aajsngbk

“Cx hx beohoxhtuljhoejhuoojtmo,”hpejhpunqhpxaoyck

“P mmxpjhNhtuljhoejhuoojtmokhZeuohqxjphnohtjug?”hpejhpunq,hjrnqjgoyc
bnrngbh oojsugfjhoxhuhoex beo,huhoex pugqhontjphoex beohxrjshugq
yjusgjqhichejusokh“NohtjugphoeuohN,heuongbhent,hi ohponyyhsjfxbgndngb
oeuohNheurjhzsxgbjqhent—ugqhNhfxgpnqjshenthtubgugntx p—oeuohNhe tnynuoj
tcpjyahoxhzsnojhoxhentkkkkhZjyy,hp mmxpjhNhtuljhoejhjaaxso;hNhqxhnok
JnoejshNhsjfjnrjhuhe tnynuongbhsja puyhxshfxgpjgokkkkhZjyy,hNheurj
sjfjnrjqhenphfxgpjgo,hpuckkkk”hUgguhzuphuohoeuohtxtjgohuohoejha soejpo
jgqhxahoejhsxxt,hugqhpejhpoxmmjqhoejsj,hqxngbhpxtjoengbhoxhoejhf soung
uohoejhzngqxzkh“Nhsjfjnrjhenphfxgpjgo,hi ohtchkkkhtchpxg?hOejchzxg’o
bnrjhenth mhoxhtjkhEjhznyyhbsxzh mhqjpmnpngbhtj,hznoehenphauoejs,hzext
N’rjhuiugqxgjqkhQxhcx hpjj,hNhyxrjhkkkhjw uyyc,hNhoengl,hi ohixoehtxsj
oeughtcpjya—ozxhfsjuo sjp,hPjscxdeuhugqhUyjvjck”

Pejhfutjhx ohngoxhoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxthugqhpoxxqhaufngbhQxyyc,hznoe
ejshustphmsjppjqhonbeoychufsxpphejshfejpokhNghejshzenojhqsjppngbhbxzg
ejshanb sjhpjjtjqhtxsjhoeugh p uyychbsugqhugqhisxuqkhPejhijgohejshejuq,
ugqhznoehpengngb,hzjohjcjphyxxljqhasxth gqjshejshisxzphuohQxyyc,huhoeng
ynooyjhmnona yhanb sjhnghejshmuofejqhqsjppngbh.ufljohugqhgnbeofum,
peulngbhuyyhxrjshznoehjtxonxgk

“Nohnphxgychoexpjhozxhfsjuo sjphoeuohNhyxrj,hugqhxgjhjvfy qjphoej
xoejskhNhfug’oheurjhoejthoxbjoejs,hugqhoeuo’phoejhxgychoengbhNhzugok
UgqhpngfjhNhfug’oheurjhoeuo,hNhqxg’ohfusjhuix ohoejhsjpokhNhqxg’ohfusj
uix ohugcoengb,hugcoengbkhUgqhnohznyyhjgqhxgjhzuchxshugxoejs,hugqhpxhN
fug’o,hNhqxg’ohynljhoxhouylhxahnokhPxhqxg’ohiyutjhtj,hqxg’oh. qbjhtj
axshugcoengbkhCx hfug’ohznoehcx shm sjhejusoh gqjspougqhuyyhoeuohN’t
p aajsngbk”hPejhzjgoh m,hpuohqxzghijpnqjhQxyyc,hugqhznoehuhb nyochyxxl,
mjjmjqhngoxhejshaufjhugqhoxxlhejsheugqk

“Zeuohusjhcx hoenglngb?hZeuohusjhcx hoenglngbhuix ohtj?hQxg’ohqjpmnpj
tjkhNhqxg’ohqjpjsrjhfxgojtmokhN’thpntmych geummckhNahugcxgjhnph geummc,
Nhut,”hpejhusonf yuojq,hugqho sgngbhuzuc,hpejhi spohngoxhojuspk

Yjaohuyxgj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhpunqhejshmsucjsphugqhzjgohoxhijqkhPej
euqhajyohaxshUgguhznoehuyyhejshejusohzenyjhpejhzuphpmjulngbhoxhejs,hi o
gxzhpejhfx yqhgxohaxsfjhejspjyahoxhoenglhxahejskhOejhtjtxsnjphxahextj
ugqhxahejshfenyqsjghsxpjh mhnghejshntubnguonxghznoehuhmjf ynushfeust
w nojhgjzhoxhejs,hznoehuhpxsohxahgjzhisnyynugfjkhOeuohzxsyqhxahejshxzg
pjjtjqhoxhejshgxzhpxhpzjjohugqhmsjfnx phoeuohpejhzx yqhgxohxghugc
uffx gohpmjgqhughjvosuhquchx opnqjhno,hugqhpejhtuqjh mhejshtngqhoeuo
pejhzx yqhfjsoungychbxhiuflhgjvohquck

Ugguhtjugontjhzjgohiuflhoxhejshix qxns,hoxxlhuhzngj-byupphugqhqsxmmjq
ngoxhnohpjrjsuyhqsxmphxahuhtjqnfngj,hxahzenfehoejhmsngfnmuyhngbsjqnjgo
zuphtxsmengjkhUaojshqsnglngbhnohxaahugqhpnoongbhponyyhuhynooyjhzenyj,
pejhzjgohngoxhejshijqsxxthnghuhpxxoejqhugqhtxsjhfejjsa yhasutjhxahtngqk

Zejghpejhzjgohngoxhoejhijqsxxt,hRsxgplchyxxljqhngojgoychuohejskhEjhzup
yxxlngbhaxshosufjphxahoejhfxgrjspuonxghzenfehejhlgjzhoeuo,hpoucngbhpx
yxgbhnghQxyyc’phsxxt,hpejht poheurjheuqhznoehejskhI ohnghejshjvmsjppnxg
xahsjposungjqhjvfnojtjgo,hugqhxahuhpxsohxahsjpjsrj,hejhfx yqhangq
gxoengbhi ohoejhiju ochoeuohuyzucphijznofejqhenthuasjpehoex behejhzup
 pjqhoxhno,hoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahno,hugqhoejhqjpnsjhoeuohnohpex yq
uaajfohentkhEjhqnqhgxohzugohoxhuplhejshzeuohoejcheuqhijjghouylngbhxa,
i ohejhexmjqhoeuohpejhzx yqhojyyhenthpxtjoengbhxahejshxzghuffxsqkhI o
pejhxgychpunq:

“Nhuthpxhbyuqhcx hynljhQxyyckhCx hqx,hqxg’ohcx ?”

“Xe,hN’rjhlgxzghejshuhyxgbhzenyj,hcx hlgxzkhPej’phrjschbxxq-ejusojq,hN
p mmxpj,h_tunphjvfjppnrjtjgohojssj-à-ojssjk_hPonyy,hN’thrjschbyuqhox
pjjhejsk”

EjhoxxlhUggu’pheugqhugqhyxxljqhngw nsngbychngoxhejshjcjpk

Tnpngojsmsjongbhoejhyxxl,hpejhptnyjqhoxhentkhGjvohtxsgngb,hnghpmnojhxa
oejhmsxojpophxahejshexpop,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhmsjmusjqhaxshejshextjzusq
.x sgjckhYjrng’phfxufetug,hnghenphichgxhtjugphgjzhfxuohugqhpeuiicheuo,
znoehenphnyy-tuofejqhexspjphugqhenphfxufehznoehoejhmuofejqht q-b usqp,
qsxrjhznoehbyxxtchqjojstnguonxghngoxhoejhfxrjsjqhbsurjyhummsxufek

QuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhqnpynljqhoulngbhyjurjhxahMsngfjpphRusrusuhugqhoej
bjgoyjtjghxahoejhmusockhUaojshuhquchpmjgohoxbjoejs,hixoehpejhugqhejs
expophzjsjhqnpongfoychuzusjhoeuohoejchqnqhgxohbjohxghoxbjoejs,hugqhoeuo
nohzuphijoojshaxshoejthgxohoxhtjjokhXgychUgguhzuphpuqkhPejhlgjzhoeuo
gxz,hasxthQxyyc’phqjmuso sj,hgxhxgjhubunghzx yqhponsh mhznoenghejshpx y
oejhajjyngbphoeuoheuqhijjghsx pjqhichoejnshfxgrjspuonxgkhNohe sohejshox
ponsh mhoejpjhajjyngbp,hi ohcjohpejhlgjzhoeuohoeuohzuphoejhijpohmusohxa
ejshpx y,hugqhoeuohoeuohmusohxahejshpx yhzx yqhw nflychijhptxoejsjqhng
oejhynajhpejhzuphyjuqngbk

Uphpejhqsxrjhx ohngoxhoejhxmjghfx gosc,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguheuqhu
qjynbeoa yhpjgpjhxahsjynja,hugqhpejhajyohojtmojqhoxhuplhoejhozxhtjghexz
oejcheuqhynljqhijngbhuohRsxgplc’p,hzejghp qqjgychoejhfxufetug,hMenynm,
jvmsjppjqhentpjyah gupljq:

“Sxyyngbhnghzjuyoehoejchtuchij,hi ohoesjjhmxophxahxuophzuphuyyhoejc
burjh pkhJrjscoengbhfyjusjqh mhonyyhoejsjhzupg’ohuhbsunghyjaohic
fxflfsxzkhZeuohusjhoesjjhmxop?hUhtjsjhtx oea y!hUgqhxuophgxzhqxzghox
axsoc-anrjhlxmjflpkhUohx shmyufj,hgxhajus,huyyhfxtjsphtucheurjhupht fe
uphoejchfughjuok”

“Oejhtupojs’phuhpfsjz,”hm ohnghoejhfx gongb-ex pjhfyjslk

“Zjyy,hqnqhcx hynljhoejnshexspjp?”hupljqhQxyyck

“Oejhexspjp!—oejsj’phgxhozxhxmngnxgphuix ohoejtkhUgqhoejhaxxqhzuphbxxqk
I ohnohpjjtjqhoxhtjhpxsohxahqsjuschoejsj,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgukhNhqxg’o
lgxzhzeuohcx hoex beo,”hejhpunq,ho sgngbhenpheugqpxtj,hbxxq-guo sjq
aufjhoxhejsk

“Nhoex beohpxhoxxkhZjyy,hpeuyyhzjhbjohextjhichjrjgngb?”

“Je,hzjht po!”

Xghsjufengbhextjhugqhangqngbhjrjscxgjhjgonsjychpuonpaufoxschugq
musonf yusychfeustngb,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhijbughznoehbsjuohynrjyngjpp
ojyyngbhoejthexzhpejheuqhussnrjq,hexzhzustychoejcheuqhsjfjnrjqhejs,hxa
oejhy v schugqhbxxqhoupojhnghzenfehoejhRsxgplcphynrjq,hugqhxahoejns
sjfsjuonxgp,hugqhpejhzx yqhgxohuyyxzhuhzxsqhoxhijhpunqhubungpohoejtk

“XgjheuphoxhlgxzhUgguhugqhRsxgplc—Nheurjhbxohoxhlgxzhenthijoojshgxz—ox
pjjhexzhgnfjhoejchusj,hugqhexzhox fengb,”hpejhpunq,hpmjulngbhgxzhznoe
mjsajfohpngfjsnoc,hugqhaxsbjoongbhoejhrub jhajjyngbhxahqnppuonpaufonxg
ugqhuzlzusqgjpphpejheuqhjvmjsnjgfjqhoejsjk


Feumojsh25

RsxgplchugqhUgguhpmjgohoejhzexyjhp ttjshugqhmusohxahoejhzngojshnghoej
fx gosc,hynrngbhngh. pohoejhputjhfxgqnonxg,hugqhponyyhoulngbhgxhpojmp
oxhxiounghuhqnrxsfjkhNohzuphugh gqjspoxxqhoengbhijozjjghoejthoeuohoejc
pex yqhgxohbxhuzuchugczejsj;hi ohixoehajyo,hoejhyxgbjshoejchynrjq
uyxgj,hjpmjfnuyychnghoejhu o tg,hznoex ohb jpophnghoejhex pj,hoeuohoejc
fx yqhgxohpougqhoenphjvnpojgfj,hugqhoeuohoejchzx yqheurjhoxhuyojshnok

Oejnshynajhzuphummusjgoychp fehoeuohgxoengbhijoojshfx yqhijhqjpnsjqk
Oejcheuqhoejha yyjpohui gqugfjhxahjrjscoengb;hoejcheuqhuhfenyq,hugq
ixoeheuqhxff muonxgkhUgguhqjrxojqh. pohupht fehfusjhoxhejshummjusugfj
zejghoejcheuqhgxhrnpnoxsp,hugqhpejhqnqhuhbsjuohqjuyhxahsjuqngb,hixoehxa
gxrjyphugqhxahzeuohpjsnx phynojsuo sjhzuphnghaupenxgkhPejhxsqjsjqhuyy
oejhixxlphoeuohzjsjhmsunpjqhnghoejhaxsjnbghmumjsphugqhsjrnjzphpej
sjfjnrjq,hugqhsjuqhoejthznoehoeuohfxgfjgosuojqhuoojgonxghzenfehnphxgyc
bnrjghoxhzeuohnphsjuqhnghpjfy pnxgkhTxsjxrjs,hjrjschp i.jfohoeuohzuphxa
ngojsjpohoxhRsxgplc,hpejhpo qnjqhnghixxlphugqhpmjfnuyh.x sguyp,hpxhoeuo
ejhxaojghzjgohposunbeohoxhejshznoehw jponxgphsjyuongbhoxhubsnf yo sjhxs
usfenojfo sj,hpxtjontjphjrjghznoehw jponxgphsjyuongbhoxhexspj-isjjqngb
xshpmxsokhEjhzuphutudjqhuohejshlgxzyjqbj,hejshtjtxsc,hugqhuohanspohzup
qnpmxpjqhoxhqx iohno,hoxhuplhaxshfxganstuonxghxahejshaufop;hugqhpej
zx yqhangqhzeuohejhupljqhaxshnghpxtjhixxl,hugqhpexzhnohoxhentk

Oejhi nyqngbhxahoejhexpmnouy,hoxx,hngojsjpojqhejskhPejhqnqhgxohtjsjyc
uppnpo,hi ohmyuggjqhugqhp bbjpojqhuhbsjuohqjuyhejspjyakhI ohejshfenja
oex beohzuphponyyhxahejspjya—exzhaushpejhzuphqjushoxhRsxgplc,hexzhaus
pejhfx yqhtuljh mhoxhenthaxshuyyhejheuqhbnrjgh mkhRsxgplchummsjfnuojq
oenphqjpnsjhgxohxgychoxhmyjupj,hi ohoxhpjsrjhent,hzenfeheuqhijfxtjhoej
pxyjhunthxahejshjvnpojgfj,hi ohuohoejhputjhontjhejhzjusnjqhxahoej
yxrngbhpgusjphnghzenfehpejhosnjqhoxhexyqhenthaupokhUphontjhzjgohxg,hugq
ejhpuzhentpjyahtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojghejyqhaupohnghoejpjhpgusjp,hejheuqhug
jrjshbsxzngbhqjpnsj,hgxohpxht fehoxhjpfumjhasxthoejt,huphoxhoschzejoejs
oejchengqjsjqhenphasjjqxtkhEuqhnohgxohijjghaxshoenphbsxzngbhqjpnsjhox
ijhasjj,hgxohoxheurjhpfjgjphjrjschontjhejhzugojqhoxhbxhoxhoejhoxzghoxhu
tjjongbhxshuhsufj,hRsxgplchzx yqheurjhijjghmjsajfoychpuonpanjqhznoehenp
ynajkhOejhsôyjhejheuqhouljgh m,hoejhsôyjhxahuhzjuyoechyugqxzgjs,hxgjhxa
oeuohfyupphzenfehx beohoxhijhoejhrjschejusohxahoejhS ppnughusnpoxfsufc,
zuphjgonsjychoxhenphoupoj;hugqhgxz,huaojshpmjgqngbhpnvhtxgoephnghoeuo
feusufojs,hejhqjsnrjqhjrjghbsjuojshpuonpaufonxghasxthnokhUgqhenp
tugubjtjgohxahenphjpouoj,hzenfehxff mnjqhugqhuipxsijqhenthtxsjhugq
txsj,hzuphtxpohp ffjppa ykhNghpmnojhxahoejhnttjgpjhp tphfxpohenthichoej
expmnouy,hichtufengjsc,hichfxzphxsqjsjqhasxthPznodjsyugq,hugqhtugc
xoejshoengbp,hejhzuphfxgrngfjqhoeuohejhzuphgxohzupongb,hi ohngfsjupngb
enphp ipougfjkhNghuyyhtuoojsphuaajfongbhngfxtj,hoejhpuyjphxahontijs,
zejuo,hugqhzxxy,hoejhyjoongbhxahyugqp,hRsxgplchzupheusqhuphuhsxfl,hugq
lgjzhzjyyhexzhoxhljjmh mhmsnfjpkhNghuyyhxmjsuonxgphxghuhyusbjhpfuyjhxg
oenphugqhenphxoejshjpouojp,hejhljmohoxhoejhpntmyjpohtjoexqphngrxyrngb
gxhsnpl,hugqhnghosnayngbhqjounyphejhzuphfusja yhugqhjvufongbhoxhug
jvosjtjhqjbsjjkhNghpmnojhxahuyyhoejhf ggngbhugqhngbjg nochxahoejhBjstug
pojzusq,hzexhzx yqhoschoxhojtmohenthngoxhm sfeupjphichtulngbhenp
xsnbnguyhjpontuojhuyzucphaushyusbjshoeughsjuyychsjw nsjq,hugqhoejg
sjmsjpjgongbhoxhRsxgplchoeuohejhtnbeohbjohoejhoengbhfejumjs,hugqhpx
tuljhuhmsxano,hRsxgplchqnqhgxohbnrjhngkhEjhynpojgjqhoxhenphpojzusq,
fsxpp-jvutngjqhent,hugqhxgychubsjjqhoxhenphp bbjponxgphzejghoej
ntmyjtjgohoxhijhxsqjsjqhxshfxgpos fojqhzuphoejhrjschgjzjpo,hgxohcjo
lgxzghnghS ppnu,hugqhynljychoxhjvfnojhzxgqjskhUmusohasxthp fe
jvfjmonxgp,hejhsjpxyrjqh mxghughngfsjupjqhx oyuchxgychzejsjhoejsjhzuphu
p smy p,hugqhnghtulngbhp fehughx oyuchejhzjgohngoxhoejhtng ojpo
qjounyp,hugqhngpnpojqhxghbjoongbhoejhrjschijpohaxshenphtxgjc;hpxhoeuo
ichoejhtjoexqhxghzenfehejhtugubjqhenphuaaunsp,hnohzuphfyjushoeuohejhzup
gxohzupongb,hi ohngfsjupngbhenphp ipougfjk

NghXfoxijshoejsjhzjsjhoejhmsxrngfnuyhjyjfonxgphnghoejhLupengplc
msxrngfj,hzejsjhzjsjhoejhjpouojphxahRsxgplc,hPrnudeplc,hLxdgnpejr,
Xiyxgplc,hugqhuhptuyyhmusohxahYjrng’phyugqk

Oejpjhjyjfonxgphzjsjhuoosufongbhm iynfhuoojgonxghasxthpjrjsuy
fnsf tpougfjphfxggjfojqhznoehoejt,hugqhuypxhasxthoejhmjxmyjhoulngbhmuso
nghoejtkhOejsjheuqhijjghuhbsjuohqjuyhxahouylhuix ohoejt,hugqhbsjuo
msjmusuonxgphzjsjhijngbhtuqjhaxshoejtkhMjspxgphzexhgjrjshuoojgqjqhoej
jyjfonxgphzjsjhfxtngbhasxthTxpfxz,hasxthMjojspi sb,hugqhasxthuisxuqhox
uoojgqhoejpjkhRsxgplcheuqhyxgbhijaxsjhmsxtnpjqhPrnudeplchoxhbxhoxhoejtk
IjaxsjhoejhjyjfonxgphPrnudeplc,hzexhxaojghrnpnojqhRxdqrndejgplxj,hqsxrj
xrjshoxhajofehRsxgplckhXghoejhquchijaxsjhoejsjheuqhijjghuytxpohu
w ussjyhijozjjghRsxgplchugqhUgguhxrjshoenphmsxmxpjqhjvmjqnonxgkhNohzup
oejhrjschq yyjpohu o tghzjuoejs,hzenfehnphpxhqsjuschnghoejhfx gosc,hugq
px,hmsjmusngbhentpjyahaxshuhpos bbyj,hRsxgplc,hznoehuheusqhugqhfxyq
jvmsjppnxg,hngaxstjqhUgguhxahenphqjmuso sjhuphejheuqhgjrjshpmxljghox
ejshijaxsjkhI o,hoxhenphp smsnpj,hUgguhuffjmojqhoejhngaxstuonxghznoe
bsjuohfxtmxp sj,hugqhtjsjychupljqhzejghejhzx yqhijhiuflkhEjhyxxljq
ngojgoychuohejs,huohuhyxpphoxhjvmyunghoenphfxtmxp sjkhPejhptnyjqhuohenp
yxxlkhEjhlgjzhoeuohzuchpejheuqhxahznoeqsuzngbhngoxhejspjya,hugqhlgjz
oeuohnohxgycheummjgjqhzejghpejheuqhqjojstngjqh mxghpxtjoengbhznoex o
yjoongbhenthlgxzhejshmyugpkhEjhzuphuasunqhxahoenp;hi ohejhzuphpx
ugvnx phoxhurxnqhuhpfjgjhoeuohejhljmoh mhummjusugfjp,hugqheuya
pngfjsjychijynjrjqhnghzeuohejhyxgbjqhoxhijynjrjhng—ejshsjupxguiyjgjppk

“Nhexmjhcx hzxg’ohijhq yy?”

“Nhexmjhgxo,”hpunqhUggukh“Nhbxohuhixvhxahixxlphcjpojsquchasxt
Bu onjs’pkhGx,hNhpeug’ohijhq yyk”

“Pej’phoscngbhoxhouljhoeuohoxgj,hugqhpxht fehoejhijoojs,”hejhoex beo,
“xshjypjhnohzx yqhijhoejhputjhoengbhxrjshugqhxrjshubungk”

Ugqhejhpjohxaahaxshoejhjyjfonxgphznoex ohummjuyngbhoxhejshaxshuhfugqnq
jvmyuguonxgkhNohzuphoejhanspohontjhpngfjhoejhijbnggngbhxahoejns
ngontufchoeuohejheuqhmusojqhasxthejshznoex ohuha yyhjvmyuguonxgkhAsxt
xgjhmxngohxahrnjzhoenphosx iyjqhent,hi ohxghoejhxoejshpnqjhejhajyohoeuo
nohzuphijoojshpxkh“Uohanspohoejsjhznyyhij,huphoenphontj,hpxtjoengb
 gqjangjqhljmohiufl,hugqhoejghpejhznyyhbjoh pjqhoxhnokhNghugchfupjhN
fughbnrjh mhugcoengbhaxshejs,hi ohgxohtchtupf yngjhngqjmjgqjgfj,”hej
oex beok


Feumojsh26

NghPjmojtijshYjrnghtxrjqhoxhTxpfxzhaxshLnooc’phfxgangjtjgokhEjheuq
pmjgohuhzexyjhtxgoehnghTxpfxzhznoehgxoengbhoxhqx,hzejghPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hzexheuqhmsxmjsochnghoejhLupengplchmsxrngfj,hugqhoxxlhbsjuo
ngojsjpohnghoejhw jponxghxahoejhummsxufengbhjyjfonxgp,htuqjhsjuqchox
pjohxaahoxhoejhjyjfonxgpkhEjhngrnojqhenphisxoejs,hzexheuqhuhrxojhnghoej
Pjyjdgjrplchqnposnfo,hoxhfxtjhznoehentkhYjrngheuq,htxsjxrjs,hox
osugpufohnghLupenghpxtjhjvosjtjychntmxsougohi pngjpphsjyuongbhoxhoej
zusqpenmhxahyugqhugqhoxhoejhsjfjnrngbhxahfjsounghsjqjtmonxghtxgjchaxs
enphpnpojs,hzexhzuphuisxuqk

Yjrnghponyyhejpnouojq,hi ohLnooc,hzexhpuzhoeuohejhzuphixsjqhnghTxpfxz,
ugqh sbjqhenthoxhbx,hxghejshxzghu oexsnochxsqjsjqhenthoejhmsxmjs
gxiyjtug’ph gnaxst,hfxpongbhpjrjghmx gqpkhUgqhoeuohpjrjghmx gqphmunq
axshoejh gnaxsthzuphoejhfenjahfu pjhoeuohanguyychqjfnqjqhYjrnghoxhbxk
EjhzjgohoxhLupengkkkk

YjrngheuqhijjghpnvhqucphnghLupeng,hrnpnongbhoejhuppjtiychjufehquc,hugq
i pnychjgbubjqhuix ohenphpnpojs’phi pngjpp,hzenfehponyyhqsubbjqhxgkhOej
qnposnfohtuspeuyphxahgxinynochzjsjhuyyhxff mnjqhznoehoejhjyjfonxgp,hugq
nohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhbjohoejhpntmyjpohoengbhqxgjhoeuohqjmjgqjqh mxghoej
fx sohxahzusqpenmkhOejhxoejshtuoojs,hoejhmuctjgohxahoejhp tphq j,hzup
tjohoxxhichqnaanf yonjpkhUaojshyxgbhgjbxonuonxgphxrjshoejhyjbuy
qjounyp,hoejhtxgjchzuphuohyupohsjuqchoxhijhmunq;hi ohoejhgxousc,huhtxpo
xiynbngbhmjspxg,hfx yqhgxoheugqhxrjshoejhxsqjs,hijfu pjhnoht poheurj
oejhpnbguo sjhxahoejhmsjpnqjgo,hugqhoejhmsjpnqjgo,hoex behejheuqhgxo
bnrjghxrjshenphq onjphoxhuhqjm oc,hzuphuohoejhjyjfonxgpkhUyyhoejpj
zxsscngbhgjbxonuonxgp,hoenphjgqyjpphbxngbhasxthmyufjhoxhmyufj,hugq
ouylngbhznoehmyjupugohugqhjvfjyyjgohmjxmyj,hzexhw nojhpuzhoej
 gmyjupugogjpphxahoejhmjononxgjs’phmxpnonxg,hi ohzjsjhmxzjsyjpphox
uppnpohent—uyyhoejpjhjaaxsophoeuohcnjyqjqhgxhsjp yo,hyjqhoxhuhajjyngb
xahtnpjschnghYjrnghulnghoxhoejhtxsonacngbhejymyjppgjpphxgjhjvmjsnjgfjp
nghqsjutphzejghxgjhosnjphoxh pjhmecpnfuyhaxsfjkhEjhajyohoenphasjw jgoyc
uphejhouyljqhoxhenphtxpohbxxq-guo sjqhpxynfnoxskhOenphpxynfnoxshqnq,hno
pjjtjq,hjrjscoengbhmxppniyj,hugqhposungjqhjrjschgjsrjhoxhbjohenthx ohxa
enphqnaanf yonjpkh“Nhojyyhcx hzeuohcx htnbeohosc,”hejhpunqhtxsjhoeug
xgfj;h“bxhoxhpx-ugq-pxhugqhpx-ugq-px,”hugqhoejhpxynfnoxshqsjzh mhu
sjb yushmyughaxshbjoongbhsx gqhoejhauouyhmxngohoeuohengqjsjq
jrjscoengbkhI ohejhzx yqhuqqhnttjqnuojyc,h“No’yyhtjughpxtjhqjyuc,
ugczuc,hi ohcx htnbeohoschnok”hUgqhYjrnghqnqhosc,hugqhqnqhbxkhJrjscxgj
zuphlngqhugqhfnrny,hi ohoejhmxngohjruqjqhpjjtjqhoxhfsxmh mhubunghnghoej
jgq,hugqhubunghoxhiushoejhzuckhZeuohzuphmusonf yusychoscngb,hzuphoeuo
Yjrnghfx yqhgxohtuljhx ohznoehzexthejhzuphpos bbyngb,hoxhzexpjhngojsjpo
nohzuphoeuohenphi pngjpphpex yqhgxohijhqxgjkhOeuohgxhxgjhpjjtjqhox
lgxz;hoejhpxynfnoxshfjsoungychqnqhgxohlgxzkhNahYjrnghfx yqheurj
 gqjspoxxqhzec,h. pohuphejhpuzhzechxgjhfughxgychummsxufehoejhixxlngb
xaanfjhxahuhsunyzuchpouonxghnghpngbyjhanyj,hnohzx yqhgxoheurjhijjghpx
rjvuonx phugqhonsjpxtjhoxhentkhI ohznoehoejhengqsugfjphoeuohfxgasxgojq
enthnghenphi pngjpp,hgxhxgjhfx yqhjvmyunghzechoejchjvnpojqk

I ohYjrngheuqhfeugbjqhuhbxxqhqjuyhpngfjhenphtussnubj;hejhzuphmuonjgo,
ugqhnahejhfx yqhgxohpjjhzechnohzuphuyyhussugbjqhynljhoenp,hejhoxyq
entpjyahoeuohejhfx yqhgxoh. qbjhznoex ohlgxzngbhuyyhuix ohno,hugqhoeuo
txpohynljychnoht pohijhpx,hugqhejhosnjqhgxohoxhasjok

Nghuoojgqngbhoejhjyjfonxgp,hoxx,hugqhoulngbhmusohnghoejt,hejhosnjqhgxz
gxohoxh. qbj,hgxohoxhauyyhax yhxahoejt,hi ohoxhfxtmsjejgqhupha yychup
ejhfx yqhoejhw jponxghzenfehzuphpxhjusgjpoychugqhusqjgoychuipxsingb
exgjpohugqhjvfjyyjgohtjghzexthejhsjpmjfojqkhPngfjhenphtussnubjhoejsj
euqhijjghsjrjuyjqhoxhYjrnghpxhtugchgjzhugqhpjsnx phupmjfophxahynajhoeuo
euqhmsjrnx pyc,hoesx behenphasnrxyx phuoono qjhoxhoejt,hpjjtjqhxahgx
ntmxsougfj,hoeuohnghoejhw jponxghxahoejhjyjfonxgphoxxhejhupp tjqhugq
osnjqhoxhangqhpxtjhpjsnx phpnbgnanfugfjk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehjvmyungjqhoxhenthoejhtjugngbhugqhxi.jfohxahoej
msxmxpjqhsjrxy onxghuohoejhjyjfonxgpkhOejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhng
zexpjheugqphoejhyuzheuqhmyufjqhoejhfxgosxyhxahpxhtugchntmxsougohm iynf
a gfonxgp—oejhb usqnugpenmhxahzusqph(oejhrjschqjmusotjgohzenfehzup
bnrngbhYjrnghpxht fehosx iyjh. pohgxz),hoejhqnpmxpuyhxahyusbjhp tp
p ipfsnijqhichoejhgxinynochxahoejhmsxrngfj,hoejhenbehpfexxyp,hajtuyj,
tuyj,hugqhtnynousc,hugqhmxm yushngpos fonxghxghoejhgjzhtxqjy,hugq
anguyyc,hoejhqnposnfohfx gfny—oejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfj,hPgjolxr,hzup
uhgxiyjtughxahoejhxyqhpfexxy,—qnppnmuongbhughnttjgpjhaxso gj,hu
bxxq-ejusojqhtug,hexgjpohuaojshenphxzghaupenxg,hi oh oojsychznoex ohugc
fxtmsjejgpnxghxahoejhgjjqphxahtxqjsghqucpkhEjhuyzucphoxxl,hnghjrjsc
w jponxg,hoejhpnqjhxahoejhgxinynoc;hejhzuphmxpnonrjychugoubxgnponfhox
oejhpmsjuqhxahmxm yushjq fuonxg,hugqhejhp ffjjqjqhnghbnrngbhuhm sjyc
musochfeusufojshoxhoejhqnposnfohfx gfnyhzenfehx beohichsnbeophoxhijhxa
p fehughnttjgpjhntmxsougfjkhZeuohzuphgjjqjqhzuphoxhm ohnghenphmyufjhu
asjpe,hfumuiyj,hmjsajfoychtxqjsghtug,hxahfxgojtmxsuschnqjup,hugqhox
asutjhoejnshmxynfchpxhuphasxthoejhsnbeophfxgajssjqh mxghoejhgxiyjp,hgxo
uphoejhgxinynoc,hi ohuphughjyjtjgohxahoejhqnposnfohfx gfny,hoxhjvosufo
uyyhoejhmxzjsphxahpjya-bxrjsgtjgohoeuohfx yqhmxppniychijhqjsnrjqhasxt
oejtkhNghoejhzjuyoechLupengplchmsxrngfj,hzenfehuyzucphoxxlhoejhyjuqhxa
xoejshmsxrngfjphnghjrjscoengb,hoejsjhzuphgxzhp fehuhmsjmxgqjsugfjhxa
axsfjphoeuohoenphmxynfc,hxgfjhfussnjqhoesx behmsxmjsychoejsj,htnbeo
pjsrjhuphuhtxqjyhaxshxoejshmsxrngfjphaxshuyyhS ppnukhUgqhejgfjhoej
zexyjhw jponxghzuphxahoejhbsjuojpohntmxsougfjkhNohzuphmsxmxpjqhoxhjyjfo
uphtuspeuyhnghmyufjhxahPgjolxrhjnoejshPrnudeplc,hxs,hijoojshponyy,
Gjrcjqxrplc,huhaxstjsh gnrjspnochmsxajppxs,huhtughxahsjtusluiyj
ngojyynbjgfjhugqhuhbsjuohasnjgqhxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

Oejhtjjongbhzuphxmjgjqhichoejhbxrjsgxs,hzexhtuqjhuhpmjjfehoxhoej
gxiyjp,h sbngbhoejthoxhjyjfohoejhm iynfha gfonxgusnjp,hgxohasxthsjbusq
axshmjspxgp,hi ohaxshoejhpjsrnfjhugqhzjyausjhxahoejnshauoejsyugq,hugq
exmngbhoeuohoejhexgxsuiyjhgxinynochxahoejhLupengplchmsxrngfjhzx yq,hup
uohuyyhaxstjshjyjfonxgp,hexyqhoejnshq ochuphpufsjq,hugqhrngqnfuojhoej
jvuyojqhfxganqjgfjhxahoejhtxgusfek

Zejghejheuqhangnpejqhznoehenphpmjjfe,hoejhbxrjsgxshzuyljqhx ohxahoej
euyy,hugqhoejhgxiyjtjghgxnpnychugqhjubjsyc—pxtjhjrjg
jgoe pnuponfuyyc—axyyxzjqhenthugqhoesxgbjqhsx gqhenthzenyjhejhm ohxg
enpha shfxuohugqhfxgrjspjqhutnfuiychznoehoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjk
Yjrng,hugvnx phoxhpjjhngoxhjrjscoengbhugqhgxohoxhtnpphugcoengb,hpoxxq
oejsjhoxxhnghoejhfsxzq,hugqhejusqhoejhbxrjsgxshpuc:h“MyjupjhojyyhTuscu
Nrugxrguhtchznajhnphrjschpxsschpejhfx yqg’ohfxtjhoxhoejhExtjk”hUgq
oejsj mxghoejhgxiyjphnghenbehbxxq-e txshpxsojqhx ohoejnsha shfxuophugq
uyyhqsxrjhxaahoxhoejhfuoejqsuyk

NghoejhfuoejqsuyhYjrng,hynaongbhenpheugqhynljhoejhsjpohugqhsjmjuongb
oejhzxsqphxahoejhusfeqjufxg,hpzxsjhznoehtxpohojssniyjhxuoephoxhqxhuyy
oejhbxrjsgxsheuqhexmjqhoejchzx yqhqxkhFe sfehpjsrnfjphuyzucphuaajfojq
Yjrng,hugqhuphejh oojsjqhoejhzxsqph“Nhlnpphoejhfsxpp,”hugqhbyugfjq
sx gqhuohoejhfsxzqhxahcx gbhugqhxyqhtjghsjmjuongbhoejhputj,hejhajyo
ox fejqk

Xghoejhpjfxgqhugqhoensqhqucphoejsjhzuphi pngjpphsjyuongbhoxhoej
angugfjphxahoejhgxinynochugqhoejhajtuyjhenbehpfexxy,hxahgxhntmxsougfj
zeuojrjs,huphPjsbjchNrugxrnofehjvmyungjq,hugqhYjrng,hi pchpjjngbhuaojs
enphxzghuaaunsp,hqnqhgxohuoojgqhoejhtjjongbpkhXghoejhax soehquchoej
u qnongbhxahoejhtuspeuy’phuffx gophoxxlhmyufjhuohoejhenbehouiyjhxahoej
tuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjkhUgqhoejghoejsjhxff ssjqhoejhanspohplnstnpe
ijozjjghoejhgjzhmusochugqhoejhxyqkhOejhfxttnoojjhzexheuqhijjghqjm ojq
oxhrjsnachoejhuffx gophsjmxsojqhoxhoejhtjjongbhoeuohuyyhzuphnghxsqjsk
Oejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhbxoh m,hoeugljqhoejhgxinynochaxshoejns
fxganqjgfj,hugqhpejqhojuspkhOejhgxiyjphburjhenthuhyx qhzjyfxtj,hugq
pexxlheugqphznoehentkhI ohuohoeuohngpougohuhgxiyjtughxahPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe’phmusochpunqhoeuohejheuqhejusqhoeuohoejhfxttnoojjheuqhgxo
rjsnanjqhoejhuffx gop,hfxgpnqjsngbhp fehuhrjsnanfuonxghughngp yohoxhoej
tuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjkhXgjhxahoejhtjtijsphxahoejhfxttnoojj
ngfu onx pychuqtnoojqhoenpkhOejghuhptuyyhbjgoyjtug,hrjschcx gb-yxxlngb
i ohrjschtuynbgugo,hijbughoxhpuchoeuohnohzx yqhmsxiuiychijhubsjjuiyjhox
oejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhoxhbnrjhughuffx gohxahenphjvmjgqno sjphxa
oejhm iynfhtxgjcp,hugqhoeuohoejhtnpmyufjqhqjynfufchxahoejhtjtijsphxa
oejhfxttnoojjhzuphqjmsnrngbhenthxahoenphtxsuyhpuonpaufonxgkhOejghoej
tjtijsphxahoejhfxttnoojjhosnjqhoxhznoeqsuzhoejnshuqtnppnxg,hugqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehijbughoxhmsxrjhoeuohoejcht pohyxbnfuyychuqtnohjnoejshoeuo
oejcheuqhrjsnanjqhoejhuffx gophxshoeuohoejcheuqhgxo,hugqhejhqjrjyxmjq
oenphqnyjttuhnghqjounykhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphugpzjsjqhichoejhpmxljptug
xahoejhxmmxpnojhmusockhOejghPrnudeplchpmxlj,hugqhoejghoejhtuynbgugo
bjgoyjtughubungkhOejhqnpf ppnxghyupojqhuhyxgbhontjhugqhjgqjqhng
gxoengbkhYjrnghzuphp smsnpjqhoeuohoejchpex yqhqnpm ojh mxghoenphp i.jfo
pxhyxgb,hjpmjfnuyychup,hzejghejhupljqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzejoejshej
p mmxpjqhoeuohtxgjcheuqhijjghtnpummsxmsnuojq,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
ugpzjsjq:

“Xe,hgx!hEj’phughexgjpohtugkhI ohoexpjhxyq-aupenxgjqhtjoexqphxa
muojsguyhautnychussugbjtjgophnghoejhtugubjtjgohxahmsxrngfnuyhuaaunsp
t pohijhisxljghqxzgk”

XghoejhanaoehquchfutjhoejhjyjfonxgphxahoejhqnposnfohtuspeuypkhNohzup
suoejshuhpoxstchquchnghpjrjsuyhqnposnfopkhNghoejhPjyjdgjrplchqnposnfo
Prnudeplchzuphjyjfojqh gugntx pychznoex ohuhiuyyxo,hugqhejhburjhu
qnggjshoeuohjrjgngbk


Feumojsh27

Oejhpnvoehquchzuphanvjqhaxshoejhjyjfonxghxahoejhtuspeuyhxahoej
msxrngfjk

Oejhsxxtp,hyusbjhugqhptuyy,hzjsjha yyhxahgxiyjtjghnghuyyhpxsophxa
 gnaxstpkhTugcheuqhfxtjhxgychaxshoeuohquckhTjghzexheuqhgxohpjjghjufe
xoejshaxshcjusp,hpxtjhasxthoejhFsntju,hpxtjhasxthMjojspi sb,hpxtjhasxt
uisxuq,htjohnghoejhsxxtphxahoejhEuyyhxahGxinynockhOejsjhzupht fe
qnpf ppnxghusx gqhoejhbxrjsgxs’phouiyjh gqjshoejhmxsosunohxahoejhOpusk

Oejhgxiyjp,hixoehnghoejhyusbjshugqhoejhptuyyjshsxxtp,hbsx mjq
oejtpjyrjphnghfutmp,hugqhasxthoejnshexponyjhugqhp pmnfnx phbyugfjp,
asxthoejhpnyjgfjhoeuohajyyh mxghoejthzejghx opnqjsphummsxufejqhuhbsx m,
ugqhasxthoejhzuchoeuohpxtj,hzenpmjsngbhoxbjoejs,hsjosjuojqhoxhoej
ausoejshfxssnqxs,hnohzuphjrnqjgohoeuohjufehpnqjheuqhpjfsjophasxthoej
xoejskhNghummjusugfjhoejhgxiyjtjghzjsjhpeusmychqnrnqjqhngoxhozx
fyuppjp:hoejhxyqhugqhoejhgjzkhOejhxyqhzjsjhaxshoejhtxpohmusohjnoejshng
xyqh gnaxstphxahoejhgxinynoc,hi ooxgjqh mhfyxpjyc,hznoehpm sphugqheuop,
xshnghoejnshxzghpmjfnuyhguruy,hfuruysc,hngaugosc,hxshxaanfnuyh gnaxstpk
Oejh gnaxstphxahoejhxyqjshtjghzjsjhjtisxnqjsjqhnghoejhxyq-aupenxgjqhzuc
znoehjmu yjophxghoejnshpex yqjsp;hoejchzjsjh gtnpouluiychonbeohugq
pexsohnghoejhzunpo,huphoex behoejnshzjusjspheuqhbsxzghx ohxahoejtkhOej
cx gbjshtjghzxsjhoejh gnaxsthxahoejhgxinynochznoehyxgbhzunpophugqhisxuq
pex yqjsp,h gi ooxgjqhxrjshzenojhzunpofxuop,hxsh gnaxstphznoehiyufl
fxyyusphugqhznoehoejhjtisxnqjsjqhiuqbjphxah. ponfjphxahoejhmjufjkhOx
oejhcx gbjshtjghijyxgbjqhoejhfx soh gnaxstphoeuohejsjhugqhoejsj
isnbeojgjqh mhoejhfsxzqk

I ohoejhqnrnpnxghngoxhcx gbhugqhxyqhqnqhgxohfxssjpmxgqhznoehoej
qnrnpnxghxahmusonjpkhPxtjhxahoejhcx gbhtjg,huphYjrnghxipjsrjq,hijyxgbjq
oxhoejhxyqhmusoc;hugqhpxtjhxahoejhrjschxyqjpohgxiyjtjg,hxghoej
fxgosusc,hzjsjhzenpmjsngbhznoehPrnudeplc,hugqhzjsjhjrnqjgoychusqjgo
musonpugphxahoejhgjzhmusock

Yjrnghpoxxqhnghoejhptuyyjshsxxt,hzejsjhoejchzjsjhptxlngbhugqhoulngb
ynbeohsjasjpetjgop,hfyxpjhoxhenphxzghasnjgqp,hugqhynpojgngbhoxhzeuo
oejchzjsjhpucngb,hejhfxgpfnjgonx pychjvjsojqhuyyhenphngojyynbjgfj
oscngbhoxh gqjspougqhzeuohzuphpunqkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphoejhfjgojs
sx gqhzenfehoejhxoejsphbsx mjqhoejtpjyrjpkhEjhzuphynpojgngbhuohoeuo
txtjgohoxhPrnudeplchugqhEyn poxr,hoejhtuspeuyhxahugxoejshqnposnfo,hzex
ijyxgbjqhoxhoejnshmusockhEyn poxrhzx yqhgxohubsjjhoxhbxhznoehenp
qnposnfohoxhuplhPgjolxrhoxhpougq,hzenyjhPrnudeplchzuphmjsp uqngbhenthox
qxhpx,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphummsxrngbhxahoejhmyugkhYjrnghfx yqhgxo
tuljhx ohzechoejhxmmxpnonxghzuphoxhuplhoejhtuspeuyhoxhpougqhzexthoejc
zugojqhoxhp mjspjqjk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexheuqh. pohijjghqsnglngbhugqhoulngbhpxtjhy gfe,
futjh mhoxhoejthnghenph gnaxsthxahuhbjgoyjtughxahoejhijqfeutijs,hznmngb
enphynmphznoehuhmjsa tjqheugqljsfenjahxahixsqjsjqhiuonpojk

“Zjhusjhmyufngbhx shaxsfjp,”hejhpunq,hm yyngbhx ohenphzenpljsp,h“Pjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe!”

Ugqhynpojgngbhoxhoejhfxgrjspuonxg,hejhp mmxsojqhPrnudeplc’phfxgojgonxgk

“Xgjhqnposnfo’phjgx be,hugqhPrnudeplc’phxirnx pychxahoejhxmmxpnonxg,”
ejhpunq,hzxsqphjrnqjgoychngojyynbniyjhoxhuyyhjvfjmohYjrngk

“Zec,hLxpocu,hcx hejsjhoxx!hNhp mmxpjhcx ’sjhfxgrjsojq,hje?”hejhuqqjq,
o sgngbhoxhYjrnghugqhqsuzngbhenphusthoesx behenpkhYjrnghzx yqheurjhijjg
byuqhngqjjqhoxhijhfxgrjsojq,hi ohfx yqhgxohtuljhx ohzeuohoejhmxngohzup,
ugqhsjosjuongbhuhajzhpojmphasxthoejhpmjuljsp,hejhjvmyungjqhoxhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehenphnguinynochoxh gqjspougqhzechoejhtuspeuyhxahoej
msxrngfjhpex yqhijhupljqhoxhpougqk

_“Xhpugfouhpntmynfnoup!”_hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhisnjaychugq
fyjusychejhjvmyungjqhnohoxhYjrngkhNa,huphuohmsjrnx phjyjfonxgp,huyyhoej
qnposnfophupljqhoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhoxhpougq,hoejghejhzx yqhij
jyjfojqhznoex ohuhiuyyxokhOeuoht pohgxohijkhGxzhjnbeohqnposnfopheuq
ubsjjqhoxhfuyyh mxghent:hnahozxhsja pjqhoxhqxhpx,hPgjolxrhtnbeohqjfyngj
oxhpougqhuohuyy;hugqhoejghoejhxyqhmusochtnbeohfexxpjhugxoejshxahoejns
musoc,hzenfehzx yqhoesxzhoejthfxtmyjojychx ohnghoejnshsjflxgngbkhI ohna
xgychxgjhqnposnfo,hPrnudeplc’p,hqnqhgxohfuyyh mxghenthoxhpougq,hPgjolxr
zx yqhyjohentpjyahijhiuyyxojqhaxskhOejchzjsjhjrjg,hpxtjhxahoejt,hbxngb
oxhrxojhaxshent,hugqhm smxpjychoxhyjohenthbjohuhbxxqhtugchrxojp,hpx
oeuohoejhjgjtchtnbeohijhoesxzghxaahoejhpfjgo,hugqhzejghuhfugqnquojhxa
oejhxoejshpnqjhzuphm oh m,hoejchoxxhtnbeohbnrjhenthpxtjhrxojpkhYjrng
 gqjspoxxqhoxhpxtjhjvojgo,hi ohgxoha yyc,hugqhzx yqheurjhm ohuhajzhtxsj
w jponxgp,hzejghp qqjgychjrjscxgjhijbughouylngbhugqhtulngbhuhgxnpjhugq
oejchtxrjqhoxzusqphoejhinbhsxxtk

“Zeuohnphno?hje?hzext?”h“Gxhb usugojj?hzexpj?hzeuo?”h“Oejchzxg’ohmupp
ent?”h“Gxhb usugojj?”h“Oejchzxg’ohyjohAyjsxrhng?”h“Je,hijfu pjhxahoej
feusbjhubungpohent?”h“Zec,huohoenphsuoj,hoejchzxg’ohuqtnohugcxgjkhNo’p
uhpzngqyj!”h“Oejhyuz!”hYjrnghejusqhjvfyutuonxgphxghuyyhpnqjp,hugqhej
txrjqhngoxhoejhinbhsxxthoxbjoejshznoehoejhxoejsp,huyyhe sscngb
pxtjzejsjhugqhuasunqhxahtnppngbhpxtjoengbkhPw jjdjqhichoejhfsxzqngb
gxiyjtjg,hejhqsjzhgjushoejhenbehouiyjhzejsjhoejhtuspeuyhxahoej
msxrngfj,hPrnudeplc,hugqhoejhxoejshyjuqjsphzjsjhexoychqnpm ongbhuix o
pxtjoengbk


Feumojsh28

YjrnghzuphpougqngbhsuoejshaushxaakhUhgxiyjtughisjuoengbhejurnychugq
exuspjychuohenphpnqj,hugqhugxoejshzexpjhoenflhixxophzjsjhfsjulngb,
msjrjgojqhenthasxthejusngbhqnpongfoyckhEjhfx yqhxgychejushoejhpxao
rxnfjhxahoejhtuspeuyhaungoyc,hoejghoejhpesnyyhrxnfjhxahoejhtuynbgugo
bjgoyjtug,hugqhoejghoejhrxnfjhxahPrnudeplckhOejchzjsjhqnpm ongb,huphaus
uphejhfx yqhtuljhx o,huphoxhoejhngojsmsjouonxghoxhijhm ohxghoejhufohugq
oejhjvufohtjugngbhxahoejhzxsqp:h“ynuiyjhoxhijhfuyyjqh mhaxshosnuyk”

OejhfsxzqhmusojqhoxhtuljhzuchaxshPjsbjchNrugxrnofehummsxufengbhoej
ouiyjkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzunongbhonyyhoejhtuynbgugohbjgoyjtugheuq
angnpejqhpmjulngb,hpunqhoeuohejhoex beohoejhijpohpxy onxghzx yqhijhox
sjajshoxhoejhufohnopjya,hugqhupljqhoejhpjfsjouschoxhangqhoejhufokhOej
ufohpunqhoeuohnghfupjhxahqnaajsjgfjhxahxmngnxg,hoejsjht pohijhuhiuyyxok

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehsjuqhoejhufohugqhijbughoxhjvmyunghnophtjugngb,hi ohuo
oeuohmxngohuhouyy,hpox o,hsx gq-pex yqjsjqhyugqxzgjs,hznoehqcjq
zenpljsp,hnghuhonbeoh gnaxsthoeuohf ohoejhiuflhxahenphgjfl,hngojss mojq
entkhEjhzjgoh mhoxhoejhouiyj,hugqhposnlngbhnohznoehenphangbjshsngb,hej
pex ojqhyx qyc:h“Uhiuyyxo!hM ohnohoxhoejhrxoj!hGxhgjjqhaxshtxsj
ouylngb!”hOejghpjrjsuyhrxnfjphijbughoxhouylhuyyhuohxgfj,hugqhoejhouyy
gxiyjtughznoehoejhsngb,hbjoongbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhjvupmjsuojq,hpex ojqhtxsj
ugqhtxsjhyx qyckhI ohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhtuljhx ohzeuohejhpunqk

Ejhzuphpex ongbhaxshoejhrjschfx spjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhmsxmxpjq;hi o
nohzuphjrnqjgohoeuohejheuojqhenthugqhuyyhenphmusoc,hugqhoenphajjyngbhxa
euosjqhpmsjuqhoesx behoejhzexyjhmusochugqhsx pjqhnghxmmxpnonxghoxhno
oejhputjhrngqnfonrjgjpp,hoex behnghuhtxsjhpjjtychaxst,hxghoejhxoejs
pnqjkhPex ophzjsjhsunpjq,hugqhaxshuhtxtjgohuyyhzuphfxga pnxg,hpxhoeuo
oejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjheuqhoxhfuyyhaxshxsqjsk

“Uhiuyyxo!hUhiuyyxo!hJrjschgxiyjtughpjjphno!hZjhpejqhx shiyxxqhaxshx s
fx gosc!kkkhOejhfxganqjgfjhxahoejhtxgusfekkkkhGxhfejflngbhoejhuffx gop
xahoejhtuspeuy;hej’phgxohuhfupenjskkkkhI ohoeuo’phgxohoejhmxngokkkk
Rxojp,hmyjupj!hIjupoyc!kkk”hpex ojqha snx phugqhrnxyjgohrxnfjphxghuyy
pnqjpkhYxxlphugqhaufjphzjsjhjrjghtxsjhrnxyjgohugqha snx phoeughoejns
zxsqpkhOejchjvmsjppjqhoejhtxpohntmyufuiyjheuosjqkhYjrnghqnqhgxohnghoej
yjupoh gqjspougqhzeuohzuphoejhtuoojs,hugqhejhtusrjyjqhuohoejhmuppnxg
znoehzenfehnohzuphqnpm ojqhzejoejshxshgxohoejhqjfnpnxghuix ohAyjsxr
pex yqhijhm ohoxhoejhrxojkhEjhaxsbxo,huphPjsbjchNrugxrnofehjvmyungjqhox
enthuaojszusqp,hoenphpcyyxbnpt:hoeuohnohzuphgjfjppuschaxshoejhm iynf
bxxqhoxhbjohsnqhxahoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfj;hoeuohoxhbjohsnqhxahoej
tuspeuyhnohzuphgjfjppuschoxheurjhuhtu.xsnochxahrxojp;hoeuohoxhbjohu
tu.xsnochxahrxojphnohzuphgjfjppuschoxhpjf sjhAyjsxr’phsnbeohoxhrxoj;
oeuohoxhpjf sjhoejhsjfxbgnonxghxahAyjsxr’phsnbeohoxhrxojhoejcht po
qjfnqjhxghoejhngojsmsjouonxghoxhijhm ohxghoejhufok

“Ugqhxgjhrxojhtuchqjfnqjhoejhzexyjhw jponxg,hugqhxgjht pohijhpjsnx p
ugqhfxgpjf onrj,hnahxgjhzugophoxhijhxah pjhnghm iynfhynaj,”hfxgfy qjq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofekhI ohYjrnghaxsbxohuyyhoeuo,hugqhnohzuphmunga yhoxhent
oxhpjjhuyyhoejpjhjvfjyyjgohmjspxgp,haxshzexthejheuqhuhsjpmjfo,hnghp fe
ugh gmyjupugohugqhrnfnx phpouojhxahjvfnojtjgokhOxhjpfumjhasxthoenp
munga yhajjyngbhejhzjgohuzuchngoxhoejhxoejshsxxthzejsjhoejsjhzuphgxixqc
jvfjmohoejhzunojsphuohoejhsjasjpetjgohiuskhPjjngbhoejhzunojsphi pchxrjs
zupengbh mhoejhfsxfljschugqhpjoongbhnghxsqjshoejnshmyuojphugq
zngj-byuppjp,hpjjngbhoejnshfuythugqhfejjsa yhaufjp,hYjrnghajyohug
 gjvmjfojqhpjgpjhxahsjynjahuphoex behejheuqhfxtjhx ohxahuhpo aachsxxt
ngoxhoejhasjpehunskhEjhijbughzuylngbh mhugqhqxzg,hyxxlngbhznoehmyjup sj
uohoejhzunojspkhEjhmusonf yusychynljqhoejhzuchxgjhbsuc-zenpljsjq
zunojs,hzexhpexzjqhenphpfxsghaxshoejhxoejshcx gbjshxgjphugqhzuph.jjsjq
uohichoejt,hzuphojufengbhoejthexzhoxhaxyqh mhgumlngphmsxmjsyckhYjrng
zuph. pohuix ohoxhjgojshngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhxyqhzunojs,hzejghoej
pjfsjouschxahoejhfx sohxahzusqpenm,huhynooyjhxyqhtughzexpjhpmjfnuyochno
zuphoxhlgxzhuyyhoejhgxiyjtjghxahoejhmsxrngfjhichgutjhugqhmuosxgctnf,
qsjzhenthuzuck

“Myjupjhfxtj,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”hejhpunq,h“cx shisxoejs’p
yxxlngbhaxshcx khOejchusjhrxongbhxghoejhyjbuyhmxngok”

Yjrnghzuyljqhngoxhoejhsxxt,hsjfjnrjqhuhzenojhiuyy,hugqhaxyyxzjqhenp
isxoejs,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hoxhoejhouiyjhzejsjhPrnudeplchzuphpougqngb
znoehuhpnbgnanfugohugqhnsxgnfuyhaufj,hexyqngbhenphijusqhnghenphanpohugq
pgnaangbhuohnokhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehm ohenpheugqhngoxhoejhixv,hm ohoej
iuyyhpxtjzejsj,hugqhtulngbhsxxthaxshYjrng,hpoxmmjqkhYjrnghuqrugfjq,hi o
 oojsychaxsbjoongbhzeuohejhzuphoxhqx,hugqht fehjtiussuppjq,hejho sgjq
oxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehznoehoejhw jponxg,h“ZejsjhuthNhoxhm ohno?”hEj
upljqhoenphpxaoyc,huohuhtxtjgohzejghoejsjhzuphouylngbhbxngbhxghgjus,hpx
oeuohejheuqhexmjqhenphw jponxghzx yqhgxohijhxrjsejusqkhI ohoejhmjspxgp
pmjulngbhmu pjq,hugqhenphntmsxmjshw jponxghzuphxrjsejusqkhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehasxzgjqk

“Oeuohnphuhtuoojshaxshjufehtug’phxzghqjfnpnxg,”hejhpunqhpjrjsjyck

PjrjsuyhmjxmyjhptnyjqkhYjrnghfsntpxgjq,he ssnjqychoes pohenpheugqh gqjs
oejhfyxoe,hugqhm ohoejhiuyyhoxhoejhsnbeohuphnohzuphnghenphsnbeoheugqk
Eurngbhm ohnohng,hejhsjfxyyjfojqhoeuohejhx beohoxheurjhoes pohenphyjao
eugqhoxx,hugqhpxhejhoes pohnohnghoex behoxxhyuoj,hugq,hponyyhtxsj
xrjsfxtjhznoehfxga pnxg,hejhijuohuheupochsjosjuohngoxhoejhiuflbsx gqk

“Uhe gqsjqhugqhozjgoc-pnvhaxshuqtnppnxg!hGngjoc-jnbeohubungpo!”hpugb
x ohoejhrxnfjhxahoejhpjfsjousc,hzexhfx yqhgxohmsxgx gfjhoejhyjoojsh_s_k
Oejghoejsjhzuphuhyu be;huhi ooxghugqhozxhg ophzjsjhax gqhnghoejhixvk
Oejhgxiyjtughzuphuyyxzjqhoejhsnbeohoxhrxoj,hugqhoejhgjzhmusocheuq
fxgw jsjqk

I ohoejhxyqhmusochqnqhgxohfxgpnqjshoejtpjyrjphfxgw jsjqkhYjrnghejusq
oeuohoejchzjsjhuplngbhPgjolxrhoxhpougq,hugqhejhpuzhoeuohuhfsxzqhxa
gxiyjtjghzuphp ssx gqngbhoejhtuspeuy,hzexhzuphpucngbhpxtjoengbkhYjrng
zjgohgjusjskhNghsjmychPgjolxrhpmxljhxahoejhos pohoejhgxiyjtjghxahoej
msxrngfjheuqhmyufjqhnghent,hoejhuaajfonxghoejcheuqhpexzghent,hzenfehej
qnqhgxohqjpjsrj,huphenphxgychtjsnoheuqhijjghenphuooufetjgohoxhoej
gxinynoc,hoxhzexthejheuqhqjrxojqhozjyrjhcjusphxahpjsrnfjkhPjrjsuyhontjp
ejhsjmjuojqhoejhzxsqp:h“Nheurjhpjsrjqhoxhoejhijpohxahtchmxzjsphznoe
os oehugqhbxxqhaunoe,hNhruy jhcx shbxxqgjpphugqhoeuglhcx ,”hugq
p qqjgychejhpoxmmjqhpexsohasxthoejhojusphoeuohfexljqhent,hugqhzjgohx o
xahoejhsxxtkhZejoejshoejpjhojusphfutjhasxthuhpjgpjhxahoejhng. ponfj
ijngbhqxgjhent,hasxthenphyxrjhaxshoejhgxinynoc,hxshasxthoejhposunghxa
oejhmxpnonxghejhzuphmyufjqhng,hajjyngbhentpjyahp ssx gqjqhichjgjtnjp,
enphjtxonxghngajfojqhoejhuppjtiyc,hoejhtu.xsnochzjsjhox fejq,hugqhYjrng
ajyohuhojgqjsgjpphaxshPgjolxrk

Nghoejhqxxszuchoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjh.xpoyjqhubungpohYjrngk

“Ijbhmusqxg,hjvf pjhtj,hmyjupj,”hejhpunqhuphoxhuhposugbjs,hi o
sjfxbgndngbhYjrng,hejhptnyjqhontnqyckhNohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohejhzx yq
eurjhynljqhoxhpuchpxtjoengb,hi ohfx yqhgxohpmjulhaxshjtxonxgkhEnphaufj
ugqhenphzexyjhanb sjhnghenph gnaxsthznoehoejhfsxppjp,hugqhzenoj
osx pjsphposnmjqhznoehisunq,huphejhtxrjqhe ssnjqychuyxgb,hsjtngqjq
Yjrnghxahpxtjhe gojqhijupohzexhpjjphoeuohejhnphnghjrnyhfupjkhOenp
jvmsjppnxghnghoejhtuspeuy’phaufjhzuphmusonf yusychox fengbhoxhYjrng,
ijfu pj,hxgychoejhquchijaxsj,hejheuqhijjghuohenphex pjhuix ohenp
os pojjhi pngjpphugqheuqhpjjghenthnghuyyhenphbsugqj s,huhlngq-ejusojq,
auoejsychtugkhOejhinbhex pjhznoehoejhxyqhautnycha sgno sj;hoejhsuoejs
qnsoc,haushasxthpocynpe,hi ohsjpmjfoa yhaxxotjg,h gtnpouluiychxyqhex pj
pjsaphzexheuqhpo flhoxhoejnshtupojs;hoejhpox o,hbxxq-guo sjqhznajhnghu
fumhznoehyufjhugqhuhO slnpehpeuzy,hmjoongbhejshmsjoochbsugqfenyq,hejs
qu beojs’phqu beojs;hoejhcx gbhpxg,huhpnvoehaxsthenbehpfexxyhixc,
fxtngbhextjhasxthpfexxy,hugqhbsjjongbhenphauoejs,hlnppngbhenphinbheugq;
oejhbjg ngj,hfxsqnuyhzxsqphugqhbjpo sjphxahoejhxyqhtug—uyyhoenpheuqhoej
quchijaxsjhsx pjqhughngpongfonrjhajjyngbhxahsjpmjfohugqhpctmuoechng
YjrngkhOenphxyqhtughzuphuhox fengbhugqhmuoejonfhanb sjhoxhYjrnghgxz,
ugqhejhyxgbjqhoxhpuchpxtjoengbhmyjupugohoxhentk

“Pxhcx ’sjhp sjhoxhijhx shtuspeuyhubung,”hejhpunqk

“No’phgxohynljyc,”hpunqhoejhtuspeuy,hyxxlngbhsx gqhznoehuhpfusjq
jvmsjppnxgkh“N’thzxsghx o,hN’thxyqkhNahoejsjhusjhtjghcx gbjshugqhtxsj
qjpjsrngbhoeughN,hyjohoejthpjsrjk”

Ugqhoejhtuspeuyhqnpummjusjqhoesx behuhpnqjhqxxsk

OejhtxpohpxyjtghtxtjgohzuphuoheugqkhOejchzjsjhoxhmsxfjjqhnttjqnuojychox
oejhjyjfonxgkhOejhyjuqjsphxahixoehmusonjphzjsjhsjflxgngbhzenojhugq
iyuflhxghoejnshangbjspk

Oejhqnpf ppnxgh mxghAyjsxrheuqhbnrjghoejhgjzhmusochgxohxgychAyjsxr’p
rxoj,hi oheuqhuypxhbungjqhontjhaxshoejt,hpxhoeuohoejchfx yqhpjgqhox
ajofehoesjjhgxiyjtjghzexheuqhijjghsjgqjsjqh guiyjhoxhouljhmusohnghoej
jyjfonxgphichoejhznyjphxahoejhxoejshmusockhOzxhgxiyjhbjgoyjtjg,hzexheuq
uhzjulgjpphaxshposxgbhqsngl,heuqhijjghtuqjhqs glhichoejhmusonpugphxa
Pgjolxr,hugqhuhoensqheuqhijjghsxiijqhxahenph gnaxstk

Xghyjusgngbhoenp,hoejhgjzhmusocheuqhtuqjheupoj,hq sngbhoejhqnpm oj
uix ohAyjsxr,hoxhpjgqhpxtjhxahoejnshtjghnghuhpyjqbjhoxhfyxoejhoej
posnmmjqhbjgoyjtug,hugqhoxhisngbhuyxgbhxgjhxahoejhngoxvnfuojqhoxhoej
tjjongbk

“N’rjhisx beohxgj,hqsjgfejqhenthznoehzuojs,”hpunqhoejhyugqxzgjs,hzex
euqhbxgjhxghoenphjssugq,hoxhPrnudeplckh“Ej’phuyyhsnbeo?hej’yyhqxk”

“Gxohoxxhqs gl,hejhzxg’ohauyyhqxzg?”hpunqhPrnudeplc,hpeulngbhenphejuqk

“Gx,hej’phanspo-suojkhNahxgychoejchqxg’ohbnrjhenthugchtxsjhejsjkkkk
N’rjhoxyqhoejhzunojshgxohoxhbnrjhenthugcoengbhxghugchuffx gok”


Feumojsh29

Oejhgussxzhsxxt,hnghzenfehoejchzjsjhptxlngbhugqhoulngbhsjasjpetjgop,
zupha yyhxahgxiyjtjgkhOejhjvfnojtjgohbsjzhtxsjhngojgpj,hugqhjrjschaufj
ijosucjqhpxtjh gjupngjppkhOejhjvfnojtjgohzuphpmjfnuyychljjghaxshoej
yjuqjsphxahjufehmusoc,hzexhlgjzhjrjschqjouny,hugqheuqhsjflxgjqh mhjrjsc
rxojkhOejchzjsjhoejhbjgjsuyphxsbugndngbhoejhummsxufengbhiuooyjkhOej
sjpo,hynljhoejhsuglhugqhanyjhijaxsjhughjgbubjtjgo,hoex behoejchzjsj
bjoongbhsjuqchaxshoejhanbeo,hpx beohaxshxoejshqnposufonxgphnghoej
ngojsruykhPxtjhzjsjhy gfengb,hpougqngbhuohoejhius,hxshpnoongbhuohoej
ouiyj;hxoejsphzjsjhzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghoejhyxgbhsxxt,hptxlngb
fnbusjoojp,hugqhouylngbhznoehasnjgqphzexthoejcheuqhgxohpjjghaxshuhyxgb
zenyjk

Yjrnghqnqhgxohfusjhoxhjuo,hugqhejhzuphgxohptxlngb;hejhqnqhgxohzugohox
.xnghenphxzghasnjgqp,hoeuohnphPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
Prnudeplchugqhoejhsjpo,hijfu pjhRsxgplchnghenphjw jssc’ph gnaxsthzup
pougqngbhznoehoejthnghjubjshfxgrjspuonxgkhYjrngheuqhpjjghenthuysjuqchuo
oejhtjjongbhxghoejhmsjrnx phquc,hugqhejheuqhpo qnx pychurxnqjqhent,hgxo
fusngbhoxhbsjjohentkhEjhzjgohoxhoejhzngqxzhugqhpuohqxzg,hpfuggngbhoej
bsx mp,hugqhynpojgngbhoxhzeuohzuphijngbhpunqhusx gqhentkhEjhajyo
qjmsjppjq,hjpmjfnuyychijfu pjhjrjscxgjhjypjhzup,huphejhpuz,hjubjs,
ugvnx p,hugqhngojsjpojq,hugqhejhuyxgj,hznoehughxyq,hoxxoeyjpphynooyj
tughznoeht tiyngbhynmphzjusngbhuhguruyh gnaxst,hpnoongbhijpnqjhent,heuq
gxhngojsjpohnghnohugqhgxoengbhoxhqxk

“Ej’php fehuhiyuflb usq!hNheurjhoxyqhenthpx,hi ohnohtuljphgx
qnaajsjgfjkhXgychoenglhxahno!hEjhfx yqg’ohfxyyjfohnohnghoesjjhcjusp!”
ejhejusqhrnbxsx pych oojsjqhichuhsx gq-pex yqjsjq,hpexso,hfx gosc
bjgoyjtug,hzexheuqhmxtuqjqheunsheugbngbhxghenphjtisxnqjsjqhfxyyus,hugq
gjzhixxophxirnx pychm ohxghaxshoejhxffupnxg,hznoehejjyphoeuohoummjq
jgjsbjonfuyychuphejhpmxljkhFupongbhuhqnpmyjupjqhbyugfjhuohYjrng,hoenp
bjgoyjtughpeusmycho sgjqhenphiuflk

“Cjp,hno’phuhqnsochi pngjpp,hoejsj’phgxhqjgcngb,”huhptuyyhbjgoyjtug
uppjgojqhnghuhenbehrxnfjk

Gjvo,huhzexyjhfsxzqhxahfx goschbjgoyjtjg,hp ssx gqngbhuhpox ohbjgjsuy,
e ssnjqychfutjhgjushYjrngkhOejpjhmjspxgphzjsjh gtnpouluiychpjjlngbhu
myufjhzejsjhoejchfx yqhouylhznoex ohijngbhxrjsejusqk

“ExzhqusjhejhpuchNheuqhenphisjjfejphpoxyjg!hMuzgjqhoejthaxshqsngl,hN
jvmjfokhQutghoejhajyyxz,hmsngfjhngqjjq!hEj’qhijoojshgxohpuchno,hoej
ijupo!”

“I ohjvf pjhtj!hOejchouljhoejnshpougqhxghoejhufo,”hzuphijngbhpunqhng
ugxoejshbsx m;h“oejhznajht pohijhsjbnpojsjqhuphgxiyjk”

“Xe,hqutghcx shufop!hNhpmjulhasxthtchejusokhZj’sjhuyyhbjgoyjtjg,husjg’o
zj?hUixrjhp pmnfnxgk”

“Peuyyhzjhbxhxg,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc,h_angjhfeutmubgj?_”

Ugxoejshbsx mhzuphaxyyxzngbhuhgxiyjtug,hzexhzuphpex ongbhpxtjoengbhnghu
yx qhrxnfj;hnohzuphxgjhxahoejhoesjjhngoxvnfuojqhbjgoyjtjgk

“NhuyzucphuqrnpjqhTuscuhPjtcxgxrguhoxhyjohaxshuhaunshsjgo,haxshpejhfug
gjrjshpurjhuhmsxano,”hejhejusqhuhmyjupugohrxnfjhpuckhOejhpmjuljshzuphu
fx goschbjgoyjtughznoehbsuchzenpljsp,hzjusngbhoejhsjbntjgouyh gnaxsthxa
ughxyqhbjgjsuyhpouaa-xaanfjskhNohzuphoejhrjschyugqxzgjshYjrngheuqhtjo
uohPrnudeplc’pkhEjhlgjzhenthuohxgfjkhOejhyugqxzgjshoxxhpousjqhuohYjrng,
ugqhoejchjvfeugbjqhbsjjongbpk

“Rjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx !hOxhijhp sj!hNhsjtjtijshcx hrjschzjyykhYupohcjus
uohx shqnposnfohtuspeuy,hGnlxyuchNrugxrnofe’pk”

“Zjyy,hugqhexzhnphcx shyugqhqxngb?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Xe,hponyyh. pohoejhputj,huyzucphuohuhyxpp,”hoejhyugqxzgjshugpzjsjq
znoehuhsjpnbgjqhptnyj,hi ohznoehughjvmsjppnxghxahpjsjgnochugq
fxgrnfonxghoeuohpxhnoht pohijkh“Ugqhexzhqxhcx hfxtjhoxhijhnghx s
msxrngfj?”hejhupljqkh“Fxtjhoxhouljhmusohnghx sh_fx mhq’éouo?_”hejhpunq,
fxganqjgoychmsxgx gfngbhoejhAsjgfehzxsqphznoehuhiuqhuffjgokh“Uyy
S ppnu’phejsj—bjgoyjtjghxahoejhijqfeutijs,hugqhjrjscoengbhpexsohxahoej
tngnposck”hEjhmxngojqhoxhoejhntmxpngbhanb sjhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofehng
zenojhosx pjsphugqhenphfx soh gnaxst,hzuylngbhichznoehuhbjgjsuyk

“Nhx beohoxhxzghoeuohNhqxg’ohrjschzjyyh gqjspougqhoejhqsnaohxahoej
msxrngfnuyhjyjfonxgp,”hpunqhYjrngk

Oejhyugqxzgjshyxxljqhuohentk

“Zec,hzeuohnphoejsjhoxh gqjspougq?hOejsj’phgxhtjugngbhnghnohuohuyyk
No’phuhqjfucngbhngpono onxghoeuohbxjphxghs ggngbhxgychichoejhaxsfjhxa
ngjsonukh. pohyxxl,hoejhrjsch gnaxstphojyyhcx hoeuohno’phughuppjtiychxa
. ponfjphxahoejhmjufj,hmjstugjgohtjtijsphxahoejhfx so,hugqhpxhxg,hi o
gxohxahgxiyjtjgk”

“Oejghzechqxhcx hfxtj?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Asxtheuino,hgxoengbhjypjkhOejg,hoxx,hxgjht pohljjmh mhfxggjfonxgpk
No’phuhtxsuyhxiynbuonxghxahuhpxsokhUgqhoejg,hoxhojyyhoejhos oe,hoejsj’p
xgj’phxzghngojsjpopkhTchpxg-ng-yuzhzugophoxhpougqhuphuhmjstugjgo
tjtijs;hoejc’sjhgxohsnfehmjxmyj,hugqhejht pohijhisx beohaxszusqkhOejpj
bjgoyjtjg,hgxz,hzeuohqxhoejchfxtjhaxs?”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoej
tuynbgugohbjgoyjtug,hzexhzuphouylngbhuohoejhenbehouiyjk

“Oeuo’phoejhgjzhbjgjsuonxghxahgxinynock”

“Gjzhnohtuchij,hi ohgxinynochnohnpg’okhOejc’sjhmsxmsnjoxsphxahuhpxso,
i ohzj’sjhoejhyugqxzgjspkhUphgxiyjtjg,hoejc’sjhf oongbhoejnshxzg
oesxuopk”

“I ohcx hpuchno’phughngpono onxghoeuo’phpjsrjqhnophontjk”

“Oeuohnohtuchij,hi ohponyyhnohx beohoxhijhosjuojqhuhynooyjhtxsj
sjpmjfoa yyckhPgjolxr,hgxzkkkkhZjhtuchijhxah pj,hxshzjhtuchgxo,hi o
zj’sjhoejhbsxzoehxahuhoex pugqhcjuspkhNahzj’sjhyucngbhx ohuhbusqjg,
myuggngbhxgjhijaxsjhoejhex pj,hcx hlgxz,hugqhoejsjhcx ’rjhuhosjjhoeuo’p
poxxqhaxshfjgo snjphnghoejhrjschpmxokkkkhXyqhugqhbgusyjqhnohtuchij,hugq
cjohcx hqxg’ohf ohqxzghoejhxyqhajyyxzhoxhtuljhsxxthaxshoejhayxzjsijqp,
i ohyuchx ohcx shijqphpxhuphoxhouljhuqrugoubjhxahoejhosjjkhCx hzxg’o
bsxzhenthubunghnghuhcjus,”hejhpunqhfu onx pyc,hugqhejhnttjqnuojyc
feugbjqhoejhfxgrjspuonxgkh“Zjyy,hugqhexzhnphcx shyugqhqxngb?”

“Xe,hgxohrjschzjyykhNhtuljhanrjhmjshfjgok”

“Cjp,hi ohcx hqxg’ohsjflxghcx shxzghzxslkhUsjg’ohcx hzxsoehpxtjoengb
oxx?hN’yyhojyyhcx htchxzghfupjkhIjaxsjhNhoxxlhoxhpjjngbhuaojshoejhyugq,
Nheuqhuhpuyuschxahoesjjhe gqsjqhmx gqphasxthoejhpjsrnfjkhGxzhNhqxhtxsj
zxslhoeughNhqnqhnghoejhpjsrnfj,hugqhynljhcx hNhbjohanrjhmjshfjgokhxg
oejhyugq,hugqhoeuglhBxqhaxshoeuokhI ohxgj’phzxslhnphoesxzghnghaxs
gxoengbk”

“Oejghzechqxhcx hqxhno,hnahno’phuhfyjushyxpp?”

“Xe,hzjyy,hxgjhqxjphno!hZeuohzx yqhcx heurj?hNo’pheuino,hugqhxgjhlgxzp
no’phexzhnohpex yqhijkhUgqhzeuo’phtxsj,”hoejhyugqxzgjshzjgohxg,hyjugngb
enphjyixzphxghoejhzngqxzhugqhfeuoongbhxg,h“tchpxg,hNht pohojyyhcx ,heup
gxhoupojhaxshnokhOejsj’phgxhqx iohej’yyhijhuhpfnjgonanfhtugkhPx
oejsj’yyhijhgxhxgjhoxhljjmhnoh mkhUgqhcjohxgjhqxjphnokhEjsjhoenphcjus
N’rjhmyugojqhughxsfeusqk”

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpunqhYjrng,h“oeuo’phmjsajfoychos jkhNhuyzucphajjyhoejsj’p
gxhsjuyhiuyugfjhxahbunghnghtchzxslhxghoejhyugq,hugqhcjohxgjhqxjphnokkkk
No’phuhpxsohxahq ochxgjhajjyphoxhoejhyugqk”

“I ohNhojyyhcx hzeuo,”hoejhyugqxzgjshm sp jq;h“uhgjnbeixshxahtngj,hu
tjsfeugo,hzuphuohtchmyufjkhZjhzuyljqhuix ohoejhanjyqphugqhoejhbusqjgk
‘Gx,’hpunqhej,h‘PojmughRuppnynjrnofe,hjrjscoengb’phzjyyhyxxljqhuaojs,
i ohcx shbusqjg’phgjbyjfojqk’hI o,huphuhaufo,hno’phzjyyhljmoh mkh‘Oxhtc
oenglngb,hN’qhf ohqxzghoeuohyntj-osjjkhEjsjhcx ’rjhoex pugqphxahyntjp,
ugqhjufehzx yqhtuljhozxhbxxqhi gqyjphxahiuslkhUgqhgxzuqucphoeuohiusl’p
zxsoehpxtjoengbkhN’qhf ohqxzghoejhyxok’”

“Ugqhznoehzeuohejhtuqjhej’qhngfsjupjhenphpoxfl,hxshi chpxtjhyugqhaxshu
osnayj,hugqhyjohnohx ohnghyxophoxhoejhmjupugop,”hYjrnghuqqjq,hptnyngbk
Ejheuqhjrnqjgoychtxsjhoeughxgfjhfxtjhufsxpphoexpjhfxttjsfnuy
fuyf yuonxgpkh“Ugqhej’qhtuljhenphaxso gjkhI ohcx hugqhNht pohoeuglhBxq
nahzjhljjmhzeuohzj’rjhbxohugqhyjurjhnohoxhx shfenyqsjgk”

“Cx ’sjhtussnjq,hN’rjhejusq?”hpunqhoejhyugqxzgjsk

“Cjp,”hYjrnghugpzjsjq,hznoehmsx qhpuonpaufonxgkh“Cjp,hno’phsuoejs
posugbj,”hejhzjgohxgkh“Pxhzjhynrjhznoex ohtulngbhugcoengb,huphoex behzj
zjsjhugfnjgohrjpouyphpjohoxhljjmhnghuhansjk”

Oejhyugqxzgjshfe flyjqh gqjshenphzenojht poufejpk

“Oejsjhusjhpxtjhutxgbh p,hoxx,hynljhx shasnjgqhGnlxyuchNrugxrnofe,hxs
Fx gohRsxgplc,hoeuo’phpjooyjqhejsjhyuojyc,hzexhoschoxhfusschxghoejns
e piugqschuphoex behnohzjsjhuhaufoxsc;hi ohpxhaushnohyjuqphoxhgxoengb
i ohtulngbhuzuchznoehfumnouyhxghnok”

“I ohzechnphnohzjhqxg’ohqxhynljhoejhtjsfeugop?hZechqxg’ohzjhf ohqxzg
x shmuslphaxshontijs?”hpunqhYjrng,hsjo sgngbhoxhuhoex beohoeuoheuq
pos flhentk

“Zec,huphcx hpunq,hoxhljjmhoejhansjhngkhIjpnqjphoeuo’phgxohzxslhaxshu
gxiyjtugkhUgqhx shzxslhuphgxiyjtjghnpg’ohqxgjhejsjhuohoejhjyjfonxgp,
i ohcxgqjs,hjufehnghx shfxsgjskhOejsj’phuhfyupphngpongfo,hoxx,hxahzeuo
xgjhx beohugqhx beog’ohoxhqxkhOejsj’phoejhmjupugop,hoxx,hNhzxgqjshuo
oejthpxtjontjp;hugchbxxqhmjupugohosnjphoxhouljhuyyhoejhyugqhejhfugk
Exzjrjshiuqhoejhyugqhnp,hej’yyhzxslhnokhZnoex ohuhsjo sghoxxkhUohu
pntmyjhyxppk”

“. pohuphzjhqx,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Rjsc,hrjschbyuqhoxheurjhtjohcx ,”hej
uqqjq,hpjjngbhPrnudeplchummsxufengbhentk

“Ugqhejsjhzj’rjhtjohaxshoejhanspohontjhpngfjhzjhtjohuohcx shmyufj,”
punqhoejhyugqxzgjshoxhPrnudeplc,h“ugqhzj’rjheuqhuhbxxqhouylhoxxk”

“Zjyy,heurjhcx hijjghuoouflngbhoejhgjzhxsqjshxahoengbp?”hpunqhPrnudeplc
znoehuhptnyjk

“Oeuohzj’sjhix gqhoxhqxk”

“Cx ’rjhsjynjrjqhcx shajjyngbp?”


Feumojsh30

PrnudeplchoxxlhYjrng’phust,hugqhzjgohznoehenthoxhenphxzghasnjgqpk

OenphontjhoejsjhzuphgxhurxnqngbhRsxgplckhEjhzuphpougqngbhznoehPojmug
UsluqcjrnofehugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhyxxlngbhposunbeohuohYjrnghuphej
qsjzhgjusk

“Qjynbeojq!hNhijynjrjhN’rjheuqhoejhmyjup sjhxahtjjongbhcx hkkkhuo
MsngfjpphPeofejsiuoplucu’p,”hejhpunq,hbnrngbhYjrnghenpheugqk

“Cjp,hNhw nojhsjtjtijshx shtjjongb,”hpunqhYjrng,hugqhiy pengbhfsntpxg,
ejho sgjqhuzuchnttjqnuojyc,hugqhijbughouylngbhoxhenphisxoejsk

ZnoehuhpynbeohptnyjhRsxgplchzjgohxghouylngbhoxhPrnudeplc,hxirnx pyc
znoex ohoejhpynbeojpohngfynguonxghoxhjgojshngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoe
YjrngkhI ohYjrng,huphejhouyljqhoxhenphisxoejs,hzuphfxgong uyychyxxlngb
sx gqhuohRsxgplc,hoscngbhoxhoenglhxahpxtjoengbhoxhpuchoxhenthoxhbyxpp
xrjshenphs qjgjppk

“Zeuohusjhzjhzunongbhaxshgxz?”hupljqhYjrng,hyxxlngbhuohPrnudeplchugq
Rsxgplck

“AxshPgjolxrkhEjheuphoxhsja pjhxshoxhfxgpjgohoxhpougq,”hugpzjsjq
Prnudeplck

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuoheuphejhqxgj,hfxgpjgojqhxshgxo?”

“Oeuo’phoejhmxngo,hoeuohej’phqxgjhgjnoejs,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“Ugqhnahejhsja pjp,hzexhznyyhpougqhoejg?”hupljqhYjrng,hyxxlngbhuo
Rsxgplck

“Zexjrjshfexxpjphox,”hpunqhPrnudeplck

“Peuyyhcx ?”hupljqhYjrngk

“FjsoungychgxohN,”hpunqhPrnudeplc,hyxxlngbhfxga pjq,hugqho sgngbhug
uyustjqhbyugfjhuohoejhtuynbgugohbjgoyjtug,hzexhzuphpougqngbhijpnqj
PjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Zexhoejg?hGjrcjqxrplc?”hpunqhYjrng,hajjyngbhejhzuphm oongbhenphaxxo
ngoxhnok

I ohoenphzuphzxspjhponyykhGjrcjqxrplchugqhPrnudeplchzjsjhoejhozx
fugqnquojpk

“Nhfjsoungychpeuyyhgxo,h gqjshugchfnsf tpougfjp,”hugpzjsjqhoej
tuynbgugohbjgoyjtugk

OenphzuphGjrcjqxrplchentpjyakhPrnudeplchngosxq fjqhenthoxhYjrngk

“Zjyy,hcx hangqhnohjvfnongbhoxx?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznglngbhuo
Rsxgplckh“No’phpxtjoengbhynljhuhsufjkhXgjhtnbeohijohxghnok”

“Cjp,hnohnphljjgychjvfnongb,”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Ugqhxgfjhoulngbhoejhoengb
 m,hxgj’phjubjshoxhpjjhnohoesx bekhNo’phuhanbeo!”hejhpunq,hpfxzyngbhugq
pjoongbhenphmxzjsa yh.uzpk

“ZeuohuhfumuiyjhajyyxzhPrnudeplchnp!hPjjphnohuyyhpxhfyjusyck”

“Xe,hcjp!”hRsxgplchuppjgojqhngqnaajsjgoyck

Uhpnyjgfjhaxyyxzjq,hq sngbhzenfehRsxgplc—pngfjhejheuqhoxhyxxlhuo
pxtjoengb—yxxljqhuohYjrng,huohenphajjo,huohenph gnaxst,hoejghuohenp
aufj,hugqhgxonfngbhenphbyxxtchjcjphanvjqh mxghent,hejhpunq,hnghxsqjshox
puchpxtjoengb:

“Exzhnphnohoeuohcx ,hynrngbhfxgpougoychnghoejhfx gosc,husjhgxohu
. ponfjhxahoejhmjufj?hCx husjhgxohnghoejh gnaxsthxahxgjk”

“No’phijfu pjhNhfxgpnqjshoeuohoejh. ponfjhxahoejhmjufjhnphuhpnyyc
ngpono onxg,”hYjrnghugpzjsjqhbyxxtnyckhEjheuqhijjghuyyhoejhontjhyxxlngb
axshughxmmxso gnochoxhjgojshngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehRsxgplc,hpxhuphox
ptxxoehxrjshenphs qjgjpphuohoejnshanspohtjjongbk

“Nhqxg’ohoenglhpx,hw nojhoejhfxgosusc,”hRsxgplchpunq,hznoehw njo
p smsnpjk

“No’phuhmyucoengb,”hYjrnghf ohenthpexsokh“Zjhqxg’ohzugoh. ponfjphxahoej
mjufjkhN’rjhgjrjsheuqhuhpngbyjhoengbhoxhqxhznoehoejthq sngbhjnbeo
cjuspkhUgqhzeuohNheurjheuqhzuphqjfnqjqhzsxgbychichoejtkhOejh. ponfjhxa
oejhmjufjhnphxrjshoensochtnyjphasxthtjkhAxshpxtjhtuoojshxahozxhsx iyjp
Nhpex yqheurjhoxhpjgqhuhyuzcjs,hzexhfxpophtjhanaojjgk”

Ugqhejhsjyuojqhexzhuhmjupugoheuqhpoxyjghpxtjhayx shasxthoejhtnyyjs,hugq
zejghoejhtnyyjshoxyqhenthxahno,heuqhyxqbjqhuhfxtmyungohaxshpyugqjskhUyy
oenphzuph oojsych gfuyyjqhaxshugqhpo mnq,hugqhYjrnghajyohnohentpjyahup
ejhpunqhnok

“Xe,hoenphnphp fehughxsnbnguyhajyyxz!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoe
enphtxpohpxxoengb,huytxgq-xnyhptnyjkh“I ohfxtjhuyxgb;hNhoenglhoejc’sj
rxongbkkkk”

Ugqhoejchpjmusuojqk

“Nhfug’oh gqjspougq,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzexheuqhxipjsrjqhenp
isxoejs’phfy tpngjpp,h“Nhfug’oh gqjspougqhexzhugcxgjhfughijhpx
uipxy ojychqjrxnqhxahmxynonfuyhoufokhOeuo’phzejsjhzjhS ppnugphusjhpx
qjanfnjgokhOejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhnphx shxmmxgjgo,hugqhznoehent
cx ’sjh_utnhfxfexg_,hugqhcx hijbhenthoxhpougqkhFx gohRsxgplc,hgxzhkkk
N’thgxohtulngbhuhasnjgqhxahent;hej’phupljqhtjhoxhqnggjs,hugqhN’thgxo
bxngb;hi ohej’phxgjhxahx shpnqj—zechtuljhughjgjtchxahent?hOejghcx hupl
Gjrcjqxrplchnahej’phbxngbhoxhpougqkhOeuo’phgxohuhoengbhoxhqxk”

“Xe,hNhqxg’oh gqjspougqhnohuohuyy!hUgqhno’phuyyhp fehgxgpjgpj,”hYjrng
ugpzjsjqhbyxxtnyck

“Cx hpuchno’phuyyhp fehgxgpjgpj,hi ohuphpxxghuphcx heurjhugcoengbhoxhqx
znoehno,hcx htuljhuht qqyjk”

Yjrnghqnqhgxohugpzjs,hugqhoejchzuyljqhoxbjoejshngoxhoejhinbhsxxtk

Oejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfj,hoex behejhzuphrub jychfxgpfnx phnghoejhuns
xahpxtjhosumhijngbhmsjmusjqhaxshent,hugqhoex behejheuqhgxohijjghfuyyjq
 mxghichuyyhoxhpougq,heuqhponyyhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhpougqkhUyyhzup
pnyjgfjhnghoejhsxxtkhOejhpjfsjouschuggx gfjqhnghuhyx qhrxnfjhoeuohoej
fumounghxahoejhb usqp,hTneunyhPojmugxrnofehPgjolxr,hzx yqhgxzhij
iuyyxojqhaxshuphtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjk

Oejhqnposnfohtuspeuyphzuyljqhfusscngbhmyuojp,hxghzenfehzjsjhiuyyp,hasxt
oejnshouiyjphoxhoejhenbehouiyj,hugqhoejhjyjfonxghijbugk

“M ohnohnghoejhsnbeohpnqj,”hzenpmjsjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphznoehenp
isxoejshYjrnghaxyyxzjqhoejhtuspeuyhxahenphqnposnfohoxhoejhouiyjkhI o
Yjrngheuqhaxsbxoojghichgxzhoejhfuyf yuonxgphoeuoheuqhijjghjvmyungjqhox
ent,hugqhzuphuasunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehtnbeohijhtnpouljghnghpucngb
“oejhsnbeohpnqjk”hP sjychPgjolxrhzuphoejhjgjtckhUphejhzjgoh m,hejhejyq
oejhiuyyhnghenphsnbeoheugq,hi ohoenglngbhejhzuphzsxgb,h. pohuohoejhixv
ejhfeugbjqhoxhoejhyjaoheugq,hugqh gqx iojqychm ohoejhiuyyhoxhoejhyjaok
Ughuqjmohnghoejhi pngjpp,hpougqngbhuohoejhixvhugqhpjjngbhichoejhtjsj
ufonxghxahoejhjyixzhzejsjhjufehm ohenphiuyy,hpfxzyjqhznoehuggxcugfjkhNo
zuphgxhbxxqhaxshenthoxh pjhenphngpnbeok

Jrjscoengbhzuphponyy,hugqhoejhfx gongbhxahoejhiuyyphzuphejusqkhOejghu
pngbyjhrxnfjhsxpjhugqhmsxfyuntjqhoejhg tijsphaxshugqhubungpokhOej
tuspeuyheuqhijjghrxojqhaxshichuhfxgpnqjsuiyjhtu.xsnockhUyyhzuphgxnpj
ugqhjubjshtxrjtjgohoxzusqphoejhqxxspkhPgjolxrhfutjhng,hugqhoejhgxiyjp
oesxgbjqhsx gqhent,hfxgbsuo yuongbhentk

“Zjyy,hgxzhnphnohxrjs?”hYjrnghupljqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“No’phxgych. pohijbnggngb,”hPrnudeplchpunq,hsjmycngbhaxshPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehznoehuhptnyjkh“Pxtjhxoejshfugqnquojhtuchsjfjnrjhtxsjhrxojp
oeughoejhtuspeuyk”

Yjrngheuqhw nojhaxsbxoojghuix ohoeuokhGxzhejhfx yqhxgychsjtjtijshoeuo
oejsjhzuphpxtjhpxsohxahosnfljschnghno,hi ohejhzuphoxxhixsjqhoxhoengl
zeuohnohzuphjvufoyckhEjhajyohqjmsjppjq,hugqhyxgbjqhoxhbjohx ohxahoej
fsxzqk

Uphgxhxgjhzuphmucngbhugchuoojgonxghoxhent,hugqhgxhxgjhummusjgoychgjjqjq
ent,hejhw njoychpynmmjqhuzuchngoxhoejhynooyjhsxxthzejsjhoej
sjasjpetjgophzjsj,hugqhubungheuqhuhbsjuohpjgpjhxahfxtaxsohzejghejhpuz
oejhzunojspkhOejhynooyjhxyqhzunojshmsjppjqhenthoxheurjhpxtjoengb,hugq
YjrnghubsjjqkhUaojshjuongbhuhf oyjohznoehijugphugqhouylngbhoxhoej
zunojsphxahoejnshaxstjshtupojsp,hYjrng,hgxohznpengbhoxhbxhiuflhoxhoej
euyy,hzejsjhnohzuphuyyhpxhqnpoupoja yhoxhent,hmsxfjjqjqhoxhzuylhoesx be
oejhbuyyjsnjpkhOejhbuyyjsnjphzjsjha yyhxahaupenxguiychqsjppjqhyuqnjp,
yjugngbhxrjshoejhiuy posuqjhugqhoscngbhgxohoxhyxpjhuhpngbyjhzxsqhxa
zeuohzuphijngbhpunqhijyxzkhZnoehoejhyuqnjphzjsjhpnoongbhugqhpougqngb
ptusohyuzcjsp,henbehpfexxyhojufejsphnghpmjfoufyjp,hugqhxaanfjspk
Jrjsczejsjhoejchzjsjhouylngbhxahoejhjyjfonxg,hugqhxahexzhzxssnjqhoej
tuspeuyhzup,hugqhexzhpmyjgqnqhoejhqnpf ppnxgpheuqhijjgkhNghxgjhbsx m
Yjrnghejusqhenphisxoejs’phmsunpjpkhXgjhyuqchzuphojyyngbhuhyuzcjs:

“ExzhbyuqhNhuthNhejusqhLxdgnpejr!hNo’phzxsoehyxpngbhxgj’phqnggjskhEj’p
jvw npnoj!hPxhfyjushugqhqnpongfohuyyhxahno!hOejsj’phgxohxgjhxahcx hng
oejhyuzhfx sophoeuohpmjulphynljhoeuokhOejhxgychxgjhnphTjnqjy,hugqhej’p
gxohpxhjyxw jgohichuhyxgbhzuck”

Angqngbhuhasjjhmyufj,hYjrnghyjugjqhxrjshoejhiuy posuqjhugqhijbug
yxxlngbhugqhynpojgngbk

Uyyhoejhgxiyjtjghzjsjhpnoongbhsunyjqhxaahijengqhiussnjsphuffxsqngbhox
oejnshqnposnfopkhNghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxthpoxxqhuhtughnghuh gnaxst,
zexhpex ojqhnghuhyx q,henbehrxnfj:

“Uphuhfugqnquojhaxshoejhtuspeuypenmhxahoejhgxinynochxahoejhmsxrngfjhzj
fuyyh mxghpouaa-fumounghCjrbjgjchNrugxrnofehUm eong!”hUhqjuqhpnyjgfj
axyyxzjq,hugqhoejghuhzjulhxyqhrxnfjhzuphejusq:h“Qjfyngjq!”

“Zjhfuyyh mxghoejhmsnrchfx gfnyxshMcxoshMjosxrnofehIxy,”hoejhrxnfj
ijbughubungk

“Qjfyngjq!”huhenbehixcnpehrxnfjhsjmynjqk

Ubunghnohijbug,hugqhubungh“Qjfyngjqk”hUgqhpxhnohzjgohxghaxshuix ohug
ex skhYjrng,hznoehenphjyixzphxghoejhiuy posuqj,hyxxljqhugqhynpojgjqkhUo
anspohejhzxgqjsjqhugqhzugojqhoxhlgxzhzeuohnohtjugo;hoejghajjyngbhp sj
oeuohejhfx yqhgxohtuljhnohx ohejhijbughoxhijhixsjqkhOejghsjfuyyngbhuyy
oejhjvfnojtjgohugqhrngqnfonrjgjpphejheuqhpjjghxghuyyhoejhaufjp,hejhajyo
puq;hejhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhbx,hugqhzjgohqxzgpounspkhUphejhmuppjq
oesx behoejhjgoschoxhoejhbuyyjsnjphejhtjohuhqj.jfojqhenbehpfexxyhixc
zuylngbh mhugqhqxzghznoehonsjq-yxxlngbhjcjpkhXghoejhpounsphejhtjohu
fx myj—uhyuqchs ggngbhw nflychxghejshenbehejjyphugqhoejh.u gochqjm oc
msxpjf oxsk

“Nhoxyqhcx hcx hzjsjg’ohyuoj,”hoejhqjm ochmsxpjf oxshzuphpucngbhuohoej
txtjgohzejghYjrnghtxrjqhupnqjhoxhyjohoejhyuqchmuppk

Yjrnghzuphxghoejhpounsphoxhoejhzuchx o,hugqhzuph. pohajjyngbhnghenp
zunpofxuohmxfljohaxshoejhg tijshxahenphxrjsfxuo,hzejghoejhpjfsjousc
xrjsoxxlhentk

“Oenphzuc,hmyjupj,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe;hoejchusjhrxongbk”

OejhfugqnquojhzexhzuphijngbhrxojqhxghzuphGjrcjqxrplc,hzexheuqhpx
pox oychqjgnjqhuyyhnqjuhxahpougqngbkhYjrnghzjgoh mhoxhoejhqxxshxahoej
sxxt;hnohzuphyxfljqkhOejhpjfsjouschlgxfljq,hoejhqxxshxmjgjq,hugqhYjrng
zuphtjohichozxhsjq-aufjqhbjgoyjtjg,hzexhqusojqhx ok

“Nhfug’ohpougqhugchtxsjhxahno,”hpunqhxgjhsjq-aufjqhbjgoyjtugk

Uaojshoejthoejhaufjhxahoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhzuphmxljqhx okhEnp
aufjhzuphqsjuqa y-yxxlngbhasxthjveu ponxghugqhqnptuck

“Nhoxyqhcx hgxohoxhyjohugcxgjhx o!”hejhfsnjqhoxhoejhqxxsljjmjsk

“Nhyjohpxtjxgjhng,hcx shjvfjyyjgfc!”

“Tjsfchxgh p!”hugqhznoehuhejurchpnbehoejhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhzuyljq
znoehqxzgfupohejuqhoxhoejhenbehouiyjhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhsxxt,henp
yjbphpoubbjsngbhnghenphzenojhosx pjspk

Gjrcjqxrplcheuqhpfxsjqhuhenbejshtu.xsnoc,huphoejcheuqhmyuggjq,hugqhej
zuphoejhgjzhtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjkhTugchmjxmyjhzjsjhut pjq,htugchzjsj
myjupjqhugqheummc,htugchzjsjhnghjfpoupnjp,htugchzjsjhqnpb pojqhugq
 geummckhOejhaxstjshtuspeuyhxahoejhmsxrngfjhzuphnghuhpouojhxahqjpmuns,
zenfehejhfx yqhgxohfxgfjuykhZejghGjrcjqxrplchzjgohx ohxahoejhsxxt,hoej
fsxzqhoesxgbjqhsx gqhenthugqhaxyyxzjqhenthjgoe pnuponfuyyc,h. pohup
oejcheuqhaxyyxzjqhoejhbxrjsgxshzexheuqhxmjgjqhoejhtjjongbp,hugqh. pohup
oejcheuqhaxyyxzjqhPgjolxrhzejghejhzuphjyjfojqk


Feumojsh31

Oejhgjzychjyjfojqhtuspeuyhugqhtugchxahoejhp ffjppa yhmusochqngjqhoeuo
quchznoehRsxgplck

Rsxgplcheuqhfxtjhoxhoejhjyjfonxgphmusoychijfu pjhejhzuphixsjqhnghoej
fx goschugqhzugojqhoxhpexzhUgguhenphsnbeohoxhngqjmjgqjgfj,hugqhuypxhox
sjmuchPrnudeplchichenphp mmxsohuohoejhjyjfonxghaxshuyyhoejhosx iyjhej
euqhouljghaxshRsxgplchuohoejhqnposnfohfx gfnyhjyjfonxg,hi ohfenjaychng
xsqjshposnfoychoxhmjsaxsthuyyhoexpjhq onjphxahuhgxiyjtughugqhyugqxzgjs
zenfehejheuqhouljgh mxghentpjyakhI ohejheuqhgxohnghoejhyjupohjvmjfojq
oeuohoejhjyjfonxghzx yqhpxhngojsjpohent,hpxhljjgychjvfnojhent,hugqhoeuo
ejhzx yqhijhpxhbxxqhuohoenphlngqhxahoengbkhEjhzuphw nojhuhgjzhtughng
oejhfnsfyjhxahoejhgxinynochxahoejhmsxrngfj,hi ohenphp ffjpphzup
 gtnpouluiyj,hugqhejhzuphgxohzsxgbhnghp mmxpngbhoeuohejheuqhuysjuqc
xioungjqhuhfjsounghngay jgfjkhOenphngay jgfjhzuphq jhoxhenphzjuyoehugq
sjm ouonxg,hoejhfumnouyhex pjhnghoejhoxzghyjgohenthichenphxyqhasnjgq
Penslxr,hzexheuqhuhmxpohnghoejhqjmusotjgohxahangugfjphugqhzuphqnsjfoxs
xahuhayx snpengbhiuglhnghLupeng;hoejhjvfjyyjgohfxxlhRsxgplcheuqhisx beo
asxthoejhfx gosc,hugqhenphasnjgqpenmhznoehoejhbxrjsgxs,hzexhzuphu
pfexxyajyyxzhxahRsxgplc’p—uhpfexxyajyyxzhejheuqhmuosxgndjqhugq
msxojfojqhngqjjqkhI ohzeuohfxgosni ojqhtxsjhoeughuyyhoxhenphp ffjpphzup
enphqnsjfo,hjw uiyjhtuggjshznoehjrjscxgj,hzenfehrjschw nflychtuqjhoej
tu.xsnochxahoejhgxiyjtjghsjrjspjhoejhf ssjgohxmngnxghxahenphp mmxpjq
eu beongjppkhEjhzuphentpjyahfxgpfnx phoeuo,hjvfjmohoeuohzentpnfuy
bjgoyjtughtussnjqhoxhLnoochPeofejsiuoplucu,hzexheuqh_àhmsxmxphqj
ixoojp_hmx sjqhx ohuhposjuthxahnssjyjrugohuip sqnonjphznoehp fe
pmnoja yha sc,hjrjschgxiyjtughznoehzexthejheuqhtuqjhufw ungougfjheuq
ijfxtjhenphuqejsjgokhEjhpuzhfyjusyc,hugqhxoejshmjxmyjhsjfxbgndjqhno,
oxx,hoeuohejheuqhqxgjhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhpjf sjhoejhp ffjpphxa
GjrcjqxrplckhUgqhgxzhuohenphxzghouiyj,hfjyjisuongbhGjrcjqxrplc’p
jyjfonxg,hejhzuphjvmjsnjgfngbhughubsjjuiyjhpjgpjhxahosn tmehxrjshoej
p ffjpphxahenphfugqnquojkhOejhjyjfonxghnopjyaheuqhpxhaupfnguojqhent
oeuo,hnahejhfx yqhp ffjjqhnghbjoongbhtussnjqhq sngbhoejhgjvohoesjj
cjusp,hejhijbughoxhoenglhxahpougqngbhentpjya—t fehuphuaojshznggngbhu
sufjhsnqqjghichuh.xfljc,hejheuqhyxgbjqhoxhsnqjhuhsufjhentpjyak

Oxquchejhzuphfjyjisuongbhoejhp ffjpphxahenph.xfljckhRsxgplchpuohuohoej
ejuqhxahoejhouiyj,hxghenphsnbeoheugqhpuohoejhcx gbhbxrjsgxs,huhbjgjsuy
xahenbehsuglkhOxhuyyhoejhsjpohejhzuphoejhfenjahtughnghoejhmsxrngfj,hzex
euqhpxyjtgychxmjgjqhoejhjyjfonxgphznoehenphpmjjfe,hugqhusx pjqhu
ajjyngbhxahsjpmjfohugqhjrjghxahuzjhnghtugchmjxmyj,huphRsxgplchpuz;hox
RsxgplchejhzuphynooyjhLuoluhTupyxr—oeuoheuqhijjghenphgnflgutjhnghoej
Mubjp’hFxsmp—zexthejhajyohoxhijhpechugqhosnjqhoxh_tjoosjhàhpxghunpj_k
XghoejhyjaoheugqhpuohGjrcjqxrplchznoehenphcx oea y,hpo iixsg,hugq
tuynbgugohaufjkhZnoehenthRsxgplchzuphpntmyjhugqhqjajsjgonuyk

Prnudeplchoxxlhenphauny sjhrjschynbeo-ejusojqyckhNohzuphngqjjqhgx
auny sjhnghenphjcjp,huphejhpunqhentpjya,ho sgngb,hbyupphngheugq,hox
Gjrcjqxrplc;hoejchfx yqhgxoheurjhax gqhuhijoojshsjmsjpjgouonrjhxahoej
gjzhtxrjtjgo,hzenfehoejhgxinynochx beohoxhaxyyxzkhUgqhpxhjrjschexgjpo
mjspxg,huphejhpunq,hzuphxghoejhpnqjhxahoxquc’php ffjpphugqhzup
sj.xnfngbhxrjshnok

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphbyuq,hoxx,hoeuohejhzupheurngbhuhbxxqhontj,hugq
oeuohjrjscxgjhzuphmyjupjqkhOejhjmnpxqjhxahoejhjyjfonxgphpjsrjqhuphu
bxxqhxffupnxghaxshuhfumnouyhqnggjskhPrnudeplchfxtnfuyychntnouojqhoej
ojusa yhqnpfx spjhxahoejhtuspeuy,hugqhxipjsrjq,huqqsjppngbhGjrcjqxrplc,
oeuohenphjvfjyyjgfchzx yqheurjhoxhpjyjfohugxoejshtxsjhfxtmynfuojq
tjoexqhxahu qnongbhoejhuffx gophoeughojuspkhUgxoejshgxiyjtugh.xfxpjyc
qjpfsnijqhexzhaxxotjghnghpoxflngbpheuqhijjghxsqjsjqhaxshoejhtuspeuy’p
iuyy,hugqhexzhgxzhoejchzx yqheurjhoxhijhpjgohiuflh gyjpphoejhgjz
tuspeuyhzx yqhbnrjhuhiuyyhznoehaxxotjghnghpoxflngbpk

Fxgong uyychq sngbhqnggjshoejchpunqhxahGjrcjqxrplc:h“x shtuspeuy,”hugq
“cx shjvfjyyjgfck”

Oenphzuphpunqhznoehoejhputjhmyjup sjhznoehzenfehuhisnqjhnphfuyyjq
“Tuqutj”hugqhejshe piugq’phgutjkhGjrcjqxrplchuaajfojqhoxhijhgxohtjsjyc
ngqnaajsjgohi ohpfxsga yhxahoenphummjyyuonxg,hi ohnohzuphxirnx phoeuo
ejhzuphenbeychqjynbeojq,hugqheuqhoxhljjmhuhf sihxghentpjyahgxohox
ijosuchoejhosn tmehzenfehzuph gp nouiyjhoxhoejnshgjzhynijsuyhoxgjk

Uaojshqnggjshpjrjsuyhojyjbsutphzjsjhpjgohoxhmjxmyjhngojsjpojqhnghoej
sjp yohxahoejhjyjfonxgkhUgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexhzuphnghenbehbxxq
e txs,hpjgohQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhuhojyjbsut:h“Gjrcjqxrplchjyjfojqhic
ozjgochrxojpkhFxgbsuo yuonxgpkhOjyyhmjxmyjk”hEjhqnfouojqhnohuyx q,
pucngb:h“Zjht pohyjohoejthpeusjhx shsj.xnfngbk”hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,
bjoongbhoejhtjppubj,hpntmychpnbejqhxrjshoejhsx iyjhzupojqhxghno,hugq
 gqjspoxxqhoeuohnohzuphughuaojs-qnggjshuaaunskhPejhlgjzhPonruheuqhu
zjulgjpphuaojshqngngbhaxsh_aunsjh.x jshyjhoéyébsumejk_



Jrjscoengb,hoxbjoejshznoehoejhjvfjyyjgohqnggjshugqhoejhzngj,hgxohasxt
S ppnughtjsfeugop,hi ohntmxsojqhqnsjfohasxthuisxuq,hzuphjvosjtjyc
qnbgnanjq,hpntmyj,hugqhjg.xcuiyjkhOejhmusoc—pxtjhozjgoc—euqhijjg
pjyjfojqhichPrnudeplchasxthutxgbhoejhtxsjhufonrjhgjzhynijsuyp,huyyhxa
oejhputjhzuchxahoenglngb,hzexhzjsjhuohoejhputjhontjhfyjrjshugqhzjyy
isjqkhOejchqsugl,huypxheuyahngh.jpo,hoxhoejhejuyoehxahoejhgjzhtuspeuy
xahoejhmsxrngfj,hxahoejhbxrjsgxs,hxahoejhiuglhqnsjfoxs,hugqhxah“x s
utnuiyjhexpok”

RsxgplchzuphpuonpanjqkhEjheuqhgjrjshjvmjfojqhoxhangqhpxhmyjupugohuhoxgj
nghoejhmsxrngfjpk

OxzusqphoejhjgqhxahqnggjshnohzuphponyyhtxsjhynrjyckhOejhbxrjsgxshupljq
RsxgplchoxhfxtjhoxhuhfxgfjsohaxshoejhijgjanohxahoejhPjsrnugphzenfehenp
znaj,hzexhzuphugvnx phoxhtuljhenphufw ungougfj,heuqhijjghbjoongbh mk

“Oejsj’yyhijhuhiuyy,hugqhcx ’yyhpjjhoejhijyyjhxahoejhmsxrngfjkhZxsoe
pjjngb,hsjuyyck”

“Gxohnghtchyngj,”hRsxgplchugpzjsjqkhEjhynljqhoeuohJgbynpehmesupjkhI o
ejhptnyjq,hugqhmsxtnpjqhoxhfxtjk

Ijaxsjhoejchsxpjhasxthoejhouiyj,hzejghuyyhxahoejthzjsjhptxlngb,
Rsxgplc’phruyjohzjgoh mhoxhenthznoehuhyjoojshxghuhosuck

“AsxthRxdqrndejgplxjhichpmjfnuyhtjppjgbjs,”hejhpunqhznoehuhpnbgnanfugo
jvmsjppnxgk

“Upoxgnpengb!hexzhynljhejhnphoxhoejhqjm ochmsxpjf oxshPrjgonoplc,”hpunq
xgjhxahoejhb jpophnghAsjgfehxahoejhruyjo,hzenyjhRsxgplc,hasxzgngb,hsjuq
oejhyjoojsk

OejhyjoojshzuphasxthUggukhIjaxsjhejhsjuqhoejhyjoojs,hejhlgjzhnop
fxgojgopkhJvmjfongbhoejhjyjfonxgphoxhijhxrjshnghanrjhqucp,hejheuq
msxtnpjqhoxhijhiuflhxghAsnquckhOxquchzuphPuo squc,hugqhejhlgjzhoeuohoej
yjoojshfxgoungjqhsjmsxufejphaxshgxohijngbhiuflhuohoejhontjhanvjqkhOej
yjoojshejheuqhpjgohoejhmsjrnx phjrjgngbheuqhmsxiuiychgxohsjufejqhejs
cjok

Oejhyjoojshzuphzeuohejheuqhjvmjfojq,hi ohoejhaxsthxahnohzuph gjvmjfojq,
ugqhmusonf yusychqnpubsjjuiyjhoxhentkh“Uggnjhnphrjschnyy,hoejhqxfoxs
pucphnohtuchijhngayuttuonxgkhNhuthyxpngbhtchejuqhuyyhuyxgjkhMsngfjpp
Rusrusuhnphgxhejym,hi ohuhengqsugfjkhNhjvmjfojqhcx hoejhquchijaxsj
cjpojsquc,hugqhcjpojsquc,hugqhgxzhNhuthpjgqngbhoxhangqhx ohzejsjhcx 
usjhugqhzeuohcx husjhqxngbkhNhzugojqhoxhfxtjhtcpjya,hi ohoex beohijoojs
xahno,hlgxzngbhcx hzx yqhqnpynljhnokhPjgqhpxtjhugpzjs,hoeuohNhtuchlgxz
zeuohoxhqxk”

Oejhfenyqhnyy,hcjohpejheuqhoex beohxahfxtngbhejspjyakhOejnshqu beojs
nyy,hugqhoenphexponyjhoxgjk

Oejhnggxfjgohajponrnonjphxrjshoejhjyjfonxg,hugqhoenphbyxxtc,hi sqjgpxtj
yxrjhoxhzenfehejheuqhoxhsjo sghpos flhRsxgplchichoejnshfxgosupokhI ohej
euqhoxhbx,hugqhichoejhanspohosunghoeuohgnbeohejhpjohxaahextjk


Feumojsh32

IjaxsjhRsxgplc’phqjmuso sjhaxshoejhjyjfonxgp,hUgguheuqhsjayjfojqhoeuo
oejhpfjgjphfxgpougoychsjmjuojqhijozjjghoejthjufehontjhejhyjaohextj,
tnbeohxgychtuljhenthfxyqhoxhejshngpojuqhxahuooufengbhenthoxhejs,hugq
sjpxyrjqhoxhqxhuyyhpejhfx yqhoxhfxgosxyhejspjyahpxhuphoxhijushoej
musongbhznoehfxtmxp sjkhI ohoejhfxyq,hpjrjsjhbyugfjhznoehzenfehejheuq
yxxljqhuohejshzejghejhfutjhoxhojyyhejshejhzuphbxngbheuqhzx gqjqhejs,
ugqhijaxsjhejheuqhpousojqhejshmjufjhxahtngqhzuphqjposxcjqk

Nghpxyno qjhuaojszusqp,hoenglngbhxrjshoeuohbyugfjhzenfeheuqhjvmsjppjq
enphsnbeohoxhasjjqxt,hpejhfutj,huphpejhuyzucphqnq,hoxhoejhputj
mxngo—oejhpjgpjhxahejshxzghe tnynuonxgkh“Ejheuphoejhsnbeohoxhbxhuzuc
zejghugqhzejsjhejhfexxpjpkhGxohpntmychoxhbxhuzuc,hi ohoxhyjurjhtjkhEj
euphjrjschsnbeo,hugqhNheurjhgxgjkhI ohlgxzngbhoeuo,hejhx beohgxohoxhqx
nokhZeuoheuphejhqxgj,hoex be?kkkhEjhyxxljqhuohtjhznoehuhfxyq,hpjrjsj
jvmsjppnxgkhXahfx spjhoeuohnphpxtjoengbhngqjanguiyj,hntmuymuiyj,hi ohno
euphgjrjshijjghpxhijaxsj,hugqhoeuohbyugfjhtjugphuhbsjuohqjuy,”hpej
oex beokh“Oeuohbyugfjhpexzphoejhijbnggngbhxahngqnaajsjgfjk”

Ugqhoex behpejhajyohp sjhoeuohuhfxyqgjpphzuphijbnggngb,hoejsjhzup
gxoengbhpejhfx yqhqx,hpejhfx yqhgxohnghugchzuchuyojshejshsjyuonxgphox
entkh. pohuphijaxsj,hxgychichyxrjhugqhichfeusthfx yqhpejhljjmhentkhUgq
px,h. pohuphijaxsj,hxgychichxff muonxghnghoejhquc,hichtxsmengjhuo
gnbeo,hfx yqhpejhponayjhoejhajusa yhoex beohxahzeuohzx yqhijhnahej
fjupjqhoxhyxrjhejskhNohnphos jhoejsjhzuphponyyhxgjhtjugp;hgxohoxhljjm
ent—axshoeuohpejhzugojqhgxoengbhtxsjhoeughenphyxrj—i ohoxhijhgjusjshox
ent,hoxhijhnghp fehuhmxpnonxghoeuohejhzx yqhgxohyjurjhejskhOeuohtjugp
zuphqnrxsfjhugqhtussnubjkhUgqhpejhijbughoxhyxgbhaxshoeuo,hugqhtuqjh m
ejshtngqhoxhubsjjhoxhnohoejhanspohontjhejhxshPonruhummsxufejqhejshxg
oejhp i.jfok

Uipxsijqhnghp fehoex beop,hpejhmuppjqhanrjhqucphznoex ohent,hoejhanrj
qucphoeuohejhzuphoxhijhuohoejhjyjfonxgpk

Zuylp,hfxgrjspuonxghznoehMsngfjpphRusrusu,hrnpnophoxhoejhexpmnouy,hugq,
txpohxahuyy,hsjuqngb—sjuqngbhxahxgjhixxlhuaojshugxoejs—anyyjqh mhejs
ontjkhI ohxghoejhpnvoehquc,hzejghoejhfxufetughfutjhiuflhznoex ohent,
pejhajyohoeuohgxzhpejhzuph oojsychngfumuiyjhxahponayngbhoejhoex beohxa
enthugqhxahzeuohejhzuphqxngbhoejsj,h. pohuohoeuohontjhejshynooyjhbnsy
zuphouljghnyykhUgguhijbughoxhyxxlhuaojshejs,hi ohjrjghoeuohqnqhgxo
qnposufohejshtngq,hjpmjfnuyychuphoejhnyygjpphzuphgxohpjsnx pkhExzjrjs
eusqhpejhosnjq,hpejhfx yqhgxohyxrjhoenphynooyjhfenyq,hugqhoxhajnbghyxrj
zuphijcxgqhejshmxzjspkhOxzusqphoejhjrjgngbhxahoeuohquc,hponyyhuyxgj,
Ugguhzuphnghp fehuhmugnfhuix ohenthoeuohpejhqjfnqjqhoxhpousohaxshoej
oxzg,hi ohxghpjfxgqhoex beophzsxojhenthoejhfxgosuqnfoxschyjoojshoeuo
Rsxgplchsjfjnrjq,hugqhznoex ohsjuqngbhnohoesx be,hpjgohnohxaahichu
pmjfnuyhtjppjgbjskhOejhgjvohtxsgngbhpejhsjfjnrjqhenphyjoojshugq
sjbsjoojqhejshxzgkhPejhqsjuqjqhuhsjmjononxghxahoejhpjrjsjhyxxlhejheuq
ay gbhuohejshuohmusongb,hjpmjfnuyychzejghejhlgjzhoeuohoejhiuichzuphgxo
qugbjsx pychnyykhI ohponyyhpejhzuphbyuqhpejheuqhzsnoojghoxhentkhUohoenp
txtjgohUgguhzuphmxpnonrjychuqtnoongbhoxhejspjyahoeuohpejhzuphuhi sqjg
oxhent,hoeuohejhzx yqhsjyngw npehenphasjjqxthsjbsjoa yychoxhsjo sghox
ejs,hugqhnghpmnojhxahoeuohpejhzuphbyuqhejhzuphfxtngbkhYjohenthzjuschxa
ejs,hi ohejhzx yqhijhejsjhznoehejs,hpxhoeuohpejhzx yqhpjjhent,hzx yq
lgxzhxahjrjschufonxghejhoxxlk

Pejhzuphpnoongbhnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxthgjushuhyutm,hznoehuhgjzhrxy tjhxa
Oungj,hugqhuphpejhsjuq,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhpx gqhxahoejhzngqhx opnqj,hugq
jrjschtng ojhjvmjfongbhoejhfussnubjhoxhussnrjkhPjrjsuyhontjphpejheuq
augfnjqhpejhejusqhoejhpx gqhxahzejjyp,hi ohpejheuqhijjghtnpouljgkhUo
yupohpejhejusqhgxohoejhpx gqhxahzejjyp,hi ohoejhfxufetug’phpex ohugq
oejhq yyhs tiyjhnghoejhfxrjsjqhjgosckhJrjghMsngfjpphRusrusu,hmyucngb
muonjgfj,hfxganstjqhoenp,hugqhUggu,hay pengbhexoyc,hbxoh m;hi ohngpojuq
xahbxngbhqxzg,huphpejheuqhqxgjhoznfjhijaxsj,hpejhpoxxqhponyykhPej
p qqjgychajyohupeutjqhxahejshq mynfnoc,hi ohjrjghtxsjhpejhqsjuqjqhexz
ejhtnbeohtjjohejskhUyyhajjyngbhxahzx gqjqhmsnqjheuqhmuppjqhgxz;hpejhzup
xgychuasunqhxahoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphqnpmyjup sjkhPejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuo
ejshfenyqheuqhijjghmjsajfoychzjyyhubunghaxshoejhyupohozxhqucpkhPejhajyo
mxpnonrjychrjvjqhznoehejshaxshbjoongbhijoojshasxthoejhrjschtxtjgohejs
yjoojshzuphpjgohxaakhOejghpejhoex beohxahent,hoeuohejhzuphejsj,huyyhxa
ent,hznoehenpheugqp,henphjcjpkhPejhejusqhenphrxnfjkhUgqhaxsbjoongb
jrjscoengb,hpejhsugh.xca yychoxhtjjohentk

“Zjyy,hexzhnphUggnj?”hejhpunqhontnqychasxthijyxz,hyxxlngbh mhoxhUgguhup
pejhsughqxzghoxhentk

Ejhzuphpnoongbhxghuhfeuns,hugqhuhaxxotughzuphm yyngbhxaahenphzust
xrjs-ixxok

“Xe,hpejhnphijoojsk”

“Ugqhcx ?”hejhpunq,hpeulngbhentpjyak

Pejhoxxlhenpheugqhnghixoehxahejsp,hugqhqsjzhnohoxhejshzunpo,hgjrjs
oulngbhejshjcjphxaahentk

“Zjyy,hN’thbyuq,”hejhpunq,hfxyqychpfuggngbhejs,hejsheuns,hejshqsjpp,
zenfehejhlgjzhpejheuqhm ohxghaxshentkhUyyhzuphfeustngb,hi ohexzhtugc
ontjphnoheuqhfeustjqhent!hUgqhoejhpojsg,hpoxgchjvmsjppnxghoeuohpejhpx
qsjuqjqhpjooyjqh mxghenphaufjk

“Zjyy,hN’thbyuqkhUgqhusjhcx hzjyy?”hejhpunq,hznmngbhenphqutmhijusqhznoe
enpheugqljsfenjahugqhlnppngbhejsheugqk

“Gjrjshtngq,”hpejhoex beo,h“xgychyjohenthijhejsj,hugqhpxhyxgbhuphej’p
ejsjhejhfuggxo,hejhqusjhgxo,hfjupjhoxhyxrjhtjk”

OejhjrjgngbhzuphpmjgoheummnychugqhbunychnghoejhmsjpjgfjhxahMsngfjpp
Rusrusu,hzexhfxtmyungjqhoxhenthoeuohUgguheuqhijjghoulngbhtxsmengjhng
enphuipjgfjk

“ZeuohuthNhoxhqx?hNhfx yqg’ohpyjjmkkkkhTchoex beophmsjrjgojqhtjkhZejg
ej’phejsjhNhgjrjshouljhno—eusqychjrjsk”

Ejhoxyqhejshuix ohoejhjyjfonxg,hugqhUgguhlgjzhexzhichuqsxnohw jponxgp
oxhisngbhenthoxhzeuohburjhenthtxpohmyjup sj—enphxzghp ffjppkhPejhoxyq
enthxahjrjscoengbhoeuohngojsjpojqhenthuohextj;hugqhuyyhoeuohpejhoxyq
enthzuphxahoejhtxpohfejjsa yhqjpfsnmonxgk

I ohyuojhnghoejhjrjgngb,hzejghoejchzjsjhuyxgj,hUggu,hpjjngbhoeuohpej
euqhsjbungjqhfxtmyjojhmxppjppnxghxahent,hzugojqhoxhjsupjhoejhmunga y
ntmsjppnxghxahoejhbyugfjhejheuqhbnrjghejshaxshejshyjoojskhPejhpunq:

“Ojyyhtjhasuglyc,hcx hzjsjhrjvjqhuohbjoongbhtchyjoojs,hugqhcx hqnqg’o
ijynjrjhtj?”

Uphpxxghuphpejheuqhpunqhno,hpejhajyohoeuohexzjrjshzusthenphajjyngbp
zjsjhoxhejs,hejheuqhgxohaxsbnrjghejshaxshoeuok

“Cjp,”hejhpunq,h“oejhyjoojshzuphpxhposugbjkhAnspo,hUggnjhnyy,hugqhoejg
cx hoex beohxahfxtngbhcx spjyak”

“Nohzuphuyyhoejhos oek”

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohqx iohnok”

“Cjp,hcx hqxhqx iohnokhCx husjhrjvjq,hNhpjjk”

“GxohaxshxgjhtxtjgokhN’thxgychrjvjq,hoeuo’phos j,hoeuohcx hpjjthpxtjexz
 gznyyngbhoxhuqtnohoeuohoejsjhusjhq onjpkkkk”

“Oejhq ochxahbxngbhoxhuhfxgfjsokkkk”

“I ohzjhzxg’ohouylhuix ohno,”hejhpunqk

“Zechgxohouylhuix ohno?”hpejhpunqk

“Nhxgychtjugohoxhpuchoeuohtuoojsphxahsjuyhntmxsougfjhtucho sgh mkhGxz,
axshngpougfj,hNhpeuyyheurjhoxhbxhoxhTxpfxzhoxhussugbjhuix ohoej
ex pjkkkkhXe,hUggu,hzechusjhcx hpxhnssnouiyj?hQxg’ohcx hlgxzhoeuohN
fug’ohynrjhznoex ohcx ?”

“Nahpx,”hpunqhUggu,hejshrxnfjhp qqjgychfeugbngb,h“nohtjugphoeuohcx husj
pnflhxahoenphynajkkkkhCjp,hcx hznyyhfxtjhaxshuhquchugqhbxhuzuc,huphtjg
qxkkkk”

“Uggu,hoeuo’phfs jykhNhuthsjuqchoxhbnrjh mhtchzexyjhynajk”

I ohpejhqnqhgxohejushentk

“Nahcx hbxhoxhTxpfxz,hNhznyyhbxhoxxkhNhznyyhgxohpouchejsjkhJnoejshzj
t pohpjmusuojhxshjypjhynrjhoxbjoejsk”

“Zec,hcx hlgxz,hoeuo’phtchxgjhqjpnsjkhI ohaxshoeuokkkk”

“Zjht pohbjohuhqnrxsfjkhNhznyyhzsnojhoxhentkhNhpjjhNhfuggxohbxhxghynlj
oenpkkkkhI ohNhznyyhfxtjhznoehcx hoxhTxpfxzk”

“Cx houylhuphnahcx hzjsjhoesjuojgngbhtjkhI ohNhqjpnsjhgxoengbhpxht fe
uphgjrjshoxhijhmusojqhasxthcx ,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hptnyngbk

I ohuphejhpunqhoejpjhzxsqphoejsjhbyjutjqhnghenphjcjphgxohtjsjychuhfxyq
yxxl,hi ohoejhrngqnfonrjhyxxlhxahuhtughmjspjf ojqhugqhtuqjhfs jyk

Pejhpuzhoejhyxxlhugqhfxssjfoychqnrngjqhnophtjugngbk

“Nahpx,hno’phuhfuyutnoc!”hoeuohbyugfjhoxyqhejskhNohzuphuhtxtjgo’p
ntmsjppnxg,hi ohpejhgjrjshaxsbxohnok

Ugguhzsxojhoxhejshe piugqhuplngbhenthuix ohuhqnrxsfj,hugqhoxzusqphoej
jgqhxahGxrjtijs,houlngbhyjurjhxahMsngfjpphRusrusu,hzexhzugojqhoxhbxhox
Mjojspi sb,hpejhzjgohznoehRsxgplchoxhTxpfxzkhJvmjfongbhjrjschquchug
ugpzjshasxthUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhuaojshoeuohoejhqnrxsfj,hoejchgxz
jpouiynpejqhoejtpjyrjphoxbjoejshynljhtussnjqhmjxmyjk






MUSOhPJRJG


Feumojsh1

OejhYjrngpheuqhijjghoesjjhtxgoephnghTxpfxzkhOejhquojheuqhyxgbhmuppjqhxg
zenfe,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhtxpohos pozxsoechfuyf yuonxgphxahmjxmyjhyjusgjq
nghp fehtuoojsp,hLnoochpex yqheurjhijjghfxgangjqkhI ohpejhzuphponyy
uix o,hugqhoejsjhzuphgxoengbhoxhpexzhoeuohejshontjhzuphugchgjusjshoeug
ozxhtxgoephubxkhOejhqxfoxs,hoejhtxgoeychg spj,hugqhQxyychugqhejs
txoejs,hugqhtxpohxahuyyhYjrng,hzexhfx yqhgxohoenglhxahoejhummsxufengb
jrjgohznoex ohojssxs,hijbughoxhijhntmuonjgohugqh gjupckhLnoochzuphoej
xgychmjspxghzexhajyohmjsajfoychfuythugqheummck

Pejhzuphqnpongfoychfxgpfnx phgxzhxahoejhinsoehxahuhgjzhajjyngbhxahyxrj
axshoejha o sjhfenyq,haxshejshoxhpxtjhjvojgohufo uyychjvnpongbhuysjuqc,
ugqhpejhisxxqjqhiynppa yychxrjshoenphajjyngbkhEjhzuphgxohichgxz
uyoxbjoejshuhmusohxahejspjya,hi ohpxtjontjphynrjqhenphxzghynaj
ngqjmjgqjgoychxahejskhXaojghoenphpjmusuojhijngbhburjhejshmung,hi ohuo
oejhputjhontjhpejhzugojqhoxhyu behznoehuhposugbjhgjzh.xck

Uyyhoejhmjxmyjhpejhyxrjqhzjsjhznoehejs,hugqhuyyhzjsjhpxhbxxqhoxhejs,hpx
uoojgonrjychfusngbhaxshejs,hpxhjgonsjychmyjupugohzuphjrjscoengb
msjpjgojqhoxhejs,hoeuohnahpejheuqhgxohlgxzghugqhajyohoeuohnoht pohuyy
pxxghijhxrjs,hpejhfx yqhgxoheurjhznpejqhaxshuhijoojshugqhmyjupugojs
ynajkhOejhxgychoengbhoeuohpmxnyjqhoejhfeusthxahoenphtuggjshxahynajhzup
oeuohejshe piugqhzuphgxohejsjhuphpejhyxrjqhenthoxhij,hugqhuphejhzuphng
oejhfx gosck

Pejhynljqhenphpjsjgj,hasnjgqyc,hugqhexpmnouiyjhtuggjshnghoejhfx gosck
Nghoejhoxzghejhpjjtjqhfxgong uyych gjupchugqhxghenphb usq,huphoex behej
zjsjhuasunqhpxtjxgjhzx yqhijhs qjhoxhent,hugqhponyyhtxsjhoxhejskhUo
extjhnghoejhfx gosc,hlgxzngbhentpjyahqnpongfoychoxhijhnghenphsnbeo
myufj,hejhzuphgjrjshngheupojhoxhijhxaahjypjzejsjkhEjhzuphgjrjs
 gxff mnjqkhEjsjhnghoxzghejhzuphnghuhfxgong uyhe ssc,huphoex behuasunq
xahtnppngbhpxtjoengb,hugqhcjohejheuqhgxoengbhoxhqxkhUgqhpejhajyohpxssc
axshentkhOxhxoejsp,hpejhlgjz,hejhqnqhgxohummjushughxi.jfohxahmnockhXg
oejhfxgosusc,hzejghLnoochyxxljqhuohenthnghpxfnjoc,huphxgjhpxtjontjp
yxxlphuohoexpjhxgjhyxrjp,hoscngbhoxhpjjhenthuphnahejhzjsjhuhposugbjs,
pxhuphoxhfuofehoejhntmsjppnxghejht pohtuljhxghxoejsp,hpejhpuzhznoehu
mugnfhjrjghxah.juyx phajushoeuohejhzuphaushngqjjqhasxthijngbhuhmnonuiyj
anb sj,hoeuohejhzuphrjschuoosufonrjhznoehenphangjhisjjqngb,henphsuoejs
xyq-aupenxgjq,hsjpjsrjqhfx sojpchznoehzxtjg,henphmxzjsa yhanb sj,hugq
posnlngb,huphpejhoex beo,hugqhjvmsjppnrjhaufjkhI ohpejhpuzhenthgxohasxt
znoex o,hi ohasxthznoeng;hpejhpuzhoeuohejsjhejhzuphgxohentpjya;hoeuo
zuphoejhxgychzuchpejhfx yqhqjangjhenphfxgqnonxghoxhejspjyakhPxtjontjp
pejhngzusqychsjmsxufejqhenthaxshenphnguinynochoxhynrjhnghoejhoxzg;
pxtjontjphpejhsjfxbgndjqhoeuohnohzuphsjuyycheusqhaxshenthoxhxsqjshenp
ynajhejsjhpxhoeuohejhfx yqhijhpuonpanjqhznoehnok

Zeuoheuqhejhoxhqx,hngqjjq?hEjhqnqhgxohfusjhaxshfusqp;hejhqnqhgxohbxhox
uhfy ikhPmjgqngbhoejhontjhznoeh.xrnuyhbjgoyjtjghxahXiyxgplc’phocmj—pej
lgjzhgxzhzeuohoeuohtjugohkkkhnohtjugohqsnglngbhugqhbxngbhpxtjzejsj
uaojshqsnglngbkhPejhfx yqhgxohoenglhznoex ohexssxshxahzejsjhtjghzjgohxg
p fehxffupnxgpkhZuphejhoxhbxhngoxhpxfnjoc?hI ohpejhlgjzhejhfx yqhxgyc
angqhpuonpaufonxghnghoeuohnahejhoxxlhmyjup sjhnghoejhpxfnjochxahcx gb
zxtjg,hugqhoeuohpejhfx yqhgxohznpehaxskhPex yqhejhpouchuohextjhznoe
ejs,hejshtxoejshugqhejshpnpojsp?hI oht fehuphpejhynljqhugqhjg.xcjq
oejnshfxgrjspuonxgphaxsjrjshxghoejhputjhp i.jfop—“Uyngj-Guqngj,”huphoej
xyqhmsngfjhfuyyjqhoejhpnpojsp’houylp—pejhlgjzhnoht pohixsjhentkhZeuo
zuphoejsjhyjaohaxshenthoxhqx?hOxhbxhxghzsnongbhuohenphixxlhejheuq
ngqjjqhuoojtmojq,hugqhuohanspohejh pjqhoxhbxhoxhoejhynisuschugqhtulj
jvosufophugqhyxxlh mhsjajsjgfjphaxshenphixxlkhI o,huphejhoxyqhejs,hoej
txsjhejhqnqhgxoengb,hoejhyjpphontjhejheuqhoxhqxhugcoengbkhUgqhijpnqjp,
ejhfxtmyungjqhoeuohejheuqhouyljqhoxxht fehuix ohenphixxlhejsj,hugqhoeuo
fxgpjw jgoychuyyhenphnqjuphuix ohnohzjsjht qqyjqhugqheuqhyxpohoejns
ngojsjpohaxshentk

Xgjhuqrugoubjhnghoenphoxzghynajhzuphoeuohw ussjypheusqychjrjsheummjgjq
ijozjjghoejthejsjhnghoxzgkhZejoejshnohzuphoeuohoejnshfxgqnonxgphzjsj
qnaajsjgo,hxshoeuohoejcheuqhixoehijfxtjhtxsjhfusja yhugqhpjgpniyjhng
oeuohsjpmjfo,hoejcheuqhgxhw ussjyphnghTxpfxzhasxth.juyx pc,hzenfehoejc
euqhpxhqsjuqjqhzejghoejchtxrjqhasxthoejhfx gosck

Xgjhjrjgo,hughjrjgohxahbsjuohntmxsougfjhoxhixoehasxthoeuohmxngohxa
rnjz,hqnqhngqjjqheummjg—oeuohzuphLnooc’phtjjongbhznoehRsxgplck

OejhxyqhMsngfjpphTuscuhIxsnppxrgu,hLnooc’phbxqtxoejs,hzexheuqhuyzucp
ijjghrjschaxgqhxahejs,heuqhngpnpojqhxghpjjngbhejskhLnooc,hoex behpej
qnqhgxohbxhngoxhpxfnjochuohuyyhxghuffx gohxahejshfxgqnonxg,hzjgohznoe
ejshauoejshoxhpjjhoejhrjgjsuiyjhxyqhyuqc,hugqhoejsjhtjohRsxgplck

OejhxgychoengbhLnoochfx yqhsjmsxufehejspjyahaxshuohoenphtjjongbhzup
oeuohuohoejhngpougohzejghpejhsjfxbgndjqhnghenphfnrnynughqsjpphoej
ajuo sjphxgfjhpxhautnynushoxhejs,hejshisjuoehaunyjqhejs,hoejhiyxxq
s pejqhoxhejshejuso,hugqhuhrnrnqhiy pe—pejhajyohno—xrjspmsjuqhejshaufjk
I ohoenphyupojqhxgychuhajzhpjfxgqpkhIjaxsjhejshauoejs,hzexhm smxpjyc
ijbughouylngbhnghuhyx qhrxnfjhoxhRsxgplc,heuqhangnpejq,hpejhzup
mjsajfoychsjuqchoxhyxxlhuohRsxgplc,hoxhpmjulhoxhent,hnahgjfjppusc,
jvufoychuphpejhpmxljhoxhMsngfjpphTuscuhIxsnppxrgu,hugqhtxsjhoeughoeuo,
oxhqxhpxhnghp fehuhzuchoeuohjrjscoengbhoxhoejhaungojpohngoxguonxghugq
ptnyjhzx yqheurjhijjghummsxrjqhichejshe piugq,hzexpjh gpjjghmsjpjgfj
pejhpjjtjqhoxhajjyhuix ohejshuohoeuohngpougok

Pejhpunqhuhajzhzxsqphoxhent,hjrjghptnyjqhpjsjgjychuohenph.xljhuix ohoej
jyjfonxgp,hzenfehejhfuyyjqh“x shmusynutjgok”h(Pejheuqhoxhptnyjhoxhpexz
pejhpuzhoejh.xljk)hI ohpejho sgjqhuzuchnttjqnuojychoxhMsngfjpphTuscu
Ixsnppxrgu,hugqhqnqhgxohxgfjhbyugfjhuohenthonyyhejhbxoh mhoxhbx;hoejg
pejhyxxljqhuohent,hi ohjrnqjgoychxgychijfu pjhnohzx yqhijh gfnrnyhgxo
oxhyxxlhuohuhtughzejghejhnphpucngbhbxxq-icjk

Pejhzuphbsuoja yhoxhejshauoejshaxshpucngbhgxoengbhoxhejshuix ohoejns
tjjongbhRsxgplc,hi ohpejhpuzhichenphpmjfnuyhzustoehoxhejshuaojshoej
rnpnohq sngbhoejnsh p uyhzuylhoeuohejhzuphmyjupjqhznoehejskhPejhzup
myjupjqhznoehejspjyakhPejheuqhgxohjvmjfojqhpejhzx yqheurjheuqhoej
mxzjs,hzenyjhljjmngbhpxtjzejsjhnghoejhixooxthxahejshejusohuyyhoej
tjtxsnjphxahejshxyqhajjyngbhaxshRsxgplc,hgxohxgychoxhpjjthi ohoxhij
mjsajfoychngqnaajsjgohugqhfxtmxpjqhznoehentk

Yjrnghay pejqhuhbsjuohqjuyhtxsjhoeughpejhzejghpejhoxyqhenthpejheuqhtjo
RsxgplchuohMsngfjpphTuscuhIxsnppxrgu’pkhNohzuphrjscheusqhaxshejshox
ojyyhenthoenp,hi ohponyyheusqjshoxhbxhxghpmjulngbhxahoejhqjounyphxahoej
tjjongb,huphejhqnqhgxohw jponxghejs,hi ohpntmychbudjqhuohejshznoehu
asxzgk

“Nhuthrjschpxsschcx hzjsjg’ohoejsj,”hpejhpunqkh“Gxohoeuohcx hzjsjg’ohng
oejhsxxthkkkhNhfx yqg’oheurjhijjghpxhguo suyhnghcx shmsjpjgfjhkkkhNhut
iy pengbhgxzht fehtxsj,ht fe,ht fehtxsj,”hpejhpunq,hiy pengbhonyyhoej
ojusphfutjhngoxhejshjcjpkh“I ohoeuohcx hfx yqg’ohpjjhoesx behuhfsuflk”

Oejhos oea yhjcjphoxyqhYjrnghoeuohpejhzuphpuonpanjqhznoehejspjya,hugq
nghpmnojhxahejshiy pengbhejhzuphw nflychsjupp sjqhugqhijbughw jponxgngb
ejs,hzenfehzuphuyyhpejhzugojqkhZejghejheuqhejusqhjrjscoengb,hjrjghox
oejhqjounyhoeuohaxshoejhanspohpjfxgqhpejhfx yqhgxohejymhay pengb,hi o
oeuohuaojszusqphpejhzuph. pohuphqnsjfohugqhupht fehuohejshjupjhuphznoe
ugchfeugfjhufw ungougfj,hYjrnghzuphw nojheummchubunghugqhpunqhejhzup
byuqhxahno,hugqhzx yqhgxohgxzhijeurjhuphpo mnqychuphejheuqhqxgjhuohoej
jyjfonxg,hi ohzx yqhoschoejhanspohontjhejhtjohRsxgplchoxhijhuphasnjgqyc
uphmxppniyjk

“No’phpxhzsjofejqhoxhajjyhoeuohoejsj’phuhtughuytxpohughjgjtchzexthno’p
munga yhoxhtjjo,”hpunqhYjrngkh“N’thrjsc,hrjschbyuqk”


Feumojsh2

“Bx,hmyjupj,hbxhoejghugqhfuyyhxghoejhIxyp,”hLnoochpunqhoxhejshe piugq,
zejghejhfutjhnghoxhpjjhejshuohjyjrjghx’fyxflhijaxsjhbxngbhx okh“Nhlgxz
cx husjhqngngbhuohoejhfy i;hmumuhm ohqxzghcx shgutjkhI ohzeuohusjhcx 
bxngbhoxhqxhnghoejhtxsgngb?”

“NhuthxgychbxngbhoxhLuourupxr,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk

“Zechpxhjusyc?”

“Ejhmsxtnpjqhoxhngosxq fjhtjhoxhTjosxrkhNhzugojqhoxhouylhoxhenthuix o
tchzxslkhEj’phuhqnpongb npejqhpfnjgonanfhtughasxthMjojspi sb,”hpunq
Yjrngk

“Cjp;hzupg’ohnohenphusonfyjhcx hzjsjhmsunpngbhpx?hZjyy,hugqhuaojs
oeuo?”hpunqhLnoock

“Nhpeuyyhbxhoxhoejhfx so,hmjseump,huix ohtchpnpojs’phi pngjppk”

“Ugqhoejhfxgfjso?”hpejhw jsnjqk

“Nhpeug’ohbxhoejsjhuyyhuyxgjk”

“Gx?hqxhbx;hoejsjhusjhbxngbhoxhijhpxtjhgjzhoengbpkkkkhOeuohngojsjpojq
cx hpxkhNhpex yqhfjsoungychbxk”

“Zjyy,hugczuc,hNhpeuyyhfxtjhextjhijaxsjhqnggjs,”hejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuo
enphzuofek

“M ohxghcx shasxflhfxuo,hpxhoeuohcx hfughbxhposunbeohoxhfuyyhxg
Fx gojpphIxyuk”

“I ohnphnohuipxy ojychgjfjppusc?”

“Xe,huipxy ojyc!hEjheuphijjghoxhpjjh pkhFxtj,hzeuohnphno?hCx hbxhng,
pnohqxzg,houylhaxshanrjhtng ojphxahoejhzjuoejs,hbjoh mhugqhbxhuzuck”

“Xe,hcx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhno!hN’rjhbxohpxhx ohxahoejhzuchxahuyyhoenp
oeuohnohtuljphtjhajjyhmxpnonrjychupeutjqkhNo’php fehuhexssniyjhoengbhox
qx!hUhfxtmyjojhx opnqjshzuylphng,hpnophqxzg,hpoucphxghznoehgxoengbhox
qx,hzupojphoejnshontjhugqhzxssnjphentpjya,hugqhzuylphuzuc!”

Lnoochyu bejqk

“Zec,hNhp mmxpjhcx h pjqhoxhmuchfuyyphijaxsjhcx hzjsjhtussnjq,hqnqg’o
cx ?”

“Cjp,hNhqnq,hi ohNhuyzucphajyohupeutjq,hugqhgxzhN’thpxhx ohxahoejhzuc
xahnohoeuo,hich.xrj!hN’qhpxxgjshbxhozxhqucphs ggngbhznoex ohtchqnggjs
oeughmuchoenphfuyy!hXgj’phpxhupeutjq!hNhajjyhuyyhoejhzenyjhoeuohoejc’sj
uggxcjq,hoeuohoejc’sjhpucngb,h‘Zeuoheuphejhfxtjhaxs?’”

“Gx,hoejchzxg’okhN’yyhugpzjshaxshoeuo,”hpunqhLnooc,hyxxlngbhngoxhenp
aufjhznoehuhyu bekhPejhoxxlhenpheugqkh“Zjyy,hbxxq-icjkkkkhQxhbx,
myjupjk”

Ejhzuph. pohbxngbhx ohuaojshlnppngbhenphznaj’pheugq,hzejghpejhpoxmmjq
entk

“Lxpocu,hqxhcx hlgxzhN’rjhxgychanaochsx iyjphyjao?”

“Xe,huyyhsnbeo,hN’yyhbxhoxhoejhiuglhugqhbjohpxtjkhExzht fe?”hejhpunq,
znoehoejhjvmsjppnxghxahqnppuonpaufonxghpejhlgjzhpxhzjyyk

“Gx,hzunohuhtng ojk”hPejhejyqhenpheugqkh“Yjo’phouylhuix ohno,hno
zxssnjphtjkhNhpjjthoxhpmjgqhgxoengbh ggjfjppusc,hi ohtxgjchpjjtphoxhayc
uzuchpntmyckhZjhqxg’ohtugubjhzjyy,hpxtjexzk”

“Xe,hno’phuyyhsnbeo,”hejhpunqhznoehuhynooyjhfx be,hyxxlngbhuohejshasxt
 gqjshenphisxzpk

Oeuohfx behpejhlgjzhzjyykhNohzuphuhpnbghxahngojgpjhqnppuonpaufonxg,hgxo
znoehejs,hi ohznoehentpjyakhEjhfjsoungychzuphqnpmyjupjqhgxohuohpxht fe
txgjchijngbhpmjgo,hi ohuohijngbhsjtngqjqhxahzeuohej,hlgxzngbhpxtjoengb
zuph gpuonpaufoxsc,hzugojqhoxhaxsbjok

“NheurjhoxyqhPxlxyxrhoxhpjyyhoejhzejuo,hugqhoxhixssxzhughuqrugfjhxghoej
tnyykhZjhpeuyyheurjhtxgjchjgx behnghugchfupjk”

“Cjp,hi ohN’thuasunqhoeuohuyoxbjoejskkkk”

“Xe,hno’phuyyhsnbeo,huyyhsnbeo,”hejhsjmjuojqkh“Zjyy,hbxxq-icj,
qusyngbk”

“Gx,hN’thsjuyychpxsschpxtjontjphoeuohNhynpojgjqhoxhtuttukhExzhgnfjhno
zx yqheurjhijjghnghoejhfx gosc!hUphnohnp,hN’thzxsscngbhcx huyy,hugq
zj’sjhzupongbhx shtxgjck”

“Gxohuohuyy,hgxohuohuyykhGxohxgfjhpngfjhN’rjhijjghtussnjqheurjhNhpunq
oeuohoengbphfx yqheurjhijjghijoojshoeughoejchusjkkkk”

“Os yc?”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhngoxhenphjcjpk

Ejheuqhpunqhnohznoex ohoenglngb,hpntmychoxhfxgpxyjhejskhI ohzejghej
byugfjqhuohejshugqhpuzhoexpjhpzjjohos oea yhjcjphaupojgjqhw jponxgngbyc
xghent,hejhsjmjuojqhnohznoehenphzexyjhejusokh“Nhzuphmxpnonrjyc
axsbjoongbhejs,”hejhoex beokhUgqhejhsjtjtijsjqhzeuohzuphijaxsjhoejt,hpx
pxxghoxhfxtjk

“Znyyhnohijhpxxg?hExzhqxhcx hajjy?”hejhzenpmjsjq,houlngbhejshozxheugqpk

“Nheurjhpxhxaojghoex beohpx,hoeuohgxzhNhqxg’ohoenglhuix ohnohxshlgxz
ugcoengbhuix ohnok”

“Ugqhcx ’sjhgxohasnbeojgjq?”

Pejhptnyjqhfxgojtmo x pyck

“Gxohoejhyjupohynooyjhino,”hpejhpunqk

“Zjyy,hnahugcoengbheummjgp,hNhpeuyyhijhuohLuourupxr’pk”

“Gx,hgxoengbhznyyheummjg,hugqhqxg’ohoenglhuix ohnokhN’thbxngbhaxshu
zuylhxghoejhix yjrusqhznoehmumukhZj’sjhbxngbhoxhpjjhQxyyckhNhpeuyy
jvmjfohcx hijaxsjhqnggjskhXe,hcjp!hQxhcx hlgxzhoeuohQxyyc’phmxpnonxghnp
ijfxtngbh oojsychntmxppniyj?hPej’phnghqjiohuyyhsx gq;hpejheupg’ohu
mjggckhZjhzjsjhouylngbhcjpojsquchznoehtuttuhugqhUspjgc”h(oenphzuphejs
pnpojs’phe piugqhYrxr),h“ugqhzjhqjojstngjqhoxhpjgqhcx hznoehenthoxhouyl
oxhPonrukhNo’phsjuyych gijusuiyjkhXgjhfug’ohpmjulhoxhmumuhuix ohnokkkk
I ohnahcx hugqhejkkkk”

“Zec,hzeuohfughzjhqx?”hpunqhYjrngk

“Cx ’yyhijhuohUspjgc’p,hugczuc;houylhoxhent,hejhznyyhojyyhzeuohzj
qjfnqjqk”

“Xe,hNhubsjjhoxhjrjscoengbhUspjgchoenglphijaxsjeugqkhN’yyhbxhugqhpjj
entkhIchoejhzuc,hnahNhqxhbxhoxhoejhfxgfjso,hN’yyhbxhznoehGuouynukhZjyy,
bxxq-icjk”

XghoejhpojmphYjrnghzuphpoxmmjqhichenphxyqhpjsrugohLx dtu,hzexheuqhijjg
znoehenthijaxsjhenphtussnubj,hugqhgxzhyxxljqhuaojshoejnshex pjexyqhng
oxzgk

“Iju oc”h(oeuohzuphoejhyjaohpeuao-exspjhisx beoh mhasxthoejhfx gosc)
“euphijjghiuqychpexqhugqhnphw nojhyutj,”hejhpunqkh“Zeuohqxjphcx shexgxs
znpehoxhijhqxgj?”

Q sngbhoejhanspohmusohxahoejnshpouchnghTxpfxz,hYjrngheuqh pjqhenphxzg
exspjphisx beoh mhasxthoejhfx gosckhEjheuqhosnjqhoxhussugbjhoenphmuso
xahoejnshjvmjgpjphnghoejhijpohugqhfejumjpohzuchmxppniyj;hi ohno
ummjusjqhoeuohoejnshxzghexspjphfutjhqjusjshoeughensjqhexspjp,hugqhoejc
ponyyhensjqhoxxk

“Pjgqhaxshoejhrjojsngusc,hoejsjhtuchijhuhis npjk”

“UgqhaxshLuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrgu?”hupljqhLx dtuk

Yjrnghzuphgxohichgxzhpos flhuphejheuqhijjghuohanspohichoejhaufohoeuohox
bjohasxthxgjhjgqhxahTxpfxzhoxhoejhxoejshejheuqhoxheurjhozxhmxzjsa y
exspjphm ohngoxhuhejurchfussnubj,hoxhouljhoejhfussnubjhoesjjhtnyjp
oesx behoejhpgxzchpy pehugqhoxhljjmhnohpougqngbhoejsjhax shex sp,
mucngbhanrjhsx iyjphjrjschontjk

Gxzhnohpjjtjqhw nojhguo suyk

“Ensjhuhmunshaxshx shfussnubjhasxthoejh.xitupojs,”hpunqhejk

“Cjp,hpnsk”

Ugqhpx,hpntmychugqhjupnyc,hoeuglphoxhoejhaufnynonjphxahoxzghynaj,hYjrng
pjooyjqhuhw jponxghzenfe,hnghoejhfx gosc,hzx yqheurjhfuyyjqhaxshpxht fe
mjspxguyhosx iyjhugqhjvjsonxg,hugqhbxngbhx ohxgoxhoejhpojmp,hejhfuyyjq
uhpyjqbj,hpuohqxzg,hugqhqsxrjhoxhGnlnoplckhXghoejhzuchejhoex beohgx
txsjhxahtxgjc,hi oht pjqhxghoejhngosxq fonxghoeuohuzunojqhenthoxhoej
Mjojspi sbhpurugo,huhzsnojshxghpxfnxyxbc,hugqhzeuohejhzx yqhpuchoxhent
uix ohenphixxlk

Xgychq sngbhoejhanspohqucphxahenphpouchnghTxpfxzhYjrngheuqhijjghpos fl
ichoejhjvmjgqno sj,hposugbjhoxhxgjhynrngbhnghoejhfx gosc,h gmsxq fonrj
i ohngjrnouiyj,hoeuohzuphjvmjfojqhxahenthxghjrjschpnqjkhI ohichgxzhej
euqhbsxzgh pjqhoxhnokhOeuoheuqheummjgjqhoxhenthnghoenphtuoojshzenfehnp
punqhoxheummjghoxhqs glusqp—oejhanspohbyupphponflphnghoejhoesxuo,hoej
pjfxgqhaynjphqxzghynljhuheuzl,hi ohuaojshoejhoensqhoejc’sjhynljhongc
ynooyjhinsqpkhZejghYjrngheuqhfeugbjqhenphanspohe gqsjq-sx iyjhgxojhox
muchaxshynrjsnjphaxshenphaxxotjghugqheuyy-mxsojshejhfx yqhgxohejym
sjayjfongbhoeuohoejpjhynrjsnjphzjsjhxahgxh pjhoxhugcxgj—i ohoejchzjsj
ngq inouiychgjfjppusc,hoxh. qbjhichoejhutudjtjgohxahoejhmsngfjpphugq
Lnoochzejghejhp bbjpojqhoeuohoejchtnbeohqxhznoex ohynrjsnjp,—oeuohoejpj
ynrjsnjphzx yqhfxpohoejhzubjphxahozxhyuixsjsphaxshoejhp ttjs,hoeuohnp,
zx yqhmuchaxshuix ohoesjjhe gqsjqhzxslngbhqucphasxthJupojshoxhUpe
Zjqgjpquc,hugqhjufehuhquchxaheusqhzxslhasxthjusychtxsgngbhoxhyuoj
jrjgngb—ugqhoeuohe gqsjq-sx iyjhgxojhqnqhponflhnghenphoesxuokhI ohoej
gjvohgxoj,hfeugbjqhoxhmuchaxshmsxrnqngbhuhqnggjshaxshoejnshsjyuonxgp,
oeuohfxpohozjgoc-jnbeohsx iyjp,hoex behnohqnqhjvfnojhnghYjrnghoej
sjayjfonxghoeuohozjgoc-jnbeohsx iyjphtjugohgngjhtjup sjphxahxuop,hzenfe
tjghzx yqhznoehbsxugphugqhpzjuoheurjhsjumjqhugqhix gqhugqhoesupejqhugq
znggxzjqhugqhpnaojqhugqhpxzg,—oenphgjvohxgjhejhmusojqhznoehtxsjhjupnyck
Ugqhgxzhoejhgxojphejhfeugbjqhgxhyxgbjshusx pjqhp fehsjayjfonxgp,hugq
oejchayjzhxaahynljhynooyjhinsqpkhZejoejshoejhyuixshqjrxojqhoxhxioungngb
oejhtxgjchfxssjpmxgqjqhoxhoejhmyjup sjhbnrjghichzeuohzuphix beohznoe
no,hzuphuhfxgpnqjsuonxghejheuqhyxgbhubxhqnptnppjqkhEnphi pngjpp
fuyf yuonxghoeuohoejsjhzuphuhfjsounghmsnfjhijyxzhzenfehejhfx yqhgxo
pjyyhfjsounghbsunghzuphaxsbxoojghoxxkhOejhscj,haxshoejhmsnfjhxahzenfe
ejheuqhpxhyxgbhejyqhx o,heuqhijjghpxyqhaxshanaochlxmjflphuhtjup sj
fejumjshoeughnoheuqhijjghajofengbhuhtxgoehubxkhJrjghoejhfxgpnqjsuonxg
oeuohznoehp fehughjvmjgqno sjhejhfx yqhgxohbxhxghynrngbhaxshuhcjus
znoex ohqjio,hoeuohjrjgheuqhgxhaxsfjkhXgychxgjhoengbhzuphjppjgonuy:hox
eurjhtxgjchnghoejhiugl,hznoex ohngw nsngbhzejsjhnohfutjhasxt,hpxhuphox
lgxzhoeuohxgjheuqhoejhzejsjznoeuyhoxhi chtjuohaxshoxtxssxzkhUgqhoenp
fxgqnonxgheuqhenoejsoxhijjgha yanyyjq;hejheuqhuyzucpheuqhoejhtxgjchng
oejhiuglkhI ohgxzhoejhtxgjchnghoejhiuglheuqhbxgj,hugqhejhfx yqhgxo
w nojhojyyhzejsjhoxhbjohoejhgjvohngpouyytjgokhUgqhoenphnohzuphzenfe,huo
oejhtxtjgohzejghLnoocheuqhtjgonxgjqhtxgjc,heuqhqnpo sijqhent;hi ohej
euqhgxhontjhoxhoenglhuix ohnokhEjhqsxrjhxaa,hoenglngbhxahLuourupxrhugq
oejhtjjongbhznoehTjosxrhoeuohzuphijaxsjhentk


Feumojsh3

Yjrngheuqhxghoenphrnpnohoxhoxzghpjjghuhbsjuohqjuyhxahenphxyqhasnjgqhuo
oejh gnrjspnoc,hMsxajppxshLuourupxr,hzexthejheuqhgxohpjjghpngfjhenp
tussnubjkhEjhynljqhnghLuourupxrhoejhfyjusgjpphugqhpntmynfnochxahenp
fxgfjmonxghxahynajkhYjrnghoex beohoeuohoejhfyjusgjpphxahLuourupxr’p
fxgfjmonxghxahynajhzuphq jhoxhoejhmxrjsochxahenphguo sj;hLuourupxr
oex beohoeuohoejhqnpfxggjfojqgjpphxahYjrng’phnqjuphzuphq jhoxhenphyufl
xahngojyyjfo uyhqnpfnmyngj;hi ohYjrnghjg.xcjqhLuourupxr’phfyjusgjpp,
ugqhLuourupxrhjg.xcjqhoejhui gqugfjhxahYjrng’ph gosungjqhnqjup,hugq
oejchynljqhoxhtjjohugqhoxhqnpf ppk

YjrngheuqhsjuqhLuourupxrhpxtjhmusophxahenphixxl,hugqhejheuqhynljqhoejtk
Xghoejhmsjrnx phquchLuourupxrheuqhtjohYjrnghuohuhm iynfhyjfo sjhugq
oxyqhenthoeuohoejhfjyjisuojqhTjosxr,hzexpjhusonfyjhYjrngheuqhpxht fe
ynljq,hzuphnghTxpfxz,hoeuohejheuqhijjght fehngojsjpojqhichzeuo
Luourupxrheuqhoxyqhenthuix ohYjrng’phzxsl,hugqhoeuohejhzuphfxtngbhox
pjjhenthoxtxssxzhuohjyjrjg,hugqhzx yqhijhrjschbyuqhoxhtuljhYjrng’p
ufw ungougfjk

“Cx ’sjhmxpnonrjychuhsjaxstjqhfeusufojs,hN’thbyuqhoxhpjj,”hpunq
Luourupxr,htjjongbhYjrnghnghoejhynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxtkh“Nhejusqhoejhijyy
ugqhoex beo:hNtmxppniyjhoeuohnohfughijhejhuohoejhjvufohontj!kkkhZjyy,
zeuohqxhcx hpuchoxhoejhTxgojgjbsngphgxz?hOejc’sjhuhsufjhxahzussnxspk”

“Zec,hzeuo’pheummjgjq?”hupljqhYjrngk

Luourupxrhnghuhajzhzxsqphoxyqhenthoejhyupohmnjfjhxahgjzphasxthoejhzus,
ugqhbxngbhngoxhenphpo qc,hngosxq fjqhYjrnghoxhuhpexso,hoenfl-pjohtughxa
myjupugohummjusugfjkhOenphzuphTjosxrkhOejhfxgrjspuonxghox fejqhaxshu
isnjahpmufjhxghmxynonfphugqhxghexzhsjfjgohjrjgophzjsjhyxxljqhuohnghoej
enbejshpmejsjphnghMjojspi sbkhTjosxrhsjmjuojqhuhpucngbhoeuoheuqhsjufejq
enthoesx behuhtxpohos pozxsoechpx sfj,hsjmxsojqhupheurngbhijjgh oojsjq
xghoenphp i.jfohichoejhOpushugqhxgjhxahoejhtngnpojspkhLuourupxrheuq
ejusqhuypxhxghjvfjyyjgohu oexsnochoeuohoejhOpusheuqhpunqhpxtjoengb
w nojhqnaajsjgokhYjrnghosnjqhoxhntubngjhfnsf tpougfjphnghzenfehixoe
pucngbphtnbeoheurjhijjgh oojsjq,hugqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghxghoeuohoxmnf
qsxmmjqk

“Cjp,hejsjhej’phzsnoojghuytxpohuhixxlhxghoejhguo suyhfxgqnonxgphxahoej
yuixsjshnghsjyuonxghoxhoejhyugq,”hpunqhLuourupxr;h“N’thgxohu
pmjfnuynpo,hi ohN,huphuhguo suyhpfnjgfjhtug,hzuphmyjupjqhuohenphgxo
oulngbhtuglngqhuphpxtjoengbhx opnqjhinxyxbnfuyhyuzp;hi o,hxghoej
fxgosusc,hpjjngbhenphqjmjgqjgfjhxghenphp ssx gqngbp,hugqhnghoeuo
qjmjgqjgfjhpjjlngbhoejhyuzphxahenphqjrjyxmtjgok”

“Oeuo’phrjschngojsjpongb,”hpunqhTjosxrk

“ZeuohNhijbughmsjfnpjychzuphoxhzsnojhuhixxlhxghubsnf yo sj;hi o
po qcngbhoejhfenjahngpos tjgohxahubsnf yo sj,hoejhyuixsjs,”hpunqhYjrng,
sjqqjgngb,h“Nhfx yqhgxohejymhfxtngbhoxhw nojh gjvmjfojqhsjp yopk”

UgqhYjrnghijbughfusja yyc,huphnohzjsj,hajjyngbhenphbsx gq,hoxhjvmx gq
enphrnjzpkhEjhlgjzhTjosxrheuqhzsnoojghughusonfyjhubungpohoejhbjgjsuyyc
uffjmojqhoejxschxahmxynonfuyhjfxgxtc,hi ohoxhzeuohjvojgohejhfx yq
sjflxghxghenphpctmuoechznoehenphxzghgjzhrnjzphejhqnqhgxohlgxzhugqhfx yq
gxohb jpphasxthoejhfyjrjshugqhpjsjgjhaufjhxahoejhyjusgjqhtugk

“I ohnghzeuohqxhcx hpjjhoejhpmjfnuyhfeusufojsnponfphxahoejhS ppnug
yuixsjs?”hpunqhTjosxr;h“nghenphinxyxbnfuyhfeusufojsnponfp,hpxhoxhpmjul,
xshnghoejhfxgqnonxghnghzenfehejhnphmyufjq?”

Yjrnghpuzhoeuohoejsjhzuphughnqjuh gqjsycngbhoenphw jponxghznoehzenfehej
qnqhgxohubsjjkhI ohejhzjgohxghjvmyungngbhenphxzghnqjuhoeuohoejhS ppnug
yuixsjsheuphuhw nojhpmjfnuyhrnjzhxahoejhyugq,hqnaajsjgohasxthoeuohxa
xoejshmjxmyj;hugqhoxhp mmxsohoenphmsxmxpnonxghejhtuqjheupojhoxhuqqhoeuo
nghenphxmngnxghoenphuoono qjhxahoejhS ppnughmjupugohzuphq jhoxhoej
fxgpfnx pgjpphxahenphrxfuonxghoxhmjxmyjhrupoh gxff mnjqhjvmugpjphnghoej
Jupok

“Xgjhtuchjupnychijhyjqhngoxhjssxshnghiupngbhugchfxgfy pnxghxghoej
bjgjsuyhrxfuonxghxahuhmjxmyj,”hpunqhTjosxr,hngojss mongbhYjrngkh“Oej
fxgqnonxghxahoejhyuixsjshznyyhuyzucphqjmjgqhxghenphsjyuonxghoxhoejhyugq
ugqhoxhfumnouyk”

Ugqhznoex ohyjoongbhYjrnghangnpehjvmyungngbhenphnqju,hTjosxrhijbug
jvmx gqngbhoxhenthoejhpmjfnuyhmxngohxahenphxzghoejxsck

Nghzeuohoejhmxngohxahenphoejxschyuc,hYjrnghqnqhgxoh gqjspougq,hijfu pj
ejhqnqhgxohouljhoejhosx iyjhoxh gqjspougqkhEjhpuzhoeuohTjosxr,hynlj
xoejshmjxmyj,hnghpmnojhxahenphxzghusonfyj,hnghzenfehejheuqhuooufljqhoej
f ssjgohoejxschxahmxynonfuyhjfxgxtc,hyxxljqhuohoejhmxpnonxghxahoej
S ppnughmjupugohpntmychasxthoejhmxngohxahrnjzhxahfumnouy,hzubjp,hugq
sjgokhEjhzx yqhngqjjqheurjhijjghxiynbjqhoxhuqtnohoeuohnghoej
jupojsg—t fehoejhyusbjs—musohxahS ppnuhsjgohzuphuphcjohgny,hoeuohaxs
gngj-ojgoephxahoejhjnbeochtnyynxgphxahoejhS ppnughmjupugophzubjphoxxl
oejhaxsthpntmychxahaxxqhmsxrnqjqhaxshoejtpjyrjp,hugqhoeuohfumnouyhqxjp
gxohpxhaushjvnpohjvfjmohnghoejhaxsthxahoejhtxpohmsntnonrjhoxxypkhCjohno
zuphxgychasxthoeuohmxngohxahrnjzhoeuohejhfxgpnqjsjqhjrjschyuixsjs,
oex behnghtugchmxngophejhqnaajsjqhasxthoejhjfxgxtnpophugqheuqhenphxzg
oejxschxahoejhzubj-a gq,hzenfehejhjvmx gqjqhoxhYjrngk

Yjrnghynpojgjqhsjy fougoyc,hugqhuohanspohtuqjhxi.jfonxgpkhEjhzx yqheurj
ynljqhoxhngojss mohTjosxr,hoxhjvmyunghenphxzghoex beo,hzenfehnghenp
xmngnxghzx yqheurjhsjgqjsjqha soejshjvmxpnonxghxahTjosxr’phoejxsnjp
p mjsay x pkhI ohyuojshxg,hajjyngbhfxgrngfjqhoeuohoejchyxxljqhuohoej
tuoojshpxhqnaajsjgoyc,hoeuohoejchfx yqhgjrjsh gqjspougqhxgjhugxoejs,hej
qnqhgxohjrjghxmmxpjhenphpouojtjgop,hi ohpntmychynpojgjqkhUyoex behzeuo
Tjosxrhzuphpucngbhzuphichgxzh oojsychqjrxnqhxahngojsjpohaxshent,hejhcjo
jvmjsnjgfjqhuhfjsounghpuonpaufonxghnghynpojgngbhoxhentkhNohayuoojsjq
enphrugnochoeuohp fehuhyjusgjqhtughpex yqhjvmyunghenphnqjuphoxhenthpx
jubjsyc,hznoehp fehngojgpnochugqhfxganqjgfjhnghYjrng’ph gqjspougqngbhxa
oejhp i.jfo,hpxtjontjphznoehuhtjsjhengohsjajssngbhenthoxhuhzexyjhupmjfo
xahoejhp i.jfokhEjhm ohoenphqxzghoxhenphxzghfsjqno,h guzusjhoeuo
Tjosxr,hzexheuqhuysjuqchqnpf ppjqhenphoejxschxrjshugqhxrjshubunghznoe
uyyhenphngontuojhasnjgqp,houyljqhxahnohznoehpmjfnuyhjubjsgjpphoxhjrjsc
gjzhmjspxg,hugqhnghbjgjsuyhzuphjubjshoxhouylhoxhugcxgjhxahugchp i.jfo
oeuohngojsjpojqhent,hjrjghnahponyyhxipf sjhoxhentpjyak

“Zjhusjhyuojhoex be,”hpunqhLuourupxr,hyxxlngbhuohenphzuofehqnsjfoyc
Tjosxrheuqhangnpejqhenphqnpfx spjk

“Cjp,hoejsj’phuhtjjongbhxahoejhPxfnjochxahUtuoj sphoxquchng
fxttjtxsuonxghxahoejh. inyjjhxahPrngonofe,”hpunqhLuourupxrhnghugpzjshox
Yjrng’phngw nsckh“McxoshNrugxrnofehugqhNhzjsjhbxngbkhN’rjhmsxtnpjqhox
qjynrjshughuqqsjpphxghenphyuixsphnghdxxyxbckhFxtjhuyxgbhznoeh p,hno’p
rjschngojsjpongbk”

“Cjp,hugqhngqjjqhno’phontjhoxhpouso,”hpunqhTjosxrkh“Fxtjhznoeh p,hugq
asxthoejsj,hnahcx hfusjhox,hfxtjhoxhtchmyufjkhNhpex yqhrjscht fehynlj
oxhejushcx shzxslk”

“Xe,hgx!hNo’phgxhbxxqhcjo,hno’ph gangnpejqkhI ohNhpeuyyhijhrjschbyuqhox
bxhoxhoejhtjjongbk”

“Nhpuc,hasnjgqp,heurjhcx hejusq?hEjheupheugqjqhnghoejhpjmusuojhsjmxso,”
Luourupxrhfuyyjqhasxthoejhxoejshsxxt,hzejsjhejhzuphm oongbhxghenphasxfl
fxuok

Ugqhuhfxgrjspuonxghpmsugbh mh mxghoejh gnrjspnochw jponxg,hzenfehzuphu
rjschntmxsougohjrjgohoeuohzngojshnghTxpfxzkhOesjjhxyqhmsxajppxsphnghoej
fx gfnyheuqhgxohuffjmojqhoejhxmngnxghxahoejhcx gbjshmsxajppxspkhOej
cx gbhxgjpheuqhsjbnpojsjqhuhpjmusuojhsjpxy onxgkhOenp,hnghoejh. qbtjgo
xahpxtjhmjxmyj,hzuphtxgposx p,hnghoejh. qbtjgohxahxoejsphnohzuphoej
pntmyjpohugqhtxpoh. pohoengbhoxhqx,hugqhoejhmsxajppxsphzjsjhpmynoh m
ngoxhozxhmusonjpk

Xgjhmusoc,hoxhzenfehLuourupxrhijyxgbjq,hpuzhnghoejhxmmxpnojhmusochu
pfx gqsjyychijosucuyhugqhosjufejsc,hzenyjhoejhxmmxpnojhmusochpuzhng
oejthfenyqnpegjpphugqhyuflhxahsjpmjfohaxshoejhu oexsnonjpkhYjrng,
oex behejhqnqhgxohijyxgbhoxhoejh gnrjspnoc,heuqhpjrjsuyhontjphuysjuqc
q sngbhenphpouchnghTxpfxzhejusqhugqhouyljqhuix ohoenphtuoojs,hugqheuq
enphxzghxmngnxghxghoejhp i.jfokhEjhoxxlhmusohnghoejhfxgrjspuonxghoeuo
zuphfxgong jqhnghoejhposjjo,huphoejchuyyhoesjjhzuyljqhoxhoejhi nyqngbp
xahoejhxyqh gnrjspnock

Oejhtjjongbheuqhuysjuqchijb gkhSx gqhoejhfyxoe-fxrjsjqhouiyj,huohzenfe
LuourupxrhugqhTjosxrhpjuojqhoejtpjyrjp,hoejsjhzjsjhpxtjheuya-qxdjg
mjspxgp,hugqhxgjhxahoejpjhzuphijgqngbhfyxpjhxrjshuhtug pfsnmo,hsjuqngb
pxtjoengbhuyx qkhYjrnghpuohqxzghnghxgjhxahoejhjtmochfeunsphoeuohzjsj
pougqngbhsx gqhoejhouiyj,hugqhnghuhzenpmjshupljqhuhpo qjgohpnoongbhgjus
zeuohzuphijngbhsjuqkhOejhpo qjgo,hjcjngbhYjrnghznoehqnpmyjup sj,hpunq:

“Inxbsumeck”

Oex behYjrnghzuphgxohngojsjpojqhnghoejhinxbsumec,hejhfx yqhgxohejym
ynpojgngb,hugqhyjusgjqhpxtjhgjzhugqhngojsjpongbhaufophuix ohoejhynajhxa
oejhqnpongb npejqhtughxahpfnjgfjk

Zejghoejhsjuqjsheuqhangnpejq,hoejhfeunstughoeugljqhenthugqhsjuqhpxtj
rjspjphxahoejhmxjohTjgohpjgohenthxghoejh. inyjj,hugqhpunqhuhajzhzxsqp
ichzuchxahoeuglphoxhoejhmxjokhOejghLuourupxrhnghenphyx q,hsngbngbhrxnfj
sjuqhenphuqqsjpphxghoejhpfnjgonanfhyuixsphxahoejhtughzexpjh. inyjjhzup
ijngbhljmok

ZejghLuourupxrheuqhangnpejq,hYjrnghyxxljqhuohenphzuofe,hpuzhnohzuphmupo
xgj,hugqhoex beohoeuohoejsjhzx yqhgxohijhontjhijaxsjhoejhfxgfjsohox
sjuqhTjosxrhenphixxl,hugqhngqjjq,hejhqnqhgxohgxzhfusjhoxhqxhpxkhQ sngb
oejhsjuqngbhejheuqhoex beohxrjshoejnshfxgrjspuonxgkhEjhpuzhqnpongfoyc
gxzhoeuohoex behTjosxr’phnqjuphtnbeohmjseumpheurjhruy j,henphxzghnqjup
euqhuhruy jhoxx,hugqhoejnshnqjuphfx yqhxgychijhtuqjhfyjushugqhyjuqhox
pxtjoengbhnahjufehzxsljqhpjmusuojychnghenphfexpjghmuoe,hugqhoeuo
gxoengbhzx yqhijhbungjqhichm oongbhoejnshnqjuphoxbjoejskhUgqheurngb
tuqjh mhenphtngqhoxhsja pjhTjosxr’phngrnouonxg,hYjrnghzjgoh mhoxhenthuo
oejhjgqhxahoejhtjjongbkhTjosxrhngosxq fjqhYjrnghoxhoejhfeunstug,hznoe
zexthejhzuphouylngbhxahoejhmxynonfuyhgjzpkhTjosxrhoxyqhoejhfeunstug
zeuohejheuqhuysjuqchoxyqhYjrng,hugqhYjrnghtuqjhoejhputjhsjtuslphxghenp
gjzphoeuohejheuqhuysjuqchtuqjhoeuohtxsgngb,hi ohaxshoejhpuljhxahrusnjoc
ejhjvmsjppjqhuypxhuhgjzhxmngnxghzenfeheuqhxgych. pohpos flhentkhUaojs
oeuohoejhfxgrjspuonxgho sgjqhubunghxghoejh gnrjspnochw jponxgkhUphYjrng
euqhuysjuqchejusqhnohuyy,hejhtuqjheupojhoxhojyyhTjosxrhoeuohejhzup
pxsschejhfx yqhgxohouljhuqrugoubjhxahenphngrnouonxg,hoxxlhyjurj,hugq
qsxrjhoxhYrxr’pk


Feumojsh4

Yrxr,hoejhe piugqhxahGuouynu,hLnooc’phpnpojs,heuqhpmjgohuyyhenphynajhng
axsjnbghfumnouyp,hzejsjhejheuqhijjghjq fuojq,hugqheuqhijjghnghoej
qnmyxtuonfhpjsrnfjk

Q sngbhoejhmsjrnx phcjushejheuqhyjaohoejhqnmyxtuonfhpjsrnfj,hgxohxzngb
oxhugch“ gmyjupugogjpp”h(ejhgjrjsheuqhugch“ gmyjupugogjpp”hznoe
ugcxgj),hugqhzuphosugpajssjqhoxhoejhqjmusotjgohxahoejhfx sohxahoej
muyufjhnghTxpfxz,hnghxsqjshoxhbnrjhenphozxhixcphoejhijpohjq fuonxg
mxppniyjk

Nghpmnojhxahoejhposnlngbhfxgosupohnghoejnsheuinophugqhrnjzphugqhoej
aufohoeuohYrxrhzuphxyqjshoeughYjrng,hoejcheuqhpjjghuhbsjuohqjuyhxahxgj
ugxoejshoeuohzngojs,hugqheuqhouljghuhbsjuohynlngbhoxhjufehxoejsk

Yrxrhzuphuohextj,hugqhYjrnghzjgohnghoxhenth guggx gfjqk

Yrxr,hnghuhex pjhfxuohznoehuhijyohugqhnghfeutxnphyjuoejshpexjp,hzup
pnoongbhnghughustfeuns,hugqhznoehuhmngfj-gjdhznoehiy jhbyuppjphejhzup
sjuqngbhuhixxlhoeuohpoxxqhxghuhsjuqngbhqjpl,hzenyjhnghenphiju ona y
eugqhejhejyqhuheuya-i sgjqhfnbusjoojhqungonychuzuchasxthentk

Enpheugqpxtj,hqjynfuoj,hugqhponyyhcx oea y-yxxlngbhaufj,hoxhzenfehenp
f syc,hbynpojgngbhpnyrjscheunshburjhuhponyyhtxsjhusnpoxfsuonfhuns,
ynbeojqh mhznoehuhptnyjhzejghejhpuzhYjrngk

“Fumnouy!hNhzuphtjugngbhoxhpjgqhoxhcx khExz’phLnooc?hPnohejsj,hno’p
txsjhfxtaxsouiyjk”hEjhbxoh mhugqhm pejqh mhuhsxflngbhfeunskh“Eurjhcx 
sjuqhoejhyupohfnsf yushnghoejh_.x sguyhqjhPokhMéojspix sb?_hNhoengl
no’phjvfjyyjgo,”hejhpunq,hznoehuhpynbeohAsjgfehuffjgok

YjrnghoxyqhenthzeuohejheuqhejusqhasxthLuourupxrhzuphijngbhpunqhng
Mjojspi sb,hugqhuaojshouylngbhuhynooyjhuix ohmxynonfp,hejhoxyqhenthxa
enphngojsrnjzhznoehTjosxr,hugqhoejhyjusgjqhpxfnjoc’phtjjongbkhOxhYrxr
nohzuphrjschngojsjpongbk

“Oeuo’phzeuohNhjgrchcx ,hoeuohcx husjhuiyjhoxhtnvhnghoejpjhngojsjpongb
pfnjgonanfhfnsfyjp,”hejhpunqkhUgqhuphejhouyljq,hejhmuppjqhuph p uyhngox
Asjgfe,hzenfehzuphjupnjshoxhentkh“No’phos jhNheurjg’ohoejhontjhaxshnok
Tchxaanfnuyhzxslhugqhoejhfenyqsjghyjurjhtjhgxhontj;hugqhoejghN’thgxo
upeutjqhoxhxzghoeuohtchjq fuonxgheuphijjghoxxhqjajfonrjk”

“OeuohNhqxg’ohijynjrj,”hpunqhYjrnghznoehuhptnyj,hajjyngb,huphejhuyzucp
qnq,hox fejqhuohYrxr’phyxzhxmngnxghxahentpjya,hzenfehzuphgxohnghoej
yjupohm ohxghasxthuhqjpnsjhoxhpjjthxshoxhijhtxqjpo,hi ohzuphuipxy ojyc
pngfjsjk

“Xe,hcjp,hngqjjq!hNhajjyhgxzhexzhiuqychjq fuojqhNhutkhOxhjq fuojhtc
fenyqsjghNhmxpnonrjycheurjhoxhyxxlh mhuhbsjuohqjuy,hugqhnghaufohpntmyc
oxhpo qchtcpjyakhAxshno’phgxohjgx behoxheurjhojufejsp,hoejsjht pohij
pxtjxgjhoxhyxxlhuaojshoejt,h. pohuphxghcx shyugqhcx hzugohyuixsjsphugq
ughxrjspjjskhPjjhzeuohN’thsjuqngb”—ejhmxngojqhoxhI pyujr’ph_Bsuttus_hxg
oejhqjpl—“no’phjvmjfojqhxahTnpeu,hugqhno’phpxhqnaanf yokkkkhFxtj,
jvmyunghoxhtjkkkkhEjsjhejhpucpkkkk”

Yjrnghosnjqhoxhjvmyunghoxhenthoeuohnohfx yqg’ohijh gqjspoxxq,hi ohoeuo
noheuqhoxhijhou beo;hi ohYrxrhzx yqhgxohubsjjhznoehentk

“Xe,hcx ’sjhyu bengbhuohno!”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc,hcx hfug’ohntubngjhexz,hzejghNhyxxlhuohcx ,hN’thuyzucp
yjusgngbhoejhouplhoeuohynjphijaxsjhtj,hoeuohnphoejhjq fuonxghxahxgj’p
fenyqsjgk”

“Zjyy,hoejsj’phgxoengbhaxshcx hoxhyjusg,”hpunqhYrxrk

“UyyhNhlgxz,”hpunqhYjrng,h“nphoeuohNheurjhgjrjshpjjghijoojshisx beo- m
fenyqsjghoeughcx sp,hugqhNhzx yqg’ohznpehaxshfenyqsjghijoojshoeug
cx spk”

Yrxrhrnpniychosnjqhoxhsjposunghoejhjvmsjppnxghxahenphqjynbeo,hi ohej
zuphmxpnonrjychsuqnugohznoehptnyjpk

“Nahxgychoejc’sjhijoojshoeughN!hOeuo’phuyyhNhqjpnsjkhCx hqxg’ohlgxzhcjo
uyyhoejhzxsl,”hejhpunq,h“znoehixcphzex’rjhijjghyjaohynljhtngjhoxhs g
znyqhuisxuqk”

“Cx ’yyhfuofehuyyhoeuoh mkhOejc’sjhp fehfyjrjshfenyqsjgkhOejhbsjuo
oengbhnphoejhjq fuonxghxahfeusufojskhOeuo’phzeuohNhyjusghzejghNhyxxlhuo
cx shfenyqsjgk”

“Cx houylhxahoejhjq fuonxghxahfeusufojskhCx hfug’ohntubngjhexz
qnaanf yohoeuohnp!hCx heurjheusqychp ffjjqjqhnghfxtiuongbhxgjhojgqjgfc
zejghxoejsphfsxmh m,hugqhoejhpos bbyjhijbngphubungkhNahxgjheuqhgxohu
p mmxsohnghsjynbnxg—cx hsjtjtijshzjhouyljqhuix ohoeuo—gxhauoejshfx yq
isngbhfenyqsjgh mhsjycngbhxghenphxzghposjgboehuyxgjhznoex ohoeuohejymk”

Oenphp i.jfo,hzenfehuyzucphngojsjpojqhYjrng,hzuphf ohpexsohichoej
jgosugfjhxahoejhiju ochGuouynuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hqsjppjqhoxhbxhx ok

“Nhqnqg’ohlgxzhcx hzjsjhejsj,”hpejhpunq,h gtnpouluiychajjyngbhgx
sjbsjo,hi ohuhmxpnonrjhmyjup sj,hnghngojss mongbhoenphfxgrjspuonxghxghu
oxmnfhpejheuqhejusqhpxht fehxahoeuohpejhzuphichgxzhzjuschxahnokh“Zjyy,
exzhnphLnooc?hNhuthqngngbhznoehcx hoxquckhNhojyyhcx hzeuo,hUspjgc,”hpej
o sgjqhoxhejshe piugq,h“cx houljhoejhfussnubjk”

Ugqhoejhe piugqhugqhznajhijbughoxhqnpf pphoejnshussugbjtjgophaxshoej
quckhUphoejhe piugqheuqhoxhqsnrjhoxhtjjohpxtjxgjhxghxaanfnuyhi pngjpp,
zenyjhoejhznajheuqhoxhbxhoxhoejhfxgfjsohugqhpxtjhm iynfhtjjongbhxahu
fxttnoojjhxghoejhJupojsghW jponxg,hoejsjhzuphuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhfxgpnqjs
ugqhpjooyjkhYjrngheuqhoxhouljhmusohnghoejnshmyugphuphxgjhxahoejtpjyrjpk
NohzuphpjooyjqhoeuohYjrnghpex yqhbxhznoehGuouynuhoxhoejhfxgfjsohugqhoej
tjjongb,hugqhoeuohasxthoejsjhoejchpex yqhpjgqhoejhfussnubjhoxhoej
xaanfjhaxshUspjgc,hugqhejhpex yqhfuyyhaxshejshugqhouljhejshoxhLnooc’p;
xshoeuo,hnahejheuqhgxohangnpejqhenphzxsl,hejhpex yqhpjgqhoejhfussnubj
iuflhugqhYjrnghzx yqhbxhznoehejsk

“Ej’phpmxnyngbhtj,”hYrxrhpunqhoxhenphznaj;h“ejhupp sjphtjhoeuohx s
fenyqsjghusjhpmyjgqnq,hzejghNhlgxzhexzht fehoeuo’phiuqhoejsjhnphng
oejtk”

“Uspjgchbxjphoxhjvosjtjp,hNhuyzucphpuc,”hpunqhenphznajkh“Nahcx hyxxl
axshmjsajfonxg,hcx hznyyhgjrjshijhpuonpanjqkhUgqhno’phos j,huphmumu
pucp,—oeuohzejghzjhzjsjhisx beoh mhoejsjhzuphxgjhjvosjtj—zjhzjsjhljmo
nghoejhiupjtjgo,hzenyjhx shmusjgophynrjqhnghoejhijpohsxxtp;hgxzhno’p
. pohoejhxoejshzuc—oejhmusjgophusjhnghoejhzupehex pj,hzenyjhoej
fenyqsjghusjhnghoejhijpohsxxtpkhMusjgophgxzhusjhgxohjvmjfojqhoxhynrjhuo
uyy,hi ohoxhjvnpohuyoxbjoejshaxshoejnshfenyqsjgk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohnahoejchynljhnohijoojs?”hYrxrhpunq,hznoehenphiju ona y
ptnyj,hox fengbhejsheugqkh“Ugcxgjhzexhqnqg’ohlgxzhcx hzx yqhoenglhcx 
zjsjhuhpojmtxoejs,hgxohuhos jhtxoejsk”

“Gx,hjvosjtjphusjhgxohbxxqhnghugcoengb,”hGuouynuhpunqhpjsjgjyc,hm oongb
enphmumjs-lgnajhposunbeohnghnophmsxmjshmyufjhxghoejhouiyjk

“Zjyy,hfxtjhejsj,hcx hmjsajfohfenyqsjg,”hYrxrhpunqhoxhoejhozxheugqpxtj
ixcphzexhfutjhng,hugqhuaojshixzngbhoxhYjrng,hzjgoh mhoxhoejnshauoejs,
xirnx pychznpengbhoxhuplhenthuix ohpxtjoengbk

Yjrnghzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhouylhoxhoejt,hoxhejushzeuohoejchzx yqhpuchox
oejnshauoejs,hi ohGuouynuhijbughouylngbhoxhent,hugqhoejghYrxr’p
fxyyjub jhnghoejhpjsrnfj,hTuexong,hzuyljqhng,hzjusngbhenphfx so
 gnaxst,hoxhbxhznoehenthoxhtjjohpxtjxgj,hugqhuhfxgrjspuonxghzuphljmoh m
znoex ohuhisjulh mxghEjsdjbxrngu,hMsngfjpphLxsdngplucu,hoejhoxzg
fx gfny,hugqhoejhp qqjghqjuoehxahTuqutjhUmsulpnguk

Yjrnghjrjghaxsbxohoejhfxttnppnxghngos pojqhoxhentkhEjhsjfxyyjfojqhnohup
ejhzuphbxngbhngoxhoejheuyyk

“Xe,hLnoochoxyqhtjhoxhouylhoxhcx huix ohXiyxgplc,”hejhpunq,huphYrxrhzup
pougqngbhxghoejhpounsp,hpjjngbhenphznajhugqhYjrnghxaak

“Cjp,hcjp,htutughzugoph p,h_yjphiju v-asèsjp,_hoxhuoouflhent,”hejhpunq,
iy pengbkh“I ohzechpex yqhN?”

“Zjyy,hoejg,hNhznyyhuoouflhent,”hpunqhTuqutjhYrxru,hznoehuhptnyj,
pougqngbhnghejshzenojhpejjmplnghfumj,hzunongbhonyyhoejcheuqhangnpejq
pmjulngbkh“Fxtj,hyjoh phbxk”


Feumojsh5

Uohoejhfxgfjsohnghoejhuaojsgxxghozxhrjschngojsjpongbhoengbphzjsj
mjsaxstjqkhXgjhzuphuhaugoupnu,h_LngbhYjus;_hoejhxoejshzuphuhw usojooj
qjqnfuojqhoxhoejhtjtxschxahIufekhIxoehzjsjhgjzhugqhnghoejhgjzhpocyj,
ugqhYjrnghzuphjubjshoxhaxsthughxmngnxghxahoejtkhUaojshjpfxsongbhenp
pnpojs-ng-yuzhoxhejshpouyy,hejhpoxxqhubungpohuhfxy tghugqhosnjqhox
ynpojghuphuoojgonrjychugqhfxgpfnjgonx pychuphmxppniyjkhEjhosnjqhgxohox
yjohenphuoojgonxghijhqnposufojq,hugqhgxohoxhpmxnyhenphntmsjppnxghic
yxxlngbhuohoejhfxgq foxshnghuhzenojhonj,hzurngbhenphustp,hzenfehuyzucp
qnpo sijqhenphjg.xctjgohxaht pnfhpxht fe,hxshoejhyuqnjphnghixggjop,
znoehposngbphfusja yychonjqhxrjshoejnshjusp,hugqhuyyhoejpjhmjxmyj
jnoejshoenglngbhxahgxoengbhuohuyyhxshoenglngbhxahuyyhpxsophxahoengbp
jvfjmohoejht pnfkhEjhosnjqhoxhurxnqhtjjongbht pnfuyhfxggxnppj sphxs
ouyluonrjhufw ungougfjp,hugqhpoxxqhyxxlngbhuohoejhayxxshposunbeohijaxsj
ent,hynpojgngbk

I ohoejhtxsjhejhynpojgjqhoxhoejhaugoupnuhxah_LngbhYjus_hoejha soejshej
ajyohasxthaxstngbhugchqjangnojhxmngnxghxahnokhOejsjhzup,huphnohzjsj,hu
fxgong uyhijbnggngb,huhmsjmusuonxghxahoejht pnfuyhjvmsjppnxghxahpxtj
ajjyngb,hi ohnohajyyhoxhmnjfjphubunghqnsjfoyc,hisjulngbhngoxhgjz
t pnfuyhtxonrjp,hxshpntmychgxoengbhi ohoejhzentphxahoejhfxtmxpjs,
jvfjjqngbychfxtmyjvhi ohqnpfxggjfojqhpx gqpkhUgqhoejpjhasubtjgousc
t pnfuyhjvmsjppnxgp,hoex behpxtjontjphiju ona y,hzjsjhqnpubsjjuiyj,
ijfu pjhoejchzjsjh oojsych gjvmjfojqhugqhgxohyjqh mhoxhichugcoengbk
Bunjochugqhbsnjahugqhqjpmunshugqhojgqjsgjpphugqhosn tmehaxyyxzjqhxgj
ugxoejshznoex ohugchfxggjfonxg,hynljhoejhjtxonxgphxahuhtuqtugkhUgq
oexpjhjtxonxgp,hynljhuhtuqtug’p,hpmsugbh mhw nojh gjvmjfojqyck

Q sngbhoejhzexyjhxahoejhmjsaxstugfjhYjrnghajyohynljhuhqjuahtughzuofengb
mjxmyjhqugfngb,hugqhzuphnghuhpouojhxahfxtmyjojhijznyqjstjgohzejghoej
augoupnuhzuphxrjs,hugqhajyohuhbsjuohzjusngjpphasxthoejhas noyjpphposung
xghenphuoojgonxgkhYx qhummyu pjhsjpx gqjqhxghuyyhpnqjpkhJrjscxgjhbxo
 m,htxrjqhuix o,hugqhijbughouylngbkhUgvnx phoxhoesxzhpxtjhynbeohxghenp
xzghmjsmyjvnochasxthoejhntmsjppnxgphxahxoejsp,hYjrnghijbughoxhzuyl
uix o,hyxxlngbhaxshfxggxnppj sp,hugqhzuphbyuqhoxhpjjhuhzjyy-lgxzg
t pnfuyhutuoj shnghfxgrjspuonxghznoehMjpopxr,hzexthejhlgjzk

“Tusrjyx p!”hMjpopxrhzuphpucngbhnghenphtjyyxzhiuppkh“Exzhusjhcx ,
LxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe?hMusonf yusychpf ymo sjpw jhugqhmyuponf,hpxhox
puc,hugqhsnfeychfxyxsjqhnphoeuohmuppubjhzejsjhcx hajjyhFxsqjynu’p
ummsxufe,hzejsjhzxtug,h_quphjznbhZjniynfej,_hjgojsphngoxhfxgaynfohznoe
auojkhNpg’ohno?”

“Cx htjughkkkhzeuoheuphFxsqjynuhoxhqxhznoehno?”hYjrnghupljqhontnqyc,
axsbjoongbhoeuohoejhaugoupnuhzuphp mmxpjqhoxhsjmsjpjgohLngbhYjusk

“Fxsqjynuhfxtjphnghkkkhpjjhejsj!”hpunqhMjpopxr,hoummngbhenphangbjshxg
oejhpuongchp saufjhxahoejhmsxbsuthejhejyqhnghenpheugqhugqhmuppngbhnohox
Yjrngk

XgychoejghYjrnghsjfxyyjfojqhoejhonoyjhxahoejhaugoupnu,hugqhtuqjheupoj
oxhsjuqhnghoejhS ppnughosugpyuonxghoejhyngjphasxthPeuljpmjusjhoeuohzjsj
msngojqhxghoejhiuflhxahoejhmsxbsutk

“Cx hfug’ohaxyyxzhnohznoex ohoeuo,”hpunqhMjpopxr,huqqsjppngbhYjrng,hup
oejhmjspxghejheuqhijjghpmjulngbhoxheuqhbxgjhuzuc,hugqhejheuqhgxhxgjhox
ouylhoxk

Nghoejh_jgos’ufoj_hYjrnghugqhMjpopxrhajyyhngoxhughusb tjgoh mxghoej
tjsnophugqhqjajfophxaht pnfhxahoejhZubgjshpfexxykhYjrnghtungoungjqhoeuo
oejhtnpouljhxahZubgjshugqhuyyhenphaxyyxzjsphyuchnghoejnshoscngbhoxhoulj
t pnfhngoxhoejhpmejsjhxahugxoejshuso,h. pohuphmxjoschbxjphzsxgbhzejghno
osnjphoxhmungohuhaufjhuphoejhusohxahmungongbhx beohoxhqx,hugqhuphug
ngpougfjhxahoenphtnpouljhejhfnojqhoejhpf ymoxshzexhfusrjqhnghtusiyj
fjsounghmxjonfhmeugouptphaynoongbhsx gqhoejhanb sjhxahoejhmxjohxghoej
mjqjpouykh“Oejpjhmeugoxtphzjsjhpxhaushasxthijngbhmeugoxtphoeuohoejc
zjsjhmxpnonrjychfyngbngbhxghoejhyuqqjs,”hpunqhYjrngkhOejhfxtmusnpxg
myjupjqhent,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohsjtjtijshzejoejshejheuqhgxoh pjqhoejhputj
mesupjhijaxsj,hugqhoxhMjpopxr,hoxx,hugqhuphejhpunqhnohejhajyohfxga pjqk

Mjpopxrhtungoungjqhoeuohusohnphxgj,hugqhoeuohnohfughuoounghnophenbejpo
tugnajpouonxgphxgychichfxg. gfonxghznoehuyyhlngqphxahusok

OejhpjfxgqhmnjfjhoeuohzuphmjsaxstjqhYjrnghfx yqhgxohejuskhMjpopxr,hzex
zuphpougqngbhijpnqjhent,hzuphouylngbhoxhenthuytxpohuyyhoejhontj,
fxgqjtgngbhoejht pnfhaxshnophjvfjppnrjhuaajfojqhupp tmonxghxa
pntmynfnoc,hugqhfxtmusngbhnohznoehoejhpntmynfnochxahoejhMsj-Sumeujynojp
nghmungongbkhUphejhzjgohx ohYjrnghtjohtugchtxsjhufw ungougfjp,hznoe
zexthejhouyljqhxahmxynonfp,hxaht pnf,hugqhxahfxttxghufw ungougfjpk
UtxgbhxoejsphejhtjohFx gohIxy,hzexthejheuqh oojsychaxsbxoojghoxhfuyy
 mxgk

“Zjyy,hbxhuohxgfjhoejg,”hTuqutjhYrxruhpunq,hzejghejhoxyqhejs;h“mjseump
oejc’yyhgxohijhuohextj,hugqhoejghcx hfughfxtjhoxhoejhtjjongbhoxhajofe
tjkhCx ’yyhangqhtjhponyyhoejsjk”


Feumojsh6

“Mjseumphoejc’sjhgxohuohextj?”hpunqhYjrng,huphejhzjgohngoxhoejheuyyhxa
Fx gojpphIxyu’phex pjk

“Uohextj;hmyjupjhzuylhng,”hpunqhoejhmxsojs,hsjpxy ojychsjtxrngbhenp
xrjsfxuok

“Exzhuggxcngb!”hoex beohYjrnghznoehuhpnbe,houlngbhxaahxgjhbyxrjhugq
posxlngbhenpheuokh“ZeuohqnqhNhfxtjhaxs?hZeuoheurjhNhoxhpuchoxhoejt?”

Uphejhmuppjqhoesx behoejhanspohqsuzngb-sxxthYjrnghtjohnghoejhqxxszuc
Fx gojpphIxyu,hbnrngbhpxtjhxsqjshoxhuhpjsrugohznoehuhfusj-zxsghugq
pjrjsjhaufjkhXghpjjngbhYjrnghpejhptnyjq,hugqhupljqhenthoxhfxtjhngoxhoej
ynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejsjhejhejusqhrxnfjpkhNghoenphsxxthoejsjhzjsj
pnoongbhnghustfeunsphoejhozxhqu beojsphxahoejhfx gojpp,hugqhuhTxpfxz
fxyxgjy,hzexthYjrnghlgjzkhYjrnghzjgoh m,hbsjjojqhoejt,hugqhpuohqxzg
ijpnqjhoejhpxauhznoehenpheuohxghenphlgjjpk

“Exzhnphcx shznaj?hEurjhcx hijjghuohoejhfxgfjso?hZjhfx yqg’ohbxkhTuttu
euqhoxhijhuohoejha gjsuyhpjsrnfjk”

“Cjp,hNhejusqkkkkhZeuohuhp qqjghqjuoe!”hpunqhYjrngk

Oejhfx gojpphfutjhng,hpuohqxzghxghoejhpxau,hugqhpejhoxxhupljqhuaojshenp
znajhugqhngw nsjqhuix ohoejhfxgfjsok

Yjrnghugpzjsjq,hugqhsjmjuojqhughngw nschuix ohTuqutjhUmsulpngu’php qqjg
qjuoek

“I ohpejhzuphuyzucphnghzjulhejuyoek”

“Zjsjhcx huohoejhxmjsuhcjpojsquc?”

“Cjp,hNhzupk”

“Y ffuhzuphrjschbxxqk”

“Cjp,hrjschbxxq,”hejhpunq,hugqhuphnohzuph oojsychxahgxhfxgpjw jgfjhox
enthzeuohoejchoex beohxahent,hejhijbughsjmjuongbhzeuohoejcheuqhejusqhu
e gqsjqhontjphuix ohoejhfeusufojsnponfphxahoejhpngbjs’phouyjgok
Fx gojpphIxyuhmsjojgqjqhoxhijhynpojgngbkhOejg,hzejghejheuqhpunqhjgx be
ugqhmu pjq,hoejhfxyxgjy,hzexheuqhijjghpnyjgohonyyhoejg,hijbughoxhouylk
Oejhfxyxgjyhoxxhouyljqhxahoejhxmjsu,hugqhuix ohf yo sjkhUohyupo,huaojs
pmjulngbhxahoejhmsxmxpjqh_axyyjh.x sgéj_huohO sng’p,hoejhfxyxgjy
yu bejq,hbxoh mhgxnpnyc,hugqhzjgohuzuckhYjrnghoxxhsxpj,hi ohejhpuzhic
oejhaufjhxahoejhfx gojpphoeuohnohzuphgxohcjohontjhaxshenthoxhbxkhEj
t pohpouchozxhtng ojphyxgbjskhEjhpuohqxzgk

I ohuphejhzuphoenglngbhuyyhoejhzenyjhexzhpo mnqhnohzup,hejhfx yqhgxo
angqhuhp i.jfohaxshfxgrjspuonxg,hugqhpuohpnyjgok

“Cx husjhgxohbxngbhoxhoejhm iynfhtjjongb?hOejchpuchnohznyyhijhrjsc
ngojsjpongb,”hijbughoejhfx gojppk

“Gx,hNhmsxtnpjqhtch_ijyyj-pœ s_hoxhajofehejshasxthno,”hpunqhYjrngk

UhpnyjgfjhaxyyxzjqkhOejhtxoejshxgfjhtxsjhjvfeugbjqhbyugfjphznoehu
qu beojsk

“Zjyy,hgxzhNhoenglhoejhontjheuphfxtj,”hoex beohYjrng,hugqhejhbxoh mk
Oejhyuqnjphpexxlheugqphznoehent,hugqhijbbjqhenthoxhpuch_tnyyjhfexpjp_
oxhenphznajhaxshoejtk

Oejhmxsojshupljqhent,huphejhburjhenthenphfxuo,h“Zejsjhnphcx shexgxs
poucngb?”hugqhnttjqnuojychzsxojhqxzghenphuqqsjpphnghuhinbheugqpxtjyc
ix gqhixxlk

“Xahfx spjhNhqxg’ohfusj,hi ohponyyhNhajjyhupeutjqhugqhuza yychpo mnq,”
oex beohYjrng,hfxgpxyngbhentpjyahznoehoejhsjayjfonxghoeuohjrjscxgjhqxjp
nokhEjhqsxrjhoxhoejhm iynfhtjjongb,hzejsjhejhzuphoxhangqhenp
pnpojs-ng-yuz,hpxhuphoxhqsnrjhextjhznoehejsk

Uohoejhm iynfhtjjongbhxahoejhfxttnoojjhoejsjhzjsjhuhbsjuohtugchmjxmyj,
ugqhuytxpohuyyhoejhenbejpohpxfnjockhYjrnghzuphnghontjhaxshoejhsjmxso
zenfe,huphjrjscxgjhpunq,hzuphrjschngojsjpongbkhZejghoejhsjuqngbhxahoej
sjmxsohzuphxrjs,hmjxmyjhtxrjqhuix o,hugqhYjrnghtjohPrnudeplc,hzex
ngrnojqhenthrjschmsjppngbychoxhfxtjhoeuohjrjgngbhoxhuhtjjongbhxahoej
PxfnjochxahUbsnf yo sj,hzejsjhuhfjyjisuojqhyjfo sjhzuphoxhijhqjynrjsjq,
ugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hzexheuqhxgych. pohfxtjhasxthoejhsufjp,hugq
tugchxoejshufw ungougfjp;hugqhYjrnghejusqhugqh oojsjqhrusnx p
fsnonfnptphxghoejhtjjongb,hxghoejhgjzhaugoupnu,hugqhxghuhm iynfhosnuyk
I o,hmsxiuiychasxthoejhtjgouyhauonb jhejhzuphijbnggngbhoxhajjy,hejhtuqj
uhiy gqjshnghpmjulngbhxahoejhosnuy,hugqhoenphiy gqjshejhsjfuyyjq
pjrjsuyhontjphznoehrjvuonxgkhPmjulngbhxahoejhpjgojgfjh mxghuhaxsjnbgjs
zexheuqhijjghfxgqjtgjqhnghS ppnu,hugqhxahexzh gaunshnohzx yqhijhox
m gnpehenthichjvnyjhuisxuq,hYjrnghsjmjuojqhzeuohejheuqhejusqhoejhquc
ijaxsjhnghfxgrjspuonxghasxthughufw ungougfjk

“Nhoenglhpjgqngbhenthuisxuqhnpht fehoejhputjhuphm gnpengbhuhfusmhic
m oongbhnohngoxhoejhzuojs,”hpunqhYjrngkhOejghejhsjfxyyjfojqhoeuohoenp
nqju,hzenfehejheuqhejusqhasxthughufw ungougfjhugqh oojsjqhuphenphxzg,
futjhasxthuhauiyjhxahLsnyxr’p,hugqhoeuohoejhufw ungougfjheuqhmnfljqhno
 mhasxthuhgjzpmumjshusonfyjk

Uaojshqsnrngbhextjhznoehenphpnpojs-ng-yuz,hugqhangqngbhLnoochnghbxxq
pmnsnophugqhw nojhzjyy,hYjrnghqsxrjhoxhoejhfy ik


Feumojsh7

Yjrnghsjufejqhoejhfy ih. pohuohoejhsnbeohontjkhTjtijsphugqhrnpnoxsp
zjsjhqsnrngbh mhuphejhussnrjqkhYjrngheuqhgxohijjghuohoejhfy ihaxshu
rjschyxgbhzenyj—gxohpngfjhejhynrjqhnghTxpfxz,hzejghejhzuphyjurngbhoej
 gnrjspnochugqhbxngbhngoxhpxfnjockhEjhsjtjtijsjqhoejhfy i,hoejhjvojsguy
qjounyphxahnophussugbjtjgo,hi ohejheuqhfxtmyjojychaxsbxoojghoej
ntmsjppnxghnoheuqhtuqjhxghenthnghxyqhqucpkhI ohuphpxxghup,hqsnrngbhngox
oejhznqjhpjtnfnsf yushfx sohugqhbjoongbhx ohxahoejhpyjqbj,hejhtx gojq
oejhpojmp,hugqhoejheuyy-mxsojs,huqxsgjqhznoehuhfsxppzuchpfusa,
gxnpjyjppychxmjgjqhoejhqxxshoxhenthznoehuhixz;huphpxxghuphejhpuzhnghoej
mxsojs’phsxxthoejhfyxulphugqhbuyxpejphxahtjtijsphzexhoex beohnohyjpp
osx iyjhoxhouljhoejthxaahqxzgpounsp;huphpxxghuphejhejusqhoejhtcpojsnx p
sngbngbhijyyhoeuohmsjfjqjqhenthuphejhupfjgqjqhoejhjupc,hfusmjojq
pounsfupj,hugqhpuzhoejhpouo jhxghoejhyugqngb,hugqhoejhoensqhmxsojshuo
oejhoxmhqxxsp,huhautnynushanb sjhbsxzghxyqjs,hnghoejhfy ihynrjsc,
xmjgngbhoejhqxxshznoex oheupojhxshqjyuc,hugqhpfuggngbhoejhrnpnoxsphup
oejchmuppjqhng—Yjrnghajyohoejhxyqhntmsjppnxghxahoejhfy ihfxtjhiuflhnghu
s pe,hughntmsjppnxghxahsjmxpj,hfxtaxso,hugqhmsxmsnjock

“Cx sheuo,hmyjupj,”hoejhmxsojshpunqhoxhYjrng,hzexhaxsbxohoejhfy ihs yj
oxhyjurjhenpheuohnghoejhmxsojs’phsxxtkh“Yxgbhontjhpngfjhcx ’rjhijjgk
Oejhmsngfjhm ohcx shgutjhqxzghcjpojsquckhMsngfjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehnp
gxohejsjhcjok”

OejhmxsojshqnqhgxohxgychlgxzhYjrng,hi ohuypxhuyyhenphonjphugq
sjyuonxgpenmp,hugqhpxhnttjqnuojychtjgonxgjqhenphngontuojhasnjgqpk

Muppngbhoesx behoejhx ojsheuyy,hqnrnqjqh mhichpfsjjgp,hugqhoejhsxxt
musononxgjqhxghoejhsnbeo,hzejsjhuhtughpnophuohoejhas nohi aajo,hYjrng
xrjsoxxlhughxyqhtughzuylngbhpyxzychng,hugqhjgojsjqhoejhqngngb-sxxtha yy
xahgxnpjhugqhmjxmyjk

Ejhzuyljqhuyxgbhoejhouiyjp,huytxpohuyyha yy,hugqhyxxljqhuohoej
rnpnoxspkhEjhpuzhmjxmyjhxahuyyhpxsop,hxyqhugqhcx gb;hpxtjhejhlgjzhu
ynooyj,hpxtjhngontuojhasnjgqpkhOejsjhzuphgxohuhpngbyjhfsxpphxs
zxssnjq-yxxlngbhaufjkhUyyhpjjtjqhoxheurjhyjaohoejnshfusjphugqhugvnjonjp
nghoejhmxsojs’phsxxthznoehoejnsheuop,hugqhzjsjhuyyhqjynijsuojychbjoongb
sjuqchoxhjg.xchoejhtuojsnuyhiyjppngbphxahynajkhPrnudeplchzuphejsjhugq
Peofejsiuoplc,hGjrcjqxrplchugqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hugqhRsxgplchugqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofek

“Ue!hzechusjhcx hyuoj?”hoejhmsngfjhpunqhptnyngb,hugqhbnrngbhenthenp
eugqhxrjshenphxzghpex yqjskh“Exz’phLnooc?”hejhuqqjq,hptxxoengbhx ohoej
gumlnghejheuqho fljqhnghuohenphzunpofxuohi ooxgpk

“Uyyhsnbeo;hoejchusjhqngngbhuohextj,huyyhoejhoesjjhxahoejtk”

“Ue,h‘Uyngj-Guqngj,’hoxhijhp sj!hOejsj’phgxhsxxthznoeh pkhBxhoxhoeuo
ouiyj,hugqhtuljheupojhugqhouljhuhpjuo,”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,hugqho sgngb
uzuchejhfusja yychoxxlhuhmyuojhxahjjyhpx mk

“Yjrng,hoenphzuc!”huhbxxq-guo sjqhrxnfjhpex ojqhuhynooyjhausoejshxgkhNo
zuphO sxropngkhEjhzuphpnoongbhznoehuhcx gbhxaanfjs,hugqhijpnqjhoejt
zjsjhozxhfeunspho sgjqh mpnqjhqxzgkhYjrnghbyuqychzjgoh mhoxhoejtkhEj
euqhuyzucphynljqhoejhbxxq-ejusojqhsulj,hO sxropng—ejhzuphuppxfnuojqhng
enphtngqhznoehtjtxsnjphxahenphfx sopenm—ugqhuohoeuohtxtjgo,huaojshoej
posunghxahngojyyjfo uyhfxgrjspuonxg,hoejhpnbeohxahO sxropng’p
bxxq-guo sjqhaufjhzuphmusonf yusychzjyfxtjk

“Axshcx hugqhXiyxgplckhEj’yyhijhejsjhqnsjfoyck”

Oejhcx gbhtug,hexyqngbhentpjyahrjschjsjfo,hznoehjcjphaxsjrjshoznglyngb
znoehjg.xctjgo,hzuphughxaanfjshasxthMjojspi sb,hBubngkhO sxropng
ngosxq fjqhoejtk

“Xiyxgplc’phuyzucphyuojk”

“Ue,hejsjhejhnp!”

“Eurjhcx hxgych. pohfxtj?”hpunqhXiyxgplc,hfxtngbhw nflychoxzusqphoejtk
“BxxqhquckhEuqhpxtjhrxqlu?hZjyy,hfxtjhuyxgbhoejgk”

Yjrnghbxoh mhugqhzjgohznoehenthoxhoejhinbhouiyjhpmsjuqhznoehpmnsnophugq
ummjondjsphxahoejhtxpohrusnx phlngqpkhXgjhzx yqheurjhoex beohoeuohx o
xahozxhqxdjghqjynfufnjphxgjhtnbeohangqhpxtjoengbhoxhxgj’phoupoj,hi o
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehupljqhaxshpxtjoengbhpmjfnuy,hugqhxgjhxahoej
ynrjsnjqhzunojsphpougqngbhichnttjqnuojychisx beohzeuohzuphsjw nsjqk
Oejchqsuglhuhzngj-byuppa yhugqhsjo sgjqhoxhoejnshouiyjk

Uohxgfj,hzenyjhoejchzjsjhponyyhuohoejhpx m,hBubnghzuphpjsrjqhznoe
feutmubgj,hugqhoxyqhoejhzunojshoxhanyyhax shbyuppjpkhYjrnghqnqhgxo
sja pjhoejhzngj,hugqhupljqhaxshuhpjfxgqhixooyjkhEjhzuphrjsche gbsc,hugq
uojhugqhqsuglhznoehbsjuohjg.xctjgo,hugqhznoehponyyhbsjuojshjg.xctjgo
oxxlhmusohnghoejhynrjychugqhpntmyjhfxgrjspuonxghxahenphfxtmugnxgpk
Bubng,hqsxmmngbhenphrxnfj,hoxyqhoejhyupohbxxqhpoxschasxthMjojspi sb,
ugqhoejhpoxsc,hoex behntmsxmjshugqhpo mnq,hzuphpxhy qnfsx phoeuohYjrng
isxljhngoxhsxusphxahyu beojshpxhyx qhoeuohoexpjhgjushyxxljqhsx gqk

“Oeuo’phnghoejhputjhpocyjhup,h‘oeuo’phuhoengbhNhfug’ohjgq sj!’hCx hlgxz
oejhpoxsc?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Ue,hoeuo’phjvw npnoj!hUgxoejs
ixooyj,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhzunojs,hugqhejhijbughoxhsjyuojhenphbxxqhpoxsck

“McxoshNyycnofehRngxrplchngrnojphcx hoxhqsnglhznoehent,”huhynooyjhxyq
zunojshngojss mojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hisngbngbhozxhqjynfuojhbyuppjp
xahpmuslyngbhfeutmubgj,hugqhuqqsjppngbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehugqhYjrngk
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhoejhbyupp,hugqhyxxlngbhoxzusqphuhiuyqhtughznoe
sjqht poufejphuohoejhxoejshjgqhxahoejhouiyj,hejhgxqqjqhoxhent,hptnyngbk

“Zex’phoeuo?”hupljqhYjrngk

“Cx htjohenthxgfjhuohtchmyufj,hqxg’ohcx hsjtjtijs?hUhbxxq-guo sjq
ajyyxzk”

YjrnghqnqhoejhputjhuphPojmughUsluqcjrnofehugqhoxxlhoejhbyuppk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phugjfqxojhoxxhzuphrjschut pngbkhYjrnghoxyqhenp
poxsc,hugqhoeuohoxxhzuphp ffjppa ykhOejghoejchouyljqhxahexspjp,hxahoej
sufjp,hxahzeuohoejcheuqhijjghqxngbhoeuohquc,hugqhxahexzhptusoyc
Rsxgplc’phUoyupheuqhzxghoejhanspohmsndjkhYjrnghqnqhgxohgxonfjhexzhoej
ontjhmuppjqhuohqnggjsk

“Ue!hugqhejsjhoejchusj!”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxzusqphoejhjgqhxa
qnggjs,hyjugngbhxrjshoejhiuflhxahenphfeunshugqhexyqngbhx ohenpheugqhox
Rsxgplc,hzexhfutjh mhznoehuhouyyhxaanfjshxahoejhB usqpkhRsxgplc’phaufj
oxxhijutjqhznoehoejhyxxlhxahbxxq-e txsjqhjg.xctjgohoeuohzuphbjgjsuyhng
oejhfy ikhEjhmsxmmjqhenphjyixzhmyuca yychxghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’p
pex yqjs,hzenpmjsngbhpxtjoengbhoxhent,hugqhejhejyqhx ohenpheugqhox
Yjrnghznoehoejhputjhbxxq-e txsjqhptnyjk

“Rjschbyuqhoxhtjjohcx ,”hejhpunqkh“Nhyxxljqhx ohaxshcx huohoej
jyjfonxg,hi ohNhzuphoxyqhcx heuqhbxgjhuzuck”

“Cjp,hNhyjaohoejhputjhquckhZj’rjh. pohijjghouylngbhxahcx shexspjkhN
fxgbsuo yuojhcx ,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Nohzuphrjschsumnqychs gk”

“Cjp;hcx ’rjhsufjhexspjphoxx,heurjg’ohcx ?”

“Gx,htchauoejsheuq;hi ohNhsjtjtijshugqhlgxzhpxtjoengbhuix ohnok”

“Zejsjheurjhcx hqngjq?”hupljqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zjhzjsjhuohoejhpjfxgqhouiyj,hijengqhoejhfxy tgpk”

“Zj’rjhijjghfjyjisuongbhenphp ffjpp,”hpunqhoejhouyyhfxyxgjykh“No’phenp
pjfxgqhNtmjsnuyhmsndjkhNhznpehNhtnbeoheurjhoejhy flhuohfusqphejheup
znoehexspjpkhZjyy,hzechzupojhoejhmsjfnx phontj?hN’thbxngbhoxhoej
‘ngajsguyhsjbnxgp,’”huqqjqhoejhfxyxgjy,hugqhejhzuyljqhuzuck

“Oeuo’phCuperng,”hRsxgplchpunqhnghugpzjshoxhO sxropng,hugqhejhpuohqxzg
nghoejhrufuojqhpjuohijpnqjhoejtkhEjhqsuglhoejhbyupphxaajsjqhent,hugq
xsqjsjqhuhixooyjhxahzngjkh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahoejhfy ihuotxpmejsjhxs
oejhzngjhejheuqhqs gl,hYjrnghfeuoojqhuzuchoxhRsxgplchxahoejhijpohisjjqp
xahfuooyj,hugqhzuphrjschbyuqhgxohoxhajjyhoejhpynbeojpohexponynochox
oenphtugkhEjhjrjghoxyqhent,hutxgbhxoejshoengbp,hoeuohejheuqhejusqhasxt
enphznajhoeuohpejheuqhtjohenthuohMsngfjpphTuscuhIxsnppxrgu’pk

“Ue,hMsngfjpphTuscuhIxsnppxrgu,hpej’phjvw npnoj!”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hugqhejhoxyqhughugjfqxojhuix ohejshzenfehpjohoejthuyy
yu bengbkhRsxgplchmusonf yusychyu bejqhznoehp fehpntmyjejusojq
ut pjtjgohoeuohYjrnghajyohw nojhsjfxgfnyjqhoxhentk

“Zjyy,heurjhzjhangnpejq?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbjoongbh mhznoehu
ptnyjkh“Yjoh phbxk”


Feumojsh8

Bjoongbh mhasxthoejhouiyj,hYjrnghzuyljqhznoehBubnghoesx behoejhyxaoc
sxxthoxhoejhinyynusqhsxxt,hajjyngbhenphustphpzngbhuphejhzuyljqhznoehu
mjf ynushynbeogjpphugqhjupjkhUphejhfsxppjqhoejhinbhsxxt,hejhfutjh mxg
enphauoejs-ng-yuzk

“Zjyy,hexzhqxhcx hynljhx shOjtmyjhxahNgqxyjgfj?”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,
oulngbhenphustkh“Fxtjhuyxgb,hfxtjhuyxgb!”

“Cjp,hNhzugojqhoxhzuylhuix ohugqhyxxlhuohjrjscoengbkhNo’phngojsjpongbk”

“Cjp,hno’phngojsjpongbhaxshcx khI ohnophngojsjpohaxshtjhnphw noj
qnaajsjgokhCx hyxxlhuohoexpjhynooyjhxyqhtjghgxz,”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhox
uhfy ihtjtijshznoehijgohiuflhugqhmsx.jfongbhynm,hpe aayngbhoxzusqphoejt
nghenphpxaohixxop,h“ugqhntubngjhoeuohoejchzjsjh_pey mnlp_hynljhoeuo
asxthoejnshinsoeh mk”

“Exzh_pey mnlp_?”

“Nhpjjhcx hqxg’ohlgxzhoeuohgutjkhOeuo’phx shfy ihqjpnbguonxgkhCx hlgxz
oejhbutjhxahsxyyngbhjbbp:hzejghxgj’phsxyyjqhuhyxgbhzenyjhnohijfxtjphu
_pey mnl_khPxhnohnphznoeh p;hxgjhbxjphxghfxtngbhugqhfxtngbhoxhoejhfy i,
ugqhjgqphichijfxtngbhuh_pey mnl_khUe,hcx hyu be!hi ohzjhyxxlhx o,haxs
ajushxahqsxmmngbhngoxhnohx spjyrjpkhCx hlgxzhMsngfjhOfejofejgplc?”
ngw nsjqhoejhmsngfj;hugqhYjrnghpuzhichenphaufjhoeuohejhzuph. pohbxngb
oxhsjyuojhpxtjoengbha ggck

“Gx,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhentk”

“Cx hqxg’ohpuchpx!hZjyy,hMsngfjhOfejofejgplchnphuhzjyy-lgxzghanb sjkhGx
tuoojs,hoex bekhEj’phuyzucphmyucngbhinyynusqphejsjkhXgychoesjjhcjusp
ubxhejhzuphgxohuh_pey mnl_hugqhljmoh mhenphpmnsnophugqhjrjgh pjqhox
fuyyhxoejshmjxmyjh_pey mnlp_khI ohxgjhquchejho sgph m,hugqhx shmxsojs
kkkhcx hlgxzhRuppnyc?hZec,hoeuohauohxgj;hej’phautx phaxshenph_ixg
txop_khUgqhpxhMsngfjhOfejofejgplchuplphent,h‘Fxtj,hRuppnyc,hzex’phejsj?
Ugch_pey mnlp_hejsjhcjo?’hUgqhejhpucp,h‘Cx ’sjhoejhoensqk’hCjp,htchqjus
ixc,hoeuohejhqnq!”

Ouylngbhugqhbsjjongbhoejhasnjgqphoejchtjo,hYjrnghugqhoejhmsngfjhzuyljq
oesx behuyyhoejhsxxtp:hoejhbsjuohsxxthzejsjhouiyjpheuqhuysjuqchijjg
pjo,hugqhoejh p uyhmusogjsphzjsjhmyucngbhaxshptuyyhpouljp;hoejhqnrug
sxxt,hzejsjhoejchzjsjhmyucngbhfejpp,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphpnoongb
ouylngbhoxhpxtjixqc;hoejhinyynusqhsxxt,hzejsj,huix ohuhpxauhnghu
sjfjpp,hoejsjhzuphuhynrjychmusochqsnglngbhfeutmubgj—Bubnghzuphxgjhxa
oejtkhOejchmjjmjqhngoxhoejh“ngajsguyhsjbnxgp,”hzejsjhuhbxxqhtugchtjg
zjsjhfsxzqngbhsx gqhxgjhouiyj,huohzenfehCupernghzuphpnoongbkhOscngbhgxo
oxhtuljhuhgxnpj,hoejchzuyljqhngoxhoejhquslhsjuqngbhsxxt,hzejsjh gqjs
oejhpeuqjqhyutmphoejsjhpuohuhcx gbhtughznoehuhzsuoea yhfx gojgugfj,
o sgngbhxrjshxgjh.x sguyhuaojshugxoejs,hugqhuhiuyqhbjgjsuyhi snjqhnghu
ixxlkhOejchzjgo,hoxx,hngoxhzeuohoejhmsngfjhfuyyjqhoejhngojyyjfo uy
sxxt,hzejsjhoesjjhbjgoyjtjghzjsjhjgbubjqhnghuhejuojqhqnpf ppnxghxahoej
yuojpohmxynonfuyhgjzpk

“Msngfj,hmyjupjhfxtj,hzj’sjhsjuqc,”hpunqhxgjhxahenphfusqhmusoc,hzexheuq
fxtjhoxhyxxlhaxshent,hugqhoejhmsngfjhzjgohxaakhYjrnghpuohqxzghugq
ynpojgjq,hi ohsjfuyyngbhuyyhoejhfxgrjspuonxghxahoejhtxsgngbhejhajyohuyy
xahuhp qqjghajusa yychixsjqkhEjhbxoh mhe ssnjqyc,hugqhzjgohoxhyxxlhaxs
XiyxgplchugqhO sxropng,hznoehzexthnoheuqhijjghpxhmyjupugok

O sxropnghzuphxgjhxahoejhfnsfyjhqsnglngbhnghoejhinyynusqhsxxt,hugq
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphouylngbhznoehRsxgplchgjushoejhqxxshuohoej
ausoejshfxsgjshxahoejhsxxtk

“No’phgxohoeuohpej’phq yy;hi ohoenph gqjangjq,hoenph gpjooyjq
mxpnonxg,”hYjrnghfu beo,hugqhejhzuphe sscngbhuzuc,hi ohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehfuyyjqhoxhentk

“Yjrng,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugqhYjrnghgxonfjqhoeuohenphjcjphzjsj
gxoha yyhxahojusphjvufoyc,hi ohtxnpo,hzenfehuyzucpheummjgjqhzejghejheuq
ijjghqsnglngb,hxshzejghejhzuphox fejqkh. pohgxzhnohzuphq jhoxhixoe
fu pjpkh“Yjrng,hqxg’ohbx,”hejhpunq,hugqhejhzustychpw jjdjqhenphust
uixrjhoejhjyixz,hxirnx pychgxohuohuyyhznpengbhoxhyjohenthbxk

“Oenphnphuhos jhasnjgqhxahtngj—uytxpohtchbsjuojpohasnjgq,”hejhpunqhox
Rsxgplckh“Cx heurjhijfxtjhjrjghfyxpjshugqhqjusjshoxhtjkhUgqhNhzugohcx ,
ugqhNhlgxzhcx hx beo,hoxhijhasnjgqp,hugqhbsjuohasnjgqp,hijfu pjhcx ’sj
ixoehpmyjgqnqhajyyxzpk”

“Zjyy,hoejsj’phgxoengbhaxsh phgxzhi ohoxhlnpphugqhijhasnjgqp,”hRsxgplc
punq,hznoehbxxq-guo sjqhmyuca ygjpp,hexyqngbhx ohenpheugqk

Yjrnghw nflychoxxlhoejhxaajsjqheugq,hugqhmsjppjqhnohzustyck

“N’thrjsc,hrjschbyuq,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Zunojs,huhixooyjhxahfeutmubgj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“UgqhN’thrjschbyuq,”hpunqhRsxgplck

I ohnghpmnojhxahPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phqjpnsj,hugqhoejnshxzghqjpnsj,
oejcheuqhgxoengbhoxhouylhuix o,hugqhixoehajyohnok

“Qxhcx hlgxz,hejheuphgjrjshtjohUggu?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhox
Rsxgplckh“UgqhNhzugohuixrjhjrjscoengbhoxhouljhenthoxhpjjhejskhYjoh p
bx,hYjrng!”

“Sjuyyc?”hpunqhRsxgplckh“Pejhznyyhijhrjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx khNhpex yqhij
bxngbhextjhuohxgfj,”hejhuqqjq,h“i ohN’thzxssnjqhuix ohCuperng,hugqhN
zugohoxhpouchxghonyyhejhangnpejpk”

“Zec,hnphejhyxpngb?”

“Ejhljjmphyxpngb,hugqhN’thoejhxgychasnjgqhoeuohfughsjposunghentk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohqxhcx hpuchoxhmcsutnqp?hYjrng,hznyyhcx hmyuc?hFumnouy!”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Bjohoejhouiyjhsjuqc,”hejhpunqhoxhoejhtusljsk

“Noheuphijjghsjuqchuhyxgbhzenyj,”hugpzjsjqhoejhtusljs,hzexheuqhuysjuqc
pjohoejhiuyyphnghuhosnugbyj,hugqhzuphlgxflngbhoejhsjqhxgjhuix ohaxshenp
xzghqnrjspnxgk

“Zjyy,hyjoh phijbngk”

UaojshoejhbutjhRsxgplchugqhYjrnghpuohqxzghuohBubng’phouiyj,hugqhuo
PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’php bbjponxghYjrnghoxxlhuheugqhnghoejhbutjk

Rsxgplchpuohqxzghuohoejhouiyj,hp ssx gqjqhichasnjgqp,hzexhzjsj
ngfjppugoychfxtngbh mhoxhentkhJrjschgxzhugqhoejghejhzjgohoxhoej
“ngajsguy”hoxhljjmhughjcjhxghCuperngkhYjrnghzuphjg.xcngbhuhqjynbeoa y
pjgpjhxahsjmxpjhuaojshoejhtjgouyhauonb jhxahoejhtxsgngbkhEjhzuphbyuq
oeuohuyyhexponynochzuphuohughjgqhznoehRsxgplc,hugqhoejhpjgpjhxahmjufj,
qjfxs t,hugqhfxtaxsohgjrjshyjaohentk

Zejghoejhbutjhzuphxrjs,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxxlhYjrng’phustk

“Zjyy,hyjoh phbxhoxhUggu’p,hoejgkhUohxgfj?hJe?hPejhnphuohextjkhN
msxtnpjqhejshyxgbhubxhoxhisngbhcx khZejsjhzjsjhcx htjugngbhoxhpmjgqhoej
jrjgngb?”

“Xe,hgxzejsjhpmjfnuyyckhNhmsxtnpjqhPrnudeplchoxhbxhoxhoejhPxfnjochxa
Ubsnf yo sjkhIchuyyhtjugp,hyjoh phbx,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Rjschbxxq;hfxtjhuyxgbkhAngqhx ohnahtchfussnubjhnphejsj,”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhoejhzunojsk

Yjrnghzjgoh mhoxhoejhouiyj,hmunqhoejhaxsochsx iyjphejheuqhyxpo;hmunq
enphinyy,hoejhutx gohxahzenfehzuphnghpxtjhtcpojsnx phzuchupfjsoungjqhic
oejhynooyjhxyqhzunojshzexhpoxxqhuohoejhfx gojs,hugqhpzngbngbhenphustp
ejhzuyljqhoesx behuyyhoejhsxxtphoxhoejhzuchx ok


Feumojsh9

“Xiyxgplc’phfussnubj!”hoejhmxsojshpex ojqhnghughugbschiuppkhOej
fussnubjhqsxrjh mhugqhixoehbxohngkhNohzuphxgychaxshoejhanspohajz
txtjgop,hzenyjhoejhfussnubjhzuphqsnrngbhx ohxahoejhfy iex pjhbuojp,
oeuohYjrnghzuphponyyh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahoejhfy ihuotxpmejsjhxa
sjmxpj,hfxtaxso,hugqh gntmjufeuiyjhbxxqhaxstkhI ohuphpxxghuphoej
fussnubjhqsxrjhx ohngoxhoejhposjjo,hugqhejhajyohnoh.xyongbhxrjshoej
 gjrjghsxuq,hejusqhoejhugbschpex ohxahuhpyjqbjhqsnrjshfxtngbhoxzusqp
oejt,hpuzhnghoejh gfjsounghynbeohoejhsjqhiyngqhxahuhourjsghugqhoej
pexmp,hoenphntmsjppnxghzuphqnppnmuojq,hugqhejhijbughoxhoenglhxrjshenp
ufonxgp,hugqhoxhzxgqjshzejoejshejhzuphqxngbhsnbeohnghbxngbhoxhpjjhUgguk
Zeuohzx yqhLnoochpuc?hI ohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehburjhenthgxhontjhaxs
sjayjfonxg,hugq,huphoex behqnrngngbhenphqx iop,hejhpfuoojsjqhoejtk

“ExzhbyuqhNhut,”hejhpunq,h“oeuohcx hpex yqhlgxzhejs!hCx hlgxzhQxyycheup
yxgbhznpejqhaxshnokhUgqhYrxr’phijjghoxhpjjhejs,hugqhxaojghbxjpkhOex be
pejhnphtchpnpojs,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehm sp jq,h“Nhqxg’ohejpnouojhox
puchoeuohpej’phuhsjtusluiyjhzxtugkhI ohcx hznyyhpjjkhEjshmxpnonxghnp
rjschmunga y,hjpmjfnuyychgxzk”

“Zechjpmjfnuyychgxz?”

“Zjhusjhfusscngbhxghgjbxonuonxgphznoehejshe piugqhuix ohuhqnrxsfjkhUgq
ej’phubsjjq;hi ohoejsjhusjhqnaanf yonjphnghsjbusqhoxhoejhpxg,hugqhoej
i pngjpp,hzenfehx beohoxheurjhijjghussugbjqhyxgbhubx,heuphijjghqsubbngb
xghaxshoesjjhtxgoephmupokhUphpxxghuphoejhqnrxsfjhnphxrjs,hpejhznyy
tusschRsxgplckhExzhpo mnqhoejpjhxyqhfjsjtxgnjphusj,hoeuohgxhxgj
ijynjrjphng,hugqhzenfehxgychmsjrjgohmjxmyjhijngbhfxtaxsouiyj!”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehm ohngkh“Zjyy,hoejghoejnshmxpnonxghznyyhijhuphsjb yushup
tngj,huphcx spk”

“Zeuohnphoejhqnaanf yoc?”hpunqhYjrngk

“Xe,hno’phuhyxgbhugqhojqnx phpoxsc!hOejhzexyjhi pngjpphnphnghp fehug
ugxtuyx phmxpnonxghznoeh pkhI ohoejhmxngohnphpejheuphijjghaxshoesjj
txgoephnghTxpfxz,hzejsjhjrjscxgjhlgxzphejs,hzunongbhaxshoejhqnrxsfj;
pejhbxjphx ohgxzejsj,hpjjphgxhzxtughjvfjmohQxyyc,hijfu pj,hqxhcx 
 gqjspougq,hpejhqxjpg’ohfusjhoxheurjhmjxmyjhfxtjhuphuhaurxskhOeuohaxxy
MsngfjpphRusrusu,hjrjghpejheuphyjaohejs,hfxgpnqjsngbhoenphuhisjufehxa
msxmsnjockhZjyy,hcx hpjj,hnghp fehuhmxpnonxghugchxoejshzxtughzx yqhgxo
eurjhax gqhsjpx sfjphnghejspjyakhI ohcx ’yyhpjjhexzhpejheuphussugbjq
ejshynaj—exzhfuyt,hexzhqnbgnanjqhpejhnpkhOxhoejhyjao,hnghoejhfsjpfjgo
xmmxpnojhoejhfe sfe!”hpex ojqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hyjugngbhx ohxahoej
zngqxzkh“Mejz!hexzhexohnohnp!”hejhpunq,hnghpmnojhxahozjyrjhqjbsjjphxa
asxpo,hayngbngbhenphxmjghxrjsfxuohponyyhznqjshxmjgk

“I ohpejheuphuhqu beojs:hgxhqx iohpej’phi pchyxxlngbhuaojshejs?”hpunq
Yjrngk

“Nhijynjrjhcx hmnfo sjhjrjschzxtughpntmychuphuhajtuyj,h_ gjhfx rj pj,_”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Nahpej’phxff mnjq,hnoht pohijhznoehejs
fenyqsjgkhGx,hpejhisngbphejsh mhfumnouyyc,hNhijynjrj,hi ohxgjhqxjpg’o
ejushuix ohejskhPej’phi pc,hnghoejhanspohmyufj,hznoehzeuohpejhzsnojpkhN
pjjhcx ’sjhptnyngbhnsxgnfuyyc,hi ohcx ’sjhzsxgbkhPej’phzsnongbhu
fenyqsjg’phixxl,hugqhqxjpg’ohouylhuix ohnohoxhugcxgj,hi ohpejhsjuqhno
oxhtjhugqhNhburjhoejhtug pfsnmohoxhRxsl jrhkkkhcx hlgxzhoejhm iynpejs
kkkhugqhej’phughu oexshentpjyahoxx,hNhaugfckhEjh gqjspougqphoexpj
oengbp,hugqhejhpucphno’phuhsjtusluiyjhmnjfjhxahzxslkhI ohusjhcx 
augfcngbhpej’phughu oexsjpp?—gxohuhinohxahnokhPej’phuhzxtughznoehu
ejuso,hijaxsjhjrjscoengb,hi ohcx ’yyhpjjkhGxzhpejheuphuhynooyjhJgbynpe
bnsyhznoehejs,hugqhuhzexyjhautnychpej’phyxxlngbhuaojsk”

“Xe,hpxtjoengbhnghuhmenyugoesxmnfhzuc?”

“Zec,hcx hznyyhyxxlhuohjrjscoengbhnghoejhzxspohynbeokhNo’phgxohasxt
menyugoesxmc,hno’phasxthoejhejusokhOejc—oeuohnp,hRsxgplc—euqhuhosungjs,
ughJgbynpetug,hanspo-suojhnghenphxzghyngj,hi ohuhqs glusqkhEj’p
fxtmyjojychbnrjgh mhoxhqsngl—qjynsn thosjtjgp—ugqhoejhautnychzjsjhfupo
xghoejhzxsyqkhPejhpuzhoejt,hejymjqhoejt,hbxohtxsjhugqhtxsjhngojsjpojq
nghoejt,hugqhgxzhoejhzexyjhautnychnphxghejsheugqpkhI ohgxohichzuchxa
muosxgubj,hcx hlgxz,hejymngbhznoehtxgjc;hpej’phejspjyahmsjmusngbhoej
ixcphnghS ppnughaxshoejhenbehpfexxy,hugqhpej’phouljghoejhynooyjhbnsyhox
ynrjhznoehejskhI ohcx ’yyhpjjhejshaxshcx spjyak”

Oejhfussnubjhqsxrjhngoxhoejhfx socusq,hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsugb
yx qychuohoejhjgosugfjhzejsjhpyjqbjphzjsjhpougqngbk

Ugqhznoex ohuplngbhoejhpjsrugohzexhxmjgjqhoejhqxxshzejoejshoejhyuqc
zjsjhuohextj,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuyljqhngoxhoejheuyykhYjrnghaxyyxzjq
ent,htxsjhugqhtxsjhqx ioa yhzejoejshejhzuphqxngbhsnbeohxshzsxgbk

Yxxlngbhuohentpjyahnghoejhbyupp,hYjrnghgxonfjqhoeuohejhzuphsjqhnghoej
aufj,hi ohejhajyohfjsounghejhzuphgxohqs gl,hugqhejhaxyyxzjqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofeh mhoejhfusmjojqhpounspkhUohoejhoxmhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
ngw nsjqhxahoejhaxxotug,hzexhixzjqhoxhenthuphoxhughngontuojhasnjgq,hzex
zuphznoehUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hugqhsjfjnrjqhoejhugpzjshoeuohnohzuphTk
Rxsl jrk

“Zejsjhusjhoejc?”

“Nghoejhpo qck”

Muppngbhoesx behoejhqngngb-sxxt,huhsxxthgxohrjschyusbj,hznoehqusl,
mugjyjqhzuyyp,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehugqhYjrnghzuyljqhxrjshoejhpxao
fusmjohoxhoejheuya-quslhpo qc,hynbeojqh mhichuhpngbyjhyutmhznoehuhinb
quslhpeuqjkhUgxoejshyutmhznoehuhsjayjfoxshzupheugbngbhxghoejhzuyy,
ynbeongbh mhuhinbha yy-yjgboehmxsosunohxahuhzxtug,hzenfehYjrnghfx yq
gxohejymhyxxlngbhuokhNohzuphoejhmxsosunohxahUggu,hmungojqhnghNouychic
TneunyxrkhZenyjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohijengqhoejh_osjnyyubj_,hugq
oejhtug’phrxnfjhzenfeheuqhijjghpmjulngbhmu pjq,hYjrnghbudjqhuohoej
mxsosuno,hzenfehpoxxqhx ohasxthoejhasutjhnghoejhisnyynugohynbeohoesxzg
xghno,hugqhejhfx yqhgxohojushentpjyahuzuchasxthnokhEjhmxpnonrjychaxsbxo
zejsjhejhzup,hugqhgxohjrjghejusngbhzeuohzuphpunq,hejhfx yqhgxohouljhenp
jcjphxaahoejhtusrjyx phmxsosunokhNohzuphgxohuhmnfo sj,hi ohuhynrngb,
feustngbhzxtug,hznoehiyuflhf syngbheuns,hznoehiusjhustphugqhpex yqjsp,
znoehuhmjgpnrjhptnyjhxghoejhynmp,hfxrjsjqhznoehpxaohqxzg;hosn tmeugoyc
ugqhpxaoychpejhyxxljqhuohenthznoehjcjphoeuohiuaayjqhentkhPejhzuphgxo
ynrngbhxgychijfu pjhpejhzuphtxsjhiju ona yhoeughuhynrngbhzxtughfughijk

“Nhuthqjynbeojq!”hEjhejusqhp qqjgychgjushenthuhrxnfj,h gtnpouluiyc
uqqsjppngbhent,hoejhrxnfjhxahoejhrjschzxtughejheuqhijjghuqtnsngbhnghoej
mxsosunokhUgguheuqhfxtjhasxthijengqhoejh_osjnyyubj_hoxhtjjohent,hugq
Yjrnghpuzhnghoejhqnthynbeohxahoejhpo qchoejhrjschzxtughxahoejhmxsosuno,
nghuhquslhiy jhpexohbxzg,hgxohnghoejhputjhmxpnonxghgxshznoehoejhputj
jvmsjppnxg,hi ohznoehoejhputjhmjsajfonxghxahiju ochzenfehoejhusonpoheuq
fu beohnghoejhmxsosunokhPejhzuphyjpphquddyngbhnghsjuynoc,hi o,hxghoej
xoejsheugq,hoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhasjpehugqhpjq fonrjhnghoejhynrngbhzxtug
zenfehzuphgxohnghoejhmxsosunok


Feumojsh10

Pejheuqhsnpjghoxhtjjohent,hgxohfxgfjuyngbhejshmyjup sjhuohpjjngbhent;
ugqhnghoejhw njohjupjhznoehzenfehpejhejyqhx ohejshynooyjhrnbxsx pheugq,
ngosxq fjqhenthoxhRxsl jrhugqhngqnfuojqhuhsjq-eunsjq,hmsjoochynooyj
bnsyhzexhzuphpnoongbhuohzxsl,hfuyyngbhejshejshm mny,hYjrnghsjfxbgndjq
ugqhynljqhoejhtuggjsphxahuhzxtughxahoejhbsjuohzxsyq,huyzucp
pjya-mxppjppjqhugqhguo suyk

“Nhuthqjynbeojq,hqjynbeojq,”hpejhsjmjuojq,hugqhxghejshynmphoejpjhpntmyj
zxsqphoxxlhaxshYjrng’phjusphuhpmjfnuyhpnbgnanfugfjkh“Nheurjhlgxzghcx 
ugqhynljqhcx haxshuhyxgbhzenyj,hixoehasxthcx shasnjgqpenmhznoehPonru
ugqhaxshcx shznaj’phpuljkkkkhNhlgjzhejshaxshuhrjschpexsohontj,hi ohpej
yjaohxghtjhoejhntmsjppnxghxahughjvw npnojhayxzjs,hpntmychuhayxzjskhUgq
oxhoenglhpejhznyyhpxxghijhuhtxoejs!”

Pejhpmxljhjupnychugqhznoex oheupoj,hyxxlngbhgxzhugqhoejghasxthYjrnghox
ejshisxoejs,hugqhYjrnghajyohoeuohoejhntmsjppnxghejhzuphtulngbhzuphbxxq,
ugqhejhajyohnttjqnuojychuohextj,hpntmyjhugqheummchznoehejs,huphoex be
ejheuqhlgxzghejshasxthfenyqexxqk

“NrughMjosxrnofehugqhNhpjooyjqhnghUyjvjc’phpo qc,”hpejhpunqhnghugpzjs
oxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phw jponxghzejoejshejhtnbeohptxlj,h“. pohpxhup
oxhijhuiyjhoxhptxlj”—ugqhbyugfngbhuohYjrng,hngpojuqhxahuplngbhzejoejs
ejhzx yqhptxlj,hpejhm yyjqhfyxpjshuhoxsoxnpj-pejyyhfnbus-fupjhugqhoxxl
uhfnbusjoojk

“Exzhusjhcx hajjyngbhoxquc?”hejshisxoejshupljqhejsk

“Xe,hgxoengbkhGjsrjp,huph p uyk”

“Cjp,hnpg’ohnohjvosuxsqngusnychangj?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
gxonfngbhoeuohYjrnghzuphpfs ongndngbhoejhmnfo sjk

“Nheurjhgjrjshpjjghuhijoojshmxsosunok”

“Ugqhjvosuxsqngusnychynlj,hnpg’ohno?”hpunqhRxsl jrk

YjrnghyxxljqhasxthoejhmxsosunohoxhoejhxsnbnguykhUhmjf ynushisnyynugfj
ynbeojqh mhUggu’phaufjhzejghpejhajyohenphjcjphxghejskhYjrnghay pejq,
ugqhoxhfxrjshenphfxga pnxghzx yqheurjhupljqhzejoejshpejheuqhpjjghQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrguhyuojyc;hi ohuohoeuohtxtjgohUgguhpmxljkh“Zjhzjsjh. po
ouylngb,hNrughMjosxrnofehugqhN,hxahRupeofejglxr’phyupohmnfo sjpkhEurj
cx hpjjghoejt?”

“Cjp,hNheurjhpjjghoejt,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk

“I o,hNhijbhcx shmusqxg,hNhngojss mojqhcx hkkkhcx hzjsjhpucngb?kkk”

YjrnghupljqhnahpejheuqhpjjghQxyychyuojyck

“PejhzuphejsjhcjpojsquckhPejhzuphrjschngqnbgugohznoehoejhenbehpfexxy
mjxmyjhxghBsnpeu’phuffx gokhOejhYuonghojufejs,hnohpjjtp,heuqhijjg
 gaunshoxhentk”

“Cjp,hNheurjhpjjghenphmnfo sjpkhNhqnqg’ohfusjhaxshoejthrjscht fe,”
Yjrnghzjgohiuflhoxhoejhp i.jfohpejheuqhpousojqk

Yjrnghouyljqhgxzhgxohuohuyyhznoehoeuohm sjychi pngjppynljhuoono qjhox
oejhp i.jfohznoehzenfehejheuqhijjghouylngbhuyyhoejhtxsgngbkhJrjschzxsq
nghenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehejsheuqhuhpmjfnuyhpnbgnanfugfjkhUgqhouylngbhox
ejshzuphmyjupugo;hponyyhmyjupugojshnohzuphoxhynpojghoxhejsk

Ugguhouyljqhgxohtjsjychguo suyychugqhfyjrjsyc,hi ohfyjrjsychugq
fusjyjppyc,huooufengbhgxhruy jhoxhejshxzghnqjuphugqhbnrngbhbsjuohzjnbeo
oxhoejhnqjuphxahoejhmjspxghpejhzuphouylngbhoxk

Oejhfxgrjspuonxgho sgjqhxghoejhgjzhtxrjtjgohnghuso,hxghoejhgjz
nyy posuonxgphxahoejhIniyjhichuhAsjgfehusonpokhRxsl jrhuooufljqhoej
usonpohaxshuhsjuynpthfussnjqhoxhoejhmxngohxahfxuspjgjppk

YjrnghpunqhoeuohoejhAsjgfeheuqhfussnjqhfxgrjgonxguynocha soejshoeug
ugcxgj,hugqhoeuohfxgpjw jgoychoejchpjjhuhbsjuohtjsnohnghoejhsjo sghox
sjuynptkhNghoejhaufohxahgxohycngbhoejchpjjhmxjosck

GjrjsheuqhugcoengbhfyjrjshpunqhichYjrnghbnrjghenthpxht fehmyjup sjhup
oenphsjtuslkhUggu’phaufjhynbeojqh mhuohxgfj,huphuohxgfjhpejhummsjfnuojq
oejhoex beokhPejhyu bejqk

“Nhyu be,”hpejhpunq,h“uphxgjhyu bephzejghxgjhpjjphuhrjschos jhmxsosunok
Zeuohcx hpunqhpxhmjsajfoychenophxaahAsjgfehusohgxz,hmungongbhugq
ynojsuo sjhoxx,hngqjjq—Dxyu,hQu qjokhI ohmjseumphnohnphuyzucphpx,hoeuo
tjghaxsthoejnshfxgfjmonxgphasxthanfononx p,hfxgrjgonxguyhocmjp,hugq
oejg—uyyhoejh_fxtingunpxgp_htuqj—oejchusjhonsjqhxahoejhanfononx p
anb sjphugqhijbnghoxhngrjgohtxsjhguo suy,hos jhanb sjpk”

“Oeuo’phmjsajfoychos j,”hpunqhRxslgjrk

“Pxhcx ’rjhijjghuohoejhfy i?”hpejhpunqhoxhejshisxoejsk

“Cjp,hcjp,hoenphnphuhzxtug!”hYjrnghoex beo,haxsbjoongbhentpjyahugq
pousngbhmjspnpojgoychuohejshyxrjyc,htxinyjhaufj,hzenfehuohoeuohtxtjgo
zuphuyyhuohxgfjhfxtmyjojychosugpaxstjqkhYjrnghqnqhgxohejushzeuohpejhzup
ouylngbhxahuphpejhyjugjqhxrjshoxhejshisxoejs,hi ohejhzuphpos flhichoej
feugbjhxahejshjvmsjppnxgkhEjshaufj—pxheugqpxtjhuhtxtjgohijaxsjhnghnop
sjmxpj—p qqjgychzxsjhuhyxxlhxahposugbjhf snxpnoc,hugbjs,hugqhmsnqjkhI o
oenphyupojqhxgychughngpougokhPejhqsxmmjqhejshjcjynqp,huphoex be
sjfxyyjfongbhpxtjoengbk

“Xe,hzjyy,hi ohoeuo’phxahgxhngojsjpohoxhugcxgj,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpej
o sgjqhoxhoejhJgbynpehbnsyk

“Myjupjhxsqjshoejhojuhnghoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,”hpejhpunqhnghJgbynpek

Oejhbnsyhbxoh mhugqhzjgohx ok

“Zjyy,hexzhqnqhpejhbjohoesx behejshjvutnguonxg?”hupljqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofek

“Pmyjgqnqyc!hPej’phuhrjschbnaojqhfenyqhugqhuhpzjjohfeusufojsk”

“Nohznyyhjgqhnghcx shyxrngbhejshtxsjhoeughcx shxzgk”

“OejsjhuhtughpmjulpkhNghyxrjhoejsj’phgxhtxsjhgxshyjppkhNhyxrjhtc
qu beojshznoehxgjhyxrj,hugqhejshznoehugxoejsk”

“Nhzuph. pohojyyngbhUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hpunqhRxsl jr,h“oeuohnahpejhzjsj
oxhm ohuhe gqsjqoehmusohxahoejhjgjsbchpejhqjrxojphoxhoenphJgbynpehbnsy
oxhoejhm iynfhw jponxghxahoejhjq fuonxghxahS ppnughfenyqsjg,hpejhzx yq
ijhqxngbhuhbsjuohugqh pja yhzxslk”

“Cjp,hi ohNhfug’ohejymhno;hNhfx yqg’ohqxhnokhFx gohUyjvjchLnsnyyxrnofe
 sbjqhtjhrjscht fe”h(uphpejh oojsjqhoejhzxsqph_Fx gohUyjvjc
Lnsnyyxrnofe_hpejhbyugfjqhznoehummjuyngbhontnqnochuohYjrng,hugqhej
 gfxgpfnx pychsjpmxgqjqhznoehuhsjpmjfoa yhugqhsjupp sngbhyxxl);h“ej
 sbjqhtjhoxhouljh mhoejhpfexxyhnghoejhrnyyubjkhNhrnpnojqhnohpjrjsuy
ontjpkhOejhfenyqsjghzjsjhrjschgnfj,hi ohNhfx yqhgxohajjyhqsuzghoxhoej
zxslkhCx hpmjulhxahjgjsbckhJgjsbchsjpoph mxghyxrj;hugqhfxtjhuphnohznyy,
oejsj’phgxhaxsfngbhnokhNhoxxlhoxhoenphfenyq—Nhfx yqhgxohtcpjyahpuc
zeck”

UgqhpejhbyugfjqhubunghuohYjrngkhUgqhejshptnyjhugqhejshbyugfj—uyyhoxyq
enthoeuohnohzuphoxhenthxgychpejhzuphuqqsjppngbhejshzxsqp,hruy ngbhenp
bxxqhxmngnxg,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhp sjhijaxsjeugqhoeuohoejch gqjspoxxq
jufehxoejsk

“Nhw nojh gqjspougqhoeuo,”hYjrnghugpzjsjqkh“No’phntmxppniyjhoxhbnrj
xgj’phejusohoxhuhpfexxyhxshp fehngpono onxgphnghbjgjsuy,hugqhNhijynjrj
oeuo’ph. pohzechmenyugoesxmnfhngpono onxgphuyzucphbnrjhp fehmxxs
sjp yopk”

Pejhzuphpnyjgohaxshuhzenyj,hoejghpejhptnyjqk

“Cjp,hcjp,”hpejhubsjjq;h“Nhgjrjshfx yqkh_.jhg’unhmuphyjhfœ shuppjd_
yusbjhoxhyxrjhuhzexyjhupcy thxahexssnqhynooyjhbnsypkh_Fjyuhgjht’u
.utunphsé ppnk_hOejsjhusjhpxhtugchzxtjghzexheurjhtuqjhoejtpjyrjph_ gj
mxpnonxghpxfnuyj_hnghoeuohzuckhUgqhgxzhtxsjhoeughjrjs,”hpejhpunqhznoehu
tx sga y,hfxganqngbhjvmsjppnxg,hxpojgpniychuqqsjppngbhejshisxoejs,hi o
 gtnpouluiychngojgqngbhejshzxsqphxgychaxshYjrng,h“gxzhzejghNheurjhp fe
gjjqhxahpxtjhxff muonxg,hNhfuggxok”hUgqhp qqjgychasxzgngbh(Yjrnghpuz
oeuohpejhzuphasxzgngbhuohejspjyahaxshouylngbhuix ohejspjya)hpejhfeugbjq
oejhp i.jfokh“Nhlgxzhuix ohcx ,”hpejhpunqhoxhYjrng;h“oeuohcx ’sjhgxohu
m iynf-pmnsnojqhfnondjg,hugqhNheurjhqjajgqjqhcx hoxhoejhijpohxahtc
uinynock”

“Exzheurjhcx hqjajgqjqhtj?”

“Xe,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhuoouflphtuqjhxghcx khI ohzxg’ohcx heurjhpxtj
oju?”hPejhsxpjhugqhoxxlh mhuhixxlhix gqhnghtxsxffxk

“Bnrjhnohoxhtj,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,”hpunqhRxsl jr,hngqnfuongbhoejhixxlk
“No’phzjyyhzxsoehoulngbh mk”

“Xe,hgx,hno’phuyyhpxhpljofeck”

“Nhoxyqhenthuix ohno,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhoxhenphpnpojs,hgxqqngb
uohYjrngk

“Cx hpex yqg’oheurjkhTchzsnongbhnphpxtjoengbhuaojshoejhaupenxghxahoexpj
ynooyjhiupljophugqhfusrngbhzenfehYnduhTjsopuyxruh pjqhoxhpjyyhtjhasxt
oejhmsnpxgpkhPejheuqhoejhqnsjfonxghxahoejhmsnpxghqjmusotjgohnghoeuo
pxfnjoc,”hpejho sgjqhoxhYjrng;h“ugqhoejchzjsjhtnsufyjphxahmuonjgfj,hoej
zxslhxahoexpjhmxxshzsjofejpk”

UgqhYjrnghpuzhuhgjzhosunohnghoenphzxtug,hzexhuoosufojqhenthpx
jvosuxsqngusnyckhIjpnqjphzno,hbsufj,hugqhiju oc,hpejheuqhos oekhPejheuq
gxhznpehoxhenqjhasxthenthuyyhoejhinoojsgjpphxahejshmxpnonxgkhUphpej
punqhoeuohpejhpnbejq,hugqhejshaufjhp qqjgychoulngbhuheusqhjvmsjppnxg,
yxxljqhuphnohzjsjho sgjqhoxhpoxgjkhZnoehoeuohjvmsjppnxghxghejshaufjhpej
zuphtxsjhiju ona yhoeughjrjs;hi ohoejhjvmsjppnxghzuphgjz;hnohzup
 oojsych gynljhoeuohjvmsjppnxg,hsuqnugohznoeheummngjpphugqhfsjuongb
eummngjpp,hzenfeheuqhijjghfu beohichoejhmungojshnghejshmxsosunokhYjrng
yxxljqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhuohoejhmxsosunohugqhuohejshanb sj,huphoulngbhejs
isxoejs’phusthpejhzuyljqhznoehenthoxhoejhenbehqxxsphugqhejhajyohaxshejs
uhojgqjsgjpphugqhmnochuohzenfehejhzxgqjsjqhentpjyak

PejhupljqhYjrnghugqhRxsl jrhoxhbxhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzenyjhpej
poucjqhijengqhoxhpuchuhajzhzxsqphoxhejshisxoejskh“Uix ohejshqnrxsfj,
uix ohRsxgplc,hugqhzeuohej’phqxngbhuohoejhfy i,huix ohtj?”hzxgqjsjq
YjrngkhUgqhejhzuphpxhljjgychngojsjpojqhichoejhw jponxghxahzeuohpejhzup
pucngbhoxhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hoeuohejhpfusfjychejusqhzeuohRxsl jrhzup
ojyyngbhenthxahoejhw uynonjphxahoejhpoxschaxshfenyqsjghUgguhUsluqcjrgu
euqhzsnoojgk

Uohojuhoejhputjhmyjupugohpxsohxahouyl,ha yyhxahngojsjpongbhtuoojs,
fxgong jqkhOejsjhzuphgxohuhpngbyjhngpougohzejghuhp i.jfohaxs
fxgrjspuonxghzuphoxhpjjl;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hnohzuphajyohoeuohxgjheuq
eusqychontjhoxhpuchzeuohxgjheuqhoxhpuc,hugqhjubjsychejyqhiuflhoxhejus
zeuohoejhxoejsphzjsjhpucngbkhUgqhuyyhoeuohzuphpunq,hgxohxgychichejs,
i ohichRxsl jrhugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe—uyy,hpxhnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrng,
bungjqhmjf ynushpnbgnanfugfjhasxthejshummsjfnuonxghugqhejshfsnonfnptk
Zenyjhejhaxyyxzjqhoenphngojsjpongbhfxgrjspuonxg,hYjrnghzuphuyyhoejhontj
uqtnsngbhejs—ejshiju oc,hejshngojyynbjgfj,hejshf yo sj,hugqhuohoejhputj
ontjhejshqnsjfogjpphugqhbjg ngjhqjmoehxahajjyngbkhEjhynpojgjqhugq
ouyljq,hugqhuyyhoejhzenyjhejhzuphoenglngbhxahejshnggjshynaj,hoscngbhox
qnrngjhejshajjyngbpkhUgqhoex behejheuqh. qbjqhejshpxhpjrjsjychenoejsox,
gxzhichpxtjhposugbjhfeunghxahsjupxgngbhejhzuph. ponacngbhejshugqhzup
uypxhpxsschaxshejs,hugqhuasunqhoeuohRsxgplchqnqhgxoha yych gqjspougq
ejskhUohjyjrjghx’fyxfl,hzejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofehbxoh mhoxhbxh(Rxsl jr
euqhyjaohjusynjs),hnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghoeuohejheuqhxgych. pohfxtjk
Sjbsjoa yychYjrnghoxxhsxpjk

“Bxxq-icj,”hpejhpunq,hexyqngbhenpheugqhugqhbyugfngbhngoxhenphaufjhznoe
uhznggngbhyxxlkh“Nhuthrjschbyuqh_w jhyuhbyufjhjpohsxtm jk_”

Pejhqsxmmjqhenpheugq,hugqheuyahfyxpjqhejshjcjpk

“Ojyyhcx shznajhoeuohNhyxrjhejshuphijaxsj,hugqhoeuohnahpejhfuggxo
musqxghtjhtchmxpnonxg,hoejghtchznpehaxshejshnphoeuohpejhtuchgjrjs
musqxghnokhOxhmusqxghno,hxgjht pohbxhoesx behzeuohNheurjhbxgjhoesx be,
ugqhtuchBxqhpmusjhejshoeuok”

“Fjsoungyc,hcjp,hNhznyyhojyyhejskkkk”hYjrnghpunq,hiy pengbk


Feumojsh11

“Zeuohuhtusrjyx p,hpzjjohugqh geummchzxtug!”hejhzuphoenglngb,huphej
pojmmjqhx ohngoxhoejhasxpochunshznoehPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Zjyy,hqnqg’ohNhojyyhcx ?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hpjjngbhoeuohYjrng
euqhijjghfxtmyjojychzxghxrjsk

“Cjp,”hpunqhYjrnghqsjutnyc,h“ughjvosuxsqnguschzxtug!hNo’phgxohejs
fyjrjsgjpp,hi ohpejheuphp fehzxgqjsa yhqjmoehxahajjyngbkhN’thuza yyc
pxsschaxshejs!”

“Gxz,hmyjupjhBxq,hjrjscoengbhznyyhpxxghijhpjooyjqkhZjyy,hzjyy,hqxg’ohij
eusqhxghmjxmyjhngha o sj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hxmjgngbhoej
fussnubjhqxxskh“Bxxq-icj;hzjhqxg’ohbxhoejhputjhzuck”

PonyyhoenglngbhxahUggu,hxahjrjscoengb,hjrjghoejhpntmyjpohmesupjhng
oejnshfxgrjspuonxghznoehejs,hugqhsjfuyyngbhoejhtng ojpohfeugbjphnghejs
jvmsjppnxg,hjgojsngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhngoxhejshmxpnonxg,hugqhajjyngb
pctmuoechaxshejs,hYjrnghsjufejqhextjk



UohextjhLx dtuhoxyqhYjrnghoeuohLuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrguhzuphw nojhzjyy,
ugqhoeuohejshpnpojspheuqhgxohyxgbhijjghbxgj,hugqhejheugqjqhenthozx
yjoojspkhYjrnghsjuqhoejthuohxgfjhnghoejheuyy,hoeuohejhtnbeohgxo
xrjsyxxlhoejthyuojskhXgjhzuphasxthPxlxyxr,henphiunynaakhPxlxyxrhzsxoj
oeuohoejhfxsghfx yqhgxohijhpxyq,hoeuohnohzuphajofengbhxgychanrjhugqhu
euyahsx iyjp,hugqhoeuohtxsjhoeughoeuohfx yqhgxohijhbxohaxshnokhOej
xoejshyjoojshzuphasxthenphpnpojskhPejhpfxyqjqhenthaxshejshi pngjpp
ijngbhponyyh gpjooyjqk

“Zjyy,hzjht pohpjyyhnohuohanrjhugqhuheuyahnahzjhfug’ohbjohtxsj,”hYjrng
qjfnqjqhoejhanspohw jponxg,hzenfeheuqhuyzucphijaxsjhpjjtjqhp fehu
zjnbeochxgj,hznoehjvosuxsqnguschaufnynochxghoejhpmxokh“No’p
jvosuxsqnguschexzhuyyhxgj’phontjhnphouljgh mhejsj,”hejhoex beo,
fxgpnqjsngbhoejhpjfxgqhyjoojskhEjhajyohentpjyahoxhiyutjhaxshgxoheurngb
bxohqxgjhzeuohenphpnpojsheuqhupljqhenthoxhqxhaxshejskh“Oxquc,hubung,
N’rjhgxohijjghoxhoejhfx so,hi ohoxquchN’rjhfjsoungychgxoheuqhontjk”hUgq
sjpxyrngbhoeuohejhzx yqhgxohaunyhoxhqxhnohgjvohquc,hejhzjgoh mhoxhenp
znajkhUphejhzjgohng,hYjrnghsumnqychsughoesx behtjgouyychoejhquchejheuq
pmjgokhUyyhoejhjrjgophxahoejhquchzjsjhfxgrjspuonxgp,hfxgrjspuonxgphej
euqhejusqhugqhouljghmusohngkhUyyhoejhfxgrjspuonxgphzjsjh mxghp i.jfop
zenfe,hnahejheuqhijjghuyxgjhuohextj,hejhzx yqhgjrjsheurjhouljgh m,hi o
ejsjhoejchzjsjhrjschngojsjpongbkhUgqhuyyhoejpjhfxgrjspuonxgphzjsjhsnbeo
jgx be,hxgychnghozxhmyufjphoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhgxohw nojhsnbeokhXgjhzup
zeuohejheuqhpunqhuix ohoejhfusm,hoejhxoejshzuphpxtjoengbhgxoh“w nojhoej
oengb”hnghoejhojgqjshpctmuoechejhzuphajjyngbhaxshUgguk

Yjrnghax gqhenphznajhyxz-pmnsnojqhugqhq yykhOejhqnggjshxahoejhoesjj
pnpojspheuqhbxgjhxaahrjschzjyy,hi ohoejghoejcheuqhzunojqhugqhzunojqhaxs
ent,huyyhxahoejtheuqhajyohq yy,hoejhpnpojspheuqhqjmusojq,hugqhpejheuq
ijjghyjaohuyxgjk

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuoheurjhcx hijjghqxngb?”hpejhupljqhent,hyxxlngbhposunbeo
ngoxhenphjcjp,hzenfehpexgjhznoehsuoejshuhp pmnfnx phisnbeogjppkhI o
oeuohpejhtnbeohgxohmsjrjgohenphojyyngbhejshjrjscoengb,hpejhfxgfjuyjq
ejshfyxpjhpfs ongchxahent,hugqhznoehughummsxrngbhptnyjhynpojgjqhoxhenp
uffx gohxahexzhejheuqhpmjgohoejhjrjgngbk

“Zjyy,hN’thrjschbyuqhNhtjohRsxgplckhNhajyohw nojhuohjupjhugqhguo suy
znoehentkhCx h gqjspougq,hNhpeuyyhoschgxohoxhpjjhent,hi ohN’thbyuqhoeuo
oenphuzlzusqgjpphnphuyyhxrjs,”hejhpunq,hugqhsjtjtijsngbhoeuohichzuchxa
oscngbhgxohoxhpjjhent,hejheuqhnttjqnuojychbxgjhoxhfuyyhxghUggu,hej
iy pejqkh“Zjhouylhuix ohoejhmjupugophqsnglngb;hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzenfe
qsnglphtxpo,hoejhmjupugoschxshx shxzghfyupp;hoejhmjupugophqxhxg
exynqucp,hi okkkk”

I ohLnoochoxxlhgxohoejhpynbeojpohngojsjpohnghqnpf ppngbhoejhqsnglngb
euinophxahoejhmjupugopkhPejhpuzhoeuohejhiy pejq,hugqhpejhzugojqhoxhlgxz
zeck

“Zjyy,hugqhoejghzejsjhqnqhcx hbx?”

“Ponruh sbjqhtjhuza yychoxhbxhugqhpjjhUgguhUsluqcjrguk”

Ugqhuphejhpunqhoenp,hYjrnghiy pejqhjrjghtxsj,hugqhenphqx iophuphox
zejoejshejheuqhqxgjhsnbeohnghbxngbhoxhpjjhUgguhzjsjhpjooyjqhxgfjhaxs
uyykhEjhlgjzhgxzhoeuohejhx beohgxohoxheurjhqxgjhpxk

Lnooc’phjcjphxmjgjqhnghuhf snx phzuchugqhbyjutjqhuohUggu’phgutj,hi o
fxgosxyyngbhejspjyahznoehughjaaxso,hpejhfxgfjuyjqhejshjtxonxghugq
qjfjnrjqhentk

“Xe!”hzuphuyyhpejhpunqk

“N’thp sjhcx hzxg’ohijhugbschuohtchbxngbkhPonruhijbbjqhtjhox,hugqhQxyyc
znpejqhno,”hYjrnghzjgohxgk

“Xe,hgx!”hpejhpunq,hi ohejhpuzhnghejshjcjphuhfxgposungohoeuohixqjqhent
gxhbxxqk

“Pejhnphuhrjschpzjjo,hrjsc,hrjsch geummc,hbxxqhzxtug,”hejhpunq,hojyyngb
ejshuix ohUggu,hejshxff muonxgp,hugqhzeuohpejheuqhoxyqhenthoxhpuchox
ejsk

“Cjp,hxahfx spj,hpejhnphrjscht fehoxhijhmnonjq,”hpunqhLnooc,hzejghej
euqhangnpejqkh“Zexthzuphcx shyjoojshasxt?”

Ejhoxyqhejs,hugqhijynjrngbhnghejshfuythoxgj,hejhzjgohoxhfeugbjhenp
fxuok

Fxtngbhiufl,hejhax gqhLnoochnghoejhputjhjupchfeunskhZejghejhzjgoh mhox
ejs,hpejhbyugfjqhuohenthugqhisxljhngoxhpxipk

“Zeuo?hzeuohnphno?”hejhupljq,hlgxzngbhijaxsjeugqhzeuok

“Cx ’sjhnghyxrjhznoehoeuoheuoja yhzxtug;hpejheuphijznofejqhcx !hNhpuz
nohnghcx shjcjpkhCjp,hcjp!hZeuohfughnohuyyhyjuqhox?hCx hzjsjhqsnglngb
uohoejhfy i,hqsnglngbhugqhbutiyngb,hugqhoejghcx hzjgohkkkhoxhejshxahuyy
mjxmyj!hGx,hzjht pohbxhuzuckkkkhNhpeuyyhbxhuzuchoxtxssxzk”

NohzuphuhyxgbhzenyjhijaxsjhYjrnghfx yqhpxxoejhenphznajkhUohyupohej
p ffjjqjqhnghfuytngbhejs,hxgychichfxgajppngbhoeuohuhajjyngbhxahmnoc,hng
fxg. gfonxghznoehoejhzngjhejheuqhqs gl,heuqhijjghoxxht fehaxshent,hoeuo
ejheuqhp ff tijqhoxhUggu’phusoa yhngay jgfj,hugqhoeuohejhzx yqhurxnq
ejskhXgjhoengbhejhqnqhznoehtxsjhpngfjsnochfxgajpphoxhzuphoeuohynrngbhpx
yxgbhnghTxpfxz,huhynajhxahgxoengbhi ohfxgrjspuonxg,hjuongbhugq
qsnglngb,hejhzuphqjbjgjsuongbkhOejchouyljqhonyyhoesjjhx’fyxflhnghoej
txsgngbkhXgychuohoesjjhx’fyxflhzjsjhoejchp aanfnjgoychsjfxgfnyjqhoxhij
uiyjhoxhbxhoxhpyjjmk


Feumojsh12

Uaojshoulngbhyjurjhxahejshb jpop,hUgguhqnqhgxohpnohqxzg,hi ohijbug
zuylngbh mhugqhqxzghoejhsxxtkhPejheuqh gfxgpfnx pychoejhzexyjhjrjgngb
qxgjhejsh otxpohoxhusx pjhnghYjrnghuhajjyngbhxahyxrj—uphxahyuojhpejheuq
auyyjghngoxhqxngbhznoehuyyhcx gbhtjg—ugqhpejhlgjzhpejheuqhuooungjqhejs
unt,huphaushuphzuphmxppniyjhnghxgjhjrjgngb,hznoehuhtussnjqhugq
fxgpfnjgonx phtugkhPejhynljqhenthngqjjqhjvosjtjyc,hugq,hnghpmnojhxahoej
posnlngbhqnaajsjgfj,hasxthoejhtupf yngjhmxngohxahrnjz,hijozjjghRsxgplc
ugqhYjrng,huphuhzxtughpejhpuzhpxtjoengbhoejcheuqhnghfxttxg,hzenfeheuq
tuqjhLnoochuiyjhoxhyxrjhixoekhCjohuphpxxghuphejhzuphx ohxahoejhsxxt,
pejhfjupjqhoxhoenglhxahentk

Xgjhoex beo,hugqhxgjhxgyc,hm sp jqhejshnghqnaajsjgohaxstp,hugqhsja pjq
oxhijhpeuljghxaakh“NahNheurjhpxht fehjaajfohxghxoejsp,hxghoenphtug,hzex
yxrjphenphextjhugqhenphznaj,hzechnphnoh_ej_hnphpxhfxyqhoxhtj?kkkhgxo
fxyqhjvufoyc,hejhyxrjphtj,hNhlgxzhoeuo!hI ohpxtjoengbhgjzhnphqsuzngbh p
umusohgxzkhZechzupg’ohejhejsjhuyyhoejhjrjgngb?hEjhoxyqhPonruhoxhpuchej
fx yqhgxohyjurjhCuperng,hugqht pohzuofehxrjshenphmyuckhNphCupernghu
fenyq?hI ohp mmxpngbhno’phos jkhEjhgjrjshojyyphuhynjkhI ohoejsj’p
pxtjoengbhjypjhnghnohnahno’phos jkhEjhnphbyuqhxahughxmmxso gnochxa
pexzngbhtjhoeuohejheuphxoejshq onjp;hNhlgxzhoeuo,hNhp itnohoxhoeuokhI o
zechmsxrjhoeuohoxhtj?hEjhzugophoxhpexzhtjhoeuohenphyxrjhaxshtjhnphgxo
oxhngojsajsjhznoehenphasjjqxtkhI ohNhgjjqhgxhmsxxap,hNhgjjqhyxrjkhEj
x beohoxh gqjspougqhuyyhoejhinoojsgjpphxahoenphynajhaxshtjhejsjhng
TxpfxzkhNphoenphynaj?hNhuthgxohynrngb,hi ohzunongbhaxshughjrjgo,hzenfe
nphfxgong uyychm ohxaahugqhm ohxaakhGxhugpzjshubung!hUgqhPonruhpucphej
fuggxohbxhoxhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekhUgqhNhfug’ohzsnojhubungkhNhfughqx
gxoengb,hfughijbnghgxoengb,hfughuyojshgxoengb;hNhexyqhtcpjyahng,hN
zuno,hngrjgongbhut pjtjgophaxshtcpjya—oejhJgbynpehautnyc,hzsnongb,
sjuqngb—i ohno’phuyyhgxoengbhi ohuhpeut,hno’phuyyhoejhputjhuphtxsmengjk
Ejhx beohoxhajjyhaxshtj,”hpejhpunq,hajjyngbhojusphxahpjya-mnochfxtngb
ngoxhejshjcjpk

PejhejusqhRsxgplc’phuis mohsngbhugqhe ssnjqychqsnjqhejshojusp—gxohxgyc
qsnjqhejshojusp,hi ohpuohqxzghichuhyutmhugqhxmjgjqhuhixxl,huaajfongb
fxtmxp sjkhPejhzugojqhoxhpexzhenthoeuohpejhzuphqnpmyjupjqhoeuohejheuq
gxohfxtjhextjhuphejheuqhmsxtnpjq—qnpmyjupjqhxgyc,hugqhgxohxghugc
uffx gohoxhyjohenthpjjhejshqnposjpp,hugqhyjupohxahuyy,hejshpjya-mnock
Pejhtnbeohmnochejspjya,hi ohejht pohgxohmnochejskhPejhqnqhgxohzugo
posnaj,hpejhiyutjqhenthaxshzugongbhoxhw ussjy,hi oh gfxgpfnx pychm o
ejspjyahngoxhughuoono qjhxahugoubxgnptk

“Zjyy,hcx ’rjhgxohijjghq yy?”hejhpunq,hjubjsychugqhbxxq-e txsjqyc,
bxngbh mhoxhejskh“Zeuohuhojssniyjhmuppnxghnohnp—butiyngb!”

“Gx,hN’rjhgxohijjghq yy;hN’rjhyjusgjqhyxgbhubxhgxohoxhijhq yykhPonru
euphijjghejsjhugqhYjrngk”

“Cjp,hoejchtjugohoxhfxtjhugqhpjjhcx khZjyy,hexzhqnqhcx hynljhYjrng?”hej
punq,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhejsk

“Rjscht fekhOejcheurjhgxohyxgbhijjghbxgjkhZeuohzuphCupernghqxngb?”

“Ejhzuphznggngb—pjrjgojjghoex pugqkhNhbxohenthuzuckhEjheuqhsjuyyc
pousojqhextj,hi ohejhzjgohiuflhubung,hugqhgxzhej’phyxpngbk”

“Oejghzeuohqnqhcx hpouchaxs?”hpejhupljq,hp qqjgychynaongbhejshjcjphox
entkhOejhjvmsjppnxghxahejshaufjhzuphfxyqhugqh gbsufnx pkh“Cx hoxyq
Ponruhcx hzjsjhpoucngbhxghoxhbjohCupernghuzuckhUgqhcx heurjhyjaohent
oejsjk”

Oejhputjhjvmsjppnxghxahfxyqhsjuqngjpphaxshoejhfxgaynfohummjusjqhxghenp
aufjhoxxk

“Nghoejhanspohmyufj,hNhqnqhgxohuplhenthoxhbnrjhcx hugchtjppubj;hugq
pjfxgqyc,hNhgjrjshojyyhynjpkhI ohzeuo’phoejhfenjahmxngo,hNhzugojqhox
pouc,hugqhNhpoucjq,”hejhpunq,hasxzgngbkh“Uggu,hzeuohnphnohaxs,hzechznyy
cx ?”hejhpunqhuaojshuhtxtjgo’phpnyjgfj,hijgqngbhxrjshoxzusqphejs,hugq
ejhxmjgjqhenpheugq,hexmngbhpejhzx yqhyuchejsphnghnok

PejhzuphbyuqhxahoenphummjuyhaxshojgqjsgjppkhI ohpxtjhposugbjhaxsfjhxa
jrnyhzx yqhgxohyjohejshbnrjhejspjyah mhoxhejshajjyngbp,huphoex behoej
s yjphxahzusausjhzx yqhgxohmjstnohejshoxhp ssjgqjsk

“Xahfx spjhcx hzugojqhoxhpouc,hugqhcx hpoucjqkhCx hqxhjrjscoengbhcx 
zugohoxkhI ohzeuohqxhcx hojyyhtjhoeuohaxs?hZnoehzeuohxi.jfo?”hpejhpunq,
bjoongbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhjvfnojqkh“Qxjphugcxgjhfxgojpohcx shsnbeop?hI o
cx hzugohoxhijhsnbeo,hugqhcx ’sjhzjyfxtjhoxhijhsnbeok”

Enpheugqhfyxpjq,hejho sgjqhuzuc,hugqhenphaufjhzxsjhuhponyyhtxsj
xiponguojhjvmsjppnxgk

“Axshcx hno’phuhtuoojshxahxipongufc,”hpejhpunq,hzuofengbhenthngojgoyc
ugqhp qqjgychangqngbhoejhsnbeohzxsqhaxshoeuohjvmsjppnxghoeuohnssnouojq
ejs,h“pntmychxipongufckhAxshcx hno’phuhw jponxghxahzejoejshcx hljjmhoej
 mmjsheugqhxahtj,hzenyjhaxshtjkkkk”hUbunghpejhajyohpxsschaxshejspjya,
ugqhpejhuytxpohi spohngoxhojuspkh“Nahcx hlgjzhzeuohnohnphaxshtj!hZejghN
ajjyhuphNhqxhgxzhoeuohcx husjhexponyj,hcjp,hexponyjhoxhtj,hnahcx hlgjz
zeuohoenphtjugphaxshtj!hNahcx hlgjzhexzhNhajjyhxghoejhisnglhxahfuyutnoc
uohoenphngpougo,hexzhuasunqhNhuthxahtcpjya!”hUgqhpejho sgjqhuzuc,
enqngbhejshpxipk

“I ohzeuohusjhcx houylngbhuix o?”hejhpunq,hexssnanjqhuohejshjvmsjppnxg
xahqjpmuns,hugqhubunghijgqngbhxrjshejs,hejhoxxlhejsheugqhugqhlnppjqhnok
“Zeuohnphnohaxs?hQxhNhpjjlhut pjtjgophx opnqjhx shextj?hQxg’ohNhurxnq
oejhpxfnjochxahzxtjg?”

“Zjyy,hcjp!hNahoeuohzjsjhuyy!”hpejhpunqk

“Fxtj,hojyyhtjhzeuohNhx beohoxhqxhoxhbnrjhcx hmjufjhxahtngq?hNhuthsjuqc
oxhqxhugcoengbhoxhtuljhcx heummc,”hejhpunq,hox fejqhichejshjvmsjppnxg
xahqjpmuns;h“zeuohzx yqg’ohNhqxhoxhpurjhcx hasxthqnposjpphxahugchpxso,
uphgxz,hUggu!”hejhpunqk

“No’phgxoengb,hgxoengb!”hpejhpunqkh“Nhqxg’ohlgxzhtcpjyahzejoejshno’p
oejhpxynouschynaj,htchgjsrjpkkkkhFxtj,hqxg’ohyjoh phouylhxahnokhZeuo
uix ohoejhsufj?hCx heurjg’ohoxyqhtj!”hpejhngw nsjq,hoscngbhoxhfxgfjuy
ejshosn tmehuohoejhrnfoxsc,hzenfeheuqhugczuchijjghxghejshpnqjk

Ejhupljqhaxshp mmjs,hugqhijbughojyyngbhejshuix ohoejhsufjp;hi ohnghenp
oxgj,hnghenphjcjp,hzenfehijfutjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhfxyq,hpejhpuzhoeuohejhqnq
gxohaxsbnrjhejshaxshejshrnfoxsc,hoeuohoejhajjyngbhxahxipongufchznoe
zenfehpejheuqhijjghpos bbyngbheuqhuppjsojqhnopjyahubunghnghentkhEjhzup
fxyqjshoxhejshoeughijaxsj,huphoex behejhzjsjhsjbsjoongbhenphp ssjgqjsk
Ugqhpej,hsjtjtijsngbhoejhzxsqphoeuoheuqhbnrjghejshoejhrnfoxsc,h“exzhN
ajjyhxghoejhisnglhxahfuyutnoc,hexzhuasunqhNhuthxahtcpjya,”hpuzhoeuo
oenphzjumxghzuphuhqugbjsx phxgj,hugqhoeuohnohfx yqhgxohijh pjqhuhpjfxgq
ontjkhUgqhpejhajyohoeuohijpnqjhoejhyxrjhoeuohix gqhoejthoxbjoejshoejsj
euqhbsxzgh mhijozjjghoejthpxtjhjrnyhpmnsnohxahposnaj,hzenfehpejhfx yq
gxohjvxsfnpjhasxthenp,hugqhponyyhyjpphasxthejshxzghejusok


Feumojsh13

Oejsjhusjhgxhfxgqnonxgphoxhzenfehuhtughfuggxohijfxtjh pjq,hjpmjfnuyyc
nahejhpjjphoeuohuyyhusx gqhenthusjhynrngbhnghoejhputjhzuckhYjrnghfx yq
gxoheurjhijynjrjqhoesjjhtxgoephijaxsjhoeuohejhfx yqheurjhbxgjhw njoyc
oxhpyjjmhnghoejhfxgqnonxghnghzenfehejhzuphoeuohquc,hoeuohyjuqngbhug
untyjpp,hnssuonxguyhynaj,hynrngbhoxxhijcxgqhenphtjugp,huaojshqsnglngb
oxhjvfjpph(ejhfx yqhgxohfuyyhzeuoheummjgjqhuohoejhfy ihugcoengbhjypj),
axstngbhngummsxmsnuojychasnjgqychsjyuonxgphznoehuhtughznoehzexthenp
znajheuqhxgfjhijjghnghyxrj,hugqhuhponyyhtxsjhngummsxmsnuojhfuyyh mxghu
zxtughzexhfx yqhxgychijhfuyyjqhuhyxpohzxtug,huaojshijngbhaupfnguojqhic
oeuohzxtughugqhfu pngbhenphznajhqnposjpp—ejhfx yqhponyyhbxhw njoychox
pyjjmkhI oh gqjshoejhngay jgfjhxahauonb j,huhpyjjmyjpphgnbeo,hugqhoej
zngjhejheuqhqs gl,henphpyjjmhzuphpx gqhugqh gosx iyjqk

Uohanrjhx’fyxflhoejhfsjulhxahuhqxxshxmjgngbhzuljqhentkhEjh. tmjqh mhugq
yxxljqhsx gqkhLnoochzuphgxohnghijqhijpnqjhentkhI ohoejsjhzuphuhynbeo
txrngbhijengqhoejhpfsjjg,hugqhejhejusqhejshpojmpk

“Zeuohnphno?kkkhzeuohnphno?”hejhpunq,heuya-upyjjmkh“Lnooc!hZeuohnphno?”

“Gxoengb,”hpejhpunq,hfxtngbhasxthijengqhoejhpfsjjghznoehuhfugqyjhnghejs
eugqkh“Nhajyoh gzjyy,”hpejhpunq,hptnyngbhuhmusonf yusychpzjjohugq
tjugngbhptnyjk

“Zeuo?heuphnohijb g?”hejhpunqhnghojssxskh“Zjhx beohoxhpjgqkkkk”hugq
e ssnjqychejhsjufejqhuaojshenphfyxoejpk

“Gx,hgx,”hpejhpunq,hptnyngbhugqhexyqngbhenpheugqkh“No’php sjhoxhij
gxoengbkhNhzuphsuoejsh gzjyy,hxgychuhynooyjkhNo’phuyyhxrjshgxzk”

Ugqhbjoongbhngoxhijq,hpejhiyjzhx ohoejhfugqyj,hyuchqxzghugqhzuphponyyk
Oex behejhoex beohejshponyygjpphp pmnfnx p,huphoex behpejhzjsjhexyqngb
ejshisjuoe,hugqhponyyhtxsjhp pmnfnx phoejhjvmsjppnxghxahmjf ynus
ojgqjsgjpphugqhjvfnojtjgohznoehzenfe,huphpejhfutjhasxthijengqhoej
pfsjjg,hpejhpunqh“gxoengb,”hejhzuphpxhpyjjmchoeuohejhajyyhupyjjmhuo
xgfjkhXgychyuojshejhsjtjtijsjqhoejhponyygjpphxahejshisjuoengb,hugq
 gqjspoxxqhuyyhoeuoht poheurjhijjghmuppngbhnghejshpzjjo,hmsjfnx phejuso
zenyjhpejhyuchijpnqjhent,hgxohponssngb,hnghugonfnmuonxghxahoejhbsjuojpo
jrjgohnghuhzxtug’phynajkhUohpjrjghx’fyxflhejhzuphzuljqhichoejhox fehxa
ejsheugqhxghenphpex yqjs,hugqhuhbjgoyjhzenpmjskhPejhpjjtjqhpos bbyngb
ijozjjghsjbsjohuohzulngbhent,hugqhoejhqjpnsjhoxhouylhoxhentk

“Lxpocu,hqxg’ohijhasnbeojgjqkhNo’phuyyhsnbeokhI ohNhaugfckkkkhZjhx beo
oxhpjgqhaxshYndurjouhMjosxrguk”

OejhfugqyjhzuphynbeojqhubungkhPejhzuphpnoongbh mhnghijq,hexyqngbhpxtj
lgnoongb,hzenfehpejheuqhijjghi pch mxghq sngbhoejhyupohajzhqucpk

“Myjupj,hqxg’ohijhasnbeojgjq,hno’phuyyhsnbeokhN’thgxohuhinohuasunq,”
pejhpunq,hpjjngbhenphpfusjqhaufj,hugqhpejhmsjppjqhenpheugqhoxhejshixpxt
ugqhoejghoxhejshynmpk

Ejhe ssnjqych. tmjqh m,heusqychuzulj,hugqhljmohenphjcjphanvjqhxghejs,
uphejhm ohxghenphqsjppngbhbxzg;hoejghejhpoxmmjq,hponyyhyxxlngbhuohejsk
Ejheuqhoxhbx,hi ohejhfx yqhgxohojushentpjyahasxthejshjcjpkhEjhoex beo
ejhyxrjqhejshaufj,hlgjzhejshjvmsjppnxg,hejshjcjp,hi ohgjrjsheuqhejhpjjg
nohynljhoenpkhExzheuoja yhugqhexssniyjhejhpjjtjqhoxhentpjya,hoenglngb
xahoejhqnposjpphejheuqhfu pjqhejshcjpojsquckhEjshay pejqhaufj,hasngbjq
znoehpxaohf syngbheunsh gqjshejshgnbeohfum,hzuphsuqnugohznoeh.xchugq
fx subjk

Oex behoejsjhzuphpxhynooyjhoeuohzuphfxtmyjvhxshusonanfnuyhnghLnooc’p
feusufojshnghbjgjsuy,hYjrnghzuphpos flhichzeuohzuphsjrjuyjqhgxz,hzejg
p qqjgychuyyhqnpb npjphzjsjhoesxzghxaahugqhoejhrjschljsgjyhxahejshpx y
pexgjhnghejshjcjpkhUgqhnghoenphpntmynfnochugqhguljqgjpphxahejshpx y,
pej,hoejhrjschzxtughejhyxrjqhnghejs,hzuphtxsjhtugnajpohoeughjrjskhPej
yxxljqhuohent,hptnyngb;hi ohuyyhuohxgfjhejshisxzphoznofejq,hpejhoesjz
 mhejshejuq,hugqhbxngbhw nflych mhoxhent,hfy ofejqhenpheugqhugqhmsjppjq
fyxpjh mhoxhent,hisjuoengbhejshexohisjuoeh mxghentkhPejhzuphnghmunghugq
zup,huphnohzjsj,hfxtmyungngbhoxhenthxahejshp aajsngbkhUgqhaxshoejhanspo
tng oj,hasxtheuino,hnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejhzuphoxhiyutjkhI ohnghejs
jcjphoejsjhzuphuhojgqjsgjpphoeuohoxyqhenthoeuohpejhzuphaushasxt
sjmsxufengbhent,hoeuohpejhyxrjqhenthaxshejshp aajsngbpkh“NahgxohN,hzex
nphoxhiyutjhaxshno?”hejhoex beoh gfxgpfnx pyc,hpjjlngbhpxtjxgj
sjpmxgpniyjhaxshoenphp aajsngbhaxshenthoxhm gnpe;hi ohoejsjhzuphgxhxgj
sjpmxgpniyjkhPejhzuphp aajsngb,hfxtmyungngb,hugqhosn tmengbhnghejs
p aajsngbp,hugqhsj.xnfngbhnghoejt,hugqhyxrngbhoejtkhEjhpuzhoeuo
pxtjoengbhp iyntjhzuphijngbhuffxtmynpejqhnghejshpx y,hi ohzeuo?hEj
fx yqhgxohtuljhnohx okhNohzuphijcxgqhenph gqjspougqngbk

“NheurjhpjgohoxhtuttukhCx hbxhw nflychoxhajofehYndurjouhMjosxrguhkkk
Lxpocu!kkkhGxoengb,hno’phxrjsk”

Pejhtxrjqhuzuchasxthenthugqhsugbhoejhijyyk

“Zjyy,hbxhgxz;hMupeu’phfxtngbkhNhuthuyyhsnbeok”

UgqhYjrnghpuzhznoehupoxgnpetjgohoeuohpejheuqhouljgh mhoejhlgnoongbhpej
euqhisx beohnghnghoejhgnbeohugqhijb ghzxslngbhuohnohubungk

UphYjrnghzuphbxngbhx ohxahxgjhqxxs,hejhejusqhoejhtunq-pjsrugohfxtjhng
uohoejhxoejskhEjhpoxxqhuohoejhqxxshugqhejusqhLnoochbnrngbhjvufo
qnsjfonxgphoxhoejhtunq,hugqhijbnggngbhoxhejymhejshtxrjhoejhijqpojuqk

Ejhqsjppjq,hugqhzenyjhoejchzjsjhm oongbhnghenphexspjp,huphuhensjq
pyjqbjhzuphgxohoxhijhpjjghcjo,hejhsughubungh mhoxhoejhijqsxxt,hgxohxg
onmoxj,hnohpjjtjqhoxhent,hi ohxghzngbpkhOzxhtunq-pjsrugophzjsj
fusja yychtxrngbhpxtjoengbhnghoejhijqsxxtk

Lnoochzuphzuylngbhuix ohlgnoongbhsumnqychugqhbnrngbhqnsjfonxgpk

“N’thbxngbhaxshoejhqxfoxskhOejcheurjhpjgohaxshYndurjouhMjosxrgu,hi o
N’yyhbxhxghoejsjhoxxkhNpg’ohoejsjhugcoengbhzugojq?hCjp,hpeuyyhNhbxhox
Qxyyc’p?”

Pejhyxxljqhuohent,hxirnx pychgxohejusngbhzeuohejhzuphpucngbk

“Cjp,hcjpkhQxhbx,”hpejhpunqhw nflyc,hasxzgngbhugqhzurngbhejsheugqhox
entk

Ejheuqh. pohbxgjhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejghp qqjgychuhmyungonrjhtxug
px gqjqhasxthoejhijqsxxt,hptxoejsjqhngpougoyckhEjhpoxxqhponyy,hugqhaxs
uhyxgbhzenyjhejhfx yqhgxoh gqjspougqk

“Cjp,hoeuohnphpej,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,hugqhfy ofengbhuohenphejuqhej
sughqxzgpounspk

“Yxsqheurjhtjsfchxgh p!hmusqxgh p!hunqh p!”hejhsjmjuojqhoejhzxsqphoeuo
axshpxtjhsjupxghfutjhp qqjgychoxhenphynmpkhUgqhej,hugh gijynjrjs,
sjmjuojqhoejpjhzxsqphgxohznoehenphynmphxgyckhUohoeuohngpougohejhlgjz
oeuohuyyhenphqx iop,hjrjghoejhntmxppninynochxahijynjrngbhznoehenp
sjupxg,hxahzenfehejhzuphuzusjhnghentpjya,hqnqhgxohnghoejhyjupohengqjs
enpho sgngbhoxhBxqkhUyyhxahoeuohgxzhayxuojqhx ohxahenphpx yhynljhq pok
Oxhzexthzuphejhoxho sghnahgxohoxhEnthnghzexpjheugqphejhajyohentpjya,
enphpx y,hugqhenphyxrj?

Oejhexspjhzuphgxohcjohsjuqc,hi ohajjyngbhuhmjf ynushfxgfjgosuonxghxa
enphmecpnfuyhaxsfjphugqhenphngojyyjfohxghzeuohejheuqhoxhqx,hejhpousojq
xaahxghaxxohznoex ohzunongbhaxshoejhexspj,hugqhoxyqhLx dtuhoxhxrjsoulj
entk

Uohoejhfxsgjshejhtjohuhgnbeohfuitughqsnrngbhe ssnjqyckhNghoejhynooyj
pyjqbj,hzsummjqhnghuhrjyrjohfyxul,hpuohYndurjouhMjosxrguhznoehu
ljsfenjahsx gqhejshejuqkh“OeuglhBxq!hoeuglhBxq!”hejhpunq,hxrjs.xcjqhox
sjfxbgndjhejshynooyjhaunshaufjhzenfehzxsjhuhmjf ynusychpjsnx p,hjrjg
pojsghjvmsjppnxgkhOjyyngbhoejhqsnrjshgxohoxhpoxm,hejhsughuyxgbhijpnqj
ejsk

“Axshozxhex sp,hoejg?hGxohtxsj?”hpejhngw nsjqkh“Cx hpex yqhyjohMcxos
Qtnosnjrnofehlgxz,hi ohqxg’ohe sschentkhUgqhbjohpxtjhxmn thuohoej
fejtnpo’pk”

“Pxhcx hoenglhoeuohnohtuchbxhxghzjyy?hYxsqheurjhtjsfchxgh phugqhejym
 p!”hYjrnghpunq,hpjjngbhenphxzghexspjhqsnrngbhx ohxahoejhbuojkh. tmngb
ngoxhoejhpyjqbjhijpnqjhLx dtu,hejhoxyqhenthoxhqsnrjhoxhoejhqxfoxs’pk


Feumojsh14

Oejhqxfoxshzuphgxohcjoh m,hugqhoejhaxxotughpunqhoeuoh“ejheuqhijjgh m
yuoj,hugqheuqhbnrjghxsqjsphgxohoxhijhzuljq,hi ohzx yqhbjoh mhpxxgk”hOej
axxotughzuphfyjugngbhoejhyutm-fentgjcp,hugqhpjjtjqhrjschi pchuix o
oejtkhOenphfxgfjgosuonxghxahoejhaxxotugh mxghenphyutmp,hugqhenp
ngqnaajsjgfjhoxhzeuohzuphmuppngbhnghYjrng,huohanspohupox gqjqhent,hi o
nttjqnuojychxghfxgpnqjsngbhoejhw jponxghejhsjuyndjqhoeuohgxhxgjhlgjzhxs
zuphix gqhoxhlgxzhenphajjyngbp,hugqhoeuohnohzuphuyyhoejhtxsjhgjfjppusc
oxhufohfuytyc,hpjgpniyc,hugqhsjpxy ojychoxhbjohoesx behoenphzuyyhxa
ngqnaajsjgfjhugqhuoounghenphuntk

“Qxg’ohijhnghuhe sschxshyjohugcoengbhpynm,”hYjrnghpunqhoxhentpjya,
ajjyngbhuhbsjuojshugqhbsjuojshayxzhxahmecpnfuyhjgjsbchugqhuoojgonxghox
uyyhoeuohyuchijaxsjhenthoxhqxk

Eurngbhupfjsoungjqhoeuohoejhqxfoxshzuphgxohbjoongbh m,hYjrnghfxgpnqjsjq
rusnx phmyugp,hugqhqjfnqjqhxghoejhaxyyxzngbhxgj:hoeuohLx dtuhpex yqhbx
axshugxoejshqxfoxs,hzenyjhejhentpjyahpex yqhbxhoxhoejhfejtnpo’phaxs
xmn t,hugqhnahzejghejhfutjhiuflhoejhqxfoxsheuqhgxohcjohijb ghoxhbjoh m,
ejhzx yqhjnoejshichonmmngbhoejhaxxotug,hxshichaxsfj,hzuljhoejhqxfoxshuo
uyyheudusqpk

Uohoejhfejtnpo’phoejhyuglhpexmtughpjuyjqh mhuhmufljohxahmxzqjsphaxshu
fxufetughzexhpoxxqhzunongb,hugqhsja pjqhenthxmn thznoehoejhputj
fuyyx pgjpphznoehzenfehoejhqxfoxs’phaxxotugheuqhfyjugjqhenphyutm
fentgjcpkhOscngbhgxohoxhbjohay ssnjqhxshx ohxahojtmjs,hYjrnghtjgonxgjq
oejhgutjphxahoejhqxfoxshugqhtnqznaj,hugqhjvmyungngbhzeuohoejhxmn thzup
gjjqjqhaxs,hosnjqhoxhmjsp uqjhentkhOejhuppnpougohngw nsjqhnghBjstug
zejoejshejhpex yqhbnrjhno,hugqhsjfjnrngbhughuaanstuonrjhsjmychasxt
ijengqhoejhmusononxg,hejhoxxlhx ohuhixooyjhugqhuha ggjy,hqjynijsuojyc
mx sjqhoejhxmn thasxthuhinbbjshixooyjhngoxhuhynooyjhxgj,hpo flhxghu
yuijy,hpjuyjqhnoh m,hnghpmnojhxahYjrng’phsjw jpohoeuohejhzx yqhgxohqx
px,hugqhzuphuix ohoxhzsumhnoh mhoxxkhOenphzuphtxsjhoeughYjrnghfx yq
pougq;hejhoxxlhoejhixooyjhanstychx ohxahenpheugqp,hugqhsughoxhoejhinb
byupphqxxspkhOejhqxfoxshzuphgxohjrjghgxzhbjoongbh m,hugqhoejhaxxotug,
i pchgxzhnghm oongbhqxzghoejhs bp,hsja pjqhoxhzuljhentkhYjrng
qjynijsuojychoxxlhx ohuhojghsx iyjhgxoj,hugq,hfusja yhoxhpmjulhpyxzyc,
oex behyxpngbhgxhontjhxrjshoejhi pngjpp,hejheugqjqhenthoejhgxoj,hugq
jvmyungjqhoeuohMcxoshQtnosnjrnofeh(zeuohuhbsjuohugqhntmxsougohmjspxgubj
ejhpjjtjqhoxhYjrnghgxz,hoenphMcxoshQtnosnjrnofe,hzexheuqhijjghxahpx
ynooyjhfxgpjw jgfjhnghenphjcjphijaxsj!)heuqhmsxtnpjqhoxhfxtjhuohugc
ontj;hoeuohejhzx yqhfjsoungychgxohijhugbsc!hugqhoeuohejht pohoejsjaxsj
zuljhenthuohxgfjk

Oejhaxxotughubsjjq,hugqhzjgoh mpounsp,houlngbhYjrnghngoxhoejhzunongb
sxxtk

Yjrnghfx yqhejushoesx behoejhqxxshoejhqxfoxshfx bengb,htxrngbhuix o,
zupengb,hugqhpucngbhpxtjoengbkhOesjjhtng ojphmuppjq;hnohpjjtjqhoxhYjrng
oeuohtxsjhoeughughex sheuqhbxgjhickhEjhfx yqhgxohzunohugchyxgbjsk

“McxoshQtnosnjrnofe,hMcxoshQtnosnjrnofe!”hejhpunqhnghughntmyxsngbhrxnfj
uohoejhxmjghqxxskh“AxshBxq’phpulj,haxsbnrjhtj!hPjjhtjhuphcx husjkhNo’p
ijjghbxngbhxghtxsjhoeughozxhex sphuysjuqck”

“Nghuhtng oj;hnghuhtng oj!”hugpzjsjqhuhrxnfj,hugqhoxhenphutudjtjgo
Yjrnghejusqhoeuohoejhqxfoxshzuphptnyngbhuphejhpmxljk

“Axshxgjhngpougok”

“Nghuhtng ojk”

Ozxhtng ojphtxsjhmuppjqhzenyjhoejhqxfoxshzuphm oongbhxghenphixxop,hugq
ozxhtng ojphtxsjhzenyjhoejhqxfoxshm ohxghenphfxuohugqhfxtijqhenpheunsk

“McxoshQtnosnjrnofe!”hYjrnghzuphijbnggngbhubunghnghuhmyungonrjhrxnfj,
. pohuphoejhqxfoxshfutjhnghqsjppjqhugqhsjuqckh“Oejpjhmjxmyjheurjhgx
fxgpfnjgfj,”hoex beohYjrngkh“Fxtingbhenpheuns,hzenyjhzj’sjhqcngb!”

“Bxxqhtxsgngb!”hoejhqxfoxshpunqhoxhent,hpeulngbheugqp,hugq,huphnohzjsj,
ojupngbhenthznoehenphfxtmxp sjkh“Oejsj’phgxhe ssckhZjyyhgxz?”

Oscngbhoxhijhuphuff suojhuphmxppniyj,hYjrnghijbughoxhojyyhenthjrjsc
 ggjfjppuschqjounyhxahenphznaj’phfxgqnonxg,hngojss mongbhenphuffx go
sjmjuojqychznoehjgosjuonjphoeuohoejhqxfoxshzx yqhfxtjhznoehenthuohxgfjk

“Xe,hcx hgjjqg’ohijhnghugche ssckhCx hqxg’oh gqjspougq,hcx hlgxzkhN’t
fjsounghN’thgxohzugojq,hponyyhN’rjhmsxtnpjq,hugqhnahcx hynlj,hN’yy
fxtjkhI ohoejsj’phgxhe ssckhMyjupjhpnohqxzg;hzxg’ohcx heurjhpxtj
fxaajj?”

Yjrnghpousjqhuohenthznoehjcjphoeuohupljqhzejoejshejhzuphyu bengbhuo
ent;hi ohoejhqxfoxsheuqhgxhgxonxghxahtulngbha ghxahentk

“Nhlgxz,hNhlgxz,”hoejhqxfoxshpunq,hptnyngb;h“N’thuhtussnjqhtughtcpjya;
ugqhuohoejpjhtxtjgophzjhe piugqphusjhrjscht fehoxhijhmnonjqkhN’rjhu
muonjgohzexpjhe piugqhuyzucphouljphsja bjhnghoejhpouiyjphxghp fe
xffupnxgpk”

“I ohzeuohqxhcx hoengl,hMcxoshQtnosnjrnofe?hQxhcx hp mmxpjhnohtuchbx
uyyhsnbeo?”

“Jrjscoengbhmxngophoxhuhaurxsuiyjhnpp jk”

“Pxhcx ’yyhfxtjhnttjqnuojyc?”hpunqhYjrng,hyxxlngbhzsuoea yychuohoej
pjsrugohzexhzuphisngbngbhnghoejhfxaajjk

“Nghughex s’phontjk”

“Xe,haxshtjsfc’phpulj!”

“Zjyy,hyjohtjhqsnglhtchfxaajj,hugczuck”

Oejhqxfoxshpousojqh mxghenphfxaajjkhIxoehzjsjhpnyjgok

“OejhO slphusjhsjuyychbjoongbhijuojg,hoex bekhQnqhcx hsjuqhcjpojsquc’p
ojyjbsutp?”hpunqhoejhqxfoxs,ht gfengbhpxtjhsxyyk

“Gx,hNhfug’ohpougqhno!”hpunqhYjrng,h. tmngbh mkh“Pxhcx ’yyhijhznoeh p
nghuhw usojshxahughex sk”

“Ngheuyahughex sk”

“Xghcx shexgxs?”

ZejghYjrnghbxohextj,hejhqsxrjh mhuohoejhputjhontjhuphoejhmsngfjpp,hugq
oejchzjgoh mhoxhoejhijqsxxthqxxshoxbjoejskhOejhmsngfjppheuqhojusphng
ejshjcjp,hugqhejsheugqphzjsjhpeulngbkhPjjngbhYjrng,hpejhjtisufjqhent,
ugqhi spohngoxhojuspk

“Zjyy,htchqjushYndurjouhMjosxrgu?”hpejhw jsnjq,hfyupmngbhoejheugqhxa
oejhtnqznaj,hzexhfutjhx ohoxhtjjohoejthznoehuhijutngbhugqhugvnx phaufjk

“Pej’phbxngbhxghzjyy,”hpejhpunq;h“mjsp uqjhejshoxhynjhqxzgkhPejhznyyhij
jupnjshpxk”

Asxthoejhtxtjgohzejghejheuqhzuljqh mhugqh gqjspoxxqhzeuohzuphbxngbhxg,
Yjrngheuqhmsjmusjqhenphtngqhoxhijushsjpxy ojychzeuohzuphijaxsjhent,hugq
znoex ohfxgpnqjsngbhxshugonfnmuongbhugcoengb,hoxhurxnqh mpjoongbhenp
znaj,hugqhxghoejhfxgosuschoxhpxxoejhejshugqhljjmh mhejshfx subjk
Znoex ohuyyxzngbhentpjyahjrjghoxhoenglhxahzeuohzuphoxhfxtj,hxahexzhno
zx yqhjgq,h. qbngbhasxthenphngw nsnjphuphoxhoejh p uyhq suonxghxahoejpj
xsqjuyp,hYjrngheuqhnghenphntubnguonxghisufjqhentpjyahoxhijush mhugqhox
ljjmhuhonbeohsjnghxghenphajjyngbphaxshanrjhex sp,hugqhnoheuqhpjjtjqhox
enthejhfx yqhqxhoenpkhI ohzejghejhfutjhiuflhasxthoejhqxfoxs’phugqhpuz
ejshp aajsngbphubung,hejhajyyhoxhsjmjuongbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhasjw jgoyc:
“Yxsq,heurjhtjsfchxgh p,hugqhp ffxsh p!”hEjhpnbejq,hugqhay gbhenphejuq
 m,hugqhijbughoxhajjyhuasunqhejhfx yqhgxohijushno,hoeuohejhzx yqhi spo
ngoxhojusphxshs ghuzuckhP fehubxgchnohzuphoxhentkhUgqhxgychxgjhex sheuq
muppjqk

I ohuaojshoeuohex shoejsjhmuppjqhugxoejshex s,hozxhex sp,hoesjj,hoej
a yyhanrjhex sphejheuqhanvjqhuphoejha soejpohyntnohxahenphp aajsngbp,
ugqhoejhmxpnonxghzuphponyyh gfeugbjq;hugqhejhzuphponyyhijusngbhno
ijfu pjhoejsjhzuphgxoengbhoxhijhqxgjhi ohijushno;hjrjschngpougohajjyngb
oeuohejheuqhsjufejqhoejh otxpohyntnophxahenphjgq sugfj,hugqhoeuohenp
ejusohzx yqhisjulhznoehpctmuoechugqhmungk

I ohponyyhoejhtng ojphmuppjqhichugqhoejhex sp,hugqhponyyhex sphtxsj,
ugqhenphtnpjschugqhexssxshbsjzhugqhzjsjhtxsjhugqhtxsjhngojgpjk

Uyyhoejhxsqnguschfxgqnonxgphxahynaj,hznoex ohzenfehxgjhfughaxsthgx
fxgfjmonxghxahugcoengb,heuqhfjupjqhoxhjvnpohaxshYjrngkhEjhyxpohuyy
pjgpjhxahontjkhTng ojp—oexpjhtng ojphzejghpejhpjgohaxshenthugqhejhejyq
ejshtxnpoheugq,hoeuohzx yqhpw jjdjhenpheugqhznoehjvosuxsqnguschrnxyjgfj
ugqhoejghm pehnohuzuc—pjjtjqhoxhenthex sp,hugqhex sphpjjtjqhoxhent
tng ojpkhEjhzuphp smsnpjqhzejghYndurjouhMjosxrguhupljqhenthoxhynbeohu
fugqyjhijengqhuhpfsjjg,hugqhejhax gqhoeuohnohzuphanrjhx’fyxflhnghoej
uaojsgxxgkhNahejheuqhijjghoxyqhnohzuphxgychojghx’fyxflhnghoejhtxsgngb,
ejhzx yqhgxoheurjhijjghtxsjhp smsnpjqkhZejsjhejhzuphuyyhoenphontj,hej
lgjzhuphynooyjhuphoejhontjhxahugcoengbkhEjhpuzhejshpzxyyjghaufj,
pxtjontjphijznyqjsjqhugqhnghubxgc,hpxtjontjphptnyngbhugqhoscngbhox
sjupp sjhentkhEjhpuzhoejhxyqhmsngfjpphoxx,hay pejqhugqhxrjszsx beo,
znoehejshbsuchf syphnghqnpxsqjs,haxsfngbhejspjyahoxhb ymhqxzghejs
ojusp,hinongbhejshynmp;hejhpuzhQxyychoxxhugqhoejhqxfoxs,hptxlngbhauo
fnbusjoojp,hugqhYndurjouhMjosxrguhznoehuhanst,hsjpxy oj,hsjupp sngb
aufj,hugqhoejhxyqhmsngfjhzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghoejheuyyhznoehuhasxzgngb
aufjkhI ohzechoejchfutjhnghugqhzjgohx o,hzejsjhoejchzjsj,hejhqnqhgxo
lgxzkhOejhmsngfjpphzuphznoehoejhqxfoxshnghoejhijqsxxt,hoejghnghoej
po qc,hzejsjhuhouiyjhpjohaxshqnggjshp qqjgychummjusjq;hoejghpejhzuphgxo
oejsj,hi ohQxyychzupkhOejghYjrnghsjtjtijsjqhejheuqhijjghpjgohpxtjzejsjk
XgfjhejheuqhijjghpjgohoxhtxrjhuhouiyjhugqhpxaukhEjheuqhqxgjhoenp
jubjsyc,hoenglngbhnoheuqhoxhijhqxgjhaxshejshpulj,hugqhxgychyuojshxghej
ax gqhnohzuphenphxzghijqhejheuqhijjghbjoongbhsjuqckhOejghejheuqhijjg
pjgohoxhoejhpo qchoxhuplhoejhqxfoxshpxtjoengbkhOejhqxfoxsheuqhugpzjsjq
ugqhoejgheuqhpunqhpxtjoengbhuix ohoejhnssjb yusnonjphnghoejht gnfnmuy
fx gfnykhOejghejheuqhijjghpjgohoxhoejhijqsxxthoxhejymhoejhxyqhmsngfjpp
oxhtxrjhoejhexychmnfo sjhnghnophpnyrjshugqhbxyqhpjoongb,hugqhznoehoej
msngfjpp’phxyqhzunongbhtunqhejheuqhfyutijsjqhxghuhpejyahoxhsjufehnohugq
euqhisxljghoejhynooyjhyutm,hugqhoejhxyqhpjsrugoheuqhosnjqhoxhsjupp sj
enthuix ohoejhyutmhugqhuix ohenphznaj,hugqhejhfussnjqhoejhexychmnfo sj
ugqhpjohnohuohLnooc’phejuq,hfusja yycho flngbhnohnghijengqhoejhmnyyxzk
I ohzejsj,hzejg,hugqhzechuyyhoenpheuqheummjgjq,hejhfx yqhgxohojyykhEj
qnqhgxoh gqjspougqhzechoejhxyqhmsngfjpphoxxlhenpheugq,hugqhyxxlngb
fxtmuppnxguojychuohent,hijbbjqhenthgxohoxhzxsschentpjya,hugqhQxyyc
mjsp uqjqhenthoxhjuohpxtjoengbhugqhyjqhenthx ohxahoejhsxxt,hugqhjrjg
oejhqxfoxshyxxljqhpjsnx pychugqhznoehfxttnpjsuonxghuohenthugqhxaajsjq
enthuhqsxmhxahpxtjoengbk

Uyyhejhlgjzhugqhajyohzuphoeuohzeuohzupheummjgngbhzuphzeuoheuqheummjgjq
gjusychuhcjushijaxsjhnghoejhexojyhxahoejhfx goschoxzghuohoejhqjuoeijq
xahenphisxoejshGnlxyuckhI ohoeuoheuqhijjghbsnja—oenphzuph.xckhCjohoeuo
bsnjahugqhoenph.xchzjsjhuynljhx opnqjhuyyhoejhxsqnguschfxgqnonxgphxa
ynaj;hoejchzjsjhyxxm-exyjp,huphnohzjsj,hnghoeuohxsqnguschynajhoesx be
zenfehoejsjhfutjhbyntmpjphxahpxtjoengbhp iyntjkhUgqhnghoej
fxgojtmyuonxghxahoenphp iyntjhpxtjoengbhoejhpx yhzuphjvuyojqhox
ngfxgfjnruiyjhejnbeophxahzenfehnoheuqhijaxsjheuqhgxhfxgfjmonxg,hzenyj
sjupxghyubbjqhijengq,h guiyjhoxhljjmh mhznoehnok

“Yxsq,heurjhtjsfchxgh p,hugqhp ffxsh p!”hejhsjmjuojqhoxhentpjya
ngfjppugoyc,hajjyngb,hnghpmnojhxahenphyxgbhugq,huphnohpjjtjq,hfxtmyjoj
uynjguonxghasxthsjynbnxg,hoeuohejho sgjqhoxhBxqh. pohuphos poa yychugq
pntmychuphejheuqhnghenphfenyqexxqhugqhanspohcx oek

Uyyhoenphontjhejheuqhozxhqnpongfohpmnsno uyhfxgqnonxgpkhXgjhzuphuzuc
asxthejs,hznoehoejhqxfoxs,hzexhljmohptxlngbhxgjhauohfnbusjoojhuaojs
ugxoejshugqhjvongb npengbhoejthxghoejhjqbjhxahuha yyhupeosuc,hznoe
Qxyyc,hugqhznoehoejhxyqhmsngfj,hzejsjhoejsjhzuphouylhuix ohqnggjs,
uix ohmxynonfp,huix ohTuscuhMjosxrgu’phnyygjpp,hugqhzejsjhYjrng
p qqjgychaxsbxohaxshuhtng ojhzeuohzupheummjgngb,hugqhajyohuphoex behej
euqhzuljqh mhasxthpyjjm;hoejhxoejshzuphnghejshmsjpjgfj,huohejshmnyyxz,
zejsjhenphejusohpjjtjqhisjulngbhugqhponyyhqnqhgxohisjulhasxt
pctmuoejonfhp aajsngb,hugqhejhmsucjqhoxhBxqhznoex ohfjupngbkhUgqhjrjsc
ontjhejhzuphisx beohiuflhasxthuhtxtjgohxahxiynrnxghichuhpfsjuthsjufengb
enthasxthoejhijqsxxt,hejhajyyhngoxhoejhputjhposugbjhojssxshoeuoheuq
fxtjh mxghenthoejhanspohtng ojkhJrjschontjhejhejusqhuhpesnjl,hejh. tmjq
 m,hsughoxh. ponachentpjya,hsjtjtijsjqhxghoejhzuchoeuohejhzuphgxohox
iyutj,hugqhejhyxgbjqhoxhqjajgqhejs,hoxhejymhejskhI ohuphejhyxxljqhuo
ejs,hejhpuzhubunghoeuohejymhzuphntmxppniyj,hugqhejhzuphanyyjqhznoe
ojssxshugqhmsucjq:h“Yxsq,heurjhtjsfchxgh p,hugqhejymh p!”hUgqhuphontj
zjgohxg,hixoehoejpjhfxgqnonxgphijfutjhtxsjhngojgpj;hoejhfuytjshej
ijfutjhuzuchasxthejs,hfxtmyjojychaxsbjoongbhejs,hoejhtxsjhubxgndngb
ijfutjhixoehejshp aajsngbphugqhenphajjyngbhxahejymyjppgjpphijaxsjhoejtk
Ejh. tmjqh m,hzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhs ghuzuc,hi ohsughoxhejsk

Pxtjontjp,hzejghubunghugqhubunghpejhfuyyjqh mxghent,hejhiyutjqhejs;hi o
pjjngbhejshmuonjgo,hptnyngbhaufj,hugqhejusngbhoejhzxsqp,h“Nhuthzxsscngb
cx ,”hejhoesjzhoejhiyutjhxghBxq;hi ohoenglngbhxahBxq,huohxgfjhejhajyy
oxhijpjjfengbhBxqhoxhaxsbnrjhenthugqheurjhtjsfck


Feumojsh15

EjhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejoejshnohzuphyuojhxshjusyckhOejhfugqyjpheuqhuyy
i sgjqhx okhQxyycheuqh. pohijjghnghoejhpo qchugqheuqhp bbjpojqhoxhoej
qxfoxshoeuohejhpex yqhynjhqxzgkhYjrnghpuohynpojgngbhoxhoejhqxfoxs’p
poxsnjphxahuhw uflhtjptjsndjshugqhyxxlngbhuohoejhupejphxahenp
fnbusjoojkhOejsjheuqhijjghuhmjsnxqhxahsjmxpj,hugqhejheuqhp glhngox
xiynrnxgkhEjheuqhfxtmyjojychaxsbxoojghzeuohzuphbxngbhxghgxzkhEjhejusq
oejhqxfoxs’phfeuohugqh gqjspoxxqhnokhP qqjgychoejsjhfutjhugh gjusoeyc
pesnjlkhOejhpesnjlhzuphpxhuza yhoeuohYjrnghqnqhgxohjrjgh. tmh m,hi o
exyqngbhenphisjuoe,hbudjqhnghojssnanjqhngw nschuohoejhqxfoxskhOej
qxfoxshm ohenphejuqhxghxgjhpnqj,hynpojgjq,hugqhptnyjqhummsxrngbyck
Jrjscoengbhzuphpxhjvosuxsqnguschoeuohgxoengbhfx yqhposnljhYjrnghup
posugbjkh“Nhp mmxpjhnoht pohijhpx,”hejhoex beo,hugqhponyyhpuohzejsjhej
zupkhZexpjhpfsjuthzuphoenp?hEjh. tmjqh m,hsughxghonmoxjhoxhoejhijqsxxt,
jqbjqhsx gqhYndurjouhMjosxrguhugqhoejhmsngfjpp,hugqhoxxlh mhenp
mxpnonxghuohLnooc’phmnyyxzkhOejhpfsjutheuqhp ipnqjq,hi ohoejsjhzuphpxtj
feugbjhgxzkhZeuohnohzuphejhqnqhgxohpjjhugqhqnqhgxohfxtmsjejgq,hugqhej
euqhgxhznpehoxhpjjhxshfxtmsjejgqkhI ohejhpuzhnohichoejhaufjhxahYndurjou
MjosxrgukhYndurjouhMjosxrgu’phaufjhzuphpojsghugqhmuyj,hugqhponyyhup
sjpxy oj,hoex behejsh.uzphzjsjhoznofengb,hugqhejshjcjphzjsjhanvjq
ngojgoychxghLnoockhLnooc’phpzxyyjghugqhubxgndjqhaufj,huhosjpphxaheuns
fyngbngbhoxhejshtxnpohisxz,hzupho sgjqhoxhenthugqhpx beohenphjcjpkhEjs
ynaojqheugqphupljqhaxshenpheugqpkhFy ofengbhenphfenyyheugqphnghejs
txnpohxgjp,hpejhijbughpw jjdngbhoejthoxhejshaufjk

“Qxg’ohbx,hqxg’ohbx!hN’thgxohuasunq,hN’thgxohuasunq!”hpejhpunqhsumnqyck
“Tuttu,houljhtchjussngbpkhOejchixoejshtjkhCx ’sjhgxohuasunq?hW nfl,
w nfl,hYndurjouhMjosxrgukkkk”

Pejhpmxljhw nflyc,hrjschw nflyc,hugqhosnjqhoxhptnyjkhI ohp qqjgychejs
aufjhzuphqsuzg,hpejhm pejqhenthuzuck

“Xe,hoenphnphuza y!hN’thqcngb,hN’thqcngb!hBxhuzuc!”hpejhpesnjljq,hugq
ubunghejhejusqhoeuoh gjusoeychpfsjutk

Yjrnghfy ofejqhuohenphejuqhugqhsughx ohxahoejhsxxtk

“No’phgxoengb,hno’phgxoengb,hno’phuyyhsnbeo,”hQxyychfuyyjqhuaojshentk

I ohoejchtnbeohpuchzeuohoejchynljq,hejhlgjzhgxzhoeuohuyyhzuphxrjskhEj
poxxqhnghoejhgjvohsxxt,henphejuqhyjugngbhubungpohoejhqxxshmxpo,hugq
ejusqhpesnjlp,hexzyphp fehuphejheuqhgjrjshejusqhijaxsj,hugqhejhlgjz
oeuohzeuoheuqhijjghLnoochzuph oojsngbhoejpjhpesnjlpkhEjheuqhyxgbhubx
fjupjqhoxhznpehaxshoejhfenyqkhIchgxzhejhyxuoejqhoenphfenyqkhEjhqnqhgxo
jrjghznpehaxshejshynajhgxz,huyyhejhyxgbjqhaxshzuphoejhjgqhxahoenphuza y
ugb npek

“Qxfoxs!hZeuohnphno?hZeuohnphno?hIchBxq!”hejhpunq,hpguofengbhuohoej
qxfoxs’pheugqhuphejhfutjh mk

“No’phoejhjgq,”hpunqhoejhqxfoxskhUgqhoejhqxfoxs’phaufjhzuphpxhbsurjhup
ejhpunqhnohoeuohYjrnghoxxlh_oejhjgq_huphtjugngbhejshqjuoek

Ijpnqjhentpjya,hejhsughngoxhoejhijqsxxtkhOejhanspohoengbhejhpuzhzuphoej
aufjhxahYndurjouhMjosxrgukhNohzuphjrjghtxsjhasxzgngbhugqhpojsgkhLnooc’p
aufjhejhqnqhgxohlgxzkhNghoejhmyufjhzejsjhnoheuqhijjghzuphpxtjoengbhoeuo
zuphajusa yhnghnophposungjqhqnpoxsonxghugqhnghoejhpx gqphoeuohfutjhasxt
nokhEjhajyyhqxzghznoehenphejuqhxghoejhzxxqjghasutjzxslhxahoejhijq,
ajjyngbhoeuohenphejusohzuphi spongbkhOejhuza yhpfsjuthgjrjshmu pjq,hno
ijfutjhponyyhtxsjhuza y,hugqhuphoex behnoheuqhsjufejqhoejh otxpohyntno
xahojssxs,hp qqjgychnohfjupjqkhYjrnghfx yqhgxohijynjrjhenphjusp,hi o
oejsjhfx yqhijhgxhqx io;hoejhpfsjutheuqhfjupjqhugqhejhejusqhuhp iq jq
ponshugqhi poyj,hugqhe ssnjqhisjuoengb,hugqhejshrxnfj,hbupmngb,huynrj,
ojgqjs,hugqhiynppa y,h oojsjqhpxaoyc,h“No’phxrjs!”

EjhynaojqhenphejuqkhZnoehejsheugqpheugbngbhjveu pojqhxghoejhw nyo,
yxxlngbhjvosuxsqngusnychyxrjychugqhpjsjgj,hpejhyxxljqhuohenthnghpnyjgfj
ugqhosnjqhoxhptnyj,hugqhfx yqhgxok

Ugqhp qqjgyc,hasxthoejhtcpojsnx phugqhuza yhaus-uzuchzxsyqhnghzenfehej
euqhijjghynrngbhaxshoejhyupohozjgoc-ozxhex sp,hYjrnghajyohentpjyahuyy
nghughngpougohixsgjhiuflhoxhoejhxyqhjrjsc-quchzxsyq,hbyxsnanjqhoex be
gxz,hichp fehuhsuqnugfjhxaheummngjpphoeuohejhfx yqhgxohijushnokhOej
posungjqhfexsqphpgummjq,hpxiphugqhojusphxah.xchzenfehejheuqhgjrjs
axsjpjjghsxpjh mhznoehp fehrnxyjgfjhoeuohenphzexyjhixqchpexxl,hoeuohaxs
yxgbhoejchmsjrjgojqhenthasxthpmjulngbk

Auyyngbhxghenphlgjjphijaxsjhoejhijq,hejhejyqhenphznaj’pheugqhijaxsjhenp
ynmphugqhlnppjqhno,hugqhoejheugq,hznoehuhzjulhtxrjtjgohxahoejhangbjsp,
sjpmxgqjqhoxhenphlnppkhUgqhtjugzenyj,hoejsjhuohoejhaxxohxahoejhijq,hng
oejhqjaoheugqphxahYndurjouhMjosxrgu,hynljhuhaynfljsngbhynbeohnghuhyutm,
yuchoejhynajhxahuhe tughfsjuo sj,hzenfeheuqhgjrjshjvnpojqhijaxsj,hugq
zenfehzx yqhgxzhznoehoejhputjhsnbeo,hznoehoejhputjhntmxsougfjhox
nopjya,hynrjhugqhfsjuojhnghnophxzghntubjk

“Uynrj!huynrj!hUgqhuhixchoxx!hPjohcx shtngqhuohsjpo!”hYjrnghejusq
YndurjouhMjosxrguhpucngb,huphpejhpyummjqhoejhiuic’phiuflhznoehuhpeulngb
eugqk

“Tuttu,hnphnohos j?”hpunqhLnooc’phrxnfjk

Oejhmsngfjpp’phpxiphzjsjhuyyhoejhugpzjsphpejhfx yqhtuljkhUgqhnghoej
tnqpohxahoejhpnyjgfjhoejsjhfutjhngh gtnpouluiyjhsjmychoxhoejhtxoejs’p
w jponxg,huhrxnfjhw nojh gynljhoejhp iq jqhrxnfjphpmjulngbhnghoejhsxxtk
Nohzuphoejhixyq,hfyutxsx p,hpjya-uppjsonrjhpw uyyhxahoejhgjzhe tug
ijngb,hzexheuqhpxhngfxtmsjejgpniychummjusjqk

NahYjrngheuqhijjghoxyqhijaxsjhoeuohLnoochzuphqjuq,hugqhoeuohejheuqhqnjq
znoehejs,hugqhoeuohoejnshfenyqsjghzjsjhugbjyp,hugqhoeuohBxqhzup
pougqngbhijaxsjhent,hejhzx yqheurjhijjghp smsnpjqhuohgxoengbkhI ohgxz,
fxtngbhiuflhoxhoejhzxsyqhxahsjuynoc,hejheuqhoxhtuljhbsjuohtjgouy
jaaxsophoxhouljhnghoeuohpejhzuphuynrjhugqhzjyy,hugqhoeuohoejhfsjuo sj
pw uyyngbhpxhqjpmjsuojychzuphenphpxgkhLnoochzuphuynrj,hejshubxgchzup
xrjskhUgqhejhzuph g oojsuiycheummckhOeuohejh gqjspoxxq;hejhzup
fxtmyjojycheummchnghnokhI ohoejhiuic?hZejgfj,hzec,hzexhzuphej?kkkhEj
fx yqhgxohbjoh pjqhoxhoejhnqjukhNohpjjtjqhoxhenthpxtjoengbhjvosugjx p,
p mjsay x p,hoxhzenfehejhfx yqhgxohuff poxthentpjyak


Feumojsh16

Uohojghx’fyxflhoejhxyqhmsngfj,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhPojmug
UsluqcjrnofehzjsjhpnoongbhuohYjrng’pkhEurngbhngw nsjqhuaojshLnooc,hoejc
euqhqsxmmjqhngoxhfxgrjspuonxgh mxghxoejshp i.jfopkhYjrnghejusqhoejt,
ugqh gfxgpfnx pyc,huphoejchouyljq,hbxngbhxrjshoejhmupo,hxrjshzeuoheuq
ijjgh mhoxhoeuohtxsgngb,hejhoex beohxahentpjyahuphejheuqhijjghcjpojsquc
onyyhoeuohmxngokhNohzuphuphoex behuhe gqsjqhcjuspheuqhmuppjqhpngfj
oejgkhEjhajyohentpjyahjvuyojqhoxh guoounguiyjhejnbeop,hasxthzenfehej
po qnx pychyxzjsjqhentpjyahpxhuphgxohoxhzx gqhoejhmjxmyjhejhzuphouylngb
oxkhEjhouyljq,hugqhzuphuyyhoejhontjhoenglngbhxahenphznaj,hxahejs
fxgqnonxghgxz,hxahenphpxg,hnghzexpjhjvnpojgfjhejhosnjqhoxhpfexxy
entpjyahngoxhijynjrngbkhOejhzexyjhzxsyqhxahzxtug,hzenfeheuqhouljghaxs
enthpngfjhenphtussnubjhuhgjzhruy jhejheuqhgjrjshp pmjfojqhijaxsj,hzup
gxzhpxhjvuyojqhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohouljhnohnghnghenphntubnguonxgkhEj
ejusqhoejthouylhxahcjpojsquc’phqnggjshuohoejhfy i,hugqhoex beo:h“Zeuo
npheummjgngbhznoehejshgxz?hNphpejhupyjjm?hExzhnphpej?hZeuohnphpej
oenglngbhxa?hNphejhfscngb,htchpxghQtnosn?”hUgqhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoej
fxgrjspuonxg,hnghoejhtnqqyjhxahuhpjgojgfj,hejh. tmjqh mhugqhzjgohx ohxa
oejhsxxtk

“PjgqhtjhzxsqhnahNhfughpjjhejs,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk

“Rjschzjyy,hnghuhtng oj,”hugpzjsjqhYjrng,hugqhznoex ohpoxmmngb,hejhzjgo
oxhejshsxxtk

Pejhzuphgxohupyjjm,hpejhzuphouylngbhbjgoychznoehejshtxoejs,htulngb
myugphuix ohoejhfesnpojgngbk

Fusja yychpjohoxhsnbeop,hznoeheunshzjyy-is pejq,hnghuhptusohynooyjhfum
znoehpxtjhiy jhnghno,hejshustphx ohxghoejhw nyo,hpejhzuphycngbhxghejs
iuflkhTjjongbhenphjcjp,hejshjcjphqsjzhenthoxhejskhEjshaufj,hisnbeo
ijaxsj,hisnbeojgjqhponyyhtxsjhuphejhqsjzhgjushejskhOejsjhzuphoejhputj
feugbjhnghnohasxthjusoeychoxh gjusoeychoeuohnphpjjghnghoejhaufjhxahoej
qjuqkhI ohoejghnohtjugphausjzjyy,hejsjhnohtjugohzjyfxtjkhUbunghuhs pe
xahjtxonxg,hp fehuphejheuqhajyohuohoejhtxtjgohxahoejhfenyq’phinsoe,
ayxxqjqhenphejusokhPejhoxxlhenpheugqhugqhupljqhenthnahejheuqhpyjmokhEj
fx yqhgxohugpzjs,hugqho sgjqhuzuc,hpos bbyngbhznoehenphzjulgjppk

“Nheurjheuqhuhgum,hLxpocu!”hpejhpunqhoxhent;h“ugqhNhuthpxhfxtaxsouiyj
gxzk”

Pejhyxxljqhuohent,hi ohp qqjgychejshjvmsjppnxghfeugbjqk

“Bnrjhenthoxhtj,”hpejhpunq,hejusngbhoejhiuic’phfsckh“Bnrjhenthoxhtj,
YndurjouhMjosxrgu,hugqhejhpeuyyhyxxlhuohentk”

“Oxhijhp sj,henphmumuhpeuyyhyxxlhuohent,”hpunqhYndurjouhMjosxrgu,
bjoongbh mhugqhisngbngbhpxtjoengbhsjq,hugqhw jjs,hugqhzsnbbyngbkh“Zuno
uhtng oj,hzj’yyhtuljhenthonqchanspo,”hugqhYndurjouhMjosxrguhyunqhoej
sjqhzxiiyngbhoengbhxghoejhijq,hijbugh gos ppngbhugqhos ppngbh mhoej
iuic,hynaongbhnoh mhugqho sgngbhnohxrjshznoehxgjhangbjshugqhmxzqjsngb
nohznoehpxtjoengbk

Yjrng,hyxxlngbhuohoejhongc,hmnona yhfsjuo sj,htuqjhposjg x phjaaxsophox
qnpfxrjshnghenphejusohpxtjhosufjphxahauoejsychajjyngbhaxshnokhEjhajyo
gxoengbhoxzusqphnohi ohqnpb pokhI ohzejghnohzuph gqsjppjqhugqhejhfu beo
uhbyntmpjhxahzjj,hzjj,hynooyjheugqp,hynooyjhajjo,hpuaasxg-fxyxsjq,hznoe
ynooyjhoxjp,hoxx,hugqhmxpnonrjychznoehuhynooyjhinbhoxjhqnaajsjgohasxt
oejhsjpo,hugqhzejghejhpuzhYndurjouhMjosxrguhfyxpngbhoejhznqj-xmjg
ynooyjheugqp,huphoex behoejchzjsjhpxaohpmsngbp,hugqhm oongbhoejthngox
yngjghbustjgop,hp fehmnochaxshoejhynooyjhfsjuo sjhfutjh mxghent,hugq
p fehojssxshoeuohpejhzx yqhe sohno,hoeuohejhejyqhejsheugqhiuflk

YndurjouhMjosxrguhyu bejqk

“Qxg’ohijhasnbeojgjq,hqxg’ohijhasnbeojgjq!”

Zejghoejhiuicheuqhijjghm ohoxhsnbeophugqhosugpaxstjqhngoxhuhansthqxyy,
YndurjouhMjosxrguhqugqyjqhnohuphoex behmsx qhxahejsheugqnzxsl,hugq
poxxqhuhynooyjhuzuchpxhoeuohYjrnghtnbeohpjjhenphpxghnghuyyhenphbyxsck

Lnoochyxxljqhpnqjzucphnghoejhputjhqnsjfonxg,hgjrjshoulngbhejshjcjphxaa
oejhiuickh“Bnrjhenthoxhtj!hbnrjhenthoxhtj!”hpejhpunq,hugqhjrjghtuqjhup
oex behpejhzx yqhpnoh mk

“Zeuohusjhcx hoenglngbhxa,hLuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrgu,hcx ht pog’ohtxrjhynlj
oeuo!hZunohuhtng ojkhN’yyhbnrjhenthoxhcx khEjsjhzj’sjhpexzngbhmumuhzeuo
uhangjhajyyxzhzjhusj!”

UgqhYndurjouhMjosxrgu,hznoehxgjheugqhp mmxsongbhoejhzxiiyngbhejuq,
ynaojqh mhxghoejhxoejshusthoejhposugbj,hyntm,hsjqhfsjuo sj,hzexpjhejuq
zuphyxpohnghnophpzuqqyngbhfyxoejpkhI ohnoheuqhuhgxpj,hoxx,hugqhpyugongb
jcjphugqhptuflngbhynmpk

“Uhpmyjgqnqhiuic!”hpunqhYndurjouhMjosxrguk

YjrnghpnbejqhznoehtxsonanfuonxgkhOenphpmyjgqnqhiuichjvfnojqhnghenthgx
ajjyngbhi ohqnpb pohugqhfxtmuppnxgkhNohzuphgxohuohuyyhoejhajjyngbhej
euqhyxxljqhaxszusqhoxk

Ejho sgjqhuzuchzenyjhYndurjouhMjosxrguhm ohoejhiuichoxhoejh guff poxtjq
isjupok

P qqjgychyu beojshtuqjhenthyxxlhsx gqkhOejhiuicheuqhouljghoejhisjupok

“Fxtj,hoeuo’phjgx be,hoeuo’phjgx be!”hpunqhYndurjouhMjosxrgu,hi ohLnooc
zx yqhgxohyjohoejhiuichbxkhEjhajyyhupyjjmhnghejshustpk

“Yxxl,hgxz,”hpunqhLnooc,ho sgngbhoejhiuichpxhoeuohejhfx yqhpjjhnokhOej
ubjq-yxxlngbhynooyjhaufjhp qqjgychm fljsjqh mhponyyhtxsjhugqhoejhiuic
pgjjdjqk

Ptnyngb,heusqychuiyjhoxhsjposunghenphojusp,hYjrnghlnppjqhenphznajhugq
zjgohx ohxahoejhquslhsxxtkhZeuohejhajyohoxzusqphoenphynooyjhfsjuo sj
zuph oojsych gynljhzeuohejheuqhjvmjfojqkhOejsjhzuphgxoengbhfejjsa yhugq
.xcx phnghoejhajjyngb;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hnohzuphuhgjzhoxso sjhxa
ummsjejgpnxgkhNohzuphoejhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahuhgjzhpmejsjhxahynuinynochox
mungkhUgqhoenphpjgpjhzuphpxhmunga yhuohanspo,hoejhummsjejgpnxghyjpo
oenphejymyjpphfsjuo sjhpex yqhp aajshzuphpxhngojgpj,hoeuohnohmsjrjgojq
enthasxthgxonfngbhoejhposugbjhoesnyyhxahpjgpjyjpph.xchugqhjrjghmsnqj
oeuohejheuqhajyohzejghoejhiuichpgjjdjqk


Feumojsh17

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phuaaunsphzjsjhnghuhrjschiuqhzuck

Oejhtxgjchaxshozx-oensqphxahoejhaxsjpoheuqhuyyhijjghpmjgohuysjuqc,hugq
ejheuqhixssxzjqhasxthoejhtjsfeugohnghuqrugfjhuohojghmjshfjgohqnpfx go,
uytxpohuyyhoejhsjtungngbhoensqkhOejhtjsfeugohzx yqhgxohbnrjhtxsj,
jpmjfnuyychuphQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,haxshoejhanspohontjhoeuohzngojs
ngpnpongbhxghejshsnbeohoxhejshxzghmsxmjsoc,heuqhsja pjqhoxhpnbghoej
sjfjnmohaxshoejhmuctjgohxahoejhyupohoensqhxahoejhaxsjpokhUyyhenphpuyusc
zjgohxghex pjexyqhjvmjgpjphugqhnghmuctjgohxahmjoochqjiophoeuohfx yqhgxo
ijhm ohxaakhOejsjhzuphmxpnonrjychgxhtxgjck

Oenphzuph gmyjupugohugqhuzlzusq,hugqhnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phxmngnxg
oengbphfx yqhgxohbxhxghynljhoenpkhOejhjvmyuguonxghxahoejhmxpnonxghzup,
nghenphrnjz,hoxhijhax gqhnghoejhaufohoeuohenphpuyuschzuphoxxhptuyykhOej
mxpohejhanyyjqheuqhijjgh gtnpouluiychrjschbxxqhanrjhcjusphubx,hi ohno
zuphpxhgxhyxgbjsk

Mjosxr,hoejhiuglhqnsjfoxs,heuqhozjyrjhoex pugq;hPrjgonoplc,huhfxtmugc
qnsjfoxs,heuqhpjrjgojjghoex pugq;hTnong,hzexheuqhax gqjqhuhiugl,
sjfjnrjqhanaochoex pugqk

“FyjusychN’rjhijjghgummngb,hugqhoejc’rjhxrjsyxxljqhtj,”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehoex beohuix ohentpjyakhUgqhejhijbughljjmngbhenphjcjphugq
jusphxmjg,hugqhoxzusqphoejhjgqhxahoejhzngojshejheuqhqnpfxrjsjqhuhrjsc
bxxqhijsoehugqheuqhaxstjqhuhmyughxahuoouflh mxghno,huohanspohasxt
Txpfxzhoesx behu gop,h gfyjp,hugqhasnjgqp,hugqhoejg,hzejghoejhtuoojs
zuphzjyyhuqrugfjq,hnghoejhpmsngb,hejhzjgohentpjyahoxhMjojspi sbkhNohzup
xgjhxahoexpjhpg b,hy fsuonrjhijsoephxahzenfehoejsjhusjhpxhtugchtxsj
gxzuqucphoeughoejsjh pjqhoxhij,hznoehngfxtjphsugbngbhasxthxgjhoex pugq
oxhanaochoex pugqhsx iyjpkhNohzuphoejhmxpohxahpjfsjouschxahoej
fxttnoojjhxahoejhutuybutuojqhubjgfchxahoejhpx oejsghsunyzucp,hugqhxa
fjsounghiuglngbhfxtmugnjpkhOenphmxpnonxg,hynljhuyyhp fehummxngotjgop,
fuyyjqhaxshp fehnttjgpjhjgjsbchugqhp fehrusnjqhw uynanfuonxgp,hoeuohno
zuphqnaanf yohaxshoejthoxhijhax gqh gnojqhnghugchxgjhtugkhUgqhpngfjhu
tughfxtingngbhuyyhoejhw uynanfuonxgphzuphgxohoxhijhax gq,hnohzuphuo
yjupohijoojshoeuohoejhmxpohijhanyyjqhichughexgjpohoeughichuhqnpexgjpo
tugkhUgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphgxohtjsjychughexgjpo
tug— gjtmeuonfuyyc—nghoejhfxttxghuffjmouonxghxahoejhzxsqp,hejhzuphug
exgjpohtug—jtmeuonfuyyc—nghoeuohpmjfnuyhpjgpjhzenfehoejhzxsqheuphng
Txpfxz,hzejghoejchouylhxahugh“exgjpo”hmxynonfnug,hugh“exgjpo”hzsnojs,
ugh“exgjpo”hgjzpmumjs,hugh“exgjpo”hngpono onxg,hugh“exgjpo”hojgqjgfc,
tjugngbhgxohpntmychoeuohoejhtughxshoejhngpono onxghnphgxohqnpexgjpo,
i ohoeuohoejchusjhfumuiyjhxghxffupnxghxahoulngbhuhyngjhxahoejnshxzghng
xmmxpnonxghoxhoejhu oexsnonjpk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehtxrjqhnghoexpjhfnsfyjphnghTxpfxzhnghzenfehoeuo
jvmsjppnxgheuqhfxtjhngoxh pj,hzuphsjbusqjqhoejsjhuphughexgjpohtug,hugq
pxheuqhtxsjhsnbeohoxhoenphummxngotjgohoeughxoejspk

Oejhummxngotjgohcnjyqjqhughngfxtjhxahasxthpjrjghoxhojghoex pugqhuhcjus,
ugqhXiyxgplchfx yqhanyyhnohznoex ohbnrngbh mhenphbxrjsgtjgohmxpnonxgk
Nohzuphnghoejheugqphxahozxhtngnpojsp,hxgjhyuqc,hugqhozxh.jzp,hugqhuyy
oejpjhmjxmyj,hoex behoejhzucheuqhijjghmurjqhuysjuqchznoehoejt,hPojmug
UsluqcjrnofeheuqhoxhpjjhnghMjojspi sbkhIjpnqjphoenphi pngjpp,hPojmug
UsluqcjrnofeheuqhmsxtnpjqhenphpnpojshUgguhoxhxiounghasxthLusjgnghu
qjangnojhugpzjshxghoejhw jponxghxahqnrxsfjkhUgqhijbbngbhanaochsx iyjp
asxthQxyyc,hejhpjohxaahaxshMjojspi sbk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuohnghLusjgng’phpo qchynpojgngbhoxhenphsjmxsohxg
oejhfu pjphxahoejh gpuonpaufoxschmxpnonxghxahS ppnughangugfj,hugqhxgyc
zunongbhaxshoejhtxtjgohzejghejhzx yqhangnpehoxhpmjulhuix ohenphxzg
i pngjpphxshuix ohUgguk

“Cjp,hoeuo’phrjschos j,”hejhpunq,hzejghUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehoxxlhxaa
oejhmngfj-gjd,hznoex ohzenfehejhfx yqhgxohsjuqhgxz,hugqhyxxljq
ngw nsngbychuohenphaxstjshisxoejs-ng-yuz,h“oeuo’phrjschos jhng
musonf yushfupjp,hi ohponyyhoejhmsngfnmyjhxahx shquchnphasjjqxtk”

“Cjp,hi ohNhyuchqxzghugxoejshmsngfnmyj,hjtisufngbhoejhmsngfnmyjhxa
asjjqxt,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hznoehjtmeupnphxghoejhzxsq
“jtisufngb,”hugqhejhm ohxghenphmngfj-gjdhubung,hpxhuphoxhsjuqhoej
muppubjhnghzenfehoenphpouojtjgohzuphtuqjkhUgqho sgngbhxrjshoej
iju ona yychzsnoojg,hznqj-tusbngjqhtug pfsnmo,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
sjuqhuyx qhxrjshubunghoejhfxgfy pnrjhmuppubjk

“Nhqxg’ohuqrxfuojhmsxojfonxghaxshoejhpuljhxahmsnruojhngojsjpop,hi ohaxs
oejhm iynfhzjuy,hugqhaxshoejhyxzjshugqh mmjshfyuppjphjw uyyc,”hejhpunq,
yxxlngbhxrjshenphmngfj-gjdhuohXiyxgplckh“I oh_oejc_hfuggxohbsupmhoeuo,
_oejc_husjhouljgh mhgxzhznoehmjspxguyhngojsjpop,hugqhfussnjqhuzuchic
mesupjpk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehlgjzhoeuohzejghLusjgnghijbughoxhouylhxahzeuoh_oejc_
zjsjhqxngbhugqhoenglngb,hoejhmjspxgphzexhzx yqhgxohuffjmohenphsjmxso
ugqhzjsjhoejhfu pjhxahjrjscoengbhzsxgbhnghS ppnu,hoeuohnohzuphfxtngb
gjushoejhjgqkhUgqhpxhgxzhejhjubjsychuiugqxgjqhoejhmsngfnmyjhxa
asjj-osuqj,hugqha yychubsjjqkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehmu pjq,
oex beoa yycho sgngbhxrjshoejhmubjphxahenphtug pfsnmok

“Xe,hichoejhzuc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,h“Nhzugojqhoxhuplhcx ,hpxtj
ontjhzejghcx hpjjhMxtxsplc,hoxhqsxmhenthuhengohoeuohNhpex yqhijhrjsc
byuqhoxhbjohoeuohgjzhummxngotjgohxahpjfsjouschxahoejhfxttnoojjhxahoej
utuybutuojqhubjgfchxahoejhpx oejsghsunyzucphugqhiuglngbhfxtmugnjpk”
PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphautnynushichgxzhznoehoejhonoyjhxahoejhmxpohej
fxrjojq,hugqhejhisx beohnohx ohsumnqychznoex ohtnpouljk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehw jponxgjqhenthuphoxhoejhq onjphxahoenphgjz
fxttnoojj,hugqhmxgqjsjqkhEjhzuphfxgpnqjsngbhzejoejshoejhgjzhfxttnoojj
zx yqhgxohijhufongbhnghpxtjhzuchfxgosuschoxhoejhrnjzphejheuqhijjg
uqrxfuongbkhI ohuphoejhngay jgfjhxahoejhgjzhfxttnoojjhzuphxahuhrjsc
fxtmyjvhguo sj,hugqhenphrnjzphzjsjhxahrjschznqjhummynfuonxg,hejhfx yq
gxohqjfnqjhoenphposunbeohxaa,hugqhoulngbhxaahenphmngfj-gjd,hejhpunq:

“Xahfx spj,hNhfughtjgonxghnohoxhent;hi ohzeuohnphcx shsjupxghmsjfnpjyc
axshznpengbhoxhxiounghoejhummxngotjgo?”

“No’phuhbxxqhpuyusc,hsnpngbhoxhgngjhoex pugq,hugqhtchtjugpkkkk”

“Gngjhoex pugq!”hsjmjuojqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hugqhejhasxzgjqkhOej
enbehanb sjhxahoejhpuyuschtuqjhenthsjayjfohoeuohxghoeuohpnqjhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe’phmsxmxpjqhmxpnonxghsughfx gojshoxhoejhtunghojgqjgfchxa
enphxzghmsx.jfophxahsjaxst,hzenfehuyzucphyjugjqhoxzusqphjfxgxtck

“Nhfxgpnqjs,hugqhNheurjhjtixqnjqhtchrnjzphnghuhgxojhxghoejhp i.jfo,
oeuohnghx shquchoejpjhnttjgpjhpuyusnjphusjhjrnqjgfjhxahoejh gpx gq
jfxgxtnfh_uppnjooj_hxahx shangugfjpk”

“I ohzeuo’phoxhijhqxgj?”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“P mmxpjhuhiugl
qnsjfoxshbjophojghoex pugq—zjyy,hej’phzxsoehno;hxshughjgbngjjshbjop
ozjgochoex pugq—uaojshuyy,hno’phuhbsxzngbhoengb,hcx hlgxz!”

“Nhupp tjhoeuohuhpuyuschnphoejhmsnfjhmunqhaxshuhfxttxqnoc,hugqhnohx beo
oxhfxgaxsthznoehoejhyuzhxahp mmychugqhqjtugqkhNahoejhpuyuschnphanvjq
znoex ohugchsjbusqhaxshoeuohyuz,hup,haxshngpougfj,hzejghNhpjjhozx
jgbngjjsphyjurngbhfxyyjbjhoxbjoejs,hixoehjw uyychzjyyhosungjqhugq
jaanfnjgo,hugqhxgjhbjoongbhaxsochoex pugqhzenyjhoejhxoejshnphpuonpanjq
znoehozx;hxshzejghNhpjjhyuzcjsphugqhe ppusp,heurngbhgxhpmjfnuy
w uynanfuonxgp,hummxngojqhqnsjfoxsphxahiuglngbhfxtmugnjphznoehnttjgpj
puyusnjp,hNhfxgfy qjhoeuohoejhpuyuschnphgxohanvjqhnghuffxsqugfjhznoe
oejhyuzhxahp mmychugqhqjtugq,hi ohpntmychoesx behmjspxguyhngojsjpokhUgq
oenphnphughui pjhxahbsjuohbsurnochnghnopjya,hugqhxgjhoeuohsjufop
ng. snx pychxghoejhbxrjsgtjgohpjsrnfjkhNhfxgpnqjskkkk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehtuqjheupojhoxhngojss mohenphisxoejs-ng-yuzk

“Cjp;hi ohcx ht pohubsjjhoeuohno’phuhgjzhngpono onxghxah gqx iojq
 onynochoeuo’phijngbhpousojqkhUaojshuyy,hcx hlgxz,hno’phuhbsxzngb
oengb!hZeuohoejchyuchmusonf yushposjpphxghnphoejhoengbhijngbhfussnjqhxg
exgjpoyc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehznoehjtmeupnpk

I ohoejhTxpfxzhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoejhzxsqh“exgjpo”hzuphyxpohxghUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

“Exgjpochnphxgychuhgjbuonrjhw uynanfuonxg,”hejhpunqk

“Zjyy,hcx ’yyhqxhtjhuhbsjuohpjsrnfj,hugczuc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
“ichm oongbhnghuhzxsqhoxhMxtxsplc—. pohnghoejhzuchxahfxgrjspuonxgkkkk”

“I ohNhaugfchno’phtxsjhnghRxybusngxr’pheugqp,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

“Rxybusngxrheupha yychuppjgojq,huphaushuphej’phfxgfjsgjq,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,ho sgngbhsjqkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjqqjgjqhuohoejhtjgonxg
xahoeuohgutj,hijfu pjhejheuqhijjghoeuohtxsgngbhuohoejh.jzhRxybusngxr’p,
ugqhoejhrnpnoheuqhyjaohugh gmyjupugohsjfxyyjfonxgk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehijynjrjqhtxpohmxpnonrjychoeuohoejhfxttnoojjhng
zenfehejhzuphoscngbhoxhbjohughummxngotjgohzuphuhgjz,hbjg ngj,hugq
exgjpohm iynfhixqc,hi ohoeuohtxsgngbhzejghRxybusngxrheuq—ngojgonxguyyc,
ijcxgqhuhqx io—ljmohenthozxhex sphzunongbhznoehxoejshmjononxgjsphnghenp
zunongbhsxxt,hejheuqhp qqjgychajyoh gjupck

Zejoejshejhzuph gfxtaxsouiyjhoeuohej,huhqjpfjgqugohxahS snl,hMsngfj
Xiyxgplc,heuqhijjghljmohaxshozxhex sphzunongbhoxhpjjhuh.jz,hxshoeuohaxs
oejhanspohontjhnghenphynajhejhzuphgxohaxyyxzngbhoejhjvutmyjhxahenp
ugfjpoxsphnghpjsrngbhoejhbxrjsgtjgo,hi ohzupho sgngbhxaahngoxhuhgjz
fusjjs,hugczuchejhzuphrjsch gfxtaxsouiyjkhQ sngbhoexpjhozxhex sphng
Rxybusngxr’phzunongbhsxxthPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hpojmmngbh.u gonychuix o
oejhsxxt,hm yyngbhenphzenpljsp,hjgojsngbhngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoej
xoejshmjononxgjsp,hugqhngrjgongbhughjmnbsuthxghenphmxpnonxg,
uppnq x pychfxgfjuyjqhasxthxoejsp,hugqhjrjghasxthentpjya,hoejhajjyngb
ejhzuphjvmjsnjgfngbk

I ohuyyhoejhontjhejhzuph gfxtaxsouiyjhugqhugbsc,hejhfx yqhgxoheurjhpunq
zec—zejoejshijfu pjhejhfx yqhgxohbjohenphjmnbsuth. pohsnbeo,hxshasxt
pxtjhxoejshsjupxgkhZejghuohyupohRxybusngxrheuqhsjfjnrjqhenthznoe
jvubbjsuojqhmxynojgjpphugqh gtnpouluiyjhosn tmehuohenphe tnynuonxg,hugq
euqhuyyhi ohsja pjqhoejhaurxshupljqhxahent,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuq
tuqjheupojhoxhaxsbjohnohuyyhuphpxxghuphmxppniyjkhUgqhgxz,huohoejhtjsj
sjfxyyjfonxg,hejhiy pejqk


Feumojsh18

“GxzhoejsjhnphpxtjoengbhNhzugohoxhouylhuix o,hugqhcx hlgxzhzeuohnohnpk
Uix ohUggu,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunq,hmu pngbhaxshuhisnjahpmufj,hugq
peulngbhxaahoejh gmyjupugohntmsjppnxgk

UphpxxghuphXiyxgplch oojsjqhUggu’phgutj,hoejhaufjhxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzuphfxtmyjojychosugpaxstjq;huyyhoejhynajhzuphbxgjhx ohxa
no,hugqhnohyxxljqhzjuschugqhqjuqk

“Zeuohnphnohjvufoychoeuohcx hzugohasxthtj?”hejhpunq,htxrngbhnghenp
feunshugqhpgummngbhenphmngfj-gjdk

“Uhqjangnojhpjooyjtjgo,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpxtjhpjooyjtjgohxahoej
mxpnonxgkhN’thummjuyngbhoxhcx ”h(“gxohuphughng. sjqhe piugq,”hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehzuphbxngbhoxhpuc,hi ohuasunqhxahzsjflngbhenphgjbxonuonxg
ichoenp,hejhfeugbjqhoejhzxsqp)h“gxohuphuhpouojptug”h(zenfehqnqhgxo
px gqh_àhmsxmxp_),h“i ohpntmychuphuhtug,hugqhuhbxxq-ejusojqhtughugqhu
FesnponugkhCx ht poheurjhmnochxghejs,”hejhpunqk

“Oeuohnp,hnghzeuohzuchmsjfnpjyc?”hLusjgnghpunqhpxaoyck

“Cjp,hmnochxghejskhNahcx heuqhpjjghejshuphNheurj!—Nheurjhijjghpmjgqngb
uyyhoejhzngojshznoehejs—cx hzx yqheurjhmnochxghejskhEjshmxpnonxghnp
uza y,hpntmychuza y!”

“Nheuqhntubngjq,”hugpzjsjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehnghuhenbejs,huytxpo
pesnyyhrxnfj,h“oeuohUgguhUsluqcjrguheuqhjrjscoengbhpejheuqhqjpnsjqhaxs
ejspjyak”

“Xe,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,haxshejurjg’phpulj,hqxg’ohyjoh phngq ybjhng
sjfsntnguonxgp!hZeuohnphmupohnphmupo,hugqhcx hlgxzhzeuohpejhzugophugq
nphzunongbhaxs—qnrxsfjk”

“I ohNhijynjrjhUgguhUsluqcjrguhsja pjphuhqnrxsfj,hnahNhtuljhnohu
fxgqnonxghoxhyjurjhtjhtchpxgkhNhsjmynjqhnghoeuohpjgpj,hugqhp mmxpjq
oeuohoejhtuoojshzuphjgqjqkhNhfxgpnqjshnohuohughjgq,”hpesnjljqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofek

“I o,haxshejurjg’phpulj,hqxg’ohbjohexo!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
ox fengbhenphisxoejs-ng-yuz’phlgjjkh“OejhtuoojshnphgxohjgqjqkhNahcx 
znyyhuyyxzhtjhoxhsjfumno yuoj,hnohzuphynljhoenp:hzejghcx hmusojq,hcx 
zjsjhuphtubgugntx phuphfx yqhmxppniychij;hcx hzjsjhsjuqchoxhbnrjhejs
jrjscoengb—asjjqxt,hqnrxsfjhjrjgkhPejhummsjfnuojqhoeuokhGx,hqxg’ohoengl
oeuokhPejhqnqhummsjfnuojhno—oxhp fehuhqjbsjjhoeuohuohoejhanspohtxtjgo,
ajjyngbhexzhpejheuqhzsxgbjqhcx ,hpejhqnqhgxohfxgpnqjshugqhfx yqhgxo
fxgpnqjshjrjscoengbkhPejhburjh mhjrjscoengbkhI ohjvmjsnjgfj,hontj,heurj
pexzghoeuohejshmxpnonxghnph gijusuiyj,hntmxppniyjk”

“OejhynajhxahUgguhUsluqcjrguhfugheurjhgxhngojsjpohaxshtj,”hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehm ohng,hynaongbhenphjcjisxzpk

“Uyyxzhtjhoxhqnpijynjrjhoeuo,”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehsjmynjqhbjgoyckh“Ejs
mxpnonxghnphngoxyjsuiyjhaxshejs,hugqhxahgxhijgjanohoxhugcxgjhzeuojrjsk
Pejheuphqjpjsrjqhno,hcx hznyyhpuckhPejhlgxzphoeuohugqhuplphcx haxs
gxoengb;hpejhpucphmyungychoeuohpejhqusjhgxohuplhcx khI ohN,huyyhxah p,
ejshsjyuonrjp,huyyhzexhyxrjhejs,hijbhcx ,hjgosjuohcx khZechpex yqhpej
p aajs?hZexhnphugchoejhijoojshaxshno?”

“Jvf pjhtj,hcx hpjjthoxhm ohtjhnghoejhmxpnonxghxahoejhb nyochmusoc,”
xipjsrjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Xe,hgx,hxe,hgx,hgxohuohuyy!hmyjupjh gqjspougqhtj,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hox fengbhenpheugqhubung,huphoex behajjyngbhp sjhoenp
mecpnfuyhfxgoufohzx yqhpxaojghenphisxoejs-ng-yuzkh“UyyhNhpuchnphoenp:
ejshmxpnonxghnphngoxyjsuiyj,hugqhnohtnbeohijhuyyjrnuojqhichcx ,hugqhcx 
znyyhyxpjhgxoengbhichnokhNhznyyhussugbjhnohuyyhaxshcx ,hpxhoeuohcx ’yy
gxohgxonfjhnokhCx hqnqhmsxtnpjhno,hcx hlgxzk”

“OejhmsxtnpjhzuphbnrjghijaxsjkhUgqhNheuqhp mmxpjqhoeuohoejhw jponxghxa
tchpxgheuqhpjooyjqhoejhtuoojskhIjpnqjp,hNheuqhexmjqhoeuohUggu
Usluqcjrguheuqhjgx behbjgjsxpnockkkk”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehusonf yuojq
znoehqnaanf yoc,henphynmphoznofengbhugqhenphaufjhzenojk

“Pejhyjurjphnohuyyhoxhcx shbjgjsxpnockhPejhijbp,hpejhntmyxsjphxgjhoengb
xahcx —oxhjvosnfuojhejshasxthoejhntmxppniyjhmxpnonxghnghzenfehpejhnp
myufjqkhPejhqxjphgxohuplhaxshejshpxghgxzkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hcx 
usjhuhbxxqhtugkhM ohcx spjyahnghejshmxpnonxghaxshuhtng ojkhOejhw jponxg
xahqnrxsfjhaxshejshnghejshmxpnonxghnphuhw jponxghxahynajhugqhqjuoekhNa
cx heuqhgxohmsxtnpjqhnohxgfj,hpejhzx yqheurjhsjfxgfnyjqhejspjyahoxhejs
mxpnonxg,hpejhzx yqheurjhbxgjhxghynrngbhnghoejhfx gosckhI ohcx 
msxtnpjqhno,hugqhpejhzsxojhoxhcx ,hugqhtxrjqhoxhTxpfxzkhUgqhejsjhpej’p
ijjghaxshpnvhtxgoephnghTxpfxz,hzejsjhjrjschfeugfjhtjjongbhf ophejshox
oejhejuso,hjrjschquchjvmjfongbhughugpzjskhZec,hno’phynljhljjmngbhu
fxgqjtgjqhfsntnguyhaxshpnvhtxgoephznoehoejhsxmjhsx gqhenphgjfl,
msxtnpngbhenthmjseumphqjuoe,hmjseumphtjsfckhEurjhmnochxghejs,hugqhN
znyyh gqjsouljhoxhussugbjhjrjscoengbkh_Rxphpfs m yjp_kkkk”

“Nhuthgxohouylngbhuix ohoeuo,huix ohoeuokkkk”hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
ngojss mojqhznoehqnpb pokh“I o,hmjseump,hNhmsxtnpjqhzeuohNheuqhgxhsnbeo
oxhmsxtnpjk”

“Pxhcx hbxhiuflhasxthcx shmsxtnpj?”

“Nheurjhgjrjshsja pjqhoxhqxhuyyhoeuohnphmxppniyj,hi ohNhzugohontjhox
fxgpnqjshexzht fehxahzeuohNhmsxtnpjqhnphmxppniyjk”

“Gx,hUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe!”hfsnjqhXiyxgplc,h. tmngbh m,h“Nhzxg’o
ijynjrjhoeuo!hPej’ph geummchuphxgychugh geummchzxtughfughij,hugqhcx 
fuggxohsja pjhnghp fekkkk”

“Upht fehxahzeuohNhmsxtnpjqhuphnphmxppniyjkh_Rx phmsxajppjdhq’êosj
ynisjhmjgpj sk_hI ohNhuphuhijynjrjshfuggxo,hnghuhtuoojshxahp fe
bsurnoc,hufohnghxmmxpnonxghoxhoejhFesnponughyuzk”

“I ohnghFesnponughpxfnjonjphugqhutxgbh p,huphaushuphN’thuzusj,hqnrxsfj
nphuyyxzjq,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Qnrxsfjhnphpugfonxgjqhjrjghic
x shfe sfekhUgqhzjhpjjkkkk”

“Nohnphuyyxzjq,hi ohgxohnghoejhpjgpjkkkk”

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hcx husjhgxohynljhcx spjya,”hpunqhXiyxgplc,
uaojshuhisnjahmu pjkh“Zupg’ohnohcx h(ugqhqnqg’ohzjhuyyhummsjfnuojhnohng
cx ?)hzexhaxsburjhjrjscoengb,hugqhtxrjqhpntmychichFesnponughajjyngbhzup
sjuqchoxhtuljhugchpufsnanfj?hCx hpunqhcx spjya:hnahuhtughouljhoechfxuo,
bnrjhenthoechfyxulhuypx,hugqhgxzkkkk”

“Nhijb,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpesnyyc,hbjoongbhp qqjgychxgoxhenp
ajjo,henphaufjhzenojhugqhenph.uzphoznofengb,h“Nhijbhcx hoxhqsxmhoenp
kkkhoxhqsxmhkkkhoenphp i.jfo!”

“Xe,hgx!hXe,haxsbnrjhtj,haxsbnrjhtjhnahNheurjhzx gqjqhcx ,”hpunqhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hexyqngbhx ohenpheugqhznoehuhptnyjhxahjtiussupptjgo;h“i o
ynljhuhtjppjgbjshNheurjhpntmychmjsaxstjqhoejhfxttnppnxghbnrjghtjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehburjhenthenpheugq,hmxgqjsjqhuhynooyj,hugqhpunq:

“Nht pohoenglhnohxrjshugqhpjjlhaxshb nqugfjkhOejhquchuaojshoxtxssxzhN
znyyhbnrjhcx huhanguyhugpzjs,”hejhpunq,huaojshfxgpnqjsngbhuhtxtjgok


Feumojsh19

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphuix ohoxhbxhuzuchzejghLxsgjchfutjhnghox
uggx gfj:

“PjsbjchUyjvcjrnofe!”

“Zex’phPjsbjchUyjvcjrnofe?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphijbnggngb,hi ohej
sjtjtijsjqhnttjqnuojyck

“Ue,hPjscxdeu!”hejhpunqhuyx qkh“PjsbjchUyjvcjrnofe!hNhoex beohnohzup
oejhqnsjfoxshxahuhqjmusotjgokhUgguhupljqhtjhoxhpjjhenthoxx,”hej
oex beok

Ugqhejhsjfuyyjqhoejhontnq,hmnojx phjvmsjppnxghznoehzenfehUgguheuqhpunq
oxhenthuohmusongb:h“Ugczuc,hcx hznyyhpjjhentkhAngqhx ohjvufoychzejsjhej
np,hzexhnphyxxlngbhuaojshentkhUgqhPonruhkkkhnahnohzjsjhmxppniyj!hFx yq
nohijhmxppniyj?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehlgjzhzeuohzuphtjugohichoeuoh“nahno
zjsjhmxppniyj,”—nahnohzjsjhmxppniyjhoxhussugbjhoejhqnrxsfjhpxhuphoxhyjo
ejsheurjhejshpxgkkkkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuzhgxzhoeuohnohzuphgxhbxxqhox
qsjuthxahoeuo,hi ohponyyhejhzuphbyuqhoxhpjjhenphgjmejzk

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehsjtngqjqhenphisxoejs-ng-yuzhoeuohoejchgjrjshpmxlj
oxhoejhixchxahenphtxoejs,hugqhejhijbbjqhenthgxohoxhtjgonxghuhpngbyj
zxsqhuix ohejsk

“Ejhzuphrjschnyyhuaojshoeuohngojsrnjzhznoehenphtxoejs,hzenfehzjheuqhgxo
axsjpjjg,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Ngqjjq,hzjhajusjqhaxshenphynajk
I ohznoehsuonxguyhosjuotjgo,hugqhpju-iuoengbhnghoejhp ttjs,hejhsjbungjq
enphposjgboe,hugqhgxz,hichoejhqxfoxs’phuqrnfj,hNheurjhyjohenthbxhox
pfexxykhUgqhfjsoungychoejhfxtmugnxgpenmhxahpfexxyheupheuqhuhbxxqhjaajfo
xghent,hugqhejhnphmjsajfoychzjyy,hugqhtulngbhbxxqhmsxbsjppk”

“Zeuohuhangjhajyyxzhej’phbsxzg!hEj’phgxohPjscxdeuhgxz,hi ohw noj
a yy-ayjqbjqhPjsbjchUyjvcjrnofe!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hptnyngb,hup
ejhyxxljqhuohoejheugqpxtj,hisxuq-pex yqjsjqhyuqhnghiy jhfxuohugqhyxgb
osx pjsp,hzexhzuyljqhnghuyjsoychugqhfxganqjgoyckhOejhixchyxxljqhejuyoec
ugqhbxxq-e txsjqkhEjhixzjqhoxhenph gfyjhuphoxhuhposugbjs,hi o
sjfxbgndngbhent,hejhiy pejqhugqho sgjqhe ssnjqychuzuchasxthent,hup
oex behxaajgqjqhugqhnssnouojqhuohpxtjoengbkhOejhixchzjgoh mhoxhenp
auoejshugqheugqjqhenthuhgxojhxahoejhtuslphejheuqhbungjqhnghpfexxyk

“Zjyy,hoeuo’phrjschauns,”hpunqhenphauoejs,h“cx hfughbxk”

“Ej’phoenggjshugqhouyyjs,hugqheuphbsxzghx ohxahijngbhuhfenyqhngoxhu
ixc;hNhynljhoeuo,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Qxhcx hsjtjtijshtj?”

Oejhixchyxxljqhiuflhw nflychuohenph gfyjk

“Cjp,h_txghxgfyj_,”hejhugpzjsjq,hbyugfngbhuohenphauoejs,hugqhubunghej
yxxljqhqxzgfupok

Enph gfyjhfuyyjqhenthoxhent,hugqhoxxlhenpheugqk

“Zjyy,hugqhexzhusjhcx hbjoongbhxg?”hejhpunq,hzugongbhoxhouylhoxhent,
ugqhgxohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhpuck

Oejhixc,hiy pengbhugqhtulngbhgxhugpzjs,hfu onx pychqsjzhenpheugqhuzuck
UphpxxghuphPojmughUsluqcjrnofehyjohbxhenpheugq,hejhbyugfjqhqx ioa yyc
uohenphauoejs,hugqhynljhuhinsqhpjohasjj,hejhqusojqhx ohxahoejhsxxtk

UhcjusheuqhmuppjqhpngfjhoejhyupohontjhPjscxdeuheuqhpjjghenphtxoejsk
PngfjhoejghejheuqhejusqhgxoengbhtxsjhxahejskhUgqhnghoejhfx spjhxahoeuo
cjushejheuqhbxgjhoxhpfexxy,hugqhtuqjhasnjgqphutxgbhenphpfexxyajyyxzpk
Oejhqsjutphugqhtjtxsnjphxahenphtxoejs,hzenfeheuqhtuqjhenthnyyhuaojs
pjjngbhejs,hqnqhgxohxff mchenphoex beophgxzkhZejghoejchfutjhiuflhox
ent,hejhpo qnx pychqsxrjhoejthuzuc,hsjbusqngbhoejthuphpeutja yhugq
bnsynpe,hijyxzhoejhqnbgnochxahuhixchugqhuhpfexxyixckhEjhlgjzhoeuohenp
auoejshugqhtxoejshzjsjhpjmusuojqhichpxtjhw ussjy,hejhlgjzhoeuohejheuq
oxhsjtunghznoehenphauoejs,hugqhejhosnjqhoxhbjoh pjqhoxhoeuohnqjuk

Ejhqnpynljqhpjjngbhenph gfyj,hpxhynljhenphtxoejs,haxshnohfuyyjqh m
oexpjhtjtxsnjphxahzenfehejhzuphupeutjqkhEjhqnpynljqhnohuyyhoejhtxsjhup
asxthpxtjhzxsqphejheuqhfu beohuphejhzunojqhuohoejhpo qchqxxs,hugqhponyy
txsjhasxthoejhaufjphxahenphauoejshugqh gfyj,hejhb jppjqhoeuohoejcht po
eurjhijjghouylngbhxahenphtxoejskhUgqhoxhurxnqhfxgqjtgngbhoejhauoejs
znoehzexthejhynrjqhugqhxghzexthejhzuphqjmjgqjgo,hugq,huixrjhuyy,hox
urxnqhbnrngbhzuchoxhpjgontjgouynoc,hzenfehejhfxgpnqjsjqhpxhqjbsuqngb,
Pjscxdeuhosnjqhgxohoxhyxxlhuohenph gfyjhzexheuqhfxtjhoxhqnpo sihenp
mjufjhxahtngq,hugqhgxohoxhoenglhxahzeuohejhsjfuyyjqhoxhentk

I ohzejghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbxngbhx ohuaojshent,hpuzhenthxghoej
pounsp,hugqhfuyyngbhoxhent,hupljqhenthexzhejhpmjgohenphmyucontjhuo
pfexxy,hPjscxdeuhouyljqhtxsjhasjjychoxhenthuzuchasxthenphauoejs’p
msjpjgfjk

“Zjheurjhuhsunyzuchgxz,”hejhpunqhnghugpzjshoxhenph gfyj’phw jponxgk
“No’phynljhoenp,hqxhcx hpjj:hozxhpnohxghuhijgfe—oejc’sjhoejhmuppjgbjsp;
ugqhxgjhpougqph mhposunbeohxghoejhijgfekhUgqhuyyhusjheusgjppjqhoxhnohic
oejnshustphxshichoejnshijyop,hugqhoejchs ghoesx behuyyhoejhsxxtp—oej
qxxsphusjhyjaohxmjghijaxsjeugqkhZjyy,hugqhno’phmsjoocheusqhzxslhijngb
oejhfxgq foxs!”

“Oeuo’phoejhxgjhoeuohpougqp?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehngw nsjq,hptnyngbk

“Cjp,hcx hzugohmy flhaxshno,hugqhfyjrjsgjpphoxx,hjpmjfnuyychzejghoejc
poxmhuyyhxahuhp qqjg,hxshpxtjxgjhauyyphqxzgk”

“Cjp,hoeuoht pohijhuhpjsnx phtuoojs,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
zuofengbhznoehtx sga yhngojsjpohoejhjubjshjcjp,hynljhenphtxoejs’p;hgxo
fenyqnpehgxz—gxhyxgbjsha yychnggxfjgokhUgqhoex behejheuqhmsxtnpjq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehgxohoxhpmjulhxahUggu,hejhfx yqhgxohsjposung
entpjyak

“Qxhcx hsjtjtijshcx shtxoejs?”hejhupljqhp qqjgyck

“Gx,hNhqxg’o,”hPjscxdeuhpunqhw nflyckhEjhiy pejqhfsntpxg,hugqhenphaufj
fyx qjqhxrjskhUgqhenph gfyjhfx yqhbjohgxoengbhtxsjhx ohxahentkhEnp
o oxshax gqhenphm mnyhxghoejhpounsfupjheuyahughex shyuojs,hugqhaxshu
yxgbhzenyjhejhfx yqhgxohtuljhx ohzejoejshejhzuphnyy-ojtmjsjqhxshfscngbk

“Zeuohnphno?hNhjvmjfohcx he sohcx spjyahzejghcx hajyyhqxzg?”hpunqhoej
o oxskh“Nhoxyqhcx hnohzuphuhqugbjsx phbutjkhUgqhzjhpeuyyheurjhoxhpmjul
oxhoejhqnsjfoxsk”

“NahNheuqhe sohtcpjya,hgxixqchpex yqheurjhax gqhnohx o,hoeuo’p
fjsoungk”

“Zjyy,hzeuohnphno,hoejg?”

“Yjurjhtjhuyxgj!hNahNhsjtjtijs,hxshnahNhqxg’ohsjtjtijs?kkkhzeuo
i pngjpphnphnohxahenp?hZechpex yqhNhsjtjtijs?hYjurjhtjhnghmjufj!”hej
punq,huqqsjppngbhgxohenpho oxs,hi ohoejhzexyjhzxsyqk


Feumojsh20

PojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huph p uy,hqnqhgxohzupojhenphontjhnghMjojspi sbkhNg
Mjojspi sb,hijpnqjphi pngjpp,henphpnpojs’phqnrxsfj,hugqhenphfxrjojq
ummxngotjgo,hejhzugojq,huphejhuyzucphqnq,hoxhasjpejghentpjyah m,huphej
punq,huaojshoejht pongjpphxahTxpfxzk

Nghpmnojhxahnoph_fuaéphfeugougop_hugqhnophxtgni pjp,hTxpfxzhzuphcjohu
poubgugohixbkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehuyzucphajyohnokhUaojshynrngbhaxshpxtj
ontjhnghTxpfxz,hjpmjfnuyychnghfyxpjhsjyuonxgphznoehenphautnyc,hejhzup
fxgpfnx phxahuhqjmsjppnxghxahpmnsnopkhUaojshijngbhuhyxgbhontjhnghTxpfxz
znoex ohuhfeugbj,hejhsjufejqhuhmxngohzejghejhmxpnonrjychijbughoxhij
zxsscngbhentpjyahxrjshenphznaj’phnyy-e txshugqhsjmsxufejp,hxrjshenp
fenyqsjg’phejuyoehugqhjq fuonxg,hugqhoejhmjoochqjounyphxahenphxaanfnuy
zxsl;hjrjghoejhaufohxahijngbhnghqjiohzxssnjqhentkhI ohejheuqhxgychoxhbx
ugqhpouchuhynooyjhzenyjhnghMjojspi sb,hnghoejhfnsfyjhoejsjhnghzenfehej
txrjq,hzejsjhmjxmyjhynrjq—sjuyychynrjq—ngpojuqhxahrjbjouongbhuphng
Txpfxz,hugqhuyyhp fehnqjuphrugnpejqhugqhtjyojqhuzuchuohxgfj,hynljhzuv
ijaxsjhoejhansjkhEnphznaj?kkkhXgychoeuohquchejheuqhijjghouylngbhox
MsngfjhOfejofejgplckhMsngfjhOfejofejgplcheuqhuhznajhugqhautnyc,
bsxzg- mhmubjphnghoejhfxsmp,hkkkhugqhejheuqhugxoejshnyyjbnontuojhautnyc
xahfenyqsjghuypxkhOex behoejhanspohautnychzuphrjschgnfjhoxx,hMsngfj
Ofejofejgplchajyoheummnjshnghenphpjfxgqhautnyc;hugqhejh pjqhoxhouljhenp
jyqjpohpxghznoehenthoxhenphpjfxgqhautnyc,hugqhoxyqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe
oeuohejhoex beohnohbxxqhaxshenphpxg,hjgyusbngbhenphnqjupkhZeuohzx yq
eurjhijjghpunqhoxhoeuohnghTxpfxz?

Enphfenyqsjg?hNghMjojspi sbhfenyqsjghqnqhgxohmsjrjgohoejnshmusjgophasxt
jg.xcngbhynajkhOejhfenyqsjghzjsjhisx beoh mhnghpfexxyp,hugqhoejsjhzup
gxhosufjhxahoejhznyqhnqjuhoeuohmsjrunyjqhnghTxpfxz,hnghYrxr’p
ex pjexyq,haxshngpougfj,hoeuohuyyhoejhy v snjphxahynajhzjsjhaxshoej
fenyqsjg,hzenyjhoejhmusjgopheurjhgxoengbhi ohzxslhugqhugvnjockhEjsj
mjxmyjh gqjspoxxqhoeuohuhtughnphnghq ochix gqhoxhynrjhaxshentpjya,hup
jrjschtughxahf yo sjhpex yqhynrjk

Enphxaanfnuyhq onjp?hXaanfnuyhzxslhejsjhzuphgxohoejhponaa,hexmjyjpp
qs qbjschoeuohnohzuphnghTxpfxzkhEjsjhoejsjhzuphpxtjhngojsjpohng
xaanfnuyhynajkhUhfeugfjhtjjongb,huhpjsrnfjhsjgqjsjq,huheummchmesupj,hu
lguflhxahaufjonx phtntnfsc,hugqhuhtug’phfusjjshtnbeohijhtuqjhnghu
osnfjkhPxhnoheuqhijjghznoehIscugopjr,hzexthPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhtjo
oejhmsjrnx phquc,hugqhzexhzuphxgjhxahoejhenbejpoha gfonxgusnjphng
bxrjsgtjgohgxzkhOejsjhzuphpxtjhngojsjpohnghxaanfnuyhzxslhynljhoeuok

OejhMjojspi sbhuoono qjhxghmjf gnuschtuoojspheuqhughjpmjfnuyychpxxoengb
jaajfohxghPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhIusogcugplc,hzexht pohpmjgqhuohyjupo
anaochoex pugqhoxh. qbjhichoejhpocyjhejhynrjqhng,heuqhtuqjhug
ngojsjpongbhfxttjgohoejhquchijaxsjhxghoeuohp i.jfok

Uphoejchzjsjhouylngbhijaxsjhqnggjs,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpunqhox
Iusogcugplc:

“Cx ’sjhasnjgqyc,hNhaugfc,hznoehTxsqrngplc;hcx htnbeohqxhtjhuhaurxs:
puchuhzxsqhoxhent,hmyjupj,haxshtjkhOejsj’phughummxngotjgohNhpex yqhynlj
oxhbjo—pjfsjouschxahoejhubjgfckkkk”

“Xe,hNhpeug’ohsjtjtijshuyyhoeuo,hnahcx hojyyhnohoxhtjkkkkhI ohzeuo
mxppjppjphcx hoxheurjhoxhqxhznoehsunyzucphugqh.jzp?kkkhOuljhnohuphcx 
znyy,hno’phuhyxzhi pngjppk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehqnqhgxohpuchoxhIusogcugplchoeuohnohzuphuh“bsxzngb
oengb”—Iusogcugplchzx yqhgxoheurjh gqjspoxxqhoeuok

“Nhzugohoejhtxgjc,hN’rjhgxoengbhoxhynrjhxgk”

“Cx ’sjhynrngb,husjg’ohcx ?”

“Cjp,hi ohnghqjiok”

“Usjhcx ,hoex be?hEjurnyc?”hpunqhIusogcugplchpctmuoejonfuyyck

“Rjschejurnyc:hozjgochoex pugqk”

Iusogcugplchisxljhngoxhbxxq-e txsjqhyu beojsk

“Xe,hy flchajyyxz!”hpunqhejkh“Tchqjiophtx goh mhoxhuhtnyynxghugqhu
euya,hugqhN’rjhgxoengb,hugqhponyyhNhfughynrj,huphcx hpjj!”

UgqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpuzhoejhfxssjfogjpphxahoenphrnjzhgxohnghzxsqp
xgychi ohnghufo uyhaufokhDenruexrhxzjqhoesjjhe gqsjqhoex pugq,hugq
euqg’ohuhausoengbhoxhiyjpphentpjyahznoe,hugqhejhynrjq,hugqhnghpocyj
oxx!hFx gohLsnropxrhzuphfxgpnqjsjqhuhexmjyjpphfupjhichjrjscxgj,hugqhcjo
ejhljmohozxhtnposjppjpkhMjosxrplcheuqhs ghoesx behanrjhtnyynxgp,hugq
ponyyhynrjqhngh. pohoejhputjhpocyj,hugqhzuphjrjghuhtugubjshnghoej
angugfnuyhqjmusotjgohznoehuhpuyuschxahozjgochoex pugqkhI ohijpnqjp
oenp,hMjojspi sbheuqhmecpnfuyychughubsjjuiyjhjaajfohxghPojmug
UsluqcjrnofekhNohtuqjhenthcx gbjskhNghTxpfxzhejhpxtjontjphax gqhuhbsuc
eunshnghenphejuq,hqsxmmjqhupyjjmhuaojshqnggjs,hposjofejq,hzuyljqhpyxzyc
 mpounsp,hisjuoengbhejurnyc,hzuphixsjqhichoejhpxfnjochxahcx gbhzxtjg,
ugqhqnqhgxohqugfjhuohiuyypkhNghMjojspi sbhejhuyzucphajyohojghcjusp
cx gbjsk

EnphjvmjsnjgfjhnghMjojspi sbhzuphjvufoychzeuoheuqhijjghqjpfsnijqhoxhent
xghoejhmsjrnx phquchichMsngfjhMcxoshXiyxgplc,huhtughxahpnvoc,hzexheuq
. pohfxtjhiuflhasxthuisxuq:

“Zjhqxg’ohlgxzhoejhzuchoxhynrjhejsj,”hpunqhMcxoshXiyxgplckh“Nhpmjgohoej
p ttjshnghIuqjg,hugqhcx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhno,hNhajyohw nojhuhcx gbhtugk
Uohuhbyntmpjhxahuhmsjoochzxtug,htchoex beopkkkkhXgjhqngjphugqhqsnglphu
byupphxahzngj,hugqhajjyphposxgbhugqhsjuqchaxshugcoengbkhNhfutjhextjhox
S ppnu—euqhoxhpjjhtchznaj,hugq,hzeuo’phtxsj,hbxhoxhtchfx goschmyufj;
ugqhoejsj,hcx ’qheusqychijynjrjhno,hnghuhaxsognbeohN’qhbxohngoxhu
qsjppngbhbxzghugqhbnrjgh mhqsjppngbhaxshqnggjskhGjjqg’ohpuchNheuqhgx
oex beophyjaohaxshmsjoochzxtjgkhNhijfutjhw nojhughxyqhbjgoyjtugkhOejsj
zuphgxoengbhyjaohaxshtjhi ohoxhoenglhxahtchjojsguyhpuyruonxgkhNhzjgo
xaahoxhMusnp—Nhzuphuphsnbeohuphfx yqhijhuohxgfjk”

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehajyohjvufoychoejhqnaajsjgfjhoeuohMcxoshXiyxgplc
qjpfsnijqkhNghTxpfxzhejhqjbjgjsuojqhpxht fehoeuohnahejheuqheuqhoxhij
oejsjhaxshyxgbhoxbjoejs,hejhtnbeohnghbxxqhjusgjpoheurjhfxtjhox
fxgpnqjsngbhenphpuyruonxg;hnghMjojspi sbhejhajyohentpjyahuhtughxahoej
zxsyqhubungk

IjozjjghMsngfjpphIjopchOrjsplucuhugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoejsjheuqhyxgb
jvnpojqhsuoejshf snx phsjyuonxgpkhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehuyzucphaynsojq
znoehejshngh.jpo,hugqh pjqhoxhpuchoxhejs,huypxhngh.jpo,hoejhtxpo
 gpjjtychoengbp,hlgxzngbhoeuohgxoengbhqjynbeojqhejshpxht fekhOejhquc
uaojshenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehLusjgng,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohoxhpjj
ejs,hugqhajyohpxhcx oea yhoeuohnghoenph.jpongbhaynsouonxghugqhgxgpjgpj
ejhsjflyjppychzjgohpxhaushoeuohejhqnqhgxohlgxzhexzhoxhjvosnfuoj
entpjya,huph gy flnychejhzuphpxhaushasxthijngbhuoosufojqhichejshoeuohej
oex beohejshmxpnonrjychqnpubsjjuiyjkhZeuohtuqjhnoheusqhoxhfeugbjhoej
fxgrjspuonxghzuphoejhaufohoeuohejhzuphrjschuoosufonrjhoxhejskhPxhoeuo
ejhzuphfxgpnqjsuiychsjynjrjqhuohoejhussnruyhxahMsngfjpphTculucu,hzenfe
f ohpexsohoejnsh_oêoj-à-oêoj_k

“Ue,hpxhcx ’sjhejsj!”hpunqhpejhzejghpejhpuzhentkh“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohgjzp
xahcx shmxxshpnpojs?hCx hgjjqg’ohyxxlhuohtjhynljhoeuo,”hpejhuqqjqk
“Jrjshpngfjhoejc’rjhuyyho sgjqhubungpohejs,huyyhoexpjhzex’sjhuhoex pugq
ontjphzxspjhoeughpej,hN’rjhoex beohpejhqnqhuhrjschangjhoengbkhNhfug’o
axsbnrjhRsxgplchaxshgxohyjoongbhtjhlgxzhzejghpejhzuphnghMjojspi sbkhN’q
eurjhbxgjhoxhpjjhejshugqhbxgjhuix ohznoehejshjrjsczejsjkhMyjupjhbnrj
ejshtchyxrjkhFxtj,hojyyhtjhuix ohejsk”

“Cjp,hejshmxpnonxghnphrjschqnaanf yo;hpejkkkk”hijbughPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe,hnghoejhpntmynfnochxahenphejusohuffjmongbhuphpojsyngbhfxng
MsngfjpphTculucu’phzxsqph“ojyyhtjhuix ohejsk”hMsngfjpphTculucu
ngojss mojqhenthnttjqnuojyc,huphpejhuyzucphqnq,hugqhijbughouylngb
ejspjyak

“Pej’phqxgjhzeuohoejchuyyhqx,hjvfjmohtj—xgychoejchenqjhnokhI ohpej
zx yqg’ohijhqjfjnoa y,hugqhpejhqnqhuhangjhoengbkhUgqhpejhqnqhijoojs
ponyyhnghoesxzngbh mhoeuohfsudchisxoejs-ng-yuzhxahcx spkhCx ht po
jvf pjhtjkhJrjscixqch pjqhoxhpuchejhzuphpxhfyjrjs,hpxhrjschfyjrjs;hN
zuphoejhxgychxgjhoeuohpunqhejhzuphuhaxxykhGxzhoeuohej’phpxhoenflhznoe
YnqnuhNrugxrguhugqhYugqu ,hoejchuyyhpuchej’phfsudc,hugqhNhpex yqhmsjajs
gxohoxhubsjjhznoehjrjscixqc,hi ohoenphontjhNhfug’ohejymhnok”

“Xe,hqxhmyjupjhjvmyung,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe;h“zeuohqxjphnohtjug?
CjpojsquchNhzuphpjjngbhenthxghtchpnpojs’phijeuya,hugqhNhupljqhenthox
bnrjhtjhuhanguyhugpzjskhEjhburjhtjhgxhugpzjs,hugqhpunqhejhzx yqhoengl
nohxrjskhI ohoenphtxsgngb,hngpojuqhxahughugpzjs,hNhsjfjnrjqhug
ngrnouonxghasxthFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhaxshoenphjrjgngbk”

“Ue,hpxhoeuo’phno,hoeuo’phno!”hpunqhMsngfjpphTculucuhbyjja yyc,
“oejc’sjhbxngbhoxhuplhYugqu hzeuohej’phoxhpuck”

“UplhYugqu ?hZeuohaxs?hZexhxshzeuo’phYugqu ?”

“Zeuo!hcx hqxg’ohlgxzh. yjphYugqu ,h_yjhautj vh. yjphYugqu ,hyj
fyunsrxcugo_?hEj’phfsudchoxx,hi ohxghenthcx shpnpojs’phauojhqjmjgqpk
Pjjhzeuohfxtjphxahynrngbhnghoejhmsxrngfjp—cx hlgxzhgxoengbhuix o
ugcoengbkhYugqu ,hqxhcx hpjj,hzuphuh_fxttnp_hnghuhpexmhnghMusnp,hugqhej
zjgohoxhuhqxfoxs’p;hugqhnghoejhqxfoxs’phzunongbhsxxthejhajyyhupyjjm,
ugqhnghenphpyjjmhejhijbughbnrngbhuqrnfjhoxhuyyhoejhmuonjgopkhUgq
zxgqjsa yhuqrnfjhnohzup!hOejghoejhznajhxahC schTjyjqngplc—cx hlgxz,hoej
ngruynq?—ejusqhxahoenphYugqu ,hugqheuqhenthoxhpjjhejshe piugqkhUgqhej
f sjqhejshe piugq,hoex behNhfug’ohpuchoeuohNhpjjhejhqnqhentht fehbxxq,
axshej’ph. pohuphajjiyjhuhfsjuo sjhuphjrjshejhzup,hi ohoejchijynjrjqhng
ent,hugqhoxxlhenthuyxgbhznoehoejthugqhisx beohenthoxhS ppnukhEjsj
oejsj’phijjghuhbjgjsuyhs pehoxhent,hugqhej’phijb ghqxfoxsngbhjrjscxgjk
Ejhf sjqhFx gojpphIjdd ixru,hugqhpejhoxxlhp fehuhaugfchoxhenthoeuohpej
uqxmojqhentk”

“Uqxmojqhent?”

“Cjp,huphejshpxgkhEj’phgxohYugqu hugchtxsjhgxz,hi ohFx gohIjdd ixrk
Oeuo’phgjnoejshejsjhgxshoejsj,hoex be;hi ohYnqnu—N’thrjschaxgqhxahejs,
i ohpejheuphuhpfsjzhyxxpjhpxtjzejsj—euphyxpohejshejusohoxhoenphYugqu 
gxz,hugqhgxoengbhnphpjooyjqhgxzhnghejshex pjhxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe’p
znoex ohent,hugqhpxhcx shpnpojs’phauojhnphgxzhnghoejheugqphxahYugqu ,
_uynup_hFx gohIjdd ixrk”


Feumojsh21

Uaojshuhfumnouyhqnggjshugqhuhbsjuohqjuyhxahfxbgufhqs glhuo
Iusogcugplc’p,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hxgychuhynooyjhyuojshoeughoej
ummxngojqhontj,hzjgohnghoxhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu’pk

“Zexhjypjhnphznoehoejhfx gojpp?—uhAsjgfetug?”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehupljq
oejheuyy-mxsojs,huphejhbyugfjqhuohoejhautnynushxrjsfxuohxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehugqhuhw jjs,hsuoejshusoyjpp-yxxlngbhxrjsfxuohznoe
fyupmpk

“UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehLusjgnghugqhFx gohIjdd ixr,”hoejhmxsojshugpzjsjq
pjrjsjyck

“MsngfjpphTculucuhb jppjqhsnbeo,”hoex beohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,huphej
zjgoh mpounspkh“F snx p!hNohzx yqhijhw nojhuphzjyy,hoex be,hoxhbjohxg
asnjgqychojstphznoehejskhPejheuphnttjgpjhngay jgfjkhNahpejhzx yqhpuchu
zxsqhoxhMxtxsplc,hoejhoengbhzx yqhijhuhfjsoungock”

Nohzuphponyyhw nojhynbeohx o-xa-qxxsp,hi ohnghFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu’p
ynooyjhqsuzngb-sxxthoejhiyngqphzjsjhqsuzghugqhoejhyutmphynbeojqkhUohu
sx gqhouiyjh gqjshuhyutmhpuohoejhfx gojpphugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
ouylngbhpxaoyckhUhpexso,hoenggnpehtug,hrjschmuyjhugqheugqpxtj,hznoe
ajtngngjhenmphugqhlgxfl-lgjjqhyjbp,hznoehangjhisnyynugohjcjphugqhyxgb
eunshycngbhxghoejhfxyyushxahenphfxuo,hzuphpougqngbhuohoejhjgqhxahoej
sxxthbudngbhuohoejhmxsosunophxghoejhzuyykhUaojshbsjjongbhoejhyuqchxa
oejhex pjhugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehfx yqhgxo
sjpnpohbyugfngbhxgfjhtxsjhuohoejh glgxzghtugk

“Txgpnj shYugqu !”hoejhfx gojpphuqqsjppjqhenthznoehuhpxaogjpphugq
fu onxghoeuohntmsjppjqhXiyxgplckhUgqhpejhngosxq fjqhoejtk

Yugqu hyxxljqhsx gqhe ssnjqyc,hfutjh m,hugqhptnyngb,hyunqhenphtxnpo,
ynajyjppheugqhnghPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phx oposjofejqheugqhugq
nttjqnuojychzuyljqhuzuchugqhajyyhoxhbudngbhuohoejhmxsosunophubungkhOej
fx gojpphugqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehyxxljqhuohjufehxoejshpnbgnanfugoyck

“Nhuthrjschbyuqhoxhpjjhcx ,hmusonf yusychoxquc,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrgu,hmxngongbhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehoxhuhpjuohijpnqjhLusjgngk

“Nhngosxq fjqhcx hoxhenthuphYugqu ,”hpejhpunqhnghuhpxaohrxnfj,hbyugfngb
uohoejhAsjgfetughugqhubunghnttjqnuojychuaojshuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,
“i ohejhnphsjuyychFx gohIjdd ixr,huphcx ’sjhmsxiuiychuzusjkhXgychej
qxjphgxohynljhoejhonoyjk”

“Cjp,hNhejusqhpx,”hugpzjsjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe;h“oejchpuchej
fxtmyjojychf sjqhFx gojpphIjdd ixruk”

“Pejhzuphejsjhoxquc,hmxxshoengb!”hoejhfx gojpphpunq,ho sgngbhoxhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofekh“Oenphpjmusuonxghnphuza yhaxshejskhNo’php fehuhiyxzhox
ejs!”

“Ugqhejhmxpnonrjychnphbxngb?”hw jsnjqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofek

“Cjp,hej’phbxngbhoxhMusnpkhEjhejusqhuhrxnfjhcjpojsquc,”hpunqhFx gojpp
YnqnuhNrugxrgu,hyxxlngbhuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“Ue,huhrxnfj!”hsjmjuojqhXiyxgplc,hajjyngbhoeuohejht pohijhup
fnsf tpmjfohuphejhmxppniychfx yqhnghoenphpxfnjoc,hzejsjhpxtjoengb
mjf ynushzuphbxngbhxg,hxshzuphoxhbxhxg,hoxhzenfehejheuqhgxohoejhljck

Uhtxtjgo’phpnyjgfjhaxyyxzjq,huaojshzenfehFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hup
oex behummsxufengbhoejhtunghoxmnfhxahfxgrjspuonxg,hpunqhznoehuhangj
ptnyjhoxhXiyxgplc:

“N’rjhlgxzghcx haxshuhyxgbhzenyj,hugqhuthrjschbyuqhoxhtuljhuhfyxpjs
ufw ungougfjhznoehcx kh_Yjphutnphqjhgxphutnphpxgohgxphutnpk_hI ohoxhij
uhos jhasnjgq,hxgjht pohjgojshngoxhoejhpmnsno uyhpouojhxahxgj’phasnjgq,
ugqhNhajushoeuohcx husjhgxohqxngbhpxhnghoejhfupjhxahUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofekhCx h gqjspougqhzeuohNhtjug?”hpejhpunq,hynaongbhejshangj
mjgpnrjhjcjpk

“Nghmuso,hfx gojpp,hNh gqjspougqhoejhmxpnonxghxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofekkkk”hpunqhXiyxgplckhEurngbhgxhfyjushnqjuhzeuohoejchzjsj
ouylngbhuix o,hejhzugojqhoxhfxgangjhentpjyahoxhbjgjsuynonjpk

“Oejhfeugbjhnphgxohnghenphjvojsguyhmxpnonxg,”hFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu
punqhpojsgyc,haxyyxzngbhznoehjcjphxahyxrjhoejhanb sjhxahUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehuphejhbxoh mhugqhfsxppjqhxrjshoxhYugqu ;h“enphejusohnp
feugbjq,huhgjzhejusoheuphijjghrx fepuajqhent,hugqhNhajushcx hqxg’o
a yychummsjejgqhoejhfeugbjhoeuoheuphouljghmyufjhnghentk”

“Xe,hzjyy,hnghbjgjsuyhx oyngjphNhfughfxgfjnrjhoejhfeugbjkhZjheurj
uyzucphijjghasnjgqyc,hugqhgxzkkkk”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hsjpmxgqngb
znoehuhpctmuoejonfhbyugfjhoxhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahoejhfx gojpp,hugq
tjgouyychiuyugfngbhoejhw jponxghznoehzenfehxahoejhozxhtngnpojsphpejhzup
txpohngontuoj,hpxhuphoxhlgxzhuix ohzenfehoxhuplhejshoxhpmjulhaxshentk

“Oejhfeugbjhoeuoheuphouljghmyufjhnghenthfuggxohyjppjghenphyxrjhaxshenp
gjnbeixsp;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hoeuohfeugbjhfughxgychngojgpnachyxrjhnghenp
ejusokhI ohNhuthuasunqhcx hqxhgxoh gqjspougqhtjkhZxg’ohcx heurjhpxtj
oju?”hpejhpunq,hznoehejshjcjphngqnfuongbhoejhaxxotug,hzexhzupheugqngb
sx gqhojuhxghuhosuck

“Gxohw noj,hfx gojppkhXahfx spj,henphtnpaxso gjkkkk”

“Cjp,huhtnpaxso gjhzenfeheuphmsxrjqhoejhenbejpoheummngjpp,hzejghenp
ejusohzuphtuqjhgjz,hzuphanyyjqha yyhxahno,”hpejhpunq,hbudngbhznoehjcjp
a yyhxahyxrjhuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“NhqxhijynjrjhNhtnbeohuplhejshoxhpmjulhoxhixoehxahoejt,”hoex beohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofek

“Xe,hxahfx spj,hfx gojpp,”hejhpunq;h“i ohNhntubngjhp fehfeugbjphusjhu
tuoojshpxhmsnruojhoeuohgxhxgj,hjrjghoejhtxpohngontuojhasnjgq,hzx yq
fusjhoxhpmjulhxahoejtk”

“Xghoejhfxgosusc!hZjhx beohoxhpmjulhasjjychugqhejymhxgjhugxoejsk”

“Cjp,h gqx iojqychpx,hi ohoejsjhnphp fehuhqnaajsjgfjhxahfxgrnfonxgp,
ugqhijpnqjpkkkk”hpunqhXiyxgplchznoehuhpxaohptnyjk

“Oejsjhfughijhgxhqnaajsjgfjhzejsjhnohnphuhw jponxghxahexychos oek”

“Xe,hgx,hxahfx spj;hi okkkk”hugqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehmu pjqhng
fxga pnxgkhEjh gqjspoxxqhuohyupohoeuohoejchzjsjhouylngbhxahsjynbnxgk

“Nhaugfchejhznyyhauyyhupyjjmhnttjqnuojyc,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
nghuhzenpmjsha yyhxahtjugngb,hbxngbh mhoxhYnqnuhNrugxrguk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehyxxljqhsx gqkhYugqu hzuphpnoongbhuohoejhzngqxz,
yjugngbhxghenphjyixzhugqhoejhiuflhxahenphfeuns,henphejuqhqsxxmngbk
Gxonfngbhoeuohuyyhjcjphzjsjho sgjqhxghenthejhsunpjqhenphejuqhugqhptnyjq
uhptnyjhxahfenyqynljhusoyjppgjppk

“Qxg’ohouljhugchgxonfj,”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hugqhpejhynbeoychtxrjqhu
feunsh mhaxshUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofekh“Nheurjhxipjsrjqkkkk”hpejhzup
ijbnggngb,hzejghuhaxxotughfutjhngoxhoejhsxxthznoehuhyjoojskhYnqnu
Nrugxrguhsumnqychsughejshjcjphxrjshoejhgxoj,hugqhjvf pngbhejspjya,
zsxojhughugpzjshznoehjvosuxsqnguschsumnqnoc,heugqjqhnohoxhoejhtug,hugq
futjhiuflhoxhoejhouiyjkh“Nheurjhxipjsrjq,”hpejhzjgohxg,h“oeuohTxpfxz
mjxmyj,hjpmjfnuyychoejhtjg,husjhtxsjhngqnaajsjgohoxhsjynbnxghoeug
ugcxgjk”

“Xe,hgx,hfx gojpp,hNhoex beohTxpfxzhmjxmyjheuqhoejhsjm ouonxghxahijngb
oejhanstjpohnghoejhaunoe,”hugpzjsjqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofek

“I ohuphaushuphNhfughtuljhx o,hcx husjh gaxso guojychxgjhxahoej
ngqnaajsjgohxgjp,”hpunqhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,ho sgngbhoxhenthznoehu
zjuschptnyjk

“Exzhugcxgjhfughijhngqnaajsjgo!”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrguk

“Nhuthgxohpxht fehngqnaajsjgohxghoeuohp i.jfohuphNhuthzunongbhng
p pmjgpj,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hznoehenphtxpohqjmsjfuongbhptnyjk
“Nheusqychoenglhoeuohoejhontjhaxshp fehw jponxgpheuphfxtjhcjohaxshtjk”

UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhYnqnuhNrugxrguhyxxljqhuohjufehxoejsk

“Zjhfughgjrjshojyyhzejoejshoejhontjheuphfxtjhaxsh phxshgxo,”hpunq
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehpjrjsjyckh“Zjhx beohgxohoxhoenglhzejoejshzjhusj
sjuqchxshgxohsjuqckhBxq’phbsufjhnphgxohb nqjqhiche tughfxgpnqjsuonxgp:
pxtjontjphnohfxtjphgxohoxhoexpjhoeuohposnrjhaxshno,hugqhfxtjphoxhoexpj
oeuohusjh gmsjmusjq,hynljhPu yk”

“Gx,hNhijynjrjhnohzxg’ohijh. pohcjo,”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hzexheuqhijjg
tjugzenyjhzuofengbhoejhtxrjtjgophxahoejhAsjgfetugkhYugqu hbxoh mhugq
futjhoxhoejtk

“Qxhcx huyyxzhtjhoxhynpojg?”hejhupljqk

“Xe,hcjp;hNhqnqhgxohzugohoxhqnpo sihcx ,”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hbudngb
ojgqjsychuohent;h“pnohejsjhznoeh pk”

“Xgjheuphxgychgxohoxhfyxpjhxgj’phjcjphoxhpe ohx ohoejhynbeo,”hUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehzjgohxgk

“Ue,hnahcx hlgjzhoejheummngjpphzjhlgxz,hajjyngbhEnphmsjpjgfjhjrjshng
x shejusop!”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhznoehuhsumo sx phptnyjk

“I ohuhtughtuchajjyhentpjyah gzxsoechpxtjontjphoxhsnpjhoxhoeuohejnbeo,”
punqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hfxgpfnx phxahecmxfsnpchnghuqtnoongbhoenp
sjynbnx phejnbeo,hi ohuohoejhputjhontjh guiyjhoxhisngbhentpjyahox
uflgxzyjqbjhenphasjj-oenglngbhrnjzphijaxsjhuhmjspxghzex,hichuhpngbyj
zxsqhoxhMxtxsplc,htnbeohmsxf sjhenthoejhfxrjojqhummxngotjgok

“Oeuohnp,hcx htjughoeuohpnghljjmphenthiufl?”hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgukh“I o
oeuohnphuhauypjhnqjukhOejsjhnphgxhpnghaxshijynjrjsp,hoejnshpngheuphijjg
uoxgjqhaxskh_Musqxg,_”hpejhuqqjq,hyxxlngbhuohoejhaxxotug,hzexhfutjhng
ubunghznoehugxoejshyjoojskhPejhsjuqhnohugqhburjhuhrjsiuyhugpzjs:
“OxtxssxzhuohoejhBsugqhQ fejpp’p,hpuck”h“Axshoejhijynjrjshpnghnphgxo,”
pejhzjgohxgk

“Cjp,hi ohaunoehznoex ohzxslphnphqjuq,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
sjfuyyngbhoejhmesupjhasxthoejhfuojfenpt,hugqhxgychichenphptnyjhfyngbngb
oxhenphngqjmjgqjgfjk

“Oejsjhcx heurjhno—asxthoejhjmnpoyjhxahPokh.utjp,”hpunqhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofe,huqqsjppngbhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hznoehuhfjsoung
sjmsxufea ygjpphnghenphoxgjkhNohzuph gtnpouluiychuhp i.jfohoejcheuq
qnpf ppjqhtxsjhoeughxgfjhijaxsjkh“Zeuoheustheuphijjghqxgjhichoejhauypj
ngojsmsjouonxghxahoeuohmuppubj!hGxoengbhexyqphtjghiuflhasxthijynjahynlj
oeuohtnpngojsmsjouonxgkh‘Nheurjhgxohzxslp,hpxhNhfuggxohijynjrj,’hoex be
uyyhoejhzenyjhoeuohnphgxohpunqkhI ohoejhrjschxmmxpnojhnphpunqk”

“PosnrngbhaxshBxq,hpurngbhoejhpx yhichaupongb,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnu
Nrugxrgu,hznoehqnpb pojqhfxgojtmo,h“oexpjhusjhoejhfs qjhnqjuphxahx s
txglpkkkkhCjohoeuohnphgxzejsjhpunqkhNohnphaushpntmyjshugqhjupnjs,”hpej
uqqjq,hyxxlngbhuohXiyxgplchznoehoejhputjhjgfx subngbhptnyjhznoehzenfe
uohfx sohpejhjgfx subjqhcx oea yhtunqphxahexgxs,hqnpfxgfjsojqhichoej
gjzhp ssx gqngbphxahoejhfx sok

“ZjhusjhpurjqhichFesnpohzexhp aajsjqhaxsh pkhZjhusjhpurjqhichaunoe,”
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehfentjqhng,hznoehuhbyugfjhxahummsxruyhuohejs
zxsqpk

_“Rx phfxtmsjgjdhy’ugbyunp?”_hupljqhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hugqhsjfjnrngbhu
sjmychnghoejhuaanstuonrj,hpejhbxoh mhugqhijbughyxxlngbhoesx behuhpejya
xahixxlpk

“Nhzugohoxhsjuqhenth‘PuajhugqhEummc,’hxsh‘ gqjshoejhZngb,’”hpejhpunq,
yxxlngbhngw nsngbychuohLusjgngkhUgqhangqngbhoejhixxl,hugqhpnoongbhqxzg
ubunghnghejshmyufj,hpejhxmjgjqhnokh“No’phrjschpexsokhNghnohnphqjpfsnijq
oejhzuchichzenfehaunoehfughijhsjufejq,hugqhoejheummngjpp,huixrjhuyy
jusoeychiynpp,hznoehzenfehnohanyyphoejhpx ykhOejhijynjrjshfuggxohij
 geummchijfu pjhejhnphgxohuyxgjkhI ohcx hznyyhpjjk”hPejhzuph. po
pjooyngbhejspjyahoxhsjuqhzejghoejhaxxotughfutjhnghubungkh“Tuqutj
Ixsxdqngu?hOjyyhejs,hoxtxssxzhuohozxhx’fyxflkhCjp,”hpejhpunq,hm oongb
ejshangbjshnghoejhmyufjhnghoejhixxl,hugqhbudngbhijaxsjhejshznoehejs
angjhmjgpnrjhjcjp,h“oeuohnphexzhos jhaunoehufopkhCx hlgxzhTusnjhPugngu?
Cx hlgxzhuix ohejshosx iyj?hPejhyxpohejshxgychfenyqkhPejhzuphng
qjpmunskhUgqhzeuoheummjgjq?hPejhax gqhoenphfxtaxsojs,hugqhpejhoeuglp
BxqhgxzhaxshoejhqjuoehxahejshfenyqkhP fehnphoejheummngjpphaunoe
isngbp!”

“Xe,hcjp,hoeuohnphtxpokkkk”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hbyuqhoejchzjsj
bxngbhoxhsjuq,hugqhyjohentheurjhuhfeugfjhoxhfxyyjfohenphauf yonjpkh“Gx,
NhpjjhN’qhijoojshgxohuplhejshuix ohugcoengbhoxquc,”hejhoex beokh“Na
xgychNhfughbjohx ohxahoenphznoex ohm oongbhtchaxxohnghno!”

“Nohznyyhijhq yyhaxshcx ,”hpunqhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,huqqsjppngb
Yugqu ;h“cx hqxg’ohlgxzhJgbynpe,hi ohno’phpexsok”

“Xe,hNhpeuyyh gqjspougq,”hpunqhYugqu ,hznoehoejhputjhptnyj,hugqhej
fyxpjqhenphjcjpkhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhYnqnuhNrugxrguhjvfeugbjq
tjugngba yhbyugfjp,hugqhoejhsjuqngbhijbugk


Feumojsh22

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehajyohfxtmyjojychgxgmy ppjqhichoejhposugbjhouyl
zenfehejhzuphejusngbhaxshoejhanspohontjkhOejhfxtmyjvnochxahMjojspi sb,
uphuhs yj,heuqhuhpont yuongbhjaajfohxghent,hsx pngbhenthx ohxahenp
TxpfxzhpoubguonxgkhI ohejhynljqhoejpjhfxtmynfuonxgp,hugqh gqjspoxxq
oejthxgychnghoejhfnsfyjphejhlgjzhugqhzuphuohextjhngkhNghoejpj
 gautnynushp ssx gqngbphejhzuphm ddyjqhugqhqnpfxgfjsojq,hugqhfx yqhgxo
bjohenphijusngbpkhUphejhynpojgjqhoxhFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,huzusjhxa
oejhiju ona y,husoyjpp—xshmjseumphusoa y,hejhfx yqhgxohqjfnqj
zenfe—jcjphxahYugqu hanvjqh mxghent,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehijbughoxhij
fxgpfnx phxahuhmjf ynushejurngjpphnghenphejuqk

Oejhtxpohngfxgbs x phnqjuphzjsjhnghfxga pnxghnghenphejuqkh“TusnjhPugngu
nphbyuqhejshfenyq’phqjuqkkkkhExzhbxxqhuhptxljhzx yqhijhgxz!kkkhOxhij
purjq,hxgjhgjjqhxgychijynjrj,hugqhoejhtxglphqxg’ohlgxzhexzhoejhoengb’p
oxhijhqxgj,hi ohFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguhqxjphlgxzkkkkhUgqhzechnphtc
ejuqhpxhejurc?hNphnohoejhfxbguf,hxshuyyhoenphijngbhpxhw jjs?hUgczuc,hN
augfchN’rjhqxgjhgxoengbh gp nouiyjhpxhauskhI ohugczuc,hnohzxg’ohqxhox
uplhejshgxzkhOejchpuchoejchtuljhxgjhpuchxgj’phmsucjspkhNhxgychexmjhoejc
zxg’ohtuljhtj!hOeuo’yyhijhoxxhntijfnyjkhUgqhzeuohpo aahnohnphpej’p
sjuqngb!hi ohpejheuphuhbxxqhuffjgokhYugqu —Ijdd ixr—zeuo’phejhIjdd ixr
axs?”hUyyhuohxgfjhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehijfutjhuzusjhoeuohenphyxzjsh.uz
zuph gfxgosxyyuiychaxstngbhuhcuzgkhEjhm yyjqhenphzenpljsphoxhfxrjshoej
cuzg,hugqhpexxlhentpjyahoxbjoejskhI ohpxxghuaojshejhijfutjhuzusjhoeuo
ejhzuphqsxmmngbhupyjjmhugqhxghoejhrjschmxngohxahpgxsngbkhEjhsjfxrjsjq
entpjyahuohoejhrjschtxtjgohzejghoejhrxnfjhxahFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu
zuphpucngbh“ej’phupyjjmk”hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehpousojqhznoehqnptuc,
ajjyngbhb nyochugqhfu beokhI ohejhzuphsjupp sjqhuohxgfjhichpjjngbhoeuo
oejhzxsqph“ej’phupyjjm”hsjajssjqhgxohoxhent,hi ohoxhYugqu khOej
AsjgfetughzuphupyjjmhuphzjyyhuphPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhI ohPojmug
Usluqcjrnofe’phijngbhupyjjmhzx yqheurjhxaajgqjqhoejt,huphejhoex beo
(oex behjrjghoenp,hejhoex beo,htnbeohgxohijhpx,huphjrjscoengbhpjjtjqhpx
w jjs),hzenyjhYugqu ’phijngbhupyjjmhqjynbeojqhoejthjvosjtjyc,
jpmjfnuyychFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk

_“Txghutn,”_hpunqhYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hfusja yychexyqngbhoejhaxyqphxahejs
pnylhbxzghpxhuphgxohoxhs poyj,hugqhnghejshjvfnojtjgohfuyyngbhLusjgng
gxohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hi oh_“txghutn,”h“qxggjd-y nhyuhtungkhRx p
rxcjd?_hPe!”hpejhenppjqhuohoejhaxxotughuphejhfutjhnghubungkh“Gxohuo
extjk”

OejhAsjgfetughzuphupyjjm,hxshmsjojgqngbhoxhijhupyjjm,hznoehenphejuqhxg
oejhiuflhxahenphfeuns,hugqhenphtxnpoheugq,huphnohyuchxghenphlgjj,htuqj
aungohtxrjtjgop,huphoex behoscngbhoxhfuofehpxtjoengbkhUyjvjc
Uyjvugqsxrnofehbxoh m,hosnjqhoxhtxrjhfusja yyc,hi ohpo tiyjqhubungpo
oejhouiyj,hzjgoh mhugqhyunqhenpheugqhnghoejhAsjgfetug’pheugqkhPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehbxoh mhoxx,hugqhxmjgngbhenphjcjphznqj,hoscngbhoxhzulj
entpjyah mhnahejhzjsjhupyjjm,hejhyxxljqhanspohuohxgjhugqhoejghuohoej
xoejskhNohzuphuyyhsjuykhPojmughUsluqcjrnofehajyohoeuohenphejuqhzup
bjoongbhzxspjhugqhzxspjk

“_W jhyuhmjspxggjhw nhjpohussnréjhyuhqjsgnèsj,hfjyyjhw nhqjtugqj,
w ’jyyjhpxsoj!hW ’jyyjhpxsoj!_”husonf yuojqhoejhAsjgfetug,hznoex o
xmjgngbhenphjcjpk

“_Rx pht’jvf pjsjd,htunphrx phrxcjdkkkkhSjrjgjdhrjsphqnvhej sjp,hjgfxsj
tnj vhqjtungk_”

“_W ’jyyjhpxsoj!_”hsjmjuojqhoejhAsjgfetughntmuonjgoyck

“_F’jpohtxn,hg’jpo-fjhmup?_”hUgqhsjfjnrngbhughugpzjshnghoej
uaanstuonrj,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,haxsbjoongbhoejhaurxshejheuqhtjugohox
uplhxahYnqnuhNrugxrgu,hugqhaxsbjoongbhenphpnpojs’phuaaunsp,hfusngbhaxs
gxoengb,hi ohanyyjqhznoehoejhpxyjhqjpnsjhoxhbjohuzuchuphpxxghup
mxppniyj,hzjgohx ohxghonmoxjhugqhsughx ohngoxhoejhposjjohuphoex behasxt
uhmyub j-posnfljghex pjkhAxshuhyxgbhzenyjhejhfeuoojqhugqh.xljqhznoehenp
fui-qsnrjs,hoscngbhoxhsjfxrjshenphpmnsnopk

UohoejhAsjgfehoejuojshzejsjhejhussnrjqhaxshoejhyupohufo,hugqhuaojszusqp
uohoejhOuoushsjpou sugohuaojshenphfeutmubgj,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofehajyohu
ynooyjhsjasjpejqhnghoejhuotxpmejsjhejhzuph pjqhoxkhI ohponyyhejhajyo
w nojh gynljhentpjyahuyyhoeuohjrjgngbk

XghbjoongbhextjhoxhMcxoshXiyxgplc’p,hzejsjhejhzuphpoucngb,hPojmug
Usluqcjrnofehax gqhuhgxojhasxthIjopckhPejhzsxojhoxhenthoeuohpejhzup
rjschugvnx phoxhangnpehoejnshngojss mojqhfxgrjspuonxg,hugqhijbbjqhent
oxhfxtjhgjvohquckhEjheuqhpfusfjychsjuqhoenphgxoj,hugqhasxzgjqhuohnop
fxgojgop,hzejghejhejusqhijyxzhoejhmxgqjsx phosutmhxahoejhpjsrugop,
fusscngbhpxtjoengbhejurck

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzjgohx ohoxhyxxlkhNohzuphoejhsj. rjguojqhMcxos
XiyxgplckhEjhzuphpxhqs glhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohzuylh mpounsp;hi ohejhoxyq
oejthoxhpjohenthxghenphyjbphzejghejhpuzhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hugq
fyngbngbhoxhent,hzuyljqhznoehenthngoxhenphsxxthugqhoejsjhijbughojyyngb
enthexzhejheuqhpmjgohoejhjrjgngb,hugqhajyyhupyjjmhqxngbhpxk

PojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphnghrjschyxzhpmnsnop,hzenfeheummjgjqhsusjychznoe
ent,hugqhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhejhfx yqhgxohbxhoxhpyjjmkhJrjscoengbhejhfx yq
sjfuyyhoxhenphtngq,hjrjscoengbhzuphqnpb pongb;hi ohtxpohqnpb pongbhxa
uyy,huphnahnohzjsjhpxtjoengbhpeutja y,hzuphoejhtjtxschxahoejhjrjgngbhej
euqhpmjgohuohFx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu’pk

GjvohquchejhsjfjnrjqhasxthUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehuhanguyhugpzjs,
sja pngbhoxhbsugohUggu’phqnrxsfj,hugqhejh gqjspoxxqhoeuohoenphqjfnpnxg
zuphiupjqhxghzeuohoejhAsjgfetugheuqhpunqhnghenphsjuyhxshmsjojgqjq
osugfjk


Feumojsh23

Nghxsqjshoxhfusschoesx behugch gqjsoulngbhnghautnychynaj,hoejsjht po
gjfjppusnychijhjnoejshfxtmyjojhqnrnpnxghijozjjghoejhe piugqhugqhznaj,
xshyxrngbhubsjjtjgokhZejghoejhsjyuonxgphxahuhfx myjhusjhrufnyyuongbhugq
gjnoejshxgjhoengbhgxshoejhxoejs,hgxhpxsohxahjgojsmsnpjhfughij
 gqjsouljgk

Tugchautnynjphsjtunghaxshcjusphnghoejhputjhmyufj,hoex behixoehe piugq
ugqhznajhusjhpnflhxahno,hpntmychijfu pjhoejsjhnphgjnoejshfxtmyjoj
qnrnpnxghgxshubsjjtjgohijozjjghoejtk

IxoehRsxgplchugqhUgguhajyohynajhnghTxpfxzhngp mmxsouiyjhnghoejhejuohugq
q po,hzejghoejhpmsngbhp gpengjhzuphaxyyxzjqhichoejhbyusjhxahp ttjs,hugq
uyyhoejhosjjphnghoejhix yjrusqpheuqhyxgbhpngfjhijjghngha yyhyjua,hugq
oejhyjurjphzjsjhfxrjsjqhznoehq pokhI ohoejchqnqhgxohbxhiuflhox
Rxdqrndejgplxj,huphoejcheuqhussugbjqhoxhqxhyxgbhijaxsj;hoejchzjgohxg
poucngbhnghTxpfxz,hoex behoejchixoehyxuoejqhno,hijfu pjhxahyuojhoejsj
euqhijjghgxhubsjjtjgohijozjjghoejtk

Oejhnssnouinynochoeuohljmohoejthumusoheuqhgxhjvojsguyhfu pj,hugqhuyy
jaaxsophoxhfxtjhoxhugh gqjspougqngbhngojgpnanjqhno,hngpojuqhxahsjtxrngb
nokhNohzuphughnggjshnssnouonxg,hbsx gqjqhnghejshtngqhxghoejhfxgrnfonxg
oeuohenphyxrjheuqhbsxzghyjpp;hnghenp,hxghsjbsjohoeuohejheuqhm ohentpjya
axshejshpuljhnghuhqnaanf yohmxpnonxg,hzenfehpej,hngpojuqhxahynbeojgngb,
tuqjhponyyhtxsjhqnaanf yokhGjnoejshxahoejthburjha yyh oojsugfjhoxhoejns
pjgpjhxahbsnjrugfj,hi ohoejchfxgpnqjsjqhjufehxoejshnghoejhzsxgb,hugq
osnjqhxghjrjschmsjojvohoxhmsxrjhoenphoxhxgjhugxoejsk

Nghejshjcjphoejhzexyjhxahent,hznoehuyyhenpheuinop,hnqjup,hqjpnsjp,hznoe
uyyhenphpmnsno uyhugqhmecpnfuyhojtmjsutjgo,hzuphxgjhoengb—yxrjhaxs
zxtjg,hugqhoeuohyxrj,hpejhajyo,hx beohoxhijhjgonsjychfxgfjgosuojqhxg
ejshuyxgjkhOeuohyxrjhzuphyjpp;hfxgpjw jgoyc,huphpejhsjupxgjq,hejht po
eurjhosugpajssjqhmusohxahenphyxrjhoxhxoejshzxtjghxshoxhugxoejs
zxtug—ugqhpejhzuph.juyx pkhPejhzuph.juyx phgxohxahugchmusonf yushzxtug
i ohxahoejhqjfsjupjhxahenphyxrjkhGxoheurngbhbxohughxi.jfohaxshejs
.juyx pc,hpejhzuphxghoejhyxxlx ohaxshnokhUohoejhpynbeojpohengohpej
osugpajssjqhejsh.juyx pchasxthxgjhxi.jfohoxhugxoejskhUohxgjhontjhpej
zuph.juyx phxahoexpjhyxzhzxtjghznoehzexthejhtnbeohpxhjupnychsjgjzhenp
xyqhiufejyxshonjp;hoejghpejhzuph.juyx phxahoejhpxfnjochzxtjghejhtnbeo
tjjo;hoejghpejhzuph.juyx phxahoejhntubnguschbnsyhzexthejhtnbeohzugohox
tussc,haxshzexpjhpuljhejhzx yqhisjulhznoehejskhUgqhoenphyupohaxsthxa
.juyx pchoxso sjqhejshtxpohxahuyy,hjpmjfnuyychuphejheuqh gzusnychoxyq
ejs,hnghuhtxtjgohxahasuglgjpp,hoeuohenphtxoejshlgjzhenthpxhynooyjhoeuo
pejheuqheuqhoejhu qufnochoxhoschugqhmjsp uqjhenthoxhtusschoejhcx gb
MsngfjpphPxsxlnguk

Ugqhijngbh.juyx phxahent,hUgguhzuphngqnbgugohubungpohenthugqhax gq
bsx gqphaxshngqnbguonxghnghjrjscoengbkhAxshjrjscoengbhoeuohzup
qnaanf yohnghejshmxpnonxghpejhiyutjqhentkhOejhubxgndngbhfxgqnonxghxa
p pmjgpjhpejheuqhmuppjqhnghTxpfxz,hoejhousqngjpphugqhngqjfnpnxghxa
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hejshpxyno qj—pejhm ohnohuyyhqxzghoxhentkhNahej
euqhyxrjqhejshejhzx yqheurjhpjjghuyyhoejhinoojsgjpphxahejshmxpnonxg,
ugqhzx yqheurjhsjpf jqhejshasxthnokhAxshejshijngbhnghTxpfxzhugqhgxohng
oejhfx gosc,hejhzuphoxhiyutjhoxxkhEjhfx yqhgxohynrjhi snjqhnghoej
fx goschuphpejhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhqxkhEjht poheurjhpxfnjoc,hugqhejheuq
m ohejshnghoenphuza yhmxpnonxg,hoejhinoojsgjpphxahzenfehejhzx yqhgxo
pjjkhUgqhubung,hnohzuphenphau yohoeuohpejhzuphaxsjrjshpjmusuojqhasxt
ejshpxgk

Jrjghoejhsusjhtxtjgophxahojgqjsgjpphoeuohfutjhasxthontjhoxhontjhqnqhgxo
pxxoejhejs;hnghenphojgqjsgjpphgxzhpejhpuzhuhpeuqjhxahfxtmyufjgfc,hxa
pjya-fxganqjgfj,hzenfeheuqhgxohijjghxahxyq,hugqhzenfehjvupmjsuojqhejsk

Nohzuphq plkhUgguhzuphuyxgj,hugqhzunongbhaxshenthoxhfxtjhiuflhasxthu
iufejyxshqnggjskhPejhzuyljqh mhugqhqxzghnghenphpo qch(oejhsxxthzejsj
oejhgxnpjhasxthoejhposjjohzuphyjupohejusq),hugqhoex beohxrjshjrjsc
qjounyhxahoejnshcjpojsquc’phw ussjykhBxngbhiuflhasxthoej
zjyy-sjtjtijsjq,hxaajgpnrjhzxsqphxahoejhw ussjyhoxhzeuoheuqhijjghoej
bsx gqhxahno,hpejhussnrjqhuohyupohuohnophxsnbngkhAxshuhyxgbhzenyjhpej
fx yqheusqychijynjrjhoeuohoejnshqnppjgpnxgheuqhusnpjghasxthu
fxgrjspuonxghpxhngxaajgpnrj,hxahpxhynooyjhtxtjgohoxhjnoejskhI ohpxhno
ufo uyycheuqhijjgkhNohuyyhusxpjhasxthenphyu bengbhuohoejhbnsyp’henbe
pfexxyp,hqjfyusngbhoejchzjsjh pjyjpp,hzenyjhpejhqjajgqjqhoejtkhEjheuq
pmxljghpynbeongbychxahzxtjg’phjq fuonxghnghbjgjsuy,hugqheuqhpunqhoeuo
Euggue,hUggu’phJgbynpehmsxoébéj,heuqhgxohoejhpynbeojpohgjjqhoxhlgxz
ugcoengbhxahmecpnfpk

OenphnssnouojqhUggukhPejhpuzhnghoenphuhfxgojtmo x phsjajsjgfjhoxhejs
xff muonxgpkhUgqhpejhijoex beohejshxahuhmesupjhoxhmuchenthiuflhaxshoej
munghejheuqhbnrjghejskh“Nhqxg’ohjvmjfohcx hoxh gqjspougqhtj,htc
ajjyngbp,huphugcxgjhzexhyxrjqhtjhtnbeo,hi ohpntmyjhqjynfufchNhqnq
jvmjfo,”hpejhpunqk

Ugqhejheuqhufo uyychay pejqhznoehrjvuonxg,hugqheuqhpunqhpxtjoengb
 gmyjupugokhPejhfx yqhgxohsjfuyyhejshugpzjs,hi ohuohoeuohmxngo,hznoehug
 gtnpouluiyjhqjpnsjhoxhzx gqhejshoxx,hejheuqhpunq:

“Nhajjyhgxhngojsjpohnghcx shngauo uonxghxrjshoenphbnsy,hoeuo’phos j,
ijfu pjhNhpjjhno’ph gguo suyk”

Oejhfs jyochznoehzenfehejhpeuoojsjqhoejhzxsyqhpejheuqhi nyoh mhaxs
ejspjyahpxhyuixsnx pychoxhjguiyjhejshoxhjgq sjhejsheusqhynaj,hoej
ng. ponfjhznoehzenfehejheuqhuff pjqhejshxahuaajfouonxg,hxa
usonanfnuynoc,husx pjqhejsk

“Nhuthrjschpxsschoeuohgxoengbhi ohzeuo’phfxuspjhugqhtuojsnuyhnp
fxtmsjejgpniyjhugqhguo suyhoxhcx ,”hpejhpunqhugqhzuyljqhx ohxahoej
sxxtk

Zejghejheuqhfxtjhnghoxhejshcjpojsquchjrjgngb,hoejcheuqhgxohsjajssjqhox
oejhw ussjy,hi ohixoehajyohoeuohoejhw ussjyheuqhijjghptxxoejqhxrjs,hi o
zuphgxohuohughjgqk

Oxquchejheuqhgxohijjghuohextjhuyyhquc,hugqhpejhajyohpxhyxgjychugq
zsjofejqhnghijngbhxghiuqhojstphznoehenthoeuohpejhzugojqhoxhaxsbjohno
uyy,hoxhaxsbnrjhent,hugqhijhsjfxgfnyjqhznoehent;hpejhzugojqhoxhoesxz
oejhiyutjhxghejspjyahugqhoxh. ponachentk

“NhuthtcpjyahoxhiyutjkhN’thnssnouiyj,hN’thngpugjych.juyx pkhNhznyyhtulj
noh mhznoehent,hugqhzj’yyhbxhuzuchoxhoejhfx gosc;hoejsjhNhpeuyyhijhtxsj
uohmjufjk”

“ gguo suy!”hPejhp qqjgychsjfuyyjqhoejhzxsqhoeuoheuqhpo gbhejshtxpohxa
uyy,hgxohpxht fehoejhzxsqhnopjyahuphoejhngojgohoxhzx gqhejshznoehzenfe
nohzuphpunqkh“Nhlgxzhzeuohejhtjugo;hejhtjugo— gguo suy,hgxohyxrngbhtc
xzghqu beojs,hoxhyxrjhugxoejshmjspxg’phfenyqkhZeuohqxjphejhlgxzhxahyxrj
axshfenyqsjg,hxahtchyxrjhaxshPjscxdeu,hzexthN’rjhpufsnanfjqhaxshent?
I ohoeuohznpehoxhzx gqhtj!hGx,hejhyxrjphugxoejshzxtug,hnoht pohijhpxk”

Ugqhmjsfjnrngbhoeuo,hzenyjhoscngbhoxhsjbunghejshmjufjhxahtngq,hpejheuq
bxgjhsx gqhoejhputjhfnsfyjhoeuohpejheuqhijjghsx gqhpxhxaojghijaxsj,hugq
euqhfxtjhiuflhoxhejshaxstjshpouojhxahjvupmjsuonxg,hpejhzuphexssnanjqhuo
ejspjyakh“Fughnohijhntmxppniyj?hFughnohijhijcxgqhtjhoxhfxgosxyhtcpjya?”
pejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hugqhijbughubunghasxthoejhijbnggngbkh“Ej’p
os oea y,hej’phexgjpo,hejhyxrjphtjkhNhyxrjhent,hugqhnghuhajzhqucphoej
qnrxsfjhznyyhfxtjkhZeuohtxsjhqxhNhzugo?hNhzugohmjufjhxahtngqhugqhos po,
ugqhNhznyyhouljhoejhiyutjhxghtcpjyakhCjp,hgxzhzejghejhfxtjphng,hNhznyy
ojyyhenthNhzuphzsxgb,hoex behNhzuphgxohzsxgb,hugqhzjhznyyhbxhuzuc
oxtxssxzk”

Ugqhoxhjpfumjhoenglngbhugchtxsj,hugqhijngbhxrjsfxtjhichnssnouinynoc,
pejhsugb,hugqhxsqjsjqhoejhixvjphoxhijhisx beoh mhaxshmuflngbhoejns
oengbphaxshoejhfx gosck

Uohojghx’fyxflhRsxgplchfutjhngk


Feumojsh24

“Zjyy,hzuphnohgnfj?”hpejhupljq,hfxtngbhx ohoxhtjjohenthznoehuhmjgnojgo
ugqhtjjlhjvmsjppnxgk

“. pohuph p uy,”hejhugpzjsjq,hpjjngbhuohuhbyugfjhoeuohpejhzuphnghxgjhxa
ejshbxxqhtxxqpkhEjhzuph pjqhichgxzhoxhoejpjhosugpnonxgp,hugqhejhzup
musonf yusychbyuqhoxhpjjhnohoxquc,huphejhzuphnghuhpmjfnuyychbxxqhe txs
entpjyak

“ZeuohqxhNhpjj?hFxtj,hoeuo’phbxxq!”hejhpunq,hmxngongbhoxhoejhixvjphng
oejhmuppubjk

“Cjp,hzjht pohbxkhNhzjgohx ohaxshuhqsnrj,hugqhnohzuphpxhangjhNhyxgbjq
oxhijhnghoejhfx gosckhOejsj’phgxoengbhoxhljjmhcx ,hnphoejsj?”

“No’phoejhxgjhoengbhNhqjpnsjkhN’yyhijhiuflhqnsjfoyc,hugqhzj’yyhouylhno
xrjs;hNhxgychzugohoxhfeugbjhtchfxuokhXsqjshpxtjhojuk”

Ugqhejhzjgohngoxhenphsxxtk

Oejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhtxsonacngbhnghoejhzuchejheuqhpunqh“Fxtj,hoeuo’p
bxxq,”huphxgjhpucphoxhuhfenyqhzejghnohyjurjphxaahijngbhgu beoc,hugq
ponyyhtxsjhtxsonacngbhzuphoejhfxgosupohijozjjghejshmjgnojgohugqhenp
pjya-fxganqjgohoxgj;hugqhaxshxgjhngpougohpejhajyohoejhy pohxahposnaj
snpngbh mhnghejshubung,hi ohtulngbhughjaaxsohpejhfxgw jsjqhno,hugqhtjo
Rsxgplchuphbxxq-e txsjqychuphijaxsjk

Zejghejhfutjhnghpejhoxyqhent,hmusoychsjmjuongbhmesupjphpejheuqhmsjmusjq
ijaxsjeugq,hexzhpejheuqhpmjgohoejhquc,hugqhejshmyugphaxshbxngbhuzuck

“Cx hlgxzhnohfutjhoxhtjhuytxpohynljhughngpmnsuonxg,”hpejhpunqkh“Zec
zunohejsjhaxshoejhqnrxsfj?hZxg’ohnohijh. pohoejhputjhnghoejhfx gosc?hN
fug’ohzunohugchyxgbjs!hNhqxg’ohzugohoxhbxhxghexmngb,hNhqxg’ohzugohox
ejushugcoengbhuix ohoejhqnrxsfjkhNheurjhtuqjh mhtchtngqhnohpeuyyhgxo
eurjhugchtxsjhngay jgfjhxghtchynajkhQxhcx hubsjj?”

“Xe,hcjp!”hejhpunq,hbyugfngbh gjupnychuohejshjvfnojqhaufjk

“Zeuohqnqhcx hqx?hZexhzuphoejsj?”hpejhpunq,huaojshuhmu pjk

Rsxgplchtjgonxgjqhoejhgutjphxahoejhb jpopkh“Oejhqnggjshzuphanspohsuoj,
ugqhoejhixuohsufj,hugqhnohzuphuyyhmyjupugohjgx be,hi ohnghTxpfxzhoejc
fughgjrjshqxhugcoengbhznoex ohpxtjoengbh_snqnf yj_khUhyuqchxahuhpxso
ummjusjqhxghoejhpfjgj,hojufejshxahpznttngbhoxhoejhW jjghxahPzjqjg,hugq
burjh phughjveninonxghxahejshplnyyk”

“Exz?hqnqhpejhpznt?”hupljqhUggu,hasxzgngbk

“Nghughuip sqhsjqh_fxpo tjhqjhguouonxg;_hpejhzuphxyqhugqhenqjx phoxxk
Pxhzejghpeuyyhzjhbx?”

“Zeuohughuip sqhaugfc!hZec,hqnqhpejhpznthnghpxtjhpmjfnuyhzuc,hoejg?”
punqhUggu,hgxohugpzjsngbk

“Oejsjhzuphuipxy ojychgxoengbhnghnokhOeuo’ph. pohzeuohNhpuc,hnohzup
uza yychpo mnqkhZjyy,hoejg,hzejghqxhcx hoenglhxahbxngb?”

Ugguhpexxlhejshejuqhuphoex behoscngbhoxhqsnrjhuzuchpxtjh gmyjupugo
nqjuk

“Zejg?hZec,hoejhpxxgjshoejhijoojs!hIchoxtxssxzhzjhpeug’ohijhsjuqckhOej
quchuaojshoxtxssxzk”

“Cjphkkkhxe,hgx,hzunohuhtng oj!hOejhquchuaojshoxtxssxz’phP gquc,hNheurj
oxhijhuohtutug’p,”hpunqhRsxgplc,hjtiussuppjq,hijfu pjhuphpxxghuphej
 oojsjqhenphtxoejs’phgutjhejhzuphuzusjhxahejshngojgo,hp pmnfnx phjcjpk
Enphjtiussupptjgohfxganstjqhejshp pmnfnxgkhPejhay pejqhexoychugqhqsjz
uzuchasxthentkhNohzuphgxzhgxohoejhW jjghxahPzjqjg’phpznttngb-tnposjpp
zexhanyyjqhUggu’phntubnguonxg,hi ohoejhcx gbhMsngfjpphPxsxlngukhPejhzup
poucngbhnghuhrnyyubjhgjushTxpfxzhznoehFx gojpphRsxgplucuk

“Fug’ohcx hbxhoxtxssxz?”hpejhpunqk

“Zjyy,hgx!hOejhqjjqphugqhoejhtxgjchaxshoejhi pngjpphN’thbxngbhoejsjhaxs
Nhfug’ohbjohichoxtxssxz,”hejhugpzjsjqk

“Nahpx,hzjhzxg’ohbxhuohuyyk”

“I ohzechpx?”

“NhpeuyyhgxohbxhyuojskhTxgquchxshgjrjs!”

“Zeuohaxs?”hpunqhRsxgplc,huphoex behnghutudjtjgokh“Zec,hoejsj’phgx
tjugngbhnghno!”

“Oejsj’phgxhtjugngbhnghnohoxhcx ,hijfu pjhcx hfusjhgxoengbhaxshtjkhCx 
qxg’ohfusjhoxh gqjspougqhtchynajkhOejhxgjhoengbhoeuohNhfusjqhaxshejsj
zuphEugguekhCx hpuchno’phuaajfouonxgkhZec,hcx hpunqhcjpojsquchoeuohN
qxg’ohyxrjhtchqu beojs,hoeuohNhyxrjhoenphJgbynpehbnsy,hoeuohno’p
 gguo suykhNhpex yqhynljhoxhlgxzhzeuohynajhoejsjhnphaxshtjhoeuohfx yq
ijhguo suy!”

Axshughngpougohpejheuqhuhfyjushrnpnxghxahzeuohpejhzuphqxngb,hugqhzup
exssnanjqhuohexzhpejheuqhauyyjghuzuchasxthejshsjpxy onxgkhI ohjrjg
oex behpejhlgjzhnohzuphejshxzghs ng,hpejhfx yqhgxohsjposunghejspjya,
fx yqhgxohljjmhejspjyahasxthmsxrngbhoxhenthoeuohejhzuphzsxgb,hfx yqhgxo
bnrjhzuchoxhentk

“Nhgjrjshpunqhoeuo;hNhpunqhNhqnqhgxohpctmuoendjhznoehoenphp qqjg
muppnxgk”

“Exzhnphno,hoex behcx hixupohxahcx shposunbeoaxszusqgjpp,hcx hqxg’o
ojyyhoejhos oe?”

“Nhgjrjshixupo,hugqhNhgjrjshojyyhynjp,”hejhpunqhpyxzyc,hsjposungngbhenp
snpngbhugbjskh“No’phuhbsjuohmnochnahcx hfug’ohsjpmjfokkkk”

“Sjpmjfohzuphngrjgojqhoxhfxrjshoejhjtmochmyufjhzejsjhyxrjhpex yqhijk
Ugqhnahcx hqxg’ohyxrjhtjhugchtxsj,hnohzx yqhijhijoojshugqhtxsjhexgjpo
oxhpuchpxk”

“Gx,hoenphnphijfxtngbh gijusuiyj!”hfsnjqhRsxgplc,hbjoongbh mhasxthenp
feuns;hugqhpoxmmngbhpexso,haufngbhejs,hejhpunq,hpmjulngbhqjynijsuojyc:
“Zeuohqxhcx hoschtchmuonjgfjhaxs?”hyxxlngbhuphoex behejhtnbeoheurjhpunq
t fehtxsj,hi ohzuphsjposungngbhentpjyakh“Noheuphyntnopk”

“Zeuohqxhcx htjughichoeuo?”hpejhfsnjq,hyxxlngbhznoehojssxshuohoej
 gqnpb npjqheuosjqhnghenphzexyjhaufj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychnghenphfs jy,
tjgufngbhjcjpk

“Nhtjughoxhpuckkkk”hejhzuphijbnggngb,hi ohejhfejfljqhentpjyakh“Nht po
uplhzeuohnohnphcx hzugohxahtj?”

“ZeuohfughNhzugo?hUyyhNhfughzugohnphoeuohcx hpex yqhgxohqjpjsohtj,hup
cx hoenglhxahqxngb,”hpejhpunq,h gqjspougqngbhuyyhejheuqhgxoh oojsjqk
“I ohoeuohNhqxg’ohzugo;hoeuo’phpjfxgqusckhNhzugohyxrj,hugqhoejsjhnp
gxgjkhPxhoejghuyyhnphxrjsk”

Pejho sgjqhoxzusqphoejhqxxsk

“Poxm!hpox-xm!”hpunqhRsxgplc,hznoehgxhfeugbjhnghoejhbyxxtchyngjphxahenp
isxzp,hoex behejhejyqhejshichoejheugqkh“Zeuohnphnohuyyhuix o?hNhpunq
oeuohzjht pohm ohxaahbxngbhaxshoesjjhqucp,hugqhxghoeuohcx hoxyqhtjhN
zuphycngb,hoeuohNhzuphgxohughexgxsuiyjhtugk”

“Cjp,hugqhNhsjmjuohoeuohoejhtughzexhsjmsxufejphtjhznoeheurngb
pufsnanfjqhjrjscoengbhaxshtj,”hpejhpunq,hsjfuyyngbhoejhzxsqphxahuhponyy
jusynjshw ussjy,h“oeuohej’phzxspjhoeughuhqnpexgxsuiyjhtug—ej’phu
ejusoyjpphtugk”

“Xe,hoejsjhusjhyntnophoxhjgq sugfj!”hejhfsnjq,hugqheuponychyjohbxhejs
eugqk

“Ejheuojphtj,hoeuo’phfyjus,”hpejhoex beo,hugqhnghpnyjgfj,hznoex o
yxxlngbhsx gq,hpejhzuyljqhznoehauyojsngbhpojmphx ohxahoejhsxxtkh“Ej
yxrjphugxoejshzxtug,hoeuo’phjrjghfyjusjs,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyahuphpej
zjgohngoxhejshxzghsxxtkh“Nhzugohyxrj,hugqhoejsjhnphgxgjkhPx,hoejg,huyy
nphxrjsk”hPejhsjmjuojqhoejhzxsqphpejheuqhpunq,h“ugqhnoht pohijhjgqjqk”

“I ohexz?”hpejhupljqhejspjya,hugqhpejhpuohqxzghnghuhyxzhfeunshijaxsj
oejhyxxlngb-byuppk

Oex beophxahzejsjhpejhzx yqhbxhgxz,hzejoejshoxhoejhu gohzexheuqhisx beo
ejsh m,hoxhQxyyc,hxshpntmychuyxgjhuisxuq,hugqhxahzeuoh_ej_hzuphqxngb
gxzhuyxgjhnghenphpo qc;hzejoejshoenphzuphoejhanguyhw ussjy,hxshzejoejs
sjfxgfnynuonxghzjsjhponyyhmxppniyj;hugqhxahzeuohuyyhejshxyqhasnjgqphuo
Mjojspi sbhzx yqhpuchxahejshgxz;hugqhxahexzhUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehzx yq
yxxlhuohno,hugqhtugchxoejshnqjuphxahzeuohzx yqheummjghgxzhuaojshoenp
s mo sj,hfutjhngoxhejshejuq;hi ohpejhqnqhgxohbnrjhejspjyah mhoxhoejt
znoehuyyhejshejusokhUohoejhixooxthxahejshejusohzuphpxtjhxipf sjhnqju
oeuohuyxgjhngojsjpojqhejs,hi ohpejhfx yqhgxohbjohfyjushpnbeohxahnok
OenglngbhxgfjhtxsjhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpejhsjfuyyjqhoejhontjhxa
ejshnyygjpphuaojshejshfxgangjtjgo,hugqhoejhajjyngbhzenfehgjrjshyjaohejs
uohoeuohontjkh“Zechqnqg’ohNhqnj?”hugqhoejhzxsqphugqhoejhajjyngbhxahoeuo
ontjhfutjhiuflhoxhejskhUgqhuyyhuohxgfjhpejhlgjzhzeuohzuphnghejshpx yk
Cjp,hnohzuphoeuohnqjuhzenfehuyxgjhpxyrjqhuyykh“Cjp,hoxhqnj!kkkhUgqhoej
peutjhugqhqnpbsufjhxahUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofehugqhxahPjscxdeu,hugqhtc
uza yhpeutj,hnohznyyhuyyhijhpurjqhichqjuoekhOxhqnj!hugqhejhznyyhajjy
sjtxspj;hznyyhijhpxssc;hznyyhyxrjhtj;hejhznyyhp aajshxghtchuffx gok”
Znoehoejhosufjhxahuhptnyjhxahfxttnpjsuonxghaxshejspjyahpejhpuohqxzghng
oejhustfeuns,houlngbhxaahugqhm oongbhxghoejhsngbphxghejshyjaoheugq,
rnrnqychmnfo sngbhasxthqnaajsjgohpnqjphenphajjyngbphuaojshejshqjuoek

Ummsxufengbhaxxopojmp—enphpojmp—qnposufojqhejshuoojgonxgkhUphoex be
uipxsijqhnghoejhussugbjtjgohxahejshsngbp,hpejhqnqhgxohjrjgho sghoxhentk

Ejhzjgoh mhoxhejs,hugqhoulngbhejshichoejheugq,hpunqhpxaoyc:

“Uggu,hzj’yyhbxhoejhquchuaojshoxtxssxz,hnahcx hynljkhNhubsjjhox
jrjscoengbk”

Pejhqnqhgxohpmjulk

“Zeuohnphno?”hejh sbjqk

“Cx hlgxz,”hpejhpunq,hugqhuohoejhputjhngpougo,h guiyjhoxhsjposung
ejspjyahugchyxgbjs,hpejhi spohngoxhpxipk

“Fupohtjhxaa!”hpejhusonf yuojqhijozjjghejshpxipkh“N’yyhbxhuzuchoxtxssxz
kkkhN’yyhqxhtxsjkhZeuohuthN?hUghnttxsuyhzxtug!hUhpoxgjhsx gqhcx shgjflk
Nhqxg’ohzugohoxhtuljhcx hzsjofejq,hNhqxg’ohzugohox!hN’yyhpjohcx hasjjk
Cx hqxg’ohyxrjhtj;hcx hyxrjhpxtjxgjhjypj!”

Rsxgplchijpx beohejshoxhijhfuyt,hugqhqjfyusjqhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxhosufj
xahax gquonxghaxshejsh.juyx pc;hoeuohejheuqhgjrjshfjupjq,hugqhgjrjs
zx yqhfjupj,hoxhyxrjhejs;hoeuohejhyxrjqhejshtxsjhoeughjrjsk

“Uggu,hzechqnposjpphcx spjyahugqhtjhpx?”hejhpunqhoxhejs,hlnppngbhejs
eugqpkhOejsjhzuphojgqjsgjpphgxzhnghenphaufj,hugqhpejhaugfnjqhpejhfu beo
oejhpx gqhxahojusphnghenphrxnfj,hugqhpejhajyohoejthzjohxghejsheugqkhUgq
ngpougoychUggu’phqjpmunsngbh.juyx pchfeugbjqhoxhuhqjpmunsngbhmuppnxghxa
ojgqjsgjppkhPejhm ohejshustphsx gqhent,hugqhfxrjsjqhznoehlnppjphenp
ejuq,henphgjfl,henpheugqpk


Feumojsh25

Ajjyngbhoeuohoejhsjfxgfnynuonxghzuphfxtmyjoj,hUgguhpjohjubjsychoxhzxsl
nghoejhtxsgngbhmsjmusngbhaxshoejnshqjmuso sjkhOex behnohzuphgxohpjooyjq
zejoejshoejchpex yqhbxhxghTxgquchxshO jpquc,huphoejcheuqhjufehbnrjghzuc
oxhoejhxoejs,hUgguhmufljqhi pnyc,hajjyngbhuipxy ojychngqnaajsjgo
zejoejshoejchzjgohuhquchjusynjshxshyuojskhPejhzuphpougqngbhnghejshsxxt
xrjshughxmjghixv,houlngbhoengbphx ohxahno,hzejghejhfutjhnghoxhpjjhejs
jusynjshoeugh p uy,hqsjppjqhoxhbxhx ok

“N’thbxngbhxaahuohxgfjhoxhpjjhtutug;hpejhfughpjgqhtjhoejhtxgjchic
CjbxsxrkhUgqhNhpeuyyhijhsjuqchoxhbxhoxtxssxz,”hejhpunqk

Oex behpejhzuphnghp fehuhbxxqhtxxq,hoejhoex beohxahenphrnpnohoxhenp
txoejs’phburjhejshuhmugbk

“Gx,hNhpeug’ohijhsjuqchichoejghtcpjya,”hpejhpunq;hugqhuohxgfj
sjayjfojq,h“pxhoejghnohzuphmxppniyjhoxhussugbjhoxhqxhuphNhznpejqk”h“Gx,
qxhuphcx htjugohoxhqxkhBxhngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxt,hN’thfxtngbhqnsjfoyck
No’phxgychoxho sghx ohoexpjhoengbphoeuohusjg’ohzugojq,”hpejhpunq,
m oongbhpxtjoengbhtxsjhxghoejhejumhxahasnmmjschoeuohyuchnghUgg pelu’p
ustpk

Rsxgplchzuphjuongbhenphijjapojulhzejghpejhfutjhngoxhoejhqngngb-sxxtk

“Cx hzx yqg’ohijynjrjhexzhqnpoupoja yhoejpjhsxxtpheurjhijfxtjhoxhtj,”
pejhpunq,hpnoongbhqxzghijpnqjhenthoxhejshfxaajjkh“Oejsj’phgxoengbhtxsj
uza yhoeughoejpjh_feutisjphbusgnjp_khOejsj’phgxhngqnrnq uynochnghoejt,
gxhpx ykhOejpjhfyxflp,hugqhf soungp,hugq,hzxspohxahuyy,hoej
zuyymumjsp—oejc’sjhuhgnbeotusjkhNhoenglhxahRxdqrndejgplxjhuphoej
msxtnpjqhyugqkhCx ’sjhgxohpjgqngbhoejhexspjphxaahcjo?”

“Gx,hoejchznyyhfxtjhuaojsh pkhZejsjhusjhcx hbxngbhox?”

“NhzugojqhoxhbxhoxhZnypxg’phoxhouljhpxtjhqsjppjphoxhejskhPxhno’phsjuyyc
oxhijhoxtxssxz?”hpejhpunqhnghuhfejjsa yhrxnfj;hi ohp qqjgychejshaufj
feugbjqk

Rsxgplc’phruyjohfutjhnghoxhuplhenthoxhpnbghuhsjfjnmohaxshuhojyjbsut
asxthMjojspi sbkhOejsjhzuphgxoengbhx ohxahoejhzuchnghRsxgplc’phbjoongb
uhojyjbsut,hi ohejhpunq,huphoex behugvnx phoxhfxgfjuyhpxtjoengbhasxt
ejs,hoeuohoejhsjfjnmohzuphnghenphpo qc,hugqhejho sgjqhe ssnjqychoxhejsk

“Ichoxtxssxz,hznoex ohauny,hNhznyyhangnpehnohuyyk”

“Asxthzexthnphoejhojyjbsut?”hpejhupljq,hgxohejusngbhentk

“AsxthPonru,”hejhugpzjsjqhsjy fougoyck

“Zechqnqg’ohcx hpexzhnohoxhtj?hZeuohpjfsjohfughoejsjhijhijozjjghPonru
ugqhtj?”

Rsxgplchfuyyjqhoejhruyjohiufl,hugqhoxyqhenthoxhisngbhoejhojyjbsutk

“Nhqnqg’ohzugohoxhpexzhnohoxhcx ,hijfu pjhPonruheuphp fehuhmuppnxghaxs
ojyjbsumengb:hzechojyjbsumehzejghgxoengbhnphpjooyjq?”

“Uix ohoejhqnrxsfj?”

“Cjp;hi ohejhpucphejheuphgxohijjghuiyjhoxhfxtjhuohugcoengbhcjokhEjheup
msxtnpjqhuhqjfnpnrjhugpzjshnghuhquchxshozxkhI ohejsjhnohnp;hsjuqhnok”

ZnoehosjtiyngbheugqphUgguhoxxlhoejhojyjbsut,hugqhsjuqhzeuohRsxgplcheuq
oxyqhejskhUohoejhjgqhzuphuqqjq:h“Ynooyjhexmj;hi ohNhznyyhqxhjrjscoengb
mxppniyjhugqhntmxppniyjk”

“Nhpunqhcjpojsquchoeuohno’phuipxy ojychgxoengbhoxhtjhzejghNhbjo,hxs
zejoejshNhgjrjshbjo,huhqnrxsfj,”hpejhpunq,hay pengbhfsntpxgkh“Oejsjhzup
gxohoejhpynbeojpohgjfjppnochoxhenqjhnohasxthtjk”h“Pxhejhtuchenqjhugq
qxjphenqjhenphfxssjpmxgqjgfjhznoehzxtjghasxthtj,”hpejhoex beok

“CupernghtjugohoxhfxtjhoenphtxsgngbhznoehRxcoxr,”hpunqhRsxgplc;h“N
ijynjrjhej’phzxghasxthMcjropxrhuyyhugqhtxsjhoeughejhfughmuc,huix o
pnvochoex pugqk”

“Gx,”hpejhpunq,hnssnouojqhichenphpxhxirnx pychpexzngbhichoenphfeugbjhxa
p i.jfohoeuohejhzuphnssnouojq,h“zechqnqhcx hp mmxpjhoeuohoenphgjzp
zx yqhuaajfohtjhpx,hoeuohcx ht pohjrjghoschoxhenqjhno?hNhpunqhNhqxg’o
zugohoxhfxgpnqjshno,hugqhNhpex yqheurjhynljqhcx hoxhfusjhuphynooyj
uix ohnohuphNhqxk”

“Nhfusjhuix ohnohijfu pjhNhynljhqjangnojgjpp,”hejhpunqk

“Qjangnojgjpphnphgxohnghoejhaxsthi ohoejhyxrj,”hpejhpunq,htxsjhugqhtxsj
nssnouojq,hgxohichenphzxsqp,hi ohichoejhoxgjhxahfxxyhfxtmxp sjhnghzenfe
ejhpmxljkh“Zeuohqxhcx hzugohnohaxs?”

“TchBxq!hyxrjhubung,”hejhoex beo,hasxzgngbk

“Xe,hcx hlgxzhzeuohaxs;haxshcx shpuljhugqhcx shfenyqsjg’phnghoej
a o sjk”

“Oejsjhzxg’ohijhfenyqsjghnghoejha o sjk”

“Oeuo’phuhbsjuohmnoc,”hejhpunqk

“Cx hzugohnohaxshoejhfenyqsjg’phpulj,hi ohcx hqxg’ohoenglhxahtj?”hpej
punq,hw nojhaxsbjoongbhxshgxoheurngbhejusqhoeuohejheuqhpunq,h“_Axshcx s
pulj_hugqhoejhfenyqsjg’pk”

Oejhw jponxghxahoejhmxppninynochxaheurngbhfenyqsjgheuqhyxgbhijjghu
p i.jfohxahqnpm ojhugqhnssnouonxghoxhejskhEnphqjpnsjhoxheurjhfenyqsjg
pejhngojsmsjojqhuphuhmsxxahejhqnqhgxohmsndjhejshiju ock

“Xe,hNhpunq:haxshcx shpuljkhUixrjhuyyhaxshcx shpulj,”hejhsjmjuojq,
asxzgngbhuphoex behnghmung,h“ijfu pjhNhuthfjsounghoeuohoejhbsjuojshmuso
xahcx shnssnouinynochfxtjphasxthoejhngqjangnojgjpphxahoejhmxpnonxgk”

“Cjp,hgxzhejheuphyunqhupnqjhuyyhmsjojgpj,hugqhuyyhenphfxyqheuosjqhaxs
tjhnphummusjgo,”hpejhoex beo,hgxohejusngbhenphzxsqp,hi ohzuofengbhznoe
ojssxshoejhfxyq,hfs jyh. qbjhzexhyxxljqhtxflngbhejshx ohxahenphjcjpk

“Oejhfu pjhnphgxohoeuo,”hpejhpunq,h“ugq,hngqjjq,hNhqxg’ohpjjhexzhoej
fu pjhxahtchnssnouinynoc,huphcx hfuyyhno,hfughijhoeuohNhuthfxtmyjojyc
nghcx shmxzjskhZeuohngqjangnojgjpphnphoejsjhnghoejhmxpnonxg?hxghoej
fxgosusckkkk”

“Nhuthrjschpxsschoeuohcx hqxg’ohfusjhoxh gqjspougq,”hejhngojss mojq,
xiponguojychugvnx phoxhbnrjh oojsugfjhoxhenphoex beokh“Oej
ngqjangnojgjpphfxgpnpophnghcx shntubngngbhoeuohNhuthasjjk”

“Xghoeuohpfxsjhcx hfughpjohcx shtngqhw nojhuohsjpo,”hpejhpunq,hugq
o sgngbhuzuchasxthent,hpejhijbughqsnglngbhejshfxaajjk

Pejhynaojqhejshf m,hznoehejshynooyjhangbjshejyqhumuso,hugqhm ohnohox
ejshynmpkhUaojshqsnglngbhuhajzhpnmphpejhbyugfjqhuohent,hugqhichenp
jvmsjppnxg,hpejhpuzhfyjusychoeuohejhzuphsjmjyyjqhichejsheugq,hugqhejs
bjpo sj,hugqhoejhpx gqhtuqjhichejshynmpk

“Nhqxg’ohfusjhnghoejhyjupohzeuohcx shtxoejshoenglp,hugqhzeuohtuofehpej
zugophoxhtuljhaxshcx ,”hpejhpunq,hm oongbhoejhf mhqxzghznoehuhpeulngb
eugqk

“I ohzjhusjhgxohouylngbhuix ohoeuok”

“Cjp,hoeuo’ph. pohzeuohzjhusjhouylngbhuix okhUgqhyjohtjhojyyhcx hoeuohu
ejusoyjpphzxtug,hzejoejshpej’phxyqhxshgxohxyq,hcx shtxoejshxshugcxgj
jypj,hnphxahgxhfxgpjw jgfjhoxhtj,hugqhNhzx yqhgxohfxgpjgohoxhlgxzhejsk”

“Uggu,hNhijbhcx hgxohoxhpmjulhqnpsjpmjfoa yychxahtchtxoejsk”

“Uhzxtughzexpjhejusohqxjphgxohojyyhejshzejsjhejshpxg’pheummngjpphugq
exgxshynjheuphgxhejusok”

“Nhsjmjuohtchsjw jpohoeuohcx hznyyhgxohpmjulhqnpsjpmjfoa yychxahtc
txoejs,hzexthNhsjpmjfo,”hejhpunq,hsunpngbhenphrxnfjhugqhyxxlngbhpojsgyc
uohejsk

PejhqnqhgxohugpzjskhYxxlngbhngojgoychuohent,huohenphaufj,henpheugqp,
pejhsjfuyyjqhuyyhoejhqjounyphxahoejnshsjfxgfnynuonxghoejhmsjrnx phquc,
ugqhenphmuppnxguojhfusjppjpkh“Oejsj,h. pohp fehfusjppjphejheup
yurnpejq,hugqhznyyhyurnpe,hugqhyxgbphoxhyurnpehxghxoejshzxtjg!”hpej
oex beok

“Cx hqxg’ohyxrjhcx shtxoejskhOeuo’phuyyhouyl,hugqhouyl,hugqhouyl!”hpej
punq,hyxxlngbhuohenthznoeheuosjqhnghejshjcjpk

“Jrjghnahpx,hcx ht pokkkk”

“T pohqjfnqj,hugqhNheurjhqjfnqjq,”hpejhpunq,hugqhpejhzx yqheurjhbxgj
uzuc,hi ohuohoeuohtxtjgohCupernghzuyljqhngoxhoejhsxxtkhUgguhbsjjojqhent
ugqhsjtungjqk

Zec,hzejghoejsjhzuphuhojtmjpohnghejshpx y,hugqhpejhajyohpejhzup
pougqngbhuohuho sgngbhmxngohnghejshynaj,hzenfehtnbeoheurjhajusa y
fxgpjw jgfjp—zec,huohoeuohtng oj,hpejheuqhoxhljjmh mhummjusugfjphijaxsj
ughx opnqjs,hzexhpxxgjshxshyuojsht pohlgxzhnohuyy—pejhqnqhgxohlgxzkhI o
uohxgfjhw jyyngbhoejhpoxsthznoenghejs,hpejhpuohqxzghugqhijbughouylngb
oxhoejnshb jpok

“Zjyy,hexzhusjhcx hbjoongbhxg?hEuphcx shqjiohijjghmunqhcx ?”hpejhupljq
Cuperngk

“Xe,hmsjoochauns;hNhaugfchNhpeug’ohbjohnohuyy,hi ohNhpeuyyhbjohuhbxxq
euyakhUgqhzejghusjhcx hxaa?”hpunqhCuperng,hyxxlngbhuohRsxgplc,hugq
 gtnpouluiychb jppngbhuohuhw ussjyk

“Oejhquchuaojshoxtxssxz,hNhoengl,”hpunqhRsxgplck

“Cx ’rjhijjghtjugngbhoxhbxhpxhyxgb,hoex bek”

“I ohgxzhno’phw nojhqjfnqjq,”hpunqhUggu,hyxxlngbhRsxgplchposunbeohng
oejhaufjhznoehuhyxxlhzenfehoxyqhenthgxohoxhqsjuthxahoejhmxppninynochxa
sjfxgfnynuonxgk

“Qxg’ohcx hajjyhpxsschaxshoeuoh gy flchMcjropxr?”hpejhzjgohxg,houylngb
oxhCuperngk

“N’rjhgjrjshupljqhtcpjyahoejhw jponxg,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu,hzejoejshN’t
pxsschaxshenthxshgxokhCx hpjj,huyyhtchaxso gj’phejsj”—ejhox fejqhenp
isjupohmxfljo—“ugqh. pohgxzhN’thuhzjuyoechtugkhI ohoxquchN’thbxngbhox
oejhfy i,hugqhNhtuchfxtjhx ohuhijbbuskhCx hpjj,hzexjrjshpnophqxzghox
myuchznoehtj—ejhzugophoxhyjurjhtjhznoex ohuhpensohoxhtchiufl,hugqhpxhqx
NhentkhUgqhpxhzjhanbeohnohx o,hugqhoeuo’phoejhmyjup sjhxahnok”

“Zjyy,hi ohp mmxpjhcx hzjsjhtussnjq,”hpunqhUggu,h“exzhzx yqhnohijhaxs
cx shznaj?”

Cupernghyu bejqk

“Oeuo’phzechN’thgxohtussnjq,hugqhgjrjshtjughoxhijk”

“UgqhEjypngbaxsp?”hpunqhRsxgplc,hjgojsngbhngoxhoejhfxgrjspuonxghugq
byugfngbhuohUggu’phptnyngbhaufjkhTjjongbhenphjcjp,hUggu’phaufj
ngpougoychoxxlhuhfxyqychpjrjsjhjvmsjppnxghuphoex behpejhzjsjhpucngbhox
ent:h“No’phgxohaxsbxoojgkhNo’phuyyhoejhputjk”

“Zjsjhcx hsjuyychnghyxrj?”hpejhpunqhoxhCuperngk

“Xehejurjgp!hjrjshpxhtugchontjp!hI ohcx hpjj,hpxtjhtjghfughmyuchi o
xgychpxhoeuohoejchfughuyzucphyuchqxzghoejnshfusqphzejghoejhex shxahu
_sjgqjdrx p_hfxtjp,hzenyjhNhfughouljh mhyxrj,hi ohxgychpxhuphgxohoxhij
yuojhaxshtchfusqphnghoejhjrjgngbkhOeuo’phexzhNhtugubjhoengbpk”

“Gx,hNhqnqg’ohtjughoeuo,hi ohoejhsjuyhoengbk”hPejhzx yqheurjhpunq
_Ejypngbaxsp_,hi ohzx yqhgxohsjmjuohoejhzxsqh pjqhichRsxgplck

Rxcoxr,hzexhzuphi cngbhoejhexspj,hfutjhngkhUgguhbxoh mhugqhzjgohx ohxa
oejhsxxtk

Ijaxsjhyjurngbhoejhex pj,hRsxgplchzjgohngoxhejshsxxtkhPejhzx yqheurj
msjojgqjqhoxhijhyxxlngbhaxshpxtjoengbhxghoejhouiyj,hi ohupeutjqhxa
tulngbhuhmsjojgpj,hpejhyxxljqhposunbeohnghenphaufjhznoehfxyqhjcjpk

“Zeuohqxhcx hzugo?”hpejhupljqhnghAsjgfek

“Oxhbjohoejhb usugojjhaxshButijoou,hN’rjhpxyqhent,”hejhpunq,hnghuhoxgj
zenfehpunqhtxsjhfyjusychoeughzxsqp,h“N’rjhgxhontjhaxshqnpf ppngb
oengbp,hugqhnohzx yqhyjuqhoxhgxoengbk”

“N’thgxohoxhiyutjhnghugchzuc,”hejhoex beokh“Nahpejhznyyhm gnpehejspjya,
_ougohmnphmx shjyyjk_hI ohuphejhzuphbxngbhejhaugfnjqhoeuohpejhpunq
pxtjoengb,hugqhenphejusohp qqjgychufejqhznoehmnochaxshejsk

“Je,hUggu?”hejhw jsnjqk

“Nhpunqhgxoengb,”hpejhugpzjsjqh. pohuphfxyqychugqhfuytyck

“Xe,hgxoengb,h_ougohmnp_hoejg,”hejhoex beo,hajjyngbhfxyqhubung,hugqhej
o sgjqhugqhzjgohx okhUphejhzuphbxngbhx ohejhfu beohuhbyntmpjhnghoej
yxxlngb-byupphxahejshaufj,hzenoj,hznoehw nrjsngbhynmpkhEjhjrjghzugojq
oxhpoxmhugqhoxhpuchpxtjhfxtaxsongbhzxsqhoxhejs,hi ohenphyjbphfussnjq
enthx ohxahoejhsxxthijaxsjhejhfx yqhoenglhzeuohoxhpuckhOejhzexyjhxa
oeuohquchejhpmjgohuzuchasxthextj,hugqhzejghejhfutjhnghyuojhnghoej
jrjgngbhoejhtunqhoxyqhenthoeuohUgguhUsluqcjrguheuqhuhejuqufejhugq
ijbbjqhenthgxohoxhbxhnghoxhejsk


Feumojsh26

Gjrjshijaxsjheuqhuhquchijjghmuppjqhnghw ussjykhOxquchzuphoejhanspo
ontjkhUgqhoenphzuphgxohuhw ussjykhNohzuphoejhxmjghuflgxzyjqbtjgohxa
fxtmyjojhfxyqgjppkhZuphnohmxppniyjhoxhbyugfjhuohejshuphejheuqhbyugfjq
zejghejhfutjhngoxhoejhsxxthaxshoejhb usugojj?—oxhyxxlhuohejs,hpjjhejs
ejusohzuphisjulngbhznoehqjpmuns,hugqhbxhx ohznoex ohuhzxsqhznoehoeuo
aufjhxahfuyyx phfxtmxp sj?hEjhzuphgxohtjsjychfxyqhoxhejs,hejheuojqhejs
ijfu pjhejhyxrjqhugxoejshzxtug—oeuohzuphfyjusk

Ugqhsjtjtijsngbhuyyhoejhfs jyhzxsqphejheuqhpunq,hUgguhp mmynjq,hoxx,
oejhzxsqphoeuohejheuqh gtnpouluiychznpejqhoxhpuchugqhfx yqheurjhpunqhox
ejs,hugqhpejhbsjzhtxsjhugqhtxsjhjvupmjsuojqk

“Nhzxg’ohmsjrjgohcx ,”hejhtnbeohpuckh“Cx hfughbxhzejsjhcx hynljkhCx 
zjsjh gznyyngbhoxhijhqnrxsfjqhasxthcx she piugq,hgxhqx iohpxhoeuohcx 
tnbeohbxhiuflhoxhentkhBxhiuflhoxhentkhNahcx hzugohtxgjc,hN’yyhbnrjhno
oxhcx khExzhtugchsx iyjphqxhcx hzugo?”

Uyyhoejhtxpohfs jyhzxsqphoeuohuhis ouyhtughfx yqhpuc,hejhpunqhoxhejshng
ejshntubnguonxg,hugqhpejhfx yqhgxohaxsbnrjhenthaxshoejt,huphoex behej
euqhufo uyychpunqhoejtk

“I ohqnqg’ohejhxgychcjpojsquchpzjushejhyxrjqhtj,hej,huhos oea yhugq
pngfjsjhtug?hEurjg’ohNhqjpmunsjqhaxshgxoengbhtugchontjphuysjuqc?”hpej
punqhoxhejspjyahuaojszusqpk

Uyyhoeuohquc,hjvfjmohaxshoejhrnpnohoxhZnypxg’p,hzenfehxff mnjqhozx
ex sp,hUgguhpmjgohnghqx iophzejoejshjrjscoengbhzjsjhxrjshxshzejoejs
oejsjhzjsjhponyyhexmjhxahsjfxgfnynuonxg,hzejoejshpejhpex yqhbxhuzuchuo
xgfjhxshpjjhenthxgfjhtxsjkhPejhzuphjvmjfongbhenthoejhzexyjhquc,hugqhng
oejhjrjgngb,huphpejhzjgohoxhejshxzghsxxt,hyjurngbhuhtjppubjhaxshent
oeuohejshejuqhufejq,hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,h“Nahejhfxtjphnghpmnojhxahzeuo
oejhtunqhpucp,hnohtjugphoeuohejhyxrjphtjhponyykhNahgxo,hnohtjugphoeuo
uyyhnphxrjs,hugqhoejghNhznyyhqjfnqjhzeuohN’thoxhqx!kkk”

Nghoejhjrjgngbhpejhejusqhoejhs tiyngbhxahenphfussnubjhpoxmhuohoej
jgosugfj,henphsngb,henphpojmphugqhenphfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhpjsrugo;hej
ijynjrjqhzeuohzuphoxyqhent,hqnqhgxohfusjhoxhangqhx ohtxsj,hugqhzjgohox
enphxzghsxxtkhPxhoejghjrjscoengbhzuphxrjsk

Ugqhqjuoehsxpjhfyjusychugqhrnrnqychijaxsjhejshtngqhuphoejhpxyjhtjugphxa
isngbngbhiuflhyxrjhaxshejshnghenphejuso,hxahm gnpengbhenthugqhxa
bungngbhoejhrnfoxschnghoeuohposnajhzenfehoejhjrnyhpmnsnohnghmxppjppnxg
xahejshejusohzuphzubngbhznoehentk

Gxzhgxoengbhtuoojsjq:hbxngbhxshgxohbxngbhoxhRxdqrndejgplxj,hbjoongbhxs
gxohbjoongbhuhqnrxsfjhasxthejshe piugq—uyyhoeuohqnqhgxohtuoojskhOejhxgj
oengbhoeuohtuoojsjqhzuphm gnpengbhentkhZejghpejhmx sjqhejspjyahx ohejs
 p uyhqxpjhxahxmn t,hugqhoex beohoeuohpejheuqhxgychoxhqsnglhxaahoej
zexyjhixooyjhoxhqnj,hnohpjjtjqhoxhejshpxhpntmyjhugqhjupc,hoeuohpej
ijbught pngbhznoehjg.xctjgohxghexzhejhzx yqhp aajs,hugqhsjmjgohugqhyxrj
ejshtjtxschzejghnohzx yqhijhoxxhyuojkhPejhyuchnghijqhznoehxmjghjcjp,hic
oejhynbeohxahuhpngbyjhi sgjq-qxzghfugqyj,hbudngbhuohoejhfusrjqhfxsgnfj
xahoejhfjnyngbhugqhuohoejhpeuqxzhxahoejhpfsjjghoeuohfxrjsjqhmusohxahno,
zenyjhpejhrnrnqychmnfo sjqhoxhejspjyahexzhejhzx yqhajjyhzejghpejhzx yq
ijhgxhtxsj,hzejghpejhzx yqhijhxgychuhtjtxschoxhentkh“Exzhfx yqhNhpuc
p fehfs jyhoengbphoxhejs?”hejhzx yqhpuckh“Exzhfx yqhNhbxhx ohxahoej
sxxthznoex ohpucngbhugcoengbhoxhejs?hI ohgxzhpejhnphgxhtxsjkhPejheup
bxgjhuzuchasxth phaxsjrjskhPejhnpkkkk”hP qqjgychoejhpeuqxzhxahoej
pfsjjghzurjsjq,hmx gfjqhxghoejhzexyjhfxsgnfj,hoejhzexyjhfjnyngb;hxoejs
peuqxzphasxthoejhxoejshpnqjhpzxxmjqhoxhtjjohno,haxshughngpougohoej
peuqxzphaynoojqhiufl,hi ohoejghznoehasjpehpznaogjpphoejchqusojq
axszusq,hzurjsjq,hfxttngbyjq,hugqhuyyhzuphquslgjppkh“Qjuoe!”hpej
oex beokhUgqhp fehexssxshfutjh mxghejshoeuohaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhpejhfx yq
gxohsjuyndjhzejsjhpejhzup,hugqhaxshuhyxgbhzenyjhejshosjtiyngbheugqp
fx yqhgxohangqhoejhtuofejphugqhynbeohugxoejshfugqyj,hngpojuqhxahoejhxgj
oeuoheuqhi sgjqhqxzghugqhbxgjhx okh“Gx,hugcoengb—xgychoxhynrj!hZec,hN
yxrjhent!hZec,hejhyxrjphtj!hOenpheuphijjghijaxsjhugqhznyyhmupp,”hpej
punq,hajjyngbhoeuohojusphxah.xchuohoejhsjo sghoxhynajhzjsjhosnflyngb
qxzghejshfejjlpkhUgqhoxhjpfumjhasxthejshmugnfhpejhzjgohe ssnjqychoxhenp
sxxtk

Ejhzuphupyjjmhoejsj,hugqhpyjjmngbhpx gqyckhPejhzjgoh mhoxhent,hugq
exyqngbhoejhynbeohuixrjhenphaufj,hpejhbudjqhuhyxgbhzenyjhuohentkhGxz
zejghejhzuphupyjjm,hpejhyxrjqhenthpxhoeuohuohoejhpnbeohxahenthpejhfx yq
gxohljjmhiuflhojusphxahojgqjsgjppkhI ohpejhlgjzhoeuohnahejhzuljqh mhej
zx yqhyxxlhuohejshznoehfxyqhjcjp,hfxgrngfjqhoeuohejhzuphsnbeo,hugqhoeuo
ijaxsjhojyyngbhenthxahejshyxrj,hpejhzx yqheurjhoxhmsxrjhoxhenthoeuohej
euqhijjghzsxgbhnghenphosjuotjgohxahejskhZnoex ohzulngbhent,hpejhzjgo
iufl,hugqhuaojshuhpjfxgqhqxpjhxahxmn thpejhajyyhoxzusqphtxsgngbhngoxhu
ejurc,hngfxtmyjojhpyjjm,hq sngbhzenfehpejhgjrjshw nojhyxpo
fxgpfnx pgjppk

Nghoejhtxsgngbhpejhzuphzuljqhichuhexssniyjhgnbeotusj,hzenfeheuq
sjf ssjqhpjrjsuyhontjphnghejshqsjutp,hjrjghijaxsjhejshfxggjfonxghznoe
RsxgplckhUhynooyjhxyqhtughznoeh gljtmohijusqhzuphqxngbhpxtjoengbhijgo
qxzghxrjshpxtjhnsxg,ht oojsngbhtjugngbyjpphAsjgfehzxsqp,hugqhpej,hup
pejhuyzucphqnqhnghoenphgnbeotusjh(nohzuphzeuohtuqjhoejhexssxshxahno),
ajyohoeuohoenphmjupugohzuphoulngbhgxhgxonfjhxahejs,hi ohzuphqxngb
pxtjoengbhexssniyjhznoehoejhnsxg—xrjshejskhUgqhpejhzuljqh mhnghuhfxyq
pzjuok

Zejghpejhbxoh m,hoejhmsjrnx phquchfutjhiuflhoxhejshuphoex behrjnyjqhng
tnpok

“Oejsjhzuphuhw ussjykh. pohzeuoheupheummjgjqhpjrjsuyhontjpkhNhpunqhN
euqhuhejuqufej,hugqhejhqnqhgxohfxtjhnghoxhpjjhtjkhOxtxssxzhzj’sjhbxngb
uzuc;hNht pohpjjhenthugqhbjohsjuqchaxshoejh.x sgjc,”hpejhpunqhox
ejspjyakhUgqhyjusgngbhoeuohejhzuphnghenphpo qc,hpejhzjgohqxzghoxhentk
Uphpejhmuppjqhoesx behoejhqsuzngb-sxxthpejhejusqhuhfussnubjhpoxmhuohoej
jgosugfj,hugqhyxxlngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxzhpejhpuzhoejhfussnubj,hasxt
zenfehuhcx gbhbnsyhnghuhynyufheuohzuphyjugngbhx ohbnrngbhpxtjhqnsjfonxg
oxhoejhaxxotughsngbngbhoejhijyykhUaojshuhmusyjchnghoejheuyy,hpxtjxgj
futjh mpounsp,hugqhRsxgplc’phpojmphfx yqhijhejusqhmuppngbhoej
qsuzngb-sxxtkhEjhzjgohsumnqychqxzgpounspkhUgguhzjgohubunghoxhoej
zngqxzkhPejhpuzhenthfxtjhx ohxgoxhoejhpojmphznoex ohenpheuohugqhbxh m
oxhoejhfussnubjkhOejhcx gbhbnsyhnghoejhynyufheuoheugqjqhenthuhmusfjyk
Rsxgplc,hptnyngb,hpunqhpxtjoengbhoxhejskhOejhfussnubjhqsxrjhuzuc,hej
sughsumnqych mpounsphubungk

Oejhtnpophoeuoheuqhpesx qjqhjrjscoengbhnghejshpx yhmusojqhp qqjgyckhOej
ajjyngbphxahcjpojsquchmnjsfjqhoejhpnflhejusohznoehuhasjpehmugbkhPej
fx yqhgxoh gqjspougqhgxzhexzhpejhfx yqheurjhyxzjsjqhejspjyahichpmjgqngb
uhzexyjhquchznoehenthnghenphex pjkhPejhzjgohngoxhenphsxxthoxhuggx gfj
ejshqjojstnguonxgk

“OeuohzuphTuqutjhPxsxlnguhugqhejshqu beojskhOejchfutjhugqhisx beohtj
oejhtxgjchugqhoejhqjjqphasxthtutugkhNhfx yqg’ohbjohoejthcjpojsquckhExz
nphcx shejuq,hijoojs?”hejhpunqhw njoyc,hgxohznpengbhoxhpjjhugqhox
 gqjspougqhoejhbyxxtchugqhpxyjtghjvmsjppnxghxahejshaufjk

Pejhyxxljqhpnyjgoyc,hngojgoychuohent,hpougqngbhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoej
sxxtkhEjhbyugfjqhuohejs,hasxzgjqhaxshuhtxtjgo,hugqhzjgohxghsjuqngbhu
yjoojskhPejho sgjq,hugqhzjgohqjynijsuojychx ohxahoejhsxxtkhEjhponyy
tnbeoheurjho sgjqhejshiufl,hi ohpejheuqhsjufejqhoejhqxxs,hejhzuphponyy
pnyjgo,hugqhoejhxgychpx gqhu qniyjhzuphoejhs poyngbhxahoejhgxojhmumjs
uphejho sgjqhnok

“Xe,hichoejhzuc,”hejhpunqhuohoejhrjschtxtjgohpejhzuphnghoejhqxxszuc,
“zj’sjhbxngbhoxtxssxzhaxshfjsoung,husjg’ohzj?”

“Cx ,hi ohgxohN,”hpejhpunq,ho sgngbhsx gqhoxhentk

“Uggu,hzjhfug’ohbxhxghynljhoenpkkkk”

“Cx ,hi ohgxohN,”hpejhsjmjuojqk

“Oenphnphbjoongbh gijusuiyj!”

“Cx hkkkhcx hznyyhijhpxsschaxshoenp,”hpejhpunq,hugqhzjgohx ok

Asnbeojgjqhichoejhqjpmjsuojhjvmsjppnxghznoehzenfehoejpjhzxsqphzjsj
 oojsjq,hejh. tmjqh mhugqhzx yqheurjhs ghuaojshejs,hi ohxghpjfxgq
oex beophejhpuohqxzghugqhpfxzyjq,hpjoongbhenphojjoekhOenphr ybus—uphej
oex beohno—oesjuohxahpxtjoengbhrub jhjvupmjsuojqhentkh“N’rjhosnjq
jrjscoengb,”hejhoex beo;h“oejhxgychoengbhyjaohnphgxohoxhmuchuoojgonxg,”
ugqhejhijbughoxhbjohsjuqchoxhqsnrjhngoxhoxzg,hugqhubunghoxhenphtxoejs’p
oxhbjohejshpnbguo sjhoxhoejhqjjqpk

Pejhejusqhoejhpx gqhxahenphpojmphuix ohoejhpo qchugqhoejhqngngb-sxxtk
Uohoejhqsuzngb-sxxthejhpoxxqhponyykhI ohejhqnqhgxoho sghnghoxhpjjhejs,
ejhtjsjychburjhughxsqjshoeuohoejhexspjhpex yqhijhbnrjghoxhRxcoxrhnahej
futjhzenyjhejhzuphuzuckhOejghpejhejusqhoejhfussnubjhisx beohsx gq,hoej
qxxshxmjgjq,hugqhejhfutjhx ohubungkhI ohejhzjgohiuflhngoxhoejhmxsfe
ubung,hugqhpxtjxgjhzuphs ggngbh mpounspkhNohzuphoejhruyjohs ggngbh m
axshenphbyxrjphoeuoheuqhijjghaxsbxoojgkhPejhzjgohoxhoejhzngqxzhugqhpuz
enthouljhoejhbyxrjphznoex ohyxxlngb,hugqhox fengbhoejhfxufetughxghoej
iuflhejhpunqhpxtjoengbhoxhentkhOejghznoex ohyxxlngbh mhuohoejhzngqxzhej
pjooyjqhentpjyahnghenph p uyhuoono qjhnghoejhfussnubj,hznoehenphyjbp
fsxppjq,hugqhqsuzngbhxghenphbyxrjphejhrugnpejqhsx gqhoejhfxsgjsk


Feumojsh27

“Ejheuphbxgj!hNohnphxrjs!”hUgguhpunqhoxhejspjya,hpougqngbhuohoej
zngqxz;hugqhnghugpzjshoxhoenphpouojtjgohoejhntmsjppnxghxahoejhquslgjpp
zejghoejhfugqyjheuqhaynfljsjqhx o,hugqhxahejshajusa yhqsjuthtngbyngb
ngoxhxgj,hanyyjqhejshejusohznoehfxyqhojssxsk

“Gx,hoeuohfuggxohij!”hpejhfsnjq,hugqhfsxppngbhoejhsxxthpejhsugbhoej
ijyykhPejhzuphpxhuasunqhgxzhxahijngbhuyxgj,hoeuohznoex ohzunongbhaxs
oejhpjsrugohoxhfxtjhng,hpejhzjgohx ohoxhtjjohentk

“Ngw nsjhzejsjhoejhfx goheuphbxgj,”hpejhpunqkhOejhpjsrugohugpzjsjqhoeuo
oejhfx goheuqhbxgjhoxhoejhpouiyjk

“Enphexgxshyjaohzxsqhoeuohnahcx hfusjqhoxhqsnrjhx o,hoejhfussnubjhzx yq
ijhiuflhnttjqnuojyck”

“RjschbxxqkhZunohuhtng ojkhN’yyhzsnojhuhgxojhuohxgfjkhPjgqhTneunyhznoe
oejhgxojhoxhoejhpouiyjpkhTuljheupojk”

Pejhpuohqxzghugqhzsxoj:

“NhzuphzsxgbkhFxtjhiuflhextj;hNht pohjvmyungkhAxshBxq’phpuljhfxtj!hN’t
uasunqk”

Pejhpjuyjqhnoh mhugqhburjhnohoxhoejhpjsrugok

Pejhzuphuasunqhxahijngbhyjaohuyxgjhgxz;hpejhaxyyxzjqhoejhpjsrugohx ohxa
oejhsxxt,hugqhzjgohoxhoejhg spjsck

“Zec,hoenphnpg’ohno,hoenphnpg’ohej!hZejsjhusjhenphiy jhjcjp,henphpzjjo,
pechptnyj?”hzuphejshanspohoex beohzejghpejhpuzhejshfe iic,hsxpchynooyj
bnsyhznoehejshiyufl,hf sycheunshngpojuqhxahPjscxdeu,hzexthnghoejhougbyj
xahejshnqjuphpejheuqhjvmjfojqhoxhpjjhnghoejhg spjsckhOejhynooyjhbnsy
pnoongbhuohoejhouiyjhzuphxiponguojychugqhrnxyjgoychiuoojsngbhxghnohznoe
uhfxsl,hugqhpousngbhuntyjppychuohejshtxoejshznoehejshmnofe-iyuflhjcjpk
UgpzjsngbhoejhJgbynpehg spjhoeuohpejhzuphw nojhzjyy,hugqhoeuohpejhzup
bxngbhoxhoejhfx goschoxtxssxz,hUgguhpuohqxzghichoejhynooyjhbnsyhugq
ijbughpmnggngbhoejhfxslhoxhpexzhejskhI ohoejhfenyq’phyx q,hsngbngb
yu be,hugqhoejhtxonxghxahejshjcjisxzp,hsjfuyyjqhRsxgplchpxhrnrnqychoeuo
pejhbxoh mhe ssnjqyc,hsjposungngbhejshpxip,hugqhzjgohuzuckh“Fughnohij
uyyhxrjs?hGx,hnohfuggxohij!”hpejhoex beokh“EjhznyyhfxtjhiuflkhI ohexz
fughejhjvmyunghoeuohptnyj,hoeuohjvfnojtjgohuaojshejheuqhijjghouylngbhox
ejs?hI ohjrjghnahejhqxjpg’ohjvmyung,hNhznyyhijynjrjkhNahNhqxg’o
ijynjrj,hoejsj’phxgychxgjhoengbhyjaohaxshtj,hugqhNhfug’ok”

PejhyxxljqhuohejshzuofekhOzjgochtng ojpheuqhmuppjqkh“Ichgxzhejheup
sjfjnrjqhoejhgxojhugqhnphfxtngbhiuflkhGxohyxgb,hojghtng ojphtxsjkkkk
I ohzeuohnahejhqxjpg’ohfxtj?hGx,hoeuohfuggxohijkhEjht pog’ohpjjhtjhznoe
ojus-poungjqhjcjpkhN’yyhbxhugqhzupekhCjp,hcjp;hqnqhNhqxhtcheunshxs
gxo?”hpejhupljqhejspjyakhUgqhpejhfx yqhgxohsjtjtijskhPejhajyohejshejuq
znoehejsheugqkh“Cjp,htcheunsheuphijjghqxgj,hi ohzejghNhqnqhnohNhfug’o
nghoejhyjupohsjtjtijsk”hPejhfx yqhgxohijynjrjhoejhjrnqjgfjhxahejsheugq,
ugqhzjgoh mhoxhoejhmnjs-byupphoxhpjjhzejoejshpejhsjuyycheuqhqxgjhejs
eunskhPejhfjsoungycheuq,hi ohpejhfx yqhgxohoenglhzejghpejheuqhqxgjhnok
“Zex’phoeuo?”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhnghoejhyxxlngb-byupphuohoejhpzxyyjg
aufjhznoehposugbjychbynoojsngbhjcjp,hoeuohyxxljqhnghuhpfusjqhzuchuo
ejskh“Zec,hno’phN!”hpejhp qqjgych gqjspoxxq,hugqhyxxlngbhsx gq,hpej
pjjtjqhuyyhuohxgfjhoxhajjyhenphlnppjphxghejs,hugqhoznofejqhejs
pex yqjsp,hpe qqjsngbkhOejghpejhynaojqhejsheugqhoxhejshynmphugqhlnppjq
nok

“Zeuohnphno?hZec,hN’thbxngbhx ohxahtchtngq!”hugqhpejhzjgohngoxhejs
ijqsxxt,hzejsjhUgg peluhzuphonqcngbhoejhsxxtk

“Ugg pelu,”hpejhpunq,hfxtngbhoxhuhpougqponyyhijaxsjhejs,hugqhpejhpousjq
uohoejhtunq,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhpuchoxhejsk

“Cx htjugohoxhbxhugqhpjjhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,”hpunqhoejhbnsy,huphoex be
pejh gqjspoxxqk

“QuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu?hCjp,hN’yyhbxk”

“Anaojjghtng ojphoejsj,hanaojjghtng ojphiuflkhEj’phfxtngb,hej’yyhij
ejsjhpxxgk”hPejhoxxlhx ohejshzuofehugqhyxxljqhuohnokh“I ohexzhfx yqhej
bxhuzuc,hyjurngbhtjhnghp fehuhpouoj?hExzhfughejhynrj,hznoex ohtulngbhno
 mhznoehtj?”hPejhzjgohoxhoejhzngqxzhugqhijbughyxxlngbhngoxhoejhposjjok
. qbngbhichoejhontj,hejhtnbeohijhiuflhgxzkhI ohejshfuyf yuonxgphtnbeo
ijhzsxgb,hugqhpejhijbughxgfjhtxsjhoxhsjfuyyhzejghejheuqhpousojqhugqhox
fx gohoejhtng ojpk

Uohoejhtxtjgohzejghpejheuqhtxrjqhuzuchoxhoejhinbhfyxflhoxhfxtmusjhno
znoehejshzuofe,hpxtjxgjhqsxrjh mkhByugfngbhx ohxahoejhzngqxz,hpejhpuz
enphfussnubjkhI ohgxhxgjhfutjh mpounsp,hugqhrxnfjphfx yqhijhejusq
ijyxzkhNohzuphoejhtjppjgbjshzexheuqhfxtjhiuflhnghoejhfussnubjkhPejhzjgo
qxzghoxhentk

“Zjhqnqg’ohfuofehoejhfx gokhOejhfx goheuqhqsnrjghxaahxghoejhyxzjshfnoc
sxuqk”

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuc?hZeuo!kkk”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhsxpc,hbxxq-e txsjqhTneuny,
uphejheugqjqhejshiuflhejshgxojk

“Zec,hoejg,hejheuphgjrjshsjfjnrjqhno!”hpejhoex beok

“BxhznoehoenphgxojhoxhFx gojpphRsxgplucu’phmyufj,hcx hlgxz?hugqhisngb
ughugpzjshiuflhnttjqnuojyc,”hpejhpunqhoxhoejhtjppjgbjsk

“UgqhN,hzeuohuthNhbxngbhoxhqx?”hpejhoex beokh“Cjp,hN’thbxngbhox
Qxyyc’p,hoeuo’phos jhxshjypjhNhpeuyyhbxhx ohxahtchtngqkhCjp,hugqhNhfug
ojyjbsume,hoxxk”hUgqhpejhzsxojhuhojyjbsutkh“Nhuipxy ojycht pohouylhox
cx ;hfxtjhuohxgfjk”hUaojshpjgqngbhxaahoejhojyjbsut,hpejhzjgohoxhqsjppk
Zejghpejhzuphqsjppjqhugqhnghejsheuo,hpejhbyugfjqhubunghngoxhoejhjcjphxa
oejhmy tm,hfxtaxsouiyj-yxxlngbhUgg pelukhOejsjhzuph gtnpouluiyj
pctmuoechnghoexpjhbxxq-guo sjqhynooyjhbsuchjcjpk

“Ugg pelu,hqjus,hzeuohuthNhoxhqx?”hpunqhUggu,hpxiingbhugqhpnglngb
ejymyjppychngoxhuhfeunsk

“Zechasjohcx spjyahpx,hUgguhUsluqcjrgu?hZec,hoejsj’phgxoengbhx ohxahoej
zuckhCx hqsnrjhx ohuhynooyj,hugqhno’yyhfejjshcx h m,”hpunqhoejhtunqk

“Cjp,hN’thbxngb,”hpunqhUggu,hsx pngbhejspjyahugqhbjoongbh mkh“Ugqhna
oejsj’phuhojyjbsuthzenyjhN’thuzuc,hpjgqhnohxghoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu’p
kkkhi ohgx,hNhpeuyyhijhiuflhtcpjyak”

“Cjp,hNht pog’ohoengl,hNht pohqxhpxtjoengb,hqsnrjhpxtjzejsj,hugqhtxpo
xahuyy,hbjohx ohxahoenphex pj,”hpejhpunq,hajjyngbhznoehojssxshoej
posugbjho stxnyhbxngbhxghnghejshxzghejuso,hugqhpejhtuqjheupojhoxhbxhx o
ugqhbjohngoxhoejhfussnubjk

“Zejsjhox?”hupljqhMcxoshijaxsjhbjoongbhxgoxhoejhixvk

“OxhDgutjglu,hoejhXiyxgplcp’k”


Feumojsh28

Nohzuphisnbeohugqhp ggckhUhangjhsungheuqhijjghauyyngbhuyyhoejhtxsgngb,
ugqhgxzhnoheuqhgxohyxgbhfyjusjqh mkhOejhnsxghsxxap,hoejhayubphxahoej
sxuqp,hoejhayngophxahoejhmurjtjgop,hoejhzejjyphugqhyjuoejs,hoejhisupp
ugqhoejhongmyuojhxahoejhfussnubjp—uyyhbynpojgjqhisnbeoychnghoejhTuc
p gpengjkhNohzuphoesjjhx’fyxfl,hugqhoejhrjschynrjynjpohontjhnghoej
posjjopk

Uphpejhpuohnghuhfxsgjshxahoejhfxtaxsouiyjhfussnubj,hoeuoheusqychpzucjq
xghnophp mmyjhpmsngbp,hzenyjhoejhbsucphosxoojqhpznaoyc,hnghoejhtnqpohxa
oejh gfjupngbhsuooyjhxahzejjyphugqhoejhfeugbngbhntmsjppnxgphnghoejhm sj
uns,hUgguhsughxrjshoejhjrjgophxahoejhyupohqucp,hugqhpejhpuzhejs
mxpnonxghw nojhqnaajsjgoychasxthexzhnoheuqhpjjtjqhuohextjkhGxzhoej
oex beohxahqjuoehpjjtjqhgxhyxgbjshpxhojssniyjhugqhpxhfyjushoxhejs,hugq
qjuoehnopjyahgxhyxgbjshpjjtjqhpxhngjrnouiyjkhGxzhpejhiyutjqhejspjyahaxs
oejhe tnynuonxghoxhzenfehpejheuqhyxzjsjqhejspjyakh“Nhjgosjuohenthox
axsbnrjhtjkhNheurjhbnrjghnghoxhentkhNheurjhxzgjqhtcpjyahnghau yokhZeuo
axs?hFug’ohNhynrjhznoex ohent?”hUgqhyjurngbh gugpzjsjqhoejhw jponxghexz
pejhzuphbxngbhoxhynrjhznoex ohent,hpejhajyyhoxhsjuqngbhoejhpnbgphxghoej
pexmpkh“Xaanfjhugqhzusjex pjkhQjgouyhp sbjxgkhCjp,hN’yyhojyyhQxyychuyy
uix ohnokhPejhqxjpg’ohynljhRsxgplckhNhpeuyyhijhpnflhugqhupeutjq,hi o
N’yyhojyyhejskhPejhyxrjphtj,hugqhN’yyhaxyyxzhejshuqrnfjkhNhzxg’ohbnrj
nghoxhent;hNhzxg’ohyjohenthosunghtjhuphejhmyjupjpkhAnynmmxr,hi ghpexmk
Oejchpuchoejchpjgqhoejnshqx behoxhMjojspi sbkhOejhTxpfxzhzuojshnphpx
bxxqhaxshnokhUe,hoejhpmsngbphuohTnonpeofejg,hugqhoejhmugfuljp!”

Ugqhpejhsjtjtijsjqhexz,hyxgb,hyxgbhubx,hzejghpejhzuphuhbnsyhxa
pjrjgojjg,hpejheuqhbxgjhznoehejshu gohoxhOsxnopukh“Snqngb,hoxxkhZup
oeuohsjuyychtj,hznoehsjqheugqp?hExzht fehoeuohpjjtjqhoxhtjhoejg
pmyjgqnqhugqhx ohxahsjufeheuphijfxtjhzxsoeyjpp,hzenyjhzeuohNheuqhoejg
euphbxgjhx ohxahtchsjufehaxsjrjs!hFx yqhNhjrjsheurjhijynjrjqhoejghoeuo
Nhfx yqhfxtjhoxhp fehe tnynuonxg?hExzhfxgfjnojqhugqhpjya-puonpanjqhej
znyyhijhzejghejhbjophtchgxoj!hI ohNhznyyhpexzhentkkkkhExzhexssnqhoeuo
mungohptjyyp!hZechnphnohoejc’sjhuyzucphmungongbhugqhi nyqngb?h_Txqjphjo
sxijp,_hpejhsjuqkhUhtughixzjqhoxhejskhNohzuphUgg pelu’phe piugqkh“X s
musupnojp”;hpejhsjtjtijsjqhexzhRsxgplcheuqhpunqhoeuokh“X s?hZechx s?
Zeuo’phpxhuza yhnphoeuohxgjhfug’ohojush mhoejhmupohichnophsxxopkhXgj
fug’ohojushnohx o,hi ohxgjhfughenqjhxgj’phtjtxschxahnokhUgqhN’yyhenqj
nok”hUgqhoejghpejhoex beohxahejshmupohznoehUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hxa
exzhpejheuqhiyxoojqhoejhtjtxschxahnohx ohxahejshynajkh“Qxyychznyyhoengl
N’thyjurngbhtchpjfxgqhe piugq,hugqhpxhNhfjsoungycht pohijhnghoejhzsxgbk
UphnahNhfusjqhoxhijhsnbeo!hNhfug’ohejymhno!”hpejhpunq,hugqhpejhzugojq
oxhfsckhI ohuohxgfjhpejhajyyhoxhzxgqjsngbhzeuohoexpjhozxhbnsyphfx yqhij
ptnyngbhuix okh“Yxrj,htxpohynljyckhOejchqxg’ohlgxzhexzhqsjuschnohnp,
exzhyxzkkkkhOejhix yjrusqhugqhoejhfenyqsjgkhOesjjhixcphs ggngb,hmyucngb
uohexspjpkhPjscxdeu!hUgqhN’thyxpngbhjrjscoengbhugqhgxohbjoongbhent
iuflkhCjp,hN’thyxpngbhjrjscoengb,hnahejhqxjpg’ohsjo sgkhMjseumphejhzup
yuojhaxshoejhosunghugqheuphfxtjhiuflhichgxzkhYxgbngbhaxshe tnynuonxg
ubung!”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyakh“Gx,hN’yyhbxhoxhQxyyc,hugqhpuchposunbeo
x ohoxhejs,hN’th geummc,hNhqjpjsrjhoenp,hN’thoxhiyutj,hi ohponyyhN’t
 geummc,hejymhtjkhOejpjhexspjp,hoenphfussnubj—exzhyxuoepxtjhNhuthox
tcpjyahnghoenphfussnubj—uyyhenp;hi ohNhzxg’ohpjjhoejthubungk”

Oenglngbhxrjshoejhzxsqphnghzenfehpejhzx yqhojyyhQxyyc,hugqhtjgouyyc
zxslngbhejshejusoh mhoxhbsjuohinoojsgjpp,hUgguhzjgoh mpounspk

“Nphoejsjhugcxgjhznoehejs?”hpejhupljqhnghoejheuyyk

“LuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrguhYjrng,”hugpzjsjqhoejhaxxotugk

“Lnooc!hLnooc,hzexthRsxgplchzuphnghyxrjhznoe!”hoex beohUggu,h“oejhbnsy
ejhoenglphxahznoehyxrjkhEj’phpxsschejhqnqg’ohtusschejskhI ohtjhej
oenglphxahznoeheuosjq,hugqhnphpxsschejheuqhugcoengbhoxhqxhznoehtjk”

Oejhpnpojsphzjsjheurngbhuhfxgp youonxghuix ohg spngbhzejghUgguhfuyyjqk
Qxyychzjgohqxzghuyxgjhoxhpjjhoejhrnpnoxshzexheuqhngojss mojqhoejns
fxgrjspuonxgk

“Zjyy,hpxhcx ’rjhgxohbxgjhuzuchcjo?hNhtjugohoxheurjhfxtjhoxhcx ,”hpej
punq;h“NheuqhuhyjoojshasxthPonruhoxquck”

“Zjheuqhuhojyjbsuthoxx,”hugpzjsjqhUggu,hyxxlngbhsx gqhaxshLnoock

“Ejhzsnojphoeuohejhfug’ohtuljhx ohw nojhzeuohUyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe
zugop,hi ohejhzxg’ohbxhuzuchznoex ohuhqjfnpnrjhugpzjsk”

“Nhoex beohcx heuqhpxtjxgjhznoehcx khFughNhpjjhoejhyjoojs?”

“Cjp;hLnooc,”hpunqhQxyyc,hjtiussuppjqkh“Pejhpoucjqhnghoejhg spjsckhPej
euphijjghrjschnyyk”

“PxhNhejusqkhTuchNhpjjhoejhyjoojs?”

“N’yyhbjohnohqnsjfoyckhI ohejhqxjpg’ohsja pj;hxghoejhfxgosusc,hPonru
euphexmjp,”hpunqhQxyyc,hpoxmmngbhnghoejhqxxszuck

“Nheurjg’o,hugqhngqjjqhNhqxg’ohznpehno,”hpunqhUgguk

“Zeuo’phoenp?hQxjphLnoochfxgpnqjshnohqjbsuqngbhoxhtjjohtj?”hoex beo
Ugguhzejghpejhzuphuyxgjkh“Mjseumphpej’phsnbeo,hoxxkhI ohno’phgxohaxs
ejs,hoejhbnsyhzexhzuphnghyxrjhznoehRsxgplc,hno’phgxohaxshejshoxhpexzhtj
oeuo,hjrjghnahnohnphos jkhNhlgxzhoeuohnghtchmxpnonxghNhfug’ohij
sjfjnrjqhichugchqjfjgohzxtugkhNhlgjzhoeuohasxthoejhanspohtxtjgohN
pufsnanfjqhjrjscoengbhoxhentkhUgqhoenphnphtchsjzusq!hXe,hexzhNheuoj
ent!hUgqhzeuohqnqhNhfxtjhejsjhaxs?hN’thzxspjhejsj,htxsjhtnpjsuiyjk”hPej
ejusqhasxthoejhgjvohsxxthoejhpnpojsp’hrxnfjphnghfxgp youonxgkh“Ugqhzeuo
uthNhbxngbhoxhpuchoxhQxyychgxz?hUt pjhLnoochichoejhpnbeohxahtc
zsjofejqgjpp,hp itnohoxhejshmuosxgndngb?hGx;hugqhijpnqjp,hQxyyc
zx yqg’oh gqjspougqkhUgqhnohzx yqhijhgxhbxxqhtchojyyngbhejskhNohzx yq
xgychijhngojsjpongbhoxhpjjhLnooc,hoxhpexzhejshexzhNhqjpmnpjhjrjscxgj
ugqhjrjscoengb,hexzhgxoengbhtuoojsphoxhtjhgxzk”

QxyychfutjhnghznoehoejhyjoojskhUgguhsjuqhnohugqheugqjqhnohiuflhng
pnyjgfjk

“Nhlgjzhuyyhoeuo,”hpejhpunq,h“ugqhnohqxjpg’ohngojsjpohtjhnghoejhyjupok”

“Xe,hzechpx?hXghoejhfxgosusc,hNheurjhexmjp,”hpunqhQxyyc,hyxxlngb
ngw npnonrjychuohUggukhPejheuqhgjrjshpjjghejshnghp fehuhposugbjyc
nssnouiyjhfxgqnonxgkh“Zejghusjhcx hbxngbhuzuc?”hpejhupljqk

Uggu,heuya-fyxpngbhejshjcjp,hyxxljqhposunbeohijaxsjhejshugqhqnqhgxo
ugpzjsk

“ZechqxjphLnoochpesnglhasxthtj?”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngbhuohoejhqxxshugq
ay pengbhsjqk

“Xe,hzeuohgxgpjgpj!hPej’phg spngb,hugqhoengbphusjg’ohbxngbhsnbeohznoe
ejs,hugqhN’rjhijjghuqrnpngbhejskkkkhPej’phqjynbeojqkhPej’yyhijhejsjhng
uhtng oj,”hpunqhQxyychuzlzusqyc,hgxohfyjrjshuohycngbkh“Cjp,hejsjhpej
npk”

EjusngbhoeuohUgguheuqhfuyyjq,hLnoocheuqhzugojqhgxohoxhummjus,hi ohQxyyc
mjsp uqjqhejskhSuyycngbhejshaxsfjp,hLnoochzjgohng,hzuyljqh mhoxhejs,
iy pengb,hugqhpexxlheugqpk

“Nhuthpxhbyuqhoxhpjjhcx ,”hpejhpunqhznoehuhosjtiyngbhrxnfjk

Lnoocheuqhijjghoesxzghngoxhfxga pnxghichoejhngzusqhfxgaynfohijozjjghejs
ugoubxgnpthoxhoenphiuqhzxtughugqhejshqjpnsjhoxhijhgnfjhoxhejskhI ohup
pxxghuphpejhpuzhUggu’phyxrjychugqhuoosufonrjhaufj,huyyhajjyngbhxa
ugoubxgnpthqnpummjusjqk

“Nhpex yqhgxoheurjhijjghp smsnpjqhnahcx heuqhgxohfusjqhoxhtjjohtjkhN’t
 pjqhoxhjrjscoengbkhCx heurjhijjghnyy?hCjp,hcx husjhfeugbjq,”hpunq
Ugguk

LnoochajyohoeuohUgguhzuphyxxlngbhuohejshznoehexponyjhjcjpkhPejhupfsnijq
oenphexponynochoxhoejhuzlzusqhmxpnonxghnghzenfehUggu,hzexheuqhxgfj
muosxgndjqhejs,ht pohajjyhznoehejshgxz,hugqhpejhajyohpxsschaxshejsk

OejchouyljqhxahLnooc’phnyygjpp,hxahoejhiuic,hxahPonru,hi ohnohzup
xirnx phoeuohgxoengbhngojsjpojqhUgguk

“Nhfutjhoxhpuchbxxq-icjhoxhcx ,”hpejhpunq,hbjoongbh mk

“Xe,hzejghusjhcx hbxngb?”

I ohubunghgxohugpzjsngb,hUgguho sgjqhoxhLnoock

“Cjp,hNhuthrjschbyuqhoxheurjhpjjghcx ,”hpejhpunqhznoehuhptnyjkh“Nheurj
ejusqhpxht fehxahcx hasxthjrjscxgj,hjrjghasxthcx she piugqkhEjhfutjhox
pjjhtj,hugqhNhynljqhenthjvfjjqngbyc,”hpejhpunq,h gtnpouluiychznoe
tuynfnx phngojgokh“Zejsjhnphej?”

“Ejheuphbxgjhiuflhoxhoejhfx gosc,”hpunqhLnooc,hiy pengbk

“Sjtjtijshtjhoxhent,hijhp sjhcx hqxk”

“N’yyhijhp sjhox!”hLnoochpunqhguïrjyc,hyxxlngbhfxtmuppnxguojychngoxhejs
jcjpk

“Pxhbxxq-icj,hQxyyck”hUgqhlnppngbhQxyychugqhpeulngbheugqphznoehLnooc,
Ugguhzjgohx ohe ssnjqyck

“Pej’ph. pohoejhputjhugqh. pohuphfeustngb!hPej’phrjschyxrjyc!”hpunq
Lnooc,hzejghpejhzuphuyxgjhznoehejshpnpojskh“I ohoejsj’phpxtjoengb
mnojx phuix ohejskhUza yychmnojx p!”

“Cjp,hoejsj’phpxtjoengbh g p uyhuix ohejshoxquc,”hpunqhQxyyckh“ZejghN
zjgohznoehejshngoxhoejheuyy,hNhaugfnjqhpejhzuphuytxpohfscngbk”


Feumojsh29

Ugguhbxohngoxhoejhfussnubjhubunghnghughjrjghzxspjhasutjhxahtngqhoeug
zejghpejhpjohx ohasxthextjkhOxhejshmsjrnx phoxso sjphzuphuqqjqhgxzhoeuo
pjgpjhxahtxsonanfuonxghugqhxahijngbhughx ofupohzenfehpejheuqhajyohpx
qnpongfoychxghtjjongbhLnoock

“Zejsjhox?hExtj?”hupljqhMcxosk

“Cjp,hextj,”hpejhpunq,hgxohjrjghoenglngbhgxzhzejsjhpejhzuphbxngbk

“Exzhoejchyxxljqhuohtjhuphpxtjoengbhqsjuqa y,hngfxtmsjejgpniyj,hugq
f snx p!hZeuohfughejhijhojyyngbhoejhxoejshznoehp fehzustoe?”hpej
oex beo,hpousngbhuohozxhtjghzexhzuyljqhickh“Fughxgjhjrjshojyyhugcxgj
zeuohxgjhnphajjyngb?hNhtjugohoxhojyyhQxyyc,hugqhno’phuhbxxqhoengbhN
qnqg’ohojyyhejskhExzhmyjupjqhpejhzx yqheurjhijjghuohtchtnpjsc!hPej
zx yqheurjhfxgfjuyjqhno,hi ohejshfenjahajjyngbhzx yqheurjhijjghqjynbeo
uohtchijngbhm gnpejqhaxshoejheummngjpphpejhjgrnjqhtjhaxskhLnooc,hpej
zx yqheurjhijjghjrjghtxsjhmyjupjqkhExzhNhfughpjjhoesx behejs!hPejhlgxzp
Nhzuphtxsjhoeugh p uyychpzjjohoxhejshe piugqkhUgqhpej’ph.juyx phugq
euojphtjkhUgqhpejhqjpmnpjphtjkhNghejshjcjphN’thughnttxsuyhzxtugkhNahN
zjsjhughnttxsuyhzxtughNhfx yqheurjhtuqjhejshe piugqhauyyhnghyxrjhznoe
tjhkkkhnahN’qhfusjqhoxkhUgq,hngqjjq,hNhqnqhfusjhoxkhOejsj’phpxtjxgj
zex’phmyjupjqhznoehentpjya,”hpejhoex beo,huphpejhpuzhuhauo,hs inf gq
bjgoyjtughfxtngbhoxzusqphejskhEjhoxxlhejshaxshughufw ungougfj,hugq
ynaojqhenphbyxppcheuohuixrjhenphiuyq,hbyxppchejuq,hugqhoejghmjsfjnrjq
enphtnpouljkh“Ejhoex beohejhlgjzhtjkhZjyy,hejhlgxzphtjhuphzjyyhup
ugcxgjhnghoejhzxsyqhlgxzphtjkhNhqxg’ohlgxzhtcpjyakhNhlgxzhtchummjonojp,
uphoejhAsjgfehpuckhOejchzugohoeuohqnsochnfjhfsjut,hoeuohoejchqxhlgxz
axshfjsoung,”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhuohozxhixcphpoxmmngbhughnfjhfsjut
pjyyjs,hzexhoxxlhuhiussjyhxaahenphejuqhugqhijbughznmngbhenphmjspmnsngb
aufjhznoehuhoxzjykh“ZjhuyyhzugohzeuohnphpzjjohugqhgnfjkhNahgxo
pzjjotjuop,hoejghuhqnsochnfjkhUgqhLnooc’phoejhputj—nahgxohRsxgplc,hoejg
YjrngkhUgqhpejhjgrnjphtj,hugqheuojphtjkhUgqhzjhuyyheuojhjufehxoejskhN
Lnooc,hLnoochtjkhCjp,hoeuo’phoejhos oekh‘_On olng,hfxnaaj sk_’h_.jhtj
aunphfxnaajshmushOn olngkkkk_hN’yyhojyyhenthoeuohzejghejhfxtjp,”hpej
oex beohugqhptnyjqkhI ohoejhputjhngpougohpejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohpejheuqhgx
xgjhgxzhoxhojyyhugcoengbhut pngbhoxkh“Ugqhoejsj’phgxoengbhut pngb,
gxoengbhtnsoea y,hsjuyyckhNo’phuyyheuoja ykhOejc’sjhpngbngbhaxs
rjpmjsp,hugqhexzhfusja yychoeuohtjsfeugohfsxppjphentpjya!huphnahejhzjsj
uasunqhxahtnppngbhpxtjoengbkhZechoejpjhfe sfejphugqhoenphpngbngbhugq
oenphe ti b?hPntmychoxhfxgfjuyhoeuohzjhuyyheuojhjufehxoejshynljhoejpj
fuihqsnrjsphzexhusjhui pngbhjufehxoejshpxhugbsnyckhCupernghpucp,h‘Ej
zugophoxhposnmhtjhxahtchpenso,hugqhNhenthxahenpk’hCjp,hoeuo’phoej
os oe!”

Pejhzuphmy gbjqhnghoejpjhoex beop,hzenfehpxhjgbsxppjqhejshoeuohpejhyjao
xaahoenglngbhxahejshxzghmxpnonxg,hzejghoejhfussnubjhqsjzh mhuohoej
pojmphxahejshex pjkhNohzuphxgychzejghpejhpuzhoejhmxsojshs ggngbhx ohox
tjjohejshoeuohpejhsjtjtijsjqhpejheuqhpjgohoejhgxojhugqhoejhojyjbsutk

“Nphoejsjhughugpzjs?”hpejhngw nsjqk

“N’yyhpjjhoenphtng oj,”hugpzjsjqhoejhmxsojs,hugqhbyugfngbhngoxhenp
sxxt,hejhoxxlhx ohugqhburjhejshoejhoenghpw usjhjgrjyxmjhxahuhojyjbsutk
“Nhfug’ohfxtjhijaxsjhojghx’fyxflk—Rsxgplc,”hpejhsjuqk

“Ugqheupg’ohoejhtjppjgbjshfxtjhiufl?”

“Gx,”hugpzjsjqhoejhmxsojsk

“Oejg,hpngfjhno’phpx,hNhlgxzhzeuohNht pohqx,”hpejhpunq,hugqhajjyngbhu
rub jha schugqhfsurngbhaxshsjrjgbjhsnpngbh mhznoenghejs,hpejhsug
 mpounspkh“N’yyhbxhoxhenthtcpjyakhIjaxsjhbxngbhuzuchaxsjrjs,hN’yyhojyy
enthuyykhGjrjsheurjhNheuojqhugcxgjhuphNheuojhoeuohtug!”hpejhoex beok
Pjjngbhenpheuohxghoejhsufl,hpejhpe qqjsjqhznoehurjspnxgkhPejhqnqhgxo
fxgpnqjshoeuohenphojyjbsuthzuphughugpzjshoxhejshojyjbsuthugqhoeuohej
euqhgxohcjohsjfjnrjqhejshgxojkhPejhmnfo sjqhenthoxhejspjyahuphouylngb
fuytychoxhenphtxoejshugqhMsngfjpphPxsxlnguhugqhsj.xnfngbhuohejs
p aajsngbpkh“Cjp,hNht pohbxhw nflyc,”hpejhpunq,hgxohlgxzngbhcjohzejsj
pejhzuphbxngbkhPejhyxgbjqhoxhbjohuzuchuphw nflychuphmxppniyjhasxthoej
ajjyngbphpejheuqhbxgjhoesx behnghoeuohuza yhex pjkhOejhpjsrugop,hoej
zuyyp,hoejhoengbphnghoeuohex pj—uyyhusx pjqhsjm ypnxghugqheuosjqhnghejs
ugqhyuchynljhuhzjnbeoh mxghejsk

“Cjp,hNht pohbxhoxhoejhsunyzuchpouonxg,hugqhnahej’phgxohoejsj,hoejghbx
oejsjhugqhfuofehentk”hUgguhyxxljqhuohoejhsunyzuchontjouiyjhnghoej
gjzpmumjspkhUghjrjgngbhosunghzjgohuohozxhtng ojphmupohjnbeokh“Cjp,hN
peuyyhijhnghontjk”hPejhburjhxsqjsphaxshoejhxoejshexspjphoxhijhm ohng
oejhfussnubj,hugqhmufljqhnghuhosurjyngb-iubhoejhoengbphgjjqjqhaxshuhajz
qucpkhPejhlgjzhpejhzx yqhgjrjshfxtjhiuflhejsjhubungk

Utxgbhoejhmyugphoeuohfutjhngoxhejshejuqhpejhrub jychqjojstngjqhoeuo
uaojshzeuohzx yqheummjghuohoejhpouonxghxshuohoejhfx gojpp’phex pj,hpej
zx yqhbxhuphaushuphoejhanspohoxzghxghoejhGndegnhsxuqhugqhpoxmhoejsjk

Qnggjshzuphxghoejhouiyj;hpejhzjgoh m,hi ohoejhptjyyhxahoejhisjuqhugq
fejjpjhzuphjgx behoxhtuljhejshajjyhoeuohuyyhaxxqhzuphqnpb pongbkhPej
xsqjsjqhoejhfussnubjhugqhzjgohx okhOejhex pjhoesjzhuhpeuqxzhgxzhsnbeo
ufsxpphoejhposjjo,hi ohnohzuphuhisnbeohjrjgngbhugqhponyyhzusthnghoej
p gpengjkhUgg pelu,hzexhfutjhqxzghznoehejshoengbp,hugqhMcxos,hzexhm o
oejhoengbphnghoejhfussnubj,hugqhoejhfxufetug,hjrnqjgoychx ohxahe txs,
zjsjhuyyheuoja yhoxhejs,hugqhnssnouojqhejshichoejnshzxsqphugqhufonxgpk

“Nhqxg’ohzugohcx ,hMcxosk”

“I ohexzhuix ohoejhonfljo?”

“Zjyy,huphcx hynlj,hnohqxjpg’ohtuoojs,”hpejhpunqhfsxppyck

Mcxosh. tmjqhxghoejhixv,hugqhm oongbhenphustphulntix,hoxyqhoejhfxufetug
oxhqsnrjhoxhoejhixxlngb-xaanfjk


Feumojsh30

“Ejsjhnohnphubung!hUbunghNh gqjspougqhnohuyy!”hUgguhpunqhoxhejspjya,hup
pxxghuphoejhfussnubjheuqhpousojqhugqhpzucngbhynbeoyc,hs tiyjqhxrjshoej
ongchfxiiyjphxahoejhmurjqhsxuq,hugqhubunghxgjhntmsjppnxghaxyyxzjq
sumnqych mxghugxoejsk

“Cjp;hzeuohzuphoejhyupohoengbhNhoex beohxahpxhfyjusyc?”hpejhosnjqhox
sjfuyyhnokh“‘_On olng,hfxnaaj s?_’—gx,hgxohoeuokhCjp,hxahzeuohCuperng
pucp,hoejhpos bbyjhaxshjvnpojgfjhugqheuosjqhnphoejhxgjhoengbhoeuohexyqp
tjghoxbjoejskhGx,hno’phuh pjyjpph.x sgjchcx ’sjhtulngb,”hpejhpunq,
tjgouyychuqqsjppngbhuhmusochnghuhfxufehugqhax s,hjrnqjgoychbxngbhaxshug
jvf spnxghngoxhoejhfx gosckh“Ugqhoejhqxbhcx ’sjhoulngbhznoehcx hznyyhij
gxhejymhoxhcx khCx hfug’ohbjohuzuchasxthcx spjyrjpk”hO sgngbhejshjcjp
nghoejhqnsjfonxghMcxosheuqho sgjqhoxhyxxl,hpejhpuzhuhaufoxsc-eugq
uytxpohqjuq-qs gl,hznoeheugbngbhejuq,hijngbhyjqhuzuchichuhmxynfjtugk
“Fxtj,hej’phax gqhuhw nfljshzuc,”hpejhoex beokh“Fx gohRsxgplchugqhNhqnq
gxohangqhoeuoheummngjpphjnoejs,hoex behzjhjvmjfojqhpxht fehasxthnok”
UgqhgxzhaxshoejhanspohontjhUgguho sgjqhoeuohbyusngbhynbeohnghzenfehpej
zuphpjjngbhjrjscoengbhxghoxhejshsjyuonxgphznoehent,hzenfehpejheuq
enoejsoxhurxnqjqhoenglngbhuix okh“Zeuohzuphnohejhpx beohnghtj?hGxohyxrj
pxht fehuphoejhpuonpaufonxghxahrugnock”hPejhsjtjtijsjqhenphzxsqp,hoej
jvmsjppnxghxahenphaufj,hoeuohsjfuyyjqhughui.jfohpjoojs-qxb,hnghoej
jusychqucphxahoejnshfxggjfonxgkhUgqhjrjscoengbhgxzhfxganstjqhoenpk
“Cjp,hoejsjhzuphoejhosn tmehxahp ffjpphnghentkhXahfx spjhoejsjhzuphyxrj
oxx,hi ohoejhfenjahjyjtjgohzuphoejhmsnqjhxahp ffjppkhEjhixupojqhxahtjk
Gxzhoeuo’phxrjskhOejsj’phgxoengbhoxhijhmsx qhxakhGxohoxhijhmsx qhxa,
i ohoxhijhupeutjqhxakhEjheuphouljghasxthtjhuyyhejhfx yq,hugqhgxzhNhut
gxh pjhoxhentkhEjhnphzjuschxahtjhugqhnphoscngbhgxohoxhijhqnpexgxsuiyj
nghenphijeurnxshoxhtjkhEjhyjohoeuohx ohcjpojsquc—ejhzugophqnrxsfjhugq
tussnubjhpxhuphoxhi sghenphpenmpkhEjhyxrjphtj,hi ohexz?hOejhdjpohnp
bxgj,huphoejhJgbynpehpuckhOeuohajyyxzhzugophjrjscxgjhoxhuqtnsjhenthugq
nphrjscht fehmyjupjqhznoehentpjya,”hpejhoex beo,hyxxlngbhuohuhsjq-aufjq
fyjsl,hsnqngbhxghuhsnqngb-pfexxyhexspjkh“Cjp,hoejsj’phgxohoejhputj
ayurxshuix ohtjhaxshenthgxzkhNahNhbxhuzuchasxthent,huohoejhixooxthxa
enphejusohejhznyyhijhbyuqk”

Oenphzuphgxohtjsjhp mmxpnonxg,hpejhpuzhnohqnpongfoychnghoejhmnjsfngb
ynbeo,hzenfehsjrjuyjqhoxhejshgxzhoejhtjugngbhxahynajhugqhe tug
sjyuonxgpk

“Tchyxrjhljjmphbsxzngbhtxsjhmuppnxguojhugqhjbxnponf,hzenyjhenphnp
zugngbhugqhzugngb,hugqhoeuo’phzechzj’sjhqsnaongbhumusok”hPejhzjgohxg
t pngbkh“Ugqhoejsj’phgxhejymhaxshnokhEjhnphjrjscoengbhaxshtj,hugqhN
zugohenthtxsjhugqhtxsjhoxhbnrjhentpjyah mhoxhtjhjgonsjyckhUgqhejhzugop
txsjhugqhtxsjhoxhbjohuzuchasxthtjkhZjhzuyljqhoxhtjjohjufehxoejsh mhox
oejhontjhxahx shyxrj,hugqhoejghzjheurjhijjghnssjpnponiychqsnaongbhng
qnaajsjgohqnsjfonxgpkhUgqhoejsj’phgxhuyojsngbhoeuokhEjhojyyphtjhN’t
ngpugjych.juyx p,hugqhNheurjhoxyqhtcpjyahoeuohNhuthngpugjych.juyx p;
i ohno’phgxohos jkhN’thgxoh.juyx p,hi ohN’th gpuonpanjqkhI okkkk”hpej
xmjgjqhejshynmp,hugqhpenaojqhejshmyufjhnghoejhfussnubjhnghoej
jvfnojtjgo,husx pjqhichoejhoex beohoeuohp qqjgychpos flhejskh“NahN
fx yqhijhugcoengbhi ohuhtnposjpp,hmuppnxguojychfusngbhaxshgxoengbhi o
enphfusjppjp;hi ohNhfug’ohugqhNhqxg’ohfusjhoxhijhugcoengbhjypjkhUgqhic
oeuohqjpnsjhNhsx pjhurjspnxghnghent,hugqhejhsx pjpha schnghtj,hugqhno
fuggxohijhqnaajsjgokhQxg’ohNhlgxzhoeuohejhzx yqg’ohqjfjnrjhtj,hoeuohej
euphgxhpfejtjphuix ohMsngfjpphPxsxlngu,hoeuohej’phgxohnghyxrjhznoe
Lnooc,hoeuohejhzxg’ohqjpjsohtj!hNhlgxzhuyyhoeuo,hi ohnohtuljphnohgx
ijoojshaxshtjkhNahznoex ohyxrngbhtj,hasxth_q oc_hej’yyhijhbxxqhugqhlngq
oxhtj,hznoex ohzeuohNhzugo,hoeuo’phuhoex pugqhontjphzxspjhoeug
 glngqgjpp!hOeuo’p—ejyy!hUgqhoeuo’ph. pohexzhnohnpkhAxshuhyxgbhzenyj
gxzhejheupg’ohyxrjqhtjkhUgqhzejsjhyxrjhjgqp,heuojhijbngpkhNhqxg’ohlgxz
oejpjhposjjophuohuyykhEnyyphnohpjjtp,hugqhponyyhex pjp,hugqhex pjpkkkk
Ugqhnghoejhex pjphuyzucphmjxmyjhugqhmjxmyjkkkkhExzhtugchxahoejt,hgx
jgq,hugqhuyyheuongbhjufehxoejs!hFxtj,hyjohtjhoschugqhoenglhzeuohNhzugo,
oxhtuljhtjheummckhZjyy?hP mmxpjhNhuthqnrxsfjq,hugqhUyjvjc
UyjvugqsxrnofehyjophtjheurjhPjscxdeu,hugqhNhtusschRsxgplck”hOenglngbhxa
UyjvjchUyjvugqsxrnofe,hpejhuohxgfjhmnfo sjqhenthznoehjvosuxsqngusc
rnrnqgjpphuphoex behejhzjsjhuynrjhijaxsjhejs,hznoehenphtnyq,hynajyjpp,
q yyhjcjp,hoejhiy jhrjngphnghenphzenojheugqp,henphngoxguonxgphugqhoej
fsuflngbhxahenphangbjsp,hugqhsjtjtijsngbhoejhajjyngbhzenfeheuqhjvnpojq
ijozjjghoejt,hugqhzenfehzuphuypxhfuyyjqhyxrj,hpejhpe qqjsjqhznoe
yxuoengbkh“Zjyy,hN’thqnrxsfjq,hugqhijfxtjhRsxgplc’phznajkhZjyy,hznyy
Lnoochfjupjhyxxlngbhuohtjhuphpejhyxxljqhuohtjhoxquc?hGxkhUgqhznyy
Pjscxdeuhyjurjhxaahuplngbhugqhzxgqjsngbhuix ohtchozxhe piugqp?hUgqhnp
oejsjhugchgjzhajjyngbhNhfughuzuljghijozjjghRsxgplchugqhtj?hNphoejsj
mxppniyj,hnahgxoheummngjpp,hpxtjhpxsohxahjupjhasxthtnpjsc?hGx,hgx!”hpej
ugpzjsjqhgxzhznoex ohoejhpynbeojpohejpnouonxgkh“Ntmxppniyj!hZjhusj
qsuzghumusohichynaj,hugqhNhtuljhenph geummngjpp,hugqhejhtngj,hugq
oejsj’phgxhuyojsngbhenthxshtjkhJrjschuoojtmoheuphijjghtuqj,hoejhpfsjz
euphfxtjh gpfsjzjqkhXe,huhijbbushzxtughznoehuhiuickhPejhoenglphN’t
pxsschaxshejskhUsjg’ohzjhuyyhay gbhngoxhoejhzxsyqhxgychoxheuojhjufe
xoejs,hugqhpxhoxhoxso sjhx spjyrjphugqhjufehxoejs?hPfexxyixcp
fxtngb—yu bengbhPjscxdeu?”hpejhoex beokh“Nhoex beo,hoxx,hoeuohNhyxrjq
ent,hugqh pjqhoxhijhox fejqhichtchxzghojgqjsgjppkhI ohNheurjhynrjq
znoex ohent,hNhburjhenth mhaxshugxoejshyxrj,hugqhqnqhgxohsjbsjohoej
jvfeugbjhonyyhoeuohyxrjhzuphpuonpanjqk”hUgqhznoehyxuoengbhpejhoex beo
xahzeuohpejhtjugohichoeuohyxrjkhUgqhoejhfyjusgjpphznoehzenfehpejhpuz
ynajhgxz,hejshxzghugqhuyyhtjg’p,hzuphuhmyjup sjhoxhejskh“No’phpxhznoe
tjhugqhMcxos,hugqhoejhfxufetug,hAcxqxs,hugqhoeuohtjsfeugo,hugqhuyyhoej
mjxmyjhynrngbhuyxgbhoejhRxybu,hzejsjhoexpjhmyufusqphngrnojhxgjhoxhbx,
ugqhjrjsczejsjhugqhuyzucp,”hpejhoex beohzejghpejheuqhqsnrjgh gqjshoej
yxz-mnofejqhsxxahxahoejhGndenbxsxqhpouonxg,hugqhoejhmxsojsphsughoxhtjjo
ejsk

“UhonfljohoxhXinsuyxrlu?”hpunqhMcxosk

Pejheuqh oojsychaxsbxoojghzejsjhugqhzechpejhzuphbxngb,hugqhxgychichu
bsjuohjaaxsohpejh gqjspoxxqhoejhw jponxgk

“Cjp,”hpejhpunq,heugqngbhenthejshm spj,hugqhoulngbhuhynooyjhsjqhiubhng
ejsheugq,hpejhbxohx ohxahoejhfussnubjk

Tulngbhejshzuchoesx behoejhfsxzqhoxhoejhanspo-fyupphzunongb-sxxt,hpej
bsuq uyychsjfxyyjfojqhuyyhoejhqjounyphxahejshmxpnonxg,hugqhoejhmyugp
ijozjjghzenfehpejhzuphejpnouongbkhUgqhubunghuohoejhxyqhpxsjhmyufjp,
exmjhugqhoejghqjpmunshmxnpxgjqhoejhzx gqphxahejshoxso sjq,hajusa yyc
oesxiingbhejusokhUphpejhpuohxghoejhpous-peumjqhpxauhzunongbhaxshoej
osung,hpejhbudjqhznoehurjspnxghuohoejhmjxmyjhfxtngbhugqhbxngbh(oejc
zjsjhuyyheuoja yhoxhejs),hugqhoex beohexzhpejhzx yqhussnrjhuohoej
pouonxg,hzx yqhzsnojhenthuhgxoj,hugqhzeuohpejhzx yqhzsnojhoxhent,hugq
exzhejhzuphuohoenphtxtjgohfxtmyungngbhoxhenphtxoejshxahenphmxpnonxg,
gxoh gqjspougqngbhejshp aajsngbp,hugqhexzhpejhzx yqhbxhngoxhoejhsxxt,
ugqhzeuohpejhzx yqhpuchoxhentkhOejghpejhoex beohoeuohynajhtnbeohponyy
ijheummc,hugqhexzhtnpjsuiychpejhyxrjqhugqheuojqhent,hugqhexzhajusa yyc
ejshejusohzuphijuongbk


Feumojsh31

Uhijyyhsugb,hpxtjhcx gbhtjg,h bychugqhntm qjgo,hugqhuohoejhputjhontj
fusja yhxahoejhntmsjppnxghoejchzjsjhtulngb,he ssnjqhickhMcxos,hoxx,
fsxppjqhoejhsxxthnghenphynrjschugqhoxm-ixxop,hznoehenphq yy,hugntuy
aufj,hugqhfutjh mhoxhejshoxhouljhejshoxhoejhosungkhPxtjhgxnpchtjghzjsj
w njohuphpejhmuppjqhoejthxghoejhmyuoaxst,hugqhxgjhzenpmjsjqhpxtjoengb
uix ohejshoxhugxoejs—pxtjoengbhrnyj,hgxhqx iokhPejhpojmmjqh mhxghoej
enbehpojm,hugqhpuohqxzghnghuhfussnubjhichejspjyahxghuhqnsochpjuohoeuo
euqhijjghzenojkhEjshiubhyuchijpnqjhejs,hpeuljgh mhugqhqxzghichoej
pmsngbngjpphxahoejhpjuokhZnoehuhaxxynpehptnyjhMcxoshsunpjqhenpheuo,
znoehnophfxyxsjqhiugq,huohoejhzngqxz,hnghoxljghxahausjzjyy;hughntm qjgo
fxgq foxshpyuttjqhoejhqxxshugqhoejhyuofekhUhbsxojpw j-yxxlngbhyuqc
zjusngbhuhi poyjh(Ugguhtjgouyych gqsjppjqhoejhzxtug,hugqhzuphummuyyjq
uohejshenqjx pgjpp),hugqhuhynooyjhbnsyhyu bengbhuaajfojqychsughqxzghoej
myuoaxstk

“LuojsnguhUgqsjjrgu,hpej’phbxohoejthuyy,h_tuhougoj!_hfsnjqhoejhbnsyk

“Jrjghoejhfenyq’phenqjx phugqhuaajfojq,”hoex beohUggukhOxhurxnqhpjjngb
ugcxgj,hpejhbxoh mhw nflychugqhpjuojqhejspjyahuohoejhxmmxpnojhzngqxzhxa
oejhjtmochfussnubjkhUhtnppeumjg-yxxlngbhmjupugohfxrjsjqhznoehqnso,hnghu
fumhasxthzenfehenphougbyjqheunshpo flhx ohuyyhsx gq,hmuppjqhichoeuo
zngqxz,hpoxxmngbhqxzghoxhoejhfussnubjhzejjypkh“Oejsj’phpxtjoengb
autnynushuix ohoeuohenqjx phmjupugo,”hoex beohUggukhUgqhsjtjtijsngbhejs
qsjut,hpejhtxrjqhuzuchoxhoejhxmmxpnojhqxxs,hpeulngbhznoehojssxskhOej
fxgq foxshxmjgjqhoejhqxxshugqhyjohnghuhtughugqhenphznajk

“Qxhcx hznpehoxhbjohx o?”

UgguhtuqjhgxhugpzjskhOejhfxgq foxshugqhejshozxhajyyxz-muppjgbjsphqnq
gxohgxonfjh gqjshejshrjnyhejshmugnf-posnfljghaufjkhPejhzjgohiuflhoxhejs
fxsgjshugqhpuohqxzgkhOejhfx myjhpjuojqhoejtpjyrjphxghoejhxmmxpnojhpnqj,
ugqhngojgoychi ohp ssjmononx pychpfs ongndjqhejshfyxoejpkhIxoehe piugq
ugqhznajhpjjtjqhsjm ypnrjhoxhUggukhOejhe piugqhupljq,hzx yqhpejhuyyxz
enthoxhptxlj,hxirnx pychgxohznoehuhrnjzhoxhptxlngbhi ohoxhbjoongbhngox
fxgrjspuonxghznoehejskhSjfjnrngbhejshuppjgo,hejhpunqhoxhenphznajhng
Asjgfehpxtjoengbhuix ohfusngbhyjpphoxhptxljhoeughoxhouylkhOejchtuqj
ngugjhugqhuaajfojqhsjtuslphoxhxgjhugxoejs,hjgonsjychaxshejshijgjanok
Ugguhpuzhfyjusychoeuohoejchzjsjhpnflhxahjufehxoejs,hugqheuojqhjufe
xoejskhUgqhgxhxgjhfx yqheurjhejymjqheuongbhp fehtnpjsuiyj
txgposxpnonjpk

Uhpjfxgqhijyyhpx gqjq,hugqhzuphaxyyxzjqhichtxrngbhxahy bbubj,hgxnpj,
pex ongbhugqhyu beojskhNohzuphpxhfyjushoxhUgguhoeuohoejsjhzuphgxoengb
axshugcxgjhoxhijhbyuqhxa,hoeuohoenphyu beojshnssnouojqhejshubxgndngbyc,
ugqhpejhzx yqheurjhynljqhoxhpoxmh mhejshjusphgxohoxhejushnokhUohyupo
oejhoensqhijyyhsugb,hoejsjhzuphuhzenpoyjhugqhuhenpphxahpojut,hugqhu
fyuglhxahfeungp,hugqhoejhtughnghejshfussnubjhfsxppjqhentpjyakh“Nohzx yq
ijhngojsjpongbhoxhuplhenthzeuohtjugngbhejhuooufejphoxhoeuo,”hoex beo
Uggu,hyxxlngbhugbsnychuohentkhPejhyxxljqhmupohoejhyuqchx ohxahoej
zngqxzhuohoejhmjxmyjhzexhpjjtjqhzensyngbhichuphoejchsughijpnqjhoej
osunghxshpoxxqhxghoejhmyuoaxstkhOejhosung,h.jslngbhuohsjb yushngojsruyp
uohoejh. gfonxgphxahoejhsunyp,hsxyyjqhichoejhmyuoaxst,hmupohuhpoxgj
zuyy,huhpnbguy-ixv,hmupohxoejshosungp;hoejhzejjyp,htxrngbhtxsjhptxxoeyc
ugqhjrjgyc,hsjpx gqjqhznoehuhpynbeohfyugbhxghoejhsunypkhOejhzngqxzhzup
ynbeojqh mhichoejhisnbeohjrjgngbhp g,hugqhuhpynbeohisjjdjhay oojsjqhoej
f soungkhUgguhaxsbxohejshajyyxzhmuppjgbjsp,hugqhoxhoejhynbeohpzucngbhxa
oejhosunghpejhajyyhoxhoenglngbhubung,huphpejhisjuoejqhoejhasjpehunsk

“Cjp,hzeuohqnqhNhpoxmhuo?hOeuohNhfx yqg’ohfxgfjnrjhuhmxpnonxghnghzenfe
ynajhzx yqhgxohijhuhtnpjsc,hoeuohzjhusjhuyyhfsjuojqhoxhijhtnpjsuiyj,
ugqhoeuohzjhuyyhlgxzhno,hugqhuyyhngrjgohtjugphxahqjfjnrngbhjufehxoejsk
Ugqhzejghxgjhpjjphoejhos oe,hzeuohnphxgjhoxhqx?”

“Oeuo’phzeuohsjupxghnphbnrjghtughaxs,hoxhjpfumjhasxthzeuohzxssnjphent,”
punqhoejhyuqchnghAsjgfe,hynpmngbhuaajfojqyc,hugqhxirnx pychmyjupjqhznoe
ejshmesupjk

OejhzxsqphpjjtjqhughugpzjshoxhUggu’phoex beopk

“Oxhjpfumjhasxthzeuohzxssnjphent,”hsjmjuojqhUggukhUgqhbyugfngbhuohoej
sjq-fejjljqhe piugqhugqhoejhoenghznaj,hpejhpuzhoeuohoejhpnflychznaj
fxgpnqjsjqhejspjyahtnp gqjspoxxq,hugqhoejhe piugqhqjfjnrjqhejshugq
jgfx subjqhejshnghoeuohnqjuhxahejspjyakhUgguhpjjtjqhoxhpjjhuyyhoejns
enpoxschugqhuyyhoejhfsuggnjphxahoejnshpx yp,huphnohzjsjho sgngbhuhynbeo
 mxghoejtkhI ohoejsjhzuphgxoengbhngojsjpongbhnghoejt,hugqhpejhm sp jq
ejshoex beok

“Cjp,hN’thrjscht fehzxssnjq,hugqhoeuo’phzeuohsjupxghzuphbnrjghtjhaxs,
oxhjpfumj;hpxhoejghxgjht pohjpfumj:hzechgxohm ohx ohoejhynbeohzejg
oejsj’phgxoengbhtxsjhoxhyxxlhuo,hzejghno’phpnfljgngbhoxhyxxlhuohnohuyy?
I ohexz?hZechqnqhoejhfxgq foxshs ghuyxgbhoejhaxxoixusq,hzechusjhoejc
pesnjlngb,hoexpjhcx gbhtjghnghoeuohosung?hzechusjhoejchouylngb,hzechusj
oejchyu bengb?hNo’phuyyhauypjexxq,huyyhycngb,huyyhe ti b,huyy
fs jyoc!kkk”

Zejghoejhosunghfutjhngoxhoejhpouonxg,hUgguhbxohx ohngoxhoejhfsxzqhxa
muppjgbjsp,hugqhtxrngbhumusohasxthoejthuphnahoejchzjsjhyjmjsp,hpej
poxxqhxghoejhmyuoaxst,hoscngbhoxhoenglhzeuohpejheuqhfxtjhejsjhaxs,hugq
zeuohpejhtjugohoxhqxkhJrjscoengbhoeuoheuqhpjjtjqhoxhejshmxppniyjhijaxsj
zuphgxzhpxhqnaanf yohoxhfxgpnqjs,hjpmjfnuyychnghoenphgxnpchfsxzqhxa
enqjx phmjxmyjhzexhzx yqhgxohyjurjhejshuyxgjkhXgjhtxtjgohmxsojsphsugh m
oxhejshmsxaajsngbhoejnshpjsrnfjp,hoejghcx gbhtjg,hfyuflngbhoejnshejjyp
xghoejhmyuglphxahoejhmyuoaxsthugqhouylngbhyx qyc,hpousjqhuohejs;hmjxmyj
tjjongbhejshqxqbjqhmupohxghoejhzsxgbhpnqjkhSjtjtijsngbhoeuohpejheuq
tjugohoxhbxhxgha soejshnahoejsjhzjsjhgxhugpzjs,hpejhpoxmmjqhuhmxsojs
ugqhupljqhnahejshfxufetughzjsjhgxohejsjhznoehuhgxojhasxthFx gohRsxgplck

“Fx gohRsxgplc?hOejchpjgoh mhejsjhasxthoejhRsxgplcph. pohoenphtng oj,
oxhtjjohMsngfjpphPxsxlnguhugqhejshqu beojskhUgqhzeuohnphoejhfxufetug
ynlj?”

. pohuphpejhzuphouylngbhoxhoejhmxsojs,hoejhfxufetughTneuny,hsjqhugq
fejjsa yhnghenphptusohiy jhfxuohugqhfeung,hjrnqjgoychmsx qhxaheurngbhpx
p ffjppa yychmjsaxstjqhenphfxttnppnxg,hfutjh mhoxhejshugqhburjhejshu
yjoojskhPejhisxljhnohxmjg,hugqhejshejusohufejqhijaxsjhpejheuqhsjuqhnok

“Nhuthrjschpxsschcx shgxojhqnqhgxohsjufehtjkhNhznyyhijhextjhuohojg,”
Rsxgplcheuqhzsnoojghfusjyjppyckkkk

“Cjp,hoeuo’phzeuohNhjvmjfojq!”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjyahznoehughjrnyhptnyjk

“Rjschbxxq,hcx hfughbxhextjhoejg,”hpejhpunqhpxaoyc,huqqsjppngbhTneunyk
Pejhpmxljhpxaoychijfu pjhoejhsumnqnochxahejshejuso’phijuongbhengqjsjq
ejshisjuoengbkh“Gx,hNhzxg’ohyjohcx htuljhtjhtnpjsuiyj,”hpejhoex beo
tjgufngbyc,huqqsjppngbhgxohent,hgxohejspjya,hi ohoejhmxzjshoeuohtuqj
ejshp aajs,hugqhpejhzuyljqhuyxgbhoejhmyuoaxstk

Ozxhtunq-pjsrugophzuylngbhuyxgbhoejhmyuoaxstho sgjqhoejnshejuqp,
pousngbhuohejshugqhtulngbhpxtjhsjtuslphuix ohejshqsjppkh“Sjuy,”hoejc
punqhxahoejhyufjhpejhzuphzjusngbkhOejhcx gbhtjghzx yqhgxohyjurjhejshng
mjufjkhUbunghoejchmuppjqhic,hmjjsngbhngoxhejshaufj,hugqhznoehuhyu be
pex ongbhpxtjoengbhnghugh gguo suyhrxnfjkhOejhpouonxg-tupojshfxtngbh m
upljqhejshzejoejshpejhzuphbxngbhichosungkhUhixchpjyyngbhlruphgjrjshoxxl
enphjcjphxaahejskh“TchBxq!hzejsjhuthNhoxhbx?”hpejhoex beo,hbxngb
ausoejshugqhausoejshuyxgbhoejhmyuoaxstkhUohoejhjgqhpejhpoxmmjqkhPxtj
yuqnjphugqhfenyqsjg,hzexheuqhfxtjhoxhtjjohuhbjgoyjtughnghpmjfoufyjp,
mu pjqhnghoejnshyx qhyu beojshugqhouylngb,hugqhpousjqhuohejshuphpej
sjufejqhoejtkhPejhw nfljgjqhejshmufjhugqhzuyljqhuzuchasxthoejthoxhoej
jqbjhxahoejhmyuoaxstkhUhy bbubjhosunghzuphfxtngbhngkhOejhmyuoaxsthijbug
oxhpzuc,hugqhpejhaugfnjqhpejhzuphnghoejhosunghubungk

Ugqhuyyhuohxgfjhpejhoex beohxahoejhtughfs pejqhichoejhosunghoejhquchpej
euqhanspohtjohRsxgplc,hugqhpejhlgjzhzeuohpejheuqhoxhqxkhZnoehuhsumnq,
ynbeohpojmhpejhzjgohqxzghoejhpojmphoeuohyjqhasxthoejhouglhoxhoejhsunyp
ugqhpoxmmjqhw nojhgjushoejhummsxufengbhosungk

Pejhyxxljqhuohoejhyxzjshmusohxahoejhfussnubjp,huohoejhpfsjzphugqhfeungp
ugqhoejhouyyhfupo-nsxghzejjyhxahoejhanspohfussnubjhpyxzychtxrngbh m,
ugqhoscngbhoxhtjup sjhoejhtnqqyjhijozjjghoejhasxgohugqhiuflhzejjyp,hugq
oejhrjschtng ojhzejghoeuohtnqqyjhmxngohzx yqhijhxmmxpnojhejsk

“Oejsj,”hpejhpunqhoxhejspjya,hyxxlngbhngoxhoejhpeuqxzhxahoejhfussnubj,
uohoejhpugqhugqhfxuyhq pohzenfehfxrjsjqhoejhpyjjmjsp—“oejsj,hnghoej
rjschtnqqyj,hugqhNhznyyhm gnpehenthugqhjpfumjhasxthjrjscxgjhugqhasxt
tcpjyak”

Pejhosnjqhoxhayngbhejspjyahijyxzhoejhzejjyphxahoejhanspohfussnubjhuphno
sjufejqhejs;hi ohoejhsjqhiubhzenfehpejhosnjqhoxhqsxmhx ohxahejsheugq
qjyucjqhejs,hugqhpejhzuphoxxhyuoj;hpejhtnppjqhoejhtxtjgokhPejheuqhox
zunohaxshoejhgjvohfussnubjkhUhajjyngbhp fehuphpejheuqhlgxzghzejghuix o
oxhouljhoejhanspohmy gbjhnghiuoengbhfutjh mxghejs,hugqhpejhfsxppjq
ejspjyakhOeuohautnynushbjpo sjhisx beohiuflhngoxhejshpx yhuhzexyj
pjsnjphxahbnsynpehugqhfenyqnpehtjtxsnjp,hugqhp qqjgychoejhquslgjpphoeuo
euqhfxrjsjqhjrjscoengbhaxshejshzuphoxsghumuso,hugqhynajhsxpjh mhijaxsj
ejshaxshughngpougohznoehuyyhnophisnbeohmupoh.xcpkhI ohpejhqnqhgxohoulj
ejshjcjphasxthoejhzejjyphxahoejhpjfxgqhfussnubjkhUgqhjvufoychuohoej
txtjgohzejghoejhpmufjhijozjjghoejhzejjyphfutjhxmmxpnojhejs,hpejhqsxmmjq
oejhsjqhiub,hugqhqsuzngbhejshejuqhiuflhngoxhejshpex yqjsp,hajyyhxghejs
eugqph gqjshoejhfussnubj,hugqhynbeoyc,huphoex behpejhzx yqhsnpjhubung
uohxgfj,hqsxmmjqhxghoxhejshlgjjpkhUgqhuohoejhputjhngpougohpejhzup
ojssxs-posnfljghuohzeuohpejhzuphqxngbkh“ZejsjhuthN?hZeuohuthNhqxngb?
Zeuohaxs?”hPejhosnjqhoxhbjoh m,hoxhqsxmhiuflzusqp;hi ohpxtjoengbhe bj
ugqhtjsfnyjpphpos flhejshxghoejhejuqhugqhsxyyjqhejshxghejshiuflkh“Yxsq,
axsbnrjhtjhuyy!”hpejhpunq,hajjyngbhnohntmxppniyjhoxhpos bbyjkhUhmjupugo
t oojsngbhpxtjoengbhzuphzxslngbhuohoejhnsxghuixrjhejskhUgqhoejhynbeohic
zenfehpejheuqhsjuqhoejhixxlhanyyjqhznoehosx iyjp,hauypjexxqp,hpxssxz,
ugqhjrny,hayusjqh mhtxsjhisnbeoychoeughjrjshijaxsj,hynbeojqh mhaxshejs
uyyhoeuoheuqhijjghnghquslgjpp,haynfljsjq,hijbughoxhbsxzhqnt,hugqhzup
w jgfejqhaxsjrjsk






MUSOhJNBEO


Feumojsh1

UytxpohozxhtxgoepheuqhmuppjqkhOejhexohp ttjshzupheuyahxrjs,hi ohPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehzuphxgych. pohmsjmusngbhoxhyjurjhTxpfxzk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phynajheuqhgxohijjgh gjrjgoa yhq sngbhoenphontjkhU
cjushubxhejheuqhangnpejqhenphixxl,hoejhas nohxahpnvhcjusp’hyuixs,
“PljofehxahuhP srjchxahoejhMsngfnmyjphugqhAxstphxahBxrjsgtjgohnghJ sxmj
ugqhS ppnuk”hPjrjsuyhpjfonxgphxahoenphixxlhugqhnophngosxq fonxgheuq
ummjusjqhnghmjsnxqnfuyhm iynfuonxgp,hugqhxoejshmusopheuqhijjghsjuqhic
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehoxhmjspxgphxahenphfnsfyj,hpxhoeuohoejhyjuqngbhnqjup
xahoejhzxslhfx yqhgxohijhfxtmyjojychgxrjyhoxhoejhm iynfkhI ohponyy
PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhjvmjfojqhoeuohxghnophummjusugfjhenphixxlhzx yqhij
p sjhoxhtuljhuhpjsnx phntmsjppnxghxghpxfnjoc,hugqhnahnohqnqhgxohfu pjhu
sjrxy onxghnghpxfnuyhpfnjgfjhnohzx yq,huohugchsuoj,htuljhuhbsjuohpons
nghoejhpfnjgonanfhzxsyqk

Uaojshoejhtxpohfxgpfnjgonx phsjrnpnxghoejhixxlheuqhyupohcjushijjg
m iynpejq,hugqheuqhijjghqnposni ojqhutxgbhoejhixxlpjyyjspk

Oex behejhupljqhgxhxgjhuix ohno,hsjy fougoychugqhznoehajnbgjq
ngqnaajsjgfjhugpzjsjqhenphasnjgqp’hngw nsnjphuphoxhexzhoejhixxlhzup
bxngb,hugqhqnqhgxohjrjghngw nsjhxahoejhixxlpjyyjsphexzhoejhixxlhzup
pjyyngb,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphuyyhxghoejhuyjso,hznoehposungjq
uoojgonxg,hzuofengbhaxshoejhanspohntmsjppnxghenphixxlhzx yqhtuljhnghoej
zxsyqhugqhnghynojsuo sjk

I ohuhzjjlhmuppjq,huhpjfxgq,huhoensq,hugqhnghpxfnjochgxhntmsjppnxg
zeuojrjshfx yqhijhqjojfojqkhEnphasnjgqphzexhzjsjhpmjfnuynpophugq
purugop,hxffupnxguyyc— gtnpouluiychasxthmxynojgjpp—uyy qjqhoxhnokhOej
sjpohxahenphufw ungougfjp,hgxohngojsjpojqhnghuhixxlhxghuhyjusgjq
p i.jfo,hqnqhgxohouylhxahnohuohuyykhUgqhpxfnjochbjgjsuyyc—. pohgxz
jpmjfnuyychuipxsijqhnghxoejshoengbp—zuphuipxy ojychngqnaajsjgokhNghoej
msjpp,hoxx,haxshuhzexyjhtxgoehoejsjhzuphgxohuhzxsqhuix ohenphixxlk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhfuyf yuojqhoxhuhgnfjochoejhontjhgjfjppuschaxs
zsnongbhuhsjrnjz,hi ohuhtxgoehmuppjq,hugqhuhpjfxgq,hugqhponyyhoejsjhzup
pnyjgfjk

Xgychnghoejh_GxsoejsghIjjoyj_,hnghuhfxtnfhusonfyjhxghoejhpngbjs
Qsuiugon,hzexheuqhyxpohenphrxnfj,hoejsjhzuphuhfxgojtmo x phuyy pnxghox
Lxdgnpejr’phixxl,hp bbjpongbhoeuohoejhixxlheuqhijjghyxgbhubxhpjjg
oesx behichjrjscxgj,hugqhzuphuhp i.jfohxahbjgjsuyhsnqnf yjk

Uohyupohnghoejhoensqhtxgoehuhfsnonfuyhusonfyjhummjusjqhnghuhpjsnx p
sjrnjzkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehlgjzhoejhu oexshxahoejhusonfyjkhEjheuqhtjo
enthxgfjhuohBxy iopxr’pk

Oejhu oexshxahoejhusonfyjhzuphuhcx gbhtug,hughngruynq,hrjschixyqhuphu
zsnojs,hi ohjvosjtjychqjanfnjgohnghisjjqngbhugqhpechnghmjspxguy
sjyuonxgpk

Nghpmnojhxahenphuipxy ojhfxgojtmohaxshoejhu oexs,hnohzuphznoehfxtmyjoj
sjpmjfohoeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehpjohuix ohsjuqngbhoejhusonfyjkhOej
usonfyjhzuphuza yk

Oejhfsnonfheuqh gqx iojqychm ohughngojsmsjouonxgh mxghoejhixxlhzenfe
fx yqhgxohmxppniychijhm ohxghnokhI ohejheuqhpjyjfojqhw xouonxgphpx
uqsxnoychoeuohaxshmjxmyjhzexheuqhgxohsjuqhoejhixxlh(ugqhxirnx pyc
pfusfjychugcxgjheuqhsjuqhno)hnohpjjtjqhuipxy ojychfyjushoeuohoejhzexyj
ixxlhzuphgxoengbhi ohuhtjqyjchxahenbe-ayxzghmesupjp,hgxohjrjg—up
p bbjpojqhichtuslphxahngojssxbuonxg— pjqhummsxmsnuojyc,hugqhoeuohoej
u oexshxahoejhixxlhzuphuhmjspxghuipxy ojychznoex ohlgxzyjqbjhxahoej
p i.jfokhUgqhuyyhoenphzuphpxhznoonychqxgjhoeuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzx yq
gxoheurjhqnpxzgjqhp fehznohentpjyakhI ohoeuohzuph. pohzeuohzuphpx
uza yk

Nghpmnojhxahoejhpfs m yx phfxgpfnjgonx pgjpphznoehzenfehPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehrjsnanjqhoejhfxssjfogjpphxahoejhfsnonf’phusb tjgop,hejhqnq
gxohaxshuhtng ojhpoxmhoxhmxgqjshxrjshoejhau yophugqhtnpouljphzenfehzjsj
snqnf yjq;hi oh gfxgpfnx pychejhijbughnttjqnuojychoscngbhoxhsjfuyy
jrjschqjounyhxahenphtjjongbhugqhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhu oexshxahoej
usonfyjk

“Qnqg’ohNhxaajgqhenthnghpxtjhzuc?”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzxgqjsjqk

Ugqhsjtjtijsngbhoeuohzejghoejchtjohejheuqhfxssjfojqhoejhcx gbhtughuix o
pxtjoengbhejheuqhpunqhoeuohijosucjqhnbgxsugfj,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehax gq
oejhfy jhoxhjvmyunghoejhusonfyjk

Oenphusonfyjhzuphaxyyxzjqhichuhqjuqychpnyjgfjhuix ohoejhixxlhixoehng
oejhmsjpphugqhnghfxgrjspuonxg,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehpuzhoeuohenphpnv
cjusp’houpl,hoxnyjqhuohznoehp fehyxrjhugqhyuixs,heuqhbxgj,hyjurngbhgx
osufjk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phmxpnonxghzuphponyyhtxsjhqnaanf yohasxthoejhaufo
oeuo,hpngfjhejheuqhangnpejqhenphixxl,hejheuqheuqhgxhtxsjhynojsuschzxsl
oxhqx,hp fehupheuqhenoejsoxhxff mnjqhoejhbsjuojshmusohxahenphontjk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuphfyjrjs,hf yonruojq,hejuyoec,hugqhjgjsbjonf,hugq
ejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzeuoh pjhoxhtuljhxahenphjgjsbckhFxgrjspuonxgphng
qsuzngb-sxxtp,hnghtjjongbp,huppjtiynjp,hugqhfxttnoojjp—jrjsczejsjhzejsj
ouylhzuphmxppniyj—oxxlh mhmusohxahenphontjkhI ohijngbh pjqhaxshcjusphox
oxzghynaj,hejhqnqhgxohzupojhuyyhenphjgjsbnjphnghouyl,huphenphyjpp
jvmjsnjgfjqhcx gbjshisxoejshqnq,hzejghejhzuphnghTxpfxzkhEjheuqhuhbsjuo
qjuyhxahyjnp sjhugqhngojyyjfo uyhjgjsbchponyyhoxhqnpmxpjhxak

Axso guojychaxshent,huohoenphmjsnxqhpxhqnaanf yohaxshenthasxthoej
auny sjhxahenphixxl,hoejhrusnx phm iynfhw jponxgphxahoejhqnppjgongb
pjfop,hxahoejhUtjsnfughuyynugfj,hxahoejhPutusuhautngj,hxahjveninonxgp,
ugqhxahpmnsno uynpt,hzjsjhqjangnojychsjmyufjqhnghm iynfhngojsjpohichoej
Pyurxgnfhw jponxg,hzenfeheuqhenoejsoxhsuoejshyugb nqychngojsjpojq
pxfnjoc,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzexheuqhijjghxgjhxahoejhanspohoxhsunpj
oenphp i.jfo,hoesjzhentpjyahngoxhnohejusohugqhpx yk

NghoejhfnsfyjhoxhzenfehPjsbjchNrugxrnofehijyxgbjq,hgxoengbhzuphouyljq
xahxshzsnoojghuix oh. pohgxzhi ohoejhPjsrnughZuskhJrjscoengbhoeuohoej
nqyjhfsxzqh p uyychqxjphoxhlnyyhontjhzuphqxgjhgxzhaxshoejhijgjanohxa
oejhPyurxgnfhPouojpkhIuyyp,hfxgfjsop,hqnggjsp,htuofeixvjp,hyuqnjp’
qsjppjp,hijjs,hsjpou sugop—jrjscoengbhojponanjqhoxhpctmuoechznoehoej
Pyurxgnfhmjxmyjpk

Asxtht fehxahzeuohzuphpmxljghugqhzsnoojghxghoejhp i.jfo,hPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehqnaajsjqhxghrusnx phmxngopkhEjhpuzhoeuohoejhPyurxgnf
w jponxgheuqhijfxtjhxgjhxahoexpjhaupenxguiyjhqnposufonxgphzenfehp ffjjq
xgjhugxoejshnghmsxrnqngbhpxfnjochznoehughxi.jfohugqhughxff muonxgkhEj
puz,hoxx,hoeuohuhbsjuohtugchmjxmyjhzjsjhoulngbh mhoejhp i.jfohasxt
txonrjphxahpjya-ngojsjpohugqhpjya-uqrjsonpjtjgokhEjhsjfxbgndjqhoeuohoej
gjzpmumjsphm iynpejqhuhbsjuohqjuyhoeuohzuphp mjsay x phugqhjvubbjsuojq,
znoehoejhpxyjhunthxahuoosufongbhuoojgonxghugqhx oinqqngbhxgjhugxoejsk
Ejhpuzhoeuohnghoenphbjgjsuyhtxrjtjgohoexpjhzexhoes pohoejtpjyrjphtxpo
axszusqhugqhpex ojqhoejhyx qjpohzjsjhtjghzexheuqhaunyjqhugqhzjsj
ptusongbh gqjshuhpjgpjhxahng. sc—bjgjsuyphznoex ohustnjp,htngnpojsphgxo
nghoejhtngnposc,h.x sguynpophgxohxghugchmumjs,hmusochyjuqjsphznoex o
axyyxzjspkhEjhpuzhoeuohoejsjhzuphuhbsjuohqjuyhnghnohoeuohzuphasnrxyx p
ugqhuip sqkhI ohejhpuzhugqhsjfxbgndjqhugh gtnpouluiyjhbsxzngb
jgoe pnupt,h gnongbhuyyhfyuppjp,hznoehzenfehnohzuphntmxppniyjhgxohox
pctmuoendjkhOejhtuppufsjhxahtjghzexhzjsjhajyyxzhFesnponugp,hugqhxahoej
putjhPyurxgnfhsufj,hjvfnojqhpctmuoechaxshoejhp aajsjsphugqhngqnbguonxg
ubungpohoejhxmmsjppxspkhUgqhoejhejsxnpthxahoejhPjsrnugphugq
Txgojgjbsngphpos bbyngbhaxshuhbsjuohfu pjhijbxohnghoejhzexyjhmjxmyjhu
yxgbngbhoxhejymhoejnshisxoejsphgxohnghzxsqhi ohnghqjjqk

I ohnghoenphoejsjhzuphugxoejshupmjfohoeuohsj.xnfjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek
Oeuohzuphoejhtugnajpouonxghxahm iynfhxmngnxgkhOejhm iynfheuqhqjangnojyc
jvmsjppjqhnophqjpnsjkhOejhpx yhxahoejhmjxmyjheuq,huphPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
punq,hax gqhjvmsjppnxgkhUgqhoejhtxsjhejhzxsljqhnghoenphfu pj,hoejhtxsj
ngfxgojpouiyjhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohnohzuphuhfu pjhqjpongjqhoxhupp tj
rupohqntjgpnxgp,hoxhfsjuojhughjmxfek

Ejhoesjzhentpjyahejusohugqhpx yhngoxhoejhpjsrnfjhxahoenphbsjuohfu pj,
ugqhaxsbxohoxhoenglhuix ohenphixxlkhEnphzexyjhontjhgxzhzuphjgbsxppjqhic
no,hpxhoeuohejhfx yqhpfusfjychtugubjhoxhugpzjshuyyhoejhyjoojsphugq
ummjuyphuqqsjppjqhoxhentkhEjhzxsljqhoejhzexyjhpmsngbhugqhmusohxahoej
p ttjs,hugqhnohzuphxgychngh. ychoeuohejhmsjmusjqhoxhbxhuzuchoxhenp
isxoejs’phnghoejhfx gosck

Ejhzuphbxngbhixoehoxhsjpohaxshuhaxsognbeo,hugqhnghoejhrjschejusohxahoej
mjxmyj,hnghoejhausoejpohznyqphxahoejhfx gosc,hoxhjg.xchoejhpnbeohxa
oeuoh mynaongbhxahoejhpmnsnohxahoejhmjxmyj,hxahzenfe,hynljhuyy
sjpnqjgophnghoejhfumnouyhugqhinbhoxzgp,hejhzupha yychmjsp uqjqk
Luourupxrheuqhyxgbhijjghtjugngbhoxhfusschx ohenphmsxtnpjhoxhpouchznoe
Yjrng,hugqhpxhejhzuphbxngbhznoehentk

Feumojsh2

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhLuourupxrheuqhxgych. pohsjufejqhoejhpouonxghxa
oejhL splhyngj,hzenfehzuphmusonf yusychi pchugqha yyhxahmjxmyjhoeuo
quc,hzejg,hyxxlngbhsx gqhaxshoejhbsxxthzexhzuphaxyyxzngbhznoehoejns
oengbp,hoejchpuzhuhmusochxahrxy gojjsphqsnrngbh mhnghax shfuipkhYuqnjp
tjohoejthznoehix w jophxahayxzjsp,hugqhaxyyxzjqhichoejhs pengbhfsxzq
oejchzjgohngoxhoejhpouonxgk

Xgjhxahoejhyuqnjp,hzexheuqhtjohoejhrxy gojjsp,hfutjhx ohxahoejheuyyhugq
uqqsjppjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Cx hoxxhfxtjhoxhpjjhoejthxaa?”hpejhupljqhnghAsjgfek

“Gx,hN’thbxngbhuzuchtcpjya,hmsngfjppkhOxhtchisxoejs’phaxshuhexynquckhQx
cx huyzucphpjjhoejthxaa?”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehznoehuheusqyc
mjsfjmoniyjhptnyjk

“Xe,hoeuohzx yqhijhntmxppniyj!”hugpzjsjqhoejhmsngfjppkh“Nphnohos jhoeuo
jnbeohe gqsjqheurjhijjghpjgohasxth phuysjuqc?hTuyrngplchzx yqg’o
ijynjrjhtjk”

“Txsjhoeughjnbeohe gqsjqkhNahcx hsjflxghoexpjhzexheurjhijjghpjgohgxo
qnsjfoychasxthTxpfxz,hxrjshuhoex pugq,”hugpzjsjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Oejsj!hOeuo’ph. pohzeuohNhpunq!”hjvfyuntjqhoejhyuqckh“Ugqhno’phos j
oxx,hNhp mmxpj,hoeuohtxsjhoeughuhtnyynxgheuphijjghp ipfsnijq?”

“Cjp,hmsngfjppk”

“Zeuohqxhcx hpuchoxhoxquc’phojyjbsut?hIjuojghoejhO slphubungk”

“Cjp,hpxhNhpuz,”hugpzjsjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofekhOejchzjsjhpmjulngbhxahoej
yupohojyjbsuthpouongbhoeuohoejhO slpheuqhijjghaxshoesjjhqucphng
p ffjppnxghijuojghuohuyyhmxngophugqhm ohoxhaynbeo,hugqhoeuohoxtxssxzhu
qjfnpnrjhjgbubjtjgohzuphjvmjfojqk

“Ue,hichoejhzuc,huhpmyjgqnqhcx gbhajyyxzheuphupljqhyjurjhoxhbx,hugq
oejc’rjhtuqjhpxtjhqnaanf yoc,hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzeckhNhtjugohoxhuplhcx ;hN
lgxzhent;hmyjupjhzsnojhuhgxojhuix ohenphfupjkhEj’phijngbhpjgohic
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrguk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehupljqhaxshuyyhoejhqjounyphoejhmsngfjpphlgjzhuix ohoej
cx gbhtug,hugqhbxngbhngoxhoejhanspo-fyupphzunongb-sxxt,hzsxojhuhgxojhox
oejhmjspxghxghzexthoejhbsugongbhxahyjurjhxahuipjgfjhqjmjgqjq,hugq
eugqjqhnohoxhoejhmsngfjppk

“Cx hlgxzhFx gohRsxgplc,hoejhgxoxsnx phxgjhkkkhnphbxngbhichoenphosung?”
punqhoejhmsngfjpphznoehuhptnyjha yyhxahosn tmehugqhtjugngb,hzejghej
ax gqhejshubunghugqhburjhejshoejhyjoojsk

“Nheuqhejusqhejhzuphbxngb,hi ohNhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejgkhIchoenphosung?”

“N’rjhpjjghentkhEj’phejsj:hoejsj’phxgychenphtxoejshpjjngbhenthxaakhNo’p
oejhijpohoengb,hugczuc,hoeuohejhfx yqhqxk”

“Xe,hcjp,hxahfx spjk”

Zenyjhoejchzjsjhouylngbhoejhfsxzqhposjutjqhichoejthngoxhoej
qngngb-sxxtkhOejchzjgohaxszusqhoxx,hugqhejusqhuhbjgoyjtughznoehuhbyupp
nghenpheugqhqjynrjsngbhuhyx qhqnpfx spjhoxhoejhrxy gojjspkh“Nghoej
pjsrnfjhxahsjynbnxg,he tugnoc,hugqhx shisxoejsp,”hoejhbjgoyjtughpunq,
enphrxnfjhbsxzngbhyx qjshugqhyx qjs;h“oxhoenphbsjuohfu pjhtxoejshTxpfxz
qjqnfuojphcx hznoehejshiyjppngbkh_.nrnx!_hejhfxgfy qjq,hyx qychugq
ojusa yyck

Jrjscxgjhpex ojqh_.nrnx!_hugqhuhasjpehfsxzqhqupejqhngoxhoejheuyy,
uytxpohfusscngbhoejhmsngfjpphxaahejshyjbpk

“Ue,hmsngfjpp!hoeuohzuphpxtjoengbhynlj!”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,
p qqjgychummjusngbhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhfsxzqhugqhijutngbh mxghoejt
znoehuhqjynbeojqhptnyjkh“Fumnouyyc,hzustychpunq,hzupg’ohno?hIsurx!hUgq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe!hZec,hcx hx beohoxheurjhpunqhpxtjoengb—. pohuhajz
zxsqp,hcx hlgxz,hoxhjgfx subjhoejt;hcx hqxhoeuohpxhzjyy,”hejhuqqjqhznoe
uhpxao,hsjpmjfoa y,hugqhqnpfsjjohptnyj,htxrngbhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
axszusqhuhynooyjhichoejhustk

“Gx,hN’th. pohxaak”

“Zejsjhox?”

“Oxhoejhfx gosc,hoxhtchisxoejs’p,”hugpzjsjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Oejghcx ’yyhpjjhtchznajkhN’rjhzsnoojghoxhejs,hi ohcx ’yyhpjjhejs
anspokhMyjupjhojyyhejshoeuohoejc’rjhpjjghtjhugqhoeuohno’ph‘uyyhsnbeo,’
uphoejhJgbynpehpuckhPej’yyh gqjspougqkhXe,hugqhijhpxhbxxqhuphoxhojyy
ejshN’thummxngojqhpjfsjouschxahoejhfxttnoojjkkkkhI ohpej’yyh gqjspougq!
Cx hlgxz,h_yjphmjonojphtnpèsjphqjhyuhrnjhe tungj,_”hejhpunq,huphnohzjsj
umxyxbndngbhoxhoejhmsngfjppkh“UgqhMsngfjpphTculucu—gxohYndu,hi o
Ininpe—nphpjgqngbhuhoex pugqhb gphugqhozjyrjhg spjpkhQnqhNhojyyhcx ?”

“Cjp,hNhejusqhpx,”hugpzjsjqhLxdgnpejrhngqnaajsjgoyck

“No’phuhmnochcx ’sjhbxngbhuzuc,”hpunqhPojmughUsluqcjrnofekh“Oxtxssxz
zj’sjhbnrngbhuhqnggjshoxhozxhzex’sjhpjoongbhxaa—Qntjs-Iusogcugplchasxt
Mjojspi sbhugqhx shRjpyxrplc,hBsnpeukhOejc’sjhixoehbxngbkhRjpyxrplc’p
xgychyuojychtussnjqkhOejsj’phuhangjhajyyxzhaxshcx !hJe,hmsngfjpp?”hej
o sgjqhoxhoejhyuqck

OejhmsngfjpphyxxljqhuohLxdgnpejrhznoex ohsjmycngbkhI ohoejhaufohoeuo
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhoejhmsngfjpphpjjtjqhugvnx phoxhbjohsnqhxahenthqnq
gxohnghoejhyjupohqnpfxgfjsohPojmughUsluqcjrnofekhPtnyngb,hejhpousjqhuo
oejhajuoejshnghoejhmsngfjpp’pheuo,hugqhoejghuix ohenthuphoex behejhzjsj
bxngbhoxhmnflhpxtjoengbh mkhPjjngbhuhyuqchummsxufengbhznoehuhfxyyjfongb
ixv,hejhijflxgjqhejsh mhugqhm ohnghuhanrj-sx iyjhgxojk

“Nhfughgjrjshpjjhoejpjhfxyyjfongbhixvjph gtxrjqhzenyjhN’rjhtxgjchnghtc
mxfljo,”hejhpunqkh“Ugqhexzhuix ohoxquc’phojyjbsut?hAngjhfeumphoexpj
Txgojgjbsngp!”

“Cx hqxg’ohpuchpx!”hejhfsnjq,hzejghoejhmsngfjpphoxyqhenthoeuohRsxgplc
zuphbxngbhichoenphosungkhAxshughngpougohPojmughUsluqcjrnofe’phaufj
yxxljqhpuq,hi ohuhtng ojhyuojs,hzejg,hposxlngbhenpht poufejphugq
pzngbngbhuphejhzuyljq,hejhzjgohngoxhoejheuyyhzejsjhRsxgplchzup,hejheuq
fxtmyjojychaxsbxoojghenphxzghqjpmunsngbhpxiphxrjshenphpnpojs’phfxsmpj,
ugqhejhpuzhnghRsxgplchxgychuhejsxhugqhughxyqhasnjgqk

“Znoehuyyhenphau yophxgjhfug’ohsja pjhoxhqxhenth. ponfj,”hpunqhoej
msngfjpphoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehuphpxxghuphPojmughUsluqcjrnofeheuqhyjao
oejtkh“ZeuohuhocmnfuyychS ppnug,hPyurhguo sj!hXgyc,hN’thuasunqhnohzxg’o
ijhmyjupugohaxshRsxgplchoxhpjjhentkhPuchzeuohcx hznyy,hN’thox fejqhic
oeuohtug’phauojkhQxhouylhoxhenthuhynooyjhxghoejhzuc,”hpunqhoej
msngfjppk

“Cjp,hmjseump,hnahnoheummjgphpxk”

“NhgjrjshynljqhentkhI ohoenphuoxgjphaxshuhbsjuohqjuykhEj’phgxohtjsjyc
bxngbhentpjya,hej’phoulngbhuhpw uqsxghuohenphxzghjvmjgpjk”

“Cjp,hpxhNhejusqk”

Uhijyyhpx gqjqkhJrjscxgjhfsxzqjqhoxhoejhqxxspkh“Ejsjhejhnp!”hpunqhoej
msngfjpp,hngqnfuongbhRsxgplc,hzexhznoehenphtxoejshxghenphusthzuyljqhic,
zjusngbhuhyxgbhxrjsfxuohugqhznqj-isnttjqhiyuflheuokhXiyxgplchzup
zuylngbhijpnqjhent,houylngbhjubjsychxahpxtjoengbk

Rsxgplchzuphasxzgngbhugqhyxxlngbhposunbeohijaxsjhent,huphoex behejhqnq
gxohejushzeuohPojmughUsluqcjrnofehzuphpucngbk

MsxiuiychxghXiyxgplc’phmxngongbhoejthx o,hejhyxxljqhsx gqhnghoej
qnsjfonxghzejsjhoejhmsngfjpphugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzjsjhpougqngb,hugq
znoex ohpmjulngbhynaojqhenpheuokhEnphaufj,hubjqhugqhzxsghichp aajsngb,
yxxljqhpoxgck

Bxngbhxgoxhoejhmyuoaxst,hRsxgplchyjaohenphtxoejshugqhqnpummjusjqhngoxhu
fxtmusotjgok

Xghoejhmyuoaxsthoejsjhsugbhx oh“BxqhpurjhoejhOpus,”hoejghpex ophxa
“e ssue!”hugqh_“.nrnx!”_hXgjhxahoejhrxy gojjsp,huhouyy,hrjschcx gbhtug
znoehuhexyyxzhfejpo,hzuphmusonf yusychfxgpmnf x p,hixzngbhugqhzurngb
enphajyoheuohugqhuhgxpjbuchxrjshenphejuqkhOejghozxhxaanfjsphjtjsbjq,
ixzngbhoxx,hugqhuhpox ohtughznoehuhinbhijusq,hzjusngbhuhbsjupchaxsubj
fumk


Feumojsh3

Pucngbhbxxq-icjhoxhoejhmsngfjpp,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehzuph.xngjqhic
Luourupxr;hoxbjoejshoejchbxohngoxhuhfussnubjha yyhoxhxrjsayxzngb,hugq
oejhosunghpousojqk

UohOpusnopngxhpouonxghoejhosunghzuphtjohichuhfexs phxahcx gbhtjg
pngbngbh“EunyhoxhOejj!”hUbunghoejhrxy gojjsphixzjqhugqhmxljqhoejns
ejuqphx o,hi ohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehmunqhgxhuoojgonxghoxhoejtkhEjheuqheuq
pxht fehoxhqxhznoehoejhrxy gojjsphoeuohoejhocmjhzuphautnynushoxhenthugq
qnqhgxohngojsjpohentkhLuourupxr,hzexpjhpfnjgonanfhzxslheuqhmsjrjgojq
enpheurngbhuhfeugfjhxahxipjsrngbhoejthenoejsox,hzuphrjscht fe
ngojsjpojqhnghoejthugqhw jponxgjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehuqrnpjqhenthoxhbxhngoxhoejhpjfxgq-fyupphugqhouylhox
oejthentpjyakhUohoejhgjvohpouonxghLuourupxrhufojqhxghoenphp bbjponxgk

Uohoejhanspohpoxmhejhtxrjqhngoxhoejhpjfxgq-fyupphugqhtuqjhoej
ufw ungougfjhxahoejhrxy gojjspkhOejchzjsjhpnoongbhnghuhfxsgjshxahoej
fussnubj,houylngbhyx qychugqhxirnx pychuzusjhoeuohoejhuoojgonxghxahoej
muppjgbjsphugqhLuourupxrhuphejhbxohnghzuphfxgfjgosuojqh mxghoejtkhTxsj
yx qychoeughuyyhouyljqhoejhouyy,hexyyxz-fejpojqhcx gbhtugkhEjhzup
 gtnpouluiychonmpc,hugqhzuphsjyuongbhpxtjhpoxschoeuoheuqhxff ssjqhuo
enphpfexxykhAufngbhenthpuohuhtnqqyj-ubjqhxaanfjshnghoejhU posnug
tnynousch.ufljohxahoejhB usqph gnaxstkhEjhzuphynpojgngbhznoehuhptnyjhox
oejhexyyxz-fejpojqhcx oe,hugqhxffupnxguyychm yyngbhenth mkhOejhoensq,
nghughusonyyjsch gnaxst,hzuphpnoongbhxghuhixvhijpnqjhoejtkhUhax soehzup
upyjjmk

Jgojsngbhngoxhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhcx oe,hLuourupxrhyjusgjqhoeuohej
zuphuhzjuyoechTxpfxzhtjsfeugohzexheuqhs ghoesx behuhyusbjhaxso gj
ijaxsjhejhzuphozx-ugq-ozjgockhLuourupxrhqnqhgxohynljhent,hijfu pjhej
zuph gtugychugqhjaajtnguojhugqhpnflyckhEjhzuphxirnx pychfxgrngfjq,
jpmjfnuyychgxzhuaojshqsnglngb,hoeuohejhzuphmjsaxstngbhuhejsxnfhufonxg,
ugqhejhisubbjqhxahnohnghoejhtxpoh gmyjupugohzuck

Oejhpjfxgq,hoejhsjonsjqhxaanfjs,htuqjhugh gmyjupugohntmsjppnxghoxxh mxg
LuourupxrkhEjhzup,hnohpjjtjq,huhtughzexheuqhosnjqhjrjscoengbkhEjheuq
ijjghxghuhsunyzuc,heuqhijjghuhyugq-pojzusq,hugqheuqhpousojqhaufoxsnjp,
ugqhejhouyljq,hw nojhznoex ohgjfjppnoc,hxahuyyhejheuqhqxgj,hugqh pjq
yjusgjqhjvmsjppnxgphw nojhngummsxmsnuojyck

Oejhoensq,hoejhusonyyjsctug,hxghoejhfxgosusc,hpos flhLuourupxrhrjsc
aurxsuiyckhEjhzuphuhw njo,htxqjpohajyyxz,h gtnpouluiychntmsjppjqhichoej
lgxzyjqbjhxahoejhxaanfjshugqhoejhejsxnfhpjya-pufsnanfjhxahoejhtjsfeugo
ugqhpucngbhgxoengbhuix ohentpjyakhZejghLuourupxrhupljqhenthzeuoheuq
ntmjyyjqhenthoxhbxhoxhPjsrnu,hejhugpzjsjqhtxqjpoyc:

“Xe,hzjyy,hjrjscxgj’phbxngbkhOejhPjsrnugphzugohejym,hoxxkhN’thpxsschaxs
oejtk”

“Cjp,hcx husonyyjsctjghjpmjfnuyychusjhpfusfjhoejsj,”hpunqhLuourupxrk

“Xe,hNhzupg’ohyxgbhnghoejhusonyyjsc,htucijhoejc’yyhm ohtjhngoxhoej
ngaugoschxshoejhfuruysck”

“Ngoxhoejhngaugoschzejghoejchgjjqhusonyyjschtxsjhoeughugcoengb?”hpunq
Luourupxr,haugfcngbhasxthoejhusonyyjsctug’phummusjgohubjhoeuohejht po
eurjhsjufejqhuhaunsychenbehbsuqjk

“Nhzupg’ohyxgbhnghoejhusonyyjsc;hN’thuhfuqjohsjonsjq,”hejhpunq,hugqhej
ijbughoxhjvmyunghexzhejheuqhaunyjqhnghenphjvutnguonxgk

UyyhxahoenphoxbjoejshtuqjhuhqnpubsjjuiyjhntmsjppnxghxghLuourupxr,hugq
zejghoejhrxy gojjsphbxohx ohuohuhpouonxghaxshuhqsngl,hLuourupxrhzx yq
eurjhynljqhoxhfxtmusjhenph gaurxsuiyjhntmsjppnxghnghfxgrjspuonxghznoe
pxtjxgjkhOejsjhzuphughxyqhtughnghoejhfussnubj,hzjusngbhuhtnynousc
xrjsfxuo,hzexheuqhijjghynpojgngbhuyyhoejhzenyjhoxhLuourupxr’p
fxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhrxy gojjspkhZejghoejchzjsjhyjaohuyxgj,hLuourupxr
uqqsjppjqhentk

“Zeuohqnaajsjgohmxpnonxgphoejchfxtjhasxt,huyyhoexpjhajyyxzphzexhusj
bxngbhxaahoejsj,”hLuourupxrhpunqhrub jyc,hgxohznpengbhoxhjvmsjpphenp
xzghxmngnxg,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhugvnx phoxhangqhx ohoejhxyqhtug’p
rnjzpk

OejhxyqhtughzuphughxaanfjshzexheuqhpjsrjqhxghozxhfutmunbgpkhEjhlgjz
zeuohtuljphuhpxyqnjs,hugqh. qbngbhichoejhummjusugfjhugqhoejhouylhxa
oexpjhmjspxgp,hichoejhpzubbjshznoehzenfehoejcheuqhsjfx spjhoxhoej
ixooyjhxghoejh.x sgjc,hejhfxgpnqjsjqhoejthmxxshpxyqnjspkhTxsjxrjs,hej
ynrjqhnghuhqnposnfohoxzg,hugqhejhzuphyxgbngbhoxhojyyhexzhxgjhpxyqnjs
euqhrxy gojjsjqhasxthenphoxzg,huhqs glusqhugqhuhoenjahzexthgxhxgjhzx yq
jtmyxchuphuhyuixsjskhI ohlgxzngbhichjvmjsnjgfjhoeuohnghoejhmsjpjgo
fxgqnonxghxahoejhm iynfhojtmjshnohzuphqugbjsx phoxhjvmsjpphughxmngnxg
xmmxpjqhoxhoejhbjgjsuyhxgj,hugqhjpmjfnuyychoxhfsnonfndjhoejhrxy gojjsp
 gaurxsuiyc,hejhoxxhzuofejqhLuourupxrhznoex ohfxttnoongbhentpjyak

“Zjyy,htjghusjhzugojqhoejsj,”hejhpunq,hyu bengbhznoehenphjcjpkhUgqhoejc
ajyyhoxhouylngbhxahoejhyupohzushgjzp,hugqhjufehfxgfjuyjqhasxthoejhxoejs
enphmjsmyjvnochuphoxhoejhjgbubjtjgohjvmjfojqhgjvohquc,hpngfjhoejhO slp
euqhijjghijuojg,huffxsqngbhoxhoejhyuojpohgjzp,huohuyyhmxngopkhUgqhpx
oejchmusojq,hgjnoejshbnrngbhjvmsjppnxghoxhenphxmngnxgk

Luourupxrhzjgohiuflhoxhenphxzghfussnubj,hugqhznoehsjy fougohecmxfsnpc
sjmxsojqhoxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehenphxipjsruonxgphxahoejhrxy gojjsp,hasxt
zenfehnohzx yqhummjushoeuohoejchzjsjhfumnouyhajyyxzpk

Uohuhinbhpouonxghuohuhoxzghoejhrxy gojjsphzjsjhubunghbsjjojqhznoe
pex ophugqhpngbngb,hubunghtjghugqhzxtjghznoehfxyyjfongbhixvjphummjusjq,
ugqhmsxrngfnuyhyuqnjphisx beohix w jophoxhoejhrxy gojjsphugqhaxyyxzjq
oejthngoxhoejhsjasjpetjgohsxxt;hi ohuyyhoenphzuphxghuht fehptuyyjshugq
ajjiyjshpfuyjhoeughnghTxpfxzk


Feumojsh4

Zenyjhoejhosunghzuphpoxmmngbhuohoejhmsxrngfnuyhoxzg,hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
qnqhgxohbxhoxhoejhsjasjpetjgohsxxt,hi ohzuyljqh mhugqhqxzghoej
myuoaxstk

OejhanspohontjhejhmuppjqhRsxgplc’phfxtmusotjgohejhgxonfjqhoeuohoej
f sounghzuphqsuzghxrjshoejhzngqxz;hi ohuphejhmuppjqhnohoejhpjfxgqhontj
ejhpuzhoejhxyqhfx gojpphuohoejhzngqxzkhPejhijflxgjqhoxhLxdgnpejrk

“N’thbxngb,hcx hpjj,houlngbhenthuphaushuphL spl,”hpejhpunqk

“Cjp,hpxhNhejusq,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hpougqngbhuohejshzngqxzhugq
mjjmngbhngkh“Zeuohuhgxiyjhufohxghenphmuso!”hejhuqqjq,hgxonfngbhoeuo
Rsxgplchzuphgxohnghoejhfxtmusotjgok

“Cjp,huaojshenphtnpaxso gj,hzeuohzuphoejsjhaxshenthoxhqx?”

“Zeuohuhojssniyjhoengbhnohzup!”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Ue,hzeuohNheurjhijjghoesx be!hI ohqxhbjohngkkkkhUe,hzeuohNheurjhijjg
oesx be!”hpejhsjmjuojq,hzejghPjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhbxohnghugqhpuohqxzg
ijpnqjhejskh“Cx hfug’ohfxgfjnrjhno!hAxshpnvhzjjlphejhqnqhgxohpmjulhox
ugcxgj,hugqhzx yqhgxohox fehaxxqhjvfjmohzejghNhntmyxsjqhentkhUgqhgxo
axshxgjhtng ojhfx yqhzjhyjurjhenthuyxgjkhZjhoxxlhuzuchjrjscoengbhej
fx yqheurjh pjqhubungpohentpjyakhZjhynrjqhxghoejhbsx gqhayxxs,hi o
oejsjhzuphgxhsjflxgngbhxghugcoengbkhCx hlgxz,hxahfx spj,hoeuohejheuq
pexohentpjyahxgfjhuysjuqchxghejshuffx go,”hpejhpunq,hugqhoejhxyqhyuqc’p
jcjyupejphoznofejqhuohoejhsjfxyyjfonxgkh“Cjp,hejsphzuphoejhanoongbhjgq
axshp fehuhzxtugkhJrjghoejhqjuoehpejhfexpjhzuphyxzhugqhr ybusk”

“No’phgxohaxsh phoxh. qbj,hfx gojpp,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe;h“i ohN
fugh gqjspougqhoeuohnoheuphijjghrjscheusqhaxshcx k”

“Ue,hqxg’ohpmjulhxahno!hNhzuphpoucngbhxghtchjpouoj,hugqhejhzuphznoehtjk
Uhgxojhzuphisx beohentkhEjhzsxojhughugpzjshugqhpjgohnohxaakhZjheuqg’o
ughnqjuhoeuohpejhzuphfyxpjhichuohoejhpouonxgkhNghoejhjrjgngbhNheuqhxgyc
. pohbxgjhoxhtchsxxt,hzejghtchTuschoxyqhtjhuhyuqcheuqhoesxzghejspjya
 gqjshoejhosungkhPxtjoengbhpjjtjqhoxhposnljhtjhuohxgfjkhNhlgjzhnohzup
pejkhOejhanspohoengbhNhpunqhzup,hejhzuphgxohoxhijhoxyqkhI ohoejc’qhoxyq
enthuysjuqckhEnphfxufetughzuphoejsjhugqhpuzhnohuyykhZejghNhsughngoxhenp
sxxt,hejhzuphijpnqjhentpjya—nohzuphajusa yhoxhpjjhentkhEjhqnqg’ohpuchu
zxsq,hi ohbuyyxmjqhxaahoejsjkhNhqxg’ohlgxzhoxhoenphquchzeuoheummjgjq
oejsj,hi ohejhzuphisx beohiuflhuohqjuoe’phqxxskhNhpex yqg’oheurjhlgxzg
entkh_Msxposuonxghfxtmyèoj,_hoejhqxfoxshpunqkhUgqhoeuohzuphaxyyxzjq
uytxpohichtuqgjppkhXe,hzechouylhxahno!”hpunqhoejhfx gojpphznoehuhzurj
xahejsheugqkh“Nohzuphughuza yhontj!hGx,hpuchzeuohcx hznyy,hpejhzuphu
iuqhzxtugkhZec,hzeuohnphoejhtjugngbhxahp fehqjpmjsuojhmuppnxgp?hNohzup
uyyhoxhpexzhejspjyahpxtjoengbhx ohxahoejhzuckhZjyy,hugqhoeuohpejhqnq
qxkhPejhisx beohejspjyahoxhs nghugqhozxhbxxqhtjg—ejshe piugqhugqhtc
 geummchpxgk”

“Ugqhzeuohqnqhejshe piugqhqx?”hupljqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Ejheuphouljghejshqu beojskhUyjvjchzuphsjuqchoxhubsjjhoxhugcoengbhuo
anspokhGxzhnohzxssnjphenthojssniychoeuohejhpex yqheurjhbnrjghenphxzg
fenyqhuzuchoxhugxoejshtugkhI ohejhfug’ohouljhiuflhenphzxsqkhLusjgng
futjhoxhoejha gjsuykhI ohzjhosnjqhoxhmsjrjgohenphtjjongbhUyjvjckhAxs
ent,haxshejshe piugq,hnohzuphjupnjs,hugczuckhPejheuqhpjohenthasjjkhI o
tchmxxshpxghzuph oojsychbnrjgh mhoxhejskhEjheuqhoesxzgh mhjrjscoengb,
enphfusjjs,htj,hugqhjrjghoejghpejheuqhgxhtjsfchxghent,hi ohxahpjo
m smxpjhpejhtuqjhenphs nghfxtmyjojkhGx,hpuchzeuohcx hznyy,hejshrjsc
qjuoehzuphoejhqjuoehxahuhrnyjhzxtug,hxahgxhsjynbnx phajjyngbkhBxq
axsbnrjhtj,hi ohNhfug’ohejymheuongbhoejhtjtxschxahejs,hzejghNhyxxlhuo
tchpxg’phtnpjsc!”

“I ohexzhnphejhgxz?”

“NohzuphuhiyjppngbhasxthMsxrnqjgfjhaxsh p—oenphPjsrnughzuskhN’thxyq,
ugqhNhqxg’oh gqjspougqhoejhsnbeophugqhzsxgbphxahno,hi ohno’phfxtjhuphu
msxrnqjgonuyhiyjppngbhoxhentkhXahfx spjhaxshtj,huphenphtxoejs,hno’p
ojssniyj;hugqhzeuo’phzxspj,hoejchpuc,h_fjhg’jpohmuphosèphinjghr hà
Méojspix sb_khI ohnohfug’ohijhejymjq!hNohzuphoejhxgjhoengbhoeuohfx yq
sx pjhentkhCuperng—uhasnjgqhxahenp—ejheuqhyxpohuyyhejheuqhuohfusqphugq
ejhzuphbxngbhoxhPjsrnukhEjhfutjhoxhpjjhenthugqhmjsp uqjqhenthoxhbxkhGxz
no’phughngojsjpohaxshentkhQxhmyjupjhouylhoxhenthuhynooyjkhNhzugohox
qnposufohenphtngqkhEj’phpxhyxz-pmnsnojqkhUgqhuphiuqhy flhzx yqheurjhno,
ejheuphoxxoeufejhoxxkhI ohej’yyhijhqjynbeojqhoxhpjjhcx khMyjupjhqxhouyl
oxhent;hej’phzuylngbh mhugqhqxzghxghoeuohpnqjk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehpunqhejhzx yqhijhrjschbyuqhox,hugqhfsxppjqhxrjshox
oejhxoejshpnqjhxahoejhpouonxgk


Feumojsh5

Nghoejhpyugongbhjrjgngbhpeuqxzphfupohichoejhiubbubjhmnyjqh mhxghoej
myuoaxst,hRsxgplchnghenphyxgbhxrjsfxuohugqhpyx feheuo,hznoehenpheugqp
nghenphmxfljop,hposxqjh mhugqhqxzg,hynljhuhznyqhijupohnghuhfubj,
o sgngbhpeusmychuaojshozjgochmufjpkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehaugfnjq,huphej
ummsxufejqhent,hoeuohRsxgplchpuzhenthi ohzuphmsjojgqngbhgxohoxhpjjk
OenphqnqhgxohuaajfohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehnghoejhpynbeojpokhEjhzuphuixrj
uyyhmjspxguyhfxgpnqjsuonxgphznoehRsxgplck

UohoeuohtxtjgohPjsbjchNrugxrnofehyxxljqh mxghRsxgplchuphuhtughoulngbhug
ntmxsougohmusohnghuhbsjuohfu pj,hugqhLxdgnpejrhoex beohnohenphq ochox
jgfx subjhenthugqhjvmsjpphenphummsxruykhEjhzjgoh mhoxhentk

Rsxgplchpoxxqhponyy,hyxxljqhngojgoychuohent,hsjfxbgndjqhent,hugqhbxngb
uhajzhpojmphaxszusqhoxhtjjohent,hpexxlheugqphznoehenthrjschzustyck

“Mxppniychcx hqnqg’ohznpehoxhpjjhtj,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,h“i o
fx yqg’ohNhijhxah pjhoxhcx ?”

“Oejsj’phgxhxgjhNhpex yqhyjpphqnpynljhpjjngbhoeughcx ,”hpunqhRsxgplck
“Jvf pjhtj;hugqhoejsj’phgxoengbhnghynajhaxshtjhoxhynljk”

“Nhw nojh gqjspougq,hugqhNhtjsjychtjugohoxhxaajshcx htchpjsrnfjp,”hpunq
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hpfuggngbhRsxgplc’phaufj,ha yyhxah gtnpouluiyj
p aajsngbkh“Zx yqg’ohnohijhxah pjhoxhcx hoxheurjhuhyjoojshox
Snponofe—oxhTnyug?”

“Xe,hgx!”hRsxgplchpunq,hpjjtngbhoxh gqjspougqhenthznoehqnaanf yockh“Na
cx hqxg’ohtngq,hyjo’phzuylhxgkhNo’phpxhpo aachutxgbhoejhfussnubjpkhU
yjoojs?hGx,hoeuglhcx ;hoxhtjjohqjuoehxgjhgjjqphgxhyjoojsphxa
ngosxq fonxgkhGxshaxshoejhO slpkkkk”hejhpunq,hznoehuhptnyjhoeuohzup
tjsjychxahoejhynmpkhEnphjcjphponyyhljmohoejnshyxxlhxahugbschp aajsngbk

“Cjp;hi ohcx htnbeohangqhnohjupnjshoxhbjohngoxhsjyuonxgp,hzenfehusj
uaojshuyyhjppjgonuy,hznoehugcxgjhmsjmusjqhoxhpjjhcx khI ohoeuo’phuphcx 
ynljkhNhzuphrjschbyuqhoxhejushxahcx shngojgonxgkhOejsjheurjhijjghpx
tugchuoouflphtuqjhxghoejhrxy gojjsp,hugqhuhtughynljhcx hsunpjphoejthng
m iynfhjpontuonxgk”

“Tch pjhuphuhtug,”hpunqhRsxgplc,h“nphoeuohynaj’phzxsoehgxoengbhoxhtjk
UgqhoeuohN’rjhjgx behixqnychjgjsbchoxhf ohtchzuchngoxhoejnshsuglp,hugq
oxhosutmyjhxghoejthxshauyy—NhlgxzhoeuokhN’thbyuqhoejsj’phpxtjoengbhox
bnrjhtchynajhaxs,haxshno’phgxohpntmych pjyjpphi ohyxuoepxtjhoxhtjk
Ugcxgj’phzjyfxtjhoxhnok”hUgqhenph.uzhoznofejqhntmuonjgoychasxthoej
ngfjppugohbguzngbhoxxoeufej,hoeuohmsjrjgojqhenthasxthjrjghpmjulngbhznoe
uhguo suyhjvmsjppnxgk

“Cx hznyyhijfxtjhugxoejshtug,hNhmsjqnfo,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
ajjyngbhox fejqkh“Oxhqjynrjshxgj’phisxoejs-tjghasxthixgqubjhnphughunt
zxsoehqjuoehugqhynajkhBxqhbsugohcx hp ffjpphx ozusqyc—ugqhngzusqyc
mjufj,”hejhuqqjq,hugqhejhejyqhx ohenpheugqkhRsxgplchzustychmsjppjqhenp
x oposjofejqheugqk

“Cjp,huphuhzjumxghNhtuchijhxahpxtjh pjkhI ohuphuhtug,hN’thuhzsjfl,”hej
.jsljqhx ok

Ejhfx yqheusqychpmjulhaxshoejhoesxiingbhufejhnghenphposxgbhojjoe,hoeuo
zjsjhynljhsxzphxahnrxschnghenphtx oekhEjhzuphpnyjgo,hugqhenphjcjp
sjpojqhxghoejhzejjyphxahoejhojgqjs,hpyxzychugqhptxxoeychsxyyngbhuyxgb
oejhsunypk

Ugqhuyyhuohxgfjhuhqnaajsjgohmung,hgxohughufej,hi ohughnggjshosx iyj,
oeuohpjohenphzexyjhijngbhnghugb npe,htuqjhenthaxshughngpougohaxsbjohenp
oxxoeufejkhUphejhbyugfjqhuohoejhojgqjshugqhoejhsunyp,h gqjshoej
ngay jgfjhxahoejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehuhasnjgqhejheuqhgxohtjohpngfjhenp
tnpaxso gj,hejhp qqjgychsjfuyyjqh_ejs_—oeuohnp,hzeuohzuphyjaohxahejs
zejghejheuqhs ghynljhxgjhqnposu beohngoxhoejhfyxulhsxxthxahoejhsunyzuc
pouonxg—xghoejhouiyj,hpeutjyjppychpmsuzyngbhx ohutxgbhposugbjsp,hoej
iyxxqpoungjqhixqchpxhyuojycha yyhxahynaj;hoejhejuqh ge sohqsxmmngbhiufl
znoehnophzjnbeohxaheuns,hugqhoejhf syngbhosjppjphuix ohoejhojtmyjp,hugq
oejhjvw npnojhaufj,hznoehsjq,heuya-xmjgjqhtx oe,hoejhposugbj,hanvjq
jvmsjppnxg,hmnojx phxghoejhynmphugqhuza yhnghoejhponyyhxmjghjcjp,hoeuo
pjjtjqhoxh oojshoeuohajusa yhmesupj—oeuohejhzx yqhijhpxsschaxshno—oeuo
pejheuqhpunqhzejghoejchzjsjhw ussjyngbk

Ugqhejhosnjqhoxhoenglhxahejshuphpejhzuphzejghejhtjohejshoejhanspohontj,
uohuhsunyzuchpouonxghoxx,htcpojsnx p,hjvw npnoj,hyxrngb,hpjjlngbhugq
bnrngbheummngjpp,hugqhgxohfs jyychsjrjgbja yhuphejhsjtjtijsjqhejshxg
oeuohyupohtxtjgokhEjhosnjqhoxhsjfuyyhenphijpohtxtjgophznoehejs,hi o
oexpjhtxtjgophzjsjhmxnpxgjqhaxsjrjskhEjhfx yqhxgychoenglhxahejshup
osn tmeugo,hp ffjppa yhnghejshtjgufjhxahuhzexyych pjyjpphsjtxspjhgjrjs
oxhijhjaaufjqkhEjhyxpohuyyhfxgpfnx pgjpphxahoxxoeufej,hugqhenphaufj
zxsljqhznoehpxipk

Muppngbhoznfjh mhugqhqxzghijpnqjhoejhiubbubjhnghpnyjgfjhugqhsjbungngb
enphpjya-mxppjppnxg,hejhuqqsjppjqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehfuytyc:

“Cx heurjheuqhgxhojyjbsutphpngfjhcjpojsquc’p?hCjp,hqsnrjghiuflhaxshu
oensqhontj,hi ohuhqjfnpnrjhjgbubjtjgohjvmjfojqhaxshoxtxssxzk”

UgqhuaojshouylngbhuhynooyjhtxsjhxahLngbhTnyug’phmsxfyutuonxg,hugqhoej
nttjgpjhjaajfohnohtnbeoheurj,hoejchmusojq,hbxngbhoxhoejnshfussnubjphxg
ejusngbhoejhpjfxgqhijyyk


Feumojsh6

PjsbjchNrugxrnofeheuqhgxohojyjbsumejqhoxhenphisxoejshoxhpjgqhoxhtjjo
ent,huphejhqnqhgxohlgxzhzejghejhpex yqhijhuiyjhoxhyjurjhTxpfxzkhYjrng
zuphgxohuohextjhzejghLuourupxrhugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehnghuhaychensjqhuo
oejhpouonxghqsxrjh mhoxhoejhpojmphxahoejhMxlsxrplxjhex pj,huphiyuflhup
Txxsphasxthoejhq pohxahoejhsxuqkhLnooc,hpnoongbhxghoejhiuyfxgchznoehejs
auoejshugqhpnpojs,hsjfxbgndjqhejshisxoejs-ng-yuz,hugqhsughqxzghoxhtjjo
entk

“Zeuohuhpeutjhgxohoxheurjhyjoh phlgxz,”hpejhpunq,hbnrngbhejsheugqhox
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhm oongbhejshaxsjejuqh mhaxshenthoxhlnppk

“Zjhqsxrjhejsjhfumnouyyc,hugqheurjhgxohm ohcx hx o,”hugpzjsjqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofekh“N’thpxhqnsockhN’thuasunqhoxhox fehcx khN’rjhijjghpxhi pc,
Nhqnqg’ohlgxzhzejghNhpex yqhijhuiyjhoxhojushtcpjyahuzuckhUgqhpxhcx ’sj
ponyyhuphjrjshjg.xcngbhcx shmjufja y,hw njoheummngjpp,”hejhpunq,
ptnyngb,h“x ohxahoejhsjufehxahoejhf ssjgohnghcx shmjufja yhiuflzuojsk
Ejsj’phx shasnjgqhAcxqxshRuppnynjrnofehzexheuphp ffjjqjqhnghbjoongb
ejsjhuohyupok”

“I ohN’thgxohuhgjbsx,hNhpeuyyhyxxlhynljhuhe tughijngbhzejghNhzupe,”
punqhLuourupxrhnghenph.jpongbhaupenxg,hugqhejhpexxlheugqphugqhptnyjq,
enphojjoehayupengbhzenojhnghenphiyuflhaufjk

“LxpocuhznyyhijhqjynbeojqkhEjheuphbxgjhoxhenphpjooyjtjgokhNo’phontjhej
pex yqhijhextjk”

“I pchuphjrjshznoehenphaustngbkhNohsjuyychnphuhmjufja yhiuflzuojs,”
punqhLuourupxr;h“zenyjhzjhnghoxzghoenglhxahgxoengbhi ohoejhPjsrnughzusk
Zjyy,hexzhqxjphx shasnjgqhyxxlhuohno?hEj’php sjhgxohoxhoenglhynljhxoejs
mjxmyjk”

“Xe,hNhqxg’ohlgxz,hynljhjrjscixqchjypj,”hLnoochugpzjsjq,huhynooyj
jtiussuppjq,hyxxlngbhsx gqhuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofekh“N’yyhpjgqhoxhajofe
entkhMumu’phpoucngbhznoeh pkhEj’phxgych. pohfxtjhextjhasxthuisxuqk”

UgqhtulngbhussugbjtjgophoxhpjgqhaxshYjrnghugqhaxshoejhb jpophoxhzupe,
xgjhnghenphsxxthugqhoejhxoejshnghzeuoheuqhijjghQxyyc’p,hugqhbnrngb
xsqjsphaxshoejnshy gfejxg,hLnoochsughx ohxgoxhoejhiuyfxgc,hjg.xcngbhoej
asjjqxt,hugqhsumnqnochxahtxrjtjgo,hxahzenfehpejheuqhijjghqjmsnrjq
q sngbhoejhtxgoephxahejshmsjbgugfck

“No’phPjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhLuourupxr,huhmsxajppxs,”hpejhpunqk

“Xe,hoeuo’phuhixsjhnghoenphejuo,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk

“Gx,hmumu,hej’phrjschgnfj,hugqhLxpocu’phrjschaxgqhxahent,”hLnoochpunq,
znoehuhqjmsjfuongbhptnyj,hgxonfngbhoejhnsxgchxghejshauoejs’phaufjk

“Xe,hNhqnqg’ohpuchugcoengbk”

“Cx hbxhoxhoejt,hqusyngb,”hpunqhLnoochoxhejshpnpojs,h“ugqhjgojsoung
oejtkhOejchpuzhPonruhuohoejhpouonxg;hejhzuphw nojhzjyykhUgqhNht pohs g
oxhTnocukhUphnyy-y flhzx yqheurjhno,hNheurjg’ohajqhenthpngfjhojukhEj’p
uzuljhgxz,hugqhp sjhoxhijhpfsjutngbk”hUgqhajjyngbhuhs pehxahtnyl,hpej
e ssnjqhoxhoejhg spjsck

Oenphzuphgxohuhtjsjhb jpp;hejshfxggjfonxghznoehoejhfenyqhzuphponyyhpx
fyxpj,hoeuohpejhfx yqhbu bjhichoejhayxzhxahejshtnylhenphgjjqhxahaxxq,
ugqhlgjzhaxshfjsounghejhzuphe gbsck

Pejhlgjzhejhzuphfscngbhijaxsjhpejhsjufejqhoejhg spjsckhUgqhejhzup
ngqjjqhfscngbkhPejhejusqhenthugqheupojgjqkhI ohoejhaupojshpejhzjgo,hoej
yx qjshejhpfsjutjqkhNohzuphuhangjhejuyoechpfsjut,he gbschugqhntmuonjgok

“Euphejhijjghpfsjutngbhyxgb,hg spj,hrjschyxgb?”hpunqhLnooche ssnjqyc,
pjuongbhejspjyahxghuhfeuns,hugqhmsjmusngbhoxhbnrjhoejhiuichoejhisjupok
“I ohbnrjhtjhenthw nflyckhXe,hg spj,hexzhonsjpxtjhcx husj!hOejsj,honj
oejhfumhuaojszusqp,hqx!”

Oejhiuic’phbsjjqchpfsjuthzuphmuppngbhngoxhpxipk

“I ohcx hfug’ohtugubjhpx,htu’ut,”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hzexhzuphuytxpo
uyzucphoxhijhax gqhnghoejhg spjsckh“Ejht pohijhm ohposunbeokhU-xx!
u-xx!”hpejhfeugojqhxrjshent,hmucngbhgxhuoojgonxghoxhoejhtxoejsk

Oejhg spjhisx beohoejhiuichoxhenphtxoejskhUbuajuhTneuyxrguhaxyyxzjqhent
znoehuhaufjhqnppxyrngbhznoehojgqjsgjppk

“Ejhlgxzphtj,hejhlgxzphtjkhNghBxq’phaunoe,hLuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrgu,
tu’ut,hejhlgjzhtj!”hUbuajuhTneuyxrguhfsnjqhuixrjhoejhiuic’phpfsjutpk

I ohLnoochqnqhgxohejushejshzxsqpkhEjshntmuonjgfjhljmohbsxzngb,hynljhoej
iuic’pk

OejnshntmuonjgfjhengqjsjqhoengbphaxshuhzenyjkhOejhiuichfx yqhgxohbjo
exyqhxahoejhisjupohsnbeo,hugqhzupha snx pk

Uohyupo,huaojshqjpmunsngb,hisjuoeyjpphpfsjutngb,hugqhrunghp flngb,
oengbphzjgohsnbeo,hugqhtxoejshugqhfenyqhajyohpnt yougjx pychpxxoejq,
ugqhixoehp ipnqjqhngoxhfuytk

“I ohmxxshqusyngb,hej’phuyyhnghmjspmnsuonxg!”hpunqhLnoochnghuhzenpmjs,
ox fengbhoejhiuick

“Zeuohtuljphcx hoenglhejhlgxzphcx ?”hpejhuqqjq,hznoehuhpnqjyxgbhbyugfj
uohoejhiuic’phjcjp,hoeuohmjjsjqhsxb npeyc,huphpejhaugfnjq,hasxth gqjs
enphfum,huohenphsecoetnfuyychm aangbhfejjlp,hugqhoejhynooyjhsjq-muytjq
eugqhejhzuphzurngbk

“Ntmxppniyj!hNahejhlgjzhugcxgj,hejhzx yqheurjhlgxzghtj,”hpunqhLnooc,hng
sjpmxgpjhoxhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu’phpouojtjgo,hugqhpejhptnyjqk

Pejhptnyjqhijfu pj,hoex behpejhpunqhejhfx yqhgxohlgxzhejs,hnghejshejuso
pejhzuphp sjhoeuohejhlgjzhgxohtjsjychUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hi ohoeuohejhlgjz
ugqh gqjspoxxqhjrjscoengb,hugqhlgjzhugqh gqjspoxxqhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxx
oeuohgxhxgjhjypjhlgjz,hugqhoeuohpej,henphtxoejs,heuqhyjusgjqhugqhfxtj
oxh gqjspougqhxgychoesx behentkhOxhUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hoxhoejhg spj,hox
enphbsugqauoejs,hoxhenphauoejshjrjg,hTnocuhzuphuhynrngbhijngb,
sjw nsngbhxgychtuojsnuyhfusj,hi ohaxshenphtxoejshejheuqhyxgbhijjghu
txsouyhijngb,hznoehzexthoejsjheuqhijjghuhzexyjhpjsnjphxahpmnsno uy
sjyuonxgphuysjuqck

“Zejghejhzuljph m,hmyjupjhBxq,hcx hpeuyyhpjjhaxshcx spjyakhOejghzejghN
qxhynljhoenp,hejhpntmychijutphxghtj,hoejhqusyngb!hPntmychijutphynljhu
p ggchquc!”hpunqhUbuajuhTneuyxrguk

“Zjyy,hzjyy;hoejghzjhpeuyyhpjj,”hzenpmjsjqhLnoockh“I ohgxzhbxhuzuc,
ej’phbxngbhoxhpyjjmk”


Feumojsh7

UbuajuhTneuyxrguhzjgohx ohxghonmoxj;hoejhg spjhyjohqxzghoejhiyngq,
feupjqhuhaychx ohasxth gqjshoejht pynghfugxmchxahoejhfsni,hugqhu
i tiyjijjhpos bbyngbhxghoejhzngqxz-asutj,hugqhpuohqxzghzurngbhuhauqjq
isugfehxahinsfehxrjshoejhtxoejshugqhoejhiuick

“Exzhexohnohnp!hnahBxqhzx yqhpjgqhuhqsxmhxahsung,”hpejhpunqk

“Cjp,hcjp,hpe—pe—pe——”hzuphuyyhLnoochugpzjsjq,hsxflngbhuhynooyj,hugq
ojgqjsychpw jjdngbhoejhmy tmhynooyjhust,hznoehsxyyphxahauohuohoej
zsnpo,hzenfehTnocuhponyyhzurjqhajjiychuphejhxmjgjqhugqhpe ohenphjcjpk
OeuoheugqhzxssnjqhLnooc;hpejhyxgbjqhoxhlnpphoejhynooyjheugq,hi ohzup
uasunqhoxhaxshajushxahzulngbhoejhiuickhUohyupohoejhynooyjheugqhfjupjq
zurngb,hugqhoejhjcjphfyxpjqkhXgychasxthontjhoxhontj,huphejhzjgohxg
p flngb,hoejhiuichsunpjqhenphyxgb,hf sychjcjyupejphugqhmjjmjqhuohenp
txoejshznoehzjohjcjp,hoeuohyxxljqhiyuflhnghoejhoznynbeokhOejhg spjheuq
yjaohxaahauggngb,hugqhzuphqxdngbkhAsxthuixrjhfutjhoejhmjuyphxahoejhxyq
msngfj’phrxnfj,hugqhoejhfe flyjhxahLuourupxrk

“Oejcheurjhbxohngoxhouylhznoex ohtj,”hoex beohLnooc,h“i ohponyyhno’p
rjvngbhoeuohLxpocu’phx okhEj’php sjhoxheurjhbxgjhoxhoejhijj-ex pj
ubungkhOex behno’phuhmnochej’phoejsjhpxhxaojg,hponyyhN’thbyuqkhNo
qnposufophenphtngqkhEj’phijfxtjhuyoxbjoejsheummnjshugqhijoojshgxzhoeug
nghoejhpmsngbkhEjh pjqhoxhijhpxhbyxxtchugqhzxssnjqhoeuohNhajyo
asnbeojgjqhaxshentkhUgqhexzhuip sqhejhnp!”hpejhzenpmjsjq,hptnyngbk

Pejhlgjzhzeuohzxssnjqhejshe piugqkhNohzuphenph gijynjakhUyoex be,hna
pejheuqhijjghupljqhzejoejshpejhp mmxpjqhoeuohnghoejha o sjhynaj,hnahej
qnqhgxohijynjrj,hejhzx yqhijhqutgjq,hpejhzx yqheurjheuqhoxhuqtnohoeuo
ejhzx yqhijhqutgjq,henph gijynjahqnqhgxohfu pjhejsh geummngjppkhUgq
pej,hfxgajppngbhoeuohaxshugh gijynjrjshoejsjhfughijhgxhpuyruonxg,hugq
yxrngbhejshe piugq’phpx yhtxsjhoeughugcoengbhnghoejhzxsyq,hoex beohznoe
uhptnyjhxahenph gijynja,hugqhoxyqhejspjyahoeuohejhzuphuip sqk

“Zeuohqxjphejhljjmhsjuqngbhmenyxpxmechxahpxtjhpxsohaxshuyyhoenphcjus?”
pejhzxgqjsjqkh“Nahno’phuyyhzsnoojghnghoexpjhixxlp,hejhfugh gqjspougq
oejtkhNahno’phuyyhzsxgb,hzechqxjphejhsjuqhoejt?hEjhpucphentpjyahoeuohej
zx yqhynljhoxhijynjrjkhOejghzechnphnohejhqxjpg’ohijynjrj?hP sjychasxt
enphoenglngbhpxht fe?hUgqhejhoenglphpxht fehasxthijngbhpxynousckhEj’p
uyzucphuyxgj,huyxgjkhEjhfug’ohouylhuix ohnohuyyhoxh pkhNhaugfchej’yyhij
byuqhxahoejpjhrnpnoxsp,hjpmjfnuyychLuourupxrkhEjhynljphqnpf ppnxgphznoe
oejt,”hpejhoex beo,hugqhmuppjqhngpougoychoxhoejhfxgpnqjsuonxghxahzejsj
nohzx yqhijhtxsjhfxgrjgnjgohoxhm ohLuourupxr,hoxhpyjjmhuyxgjhxshox
peusjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phsxxtkhUgqhoejghughnqjuhp qqjgychpos flhejs,
zenfehtuqjhejshpe qqjshugqhjrjghqnpo sihTnocu,hzexhbyugfjqhpjrjsjychuo
ejskh“Nhqxhijynjrjhoejhyu gqsjppheupg’ohpjgohoejhzupengbhcjo,hugqhuyy
oejhijpohpejjophusjhngh pjkhNahNhqxg’ohpjjhoxhno,hUbuajuhTneuyxrguhznyy
bnrjhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehoejhzsxgbhpejjop,”hugqhuohoejhrjschnqjuhxahoenp
oejhiyxxqhs pejqhoxhLnooc’phaufjk

“Cjp,hNhznyyhussugbjhno,”hpejhqjfnqjq,hugqhbxngbhiuflhoxhejshaxstjs
oex beop,hpejhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohpxtjhpmnsno uyhw jponxghxahntmxsougfjheuq
ijjghngojss mojq,hugqhpejhijbughoxhsjfuyyhzeuokh“Cjp,hLxpocu,hug
 gijynjrjs,”hpejhoex beohubunghznoehuhptnyjk

“Zjyy,hugh gijynjrjshoejg!hIjoojshyjohenthuyzucphijhxgjhoeughynlj
TuqutjhPouey,hxshzeuohNhosnjqhoxhijhnghoexpjhqucphuisxuqkhGx,hejhzxg’o
jrjshpeuthugcoengbk”

UgqhuhsjfjgohngpougfjhxahenphbxxqgjpphsxpjhrnrnqychoxhejshtngqkhU
axsognbeohubxhuhmjgnojgohyjoojsheuqhfxtjhasxthPojmughUsluqcjrnofehox
QxyyckhEjhijpx beohejshoxhpurjhenphexgxs,hoxhpjyyhejshjpouojhoxhmuchenp
qjiopkhQxyychzuphnghqjpmuns,hpejhqjojpojqhejshe piugq,hqjpmnpjqhent,
mnonjqhent,hsjpxyrjqhxghuhpjmusuonxg,hsjpxyrjqhoxhsja pj,hi ohjgqjqhic
ubsjjngbhoxhpjyyhmusohxahejshmsxmjsockhUaojshoeuo,hznoehug
nssjmsjppniyjhptnyjhxahojgqjsgjpp,hLnoochsjfuyyjqhejshe piugq’p
peutjaufjqhjtiussupptjgo,henphsjmjuojqhuzlzusqhjaaxsophoxhummsxufehoej
p i.jfo,hugqhexzhuohyupo,heurngbhoex beohxahoejhxgjhtjugphxahejymngb
Qxyychznoex ohzx gqngbhejshmsnqj,hejheuqhp bbjpojqhoxhLnooc—zeuoheuq
gxohxff ssjqhoxhejshijaxsj—oeuohpejhpex yqhbnrjh mhejshpeusjhxahoej
msxmjsock

“Ejhugh gijynjrjshngqjjq!hZnoehenphejuso,henphqsjuqhxahxaajgqngb
ugcxgj,hjrjghuhfenyq!hJrjscoengbhaxshxoejsp,hgxoengbhaxshentpjyak
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehpntmychfxgpnqjsphnohuphLxpocu’phq ochoxhijhenp
pojzusqkhUgqhno’phoejhputjhznoehenphpnpojskhGxzhQxyychugqhejshfenyqsjg
usjh gqjshenphb usqnugpenm;huyyhoejpjhmjupugophzexhfxtjhoxhenthjrjsc
quc,huphoex behejhzjsjhix gqhoxhijhuohoejnshpjsrnfjk”

“Cjp,hxgychijhynljhcx shauoejs,hxgychynljhent,”hpejhpunq,heugqngbhTnocu
xrjshoxhoejhg spj,hugqhm oongbhejshynmphoxhenphfejjlk

Feumojsh8

Jrjshpngfj,hichenphijyxrjqhisxoejs’phqjuoeijq,hYjrngheuqhanspohbyugfjq
ngoxhoejhw jponxgphxahynajhugqhqjuoehnghoejhynbeohxahoejpjhgjz
fxgrnfonxgp,huphejhfuyyjqhoejt,hzenfeheuqhq sngbhoejhmjsnxqhasxthenp
ozjgonjoehoxhenphoensoc-ax soehcjushntmjsfjmoniychsjmyufjqhenphfenyqnpe
ugqhcx oea yhijynjap—ejheuqhijjghposnfljghznoehexssxs,hgxohpxht fehxa
qjuoe,huphxahynaj,hznoex ohugchlgxzyjqbjhxahzejgfj,hugqhzec,hugqhexz,
ugqhzeuohnohzupkhOejhmecpnfuyhxsbugnduonxg,hnophqjfuc,hoej
ngqjpos foninynochxahtuoojs,hoejhyuzhxahoejhfxgpjsruonxghxahjgjsbc,
jrxy onxg,hzjsjhoejhzxsqphzenfeh p smjqhoejhmyufjhxahenphxyqhijynjak
Oejpjhzxsqphugqhoejhnqjuphuppxfnuojqhznoehoejthzjsjhrjschzjyyhaxs
ngojyyjfo uyhm smxpjpkhI ohaxshynajhoejchcnjyqjqhgxoengb,hugqhYjrng
ajyohp qqjgychynljhuhtughzexheuphfeugbjqhenphzustha shfyxulhaxshu
t pynghbustjgo,hugqhbxngbhaxshoejhanspohontjhngoxhoejhasxpohnp
nttjqnuojychfxgrngfjq,hgxohichsjupxg,hi ohichenphzexyjhguo sjhoeuohej
nphuphbxxqhuphguljq,hugqhoeuohejht pohngauyyniychmjsnpehtnpjsuiyck

Asxthoeuohtxtjgo,hoex behejhqnqhgxohqnpongfoychaufjhno,hugqhponyyhzjgo
xghynrngbhuphijaxsj,hYjrngheuqhgjrjshyxpohoenphpjgpjhxahojssxshuohenp
yuflhxahlgxzyjqbjk

Ejhrub jychajyo,hoxx,hoeuohzeuohejhfuyyjqhenphgjzhfxgrnfonxgphzjsjhgxo
tjsjychyuflhxahlgxzyjqbj,hi ohoeuohoejchzjsjhmusohxahuhzexyjhxsqjshxa
nqjup,hnghzenfehgxhlgxzyjqbjhxahzeuohejhgjjqjqhzuphmxppniyjk

Uohanspo,htussnubj,hznoehoejhgjzh.xcphugqhq onjphix gqh mhznoehno,heuq
fxtmyjojychfsxzqjqhx ohoejpjhoex beopkhI ohxahyuoj,hzenyjhejhzup
poucngbhnghTxpfxzhuaojshenphznaj’phfxgangjtjgo,hznoehgxoengbhoxhqx,hoej
w jponxghoeuohfyutxsjqhaxshpxy onxgheuqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhxaojg,htxsjhugq
txsjhngpnpojgoyc,heu gojqhYjrng’phtngqk

Oejhw jponxghzuphp ttjqh mhaxshenthoe p:h“NahNhqxhgxohuffjmohoej
ugpzjsphFesnponugnochbnrjphoxhoejhmsxiyjtphxahtchynaj,hzeuohugpzjsphqx
Nhuffjmo?”hUgqhnghoejhzexyjhuspjguyhxahenphfxgrnfonxgp,hpxhaushasxt
angqngbhugchpuonpaufoxschugpzjsp,hejhzuph oojsych guiyjhoxhangq
ugcoengbhuohuyyhynljhughugpzjsk

Ejhzuphnghoejhmxpnonxghxahuhtughpjjlngbhaxxqhnghoxchpexmphugqhoxxy
pexmpk

Ngpongfonrjyc,h gfxgpfnx pyc,hznoehjrjschixxl,hznoehjrjschfxgrjspuonxg,
znoehjrjschtughejhtjo,hejhzuphxghoejhyxxlx ohaxshynbeohxghoejpj
w jponxgphugqhoejnshpxy onxgk

Zeuohm ddyjqhugqhqnposufojqhenthuixrjhjrjscoengbhzuphoeuohoejhtu.xsnoc
xahtjghxahenphubjhugqhfnsfyjheuq,hynljhent,hjvfeugbjqhoejnshxyqhijynjap
axshoejhputjhgjzhfxgrnfonxgp,hugqhcjohpuzhgxoengbhoxhyutjgohnghoenp,
ugqhzjsjhmjsajfoychpuonpanjqhugqhpjsjgjkhPxhoeuo,humusohasxthoej
msngfnmuyhw jponxg,hYjrnghzuphoxso sjqhichxoejshw jponxgphoxxkhZjsj
oejpjhmjxmyjhpngfjsj?hejhupljqhentpjya,hxshzjsjhoejchmyucngbhuhmuso?hxs
zuphnohoeuohoejch gqjspoxxqhoejhugpzjsphpfnjgfjhburjhoxhoejpjhmsxiyjtp
nghpxtjhqnaajsjgo,hfyjusjshpjgpjhoeughejhqnq?hUgqhejhuppnq x pyc
po qnjqhixoehoejpjhtjg’phxmngnxgphugqhoejhixxlphzenfehosjuojqhxahoejpj
pfnjgonanfhjvmyuguonxgpk

Xgjhaufohejheuqhax gqhx ohpngfjhoejpjhw jponxgpheuqhjgbsxppjqhenphtngq,
zuphoeuohejheuqhijjghw nojhzsxgbhnghp mmxpngbhasxthoejhsjfxyyjfonxgphxa
oejhfnsfyjhxahenphcx gbhqucphuohfxyyjbj,hoeuohsjynbnxgheuqhx oynrjqhnop
quc,hugqhoeuohnohzuphgxzhmsufonfuyychgxg-jvnpojgokhUyyhoejhmjxmyj
gjusjpohoxhenthzexhzjsjhbxxqhnghoejnshynrjphzjsjhijynjrjspkhOejhxyq
msngfj,hugqhYrxr,hzexthejhynljqhpxht fe,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhuyy
oejhzxtjghijynjrjq,hugqhenphznajhijynjrjqhuphpntmychuphejheuqhijynjrjq
nghenphjusynjpohfenyqexxq,hugqhgngjoc-gngjhe gqsjqoephxahoejhS ppnug
mjxmyj,huyyhoejhzxslngbhmjxmyjhaxshzexpjhynajhejhajyohoejhqjjmjpo
sjpmjfo,hijynjrjqk

Ugxoejshaufohxahzenfehejhijfutjhfxgrngfjq,huaojshsjuqngbhtugc
pfnjgonanfhixxlp,hzuphoeuohoejhtjghzexhpeusjqhenphrnjzpheuqhgxhxoejs
fxgpos fonxghoxhm ohxghoejt,hugqhoeuohoejchburjhgxhjvmyuguonxghxahoej
w jponxgphzenfehejhajyohejhfx yqhgxohynrjhznoex ohugpzjsngb,hi ohpntmyc
nbgxsjqhoejnshjvnpojgfjhugqhuoojtmojqhoxhjvmyunghxoejshw jponxgphxahgx
mxppniyjhngojsjpohoxhent,hp fehuphoejhjrxy onxghxahxsbugnptp,hoej
tuojsnuynponfhoejxschxahfxgpfnx pgjpp,hugqhpxhaxsoek

Txsjxrjs,hq sngbhenphznaj’phfxgangjtjgo,hpxtjoengbheuqheummjgjqhoeuo
pjjtjqhjvosuxsqnguschoxhentkhEj,hugh gijynjrjs,heuqhauyyjghngox
msucngb,hugqhuohoejhtxtjgohejhmsucjq,hejhijynjrjqkhI ohoeuohtxtjgoheuq
muppjq,hugqhejhfx yqhgxohtuljhenphpouojhxahtngqhuohoeuohtxtjgohanohngox
oejhsjpohxahenphynajk

Ejhfx yqhgxohuqtnohoeuohuohoeuohtxtjgohejhlgjzhoejhos oe,hugqhoeuohgxz
ejhzuphzsxgb;haxshuphpxxghuphejhijbughoenglngbhfuytychuix ohno,hnohuyy
ajyyhoxhmnjfjpkhEjhfx yqhgxohuqtnohoeuohejhzuphtnpouljghoejg,haxshenp
pmnsno uyhfxgqnonxghoejghzuphmsjfnx phoxhent,hugqhoxhuqtnohoeuohnohzup
uhmsxxahxahzjulgjpphzx yqheurjhijjghoxhqjpjfsuojhoexpjhtxtjgopkhEjhzup
tnpjsuiychqnrnqjqhubungpohentpjya,hugqhposungjqhuyyhenphpmnsno uy
axsfjphoxhoejh otxpohoxhjpfumjhasxthoenphfxgqnonxgk

Feumojsh9

Oejpjhqx iophasjoojqhugqheusuppjqhent,hbsxzngbhzjuljshxshposxgbjshasxt
ontjhoxhontj,hi ohgjrjshyjurngbhentkhEjhsjuqhugqhoex beo,hugqhoejhtxsj
ejhsjuqhugqhoejhtxsjhejhoex beo,hoejha soejshejhajyohasxthoejhunthej
zuphm sp ngbk

XahyuojhnghTxpfxzhugqhnghoejhfx gosc,hpngfjhejheuqhijfxtjhfxgrngfjq
oeuohejhzx yqhangqhgxhpxy onxghnghoejhtuojsnuynpop,hejheuqhsjuqhugq
sj-sjuqhoexsx beychMyuox,hPmngxdu,hLugo,hPfejyyngb,hEjbjy,hugq
Pfexmjgeu js,hoejhmenyxpxmejsphzexhburjhuhgxg-tuojsnuynponfhjvmyuguonxg
xahynajk

Oejnshnqjuphpjjtjqhoxhenthas noa yhzejghejhzuphsjuqngbhxshzuphentpjya
pjjlngbhusb tjgophoxhsja ojhxoejshoejxsnjp,hjpmjfnuyychoexpjhxahoej
tuojsnuynpop;hi ohuphpxxghuphejhijbughoxhsjuqhxshpx beohaxshentpjyahu
pxy onxghxahmsxiyjtp,hoejhputjhoengbhuyzucpheummjgjqkhUphyxgbhuphej
axyyxzjqhoejhanvjqhqjangnonxghxahxipf sjhzxsqphp fehuph_pmnsno,hznyy,
asjjqxt,hjppjgfj,_hm smxpjychyjoongbhentpjyahbxhngoxhoejhpgusjhxahzxsqp
oejhmenyxpxmejsphpjohaxshent,hejhpjjtjqhoxhfxtmsjejgqhpxtjoengbkhI ohej
euqhxgychoxhaxsbjohoejhusonanfnuyhosunghxahsjupxgngb,hugqhoxho sghasxt
ynajhnopjyahoxhzeuoheuqhpuonpanjqhenthzenyjhoenglngbhnghuffxsqugfjhznoe
oejhanvjqhqjangnonxgp,hugqhuyyhoenphusonanfnuyhjqnanfjhajyyhoxhmnjfjp
uohxgfjhynljhuhex pjhxahfusqp,hugqhnohijfutjhfyjushoeuohoejhjqnanfjheuq
ijjghi nyoh mhx ohxahoexpjhosugpmxpjqhzxsqp,humusohasxthugcoengbhng
ynajhtxsjhntmxsougohoeughsjupxgk

Uohxgjhontj,hsjuqngbhPfexmjgeu js,hejhm ohnghmyufjhxahenph_znyy_hoej
zxsqh_yxrj_,hugqhaxshuhfx myjhxahqucphoenphgjzhmenyxpxmechfeustjqhent,
onyyhejhsjtxrjqhuhynooyjhuzuchasxthnokhI ohoejg,hzejghejho sgjqhasxt
ynajhnopjyahoxhbyugfjhuohnohubung,hnohajyyhuzuchoxx,hugqhmsxrjqhoxhij
oejhputjht pynghbustjgohznoehgxhzustoehnghnok

EnphisxoejshPjsbjchNrugxrnofehuqrnpjqhenthoxhsjuqhoejhoejxyxbnfuyhzxslp
xahExtnulxrkhYjrnghsjuqhoejhpjfxgqhrxy tjhxahExtnulxr’phzxslp,hugqhng
pmnojhxahoejhjyjbugo,hjmnbsuttuonf,husb tjgouonrjhpocyjhzenfehuohanspo
sjmjyyjqhent,hejhzuphntmsjppjqhichoejhqxfosngjhxahoejhfe sfehejhax gq
nghoejtkhEjhzuphpos flhuohanspohichoejhnqjuhoeuohoejhummsjejgpnxghxa
qnrngjhos oepheuqhgxohijjghrx fepuajqhoxhtug,hi ohoxhuhfxsmxsuonxghxa
tjghix gqhoxbjoejshichyxrj—oxhoejhfe sfekhZeuohqjynbeojqhenthzuphoej
oex beohexzht fehjupnjshnohzuphoxhijynjrjhnghuhponyyhjvnpongbhynrngb
fe sfe,hjtisufngbhuyyhoejhijynjaphxahtjg,hugqheurngbhBxqhuohnophejuq,
ugqhoejsjaxsjhexychugqhngauyyniyj,hugqhasxthnohoxhuffjmohoejhaunoehng
Bxq,hnghoejhfsjuonxg,hoejhauyy,hoejhsjqjtmonxg,hoeughoxhijbnghznoehBxq,
uhtcpojsnx p,haus-uzuchBxq,hoejhfsjuonxg,hjofkhI ohuaojszusqp,hxg
sjuqngbhuhFuoexynfhzsnojs’phenpoxschxahoejhfe sfe,hugqhoejghuhBsjjl
xsoexqxvhzsnojs’phenpoxschxahoejhfe sfe,hugqhpjjngbhoeuohoejhozx
fe sfejp,hnghoejnshrjschfxgfjmonxghngauyyniyj,hjufehqjgchoejhu oexsnoc
xahoejhxoejs,hExtnulxr’phqxfosngjhxahoejhfe sfehyxpohuyyhnophfeusthaxs
ent,hugqhoenphjqnanfjhfs tiyjqhngoxhq pohynljhoejhmenyxpxmejsp’
jqnanfjpk

Uyyhoeuohpmsngbhejhzuphgxohentpjya,hugqhzjgohoesx behajusa yhtxtjgophxa
exssxsk

“Znoex ohlgxzngbhzeuohNhuthugqhzechNhuthejsj,hynaj’phntmxppniyj;hugq
oeuohNhfug’ohlgxz,hugqhpxhNhfug’ohynrj,”hYjrnghpunqhoxhentpjyak

“Nghngangnojhontj,hnghngangnojhtuoojs,hnghngangnojhpmufj,hnphaxstjqhu
i iiyj-xsbugnpt,hugqhoeuohi iiyjhyupophuhzenyjhugqhi spop,hugqhoeuo
i iiyjhnphTjk”

Nohzuphughubxgndngbhjssxs,hi ohnohzuphoejhpxyjhyxbnfuyhsjp yohxahubjp
xahe tughoex beohnghoeuohqnsjfonxgk

Oenphzuphoejh yontuojhijynjahxghzenfehuyyhoejhpcpojtphjyuixsuojqhic
e tughoex beohnghuytxpohuyyhoejnshsutnanfuonxgphsjpojqkhNohzuphoej
msjruyjgohfxgrnfonxg,hugqhxahuyyhxoejshjvmyuguonxgphYjrngheuq
 gfxgpfnx pyc,hgxohlgxzngbhzejghxshexz,hfexpjghno,huphugczuchoej
fyjusjpo,hugqhtuqjhnohenphxzgk

I ohnohzuphgxohtjsjychuhauypjexxq,hnohzuphoejhfs jyh.jjshxahpxtjhznfljq
mxzjs,hpxtjhjrny,heuoja yhmxzjs,hoxhzexthxgjhfx yqhgxohp itnok

Ejht pohjpfumjhasxthoenphmxzjskhUgqhoejhtjugphxahjpfumjhjrjschtugheuq
nghenphxzgheugqpkhEjheuqhi ohoxhf ohpexsohoenphqjmjgqjgfjhxghjrnykhUgq
oejsjhzuphxgjhtjugp—qjuoek

UgqhYjrng,huheummchauoejshugqhe piugq,hnghmjsajfohejuyoe,hzuphpjrjsuy
ontjphpxhgjushp nfnqjhoeuohejhenqhoejhfxsqhoeuohejhtnbeohgxohijhojtmojq
oxheugbhentpjya,hugqhzuphuasunqhoxhbxhx ohznoehenphb ghaxshajushxa
pexxongbhentpjyak

I ohYjrnghqnqhgxohpexxohentpjya,hugqhqnqhgxoheugbhentpjya;hejhzjgohxg
ynrngbk


Feumojsh10

ZejghYjrnghoex beohzeuohejhzuphugqhzeuohejhzuphynrngbhaxs,hejhfx yq
angqhgxhugpzjshoxhoejhw jponxgphugqhzuphsjq fjqhoxhqjpmuns,hi ohejhyjao
xaahw jponxgngbhentpjyahuix ohnokhNohpjjtjqhuphoex behejhlgjzhixoehzeuo
ejhzuphugqhaxshzeuohejhzuphynrngb,haxshejhufojqhugqhynrjqhsjpxy ojyc
ugqhznoex ohejpnouonxgkhNgqjjq,hnghoejpjhyuoojshqucphejhzuphaushtxsj
qjfnqjqhugqh gejpnouongbhnghynajhoeughejheuqhjrjshijjgk

Zejghejhzjgohiuflhoxhoejhfx goschuohoejhijbnggngbhxah. gj,hejhzjgohiufl
uypxhoxhenph p uyhm sp nopkhOejhtugubjtjgohxahoejhjpouoj,henphsjyuonxgp
znoehoejhmjupugophugqhoejhgjnbeixsp,hoejhfusjhxahenphex pjexyq,hoej
tugubjtjgohxahenphpnpojs’phugqhisxoejs’phmsxmjsoc,hxahzenfehejheuqhoej
qnsjfonxg,henphsjyuonxgphznoehenphznajhugqhlngqsjq,hoejhfusjhxahenp
fenyq,hugqhoejhgjzhijj-ljjmngbhexiichejheuqhouljgh mhoeuohpmsngb,
anyyjqhuyyhenphontjk

Oejpjhoengbphxff mnjqhenthgxz,hgxohijfu pjhejh. ponanjqhoejthoxhentpjya
ichugchpxsohxahbjgjsuyhmsngfnmyjp,huphejheuqhqxgjhnghaxstjshqucp;hxg
oejhfxgosusc,hqnpummxngojqhichoejhauny sjhxahenphaxstjshjaaxsophaxshoej
bjgjsuyhzjyausj,hugqhoxxht fehxff mnjqhznoehenphxzghoex beohugqhoej
tupphxahi pngjpphznoehzenfehejhzuphi sqjgjqhasxthuyyhpnqjp,hejheuq
fxtmyjojychbnrjgh mhoenglngbhxahoejhbjgjsuyhbxxq,hugqhejhi pnjqhentpjya
znoehuyyhoenphzxslhpntmychijfu pjhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejht pohqxhzeuo
ejhzuphqxngb—oeuohejhfx yqhgxohqxhxoejsznpjkhNghaxstjshqucp—uytxpohasxt
fenyqexxq,hugqhngfsjupngbych mhoxha yyhtugexxq—zejghejheuqhosnjqhoxhqx
ugcoengbhoeuohzx yqhijhbxxqhaxshuyy,haxshe tugnoc,haxshS ppnu,haxshoej
zexyjhrnyyubj,hejheuqhgxonfjqhoeuohoejhnqjuhxahnoheuqhijjghmyjupugo,
i ohoejhzxslhnopjyaheuqhuyzucphijjghngfxejsjgo,hoeuohoejghejheuqhgjrjs
euqhuha yyhfxgrnfonxghxahnophuipxy ojhgjfjppnoc,hugqhoeuohoejhzxslhoeuo
euqhijb ghichpjjtngbhpxhbsjuo,heuqhbsxzghyjpphugqhyjpp,honyyhno
rugnpejqhngoxhgxoengbkhI ohgxz,hpngfjhenphtussnubj,hzejghejheuqhijb g
oxhfxgangjhentpjyahtxsjhugqhtxsjhoxhynrngbhaxshentpjya,hoex behej
jvmjsnjgfjqhgxhqjynbeohuohuyyhuohoejhoex beohxahoejhzxslhejhzuphqxngb,
ejhajyohuhfxtmyjojhfxgrnfonxghxahnophgjfjppnoc,hpuzhoeuohnohp ffjjqjq
aushijoojshoeughnghxyqhqucp,hugqhoeuohnohljmohxghbsxzngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjk

Gxz,hngrxy gousnychnohpjjtjq,hejhf ohtxsjhugqhtxsjhqjjmychngoxhoejhpxny
ynljhuhmyx be,hpxhoeuohejhfx yqhgxohijhqsuzghx ohznoex oho sgngbhupnqj
oejha ssxzk

Oxhynrjhoejhputjhautnychynajhuphenphauoejshugqhaxsjauoejsp—oeuohnp,hng
oejhputjhfxgqnonxghxahf yo sj—ugqhoxhisngbh mhenphfenyqsjghnghoejhputj,
zuphngfxgojpouiychgjfjppusckhNohzuphuphgjfjppuschuphqngngbhzejghxgjhzup
e gbsckhUgqhoxhqxhoenp,h. pohuphnohzuphgjfjppuschoxhfxxlhqnggjs,hnohzup
gjfjppuschoxhljjmhoejhtjfeugnpthxahubsnf yo sjhuohMxlsxrplxjhbxngbhpx
uphoxhcnjyqhughngfxtjkh. pohuphngfxgojpouiychuphnohzuphgjfjppuschox
sjmuchuhqjiohzuphnohgjfjppuschoxhljjmhoejhmsxmjsochnghp fehuhfxgqnonxg
oeuohenphpxg,hzejghejhsjfjnrjqhnohuphuhejsnoubj,hzx yqhpuch“oeuglhcx ”
oxhenphauoejshuphYjrngheuqhpunqh“oeuglhcx ”hoxhenphbsugqauoejshaxshuyy
ejhi nyohugqhmyugojqkhUgqhoxhqxhoenphnohzuphgjfjppuschoxhyxxlhuaojshoej
yugqhentpjya,hgxohoxhyjohno,hugqhoxhisjjqhfuooyj,htug sjhoejhanjyqp,
ugqhmyugohontijsk

NohzuphntmxppniyjhgxohoxhyxxlhuaojshoejhuaaunsphxahPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
xahenphpnpojs,hxahoejhmjupugophzexhfutjhoxhenthaxshuqrnfjhugqhzjsj
uff poxtjqhoxhqxhpx—uphntmxppniyjhuphoxhayngbhqxzghuhfenyqhxgjhnp
fusscngbhnghxgj’phustpkhNohzuphgjfjppuschoxhyxxlhuaojshoejhfxtaxsohxa
enphpnpojs-ng-yuzhugqhejshfenyqsjg,hugqhxahenphznajhugqhiuic,hugqhno
zuphntmxppniyjhgxohoxhpmjgqhznoehoejthuohyjupohuhpexsohontjhjufehquck

Ugqhuyyhoenp,hoxbjoejshznoehpexxongbhugqhenphgjzhijj-ljjmngb,hanyyjqh m
oejhzexyjhxahYjrng’phynaj,hzenfeheuqhgxhtjugngbhuohuyyhaxshent,hzejghej
ijbughoxhoenglk

I ohijpnqjphlgxzngbhoexsx beychzeuohejheuqhoxhqx,hYjrnghlgjzhngh. po
oejhputjhzuch_exz_hejheuqhoxhqxhnohuyy,hugqhzeuohzuphtxsjhntmxsougo
oeughoejhsjpok

Ejhlgjzhejht pohensjhyuixsjsphuphfejumychuphmxppniyj;hi ohoxhensjhtjg
 gqjshixgq,hmucngbhoejthnghuqrugfjhuohyjpphoeughoejhf ssjgohsuojhxa
zubjp,hzuphzeuohejht pohgxohqx,hjrjghoex behnohzuphrjschmsxanouiyjk
Pjyyngbhposuzhoxhoejhmjupugophnghontjphxahpfusfnochxahmsxrjgqjshzup
zeuohejhtnbeohqx,hjrjghoex behejhajyohpxsschaxshoejt;hi ohoejhourjsg
ugqhoejhmxoex pjht pohijhm ohqxzg,hoex behoejchzjsjhuhpx sfjhxahngfxtjk
Ajyyngbhontijsht pohijhm gnpejqhuphpjrjsjychuphmxppniyj,hi ohejhfx yq
gxohjvufohaxsajnophaxshfuooyjhijngbhqsnrjghxgoxhenphanjyqp;hugqhoex be
nohuggxcjqhoejhljjmjshugqhtuqjhoejhmjupugophgxohuasunqhoxhbsudjhoejns
fuooyjhxghenphyugq,hejhfx yqhgxohljjmhoejnshfuooyjhuphuhm gnpetjgok

OxhMcxos,hzexhzuphmucngbhuhtxgjc-yjgqjshojghmjshfjgokhuhtxgoe,hejht po
yjgqhuhp thxahtxgjchoxhpjohenthasjjkhI ohejhfx yqhgxohyjohxaahmjupugop
zexhqnqhgxohmuchoejnshsjgo,hgxshyjohoejthauyyhngoxhussjuspkhNohzup
ntmxppniyjhoxhxrjsyxxlhoejhiunynaa’phgxoheurngbhtxzghoejhtjuqxzphugq
yjoongbhoejheuchpmxny;hugqhnohzuphjw uyychntmxppniyjhoxhtxzhoexpjhufsjp
zejsjhuhcx gbhfxmpjheuqhijjghmyugojqkhNohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhjvf pjhu
yuixsjshzexheuqhbxgjhextjhnghoejhi pchpjupxghijfu pjhenphauoejshzup
qcngb,hexzjrjshpxsschejhtnbeohajjyhaxshent,hugqhejht pohp iosufohasxt
enphmuchoexpjhfxpoychtxgoephxahnqyjgjppkhI ohnohzuphntmxppniyjhgxohox
uyyxzhtxgoeychsuonxgphoxhoejhxyqhpjsrugophzexhzjsjhxahgxh pjhaxs
ugcoengbk

Yjrnghlgjzhoeuohzejghejhbxohextjhejht pohanspohxahuyyhbxhoxhenphznaj,
zexhzuph gzjyy,hugqhoeuohoejhmjupugophzexheuqhijjghzunongbhaxshoesjj
ex sphoxhpjjhenthfx yqhzunohuhynooyjhyxgbjskhEjhlgjzhoxxhoeuo,
sjbusqyjpphxahuyyhoejhmyjup sjhejhajyohnghoulngbhuhpzust,hejht po
axsjbxhoeuohmyjup sj,hugqhyjurjhoejhxyqhtughoxhpjjhoxhoejhijjphuyxgj,
zenyjhejhouyljqhoxhoejhmjupugophzexheuqhfxtjhuaojshenthoxhoej
ijj-ex pjk

Zejoejshejhzjsjhufongbhsnbeoychxshzsxgbychejhqnqhgxohlgxz,hugqhaushasxt
oscngbhoxhmsxrjhoeuohejhzup,hgxzuqucphejhurxnqjqhuyyhoex beohxshouyl
uix ohnok

Sjupxgngbheuqhisx beohenthoxhqx io,hugqhmsjrjgojqhenthasxthpjjngbhzeuo
ejhx beohoxhqxhugqhzeuohejhx beohgxokhZejghejhqnqhgxohoengl,hi ohpntmyc
ynrjq,hejhzuphfxgong uyychuzusjhxahoejhmsjpjgfjhxahughngauyyniyjh. qbj
nghenphpx y,hqjojstngngbhzenfehxahozxhmxppniyjhfx spjphxahufonxghzup
oejhijoojshugqhzenfehzuphoejhzxspj,hugqhuphpxxghuphejhqnqhgxohufo
snbeoyc,hejhzuphuohxgfjhuzusjhxahnok

Pxhejhynrjq,hgxohlgxzngbhugqhgxohpjjngbhugchfeugfjhxahlgxzngbhzeuohej
zuphugqhzeuohejhzuphynrngbhaxs,hugqheusuppjqhuohoenphyuflhxahlgxzyjqbj
oxhp fehuhmxngohoeuohejhzuphuasunqhxahp nfnqj,hugqhcjohanstychyucngb
qxzghenphxzghngqnrnq uyhqjangnojhmuoehnghynajk


Feumojsh11

OejhquchxghzenfehPjsbjchNrugxrnofehfutjhoxhMxlsxrplxjhzuphxgjhxa
Yjrng’phtxpohmunga yhqucpkhNohzuphoejhrjschi pnjpohzxslngbhontj,hzejg
uyyhoejhmjupugoschpexzhughjvosuxsqnguschngojgpnochxahpjya-pufsnanfjhng
yuixs,hp fehuphnphgjrjshpexzghnghugchxoejshfxgqnonxgphxahynaj,hugq
zx yqhijhenbeychjpojjtjqhnahoejhtjghzexhpexzjqhoejpjhw uynonjp
oejtpjyrjphoex beohenbeychxahoejt,hugqhnahnohzjsjhgxohsjmjuojqhjrjsc
cjus,hugqhnahoejhsjp yophxahoenphngojgpjhyuixshzjsjhgxohpxhpntmyjk

Oxhsjumhugqhingqhoejhscjhugqhxuophugqhoxhfusschno,hoxhtxzhoejhtjuqxzp,
o sghxrjshoejhauyyxzp,hoesupehoejhpjjqhugqhpxzhoejhzngojshfxsg—uyyhoenp
pjjtphpxhpntmyjhugqhxsqngusc;hi ohoxhp ffjjqhnghbjoongbhoesx behnohuyy
jrjscxgjhnghoejhrnyyubj,hasxthoejhxyqhtughoxhoejhcx gbhfenyq,ht pohoxny
ngfjppugoychaxshoesjjhxshax shzjjlp,hoesjjhontjphupheusqhuph p uy,
ynrngbhxghscj-ijjs,hxgnxgp,hugqhiyuflhisjuq,hoesupengbhugqhfusscngbhoej
pejurjphuohgnbeo,hugqhgxohbnrngbhtxsjhoeughozxhxshoesjjhex sphnghoej
ozjgoc-ax shoxhpyjjmkhUgqhjrjschcjushoenphnphqxgjhuyyhxrjshS ppnuk

Eurngbhynrjqhoejhbsjuojshmusohxahenphynajhnghoejhfx goschugqhnghoej
fyxpjpohsjyuonxgphznoehoejhmjupugop,hYjrnghuyzucphajyohnghoenphi pc
ontjhoeuohejhzuphngajfojqhichoenphbjgjsuyhw nfljgngbhxahjgjsbchnghoej
mjxmyjk

Nghoejhjusychtxsgngbhejhsxqjhxrjshoxhoejhanspohpxzngbhxahoejhscj,hugq
oxhoejhxuop,hzenfehzjsjhijngbhfussnjqhoxhoejhpouflp,hugqhsjo sgngbhextj
uohoejhontjhenphznajhugqhpnpojs-ng-yuzhzjsjhbjoongbh m,hejhqsuglhfxaajj
znoehoejthugqhzuyljqhoxhoejhaust,hzejsjhuhgjzhoesupengbhtufengjhzuphox
ijhpjohzxslngbhoxhbjohsjuqchoejhpjjq-fxsgk

Ejhzuphpougqngbhnghoejhfxxyhbsugusc,hponyyhasubsugohznoehoejhyjurjphxa
oejheudjyhisugfejphngojsyufjqhxghoejhasjpeychmjjyjqhupmjghijutphxahoej
gjzhoeuofehsxxakhEjhbudjqhoesx behoejhxmjghqxxshnghzenfehoejhqschinoojs
q pohxahoejhoesupengbhzensyjqhugqhmyucjq,huohoejhbsupphxahoejhoesupengb
ayxxshnghoejhp gynbeohugqhoejhasjpehposuzhoeuoheuqhijjghisx beohnghasxt
oejhiusg,hoejghuohoejhpmjflyc-ejuqjq,hzenoj-isjupojqhpzuyyxzphoeuohayjz
fensmngbhngh gqjshoejhsxxahugq,hay oojsngbhoejnshzngbp,hpjooyjqhnghoej
fsjrnfjphxahoejhqxxszuc,hoejghuohoejhmjupugophi poyngbhnghoejhqusl,
q pochiusg,hugqhejhoex beohposugbjhoex beopk

“Zechnphnohuyyhijngbhqxgj?”hejhoex beokh“ZechuthNhpougqngbhejsj,htulngb
oejthzxsl?hZeuohusjhoejchuyyhpxhi pchaxs,hoscngbhoxhpexzhoejnshdjuy
ijaxsjhtj?hZeuohnphoeuohxyqhTuosxgu,htchxyqhasnjgq,hoxnyngbhaxs?h(N
qxfoxsjqhejs,hzejghoejhijuthajyyhxghejshnghoejhansj)”hejhoex beo,
yxxlngbhuohuhoenghxyqhzxtughzexhzuphsulngbh mhoejhbsung,htxrngb
munga yychznoehejshiusj,hp g-iyufljgjqhajjohxrjshoejh gjrjg,hsx be
ayxxskh“Oejghpejhsjfxrjsjq,hi ohoxquchxshoxtxssxzhxshnghojghcjusphpej
zxg’o;hoejc’yyhi schejs,hugqhgxoengbhznyyhijhyjaohjnoejshxahejshxshxa
oeuohptusohbnsyhnghoejhsjqh.ufljo,hzexhznoehoeuohplnyya y,hpxaohufonxg
peuljphoejhjusphx ohxahoejnshe plpkhOejc’yyhi schejshugqhoenphmnjiuyq
exspj,hugqhrjschpxxghoxx,”hejhoex beo,hbudngbhuohoejhejurnychtxrngb,
mugongbhexspjhoeuohljmohzuylngbh mhoejhzejjyhoeuoho sgjqh gqjshentk
“Ugqhoejchznyyhi schejshugqhAcxqxshoejhoesupejshznoehenphf sychijusq
a yyhxahfeuaahugqhenphpensohoxsghxghenphzenojhpex yqjsp—oejchznyyhi sc
entkhEj’ph gocngbhoejhpejurjp,hugqhbnrngbhxsqjsp,hugqhpex ongbhoxhoej
zxtjg,hugqhw nflychpjoongbhposunbeohoejhposumhxghoejhtxrngbhzejjykhUgq
zeuo’phtxsj,hno’phgxohoejthuyxgj—tjhoejc’yyhi schoxx,hugqhgxoengbhznyy
ijhyjaokhZeuohaxs?”

Ejhoex beohoenp,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjhyxxljqhuohenphzuofehoxhsjflxghexz
t fehoejchoesupejqhnghughex skhEjhzugojqhoxhlgxzhoenphpxhuphoxh. qbjhic
nohoejhouplhoxhpjohaxshoejhquck

“No’yyhpxxghijhxgj,hugqhoejc’sjhxgychijbnggngbhoejhoensqhpejua,”
oex beohYjrngkhEjhzjgoh mhoxhoejhtughoeuohzuphajjqngbhoejhtufengj,hugq
pex ongbhxrjshoejhsxushxahoejhtufengjhejhoxyqhenthoxhm ohnohnghtxsj
pyxzyckh“Cx hm ohnghoxxht fehuohuhontj,hAcxqxskhQxhcx hpjj—nohbjop
fexljq,hoeuo’phzechnohnpg’ohbjoongbhxgkhQxhnohjrjgyck”

Acxqxs,hiyuflhznoehoejhq pohoeuohfy gbhoxhenphtxnpohaufj,hpex ojq
pxtjoengbhnghsjpmxgpj,hi ohponyyhzjgohxghqxngbhnohuphYjrnghqnqhgxohzugo
enthoxk

Yjrng,hbxngbh mhoxhoejhtufengj,htxrjqhAcxqxshupnqj,hugqhijbughajjqngb
oejhfxsghnghentpjyakhZxslngbhxghonyyhoejhmjupugop’hqnggjshex s,hzenfe
zuphgxohyxgbhnghfxtngb,hejhzjgohx ohxahoejhiusghznoehAcxqxshugqhajyy
ngoxhouylhznoehent,hpoxmmngbhijpnqjhuhgjuohcjyyxzhpejuahxahscjhyunqhxg
oejhoesupengbhayxxshaxshpjjqk

AcxqxshfutjhasxthuhrnyyubjhuohpxtjhqnpougfjhasxthoejhxgjhnghzenfehYjrng
euqhxgfjhuyyxoojqhyugqhoxhenphfxxmjsuonrjhuppxfnuonxgkhGxzhnoheuqhijjg
yjohoxhuhaxstjshex pjhmxsojsk

YjrnghouyljqhoxhAcxqxshuix ohoenphyugqhugqhupljqhzejoejshMyuoxg,hu
zjyy-ox-qxhmjupugohxahbxxqhfeusufojshijyxgbngbhoxhoejhputjhrnyyubj,
zx yqhgxohouljhoejhyugqhaxshoejhfxtngbhcjusk

“No’phuhenbehsjgo;hnohzx yqg’ohmuchMyuoxg,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe,”
ugpzjsjqhoejhmjupugo,hmnflngbhoejhjusphxaahenphpzjuo-qsjgfejqhpensok

“I ohexzhqxjphLnsnyyxrhtuljhnohmuc?”

“Tno e!”h(pxhoejhmjupugohfuyyjqhoejhex pjhmxsojs,hnghuhoxgjhxa
fxgojtmo),h“cx htuchijhp sjhej’yyhtuljhnohmuc,hLxgpougonghQtnosnjrnofe!
Ej’yyhbjohenphpeusj,hexzjrjshejheuphoxhpw jjdjhoxhbjohno!hEj’phgxhtjsfc
xghuhFesnponugkhI oh gfyjhAxlugnofe”h(pxhejhfuyyjqhoejhxyqhmjupugo
Myuoxg),h“qxhcx hp mmxpjhej’qhayuchoejhplnghxaahuhtug?hZejsjhoejsj’p
qjio,hej’yyhyjohugcxgjhxaakhUgqhej’yyhgxohzsngbhoejhyupohmjggchx ok
Ej’phuhtughoxxk”

“I ohzechznyyhejhyjohugcxgjhxaa?”

“Xe,hzjyy,hxahfx spj,haxylphusjhqnaajsjgokhXgjhtughynrjphaxshenphxzg
zugophugqhgxoengbhjypj,hynljhTno e,hejhxgychoenglphxahanyyngbhenp
ijyyc,hi ohAxlugnofehnphuhsnbeojx phtugkhEjhynrjphaxshenphpx ykhEjhqxjp
gxohaxsbjohBxqk”

“ExzhoenglphxahBxq?hExzhqxjphejhynrjhaxshenphpx y?”hYjrnghuytxpo
pex ojqk

“Zec,hoxhijhp sj,hnghos oe,hnghBxq’phzuckhAxylphusjhqnaajsjgokhOuljhcx 
gxz,hcx hzx yqg’ohzsxgbhuhtugkkkk”

“Cjp,hcjp,hbxxq-icj!”hpunqhYjrng,hisjuoeyjpphznoehjvfnojtjgo,hugq
o sgngbhsx gqhejhoxxlhenphponflhugqhzuyljqhw nflychuzuchoxzusqphextjk
Uohoejhmjupugo’phzxsqphoeuohAxlugnofehynrjqhaxshenphpx y,hnghos oe,hng
Bxq’phzuc,h gqjangjqhi ohpnbgnanfugohnqjuphpjjtjqhoxhi spohx ohup
oex behoejcheuqhijjghyxfljqh m,hugqhuyyhposnrngbhoxzusqphxgjhbxuy,hoejc
oesxgbjqhzensyngbhoesx behenphejuq,hiyngqngbhenthznoehoejnshynbeok


Feumojsh12

Yjrnghposxqjhuyxgbhoejhenbesxuq,huipxsijqhgxohpxht fehnghenphoex beop
(ejhfx yqhgxohcjohqnpjgougbyjhoejt)huphnghenphpmnsno uyhfxgqnonxg,
 gynljhugcoengbhejheuqhjvmjsnjgfjqhijaxsjk

Oejhzxsqph oojsjqhichoejhmjupugoheuqhufojqhxghenphpx yhynljhughjyjfosnf
pexfl,hp qqjgychosugpaxstngbhugqhfxtingngbhngoxhuhpngbyjhzexyjhoej
zexyjhpzusthxahqnp.xngojq,hntmxojgo,hpjmusuojhoex beophoeuohngfjppugoyc
xff mnjqhenphtngqkhOejpjhoex beopheuqh gfxgpfnx pychijjghnghenphtngq
jrjghzejghejhzuphouylngbhuix ohoejhyugqk

Ejhzuphuzusjhxahpxtjoengbhgjzhnghenphpx y,hugqh.xca yychojpojqhoenphgjz
oengb,hgxohcjohlgxzngbhzeuohnohzupk

“Gxohynrngbhaxshenphxzghzugop,hi ohaxshBxq?hAxshzeuohBxq?hUgqhfx yqhxgj
puchugcoengbhtxsjhpjgpjyjpphoeughzeuohejhpunq?hEjhpunqhoeuohxgjht po
gxohynrjhaxshxgj’phxzghzugop,hoeuohnp,hoeuohxgjht pohgxohynrjhaxshzeuo
zjh gqjspougq,hzeuohzjhusjhuoosufojqhic,hzeuohzjhqjpnsj,hi oht pohynrj
axshpxtjoengbhngfxtmsjejgpniyj,haxshBxq,hzexthgxhxgjhfugh gqjspougqhgxs
jrjghqjangjkhZeuohxahno?hQnqg’ohNh gqjspougqhoexpjhpjgpjyjpphzxsqphxa
Acxqxs’p?hUgqh gqjspougqngbhoejt,hqnqhNhqx iohxahoejnshos oe?hQnqhN
oenglhoejthpo mnq,hxipf sj,hngjvufo?hGx,hNh gqjspoxxqhent,hugqhjvufoyc
uphejh gqjspougqphoejhzxsqpkhNh gqjspoxxqhoejthtxsjha yychugqhfyjusyc
oeughNh gqjspougqhugcoengbhnghynaj,hugqhgjrjshnghtchynajheurjhNhqx iojq
gxshfughNhqx iohuix ohnokhUgqhgxohxgychN,hi ohjrjscxgj,hoejhzexyjhzxsyq
 gqjspougqphgxoengbha yychi ohoenp,hugqhuix ohoenphxgychoejcheurjhgx
qx iohugqhusjhuyzucphubsjjqk

“UgqhNhyxxljqhx ohaxshtnsufyjp,hfxtmyungjqhoeuohNhqnqhgxohpjjhuhtnsufyj
zenfehzx yqhfxgrngfjhtjkhUhtuojsnuyhtnsufyjhzx yqheurjhmjsp uqjqhtjk
Ugqhejsjhnphuhtnsufyj,hoejhpxyjhtnsufyjhmxppniyj,hfxgong uyychjvnpongb,
p ssx gqngbhtjhxghuyyhpnqjp,hugqhNhgjrjshgxonfjqhno!

“AcxqxshpucphoeuohLnsnyyxrhynrjphaxshenphijyyckhOeuo’phfxtmsjejgpniyj
ugqhsuonxguykhUyyhxah phuphsuonxguyhijngbphfug’ohqxhugcoengbhjypjhi o
ynrjhaxshx shijyyckhUgqhuyyhxahuhp qqjghoejhputjhAcxqxshpucphoeuohxgj
t pog’ohynrjhaxshxgj’phijyyc,hi oht pohynrjhaxshos oe,haxshBxq,hugqhuo
uhengohNh gqjspougqhent!hUgqhNhugqhtnyynxgphxahtjg,htjghzexhynrjqhubjp
ubxhugqhtjghynrngbhgxz—mjupugop,hoejhmxxshnghpmnsnohugqhoejhyjusgjq,
zexheurjhoex beohugqhzsnoojghuix ohno,hnghoejnshxipf sjhzxsqphpucngb
oejhputjhoengb—zjhusjhuyyhubsjjqhuix ohoenphxgjhoengb:hzeuohzjht po
ynrjhaxshugqhzeuohnphbxxqkhNhugqhuyyhtjgheurjhxgychxgjhanst,
ngfxgojpouiyj,hfyjushlgxzyjqbj,hugqhoeuohlgxzyjqbjhfuggxohijhjvmyungjq
ichoejhsjupxg—nohnphx opnqjhno,hugqheuphgxhfu pjphugqhfugheurjhgx
jaajfopk

“Nahbxxqgjppheuphfu pjp,hnohnphgxohbxxqgjpp;hnahnoheuphjaajfop,hu
sjzusq,hnohnphgxohbxxqgjpphjnoejskhPxhbxxqgjpphnphx opnqjhoejhfeunghxa
fu pjhugqhjaajfok

“UgqhcjohNhlgxzhno,hugqhzjhuyyhlgxzhnok

“Zeuohfx yqhijhuhbsjuojshtnsufyjhoeughoeuo?

“FughNheurjhax gqhoejhpxy onxghxahnohuyy?hfughtchp aajsngbphijhxrjs?”
oex beohYjrng,hposnqngbhuyxgbhoejhq pochsxuq,hgxohgxonfngbhoejhejuohgxs
enphzjusngjpp,hugqhjvmjsnjgfngbhuhpjgpjhxahsjynjahasxthmsxyxgbjq
p aajsngbkhOenphajjyngbhzuphpxhqjynfnx phoeuohnohpjjtjqhoxhent
ngfsjqniyjkhEjhzuphisjuoeyjpphznoehjtxonxghugqhngfumuiyjhxahbxngb
ausoejs;hejho sgjqhxaahoejhsxuqhngoxhoejhaxsjpohugqhyuchqxzghnghoej
peuqjhxahughupmjghxghoejh gf ohbsuppkhEjhoxxlhenpheuohxaahenphexohejuq
ugqhyuchmsxmmjqhxghenphjyixzhnghoejhy pe,hajuoejsc,hzxxqyugqhbsuppk

“Cjp,hNht pohtuljhnohfyjushoxhtcpjyahugqh gqjspougq,”hejhoex beo,
yxxlngbhngojgoychuohoejh gosutmyjqhbsupphijaxsjhent,hugqhaxyyxzngbhoej
txrjtjgophxahuhbsjjghijjoyj,huqrugfngbhuyxgbhuhiyuqjhxahfx fe-bsupphugq
ynaongbh mhnghnophmsxbsjpphuhyjuahxahbxuo-zjjqkh“ZeuoheurjhN
qnpfxrjsjq?”hejhupljqhentpjya,hijgqngbhupnqjhoejhyjuahxahbxuo-zjjqhx o
xahoejhijjoyj’phzuchugqhoznpongbhugxoejshiyuqjhxahbsupphuixrjhaxshoej
ijjoyjhoxhfsxpphxrjshxgoxhnokh“Zeuohnphnohtuljphtjhbyuq?hZeuoheurjhN
qnpfxrjsjq?

“NheurjhqnpfxrjsjqhgxoengbkhNheurjhxgychax gqhx ohzeuohNhlgjzkhN
 gqjspougqhoejhaxsfjhoeuohnghoejhmupohburjhtjhynaj,hugqhgxzhoxxhbnrjp
tjhynajkhNheurjhijjghpjohasjjhasxthauypnoc,hNheurjhax gqhoejhTupojsk

“XahxyqhNh pjqhoxhpuchoeuohnghtchixqc,hoeuohnghoejhixqchxahoenphbsupp
ugqhxahoenphijjoyjh(oejsj,hpejhqnqg’ohfusjhaxshoejhbsupp,hpej’phxmjgjq
ejshzngbphugqhayxzghuzuc),hoejsjhzuphbxngbhxghuhosugpaxstuonxghxa
tuoojshnghuffxsqugfjhznoehmecpnfuy,hfejtnfuy,hugqhmecpnxyxbnfuyhyuzpk
Ugqhnghuyyhxah p,huphzjyyhuphnghoejhupmjgphugqhoejhfyx qphugqhoejhtnpoc
muofejp,hoejsjhzuphuhmsxfjpphxahjrxy onxgkhJrxy onxghasxthzeuo?hngox
zeuo?—Jojsguyhjrxy onxghugqhpos bbyjkkkkhUphoex behoejsjhfx yqhijhugc
pxsohxahojgqjgfchugqhpos bbyjhnghoejhjojsguy!hUgqhNhzuphupoxgnpejqhoeuo
nghpmnojhxahoejh otxpohjaaxsohxahoex beohuyxgbhoeuohsxuqhNhfx yqhgxo
qnpfxrjshoejhtjugngbhxahynaj,hoejhtjugngbhxahtchntm ypjphugqhcjusgngbpk
GxzhNhpuchoeuohNhlgxzhoejhtjugngbhxahtchynaj:h‘OxhynrjhaxshBxq,haxshtc
px yk’hUgqhoenphtjugngb,hnghpmnojhxahnophfyjusgjpp,hnphtcpojsnx phugq
tusrjyx pkhP fe,hngqjjq,hnphoejhtjugngbhxahjrjscoengbhjvnpongbkhCjp,
msnqj,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjya,ho sgngbhxrjshxghenphpoxtufehugqhijbnggngb
oxhonjhuhgxxpjhxahiyuqjphxahbsupp,hoscngbhgxohoxhisjulhoejtk

“Ugqhgxohtjsjychmsnqjhxahngojyyjfo,hi ohq ygjpphxahngojyyjfokhUgqhtxpo
xahuyy,hoejhqjfjnoa ygjpp;hcjp,hoejhqjfjnoa ygjpphxahngojyyjfokhOej
fejuongbhlgurnpegjpphxahngojyyjfo,hoeuo’phno,”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyak

Ugqhejhisnjaychzjgohoesx be,htjgouyyc,hoejhzexyjhfx spjhxahenphnqjup
q sngbhoejhyupohozxhcjusp,hoejhijbnggngbhxahzenfehzuphoejhfyjus
fxgasxgongbhxahqjuoehuohoejhpnbeohxahenphqjushisxoejshexmjyjppychnyyk

Oejg,haxshoejhanspohontj,hbsupmngbhoeuohaxshjrjschtug,hugqhentpjyahoxx,
oejsjhzuphgxoengbhnghpoxsjhi ohp aajsngb,hqjuoe,hugqhaxsbjoa ygjpp,hej
euqhtuqjh mhenphtngqhoeuohynajhzuphntmxppniyjhynljhoeuo,hugqhoeuohej
t pohjnoejshngojsmsjohynajhpxhoeuohnohzx yqhgxohmsjpjgohnopjyahoxhent
uphoejhjrnyh.jpohxahpxtjhqjrny,hxshpexxohentpjyak

I ohejheuqhgxohqxgjhjnoejs,hi oheuqhbxgjhxghynrngb,hoenglngb,hugq
ajjyngb,hugqheuqhjrjghuohoeuohrjschontjhtussnjq,hugqheuqheuqhtugch.xcp
ugqheuqhijjgheummc,hzejghejhzuphgxohoenglngbhxahoejhtjugngbhxahenp
ynajk

Zeuohqnqhoenphtjug?hNohtjugohoeuohejheuqhijjghynrngbhsnbeoyc,hi o
oenglngbhzsxgbyck

Ejheuqhynrjqh(znoex ohijngbhuzusjhxahno)hxghoexpjhpmnsno uyhos oephoeuo
ejheuqhp fljqhnghznoehenphtxoejs’phtnyl,hi ohejheuqhoex beo,hgxohtjsjyc
znoex ohsjfxbgnonxghxahoejpjhos oep,hi ohpo qnx pychnbgxsngbhoejtk

Gxzhnohzuphfyjushoxhenthoeuohejhfx yqhxgychynrjhichrnso jhxahoej
ijynjaphnghzenfehejheuqhijjghisx beoh mk

“Zeuohpex yqhNheurjhijjg,hugqhexzhpex yqhNheurjhpmjgohtchynaj,hnahNheuq
gxoheuqhoejpjhijynjap,hnahNheuqhgxohlgxzghoeuohNht pohynrjhaxshBxqhugq
gxohaxshtchxzghqjpnsjp?hNhpex yqheurjhsxiijqhugqhynjqhugqhlnyyjqk
Gxoengbhxahzeuohtuljphoejhfenjaheummngjpphxahtchynajhzx yqheurjhjvnpojq
axshtjk”hUgqhznoehoejh otxpohposjofehxahntubnguonxghejhfx yqhgxo
fxgfjnrjhoejhis ouyhfsjuo sjhejhzx yqheurjhijjghentpjya,hnahejheuqhgxo
lgxzghzeuohejhzuphynrngbhaxsk

“Nhyxxljqhaxshughugpzjshoxhtchw jponxgkhUgqhoex beohfx yqhgxohbnrjhug
ugpzjshoxhtchw jponxg—nohnphngfxttjgp suiyjhznoehtchw jponxgkhOej
ugpzjsheuphijjghbnrjghtjhichynajhnopjya,hnghtchlgxzyjqbjhxahzeuohnp
snbeohugqhzeuohnphzsxgbkhUgqhoeuohlgxzyjqbjhNhqnqhgxohussnrjhuohnghugc
zuc,hnohzuphbnrjghoxhtjhuphoxhuyyhtjg,h_bnrjg_,hijfu pjhNhfx yqhgxo
eurjhbxohnohasxthugczejsjk

“Zejsjhfx yqhNheurjhbxohno?hIchsjupxghfx yqhNheurjhussnrjqhuohlgxzngb
oeuohNht pohyxrjhtchgjnbeixshugqhgxohxmmsjpphent?hNhzuphoxyqhoeuohnghtc
fenyqexxq,hugqhNhijynjrjqhnohbyuqyc,haxshoejchoxyqhtjhzeuohzuphuysjuqc
nghtchpx ykhI ohzexhqnpfxrjsjqhno?hGxohsjupxgkhSjupxghqnpfxrjsjqhoej
pos bbyjhaxshjvnpojgfj,hugqhoejhyuzhoeuohsjw nsjph phoxhxmmsjpphuyyhzex
engqjshoejhpuonpaufonxghxahx shqjpnsjpkhOeuohnphoejhqjq fonxghxa
sjupxgkhI ohyxrngbhxgj’phgjnbeixshsjupxghfx yqhgjrjshqnpfxrjs,hijfu pj
no’phnssuonxguyk”

Feumojsh13

UgqhYjrnghsjtjtijsjqhuhpfjgjhejheuqhyuojychznogjppjqhijozjjghQxyychugq
ejshfenyqsjgkhOejhfenyqsjg,hyjaohoxhoejtpjyrjp,heuqhijb ghfxxlngb
supmijssnjphxrjshoejhfugqyjphugqhpw nsongbhtnylhngoxhjufehxoejs’p
tx oephznoehuhpcsngbjkhOejnshtxoejs,hfuofengbhoejthuohoejpjhmsuglp,
ijbughsjtngqngbhoejthnghYjrng’phmsjpjgfjhxahoejhosx iyjhoejnshtnpfenja
burjhoxhoejhbsxzg- mhmjxmyj,hugqhoeuohoenphosx iyjhzuphuyyhaxshoejns
pulj,hugqhoeuohnahoejchptupejqhoejhf mphoejchzx yqheurjhgxoengbhox
qsnglhoejnshojuhx ohxa,hugqhoeuohnahoejchzupojqhoejhtnyl,hoejchzx yq
eurjhgxoengbhoxhjuo,hugqhqnjhxahe gbjsk

UgqhYjrngheuqhijjghpos flhichoejhmuppnrj,hzjuschngfsjq ynochznoehzenfe
oejhfenyqsjghejusqhzeuohoejnshtxoejshpunqhoxhoejtkhOejchzjsjhpntmyc
uggxcjqhoeuohoejnshut pngbhmyucheuqhijjghngojss mojq,hugqhqnqhgxo
ijynjrjhuhzxsqhxahzeuohoejnshtxoejshzuphpucngbkhOejchfx yqhgxohijynjrj
nohngqjjq,haxshoejchfx yqhgxohouljhnghoejhnttjgpnochxahuyyhoejc
euino uyychjg.xcjq,hugqhpxhfx yqhgxohfxgfjnrjhoeuohzeuohoejchzjsj
qjposxcngbhzuphoejhrjschoengbhoejchynrjqhick

“Oeuohuyyhfxtjphxahnopjya,”hoejchoex beo,h“ugqhoejsj’phgxoengb
ngojsjpongbhxshntmxsougohuix ohnohijfu pjhnoheuphuyzucphijjghpx,hugq
uyzucphznyyhijhpxkhUgqhno’phuyyhuyzucphoejhputjkhZj’rjhgxhgjjqhoxhoengl
uix ohoeuo,hno’phuyyhsjuqckhI ohzjhzugohoxhngrjgohpxtjoengbhxahx shxzg,
ugqhgjzkhPxhzjhoex beohxahm oongbhsupmijssnjphnghuhf m,hugqhfxxlngb
oejthxrjshuhfugqyj,hugqhpw nsongbhtnylhposunbeohngoxhjufehxoejs’p
tx oepkhOeuo’pha g,hugqhpxtjoengbhgjz,hugqhgxohuhinohzxspjhoeug
qsnglngbhx ohxahf mpk”

“Npg’ohnoh. pohoejhputjhoeuohzjhqx,hoeuohNhqnq,hpjusfengbhichoejhunqhxa
sjupxghaxshoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoejhaxsfjphxahguo sjhugqhoejhtjugngbhxa
oejhynajhxahtug?”hejhoex beok

“Ugqhqxg’ohuyyhoejhoejxsnjphxahmenyxpxmechqxhoejhputj,hoscngbhichoej
muoehxahoex beo,hzenfehnphposugbjhugqhgxohguo suyhoxhtug,hoxhisngbhent
oxhuhlgxzyjqbjhxahzeuohejheuphlgxzghyxgbhubx,hugqhlgxzphpxhfjsoungyc
oeuohejhfx yqhgxohynrjhuohuyyhznoex ohno?hNpg’ohnohqnpongfoychoxhij
pjjghnghoejhqjrjyxmtjgohxahjufehmenyxpxmejs’phoejxsc,hoeuohejhlgxzp
zeuohnphoejhfenjahpnbgnanfugfjhxahynajhijaxsjeugq,h. pohuphmxpnonrjyc
uphoejhmjupugohAcxqxs,hugqhgxohuhinohtxsjhfyjusychoeughej,hugqhnp
pntmychoscngbhichuhq inx phngojyyjfo uyhmuoehoxhfxtjhiuflhoxhzeuo
jrjscxgjhlgxzp?

“Gxzhoejg,hyjurjhoejhfenyqsjghoxhoejtpjyrjphoxhbjohoengbphuyxgjhugq
tuljhoejnshfsxfljsc,hbjohoejhtnylhasxthoejhfxzp,hugqhpxhxgkhZx yqhoejc
ijhgu beochoejg?hZec,hoejc’qhqnjhxahe gbjs!hZjyy,hoejg,hyjurjh phznoe
x shmuppnxgphugqhoex beop,hznoex ohugchnqjuhxahoejhxgjhBxq,hxahoej
Fsjuoxs,hxshznoex ohugchnqjuhxahzeuohnphsnbeo,hznoex ohugchnqjuhxa
txsuyhjrnyk

“. pohoschugqhi nyqh mhugcoengbhznoex ohoexpjhnqjup!

“Zjhxgychoschoxhqjposxchoejt,hijfu pjhzj’sjhpmnsno uyychmsxrnqjqhaxsk
Jvufoychynljhoejhfenyqsjg!

“ZejgfjheurjhNhoeuoh.xca yhlgxzyjqbj,hpeusjqhznoehoejhmjupugo,hoeuo
uyxgjhbnrjphmjufjhoxhtchpx y?hZejgfjhqnqhNhbjohno?

“Isx beoh mhznoehughnqjuhxahBxq,huhFesnponug,htchzexyjhynajhanyyjqhznoe
oejhpmnsno uyhiyjppngbphFesnponugnocheuphbnrjghtj,ha yyhxahoejt,hugq
ynrngbhxghoexpjhiyjppngbp,hynljhoejhfenyqsjghNhqnqhgxoh gqjspougqhoejt,
ugqhqjposxc,hoeuohnphoschoxhqjposxc,hzeuohNhynrjhickhUgqhuphpxxghuphug
ntmxsougohtxtjgohxahynajhfxtjp,hynljhoejhfenyqsjghzejghoejchusjhfxyq
ugqhe gbsc,hNho sghoxhEnt,hugqhjrjghyjpphoeughoejhfenyqsjghzejghoejns
txoejshpfxyqphoejthaxshoejnshfenyqnpehtnpfenja,hqxhNhajjyhoeuohtc
fenyqnpehjaaxsophuohzugoxghtuqgjpphusjhsjflxgjqhubungpohtjk

“Cjp,hzeuohNhlgxz,hNhlgxzhgxohichsjupxg,hi ohnoheuphijjghbnrjghoxhtj,
sjrjuyjqhoxhtj,hugqhNhlgxzhnohznoehtchejuso,hichaunoehnghoejhfenja
oengbhou beohichoejhfe sfek

“Oejhfe sfe!hoejhfe sfe!”hYjrnghsjmjuojqhoxhentpjyakhEjho sgjqhxrjshxg
oejhxoejshpnqj,hugqhyjugngbhxghenphjyixz,hajyyhoxhbudngbhngoxhoej
qnpougfjhuohuhejsqhxahfuooyjhfsxppngbhxrjshoxhoejhsnrjsk

“I ohfughNhijynjrjhnghuyyhoejhfe sfehojufejp?”hejhoex beo,hoscngb
entpjya,hugqhoenglngbhxahjrjscoengbhoeuohfx yqhqjposxchenphmsjpjgo
mjufjhxahtngqkhNgojgonxguyychejhsjfuyyjqhuyyhoexpjhqxfosngjphxahoej
fe sfehzenfeheuqhuyzucphpjjtjqhtxpohposugbjhugqheuqhuyzucphijjghu
po tiyngbhiyxflhoxhentk

“OejhFsjuonxg?hI ohexzhqnqhNhjvmyunghjvnpojgfj?hIchjvnpojgfj?hIc
gxoengb?hOejhqjrnyhugqhpngkhI ohexzhqxhNhjvmyunghjrny?kkkhOej
uoxgjtjgo?kkk

“I ohNhlgxzhgxoengb,hgxoengb,hugqhNhfughlgxzhgxoengbhi ohzeuoheuphijjg
oxyqhoxhtjhugqhuyyhtjgk”

Ugqhnohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohoejsjhzuphgxohuhpngbyjhusonfyjhxahaunoehxa
oejhfe sfehzenfehfx yqhqjposxchoejhfenjahoengb—aunoehnghBxq,hng
bxxqgjpp,huphoejhxgjhbxuyhxahtug’phqjpongck

 gqjshjrjschusonfyjhxahaunoehxahoejhfe sfehfx yqhijhm ohoejhaunoehng
oejhpjsrnfjhxahos oehngpojuqhxahxgj’phqjpnsjpkhUgqhjufehqxfosngjhqnq
gxohpntmychyjurjhoeuohaunoeh gpeuljg,hjufehqxfosngjhpjjtjqhjppjgonuyhox
fxtmyjojhoeuohbsjuohtnsufyj,hfxgong uyychtugnajpoh mxghjusoe,hoeuohtuqj
nohmxppniyjhaxshjufehtughugqhtnyynxgphxahqnaajsjgohpxsophxahtjg,hznpj
tjghugqhntijfnyjp,hxyqhtjghugqhfenyqsjg—uyyhtjg,hmjupugop,hYrxr,hLnooc,
ijbbusphugqhlngbphoxh gqjspougqhmjsajfoychoejhputjhxgjhoengb,hugqhox
i nyqh mhoejsjichoeuohynajhxahoejhpx yhzenfehuyxgjhnphzxsoehynrngb,hugq
zenfehuyxgjhnphmsjfnx phoxh pk

Ycngbhxghenphiufl,hejhbudjqh mhgxzhngoxhoejhenbe,hfyx qyjpphplckh“QxhN
gxohlgxzhoeuohoeuohnphngangnojhpmufj,hugqhoeuohnohnphgxohuhsx gqhusfe?
I o,hexzjrjshNhpfsjzh mhtchjcjphugqhposunghtchpnbeo,hNhfuggxohpjjhno
gxohsx gqhugqhgxohix gqjq,hugqhnghpmnojhxahtchlgxzngbhuix ohngangnoj
pmufj,hNhuthngfxgojpouiychsnbeohzejghNhpjjhuhpxynqhiy jhqxtj,hugqhtxsj
snbeohoeughzejghNhposunghtchjcjphoxhpjjhijcxgqhnok”

Yjrnghfjupjqhoenglngb,hugqhxgyc,huphnohzjsj,hynpojgjqhoxhtcpojsnx p
rxnfjphoeuohpjjtjqhouylngbh.xca yychugqhjusgjpoychznoenghentk

“Fughoenphijhaunoe?”hejhoex beo,huasunqhoxhijynjrjhnghenpheummngjppk
“TchBxq,hNhoeuglhOejj!”hejhpunq,hb ymngbhqxzghenphpxip,hugqhznoehixoe
eugqphis pengbhuzuchoejhojusphoeuohanyyjqhenphjcjpk


Feumojsh14

Yjrnghyxxljqhijaxsjhenthugqhpuzhuhejsqhxahfuooyj,hoejghejhfu beohpnbeo
xahenphosumhznoehSurjghnghoejhpeuaop,hugqhoejhfxufetug,hzex,hqsnrngbh m
oxhoejhejsq,hpunqhpxtjoengbhoxhoejhejsqptugkhOejghejhejusqhoejhsuooyj
xahoejhzejjyphugqhoejhpgxsohxahoejhpyjjlhexspjhfyxpjhichentkhI ohejhzup
pxhi snjqhnghenphoex beophoeuohejhqnqhgxohjrjghzxgqjshzechoejhfxufetug
euqhfxtjhaxshentk

Ejhxgychoex beohxahoeuohzejghoejhfxufetugheuqhqsnrjghw nojh mhoxhent
ugqhpex ojqhoxhentkh“OejhtnposjpphpjgohtjkhCx shisxoejsheuphfxtj,hugq
pxtjhbjgoyjtughznoehentk”

YjrnghbxohngoxhoejhosumhugqhoxxlhoejhsjngpkhUphoex beh. pohsx pjqhx o
xahpyjjm,haxshuhyxgbhzenyjhYjrnghfx yqhgxohfxyyjfohenphauf yonjpkhEj
pousjqhuohoejhpyjjlhexspjhayjfljqhznoehyuoejshijozjjghenpheu gfejphugq
xghenphgjfl,hzejsjhoejheusgjpphs iijq,hpousjqhuohNrughoejhfxufetug
pnoongbhijpnqjhent,hugqhsjtjtijsjqhoeuohejhzuphjvmjfongbhenphisxoejs,
oex beohoeuohenphznajhzuphtxpohynljych gjupchuohenphyxgbhuipjgfj,hugq
osnjqhoxhb jpphzexhzuphoejhrnpnoxshzexheuqhfxtjhznoehenphisxoejskhUgq
enphisxoejshugqhenphznajhugqhoejh glgxzghb jpohpjjtjqhoxhenthgxzhw noj
qnaajsjgohasxthijaxsjkhEjhaugfnjqhoeuohgxzhenphsjyuonxgphznoehuyyhtjg
zx yqhijhqnaajsjgok

“Znoehtchisxoejshoejsjhznyyhijhgxgjhxahoeuohuyxxagjpphoejsjhuyzucph pjq
oxhijhijozjjgh p,hoejsjhznyyhijhgxhqnpm ojp;hznoehLnoochoejsjhpeuyy
gjrjshijhw ussjyp;hznoehoejhrnpnoxs,hzexjrjshejhtuchij,hNhznyyhij
asnjgqychugqhgnfj;hznoehoejhpjsrugop,hznoehNrug,hnohznyyhuyyhij
qnaajsjgok”

M yyngbhoejhponaahsjnghugqhexyqngbhnghoejhbxxqhexspjhoeuohpgxsojqhznoe
ntmuonjgfjhugqhpjjtjqhijbbngbhoxhijhyjohbx,hYjrnghyxxljqhsx gqhuohNrug
pnoongbhijpnqjhent,hgxohlgxzngbhzeuohoxhqxhznoehenph gxff mnjqheugq,
fxgong uyychmsjppngbhqxzghenphpensohuphnohm aajqhx o,hugqhejhosnjqhox
angqhpxtjoengbhoxhpousohuhfxgrjspuonxghuix ohznoehentkhEjhzx yqheurj
punqhoeuohNrugheuqhm yyjqhoejhpuqqyj-bnsoeh mhoxxhenbe,hi ohoeuohzup
ynljhiyutj,hugqhejhyxgbjqhaxshasnjgqyc,hzusthouylkhGxoengbhjypj
xff ssjqhoxhentk

“Cx shexgxsht pohljjmhoxhoejhsnbeohugqhtngqhoeuohpo tm,”hpunqhoej
fxufetug,hm yyngbhoejhsjnghYjrnghejyqk

“Myjupjhqxg’ohox fehugqhqxg’ohojufehtj!”hpunqhYjrng,hugbjsjqhichoenp
ngojsajsjgfjkhGxz,huphuyzucp,hngojsajsjgfjhtuqjhenthugbsc,hugqhejhajyo
pxssxza yychuohxgfjhexzhtnpouljgheuqhijjghenphp mmxpnonxghoeuohenp
pmnsno uyhfxgqnonxghfx yqhnttjqnuojychfeugbjhenthnghfxgoufohznoe
sjuynock

Ejhzuphgxohuhw usojshxahuhtnyjhasxthextjhzejghejhpuzhBsnpeuhugqhOugcu
s ggngbhoxhtjjohentk

“ gfyjhLxpocu!htuttu’phfxtngb,hugqhbsugqauoejs,hugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,
ugqhpxtjxgjhjypj,”hoejchpunq,hfyutijsngbh mhngoxhoejhosumk

“Zexhnphej?”

“Ughuza yychojssniyjhmjspxg!hUgqhejhqxjphynljhoenphznoehenphustp,”hpunq
Ougcu,hbjoongbh mhnghoejhosumhugqhtntnflngbhLuourupxrk

“Xyqhxshcx gb?”hupljqhYjrng,hyu bengb,hsjtngqjqhxahpxtjxgj,hejhqnqhgxo
lgxzhzext,hichOugcu’phmjsaxstugfjk

“Xe,hNhexmjhno’phgxohuhonsjpxtjhmjspxg!”hoex beohYjrngk

Uphpxxghuphejho sgjq,huohuhijgqhnghoejhsxuq,hugqhpuzhoejhmusochfxtngb,
YjrnghsjfxbgndjqhLuourupxrhnghuhposuzheuo,hzuylngbhuyxgbhpzngbngbhenp
ustph. pohuphOugcuheuqhpexzghentkhLuourupxrhzuphrjschaxgqhxahqnpf ppngb
tjoumecpnfp,heurngbhqjsnrjqhenphgxonxgphasxthguo suyhpfnjgfjhzsnojsp
zexheuqhgjrjshpo qnjqhtjoumecpnfp,hugqhnghTxpfxzhYjrngheuqheuqhtugc
usb tjgophznoehenthxahyuojk

Ugqhxgjhxahoejpjhusb tjgop,hnghzenfehLuourupxrheuqhxirnx pychfxgpnqjsjq
oeuohejhfutjhxaahrnfoxsnx p,hzuphoejhanspohoengbhYjrnghoex beohxahuphej
sjfxbgndjqhentk

“Gx,hzeuojrjshNhqx,hNhzxg’ohusb jhugqhbnrjh oojsugfjhoxhtchnqjup
ynbeoyc,”hejhoex beok

Bjoongbhx ohxahoejhosumhugqhbsjjongbhenphisxoejshugqhLuourupxr,hYjrng
upljqhuix ohenphznajk

“PejheuphouljghTnocuhoxhLxyxl”h(uhfxmpjhgjushoejhex pj)kh“Pejhtjugohox
eurjhenthx ohoejsjhijfu pjhno’phpxhexohngqxxsp,”hpunqhQxyyckhYjrngheuq
uyzucphuqrnpjqhenphznajhgxohoxhouljhoejhiuichoxhoejhzxxq,hoenglngbhno
 gpuaj,hugqhejhzuphgxohmyjupjqhoxhejushoenpk

“Pejhs pejphuix ohasxthmyufjhoxhmyufjhznoehent,”hpunqhoejhmsngfj,
ptnyngbkh“Nhuqrnpjqhejshoxhoschm oongbhenthnghoejhnfjhfjyyusk”

“Pejhtjugohoxhfxtjhoxhoejhijj-ex pjkhPejhoex beohcx hzx yqhijhoejsjkhZj
usjhbxngbhoejsj,”hpunqhQxyyck

“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohusjhcx hqxngb?”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hauyyngbhiufl
asxthoejhsjpohugqhzuylngbhijpnqjhentk

“Xe,hgxoengbhpmjfnuykhI pchuph p uyhznoehoejhyugq,”hugpzjsjqhYjrngk
“Zjyy,hugqhzeuohuix ohcx ?hFxtjhaxshyxgb?hZjheurjhijjghjvmjfongbhcx 
axshp fehuhyxgbhontjk”

“XgychaxshuhaxsognbeokhN’rjhuhbsjuohqjuyhoxhqxhnghTxpfxzk”

Uohoejpjhzxsqphoejhisxoejsp’hjcjphtjo,hugqhYjrng,hnghpmnojhxahoej
qjpnsjhejhuyzucpheuq,hposxgbjshoeughjrjsh. pohgxz,hoxhijhxg
uaajfonxguojhugqhponyyhtxsjhxmjghojstphznoehenphisxoejs,hajyohug
uzlzusqgjpphnghyxxlngbhuohentkhEjhqsxmmjqhenphjcjphugqhqnqhgxohlgxz
zeuohoxhpuck

Fupongbhxrjshoejhp i.jfophxahfxgrjspuonxghoeuohzx yqhijhmyjupugohox
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hugqhzx yqhljjmhenthxaahoejhp i.jfohxahoejhPjsrnug
zushugqhoejhPyurxgnfhw jponxg,huohzenfehejheuqhengojqhichoejhuyy pnxg
oxhzeuohejheuqhoxhqxhnghTxpfxz,hYjrnghijbughoxhouylhxahPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe’phixxlk

“Zjyy,heurjhoejsjhijjghsjrnjzphxahcx shixxl?”hejhupljqk

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehptnyjqhuohoejhngojgonxguyhfeusufojshxahoejhw jponxgk

“Gxhxgjhnphngojsjpojqhnghoeuohgxz,hugqhNhyjpphoeughugcxgj,”hejhpunqk
“. pohyxxl,hQuscuhUyjvugqsxrgu,hzjhpeuyyheurjhuhpexzjs,”hejhuqqjq,
mxngongbhznoehuhp gpeuqjhuohoejhzenojhsunghfyx qphoeuohpexzjqhuixrjhoej
upmjghosjj-oxmpk

Ugqhoejpjhzxsqphzjsjhjgx behoxhsj-jpouiynpehubunghijozjjghoejhisxoejsp
oeuohoxgj—eusqychexponyj,hi ohfenyyc—zenfehYjrngheuqhijjghpxhyxgbngbhox
urxnqk

Yjrnghzjgoh mhoxhLuourupxrk

“Nohzuph.xyychxahcx hoxhtuljh mhcx shtngqhoxhfxtj,”hejhpunqhoxhentk

“N’rjhijjghtjugngbhoxhuhyxgbhzenyjkhGxzhzjhpeuyyheurjhpxtjhqnpf ppnxg,
zj’yyhpjjhoxhoeuokhEurjhcx hijjghsjuqngbhPmjgfjs?”

“Gx,hN’rjhgxohangnpejqhsjuqngbhent,”hpunqhYjrngkh“I ohNhqxg’ohgjjqhent
gxzk”

“Exz’phoeuo?hoeuo’phngojsjpongbkhZechpx?”

“NhtjughoeuohN’tha yychfxgrngfjqhoeuohoejhpxy onxghxahoejhmsxiyjtphoeuo
ngojsjpohtjhNhpeuyyhgjrjshangqhnghenthugqhenphynljkhGxzkkkk”

I ohLuourupxr’phpjsjgjhugqhbxxq-e txsjqhjvmsjppnxghp qqjgychpos flhent,
ugqhejhajyohp fehojgqjsgjpphaxshenphxzgheummchtxxq,hzenfehejhzup
 gtnpouluiychqnpo singbhichoenphfxgrjspuonxg,hoeuohejhsjtjtijsjqhenp
sjpxy onxghugqhpoxmmjqhpexsok

“I ohzj’yyhouylhyuojshxg,”hejhuqqjqkh“Nahzj’sjhbxngbhoxhoejhijj-ex pj,
no’phoenphzuc,huyxgbhoenphynooyjhmuoe,”hejhpunq,huqqsjppngbhoejthuyyk

Bxngbhuyxgbhoejhgussxzhmuoehoxhuhynooyjh gf ohtjuqxzhfxrjsjqhxghxgj
pnqjhznoehoenflhfy tmphxahisnyynugohejuso’p-jupjhutxgbhzenfehpoxxqh m
ejsjhugqhoejsjhouyy,hquslhbsjjgho aophxahejyyjixsj,hYjrnghpjooyjqhenp
b jpophnghoejhqjgpj,hfxxyhpeuqjhxahoejhcx gbhupmjgphxghuhijgfehugqhpxtj
po tmphm smxpjychm ohoejsjhaxshrnpnoxsphoxhoejhijj-ex pjhzexhtnbeohij
uasunqhxahoejhijjp,hugqhejhzjgohxaahentpjyahoxhoejhe ohoxhbjohisjuq,
f f tijsp,hugqhasjpehexgjc,hoxhsjbuyjhoejthznoek

Oscngbhoxhtuljhenphtxrjtjgophuphqjynijsuojhuphmxppniyj,hugqhynpojgngb
oxhoejhijjphoeuohi ddjqhtxsjhugqhtxsjhasjw jgoychmupohent,hejhzuyljq
uyxgbhoejhynooyjhmuoehoxhoejhe okhNghoejhrjschjgoschxgjhijjhe ttjq
ugbsnyc,hfu beohnghenphijusq,hi ohejhfusja yychjvosnfuojqhnokhBxngb
ngoxhoejhpeuqchx ojshsxxt,hejhoxxlhqxzghasxthoejhzuyyhenphrjny,hoeuo
e gbhxghuhmjb,hugqhm oongbhnohxg,hugqhoes pongbhenpheugqphngoxhenp
mxfljop,hejhzjgohngoxhoejhajgfjq-nghijj-busqjg,hzejsjhoejsjhpoxxqhng
oejhtnqpohxahuhfyxpjychtxzghpmufjhnghsjb yushsxzp,haupojgjqhznoehiupo
xghmxpop,huyyhoejhenrjphejhlgjzhpxhzjyy,hoejhxyqhpoxflp,hjufehznoehnop
xzghenpoxsc,hugqhuyxgbhoejhajgfjphoejhcx gbjshpzustphenrjqhoeuohcjusk
Nghasxgohxahoejhxmjgngbphxahoejhenrjp,hnohtuqjhenphjcjphbnqqchoxhzuofe
oejhijjphugqhqsxgjphzensyngbhsx gqhugqhsx gqhuix ohoejhputjhpmxo,hzenyj
utxgbhoejthoejhzxslngbhijjphayjzhnghugqhx ohznoehpmxnyphxshnghpjusfehxa
oejt,huyzucphnghoejhputjhqnsjfonxghngoxhoejhzxxqhoxhoejhayxzjsngbhyntj
osjjphugqhiuflhoxhoejhenrjpk

Enphjusphzjsjhanyyjqhznoehoejhngfjppugohe thnghrusnx phgxojp,hgxzhoej
i pche thxahoejhzxslngbhijjhaycngbhw nflychxaa,hoejghoejhiyusngbhxahoej
yudchqsxgj,hugqhoejhjvfnojqhi ddhxahoejhijjphxghb usqhmsxojfongbhoejns
msxmjsochasxthoejhjgjtchugqhmsjmusngbhoxhpongbkhXghoejhausoejshpnqjhxa
oejhajgfjhoejhxyqhijj-ljjmjshzuphpeurngbhuhexxmhaxshuho i,hugqhejhqnq
gxohpjjhYjrngkhYjrnghpoxxqhponyyhnghoejhtnqpohxahoejhijjenrjphugqhqnq
gxohfuyyhentk

Ejhzuphbyuqhxahuhfeugfjhoxhijhuyxgjhoxhsjfxrjshasxthoejhngay jgfjhxa
xsqnguschufo uyhynaj,hzenfeheuqhuysjuqchqjmsjppjqhenpheummchtxxqkhEj
oex beohoeuohejheuqhuysjuqcheuqhontjhoxhyxpjhenphojtmjshznoehNrug,hox
pexzhfxxygjpphoxhenphisxoejs,hugqhoxhouylhaynmmugoychznoehLuourupxrk

“Fughnoheurjhijjghxgychuhtxtjgouschtxxq,hugqhznyyhnohmupphugqhyjurjhgx
osufj?”hejhoex beokhI ohoejhputjhngpougo,hbxngbhiuflhoxhenphtxxq,hej
ajyohznoehqjynbeohoeuohpxtjoengbhgjzhugqhntmxsougoheuqheummjgjqhoxhentk
Sjuyhynajheuqhxgychaxshuhontjhxrjsfupohoejhpmnsno uyhmjufjhejheuq
ax gq,hi ohnohzuphponyyh gox fejqhznoenghentk

. pohuphoejhijjp,hzensyngbhsx gqhent,hgxzhtjgufngbhenthugqhqnposufongb
enphuoojgonxg,hmsjrjgojqhenthasxthjg.xcngbhfxtmyjojhmecpnfuyhmjufj,
axsfjqhenthoxhsjposunghenphtxrjtjgophoxhurxnqhoejt,hpxheuqhoejhmjooc
fusjphoeuoheuqhpzustjqhuix ohenthasxthoejhtxtjgohejhbxohngoxhoejhosum
sjposnfojqhenphpmnsno uyhasjjqxt;hi ohoeuohyupojqhxgychpxhyxgbhuphej
zuphutxgbhoejtkh. pohuphenphixqnychposjgboehzuphponyyh guaajfojq,hng
pmnojhxahoejhijjp,hpxhoxxhzuphoejhpmnsno uyhposjgboehoeuohejheuqh. po
ijfxtjhuzusjhxak

Feumojsh15

“Qxhcx hlgxz,hLxpocu,hznoehzexthPjsbjchNrugxrnofehosurjyjqhxghenphzuc
ejsj?”hpunqhQxyyc,hqxyngbhx ohf f tijsphugqhexgjchoxhoejhfenyqsjg;
“znoehRsxgplc!hEj’phbxngbhoxhPjsrnuk”

“Ugqhgxohuyxgj;hej’phoulngbhuhpw uqsxghx ohznoehenthuohenphxzg
jvmjgpj,”hpunqhLuourupxrk

“Oeuo’phoejhsnbeohoengbhaxshent,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Usjhrxy gojjsphponyy
bxngbhx ohoejg?”hejhuqqjq,hbyugfngbhuohPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehqnqhgxohugpzjskhEjhzuphfusja yychznoehuhiy gohlgnaj
bjoongbhuhynrjhijjhfxrjsjqhznoehponflchexgjchx ohxahuhf mha yyhxahzenoj
exgjcfxtik

“Nhpex yqhoenglhpx!hCx hpex yqheurjhpjjghzeuohzuphbxngbhxghuohoej
pouonxghcjpojsquc!”hpunqhLuourupxr,hinongbhznoehuh. nfchpx gqhngoxhu
f f tijsk

“Zjyy,hzeuohnphxgjhoxhtuljhxahno?hAxshtjsfc’phpulj,hqxhjvmyunghoxhtj,
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzejsjhusjhuyyhoexpjhrxy gojjsphbxngb,hzexthusjhoejc
anbeongbhznoe?”hupljqhoejhxyqhmsngfj,h gtnpouluiychoulngbh mhu
fxgrjspuonxghoeuoheuqhpms gbh mhnghYjrng’phuipjgfjk

“ZnoehoejhO slp,”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofehugpzjsjq,hptnyngbhpjsjgjyc,huphej
jvosnfuojqhoejhijj,hquslhznoehexgjchugqhejymyjppychlnflngb,hugqhm ohno
znoehoejhlgnajhxghuhpox ohupmjghyjuak

“I ohzexheuphqjfyusjqhzushxghoejhO slp?—NrughNrugxrnofehSubxdxrhugq
Fx gojpphYnqnuhNrugxrgu,huppnpojqhichTuqutjhPouey?”

“Gxhxgjheuphqjfyusjqhzus,hi ohmjxmyjhpctmuoendjhznoehoejnshgjnbeixsp’
p aajsngbphugqhusjhjubjshoxhejymhoejt,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“I ohoejhmsngfjhnphgxohpmjulngbhxahejym,”hpunqhYjrng,hfxtngbhoxhoej
uppnpougfjhxahenphauoejs-ng-yuz,h“i ohxahzuskhOejhmsngfjhpucphoeuo
msnruojhmjspxgphfuggxohouljhmusohnghzushznoex ohoejhmjstnppnxghxahoej
bxrjsgtjgok”

“Lxpocu,htngq,hoeuo’phuhijj!hSjuyyc,hoejc’yyhpongbh p!”hpunqhQxyyc,
zurngbhuzuchuhzupmk

“I ohoeuo’phgxohuhijj,hno’phuhzupm,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Zjyyhgxz,hzjyy,hzeuo’phcx shxzghoejxsc?”hLuourupxrhpunqhoxhYjrnghznoe
uhptnyj,hqnpongfoychfeuyyjgbngbhenthoxhuhqnpf ppnxgkh“Zecheurjhgxo
msnruojhmjspxgphoejhsnbeohoxhqxhpx?”

“Xe,htchoejxsc’phoenp:hzushnphxghxgjhpnqjhp fehuhijupoyc,hfs jy,hugq
uza yhoengb,hoeuohgxhxgjhtug,hgxohoxhpmjulhxahuhFesnponug,hfug
ngqnrnq uyychouljh mxghentpjyahoejhsjpmxgpninynochxahijbnggngbhzusp;
oeuohfughxgychijhqxgjhichuhbxrjsgtjgo,hzenfehnphfuyyjqh mxghoxhqxhoenp,
ugqhnphqsnrjghngjrnouiychngoxhzuskhXghoejhxoejsheugq,hixoehmxynonfuy
pfnjgfjhugqhfxttxghpjgpjhojufeh phoeuohnghtuoojsphxahpouoj,hugq
jpmjfnuyychnghoejhtuoojshxahzus,hmsnruojhfnondjgpht pohaxsjbxhoejns
mjspxguyhngqnrnq uyhznyyk”

PjsbjchNrugxrnofehugqhLuourupxrheuqhoejnshsjmynjphsjuqc,hugqhixoehijbug
pmjulngbhuohoejhputjhontjk

“I ohoejhmxngohnp,htchqjushajyyxz,hoeuohoejsjhtuchijhfupjphzejghoej
bxrjsgtjgohqxjphgxohfusschx ohoejhznyyhxahoejhfnondjgphugqhoejghoej
m iynfhuppjsophnophznyy,”hpunqhLuourupxrk

I ohjrnqjgoychPjsbjchNrugxrnofehqnqhgxohummsxrjhxahoenphugpzjskhEnp
isxzphfxgosufojqhuohLuourupxr’phzxsqphugqhejhpunqhpxtjoengbhjypjk

“Cx hqxg’ohm ohoejhtuoojshnghnophos jhynbeokhOejsjhnphgxhw jponxghejsj
xahuhqjfyusuonxghxahzus,hi ohpntmychoejhjvmsjppnxghxahuhe tughFesnponug
ajjyngbkhX shisxoejsp,hxgjhznoeh phnghsjynbnxghugqhnghsufj,husjhijngb
tuppufsjqkhJrjghp mmxpngbhoejchzjsjhgxohx shisxoejsphgxs
ajyyxz-Fesnponugp,hi ohpntmychfenyqsjg,hzxtjg,hxyqhmjxmyj,hajjyngbhnp
usx pjqhugqhS ppnugphbxhjubjsychoxhejymhnghpoxmmngbhoejpjhuosxfnonjpk
Augfc,hnahcx hzjsjhbxngbhuyxgbhoejhposjjohugqhpuzhqs gljghtjghijuongbhu
zxtughxshuhfenyq—Nhntubngjhcx hzx yqhgxohpoxmhoxhngw nsjhzejoejshzus
euqhijjghqjfyusjqhxghoejhtjg,hi ohzx yqhoesxzhcx spjyahxghoejt,hugq
msxojfohoejhrnfontk”

“I ohNhpex yqhgxohlnyyhoejt,”hpunqhYjrngk

“Cjp,hcx hzx yqhlnyyhoejtk”

“Nhqxg’ohlgxzkhNahNhpuzhoeuo,hNhtnbeohbnrjhzuchoxhtchntm ypjhxahoej
txtjgo,hi ohNhfug’ohpuchijaxsjeugqkhUgqhp fehuhtxtjgouschntm ypjhoejsj
nphgxo,hugqhoejsjhfuggxohij,hnghoejhfupjhxahoejhxmmsjppnxghxahoej
Pyurxgnfhmjxmyjpk”

“Mxppniychaxshcx hoejsjhnphgxo;hi ohaxshxoejsphoejsjhnp,”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hasxzgngbhznoehqnpmyjup sjkh“Oejsjhusjhosuqnonxgphponyy
jvougohutxgbhoejhmjxmyjhxahPyurphxahoejhos jhaunoehp aajsngbh gqjshoej
cxljhxahoejh‘ gfyjughpxgphxahEubusk’hOejhmjxmyjheurjhejusqhxahoej
p aajsngbphxahoejnshisjoesjghugqheurjhpmxljgk”

“Mjseumphpx,”hpunqhYjrnghjrupnrjyc;h“i ohNhqxg’ohpjjhnokhN’thxgjhxahoej
mjxmyjhtcpjya,hugqhNhqxg’ohajjyhnok”

“EjsjhuthNhoxx,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjkh“N’rjhijjghpoucngbhuisxuqhugq
sjuqngbhoejhmumjsp,hugqhNht pohxzg,h mhoxhoejhontjhxahoejhI ybusnug
uosxfnonjp,hNhfx yqg’ohtuljhx ohzechnohzuphuyyhoejhS ppnugphzjsjhuyyhxa
uhp qqjghpxhaxgqhxahoejnshPyurxgnfhisjoesjg,hzenyjhNhqnqg’ohajjyhoej
pynbeojpohuaajfonxghaxshoejtkhNhzuphrjscht feh mpjo,hoex beohNhzuphu
txgpojs,hxshoeuohnohzuphoejhngay jgfjhxahFusypiuqhxghtjkhI ohpngfjhN
eurjhijjghejsj,htchtngq’phijjghpjohuohsjpokhNhpjjhoeuohoejsjhusjhmjxmyj
ijpnqjphtjhzex’sjhxgychngojsjpojqhnghS ppnu,hugqhgxohnghoejnshPyurxgnf
isjoesjgkhEjsj’phLxgpougonghoxxk”

“Mjspxguyhxmngnxgphtjughgxoengbhnghp fehuhfupj,”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe;h“no’phgxohuhtuoojshxahmjspxguyhxmngnxgphzejghuyyhS ppnu—oej
zexyjhmjxmyj—euphjvmsjppjqhnophznyyk”

“I ohjvf pjhtj,hNhqxg’ohpjjhoeuokhOejhmjxmyjhqxg’ohlgxzhugcoengbhuix o
no,hnahcx hfxtjhoxhoeuo,”hpunqhoejhxyqhmsngfjk

“Xe,hmumu!kkkhexzhfughcx hpuchoeuo?hUgqhyupohP gquchnghfe sfe?”hpunq
Qxyyc,hynpojgngbhoxhoejhfxgrjspuonxgkh“Myjupjhbnrjhtjhuhfyxoe,”hpej
punqhoxhoejhxyqhtug,hzexhzuphyxxlngbhuohoejhfenyqsjghznoehuhptnyjk
“Zec,hno’phgxohmxppniyjhoeuohuyykkkk”

“I ohzeuohzuphnohnghfe sfehxghP gquc?hOejhmsnjpoheuqhijjghoxyqhoxhsjuq
oeuokhEjhsjuqhnokhOejchqnqg’oh gqjspougqhuhzxsqhxahnokhOejghoejchzjsj
oxyqhoeuohoejsjhzuphoxhijhuhfxyyjfonxghaxshuhmnx phxi.jfohnghfe sfe;
zjyy,hoejchm yyjqhx ohoejnsheuyamjgfjhugqhburjhoejt,hi ohzeuohaxshoejc
fx yqg’ohpuck”

“Oejhmjxmyjhfuggxohejymhlgxzngb;hoejhpjgpjhxahoejnshxzghqjpongnjphnp
uyzucphnghoejhmjxmyj,hugqhuohp fehtxtjgophuphoejhmsjpjgohoeuohpjgpj
angqph oojsugfj,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehznoehfxgrnfonxg,hbyugfngbhuo
oejhxyqhijj-ljjmjsk

Oejheugqpxtjhxyqhtug,hznoehiyuflhbsnddyjqhijusqhugqhoenflhpnyrjscheuns,
poxxqhtxonxgyjpp,hexyqngbhuhf mhxahexgjc,hyxxlngbhqxzghasxthoejhejnbeo
xahenphouyyhanb sjhznoehasnjgqychpjsjgnochuohoejhbjgoyjaxyl,hxirnx pyc
 gqjspougqngbhgxoengbhxahoejnshfxgrjspuonxghugqhgxohfusngbhox
 gqjspougqhnok

“Oeuo’phpx,hgxhqx io,”hejhpunq,hznoehuhpnbgnanfugohpeuljhxahenphejuqhuo
PjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phzxsqpk

“Ejsj,hoejg,huplhentkhEjhlgxzphgxoengbhuix ohnohugqhoenglphgxoengb,”
punqhYjrngkh“Eurjhcx hejusqhuix ohoejhzus,hTneuynofe?”hejhpunq,ho sgngb
oxhentkh“Zeuohoejchsjuqhnghoejhfe sfe?hZeuohqxhcx hoenglhuix ohno?
X beohzjhoxhanbeohaxshoejhFesnponugp?”

“Zeuohpex yqhzjhoengl?hUyjvugqjshGnlxyujrnofehx shJtmjsxsheuphoex beo
axsh p;hejhoenglphaxsh phngqjjqhnghuyyhoengbpkhNo’phfyjusjshaxshenthox
pjjkhPeuyyhNhisngbhuhinohtxsjhisjuq?hBnrjhoejhynooyjhyuqhpxtjhtxsj?”hej
punqhuqqsjppngbhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhugqhmxngongbhoxhBsnpeu,hzexheuq
angnpejqhenphfs pok

“Nhqxg’ohgjjqhoxhupl,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,h“zjheurjhpjjghugqhusj
pjjngbhe gqsjqphugqhe gqsjqphxahmjxmyjhzexhbnrjh mhjrjscoengbhoxhpjsrj
uh. pohfu pj,hfxtjhasxthjrjschmusohxahS ppnu,hugqhqnsjfoychugqhfyjusyc
jvmsjpphoejnshoex beohugqhuntkhOejchisngbhoejnsheuyamjgfjhxshbx
oejtpjyrjphugqhpuchqnsjfoychzeuohaxskhZeuohqxjphnohtjug?”

“Nohtjugp,hoxhtchoenglngb,”hpunqhYjrng,hzexhzuphijbnggngbhoxhbjohzust,
“oeuohutxgbhjnbeochtnyynxgphxahmjxmyjhoejsjhfughuyzucphijhax gqhgxo
e gqsjqp,huphgxz,hi ohojgphxahoex pugqphxahmjxmyjhzexheurjhyxpohfupoj,
gj’js-qx-zjyyp,hzexhusjhuyzucphsjuqchoxhbxhugczejsj—oxhMxbuofejr’p
iugqp,hoxhLenru,hoxhPjsinukkkk”

“Nhojyyhcx hoeuohno’phgxohuhfupjhxahe gqsjqphxshxahgj’js-qx-zjyyp,hi o
oejhijpohsjmsjpjgouonrjphxahoejhmjxmyj!”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hznoe
upht fehnssnouonxghuphnahejhzjsjhqjajgqngbhoejhyupohmjggchxahenp
axso gjkh“Ugqhzeuohxahoejhp ipfsnmonxgp?hNghoenphfupjhnohnphuhzexyj
mjxmyjhqnsjfoychjvmsjppngbhoejnshznyyk”

“Oeuohzxsqh‘mjxmyj’hnphpxhrub j,”hpunqhYjrngkh“Musnpehfyjslp,hojufejsp,
ugqhxgjhnghuhoex pugqhxahoejhmjupugop,htucij,hlgxzhzeuohno’phuyyhuix ok
Oejhsjpohxahoejhjnbeochtnyynxgp,hynljhTneuynofe,haushasxthjvmsjppngb
oejnshznyy,heurjg’ohoejhaungojpohnqjuhzeuohoejsjhnphaxshoejthoxhjvmsjpp
oejnshznyyhuix okhZeuohsnbeoheurjhzjhoxhpuchoeuohoenphnphoejhmjxmyj’p
znyy?”

Feumojsh16

PjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hijngbhmsufonfjqhnghusb tjgo,hqnqhgxohsjmyc,hi ohuo
xgfjho sgjqhoejhfxgrjspuonxghoxhugxoejshupmjfohxahoejhp i.jfok

“Xe,hnahcx hzugohoxhyjusghoejhpmnsnohxahoejhmjxmyjhichusnoetjonfuy
fxtm ouonxg,hxahfx spjhno’phrjschqnaanf yohoxhussnrjhuohnokhUgqhrxongb
euphgxohijjghngosxq fjqhutxgbh phugqhfuggxohijhngosxq fjq,haxshnohqxjp
gxohjvmsjpphoejhznyyhxahoejhmjxmyj;hi ohoejsjhusjhxoejshzucphxa
sjufengbhoeuokhNohnphajyohnghoejhuns,hnohnphajyohichoejhejusokhNhzxg’o
pmjulhxahoexpjhqjjmhf ssjgophzenfehusjhuponshnghoejhponyyhxfjughxahoej
mjxmyj,hugqhzenfehusjhjrnqjgohoxhjrjsch gmsj. qnfjqhtug;hyjoh phyxxlhuo
pxfnjochnghoejhgussxzhpjgpjkhUyyhoejhtxpohqnrjspjhpjfonxgphxahoej
jq fuojqhm iynf,hexponyjhijaxsj,husjhtjsbjqhnghxgjkhJrjschqnrnpnxghnp
uohughjgq,huyyhoejhm iynfhxsbugphpuchoejhputjhoengbhxrjshugqhxrjs
ubung,huyyhajjyhoejhtnbeochoxssjgohoeuoheuphxrjsouljghoejthugqhnp
fusscngbhoejthnghxgjhqnsjfonxgk”

“Cjp,huyyhoejhgjzpmumjsphqxhpuchoejhputjhoengb,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk
“Oeuo’phos jkhI ohpxhnohnphoejhputjhoengbhoeuohuyyhoejhasxbphfsxul
ijaxsjhuhpoxstkhXgjhfughejushgxoengbhaxshoejtk”

“Asxbphxshgxhasxbp,hN’thgxohoejhjqnoxshxahuhmumjshugqhNhqxg’ohzugohox
qjajgqhoejt;hi ohNhuthpmjulngbhxahoejh gugntnochnghoejhngojyyjfo uy
zxsyq,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,huqqsjppngbhenphisxoejskhYjrnghzx yq
eurjhugpzjsjq,hi ohoejhxyqhmsngfjhngojss mojqhentk

“Zjyy,huix ohoeuoh gugntnoc,hoeuo’phugxoejshoengb,hxgjhtuchpuc,”hpunq
oejhmsngfjkh“Oejsj’phtchpxg-ng-yuz,hPojmughUsluqcjrnofe,hcx hlgxzhentk
Ej’phbxohuhmyufjhgxzhxghoejhfxttnoojjhxahuhfxttnppnxghugqhpxtjoengbhxs
xoejs,hNhqxg’ohsjtjtijskhXgychoejsj’phgxoengbhoxhqxhnghno—zec,hQxyyc,
no’phgxhpjfsjo!—ugqhuhpuyuschxahjnbeohoex pugqkhCx hoschuplngbhent
zejoejshenphmxpohnphxah pj,hej’yyhmsxrjhoxhcx hoeuohno’phtxpo
gjfjppusckhUgqhej’phuhos oea yhtughoxx,hi ohoejsj’phgxhsja pngbhox
ijynjrjhnghoejh onynochxahjnbeohoex pugqhsx iyjpk”

“Cjp,hejhupljqhtjhoxhbnrjhuhtjppubjhoxhQuscuhUyjvugqsxrguhuix ohoej
mxpo,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehsjy fougoyc,hajjyngbhoejhmsngfj’phsjtusl
oxhijhnyy-ontjqk

“Pxhnohnphznoehoejh gugntnochxahoejhmsjppkhOeuo’phijjghjvmyungjqhoxhtj:
uphpxxghuphoejsj’phzushoejnshngfxtjphusjhqx iyjqkhExzhfughoejchejym
ijynjrngbhnghoejhqjpongnjphxahoejhmjxmyjhugqhoejhPyurxgnfhsufjphkkkhugq
uyyhoeuo?”

“Nhqxg’ohfusjhaxshtugchxahoejhmumjsp,hi ohoeuo’ph g. po,”hpunqhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofek

“Nhzx yqhxgychtuljhxgjhfxgqnonxg,”hm sp jqhoejhxyqhmsngfjkh“Uymexgpj
LusshpunqhuhfumnouyhoengbhijaxsjhoejhzushznoehMs ppnu:h‘Cx hfxgpnqjs
zushoxhijhngjrnouiyj?hRjschbxxqkhYjohjrjscxgjhzexhuqrxfuojphzushij
jgsxyyjqhnghuhpmjfnuyhsjbntjgohxahuqrugfj-b usqp,haxshoejhasxgohxa
jrjschpoxst,hxahjrjschuooufl,hoxhyjuqhoejthuyy!’”

“Uhgnfjhyxohoejhjqnoxsphzx yqhtulj!”hpunqhLuourupxr,hznoehuhyx qhsxus,
uphejhmnfo sjqhoejhjqnoxsphejhlgjzhnghoenphmnfljqhyjbnxgk

“I ohoejc’qhs g,”hpunqhQxyyc,h“oejc’qhxgychijhnghoejhzuck”

“Xe,hnahoejchsughuzuc,hoejghzj’qheurjhbsumj-pexohxshFxppuflphznoehzenmp
ijengqhoejt,”hpunqhoejhmsngfjk

“I ohoeuo’phuh.xlj,hugqhuhmxxshxgjhoxx,hnahcx ’yyhjvf pjhtchpucngbhpx,
msngfj,”hpunqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofek

“Nhqxg’ohpjjhoeuohnohzuphuh.xlj,hoeuokkkk”hYjrnghzuphijbnggngb,hi o
PjsbjchNrugxrnofehngojss mojqhentk

“Jrjschtjtijshxahpxfnjochnphfuyyjqh mxghoxhqxhenphxzghpmjfnuyhzxsl,”
punqhejkh“Ugqhtjghxahoex beohusjhqxngbhoejnshzxslhzejghoejchjvmsjpp
m iynfhxmngnxgkhUgqhoejhpngbyj-ejusojqhugqha yyhjvmsjppnxghxahm iynf
xmngnxghnphoejhpjsrnfjhxahoejhmsjpphugqhuhmejgxtjgxghoxhsj.xnfjh phuo
oejhputjhontjkhOzjgochcjusphubxhzjhpex yqheurjhijjghpnyjgo,hi ohgxzhzj
eurjhejusqhoejhrxnfjhxahoejhS ppnughmjxmyj,hzenfehnphsjuqchoxhsnpjhup
xgjhtughugqhsjuqchoxhpufsnanfjhnopjyahaxshnophxmmsjppjqhisjoesjg;hoeuo
nphuhbsjuohpojmhugqhuhmsxxahxahposjgboek”

“I ohno’phgxohxgychtulngbhuhpufsnanfj,hi ohlnyyngbhO slp,”hpunqhYjrng
ontnqyckh“Oejhmjxmyjhtuljhpufsnanfjphugqhusjhsjuqchoxhtuljhpufsnanfjp
axshoejnshpx y,hi ohgxohaxsht sqjs,”hejhuqqjq,hngpongfonrjychfxggjfongb
oejhfxgrjspuonxghznoehoejhnqjuphoeuoheuqhijjghuipxsingbhenphtngqk

“Axshoejnshpx y?hOeuo’phuhtxpohm ddyngbhjvmsjppnxghaxshuhguo suy
pfnjgfjhtug,hqxhcx h gqjspougq?hZeuohpxsohxahoengbhnphoejhpx y?”hpunq
Luourupxr,hptnyngbk

“Xe,hcx hlgxz!”

“Gx,hichBxq,hNheurjg’ohoejhaungojpohnqju!”hpunqhLuourupxrhznoehuhyx q
sxushxahyu beojsk

“‘Nhisngbhgxohmjufj,hi ohuhpzxsq,’hpucphFesnpo,”hPjsbjchNrugxrnofe
sj.xngjqhaxshenphmuso,hw xongbhuphpntmychuphoex behnohzjsjhoejhjupnjpo
oengbhoxh gqjspougqhoejhrjschmuppubjhoeuoheuqhuyzucphm ddyjqhYjrng
txpok

“Oeuo’phpx,hgxhqx io,”hoejhxyqhtughsjmjuojqhubungkhEjhzuphpougqngbhgjus
oejthugqhsjpmxgqjqhoxhuhfeugfjhbyugfjho sgjqhnghenphqnsjfonxgk

“Ue,htchqjushajyyxz,hcx ’sjhqjajuojq,h oojsychqjajuojq!”hfsnjq
Luourupxrhbxxq-e txsjqyck

Yjrnghsjqqjgjqhznoehrjvuonxg,hgxohuohijngbhqjajuojq,hi ohuoheurngb
aunyjqhoxhfxgosxyhentpjyahugqhijngbhqsuzghngoxhusb tjgok

“Gx,hNhfug’ohusb jhznoehoejt,”hejhoex beo;h“oejchzjushntmjgjosuiyj
ustxs,hzenyjhN’thguljqk”

EjhpuzhoeuohnohzuphntmxppniyjhoxhfxgrngfjhenphisxoejshugqhLuourupxr,
ugqhejhpuzhjrjghyjpphmxppninynochxahentpjyahubsjjngbhznoehoejtkhZeuo
oejchuqrxfuojqhzuphoejhrjschmsnqjhxahngojyyjfohoeuoheuqhuytxpohijjghenp
s ngkhEjhfx yqhgxohuqtnohoeuohpxtjhqxdjgphxahtjg,hutxgbhoejthenp
isxoejs,heuqhoejhsnbeo,hxghoejhbsx gqhxahzeuohoejchzjsjhoxyqhichpxtj
e gqsjqphxahbynihrxy gojjsphpzustngbhoxhoejhfumnouy,hoxhpuchoeuohoejc
ugqhoejhgjzpmumjsphzjsjhjvmsjppngbhoejhznyyhugqhajjyngbhxahoejhmjxmyj,
ugqhuhajjyngbhzenfehzuphjvmsjppjqhnghrjgbjugfjhugqht sqjskhEjhfx yqhgxo
uqtnohoenp,hijfu pjhejhgjnoejshpuzhoejhjvmsjppnxghxahp fehajjyngbphng
oejhmjxmyjhutxgbhzexthejhzuphynrngb,hgxshax gqhoejthnghentpjyah(ugqhej
fx yqhgxohi ohfxgpnqjshentpjyahxgjhxahoejhmjspxgphtulngbh mhoejhS ppnug
mjxmyj),hugqhtxpohxahuyyhijfu pjhej,hynljhoejhmjxmyj,hqnqhgxohlgxzhugq
fx yqhgxohlgxzhzeuohnphaxshoejhbjgjsuyhbxxq,hoex behejhlgjzhijcxgqhu
qx iohoeuohoenphbjgjsuyhbxxqhfx yqhijhuooungjqhxgychichoejhposnfo
xipjsrugfjhxahoeuohyuzhxahsnbeohugqhzsxgbhzenfeheuphijjghsjrjuyjqhox
jrjschtug,hugqhoejsjaxsjhejhfx yqhgxohznpehaxshzushxshuqrxfuojhzushaxs
ugchbjgjsuyhxi.jfophzeuojrjskhEjhpunqhuphTneuynofehqnqhugqhoejhmjxmyj,
zexheuqhjvmsjppjqhoejnshajjyngbhnghoejhosuqnonxguyhngrnouonxgphxahoej
Ruscubn:h“Ijhmsngfjphugqhs yjhxrjsh pkhByuqychzjhmsxtnpjhfxtmyjoj
p itnppnxgkhUyyhoejhyuixs,huyyhe tnynuonxgp,huyyhpufsnanfjphzjhoulj
 mxghx spjyrjp;hi ohzjhznyyhgxoh. qbjhugqhqjfnqjk”hUgqhgxz,huffxsqngb
oxhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phuffx go,hoejhmjxmyjheuqhaxsjbxgjhoenphmsnrnyjbj
oejcheuqhix beohuohp fehuhfxpoychmsnfjk

Ejhzugojqhoxhpuchoxxhoeuohnahm iynfhxmngnxghzjsjhughngauyyniyjhb nqj,
oejghzechzjsjhgxohsjrxy onxgphugqhoejhfxtt gjhuphyuza yhuphoejhtxrjtjgo
nghaurxshxahoejhPyurxgnfhmjxmyjp?hI ohoejpjhzjsjhtjsjychoex beophoeuo
fx yqhpjooyjhgxoengbkhXgjhoengbhfx yqhijhpjjghijcxgqhqx io—oeuohzup
oeuohuohoejhufo uyhtxtjgohoejhqnpf ppnxghzuphnssnouongbhPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofe,hugqhpxhnohzuphzsxgbhoxhfxgong jhnokhUgqhYjrnghfjupjq
pmjulngbhugqhoejghfuyyjqhoejhuoojgonxghxahenphb jpophoxhoejhaufohoeuo
oejhpoxsthfyx qphzjsjhbuoejsngb,hugqhoeuohoejcheuqhijoojshijhbxngbhextj
ijaxsjhnohsungjqk


Feumojsh17

OejhxyqhmsngfjhugqhPjsbjchNrugxrnofehbxohngoxhoejhosumhugqhqsxrjhxaa;
oejhsjpohxahoejhmusocheupojgjqhextjzusqphxghaxxok

I ohoejhpoxst-fyx qp,ho sgngbhzenojhugqhoejghiyufl,htxrjqhqxzghpx
w nflychoeuohoejcheuqhoxhw nfljghoejnshmufjhoxhbjohextjhijaxsjhoej
sungkhOejhaxsjtxpohfyx qp,hyxzjsngbhugqhiyuflhuphpxxo-yuqjghptxlj,
s pejqhznoehjvosuxsqnguschpznaogjpphxrjshoejhplckhOejchzjsjhponyyhozx
e gqsjqhmufjphasxthextjhugqhuhb pohxahzngqheuqhuysjuqchiyxzgh m,hugq
jrjschpjfxgqhoejhqxzgmx shtnbeohijhyxxljqhaxsk

Oejhfenyqsjghsughuejuqhznoehasnbeojgjqhugqhbyjja yhpesnjlpkhQuscu
Uyjvugqsxrgu,hpos bbyngbhmunga yychznoehejshplnsophoeuohfy gbhsx gqhejs
yjbp,hzuphgxohzuylngb,hi ohs ggngb,hejshjcjphanvjqhxghoejhfenyqsjgkhOej
tjghxahoejhmusoc,hexyqngbhoejnsheuophxg,hposxqjhznoehyxgbhpojmphijpnqj
ejskhOejchzjsjh. pohuohoejhpojmphzejghuhinbhqsxmhajyyhpmyupengbhxghoej
jqbjhxahoejhnsxghb oojsngbkhOejhfenyqsjghugqhoejnshjyqjsphuaojshoejt
sughngoxhoejhpejyojshxahoejhex pj,houylngbhtjssnyck

“LuojsnguhUyjvugqsxrgu?”hYjrnghupljqhxahUbuajuhTneuyxrgu,hzexhtjohoejt
znoehljsfenjaphugqhs bphnghoejheuyyk

“Zjhoex beohpejhzuphznoehcx ,”hpejhpunqk

“UgqhTnocu?”

“Nghoejhfxmpj,hejht pohij,hugqhoejhg spjhznoehentk”

Yjrnghpguofejqh mhoejhs bphugqhsughoxzusqphoejhfxmpjk

Nghoeuohisnjahngojsruyhxahontjhoejhpoxsthfyx qpheuqhtxrjqhxg,hfxrjsngb
oejhp ghpxhfxtmyjojychoeuohnohzuphquslhuphughjfynmpjkhPo iixsgyc,hup
oex behngpnpongbhxghnophsnbeop,hoejhzngqhpoxmmjqhYjrng,hugqhojusngbhoej
yjurjphugqhayxzjsphxaahoejhyntjhosjjphugqhposnmmngbhoejhzenojhinsfe
isugfejphngoxhposugbjh gpjjtychguljqgjpp,hnohoznpojqhjrjscoengbhxghxgj
pnqj—ufufnup,hayxzjsp,hi sqxflp,hyxgbhbsupp,hugqhouyyhosjj-oxmpkhOej
mjupugohbnsyphzxslngbhnghoejhbusqjghsughpesnjlngbhngoxhpejyojshnghoej
pjsrugop’hw usojspkhOejhposjutngbhsungheuqhuysjuqchay gbhnophzenojhrjny
xrjshuyyhoejhqnpougohaxsjpohugqheuyahoejhanjyqphfyxpjhic,hugqhzup
sumnqychpzxxmngbhqxzgh mxghoejhfxmpjkhOejhzjohxahoejhsunghpm songbh m
nghongchqsxmphfx yqhijhptjyohnghoejhunsk

Exyqngbhenphejuqhijgohqxzghijaxsjhent,hugqhpos bbyngbhznoehoejhzngq
oeuohposxrjhoxhojushoejhzsumphuzuchasxthent,hYjrnghzuphtxrngbh mhoxhoej
fxmpjhugqheuqh. pohfu beohpnbeohxahpxtjoengbhzenojhijengqhoejhxulhosjj,
zejghoejsjhzuphuhp qqjghayupe,hoejhzexyjhjusoehpjjtjqhxghansj,hugqhoej
ru yohxahejurjghpjjtjqhfsupengbhxrjsejuqkhXmjgngbhenphiyngqjqhjcjp,
Yjrnghbudjqhoesx behoejhoenflhrjnyhxahsunghoeuohpjmusuojqhenthgxzhasxt
oejhfxmpj,hugqhoxhenphexssxshoejhanspohoengbhejhpuzhzuphoejhbsjjghfsjpo
xahoejhautnynushxul-osjjhnghoejhtnqqyjhxahoejhfxmpjh gfuggnychfeugbngb
nophmxpnonxgkh“Fughnoheurjhijjghpos fl?”hYjrngheusqycheuqhontjhoxhoengl
zejg,htxrngbhtxsjhugqhtxsjhsumnqyc,hoejhxulhosjjhrugnpejqhijengqhoej
xoejshosjjp,hugqhejhejusqhoejhfsupehxahoejhbsjuohosjjhauyyngbh mxghoej
xoejspk

Oejhayupehxahynbeogngb,hoejhfsupehxahoe gqjs,hugqhoejhngpougougjx p
fenyyhoeuohsughoesx behenthzjsjhuyyhtjsbjqhaxshYjrnghnghxgjhpjgpjhxa
ojssxsk

“TchBxq!htchBxq!hgxohxghoejt!”hejhpunqk

Ugqhoex behejhoex beohuohxgfjhexzhpjgpjyjpphzuphenphmsucjshoeuohoejc
pex yqhgxoheurjhijjghlnyyjqhichoejhxulhzenfeheuqhauyyjghgxz,hej
sjmjuojqhno,hlgxzngbhoeuohejhfx yqhqxhgxoengbhijoojshoeugh oojshoenp
pjgpjyjpphmsucjsk

S ggngbh mhoxhoejhmyufjhzejsjhoejch p uyychzjgo,hejhqnqhgxohangqhoejt
oejsjk

Oejchzjsjhuohoejhxoejshjgqhxahoejhfxmpjh gqjshughxyqhyntj-osjj;hoejc
zjsjhfuyyngbhentkhOzxhanb sjphnghquslhqsjppjph(oejcheuqhijjghynbeo
p ttjshqsjppjphzejghoejchpousojqhx o)hzjsjhpougqngbhijgqngbhxrjs
pxtjoengbkhNohzuphLnoochznoehoejhg spjkhOejhsunghzuphuysjuqchfjupngb,
ugqhnohzuphijbnggngbhoxhbjohynbeohzejghYjrnghsjufejqhoejtkhOejhg spj
zuphgxohzjohxghoejhyxzjshmusohxahejshqsjpp,hi ohLnoochzuphqsjgfejq
oesx be,hugqhejshpxuljqhfyxoejphfy gbhoxhejskhOex behoejhsunghzuphxrjs,
oejchponyyhpoxxqhnghoejhputjhmxpnonxghnghzenfehoejcheuqhijjghpougqngb
zejghoejhpoxsthisxljkhIxoehpoxxqhijgqngbhxrjshuhmjsuti yuoxshznoehu
bsjjgh tisjyyuk

“Uynrj?h ge so?hOeuglhBxq!”hejhpunq,hpmyupengbhznoehenphpxuljqhixxop
oesx behoejhpougqngbhzuojshugqhs ggngbh mhoxhoejtk

Lnooc’phsxpchzjohaufjhzupho sgjqhoxzusqphent,hugqhpejhptnyjqhontnqyc
 gqjshejshpeumjyjpphpxmmjqheuok

“Usjg’ohcx hupeutjqhxahcx spjya?hNhfug’ohoenglhexzhcx hfughijhpx
sjflyjpp!”hejhpunqhugbsnychoxhenphznajk

“Nohzupg’ohtchau yo,hsjuyyckhZjhzjsjh. pohtjugngbhoxhbx,hzejghejhtuqj
p fehuhox-qxhoeuohzjheuqhoxhfeugbjhentkhZjhzjsjh. pokkkk”hLnoochijbug
qjajgqngbhejspjyak

Tnocuhzuph geustjq,hqsc,hugqhponyyhaupohupyjjmk

“Zjyy,hoeuglhBxq!hNhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohN’thpucngb!”

Oejchbuoejsjqh mhoejhiuic’phzjohijyxgbngbp;hoejhg spjhmnfljqh mhoej
iuichugqhfussnjqhnokhYjrnghzuyljqhijpnqjhenphznaj,hugq,hmjgnojgohaxs
eurngbhijjghugbsc,hejhpw jjdjqhejsheugqhzejghoejhg spjhzuphgxohyxxlngbk


Feumojsh18

Q sngbhoejhzexyjhxahoeuohquc,hnghoejhjvosjtjychqnaajsjgohfxgrjspuonxgp
nghzenfehejhoxxlhmuso,hxgychuphnohzjsjhznoehoejhoxmhyucjshxahenphtngq,
nghpmnojhxahoejhqnpummxngotjgohxahgxohangqngbhoejhfeugbjhejhjvmjfojqhng
entpjya,hYjrngheuqhijjghuyyhoejhzenyjh.xca yychfxgpfnx phxahoejha ygjpp
xahenphejusok

Uaojshoejhsunghnohzuphoxxhzjohoxhbxhaxshuhzuyl;hijpnqjp,hoejhpoxst
fyx qphponyyhe gbhuix ohoejhexsndxg,hugqhbuoejsjqhejsjhugqhoejsj,hiyufl
ugqhoe gqjsc,hxghoejhsnthxahoejhplckhOejhzexyjhmusochpmjgohoejhsjpohxa
oejhquchnghoejhex pjk

Gxhtxsjhqnpf ppnxgphpmsugbh m;hxghoejhfxgosusc,huaojshqnggjshjrjscxgj
zuphnghoejhtxpohutnuiyjhasutjhxahtngqk

UohanspohLuourupxrhut pjqhoejhyuqnjphichenphxsnbnguyh.xljp,hzenfe
uyzucphmyjupjqhmjxmyjhxghoejnshanspohufw ungougfjhznoehentkhOejghPjsbjc
Nrugxrnofehngq fjqhenthoxhojyyhoejthuix ohoejhrjschngojsjpongb
xipjsruonxgphejheuqhtuqjhxghoejheuinophugqhfeusufojsnponfphxahfxttxg
ex pjaynjp,hugqhoejnshynajkhPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hoxx,hzuphnghbxxq
pmnsnop,hugqhuohojuhenphisxoejshqsjzhenthxghoxhjvmyunghenphrnjzphxahoej
a o sjhxahoejhJupojsghw jponxg,hugqhejhpmxljhpxhpntmychugqhpxhzjyy,
oeuohjrjscxgjhynpojgjqhjubjsyck

Lnoochzuphoejhxgychxgjhzexhqnqhgxohejushnohuyy—pejhzuphp ttxgjqhoxhbnrj
Tnocuhenphiuoek

Uhajzhtng ojphuaojshLnoocheuqhyjaohoejhsxxthpejhpjgohaxshYjrnghoxhfxtj
oxhoejhg spjsck

Yjurngbhenphoju,hugqhsjbsjoa yychngojss mongbhoejhngojsjpongb
fxgrjspuonxg,hugqhuohoejhputjhontjh gjupnychzxgqjsngbhzechejheuqhijjg
pjgohaxs,huphoenphxgycheummjgjqhxghntmxsougohxffupnxgp,hYjrnghzjgohox
oejhg spjsck

Uyoex behejheuqhijjght fehngojsjpojqhichPjsbjchNrugxrnofe’phrnjzphxa
oejhgjzhjmxfehnghenpoxschoeuohzx yqhijhfsjuojqhichoejhjtugfnmuonxghxa
axsochtnyynxgphxahtjghxahPyurxgnfhsufjhufongbhznoehS ppnu,huhfxgfjmonxg
w nojhgjzhoxhent,hugqhuyoex behejhzuphqnpo sijqhich gjupchzxgqjshuo
ijngbhpjgohaxshichLnooc,huphpxxghuphejhfutjhx ohxahoejhqsuzngb-sxxthugq
zuphuyxgj,henphtngqhsjrjsojqhuohxgfjhoxhoejhoex beophxahoejhtxsgngbk
UgqhuyyhoejhoejxsnjphxahoejhpnbgnanfugfjhxahoejhPyurhjyjtjgohnghoej
enpoxschxahoejhzxsyqhpjjtjqhoxhenthpxhosnrnuyhfxtmusjqhznoehzeuohzup
muppngbhnghenphxzghpx y,hoeuohejhngpougoychaxsbxohnohuyyhugqhqsxmmjq
iuflhngoxhoejhputjhasutjhxahtngqhoeuohejheuqhijjghnghoeuohtxsgngbk

Ejhqnqhgxo,huphejheuqhqxgjhuohxoejshontjp,hsjfuyyhoejhzexyjhosunghxa
oex beo—oeuohejhqnqhgxohgjjqkhEjhajyyhiuflhuohxgfjhngoxhoejhajjyngb
zenfeheuqhb nqjqhent,hzenfehzuphfxggjfojqhznoehoexpjhoex beop,hugqhej
ax gqhoeuohajjyngbhnghenphpx yhjrjghposxgbjshugqhtxsjhqjangnojhoeug
ijaxsjkhEjhqnqhgxo,huphejheuqheuqhoxhqxhznoehmsjrnx phuoojtmophoxhangq
fxtaxsongbhusb tjgop,hgjjqhoxhsjrnrjhuhzexyjhfeunghxahoex beohoxhangq
oejhajjyngbkhGxz,hxghoejhfxgosusc,hoejhajjyngbhxah.xchugqhmjufjhzup
ljjgjshoeughjrjs,hugqhoex beohfx yqhgxohljjmhmufjhznoehajjyngbk

Ejhzuyljqhufsxpphoejhojssufjhugqhyxxljqhuohozxhpousphoeuoheuqhfxtjhx o
nghoejhqusljgngbhplc,hugqhp qqjgychejhsjtjtijsjqkh“Cjp,hyxxlngbhuohoej
plc,hNhoex beohoeuohoejhqxtjhoeuohNhpjjhnphgxohuhqjfjmonxg,hugqhoejghN
oex beohpxtjoengb,hNhpensljqhaufngbhpxtjoengb,”hejht pjqkh“I ohzeuojrjs
nohzup,hoejsjhfughijhgxhqnpmsxrngbhno!hNheurjhi ohoxhoengl,hugqhuyy
znyyhfxtjhfyjus!”

. pohuphejhzuphbxngbhngoxhoejhg spjschejhsjtjtijsjqhzeuohnohzuphejheuq
pensljqhaufngbkhNohzuphoeuohnahoejhfenjahmsxxahxahoejhQnrngnochzuphEnp
sjrjyuonxghxahzeuohnphsnbeo,hexzhnphnohoenphsjrjyuonxghnphfxgangjqhox
oejhFesnponughfe sfehuyxgj?hZeuohsjyuonxghoxhoenphsjrjyuonxgheurjhoej
ijynjaphxahoejhI qqenpop,hTxeuttjqugp,hzexhmsjufejqhugqhqnqhbxxqhoxx?

Nohpjjtjqhoxhenthoeuohejheuqhughugpzjshoxhoenphw jponxg;hi ohejheuqhgxo
ontjhoxhaxst yuojhnohoxhentpjyahijaxsjhejhzjgohngoxhoejhg spjsck

Lnoochzuphpougqngbhznoehejshpyjjrjpho fljqh mhxrjshoejhiuichnghoej
iuoekhEjusngbhejshe piugq’phaxxopojm,hpejho sgjqhoxzusqphent,hp ttxgngb
enthoxhejshznoehejshptnyjkhZnoehxgjheugqhpejhzuphp mmxsongbhoejhauo
iuichoeuohyuchayxuongbhugqhpmsuzyngbhxghnophiufl,hzenyjhznoehoejhxoejs
pejhpw jjdjqhoejhpmxgbjhxrjshentk

“Fxtj,hyxxl,hyxxl!”hpejhpunq,hzejghejshe piugqhfutjh mhoxhejskh“Ubuaju
Tneuyxrgu’phsnbeokhEjhlgxzph p!”

Tnocuheuqhxghoeuohquchbnrjgh gtnpouluiyj,hngfxgojpouiyjhpnbgphxa
sjfxbgndngbhuyyhenphasnjgqpk

UphpxxghuphYjrnghummsxufejqhoejhiuoe,hoejhjvmjsntjgohzuphosnjq,hugqhno
zuphfxtmyjojychp ffjppa ykhOejhfxxl,hpjgohaxshznoehoenphxi.jfo,hijgo
xrjshoejhiuickhEjhasxzgjqhugqhpexxlhenphejuqhqnpummsxrngbyckhLnoochijgo
qxzghoxhent,hejhburjhejshuhijutngbhptnyj,hmsxmmjqhenphynooyjheugqphxg
oejhpmxgbjhugqhfenss mjq,htulngbhp fehuhw jjshynooyjhfxgojgojqhpx gq
znoehenphynmp,hoeuohLnoochugqhoejhg spjhzjsjhgxohuyxgjhnghoejns
uqtnsuonxgkhYjrng,hoxx,hzuphp smsnpjqhugqhqjynbeojqk

Oejhiuichzuphouljghx ohxahoejhiuoe,hqsjgfejqhznoehzuojs,hzsummjqhng
oxzjyp,hqsnjq,hugqhuaojshuhmnjsfngbhpfsjut,heugqjqhoxhenphtxoejsk

“Zjyy,hNhuthbyuqhcx husjhijbnggngbhoxhyxrjhent,”hpunqhLnoochoxhejs
e piugq,hzejghpejheuqhpjooyjqhejspjyahfxtaxsouiychnghejsh p uyhmyufj,
znoehoejhiuichuohejshisjupokh“Nhuthpxhbyuq!hNoheuqhijb ghoxhqnposjpp
tjkhCx hpunqhcx heuqhgxhajjyngbhaxshentk”

“Gx;hqnqhNhpuchoeuo?hNhxgychpunqhNhzuphqnpummxngojqk”

“Zeuo!hqnpummxngojqhnghent?”

“Gxohqnpummxngojqhnghent,hi ohnghtchxzghajjyngb;hNheuqhjvmjfojqhtxsjkhN
euqhjvmjfojqhuhs pehxahgjzhqjynbeoa yhjtxonxghoxhfxtjhuphuhp smsnpjk
Ugqhoejghngpojuqhxahoeuo—qnpb po,hmnockkkk”

Pejhynpojgjqhuoojgonrjyc,hyxxlngbhuohenthxrjshoejhiuic,hzenyjhpejhm o
iuflhxghejshpyjgqjshangbjsphoejhsngbphpejheuqhouljghxaahzenyjhbnrngb
Tnocuhenphiuoek

“Ugqhtxpohxahuyy,huohoejsjhijngbhaushtxsjhummsjejgpnxghugqhmnochoeug
myjup sjkhOxquc,huaojshoeuohasnbeohq sngbhoejhpoxst,hNh gqjspougqhexzhN
yxrjhentk”

Lnooc’phptnyjhzuphsuqnugok

“Zjsjhcx hrjscht fehasnbeojgjq?”hpejhpunqkh“PxhzuphNhoxx,hi ohNhajjyhno
txsjhgxzhoeuohno’phxrjskhN’thbxngbhoxhyxxlhuohoejhxulkhExzhgnfj
Luourupxrhnp!hUgqhzeuohuheummchquchzj’rjheuqhuyoxbjoejskhUgqhcx ’sjhpx
gnfjhznoehPjsbjchNrugxrnofe,hzejghcx hfusjhoxhijkkkkhZjyy,hbxhiuflhox
oejtkhNo’phuyzucphpxhexohugqhpojutchejsjhuaojshoejhiuoek”


Feumojsh19

Bxngbhx ohxahoejhg spjschugqhijngbhubunghuyxgj,hYjrnghzjgohiuflhuohxgfj
oxhoejhoex beo,hnghzenfehoejsjhzuphpxtjoengbhgxohfyjusk

Ngpojuqhxahbxngbhngoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxt,hzejsjhejhejusqhrxnfjp,hej
poxmmjqhxghoejhojssufj,hugqhyjugngbhenphjyixzphxghoejhmusumjo,hejhbudjq
 mhuohoejhplck

Nohzuphw nojhquslhgxz,hugqhnghoejhpx oe,hzejsjhejhzuphyxxlngb,hoejsj
zjsjhgxhfyx qpkhOejhpoxstheuqhqsnaojqhxghoxhoejhxmmxpnojhpnqjhxahoej
plc,hugqhoejsjhzjsjhayupejphxahynbeogngbhugqhqnpougohoe gqjshasxthoeuo
w usojskhYjrnghynpojgjqhoxhoejhtxgxoxgx phqsnmhasxthoejhyntjhosjjphng
oejhbusqjg,hugqhyxxljqhuohoejhosnugbyjhxahpousphejhlgjzhpxhzjyy,hugq
oejhTnylchZuchznoehnophisugfejphoeuohsughoesx behnophtnqpokhUohjufe
ayupehxahynbeogngbhoejhTnylchZuc,hugqhjrjghoejhisnbeohpousp,hrugnpejq,
i ohuphpxxghuphoejhynbeogngbhqnjqhuzuc,hoejchsjummjusjqhnghoejnshmyufjp
uphoex behpxtjheugqheuqhay gbhoejthiuflhznoehfusja yhuntk

“Zjyy,hzeuohnphnohmjsmyjvjphtj?”hYjrnghpunqhoxhentpjya,hajjyngb
ijaxsjeugqhoeuohoejhpxy onxghxahenphqnaanf yonjphzuphsjuqchnghenphpx y,
oex behejhqnqhgxohlgxzhnohcjokh“Cjp,hoejhxgjh gtnpouluiyj,
ngfxgojpouiyjhtugnajpouonxghxahoejhQnrngnochnphoejhyuzhxahsnbeohugq
zsxgb,hzenfeheuphfxtjhngoxhoejhzxsyqhichsjrjyuonxg,hugqhzenfehNhajjyhng
tcpjya,hugqhnghoejhsjfxbgnonxghxahzenfe—Nhqxg’ohtuljhtcpjya,hi o
zejoejshNhznyyhxshgxo—Nhuthtuqjhxgjhznoehxoejshtjghnghxgjhixqchxa
ijynjrjsp,hzenfehnphfuyyjqhoejhfe sfekhZjyy,hi ohoejh.jzp,hoej
Txeuttjqugp,hoejhFxga fnugp,hoejhI qqenpop—zeuohxahoejt?”hejhm ohox
entpjyahoejhw jponxghejheuqhajusjqhoxhaufjkh“Fughoejpjhe gqsjqphxa
tnyynxgphxahtjghijhqjmsnrjqhxahoeuohenbejpohiyjppngbhznoex ohzenfehynaj
euphgxhtjugngb?”hEjhmxgqjsjqhuhtxtjgo,hi ohnttjqnuojychfxssjfojq
entpjyakh“I ohzeuohuthNhw jponxgngb?”hejhpunqhoxhentpjyakh“Nhut
w jponxgngbhoejhsjyuonxghoxhQnrngnochxahuyyhoejhqnaajsjgohsjynbnxgphxa
uyyhtuglngqkhNhuthw jponxgngbhoejh gnrjspuyhtugnajpouonxghxahBxqhoxhuyy
oejhzxsyqhznoehuyyhoexpjhtnpochiy spkhZeuohuthNhuix o?hOxhtj
ngqnrnq uyyc,hoxhtchejusoheuphijjghsjrjuyjqhuhlgxzyjqbjhijcxgqhuyy
qx io,hugqh guoounguiyjhichsjupxg,hugqhejsjhNhuthxiponguojychoscngbhox
jvmsjpphoeuohlgxzyjqbjhnghsjupxghugqhzxsqpk

“Qxg’ohNhlgxzhoeuohoejhpousphqxg’ohtxrj?”hejhupljqhentpjya,hbudngbhuo
oejhisnbeohmyugjohzenfeheuqhpenaojqhnophmxpnonxgh mhoxhoejhoxmtxpohoznb
xahoejhinsfe-osjjkh“I ohyxxlngbhuohoejhtxrjtjgophxahoejhpousp,hNhfug’o
mnfo sjhoxhtcpjyahoejhsxouonxghxahoejhjusoe,hugqhN’thsnbeohnghpucngb
oeuohoejhpousphtxrjk

“Ugqhfx yqhoejhuposxgxtjspheurjh gqjspoxxqhugqhfuyf yuojqhugcoengb,hna
oejcheuqhouljghngoxhuffx gohuyyhoejhfxtmynfuojqhugqhrusnjqhtxonxgphxa
oejhjusoe?hUyyhoejhtusrjyx phfxgfy pnxgphoejcheurjhsjufejqhuix ohoej
qnpougfjp,hzjnbeop,htxrjtjgop,hugqhqjayjfonxgphxahoejhejurjgychixqnjp
usjhxgychax gqjqhxghoejhummusjgohtxonxgphxahoejhejurjgychixqnjphuix ohu
pouonxguschjusoe,hxghoeuohrjschtxonxghNhpjjhijaxsjhtjhgxz,hzenfeheup
ijjghpxhaxshtnyynxgphxahtjghq sngbhyxgbhubjp,hugqhzuphugqhznyyhij
uyzucphuynlj,hugqhfughuyzucphijhos pojqkhUgqh. pohuphoejhfxgfy pnxgphxa
oejhuposxgxtjsphzx yqheurjhijjghrunghugqh gfjsounghnahgxohax gqjqhxg
xipjsruonxgphxahoejhpjjghejurjgp,hnghsjyuonxghoxhuhpngbyjhtjsnqnughugq
uhpngbyjhexsndxg,hpxhzx yqhtchfxgfy pnxgphijhrunghugqh gfjsounghnahgxo
ax gqjqhxghoeuohfxgfjmonxghxahsnbeo,hzenfeheuphijjghugqhznyyhijhuyzucp
uynljhaxshuyyhtjg,hzenfeheuphijjghsjrjuyjqhoxhtjhuphuhFesnponug,hugq
zenfehfughuyzucphijhos pojqhnghtchpx ykhOejhw jponxghxahxoejshsjynbnxgp
ugqhoejnshsjyuonxgphoxhQnrngnochNheurjhgxhsnbeohoxhqjfnqj,hugqhgx
mxppninynochxahqjfnqngbk”

“Xe,hcx heurjg’ohbxgjhnghoejg?”hejhejusqhLnooc’phrxnfjhuyyhuohxgfj,hup
pejhfutjhichoejhputjhzuchoxhoejhqsuzngb-sxxtk

“Zeuohnphno?hcx ’sjhgxohzxssnjqhuix ohugcoengb?”hpejhpunq,hyxxlngb
ngojgoychuohenphaufjhnghoejhpousynbeok

I ohpejhfx yqhgxoheurjhpjjghenphaufjhnahuhayupehxahynbeogngbheuqhgxo
enqqjghoejhpousphugqhsjrjuyjqhnokhNghoeuohayupehpejhpuzhenphaufj
qnpongfoyc,hugqhpjjngbhenthfuythugqheummc,hpejhptnyjqhuohentk

“Pejh gqjspougqp,”hejhoex beo;h“pejhlgxzphzeuohN’thoenglngbhuix ok
PeuyyhNhojyyhejshxshgxo?hCjp,hN’yyhojyyhejsk”hI ohuohoejhtxtjgohejhzup
uix ohoxhpmjul,hpejhijbughpmjulngbk

“Lxpocu!hqxhpxtjoengbhaxshtj,”hpejhpunq;h“bxhngoxhoejhfxsgjshsxxthugq
pjjhnahoejc’rjhtuqjhnohuyyhsnbeohaxshPjsbjchNrugxrnofekhNhfug’ohrjsc
zjyykhPjjhnahoejc’rjhm ohoejhgjzhzupehpougqhnghnok”

“Rjschzjyy,hN’yyhbxhqnsjfoyc,”hpunqhYjrng,hpougqngbh mhugqhlnppngbhejsk

“Gx,hN’qhijoojshgxohpmjulhxahno,”hejhoex beo,hzejghpejheuqhbxgjhng
ijaxsjhentkh“Nohnphuhpjfsjohaxshtjhuyxgj,hxahrnouyhntmxsougfjhaxshtj,
ugqhgxohoxhijhm ohngoxhzxsqpk

“Oenphgjzhajjyngbheuphgxohfeugbjqhtj,heuphgxohtuqjhtjheummchugq
jgynbeojgjqhuyyhxahuhp qqjg,huphNheuqhqsjutjq,h. pohynljhoejhajjyngb
axshtchfenyqkhOejsjhzuphgxhp smsnpjhnghoenphjnoejskhAunoe—xshgxo
aunoe—Nhqxg’ohlgxzhzeuohnohnp—i ohoenphajjyngbheuphfxtjh. pohup
ntmjsfjmoniychoesx behp aajsngb,hugqheuphouljghansthsxxohnghtchpx yk

“Nhpeuyyhbxhxghnghoejhputjhzuc,hyxpngbhtchojtmjshznoehNrughoej
fxufetug,hauyyngbhngoxhugbschqnpf ppnxgp,hjvmsjppngbhtchxmngnxgp
oufoyjppyc;hoejsjhznyyhijhponyyhoejhputjhzuyyhijozjjghoejhexychxa
exynjphxahtchpx yhugqhxoejshmjxmyj,hjrjghtchznaj;hNhpeuyyhponyyhbxhxg
pfxyqngbhejshaxshtchxzghojssxs,hugqhijngbhsjtxspja yhaxshno;hNhpeuyy
ponyyhijhuph guiyjhoxh gqjspougqhznoehtchsjupxghzechNhmsuc,hugqhNhpeuyy
ponyyhbxhxghmsucngb;hi ohtchynajhgxz,htchzexyjhynajhumusohasxthugcoengb
oeuohfugheummjghoxhtj,hjrjschtng ojhxahnohnphgxhtxsjhtjugngbyjpp,huphno
zuphijaxsj,hi ohnoheuphoejhmxpnonrjhtjugngbhxahbxxqgjpp,hzenfehNheurj
oejhmxzjshoxhm ohngoxhnok”




JgqhxahOejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhJojvohxahUgguhLusjgnguhichYjxhOxypoxc


***hJGQhXAhOENPhMSX.JFOhB OJGIJSBhJIXXLhUGGUhLUSJGNGUh***

*****hOenphanyjhpex yqhijhgutjqh1399-0kovohxsh1399-0kdnmh*****hOenphugqhuyy
uppxfnuojqhanyjphxahrusnx phaxstuophznyyhijhax gqhng:
eoom://zzzkb ojgijsbkxsb/1/3/9/1399/

Msxq fjqhichQurnqhIsuggug,hUgqsjzhPychugqhQurnqhZnqbjsk

 mquojqhjqnonxgphznyyhsjmyufjhoejhmsjrnx phxgj--oejhxyqhjqnonxgphznyy
ijhsjgutjqk

Fsjuongbhoejhzxslphasxthmsngohjqnonxgphgxohmsxojfojqhich kPkhfxmcsnbeo
yuzhtjugphoeuohgxhxgjhxzgphuh gnojqhPouojphfxmcsnbeohnghoejpjhzxslp,
pxhoejhAx gquonxgh(ugqhcx !)hfughfxmchugqhqnposni ojhnohnghoejh gnojq
Pouojphznoex ohmjstnppnxghugqhznoex ohmucngbhfxmcsnbeo
sxcuyonjpkhPmjfnuyhs yjp,hpjohaxsoehnghoejhBjgjsuyhOjstphxah pjhmuso
xahoenphynfjgpj,hummychoxhfxmcngbhugqhqnposni ongbhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslphoxhmsxojfohoejhMSX.JFOhB OJGIJSB-ot
fxgfjmohugqhosuqjtuslkhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhnphuhsjbnpojsjqhosuqjtusl,
ugqhtuchgxohijh pjqhnahcx hfeusbjhaxshoejhjIxxlp,h gyjpphcx hsjfjnrj
pmjfnanfhmjstnppnxgkhNahcx hqxhgxohfeusbjhugcoengbhaxshfxmnjphxahoenp
jIxxl,hfxtmycngbhznoehoejhs yjphnphrjschjupckhCx htuch pjhoenphjIxxl
axshgjusychugchm smxpjhp fehuphfsjuonxghxahqjsnruonrjhzxslp,hsjmxsop,
mjsaxstugfjphugqhsjpjusfekhOejchtuchijhtxqnanjqhugqhmsngojqhugqhbnrjg
uzuc--cx htuchqxhmsufonfuyychUGCOENGBhnghoejh gnojqhPouojphznoehjIxxlp
gxohmsxojfojqhich kPkhfxmcsnbeohyuzkhSjqnposni onxghnphp i.jfohoxhoej
osuqjtuslhynfjgpj,hjpmjfnuyychfxttjsfnuyhsjqnposni onxgk

POUSO:hA YYhYNFJGPJ

OEJhA YYhMSX.JFOhB OJGIJSBhYNFJGPJ
MYJUPJhSJUQhOENPhIJAXSJhCX hQNPOSNI OJhXSh PJhOENPhZXSL

OxhmsxojfohoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othtnppnxghxahmsxtxongbhoejhasjj
qnposni onxghxahjyjfosxgnfhzxslp,hich pngbhxshqnposni ongbhoenphzxsl
(xshugchxoejshzxslhuppxfnuojqhnghugchzuchznoehoejhmesupjh"Msx.jfo
B ojgijsb"),hcx hubsjjhoxhfxtmychznoehuyyhoejhojstphxahoejhA yy
Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjhurunyuiyjhznoehoenphanyjhxshxgyngjhuo
zzzkb ojgijsbkxsb/ynfjgpjk

Pjfonxgh1khBjgjsuyhOjstphxah pjhugqhSjqnposni ongbhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslp

1kUkhIchsjuqngbhxsh pngbhugchmusohxahoenphMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
jyjfosxgnfhzxsl,hcx hngqnfuojhoeuohcx heurjhsjuq,h gqjspougq,hubsjjhox
ugqhuffjmohuyyhoejhojstphxahoenphynfjgpjhugqhngojyyjfo uyhmsxmjsoc
(osuqjtusl/fxmcsnbeo)hubsjjtjgokhNahcx hqxhgxohubsjjhoxhuinqjhichuyy
oejhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgo,hcx ht pohfjupjh pngbhugqhsjo sghxs
qjposxchuyyhfxmnjphxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslphnghcx s
mxppjppnxgkhNahcx hmunqhuhajjhaxshxioungngbhuhfxmchxahxshuffjpphoxhu
Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslhugqhcx hqxhgxohubsjjhoxhijhix gq
ichoejhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgo,hcx htuchxiounghuhsja gqhasxthoej
mjspxghxshjgonochoxhzexthcx hmunqhoejhajjhuphpjohaxsoehnghmusubsume
1kJk8k

1kIkh"Msx.jfohB ojgijsb"hnphuhsjbnpojsjqhosuqjtuslkhNohtuchxgychij
 pjqhxghxshuppxfnuojqhnghugchzuchznoehughjyjfosxgnfhzxslhichmjxmyjhzex
ubsjjhoxhijhix gqhichoejhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgokhOejsjhusjhuhajz
oengbphoeuohcx hfughqxhznoehtxpohMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslp
jrjghznoex ohfxtmycngbhznoehoejha yyhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgokhPjj
musubsumeh1kFhijyxzkhOejsjhusjhuhyxohxahoengbphcx hfughqxhznoehMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslphnahcx haxyyxzhoejhojstphxahoenp
ubsjjtjgohugqhejymhmsjpjsrjhasjjha o sjhuffjpphoxhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
jyjfosxgnfhzxslpkhPjjhmusubsumeh1kJhijyxzk

1kFkhOejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxgh("oej
Ax gquonxg"hxshMBYUA),hxzgphuhfxtmnyuonxghfxmcsnbeohnghoejhfxyyjfonxg
xahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslpkhGjusychuyyhoejhngqnrnq uy
zxslphnghoejhfxyyjfonxghusjhnghoejhm iynfhqxtunghnghoejh gnojq
PouojpkhNahughngqnrnq uyhzxslhnph gmsxojfojqhichfxmcsnbeohyuzhnghoej
 gnojqhPouojphugqhcx husjhyxfuojqhnghoejh gnojqhPouojp,hzjhqxhgxo
fyunthuhsnbeohoxhmsjrjgohcx hasxthfxmcngb,hqnposni ongb,hmjsaxstngb,
qnpmyucngbhxshfsjuongbhqjsnruonrjhzxslphiupjqhxghoejhzxslhuphyxgbhup
uyyhsjajsjgfjphoxhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhusjhsjtxrjqkhXahfx spj,hzjhexmj
oeuohcx hznyyhp mmxsohoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othtnppnxghxahmsxtxongb
asjjhuffjpphoxhjyjfosxgnfhzxslphichasjjychpeusngbhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
zxslphnghfxtmynugfjhznoehoejhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgohaxshljjmngbhoej
Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othgutjhuppxfnuojqhznoehoejhzxslkhCx hfughjupnyc
fxtmychznoehoejhojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgohichljjmngbhoenphzxslhnghoej
putjhaxstuohznoehnophuooufejqha yyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjhzejg
cx hpeusjhnohznoex ohfeusbjhznoehxoejspk

1kQkhOejhfxmcsnbeohyuzphxahoejhmyufjhzejsjhcx husjhyxfuojqhuypxhbxrjsg
zeuohcx hfughqxhznoehoenphzxslkhFxmcsnbeohyuzphnghtxpohfx gosnjphusj
nghuhfxgpougohpouojhxahfeugbjkhNahcx husjhx opnqjhoejh gnojqhPouojp,
fejflhoejhyuzphxahcx shfx goschnghuqqnonxghoxhoejhojstphxahoenp
ubsjjtjgohijaxsjhqxzgyxuqngb,hfxmcngb,hqnpmyucngb,hmjsaxstngb,
qnposni ongbhxshfsjuongbhqjsnruonrjhzxslphiupjqhxghoenphzxslhxshugc
xoejshMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslkhOejhAx gquonxghtuljphgx
sjmsjpjgouonxgphfxgfjsgngbhoejhfxmcsnbeohpouo phxahugchzxslhnghugc
fx goschx opnqjhoejh gnojqhPouojpk

1kJkh gyjpphcx heurjhsjtxrjqhuyyhsjajsjgfjphoxhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb:

1kJk1khOejhaxyyxzngbhpjgojgfj,hznoehufonrjhynglphox,hxshxoejs
nttjqnuojhuffjpphox,hoejha yyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjht pohummjus
msxtngjgoychzejgjrjshugchfxmchxahuhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslh(ugchzxsl
xghzenfehoejhmesupjh"Msx.jfohB ojgijsb"hummjusp,hxshznoehzenfehoej
mesupjh"Msx.jfohB ojgijsb"hnphuppxfnuojq)hnphuffjppjq,hqnpmyucjq,
mjsaxstjq,hrnjzjq,hfxmnjqhxshqnposni ojq:

hhOenphjIxxlhnphaxshoejh pjhxahugcxgjhugczejsjhnghoejh gnojqhPouojphugq
hhtxpohxoejshmusophxahoejhzxsyqhuohgxhfxpohugqhznoehuytxpohgx
hhsjposnfonxgphzeuopxjrjskhCx htuchfxmchno,hbnrjhnohuzuchxshsj- pjhno
hh gqjshoejhojstphxahoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnfjgpjhngfy qjqhznoehoenp
hhjIxxlhxshxgyngjhuohzzzkb ojgijsbkxsbkhNahcx husjhgxohyxfuojqhnghoej
hh gnojqhPouojp,hcx 'yyheurjhoxhfejflhoejhyuzphxahoejhfx goschzejsjhcx 
hhusjhyxfuojqhijaxsjh pngbhoenphjixxlk

1kJk2khNahughngqnrnq uyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslhnp
qjsnrjqhasxthojvophgxohmsxojfojqhich kPkhfxmcsnbeohyuzh(qxjphgxo
fxgounghuhgxonfjhngqnfuongbhoeuohnohnphmxpojqhznoehmjstnppnxghxahoej
fxmcsnbeohexyqjs),hoejhzxslhfughijhfxmnjqhugqhqnposni ojqhoxhugcxgjhng
oejh gnojqhPouojphznoex ohmucngbhugchajjphxshfeusbjpkhNahcx husj
sjqnposni ongbhxshmsxrnqngbhuffjpphoxhuhzxslhznoehoejhmesupjh"Msx.jfo
B ojgijsb"huppxfnuojqhznoehxshummjusngbhxghoejhzxsl,hcx ht pohfxtmyc
jnoejshznoehoejhsjw nsjtjgophxahmusubsumeph1kJk1hoesx beh1kJk7hxs
xiounghmjstnppnxghaxshoejh pjhxahoejhzxslhugqhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
osuqjtuslhuphpjohaxsoehnghmusubsumeph1kJk8hxsh1kJk9k

1kJk3khNahughngqnrnq uyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslhnphmxpojq
znoehoejhmjstnppnxghxahoejhfxmcsnbeohexyqjs,hcx sh pjhugqhqnposni onxg
t pohfxtmychznoehixoehmusubsumeph1kJk1hoesx beh1kJk7hugqhugc
uqqnonxguyhojstphntmxpjqhichoejhfxmcsnbeohexyqjskhUqqnonxguyhojstp
znyyhijhyngljqhoxhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjhaxshuyyhzxslp
mxpojqhznoehoejhmjstnppnxghxahoejhfxmcsnbeohexyqjshax gqhuohoej
ijbnggngbhxahoenphzxslk

1kJk4khQxhgxoh gynglhxshqjoufehxshsjtxrjhoejha yyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
Ynfjgpjhojstphasxthoenphzxsl,hxshugchanyjphfxgoungngbhuhmusohxahoenp
zxslhxshugchxoejshzxslhuppxfnuojqhznoehMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-otk

1kJk5khQxhgxohfxmc,hqnpmyuc,hmjsaxst,hqnposni ojhxshsjqnposni ojhoenp
jyjfosxgnfhzxsl,hxshugchmusohxahoenphjyjfosxgnfhzxsl,hznoex o
msxtngjgoychqnpmyucngbhoejhpjgojgfjhpjohaxsoehnghmusubsumeh1kJk1hznoe
ufonrjhynglphxshnttjqnuojhuffjpphoxhoejha yyhojstphxahoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjk

1kJk6khCx htuchfxgrjsohoxhugqhqnposni ojhoenphzxslhnghugchingusc,
fxtmsjppjq,htusljqh m,hgxgmsxmsnjouschxshmsxmsnjouschaxst,hngfy qngb
ugchzxsqhmsxfjppngbhxshecmjsojvohaxstkhExzjrjs,hnahcx hmsxrnqjhuffjpp
oxhxshqnposni ojhfxmnjphxahuhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslhnghuhaxstuo
xoejshoeugh"MyunghRugnyyuhUPFNN"hxshxoejshaxstuoh pjqhnghoejhxaanfnuy
rjspnxghmxpojqhxghoejhxaanfnuyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzjihpnoj
(zzzkb ojgijsbkxsb),hcx ht po,huohgxhuqqnonxguyhfxpo,hajjhxshjvmjgpj
oxhoejh pjs,hmsxrnqjhuhfxmc,huhtjugphxahjvmxsongbhuhfxmc,hxshuhtjugp
xahxioungngbhuhfxmch mxghsjw jpo,hxahoejhzxslhnghnophxsnbnguyh"Myung
RugnyyuhUPFNN"hxshxoejshaxstkhUgchuyojsguojhaxstuoht pohngfy qjhoej
a yyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othYnfjgpjhuphpmjfnanjqhnghmusubsumeh1kJk1k

1kJk7khQxhgxohfeusbjhuhajjhaxshuffjpphox,hrnjzngb,hqnpmyucngb,
mjsaxstngb,hfxmcngbhxshqnposni ongbhugchMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslp
 gyjpphcx hfxtmychznoehmusubsumeh1kJk8hxsh1kJk9k

1kJk8khCx htuchfeusbjhuhsjupxguiyjhajjhaxshfxmnjphxahxshmsxrnqngb
uffjpphoxhxshqnposni ongbhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslp
msxrnqjqhoeuo

*hCx hmuchuhsxcuyochajjhxah20%hxahoejhbsxpphmsxanophcx hqjsnrjhasxt
hhoejh pjhxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslphfuyf yuojqh pngbhoejhtjoexq
hhcx huysjuqch pjhoxhfuyf yuojhcx shummynfuiyjhouvjpkhOejhajjhnphxzjq
hhoxhoejhxzgjshxahoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othosuqjtusl,hi ohejheup
hhubsjjqhoxhqxguojhsxcuyonjph gqjshoenphmusubsumehoxhoejhMsx.jfo
hhB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxgkhSxcuyochmuctjgopht pohijhmunq
hhznoengh60hqucphaxyyxzngbhjufehquojhxghzenfehcx hmsjmusjh(xshusj
hhyjbuyychsjw nsjqhoxhmsjmusj)hcx shmjsnxqnfhouvhsjo sgpkhSxcuyoc
hhmuctjgophpex yqhijhfyjusychtusljqhuphp fehugqhpjgohoxhoejhMsx.jfo
hhB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxghuohoejhuqqsjpphpmjfnanjqhng
hhPjfonxgh4,h"Ngaxstuonxghuix ohqxguonxgphoxhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb
hhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxgk"

*hCx hmsxrnqjhuha yyhsja gqhxahugchtxgjchmunqhichuh pjshzexhgxonanjp
hhcx hnghzsnongbh(xshichj-tuny)hznoengh30hqucphxahsjfjnmohoeuohp/ej
hhqxjphgxohubsjjhoxhoejhojstphxahoejha yyhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
hhYnfjgpjkhCx ht pohsjw nsjhp fehuh pjshoxhsjo sghxshqjposxchuyy
hhfxmnjphxahoejhzxslphmxppjppjqhnghuhmecpnfuyhtjqn thugqhqnpfxgong j
hhuyyh pjhxahugqhuyyhuffjpphoxhxoejshfxmnjphxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
hhzxslpk

*hCx hmsxrnqj,hnghuffxsqugfjhznoehmusubsumeh1kAk3,huha yyhsja gqhxa
hhugchtxgjchmunqhaxshuhzxslhxshuhsjmyufjtjgohfxmc,hnahuhqjajfohnghoej
hhjyjfosxgnfhzxslhnphqnpfxrjsjqhugqhsjmxsojqhoxhcx hznoengh90hqucphxa
hhsjfjnmohxahoejhzxslk

*hCx hfxtmychznoehuyyhxoejshojstphxahoenphubsjjtjgohaxshasjj
hhqnposni onxghxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxslpk

1kJk9khNahcx hznpehoxhfeusbjhuhajjhxshqnposni ojhuhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslhxshbsx mhxahzxslphxghqnaajsjgohojstphoeug
usjhpjohaxsoehnghoenphubsjjtjgo,hcx ht pohxiounghmjstnppnxghnghzsnongb
asxthixoehoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxghugqhOej
Msx.jfohB ojgijsbhOsuqjtuslhYYF,hoejhxzgjshxahoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
osuqjtuslkhFxgoufohoejhAx gquonxghuphpjohaxsoehnghPjfonxgh3hijyxzk

1kAk

1kAk1khMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhrxy gojjsphugqhjtmyxcjjphjvmjgqhfxgpnqjsuiyj
jaaxsohoxhnqjgonac,hqxhfxmcsnbeohsjpjusfehxg,hosugpfsnijhugqhmsxxasjuq
zxslphgxohmsxojfojqhich kPkhfxmcsnbeohyuzhnghfsjuongbhoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othfxyyjfonxgkhQjpmnojhoejpjhjaaxsop,hMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
jyjfosxgnfhzxslp,hugqhoejhtjqn thxghzenfehoejchtuchijhpoxsjq,htuc
fxgoungh"Qjajfop,"hp fehup,hi ohgxohyntnojqhox,hngfxtmyjoj,hnguff suoj
xshfxss mohquou,hosugpfsnmonxghjssxsp,huhfxmcsnbeohxshxoejs
ngojyyjfo uyhmsxmjsochngasngbjtjgo,huhqjajfonrjhxshqutubjqhqnplhxs
xoejshtjqn t,huhfxtm ojshrns p,hxshfxtm ojshfxqjphoeuohqutubjhxs
fuggxohijhsjuqhichcx shjw nmtjgok

1kAk2khYNTNOJQhZUSSUGOC,hQNPFYUNTJShXAhQUTUBJPh-hJvfjmohaxshoejh"Snbeo
xahSjmyufjtjgohxshSja gq"hqjpfsnijqhnghmusubsumeh1kAk3,hoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxg,hoejhxzgjshxahoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othosuqjtusl,hugqhugchxoejshmusochqnposni ongbhuhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslh gqjshoenphubsjjtjgo,hqnpfyunthuyy
ynuinynochoxhcx haxshqutubjp,hfxpophugqhjvmjgpjp,hngfy qngbhyjbuy
ajjpkhCX hUBSJJhOEUOhCX hEURJhGXhSJTJQNJPhAXShGJBYNBJGFJ,hPOSNFO
YNUINYNOC,hISJUFEhXAhZUSSUGOChXShISJUFEhXAhFXGOSUFOhJVFJMOhOEXPJ
MSXRNQJQhNGhMUSUBSUMEh1kAk3khCX hUBSJJhOEUOhOEJhAX GQUONXG,hOEJ
OSUQJTUSLhXZGJS,hUGQhUGChQNPOSNI OXSh GQJShOENPhUBSJJTJGOhZNYYhGXOhIJ
YNUIYJhOXhCX hAXShUFO UY,hQNSJFO,hNGQNSJFO,hFXGPJW JGONUY,hM GNONRJhXS
NGFNQJGOUYhQUTUBJPhJRJGhNAhCX hBNRJhGXONFJhXAhOEJhMXPPNINYNOChXAhP FE
QUTUBJk

1kAk3khYNTNOJQhSNBEOhXAhSJMYUFJTJGOhXShSJA GQh-hNahcx hqnpfxrjshu
qjajfohnghoenphjyjfosxgnfhzxslhznoengh90hqucphxahsjfjnrngbhno,hcx hfug
sjfjnrjhuhsja gqhxahoejhtxgjch(nahugc)hcx hmunqhaxshnohichpjgqngbhu
zsnoojghjvmyuguonxghoxhoejhmjspxghcx hsjfjnrjqhoejhzxslhasxtkhNahcx 
sjfjnrjqhoejhzxslhxghuhmecpnfuyhtjqn t,hcx ht pohsjo sghoejhtjqn t
znoehcx shzsnoojghjvmyuguonxgkhOejhmjspxghxshjgonochoeuohmsxrnqjqhcx 
znoehoejhqjajfonrjhzxslhtuchjyjfohoxhmsxrnqjhuhsjmyufjtjgohfxmchng
ynj hxahuhsja gqkhNahcx hsjfjnrjqhoejhzxslhjyjfosxgnfuyyc,hoejhmjspxg
xshjgonochmsxrnqngbhnohoxhcx htuchfexxpjhoxhbnrjhcx huhpjfxgq
xmmxso gnochoxhsjfjnrjhoejhzxslhjyjfosxgnfuyychnghynj hxahuhsja gqkhNa
oejhpjfxgqhfxmchnphuypxhqjajfonrj,hcx htuchqjtugqhuhsja gqhnghzsnongb
znoex oha soejshxmmxso gnonjphoxhanvhoejhmsxiyjtk

1kAk4khJvfjmohaxshoejhyntnojqhsnbeohxahsjmyufjtjgohxshsja gqhpjohaxsoe
nghmusubsumeh1kAk3,hoenphzxslhnphmsxrnqjqhoxhcx h'UP-NP',hZNOEhGX
XOEJShZUSSUGONJPhXAhUGChLNGQ,hJVMSJPPhXShNTMYNJQ,hNGFY QNGBhI OhGXO
YNTNOJQhOXhZUSSUGONJPhXAhTJSFEUGOUINYNOChXShANOGJPPhAXShUGChM SMXPJk

1kAk5khPxtjhpouojphqxhgxohuyyxzhqnpfyuntjsphxahfjsounghntmynjq
zussugonjphxshoejhjvfy pnxghxshyntnouonxghxahfjsounghocmjphxa
qutubjpkhNahugchqnpfyuntjshxshyntnouonxghpjohaxsoehnghoenphubsjjtjgo
rnxyuojphoejhyuzhxahoejhpouojhummynfuiyjhoxhoenphubsjjtjgo,hoej
ubsjjtjgohpeuyyhijhngojsmsjojqhoxhtuljhoejhtuvnt thqnpfyuntjshxs
yntnouonxghmjstnoojqhichoejhummynfuiyjhpouojhyuzkhOejhngruynqnochxs
 gjgaxsfjuinynochxahugchmsxrnpnxghxahoenphubsjjtjgohpeuyyhgxohrxnqhoej
sjtungngbhmsxrnpnxgpk

1kAk6khNGQJTGNOCh-hCx hubsjjhoxhngqjtgnachugqhexyqhoejhAx gquonxg,hoej
osuqjtuslhxzgjs,hugchubjgohxshjtmyxcjjhxahoejhAx gquonxg,hugcxgj
msxrnqngbhfxmnjphxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslphng
uffxsqugfjhznoehoenphubsjjtjgo,hugqhugchrxy gojjsphuppxfnuojqhznoehoej
msxq fonxg,hmsxtxonxghugqhqnposni onxghxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot
jyjfosxgnfhzxslp,heustyjpphasxthuyyhynuinynoc,hfxpophugqhjvmjgpjp,
ngfy qngbhyjbuyhajjp,hoeuohusnpjhqnsjfoychxshngqnsjfoychasxthugchxa
oejhaxyyxzngbhzenfehcx hqxhxshfu pjhoxhxff s:h(u)hqnposni onxghxahoenp
xshugchMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxsl,h(i)huyojsuonxg,htxqnanfuonxg,hxs
uqqnonxgphxshqjyjonxgphoxhugchMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othzxsl,hugqh(f)hugc
Qjajfohcx hfu pjk

Pjfonxgh2khNgaxstuonxghuix ohoejhTnppnxghxahMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot

Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othnphpcgxgctx phznoehoejhasjjhqnposni onxghxa
jyjfosxgnfhzxslphnghaxstuophsjuquiyjhichoejhznqjpohrusnjochxa
fxtm ojsphngfy qngbhxipxyjoj,hxyq,htnqqyj-ubjqhugqhgjzhfxtm ojspkhNo
jvnpophijfu pjhxahoejhjaaxsophxahe gqsjqphxahrxy gojjsphugqhqxguonxgp
asxthmjxmyjhnghuyyhzuylphxahynajk

Rxy gojjsphugqhangugfnuyhp mmxsohoxhmsxrnqjhrxy gojjsphznoehoej
uppnpougfjhoejchgjjqhusjhfsnonfuyhoxhsjufengbhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot'p
bxuyphugqhjgp sngbhoeuohoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othfxyyjfonxghznyy
sjtunghasjjychurunyuiyjhaxshbjgjsuonxgphoxhfxtjkhNgh2001,hoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxghzuphfsjuojqhoxhmsxrnqjhuhpjf sj
ugqhmjstugjgoha o sjhaxshMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othugqha o sj
bjgjsuonxgpkhOxhyjusghtxsjhuix ohoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsusc
UsfenrjhAx gquonxghugqhexzhcx shjaaxsophugqhqxguonxgphfughejym,hpjj
Pjfonxgph3hugqh4hugqhoejhAx gquonxghngaxstuonxghmubjhuo
zzzkb ojgijsbkxsb



Pjfonxgh3khNgaxstuonxghuix ohoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxg

OejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxghnphuhgxghmsxano
501(f)(3)hjq fuonxguyhfxsmxsuonxghxsbugndjqh gqjshoejhyuzphxahoej
pouojhxahTnppnppnmmnhugqhbsugojqhouvhjvjtmohpouo phichoejhNgojsguy
Sjrjg jhPjsrnfjkhOejhAx gquonxg'phJNGhxshajqjsuyhouvhnqjgonanfuonxg
g tijshnph64-6221541khFxgosni onxgphoxhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsusc
UsfenrjhAx gquonxghusjhouvhqjq foniyjhoxhoejha yyhjvojgohmjstnoojqhic
 kPkhajqjsuyhyuzphugqhcx shpouoj'phyuzpk

OejhAx gquonxg'phmsngfnmuyhxaanfjhnphnghAunsiuglp,hUyuplu,hznoehoej
tunyngbhuqqsjpp:hMXhIxvh750175,hAunsiuglp,hULh99775,hi ohnop
rxy gojjsphugqhjtmyxcjjphusjhpfuoojsjqhoesx bex ohg tjsx p
yxfuonxgpkhNophi pngjpphxaanfjhnphyxfuojqhuoh809hGxsoeh1500hZjpo,hPuyo
YuljhFnoc,h Oh84116,h(801)h596-1887khJtunyhfxgoufohynglphugqh mhox
quojhfxgoufohngaxstuonxghfughijhax gqhuohoejhAx gquonxg'phzjihpnojhugq
xaanfnuyhmubjhuohzzzkb ojgijsbkxsb/fxgoufo

Axshuqqnonxguyhfxgoufohngaxstuonxg:

hhhhQskhBsjbxschIkhGjzic
hhhhFenjahJvjf onrjhugqhQnsjfoxs
hhhhbigjzic@mbyuakxsb

Pjfonxgh4khNgaxstuonxghuix ohQxguonxgphoxhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb
YnojsuschUsfenrjhAx gquonxg

Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othqjmjgqph mxghugqhfuggxohp srnrjhznoex ohznqj
pmsjuqhm iynfhp mmxsohugqhqxguonxgphoxhfusschx ohnophtnppnxghxa
ngfsjupngbhoejhg tijshxahm iynfhqxtunghugqhynfjgpjqhzxslphoeuohfughij
asjjychqnposni ojqhnghtufengjhsjuquiyjhaxsthuffjppniyjhichoejhznqjpo
ussuchxahjw nmtjgohngfy qngbhx oquojqhjw nmtjgokhTugchptuyyhqxguonxgp
($1hoxh$5,000)husjhmusonf yusychntmxsougohoxhtungoungngbhouvhjvjtmo
pouo phznoehoejhNSPk

OejhAx gquonxghnphfxttnoojqhoxhfxtmycngbhznoehoejhyuzphsjb yuongb
feusnonjphugqhfeusnouiyjhqxguonxgphnghuyyh50hpouojphxahoejh gnojq
PouojpkhFxtmynugfjhsjw nsjtjgophusjhgxoh gnaxsthugqhnohouljphu
fxgpnqjsuiyjhjaaxso,ht fehmumjszxslhugqhtugchajjphoxhtjjohugqhljjmh m
znoehoejpjhsjw nsjtjgopkhZjhqxhgxohpxynfnohqxguonxgphnghyxfuonxgp
zejsjhzjheurjhgxohsjfjnrjqhzsnoojghfxganstuonxghxahfxtmynugfjkhOxhPJGQ
QXGUONXGPhxshqjojstngjhoejhpouo phxahfxtmynugfjhaxshugchmusonf yus
pouojhrnpnohzzzkb ojgijsbkxsb/qxguoj

Zenyjhzjhfuggxohugqhqxhgxohpxynfnohfxgosni onxgphasxthpouojphzejsjhzj
eurjhgxohtjohoejhpxynfnouonxghsjw nsjtjgop,hzjhlgxzhxahgxhmsxeninonxg
ubungpohuffjmongbh gpxynfnojqhqxguonxgphasxthqxgxsphnghp fehpouojphzex
ummsxufeh phznoehxaajsphoxhqxguojk

Ngojsguonxguyhqxguonxgphusjhbsuoja yychuffjmojq,hi ohzjhfuggxohtulj
ugchpouojtjgophfxgfjsgngbhouvhosjuotjgohxahqxguonxgphsjfjnrjqhasxt
x opnqjhoejh gnojqhPouojpkh kPkhyuzphuyxgjhpzutmhx shptuyyhpouaak

MyjupjhfejflhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhZjihmubjphaxshf ssjgohqxguonxg
tjoexqphugqhuqqsjppjpkhQxguonxgphusjhuffjmojqhnghuhg tijshxahxoejs
zucphngfy qngbhfejflp,hxgyngjhmuctjgophugqhfsjqnohfusqhqxguonxgpkhOx
qxguoj,hmyjupjhrnpno:hzzzkb ojgijsbkxsb/qxguoj

Pjfonxgh5khBjgjsuyhNgaxstuonxghUix ohMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjyjfosxgnfhzxslpk

MsxajppxshTnfeujyhPkhEusohzuphoejhxsnbnguoxshxahoejhMsx.jfo
B ojgijsb-othfxgfjmohxahuhynisuschxahjyjfosxgnfhzxslphoeuohfx yqhij
asjjychpeusjqhznoehugcxgjkhAxshaxsochcjusp,hejhmsxq fjqhugq
qnposni ojqhMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjIxxlphznoehxgychuhyxxpjhgjozxslhxa
rxy gojjshp mmxsok

Msx.jfohB ojgijsb-othjIxxlphusjhxaojghfsjuojqhasxthpjrjsuyhmsngojq
jqnonxgp,huyyhxahzenfehusjhfxganstjqhuphgxohmsxojfojqhichfxmcsnbeohng
oejh kPkh gyjpphuhfxmcsnbeohgxonfjhnphngfy qjqkhOe p,hzjhqxhgxo
gjfjppusnychljjmhjIxxlphnghfxtmynugfjhznoehugchmusonf yushmumjs
jqnonxgk

Txpohmjxmyjhpousohuohx shZjihpnojhzenfeheuphoejhtunghMBhpjusfe
aufnynoc:hzzzkb ojgijsbkxsb

OenphZjihpnojhngfy qjphngaxstuonxghuix ohMsx.jfohB ojgijsb-ot,
ngfy qngbhexzhoxhtuljhqxguonxgphoxhoejhMsx.jfohB ojgijsbhYnojsusc
UsfenrjhAx gquonxg,hexzhoxhejymhmsxq fjhx shgjzhjIxxlp,hugqhexzhox
p ipfsnijhoxhx shjtunyhgjzpyjoojshoxhejushuix ohgjzhjIxxlpk



