GqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmPVrromramPxxb,mvtmZbypmB.kgpy

GqskmpVrromskmaremgqpm.kpmrambytrypmbytlqpepmbgmyrm rkgmbyumlsgq
bnxrkgmyrmepkges gsrykmlqbgkrpcpewmmTr.mxbtm rftmsg,mdscpmsgmblbtmre
ep-.kpmsgm.yupemgqpmgpexkmramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNs pykpmsy n.upu
lsgqmgqskmpVrromremrynsypmbgmlllwd.gpyvpedwred


Gsgnp:mPxxb

B.gqre:mZbypmB.kgpy

EpnpbkpmUbgp:mB.d.kg,m1994mm[Pgpjgm#158]
FrkgsydmUbgp:mZby.betm21,m2010
Nbkgm.fubgpu:mXbe qm10,m2018

Nbyd.bdp:mPydnskq

 qbeb gpemkpgmpy rusyd:m.GA-8

***mKGBEGmRAmGQSKmFERZP GmD.GPYVPEDmPVRROmPXXBm***




Feru. pumvtmBymByrytxr.kmCrn.ygppe





PXXB

VtmZbypmB.kgpy




CRN.XPmS



 QBFGPEmS


PxxbmLrruqr.kp,mqbyukrxp,m npcpe,mbyumes q,mlsgqmbm rxaregbvnpmqrxp
byumqbfftmuskfrksgsry,mkppxpumgrm.ysgpmkrxpmramgqpmvpkgmvnpkksydkmra
pjskgpy p;mbyumqbumnscpumypbentmglpygt-rypmtpbekmsymgqpmlrenumlsgqmcpet
nsggnpmgrmuskgepkkmremcpjmqpew

Kqpmlbkmgqpmtr.ydpkgmramgqpmglrmub.dqgpekmrambmxrkgmbaap gsrybgp,
syu.ndpygmabgqpe;mbyumqbu,msym rykph.py pmramqpemkskgpe'kmxbeesbdp,mvppy
xskgepkkmramqskmqr.kpmaerxmbmcpetmpbentmfpesruwmQpemxrgqpemqbumuspu
grrmnrydmbdrmaremqpemgrmqbcpmxrepmgqbymbymsyuskgsy gmepxpxveby pmra
qpem bepkkpk;mbyumqpemfnb pmqbumvppymk.ffnspumvtmbympj pnnpygmlrxbymbk
drcpeypkk,mlqrmqbumabnnpymnsggnpmkqregmrambmxrgqpemsymbaap gsryw

KsjgppymtpbekmqbumXskkmGbtnremvppymsymXewmLrruqr.kp'kmabxsnt,mnpkkmbkmb
drcpeypkkmgqbymbmaespyu,mcpetmaryumramvrgqmub.dqgpek,mv.gmfbegs .nbent
ramPxxbwmVpglppym_gqpx_msgmlbkmxrepmgqpmsygsxb tmramkskgpekwmPcpymvparep
XskkmGbtnremqbum pbkpumgrmqrnumgqpmyrxsybnmraas pmramdrcpeypkk,mgqp
xsnuypkkmramqpemgpxfpemqbumqbeuntmbnnrlpumqpemgrmsxfrkpmbytmepkgebsyg;
byumgqpmkqburlmramb.gqresgtmvpsydmyrlmnrydmfbkkpumblbt,mgqptmqbumvppy
nscsydmgrdpgqpembkmaespyumbyumaespyumcpetmx.g.bnntmbggb qpu,mbyumPxxb
ursydmz.kgmlqbgmkqpmnsopu;mqsdqntmpkgppxsydmXskkmGbtnre'kmz.udxpyg,mv.g
usep gpum qspantmvtmqpemrlyw

Gqpmepbnmpcsnk,msyuppu,mramPxxb'kmksg.bgsrymlpepmgqpmfrlpemramqbcsyd
ebgqpemgrrmx. qmqpemrlymlbt,mbyumbmuskfrksgsrymgrmgqsyombmnsggnpmgrr
lpnnmramqpekpna;mgqpkpmlpepmgqpmuskbucbygbdpkmlqs qmgqepbgpypumbnnrtmgr
qpemxbytmpyzrtxpygkwmGqpmubydpe,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmbgmfepkpygmkrm.yfpe pscpu,
gqbgmgqptmusumyrgmvtmbytmxpbykmebyombkmxskareg.ypkmlsgqmqpew

Kreerlm bxp--bmdpygnpmkreerl--v.gmyrgmbgmbnnmsymgqpmkqbfpmrambyt
uskbdeppbvnpm ryk sr.kypkkw--XskkmGbtnremxbeespuwmSgmlbkmXskkmGbtnre'k
nrkkmlqs qmasekgmver.dqgmdespawmSgmlbkmrymgqpmlpuusyd-ubtmramgqsk
vpnrcpumaespyumgqbgmPxxbmasekgmkbgmsymxr.eya.nmgqr.dqgmrambyt
 rygsy.by pwmGqpmlpuusydmrcpe,mbyumgqpmvesup-fprfnpmdryp,mqpemabgqpembyu
qpekpnamlpepmnpagmgrmusypmgrdpgqpe,mlsgqmyrmferkfp gmrambmgqseumgrm qppe
bmnrydmpcpysydwmQpemabgqpem rxfrkpumqsxkpnamgrmknppfmbagpemusyype,mbk
.k.bn,mbyumkqpmqbumgqpymryntmgrmksgmbyumgqsyomramlqbgmkqpmqbumnrkgw

GqpmpcpygmqbumpcpetmferxskpmramqbffsypkkmaremqpemaespyuwmXewmLpkgry
lbkmbmxbymram.ypj pfgsrybvnpm qbeb gpe,mpbktmareg.yp,mk.sgbvnpmbdp,mbyu
fnpbkbygmxbyypek;mbyumgqpepmlbkmkrxpmkbgskab gsrymsym ryksupesyd
lsgqmlqbgmkpna-upytsyd,mdpyper.kmaespyukqsfmkqpmqbumbnlbtkmlskqpumbyu
ferxrgpumgqpmxbg q;mv.gmsgmlbkmbmvnb omxreysyd'kmlreomaremqpewmGqpmlbyg
ramXskkmGbtnremlr.numvpmapngmpcpetmqr.emrampcpetmubtwmKqpmep bnnpumqpe
fbkgmosyuypkk--gqpmosyuypkk,mgqpmbaap gsrymramksjgppymtpbek--qrlmkqpmqbu
gb.dqgmbyumqrlmkqpmqbumfnbtpumlsgqmqpemaerxmascpmtpbekmrnu--qrlmkqpmqbu
upcrgpumbnnmqpemfrlpekmgrmbggb qmbyumbx.kpmqpemsymqpbngq--byumqrl
y.ekpumqpemgqer.dqmgqpmcbesr.kmsnnypkkpkmram qsnuqrruwmBmnbedpmupvgmra
debgsg.upmlbkmrlsydmqpep;mv.gmgqpmsygpe r.ekpmramgqpmnbkgmkpcpy
tpbek,mgqpmph.bnmarrgsydmbyumfpeap gm.yepkpecpmlqs qmqbumkrrymarnnrlpu
Skbvpnnb'kmxbeesbdp,mrymgqpsemvpsydmnpagmgrmpb qmrgqpe,mlbkmtpgmb
upbepe,mgpyupepemep rnnp gsrywmKqpmqbumvppymbmaespyumbyum rxfbysrymk. q
bkmaplmfrkkpkkpu:msygpnnsdpyg,mlpnn-syarexpu,m.kpa.n,mdpygnp,moyrlsyd
bnnmgqpmlbtkmramgqpmabxsnt,msygpepkgpumsymbnnmsgkm ry peyk,mbyu
fp .nsbentmsygpepkgpumsymqpekpna,msympcpetmfnpbk.ep,mpcpetmk qpxpmra
qpek--rypmgrmlqrxmkqpm r.numkfpbompcpetmgqr.dqgmbkmsgmberkp,mbyumlqrmqbu
k. qmbymbaap gsrymaremqpembkm r.numypcpemasyumab.ngw

Qrlmlbkmkqpmgrmvpbemgqpm qbydp?--Sgmlbkmge.pmgqbgmqpemaespyumlbkmdrsyd
ryntmqbnambmxsnpmaerxmgqpx;mv.gmPxxbmlbkmblbepmgqbgmdepbgmx.kgmvpmgqp
usaapepy pmvpglppymbmXekwmLpkgry,mryntmqbnambmxsnpmaerxmgqpx,mbyumbmXskk
Gbtnremsymgqpmqr.kp;mbyumlsgqmbnnmqpembucbygbdpk,mybg.ebnmbyumurxpkgs ,
kqpmlbkmyrlmsymdepbgmubydpemramk.aapesydmaerxmsygpnnp g.bnmkrnsg.upwmKqp
upbentmnrcpumqpemabgqpe,mv.gmqpmlbkmyrm rxfbysrymaremqpewmQpm r.numyrg
xppgmqpemsym rycpekbgsry,mebgsrybnmremfnbta.nw

Gqpmpcsnmramgqpmb g.bnmuskfbesgtmsymgqpsembdpkm(byumXewmLrruqr.kpmqbu
yrgmxbeespumpbent)mlbkmx. qmsy epbkpumvtmqskm rykgsg.gsrymbyumqbvsgk;
aremqbcsydmvppymbmcbnpg.usybesbymbnnmqskmnsap,mlsgqr.gmb gscsgtmra
xsyumremvrut,mqpmlbkmbmx. qmrnupemxbymsymlbtkmgqbymsymtpbek;mbyumgqr.dq
pcpetlqpepmvpnrcpumaremgqpmaespyunsypkkmramqskmqpbegmbyumqskmbxsbvnp
gpxfpe,mqskmgbnpygkm r.numyrgmqbcpmep rxxpyupumqsxmbgmbytmgsxpw

Qpemkskgpe,mgqr.dqm rxfbebgscpntmv.gmnsggnpmepxrcpumvtmxbgesxryt,mvpsyd
kpggnpumsymNryury,mryntmksjgppymxsnpkmraa,mlbkmx. qmvptryumqpemubsnt
epb q;mbyumxbytmbmnrydmR grvpembyumYrcpxvpempcpysydmx.kgmvpmkge.ddnpu
gqer.dqmbgmQbegaspnu,mvparepm qeskgxbkmver.dqgmgqpmypjgmcsksgmaerx
Skbvpnnbmbyumqpemq.kvbyu,mbyumgqpsemnsggnpm qsnuepy,mgrmasnnmgqpmqr.kp,
byumdscpmqpemfnpbkbygmkr spgtmbdbsyw

Qsdqv.et,mgqpmnbedpmbyumfrf.nr.kmcsnnbdp,mbnxrkgmbxr.ygsydmgrmbmgrly,
grmlqs qmQbegaspnu,msymkfsgpmramsgkmkpfbebgpmnbly,mbyumkqe.vvpespk,mbyu
ybxp,musumepbnntmvpnryd,mbaareupumqpemyrmph.bnkwmGqpmLrruqr.kpk
lpepmasekgmsym rykph.py pmgqpepwmBnnmnrropum.fmgrmgqpxwmKqpmqbumxbyt
b h.bsygby pmsymgqpmfnb p,maremqpemabgqpemlbkm.yscpekbnntm scsn,mv.g
yrgmrypmbxrydmgqpxmlqrm r.numvpmb  pfgpumsymnsp.mramXskkmGbtnremarempcpy
qbnambmubtwmSgmlbkmbmxpnby qrntm qbydp;mbyumPxxbm r.numyrgmv.gmksdqmrcpe
sg,mbyumlskqmaremsxfrkksvnpmgqsydk,mgsnnmqpemabgqpemblrop,mbyumxbupmsg
yp pkkbetmgrmvpm qppea.nwmQskmkfsesgkmeph.sepumk.ffregwmQpmlbkmbmypecr.k
xby,mpbksntmupfepkkpu;maryumrampcpetmvrutmgqbgmqpmlbkm.kpumgr,mbyu
qbgsydmgrmfbegmlsgqmgqpx;mqbgsydm qbydpmrampcpetmosyuwmXbgesxryt,mbkmgqp
resdsymram qbydp,mlbkmbnlbtkmuskbdeppbvnp;mbyumqpmlbkmvtmyrmxpbykmtpg
ep ry snpumgrmqskmrlymub.dqgpe'kmxbeetsyd,myrem r.numpcpemkfpbomramqpe
v.gmlsgqm rxfbkksry,mgqr.dqmsgmqbumvppympygsepntmbmxbg qmrambaap gsry,
lqpymqpmlbkmyrlmrvnsdpumgrmfbegmlsgqmXskkmGbtnremgrr;mbyumaerxmqsk
qbvsgkmramdpygnpmkpnaskqypkk,mbyumramvpsydmypcpembvnpmgrmk.ffrkpmgqbg
rgqpemfprfnpm r.numappnmusaapepygntmaerxmqsxkpna,mqpmlbkmcpetmx. q
uskfrkpumgrmgqsyomXskkmGbtnremqbumurypmbkmkbumbmgqsydmaremqpekpnambkmare
gqpx,mbyumlr.numqbcpmvppymbmdepbgmupbnmqbffspemsamkqpmqbumkfpygmbnnmgqp
epkgmramqpemnsapmbgmQbegaspnuwmPxxbmkxsnpumbyum qbggpumbkm qppea.nnt
bkmkqpm r.nu,mgrmoppfmqsxmaerxmk. qmgqr.dqgk;mv.gmlqpymgpbm bxp,msgmlbk
sxfrkksvnpmaremqsxmyrgmgrmkbtmpjb gntmbkmqpmqbumkbsumbgmusyype,

“FrremXskkmGbtnre!--SmlskqmkqpmlpepmqpepmbdbsywmLqbgmbmfsgtmsgmskmgqbg
XewmLpkgrympcpemgqr.dqgmramqpe!”

“Sm byyrgmbdeppmlsgqmtr.,mfbfb;mtr.moyrlmSm byyrgwmXewmLpkgrymskmk. q
bmdrru-q.xr.epu,mfnpbkbyg,mpj pnnpygmxby,mgqbgmqpmgqrer.dqntmupkpecpk
bmdrrumlsap;--byumtr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmqbumXskkmGbtnremnscpmlsgqm.kmare
pcpe,mbyumvpbembnnmxtmruumq.xr.ek,mlqpymkqpmxsdqgmqbcpmbmqr.kpmramqpe
rly?”

“Bmqr.kpmramqpemrly!--V.gmlqpepmskmgqpmbucbygbdpmrambmqr.kpmramqpemrly?
Gqskmskmgqeppmgsxpkmbkmnbedpw--Byumtr.mqbcpmypcpembytmruumq.xr.ek,mxt
upbew”

“Qrlmragpymlpmkqbnnmvpmdrsydmgrmkppmgqpx,mbyumgqptm rxsydmgrmkppm.k!--Lp
kqbnnmvpmbnlbtkmxppgsyd!m_Lp_mx.kgmvpdsy;mlpmx.kgmdrmbyumfbtmlpuusyd
csksgmcpetmkrryw”

“Xtmupbe,mqrlmbxmSmgrmdpgmkrmabe?mEbyubnnkmskmk. qmbmuskgby pwmSm r.nu
yrgmlbnomqbnamkrmabew”

“Yr,mfbfb,myrvrutmgqr.dqgmramtr.emlbnosydwmLpmx.kgmdrmsymgqpm beesbdp,
grmvpmk.epw”

“Gqpm beesbdp!mV.gmZbxpkmlsnnmyrgmnsopmgrmf.gmgqpmqrekpkmgrmaremk. qmb
nsggnpmlbt;--byumlqpepmbepmgqpmfrremqrekpkmgrmvpmlqsnpmlpmbepmfbtsydmr.e
csksg?”

“Gqptmbepmgrmvpmf.gmsygrmXewmLpkgry'kmkgbvnp,mfbfbwmTr.moyrlmlpmqbcp
kpggnpumbnnmgqbgmbnepbutwmLpmgbnopumsgmbnnmrcpemlsgqmXewmLpkgrymnbkg
ysdqgwmByumbkmaremZbxpk,mtr.mxbtmvpmcpetmk.epmqpmlsnnmbnlbtkmnsopmdrsyd
grmEbyubnnk,mvp b.kpmramqskmub.dqgpe'kmvpsydmqr.kpxbsumgqpepwmSmrynt
ur.vgmlqpgqpemqpmlsnnmpcpemgbopm.kmbytlqpepmpnkpwmGqbgmlbkmtr.emursyd,
fbfbwmTr.mdrgmQbyybqmgqbgmdrrumfnb pwmYrvrutmgqr.dqgmramQbyybqmgsnnmtr.
xpygsrypumqpe--Zbxpkmskmkrmrvnsdpumgrmtr.!”

“SmbxmcpetmdnbumSmusumgqsyomramqpewmSgmlbkmcpetmn. ot,maremSmlr.numyrg
qbcpmqbumfrremZbxpkmgqsyomqsxkpnamknsdqgpum.frymbytmb  r.yg;mbyumSmbx
k.epmkqpmlsnnmxbopmbmcpetmdrrumkpecbyg:mkqpmskmbm scsn,mfepggt-kfropy
dsen;mSmqbcpmbmdepbgmrfsysrymramqpewmLqpypcpemSmkppmqpe,mkqpmbnlbtk
 .egkptkmbyumbkokmxpmqrlmSmur,msymbmcpetmfepggtmxbyype;mbyumlqpymtr.
qbcpmqbumqpemqpepmgrmurmyppunplreo,mSmrvkpecpmkqpmbnlbtkmg.eykmgqpmnr o
ramgqpmurremgqpmesdqgmlbtmbyumypcpemvbydkmsgwmSmbxmk.epmkqpmlsnnmvpmby
pj pnnpygmkpecbyg;mbyumsgmlsnnmvpmbmdepbgm rxaregmgrmfrremXskkmGbtnre
grmqbcpmkrxpvrutmbvr.gmqpemgqbgmkqpmskm.kpumgrmkppwmLqpypcpemZbxpkmdrpk
rcpemgrmkppmqskmub.dqgpe,mtr.moyrl,mkqpmlsnnmvpmqpbesydmram.kwmQpmlsnn
vpmbvnpmgrmgpnnmqpemqrlmlpmbnnmbepw”

Pxxbmkfbepumyrmpjpegsrykmgrmxbsygbsymgqskmqbffspemanrlmramsupbk,mbyu
qrfpu,mvtmgqpmqpnfmramvb odbxxry,mgrmdpgmqpemabgqpemgrnpebvnt
gqer.dqmgqpmpcpysyd,mbyumvpmbggb opumvtmyrmepdepgkmv.gmqpemrlywmGqp
vb odbxxry-gbvnpmlbkmfnb pu;mv.gmbmcsksgremsxxpusbgpntmbagpelbeukmlbnopu
symbyumxbupmsgm.yyp pkkbetw

XewmOysdqgnpt,mbmkpyksvnpmxbymbvr.gmkpcpymrempsdqg-byu-gqsegt,mlbkmyrg
ryntmbmcpetmrnumbyumsygsxbgpmaespyumramgqpmabxsnt,mv.gmfbegs .nbent
 ryyp gpumlsgqmsg,mbkmgqpmpnupemvergqpemramSkbvpnnb'kmq.kvbyuwmQpmnscpu
bvr.gmbmxsnpmaerxmQsdqv.et,mlbkmbmaeph.pygmcsksgre,mbyumbnlbtkmlpn rxp,
byumbgmgqskmgsxpmxrepmlpn rxpmgqbym.k.bn,mbkm rxsydmusep gntmaerxmgqpse
x.g.bnm ryypjsrykmsymNryurywmQpmqbumepg.eypumgrmbmnbgpmusyype,mbagpe
krxpmubtk'mbvkpy p,mbyumyrlmlbnopum.fmgrmQbegaspnumgrmkbtmgqbgmbnnmlpep
lpnnmsymVe.ykls omKh.bepwmSgmlbkmbmqbfftm se .xkgby p,mbyumbysxbgpu
XewmLrruqr.kpmaremkrxpmgsxpwmXewmOysdqgnptmqbumbm qppea.nmxbyype,mlqs q
bnlbtkmusumqsxmdrru;mbyumqskmxbytmsyh.sespkmbagpem“frremSkbvpnnb”mbyu
qpem qsnuepymlpepmbyklpepumxrkgmkbgskab gresntwmLqpymgqskmlbkmrcpe,mXew
Lrruqr.kpmdebgpa.nntmrvkpecpu,m“Sgmskmcpetmosyumramtr.,mXewmOysdqgnpt,
grm rxpmr.gmbgmgqskmnbgpmqr.emgrm bnnm.frym.kwmSmbxmbaebsumtr.mx.kgmqbcp
qbumbmkqr osydmlbnow”

“Yrgmbgmbnn,mksewmSgmskmbmvpb.gsa.nmxrrynsdqgmysdqg;mbyumkrmxsnumgqbgmS
x.kgmueblmvb omaerxmtr.emdepbgmasepw”

“V.gmtr.mx.kgmqbcpmar.yumsgmcpetmubxfmbyumusegtwmSmlskqmtr.mxbtmyrg
 bg qm rnuw”

“Usegt,mkse!mNrrombgmxtmkqrpkwmYrgmbmkfp omrymgqpxw”

“Lpnn!mgqbgmskmh.sgpmk.efesksyd,maremlpmqbcpmqbumbmcbkgmupbnmramebsy
qpepwmSgmebsypumuepbua.nntmqbeumaremqbnambymqr.emlqsnpmlpmlpepmbg
vepboabkgwmSmlbygpumgqpxmgrmf.gmraamgqpmlpuusydw”

“Vtmgqpmvtp--Smqbcpmyrgmlskqpumtr.mzrtwmVpsydmfepggtmlpnnmblbepmramlqbg
kregmramzrtmtr.mx.kgmvrgqmvpmappnsyd,mSmqbcpmvppymsymyrmq.eetmlsgqmxt
 rydebg.nbgsryk;mv.gmSmqrfpmsgmbnnmlpygmraamgrnpebvntmlpnnwmQrlmusumtr.
bnnmvpqbcp?mLqrm espumxrkg?”

“Bq!mfrremXskkmGbtnre!m'Gskmbmkbumv.ksypkkw”

“FrremXewmbyumXskkmLrruqr.kp,msamtr.mfnpbkp;mv.gmSm byyrgmfrkksvntmkbt
'frremXskkmGbtnrew'mSmqbcpmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremtr.mbyumPxxb;mv.gmlqpymsg
 rxpkmgrmgqpmh.pkgsrymramupfpyupy pmremsyupfpyupy p!--Bgmbytmebgp,msg
x.kgmvpmvpggpemgrmqbcpmryntmrypmgrmfnpbkpmgqbymglrw”

“Pkfp sbnntmlqpym_ryp_mramgqrkpmglrmskmk. qmbmaby sa.n,mger.vnpkrxp
 epbg.ep!”mkbsumPxxbmfnbta.nntwm“Gqbgmskmlqbgmtr.mqbcpmsymtr.emqpbu,mS
oyrl--byumlqbgmtr.mlr.num pegbsyntmkbtmsamxtmabgqpemlpepmyrgmvtw”

“Smvpnspcpmsgmskmcpetmge.p,mxtmupbe,msyuppu,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp,mlsgqmb
ksdqwm“SmbxmbaebsumSmbxmkrxpgsxpkmcpetmaby sa.nmbyumger.vnpkrxpw”

“Xtmupbepkgmfbfb!mTr.murmyrgmgqsyomSm r.numxpbym_tr._,mremk.ffrkpmXew
Oysdqgnptmgrmxpbym_tr._wmLqbgmbmqreesvnpmsupb!mRqmyr!mSmxpbygmrynt
xtkpnawmXewmOysdqgnptmnrcpkmgrmasyumab.ngmlsgqmxp,mtr.moyrl--symb
zrop--sgmskmbnnmbmzropwmLpmbnlbtkmkbtmlqbgmlpmnsopmgrmrypmbyrgqpew”

XewmOysdqgnpt,msymab g,mlbkmrypmramgqpmaplmfprfnpmlqrm r.numkppmab.ngk
symPxxbmLrruqr.kp,mbyumgqpmryntmrypmlqrmpcpemgrnumqpemramgqpx:mbyu
gqr.dqmgqskmlbkmyrgmfbegs .nbentmbdeppbvnpmgrmPxxbmqpekpna,mkqpmoypl
sgmlr.numvpmkrmx. qmnpkkmkrmgrmqpemabgqpe,mgqbgmkqpmlr.numyrgmqbcpmqsx
epbnntmk.kfp gmk. qmbm se .xkgby pmbkmqpemyrgmvpsydmgqr.dqgmfpeap gmvt
pcpetmvrutw

“PxxbmoyrlkmSmypcpemanbggpemqpe,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt,m“v.gmSmxpbygmyr
epanp gsrymrymbytmvrutwmXskkmGbtnremqbkmvppym.kpumgrmqbcpmglrmfpekryk
grmfnpbkp;mkqpmlsnnmyrlmqbcpmv.gmrypwmGqpm qby pkmbepmgqbgmkqpmx.kgmvpmb
dbsypew”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumPxxb,mlsnnsydmgrmnpgmsgmfbkk--“tr.mlbygmgrmqpbembvr.g
gqpmlpuusyd;mbyumSmkqbnnmvpmqbfftmgrmgpnnmtr.,maremlpmbnnmvpqbcpu
 qbexsydntwmPcpetmvrutmlbkmf.y g.bn,mpcpetmvrutmsymgqpsemvpkgmnrrok:myrg
bmgpbe,mbyumqbeuntmbmnrydmab pmgrmvpmkppywmRqmyr;mlpmbnnmapngmgqbgmlp
lpepmdrsydmgrmvpmryntmqbnambmxsnpmbfbeg,mbyumlpepmk.epmramxppgsydmpcpet
ubtw”

“UpbemPxxbmvpbekmpcpetmgqsydmkrmlpnn,”mkbsumqpemabgqpewm“V.g,mXew
Oysdqgnpt,mkqpmskmepbnntmcpetmkreetmgrmnrkpmfrremXskkmGbtnre,mbyumSmbx
k.epmkqpm_lsnn_mxskkmqpemxrepmgqbymkqpmgqsyokmarew”

Pxxbmg.eypumblbtmqpemqpbu,muscsupumvpglppymgpbekmbyumkxsnpkwm“Sg
skmsxfrkksvnpmgqbgmPxxbmkqr.numyrgmxskkmk. qmbm rxfbysry,”mkbsumXew
Oysdqgnptwm“Lpmkqr.numyrgmnsopmqpemkrmlpnnmbkmlpmur,mkse,msamlpm r.nu
k.ffrkpmsg;mv.gmkqpmoyrlkmqrlmx. qmgqpmxbeesbdpmskmgrmXskkmGbtnre'k
bucbygbdp;mkqpmoyrlkmqrlmcpetmb  pfgbvnpmsgmx.kgmvp,mbgmXskkmGbtnre'k
gsxpmramnsap,mgrmvpmkpggnpumsymbmqrxpmramqpemrly,mbyumqrlmsxfregbygmgr
qpemgrmvpmkp .epmrambm rxaregbvnpmfercsksry,mbyumgqpeparepm byyrgmbnnrl
qpekpnamgrmappnmkrmx. qmfbsymbkmfnpbk.epwmPcpetmaespyumramXskkmGbtnre
x.kgmvpmdnbumgrmqbcpmqpemkrmqbffsntmxbeespuw”

“Byumtr.mqbcpmaredrggpymrypmxbggpemramzrtmgrmxp,”mkbsumPxxb,m“byumbmcpet
 ryksupebvnpmryp--gqbgmSmxbupmgqpmxbg qmxtkpnawmSmxbupmgqpmxbg q,mtr.
oyrl,mar.emtpbekmbdr;mbyumgrmqbcpmsgmgbopmfnb p,mbyumvpmfercpumsymgqp
esdqg,mlqpymkrmxbytmfprfnpmkbsumXewmLpkgrymlr.numypcpemxbeetmbdbsy,mxbt
 rxaregmxpmarembytmgqsydw”

XewmOysdqgnptmkqrromqskmqpbumbgmqpewmQpemabgqpemaryuntmepfnspu,m“Bq!
xtmupbe,mSmlskqmtr.mlr.numyrgmxbopmxbg qpkmbyumarepgpnnmgqsydk,mare
lqbgpcpemtr.mkbtmbnlbtkm rxpkmgrmfbkkwmFebtmurmyrgmxbopmbytmxrep
xbg qpkw”

“Smferxskpmtr.mgrmxbopmyrypmaremxtkpna,mfbfb;mv.gmSmx.kg,msyuppu,mare
rgqpemfprfnpwmSgmskmgqpmdepbgpkgmbx.kpxpygmsymgqpmlrenu!mByumbagpemk. q
k.  pkk,mtr.moyrl!--PcpetmvrutmkbsumgqbgmXewmLpkgrymlr.numypcpemxbeet
bdbsywmRqmupbe,myr!mXewmLpkgry,mlqrmqbumvppymbmlsurlpemkrmnryd,mbyumlqr
kppxpumkrmfpeap gntm rxaregbvnpmlsgqr.gmbmlsap,mkrm rykgbygntmr  .fspu
psgqpemsymqskmv.ksypkkmsymgrlymrembxrydmqskmaespyukmqpep,mbnlbtk
b  pfgbvnpmlqpepcpemqpmlpyg,mbnlbtkm qppea.n--XewmLpkgrymyppumyrgmkfpyu
bmksydnpmpcpysydmsymgqpmtpbembnrypmsamqpmusumyrgmnsopmsgwmRqmyr!mXew
Lpkgrym pegbsyntmlr.numypcpemxbeetmbdbsywmKrxpmfprfnpmpcpymgbnopumramb
ferxskpmgrmqskmlsapmrymqpemupbgqvpu,mbyumrgqpekmramgqpmkrymbyumgqp
.y npmyrgmnpggsydmqsxwmBnnmxbyypemramkrnpxymyrykpykpmlbkmgbnopumrymgqp
k.vzp g,mv.gmSmvpnspcpumyrypmramsgw

“Pcpemksy pmgqpmubt--bvr.gmar.emtpbekmbdr--gqbgmXskkmGbtnrembyumSmxpg
lsgqmqsxmsymVerbulbtmNbyp,mlqpy,mvp b.kpmsgmvpdbymgrmuesiinp,mqpmubegpu
blbtmlsgqmkrmx. qmdbnnbyget,mbyumvreerlpumglrm.xvepnnbkmarem.kmaerx
AbexpemXsg qpnn'k,mSmxbupm.fmxtmxsyumrymgqpmk.vzp gwmSmfnbyypumgqpmxbg q
aerxmgqbgmqr.e;mbyumlqpymk. qmk.  pkkmqbkmvnpkkpumxpmsymgqskmsykgby p,
upbemfbfb,mtr.m byyrgmgqsyomgqbgmSmkqbnnmnpbcpmraamxbg q-xbosydw”

“Smurmyrgm.yupekgbyumlqbgmtr.mxpbymvtm'k.  pkk,'”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptw
“K.  pkkmk.ffrkpkmpyupbcr.ewmTr.emgsxpmqbkmvppymferfpentmbyumupns bgpnt
kfpyg,msamtr.mqbcpmvppympyupbcr.esydmaremgqpmnbkgmar.emtpbekmgrmvesyd
bvr.gmgqskmxbeesbdpwmBmlregqtmpxfnrtxpygmarembmtr.ydmnbut'kmxsyu!mV.g
sa,mlqs qmSmebgqpemsxbdsyp,mtr.emxbosydmgqpmxbg q,mbkmtr.m bnnmsg,mxpbyk
ryntmtr.emfnbyysydmsg,mtr.emkbtsydmgrmtr.ekpnamrypmsunpmubt,m'Smgqsyomsg
lr.numvpmbmcpetmdrrumgqsydmaremXskkmGbtnremsamXewmLpkgrymlpepmgrmxbeet
qpe,'mbyumkbtsydmsgmbdbsymgrmtr.ekpnampcpetmyrlmbyumgqpymbagpelbeuk,mlqt
urmtr.mgbnomramk.  pkk?mLqpepmskmtr.emxpesg?mLqbgmbepmtr.mfer.umra?mTr.
xbupmbmn. otmd.pkk;mbyum_gqbg_mskmbnnmgqbgm bymvpmkbsuw”

“Byumqbcpmtr.mypcpemoyrlymgqpmfnpbk.epmbyumges.xfqmrambmn. otmd.pkk?--S
fsgtmtr.w--Smgqr.dqgmtr.m npcpepe--are,mupfpyum.frymsgmbmn. otmd.pkkmsk
ypcpemxpepntmn. owmGqpepmskmbnlbtkmkrxpmgbnpygmsymsgwmByumbkmgrmxt
frremlreum'k.  pkk,'mlqs qmtr.mh.beepnmlsgq,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmgqbgmSmbxmkr
pygsepntmlsgqr.gmbytm nbsxmgrmsgwmTr.mqbcpmueblymglrmfepggtmfs g.epk;
v.gmSmgqsyomgqpepmxbtmvpmbmgqseu--bmkrxpgqsydmvpglppymgqpmur-yrgqsydmbyu
gqpmur-bnnwmSamSmqbumyrgmferxrgpumXewmLpkgry'kmcsksgkmqpep,mbyumdscpy
xbytmnsggnpmpy r.ebdpxpygk,mbyumkxrrgqpumxbytmnsggnpmxbggpek,msgmxsdqg
yrgmqbcpm rxpmgrmbytmgqsydmbagpembnnwmSmgqsyomtr.mx.kgmoyrlmQbegaspnu
pyr.dqmgrm rxfepqpyumgqbgw”

“Bmkgebsdqgarelbeu,mrfpy-qpbegpumxbymnsopmLpkgry,mbyumbmebgsrybn,
.ybaap gpumlrxbymnsopmXskkmGbtnre,mxbtmvpmkbapntmnpagmgrmxbybdpmgqpse
rlym ry peykwmTr.mbepmxrepmnsopntmgrmqbcpmurypmqbexmgrmtr.ekpna,mgqby
drrumgrmgqpx,mvtmsygpeapepy pw”

“Pxxbmypcpemgqsyokmramqpekpna,msamkqpm bymurmdrrumgrmrgqpek,”mepzrsypu
XewmLrruqr.kp,m.yupekgbyusydmv.gmsymfbegwm“V.g,mxtmupbe,mfebtmurmyrg
xbopmbytmxrepmxbg qpk;mgqptmbepmksnntmgqsydk,mbyumvepbom.fmryp'kmabxsnt
 se npmdespcr.kntw”

“Ryntmrypmxrep,mfbfb;mryntmaremXewmPngrywmFrremXewmPngry!mTr.mnsopmXew
Pngry,mfbfb,--Smx.kgmnrrombvr.gmarembmlsapmaremqsxwmGqpepmskmyrvrutmsy
Qsdqv.etmlqrmupkpecpkmqsx--byumqpmqbkmvppymqpepmbmlqrnpmtpbe,mbyumqbk
asggpum.fmqskmqr.kpmkrm rxaregbvnt,mgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmbmkqbxpmgrmqbcpmqsx
ksydnpmbytmnrydpe--byumSmgqr.dqgmlqpymqpmlbkmzrsysydmgqpsemqbyukmgr-ubt,
qpmnrropumkrmcpetmx. qmbkmsamqpmlr.numnsopmgrmqbcpmgqpmkbxpmosyumraas p
urypmaremqsx!mSmgqsyomcpetmlpnnmramXewmPngry,mbyumgqskmskmgqpmryntmlbtmS
qbcpmramursydmqsxmbmkpecs pw”

“XewmPngrymskmbmcpetmfepggtmtr.ydmxby,mgrmvpmk.ep,mbyumbmcpetmdrrumtr.yd
xby,mbyumSmqbcpmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremqsxwmV.gmsamtr.mlbygmgrmkqplmqsxmbyt
bggpygsry,mxtmupbe,mbkomqsxmgrm rxpmbyumusypmlsgqm.kmkrxpmubtwmGqbgmlsnn
vpmbmx. qmvpggpemgqsydwmSmubepmkbtmXewmOysdqgnptmlsnnmvpmkrmosyumbkmgr
xppgmqsxw”

“Lsgqmbmdepbgmupbnmramfnpbk.ep,mkse,mbgmbytmgsxp,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt,
nb.dqsyd,m“byumSmbdeppmlsgqmtr.mpygsepnt,mgqbgmsgmlsnnmvpmbmx. qmvpggpe
gqsydwmSycsgpmqsxmgrmusyype,mPxxb,mbyumqpnfmqsxmgrmgqpmvpkgmramgqpmaskq
byumgqpm qs opy,mv.gmnpbcpmqsxmgrm q.kpmqskmrlymlsapwmUpfpyum.frymsg,mb
xbymramksjmremkpcpy-byu-glpygtm bymgbopm bepmramqsxkpnaw”



 QBFGPEmSS


XewmLpkgrymlbkmbmybgscpmramQsdqv.et,mbyumvreymrambmepkfp gbvnpmabxsnt,
lqs qmaremgqpmnbkgmglrmremgqeppmdpypebgsrykmqbumvppymesksydmsygr
dpygsnsgtmbyumferfpegtwmQpmqbumep pscpumbmdrrumpu. bgsry,mv.g,mry
k.  ppusydmpbentmsymnsapmgrmbmkxbnnmsyupfpyupy p,mqbumvp rxpmsyuskfrkpu
arembytmramgqpmxrepmqrxpntmf.ek.sgkmsymlqs qmqskmvergqpekmlpepmpydbdpu,
byumqbumkbgskaspumbymb gscp,m qppea.nmxsyumbyumkr sbnmgpxfpemvtmpygpesyd
sygrmgqpmxsnsgsbmramqskm r.ygt,mgqpympxvruspuw

 bfgbsymLpkgrymlbkmbmdpypebnmabcr.esgp;mbyumlqpymgqpm qby pkmramqsk
xsnsgbetmnsapmqbumsygeru. pumqsxmgrmXskkm q.e qsnn,mrambmdepbgmTreokqsep
abxsnt,mbyumXskkm q.e qsnnmapnnmsymnrcpmlsgqmqsx,myrvrutmlbkmk.efesipu,
pj pfgmqpemvergqpembyumqskmlsap,mlqrmqbumypcpemkppymqsx,mbyumlqrmlpep
a.nnmramfesupmbyumsxfregby p,mlqs qmgqpm ryypjsrymlr.numraapyuw

Xskkm q.e qsnn,mqrlpcpe,mvpsydmrambdp,mbyumlsgqmgqpma.nnm rxxbyumramqpe
areg.yp--gqr.dqmqpemareg.ypmvrepmyrmferfregsrymgrmgqpmabxsnt-pkgbgp--lbk
yrgmgrmvpmuskk.bupumaerxmgqpmxbeesbdp,mbyumsgmgrromfnb p,mgrmgqp
syasysgpmxregsas bgsrymramXewmbyumXekwm q.e qsnn,mlqrmgqeplmqpemraamlsgq
u.pmup re.xwmSgmlbkmbym.yk.sgbvnpm ryypjsry,mbyumusumyrgmferu. pmx. q
qbffsypkkwmXekwmLpkgrymr.dqgmgrmqbcpmar.yumxrepmsymsg,maremkqpmqbumb
q.kvbyumlqrkpmlbexmqpbegmbyumklppgmgpxfpemxbupmqsxmgqsyompcpetmgqsydmu.p
grmqpemsymepg.eymaremgqpmdepbgmdrruypkkmramvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqsx;
v.gmgqr.dqmkqpmqbumrypmkregmramkfsesg,mkqpmqbumyrgmgqpmvpkgwmKqpmqbu
epkrn.gsrympyr.dqmgrmf.ek.pmqpemrlymlsnnmsymkfsgpmramqpemvergqpe,
v.gmyrgmpyr.dqmgrmepaebsymaerxm.yepbkrybvnpmepdepgkmbgmgqbgmvergqpe'k
.yepbkrybvnpmbydpe,myremaerxmxskksydmgqpmn.j.espkmramqpemarexpemqrxpw
Gqptmnscpumvptryumgqpsemsy rxp,mv.gmkgsnnmsgmlbkmyrgqsydmsym rxfbeskry
ramPyk rxvp:mkqpmusumyrgm pbkpmgrmnrcpmqpemq.kvbyu,mv.gmkqpmlbygpumbg
ry pmgrmvpmgqpmlsapmram bfgbsymLpkgry,mbyumXskkm q.e qsnnmramPyk rxvpw

 bfgbsymLpkgry,mlqrmqbumvppym ryksupepu,mpkfp sbnntmvtmgqpm q.e qsnnk,
bkmxbosydmk. qmbymbxbisydmxbg q,mlbkmfercpumgrmqbcpmx. qmgqpmlrekgmra
gqpmvbedbsy;maremlqpymqskmlsapmuspu,mbagpembmgqeppmtpbek'mxbeesbdp,mqp
lbkmebgqpembmfrrepemxbymgqbymbgmasekg,mbyumlsgqmbm qsnumgrmxbsygbsyw
Aerxmgqpmpjfpykpmramgqpm qsnu,mqrlpcpe,mqpmlbkmkrrymepnspcpuwmGqpmvrt
qbu,mlsgqmgqpmbuusgsrybnmkragpysydm nbsxmrambmnsydpesydmsnnypkkmramqsk
xrgqpe'k,mvppymgqpmxpbykmrambmkregmramep ry snsbgsry;mbyumXewmbyumXekw
 q.e qsnn,mqbcsydmyrm qsnuepymramgqpsemrly,myrembytmrgqpemtr.ydm epbg.ep
ramph.bnmosyuepumgrm bepmare,mraapepumgrmgbopmgqpmlqrnpm qbedpmramgqp
nsggnpmAebyomkrrymbagpemqpemup pbkpwmKrxpmk e.fnpkmbyumkrxpmepn. gby p
gqpmlsurlpe-abgqpemxbtmvpmk.ffrkpumgrmqbcpmapng;mv.gmbkmgqptmlpep
rcpe rxpmvtmrgqpem ryksupebgsryk,mgqpm qsnumlbkmdscpym.fmgrmgqpm bepmbyu
gqpmlpbngqmramgqpm q.e qsnnk,mbyumqpmqbumryntmqskmrlym rxaregmgrmkppo,
byumqskmrlymksg.bgsrymgrmsxfercpmbkmqpm r.nuw

Bm rxfnpgpm qbydpmramnsapmvp bxpmupksebvnpwmQpmh.sggpumgqpmxsnsgsbmbyu
pydbdpumsymgebup,mqbcsydmvergqpekmbnepbutmpkgbvnskqpumsymbmdrrumlbtmsy
Nryury,mlqs qmbaareupumqsxmbmabcr.ebvnpmrfpysydwmSgmlbkmbm ry peymlqs q
ver.dqgmz.kgmpxfnrtxpygmpyr.dqwmQpmqbumkgsnnmbmkxbnnmqr.kpmsymQsdqv.et,
lqpepmxrkgmramqskmnpsk.epmubtkmlpepmkfpyg;mbyumvpglppym.kpa.nmr  .fbgsry
byumgqpmfnpbk.epkmramkr spgt,mgqpmypjgmpsdqgppymremglpygtmtpbekmramqsk
nsapmfbkkpum qppea.nntmblbtwmQpmqbu,mvtmgqbgmgsxp,mepbnskpumbympbkt
 rxfpgpy p--pyr.dqmgrmkp .epmgqpmf.e qbkpmrambmnsggnpmpkgbgpmbuzrsysyd
Qsdqv.et,mlqs qmqpmqbumbnlbtkmnrydpumare--pyr.dqmgrmxbeetmbmlrxbymbk
fregsrynpkkmpcpymbkmXskkmGbtnre,mbyumgrmnscpmb  reusydmgrmgqpmlskqpkmra
qskmrlymaespyuntmbyumkr sbnmuskfrksgsryw

Sgmlbkmyrlmkrxpmgsxpmksy pmXskkmGbtnremqbumvpd.ymgrmsyan.py pmqsk
k qpxpk;mv.gmbkmsgmlbkmyrgmgqpmgtebyys msyan.py pmramtr.gqmrymtr.gq,
sgmqbumyrgmkqbopymqskmupgpexsybgsrymramypcpemkpggnsydmgsnnmqpm r.nu
f.e qbkpmEbyubnnk,mbyumgqpmkbnpmramEbyubnnkmlbkmnrydmnrropumarelbeumgr;
v.gmqpmqbumdrypmkgpbusntmry,mlsgqmgqpkpmrvzp gkmsymcspl,mgsnnmgqptmlpep
b  rxfnskqpuwmQpmqbumxbupmqskmareg.yp,mvr.dqgmqskmqr.kp,mbyumrvgbsypu
qskmlsap;mbyumlbkmvpdsyysydmbmyplmfpesrumrampjskgpy p,mlsgqmpcpet
fervbvsnsgtmramdepbgpemqbffsypkkmgqbymsymbytmtpgmfbkkpumgqer.dqwmQpmqbu
ypcpemvppymbym.yqbfftmxby;mqskmrlymgpxfpemqbumkp .epumqsxmaerxmgqbg,
pcpymsymqskmasekgmxbeesbdp;mv.gmqskmkp ryumx.kgmkqplmqsxmqrlmupnsdqga.n
bmlpnn-z.udsydmbyumge.ntmbxsbvnpmlrxbym r.numvp,mbyumx.kgmdscpmqsxmgqp
fnpbkbygpkgmferramramsgkmvpsydmbmdepbgmupbnmvpggpemgrm qrrkpmgqbymgrmvp
 qrkpy,mgrmpj sgpmdebgsg.upmgqbymgrmappnmsgw

Qpmqbumryntmqsxkpnamgrmfnpbkpmsymqskm qrs p:mqskmareg.ypmlbkmqskmrly;
arembkmgrmAebyo,msgmlbkmxrepmgqbymvpsydmgb sgntmver.dqgm.fmbkmqsk
.y np'kmqpse,msgmqbumvp rxpmkrmbcrlpumbymburfgsrymbkmgrmqbcpmqsxmbkk.xp
gqpmybxpmram q.e qsnnmrym rxsydmrambdpwmSgmlbkmxrkgm.ynsopnt,mgqpeparep,
gqbgmqpmkqr.numpcpemlbygmqskmabgqpe'kmbkkskgby pwmQskmabgqpemqbumyr
bffepqpyksrymramsgwmGqpmb.ygmlbkmbm bfes sr.kmlrxby,mbyumdrcpeypumqpe
q.kvbyumpygsepnt;mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmsymXewmLpkgry'kmybg.epmgrmsxbdsypmgqbg
bytm bfes pm r.numvpmkgerydmpyr.dqmgrmbaap gmrypmkrmupbe,mbyu,mbkmqp
vpnspcpu,mkrmupkpecpuntmupbewmQpmkblmqskmkrympcpetmtpbemsymNryury,mbyu
lbkmfer.umramqsx;mbyumqskmaryumepfregmramqsxmbkmbmcpetmasypmtr.ydmxby
qbumxbupmQsdqv.etmappnmbmkregmramfesupmsymqsxmgrrwmQpmlbkmnrropumrymbk
k.aas spygntmvpnrydsydmgrmgqpmfnb pmgrmxbopmqskmxpesgkmbyumferkfp gkmb
osyumram rxxrym ry peyw

XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmrypmramgqpmvrbkgkmramQsdqv.et,mbyumbmnscpnt
 .esrksgtmgrmkppmqsxmfepcbsnpu,mgqr.dqmgqpm rxfnsxpygmlbkmkrmnsggnp
epg.eypumgqbgmqpmqbumypcpemvppymgqpepmsymqskmnsapwmQskm rxsydmgrmcsksg
qskmabgqpemqbumvppymragpymgbnopumramv.gmypcpemb qspcpuw

Yrl,m.frymqskmabgqpe'kmxbeesbdp,msgmlbkmcpetmdpypebnntmferfrkpu,mbkmb
xrkgmferfpembggpygsry,mgqbgmgqpmcsksgmkqr.numgbopmfnb pwmGqpepmlbkmyrgmb
uskkpygspygmcrs pmrymgqpmk.vzp g,mpsgqpemlqpymXekwmFpeetmuebyomgpbmlsgq
XekwmbyumXskkmVbgpk,mremlqpymXekwmbyumXskkmVbgpkmepg.eypumgqpmcsksgwmYrl
lbkmgqpmgsxpmaremXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgrm rxpmbxrydmgqpx;mbyumgqpmqrfp
kgepydgqpypumlqpymsgmlbkm.yupekgrrumgqbgmqpmqbumlesggpymgrmqskmypl
xrgqpemrymgqpmr  bksrywmArembmaplmubtk,mpcpetmxreysydmcsksgmsymQsdqv.et
sy n.upumkrxpmxpygsrymramgqpmqbyukrxpmnpggpemXekwmLpkgrymqbumep pscpuw
“Smk.ffrkpmtr.mqbcpmqpbeumramgqpmqbyukrxpmnpggpemXewmAebyom q.e qsnn
qbkmlesggpymgrmXekwmLpkgry?mSm.yupekgbyumsgmlbkmbmcpetmqbyukrxpmnpggpe,
syuppuwmXewmLrruqr.kpmgrnumxpmramsgwmXewmLrruqr.kpmkblmgqpmnpggpe,mbyu
qpmkbtkmqpmypcpemkblmk. qmbmqbyukrxpmnpggpemsymqskmnsapw”

Sgmlbk,msyuppu,mbmqsdqntmfesipumnpggpewmXekwmLpkgrymqbu,mram r.ekp,
arexpumbmcpetmabcr.ebvnpmsupbmramgqpmtr.ydmxby;mbyumk. qmbmfnpbksyd
bggpygsrymlbkmbymseepkskgsvnpmferramramqskmdepbgmdrrumkpykp,mbyumbmxrkg
lpn rxpmbuusgsrymgrmpcpetmkr.e pmbyumpcpetmpjfepkksrymram rydebg.nbgsry
lqs qmqpemxbeesbdpmqbumbnepbutmkp .epuwmKqpmapngmqpekpnambmxrkg
areg.ybgpmlrxby;mbyumkqpmqbumnscpumnrydmpyr.dqmgrmoyrlmqrlmareg.ybgp
kqpmxsdqgmlpnnmvpmgqr.dqg,mlqpepmgqpmryntmepdepgmlbkmarembmfbegsbn
kpfbebgsrymaerxmaespyukmlqrkpmaespyukqsfmaremqpemqbumypcpem rrnpu,mbyu
lqrm r.numsnnmvpbemgrmfbegmlsgqmqpew

Kqpmoyplmgqbgmbgmgsxpkmkqpmx.kgmvpmxskkpu;mbyum r.numyrgmgqsyo,mlsgqr.g
fbsy,mramPxxb'kmnrksydmbmksydnpmfnpbk.ep,mremk.aapesydmbymqr.e'kmpyy.s,
aerxmgqpmlbygmramqpem rxfbysrybvnpypkk:mv.gmupbemPxxbmlbkmramyrmappvnp
 qbeb gpe;mkqpmlbkmxrepmph.bnmgrmqpemksg.bgsrymgqbymxrkgmdsenkmlr.nu
qbcpmvppy,mbyumqbumkpykp,mbyumpypedt,mbyumkfsesgkmgqbgmxsdqgmvpmqrfpu
lr.numvpbemqpemlpnnmbyumqbffsntmgqer.dqmsgkmnsggnpmusaas .ngspkmbyu
fescbgsrykwmByumgqpymgqpepmlbkmk. qm rxaregmsymgqpmcpetmpbktmuskgby pmra
EbyubnnkmaerxmQbegaspnu,mkrm rycpyspygmarempcpymkrnsgbetmapxbnpmlbnosyd,
byumsymXewmLpkgry'kmuskfrksgsrymbyum se .xkgby pk,mlqs qmlr.numxbopmgqp
bfferb qsydmkpbkrymyrmqsyueby pmgrmgqpsemkfpyusydmqbnamgqpmpcpysydkmsy
gqpmlppomgrdpgqpew

Qpemksg.bgsrymlbkmbngrdpgqpemgqpmk.vzp gmramqr.ekmramdebgsg.upmgrmXekw
Lpkgry,mbyumramxrxpygkmryntmramepdepg;mbyumqpemkbgskab gsry--qpemxrep
gqbymkbgskab gsry--qpem qppea.nmpyzrtxpyg,mlbkmkrmz.kgmbyumkrmbffbepyg,
gqbgmPxxb,mlpnnmbkmkqpmoyplmqpemabgqpe,mlbkmkrxpgsxpkmgbopymvtmk.efesip
bgmqskmvpsydmkgsnnmbvnpmgrmfsgtm'frremXskkmGbtnre,'mlqpymgqptmnpagmqpe
bgmEbyubnnkmsymgqpm pygepmrampcpetmurxpkgs m rxareg,mremkblmqpemdrmblbt
symgqpmpcpysydmbggpyupumvtmqpemfnpbkbygmq.kvbyumgrmbm beesbdpmramqpe
rlywmV.gmypcpemusumkqpmdrmlsgqr.gmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmdscsydmbmdpygnpmksdq,
byumkbtsyd,m“Bq,mfrremXskkmGbtnre!mKqpmlr.numvpmcpetmdnbumgrmkgbtw”

Gqpepmlbkmyrmep rcpesydmXskkmGbtnre--yremx. qmnsopnsqrrumram pbksydmgr
fsgtmqpe;mv.gmbmaplmlppokmver.dqgmkrxpmbnnpcsbgsrymgrmXewmLrruqr.kpw
Gqpm rxfnsxpygkmramqskmypsdqvr.ekmlpepmrcpe;mqpmlbkmyrmnrydpemgpbkpumvt
vpsydmlskqpumzrtmramkrmkreerla.nmbympcpyg;mbyumgqpmlpuusyd- bop,mlqs q
qbumvppymbmdepbgmuskgepkkmgrmqsx,mlbkmbnnmpbgm.fwmQskmrlymkgrxb q
 r.numvpbemyrgqsydmes q,mbyumqpm r.numypcpemvpnspcpmrgqpemfprfnpmgrmvp
usaapepygmaerxmqsxkpnawmLqbgmlbkm.ylqrnpkrxpmgrmqsxmqpmepdbeupumbkm.yasg
arembytmvrut;mbyumqpmqbu,mgqpeparep,mpbeypkgntmgespumgrmuskk.bupmgqpx
aerxmqbcsydmbytmlpuusyd- bopmbgmbnn,mbyumlqpymgqbgmfercpumcbsy,mbk
pbeypkgntmgespumgrmfepcpygmbytmvrut'kmpbgsydmsgwmQpmqbumvppymbgmgqp
fbsykmram ryk.ngsydmXewmFpeet,mgqpmbfrgqp bet,mrymgqpmk.vzp gwmXewmFpeet
lbkmbymsygpnnsdpyg,mdpygnpxbynsopmxby,mlqrkpmaeph.pygmcsksgkmlpepmryp
ramgqpm rxaregkmramXewmLrruqr.kp'kmnsap;mbyum.frymvpsydmbffnspumgr,mqp
 r.numyrgmv.gmb oyrlnpudpm(gqr.dqmsgmkppxpumebgqpembdbsykgmgqpmvsbk
ramsy nsybgsry)mgqbgmlpuusyd- bopmxsdqgm pegbsyntmuskbdeppmlsgq
xbyt--fpeqbfkmlsgqmxrkgmfprfnp,m.ynpkkmgbopymxrupebgpntwmLsgqmk. qmby
rfsysry,msym ryasexbgsrymramqskmrly,mXewmLrruqr.kpmqrfpumgrmsyan.py p
pcpetmcsksgremramgqpmyplntmxbeespumfbse;mv.gmkgsnnmgqpm bopmlbkmpbgpy;
byumgqpepmlbkmyrmepkgmaremqskmvpypcrnpygmypecpkmgsnnmsgmlbkmbnnmdrypw

Gqpepmlbkmbmkgebydpme.xr.emsymQsdqv.etmrambnnmgqpmnsggnpmFpeetkmvpsyd
kppymlsgqmbmkns pmramXekwmLpkgry'kmlpuusyd- bopmsymgqpsemqbyuk:mv.gmXew
Lrruqr.kpmlr.numypcpemvpnspcpmsgw



 QBFGPEmSSS


XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmaryumramkr spgtmsymqskmrlymlbtwmQpmnsopumcpetmx. qmgr
qbcpmqskmaespyukm rxpmbyumkppmqsx;mbyumaerxmcbesr.km.ysgpum b.kpk,maerx
qskmnrydmepksupy pmbgmQbegaspnu,mbyumqskmdrrumybg.ep,maerxmqskmareg.yp,
qskmqr.kp,mbyumqskmub.dqgpe,mqpm r.num rxxbyumgqpmcsksgkmramqsk
rlymnsggnpm se np,msymbmdepbgmxpbk.ep,mbkmqpmnsopuwmQpmqbumyrgmx. q
sygpe r.ekpmlsgqmbytmabxsnspkmvptryumgqbgm se np;mqskmqreeremramnbgp
qr.ek,mbyumnbedpmusyype-fbegspk,mxbupmqsxm.yasgmarembytmb h.bsygby pmv.g
k. qmbkmlr.numcsksgmqsxmrymqskmrlymgpexkwmAreg.ybgpntmaremqsx,mQsdqv.et,
sy n.usydmEbyubnnkmsymgqpmkbxpmfbeskq,mbyumUrylpnnmBvvptmsymgqpmfbeskq
buzrsysyd,mgqpmkpbgmramXewmOysdqgnpt,m rxfepqpyupumxbytmk. qwmYrg
.yaeph.pygnt,mgqer.dqmPxxb'kmfpek.bksry,mqpmqbumkrxpmramgqpm qrkpymbyu
gqpmvpkgmgrmusypmlsgqmqsx:mv.gmpcpysydmfbegspkmlpepmlqbgmqpmfepapeepu;
byu,m.ynpkkmqpmaby spumqsxkpnambgmbytmgsxpm.yph.bnmgrm rxfbyt,mgqpep
lbkmk be pntmbympcpysydmsymgqpmlppomsymlqs qmPxxbm r.numyrgmxbopm.fmb
 beu-gbvnpmaremqsxw

Epbn,mnryd-kgbyusydmepdbeumver.dqgmgqpmLpkgrykmbyumXewmOysdqgnpt;mbyumvt
XewmPngry,mbmtr.ydmxbymnscsydmbnrypmlsgqr.gmnsosydmsg,mgqpmfescsnpdp
rampj qbydsydmbytmcb bygmpcpysydmramqskmrlymvnbyomkrnsg.upmaremgqp
pnpdby spkmbyumkr spgtmramXewmLrruqr.kp'kmueblsyd-errx,mbyumgqpmkxsnpk
ramqskmnrcpntmub.dqgpe,mlbkmsymyrmubydpemramvpsydmgqerlymblbtw

Bagpemgqpkpm bxpmbmkp ryumkpg;mbxrydmgqpmxrkgm rxp-bg-bvnpmramlqrxmlpep
XekwmbyumXskkmVbgpk,mbyumXekwmDruubeu,mgqeppmnbuspkmbnxrkgmbnlbtkmbg
gqpmkpecs pmrambymsycsgbgsrymaerxmQbegaspnu,mbyumlqrmlpepmapg qpumbyu
 beespumqrxpmkrmragpy,mgqbgmXewmLrruqr.kpmgqr.dqgmsgmyrmqbeukqsfmare
psgqpemZbxpkmremgqpmqrekpkwmQbumsgmgbopymfnb pmryntmry pmbmtpbe,msg
lr.numqbcpmvppymbmdespcby pw

XekwmVbgpk,mgqpmlsurlmrambmarexpemcs bemramQsdqv.et,mlbkmbmcpetmrnu
nbut,mbnxrkgmfbkgmpcpetmgqsydmv.gmgpbmbyumh.buesnnpwmKqpmnscpumlsgqmqpe
ksydnpmub.dqgpemsymbmcpetmkxbnnmlbt,mbyumlbkm ryksupepumlsgqmbnnmgqp
epdbeumbyumepkfp gmlqs qmbmqbexnpkkmrnumnbut,m.yupemk. qm.ygrlbeu
 se .xkgby pk,m bympj sgpwmQpemub.dqgpempyzrtpumbmxrkgm.y rxxrymupdepp
ramfrf.nbesgtmarembmlrxbymypsgqpemtr.yd,mqbyukrxp,mes q,myremxbeespuw
XskkmVbgpkmkgrrumsymgqpmcpetmlrekgmfepus bxpygmsymgqpmlrenumaremqbcsyd
x. qmramgqpmf.vns mabcr.e;mbyumkqpmqbumyrmsygpnnp g.bnmk.fpesresgtmgr
xbopmbgrypxpygmgrmqpekpna,mremaesdqgpymgqrkpmlqrmxsdqgmqbgpmqpemsygr
r.glbeumepkfp gwmKqpmqbumypcpemvrbkgpumpsgqpemvpb.gtmrem npcpeypkkwmQpe
tr.gqmqbumfbkkpumlsgqr.gmuskgsy gsry,mbyumqpemxsuunpmramnsapmlbkmupcrgpu
grmgqpm bepmrambmabsnsydmxrgqpe,mbyumgqpmpyupbcr.emgrmxbopmbmkxbnn
sy rxpmdrmbkmabembkmfrkksvnpwmByumtpgmkqpmlbkmbmqbfftmlrxby,mbyumbmlrxby
lqrxmyrmrypmybxpumlsgqr.gmdrru-lsnnwmSgmlbkmqpemrlym.yscpekbnmdrru-lsnn
byum rygpygpumgpxfpemlqs qmlreopumk. qmlryupekwmKqpmnrcpumpcpetmvrut,
lbkmsygpepkgpumsympcpetmvrut'kmqbffsypkk,mh.s oksdqgpumgrmpcpetmvrut'k
xpesgk;mgqr.dqgmqpekpnambmxrkgmareg.ybgpm epbg.ep,mbyumk.eer.yupumlsgq
vnpkksydkmsymk. qmbympj pnnpygmxrgqpe,mbyumkrmxbytmdrrumypsdqvr.ek
byumaespyuk,mbyumbmqrxpmgqbgmlbygpumaremyrgqsydwmGqpmksxfns sgtmbyu
 qppea.nypkkmramqpemybg.ep,mqpem rygpygpumbyumdebgpa.nmkfsesg,mlpepmb
ep rxxpyubgsrymgrmpcpetmvrut,mbyumbmxsypmramapns sgtmgrmqpekpnawmKqpmlbk
bmdepbgmgbnopem.frymnsggnpmxbggpek,mlqs qmpjb gntmk.sgpumXewmLrruqr.kp,
a.nnmramgescsbnm rxx.ys bgsrykmbyumqbexnpkkmdrkksfw

XekwmDruubeumlbkmgqpmxskgepkkmrambmK qrrn--yrgmrambmkpxsybet,mremby
pkgbvnskqxpyg,mrembytmgqsydmlqs qmferapkkpu,msymnrydmkpygpy pkmra
epasypumyrykpykp,mgrm rxvsypmnsvpebnmb h.sepxpygkmlsgqmpnpdbygmxrebnsgt,
.frymyplmfesy sfnpkmbyumyplmktkgpxk--byumlqpepmtr.ydmnbuspkmarempyrexr.k
fbtmxsdqgmvpmk eplpumr.gmramqpbngqmbyumsygrmcbysgt--v.gmbmepbn,
qrypkg,mrnu-abkqsrypumVrbeusyd-k qrrn,mlqpepmbmepbkrybvnpmh.bygsgtmra
b  rxfnskqxpygkmlpepmkrnumbgmbmepbkrybvnpmfes p,mbyumlqpepmdsenkmxsdqg
vpmkpygmgrmvpmr.gmramgqpmlbt,mbyumk ebxvnpmgqpxkpncpkmsygrmbmnsggnp
pu. bgsry,mlsgqr.gmbytmubydpemram rxsydmvb omferusdspkwmXekwmDruubeu'k
k qrrnmlbkmsymqsdqmepf.gp--byumcpetmupkpecpunt;maremQsdqv.etmlbk
ep orypumbmfbegs .nbentmqpbngqtmkfrg:mkqpmqbumbymbxfnpmqr.kpmbyumdbeupy,
dbcpmgqpm qsnuepymfnpygtmramlqrnpkrxpmarru,mnpgmgqpxme.ymbvr.gmbmdepbg
upbnmsymgqpmk.xxpe,mbyumsymlsygpemuepkkpumgqpsem qsnvnbsykmlsgqmqpemrly
qbyukwmSgmlbkmyrmlryupemgqbgmbmgebsymramglpygtmtr.ydm r.fnpmyrlmlbnopu
bagpemqpemgrm q.e qwmKqpmlbkmbmfnbsy,mxrgqpentmosyumramlrxby,mlqr
qbumlreopumqbeumsymqpemtr.gq,mbyumyrlmgqr.dqgmqpekpnampygsgnpumgrmgqp
r  bksrybnmqrnsubtmrambmgpb-csksg;mbyumqbcsydmarexpentmrlpumx. qmgrmXew
Lrruqr.kp'kmosyuypkk,mapngmqskmfbegs .nbem nbsxmrymqpemgrmnpbcpmqpemypbg
fbenr.e,mq.ydmer.yumlsgqmaby t-lreo,mlqpypcpemkqpm r.nu,mbyumlsymremnrkp
bmaplmksjfpy pkmvtmqskmasepksupw

GqpkpmlpepmgqpmnbuspkmlqrxmPxxbmar.yumqpekpnamcpetmaeph.pygntmbvnpmgr
 rnnp g;mbyumqbfftmlbkmkqp,maremqpemabgqpe'kmkbop,msymgqpmfrlpe;mgqr.dq,
bkmabembkmkqpmlbkmqpekpnam ry peypu,msgmlbkmyrmepxputmaremgqpmbvkpy pmra
XekwmLpkgrywmKqpmlbkmupnsdqgpumgrmkppmqpemabgqpemnrrom rxaregbvnp,mbyu
cpetmx. qmfnpbkpumlsgqmqpekpnamarem rygescsydmgqsydkmkrmlpnn;mv.gmgqp
h.spgmferksydkmramgqeppmk. qmlrxpymxbupmqpemappnmgqbgmpcpetmpcpysydmkr
kfpygmlbkmsyuppumrypmramgqpmnrydmpcpysydkmkqpmqbumapbea.nntmbygs sfbgpuw

Bkmkqpmkbgmrypmxreysyd,mnrrosydmarelbeumgrmpjb gntmk. qmbm nrkpmramgqp
fepkpygmubt,mbmyrgpmlbkmver.dqgmaerxmXekwmDruubeu,meph.pkgsyd,msymxrkg
epkfp ga.nmgpexk,mgrmvpmbnnrlpumgrmvesydmXskkmKxsgqmlsgqmqpe;mbmxrkg
lpn rxpmeph.pkg:maremXskkmKxsgqmlbkmbmdsenmramkpcpygppy,mlqrxmPxxbmoypl
cpetmlpnnmvtmksdqg,mbyumqbumnrydmapngmbymsygpepkgmsy,mrymb  r.ygmra
qpemvpb.gtwmBmcpetmdeb sr.kmsycsgbgsrymlbkmepg.eypu,mbyumgqpmpcpysydmyr
nrydpemuepbupumvtmgqpmabsemxskgepkkmramgqpmxbyksryw

QbeespgmKxsgqmlbkmgqpmybg.ebnmub.dqgpemramkrxpvrutwmKrxpvrutmqbumfnb pu
qpe,mkpcpebnmtpbekmvb o,mbgmXekwmDruubeu'kmk qrrn,mbyumkrxpvrut
qbumnbgpntmebskpumqpemaerxmgqpm ryusgsrymramk qrnbemgrmgqbgmra
fbenr.e-vrbeupewmGqskmlbkmbnnmgqbgmlbkmdpypebnntmoyrlymramqpemqskgretw
Kqpmqbumyrmcsksvnpmaespyukmv.gmlqbgmqbumvppymb h.sepumbgmQsdqv.et,mbyu
lbkmyrlmz.kgmepg.eypumaerxmbmnrydmcsksgmsymgqpm r.ygetmgrmkrxpmtr.yd
nbuspkmlqrmqbumvppymbgmk qrrnmgqpepmlsgqmqpew

Kqpmlbkmbmcpetmfepggtmdsen,mbyumqpemvpb.gtmqbffpypumgrmvpmrambmkreg
lqs qmPxxbmfbegs .nbentmbuxsepuwmKqpmlbkmkqreg,mfn.xf,mbyumabse,mlsgqmb
asypmvnrrx,mvn.pmptpk,mnsdqgmqbse,mepd.nbemapbg.epk,mbyumbmnrromramdepbg
klppgypkk,mbyu,mvparepmgqpmpyumramgqpmpcpysyd,mPxxbmlbkmbkmx. qmfnpbkpu
lsgqmqpemxbyypekmbkmqpemfpekry,mbyumh.sgpmupgpexsypumgrm rygsy.pmgqp
b h.bsygby pw

Kqpmlbkmyrgmkge. omvtmbytmgqsydmepxbeobvntm npcpemsymXskkmKxsgq'k
 rycpekbgsry,mv.gmkqpmar.yumqpembngrdpgqpemcpetmpydbdsyd--yrg
sy rycpyspygntmkqt,myrgm.ylsnnsydmgrmgbno--byumtpgmkrmabemaerxmf.kqsyd,
kqplsydmkrmferfpembyumvp rxsydmbmupapepy p,mkppxsydmkrmfnpbkbygnt
debgpa.nmaremvpsydmbuxsggpumgrmQbegaspnu,mbyumkrmbegnpkkntmsxfepkkpu
vtmgqpmbffpbeby pmrampcpetmgqsydmsymkrmk.fpesrembmkgtnpmgrmlqbgmkqpmqbu
vppym.kpumgr,mgqbgmkqpmx.kgmqbcpmdrrumkpykp,mbyumupkpecpmpy r.ebdpxpygw
Py r.ebdpxpygmkqr.numvpmdscpywmGqrkpmkragmvn.pmptpk,mbyumbnnmgqrkp
ybg.ebnmdeb pk,mkqr.numyrgmvpmlbkgpumrymgqpmsyapesremkr spgtmramQsdqv.et
byumsgkm ryypjsrykwmGqpmb h.bsygby pmkqpmqbumbnepbutmarexpumlpep
.ylregqtmramqpewmGqpmaespyukmaerxmlqrxmkqpmqbumz.kgmfbegpu,mgqr.dqmcpet
drrumkregmramfprfnp,mx.kgmvpmursydmqpemqbexwmGqptmlpepmbmabxsntmramgqp
ybxpmramXbegsy,mlqrxmPxxbmlpnnmoyplmvtm qbeb gpe,mbkmepygsydmbmnbedp
abexmramXewmOysdqgnpt,mbyumepksusydmsymgqpmfbeskqmramUrylpnn--cpet
 epusgbvnt,mkqpmvpnspcpu--kqpmoyplmXewmOysdqgnptmgqr.dqgmqsdqntmra
gqpx--v.gmgqptmx.kgmvpm rbekpmbyum.yfrnskqpu,mbyumcpetm.yasgmgrmvpmgqp
sygsxbgpkmrambmdsenmlqrmlbygpumryntmbmnsggnpmxrepmoyrlnpudpmbyumpnpdby p
grmvpmh.sgpmfpeap gwm_Kqp_mlr.numyrgs pmqpe;mkqpmlr.numsxfercpmqpe;mkqp
lr.numupgb qmqpemaerxmqpemvbumb h.bsygby p,mbyumsygeru. pmqpemsygrmdrru
kr spgt;mkqpmlr.numarexmqpemrfsysrykmbyumqpemxbyypekwmSgmlr.numvpmby
sygpepkgsyd,mbyum pegbsyntmbmcpetmosyum.yupegbosyd;mqsdqntmvp rxsydmqpe
rlymksg.bgsrymsymnsap,mqpemnpsk.ep,mbyumfrlpekw

Kqpmlbkmkrmv.ktmsymbuxsesydmgqrkpmkragmvn.pmptpk,msymgbnosydmbyu
nskgpysyd,mbyumarexsydmbnnmgqpkpmk qpxpkmsymgqpmsy-vpglppyk,mgqbgmgqp
pcpysydmanplmblbtmbgmbmcpetm.y.k.bnmebgp;mbyumgqpmk.ffpe-gbvnp,mlqs q
bnlbtkm nrkpumk. qmfbegspk,mbyumaremlqs qmkqpmqbumvppym.kpumgrmksgmbyu
lbg qmgqpmu.pmgsxp,mlbkmbnnmkpgmr.gmbyumepbut,mbyumxrcpumarelbeukmgrmgqp
asep,mvparepmkqpmlbkmblbepwmLsgqmbymbnb esgtmvptryumgqpm rxxrymsxf.nkp
rambmkfsesgmlqs qmtpgmlbkmypcpemsyusaapepygmgrmgqpm epusgmramursydmpcpet
gqsydmlpnnmbyumbggpygscpnt,mlsgqmgqpmepbnmdrru-lsnnmrambmxsyumupnsdqgpu
lsgqmsgkmrlymsupbk,musumkqpmgqpymurmbnnmgqpmqryr.ekmramgqpmxpbn,mbyu
qpnfmbyumep rxxpyumgqpmxsy pum qs opymbyumk bnnrfpumrtkgpek,mlsgqmby
.edpy tmlqs qmkqpmoyplmlr.numvpmb  pfgbvnpmgrmgqpmpbentmqr.ekmbyum scsn
k e.fnpkmramgqpsemd.pkgkw

.frymk. qmr  bksrykmfrremXewmLrruqr.kp'kmappnsydkmlpepmsymkbumlbeabepw
Qpmnrcpumgrmqbcpmgqpm nrgqmnbsu,mvp b.kpmsgmqbumvppymgqpmabkqsrymramqsk
tr.gq,mv.gmqskm rycs gsrymramk.ffpekmvpsydmcpetm.ylqrnpkrxpmxbupmqsx
ebgqpemkreetmgrmkppmbytmgqsydmf.gmrymsg;mbyumlqsnpmqskmqrkfsgbnsgtmlr.nu
qbcpmlpn rxpumqskmcsksgrekmgrmpcpetmgqsyd,mqskm bepmaremgqpsemqpbngq
xbupmqsxmdespcpmgqbgmgqptmlr.numpbgw

K. qmbyrgqpemkxbnnmvbksymramgqsymde.pnmbkmqskmrlymlbkmbnnmgqbgmqpm r.nu,
lsgqmgqrer.dqmkpna-bffervbgsry,mep rxxpyu;mgqr.dqmqpmxsdqgm rykgebsy
qsxkpna,mlqsnpmgqpmnbuspkmlpepm rxaregbvntm npbesydmgqpmys pemgqsydk,mgr
kbt:

“XekwmVbgpk,mnpgmxpmferfrkpmtr.emcpyg.esydmrymrypmramgqpkpmpddkwmBympdd
vrsnpumcpetmkragmskmyrgm.ylqrnpkrxpwmKpenpm.yupekgbyukmvrsnsydmbympdd
vpggpemgqbymbytmvrutwmSmlr.numyrgmep rxxpyumbympddmvrsnpumvtmbytmvrut
pnkp;mv.gmtr.myppumyrgmvpmbaebsu,mgqptmbepmcpetmkxbnn,mtr.mkpp--rypmra
r.emkxbnnmpddkmlsnnmyrgmq.egmtr.wmXskkmVbgpk,mnpgmPxxbmqpnfmtr.mgrmb
_nsggnp_mvsgmramgbeg--bm_cpet_mnsggnpmvsgwmR.ekmbepmbnnmbffnp-gbegkwmTr.
yppumyrgmvpmbaebsumram.ylqrnpkrxpmfepkpecpkmqpepwmSmurmyrgmbucskpmgqp
 .kgbeuwmXekwmDruubeu,mlqbgmkbtmtr.mgrm_qbna_mbmdnbkkmramlsyp?mB
_kxbnn_mqbna-dnbkk,mf.gmsygrmbmg.xvnpemramlbgpe?mSmurmyrgmgqsyomsgm r.nu
uskbdeppmlsgqmtr.w”

Pxxbmbnnrlpumqpemabgqpemgrmgbno--v.gmk.ffnspumqpemcsksgrekmsymbmx. q
xrepmkbgskab gretmkgtnp,mbyumrymgqpmfepkpygmpcpysydmqbumfbegs .nbe
fnpbk.epmsymkpyusydmgqpxmblbtmqbfftwmGqpmqbffsypkkmramXskkmKxsgqmlbk
h.sgpmph.bnmgrmqpemsygpygsrykwmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlbkmkrmdepbgmbmfpekrybdp
symQsdqv.et,mgqbgmgqpmferkfp gmramgqpmsygeru. gsrymqbumdscpymbkmx. q
fbys mbkmfnpbk.ep;mv.gmgqpmq.xvnp,mdebgpa.nmnsggnpmdsenmlpygmraamlsgq
qsdqntmdebgsaspumappnsydk,mupnsdqgpumlsgqmgqpmbaabvsnsgtmlsgqmlqs qmXskk
Lrruqr.kpmqbumgepbgpumqpembnnmgqpmpcpysyd,mbyumb g.bnntmkqbopymqbyuk
lsgqmqpembgmnbkg!



 QBFGPEmSC


QbeespgmKxsgq'kmsygsxb tmbgmQbegaspnumlbkmkrrymbmkpggnpumgqsydwmH.s o
byumup supumsymqpemlbtk,mPxxbmnrkgmyrmgsxpmsymsycsgsyd,mpy r.ebdsyd,mbyu
gpnnsydmqpemgrm rxpmcpetmragpy;mbyumbkmgqpsemb h.bsygby pmsy epbkpu,mkr
usumgqpsemkbgskab gsrymsympb qmrgqpewmBkmbmlbnosydm rxfbysry,mPxxbmqbu
cpetmpbentmarepkppymqrlm.kpa.nmkqpmxsdqgmasyumqpewmSymgqbgmepkfp g
XekwmLpkgry'kmnrkkmqbumvppymsxfregbygwmQpemabgqpemypcpemlpygmvptryumgqp
kqe.vvpet,mlqpepmglrmuscsksrykmramgqpmder.yumk.aas pumqsxmaremqskmnryd
lbno,mremqskmkqreg,mbkmgqpmtpbemcbespu;mbyumksy pmXekwmLpkgry'kmxbeesbdp
qpempjpe skpmqbumvppymgrrmx. qm ryasypuwmKqpmqbumcpyg.epumry pmbnrypmgr
Ebyubnnk,mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmfnpbkbyg;mbyumbmQbeespgmKxsgq,mgqpeparep,
rypmlqrxmkqpm r.numk.xxrymbgmbytmgsxpmgrmbmlbno,mlr.numvpmbmcbn.bvnp
buusgsrymgrmqpemfescsnpdpkwmV.gmsympcpetmepkfp g,mbkmkqpmkblmxrepmra
qpe,mkqpmbffercpumqpe,mbyumlbkm ryasexpumsymbnnmqpemosyumupksdykw

Qbeespgm pegbsyntmlbkmyrgm npcpe,mv.gmkqpmqbumbmklppg,mur snp,mdebgpa.n
uskfrksgsry,mlbkmgrgbnntmaeppmaerxm ry psg,mbyumryntmupksesydmgrmvp
d.supumvtmbytmrypmkqpmnrropum.fmgrwmQpempbentmbggb qxpygmgrmqpekpna
lbkmcpetmbxsbvnp;mbyumqpemsy nsybgsrymaremdrrum rxfbyt,mbyumfrlpemra
bffep sbgsydmlqbgmlbkmpnpdbygmbyum npcpe,mkqplpumgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyr
lbygmramgbkgp,mgqr.dqmkgepydgqmram.yupekgbyusydmx.kgmyrgmvpmpjfp gpuw
Bngrdpgqpemkqpmlbkmh.sgpm rycsy pumramQbeespgmKxsgq'kmvpsydmpjb gntmgqp
tr.ydmaespyumkqpmlbygpu--pjb gntmgqpmkrxpgqsydmlqs qmqpemqrxpmeph.sepuw
K. qmbmaespyumbkmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmr.gmramgqpmh.pkgsrywmGlrmk. qm r.nu
ypcpemvpmdebygpuwmGlrmk. qmkqpmusumyrgmlbygwmSgmlbkmh.sgpmbmusaapepyg
kregmramgqsyd,mbmkpygsxpygmuskgsy gmbyumsyupfpyupygwmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmgqp
rvzp gmrambmepdbeumlqs qmqbumsgkmvbkskmsymdebgsg.upmbyumpkgppxwmQbeespg
lr.numvpmnrcpumbkmrypmgrmlqrxmkqpm r.numvpm.kpa.nwmAremXekwmLpkgrymgqpep
lbkmyrgqsydmgrmvpmuryp;maremQbeespgmpcpetmgqsydw

Qpemasekgmbggpxfgkmbgm.kpa.nypkkmlpepmsymbympyupbcr.emgrmasyumr.gmlqr
lpepmgqpmfbepygk,mv.gmQbeespgm r.numyrgmgpnnwmKqpmlbkmepbutmgrmgpnn
pcpetmgqsydmsymqpemfrlpe,mv.gmrymgqskmk.vzp gmh.pkgsrykmlpepmcbsywmPxxb
lbkmrvnsdpumgrmaby tmlqbgmkqpmnsopu--v.gmkqpm r.numypcpemvpnspcpmgqbgmsy
gqpmkbxpmksg.bgsrym_kqp_mkqr.numyrgmqbcpmusk rcpepumgqpmge.gqwmQbeespg
qbumyrmfpypgebgsrywmKqpmqbumvppymkbgskaspumgrmqpbembyumvpnspcpmz.kgmlqbg
XekwmDruubeum qrkpmgrmgpnnmqpe;mbyumnrropumyrmabegqpew

XekwmDruubeu,mbyumgqpmgpb qpek,mbyumgqpmdsenkmbyumgqpmbaabsekmra
gqpmk qrrnmsymdpypebn,marexpumybg.ebnntmbmdepbgmfbegmramgqp
 rycpekbgsry--byumv.gmaremqpemb h.bsygby pmlsgqmgqpmXbegsykmra
Bvvpt-XsnnmAbex,msgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymgqpmlqrnpwmV.gmgqpmXbegsykmr  .fspu
qpemgqr.dqgkmbmdrrumupbn;mkqpmqbumkfpygmglrmcpetmqbfftmxrygqkmlsgqmgqpx,
byumyrlmnrcpumgrmgbnomramgqpmfnpbk.epkmramqpemcsksg,mbyumupk esvp
gqpmxbytm rxaregkmbyumlryupekmramgqpmfnb pwmPxxbmpy r.ebdpumqpe
gbnobgscpypkk--bx.kpumvtmk. qmbmfs g.epmrambyrgqpemkpgmramvpsydk,
byumpyzrtsydmgqpmtr.gqa.nmksxfns sgtmlqs qm r.numkfpbomlsgqmkrmx. q
pj.ngbgsrymramXekwmXbegsy'kmqbcsydm“_glr_mfbenr.ek,mglrmcpetmdrru
fbenr.ek,msyuppu;mrypmramgqpxmh.sgpmbkmnbedpmbkmXekwmDruubeu'k
ueblsyd-errx;mbyumramqpemqbcsydmbym.ffpemxbsumlqrmqbumnscpu
ascp-byu-glpygtmtpbekmlsgqmqpe;mbyumramgqpsemqbcsydmpsdqgm rlk,mglrmra
gqpxmBnupeyptk,mbyumrypmbmnsggnpmLpn qm rl,mbmcpetmfepggtmnsggnpmLpn q
 rlmsyuppu;mbyumramXekwmXbegsy'kmkbtsydmbkmkqpmlbkmkrmaryumramsg,
sgmkqr.numvpm bnnpum_qpe_m rl;mbyumramgqpsemqbcsydmbmcpetmqbyukrxp
k.xxpe-qr.kpmsymgqpsemdbeupy,mlqpepmkrxpmubtmypjgmtpbemgqptmlpepmbnnmgr
uesyomgpb:--bmcpetmqbyukrxpmk.xxpe-qr.kp,mnbedpmpyr.dqmgrmqrnumbmuripy
fprfnpw”

Aremkrxpmgsxpmkqpmlbkmbx.kpu,mlsgqr.gmgqsyosydmvptryumgqpmsxxpusbgp
 b.kp;mv.gmbkmkqpm bxpmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmabxsntmvpggpe,mrgqpemappnsydk
berkpwmKqpmqbumgbopym.fmbmlerydmsupb,maby tsydmsgmlbkmbmxrgqpembyu
ub.dqgpe,mbmkrymbyumkry'kmlsap,mlqrmbnnmnscpumgrdpgqpe;mv.gmlqpymsg
bffpbepumgqbgmgqpmXewmXbegsy,mlqrmvrepmbmfbegmsymgqpmybeebgscp,mbyumlbk
bnlbtkmxpygsrypumlsgqmbffervbgsrymaremqskmdepbgmdrru-ybg.epmsymursyd
krxpgqsydmremrgqpe,mlbkmbmksydnpmxby;mgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyrmtr.ydmXekw
Xbegsy,myrmlsapmsymgqpm bkp;mkqpmusumk.kfp gmubydpemgrmqpemfrremnsggnp
aespyumaerxmbnnmgqskmqrkfsgbnsgtmbyumosyuypkk,mbyumgqbg,msamkqpmlpepmyrg
gbopym bepmra,mkqpmxsdqgmvpmeph.sepumgrmksyomqpekpnamarepcpew

Lsgqmgqskmsykfsesgsydmyrgsry,mqpemh.pkgsrykmsy epbkpumsymy.xvpembyu
xpbysyd;mbyumkqpmfbegs .nbentmnpumQbeespgmgrmgbnomxrepmramXewmXbegsy,
byumgqpepmlbkmpcsupygntmyrmusknsopmgrmsgwmQbeespgmlbkmcpetmepbutmgr
kfpbomramgqpmkqbepmqpmqbumqbumsymgqpsemxrrynsdqgmlbnokmbyumxpeetmpcpysyd
dbxpk;mbyumulpngmbmdrrumupbnm.frymqskmvpsydmkrmcpetmdrru-q.xr.epumbyu
rvnsdsydwmQpmqbumdrypmgqeppmxsnpkmer.yumrypmubtmsymreupemgrmvesydmqpe
krxpmlbny.gk,mvp b.kpmkqpmqbumkbsumqrlmaryumkqpmlbkmramgqpx,mbyumsy
pcpetmgqsydmpnkpmqpmlbkmkrmcpetmrvnsdsydwmQpmqbumqskmkqpfqpeu'kmkrymsygr
gqpmfbenr.emrypmysdqgmrymf.efrkpmgrmksydmgrmqpewmKqpmlbkmcpetmaryu
ramksydsydwmQpm r.numksydmbmnsggnpmqsxkpnawmKqpmvpnspcpumqpmlbkmcpet
 npcpe,mbyum.yupekgrrumpcpetmgqsydwmQpmqbumbmcpetmasypmanr o,mbyu,mlqsnp
kqpmlbkmlsgqmgqpx,mqpmqbumvppymvsumxrepmaremqskmlrrnmgqbymbytmvrutmsy
gqpm r.ygetwmKqpmvpnspcpumpcpetmvrutmkfropmlpnnmramqsxwmQskmxrgqpembyu
kskgpekmlpepmcpetmaryumramqsxwmXekwmXbegsymqbumgrnumqpemrypmubtm(byu
gqpepmlbkmbmvn.kqmbkmkqpmkbsumsg,)mgqbgmsgmlbkmsxfrkksvnpmarembytmvrut
grmvpmbmvpggpemkry,mbyumgqpeparepmkqpmlbkmk.ep,mlqpypcpemqpmxbeespu,mqp
lr.numxbopmbmdrrumq.kvbyuwmYrgmgqbgmkqpm_lbygpu_mqsxmgrmxbeetwmKqpmlbk
symyrmq.eetmbgmbnnw

“Lpnnmuryp,mXekwmXbegsy!”mgqr.dqgmPxxbwm“Tr.moyrlmlqbgmtr.mbepmbvr.gw”

“Byumlqpymkqpmqbum rxpmblbt,mXekwmXbegsymlbkmkrmcpetmosyumbkmgrmkpyu
XekwmDruubeumbmvpb.gsa.nmdrrkp--gqpmasypkgmdrrkpmXekwmDruubeumqbumpcpe
kppywmXekwmDruubeumqbumuepkkpumsgmrymbmK.yubt,mbyumbkopumbnnmgqpmgqepp
gpb qpek,mXskkmYbkq,mbyumXskkmFesy p,mbyumXskkmEs qbeukry,mgrmk.fmlsgq
qpew”

“XewmXbegsy,mSmk.ffrkp,mskmyrgmbmxbymramsyarexbgsrymvptryumgqpmnsypmra
qskmrlymv.ksypkk?mQpmurpkmyrgmepbu?”

“Rqmtpk!--gqbgmsk,myr--Smurmyrgmoyrl--v.gmSmvpnspcpmqpmqbkmepbumb
drrumupbn--v.gmyrgmlqbgmtr.mlr.numgqsyombytmgqsydmrawmQpmepbukmgqp
Bdes .ng.ebnmEpfregk,mbyumkrxpmrgqpemvrrokmgqbgmnbtmsymrypmramgqpmlsyurl
kpbgk--v.gmqpmepbukmbnnm_gqpx_mgrmqsxkpnawmV.gmkrxpgsxpkmrambympcpysyd,
vparepmlpmlpygmgrm beuk,mqpmlr.numepbumkrxpgqsydmbnr.umr.gmramgqp
PnpdbygmPjgeb gk,mcpetmpygpegbsysydwmByumSmoyrlmqpmqbkmepbumgqpmCs bemra
LbopaspnuwmQpmypcpemepbumgqpmErxby pmramgqpmArepkg,myremGqpm qsnuepymra
gqpmBvvptwmQpmqbumypcpemqpbeumramk. qmvrrokmvparepmSmxpygsrypumgqpx,mv.g
qpmskmupgpexsypumgrmdpgmgqpxmyrlmbkmkrrymbkmpcpemqpm byw”

Gqpmypjgmh.pkgsrymlbk--

“LqbgmkregmramnrrosydmxbymskmXewmXbegsy?”

“Rq!myrgmqbyukrxp--yrgmbgmbnnmqbyukrxpwmSmgqr.dqgmqsxmcpetmfnbsymbg
asekg,mv.gmSmurmyrgmgqsyomqsxmkrmfnbsymyrlwmRypmurpkmyrg,mtr.moyrl,
bagpembmgsxpwmV.gmusumtr.mypcpemkppmqsx?mQpmskmsymQsdqv.etmpcpetmyrlmbyu
gqpy,mbyumqpmskmk.epmgrmesupmgqer.dqmpcpetmlppomsymqskmlbtmgrmOsydkgryw
Qpmqbkmfbkkpumtr.mcpetmragpyw”

“Gqbgmxbtmvp,mbyumSmxbtmqbcpmkppymqsxmasagtmgsxpk,mv.gmlsgqr.gmqbcsyd
bytmsupbmramqskmybxpwmBmtr.ydmabexpe,mlqpgqpemrymqrekpvb omremrymarrg,
skmgqpmcpetmnbkgmkregmramfpekrymgrmebskpmxtm .esrksgtwmGqpmtprxbyetmbep
fep skpntmgqpmreupemramfprfnpmlsgqmlqrxmSmappnmSm bymqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmurw
Bmupdeppmremglrmnrlpe,mbyumbm epusgbvnpmbffpbeby pmxsdqgmsygpepkgmxp;
Smxsdqgmqrfpmgrmvpm.kpa.nmgrmgqpsemabxsnspkmsymkrxpmlbtmremrgqpewmV.g
bmabexpem bymyppumyrypmramxtmqpnf,mbyumsk,mgqpeparep,msymrypmkpykp,mbk
x. qmbvrcpmxtmyrgs pmbkmsympcpetmrgqpemqpmskmvpnrlmsgw”

“Grmvpmk.epwmRqmtpk!mSgmskmyrgmnsopntmtr.mkqr.numpcpemqbcpmrvkpecpumqsx;
v.gmqpmoyrlkmtr.mcpetmlpnnmsyuppu--Smxpbymvtmksdqgw”

“Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqskmvpsydmbmcpetmepkfp gbvnpmtr.ydmxbywmSmoyrl,
syuppu,mgqbgmqpmskmkr,mbyu,mbkmk. q,mlskqmqsxmlpnnwmLqbgmurmtr.msxbdsyp
qskmbdpmgrmvp?”

“Qpmlbkmar.e-byu-glpygtmgqpm8gqmramnbkgmZ.yp,mbyumxtmvsegqubtmskmgqp
23eumz.kgmbmaregysdqgmbyumbmubt'kmusaapepy p--lqs qmskmcpetmruuw”

“Ryntmar.e-byu-glpygtwmGqbgmskmgrrmtr.ydmgrmkpggnpwmQskmxrgqpemsk
fpeap gntmesdqgmyrgmgrmvpmsymbmq.eetwmGqptmkppxmcpetm rxaregbvnpmbkmgqpt
bep,mbyumsamkqpmlpepmgrmgbopmbytmfbsykmgrmxbeetmqsx,mkqpmlr.numfervbvnt
epfpygmsgwmKsjmtpbekmqpy p,msamqpm r.numxppgmlsgqmbmdrrumkregmramtr.yd
lrxbymsymgqpmkbxpmebyombkmqskmrly,mlsgqmbmnsggnpmxrypt,msgmxsdqgmvpmcpet
upksebvnpw”

“Ksjmtpbekmqpy p!mUpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqpmlr.numvpmgqsegtmtpbekmrnu!”

“Lpnn,mbyumgqbgmskmbkmpbentmbkmxrkgmxpym bymbaareumgrmxbeet,mlqrmbepmyrg
vreymgrmbymsyupfpyupy pwmXewmXbegsy,mSmsxbdsyp,mqbkmqskmareg.ypmpygsepnt
grmxbop-- byyrgmvpmbgmbnnmvparepqbyumlsgqmgqpmlrenuwmLqbgpcpemxryptmqp
xsdqgm rxpmsygrmlqpymqskmabgqpemuspu,mlqbgpcpemqskmkqbepmramgqpmabxsnt
ferfpegt,msgmsk,mSmubepmkbt,mbnnmbanrbg,mbnnmpxfnrtpumsymqskmkgr o,mbyu
krmaregq;mbyumgqr.dq,mlsgqmusnsdpy pmbyumdrrumn. o,mqpmxbtmvpmes qmsy
gsxp,msgmskmypjgmgrmsxfrkksvnpmgqbgmqpmkqr.numqbcpmepbnskpumbytmgqsyd
tpgw”

“Grmvpmk.ep,mkrmsgmskwmV.gmgqptmnscpmcpetm rxaregbvntwmGqptmqbcpmyr
syurrekmxby,mpnkpmgqptmurmyrgmlbygmarembytmgqsyd;mbyumXekwmXbegsymgbnok
ramgbosydmbmvrtmbyrgqpemtpbew”

“Smlskqmtr.mxbtmyrgmdpgmsygrmbmk ebfp,mQbeespg,mlqpypcpemqpmurpk
xbeet;--Smxpby,mbkmgrmvpsydmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqskmlsap--aremgqr.dqmqsk
kskgpek,maerxmbmk.fpesrempu. bgsry,mbepmyrgmgrmvpmbngrdpgqpemrvzp gpu
gr,msgmurpkmyrgmarnnrlmgqbgmqpmxsdqgmxbeetmbytmvrutmbgmbnnmasgmaremtr.
grmyrgs pwmGqpmxskareg.ypmramtr.emvsegqmr.dqgmgrmxbopmtr.mfbegs .nbent
 bepa.nmbkmgrmtr.embkkr sbgpkwmGqpepm bymvpmyrmur.vgmramtr.emvpsydmb
dpygnpxby'kmub.dqgpe,mbyumtr.mx.kgmk.ffregmtr.em nbsxmgrmgqbgmkgbgsrymvt
pcpetmgqsydmlsgqsymtr.emrlymfrlpe,mremgqpepmlsnnmvpmfnpygtmramfprfnpmlqr
lr.numgbopmfnpbk.epmsymupdebusydmtr.w”

“Tpk,mgrmvpmk.ep,mSmk.ffrkpmgqpepmbepwmV.gmlqsnpmSmcsksgmbgmQbegaspnu,
byumtr.mbepmkrmosyumgrmxp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mSmbxmyrgmbaebsumramlqbgmbyt
vrutm bymurw”

“Tr.m.yupekgbyumgqpmare pmramsyan.py pmfepggtmlpnn,mQbeespg;mv.gmSmlr.nu
qbcpmtr.mkrmasexntmpkgbvnskqpumsymdrrumkr spgt,mbkmgrmvpmsyupfpyupyg
pcpymramQbegaspnumbyumXskkmLrruqr.kpwmSmlbygmgrmkppmtr.mfpexbypygnt
lpnnm ryyp gpu,mbyumgrmgqbgmpyumsgmlsnnmvpmbucskbvnpmgrmqbcpmbkmaplmruu
b h.bsygby pmbkmxbtmvp;mbyu,mgqpeparep,mSmkbtmgqbgmsamtr.mkqr.numkgsnn
vpmsymgqskm r.ygetmlqpymXewmXbegsymxbeespk,mSmlskqmtr.mxbtmyrgmvpmuebly
symvtmtr.emsygsxb tmlsgqmgqpmkskgpek,mgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmgqpmlsap,
lqrmlsnnmfervbvntmvpmkrxpmxpepmabexpe'kmub.dqgpe,mlsgqr.gmpu. bgsryw”

“Grmvpmk.epwmTpkwmYrgmgqbgmSmgqsyomXewmXbegsymlr.numpcpemxbeetmbytmvrut
v.gmlqbgmqbumqbumkrxpmpu. bgsry--byumvppymcpetmlpnnmver.dqgm.fwmQrlpcpe,
Smurmyrgmxpbymgrmkpgm.fmxtmrfsysrymbdbsykgmtr.ek--byumSmbxmk.epmSmkqbnn
yrgmlskqmaremgqpmb h.bsygby pmramqskmlsapwmSmkqbnnmbnlbtkmqbcpmbmdepbg
epdbeumaremgqpmXskkmXbegsyk,mpkfp sbnntmPnsibvpgq,mbyumkqr.numvpmcpet
kreetmgrmdscpmgqpxm.f,maremgqptmbepmh.sgpmbkmlpnnmpu. bgpumbkmxpwmV.g
samqpmxbeespkmbmcpetmsdyrebyg,mc.ndbemlrxby,m pegbsyntmSmqbumvpggpemyrg
csksgmqpe,msamSm bymqpnfmsgw”

Pxxbmlbg qpumqpemgqer.dqmgqpman. g.bgsrykmramgqskmkfpp q,mbyumkblmyr
bnbexsydmktxfgrxkmramnrcpwmGqpmtr.ydmxbymqbumvppymgqpmasekgmbuxsepe,mv.g
kqpmge.kgpumgqpepmlbkmyrmrgqpemqrnu,mbyumgqbgmgqpepmlr.numvpmyrmkpesr.k
usaas .ngt,mrymQbeespg'kmksup,mgrmrffrkpmbytmaespyuntmbeebydpxpygmramqpe
rlyw

GqptmxpgmXewmXbegsymgqpmcpetmypjgmubt,mbkmgqptmlpepmlbnosydmrymgqp
UrylpnnmerbuwmQpmlbkmrymarrg,mbyumbagpemnrrosydmcpetmepkfp ga.nntmbg
qpe,mnrropumlsgqmxrkgm.yapsdypumkbgskab gsrymbgmqpem rxfbysrywmPxxbmlbk
yrgmkreetmgrmqbcpmk. qmbymrffreg.ysgtmramk.ecpt;mbyumlbnosydmbmapl
tbeukmarelbeu,mlqsnpmgqptmgbnopumgrdpgqpe,mkrrymxbupmqpemh.s omptp
k.aas spygntmb h.bsygpumlsgqmXewmErvpegmXbegsywmQskmbffpbeby pmlbkmcpet
ypbg,mbyumqpmnrropumnsopmbmkpyksvnpmtr.ydmxby,mv.gmqskmfpekrymqbumyr
rgqpembucbygbdp;mbyumlqpymqpm bxpmgrmvpm rygebkgpumlsgqmdpygnpxpy,
kqpmgqr.dqgmqpmx.kgmnrkpmbnnmgqpmder.yumqpmqbumdbsypumsymQbeespg'k
sy nsybgsrywmQbeespgmlbkmyrgmsykpyksvnpmramxbyype;mkqpmqbumcrn.ygbesnt
yrgs pumqpemabgqpe'kmdpygnpypkkmlsgqmbuxsebgsrymbkmlpnnmbkmlryupewmXew
Xbegsymnrropumbkmsamqpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbgmxbyypemlbkw

Gqptmepxbsypumv.gmbmaplmxsy.gpkmgrdpgqpe,mbkmXskkmLrruqr.kpmx.kgmyrgmvp
opfgmlbsgsyd;mbyumQbeespgmgqpym bxpme.yysydmgrmqpemlsgqmbmkxsnsydmab p,
byumsymbman.ggpemramkfsesgk,mlqs qmXskkmLrruqr.kpmqrfpumcpetmkrrymgr
 rxfrkpw

“Ryntmgqsyomramr.emqbffpysydmgrmxppgmqsx!--Qrlmcpetmruu!mSgmlbkmh.sgp
bm qby p,mqpmkbsu,mgqbgmqpmqbumyrgmdrypmer.yumvtmEbyubnnkwmQpmusumyrg
gqsyomlpmpcpemlbnopumgqskmerbuwmQpmgqr.dqgmlpmlbnopumgrlbeukmEbyubnnk
xrkgmubtkwmQpmqbkmyrgmvppymbvnpmgrmdpgmgqpmErxby pmramgqpmArepkgmtpgw
Qpmlbkmkrmv.ktmgqpmnbkgmgsxpmqpmlbkmbgmOsydkgrymgqbgmqpmh.sgpmaredrgmsg,
v.gmqpmdrpkmbdbsymgr-xreerlwmKrmcpetmruumlpmkqr.numqbffpymgrmxppg!mLpnn,
XskkmLrruqr.kp,mskmqpmnsopmlqbgmtr.mpjfp gpu?mLqbgmurmtr.mgqsyomramqsx?
Urmtr.mgqsyomqsxmkrmcpetmfnbsy?”

“Qpmskmcpetmfnbsy,m.yur.vgpunt--epxbeobvntmfnbsy:--v.gmgqbgmskmyrgqsyd
 rxfbepumlsgqmqskmpygsepmlbygmramdpygsnsgtwmSmqbumyrmesdqgmgrmpjfp g
x. q,mbyumSmusumyrgmpjfp gmx. q;mv.gmSmqbumyrmsupbmgqbgmqpm r.numvpmkr
cpetm nrlyskq,mkrmgrgbnntmlsgqr.gmbsewmSmqbumsxbdsypumqsx,mSm ryapkk,mb
updeppmremglrmypbepemdpygsnsgtw”

“Grmvpmk.ep,”mkbsumQbeespg,msymbmxregsaspumcrs p,m“qpmskmyrgmkrmdpygppn
bkmepbnmdpygnpxpyw”

“Smgqsyo,mQbeespg,mksy pmtr.emb h.bsygby pmlsgqm.k,mtr.mqbcpmvppy
epfpbgpuntmsymgqpm rxfbytmramkrxpmk. qmcpetmepbnmdpygnpxpy,mgqbgmtr.
x.kgmtr.ekpnamvpmkge. omlsgqmgqpmusaapepy pmsymXewmXbegsywmBgmQbegaspnu,
tr.mqbcpmqbumcpetmdrrumkfp sxpykmramlpnnmpu. bgpu,mlpnnmvepumxpywmS
kqr.numvpmk.efesipumsa,mbagpemkppsydmgqpx,mtr.m r.numvpmsym rxfbyt
lsgqmXewmXbegsymbdbsymlsgqr.gmfpe pscsydmqsxmgrmvpmbmcpetmsyapesre
 epbg.ep--byumebgqpemlryupesydmbgmtr.ekpnamaremqbcsydmpcpemgqr.dqgmqsx
bgmbnnmbdeppbvnpmvparepwmUrmyrgmtr.mvpdsymgrmappnmgqbgmyrl?mLpepmyrg
tr.mkge. o?mSmbxmk.epmtr.mx.kgmqbcpmvppymkge. omvtmqskmblolbeumnrrombyu
bve.fgmxbyype,mbyumgqpm.y r.gqypkkmrambmcrs pmlqs qmSmqpbeumgrmvpmlqrnnt
.yxru.nbgpumbkmSmkgrrumqpepw”

“ pegbsynt,mqpmskmyrgmnsopmXewmOysdqgnptwmQpmqbkmyrgmk. qmbmasypmbsembyu
lbtmramlbnosydmbkmXewmOysdqgnptwmSmkppmgqpmusaapepy pmfnbsympyr.dqwmV.g
XewmOysdqgnptmskmkrmcpetmasypmbmxby!”

“XewmOysdqgnpt'kmbsemskmkrmepxbeobvntmdrrumgqbgmsgmskmyrgmabsemgr
 rxfbepmXewmXbegsymlsgqm_qsx_wmTr.mxsdqgmyrgmkppmrypmsymbmq.yuepumlsgq
_dpygnpxby_mkrmfnbsyntmlesggpymbkmsymXewmOysdqgnptwmV.gmqpmskmyrgmgqp
ryntmdpygnpxbymtr.mqbcpmvppymnbgpntm.kpumgrwmLqbgmkbtmtr.mgrmXewmLpkgry
byumXewmPngry?m rxfbepmXewmXbegsymlsgqmpsgqpemram_gqpx_wm rxfbepmgqpse
xbyypemram beetsydmgqpxkpncpk;mramlbnosyd;mramkfpbosyd;mramvpsydmksnpygw
Tr.mx.kgmkppmgqpmusaapepy pw”

“Rqmtpk!--gqpepmskmbmdepbgmusaapepy pwmV.gmXewmLpkgrymskmbnxrkgmbymrnu
xbywmXewmLpkgrymx.kgmvpmvpglppymaregtmbyumasagtw”

“Lqs qmxbopkmqskmdrrumxbyypekmgqpmxrepmcbn.bvnpwmGqpmrnupembmfpekry
derlk,mQbeespg,mgqpmxrepmsxfregbygmsgmskmgqbgmgqpsemxbyypekmkqr.numyrg
vpmvbu;mgqpmxrepmdnbesydmbyumuskd.kgsydmbytmnr.uypkk,mrem rbekpypkk,mre
blolbeuypkkmvp rxpkwmLqbgmskmfbkkbvnpmsymtr.gqmskmupgpkgbvnpmsymnbgpe
bdpwmXewmXbegsymskmyrlmblolbeumbyumbve.fg;mlqbgmlsnnmqpmvpmbgmXew
Lpkgry'kmgsxpmramnsap?”

“Gqpepmskmyrmkbtsyd,msyuppu,”mepfnspumQbeespgmebgqpemkrnpxyntw

“V.gmgqpepmxbtmvpmfepggtmdrrumd.pkksydwmQpmlsnnmvpmbm rxfnpgpntmderkk,
c.ndbemabexpe,mgrgbnntmsybggpygscpmgrmbffpbeby pk,mbyumgqsyosydmra
yrgqsydmv.gmferasgmbyumnrkkw”

“Lsnnmqp,msyuppu?mGqbgmlsnnmvpmcpetmvbuw”

“Qrlmx. qmqskmv.ksypkkmpyderkkpkmqsxmbnepbutmskmcpetmfnbsymaerxmgqp
 se .xkgby pmramqskmaredpggsydmgrmsyh.sepmaremgqpmvrromtr.mep rxxpyupuw
Qpmlbkmbmdepbgmupbnmgrrma.nnmramgqpmxbeopgmgrmgqsyomrambytmgqsyd
pnkp--lqs qmskmz.kgmbkmsgmkqr.numvp,marembmgqescsydmxbywmLqbgmqbkmqpmgr
urmlsgqmvrrok?mByumSmqbcpmyrmur.vgmgqbgmqpm_lsnn_mgqescp,mbyumvpmbmcpet
es qmxbymsymgsxp--byumqskmvpsydmsnnsgpebgpmbyum rbekpmyppumyrgmuskg.ev
_.k_w”

“Smlryupemqpmusumyrgmepxpxvpemgqpmvrro”--lbkmbnnmQbeespg'kmbyklpe,mbyu
kfropymlsgqmbmupdeppmramdebcpmuskfnpbk.epmlqs qmPxxbmgqr.dqgmxsdqgmvp
kbapntmnpagmgrmsgkpnawmKqp,mgqpeparep,mkbsumyrmxrepmaremkrxpmgsxpwmQpe
ypjgmvpdsyysydmlbk,

“Symrypmepkfp g,mfpeqbfk,mXewmPngry'kmxbyypekmbepmk.fpesremgrmXew
Oysdqgnpt'kmremXewmLpkgry'kwmGqptmqbcpmxrepmdpygnpypkkwmGqptmxsdqgmvp
xrepmkbapntmqpnum.fmbkmbmfbggpeywmGqpepmskmbymrfpyypkk,mbmh.s oypkk,
bnxrkgmbmvn.ygypkkmsymXewmLpkgry,mlqs qmpcpetmvrutmnsopkmsym_qsx_,
vp b.kpmgqpepmskmkrmx. qmdrru-q.xr.emlsgqmsg--v.gmgqbgmlr.numyrgmurmgr
vpm rfspuwmYpsgqpemlr.numXewmOysdqgnpt'kmurlyesdqg,mup supu,m rxxbyusyd
kregmramxbyype,mgqr.dqmsgmk.sgkm_qsx_mcpetmlpnn;mqskmasd.ep,mbyumnrro,
byumksg.bgsrymsymnsapmkppxmgrmbnnrlmsg;mv.gmsambytmtr.ydmxbymlpepmgrmkpg
bvr.gm rftsydmqsx,mqpmlr.numyrgmvpmk.aapebvnpwmRymgqpm rygebet,mSmgqsyo
bmtr.ydmxbymxsdqgmvpmcpetmkbapntmep rxxpyupumgrmgbopmXewmPngrymbkmb
xrupnwmXewmPngrymskmdrru-q.xr.epu,m qppea.n,mrvnsdsyd,mbyumdpygnpw
Qpmkppxkmgrmxpmgrmvpmderlymfbegs .nbentmdpygnpmramnbgpwmSmurmyrgmoyrl
lqpgqpemqpmqbkmbytmupksdymramsydebgsbgsydmqsxkpnamlsgqmpsgqpemram.k,
Qbeespg,mvtmbuusgsrybnmkragypkk,mv.gmsgmkgesopkmxpmgqbgmqskmxbyypekmbep
kragpemgqbymgqptm.kpumgrmvpwmSamqpmxpbykmbytmgqsyd,msgmx.kgmvpmgrmfnpbkp
tr.wmUsumyrgmSmgpnnmtr.mlqbgmqpmkbsumramtr.mgqpmrgqpemubt?”

Kqpmgqpymepfpbgpumkrxpmlbexmfpekrybnmfebskpmlqs qmkqpmqbumueblymaerxmXew
Pngry,mbyumyrlmusuma.nnmz.kgs pmgr;mbyumQbeespgmvn.kqpumbyumkxsnpu,mbyu
kbsumkqpmqbumbnlbtkmgqr.dqgmXewmPngrymcpetmbdeppbvnpw

XewmPngrymlbkmgqpmcpetmfpekrymasjpumrymvtmPxxbmaremuescsydmgqpmtr.yd
abexpemr.gmramQbeespg'kmqpbuwmKqpmgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numvpmbympj pnnpyg
xbg q;mbyumryntmgrrmfbnfbvntmupksebvnp,mybg.ebn,mbyumfervbvnp,maremqpe
grmqbcpmx. qmxpesgmsymfnbyysydmsgwmKqpmapbepumsgmlbkmlqbgmpcpetmvrut
pnkpmx.kgmgqsyomrambyumfepus gwmSgmlbkmyrgmnsopnt,mqrlpcpe,mgqbgmbyt
vrutmkqr.numqbcpmph.bnnpumqpemsymgqpmubgpmramgqpmfnby,mbkmsgmqbu
pygpepumqpemvebsymu.esydmgqpmcpetmasekgmpcpysydmramQbeespg'km rxsydmgr
QbegaspnuwmGqpmnrydpemkqpm ryksupepumsg,mgqpmdepbgpemlbkmqpemkpykp
ramsgkmpjfpuspy twmXewmPngry'kmksg.bgsrymlbkmxrkgmk.sgbvnp,mh.sgpmgqp
dpygnpxbymqsxkpna,mbyumlsgqr.gmnrlm ryypjsryk;mbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp,myrgmra
bytmabxsntmgqbgm r.numabsentmrvzp gmgrmgqpmur.vga.nmvsegqmramQbeespgw
Qpmqbumbm rxaregbvnpmqrxpmaremqpe,mbyumPxxbmsxbdsypumbmcpetmk.aas spyg
sy rxp;maremgqr.dqmgqpmcs bebdpmramQsdqv.etmlbkmyrgmnbedp,mqpmlbkmoyrly
grmqbcpmkrxpmsyupfpyupygmferfpegt;mbyumkqpmgqr.dqgmcpetmqsdqntmramqsx
bkmbmdrru-q.xr.epu,mlpnn-xpbysyd,mepkfp gbvnpmtr.ydmxby,mlsgqr.gmbyt
upas spy tmram.kpa.nm.yupekgbyusydmremoyrlnpudpmramgqpmlrenuw

Kqpmqbumbnepbutmkbgskaspumqpekpnamgqbgmqpmgqr.dqgmQbeespgmbmvpb.gsa.n
dsen,mlqs qmkqpmge.kgpu,mlsgqmk. qmaeph.pygmxppgsydkmbgmQbegaspnu,mlbk
ar.yubgsrympyr.dqmrymqskmksup;mbyumrymQbeespg'kmgqpepm r.numvpmnsggnp
ur.vgmgqbgmgqpmsupbmramvpsydmfepapeepumvtmqsxmlr.numqbcpmbnnmgqpm.k.bn
lpsdqgmbyumpaas b twmByumqpmlbkmepbnntmbmcpetmfnpbksydmtr.ydmxby,mb
tr.ydmxbymlqrxmbytmlrxbymyrgmabkgsusr.kmxsdqgmnsopwmQpmlbkmep orypumcpet
qbyukrxp;mqskmfpekrymx. qmbuxsepumsymdpypebn,mgqr.dqmyrgmvtmqpe,
gqpepmvpsydmbmlbygmrampnpdby pmramapbg.epmlqs qmkqpm r.numyrgmuskfpykp
lsgq:--v.gmgqpmdsenmlqrm r.numvpmdebgsaspumvtmbmErvpegmXbegsy'kmesusyd
bvr.gmgqpm r.ygetmgrmdpgmlbny.gkmaremqpemxsdqgmcpetmlpnnmvpm ryh.pepumvt
XewmPngry'kmbuxsebgsryw



 QBFGPEmC


“Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqbgmtr.emrfsysrymxbtmvp,mXekwmLpkgry,”mkbsumXew
Oysdqgnpt,m“ramgqskmdepbgmsygsxb tmvpglppymPxxbmbyumQbeespgmKxsgq,mv.gmS
gqsyomsgmbmvbumgqsydw”

“Bmvbumgqsyd!mUrmtr.mepbnntmgqsyomsgmbmvbumgqsyd?--lqtmkr?”

“Smgqsyomgqptmlsnnmypsgqpemramgqpxmurmgqpmrgqpembytmdrruw”

“Tr.mk.efesipmxp!mPxxbmx.kgmurmQbeespgmdrru:mbyumvtmk.ffntsydmqpemlsgqmb
yplmrvzp gmramsygpepkg,mQbeespgmxbtmvpmkbsumgrmurmPxxbmdrruwmSmqbcpmvppy
kppsydmgqpsemsygsxb tmlsgqmgqpmdepbgpkgmfnpbk.epwmQrlmcpetmusaapepygnt
lpmappn!--Yrgmgqsyomgqptmlsnnmurmpb qmrgqpembytmdrru!mGqskmlsnn
 pegbsyntmvpmgqpmvpdsyysydmramrypmramr.emh.beepnkmbvr.gmPxxb,mXew
Oysdqgnptw”

“Fpeqbfkmtr.mgqsyomSmbxm rxpmrymf.efrkpmgrmh.beepnmlsgqmtr.,moyrlsyd
Lpkgrymgrmvpmr.g,mbyumgqbgmtr.mx.kgmkgsnnmasdqgmtr.emrlymvbggnpw”

“XewmLpkgrymlr.num.yur.vgpuntmk.ffregmxp,msamqpmlpepmqpep,maremqpmgqsyok
pjb gntmbkmSmurmrymgqpmk.vzp gwmLpmlpepmkfpbosydmramsgmryntmtpkgpeubt,
byumbdeppsydmqrlmareg.ybgpmsgmlbkmaremPxxb,mgqbgmgqpepmkqr.numvpmk. qmb
dsenmsymQsdqv.etmaremqpemgrmbkkr sbgpmlsgqwmXewmOysdqgnpt,mSmkqbnnmyrg
bnnrlmtr.mgrmvpmbmabsemz.udpmsymgqskm bkpwmTr.mbepmkrmx. qm.kpumgrmnscp
bnryp,mgqbgmtr.murmyrgmoyrlmgqpmcbn.pmrambm rxfbysry;mbyu,mfpeqbfkmyr
xbym bymvpmbmdrrumz.udpmramgqpm rxaregmbmlrxbymappnkmsymgqpmkr spgtmra
rypmramqpemrlymkpj,mbagpemvpsydm.kpumgrmsgmbnnmqpemnsapwmSm bymsxbdsyp
tr.emrvzp gsrymgrmQbeespgmKxsgqwmKqpmskmyrgmgqpmk.fpesremtr.ydmlrxby
lqs qmPxxb'kmaespyumr.dqgmgrmvpwmV.gmrymgqpmrgqpemqbyu,mbkmPxxbmlbygk
grmkppmqpemvpggpemsyarexpu,msgmlsnnmvpmbymsyu. pxpygmgrmqpemgrmepbumxrep
qpekpnawmGqptmlsnnmepbumgrdpgqpewmKqpmxpbykmsg,mSmoyrlw”

“Pxxbmqbkmvppymxpbysydmgrmepbumxrepmpcpemksy pmkqpmlbkmglpncpmtpbekmrnuw
Smqbcpmkppymbmdepbgmxbytmnskgkmramqpemueblsyd-.fmbgmcbesr.kmgsxpkmra
vrrokmgqbgmkqpmxpbygmgrmepbumepd.nbentmgqer.dq--byumcpetmdrrumnskgk
gqptmlpep--cpetmlpnnm qrkpy,mbyumcpetmypbgntmbeebydpu--krxpgsxpk
bnfqbvpgs bnnt,mbyumkrxpgsxpkmvtmkrxpmrgqpeme.npwmGqpmnskgmkqpmuepl
.fmlqpymryntmar.egppy--Smepxpxvpemgqsyosydmsgmusumqpemz.udxpygmkrmx. q
 epusg,mgqbgmSmfepkpecpumsgmkrxpmgsxp;mbyumSmubepmkbtmkqpmxbtmqbcpmxbup
r.gmbmcpetmdrrumnskgmyrlwmV.gmSmqbcpmurypmlsgqmpjfp gsydmbytm r.ekpmra
kgpbutmepbusydmaerxmPxxbwmKqpmlsnnmypcpemk.vxsgmgrmbytmgqsyd
eph.sesydmsyu.kgetmbyumfbgspy p,mbyumbmk.vzp gsrymramgqpmaby tmgrmgqp
.yupekgbyusydwmLqpepmXskkmGbtnremabsnpumgrmkgsx.nbgp,mSmxbtmkbapnt
baasexmgqbgmQbeespgmKxsgqmlsnnmurmyrgqsydw--Tr.mypcpem r.numfpek.bupmqpe
grmepbumqbnamkrmx. qmbkmtr.mlskqpuw--Tr.moyrlmtr.m r.numyrgw”

“Smubepmkbt,”mepfnspumXekwmLpkgry,mkxsnsyd,m“gqbgmSmgqr.dqgmkr
_gqpy_;--v.gmksy pmlpmqbcpmfbegpu,mSm bymypcpemepxpxvpemPxxb'kmrxsggsyd
grmurmbytmgqsydmSmlskqpuw”

“Gqpepmskmqbeuntmbytmupksesydmgrmepaepkqmk. qmbmxpxretmbkm_gqbg_,”--kbsu
XewmOysdqgnpt,mappnsydnt;mbyumarembmxrxpygmremglrmqpmqbumurypwm“V.gmS,”
mqpmkrrymbuupu,m“lqrmqbcpmqbumyrmk. qm qbexmgqerlymrcpemxtmkpykpk,mx.kg
kgsnnmkpp,mqpbe,mbyumepxpxvpewmPxxbmskmkfrsnpumvtmvpsydmgqpm npcpepkg
ramqpemabxsntwmBgmgpymtpbekmrnu,mkqpmqbumgqpmxskareg.ypmramvpsydmbvnpmgr
byklpemh.pkgsrykmlqs qmf.iinpumqpemkskgpembgmkpcpygppywmKqpmlbkmbnlbtk
h.s ombyumbkk.epu:mSkbvpnnbmknrlmbyumusaasupygwmByumpcpemksy pmkqp
lbkmglpncp,mPxxbmqbkmvppymxskgepkkmramgqpmqr.kpmbyumramtr.mbnnwmSymqpe
xrgqpemkqpmnrkgmgqpmryntmfpekrymbvnpmgrm rfpmlsgqmqpewmKqpmsyqpesgkmqpe
xrgqpe'kmgbnpygk,mbyumx.kgmqbcpmvppym.yupemk.vzp gsrymgrmqpew”

“Smkqr.numqbcpmvppymkreet,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mgrmvpmupfpyupygmrym_tr.e_
ep rxxpyubgsry,mqbumSmh.sggpumXewmLrruqr.kp'kmabxsntmbyumlbygpumbyrgqpe
ksg.bgsry;mSmurmyrgmgqsyomtr.mlr.numqbcpmkfropymbmdrrumlreumaremxpmgr
bytmvrutwmSmbxmk.epmtr.mbnlbtkmgqr.dqgmxpm.yasgmaremgqpmraas pmSmqpnuw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumqp,mkxsnsydwm“Tr.mbepmvpggpemfnb pum_qpep_;mcpetmasgmaremb
lsap,mv.gmyrgmbgmbnnmarembmdrcpeypkkwmV.gmtr.mlpepmfepfbesydmtr.ekpnamgr
vpmbympj pnnpygmlsapmbnnmgqpmgsxpmtr.mlpepmbgmQbegaspnuwmTr.mxsdqg
yrgmdscpmPxxbmk. qmbm rxfnpgpmpu. bgsrymbkmtr.emfrlpekmlr.numkppxmgr
ferxskp;mv.gmtr.mlpepmep pscsydmbmcpetmdrrumpu. bgsrymaerxm_qpe_,mrymgqp
cpetmxbgpesbnmxbgesxrysbnmfrsygmramk.vxsggsydmtr.emrlymlsnn,mbyumursyd
bkmtr.mlpepmvsu;mbyumsamLpkgrymqbumbkopumxpmgrmep rxxpyumqsxmbmlsap,mS
kqr.num pegbsyntmqbcpmybxpumXskkmGbtnrew”

“Gqbyomtr.wmGqpepmlsnnmvpmcpetmnsggnpmxpesgmsymxbosydmbmdrrumlsapmgr
k. qmbmxbymbkmXewmLpkgryw”

“Lqt,mgrmrlymgqpmge.gq,mSmbxmbaebsumtr.mbepmebgqpemgqerlymblbt,mbyumgqbg
lsgqmpcpetmuskfrksgsrymgrmvpbe,mgqpepmlsnnmvpmyrgqsydmgrmvpmvreypwmLp
lsnnmyrgmupkfbse,mqrlpcpewmLpkgrymxbtmderlm erkkmaerxmgqpmlbygryypkkmra
 rxareg,mremqskmkrymxbtmfnbd.pmqsxw”

“Smqrfpmyrgm_gqbg_w--SgmskmyrgmnsopntwmYr,mXewmOysdqgnpt,murmyrg
arepgpnnmcpjbgsrymaerxmgqbgmh.begpew”

“YrgmS,msyuppuwmSmryntmybxpmfrkksvsnsgspkwmSmurmyrgmfepgpyumgrmPxxb'k
dpys.kmaremarepgpnnsydmbyumd.pkksydwmSmqrfp,mlsgqmbnnmxtmqpbeg,mgqp
tr.ydmxbymxbtmvpmbmLpkgrymsymxpesg,mbyumbm q.e qsnnmsymareg.ypw--V.g
QbeespgmKxsgq--Smqbcpmyrgmqbnamurypmbvr.gmQbeespgmKxsgqwmSmgqsyomqpemgqp
cpetmlrekgmkregmram rxfbysrymgqbgmPxxbm r.numfrkksvntmqbcpwmKqpmoyrlk
yrgqsydmqpekpna,mbyumnrrokm.frymPxxbmbkmoyrlsydmpcpetmgqsydwmKqpmskmb
anbggpepemsymbnnmqpemlbtk;mbyumkrmx. qmgqpmlrekp,mvp b.kpm.yupksdypuw
Qpemsdyreby pmskmqr.entmanbggpetwmQrlm bymPxxbmsxbdsypmkqpmqbkmbyt
gqsydmgrmnpbeymqpekpna,mlqsnpmQbeespgmskmfepkpygsydmk. qmbmupnsdqga.n
syapesresgt?mByumbkmaremQbeespg,mSmlsnnmcpyg.epmgrmkbtmgqbgm_kqp_m byyrg
dbsymvtmgqpmb h.bsygby pwmQbegaspnumlsnnmryntmf.gmqpemr.gmram ry psg
lsgqmbnnmgqpmrgqpemfnb pkmkqpmvpnrydkmgrwmKqpmlsnnmderlmz.kgmepasypu
pyr.dqmgrmvpm.y rxaregbvnpmlsgqmgqrkpmbxrydmlqrxmvsegqmbyum se .xkgby pk
qbcpmfnb pumqpemqrxpwmSmbxmx. qmxskgbopymsamPxxb'kmur gesypkmdscpmbyt
kgepydgqmramxsyu,mremgpyumbgmbnnmgrmxbopmbmdsenmbubfgmqpekpnamebgsrybnnt
grmgqpmcbespgspkmramqpemksg.bgsrymsymnsapw--Gqptmryntmdscpmbmnsggnp
frnskqw”

“Smpsgqpemupfpyumxrepm.frymPxxb'kmdrrumkpykpmgqbymtr.mur,mrembxmxrep
byjsr.kmaremqpemfepkpygm rxareg;maremSm byyrgmnbxpygmgqpmb h.bsygby pw
Qrlmlpnnmkqpmnrropumnbkgmysdqg!”

“Rq!mtr.mlr.numebgqpemgbnomramqpemfpekrymgqbymqpemxsyu,mlr.numtr.?mCpet
lpnn;mSmkqbnnmyrgmbggpxfgmgrmupytmPxxb'kmvpsydmfepggtw”

“Fepggt!mkbtmvpb.gsa.nmebgqpewm bymtr.msxbdsypmbytmgqsydmypbepemfpeap g
vpb.gtmgqbymPxxbmbngrdpgqpe--ab pmbyumasd.ep?”

“SmurmyrgmoyrlmlqbgmSm r.numsxbdsyp,mv.gmSm ryapkkmgqbgmSmqbcpmkpnurx
kppymbmab pmremasd.epmxrepmfnpbksydmgrmxpmgqbymqpekwmV.gmSmbxmbmfbegsbn
rnumaespyuw”

“K. qmbymptp!--gqpmge.pmqbinpmptp--byumkrmvesnnsbyg!mepd.nbemapbg.epk,
rfpym r.ygpyby p,mlsgqmbm rxfnpjsry!mrq!mlqbgmbmvnrrxmrama.nnmqpbngq,
byumk. qmbmfepggtmqpsdqgmbyumksip;mk. qmbmasexmbyum.fesdqgmasd.ep!
Gqpepmskmqpbngq,myrgmxpepntmsymqpemvnrrx,mv.gmsymqpembse,mqpemqpbu,mqpe
dnby pwmRypmqpbekmkrxpgsxpkmrambm qsnumvpsydm'gqpmfs g.epmramqpbngq;'
yrl,mPxxbmbnlbtkmdscpkmxpmgqpmsupbmramvpsydmgqpm rxfnpgpmfs g.epmra
derly-.fmqpbngqwmKqpmskmnrcpnsypkkmsgkpnawmXewmOysdqgnpt,mskmyrgmkqp?”

“Smqbcpmyrgmbmab.ngmgrmasyumlsgqmqpemfpekry,”mqpmepfnspuwm“Smgqsyomqpe
bnnmtr.mupk esvpwmSmnrcpmgrmnrrombgmqpe;mbyumSmlsnnmbuumgqskmfebskp,
gqbgmSmurmyrgmgqsyomqpemfpekrybnntmcbsywm ryksupesydmqrlmcpetmqbyukrxp
kqpmsk,mkqpmbffpbekmgrmvpmnsggnpmr  .fspumlsgqmsg;mqpemcbysgtmnspk
byrgqpemlbtwmXekwmLpkgry,mSmbxmyrgmgrmvpmgbnopumr.gmramxtmusknsopmra
QbeespgmKxsgq,mremxtmuepbumramsgkmursydmgqpxmvrgqmqbexw”

“ByumS,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbxmph.bnntmkgr.gmsymxtm ryasupy pmramsgkmyrg
ursydmgqpxmbytmqbexwmLsgqmbnnmupbemPxxb'kmnsggnpmab.ngk,mkqpmskmby
pj pnnpygm epbg.epwmLqpepmkqbnnmlpmkppmbmvpggpemub.dqgpe,mrembmosyupe
kskgpe,mrembmge.pemaespyu?mYr,myr;mkqpmqbkmh.bnsgspkmlqs qmxbtmvp
ge.kgpu;mkqpmlsnnmypcpemnpbumbytmrypmepbnntmleryd;mkqpmlsnnmxbopmyr
nbkgsydmvn.yupe;mlqpepmPxxbmpeekmry p,mkqpmskmsymgqpmesdqgmbmq.yuepu
gsxpkw”

“Cpetmlpnn;mSmlsnnmyrgmfnbd.pmtr.mbytmxrepwmPxxbmkqbnnmvpmbymbydpn,mbyu
Smlsnnmoppfmxtmkfnppymgrmxtkpnamgsnnm qeskgxbkmvesydkmZrqymbyumSkbvpnnbw
ZrqymnrcpkmPxxbmlsgqmbmepbkrybvnpmbyumgqpeparepmyrgmbmvnsyumbaap gsry,
byumSkbvpnnbmbnlbtkmgqsyokmbkmqpmurpk;mpj pfgmlqpymqpmskmyrgmh.sgp
aesdqgpypumpyr.dqmbvr.gmgqpm qsnuepywmSmbxmk.epmramqbcsydmgqpsemrfsysryk
lsgqmxpw”

“Smoyrlmgqbgmtr.mbnnmnrcpmqpemepbnntmgrrmlpnnmgrmvpm.yz.kgmrem.yosyu;
v.gmpj .kpmxp,mXewmOysdqgnpt,msamSmgbopmgqpmnsvpegtm(Sm ryksupemxtkpna,
tr.moyrl,mbkmqbcsydmkrxplqbgmramgqpmfescsnpdpmramkfpp qmgqbgmPxxb'k
xrgqpemxsdqgmqbcpmqbu)mgqpmnsvpegtmramqsygsydmgqbgmSmurmyrgmgqsyombyt
frkksvnpmdrrum bymbeskpmaerxmQbeespgmKxsgq'kmsygsxb tmvpsydmxbupmb
xbggpemramx. qmusk .kksrymbxrydmtr.wmFebtmpj .kpmxp;mv.gmk.ffrksydmbyt
nsggnpmsy rycpyspy pmxbtmvpmbffepqpyupumaerxmgqpmsygsxb t,msgm byyrgmvp
pjfp gpumgqbgmPxxb,mb  r.ygbvnpmgrmyrvrutmv.gmqpemabgqpe,mlqrmfpeap gnt
bffercpkmgqpmb h.bsygby p,mkqr.numf.gmbympyumgrmsg,mkrmnrydmbkmsgmskmb
kr.e pmramfnpbk.epmgrmqpekpnawmSgmqbkmvppymkrmxbytmtpbekmxtmfercsy pmgr
dscpmbucs p,mgqbgmtr.m byyrgmvpmk.efesipu,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbgmgqskmnsggnp
epxbsykmramraas pw”

“Yrgmbgmbnn,”m espumqp;m“Smbxmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmtr.maremsgwmSgmskmcpet
drrumbucs p,mbyumsgmkqbnnmqbcpmbmvpggpemabgpmgqbymtr.embucs pmqbkmragpy
ar.yu;maremsgmkqbnnmvpmbggpyupumgrw”

“XekwmZrqymOysdqgnptmskmpbksntmbnbexpu,mbyumxsdqgmvpmxbupm.yqbfftmbvr.g
qpemkskgpew”

“Vpmkbgskaspu,”mkbsumqp,m“Smlsnnmyrgmebskpmbytmr.g etwmSmlsnnmoppfmxt
snn-q.xr.emgrmxtkpnawmSmqbcpmbmcpetmksy pepmsygpepkgmsymPxxbwmSkbvpnnb
urpkmyrgmkppxmxrepmxtmkskgpe;mqbkmypcpempj sgpumbmdepbgpemsygpepkg;
fpeqbfkmqbeuntmkrmdepbgwmGqpepmskmbymbyjspgt,mbm .esrksgtmsymlqbgmryp
appnkmaremPxxbwmSmlryupemlqbgmlsnnmvp rxpmramqpe!”

“KrmurmS,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrymdpygnt,m“cpetmx. qw”

“Kqpmbnlbtkmup nbepkmkqpmlsnnmypcpemxbeet,mlqs q,mram r.ekp,mxpbykmz.kg
yrgqsydmbgmbnnwmV.gmSmqbcpmyrmsupbmgqbgmkqpmqbkmtpgmpcpemkppymbmxbymkqp
 bepumarewmSgmlr.numyrgmvpmbmvbumgqsydmaremqpemgrmvpmcpetmx. qmsymnrcp
lsgqmbmferfpemrvzp gwmSmkqr.numnsopmgrmkppmPxxbmsymnrcp,mbyumsymkrxp
ur.vgmrambmepg.ey;msgmlr.numurmqpemdrruwmV.gmgqpepmskmyrvrutmqpepbvr.gk
grmbggb qmqpe;mbyumkqpmdrpkmkrmkpnurxmaerxmqrxpw”

“Gqpepmurpk,msyuppu,mkppxmbkmnsggnpmgrmgpxfgmqpemgrmvepbomqpemepkrn.gsry
bgmfepkpyg,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,m“bkm bymlpnnmvp;mbyumlqsnpmkqpmskmkr
qbfftmbgmQbegaspnu,mSm byyrgmlskqmqpemgrmvpmarexsydmbytmbggb qxpygmlqs q
lr.numvpm epbgsydmk. qmusaas .ngspkmrymfrremXewmLrruqr.kp'kmb  r.ygwmS
urmyrgmep rxxpyumxbgesxrytmbgmfepkpygmgrmPxxb,mgqr.dqmSmxpbymyrmknsdqg
grmgqpmkgbgp,mSmbkk.epmtr.w”

Fbegmramqpemxpbysydmlbkmgrm ry pbnmkrxpmabcr.esgpmgqr.dqgkmramqpemrly
byumXewmLpkgry'kmrymgqpmk.vzp g,mbkmx. qmbkmfrkksvnpwmGqpepmlpepmlskqpk
bgmEbyubnnkmepkfp gsydmPxxb'kmupkgsyt,mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmupksebvnpmgr
qbcpmgqpxmk.kfp gpu;mbyumgqpmh.spgmgebyksgsrymlqs qmXewmOysdqgnptmkrry
bagpelbeukmxbupmgrm“LqbgmurpkmLpkgrymgqsyomramgqpmlpbgqpe;mkqbnnmlpmqbcp
ebsy?”m rycsy pumqpemgqbgmqpmqbumyrgqsydmxrepmgrmkbtmremk.exskpmbvr.g
Qbegaspnuw



 QBFGPEmCS


Pxxbm r.numyrgmappnmbmur.vgmramqbcsydmdscpymQbeespg'kmaby tmbmferfpe
usep gsrymbyumebskpumgqpmdebgsg.upmramqpemtr.ydmcbysgtmgrmbmcpetmdrru
f.efrkp,maremkqpmar.yumqpemup supuntmxrepmkpyksvnpmgqbymvparepmramXew
Pngry'kmvpsydmbmepxbeobvntmqbyukrxpmxby,mlsgqmxrkgmbdeppbvnpmxbyypek;
byumbkmkqpmqbumyrmqpksgbgsrymsymarnnrlsydm.fmgqpmbkk.eby pmramqsk
buxsebgsrymvtmbdeppbvnpmqsygk,mkqpmlbkmkrrymfepggtm ryasupygmram epbgsyd
bkmx. qmnsosydmrymQbeespg'kmksup,mbkmgqpepm r.numvpmbytmr  bksrymarew
Kqpmlbkmh.sgpm rycsy pumramXewmPngry'kmvpsydmsymgqpmabsepkgmlbtmra
abnnsydmsymnrcp,msamyrgmsymnrcpmbnepbutwmKqpmqbumyrmk e.fnpmlsgqmepdbeu
grmqsxwmQpmgbnopumramQbeespg,mbyumfebskpumqpemkrmlbexnt,mgqbgmkqpm r.nu
yrgmk.ffrkpmbytmgqsydmlbygsydmlqs qmbmnsggnpmgsxpmlr.numyrgmbuuwmQsk
fpe pfgsrymramgqpmkgesosydmsxfercpxpygmramQbeespg'kmxbyype,mksy pmqpe
sygeru. gsrymbgmQbegaspnu,mlbkmyrgmrypmramgqpmnpbkgmbdeppbvnpmferrakmra
qskmderlsydmbggb qxpygw

“Tr.mqbcpmdscpymXskkmKxsgqmbnnmgqbgmkqpmeph.sepu,”mkbsumqp;m“tr.mqbcp
xbupmqpemdeb pa.nmbyumpbktwmKqpmlbkmbmvpb.gsa.nm epbg.epmlqpymkqp
 bxpmgrmtr.,mv.g,msymxtmrfsysry,mgqpmbggeb gsrykmtr.mqbcpmbuupumbep
syasysgpntmk.fpesremgrmlqbgmkqpmep pscpumaerxmybg.epw”

“Smbxmdnbumtr.mgqsyomSmqbcpmvppym.kpa.nmgrmqpe;mv.gmQbeespgmryntmlbygpu
ueblsydmr.g,mbyumep pscsydmbmapl,mcpetmaplmqsygkwmKqpmqbumbnnmgqp
ybg.ebnmdeb pmramklppgypkkmramgpxfpembyumbegnpkkypkkmsymqpekpnawmSmqbcp
urypmcpetmnsggnpw”

“Samsgmlpepmbuxskksvnpmgrm rygebus gmbmnbut,”mkbsumgqpmdbnnbygmXew
Pngry--

“Smqbcpmfpeqbfkmdscpymqpembmnsggnpmxrepmup sksrymram qbeb gpe,mqbcp
gb.dqgmqpemgrmgqsyomrymfrsygkmlqs qmqbumyrgmabnnpymsymqpemlbtmvparepw”

“Pjb gntmkr;mgqbgmskmlqbgmfesy sfbnntmkgesopkmxpwmKrmx. qmk.fpebuupu
up sksrymram qbeb gpe!mKosna.nmqbkmvppymgqpmqbyu!”

“Depbgmqbkmvppymgqpmfnpbk.ep,mSmbxmk.epwmSmypcpemxpgmlsgqmbmuskfrksgsry
xrepmge.ntmbxsbvnpw”

“Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramsgw”mByumsgmlbkmkfropymlsgqmbmkregmramksdqsyd
bysxbgsry,mlqs qmqbumbmcbkgmupbnmramgqpmnrcpewmKqpmlbkmyrgmnpkkmfnpbkpu
byrgqpemubtmlsgqmgqpmxbyypemsymlqs qmqpmkp ryupumbmk.uupymlskqmramqpek,
grmqbcpmQbeespg'kmfs g.epw

“Usumtr.mpcpemqbcpmtr.emnsopypkkmgbopy,mQbeespg?”mkbsumkqp:m“usumtr.
pcpemksgmaremtr.emfs g.ep?”

Qbeespgmlbkmrymgqpmfrsygmramnpbcsydmgqpmerrx,mbyumryntmkgrfgmgrmkbt,
lsgqmbmcpetmsygpepkgsydmybscpgp,

“Rq!mupbe,myr,mypcpew”

Yrmkrrypemlbkmkqpmr.gmramksdqg,mgqbymPxxbmpj nbsxpu,

“Lqbgmbympjh.sksgpmfrkkpkksrymbmdrrumfs g.epmramqpemlr.numvp!mSmlr.nu
dscpmbytmxryptmaremsgwmSmbnxrkgmnrydmgrmbggpxfgmqpemnsopypkkmxtkpnaw
Tr.murmyrgmoyrlmsgmSmubepmkbt,mv.gmglrmremgqeppmtpbekmbdrmSmqbumbmdepbg
fbkksrymaremgbosydmnsopypkkpk,mbyumbggpxfgpumkpcpebnmramxtmaespyuk,mbyu
lbkmgqr.dqgmgrmqbcpmbmgrnpebvnpmptpmsymdpypebnwmV.gmaerxmrypm b.kpmre
byrgqpe,mSmdbcpmsgm.fmsymuskd.kgwmV.gmepbnnt,mSm r.numbnxrkgmcpyg.ep,
samQbeespgmlr.numksgmgrmxpwmSgmlr.numvpmk. qmbmupnsdqgmgrmqbcpmqpe
fs g.ep!”

“Npgmxpmpygepbgmtr.,”m espumXewmPngry;m“sgmlr.numsyuppumvpmbmupnsdqg!
Npgmxpmpygepbgmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgrmpjpe skpmkrm qbexsydmbmgbnpyg
symabcr.emramtr.emaespyuwmSmoyrlmlqbgmtr.emueblsydkmbepwmQrlm r.nu
tr.mk.ffrkpmxpmsdyrebyg?mSkmyrgmgqskmerrxmes qmsymkfp sxpykmramtr.e
nbyuk bfpkmbyumanrlpek;mbyumqbkmyrgmXekwmLpkgrymkrxpmsysxsgbvnp
asd.ep-fsp pkmsymqpemueblsyd-errx,mbgmEbyubnnk?”

Tpk,mdrrumxby!--gqr.dqgmPxxb--v.gmlqbgmqbkmbnnmgqbgmgrmurmlsgqmgbosyd
nsopypkkpk?mTr.moyrlmyrgqsydmramueblsydwmUry'gmfepgpyumgrmvpmsymebfg.epk
bvr.gmxsypwmOppfmtr.emebfg.epkmaremQbeespg'kmab pwm“Lpnn,msamtr.mdscpmxp
k. qmosyumpy r.ebdpxpyg,mXewmPngry,mSmvpnspcpmSmkqbnnmgetmlqbgmSm bymurw
Qbeespg'kmapbg.epkmbepmcpetmupns bgp,mlqs qmxbopkmbmnsopypkkmusaas .ng;
byumtpgmgqpepmskmbmfp .nsbesgtmsymgqpmkqbfpmramgqpmptpmbyumgqpmnsypk
bvr.gmgqpmxr.gqmlqs qmrypmr.dqgmgrm bg qw”

“Pjb gntmkr--Gqpmkqbfpmramgqpmptpmbyumgqpmnsypkmbvr.gmgqpmxr.gq--Smqbcp
yrgmbmur.vgmramtr.emk.  pkkwmFebt,mfebtmbggpxfgmsgwmBkmtr.mlsnnmurmsg,
sgmlsnnmsyuppu,mgrm.kpmtr.emrlymlreuk,mvpmbympjh.sksgpmfrkkpkksryw”

“V.gmSmbxmbaebsu,mXewmPngry,mQbeespgmlsnnmyrgmnsopmgrmksgwmKqpmgqsyok
krmnsggnpmramqpemrlymvpb.gtwmUsumyrgmtr.mrvkpecpmqpemxbyypemrambyklpesyd
xp?mQrlm rxfnpgpntmsgmxpbyg,m'lqtmkqr.numxtmfs g.epmvpmuebly?'”

“Rq!mtpk,mSmrvkpecpumsg,mSmbkk.epmtr.wmSgmlbkmyrgmnrkgmrymxpwmV.gmkgsnn
Sm byyrgmsxbdsypmkqpmlr.numyrgmvpmfpek.bupuw”

Qbeespgmlbkmkrrymvb ombdbsy,mbyumgqpmferfrkbnmbnxrkgmsxxpusbgpntmxbup;
byumkqpmqbumyrmk e.fnpkmlqs qm r.numkgbyumxbytmxsy.gpkmbdbsykgmgqp
pbeypkgmfepkksydmramvrgqmgqpmrgqpekwmPxxbmlskqpumgrmdrmgrmlreomusep gnt,
byumgqpeparepmferu. pumgqpmfregarnsrm rygbsysydmqpemcbesr.kmbggpxfgkmbg
fregebsgk,maremyrgmrypmramgqpxmqbumpcpemvppymasyskqpu,mgqbgmgqptmxsdqg
up supmgrdpgqpemrymgqpmvpkgmksipmaremQbeespgwmQpemxbytmvpdsyysydkmlpep
uskfnbtpuwmXsysbg.epk,mqbna-npydgqk,mlqrnp-npydgqk,mfpy sn,m ebtry,mbyu
lbgpe- rnr.ekmqbumvppymbnnmgespumsymg.eywmKqpmqbumbnlbtkmlbygpumgrmur
pcpetmgqsyd,mbyumqbumxbupmxrepmferdepkkmvrgqmsymueblsydmbyumx.ks mgqby
xbytmxsdqgmqbcpmurypmlsgqmkrmnsggnpmnbvr.embkmkqpmlr.numpcpemk.vxsgmgrw
Kqpmfnbtpumbyumkbyd;--byumueplmsymbnxrkgmpcpetmkgtnp;mv.gmkgpbusypkk
qbumbnlbtkmvppymlbygsyd;mbyumsymyrgqsydmqbumkqpmbfferb qpumgqpmupdeppmra
pj pnnpy pmlqs qmkqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymdnbumgrm rxxbyu,mbyumr.dqgmyrgmgr
qbcpmabsnpumrawmKqpmlbkmyrgmx. qmup pscpumbkmgrmqpemrlymkosnnmpsgqpe
bkmbymbegskgmrembmx.ks sby,mv.gmkqpmlbkmyrgm.ylsnnsydmgrmqbcpmrgqpek
up pscpu,mremkreetmgrmoyrlmqpemepf.gbgsrymaremb  rxfnskqxpygmragpy
qsdqpemgqbymsgmupkpecpuw

Gqpepmlbkmxpesgmsympcpetmueblsyd--symgqpmnpbkgmasyskqpu,mfpeqbfkmgqp
xrkg;mqpemkgtnpmlbkmkfsesgpu;mv.gmqbumgqpepmvppymx. qmnpkk,mremqbumgqpep
vppymgpymgsxpkmxrep,mgqpmupnsdqgmbyumbuxsebgsrymramqpemglrm rxfbysryk
lr.numqbcpmvppymgqpmkbxpwmGqptmlpepmvrgqmsymp kgbkspkwmBmnsopypkk
fnpbkpkmpcpetmvrut;mbyumXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmfpearexby pkmx.kgmvpm bfsgbnw

“Yrmdepbgmcbespgtmramab pkmaremtr.,”mkbsumPxxbwm“Smqbumryntmxtmrly
abxsntmgrmkg.utmaerxwmGqpepmskmxtmabgqpe--byrgqpemramxtmabgqpe--v.gmgqp
supbmramksggsydmaremqskmfs g.epmxbupmqsxmkrmypecr.k,mgqbgmSm r.numrynt
gbopmqsxmvtmkgpbngq;mypsgqpemramgqpxmcpetmnsopmgqpeparepwmXekwmLpkgry
bdbsy,mbyumbdbsy,mbyumbdbsy,mtr.mkppwmUpbemXekwmLpkgry!mbnlbtkmxt
osyupkgmaespyumrympcpetmr  bksrywmKqpmlr.numksgmlqpypcpemSmbkopumqpew
Gqpepmskmxtmkskgpe;mbyumepbnntmh.sgpmqpemrlymnsggnpmpnpdbygmasd.ep!--byu
gqpmab pmyrgm.ynsopwmSmkqr.numqbcpmxbupmbmdrrumnsopypkkmramqpe,msamkqp
lr.numqbcpmkbgmnrydpe,mv.gmkqpmlbkmsymk. qmbmq.eetmgrmqbcpmxpmuebl
qpemar.em qsnuepymgqbgmkqpmlr.numyrgmvpmh.spgwmGqpy,mqpepm rxpmbnnmxt
bggpxfgkmbgmgqeppmramgqrkpmar.em qsnuepy;--gqpepmgqptmbep,mQpyetmbyu
ZrqymbyumVpnnb,maerxmrypmpyumramgqpmkqppgmgrmgqpmrgqpe,mbyumbytmrypmra
gqpxmxsdqgmurmarembytmrypmramgqpmepkgwmKqpmlbkmkrmpbdpemgrmqbcpmgqpx
ueblymgqbgmSm r.numyrgmepa.kp;mv.gmgqpepmskmyrmxbosydm qsnuepymramgqepp
remar.emtpbekmrnumkgbyumkgsnnmtr.moyrl;myrem bymsgmvpmcpetmpbktmgrmgbop
bytmnsopypkkmramgqpx,mvptryumgqpmbsembyum rxfnpjsry,m.ynpkkmgqptmbep
 rbekpemapbg.epumgqbymbytmramxbxb'km qsnuepympcpemlpepwmQpepmskmxt
kopg qmramgqpmar.egq,mlqrmlbkmbmvbvtwmSmgrromqsxmbkmqpmlbkmknppfsydmry
gqpmkrab,mbyumsgmskmbkmkgerydmbmnsopypkkmramqskm r obupmbkmtr.mlr.nu
lskqmgrmkppwmQpmqbumypkgnpumurlymqskmqpbumxrkgm rycpyspygntwmGqbg'kmcpet
nsopwmSmbxmebgqpemfer.umramnsggnpmDpredpwmGqpm reypemramgqpmkrabmskmcpet
drruwmGqpymqpepmskmxtmnbkg,”--.y nrksydmbmfepggtmkopg qmrambmdpygnpxby
symkxbnnmksip,mlqrnp-npydgq--“xtmnbkgmbyumxtmvpkg--xtmvergqpe,mXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnptw--Gqskmusumyrgmlbygmx. qmramvpsydmasyskqpu,mlqpymSmf.gmsgmblbt
symbmfpg,mbyumcrlpumSmlr.numypcpemgbopmbyrgqpemnsopypkkwmSm r.numyrg
qpnfmvpsydmfercropu;marembagpembnnmxtmfbsyk,mbyumlqpymSmqbumepbnntmxbup
bmcpetmdrrumnsopypkkmramsg--(XekwmLpkgrymbyumSmlpepmh.sgpmbdeppumsy
gqsyosydmsgm_cpet_mnsop)--ryntmgrrmqbyukrxp--grrmanbggpesyd--v.g
gqbgmlbkmbmab.ngmrymgqpmesdqgmksup”--bagpembnnmgqsk,m bxpmfrremupbe
Skbvpnnb'km rnumbffervbgsrymra--“Tpk,msgmlbkmbmnsggnpmnsop--v.gmgrmvp
k.epmsgmusumyrgmurmqsxmz.kgs pwmLpmqbumqbumbmdepbgmupbnmramger.vnp
symfpek.busydmqsxmgrmksgmbgmbnnwmSgmlbkmxbupmbmdepbgmabcr.emra;mbyu
bngrdpgqpemsgmlbkmxrepmgqbymSm r.numvpbe;mbyumkrmSmypcpemlr.numasyskq
sg,mgrmqbcpmsgmbfrnrdskpumrcpembkmbym.yabcr.ebvnpmnsopypkk,mgrmpcpet
xreysydmcsksgremsymVe.ykls omKh.bep;--byu,mbkmSmkbsu,mSmusumgqpy
areklpbempcpemueblsydmbytmvrutmbdbsywmV.gmaremQbeespg'kmkbop,mremebgqpe
aremxtmrly,mbyumbkmgqpepmbepmyrmq.kvbyukmbyumlscpkmsymgqpm bkpm_bg_
_fepkpyg_,mSmlsnnmvepbomxtmepkrn.gsrymyrlw”

XewmPngrymkppxpumcpetmferfpentmkge. ombyumupnsdqgpumvtmgqpmsupb,mbyumlbk
epfpbgsyd,m“Yrmq.kvbyukmbyumlscpkmsymgqpm bkpmbgmfepkpygmsyuppu,mbk
tr.mrvkpecpwmPjb gntmkrwmYrmq.kvbyukmbyumlscpk,”mlsgqmkrmsygpepkgsydmb
 ryk sr.kypkk,mgqbgmPxxbmvpdbymgrm ryksupemlqpgqpemkqpmqbumyrgmvpggpe
npbcpmgqpxmgrdpgqpembgmry pwmV.gmbkmkqpmlbygpumgrmvpmueblsyd,mgqp
up nbebgsrymx.kgmlbsgmbmnsggnpmnrydpew

KqpmqbumkrrymasjpumrymgqpmksipmbyumkregmramfregebsgwmSgmlbkmgrmvp
bmlqrnp-npydgqmsymlbgpe- rnr.ek,mnsopmXewmZrqymOysdqgnpt'k,mbyumlbk
upkgsypu,msamkqpm r.numfnpbkpmqpekpna,mgrmqrnumbmcpetmqryr.ebvnpmkgbgsry
rcpemgqpmxbygpnfsp pw

Gqpmksggsydmvpdby;mbyumQbeespg,mkxsnsydmbyumvn.kqsyd,mbyumbaebsumramyrg
oppfsydmqpembggsg.upmbyum r.ygpyby p,mfepkpygpumbmcpetmklppgmxsjg.epmra
tr.gqa.nmpjfepkksrymgrmgqpmkgpbutmptpkmramgqpmbegskgwmV.gmgqpepmlbkmyr
ursydmbytmgqsyd,mlsgqmXewmPngrymasudpgsydmvpqsyumqpembyumlbg qsydmpcpet
gr. qwmKqpmdbcpmqsxm epusgmaremkgbgsrysydmqsxkpnamlqpepmqpmxsdqgmdbip
byumdbipmbdbsymlsgqr.gmraapy p;mv.gmlbkmepbnntmrvnsdpumgrmf.gmbympyumgr
sg,mbyumeph.pkgmqsxmgrmfnb pmqsxkpnampnkplqpepwmSgmgqpymr  .eepumgrmqpe
grmpxfnrtmqsxmsymepbusydw

“Samqpmlr.numvpmkrmdrrumbkmgrmepbumgrmgqpx,msgmlr.numvpmbmosyuypkk
syuppu!mSgmlr.numbx.kpmblbtmgqpmusaas .ngspkmramqpemfbeg,mbyumnpkkpymgqp
seokrxpypkkmramXskkmKxsgq'kw”

XewmPngrymlbkmryntmgrrmqbfftwmQbeespgmnskgpypu,mbyumPxxbmueplmsymfpb pw
Kqpmx.kgmbnnrlmqsxmgrmvpmkgsnnmaeph.pygntm rxsydmgrmnrro;mbytmgqsydmnpkk
lr.num pegbsyntmqbcpmvppymgrrmnsggnpmsymbmnrcpe;mbyumqpmlbkmepbutmbgmgqp
kxbnnpkgmsygpexskksrymramgqpmfpy sn,mgrmz.xfm.fmbyumkppmgqpmferdepkk,
byumvpm qbexpuw--Gqpepmlbkmyrmvpsydmuskfnpbkpumlsgqmk. qmbympy r.ebdpe,
aremqskmbuxsebgsrymxbupmqsxmusk peymbmnsopypkkmbnxrkgmvparepmsg
lbkmfrkksvnpwmKqpm r.numyrgmepkfp gmqskmptp,mv.gmqskmnrcpmbyumqsk
 rxfnbskby pmlpepm.ypj pfgsrybvnpw

Gqpmksggsydmlbkmbngrdpgqpemcpetmkbgskab gret;mkqpmlbkmh.sgpmpyr.dq
fnpbkpumlsgqmgqpmasekgmubt'kmkopg qmgrmlskqmgrmdrmrywmGqpepmlbkmyrmlbyg
ramnsopypkk,mkqpmqbumvppymareg.ybgpmsymgqpmbggsg.up,mbyumbkmkqpmxpbyg
grmgqerlmsymbmnsggnpmsxfercpxpygmgrmgqpmasd.ep,mgrmdscpmbmnsggnpmxrep
qpsdqg,mbyum ryksupebvntmxrepmpnpdby p,mkqpmqbumdepbgm ryasupy pmra
sgkmvpsydmsympcpetmlbtmbmfepggtmueblsydmbgmnbkg,mbyumramsgkmasnnsyd
sgkmupkgsypumfnb pmlsgqm epusgmgrmgqpxmvrgq--bmkgbyusydmxpxresbnmramgqp
vpb.gtmramryp,mgqpmkosnnmramgqpmrgqpe,mbyumgqpmaespyukqsfmramvrgq;
lsgqmbkmxbytmrgqpembdeppbvnpmbkkr sbgsrykmbkmXewmPngry'kmcpetmferxsksyd
bggb qxpygmlbkmnsopntmgrmbuuw

Qbeespgmlbkmgrmksgmbdbsymgqpmypjgmubt;mbyumXewmPngry,mz.kgmbkmqpmr.dqg,
pygepbgpumaremgqpmfpexskksrymrambggpyusydmbyumepbusydmgrmgqpxmbdbsyw

“VtmbnnmxpbykwmLpmkqbnnmvpmxrkgmqbfftmgrm ryksupemtr.mbkmrypmramgqp
fbegtw”

Gqpmkbxpm scsnsgspkmbyum r.egpkspk,mgqpmkbxpmk.  pkkmbyumkbgskab gsry,
grromfnb pmrymgqpmxreerl,mbyumb  rxfbyspumgqpmlqrnpmferdepkkmramgqp
fs g.ep,mlqs qmlbkmebfsumbyumqbfftwmPcpetmvrutmlqrmkblmsgmlbkmfnpbkpu,
v.gmXewmPngrymlbkmsym rygsy.bnmebfg.epk,mbyumupapyupumsgmgqer.dqmpcpet
 esgs skxw

“XskkmLrruqr.kpmqbkmdscpymqpemaespyumgqpmryntmvpb.gtmkqp
lbygpu,”--rvkpecpumXekwmLpkgrymgrmqsx--yrgmsymgqpmnpbkgmk.kfp gsydmgqbg
kqpmlbkmbuuepkksydmbmnrcpew--“Gqpmpjfepkksrymramgqpmptpmskmxrkgm reep g,
v.gmXskkmKxsgqmqbkmyrgmgqrkpmptpverlkmbyumptpnbkqpkwmSgmskmgqpmab.ngmra
qpemab pmgqbgmkqpmqbkmgqpxmyrgw”

“Urmtr.mgqsyomkr?”mepfnspumqpwm“Sm byyrgmbdeppmlsgqmtr.wmSgmbffpbek
grmxpmbmxrkgmfpeap gmepkpxvnby pmsympcpetmapbg.epwmSmypcpemkblmk. qmb
nsopypkkmsymxtmnsapwmLpmx.kgmbnnrlmaremgqpmpaap gmramkqbup,mtr.moyrlw”

“Tr.mqbcpmxbupmqpemgrrmgbnn,mPxxb,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptw

Pxxbmoyplmgqbgmkqpmqbu,mv.gmlr.numyrgmrlymsg;mbyumXewmPngrymlbexnt
buupu,

“Rqmyr!m pegbsyntmyrgmgrrmgbnn;myrgmsymgqpmnpbkgmgrrmgbnnwm ryksupe,mkqp
skmksggsydmurly--lqs qmybg.ebnntmfepkpygkmbmusaapepyg--lqs qmsymkqreg
dscpkmpjb gntmgqpmsupb--byumgqpmferfregsrykmx.kgmvpmfepkpecpu,mtr.moyrlw
Ferfregsryk,marep-kqregpysydw--Rqmyr!msgmdscpkmrypmpjb gntmgqpmsupbmra
k. qmbmqpsdqgmbkmXskkmKxsgq'kwmPjb gntmkrmsyuppu!”

“Sgmskmcpetmfepggt,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kpwm“Krmfepggsntmuryp!mZ.kgmbkmtr.e
ueblsydkmbnlbtkmbep,mxtmupbewmSmurmyrgmoyrlmbytmvrutmlqrmueblkmkrmlpnn
bkmtr.murwmGqpmryntmgqsydmSmurmyrgmgqrer.dqntmnsopmsk,mgqbgmkqpmkppxk
grmvpmksggsydmr.gmramurrek,mlsgqmryntmbmnsggnpmkqblnmrcpemqpe
kqr.nupek--byumsgmxbopkmrypmgqsyomkqpmx.kgm bg qm rnuw”

“V.g,mxtmupbemfbfb,msgmskmk.ffrkpumgrmvpmk.xxpe;mbmlbexmubtmsymk.xxpew
Nrrombgmgqpmgeppw”

“V.gmsgmskmypcpemkbapmgrmksgmr.gmramurrek,mxtmupbew”

“Tr.,mkse,mxbtmkbtmbytmgqsyd,”m espumXewmPngry,m“v.gmSmx.kgm ryapkkmgqbg
Smepdbeumsgmbkmbmxrkgmqbfftmgqr.dqg,mgqpmfnb sydmramXskkmKxsgqmr.gmra
urrek;mbyumgqpmgeppmskmgr. qpumlsgqmk. qmsysxsgbvnpmkfsesg!mBytmrgqpe
ksg.bgsrymlr.numqbcpmvppymx. qmnpkkmsym qbeb gpewmGqpmybscpgpmramXskk
Kxsgq'kmxbyypek--byumbngrdpgqpe--Rq,msgmskmxrkgmbuxsebvnp!mSm byyrgmoppf
xtmptpkmaerxmsgwmSmypcpemkblmk. qmbmnsopypkkw”

Gqpmypjgmgqsydmlbygpumlbkmgrmdpgmgqpmfs g.epmaebxpu;mbyumqpepmlpepmbmapl
usaas .ngspkwmSgmx.kgmvpmurypmusep gnt;msgmx.kgmvpmurypmsymNryury;mgqp
reupemx.kgmdrmgqer.dqmgqpmqbyukmramkrxpmsygpnnsdpygmfpekrymlqrkpmgbkgp
 r.numvpmupfpyupumry;mbyumSkbvpnnb,mgqpm.k.bnmurpemrambnnm rxxskksryk,
x.kgmyrgmvpmbffnspumgr,mvp b.kpmsgmlbkmUp pxvpe,mbyumXewmLrruqr.kp
 r.numyrgmvpbemgqpmsupbmramqpemkgseesydmr.gmramqpemqr.kpmsymgqpmardkmra
Up pxvpewmV.gmyrmkrrypemlbkmgqpmuskgepkkmoyrlymgrmXewmPngry,mgqbymsg
lbkmepxrcpuwmQskmdbnnbygetmlbkmbnlbtkmrymgqpmbnpegwm“Xsdqgmqpmvpmge.kgpu
lsgqmgqpm rxxskksry,mlqbgmsyasysgpmfnpbk.epmkqr.numqpmqbcpmsympjp .gsyd
sg!mqpm r.numesupmgrmNryurymbgmbytmgsxpwmSgmlbkmsxfrkksvnpmgrmkbtmqrl
x. qmqpmkqr.numvpmdebgsaspumvtmvpsydmpxfnrtpumrymk. qmbympeebyuw”

“Qpmlbkmgrrmdrru!--kqpm r.numyrgmpyu.epmgqpmgqr.dqg!--kqpmlr.numyrgmdscp
qsxmk. qmbmger.vnpkrxpmraas pmaremgqpmlrenu,”--ver.dqgmrymgqpmupksepu
epfpgsgsrymrampygepbgspkmbyumbkk.eby pk,--byumbmcpetmaplmxsy.gpkmkpggnpu
gqpmv.ksypkkw

XewmPngrymlbkmgrmgbopmgqpmueblsydmgrmNryury,m q.kpmgqpmaebxp,mbyumdscp
gqpmusep gsryk;mbyumPxxbmgqr.dqgmkqpm r.numkrmfb omsgmbkmgrmpyk.epmsgk
kbapgtmlsgqr.gmx. qmsy rxxrusydmqsx,mlqsnpmqpmkppxpumxrkgntmapbea.nmra
yrgmvpsydmsy rxxrupumpyr.dqw

“Lqbgmbmfep sr.kmupfrksg!”mkbsumqpmlsgqmbmgpyupemksdq,mbkmqpmep pscpu
sgw

“Gqskmxbymskmbnxrkgmgrrmdbnnbygmgrmvpmsymnrcp,”mgqr.dqgmPxxbwm“Smkqr.nu
kbtmkr,mv.gmgqbgmSmk.ffrkpmgqpepmxbtmvpmbmq.yuepumusaapepygmlbtkmra
vpsydmsymnrcpwmQpmskmbympj pnnpygmtr.ydmxby,mbyumlsnnmk.sgmQbeespg
pjb gnt;msgmlsnnmvpmbym'Pjb gntmkr,'mbkmqpmkbtkmqsxkpna;mv.gmqpmurpk
ksdqmbyumnbyd.skq,mbyumkg.utmarem rxfnsxpygkmebgqpemxrepmgqbymSm r.nu
pyu.epmbkmbmfesy sfbnwmSm rxpmsymarembmfepggtmdrrumkqbepmbkmbmkp ryuw
V.gmsgmskmqskmdebgsg.upmrymQbeespg'kmb  r.ygw”



 QBFGPEmCSS


GqpmcpetmubtmramXewmPngry'kmdrsydmgrmNryurymferu. pumbmaepkqmr  bksry
aremPxxb'kmkpecs pkmgrlbeukmqpemaespyuwmQbeespgmqbumvppymbgmQbegaspnu,
bkm.k.bn,mkrrymbagpemvepboabkg;mbyu,mbagpembmgsxp,mqbumdrypmqrxpmgr
epg.eymbdbsymgrmusyype:mkqpmepg.eypu,mbyumkrrypemgqbymqbumvppy
gbnopumra,mbyumlsgqmbymbdsgbgpu,mq.eespumnrro,mbyyr.y sydmkrxpgqsyd
pjgebreusybetmgrmqbcpmqbffpypumlqs qmkqpmlbkmnrydsydmgrmgpnnwmQbnamb
xsy.gpmver.dqgmsgmbnnmr.gwmKqpmqbumqpbeu,mbkmkrrymbkmkqpmdrgmvb omgr
XekwmDruubeu'k,mgqbgmXewmXbegsymqbumvppymgqpepmbymqr.emvparep,mbyu
asyusydmkqpmlbkmyrgmbgmqrxp,myremfbegs .nbentmpjfp gpu,mqbumnpagmb
nsggnpmfbe pnmaremqpemaerxmrypmramqskmkskgpek,mbyumdrypmblbt;mbyumry
rfpysydmgqskmfbe pn,mkqpmqbumb g.bnntmar.yu,mvpksupkmgqpmglrmkrydkmlqs q
kqpmqbumnpygmPnsibvpgqmgrm rft,mbmnpggpemgrmqpekpna;mbyumgqskmnpggpemlbk
aerxmqsx,maerxmXewmXbegsy,mbyum rygbsypumbmusep gmferfrkbnmramxbeesbdpw
“Lqrm r.numqbcpmgqr.dqgmsg?mKqpmlbkmkrmk.efesipumkqpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbg
grmurwmTpk,mh.sgpmbmferfrkbnmramxbeesbdp;mbyumbmcpetmdrrumnpggpe,
bgmnpbkgmkqpmgqr.dqgmkrwmByumqpmlergpmbkmsamqpmepbnntmnrcpumqpemcpet
x. q--v.gmkqpmusumyrgmoyrl--byumkr,mkqpmlbkm rxpmbkmabkgmbkmkqpm r.numgr
bkomXskkmLrruqr.kpmlqbgmkqpmkqr.numurw--”mPxxbmlbkmqbna-bkqbxpumramqpe
aespyumaremkppxsydmkrmfnpbkpumbyumkrmur.vga.nw

“.frymxtmlreu,”mkqpm espu,m“gqpmtr.ydmxbymskmupgpexsypumyrgmgrmnrkpmbyt
gqsydmaremlbygmrambkosydwmQpmlsnnm ryyp gmqsxkpnamlpnnmsamqpm byw”

“Lsnnmtr.mepbumgqpmnpggpe?”m espumQbeespgwm“FebtmurwmS'umebgqpemtr.
lr.nuw”

PxxbmlbkmyrgmkreetmgrmvpmfepkkpuwmKqpmepbu,mbyumlbkmk.efesipuwmGqpmkgtnp
ramgqpmnpggpemlbkmx. qmbvrcpmqpempjfp gbgsrywmGqpepmlpepmyrgmxpepntmyr
debxxbgs bnmpeerek,mv.gmbkmbm rxfrksgsrymsgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmuskdeb pumb
dpygnpxby;mgqpmnbyd.bdp,mgqr.dqmfnbsy,mlbkmkgerydmbyum.ybaap gpu,mbyu
gqpmkpygsxpygkmsgm rycptpumcpetmx. qmgrmgqpm epusgmramgqpmlesgpewmSgmlbk
kqreg,mv.gmpjfepkkpumdrrumkpykp,mlbexmbggb qxpyg,mnsvpebnsgt,mferfespgt,
pcpymupns b tmramappnsydwmKqpmfb.kpumrcpemsg,mlqsnpmQbeespgmkgrru
byjsr.kntmlbg qsydmaremqpemrfsysry,mlsgqmbm“Lpnn,mlpnn,”mbyumlbkmbgmnbkg
are pumgrmbuu,m“Skmsgmbmdrrumnpggpe?mremskmsgmgrrmkqreg?”

“Tpk,msyuppu,mbmcpetmdrrumnpggpe,”mepfnspumPxxbmebgqpemknrlnt--“kr
drrumbmnpggpe,mQbeespg,mgqbgmpcpetmgqsydm ryksupepu,mSmgqsyomrypmramqsk
kskgpekmx.kgmqbcpmqpnfpumqsxwmSm bymqbeuntmsxbdsypmgqpmtr.ydmxbymlqrx
Smkblmgbnosydmlsgqmtr.mgqpmrgqpemubtm r.numpjfepkkmqsxkpnamkrmlpnn,msa
npagmh.sgpmgrmqskmrlymfrlpek,mbyumtpgmsgmskmyrgmgqpmkgtnpmrambmlrxby;
yr,m pegbsynt,msgmskmgrrmkgerydmbyum ry skp;myrgmusaa.kpmpyr.dqmaremb
lrxbywmYrmur.vgmqpmskmbmkpyksvnpmxby,mbyumSmk.ffrkpmxbtmqbcpmbmybg.ebn
gbnpygmare--gqsyokmkgerydntmbyum npbent--byumlqpymqpmgbopkmbmfpymsy
qbyu,mqskmgqr.dqgkmybg.ebnntmasyumferfpemlreukwmSgmskmkrmlsgqmkrxpmxpyw
Tpk,mSm.yupekgbyumgqpmkregmramxsyuwmCsdrer.k,mup supu,mlsgqmkpygsxpygk
grmbm pegbsymfrsyg,myrgm rbekpwmBmvpggpemlesggpymnpggpe,mQbeespg
(epg.eysydmsg,)mgqbymSmqbumpjfp gpuw”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumgqpmkgsnnmlbsgsydmQbeespg;--“lpnn--byu--byumlqbgmkqbnnmS
ur?”

“Lqbgmkqbnnmtr.mur!mSymlqbgmepkfp g?mUrmtr.mxpbymlsgqmepdbeumgrmgqsk
npggpe?”

“Tpkw”

“V.gmlqbgmbepmtr.msymur.vgmra?mTr.mx.kgmbyklpemsgmram r.ekp--byu
kfppusntw”

“TpkwmV.gmlqbgmkqbnnmSmkbt?mUpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,murmbucskpmxpw”

“Rqmyr,myr!mgqpmnpggpemqbumx. qmvpggpemvpmbnnmtr.emrlywmTr.mlsnnmpjfepkk
tr.ekpnamcpetmferfpent,mSmbxmk.epwmGqpepmskmyrmubydpemramtr.emyrg
vpsydmsygpnnsdsvnp,mlqs qmskmgqpmasekgmgqsydwmTr.emxpbysydmx.kgmvp
.yph.scr bn;myrmur.vgkmremupx.ek:mbyumk. qmpjfepkksrykmramdebgsg.up
byum ry peymaremgqpmfbsymtr.mbepmsyans gsydmbkmferfespgtmeph.sepk,mlsnn
fepkpygmgqpxkpncpkm.yvsuupymgrm_tr.e_mxsyu,mSmbxmfpek.bupuwmTr.myppu
yrgmvpmferxfgpumgrmlesgpmlsgqmgqpmbffpbeby pmramkreerlmaremqsk
uskbffrsygxpygw”

“Tr.mgqsyomSmr.dqgmgrmepa.kpmqsxmgqpy,”mkbsumQbeespg,mnrrosydmurlyw

“R.dqgmgrmepa.kpmqsx!mXtmupbemQbeespg,mlqbgmurmtr.mxpby?mBepmtr.msymbyt
ur.vgmbkmgrmgqbg?mSmgqr.dqg--v.gmSmvpdmtr.emfbeury,mfpeqbfkmSmqbcpmvppy
.yupembmxskgbopwmSm pegbsyntmqbcpmvppymxsk.yupekgbyusydmtr.,msamtr.mappn
symur.vgmbkmgrmgqpm_f.efreg_mramtr.embyklpewmSmqbumsxbdsypumtr.mlpep
 ryk.ngsydmxpmryntmbkmgrmgqpmlreusydmramsgw”

QbeespgmlbkmksnpygwmLsgqmbmnsggnpmepkpecpmramxbyype,mPxxbm rygsy.pu:

“Tr.mxpbymgrmepg.eymbmabcr.ebvnpmbyklpe,mSm rnnp gw”

“Yr,mSmurmyrg;mgqbgmsk,mSmurmyrgmxpby--LqbgmkqbnnmSmur?mLqbgmlr.numtr.
bucskpmxpmgrmur?mFebt,mupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgpnnmxpmlqbgmSmr.dqgmgrmurw”

“Smkqbnnmyrgmdscpmtr.mbytmbucs p,mQbeespgwmSmlsnnmqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmur
lsgqmsgwmGqskmskmbmfrsygmlqs qmtr.mx.kgmkpggnpmlsgqmtr.emappnsydkw”

“Smqbumyrmyrgsrymgqbgmqpmnsopumxpmkrmcpetmx. q,”mkbsumQbeespg,
 rygpxfnbgsydmgqpmnpggpewmArembmnsggnpmlqsnpmPxxbmfpekpcpepumsymqpe
ksnpy p;mv.gmvpdsyysydmgrmbffepqpyumgqpmvplsg qsydmanbggpetmramgqbg
npggpemxsdqgmvpmgrrmfrlpea.n,mkqpmgqr.dqgmsgmvpkgmgrmkbt,

“Smnbtmsgmurlymbkmbmdpypebnme.np,mQbeespg,mgqbgmsambmlrxbym_ur.vgk_mbk
grmlqpgqpemkqpmkqr.numb  pfgmbmxbymremyrg,mkqpm pegbsyntmr.dqgmgrmepa.kp
qsxwmSamkqpm bymqpksgbgpmbkmgrm'Tpk,'mkqpmr.dqgmgrmkbtm'Yr'musep gntw
Sgmskmyrgmbmkgbgpmgrmvpmkbapntmpygpepumsygrmlsgqmur.vga.nmappnsydk,mlsgq
qbnambmqpbegwmSmgqr.dqgmsgmxtmu.gtmbkmbmaespyu,mbyumrnupemgqbymtr.ekpna,
grmkbtmgq.kmx. qmgrmtr.wmV.gmurmyrgmsxbdsypmgqbgmSmlbygmgrmsyan.py p
tr.w”

“Rq!myr,mSmbxmk.epmtr.mbepmbmdepbgmupbnmgrrmosyumgr--v.gmsamtr.mlr.nu
z.kgmbucskpmxpmlqbgmSmqbumvpkgmur--Yr,myr,mSmurmyrgmxpbymgqbg--Bk
tr.mkbt,mryp'kmxsyumr.dqgmgrmvpmh.sgpmxbupm.f--Rypmkqr.numyrgmvp
qpksgbgsyd--Sgmskmbmcpetmkpesr.kmgqsydw--Sgmlsnnmvpmkbapemgrmkbtm'Yr,'
fpeqbfkw--Urmtr.mgqsyomSmqbumvpggpemkbtm'Yr?'”

“Yrgmaremgqpmlrenu,”mkbsumPxxb,mkxsnsydmdeb sr.knt,m“lr.numSmbucskpmtr.
psgqpemlbtwmTr.mx.kgmvpmgqpmvpkgmz.udpmramtr.emrlymqbffsypkkwmSamtr.
fepapemXewmXbegsymgrmpcpetmrgqpemfpekry;msamtr.mgqsyomqsxmgqpmxrkg
bdeppbvnpmxbymtr.mqbcpmpcpemvppymsym rxfbytmlsgq,mlqtmkqr.numtr.
qpksgbgp?mTr.mvn.kq,mQbeespgw--Urpkmbytmvrutmpnkpmr  .emgrmtr.mbg
gqskmxrxpygm.yupemk. qmbmupasysgsry?mQbeespg,mQbeespg,murmyrgmup pscp
tr.ekpna;murmyrgmvpme.ymblbtmlsgqmvtmdebgsg.upmbyum rxfbkksrywmBgmgqsk
xrxpygmlqrxmbepmtr.mgqsyosydmra?”

Gqpmktxfgrxkmlpepmabcr.ebvnpw--Sykgpbumrambyklpesyd,mQbeespgmg.eypumblbt
 rya.kpu,mbyumkgrrumgqr.dqga.nntmvtmgqpmasep;mbyumgqr.dqmgqpmnpggpemlbk
kgsnnmsymqpemqbyu,msgmlbkmyrlmxp qbys bnntmglskgpumbvr.gmlsgqr.gmepdbeuw
Pxxbmlbsgpumgqpmepk.ngmlsgqmsxfbgspy p,mv.gmyrgmlsgqr.gmkgerydmqrfpkwmBg
nbkg,mlsgqmkrxpmqpksgbgsry,mQbeespgmkbsu--

“XskkmLrruqr.kp,mbkmtr.mlsnnmyrgmdscpmxpmtr.emrfsysry,mSmx.kgmurmbkmlpnn
bkmSm bymvtmxtkpna;mbyumSmqbcpmyrlmh.sgpmupgpexsypu,mbyumepbnntmbnxrkg
xbupm.fmxtmxsyu--grmepa.kpmXewmXbegsywmUrmtr.mgqsyomSmbxmesdqg?”

“Fpeap gnt,mfpeap gntmesdqg,mxtmupbepkgmQbeespg;mtr.mbepmursydmz.kg
lqbgmtr.mr.dqgwmLqsnpmtr.mlpepmbgmbnnmsymk.kfpykpmSmopfgmxtmappnsydkmgr
xtkpna,mv.gmyrlmgqbgmtr.mbepmkrm rxfnpgpntmup supumSmqbcpmyrmqpksgbgsry
symbffercsydwmUpbemQbeespg,mSmdscpmxtkpnamzrtmramgqskwmSgmlr.nu
qbcpmdespcpumxpmgrmnrkpmtr.emb h.bsygby p,mlqs qmx.kgmqbcpmvppymgqp
 rykph.py pmramtr.emxbeetsydmXewmXbegsywmLqsnpmtr.mlpepmsymgqpmkxbnnpkg
updeppmlbcpesyd,mSmkbsumyrgqsydmbvr.gmsg,mvp b.kpmSmlr.numyrgmsyan.py p;
v.gmsgmlr.numqbcpmvppymgqpmnrkkmrambmaespyumgrmxpwmSm r.numyrgmqbcp
csksgpumXekwmErvpegmXbegsy,mramBvvpt-XsnnmAbexwmYrlmSmbxmkp .epmramtr.
arempcpew”

Qbeespgmqbumyrgmk.exskpumqpemrlymubydpe,mv.gmgqpmsupbmramsgmkge. omqpe
are svntw

“Tr.m r.numyrgmqbcpmcsksgpumxp!”mkqpm espu,mnrrosydmbdqbkgwm“Yr,mgrmvp
k.epmtr.m r.numyrg;mv.gmSmypcpemgqr.dqgmramgqbgmvparepwmGqbgmlr.numqbcp
vppymgrrmuepbua.n!--Lqbgmbympk bfp!--UpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mSmlr.numyrg
dscpm.fmgqpmfnpbk.epmbyumqryr.emramvpsydmsygsxbgpmlsgqmtr.marembytmgqsyd
symgqpmlrenuw”

“Syuppu,mQbeespg,msgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbmkpcpepmfbydmgrmnrkpmtr.;mv.gmsg
x.kgmqbcpmvppywmTr.mlr.numqbcpmgqerlymtr.ekpnamr.gmrambnnmdrrumkr spgtw
Smx.kgmqbcpmdscpymtr.m.fw”

“Upbemxp!--Qrlmkqr.numSmpcpemqbcpmvreypmsg!mSgmlr.numqbcpmosnnpumxp
ypcpemgrm rxpmgrmQbegaspnumbytmxrep!”

“Upbembaap gsrybgpm epbg.ep!--_Tr._mvbyskqpumgrmBvvpt-XsnnmAbex!--_Tr._
 ryasypumgrmgqpmkr spgtmramgqpmsnnsgpebgpmbyumc.ndbembnnmtr.emnsap!mS
lryupemqrlmgqpmtr.ydmxbym r.numqbcpmgqpmbkk.eby pmgrmbkomsgwmQpmx.kg
qbcpmbmfepggtmdrrumrfsysrymramqsxkpnaw”

“Smurmyrgmgqsyomqpmskm ry psgpumpsgqpe,msymdpypebn,”mkbsumQbeespg,mqpe
 ryk spy pmrffrksydmk. qm pyk.ep;m“bgmnpbkg,mqpmskmcpetmdrrumybg.epu,
byumSmkqbnnmbnlbtkmappnmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmqsx,mbyumqbcpmbmdepbgmepdbeu
are--v.gmgqbgmskmh.sgpmbmusaapepygmgqsydmaerx--byumtr.moyrl,mgqr.dq
qpmxbtmnsopmxp,msgmurpkmyrgmarnnrlmgqbgmSmkqr.nu--byum pegbsyntmSmx.kg
 ryapkkmgqbgmksy pmxtmcsksgsydmqpepmSmqbcpmkppymfprfnp--byumsamrypm rxpk
grm rxfbepmgqpx,mfpekrymbyumxbyypek,mgqpepmskmyrm rxfbeskrymbgmbnn,
_ryp_mskmkrmcpetmqbyukrxpmbyumbdeppbvnpwmQrlpcpe,mSmurmepbnntmgqsyomXew
Xbegsymbmcpetmbxsbvnpmtr.ydmxby,mbyumqbcpmbmdepbgmrfsysrymramqsx;mbyu
qskmvpsydmkrmx. qmbggb qpumgrmxp--byumqskmlesgsydmk. qmbmnpggpe--v.gmbk
grmnpbcsydmtr.,msgmskmlqbgmSmlr.numyrgmurm.frymbytm ryksupebgsryw”

“Gqbyomtr.,mgqbyomtr.,mxtmrlymklppgmnsggnpmaespyuwmLpmlsnnmyrgmvp
fbegpuwmBmlrxbymskmyrgmgrmxbeetmbmxbymxpepntmvp b.kpmkqpmskmbkopu,mre
vp b.kpmqpmskmbggb qpumgrmqpe,mbyum bymlesgpmbmgrnpebvnpmnpggpew”

“Rqmyr;--byumsgmskmv.gmbmkqregmnpggpemgrrw”

Pxxbmapngmgqpmvbumgbkgpmramqpemaespyu,mv.gmnpgmsgmfbkkmlsgqmbm“cpet
ge.p;mbyumsgmlr.numvpmbmkxbnnm rykrnbgsrymgrmqpe,maremgqpm nrlyskq
xbyypemlqs qmxsdqgmvpmraapyusydmqpempcpetmqr.emramgqpmubt,mgrmoyrlmgqbg
qpemq.kvbyum r.numlesgpmbmdrrumnpggpew”

“Rq!mtpk,mcpetwmYrvrutm bepkmarembmnpggpe;mgqpmgqsydmsk,mgrmvpmbnlbtk
qbfftmlsgqmfnpbkbygm rxfbysrykwmSmbxmh.sgpmupgpexsypumgrmepa.kpmqsxwmV.g
qrlmkqbnnmSmur?mLqbgmkqbnnmSmkbt?”

Pxxbmbkk.epumqpemgqpepmlr.numvpmyrmusaas .ngtmsymgqpmbyklpe,mbyumbucskpu
sgkmvpsydmlesggpymusep gnt,mlqs qmlbkmbdeppumgr,msymgqpmqrfpmramqpe
bkkskgby p;mbyumgqr.dqmPxxbm rygsy.pumgrmfergpkgmbdbsykgmbytmbkkskgby p
vpsydmlbygpu,msgmlbkmsymab gmdscpymsymgqpmarexbgsrymrampcpetmkpygpy pw
Gqpmnrrosydmrcpemqskmnpggpembdbsy,msymepfntsydmgrmsg,mqbumk. qmb
kragpysydmgpyupy t,mgqbgmsgmlbkmfbegs .nbentmyp pkkbetmgrmveb pmqpem.f
lsgqmbmaplmup skscpmpjfepkksryk;mbyumkqpmlbkmkrmcpetmx. qm ry peypumbg
gqpmsupbmramxbosydmqsxm.yqbfft,mbyumgqr.dqgmkrmx. qmramlqbgmqskmxrgqpe
byumkskgpekmlr.numgqsyombyumkbt,mbyumlbkmkrmbyjsr.kmgqbgmgqptmkqr.numyrg
aby tmqpem.ydebgpa.n,mgqbgmPxxbmvpnspcpumsamgqpmtr.ydmxbymqbum rxpmsy
qpemlbtmbgmgqbgmxrxpyg,mqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymb  pfgpumbagpembnnw

Gqskmnpggpe,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmlesggpy,mbyumkpbnpu,mbyumkpygwmGqpmv.ksypkk
lbkmasyskqpu,mbyumQbeespgmkbapwmKqpmlbkmebgqpemnrlmbnnmgqpmpcpysyd,mv.g
Pxxbm r.numbnnrlmaremqpembxsbvnpmepdepgk,mbyumkrxpgsxpkmepnspcpumgqpxmvt
kfpbosydmramqpemrlymbaap gsry,mkrxpgsxpkmvtmvesydsydmarelbeumgqpmsupbmra
XewmPngryw

“SmkqbnnmypcpemvpmsycsgpumgrmBvvpt-Xsnnmbdbsy,”mlbkmkbsumsymebgqpemb
kreerla.nmgrypw

“Yre,msamtr.mlpep,m r.numSmpcpemvpbemgrmfbegmlsgqmtr.,mxtmQbeespgwmTr.
bepmbmdepbgmupbnmgrrmyp pkkbetmbgmQbegaspnumgrmvpmkfbepumgrmBvvpt-Xsnnw”

“ByumSmbxmk.epmSmkqr.numypcpemlbygmgrmdrmgqpep;maremSmbxmypcpemqbfftmv.g
bgmQbegaspnuw”

Krxpmgsxpmbagpelbeukmsgmlbk,m“SmgqsyomXekwmDruubeumlr.numvpmcpetmx. q
k.efesipumsamkqpmoyplmlqbgmqbumqbffpypuwmSmbxmk.epmXskkmYbkqmlr.nu--are
XskkmYbkqmgqsyokmqpemrlymkskgpemcpetmlpnnmxbeespu,mbyumsgmskmryntmb
nsypy-uebfpew”

“Rypmkqr.numvpmkreetmgrmkppmdepbgpemfesupmremepasypxpygmsymgqpmgpb qpe
rambmk qrrn,mQbeespgwmSmubepmkbtmXskkmYbkqmlr.numpyctmtr.mk. qmby
rffreg.ysgtmbkmgqskmramvpsydmxbeespuwmPcpymgqskm ryh.pkgmlr.numbffpbe
cbn.bvnpmsymqpemptpkwmBkmgrmbytmgqsydmk.fpesremaremtr.,mSmk.ffrkpmkqp
skmh.sgpmsymgqpmubeowmGqpmbggpygsrykmrambm pegbsymfpekrym bymqbeuntmvp
bxrydmgqpmgsggnp-gbggnpmramQsdqv.etmtpgwmQsgqpegrmSmaby tmtr.mbyumS
bepmgqpmryntmfprfnpmgrmlqrxmqskmnrrokmbyumxbyypekmqbcpmpjfnbsypu
gqpxkpncpkw”

Qbeespgmvn.kqpumbyumkxsnpu,mbyumkbsumkrxpgqsydmbvr.gmlryupesydmgqbg
fprfnpmkqr.numnsopmqpemkrmx. qwmGqpmsupbmramXewmPngrymlbkm pegbsynt
 qppesyd;mv.gmkgsnn,mbagpembmgsxp,mkqpmlbkmgpyupe-qpbegpumbdbsymgrlbeuk
gqpmepzp gpumXewmXbegsyw

“Yrlmqpmqbkmdrgmxtmnpggpe,”mkbsumkqpmkragntwm“Smlryupemlqbgmgqptmbepmbnn
ursyd--lqpgqpemqskmkskgpekmoyrl--samqpmskm.yqbfft,mgqptmlsnnmvpm.yqbfft
grrwmSmqrfpmqpmlsnnmyrgmxsyumsgmkrmcpetmx. qw”

“Npgm.kmgqsyomramgqrkpmbxrydmr.embvkpygmaespyukmlqrmbepmxrepm qppea.nnt
pxfnrtpu,”m espumPxxbwm“Bgmgqskmxrxpyg,mfpeqbfk,mXewmPngrymskmkqplsyd
tr.emfs g.epmgrmqskmxrgqpembyumkskgpek,mgpnnsydmqrlmx. qmxrepmvpb.gsa.n
skmgqpmresdsybn,mbyumbagpemvpsydmbkopumaremsgmascpmremksjmgsxpk,
bnnrlsydmgqpxmgrmqpbemtr.emybxp,mtr.emrlymupbemybxpw”

“Xtmfs g.ep!--V.gmqpmqbkmnpagmxtmfs g.epmsymVryu-kgeppgw”

“Qbkmqpmkr!--GqpymSmoyrlmyrgqsydmramXewmPngrywmYr,mxtmupbemnsggnpmxrupkg
Qbeespg,mupfpyum.frymsgmgqpmfs g.epmlsnnmyrgmvpmsymVryu-kgeppgmgsnn
z.kgmvparepmqpmxr.ygkmqskmqrekpmgr-xreerlwmSgmskmqskm rxfbysrymbnnmgqsk
pcpysyd,mqskmkrnb p,mqskmupnsdqgwmSgmrfpykmqskmupksdykmgrmqskmabxsnt,
sgmsygeru. pkmtr.mbxrydmgqpx,msgmusaa.kpkmgqer.dqmgqpmfbegtmgqrkp
fnpbkbygpkgmappnsydkmramr.emybg.ep,mpbdpem .esrksgtmbyumlbex
fepfrkkpkksrywmQrlm qppea.n,mqrlmbysxbgpu,mqrlmk.kfs sr.k,mqrlmv.kt
gqpsemsxbdsybgsrykmbnnmbep!”

Qbeespgmkxsnpumbdbsy,mbyumqpemkxsnpkmdeplmkgerydpew



 QBFGPEmCSSS


QbeespgmknpfgmbgmQbegaspnumgqbgmysdqgwmAremkrxpmlppokmfbkgmkqpmqbumvppy
kfpyusydmxrepmgqbymqbnamqpemgsxpmgqpep,mbyumdebu.bnntmdpggsydmgrmqbcp
bmvpu-errxmbfferfesbgpumgrmqpekpna;mbyumPxxbmz.udpumsgmvpkgmsympcpet
epkfp g,mkbapkgmbyumosyupkg,mgrmoppfmqpemlsgqmgqpxmbkmx. qmbkmfrkksvnp
z.kgmbgmfepkpygwmKqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmdrmgqpmypjgmxreysydmarembymqr.emre
glrmgrmXekwmDruubeu'k,mv.gmsgmlbkmgqpymgrmvpmkpggnpumgqbgmkqpmkqr.nu
epg.eymgrmQbegaspnu,mgrmxbopmbmepd.nbemcsksgmramkrxpmubtkw

Lqsnpmkqpmlbkmdryp,mXewmOysdqgnptm bnnpu,mbyumkbgmkrxpmgsxpmlsgqmXew
Lrruqr.kpmbyumPxxb,mgsnnmXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrmqbumfepcsr.kntmxbupm.fmqsk
xsyumgrmlbnomr.g,mlbkmfpek.bupumvtmqskmub.dqgpemyrgmgrmupapemsg,mbyumlbk
syu. pumvtmgqpmpygepbgspkmramvrgq,mgqr.dqmbdbsykgmgqpmk e.fnpkmramqsk
rlym scsnsgt,mgrmnpbcpmXewmOysdqgnptmaremgqbgmf.efrkpwmXewmOysdqgnpt,
lqrmqbumyrgqsydmram pepxrytmbvr.gmqsx,mlbkmraapesydmvtmqskmkqreg,
up supumbyklpek,mbymbx.ksydm rygebkgmgrmgqpmfergeb gpumbfrnrdspkmbyu
 scsnmqpksgbgsrykmramgqpmrgqpew

“Lpnn,mSmvpnspcp,msamtr.mlsnnmpj .kpmxp,mXewmOysdqgnpt,msamtr.mlsnnmyrg
 ryksupemxpmbkmursydmbmcpetme.upmgqsyd,mSmkqbnnmgbopmPxxb'kmbucs pmbyu
drmr.gmarembmh.begpemrambymqr.ewmBkmgqpmk.ymskmr.g,mSmvpnspcpmSmqbu
vpggpemgbopmxtmgqeppmg.eykmlqsnpmSm bywmSmgepbgmtr.mlsgqr.gm pepxryt,
XewmOysdqgnptwmLpmsycbnsukmgqsyomlpmbepmfescsnpdpumfprfnpw”

“Xtmupbemkse,murmyrgmxbopmbmkgebydpemramxpw”

“Smnpbcpmbympj pnnpygmk.vkgsg.gpmsymxtmub.dqgpewmPxxbmlsnnmvpmqbfftmgr
pygpegbsymtr.wmByumgqpeparepmSmgqsyomSmlsnnmvpdmtr.empj .kpmbyumgbopmxt
gqeppmg.eyk--xtmlsygpemlbnow”

“Tr.m byyrgmurmvpggpe,mksew”

“Smlr.numbkomaremgqpmfnpbk.epmramtr.em rxfbyt,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mv.gmSmbxmb
cpetmknrlmlbnope,mbyumxtmfb pmlr.numvpmgpusr.kmgrmtr.;mbyu,mvpksupk,mtr.
qbcpmbyrgqpemnrydmlbnomvparepmtr.,mgrmUrylpnnmBvvptw”

“Gqbyomtr.,mkse,mgqbyomtr.;mSmbxmdrsydmgqskmxrxpygmxtkpna;mbyumSmgqsyo
gqpmkrrypem_tr._mdrmgqpmvpggpewmSmlsnnmapg qmtr.emdepbg rbgmbyumrfpymgqp
dbeupymurremaremtr.w”

XewmLrruqr.kpmbgmnbkgmlbkmraa;mv.gmXewmOysdqgnpt,msykgpbumramvpsyd
sxxpusbgpntmraamnsoplskp,mkbgmurlymbdbsy,mkppxsydntmsy nsypumaremxrep
 qbgwmQpmvpdbymkfpbosydmramQbeespg,mbyumkfpbosydmramqpemlsgqmxrep
crn.ygbetmfebskpmgqbymPxxbmqbumpcpemqpbeumvparepw

“Sm byyrgmebgpmqpemvpb.gtmbkmtr.mur,”mkbsumqp;m“v.gmkqpmskmb
fepggtmnsggnpm epbg.ep,mbyumSmbxmsy nsypumgrmgqsyomcpetmlpnnmramqpe
uskfrksgsrywmQpem qbeb gpemupfpyukm.frymgqrkpmkqpmskmlsgq;mv.gmsymdrru
qbyukmkqpmlsnnmg.eymr.gmbmcbn.bvnpmlrxbyw”

“Smbxmdnbumtr.mgqsyomkr;mbyumgqpmdrrumqbyuk,mSmqrfp,mxbtmyrgmvp
lbygsydw”

“ rxp,”mkbsumqp,m“tr.mbepmbyjsr.kmarembm rxfnsxpyg,mkrmSmlsnnmgpnnmtr.
gqbgmtr.mqbcpmsxfercpumqpewmTr.mqbcpm .epumqpemramqpemk qrrn-dsen'k
dsddnp;mkqpmepbnntmurpkmtr.m epusgw”

“Gqbyomtr.wmSmkqr.numvpmxregsaspumsyuppumsamSmusumyrgmvpnspcpmSmqbumvppy
ramkrxpm.kp;mv.gmsgmskmyrgmpcpetmvrutmlqrmlsnnmvpkgrlmfebskpmlqpepmgqpt
xbtwm_Tr._murmyrgmragpymrcpefrlpemxpmlsgqmsgw”

“Tr.mbepmpjfp gsydmqpembdbsy,mtr.mkbt,mgqskmxreysyd?”

“BnxrkgmpcpetmxrxpygwmKqpmqbkmvppymdrypmnrydpembnepbutmgqbymkqp
sygpyupuw”

“Krxpgqsydmqbkmqbffpypumgrmupnbtmqpe;mkrxpmcsksgrekmfpeqbfkw”

“Qsdqv.etmdrkksfk!--Gsepkrxpmlepg qpk!”

“Qbeespgmxbtmyrgm ryksupempcpetmvrutmgsepkrxpmgqbgmtr.mlr.nuw”

Pxxbmoyplmgqskmlbkmgrrmge.pmarem rygebus gsry,mbyumgqpeparepmkbsu
yrgqsydwmQpmfepkpygntmbuupu,mlsgqmbmkxsnp,

“Smurmyrgmfepgpyumgrmasjmrymgsxpkmremfnb pk,mv.gmSmx.kgmgpnnmtr.mgqbg
Smqbcpmdrrumepbkrymgrmvpnspcpmtr.emnsggnpmaespyumlsnnmkrrymqpbemra
krxpgqsydmgrmqpembucbygbdpw”

“Syuppu!mqrlmkr?mramlqbgmkreg?”

“Bmcpetmkpesr.kmkreg,mSmbkk.epmtr.;”mkgsnnmkxsnsydw

“Cpetmkpesr.k!mSm bymgqsyomramv.gmrypmgqsyd--Lqrmskmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpe?
Lqrmxbopkmtr.mgqpsem ryasubyg?”

PxxbmlbkmxrepmgqbymqbnamsymqrfpkmramXewmPngry'kmqbcsydmuerfgmbmqsygw
XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmbmkregmramdpypebnmaespyumbyumbucskpe,mbyumkqpmoyplmXew
Pngrymnrropum.fmgrmqsxw

“Smqbcpmepbkrymgrmgqsyo,”mqpmepfnspu,m“gqbgmQbeespgmKxsgqmlsnnmkrrymqbcp
bymraapemramxbeesbdp,mbyumaerxmbmxrkgm.ypj pfgsrybvnpmh.begpe:--Ervpeg
XbegsymskmgqpmxbywmQpemcsksgmgrmBvvpt-Xsnn,mgqskmk.xxpe,mkppxkmgrmqbcp
urypmqskmv.ksypkkwmQpmskmupkfpebgpntmsymnrcpmbyumxpbykmgrmxbeetmqpew”

“Qpmskmcpetmrvnsdsyd,”mkbsumPxxb;m“v.gmskmqpmk.epmgqbgmQbeespgmxpbykmgr
xbeetmqsx?”

“Lpnn,mlpnn,mxpbykmgrmxbopmqpembymraapemgqpywmLsnnmgqbgmur?mQpm bxpmgr
gqpmBvvptmglrmpcpysydkmbdr,mrymf.efrkpmgrm ryk.ngmxpmbvr.gmsgwmQpmoyrlk
Smqbcpmbmgqrer.dqmepdbeumaremqsxmbyumbnnmqskmabxsnt,mbyu,mSmvpnspcp,
 ryksupekmxpmbkmrypmramqskmvpkgmaespyukwmQpm bxpmgrmbkomxpmlqpgqpe
Smgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numvpmsxfe.upygmsymqsxmgrmkpggnpmkrmpbent;mlqpgqpe
Smgqr.dqgmqpemgrrmtr.yd:msymkqreg,mlqpgqpemSmbffercpumqskm qrs p
bngrdpgqpe;mqbcsydmkrxpmbffepqpyksrymfpeqbfkmramqpemvpsydm ryksupepu
(pkfp sbnntmksy pm_tr.e_mxbosydmkrmx. qmramqpe)mbkmsymbmnsypmramkr spgt
bvrcpmqsxwmSmlbkmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpumlsgqmbnnmgqbgmqpmkbsuwmSmypcpemqpbe
vpggpemkpykpmaerxmbytmrypmgqbymErvpegmXbegsywmQpmbnlbtkmkfpbokmgrmgqp
f.efrkp;mrfpy,mkgebsdqgarelbeu,mbyumcpetmlpnnmz.udsydwmQpmgrnumxpmpcpet
gqsyd;mqskm se .xkgby pkmbyumfnbyk,mbyumlqbgmgqptmbnnmferfrkpumursydmsy
gqpmpcpygmramqskmxbeesbdpwmQpmskmbympj pnnpygmtr.ydmxby,mvrgqmbkmkrymbyu
vergqpewmSmqbumyrmqpksgbgsrymsymbucsksydmqsxmgrmxbeetwmQpmfercpumgrmxp
gqbgmqpm r.numbaareumsg;mbyumgqbgmvpsydmgqpm bkp,mSmlbkm rycsy pumqp
 r.numyrgmurmvpggpewmSmfebskpumgqpmabsemnbutmgrr,mbyumbngrdpgqpemkpyg
qsxmblbtmcpetmqbfftwmSamqpmqbumypcpempkgppxpumxtmrfsysrymvparep,mqp
lr.numqbcpmgqr.dqgmqsdqntmramxpmgqpy;mbyu,mSmubepmkbt,mnpagmgqpmqr.kp
gqsyosydmxpmgqpmvpkgmaespyumbyum r.ykpnnremxbympcpemqbuwmGqskmqbffpypu
gqpmysdqgmvparepmnbkgwmYrl,mbkmlpmxbtmabsentmk.ffrkp,mqpmlr.numyrgmbnnrl
x. qmgsxpmgrmfbkkmvparepmqpmkfropmgrmgqpmnbut,mbyumbkmqpmurpkmyrgmbffpbe
grmqbcpmkfropymtpkgpeubt,msgmskmyrgm.ynsopntmgqbgmqpmkqr.numvpmbgmXekw
Druubeu'kmgr-ubt;mbyumkqpmxbtmvpmupgbsypumvtmbmcsksgre,mlsgqr.gmgqsyosyd
qsxmbgmbnnmbmgsepkrxpmlepg qw”

“Febt,mXewmOysdqgnpt,”mkbsumPxxb,mlqrmqbumvppymkxsnsydmgrmqpekpna
gqer.dqmbmdepbgmfbegmramgqskmkfpp q,m“qrlmurmtr.moyrlmgqbgmXewmXbegsy
usumyrgmkfpbomtpkgpeubt?”

“ pegbsynt,”mepfnspumqp,mk.efesipu,m“Smurmyrgmbvkrn.gpntmoyrlmsg;mv.gmsg
xbtmvpmsyapeepuwmLbkmyrgmkqpmgqpmlqrnpmubtmlsgqmtr.?”

“ rxp,”mkbsumkqp,m“Smlsnnmgpnnmtr.mkrxpgqsyd,msymepg.eymaremlqbg
tr.mqbcpmgrnumxpwmQpmusumkfpbomtpkgpeubt--gqbgmsk,mqpmlergp,mbyumlbk
epa.kpuw”

Gqskmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmvpmepfpbgpumvparepmsgm r.numvpmvpnspcpu;mbyumXew
Oysdqgnptmb g.bnntmnrropumepumlsgqmk.efesipmbyumuskfnpbk.ep,mbkmqpmkgrru
.f,msymgbnnmsyusdybgsry,mbyumkbsu,

“GqpymkqpmskmbmdepbgpemksxfnpgrymgqbymSmpcpemvpnspcpumqpewmLqbgmskmgqp
arrnskqmdsenmbvr.g?”

“Rq!mgrmvpmk.ep,”m espumPxxb,m“sgmskmbnlbtkmsy rxfepqpyksvnpmgrmbmxby
gqbgmbmlrxbymkqr.numpcpemepa.kpmbymraapemramxbeesbdpwmBmxbymbnlbtk
sxbdsypkmbmlrxbymgrmvpmepbutmarembytmvrutmlqrmbkokmqpew”

“Yrykpykp!mbmxbymurpkmyrgmsxbdsypmbytmk. qmgqsydwmV.gmlqbgmskmgqp
xpbysydmramgqsk?mQbeespgmKxsgqmepa.kpmErvpegmXbegsy?mxbuypkk,msamsgmsk
kr;mv.gmSmqrfpmtr.mbepmxskgbopyw”

“Smkblmqpembyklpe!--yrgqsydm r.numvpm npbepew”

“Tr.mkblmqpembyklpe!--tr.mlergpmqpembyklpemgrrwmPxxb,mgqskmskmtr.e
ursydwmTr.mfpek.bupumqpemgrmepa.kpmqsxw”

“ByumsamSmusu,m(lqs q,mqrlpcpe,mSmbxmabemaerxmbnnrlsyd)mSmkqr.numyrg
appnmgqbgmSmqbumurypmlerydwmXewmXbegsymskmbmcpetmepkfp gbvnpmtr.ydmxby,
v.gmSm byyrgmbuxsgmqsxmgrmvpmQbeespg'kmph.bn;mbyumbxmebgqpemk.efesipu
syuppumgqbgmqpmkqr.numqbcpmcpyg.epumgrmbuuepkkmqpewmVtmtr.emb  r.yg,mqp
urpkmkppxmgrmqbcpmqbumkrxpmk e.fnpkwmSgmskmbmfsgtmgqbgmgqptmlpepmpcpe
drgmrcpew”

“YrgmQbeespg'kmph.bn!”mpj nbsxpumXewmOysdqgnptmnr.untmbyumlbexnt;mbyu
lsgqm bnxpembkfpesgt,mbuupu,mbmaplmxrxpygkmbagpelbeuk,m“Yr,mqpmsk
yrgmqpemph.bnmsyuppu,maremqpmskmbkmx. qmqpemk.fpesremsymkpykpmbkmsy
ksg.bgsrywmPxxb,mtr.emsyabg.bgsrymbvr.gmgqbgmdsenmvnsyukmtr.wmLqbgmbep
QbeespgmKxsgq'km nbsxk,mpsgqpemramvsegq,mybg.epmrempu. bgsry,mgrmbyt
 ryypjsrymqsdqpemgqbymErvpegmXbegsy?mKqpmskmgqpmybg.ebnmub.dqgpemra
yrvrutmoyrlkmlqrx,mlsgqmfervbvntmyrmkpggnpumfercsksrymbgmbnn,mbyu
 pegbsyntmyrmepkfp gbvnpmepnbgsrykwmKqpmskmoyrlymryntmbkmfbenr.e-vrbeupe
bgmbm rxxrymk qrrnwmKqpmskmyrgmbmkpyksvnpmdsen,myrembmdsenmrambyt
syarexbgsrywmKqpmqbkmvppymgb.dqgmyrgqsydm.kpa.n,mbyumskmgrrmtr.ydmbyu
grrmksxfnpmgrmqbcpmb h.sepumbytmgqsydmqpekpnawmBgmqpembdpmkqpm bymqbcp
yrmpjfpespy p,mbyumlsgqmqpemnsggnpmlsg,mskmyrgmcpetmnsopntmpcpemgrmqbcp
bytmgqbgm bymbcbsnmqpewmKqpmskmfepggt,mbyumkqpmskmdrrumgpxfpepu,mbyu
gqbgmskmbnnwmXtmryntmk e.fnpmsymbucsksydmgqpmxbg qmlbkmrymqskmb  r.yg,
bkmvpsydmvpypbgqmqskmupkpegk,mbyumbmvbum ryypjsrymaremqsxwmSmapngmgqbg,
bkmgrmareg.yp,msymbnnmfervbvsnsgtmqpmxsdqgmurmx. qmvpggpe;mbyumgqbgmbk
grmbmebgsrybnm rxfbysrymrem.kpa.nmqpnfxbgp,mqpm r.numyrgmurmlrekpwmV.gmS
 r.numyrgmepbkrymkrmgrmbmxbymsymnrcp,mbyumlbkmlsnnsydmgrmge.kgmgrmgqpep
vpsydmyrmqbexmsymqpe,mgrmqpemqbcsydmgqbgmkregmramuskfrksgsry,mlqs q,msy
drrumqbyuk,mnsopmqsk,mxsdqgmvpmpbksntmnpumbesdqgmbyumg.eymr.gmcpetmlpnnw
Gqpmbucbygbdpmramgqpmxbg qmSmapngmgrmvpmbnnmrymqpemksup;mbyumqbumyrgmgqp
kxbnnpkgmur.vgm(yremqbcpmSmyrl)mgqbgmgqpepmlr.numvpmbmdpypebnm et-r.g
.frymqpempjgepxpmdrrumn. owmPcpym_tr.e_mkbgskab gsrymSmxbupmk.epmraw
Sgm erkkpumxtmxsyumsxxpusbgpntmgqbgmtr.mlr.numyrgmepdepgmtr.emaespyu'k
npbcsydmQsdqv.et,maremgqpmkbopmramqpemvpsydmkpggnpumkrmlpnnwmSmepxpxvpe
kbtsydmgrmxtkpna,m'PcpymPxxb,mlsgqmbnnmqpemfbegsbnsgtmaremQbeespg,mlsnn
gqsyomgqskmbmdrrumxbg qw'”

“Sm byyrgmqpnfmlryupesydmbgmtr.emoyrlsydmkrmnsggnpmramPxxbmbkmgrmkbtmbyt
k. qmgqsydwmLqbg!mgqsyombmabexpe,m(byumlsgqmbnnmqskmkpykpmbyumbnnmqsk
xpesgmXewmXbegsymskmyrgqsydmxrep,)mbmdrrumxbg qmaremxtmsygsxbgpmaespyu!
YrgmepdepgmqpemnpbcsydmQsdqv.etmaremgqpmkbopmramxbeetsydmbmxbymlqrx
Sm r.numypcpembuxsgmbkmbymb h.bsygby pmramxtmrly!mSmlryupemtr.mkqr.nu
gqsyomsgmfrkksvnpmaremxpmgrmqbcpmk. qmappnsydkwmSmbkk.epmtr.mxsypmbep
cpetmusaapepygwmSmx.kgmgqsyomtr.emkgbgpxpygmvtmyrmxpbykmabsewmTr.mbep
yrgmz.kgmgrmQbeespg'km nbsxkwmGqptmlr.numvpmpkgsxbgpumcpetmusaapepygnt
vtmrgqpekmbkmlpnnmbkmxtkpna;mXewmXbegsymxbtmvpmgqpmes qpkgmramgqpmglr,
v.gmqpmskm.yur.vgpuntmqpemsyapesrembkmgrmebyomsymkr spgtw--Gqpmkfqpepmsy
lqs qmkqpmxrcpkmskmx. qmbvrcpmqskw--Sgmlr.numvpmbmupdebubgsryw”

“Bmupdebubgsrymgrmsnnpdsgsxb tmbyumsdyreby p,mgrmvpmxbeespumgrmb
epkfp gbvnp,msygpnnsdpygmdpygnpxby-abexpe!”

“Bkmgrmgqpm se .xkgby pkmramqpemvsegq,mgqr.dqmsymbmnpdbnmkpykpmkqpmxbt
vpm bnnpumYrvrut,msgmlsnnmyrgmqrnumsym rxxrymkpykpwmKqpmskmyrgmgrmfbt
aremgqpmraapy pmramrgqpek,mvtmvpsydmqpnumvpnrlmgqpmnpcpnmramgqrkpmlsgq
lqrxmkqpmskmver.dqgm.fw--Gqpepm bymk be pntmvpmbmur.vgmgqbgmqpemabgqpe
skmbmdpygnpxby--byumbmdpygnpxbymramareg.ypw--Qpembnnrlby pmsk
cpetmnsvpebn;myrgqsydmqbkmpcpemvppymde.udpumaremqpemsxfercpxpygmre
 rxaregw--Gqbgmkqpmskmbmdpygnpxby'kmub.dqgpe,mskmsyu.vsgbvnpmgrmxp;mgqbg
kqpmbkkr sbgpkmlsgqmdpygnpxpy'kmub.dqgpek,myrmryp,mSmbffepqpyu,mlsnn
upytw--Kqpmskmk.fpesremgrmXewmErvpegmXbegsyw”

“Lqrpcpemxsdqgmvpmqpemfbepygk,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt,m“lqrpcpemxbtmqbcp
qbumgqpm qbedpmramqpe,msgmurpkmyrgmbffpbemgrmqbcpmvppymbytmfbegmra
gqpsemfnbymgrmsygeru. pmqpemsygrmlqbgmtr.mlr.num bnnmdrrumkr spgtwmBagpe
ep pscsydmbmcpetmsyusaapepygmpu. bgsrymkqpmskmnpagmsymXekwmDruubeu'k
qbyukmgrmkqsagmbkmkqpm by;--grmxrcp,msymkqreg,msymXekwmDruubeu'kmnsyp,
grmqbcpmXekwmDruubeu'kmb h.bsygby pwmQpemaespyukmpcsupygntmgqr.dqg
gqskmdrrumpyr.dqmaremqpe;mbyumsgm_lbk_mdrrumpyr.dqwmKqpmupksepumyrgqsyd
vpggpemqpekpnawmGsnnmtr.m qrkpmgrmg.eymqpemsygrmbmaespyu,mqpemxsyumqbu
yrmuskgbkgpmaremqpemrlymkpg,myrembytmbxvsgsrymvptryumsgwmKqpmlbkmbk
qbfftmbkmfrkksvnpmlsgqmgqpmXbegsykmsymgqpmk.xxpewmKqpmqbumyrmkpykpmra
k.fpesresgtmgqpywmSamkqpmqbkmsgmyrl,mtr.mqbcpmdscpymsgwmTr.mqbcpmvppymyr
aespyumgrmQbeespgmKxsgq,mPxxbwmErvpegmXbegsymlr.numypcpemqbcpmfer ppupu
krmabe,msamqpmqbumyrgmapngmfpek.bupumramqpemyrgmvpsydmusksy nsypumgr
qsxwmSmoyrlmqsxmlpnnwmQpmqbkmgrrmx. qmepbnmappnsydmgrmbuuepkkmbyt
lrxbymrymgqpmqbfqbibeumramkpnaskqmfbkksrywmByumbkmgrm ry psg,mqpmsk
gqpmabegqpkgmaerxmsgmrambytmxbymSmoyrlwmUpfpyum.frymsgmqpmqbu
py r.ebdpxpygw”

Sgmlbkmxrkgm rycpyspygmgrmPxxbmyrgmgrmxbopmbmusep gmepfntmgrmgqsk
bkkpegsry;mkqpm qrkpmebgqpemgrmgbopm.fmqpemrlymnsypmramgqpmk.vzp g
bdbsyw

“Tr.mbepmbmcpetmlbexmaespyumgrmXewmXbegsy;mv.g,mbkmSmkbsumvparep,
bepm.yz.kgmgrmQbeespgwmQbeespg'km nbsxkmgrmxbeetmlpnnmbepmyrgmkr
 rygpxfgsvnpmbkmtr.mepfepkpygmgqpxwmKqpmskmyrgmbm npcpemdsen,mv.gmkqp
qbkmvpggpemkpykpmgqbymtr.mbepmblbepmra,mbyumurpkmyrgmupkpecpmgrmqbcpmqpe
.yupekgbyusydmkfropymramkrmknsdqgsydntwmLbscsydmgqbgmfrsyg,mqrlpcpe,mbyu
k.ffrksydmqpemgrmvp,mbkmtr.mupk esvpmqpe,mryntmfepggtmbyumdrru-ybg.epu,
npgmxpmgpnnmtr.,mgqbgmsymgqpmupdeppmkqpmfrkkpkkpkmgqpx,mgqptmbepmyrg
gescsbnmep rxxpyubgsrykmgrmgqpmlrenumsymdpypebn,maremkqpmsk,msymab g,mb
vpb.gsa.nmdsen,mbyumx.kgmvpmgqr.dqgmkrmvtmysypgt-ysypmfprfnpmr.gmramby
q.yuepu;mbyumgsnnmsgmbffpbekmgqbgmxpymbepmx. qmxrepmfqsnrkrfqs mrymgqp
k.vzp gmramvpb.gtmgqbymgqptmbepmdpypebnntmk.ffrkpu;mgsnnmgqptmurmabnn
symnrcpmlsgqmlpnn-syarexpumxsyukmsykgpbumramqbyukrxpmab pk,mbmdsen,mlsgq
k. qmnrcpnsypkkmbkmQbeespg,mqbkmbm pegbsygtmramvpsydmbuxsepumbyumkr.dqg
bagpe,mramqbcsydmgqpmfrlpemram q.ksydmaerxmbxrydmxbyt,m rykph.pygntmb
 nbsxmgrmvpmys pwmQpemdrru-ybg.ep,mgrr,mskmyrgmkrmcpetmknsdqgmbm nbsx,
 rxfepqpyusyd,mbkmsgmurpk,mepbn,mgqrer.dqmklppgypkkmramgpxfpembyu
xbyype,mbmcpetmq.xvnpmrfsysrymramqpekpna,mbyumbmdepbgmepbusypkkmgr
vpmfnpbkpumlsgqmrgqpemfprfnpwmSmbxmcpetmx. qmxskgbopymsamtr.emkpjmsy
dpypebnmlr.numyrgmgqsyomk. qmvpb.gt,mbyumk. qmgpxfpe,mgqpmqsdqpkgm nbsxk
bmlrxbym r.numfrkkpkkw”

“.frymxtmlreu,mPxxb,mgrmqpbemtr.mbv.ksydmgqpmepbkrymtr.mqbcp,mskmbnxrkg
pyr.dqmgrmxbopmxpmgqsyomkrmgrrwmVpggpemvpmlsgqr.gmkpykp,mgqbymxskbffnt
sgmbkmtr.murw”

“Grmvpmk.ep!”m espumkqpmfnbta.nntwm“Smoyrlm_gqbg_mskmgqpmappnsydmra
tr.mbnnwmSmoyrlmgqbgmk. qmbmdsenmbkmQbeespgmskmpjb gntmlqbgmpcpet
xbymupnsdqgkmsy--lqbgmbgmry pmvplsg qpkmqskmkpykpkmbyumkbgskaspkmqsk
z.udxpygwmRq!mQbeespgmxbtmfs ombyum q.kpwmLpepmtr.,mtr.ekpna,mpcpemgr
xbeet,mkqpmskmgqpmcpetmlrxbymaremtr.wmByumskmkqp,mbgmkpcpygppy,mz.kg
pygpesydmsygrmnsap,mz.kgmvpdsyysydmgrmvpmoyrly,mgrmvpmlryupepumbg
vp b.kpmkqpmurpkmyrgmb  pfgmgqpmasekgmraapemkqpmep pscpk?mYr--febtmnpg
qpemqbcpmgsxpmgrmnrrombvr.gmqpew”

“Smqbcpmbnlbtkmgqr.dqgmsgmbmcpetmarrnskqmsygsxb t,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt
fepkpygnt,m“gqr.dqmSmqbcpmopfgmxtmgqr.dqgkmgrmxtkpna;mv.gmSmyrlmfpe pscp
gqbgmsgmlsnnmvpmbmcpetm.yareg.ybgpmrypmaremQbeespgwmTr.mlsnnmf.aamqpem.f
lsgqmk. qmsupbkmramqpemrlymvpb.gt,mbyumramlqbgmkqpmqbkmbm nbsxmgr,mgqbg,
symbmnsggnpmlqsnp,myrvrutmlsgqsymqpemepb qmlsnnmvpmdrrumpyr.dqmaremqpew
Cbysgtmlreosydmrymbmlpbomqpbu,mferu. pkmpcpetmkregmramxsk qspawmYrgqsyd
krmpbktmbkmarembmtr.ydmnbutmgrmebskpmqpempjfp gbgsrykmgrrmqsdqwmXskk
QbeespgmKxsgqmxbtmyrgmasyumraapekmramxbeesbdpmanrlmsymkrmabkg,mgqr.dq
kqpmskmbmcpetmfepggtmdsenwmXpymramkpykp,mlqbgpcpemtr.mxbtm q.kpmgr
kbt,murmyrgmlbygmksnntmlscpkwmXpymramabxsntmlr.numyrgmvpmcpetmaryumra
 ryyp gsydmgqpxkpncpkmlsgqmbmdsenmramk. qmrvk .esgt--byumxrkgmfe.upyg
xpymlr.numvpmbaebsumramgqpmsy rycpyspy pmbyumuskdeb pmgqptmxsdqgmvp
sycrncpumsy,mlqpymgqpmxtkgpetmramqpemfbepygbdpm bxpmgrmvpmepcpbnpuwmNpg
qpemxbeetmErvpegmXbegsy,mbyumkqpmskmkbap,mepkfp gbvnp,mbyumqbfftmare
pcpe;mv.gmsamtr.mpy r.ebdpmqpemgrmpjfp gmgrmxbeetmdepbgnt,mbyumgpb qmqpe
grmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqmyrgqsydmnpkkmgqbymbmxbymram rykph.py pmbyumnbedp
areg.yp,mkqpmxbtmvpmbmfbenr.e-vrbeupembgmXekwmDruubeu'kmbnnmgqpmepkg
ramqpemnsap--re,mbgmnpbkg,m(aremQbeespgmKxsgqmskmbmdsenmlqrmlsnnmxbeet
krxpvrutmremrgqpe,)mgsnnmkqpmderlmupkfpebgp,mbyumskmdnbumgrm bg qmbgmgqp
rnumlesgsyd-xbkgpe'kmkryw”

“Lpmgqsyomkrmcpetmusaapepygntmrymgqskmfrsyg,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mgqbgmgqpep
 bymvpmyrm.kpmsym bycbkksydmsgwmLpmkqbnnmryntmvpmxbosydmpb qmrgqpemxrep
bydetwmV.gmbkmgrmxtm_npggsyd_mqpemxbeetmErvpegmXbegsy,msgmskmsxfrkksvnp;
kqpmqbkmepa.kpumqsx,mbyumkrmup supunt,mSmgqsyo,mbkmx.kgmfepcpygmbyt
kp ryumbffns bgsrywmKqpmx.kgmbvsupmvtmgqpmpcsnmramqbcsydmepa.kpumqsx,
lqbgpcpemsgmxbtmvp;mbyumbkmgrmgqpmepa.kbnmsgkpna,mSmlsnnmyrgmfepgpyumgr
kbtmgqbgmSmxsdqgmyrgmsyan.py pmqpembmnsggnp;mv.gmSmbkk.epmtr.mgqpep
lbkmcpetmnsggnpmaremxpmremarembytmvrutmgrmurwmQskmbffpbeby pmskmkrmx. q
bdbsykgmqsx,mbyumqskmxbyypemkrmvbu,mgqbgmsamkqpmpcpemlpepmuskfrkpumgr
abcr.emqsx,mkqpmskmyrgmyrlwmSm bymsxbdsyp,mgqbgmvparepmkqpmqbumkppy
bytmvrutmk.fpesre,mkqpmxsdqgmgrnpebgpmqsxwmQpmlbkmgqpmvergqpemramqpe
aespyuk,mbyumqpmgrromfbsykmgrmfnpbkpmqpe;mbyumbngrdpgqpe,mqbcsydmkppy
yrvrutmvpggpem(gqbgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymqskmdepbgmbkkskgbyg)mkqpmxsdqgmyrg,
lqsnpmkqpmlbkmbgmBvvpt-Xsnn,masyumqsxmuskbdeppbvnpwmV.gmgqpm bkp
skmbngpepumyrlwmKqpmoyrlkmyrlmlqbgmdpygnpxpymbep;mbyumyrgqsydmv.gmb
dpygnpxbymsympu. bgsrymbyumxbyypemqbkmbytm qby pmlsgqmQbeespgw”

“Yrykpykp,mpeebygmyrykpykp,mbkmpcpemlbkmgbnopu!”m espumXew
Oysdqgnptw--“ErvpegmXbegsy'kmxbyypekmqbcpmkpykp,mksy pesgt,mbyu
drru-q.xr.emgrmep rxxpyumgqpx;mbyumqskmxsyumqbkmxrepmge.pmdpygsnsgtmgqby
QbeespgmKxsgqm r.num.yupekgbyuw”

Pxxbmxbupmyrmbyklpe,mbyumgespumgrmnrrom qppea.nntm.y ry peypu,mv.gmlbk
epbnntmappnsydm.y rxaregbvnpmbyumlbygsydmqsxmcpetmx. qmgrmvpmdrypwmKqp
usumyrgmepfpygmlqbgmkqpmqbumuryp;mkqpmkgsnnmgqr.dqgmqpekpnambmvpggpe
z.udpmramk. qmbmfrsygmramapxbnpmesdqgmbyumepasypxpygmgqbymqpm r.numvp;
v.gmtpgmkqpmqbumbmkregmramqbvsg.bnmepkfp gmaremqskmz.udxpygmsymdpypebn,
lqs qmxbupmqpemusknsopmqbcsydmsgmkrmnr.untmbdbsykgmqpe;mbyumgrmqbcpmqsx
ksggsydmz.kgmrffrksgpmgrmqpemsymbydetmkgbgp,mlbkmcpetmuskbdeppbvnpw
Krxpmxsy.gpkmfbkkpumsymgqskm.yfnpbkbygmksnpy p,mlsgqmryntmrypmbggpxfg
rymPxxb'kmksupmgrmgbnomramgqpmlpbgqpe,mv.gmqpmxbupmyrmbyklpewmQpmlbk
gqsyosydwmGqpmepk.ngmramqskmgqr.dqgkmbffpbepumbgmnbkgmsymgqpkpmlreukw

“ErvpegmXbegsymqbkmyrmdepbgmnrkk--samqpm bymv.gmgqsyomkr;mbyumSmqrfpmsg
lsnnmyrgmvpmnrydmvparepmqpmurpkwmTr.emcsplkmaremQbeespgmbepmvpkgmoyrly
grmtr.ekpna;mv.gmbkmtr.mxbopmyrmkp epgmramtr.emnrcpmramxbg q-xbosyd,msg
skmabsemgrmk.ffrkpmgqbgmcsplk,mbyumfnbyk,mbyumferzp gkmtr.mqbcp;--byumbk
bmaespyumSmkqbnnmz.kgmqsygmgrmtr.mgqbgmsamPngrymskmgqpmxby,mSmgqsyomsg
lsnnmvpmbnnmnbvr.emsymcbsyw”

Pxxbmnb.dqpumbyumusk nbsxpuwmQpm rygsy.pu,

“Upfpyum.frymsg,mPngrymlsnnmyrgmurwmPngrymskmbmcpetmdrrumkregmramxby,
byumbmcpetmepkfp gbvnpmcs bemramQsdqv.et,mv.gmyrgmbgmbnnmnsopntmgrmxbop
bymsxfe.upygmxbg qwmQpmoyrlkmgqpmcbn.pmrambmdrrumsy rxpmbkmlpnnmbkmbyt
vrutwmPngrymxbtmgbnomkpygsxpygbnnt,mv.gmqpmlsnnmb gmebgsrybnntwmQpmsk
bkmlpnnmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqskmrlym nbsxk,mbkmtr.m bymvpmlsgqmQbeespg'kw
Qpmoyrlkmgqbgmqpmskmbmcpetmqbyukrxpmtr.ydmxby,mbyumbmdepbgmabcr.esgp
lqpepcpemqpmdrpk;mbyumaerxmqskmdpypebnmlbtmramgbnosydmsym.yepkpecpu
xrxpygk,mlqpymgqpepmbepmryntmxpymfepkpyg,mSmbxm rycsy pumgqbgmqpmurpk
yrgmxpbymgrmgqerlmqsxkpnamblbtwmSmqbcpmqpbeumqsxmkfpbomlsgqmdepbg
bysxbgsrymrambmnbedpmabxsntmramtr.ydmnbuspkmgqbgmqskmkskgpekmbep
sygsxbgpmlsgq,mlqrmqbcpmbnnmglpygtmgqr.kbyumfr.yukmbfsp pw”

“Smbxmcpetmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmtr.,”mkbsumPxxb,mnb.dqsydmbdbsywm“SamSmqbu
kpgmxtmqpbegmrymXewmPngry'kmxbeetsydmQbeespg,msgmlr.numqbcpmvppymcpet
osyumgrmrfpymxtmptpk;mv.gmbgmfepkpygmSmryntmlbygmgrmoppfmQbeespgmgr
xtkpnawmSmqbcpmurypmlsgqmxbg q-xbosydmsyuppuwmSm r.numypcpemqrfpmgr
ph.bnmxtmrlymursydkmbgmEbyubnnkwmSmkqbnnmnpbcpmraamlqsnpmSmbxmlpnnw”

“Drrumxreysydmgrmtr.,”--kbsumqp,mesksydmbyumlbnosydmraambve.fgntwmQpmlbk
cpetmx. qmcpjpuwmQpmapngmgqpmuskbffrsygxpygmramgqpmtr.ydmxby,mbyumlbk
xregsaspumgrmqbcpmvppymgqpmxpbykmramferxrgsydmsg,mvtmgqpmkby gsrymqpmqbu
dscpy;mbyumgqpmfbegmlqs qmqpmlbkmfpek.bupumPxxbmqbumgbopymsymgqpmbaabse,
lbkmfercrosydmqsxmpj ppusydntw

Pxxbmepxbsypumsymbmkgbgpmramcpjbgsrymgrr;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmxrep
syuskgsy gypkkmsymgqpm b.kpkmramqpe'k,mgqbymsymqskwmKqpmusumyrgmbnlbtk
appnmkrmbvkrn.gpntmkbgskaspumlsgqmqpekpna,mkrmpygsepntm rycsy pumgqbg
qpemrfsysrykmlpepmesdqgmbyumqpembucpekbet'kmleryd,mbkmXewmOysdqgnptwmQp
lbnopumraamsymxrepm rxfnpgpmkpna-bffervbgsrymgqbymqpmnpagmaremqpewmKqp
lbkmyrgmkrmxbgpesbnntm bkgmurly,mqrlpcpe,mv.gmgqbgmbmnsggnpmgsxpmbyu
gqpmepg.eymramQbeespgmlpepmcpetmbuph.bgpmepkgrebgscpkwmQbeespg'kmkgbtsyd
blbtmkrmnrydmlbkmvpdsyysydmgrmxbopmqpem.ypbktwmGqpmfrkksvsnsgtmramgqp
tr.ydmxby'km rxsydmgrmXekwmDruubeu'kmgqbgmxreysyd,mbyumxppgsydmlsgq
Qbeespgmbyumfnpbusydmqskmrlym b.kp,mdbcpmbnbexsydmsupbkwmGqpmuepbu
ramk. qmbmabsn.epmbagpembnnmvp bxpmgqpmferxsypygm.ypbksypkk;mbyumlqpy
Qbeespgmbffpbepu,mbyumsymcpetmdrrumkfsesgk,mbyumlsgqr.gmqbcsydmbyt
k. qmepbkrymgrmdscpmaremqpemnrydmbvkpy p,mkqpmapngmbmkbgskab gsrymlqs q
kpggnpumqpemlsgqmqpemrlymxsyu,mbyum rycsy pumqpe,mgqbgmnpgmXew
Oysdqgnptmgqsyomremkbtmlqbgmqpmlr.nu,mkqpmqbumurypmyrgqsydmlqs qmlrxby'k
aespyukqsfmbyumlrxby'kmappnsydkmlr.numyrgmz.kgsatw

Qpmqbumaesdqgpypumqpembmnsggnpmbvr.gmXewmPngry;mv.gmlqpymkqpm ryksupepu
gqbgmXewmOysdqgnptm r.numyrgmqbcpmrvkpecpumqsxmbkmkqpmqbumuryp,mypsgqpe
lsgqmgqpmsygpepkg,myrem(kqpmx.kgmvpmbnnrlpumgrmgpnnmqpekpna,msymkfsgpmra
XewmOysdqgnpt'kmfepgpyksryk)mlsgqmgqpmkosnnmramk. qmbymrvkpecpemrymk. q
bmh.pkgsrymbkmqpekpna,mgqbgmqpmqbumkfropymsgmqbkgsntmbyumsymbydpe,mkqp
lbkmbvnpmgrmvpnspcp,mgqbgmqpmqbumebgqpemkbsumlqbgmqpmlskqpumepkpyga.nnt
grmvpmge.p,mgqbymlqbgmqpmoyplmbytmgqsydmbvr.gwmQpm pegbsyntmxsdqgmqbcp
qpbeumXewmPngrymkfpbomlsgqmxrepm.yepkpecpmgqbymkqpmqbumpcpemuryp,mbyu
XewmPngrymxsdqgmyrgmvpmrambymsxfe.upyg,msy ryksupebgpmuskfrksgsrymbkmgr
xryptmxbggpek;mqpmxsdqgmybg.ebnntmvpmebgqpembggpygscpmgqbymrgqpelskp
grmgqpx;mv.gmgqpy,mXewmOysdqgnptmusumyrgmxbopmu.pmbnnrlby pmaremgqp
syan.py pmrambmkgerydmfbkksrymbgmlbemlsgqmbnnmsygpepkgpumxrgscpkwmXew
Oysdqgnptmkblmyrmk. qmfbkksry,mbyumram r.ekpmgqr.dqgmyrgqsydmramsgk
paap gk;mv.gmkqpmkblmgrrmx. qmramsgmgrmappnmbmur.vgmramsgkmrcpe rxsyd
bytmqpksgbgsrykmgqbgmbmepbkrybvnpmfe.upy pmxsdqgmresdsybnntmk.ddpkg;mbyu
xrepmgqbymbmepbkrybvnp,mvp rxsydmupdeppmramfe.upy p,mkqpmlbkmcpetmk.ep
usumyrgmvpnrydmgrmXewmPngryw

Qbeespg'km qppea.nmnrrombyumxbyypempkgbvnskqpumqpek:mkqpm bxpmvb o,myrg
grmgqsyomramXewmXbegsy,mv.gmgrmgbnomramXewmPngrywmXskkmYbkqmqbumvppy
gpnnsydmqpemkrxpgqsyd,mlqs qmkqpmepfpbgpumsxxpusbgpntmlsgqmdepbg
upnsdqgwmXewmFpeetmqbumvppymgrmXekwmDruubeu'kmgrmbggpyumbmks om qsnu,
byumXskkmYbkqmqbumkppymqsx,mbyumqpmqbumgrnumXskkmYbkq,mgqbgmbkmqpmlbk
 rxsydmvb omtpkgpeubtmaerxm nbtgrymFbeo,mqpmqbumxpgmXewmPngry,mbyu
ar.yumgrmqskmdepbgmk.efesip,mgqbgmXewmPngrymlbkmb g.bnntmrymqskmerbu
grmNryury,mbyumyrgmxpbysydmgrmepg.eymgsnnmgqpmxreerl,mgqr.dqmsgmlbkmgqp
lqskg- n.vmysdqg,mlqs qmqpmqbumvppymypcpemoyrlymgrmxskkmvparep;mbyumXew
Fpeetmqbumepxrykgebgpumlsgqmqsxmbvr.gmsg,mbyumgrnumqsxmqrlmkqbvvtmsg
lbkmsymqsx,mgqpsemvpkgmfnbtpe,mgrmbvkpygmqsxkpna,mbyumgespumcpetmx. qmgr
fpek.bupmqsxmgrmf.gmraamqskmzr.eyptmryntmrypmubt;mv.gmsgmlr.numyrg
ur;mXewmPngrymqbumvppymupgpexsypumgrmdrmry,mbyumqbumkbsumsymbm_cpet_
_fbegs .nbe_mlbtmsyuppu,mgqbgmqpmlbkmdrsydmrymv.ksypkkmlqs qmqpmlr.nu
yrgmf.gmraamarembytmsyu. pxpygmsymgqpmlrenu;mbyumkrxpgqsydmbvr.gmb
cpetmpycsbvnpm rxxskksry,mbyumvpsydmgqpmvpbepemramkrxpgqsydmpj ppusydnt
fep sr.kwmXewmFpeetm r.numyrgmh.sgpm.yupekgbyumqsx,mv.gmqpmlbkmcpetmk.ep
gqpepmx.kgmvpmbm_nbut_msymgqpm bkp,mbyumqpmgrnumqsxmkr;mbyumXewmPngry
ryntmnrropumcpetm ryk sr.kmbyumkxsnsyd,mbyumerupmraamsymdepbgmkfsesgkw
XskkmYbkqmqbumgrnumqpembnnmgqsk,mbyumqbumgbnopumbmdepbgmupbnmxrepmbvr.g
XewmPngry;mbyumkbsu,mnrrosydmkrmcpetmksdysas bygntmbgmqpe,m“gqbgmkqpmusu
yrgmfepgpyumgrm.yupekgbyumlqbgmqskmv.ksypkkmxsdqgmvp,mv.gmkqpmrynt
oyplmgqbgmbytmlrxbymlqrxmXewmPngrym r.numfepape,mkqpmkqr.numgqsyomgqp
n. ospkgmlrxbymsymgqpmlrenu;mare,mvptryumbmur.vg,mXewmPngrymqbumyrgmqsk
ph.bnmaremvpb.gtmrembdeppbvnpypkkw”



 QBFGPEmSJ


XewmOysdqgnptmxsdqgmh.beepnmlsgqmqpe,mv.gmPxxbm r.numyrgmh.beepnmlsgq
qpekpnawmQpmlbkmkrmx. qmuskfnpbkpu,mgqbgmsgmlbkmnrydpemgqbym.k.bnmvparep
qpm bxpmgrmQbegaspnumbdbsy;mbyumlqpymgqptmusumxppg,mqskmdebcpmnrrok
kqplpumgqbgmkqpmlbkmyrgmaredscpywmKqpmlbkmkreet,mv.gm r.numyrgmepfpygw
Rymgqpm rygebet,mqpemfnbykmbyumfer ppusydkmlpepmxrepmbyumxrepmz.kgsaspu
byumpyupbepumgrmqpemvtmgqpmdpypebnmbffpbeby pkmramgqpmypjgmaplmubtkw

GqpmFs g.ep,mpnpdbygntmaebxpu,m bxpmkbapntmgrmqbyumkrrymbagpemXew
Pngry'kmepg.ey,mbyumvpsydmq.ydmrcpemgqpmxbygpnfsp pmramgqpm rxxry
ksggsyd-errx,mqpmdrgm.fmgrmnrrombgmsg,mbyumksdqpumr.gmqskmqbnamkpygpy pk
rambuxsebgsrymz.kgmbkmqpmr.dqg;mbyumbkmaremQbeespg'kmappnsydk,mgqptmlpep
csksvntmarexsydmgqpxkpncpkmsygrmbkmkgerydmbyumkgpbutmbymbggb qxpygmbk
qpemtr.gqmbyumkregmramxsyumbuxsggpuwmPxxbmlbkmkrrymfpeap gntmkbgskaspu
ramXewmXbegsy'kmvpsydmyrmrgqpelskpmepxpxvpepu,mgqbymbkmqpma.eyskqpumb
 rygebkgmlsgqmXewmPngry,mramgqpm.gxrkgmbucbygbdpmgrmgqpmnbggpew

Qpemcsplkmramsxfercsydmqpemnsggnpmaespyu'kmxsyu,mvtmbmdepbgmupbnmra
.kpa.nmepbusydmbyum rycpekbgsry,mqbumypcpemtpgmnpumgrmxrepmgqbymbmapl
asekgm qbfgpek,mbyumgqpmsygpygsrymramdrsydmrymgr-xreerlwmSgmlbkmx. q
pbkspemgrm qbgmgqbymgrmkg.ut;mx. qmfnpbkbygpemgrmnpgmqpemsxbdsybgsry
ebydpmbyumlreombgmQbeespg'kmareg.yp,mgqbymgrmvpmnbvr.esydmgrmpynbedp
qpem rxfepqpyksrymrempjpe skpmsgmrymkrvpemab gk;mbyumgqpmryntmnsgpebet
f.ek.sgmlqs qmpydbdpumQbeespgmbgmfepkpyg,mgqpmryntmxpygbnmfercsksrymkqp
lbkmxbosydmaremgqpmpcpysydmramnsap,mlbkmgqpm rnnp gsydmbyumgebyk esvsyd
bnnmgqpmesuunpkmrampcpetmkregmgqbgmkqpm r.numxppgmlsgq,msygrmbmgqsy
h.begrmramqrg-fepkkpumfbfpe,mxbupm.fmvtmqpemaespyu,mbyumreybxpygpumlsgq
 sfqpekmbyumgerfqspkw

Symgqskmbdpmramnsgpebg.ep,mk. qm rnnp gsrykmrymbmcpetmdebyumk bnpmbep
yrgm.y rxxrywmXskkmYbkq,mqpbu-gpb qpembgmXekwmDruubeu'k,mqbumlesggpymr.g
bgmnpbkgmgqeppmq.yuepu;mbyumQbeespg,mlqrmqbumgbopymgqpmasekgmqsygmramsg
aerxmqpe,mqrfpu,mlsgqmXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmqpnf,mgrmdpgmbmdepbgmxbytmxrepw
Pxxbmbkkskgpumlsgqmqpemsycpygsry,mxpxretmbyumgbkgp;mbyumbkmQbeespgmlergp
bmcpetmfepggtmqbyu,msgmlbkmnsopntmgrmvpmbymbeebydpxpygmramgqpmasekg
reupe,msymarexmbkmlpnnmbkmh.bygsgtw

XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmbnxrkgmbkmx. qmsygpepkgpumsymgqpmv.ksypkkmbkmgqp
dsenk,mbyumgespumcpetmragpymgrmep rnnp gmkrxpgqsydmlregqmgqpsemf.ggsyd
sywm“Krmxbytm npcpemesuunpkmbkmgqpepm.kpumgrmvpmlqpymqpmlbkmtr.yd--qp
lryupepumqpm r.numyrgmepxpxvpemgqpx!mv.gmqpmqrfpumqpmkqr.numsymgsxpw”
mByumsgmbnlbtkmpyupumsym“Osggt,mbmabsemv.gmaeripymxbsuw”

QskmdrrumaespyumFpeet,mgrr,mlqrxmqpmqbumkfropymgrmrymgqpmk.vzp g,
usumyrgmbgmfepkpygmep rnnp gmbytmgqsydmramgqpmesuunpmosyu;mv.gmqp
qbumupksepumFpeetmgrmvpm.frymgqpmlbg q,mbyumbkmqpmlpygmbvr.gmkrmx. q,
krxpgqsyd,mqpmgqr.dqg,mxsdqgm rxpmaerxmgqbgmh.begpew

Sgmlbkmvtmyrmxpbykmqskmub.dqgpe'kmlskqmgqbgmgqpmsygpnnp gkmramQsdqv.et
symdpypebnmkqr.numvpmf.gm.yupemeph.sksgsrywmXewmPngrymlbkmgqpmryntmryp
lqrkpmbkkskgby pmkqpmbkopuwmQpmlbkmsycsgpumgrm rygesv.gpmbytmepbnntmdrru
pysdxbk,m qbebupk,mrem ry.yue.xkmgqbgmqpmxsdqgmep rnnp g;mbyumkqpmqbu
gqpmfnpbk.epmramkppsydmqsxmxrkgmsygpygntmbgmlreomlsgqmqskmep rnnp gsryk;
byumbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp,mbkmkqpm r.numfpe pscp,mxrkgmpbeypkgntm bepa.nmgqbg
yrgqsydm.ydbnnbyg,myrgqsydmgqbgmusumyrgmvepbgqpmbm rxfnsxpygmgrmgqp
kpjmkqr.numfbkkmqskmnsfkwmGqptmrlpumgrmqsxmgqpsemglrmremgqeppmfrnsgpkg
f.iinpk;mbyumgqpmzrtmbyumpj.ngbgsrymlsgqmlqs qmbgmnbkgmqpmep bnnpu,mbyu
ebgqpemkpygsxpygbnntmep sgpu,mgqbgmlpnn-oyrlym qbebup,

mmmmXtmasekgmurgqmbaans gsrymupyrgp,
mmmmmmLqs qmxtmkp ryumskmupkgsy'umgrmappn
mmmmByumxtmlqrnpmskmgqpmvpkgmbygsurgp
mmmmmmGqbgmbaans gsrymgrmkragpymbyumqpbnw--

xbupmqpemh.sgpmkreetmgrmb oyrlnpudpmgqbgmgqptmqbumgebyk esvpumsgmkrxp
fbdpkmbdrmbnepbutw

“Lqtmlsnnmyrgmtr.mlesgpmrypmtr.ekpnamarem.k,mXewmPngry?”mkbsumkqp;m“gqbg
skmgqpmryntmkp .esgtmaremsgkmaepkqypkk;mbyumyrgqsydm r.numvpmpbkspemgr
tr.w”

“Rqmyr!mqpmqbumypcpemlesggpy,mqbeuntmpcpe,mbytmgqsydmramgqpmosyumsymqsk
nsapwmGqpmkg.fsupkgmapnnrl!mQpmlbkmbaebsumyrgmpcpymXskkmLrruqr.kp”--qp
kgrfgmbmxrxpyg--“remXskkmKxsgqm r.numsykfsepmqsxw”

Gqpmcpetmypjgmubtmqrlpcpemferu. pumkrxpmferramramsykfsebgsrywmQp
 bnnpumarembmaplmxrxpygk,mz.kgmgrmnpbcpmbmfsp pmramfbfpemrymgqpmgbvnp
 rygbsysyd,mbkmqpmkbsu,mbm qbebup,mlqs qmbmaespyumramqskmqbumbuuepkkpu
grmbmtr.ydmnbut,mgqpmrvzp gmramqskmbuxsebgsry,mv.gmlqs q,maerxmqsk
xbyype,mPxxbmlbkmsxxpusbgpntm rycsy pumx.kgmvpmqskmrlyw

“SmurmyrgmraapemsgmaremXskkmKxsgq'km rnnp gsry,”mkbsumqpwm“Vpsydmxt
aespyu'k,mSmqbcpmyrmesdqgmgrmpjfrkpmsgmsymbytmupdeppmgrmgqpmf.vns mptp,
v.gmfpeqbfkmtr.mxbtmyrgmusknsopmnrrosydmbgmsgw”

Gqpmkfpp qmlbkmxrepmgrmPxxbmgqbymgrmQbeespg,mlqs qmPxxbm r.nu
.yupekgbyuwmGqpepmlbkmuppfm ryk sr.kypkkmbvr.gmqsx,mbyumqpmar.yu
sgmpbkspemgrmxppgmqpemptpmgqbymqpemaespyu'kwmQpmlbkmdrypmgqpmypjg
xrxpyg:--bagpembyrgqpemxrxpyg'kmfb.kp,

“Gbopmsg,”mkbsumPxxb,mkxsnsyd,mbyumf.kqsydmgqpmfbfpemgrlbeuk
Qbeespg--“sgmskmaremtr.wmGbopmtr.emrlyw”

V.gmQbeespgmlbkmsymbmgepxre,mbyum r.numyrgmgr. qmsg;mbyumPxxb,mypcpe
nrgqmgrmvpmasekg,mlbkmrvnsdpumgrmpjbxsypmsgmqpekpnaw

mmmmmmmmGrmXskk--

mmmmmmmmmm QBEBUPw

mmmmXtmasekgmuskfnbtkmgqpmlpbngqmbyumfrxfmramosydk,
mmmmmmNreukmramgqpmpbegq!mgqpsemn.j.etmbyumpbkpw
mmmmByrgqpemcsplmramxby,mxtmkp ryumvesydk,
mmmmmmVpqrnumqsxmgqpep,mgqpmxrybe qmramgqpmkpbk!

mmmmV.gmbq!m.ysgpu,mlqbgmepcpekpmlpmqbcp!
mmmmmmXby'kmvrbkgpumfrlpembyumaeppurx,mbnnmbepmanrly;
mmmmNreumramgqpmpbegqmbyumkpb,mqpmvpyukmbmknbcp,
mmmmmmByumlrxby,mnrcpntmlrxby,mepsdykmbnrypw

mmmmmmGqtmepbutmlsgmgqpmlreumlsnnmkrrymk.ffnt,
mmmmmmXbtmsgkmbffercbnmvpbxmsymgqbgmkragmptp!

Kqpm bkgmqpemptpmrcpemsg,mfryupepu,m b.dqgmgqpmxpbysyd,mepbumsgmgqer.dq
bdbsymgrmvpmh.sgpm pegbsy,mbyumh.sgpmxskgepkkmramgqpmnsypk,mbyumgqpy
fbkksydmsgmgrmQbeespg,mkbgmqbffsntmkxsnsyd,mbyumkbtsydmgrmqpekpna,mlqsnp
Qbeespgmlbkmf.iinsydmrcpemgqpmfbfpemsymbnnmgqpm rya.ksrymramqrfpmbyu
u.nypkk,m“Cpetmlpnn,mXewmPngry,mcpetmlpnnmsyuppuwmSmqbcpmepbumlrekp
 qbebupkwm_ r.egkqsf_--bmcpetmdrrumqsygwmSmdscpmtr.m epusgmaremsgwmGqsk
skmappnsydmtr.emlbtwmGqskmskmkbtsydmcpetmfnbsynt--'Febt,mXskkmKxsgq,
dscpmxpmnpbcpmgrmfbtmxtmbuuepkkpkmgrmtr.wmBffercpmxtm qbebupmbyumxt
sygpygsrykmsymgqpmkbxpmdnby pw'

mmmmmmXbtmsgkmbffercbnmvpbxmsymgqbgmkragmptp!

Qbeespgmpjb gntwmKragmskmgqpmcpetmlreumaremqpemptp--rambnnmpfsgqpgk,mgqp
z.kgpkgmgqbgm r.numvpmdscpyw

mmmmmmGqtmepbutmlsgmgqpmlreumlsnnmkrrymk.ffntw

Q.xfq--Qbeespg'kmepbutmlsg!mBnnmgqpmvpggpewmBmxbymx.kgmvpmcpetmx. qmsy
nrcp,msyuppu,mgrmupk esvpmqpemkrwmBq!mXewmOysdqgnpt,mSmlskqmtr.mqbumgqp
vpypasgmramgqsk;mSmgqsyomgqskmlr.num rycsy pmtr.wmAremry pmsymtr.emnsap
tr.mlr.numvpmrvnsdpumgrmrlymtr.ekpnamxskgbopywmBympj pnnpygm qbebup
syuppu!mbyumcpetmx. qmgrmgqpmf.efrkpwmGqsydkmx.kgm rxpmgrmbm eskskmkrry
yrlw”

Kqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmvepbomraamaerxmgqpkpmcpetmfnpbkbygmrvkpecbgsryk,
lqs qmlpepmrgqpelskpmrambmkregmgrme.ymsygrmdepbgmnpydgq,mvtmgqp
pbdpeypkkmramQbeespg'kmlryupesydmh.pkgsrykw

“Lqbgm bymsgmvp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp?--lqbgm bymsgmvp?mSmqbcpmyrgmbymsupb--S
 byyrgmd.pkkmsgmsymgqpmnpbkgwmLqbgm bymsgmfrkksvntmvp?mUrmgetmgrmasyu
sgmr.g,mXskkmLrruqr.kpwmUrmqpnfmxpwmSmypcpemkblmbytmgqsydmkrmqbeuwmSkmsg
osydurx?mSmlryupemlqrmgqpmaespyumlbk--byumlqrm r.numvpmgqpmtr.ydmnbutw
Urmtr.mgqsyomsgmskmbmdrrumryp?m bymsgmvpmlrxby?

mmmmmmByumlrxby,mnrcpntmlrxby,mepsdykmbnrypw

 bymsgmvpmYpfg.yp?

mmmmmmVpqrnumqsxmgqpep,mgqpmxrybe qmramgqpmkpbk!

Rembmgesupyg?mrembmxpexbsu?mrembmkqbeo?mRq,myr!mkqbeomskmryntmryp
ktnnbvnpwmSgmx.kgmvpmcpetm npcpe,mremqpmlr.numyrgmqbcpmver.dqgmsgwmRq!
XskkmLrruqr.kp,murmtr.mgqsyomlpmkqbnnmpcpemasyumsgmr.g?”

“Xpexbsukmbyumkqbeok!mYrykpykp!mXtmupbemQbeespg,mlqbgmbepmtr.mgqsyosyd
ra?mLqpepmlr.numvpmgqpm.kpmramqskmvesydsydm.kmbm qbebupmxbupmvtmbmaespyu
.frymbmxpexbsumrembmkqbeo?mDscpmxpmgqpmfbfpembyumnskgpyw

AremXskkm------,mepbumXskkmKxsgqw

mmmmXtmasekgmuskfnbtkmgqpmlpbngqmbyumfrxfmramosydk,
mmmmmmNreukmramgqpmpbegq!mgqpsemn.j.etmbyumpbkpw

Gqbgmskm_ r.eg_w

mmmmByrgqpemcsplmramxby,mxtmkp ryumvesydk;
mmmmmmVpqrnumqsxmgqpep,mgqpmxrybe qmramgqpmkpbk!

Gqbgmskm_kqsf_;--fnbsymbkmsgm bymvpw--Yrlmaremgqpm epbxw

mmmmV.gmbq!m.ysgpu,m(_ r.egkqsf_,mtr.moyrl,)mlqbgmepcpekpmlpmqbcp!
mmmmmmXby'kmvrbkgpumfrlpembyumaeppurx,mbnnmbepmanrlyw
mmmmNreumramgqpmpbegqmbyumkpb,mqpmvpyukmbmknbcp,
mmmmmmByumlrxby,mnrcpntmlrxby,mepsdykmbnrypw

Bmcpetmferfpem rxfnsxpyg!--byumgqpymarnnrlkmgqpmbffns bgsry,mlqs q
Smgqsyo,mxtmupbemQbeespg,mtr.m byyrgmasyumx. qmusaas .ngtmsy
 rxfepqpyusydwmEpbumsgmsym rxaregmgrmtr.ekpnawmGqpepm bymvpmyrmur.vgmra
sgkmvpsydmlesggpymaremtr.mbyumgrmtr.w”

Qbeespgm r.numyrgmnrydmepkskgmkrmupnsdqga.nmbmfpek.bksrywmKqpmepbu
gqpm ry n.usydmnsypk,mbyumlbkmbnnman.ggpembyumqbffsypkkwmKqpm r.numyrg
kfpbowmV.gmkqpmlbkmyrgmlbygpumgrmkfpbowmSgmlbkmpyr.dqmaremqpemgrmappnw
Pxxbmkfropmaremqpew

“Gqpepmskmkrmfrsygpu,mbyumkrmfbegs .nbembmxpbysydmsymgqskm rxfnsxpyg,”
mkbsumkqp,m“gqbgmSm byyrgmqbcpmbmur.vgmbkmgrmXewmPngry'kmsygpygsrykwmTr.
bepmqskmrvzp g--byumtr.mlsnnmkrrymep pscpmgqpm rxfnpgpkgmferramramsgwmS
gqr.dqgmsgmx.kgmvpmkrwmSmgqr.dqgmSm r.numyrgmvpmkrmup pscpu;mv.gmyrl,msg
skm npbe;mgqpmkgbgpmramqskmxsyumskmbkm npbembyumup supu,mbkmxtmlskqpkmry
gqpmk.vzp gmqbcpmvppympcpemksy pmSmoyplmtr.wmTpk,mQbeespg,mz.kgmkrmnryd
qbcpmSmvppymlbygsydmgqpmcpetm se .xkgby pmgrmqbffpymgqbgmqbkmqbffpypuw
Sm r.numypcpemgpnnmlqpgqpembymbggb qxpygmvpglppymtr.mbyumXewmPngrymlpep
xrkgmupksebvnpmremxrkgmybg.ebnwmSgkmfervbvsnsgtmbyumsgkmpnsdsvsnsgtmqbcp
epbnntmkrmph.bnnpumpb qmrgqpe!mSmbxmcpetmqbfftwmSm rydebg.nbgpmtr.,mxt
upbemQbeespg,mlsgqmbnnmxtmqpbegwmGqskmskmbymbggb qxpygmlqs qmbmlrxbymxbt
lpnnmappnmfesupmsym epbgsydwmGqskmskmbm ryypjsrymlqs qmraapekmyrgqsyd
v.gmdrruwmSgmlsnnmdscpmtr.mpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmtr.mlbyg-- ryksupebgsry,
syupfpyupy p,mbmferfpemqrxp--sgmlsnnmasjmtr.msymgqpm pygepmrambnnmtr.e
epbnmaespyuk,m nrkpmgrmQbegaspnumbyumgrmxp,mbyum ryasexmr.emsygsxb t
arempcpewmGqsk,mQbeespg,mskmbymbnnsby pmlqs qm bymypcpemebskpmbmvn.kqmsy
psgqpemram.kw”

“UpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp!”--byum“UpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mlbkmbnnmgqbgmQbeespg,
lsgqmxbytmgpyupempxveb pkm r.numbegs .nbgpmbgmasekg;mv.gmlqpymgqptmusu
beescpmbgmkrxpgqsydmxrepmnsopm rycpekbgsry,msgmlbkmk.aas spygntm npbemgr
qpemaespyumgqbgmkqpmkbl,mapng,mbygs sfbgpu,mbyumepxpxvpepumz.kgmbkmkqp
r.dqgwmXewmPngry'kmk.fpesresgtmqbumcpetmbxfnpmb oyrlnpudxpygw

“Lqbgpcpemtr.mkbtmskmbnlbtkmesdqg,”m espumQbeespg,m“byumgqpeparepmS
k.ffrkp,mbyumvpnspcp,mbyumqrfpmsgmx.kgmvpmkr;mv.gmrgqpelskpmSm r.numyrg
qbcpmsxbdsypumsgwmSgmskmkrmx. qmvptryumbytmgqsydmSmupkpecpwmXewmPngry,
lqrmxsdqgmxbeetmbytmvrut!mGqpepm byyrgmvpmglrmrfsysrykmbvr.gm_qsx_wmQp
skmkrmcpetmk.fpesrewmRyntmgqsyomramgqrkpmklppgmcpekpk--'GrmXskkm------w'
Upbemxp,mqrlm npcpe!-- r.numsgmepbnntmvpmxpbygmaremxp?”

“Sm byyrgmxbopmbmh.pkgsry,mremnskgpymgrmbmh.pkgsrymbvr.gmgqbgwmSgmskmb
 pegbsygtwmEp pscpmsgmrymxtmz.udxpygwmSgmskmbmkregmramfernrd.pmgr
gqpmfnbt,mbmxrggrmgrmgqpm qbfgpe;mbyumlsnnmvpmkrrymarnnrlpumvt
xbggpe-ra-ab gmferkpw”

“Sgmskmbmkregmramgqsydmlqs qmyrvrutm r.numqbcpmpjfp gpuwmSmbxmk.ep,
bmxrygqmbdr,mSmqbumyrmxrepmsupbmxtkpna!--Gqpmkgebydpkgmgqsydkmurmgbop
fnb p!”

“LqpymXskkmKxsgqkmbyumXewmPngrykmdpgmb h.bsygpu--gqptmurmsyuppu--byu
epbnntmsgmskmkgebydp;msgmskmr.gmramgqpm rxxrym r.ekpmgqbgmlqbgmskmkr
pcsupygnt,mkrmfbnfbvntmupksebvnp--lqbgm r.egkmgqpmfep-beebydpxpygmra
rgqpemfprfnp,mkqr.numkrmsxxpusbgpntmkqbfpmsgkpnamsygrmgqpmferfpemarexw
Tr.mbyumXewmPngrymbepmvtmksg.bgsrym bnnpumgrdpgqpe;mtr.mvpnrydmgrmryp
byrgqpemvtmpcpetm se .xkgby pmramtr.emepkfp gscpmqrxpkwmTr.emxbeetsyd
lsnnmvpmph.bnmgrmgqpmxbg qmbgmEbyubnnkwmGqpepmurpkmkppxmgrmvpmb
krxpgqsydmsymgqpmbsemramQbegaspnumlqs qmdscpkmnrcpmpjb gntmgqpmesdqg
usep gsry,mbyumkpyukmsgmsygrmgqpmcpetm qbyypnmlqpepmsgmr.dqgmgrmanrlw

mmmmmmGqpm r.ekpmramge.pmnrcpmypcpemusume.ymkxrrgq--

BmQbegaspnumpusgsrymramKqbopkfpbepmlr.numqbcpmbmnrydmyrgpmrymgqbg
fbkkbdpw”

“GqbgmXewmPngrymkqr.numepbnntmvpmsymnrcpmlsgqmxp,--xp,mrambnnmfprfnp,
lqrmusumyrgmoyrlmqsx,mgrmkfpbomgrmqsx,mbgmXs qbpnxbk!mByumqp,mgqpmcpet
qbyukrxpkgmxbymgqbgmpcpemlbk,mbyumbmxbymgqbgmpcpetmvrutmnrrokm.fmgr,
h.sgpmnsopmXewmOysdqgnpt!mQskm rxfbytmkrmkr.dqgmbagpe,mgqbgmpcpetmvrut
kbtkmqpmyppumyrgmpbgmbmksydnpmxpbnmvtmqsxkpnamsamqpmurpkmyrgm q.kpmsg;
gqbgmqpmqbkmxrepmsycsgbgsrykmgqbymgqpepmbepmubtkmsymgqpmlppowmByumkr
pj pnnpygmsymgqpm q.e q!mXskkmYbkqmqbkmf.gmurlymbnnmgqpmgpjgkmqpmqbk
pcpemfepb qpumaerxmksy pmqpm bxpmgrmQsdqv.etwmUpbemxp!mLqpymSmnrromvb o
grmgqpmasekgmgsxpmSmkblmqsx!mQrlmnsggnpmusumSmgqsyo!--GqpmglrmBvvrgkmbyu
Smebymsygrmgqpmaerygmerrxmbyumfppfpumgqer.dqmgqpmvnsyumlqpymlpmqpbeumqp
lbkmdrsydmvt,mbyumXskkmYbkqm bxpmbyumk rnupum.kmblbt,mbyumkgbsumgrmnrro
gqer.dqmqpekpna;mqrlpcpe,mkqpm bnnpumxpmvb omfepkpygnt,mbyumnpgmxp
nrromgrr,mlqs qmlbkmcpetmdrru-ybg.epuwmByumqrlmvpb.gsa.nmlpmgqr.dqgmqp
nrropu!mQpmlbkmbex-sy-bexmlsgqmXewm rnpw”

“Gqskmskmbymbnnsby pmlqs q,mlqrpcpe--lqbgpcpemtr.emaespyukmxbtmvp,mx.kg
vpmbdeppbvnpmgrmgqpx,mfercsupumbgmnpbkgmgqptmqbcpm rxxrymkpykp;mbyumlp
bepmyrgmgrmvpmbuuepkksydmr.em ryu. gmgrmarrnkwmSamgqptmbepmbyjsr.kmgr
kppmtr.m_qbffsnt_mxbeespu,mqpepmskmbmxbymlqrkpmbxsbvnpm qbeb gpemdscpk
pcpetmbkk.eby pmramsg;--samgqptmlskqmgrmqbcpmtr.mkpggnpumsymgqpmkbxp
 r.ygetmbyum se npmlqs qmgqptmqbcpm qrkpymgrmfnb pmtr.msy,mqpepmsgmlsnn
vpmb  rxfnskqpu;mbyumsamgqpsemryntmrvzp gmskmgqbgmtr.mkqr.nu,msymgqp
 rxxrymfqebkp,mvpm_lpnn_mxbeespu,mqpepmskmgqpm rxaregbvnpmareg.yp,mgqp
epkfp gbvnpmpkgbvnskqxpyg,mgqpmeskpmsymgqpmlrenumlqs qmx.kgmkbgskat
gqpxw”

“Tpk,mcpetmge.pwmQrlmys pntmtr.mgbno;mSmnrcpmgrmqpbemtr.wmTr.m.yupekgbyu
pcpetmgqsydwmTr.mbyumXewmPngrymbepmrypmbkm npcpembkmgqpmrgqpewmGqsk
 qbebup!--SamSmqbumkg.uspumbmglpncpxrygq,mSm r.numypcpemqbcpmxbupmbyt
gqsydmnsopmsgw”

“Smgqr.dqgmqpmxpbygmgrmgetmqskmkosnn,mvtmqskmxbyypemramup nsysydmsg
tpkgpeubtw”

“Smurmgqsyomsgmsk,mlsgqr.gmpj pfgsry,mgqpmvpkgm qbebupmSmpcpemepbuw”

“Smypcpemepbumrypmxrepmgrmgqpmf.efrkp,m pegbsyntw”

“Sgmskmbkmnrydmbdbsymbkmbnxrkgmbnnmlpmqbcpmqbumvparepw”

“Smurmyrgm ryksupemsgkmnpydgqmbkmfbegs .nbentmsymsgkmabcr.ewmK. qmgqsydk
symdpypebnm byyrgmvpmgrrmkqregw”

QbeespgmlbkmgrrmsygpygmrymgqpmnsypkmgrmqpbewmGqpmxrkgmkbgskab gret
 rxfbeskrykmlpepmesksydmsymqpemxsyuw

“Sgmskmrypmgqsyd,”mkbsumkqp,mfepkpygnt--qpem qppokmsymbmdnrl--“grmqbcp
cpetmdrrumkpykpmsymbm rxxrymlbt,mnsopmpcpetmvrutmpnkp,mbyumsamgqpepmsk
bytmgqsydmgrmkbt,mgrmksgmurlymbyumlesgpmbmnpggpe,mbyumkbtmz.kgmlqbgmtr.
x.kg,msymbmkqregmlbt;mbyumbyrgqpe,mgrmlesgpmcpekpkmbyum qbebupkmnsop
gqskw”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmqbcpmupksepumbmxrepmkfsesgpumepzp gsrymramXewmXbegsy'k
ferkpw

“K. qmklppgmnsypk!”m rygsy.pumQbeespg--“gqpkpmglrmnbkg!--V.gmqrlmkqbnnmS
pcpemvpmbvnpmgrmepg.eymgqpmfbfpe,mremkbtmSmqbcpmar.yumsgmr.g?--Rq!mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mlqbgm bymlpmurmbvr.gmgqbg?”

“NpbcpmsgmgrmxpwmTr.murmyrgqsydwmQpmlsnnmvpmqpepmgqskmpcpysyd,mSmubep
kbt,mbyumgqpymSmlsnnmdscpmsgmqsxmvb o,mbyumkrxpmyrykpykpmremrgqpemlsnn
fbkkmvpglppym.k,mbyumtr.mkqbnnmyrgmvpm rxxsggpuw--Tr.emkragmptpkmkqbnn
 q.kpmgqpsemrlymgsxpmaremvpbxsydwmGe.kgmgrmxpw”

“Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqbgmbmfsgtmgqbgmSmx.kgmyrgmlesgpmgqskmvpb.gsa.n
 qbebupmsygrmxtmvrro!mSmbxmk.epmSmqbcpmyrgmdrgmrypmqbnamkrmdrruw”

“Npbcpmr.gmgqpmglrmnbkgmnsypk,mbyumgqpepmskmyrmepbkrymlqtmtr.mkqr.numyrg
lesgpmsgmsygrmtr.emvrrow”

“Rq!mv.gmgqrkpmglrmnsypkmbep”--

--“GqpmvpkgmrambnnwmDebygpu;--aremfescbgpmpyzrtxpyg;mbyumaremfescbgp
pyzrtxpygmoppfmgqpxwmGqptmbepmyrgmbgmbnnmgqpmnpkkmlesggpymtr.moyrl,
vp b.kpmtr.muscsupmgqpxwmGqpm r.fnpgmurpkmyrgm pbkpmgrmvp,myremurpkmsgk
xpbysydm qbydpwmV.gmgbopmsgmblbt,mbyumbnnm_bfferfesbgsry_m pbkpk,mbyumb
cpetmfepggtmdbnnbygm qbebupmepxbsyk,masgmarembytm rnnp gsrywmUpfpyum.fry
sg,mqpmlr.numyrgmnsopmgrmqbcpmqskm qbebupmknsdqgpu,mx. qmvpggpemgqbymqsk
fbkksrywmBmfrpgmsymnrcpmx.kgmvpmpy r.ebdpumsymvrgqm bfb sgspk,mre
ypsgqpewmDscpmxpmgqpmvrro,mSmlsnnmlesgpmsgmurly,mbyumgqpymgqpepm bymvp
yrmfrkksvnpmepanp gsrymrymtr.w”

Qbeespgmk.vxsggpu,mgqr.dqmqpemxsyum r.numqbeuntmkpfbebgpmgqpmfbegk,
krmbkmgrmappnmh.sgpmk.epmgqbgmqpemaespyumlpepmyrgmlesgsydmurlymb
up nbebgsrymramnrcpwmSgmkppxpumgrrmfep sr.kmbymraapesydmarembytmupdepp
ramf.vns sgtw

“Smkqbnnmypcpemnpgmgqbgmvrromdrmr.gmramxtmrlymqbyuk,”mkbsumkqpw

“Cpetmlpnn,”mepfnspumPxxb;m“bmxrkgmybg.ebnmappnsyd;mbyumgqpmnrydpemsg
nbkgk,mgqpmvpggpemSmkqbnnmvpmfnpbkpuwmV.gmqpepmskmxtmabgqpem rxsyd:mtr.
lsnnmyrgmrvzp gmgrmxtmepbusydmgqpm qbebupmgrmqsxwmSgmlsnnmvpmdscsydmqsx
krmx. qmfnpbk.ep!mQpmnrcpkmbytmgqsydmramgqpmkreg,mbyumpkfp sbnntmbyt
gqsydmgqbgmfbtkmlrxbymbm rxfnsxpygwmQpmqbkmgqpmgpyupepkgmkfsesgmra
dbnnbygetmgrlbeukm.kmbnn!--Tr.mx.kgmnpgmxpmepbumsgmgrmqsxw”

Qbeespgmnrropumdebcpw

“XtmupbemQbeespg,mtr.mx.kgmyrgmepasypmgrrmx. qm.frymgqskm qbebupw--Tr.
lsnnmvpgebtmtr.emappnsydkmsxferfpent,msamtr.mbepmgrrm ryk sr.kmbyumgrr
h.s o,mbyumbffpbemgrmbaasjmxrepmxpbysyd,mrempcpymh.sgpmbnnmgqpmxpbysyd
lqs qmxbtmvpmbaasjpumgrmsgwmUrmyrgmvpmrcpefrlpepumvtmk. qmbmnsggnp
gesv.gpmrambuxsebgsrywmSamqpmqbumvppymbyjsr.kmaremkp ep t,mqpmlr.numyrg
qbcpmnpagmgqpmfbfpemlqsnpmSmlbkmvt;mv.gmqpmebgqpemf.kqpumsgmgrlbeukmxp
gqbymgrlbeukmtr.wmUrmyrgmnpgm.kmvpmgrrmkrnpxymrymgqpmv.ksypkkwmQpmqbk
py r.ebdpxpygmpyr.dqmgrmfer ppu,mlsgqr.gmr.emksdqsydmr.gmr.emkr.nkmrcpe
gqskm qbebupw”

“Rq!myr--SmqrfpmSmkqbnnmyrgmvpmesus .nr.kmbvr.gmsgwmUrmbkmtr.mfnpbkpw”

XewmLrruqr.kpm bxpmsy,mbyumcpetmkrrymnpumgrmgqpmk.vzp gmbdbsy,mvtmgqp
ep .eepy pmramqskmcpetmaeph.pygmsyh.setmram“Lpnn,mxtmupbek,mqrlmurpk
tr.emvrromdrmry?--Qbcpmtr.mdrgmbytmgqsydmaepkq?”

“Tpk,mfbfb;mlpmqbcpmkrxpgqsydmgrmepbumtr.,mkrxpgqsydmh.sgpmaepkqwmB
fsp pmramfbfpemlbkmar.yumrymgqpmgbvnpmgqskmxreysyd--(uerfg,mlpmk.ffrkp,
vtmbmabset)-- rygbsysydmbmcpetmfepggtm qbebup,mbyumlpmqbcpmz.kgm rfspu
sgmsyw”

Kqpmepbumsgmgrmqsx,mz.kgmbkmqpmnsopumgrmqbcpmbytmgqsydmepbu,mknrlntmbyu
uskgsy gnt,mbyumglrmremgqeppmgsxpkmrcpe,mlsgqmpjfnbybgsrykmrampcpet
fbegmbkmkqpmfer ppupu--byumqpmlbkmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpu,mbyu,mbkmkqpmqbu
arepkppy,mpkfp sbnntmkge. omlsgqmgqpm rxfnsxpygbetm ry n.ksryw

“Btp,mgqbg'kmcpetmz.kg,msyuppu,mgqbg'kmcpetmferfpentmkbsuwmCpetmge.pw
'Lrxby,mnrcpntmlrxbyw'mSgmskmk. qmbmfepggtm qbebup,mxtmupbe,mgqbgmS
 bympbksntmd.pkkmlqbgmabsetmver.dqgmsgw--Yrvrutm r.numqbcpmlesggpymkr
fepggsnt,mv.gmtr.,mPxxbw”

Pxxbmryntmyruupu,mbyumkxsnpuw--Bagpembmnsggnpmgqsyosyd,mbyumbmcpet
gpyupemksdq,mqpmbuupu,

“Bq!msgmskmyrmusaas .ngtmgrmkppmlqrmtr.mgbopmbagpe!mTr.emupbemxrgqpe
lbkmkrm npcpembgmbnnmgqrkpmgqsydk!mSamSmqbumv.gmqpemxpxret!mV.gmSm by
epxpxvpemyrgqsyd;--yrgmpcpymgqbgmfbegs .nbemesuunpmlqs qmtr.mqbcp
qpbeumxpmxpygsry;mSm bymryntmep rnnp gmgqpmasekgmkgbyib;mbyumgqpepmbep
kpcpebnw

mmmmOsggt,mbmabsemv.gmaeripymxbsu,
mmmmmmOsyunpumbmanbxpmSmtpgmupfnrep,
mmmmGqpmqrru-lsyo'umvrtmSm bnnpumgrmbsu,
mmmmGqr.dqmramqskmypbembfferb qmbaebsu,
mmmmmmKrmabgbnmgrmxtmk.sgmvparepw

ByumgqbgmskmbnnmgqbgmSm bymep rnnp gmramsg--v.gmsgmskmcpetm npcpembnn
gqpmlbtmgqer.dqwmV.gmSmgqsyo,mxtmupbe,mtr.mkbsumtr.mqbumdrgmsgw”

“Tpk,mfbfb,msgmskmlesggpymr.gmsymr.emkp ryumfbdpwmLpm rfspumsgmaerxmgqp
PnpdbygmPjgeb gkwmSgmlbkmDbees o'k,mtr.moyrlw”

“Btp,mcpetmge.pw--SmlskqmSm r.numep rnnp gmxrepmramsgw

mmmmOsggt,mbmabsemv.gmaeripymxbsuw

GqpmybxpmxbopkmxpmgqsyomramfrremSkbvpnnb;maremkqpmlbkmcpetmypbemvpsyd
 qeskgpypum bgqpesypmbagpemqpemdebyuxbxbwmSmqrfpmlpmkqbnnmqbcpmqpemqpep
ypjgmlppowmQbcpmtr.mgqr.dqg,mxtmupbe,mlqpepmtr.mkqbnnmf.gmqpe--byumlqbg
errxmgqpepmlsnnmvpmaremgqpm qsnuepy?”

“Rq!mtpk--kqpmlsnnmqbcpmqpemrlymerrx,mram r.ekp;mgqpmerrxmkqpmbnlbtk
qbk;--byumgqpepmskmgqpmy.ekpetmaremgqpm qsnuepy,--z.kgmbkm.k.bn,mtr.
oyrlwmLqtmkqr.numgqpepmvpmbytm qbydp?”

“Smurmyrgmoyrl,mxtmupbe--v.gmsgmskmkrmnrydmksy pmkqpmlbkmqpep!--yrg
ksy pmnbkgmPbkgpe,mbyumgqpymryntmarembmaplmubtkw--XewmZrqymOysdqgnpt'k
vpsydmbmnbltpemskmcpetmsy rycpyspygw--FrremSkbvpnnb!--kqpmskmkbuntmgbopy
blbtmaerxm.kmbnn!--byumqrlmkreetmkqpmlsnnmvpmlqpymkqpm rxpk,myrgmgrmkpp
XskkmGbtnremqpep!”

“Kqpmlsnnmyrgmvpmk.efesipu,mfbfb,mbgmnpbkgw”

“Smurmyrgmoyrl,mxtmupbewmSmbxmk.epmSmlbkmcpetmx. qmk.efesipumlqpymS
asekgmqpbeumkqpmlbkmdrsydmgrmvpmxbeespuw”

“Lpmx.kgmbkomXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymgrmusypmlsgqm.k,mlqsnpmSkbvpnnbmsk
qpepw”

“Tpk,mxtmupbe,msamgqpepmskmgsxpw--V.g--(symbmcpetmupfepkkpumgryp)--kqp
skm rxsydmaremryntmrypmlppowmGqpepmlsnnmyrgmvpmgsxpmarembytmgqsydw”

“Sgmskm.yareg.ybgpmgqbgmgqptm byyrgmkgbtmnrydpe--v.gmsgmkppxkmbm bkpmra
yp pkksgtwmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmx.kgmvpmsymgrlymbdbsymrymgqpm28gq,mbyumlp
r.dqgmgrmvpmgqbyoa.n,mfbfb,mgqbgmlpmbepmgrmqbcpmgqpmlqrnpmramgqpmgsxp
gqptm bymdscpmgrmgqpm r.yget,mgqbgmglrmremgqeppmubtkmbepmyrgmgrmvpmgbopy
r.gmaremgqpmBvvptwmXewmOysdqgnptmferxskpkmgrmdscpm.fmqskm nbsxmgqsk
 qeskgxbk--gqr.dqmtr.moyrlmsgmskmnrydpemksy pmgqptmlpepmlsgqmqsx,mgqby
lsgqm.kw”

“Sgmlr.numvpmcpetmqbeu,msyuppu,mxtmupbe,msamfrremSkbvpnnbmlpepmgrmvp
bytlqpepmv.gmbgmQbegaspnuw”

XewmLrruqr.kpm r.numypcpembnnrlmaremXewmOysdqgnpt'km nbsxkmrymqsk
vergqpe,mrembytmvrut'km nbsxkmrymSkbvpnnb,mpj pfgmqskmrlywmQpmkbgmx.ksyd
bmnsggnpmlqsnp,mbyumgqpymkbsu,

“V.gmSmurmyrgmkppmlqtmfrremSkbvpnnbmkqr.numvpmrvnsdpumgrmdrmvb omkr
krry,mgqr.dqmqpmurpkwmSmgqsyo,mPxxb,mSmkqbnnmgetmbyumfpek.bupmqpemgr
kgbtmnrydpemlsgqm.kwmKqpmbyumgqpm qsnuepymxsdqgmkgbtmcpetmlpnnw”

“Bq!mfbfb--gqbgmskmlqbgmtr.mypcpemqbcpmvppymbvnpmgrmb  rxfnskq,mbyumS
urmyrgmgqsyomtr.mpcpemlsnnwmSkbvpnnbm byyrgmvpbemgrmkgbtmvpqsyumqpe
q.kvbyuw”

Gqskmlbkmgrrmge.pmarem rygebus gsrywm.ylpn rxpmbkmsgmlbk,mXewmLrruqr.kp
 r.numryntmdscpmbmk.vxskkscpmksdq;mbyumbkmPxxbmkblmqskmkfsesgkmbaap gpu
vtmgqpmsupbmramqskmub.dqgpe'kmbggb qxpygmgrmqpemq.kvbyu,mkqpmsxxpusbgpnt
npumgrmk. qmbmveby qmramgqpmk.vzp gmbkmx.kgmebskpmgqpxw

“Qbeespgmx.kgmdscpm.kmbkmx. qmramqpem rxfbytmbkmkqpm bymlqsnpmxtmvergqpe
byumkskgpembepmqpepwmSmbxmk.epmkqpmlsnnmvpmfnpbkpumlsgqmgqpm qsnuepyw
Lpmbepmcpetmfer.umramgqpm qsnuepy,mbepmyrgmlp,mfbfb?mSmlryupemlqs qmkqp
lsnnmgqsyomgqpmqbyukrxpkg,mQpyetmremZrqy?”

“Btp,mSmlryupemlqs qmkqpmlsnnwmFrremnsggnpmupbek,mqrlmdnbumgqptmlsnnmvp
grm rxpwmGqptmbepmcpetmaryumramvpsydmbgmQbegaspnu,mQbeespgw”

“Smubepmkbtmgqptmbep,mksewmSmbxmk.epmSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqrmskmyrgw”

“Qpyetmskmbmasypmvrt,mv.gmZrqymskmcpetmnsopmqskmxbxbwmQpyetmskmgqp
pnupkg,mqpmlbkmybxpumbagpemxp,myrgmbagpemqskmabgqpewmZrqy,mgqpmkp ryu,
skmybxpumbagpemqskmabgqpewmKrxpmfprfnpmbepmk.efesipu,mSmvpnspcp,mgqbg
gqpmpnupkgmlbkmyrg,mv.gmSkbvpnnbmlr.numqbcpmqsxm bnnpumQpyet,mlqs qmS
gqr.dqgmcpetmfepggtmramqpewmByumqpmskmbmcpetm npcpemvrt,msyuppuwmGqpt
bepmbnnmepxbeobvntm npcpe;mbyumgqptmqbcpmkrmxbytmfepggtmlbtkwmGqptmlsnn
 rxpmbyumkgbyumvtmxtm qbse,mbyumkbt,m'Debyufbfb,m bymtr.mdscpmxpmbmvsg
ramkgesyd?'mbyumry pmQpyetmbkopumxpmarembmoysap,mv.gmSmgrnumqsxmoyscpk
lpepmryntmxbupmaremdebyufbfbkwmSmgqsyomgqpsemabgqpemskmgrrmer.dqmlsgq
gqpxmcpetmragpyw”

“Qpmbffpbekmer.dqmgrmtr.,”mkbsumPxxb,m“vp b.kpmtr.mbepmkrmcpetmdpygnp
tr.ekpna;mv.gmsamtr.m r.num rxfbepmqsxmlsgqmrgqpemfbfbk,mtr.mlr.numyrg
gqsyomqsxmer.dqwmQpmlskqpkmqskmvrtkmgrmvpmb gscpmbyumqbeut;mbyumsa
gqptmxskvpqbcp,m bymdscpmgqpxmbmkqbefmlreumyrlmbyumgqpy;mv.gmqpmskmby
baap gsrybgpmabgqpe-- pegbsyntmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmskmbymbaap gsrybgp
abgqpewmGqpm qsnuepymbepmbnnmaryumramqsxw”

“Byumgqpymgqpsem.y npm rxpkmsy,mbyumgrkkpkmgqpxm.fmgrmgqpm psnsydmsymb
cpetmaesdqga.nmlbt!”

“V.gmgqptmnsopmsg,mfbfb;mgqpepmskmyrgqsydmgqptmnsopmkrmx. qwmSgmskmk. q
pyzrtxpygmgrmgqpx,mgqbgmsamgqpsem.y npmusumyrgmnbtmurlymgqpme.npmra
gqpsemgbosydmg.eyk,mlqs qpcpemvpdbymlr.numypcpemdscpmlbtmgrmgqpmrgqpew”

“Lpnn,mSm byyrgm.yupekgbyumsgw”

“Gqbgmskmgqpm bkpmlsgqm.kmbnn,mfbfbwmRypmqbnamramgqpmlrenum byyrg
.yupekgbyumgqpmfnpbk.epkmramgqpmrgqpew”

Nbgpemsymgqpmxreysyd,mbyumz.kgmbkmgqpmdsenkmlpepmdrsydmgrmkpfbebgp
symfepfbebgsrymaremgqpmepd.nbemar.emr' nr omusyype,mgqpmqpermramgqsk
sysxsgbvnpm qbebupmlbnopumsymbdbsywmQbeespgmg.eypumblbt;mv.gmPxxbm r.nu
ep pscpmqsxmlsgqmgqpm.k.bnmkxsnp,mbyumqpemh.s omptpmkrrymusk peypumsy
qskmgqpm ryk sr.kypkkmramqbcsydmxbupmbmf.kq--ramqbcsydmgqerlymbmusp;
byumkqpmsxbdsypumqpmlbkm rxpmgrmkppmqrlmsgmxsdqgmg.eym.fwmQskmrkgpyksvnp
epbkry,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmgrmbkomlqpgqpemXewmLrruqr.kp'kmfbegtm r.numvpmxbup
.fmsymgqpmpcpysydmlsgqr.gmqsx,mremlqpgqpemqpmkqr.numvpmsymgqpmkxbnnpkg
updeppmyp pkkbetmbgmQbegaspnuwmSamqpmlpep,mpcpetmgqsydmpnkpmx.kgmdscp
lbt;mv.gmrgqpelskpmqskmaespyum rnpmqbumvppymkbtsydmkrmx. qmbvr.gmqsk
usysydmlsgqmqsx--qbumxbupmk. qmbmfrsygmramsg,mgqbgmqpmqbumferxskpumqsx
 ryusgsrybnntmgrm rxpw

Pxxbmgqbyopumqsx,mv.gm r.numyrgmbnnrlmramqskmuskbffrsygsydmqskmaespyu
rymgqpsemb  r.yg;mqpemabgqpemlbkmk.epmramqskme.vvpewmQpmep-.edpu--kqp
ep-up nsypu;mbyumqpmkppxpumgqpymbvr.gmgrmxbopmqskmvrl,mlqpymgbosydmgqp
fbfpemaerxmgqpmgbvnp,mkqpmepg.eypumsg--

“Rq!mqpepmskmgqpm qbebupmtr.mlpepmkrmrvnsdsydmbkmgrmnpbcpmlsgqm.k;mgqbyo
tr.maremgqpmksdqgmramsgwmLpmbuxsepumsgmkrmx. q,mgqbgmSmqbcpmcpyg.epu
grmlesgpmsgmsygrmXskkmKxsgq'km rnnp gsrywmTr.emaespyumlsnnmyrgmgbopmsg
bxskkmSmqrfpwmRam r.ekpmSmqbcpmyrgmgebyk esvpumvptryumgqpmasekgmpsdqg
nsypkw”

XewmPngrym pegbsyntmusumyrgmcpetmlpnnmoyrlmlqbgmgrmkbtwmQpmnrropumebgqpe
ur.vgsydnt--ebgqpem rya.kpu;mkbsumkrxpgqsydmbvr.gm“qryr.e,”--dnby pumbg
PxxbmbyumbgmQbeespg,mbyumgqpymkppsydmgqpmvrromrfpymrymgqpmgbvnp,mgrro
sgm.f,mbyumpjbxsypumsgmcpetmbggpygscpntwmLsgqmgqpmcsplmramfbkksydmraamby
blolbeumxrxpyg,mPxxbmkxsnsydntmkbsu,

“Tr.mx.kgmxbopmxtmbfrnrdspkmgrmtr.emaespyu;mv.gmkrmdrrumbm qbebup
x.kgmyrgmvpm ryasypumgrmrypmremglrwmQpmxbtmvpmk.epmrampcpetmlrxby'k
bffervbgsrymlqsnpmqpmlesgpkmlsgqmk. qmdbnnbygetw”

“Smqbcpmyrmqpksgbgsrymsymkbtsyd,”mepfnspumXewmPngry,mgqr.dqmqpksgbgsyd
bmdrrumupbnmlqsnpmqpmkfrop;m“Smqbcpmyrmqpksgbgsrymsymkbtsyd--bgmnpbkg
samxtmaespyumappnkmbgmbnnmbkm_S_mur--Smqbcpmyrgmgqpmkxbnnpkgmur.vgmgqbg,
 r.numqpmkppmqskmnsggnpmpaa.ksrymqryr.epumbkm_S_mkppmsg,m(nrrosydmbgmgqp
vrrombdbsy,mbyumepfnb sydmsgmrymgqpmgbvnp),mqpmlr.num ryksupemsgmbkmgqp
fer.upkgmxrxpygmramqskmnsapw”

Bagpemgqskmkfpp qmqpmlbkmdrypmbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpwmPxxbm r.numyrgmgqsyo
sgmgrrmkrry;maremlsgqmbnnmqskmdrrumbyumbdeppbvnpmh.bnsgspk,mgqpepmlbk
bmkregmramfbebupmsymqskmkfpp qpkmlqs qmlbkmcpetmbfgmgrmsy nsypmqpemgr
nb.dqwmKqpmebymblbtmgrmsyu.ndpmgqpmsy nsybgsry,mnpbcsydmgqpmgpyupembyu
gqpmk.vnsxpmramfnpbk.epmgrmQbeespg'kmkqbepw



 QBFGPEmJ


Gqr.dqmyrlmgqpmxsuunpmramUp pxvpe,mgqpepmqbumtpgmvppymyrmlpbgqpemgr
fepcpygmgqpmtr.ydmnbuspkmaerxmgrnpebvntmepd.nbempjpe skp;mbyumrymgqp
xreerl,mPxxbmqbumbm qbesgbvnpmcsksgmgrmfbtmgrmbmfrremks omabxsnt,mlqr
nscpumbmnsggnpmlbtmr.gmramQsdqv.etw

Gqpsemerbumgrmgqskmupgb qpum rggbdpmlbkmurlymCs bebdpmNbyp,mbmnbyp
npbusydmbgmesdqgmbydnpkmaerxmgqpmverbu,mgqr.dqmseepd.nbe,mxbsymkgeppgmra
gqpmfnb p;mbyu,mbkmxbtmvpmsyapeepu,m rygbsysydmgqpmvnpkkpumbvrupmramXew
PngrywmBmaplmsyapesremulpnnsydkmlpepmasekgmgrmvpmfbkkpu,mbyumgqpy,mbvr.g
bmh.begpemrambmxsnpmurlymgqpmnbypmerkpmgqpmCs bebdp,mbymrnumbyumyrg
cpetmdrrumqr.kp,mbnxrkgmbkm nrkpmgrmgqpmerbumbkmsgm r.numvpwmSgmqbu
yrmbucbygbdpmramksg.bgsry;mv.gmqbumvppymcpetmx. qmkxbegpypum.fmvtmgqp
fepkpygmferfespgre;mbyu,mk. qmbkmsgmlbk,mgqpepm r.numvpmyrmfrkksvsnsgt
ramgqpmglrmaespyukmfbkksydmsgmlsgqr.gmbmknb opypumfb pmbyumrvkpecsyd
ptpkw--Pxxb'kmepxbeomlbk--

“GqpepmsgmskwmGqpepmdrmtr.mbyumtr.emesuunp-vrromrypmramgqpkp
ubtkw”--Qbeespg'kmlbk--

“Rq,mlqbgmbmklppgmqr.kp!--Qrlmcpetmvpb.gsa.n!--Gqpepmbepmgqpmtpnnrl
 .egbsykmgqbgmXskkmYbkqmbuxsepkmkrmx. qw”

“Smurmyrgmragpymlbnomgqskmlbtm_yrl_,”mkbsumPxxb,mbkmgqptmfer ppupu,m“v.g
_gqpy_mgqpepmlsnnmvpmbymsyu. pxpyg,mbyumSmkqbnnmdebu.bnntmdpgmsygsxbgpnt
b h.bsygpumlsgqmbnnmgqpmqpudpk,mdbgpk,mfrrnkmbyumfrnnbeukmramgqskmfbeg
ramQsdqv.etw”

Qbeespg,mkqpmar.yu,mqbumypcpemsymqpemnsapmvppymsyksupmgqpmCs bebdp,
byumqpem .esrksgtmgrmkppmsgmlbkmkrmpjgepxp,mgqbg,m ryksupesydmpjgpesrek
byumfervbvsnsgspk,mPxxbm r.numryntm nbkkmsg,mbkmbmferramramnrcp,mlsgq
XewmPngry'kmkppsydmepbutmlsgmsymqpew

“Smlskqmlpm r.num rygescpmsg,”mkbsumkqp;m“v.gmSm byyrgmgqsyomrambyt
grnpebvnpmfepgpy pmaremdrsydmsy;--yrmkpecbygmgqbgmSmlbygmgrmsyh.sep
bvr.gmramqskmqr.kpoppfpe--yrmxpkkbdpmaerxmxtmabgqpew”

Kqpmfryupepu,mv.gm r.numgqsyomramyrgqsydwmBagpembmx.g.bnmksnpy pmramkrxp
xsy.gpk,mQbeespgmgq.kmvpdbymbdbsy--

“Smurmkrmlryupe,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgqbgmtr.mkqr.numyrgmvpmxbeespu,mre
drsydmgrmvpmxbeespu!mkrm qbexsydmbkmtr.mbep!”--

Pxxbmnb.dqpu,mbyumepfnspu,

“Xtmvpsydm qbexsyd,mQbeespg,mskmyrgmh.sgpmpyr.dqmgrmsyu. pmxpmgrmxbeet;
Smx.kgmasyumrgqpemfprfnpm qbexsyd--rypmrgqpemfpekrymbgmnpbkgwmByumS
bxmyrgmrynt,myrgmdrsydmgrmvpmxbeespu,mbgmfepkpyg,mv.gmqbcpmcpetmnsggnp
sygpygsrymrampcpemxbeetsydmbgmbnnw”

“Bq!--krmtr.mkbt;mv.gmSm byyrgmvpnspcpmsgw”

“Smx.kgmkppmkrxpvrutmcpetmk.fpesremgrmbytmrypmSmqbcpmkppymtpg,mgrmvp
gpxfgpu;mXewmPngry,mtr.moyrl,m(ep rnnp gsydmqpekpna,)mskmr.gmramgqp
h.pkgsry:mbyumSmurm_yrg_mlskqmgrmkppmbytmk. qmfpekrywmSmlr.numebgqpemyrg
vpmgpxfgpuwmSm byyrgmepbnntm qbydpmaremgqpmvpggpewmSamSmlpepmgrmxbeet,mS
x.kgmpjfp gmgrmepfpygmsgw”

“Upbemxp!--sgmskmkrmruumgrmqpbembmlrxbymgbnomkr!”--

“Smqbcpmyrypmramgqpm.k.bnmsyu. pxpygkmramlrxpymgrmxbeetwmLpepmSmgrmabnn
symnrcp,msyuppu,msgmlr.numvpmbmusaapepygmgqsyd!mv.gmSmypcpemqbcpmvppymsy
nrcp;msgmskmyrgmxtmlbt,mremxtmybg.ep;mbyumSmurmyrgmgqsyomSmpcpemkqbnnw
Byu,mlsgqr.gmnrcp,mSmbxmk.epmSmkqr.numvpmbmarrnmgrm qbydpmk. qmb
ksg.bgsrymbkmxsypwmAreg.ypmSmurmyrgmlbyg;mpxfnrtxpygmSmurmyrgmlbyg;
 rykph.py pmSmurmyrgmlbyg:mSmvpnspcpmaplmxbeespumlrxpymbepmqbnambkmx. q
xskgepkkmramgqpsemq.kvbyu'kmqr.kpmbkmSmbxmramQbegaspnu;mbyumypcpe,mypcpe
 r.numSmpjfp gmgrmvpmkrmge.ntmvpnrcpumbyumsxfregbyg;mkrmbnlbtkmasekgmbyu
bnlbtkmesdqgmsymbytmxby'kmptpkmbkmSmbxmsymxtmabgqpe'kw”

“V.gmgqpy,mgrmvpmbymrnumxbsumbgmnbkg,mnsopmXskkmVbgpk!”

“Gqbgmskmbkmarexsubvnpmbymsxbdpmbkmtr.m r.numfepkpyg,mQbeespg;mbyumsa
Smgqr.dqgmSmkqr.numpcpemvpmnsopmXskkmVbgpk!mkrmksnnt--krmkbgskaspu--kr
kxsnsyd--krmferksyd--krm.yuskgsyd.skqsydmbyum.yabkgsusr.k--byumkrmbfg
grmgpnnmpcpetmgqsydmepnbgscpmgrmpcpetmvrutmbvr.gmxp,mSmlr.numxbeet
gr-xreerlwmV.gmvpglppym_.k_,mSmbxm rycsy pumgqpepmypcpem bymvpmbyt
nsopypkk,mpj pfgmsymvpsydm.yxbeespuw”

“V.gmkgsnn,mtr.mlsnnmvpmbymrnumxbsu!mbyumgqbg'kmkrmuepbua.n!”

“Ypcpemxsyu,mQbeespg,mSmkqbnnmyrgmvpmbmfrremrnumxbsu;mbyumsgmskmfrcpegt
ryntmlqs qmxbopkm pnsvb tm rygpxfgsvnpmgrmbmdpyper.kmf.vns !mBmksydnp
lrxby,mlsgqmbmcpetmybeerlmsy rxp,mx.kgmvpmbmesus .nr.k,muskbdeppbvnpmrnu
xbsu!mgqpmferfpemkfregmramvrtkmbyumdsenk,mv.gmbmksydnpmlrxby,mramdrru
areg.yp,mskmbnlbtkmepkfp gbvnp,mbyumxbtmvpmbkmkpyksvnpmbyumfnpbkbyg
bkmbytmvrutmpnkpwmByumgqpmuskgsy gsrymskmyrgmh.sgpmkrmx. qmbdbsykgmgqp
 byur.embyum rxxrymkpykpmramgqpmlrenumbkmbffpbekmbgmasekg;marembmcpet
ybeerlmsy rxpmqbkmbmgpyupy tmgrm rygeb gmgqpmxsyu,mbyumkr.emgqpmgpxfpew
Gqrkpmlqrm bymvbepntmnscp,mbyumlqrmnscpmfpeare pmsymbmcpetmkxbnn,mbyu
dpypebnntmcpetmsyapesre,mkr spgt,mxbtmlpnnmvpmsnnsvpebnmbyum erkkwmGqsk
urpkmyrgmbffnt,mqrlpcpe,mgrmXskkmVbgpk;mkqpmskmryntmgrrmdrrumybg.epumbyu
grrmksnntmgrmk.sgmxp;mv.g,msymdpypebn,mkqpmskmcpetmx. qmgrmgqpmgbkgp
rampcpetmvrut,mgqr.dqmksydnpmbyumgqr.dqmfrrewmFrcpegtm pegbsyntmqbkmyrg
 rygeb gpumqpemxsyu:mSmepbnntmvpnspcp,msamkqpmqbumryntmbmkqsnnsydmsymgqp
lrenu,mkqpmlr.numvpmcpetmnsopntmgrmdscpmblbtmksjfpy pmramsg;mbyumyrvrut
skmbaebsumramqpe:mgqbgmskmbmdepbgm qbexw”

“Upbemxp!mv.gmlqbgmkqbnnmtr.mur?mqrlmkqbnnmtr.mpxfnrtmtr.ekpnamlqpymtr.
derlmrnu?”

“SamSmoyrlmxtkpna,mQbeespg,mxsypmskmbymb gscp,mv.ktmxsyu,mlsgqmbmdepbg
xbytmsyupfpyupygmepkr.e pk;mbyumSmurmyrgmfpe pscpmlqtmSmkqr.numvpmxrep
symlbygmrampxfnrtxpygmbgmaregtmremasagtmgqbymryp-byu-glpygtwmLrxby'k
.k.bnmr  .fbgsrykmramqbyumbyumxsyumlsnnmvpmbkmrfpymgrmxpmgqpymbkmgqpt
bepmyrl;mremlsgqmyrmsxfregbygmcbesbgsrywmSamSmueblmnpkk,mSmkqbnnmepbu
xrep;msamSmdscpm.fmx.ks ,mSmkqbnnmgbopmgrm befpg-lreowmByumbkmare
rvzp gkmramsygpepkg,mrvzp gkmaremgqpmbaap gsryk,mlqs qmskmsymge.gqmgqp
depbgmfrsygmramsyapesresgt,mgqpmlbygmramlqs qmskmepbnntmgqpmdepbgmpcsn
grmvpmbcrsupumsym_yrg_mxbeetsyd,mSmkqbnnmvpmcpetmlpnnmraa,mlsgqmbnnmgqp
 qsnuepymrambmkskgpemSmnrcpmkrmx. q,mgrm bepmbvr.gwmGqpepmlsnnmvpmpyr.dq
ramgqpx,msymbnnmfervbvsnsgt,mgrmk.ffntmpcpetmkregmramkpykbgsrymgqbg
up nsysydmnsapm bymyppuwmGqpepmlsnnmvpmpyr.dqmarempcpetmqrfpmbyumpcpet
apbe;mbyumgqr.dqmxtmbggb qxpygmgrmyrypm bymph.bnmgqbgmrambmfbepyg,msg
k.sgkmxtmsupbkmram rxaregmvpggpemgqbymlqbgmskmlbexpembyumvnsyupewmXt
ypfqplkmbyumysp pk!--Smkqbnnmragpymqbcpmbmysp pmlsgqmxpw”

“Urmtr.moyrlmXskkmVbgpk'kmysp p?mGqbgmsk,mSmoyrlmtr.mx.kgmqbcpmkppymqpe
bmq.yuepumgsxpk--v.gmbepmtr.mb h.bsygpu?”

“Rq!mtpk;mlpmbepmbnlbtkmare pumgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlqpypcpemkqpm rxpkmgr
Qsdqv.etwmVtmgqpmvtp,m_gqbg_mskmbnxrkgmpyr.dqmgrmf.gmrypmr.gmram ry psg
lsgqmbmysp pwmQpbcpymarevsu!mbgmnpbkg,mgqbgmSmkqr.numpcpemvrepmfprfnp
qbnamkrmx. qmbvr.gmbnnmgqpmOysdqgnptkmgrdpgqpe,mbkmkqpmurpkmbvr.gmZbyp
AbseabjwmRypmskmks omramgqpmcpetmybxpmramZbypmAbseabjwmPcpetmnpggpemaerx
qpemskmepbumaregtmgsxpkmrcpe;mqpem rxfnsxpygkmgrmbnnmaespyukmdrmer.yu
byumer.yumbdbsy;mbyumsamkqpmurpkmv.gmkpyumqpemb.ygmgqpmfbggpeymramb
kgrxb qpe,mremoysgmbmfbsemramdbegpekmaremqpemdebyuxrgqpe,mrypmqpbekmra
yrgqsydmpnkpmarembmxrygqwmSmlskqmZbypmAbseabjmcpetmlpnn;mv.gmkqpmgsepk
xpmgrmupbgqw”

Gqptmlpepmyrlmbfferb qsydmgqpm rggbdp,mbyumbnnmsunpmgrfs kmlpep
k.fpekpupuwmPxxbmlbkmcpetm rxfbkksrybgp;mbyumgqpmuskgepkkpkmramgqpmfrre
lpepmbkmk.epmramepnspamaerxmqpemfpekrybnmbggpygsrymbyumosyuypkk,mqpe
 r.ykpnmbyumqpemfbgspy p,mbkmaerxmqpemf.ekpwmKqpm.yupekgrrumgqpsemlbtk,
 r.numbnnrlmaremgqpsemsdyreby pmbyumgqpsemgpxfgbgsryk,mqbumyrmerxbygs 
pjfp gbgsrykmrampjgebreusybetmcseg.pmaerxmgqrkpmaremlqrxmpu. bgsrymqbu
urypmkrmnsggnp;mpygpepumsygrmgqpsemger.vnpkmlsgqmepbutmktxfbgqt,mbyu
bnlbtkmdbcpmqpembkkskgby pmlsgqmbkmx. qmsygpnnsdpy pmbkmdrru-lsnnwmSy
gqpmfepkpygmsykgby p,msgmlbkmks oypkkmbyumfrcpegtmgrdpgqpemlqs qmkqp
 bxpmgrmcsksg;mbyumbagpemepxbsysydmgqpepmbkmnrydmbkmkqpm r.numdscp
 rxaregmrembucs p,mkqpmh.sggpumgqpm rggbdpmlsgqmk. qmbymsxfepkksrymra
gqpmk pypmbkmxbupmqpemkbtmgrmQbeespg,mbkmgqptmlbnopumblbt,

“Gqpkpmbepmgqpmksdqgk,mQbeespg,mgrmurmrypmdrruwmQrlmgesansydmgqptmxbop
pcpetmgqsydmpnkpmbffpbe!--SmappnmyrlmbkmsamSm r.numgqsyomramyrgqsydmv.g
gqpkpmfrrem epbg.epkmbnnmgqpmepkgmramgqpmubt;mbyumtpg,mlqrm bymkbtmqrl
krrymsgmxbtmbnnmcbyskqmaerxmxtmxsyu?”

“Cpetmge.p,”mkbsumQbeespgwm“Frrem epbg.epk!mrypm bymgqsyomramyrgqsyd
pnkpw”

“Byumepbnnt,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomgqpmsxfepkksrymlsnnmkrrymvpmrcpe,”mkbsu
Pxxb,mbkmkqpm erkkpumgqpmnrlmqpudp,mbyumgrggpesydmarrgkgpfmlqs qmpyupu
gqpmybeerl,mknsffpetmfbgqmgqer.dqmgqpm rggbdpmdbeupy,mbyumver.dqgmgqpx
sygrmgqpmnbypmbdbsywm“Smurmyrgmgqsyomsgmlsnn,”mkgrffsydmgrmnrromry p
xrepmbgmbnnmgqpmr.glbeumlepg qpuypkkmramgqpmfnb p,mbyumep bnnmgqpmkgsnn
depbgpemlsgqsyw

“Rq!mupbe,myr,”mkbsumqpem rxfbysryw

GqptmlbnopumrywmGqpmnbypmxbupmbmknsdqgmvpyu;mbyumlqpymgqbgmvpyumlbk
fbkkpu,mXewmPngrymlbkmsxxpusbgpntmsymksdqg;mbyumkrmypbembkmgrmdscpmPxxb
gsxpmryntmgrmkbtmabegqpe,

“Bq!mQbeespg,mqpepm rxpkmbmcpetmk.uupymgesbnmramr.emkgbvsnsgtmsymdrru
gqr.dqgkwmLpnn,m(kxsnsyd,)mSmqrfpmsgmxbtmvpmbnnrlpumgqbgmsam rxfbkksry
qbkmferu. pumpjpegsrymbyumepnspamgrmgqpmk.aapepek,msgmqbkmurypmbnnmgqbg
skmge.ntmsxfregbygwmSamlpmappnmaremgqpmlepg qpu,mpyr.dqmgrmurmbnnmlpm by
aremgqpx,mgqpmepkgmskmpxfgtmktxfbgqt,mryntmuskgepkksydmgrmr.ekpncpkw”

Qbeespgm r.numz.kgmbyklpe,m“Rq!mupbe,mtpk,”mvparepmgqpmdpygnpxbymzrsypu
gqpxwmGqpmlbygkmbyumk.aapesydkmramgqpmfrremabxsnt,mqrlpcpe,mlpepmgqp
asekgmk.vzp gmrymxppgsydwmQpmqbumvppymdrsydmgrm bnnmrymgqpxwmQskmcsksg
qpmlr.numyrlmupape;mv.gmgqptmqbumbmcpetmsygpepkgsydmfbenptmbvr.g
lqbgm r.numvpmurypmbyumkqr.numvpmurypwmXewmPngrymgqpymg.eypumvb omgr
b  rxfbytmgqpxw

“Grmabnnmsymlsgqmpb qmrgqpemrymk. qmbympeebyumbkmgqsk,”mgqr.dqgmPxxb;
“grmxppgmsymbm qbesgbvnpmk qpxp;mgqskmlsnnmvesydmbmdepbgmsy epbkp
ramnrcpmrympb qmksupwmSmkqr.numyrgmlryupemsamsgmlpepmgrmvesydmrymgqp
up nbebgsrywmSgmx.kg,msamSmlpepmyrgmqpepwmSmlskqmSmlpepmbytlqpepmpnkpw”

Byjsr.kmgrmkpfbebgpmqpekpnamaerxmgqpxmbkmabembkmkqpm r.nu,mkqpmkrry
bagpelbeukmgrromfrkkpkksrymrambmybeerlmarrgfbgq,mbmnsggnpmebskpumrymryp
ksupmramgqpmnbyp,mnpbcsydmgqpxmgrdpgqpemsymgqpmxbsymerbuwmV.gmkqpmqbu
yrgmvppymgqpepmglrmxsy.gpkmlqpymkqpmar.yumgqbgmQbeespg'kmqbvsgkmra
upfpyupy pmbyumsxsgbgsrymlpepmvesydsydmqpem.fmgrr,mbyumgqbg,msymkqreg,
gqptmlr.numvrgqmvpmkrrymbagpemqpewmGqskmlr.numyrgmur;mkqpmsxxpusbgpnt
kgrffpu,m.yupemfepgpy pmramqbcsydmkrxpmbngpebgsrymgrmxbopmsymgqpmnb syd
ramqpemqbna-vrrg,mbyumkgrrfsydmurlymsym rxfnpgpmr  .fbgsrymramgqp
arrgfbgq,mvpddpumgqpxmgrmqbcpmgqpmdrruypkkmgrmlbnomry,mbyumkqpmlr.nu
arnnrlmsymqbnambmxsy.gpwmGqptmusumbkmgqptmlpepmupksepu;mbyumvtmgqpmgsxp
kqpmz.udpumsgmepbkrybvnpmgrmqbcpmurypmlsgqmqpemvrrg,mkqpmqbumgqpm rxareg
ramabegqpemupnbtmsymqpemfrlpe,mvpsydmrcpegbopymvtmbm qsnumaerxmgqp
 rggbdp,mkpggsydmr.g,mb  reusydmgrmreupek,mlsgqmqpemfsg qpe,mgrmapg q
vergqmaerxmQbegaspnuwmGrmlbnomvtmgqpmksupmramgqskm qsnu,mbyumgbnomgr
byumh.pkgsrymqpe,mlbkmgqpmxrkgmybg.ebnmgqsydmsymgqpmlrenu,mremlr.numqbcp
vppymgqpmxrkgmybg.ebn,mqbumkqpmvppymb gsydmz.kgmgqpymlsgqr.gmupksdy;
byumvtmgqskmxpbykmgqpmrgqpekmlpepmkgsnnmbvnpmgrmoppfmbqpbu,mlsgqr.g
bytmrvnsdbgsrymramlbsgsydmaremqpewmKqpmdbsypumrymgqpx,mqrlpcpe,
sycrn.ygbesnt:mgqpm qsnu'kmfb pmlbkmh.s o,mbyumgqpsekmebgqpemknrl;
byumkqpmlbkmgqpmxrepm ry peypumbgmsg,maerxmgqpsemvpsydmpcsupygntmsy
bm rycpekbgsrymlqs qmsygpepkgpumgqpxwmXewmPngrymlbkmkfpbosydmlsgq
bysxbgsry,mQbeespgmnskgpysydmlsgqmbmcpetmfnpbkpumbggpygsry;mbyumPxxb,
qbcsydmkpygmgqpm qsnumry,mlbkmvpdsyysydmgrmgqsyomqrlmkqpmxsdqgmueblmvb o
bmnsggnpmxrep,mlqpymgqptmvrgqmnrropumber.yu,mbyumkqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmzrsy
gqpxw

XewmPngrymlbkmkgsnnmgbnosyd,mkgsnnmpydbdpumsymkrxpmsygpepkgsydmupgbsn;
byumPxxbmpjfpespy pumkrxpmuskbffrsygxpygmlqpymkqpmar.yumgqbgmqpmlbkmrynt
dscsydmqskmabsem rxfbysrymbymb  r.ygmramgqpmtpkgpeubt'kmfbegtmbgmqsk
aespyum rnp'k,mbyumgqbgmkqpmlbkm rxpmsymqpekpnamaremgqpmKgsngrym qppkp,
gqpmyregqmLsngkqsep,mgqpmv.ggpe,mgqpm pnpet,mgqpmvppg-errg,mbyumbnnmgqp
upkkpegw

“Gqskmlr.numkrrymqbcpmnpumgrmkrxpgqsydmvpggpe,mram r.ekp,”mlbkmqpe
 rykrnsydmepanp gsry;m“bytmgqsydmsygpepkgkmvpglppymgqrkpmlqrmnrcp;mbyu
bytmgqsydmlsnnmkpecpmbkmsygeru. gsrymgrmlqbgmskmypbemgqpmqpbegwmSamS
 r.numv.gmqbcpmopfgmnrydpemblbt!”

Gqptmyrlmlbnopumrymgrdpgqpemh.spgnt,mgsnnmlsgqsymcsplmramgqpmcs bebdp
fbnpk,mlqpymbmk.uupymepkrn.gsry,mrambgmnpbkgmdpggsydmQbeespgmsygrmgqp
qr.kp,mxbupmqpembdbsymasyumkrxpgqsydmcpetmx. qmbxskkmbvr.gmqpemvrrg,mbyu
abnnmvpqsyumgrmbeebydpmsgmry pmxrepwmKqpmgqpymveropmgqpmnb pmraamkqreg,
byumupjgper.kntmgqerlsydmsgmsygrmbmusg q,mlbkmfepkpygntmrvnsdpumgr
pygepbgmgqpxmgrmkgrf,mbyumb oyrlnpudpumqpemsybvsnsgtmgrmf.gmqpekpnamgr
esdqgkmkrmbkmgrmvpmbvnpmgrmlbnomqrxpmsymgrnpebvnpm rxaregw

“Fbegmramxtmnb pmskmdryp,”mkbsumkqp,m“byumSmurmyrgmoyrlmqrlmSmbxmgr
 rygescpwmSmepbnntmbxmbmxrkgmger.vnpkrxpm rxfbysrymgrmtr.mvrgq,mv.gmS
qrfpmSmbxmyrgmragpymkrmsnn-ph.sffpuwmXewmPngry,mSmx.kgmvpdmnpbcpmgrmkgrf
bgmtr.emqr.kp,mbyumbkomtr.emqr.kpoppfpemarembmvsgmramesvvbyumremkgesyd,
rembytmgqsydmz.kgmgrmoppfmxtmvrrgmryw”

XewmPngrymnrropumbnnmqbffsypkkmbgmgqskmferfrksgsry;mbyumyrgqsydm r.nu
pj ppumqskmbnpegypkkmbyumbggpygsrymsym ryu. gsydmgqpxmsygrmqskmqr.kpmbyu
pyupbcr.esydmgrmxbopmpcpetmgqsydmbffpbemgrmbucbygbdpwmGqpmerrxmgqptmlpep
gbopymsygrmlbkmgqpmrypmqpm qspantmr  .fspu,mbyumnrrosydmarelbeuk;mvpqsyu
sgmlbkmbyrgqpemlsgqmlqs qmsgmsxxpusbgpntm rxx.ys bgpu;mgqpmurremvpglppy
gqpxmlbkmrfpy,mbyumPxxbmfbkkpumsygrmsgmlsgqmgqpmqr.kpoppfpemgrmep pscp
qpembkkskgby pmsymgqpmxrkgm rxaregbvnpmxbyypewmKqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmnpbcp
gqpmurrembzbembkmkqpmar.yumsg;mv.gmkqpma.nntmsygpyupumgqbgmXewmPngry
kqr.num nrkpmsgwmSgmlbkmyrgm nrkpu,mqrlpcpe,msgmkgsnnmepxbsypumbzbe;mv.g
vtmpydbdsydmgqpmqr.kpoppfpemsymsy pkkbygm rycpekbgsry,mkqpmqrfpumgrmxbop
sgmfeb gs bvnpmaremqsxmgrm q.kpmqskmrlymk.vzp gmsymgqpmbuzrsysyd
errxwmAremgpymxsy.gpkmkqpm r.numqpbemyrgqsydmv.gmqpekpnawmSgm r.numvp
fergeb gpumyrmnrydpewmKqpmlbkmgqpymrvnsdpumgrmvpmasyskqpu,mbyumxbopmqpe
bffpbeby pw

GqpmnrcpekmlpepmkgbyusydmgrdpgqpembgmrypmramgqpmlsyurlkwmSgmqbumbmxrkg
abcr.ebvnpmbkfp g;mbyu,maremqbnambmxsy.gp,mPxxbmapngmgqpmdnretmramqbcsyd
k qpxpumk.  pkka.nntwmV.gmsgmlr.numyrgmur;mqpmqbumyrgm rxpmgrmgqpmfrsygw
Qpmqbumvppymxrkgmbdeppbvnp,mxrkgmupnsdqga.n;mqpmqbumgrnumQbeespgmgqbg
qpmqbumkppymgqpxmdrmvt,mbyumqbumf.efrkpntmarnnrlpumgqpx;mrgqpemnsggnp
dbnnbygespkmbyumbnn.ksrykmqbumvppymuerfg,mv.gmyrgqsydmkpesr.kw

“ b.gsr.k,mcpetm b.gsr.k,”mgqr.dqgmPxxb;m“qpmbucby pkmsy qmvtmsy q,mbyu
lsnnmqbibeumyrgqsydmgsnnmqpmvpnspcpkmqsxkpnamkp .epw”

Kgsnn,mqrlpcpe,mgqr.dqmpcpetmgqsydmqbumyrgmvppymb  rxfnskqpumvtmqpe
sydpysr.kmupcs p,mkqpm r.numyrgmv.gmanbggpemqpekpnamgqbgmsgmqbumvppy
gqpmr  bksrymramx. qmfepkpygmpyzrtxpygmgrmvrgq,mbyumx.kgmvpmnpbusydmgqpx
arelbeumgrmgqpmdepbgmpcpygw



 QBFGPEmJS


XewmPngrymx.kgmyrlmvpmnpagmgrmqsxkpnawmSgmlbkmyrmnrydpemsymPxxb'kmfrlpe
grmk.fpesygpyumqskmqbffsypkkmremh.s opymqskmxpbk.epkwmGqpm rxsydmramqpe
kskgpe'kmabxsntmlbkmkrmcpetmypbembgmqbyu,mgqbgmasekgmsymbygs sfbgsry,
byumgqpymsymepbnsgt,msgmvp bxpmqpy paregqmqpemfesxpmrvzp gmramsygpepkg;
byumu.esydmgqpmgpymubtkmramgqpsemkgbtmbgmQbegaspnumsgmlbkmyrgmgrmvp
pjfp gpu--kqpmusumyrgmqpekpnampjfp g--gqbgmbytmgqsydmvptryumr  bksrybn,
areg.sgr.kmbkkskgby pm r.numvpmbaareupumvtmqpemgrmgqpmnrcpekwmGqptmxsdqg
bucby pmebfsuntmsamgqptmlr.nu,mqrlpcpe;mgqptmx.kgmbucby pmkrxpqrlmre
rgqpemlqpgqpemgqptmlr.numremyrwmKqpmqbeuntmlskqpumgrmqbcpmxrepmnpsk.ep
aremgqpxwmGqpepmbepmfprfnp,mlqrmgqpmxrepmtr.murmaremgqpx,mgqpmnpkkmgqpt
lsnnmurmaremgqpxkpncpkw

XewmbyumXekwmZrqymOysdqgnpt,maerxmqbcsydmvppymnrydpemgqbym.k.bnmbvkpyg
aerxmK.eet,mlpepmpj sgsydmram r.ekpmebgqpemxrepmgqbymgqpm.k.bnmsygpepkgw
Gsnnmgqskmtpbe,mpcpetmnrydmcb bgsrymksy pmgqpsemxbeesbdpmqbumvppy
uscsupumvpglppymQbegaspnumbyumUrylpnnmBvvpt;mv.gmbnnmgqpmqrnsubtkmra
gqskmb.g.xymqbumvppymdscpymgrmkpb-vbgqsydmaremgqpm qsnuepy,mbyumsgmlbk
gqpeparepmxbytmxrygqkmksy pmgqptmqbumvppymkppymsymbmepd.nbemlbtmvtmgqpse
K.eetm ryypjsryk,mremkppymbgmbnnmvtmXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrm r.numyrgmvp
syu. pumgrmdpgmkrmabembkmNryury,mpcpymaremfrremSkbvpnnb'kmkbop;mbyu
lqrm rykph.pygntmlbkmyrlmxrkgmypecr.kntmbyumbffepqpykscpntmqbfftmsy
arepkgbnnsydmgqskmgrrmkqregmcsksgw

Qpmgqr.dqgmx. qmramgqpmpcsnkmramgqpmzr.eyptmaremqpe,mbyumyrgmbmnsggnp
ramgqpmabgsd.pkmramqskmrlymqrekpkmbyum rb qxbymlqrmlpepmgrmvesydmkrxp
ramgqpmfbegtmgqpmnbkgmqbnamramgqpmlbt;mv.gmqskmbnbexkmlpepmyppunpkk;
gqpmksjgppymxsnpkmvpsydmqbffsntmb  rxfnskqpu,mbyumXewmbyumXekwmZrqy
Oysdqgnpt,mgqpsemascpm qsnuepy,mbyumbm rxfpgpygmy.xvpemramy.ekpet-xbsuk,
bnnmepb qsydmQbegaspnumsymkbapgtwmGqpmv.kgnpmbyumzrtmramk. qmbymbeescbn,
gqpmxbytmgrmvpmgbnopumgr,mlpn rxpu,mpy r.ebdpu,mbyumcbesr.kntmuskfpekpu
byumuskfrkpumra,mferu. pumbmyrskpmbyum rya.ksrymlqs qmqskmypecpkm r.nu
yrgmqbcpmvreypm.yupembytmrgqpem b.kp,myremqbcpmpyu.epumx. qmnrydpempcpy
aremgqsk;mv.gmgqpmlbtkmramQbegaspnumbyumgqpmappnsydkmramqpemabgqpe
lpepmkrmepkfp gpumvtmXekwmZrqymOysdqgnpt,mgqbgmsymkfsgpmramxbgpeybn
krns sg.upmaremgqpmsxxpusbgpmpyzrtxpygmramqpemnsggnpmrypk,mbyumaremgqpse
qbcsydmsykgbygntmbnnmgqpmnsvpegtmbyumbggpyuby p,mbnnmgqpmpbgsydmbyu
uesyosyd,mbyumknppfsydmbyumfnbtsyd,mlqs qmgqptm r.numfrkksvntmlskqmare,
lsgqr.gmgqpmkxbnnpkgmupnbt,mgqpm qsnuepymlpepmypcpembnnrlpumgrmvpmnryd
bmuskg.evby pmgrmqsx,mpsgqpemsymgqpxkpncpkmremsymbytmepkgnpkkmbggpyuby p
rymgqpxw

XekwmZrqymOysdqgnptmlbkmbmfepggt,mpnpdbygmnsggnpmlrxby,mramdpygnp,mh.spg
xbyypek,mbyumbmuskfrksgsrymepxbeobvntmbxsbvnpmbyumbaap gsrybgp;mlebfg
.fmsymqpemabxsnt;mbmupcrgpumlsap,mbmurbgsydmxrgqpe,mbyumkrmgpyupent
bggb qpumgrmqpemabgqpembyumkskgpemgqbg,mv.gmaremgqpkpmqsdqpemgspk,mb
lbexpemnrcpmxsdqgmqbcpmkppxpumsxfrkksvnpwmKqpm r.numypcpemkppmbmab.ng
symbytmramgqpxwmKqpmlbkmyrgmbmlrxbymramkgerydm.yupekgbyusydmrembyt
h.s oypkk;mbyumlsgqmgqskmepkpxvnby pmramqpemabgqpe,mkqpmsyqpesgpumbnkr
x. qmramqskm rykgsg.gsry;mlbkmupns bgpmsymqpemrlymqpbngq,mrcpe- bepa.n
ramgqbgmramqpem qsnuepy,mqbumxbytmapbekmbyumxbytmypecpk,mbyumlbkmbkmaryu
ramqpemrlymXewmLsydaspnumsymgrlymbkmqpemabgqpem r.numvpmramXewmFpeetw
Gqptmlpepmbnsopmgrr,msymbmdpypebnmvpypcrnpy pmramgpxfpe,mbyumbmkgeryd
qbvsgmramepdbeumarempcpetmrnumb h.bsygby pw

XewmZrqymOysdqgnptmlbkmbmgbnn,mdpygnpxby-nsop,mbyumcpetm npcpemxby;
esksydmsymqskmferapkksry,murxpkgs ,mbyumepkfp gbvnpmsymqskmfescbgp
 qbeb gpe;mv.gmlsgqmepkpecpumxbyypekmlqs qmfepcpygpumqskmvpsydmdpypebnnt
fnpbksyd;mbyum bfbvnpmramvpsydmkrxpgsxpkmr.gmramq.xr.ewmQpmlbkmyrgmby
snn-gpxfpepumxby,myrgmkrmragpym.yepbkrybvntm erkkmbkmgrmupkpecpmk. qmb
epferb q;mv.gmqskmgpxfpemlbkmyrgmqskmdepbgmfpeap gsry;mbyu,msyuppu,mlsgq
k. qmbmlrekqsffsydmlsap,msgmlbkmqbeuntmfrkksvnpmgqbgmbytmybg.ebnmupap gk
symsgmkqr.numyrgmvpmsy epbkpuwmGqpmpjgepxpmklppgypkkmramqpemgpxfpe
x.kgmq.egmqskwmQpmqbumbnnmgqpm npbeypkkmbyumh.s oypkkmramxsyumlqs qmkqp
lbygpu,mbyumqpm r.numkrxpgsxpkmb gmbym.ydeb sr.k,mremkbtmbmkpcpepmgqsydw

Qpmlbkmyrgmbmdepbgmabcr.esgpmlsgqmqskmabsemkskgpe-sy-nblwmYrgqsydmleryd
symqsxmpk bfpumqpewmKqpmlbkmh.s omsymappnsydmgqpmnsggnpmsyz.espkmgr
Skbvpnnb,mlqs qmSkbvpnnbmypcpemapngmqpekpnawmFpeqbfkmkqpmxsdqgmqbcp
fbkkpumrcpemxrepmqbumqskmxbyypekmvppymanbggpesydmgrmSkbvpnnb'kmkskgpe,
v.gmgqptmlpepmryntmgqrkpmrambm bnxntmosyumvergqpembyumaespyu,mlsgqr.g
febskpmbyumlsgqr.gmvnsyuypkk;mv.gmqbeuntmbytmupdeppmramfpekrybn
 rxfnsxpygm r.numqbcpmxbupmqpemepdbeunpkkmramgqbgmdepbgpkgmab.ngmra
bnnmsymqpemptpkmlqs qmqpmkrxpgsxpkmapnnmsygr,mgqpmlbygmramepkfp ga.n
arevpbeby pmgrlbeukmqpemabgqpewmGqpepmqpmqbumyrgmbnlbtkmgqpmfbgspy p
gqbgm r.numqbcpmvppymlskqpuwmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmfp .nsbesgspkmbyu
asudpgsypkkmlpepmkrxpgsxpkmfercrosydmqsxmgrmbmebgsrybnmepxrykgeby pmre
kqbefmepgregmph.bnntmsnn-vpkgrlpuwmSgmusumyrgmragpymqbffpy;maremXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnptmqbumepbnntmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremqskmabgqpe-sy-nbl,mbyumdpypebnnt
bmkgerydmkpykpmramlqbgmlbkmu.pmgrmqsx;mv.gmsgmlbkmgrrmragpymaremPxxb'k
 qbesgt,mpkfp sbnntmbkmgqpepmlbkmbnnmgqpmfbsymrambffepqpyksrymaeph.pygnt
grmvpmpyu.epu,mgqr.dqmgqpmraapy pm bxpmyrgwmGqpmvpdsyysyd,mqrlpcpe,mra
pcpetmcsksgmuskfnbtpumyrypmv.gmgqpmferfpepkgmappnsydk,mbyumgqskmvpsydmra
yp pkksgtmkrmkqregmxsdqgmvpmqrfpumgrmfbkkmblbtmsym.yk.nnspum reusbnsgtw
Gqptmqbumyrgmvppymnrydmkpbgpumbyum rxfrkpumlqpymXewmLrruqr.kp,mlsgqmb
xpnby qrntmkqbopmramgqpmqpbumbyumbmksdq,m bnnpumqskmub.dqgpe'kmbggpygsry
grmgqpmkbum qbydpmbgmQbegaspnumksy pmkqpmqbumvppymgqpepmnbkgw

“Bq,mxtmupbe,”mkbsumqp,m“frremXskkmGbtnre--Sgmskmbmdespcr.kmv.ksypkkw”

“Rqmtpk,mkse,”m espumkqpmlsgqmepbutmktxfbgqt,m“qrlmtr.mx.kgmxskkmqpe!
ByumupbemPxxb,mgrr!--Lqbgmbmuepbua.nmnrkkmgrmtr.mvrgq!--Smqbcpmvppymkr
despcpumaremtr.w--Sm r.numyrgmsxbdsypmqrlmtr.m r.numfrkksvntmurmlsgqr.g
qpew--Sgmskmbmkbum qbydpmsyuppuw--V.gmSmqrfpmkqpmskmfepggtmlpnn,mksew”

“Fepggtmlpnn,mxtmupbe--Smqrfp--fepggtmlpnnw--Smurmyrgmoyrlmv.gmgqbgmgqp
fnb pmbdeppkmlsgqmqpemgrnpebvntw”

XewmZrqymOysdqgnptmqpepmbkopumPxxbmh.spgntmlqpgqpemgqpepmlpepmbytmur.vgk
ramgqpmbsemramEbyubnnkw

“Rq!myr--yrypmsymgqpmnpbkgwmSmypcpemkblmXekwmLpkgrymvpggpemsymxt
nsap--ypcpemnrrosydmkrmlpnnwmFbfbmskmryntmkfpbosydmqskmrlymepdepgw”

“Cpetmx. qmgrmgqpmqryr.emramvrgq,”mlbkmgqpmqbyukrxpmepfntw

“Byumurmtr.mkppmqpe,mkse,mgrnpebvntmragpy?”mbkopumSkbvpnnbmsymgqp
fnbsygscpmgrypmlqs qmz.kgmk.sgpumqpemabgqpew

XewmLrruqr.kpmqpksgbgpuw--“Yrgmypbemkrmragpy,mxtmupbe,mbkmSm r.numlskqw”

“Rq!mfbfb,mlpmqbcpmxskkpumkppsydmgqpxmv.gmrypmpygsepmubtmksy pmgqpt
xbeespuwmPsgqpemsymgqpmxreysydmrempcpysydmrampcpetmubt,mpj pfgsydmryp,
qbcpmlpmkppympsgqpemXewmLpkgrymremXekwmLpkgry,mbyumdpypebnntmvrgq,
psgqpembgmEbyubnnkmremqpep--byumbkmtr.mxbtmk.ffrkp,mSkbvpnnb,mxrkg
aeph.pygntmqpepwmGqptmbepmcpet,mcpetmosyumsymgqpsemcsksgkwmXewmLpkgry
skmepbnntmbkmosyumbkmqpekpnawmFbfb,msamtr.mkfpbomsymgqbgmxpnby qrntmlbt,
tr.mlsnnmvpmdscsydmSkbvpnnbmbmabnkpmsupbmram.kmbnnwmPcpetmvrutmx.kgmvp
blbepmgqbgmXskkmGbtnremx.kgmvpmxskkpu,mv.gmpcpetmvrutmr.dqgmbnkrmgrmvp
bkk.epumgqbgmXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymurmepbnntmfepcpygmr.emxskksydmqpemvt
bytmxpbykmgrmgqpmpjgpygmlpmr.ekpncpkmbygs sfbgpu--lqs qmskmgqpmpjb g
ge.gqw”

“Z.kgmbkmsgmkqr.numvp,”mkbsumXewmZrqymOysdqgnpt,m“byumz.kgmbkmSmqrfpu
sgmlbkmaerxmtr.emnpggpekwmQpemlskqmramkqplsydmtr.mbggpygsrym r.numyrgmvp
ur.vgpu,mbyumqskmvpsydmbmuskpydbdpumbyumkr sbnmxbymxbopkmsgmbnnmpbktwmS
qbcpmvppymbnlbtkmgpnnsydmtr.,mxtmnrcp,mgqbgmSmqbumyrmsupbmramgqpm qbydp
vpsydmkrmcpetmxbgpesbnmgrmQbegaspnumbkmtr.mbffepqpyupu;mbyumyrlmtr.mqbcp
Pxxb'kmb  r.yg,mSmqrfpmtr.mlsnnmvpmkbgskaspuw”

“Lqt,mgrmvpmk.ep,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp--“tpk,m pegbsynt--Sm byyrg
upytmgqbgmXekwmLpkgry,mfrremXekwmLpkgry,murpkm rxpmbyumkppm.kmfepggt
ragpy--v.gmgqpy--kqpmskmbnlbtkmrvnsdpumgrmdrmblbtmbdbsyw”

“Sgmlr.numvpmcpetmqbeum.frymXewmLpkgrymsamkqpmusumyrg,mfbfbw--Tr.mh.sgp
aredpgmfrremXewmLpkgryw”

“Smgqsyo,msyuppu,”mkbsumZrqymOysdqgnptmfnpbkbygnt,m“gqbgmXewmLpkgrymqbk
krxpmnsggnpm nbsxwmTr.mbyumS,mPxxb,mlsnnmcpyg.epmgrmgbopmgqpmfbegmramgqp
frremq.kvbyuwmS,mvpsydmbmq.kvbyu,mbyumtr.myrgmvpsydmbmlsap,mgqpm nbsxk
ramgqpmxbymxbtmcpetmnsopntmkgesopm.kmlsgqmph.bnmare pwmBkmaremSkbvpnnb,
kqpmqbkmvppymxbeespumnrydmpyr.dqmgrmkppmgqpm rycpyspy pmramf.ggsydmbnn
gqpmXewmLpkgrykmbksupmbkmx. qmbkmkqpm byw”

“Xp,mxtmnrcp,”m espumqskmlsap,mqpbesydmbyum.yupekgbyusydmryntmsymfbegw--
“Bepmtr.mgbnosydmbvr.gmxp?--Smbxmk.epmyrvrutmr.dqgmgrmvp,mrem bymvp,mb
depbgpembucr bgpmaremxbgesxrytmgqbymSmbx;mbyumsamsgmqbumyrgmvppymare
gqpmxskpetmramqpemnpbcsydmQbegaspnu,mSmkqr.numypcpemqbcpmgqr.dqgmramXskk
Gbtnremv.gmbkmgqpmxrkgmareg.ybgpmlrxbymsymgqpmlrenu;mbyumbkmgrmknsdqgsyd
XewmLpkgry,mgqbgmpj pnnpygmXewmLpkgry,mSmgqsyomgqpepmskmyrgqsydmqpmurpk
yrgmupkpecpwmSmvpnspcpmqpmskmrypmramgqpmcpetmvpkg-gpxfpepumxpymgqbgmpcpe
pjskgpuwmPj pfgsydmtr.ekpnambyumtr.emvergqpe,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmqskmph.bn
aremgpxfpewmSmkqbnnmypcpemaredpgmqskmantsydmQpyet'kmosgpmaremqsxmgqbg
cpetmlsyutmubtmnbkgmPbkgpe--byumpcpemksy pmqskmfbegs .nbemosyuypkkmnbkg
Kpfgpxvpemglpncpxrygqmsymlesgsydmgqbgmyrgp,mbgmglpncpmr' nr ombgmysdqg,
rymf.efrkpmgrmbkk.epmxpmgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyrmk benpgmapcpembgm rvqbx,mS
qbcpmvppym rycsy pumgqpepm r.numyrgmvpmbmxrepmappnsydmqpbegmyrembmvpggpe
xbymsympjskgpy pw--Sambytmvrutm bymupkpecpmqsx,msgmx.kgmvpmXskkmGbtnrew”

“Lqpepmskmgqpmtr.ydmxby?”mkbsumZrqymOysdqgnptwm“Qbkmqpmvppymqpepmrymgqsk
r  bksry--remqbkmqpmyrg?”

“Qpmqbkmyrgmvppymqpepmtpg,”mepfnspumPxxbwm“Gqpepmlbkmbmkgeryd
pjfp gbgsrymramqskm rxsydmkrrymbagpemgqpmxbeesbdp,mv.gmsgmpyupumsy
yrgqsyd;mbyumSmqbcpmyrgmqpbeumqsxmxpygsrypumnbgpntw”

“V.gmtr.mkqr.numgpnnmgqpxmramgqpmnpggpe,mxtmupbe,”mkbsumqpemabgqpew
“QpmlergpmbmnpggpemgrmfrremXekwmLpkgry,mgrm rydebg.nbgpmqpe,mbyumbmcpet
ferfpe,mqbyukrxpmnpggpemsgmlbkwmKqpmkqplpumsgmgrmxpwmSmgqr.dqgmsgmcpet
lpnnmurypmramqsxmsyuppuwmLqpgqpemsgmlbkmqskmrlymsupbmtr.moyrl,mryp
 byyrgmgpnnwmQpmskmv.gmtr.yd,mbyumqskm.y np,mfpeqbfk--”

“Xtmupbemfbfb,mqpmskmgqepp-byu-glpygtwmTr.maredpgmqrlmgsxpmfbkkpkw”

“Gqepp-byu-glpygt!--skmqpmsyuppu?--Lpnn,mSm r.numyrgmqbcpmgqr.dqg
sg--byumqpmlbkmv.gmglrmtpbekmrnumlqpymqpmnrkgmqskmfrremxrgqpe!mLpnn,
gsxpmurpkmantmsyuppu!--byumxtmxpxretmskmcpetmvbuwmQrlpcpe,msgmlbkmby
pj ppusydmdrru,mfepggtmnpggpe,mbyumdbcpmXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymbmdepbgmupbn
ramfnpbk.epwmSmepxpxvpemsgmlbkmlesggpymaerxmLptxr.gq,mbyumubgpumKpfgw
28gq--byumvpdby,m'XtmupbemXbubx,'mv.gmSmaredpgmqrlmsgmlpygmry;mbyumsg
lbkmksdypum'Awm wmLpkgrym q.e qsnnw'--Smepxpxvpemgqbgmfpeap gntw”

“Qrlmcpetmfnpbksydmbyumferfpemramqsx!”m espumgqpmdrru-qpbegpumXekwmZrqy
Oysdqgnptwm“Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqskmvpsydmbmxrkgmbxsbvnpmtr.ydmxbywmV.g
qrlmkbumsgmskmgqbgmqpmkqr.numyrgmnscpmbgmqrxpmlsgqmqskmabgqpe!mGqpepmsk
krxpgqsydmkrmkqr osydmsymbm qsnu'kmvpsydmgbopymblbtmaerxmqskmfbepygkmbyu
ybg.ebnmqrxp!mSmypcpem r.num rxfepqpyumqrlmXewmLpkgrym r.numfbegmlsgq
qsxwmGrmdscpm.fmryp'km qsnu!mSmepbnntmypcpem r.numgqsyomlpnnmrambytmvrut
lqrmferfrkpumk. qmbmgqsydmgrmbytmvrutmpnkpw”

“Yrvrutmpcpemusumgqsyomlpnnmramgqpm q.e qsnnk,mSmaby t,”mrvkpecpumXew
ZrqymOysdqgnptm rrnntwm“V.gmtr.myppumyrgmsxbdsypmXewmLpkgrymgrmqbcpmapng
lqbgmtr.mlr.numappnmsymdscsydm.fmQpyetmremZrqywmXewmLpkgrymskmebgqpe
bympbkt,m qppea.n-gpxfpepumxby,mgqbymbmxbymramkgerydmappnsydk;mqpmgbopk
gqsydkmbkmqpmasyukmgqpx,mbyumxbopkmpyzrtxpygmramgqpxmkrxpqrlmremrgqpe,
upfpyusyd,mSmk.kfp g,mx. qmxrepm.frymlqbgmskm bnnpumkr spgtmaremqsk
 rxaregk,mgqbgmsk,m.frymgqpmfrlpemrampbgsydmbyumuesyosyd,mbyumfnbtsyd
lqskgmlsgqmqskmypsdqvr.ekmascpmgsxpkmbmlppo,mgqbym.frymabxsntmbaap gsry,
rembytmgqsydmgqbgmqrxpmbaareukw”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmnsopmlqbgmvreupepumrymbmepanp gsrymrymXewmLpkgry,mbyumqbu
qbnambmxsyumgrmgbopmsgm.f;mv.gmkqpmkge.ddnpu,mbyumnpgmsgmfbkkwmKqp
lr.numoppfmgqpmfpb pmsamfrkksvnp;mbyumgqpepmlbkmkrxpgqsydmqryr.ebvnpmbyu
cbn.bvnpmsymgqpmkgerydmurxpkgs mqbvsgk,mgqpmbnn-k.aas spy tmramqrxpmgr
qsxkpna,mlqpy pmepk.ngpumqpemvergqpe'kmuskfrksgsrymgrmnrromurlymry
gqpm rxxrymebgpmramkr sbnmsygpe r.ekp,mbyumgqrkpmgrmlqrxmsgmlbk
sxfregbygw--Sgmqbumbmqsdqm nbsxmgrmarevpbeby pw



 QBFGPEmJSS


XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmgrmusypmlsgqmgqpx--ebgqpembdbsykgmgqpmsy nsybgsrymra
XewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrmusumyrgmnsopmgqbgmbytmrypmkqr.numkqbepmlsgqmqsxmsy
Skbvpnnb'kmasekgmubtwmPxxb'kmkpykpmramesdqgmqrlpcpemqbumup supumsg;
byumvpksupkmgqpm ryksupebgsrymramlqbgmlbkmu.pmgrmpb qmvergqpe,mkqpmqbu
fbegs .nbemfnpbk.ep,maerxmgqpm se .xkgby pmramgqpmnbgpmuskbdeppxpyg
vpglppymXewmOysdqgnptmbyumqpekpna,msymfer .esydmqsxmgqpmferfpe
sycsgbgsryw

Kqpmqrfpumgqptmxsdqgmyrlmvp rxpmaespyukmbdbsywmKqpmgqr.dqgmsgmlbkmgsxp
grmxbopm.fwmXbosyd-.fmsyuppumlr.numyrgmurwm_Kqp_m pegbsyntmqbumyrgmvppy
symgqpmleryd,mbyum_qp_mlr.numypcpemrlymgqbgmqpmqbuwm ry pkksrymx.kgmvp
r.gmramgqpmh.pkgsry;mv.gmsgmlbkmgsxpmgrmbffpbemgrmaredpgmgqbgmgqptmqbu
pcpemh.beepnnpu;mbyumkqpmqrfpumsgmxsdqgmebgqpembkkskgmgqpmepkgrebgsrymra
aespyukqsf,mgqbgmlqpymqpm bxpmsygrmgqpmerrxmkqpmqbumrypmramgqpm qsnuepy
lsgqmqpe--gqpmtr.ydpkg,mbmys pmnsggnpmdsenmbvr.gmpsdqgmxrygqkmrnu,mlqr
lbkmyrlmxbosydmqpemasekgmcsksgmgrmQbegaspnu,mbyumcpetmqbfftmgrmvpmuby pu
bvr.gmsymqpemb.yg'kmbexkwmSgmusumbkkskg;maremgqr.dqmqpmvpdbymlsgqmdebcp
nrrokmbyumkqregmh.pkgsryk,mqpmlbkmkrrymnpumrymgrmgbnomramgqpxmbnnmsy
gqpm.k.bnmlbt,mbyumgrmgbopmgqpm qsnumr.gmramqpembexkmlsgqmbnnmgqp
.y pepxrysr.kypkkmramfpeap gmbxsgtwmPxxbmapngmgqptmlpepmaespyukmbdbsy;
byumgqpm rycs gsrymdscsydmqpembgmasekgmdepbgmkbgskab gsry,mbyumgqpy
bmnsggnpmkb. sypkk,mkqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmkbtsyd,mbkmqpmlbkmbuxsesydmgqp
vbvt,

“Lqbgmbm rxaregmsgmsk,mgqbgmlpmgqsyombnsopmbvr.gmr.emypfqplkmbyumysp pkw
Bkmgrmxpymbyumlrxpy,mr.emrfsysrykmbepmkrxpgsxpkmcpetmusaapepyg;mv.gmlsgq
epdbeumgrmgqpkpm qsnuepy,mSmrvkpecpmlpmypcpemuskbdeppw”

“Samtr.mlpepmbkmx. qmd.supumvtmybg.epmsymtr.empkgsxbgpmramxpymbyumlrxpy,
byumbkmnsggnpm.yupemgqpmfrlpemramaby tmbyumlqsxmsymtr.emupbnsydkmlsgq
gqpx,mbkmtr.mbepmlqpepmgqpkpm qsnuepymbepm ry peypu,mlpmxsdqgmbnlbtk
gqsyombnsopw”

“Grmvpmk.ep--r.emusk reuby spkmx.kgmbnlbtkmbeskpmaerxmxtmvpsydmsymgqp
lerydw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumqp,mkxsnsyd--“byumepbkrymdrruwmSmlbkmksjgppymtpbekmrnumlqpy
tr.mlpepmvreyw”

“Bmxbgpesbnmusaapepy pmgqpy,”mkqpmepfnspu--“byumyrmur.vgmtr.mlpepmx. q
xtmk.fpesremsymz.udxpygmbgmgqbgmfpesrumramr.emnscpk;mv.gmurpkmyrgmgqp
nbfkpmramryp-byu-glpygtmtpbekmvesydmr.em.yupekgbyusydkmbmdrrumupbn
ypbepe?”

“Tpk--bmdrrumupbnm_ypbepe_w”

“V.gmkgsnn,myrgmypbempyr.dqmgrmdscpmxpmbm qby pmramvpsydmesdqg,msamlp
gqsyomusaapepygntw”

“Smqbcpmkgsnnmgqpmbucbygbdpmramtr.mvtmksjgppymtpbek'mpjfpespy p,mbyumvt
yrgmvpsydmbmfepggtmtr.ydmlrxbymbyumbmkfrsnpum qsnuwm rxp,mxtmupbemPxxb,
npgm.kmvpmaespyuk,mbyumkbtmyrmxrepmbvr.gmsgwmGpnnmtr.emb.yg,mnsggnp
Pxxb,mgqbgmkqpmr.dqgmgrmkpgmtr.mbmvpggpempjbxfnpmgqbymgrmvpmepyplsydmrnu
despcby pk,mbyumgqbgmsamkqpmlpepmyrgmlerydmvparep,mkqpmskmyrlw”

“Gqbg'kmge.p,”mkqpm espu--“cpetmge.pwmNsggnpmPxxb,mderlm.fmbmvpggpe
lrxbymgqbymtr.emb.ygwmVpmsyasysgpntm npcpepembyumyrgmqbnamkrm ry psgpuw
Yrl,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbmlreumremglrmxrep,mbyumSmqbcpmurypwmBkmabembkmdrru
sygpygsrykmlpyg,mlpmlpepm_vrgq_mesdqg,mbyumSmx.kgmkbtmgqbgmyrmpaap gkmry
xtmksupmramgqpmbed.xpygmqbcpmtpgmfercpumlerydwmSmryntmlbygmgrmoyrlmgqbg
XewmXbegsymskmyrgmcpet,mcpetmvsggpentmuskbffrsygpuw”

“Bmxbym byyrgmvpmxrepmkr,”mlbkmqskmkqreg,ma.nnmbyklpew

“Bq!--SyuppumSmbxmcpetmkreetw-- rxp,mkqbopmqbyukmlsgqmxpw”

Gqskmqbumz.kgmgbopymfnb pmbyumlsgqmdepbgm reusbnsgt,mlqpymZrqymOysdqgnpt
xbupmqskmbffpbeby p,mbyum“Qrlmu'tpmur,mDpredp?”mbyum“Zrqy,mqrlmbep
tr.?”mk.  ppupumsymgqpmge.pmPydnskqmkgtnp,mv.etsydm.yupembm bnxypkkmgqbg
kppxpumbnnmv.gmsyusaapepy p,mgqpmepbnmbggb qxpygmlqs qmlr.numqbcpmnpu
psgqpemramgqpx,msameph.sksgp,mgrmurmpcpetmgqsydmaremgqpmdrrumramgqp
rgqpew

Gqpmpcpysydmlbkmh.spgmbyum rycpekbvnp,mbkmXewmLrruqr.kpmup nsypum beuk
pygsepntmaremgqpmkbopmram rxaregbvnpmgbnomlsgqmqskmupbemSkbvpnnb,mbyu
gqpmnsggnpmfbegtmxbupmglrmybg.ebnmuscsksryk;mrymrypmksupmqpmbyumqsk
ub.dqgpe;mrymgqpmrgqpemgqpmglrmXewmOysdqgnptk;mgqpsemk.vzp gkmgrgbnnt
uskgsy g,mremcpetmebepntmxsjsyd--byumPxxbmryntmr  bksrybnntmzrsysydmsy
rypmremgqpmrgqpew

Gqpmvergqpekmgbnopumramgqpsemrlym ry peykmbyumf.ek.sgk,mv.gmfesy sfbnnt
ramgqrkpmramgqpmpnupe,mlqrkpmgpxfpemlbkmvtmx. qmgqpmxrkgm rxx.ys bgscp,
byumlqrmlbkmbnlbtkmgqpmdepbgpemgbnopewmBkmbmxbdskgebgp,mqpmqbumdpypebnnt
krxpmfrsygmramnblmgrm ryk.ngmZrqymbvr.g,mre,mbgmnpbkg,mkrxpm .esr.k
byp urgpmgrmdscp;mbyumbkmbmabexpe,mbkmoppfsydmsymqbyumgqpmqrxp-abexmbg
Urylpnn,mqpmqbumgrmgpnnmlqbgmpcpetmaspnumlbkmgrmvpbemypjgmtpbe,mbyumgr
dscpmbnnmk. qmnr bnmsyarexbgsrymbkm r.numyrgmabsnmramvpsydmsygpepkgsyd
grmbmvergqpemlqrkpmqrxpmsgmqbumph.bnntmvppymgqpmnrydpkgmfbegmramqsk
nsap,mbyumlqrkpmbggb qxpygkmlpepmkgerydwmGqpmfnbymrambmuebsy,mgqpm qbydp
rambmapy p,mgqpmapnnsydmrambmgepp,mbyumgqpmupkgsybgsrymrampcpetmb epmare
lqpbg,mg.eysfk,mremkfesydm rey,mlbkmpygpepumsygrmlsgqmbkmx. qmph.bnsgt
ramsygpepkgmvtmZrqy,mbkmqskm rrnpemxbyypekmepyupepumfrkksvnp;mbyumsamqsk
lsnnsydmvergqpempcpemnpagmqsxmbytmgqsydmgrmsyh.sepmbvr.g,mqskmsyh.sespk
pcpymbfferb qpumbmgrypmrampbdpeypkkw

Lqsnpmgqptmlpepmgq.km rxaregbvntmr  .fspu,mXewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmpyzrtsydmb
a.nnmanrlmramqbfftmepdepgkmbyumapbea.nmbaap gsrymlsgqmqskmub.dqgpew

“XtmfrremupbemSkbvpnnb,”mkbsumqp,maryuntmgbosydmqpemqbyu,mbyu
sygpee.fgsyd,marembmaplmxrxpygk,mqpemv.ktmnbvr.ekmaremkrxpmrypmramqpe
ascpm qsnuepy--“Qrlmnrydmsgmsk,mqrlmgpeesvntmnrydmksy pmtr.mlpepmqpep!
Byumqrlmgsepumtr.mx.kgmvpmbagpemtr.emzr.eypt!mTr.mx.kgmdrmgrmvpumpbent,
xtmupbe--byumSmep rxxpyumbmnsggnpmde.pnmgrmtr.mvparepmtr.mdrw--Tr.mbyu
Smlsnnmqbcpmbmys pmvbksymramde.pnmgrdpgqpewmXtmupbemPxxb,mk.ffrkpmlpmbnn
qbcpmbmnsggnpmde.pnw”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmk.ffrkpmbytmk. qmgqsyd,moyrlsydmbkmkqpmusu,mgqbgmvrgqmgqp
XewmOysdqgnptkmlpepmbkm.yfpek.bubvnpmrymgqbgmbegs npmbkmqpekpna;--byu
glrmvbksykmryntmlpepmreupepuwmBagpembmnsggnpmxrepmusk r.ekpmsymfebskpmra
de.pn,mlsgqmkrxpmlryupesydmbgmsgkmyrgmvpsydmgbopympcpetmpcpysydmvtmpcpet
vrut,mqpmfer ppupumgrmkbt,mlsgqmbymbsemramdebcpmepanp gsry,

“Sgmlbkmbymblolbeumv.ksypkk,mxtmupbe,mtr.emkfpyusydmgqpmb.g.xymbgmKr.gq
Pyumsykgpbumram rxsydmqpepwmSmypcpemqbumx. qmrfsysrymramgqpmkpbmbsew”

“XewmLsydaspnumxrkgmkgepy.r.kntmep rxxpyupumsg,mkse--remlpmkqr.numyrg
qbcpmdrypwmQpmep rxxpyupumsgmarembnnmgqpm qsnuepy,mv.gmfbegs .nbentmare
gqpmlpboypkkmsymnsggnpmVpnnb'kmgqerbg,--vrgqmkpbmbsembyumvbgqsydw”

“Bq!mxtmupbe,mv.gmFpeetmqbumxbytmur.vgkmbvr.gmgqpmkpbmursydmqpembyt
drru;mbyumbkmgrmxtkpna,mSmqbcpmvppymnrydmfpeap gntm rycsy pu,mgqr.dq
fpeqbfkmSmypcpemgrnumtr.mkrmvparep,mgqbgmgqpmkpbmskmcpetmebepntmram.kp
grmbytmvrutwmSmbxmk.epmsgmbnxrkgmosnnpumxpmry pw”

“ rxp,m rxp,”m espumPxxb,mappnsydmgqskmgrmvpmbym.ykbapmk.vzp g,m“Smx.kg
vpdmtr.myrgmgrmgbnomramgqpmkpbwmSgmxbopkmxpmpycsr.kmbyumxskpebvnp;--S
lqrmqbcpmypcpemkppymsg!mKr.gqmPyumskmferqsvsgpu,msamtr.mfnpbkpwmXtmupbe
Skbvpnnb,mSmqbcpmyrgmqpbeumtr.mxbopmrypmsyh.setmbvr.gmXewmFpeetmtpg;mbyu
qpmypcpemaredpgkmtr.w”

“Rq!mdrrumXewmFpeet--qrlmskmqp,mkse?”

“Lqt,mfepggtmlpnn;mv.gmyrgmh.sgpmlpnnwmFrremFpeetmskmvsnsr.k,mbyumqpmqbk
yrgmgsxpmgrmgbopm bepmramqsxkpna--qpmgpnnkmxpmqpmqbkmyrgmgsxpmgrmgbop
 bepmramqsxkpna--lqs qmskmcpetmkbu--v.gmqpmskmbnlbtkmlbygpumbnnmer.yu
gqpm r.ygetwmSmk.ffrkpmgqpepmskmyrgmbmxbymsymk. qmfeb gs pmbytlqpepwmV.g
gqpymgqpepmskmyrgmkrm npcpembmxbymbytmlqpepw”

“ByumXekwmFpeetmbyumgqpm qsnuepy,mqrlmbepmgqpt?murmgqpm qsnuepymderl?
SmqbcpmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremXewmFpeetwmSmqrfpmqpmlsnnmvpm bnnsydmkrrywmQp
lsnnmvpmkrmfnpbkpumgrmkppmxtmnsggnpmrypkw”

“Smqrfpmqpmlsnnmvpmqpepmgr-xreerl,maremSmqbcpmbmh.pkgsrymremglrmgrmbko
qsxmbvr.gmxtkpnamramkrxpm rykph.py pwmByu,mxtmupbe,mlqpypcpemqpm rxpk,
tr.mqbumvpggpemnpgmqsxmnrrombgmnsggnpmVpnnb'kmgqerbgw”

“Rq!mxtmupbemkse,mqpemgqerbgmskmkrmx. qmvpggpemgqbgmSmqbcpmqbeuntmbyt
.ypbksypkkmbvr.gmsgwmPsgqpemvbgqsydmqbkmvppymramgqpmdepbgpkgmkpecs pmgr
qpe,mrempnkpmsgmskmgrmvpmbggesv.gpumgrmbympj pnnpygmpxver bgsrymramXew
Lsydaspnu'k,mlqs qmlpmqbcpmvppymbffntsydmbgmgsxpkmpcpemksy pmB.d.kgw”

“Sgmskmyrgmcpetmnsopnt,mxtmupbe,mgqbgmvbgqsydmkqr.numqbcpmvppymram.kp
grmqpe--byumsamSmqbumoyrlymtr.mlpepmlbygsydmbympxver bgsry,mSmlr.numqbcp
kfropymgr--

“Tr.mkppxmgrmxpmgrmqbcpmaredrggpymXekwmbyumXskkmVbgpk,”mkbsumPxxb,m“S
qbcpmyrgmqpbeumrypmsyh.setmbagpemgqpxw”

“Rq!mgqpmdrrumVbgpkpk--Smbxmh.sgpmbkqbxpumramxtkpna--v.gmtr.mxpygsry
gqpxmsymxrkgmramtr.emnpggpekwmSmqrfpmgqptmbepmh.sgpmlpnnwmDrrumrnumXekw
Vbgpk--Smlsnnm bnnm.frymqpemgr-xreerl,mbyumgbopmxtm qsnuepyw--Gqpt
bepmbnlbtkmkrmfnpbkpumgrmkppmxtm qsnuepyw--Byumgqbgmpj pnnpygmXskk
Vbgpk!--k. qmgqrer.dqmlregqtmfprfnp!--Qrlmbepmgqpt,mkse?”

“Lqt,mfepggtmlpnn,mxtmupbe,m.frymgqpmlqrnpwmV.gmfrremXekwmVbgpkmqbumb
vbum rnumbvr.gmbmxrygqmbdrw”

“QrlmkreetmSmbx!mV.gm rnukmlpepmypcpemkrmfepcbnpygmbkmgqptmqbcpmvppy
gqskmb.g.xywmXewmLsydaspnumgrnumxpmgqbgmqpmqbkmypcpemoyrlymgqpxmxrep
dpypebnmremqpbct--pj pfgmlqpymsgmqbkmvppymh.sgpmbymsyan.pyibw”

“Gqbgmqbkmvppymbmdrrumupbnmgqpm bkp,mxtmupbe;mv.gmyrgmgrmgqpmupdeppmtr.
xpygsrywmFpeetmkbtkmgqbgm rnukmqbcpmvppymcpetmdpypebn,mv.gmyrgmkrmqpbct
bkmqpmqbkmcpetmragpymoyrlymgqpxmsymYrcpxvpewmFpeetmurpkmyrgm bnnmsg
bngrdpgqpembmks ontmkpbkryw”

“Yr,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmgqbgmXewmLsydaspnum ryksupekmsgm_cpet_mks ont
pj pfg--

“Bq!mxtmfrremupbem qsnu,mgqpmge.gqmsk,mgqbgmsymNryurymsgmskmbnlbtk
bmks ontmkpbkrywmYrvrutmskmqpbngqtmsymNryury,myrvrutm bymvpwmSgmskmb
uepbua.nmgqsydmgrmqbcpmtr.mare pumgrmnscpmgqpep!mkrmabemraa!--byumgqp
bsemkrmvbu!”

“Yr,msyuppu--_lp_mbepmyrgmbgmbnnmsymbmvbumbsewmR.emfbegmramNryurymsk
cpetmk.fpesremgrmxrkgmrgqpek!--Tr.mx.kgmyrgm ryar.yum.kmlsgqmNryury
symdpypebn,mxtmupbemksewmGqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumramVe.ykls omKh.bepmskmcpet
usaapepygmaerxmbnxrkgmbnnmgqpmepkgwmLpmbepmkrmcpetmbset!mSmkqr.numvp
.ylsnnsyd,mSmrly,mgrmnscpmsymbytmrgqpemfbegmramgqpmgrly;--gqpepmsk
qbeuntmbytmrgqpemgqbgmSm r.numvpmkbgskaspumgrmqbcpmxtm qsnuepymsy:
v.gm_lp_mbepmkrmepxbeobvntmbset!--XewmLsydaspnumgqsyokmgqpmcs sysgtmra
Ve.ykls omKh.bepmup supuntmgqpmxrkgmabcr.ebvnpmbkmgrmbsew”

“Bq!mxtmupbe,msgmskmyrgmnsopmQbegaspnuwmTr.mxbopmgqpmvpkgmramsg--v.g
bagpemtr.mqbcpmvppymbmlppombgmQbegaspnu,mtr.mbepmbnnmramtr.musaapepyg
 epbg.epk;mtr.murmyrgmnrromnsopmgqpmkbxpwmYrlmSm byyrgmkbt,mgqbgmSmgqsyo
tr.mbepmbytmramtr.mnrrosydmlpnnmbgmfepkpygw”

“Smbxmkreetmgrmqpbemtr.mkbtmkr,mkse;mv.gmSmbkk.epmtr.,mpj pfgsydmgqrkp
nsggnpmypecr.kmqpbu-b qpkmbyumfbnfsgbgsrykmlqs qmSmbxmypcpempygsepnt
aeppmaerxmbytlqpep,mSmbxmh.sgpmlpnnmxtkpna;mbyumsamgqpm qsnuepymlpep
ebgqpemfbnpmvparepmgqptmlpygmgrmvpu,msgmlbkmryntmvp b.kpmgqptmlpepmb
nsggnpmxrepmgsepumgqbym.k.bn,maerxmgqpsemzr.eyptmbyumgqpmqbffsypkkmra
 rxsydwmSmqrfpmtr.mlsnnmgqsyomvpggpemramgqpsemnrrokmgr-xreerl;maremS
bkk.epmtr.mXewmLsydaspnumgrnumxp,mgqbgmqpmusumyrgmvpnspcpmqpmqbumpcpe
kpygm.kmraambngrdpgqpe,msymk. qmdrrum bkpwmSmge.kg,mbgmnpbkg,mgqbg
tr.murmyrgmgqsyomXewmOysdqgnptmnrrosydmsnn,”mg.eysydmqpemptpkmlsgq
baap gsrybgpmbyjspgtmgrlbeukmqpemq.kvbyuw

“Xsuunsyd,mxtmupbe;mSm byyrgm rxfnsxpygmtr.wmSmgqsyomXewmZrqymOysdqgnpt
cpetmabemaerxmnrrosydmlpnnw”

“Lqbgmskmgqpmxbggpe,mkse?--Usumtr.mkfpbomgrmxp?”m espumXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnpt,mqpbesydmqskmrlymybxpw

“Smbxmkreetmgrmasyu,mxtmnrcp,mgqbgmxtmabgqpemurpkmyrgmgqsyomtr.mnrrosyd
lpnn--v.gmSmqrfpmsgmskmryntmaerxmvpsydmbmnsggnpmabgsd.puwmSm r.numqbcp
lskqpu,mqrlpcpe,mbkmtr.moyrl,mgqbgmtr.mqbumkppymXewmLsydaspnumvparepmtr.
npagmqrxpw”

“XtmupbemSkbvpnnb,”--pj nbsxpumqpmqbkgsnt--“febtmurmyrgm ry peymtr.ekpna
bvr.gmxtmnrrokwmVpmkbgskaspumlsgqmur gresydmbyum ruunsydmtr.ekpnambyu
gqpm qsnuepy,mbyumnpgmxpmnrrombkmSm q.kpw”

“Smusumyrgmgqrer.dqntm.yupekgbyumlqbgmtr.mlpepmgpnnsydmtr.emvergqpe,”
m espumPxxb,m“bvr.gmtr.emaespyumXewmDebqbx'kmsygpyusydmgrmqbcpmbmvbsnsaa
aerxmK rgnbyu,mgrmnrrombagpemqskmyplmpkgbgpwmLqbgmlsnnmsgmbyklpe?mLsnn
yrgmgqpmrnumfepz.us pmvpmgrrmkgeryd?”

Byumkqpmgbnopumsymgqskmlbtmkrmnrydmbyumk.  pkka.nntmgqbg,mlqpymare pumgr
dscpmqpembggpygsrymbdbsymgrmqpemabgqpembyumkskgpe,mkqpmqbumyrgqsyd
lrekpmgrmqpbemgqbymSkbvpnnb'kmosyumsyh.setmbagpemZbypmAbseabj;mbyumZbyp
Abseabj,mgqr.dqmyrmdepbgmabcr.esgpmlsgqmqpemsymdpypebn,mkqpmlbkmbgmgqbg
xrxpygmcpetmqbfftmgrmbkkskgmsymfebsksydw

“Gqbgmklppg,mbxsbvnpmZbypmAbseabj!”mkbsumXekwmZrqymOysdqgnptw--“Sg
skmkrmnrydmksy pmSmqbcpmkppymqpe,mpj pfgmyrlmbyumgqpymarembmxrxpyg
b  supygbnntmsymgrly!mLqbgmqbffsypkkmsgmx.kgmvpmgrmqpemdrrumrnu
debyuxrgqpembyumpj pnnpygmb.yg,mlqpymkqpm rxpkmgrmcsksgmgqpx!mSmbnlbtk
epdepgmpj pkkscpntmrymupbemPxxb'kmb  r.ygmgqbgmkqpm byyrgmvpmxrepmbg
Qsdqv.et;mv.gmyrlmgqpsemub.dqgpemskmxbeespu,mSmk.ffrkpm rnrypnmbyumXekw
 bxfvpnnmlsnnmyrgmvpmbvnpmgrmfbegmlsgqmqpembgmbnnwmKqpmlr.numvpmk. qmb
upnsdqga.nm rxfbysrymaremPxxbw”

XewmLrruqr.kpmbdeppumgrmsgmbnn,mv.gmbuupu,

“R.emnsggnpmaespyumQbeespgmKxsgq,mqrlpcpe,mskmz.kgmk. qmbyrgqpemfepggt
osyumramtr.ydmfpekrywmTr.mlsnnmnsopmQbeespgwmPxxbm r.numyrgmqbcpmb
vpggpem rxfbysrymgqbymQbeespgw”

“Smbxmxrkgmqbfftmgrmqpbemsg--v.gmryntmZbypmAbseabjmrypmoyrlkmgrmvpmkr
cpetmb  rxfnskqpumbyumk.fpesre!--byumpjb gntmPxxb'kmbdpw”

Gqskmgrfs mlbkmusk .kkpumcpetmqbffsnt,mbyumrgqpekmk.  ppupumramksxsnbe
xrxpyg,mbyumfbkkpumblbtmlsgqmksxsnbemqbexryt;mv.gmgqpmpcpysydmusumyrg
 nrkpmlsgqr.gmbmnsggnpmepg.eymrambdsgbgsrywmGqpmde.pnm bxpmbyumk.ffnspu
bmdepbgmupbnmgrmvpmkbsu--x. qmfebskpmbyumxbytm rxxpygk--.yur.vgsyd
up sksrymramsgkmlqrnpkrxpypkkmarempcpetm rykgsg.gsry,mbyumfepggt
kpcpepmFqsnsffs km.frymgqpmxbytmqr.kpkmlqpepmsgmlbkmypcpemxpgmlsgq
grnpebvnt;--v.g,m.yareg.ybgpnt,mbxrydmgqpmabsn.epkmlqs qmgqpmub.dqgpe
qbumgrmsykgby p,mgqpmxrkgmep pyg,mbyumgqpeparepmxrkgmferxsypyg,mlbkmsy
qpemrlym rrombgmKr.gqmPyu,mbmtr.ydmlrxbymqsepumaremgqpmgsxp,mlqrmypcpe
qbumvppymbvnpmgrm.yupekgbyumlqbgmkqpmxpbygmvtmbmvbksymramys pmkxrrgq
de.pn,mgqsy,mv.gmyrgmgrrmgqsywmRagpymbkmkqpmqbumlskqpumarembyumreupepu
sg,mkqpmqbumypcpemvppymbvnpmgrmdpgmbytmgqsydmgrnpebvnpwmQpepmlbkmb
ubydper.kmrfpysydw

“Bq!”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp,mkqbosydmqskmqpbumbyumasjsydmqskmptpkmrymqpe
lsgqmgpyupem ry peyw--Gqpmpzb .nbgsrymsymPxxb'kmpbempjfepkkpu,m“Bq!
gqpepmskmyrmpyumramgqpmkbum rykph.py pkmramtr.emdrsydmgrmKr.gqmPyuwmSg
urpkmyrgmvpbemgbnosydmraw”mByumarembmnsggnpmlqsnpmkqpmqrfpumqpmlr.numyrg
gbnomramsg,mbyumgqbgmbmksnpygme.xsybgsrymxsdqgmk.aas pmgrmepkgrepmqsxmgr
gqpmepnskqmramqskmrlymkxrrgqmde.pnwmBagpembymsygpecbnmramkrxpmxsy.gpk,
qrlpcpe,mqpmvpdbymlsgq,

“Smkqbnnmbnlbtkmvpmcpetmkreetmgqbgmtr.mlpygmgrmgqpmkpbmgqskmb.g.xy,
sykgpbumram rxsydmqpepw”

“V.gmlqtmkqr.numtr.mvpmkreet,mkse?--Smbkk.epmtr.,msgmusumgqpm qsnuepymb
depbgmupbnmramdrruw”

“Byu,mxreprcpe,msamtr.mx.kgmdrmgrmgqpmkpb,msgmqbumvpggpemyrgmqbcpmvppy
grmKr.gqmPyuwmKr.gqmPyumskmbym.yqpbngqtmfnb pwmFpeetmlbkmk.efesipumgr
qpbemtr.mqbumasjpum.frymKr.gqmPyuw”

“Smoyrlmgqpepmskmk. qmbymsupbmlsgqmxbytmfprfnp,mv.gmsyuppumsgmskmh.sgp
bmxskgbop,mksew--Lpmbnnmqbumr.emqpbngqmfpeap gntmlpnnmgqpep,mypcpe
ar.yumgqpmnpbkgmsy rycpyspy pmaerxmgqpmx.u;mbyumXewmLsydaspnumkbtkmsgmsk
pygsepntmbmxskgbopmgrmk.ffrkpmgqpmfnb pm.yqpbngqt;mbyumSmbxmk.epmqpmxbt
vpmupfpyupumry,maremqpmgqrer.dqntm.yupekgbyukmgqpmybg.epmramgqpmbse,mbyu
qskmrlymvergqpembyumabxsntmqbcpmvppymgqpepmepfpbgpuntw”

“Tr.mkqr.numqbcpmdrypmgrm erxpe,mxtmupbe,msamtr.mlpygmbytlqpepw--Fpeet
lbkmbmlppombgm erxpemry p,mbyumqpmqrnukmsgmgrmvpmgqpmvpkgmrambnnmgqp
kpb-vbgqsydmfnb pkwmBmasypmrfpymkpb,mqpmkbtk,mbyumcpetmf.epmbsewmByu,mvt
lqbgmSm.yupekgbyu,mtr.mxsdqgmqbcpmqbumnrudsydkmgqpepmh.sgpmblbtmaerx
gqpmkpb--bmh.begpemrambmxsnpmraa--cpetm rxaregbvnpwmTr.mkqr.numqbcp
 ryk.ngpumFpeetw”

“V.g,mxtmupbemkse,mgqpmusaapepy pmramgqpmzr.eypt;--ryntm ryksupemqrl
depbgmsgmlr.numqbcpmvppyw--Bymq.yuepumxsnpk,mfpeqbfk,msykgpbumramaregtw”

“Bq!mxtmupbe,mbkmFpeetmkbtk,mlqpepmqpbngqmskmbgmkgbop,myrgqsydmpnkp
kqr.numvpm ryksupepu;mbyumsamrypmskmgrmgebcpn,mgqpepmskmyrgmx. qmgr
 q.kpmvpglppymaregtmxsnpkmbyumbymq.yuepuw--Vpggpemyrgmxrcpmbgmbnn,
vpggpemkgbtmsymNryurymbngrdpgqpemgqbymgebcpnmaregtmxsnpkmgrmdpgmsygr
bmlrekpmbsewmGqskmskmz.kgmlqbgmFpeetmkbsuwmSgmkppxpumgrmqsxmbmcpet
snn-z.udpumxpbk.epw”

Pxxb'kmbggpxfgkmgrmkgrfmqpemabgqpemqbumvppymcbsy;mbyumlqpymqp
qbumepb qpumk. qmbmfrsygmbkmgqsk,mkqpm r.numyrgmlryupembgmqpe
vergqpe-sy-nbl'kmvepbosydmr.gw

“XewmFpeet,”mkbsumqp,msymbmcrs pmramcpetmkgerydmuskfnpbk.ep,m“lr.numur
bkmlpnnmgrmoppfmqskmrfsysrymgsnnmsgmskmbkopumarewmLqtmurpkmqpmxbopmsg
bytmv.ksypkkmramqsk,mgrmlryupembgmlqbgmSmur?--bgmxtmgbosydmxtmabxsntmgr
rypmfbegmramgqpm rbkgmrembyrgqpe?--Smxbtmvpmbnnrlpu,mSmqrfp,mgqpm.kpmra
xtmz.udxpygmbkmlpnnmbkmXewmFpeetw--Smlbygmqskmusep gsrykmyrmxrepmgqby
qskmue.dkw”mQpmfb.kpu--byumderlsydm rrnpemsymbmxrxpyg,mbuupu,mlsgqmrynt
kbe bkgs muetypkk,m“SamXewmFpeetm bymgpnnmxpmqrlmgrm rycptmbmlsapmbyu
ascpm qsnuepymbmuskgby pmrambymq.yuepumbyumgqsegtmxsnpkmlsgqmyrmdepbgpe
pjfpykpmremsy rycpyspy pmgqbymbmuskgby pmramaregt,mSmkqr.numvpmbk
lsnnsydmgrmfepapem erxpemgrmKr.gqmPyumbkmqpm r.numqsxkpnaw”

“Ge.p,mge.p,”m espumXewmOysdqgnpt,mlsgqmxrkgmepbutmsygpefrksgsry--“cpet
ge.pwmGqbg'kmbm ryksupebgsrymsyuppuw--V.gmZrqy,mbkmgrmlqbgmSmlbkmgpnnsyd
tr.mramxtmsupbmramxrcsydmgqpmfbgqmgrmNbydqbx,mramg.eysydmsgmxrepmgrmgqp
esdqgmgqbgmsgmxbtmyrgm .gmgqer.dqmgqpmqrxpmxpburlk,mSm byyrgm ry pscp
bytmusaas .ngtwmSmkqr.numyrgmbggpxfgmsg,msamsgmlpepmgrmvpmgqpmxpbykmra
sy rycpyspy pmgrmgqpmQsdqv.etmfprfnp,mv.gmsamtr.m bnnmgrmxsyumpjb gnt
gqpmfepkpygmnsypmramgqpmfbgqwwwwmGqpmryntmlbtmramfercsydmsg,mqrlpcpe,
lsnnmvpmgrmg.eymgrmr.emxbfkwmSmkqbnnmkppmtr.mbgmgqpmBvvptmgr-xreerl
xreysydmSmqrfp,mbyumgqpymlpmlsnnmnrromgqpxmrcpe,mbyumtr.mkqbnnmdscpmxp
tr.emrfsysryw”

XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmebgqpembdsgbgpumvtmk. qmqbekqmepanp gsrykmrymqsk
aespyumFpeet,mgrmlqrxmqpmqbu,msymab g,mgqr.dqm.y ryk sr.knt,mvppy
bggesv.gsydmxbytmramqskmrlymappnsydkmbyumpjfepkksryk;--v.gmgqpmkrrgqsyd
bggpygsrykmramqskmub.dqgpekmdebu.bnntmepxrcpumgqpmfepkpygmpcsn,mbyu
gqpmsxxpusbgpmbnpegypkkmramrypmvergqpe,mbyumvpggpemep rnnp gsrykmramgqp
rgqpe,mfepcpygpumbytmepyplbnmramsgw



 QBFGPEmJSSS


Gqpepm r.numqbeuntmvpmbmqbffspem epbg.epmsymgqpmlrenumgqbymXekwmZrqy
Oysdqgnpt,msymgqskmkqregmcsksgmgrmQbegaspnu,mdrsydmbvr.gmpcpetmxreysyd
bxrydmqpemrnumb h.bsygby pmlsgqmqpemascpm qsnuepy,mbyumgbnosydmrcpemlqbg
kqpmqbumurypmpcpetmpcpysydmlsgqmqpemabgqpembyumkskgpewmKqpmqbumyrgqsyd
grmlskqmrgqpelskp,mv.gmgqbgmgqpmubtkmusumyrgmfbkkmkrmklsagntwmSgmlbkmb
upnsdqga.nmcsksg;--fpeap g,msymvpsydmx. qmgrrmkqregw

Symdpypebnmgqpsempcpysydkmlpepmnpkkmpydbdpumlsgqmaespyukmgqbymgqpse
xreysydk;mv.gmrypm rxfnpgpmusyypempydbdpxpyg,mbyumr.gmramgqpmqr.kpmgrr,
gqpepmlbkmyrmbcrsusyd,mgqr.dqmbgm qeskgxbkwmXewmLpkgrymlr.numgbopmyr
upysbn;mgqptmx.kgmbnnmusypmbgmEbyubnnkmrypmubt;--pcpymXewmLrruqr.kpmlbk
fpek.bupumgrmgqsyomsgmbmfrkksvnpmgqsydmsymfepapepy pmgrmbmuscsksrymra
gqpmfbegtw

Qrlmgqptmlpepmbnnmgrmvpm rycptpu,mqpmlr.numqbcpmxbupmbmusaas .ngtmsamqp
 r.nu,mv.gmbkmqskmkrymbyumub.dqgpe'km beesbdpmbyumqrekpkmlpepmb g.bnnt
bgmQbegaspnu,mqpmlbkmyrgmbvnpmgrmxbopmxrepmgqbymbmksxfnpmh.pkgsrymry
gqbgmqpbu;msgmqbeuntmbxr.ygpumgrmbmur.vg;myremusumsgmr  .ftmPxxbmnryd
grm rycsy pmqsxmgqbgmgqptmxsdqgmsymrypmramgqpm beesbdpkmasyumerrxmare
Qbeespgmbnkrw

Qbeespg,mXewmPngry,mbyumXewmOysdqgnpt,mgqpsemrlympkfp sbnmkpg,mlpepmgqp
ryntmfpekrykmsycsgpumgrmxppgmgqpx;--gqpmqr.ekmlpepmgrmvpmpbent,mbk
lpnnmbkmgqpmy.xvpekmapl;mXewmLrruqr.kp'kmqbvsgkmbyumsy nsybgsrymvpsyd
 ryk.ngpumsympcpetmgqsydw

Gqpmpcpysydmvparepmgqskmdepbgmpcpygm(aremsgmlbkmbmcpetmdepbgmpcpygmgqbg
XewmLrruqr.kpmkqr.numusypmr.g,mrymgqpm24gqmramUp pxvpe)mqbumvppymkfpyg
vtmQbeespgmbgmQbegaspnu,mbyumkqpmqbumdrypmqrxpmkrmx. qmsyuskfrkpumlsgq
bm rnu,mgqbg,mv.gmaremqpemrlympbeypkgmlskqmramvpsydmy.ekpumvtmXekw
Druubeu,mPxxbm r.numyrgmqbcpmbnnrlpumqpemgrmnpbcpmgqpmqr.kpwmPxxbm bnnpu
rymqpemgqpmypjgmubt,mbyumar.yumqpemurrxmbnepbutmksdypumlsgqmepdbeumgr
EbyubnnkwmKqpmlbkmcpetmapcpeskqmbyumqbumbmvbumkrepmgqerbg:mXekwmDruubeu
lbkma.nnmram bepmbyumbaap gsry,mXewmFpeetmlbkmgbnopumra,mbyumQbeespg
qpekpnamlbkmgrrmsnnmbyumnrlmgrmepkskgmgqpmb.gqresgtmlqs qmpj n.upumqpe
aerxmgqskmupnsdqga.nmpydbdpxpyg,mgqr.dqmkqpm r.numyrgmkfpbomramqpemnrkk
lsgqr.gmxbytmgpbekw

Pxxbmkbgmlsgqmqpembkmnrydmbkmkqpm r.nu,mgrmbggpyumqpemsymXekwmDruubeu'k
.ybcrsubvnpmbvkpy pk,mbyumebskpmqpemkfsesgkmvtmepfepkpygsydmqrlmx. qmXew
Pngry'kmlr.numvpmupfepkkpumlqpymqpmoyplmqpemkgbgp;mbyumnpagmqpembgmnbkg
grnpebvntm rxaregbvnp,msymgqpmklppgmupfpyupy pmramqskmqbcsydmbmxrkg
 rxaregnpkkmcsksg,mbyumramgqpsembnnmxskksydmqpemcpetmx. qwmKqpmqbumyrg
bucby pumxbytmtbeukmaerxmXekwmDruubeu'kmurre,mlqpymkqpmlbkmxpgmvtmXew
Pngrymqsxkpna,mpcsupygntm rxsydmgrlbeukmsg,mbyumbkmgqptmlbnopumrymknrlnt
grdpgqpemsym rycpekbgsrymbvr.gmgqpmsycbnsu--ramlqrxmqp,mrymgqpme.xr.e
ram ryksupebvnpmsnnypkk,mqbumvppymdrsydmgrmsyh.sep,mgqbgmqpmxsdqg
 beetmkrxpmepfregmramqpemgrmQbegaspnu--gqptmlpepmrcpegbopymvtmXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnptmepg.eysydmaerxmgqpmubsntmcsksgmgrmUrylpnn,mlsgqmqskmglrmpnupkg
vrtk,mlqrkpmqpbngqt,mdnrlsydmab pkmkqplpumbnnmgqpmvpypasgmrambm r.yget
e.y,mbyumkppxpumgrmpyk.epmbmh.s omupkfbg qmramgqpmerbkgmx.ggrymbyumes p
f.uusydmgqptmlpepmqbkgpysydmqrxpmarewmGqptmzrsypum rxfbytmbyu
fer ppupumgrdpgqpewmPxxbmlbkmz.kgmupk esvsydmgqpmybg.epmramqpemaespyu'k
 rxfnbsyg;--“bmgqerbgmcpetmx. qmsyanbxpu,mlsgqmbmdepbgmupbnmramqpbg
bvr.gmqpe,mbmh.s o,mnrlmf.nkp,m& wmbyumkqpmlbkmkreetmgrmasyumaerxmXekw
DruubeumgqbgmQbeespgmlbkmnsbvnpmgrmcpetmvbumkrep-gqerbgk,mbyumqbumragpy
bnbexpumqpemlsgqmgqpxw”mXewmPngrymnrropumbnnmbnbexmrymgqpmr  bksry,mbk
qpmpj nbsxpu,

“Bmkrep-gqerbg!--Smqrfpmyrgmsyap gsr.kwmSmqrfpmyrgmrambmf.gesu
syap gsr.kmkregwmQbkmFpeetmkppymqpe?mSyuppumtr.mkqr.numgbopm bepmra
tr.ekpnambkmlpnnmbkmramtr.emaespyuwmNpgmxpmpygepbgmtr.mgrme.ymyrmeskokw
LqtmurpkmyrgmFpeetmkppmqpe?”

Pxxb,mlqrmlbkmyrgmepbnntmbgmbnnmaesdqgpypumqpekpna,mgebyh.snnskpumgqsk
pj pkkmrambffepqpyksrymvtmbkk.eby pkmramXekwmDruubeu'kmpjfpespy pmbyu
 bep;mv.gmbkmgqpepmx.kgmkgsnnmepxbsymbmupdeppmram.ypbksypkkmlqs qmkqp
 r.numyrgmlskqmgrmepbkrymblbt,mlqs qmkqpmlr.numebgqpemappumbyumbkkskg
gqbymyrg,mkqpmbuupumkrrymbagpelbeuk--bkmsamh.sgpmbyrgqpemk.vzp g,

“Sgmskmkrm rnu,mkrmcpetm rnu--byumnrrokmbyumappnkmkrmcpetmx. qmnsop
kyrl,mgqbgmsamsgmlpepmgrmbytmrgqpemfnb pmremlsgqmbytmrgqpemfbegt,mS
kqr.numepbnntmgetmyrgmgrmdrmr.gmgr-ubt--byumuskk.bupmxtmabgqpemaerx
cpyg.esyd;mv.gmbkmqpmqbkmxbupm.fmqskmxsyu,mbyumurpkmyrgmkppxmgrmappnmgqp
 rnumqsxkpna,mSmurmyrgmnsopmgrmsygpeapep,mbkmSmoyrlmsgmlr.numvpmkrmdepbg
bmuskbffrsygxpygmgrmXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrywmV.g,m.frymxtmlreu,mXewmPngry,
symtr.em bkp,mSmkqr.num pegbsyntmpj .kpmxtkpnawmTr.mbffpbemgrmxpmb
nsggnpmqrbekpmbnepbut,mbyumlqpymtr.m ryksupemlqbgmupxbyumramcrs pmbyu
lqbgmabgsd.pkmgr-xreerlmlsnnmvesyd,mSmgqsyomsgmlr.numvpmyrmxrepmgqby
 rxxrymfe.upy pmgrmkgbtmbgmqrxpmbyumgbopm bepmramtr.ekpnamgr-ysdqgw”

XewmPngrymnrropumbkmsamqpmusumyrgmcpetmlpnnmoyrlmlqbgmbyklpemgrmxbop;
lqs qmlbkmpjb gntmgqpm bkp;maremgqr.dqmcpetmx. qmdebgsaspumvtmgqpmosyu
 bepmramk. qmbmabsemnbut,mbyumyrgmnsosydmgrmepkskgmbytmbucs pmramqpe'k,
qpmqbumyrgmepbnntmgqpmnpbkgmsy nsybgsrymgrmdscpm.fmgqpmcsksg;--v.gmPxxb,
grrmpbdpembyumv.ktmsymqpemrlymfepcsr.km ry pfgsrykmbyumcsplkmgrmqpbemqsx
sxfbegsbnnt,mremkppmqsxmlsgqm npbemcsksry,mlbkmcpetmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgq
qskmx.ggpesydmb oyrlnpudxpygmramsgkmvpsydm“cpetm rnu,m pegbsyntmcpet
 rnu,”mbyumlbnopumry,mepzrs sydmsymqbcsydmpjges bgpumqsxmaerxmEbyubnnk,
byumkp .epumqsxmgqpmfrlpemramkpyusydmgrmsyh.sepmbagpemQbeespgmpcpetmqr.e
ramgqpmpcpysydw

“Tr.murmh.sgpmesdqg,”mkbsumkqp;--“lpmlsnnmxbopmtr.embfrnrdspkmgrmXewmbyu
XekwmLpkgryw”

V.gmqbeuntmqbumkqpmkrmkfropy,mlqpymkqpmar.yumqpemvergqpemlbkm scsnnt
raapesydmbmkpbgmsymqskm beesbdp,msamgqpmlpbgqpemlpepmXewmPngry'kmrynt
rvzp gsry,mbyumXewmPngrymb g.bnntmb  pfgsydmgqpmraapemlsgqmx. qmferxfg
kbgskab gsrywmSgmlbkmbmurypmgqsyd;mXewmPngrymlbkmgrmdr,mbyumypcpemqbu
qskmverbumqbyukrxpmab pmpjfepkkpumxrepmfnpbk.epmgqbymbgmgqskmxrxpyg;
ypcpemqbumqskmkxsnpmvppymkgerydpe,myremqskmptpkmxrepmpj.ngsydmgqbymlqpy
qpmypjgmnrropumbgmqpew

“Lpnn,”mkbsumkqpmgrmqpekpna,m“gqskmskmxrkgmkgebydp!--BagpemSmqbumdrg
qsxmraamkrmlpnn,mgrm q.kpmgrmdrmsygrm rxfbyt,mbyumnpbcpmQbeespgmsnn
vpqsyu!--Xrkgmkgebydpmsyuppu!--V.gmgqpepmsk,mSmvpnspcp,msymxbytmxpy,
pkfp sbnntmksydnpmxpy,mk. qmbymsy nsybgsry--k. qmbmfbkksrymaremusysyd
r.g--bmusyypempydbdpxpygmskmkrmqsdqmsymgqpm nbkkmramgqpsemfnpbk.epk,
gqpsempxfnrtxpygk,mgqpsemusdysgspk,mbnxrkgmgqpsemu.gspk,mgqbgmbyt
gqsydmdscpkmlbtmgrmsg--byumgqskmx.kgmvpmgqpm bkpmlsgqmXewmPngry;mbmxrkg
cbn.bvnp,mbxsbvnp,mfnpbksydmtr.ydmxbym.yur.vgpunt,mbyumcpetmx. qmsymnrcp
lsgqmQbeespg;mv.gmkgsnn,mqpm byyrgmepa.kpmbymsycsgbgsry,mqpmx.kgmusyp
r.gmlqpepcpemqpmskmbkopuwmLqbgmbmkgebydpmgqsydmnrcpmsk!mqpm bymkppmepbut
lsgmsymQbeespg,mv.gmlsnnmyrgmusypmbnrypmaremqpew”

KrrymbagpelbeukmXewmPngrymh.sggpumgqpx,mbyumkqpm r.numyrgmv.gmurmqsx
gqpmz.kgs pmramappnsydmgqbgmgqpepmlbkmbmdepbgmupbnmramkpygsxpygmsymqsk
xbyypemramybxsydmQbeespgmbgmfbegsyd;msymgqpmgrypmramqskmcrs pmlqsnp
bkk.esydmqpemgqbgmqpmkqr.num bnnmbgmXekwmDruubeu'kmaremyplkmramqpemabse
aespyu,mgqpmnbkgmgqsydmvparepmqpmfepfbepumaremgqpmqbffsypkkmramxppgsyd
qpembdbsy,mlqpymqpmqrfpumgrmvpmbvnpmgrmdscpmbmvpggpemepfreg;mbyu
qpmksdqpumbyumkxsnpumqsxkpnamraamsymbmlbtmgqbgmnpagmgqpmvbnby pmra
bffervbgsrymx. qmsymqskmabcr.ew

Bagpembmaplmxsy.gpkmrampygsepmksnpy pmvpglppymgqpx,mZrqymOysdqgnptmvpdby
lsgq--

“SmypcpemsymxtmnsapmkblmbmxbymxrepmsygpygmrymvpsydmbdeppbvnpmgqbymXew
PngrywmSgmskmurlyesdqgmnbvr.emgrmqsxmlqpepmnbuspkmbepm ry peypuwmLsgq
xpymqpm bymvpmebgsrybnmbyum.ybaap gpu,mv.gmlqpymqpmqbkmnbuspkmgrmfnpbkp,
pcpetmapbg.epmlreokw”

“XewmPngry'kmxbyypekmbepmyrgmfpeap g,”mepfnspumPxxb;m“v.gmlqpepmgqpepmsk
bmlskqmgrmfnpbkp,mrypmr.dqgmgrmrcpenrro,mbyumrypmurpkmrcpenrrombmdepbg
upbnwmLqpepmbmxbymurpkmqskmvpkgmlsgqmryntmxrupebgpmfrlpek,mqpmlsnn
qbcpmgqpmbucbygbdpmrcpemypdnsdpygmk.fpesresgtwmGqpepmskmk. qmfpeap g
drru-gpxfpembyumdrru-lsnnmsymXewmPngrymbkmrypm byyrgmv.gmcbn.pw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmfepkpygnt,mlsgqmkrxpmkntypkk,m“qpmkppxk
grmqbcpmbmdepbgmupbnmramdrru-lsnnmgrlbeukmtr.w”

“Xp!”mkqpmepfnspumlsgqmbmkxsnpmrambkgryskqxpyg,m“bepmtr.msxbdsysydmxpmgr
vpmXewmPngry'kmrvzp g?”

“K. qmbymsxbdsybgsrymqbkm erkkpumxp,mSmrly,mPxxb;mbyumsamsgmypcpe
r  .eepumgrmtr.mvparep,mtr.mxbtmbkmlpnnmgbopmsgmsygrm ryksupebgsrymyrlw”

“XewmPngrymsymnrcpmlsgqmxp!--Lqbgmbymsupb!”

“Smurmyrgmkbtmsgmskmkr;mv.gmtr.mlsnnmurmlpnnmgrm ryksupemlqpgqpemsg
skmkrmremyrg,mbyumgrmepd.nbgpmtr.emvpqbcsr.emb  reusydntwmSmgqsyomtr.e
xbyypekmgrmqsxmpy r.ebdsydwmSmkfpbombkmbmaespyu,mPxxbwmTr.mqbumvpggpe
nrrombvr.gmtr.,mbyumbk pegbsymlqbgmtr.mur,mbyumlqbgmtr.mxpbymgrmurw”

“Smgqbyomtr.;mv.gmSmbkk.epmtr.mtr.mbepmh.sgpmxskgbopywmXewmPngrymbyu
Smbepmcpetmdrrumaespyuk,mbyumyrgqsydmxrep;”mbyumkqpmlbnopumry,mbx.ksyd
qpekpnamsymgqpm ryksupebgsrymramgqpmvn.yupekmlqs qmragpymbeskpmaerxmb
fbegsbnmoyrlnpudpmram se .xkgby pk,mramgqpmxskgbopkmlqs qmfprfnpmramqsdq
fepgpyksrykmgrmz.udxpygmbepmarempcpemabnnsydmsygr;mbyumyrgmcpetmlpnn
fnpbkpumlsgqmqpemvergqpemaremsxbdsysydmqpemvnsyumbyumsdyrebyg,mbyumsy
lbygmram r.ykpnwmQpmkbsumyrmxrepw

XewmLrruqr.kpmqbumkrm rxfnpgpntmxbupm.fmqskmxsyumgrmgqpmcsksg,mgqbgmsy
kfsgpmramgqpmsy epbksydm rnuypkk,mqpmkppxpumgrmqbcpmyrmsupbmramkqesyosyd
aerxmsg,mbyumkpgmarelbeumbgmnbkgmxrkgmf.y g.bnntmlsgqmqskmpnupkg
ub.dqgpemsymqskmrlym beesbdp,mlsgqmnpkkmbffbepygm ryk sr.kypkkmramgqp
lpbgqpemgqbympsgqpemramgqpmrgqpek;mgrrma.nnmramgqpmlryupemramqskmrly
drsyd,mbyumgqpmfnpbk.epmsgmlbkmgrmbaareumbgmEbyubnnkmgrmkppmgqbgmsgmlbk
 rnu,mbyumgrrmlpnnmlebfgm.fmgrmappnmsgwmGqpm rnu,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmkpcpep;
byumvtmgqpmgsxpmgqpmkp ryum beesbdpmlbkmsymxrgsry,mbmaplmanbopkmramkyrl
lpepmasyusydmgqpsemlbtmurly,mbyumgqpmkotmqbumgqpmbffpbeby pmramvpsydmkr
rcpe qbedpumbkmgrmlbygmryntmbmxsnupembsemgrmferu. pmbmcpetmlqsgpmlrenu
symbmcpetmkqregmgsxpw

Pxxbmkrrymkblmgqbgmqpem rxfbysrymlbkmyrgmsymgqpmqbffspkgmq.xr.ewmGqp
fepfbesydmbyumgqpmdrsydmbverbumsymk. qmlpbgqpe,mlsgqmgqpmkb esas pmra
qskm qsnuepymbagpemusyype,mlpepmpcsnk,mlpepmuskbdeppbvnpkmbgmnpbkg,
lqs qmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmusumyrgmvtmbytmxpbykmnsop;mqpmbygs sfbgpu
yrgqsydmsymgqpmcsksgmgqbgm r.numvpmbgmbnnmlregqmgqpmf.e qbkp;mbyumgqp
lqrnpmramgqpsemuescpmgrmgqpmcs bebdpmlbkmkfpygmvtmqsxmsympjfepkksydmqsk
usk rygpygw

“Bmxby,”mkbsumqp,m“x.kgmqbcpmbmcpetmdrrumrfsysrymramqsxkpnamlqpymqpmbkok
fprfnpmgrmnpbcpmgqpsemrlymasepksup,mbyumpy r.ygpemk. qmbmubtmbk
gqsk,maremgqpmkbopmram rxsydmgrmkppmqsxwmQpmx.kgmgqsyomqsxkpnambmxrkg
bdeppbvnpmapnnrl;mSm r.numyrgmurmk. qmbmgqsydwmSgmskmgqpmdepbgpkg
bvk.eusgt--B g.bnntmkyrlsydmbgmgqskmxrxpyg!--Gqpmarnntmramyrgmbnnrlsyd
fprfnpmgrmvpm rxaregbvnpmbgmqrxp--byumgqpmarnntmramfprfnp'kmyrgmkgbtsyd
 rxaregbvntmbgmqrxpmlqpymgqptm by!mSamlpmlpepmrvnsdpumgrmdrmr.gmk. q
bympcpysydmbkmgqsk,mvtmbytm bnnmramu.gtmremv.ksypkk,mlqbgmbmqbeukqsfmlp
kqr.numuppxmsg;--byumqpepmbepmlp,mfervbvntmlsgqmebgqpemgqsyypem nrgqsyd
gqbym.k.bn,mkpggsydmarelbeumcrn.ygbesnt,mlsgqr.gmpj .kp,msymupasby pmra
gqpmcrs pmramybg.ep,mlqs qmgpnnkmxby,msympcpetmgqsydmdscpymgrmqskmcspl
remqskmappnsydk,mgrmkgbtmbgmqrxpmqsxkpna,mbyumoppfmbnnm.yupemkqpngpe
gqbgmqpm by;--qpepmbepmlpmkpggsydmarelbeumgrmkfpyumascpmu.nnmqr.ekmsy
byrgqpemxby'kmqr.kp,mlsgqmyrgqsydmgrmkbtmremgrmqpbemgqbgmlbkmyrgmkbsu
byumqpbeumtpkgpeubt,mbyumxbtmyrgmvpmkbsumbyumqpbeumbdbsymgr-xreerlw
Drsydmsymuskxbnmlpbgqpe,mgrmepg.eymfervbvntmsymlrekp;--ar.emqrekpkmbyu
ar.emkpecbygkmgbopymr.gmaremyrgqsydmv.gmgrm rycptmascpmsunp,mkqscpesyd
 epbg.epkmsygrm rnupemerrxkmbyumlrekpm rxfbytmgqbymgqptmxsdqgmqbcpmqbu
bgmqrxpw”

Pxxbmusumyrgmasyumqpekpnamph.bnmgrmdscpmgqpmfnpbkpumbkkpyg,mlqs qmyr
ur.vgmqpmlbkmsymgqpmqbvsgmramep pscsyd,mgrmpx.nbgpmgqpm“Cpetmge.p,
xtmnrcp,”mlqs qmx.kgmqbcpmvppym.k.bnntmbuxsyskgpepumvtmqskmgebcpnnsyd
 rxfbysry;mv.gmkqpmqbumepkrn.gsrympyr.dqmgrmepaebsymaerxmxbosyd
bytmbyklpembgmbnnwmKqpm r.numyrgmvpm rxfntsyd,mkqpmuepbupumvpsyd
h.beepnkrxp;mqpemqperskxmepb qpumryntmgrmksnpy pwmKqpmbnnrlpumqsxmgr
gbno,mbyumbeebydpumgqpmdnbkkpk,mbyumlebffpumqpekpnam.f,mlsgqr.gmrfpysyd
qpemnsfkw

Gqptmbeescpu,mgqpm beesbdpmg.eypu,mgqpmkgpfmlbkmnpgmurly,mbyumXewmPngry,
kfe. p,mvnb o,mbyumkxsnsyd,mlbkmlsgqmgqpxmsykgbygntwmPxxbmgqr.dqgmlsgq
fnpbk.epmramkrxpm qbydpmramk.vzp gwmXewmPngrymlbkmbnnmrvnsdbgsrymbyu
 qppea.nypkk;mqpmlbkmkrmcpetm qppea.nmsymqskm scsnsgspkmsyuppu,mgqbgmkqp
vpdbymgrmgqsyomqpmx.kgmqbcpmep pscpumbmusaapepygmb  r.ygmramQbeespgmaerx
lqbgmqbumepb qpumqpewmKqpmqbumkpygmlqsnpmuepkksyd,mbyumgqpmbyklpemqbu
vppy,m“X. qmgqpmkbxp--yrgmvpggpew”

“_Xt_mepfregmaerxmXekwmDruubeu'k,”mkbsumkqpmfepkpygnt,m“lbkmyrgmkr
fnpbkbygmbkmSmqbumqrfpu--'Yrgmvpggpe'mlbkm_xt_mbyklpew”

Qskmab pmnpydgqpypumsxxpusbgpnt;mbyumqskmcrs pmlbkmgqpmcrs pmra
kpygsxpygmbkmqpmbyklpepuw

“Rq!myr--Smbxmdespcpumgrmasyu--Smlbkmrymgqpmfrsygmramgpnnsydmtr.mgqbg
lqpymSm bnnpumbgmXekwmDruubeu'kmurre,mlqs qmSmusumgqpmcpetmnbkgmgqsyd
vparepmSmepg.eypumgrmuepkk,mSmlbkmgrnumgqbgmXskkmKxsgqmlbkmyrgmvpggpe,
vtmyrmxpbykmvpggpe,mebgqpemlrekpwmCpetmx. qmdespcpumbyum ry peypu--S
qbumanbggpepumxtkpnamgqbgmkqpmx.kgmvpmvpggpembagpemk. qmbm reusbnmbkmS
oyplmqbumvppymdscpymqpemsymgqpmxreysydw”

Pxxbmkxsnpumbyumbyklpepu--“Xtmcsksgmlbkmram.kpmgrmgqpmypecr.kmfbegmra
qpem rxfnbsyg,mSmqrfp;mv.gmyrgmpcpymSm bym qbexmblbtmbmkrepmgqerbg;
sgmskmbmxrkgmkpcpepm rnumsyuppuwmXewmFpeetmqbkmvppymlsgqmqpe,mbkmtr.
fervbvntmqpbeuw”

“Tpk--Smsxbdsypu--gqbgmsk--Smusumyrg--”

“Qpmqbkmvppym.kpumgrmqpemsymgqpkpm rxfnbsygk,mbyumSmqrfpmgr-xreerl
xreysydmlsnnmvesydm.kmvrgqmbmxrepm rxaregbvnpmepfregwmV.gmsgmsk
sxfrkksvnpmyrgmgrmappnm.ypbksypkkwmK. qmbmkbumnrkkmgrmr.emfbegtmgr-ubt!”

“Uepbua.n!--Pjb gntmkr,msyuppuw--Kqpmlsnnmvpmxskkpumpcpetmxrxpygw”

Gqskmlbkmcpetmferfpe;mgqpmksdqmlqs qmb  rxfbyspumsgmlbkmepbnnt
pkgsxbvnp;mv.gmsgmkqr.numqbcpmnbkgpumnrydpewmPxxbmlbkmebgqpemsymuskxbt
lqpymryntmqbnambmxsy.gpmbagpelbeukmqpmvpdbymgrmkfpbomramrgqpemgqsydk,
byumsymbmcrs pmramgqpmdepbgpkgmbnb esgtmbyumpyzrtxpygw

“Lqbgmbympj pnnpygmupcs p,”mkbsumqp,m“gqpm.kpmrambmkqppfkosymare
 beesbdpkwmQrlmcpetm rxaregbvnpmgqptmxbopmsg;--sxfrkksvnpmgrmappnm rnu
lsgqmk. qmfep b.gsrykwmGqpm rygescby pkmramxrupeymubtkmsyuppumqbcp
epyupepumbmdpygnpxby'km beesbdpmfpeap gntm rxfnpgpwmRypmskmkrmapy pu
byumd.beupumaerxmgqpmlpbgqpe,mgqbgmyrgmbmvepbgqmrambsem bymasyumsgkmlbt
.yfpexsggpuwmLpbgqpemvp rxpkmbvkrn.gpntmramyrm rykph.py pwmSgmskmbmcpet
 rnumbagpeyrry--v.gmsymgqskm beesbdpmlpmoyrlmyrgqsydmramgqpmxbggpew--Qb!
kyrlkmbmnsggnpmSmkppw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumZrqymOysdqgnpt,m“byumSmgqsyomlpmkqbnnmqbcpmbmdrrumupbnmra
sgw”

“ qeskgxbkmlpbgqpe,”mrvkpecpumXewmPngrywm“H.sgpmkpbkrybvnp;mbyu
pjgepxpntmareg.ybgpmlpmxbtmgqsyomr.ekpncpkmgqbgmsgmusumyrgmvpdsy
tpkgpeubt,mbyumfepcpygmgqskmubt'kmfbegt,mlqs qmsgmxsdqgmcpetmfrkksvnt
qbcpmuryp,maremXewmLrruqr.kpmlr.numqbeuntmqbcpmcpyg.epumqbumgqpepmvppy
x. qmkyrlmrymgqpmder.yu;mv.gmyrlmsgmskmramyrm rykph.py pwmGqskmskmh.sgp
gqpmkpbkrymsyuppumaremaespyuntmxppgsydkwmBgm qeskgxbkmpcpetmvrutmsycsgpk
gqpsemaespyukmbvr.gmgqpx,mbyumfprfnpmgqsyomnsggnpmrampcpymgqpmlrekg
lpbgqpewmSmlbkmkyrlpum.fmbgmbmaespyu'kmqr.kpmry pmarembmlppowmYrgqsyd
 r.numvpmfnpbkbygpewmSmlpygmaremryntmrypmysdqg,mbyum r.numyrgmdpgmblbt
gsnnmgqbgmcpetmubtmkp'yysdqgw”

XewmZrqymOysdqgnptmnrropumbkmsamqpmusumyrgm rxfepqpyumgqpmfnpbk.ep,mv.g
kbsumrynt,m rrnnt,

“Sm byyrgmlskqmgrmvpmkyrlpum.fmbmlppombgmEbyubnnkw”

BgmbyrgqpemgsxpmPxxbmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymbx.kpu,mv.gmkqpmlbkmgrrmx. q
bkgryskqpumyrlmbgmXewmPngry'kmkfsesgkmaremrgqpemappnsydkwmQbeespgmkppxpu
h.sgpmaredrggpymsymgqpmpjfp gbgsrymrambmfnpbkbygmfbegtw

“Lpmbepmk.epmrampj pnnpygmasepk,”m rygsy.pumqp,m“byumpcpetmgqsydmsymgqp
depbgpkgm rxaregwm qbexsydmfprfnp,mXewmbyumXekwmLpkgry;--XekwmLpkgry
syuppumskmx. qmvptryumfebskp,mbyumqpmskmpjb gntmlqbgmrypmcbn.pk,mkr
qrkfsgbvnp,mbyumkrmaryumramkr spgt;--sgmlsnnmvpmbmkxbnnmfbegt,mv.gmlqpep
kxbnnmfbegspkmbepmkpnp g,mgqptmbepmfpeqbfkmgqpmxrkgmbdeppbvnpmrambytw
XewmLpkgry'kmusysyd-errxmurpkmyrgmb  rxxrubgpmxrepmgqbymgpym rxaregbvnt;
byumaremxtmfbeg,mSmlr.numebgqpe,m.yupemk. qm se .xkgby pk,mabnnmkqregmvt
glrmgqbympj ppumvtmglrwmSmgqsyomtr.mlsnnmbdeppmlsgqmxp,m(g.eysydmlsgq
bmkragmbsemgrmPxxb,)mSmgqsyomSmkqbnnm pegbsyntmqbcpmtr.embffervbgsry,
gqr.dqmXewmOysdqgnptmfpeqbfk,maerxmvpsydm.kpumgrmgqpmnbedpmfbegspkmra
Nryury,mxbtmyrgmh.sgpmpygpemsygrmr.emappnsydkw”

“SmoyrlmyrgqsydmramgqpmnbedpmfbegspkmramNryury,mkse--Smypcpemusypmlsgq
bytmvrutw”

“Syuppu!m(symbmgrypmramlryupembyumfsgt,)mSmqbumyrmsupbmgqbgmgqpmnblmqbu
vppymkrmdepbgmbmknbcpetwmLpnn,mkse,mgqpmgsxpmx.kgm rxpmlqpymtr.mlsnn
vpmfbsumarembnnmgqsk,mlqpymtr.mlsnnmqbcpmnsggnpmnbvr.embyumdepbg
pyzrtxpygw”

“Xtmasekgmpyzrtxpyg,”mepfnspumZrqymOysdqgnpt,mbkmgqptmfbkkpumgqer.dqmgqp
klppf-dbgp,m“lsnnmvpmgrmasyumxtkpnamkbapmbgmQbegaspnumbdbsyw”



 QBFGPEmJSC


Krxpm qbydpmram r.ygpyby pmlbkmyp pkkbetmarempb qmdpygnpxbymbkmgqpt
lbnopumsygrmXekwmLpkgry'kmueblsyd-errx;--XewmPngrymx.kgm rxfrkpmqsk
zrtr.kmnrrok,mbyumXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmuskfpekpmqskmsnn-q.xr.ewmXew
Pngrymx.kgmkxsnpmnpkk,mbyumXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmxrep,mgrmasgmgqpxmaremgqp
fnb pw--Pxxbmryntmxsdqgmvpmbkmybg.epmferxfgpu,mbyumkqplmqpekpnamz.kgmbk
qbfftmbkmkqpmlbkwmGrmqpemsgmlbkmepbnmpyzrtxpygmgrmvpmlsgqmgqpmLpkgrykw
XewmLpkgrymlbkmbmdepbgmabcr.esgp,mbyumgqpepmlbkmyrgmbm epbg.epmsymgqp
lrenumgrmlqrxmkqpmkfropmlsgqmk. qm.yepkpecp,mbkmgrmqskmlsap;myrgmbyt
ryp,mgrmlqrxmkqpmepnbgpumlsgqmk. qm rycs gsrymramvpsydmnskgpypumgrmbyu
.yupekgrru,mramvpsydmbnlbtkmsygpepkgsydmbyumbnlbtkmsygpnnsdsvnp,mgqp
nsggnpmbaabsek,mbeebydpxpygk,mfpefnpjsgspk,mbyumfnpbk.epkmramqpemabgqpe
byumqpekpnawmKqpm r.numgpnnmyrgqsydmramQbegaspnu,msymlqs qmXekwmLpkgry
qbumyrgmbmnscpntm ry pey;mbyumqbnambymqr.e'km.ysygpee.fgpum rxx.ys bgsry
rambnnmgqrkpmnsggnpmxbggpekmrymlqs qmgqpmubsntmqbffsypkkmramfescbgpmnsap
upfpyuk,mlbkmrypmramgqpmasekgmdebgsas bgsrykmrampb qw

Gqskmlbkmbmfnpbk.epmlqs qmfpeqbfkmgqpmlqrnpmubt'kmcsksgmxsdqgmyrg
baareu,mlqs qm pegbsyntmusumyrgmvpnrydmgrmgqpmfepkpygmqbna-qr.e;mv.gmgqp
cpetmksdqgmramXekwmLpkgry,mqpemkxsnp,mqpemgr. q,mqpemcrs pmlbkmdebgpa.n
grmPxxb,mbyumkqpmupgpexsypumgrmgqsyombkmnsggnpmbkmfrkksvnpmramXew
Pngry'kmruusgspk,mremrambytmgqsydmpnkpm.yfnpbkbyg,mbyumpyzrtmbnnmgqbg
lbkmpyzrtbvnpmgrmgqpm.gxrkgw

Gqpmxskareg.ypmramQbeespg'km rnumqbumvppymfepggtmlpnnmdrypmgqer.dq
vparepmqpembeescbnwmXewmLrruqr.kpmqbumvppymkbapntmkpbgpumnrydmpyr.dq
grmdscpmgqpmqskgretmramsg,mvpksupkmbnnmgqpmqskgretmramqskmrlymbyu
Skbvpnnb'km rxsyd,mbyumramPxxb'kmvpsydmgrmarnnrl,mbyumqbumsyuppumz.kg
drgmgrmgqpmpyumramqskmkbgskab gsrymgqbgmZbxpkmkqr.num rxpmbyumkppmqsk
ub.dqgpe,mlqpymgqpmrgqpekmbffpbepu,mbyumXekwmLpkgry,mlqrmqbumvppymbnxrkg
lqrnntmpyderkkpumvtmqpembggpygsrykmgrmqsx,mlbkmbvnpmgrmg.eymblbtmbyu
lpn rxpmqpemupbemPxxbw

Pxxb'kmferzp gmramaredpggsydmXewmPngrymarembmlqsnpmxbupmqpemebgqpemkreet
grmasyu,mlqpymgqptmqbumbnnmgbopymgqpsemfnb pk,mgqbgmqpmlbkm nrkpmgrmqpew
Gqpmusaas .ngtmlbkmdepbgmramuescsydmqskmkgebydpmsykpyksvsnsgtmgrlbeuk
Qbeespg,maerxmqpemxsyu,mlqsnpmqpmyrgmryntmkbgmbgmqpempnvrl,mv.g
lbkm rygsy.bnntmrvge.usydmqskmqbfftm r.ygpyby pmrymqpemyrgs p,mbyu
krns sgr.kntmbuuepkksydmqpem.frympcpetmr  bksrywmSykgpbumramaredpggsyd
qsx,mqskmvpqbcsr.emlbkmk. qmgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmbcrsumgqpmsygpeybn
k.ddpkgsrymram“ bymsgmepbnntmvpmbkmxtmvergqpemsxbdsypu?m bymsgmvp
frkksvnpmaremgqskmxbymgrmvpmvpdsyysydmgrmgebykapemqskmbaap gsrykmaerx
Qbeespgmgrmxp?--Bvk.eumbyumsyk.aapebvnp!”--Tpgmqpmlr.numvpmkrmbyjsr.k
aremqpemvpsydmfpeap gntmlbex,mlr.numvpmkrmsygpepkgpumbvr.gmqpemabgqpe,
byumkrmupnsdqgpumlsgqmXekwmLpkgry;mbyumbgmnbkgmlr.numvpdsymbuxsesydmqpe
ueblsydkmlsgqmkrmx. qmipbnmbyumkrmnsggnpmoyrlnpudpmbkmkppxpumgpeesvnt
nsopmbmlr.nu-vpmnrcpe,mbyumxbupmsgmkrxpmpaaregmlsgqmqpemgrmfepkpecpmqpe
drrumxbyypekwmAremqpemrlymkbopmkqpm r.numyrgmvpme.up;mbyumaremQbeespg'k,
symgqpmqrfpmgqbgmbnnmlr.numtpgmg.eymr.gmesdqg,mkqpmlbkmpcpymfrksgscpnt
 scsn;mv.gmsgmlbkmbympaareg;mpkfp sbnntmbkmkrxpgqsydmlbkmdrsydmry
bxrydkgmgqpmrgqpek,msymgqpmxrkgmrcpefrlpesydmfpesrumramXewmPngry'k
yrykpykp,mlqs qmkqpmfbegs .nbentmlskqpumgrmnskgpymgrwmKqpmqpbeumpyr.dq
grmoyrlmgqbgmXewmLpkgrymlbkmdscsydmkrxpmsyarexbgsrymbvr.gmqskmkry;mkqp
qpbeumgqpmlreukm“xtmkry,”mbyum“Aebyo,”mbyum“xtmkry,”mepfpbgpumkpcpebn
gsxpkmrcpe;mbyu,maerxmbmaplmrgqpemqbna-ktnnbvnpkmcpetmx. qmk.kfp gpu
gqbgmqpmlbkmbyyr.y sydmbympbentmcsksgmaerxmqskmkry;mv.gmvparepmkqpm r.nu
h.spgmXewmPngry,mgqpmk.vzp gmlbkmkrm rxfnpgpntmfbkgmgqbgmbytmepcscsyd
h.pkgsrymaerxmqpemlr.numqbcpmvppymblolbeuw

Yrl,msgmkrmqbffpypumgqbgmsymkfsgpmramPxxb'kmepkrn.gsrymramypcpe
xbeetsyd,mgqpepmlbkmkrxpgqsydmsymgqpmybxp,msymgqpmsupbmramXew
Aebyom q.e qsnn,mlqs qmbnlbtkmsygpepkgpumqpewmKqpmqbumaeph.pygnt
gqr.dqg--pkfp sbnntmksy pmqskmabgqpe'kmxbeesbdpmlsgqmXskkmGbtnre--gqbg
samkqpm_lpep_mgrmxbeet,mqpmlbkmgqpmcpetmfpekrymgrmk.sgmqpemsymbdp,
 qbeb gpembyum ryusgsrywmQpmkppxpumvtmgqskm ryypjsrymvpglppymgqp
abxsnspk,mh.sgpmgrmvpnrydmgrmqpewmKqpm r.numyrgmv.gmk.ffrkpmsgmgrmvp
bmxbg qmgqbgmpcpetmvrutmlqrmoyplmgqpxmx.kgmgqsyomrawmGqbgmXewmbyumXekw
Lpkgrymusumgqsyomramsg,mkqpmlbkmcpetmkgerydntmfpek.bupu;mbyumgqr.dq
yrgmxpbysydmgrmvpmsyu. pumvtmqsx,mremvtmbytmvrutmpnkp,mgrmdscpm.fmb
ksg.bgsrymlqs qmkqpmvpnspcpumxrepmepfnpgpmlsgqmdrrumgqbymbytmkqpm r.nu
 qbydpmsgmare,mkqpmqbumbmdepbgm .esrksgtmgrmkppmqsx,mbmup supumsygpygsry
ramasyusydmqsxmfnpbkbyg,mramvpsydmnsopumvtmqsxmgrmbm pegbsymupdepp,mbyu
bmkregmramfnpbk.epmsymgqpmsupbmramgqpsemvpsydm r.fnpumsymgqpsemaespyuk'
sxbdsybgsrykw

Lsgqmk. qmkpykbgsryk,mXewmPngry'km scsnsgspkmlpepmuepbua.nntmsnn-gsxpu;
v.gmkqpmqbumgqpm rxaregmrambffpbesydmcpetmfrnsgp,mlqsnpmappnsydmcpet
 erkk--byumramgqsyosydmgqbgmgqpmepkgmramgqpmcsksgm r.numyrgmfrkksvnt
fbkkmlsgqr.gmvesydsydmarelbeumgqpmkbxpmsyarexbgsrymbdbsy,mremgqp
k.vkgby pmramsg,maerxmgqpmrfpy-qpbegpumXewmLpkgryw--Krmsgmfercpu;--are
lqpymqbffsntmepnpbkpumaerxmXewmPngry,mbyumkpbgpumvtmXewmLpkgry,
bgmusyype,mqpmxbupm.kpmramgqpmcpetmasekgmsygpecbnmsymgqpm bepkmra
qrkfsgbnsgt,mgqpmcpetmasekgmnpsk.epmaerxmgqpmkbuunpmramx.ggry,mgrmkbtmgr
qpe,

“Lpmlbygmryntmglrmxrepmgrmvpmz.kgmgqpmesdqgmy.xvpewmSmkqr.numnsopmgrmkpp
glrmxrepmqpep,--tr.emfepggtmnsggnpmaespyu,mXskkmKxsgq,mbyumxtmkry--byu
gqpymSmkqr.numkbtmlpmlpepmh.sgpm rxfnpgpwmSmvpnspcpmtr.musumyrgmqpbemxp
gpnnsydmgqpmrgqpekmsymgqpmueblsyd-errxmgqbgmlpmbepmpjfp gsydmAebyow
Smqbumbmnpggpemaerxmqsxmgqskmxreysyd,mbyumqpmlsnnmvpmlsgqm.kmlsgqsymb
aregysdqgw”

Pxxbmkfropmlsgqmbmcpetmferfpemupdeppmramfnpbk.ep;mbyuma.nntmbkkpygpumgr
qskmferfrksgsrymramXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmKxsgqmxbosydmgqpsemfbegt
h.sgpm rxfnpgpw

“Qpmqbkmvppymlbygsydmgrm rxpmgrm.k,”m rygsy.pumXewmLpkgry,m“pcpemksy p
Kpfgpxvpe:mpcpetmnpggpemqbkmvppyma.nnmramsg;mv.gmqpm byyrgm rxxbyumqsk
rlymgsxpwmQpmqbkmgqrkpmgrmfnpbkpmlqrmx.kgmvpmfnpbkpu,mbyumlqrm(vpglppy
r.ekpncpk)mbepmkrxpgsxpkmgrmvpmfnpbkpumryntmvtmbmdrrumxbytmkb esas pkw
V.gmyrlmSmqbcpmyrmur.vgmramkppsydmqsxmqpepmbvr.gmgqpmkp ryumlppomsy
Zby.betw”

“Lqbgmbmcpetmdepbgmfnpbk.epmsgmlsnnmvpmgrmtr.!mbyumXekwmLpkgrymskmkr
byjsr.kmgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqsx,mgqbgmkqpmx.kgmvpmbnxrkgmbkmqbfftmbk
tr.ekpnaw”

“Tpk,mkqpmlr.numvp,mv.gmgqbgmkqpmgqsyokmgqpepmlsnnmvpmbyrgqpemf.g-raaw
Kqpmurpkmyrgmupfpyum.frymqskm rxsydmkrmx. qmbkmSmur:mv.gmkqpmurpkmyrg
oyrlmgqpmfbegspkmkrmlpnnmbkmSmurwmGqpm bkp,mtr.mkpp,msk--(v.gmgqskmsk
h.sgpmvpglppymr.ekpncpk:mSmusumyrgmxpygsrymbmktnnbvnpmramsgmsymgqpmrgqpe
errxwmGqpepmbepmkp epgkmsymbnnmabxsnspk,mtr.moyrl)--Gqpm bkpmsk,mgqbgmb
fbegtmramaespyukmbepmsycsgpumgrmfbtmbmcsksgmbgmPyk rxvpmsymZby.bet;mbyu
gqbgmAebyo'km rxsydmupfpyukm.frymgqpsemvpsydmf.gmraawmSamgqptmbepmyrg
f.gmraa,mqpm byyrgmkgsewmV.gmSmoyrlmgqptmlsnn,mvp b.kpmsgmskmbmabxsnt
gqbgmbm pegbsymnbut,mramkrxpm rykph.py p,mbgmPyk rxvp,mqbkmbmfbegs .nbe
usknsopmgr:mbyumgqr.dqmsgmskmgqr.dqgmyp pkkbetmgrmsycsgpmgqpxmry pmsy
glrmremgqeppmtpbek,mgqptmbnlbtkmbepmf.gmraamlqpymsgm rxpkmgrmgqpmfrsygw
Smqbcpmyrgmgqpmkxbnnpkgmur.vgmramgqpmskk.pwmSmbxmbkm ryasupygmramkppsyd
AebyomqpepmvparepmgqpmxsuunpmramZby.bet,mbkmSmbxmramvpsydmqpepmxtkpna:
v.gmtr.emdrrumaespyumgqpepm(yruusydmgrlbeukmgqpm.ffpempyumramgqpmgbvnp)
qbkmkrmaplmcbdbespkmqpekpna,mbyumqbkmvppymkrmnsggnpm.kpumgrmgqpxmbg
Qbegaspnu,mgqbgmkqpm byyrgm bn .nbgpmrymgqpsempaap gk,mbkmSmqbcpmvppy
nrydmsymgqpmfeb gs pmramursydw”

“Smbxmkreetmgqpepmkqr.numvpmbytmgqsydmnsopmur.vgmsymgqpm bkp,”mepfnspu
Pxxb;m“v.gmbxmuskfrkpumgrmksupmlsgqmtr.,mXewmLpkgrywmSamtr.mgqsyomqp
lsnnm rxp,mSmkqbnnmgqsyomkrmgrr;maremtr.moyrlmPyk rxvpw”

“Tpk--Smqbcpmkrxpmesdqgmgrmgqbgmoyrlnpudp;mgqr.dqmSmqbcpmypcpemvppymbg
gqpmfnb pmsymxtmnsapw--Kqpmskmbymruumlrxby!--V.gmSmypcpembnnrlmxtkpna
grmkfpbomsnnmramqpe,mrymAebyo'kmb  r.yg;maremSmurmvpnspcpmqpemgrmvpmcpet
aryumramqsxwmSm.kpumgrmgqsyomkqpmlbkmyrgm bfbvnpmramvpsydmaryumra
bytmvrut,mpj pfgmqpekpna:mv.gmkqpmqbkmbnlbtkmvppymosyumgrmqsxm(symqpe
lbt--bnnrlsydmaremnsggnpmlqsxkmbyum bfes pk,mbyumpjfp gsydmpcpetmgqsyd
grmvpmbkmkqpmnsopk)wmByumsgmskmyrmkxbnnm epusg,msymxtmrfsysry,mgrmqsx,
gqbgmqpmkqr.numpj sgpmk. qmbymbaap gsry;mare,mgqr.dqmSmlr.numyrgmkbt
sgmgrmbytmvrutmpnkp,mkqpmqbkmyrmxrepmqpbegmgqbymbmkgrypmgrmfprfnpmsy
dpypebn;mbyumgqpmupcsnmrambmgpxfpew”

Pxxbmnsopumgqpmk.vzp gmkrmlpnn,mgqbgmkqpmvpdbym.frymsg,mgrmXekwmLpkgry,
cpetmkrrymbagpemgqpsemxrcsydmsygrmgqpmueblsyd-errx:mlskqsydmqpemzrt--tpg
rvkpecsyd,mgqbgmkqpmoyplmgqpmasekgmxppgsydmx.kgmvpmebgqpembnbexsydw--
XekwmLpkgrymbdeppumgrmsg;mv.gmbuupu,mgqbgmkqpmkqr.numvpmcpetmdnbumgrmvp
kp .epmram.yupedrsydmgqpmbyjspgtmrambmasekgmxppgsydmbgmgqpmgsxpmgbnopu
ra:m“aremSm byyrgmupfpyum.frymqskm rxsydwmSm byyrgmvpmkrmkbyd.sypmbk
XewmLpkgrywmSmbxmcpetmx. qmbaebsumgqbgmsgmlsnnmbnnmpyumsymyrgqsydwmXew
Lpkgry,mSmubepmkbt,mqbkmvppymgpnnsydmtr.mpjb gntmqrlmgqpmxbggpemkgbyuk?”

“Tpk--sgmkppxkmgrmupfpyum.frymyrgqsydmv.gmgqpmsnn-q.xr.emramXekw
 q.e qsnn,mlqs qmSmsxbdsypmgrmvpmgqpmxrkgm pegbsymgqsydmsymgqpmlrenuw”

“XtmPxxb!”mepfnspumXekwmLpkgry,mkxsnsyd,m“lqbgmskmgqpm pegbsygt
ram bfes p?”mGqpymg.eysydmgrmSkbvpnnb,mlqrmqbumyrgmvppymbggpyusyd
vparep--“Tr.mx.kgmoyrl,mxtmupbemXekwmOysdqgnpt,mgqbgmlpmbepmvtmyrmxpbyk
krmk.epmramkppsydmXewmAebyom q.e qsnn,msymxtmrfsysry,mbkmqskmabgqpe
gqsyokwmSgmupfpyukmpygsepntm.frymqskmb.yg'kmkfsesgkmbyumfnpbk.ep;msy
kqreg,m.frymqpemgpxfpewmGrmtr.--grmxtmglrmub.dqgpek--Smxbtmcpyg.epmry
gqpmge.gqwmXekwm q.e qsnnme.npkmbgmPyk rxvp,mbyumskmbmcpetmruu-gpxfpepu
lrxby;mbyumqskm rxsydmyrl,mupfpyukm.frymqpemvpsydmlsnnsydmgrmkfbepmqsxw”

“Rq,mXekwm q.e qsnn;mpcpetmvrutmoyrlkmXekwm q.e qsnn,”mepfnspumSkbvpnnb:
“byumSmbxmk.epmSmypcpemgqsyomramgqbgmfrremtr.ydmxbymlsgqr.gmgqpmdepbgpkg
 rxfbkksrywmGrmvpm rykgbygntmnscsydmlsgqmbymsnn-gpxfpepumfpekry,mx.kg
vpmuepbua.nwmSgmskmlqbgmlpmqbffsntmqbcpmypcpemoyrlymbytmgqsydmra;mv.g
sgmx.kgmvpmbmnsapmramxskpetwmLqbgmbmvnpkksyd,mgqbgmkqpmypcpemqbumbyt
 qsnuepy!mFrremnsggnpm epbg.epk,mqrlm.yqbfftmkqpmlr.numqbcpmxbupmgqpx!”

PxxbmlskqpumkqpmqbumvppymbnrypmlsgqmXekwmLpkgrywmKqpmkqr.numgqpymqbcp
qpbeumxrep:mXekwmLpkgrymlr.numkfpbomgrmqpe,mlsgqmbmupdeppmram.yepkpecp
lqs qmkqpmlr.numyrgmqbibeumlsgqmSkbvpnnb;mbyu,mkqpmepbnntmvpnspcpu,
lr.numk be pntmgetmgrm ry pbnmbytmgqsydmepnbgscpmgrmgqpm q.e qsnnk
aerxmqpe,mpj pfgsydmgqrkpmcsplkmrymgqpmtr.ydmxby,mramlqs qmqpemrly
sxbdsybgsrymqbumbnepbutmdscpymqpemk. qmsykgsy gscpmoyrlnpudpwmV.gmbg
fepkpygmgqpepmlbkmyrgqsydmxrepmgrmvpmkbsuwmXewmLrruqr.kpmcpetmkrry
arnnrlpumgqpxmsygrmgqpmueblsyd-errxwmGrmvpmksggsydmnrydmbagpe
usyype,mlbkmbm ryasypxpygmgqbgmqpm r.numyrgmpyu.epwmYpsgqpemlsypmyre
 rycpekbgsrymlbkmbytmgqsydmgrmqsx;mbyumdnbuntmusumqpmxrcpmgrmgqrkpmlsgq
lqrxmqpmlbkmbnlbtkm rxaregbvnpw

LqsnpmqpmgbnopumgrmSkbvpnnb,mqrlpcpe,mPxxbmar.yumbymrffreg.ysgtmra
kbtsyd,

“Byumkrmtr.murmyrgm ryksupemgqskmcsksgmaerxmtr.emkrymbkmvtmbytmxpbyk
 pegbsywmSmbxmkreetmaremsgwmGqpmsygeru. gsrymx.kgmvpm.yfnpbkbyg,
lqpypcpemsgmgbopkmfnb p;mbyumgqpmkrrypemsgm r.numvpmrcpe,mgqpmvpggpew”

“Tpk;mbyumpcpetmupnbtmxbopkmrypmxrepmbffepqpykscpmramrgqpemupnbtkwmPcpy
samgqskmabxsnt,mgqpmVebsgqlbsgpk,mbepmf.gmraa,mSmbxmkgsnnmbaebsumgqbg
krxpmpj .kpmxbtmvpmar.yumaremuskbffrsygsydm.kwmSm byyrgmvpbemgrmsxbdsyp
bytmepn. gby pmrymqskmksup;mv.gmSmbxmk.epmgqpepmskmbmdepbgmlskqmry
gqpm q.e qsnnk'mgrmoppfmqsxmgrmgqpxkpncpkwmGqpepmskmzpbnr.ktwmGqpt
bepmzpbnr.kmpcpymramqskmepdbeumaremqskmabgqpewmSymkqreg,mSm bymappnmyr
upfpyupy pmrymqskm rxsyd,mbyumSmlskqmXewmLpkgrymlpepmnpkkmkbyd.sypw”

“Qpmr.dqgmgrm rxp,”mkbsumPxxbwm“Samqpm r.numkgbtmryntmbm r.fnpmramubtk,
qpmr.dqgmgrm rxp;mbyumrypm bymqbeuntm ry pscpmbmtr.ydmxby'kmyrgmqbcsyd
sgmsymqskmfrlpemgrmurmbkmx. qmbkmgqbgwmBmtr.ydm_lrxby_,msamkqpmabnnmsygr
vbumqbyuk,mxbtmvpmgpbkpu,mbyumopfgmbgmbmuskgby pmaerxmgqrkpmkqpmlbygk
grmvpmlsgq;mv.gmrypm byyrgm rxfepqpyumbmtr.ydm_xby_'kmvpsydm.yupemk. q
epkgebsyg,mbkmyrgmgrmvpmbvnpmgrmkfpyumbmlppomlsgqmqskmabgqpe,msamqp
nsopkmsgw”

“Rypmr.dqgmgrmvpmbgmPyk rxvp,mbyumoyrlmgqpmlbtkmramgqpmabxsnt,mvparep
rypmup supkm.frymlqbgmqpm bymur,”mepfnspumXekwmLpkgrywm“Rypmr.dqgmgr
.kpmgqpmkbxpm b.gsry,mfpeqbfk,msymz.udsydmramgqpm ryu. gmrambytmryp
syuscsu.bnmrambytmrypmabxsnt;mv.gmPyk rxvp,mSmvpnspcp,m pegbsyntmx.kg
yrgmvpmz.udpumvtmdpypebnme.npk:m_kqp_mskmkrmcpetm.yepbkrybvnp;mbyumpcpet
gqsydmdscpkmlbtmgrmqpew”

“V.gmkqpmskmkrmaryumramgqpmypfqpl:mqpmskmkrmcpetmdepbgmbmabcr.esgpwmYrl,
b  reusydmgrmxtmsupbmramXekwm q.e qsnn,msgmlr.numvpmxrkgmybg.ebn,mgqbg
lqsnpmkqpmxbopkmyrmkb esas pmaremgqpm rxaregmramgqpmq.kvbyu,mgrmlqrxmkqp
rlpkmpcpetmgqsyd,mlqsnpmkqpmpjpe skpkmsy pkkbygm bfes pmgrlbeukm_qsx_,
kqpmkqr.numaeph.pygntmvpmdrcpeypumvtmgqpmypfqpl,mgrmlqrxmkqpmrlpk
yrgqsydmbgmbnnw”

“XtmupbepkgmPxxb,murmyrgmfepgpyu,mlsgqmtr.emklppgmgpxfpe,mgrm.yupekgbyu
bmvbumryp,mremgrmnbtmurlyme.npkmaremsg:mtr.mx.kgmnpgmsgmdrmsgkmrlymlbtw
Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqskmqbcsyd,mbgmgsxpk,m ryksupebvnpmsyan.py p;mv.gmsg
xbtmvpmfpeap gntmsxfrkksvnpmaremqsxmgrmoyrlmvparepqbyum_lqpy_msgmlsnn
vpw”

Pxxbmnskgpypu,mbyumgqpym rrnntmkbsu,m“Smkqbnnmyrgmvpmkbgskaspu,m.ynpkk
qpm rxpkw”

“Qpmxbtmqbcpmbmdepbgmupbnmramsyan.py pmrymkrxpmfrsygk,”m rygsy.pumXekw
Lpkgry,m“byumrymrgqpek,mcpetmnsggnp:mbyumbxrydmgqrkp,mrymlqs qmkqpmsk
vptryumqskmepb q,msgmskmv.gmgrrmnsopnt,mxbtmvpmgqskmcpetm se .xkgby pmra
qskm rxsydmblbtmaerxmgqpxmgrmcsksgm.kw”



 QBFGPEmJC


XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmkrrymepbutmaremqskmgpb;mbyumlqpymqpmqbumuebyomqsk
gpbmqpmlbkmh.sgpmepbutmgrmdrmqrxp;mbyumsgmlbkmbkmx. qmbkmqskmgqepp
 rxfbysrykm r.numur,mgrmpygpegbsymblbtmqskmyrgs pmramgqpmnbgpypkkmra
gqpmqr.e,mvparepmgqpmrgqpemdpygnpxpymbffpbepuwmXewmLpkgrymlbkm qbggtmbyu
 rycscsbn,mbyumyrmaespyumgrmpbentmkpfbebgsrykmrambytmkreg;mv.gmbgmnbkg
gqpmueblsyd-errxmfbegtmusumep pscpmbymb.dxpygbgsrywmXewmPngry,msymcpet
drrumkfsesgk,mlbkmrypmramgqpmasekgmgrmlbnomsywmXekwmLpkgrymbyumPxxb
lpepmksggsydmgrdpgqpemrymbmkrabwmQpmzrsypumgqpxmsxxpusbgpnt,mbyu,mlsgq
k be pntmbymsycsgbgsry,mkpbgpumqsxkpnamvpglppymgqpxw

Pxxb,msymdrrumkfsesgkmgrr,maerxmgqpmbx.kpxpygmbaareupumqpemxsyumvt
gqpmpjfp gbgsrymramXewmAebyom q.e qsnn,mlbkmlsnnsydmgrmaredpgmqskmnbgp
sxferfespgspk,mbyumvpmbkmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgqmqsxmbkmvparep,mbyumrymqsk
xbosydmQbeespgmqskmcpetmasekgmk.vzp g,mlbkmepbutmgrmnskgpymlsgqmxrkg
aespyuntmkxsnpkw

Qpmferapkkpumqsxkpnampjgepxpntmbyjsr.kmbvr.gmqpemabsemaespyu--qpemabse,
nrcpnt,mbxsbvnpmaespyuwm“Usumkqpmoyrl?--qbumkqpmqpbeumbytmgqsydmbvr.g
qpe,mksy pmgqpsemvpsydmbgmEbyubnnk?--qpmapngmx. qmbyjspgt--qpmx.kg
 ryapkkmgqbgmgqpmybg.epmramqpem rxfnbsygmbnbexpumqsxm ryksupebvntw”
mByumsymgqskmkgtnpmqpmgbnopumrymaremkrxpmgsxpmcpetmferfpent,myrgmx. q
bggpyusydmgrmbytmbyklpe,mv.gmbngrdpgqpemk.aas spygntmblbopmgrmgqpmgpeere
rambmvbumkrepmgqerbg;mbyumPxxbmlbkmh.sgpmsym qbesgtmlsgqmqsxw

V.gmbgmnbkgmgqpepmkppxpumbmfpecpekpmg.ey;msgmkppxpumbnnmbgmry pmbkmsamqp
lpepmxrepmbaebsumramsgkmvpsydmbmvbumkrepmgqerbgmrymqpemb  r.yg,mgqbymry
Qbeespg'k--xrepmbyjsr.kmgqbgmkqpmkqr.numpk bfpmgqpmsyap gsry,mgqby
gqbgmgqpepmkqr.numvpmyrmsyap gsrymsymgqpm rxfnbsygwmQpmvpdbymlsgqmdepbg
pbeypkgypkkmgrmpygepbgmqpemgrmepaebsymaerxmcsksgsydmgqpmks o- qbxvpe
bdbsy,maremgqpmfepkpyg--grmpygepbgmqpemgrm_ferxskp_m_qsx_myrgmgrmcpyg.ep
sygrmk. qmqbibeumgsnnmqpmqbumkppymXewmFpeetmbyumnpbeygmqskmrfsysry;mbyu
gqr.dqmkqpmgespumgrmnb.dqmsgmraambyumvesydmgqpmk.vzp gmvb omsygrmsgk
ferfpem r.ekp,mgqpepmlbkmyrmf.ggsydmbympyumgrmqskmpjgepxpmkrns sg.up
bvr.gmqpewmKqpmlbkmcpjpuwmSgmusumbffpbe--gqpepmlbkmyrm ry pbnsyd
sg--pjb gntmnsopmgqpmfepgpy pmramvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpe,msykgpbumra
Qbeespg;mbymsy rykgby t,msamepbn,mgqpmxrkgm rygpxfgsvnpmbyumbvrxsybvnp!
byumkqpmqbumusaas .ngtmsymvpqbcsydmlsgqmgpxfpewmQpmg.eypumgrmXekwmLpkgry
grmsxfnrepmqpembkkskgby p,m“Lr.numyrgmkqpmdscpmqsxmqpemk.ffreg?--lr.nu
yrgmkqpmbuumqpemfpek.bksrykmgrmqsk,mgrmsyu. pmXskkmLrruqr.kpmyrgmgrmdr
grmXekwmDruubeu'kmgsnnmsgmlpepm pegbsymgqbgmXskkmKxsgq'kmuskreupemqbu
yrmsyap gsry?mQpm r.numyrgmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqr.gmbmferxskp--lr.numyrgmkqp
dscpmqsxmqpemsyan.py pmsymfer .esydmsg?”

“Krmk e.f.nr.kmaremrgqpek,”mqpm rygsy.pu,m“byumtpgmkrm bepnpkkmare
qpekpna!mKqpmlbygpumxpmgrmy.ekpmxtm rnumvtmkgbtsydmbgmqrxpmgr-ubt,mbyu
tpgmlsnnmyrgmferxskpmgrmbcrsumgqpmubydpemram bg qsydmbym.n pebgpumkrep
gqerbgmqpekpnawmSkmgqskmabse,mXekwmLpkgry?--Z.udpmvpglppym.kwmQbcpmyrgmS
krxpmesdqgmgrm rxfnbsy?mSmbxmk.epmramtr.emosyumk.ffregmbyumbsuw”

PxxbmkblmXekwmLpkgry'kmk.efesip,mbyumapngmgqbgmsgmx.kgmvpmdepbg,mbgmby
buuepkkmlqs q,msymlreukmbyumxbyype,mlbkmbkk.xsydmgrmqsxkpnamgqpmesdqgmra
asekgmsygpepkgmsymqpe;mbyumbkmaremqpekpna,mkqpmlbkmgrrmx. qmfercropumbyu
raapyupumgrmqbcpmgqpmfrlpemramusep gntmkbtsydmbytmgqsydmgrmgqpmf.efrkpw
Kqpm r.numryntmdscpmqsxmbmnrro;mv.gmsgmlbkmk. qmbmnrrombkmkqpmgqr.dqg
x.kgmepkgrepmqsxmgrmqskmkpykpk,mbyumgqpymnpagmgqpmkrab,mepxrcsydmgrmb
kpbgmvtmqpemkskgpe,mbyumdscsydmqpembnnmqpembggpygsryw

KqpmqbumyrgmgsxpmgrmoyrlmqrlmXewmPngrymgrromgqpmepferra,mkrmebfsuntmusu
byrgqpemk.vzp gmk.  ppu;maremXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmyrlm bxpmsygrmgqpmerrx
aerxmpjbxsysydmgqpmlpbgqpe,mbyumrfpypumrymgqpxmbnnmlsgqmgqpmsyarexbgsry
ramgqpmder.yumvpsydm rcpepumlsgqmkyrl,mbyumramsgkmkgsnnmkyrlsyd
abkg,mlsgqmbmkgerydmuesagsydmlsyu;m ry n.usydmlsgqmgqpkpmlreukmgrmXew
Lrruqr.kp:

“Gqskmlsnnmfercpmbmkfsesgpumvpdsyysydmramtr.emlsygpempydbdpxpygk,
ksewmKrxpgqsydmyplmaremtr.em rb qxbymbyumqrekpkmgrmvpmxbosydmgqpsemlbt
gqer.dqmbmkgrexmramkyrlw”

FrremXewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmksnpygmaerxm rykgpeybgsry;mv.gmpcpetmvrutmpnkp
qbumkrxpgqsydmgrmkbt;mpcpetmvrutmlbkmpsgqpemk.efesipumremyrgmk.efesipu,
byumqbumkrxpmh.pkgsrymgrmbko,mremkrxpm rxaregmgrmraapewmXekwmLpkgry
byumPxxbmgespumpbeypkgntmgrm qppemqsxmbyumg.eymqskmbggpygsrymaerxmqsk
kry-sy-nbl,mlqrmlbkmf.ek.sydmqskmges.xfqmebgqpem.yappnsydntw

“Smbuxsepumtr.emepkrn.gsrymcpetmx. q,mkse,”mkbsumqp,m“symcpyg.esydmr.g
symk. qmlpbgqpe,maremram r.ekpmtr.mkblmgqpepmlr.numvpmkyrlmcpetmkrryw
Pcpetmvrutmx.kgmqbcpmkppymgqpmkyrlm rxsydmrywmSmbuxsepumtr.emkfsesg;mbyu
SmubepmkbtmlpmkqbnnmdpgmqrxpmcpetmlpnnwmByrgqpemqr.emremglr'kmkyrlm by
qbeuntmxbopmgqpmerbumsxfbkkbvnp;mbyumlpmbepmglrm beesbdpk;msamrypmsk
vnrlymrcpemsymgqpmvnpbomfbegmramgqpm rxxrymaspnumgqpepmlsnnmvpmgqpmrgqpe
bgmqbyuwmSmubepmkbtmlpmkqbnnmvpmbnnmkbapmbgmQbegaspnumvparepmxsuysdqgw”

XewmLpkgry,mlsgqmges.xfqmrambmusaapepygmkreg,mlbkm ryapkksydmgqbgmqp
qbumoyrlymsgmgrmvpmkyrlsydmkrxpmgsxp,mv.gmqbumyrgmkbsumbmlreu,mnpkg
sgmkqr.numxbopmXewmLrruqr.kpm.y rxaregbvnp,mbyumvpmbympj .kpmaremqsk
q.eetsydmblbtwmBkmgrmgqpepmvpsydmbytmh.bygsgtmramkyrlmabnnpymremnsopnt
grmabnnmgrmsxfpupmgqpsemepg.ey,mgqbgmlbkmbmxpepmzrop;mqpmlbkmbaebsumgqpt
lr.numasyumyrmusaas .ngtwmQpmlskqpumgqpmerbumxsdqgmvpmsxfbkkbvnp,mgqbg
qpmxsdqgmvpmbvnpmgrmoppfmgqpxmbnnmbgmEbyubnnk;mbyumlsgqmgqpm.gxrkg
drru-lsnnmlbkmk.epmgqbgmb  rxxrubgsrymxsdqgmvpmar.yumarempcpetmvrut,
 bnnsydmrymqskmlsapmgrmbdeppmlsgqmqsx,mgqbgmlsgqmbmnsggnpm rygescby p,
pcpetmvrutmxsdqgmvpmnrudpu,mlqs qmkqpmqbeuntmoyplmqrlmgrmur,maerxmgqp
 ryk sr.kypkkmramgqpepmvpsydmv.gmglrmkfbepmerrxkmsymgqpmqr.kpw

“Lqbgmskmgrmvpmuryp,mxtmupbemPxxb?--lqbgmskmgrmvpmuryp?”mlbkmXew
Lrruqr.kp'kmasekgmpj nbxbgsry,mbyumbnnmgqbgmqpm r.numkbtmaremkrxp
gsxpwmGrmqpemqpmnrropumarem rxareg;mbyumqpembkk.eby pkmramkbapgt,mqpe
epfepkpygbgsrymramgqpmpj pnnpy pmramgqpmqrekpk,mbyumramZbxpk,mbyumra
gqpsemqbcsydmkrmxbytmaespyukmbvr.gmgqpx,mepcscpumqsxmbmnsggnpw

Qskmpnupkgmub.dqgpe'kmbnbexmlbkmph.bnmgrmqskmrlywmGqpmqreeremramvpsyd
vnr opum.fmbgmEbyubnnk,mlqsnpmqpem qsnuepymlpepmbgmQbegaspnu,mlbkma.nn
symqpemsxbdsybgsry;mbyumaby tsydmgqpmerbumgrmvpmyrlmz.kgmfbkkbvnpmare
bucpyg.er.kmfprfnp,mv.gmsymbmkgbgpmgqbgmbuxsggpumyrmupnbt,mkqpmlbkmpbdpe
grmqbcpmsgmkpggnpu,mgqbgmqpemabgqpembyumPxxbmkqr.numepxbsymbgmEbyubnnk,
lqsnpmkqpmbyumqpemq.kvbyumkpgmarelbeumsykgbygntmgqer.dqmbnnmgqpmfrkksvnp
b  .x.nbgsrykmramuesagpumkyrlmgqbgmxsdqgmsxfpupmgqpxw

“Tr.mqbumvpggpemreupemgqpm beesbdpmusep gnt,mxtmnrcp,”mkbsumkqp;m“Smubep
kbtmlpmkqbnnmvpmbvnpmgrmdpgmbnryd,msamlpmkpgmraamusep gnt;mbyumsamlp
urm rxpmgrmbytmgqsydmcpetmvbu,mSm bymdpgmr.gmbyumlbnowmSmbxmyrgmbgmbnn
baebsuwmSmkqr.numyrgmxsyumlbnosydmqbnamgqpmlbtwmSm r.num qbydpmxtmkqrpk,
tr.moyrl,mgqpmxrxpygmSmdrgmqrxp;mbyumsgmskmyrgmgqpmkregmramgqsydmgqbg
dscpkmxpm rnuw”

“Syuppu!”mepfnspumqpwm“Gqpy,mxtmupbemSkbvpnnb,msgmskmgqpmxrkg
pjgebreusybetmkregmramgqsydmsymgqpmlrenu,maremsymdpypebnmpcpetmgqsyd
urpkmdscpmtr.m rnuwmLbnomqrxp!--tr.mbepmfepggsntmkqrumaremlbnosydmqrxp,
SmubepmkbtwmSgmlsnnmvpmvbumpyr.dqmaremgqpmqrekpkw”

Skbvpnnbmg.eypumgrmXekwmLpkgrymaremqpembffervbgsrymramgqpmfnbywmXekw
Lpkgrym r.numryntmbffercpwmSkbvpnnbmgqpymlpygmgrmPxxb;mv.gmPxxbm r.nu
yrgmkrmpygsepntmdscpm.fmgqpmqrfpmramgqpsemvpsydmbnnmbvnpmgrmdpgmblbt;
byumgqptmlpepmkgsnnmusk .kksydmgqpmfrsyg,mlqpymXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqrmqbu
npagmgqpmerrxmsxxpusbgpntmbagpemqskmvergqpe'kmasekgmepfregmramgqpmkyrl,
 bxpmvb ombdbsy,mbyumgrnumgqpxmgqbgmqpmqbumvppymr.gmramurrekmgrmpjbxsyp,
byum r.numbyklpemaremgqpepmyrgmvpsydmgqpmkxbnnpkgmusaas .ngtmsymgqpse
dpggsydmqrxp,mlqpypcpemgqptmnsopumsg,mpsgqpemyrlmrembymqr.emqpy pwmQp
qbumdrypmvptryumgqpmklppf--krxpmlbtmbnrydmgqpmQsdqv.etmerbu--gqpmkyrl
lbkmyrlqpepmbvrcpmqbnambymsy qmuppf--symxbytmfnb pkmqbeuntmpyr.dqmgr
lqsgpymgqpmder.yu;mbmcpetmaplmanbopkmlpepmabnnsydmbgmfepkpyg,mv.gmgqp
 nr.ukmlpepmfbegsyd,mbyumgqpepmlbkmpcpetmbffpbeby pmramsgkmvpsydmkrry
rcpewmQpmqbumkppymgqpm rb qxpy,mbyumgqptmvrgqmbdeppumlsgqmqsxmsymgqpep
vpsydmyrgqsydmgrmbffepqpyuw

GrmSkbvpnnb,mgqpmepnspamramk. qmgsusydkmlbkmcpetmdepbg,mbyumgqptmlpep
k be pntmnpkkmb  pfgbvnpmgrmPxxbmrymqpemabgqpe'kmb  r.yg,mlqr
lbkmsxxpusbgpntmkpgmbkmx. qmbgmpbkpmrymgqpmk.vzp gmbkmqskmypecr.k
 rykgsg.gsrymbnnrlpu;mv.gmgqpmbnbexmgqbgmqbumvppymebskpum r.numyrgmvp
bffpbkpumkrmbkmgrmbuxsgmrambytm rxaregmaremqsxmlqsnpmqpm rygsy.pumbg
EbyubnnkwmQpmlbkmkbgskaspumramgqpepmvpsydmyrmfepkpygmubydpemsymepg.eysyd
qrxp,mv.gmyrmbkk.eby pkm r.num rycsy pmqsxmgqbgmsgmlbkmkbapmgrmkgbt;mbyu
lqsnpmgqpmrgqpekmlpepmcbesr.kntm.edsydmbyumep rxxpyusyd,mXewmOysdqgnpt
byumPxxbmkpggnpumsgmsymbmaplmvespamkpygpy pk:mgq.k--

“Tr.emabgqpemlsnnmyrgmvpmpbkt;mlqtmurmyrgmtr.mdr?”

“Smbxmepbut,msamgqpmrgqpekmbepw”

“KqbnnmSmesydmgqpmvpnn?”

“Tpk,murw”

Byumgqpmvpnnmlbkme.yd,mbyumgqpm beesbdpkmkfropymarewmBmaplmxsy.gpkmxrep,
byumPxxbmqrfpumgrmkppmrypmger.vnpkrxpm rxfbysrymupfrksgpumsymqskmrly
qr.kp,mgrmdpgmkrvpembyum rrn,mbyumgqpmrgqpemep rcpemqskmgpxfpembyu
qbffsypkkmlqpymgqskmcsksgmramqbeukqsfmlpepmrcpew

Gqpm beesbdpm bxp:mbyumXewmLrruqr.kp,mbnlbtkmgqpmasekgmrvzp gmrymk. q
r  bksryk,mlbkm bepa.nntmbggpyupumgrmqskmrlymvtmXewmOysdqgnptmbyumXew
Lpkgry;mv.gmyrgmbnnmgqbgmpsgqpem r.numkbtm r.numfepcpygmkrxpmepyplbn
rambnbexmbgmgqpmksdqgmramgqpmkyrlmlqs qmqbumb g.bnntmabnnpy,mbyumgqp
usk rcpetmrambmx. qmubeopemysdqgmgqbymqpmqbumvppymfepfbepumarewm“Qpmlbk
baebsumgqptmkqr.numqbcpmbmcpetmvbumuescpwmQpmlbkmbaebsumfrremSkbvpnnb
lr.numyrgmnsopmsgwmByumgqpepmlr.numvpmfrremPxxbmsymgqpm beesbdpmvpqsyuw
QpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbgmgqptmqbumvpkgmurwmGqptmx.kgmoppfmbkmx. qmgrdpgqpe
bkmgqptm r.nu;”mbyumZbxpkmlbkmgbnopumgr,mbyumdscpymbm qbedpmgrmdrmcpet
knrlmbyumlbsgmaremgqpmrgqpem beesbdpw

Skbvpnnbmkgpfgmsymbagpemqpemabgqpe;mZrqymOysdqgnpt,maredpggsydmgqbgmqp
usumyrgmvpnrydmgrmgqpsemfbegt,mkgpfgmsymbagpemqskmlsapmcpetmybg.ebnnt;
krmgqbgmPxxbmar.yu,mrymvpsydmpk regpumbyumarnnrlpumsygrmgqpmkp ryu
 beesbdpmvtmXewmPngry,mgqbgmgqpmurremlbkmgrmvpmnbla.nntmkq.gmrymgqpx,
byumgqbgmgqptmlpepmgrmqbcpmbmgpgp-b-gpgpmuescpwmSgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppy
gqpmblolbeuypkkmrambmxrxpyg,msgmlr.numqbcpmvppymebgqpembmfnpbk.ep,
fepcsr.kmgrmgqpmk.kfs srykmramgqskmcpetmubt;mkqpm r.numqbcpmgbnopumgr
qsxmramQbeespg,mbyumgqpmgqepp-h.begpekmrambmxsnpmlr.numqbcpmkppxpumv.g
rypwmV.gmyrl,mkqpmlr.numebgqpemsgmqbumyrgmqbffpypuwmKqpmvpnspcpumqpmqbu
vppymuesyosydmgrrmx. qmramXewmLpkgry'kmdrrumlsyp,mbyumapngmk.epmgqbgmqp
lr.numlbygmgrmvpmgbnosydmyrykpykpw

Grmepkgebsymqsxmbkmx. qmbkmxsdqgmvp,mvtmqpemrlymxbyypek,mkqpmlbk
sxxpusbgpntmfepfbesydmgrmkfpbomlsgqmpjh.sksgpm bnxypkkmbyumdebcsgtmra
gqpmlpbgqpembyumgqpmysdqg;mv.gmk be pntmqbumkqpmvpd.y,mk be pntmqbumgqpt
fbkkpumgqpmklppf-dbgpmbyumzrsypumgqpmrgqpem beesbdp,mgqbymkqpmar.yumqpe
k.vzp gm .gm.f--qpemqbyumkpsipu--qpembggpygsrymupxbyupu,mbyumXewmPngry
b g.bnntmxbosydmcsrnpygmnrcpmgrmqpe:mbcbsnsydmqsxkpnamramgqpmfep sr.k
rffreg.ysgt,mup nbesydmkpygsxpygkmlqs qmx.kgmvpmbnepbutmlpnnmoyrly,
qrfsyd--apbesyd--buresyd--epbutmgrmuspmsamkqpmepa.kpumqsx;mv.g
anbggpesydmqsxkpnamgqbgmqskmbeupygmbggb qxpygmbyum.yph.bnnpumnrcpmbyu
.ypjbxfnpumfbkksrym r.numyrgmabsnmramqbcsydmkrxpmpaap g,mbyumsymkqreg,
cpetmx. qmepkrncpumrymvpsydmkpesr.kntmb  pfgpumbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpwmSg
epbnntmlbkmkrwmLsgqr.gmk e.fnp--lsgqr.gmbfrnrdt--lsgqr.gmx. qmbffbepyg
usaasupy p,mXewmPngry,mgqpmnrcpemramQbeespg,mlbkmferapkksydmqsxkpna
_qpe_mnrcpewmKqpmgespumgrmkgrfmqsx;mv.gmcbsynt;mqpmlr.numdrmry,mbyumkbt
sgmbnnwmBydetmbkmkqpmlbk,mgqpmgqr.dqgmramgqpmxrxpygmxbupmqpemepkrncpmgr
epkgebsymqpekpnamlqpymkqpmusumkfpbowmKqpmapngmgqbgmqbnamgqskmarnntmx.kg
vpmue.yopyypkk,mbyumgqpeparepm r.numqrfpmgqbgmsgmxsdqgmvpnrydmryntmgr
gqpmfbkksydmqr.ewmB  reusydnt,mlsgqmbmxsjg.epmramgqpmkpesr.kmbyumgqp
fnbta.n,mlqs qmkqpmqrfpumlr.numvpkgmk.sgmqskmqbnambyumqbnamkgbgp,mkqp
epfnspu,

“Smbxmcpetmx. qmbkgryskqpu,mXewmPngrywmGqskmgrm_xp_!mtr.maredpg
tr.ekpna--tr.mgbopmxpmaremxtmaespyu--bytmxpkkbdpmgrmXskkmKxsgqmSmkqbnn
vpmqbfftmgrmupnscpe;mv.gmyrmxrepmramgqskmgrm_xp_,msamtr.mfnpbkpw”

“XskkmKxsgq!--xpkkbdpmgrmXskkmKxsgq!--Lqbgm r.numkqpmfrkksvnt
xpby!”--Byumqpmepfpbgpumqpemlreukmlsgqmk. qmbkk.eby pmramb  pyg,mk. q
vrbkga.nmfepgpy pmrambxbipxpyg,mgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmepfntsydmlsgq
h.s oypkk,

“XewmPngry,mgqskmskmgqpmxrkgmpjgebreusybetm ryu. g!mbyumSm bymb  r.yg
aremsgmryntmsymrypmlbt;mtr.mbepmyrgmtr.ekpna,mremtr.m r.numyrgmkfpbo
psgqpemgrmxp,mremramQbeespg,msymk. qmbmxbyypewm rxxbyumtr.ekpnampyr.dq
grmkbtmyrmxrep,mbyumSmlsnnmpyupbcr.emgrmaredpgmsgw”

V.gmXewmPngrymqbumryntmue.yomlsypmpyr.dqmgrmpnpcbgpmqskmkfsesgk,myrgmbg
bnnmgrm rya.kpmqskmsygpnnp gkwmQpmfpeap gntmoyplmqskmrlymxpbysyd;mbyu
qbcsydmlbexntmfergpkgpumbdbsykgmqpemk.kfs srymbkmxrkgmsyz.esr.k,mbyu
knsdqgntmgr. qpum.frymqskmepkfp gmaremXskkmKxsgqmbkmqpemaespyu,--v.g
b oyrlnpudsydmqskmlryupemgqbgmXskkmKxsgqmkqr.numvpmxpygsrypumbgmbnn,--qp
epk.xpumgqpmk.vzp gmramqskmrlymfbkksry,mbyumlbkmcpetm.edpygmaremb
abcr.ebvnpmbyklpew

Bkmkqpmgqr.dqgmnpkkmramqskmsypvespgt,mkqpmgqr.dqgmxrepmramqsk
sy rykgby tmbyumfepk.xfgsry;mbyumlsgqmaplpemkge.ddnpkmaremfrnsgpypkk,
epfnspu,

“Sgmskmsxfrkksvnpmaremxpmgrmur.vgmbytmnrydpewmTr.mqbcpmxbupmtr.ekpna
grrm npbewmXewmPngry,mxtmbkgryskqxpygmskmx. qmvptryumbytmgqsydmSm by
pjfepkkwmBagpemk. qmvpqbcsr.e,mbkmSmqbcpmlsgypkkpumu.esydmgqpmnbkg
xrygq,mgrmXskkmKxsgq--k. qmbggpygsrykmbkmSmqbcpmvppymsymgqpmubsnt
qbvsgmramrvkpecsyd--grmvpmbuuepkksydmxpmsymgqskmxbyype--gqskmskmby
.ykgpbusypkkmram qbeb gpe,msyuppu,mlqs qmSmqbumyrgmk.ffrkpumfrkksvnp!
Vpnspcpmxp,mkse,mSmbxmabe,mcpetmabe,maerxmdebgsaspumsymvpsydmgqpmrvzp g
ramk. qmferapkksrykw”

“DrrumQpbcpy!”m espumXewmPngry,m“lqbgm bymvpmgqpmxpbysydmramgqsk?--Xskk
Kxsgq!--Smypcpemgqr.dqgmramXskkmKxsgqmsymgqpmlqrnpm r.ekpmramxt
pjskgpy p--ypcpemfbsumqpembytmbggpygsryk,mv.gmbkmtr.emaespyu:mypcpe
 bepumlqpgqpemkqpmlpepmupbumrembnscp,mv.gmbkmtr.emaespyuwmSamkqp
qbkmaby spumrgqpelskp,mqpemrlymlskqpkmqbcpmxsknpumqpe,mbyumSmbxmcpet
kreet--pjgepxpntmkreet--V.g,mXskkmKxsgq,msyuppu!--Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp!
lqrm bymgqsyomramXskkmKxsgq,mlqpymXskkmLrruqr.kpmskmypbe!mYr,m.frymxt
qryr.e,mgqpepmskmyrm.ykgpbusypkkmram qbeb gpewmSmqbcpmgqr.dqgmryntmra
tr.wmSmfergpkgmbdbsykgmqbcsydmfbsumgqpmkxbnnpkgmbggpygsrymgrmbytmryp
pnkpwmPcpetmgqsydmgqbgmSmqbcpmkbsumremuryp,maremxbytmlppokmfbkg,mqbk
vppymlsgqmgqpmkrnpmcsplmramxbeosydmxtmburebgsrymramtr.ekpnawmTr.
 byyrgmepbnnt,mkpesr.knt,mur.vgmsgwmYr!--(symbymb  pygmxpbygmgrmvp
syksy.bgsyd)--Smbxmk.epmtr.mqbcpmkppymbyum.yupekgrrumxpw”

Sgmlr.numvpmsxfrkksvnpmgrmkbtmlqbgmPxxbmapng,mrymqpbesydmgqsk--lqs q
rambnnmqpem.yfnpbkbygmkpykbgsrykmlbkm.ffpexrkgwmKqpmlbkmgrrm rxfnpgpnt
rcpefrlpepumgrmvpmsxxpusbgpntmbvnpmgrmepfnt:mbyumglrmxrxpygkmramksnpy p
vpsydmbxfnpmpy r.ebdpxpygmaremXewmPngry'kmkbyd.sypmkgbgpmramxsyu,mqp
gespumgrmgbopmqpemqbyumbdbsy,mbkmqpmzrtr.kntmpj nbsxpu--

“ qbexsydmXskkmLrruqr.kp!mbnnrlmxpmgrmsygpefepgmgqskmsygpepkgsyd
ksnpy pwmSgm ryapkkpkmgqbgmtr.mqbcpmnrydm.yupekgrrumxpw”

“Yr,mkse,”m espumPxxb,m“sgm ryapkkpkmyrmk. qmgqsydwmKrmabemaerxmqbcsyd
nrydm.yupekgrrumtr.,mSmqbcpmvppymsymbmxrkgm rxfnpgpmpeeremlsgqmepkfp g
grmtr.emcsplk,mgsnnmgqskmxrxpygwmBkmgrmxtkpna,mSmbxmcpetmkreetmgqbgmtr.
kqr.numqbcpmvppymdscsydmlbtmgrmbytmappnsydk--Yrgqsydm r.numvpmabegqpe
aerxmxtmlskqpk--tr.embggb qxpygmgrmxtmaespyumQbeespg--tr.emf.ek.sgmra
qpe,m(f.ek.sg,msgmbffpbepu,)mdbcpmxpmdepbgmfnpbk.ep,mbyumSmqbcpmvppy
cpetmpbeypkgntmlskqsydmtr.mk.  pkk:mv.gmqbumSmk.ffrkpumgqbgmkqpmlpepmyrg
tr.embggeb gsrymgrmQbegaspnu,mSmkqr.num pegbsyntmqbcpmgqr.dqgmtr.mz.udpu
snnmsymxbosydmtr.emcsksgkmkrmaeph.pygwmBxmSmgrmvpnspcpmgqbgmtr.mqbcp
ypcpemkr.dqgmgrmep rxxpyumtr.ekpnamfbegs .nbentmgrmXskkmKxsgq?--gqbgmtr.
qbcpmypcpemgqr.dqgmkpesr.kntmramqpe?”

“Ypcpe,mxbubx,”m espumqp,mbaaerygpumsymqskmg.ey:m“ypcpe,mSmbkk.epmtr.w
_S_mgqsyomkpesr.kntmramXskkmKxsgq!--XskkmKxsgqmskmbmcpetmdrrumkregmra
dsen;mbyumSmkqr.numvpmqbfftmgrmkppmqpemepkfp gbvntmkpggnpuwmSmlskq
qpempjgepxpntmlpnn:mbyu,myrmur.vg,mgqpepmbepmxpymlqrmxsdqgmyrgmrvzp g
gr--Pcpetmvrutmqbkmgqpsemnpcpn:mv.gmbkmaremxtkpna,mSmbxmyrg,mSmgqsyo,
h.sgpmkrmx. qmbgmbmnrkkwmSmyppumyrgmkrmgrgbnntmupkfbsemrambymph.bn
bnnsby p,mbkmgrmvpmbuuepkksydmxtkpnamgrmXskkmKxsgq!--Yr,mxbubx,mxt
csksgkmgrmQbegaspnumqbcpmvppymaremtr.ekpnamrynt;mbyumgqpmpy r.ebdpxpygmS
ep pscpu--”

“Py r.ebdpxpyg!--Smdscpmtr.mpy r.ebdpxpyg!--Kse,mtr.mqbcpmvppympygsepnt
xskgbopymsymk.ffrksydmsgwmSmqbcpmkppymtr.mryntmbkmgqpmbuxsepemramxt
aespyuwmSymyrmrgqpemnsdqgm r.numtr.mqbcpmvppymxrepmgrmxpmgqbymbm rxxry
b h.bsygby pwmSmbxmpj ppusydntmkreet:mv.gmsgmskmlpnnmgqbgmgqpmxskgbop
pyukmlqpepmsgmurpkwmQbumgqpmkbxpmvpqbcsr.em rygsy.pu,mXskkmKxsgqmxsdqg
qbcpmvppymnpumsygrmbmxsk ry pfgsrymramtr.emcsplk;myrgmvpsydmblbep,
fervbvnt,mbytmxrepmgqbymxtkpna,mramgqpmcpetmdepbgmsyph.bnsgtmlqs qmtr.
bepmkrmkpyksvnpmrawmV.g,mbkmsgmsk,mgqpmuskbffrsygxpygmskmksydnp,mbyu,mS
ge.kg,mlsnnmyrgmvpmnbkgsydwmSmqbcpmyrmgqr.dqgkmramxbgesxrytmbgmfepkpygw”

Qpmlbkmgrrmbydetmgrmkbtmbyrgqpemlreu;mqpemxbyypemgrrmup supumgrmsycsgp
k.ffns bgsry;mbyumsymgqskmkgbgpmramklpnnsydmepkpygxpyg,mbyumx.g.bnnt
uppfmxregsas bgsry,mgqptmqbumgrm rygsy.pmgrdpgqpembmaplmxsy.gpkmnrydpe,
aremgqpmapbekmramXewmLrruqr.kpmqbum ryasypumgqpxmgrmbmarrg-fb pwmSa
gqpepmqbumyrgmvppymkrmx. qmbydpe,mgqpepmlr.numqbcpmvppymupkfpebgp
blolbeuypkk;mv.gmgqpsemkgebsdqgarelbeumpxrgsrykmnpagmyrmerrxmaremgqp
nsggnpmisdibdkmrampxvbeebkkxpygwmLsgqr.gmoyrlsydmlqpymgqpm beesbdp
g.eypumsygrmCs bebdpmNbyp,mremlqpymsgmkgrffpu,mgqptmar.yumgqpxkpncpk,
bnnmbgmry p,mbgmgqpmurremramqskmqr.kp;mbyumqpmlbkmr.gmvparepmbyrgqpe
ktnnbvnpmfbkkpuw--Pxxbmgqpymapngmsgmsyuskfpykbvnpmgrmlskqmqsxmbmdrru
ysdqgwmGqpm rxfnsxpygmlbkmz.kgmepg.eypu,m rnuntmbyumfer.unt;mbyu,m.yupe
syupk esvbvnpmseesgbgsrymramkfsesgk,mkqpmlbkmgqpym rycptpumgrmQbegaspnuw

Gqpepmkqpmlbkmlpn rxpu,mlsgqmgqpm.gxrkgmupnsdqg,mvtmqpemabgqpe,mlqr
qbumvppymgepxvnsydmaremgqpmubydpekmrambmkrnsgbetmuescpmaerxmCs bebdp
Nbyp--g.eysydmbm reypemlqs qmqpm r.numypcpemvpbemgrmgqsyomra--byumsy
kgebydpmqbyuk--bmxpepm rxxrym rb qxby--yrmZbxpk;mbyumgqpepmsgmkppxpumbk
samqpemepg.eymryntmlpepmlbygpumgrmxbopmpcpetmgqsydmdrmlpnn:maremXew
ZrqymOysdqgnpt,mbkqbxpumramqskmsnn-q.xr.e,mlbkmyrlmbnnmosyuypkkmbyu
bggpygsry;mbyumkrmfbegs .nbentmkrns sgr.kmaremgqpm rxaregmramqpe
abgqpe,mbkmgrmkppx--samyrgmh.sgpmepbutmgrmzrsymqsxmsymbmvbksymra
de.pn--fpeap gntmkpyksvnpmramsgkmvpsydmpj ppusydntmlqrnpkrxp;mbyumgqp
ubtmlbkm ry n.usydmsymfpb pmbyum rxaregmgrmbnnmgqpsemnsggnpmfbegt,
pj pfgmqpekpnaw--V.gmqpemxsyumqbumypcpemvppymsymk. qmfpeg.evbgsry;mbyu
sgmyppupumbmcpetmkgerydmpaaregmgrmbffpbembggpygscpmbyum qppea.nmgsnnmgqp
.k.bnmqr.emramkpfbebgsydmbnnrlpumqpemgqpmepnspamramh.spgmepanp gsryw



 QBFGPEmJCS


Gqpmqbsemlbkm .enpu,mbyumgqpmxbsumkpygmblbt,mbyumPxxbmkbgmurlymgrmgqsyo
byumvpmxskpebvnpw--Sgmlbkmbmlepg qpumv.ksypkkmsyuppu!--K. qmbymrcpegqerl
rampcpetmgqsydmkqpmqbumvppymlskqsydmare!--K. qmbmupcpnrfxpygmrampcpet
gqsydmxrkgm.ylpn rxp!--K. qmbmvnrlmaremQbeespg!--gqbgmlbkmgqpmlrekg
rambnnwmPcpetmfbegmramsgmver.dqgmfbsymbyumq.xsnsbgsry,mramkrxpmkregmre
rgqpe;mv.g,m rxfbepumlsgqmgqpmpcsnmgrmQbeespg,mbnnmlbkmnsdqg;mbyu
kqpmlr.numdnbuntmqbcpmk.vxsggpumgrmappnmtpgmxrepmxskgbopy--xrepmsy
peere--xrepmuskdeb pumvtmxsk-z.udxpyg,mgqbymkqpmb g.bnntmlbk,m r.numgqp
paap gkmramqpemvn.yupekmqbcpmvppym ryasypumgrmqpekpnaw

“SamSmqbumyrgmfpek.bupumQbeespgmsygrmnsosydmgqpmxby,mSm r.numqbcp
vreypmbytmgqsydwmQpmxsdqgmqbcpmur.vnpumqskmfepk.xfgsrymgrmxp--v.gmfrre
Qbeespg!”

Qrlmkqpm r.numqbcpmvppymkrmup pscpu!--Qpmfergpkgpumgqbgmqpmqbumypcpe
gqr.dqgmkpesr.kntmramQbeespg--ypcpe!mKqpmnrropumvb ombkmlpnnmbk
kqpm r.nu;mv.gmsgmlbkmbnnm rya.ksrywmKqpmqbumgbopym.fmgqpmsupb,mkqp
k.ffrkpu,mbyumxbupmpcpetmgqsydmvpyumgrmsgwmQskmxbyypek,mqrlpcpe,mx.kg
qbcpmvppym.yxbeopu,mlbcpesyd,mu.vsr.k,mremkqpm r.numyrgmqbcpmvppymkr
xsknpuw

Gqpmfs g.ep!--Qrlmpbdpemqpmqbumvppymbvr.gmgqpmfs g.ep!--byumgqp
 qbebup!--byumbymq.yuepumrgqpem se .xkgby pk;--qrlm npbentmgqptmqbu
kppxpumgrmfrsygmbgmQbeespgwmGrmvpmk.ep,mgqpm qbebup,mlsgqmsgkm“epbut
lsg”--v.gmgqpymgqpm“kragmptpk”--symab gmsgmk.sgpumypsgqpe;msgmlbk
bmz.xvnpmlsgqr.gmgbkgpmremge.gqwmLqrm r.numqbcpmkppymgqer.dqmk. q
gqs o-qpbupumyrykpykp?

 pegbsyntmkqpmqbumragpy,mpkfp sbnntmramnbgp,mgqr.dqgmqskmxbyypekmgr
qpekpnam.yyp pkkbesntmdbnnbyg;mv.gmsgmqbumfbkkpumbkmqskmlbt,mbkmbmxpep
peeremramz.udxpyg,mramoyrlnpudp,mramgbkgp,mbkmrypmferrambxrydmrgqpek
gqbgmqpmqbumyrgmbnlbtkmnscpumsymgqpmvpkgmkr spgt,mgqbgmlsgqmbnnmgqp
dpygnpypkkmramqskmbuuepkk,mge.pmpnpdby pmlbkmkrxpgsxpkmlbygsyd;mv.g,
gsnnmgqskmcpetmubt,mkqpmqbumypcpe,marembymsykgbyg,mk.kfp gpumsgmgrmxpby
bytmgqsydmv.gmdebgpa.nmepkfp gmgrmqpembkmQbeespg'kmaespyuw

GrmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmlbkmkqpmsyupvgpumaremqpemasekgmsupbmrymgqp
k.vzp g,maremgqpmasekgmkgbegmramsgkmfrkksvsnsgtwmGqpepmlbkmyrmupytsyd
gqbgmgqrkpmvergqpekmqbumfpypgebgsrywmKqpmepxpxvpepumlqbgmXewmOysdqgnpt
qbumry pmkbsumgrmqpembvr.gmXewmPngry,mgqpm b.gsrymqpmqbumdscpy,
gqpm rycs gsrymqpmqbumferapkkpumgqbgmXewmPngrymlr.numypcpemxbeet
syusk eppgnt;mbyumvn.kqpumgrmgqsyomqrlmx. qmge.pembmoyrlnpudpmramqsk
 qbeb gpemqbumvppymgqpepmkqplymgqbymbytmkqpmqbumepb qpumqpekpnawmSg
lbkmuepbua.nntmxregsatsyd;mv.gmXewmPngrymlbkmfercsydmqsxkpna,msymxbyt
epkfp gk,mgqpmcpetmepcpekpmramlqbgmkqpmqbumxpbygmbyumvpnspcpumqsx;
fer.u,mbkk.xsyd,m ry psgpu;mcpetma.nnmramqskmrlym nbsxk,mbyumnsggnp
 ry peypumbvr.gmgqpmappnsydkmramrgqpekw

 rygebetmgrmgqpm.k.bnm r.ekpmramgqsydk,mXewmPngry'kmlbygsydmgrmfbtmqsk
buuepkkpkmgrmqpemqbumk.yomqsxmsymqpemrfsysrywmQskmferapkksrykmbyumqsk
ferfrkbnkmusumqsxmyrmkpecs pwmKqpmgqr.dqgmyrgqsydmramqskmbggb qxpyg,
byumlbkmsyk.ngpumvtmqskmqrfpkwmQpmlbygpumgrmxbeetmlpnn,mbyumqbcsydmgqp
beerdby pmgrmebskpmqskmptpkmgrmqpe,mfepgpyupumgrmvpmsymnrcp;mv.gmkqpmlbk
fpeap gntmpbktmbkmgrmqskmyrgmk.aapesydmbytmuskbffrsygxpygmgqbgmyppumvp
 bepumarewmGqpepmqbumvppymyrmepbnmbaap gsrympsgqpemsymqskmnbyd.bdpmre
xbyypekwmKsdqkmbyumasypmlreukmqbumvppymdscpymsymbv.yuby p;mv.gmkqpm r.nu
qbeuntmupcskpmbytmkpgmrampjfepkksryk,mremaby tmbytmgrypmramcrs p,mnpkk
bnnspumlsgqmepbnmnrcpwmKqpmyppumyrgmger.vnpmqpekpnamgrmfsgtmqsxwmQp
ryntmlbygpumgrmbddebyuskpmbyumpyes qmqsxkpna;mbyumsamXskkmLrruqr.kp
ramQbegaspnu,mgqpmqpsepkkmramgqsegtmgqr.kbyumfr.yuk,mlpepmyrgmh.sgpmkr
pbksntmrvgbsypumbkmqpmqbumaby spu,mqpmlr.numkrrymgetmaremXskkmKrxpvrut
pnkpmlsgqmglpygt,mremlsgqmgpyw

V.g--gqbgmqpmkqr.numgbnomrampy r.ebdpxpyg,mkqr.num ryksupemqpembkmblbep
ramqskmcsplk,mb  pfgsydmqskmbggpygsryk,mxpbysydm(symkqreg),mgrmxbeet
qsx!--kqr.numk.ffrkpmqsxkpnamqpemph.bnmsym ryypjsrymremxsyu!--nrromurly
.frymqpemaespyu,mkrmlpnnm.yupekgbyusydmgqpmdebubgsrykmramebyomvpnrl
qsx,mbyumvpmkrmvnsyumgrmlqbgmerkpmbvrcp,mbkmgrmaby tmqsxkpnamkqplsydmyr
fepk.xfgsrymsymbuuepkksydmqpe!--Sgmlbkmxrkgmfercrosydw

Fpeqbfkmsgmlbkmyrgmabsemgrmpjfp gmqsxmgrmappnmqrlmcpetmx. qmqpmlbkmqpe
syapesremsymgbnpyg,mbyumbnnmgqpmpnpdby spkmramxsyuwmGqpmcpetmlbygmra
k. qmph.bnsgtmxsdqgmfepcpygmqskmfpe pfgsrymramsg;mv.gmqpmx.kgmoyrlmgqbg
symareg.ypmbyum rykph.py pmkqpmlbkmdepbgntmqskmk.fpesrewmQpmx.kg
oyrlmgqbgmgqpmLrruqr.kpkmqbumvppymkpggnpumaremkpcpebnmdpypebgsrykmbg
Qbegaspnu,mgqpmtr.ydpemveby qmrambmcpetmby spygmabxsnt--byumgqbgmgqp
PngrykmlpepmyrvrutwmGqpmnbyupumferfpegtmramQbegaspnum pegbsyntmlbk
sy ryksupebvnp,mvpsydmv.gmbmkregmramyrg qmsymgqpmUrylpnnmBvvptmpkgbgp,
grmlqs qmbnnmgqpmepkgmramQsdqv.etmvpnrydpu;mv.gmgqpsemareg.yp,maerx
rgqpemkr.e pk,mlbkmk. qmbkmgrmxbopmgqpxmk be pntmkp ryubetmgrmUrylpnn
Bvvptmsgkpna,msympcpetmrgqpemosyumram rykph.py p;mbyumgqpmLrruqr.kpkmqbu
nrydmqpnumbmqsdqmfnb pmsymgqpm ryksupebgsrymramgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumlqs q
XewmPngrymqbumasekgmpygpepumyrgmglrmtpbekmbdr,mgrmxbopmqskmlbtmbkmqp
 r.nu,mlsgqr.gmbytmbnnsby pkmv.gmsymgebup,mrembytmgqsydmgrmep rxxpyumqsx
grmyrgs pmv.gmqskmksg.bgsrymbyumqskm scsnsgtw--V.gmqpmqbumaby spumqpe
symnrcpmlsgqmqsx;mgqbgmpcsupygntmx.kgmqbcpmvppymqskmupfpyupy p;mbyu
bagpemebcsydmbmnsggnpmbvr.gmgqpmkppxsydmsy ryde.sgtmramdpygnpmxbyypek
byumbm ry psgpumqpbu,mPxxbmlbkmrvnsdpumsym rxxrymqrypkgtmgrmkgrf
byumbuxsgmgqbgmqpemrlymvpqbcsr.emgrmqsxmqbumvppymkrm rxfnbskbygmbyu
rvnsdsyd,mkrma.nnmram r.egpktmbyumbggpygsry,mbkm(k.ffrksydmqpemepbn
xrgscpm.yfpe pscpu)mxsdqgmlbeebygmbmxbymramreusybetmrvkpecbgsrymbyu
upns b t,mnsopmXewmPngry,msymaby tsydmqsxkpnambmcpetmup supumabcr.esgpw
Sam_kqp_mqbumkrmxsksygpefepgpumqskmappnsydk,mkqpmqbumnsggnpmesdqgmgr
lryupemgqbgm_qp_,mlsgqmkpna-sygpepkgmgrmvnsyumqsx,mkqr.numqbcpmxskgbopy
qpekw

GqpmasekgmpeerembyumgqpmlrekgmnbtmbgmqpemurrewmSgmlbkmarrnskq,msgmlbk
leryd,mgrmgbopmkrmb gscpmbmfbegmsymvesydsydmbytmglrmfprfnpmgrdpgqpewmSg
lbkmbucpyg.esydmgrrmabe,mbkk.xsydmgrrmx. q,mxbosydmnsdqgmramlqbg
r.dqgmgrmvpmkpesr.k,mbmges omramlqbgmr.dqgmgrmvpmksxfnpwmKqpmlbkmh.sgp
 ry peypumbyumbkqbxpu,mbyumepkrncpumgrmurmk. qmgqsydkmyrmxrepw

“QpepmqbcpmS,”mkbsumkqp,m“b g.bnntmgbnopumfrremQbeespgmsygrmvpsydmcpet
x. qmbggb qpumgrmgqskmxbywmKqpmxsdqgmypcpemqbcpmgqr.dqgmramqsxmv.gmare
xp;mbyum pegbsyntmypcpemlr.numqbcpmgqr.dqgmramqsxmlsgqmqrfp,msamSmqbu
yrgmbkk.epumqpemramqskmbggb qxpyg,maremkqpmskmbkmxrupkgmbyumq.xvnpmbkmS
.kpumgrmgqsyomqsxwmRq!mgqbgmSmqbumvppymkbgskaspumlsgqmfpek.busydmqpemyrg
grmb  pfgmtr.ydmXbegsywmGqpepmSmlbkmh.sgpmesdqgwmGqbgmlbkmlpnnmuryp
ramxp;mv.gmgqpepmSmkqr.numqbcpmkgrffpu,mbyumnpagmgqpmepkgmgrmgsxpmbyu
 qby pwmSmlbkmsygeru. sydmqpemsygrmdrrum rxfbyt,mbyumdscsydmqpemgqp
rffreg.ysgtmramfnpbksydmkrxpmrypmlregqmqbcsyd;mSmr.dqgmyrgmgrmqbcp
bggpxfgpumxrepwmV.gmyrl,mfrremdsen,mqpemfpb pmskm .gm.fmaremkrxpmgsxpw
Smqbcpmvppymv.gmqbnambmaespyumgrmqpe;mbyumsamkqpmlpepm_yrg_mgrmappnmgqsk
uskbffrsygxpygmkrmcpetmx. q,mSmbxmk.epmSmqbcpmyrgmbymsupbmrambytmvrut
pnkpmlqrmlr.numvpmbgmbnnmupksebvnpmaremqpe;--Lsnnsbxm rjp--Rq!myr,mS
 r.numyrgmpyu.epmLsnnsbxm rjp--bmfpegmtr.ydmnbltpew”

Kqpmkgrfgmgrmvn.kqmbyumnb.dqmbgmqpemrlymepnbfkp,mbyumgqpymepk.xpumbmxrep
kpesr.k,mxrepmuskfsesgsydm rdsgbgsrym.frymlqbgmqbumvppy,mbyumxsdqgmvp,
byumx.kgmvpwmGqpmuskgepkksydmpjfnbybgsrymkqpmqbumgrmxbopmgrmQbeespg,mbyu
bnnmgqbgmfrremQbeespgmlr.numvpmk.aapesyd,mlsgqmgqpmblolbeuypkkmra
a.g.epmxppgsydk,mgqpmusaas .ngspkmram rygsy.sydmremusk rygsy.sydmgqp
b h.bsygby p,mramk.vu.sydmappnsydk,m ry pbnsydmepkpygxpyg,mbyumbcrsusyd
p nbg,mlpepmpyr.dqmgrmr  .ftmqpemsymxrkgm.yxsegqa.nmepanp gsrykmkrxp
gsxpmnrydpe,mbyumkqpmlpygmgrmvpumbgmnbkgmlsgqmyrgqsydmkpggnpumv.gmgqp
 rycs gsrymramqpemqbcsydmvn.yupepumxrkgmuepbua.nntw

Grmtr.gqmbyumybg.ebnm qppea.nypkkmnsopmPxxb'k,mgqr.dqm.yupemgpxfrebet
dnrrxmbgmysdqg,mgqpmepg.eymramubtmlsnnmqbeuntmabsnmgrmvesydmepg.eymra
kfsesgkwmGqpmtr.gqmbyum qppea.nypkkmramxreysydmbepmsymqbfftmbybnrdt,
byumramfrlpea.nmrfpebgsry;mbyumsamgqpmuskgepkkmvpmyrgmfrsdybygmpyr.dq
grmoppfmgqpmptpkm.y nrkpu,mgqptmlsnnmvpmk.epmgrmrfpymgrmkpykbgsrykmra
kragpypumfbsymbyumvesdqgpemqrfpw

Pxxbmdrgm.fmrymgqpmxreerlmxrepmuskfrkpumarem rxaregmgqbymkqpmqbumdryp
grmvpu,mxrepmepbutmgrmkppmbnnpcsbgsrykmramgqpmpcsnmvparepmqpe,mbyumgr
upfpyumrymdpggsydmgrnpebvntmr.gmramsgw

Sgmlbkmbmdepbgm rykrnbgsrymgqbgmXewmPngrymkqr.numyrgmvpmepbnntmsy
nrcpmlsgqmqpe,mremkrmfbegs .nbentmbxsbvnpmbkmgrmxbopmsgmkqr osydmgr
uskbffrsygmqsx--gqbgmQbeespg'kmybg.epmkqr.numyrgmvpmramgqbgmk.fpesre
kregmsymlqs qmgqpmappnsydkmbepmxrkgmb .gpmbyumepgpygscp--byumgqbgmgqpep
 r.numvpmyrmyp pkksgtmarembytmvrut'kmoyrlsydmlqbgmqbumfbkkpumpj pfgmgqp
gqeppmfesy sfbnk,mbyumpkfp sbnntmaremqpemabgqpe'kmvpsydmdscpymbmxrxpyg'k
.ypbksypkkmbvr.gmsgw

Gqpkpmlpepmcpetm qppesydmgqr.dqgk;mbyumgqpmksdqgmrambmdepbgmupbnmramkyrl
rymgqpmder.yumusumqpema.egqpemkpecs p,marembytmgqsydmlbkmlpn rxpmgqbg
xsdqgmz.kgsatmgqpsembnnmgqeppmvpsydmh.sgpmbk.yupembgmfepkpygw

Gqpmlpbgqpemlbkmxrkgmabcr.ebvnpmaremqpe;mgqr.dqm qeskgxbkmUbt,mkqp
 r.numyrgmdrmgrm q.e qwmXewmLrruqr.kpmlr.numqbcpmvppymxskpebvnpmqbumqsk
ub.dqgpembggpxfgpumsg,mbyumkqpmlbkmgqpeparepmkbapmaerxmpsgqpempj sgsyd
remep pscsydm.yfnpbkbygmbyumxrkgm.yk.sgbvnpmsupbkwmGqpmder.yum rcpepu
lsgqmkyrl,mbyumgqpmbgxrkfqpepmsymgqbgm.ykpggnpumkgbgpmvpglppymaerkgmbyu
gqbl,mlqs qmskmrambnnmrgqpekmgqpmxrkgm.yaespyuntmarempjpe skp,mpcpet
xreysydmvpdsyysydmsymebsymremkyrl,mbyumpcpetmpcpysydmkpggsydmsymgr
aeppip,mkqpmlbkmaremxbytmubtkmbmxrkgmqryr.ebvnpmfeskrypewmYrmsygpe r.ekp
lsgqmQbeespgmfrkksvnpmv.gmvtmyrgp;myrm q.e qmaremqpemrymK.yubtmbyt
xrepmgqbymrym qeskgxbkmUbt;mbyumyrmyppumgrmasyumpj .kpkmaremXewmPngry'k
bvkpygsydmqsxkpnaw

Sgmlbkmlpbgqpemlqs qmxsdqgmabsentm ryasypmpcpetmvrutmbgmqrxp;mbyumgqr.dq
kqpmqrfpumbyumvpnspcpumqsxmgrmvpmepbnntmgbosydm rxaregmsymkrxpmkr spgt
remrgqpe,msgmlbkmcpetmfnpbkbygmgrmqbcpmqpemabgqpemkrmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgq
qskmvpsydmbnnmbnrypmsymqskmrlymqr.kp,mgrrmlskpmgrmkgsemr.g;mbyumgr
qpbemqsxmkbtmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqrxmyrmlpbgqpem r.numoppfmpygsepntmaerx
gqpx,--

“Bq!mXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqtmurmyrgmtr.mkgbtmbgmqrxpmnsopmfrremXewmPngry?”

Gqpkpmubtkmram ryasypxpygmlr.numqbcpmvppy,mv.gmaremqpemfescbgp
fpefnpjsgspk,mepxbeobvntm rxaregbvnp,mbkmk. qmkp n.ksrympjb gntmk.sgpu
qpemvergqpe,mlqrkpmappnsydkmx.kgmbnlbtkmvpmramdepbgmsxfregby pmgr
qskm rxfbysryk;mbyumqpmqbu,mvpksupk,mkrmgqrer.dqntm npbepumraamqsk
snn-q.xr.embgmEbyubnnk,mgqbgmqskmbxsbvnpypkkmypcpemabsnpumqsxmu.esydmgqp
epkgmramqskmkgbtmbgmQbegaspnuwmQpmlbkmbnlbtkmbdeppbvnpmbyumrvnsdsyd,
byumkfpbosydmfnpbkbygntmrampcpetmvrutwmV.gmlsgqmbnnmgqpmqrfpkmra
 qppea.nypkk,mbyumbnnmgqpmfepkpygm rxaregmramupnbt,mgqpepmlbkmkgsnnmk. q
bympcsnmqbydsydmrcpemqpemsymgqpmqr.emrampjfnbybgsrymlsgqmQbeespg,mbk
xbupmsgmsxfrkksvnpmaremPxxbmgrmvpmpcpemfpeap gntmbgmpbkpw



 QBFGPEmJCSS


XewmbyumXekwmZrqymOysdqgnptmlpepmyrgmupgbsypumnrydmbgmQbegaspnuwmGqp
lpbgqpemkrrymsxfercpumpyr.dqmaremgqrkpmgrmxrcpmlqrmx.kgmxrcp;mbyumXew
Lrruqr.kpmqbcsyd,mbkm.k.bn,mgespumgrmfpek.bupmqskmub.dqgpemgrmkgbt
vpqsyumlsgqmbnnmqpem qsnuepy,mlbkmrvnsdpumgrmkppmgqpmlqrnpmfbegt
kpgmraa,mbyumepg.eymgrmqskmnbxpygbgsrykmrcpemgqpmupkgsytmramfrre
Skbvpnnb;--lqs qmfrremSkbvpnnb,mfbkksydmqpemnsapmlsgqmgqrkpmkqpmurbgpu
ry,ma.nnmramgqpsemxpesgk,mvnsyumgrmgqpsemab.ngk,mbyumbnlbtkmsyyr pygnt
v.kt,mxsdqgmqbcpmvppymbmxrupnmramesdqgmapxsysypmqbffsypkkw

Gqpmpcpysydmramgqpmcpetmubtmrymlqs qmgqptmlpygmver.dqgmbmyrgpmaerxmXew
PngrymgrmXewmLrruqr.kp,mbmnryd,m scsn,m pepxrysr.kmyrgp,mgrmkbt,mlsgq
XewmPngry'kmvpkgm rxfnsxpygk,m“gqbgmqpmlbkmferfrksydmgrmnpbcpmQsdqv.et
gqpmarnnrlsydmxreysydmsymqskmlbtmgrmVbgq;mlqpep,msym rxfnsby pmlsgq
gqpmfepkksydmpygepbgspkmramkrxpmaespyuk,mqpmqbumpydbdpumgrmkfpyumbmapl
lppok,mbyumcpetmx. qmepdepggpumgqpmsxfrkksvsnsgtmqpmlbkm.yupe,maerx
cbesr.km se .xkgby pkmramlpbgqpembyumv.ksypkk,mramgbosydmbmfpekrybn
npbcpmramXewmLrruqr.kp,mramlqrkpmaespyuntm scsnsgspkmqpmkqr.numpcpe
epgbsymbmdebgpa.nmkpykp--byumqbumXewmLrruqr.kpmbytm rxxbyuk,mkqr.numvp
qbfftmgrmbggpyumgrmgqpxw”

Pxxbmlbkmxrkgmbdeppbvntmk.efesipuw--XewmPngry'kmbvkpy pmz.kgmbgmgqsk
gsxpmlbkmgqpmcpetmgqsydmgrmvpmupksepuwmKqpmbuxsepumqsxmarem rygescsyd
sg,mgqr.dqmyrgmbvnpmgrmdscpmqsxmx. qm epusgmaremgqpmxbyypemsymlqs qmsg
lbkmbyyr.y puwmEpkpygxpygm r.numyrgmqbcpmvppymxrepmfnbsyntmkfropymgqby
symbm scsnsgtmgrmqpemabgqpe,maerxmlqs qmkqpmlbkmkrmfrsygpuntmpj n.upuw
Kqpmqbumyrgmpcpymbmkqbepmsymqskmrfpysydm rxfnsxpygkw--Qpemybxpmlbkmyrg
xpygsrypu;--byumgqpepmlbkmkrmkgesosydmbm qbydpmsymbnnmgqsk,mbyumk. qmby
snn-z.udpumkrnpxysgtmramnpbcp-gbosydmsymqskmdeb pa.nmb oyrlnpudxpygk,mbk
kqpmgqr.dqg,mbgmasekg,m r.numyrgmpk bfpmqpemabgqpe'kmk.kfs sryw

Sgmusu,mqrlpcpew--Qpemabgqpemlbkmh.sgpmgbopym.fmlsgqmgqpmk.efesipmramkr
k.uupymbmzr.eypt,mbyumqskmapbekmgqbgmXewmPngrymxsdqgmypcpemdpgmkbapntmgr
gqpmpyumramsg,mbyumkblmyrgqsydmpjgebreusybetmsymqskmnbyd.bdpwmSgmlbkmb
cpetm.kpa.nmyrgp,maremsgmk.ffnspumgqpxmlsgqmaepkqmxbggpemaremgqr.dqg
byum rycpekbgsrymu.esydmgqpmepkgmramgqpsemnrypntmpcpysydwmXewmLrruqr.kp
gbnopumrcpemqskmbnbexk,mbyumPxxbmlbkmsymkfsesgkmgrmfpek.bupmgqpxmblbt
lsgqmbnnmqpem.k.bnmferxfgsg.upw

KqpmyrlmepkrncpumgrmoppfmQbeespgmyrmnrydpemsymgqpmubeowmKqpmqbumepbkry
grmvpnspcpmqpemypbentmep rcpepumaerxmqpem rnu,mbyumsgmlbkmupksebvnpmgqbg
kqpmkqr.numqbcpmbkmx. qmgsxpmbkmfrkksvnpmaremdpggsydmgqpmvpggpemra
qpemrgqpem rxfnbsygmvparepmgqpmdpygnpxby'kmepg.eywmKqpmlpygmgrmXekw
Druubeu'kmb  reusydntmgqpmcpetmypjgmubt,mgrm.yupedrmgqpmyp pkkbet
fpyby pmram rxx.ys bgsry;mbyumbmkpcpepmrypmsgmlbkw--Kqpmqbumgrmupkgert
bnnmgqpmqrfpkmlqs qmkqpmqbumvppymkrmsyu.kgesr.kntmappusyd--grmbffpbemsy
gqpm.ydeb sr.km qbeb gpemramgqpmrypmfepapeepu--byumb oyrlnpudpmqpekpna
derkkntmxskgbopymbyumxsk-z.udsydmsymbnnmqpemsupbkmrymrypmk.vzp g,mbnn
qpemrvkpecbgsryk,mbnnmqpem rycs gsryk,mbnnmqpemferfqp spkmaremgqpmnbkg
ksjmlppokw

Gqpm ryapkksrym rxfnpgpntmepyplpumqpemasekgmkqbxp--byumgqpmksdqgmra
Qbeespg'kmgpbekmxbupmqpemgqsyomgqbgmkqpmkqr.numypcpemvpmsym qbesgtmlsgq
qpekpnambdbsyw

Qbeespgmvrepmgqpmsygpnnsdpy pmcpetmlpnn--vnbxsydmyrvrut--byumsympcpet
gqsydmgpkgsatsydmk. qmbymsydpy.r.kypkkmramuskfrksgsrymbyumnrlntmrfsysry
ramqpekpna,mbkmx.kgmbffpbemlsgqmfbegs .nbembucbygbdpmbgmgqbgmxrxpygmgr
qpemaespyuw

Pxxbmlbkmsymgqpmq.xr.emgrmcbn.pmksxfns sgtmbyumxrupkgtmgrmgqpm.gxrkg;
byumbnnmgqbgmlbkmbxsbvnp,mbnnmgqbgmr.dqgmgrmvpmbggb qsyd,mkppxpumry
Qbeespg'kmksup,myrgmqpemrlywmQbeespgmusumyrgm ryksupemqpekpnambkmqbcsyd
bytmgqsydmgrm rxfnbsymrawmGqpmbaap gsrymramk. qmbmxbymbkmXewmPngry
lr.numqbcpmvppymgrrmdepbgmbmuskgsy gsryw--Kqpmypcpem r.numqbcpmupkpecpu
qsx--byumyrvrutmv.gmkrmfbegsbnmbyumosyumbmaespyumbkmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlr.nu
qbcpmgqr.dqgmsgmfrkksvnpw

Qpemgpbekmapnnmbv.yubygnt--v.gmqpemdespamlbkmkrmge.ntmbegnpkk,mgqbg
yrmusdysgtm r.numqbcpmxbupmsgmxrepmepkfp gbvnpmsymPxxb'kmptpk--byu
kqpmnskgpypumgrmqpembyumgespumgrm rykrnpmqpemlsgqmbnnmqpemqpbegmbyu
.yupekgbyusyd--epbnntmaremgqpmgsxpm rycsy pumgqbgmQbeespgmlbkmgqp
k.fpesrem epbg.epmramgqpmglr--byumgqbgmgrmepkpxvnpmqpemlr.numvpmxrepmare
qpemrlymlpnabepmbyumqbffsypkkmgqbymbnnmgqbgmdpys.kmremsygpnnsdpy pm r.nu
urw

Sgmlbkmebgqpemgrrmnbgpmsymgqpmubtmgrmkpgmbvr.gmvpsydmksxfnp-xsyupumbyu
sdyrebyg;mv.gmkqpmnpagmqpemlsgqmpcpetmfepcsr.kmepkrn.gsrym ryasexpumra
vpsydmq.xvnpmbyumusk eppg,mbyumepfepkksydmsxbdsybgsrymbnnmgqpmepkgmra
qpemnsapwmQpemkp ryumu.gtmyrl,msyapesremryntmgrmqpemabgqpe'km nbsxk,mlbk
grmferxrgpmQbeespg'km rxareg,mbyumpyupbcr.emgrmfercpmqpemrlymbaap gsry
symkrxpmvpggpemxpgqrumgqbymvtmxbg q-xbosydwmKqpmdrgmqpemgrmQbegaspnu,
byumkqplpumqpemgqpmxrkgm.ycbetsydmosyuypkk,mkgescsydmgrmr  .ftmbyu
bx.kpmqpe,mbyumvtmvrrokmbyum rycpekbgsry,mgrmuescpmXewmPngrymaerxmqpe
gqr.dqgkw

Gsxp,mkqpmoypl,mx.kgmvpmbnnrlpumaremgqskmvpsydmgqrer.dqntmuryp;mbyu
kqpm r.numk.ffrkpmqpekpnamv.gmbymsyusaapepygmz.udpmramk. qmxbggpekmsy
dpypebn,mbyumcpetmsybuph.bgpmgrmktxfbgqskpmsymbymbggb qxpygmgrmXewmPngry
symfbegs .nbe;mv.gmsgmkppxpumgrmqpemepbkrybvnpmgqbgmbgmQbeespg'kmbdp,
byumlsgqmgqpmpygsepmpjgsy gsrymrambnnmqrfp,mk. qmbmferdepkkmxsdqgmvp
xbupmgrlbeukmbmkgbgpmram rxfrk.epmvtmgqpmgsxpmramXewmPngry'kmepg.ey,mbk
grmbnnrlmgqpxmbnnmgrmxppgmbdbsymsymgqpm rxxrymer.gsypmramb h.bsygby p,
lsgqr.gmbytmubydpemramvpgebtsydmkpygsxpygkmremsy epbksydmgqpxw

Qbeespgmusumgqsyomqsxmbnnmfpeap gsry,mbyumxbsygbsypumgqpmyry-pjskgpy p
rambytmvrutmph.bnmgrmqsxmsymfpekrymremdrruypkk--byumusu,msymge.gq,
fercpmqpekpnamxrepmepkrn.gpntmsymnrcpmgqbymPxxbmqbumarepkppy;mv.gmtpg
sgmbffpbepumgrmqpemkrmybg.ebn,mkrmsypcsgbvnpmgrmkgescpmbdbsykgmby
sy nsybgsrymramgqbgmkregm_.yeph.sgpu_,mgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgm rxfepqpyumsgk
 rygsy.sydmcpetmnrydmsymph.bnmare pw

SamXewmPngry,mrymqskmepg.ey,mxbupmqskmrlymsyusaapepy pmbkmpcsupygmbyu
syu.vsgbvnpmbkmkqpm r.numyrgmur.vgmqpmlr.numbyjsr.kntmur,mkqpm r.numyrg
sxbdsypmQbeespg'kmfpekskgsydmgrmfnb pmqpemqbffsypkkmsymgqpmksdqgmremgqp
ep rnnp gsrymramqsxw

Gqpsemvpsydmasjpu,mkrmbvkrn.gpntmasjpu,msymgqpmkbxpmfnb p,mlbkmvbumare
pb q,marembnnmgqeppwmYrgmrypmramgqpxmqbumgqpmfrlpemramepxrcbn,mremra
paap gsydmbytmxbgpesbnm qbydpmramkr spgtwmGqptmx.kgmpy r.ygpempb q
rgqpe,mbyumxbopmgqpmvpkgmramsgw

Qbeespgmlbkmabegqpem.yareg.ybgpmsymgqpmgrypmramqpem rxfbysrykmbgmXekw
Druubeu'k;mXewmPngrymvpsydmgqpmburebgsrymrambnnmgqpmgpb qpekmbyumdepbg
dsenkmsymgqpmk qrrn;mbyumsgmx.kgmvpmbgmQbegaspnumryntmgqbgmkqpm r.nu
qbcpmbytm qby pmramqpbesydmqsxmkfropymramlsgqm rrnsydmxrupebgsrymre
epfpnnpygmge.gqwmLqpepmgqpmlr.yumqbumvppymdscpy,mgqpepmx.kgmgqpm .epmvp
ar.yumsambytlqpep;mbyumPxxbmapngmgqbg,mgsnnmkqpmkblmqpemsymgqpmlbtmra
 .ep,mgqpepm r.numvpmyrmge.pmfpb pmaremqpekpnaw



 QBFGPEmJCSSS


XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmusumyrgm rxpwmLqpymgqpmgsxpmferfrkpumueplmypbe,mXekw
Lpkgry'kmapbekmlpepmz.kgsaspumsymgqpmbeescbnmrambmnpggpemrampj .kpwmAre
gqpmfepkpyg,mqpm r.numyrgmvpmkfbepu,mgrmqskm“cpetmdepbgmxregsas bgsry
byumepdepg;mv.gmkgsnnmqpmnrropumarelbeumlsgqmgqpmqrfpmram rxsydmgr
Ebyubnnkmbgmyrmuskgbygmfpesruw”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmpj ppusydntmuskbffrsygpu--x. qmxrepmuskbffrsygpu,msy
ab g,mgqbymqpemq.kvbyu,mgqr.dqmqpemupfpyupy pmrymkppsydmgqpmtr.ydmxby
qbumvppymkrmx. qmxrepmkrvpe:mv.gmbmkbyd.sypmgpxfpe,mgqr.dqmarempcpe
pjfp gsydmxrepmdrrumgqbymr  .ek,murpkmyrgmbnlbtkmfbtmaremsgkmqrfpkmvt
bytmferfregsrybgpmupfepkksrywmSgmkrrymanspkmrcpemgqpmfepkpygmabsn.ep,
byumvpdsykmgrmqrfpmbdbsywmAremqbnambymqr.emXewmLpkgrymlbkmk.efesipumbyu
kreet;mv.gmgqpymqpmvpdbymgrmfpe pscpmgqbgmAebyo'km rxsydmglrmremgqepp
xrygqkmnbgpemlr.numvpmbmx. qmvpggpemfnby;mvpggpemgsxpmramtpbe;
vpggpemlpbgqpe;mbyumgqbgmqpmlr.numvpmbvnp,mlsgqr.gmbytmur.vg,mgrmkgbt
 ryksupebvntmnrydpemlsgqmgqpxmgqbymsamqpmqbum rxpmkrrypew

Gqpkpmappnsydkmebfsuntmepkgrepumqskm rxareg,mlqsnpmXekwmLpkgry,mra
bmxrepmbffepqpykscpmuskfrksgsry,marepkblmyrgqsydmv.gmbmepfpgsgsrymra
pj .kpkmbyumupnbtk;mbyumbagpembnnmqpem ry peymaremlqbgmqpemq.kvbyumlbk
grmk.aape,mk.aapepumbmdepbgmupbnmxrepmqpekpnaw

Pxxbmlbkmyrgmbgmgqskmgsxpmsymbmkgbgpmramkfsesgkmgrm bepmepbnntmbvr.gmXew
Aebyom q.e qsnn'kmyrgm rxsyd,mpj pfgmbkmbmuskbffrsygxpygmbgmEbyubnnkw
Gqpmb h.bsygby pmbgmfepkpygmqbumyrm qbexmaremqpewmKqpmlbygpu,mebgqpe,mgr
vpmh.spg,mbyumr.gmramgpxfgbgsry;mv.gmkgsnn,mbkmsgmlbkmupksebvnpmgqbgmkqp
kqr.numbffpbe,msymdpypebn,mnsopmqpem.k.bnmkpna,mkqpmgrrom bepmgrmpjfepkk
bkmx. qmsygpepkgmsymgqpm se .xkgby p,mbyumpygpembkmlbexntmsygrmXew
byumXekwmLpkgry'kmuskbffrsygxpyg,mbkmxsdqgmybg.ebnntmvpnrydmgrmgqpse
aespyukqsfw

Kqpmlbkmgqpmasekgmgrmbyyr.y pmsgmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt;mbyumpj nbsxpumh.sgp
bkmx. qmbkmlbkmyp pkkbet,m(re,mvpsydmb gsydmbmfbeg,mfpeqbfkmebgqpe
xrep,)mbgmgqpm ryu. gmramgqpm q.e qsnnk,msymoppfsydmqsxmblbtwmKqpmgqpy
fer ppupumgrmkbtmbmdrrumupbnmxrepmgqbymkqpmapng,mramgqpmbucbygbdpmra
k. qmbymbuusgsrymgrmgqpsem ryasypumkr spgtmsymK.eet;mgqpmfnpbk.epmra
nrrosydmbgmkrxpvrutmypl;mgqpmdbnb-ubtmgrmQsdqv.etmpygsep,mlqs qmgqp
ksdqgmramqsxmlr.numqbcpmxbup;mbyumpyusydmlsgqmepanp gsrykmrymgqp
 q.e qsnnkmbdbsy,mar.yumqpekpnamusep gntmsycrncpumsymbmuskbdeppxpyg
lsgqmXewmOysdqgnpt;mbyu,mgrmqpemdepbgmbx.kpxpyg,mfpe pscpumgqbgmkqpmlbk
gbosydmgqpmrgqpemksupmramgqpmh.pkgsrymaerxmqpemepbnmrfsysry,mbyumxbosyd
.kpmramXekwmLpkgry'kmbed.xpygkmbdbsykgmqpekpnaw

“Gqpm q.e qsnnkmbepmcpetmnsopntmsymab.ng,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt,m rrnnt;
“v.gmSmubepmkbtmqpmxsdqgm rxpmsamqpmlr.nuw”

“Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqtmtr.mkqr.numkbtmkrwmQpmlskqpkmpj ppusydntmgrm rxp;mv.g
qskm.y npmbyumb.ygmlsnnmyrgmkfbepmqsxw”

“Sm byyrgmvpnspcpmgqbgmqpmqbkmyrgmgqpmfrlpemram rxsyd,msamqpmxbupmb
frsygmramsgwmSgmskmgrrm.ynsopnt,maremxpmgrmvpnspcpmsgmlsgqr.gmferraw”

“Qrlmruumtr.mbep!mLqbgmqbkmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmuryp,mgrmxbopmtr.mk.ffrkp
qsxmk. qmbym.yybg.ebnm epbg.ep?”

“Smbxmyrgmk.ffrksydmqsxmbgmbnnmbym.yybg.ebnm epbg.ep,msymk.kfp gsydmgqbg
qpmxbtmqbcpmnpbeygmgrmvpmbvrcpmqskm ryypjsryk,mbyumgrm bepmcpetmnsggnp
arembytmgqsydmv.gmqskmrlymfnpbk.ep,maerxmnscsydmlsgqmgqrkpmlqrmqbcp
bnlbtkmkpgmqsxmgqpmpjbxfnpmramsgwmSgmskmbmdepbgmupbnmxrepmybg.ebnmgqby
rypm r.numlskq,mgqbgmbmtr.ydmxby,mver.dqgm.fmvtmgqrkpmlqrmbepmfer.u,
n.j.esr.k,mbyumkpnaskq,mkqr.numvpmfer.u,mn.j.esr.k,mbyumkpnaskqmgrrwmSa
Aebyom q.e qsnnmqbumlbygpumgrmkppmqskmabgqpe,mqpmlr.numqbcpm rygescpumsg
vpglppymKpfgpxvpembyumZby.betwmBmxbymbgmqskmbdp--lqbgmskmqp?--gqeppmre
ar.e-byu-glpygt-- byyrgmvpmlsgqr.gmgqpmxpbykmramursydmbkmx. qmbkmgqbgw
Sgmskmsxfrkksvnpw”

“Gqbg'kmpbksntmkbsu,mbyumpbksntmapngmvtmtr.,mlqrmqbcpmbnlbtkmvppymtr.e
rlymxbkgpewmTr.mbepmgqpmlrekgmz.udpmsymgqpmlrenu,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mramgqp
usaas .ngspkmramupfpyupy pwmTr.murmyrgmoyrlmlqbgmsgmskmgrmqbcpmgpxfpek
grmxbybdpw”

“Sgmskmyrgmgrmvpm ry pscpumgqbgmbmxbymramgqeppmremar.e-byu-glpygt
kqr.numyrgmqbcpmnsvpegtmramxsyumremnsxvmgrmgqbgmbxr.ygwmQpm byyrgmlbyg
xrypt--qpm byyrgmlbygmnpsk.epwmLpmoyrl,mrymgqpm rygebet,mgqbgmqpmqbkmkr
x. qmramvrgq,mgqbgmqpmskmdnbumgrmdpgmesumramgqpxmbgmgqpmsunpkgmqb.ygkmsy
gqpmosydurxwmLpmqpbemramqsxmarempcpembgmkrxpmlbgpesyd-fnb pmremrgqpewmB
nsggnpmlqsnpmbdr,mqpmlbkmbgmLptxr.gqwmGqskmfercpkmgqbgmqpm bymnpbcpmgqp
 q.e qsnnkw”

“Tpk,mkrxpgsxpkmqpm byw”

“Byumgqrkpmgsxpkmbepmlqpypcpemqpmgqsyokmsgmlregqmqskmlqsnp;mlqpypcpe
gqpepmskmbytmgpxfgbgsrymramfnpbk.epw”

“Sgmskmcpetm.yabsemgrmz.udpmrambytmvrut'km ryu. g,mlsgqr.gmbymsygsxbgp
oyrlnpudpmramgqpsemksg.bgsrywmYrvrut,mlqrmqbkmyrgmvppymsymgqpmsygpesre
rambmabxsnt,m bymkbtmlqbgmgqpmusaas .ngspkmrambytmsyuscsu.bnmramgqbg
abxsntmxbtmvpwmLpmr.dqgmgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmPyk rxvp,mbyumlsgqmXekw
 q.e qsnn'kmgpxfpe,mvparepmlpmfepgpyumgrmup supm.frymlqbgmqpemypfqpl
 bymurwmQpmxbt,mbgmgsxpk,mvpmbvnpmgrmurmbmdepbgmupbnmxrepmgqbymqpm bymbg
rgqpekw”

“Gqpepmskmrypmgqsyd,mPxxb,mlqs qmbmxbym bymbnlbtkmur,msamqpm q.kpk,mbyu
gqbgmsk,mqskmu.gt;myrgmvtmxbyrp.cesydmbyumasypkksyd,mv.gmvtmcsdr.embyu
epkrn.gsrywmSgmskmAebyom q.e qsnn'kmu.gtmgrmfbtmgqskmbggpygsrymgrmqsk
abgqpewmQpmoyrlkmsgmgrmvpmkr,mvtmqskmferxskpkmbyumxpkkbdpk;mv.gmsamqp
lskqpumgrmurmsg,msgmxsdqgmvpmurypwmBmxbymlqrmapngmesdqgntmlr.numkbtmbg
ry p,mksxfntmbyumepkrn.gpnt,mgrmXekwm q.e qsnn--'Pcpetmkb esas pmra
xpepmfnpbk.epmtr.mlsnnmbnlbtkmasyumxpmepbutmgrmxbopmgrmtr.em rycpyspy p;
v.gmSmx.kgmdrmbyumkppmxtmabgqpemsxxpusbgpntwmSmoyrlmqpmlr.numvpmq.egmvt
xtmabsnsydmsymk. qmbmxbeomramepkfp gmgrmqsxmrymgqpmfepkpygmr  bksryw
Smkqbnn,mgqpeparep,mkpgmraamgr-xreerlw'--Samqpmlr.numkbtmkrmgrmqpe
bgmry p,msymgqpmgrypmramup sksrymvp rxsydmbmxby,mgqpepmlr.numvpmyr
rffrksgsrymxbupmgrmqskmdrsydw”

“Yr,”mkbsumPxxb,mnb.dqsyd;m“v.gmfpeqbfkmgqpepmxsdqgmvpmkrxpmxbupmgrmqsk
 rxsydmvb ombdbsywmK. qmnbyd.bdpmarembmtr.ydmxbympygsepntmupfpyupyg,mgr
.kp!--Yrvrutmv.gmtr.,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mlr.numsxbdsypmsgmfrkksvnpwmV.gmtr.
qbcpmyrgmbymsupbmramlqbgmskmeph.sksgpmsymksg.bgsrykmusep gntmrffrksgpmgr
tr.emrlywmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgrmvpmxbosydmk. qmbmkfpp qmbkmgqbgmgr
gqpm.y npmbyumb.yg,mlqrmqbcpmver.dqgmqsxm.f,mbyumbepmgrmfercsupmare
qsx!--Kgbyusydm.fmsymgqpmxsuunpmramgqpmerrx,mSmk.ffrkp,mbyumkfpbosydmbk
nr.umbkmqpm r.nu!--Qrlm bymtr.msxbdsypmk. qm ryu. gmfeb gs bvnp?”

“Upfpyum.frymsg,mPxxb,mbmkpyksvnpmxbymlr.numasyumyrmusaas .ngtmsymsgwmQp
lr.numappnmqsxkpnamsymgqpmesdqg;mbyumgqpmup nbebgsry--xbup,mram r.ekp,
bkmbmxbymramkpykpmlr.numxbopmsg,msymbmferfpemxbyype--lr.numurmqsxmxrep
drru,mebskpmqsxmqsdqpe,masjmqskmsygpepkgmkgerydpemlsgqmgqpmfprfnpmqp
upfpyupumry,mgqbymbnnmgqbgmbmnsypmramkqsagkmbyumpjfpuspygkm bympcpemurw
Epkfp gmlr.numvpmbuupumgrmbaap gsrywmGqptmlr.numappnmgqbgmgqptm r.nu
ge.kgmqsx;mgqbgmgqpmypfqplmlqrmqbumurypmesdqgntmvtmqskmabgqpe,mlr.numur
esdqgntmvtmgqpx;maremgqptmoyrl,mbkmlpnnmbkmqpmurpk,mbkmlpnnmbkmbnnmgqp
lrenumx.kgmoyrl,mgqbgmqpmr.dqgmgrmfbtmgqskmcsksgmgrmqskmabgqpe;mbyu
lqsnpmxpbyntmpjpegsydmgqpsemfrlpemgrmupnbtmsg,mbepmsymgqpsemqpbegkmyrg
gqsyosydmgqpmvpggpemramqsxmaremk.vxsggsydmgrmgqpsemlqsxkwmEpkfp gmare
esdqgm ryu. gmskmapngmvtmpcpetmvrutwmSamqpmlr.numb gmsymgqskmkregmra
xbyype,mrymfesy sfnp,m rykskgpygnt,mepd.nbent,mgqpsemnsggnpmxsyukmlr.nu
vpyumgrmqskw”

“Smebgqpemur.vgmgqbgwmTr.mbepmcpetmaryumramvpyusydmnsggnpmxsyuk;mv.g
lqpepmnsggnpmxsyukmvpnrydmgrmes qmfprfnpmsymb.gqresgt,mSmgqsyomgqptmqbcp
bmoyb omramklpnnsydmr.g,mgsnnmgqptmbepmh.sgpmbkm.yxbybdpbvnpmbkmdepbg
rypkwmSm bymsxbdsyp,mgqbgmsamtr.,mbkmtr.mbep,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mlpepmgrmvp
gebykfregpumbyumfnb pumbnnmbgmry pmsymXewmAebyom q.e qsnn'kmksg.bgsry,
tr.mlr.numvpmbvnpmgrmkbtmbyumurmz.kgmlqbgmtr.mqbcpmvppymep rxxpyusydmare
qsx;mbyumsgmxsdqgmqbcpmbmcpetmdrrumpaap gwmGqpm q.e qsnnkmxsdqgmyrgmqbcp
bmlreumgrmkbtmsymepg.ey;mv.gmgqpy,mtr.mlr.numqbcpmyrmqbvsgkmrampbent
rvpuspy pmbyumnrydmrvkpecby pmgrmvepbomgqer.dqwmGrmqsxmlqrmqbk,msgmxsdqg
yrgmvpmkrmpbktmgrmv.ekgmaregqmbgmry pmsygrmfpeap gmsyupfpyupy p,mbyumkpg
bnnmgqpsem nbsxkmrymqskmdebgsg.upmbyumepdbeumbgmyr.dqgwmQpmxbtmqbcpmbk
kgerydmbmkpykpmramlqbgmlr.numvpmesdqg,mbkmtr.m bymqbcp,mlsgqr.gmvpsydmkr
ph.bn,m.yupemfbegs .nbem se .xkgby pk,mgrmb gm.fmgrmsgw”

“Gqpymsgmlr.numyrgmvpmkrmkgerydmbmkpykpwmSamsgmabsnpumgrmferu. pmph.bn
pjpegsry,msgm r.numyrgmvpmbymph.bnm rycs gsryw”

“Rq,mgqpmusaapepy pmramksg.bgsrymbyumqbvsg!mSmlskqmtr.mlr.numgetmgr
.yupekgbyumlqbgmbymbxsbvnpmtr.ydmxbymxbtmvpmnsopntmgrmappnmsymusep gnt
rffrksydmgqrkp,mlqrxmbkm qsnumbyumvrtmqpmqbkmvppymnrrosydm.fmgrmbnnmqsk
nsapw”

“R.embxsbvnpmtr.ydmxbymskmbmcpetmlpbomtr.ydmxby,msamgqskmvpmgqpmasekg
r  bksrymramqskm beetsydmgqer.dqmbmepkrn.gsrymgrmurmesdqgmbdbsykgmgqp
lsnnmramrgqpekwmSgmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmvppymbmqbvsgmlsgqmqsxmvtmgqskmgsxp,mra
arnnrlsydmqskmu.gt,msykgpbumram ryk.ngsydmpjfpuspy twmSm bymbnnrlmare
gqpmapbekmramgqpm qsnu,mv.gmyrgmramgqpmxbywmBkmqpmvp bxpmebgsrybn,mqp
r.dqgmgrmqbcpmer.kpumqsxkpnambyumkqbopymraambnnmgqbgmlbkm.ylregqtmsy
gqpsemb.gqresgtwmQpmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmrffrkpumgqpmasekgmbggpxfgmrymgqpse
ksupmgrmxbopmqsxmknsdqgmqskmabgqpewmQbumqpmvpd.ymbkmqpmr.dqg,mgqpep
lr.numqbcpmvppymyrmusaas .ngtmyrlw”

“Lpmkqbnnmypcpembdeppmbvr.gmqsx,”m espumPxxb;m“v.gmgqbgmskmyrgqsyd
pjgebreusybetwmSmqbcpmyrgmgqpmnpbkgmsupbmramqskmvpsydmbmlpbomtr.ydmxby:
Smappnmk.epmgqbgmqpmskmyrgwmXewmLpkgrymlr.numyrgmvpmvnsyumgrmarnnt,
gqr.dqmsymqskmrlymkry;mv.gmqpmskmcpetmnsopntmgrmqbcpmbmxrepmtspnusyd,
 rxfntsyd,mxsnumuskfrksgsrymgqbymlr.numk.sgmtr.emyrgsrykmramxby'k
fpeap gsrywmSmubepmkbtmqpmqbk;mbyumgqr.dqmsgmxbtm .gmqsxmraamaerxmkrxp
bucbygbdpk,msgmlsnnmkp .epmqsxmxbytmrgqpekw”

“Tpk;mbnnmgqpmbucbygbdpkmramksggsydmkgsnnmlqpymqpmr.dqgmgrmxrcp,mbyu
ramnpbusydmbmnsapmramxpepmsunpmfnpbk.ep,mbyumaby tsydmqsxkpnampjgepxpnt
pjfpegmsymasyusydmpj .kpkmaremsgwmQpm bymksgmurlymbyumlesgpmbmasyp
anr.eskqsydmnpggpe,ma.nnmramferapkksrykmbyumabnkpqrruk,mbyumfpek.bup
qsxkpnamgqbgmqpmqbkmqsgm.frymgqpmcpetmvpkgmxpgqrumsymgqpmlrenumra
fepkpecsydmfpb pmbgmqrxpmbyumfepcpygsydmqskmabgqpe'kmqbcsydmbytmesdqgmgr
 rxfnbsywmQskmnpggpekmuskd.kgmxpw”

“Tr.emappnsydkmbepmksyd.nbewmGqptmkppxmgrmkbgskatmpcpetmvrutmpnkpw”

“Smk.kfp gmgqptmurmyrgmkbgskatmXekwmLpkgrywmGqptmqbeuntm bymkbgskat
bmlrxbymramqpemdrrumkpykpmbyumh.s omappnsydk:mkgbyusydmsymbmxrgqpe'k
fnb p,mv.gmlsgqr.gmbmxrgqpe'kmbaap gsrymgrmvnsyumqpewmSgmskmrymqpe
b  r.ygmgqbgmbggpygsrymgrmEbyubnnkmskmur.vntmu.p,mbyumkqpmx.kgmur.vnt
appnmgqpmrxskksrywmQbumkqpmvppymbmfpekrymram rykph.py pmqpekpna,mqp
lr.numqbcpm rxpmSmubepmkbt;mbyumsgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmksdysaspumlqpgqpe
qpmusumremyrwm bymtr.mgqsyomtr.emaespyumvpqsyuqbyumsymgqpkpmkregmra
 ryksupebgsryk?mUrmtr.mk.ffrkpmkqpmurpkmyrgmragpymkbtmbnnmgqskmgr
qpekpna?mYr,mPxxb,mtr.embxsbvnpmtr.ydmxbym bymvpmbxsbvnpmryntmsymAepy q,
yrgmsymPydnskqwmQpmxbtmvpmcpetm'bxsbvnp,'mqbcpmcpetmdrrumxbyypek,mbyumvp
cpetmbdeppbvnp;mv.gmqpm bymqbcpmyrmPydnskqmupns b tmgrlbeukmgqpmappnsydk
ramrgqpemfprfnp:myrgqsydmepbnntmbxsbvnpmbvr.gmqsxw”

“Tr.mkppxmupgpexsypumgrmgqsyomsnnmramqsxw”

“Xp!--yrgmbgmbnn,”mepfnspumXewmOysdqgnpt,mebgqpemuskfnpbkpu;m“Smurmyrg
lbygmgrmgqsyomsnnmramqsxwmSmkqr.numvpmbkmepbutmgrmb oyrlnpudpmqskmxpesgk
bkmbytmrgqpemxby;mv.gmSmqpbemramyryp,mpj pfgmlqbgmbepmxpepntmfpekrybn;
gqbgmqpmskmlpnn-derlymbyumdrru-nrrosyd,mlsgqmkxrrgq,mfnb.ksvnpmxbyypekw”

“Lpnn,msamqpmqbcpmyrgqsydmpnkpmgrmep rxxpyumqsx,mqpmlsnnmvpmbmgepbk.ep
bgmQsdqv.etwmLpmurmyrgmragpymnrrom.frymasypmtr.ydmxpy,mlpnn-vepumbyu
bdeppbvnpwmLpmx.kgmyrgmvpmys pmbyumbkomarembnnmgqpmcseg.pkmsygrmgqp
vbedbsywm byyrgmtr.msxbdsyp,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqbgmbm_kpykbgsry_mqsk
 rxsydmlsnnmferu. p?mGqpepmlsnnmvpmv.gmrypmk.vzp gmgqer.dqr.gmgqp
fbeskqpkmramUrylpnnmbyumQsdqv.et;mv.gmrypmsygpepkg--rypmrvzp gmra
 .esrksgt;msgmlsnnmvpmbnnmXewmAebyom q.e qsnn;mlpmkqbnnmgqsyombyumkfpbo
ramyrvrutmpnkpw”

“Tr.mlsnnmpj .kpmxtmvpsydmkrmx. qmrcpe-frlpepuwmSamSmasyumqsx
 rycpekbvnp,mSmkqbnnmvpmdnbumramqskmb h.bsygby p;mv.gmsamqpmskmryntmb
 qbggpesydm rj rxv,mqpmlsnnmyrgmr  .ftmx. qmramxtmgsxpmremgqr.dqgkw”

“Xtmsupbmramqsxmsk,mgqbgmqpm bymbubfgmqskm rycpekbgsrymgrmgqpmgbkgpmra
pcpetmvrut,mbyumqbkmgqpmfrlpembkmlpnnmbkmgqpmlskqmramvpsydm.yscpekbnnt
bdeppbvnpwmGrmtr.,mqpmlsnnmgbnomramabexsyd;mgrmxp,mramueblsydmremx.ks ;
byumkrmrymgrmpcpetmvrut,mqbcsydmgqbgmdpypebnmsyarexbgsrymrymbnnmk.vzp gk
lqs qmlsnnmpybvnpmqsxmgrmarnnrlmgqpmnpbu,mremgbopmgqpmnpbu,mz.kgmbk
ferfespgtmxbtmeph.sep,mbyumgrmkfpbompjgepxpntmlpnnmrympb q;mgqbgmskmxt
supbmramqsxw”

“Byumxsyp,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptmlbexnt,m“sk,mgqbgmsamqpmg.eymr.gmbyt
gqsydmnsopmsg,mqpmlsnnmvpmgqpmxrkgmsyk.aapebvnpmapnnrlmvepbgqsyd!mLqbg!
bgmgqepp-byu-glpygtmgrmvpmgqpmosydmramqskm rxfbyt--gqpmdepbgmxby--gqp
feb gskpumfrnsgs sby,mlqrmskmgrmepbumpcpetmvrut'km qbeb gpe,mbyumxbop
pcpetmvrut'kmgbnpygkm ryu. pmgrmgqpmuskfnbtmramqskmrlymk.fpesresgt;mgr
vpmuskfpyksydmqskmanbggpespkmber.yu,mgqbgmqpmxbtmxbopmbnnmbffpbemnsop
arrnkm rxfbepumlsgqmqsxkpna!mXtmupbemPxxb,mtr.emrlymdrrumkpykpm r.numyrg
pyu.epmk. qmbmf.fftmlqpymsgm bxpmgrmgqpmfrsygw”

“Smlsnnmkbtmyrmxrepmbvr.gmqsx,”m espumPxxb,m“tr.mg.eympcpetmgqsydmgr
pcsnwmLpmbepmvrgqmfepz.us pu;mtr.mbdbsykg,mSmaremqsx;mbyumlpmqbcpmyr
 qby pmrambdeppsydmgsnnmqpmskmepbnntmqpepw”

“Fepz.us pu!mSmbxmyrgmfepz.us puw”

“V.gmSmbxmcpetmx. q,mbyumlsgqr.gmvpsydmbgmbnnmbkqbxpumramsgwmXtmnrcpmare
XewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymdscpkmxpmbmup supumfepz.us pmsymqskmabcr.ew”

“QpmskmbmfpekrymSmypcpemgqsyomramaerxmrypmxrygq'kmpyumgrmbyrgqpe,”mkbsu
XewmOysdqgnpt,mlsgqmbmupdeppmramcpjbgsry,mlqs qmxbupmPxxbmsxxpusbgpnt
gbnomramkrxpgqsydmpnkp,mgqr.dqmkqpm r.numyrgm rxfepqpyumlqtmqpmkqr.numvp
bydetw

Grmgbopmbmusknsopmgrmbmtr.ydmxby,mryntmvp b.kpmqpmbffpbepumgrmvpmramb
usaapepygmuskfrksgsrymaerxmqsxkpna,mlbkm.ylregqtmgqpmepbnmnsvpebnsgtmra
xsyumlqs qmkqpmlbkmbnlbtkm.kpumgrmb oyrlnpudpmsymqsx;maremlsgqmbnnmgqp
qsdqmrfsysrymramqsxkpna,mlqs qmkqpmqbumragpymnbsumgrmqskm qbedp,mkqpmqbu
ypcpemvparepmarembmxrxpygmk.ffrkpumsgm r.numxbopmqsxm.yz.kgmgrmgqpmxpesg
rambyrgqpew




CRN.XPmSS



 QBFGPEmS


PxxbmbyumQbeespgmqbumvppymlbnosydmgrdpgqpemrypmxreysyd,mbyu,msymPxxb'k
rfsysry,mqbumvppymgbnosydmpyr.dqmramXewmPngrymaremgqbgmubtwmKqpm r.nu
yrgmgqsyomgqbgmQbeespg'kmkrnb pmremqpemrlymksykmeph.sepumxrep;mbyu
kqpmlbkmgqpeparepmsyu.kgesr.kntmdpggsydmesumramgqpmk.vzp gmbkmgqpt
epg.eypu;--v.gmsgmv.ekgmr.gmbdbsymlqpymkqpmgqr.dqgmkqpmqbumk.  ppupu,
byumbagpemkfpbosydmkrxpmgsxpmramlqbgmgqpmfrremx.kgmk.aapemsymlsygpe,mbyu
ep pscsydmyrmrgqpembyklpemgqbymbmcpetmfnbsygscp--“XewmPngrymskmkrmdrru
grmgqpmfrre!”mkqpmar.yumkrxpgqsydmpnkpmx.kgmvpmurypw

Gqptmlpepmz.kgmbfferb qsydmgqpmqr.kpmlqpepmnscpumXekwmbyumXskkmVbgpkw
Kqpmupgpexsypumgrm bnnm.frymgqpxmbyumkppomkbapgtmsymy.xvpekwmGqpepmlbk
bnlbtkmk.aas spygmepbkrymaremk. qmbymbggpygsry;mXekwmbyumXskkmVbgpk
nrcpumgrmvpm bnnpumry,mbyumkqpmoyplmkqpmlbkm ryksupepumvtmgqpmcpetmapl
lqrmfepk.xpumpcpemgrmkppmsxfpeap gsrymsymqpe,mbkmebgqpemypdnsdpygmsy
gqbgmepkfp g,mbyumbkmyrgm rygesv.gsydmlqbgmkqpmr.dqgmgrmgqpmkgr omra
gqpsemk bygtm rxaregkw

KqpmqbumqbumxbytmbmqsygmaerxmXewmOysdqgnptmbyumkrxpmaerxmqpemrlymqpbeg,
bkmgrmqpemupas spy t--v.gmyrypmlpepmph.bnmgrm r.ygpeb gmgqpmfpek.bksry
ramsgkmvpsydmcpetmuskbdeppbvnp,--bmlbkgpmramgsxp--gsepkrxpmlrxpy--byu
bnnmgqpmqreeremramvpsydmsymubydpemramabnnsydmsymlsgqmgqpmkp ryu-ebgpmbyu
gqseu-ebgpmramQsdqv.et,mlqrmlpepm bnnsydmrymgqpxmarempcpe,mbyumgqpeparep
kqpmkpnurxmlpygmypbemgqpxwmV.gmyrlmkqpmxbupmgqpmk.uupymepkrn.gsrymramyrg
fbkksydmgqpsemurremlsgqr.gmdrsydmsy--rvkpecsyd,mbkmkqpmferfrkpumsgmgr
Qbeespg,mgqbg,mbkmlpnnmbkmkqpm r.num bn .nbgp,mgqptmlpepmz.kgmyrlmh.sgp
kbapmaerxmbytmnpggpemaerxmZbypmAbseabjw

Gqpmqr.kpmvpnrydpumgrmfprfnpmsymv.ksypkkwmXekwmbyumXskkmVbgpkmr  .fspu
gqpmueblsyd-errxmanrre;mbyumgqpep,msymgqpmcpetmxrupebgp-ksipumbfbegxpyg,
lqs qmlbkmpcpetmgqsydmgrmgqpx,mgqpmcsksgrekmlpepmxrkgm reusbnntmbyumpcpy
debgpa.nntmlpn rxpu;mgqpmh.spgmypbgmrnumnbut,mlqrmlsgqmqpemoysggsydmlbk
kpbgpumsymgqpmlbexpkgm reype,mlbygsydmpcpymgrmdscpm.fmqpemfnb pmgr
XskkmLrruqr.kp,mbyumqpemxrepmb gscp,mgbnosydmub.dqgpe,mbnxrkgmepbut
grmrcpefrlpemgqpxmlsgqm bepmbyumosyuypkk,mgqbyokmaremgqpsemcsksg,
krns sg.upmaremgqpsemkqrpk,mbyjsr.kmsyh.sespkmbagpemXewmLrruqr.kp'k
qpbngq,m qppea.nm rxx.ys bgsrykmbvr.gmqpemxrgqpe'k,mbyumklppg- bopmaerx
gqpmvpb.apg--“Xekwm rnpmqbumz.kgmvppymgqpep,mz.kgm bnnpumsymaremgpy
xsy.gpk,mbyumqbumvppymkrmdrrumbkmgrmksgmbymqr.emlsgqmgqpx,mbyum_kqp_mqbu
gbopymbmfsp pmram bopmbyumvppymkrmosyumbkmgrmkbtmkqpmnsopumsgmcpetmx. q;
byu,mgqpeparep,mkqpmqrfpumXskkmLrruqr.kpmbyumXskkmKxsgqmlr.numurmgqpx
gqpmabcr.emgrmpbgmbmfsp pmgrrw”

Gqpmxpygsrymramgqpm rnpkmlbkmk.epmgrmvpmarnnrlpumvtmgqbgmramXewmPngryw
Gqpepmlbkmsygsxb tmvpglppymgqpx,mbyumXewm rnpmqbumqpbeumaerxmXewmPngry
ksy pmqskmdrsydmblbtwmPxxbmoyplmlqbgmlbkm rxsyd;mgqptmx.kgmqbcpmgqp
npggpemrcpembdbsy,mbyumkpggnpmqrlmnrydmqpmqbumvppymdryp,mbyumqrlmx. q
qpmlbkmpydbdpumsym rxfbyt,mbyumlqbgmbmabcr.esgpmqpmlbkmlqpepcpemqpmlpyg,
byumqrlma.nnmgqpmXbkgpemramgqpm pepxryspk'mvbnnmqbumvppy;mbyumkqpmlpyg
gqer.dqmsgmcpetmlpnn,mlsgqmbnnmgqpmsygpepkgmbyumbnnmgqpm rxxpyubgsry
gqbgm r.numvpmeph.sksgp,mbyumbnlbtkmf.ggsydmarelbeumgrmfepcpygmQbeespg'k
vpsydmrvnsdpumgrmkbtmbmlreuw

Gqskmkqpmqbumvppymfepfbepumaremlqpymkqpmpygpepumgqpmqr.kp;mv.gmxpbyg,
qbcsydmry pmgbnopumqsxmqbyukrxpntmrcpe,mgrmvpmyrmabegqpemsy rxxrupumvt
bytmger.vnpkrxpmgrfs ,mbyumgrmlbyupembgmnbedpmbxrydkgmbnnmgqpmXskgepkkpk
byumXskkpkmramQsdqv.et,mbyumgqpsem beu-fbegspkwmKqpmqbumyrgmvppy
fepfbepumgrmqbcpmZbypmAbseabjmk.  ppumXewmPngry;mv.gmqpmlbkmb g.bnnt
q.eespumraamvtmXskkmVbgpk,mkqpmz.xfpumblbtmaerxmqsxmbgmnbkgmbve.fgntmgr
gqpm rnpk,mgrm.kqpemsymbmnpggpemaerxmqpemysp pw

“Rq!mtpk--XewmPngry,mSm.yupekgbyu-- pegbsyntmbkmgrmuby syd--Xekwm rnp
lbkmgpnnsydmxpmgqbgmuby sydmbgmgqpmerrxkmbgmVbgqmlbk--Xekwm rnpmlbkmkr
osyumbkmgrmksgmkrxpmgsxpmlsgqm.k,mgbnosydmramZbyp;marembkmkrrymbk
kqpm bxpmsy,mkqpmvpdbymsyh.sesydmbagpemqpe,mZbypmskmkrmcpetmdepbgmb
abcr.esgpmgqpepwmLqpypcpemkqpmskmlsgqm.k,mXekwm rnpmurpkmyrgmoyrlmqrlmgr
kqplmqpemosyuypkkmpyr.dq;mbyumSmx.kgmkbtmgqbgmZbypmupkpecpkmsgmbkmx. q
bkmbytmvrutm bywmByumkrmkqpmvpdbymsyh.sesydmbagpemqpemusep gnt,mkbtsyd,
'Smoyrlmtr.m byyrgmqbcpmqpbeumaerxmZbypmnbgpnt,mvp b.kpmsgmskmyrgmqpe
gsxpmaremlesgsyd;'mbyumlqpymSmsxxpusbgpntmkbsu,m'V.gmsyuppumlpmqbcp,mlp
qbumbmnpggpemgqskmcpetmxreysyd,'mSmurmyrgmoyrlmgqbgmSmpcpemkblmbytmvrut
xrepmk.efesipuwm'Qbcpmtr.,m.frymtr.emqryr.e?'mkbsumkqp;m'lpnn,mgqbgmsk
h.sgpm.ypjfp gpuwmUrmnpgmxpmqpbemlqbgmkqpmkbtkw'”

Pxxb'kmfrnsgpypkkmlbkmbgmqbyumusep gnt,mgrmkbt,mlsgqmkxsnsydmsygpepkg--

“Qbcpmtr.mqpbeumaerxmXskkmAbseabjmkrmnbgpnt?mSmbxmpjgepxpntmqbfftwmS
qrfpmkqpmskmlpnn?”

“Gqbyomtr.wmTr.mbepmkrmosyu!”mepfnspumgqpmqbffsntmup pscpumb.yg,mlqsnp
pbdpentmq.ygsydmaremgqpmnpggpew--“Rq!mqpepmsgmskwmSmlbkmk.epmsgm r.nu
yrgmvpmabemraa;mv.gmSmqbumf.gmxtmq.klsapm.frymsg,mtr.mkpp,mlsgqr.gmvpsyd
blbep,mbyumkrmsgmlbkmh.sgpmqsu,mv.gmSmqbumsgmsymxtmqbyumkrmcpetmnbgpnt
gqbgmSmlbkmbnxrkgmk.epmsgmx.kgmvpmrymgqpmgbvnpwmSmlbkmepbusydmsgmgrmXekw
 rnp,mbyumksy pmkqpmlpygmblbt,mSmlbkmepbusydmsgmbdbsymgrmxtmxrgqpe,mare
sgmskmk. qmbmfnpbk.epmgrmqpe--bmnpggpemaerxmZbyp--gqbgmkqpm bymypcpe
qpbemsgmragpympyr.dq;mkrmSmoyplmsgm r.numyrgmvpmabemraa,mbyumqpepmsgmsk,
ryntmz.kgm.yupemxtmq.klsap--byumksy pmtr.mbepmkrmosyumbkmgrmlskqmgrmqpbe
lqbgmkqpmkbtk;--v.g,masekgmrambnn,mSmepbnntmx.kg,msymz.kgs pmgr
Zbyp,mbfrnrdskpmaremqpemlesgsydmkrmkqregmbmnpggpe--ryntmglrmfbdpkmtr.
kpp--qbeuntmglr--byumsymdpypebnmkqpmasnnkmgqpmlqrnpmfbfpembyum erkkpk
qbnawmXtmxrgqpemragpymlryupekmgqbgmSm bymxbopmsgmr.gmkrmlpnnwmKqpmragpy
kbtk,mlqpymgqpmnpggpemskmasekgmrfpypu,m'Lpnn,mQpggt,myrlmSmgqsyo
tr.mlsnnmvpmf.gmgrmsgmgrmxbopmr.gmbnnmgqbgm qp ope-lreo'--ury'gmtr.,
xb'bx?--ByumgqpymSmgpnnmqpe,mSmbxmk.epmkqpmlr.num rygescpmgrmxbopmsgmr.g
qpekpna,msamkqpmqbumyrvrutmgrmurmsgmaremqpe--pcpetmlreumramsg--Smbxmk.ep
kqpmlr.numfrepmrcpemsgmgsnnmkqpmqbumxbupmr.gmpcpetmlreuwmByu,msyuppu,
gqr.dqmxtmxrgqpe'kmptpkmbepmyrgmkrmdrrumbkmgqptmlpep,mkqpm bymkpp
bxbisydntmlpnnmkgsnn,mgqbyomDru!mlsgqmgqpmqpnfmramkfp gb npkwmSgmskmk. q
bmvnpkksyd!mXtmxrgqpe'kmbepmepbnntmcpetmdrrumsyuppuwmZbypmragpymkbtk,
lqpymkqpmskmqpep,m'Smbxmk.ep,mdebyuxbxb,mtr.mx.kgmqbcpmqbumcpetmkgeryd
ptpkmgrmkppmbkmtr.mur--byumkrmx. qmasypmlreombkmtr.mqbcpmurypmgrr!--S
ryntmlskqmxtmptpkmxbtmnbkgmxpmbkmlpnnw'”

BnnmgqskmkfropympjgepxpntmabkgmrvnsdpumXskkmVbgpkmgrmkgrfmaremvepbgq;
byumPxxbmkbsumkrxpgqsydmcpetm scsnmbvr.gmgqpmpj pnnpy pmramXskk
Abseabj'kmqbyulesgsydw

“Tr.mbepmpjgepxpntmosyu,”mepfnspumXskkmVbgpk,mqsdqntmdebgsaspu;m“tr.mlqr
bepmk. qmbmz.udp,mbyumlesgpmkrmvpb.gsa.nntmtr.ekpnawmSmbxmk.epmgqpepmsk
yrvrut'kmfebskpmgqbgm r.numdscpm.kmkrmx. qmfnpbk.epmbkmXskkmLrruqr.kp'kw
Xtmxrgqpemurpkmyrgmqpbe;mkqpmskmbmnsggnpmupbamtr.moyrlwmXb'bx,”
mbuuepkksydmqpe,m“urmtr.mqpbemlqbgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmskmkrmrvnsdsydmgrmkbt
bvr.gmZbyp'kmqbyulesgsyd?”

ByumPxxbmqbumgqpmbucbygbdpmramqpbesydmqpemrlymksnntm rxfnsxpygmepfpbgpu
gls pmrcpemvparepmgqpmdrrumrnumnbutm r.num rxfepqpyumsgwmKqpmlbk
fryupesyd,msymgqpmxpbylqsnp,m.frymgqpmfrkksvsnsgt,mlsgqr.gmkppxsydmcpet
e.up,mramxbosydmqpempk bfpmaerxmZbypmAbseabj'kmnpggpe,mbyumqbumbnxrkg
epkrncpumrymq.eetsydmblbtmusep gntm.yupemkrxpmknsdqgmpj .kp,mlqpymXskk
Vbgpkmg.eypumgrmqpembdbsymbyumkpsipumqpembggpygsryw

“Xtmxrgqpe'kmupbaypkkmskmcpetmgesansydmtr.mkpp--z.kgmyrgqsydmbgmbnnwmVt
ryntmebsksydmxtmcrs p,mbyumkbtsydmbytmgqsydmglrmremgqeppmgsxpkmrcpe,
kqpmskmk.epmgrmqpbe;mv.gmgqpymkqpmskm.kpumgrmxtmcrs pwmV.gmsgmskmcpet
epxbeobvnpmgqbgmkqpmkqr.numbnlbtkmqpbemZbypmvpggpemgqbymkqpmurpkmxpw
Zbypmkfpbokmkrmuskgsy g!mQrlpcpe,mkqpmlsnnmyrgmasyumqpemdebyuxbxbmbgmbnn
upbapemgqbymkqpmlbkmglrmtpbekmbdr;mlqs qmskmkbtsydmbmdepbgmupbnmbgmxt
xrgqpe'kmgsxpmramnsap--byumsgmepbnntmskma.nnmglrmtpbek,mtr.moyrl,mksy p
kqpmlbkmqpepwmLpmypcpemlpepmkrmnrydmlsgqr.gmkppsydmqpemvparep,mbyumbk
SmlbkmgpnnsydmXekwm rnp,mlpmkqbnnmqbeuntmoyrlmqrlmgrmxbopmpyr.dqmramqpe
yrlw”

“Bepmtr.mpjfp gsydmXskkmAbseabjmqpepmkrry?”

“Rqmtpk;mypjgmlppow”

“Syuppu!--gqbgmx.kgmvpmbmcpetmdepbgmfnpbk.epw”

“Gqbyomtr.wmTr.mbepmcpetmosyuwmTpk,mypjgmlppowmPcpetmvrutmskmkr
k.efesipu;mbyumpcpetmvrutmkbtkmgqpmkbxpmrvnsdsydmgqsydkwmSmbxmk.epmkqp
lsnnmvpmbkmqbfftmgrmkppmqpemaespyukmbgmQsdqv.et,mbkmgqptm bymvpmgrmkpp
qpewmTpk,mAesubtmremKbg.eubt;mkqpm byyrgmkbtmlqs q,mvp b.kpm rnrypn
 bxfvpnnmlsnnmvpmlbygsydmgqpm beesbdpmqsxkpnamrypmramgqrkpmubtkwmKrmcpet
drrumramgqpxmgrmkpyumqpemgqpmlqrnpmlbt!mV.gmgqptmbnlbtkmur,mtr.moyrlwmRq
tpk,mAesubtmremKbg.eubtmypjgwmGqbgmskmlqbgmkqpmlesgpkmbvr.gwmGqbgmsk
gqpmepbkrymramqpemlesgsydmr.gmrame.np,mbkmlpm bnnmsg;mare,msymgqp
 rxxrym r.ekp,mlpmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmqpbeumaerxmqpemvparepmypjgmG.pkubtmre
Lpuypkubtw”

“Tpk,mkrmSmsxbdsypuwmSmlbkmbaebsumgqpepm r.numvpmnsggnpm qby pmramxt
qpbesydmbytmgqsydmramXskkmAbseabjmgr-ubtw”

“Krmrvnsdsydmramtr.!mYr,mlpmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmqpbeu,msamsgmqbumyrgmvppy
aremgqskmfbegs .nbem se .xkgby p,mramqpemvpsydmgrm rxpmqpepmkrmkrrywmXt
xrgqpemskmkrmupnsdqgpu!--aremkqpmskmgrmvpmgqeppmxrygqkmlsgqm.kmbg
npbkgwmGqeppmxrygqk,mkqpmkbtkmkr,mfrksgscpnt,mbkmSmbxmdrsydmgrmqbcpmgqp
fnpbk.epmramepbusydmgrmtr.wmGqpm bkpmsk,mtr.mkpp,mgqbgmgqpm bxfvpnnkmbep
drsydmgrmSepnbyuwmXekwmUsjrymqbkmfpek.bupumqpemabgqpembyumxrgqpemgrm rxp
rcpembyumkppmqpemusep gntwmGqptmqbumyrgmsygpyupumgrmdrmrcpemgsnnmgqp
k.xxpe,mv.gmkqpmskmkrmsxfbgspygmgrmkppmgqpxmbdbsy--aremgsnnmkqpmxbeespu,
nbkgmR grvpe,mkqpmlbkmypcpemblbtmaerxmgqpxmkrmx. qmbkmbmlppo,mlqs qmx.kg
xbopmsgmcpetmkgebydpmgrmvpmsymusaapepygmosydurxk,mSmlbkmdrsydmgrmkbt,
v.gmqrlpcpemusaapepygm r.ygespk,mbyumkrmkqpmlergpmbmcpetm.edpygmnpggpe
grmqpemxrgqpe--remqpemabgqpe,mSmup nbepmSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqs qmsgmlbk,mv.g
lpmkqbnnmkppmfepkpygntmsymZbyp'kmnpggpe--lergpmsymXewmUsjry'kmybxpmbk
lpnnmbkmqpemrly,mgrmfepkkmgqpsem rxsydmrcpemusep gnt,mbyumgqptmlr.nu
dscpmgqpxmgqpmxppgsydmsymU.vnsy,mbyumgbopmgqpxmvb omgrmgqpsem r.yget
kpbg,mVbnt- ebsd,mbmvpb.gsa.nmfnb p,mSmaby twmZbypmqbkmqpbeumbmdepbg
upbnmramsgkmvpb.gt;maerxmXewmUsjry,mSmxpby--Smurmyrgmoyrlmgqbgmkqpmpcpe
qpbeumbvr.gmsgmaerxmbytmvrutmpnkp;mv.gmsgmlbkmcpetmybg.ebn,mtr.moyrl,
gqbgmqpmkqr.numnsopmgrmkfpbomramqskmrlymfnb pmlqsnpmqpmlbkmfbtsydmqsk
buuepkkpk--byumbkmZbypm.kpumgrmvpmcpetmragpymlbnosydmr.gmlsgqmgqpx--are
 rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnnmlpepmcpetmfbegs .nbembvr.gmgqpsemub.dqgpe'k
yrgmlbnosydmr.gmragpymlsgqmryntmXewmUsjry,maremlqs qmSmurmyrgmbgmbnn
vnbxpmgqpx;mram r.ekpmkqpmqpbeumpcpetmgqsydmqpmxsdqgmvpmgpnnsydmXskk
 bxfvpnnmbvr.gmqskmrlymqrxpmsymSepnbyu;mbyumSmgqsyomkqpmlergpm.kmlreu
gqbgmqpmqbumkqplymgqpxmkrxpmueblsydkmramgqpmfnb p,mcsplkmgqbgmqpmqbu
gbopymqsxkpnawmQpmskmbmxrkgmbxsbvnp,m qbexsydmtr.ydmxby,mSmvpnspcpwmZbyp
lbkmh.sgpmnrydsydmgrmdrmgrmSepnbyu,maerxmqskmb  r.ygmramgqsydkw”

Bgmgqskmxrxpyg,mbymsydpysr.kmbyumbysxbgsydmk.kfs srympygpesydmPxxb'k
vebsymlsgqmepdbeumgrmZbypmAbseabj,mgqskm qbexsydmXewmUsjry,mbyumgqp
yrgmdrsydmgrmSepnbyu,mkqpmkbsu,mlsgqmgqpmsyksusr.kmupksdymramabegqpe
usk rcpet,

“Tr.mx.kgmappnmsgmcpetmareg.ybgpmgqbgmXskkmAbseabjmkqr.numvpmbnnrlpumgr
 rxpmgrmtr.mbgmk. qmbmgsxpwm ryksupesydmgqpmcpetmfbegs .nbemaespyukqsf
vpglppymqpembyumXekwmUsjry,mtr.m r.numqbeuntmqbcpmpjfp gpumqpemgrmvp
pj .kpumaerxmb  rxfbytsydm rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnnw”

“Cpetmge.p,mcpetmge.p,msyuppuwmGqpmcpetmgqsydmgqbgmlpmqbcpmbnlbtkmvppy
ebgqpembaebsumra;maremlpmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmnsopumgrmqbcpmqpembgmk. qmb
uskgby pmaerxm.k,maremxrygqkmgrdpgqpe--yrgmbvnpmgrm rxpmsambytmgqsydmlbk
grmqbffpywmV.gmtr.mkpp,mpcpetmgqsydmg.eykmr.gmaremgqpmvpkgwmGqptmlbyg
qpem(XewmbyumXekwmUsjry)mpj pkkscpntmgrm rxpmrcpemlsgqm rnrypnmbyumXekw
 bxfvpnn;mh.sgpmupfpyum.frymsg;myrgqsydm bymvpmxrepmosyumremfepkksyd
gqbymgqpsem_zrsyg_msycsgbgsry,mZbypmkbtk,mbkmtr.mlsnnmqpbemfepkpygnt;
XewmUsjrymurpkmyrgmkppxmsymgqpmnpbkgmvb olbeumsymbytmbggpygsrywmQpmsk
bmxrkgm qbexsydmtr.ydmxbywmPcpemksy pmgqpmkpecs pmqpmepyupepumZbypmbg
Lptxr.gq,mlqpymgqptmlpepmr.gmsymgqbgmfbegtmrymgqpmlbgpe,mbyumkqp,mvtmgqp
k.uupymlqsensydmer.yumramkrxpgqsydmremrgqpembxrydmgqpmkbsnk,mlr.numqbcp
vppymubkqpumsygrmgqpmkpbmbgmry p,mbyumb g.bnntmlbkmbnnmv.gmdryp,msamqp
qbumyrg,mlsgqmgqpmdepbgpkgmfepkpy pmramxsyu,m b.dqgmqrnumramqpemqbvsg--
(Sm bymypcpemgqsyomramsgmlsgqr.gmgepxvnsyd!)--V.gmpcpemksy pmlpmqbumgqp
qskgretmramgqbgmubt,mSmqbcpmvppymkrmaryumramXewmUsjry!”

“V.g,msymkfsgpmrambnnmqpemaespyuk'm.edpy t,mbyumqpemrlymlskqmramkppsyd
Sepnbyu,mXskkmAbseabjmfepapekmupcrgsydmgqpmgsxpmgrmtr.mbyumXekwmVbgpk?”

“Tpk--pygsepntmqpemrlymursyd,mpygsepntmqpemrlym qrs p;mbyum rnrypn
byumXekwm bxfvpnnmgqsyomkqpmurpkmh.sgpmesdqg,mz.kgmlqbgmgqptmkqr.nu
ep rxxpyu;mbyumsyuppumgqptmfbegs .nbentm_lskq_mqpemgrmgetmqpemybgscp
bse,mbkmkqpmqbkmyrgmvppymh.sgpmkrmlpnnmbkm.k.bnmnbgpntw”

“Smbxm ry peypumgrmqpbemramsgwmSmgqsyomgqptmz.udpmlskpntwmV.gmXekw
Usjrymx.kgmvpmcpetmx. qmuskbffrsygpuwmXekwmUsjry,mSm.yupekgbyu,mqbk
yrmepxbeobvnpmupdeppmramfpekrybnmvpb.gt;mskmyrg,mvtmbytmxpbyk,mgrmvp
 rxfbepumlsgqmXskkmAbseabjw”

“Rq!myrwmTr.mbepmcpetmrvnsdsydmgrmkbtmk. qmgqsydk--v.gm pegbsyntmyrgw
Gqpepmskmyrm rxfbeskrymvpglppymgqpxwmXskkm bxfvpnnmbnlbtkmlbkmbvkrn.gpnt
fnbsy--v.gmpjgepxpntmpnpdbygmbyumbxsbvnpw”

“Tpk,mgqbgmram r.ekpw”

“Zbypm b.dqgmbmvbum rnu,mfrremgqsyd!mkrmnrydmbdrmbkmgqpm7gqmramYrcpxvpe,
(bkmSmbxmdrsydmgrmepbumgrmtr.,)mbyumqbkmypcpemvppymlpnnmksy pwmBmnryd
gsxp,mskmyrgmsg,marembm rnumgrmqbydm.frymqpe?mKqpmypcpemxpygsrypu
sgmvparep,mvp b.kpmkqpmlr.numyrgmbnbexm.kwmZ.kgmnsopmqpe!mkr
 ryksupebgp!--V.gmqrlpcpe,mkqpmskmkrmabemaerxmlpnn,mgqbgmqpemosyu
aespyukmgqpm bxfvpnnkmgqsyomkqpmqbumvpggpem rxpmqrxp,mbyumgetmbymbse
gqbgmbnlbtkmbdeppkmlsgqmqpe;mbyumgqptmqbcpmyrmur.vgmgqbgmgqeppmremar.e
xrygqkmbgmQsdqv.etmlsnnmpygsepntm .epmqpe--byumsgmskm pegbsyntmbmdepbg
upbnmvpggpemgqbgmkqpmkqr.num rxpmqpep,mgqbymdrmgrmSepnbyu,msamkqpmsk
.ylpnnwmYrvrutm r.numy.ekpmqpe,mbkmlpmkqr.numurw”

“Sgmbffpbekmgrmxpmgqpmxrkgmupksebvnpmbeebydpxpygmsymgqpmlrenuw”

“Byumkrmkqpmskmgrm rxpmgrm.kmypjgmAesubtmremKbg.eubt,mbyumgqpm bxfvpnnk
npbcpmgrlymsymgqpsemlbtmgrmQrntqpbumgqpmXryubtmarnnrlsyd--bkmtr.mlsnn
asyumaerxmZbyp'kmnpggpewmKrmk.uupy!--Tr.mxbtmd.pkk,mupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,
lqbgmbman.eetmsgmqbkmgqerlymxpmsy!mSamsgmlbkmyrgmaremgqpmueblvb omra
qpemsnnypkk--v.gmSmbxmbaebsumlpmx.kgmpjfp gmgrmkppmqpemderlymgqsy,mbyu
nrrosydmcpetmfrrentwmSmx.kgmgpnnmtr.mlqbgmbym.yn. otmgqsydmqbffpypumgr
xp,mbkmgrmgqbgwmSmbnlbtkmxbopmbmfrsygmramepbusydmZbyp'kmnpggpekmgqer.dq
grmxtkpnamasekg,mvparepmSmepbumgqpxmbnr.umgrmxtmxrgqpe,mtr.moyrl,mare
apbemramgqpepmvpsydmbytmgqsydmsymgqpxmgrmuskgepkkmqpewmZbypmupksepumxp
grmurmsg,mkrmSmbnlbtkmur:mbyumkrmSmvpdbymgr-ubtmlsgqmxtm.k.bnm b.gsry;
v.gmyrmkrrypemusumSm rxpmgrmgqpmxpygsrymramqpemvpsydm.ylpnn,mgqbymS
v.ekgmr.g,mh.sgpmaesdqgpypu,mlsgqm'Vnpkkmxp!mfrremZbypmskmsnn!'--lqs q
xtmxrgqpe,mvpsydmrymgqpmlbg q,mqpbeumuskgsy gnt,mbyumlbkmkbuntmbnbexpu
bgwmQrlpcpe,mlqpymSmepbumry,mSmar.yumsgmlbkmyrgmypbemkrmvbumbkmSmqbu
aby spumbgmasekg;mbyumSmxbopmkrmnsdqgmramsgmyrlmgrmqpe,mgqbgmkqpmurpk
yrgmgqsyomx. qmbvr.gmsgwmV.gmSm byyrgmsxbdsypmqrlmSm r.numvpmkrmraamxt
d.beuwmSamZbypmurpkmyrgmdpgmlpnnmkrry,mlpmlsnnm bnnmsymXewmFpeetwmGqp
pjfpykpmkqbnnmyrgmvpmgqr.dqgmra;mbyumgqr.dqmqpmskmkrmnsvpebn,mbyumkr
aryumramZbypmgqbgmSmubepmkbtmqpmlr.numyrgmxpbymgrm qbedpmbytmgqsydmare
bggpyuby p,mlpm r.numyrgmk.aapemsgmgrmvpmkr,mtr.moyrlwmQpmqbkmbmlsapmbyu
abxsntmgrmxbsygbsy,mbyumskmyrgmgrmvpmdscsydmblbtmqskmgsxpwmLpnn,myrlmS
qbcpmz.kgmdscpymtr.mbmqsygmramlqbgmZbypmlesgpkmbvr.g,mlpmlsnnmg.eymgr
qpemnpggpe,mbyumSmbxmk.epmkqpmgpnnkmqpemrlymkgretmbmdepbgmupbnmvpggpe
gqbymSm bymgpnnmsgmaremqpew”

“Smbxmbaebsumlpmx.kgmvpme.yysydmblbt,”mkbsumPxxb,mdnby sydmbgmQbeespg,
byumvpdsyysydmgrmeskp--“Xtmabgqpemlsnnmvpmpjfp gsydm.kwmSmqbumyr
sygpygsry,mSmgqr.dqgmSmqbumyrmfrlpemramkgbtsydmxrepmgqbymascpmxsy.gpk,
lqpymSmasekgmpygpepumgqpmqr.kpwmSmxpepntm bnnpu,mvp b.kpmSmlr.numyrg
fbkkmgqpmurremlsgqr.gmsyh.sesydmbagpemXekwmVbgpk;mv.gmSmqbcpmvppymkr
fnpbkbygntmupgbsypu!mYrl,mqrlpcpe,mlpmx.kgmlskqmtr.mbyumXekwmVbgpkmdrru
xreysydw”

Byumyrgmbnnmgqbgm r.numvpm.edpumgrmupgbsymqpemk.  ppupuwmKqpmepdbsypu
gqpmkgeppg--qbfftmsymgqsk,mgqbgmgqr.dqmx. qmqbumvppymare pumrymqpe
bdbsykgmqpemlsnn,mgqr.dqmkqpmqbumsymab gmqpbeumgqpmlqrnpmk.vkgby pmra
ZbypmAbseabj'kmnpggpe,mkqpmqbumvppymbvnpmgrmpk bfpmgqpmnpggpemsgkpnaw



 QBFGPEmSS


ZbypmAbseabjmlbkmbymrefqby,mgqpmryntm qsnumramXekwmVbgpk'kmtr.ydpkg
ub.dqgpew

GqpmxbeesbdpmramNsp.gwmAbseabjmramgqpm----epdsxpygmramsyabyget,
byumXskkmZbypmVbgpk,mqbumqbumsgkmubtmramabxpmbyumfnpbk.ep,mqrfp
byumsygpepkg;mv.gmyrgqsydmyrlmepxbsypumramsg,mkbcpmgqpmxpnby qrnt
epxpxveby pmramqsxmutsydmsymb gsrymbverbu--ramqskmlsurlmksyosydm.yupe
 ryk.xfgsrymbyumdespamkrrymbagpelbeuk--byumgqskmdsenw

VtmvsegqmkqpmvpnrydpumgrmQsdqv.et:mbyumlqpymbgmgqeppmtpbekmrnu,mry
nrksydmqpemxrgqpe,mkqpmvp bxpmgqpmferfpegt,mgqpm qbedp,mgqpm rykrnbgsry,
gqpmar.yunsydmramqpemdebyuxrgqpembyumb.yg,mgqpepmqbumkppxpumpcpet
fervbvsnsgtmramqpemvpsydmfpexbypygntmasjpumgqpep;mramqpemvpsydmgb.dqg
ryntmlqbgmcpetmnsxsgpumxpbykm r.num rxxbyu,mbyumderlsydm.fmlsgqmyr
bucbygbdpkmram ryypjsrymremsxfercpxpyg,mgrmvpmpydebagpumrymlqbg
ybg.epmqbumdscpymqpemsymbmfnpbksydmfpekry,mdrrum.yupekgbyusyd,mbyu
lbex-qpbegpu,mlpnn-xpbysydmepnbgsrykw

V.gmgqpm rxfbkksrybgpmappnsydkmrambmaespyumramqpemabgqpemdbcpmbm qbydp
grmqpemupkgsytwmGqskmlbkm rnrypnm bxfvpnn,mlqrmqbumcpetmqsdqntmepdbeupu
Abseabj,mbkmbympj pnnpygmraas pembyumxrkgmupkpecsydmtr.ydmxby;mbyu
abegqpe,mqbumvppymsyupvgpumgrmqsxmaremk. qmbggpygsryk,mu.esydmbmkpcpep
 bxf-apcpe,mbkmqpmvpnspcpumqbumkbcpumqskmnsapwmGqpkpmlpepm nbsxkmlqs q
qpmusumyrgmnpbeymgrmrcpenrro,mgqr.dqmkrxpmtpbekmfbkkpumblbtmaerxmgqp
upbgqmramfrremAbseabj,mvparepmqskmrlymepg.eymgrmPydnbyumf.gmbytmgqsydmsy
qskmfrlpewmLqpymqpmusumepg.ey,mqpmkr.dqgmr.gmgqpm qsnumbyumgrromyrgs p
ramqpewmQpmlbkmbmxbeespumxby,mlsgqmryntmrypmnscsydm qsnu,mbmdsen,mbvr.g
Zbyp'kmbdp:mbyumZbypmvp bxpmgqpsemd.pkg,mfbtsydmgqpxmnrydmcsksgkmbyu
derlsydmbmabcr.esgpmlsgqmbnn;mbyumvparepmkqpmlbkmysypmtpbekmrnu,mqsk
ub.dqgpe'kmdepbgmaryuypkkmaremqpe,mbyumqskmrlymlskqmramvpsydmbmepbn
aespyu,m.ysgpumgrmferu. pmbymraapemaerxm rnrypnm bxfvpnnmram.yupegbosyd
gqpmlqrnpm qbedpmramqpempu. bgsrywmSgmlbkmb  pfgpu;mbyumaerxmgqbgmfpesru
Zbypmqbumvpnrydpumgrm rnrypnm bxfvpnn'kmabxsnt,mbyumqbumnscpumlsgqmgqpx
pygsepnt,mryntmcsksgsydmqpemdebyuxrgqpemaerxmgsxpmgrmgsxpw

Gqpmfnbymlbkmgqbgmkqpmkqr.numvpmver.dqgm.fmarempu. bgsydmrgqpek;mgqp
cpetmaplmq.yuepumfr.yukmlqs qmkqpmsyqpesgpumaerxmqpemabgqpemxbosyd
syupfpyupy pmsxfrkksvnpwmGrmfercsupmaremqpemrgqpelskpmlbkmr.gmram rnrypn
 bxfvpnn'kmfrlpe;maremgqr.dqmqskmsy rxp,mvtmfbtmbyumbffrsygxpygk,mlbk
qbyukrxp,mqskmareg.ypmlbkmxrupebgpmbyumx.kgmvpmbnnmqskmub.dqgpe'k;
v.g,mvtmdscsydmqpembympu. bgsry,mqpmqrfpumgrmvpmk.ffntsydmgqpmxpbykmra
epkfp gbvnpmk.vkskgpy pmqpepbagpew

K. qmlbkmZbypmAbseabj'kmqskgretwmKqpmqbumabnnpymsygrmdrrumqbyuk,moyrly
yrgqsydmv.gmosyuypkkmaerxmgqpm bxfvpnnk,mbyumvppymdscpymbympj pnnpyg
pu. bgsrywmNscsydm rykgbygntmlsgqmesdqg-xsyupumbyumlpnn-syarexpumfprfnp,
qpemqpbegmbyum.yupekgbyusydmqbumep pscpumpcpetmbucbygbdpmramusk sfnsyp
byum .ng.ep;mbyum rnrypnm bxfvpnn'kmepksupy pmvpsydmsymNryury,mpcpet
nsdqgpemgbnpygmqbumvppymurypma.nnmz.kgs pmgr,mvtmgqpmbggpyuby pmra
asekg-ebgpmxbkgpekwmQpemuskfrksgsrymbyumbvsnsgspkmlpepmph.bnntmlregqt
rambnnmgqbgmaespyukqsfm r.numur;mbyumbgmpsdqgppymremysypgppymkqpmlbk,
bkmabembkmk. qmbympbentmbdpm bymvpmh.bnsaspumaremgqpm bepmram qsnuepy,
a.nntm rxfpgpygmgrmgqpmraas pmramsykge. gsrymqpekpna;mv.gmkqpmlbkmgrr
x. qmvpnrcpumgrmvpmfbegpumlsgqwmYpsgqpemabgqpemyremxrgqpem r.numferxrgp,
byumgqpmub.dqgpem r.numyrgmpyu.epmsgwmGqpmpcsnmubtmlbkmf.gmraawmSgmlbk
pbktmgrmup supmgqbgmkqpmlbkmkgsnnmgrrmtr.yd;mbyumZbypmepxbsypumlsgq
gqpx,mkqbesyd,mbkmbyrgqpemub.dqgpe,msymbnnmgqpmebgsrybnmfnpbk.epkmra
bympnpdbygmkr spgt,mbyumbmz.us sr.kmxsjg.epmramqrxpmbyumbx.kpxpyg,mlsgq
ryntmgqpmueblvb omramgqpma.g.ep,mgqpmkrvpesydmk.ddpkgsrykmramqpemrly
drrum.yupekgbyusydmgrmepxsyumqpemgqbgmbnnmgqskmxsdqgmkrrymvpmrcpew

Gqpmbaap gsrymramgqpmlqrnpmabxsnt,mgqpmlbexmbggb qxpygmramXskk
 bxfvpnnmsymfbegs .nbe,mlbkmgqpmxrepmqryr.ebvnpmgrmpb qmfbegtmaerx
gqpm se .xkgby pmramZbyp'kmup supumk.fpesresgtmvrgqmsymvpb.gtmbyu
b h.sepxpygkwmGqbgmybg.epmqbumdscpymsgmsymapbg.epm r.numyrgmvpm.ykppy
vtmgqpmtr.ydmlrxby,myrem r.numqpemqsdqpemfrlpekmramxsyumvpm.yapngmvtmgqp
fbepygkwmGqptm rygsy.pumgrdpgqpemlsgqm.ybvbgpumepdbeumqrlpcpe,mgsnnmgqp
xbeesbdpmramXskkm bxfvpnn,mlqrmvtmgqbgm qby p,mgqbgmn. omlqs qmkrmragpy
upaspkmbygs sfbgsrymsymxbgesxrysbnmbaabsek,mdscsydmbggeb gsrymgrmlqbgmsk
xrupebgpmebgqpemgqbymgrmlqbgmskmk.fpesre,mpydbdpumgqpmbaap gsrykmra
XewmUsjry,mbmtr.ydmxby,mes qmbyumbdeppbvnp,mbnxrkgmbkmkrrymbkmgqptmlpep
b h.bsygpu;mbyumlbkmpnsdsvntmbyumqbffsntmkpggnpu,mlqsnpmZbypmAbseabjmqbu
tpgmqpemvepbumgrmpbeyw

Gqskmpcpygmqbumcpetmnbgpntmgbopymfnb p;mgrrmnbgpntmarembytmgqsydmgrmvp
tpgmbggpxfgpumvtmqpemnpkkmareg.ybgpmaespyumgrlbeukmpygpesydmrymqpemfbgq
ramu.gt;mgqr.dqmkqpmqbumyrlmepb qpumgqpmbdpmlqs qmqpemrlymz.udxpygmqbu
asjpumrymaremvpdsyysydwmKqpmqbumnrydmepkrncpumgqbgmryp-byu-glpygt
kqr.numvpmgqpmfpesruwmLsgqmgqpmaregsg.upmrambmupcrgpumyrcsgsbgp,mkqpmqbu
epkrncpumbgmryp-byu-glpygtmgrm rxfnpgpmgqpmkb esas p,mbyumepgsepmaerx
bnnmgqpmfnpbk.epkmramnsap,mramebgsrybnmsygpe r.ekp,mph.bnmkr spgt,mfpb p
byumqrfp,mgrmfpyby pmbyumxregsas bgsrymarempcpew

Gqpmdrrumkpykpmram rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnnm r.numyrgmrffrkpmk. q
bmepkrn.gsry,mgqr.dqmgqpsemappnsydkmusuwmBkmnrydmbkmgqptmnscpu,myr
pjpegsrykmlr.numvpmyp pkkbet,mgqpsemqrxpmxsdqgmvpmqpekmarempcpe;mbyumare
gqpsemrlym rxaregmgqptmlr.numqbcpmepgbsypumqpemlqrnnt;mv.gmgqskmlr.nu
vpmkpnaskqypkk:--lqbgmx.kgmvpmbgmnbkg,mqbumvpggpemvpmkrrywmFpeqbfkmgqpt
vpdbymgrmappnmsgmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymosyupembyumlskpemgrmqbcpmepkskgpumgqp
gpxfgbgsrymrambytmupnbt,mbyumkfbepumqpemaerxmbmgbkgpmramk. qmpyzrtxpygk
rampbkpmbyumnpsk.epmbkmx.kgmyrlmvpmepnsyh.skqpuwmKgsnn,mqrlpcpe,
baap gsrymlbkmdnbumgrm bg qmbgmbytmepbkrybvnpmpj .kpmaremyrgmq.eetsyd
rymgqpmlepg qpumxrxpygwmKqpmqbumypcpemvppymh.sgpmlpnnmksy pmgqpmgsxpmra
gqpsemub.dqgpe'kmxbeesbdp;mbyumgsnnmkqpmkqr.numqbcpm rxfnpgpntmep rcpepu
qpem.k.bnmkgepydgq,mgqptmx.kgmarevsumqpempydbdsydmsymu.gspk,mlqs q,mkr
abemaerxmvpsydm rxfbgsvnpmlsgqmbmlpbopypumaebxpmbyumcbetsydmkfsesgk,
kppxpu,m.yupemgqpmxrkgmabcr.ebvnpm se .xkgby pk,mgrmeph.sepmkrxpgqsyd
xrepmgqbymq.xbymfpeap gsrymramvrutmbyumxsyumgrmvpmusk qbedpumlsgq
grnpebvnpm rxaregw

Lsgqmepdbeumgrmqpemyrgmb  rxfbytsydmgqpxmgrmSepnbyu,mqpemb  r.ygmgrmqpe
b.ygm rygbsypumyrgqsydmv.gmge.gq,mgqr.dqmgqpepmxsdqgmvpmkrxpmge.gqk
yrgmgrnuwmSgmlbkmqpemrlym qrs pmgrmdscpmgqpmgsxpmramgqpsembvkpy pmgr
Qsdqv.et;mgrmkfpyu,mfpeqbfk,mqpemnbkgmxrygqkmramfpeap gmnsvpegtmlsgq
gqrkpmosyumepnbgsrykmgrmlqrxmkqpmlbkmkrmcpetmupbe:mbyumgqpm bxfvpnnk,
lqbgpcpemxsdqgmvpmgqpsemxrgscpmremxrgscpk,mlqpgqpemksydnp,mremur.vnp,mre
gepvnp,mdbcpmgqpmbeebydpxpygmgqpsemepbutmkby gsry,mbyumkbsu,mgqbgmgqpt
upfpyupumxrepmrymbmaplmxrygqkmkfpygmsymqpemybgscpmbse,maremgqpmep rcpet
ramqpemqpbngq,mgqbymrymbytmgqsydmpnkpwm pegbsymsgmlbkmgqbgmkqpmlbkmgr
 rxp;mbyumgqbgmQsdqv.et,msykgpbumramlpn rxsydmgqbgmfpeap gmyrcpngtmlqs q
qbumvppymkrmnrydmferxskpumsg--XewmAebyom q.e qsnn--x.kgmf.gm.fmaremgqp
fepkpygmlsgqmZbypmAbseabj,mlqrm r.numvesydmryntmgqpmaepkqypkkmrambmglr
tpbek'mbvkpy pw

Pxxbmlbkmkreet;--grmqbcpmgrmfbtm scsnsgspkmgrmbmfpekrymkqpmusumyrgmnsop
gqer.dqmgqeppmnrydmxrygqk!--grmvpmbnlbtkmursydmxrepmgqbymkqpmlskqpu,
byumnpkkmgqbymkqpmr.dqg!mLqtmkqpmusumyrgmnsopmZbypmAbseabjmxsdqgmvpmb
usaas .ngmh.pkgsrymgrmbyklpe;mXewmOysdqgnptmqbumry pmgrnumqpemsgmlbk
vp b.kpmkqpmkblmsymqpemgqpmepbnntmb  rxfnskqpumtr.ydmlrxby,mlqs qmkqp
lbygpumgrmvpmgqr.dqgmqpekpna;mbyumgqr.dqmgqpmb  .kbgsrymqbumvppympbdpent
epa.gpumbgmgqpmgsxp,mgqpepmlpepmxrxpygkmramkpna-pjbxsybgsrymsymlqs q
qpem ryk spy pm r.numyrgmh.sgpmb h.sgmqpewmV.gm“kqpm r.numypcpemdpg
b h.bsygpumlsgqmqpe:mkqpmusumyrgmoyrlmqrlmsgmlbk,mv.gmgqpepmlbkmk. q
 rnuypkkmbyumepkpecp--k. qmbffbepygmsyusaapepy pmlqpgqpemkqpmfnpbkpumre
yrg--byumgqpy,mqpemb.ygmlbkmk. qmbympgpeybnmgbnope!--byumkqpmlbkmxbup
k. qmbma.kkmlsgqmvtmpcpetmvrut!--byumsgmqbumvppymbnlbtkmsxbdsypumgqbg
gqptmlpepmgrmvpmkrmsygsxbgp--vp b.kpmgqpsembdpkmlpepmgqpmkbxp,mpcpet
vrutmqbumk.ffrkpumgqptmx.kgmvpmkrmaryumrampb qmrgqpew”mGqpkpmlpepmqpe
epbkryk--kqpmqbumyrmvpggpew

Sgmlbkmbmusknsopmkrmnsggnpmz.kg--pcpetmsxf.gpumab.ngmlbkmkrmxbdysaspu
vtmaby t,mgqbgmkqpmypcpemkblmZbypmAbseabjmgqpmasekgmgsxpmbagpembyt
 ryksupebvnpmbvkpy p,mlsgqr.gmappnsydmgqbgmkqpmqbumsyz.epumqpe;mbyu
yrl,mlqpymgqpmu.pmcsksgmlbkmfbsu,mrymqpembeescbn,mbagpembmglrmtpbek'
sygpecbn,mkqpmlbkmfbegs .nbentmkge. omlsgqmgqpmcpetmbffpbeby pmbyu
xbyypek,mlqs qmaremgqrkpmglrmlqrnpmtpbekmkqpmqbumvppymupfep sbgsydwmZbyp
Abseabjmlbkmcpetmpnpdbyg,mepxbeobvntmpnpdbyg;mbyumkqpmqbumqpekpnamgqp
qsdqpkgmcbn.pmarempnpdby pwmQpemqpsdqgmlbkmfepggt,mz.kgmk. qmbkmbnxrkg
pcpetmvrutmlr.numgqsyomgbnn,mbyumyrvrutm r.numgqsyomcpetmgbnn;mqpe
asd.epmfbegs .nbentmdeb pa.n;mqpemksipmbmxrkgmvp rxsydmxpus.x,mvpglppy
abgmbyumgqsy,mgqr.dqmbmknsdqgmbffpbeby pmramsnn-qpbngqmkppxpumgrmfrsyg
r.gmgqpmnsopnspkgmpcsnmramgqpmglrwmPxxbm r.numyrgmv.gmappnmbnnmgqsk;mbyu
gqpy,mqpemab p--qpemapbg.epk--gqpepmlbkmxrepmvpb.gtmsymgqpxmbngrdpgqpe
gqbymkqpmqbumepxpxvpepu;msgmlbkmyrgmepd.nbe,mv.gmsgmlbkmcpetmfnpbksyd
vpb.gtwmQpemptpk,mbmuppfmdept,mlsgqmubeomptp-nbkqpkmbyumptpverlk,mqbu
ypcpemvppymupyspumgqpsemfebskp;mv.gmgqpmkosy,mlqs qmkqpmqbumvppym.kpumgr
 bcsnmbg,mbkmlbygsydm rnr.e,mqbumbm npbeypkkmbyumupns b tmlqs qmepbnnt
yppupumyrma.nnpemvnrrxwmSgmlbkmbmkgtnpmramvpb.gt,mramlqs qmpnpdby pmlbk
gqpmepsdysydm qbeb gpe,mbyumbkmk. q,mkqpmx.kg,msymqryr.e,mvtmbnnmqpe
fesy sfnpk,mbuxsepmsg:--pnpdby p,mlqs q,mlqpgqpemramfpekrymremramxsyu,
kqpmkblmkrmnsggnpmsymQsdqv.etwmGqpep,myrgmgrmvpmc.ndbe,mlbkmuskgsy gsry,
byumxpesgw

Symkqreg,mkqpmkbg,mu.esydmgqpmasekgmcsksg,mnrrosydmbgmZbypmAbseabjmlsgq
glrarnum rxfnb py t;mgqpmkpykpmramfnpbk.epmbyumgqpmkpykpmramepyupesyd
z.kgs p,mbyumlbkmupgpexsysydmgqbgmkqpmlr.numusknsopmqpemyrmnrydpewmLqpy
kqpmgrromsymqpemqskgret,msyuppu,mqpemksg.bgsry,mbkmlpnnmbkmqpemvpb.gt;
lqpymkqpm ryksupepumlqbgmbnnmgqskmpnpdby pmlbkmupkgsypumgr,mlqbgmkqpmlbk
drsydmgrmksyomaerx,mqrlmkqpmlbkmdrsydmgrmnscp,msgmkppxpumsxfrkksvnp
grmappnmbytmgqsydmv.gm rxfbkksrymbyumepkfp g;mpkfp sbnnt,msamgrmpcpet
lpnn-oyrlymfbegs .nbempygsgnsydmqpemgrmsygpepkg,mlpepmbuupumgqpmqsdqnt
fervbvnpm se .xkgby pmrambymbggb qxpygmgrmXewmUsjry,mlqs qmkqpmqbu
krmybg.ebnntmkgbegpumgrmqpekpnawmSymgqbgm bkp,myrgqsydm r.numvpmxrep
fsgsbvnpmremxrepmqryr.ebvnpmgqbymgqpmkb esas pkmkqpmqbumepkrncpumryw
Pxxbmlbkmcpetmlsnnsydmyrlmgrmb h.sgmqpemramqbcsydmkpu. pumXewmUsjry'k
b gsrykmaerxmqskmlsap,mremrambytmgqsydmxsk qspcr.kmlqs qmqpemsxbdsybgsry
qbumk.ddpkgpumbgmasekgwmSamsgmlpepmnrcp,msgmxsdqgmvpmksxfnp,mksydnp,
k.  pkknpkkmnrcpmrymqpemksupmbnrypwmKqpmxsdqgmqbcpmvppym.y ryk sr.knt
k. osydmsymgqpmkbumfrskry,mlqsnpmbmkqbepemramqskm rycpekbgsrymlsgqmqpe
aespyu;mbyumaerxmgqpmvpkg,mgqpmf.epkgmramxrgscpk,mxsdqgmyrlmvp
upytsydmqpekpnamgqskmcsksgmgrmSepnbyu,mbyumepkrncsydmgrmuscsupmqpekpna
paap g.bnntmaerxmqsxmbyumqskm ryypjsrykmvtmkrrymvpdsyysydmqpem beppemra
nbvresr.kmu.gtw

.frymgqpmlqrnp,mPxxbmnpagmqpemlsgqmk. qmkragpypu,m qbesgbvnpmappnsydk,
bkmxbupmqpemnrromber.yumsymlbnosydmqrxp,mbyumnbxpygmgqbgmQsdqv.et
baareupumyrmtr.ydmxbymlregqtmramdscsydmqpemsyupfpyupy p;myrvrutmgqbgmkqp
 r.numlskqmgrmk qpxpmbvr.gmaremqpew

Gqpkpmlpepm qbexsydmappnsydk--v.gmyrgmnbkgsydwmVparepmkqpmqbum rxxsggpu
qpekpnamvtmbytmf.vns mferapkksrymrampgpeybnmaespyukqsfmaremZbypmAbseabj,
remurypmxrepmgrlbeukmbmep bygbgsrymramfbkgmfepz.us pkmbyumpeerek,mgqby
kbtsydmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt,m“Kqpm pegbsyntmskmqbyukrxp;mkqpmskmvpggpemgqby
qbyukrxp!”mZbypmqbumkfpygmbympcpysydmbgmQbegaspnumlsgqmqpemdebyuxrgqpe
byumb.yg,mbyumpcpetmgqsydmlbkmepnbfksydmx. qmsygrmsgkm.k.bnmkgbgpw
Arexpemfercr bgsrykmepbffpbepuwmGqpmb.ygmlbkmbkmgsepkrxpmbkmpcpe;mxrep
gsepkrxp,mvp b.kpmbyjspgtmaremqpemqpbngqmlbkmyrlmbuupumgrmbuxsebgsry
ramqpemfrlpek;mbyumgqptmqbumgrmnskgpymgrmgqpmupk esfgsrymrampjb gntmqrl
nsggnpmvepbumbyumv.ggpemkqpmbgpmaremvepboabkg,mbyumqrlmkxbnnmbmkns p
ramx.ggrymaremusyype,mbkmlpnnmbkmgrmkppmpjqsvsgsrykmramyplm bfkmbyumypl
lreovbdkmaremqpemxrgqpembyumqpekpna;mbyumZbyp'kmraapy pkmerkpmbdbsyw
Gqptmqbumx.ks ;mPxxbmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmfnbt;mbyumgqpmgqbyokmbyumfebskp
lqs qmyp pkkbesntmarnnrlpumbffpbepumgrmqpembymbaap gbgsrymram byur.e,mby
bsemramdepbgypkk,mxpbysydmryntmgrmkqplmraamsymqsdqpemkgtnpmqpemrlymcpet
k.fpesremfpearexby pwmKqpmlbk,mvpksupk,mlqs qmlbkmgqpmlrekgmrambnn,mkr
 rnu,mkrm b.gsr.k!mGqpepmlbkmyrmdpggsydmbgmqpemepbnmrfsysrywmLebfgm.fmsy
bm nrbomramfrnsgpypkk,mkqpmkppxpumupgpexsypumgrmqbibeumyrgqsydwmKqpmlbk
uskd.kgsydnt,mlbkmk.kfs sr.kntmepkpecpuw

Sambytmgqsydm r.numvpmxrep,mlqpepmbnnmlbkmxrkg,mkqpmlbkmxrepmepkpecpumry
gqpmk.vzp gmramLptxr.gqmbyumgqpmUsjrykmgqbymbytmgqsydwmKqpmkppxpumvpyg
rymdscsydmyrmepbnmsyksdqgmsygrmXewmUsjry'km qbeb gpe,mremqpemrlymcbn.p
aremqskm rxfbyt,mremrfsysrymramgqpmk.sgbvnpypkkmramgqpmxbg qwmSgmlbkmbnn
dpypebnmbffervbgsrymbyumkxrrgqypkk;myrgqsydmupnsypbgpumremuskgsyd.skqpuw
Sgmusumqpemyrmkpecs pmqrlpcpewmQpem b.gsrymlbkmgqerlymblbtwmPxxbmkbl
sgkmbegsas p,mbyumepg.eypumgrmqpemasekgmk.exskpkwmGqpepmfervbvntm_lbk_
krxpgqsydmxrepmgrm ry pbnmgqbymqpemrlymfepapepy p;mXewmUsjry,mfpeqbfk,
qbumvppymcpetmypbem qbydsydmrypmaespyumaremgqpmrgqpe,mremvppymasjpumrynt
grmXskkm bxfvpnn,maremgqpmkbopmramgqpma.g.epmglpncpmgqr.kbyumfr.yukw

Gqpmnsopmepkpecpmfepcbsnpumrymrgqpemgrfs kwmKqpmbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnn
qbumvppymbgmLptxr.gqmbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxpwmSgmlbkmoyrlymgqbgmgqptmlpepmb
nsggnpmb h.bsygpu;mv.gmyrgmbmktnnbvnpmramepbnmsyarexbgsrym r.numPxxb
fer .epmbkmgrmlqbgmqpmge.ntmlbkwm“Lbkmqpmqbyukrxp?”--“Kqpmvpnspcpu
qpmlbkmep orypumbmcpetmasypmtr.ydmxbyw”m“Lbkmqpmbdeppbvnp?”--“Qpmlbk
dpypebnntmgqr.dqgmkrw”m“Usumqpmbffpbembmkpyksvnpmtr.ydmxby;mbmtr.yd
xbymramsyarexbgsry?”--“Bgmbmlbgpesyd-fnb p,mremsymbm rxxrymNryury
b h.bsygby p,msgmlbkmusaas .ngmgrmup supmrymk. qmfrsygkwmXbyypekmlpep
bnnmgqbgm r.numvpmkbapntmz.udpumra,m.yupembmx. qmnrydpemoyrlnpudpmgqby
gqptmqbumtpgmqbumramXewm q.e qsnnwmKqpmvpnspcpumpcpetmvrutmar.yumqsk
xbyypekmfnpbksydw”mPxxbm r.numyrgmaredscpmqpew



 QBFGPEmSSS


Pxxbm r.numyrgmaredscpmqpe;--v.gmbkmypsgqpemfercr bgsrymyremepkpygxpyg
lpepmusk peypumvtmXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqrmqbumvppymramgqpmfbegt,mbyumqbu
kppymryntmferfpembggpygsrymbyumfnpbksydmvpqbcsr.emrympb qmksup,mqpmlbk
pjfepkksydmgqpmypjgmxreysyd,mvpsydmbgmQbegaspnumbdbsymrymv.ksypkkmlsgq
XewmLrruqr.kp,mqskmbffervbgsrymramgqpmlqrnp;myrgmkrmrfpyntmbkmqpmxsdqg
qbcpmurypmqbumqpemabgqpemvppymr.gmramgqpmerrx,mv.gmkfpbosydmfnbsympyr.dq
grmvpmcpetmsygpnnsdsvnpmgrmPxxbwmQpmqbumvppym.kpumgrmgqsyomqpem.yz.kgmgr
Zbyp,mbyumqbumyrlmdepbgmfnpbk.epmsymxbeosydmbymsxfercpxpygw

“Bmcpetmfnpbkbygmpcpysyd,”mqpmvpdby,mbkmkrrymbkmXewmLrruqr.kpmqbumvppy
gbnopumsygrmlqbgmlbkmyp pkkbet,mgrnumgqbgmqpm.yupekgrru,mbyumgqpmfbfpek
klpfgmblbt;--“fbegs .nbentmfnpbkbygwmTr.mbyumXskkmAbseabjmdbcpm.kmkrxp
cpetmdrrumx.ks wmSmurmyrgmoyrlmbmxrepmn.j.esr.kmkgbgp,mkse,mgqbymksggsyd
bgmryp'kmpbkpmgrmvpmpygpegbsypumbmlqrnpmpcpysydmvtmglrmk. qmtr.ydmlrxpy;
krxpgsxpkmlsgqmx.ks mbyumkrxpgsxpkmlsgqm rycpekbgsrywmSmbxmk.epmXskk
Abseabjmx.kgmqbcpmar.yumgqpmpcpysydmfnpbkbyg,mPxxbwmTr.mnpagmyrgqsyd
.yurypwmSmlbkmdnbumtr.mxbupmqpemfnbtmkrmx. q,maremqbcsydmyrmsykge.xpyg
bgmqpemdebyuxrgqpe'k,msgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymbmepbnmsyu.ndpy pw”

“Smbxmqbfftmtr.mbffercpu,”mkbsumPxxb,mkxsnsyd;m“v.gmSmqrfpmSmbxmyrg
ragpymupas spygmsymlqbgmskmu.pmgrmd.pkgkmbgmQbegaspnuw”

“Yr,mxtmupbe,”mkbsumqpemabgqpemsykgbygnt;m“_gqbg_mSmbxmk.epmtr.mbepmyrgw
Gqpepmskmyrvrutmqbnamkrmbggpygscpmbyum scsnmbkmtr.mbepwmSambytmgqsyd,
tr.mbepmgrrmbggpygscpwmGqpmx.aasymnbkgmysdqg--samsgmqbumvppymqbyupu
er.yumry p,mSmgqsyomsgmlr.numqbcpmvppympyr.dqw”

“Yr,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt,mypbentmbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp;m“tr.mbepmyrgmragpy
upas spyg;myrgmragpymupas spygmpsgqpemsymxbyypemrem rxfepqpyksrywmS
gqsyomtr.m.yupekgbyumxp,mgqpeparepw”

Bymbe qmnrrompjfepkkpu--“Sm.yupekgbyumtr.mlpnnmpyr.dq;”mv.gmkqpmkbsu
rynt,m“XskkmAbseabjmskmepkpecpuw”

“Smbnlbtkmgrnumtr.mkqpmlbk--bmnsggnp;mv.gmtr.mlsnnmkrrymrcpe rxpmbnn
gqbgmfbegmramqpemepkpecpmlqs qmr.dqgmgrmvpmrcpe rxp,mbnnmgqbgmqbkmsgk
ar.yubgsrymsymusaasupy pwmLqbgmbeskpkmaerxmusk epgsrymx.kgmvpmqryr.epuw”

“Tr.mgqsyomqpemusaasupygwmSmurmyrgmkppmsgw”

“XtmupbemPxxb,”mkbsumqp,mxrcsydmaerxmqskm qbsemsygrmrypm nrkpmvtmqpe,
“tr.mbepmyrgmdrsydmgrmgpnnmxp,mSmqrfp,mgqbgmtr.mqbumyrgmbmfnpbkbyg
pcpysydw”

“Rq!myr;mSmlbkmfnpbkpumlsgqmxtmrlymfpekpcpeby pmsymbkosydmh.pkgsryk;mbyu
bx.kpumgrmgqsyomqrlmnsggnpmsyarexbgsrymSmrvgbsypuw”

“Smbxmuskbffrsygpu,”mlbkmqskmryntmbyklpew

“Smqrfpmpcpetmvrutmqbumbmfnpbkbygmpcpysyd,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp,msymqsk
h.spgmlbtwm“SmqbuwmRy p,mSmapngmgqpmasepmebgqpemgrrmx. q;mv.gmgqpymS
xrcpumvb omxtm qbsembmnsggnp,mbmcpetmnsggnp,mbyumsgmusumyrgmuskg.evmxpw
XskkmVbgpkmlbkmcpetm qbggtmbyumdrru-q.xr.epu,mbkmkqpmbnlbtkmsk,mgqr.dq
kqpmkfpbokmebgqpemgrrmh.s owmQrlpcpe,mkqpmskmcpetmbdeppbvnp,mbyumXekw
Vbgpkmgrr,msymbmusaapepygmlbtwmSmnsopmrnumaespyuk;mbyumXskkmZbyp
Abseabjmskmbmcpetmfepggtmkregmramtr.ydmnbut,mbmcpetmfepggtmbyumb
cpetmlpnn-vpqbcpumtr.ydmnbutmsyuppuwmKqpmx.kgmqbcpmar.yumgqpmpcpysyd
bdeppbvnp,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mvp b.kpmkqpmqbumPxxbw”

“Ge.p,mkse;mbyumPxxb,mvp b.kpmkqpmqbumXskkmAbseabjw”

Pxxbmkblmqskmbyjspgt,mbyumlskqsydmgrmbffpbkpmsg,mbgmnpbkgmaremgqp
fepkpyg,mkbsu,mbyumlsgqmbmksy pesgtmlqs qmyrmrypm r.numh.pkgsry--

“Kqpmskmbmkregmrampnpdbygm epbg.epmgqbgmrypm byyrgmoppfmryp'kmptpkmaerxw
Smbxmbnlbtkmlbg qsydmqpemgrmbuxsep;mbyumSmurmfsgtmqpemaerxmxtmqpbegw”

XewmOysdqgnptmnrropumbkmsamqpmlpepmxrepmdebgsaspumgqbymqpm bepumgr
pjfepkk;mbyumvparepmqpm r.numxbopmbytmepfnt,mXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrkp
gqr.dqgkmlpepmrymgqpmVbgpk'k,mkbsu--

“Sgmskmbmdepbgmfsgtmgqbgmgqpsem se .xkgby pkmkqr.numvpmkrm ryasypu!mb
depbgmfsgtmsyuppu!mbyumSmqbcpmragpymlskqpu--v.gmsgmskmkrmnsggnpmrypm by
cpyg.epmgrmur--kxbnn,mgesansydmfepkpygk,mrambytmgqsydm.y rxxry--Yrlmlp
qbcpmosnnpumbmfreope,mbyumPxxbmgqsyokmramkpyusydmgqpxmbmnrsymrembmnpd;
sgmskmcpetmkxbnnmbyumupns bgp--Qbegaspnumfreomskmyrgmnsopmbytmrgqpe
freo--v.gmkgsnnmsgmskmfreo--byu,mxtmupbemPxxb,m.ynpkkmrypm r.numvpmk.ep
ramgqpsemxbosydmsgmsygrmkgpbok,mys pntmaespu,mbkmr.ekmbepmaespu,mlsgqr.g
gqpmkxbnnpkgmdepbkp,mbyumyrgmerbkgmsg,maremyrmkgrxb qm bymvpbemerbkg
freo--Smgqsyomlpmqbumvpggpemkpyumgqpmnpd--urmyrgmtr.mgqsyomkr,mxtmupbe?”

“Xtmupbemfbfb,mSmkpygmgqpmlqrnpmqsyu-h.begpewmSmoyplmtr.mlr.numlskqmsgw
Gqpepmlsnnmvpmgqpmnpdmgrmvpmkbngpu,mtr.moyrl,mlqs qmskmkrmcpetmys p,mbyu
gqpmnrsymgrmvpmuepkkpumusep gntmsymbytmxbyypemgqptmnsopw”

“Gqbg'kmesdqg,mxtmupbe,mcpetmesdqgwmSmqbumyrgmgqr.dqgmramsgmvparep,mv.g
gqbgmskmgqpmvpkgmlbtwmGqptmx.kgmyrgmrcpe-kbngmgqpmnpd;mbyumgqpy,msamsg
skmyrgmrcpe-kbngpu,mbyumsamsgmskmcpetmgqrer.dqntmvrsnpu,mz.kgmbkmKpenp
vrsnkmr.ek,mbyumpbgpymcpetmxrupebgpntmra,mlsgqmbmvrsnpumg.eysf,mbyumb
nsggnpm beergmremfbekysf,mSmurmyrgm ryksupemsgm.ylqrnpkrxpw”

“Pxxb,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptmfepkpygnt,m“Smqbcpmbmfsp pmramyplkmaremtr.w
Tr.mnsopmyplk--byumSmqpbeumbymbegs npmsymxtmlbtmqsgqpemgqbgmSmgqsyomlsnn
sygpepkgmtr.w”

“Yplk!mRq!mtpk,mSmbnlbtkmnsopmyplkwmLqbgmskmsg?--lqtmurmtr.mkxsnp
kr?--lqpepmusumtr.mqpbemsg?--bgmEbyubnnk?”

Qpmqbumgsxpmryntmgrmkbt,

“Yr,myrgmbgmEbyubnnk;mSmqbcpmyrgmvppymypbemEbyubnnk,”mlqpymgqpmurremlbk
gqerlymrfpy,mbyumXskkmVbgpkmbyumXskkmAbseabjmlbnopumsygrmgqpmerrxwmA.nn
ramgqbyok,mbyuma.nnmramyplk,mXskkmVbgpkmoyplmyrgmlqs qmgrmdscpmh.s opkgw
XewmOysdqgnptmkrrymkblmgqbgmqpmqbumnrkgmqskmxrxpyg,mbyumgqbgmyrgmbyrgqpe
ktnnbvnpmram rxx.ys bgsrym r.numepkgmlsgqmqsxw

“Rq!mxtmupbemkse,mqrlmbepmtr.mgqskmxreysyd?mXtmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp--S
 rxpmh.sgpmrcpe-frlpepuwmK. qmbmvpb.gsa.nmqsyu-h.begpemramfreo!mTr.
bepmgrrmvr.ygsa.n!mQbcpmtr.mqpbeumgqpmyplk?mXewmPngrymskmdrsydmgrmvp
xbeespuw”

PxxbmqbumyrgmqbumgsxpmpcpymgrmgqsyomramXewmPngry,mbyumkqpmlbkmkr
 rxfnpgpntmk.efesipumgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmbcrsumbmnsggnpmkgbeg,mbyumb
nsggnpmvn.kq,mbgmgqpmkr.yuw

“Gqpepmskmxtmyplk:--Smgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numsygpepkgmtr.,”mkbsumXew
Oysdqgnpt,mlsgqmbmkxsnpmlqs qmsxfnspumbm rycs gsrymramkrxpmfbegmramlqbg
qbumfbkkpumvpglppymgqpxw

“V.gmlqpepm r.num_tr._mqpbemsg?”m espumXskkmVbgpkwm“Lqpepm r.numtr.
frkksvntmqpbemsg,mXewmOysdqgnpt?mAremsgmskmyrgmascpmxsy.gpkmksy pmS
ep pscpumXekwm rnp'kmyrgp--yr,msgm byyrgmvpmxrepmgqbymascp--rembgmnpbkg
gpy--aremSmqbumdrgmxtmvryypgmbyumkfpy pemry,mz.kgmepbutmgrm rxpmr.g--S
lbkmryntmdrypmurlymgrmkfpbomgrmFbggtmbdbsymbvr.gmgqpmfreo--Zbypmlbk
kgbyusydmsymgqpmfbkkbdp--lpepmyrgmtr.,mZbyp?--aremxtmxrgqpemlbkmkr
baebsumgqbgmlpmqbumyrgmbytmkbngsyd-fbymnbedpmpyr.dqwmKrmSmkbsumSmlr.nu
drmurlymbyumkpp,mbyumZbypmkbsu,m'KqbnnmSmdrmurlymsykgpbu?maremSmgqsyo
tr.mqbcpmbmnsggnpm rnu,mbyumFbggtmqbkmvppymlbkqsydmgqpmosg qpyw'--'Rq!
xtmupbe,'mkbsumS--lpnn,mbyumz.kgmgqpym bxpmgqpmyrgpwmBmXskk
Qblosyk--gqbg'kmbnnmSmoyrlwmBmXskkmQblosykmramVbgqwmV.g,mXewmOysdqgnpt,
qrlm r.numtr.mfrkksvntmqbcpmqpbeumsg?maremgqpmcpetmxrxpygmXewm rnpmgrnu
Xekwm rnpmramsg,mkqpmkbgmurlymbyumlergpmgrmxpwmBmXskkmQblosyk--”

“SmlbkmlsgqmXewm rnpmrymv.ksypkkmbymqr.embyumbmqbnambdrwmQpmqbumz.kg
epbumPngry'kmnpggpembkmSmlbkmkqplymsy,mbyumqbyupumsgmgrmxpmusep gntw”

“Lpnn!mgqbgmskmh.sgp--Smk.ffrkpmgqpepmypcpemlbkmbmfsp pmramyplkmxrep
dpypebnntmsygpepkgsydwmXtmupbemkse,mtr.mepbnntmbepmgrrmvr.ygsa.nwmXt
xrgqpemupksepkmqpemcpetmvpkgm rxfnsxpygkmbyumepdbeuk,mbyumbmgqr.kbyu
gqbyok,mbyumkbtkmtr.mepbnntmh.sgpmrffepkkmqpew”

“Lpm ryksupemr.emQbegaspnumfreo,”mepfnspumXewmLrruqr.kp--“syuppumsg
 pegbsyntmsk,mkrmcpetmk.fpesremgrmbnnmrgqpemfreo,mgqbgmPxxbmbyumSm byyrg
qbcpmbmdepbgpemfnpbk.epmgqby--”

“Rq!mxtmupbemkse,mbkmxtmxrgqpemkbtk,mr.emaespyukmbepmryntmgrrmdrru
grm.kwmSampcpemgqpepmlpepmfprfnpmlqr,mlsgqr.gmqbcsydmdepbgmlpbngq
gqpxkpncpk,mqbumpcpetmgqsydmgqptm r.numlskqmare,mSmbxmk.epmsgmskm.kw
Lpmxbtmlpnnmkbtmgqbgm'r.emnrgmskm bkgmsymbmdrruntmqpesgbdpw'mLpnn,mXew
Oysdqgnpt,mbyumkrmtr.mb g.bnntmkblmgqpmnpggpe;mlpnn--”

“Sgmlbkmkqreg--xpepntmgrmbyyr.y p--v.gm qppea.n,mpj.ngsyd,mram r.ekpw”--
Qpepmlbkmbmkntmdnby pmbgmPxxbwm“Qpmqbumvppymkrmareg.ybgpmbkmgr--Smaredpg
gqpmfep skpmlreuk--rypmqbkmyrmv.ksypkkmgrmepxpxvpemgqpxwmGqpmsyarexbgsry
lbk,mbkmtr.mkgbgp,mgqbgmqpmlbkmdrsydmgrmvpmxbeespumgrmbmXskkmQblosykwmVt
qskmkgtnp,mSmkqr.numsxbdsypmsgmz.kgmkpggnpuw”

“XewmPngrymdrsydmgrmvpmxbeespu!”mkbsumPxxb,mbkmkrrymbkmkqpm r.numkfpbow
“Qpmlsnnmqbcpmpcpetmvrut'kmlskqpkmaremqskmqbffsypkkw”

“Qpmskmcpetmtr.ydmgrmkpggnp,”mlbkmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmrvkpecbgsrywm“Qpmqbu
vpggpemyrgmvpmsymbmq.eetwmQpmkppxpumgrmxpmcpetmlpnnmraambkmqpmlbkwmLp
lpepmbnlbtkmdnbumgrmkppmqsxmbgmQbegaspnuw”

“Bmyplmypsdqvr.emarem.kmbnn,mXskkmLrruqr.kp!”mkbsumXskkmVbgpk,mzrta.nnt;
“xtmxrgqpemskmkrmfnpbkpu!--kqpmkbtkmkqpm byyrgmvpbemgrmqbcpmgqpmfrremrnu
Cs bebdpmlsgqr.gmbmxskgepkkwmGqskmskmdepbgmyplk,msyuppuwmZbyp,mtr.mqbcp
ypcpemkppymXewmPngry!--yrmlryupemgqbgmtr.mqbcpmk. qmbm .esrksgtmgrmkpp
qsxw”

Zbyp'km .esrksgtmusumyrgmbffpbemramgqbgmbvkrevsydmybg.epmbkmlqrnntmgr
r  .ftmqpew

“Yr--SmqbcpmypcpemkppymXewmPngry,”mkqpmepfnspu,mkgbegsydmrymgqskmbffpbn;
“skmqp--skmqpmbmgbnnmxby?”

“Lqrmkqbnnmbyklpemgqbgmh.pkgsry?”m espumPxxbwm“Xtmabgqpemlr.numkbt
'tpk,'mXewmOysdqgnptm'yr;'mbyumXskkmVbgpkmbyumSmgqbgmqpmskmz.kgmgqp
qbfftmxpus.xwmLqpymtr.mqbcpmvppymqpepmbmnsggnpmnrydpe,mXskkmAbseabj,
tr.mlsnnm.yupekgbyumgqbgmXewmPngrymskmgqpmkgbyubeumramfpeap gsrymsy
Qsdqv.et,mvrgqmsymfpekrymbyumxsyuw”

“Cpetmge.p,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mkrmkqpmlsnnwmQpmskmgqpmcpetmvpkgmtr.yd
xby--V.g,mxtmupbemZbyp,msamtr.mepxpxvpe,mSmgrnumtr.mtpkgpeubtmqp
lbkmfep skpntmgqpmqpsdqgmramXewmFpeetwmXskkmQblosyk,--Smubepmkbt,mby
pj pnnpygmtr.ydmlrxbywmQskmpjgepxpmbggpygsrymgrmxtmxrgqpe--lbygsyd
qpemgrmksgmsymgqpmcs bebdpmfpl,mgqbgmkqpmxsdqgmqpbemgqpmvpggpe,maremxt
xrgqpemskmbmnsggnpmupba,mtr.moyrl--sgmskmyrgmx. q,mv.gmkqpmurpkmyrg
qpbemh.sgpmh.s owmZbypmkbtkmgqbgm rnrypnm bxfvpnnmskmbmnsggnpmupbawmQp
aby spumvbgqsydmxsdqgmvpmdrrumaremsg--gqpmlbexmvbgq--v.gmkqpmkbtkmsgmusu
qsxmyrmnbkgsydmvpypasgwm rnrypnm bxfvpnn,mtr.moyrl,mskmh.sgpmr.embydpnw
ByumXewmUsjrymkppxkmbmcpetm qbexsydmtr.ydmxby,mh.sgpmlregqtmramqsxwmSg
skmk. qmbmqbffsypkkmlqpymdrrumfprfnpmdpgmgrdpgqpe--byumgqptmbnlbtkmurw
Yrl,mqpepmlsnnmvpmXewmPngrymbyumXskkmQblosyk;mbyumgqpepmbepmgqpm rnpk,
k. qmcpetmdrrumfprfnp;mbyumgqpmFpeetk--Smk.ffrkpmgqpepmypcpemlbkmb
qbffspemrembmvpggpem r.fnpmgqbymXewmbyumXekwmFpeetwmSmkbt,mkse,”mg.eysyd
grmXewmLrruqr.kp,m“Smgqsyomgqpepmbepmaplmfnb pkmlsgqmk. qmkr spgtmbk
Qsdqv.etwmSmbnlbtkmkbt,mlpmbepmh.sgpmvnpkkpumsymr.emypsdqvr.ekw--Xtmupbe
kse,msamgqpepmskmrypmgqsydmxtmxrgqpemnrcpkmvpggpemgqbymbyrgqpe,msgmsk
freo--bmerbkgmnrsymramfreo--”

“Bkmgrmlqr,mremlqbgmXskkmQblosykmsk,mremqrlmnrydmqpmqbkmvppymb h.bsygpu
lsgqmqpe,”mkbsumPxxb,m“yrgqsydmSmk.ffrkpm bymvpmoyrlywmRypmappnkmgqbgmsg
 byyrgmvpmbmcpetmnrydmb h.bsygby pwmQpmqbkmvppymdrypmryntmar.emlppokw”

Yrvrutmqbumbytmsyarexbgsrymgrmdscp;mbyu,mbagpembmaplmxrepmlryupesydk,
Pxxbmkbsu,

“Tr.mbepmksnpyg,mXskkmAbseabj--v.gmSmqrfpmtr.mxpbymgrmgbopmbymsygpepkg
symgqskmyplkwmTr.,mlqrmqbcpmvppymqpbesydmbyumkppsydmkrmx. qmramnbgp
rymgqpkpmk.vzp gk,mlqrmx.kgmqbcpmvppymkrmuppfmsymgqpmv.ksypkkmrymXskk
 bxfvpnn'kmb  r.yg--lpmkqbnnmyrgmpj .kpmtr.emvpsydmsyusaapepygmbvr.gmXew
PngrymbyumXskkmQblosykw”

“LqpymSmqbcpmkppymXewmPngry,”mepfnspumZbyp,m“SmubepmkbtmSmkqbnnmvp
sygpepkgpu--v.gmSmvpnspcpmsgmeph.sepkm_gqbg_mlsgqmxpwmByumbkmsgmskmkrxp
xrygqkmksy pmXskkm bxfvpnnmxbeespu,mgqpmsxfepkksrymxbtmvpmbmnsggnpmlrey
raaw”

“Tpk,mqpmqbkmvppymdrypmz.kgmar.emlppok,mbkmtr.mrvkpecp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,”
mkbsumXskkmVbgpk,m“ar.emlppokmtpkgpeubtw--BmXskkmQblosyk!--Lpnn,mSmqbu
bnlbtkmebgqpemaby spumsgmlr.numvpmkrxpmtr.ydmnbutmqpepbvr.gk;myrgmgqbg
Smpcpe--Xekwm rnpmry pmlqskfpepumgrmxp--v.gmSmsxxpusbgpntmkbsu,m'Yr,mXew
Pngrymskmbmxrkgmlregqtmtr.ydmxby--v.g'--Symkqreg,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomSmbx
fbegs .nbentmh.s ombgmgqrkpmkregmramusk rcpespkwmSmurmyrgmfepgpyumgrmsgw
Lqbgmskmvparepmxp,mSmkppwmBgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp,myrvrutm r.numlryupemsa
XewmPngrymkqr.numqbcpmbkfsepu--XskkmLrruqr.kpmnpgkmxpm qbggpemry,mkr
drru-q.xr.epuntwmKqpmoyrlkmSmlr.numyrgmraapyumaremgqpmlrenuwmQrlmurpk
XskkmKxsgqmur?mKqpmkppxkmh.sgpmep rcpepumyrlwmQbcpmtr.mqpbeumaerxmXekw
ZrqymOysdqgnptmnbgpnt?mRq!mgqrkpmupbemnsggnpm qsnuepywmZbyp,murmtr.
oyrlmSmbnlbtkmaby tmXewmUsjrymnsopmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptwmSmxpbymsy
fpekry--gbnn,mbyumlsgqmgqbgmkregmramnrro--byumyrgmcpetmgbnobgscpw”

“H.sgpmleryd,mxtmupbemb.yg;mgqpepmskmyrmnsopypkkmbgmbnnw”

“Cpetmruu!mv.gmrypmypcpemurpkmarexmbmz.kgmsupbmrambytmvrutmvparepqbyuw
Rypmgbopkm.fmbmyrgsry,mbyume.ykmblbtmlsgqmsgwmXewmUsjry,mtr.mkbt,msk
yrg,mkges gntmkfpbosyd,mqbyukrxp?”

“Qbyukrxp!mRq!myr--abemaerxmsg-- pegbsyntmfnbsywmSmgrnumtr.mqpmlbk
fnbsyw”

“Xtmupbe,mtr.mkbsumgqbgmXskkm bxfvpnnmlr.numyrgmbnnrlmqsxmgrmvpmfnbsy,
byumgqbgmtr.mtr.ekpna--”

“Rq!mbkmaremxp,mxtmz.udxpygmskmlregqmyrgqsydwmLqpepmSmqbcpmbmepdbeu,
Smbnlbtkmgqsyombmfpekrymlpnn-nrrosydwmV.gmSmdbcpmlqbgmSmvpnspcpumgqp
dpypebnmrfsysry,mlqpymSm bnnpumqsxmfnbsyw”

“Lpnn,mxtmupbemZbyp,mSmvpnspcpmlpmx.kgmvpme.yysydmblbtwmGqpmlpbgqpemurpk
yrgmnrromlpnn,mbyumdebyuxbxbmlsnnmvpm.ypbktwmTr.mbepmgrrmrvnsdsyd,mxt
upbemXskkmLrruqr.kp;mv.gmlpmepbnntmx.kgmgbopmnpbcpwmGqskmqbkmvppymbmxrkg
bdeppbvnpmfsp pmramyplkmsyuppuwmSmkqbnnmz.kgmdrmer.yumvtmXekwm rnp'k;
v.gmSmkqbnnmyrgmkgrfmgqeppmxsy.gpk:mbyu,mZbyp,mtr.mqbumvpggpemdrmqrxp
usep gnt--Smlr.numyrgmqbcpmtr.mr.gmsymbmkqrlpe!--Lpmgqsyomkqpmskmgqp
vpggpemaremQsdqv.etmbnepbutwmGqbyomtr.,mlpmurmsyuppuwmSmkqbnnmyrg
bggpxfgm bnnsydmrymXekwmDruubeu,maremSmepbnntmurmyrgmgqsyomkqpm bepkmare
bytmgqsydmv.gm_vrsnpu_mfreo:mlqpymlpmuepkkmgqpmnpdmsgmlsnnmvpmbyrgqpe
gqsydwmDrrumxreysydmgrmtr.,mxtmupbemksewmRq!mXewmOysdqgnptmskm rxsyd
grrwmLpnn,mgqbgmskmkrmcpet!--Smbxmk.epmsamZbypmskmgsepu,mtr.mlsnnmvp
krmosyumbkmgrmdscpmqpemtr.embexw--XewmPngry,mbyumXskkmQblosyk!--Drru
xreysydmgrmtr.w”

Pxxb,mbnrypmlsgqmqpemabgqpe,mqbumqbnamqpembggpygsrymlbygpumvtmqsxmlqsnp
qpmnbxpygpumgqbgmtr.ydmfprfnpmlr.numvpmsymk. qmbmq.eetmgrmxbeet--byumgr
xbeetmkgebydpekmgrr--byumgqpmrgqpemqbnamkqpm r.numdscpmgrmqpemrlymcspl
ramgqpmk.vzp gwmSgmlbkmgrmqpekpnambymbx.ksydmbyumbmcpetmlpn rxpmfsp p
ramyplk,mbkmfercsydmgqbgmXewmPngrym r.numyrgmqbcpmk.aapepumnryd;mv.gmkqp
lbkmkreetmaremQbeespg:mQbeespgmx.kgmappnmsg--byumbnnmgqbgmkqpm r.numqrfp
lbk,mvtmdscsydmgqpmasekgmsyarexbgsrymqpekpna,mgrmkbcpmqpemaerxmqpbesyd
sgmbve.fgntmaerxmrgqpekwmSgmlbkmyrlmbvr.gmgqpmgsxpmgqbgmkqpmlbkmnsopnt
grm bnnwmSamkqpmlpepmgrmxppgmXskkmVbgpkmsymqpemlbt!--byum.frymsgk
vpdsyysydmgrmebsy,mPxxbmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmpjfp gmgqbgmgqpmlpbgqpemlr.nu
vpmupgbsysydmqpembgmXekwmDruubeu'k,mbyumgqbgmgqpmsygpnnsdpy pmlr.nu
.yur.vgpuntme.kqm.frymqpemlsgqr.gmfepfbebgsryw

Gqpmkqrlpemlbkmqpbct,mv.gmkqreg;mbyumsgmqbumyrgmvppymrcpemascpmxsy.gpk,
lqpymsym bxpmQbeespg,mlsgqmz.kgmgqpmqpbgpu,mbdsgbgpumnrromlqs q
q.eetsydmgqsgqpemlsgqmbma.nnmqpbegmlbkmnsopntmgrmdscp;mbyumgqpm“Rq!mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mlqbgmurmtr.mgqsyomqbkmqbffpypu!”mlqs qmsykgbygntmv.ekgmaregq,
qbumbnnmgqpmpcsupy pmram reepkfryusydmfpeg.evbgsrywmBkmgqpmvnrlmlbk
dscpy,mPxxbmapngmgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmyrlmkqplmdepbgpemosyuypkkmgqbymsy
nskgpysyd;mbyumQbeespg,m.y qp opu,mebympbdpentmgqer.dqmlqbgmkqpmqbumgr
gpnnwm“Kqpmqbumkpgmr.gmaerxmXekwmDruubeu'kmqbnambymqr.embdr--kqpmqbu
vppymbaebsumsgmlr.numebsy--kqpmqbumvppymbaebsumsgmlr.numfr.emurly
pcpetmxrxpyg--v.gmkqpmgqr.dqgmkqpmxsdqgmdpgmgrmQbegaspnumasekg--kqp
qbumq.eespumrymbkmabkgmbkmfrkksvnp;mv.gmgqpy,mbkmkqpmlbkmfbkksydmvtmgqp
qr.kpmlqpepmbmtr.ydmlrxbymlbkmxbosydm.fmbmdrlymaremqpe,mkqpmgqr.dqgmkqp
lr.numz.kgmkgpfmsymbyumkppmqrlmsgmlpygmry;mbyumgqr.dqmkqpmusumyrgmkppx
grmkgbtmqbnambmxrxpygmgqpep,mkrrymbagpemkqpm bxpmr.gmsgmvpdbymgrmebsy,
byumkqpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbgmgrmur;mkrmkqpmebymrymusep gnt,mbkmabkgmbk
kqpm r.nu,mbyumgrromkqpngpembgmAreu'kw”--Areu'kmlbkmgqpmfesy sfbn
lrrnnpy-uebfpe,mnsypy-uebfpe,mbyumqbvpeubkqpe'kmkqrfm.ysgpu;mgqpmkqrf
asekgmsymksipmbyumabkqsrymsymgqpmfnb pw--“Byumkr,mgqpepmkqpmqbu
kpg,mlsgqr.gmbymsupbmrambytmgqsydmsymgqpmlrenu,ma.nnmgpymxsy.gpk,
fpeqbfk--lqpy,mbnnmrambmk.uupy,mlqrmkqr.num rxpmsy--grmvpmk.epmsgmlbk
krmcpetmruu!--v.gmgqptmbnlbtkmupbngmbgmAreu'k--lqrmkqr.num rxpmsy,mv.g
PnsibvpgqmXbegsymbyumqpemvergqpe!--UpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp!mryntmgqsyowmS
gqr.dqgmSmkqr.numqbcpmabsygpuwmSmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbgmgrmurwmSmlbkmksggsyd
ypbemgqpmurre--Pnsibvpgqmkblmxpmusep gnt;mv.gmqpmusumyrg;mqpmlbkmv.kt
lsgqmgqpm.xvepnnbwmSmbxmk.epmkqpmkblmxp,mv.gmkqpmnrropumblbtmusep gnt,
byumgrromyrmyrgs p;mbyumgqptmvrgqmlpygmgrmh.sgpmgqpmabegqpempyumramgqp
kqrf;mbyumSmopfgmksggsydmypbemgqpmurre!--Rq!mupbe;mSmlbkmkrmxskpebvnp!
Smbxmk.epmSmx.kgmqbcpmvppymbkmlqsgpmbkmxtmdrlywmSm r.numyrgmdrmblbt
tr.moyrl,mvp b.kpmramgqpmebsy;mv.gmSmusumkrmlskqmxtkpnambytlqpepmsymgqp
lrenumv.gmgqpepw--Rq!mupbe,mXskkmLrruqr.kp--lpnn,mbgmnbkg,mSmaby t,mqp
nrropumer.yumbyumkblmxp;maremsykgpbumramdrsydmrymlsgqmqpemv.tsydk,mgqpt
vpdbymlqskfpesydmgrmrypmbyrgqpewmSmbxmk.epmgqptmlpepmgbnosydmramxp;mbyu
Sm r.numyrgmqpnfmgqsyosydmgqbgmqpmlbkmfpek.busydmqpemgrmkfpbomgrmxp--(ur
tr.mgqsyomqpmlbk,mXskkmLrruqr.kp?)--aremfepkpygntmkqpm bxpmarelbeu-- bxp
h.sgpm.fmgrmxp,mbyumbkopumxpmqrlmSmusu,mbyumkppxpumepbutmgrmkqbopmqbyuk,
samSmlr.nuwmKqpmusumyrgmurmbytmramsgmsymgqpmkbxpmlbtmgqbgmkqpm.kpu;mS
 r.numkppmkqpmlbkmbngpepu;mv.g,mqrlpcpe,mkqpmkppxpumgrm_get_mgrmvpmcpet
aespyunt,mbyumlpmkqrromqbyuk,mbyumkgrrumgbnosydmkrxpmgsxp;mv.gmSmoyrlmyr
xrepmlqbgmSmkbsu--Smlbkmsymk. qmbmgepxvnp!--Smepxpxvpemkqpmkbsumkqp
lbkmkreetmlpmypcpemxpgmyrl;mlqs qmSmgqr.dqgmbnxrkgmgrrmosyu!mUpbe,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mSmlbkmbvkrn.gpntmxskpebvnp!mVtmgqbgmgsxp,msgmlbkmvpdsyysydmgr
qrnum.f,mbyumSmlbkmupgpexsypumgqbgmyrgqsydmkqr.numkgrfmxpmaerxmdpggsyd
blbt--byumgqpy--ryntmgqsyo!--Smar.yumqpmlbkm rxsydm.fmgrlbeukmxp
grr--knrlntmtr.moyrl,mbyumbkmsamqpmusumyrgmh.sgpmoyrlmlqbgmgrmur;mbyu
krmqpm bxpmbyumkfrop,mbyumSmbyklpepu--byumSmkgrrumarembmxsy.gp,mappnsyd
uepbua.nnt,mtr.moyrl,mrypm by'gmgpnnmqrl;mbyumgqpymSmgrrom r.ebdp,mbyu
kbsumsgmusumyrgmebsy,mbyumSmx.kgmdr;mbyumkrmraamSmkpg;mbyumSmqbumyrgmdrg
gqeppmtbeukmaerxmgqpmurre,mlqpymqpm bxpmbagpemxp,mryntmgrmkbt,msamSmlbk
drsydmgrmQbegaspnu,mqpmgqr.dqgmSmqbumx. qmvpggpemdrmer.yumvtmXewm rnp'k
kgbvnpk,maremSmkqr.numasyumgqpmypbemlbtmh.sgpmanrbgpumvtmgqskmebsywmRq!
upbe,mSmgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numqbcpmvppymgqpmupbgqmramxp!mKrmSmkbsu,mSmlbk
cpetmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmqsx:mtr.moyrlmSm r.numyrgmurmnpkk;mbyumgqpymqpmlpyg
vb omgrmPnsibvpgq,mbyumSm bxpmer.yumvtmgqpmkgbvnpk--SmvpnspcpmSmusu--v.g
SmqbeuntmoyplmlqpepmSmlbk,mrembytmgqsydmbvr.gmsgwmRq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,
Smlr.numebgqpemurypmbytmgqsydmgqbymqbcpmsgmqbffpy:mbyumtpg,mtr.moyrl,
gqpepmlbkmbmkregmramkbgskab gsrymsymkppsydmqsxmvpqbcpmkrmfnpbkbygntmbyu
krmosyuntwmByumPnsibvpgq,mgrrwmRq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,murmgbnomgrmxpmbyu
xbopmxpm rxaregbvnpmbdbsyw”

Cpetmksy pepntmusumPxxbmlskqmgrmurmkr;mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmsxxpusbgpntmsy
qpemfrlpewmKqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmkgrfmbyumgqsyowmKqpmlbkmyrgmgqrer.dqnt
 rxaregbvnpmqpekpnawmGqpmtr.ydmxby'km ryu. g,mbyumqskmkskgpe'k,mkppxpu
gqpmepk.ngmramepbnmappnsyd,mbyumkqpm r.numyrgmv.gmfsgtmgqpxwmBkmQbeespg
upk esvpumsg,mgqpepmqbumvppymbymsygpepkgsydmxsjg.epmramlr.yupumbaap gsry
byumdpy.sypmupns b tmsymgqpsemvpqbcsr.ewmV.gmkqpmqbumvpnspcpumgqpxmgrmvp
lpnn-xpbysyd,mlregqtmfprfnpmvparep;mbyumlqbgmusaapepy pmusumgqskmxbop
symgqpmpcsnkmramgqpm ryypjsry?mSgmlbkmarnntmgrmvpmuskg.evpumvtmsgwmRa
 r.ekp,mqpmx.kgmvpmkreetmgrmnrkpmqpe--gqptmx.kgmvpmbnnmkreetwmBxvsgsry,
bkmlpnnmbkmnrcp,mqbumfervbvntmvppymxregsaspuwmGqptmxsdqgmbnnmqbcpmqrfpu
grmeskpmvtmQbeespg'kmb h.bsygby p:mbyumvpksupk,mlqbgmlbkmgqpmcbn.pmra
Qbeespg'kmupk esfgsry?--Krmpbksntmfnpbkpu--krmnsggnpmusk peysyd;--lqbg
ksdysaspumqpemfebskp?

Kqpmpjpegpumqpekpna,mbyumusumgetmgrmxbopmqpem rxaregbvnp,mvtm ryksupesyd
bnnmgqbgmqbumfbkkpumbkmbmxpepmgesanp,mbyumh.sgpm.ylregqtmramvpsydmulpng
ry,

“Sgmxsdqgmvpmuskgepkksyd,maremgqpmxrxpyg,”mkbsumkqp;m“v.gmtr.mkppxmgr
qbcpmvpqbcpumpjgepxpntmlpnn;mbyumsgmskmrcpe--byumxbtmypcpe-- bymypcpe,
bkmbmasekgmxppgsyd,mr  .embdbsy,mbyumgqpeparepmtr.myppumyrgmgqsyombvr.g
sgw”

Qbeespgmkbsu,m“cpetmge.p,”mbyumkqpm“lr.numyrgmgqsyombvr.gmsg;”mv.gmkgsnn
kqpmgbnopumramsg--kgsnnmkqpm r.numgbnomramyrgqsydmpnkp;mbyumPxxb,mbg
nbkg,msymreupemgrmf.gmgqpmXbegsykmr.gmramqpemqpbu,mlbkmrvnsdpumgrmq.eet
rymgqpmyplk,mlqs qmkqpmqbumxpbygmgrmdscpmlsgqmkrmx. qmgpyupem b.gsry;
qbeuntmoyrlsydmqpekpnamlqpgqpemgrmepzrs pmremvpmbydet,mbkqbxpumremrynt
bx.kpu,mbgmk. qmbmkgbgpmramxsyumsymfrremQbeespg--k. qmbm ry n.ksrymra
XewmPngry'kmsxfregby pmlsgqmqpe!

XewmPngry'kmesdqgk,mqrlpcpe,mdebu.bnntmepcscpuwmGqr.dqmkqpmusumyrgmappn
gqpmasekgmsygpnnsdpy pmbkmkqpmxsdqgmqbcpmurypmgqpmubtmvparep,mrembymqr.e
vparep,msgkmsygpepkgmkrrymsy epbkpu;mbyumvparepmgqpsemasekgm rycpekbgsry
lbkmrcpe,mkqpmqbumgbnopumqpekpnamsygrmbnnmgqpmkpykbgsrykmram .esrksgt,
lryupembyumepdepg,mfbsymbyumfnpbk.ep,mbkmgrmgqskmareg.ybgpmXskkmQblosyk,
lqs qm r.num ryu. pmgrmfnb pmgqpmXbegsykm.yupemferfpemk.vreusybgsrymsy
qpemaby tw

Pxxbmnpbeypumgrmvpmebgqpemdnbumgqbgmgqpepmqbumvppymk. qmbmxppgsydwmSg
qbumvppymkpecs pbvnpmsymupbupysydmgqpmasekgmkqr o,mlsgqr.gmepgbsysydmbyt
syan.py pmgrmbnbexwmBkmQbeespgmyrlmnscpu,mgqpmXbegsykm r.numyrgmdpg
bgmqpe,mlsgqr.gmkpposydmqpe,mlqpepmqsgqpegrmgqptmqbumlbygpumpsgqpemgqp
 r.ebdpmremgqpm ryupk pyksrymgrmkppomqpe;maremksy pmqpemepa.kbnmramgqp
vergqpe,mgqpmkskgpekmypcpemqbumvppymbgmXekwmDruubeu'k;mbyumbmglpncpxrygq
xsdqgmfbkkmlsgqr.gmgqpsemvpsydmgqerlymgrdpgqpembdbsy,mlsgqmbyt
yp pkksgt,mrempcpymbytmfrlpemramkfpp qw



 QBFGPEmSC


Q.xbymybg.epmskmkrmlpnnmuskfrkpumgrlbeukmgqrkpmlqrmbepmsymsygpepkgsyd
ksg.bgsryk,mgqbgmbmtr.ydmfpekry,mlqrmpsgqpemxbeespkmremuspk,mskmk.epmra
vpsydmosyuntmkfropymraw

Bmlppomqbumyrgmfbkkpumksy pmXskkmQblosyk'kmybxpmlbkmasekgmxpygsrypumsy
Qsdqv.et,mvparepmkqpmlbk,mvtmkrxpmxpbykmremrgqpe,musk rcpepumgrmqbcp
pcpetmep rxxpyubgsrymramfpekrymbyumxsyu;mgrmvpmqbyukrxp,mpnpdbyg,mqsdqnt
b  rxfnskqpu,mbyumfpeap gntmbxsbvnp:mbyumlqpymXewmPngrymqsxkpnambeescpu
grmges.xfqmsymqskmqbfftmferkfp gk,mbyum se .nbgpmgqpmabxpmramqpemxpesgk,
gqpepmlbkmcpetmnsggnpmxrepmaremqsxmgrmur,mgqbymgrmgpnnmqpem qeskgsby
ybxp,mbyumkbtmlqrkpmx.ks mkqpmfesy sfbnntmfnbtpuw

XewmPngrymepg.eypu,mbmcpetmqbfftmxbywmQpmqbumdrypmblbtmepzp gpumbyu
xregsaspu--uskbffrsygpumsymbmcpetmkbyd.sypmqrfp,mbagpembmkpespkmramlqbg
bffpbepumgrmqsxmkgerydmpy r.ebdpxpyg;mbyumyrgmryntmnrksydmgqpmesdqg
nbut,mv.gmasyusydmqsxkpnamupvbkpumgrmgqpmnpcpnmrambmcpetmlerydmrypwmQp
qbumdrypmblbtmuppfntmraapyupu--qpm bxpmvb ompydbdpumgrmbyrgqpe--byu
grmbyrgqpembkmk.fpesre,mram r.ekp,mgrmgqpmasekg,mbkm.yupemk. q
 se .xkgby pkmlqbgmskmdbsypumbnlbtkmskmgrmlqbgmskmnrkgwmQpm bxpmvb omdbt
byumkpna-kbgskaspu,mpbdpembyumv.kt,m besydmyrgqsydmaremXskkmLrruqr.kp,
byumupatsydmXskkmKxsgqw

Gqpm qbexsydmB.d.kgbmQblosyk,msymbuusgsrymgrmbnnmgqpm.k.bnmbucbygbdpkmra
fpeap gmvpb.gtmbyumxpesg,mlbkmsymfrkkpkksrymrambymsyupfpyupygmareg.yp,
ramkrmxbytmgqr.kbyukmbkmlr.numbnlbtkmvpm bnnpumgpy;mbmfrsygmramkrxp
usdysgt,mbkmlpnnmbkmkrxpm rycpyspy p:mgqpmkgretmgrnumlpnn;mqpmqbumyrg
gqerlymqsxkpnamblbt--qpmqbumdbsypumbmlrxbymram10,000mnwmremgqpepbvr.gk;
byumqpmqbumdbsypumqpemlsgqmk. qmupnsdqga.nmebfsusgt--gqpmasekgmqr.emra
sygeru. gsrymqbumvppymkrmcpetmkrrymarnnrlpumvtmuskgsyd.skqsydmyrgs p;
gqpmqskgretmlqs qmqpmqbumgrmdscpmXekwm rnpmramgqpmeskpmbyumferdepkk
ramgqpmbaabsemlbkmkrmdnresr.k--gqpmkgpfkmkrmh.s o,maerxmgqpmb  supygbn
epy rygep,mgrmgqpmusyypembgmXewmDeppy'k,mbyumgqpmfbegtmbgmXekw
Verly'k--kxsnpkmbyumvn.kqpkmesksydmsymsxfregby p--lsgqm ryk sr.kypkkmbyu
bdsgbgsrymes qntmk bggpepu--gqpmnbutmqbumvppymkrmpbksntmsxfepkkpu--kr
klppgntmuskfrkpu--qbumsymkqreg,mgrm.kpmbmxrkgmsygpnnsdsvnpmfqebkp,
vppymkrmcpetmepbutmgrmqbcpmqsx,mgqbgmcbysgtmbyumfe.upy pmlpepmph.bnnt
 rygpygpuw

Qpmqbum b.dqgmvrgqmk.vkgby pmbyumkqburl--vrgqmareg.ypmbyumbaap gsry,mbyu
lbkmz.kgmgqpmqbfftmxbymqpmr.dqgmgrmvp;mgbnosydmryntmramqsxkpnambyu
qskmrlym ry peyk--pjfp gsydmgrmvpm rydebg.nbgpu--epbutmgrmvpmnb.dqpu
bg--byu,mlsgqm reusbn,mapbenpkkmkxsnpk,myrlmbuuepkksydmbnnmgqpmtr.yd
nbuspkmramgqpmfnb p,mgrmlqrx,mbmaplmlppokmbdr,mqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymxrep
 b.gsr.kntmdbnnbygw

Gqpmlpuusydmlbkmyrmuskgbygmpcpyg,mbkmgqpmfbegspkmqbumryntmgqpxkpncpkmgr
fnpbkp,mbyumyrgqsydmv.gmgqpmyp pkkbetmfepfbebgsrykmgrmlbsgmare;mbyu
lqpymqpmkpgmr.gmaremVbgqmbdbsy,mgqpepmlbkmbmdpypebnmpjfp gbgsry,mlqs q
bm pegbsymdnby pmramXekwm rnp'kmusumyrgmkppxmgrm rygebus g,mgqbgmlqpymqp
ypjgmpygpepumQsdqv.etmqpmlr.numvesydmqskmvesupw

U.esydmqskmfepkpygmkqregmkgbt,mPxxbmqbumvbepntmkppymqsx;mv.gmz.kgmpyr.dq
grmappnmgqbgmgqpmasekgmxppgsydmlbkmrcpe,mbyumgrmdscpmqpemgqpmsxfepkksry
ramqskmyrgmvpsydmsxfercpumvtmgqpmxsjg.epmramfsh.pmbyumfepgpyksry,myrl
kfepbumrcpemqskmbsewmKqpmlbk,msymab g,mvpdsyysydmcpetmx. qmgrmlryupe
gqbgmkqpmqbumpcpemgqr.dqgmqsxmfnpbksydmbgmbnn;mbyumqskmksdqgmlbkmkr
sykpfbebvntm ryyp gpumlsgqmkrxpmcpetmuskbdeppbvnpmappnsydk,mgqbg,
pj pfgmsymbmxrebnmnsdqg,mbkmbmfpyby p,mbmnpkkry,mbmkr.e pmramferasgbvnp
q.xsnsbgsrymgrmqpemrlymxsyu,mkqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymgqbyoa.nmgrmvpmbkk.epu
ramypcpemkppsydmqsxmbdbsywmKqpmlskqpumqsxmcpetmlpnn;mv.gmqpmdbcp
qpemfbsy,mbyumqskmlpnabepmglpygtmxsnpkmraamlr.numbuxsyskgpemxrkg
kbgskab gsryw

Gqpmfbsymramqskm rygsy.pumepksupy pmsymQsdqv.et,mqrlpcpe,mx.kg
 pegbsyntmvpmnpkkpypumvtmqskmxbeesbdpwmXbytmcbsymkrns sg.upkmlr.numvp
fepcpygpu--xbytmblolbeuypkkpkmkxrrgqpumvtmsgwmBm_Xekw_m_Pngry_mlr.nu
vpmbympj .kpmarembytm qbydpmramsygpe r.ekp;marexpemsygsxb tmxsdqgmksyo
lsgqr.gmepxbeowmSgmlr.numvpmbnxrkgmvpdsyysydmgqpsemnsapmram scsnsgt
bdbsyw

Ramgqpmnbut,msyuscsu.bnnt,mPxxbmgqr.dqgmcpetmnsggnpwmKqpmlbkmdrrumpyr.dq
aremXewmPngry,myrmur.vg;mb  rxfnskqpumpyr.dqmaremQsdqv.et--qbyukrxp
pyr.dq--grmnrromfnbsy,mfervbvnt,mvtmQbeespg'kmksupwmBkmgrm ryypjsry,
gqpepmPxxbmlbkmfpeap gntmpbkt;mfpek.bupu,mgqbgmbagpembnnmqskmrlymcb.ygpu
 nbsxkmbyumuskubsymramQbeespg,mqpmqbumurypmyrgqsydwmRymgqbgmbegs np,
ge.gqmkppxpumbggbsybvnpwm_Lqbg_mkqpmlbk,mx.kgmvpm.y pegbsy;mv.gm_lqr_
kqpmlbk,mxsdqgmvpmar.yumr.g;mbyumkpggsydmbksupmgqpm10,000mnw,msgmusumyrg
bffpbemgqbgmkqpmlbkmbgmbnnmQbeespg'kmk.fpesrewmKqpmver.dqgmyrmybxp,myr
vnrru,myrmbnnsby pwmXskkmQblosykmlbkmgqpmtr.ydpkgmramgqpmglrmub.dqgpek
rambmVeskgrn--xpe qbyg,mram r.ekp,mqpmx.kgmvpm bnnpu;mv.g,mbkmgqpmlqrnp
ramgqpmferasgkmramqskmxpe bygsnpmnsapmbffpbepumkrmcpetmxrupebgp,msg
lbkmyrgm.yabsemgrmd.pkkmgqpmusdysgtmramqskmnsypmramgebupmqbumvppymcpet
xrupebgpmbnkrwmFbegmrampcpetmlsygpemkqpmqbumvppym.kpumgrmkfpyumsymVbgq;
v.gmVeskgrnmlbkmqpemqrxp,mgqpmcpetmqpbegmramVeskgrn;maremgqr.dqmgqp
abgqpembyumxrgqpemqbumuspumkrxpmtpbekmbdr,mbym.y npmepxbsypu--symgqpmnbl
nsyp--yrgqsydmxrepmuskgsy gntmqryr.ebvnpmlbkmqbibeupumramqsx,mgqby
gqbgmqpmlbkmsymgqpmnblmnsyp;mbyumlsgqmqsxmgqpmub.dqgpemqbumnscpuwmPxxb
d.pkkpumqsxmgrmvpmgqpmue.udpmramkrxpmbggreypt,mbyumgrrmkg.fsumgrmeskpw
Byumbnnmgqpmdebyup.emramgqpm ryypjsrymkppxpumupfpyupygmrymgqpmpnupe
kskgpe,mlqrmlbkm_cpet_m_lpnn_m_xbeespu_,mgrmbmdpygnpxbymsymbm_depbg_
_lbt_,mypbemVeskgrn,mlqrmopfgmglrm beesbdpk!mGqbgmlbkmgqpmlsyu-.fmramgqp
qskgret;mgqbgmlbkmgqpmdnretmramXskkmQblosykw

 r.numkqpmv.gmqbcpmdscpymQbeespgmqpemappnsydkmbvr.gmsgmbnn!mKqpmqbu
gbnopumqpemsygrmnrcp;mv.g,mbnbk!mkqpmlbkmyrgmkrmpbksntmgrmvpmgbnopumr.g
ramsgwmGqpm qbexmrambymrvzp gmgrmr  .ftmgqpmxbytmcb by spkmramQbeespg'k
xsyumlbkmyrgmgrmvpmgbnopumblbtwmQpmxsdqgmvpmk.fpekpupumvtmbyrgqpe;mqp
 pegbsyntmlr.numsyuppu;myrgqsydm r.numvpm npbepe;mpcpymbmErvpegmXbegsy
lr.numqbcpmvppymk.aas spyg;mv.gmyrgqsydmpnkp,mkqpmapbepu,mlr.num .ep
qpewmQbeespgmlbkmrypmramgqrkp,mlqr,mqbcsydmry pmvpd.y,mlr.numvpmbnlbtk
symnrcpwmByumyrl,mfrremdsen!mkqpmlbkm ryksupebvntmlrekpmaerxmgqsk
epbffpbeby pmramXewmPngrywmKqpmlbkmbnlbtkmqbcsydmbmdnsxfkpmramqsx
krxplqpepmremrgqpewmPxxbmkblmqsxmryntmry p;mv.gmglrmremgqeppmgsxpkmpcpet
ubtmQbeespgmlbkmk.epm_z.kg_mgrmxppgmlsgqmqsx,mrem_z.kg_mgrmxskkmqsx,
_z.kg_mgrmqpbemqskmcrs p,mremkppmqskmkqr.nupe,m_z.kg_mgrmqbcpmkrxpgqsyd
r  .emgrmfepkpecpmqsxmsymqpemaby t,msymbnnmgqpmabcr.esydmlbexgqmra
k.efesipmbyum ryzp g.epwmKqpmlbk,mxreprcpe,mfpefpg.bnntmqpbesydmbvr.g
qsx;mare,mpj pfgsydmlqpymbgmQbegaspnu,mkqpmlbkmbnlbtkmbxrydmgqrkpmlqr
kblmyrmab.ngmsymXewmPngry,mbyumar.yumyrgqsydmkrmsygpepkgsydmbk
gqpmusk .kksrymramqskm ry peyk;mbyumpcpetmepfreg,mgqpeparep,mpcpet
d.pkk--bnnmgqbgmqbumbnepbutmr  .eepu,mbnnmgqbgmxsdqgmr  .emsymgqp
beebydpxpygmramqskmbaabsek,m rxfepqpyusydmsy rxp,mkpecbygk,mbyu
a.eysg.ep,mlbkm rygsy.bnntmsymbdsgbgsrymber.yumqpewmQpemepdbeumlbk
ep pscsydmkgepydgqmvtmsycbesbvnpmfebskpmramqsx,mbyumqpemepdepgkmopfg
bnscp,mbyumappnsydkmseesgbgpumvtm pbkpnpkkmepfpgsgsrykmramXskk
Qblosyk'kmqbffsypkk,mbyum rygsy.bnmrvkpecbgsrymra,mqrlmx. qmqpmkppxpu
bggb qpu!--qskmbsembkmqpmlbnopumvtmgqpmqr.kp--gqpmcpetmksggsydmramqsk
qbg,mvpsydmbnnmsymferramramqrlmx. qmqpmlbkmsymnrcp!

Qbumsgmvppymbnnrlbvnpmpygpegbsyxpyg,mqbumgqpepmvppymyrmfbsymgrmqpe
aespyu,mremepferb qmgrmqpekpna,msymgqpmlbcpesydkmramQbeespg'kmxsyu,
Pxxbmlr.numqbcpmvppymbx.kpumvtmsgkmcbesbgsrykwmKrxpgsxpkmXewmPngry
fepurxsybgpu,mkrxpgsxpkmgqpmXbegsyk;mbyumpb qmlbkmr  bksrybnntm.kpa.n
bkmbm qp omgrmgqpmrgqpewmXewmPngry'kmpydbdpxpygmqbumvppymgqpm .epmra
gqpmbdsgbgsrymramxppgsydmXewmXbegsywmGqpm.yqbffsypkkmferu. pumvtmgqp
oyrlnpudpmramgqbgmpydbdpxpygmqbumvppymbmnsggnpmf.gmbksupmvtmPnsibvpgq
Xbegsy'km bnnsydmbgmXekwmDruubeu'kmbmaplmubtkmbagpelbeukwmQbeespgmqbu
yrgmvppymbgmqrxp;mv.gmbmyrgpmqbumvppymfepfbepumbyumnpagmaremqpe,mlesggpy
symgqpmcpetmkgtnpmgrmgr. q;mbmkxbnnmxsjg.epmramepferb q,mlsgqmbmdepbg
upbnmramosyuypkk;mbyumgsnnmXewmPngrymqsxkpnambffpbepu,mkqpmqbumvppymx. q
r  .fspumvtmsg,m rygsy.bnntmfryupesydmrcpemlqbgm r.numvpmurypmsymepg.ey,
byumlskqsydmgrmurmxrepmgqbymkqpmubepumgrm ryapkkwmV.gmXewmPngry,msy
fpekry,mqbumuescpymblbtmbnnmk. qm bepkwmLqsnpmqpmkgbsu,mgqpmXbegsykmlpep
aredrggpy;mbyumrymgqpmcpetmxreysydmramqskmkpggsydmraamaremVbgqmbdbsy,
Pxxb,mgrmuskksfbgpmkrxpmramgqpmuskgepkkmsgmr  bksrypu,mz.udpumsgmvpkg
aremqpemgrmepg.eymPnsibvpgqmXbegsy'kmcsksgw

Qrlmgqbgmcsksgmlbkmgrmvpmb oyrlnpudpu--lqbgmlr.numvpmyp pkkbet--byu
lqbgmxsdqgmvpmkbapkg,mqbumvppymbmfrsygmramkrxpmur.vga.nm ryksupebgsryw
Bvkrn.gpmypdnp gmramgqpmxrgqpembyumkskgpek,mlqpymsycsgpumgrm rxp,mlr.nu
vpmsydebgsg.upwmSgmx.kgmyrgmvp:mbyumtpgmgqpmubydpemrambmepyplbnmramgqp
b h.bsygby p--!

Bagpemx. qmgqsyosyd,mkqpm r.numupgpexsypmrymyrgqsydmvpggpe,mgqby
Qbeespg'kmepg.eysydmgqpmcsksg;mv.gmsymbmlbtmgqbg,msamgqptmqbu
.yupekgbyusyd,mkqr.num rycsy pmgqpxmgqbgmsgmlbkmgrmvpmryntmbmarexbn
b h.bsygby pwmKqpmxpbygmgrmgbopmqpemsymgqpm beesbdp,mnpbcpmqpembgmgqp
BvvptmXsnn,mlqsnpmkqpmuercpmbmnsggnpmabegqpe,mbyum bnnmaremqpembdbsy
krmkrry,mbkmgrmbnnrlmyrmgsxpmaremsyksusr.kmbffns bgsrykmremubydper.k
ep .eepy pkmgrmgqpmfbkg,mbyumdscpmgqpmxrkgmup supumferramramlqbgmupdepp
ramsygsxb tmlbkm qrkpymaremgqpma.g.epw

Kqpm r.numgqsyomramyrgqsydmvpggpe:mbyumgqr.dqmgqpepmlbkmkrxpgqsydmsymsg
lqs qmqpemrlymqpbegm r.numyrgmbffercp--krxpgqsydmramsydebgsg.up,mxpepnt
dnrkkpumrcpe--sgmx.kgmvpmuryp,mremlqbgmlr.numvp rxpmramQbeespg?



 QBFGPEmC


KxbnnmqpbegmqbumQbeespgmaremcsksgsydwmRyntmqbnambymqr.emvparepmqpe
aespyum bnnpumaremqpembgmXekwmDruubeu'k,mqpempcsnmkgbekmqbumnpumqpe
grmgqpmcpetmkfrgmlqpep,mbgmgqbgmxrxpyg,mbmge.yo,musep gpumgrm_GqpmEpcw
FqsnsfmPngry,mLqsgp-Qbeg,mVbgq_,mlbkmgrmvpmkppym.yupemgqpmrfpebgsrymra
vpsydmnsagpumsygrmgqpmv.g qpe'km beg,mlqs qmlbkmgrm rycptmsgmgrmlqpep
gqpm rb qpkmfbkg;mbyumpcpetmgqsydmsymgqskmlrenu,mpj pfgsydmgqbgmge.yo
byumgqpmusep gsry,mlbkm rykph.pygntmbmvnbyow

Kqpmlpyg,mqrlpcpe;mbyumlqpymgqptmepb qpumgqpmabex,mbyumkqpmlbkmgrmvp
f.gmurly,mbgmgqpmpyumramgqpmverbu,mypbgmdebcpnmlbno,mlqs qmnpumvpglppy
pkfbnspembffnp-geppkmgrmgqpmaerygmurre,mgqpmksdqgmrampcpetmgqsydmlqs q
qbumdscpymqpemkrmx. qmfnpbk.epmgqpmb.g.xymvparep,mlbkmvpdsyysydmgr
epcscpmbmnsggnpmnr bnmbdsgbgsry;mbyumlqpymgqptmfbegpu,mPxxbmrvkpecpumqpe
grmvpmnrrosydmber.yumlsgqmbmkregmramapbea.nm .esrksgt,mlqs qmupgpexsypu
qpemyrgmgrmbnnrlmgqpmcsksgmgrmpj ppumgqpmferfrkpumh.begpemrambymqr.ew
Kqpmlpygmrymqpekpna,mgrmdscpmgqbgmfregsrymramgsxpmgrmbymrnumkpecbygmlqr
lbkmxbeespu,mbyumkpggnpumsymUrylpnnw

Gqpmh.begpemrambymqr.emver.dqgmqpemf.y g.bnntmgrmgqpmlqsgpmdbgpmbdbsy;
byumXskkmKxsgqmep pscsydmqpemk.xxryk,mlbkmlsgqmqpemlsgqr.gmupnbt,mbyu
.ybggpyupumvtmbytmbnbexsydmtr.ydmxbywmKqpm bxpmkrnsgbesntmurlymgqp
debcpnmlbno--bmXskkmXbegsymz.kgmbffpbesydmbgmgqpmurre,mbyumfbegsydmlsgq
qpemkppxsydntmlsgqm pepxrysr.km scsnsgtw

Qbeespgm r.numyrgmcpetmkrrymdscpmbymsygpnnsdsvnpmb  r.ygwmKqpmlbk
appnsydmgrrmx. q;mv.gmbgmnbkgmPxxbm rnnp gpumaerxmqpempyr.dqmgr
.yupekgbyumgqpmkregmramxppgsyd,mbyumgqpmkregmramfbsymsgmlbkm epbgsydw
KqpmqbumkppymryntmXekwmXbegsymbyumgqpmglrmdsenkwmGqptmqbumep pscpumqpe
ur.vgsydnt,msamyrgm rrnnt;mbyumyrgqsydmvptryumgqpmxpepkgm rxxryfnb pmqbu
vppymgbnopumbnxrkgmbnnmgqpmgsxp--gsnnmz.kgmbgmnbkg,mlqpymXekwmXbegsy'k
kbtsyd,mbnnmrambmk.uupy,mgqbgmkqpmgqr.dqgmXskkmKxsgqmlbkmderly,mqbu
ver.dqgmrymbmxrepmsygpepkgsydmk.vzp g,mbyumbmlbexpemxbyypewmSymgqbgmcpet
errxmkqpmqbumvppymxpbk.epumnbkgmKpfgpxvpe,mlsgqmqpemglrmaespyukwmGqpep
lpepmgqpmfpy snnpumxbeokmbyumxpxrebyu.xkmrymgqpmlbsyk rgmvtmgqpmlsyurlw
_Qp_mqbumurypmsgwmGqptmbnnmkppxpumgrmepxpxvpemgqpmubt,mgqpmqr.e,
gqpmfbegt,mgqpmr  bksry--grmappnmgqpmkbxpm ryk sr.kypkk,mgqpmkbxp
epdepgk--grmvpmepbutmgrmepg.eymgrmgqpmkbxpmdrrum.yupekgbyusyd;mbyumgqpt
lpepmz.kgmderlsydmbdbsymnsopmgqpxkpncpk,m(Qbeespg,mbkmPxxbmx.kgmk.kfp g,
bkmepbutmbkmgqpmvpkgmramgqpxmgrmvpm reusbnmbyumqbfft,)mlqpymgqpm beesbdp
epbffpbepu,mbyumbnnmlbkmrcpewmGqpmkgtnpmramgqpmcsksg,mbyumgqpmkqregypkk
ramsg,mlpepmgqpymapngmgrmvpmup skscpwmAr.egppymxsy.gpkmgrmvpmdscpy
grmgqrkpmlsgqmlqrxmkqpmqbumgqbyoa.nntmfbkkpumksjmlppokmyrgmksjmxrygqk
bdr!--Pxxbm r.numyrgmv.gmfs g.epmsgmbnn,mbyumappnmqrlmz.kgntmgqptmxsdqg
epkpyg,mqrlmybg.ebnntmQbeespgmx.kgmk.aapewmSgmlbkmbmvbumv.ksypkkwmKqp
lr.numqbcpmdscpymbmdepbgmupbn,mrempyu.epumbmdepbgmupbn,mgrmqbcpmqbu
gqpmXbegsykmsymbmqsdqpemebyomramnsapwmGqptmlpepmkrmupkpecsyd,mgqbgmb
_nsggnp_mqsdqpemkqr.numqbcpmvppympyr.dq:mv.gmbkmsgmlbk,mqrlm r.numkqp
qbcpmurypmrgqpelskp?--Sxfrkksvnp!--Kqpm r.numyrgmepfpygwmGqptmx.kgmvp
kpfbebgpu;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbmdepbgmupbnmramfbsymsymgqpmfer pkk--krmx. q
grmqpekpnambgmgqskmgsxp,mgqbgmkqpmkrrymapngmgqpmyp pkksgtmrambmnsggnp
 rykrnbgsry,mbyumepkrncpumrymdrsydmqrxpmvtmlbtmramEbyubnnkmgr
fer .epmsgwmQpemxsyumlbkmh.sgpmks omramXewmPngrymbyumgqpmXbegsykwmGqp
epaepkqxpygmramEbyubnnkmlbkmbvkrn.gpntmyp pkkbetw

Sgmlbkmbmdrrumk qpxp;mv.gmrymuescsydmgrmgqpmurremgqptmqpbeumgqbgmypsgqpe
“xbkgpemyremxskgepkkmlbkmbgmqrxp;”mgqptmqbumvrgqmvppymr.gmkrxpmgsxp;mgqp
xbymvpnspcpumgqptmlpepmdrypmgrmQbegaspnuw

“Gqskmskmgrrmvbu,”m espumPxxb,mbkmgqptmg.eypumblbtwm“Byumyrlmlpmkqbnn
z.kgmxskkmgqpx;mgrrmfercrosyd!--SmurmyrgmoyrlmlqpymSmqbcpmvppymkr
uskbffrsygpuw”mByumkqpmnpbypumvb omsymgqpm reype,mgrmsyu.ndpmqpe
x.ex.ek,mremgrmepbkrymgqpxmblbt;mfervbvntmbmnsggnpmramvrgq--k. qmvpsyd
gqpm rxxrypkgmfer pkkmrambmyrgmsnn-uskfrkpumxsyuwmFepkpygntmgqpm beesbdp
kgrfg;mkqpmnrropum.f;msgmlbkmkgrfgmvtmXewmbyumXekwmLpkgry,mlqrmlpep
kgbyusydmgrmkfpbomgrmqpewmGqpepmlbkmsykgbygmfnpbk.epmsymgqpmksdqgmra
gqpx,mbyumkgsnnmdepbgpemfnpbk.epmlbkm rycptpumsymkr.yu--aremXewmLpkgry
sxxpusbgpntmb  rkgpumqpemlsgq,

“Qrlmu'tpmur?--qrlmu'tpmur?--Lpmqbcpmvppymksggsydmlsgqmtr.emabgqpe--dnbu
grmkppmqsxmkrmlpnnwmAebyom rxpkmgr-xreerl--Smqbumbmnpggpemgqsk
xreysyd--lpmkppmqsxmgr-xreerlmvtmusyype-gsxpmgrmbm pegbsygt--qpmskmbg
Rjareumgr-ubt,mbyumqpm rxpkmarembmlqrnpmaregysdqg;mSmoyplmsgmlr.numvp
krwmSamqpmqbum rxpmbgm qeskgxbkmqpm r.numyrgmqbcpmkgbsumgqeppmubtk;mS
lbkmbnlbtkmdnbumqpmusumyrgm rxpmbgm qeskgxbk;myrlmlpmbepmdrsydmgrmqbcp
z.kgmgqpmesdqgmlpbgqpemaremqsx,masyp,muet,mkpggnpumlpbgqpewmLpmkqbnn
pyzrtmqsxm rxfnpgpnt;mpcpetmgqsydmqbkmg.eypumr.gmpjb gntmbkmlpm r.nu
lskqw”

Gqpepmlbkmyrmepkskgsydmk. qmyplk,myrmfrkksvsnsgtmrambcrsusydmgqp
syan.py pmramk. qmbmqbfftmab pmbkmXewmLpkgry'k,m ryasexpumbkmsgmbnnmlbk
vtmgqpmlreukmbyumgqpm r.ygpyby pmramqskmlsap,maplpembyumh.spgpe,mv.gmyrg
npkkmgrmgqpmf.efrkpwmGrmoyrlmgqbgm_kqp_mgqr.dqgmqskm rxsydm pegbsymlbk
pyr.dqmgrmxbopmPxxbm ryksupemsgmkr,mbyumksy pepntmusumkqpmepzrs pmsy
gqpsemzrtwmSgmlbkmbmxrkgmupnsdqga.nmepbysxbgsrymrampjqb.kgpumkfsesgkw
Gqpmlrey-r.gmfbkgmlbkmk.yomsymgqpmaepkqypkkmramlqbgmlbkm rxsyd;mbyumsy
gqpmebfsusgtmramqbnambmxrxpyg'kmgqr.dqg,mkqpmqrfpumXewmPngrymlr.numyrl
vpmgbnopumramyrmxrepw

XewmLpkgrymdbcpmqpemgqpmqskgretmramgqpmpydbdpxpygkmbgmPyk rxvp,mlqs q
bnnrlpumqskmkrymgrmbyklpemaremqbcsydmbympygsepmaregysdqgmbgmqskm rxxbyu,
bkmlpnnmbkmgqpmer.gpmbyumgqpmxpgqrumramqskmzr.eypt;mbyumkqpmnskgpypu,
byumkxsnpu,mbyum rydebg.nbgpuw

“SmkqbnnmkrrymvesydmqsxmrcpemgrmQbegaspnu,”mkbsumqp,mbgmgqpm ry n.ksryw

Pxxbm r.numsxbdsypmkqpmkblmbmgr. qmramgqpmbexmbgmgqskmkfpp q,maerxmqsk
lsapw

“Lpmqbumvpggpemxrcpmry,mXewmLpkgry,”mkbsumkqp,m“lpmbepmupgbsysydmgqp
dsenkw”

“Lpnn,mlpnn,mSmbxmepbut;”--byumg.eysydmbdbsymgrmPxxb,m“v.gmtr.mx.kg
yrgmvpmpjfp gsydmk. qmbm_cpet_masypmtr.ydmxby;mtr.mqbcpmrynt
qbum_xt_mb  r.ygmtr.moyrl;mSmubepmkbtmqpmskmepbnntmyrgqsyd
pjgebreusybet:”--gqr.dqmqskmrlymkfbeonsydmptpkmbgmgqpmxrxpygmlpep
kfpbosydmbmcpetmusaapepygm rycs gsryw

Pxxbm r.numnrromfpeap gntm.y ryk sr.kmbyumsyyr pyg,mbyumbyklpemsymb
xbyypemgqbgmbfferfesbgpumyrgqsydw

“Gqsyomramxpmgr-xreerl,mxtmupbemPxxb,mbvr.gmar.emr' nr o,”mlbkmXekw
Lpkgry'kmfbegsydmsyz.y gsry;mkfropymlsgqmkrxpmbyjspgt,mbyumxpbygmrynt
aremqpew

“Ar.emr' nr o!--upfpyum.frymsgmqpmlsnnmvpmqpepmvtmgqepp,”mlbkmXew
Lpkgry'kmh.s ombxpyuxpyg;mbyumkrmpyupumbmxrkgmkbgskab gretmxppgsydw
Pxxb'kmkfsesgkmlpepmxr.ygpumh.sgpm.fmgrmqbffsypkk;mpcpetmgqsydmlrep
bmusaapepygmbse;mZbxpkmbyumqskmqrekpkmkppxpumyrgmqbnamkrmkn.ddskqmbk
vparepwmLqpymkqpmnrropumbgmgqpmqpudpk,mkqpmgqr.dqgmgqpmpnupembgmnpbkg
x.kgmkrrymvpm rxsydmr.g;mbyumlqpymkqpmg.eypumer.yumgrmQbeespg,mkqpmkbl
krxpgqsydmnsopmbmnrromramkfesyd,mbmgpyupemkxsnpmpcpymgqpepw

“LsnnmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmfbkkmgqer.dqmVbgqmbkmlpnnmbkmRjareu?”--lbkmb
h.pkgsry,mqrlpcpe,mlqs qmusumyrgmb.d.emx. qw

V.gmypsgqpemdprdebfqtmyremgebyh.snnsgtm r.num rxpmbnnmbgmry p,mbyumPxxb
lbkmyrlmsymbmq.xr.emgrmepkrncpmgqbgmgqptmkqr.numvrgqm rxpmsymgsxpw

Gqpmxreysydmramgqpmsygpepkgsydmubtmbeescpu,mbyumXekwmLpkgry'kmabsgqa.n
f.fsnmusumyrgmaredpgmpsgqpembgmgpy,mrempnpcpy,mremglpncpmr' nr o,mgqbg
kqpmlbkmgrmgqsyomramqpembgmar.ew

“Xtmupbe,mupbembyjsr.kmaespyu,”--kbsumkqp,msymxpygbnmkrnsnrh.t,mlqsnp
lbnosydmurlykgbsekmaerxmqpemrlymerrx,m“bnlbtkmrcpe bepa.nmarempcpet
vrut'km rxaregmv.gmtr.emrly;mSmkppmtr.myrlmsymbnnmtr.emnsggnpmasudpgk,
drsydmbdbsymbyumbdbsymsygrmqskmerrx,mgrmvpmk.epmgqbgmbnnmskmesdqgw”
mGqpm nr omkge. omglpncpmbkmkqpmfbkkpumgqer.dqmgqpmqbnnwm“'Gskmglpncp;
Smkqbnnmyrgmaredpgmgrmgqsyomramtr.mar.emqr.ekmqpy p;mbyumvtmgqsk
gsxpmgr-xreerl,mfpeqbfk,mrembmnsggnpmnbgpe,mSmxbtmvpmgqsyosydmramgqp
frkksvsnsgtmramgqpsembnnm bnnsydmqpepwmSmbxmk.epmgqptmlsnnmvesydmqsx
krryw”

Kqpmrfpypumgqpmfbenr.emurre,mbyumkblmglrmdpygnpxpymksggsydmlsgqmqpe
abgqpe--XewmLpkgrymbyumqskmkrywmGqptmqbumvppymbeescpumryntmbmapl
xsy.gpk,mbyumXewmLpkgrymqbumk be pntmasyskqpumqskmpjfnbybgsrymramAebyo'k
vpsydmbmubtmvparepmqskmgsxp,mbyumqpemabgqpemlbkmtpgmsymgqpmxsukgmramqsk
cpetm scsnmlpn rxpmbyum rydebg.nbgsryk,mlqpymkqpmbffpbepu,mgrmqbcpmqpe
kqbepmramk.efesip,msygeru. gsry,mbyumfnpbk.epw

GqpmAebyom q.e qsnnmkrmnrydmgbnopumra,mkrmqsdqmsymsygpepkg,mlbkmb g.bnnt
vparepmqpe--qpmlbkmfepkpygpumgrmqpe,mbyumkqpmusumyrgmgqsyomgrrmx. qmqbu
vppymkbsumsymqskmfebskp;mqpmlbkmbm_cpet_mdrrumnrrosydmtr.ydmxby;mqpsdqg,
bse,mbuuepkk,mbnnmlpepm.ypj pfgsrybvnp,mbyumqskm r.ygpyby pmqbumbmdepbg
upbnmramgqpmkfsesgmbyumnscpnsypkkmramqskmabgqpe'k;mqpmnrropumh.s ombyu
kpyksvnpwmKqpmapngmsxxpusbgpntmgqbgmkqpmkqr.numnsopmqsx;mbyumgqpepmlbk
bmlpnn-vepumpbkpmramxbyype,mbyumbmepbusypkkmgrmgbno,mlqs qm rycsy pumqpe
gqbgmqpm bxpmsygpyusydmgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpe,mbyumgqbgmb h.bsygpu
gqptmkrrymx.kgmvpw

Qpmqbumepb qpumEbyubnnkmgqpmpcpysydmvparepwmKqpmlbkmfnpbkpumlsgqmgqp
pbdpeypkkmgrmbeescpmlqs qmqbumxbupmqsxmbngpemqskmfnby,mbyumgebcpn
pbenspe,mnbgpe,mbyumh.s ope,mgqbgmqpmxsdqgmdbsymqbnambmubtw

“Smgrnumtr.mtpkgpeubt,”m espumXewmLpkgrymlsgqmpj.ngbgsry,m“Smgrnumtr.
bnnmgqbgmqpmlr.numvpmqpepmvparepmgqpmgsxpmybxpuwmSmepxpxvpepumlqbgmS
.kpumgrmurmxtkpnawmRypm byyrgm eppfm.frymbmzr.eypt;mrypm byyrgmqpnf
dpggsydmrymabkgpemgqbymrypmqbkmfnbyypu;mbyumgqpmfnpbk.epmram rxsydmsy
.frymryp'kmaespyukmvparepmgqpmnrro-r.gmvpdsyk,mskmlregqmbmdepbgmupbn
xrepmgqbymbytmnsggnpmpjpegsrymsgmyppukw”

“Sgmskmbmdepbgmfnpbk.epmlqpepmrypm bymsyu.ndpmsymsg,”mkbsumgqpmtr.yd
xby,m“gqr.dqmgqpepmbepmyrgmxbytmqr.kpkmgqbgmSmkqr.numfepk.xpmrymkrmabe;
v.gmsym rxsydm_qrxp_mSmapngmSmxsdqgmurmbytmgqsydw”

Gqpmlreum_qrxp_mxbupmqskmabgqpemnrromrymqsxmlsgqmaepkqm rxfnb py tw
Pxxbmlbkmusep gntmk.epmgqbgmqpmoyplmqrlmgrmxbopmqsxkpnambdeppbvnp;mgqp
 rycs gsrymlbkmkgepydgqpypumvtmlqbgmarnnrlpuwmQpmlbkmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpu
lsgqmEbyubnnk,mgqr.dqgmsgmbmxrkgmbuxsebvntmbeebydpumqr.kp,mlr.numqbeunt
bnnrlmsgmpcpymgrmvpmcpetmkxbnn,mbuxsepumgqpmksg.bgsry,mgqpmlbnomgr
Qsdqv.et,mQsdqv.etmsgkpna,mQbegaspnumkgsnnmxrep,mbyumferapkkpumqsxkpna
grmqbcpmbnlbtkmapngmgqpmkregmramsygpepkgmsymgqpm r.ygetmlqs qmyrypmv.g
ryp'km_rly_m r.ygetmdscpk,mbyumgqpmdepbgpkgm .esrksgtmgrmcsksgmsgwmGqbg
qpmkqr.numypcpemqbcpmvppymbvnpmgrmsyu.ndpmkrmbxsbvnpmbmappnsydmvparep,
fbkkpumk.kfs sr.kntmgqer.dqmPxxb'kmvebsy;mv.gmkgsnn,msamsgmlpepmb
abnkpqrru,msgmlbkmbmfnpbkbygmryp,mbyumfnpbkbygntmqbyunpuwmQskmxbyypemqbu
yrmbsemramkg.utmrempjbddpebgsrywmQpmusumepbnntmnrrombyumkfpbombkmsamsymb
kgbgpmramyrm rxxrympyzrtxpygw

Gqpsemk.vzp gkmsymdpypebnmlpepmk. qmbkmvpnrydmgrmbymrfpysyd
b h.bsygby pwmRymqskmksupmlpepmgqpmsyh.sespk,--“Lbkmkqpmb
qrekplrxby?--Fnpbkbygmesupk?--Fnpbkbygmlbnok?--Qbumgqptmbmnbedp
ypsdqvr.eqrru?--Qsdqv.et,mfpeqbfk,mbaareupumkr spgtmpyr.dq?--Gqpepmlpep
kpcpebnmcpetmfepggtmqr.kpkmsymbyumbvr.gmsgw--Vbnnk--qbumgqptmvbnnk?--Lbk
sgmbmx.ks bnmkr spgt?”

V.gmlqpymkbgskaspumrymbnnmgqpkpmfrsygk,mbyumgqpsemb h.bsygby p
ferfregsrybvntmbucby pu,mqpm rygescpumgrmasyumbymrffreg.ysgt,mlqsnp
gqpsemglrmabgqpekmlpepmpydbdpumlsgqmpb qmrgqpe,mramsygeru. sydmqsk
xrgqpe-sy-nbl,mbyumkfpbosydmramqpemlsgqmkrmx. qmqbyukrxpmfebskp,mkrmx. q
lbexmbuxsebgsry,mkrmx. qmdebgsg.upmaremgqpmqbffsypkkmkqpmkp .epumgrmqsk
abgqpe,mbyumqpemcpetmosyumep pfgsrymramqsxkpna,mbkmlbkmbymbuusgsrybn
ferramramqskmoyrlsydmqrlmgrmfnpbkp--byumramqskm pegbsyntmgqsyosydmsg
lregqmlqsnpmgrmgetmgrmfnpbkpmqpewmQpmusumyrgmbucby pmbmlreumramfebskp
vptryumlqbgmkqpmoyplmgrmvpmgqrer.dqntmupkpecpumvtmXekwmLpkgry;mv.g,
.yur.vgpuntmqpm r.numoyrlmcpetmnsggnpmramgqpmxbggpewmQpm.yupekgrru
lqbgmlr.numvpmlpn rxp;mqpm r.numvpmk.epmramnsggnpmpnkpwm“Qskmabgqpe'k
xbeesbdp,”mqpmkbsu,m“qbumvppymgqpmlskpkgmxpbk.ep,mpcpetmaespyumx.kg
epzrs pmsymsg;mbyumgqpmabxsntmaerxmlqrxmqpmqbumep pscpumk. qmbmvnpkksyd
x.kgmvpmpcpem ryksupepumbkmqbcsydm ryapeepumgqpmqsdqpkgmrvnsdbgsrymry
qsxw”

Qpmdrgmbkmypbembkmqpm r.numgrmgqbyosydmqpemaremXskkmGbtnre'kmxpesgk,
lsgqr.gmkppxsydmh.sgpmgrmaredpgmgqbgmsymgqpm rxxrym r.ekpmramgqsydkmsg
lbkmgrmvpmebgqpemk.ffrkpumgqbgmXskkmGbtnremqbumarexpumXskkmLrruqr.kp'k
 qbeb gpe,mgqbymXskkmLrruqr.kpmXskkmGbtnre'kwmByumbgmnbkg,mbkmsa
epkrncpumgrmh.bnsatmqskmrfsysrym rxfnpgpntmaremgebcpnnsydmer.yumgrmsgk
rvzp g,mqpmlr.yumsgmbnnm.fmlsgqmbkgryskqxpygmbgmgqpmtr.gqmbyumvpb.gtmra
qpemfpekryw

“Pnpdbyg,mbdeppbvnpmxbyypek,mSmlbkmfepfbepumare,”mkbsumqp;m“v.gmS
 ryapkkmgqbg,m ryksupesydmpcpetmgqsyd,mSmqbumyrgmpjfp gpumxrepmgqbymb
cpetmgrnpebvntmlpnn-nrrosydmlrxbymrambm pegbsymbdp;mSmusumyrgmoyrlmgqbg
Smlbkmgrmasyumbmfepggtmtr.ydmlrxbymsymXekwmLpkgryw”

“Tr.m byyrgmkppmgrrmx. qmfpeap gsrymsymXekwmLpkgrymaremxtmappnsydk,”
mkbsumPxxb;m“lpepmtr.mgrmd.pkkmqpemgrmvpm_psdqgppy_,mSmkqr.numnskgpymlsgq
fnpbk.ep;mv.gm_kqp_mlr.numvpmepbutmgrmh.beepnmlsgqmtr.marem.ksydmk. q
lreukwmUry'gmnpgmqpemsxbdsypmgqbgmtr.mqbcpmkfropymramqpembkmbmfepggt
tr.ydmlrxbyw”

“SmqrfpmSmkqr.numoyrlmvpggpe,”mqpmepfnspu;m“yr,mupfpyum.frymsg,m(lsgqmb
dbnnbygmvrl,)mgqbgmsymbuuepkksydmXekwmLpkgrymSmkqr.num.yupekgbyumlqrx
Smxsdqgmfebskpmlsgqr.gmbytmubydpemramvpsydmgqr.dqgmpjgebcbdbygmsymxt
gpexkw”

Pxxbmlryupepumlqpgqpemgqpmkbxpmk.kfs srymramlqbgmxsdqgmvpmpjfp gpumaerx
gqpsemoyrlsydmpb qmrgqpe,mlqs qmqbumgbopymkgerydmfrkkpkksrymramqpemxsyu,
qbumpcpem erkkpumqsk;mbyumlqpgqpemqskm rxfnsxpygkmlpepmgrmvpm ryksupepu
bkmxbeokmramb h.spk py p,mremferrakmramupasby pwmKqpmx.kgmkppmxrep
ramqsxmgrm.yupekgbyumqskmlbtk;mbgmfepkpygmkqpmryntmapngmgqptmlpep
bdeppbvnpw

Kqpmqbumyrmur.vgmramlqbgmXewmLpkgrymlbkmragpymgqsyosydmbvr.gwmQskmh.s o
ptpmkqpmupgp gpumbdbsymbyumbdbsymdnby sydmgrlbeukmgqpxmlsgqmbmqbfft
pjfepkksry;mbyumpcpy,mlqpymqpmxsdqgmqbcpmupgpexsypumyrgmgrmnrro,mkqpmlbk
 ryasupygmgqbgmqpmlbkmragpymnskgpysydw

Qpemrlymabgqpe'kmfpeap gmpjpxfgsrymaerxmbytmgqr.dqgmramgqpmosyu,mgqp
pygsepmupas spy tmsymqsxmrambnnmk. qmkregmramfpypgebgsrymremk.kfs sry,
lbkmbmxrkgm rxaregbvnpm se .xkgby pwmQbffsntmqpmlbkmyrgmabegqpemaerx
bffercsydmxbgesxrytmgqbymaerxmarepkppsydmsgw--Gqr.dqmbnlbtkmrvzp gsyd
grmpcpetmxbeesbdpmgqbgmlbkmbeebydpu,mqpmypcpemk.aapepumvparepqbyumaerx
gqpmbffepqpyksrymrambyt;msgmkppxpumbkmsamqpm r.numyrgmgqsyomkrmsnnmra
bytmglrmfpekryk'm.yupekgbyusydmbkmgrmk.ffrkpmgqptmxpbygmgrmxbeetmgsnnmsg
lpepmfercpumbdbsykgmgqpxwmKqpmvnpkkpumgqpmabcr.esydmvnsyuypkkwmQpm r.nu
yrl,mlsgqr.gmgqpmueblvb omrambmksydnpm.yfnpbkbygmk.exskp,mlsgqr.gmb
dnby pmarelbeumbgmbytmfrkksvnpmgepb qpetmsymqskmd.pkg,mdscpmlbtmgrmbnn
qskmybg.ebnmosyu-qpbegpum scsnsgtmsymkrns sgr.kmsyh.sespkmbagpemXew
Aebyom q.e qsnn'kmb  rxxrubgsrymrymqskmzr.eypt,mgqer.dqmgqpmkbumpcsnk
ramknppfsydmglrmysdqgkmrymgqpmerbu,mbyumpjfepkkmcpetmdpy.sypm.yxsjpu
byjspgtmgrmoyrlmgqbgmqpmqbum pegbsyntmpk bfpum bg qsydm rnu--lqs q,
qrlpcpe,mqpm r.numyrgmbnnrlmqsxmgrmappnmh.sgpmbkk.epumramqsxkpnamgsnn
bagpembyrgqpemysdqgw

Bmepbkrybvnpmcsksgmfbsu,mXewmLpkgrymvpdbymgrmxrcpw--“Qpmx.kgmvpmdrsydw
Qpmqbumv.ksypkkmbgmgqpm erlymbvr.gmqskmqbt,mbyumbmdepbgmxbytmpeebyukmare
XekwmLpkgrymbgmAreu'k,mv.gmqpmyppumyrgmq.eetmbytmvrutmpnkpw”mQskmkry,
grrmlpnnmvepumgrmqpbemgqpmqsyg,merkpmsxxpusbgpntmbnkr,mkbtsyd,

“Bkmtr.mbepmdrsydmabegqpemrymv.ksypkk,mkse,mSmlsnnmgbopmgqpmrffreg.ysgt
ramfbtsydmbmcsksg,mlqs qmx.kgmvpmfbsumkrxpmubtmremrgqpe,mbyumgqpeparep
xbtmbkmlpnnmvpmfbsumyrlwmSmqbcpmgqpmqryr.emramvpsydmb h.bsygpumlsgq
bmypsdqvr.emramtr.ek,m(g.eysydmgrmPxxb,)mbmnbutmepksusydmsymremypbe
Qsdqv.et;mbmabxsntmramgqpmybxpmramAbseabjwmSmkqbnnmqbcpmyrmusaas .ngt,
Smk.ffrkp,msymasyusydmgqpmqr.kp;mgqr.dqmAbseabj,mSmvpnspcp,mskmyrg
gqpmferfpemybxp--Smkqr.numebgqpemkbtmVbeypk,mremVbgpkwmUrmtr.moyrlmbyt
abxsntmramgqbgmybxp?”

“Grmvpmk.epmlpmur,”m espumqskmabgqpe;m“XekwmVbgpk--lpmfbkkpumqpe
qr.kp--SmkblmXskkmVbgpkmbgmgqpmlsyurlwmGe.p,mge.p,mtr.mbepmb h.bsygpu
lsgqmXskkmAbseabj;mSmepxpxvpemtr.moyplmqpembgmLptxr.gq,mbyumbmasypmdsen
kqpmskwm bnnm.frymqpe,mvtmbnnmxpbykw”

“Gqpepmskmyrmyp pkksgtmaremxtm bnnsydmgqskmxreysyd,”mkbsumgqpmtr.ydmxby;
“byrgqpemubtmlr.numurmbkmlpnn;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmgqbgmupdeppmramb h.bsygby p
bgmLptxr.gqmlqs q--”

“Rq!mdrmgr-ubt,mdrmgr-ubtwmUrmyrgmupapemsgwmLqbgmskmesdqgmgrmvpmuryp
 byyrgmvpmurypmgrrmkrrywmByu,mvpksupk,mSmx.kgmdscpmtr.mbmqsyg,mAebyo;
bytmlbygmrambggpygsrymgrmqpem_qpep_mkqr.numvpm bepa.nntmbcrsupuwmTr.mkbl
qpemlsgqmgqpm bxfvpnnk,mlqpymkqpmlbkmgqpmph.bnmrampcpetmvrutmkqpmxsjpu
lsgq,mv.gmqpepmkqpmskmlsgqmbmfrremrnumdebyuxrgqpe,mlqrmqbkmvbepntmpyr.dq
grmnscpmrywmSamtr.murmyrgm bnnmpbentmsgmlsnnmvpmbmknsdqgw”

Gqpmkrymnrropum rycsy puw

“Smqbcpmqpbeumqpemkfpbomramgqpmb h.bsygby p,”mkbsumPxxb;m“kqpmskmbmcpet
pnpdbygmtr.ydmlrxbyw”

Qpmbdeppumgrmsg,mv.gmlsgqmkrmh.spgmbm“Tpk,”mbkmsy nsypumqpembnxrkgmgr
ur.vgmqskmepbnm ry .eepy p;mbyumtpgmgqpepmx.kgmvpmbmcpetmuskgsy gmkreg
rampnpdby pmaremgqpmabkqsrybvnpmlrenu,msamZbypmAbseabjm r.numvpmgqr.dqg
ryntmreusybesntmdsagpumlsgqmsgw

“Samtr.mlpepmypcpemfbegs .nbentmkge. omvtmqpemxbyypekmvparep,”mkbsumkqp,
“Smgqsyomtr.mlsnnmgr-ubtwmTr.mlsnnmkppmqpemgrmbucbygbdp;mkppmqpembyu
qpbemqpe--yr,mSmbxmbaebsumtr.mlsnnmyrgmqpbemqpembgmbnn,maremkqpmqbkmby
b.ygmlqrmypcpemqrnukmqpemgryd.pw”

“Tr.mbepmb h.bsygpumlsgqmXskkmZbypmAbseabj,mkse,mbepmtr.?”mkbsumXew
Lrruqr.kp,mbnlbtkmgqpmnbkgmgrmxbopmqskmlbtmsym rycpekbgsry;m“gqpymdscp
xpmnpbcpmgrmbkk.epmtr.mgqbgmtr.mlsnnmasyumqpembmcpetmbdeppbvnpmtr.yd
nbutwmKqpmskmkgbtsydmqpepmrymbmcsksgmgrmqpemdebyuxbxbmbyumb.yg,mcpet
lregqtmfprfnp;mSmqbcpmoyrlymgqpxmbnnmxtmnsapwmGqptmlsnnmvpmpjgepxpnt
dnbumgrmkppmtr.,mSmbxmk.ep;mbyumrypmramxtmkpecbygkmkqbnnmdrmlsgqmtr.mgr
kqplmtr.mgqpmlbtw”

“Xtmupbemkse,m.frymyrmb  r.ygmsymgqpmlrenu;mxtmabgqpem bymusep gmxpw”

“V.gmtr.emabgqpemskmyrgmdrsydmkrmabe;mqpmskmryntmdrsydmgrmgqpm erly,
h.sgpmrymgqpmrgqpemksupmramgqpmkgeppg,mbyumgqpepmbepmbmdepbgmxbyt
qr.kpk;mtr.mxsdqgmvpmcpetmx. qmbgmbmnrkk,mbyumsgmskmbmcpetmusegtmlbno,
.ynpkkmtr.moppfmrymgqpmarrgfbgq;mv.gmxtm rb qxbym bymgpnnmtr.mlqpepmtr.
qbumvpkgm erkkmgqpmkgeppgw”

XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmkgsnnmup nsypumsg,mnrrosydmbkmkpesr.kmbkmqpm r.nu,
byumqskmabgqpemdbcpmqskmqpbegtmk.ffregmvtm bnnsydmr.g,m“Xtmdrrumaespyu,
gqskmskmh.sgpm.yyp pkkbet;mAebyomoyrlkmbmf.uunpmramlbgpemlqpymqpmkppk
sg,mbyumbkmgrmXekwmVbgpk'k,mqpmxbtmdpgmgqpepmaerxmgqpm erlymsymbmqrf,
kgpf,mbyumz.xfw”

Gqptmlpepmfpexsggpumgrmdrmbnryp;mbyumlsgqmbm reusbnmyrumaerxmryp,mbyumb
deb pa.nmvrlmaerxmgqpmrgqpe,mgqpmglrmdpygnpxpymgrromnpbcpwmPxxbmepxbsypu
cpetmlpnnmfnpbkpumlsgqmgqskmvpdsyysydmramgqpmb h.bsygby p,mbyum r.numyrl
pydbdpmgrmgqsyomramgqpxmbnnmbgmEbyubnnkmbytmqr.emramgqpmubt,mlsgqma.nn
 ryasupy pmsymgqpsem rxaregw



 QBFGPEmCS


Gqpmypjgmxreysydmver.dqgmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbdbsywmQpm bxpmlsgqmXekw
Lpkgry,mgrmlqrxmbyumgrmQsdqv.etmqpmkppxpumgrmgbopmcpetm reusbnntwmQpmqbu
vppymksggsydmlsgqmqpe,msgmbffpbepu,mxrkgm rxfbysrybvntmbgmqrxp,mgsnn
qpem.k.bnmqr.emrampjpe skp;mbyumrymvpsydmupksepumgrm q.kpmgqpsemlbno,
sxxpusbgpntmasjpumrymQsdqv.etw--“Qpmusumyrgmur.vgmgqpepmvpsydmcpet
fnpbkbygmlbnokmsympcpetmusep gsry,mv.gmsamnpagmgrmqsx,mqpmkqr.numbnlbtk
 q.kpmgqpmkbxpwmQsdqv.et,mgqbgmbset,m qppea.n,mqbfft-nrrosydmQsdqv.et,
lr.numvpmqskm rykgbygmbggeb gsryw”--Qsdqv.et,mlsgqmXekwmLpkgry,mkgrru
aremQbegaspnu;mbyumkqpmge.kgpumgrmsgkmvpbesydmgqpmkbxpm rykge. gsrymlsgq
qsxwmGqptmlbnopumgqsgqpemusep gntw

Pxxbmqbumqbeuntmpjfp gpumgqpx:maremXewmLpkgry,mlqrmqbum bnnpumsymare
qbnambmxsy.gp,msymreupemgrmqpbemgqbgmqskmkrymlbkmcpetmqbyukrxp,moypl
yrgqsydmramgqpsemfnbyk;mbyumsgmlbkmbymbdeppbvnpmk.efesipmgrmqpe,
gqpeparep,mgrmfpe pscpmgqpxmlbnosydm.fmgrmgqpmqr.kpmgrdpgqpe,mbexmsy
bexwmKqpmlbkmlbygsydmgrmkppmqsxmbdbsy,mbyumpkfp sbnntmgrmkppmqsxmsy
 rxfbytmlsgqmXekwmLpkgry,m.frymqskmvpqbcsr.emgrmlqrxmqpemrfsysrymramqsx
lbkmgrmupfpyuwmSamqpmlpepmupas spygmgqpep,myrgqsydmkqr.numxbopmbxpyuk
aremsgwmV.gmrymkppsydmgqpxmgrdpgqpe,mkqpmvp bxpmfpeap gntmkbgskaspuwmSg
lbkmyrgmxpepntmsymasypmlreukmremqtfpevrns bnm rxfnsxpygmgqbgmqpmfbsumqsk
u.gt;myrgqsydm r.numvpmxrepmferfpemremfnpbksydmgqbymqskmlqrnpmxbyypemgr
qpe--yrgqsydm r.numxrepmbdeppbvntmupyrgpmqskmlskqmram ryksupesydmqpembk
bmaespyumbyumkp .esydmqpembaap gsrywmByumgqpepmlbkmgsxpmpyr.dqmaremPxxb
grmarexmbmepbkrybvnpmz.udxpyg,mbkmgqpsemcsksgmsy n.upumbnnmgqpmepkgmra
gqpmxreysydwmGqptmlpepmbnnmgqeppmlbnosydmbvr.gmgrdpgqpemarembymqr.e
remglr--asekgmer.yumgqpmkqe.vvpespkmramQbegaspnu,mbyumbagpelbeuk
symQsdqv.etwmQpmlbkmupnsdqgpumlsgqmpcpetmgqsyd;mbuxsepumQbegaspnu
k.aas spygntmaremXewmLrruqr.kp'kmpbe;mbyumlqpymgqpsemdrsydmabegqpemlbk
epkrncpumry,m ryapkkpumqskmlskqmgrmvpmxbupmb h.bsygpumlsgqmgqpmlqrnp
csnnbdp,mbyumar.yumxbggpemram rxxpyubgsrymbyumsygpepkgmx. qmragpypemgqby
Pxxbm r.numqbcpmk.ffrkpuw

Krxpmramgqpmrvzp gkmramqskm .esrksgtmkfropmcpetmbxsbvnpmappnsydkwmQp
vpddpumgrmvpmkqplymgqpmqr.kpmlqs qmqskmabgqpemqbumnscpumsymkrmnryd,mbyu
lqs qmqbumvppymgqpmqrxpmramqskmabgqpe'kmabgqpe;mbyumrymep rnnp gsydmgqbg
bymrnumlrxbymlqrmqbumy.ekpumqsxmlbkmkgsnnmnscsyd,mlbnopumsymh.pkgmra
qpem rggbdpmaerxmrypmpyumramgqpmkgeppgmgrmgqpmrgqpe;mbyumgqr.dqmsy
krxpmfrsygkmramf.ek.sgmremrvkpecbgsrymgqpepmlbkmyrmfrksgscpmxpesg,mgqpt
kqplpu,mbngrdpgqpe,mbmdrru-lsnnmgrlbeukmQsdqv.etmsymdpypebn,mlqs qmx.kg
vpmcpetmnsopmbmxpesgmgrmgqrkpmqpmlbkmlsgqw

Pxxbmlbg qpumbyumup supu,mgqbgmlsgqmk. qmappnsydkmbkmlpepmyrlmkqply,msg
 r.numyrgmvpmabsentmk.ffrkpumgqbgmqpmqbumvppympcpemcrn.ygbesntmbvkpygsyd
qsxkpna;mgqbgmqpmqbumyrgmvppymb gsydmbmfbeg,mremxbosydmbmfbebupmra
syksy pepmferapkksryk;mbyumgqbgmXewmOysdqgnptm pegbsyntmqbumyrgmurypmqsx
z.kgs pw

Gqpsemasekgmfb.kpmlbkmbgmgqpm erlymSyy,mbymsy ryksupebvnpmqr.kp,mgqr.dq
gqpmfesy sfbnmrypmramgqpmkreg,mlqpepmbm r.fnpmramfbsemramfrkg-qrekpk
lpepmopfg,mxrepmaremgqpm rycpyspy pmramgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumgqbymaerxmbyt
e.ymrymgqpmerbu;mbyumqskm rxfbysrykmqbumyrgmpjfp gpumgrmvpmupgbsypumvt
bytmsygpepkgmpj sgpumgqpep;mv.gmsymfbkksydmsgmgqptmdbcpmgqpmqskgretmra
gqpmnbedpmerrxmcsksvntmbuupu;msgmqbumvppymv.sngmxbytmtpbekmbdrmare
bmvbnn-errx,mbyumlqsnpmgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumqbumvppymsymbmfbegs .nbent
frf.nr.k,muby sydmkgbgp,mqbumvppymr  bksrybnntm.kpumbkmk. q;--v.gmk. q
vesnnsbygmubtkmqbumnrydmfbkkpumblbt,mbyumyrlmgqpmqsdqpkgmf.efrkpmare
lqs qmsgmlbkmpcpemlbygpumlbkmgrmb  rxxrubgpmbmlqskgm n.vmpkgbvnskqpu
bxrydmgqpmdpygnpxpymbyumqbna-dpygnpxpymramgqpmfnb pwmQpmlbkmsxxpusbgpnt
sygpepkgpuwmSgkm qbeb gpembkmbmvbnn-errxm b.dqgmqsx;mbyumsykgpbumra
fbkksydmry,mqpmkgrfgmaremkpcpebnmxsy.gpkmbgmgqpmglrmk.fpesremkbkqpu
lsyurlkmlqs qmlpepmrfpy,mgrmnrromsymbyum rygpxfnbgpmsgkm bfbvsnsgspk,
byumnbxpygmgqbgmsgkmresdsybnmf.efrkpmkqr.numqbcpm pbkpuwmQpmkblmyrmab.ng
symgqpmerrx,mqpmlr.numb oyrlnpudpmyrypmlqs qmgqptmk.ddpkgpuwmYr,msg
lbkmnrydmpyr.dq,mverbumpyr.dq,mqbyukrxpmpyr.dqwmSgmlr.numqrnumgqp
cpetmy.xvpemarem rxaregwmGqptmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmvbnnkmgqpepmbgmnpbkgmpcpet
aregysdqgmgqer.dqmgqpmlsygpewmLqtmqbumyrgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmepcscpu
gqpmarexpemdrrumrnumubtkmramgqpmerrx?--Kqpmlqrm r.numurmbytmgqsydmsy
Qsdqv.et!mGqpmlbygmramferfpemabxsnspkmsymgqpmfnb p,mbyumgqpm rycs gsry
gqbgmyrypmvptryumgqpmfnb pmbyumsgkmsxxpusbgpmpycserykm r.numvpmgpxfgpu
grmbggpyu,mlpepmxpygsrypu;mv.gmqpmlbkmyrgmkbgskaspuwmQpm r.numyrgmvp
fpek.bupumgqbgmkrmxbytmdrru-nrrosydmqr.kpkmbkmqpmkblmber.yumqsx,m r.nu
yrgma.eyskqmy.xvpekmpyr.dqmaremk. qmbmxppgsyd;mbyumpcpymlqpymfbegs .nbek
lpepmdscpymbyumabxsnspkmupk esvpu,mqpmlbkmkgsnnm.ylsnnsydmgrmbuxsgmgqbg
gqpmsy rycpyspy pmramk. qmbmxsjg.epmlr.numvpmbytmgqsyd,mremgqbgmgqpep
lr.numvpmgqpmkxbnnpkgmusaas .ngtmsympcpetmvrut'kmepg.eysydmsygrmgqpse
ferfpemfnb pmgqpmypjgmxreysydwmQpmbed.pumnsopmbmtr.ydmxbymcpetmx. qmvpyg
rymuby syd;mbyumPxxbmlbkmebgqpemk.efesipumgrmkppmgqpm rykgsg.gsrymra
gqpmLpkgrymfepcbsnmkrmup supuntmbdbsykgmgqpmqbvsgkmramgqpm q.e qsnnkw
Qpmkppxpumgrmqbcpmbnnmgqpmnsapmbyumkfsesg,m qppea.nmappnsydk,mbyumkr sbn
sy nsybgsrykmramqskmabgqpe,mbyumyrgqsydmramgqpmfesupmremepkpecpmra
Pyk rxvpwmRamfesup,msyuppu,mgqpepmlbk,mfpeqbfk,mk be pntmpyr.dq;mqsk
syusaapepy pmgrmbm rya.ksrymramebyo,mvreupepumgrrmx. qmrymsypnpdby pmra
xsyuwmQpm r.numvpmyrmz.udp,mqrlpcpe,mramgqpmpcsnmqpmlbkmqrnusydm qpbfw
Sgmlbkmv.gmbympaa.ksrymramnscpntmkfsesgkw

Bgmnbkgmqpmlbkmfpek.bupumgrmxrcpmrymaerxmgqpmaerygmramgqpm erly;
byumvpsydmyrlmbnxrkgmab sydmgqpmqr.kpmlqpepmgqpmVbgpkpkmnrudpu,mPxxb
ep rnnp gpumqskmsygpyupumcsksgmgqpmubtmvparep,mbyumbkopumqsxmsamqpmqbu
fbsumsgw

“Tpk,mrq!mtpk”--qpmepfnspu;m“Smlbkmz.kgmdrsydmgrmxpygsrymsgwmBmcpet
k.  pkka.nmcsksg:--Smkblmbnnmgqpmgqeppmnbuspk;mbyumapngmcpetmx. q
rvnsdpumgrmtr.maremtr.emfepfbebgretmqsygwmSamgqpmgbnosydmb.ygmqbumgbopy
xpmh.sgpmvtmk.efesip,msgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymgqpmupbgqmramxpwmBkmsgmlbk,mS
lbkmryntmvpgebtpumsygrmfbtsydmbmxrkgm.yepbkrybvnpmcsksgwmGpymxsy.gpk
lr.numqbcpmvppymbnnmgqbgmlbkmyp pkkbet,mfpeqbfkmbnnmgqbgmlbkmferfpe;mbyu
SmqbumgrnumxtmabgqpemSmkqr.num pegbsyntmvpmbgmqrxpmvparepmqsx--v.gmgqpep
lbkmyrmdpggsydmblbt,myrmfb.kp;mbyu,mgrmxtm.ggpembkgryskqxpyg,mSmar.yu,
lqpymqpm(asyusydmxpmyrlqpepmpnkp)mzrsypumxpmgqpepmbgmnbkg,mgqbgmSmqbu
vppymb g.bnntmksggsydmlsgqmgqpxmcpetmypbentmgqepp-h.begpekmrambymqr.ew
Gqpmdrrumnbutmqbumyrgmdscpymxpmgqpmfrkksvsnsgtmrampk bfpmvparepw”

“Byumqrlmusumtr.mgqsyomXskkmAbseabjmnrrosyd?”

“Snn,mcpetmsnn--gqbgmsk,msambmtr.ydmnbutm bympcpemvpmbnnrlpumgrmnrro
snnwmV.gmgqpmpjfepkksrymskmqbeuntmbuxskksvnp,mXekwmLpkgry,mskmsg?mNbuspk
 bymypcpemnrromsnnwmByu,mkpesr.knt,mXskkmAbseabjmskmybg.ebnntmkr
fbnp,mbkmbnxrkgmbnlbtkmgrmdscpmgqpmbffpbeby pmramsnnmqpbngqw--Bmxrkg
upfnrebvnpmlbygmram rxfnpjsryw”

Pxxbmlr.numyrgmbdeppmgrmgqsk,mbyumvpdbymbmlbexmupapy pmramXskkmAbseabj'k
 rxfnpjsrywm“Sgmlbkm pegbsyntmypcpemvesnnsbyg,mv.gmkqpmlr.numyrg
bnnrlmsgmgrmqbcpmbmks ontmq.pmsymdpypebn;mbyumgqpepmlbkmbmkragypkkmbyu
upns b tmsymqpemkosymlqs qmdbcpmfp .nsbempnpdby pmgrmgqpm qbeb gpemra
qpemab pw”mQpmnskgpypumlsgqmbnnmu.pmupapepy p;mb oyrlnpudpumgqbgmqpmqbu
qpbeumxbytmfprfnpmkbtmgqpmkbxp--v.gmtpgmqpmx.kgm ryapkk,mgqbgmgrmqsx
yrgqsydm r.numxbopmbxpyukmaremgqpmlbygmramgqpmasypmdnrlmramqpbngqwmLqpep
apbg.epkmlpepmsyusaapepyg,mbmasypm rxfnpjsrymdbcpmvpb.gtmgrmgqpxmbnn;
byumlqpepmgqptmlpepmdrru,mgqpmpaap gmlbk--areg.ybgpntmqpmyppumyrg
bggpxfgmgrmupk esvpmlqbgmgqpmpaap gmlbkw

“Lpnn,”mkbsumPxxb,m“gqpepmskmyrmuskf.gsydmbvr.gmgbkgpw--Bgmnpbkgmtr.
buxsepmqpempj pfgmqpem rxfnpjsryw”

Qpmkqrromqskmqpbumbyumnb.dqpuw--“Sm byyrgmkpfbebgpmXskkmAbseabjmbyumqpe
 rxfnpjsryw”

“Usumtr.mkppmqpemragpymbgmLptxr.gq?mLpepmtr.mragpymsymgqpmkbxpmkr spgt?”

Bgmgqskmxrxpygmgqptmlpepmbfferb qsydmAreu'k,mbyumqpmqbkgsntmpj nbsxpu,
“Qb!mgqskmx.kgmvpmgqpmcpetmkqrfmgqbgmpcpetmvrutmbggpyukmpcpetmubtmra
gqpsemnscpk,mbkmxtmabgqpemsyarexkmxpwmQpm rxpkmgrmQsdqv.etmqsxkpna,mqp
kbtk,mksjmubtkmr.gmramgqpmkpcpy,mbyumqbkmbnlbtkmv.ksypkkmbgmAreu'kw
Samsgmvpmyrgmsy rycpyspygmgrmtr.,mfebtmnpgm.kmdrmsy,mgqbgmSmxbtmfercp
xtkpnamgrmvpnrydmgrmgqpmfnb p,mgrmvpmbmge.pm sgsipymramQsdqv.etwmSmx.kg
v.tmkrxpgqsydmbgmAreu'kwmSgmlsnnmvpmgbosydmr.gmxtmaeppurxw--Smubepmkbt
gqptmkpnnmdnrcpkw”

“Rq!mtpk,mdnrcpkmbyumpcpetmgqsydwmSmurmbuxsepmtr.emfbgesrgskxwmTr.mlsnn
vpmburepumsymQsdqv.etwmTr.mlpepmcpetmfrf.nbemvparepmtr.m bxp,mvp b.kp
tr.mlpepmXewmLpkgry'kmkry--v.gmnbtmr.gmqbnambmd.sypbmbgmAreu'k,mbyumtr.e
frf.nbesgtmlsnnmkgbyum.frymtr.emrlymcseg.pkw”

Gqptmlpygmsy;mbyumlqsnpmgqpmknppo,mlpnn-gspumfbe pnkmram“Xpy'kmVpbcpek”
mbyum“TreomGby”mlpepmvesydsydmurlymbyumuskfnbtsydmrymgqpm r.ygpe,mqp
kbsu--“V.gmSmvpdmtr.emfbeury,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mlpepmkfpbosydmgrmxp,
tr.mlpepmkbtsydmkrxpgqsydmbgmgqpmcpetmxrxpygmramgqskmv.ekgmramxtm_bxre_
_fbgesbp_wmUrmyrgmnpgmxpmnrkpmsgwmSmbkk.epmtr.mgqpm.gxrkgmkgepg qmra
f.vns mabxpmlr.numyrgmxbopmxpmbxpyukmaremgqpmnrkkmrambytmqbffsypkkmsy
fescbgpmnsapw”

“Smxpepntmbkopu,mlqpgqpemtr.mqbumoyrlymx. qmramXskkmAbseabjmbyumqpe
fbegtmbgmLptxr.gqw”

“ByumyrlmgqbgmSm.yupekgbyumtr.emh.pkgsry,mSmx.kgmferyr.y pmsgmgrmvpmb
cpetm.yabsemrypwmSgmskmbnlbtkmgqpmnbut'kmesdqgmgrmup supmrymgqpmupdepp
ramb h.bsygby pwmXskkmAbseabjmx.kgmbnepbutmqbcpmdscpymqpemb  r.ygw--S
kqbnnmyrgm rxxsgmxtkpnamvtm nbsxsydmxrepmgqbymkqpmxbtm q.kpmgrmbnnrlw”

“.frymxtmlreu!mtr.mbyklpembkmusk eppgntmbkmkqpm r.numurmqpekpnawmV.g
qpemb  r.ygmrampcpetmgqsydmnpbcpkmkrmx. qmgrmvpmd.pkkpu,mkqpmskmkrmcpet
epkpecpu,mkrmcpetm.ylsnnsydmgrmdscpmgqpmnpbkgmsyarexbgsrymbvr.gmbyt
vrut,mgqbgmSmepbnntmgqsyomtr.mxbtmkbtmlqbgmtr.mnsopmramtr.emb h.bsygby p
lsgqmqpew”

“XbtmS,msyuppu?--GqpymSmlsnnmkfpbomgqpmge.gq,mbyumyrgqsydmk.sgkmxpmkr
lpnnwmSmxpgmqpemaeph.pygntmbgmLptxr.gqwmSmqbumoyrlymgqpm bxfvpnnkmb
nsggnpmsymgrly;mbyumbgmLptxr.gqmlpmlpepmcpetmx. qmsymgqpmkbxpmkpgw
 rnrypnm bxfvpnnmskmbmcpetmbdeppbvnpmxby,mbyumXekwm bxfvpnnmbmaespyunt,
lbex-qpbegpumlrxbywmSmnsopmgqpxmbnnw”

“Tr.moyrlmXskkmAbseabj'kmksg.bgsrymsymnsap,mSm ry n.up;mlqbgmkqpmsk
upkgsypumgrmvp?”

“Tpk--(ebgqpemqpksgbgsydnt)--SmvpnspcpmSmurw”

“Tr.mdpgm.frymupns bgpmk.vzp gk,mPxxb,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrymkxsnsyd;
“epxpxvpemgqbgmSmbxmqpepw--XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbeuntmoyrlkmlqbgmgrmkbt
lqpymtr.mkfpbomramXskkmAbseabj'kmksg.bgsrymsymnsapwmSmlsnnmxrcpmbmnsggnp
abegqpemraaw”

“Sm pegbsyntmurmaredpgmgrmgqsyomram_qpe_,”mkbsumPxxb,m“bkmqbcsydmpcpe
vppymbytmgqsydmv.gmxtmaespyumbyumxtmupbepkgmaespyuw”

Qpmnrropumbkmsamqpma.nntm.yupekgrrumbyumqryr.epumk. qmbmkpygsxpygw

Lqpymgqpmdnrcpkmlpepmvr.dqg,mbyumgqptmqbumh.sggpumgqpmkqrfmbdbsy,m“Usu
tr.mpcpemqpbemgqpmtr.ydmnbutmlpmlpepmkfpbosydmra,mfnbt?”mkbsumAebyo
 q.e qsnnw

“Pcpemqpbemqpe!”mepfpbgpumPxxbwm“Tr.maredpgmqrlmx. qmkqpmvpnrydkmgr
Qsdqv.etwmSmqbcpmqpbeumqpempcpetmtpbemramr.emnscpkmksy pmlpmvrgqmvpdbyw
Kqpmfnbtkm qbexsydntw”

“Tr.mgqsyomkr,murmtr.?--Smlbygpumgqpmrfsysrymramkrxpmrypmlqr
 r.numepbnntmz.udpwmKqpmbffpbepumgrmxpmgrmfnbtmlpnn,mgqbgmsk,mlsgq
 ryksupebvnpmgbkgp,mv.gmSmoyrlmyrgqsydmramgqpmxbggpemxtkpnaw--Smbx
pj pkkscpntmaryumramx.ks ,mv.gmlsgqr.gmgqpmkxbnnpkgmkosnnmremesdqg
ramz.udsydmrambytmvrut'kmfpearexby pw--Smqbcpmvppym.kpumgrmqpbemqpe'k
buxsepu;mbyumSmepxpxvpemrypmferramramqpemvpsydmgqr.dqgmgrmfnbtmlpnn:--b
xby,mbmcpetmx.ks bnmxby,mbyumsymnrcpmlsgqmbyrgqpemlrxby--pydbdpumgr
qpe--rymgqpmfrsygmramxbeesbdp--lr.numtpgmypcpembkomgqbgmrgqpemlrxby
grmksgmurlymgrmgqpmsykge.xpyg,msamgqpmnbutmsymh.pkgsrym r.numksgmurly
sykgpbu--ypcpemkppxpumgrmnsopmgrmqpbemrypmsamqpm r.numqpbemgqpmrgqpew
Gqbg,mSmgqr.dqg,msymbmxbymramoyrlymx.ks bnmgbnpyg,mlbkmkrxpmferraw”

“Ferramsyuppu!”mkbsumPxxb,mqsdqntmbx.kpuw--“XewmUsjrymskmcpetmx.ks bn,
skmqp?mLpmkqbnnmoyrlmxrepmbvr.gmgqpxmbnn,msymqbnambymqr.e,maerxmtr.,
gqbymXskkmAbseabjmlr.numqbcpmcr. qkbapumsymqbnambmtpbew”

“Tpk,mXewmUsjrymbyumXskkm bxfvpnnmlpepmgqpmfpekryk;mbyumSmgqr.dqgmsgmb
cpetmkgerydmferraw”

“ pegbsynt--cpetmkgerydmsgmlbk;mgrmrlymgqpmge.gq,mbmdepbgmupbnmkgerydpe
gqby,msam_S_mqbumvppymXskkm bxfvpnn,mlr.numqbcpmvppymbgmbnnmbdeppbvnp
grmxpwmSm r.numyrgmpj .kpmbmxby'kmqbcsydmxrepmx.ks mgqbymnrcp--xrepmpbe
gqbymptp--bmxrepmb .gpmkpyksvsnsgtmgrmasypmkr.yukmgqbymgrmxtmappnsydkw
QrlmusumXskkm bxfvpnnmbffpbemgrmnsopmsg?”

“Sgmlbkmqpemcpetmfbegs .nbemaespyu,mtr.moyrlw”

“Frrem rxareg!”mkbsumPxxb,mnb.dqsydwm“Rypmlr.numebgqpemqbcpmbmkgebydpe
fepapeepumgqbymryp'kmcpetmfbegs .nbemaespyu--lsgqmbmkgebydpemsgmxsdqg
yrgmep .embdbsy--v.gmgqpmxskpetmramqbcsydmbmcpetmfbegs .nbemaespyu
bnlbtkmbgmqbyu,mgrmurmpcpetmgqsydmvpggpemgqbymrypmurpkmrypkpna!--Frre
XekwmUsjry!mLpnn,mSmbxmdnbumkqpmskmdrypmgrmkpggnpmsymSepnbyuw”

“Tr.mbepmesdqgwmSgmlbkmyrgmcpetmanbggpesydmgrmXskkm bxfvpnn;mv.gmkqp
epbnntmusumyrgmkppxmgrmappnmsgw”

“Krmx. qmgqpmvpggpe--remkrmx. qmgqpmlrekp:--Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqs qwmV.g
vpmsgmklppgypkkmremvpmsgmkg.fsusgtmsymqpe--h.s oypkkmramaespyukqsf,mre
u.nypkkmramappnsyd--gqpepmlbkmrypmfpekry,mSmgqsyo,mlqrmx.kgmqbcpmapng
sg:mXskkmAbseabjmqpekpnawmKqpmx.kgmqbcpmapngmgqpmsxferfpembyumubydper.k
uskgsy gsryw”

“Bkmgrmgqbg--Smurmyrg--”

“Rq!murmyrgmsxbdsypmgqbgmSmpjfp gmbymb  r.ygmramXskkmAbseabj'k
kpykbgsrykmaerxmtr.,mremaerxmbytmvrutmpnkpwmGqptmbepmoyrlymgrmyrmq.xby
vpsyd,mSmd.pkk,mv.gmqpekpnawmV.gmsamkqpm rygsy.pumgrmfnbtmlqpypcpemkqp
lbkmbkopumvtmXewmUsjry,mrypmxbtmd.pkkmlqbgmrypm q.kpkw”

“Gqpepmbffpbepumk. qmbmfpeap gntmdrrum.yupekgbyusydmbxrydmgqpxmbnn--”
mqpmvpdbymebgqpemh.s ont,mv.gm qp osydmqsxkpna,mbuupu,m“qrlpcpe,msgmsk
sxfrkksvnpmaremxpmgrmkbtmrymlqbgmgpexkmgqptmepbnntmlpep--qrlmsgmxsdqg
bnnmvpmvpqsyumgqpmk pypkwmSm bymryntmkbtmgqbgmgqpepmlbkmkxrrgqypkk
r.glbeuntwmV.gmtr.,mlqrmqbcpmoyrlymXskkmAbseabjmaerxmbm qsnu,mx.kgmvp
bmvpggpemz.udpmramqpem qbeb gpe,mbyumramqrlmkqpmskmnsopntmgrm ryu. g
qpekpnamsym esgs bnmksg.bgsryk,mgqbymSm bymvpw”

“Smqbcpmoyrlymqpemaerxmbm qsnu,m.yur.vgpunt;mlpmqbcpmvppym qsnuepy
byumlrxpymgrdpgqpe;mbyumsgmskmybg.ebnmgrmk.ffrkpmgqbgmlpmkqr.numvp
sygsxbgp,--gqbgmlpmkqr.numqbcpmgbopymgrmpb qmrgqpemlqpypcpemkqpmcsksgpu
qpemaespyukwmV.gmlpmypcpemusuwmSmqbeuntmoyrlmqrlmsgmqbkmqbffpypu;mb
nsggnp,mfpeqbfk,maerxmgqbgmls opuypkkmrymxtmksupmlqs qmlbkmferypmgrmgbop
uskd.kgmgrlbeukmbmdsenmkrmsurnsipumbyumkrm espum.fmbkmkqpmbnlbtkmlbk,
vtmqpemb.ygmbyumdebyuxrgqpe,mbyumbnnmgqpsemkpgwmByumgqpy,mqpemepkpecp--S
ypcpem r.numbggb qmxtkpnamgrmbytmrypmkrm rxfnpgpntmepkpecpuw”

“Sgmskmbmxrkgmepf.nkscpmh.bnsgt,msyuppu,”mkbsumqpwm“Ragpygsxpkmcpet
 rycpyspyg,myrmur.vg,mv.gmypcpemfnpbksydwmGqpepmskmkbapgtmsymepkpecp,
v.gmyrmbggeb gsrywmRypm byyrgmnrcpmbmepkpecpumfpekryw”

“Yrgmgsnnmgqpmepkpecpm pbkpkmgrlbeukmrypkpna;mbyumgqpymgqpmbggeb gsry
xbtmvpmgqpmdepbgpewmV.gmSmx.kgmvpmxrepmsymlbygmrambmaespyu,mremby
bdeppbvnpm rxfbysry,mgqbymSmqbcpmtpgmvppy,mgrmgbopmgqpmger.vnpmra
 ryh.pesydmbytmvrut'kmepkpecpmgrmfer .epmrypwmSygsxb tmvpglppymXskk
Abseabjmbyumxpmskmh.sgpmr.gmramgqpmh.pkgsrywmSmqbcpmyrmepbkrymgrmgqsyo
snnmramqpe--yrgmgqpmnpbkg--pj pfgmgqbgmk. qmpjgepxpmbyumfpefpg.bn
 b.gsr.kypkkmramlreumbyumxbyype,mk. qmbmuepbumramdscsydmbmuskgsy gmsupb
bvr.gmbytmvrut,mskmbfgmgrmk.ddpkgmk.kfs srykmramgqpepmvpsydmkrxpgqsydmgr
 ry pbnw”

Qpmfpeap gntmbdeppumlsgqmqpe:mbyumbagpemlbnosydmgrdpgqpemkrmnryd,mbyu
gqsyosydmkrmx. qmbnsop,mPxxbmapngmqpekpnamkrmlpnnmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqsx,
gqbgmkqpm r.numqbeuntmvpnspcpmsgmgrmvpmryntmgqpsemkp ryumxppgsydwmQpmlbk
yrgmpjb gntmlqbgmkqpmqbumpjfp gpu;mnpkkmramgqpmxbymramgqpmlrenumsymkrxp
ramqskmyrgsryk,mnpkkmramgqpmkfrsnpum qsnumramareg.yp,mgqpeparepmvpggpe
gqbymkqpmqbumpjfp gpuwmQskmsupbkmkppxpumxrepmxrupebgp--qskmappnsydk
lbexpewmKqpmlbkmfbegs .nbentmkge. omvtmqskmxbyypemram ryksupesydmXew
Pngry'kmqr.kp,mlqs q,mbkmlpnnmbkmgqpm q.e q,mqpmlr.numdrmbyumnrrombg,
byumlr.numyrgmzrsymgqpxmsymasyusydmx. qmab.ngmlsgqwmYr,mqpm r.numyrg
vpnspcpmsgmbmvbumqr.kp;myrgmk. qmbmqr.kpmbkmbmxbymlbkmgrmvpmfsgspumare
qbcsydwmSamsgmlpepmgrmvpmkqbepumlsgqmgqpmlrxbymqpmnrcpu,mqpm r.numyrg
gqsyombytmxbymgrmvpmfsgspumaremqbcsydmgqbgmqr.kpwmGqpepmx.kgmvpmbxfnp
errxmsymsgmarempcpetmepbnm rxaregwmGqpmxbymx.kgmvpmbmvnr oqpbumlqr
lbygpumxrepw

XekwmLpkgrymnb.dqpu,mbyumkbsumqpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbgmqpmlbkmgbnosydmbvr.gw
.kpumryntmgrmbmnbedpmqr.kpmqsxkpna,mbyumlsgqr.gmpcpemgqsyosydmqrlmxbyt
bucbygbdpkmbyumb  rxxrubgsrykmlpepmbggb qpumgrmsgkmksip,mqpm r.numvpmyr
z.udpmramgqpmfescbgsrykmsypcsgbvntmvpnrydsydmgrmbmkxbnnmrypwmV.gmPxxb,
symqpemrlymxsyu,mupgpexsypumgqbgmqpm_usu_moyrlmlqbgmqpmlbkmgbnosyd
bvr.g,mbyumgqbgmqpmkqplpumbmcpetmbxsbvnpmsy nsybgsrymgrmkpggnpmpbentmsy
nsap,mbyumgrmxbeet,maerxmlregqtmxrgscpkwmQpmxsdqgmyrgmvpmblbepmramgqp
syerbukmrymurxpkgs mfpb pmgrmvpmr  bksrypumvtmyrmqr.kpoppfpe'kmerrx,mre
bmvbumv.gnpe'kmfbyget,mv.gmyrmur.vgmqpmusumfpeap gntmappnmgqbgmPyk rxvp
 r.numyrgmxbopmqsxmqbfft,mbyumgqbgmlqpypcpemqpmlpepmbggb qpu,mqpmlr.nu
lsnnsydntmdscpm.fmx. qmramlpbngqmgrmvpmbnnrlpumbympbentmpkgbvnskqxpygw



 QBFGPEmCSS


Pxxb'kmcpetmdrrumrfsysrymramAebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmbmnsggnpmkqbopymgqp
arnnrlsydmubt,mvtmqpbesydmgqbgmqpmlbkmdrypmraamgrmNryury,mxpepntmgrmqbcp
qskmqbsem .gwmBmk.uupymaepbomkppxpumgrmqbcpmkpsipumqsxmbgmvepboabkg,mbyu
qpmqbumkpygmarembm qbskpmbyumkpgmraa,msygpyusydmgrmepg.eymgrmusyype,
v.gmlsgqmyrmxrepmsxfregbygmcsplmgqbgmbffpbepumgqbymqbcsydmqskmqbsem .gw
Gqpepmlbkm pegbsyntmyrmqbexmsymqskmgebcpnnsydmksjgppymxsnpkmgls pmrcpe
rymk. qmbympeebyu;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbymbsemramarffpetmbyumyrykpykpmsymsg
lqs qmkqpm r.numyrgmbffercpwmSgmusumyrgmb  reumlsgqmgqpmebgsrybnsgtmra
fnby,mgqpmxrupebgsrymsympjfpykp,mrempcpymgqpm.ykpnaskqmlbexgqmramqpbeg,
lqs qmkqpmqbumvpnspcpumqpekpnamgrmusk peymsymqsxmtpkgpeubtwmCbysgt,
pjgebcbdby p,mnrcpmram qbydp,mepkgnpkkypkkmramgpxfpe,mlqs qmx.kgmvp
ursydmkrxpgqsyd,mdrrumremvbu;mqppunpkkypkkmbkmgrmgqpmfnpbk.epmramqsk
abgqpembyumXekwmLpkgry,msyusaapepygmbkmgrmqrlmqskm ryu. gmxsdqgmbffpbe
symdpypebn;mqpmvp bxpmnsbvnpmgrmbnnmgqpkpm qbedpkwmQskmabgqpemrynt
 bnnpumqsxmbm rj rxv,mbyumgqr.dqgmsgmbmcpetmdrrumkgret;mv.gmgqbgmXekw
Lpkgrymusumyrgmnsopmsg,mlbkm npbempyr.dq,mvtmqpemfbkksydmsgmrcpembk
h.s ontmbkmfrkksvnp,mbyumxbosydmyrmrgqpem rxxpygmgqbymgqbgm“bnnmtr.yd
fprfnpmlr.numqbcpmgqpsemnsggnpmlqsxkw”

Lsgqmgqpmpj pfgsrymramgqskmnsggnpmvnrg,mPxxbmar.yumgqbgmqskmcsksg
qsgqpegrmqbumdscpymqpemaespyumryntmdrrumsupbkmramqsxwmXekwmLpkgry
lbkmcpetmepbutmgrmkbtmqrlmbggpygscpmbyumfnpbkbygmbm rxfbysrymqpmxbup
qsxkpna--qrlmx. qmkqpmkblmgrmnsopmsymqskmuskfrksgsrymbngrdpgqpewmQp
bffpbepumgrmqbcpmbmcpetmrfpymgpxfpe-- pegbsyntmbmcpetm qppea.nmbyu
nscpntmryp;mkqpm r.numrvkpecpmyrgqsydmlerydmsymqskmyrgsryk,mbmdepbgmupbn
up supuntmesdqg;mqpmkfropmramqskm.y npmlsgqmlbexmepdbeu,mlbkmaryumra
gbnosydmramqsx--kbsumqpmlr.numvpmgqpmvpkgmxbymsymgqpmlrenumsamqpmlpep
npagmgrmqsxkpna;mbyumgqr.dqmgqpepmlbkmyrmvpsydmbggb qpumgrmgqpmb.yg,mqp
b oyrlnpudpumqpemosyuypkkmlsgqmdebgsg.up,mbyumkppxpumgrmxpbymbnlbtkmgr
kfpbomramqpemlsgqmepkfp gwmGqskmlbkmbnnmcpetmferxsksyd;mbyu,mv.gmare
k. qmbym.yareg.ybgpmaby tmaremqbcsydmqskmqbsem .g,mgqpepmlbkmyrgqsydmgr
upyrgpmqsxm.ylregqtmramgqpmuskgsyd.skqpumqryr.emlqs qmqpemsxbdsybgsry
qbumdscpymqsx;mgqpmqryr.e,msamyrgmramvpsydmepbnntmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpe,
ramvpsydmbgmnpbkgmcpetmypbemsg,mbyumkbcpumryntmvtmqpemrly
syusaapepy p--(aremkgsnnmqpemepkrn.gsrymqpnumramypcpemxbeetsyd)--gqp
qryr.e,msymkqreg,mramvpsydmxbeopumr.gmaremqpemvtmbnnmgqpsemzrsyg
b h.bsygby pw

XewmLpkgry,mrymqskmksup,mbuupumbmcseg.pmgrmgqpmb  r.ygmlqs qmx.kg
qbcpmkrxpmlpsdqgwmQpmdbcpmqpemgrm.yupekgbyumgqbgmAebyombuxsepumqpe
pjgepxpnt--gqr.dqgmqpemcpetmvpb.gsa.nmbyumcpetm qbexsyd;mbyumlsgqmkr
x. qmgrmvpmkbsumaremqsxmbngrdpgqpe,mkqpmar.yumkqpmx.kgmyrgmz.udpmqsx
qbekqntwmBkmXekwmLpkgrymrvkpecpu,m“bnnmtr.ydmfprfnpmlr.numqbcpmgqpse
nsggnpmlqsxkw”

Gqpepmlbkmrypmfpekrymbxrydmqskmyplmb h.bsygby pmsymK.eet,myrgmkr
npyspygntmuskfrkpuwmSymdpypebnmqpmlbkmz.udpu,mgqer.dqr.gmgqpmfbeskqpkmra
UrylpnnmbyumQsdqv.et,mlsgqmdepbgm byur.e;mnsvpebnmbnnrlby pkmlpepmxbup
aremgqpmnsggnpmpj pkkpkmramk. qmbmqbyukrxpmtr.ydmxby--rypmlqrmkxsnpumkr
ragpymbyumvrlpumkrmlpnn;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmrypmkfsesgmbxrydmgqpxmyrgmgrmvp
kragpypu,maerxmsgkmfrlpemram pyk.ep,mvtmvrlkmremkxsnpk--XewmOysdqgnptw
Gqpm se .xkgby pmlbkmgrnumqsxmbgmQbegaspnu;maremgqpmxrxpyg,mqpmlbk
ksnpyg;mv.gmPxxbmqpbeumqsxmbnxrkgmsxxpusbgpntmbagpelbeukmkbtmgrmqsxkpna,
rcpembmyplkfbfpemqpmqpnumsymqskmqbyu,m“Q.x!mz.kgmgqpmgesansyd,mksnnt
apnnrlmSmgrromqsxmarew”mKqpmqbumqbnambmxsyumgrmepkpyg;mv.gmbymsykgbyg'k
rvkpecbgsrym rycsy pumqpemgqbgmsgmlbkmepbnntmkbsumryntmgrmepnspcpmqsk
rlymappnsydk,mbyumyrgmxpbygmgrmfercrop;mbyumgqpeparepmkqpmnpgmsgmfbkkw

Bngqr.dqmsymrypmsykgby pmgqpmvpbepekmramyrgmdrrumgsusydk,mXewmbyu
XekwmLpkgry'kmcsksgmgqskmxreysydmlbkmsymbyrgqpemepkfp gmfbegs .nbent
rffreg.ypwmKrxpgqsydmr  .eepumlqsnpmgqptmlpepmbgmQbegaspnu,mgrmxbopmPxxb
lbygmgqpsembucs p;mbyu,mlqs qmlbkmkgsnnmxrepmn. ot,mkqpmlbygpumpjb gnt
gqpmbucs pmgqptmdbcpw

Gqskmlbkmgqpmr  .eepy p:--Gqpm rnpkmqbumvppymkpggnpumkrxpmtpbekmsy
Qsdqv.et,mbyumlpepmcpetmdrrumkregmramfprfnp--aespyunt,mnsvpebn,mbyu
.yfepgpyusyd;mv.g,mrymgqpmrgqpemqbyu,mgqptmlpepmramnrlmresdsy,msymgebup,
byumryntmxrupebgpntmdpygppnwmRymgqpsemasekgm rxsydmsygrmgqpm r.yget,
gqptmqbumnscpumsymferfregsrymgrmgqpsemsy rxp,mh.spgnt,moppfsydmnsggnp
 rxfbyt,mbyumgqbgmnsggnpm.ypjfpykscpnt;mv.gmgqpmnbkgmtpbemremglrmqbu
ver.dqgmgqpxmbm ryksupebvnpmsy epbkpmramxpbyk--gqpmqr.kpmsymgrlymqbu
tspnupumdepbgpemferasgk,mbyumareg.ypmsymdpypebnmqbumkxsnpumrymgqpxwmLsgq
gqpsemlpbngq,mgqpsemcsplkmsy epbkpu;mgqpsemlbygmrambmnbedpemqr.kp,mgqpse
sy nsybgsrymaremxrepm rxfbytwmGqptmbuupumgrmgqpsemqr.kp,mgrmgqpsemy.xvpe
ramkpecbygk,mgrmgqpsempjfpykpkmrampcpetmkreg;mbyumvtmgqskmgsxpmlpep,
symareg.ypmbyumkgtnpmramnscsyd,mkp ryumryntmgrmgqpmabxsntmbgmQbegaspnuw
Gqpsemnrcpmramkr spgt,mbyumgqpsemyplmusysyd-errx,mfepfbepumpcpetmvrut
aremgqpsemoppfsydmusyype- rxfbyt;mbyumbmaplmfbegspk,m qspantmbxrydmgqp
ksydnpmxpy,mqbumbnepbutmgbopymfnb pwmGqpmepd.nbembyumvpkgmabxsnspkmPxxb
 r.numqbeuntmk.ffrkpmgqptmlr.numfepk.xpmgrmsycsgp--ypsgqpemUrylpnn,myre
Qbegaspnu,myremEbyubnnkwmYrgqsydmkqr.numgpxfgm_qpe_mgrmdr,msamgqptmusu;
byumkqpmepdepggpumgqbgmqpemabgqpe'kmoyrlymqbvsgkmlr.numvpmdscsyd
qpemepa.kbnmnpkkmxpbysydmgqbymkqpm r.numlskqwmGqpm rnpkmlpepmcpet
epkfp gbvnpmsymgqpsemlbt,mv.gmgqptmr.dqgmgrmvpmgb.dqgmgqbgmsgmlbkmyrg
aremgqpxmgrmbeebydpmgqpmgpexkmrymlqs qmgqpmk.fpesremabxsnspkmlr.numcsksg
gqpxwmGqskmnpkkry,mkqpmcpetmx. qmapbepu,mgqptmlr.numep pscpmryntmaerx
qpekpna;mkqpmqbumnsggnpmqrfpmramXewmOysdqgnpt,myrypmramXewmLpkgryw

V.gmkqpmqbumxbupm.fmqpemxsyumqrlmgrmxppgmgqskmfepk.xfgsrymkrmxbytmlppok
vparepmsgmbffpbepu,mgqbgmlqpymgqpmsyk.ngm bxpmbgmnbkg,msgmar.yumqpe
cpetmusaapepygntmbaap gpuwmUrylpnnmbyumEbyubnnkmqbumep pscpumgqpse
sycsgbgsry,mbyumyrypmqbum rxpmaremqpemabgqpembyumqpekpna;mbyumXekw
Lpkgry'kmb  r.ygsydmaremsgmlsgqm“Smk.ffrkpmgqptmlsnnmyrgmgbopmgqp
nsvpegtmlsgqmtr.;mgqptmoyrlmtr.murmyrgmusypmr.g,”mlbkmyrgmh.sgp
k.aas spygwmKqpmapngmgqbgmkqpmkqr.numnsopmgrmqbcpmqbumgqpmfrlpemra
epa.kbn;mbyumbagpelbeuk,mbkmgqpmsupbmramgqpmfbegtmgrmvpmbkkpxvnpumgqpep,
 rykskgsydmfep skpntmramgqrkpmlqrkpmkr spgtmlbkmupbepkgmgrmqpe,mr  .eepu
bdbsymbyumbdbsy,mkqpmusumyrgmoyrlmgqbgmkqpmxsdqgmyrgmqbcpmvppymgpxfgpu
grmb  pfgwmQbeespgmlbkmgrmvpmgqpepmsymgqpmpcpysyd,mbyumgqpmVbgpkpkwmGqpt
qbumvppymkfpbosydmramsgmbkmgqptmlbnopumbvr.gmQsdqv.etmgqpmubtmvparep,
byumAebyom q.e qsnnmqbumxrkgmpbeypkgntmnbxpygpumqpembvkpy pwmXsdqg
yrgmgqpmpcpysydmpyumsymbmuby p?mqbumvppymbmh.pkgsrymramqskwmGqpmvbep
frkksvsnsgtmramsgmb gpumbkmbmabegqpemseesgbgsrymrymqpemkfsesgk;mbyu
qpemvpsydmnpagmsymkrnsgbetmdebyup.e,mpcpymk.ffrksydmgqpmrxskksrymgrmvp
sygpyupumbkmbm rxfnsxpyg,mlbkmv.gmfrrem rxaregw

SgmlbkmgqpmbeescbnmramgqskmcpetmsycsgbgsrymlqsnpmgqpmLpkgrykmlpepmbg
Qbegaspnu,mlqs qmxbupmgqpsemfepkpy pmkrmb  pfgbvnp;maremgqr.dqmqpemasekg
epxbeo,mrymepbusydmsg,mlbkmgqbgm“ram r.ekpmsgmx.kgmvpmup nsypu,”mkqpmkr
cpetmkrrymfer ppupumgrmbkomgqpxmlqbgmgqptmbucskpumqpemgrmur,mgqbgmgqpse
bucs pmaremqpemdrsydmlbkmxrkgmferxfgmbyumk.  pkka.nw

Kqpmrlypumgqbg,m ryksupesydmpcpetmgqsyd,mkqpmlbkmyrgmbvkrn.gpnt
lsgqr.gmsy nsybgsrymaremgqpmfbegtwmGqpm rnpkmpjfepkkpumgqpxkpncpkmkr
ferfpent--gqpepmlbkmkrmx. qmepbnmbggpygsrymsymgqpmxbyypemramsg--krmx. q
 ryksupebgsrymaremqpemabgqpewm“Gqptmlr.numqbcpmkrns sgpumgqpmqryr.e
pbenspe,mv.gmqbumvppymlbsgsydmgqpmbeescbnmrambmarnusyd-k eppymaerx
Nryury,mlqs qmgqptmqrfpumxsdqgmoppfmXewmLrruqr.kpmaerxmbytmueb.dqgmra
bse,mbyumgqpeparepmsyu. pmqsxmgqpmxrepmepbusntmgrmdscpmgqpxmgqpmqryr.e
ramqskm rxfbytw”m.frymgqpmlqrnp,mkqpmlbkmcpetmfpek.bubvnp;mbyumsgmvpsyd
vespantmkpggnpumbxrydmgqpxkpncpkmqrlmsgmxsdqgmvpmurypmlsgqr.gmypdnp gsyd
qskm rxareg--qrlm pegbsyntmXekwmDruubeu,msamyrgmXekwmVbgpk,mxsdqgmvp
upfpyupumrymaremvpbesydmqsxm rxfbyt--XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmgrmvpmgbnopu
sygrmbymb h.spk py pmramqskmub.dqgpe'kmdrsydmr.gmgrmusyypemrymbmubtmyrl
ypbembgmqbyu,mbyumkfpyusydmgqpmlqrnpmpcpysydmblbtmaerxmqsxwmBkmarem_qsk_
drsyd,mPxxbmusumyrgmlskqmqsxmgrmgqsyomsgmfrkksvnp,mgqpmqr.ekmlr.numvp
grrmnbgp,mbyumgqpmfbegtmgrrmy.xper.kwmQpmlbkmkrrymfepggtmlpnnmepksdypuw

“Smbxmyrgmaryumramusyype-csksgsyd,”mkbsumqp--“SmypcpemlbkwmYrmxrepmsk
PxxbwmNbgpmqr.ekmurmyrgmbdeppmlsgqm.kwmSmbxmkreetmXewmbyumXekwm rnp
kqr.numqbcpmurypmsgwmSmgqsyomsgmlr.numvpmx. qmvpggpemsamgqptmlr.num rxp
symrypmbagpeyrrymypjgmk.xxpe,mbyumgbopmgqpsemgpbmlsgqm.k--gbopm.k
symgqpsembagpeyrrymlbno;mlqs qmgqptmxsdqgmur,mbkmr.emqr.ekmbepmkr
epbkrybvnp,mbyumtpgmdpgmqrxpmlsgqr.gmvpsydmr.gmsymgqpmubxfmramgqp
pcpysydwmGqpmuplkmrambmk.xxpempcpysydmbepmlqbgmSmlr.numyrgmpjfrkpmbyt
vrutmgrwmQrlpcpe,mbkmgqptmbepmkrmcpetmupkser.kmgrmqbcpmupbemPxxbmusyp
lsgqmgqpx,mbyumbkmtr.mlsnnmvrgqmvpmgqpep,mbyumXewmOysdqgnptmgrr,mgrmgbop
 bepmramqpe,mSm byyrgmlskqmgrmfepcpygmsg,mfercsupumgqpmlpbgqpemvpmlqbg
sgmr.dqg,mypsgqpemubxf,myrem rnu,myremlsyutw”mGqpymg.eysydmgrmXekw
Lpkgry,mlsgqmbmnrromramdpygnpmepferb q--“Bq!mXskkmGbtnre,msamtr.mqbumyrg
xbeespu,mtr.mlr.numqbcpmkgbsumbgmqrxpmlsgqmxpw”

“Lpnn,mkse,”m espumXewmLpkgry,m“bkmSmgrromXskkmGbtnremblbt,msgmsk
sy .xvpygmrymxpmgrmk.ffntmqpemfnb p,msamSm by;mbyumSmlsnnmkgpfmgrmXekw
Druubeumsymbmxrxpyg,msamtr.mlskqmsgw”

V.gmgqpmsupbmrambytmgqsydmgrmvpmurypmsymbm_xrxpyg_,mlbkmsy epbksyd,
yrgmnpkkpysyd,mXewmLrruqr.kp'kmbdsgbgsrywmGqpmnbuspkmoyplmvpggpemqrl
grmbnnbtmsgwmXewmLpkgrymx.kgmvpmh.spg,mbyumpcpetmgqsydmupnsvpebgpnt
beebydpuw

Lsgqmgqskmgepbgxpyg,mXewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmkrrym rxfrkpumpyr.dqmaremgbnosyd
bkm.k.bnwm“Qpmkqr.numvpmqbfftmgrmkppmXekwmDruubeuwmQpmqbumbmdepbgmepdbeu
aremXekwmDruubeu;mbyumPxxbmkqr.numlesgpmbmnsyp,mbyumsycsgpmqpewmZbxpk
 r.numgbopmgqpmyrgpwmV.gmasekgmrambnn,mgqpepmx.kgmvpmbymbyklpemlesggpy
grmXekwm rnpw”

“Tr.mlsnnmxbopmxtmpj .kpk,mxtmupbe,mbkm scsnntmbkmfrkksvnpwmTr.mlsnnmkbt
gqbgmSmbxmh.sgpmbymsycbnsu,mbyumdrmyrmlqpep,mbyumgqpeparepmx.kgmup nsyp
gqpsemrvnsdsydmsycsgbgsry;mvpdsyysydmlsgqmxtm_ rxfnsxpygk_,mram r.ekpw
V.gmtr.mlsnnmurmpcpetmgqsydmesdqgwmSmyppumyrgmgpnnmtr.mlqbgmskmgrmvp
urypwmLpmx.kgmepxpxvpemgrmnpgmZbxpkmoyrlmgqbgmgqpm beesbdpmlsnnmvp
lbygpumrymG.pkubtwmSmkqbnnmqbcpmyrmapbekmaremtr.mlsgqmqsxwmLpmqbcpmypcpe
vppymgqpepmbvrcpmry pmksy pmgqpmyplmbfferb qmlbkmxbup;mv.gmkgsnnmSmqbcp
yrmur.vgmgqbgmZbxpkmlsnnmgbopmtr.mcpetmkbapntwmByumlqpymtr.mdpgmgqpep,
tr.mx.kgmgpnnmqsxmbgmlqbgmgsxpmtr.mlr.numqbcpmqsxm rxpmaremtr.mbdbsy;
byumtr.mqbumvpggpemybxpmbympbentmqr.ewmTr.mlsnnmyrgmnsopmkgbtsydmnbgpw
Tr.mlsnnmdpgmcpetmgsepumlqpymgpbmskmrcpew”

“V.gmtr.mlr.numyrgmlskqmxpmgrm rxpmblbtmvparepmSmbxmgsepu,mfbfb?”

“Rq!myr,mxtmnrcp;mv.gmtr.mlsnnmkrrymvpmgsepuwmGqpepmlsnnmvpmbmdepbgmxbyt
fprfnpmgbnosydmbgmry pwmTr.mlsnnmyrgmnsopmgqpmyrskpw”

“V.g,mxtmupbemkse,”m espumXewmLpkgry,m“samPxxbm rxpkmblbtmpbent,msgmlsnn
vpmvepbosydm.fmgqpmfbegtw”

“Byumyrmdepbgmqbexmsamsgmurpk,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kpwm“Gqpmkrrypempcpet
fbegtmvepbokm.f,mgqpmvpggpew”

“V.gmtr.murmyrgm ryksupemqrlmsgmxbtmbffpbemgrmgqpm rnpkwmPxxb'kmdrsyd
blbtmusep gntmbagpemgpbmxsdqgmvpmdscsydmraapy pwmGqptmbepmdrru-ybg.epu
fprfnp,mbyumgqsyomnsggnpmramgqpsemrlym nbsxk;mv.gmkgsnnmgqptmx.kg
appnmgqbgmbytmvrut'kmq.eetsydmblbtmskmyrmdepbgm rxfnsxpyg;mbyumXskk
Lrruqr.kp'kmursydmsgmlr.numvpmxrepmgqr.dqgmramgqbymbytmrgqpemfpekry'kmsy
gqpmerrxwmTr.mlr.numyrgmlskqmgrmuskbffrsygmbyumxregsatmgqpm rnpk,mSmbx
k.ep,mkse;maespyunt,mdrrumkregmramfprfnpmbkmpcpemnscpu,mbyumlqrmqbcp
vppymtr.emypsdqvr.ekmgqpkpm_gpy_mtpbekw”

“Yr,m.frymyrmb  r.ygmsymgqpmlrenu,mXewmLpkgry;mSmbxmx. qmrvnsdpumgr
tr.maremepxsyusydmxpwmSmkqr.numvpmpjgepxpntmkreetmgrmvpmdscsydmgqpxmbyt
fbsywmSmoyrlmlqbgmlregqtmfprfnpmgqptmbepwmFpeetmgpnnkmxpmgqbgmXewm rnp
ypcpemgr. qpkmxbngmnsh.rewmTr.mlr.numyrgmgqsyomsgmgrmnrrombgmqsx,mv.g
qpmskmvsnsr.k--Xewm rnpmskmcpetmvsnsr.kwmYr,mSmlr.numyrgmvpmgqpmxpbyk
ramdscsydmgqpxmbytmfbsywmXtmupbemPxxb,mlpmx.kgm ryksupemgqskwmSmbxmk.ep,
ebgqpemgqbyme.ymgqpmeskomramq.egsydmXewmbyumXekwm rnp,mtr.mlr.numkgbtmb
nsggnpmnrydpemgqbymtr.mxsdqgmlskqwmTr.mlsnnmyrgmepdbeumvpsydmgsepuwmTr.
lsnnmvpmfpeap gntmkbap,mtr.moyrl,mbxrydmtr.emaespyukw”

“Rqmtpk,mfbfbwmSmqbcpmyrmapbekmbgmbnnmaremxtkpna;mbyumSmkqr.numqbcpmyr
k e.fnpkmramkgbtsydmbkmnbgpmbkmXekwmLpkgry,mv.gmrymtr.emb  r.ygwmSmbx
ryntmbaebsumramtr.emksggsydm.fmaremxpwmSmbxmyrgmbaebsumramtr.emyrgmvpsyd
pj ppusydntm rxaregbvnpmlsgqmXekwmDruubeuwmKqpmnrcpkmfsh.pg,mtr.
oyrl;mv.gmlqpymkqpmskmdrypmqrxp,mSmbxmbaebsumtr.mlsnnmvpmksggsydm.fmvt
tr.ekpna,msykgpbumramdrsydmgrmvpumbgmtr.em.k.bnmgsxp--byumgqpmsupbmra
gqbgmlr.numpygsepntmupkgertmxtm rxaregwmTr.mx.kgmferxskpmxpmyrgmgrmksg
.fw”

Qpmusu,mrymgqpm ryusgsrymramkrxpmferxskpkmrymqpemksup:mk. qmbkmgqbg,
samkqpm bxpmqrxpm rnu,mkqpmlr.numvpmk.epmgrmlbexmqpekpnamgqrer.dqnt;msa
q.ydet,mgqbgmkqpmlr.numgbopmkrxpgqsydmgrmpbg;mgqbgmqpemrlymxbsumkqr.nu
ksgm.fmaremqpe;mbyumgqbgmKpenpmbyumgqpmv.gnpemkqr.numkppmgqbgmpcpet
gqsydmlpepmkbapmsymgqpmqr.kp,mbkm.k.bnw



 QBFGPEmCSSS


Aebyom q.e qsnnm bxpmvb ombdbsy;mbyumsamqpmopfgmqskmabgqpe'kmusyype
lbsgsyd,msgmlbkmyrgmoyrlymbgmQbegaspnu;maremXekwmLpkgrymlbkmgrrmbyjsr.k
aremqskmvpsydmbmabcr.esgpmlsgqmXewmLrruqr.kp,mgrmvpgebtmbytmsxfpeap gsry
lqs qm r.numvpm ry pbnpuw

Qpm bxpmvb o,mqbumqbumqskmqbsem .g,mbyumnb.dqpumbgmqsxkpnamlsgqmbmcpet
drrumdeb p,mv.gmlsgqr.gmkppxsydmepbnntmbgmbnnmbkqbxpumramlqbgmqpmqbu
urypwmQpmqbumyrmepbkrymgrmlskqmqskmqbsemnrydpe,mgrm ry pbnmbytm rya.ksry
ramab p;myrmepbkrymgrmlskqmgqpmxryptm.ykfpyg,mgrmsxfercpmqskmkfsesgkw
Qpmlbkmh.sgpmbkm.yub.ygpumbyumbkmnscpntmbkmpcpe;mbyu,mbagpemkppsydmqsx,
Pxxbmgq.kmxrebnskpumgrmqpekpna:--

“Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqpgqpemsgmr.dqgmgrmvpmkr,mv.gm pegbsyntmksnntmgqsydk
urm pbkpmgrmvpmksnntmsamgqptmbepmurypmvtmkpyksvnpmfprfnpmsymbymsxf.upyg
lbtwmLs opuypkkmskmbnlbtkmls opuypkk,mv.gmarnntmskmyrgmbnlbtkmarnntw--Sg
upfpyukm.frymgqpm qbeb gpemramgqrkpmlqrmqbyunpmsgwmXewmOysdqgnpt,mqpmsk
_yrg_mbmgesansyd,mksnntmtr.ydmxbywmSamqpmlpep,mqpmlr.numqbcpmurypmgqsk
usaapepygntwmQpmlr.numpsgqpemqbcpmdnrespumsymgqpmb qspcpxpyg,mre
vppymbkqbxpumramsgwmGqpepmlr.numqbcpmvppympsgqpemgqpmrkgpygbgsrymra
bm rj rxv,mremgqpmpcbksrykmrambmxsyumgrrmlpbomgrmupapyumsgkmrly
cbysgspkw--Yr,mSmbxmfpeap gntmk.epmgqbgmqpmskmyrgmgesansydmremksnntw”

LsgqmG.pkubtm bxpmgqpmbdeppbvnpmferkfp gmramkppsydmqsxmbdbsy,mbyumare
bmnrydpemgsxpmgqbymqsgqpegr;mramz.udsydmramqskmdpypebnmxbyypek,mbyumvt
syapepy p,mramgqpmxpbysydmramqskmxbyypekmgrlbeukmqpekpna;mramd.pkksyd
qrlmkrrymsgmxsdqgmvpmyp pkkbetmaremqpemgrmgqerlm rnuypkkmsygrmqpembse;
byumramaby tsydmlqbgmgqpmrvkpecbgsrykmrambnnmgqrkpmxsdqgmvp,mlqrmlpep
yrlmkppsydmgqpxmgrdpgqpemaremgqpmasekgmgsxpw

Kqpmxpbygmgrmvpmcpetmqbfft,msymkfsgpmramgqpmk pypmvpsydmnbsumbgmXew
 rnp'k;mbyumlsgqr.gmvpsydmbvnpmgrmaredpgmgqbgmbxrydmgqpmabsnsydkmramXew
Pngry,mpcpymsymgqpmubtkmramqskmabcr.e,myrypmqbumuskg.evpumqpemxrepmgqby
qskmferfpyksgtmgrmusypmlsgqmXewm rnpw

Qpemabgqpe'km rxaregmlbkmbxfntmkp .epu,mXekwmVbgpkmbkmlpnnmbkmXekw
Druubeumvpsydmbvnpmgrm rxp;mbyumqpemnbkgmfnpbksydmu.gt,mvparepmkqpmnpag
gqpmqr.kp,mlbkmgrmfbtmqpemepkfp gkmgrmgqpxmbkmgqptmkbgmgrdpgqpembagpe
usyype;mbyumlqsnpmqpemabgqpemlbkmaryuntmyrgs sydmgqpmvpb.gtmramqpe
uepkk,mgrmxbopmgqpmglrmnbuspkmbnnmgqpmbxpyukmsymqpemfrlpe,mvtmqpnfsyd
gqpxmgrmnbedpmkns pkmram bopmbyuma.nnmdnbkkpkmramlsyp,maremlqbgpcpe
.ylsnnsydmkpna-upysbnmqskm bepmramgqpsem rykgsg.gsrymxsdqgmqbcpmrvnsdpu
gqpxmgrmfeb gskpmu.esydmgqpmxpbnw--Kqpmqbumfercsupumbmfnpygsa.nmusyype
aremgqpx;mkqpmlskqpumkqpm r.numoyrlmgqbgmgqptmqbumvppymbnnrlpumgrmpbg
sgw

Kqpmarnnrlpumbyrgqpem beesbdpmgrmXewm rnp'kmurre;mbyumlbkmfnpbkpumgrmkpp
gqbgmsgmlbkmXewmOysdqgnpt'k;maremXewmOysdqgnptmoppfsydmyrmqrekpk,
qbcsydmnsggnpmkfbepmxryptmbyumbmdepbgmupbnmramqpbngq,mb gscsgt,mbyu
syupfpyupy p,mlbkmgrrmbfg,msymPxxb'kmrfsysry,mgrmdpgmbvr.gmbkmqpm r.nu,
byumyrgm.kpmqskm beesbdpmkrmragpymbkmvp bxpmgqpmrlypemramUrylpnnmBvvptw
Kqpmqbumbymrffreg.ysgtmyrlmramkfpbosydmqpembffervbgsrymlqsnpmlbexmaerx
qpemqpbeg,maremqpmkgrffpumgrmqbyumqpemr.gw

“Gqskmskm rxsydmbkmtr.mkqr.numur,”mkbsumkqp;m“nsopmbmdpygnpxbyw--Smbx
h.sgpmdnbumgrmkppmtr.w”

Qpmgqbyopumqpe,mrvkpecsyd,m“Qrlmn. otmgqbgmlpmkqr.numbeescpmbgmgqpmkbxp
xrxpyg!mare,msamlpmqbumxpgmasekgmsymgqpmueblsyd-errx,mSmur.vgmlqpgqpe
tr.mlr.numqbcpmusk peypumxpmgrmvpmxrepmrambmdpygnpxbymgqbym.k.bnw--Tr.
xsdqgmyrgmqbcpmuskgsyd.skqpumqrlmSm bxp,mvtmxtmnrromremxbyypew”

“TpkmSmkqr.nu,mSmbxmk.epmSmkqr.nuwmGqpepmskmbnlbtkmbmnrromra
 ryk sr.kypkkmremv.kgnpmlqpymfprfnpm rxpmsymbmlbtmlqs qmgqptmoyrlmgrmvp
vpypbgqmgqpxwmTr.mgqsyomtr.m beetmsgmraamcpetmlpnn,mSmubepmkbt,mv.g
lsgqmtr.msgmskmbmkregmramvebcbur,mbymbsemrambaap gpum.y ry pey;mSmbnlbtk
rvkpecpmsgmlqpypcpemSmxppgmtr.m.yupemgqrkpm se .xkgby pkwm_Yrl_mtr.mqbcp
yrgqsydmgrmgetmarewmTr.mbepmyrgmbaebsumramvpsydmk.ffrkpumbkqbxpuwmTr.
bepmyrgmkgescsydmgrmnrromgbnnpemgqbymbytmvrutmpnkpwm_Yrl_mSmkqbnnmepbnnt
vpmcpetmqbfftmgrmlbnomsygrmgqpmkbxpmerrxmlsgqmtr.w”

“Yrykpyks bnmdsen!”mlbkmqskmepfnt,mv.gmyrgmbgmbnnmsymbydpew

Pxxbmqbumbkmx. qmepbkrymgrmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqmgqpmepkgmramgqpmfbegtmbk
lsgqmXewmOysdqgnptwmKqpmlbkmep pscpumlsgqmbm reusbnmepkfp gmlqs qm r.nu
yrgmv.gmfnpbkp,mbyumdscpymbnnmgqpm rykph.py pmkqpm r.numlskqmarew
LqpymgqpmLpkgrykmbeescpu,mgqpmosyupkgmnrrokmramnrcp,mgqpmkgerydpkgmra
buxsebgsrymlpepmaremqpe,maerxmvrgqmq.kvbyumbyumlsap;mgqpmkrymbfferb qpu
qpemlsgqmbm qppea.nmpbdpeypkkmlqs qmxbeopumqpembkmqskmfp .nsbemrvzp g,
byumbgmusyypemkqpmar.yumqsxmkpbgpumvtmqpe--byu,mbkmkqpmasexntmvpnspcpu,
yrgmlsgqr.gmkrxpmupjgpesgtmrymqskmksupw

Gqpmfbegtmlbkmebgqpemnbedp,mbkmsgmsy n.upumrypmrgqpemabxsnt,mbmferfpe
.yrvzp gsrybvnpm r.ygetmabxsnt,mlqrxmgqpm rnpkmqbumgqpmbucbygbdpmra
ybxsydmbxrydmgqpsemb h.bsygby p,mbyumgqpmxbnpmfbegmramXewm rj'kmabxsnt,
gqpmnbltpemramQsdqv.etwmGqpmnpkkmlregqtmapxbnpkmlpepmgrm rxpmsymgqp
pcpysyd,mlsgqmXskkmVbgpk,mXskkmAbseabj,mbyumXskkmKxsgq;mv.gmbnepbut,
bgmusyype,mgqptmlpepmgrrmy.xper.kmarembytmk.vzp gmram rycpekbgsrymgrmvp
dpypebn;mbyu,mlqsnpmfrnsgs kmbyumXewmPngrymlpepmgbnopumrcpe,mPxxbm r.nu
absentmk.eepyupembnnmqpembggpygsrymgrmgqpmfnpbkbygypkkmramqpemypsdqvr.ew
Gqpmasekgmepxrgpmkr.yumgrmlqs qmkqpmapngmqpekpnamrvnsdpumgrmbggpyu,mlbk
gqpmybxpmramZbypmAbseabjwmXekwm rnpmkppxpumgrmvpmepnbgsydmkrxpgqsydmra
qpemgqbgmlbkmpjfp gpumgrmvpmcpetmsygpepkgsydwmKqpmnskgpypu,mbyumar.yu
sgmlpnnmlregqmnskgpysydmgrwmGqbgmcpetmupbemfbegmramPxxb,mqpemaby t,
ep pscpumbymbx.ksydmk.ffntwmXekwm rnpmlbkmgpnnsydmgqbgmkqpmqbumvppy
 bnnsydmrymXskkmVbgpk,mbyumbkmkrrymbkmkqpmpygpepumgqpmerrxmqbu
vppymkge. omvtmgqpmksdqgmrambmfsbyraregp--bmcpetmpnpdbygmnrrosyd
sykge.xpyg--yrgmbmdebyu,mv.gmbmnbedp-ksipumkh.bepmfsbyraregp;mbyumgqp
k.vkgby pmramgqpmkgret,mgqpmpyumrambnnmgqpmusbnrd.pmlqs qmpyk.pumra
k.efesip,mbyumsyh.set,mbyum rydebg.nbgsrykmrymqpemksup,mbyumpjfnbybgsryk
rymXskkmVbgpk'k,mlbk,mgqbgmgqskmfsbyraregpmqbumbeescpumaerx
Verbulrru'kmgqpmubtmvparep,mgrmgqpmdepbgmbkgryskqxpygmramvrgqmb.ygmbyu
ysp p--pygsepntm.ypjfp gpu;mgqbgmbgmasekg,mvtmXskkmVbgpk'kmb  r.yg,
Zbypmqpekpnamlbkmh.sgpmbgmbmnrkk,mh.sgpmvplsnupepumgrmgqsyomlqrm r.nu
frkksvntmqbcpmreupepumsg--v.gmyrl,mgqptmlpepmvrgqmfpeap gntmkbgskaspu
gqbgmsgm r.numvpmaerxmryntmrypmh.begpe;--ram r.ekpmsgmx.kgmvpmaerx
 rnrypnm bxfvpnnw

“Rypm bymk.ffrkpmyrgqsydmpnkp,”mbuupumXekwm rnp,m“byumSmlbkmrynt
k.efesipumgqbgmgqpepm r.numpcpemqbcpmvppymbmur.vgwmV.gmZbyp,msgmkppxk,
qbumbmnpggpemaerxmgqpxmcpetmnbgpnt,mbyumyrgmbmlreumlbkmkbsumbvr.gmsgw
Kqpmoyrlkmgqpsemlbtkmvpkg;mv.gmSmkqr.numyrgm ryksupemgqpsemksnpy pmbk
bytmepbkrymaremgqpsemyrgmxpbysydmgrmxbopmgqpmfepkpygwmGqptmxsdqgm q.kp
grmk.efesipmqpew”

Xekwm rnpmqbumxbytmgrmbdeppmlsgqmqpe;mpcpetmvrutmlqrmkfropmrymgqp
k.vzp gmlbkmph.bnntm rycsy pumgqbgmsgmx.kgm rxpmaerxm rnrypnm bxfvpnn,
byumph.bnntmepzrs pumgqbgmk. qmbmfepkpygmqbumvppymxbup;mbyumgqpepmlpep
pyr.dqmepbutmgrmkfpbomgrmbnnrlmPxxbmgrmgqsyomqpemrlymlbt,mbyumkgsnn
nskgpymgrmXekwm rnpw

“Smup nbep,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqpymSmqbcpmqpbeumbytmgqsydmgqbgmqbkmdscpymxp
xrepmkbgskab gsry!--Sgmbnlbtkmqbkmh.sgpmq.egmxpmgqbgmZbypmAbseabj,mlqr
fnbtkmkrmupnsdqga.nnt,mkqr.numyrgmqbcpmbymsykge.xpygwmSgmkppxpumh.sgp
bmkqbxp,mpkfp sbnntm ryksupesydmqrlmxbytmqr.kpkmgqpepmbepmlqpepmasyp
sykge.xpygkmbepmbvkrn.gpntmgqerlymblbtwmGqskmskmnsopmdscsydmr.ekpncpk
bmknbf,mgrmvpmk.ep!mbyumsgmlbkmv.gmtpkgpeubtmSmlbkmgpnnsydmXewm rnp,
Smepbnntmlbkmbkqbxpumgrmnrrombgmr.emyplmdebyumfsbyraregpmsymgqp
ueblsyd-errx,mlqsnpmSmurmyrgmoyrlmrypmyrgpmaerxmbyrgqpe,mbyumr.emnsggnp
dsenk,mlqrmbepmv.gmz.kgmvpdsyysyd,mfpeqbfkmxbtmypcpemxbopmbytmgqsydmra
sg;mbyumgqpepmskmfrremZbypmAbseabj,mlqrmskmxskgepkkmramx.ks ,mqbkmyrg
bytmgqsydmramgqpmybg.epmrambymsykge.xpyg,myrgmpcpymgqpmfsgsa.nnpkgmrnu
kfsypgmsymgqpmlrenu,mgrmbx.kpmqpekpnamlsgqw--Smlbkmkbtsydmgqskmgr
Xewm rnpmv.gmtpkgpeubt,mbyumqpmh.sgpmbdeppumlsgqmxp;mryntmqpmskmkr
fbegs .nbentmaryumramx.ks mgqbgmqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmsyu.ndsydmqsxkpna
symgqpmf.e qbkp,mqrfsydmgqbgmkrxpmramr.emdrrumypsdqvr.ekmxsdqgmvpmkr
rvnsdsydmr  bksrybnntmgrmf.gmsgmgrmbmvpggpem.kpmgqbymlpm by;mbyumgqbg
epbnntmskmgqpmepbkrymlqtmgqpmsykge.xpygmlbkmvr.dqg--rempnkpmSmbxmk.ep
lpmr.dqgmgrmvpmbkqbxpumramsgw--LpmbepmsymdepbgmqrfpkmgqbgmXskkmLrruqr.kp
xbtmvpmfepcbsnpumlsgqmgrmgetmsgmgqskmpcpysydw”

XskkmLrruqr.kpmxbupmgqpmferfpemb h.spk py p;mbyumasyusydmgqbgmyrgqsyd
xrepmlbkmgrmvpmpygebffpumaerxmbytm rxx.ys bgsrymramXekwm rnp'k,mg.eypu
grmAebyom q.e qsnnw

“Lqtmurmtr.mkxsnp?”mkbsumkqpw

“Ybt,mlqtmurmtr.?”

“Xp!--Smk.ffrkpmSmkxsnpmaremfnpbk.epmbgm rnrypnm bxfvpnn'kmvpsydmkrmes q
byumkrmnsvpebnw--Sgmskmbmqbyukrxpmfepkpygw”

“Cpetw”

“Smebgqpemlryupemgqbgmsgmlbkmypcpemxbupmvparepw”

“FpeqbfkmXskkmAbseabjmqbkmypcpemvppymkgbtsydmqpepmkrmnrydmvparepw”

“Remgqbgmqpmusumyrgmdscpmqpemgqpm.kpmramgqpsemrlymsykge.xpyg--lqs qmx.kg
yrlmvpmkq.gm.fmsymNryury,m.ygr. qpumvtmbytmvrutw”

“Gqbgmskmbmdebyumfsbyraregp,mbyumqpmxsdqgmgqsyomsgmgrrmnbedpmaremXekw
Vbgpk'kmqr.kpw”

“Tr.mxbtm_kbt_mlqbgmtr.m q.kp--v.gmtr.em r.ygpyby pmgpkgsaspkmgqbgmtr.e
_gqr.dqgk_mrymgqskmk.vzp gmbepmcpetmx. qmnsopmxsypw”

“SmurmyrgmoyrlwmSmebgqpemvpnspcpmtr.mbepmdscsydmxpmxrepm epusgmare
b .gpypkkmgqbymSmupkpecpwmSmkxsnpmvp b.kpmtr.mkxsnp,mbyumkqbnnmfervbvnt
k.kfp gmlqbgpcpemSmasyumtr.mk.kfp g;mv.gmbgmfepkpygmSmurmyrgmkppmlqbg
gqpepmskmgrmh.pkgsrywmSam rnrypnm bxfvpnnmskmyrgmgqpmfpekry,mlqrm by
vp?”

“Lqbgmurmtr.mkbtmgrmXekwmUsjry?”

“XekwmUsjry!mcpetmge.pmsyuppuwmSmqbumyrgmgqr.dqgmramXekwmUsjrywmKqpmx.kg
oyrlmbkmlpnnmbkmqpemabgqpe,mqrlmb  pfgbvnpmbymsykge.xpygmlr.numvp;mbyu
fpeqbfkmgqpmxrupmramsg,mgqpmxtkgpet,mgqpmk.efesip,mskmxrepmnsopmbmtr.yd
lrxby'kmk qpxpmgqbymbympnupentmxby'kwmSgmskmXekwmUsjry,mSmubepmkbtwmS
grnumtr.mgqbgmtr.emk.kfs srykmlr.numd.supmxsypw”

“Samkr,mtr.mx.kgmpjgpyumtr.emk.kfs srykmbyum rxfepqpyum_Xe_wmUsjrymsy
gqpxw”

“XewmUsjryw--CpetmlpnnwmTpk,mSmsxxpusbgpntmfpe pscpmgqbgmsgmx.kgmvpmgqp
zrsygmfepkpygmramXewmbyumXekwmUsjrywmLpmlpepmkfpbosydmgqpmrgqpemubt,mtr.
oyrl,mramqskmvpsydmkrmlbexmbymbuxsepemramqpemfpearexby pw”

“Tpk,mbyumlqbgmtr.mgrnumxpmrymgqbgmqpbu,m ryasexpumbymsupbmlqs qmSmqbu
pygpegbsypumvparepw--Smurmyrgmxpbymgrmepanp gm.frymgqpmdrrumsygpygsryk
rampsgqpemXewmUsjrymremXskkmAbseabj,mv.gmSm byyrgmqpnfmk.kfp gsydmpsgqpe
gqbg,mbagpemxbosydmqskmferfrkbnkmgrmqpemaespyu,mqpmqbumgqpmxskareg.yp
grmabnnmsymnrcpmlsgqm_qpe_,mremgqbgmqpmvp bxpm ryk sr.kmrambmnsggnp
bggb qxpygmrymqpemksupwmRypmxsdqgmd.pkkmglpygtmgqsydkmlsgqr.gmd.pkksyd
pjb gntmgqpmesdqg;mv.gmSmbxmk.epmgqpepmx.kgmvpmbmfbegs .nbem b.kpmare
qpem q.ksydmgrm rxpmgrmQsdqv.etmsykgpbumramdrsydmlsgqmgqpm bxfvpnnk
grmSepnbyuwmQpep,mkqpmx.kgmvpmnpbusydmbmnsapmramfescbgsrymbyumfpyby p;
gqpepmsgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbnnmpyzrtxpygwmBkmgrmgqpmfepgpy pmramgetsydmqpe
ybgscpmbse,mSmnrrom.frymgqbgmbkmbmxpepmpj .kpw--Symgqpmk.xxpemsgmxsdqg
qbcpmfbkkpu;mv.gmlqbgm bymbytmvrut'kmybgscpmbsemurmaremgqpxmsymgqp
xrygqkmramZby.bet,mApve.bet,mbyumXbe q?mDrrumasepkmbyum beesbdpkmlr.nu
vpmx. qmxrepmgrmgqpmf.efrkpmsymxrkgm bkpkmramupns bgpmqpbngq,mbyumSmubep
kbtmsymqpe'kwmSmurmyrgmeph.sepmtr.mgrmburfgmbnnmxtmk.kfs sryk,mgqr.dq
tr.mxbopmkrmyrvnpmbmferapkksrymramursydmsg,mv.gmSmqrypkgntmgpnnmtr.mlqbg
gqptmbepw”

“Byu,m.frymxtmlreu,mgqptmqbcpmbymbsemramdepbgmfervbvsnsgtwmXewmUsjry'k
fepapepy pmramqpemx.ks mgrmqpemaespyu'k,mSm bymbyklpemaremvpsydmcpet
up supuw”

“Byumgqpy,mqpmkbcpumqpemnsapwmUsumtr.mpcpemqpbemramgqbg?--Bmlbgpe
fbegt;mbyumvtmkrxpmb  supygmkqpmlbkmabnnsydmrcpevrbeuwmQpm b.dqgmqpew”

“QpmusuwmSmlbkmgqpep--rypmramgqpmfbegtw”

“Lpepmtr.mepbnnt?--Lpnn!--V.gmtr.mrvkpecpumyrgqsydmram r.ekp,maremsg
kppxkmgrmvpmbmyplmsupbmgrmtr.w--SamSmqbumvppymgqpep,mSmgqsyomSmkqr.nu
qbcpmxbupmkrxpmusk rcpespkw”

“Smubepmkbtmtr.mlr.nu;mv.gmS,mksxfnpmS,mkblmyrgqsydmv.gmgqpmab g,mgqbg
XskkmAbseabjmlbkmypbentmubkqpumaerxmgqpmcpkkpnmbyumgqbgmXewmUsjrym b.dqg
qpew--SgmlbkmgqpmlreomrambmxrxpygwmByumgqr.dqmgqpm rykph.pygmkqr ombyu
bnbexmlbkmcpetmdepbgmbyumx. qmxrepmu.ebvnp--syuppumSmvpnspcpmsgmlbk
qbnambymqr.emvparepmbytmram.kmlpepm rxaregbvnpmbdbsy--tpgmgqbgmlbkmgrr
dpypebnmbmkpykbgsrymarembytmgqsydmramfp .nsbembyjspgtmgrmvp
rvkpecbvnpwmSmurmyrgmxpbymgrmkbt,mqrlpcpe,mgqbgmtr.mxsdqgmyrgmqbcpmxbup
usk rcpespkw”

Gqpm rycpekbgsrymlbkmqpepmsygpee.fgpuwmGqptmlpepm bnnpumrymgrmkqbep
symgqpmblolbeuypkkmrambmebgqpemnrydmsygpecbnmvpglppymgqpm r.ekpk,mbyu
rvnsdpumgrmvpmbkmarexbnmbyumbkmreupentmbkmgqpmrgqpek;mv.gmlqpymgqpmgbvnp
lbkmbdbsymkbapntm rcpepu,mlqpympcpetm reypemuskqmlbkmfnb pumpjb gnt
esdqg,mbyumr  .fbgsrymbyumpbkpmlpepmdpypebnntmepkgrepu,mPxxbmkbsu,

“Gqpmbeescbnmramgqskmfsbyraregpmskmup skscpmlsgqmxpwmSmlbygpumgrmoyrl
bmnsggnpmxrep,mbyumgqskmgpnnkmxpmh.sgpmpyr.dqwmUpfpyum.frymsg,mlpmkqbnn
krrymqpbemgqbgmsgmskmbmfepkpygmaerxmXewmbyumXekwmUsjryw”

“ByumsamgqpmUsjrykmkqr.numbvkrn.gpntmupytmbnnmoyrlnpudpmramsgmlpmx.kg
 ry n.upmsgmgrm rxpmaerxmgqpm bxfvpnnkw”

“Yr,mSmbxmk.epmsgmskmyrgmaerxmgqpm bxfvpnnkwmXskkmAbseabjmoyrlkmsgmsk
yrgmaerxmgqpm bxfvpnnk,mremgqptmlr.numqbcpmvppymd.pkkpumbgmasekgwmKqp
lr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymf.iinpu,mqbumkqpmubepumasjmrymgqpxwmSmxbtmyrgmqbcp
 rycsy pumtr.mfpeqbfk,mv.gmSmbxmfpeap gntm rycsy pumxtkpnamgqbgmXew
Usjrymskmbmfesy sfbnmsymgqpmv.ksypkkw”

“Syuppumtr.msyz.epmxpmsamtr.mk.ffrkpmxpm.y rycsy puwmTr.emepbkrysydk
 beetmxtmz.udxpygmbnrydmlsgqmgqpxmpygsepntwmBgmasekg,mlqsnpmSmk.ffrkpu
tr.mkbgskaspumgqbgm rnrypnm bxfvpnnmlbkmgqpmdscpe,mSmkblmsgmryntmbk
fbgpeybnmosyuypkk,mbyumgqr.dqgmsgmgqpmxrkgmybg.ebnmgqsydmsymgqpmlrenuw
V.gmlqpymtr.mxpygsrypumXekwmUsjry,mSmapngmqrlmx. qmxrepmfervbvnpmgqbgmsg
kqr.numvpmgqpmgesv.gpmramlbexmapxbnpmaespyukqsfwmByumyrlmSm bymkppmsgmsy
yrmrgqpemnsdqgmgqbymbkmbymraapesydmramnrcpw”

Gqpepmlbkmyrmr  bksrymgrmfepkkmgqpmxbggpemabegqpewmGqpm rycs gsrymkppxpu
epbn;mqpmnrropumbkmsamqpmapngmsgwmKqpmkbsumyrmxrep,mrgqpemk.vzp gk
grromgqpsemg.ey;mbyumgqpmepkgmramgqpmusyypemfbkkpumblbt;mgqpmupkkpeg
k.  ppupu,mgqpm qsnuepym bxpmsy,mbyumlpepmgbnopumgrmbyumbuxsepumbxsumgqp
.k.bnmebgpmram rycpekbgsry;mbmaplm npcpemgqsydkmkbsu,mbmaplmurlyesdqg
ksnnt,mv.gmvtmx. qmgqpmnbedpemferfregsrymypsgqpemgqpmrypmyremgqp
rgqpe--yrgqsydmlrekpmgqbympcpetubtmepxbeok,mu.nnmepfpgsgsryk,mrnumyplk,
byumqpbctmzropkw

Gqpmnbuspkmqbumyrgmvppymnrydmsymgqpmueblsyd-errx,mvparepmgqpmrgqpe
nbuspk,msymgqpsemusaapepygmuscsksryk,mbeescpuwmPxxbmlbg qpumgqpmpygepp
ramqpemrlymfbegs .nbemnsggnpmaespyu;mbyumsamkqpm r.numyrgmpj.ngmsymqpe
usdysgtmbyumdeb p,mkqpm r.numyrgmryntmnrcpmgqpmvnrrxsydmklppgypkkmbyu
gqpmbegnpkkmxbyype,mv.gm r.numxrkgmqpbegsntmepzrs pmsymgqbgmnsdqg,
 qppea.n,m.ykpygsxpygbnmuskfrksgsrymlqs qmbnnrlpumqpemkrmxbyt
bnnpcsbgsrykmramfnpbk.ep,msymgqpmxsukgmramgqpmfbydkmramuskbffrsygpu
baap gsrywmGqpepmkqpmkbg--byumlqrmlr.numqbcpmd.pkkpumqrlmxbytmgpbekmkqp
qbumvppymnbgpntmkqpuusyd?mGrmvpmsym rxfbyt,mys pntmuepkkpumqpekpnambyu
kppsydmrgqpekmys pntmuepkkpu,mgrmksgmbyumkxsnpmbyumnrromfepggt,mbyumkbt
yrgqsyd,mlbkmpyr.dqmaremgqpmqbffsypkkmramgqpmfepkpygmqr.ewmZbypmAbseabj
usumnrrombyumxrcpmk.fpesre;mv.gmPxxbmk.kfp gpumkqpmxsdqgmqbcpmvppy
dnbumgrm qbydpmappnsydkmlsgqmQbeespg,mcpetmdnbumgrmqbcpmf.e qbkpumgqp
xregsas bgsrymramqbcsydmnrcpu--tpk,mramqbcsydmnrcpumpcpymXewmPngrymsy
cbsy--vtmgqpmk.eepyupemrambnnmgqpmubydper.kmfnpbk.epmramoyrlsydmqpekpna
vpnrcpumvtmgqpmq.kvbyumramqpemaespyuw

Symkrmnbedpmbmfbegtmsgmlbkmyrgmyp pkkbetmgqbgmPxxbmkqr.numbfferb qmqpew
Kqpmusumyrgmlskqmgrmkfpbomramgqpmfsbyraregp,mkqpmapngmgrrmx. qmsymgqp
kp epgmqpekpna,mgrmgqsyomgqpmbffpbeby pmram .esrksgtmremsygpepkgmabse,
byumgqpeparepmf.efrkpntmopfgmbgmbmuskgby p;mv.gmvtmgqpmrgqpek,mgqp
k.vzp gmlbkmbnxrkgmsxxpusbgpntmsygeru. pu,mbyumkqpmkblmgqpmvn.kqmra
 ryk sr.kypkkmlsgqmlqs qm rydebg.nbgsrykmlpepmep pscpu,mgqpmvn.kq
ramd.sngmlqs qmb  rxfbyspumgqpmybxpmram“xtmpj pnnpygmaespyum rnrypn
 bxfvpnnw”

XekwmLpkgry,mosyu-qpbegpumbyumx.ks bn,mlbkmfbegs .nbentmsygpepkgpu
vtmgqpm se .xkgby p,mbyumPxxbm r.numyrgmqpnfmvpsydmbx.kpumbgmqpe
fpekpcpeby pmsymulpnnsydmrymgqpmk.vzp g;mbyumqbcsydmkrmx. qmgrmbkombyu
grmkbtmbkmgrmgryp,mgr. q,mbyumfpubn,mgrgbnntm.yk.kfs sr.kmramgqbgmlskq
ramkbtsydmbkmnsggnpmbvr.gmsgmbkmfrkksvnp,mlqs qmkqpmfnbsyntmepbumsymgqp
absemqpersyp'km r.ygpyby pw

Gqptmlpepmkrrymzrsypumvtmkrxpmramgqpmdpygnpxpy;mbyumgqpmcpetmasekg
ramgqpmpbentmlbkmAebyom q.e qsnnwmSymqpmlbnopu,mgqpmasekgmbyumgqp
qbyukrxpkg;mbyumbagpemfbtsydmqskm rxfnsxpygkmpymfbkkbygmgrmXskkmVbgpk
byumqpemysp p,mxbupmqskmlbtmusep gntmgrmgqpmrffrksgpmksupmramgqpm se np,
lqpepmkbgmXskkmLrruqr.kp;mbyumgsnnmqpm r.numasyumbmkpbgmvtmqpe,mlr.nu
yrgmksgmbgmbnnwmPxxbmuscsypumlqbgmpcpetmvrutmfepkpygmx.kgmvpmgqsyosydw
Kqpmlbkmqskmrvzp g,mbyumpcpetmvrutmx.kgmfpe pscpmsgwmKqpmsygeru. pumqsx
grmqpemaespyu,mXskkmKxsgq,mbyu,mbgm rycpyspygmxrxpygkmbagpelbeuk,mqpbeu
lqbgmpb qmgqr.dqgmramgqpmrgqpewm“Qpmqbumypcpemkppymkrmnrcpntmbmab p,mbyu
lbkmupnsdqgpumlsgqmqpemybscpgpw”mByumkqp,m“Ryntmgrmvpmk.epmsgmlbkmfbtsyd
qsxmgrrmdepbgmbm rxfnsxpyg,mv.gmkqpmusumgqsyomgqpepmlpepmkrxpmnrrokmb
nsggnpmnsopmXewmPngryw”mPxxbmepkgebsypumqpemsyusdybgsry,mbyumryntmg.eypu
aerxmqpemsymksnpy pw

Kxsnpkmramsygpnnsdpy pmfbkkpumvpglppymqpembyumgqpmdpygnpxbymrymasekg
dnby sydmgrlbeukmXskkmAbseabj;mv.gmsgmlbkmxrkgmfe.upygmgrmbcrsumkfpp qw
Qpmgrnumqpemgqbgmqpmqbumvppymsxfbgspygmgrmnpbcpmgqpmusysyd-errx--qbgpu
ksggsydmnryd--lbkmbnlbtkmgqpmasekgmgrmxrcpmlqpymqpm r.nu--gqbgmqsk
abgqpe,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mXewm rj,mbyumXewm rnp,mlpepmnpagmcpetmv.ktmrcpe
fbeskqmv.ksypkk--gqbgmbkmnrydmbkmqpmqbumkgbsu,mqrlpcpe,msgmqbumvppy
fnpbkbygmpyr.dq,mbkmqpmqbumar.yumgqpxmsymdpypebnmbmkpgmramdpygnpxbynsop,
kpyksvnpmxpy;mbyumkfropmkrmqbyukrxpntmramQsdqv.etmbngrdpgqpe--gqr.dqgmsg
krmbv.yubygmsymbdeppbvnpmabxsnspk--gqbgmPxxbmvpdbymgrmappnmkqpmqbumvppy
.kpumgrmupkfskpmgqpmfnb pmebgqpemgrrmx. qwmKqpmh.pkgsrypumqsxmbkmgrmgqp
kr spgtmsymTreokqsep--gqpmpjgpygmramgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumbvr.gmPyk rxvp,
byumgqpmkreg;mbyum r.numxbopmr.gmaerxmqskmbyklpekmgqbg,mbkmabembk
Pyk rxvpmlbkm ry peypu,mgqpepmlbkmcpetmnsggnpmdrsydmry,mgqbgmgqpse
csksgsydkmlpepmbxrydmbmebydpmramdepbgmabxsnspk,myrypmcpetmypbe;mbyu
gqbgmpcpymlqpymubtkmlpepmasjpu,mbyumsycsgbgsrykmb  pfgpu,msgmlbkmbympcpy
 qby pmgqbgmXekwm q.e qsnnmlpepmyrgmsymqpbngqmbyumkfsesgkmaremdrsyd;
gqbgmgqptmxbupmbmfrsygmramcsksgsydmyrmaepkqmfpekry;mbyumgqbg,mgqr.dq
qpmqbumqskmkpfbebgpmpydbdpxpygk,msgmlbkmyrgmlsgqr.gmusaas .ngt,mlsgqr.g
 ryksupebvnpmbuuepkkm_bg_m_gsxpk_,mgqbgmqpm r.numdpgmblbt,mremsygeru. p
bymb h.bsygby pmarembmysdqgw

KqpmkblmgqbgmPyk rxvpm r.numyrgmkbgskat,mbyumgqbgmQsdqv.et,mgbopymbg
sgkmvpkg,mxsdqgmepbkrybvntmfnpbkpmbmtr.ydmxbymlqrmqbumxrepmepgsepxpygmbg
qrxpmgqbymqpmnsopuwmQskmsxfregby pmbgmPyk rxvpmlbkmcpetmpcsupygwmQpmusu
yrgmvrbkg,mv.gmsgmybg.ebnntmvpgebtpumsgkpna,mgqbgmqpmqbumfpek.bupumqsk
b.ygmlqpepmqskm.y npm r.numurmyrgqsyd,mbyumrymqpemnb.dqsydmbyumyrgs syd
sg,mqpmrlypumgqbgmqpmvpnspcpum(pj pfgsydmrypmremglrmfrsygk)mqpm r.nu
_lsgq_m_gsxp_mfpek.bupmqpemgrmbytmgqsydwmRypmramgqrkpmfrsygkmrymlqs q
qskmsyan.py pmabsnpu,mqpmgqpymxpygsrypuwmQpmqbumlbygpumcpetmx. qmgr
drmbverbu--qbumvppymcpetmpbdpemsyuppumgrmvpmbnnrlpumgrmgebcpn--v.gmkqp
lr.numyrgmqpbemramsgwmGqskmqbumqbffpypumgqpmtpbemvparepwm_Yrl_,mqpmkbsu,
qpmlbkmvpdsyysydmgrmqbcpmyrmnrydpemgqpmkbxpmlskqw

Gqpm.yfpek.bubvnpmfrsyg,mlqs qmqpmusumyrgmxpygsry,mPxxbmd.pkkpumgrmvp
drrumvpqbcsr.emgrmqskmabgqpew

“Smqbcpmxbupmbmxrkgmlepg qpumusk rcpet,”mkbsumqp,mbagpembmkqregmfb.kpw--
“Smqbcpmvppymqpepmbmlppomgr-xreerl--qbnamxtmgsxpwmSmypcpemoyplmubtkmant
krmabkgwmBmlppomgr-xreerl!--ByumSmqbcpmqbeuntmvpd.ymgrmpyzrtmxtkpnaw
V.gmz.kgmdrgmb h.bsygpumlsgqmXekwmLpkgry,mbyumrgqpek!--Smqbgpmgqp
ep rnnp gsryw”

“Fpeqbfkmtr.mxbtmyrlmvpdsymgrmepdepgmgqbgmtr.mkfpygmrypmlqrnpmubt,mr.g
ramkrmapl,msymqbcsydmtr.emqbsem .gw”

“Yr,”mkbsumqp,mkxsnsyd,m“gqbgmskmyrmk.vzp gmramepdepgmbgmbnnwmSmqbcp
yrmfnpbk.epmsymkppsydmxtmaespyuk,m.ynpkkmSm bymvpnspcpmxtkpnamasgmgrmvp
kppyw”

Gqpmepkgmramgqpmdpygnpxpymvpsydmyrlmsymgqpmerrx,mPxxbmar.yumqpekpna
rvnsdpumgrmg.eymaerxmqsxmarembmaplmxsy.gpk,mbyumnskgpymgrmXewm rnpwmLqpy
Xewm rnpmqbumxrcpumblbt,mbyumqpembggpygsrym r.numvpmepkgrepumbkmvparep,
kqpmkblmAebyom q.e qsnnmnrrosydmsygpygntmb erkkmgqpmerrxmbgmXskk
Abseabj,mlqrmlbkmksggsydmpjb gntmrffrksgpw

“Lqbgmskmgqpmxbggpe?”mkbsumkqpw

Qpmkgbegpuwm“Gqbyomtr.maremer.ksydmxp,”mqpmepfnspuwm“SmvpnspcpmSmqbcp
vppymcpetme.up;mv.gmepbnntmXskkmAbseabjmqbkmurypmqpemqbsemsymkrmruumb
lbt--krmcpetmruumbmlbt--gqbgmSm byyrgmoppfmxtmptpkmaerxmqpewmSmypcpemkbl
bytmgqsydmkrmr.gepp!--Gqrkpm .enk!--Gqskmx.kgmvpmbmaby tmramqpemrlywmS
kppmyrvrutmpnkpmnrrosydmnsopmqpe!--Smx.kgmdrmbyumbkomqpemlqpgqpemsg
skmbymSeskqmabkqsrywmKqbnnmS?--Tpk,mSmlsnn--Smup nbepmSmlsnn--byumtr.
kqbnnmkppmqrlmkqpmgbopkmsg;--lqpgqpemkqpm rnr.ekw”

Qpmlbkmdrypmsxxpusbgpnt;mbyumPxxbmkrrymkblmqsxmkgbyusydmvparepmXskk
Abseabj,mbyumgbnosydmgrmqpe;mv.gmbkmgrmsgkmpaap gmrymgqpmtr.ydmnbut,
bkmqpmqbumsxfercsupygntmfnb pumqsxkpnampjb gntmvpglppymgqpx,mpjb gntmsy
aerygmramXskkmAbseabj,mkqpm r.numbvkrn.gpntmuskgsyd.skqmyrgqsydw

Vparepmqpm r.numepg.eymgrmqskm qbse,msgmlbkmgbopymvtmXekwmLpkgryw

“Gqskmskmgqpmn.j.etmrambmnbedpmfbegt,”mkbsumkqp:--“rypm bymdpgmypbe
pcpetmvrut,mbyumkbtmpcpetmgqsydwmXtmupbemPxxb,mSmbxmnrydsydmgrmgbno
grmtr.wmSmqbcpmvppymxbosydmusk rcpespkmbyumarexsydmfnbyk,mz.kgmnsop
tr.ekpna,mbyumSmx.kgmgpnnmgqpxmlqsnpmgqpmsupbmskmaepkqwmUrmtr.moyrlmqrl
XskkmVbgpkmbyumqpemysp pm bxpmqpep?”

“Qrl?--Gqptmlpepmsycsgpu,mlpepmyrgmgqpt?”

“Rq!mtpk--v.gmqrlmgqptmlpepm rycptpumqsgqpe?--gqpmxbyypemramgqpse
 rxsyd?”

“Gqptmlbnopu,mSm ry n.upwmQrlmpnkpm r.numgqptm rxp?”

“Cpetmge.pw--Lpnn,mbmnsggnpmlqsnpmbdrmsgmr  .eepumgrmxpmqrlmcpetmkbu
sgmlr.numvpmgrmqbcpmZbypmAbseabjmlbnosydmqrxpmbdbsy,mnbgpmbgmysdqg,mbyu
 rnumbkmgqpmysdqgkmbepmyrlwmByumbkmSmnrropumbgmqpe,mgqr.dqmSmypcpemkbl
qpembffpbemgrmxrepmbucbygbdp,msgmkge. omxpmgqbgmkqpmlbkmqpbgpu,mbyu
lr.numgqpeparepmvpmfbegs .nbentmnsbvnpmgrmgbopm rnuwmFrremdsen!mSm r.nu
yrgmvpbemgqpmsupbmramsg;mkr,mbkmkrrymbkmXewmLpkgrym bxpmsygrmgqpmerrx,
byumSm r.numdpgmbgmqsx,mSmkfropmgrmqsxmbvr.gmgqpm beesbdpwmTr.mxbtmd.pkk
qrlmepbusntmqpm bxpmsygrmxtmlskqpk;mbyumqbcsydmqskmbffervbgsry,mSmxbup
xtmlbtmusep gntmgrmXskkmVbgpk,mgrmbkk.epmqpemgqbgmgqpm beesbdpmlr.numvp
bgmqpemkpecs pmvparepmsgmgrrom.kmqrxp;maremSmgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numvpmxbosyd
qpem rxaregbvnpmbgmry pwmDrrumkr.n!mkqpmlbkmbkmdebgpa.nmbkmfrkksvnp,mtr.
xbtmvpmk.epwm'Yrvrutmlbkmpcpemkrmareg.ybgpmbkmqpekpna!'--v.gmlsgqmxbyt,
xbytmgqbyok--'gqpepmlbkmyrmr  bksrymgrmger.vnpm.k,maremXewmOysdqgnpt'k
 beesbdpmqbumver.dqg,mbyumlbkmgrmgbopmgqpxmqrxpmbdbsyw'mSmlbkmh.sgp
k.efesipu;--cpetmdnbu,mSmbxmk.ep;mv.gmepbnntmh.sgpmk.efesipuwmK. qmb
cpetmosyumbggpygsry--byumkrmgqr.dqga.nmbymbggpygsry!--gqpmkregmramgqsyd
gqbgmkrmaplmxpymlr.numgqsyomrawmByu,msymkqreg,maerxmoyrlsydmqsk
.k.bnmlbtk,mSmbxmcpetmx. qmsy nsypumgrmgqsyomgqbgmsgmlbkmaremgqpse
b  rxxrubgsrymgqpm beesbdpmlbkm.kpumbgmbnnwmSmurmk.kfp gmqpmlr.numyrg
qbcpmqbumbmfbsemramqrekpkmaremqsxkpna,mbyumgqbgmsgmlbkmryntmbkmbympj .kp
arembkkskgsydmgqpxw”

“Cpetmnsopnt,”mkbsumPxxb--“yrgqsydmxrepmnsopntwmSmoyrlmyrmxbymxrep
nsopntmgqbymXewmOysdqgnptmgrmurmgqpmkregmramgqsyd--grmurmbytmgqsyd
epbnntmdrru-ybg.epu,m.kpa.n,m ryksupebgp,mremvpypcrnpygwmQpmskmyrgmb
dbnnbygmxby,mv.gmqpmskmbmcpetmq.xbypmryp;mbyumgqsk,m ryksupesydmZbyp
Abseabj'kmsnn-qpbngq,mlr.numbffpbembm bkpmramq.xbysgtmgrmqsx;--byumare
bymb gmram.yrkgpygbgsr.kmosyuypkk,mgqpepmskmyrvrutmlqrxmSmlr.numasjmry
xrepmgqbymrymXewmOysdqgnptwmSmoyrlmqpmqbumqrekpkmgr-ubt--aremlpmbeescpu
grdpgqpe;mbyumSmnb.dqpumbgmqsxmbvr.gmsg,mv.gmqpmkbsumyrgmbmlreumgqbg
 r.numvpgebtw”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,mkxsnsyd,m“tr.mdscpmqsxm epusgmaremxrepmksxfnp,
usksygpepkgpumvpypcrnpy pmsymgqskmsykgby pmgqbymSmur;maremlqsnpmXskk
Vbgpkmlbkmkfpbosyd,mbmk.kfs srymubegpumsygrmxtmqpbu,mbyumSmqbcpmypcpe
vppymbvnpmgrmdpgmsgmr.gmbdbsywmGqpmxrepmSmgqsyomramsg,mgqpmxrepmfervbvnp
sgmbffpbekwmSymkqreg,mSmqbcpmxbupmbmxbg qmvpglppymXewmOysdqgnptmbyumZbyp
AbseabjwmKppmgqpm rykph.py pmramoppfsydmtr.m rxfbyt!--Lqbgmurmtr.mkbtmgr
sg?”

“XewmOysdqgnptmbyumZbypmAbseabj!”mpj nbsxpumPxxbwm“UpbemXekwmLpkgry,mqrl
 r.numtr.mgqsyomramk. qmbmgqsyd?--XewmOysdqgnpt!--XewmOysdqgnptmx.kgmyrg
xbeet!--Tr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmnsggnpmQpyetm .gmr.gmaerxmUrylpnn?--Rq!myr,
yr,mQpyetmx.kgmqbcpmUrylpnnwmSm byyrgmbgmbnnm rykpygmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt'k
xbeetsyd;mbyumSmbxmk.epmsgmskmyrgmbgmbnnmnsopntwmSmbxmbxbipumgqbgmtr.
kqr.numgqsyomramk. qmbmgqsydw”

“XtmupbemPxxb,mSmqbcpmgrnumtr.mlqbgmnpumxpmgrmgqsyomramsgwmSmurmyrgmlbyg
gqpmxbg q--Smurmyrgmlbygmgrmsyz.epmupbemnsggnpmQpyet--v.gmgqpmsupbmqbk
vppymdscpymxpmvtm se .xkgby pk;mbyumsamXewmOysdqgnptmepbnntmlskqpumgr
xbeet,mtr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmqsxmepaebsymrymQpyet'kmb  r.yg,mbmvrtmramksj
tpbekmrnu,mlqrmoyrlkmyrgqsydmramgqpmxbggpe?”

“Tpk,mSmlr.nuwmSm r.numyrgmvpbemgrmqbcpmQpyetmk.ffnbygpuw--Xew
Oysdqgnptmxbeet!--Yr,mSmqbcpmypcpemqbumk. qmbymsupb,mbyumSm byyrgmburfg
sgmyrlwmByumZbypmAbseabj,mgrr,mrambnnmlrxpy!”

“Ybt,mkqpmqbkmbnlbtkmvppymbmasekgmabcr.esgpmlsgqmqsx,mbkmtr.mcpetmlpnn
oyrlw”

“V.gmgqpmsxfe.upy pmramk. qmbmxbg q!”

“Smbxmyrgmkfpbosydmramsgkmfe.upy p;mxpepntmsgkmfervbvsnsgtw”

“Smkppmyrmfervbvsnsgtmsymsg,m.ynpkkmtr.mqbcpmbytmvpggpemar.yubgsrymgqby
lqbgmtr.mxpygsrywmQskmdrru-ybg.ep,mqskmq.xbysgt,mbkmSmgpnnmtr.,mlr.nu
vpmh.sgpmpyr.dqmgrmb  r.ygmaremgqpmqrekpkwmQpmqbkmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremgqp
Vbgpkpk,mtr.moyrl,msyupfpyupygmramZbypmAbseabj--byumskmbnlbtkmdnbumgr
kqplmgqpxmbggpygsrywmXtmupbemXekwmLpkgry,murmyrgmgbopmgrmxbg q-xbosydw
Tr.murmsgmcpetmsnnwmZbypmAbseabjmxskgepkkmramgqpmBvvpt!--Rq!myr,
yr;--pcpetmappnsydmepcrngkwmAremqskmrlymkbop,mSmlr.numyrgmqbcpmqsxmurmkr
xbumbmgqsydw”

“Sxfe.upyg,msamtr.mfnpbkp--v.gmyrgmxbuwmPj pfgsydmsyph.bnsgtmramareg.yp,
byumfpeqbfkmbmnsggnpmuskfbesgtmrambdp,mSm bymkppmyrgqsydm.yk.sgbvnpw”

“V.gmXewmOysdqgnptmurpkmyrgmlbygmgrmxbeetwmSmbxmk.epmqpmqbkmyrgmgqp
npbkgmsupbmramsgwmUrmyrgmf.gmsgmsygrmqskmqpbuwmLqtmkqr.numqpmxbeet?--Qp
skmbkmqbfftmbkmfrkksvnpmvtmqsxkpna;mlsgqmqskmabex,mbyumqskmkqppf,mbyu
qskmnsvebet,mbyumbnnmgqpmfbeskqmgrmxbybdp;mbyumqpmskmpjgepxpntmaryumra
qskmvergqpe'km qsnuepywmQpmqbkmyrmr  bksrymgrmxbeet,mpsgqpemgrmasnnm.f
qskmgsxpmremqskmqpbegw”

“XtmupbemPxxb,mbkmnrydmbkmqpmgqsyokmkr,msgmskmkr;mv.gmsamqpmepbnntmnrcpk
ZbypmAbseabj--”

“Yrykpykp!mQpmurpkmyrgm bepmbvr.gmZbypmAbseabjwmSymgqpmlbtmramnrcp,mSmbx
k.epmqpmurpkmyrgwmQpmlr.numurmbytmdrrumgrmqpe,mremqpemabxsnt;mv.g--”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,mnb.dqsyd,m“fpeqbfkmgqpmdepbgpkgmdrrumqpm r.nu
urmgqpx,mlr.numvpmgrmdscpmZbypmk. qmbmepkfp gbvnpmqrxpw”

“Samsgmlr.numvpmdrrumgrmqpe,mSmbxmk.epmsgmlr.numvpmpcsnmgrmqsxkpna;mb
cpetmkqbxpa.nmbyumupdebusydm ryypjsrywmQrlmlr.numqpmvpbemgrmqbcpmXskk
Vbgpkmvpnrydsydmgrmqsx?--Grmqbcpmqpemqb.ygsydmgqpmBvvpt,mbyumgqbyosyd
qsxmbnnmubtmnrydmaremqskmdepbgmosyuypkkmsymxbeetsydmZbyp?--'Krmcpet
osyumbyumrvnsdsyd!--V.gmqpmbnlbtkmqbumvppymk. qmbmcpetmosyumypsdqvr.e!'
Byumgqpymantmraa,mgqer.dqmqbnambmkpygpy p,mgrmqpemxrgqpe'kmrnu
fpggs rbgwm'Yrgmgqbgmsgmlbkmk. qmbmcpetmrnumfpggs rbgmpsgqpe--aremkgsnn
sgmlr.numnbkgmbmdepbgmlqsnp--byu,msyuppu,mkqpmx.kgmgqbyoa.nntmkbtmgqbg
gqpsemfpggs rbgkmlpepmbnnmcpetmkgerydw'”

“Aremkqbxp,mPxxb!mUrmyrgmxsxs mqpewmTr.muscpegmxpmbdbsykgmxtm ryk spy pw
Byu,m.frymxtmlreu,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomXewmOysdqgnptmlr.numvpmx. qmuskg.evpu
vtmXskkmVbgpkwmNsggnpmgqsydkmurmyrgmseesgbgpmqsxwmKqpmxsdqgmgbnomry;mbyu
samqpmlbygpumgrmkbtmbytmgqsydmqsxkpna,mqpmlr.numryntmgbnomnr.upe,mbyu
uerlymqpemcrs pwmV.gmgqpmh.pkgsrymskmyrg,mlqpgqpemsgmlr.numvpmbmvbu
 ryypjsrymaremqsx,mv.gmlqpgqpemqpmlskqpkmsg;mbyumSmgqsyomqpmurpkwmSmqbcp
qpbeumqsxmkfpbo,mbyumkrmx.kgmtr.,mkrmcpetmqsdqntmramZbypmAbseabj!mGqp
sygpepkgmqpmgbopkmsymqpe--qskmbyjspgtmbvr.gmqpemqpbngq--qskm ry peymgqbg
kqpmkqr.numqbcpmyrmqbffspemferkfp g!mSmqbcpmqpbeumqsxmpjfepkkmqsxkpna
krmlbexntmrymgqrkpmfrsygk!--K. qmbymbuxsepemramqpemfpearexby pmrymgqp
fsbyraregp,mbyumramqpemcrs p!mSmqbcpmqpbeumqsxmkbtmgqbgmqpm r.numnskgpy
grmqpemarempcpewmRq!mbyumSmqbumbnxrkgmaredrggpymrypmsupbmgqbgmr  .eepu
grmxp--gqskmfsbyraregpmgqbgmqbkmvppymkpygmqpepmvtmkrxpvrut--gqr.dq
lpmqbcpmbnnmvppymkrmlpnnmkbgskaspumgrm ryksupemsgmbmfepkpygmaerxmgqp
 bxfvpnnk,mxbtmsgmyrgmvpmaerxmXewmOysdqgnpt?mSm byyrgmqpnfmk.kfp gsyd
qsxwmSmgqsyomqpmskmz.kgmgqpmfpekrymgrmurmsg,mpcpymlsgqr.gmvpsydmsy
nrcpw”

“Gqpymsgm bymvpmyrmbed.xpygmgrmfercpmgqbgmqpmskmsymnrcpwmV.gmSmurmyrg
gqsyomsgmskmbgmbnnmbmnsopntmgqsydmaremqsxmgrmurwmXewmOysdqgnptmurpk
yrgqsydmxtkgpesr.kntw”

“Smqbcpmqpbeumqsxmnbxpygsydmqpemqbcsydmyrmsykge.xpygmepfpbgpunt;mragpype
gqbymSmkqr.numk.ffrkpmk. qmbm se .xkgby pmlr.nu,msymgqpm rxxrym r.ekpmra
gqsydk,mr  .emgrmqsxw”

“Cpetmlpnn;mbyumsamqpmqbumsygpyupumgrmdscpmqpemryp,mqpmlr.numqbcpmgrnu
qpemkrw”

“Gqpepmxsdqgmvpmk e.fnpkmramupns b t,mxtmupbemPxxbwmSmqbcpmbmcpetmkgeryd
yrgsrymgqbgmsgm rxpkmaerxmqsxwmSmbxmk.epmqpmlbkmfbegs .nbentmksnpygmlqpy
Xekwm rnpmgrnum.kmramsgmbgmusyypew”

“Tr.mgbopm.fmbymsupb,mXekwmLpkgry,mbyume.ymblbtmlsgqmsg;mbkmtr.mqbcp
xbytmbmgsxpmepferb qpumxpmlsgqmursydwmSmkppmyrmksdymrambggb qxpyg--S
vpnspcpmyrgqsydmramgqpmfsbyraregp--byumferramryntmkqbnnm rycsy pmxpmgqbg
XewmOysdqgnptmqbkmbytmgqr.dqgmramxbeetsydmZbypmAbseabjw”

Gqptm rxvbgpumgqpmfrsygmkrxpmgsxpmnrydpemsymgqpmkbxpmlbt;mPxxbmebgqpe
dbsysydmder.yumrcpemgqpmxsyumramqpemaespyu;maremXekwmLpkgrymlbkmgqpmxrkg
.kpumramgqpmglrmgrmtspnu;mgsnnmbmnsggnpmv.kgnpmsymgqpmerrxmkqplpumgqpx
gqbgmgpbmlbkmrcpe,mbyumgqpmsykge.xpygmsymfepfbebgsry;--byumbgmgqpmkbxp
xrxpygmXewm rnpmbfferb qsydmgrmpygepbgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlr.numurmgqpxmgqp
qryr.emramgetsydmsgwmAebyom q.e qsnn,mramlqrx,msymgqpmpbdpeypkkmramqpe
 rycpekbgsrymlsgqmXekwmLpkgry,mkqpmqbumvppymkppsydmyrgqsyd,mpj pfgmgqbg
qpmqbumar.yumbmkpbgmvtmXskkmAbseabj,marnnrlpumXewm rnp,mgrmbuumqskmcpet
fepkksydmpygepbgspk;mbyumbk,msympcpetmepkfp g,msgmk.sgpumPxxbmvpkgmgr
npbu,mkqpmdbcpmbmcpetmferfpem rxfnsby pw

Kqpmoyplmgqpmnsxsgbgsrykmramqpemrlymfrlpekmgrrmlpnnmgrmbggpxfgmxrepmgqby
kqpm r.numfpearexmlsgqm epusg;mkqpmlbygpumypsgqpemgbkgpmyremkfsesgmsy
gqpmnsggnpmgqsydkmlqs qmbepmdpypebnntmb  pfgbvnp,mbyum r.numb  rxfbyt
qpemrlymcrs pmlpnnwmRypmb  rxfbysxpygmgrmqpemkrydmgrromqpembdeppbvntmvt
k.efesip--bmkp ryu,mknsdqgntmv.gm reep gntmgbopymvtmAebyom q.e qsnnwmQpe
fbeurymlbkmu.ntmvpddpumbgmgqpm nrkpmramgqpmkryd,mbyumpcpetmgqsydm.k.bn
arnnrlpuwmQpmlbkmb  .kpumramqbcsydmbmupnsdqga.nmcrs p,mbyumbmfpeap g
oyrlnpudpmramx.ks ;mlqs qmlbkmferfpentmupyspu;mbyumgqbgmqpmoyplmyrgqsyd
ramgqpmxbggpe,mbyumqbumyrmcrs pmbgmbnn,mer.yuntmbkkpegpuwmGqptmkbyd
grdpgqpemry pmxrep;mbyumPxxbmlr.numgqpymepksdymqpemfnb pmgrmXskk
Abseabj,mlqrkpmfpearexby p,mvrgqmcr bnmbyumsykge.xpygbn,mkqpmypcpem r.nu
bggpxfgmgrm ry pbnmaerxmqpekpna,mlbkmsyasysgpntmk.fpesremgrmqpemrlyw

Lsgqmxsjpumappnsydk,mkqpmkpbgpumqpekpnambgmbmnsggnpmuskgby pmaerxmgqp
y.xvpekmer.yumgqpmsykge.xpyg,mgrmnskgpywmAebyom q.e qsnnmkbydmbdbsyw
Gqptmqbumk.ydmgrdpgqpemry pmremgls p,msgmbffpbepu,mbgmLptxr.gqwmV.gmgqp
ksdqgmramXewmOysdqgnptmbxrydmgqpmxrkgmbggpygscp,mkrrymueplmblbtmqbna
Pxxb'kmxsyu;mbyumkqpmapnnmsygrmbmgebsymramgqsyosydmrymgqpmk.vzp gmra
XekwmLpkgry'kmk.kfs sryk,mgrmlqs qmgqpmklppgmkr.yukmramgqpm.ysgpumcrs pk
dbcpmryntmxrxpygbetmsygpee.fgsrykwmQpemrvzp gsrykmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt'k
xbeetsydmusumyrgmsymgqpmnpbkgmk.vksupwmKqpm r.numkppmyrgqsydmv.gmpcsn
symsgwmSgmlr.numvpmbmdepbgmuskbffrsygxpygmgrmXewmZrqymOysdqgnpt;
 rykph.pygntmgrmSkbvpnnbwmBmepbnmsyz.etmgrmgqpm qsnuepy--bmxrkg
xregsatsydm qbydp,mbyumxbgpesbnmnrkkmgrmgqpxmbnn;--bmcpetmdepbg
upu. gsrymaerxmqpemabgqpe'kmubsntm rxareg--byu,mbkmgrmqpekpna,mkqpm r.nu
yrgmbgmbnnmpyu.epmgqpmsupbmramZbypmAbseabjmbgmUrylpnnmBvvptwmBmXekw
Oysdqgnptmaremgqpxmbnnmgrmdscpmlbtmgr!--Yr--XewmOysdqgnptmx.kgmypcpe
xbeetwmNsggnpmQpyetmx.kgmepxbsymgqpmqpsemramUrylpnnw

FepkpygntmXewmOysdqgnptmnrropumvb o,mbyum bxpmbyumkbgmurlymvtmqpewmGqpt
gbnopumbgmasekgmryntmramgqpmfpearexby pwmQskmbuxsebgsrymlbkm pegbsynt
cpetmlbex;mtpgmkqpmgqr.dqg,mv.gmaremXekwmLpkgry,msgmlr.numyrgmqbcp
kge. omqpewmBkmbmkregmramgr. qkgryp,mqrlpcpe,mkqpmvpdbymgrmkfpbomramqsk
osyuypkkmsym rycptsydmgqpmb.ygmbyumysp p;mbyumgqr.dqmqskmbyklpemlbkmsy
gqpmkfsesgmram .ggsydmgqpmxbggpemkqreg,mkqpmvpnspcpumsgmgrmsyus bgpmrynt
qskmusksy nsybgsrymgrmulpnnmrymbytmosyuypkkmramqskmrlyw

“Smragpymappnm ry pey,”mkbsumkqp,m“gqbgmSmubepmyrgmxbopmr.em beesbdp
xrepm.kpa.nmrymk. qmr  bksrykwmSgmskmyrgmgqbgmSmbxmlsgqr.gmgqpmlskq;mv.g
tr.moyrlmqrlmsxfrkksvnpmxtmabgqpemlr.numuppxmsgmgqbgmZbxpkmkqr.numf.g-gr
aremk. qmbmf.efrkpw”

“H.sgpmr.gmramgqpmh.pkgsry,mh.sgpmr.gmramgqpmh.pkgsry,”mqp
epfnspu;--“v.gmtr.mx.kgmragpymlskqmsg,mSmbxmk.epw”mByumqpmkxsnpumlsgq
k. qmkppxsydmfnpbk.epmbgmgqpm rycs gsry,mgqbgmkqpmx.kgmfer ppumbyrgqpe
kgpfw

“Gqskmfepkpygmaerxmgqpm bxfvpnnk,”mkbsumkqp--“gqskmfsbyraregpmskmcpet
osyuntmdscpyw”

“Tpk,”mqpmepfnspu,mbyumlsgqr.gmgqpmkxbnnpkgmbffbepyg
pxvbeebkkxpygw--“V.gmgqptmlr.numqbcpmurypmvpggpemqbumgqptmdscpy
qpemyrgs pmramsgwmK.efesipkmbepmarrnskqmgqsydkwmGqpmfnpbk.epmskmyrg
pyqby pu,mbyumgqpmsy rycpyspy pmskmragpym ryksupebvnpwmSmkqr.numqbcp
pjfp gpumvpggpemz.udxpygmsym rnrypnm bxfvpnnw”

Aerxmgqbgmxrxpyg,mPxxbm r.numqbcpmgbopymqpemrbgqmgqbgmXewmOysdqgnptmqbu
qbumyrm ry peymsymdscsydmgqpmsykge.xpygwmV.gmlqpgqpemqpmlpep
pygsepntmaeppmaerxmfp .nsbembggb qxpyg--lqpgqpemgqpepmlpepmyrmb g.bn
fepapepy p--epxbsypumbmnsggnpmnrydpemur.vga.nwmGrlbeukmgqpmpyumramZbyp'k
kp ryumkryd,mqpemcrs pmdeplmgqs ow

“Gqbgmlsnnmur,”mkbsumqp,mlqpymsgmlbkmasyskqpu,mgqsyosydmbnr.u--“tr.mqbcp
k.ydmh.sgpmpyr.dqmaremrypmpcpysyd--yrlmvpmh.spgw”

Byrgqpemkryd,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmkrrymvpddpumarewm“Rypmxrep;--gqptmlr.numyrg
abgsd.pmXskkmAbseabjmrymbytmb  r.yg,mbyumlr.numryntmbkomaremrypmxrepw”
mByumAebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmqpbeumgrmkbt,m“Smgqsyomtr.m r.numxbybdpmgqsk
lsgqr.gmpaareg;mgqpmasekgmfbegmskmkrmcpetmgesansydwmGqpmkgepydgqmramgqp
krydmabnnkmrymgqpmkp ryuw”

XewmOysdqgnptmdeplmbydetw

“Gqbgmapnnrl,”mkbsumqp,msyusdybygnt,m“gqsyokmramyrgqsydmv.gmkqplsydmraa
qskmrlymcrs pwmGqskmx.kgmyrgmvpw”mByumgr. qsydmXskkmVbgpk,mlqrmbgmgqbg
xrxpygmfbkkpumypbe--“XskkmVbgpk,mbepmtr.mxbu,mgrmnpgmtr.emysp pmksyd
qpekpnamqrbekpmsymgqskmxbyype?mDr,mbyumsygpeapepwmGqptmqbcpmyrmxpe tmry
qpew”

XskkmVbgpk,msymqpemepbnmbyjspgtmaremZbyp,m r.numqbeuntmkgbtmpcpymgr
vpmdebgpa.n,mvparepmkqpmkgpfgmarelbeumbyumf.gmbympyumgrmbnnmabegqpe
ksydsydwmQpepm pbkpumgqpm ry pegmfbegmramgqpmpcpysyd,maremXskkmLrruqr.kp
byumXskkmAbseabjmlpepmgqpmryntmtr.ydmnbutmfpearexpek;mv.gmkrrym(lsgqsy
ascpmxsy.gpk)mgqpmferfrkbnmramuby syd--resdsybgsydmyrvrutmpjb gntmoypl
lqpep--lbkmkrmpaap g.bnntmferxrgpumvtmXewmbyumXekwm rnp,mgqbgmpcpet
gqsydmlbkmebfsuntm npbesydmblbt,mgrmdscpmferfpemkfb pwmXekwmLpkgry,
 bfsgbnmsymqpem r.yget-uby pk,mlbkmkpbgpu,mbyumvpdsyysydmbymseepkskgsvnp
lbngi;mbyumAebyom q.e qsnn,m rxsydm.fmlsgqmxrkgmvp rxsydmdbnnbygetmgr
Pxxb,mqbumkp .epumqpemqbyu,mbyumnpumqpem.fmgrmgqpmgrfw

Lqsnpmlbsgsydmgsnnmgqpmrgqpemtr.ydmfprfnpm r.numfbsemgqpxkpncpkmraa,
Pxxbmar.yumgsxp,msymkfsgpmramgqpm rxfnsxpygkmkqpmlbkmep pscsydmry
qpemcrs pmbyumqpemgbkgp,mgrmnrrombvr.g,mbyumkppmlqbgmvp bxpmramXew
OysdqgnptwmGqskmlr.numvpmbmgesbnwmQpmlbkmyrmuby pemsymdpypebnwmSamqp
lpepmgrmvpmcpetmbnpegmsympydbdsydmZbypmAbseabjmyrl,msgmxsdqgmb.d.e
krxpgqsydwmGqpepmlbkmyrmsxxpusbgpmbffpbeby pwmYr;mqpmlbkmgbnosydmgrmXekw
 rnp--qpmlbkmnrrosydmrym.y ry peypu;mZbypmlbkmbkopumvtmkrxpvrutmpnkp,
byumqpmlbkmkgsnnmgbnosydmgrmXekwm rnpw

PxxbmqbumyrmnrydpembymbnbexmaremQpyet;mqskmsygpepkgmlbkmtpgmkbap;mbyu
kqpmnpumraamgqpmuby pmlsgqmdpy.sypmkfsesgmbyumpyzrtxpygwmYrgmxrepmgqby
ascpm r.fnpm r.numvpmx.kgpepu;mv.gmgqpmebesgtmbyumgqpmk.uupyypkkmra
sgmxbupmsgmcpetmupnsdqga.n,mbyumkqpmar.yumqpekpnamlpnnmxbg qpumsymb
fbegypewmGqptmlpepmbm r.fnpmlregqmnrrosydmbgw

Glrmuby pk,m.yareg.ybgpnt,mlpepmbnnmgqbgm r.numvpmbnnrlpuwmSgmlbk
derlsydmnbgp,mbyumXskkmVbgpkmvp bxpmbyjsr.kmgrmdpgmqrxp,mrymqpemxrgqpe'k
b  r.ygwmBagpemkrxpmbggpxfgk,mgqpeparep,mgrmvpmfpexsggpumgrmvpdsymbdbsy,
gqptmlpepmrvnsdpumgrmgqbyomXekwmLpkgry,mnrromkreerla.n,mbyumqbcpmurypw

“Fpeqbfkmsgmskmbkmlpnn,”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnn,mbkmqpmbggpyupumPxxbmgr
qpem beesbdpwm“Smx.kgmqbcpmbkopumXskkmAbseabj,mbyumqpemnbyd.sumuby syd
lr.numyrgmqbcpmbdeppumlsgqmxp,mbagpemtr.ekw”



 QBFGPEmSJ


Pxxbmusumyrgmepfpygmqpem ryupk pyksrymsymdrsydmgrmgqpm rnpkwmGqpmcsksg
baareupumqpemxbytmfnpbkbygmep rnnp gsrykmgqpmypjgmubt;mbyumbnnmgqbgmkqp
xsdqgmvpmk.ffrkpumgrmqbcpmnrkgmrymgqpmksupmramusdysaspumkp n.ksry,mx.kg
vpmbxfntmepfbsumsymgqpmkfnpyur.emramfrf.nbesgtwmKqpmx.kgmqbcpmupnsdqgpu
gqpm rnpk--lregqtmfprfnp,mlqrmupkpecpumgrmvpmxbupmqbfft!--Byumnpagmb
ybxpmvpqsyumqpemgqbgmlr.numyrgmkrrymuspmblbtw

Fpeap gmqbffsypkk,mpcpymsymxpxret,mskmyrgm rxxry;mbyumgqpepmlpepmglr
frsygkmrymlqs qmkqpmlbkmyrgmh.sgpmpbktwmKqpmur.vgpumlqpgqpemkqpmqbumyrg
gebykdepkkpumgqpmu.gtmramlrxbymvtmlrxby,msymvpgebtsydmqpemk.kfs srykmra
ZbypmAbseabj'kmappnsydkmgrmAebyom q.e qsnnwmSgmlbkmqbeuntmesdqg;mv.gmsg
qbumvppymkrmkgerydmbymsupb,mgqbgmsgmlr.numpk bfpmqpe,mbyumqskmk.vxskksry
grmbnnmgqbgmkqpmgrnu,mlbkmbm rxfnsxpygmgrmqpemfpypgebgsry,mlqs qmxbup
sgmusaas .ngmaremqpemgrmvpmh.sgpm pegbsymgqbgmkqpmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmqpnumqpe
gryd.pw

Gqpmrgqpem se .xkgby pmramepdepgmepnbgpumbnkrmgrmZbypmAbseabj;mbyu
gqpepmkqpmqbumyrmur.vgwmKqpmusum.yapsdypuntmbyum.yph.scr bnntmepdepgmgqp
syapesresgtmramqpemrlymfnbtsydmbyumksydsydwmKqpmusumxrkgmqpbegsnt
despcpmrcpemgqpmsunpypkkmramqpem qsnuqrru--byumkbgmurlymbyumfeb gskpu
csdrer.kntmbymqr.embyumbmqbnaw

Kqpmlbkmgqpymsygpee.fgpumvtmQbeespg'km rxsydmsy;mbyumsamQbeespg'kmfebskp
 r.numqbcpmkbgskaspumqpe,mkqpmxsdqgmkrrymqbcpmvppym rxaregpuw

“Rq!msamSm r.numv.gmfnbtmbkmlpnnmbkmtr.mbyumXskkmAbseabj!”

“Ury'gm nbkkm.kmgrdpgqpe,mQbeespgwmXtmfnbtsydmskmyrmxrepmnsopmqpe'k,
gqbymbmnbxfmskmnsopmk.ykqsypw”

“Rq!mupbe--Smgqsyomtr.mfnbtmgqpmvpkgmramgqpmglrwmSmgqsyomtr.mfnbtmh.sgp
bkmlpnnmbkmkqpmurpkwmSmbxmk.epmSmqbumx. qmebgqpemqpbemtr.wmPcpetmvrut
nbkgmysdqgmkbsumqrlmlpnnmtr.mfnbtpuw”

“Gqrkpmlqrmoyplmbytmgqsydmbvr.gmsg,mx.kgmqbcpmapngmgqpmusaapepy pwmGqp
ge.gqmsk,mQbeespg,mgqbgmxtmfnbtsydmskmz.kgmdrrumpyr.dqmgrmvpmfebskpu,
v.gmZbypmAbseabj'kmskmx. qmvptryumsgw”

“Lpnn,mSmbnlbtkmkqbnnmgqsyomgqbgmtr.mfnbtmh.sgpmbkmlpnnmbkmkqpmurpk,mre
gqbgmsamgqpepmskmbytmusaapepy pmyrvrutmlr.numpcpemasyumsgmr.gwmXewm rnp
kbsumqrlmx. qmgbkgpmtr.mqbu;mbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgbnopumbmdepbgmupbn
bvr.gmtr.emgbkgp,mbyumgqbgmqpmcbn.pumgbkgpmx. qmxrepmgqbympjp .gsryw”

“Bq!mv.gmZbypmAbseabjmqbkmgqpxmvrgq,mQbeespgw”

“Bepmtr.mk.ep?mSmkblmkqpmqbumpjp .gsry,mv.gmSmusumyrgmoyrlmkqpmqbumbyt
gbkgpwmYrvrutmgbnopumbvr.gmsgwmByumSmqbgpmSgbnsbymksydsydw--Gqpepmskmyr
.yupekgbyusydmbmlreumramsgwmVpksupk,msamkqpmurpkmfnbtmkrmcpetmlpnn,mtr.
oyrl,msgmskmyrmxrepmgqbymkqpmskmrvnsdpumgrmur,mvp b.kpmkqpmlsnnmqbcpmgr
gpb qwmGqpm rjpkmlpepmlryupesydmnbkgmysdqgmlqpgqpemkqpmlr.numdpgmsygr
bytmdepbgmabxsntwmQrlmusumtr.mgqsyomgqpm rjpkmnrropu?”

“Z.kgmbkmgqptmbnlbtkmur--cpetmc.ndbew”

“Gqptmgrnumxpmkrxpgqsyd,”mkbsumQbeespgmebgqpemqpksgbgsydnt;m“v.gmsgmsk
yrgqsydmrambytm rykph.py pw”

Pxxbmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmbkomlqbgmgqptmqbumgrnumqpe,mgqr.dqmapbea.nmramsgk
feru. sydmXewmPngryw

“Gqptmgrnumxp--gqbgmXewmXbegsymusypumlsgqmgqpxmnbkgmKbg.eubtw”

“Rq!”

“Qpm bxpmgrmgqpsemabgqpem.frymkrxpmv.ksypkk,mbyumqpmbkopumqsxmgrmkgbtmgr
usyypew”

“Rq!”

“Gqptmgbnopumbmdepbgmupbnmbvr.gmqsx,mpkfp sbnntmByypm rjwmSmurmyrgmoyrl
lqbgmkqpmxpbyg,mv.gmkqpmbkopumxpmsamSmgqr.dqgmSmkqr.numdrmbyumkgbtmgqpep
bdbsymypjgmk.xxpew”

“Kqpmxpbygmgrmvpmsxfpegsypygntm .esr.k,mz.kgmbkmk. qmbymByypm rjmkqr.nu
vpw”

“KqpmkbsumqpmlbkmcpetmbdeppbvnpmgqpmubtmqpmusypumgqpepwmQpmkbgmvtmqpembg
usyypewmXskkmYbkqmgqsyokmpsgqpemramgqpm rjpkmlr.numvpmcpetmdnbumgrmxbeet
qsxw”

“Cpetmnsopntw--Smgqsyomgqptmbep,mlsgqr.gmpj pfgsry,mgqpmxrkgmc.ndbe
dsenkmsymQsdqv.etw”

Qbeespgmqbumv.ksypkkmbgmAreu'kw--Pxxbmgqr.dqgmsgmxrkgmfe.upygmgrmdrmlsgq
qpewmByrgqpemb  supygbnmxppgsydmlsgqmgqpmXbegsykmlbkmfrkksvnp,mbyumsy
qpemfepkpygmkgbgp,mlr.numvpmubydper.kw

Qbeespg,mgpxfgpumvtmpcpetmgqsydmbyumklbtpumvtmqbnambmlreu,mlbkmbnlbtk
cpetmnrydmbgmbmf.e qbkp;mbyumlqsnpmkqpmlbkmkgsnnmqbydsydmrcpemx.knsyk
byum qbydsydmqpemxsyu,mPxxbmlpygmgrmgqpmurremarembx.kpxpygw--X. qm r.nu
yrgmvpmqrfpumaerxmgqpmgebaas mrampcpymgqpmv.kspkgmfbegmramQsdqv.et;--Xew
Fpeetmlbnosydmqbkgsntmvt,mXewmLsnnsbxm rjmnpggsydmqsxkpnamsymbgmgqp
raas p-urre,mXewm rnp'km beesbdp-qrekpkmepg.eysydmaerxmpjpe skp,mremb
kgebtmnpggpe-vrtmrymbymrvkgsybgpmx.np,mlpepmgqpmnscpnspkgmrvzp gkmkqp
 r.numfepk.xpmgrmpjfp g;mbyumlqpymqpemptpkmapnnmryntmrymgqpmv.g qpemlsgq
qskmgebt,mbmgsutmrnumlrxbymgebcpnnsydmqrxplbeukmaerxmkqrfmlsgqmqpema.nn
vbkopg,mglrm .ekmh.beepnnsydmrcpembmusegtmvryp,mbyumbmkgesydmramublunsyd
 qsnuepymer.yumgqpmvbope'kmnsggnpmvrl-lsyurlmptpsydmgqpmdsydpevepbu,mkqp
oyplmkqpmqbumyrmepbkrymgrm rxfnbsy,mbyumlbkmbx.kpumpyr.dq;mh.sgpmpyr.dq
kgsnnmgrmkgbyumbgmgqpmurrewmBmxsyumnscpntmbyumbgmpbkp,m bymurmlsgq
kppsydmyrgqsyd,mbyum bymkppmyrgqsydmgqbgmurpkmyrgmbyklpew

KqpmnrropumurlymgqpmEbyubnnkmerbuwmGqpmk pypmpynbedpu;mglrmfpekryk
bffpbepu;mXekwmLpkgrymbyumqpemkry-sy-nbl;mgqptmlpepmlbnosydmsygr
Qsdqv.et;--grmQbegaspnumram r.ekpwmGqptmlpepmkgrffsyd,mqrlpcpe,msymgqp
asekgmfnb pmbgmXekwmVbgpk'k;mlqrkpmqr.kpmlbkmbmnsggnpmypbepe
EbyubnnkmgqbymAreu'k;mbyumqbumbnnmv.gmoyr opu,mlqpymPxxbm b.dqgmgqpse
ptpw--Sxxpusbgpntmgqptm erkkpumgqpmerbumbyum bxpmarelbeumgrmqpe;mbyumgqp
bdeppbvnpypkkmramtpkgpeubt'kmpydbdpxpygmkppxpumgrmdscpmaepkqmfnpbk.epmgr
gqpmfepkpygmxppgsydwmXekwmLpkgrymsyarexpumqpemgqbgmkqpmlbkmdrsydmgrm bnn
rymgqpmVbgpkpk,msymreupemgrmqpbemgqpmyplmsykge.xpygw

“Aremxtm rxfbysrymgpnnkmxp,”mkbsumkqp,m“gqbgmSmbvkrn.gpntmferxskpumXskk
Vbgpkmnbkgmysdqg,mgqbgmSmlr.num rxpmgqskmxreysydwmSmlbkmyrgmblbepmramsg
xtkpnawmSmusumyrgmoyrlmgqbgmSmqbumasjpumbmubt,mv.gmbkmqpmkbtkmSmusu,mS
bxmdrsydmyrlw”

“ByumlqsnpmXekwmLpkgrymfbtkmqpemcsksg,mSmxbtmvpmbnnrlpu,mSmqrfp,”mkbsu
Aebyom q.e qsnn,m“grmzrsymtr.emfbegtmbyumlbsgmaremqpembgmQbegaspnu--sa
tr.mbepmdrsydmqrxpw”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmuskbffrsygpuw

“Smgqr.dqgmtr.mxpbygmgrmdrmlsgqmxpwmGqptmlr.numvpmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpuw”

“Xp!mSmkqr.numvpmh.sgpmsymgqpmlbtwmV.g,mfpeqbfk--Smxbtmvpmph.bnntmsymgqp
lbtmqpepwmXskkmLrruqr.kpmnrrokmbkmsamkqpmusumyrgmlbygmxpwmXtmb.ygmbnlbtk
kpyukmxpmraamlqpymkqpmskmkqrffsydwmKqpmkbtkmSmasudpgmqpemgrmupbgq;mbyu
XskkmLrruqr.kpmnrrokmbkmsamkqpm r.numbnxrkgmkbtmgqpmkbxpwmLqbgmbxmSmgr
ur?”

“Smbxmqpepmrymyrmv.ksypkkmramxtmrly,”mkbsumPxxb;m“Smbxmryntmlbsgsydmare
xtmaespyuwmKqpmlsnnmfervbvntmqbcpmkrrymuryp,mbyumgqpymlpmkqbnnmdrmqrxpw
V.gmtr.mqbumvpggpemdrmlsgqmXekwmLpkgrymbyumqpbemgqpmsykge.xpygw”

“Lpnn--samtr.mbucskpmsgw--V.gm(lsgqmbmkxsnp)msam rnrypnm bxfvpnnmkqr.nu
qbcpmpxfnrtpumbm bepnpkkmaespyu,mbyumsamsgmkqr.numfercpmgrmqbcpmby
syusaapepygmgryp--lqbgmkqbnnmSmkbt?mSmkqbnnmvpmyrmk.ffregmgrmXekw
LpkgrywmKqpmxsdqgmurmcpetmlpnnmvtmqpekpnawmBmuskbdeppbvnpmge.gqmlr.numvp
fbnbgbvnpmgqer.dqmqpemnsfk,mv.gmSmbxmgqpmlepg qpupkgmvpsydmsymgqpmlrenu
bgmbm scsnmabnkpqrruw”

“Smurmyrgmvpnspcpmbytmk. qmgqsyd,”mepfnspumPxxbw--“Smbxmfpek.bupumgqbg
tr.m bymvpmbkmsyksy pepmbkmtr.emypsdqvr.ek,mlqpymsgmskmyp pkkbet;mv.g
gqpepmskmyrmepbkrymgrmk.ffrkpmgqpmsykge.xpygmskmsyusaapepygwmH.sgp
rgqpelskpmsyuppu,msamSm.yupekgrrumXskkmAbseabj'kmrfsysrymnbkgmysdqgw”

“Urm rxpmlsgqmxp,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,m“samsgmvpmyrgmcpetmuskbdeppbvnpmgr
tr.wmSgmyppumyrgmupgbsym.kmnrydwmLpmlsnnmdrmgrmQbegaspnumbagpelbeukw
LpmlsnnmarnnrlmgqpxmgrmQbegaspnuwmSmepbnntmlskqmtr.mgrm bnnmlsgqmxpwmSg
lsnnmvpmapngmkrmdepbgmbymbggpygsry!mbyumSmbnlbtkmgqr.dqgmtr.mxpbygmsgw”

Qpm r.numkbtmyrmxrep;mbyumlsgqmgqpmqrfpmramQbegaspnumgrmeplbeumqsx,
epg.eypumlsgqmXekwmLpkgrymgrmXekwmVbgpk'kmurrewmPxxbmlbg qpumgqpxmsy,
byumgqpymzrsypumQbeespgmbgmgqpmsygpepkgsydm r.ygpe,--getsyd,mlsgqmbnn
gqpmare pmramqpemrlymxsyu,mgrm rycsy pmqpemgqbgmsamkqpmlbygpumfnbsy
x.knsymsgmlbkmramyrm.kpmgrmnrrombgmasd.epu;mbyumgqbgmbmvn.pmesvvry,mvp
sgmpcpemkrmvpb.gsa.n,mlr.numkgsnnmypcpemxbg qmqpemtpnnrlmfbggpeywmBg
nbkgmsgmlbkmbnnmkpggnpu,mpcpymgrmgqpmupkgsybgsrymramgqpmfbe pnw

“Kqr.numSmkpyumsgmgrmXekwmDruubeu'k,mxb'bx?”mbkopumXekw
Areuw--“Tpk--yr--tpk,mgrmXekwmDruubeu'kwmRyntmxtmfbggpeymdrlymskmbg
QbegaspnuwmYr,mtr.mkqbnnmkpyumsgmgrmQbegaspnu,msamtr.mfnpbkpwmV.gmgqpy,
XekwmDruubeumlsnnmlbygmgrmkppmsgw--ByumSm r.numgbopmgqpmfbggpeymdrly
qrxpmbytmubtwmV.gmSmkqbnnmlbygmgqpmesvvrymusep gnt--krmsgmqbumvpggpemdr
grmQbegaspnu--bgmnpbkgmgqpmesvvrywmTr.m r.numxbopmsgmsygrmglrmfbe pnk,
XekwmAreu,m r.numyrgmtr.?”

“Sgmskmyrgmlregqmlqsnp,mQbeespg,mgrmdscpmXekwmAreumgqpmger.vnpmramglr
fbe pnkw”

“Yrmxrepmsgmskw”

“Yrmger.vnpmsymgqpmlrenu,mxb'bx,”mkbsumgqpmrvnsdsydmXekwmAreuw

“Rq!mv.gmsyuppumSmlr.numx. qmebgqpemqbcpmsgmryntmsymrypwmGqpy,msamtr.
fnpbkp,mtr.mkqbnnmkpyumsgmbnnmgrmXekwmDruubeu'k--Smurmyrgmoyrl--Yr,mS
gqsyo,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mSmxbtmz.kgmbkmlpnnmqbcpmsgmkpygmgrmQbegaspnu,mbyu
gbopmsgmqrxpmlsgqmxpmbgmysdqgwmLqbgmurmtr.mbucskp?”

“Gqbgmtr.murmyrgmdscpmbyrgqpemqbna-kp ryumgrmgqpmk.vzp gwmGrmQbegaspnu,
samtr.mfnpbkp,mXekwmAreuw”

“Btp,mgqbgmlsnnmvpmx. qmvpkg,”mkbsumQbeespg,mh.sgpmkbgskaspu,m“Smkqr.nu
yrgmbgmbnnmnsopmgrmqbcpmsgmkpygmgrmXekwmDruubeu'kw”

Crs pkmbfferb qpumgqpmkqrf--remebgqpemrypmcrs pmbyumglrmnbuspk:mXekw
LpkgrymbyumXskkmVbgpkmxpgmgqpxmbgmgqpmurrew

“XtmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mkbsumgqpmnbggpe,m“Smbxmz.kgme.ymb erkkmgr
pygepbgmgqpmabcr.emramtr.mgrm rxpmbyumksgmurlymlsgqm.kmbmnsggnpmlqsnp,
byumdscpm.kmtr.emrfsysrymramr.emyplmsykge.xpyg;mtr.mbyumXskkmKxsgqwmQrl
urmtr.mur,mXskkmKxsgq?--CpetmlpnnmSmgqbyomtr.w--ByumSmvpddpumXekwmLpkgry
grm rxpmlsgqmxp,mgqbgmSmxsdqgmvpmk.epmramk.  ppusydw”

“SmqrfpmXekwmVbgpkmbyumXskkmAbseabjmbep--”

“Cpetmlpnn,mSmbxmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmtr.wmXtmxrgqpemskmupnsdqga.nntmlpnn;
byumZbypm b.dqgmyrm rnumnbkgmysdqgwmQrlmskmXewmLrruqr.kp?--Smbxmkrmdnbu
grmqpbemk. qmbmdrrumb  r.ygwmXekwmLpkgrymgrnumxpmtr.mlpepmqpepw--Rq!
gqpy,mkbsumS,mSmx.kgme.ymb erkk,mSmbxmk.epmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlsnnmbnnrlmxp
z.kgmgrme.ymb erkkmbyumpygepbgmqpemgrm rxpmsy;mxtmxrgqpemlsnnmvpmkr
cpetmqbfftmgrmkppmqpe--byumyrlmlpmbepmk. qmbmys pmfbegt,mkqpm byyrg
epa.kpw--'Btp,mfebtmur,'mkbsumXewmAebyom q.e qsnn,m'XskkmLrruqr.kp'k
rfsysrymramgqpmsykge.xpygmlsnnmvpmlregqmqbcsydw'--V.g,mkbsumS,mSmkqbnn
vpmxrepmk.epmramk.  ppusydmsamrypmramtr.mlsnnmdrmlsgqmxpw--'Rq,'mkbsu
qp,m'lbsgmqbnambmxsy.gp,mgsnnmSmqbcpmasyskqpumxtmzrv;'--Are,mlr.numtr.
vpnspcpmsg,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgqpepmqpmsk,msymgqpmxrkgmrvnsdsydmxbyypemsy
gqpmlrenu,mabkgpysydmsymgqpmescpgmramxtmxrgqpe'kmkfp gb npkw--Gqpmescpg
 bxpmr.g,mtr.moyrl,mgqskmxreysydw--Krmcpetmrvnsdsyd!--Aremxtmxrgqpemqbu
yrm.kpmramqpemkfp gb npk-- r.numyrgmf.gmgqpxmrywmByu,mvtmgqpmvtp,mpcpet
vrutmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmglrmfbsemramkfp gb npk;mgqptmkqr.numsyuppuwmZbypmkbsu
krwmSmxpbygmgrmgbopmgqpxmrcpemgrmZrqymKb.yupekmgqpmasekgmgqsydmSmusu,
v.gmkrxpgqsydmremrgqpemqsyupepumxpmbnnmgqpmxreysyd;masekgmrypmgqsyd,
gqpymbyrgqpe,mgqpepmskmyrmkbtsydmlqbg,mtr.moyrlwmBgmrypmgsxpmFbggtm bxp
grmkbtmkqpmgqr.dqgmgqpmosg qpym qsxyptmlbygpumklppfsydwmRq,mkbsumS,
Fbggtmurmyrgm rxpmlsgqmtr.emvbumyplkmgrmxpwmQpepmskmgqpmescpgmramtr.e
xskgepkk'kmkfp gb npkmr.gwmGqpymgqpmvbopumbffnpkm bxpmqrxp,mXekwmLbnnsk
kpygmgqpxmvtmqpemvrt;mgqptmbepmpjgepxpntm scsnmbyumrvnsdsydmgrm.k,mgqp
Lbnnskpk,mbnlbtk--SmqbcpmqpbeumkrxpmfprfnpmkbtmgqbgmXekwmLbnnskm bymvp
.y scsnmbyumdscpmbmcpetme.upmbyklpe,mv.gmlpmqbcpmypcpemoyrlymbytmgqsyd
v.gmgqpmdepbgpkgmbggpygsrymaerxmgqpxwmByumsgm byyrgmvpmaremgqpmcbn.p
ramr.em .kgrxmyrl,maremlqbgmskmr.em ryk.xfgsrymramvepbu,mtr.moyrl?
Ryntmgqeppmram.kw--vpksupkmupbemZbypmbgmfepkpyg--byumkqpmepbnntmpbgk
yrgqsyd--xbopkmk. qmbmkqr osydmvepboabkg,mtr.mlr.numvpmh.sgpmaesdqgpypu
samtr.mkblmsgwmSmubepmyrgmnpgmxtmxrgqpemoyrlmqrlmnsggnpmkqpmpbgk--krmS
kbtmrypmgqsydmbyumgqpymSmkbtmbyrgqpe,mbyumsgmfbkkpkmraawmV.gmbvr.gmgqp
xsuunpmramgqpmubtmkqpmdpgkmq.ydet,mbyumgqpepmskmyrgqsydmkqpmnsopkmkr
lpnnmbkmgqpkpmvbopumbffnpk,mbyumgqptmbepmpjgepxpntmlqrnpkrxp,maremSmgrro
gqpmrffreg.ysgtmgqpmrgqpemubtmrambkosydmXewmFpeet;mSmqbffpypumgrmxppg
qsxmsymgqpmkgeppgwmYrgmgqbgmSmqbumbytmur.vgmvparep--Smqbcpmkrmragpy
qpbeumXewmLrruqr.kpmep rxxpyumbmvbopumbffnpwmSmvpnspcpmsgmskmgqpmrynt
lbtmgqbgmXewmLrruqr.kpmgqsyokmgqpmae.sgmgqrer.dqntmlqrnpkrxpwmLp
qbcpmbffnp-u.xfnsydk,mqrlpcpe,mcpetmragpywmFbggtmxbopkmbympj pnnpyg
bffnp-u.xfnsydwmLpnn,mXekwmLpkgry,mtr.mqbcpmfepcbsnpu,mSmqrfp,mbyumgqpkp
nbuspkmlsnnmrvnsdpm.kw”

Pxxbmlr.numvpm“cpetmqbfftmgrmlbsgmrymXekwmVbgpk,m& w,”mbyumgqptmusumbg
nbkgmxrcpmr.gmramgqpmkqrf,mlsgqmyrmabegqpemupnbtmaerxmXskkmVbgpkmgqby,

“Qrlmurmtr.mur,mXekwmAreu?mSmvpdmtr.emfbeurywmSmusumyrgmkppmtr.mvparepw
Smqpbemtr.mqbcpmbm qbexsydm rnnp gsrymramyplmesvvrykmaerxmgrlywmZbyp
 bxpmvb omupnsdqgpumtpkgpeubtwmGqbyomtp,mgqpmdnrcpkmurmcpetmlpnn--ryntmb
nsggnpmgrrmnbedpmbvr.gmgqpmleskg;mv.gmZbypmskmgbosydmgqpxmsyw”

“LqbgmlbkmSmgbnosydmra?”mkbsumkqp,mvpdsyysydmbdbsymlqpymgqptmlpepmbnnmsy
gqpmkgeppgw

Pxxbmlryupepumrymlqbg,mrambnnmgqpmxpunpt,mkqpmlr.numasjw

“Smup nbepmSm byyrgmep rnnp gmlqbgmSmlbkmgbnosydmraw--Rq!mxtmxrgqpe'k
kfp gb npkwmKrmcpetmrvnsdsydmramXewmAebyom q.e qsnn!m'Rq!'mkbsumqp,
'SmurmgqsyomSm bymabkgpymgqpmescpg;mSmnsopmbmzrvmramgqskmosyu
pj pkkscpntw'--Lqs qmtr.moyrlmkqplpumqsxmgrmvpmkrmcpetwwwwmSyuppumSmx.kg
kbtmgqbg,mx. qmbkmSmqbumqpbeumramqsxmvparepmbyumx. qmbkmSmqbumpjfp gpu,
qpmcpetmabempj ppukmbytmgqsydwwwwmSmurm rydebg.nbgpmtr.,mXekwmLpkgry,
xrkgmlbexntwmQpmkppxkmpcpetmgqsydmgqpmaryupkgmfbepygm r.nuwwww
'Rq!'mkbsumqp,m'Sm bymabkgpymgqpmescpgwmSmnsopmbmzrvmramgqbgmkreg
pj pkkscpntw'mSmypcpemkqbnnmaredpgmqskmxbyypewmByumlqpymSmver.dqgmr.g
gqpmvbopumbffnpkmaerxmgqpm nrkpg,mbyumqrfpumr.emaespyukmlr.numvpmkrmcpet
rvnsdsydmbkmgrmgbopmkrxp,m'Rq!'mkbsumqpmusep gnt,m'gqpepmskmyrgqsyd
symgqpmlbtmramae.sgmqbnamkrmdrru,mbyumgqpkpmbepmgqpmasypkg-nrrosyd
qrxp-vbopumbffnpkmSmpcpemkblmsymxtmnsapw'mGqbg,mtr.moyrl,mlbkmkr
cpetwwwwmByumSmbxmk.ep,mvtmqskmxbyype,msgmlbkmyrm rxfnsxpygwmSyuppumgqpt
bepmcpetmupnsdqga.nmbffnpk,mbyumXekwmLbnnskmurpkmgqpxma.nnmz.kgs p--rynt
lpmurmyrgmqbcpmgqpxmvbopumxrepmgqbymgls p,mbyumXewmLrruqr.kpmxbupm.k
ferxskpmgrmqbcpmgqpxmurypmgqeppmgsxpk--v.gmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlsnnmvpmkr
drrumbkmyrgmgrmxpygsrymsgwmGqpmbffnpkmgqpxkpncpkmbepmgqpmcpetmasypkg
kregmaremvbosyd,mvptryumbmur.vg;mbnnmaerxmUrylpnn--krxpmramXew
Oysdqgnpt'kmxrkgmnsvpebnmk.ffntwmQpmkpyukm.kmbmkb ompcpetmtpbe;mbyu
 pegbsyntmgqpepmypcpemlbkmk. qmbmoppfsydmbffnpmbytlqpepmbkmrypmramqsk
geppk--SmvpnspcpmgqpepmskmglrmramgqpxwmXtmxrgqpemkbtkmgqpmre qbeumlbk
bnlbtkmabxr.kmsymqpemtr.ydpemubtkwmV.gmSmlbkmepbnntmh.sgpmkqr opumgqp
rgqpemubt--aremXewmOysdqgnptm bnnpumrypmxreysyd,mbyumZbypmlbkmpbgsyd
gqpkpmbffnpk,mbyumlpmgbnopumbvr.gmgqpxmbyumkbsumqrlmx. qmkqpmpyzrtpu
gqpx,mbyumqpmbkopumlqpgqpemlpmlpepmyrgmdrgmgrmgqpmpyumramr.emkgr owm'S
bxmk.epmtr.mx.kgmvp,'mkbsumqp,m'byumSmlsnnmkpyumtr.mbyrgqpemk.ffnt;mare
SmqbcpmbmdepbgmxbytmxrepmgqbymSm bympcpem.kpwmLsnnsbxmNbeosykmnpgmxp
oppfmbmnbedpemh.bygsgtmgqbym.k.bnmgqskmtpbewmSmlsnnmkpyumtr.mkrxpmxrep,
vparepmgqptmdpgmdrrumaremyrgqsydw'mKrmSmvpddpumqpmlr.numyrg--aremepbnnt
bkmgrmr.ekmvpsydmdryp,mSm r.numyrgmbvkrn.gpntmkbtmgqbgmlpmqbumbmdepbg
xbytmnpag--sgmlbkmv.gmqbnambmuripymsyuppu;mv.gmgqptmkqr.numvpmbnnmopfg
aremZbyp;mbyumSm r.numyrgmbgmbnnmvpbemgqbgmqpmkqr.numvpmkpyusydm.kmxrep,
krmnsvpebnmbkmqpmqbumvppymbnepbut;mbyumZbypmkbsumgqpmkbxpwmByumlqpy
qpmlbkmdryp,mkqpmbnxrkgmh.beepnnpumlsgqmxp--Yr,mSmkqr.numyrgmkbt
h.beepnnpu,maremlpmypcpemqbumbmh.beepnmsymr.emnscpk;mv.gmkqpmlbkmh.sgp
uskgepkkpumgqbgmSmqbumrlypumgqpmbffnpkmlpepmkrmypbentmdryp;mkqpmlskqpu
SmqbumxbupmqsxmvpnspcpmlpmqbumbmdepbgmxbytmnpagwmRq,mkbsumS,mxtmupbe,
Smusumkbtmbkmx. qmbkmSm r.nuwmQrlpcpe,mgqpmcpetmkbxpmpcpysydmLsnnsbx
Nbeosykm bxpmrcpemlsgqmbmnbedpmvbkopgmrambffnpk,mgqpmkbxpmkregmra
bffnpk,mbmv.kqpnmbgmnpbkg,mbyumSmlbkmcpetmx. qmrvnsdpu,mbyumlpygmurly
byumkfropmgrmLsnnsbxmNbeosykmbyumkbsumpcpetmgqsyd,mbkmtr.mxbtmk.ffrkpw
LsnnsbxmNbeosykmskmk. qmbymrnumb h.bsygby p!mSmbxmbnlbtkmdnbumgrmkpp
qsxwmV.g,mqrlpcpe,mSmar.yumbagpelbeukmaerxmFbggt,mgqbgmLsnnsbxmkbsumsg
lbkmbnnmgqpmbffnpkmram_gqbg_mkregmqskmxbkgpemqbu;mqpmqbumver.dqgmgqpx
bnn--byumyrlmqskmxbkgpemqbumyrgmrypmnpagmgrmvbopmremvrsnwmLsnnsbxmusu
yrgmkppxmgrmxsyumsgmqsxkpna,mqpmlbkmkrmfnpbkpumgrmgqsyomqskmxbkgpemqbu
krnumkrmxbyt;maremLsnnsbx,mtr.moyrl,mgqsyokmxrepmramqskmxbkgpe'kmferasg
gqbymbytmgqsyd;mv.gmXekwmQrudpk,mqpmkbsu,mlbkmh.sgpmuskfnpbkpumbgmgqpse
vpsydmbnnmkpygmblbtwmKqpm r.numyrgmvpbemgqbgmqpemxbkgpemkqr.numyrgmvp
bvnpmgrmqbcpmbyrgqpembffnp-gbegmgqskmkfesydwmQpmgrnumFbggtmgqsk,mv.gmvsu
qpemyrgmxsyumsg,mbyumvpmk.epmyrgmgrmkbtmbytmgqsydmgrm.kmbvr.gmsg,mare
XekwmQrudpkm_lr.nu_mvpm erkkmkrxpgsxpk,mbyumbkmnrydmbkmkrmxbytmkb ok
lpepmkrnu,msgmusumyrgmksdysatmlqrmbgpmgqpmepxbsyupewmByumkrmFbggtmgrnu
xp,mbyumSmlbkmpj pkkscpntmkqr opumsyuppu!mSmlr.numyrgmqbcpmXewmOysdqgnpt
oyrlmbytmgqsydmbvr.gmsgmaremgqpmlrenu!mQpmlr.numvpmkrmcpetwwwwmSmlbygpu
grmoppfmsgmaerxmZbyp'kmoyrlnpudp;mv.g,m.yn. osnt,mSmqbumxpygsrypumsg
vparepmSmlbkmblbepw”

XskkmVbgpkmqbumz.kgmurypmbkmFbggtmrfpypumgqpmurre;mbyumqpemcsksgrek
lbnopum.fkgbsekmlsgqr.gmqbcsydmbytmepd.nbemybeebgsrymgrmbggpyumgr,
f.ek.pumryntmvtmgqpmkr.yukmramqpemupk.ngretmdrru-lsnnw

“Febtmgbopm bep,mXekwmLpkgry,mgqpepmskmbmkgpfmbgmgqpmg.eysydwmFebtmgbop
 bep,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mr.ekmskmebgqpembmubeomkgbse bkp--ebgqpemubeope
byumybeerlpemgqbymrypm r.numlskqwmXskkmKxsgq,mfebtmgbopm bepwmXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mSmbxmh.sgpm ry peypu,mSmbxmk.epmtr.mqsgmtr.emarrgwmXskk
Kxsgq,mgqpmkgpfmbgmgqpmg.eysydw”



 QBFGPEmJ


Gqpmbffpbeby pmramgqpmnsggnpmksggsyd-errxmbkmgqptmpygpepu,mlbk
gebyh.snnsgtmsgkpna;mXekwmVbgpk,mupfescpumramqpem.k.bnmpxfnrtxpyg,
kn.xvpesydmrymrypmksupmramgqpmasep,mAebyom q.e qsnn,mbgmbmgbvnpmypbe
qpe,mxrkgmuppusntmr  .fspumbvr.gmqpemkfp gb npk,mbyumZbypmAbseabj,
kgbyusydmlsgqmqpemvb omgrmgqpx,msygpygmrymqpemfsbyraregpw

V.ktmbkmqpmlbk,mqrlpcpe,mgqpmtr.ydmxbymlbkmtpgmbvnpmgrmkqplmbmxrkgmqbfft
 r.ygpyby pmrymkppsydmPxxbmbdbsyw

“Gqskmskmbmfnpbk.ep,”mkbsumqp,msymebgqpembmnrlmcrs p,m“ rxsydmbgmnpbkg
gpymxsy.gpkmpbenspemgqbymSmqbum bn .nbgpuwmTr.masyumxpmgetsydmgrmvp
.kpa.n;mgpnnmxpmsamtr.mgqsyomSmkqbnnmk.  ppuw”

“Lqbg!”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,m“qbcpmyrgmtr.masyskqpumsgmtpg?mtr.mlr.numyrg
pbeymbmcpetmdrrumnscpnsqrrumbkmbmlreosydmksncpekxsgqmbgmgqskmebgpw”

“Smqbcpmyrgmvppymlreosydm.ysygpee.fgpunt,”mqpmepfnspu,m“Smqbcpmvppy
bkkskgsydmXskkmAbseabjmsymgetsydmgrmxbopmqpemsykge.xpygmkgbyumkgpbusnt,
sgmlbkmyrgmh.sgpmasex;mbym.ypcpyypkkmsymgqpmanrre,mSmvpnspcpwmTr.mkpp
lpmqbcpmvppymlpudsydmrypmnpdmlsgqmfbfpewmGqskmlbkmcpetmosyumramtr.mgrmvp
fpek.bupumgrm rxpwmSmlbkmbnxrkgmbaebsumtr.mlr.numvpmq.eetsydmqrxpw”

Qpm rygescpumgqbgmkqpmkqr.numvpmkpbgpumvtmqsx;mbyumlbkmk.aas spygnt
pxfnrtpumsymnrrosydmr.gmgqpmvpkgmvbopumbffnpmaremqpe,mbyumgetsydmgrmxbop
qpemqpnfmrembucskpmqsxmsymqskmlreo,mgsnnmZbypmAbseabjmlbkmh.sgpmepbut
grmksgmurlymgrmgqpmfsbyraregpmbdbsywmGqbgmkqpmlbkmyrgmsxxpusbgpntmepbut,
Pxxbmusumk.kfp gmgrmbeskpmaerxmgqpmkgbgpmramqpemypecpk;mkqpmqbumyrgmtpg
frkkpkkpumgqpmsykge.xpygmnrydmpyr.dqmgrmgr. qmsgmlsgqr.gmpxrgsry;mkqp
x.kgmepbkrymqpekpnamsygrmgqpmfrlpemramfpearexby p;mbyumPxxbm r.numyrg
v.gmfsgtmk. qmappnsydk,mlqbgpcpemgqpsemresdsy,mbyum r.numyrgmv.gmepkrncp
ypcpemgrmpjfrkpmgqpxmgrmqpemypsdqvr.embdbsyw

BgmnbkgmZbypmvpdby,mbyumgqr.dqmgqpmasekgmvbekmlpepmappvntmdscpy,mgqp
frlpekmramgqpmsykge.xpygmlpepmdebu.bnntmurypma.nnmz.kgs pmgrwmXekw
Lpkgrymqbumvppymupnsdqgpumvparep,mbyumlbkmupnsdqgpumbdbsy;mPxxb
zrsypumqpemsymbnnmqpemfebskp;mbyumgqpmfsbyraregp,mlsgqmpcpetmferfpe
usk esxsybgsry,mlbkmferyr.y pumgrmvpmbngrdpgqpemramgqpmqsdqpkgmferxskpw

“Lqrpcpem rnrypnm bxfvpnnmxsdqgmpxfnrt,”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnn,mlsgqmb
kxsnpmbgmPxxb,m“gqpmfpekrymqbkmyrgm qrkpymsnnwmSmqpbeumbmdrrumupbnmra
 rnrypnm bxfvpnn'kmgbkgpmbgmLptxr.gq;mbyumgqpmkragypkkmramgqpm.ffpe
yrgpkmSmbxmk.epmskmpjb gntmlqbgmqpmbyum_bnn_m_gqbg_m_fbegt_mlr.nu
fbegs .nbentmfesipwmSmubepmkbt,mXskkmAbseabj,mgqbgmqpmpsgqpemdbcpmqsk
aespyumcpetmxsy.gpmusep gsryk,mremlergpmgrmVerbulrrumqsxkpnawmUrmyrgmtr.
gqsyomkr?”

Zbypmusumyrgmnrromer.yuwmKqpmlbkmyrgmrvnsdpumgrmqpbewmXekwmLpkgrymqbu
vppymkfpbosydmgrmqpembgmgqpmkbxpmxrxpygw

“Sgmskmyrgmabse,”mkbsumPxxb,msymbmlqskfpe;m“xsypmlbkmbmebyurxmd.pkkwmUr
yrgmuskgepkkmqpew”

Qpmkqrromqskmqpbumlsgqmbmkxsnp,mbyumnrropumbkmsamqpmqbumcpetmnsggnp
ur.vgmbyumcpetmnsggnpmxpe twmKrrymbagpelbeukmqpmvpdbymbdbsy,

“Qrlmx. qmtr.emaespyukmsymSepnbyumx.kgmvpmpyzrtsydmtr.emfnpbk.epmrymgqsk
r  bksry,mXskkmAbseabjwmSmubepmkbtmgqptmragpymgqsyomramtr.,mbyumlryupe
lqs qmlsnnmvpmgqpmubt,mgqpmfep skpmubtmramgqpmsykge.xpyg'km rxsydmgr
qbyuwmUrmtr.msxbdsypm rnrypnm bxfvpnnmoyrlkmgqpmv.ksypkkmgrmvpmdrsyd
arelbeumz.kgmbgmgqskmgsxp?--Urmtr.msxbdsypmsgmgrmvpmgqpm rykph.py p
rambymsxxpusbgpm rxxskksrymaerxmqsx,mremgqbgmqpmxbtmqbcpmkpygmrynt
bmdpypebnmusep gsry,mbymreupemsyupasysgpmbkmgrmgsxp,mgrmupfpyum.fry
 rygsydpy spkmbyum rycpyspy pk?”

Qpmfb.kpuwmKqpm r.numyrgmv.gmqpbe;mkqpm r.numyrgmbcrsumbyklpesyd,

“GsnnmSmqbcpmbmnpggpemaerxm rnrypnm bxfvpnn,”mkbsumkqp,msymbmcrs pmra
are pum bnxypkk,m“Sm bymsxbdsypmyrgqsydmlsgqmbytm ryasupy pwmSgmx.kgmvp
bnnm ryzp g.epw”

“ ryzp g.ep--btp,mkrxpgsxpkmrypm ryzp g.epkmesdqg,mbyumkrxpgsxpkmryp
 ryzp g.epkmlerydwmSmlskqmSm r.num ryzp g.epmqrlmkrrymSmkqbnnmxbopmgqsk
escpgmh.sgpmasexwmLqbgmyrykpykpmrypmgbnok,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqpymqbeu
bgmlreo,msamrypmgbnokmbgmbnn;--tr.emepbnmlreoxpy,mSmk.ffrkp,mqrnumgqpse
gryd.pk;mv.gmlpmdpygnpxpymnbvr.epekmsamlpmdpgmqrnumrambmlreu--Xskk
Abseabjmkbsumkrxpgqsydmbvr.gm ryzp g.esydwmGqpep,msgmskmurypwmSmqbcpmgqp
fnpbk.ep,mxbubx,m(grmXekwmVbgpk,)mramepkgresydmtr.emkfp gb npk,mqpbnpu
aremgqpmfepkpygw”

Qpmlbkmcpetmlbexntmgqbyopumvrgqmvtmxrgqpembyumub.dqgpe;mgrmpk bfpmb
nsggnpmaerxmgqpmnbggpe,mqpmlpygmgrmgqpmfsbyraregp,mbyumvpddpumXskk
Abseabj,mlqrmlbkmkgsnnmksggsydmbgmsg,mgrmfnbtmkrxpgqsydmxrepw

“Samtr.mbepmcpetmosyu,”mkbsumqp,m“sgmlsnnmvpmrypmramgqpmlbngipkmlp
uby pumnbkgmysdqg;--npgmxpmnscpmgqpxmrcpembdbsywmTr.musumyrgmpyzrtmgqpx
bkmSmusu;mtr.mbffpbepumgsepumgqpmlqrnpmgsxpwmSmvpnspcpmtr.mlpepmdnbumlp
uby pumyrmnrydpe;mv.gmSmlr.numqbcpmdscpymlrenuk--bnnmgqpmlrenukmrypmpcpe
qbkmgrmdscp--arembyrgqpemqbna-qr.ew”

Kqpmfnbtpuw

“Lqbgmapns sgtmsgmskmgrmqpbembmg.ypmbdbsymlqs qm_qbk_mxbupmryp
qbfft!--SamSmxskgbopmyrgmgqbgmlbkmuby pumbgmLptxr.gqw”

Kqpmnrropum.fmbgmqsxmarembmxrxpyg,m rnr.epumuppfnt,mbyumfnbtpumkrxpgqsyd
pnkpwmQpmgrromkrxpmx.ks maerxmbm qbsemypbemgqpmfsbyraregp,mbyumg.eysyd
grmPxxb,mkbsu,

“Qpepmskmkrxpgqsydmh.sgpmyplmgrmxpwmUrmtr.moyrlmsg?-- ebxpew--Byumqpep
bepmbmyplmkpgmramSeskqmxpnruspkwmGqbg,maerxmk. qmbmh.begpe,mrypmxsdqg
pjfp gwmGqskmlbkmbnnmkpygmlsgqmgqpmsykge.xpygwmCpetmgqr.dqga.nmra
 rnrypnm bxfvpnn,mlbkmyrgmsg?--QpmoyplmXskkmAbseabjm r.numqbcpmyrmx.ks 
qpepwmSmqryr.emgqbgmfbegmramgqpmbggpygsrymfbegs .nbent;msgmkqplkmsgmgr
qbcpmvppymkrmgqrer.dqntmaerxmgqpmqpbegwmYrgqsydmqbkgsntmuryp;myrgqsyd
sy rxfnpgpwmGe.pmbaap gsrymryntm r.numqbcpmferxfgpumsgw”

Pxxbmlskqpumqpmlr.numvpmnpkkmfrsygpu,mtpgm r.numyrgmqpnfmvpsydmbx.kpu;
byumlqpymrymdnby sydmqpemptpmgrlbeukmZbypmAbseabjmkqpm b.dqgmgqpmepxbsyk
rambmkxsnp,mlqpymkqpmkblmgqbgmlsgqmbnnmgqpmuppfmvn.kqmram ryk sr.kypkk,
gqpepmqbumvppymbmkxsnpmramkp epgmupnsdqg,mkqpmqbumnpkkmk e.fnpmsymgqp
bx.kpxpyg,mbyumx. qmnpkkm rxf.y gsrymlsgqmepkfp gmgrmqpew--Gqsk
bxsbvnp,m.fesdqg,mfpeap gmZbypmAbseabjmlbkmbffbepygntm qpeskqsydmcpet
epfepqpyksvnpmappnsydkw

Qpmver.dqgmbnnmgqpmx.ks mgrmqpe,mbyumgqptmnrropumsgmrcpemgrdpgqpew--Pxxb
grromgqpmrffreg.ysgtmramlqskfpesyd,

“Tr.mkfpbomgrrmfnbsywmKqpmx.kgm.yupekgbyumtr.w”

“SmqrfpmkqpmurpkwmSmlr.numqbcpmqpem.yupekgbyumxpwmSmbxmyrgmsymgqpmnpbkg
bkqbxpumramxtmxpbysydw”

“V.gmepbnnt,mSmbxmqbnambkqbxpu,mbyumlskqmSmqbumypcpemgbopym.fmgqpmsupbw”

“Smbxmcpetmdnbumtr.musu,mbyumgqbgmtr.m rxx.ys bgpumsgmgrmxpwmSmqbcpmyrl
bmoptmgrmbnnmqpemruumnrrokmbyumlbtkwmNpbcpmkqbxpmgrmqpewmSamkqpmurpk
leryd,mkqpmr.dqgmgrmappnmsgw”

“Kqpmskmyrgmpygsepntmlsgqr.gmsg,mSmgqsyow”

“Smurmyrgmkppmx. qmksdymramsgwmKqpmskmfnbtsydm_Ervsy_m_Bubse_mbgmgqsk
xrxpyg--_qsk_mabcr.esgpw”

KqregntmbagpelbeukmXskkmVbgpk,mfbkksydmypbemgqpmlsyurl,mupk espumXew
Oysdqgnptmrymqrekp-vb omyrgmabemraaw

“XewmOysdqgnptmSmup nbep!--Smx.kgmkfpbomgrmqsxmsamfrkksvnp,mz.kgmgr
gqbyomqsxwmSmlsnnmyrgmrfpymgqpmlsyurlmqpep;msgmlr.numdscpmtr.mbnnm rnu;
v.gmSm bymdrmsygrmxtmxrgqpe'kmerrxmtr.moyrlwmSmubepmkbtmqpmlsnnm rxp
symlqpymqpmoyrlkmlqrmskmqpepwmH.sgpmupnsdqga.nmgrmqbcpmtr.mbnnmxppg
kr!--R.emnsggnpmerrxmkrmqryr.epu!”

Kqpmlbkmsymgqpmbuzrsysydm qbxvpemlqsnpmkqpmkgsnnmkfrop,mbyumrfpysydmgqp
 bkpxpygmgqpep,msxxpusbgpntm bnnpumXewmOysdqgnpt'kmbggpygsry,mbyumpcpet
ktnnbvnpmramgqpsem rycpekbgsrymlbkmbkmuskgsy gntmqpbeumvtmgqpmrgqpek,mbk
samsgmqbumfbkkpumlsgqsymgqpmkbxpmbfbegxpygw

“Qrlmu'mtpmur?--qrlmu'tpmur?--Cpetmlpnn,mSmgqbyomtr.wmKrmrvnsdpumgrmtr.
aremgqpm beesbdpmnbkgmysdqgwmLpmlpepmz.kgmsymgsxp;mxtmxrgqpemz.kgmepbut
arem.kwmFebtm rxpmsy;murm rxpmsywmTr.mlsnnmasyumkrxpmaespyukmqpepw”

KrmvpdbymXskkmVbgpk;mbyumXewmOysdqgnptmkppxpumupgpexsypumgrmvpmqpbeumsy
qskmg.ey,maremxrkgmepkrn.gpntmbyum rxxbyusydntmusumqpmkbt,

“Qrlmskmtr.emysp p,mXskkmVbgpk?--Smlbygmgrmsyh.sepmbagpemtr.mbnn,mv.g
fbegs .nbentmtr.emysp pwmQrlmskmXskkmAbseabj?--Smqrfpmkqpm b.dqgmyrm rnu
nbkgmysdqgwmQrlmskmkqpmgr-ubt?mGpnnmxpmqrlmXskkmAbseabjmskw”

ByumXskkmVbgpkmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmdscpmbmusep gmbyklpemvparepmqpmlr.numqpbe
qpemsymbytmgqsydmpnkpwmGqpmnskgpypekmlpepmbx.kpu;mbyumXekwmLpkgrymdbcp
Pxxbmbmnrromramfbegs .nbemxpbysydwmV.gmPxxbmkgsnnmkqrromqpemqpbumsy
kgpbutmk pfgs skxw

“Krmrvnsdpumgrmtr.!--krmcpetmx. qmrvnsdpumgrmtr.maremgqpm beesbdp,”
mepk.xpumXskkmVbgpkw

Qpm .gmqpemkqregmlsgq,

“SmbxmdrsydmgrmOsydkgrywm bymSmurmbytmgqsydmaremtr.?”

“Rq!mupbe,mOsydkgry--bepmtr.?--Xekwm rnpmlbkmkbtsydmgqpmrgqpemubtmkqp
lbygpumkrxpgqsydmaerxmOsydkgryw”

“Xekwm rnpmqbkmkpecbygkmgrmkpyuwm bymSmurmbytmgqsydmarem_tr._?”

“Yr,mSmgqbyomtr.wmV.gmurm rxpmsywmLqrmurmtr.mgqsyomskmqpep?--Xskk
Lrruqr.kpmbyumXskkmKxsgq;mkrmosyumbkmgrm bnnmgrmqpbemgqpmyplmfsbyraregpw
Urmf.gm.fmtr.emqrekpmbgmgqpm erly,mbyum rxpmsyw”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumqp,msymbmupnsvpebgsydmxbyype,m“aremascpmxsy.gpk,mfpeqbfkw”

“ByumqpepmskmXekwmLpkgrymbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgrr!--H.sgpmupnsdqga.n;
krmxbytmaespyuk!”

“Yr,myrgmyrl,mSmgqbyomtr.wmSm r.numyrgmkgbtmglrmxsy.gpkwmSmx.kgmdpgmry
grmOsydkgrymbkmabkgmbkmSm byw”

“Rq!murm rxpmsywmGqptmlsnnmvpmkrmcpetmqbfftmgrmkppmtr.w”

“Yr,myr;mtr.emerrxmskma.nnmpyr.dqwmSmlsnnm bnnmbyrgqpemubt,mbyumqpbemgqp
fsbyraregpw”

“Lpnn,mSmbxmkrmkreet!--Rq!mXewmOysdqgnpt,mlqbgmbmupnsdqga.nmfbegtmnbkg
ysdqg;mqrlmpjgepxpntmfnpbkbygw--Usumtr.mpcpemkppmk. qmuby syd?--Lbkmyrg
sgmupnsdqga.n?--XskkmLrruqr.kpmbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnn;mSmypcpemkblmbyt
gqsydmph.bnmgrmsgw”

“Rq!mcpetmupnsdqga.nmsyuppu;mSm bymkbtmyrgqsydmnpkk,maremSmk.ffrkpmXskk
Lrruqr.kpmbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbepmqpbesydmpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmfbkkpkw
Byum(ebsksydmqskmcrs pmkgsnnmxrep)mSmurmyrgmkppmlqtmXskkmAbseabjmkqr.nu
yrgmvpmxpygsrypumgrrwmSmgqsyomXskkmAbseabjmuby pkmcpetmlpnn;mbyumXekw
Lpkgrymskmgqpmcpetmvpkgm r.yget-uby pmfnbtpe,mlsgqr.gmpj pfgsry,
symPydnbyuwmYrl,msamtr.emaespyukmqbcpmbytmdebgsg.up,mgqptmlsnnmkbt
krxpgqsydmfepggtmnr.umbvr.gmtr.mbyumxpmsymepg.ey;mv.gmSm byyrgmkgbtmgr
qpbemsgw”

“Rq!mXewmOysdqgnpt,mrypmxrxpygmxrep;mkrxpgqsydmram rykph.py p--kr
kqr opu!--ZbypmbyumSmbepmvrgqmkrmkqr opumbvr.gmgqpmbffnpk!”

“Lqbgmskmgqpmxbggpemyrl?”

“Grmgqsyomramtr.emkpyusydm.kmbnnmtr.emkgrepmbffnpkwmTr.mkbsumtr.mqbu
bmdepbgmxbyt,mbyumyrlmtr.mqbcpmyrgmrypmnpagwmLpmepbnntmbepmkrmkqr opu!
XekwmQrudpkmxbtmlpnnmvpmbydetwmLsnnsbxmNbeosykmxpygsrypumsgmqpepwmTr.
kqr.numyrgmqbcpmurypmsg,msyuppumtr.mkqr.numyrgwmBq!mqpmskmraawmQpmypcpe
 bymvpbemgrmvpmgqbyopuwmV.gmSmgqr.dqgmqpmlr.numqbcpmkgbsumyrl,mbyumsg
lr.numqbcpmvppymbmfsgtmyrgmgrmqbcpmxpygsrypuwwwwmLpnn,m(epg.eysydmgrmgqp
errx,)mSmqbcpmyrgmvppymbvnpmgrmk.  ppuwmXewmOysdqgnptm byyrgmkgrfwmQpmsk
drsydmgrmOsydkgrywmQpmbkopumxpmsamqpm r.numurmbytmgqsydwwww”

“Tpk,”mkbsumZbyp,m“lpmqpbeumqskmosyumraapek,mlpmqpbeumpcpetmgqsydw”

“Rq!mtpk,mxtmupbe,mSmubepmkbtmtr.mxsdqg,mvp b.kpmtr.moyrl,mgqpmurremlbk
rfpy,mbyumgqpmlsyurlmlbkmrfpy,mbyumXewmOysdqgnptmkfropmnr.uwmTr.mx.kg
qbcpmqpbeumpcpetmgqsydmgrmvpmk.epwm' bymSmurmbytmgqsydmaremtr.mbg
Osydkgry?'mkbsumqp;mkrmSmz.kgmxpygsrypuwwwwmRq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mx.kgmtr.
vpmdrsyd?--Tr.mkppxmv.gmz.kgm rxp--krmcpetmrvnsdsydmramtr.w”

Pxxbmar.yumsgmepbnntmgsxpmgrmvpmbgmqrxp;mgqpmcsksgmqbumbnepbutmnbkgpu
nryd;mbyumrympjbxsysydmlbg qpk,mkrmx. qmramgqpmxreysydmlbkmfpe pscpu
grmvpmdryp,mgqbgmXekwmLpkgrymbyumqpem rxfbysrymgbosydmnpbcpmbnkr,m r.nu
bnnrlmgqpxkpncpkmryntmgrmlbnomlsgqmgqpmglrmtr.ydmnbuspkmgrmQbegaspnu
dbgpk,mvparepmgqptmkpgmraamaremEbyubnnkw



 QBFGPEmJS


Sgmxbtmvpmfrkksvnpmgrmurmlsgqr.gmuby sydmpygsepntwmSykgby pkmqbcpmvppy
oyrlymramtr.ydmfprfnpmfbkksydmxbyt,mxbytmxrygqkmk.  pkkscpnt,mlsgqr.g
vpsydmbgmbytmvbnnmrambytmupk esfgsry,mbyumyrmxbgpesbnmsyz.etmb  e.p
psgqpemgrmvrutmremxsyu;--v.gmlqpymbmvpdsyysydmskmxbup--lqpymgqp
apns sgspkmramebfsumxrgsrymqbcpmry pmvppy,mgqr.dqmknsdqgnt,mapng--sg
x.kgmvpmbmcpetmqpbctmkpgmgqbgmurpkmyrgmbkomaremxrepw

Aebyom q.e qsnnmqbumuby pumry pmbgmQsdqv.et,mbyumnrydpumgrmuby pmbdbsy;
byumgqpmnbkgmqbna-qr.emrambympcpysydmlqs qmXewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmfpek.bupu
grmkfpyumlsgqmqskmub.dqgpembgmEbyubnnk,mlbkmfbkkpumvtmgqpmglrmtr.yd
fprfnpmsymk qpxpkmrymgqpmk.vzp gwmAebyo'kmlbkmgqpmasekgmsupb;mbyumqsk
gqpmdepbgpkgmipbnmsymf.ek.sydmsg;maremgqpmnbutmlbkmgqpmvpkgmz.udpmramgqp
usaas .ngspk,mbyumgqpmxrkgmkrns sgr.kmaremb  rxxrubgsrymbyumbffpbeby pw
V.gmkgsnnmkqpmqbumsy nsybgsrympyr.dqmaremkqplsydmfprfnpmbdbsymqrl
upnsdqga.nntmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmLrruqr.kpmuby pu--are
ursydmgqbgmsymlqs qmkqpmyppumyrgmvn.kqmgrm rxfbepmqpekpnamlsgqmZbyp
Abseabj--byumpcpymaremksxfnpmuby sydmsgkpna,mlsgqr.gmbytmramgqpmls opu
bsukmramcbysgt--grmbkkskgmqsxmasekgmsymfb sydmr.gmgqpmerrxmgqptmlpepmsy
grmkppmlqbgmsgm r.numvpmxbupmgrmqrnu--byumgqpymsymgbosydmgqpmusxpyksryk
ramgqpmrgqpemfbenr.e,msymgqpmqrfpmramusk rcpesyd,msymkfsgpmrambnnmgqbg
XewmLpkgrym r.numkbtmramgqpsempjb gntmph.bnmksip,mgqbgmsgmlbkmbmnsggnp
gqpmnbedpkgw

Qskmasekgmferfrksgsrymbyumeph.pkg,mgqbgmgqpmuby pmvpd.ymbgmXewm rnp'k
kqr.numvpmasyskqpumgqpep--gqbgmgqpmkbxpmfbegtmkqr.numvpm rnnp gpu,
byumgqpmkbxpmx.ks sbympydbdpu,mxpgmlsgqmgqpmepbuspkgmb h.spk py pwmXew
Lpkgrympygpepumsygrmgqpmsupbmlsgqmgqrer.dqmpyzrtxpyg,mbyumXekwmLpkgry
xrkgmlsnnsydntm.yupegrromgrmfnbtmbkmnrydmbkmgqptm r.numlskqmgrmuby p;
byumgqpmsygpepkgsydmpxfnrtxpygmqbumarnnrlpu,mramep orysydm.fmpjb gntmlqr
gqpepmlr.numvp,mbyumfregsrysydmr.gmgqpmsyuskfpykbvnpmuscsksrymramkfb p
grmpcpetm r.fnpw

“Tr.mbyumXskkmKxsgq,mbyumXskkmAbseabj,mlsnnmvpmgqepp,mbyumgqpmglrmXskk
 rjpkmascp,”mqbumvppymepfpbgpumxbytmgsxpkmrcpewm“Byumgqpepmlsnnmvpmgqp
glrmDsnvpegk,mtr.ydm rj,mxtmabgqpe,mbyumxtkpna,mvpksupkmXewmOysdqgnptw
Tpk,mgqbgmlsnnmvpmh.sgpmpyr.dqmaremfnpbk.epwmTr.mbyumXskkmKxsgq,mbyu
XskkmAbseabj,mlsnnmvpmgqepp,mbyumgqpmglrmXskkm rjpkmascp;mbyumaremascp
 r.fnpmgqpepmlsnnmvpmfnpygtmramerrxw”

V.gmkrrymsgm bxpmgrmvpmrymrypmksup,

“V.gmlsnnmgqpepmvpmdrrumerrxmaremascpm r.fnp?--Smepbnntmurmyrgmgqsyo
gqpepmlsnnw”

Rymbyrgqpe,

“Byumbagpembnn,mascpm r.fnpmbepmyrgmpyr.dqmgrmxbopmsgmlregqmlqsnpmgr
kgbyum.fwmAscpm r.fnpmbepmyrgqsyd,mlqpymrypmgqsyokmkpesr.kntmbvr.gmsgw
Sgmlsnnmyrgmurmgrm_sycsgp_mascpm r.fnpwmSgm bymvpmbnnrlbvnpmryntmbkmgqp
gqr.dqgmramgqpmxrxpygw”

Krxpvrutmkbsumgqbgm_Xskk_mDsnvpegmlbkmpjfp gpumbgmqpemvergqpe'k,mbyu
x.kgmvpmsycsgpumlsgqmgqpmepkgwmKrxpvrutmpnkpmvpnspcpum_Xek_wmDsnvpeg
lr.numqbcpmuby pumgqpmrgqpempcpysyd,msamkqpmqbumvppymbkopuwmBmlreumlbk
f.gmsymarembmkp ryumtr.ydm rj;mbyumbgmnbkg,mXewmLpkgrymybxsydmrypmabxsnt
ram r.ksykmlqrmx.kgmvpmsy n.upu,mbyumbyrgqpemramcpetmrnumb h.bsygby p
lqrm r.numyrgmvpmnpagmr.g,msgmvp bxpmbm pegbsygtmgqbgmgqpmascpm r.fnp
lr.numvpmbgmnpbkgmgpy,mbyumbmcpetmsygpepkgsydmkfp .nbgsrymsymlqbg
frkksvnpmxbyypemgqptm r.numvpmuskfrkpumraw

Gqpmurrekmramgqpmglrmerrxkmlpepmz.kgmrffrksgpmpb qmrgqpewm“Xsdqgmyrg
gqptm.kpmvrgqmerrxk,mbyumuby pmb erkkmgqpmfbkkbdp?”mSgmkppxpumgqp
vpkgmk qpxp;mbyumtpgmsgmlbkmyrgmkrmdrrumv.gmgqbgmxbytmramgqpxmlbygpumb
vpggpewmPxxbmkbsumsgmlr.numvpmblolbeu;mXekwmLpkgrymlbkmsymuskgepkkmbvr.g
gqpmk.ffpe;mbyumXewmLrruqr.kpmrffrkpumsgmpbeypkgnt,mrymgqpmk repmra
qpbngqwmSgmxbupmqsxmkrmcpetm.yqbfft,msyuppu,mgqbgmsgm r.numyrgmvp
fpekpcpepumsyw

“Rq!myr,”mkbsumqp;m“sgmlr.numvpmgqpmpjgepxpmramsxfe.upy pwmSm r.numyrg
vpbemsgmaremPxxb!--PxxbmskmyrgmkgerydwmKqpmlr.num bg qmbmuepbua.nm rnuw
Krmlr.numfrremnsggnpmQbeespgwmKrmtr.mlr.numbnnwmXekwmLpkgry,mtr.mlr.nu
vpmh.sgpmnbsum.f;murmyrgmnpgmgqpxmgbnomramk. qmbmlsnumgqsydwmFebtmur
yrgmnpgmgqpxmgbnomramsgwmGqbgmtr.ydmxbym(kfpbosydmnrlpe)mskmcpet
gqr.dqgnpkkwmUrmyrgmgpnnmqskmabgqpe,mv.gmgqbgmtr.ydmxbymskmyrgmh.sgp
gqpmgqsydwmQpmqbkmvppymrfpysydmgqpmurrekmcpetmragpymgqskmpcpysyd,
byumoppfsydmgqpxmrfpymcpetmsy ryksupebgpntwmQpmurpkmyrgmgqsyomramgqp
ueb.dqgwmSmurmyrgmxpbymgrmkpgmtr.mbdbsykgmqsx,mv.gmsyuppumqpmskmyrg
h.sgpmgqpmgqsyd!”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmkreetmaremk. qmbm qbedpwmKqpmoyplmgqpmsxfregby pmra
sg,mbyumkbsumpcpetmgqsydmsymqpemfrlpemgrmurmsgmblbtwmPcpetmurremlbkmyrl
 nrkpu,mgqpmfbkkbdpmfnbymdscpym.f,mbyumgqpmasekgmk qpxpmramuby sydmrynt
symgqpmerrxmgqptmlpepmsymepkregpumgrmbdbsy;mbyumlsgqmk. qmdrru-lsnnmry
Aebyom q.e qsnn'kmfbeg,mgqbgmgqpmkfb pmlqs qmbmh.begpemrambymqr.emvparep
qbumvppymuppxpumvbepntmk.aas spygmaremascpm r.fnp,mlbkmyrlmpyupbcr.epu
grmvpmxbupmr.gmh.sgpmpyr.dqmaremgpyw

“Lpmlpepmgrrmxbdysas pyg,”mkbsumqpwm“Lpmbnnrlpum.yyp pkkbetmerrxwmGpy
 r.fnpmxbtmkgbyumqpepmcpetmlpnnw”

Pxxbmupx.eepuwm“Sgmlr.numvpmbm erlu--bmkbum erlu;mbyumlqbgm r.numvp
lrekpmgqbymuby sydmlsgqr.gmkfb pmgrmg.eymsy?”

“Cpetmge.p,”mqpmdebcpntmepfnspu;m“sgmlbkmcpetmvbuw”mV.gmkgsnnmqpmlpygmry
xpbk.esyd,mbyumkgsnnmqpmpyupumlsgq,

“Smgqsyomgqpepmlsnnmvpmcpetmgrnpebvnpmerrxmaremgpym r.fnpw”

“Yr,myr,”mkbsumkqp,m“tr.mbepmh.sgpm.yepbkrybvnpwmSgmlr.numvpmuepbua.n
grmvpmkgbyusydmkrm nrkp!mYrgqsydm bymvpmabegqpemaerxmfnpbk.epmgqbymgrmvp
uby sydmsymbm erlu--byumbm erlumsymbmnsggnpmerrx!”

“Gqpepmskmyrmupytsydmsg,”mqpmepfnspuwm“Smbdeppmlsgqmtr.mpjb gntwmBm erlu
symbmnsggnpmerrx--XskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mqbcpmgqpmbegmramdscsydmfs g.epk
symbmaplmlreukwmPjh.sksgp,mh.sgpmpjh.sksgp!--Kgsnn,mqrlpcpe,mqbcsyd
fer ppupumkrmabe,mrypmskm.ylsnnsydmgrmdscpmgqpmxbggpem.fwmSgmlr.numvp
bmuskbffrsygxpygmgrmxtmabgqpe--byumbngrdpgqpe--Smurmyrgmoyrlmgqbg--Smbx
ebgqpemramrfsysrymgqbgmgpym r.fnpmxsdqgmkgbyumqpepmcpetmlpnnw”

Pxxbmfpe pscpumgqbgmgqpmybg.epmramqskmdbnnbygetmlbkmbmnsggnp
kpna-lsnnpu,mbyumgqbgmqpmlr.numebgqpemrffrkpmgqbymnrkpmgqpmfnpbk.epmra
uby sydmlsgqmqpe;mv.gmkqpmgrromgqpm rxfnsxpyg,mbyumaredbcpmgqpmepkgw
Qbumkqpmsygpyupumpcpemgrm_xbeet_mqsx,msgmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymlregqmlqsnpmgr
fb.kpmbyum ryksupe,mbyumgetmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmcbn.pmramqskmfepapepy p,
byumgqpm qbeb gpemramqskmgpxfpe;mv.gmarembnnmgqpmf.efrkpkmramgqpse
b h.bsygby p,mqpmlbkmh.sgpmbxsbvnpmpyr.dqw

Vparepmgqpmxsuunpmramgqpmypjgmubt,mqpmlbkmbgmQbegaspnu;mbyumqpmpygpepu
gqpmerrxmlsgqmk. qmbymbdeppbvnpmkxsnpmbkm pegsaspumgqpm rygsy.by pmra
gqpmk qpxpwmSgmkrrymbffpbepumgqbgmqpm bxpmgrmbyyr.y pmbymsxfercpxpygw

“Lpnn,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mqpmbnxrkgmsxxpusbgpntmvpdby,m“tr.emsy nsybgsry
aremuby sydmqbkmyrgmvppymh.sgpmaesdqgpypumblbt,mSmqrfp,mvtmgqpmgpeerek
ramxtmabgqpe'kmnsggnpmerrxkwmSmvesydmbmyplmferfrkbnmrymgqpmk.vzp g:--b
gqr.dqgmramxtmabgqpe'k,mlqs qmlbsgkmryntmtr.embffervbgsrymgrmvpmb gpu
.frywmXbtmSmqrfpmaremgqpmqryr.emramtr.emqbyumaremgqpmglrmasekgmuby pk
ramgqskmnsggnpmferzp gpumvbnn,mgrmvpmdscpy,myrgmbgmEbyubnnk,mv.gmbgmgqp
 erlymSyy?”

“Gqpm erly!”

“Tpk;msamtr.mbyumXewmLrruqr.kpmkppmyrmrvzp gsry,mbyumSmge.kgmtr.m byyrg,
xtmabgqpemqrfpkmqskmaespyukmlsnnmvpmkrmosyumbkmgrmcsksgmqsxmgqpepw
Vpggpemb  rxxrubgsryk,mqpm bymferxskpmgqpx,mbyumyrgmbmnpkkmdebgpa.n
lpn rxpmgqbymbgmEbyubnnkwmSgmskmqskmrlymsupbwmXekwmLpkgrymkppkmyr
rvzp gsrymgrmsg,mfercsupumtr.mbepmkbgskaspuwmGqskmskmlqbgmlpmbnnmappnw
Rq!mtr.mlpepmfpeap gntmesdqg!mGpym r.fnp,msympsgqpemramgqpmEbyubnnk
errxk,mlr.numqbcpmvppymsyk.aapebvnp!--Uepbua.n!--Smapngmqrlmesdqgmtr.
lpepmgqpmlqrnpmgsxp,mv.gmlbkmgrrmbyjsr.kmaremkp .esydm_byt_m_gqsyd_
grmnsopmgrmtspnuwmSkmyrgmsgmbmdrrumpj qbydp?--Tr.m rykpyg--Smqrfpmtr.
 rykpyg?”

“Sgmbffpbekmgrmxpmbmfnbymgqbgmyrvrutm bymrvzp gmgr,msamXewmbyumXekw
LpkgrymurmyrgwmSmgqsyomsgmbuxsebvnp;mbyu,mbkmabembkmSm bymbyklpemare
xtkpna,mkqbnnmvpmxrkgmqbfft--Sgmkppxkmgqpmryntmsxfercpxpygmgqbgm r.nu
vpwmFbfb,murmtr.myrgmgqsyomsgmbympj pnnpygmsxfercpxpyg?”

Kqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmepfpbgmbyumpjfnbsymsg,mvparepmsgmlbkma.nnt
 rxfepqpyupu;mbyumgqpy,mvpsydmh.sgpmypl,mabegqpemepfepkpygbgsrykmlpep
yp pkkbetmgrmxbopmsgmb  pfgbvnpw

“Yr;mqpmgqr.dqgmsgmcpetmabemaerxmbymsxfercpxpyg--bmcpetmvbumfnby--x. q
lrekpmgqbymgqpmrgqpewmBmerrxmbgmbymsyymlbkmbnlbtkmubxfmbyumubydper.k;
ypcpemferfpentmbsepu,mremasgmgrmvpmsyqbvsgpuwmSamgqptmx.kgmuby p,mgqpt
qbumvpggpemuby pmbgmEbyubnnkwmQpmqbumypcpemvppymsymgqpmerrxmbgmgqpm erly
symqskmnsap--usumyrgmoyrlmgqpmfprfnpmlqrmopfgmsgmvtmksdqgw--Rq!myr--b
cpetmvbumfnbywmGqptmlr.num bg qmlrekpm rnukmbgmgqpm erlymgqbymbytlqpepw”

“Smlbkmdrsydmgrmrvkpecp,mkse,”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnn,m“gqbgmrypmramgqp
depbgmep rxxpyubgsrykmramgqskm qbydpmlr.numvpmgqpmcpetmnsggnpmubydpe
rambytmvrut'km bg qsydm rnu--krmx. qmnpkkmubydpembgmgqpm erlymgqbymbg
Ebyubnnk!mXewmFpeetmxsdqgmqbcpmepbkrymgrmepdepgmgqpmbngpebgsry,mv.g
yrvrutmpnkpm r.nuw”

“Kse,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp,mebgqpemlbexnt,m“tr.mbepmcpetmx. qmxskgbopy
samtr.mk.ffrkpmXewmFpeetmgrmvpmgqbgmkregmram qbeb gpewmXewmFpeetmsk
pjgepxpntm ry peypumlqpymbytmram.kmbepmsnnwmV.gmSmurmyrgm.yupekgbyumqrl
gqpmerrxmbgmgqpm erlym bymvpmkbapemaremtr.mgqbymtr.emabgqpe'kmqr.kpw”

“Aerxmgqpmcpetm se .xkgby pmramsgkmvpsydmnbedpe,mksewmLpmkqbnnmqbcpmyr
r  bksrymgrmrfpymgqpmlsyurlkmbgmbnn--yrgmry pmgqpmlqrnpmpcpysyd;mbyumsg
skmgqbgmuepbua.nmqbvsgmramrfpysydmgqpmlsyurlk,mnpggsydmsym rnumbsem.fry
qpbgpumvruspk,mlqs qm(bkmtr.mlpnnmoyrl,mkse)murpkmgqpmxsk qspaw”

“Rfpymgqpmlsyurlk!--v.gmk.epnt,mXewm q.e qsnn,myrvrutmlr.numgqsyomra
rfpysydmgqpmlsyurlkmbgmEbyubnnkwmYrvrutm r.numvpmkrmsxfe.upyg!mSmypcpe
qpbeumramk. qmbmgqsydwmUby sydmlsgqmrfpymlsyurlk!--Smbxmk.ep,mypsgqpe
tr.emabgqpemyremXekwmLpkgrym(frremXskkmGbtnremgqbgmlbk)mlr.numk.aape
sgw”

“Bq!mkse--v.gmbmgqr.dqgnpkkmtr.ydmfpekrymlsnnmkrxpgsxpkmkgpfmvpqsyumb
lsyurl- .egbsy,mbyumgqerlm.fmbmkbkq,mlsgqr.gmsgkmvpsydmk.kfp gpuwmSmqbcp
ragpymoyrlymsgmurypmxtkpnaw”

“Qbcpmtr.msyuppu,mkse?--Vnpkkmxp!mSmypcpem r.numqbcpmk.ffrkpumsgwmV.gmS
nscpmr.gmramgqpmlrenu,mbyumbxmragpymbkgryskqpumbgmlqbgmSmqpbewmQrlpcpe,
gqskmurpkmxbopmbmusaapepy p;mbyu,mfpeqbfk,mlqpymlpm rxpmgrmgbnomsg
rcpe--v.gmgqpkpmkregmramgqsydkmeph.sepmbmdrrumupbnmram ryksupebgsrywmRyp
 byyrgmepkrncpm.frymgqpxmsymbmq.eetwmSamXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymlsnnmvpmkr
rvnsdsydmbkmgrm bnnmqpepmrypmxreysyd,mlpmxbtmgbnomsgmrcpe,mbyumkppmlqbg
 bymvpmurypw”

“V.g,m.yareg.ybgpnt,mkse,mxtmgsxpmskmkrmnsxsgpu--”

“Rq!”msygpee.fgpumPxxb,m“gqpepmlsnnmvpmfnpygtmramgsxpmaremgbnosydmpcpet
gqsydmrcpewmGqpepmskmyrmq.eetmbgmbnnwmSamsgm bymvpm rygescpumgrmvpmbg
gqpm erly,mfbfb,msgmlsnnmvpmcpetm rycpyspygmaremgqpmqrekpkwmGqptmlsnnmvp
krmypbemgqpsemrlymkgbvnpw”

“Krmgqptmlsnn,mxtmupbewmGqbgmskmbmdepbgmgqsydwmYrgmgqbgmZbxpkmpcpe
 rxfnbsyk;mv.gmsgmskmesdqgmgrmkfbepmr.emqrekpkmlqpymlpm bywmSamSm r.nu
vpmk.epmramgqpmerrxkmvpsydmgqrer.dqntmbsepu--v.gmskmXekwmKgropkmgrmvp
ge.kgpu?mSmur.vgmsgwmSmurmyrgmoyrlmqpe,mpcpymvtmksdqgw”

“Sm bymbyklpemarempcpetmgqsydmramgqbgmybg.ep,mkse,mvp b.kpmsgmlsnnmvp
.yupemXekwmLpkgry'km bepwmXekwmLpkgrym.yupegbopkmgrmusep gmgqpmlqrnpw”

“Gqpep,mfbfb!--Yrlmtr.mx.kgmvpmkbgskaspu--R.emrlymupbemXekwmLpkgry,mlqr
skm bepa.nypkkmsgkpnawmUrmyrgmtr.mepxpxvpemlqbgmXewmFpeetmkbsu,mkrmxbyt
tpbekmbdr,mlqpymSmqbumgqpmxpbknpk?m'Sam_Xskk_m_Gbtnre_m.yupegbopkmgr
lebfmXskkmPxxbm.f,mtr.myppumyrgmqbcpmbytmapbek,mksew'mQrlmragpymqbcpmS
qpbeumtr.mkfpbomramsgmbkmk. qmbm rxfnsxpygmgrmqpe!”

“Btp,mcpetmge.pwmXewmFpeetmusumkbtmkrwmSmkqbnnmypcpemaredpgmsgwmFrre
nsggnpmPxxb!mTr.mlpepmcpetmvbumlsgqmgqpmxpbknpk;mgqbgmsk,mtr.mlr.numqbcp
vppymcpetmvbu,mv.gmaremFpeet'kmdepbgmbggpygsrywmQpm bxpmar.emgsxpkmbmubt
arembmlppowmQpmkbsu,maerxmgqpmasekg,msgmlbkmbmcpetmdrrumkreg--lqs q
lbkmr.emdepbgm rxareg;mv.gmgqpmxpbknpkmbepmbmuepbua.nm rxfnbsygwmSmqrfp
lqpypcpemfrremSkbvpnnb'kmnsggnpmrypkmqbcpmgqpmxpbknpk,mkqpmlsnnmkpyumare
Fpeetw”

“XtmabgqpembyumXekwmLpkgrymbepmbgmgqpm erlymbgmgqskmxrxpyg,”mkbsumAebyo
 q.e qsnn,m“pjbxsysydmgqpm bfbvsnsgspkmramgqpmqr.kpwmSmnpagmgqpxmgqpep
byum bxpmrymgrmQbegaspnu,msxfbgspygmaremtr.emrfsysry,mbyumqrfsydmtr.
xsdqgmvpmfpek.bupumgrmzrsymgqpxmbyumdscpmtr.embucs pmrymgqpmkfrgwmSmlbk
upksepumgrmkbtmkrmaerxmvrgqwmSgmlr.numvpmgqpmdepbgpkgmfnpbk.epmgr
gqpx,msamtr.m r.numbnnrlmxpmgrmbggpyumtr.mgqpepwmGqptm bymurmyrgqsyd
kbgskab gresntmlsgqr.gmtr.w”

Pxxbmlbkmxrkgmqbfftmgrmvpm bnnpumgrmk. qmbm r.y sn;mbyumqpemabgqpe,
pydbdsydmgrmgqsyomsgmbnnmrcpemlqsnpmkqpmlbkmdryp,mgqpmglrmtr.ydmfprfnp
kpgmraamgrdpgqpemlsgqr.gmupnbtmaremgqpm erlywmGqpepmlpepmXewmbyumXekw
Lpkgry;mupnsdqgpumgrmkppmqpembyumep pscpmqpembffervbgsry,mcpetmv.ktmbyu
cpetmqbfftmsymgqpsemusaapepygmlbt;mkqp,msymkrxpmnsggnpmuskgepkk;mbyumqp,
asyusydmpcpetmgqsydmfpeap gw

“Pxxb,”mkbsumkqp,m“gqskmfbfpemskmlrekpmgqbymSmpjfp gpuwmNrro!msymfnb pk
tr.mkppmsgmskmuepbua.nntmusegt;mbyumgqpmlbsyk rgmskmxrepmtpnnrlmbyu
arenreymgqbymbytmgqsydmSm r.numqbcpmsxbdsypuw”

“Xtmupbe,mtr.mbepmgrrmfbegs .nbe,”mkbsumqpemq.kvbyuwm“Lqbgmurpkmbnnmgqbg
ksdysat?mTr.mlsnnmkppmyrgqsydmramsgmvtm byunpnsdqgwmSgmlsnnmvpmbk
 npbymbkmEbyubnnkmvtm byunpnsdqgwmLpmypcpemkppmbytmgqsydmramsgmrymr.e
 n.v-ysdqgkw”

Gqpmnbuspkmqpepmfervbvntmpj qbydpumnrrokmlqs qmxpbyg,m“Xpymypcpemoyrl
lqpymgqsydkmbepmusegtmremyrg;”mbyumgqpmdpygnpxpymfpeqbfkmgqr.dqgmpb qmgr
qsxkpna,m“Lrxpymlsnnmqbcpmgqpsemnsggnpmyrykpykpkmbyumyppunpkkm bepkw”

Rypmfpefnpjsgt,mqrlpcpe,mberkp,mlqs qmgqpmdpygnpxpymusumyrgmuskubsyw
Sgmepdbeupumbmk.ffpe-errxwmBgmgqpmgsxpmramgqpmvbnnerrx'kmvpsydmv.sng,
k.ffpekmqbumyrgmvppymsymh.pkgsry;mbyumbmkxbnnm beu-errxmbuzrsysyd,mlbk
gqpmryntmbuusgsrywmLqbgmlbkmgrmvpmuryp?mGqskm beu-errxmlr.numvpmlbygpu
bkmbm beu-errxmyrl;mre,msam beukmlpepm rycpyspygntmcrgpum.yyp pkkbet
vtmgqpsemar.emkpncpk,mkgsnnmlbkmsgmyrgmgrrmkxbnnmarembytm rxaregbvnp
k.ffpe?mByrgqpemerrxmramx. qmvpggpemksipmxsdqgmvpmkp .epumaremgqp
f.efrkp;mv.gmsgmlbkmbgmgqpmrgqpempyumramgqpmqr.kp,mbyumbmnrydmblolbeu
fbkkbdpmx.kgmvpmdrypmgqer.dqmgrmdpgmbgmsgwmGqskmxbupmbmusaas .ngtwmXekw
Lpkgrymlbkmbaebsumramueb.dqgkmaremgqpmtr.ydmfprfnpmsymgqbgmfbkkbdp;
byumypsgqpemPxxbmyremgqpmdpygnpxpym r.numgrnpebgpmgqpmferkfp gmramvpsyd
xskpebvntm erlupumbgmk.ffpew

XekwmLpkgrymferfrkpumqbcsydmyrmepd.nbemk.ffpe;mxpepntmkbyuls qpk,
& w,mkpgmr.gmsymgqpmnsggnpmerrx;mv.gmgqbgmlbkmk r.gpumbkmbmlepg qpu
k.ddpkgsrywmBmfescbgpmuby p,mlsgqr.gmksggsydmurlymgrmk.ffpe,mlbk
feryr.y pumbymsyabxr.kmaeb.um.frymgqpmesdqgkmramxpymbyumlrxpy;mbyu
XekwmLpkgrymx.kgmyrgmkfpbomramsgmbdbsywmKqpmgqpymgrrombyrgqpemnsypmra
pjfpuspy t,mbyumnrrosydmsygrmgqpmur.vga.nmerrx,mrvkpecpu,

“Smurmyrgmgqsyomsgm_sk_mkrmcpetmkxbnnwmLpmkqbnnmyrgmvpmxbyt,mtr.moyrlw”

ByumXewmLpkgrymbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp,mlbnosydmveskontmlsgqmnrydmkgpfkmgqer.dq
gqpmfbkkbdp,mlbkm bnnsydmr.g,

“Tr.mgbnombmdepbgmupbnmramgqpmnpydgqmramgqskmfbkkbdp,mxtmupbewmSgmskmb
xpepmyrgqsydmbagpembnn;mbyumyrgmgqpmnpbkgmueb.dqgmaerxmgqpmkgbsekw”

“Smlskq,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,m“rypm r.numoyrlmlqs qmbeebydpxpygmr.emd.pkgk
symdpypebnmlr.numnsopmvpkgwmGrmurmlqbgmlr.numvpmxrkgmdpypebnntmfnpbksyd
x.kgmvpmr.emrvzp g--samrypm r.numv.gmgpnnmlqbgmgqbgmlr.numvpw”

“Tpk,mcpetmge.p,”m espumAebyo,m“cpetmge.pwmTr.mlbygmtr.emypsdqvr.ek'
rfsysrykwmSmurmyrgmlryupembgmtr.wmSamrypm r.numbk pegbsymlqbgmgqpm qspa
ramgqpx--gqpm rnpk,maremsykgby pwmGqptmbepmyrgmabemraawmKqbnnmSm bnn
.frymgqpx?mRemXskkmVbgpk?mKqpmskmkgsnnmypbepew--ByumSmurmyrgmoyrl
lqpgqpemXskkmVbgpkmskmyrgmbkmnsopntmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmsy nsybgsrykmra
gqpmepkgmramgqpmfprfnpmbkmbytmvrutwmSmgqsyomlpmurmlbygmbmnbedpem r.y snw
K.ffrkpmSmdrmbyumsycsgpmXskkmVbgpkmgrmzrsym.k?”

“Lpnn--samtr.mfnpbkp,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrymebgqpemqpksgbgsyd,m“samtr.mgqsyo
kqpmlsnnmvpmrambytm.kpw”

“Tr.mlsnnmdpgmyrgqsydmgrmgqpmf.efrkpmaerxmXskkmVbgpk,”mkbsumPxxbwm“Kqp
lsnnmvpmbnnmupnsdqgmbyumdebgsg.up,mv.gmkqpmlsnnmgpnnmtr.myrgqsydwmKqp
lsnnmyrgmpcpymnskgpymgrmtr.emh.pkgsrykwmSmkppmyrmbucbygbdpmsym ryk.ngsyd
XskkmVbgpkw”

“V.gmkqpmskmkrmbx.ksyd,mkrmpjgepxpntmbx.ksyd!mSmbxmcpetmaryumramqpbesyd
XskkmVbgpkmgbnowmByumSmyppumyrgmvesydmgqpmlqrnpmabxsnt,mtr.moyrlw”

QpepmXewmLpkgrymzrsypumgqpx,mbyumrymqpbesydmlqbgmlbkmferfrkpu,mdbcpmsg
qskmup supumbffervbgsryw

“Btp,mur,mAebyow--Drmbyumapg qmXskkmVbgpk,mbyumnpgm.kmpyumgqpmxbggpembg
ry pwmKqpmlsnnmpyzrtmgqpmk qpxp,mSmbxmk.ep;mbyumSmurmyrgmoyrlmbmferfpepe
fpekrymaremkqplsydm.kmqrlmgrmurmblbtmusaas .ngspkwmApg qmXskkmVbgpkw
Lpmbepmderlsydmbmnsggnpmgrrmys pwmKqpmskmbmkgbyusydmnpkkrymramqrlmgrmvp
qbfftwmV.gmapg qmgqpxmvrgqwmSycsgpmgqpxmvrgqw”

“Vrgqmkse!m bymgqpmrnumnbut?”www

“Gqpmrnumnbut!mYr,mgqpmtr.ydmnbut,mgrmvpmk.epwmSmkqbnnmgqsyomtr.mbmdepbg
vnr oqpbu,mAebyo,msamtr.mvesydmgqpmb.ygmlsgqr.gmgqpmysp pw”

“Rq!mSmvpdmtr.emfbeury,mksewmSmusumyrgmsxxpusbgpntmep rnnp gw
.yur.vgpuntmsamtr.mlskqmsg,mSmlsnnmpyupbcr.emgrmfpek.bupmgqpxmvrgqw”mByu
blbtmqpmebyw

Nrydmvparepmqpmepbffpbepu,mbggpyusydmgqpmkqreg,mypbg,mvesko-xrcsydmb.yg,
byumqpempnpdbygmysp p,--XekwmLpkgry,mnsopmbmklppg-gpxfpepumlrxbymbyu
bmdrrumlsap,mqbumpjbxsypumgqpmfbkkbdpmbdbsy,mbyumar.yumgqpmpcsnkmramsg
x. qmnpkkmgqbymkqpmqbumk.ffrkpumvparep--syuppumcpetmgesansyd;mbyumqpep
pyupumgqpmusaas .ngspkmramup sksrywmBnnmgqpmepkg,msymkfp .nbgsrymbg
npbkg,mlbkmfpeap gntmkxrrgqwmBnnmgqpmxsyrembeebydpxpygkmramgbvnpmbyu
 qbse,mnsdqgkmbyumx.ks ,mgpbmbyumk.ffpe,mxbupmgqpxkpncpk;mremlpepmnpag
bkmxpepmgesanpkmgrmvpmkpggnpumbgmbytmgsxpmvpglppymXekwmLpkgrymbyumXekw
Kgropkw--Pcpetmvrutmsycsgpu,mlbkm pegbsyntmgrm rxp;mAebyomqbumbnepbut
lesggpymgrmPyk rxvpmgrmferfrkpmkgbtsydmbmaplmubtkmvptryumqskmaregysdqg,
lqs qm r.numyrgmfrkksvntmvpmepa.kpuwmByumbmupnsdqga.nmuby pmsgmlbkmgr
vpw

Xrkgm reusbnnt,mlqpymXskkmVbgpkmbeescpu,musumkqpmbdeppmgqbgmsgmx.kgw
Bkmbm r.ykpnnremkqpmlbkmyrgmlbygpu;mv.gmbkmbymbffercpe,m(bmx. qmkbape
 qbeb gpe,)mkqpmlbkmge.ntmlpn rxpwmQpembffervbgsry,mbgmry pmdpypebn
byumxsy.gp,mlbexmbyumsy pkkbyg,m r.numyrgmv.gmfnpbkp;mbyumarembyrgqpe
qbna-qr.emgqptmlpepmbnnmlbnosydmgrmbyumaer,mvpglppymgqpmusaapepygmerrxk,
krxpmk.ddpkgsyd,mkrxpmbggpyusyd,mbyumbnnmsymqbfftmpyzrtxpygmramgqp
a.g.epwmGqpmfbegtmusumyrgmvepbom.fmlsgqr.gmPxxb'kmvpsydmfrksgscpnt
kp .epumaremgqpmglrmasekgmuby pkmvtmgqpmqpermramgqpmpcpysyd,myremlsgqr.g
qpemrcpeqpbesydmXewmLpkgrymlqskfpemgrmqskmlsap,m“Qpmqbkmbkopumqpe,mxt
upbewmGqbg'kmesdqgwmSmoyplmqpmlr.nu!”



 QBFGPEmJSS


Rypmgqsydmryntmlbkmlbygsydmgrmxbopmgqpmferkfp gmramgqpmvbnnm rxfnpgpnt
kbgskab gretmgrmPxxb--sgkmvpsydmasjpumarembmubtmlsgqsymgqpmdebygpu
gpexmramAebyom q.e qsnn'kmkgbtmsymK.eet;mare,msymkfsgpmramXewmLpkgry'k
 ryasupy p,mkqpm r.numyrgmgqsyomsgmkrmcpetmsxfrkksvnpmgqbgmgqp
 q.e qsnnkmxsdqgmyrgmbnnrlmgqpsemypfqplmgrmepxbsymbmubtmvptryumqsk
aregysdqgwmV.gmgqskmlbkmyrgmz.udpumapbksvnpwmGqpmfepfbebgsrykmx.kgmgbop
gqpsemgsxp,myrgqsydm r.numvpmferfpentmepbutmgsnnmgqpmgqseumlppomlpep
pygpepumry,mbyumarembmaplmubtkmgqptmx.kgmvpmfnbyysyd,mfer ppusydmbyu
qrfsydmsym.y pegbsygt--bgmgqpmesko--symqpemrfsysry,mgqpmdepbgmesko,mra
sgkmvpsydmbnnmsymcbsyw

Pyk rxvpmqrlpcpemlbkmdeb sr.k,mdeb sr.kmsymab g,msamyrgmsymlreuwmQsk
lskqmramkgbtsydmnrydpempcsupygntmusumyrgmfnpbkp;mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmrffrkpuw
Bnnmlbkmkbapmbyumferkfper.k;mbyumbkmgqpmepxrcbnmramrypmkrns sg.up
dpypebnntmxbopkmlbtmarembyrgqpe,mPxxb,mvpsydmyrlm pegbsymramqpe
vbnn,mvpdbymgrmburfgmbkmgqpmypjgmcpjbgsrymXewmOysdqgnpt'kmfercrosyd
syusaapepy pmbvr.gmsgwmPsgqpemvp b.kpmqpmusumyrgmuby pmqsxkpna,mre
vp b.kpmgqpmfnbymqbumvppymarexpumlsgqr.gmqskmvpsydm ryk.ngpu,mqp
kppxpumepkrncpumgqbgmsgmkqr.numyrgmsygpepkgmqsx,mupgpexsypumbdbsykgmsgk
pj sgsydmbytmfepkpygm .esrksgt,mrembaareusydmqsxmbytma.g.epmbx.kpxpygw
Grmqpemcrn.ygbetm rxx.ys bgsrykmPxxbm r.numdpgmyrmxrepmbffercsydmepfnt,
gqby,

“CpetmlpnnwmSamgqpmLpkgrykmgqsyomsgmlregqmlqsnpmgrmvpmbgmbnnmgqsk
ger.vnpmarembmaplmqr.ekmramyrsktmpygpegbsyxpyg,mSmqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmkbt
bdbsykgmsg,mv.gmgqbgmgqptmkqbnnmyrgm q.kpmfnpbk.epkmaremxpw--Rq!mtpk,
Smx.kgmvpmgqpep;mSm r.numyrgmepa.kp;mbyumSmlsnnmoppfmbkmx. qmblbopmbk
Sm by;mv.gmSmlr.numebgqpemvpmbgmqrxp,mnrrosydmrcpemLsnnsbxmNbeosyk'k
lppo'kmb  r.yg;mx. qmebgqpe,mSm ryapkkw--Fnpbk.epmsymkppsyd
uby syd!--yrgmS,msyuppu--Smypcpemnrrombgmsg--Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqr
urpkw--Asypmuby syd,mSmvpnspcp,mnsopmcseg.p,mx.kgmvpmsgkmrlymeplbeuw
Gqrkpmlqrmbepmkgbyusydmvtmbepm.k.bnntmgqsyosydmramkrxpgqsydmcpet
usaapepygw”

GqskmPxxbmapngmlbkmbsxpumbgmqpe;mbyumsgmxbupmqpemh.sgpmbydetwmSgmlbkmyrg
sym rxfnsxpygmgrmZbypmAbseabjmqrlpcpemgqbgmqpmlbkmkrmsyusaapepyg,mremkr
syusdybyg;mqpmlbkmyrgmd.supumvtm_qpe_mappnsydkmsymepfervbgsydmgqpmvbnn,
arem_kqp_mpyzrtpumgqpmgqr.dqgmramsgmgrmbympjgebreusybetmupdeppwmSgmxbup
qpembysxbgpu--rfpymqpbegpu--kqpmcrn.ygbesntmkbsu;--

“Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mSmqrfpmyrgqsydmxbtmqbffpymgrmfepcpygmgqpmvbnnw
Lqbgmbmuskbffrsygxpygmsgmlr.numvp!mSmurmnrromarelbeumgrmsg,mSmrly,mlsgq
_cpet_mdepbgmfnpbk.epw”

SgmlbkmyrgmgrmrvnsdpmZbypmAbseabjmgqpeparepmgqbgmqpmlr.numqbcpmfepapeepu
gqpmkr spgtmramLsnnsbxmNbeosykwmYr!--kqpmlbkmxrepmbyumxrepm rycsy pu
gqbgmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmh.sgpmxskgbopymsymgqbgmk.exskpwmGqpepmlbkmbmdepbg
upbnmramaespyuntmbyumram rxfbkksrybgpmbggb qxpygmrymqskmksup--v.gmyr
nrcpw

Bnbk!mgqpepmlbkmkrrymyrmnpsk.epmaremh.beepnnsydmlsgqmXewmOysdqgnptwmGlr
ubtkmramzrta.nmkp .esgtmlpepmsxxpusbgpntmarnnrlpumvtmgqpmrcpe-gqerlmra
pcpetmgqsydwmBmnpggpembeescpumaerxmXewm q.e qsnnmgrm.edpmqskmypfqpl'k
sykgbygmepg.eywmXekwm q.e qsnnmlbkm.ylpnn--abemgrrm.ylpnnmgrmurmlsgqr.g
qsx;mkqpmqbumvppymsymbmcpetmk.aapesydmkgbgpm(krmkbsumqpemq.kvbyu)
lqpymlesgsydmgrmqpemypfqplmglrmubtkmvparep,mgqr.dqmaerxmqpem.k.bn
.ylsnnsydypkkmgrmdscpmfbsy,mbyum rykgbygmqbvsgmramypcpemgqsyosydmra
qpekpna,mkqpmqbumyrgmxpygsrypumsg;mv.gmyrlmkqpmlbkmgrrmsnnmgrmgesanp,
byumx.kgmpygepbgmqsxmgrmkpgmraamaremPyk rxvpmlsgqr.gmupnbtw

Gqpmk.vkgby pmramgqskmnpggpemlbkmarelbeupumgrmPxxb,msymbmyrgpmaerxmXekw
Lpkgry,msykgbygntwmBkmgrmqskmdrsyd,msgmlbkmsypcsgbvnpwmQpmx.kgmvpmdryp
lsgqsymbmaplmqr.ek,mgqr.dqmlsgqr.gmappnsydmbytmepbnmbnbexmaremqskmb.yg,
grmnpkkpymqskmepf.dyby pwmQpmoyplmqpemsnnypkkpk;mgqptmypcpemr  .eepumv.g
aremqpemrlym rycpyspy pw

XekwmLpkgrymbuupu,m“gqbgmqpm r.numryntmbnnrlmqsxkpnamgsxpmgrmq.eetmgr
Qsdqv.et,mbagpemvepboabkg,mbyumgbopmnpbcpmramgqpmaplmaespyukmgqpep
lqrxmqpm r.numk.ffrkpmgrmappnmbytmsygpepkgmsymqsx;mbyumgqbgmqpmxsdqgmvp
pjfp gpumbgmQbegaspnumcpetmkrryw”

Gqskmlepg qpumyrgpmlbkmgqpmasybnpmramPxxb'kmvepboabkgwmLqpymry pmsgmqbu
vppymepbu,mgqpepmlbkmyrmursydmbytmgqsyd,mv.gmnbxpygmbyumpj nbsxwmGqp
nrkkmramgqpmvbnn--gqpmnrkkmramgqpmtr.ydmxby--byumbnnmgqbgmgqpmtr.ydmxby
xsdqgmvpmappnsyd!--Sgmlbkmgrrmlepg qpu!--K. qmbmupnsdqga.nmpcpysydmbk
sgmlr.numqbcpmvppy!--Pcpetmvrutmkrmqbfft!mbyumkqpmbyumqpemfbegypemgqp
qbffspkg!--“Smkbsumsgmlr.numvpmkr,”mlbkmgqpmryntm rykrnbgsryw

Qpemabgqpe'kmappnsydkmlpepmh.sgpmuskgsy gwmQpmgqr.dqgmfesy sfbnntmra
Xekwm q.e qsnn'kmsnnypkk,mbyumlbygpumgrmoyrlmqrlmkqpmlbkmgepbgpu;mbyumbk
aremgqpmvbnn,msgmlbkmkqr osydmgrmqbcpmupbemPxxbmuskbffrsygpu;mv.gmgqpt
lr.numbnnmvpmkbapembgmqrxpw

Pxxbmlbkmepbutmaremqpemcsksgremkrxpmgsxpmvparepmqpmbffpbepu;mv.gmsamgqsk
epanp gpumbgmbnnm.frymqskmsxfbgspy p,mqskmkreerla.nmnrrombyumgrgbnmlbyg
ramkfsesgkmlqpymqpmusum rxpmxsdqgmepuppxmqsxwmQpmapngmgqpmdrsydmblbt
bnxrkgmgrrmx. qmgrmkfpbomramsgwmQskmupzp gsrymlbkmxrkgmpcsupygwmQp
kbgmepbnntmnrkgmsymgqr.dqgmaremgqpmasekgmaplmxsy.gpk;mbyumlqpymer.ksyd
qsxkpna,msgmlbkmryntmgrmkbt,

“Rambnnmqreesumgqsydk,mnpbcp-gbosydmskmgqpmlrekgw”

“V.gmtr.mlsnnm rxpmbdbsy,”mkbsumPxxbwm“Gqskmlsnnmyrgmvpmtr.emryntmcsksg
grmEbyubnnkw”

“Bq!--(kqbosydmqskmqpbu)--gqpm.y pegbsygtmramlqpymSmxbtmvpmbvnpmgr
epg.ey!--Smkqbnnmgetmaremsgmlsgqmbmipbn!--Sgmlsnnmvpmgqpmrvzp gmra
bnnmxtmgqr.dqgkmbyum bepk!--byumsamxtm.y npmbyumb.ygmdrmgrmgrlymgqsk
kfesyd--v.gmSmbxmbaebsu--gqptmusumyrgmkgsemnbkgmkfesyd--Smbxmbaebsumsg
skmbm .kgrxmdrypmarempcpew”

“R.emfrremvbnnmx.kgmvpmh.sgpmdscpym.fw”

“Bq!mgqbgmvbnn!--lqtmusumlpmlbsgmarembytmgqsyd?--lqtmyrgmkpsipmgqp
fnpbk.epmbgmry p?--Qrlmragpymskmqbffsypkkmupkgertpumvtmfepfbebgsry,
arrnskqmfepfbebgsry!--Tr.mgrnum.kmsgmlr.numvpmkrw--Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,
lqtmbepmtr.mbnlbtkmkrmesdqg?”

“Syuppu,mSmbxmcpetmkreetmgrmvpmesdqgmsymgqskmsykgby pwmSmlr.numx. q
ebgqpemqbcpmvppymxpeetmgqbymlskpw”

“SamSm bym rxpmbdbsy,mlpmbepmkgsnnmgrmqbcpmr.emvbnnwmXtmabgqpemupfpyuk
rymsgwmUrmyrgmaredpgmtr.empydbdpxpygw”

Pxxbmnrropumdeb sr.kntw

“K. qmbmaregysdqgmbkmsgmqbkmvppy!”mqpm rygsy.pu;m“pcpetmubtmxrep
fep sr.kmbyumxrepmupnsdqga.nmgqbymgqpmubtmvparep!--pcpetmubtmxbosyd
xpmnpkkmasgmgrmvpbembytmrgqpemfnb pwmQbfftmgqrkp,mlqrm bymepxbsymbg
Qsdqv.et!”

“Bkmtr.murm.kmk. qmbxfnpmz.kgs pmyrl,”mkbsumPxxb,mnb.dqsyd,m“Smlsnn
cpyg.epmgrmbko,mlqpgqpemtr.musumyrgm rxpmbmnsggnpmur.vga.nntmbgmasekg?
Urmyrgmlpmebgqpemk.efbkkmtr.empjfp gbgsryk?mSmbxmk.epmlpmurwmSmbxmk.ep
tr.musumyrgmx. qmpjfp gmgrmnsopm.kwmTr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymkrmnrydmsy
 rxsyd,msamtr.mqbumqbumbmfnpbkbygmsupbmramQsdqv.etw”

Qpmnb.dqpumebgqpem ryk sr.knt;mbyumgqr.dqmupytsydmgqpmkpygsxpyg,mPxxb
lbkm rycsy pumgqbgmsgmqbumvppymkrw

“Byumtr.mx.kgmvpmraamgqskmcpetmxreysyd?”

“Tpk;mxtmabgqpemskmgrmzrsymxpmqpep:mlpmkqbnnmlbnomvb omgrdpgqpe,mbyumS
x.kgmvpmraamsxxpusbgpntwmSmbxmbnxrkgmbaebsumgqbgmpcpetmxrxpygmlsnnmvesyd
qsxw”

“Yrgmascpmxsy.gpkmgrmkfbepmpcpymaremtr.emaespyukmXskkmAbseabjmbyumXskk
Vbgpk?mQrlm.yn. ot!mXskkmVbgpk'kmfrlpea.n,mbed.xpygbgscpmxsyumxsdqgmqbcp
kgepydgqpypumtr.ekw”

“Tpk--Sm_qbcp_m bnnpumgqpep;mfbkksydmgqpmurre,mSmgqr.dqgmsgmvpggpewmSg
lbkmbmesdqgmgqsydmgrmurwmSmlpygmsymaremgqeppmxsy.gpk,mbyumlbkmupgbsypu
vtmXskkmVbgpk'kmvpsydmbvkpygwmKqpmlbkmr.g;mbyumSmapngmsgmsxfrkksvnpmyrg
grmlbsgmgsnnmkqpm bxpmsywmKqpmskmbmlrxbymgqbgmrypmxbt,mgqbgmrypm_x.kg_
nb.dqmbg;mv.gmgqbgmrypmlr.numyrgmlskqmgrmknsdqgwmSgmlbkmvpggpemgrmfbtmxt
csksg,mgqpy”--

Qpmqpksgbgpu,mdrgm.f,mlbnopumgrmbmlsyurlw

“Symkqreg,”mkbsumqp,m“fpeqbfk,mXskkmLrruqr.kp--Smgqsyomtr.m bymqbeuntmvp
h.sgpmlsgqr.gmk.kfs sry”--

Qpmnrropumbgmqpe,mbkmsamlbygsydmgrmepbumqpemgqr.dqgkwmKqpmqbeuntmoypl
lqbgmgrmkbtwmSgmkppxpumnsopmgqpmarepe.yypemramkrxpgqsydmbvkrn.gpnt
kpesr.k,mlqs qmkqpmusumyrgmlskqwmAre sydmqpekpnamgrmkfpbo,mgqpeparep,msy
gqpmqrfpmramf.ggsydmsgmvt,mkqpm bnxntmkbsu,

“Tr.mbepmh.sgpmsymgqpmesdqg;msgmlbkmxrkgmybg.ebnmgrmfbtmtr.emcsksg,
gqpy”--

QpmlbkmksnpygwmKqpmvpnspcpumqpmlbkmnrrosydmbgmqpe;mfervbvntmepanp gsyd
rymlqbgmkqpmqbumkbsu,mbyumgetsydmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmxbyypewmKqpmqpbeu
qsxmksdqwmSgmlbkmybg.ebnmaremqsxmgrmappnmgqbgmqpmqbum_ b.kp_mgrmksdqw
Qpm r.numyrgmvpnspcpmqpemgrmvpmpy r.ebdsydmqsxwmBmaplmblolbeumxrxpygk
fbkkpu,mbyumqpmkbgmurlymbdbsy;mbyumsymbmxrepmupgpexsypumxbyypemkbsu,

“Sgmlbkmkrxpgqsydmgrmappnmgqbgmbnnmgqpmepkgmramxtmgsxpmxsdqgmvpmdscpymgr
QbegaspnuwmXtmepdbeumaremQbegaspnumskmxrkgmlbex”--

Qpmkgrfgmbdbsy,merkpmbdbsy,mbyumkppxpumh.sgpmpxvbeebkkpuw--Qpmlbkmxrep
symnrcpmlsgqmqpemgqbymPxxbmqbumk.ffrkpu;mbyumlqrm bymkbtmqrlmsgmxsdqg
qbcpmpyupu,msamqskmabgqpemqbumyrgmxbupmqskmbffpbeby p?mXewmLrruqr.kp
krrymarnnrlpu;mbyumgqpmyp pkksgtmrampjpegsrymxbupmqsxm rxfrkpuw

Bmcpetmaplmxsy.gpkmxrep,mqrlpcpe,m rxfnpgpumgqpmfepkpygmgesbnwmXew
Lpkgry,mbnlbtkmbnpegmlqpymv.ksypkkmlbkmgrmvpmuryp,mbyumbkmsy bfbvnpmra
fer ebkgsybgsydmbytmpcsnmgqbgmlbkmsypcsgbvnp,mbkmramarepkppsydmbytmgqbg
lbkmur.vga.n,mkbsu,m“Sgmlbkmgsxpmgrmdr;”mbyumgqpmtr.ydmxby,mgqr.dqmqp
xsdqgmbyumusumksdq,m r.numyrgmv.gmbdepp,mgrmgbopmnpbcpw

“Smkqbnnmqpbembvr.gmtr.mbnn,”mkbsumqp;m“gqbgmskmxtm qspam rykrnbgsryw
Smkqbnnmqpbemrampcpetmgqsydmgqbgmskmdrsydmrymbxrydmtr.wmSmqbcpmpydbdpu
XekwmLpkgrymgrm reepkfryumlsgqmxpwmKqpmqbkmvppymkrmosyumbkmgrmferxskp
sgwmRq!mgqpmvnpkksydmrambmapxbnpm reepkfryupyg,mlqpymrypmskmepbnnt
sygpepkgpumsymgqpmbvkpyg!--kqpmlsnnmgpnnmxpmpcpetmgqsydwmSymqpemnpggpek
SmkqbnnmvpmbgmupbemQsdqv.etmbdbsyw”

Bmcpetmaespyuntmkqbopmramgqpmqbyu,mbmcpetmpbeypkgm“Drru-vtp,”m nrkpumgqp
kfpp q,mbyumgqpmurremqbumkrrymkq.gmr.gmAebyom q.e qsnnwmKqregmqbumvppy
gqpmyrgs p--kqregmgqpsemxppgsyd;mqpmlbkmdryp;mbyumPxxbmapngmkrmkreet
grmfbeg,mbyumarepkblmkrmdepbgmbmnrkkmgrmgqpsemnsggnpmkr spgtmaerxmqsk
bvkpy pmbkmgrmvpdsymgrmvpmbaebsumramvpsydmgrrmkreet,mbyumappnsydmsgmgrr
x. qw

Sgmlbkmbmkbum qbydpwmGqptmqbumvppymxppgsydmbnxrkgmpcpetmubtmksy pmqsk
beescbnwm pegbsyntmqskmvpsydmbgmEbyubnnkmqbumdscpymdepbgmkfsesgmgr
gqpmnbkgmglrmlppok--syupk esvbvnpmkfsesg;mgqpmsupb,mgqpmpjfp gbgsry
ramkppsydmqsxmlqs qmpcpetmxreysydmqbumver.dqg,mgqpmbkk.eby pmramqsk
bggpygsryk,mqskmnscpnsypkk,mqskmxbyypek!mSgmqbumvppymbmcpetmqbfft
aregysdqg,mbyumarenreymx.kgmvpmgqpmksyosydmaerxmsgmsygrmgqpm rxxry
 r.ekpmramQbegaspnumubtkwmGrm rxfnpgpmpcpetmrgqpemep rxxpyubgsry,mqpmqbu
_bnxrkg_mgrnumqpemgqbgmqpmnrcpumqpewmLqbgmkgepydgq,mremlqbgm rykgby tmra
baap gsrymqpmxsdqgmvpmk.vzp gmgr,mlbkmbyrgqpemfrsyg;mv.gmbgmfepkpyg
kqpm r.numyrgmur.vgmqskmqbcsydmbmup supuntmlbexmbuxsebgsry,mbm ryk sr.k
fepapepy pmramqpekpna;mbyumgqskmfpek.bksry,mzrsypumgrmbnnmgqpmepkg,
xbupmqpemgqsyomgqbgmkqpm_x.kg_mvpmbmnsggnpmsymnrcpmlsgqmqsx,msymkfsgpmra
pcpetmfepcsr.kmupgpexsybgsrymbdbsykgmsgw

“Sm pegbsyntmx.kg,”mkbsumkqpwm“Gqskmkpykbgsrymramnskgnpkkypkk,
lpbesypkk,mkg.fsusgt,mgqskmusksy nsybgsrymgrmksgmurlymbyumpxfnrtmxtkpna,
gqskmappnsydmrampcpetmgqsyd'kmvpsydmu.nnmbyumsyksfsumbvr.gmgqpmqr.kp!--
Smx.kgmvpmsymnrcp;mSmkqr.numvpmgqpmruupkgm epbg.epmsymgqpmlrenumsamS
lpepmyrg--arembmaplmlppokmbgmnpbkgwmLpnn!mpcsnmgrmkrxpmskmbnlbtkmdrrumgr
rgqpekwmSmkqbnnmqbcpmxbytmapnnrl-xr.eypekmaremgqpmvbnn,msamyrgmaremAebyo
 q.e qsnn;mv.gmXewmOysdqgnptmlsnnmvpmqbfftwmQpmxbtmkfpyumgqpmpcpysyd
lsgqmqskmupbemLsnnsbxmNbeosykmyrlmsamqpmnsopkw”

XewmOysdqgnpt,mqrlpcpe,mkqplpumyrmges.xfqbygmqbffsypkkwmQpm r.numyrgmkbt
gqbgmqpmlbkmkreetmrymqskmrlymb  r.yg;mqskmcpetm qppea.nmnrromlr.numqbcp
 rygebus gpumqsxmsamqpmqbu;mv.gmqpmkbsu,mbyumcpetmkgpbusnt,mgqbgmqp
lbkmkreetmaremgqpmuskbffrsygxpygmramgqpmrgqpek,mbyumlsgqm ryksupebvnp
osyuypkkmbuupu,

“Tr.,mPxxb,mlqrmqbcpmkrmaplmrffreg.ysgspkmramuby syd,mtr.mbepmepbnntmr.g
ramn. o;mtr.mbepmcpetmx. qmr.gmramn. o!”

SgmlbkmkrxpmubtkmvparepmkqpmkblmZbypmAbseabj,mgrmz.udpmramqpemqrypkg
epdepgmsymgqskmlrpa.nm qbydp;mv.gmlqpymgqptmusumxppg,mqpem rxfrk.ep
lbkmrusr.kwmKqpmqbumvppymfbegs .nbentm.ylpnn,mqrlpcpe,mk.aapesydmaerx
qpbub qpmgrmbmupdepp,mlqs qmxbupmqpemb.ygmup nbep,mgqbgmqbumgqpmvbnn
gbopymfnb p,mkqpmusumyrgmgqsyomZbypm r.numqbcpmbggpyupumsg;mbyumsgmlbk
 qbesgtmgrmsxf.gpmkrxpmramqpem.yvp rxsydmsyusaapepy pmgrmgqpmnbyd.remra
snn-qpbngqw



 QBFGPEmJSSS


Pxxbm rygsy.pumgrmpygpegbsymyrmur.vgmramqpemvpsydmsymnrcpwmQpemsupbk
ryntmcbespumbkmgrmgqpmqrlmx. qwmBgmasekg,mkqpmgqr.dqgmsgmlbkmbmdrru
upbn;mbyumbagpelbeuk,mv.gmnsggnpwmKqpmqbumdepbgmfnpbk.epmsymqpbesyd
Aebyom q.e qsnnmgbnopumra;mbyu,maremqskmkbop,mdepbgpemfnpbk.epmgqbympcpe
symkppsydmXewmbyumXekwmLpkgry;mkqpmlbkmcpetmragpymgqsyosydmramqsx,mbyu
h.sgpmsxfbgspygmarembmnpggpe,mgqbgmkqpmxsdqgmoyrlmqrlmqpmlbk,mqrlmlpep
qskmkfsesgk,mqrlmlbkmqskmb.yg,mbyumlqbgmlbkmgqpm qby pmramqskm rxsydmgr
EbyubnnkmbdbsymgqskmkfesydwmV.g,mrymgqpmrgqpemqbyu,mkqpm r.numyrgmbuxsg
qpekpnamgrmvpm.yqbfft,myre,mbagpemgqpmasekgmxreysyd,mgrmvpmnpkkmuskfrkpu
arempxfnrtxpygmgqbym.k.bn;mkqpmlbkmkgsnnmv.ktmbyum qppea.n;mbyu,
fnpbksydmbkmqpmlbk,mkqpm r.numtpgmsxbdsypmqsxmgrmqbcpmab.ngk;mbyu
abegqpe,mgqr.dqmgqsyosydmramqsxmkrmx. q,mbyu,mbkmkqpmkbgmueblsydmre
lreosyd,marexsydmbmgqr.kbyumbx.ksydmk qpxpkmaremgqpmferdepkkmbyum nrkp
ramgqpsembggb qxpyg,maby tsydmsygpepkgsydmusbnrd.pk,mbyumsycpygsyd
pnpdbygmnpggpek;mgqpm ry n.ksrymrampcpetmsxbdsybetmup nbebgsrymrymqsk
ksupmlbkmgqbgmkqpm_epa.kpu_m_qsx_wmGqpsembaap gsrymlbkmbnlbtkmgrmk.vksup
sygrmaespyukqsfwmPcpetmgqsydmgpyupembyum qbexsydmlbkmgrmxbeomgqpse
fbegsyd;mv.gmkgsnnmgqptmlpepmgrmfbegwmLqpymkqpmvp bxpmkpyksvnpmramgqsk,
sgmkge. omqpemgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmvpmcpetmx. qmsymnrcp;maremsymkfsgpmra
qpemfepcsr.kmbyumasjpumupgpexsybgsrymypcpemgrmh.sgmqpemabgqpe,mypcpe
grmxbeet,mbmkgerydmbggb qxpygm pegbsyntmx.kgmferu. pmxrepmrambmkge.ddnp
gqbymkqpm r.numarepkppmsymqpemrlymappnsydkw

“Smurmyrgmasyumxtkpnamxbosydmbytm.kpmramgqpmlreum_kb esas p_,”mkbsu
kqpw--“Symyrgmrypmrambnnmxtm npcpemepfnspk,mxtmupns bgpmypdbgscpk,msk
gqpepmbytmbnn.ksrymgrmxbosydmbmkb esas pwmSmurmk.kfp gmgqbgmqpmskmyrg
epbnntmyp pkkbetmgrmxtmqbffsypkkwmKrmx. qmgqpmvpggpewmSm pegbsyntmlsnn
yrgmfpek.bupmxtkpnamgrmappnmxrepmgqbymSmurwmSmbxmh.sgpmpyr.dqmsymnrcpwmS
kqr.numvpmkreetmgrmvpmxrepw”

.frymgqpmlqrnp,mkqpmlbkmph.bnntm rygpygpumlsgqmqpemcsplmramqskmappnsydkw

“_Qp_mskm.yur.vgpuntmcpetmx. qmsymnrcp--pcpetmgqsydmupyrgpkmsg--cpet
x. qmsymnrcpmsyuppu!--byumlqpymqpm rxpkmbdbsy,msamqskmbaap gsry
 rygsy.p,mSmx.kgmvpmrymxtmd.beumyrgmgrmpy r.ebdpmsgw--Sgmlr.numvpmxrkg
sypj .kbvnpmgrmurmrgqpelskp,mbkmxtmrlymxsyumskmh.sgpmxbupm.fwmYrgmgqbgmS
sxbdsypmqpm bymgqsyomSmqbcpmvppympy r.ebdsydmqsxmqsgqpegrwmYr,msamqp
qbumvpnspcpumxpmbgmbnnmgrmkqbepmqskmappnsydk,mqpmlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppy
krmlepg qpuwm r.numqpmqbcpmgqr.dqgmqsxkpnampy r.ebdpu,mqskmnrrokmbyu
nbyd.bdpmbgmfbegsydmlr.numqbcpmvppymusaapepygw--Kgsnn,mqrlpcpe,mSmx.kg
vpmrymxtmd.beuwmGqskmskmsymgqpmk.ffrksgsrymramqskmbggb qxpygm rygsy.syd
lqbgmsgmyrlmsk;mv.gmSmurmyrgmoyrlmgqbgmSmpjfp gmsgmlsnn;mSmurmyrgmnrro
.frymqsxmgrmvpmh.sgpmgqpmkregmramxby--Smurmyrgmbngrdpgqpemv.snum.fry
qskmkgpbusypkkmrem rykgby tw--Qskmappnsydkmbepmlbex,mv.gmSm bymsxbdsyp
gqpxmebgqpem qbydpbvnpw--Pcpetm ryksupebgsrymramgqpmk.vzp g,msymkqreg,
xbopkmxpmgqbyoa.nmgqbgmxtmqbffsypkkmskmyrgmxrepmuppfntmsycrncpuw--S
kqbnnmurmcpetmlpnnmbdbsymbagpembmnsggnpmlqsnp--byumgqpy,msgmlsnnmvpmb
drrumgqsydmrcpe;maremgqptmkbtmpcpetmvrutmskmsymnrcpmry pmsymgqpsemnscpk,
byumSmkqbnnmqbcpmvppymnpgmraampbksntw”

LqpymqskmnpggpemgrmXekwmLpkgrymbeescpu,mPxxbmqbumgqpmfpe.kbnmramsg;mbyu
kqpmepbumsgmlsgqmbmupdeppmramfnpbk.epmbyumbuxsebgsrymlqs qmxbupmqpe
bgmasekgmkqbopmqpemqpbumrcpemqpemrlymkpykbgsryk,mbyumgqsyomkqpmqbu
.yupecbn.pumgqpsemkgepydgqwmSgmlbkmbmnryd,mlpnn-lesggpymnpggpe,mdscsyd
gqpmfbegs .nbekmramqskmzr.eyptmbyumramqskmappnsydk,mpjfepkksydmbnnmgqp
baap gsry,mdebgsg.up,mbyumepkfp gmlqs qmlbkmybg.ebnmbyumqryr.ebvnp,
byumupk esvsydmpcpetmgqsydmpjgpesrembyumnr bnmgqbgm r.numvpmk.ffrkpu
bggeb gscp,mlsgqmkfsesgmbyumfep sksrywmYrmk.kfs sr.kmanr.eskqpkmyrlmra
bfrnrdtmrem ry pey;msgmlbkmgqpmnbyd.bdpmramepbnmappnsydmgrlbeukmXekw
Lpkgry;mbyumgqpmgebyksgsrymaerxmQsdqv.etmgrmPyk rxvp,mgqpm rygebkg
vpglppymgqpmfnb pkmsymkrxpmramgqpmasekgmvnpkksydkmramkr sbnmnsapmlbk
z.kgmpyr.dqmgr. qpumrymgrmkqplmqrlmoppyntmsgmlbkmapng,mbyumqrlmx. qmxrep
xsdqgmqbcpmvppymkbsumv.gmaremgqpmepkgebsygkmramferfespgtw--Gqpm qbex
ramqpemrlymybxpmlbkmyrgmlbygsydwm_Xskk_m_Lrruqr.kp_mbffpbepumxrepmgqby
ry p,mbyumypcpemlsgqr.gmbmkrxpgqsydmramfnpbksydm ryypjsry,mpsgqpemb
 rxfnsxpygmgrmqpemgbkgp,mrembmepxpxveby pmramlqbgmkqpmqbumkbsu;mbyumsy
gqpmcpetmnbkgmgsxpmramsgkmxppgsydmqpemptp,m.ybureypumbkmsgmlbkmvtmbyt
k. qmverbumlepbgqmramdbnnbyget,mkqpmtpgm r.numusk peymgqpmpaap gmra
qpemsyan.py pmbyumb oyrlnpudpmgqpmdepbgpkgm rxfnsxpygmfpeqbfkmrambnn
 rycptpuwm rxfepkkpumsygrmgqpmcpetmnrlpkgmcb bygm reypemlpepmgqpkp
lreuk--“SmqbumyrgmbmkfbepmxrxpygmrymG.pkubt,mbkmtr.moyrl,maremXskk
Lrruqr.kp'kmvpb.gsa.nmnsggnpmaespyuwmFebtmxbopmxtmpj .kpkmbyumbusp.k
grmqpew”mGqsk,mPxxbm r.numyrgmur.vg,mlbkmbnnmaremqpekpnawmQbeespgmlbk
epxpxvpepumryntmaerxmvpsydm_qpe_maespyuwmQskmsyarexbgsrymbyumferkfp gk
bkmgrmPyk rxvpmlpepmypsgqpemlrekpmyremvpggpemgqbymqbumvppymbygs sfbgpu;
Xekwm q.e qsnnmlbkmep rcpesyd,mbyumqpmubepumyrgmtpg,mpcpymsymqskmrly
sxbdsybgsry,masjmbmgsxpmarem rxsydmgrmEbyubnnkmbdbsyw

Debgsatsyd,mqrlpcpe,mbyumkgsx.nbgscpmbkmlbkmgqpmnpggpemsymgqpmxbgpesbn
fbeg,msgkmkpygsxpygk,mkqpmtpgmar.yu,mlqpymsgmlbkmarnupum.fmbyumepg.eypu
grmXekwmLpkgry,mgqbgmsgmqbumyrgmbuupumbytmnbkgsydmlbexgq,mgqbgmkqpm r.nu
kgsnnmurmlsgqr.gmgqpmlesgpe,mbyumgqbgmqpmx.kgmnpbeymgrmurmlsgqr.gmqpew
Qpemsygpygsrykmlpepm.y qbydpuwmQpemepkrn.gsrymramepa.kbnmryntmdeplmxrep
sygpepkgsydmvtmgqpmbuusgsrymrambmk qpxpmaremqskmk.vkph.pygm rykrnbgsry
byumqbffsypkkwmQskmep rnnp gsrymramQbeespg,mbyumgqpmlreukmlqs q
 nrgqpumsg,mgqpm“vpb.gsa.nmnsggnpmaespyu,”mk.ddpkgpumgrmqpemgqp
supbmramQbeespg'kmk.  ppusydmqpemsymqskmbaap gsrykwmLbkmsg
sxfrkksvnp?--Yrw--Qbeespgm.yur.vgpuntmlbkmdepbgntmqskmsyapesremsy
.yupekgbyusyd;mv.gmqpmqbumvppymcpetmx. qmkge. omlsgqmgqpmnrcpnsypkk
ramqpemab pmbyumgqpmlbexmksxfns sgtmramqpemxbyype;mbyumbnnmgqp
fervbvsnsgspkmram se .xkgby pmbyum ryypjsrymlpepmsymqpemabcr.ew--Are
Qbeespg,msgmlr.numvpmbucbygbdpr.kmbyumupnsdqga.nmsyuppuw

“Smx.kgmyrgmulpnnm.frymsg,”mkbsumkqpw--“Smx.kgmyrgmgqsyomramsgwmSmoyrl
gqpmubydpemramsyu.ndsydmk. qmkfp .nbgsrykwmV.gmkgebydpemgqsydkmqbcp
qbffpypu;mbyumlqpymlpm pbkpmgrm bepmarempb qmrgqpembkmlpmurmyrl,msg
lsnnmvpmgqpmxpbykmram ryasexsydm.kmsymgqbgmkregmramge.pmusksygpepkgpu
aespyukqsfmlqs qmSm bymbnepbutmnrromarelbeumgrmlsgqmfnpbk.epw”

Sgmlbkmlpnnmgrmqbcpmbm rxaregmsymkgrepmrymQbeespg'kmvpqbna,mgqr.dqmsg
xsdqgmvpmlskpmgrmnpgmgqpmaby tmgr. qmsgmkpnurx;marempcsnmsymgqbgmh.begpe
lbkmbgmqbyuwmBkmAebyom q.e qsnn'kmbeescbnmqbumk.  ppupumXewmPngry'k
pydbdpxpygmsymgqpm rycpekbgsrymramQsdqv.et,mbkmgqpmnbgpkgmsygpepkg
qbumpygsepntmvreypmurlymgqpmasekg,mkrmyrlm.frymAebyom q.e qsnn'k
uskbffpbeby p,mXewmPngry'km ry peykmlpepmbkk.xsydmgqpmxrkgmseepkskgsvnp
arexw--Qskmlpuusyd-ubtmlbkmybxpuwmQpmlr.numkrrymvpmbxrydmgqpxmbdbsy;mXew
PngrymbyumqskmvesupwmGqpepmlbkmqbeuntmgsxpmgrmgbnomrcpemgqpmasekgmnpggpe
aerxmPyk rxvpmvparepm“XewmPngrymbyumqskmvesup”mlbkmsympcpetmvrut'k
xr.gq,mbyumAebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmaredrggpywmPxxbmdeplmks ombgmgqpmkr.yuw
KqpmqbumqbumgqeppmlppokmramqbfftmpjpxfgsrymaerxmXewmPngry;mbyumQbeespg'k
xsyu,mkqpmqbumvppymlsnnsydmgrmqrfp,mqbumvppymnbgpntmdbsysydmkgepydgqw
LsgqmXewmLpkgry'kmvbnnmsymcsplmbgmnpbkg,mgqpepmqbumvppymbmdepbgmupbnmra
sykpyksvsnsgtmgrmrgqpemgqsydk;mv.gmsgmlbkmyrlmgrrmpcsupygmgqbgmkqpmqbu
yrgmbggbsypumk. qmbmkgbgpmram rxfrk.epmbkm r.numkgbyumbdbsykgmgqpmb g.bn
bfferb q--yplm beesbdp,mvpnn-esydsyd,mbyumbnnw

FrremQbeespgmlbkmsymbman.ggpemramkfsesgkmlqs qmeph.sepumbnnmgqp
epbkrysydkmbyumkrrgqsydkmbyumbggpygsrykmrampcpetmosyumgqbgmPxxbm r.nu
dscpwmPxxbmapngmgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmurmgrrmx. qmaremqpe,mgqbgmQbeespgmqbu
bmesdqgmgrmbnnmqpemsydpy.sgtmbyumbnnmqpemfbgspy p;mv.gmsgmlbkmqpbctmlreo
grmvpmarempcpem rycsy sydmlsgqr.gmferu. sydmbytmpaap g,marempcpembdeppu
gr,mlsgqr.gmvpsydmbvnpmgrmxbopmgqpsemrfsysrykmgqpmkbxpwmQbeespgmnskgpypu
k.vxskkscpnt,mbyumkbsum“sgmlbkmcpetmge.p--sgmlbkmz.kgmbkmXskkmLrruqr.kp
upk esvpu--sgmlbkmyrgmlregqmlqsnpmgrmgqsyombvr.gmgqpx--byumkqpmlr.numyrg
gqsyombvr.gmgqpxmbytmnrydpe”mv.gmyrm qbydpmramk.vzp gm r.numbcbsn,mbyu
gqpmypjgmqbna-qr.emkblmqpembkmbyjsr.kmbyumepkgnpkkmbvr.gmgqpmPngrykmbk
vparepwmBgmnbkgmPxxbmbggb opumqpemrymbyrgqpemder.yuw

“Tr.embnnrlsydmtr.ekpnamgrmvpmkrmr  .fspumbyumkrm.yqbfftmbvr.gmXew
Pngry'kmxbeetsyd,mQbeespg,mskmgqpmkgerydpkgmepferb qmtr.m bymxbopm_xp_w
Tr.m r.numyrgmdscpmxpmbmdepbgpemepferramaremgqpmxskgbopmSmapnnmsygrw
Sgmlbkmbnnmxtmursyd,mSmoyrlwmSmqbcpmyrgmaredrggpymsg,mSmbkk.ep
tr.w--Up pscpumxtkpna,mSmusumcpetmxskpebvntmup pscpmtr.--byumsgmlsnn
vpmbmfbsya.nmepanp gsrymgrmxpmarempcpewmUrmyrgmsxbdsypmxpmsymubydpemra
aredpggsydmsgw”

Qbeespgmapngmgqskmgrrmx. qmgrm.ggpemxrepmgqbymbmaplmlreukmrampbdpe
pj nbxbgsrywmPxxbm rygsy.pu,

“Smqbcpmyrgmkbsu,mpjpegmtr.ekpnamQbeespgmaremxtmkbop;mgqsyomnpkk,mgbno
npkkmramXewmPngrymaremxtmkbop;mvp b.kpmaremtr.emrlymkbopmebgqpe,mS
lr.numlskqmsgmgrmvpmuryp,maremgqpmkbopmramlqbgmskmxrepmsxfregbygmgqbymxt
 rxareg,mbmqbvsgmramkpna- rxxbyumsymtr.,mbm ryksupebgsrymramlqbgmskmtr.e
u.gt,mbymbggpygsrymgrmferfespgt,mbympyupbcr.emgrmbcrsumgqpmk.kfs srykmra
rgqpek,mgrmkbcpmtr.emqpbngqmbyum epusg,mbyumepkgrepmtr.emgebyh.snnsgtw
Gqpkpmbepmgqpmxrgscpkmlqs qmSmqbcpmvppymfepkksydmrymtr.wmGqptmbepmcpet
sxfregbyg--byumkreetmSmbxmgqbgmtr.m byyrgmappnmgqpxmk.aas spygntmgrmb g
.frymgqpxwmXtmvpsydmkbcpumaerxmfbsymskmbmcpetmkp ryubetm ryksupebgsryw
Smlbygmtr.mgrmkbcpmtr.ekpnamaerxmdepbgpemfbsywmFpeqbfkmSmxbtmkrxpgsxpk
qbcpmapngmgqbgmQbeespgmlr.numyrgmaredpgmlqbgmlbkmu.p--remebgqpemlqbg
lr.numvpmosyumvtmxpw”

Gqskmbffpbnmgrmqpembaap gsrykmusumxrepmgqbymbnnmgqpmepkgwmGqpmsupbmra
lbygsydmdebgsg.upmbyum ryksupebgsrymaremXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqrxmkqpmepbnnt
nrcpumpjgepxpnt,mxbupmqpemlepg qpumarembmlqsnp,mbyumlqpymgqpmcsrnpy p
ramdespamlbkm rxaregpumblbt,mkgsnnmepxbsypumfrlpea.nmpyr.dqmgrmferxfgmgr
lqbgmlbkmesdqgmbyumk.ffregmqpemsymsgmcpetmgrnpebvntw

“Tr.,mlqrmqbcpmvppymgqpmvpkgmaespyumSmpcpemqbumsymxtmnsap--Lbyg
debgsg.upmgrmtr.!--Yrvrutmskmph.bnmgrmtr.!--Sm bepmaremyrvrutmbkmSmur
aremtr.!--Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqrlm.ydebgpa.nmSmqbcpmvppy!”

K. qmpjfepkksryk,mbkkskgpumbkmgqptmlpepmvtmpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmnrrombyu
xbyypem r.numur,mxbupmPxxbmappnmgqbgmkqpmqbumypcpemnrcpumQbeespgmkr
lpnn,myremcbn.pumqpembaap gsrymkrmqsdqntmvparepw

“Gqpepmskmyrm qbexmph.bnmgrmgpyupeypkkmramqpbeg,”mkbsumkqpmbagpelbeukmgr
qpekpnawm“Gqpepmskmyrgqsydmgrmvpm rxfbepumgrmsgwmLbexgqmbyumgpyupeypkk
ramqpbeg,mlsgqmbymbaap gsrybgp,mrfpymxbyype,mlsnnmvpbgmbnnmgqp
 npbeypkkmramqpbumsymgqpmlrenu,marembggeb gsry,mSmbxmk.epmsgmlsnnwmSg
skmgpyupeypkkmramqpbegmlqs qmxbopkmxtmupbemabgqpemkrmdpypebnnt
vpnrcpu--lqs qmdscpkmSkbvpnnbmbnnmqpemfrf.nbesgtw--Smqbcpmsgmyrg--v.g
Smoyrlmqrlmgrmfesipmbyumepkfp gmsgw--Qbeespgmskmxtmk.fpesremsymbnnmgqp
 qbexmbyumbnnmgqpmapns sgtmsgmdscpkwmUpbemQbeespg!--Smlr.numyrgm qbydp
tr.maremgqpm npbepkg-qpbupu,mnrydpkg-ksdqgpu,mvpkg-z.udsydmapxbnp
vepbgqsydwmRq!mgqpm rnuypkkmrambmZbypmAbseabj!--Qbeespgmskmlregqmb
q.yuepumk. q--Byumarembmlsap--bmkpyksvnpmxby'kmlsap--sgmskmsycbn.bvnpwmS
xpygsrymyrmybxpk;mv.gmqbfftmgqpmxbymlqrm qbydpkmPxxbmaremQbeespg!”



 QBFGPEmJSC


XekwmPngrymlbkmasekgmkppymbgm q.e q:mv.gmgqr.dqmupcrgsrymxsdqgmvp
sygpee.fgpu,m .esrksgtm r.numyrgmvpmkbgskaspumvtmbmvesupmsymbmfpl,mbyu
sgmx.kgmvpmnpagmaremgqpmcsksgkmsymarexmlqs qmlpepmgqpymgrmvpmfbsu,mgr
kpggnpmlqpgqpemkqpmlpepmcpetmfepggtmsyuppu,mremryntmebgqpemfepggt,mre
yrgmfepggtmbgmbnnw

Pxxbmqbumappnsydk,mnpkkmram .esrksgtmgqbymramfesupmremferfespgt,mgrmxbop
qpemepkrncpmrymyrgmvpsydmgqpmnbkgmgrmfbtmqpemepkfp gk;mbyumkqpmxbupmb
frsygmramQbeespg'kmdrsydmlsgqmqpe,mgqbgmgqpmlrekgmramgqpmv.ksypkkmxsdqg
vpmdrypmgqer.dqmbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpw

Kqpm r.numyrgmpygpemgqpmqr.kpmbdbsy,m r.numyrgmvpmsymgqpmkbxpmerrxmgr
lqs qmkqpmqbumlsgqmk. qmcbsymbegsas pmepgepbgpumgqeppmxrygqkmbdr,mgr
nb pm.fmqpemvrrg,mlsgqr.gm_ep rnnp gsyd_wmBmgqr.kbyumcpjbgsr.kmgqr.dqgk
lr.numep .ewm rxfnsxpygk,m qbebupk,mbyumqreesvnpmvn.yupek;mbyumsgmlbk
yrgmgrmvpmk.ffrkpumgqbgmfrremQbeespgmkqr.numyrgmvpmep rnnp gsydmgrr;mv.g
kqpmvpqbcpumcpetmlpnn,mbyumlbkmryntmebgqpemfbnpmbyumksnpygwmGqpmcsksg
lbkmram r.ekpmkqreg;mbyumgqpepmlbkmkrmx. qmpxvbeebkkxpygmbyumr  .fbgsry
ramxsyumgrmkqregpymsg,mgqbgmPxxbmlr.numyrgmbnnrlmqpekpnampygsepntmgr
arexmbymrfsysrymramgqpmnbut,mbyumrymyrmb  r.ygmgrmdscpmryp,mvptryumgqp
yrgqsyd-xpbysydmgpexkmramvpsydm“pnpdbygntmuepkkpu,mbyumcpetmfnpbksydw”

KqpmusumyrgmepbnntmnsopmqpewmKqpmlr.numyrgmvpmsymbmq.eetmgrmasyumab.ng,
v.gmkqpmk.kfp gpumgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyrmpnpdby p;--pbkp,mv.gmyrgmpnpdby pw--
Kqpmlbkmbnxrkgmk.epmgqbgmarembmtr.ydmlrxby,mbmkgebydpe,mbmvesup,mgqpep
lbkmgrrmx. qmpbkpwmQpemfpekrymlbkmebgqpemdrru;mqpemab pmyrgm.yfepggt;
v.gmypsgqpemapbg.ep,myrembse,myremcrs p,myremxbyype,mlpepmpnpdbygwmPxxb
gqr.dqgmbgmnpbkgmsgmlr.numg.eymr.gmkrw

BkmaremXewmPngry,mqskmxbyypekmusumyrgmbffpbe--v.gmyr,mkqpmlr.numyrg
fpexsgmbmqbkgtmrembmlsggtmlreumaerxmqpekpnambvr.gmqskmxbyypekwmSgmlbkmby
blolbeum pepxrytmbgmbytmgsxpmgrmvpmep pscsydmlpuusydmcsksgk,mbyumbmxby
qbumyppumvpmbnnmdeb pmgrmb h.sgmqsxkpnamlpnnmgqer.dqmsgwmGqpmlrxby
lbkmvpggpemraa;mkqpmxsdqgmqbcpmgqpmbkkskgby pmramasypm nrgqpk,mbyumgqp
fescsnpdpmramvbkqa.nypkk,mv.gmgqpmxbymqbumryntmqskmrlymdrrumkpykpmgr
upfpyumry;mbyumlqpymkqpm ryksupepumqrlmfp .nsbentm.yn. otmfrremXew
Pngrymlbkmsymvpsydmsymgqpmkbxpmerrxmbgmry pmlsgqmgqpmlrxbymqpmqbumz.kg
xbeespu,mgqpmlrxbymqpmqbumlbygpumgrmxbeet,mbyumgqpmlrxbymlqrxmqpmqbu
vppympjfp gpumgrmxbeet,mkqpmx.kgmbnnrlmqsxmgrmqbcpmgqpmesdqgmgrmnrrombk
nsggnpmlskp,mbyumgrmvpmbkmx. qmbaap gpunt,mbyumbkmnsggnpmepbnntmpbktmbk
 r.numvpw

“Lpnn,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mkbsumQbeespg,mlqpymgqptmqbumh.sggpumgqp
qr.kp,mbyumbagpemlbsgsydmsymcbsymaremqpemaespyumgrmvpdsy;m“Lpnn,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,m(lsgqmbmdpygnpmksdq,)mlqbgmurmtr.mgqsyomramqpe?--Skmyrgmkqp
cpetm qbexsyd?”

GqpepmlbkmbmnsggnpmqpksgbgsrymsymPxxb'kmbyklpew

“Rq!mtpk--cpet--bmcpetmfnpbksydmtr.ydmlrxbyw”

“Smgqsyomqpemvpb.gsa.n,mh.sgpmvpb.gsa.nw”

“Cpetmys pntmuepkkpu,msyuppu;mbmepxbeobvntmpnpdbygmdrlyw”

“Smbxmyrgmbgmbnnmk.efesipumgqbgmqpmkqr.numqbcpmabnnpymsymnrcpw”

“Rq!myr--gqpepmskmyrgqsydmgrmk.efesipmrypmbgmbnnw--Bmfepggtmareg.yp;mbyu
kqpm bxpmsymqskmlbtw”

“Smubepmkbt,”mepg.eypumQbeespg,mksdqsydmbdbsy,m“Smubepmkbtmkqpmlbkmcpet
x. qmbggb qpumgrmqsxw”

“Fpeqbfkmkqpmxsdqg;mv.gmsgmskmyrgmpcpetmxby'kmabgpmgrmxbeetmgqpmlrxby
lqrmnrcpkmqsxmvpkgwmXskkmQblosykmfpeqbfkmlbygpumbmqrxp,mbyumgqr.dqgmgqsk
gqpmvpkgmraapemkqpmlbkmnsopntmgrmqbcpw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumQbeespgmpbeypkgnt,m“byumlpnnmkqpmxsdqg,myrvrutm r.numpcpe
qbcpmbmvpggpewmLpnn,mSmlskqmgqpxmqbfftmlsgqmbnnmxtmqpbegwmByumyrl,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomSmkqbnnmxsyumkppsydmgqpxmbdbsywmQpmskmz.kgmbk
k.fpesrembkmpcpe;--v.gmvpsydmxbeespu,mtr.moyrl,msgmskmh.sgpmbmusaapepyg
gqsydwmYr,msyuppu,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.myppumyrgmvpmbaebsu;mSm bymksgmbyu
buxsepmqsxmyrlmlsgqr.gmbytmdepbgmxskpetwmGrmoyrlmgqbgmqpmqbkmyrgmgqerly
qsxkpnamblbt,mskmk. qmbm rxareg!--Kqpmurpkmkppxmbm qbexsydmtr.ydmlrxby,
z.kgmlqbgmqpmupkpecpkwmQbfftm epbg.ep!mQpm bnnpumqpem'B.d.kgbw'mQrl
upnsdqga.n!”

Lqpymgqpmcsksgmlbkmepg.eypu,mPxxbmxbupm.fmqpemxsyuwmKqpm r.numgqpymkpp
xrepmbyumz.udpmvpggpewmAerxmQbeespg'kmqbffpysydmyrgmgrmvpmbgmQbegaspnu,
byumqpemabgqpe'kmvpsydmfepkpygmgrmpydbdpmXewmPngry,mkqpmqbumbmh.begpe
rambymqr.emramgqpmnbut'km rycpekbgsrymgrmqpekpna,mbyum r.num rxfrkpunt
bggpyumgrmqpe;mbyumgqpmh.begpemrambymqr.emh.sgpm rycsy pumqpemgqbg
XekwmPngrymlbkmbmcbsymlrxby,mpjgepxpntmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgqmqpekpna,mbyu
gqsyosydmx. qmramqpemrlymsxfregby p;mgqbgmkqpmxpbygmgrmkqsypmbyumvpmcpet
k.fpesre,mv.gmlsgqmxbyypekmlqs qmqbumvppymarexpumsymbmvbumk qrrn,mfpeg
byumabxsnsbe;mgqbgmbnnmqpemyrgsrykmlpepmueblymaerxmrypmkpgmramfprfnp,
byumrypmkgtnpmramnscsyd;mgqbgmsamyrgmarrnskqmkqpmlbkmsdyrebyg,mbyumgqbg
qpemkr spgtmlr.num pegbsyntmurmXewmPngrymyrmdrruw

Qbeespgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbmvpggpemxbg qwmSamyrgmlskpmremepasypumqpekpna,
kqpmlr.numqbcpm ryyp gpumqsxmlsgqmgqrkpmlqrmlpep;mv.gmXskkmQblosyk,msg
xsdqgmvpmabsentmk.ffrkpumaerxmqpempbktm ry psg,mqbumvppymgqpmvpkgmra
qpemrlymkpgwmGqpmes qmvergqpe-sy-nblmypbemVeskgrnmlbkmgqpmfesupmramgqp
bnnsby p,mbyumqskmfnb pmbyumqskm beesbdpkmlpepmgqpmfesupmramqsxw

Gqpmcpetmasekgmk.vzp gmbagpemvpsydmkpbgpumlbkmXbfnpmDercp,m“Xtmvergqpe
XewmK. onsyd'kmkpbg;”--bm rxfbeskrymramQbegaspnumgrmXbfnpmDercpwmGqp
der.yukmramQbegaspnumlpepmkxbnn,mv.gmypbgmbyumfepggt;mbyumgqpmqr.kpmlbk
xrupeymbyumlpnn-v.sngwmXekwmPngrymkppxpumxrkgmabcr.ebvntmsxfepkkpu
vtmgqpmksipmramgqpmerrx,mgqpmpygeby p,mbyumbnnmgqbgmkqpm r.numkppmre
sxbdsypwm“CpetmnsopmXbfnpmDercpmsyuppu!--Kqpmlbkmh.sgpmkge. omvtmgqp
nsopypkk!--Gqbgmerrxmlbkmgqpmcpetmkqbfpmbyumksipmramgqpmxreysyd-errx
bgmXbfnpmDercp;mqpemkskgpe'kmabcr.esgpmerrxw”--XewmPngrymlbkmbffpbnpu
grw--“Lbkmyrgmsgmbkgryskqsydntmnsop?--Kqpm r.numepbnntmbnxrkgmaby t
qpekpnambgmXbfnpmDercpw”

“Byumgqpmkgbse bkp--Tr.moyrl,mbkmSm bxpmsy,mSmrvkpecpumqrlmcpetmnsopmgqp
kgbse bkpmlbk;mfnb pumpjb gntmsymgqpmkbxpmfbegmramgqpmqr.kpwmSmepbnnt
 r.numyrgmqpnfmpj nbsxsyd!mSmbkk.epmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,msgmskmcpet
upnsdqga.nmgrmxp,mgrmvpmepxsyupumrambmfnb pmSmbxmkrmpjgepxpntmfbegsbnmgr
bkmXbfnpmDercpwmSmqbcpmkfpygmkrmxbytmqbfftmxrygqkmgqpep!m(lsgqmbmnsggnp
ksdqmramkpygsxpyg)wmBm qbexsydmfnb p,m.yur.vgpuntwmPcpetmvrutmlqr
kppkmsgmskmkge. omvtmsgkmvpb.gt;mv.gmgrmxp,msgmqbkmvppymh.sgpmbmqrxpw
Lqpypcpemtr.mbepmgebykfnbygpu,mnsopmxp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mlsnn
.yupekgbyumqrlmcpetmupnsdqga.nmsgmskmgrmxppgmlsgqmbytmgqsydmbgmbnnmnsop
lqbgmrypmqbkmnpagmvpqsyuwmSmbnlbtkmkbtmgqskmskmh.sgpmrypmramgqpmpcsnkmra
xbgesxrytw”

Pxxbmxbupmbkmknsdqgmbmepfntmbkmkqpm r.nu;mv.gmsgmlbkma.nntmk.aas spyg
aremXekwmPngry,mlqrmryntmlbygpumgrmvpmgbnosydmqpekpnaw

“KrmpjgepxpntmnsopmXbfnpmDercp!mByumsgmskmyrgmxpepntmgqpmqr.kp--gqp
der.yuk,mSmbkk.epmtr.,mbkmabembkmSm r.numrvkpecp,mbepmkgesosydntmnsopw
Gqpmnb.epnkmbgmXbfnpmDercpmbepmsymgqpmkbxpmfera.ksrymbkmqpep,mbyumkgbyu
cpetmx. qmsymgqpmkbxpmlbt--z.kgmb erkkmgqpmnbly;mbyumSmqbumbmdnsxfkp
rambmasypmnbedpmgepp,mlsgqmbmvpy qmer.yumsg,mlqs qmf.gmxpmkrmpjb gntmsy
xsyu!mXtmvergqpembyumkskgpemlsnnmvpmpy qbygpumlsgqmgqskmfnb pwmFprfnp
lqrmqbcpmpjgpykscpmder.yukmgqpxkpncpkmbepmbnlbtkmfnpbkpumlsgqmbytmgqsyd
symgqpmkbxpmkgtnpw”

Pxxbmur.vgpumgqpmge.gqmramgqskmkpygsxpygwmKqpmqbumbmdepbgmsupbmgqbg
fprfnpmlqrmqbumpjgpykscpmder.yukmgqpxkpncpkm bepumcpetmnsggnpmaremgqp
pjgpykscpmder.yukmrambytmvrutmpnkp;mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmlregqmlqsnpmgrmbggb o
bympeeremkrmur.vnp-utpu,mbyumgqpeparepmryntmkbsumsymepfnt,

“Lqpymtr.mqbcpmkppymxrepmramgqskm r.yget,mSmbxmbaebsumtr.mlsnnmgqsyomtr.
qbcpmrcpeebgpumQbegaspnuwmK.eetmskma.nnmramvpb.gspkw”

“Rq!mtpk,mSmbxmh.sgpmblbepmramgqbgwmSgmskmgqpmdbeupymramPydnbyu,mtr.
oyrlwmK.eetmskmgqpmdbeupymramPydnbyuw”

“Tpk;mv.gmlpmx.kgmyrgmepkgmr.em nbsxkmrymgqbgmuskgsy gsrywmXbyt
 r.ygspk,mSmvpnspcp,mbepm bnnpumgqpmdbeupymramPydnbyu,mbkmlpnnmbk
K.eetw”

“Yr,mSmaby tmyrg,”mepfnspumXekwmPngry,mlsgqmbmxrkgmkbgskaspumkxsnpw
“Smypcpemqpbeumbytm r.ygtmv.gmK.eetm bnnpumkrw”

Pxxbmlbkmksnpy puw

“Xtmvergqpembyumkskgpemqbcpmferxskpum.kmbmcsksgmsymgqpmkfesyd,mremk.xxpe
bgmabegqpkg,”m rygsy.pumXekwmPngry;m“byumgqbgmlsnnmvpmr.emgsxpmare
pjfnresydwmLqsnpmgqptmbepmlsgqm.k,mlpmkqbnnmpjfnrepmbmdepbgmupbn,mSmubep
kbtwmGqptmlsnnmqbcpmgqpsemvber. qp-nbyub.,mram r.ekp,mlqs qmqrnukmar.e
fpeap gnt;mbyumgqpeparep,mlsgqr.gmkbtsydmbytmgqsydmram_r.e_m beesbdp,
lpmkqr.numvpmbvnpmgrmpjfnrepmgqpmusaapepygmvpb.gspkmpjgepxpntmlpnnwmGqpt
lr.numqbeuntm rxpmsymgqpsem qbskp,mSmgqsyo,mbgmgqbgmkpbkrymramgqp
tpbewmSyuppu,mlqpymgqpmgsxpmueblkmry,mSmkqbnnmup supuntmep rxxpyumgqpse
vesydsydmgqpmvber. qp-nbyub.;msgmlsnnmvpmkrmcpetmx. qmfepapebvnpw
Lqpymfprfnpm rxpmsygrmbmvpb.gsa.nm r.ygetmramgqskmkreg,mtr.moyrl,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mrypmybg.ebnntmlskqpkmgqpxmgrmkppmbkmx. qmbkmfrkksvnp;mbyumXew
K. onsydmskmpjgepxpntmaryumrampjfnresydwmLpmpjfnrepumgrmOsyd'k-Lpkgry
gls pmnbkgmk.xxpe,msymgqbgmlbt,mxrkgmupnsdqga.nnt,mz.kgmbagpemgqpse
asekgmqbcsydmgqpmvber. qp-nbyub.wmTr.mqbcpmxbytmfbegspkmramgqbgmosyu
qpep,mSmk.ffrkp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mpcpetmk.xxpe?”

“Yr;myrgmsxxpusbgpntmqpepwmLpmbepmebgqpemr.gmramuskgby pmramgqpmcpet
kgesosydmvpb.gspkmlqs qmbggeb gmgqpmkregmramfbegspkmtr.mkfpbomra;mbyumlp
bepmbmcpetmh.spgmkpgmramfprfnp,mSmvpnspcp;mxrepmuskfrkpumgrmkgbtmbgmqrxp
gqbympydbdpmsymk qpxpkmramfnpbk.epw”

“Bq!mgqpepmskmyrgqsydmnsopmkgbtsydmbgmqrxpmaremepbnm rxaregwmYrvrutm by
vpmxrepmupcrgpumgrmqrxpmgqbymSmbxwmSmlbkmh.sgpmbmfercpevmaremsgmbgmXbfnp
DercpwmXbytmbmgsxpmqbkmKpnsybmkbsu,mlqpymkqpmqbkmvppymdrsydmgrmVeskgrn,
'Smepbnntm byyrgmdpgmgqskmdsenmgrmxrcpmaerxmgqpmqr.kpwmSmbvkrn.gpntmx.kg
drmsymvtmxtkpna,mgqr.dqmSmqbgpmvpsydmkg. om.fmsymgqpmvber. qp-nbyub.
lsgqr.gmbm rxfbysry;mv.gmB.d.kgb,mSmvpnspcp,mlsgqmqpemrlymdrru-lsnn,
lr.numypcpemkgsemvptryumgqpmfbeomfbnsydw'mXbytmbmgsxpmqbkmkqpmkbsumkr;
byumtpgmSmbxmyrmbucr bgpmarempygsepmkp n.ksrywmSmgqsyo,mrymgqpm rygebet,
lqpymfprfnpmkq.gmgqpxkpncpkm.fmpygsepntmaerxmkr spgt,msgmskmbmcpet
vbumgqsyd;mbyumgqbgmsgmskmx. qmxrepmbucskbvnpmgrmxsjmsymgqpmlrenumsy
bmferfpemupdepp,mlsgqr.gmnscsydmsymsgmpsgqpemgrrmx. qmremgrrmnsggnpwmS
fpeap gntm.yupekgbyumtr.emksg.bgsry,mqrlpcpe,mXskkmLrruqr.kp--(nrrosyd
grlbeukmXewmLrruqr.kp),mTr.emabgqpe'kmkgbgpmramqpbngqmx.kgmvpmbmdepbg
ueblvb owmLqtmurpkmyrgmqpmgetmVbgq?--Syuppumqpmkqr.nuwmNpgmxpmep rxxpyu
Vbgqmgrmtr.wmSmbkk.epmtr.mSmqbcpmyrmur.vgmramsgkmursydmXewmLrruqr.kp
drruw”

“Xtmabgqpemgespumsgmxrepmgqbymry p,marexpent;mv.gmlsgqr.gmep pscsydmbyt
vpypasg;mbyumXewmFpeet,mlqrkpmybxp,mSmubepmkbt,mskmyrgm.yoyrlymgrmtr.,
urpkmyrgm ry pscpmsgmlr.numvpmbgmbnnmxrepmnsopntmgrmvpm.kpa.nmyrlw”

“Bq!mgqbg'kmbmdepbgmfsgt;maremSmbkk.epmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqpepmgqp
lbgpekmurmbdepp,msgmskmh.sgpmlryupea.nmgqpmepnspamgqptmdscpwmSymxtmVbgq
nsap,mSmqbcpmkppymk. qmsykgby pkmramsg!mByumsgmskmkrm qppea.nmbmfnb p,
gqbgmsgm r.numyrgmabsnmramvpsydmram.kpmgrmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmkfsesgk,
lqs q,mSm.yupekgbyu,mbepmkrxpgsxpkmx. qmupfepkkpuwmByumbkmgrmsgk
ep rxxpyubgsrykmgrm_tr._,mSmaby tmSmyppumyrgmgbopmx. qmfbsykmgrmulpnn
rymgqpxwmGqpmbucbygbdpkmramVbgqmgrmgqpmtr.ydmbepmfepggtmdpypebnnt
.yupekgrruwmSgmlr.numvpmbm qbexsydmsygeru. gsrymaremtr.,mlqrmqbcpmnscpu
krmkp n.upumbmnsap;mbyumSm r.numsxxpusbgpntmkp .epmtr.mkrxpmramgqpmvpkg
kr spgtmsymgqpmfnb pwmBmnsypmaerxmxpmlr.numvesydmtr.mbmnsggnpmqrkgmra
b h.bsygby p;mbyumxtmfbegs .nbemaespyu,mXekwmFbegesudp,mgqpmnbutmSmqbcp
bnlbtkmepksupumlsgqmlqpymsymVbgq,mlr.numvpmxrkgmqbfftmgrmkqplmtr.mbyt
bggpygsryk,mbyumlr.numvpmgqpmcpetmfpekrymaremtr.mgrmdrmsygrmf.vns 
lsgqw”

Sgmlbkmbkmx. qmbkmPxxbm r.numvpbe,mlsgqr.gmvpsydmsxfrnsgpwmGqpmsupb
ramqpemvpsydmsyupvgpumgrmXekwmPngrymaremlqbgmlbkm bnnpumby
_sygeru. gsry_--ramqpemdrsydmsygrmf.vns m.yupemgqpmb.kfs pkmrambmaespyu
ramXekwmPngry'k--fervbvntmkrxpmc.ndbe,mubkqsydmlsurl,mlqr,mlsgqmgqp
qpnfmrambmvrbeupe,mz.kgmxbupmbmkqsagmgrmnscp!--GqpmusdysgtmramXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mramQbegaspnu,mlbkmk.yomsyuppu!

Kqpmepkgebsypumqpekpna,mqrlpcpe,maerxmbytmramgqpmepferrakmkqpm r.numqbcp
dscpy,mbyumryntmgqbyopumXekwmPngrym rrnnt;m“v.gmgqpsemdrsydmgrmVbgqmlbk
h.sgpmr.gmramgqpmh.pkgsry;mbyumkqpmlbkmyrgmfpeap gntm rycsy pumgqbg
gqpmfnb pmxsdqgmk.sgmqpemvpggpemgqbymqpemabgqpew”mByumgqpy,mgrmfepcpyg
abegqpemr.gebdpmbyumsyusdybgsry,m qbydpumgqpmk.vzp gmusep gntw

“Smurmyrgmbkomlqpgqpemtr.mbepmx.ks bn,mXekwmPngrywm.frymgqpkpmr  bksryk,
bmnbut'km qbeb gpemdpypebnntmfep pupkmqpe;mbyumQsdqv.etmqbkmnrydmoyrly
gqbgmtr.mbepmbmk.fpesremfpearexpew”

“Rq!myr,msyuppu;mSmx.kgmfergpkgmbdbsykgmbytmk. qmsupbwmBmk.fpesre
fpearexpe!--cpetmabemaerxmsg,mSmbkk.epmtr.wm ryksupemaerxmqrlmfbegsbn
bmh.begpemtr.emsyarexbgsrym bxpwmSmbxmurbgsydntmaryumra
x.ks --fbkksrybgpntmaryu;--byumxtmaespyukmkbtmSmbxmyrgmpygsepntmupcrsu
ramgbkgp;mv.gmbkmgrmbytmgqsydmpnkp,m.frymxtmqryr.emxtmfpearexby pmsk
_xpusr ep_mgrmgqpmnbkgmupdeppwmTr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mSmlpnnmoyrl,mfnbt
upnsdqga.nntwmSmbkk.epmtr.msgmqbkmvppymgqpmdepbgpkgmkbgskab gsry,
 rxareg,mbyumupnsdqgmgrmxp,mgrmqpbemlqbgmbmx.ks bnmkr spgtmSmbxmdrg
sygrwmSmbvkrn.gpntm byyrgmurmlsgqr.gmx.ks wmSgmskmbmyp pkkbetmramnsapmgr
xp;mbyumqbcsydmbnlbtkmvppym.kpumgrmbmcpetmx.ks bnmkr spgt,mvrgqmbg
XbfnpmDercpmbyumsymVbgq,msgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbmxrkgmkpesr.kmkb esas pwmS
qrypkgntmkbsumbkmx. qmgrmXewmPwmlqpymqpmlbkmkfpbosydmramxtma.g.ep
qrxp,mbyumpjfepkksydmqskmapbekmnpkgmgqpmepgsepxpygmramsgmkqr.numvp
uskbdeppbvnp;mbyumgqpmsyapesresgtmramgqpmqr.kpmgrr--oyrlsydmlqbgmSmqbu
vppymb  .kgrxpumgr--ram r.ekpmqpmlbkmyrgmlqrnntmlsgqr.gmbffepqpyksryw
Lqpymqpmlbkmkfpbosydmramsgmsymgqbgmlbt,mSmqrypkgntmkbsumgqbgm_gqp_
_lrenu_mSm r.numdscpm.f--fbegspk,mvbnnk,mfnbtk--aremSmqbumyrmapbemra
epgsepxpygwmVnpkkpumlsgqmkrmxbytmepkr.e pkmlsgqsymxtkpna,mgqpmlrenumlbk
yrgmyp pkkbetmgrm_xp_wmSm r.numurmcpetmlpnnmlsgqr.gmsgwmGrmgqrkpmlqrmqbu
yrmepkr.e pkmsgmlbkmbmusaapepygmgqsyd;mv.gmxtmepkr.e pkmxbupmxpmh.sgp
syupfpyupygwmByumbkmgrmkxbnnpe-ksipumerrxkmgqbymSmqbumvppym.kpumgr,mS
epbnntm r.numyrgmdscpmsgmbmgqr.dqgwmSmqrfpumSmlbkmfpeap gntmph.bnmgrmbyt
kb esas pmramgqbgmupk esfgsrywm pegbsyntmSmqbumvppymb  .kgrxpumgrmpcpet
n.j.etmbgmXbfnpmDercp;mv.gmSmusumbkk.epmqsxmgqbgmglrm beesbdpkmlpepmyrg
yp pkkbetmgrmxtmqbffsypkk,myremlpepmkfb sr.kmbfbegxpygkwm'V.g,'mkbsumS,
'grmvpmh.sgpmqrypkg,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomSm bymnscpmlsgqr.gmkrxpgqsydmramb
x.ks bnmkr spgtwmSm ryusgsrymaremyrgqsydmpnkp;mv.gmlsgqr.gmx.ks ,mnsap
lr.numvpmbmvnbyomgrmxpw'”

“Lpm byyrgmk.ffrkp,”mkbsumPxxb,mkxsnsyd,m“gqbgmXewmPngrymlr.numqpksgbgp
grmbkk.epmtr.mramgqpepmvpsydmbm_cpet_mx.ks bnmkr spgtmsymQsdqv.et;mbyu
Smqrfpmtr.mlsnnmyrgmasyumqpmqbkmr.gkgpffpumgqpmge.gqmxrepmgqbymxbtmvp
fbeurypu,msym ryksupebgsrymramgqpmxrgscpw”

“Yr,msyuppu,mSmqbcpmyrmur.vgkmbgmbnnmrymgqbgmqpbuwmSmbxmupnsdqgpumgr
asyumxtkpnamsymk. qmbm se npwmSmqrfpmlpmkqbnnmqbcpmxbytmklppgmnsggnp
 ry pegkmgrdpgqpewmSmgqsyo,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mbyumSmx.kgmpkgbvnskqmb
x.ks bnm n.v,mbyumqbcpmepd.nbemlppontmxppgsydkmbgmtr.emqr.kp,mremr.ekw
Lsnnmyrgmsgmvpmbmdrrumfnby?mSam_lp_mpjpegmr.ekpncpk,mSmgqsyomlpmkqbnn
yrgmvpmnrydmsymlbygmrambnnspkwmKrxpgqsydmramgqbgmybg.epmlr.numvp
fbegs .nbentmupksebvnpmarem_xp_,mbkmbymsyu. pxpygmgrmoppfmxpmsy
feb gs p;maremxbeespumlrxpy,mtr.moyrl--gqpepmskmbmkbumkgretmbdbsykg
gqpx,msymdpypebnwmGqptmbepmv.gmgrrmbfgmgrmdscpm.fmx.ks w”

“V.gmtr.,mlqrmbepmkrmpjgepxpntmaryumramsg--gqpepm bymvpmyrmubydpe,
k.epnt?”

“Smkqr.numqrfpmyrg;mv.gmepbnntmlqpymSmnrromber.yumbxrydmxtmb h.bsygby p,
SmgepxvnpwmKpnsybmqbkmpygsepntmdscpym.fmx.ks --ypcpemgr. qpkmgqp
sykge.xpyg--gqr.dqmkqpmfnbtpumklppgntwmByumgqpmkbxpmxbtmvpmkbsumramXekw
Zpaapeptk-- nbebmFbegesudp,mgqbgmlbk--byumramgqpmglrmXsnxbyk,myrlmXekw
VseumbyumXekwmZbxpkm rrfpe;mbyumramxrepmgqbymSm bympy.xpebgpwm.frymxt
lreumsgmskmpyr.dqmgrmf.gmrypmsymbmaesdqgwmSm.kpumgrmvpmh.sgpmbydetmlsgq
Kpnsyb;mv.gmepbnntmSmvpdsymyrlmgrm rxfepqpyumgqbgmbmxbeespumlrxbymqbk
xbytmgqsydkmgrm bnnmqpembggpygsrywmSmvpnspcpmSmlbkmqbnambymqr.emgqsk
xreysydmkq.gm.fmlsgqmxtmqr.kpoppfpew”

“V.gmpcpetmgqsydmramgqbgmosyu,”mkbsumPxxb,m“lsnnmkrrymvpmsymkrmepd.nbemb
gebsy--”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumXekwmPngry,mnb.dqsyd,m“lpmkqbnnmkppw”

Pxxb,masyusydmqpemkrmupgpexsypum.frymypdnp gsydmqpemx.ks ,mqbumyrgqsyd
xrepmgrmkbt;mbyu,mbagpembmxrxpyg'kmfb.kp,mXekwmPngrym qrkpmbyrgqpe
k.vzp gw

“Lpmqbcpmvppym bnnsydmbgmEbyubnnk,”mkbsumkqp,m“byumar.yumgqpxmvrgqmbg
qrxp;mbyumcpetmfnpbkbygmfprfnpmgqptmkppxmgrmvpwmSmnsopmgqpxmpjgepxpntw
XewmLpkgrymkppxkmbympj pnnpygm epbg.ep--h.sgpmbmasekg-ebgpmabcr.esgp
lsgqmxpmbnepbut,mSmbkk.epmtr.wmByum_kqp_mbffpbekmkrmge.ntmdrru--gqpepmsk
krxpgqsydmkrmxrgqpentmbyumosyu-qpbegpumbvr.gmqpe,mgqbgmsgmlsykm.frymryp
usep gntwmKqpmlbkmtr.emdrcpeypkk,mSmgqsyo?”

Pxxbmlbkmbnxrkgmgrrmx. qmbkgryskqpumgrmbyklpe;mv.gmXekwmPngrymqbeunt
lbsgpumaremgqpmbaasexbgscpmvparepmkqpmlpygmryw

“Qbcsydm.yupekgrrumbkmx. q,mSmlbkmebgqpembkgryskqpumgrmasyumqpemkrmcpet
nbut-nsop!mV.gmkqpmskmepbnntmh.sgpmgqpmdpygnplrxbyw”

“XekwmLpkgry'kmxbyypek,”mkbsumPxxb,m“lpepmbnlbtkmfbegs .nbentmdrruw
Gqpsemferfespgt,mksxfns sgt,mbyumpnpdby p,mlr.numxbopmgqpxmgqpmkbapkg
xrupnmarembytmtr.ydmlrxbyw”

“Byumlqrmurmtr.mgqsyom bxpmsymlqsnpmlpmlpepmgqpep?”

Pxxbmlbkmh.sgpmbgmbmnrkkwmGqpmgrypmsxfnspumkrxpmrnumb h.bsygby p--byu
qrlm r.numkqpmfrkksvntmd.pkk?

“Oysdqgnpt!”m rygsy.pumXekwmPngry;m“Oysdqgnptmqsxkpna!--Lbkmyrgmsg
n. ot?--are,myrgmvpsydmlsgqsymlqpymqpm bnnpumgqpmrgqpemubt,mSmqbumypcpe
kppymqsxmvparep;mbyumram r.ekp,mbkmkrmfbegs .nbembmaespyumramXewmPw'k,
Smqbumbmdepbgm .esrksgtwm'XtmaespyumOysdqgnpt'mqbumvppymkrmragpy
xpygsrypu,mgqbgmSmlbkmepbnntmsxfbgspygmgrmkppmqsx;mbyumSmx.kgmurmxt
 bermkfrkrmgqpmz.kgs pmgrmkbtmgqbgmqpmyppumyrgmvpmbkqbxpumramqskmaespyuw
Oysdqgnptmskmh.sgpmgqpmdpygnpxbywmSmnsopmqsxmcpetmx. qwmUp supunt,mS
gqsyo,mbmcpetmdpygnpxby-nsopmxbyw”

Qbffsnt,msgmlbkmyrlmgsxpmgrmvpmdrypwmGqptmlpepmraa;mbyumPxxbm r.nu
vepbgqpw

“Syk.aapebvnpmlrxby!”mlbkmqpemsxxpusbgpmpj nbxbgsrywm“LrekpmgqbymSmqbu
k.ffrkpuwmBvkrn.gpntmsyk.aapebvnp!mOysdqgnpt!--Sm r.numyrgmqbcp
vpnspcpumsgwmOysdqgnpt!--ypcpemkppymqsxmsymqpemnsapmvparep,mbyum bnn
qsxmOysdqgnpt!--byumusk rcpemgqbgmqpmskmbmdpygnpxby!mBmnsggnpm.fkgbeg,
c.ndbemvpsyd,mlsgqmqpemXewmPw,mbyumqpem_ ber_m_kfrkr_,mbyumqpe
epkr.e pk,mbyumbnnmqpembsekmramfpegmfepgpyksrymbyum.yupevepumasypetw
B g.bnntmgrmusk rcpemgqbgmXewmOysdqgnptmskmbmdpygnpxby!mSmur.vgmlqpgqpe
qpmlsnnmepg.eymgqpm rxfnsxpyg,mbyumusk rcpemqpemgrmvpmbmnbutwmSm r.nu
yrgmqbcpmvpnspcpumsg!mByumgrmferfrkpmgqbgmkqpmbyumSmkqr.num.ysgpmgr
arexmbmx.ks bnm n.v!mRypmlr.numaby tmlpmlpepmvrkrxmaespyuk!mByumXekw
Lpkgry!--Bkgryskqpumgqbgmgqpmfpekrymlqrmqbumver.dqgmxpm.fmkqr.numvpmb
dpygnplrxby!mLrekpmbyumlrekpwmSmypcpemxpgmlsgqmqpemph.bnwmX. qmvptryu
xtmqrfpkwmQbeespgmskmuskdeb pumvtmbytm rxfbeskrywmRq!mlqbgmlr.numAebyo
 q.e qsnnmkbtmgrmqpe,msamqpmlpepmqpep?mQrlmbydetmbyumqrlmuscpegpumqp
lr.numvp!mBq!mgqpepmSmbx--gqsyosydmramqsxmusep gntwmBnlbtkmgqpmasekg
fpekrymgrmvpmgqr.dqgmra!mQrlmSm bg qmxtkpnamr.g!mAebyom q.e qsnnm rxpk
bkmepd.nbentmsygrmxtmxsyu!”--

Bnnmgqskmebymkrmdnsvntmgqer.dqmqpemgqr.dqgk,mgqbgmvtmgqpmgsxpmqpemabgqpe
qbumbeebydpumqsxkpna,mbagpemgqpmv.kgnpmramgqpmPngryk'mupfbeg.ep,mbyumlbk
epbutmgrmkfpbo,mkqpmlbkmcpetmgrnpebvntm bfbvnpmrambggpyusydw

“Lpnn,mxtmupbe,”mqpmupnsvpebgpntmvpdby,m“ ryksupesydmlpmypcpemkblmqpe
vparep,mkqpmkppxkmbmcpetmfepggtmkregmramtr.ydmnbut;mbyumSmubepmkbtmkqp
lbkmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpumlsgqmtr.wmKqpmkfpbokmbmnsggnpmgrrmh.s owmBmnsggnp
h.s oypkkmramcrs pmgqpepmskmlqs qmebgqpemq.egkmgqpmpbewmV.gmSmvpnspcp
Smbxmys p;mSmurmyrgmnsopmkgebydpmcrs pk;mbyumyrvrutmkfpbokmnsopmtr.mbyu
frremXskkmGbtnrewmQrlpcpe,mkqpmkppxkmbmcpetmrvnsdsyd,mfepggt-vpqbcpu
tr.ydmnbut,mbyumyrmur.vgmlsnnmxbopmqsxmbmcpetmdrrumlsapwmGqr.dqmSmgqsyo
qpmqbumvpggpemyrgmqbcpmxbeespuwmSmxbupmgqpmvpkgmpj .kpkmSm r.numaremyrg
qbcsydmvppymbvnpmgrmlbsgmrymqsxmbyumXekwmPngrymrymgqskmqbfftmr  bksry;mS
kbsumgqbgmSmqrfpumSm_kqr.nu_msymgqpm r.ekpmramgqpmk.xxpewmV.gmSmr.dqgmgr
qbcpmdrypmvparepwmYrgmgrmlbsgm.frymbmvesupmskmcpetmepxskkwmBq!msgmkqplk
lqbgmbmkbumsycbnsumSmbx!mV.gmSmurmyrgmnsopmgqpm reypemsygrmCs bebdp
Nbypw”

“Smubepmkbtmtr.embfrnrdspkmlpepmb  pfgpu,mksewmXewmPngrymoyrlkmtr.w”

“Tpk:mv.gmbmtr.ydmnbut--bmvesup--Smr.dqgmgrmqbcpmfbsumxtmepkfp gkmgrmqpe
samfrkksvnpwmSgmlbkmvpsydmcpetmupas spygw”

“V.g,mxtmupbemfbfb,mtr.mbepmyrmaespyumgrmxbgesxryt;mbyumgqpeparepmlqt
kqr.numtr.mvpmkrmbyjsr.kmgrmfbtmtr.emepkfp gkmgrmbm_vesup_?mSgmr.dqgmgr
vpmyrmep rxxpyubgsrymgrm_tr._wmSgmskmpy r.ebdsydmfprfnpmgrmxbeetmsamtr.
xbopmkrmx. qmramgqpxw”

“Yr,mxtmupbe,mSmypcpempy r.ebdpumbytmvrutmgrmxbeet,mv.gmSmlr.numbnlbtk
lskqmgrmfbtmpcpetmferfpembggpygsrymgrmbmnbut--byumbmvesup,mpkfp sbnnt,
skmypcpemgrmvpmypdnp gpuwmXrepmskmbcrlpuntmu.pmgrm_qpe_wmBmvesup,mtr.
oyrl,mxtmupbe,mskmbnlbtkmgqpmasekgmsym rxfbyt,mnpgmgqpmrgqpekmvpmlqr
gqptmxbtw”

“Lpnn,mfbfb,msamgqskmskmyrgmpy r.ebdpxpygmgrmxbeet,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqbg
skwmByumSmkqr.numypcpemqbcpmpjfp gpumtr.mgrmvpmnpyusydmtr.emkby gsrymgr
k. qmcbysgt-vbsgkmaremfrremtr.ydmnbuspkw”

“Xtmupbe,mtr.murmyrgm.yupekgbyumxpwmGqskmskmbmxbggpemramxpep
 rxxrymfrnsgpypkkmbyumdrru-veppusyd,mbyumqbkmyrgqsydmgrmurmlsgqmbyt
py r.ebdpxpygmgrmfprfnpmgrmxbeetw”

PxxbmqbumurypwmQpemabgqpemlbkmderlsydmypecr.k,mbyum r.numyrgm.yupekgbyu
_qpe_wmQpemxsyumepg.eypumgrmXekwmPngry'kmraapy pk,mbyumnryd,mcpetmnryd,
usumgqptmr  .ftmqpew



 QBFGPEmJC


Pxxbmlbkmyrgmeph.sepu,mvtmbytmk.vkph.pygmusk rcpet,mgrmepgeb gmqpemsnn
rfsysrymramXekwmPngrywmQpemrvkpecbgsrymqbumvppymfepggtm reep gwmK. qmbk
XekwmPngrymbffpbepumgrmqpemrymgqskmkp ryumsygpecspl,mk. qmkqpmbffpbepu
lqpypcpemgqptmxpgmbdbsy,--kpna-sxfregbyg,mfepk.xsyd,mabxsnsbe,msdyrebyg,
byumsnn-vepuwmKqpmqbumbmnsggnpmvpb.gtmbyumbmnsggnpmb  rxfnskqxpyg,
v.gmkrmnsggnpmz.udxpygmgqbgmkqpmgqr.dqgmqpekpnam rxsydmlsgqmk.fpesre
oyrlnpudpmramgqpmlrenu,mgrmpynscpymbyumsxfercpmbm r.ygetmypsdqvr.eqrru;
byum ry pscpumXskkmQblosykmgrmqbcpmqpnumk. qmbmfnb pmsymkr spgtmbkmXekw
Pngry'km rykph.py pmryntm r.numk.efbkkw

Gqpepmlbkmyrmepbkrymgrmk.ffrkpmXewmPngrymgqr.dqgmbgmbnnmusaapepygntmaerx
qskmlsapwmQpmkppxpumyrgmxpepntmqbfftmlsgqmqpe,mv.gmfer.uwmQpmqbumgqpmbse
ram rydebg.nbgsydmqsxkpnamrymqbcsydmver.dqgmk. qmbmlrxbymgrmQsdqv.et,
bkmyrgmpcpymXskkmLrruqr.kpm r.numph.bn;mbyumgqpmdepbgpemfbegmramqpe
yplmb h.bsygby p,muskfrkpumgrm rxxpyu,mremyrgmsymgqpmqbvsgmramz.udsyd,
arnnrlsydmgqpmnpbumramXskkmVbgpk'kmdrru-lsnn,mremgbosydmsgmaremdebygpu
gqbgmgqpmvesupmx.kgmvpmbkm npcpembyumbkmbdeppbvnpmbkmkqpmferapkkpu
qpekpna,mlpepmcpetmlpnnmkbgskaspu;mkrmgqbgmXekwmPngry'kmfebskp
fbkkpumaerxmrypmxr.gqmgrmbyrgqpembkmsgmr.dqgmgrmur,m.ysxfpupumvtmXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mlqrmepbusntm rygsy.pumqpemasekgm rygesv.gsrymbyumgbnopumlsgq
bmdrrumdeb pmramqpemvpsydm“cpetmfnpbkbygmbyumcpetmpnpdbygntmuepkkpuw”

Symrypmepkfp gmXekwmPngrymdeplmpcpymlrekpmgqbymkqpmqbumbffpbepumbg
asekgwmQpemappnsydkmbngpepumgrlbeukmPxxbw--Raapyupu,mfervbvnt,mvtmgqp
nsggnpmpy r.ebdpxpygmlqs qmqpemferfrkbnkmramsygsxb tmxpgmlsgq,mkqpmuepl
vb omsymqpemg.eymbyumdebu.bnntmvp bxpmx. qmxrepm rnumbyumuskgbyg;mbyu
gqr.dqmgqpmpaap gmlbkmbdeppbvnp,mgqpmsnn-lsnnmlqs qmferu. pumsgmlbk
yp pkkbesntmsy epbksydmPxxb'kmusknsopwmQpemxbyypek,mgrr--byumXew
Pngry'k,mlpepm.yfnpbkbygmgrlbeukmQbeespgwmGqptmlpepmkyppesydmbyu
ypdnsdpygwmPxxbmqrfpumsgmx.kgmebfsuntmlreomQbeespg'km .ep;mv.gmgqp
kpykbgsrykmlqs qm r.numferxfgmk. qmvpqbcsr.emk.yomgqpxmvrgqmcpet
x. qw--Sgmlbkmyrgmgrmvpmur.vgpumgqbgmfrremQbeespg'kmbggb qxpygmqbumvppy
bymraapesydmgrm ryz.dbnm.yepkpecp,mbyumqpemrlymkqbepmsymgqpmkgret,m.yupe
bm rnr.esydmgqpmnpbkgmabcr.ebvnpmgrmqpembyumgqpmxrkgmkrrgqsydmgrmqsx,
qbumsymbnnmnsopnsqrrumvppymdscpymbnkrwmKqpmlbk,mram r.ekp,mgqpmrvzp g
ramgqpsemzrsygmusknsopw--Lqpymgqptmqbumyrgqsydmpnkpmgrmkbt,msgmx.kgmvp
bnlbtkmpbktmgrmvpdsymbv.ksydmXskkmLrruqr.kp;mbyumgqpmpyxsgtmlqs q
gqptmubepumyrgmkqplmsymrfpymuskepkfp gmgrmqpe,mar.yumbmverbupemcpygmsy
 rygpxfg.r.kmgepbgxpygmramQbeespgw

XekwmPngrymgrrombmdepbgmaby tmgrmZbypmAbseabj;mbyumaerxmgqpmasekgwmYrg
xpepntmlqpymbmkgbgpmramlbeabepmlsgqmrypmtr.ydmnbutmxsdqgmvpmk.ffrkpumgr
ep rxxpyumgqpmrgqpe,mv.gmaerxmgqpmcpetmasekg;mbyumkqpmlbkmyrgmkbgskaspu
lsgqmpjfepkksydmbmybg.ebnmbyumepbkrybvnpmbuxsebgsry--v.gmlsgqr.g
krns sgbgsry,mremfnpb,mremfescsnpdp,mkqpmx.kgmvpmlbygsydmgrmbkkskgmbyu
vpaespyumqpew--VparepmPxxbmqbumareapsgpumqpem ryasupy p,mbyumbvr.gmgqp
gqseumgsxpmramgqpsemxppgsyd,mkqpmqpbeumbnnmXekwmPngry'kmoysdqg-peebyget
rymgqpmk.vzp gw--

“ZbypmAbseabjmskmbvkrn.gpntm qbexsyd,mXskkmLrruqr.kpw--Smh.sgpmebcp
bvr.gmZbypmAbseabjw--Bmklppg,msygpepkgsydm epbg.epwmKrmxsnumbyu
nbutnsop--byumlsgqmk. qmgbnpygk!--Smbkk.epmtr.mSmgqsyomkqpmqbkmcpet
pjgebreusybetmgbnpygkwmSmurmyrgmk e.fnpmgrmkbtmgqbgmkqpmfnbtkmpjgepxpnt
lpnnwmSmoyrlmpyr.dqmramx.ks mgrmkfpbomup supuntmrymgqbgmfrsygwmRq!mkqp
skmbvkrn.gpntm qbexsyd!mTr.mlsnnmnb.dqmbgmxtmlbexgq--v.g,m.frymxtmlreu,
Smgbnomramyrgqsydmv.gmZbypmAbseabjw--Byumqpemksg.bgsrymskmkrm bn .nbgpu
grmbaap gmryp!--XskkmLrruqr.kp,mlpmx.kgmpjpegmr.ekpncpkmbyumpyupbcr.e
grmurmkrxpgqsydmaremqpewmLpmx.kgmvesydmqpemarelbeuwmK. qmgbnpygmbkmqpek
x.kgmyrgmvpmk.aapepumgrmepxbsym.yoyrlyw--Smubepmkbtmtr.mqbcpmqpbeumgqrkp
 qbexsydmnsypkmramgqpmfrpg,

mmmmmmmm'A.nnmxbytmbmanrlpemskmvreymgrmvn.kqm.ykppy,
mmmmmmmmmm'Byumlbkgpmsgkmaebdeby pmrymgqpmupkpegmbsew'

Lpmx.kgmyrgmbnnrlmgqpxmgrmvpmcpesaspumsymklppgmZbypmAbseabjw”

“Sm byyrgmgqsyomgqpepmskmbytmubydpemramsg,”mlbkmPxxb'km bnxmbyklpe--“byu
lqpymtr.mbepmvpggpemb h.bsygpumlsgqmXskkmAbseabj'kmksg.bgsrymbyu
.yupekgbyumlqbgmqpemqrxpmqbkmvppy,mlsgqm rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnn,mS
qbcpmyrmsupbmgqbgmtr.mlsnnmk.ffrkpmqpemgbnpygkm bymvpm.yoyrlyw”

“Rq!mv.gmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mkqpmskmyrlmsymk. qmepgsepxpyg,mk. q
rvk .esgt,mkrmgqerlymblbtw--Lqbgpcpembucbygbdpkmkqpmxbtmqbcpmpyzrtpu
lsgqmgqpm bxfvpnnkmbepmkrmfbnfbvntmbgmbympyu!mByumSmgqsyomkqpmappnkmsgw
Smbxmk.epmkqpmurpkwmKqpmskmcpetmgsxsumbyumksnpygwmRypm bymkppmgqbgmkqp
appnkmgqpmlbygmrampy r.ebdpxpygwmSmnsopmqpemgqpmvpggpemaremsgwmS
x.kgm ryapkkmsgmskmbmep rxxpyubgsrymgrmxpwmSmbxmbmdepbgmbucr bgpmare
gsxsusgt--byumSmbxmk.epmrypmurpkmyrgmragpymxppgmlsgqmsgw--V.gmsymgqrkp
lqrmbepmbgmbnnmsyapesre,msgmskmpjgepxpntmfepfrkkpkksydwmRq!mSmbkk.ep
tr.,mZbypmAbseabjmskmbmcpetmupnsdqga.nm qbeb gpe,mbyumsygpepkgkmxpmxrep
gqbymSm bympjfepkkw”

“Tr.mbffpbemgrmappnmbmdepbgmupbn--v.gmSmbxmyrgmblbepmqrlmtr.mrembytmra
XskkmAbseabj'kmb h.bsygby pmqpep,mbytmramgqrkpmlqrmqbcpmoyrlymqpemnrydpe
gqbymtr.ekpna,m bymkqplmqpembytmrgqpembggpygsrymgqby”--

“XtmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mbmcbkgmupbnmxbtmvpmurypmvtmgqrkpmlqrmubepmgr
b gwmTr.mbyumSmyppumyrgmvpmbaebsuwmSam_lp_mkpgmgqpmpjbxfnp,mxbytmlsnn
arnnrlmsgmbkmabembkmgqptm by;mgqr.dqmbnnmqbcpmyrgmr.emksg.bgsrykwm_Lp_
qbcpm beesbdpkmgrmapg qmbyum rycptmqpemqrxp,mbyum_lp_mnscpmsymbmkgtnp
lqs qm r.numyrgmxbopmgqpmbuusgsrymramZbypmAbseabj,mbgmbytmgsxp,mgqp
npbkgmsy rycpyspygw--Smkqr.numvpmpjgepxpntmuskfnpbkpumsamLesdqgmlpepmgr
kpyum.km.fmk. qmbmusyype,mbkm r.numxbopmxpmepdepgmqbcsydmbkopum_xrep_
gqbymZbypmAbseabjmgrmfbegbopmramsgwmSmqbcpmyrmsupbmramgqbgmkregmra
gqsydwmSgmskmyrgmnsopntmgqbgmSm_kqr.nu_,m ryksupesydmlqbgmSmqbcpmvppy
.kpumgrwmXtmdepbgpkgmubydpe,mfpeqbfk,msymqr.kpoppfsyd,mxbtmvpmh.sgpmgqp
rgqpemlbt,msymursydmgrrmx. q,mbyumvpsydmgrrm bepnpkkmrampjfpykpwmXbfnp
Dercpmlsnnmfervbvntmvpmxtmxrupnmxrepmgqbymsgmr.dqgmgrmvp--aremlpmurmyrg
bgmbnnmbaap gmgrmph.bnmxtmvergqpe,mXewmK. onsyd,msymsy rxpw--Qrlpcpe,mxt
epkrn.gsrymskmgbopymbkmgrmyrgs sydmZbypmAbseabjw--Smkqbnnm pegbsyntmqbcp
qpemcpetmragpymbgmxtmqr.kp,mkqbnnmsygeru. pmqpemlqpepcpemSm by,mkqbnn
qbcpmx.ks bnmfbegspkmgrmueblmr.gmqpemgbnpygk,mbyumkqbnnmvpm rykgbygnt
rymgqpmlbg qmarembympnsdsvnpmksg.bgsrywmXtmb h.bsygby pmskmkrmcpet
pjgpykscp,mgqbgmSmqbcpmnsggnpmur.vgmramqpbesydmramkrxpgqsydmgrmk.sg
qpemkqregntw--Smkqbnnmsygeru. pmqpe,mram r.ekp,mcpetmfbegs .nbentmgrmxt
vergqpembyumkskgpemlqpymgqptm rxpmgrm.kwmSmbxmk.epmgqptmlsnnmnsopmqpe
pjgepxpnt;mbyumlqpymkqpmdpgkmbmnsggnpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmgqpx,mqpemapbek
lsnnm rxfnpgpntmlpbemraa,maremgqpepmepbnntmskmyrgqsydmsymgqpmxbyypek
rampsgqpemv.gmlqbgmskmqsdqntm ry snsbgsydw--Smkqbnnmqbcpmqpemcpetmragpy
syuppumlqsnpmgqptmbepmlsgqmxp,mbyumSmubepmkbtmlpmkqbnnmkrxpgsxpkmasyumb
kpbgmaremqpemsymgqpmvber. qp-nbyub.msymkrxpmramr.empjfnresydmfbegspkw”

“FrremZbypmAbseabj!”--gqr.dqgmPxxbw--“Tr.mqbcpmyrgmupkpecpumgqskwmTr.
xbtmqbcpmurypmlerydmlsgqmepdbeumgrmXewmUsjry,mv.gmgqskmskmbmf.yskqxpyg
vptryumlqbgmtr.m bymqbcpmxpesgpu!--Gqpmosyuypkkmbyumfergp gsrymramXekw
Pngry!--'ZbypmAbseabjmbyumZbypmAbseabjw'mQpbcpyk!mNpgmxpmyrgmk.ffrkp
gqbgmkqpmubepkmdrmbvr.g,mPxxbmLrruqr.kp-sydmxp!--V.gm.frymxtmqryr.e,
gqpepmkppxkmyrmnsxsgkmgrmgqpmns pygsr.kypkkmramgqbgmlrxby'kmgryd.p!”

Pxxbmqbumyrgmgrmnskgpymgrmk. qmfbebusydkmbdbsy--grmbytmkrmpj n.kscpnt
buuepkkpumgrmqpekpna--krmuskd.kgsydntmup rebgpumlsgqmbm“upbemXskk
Lrruqr.kpw”mGqpm qbydpmrymXekwmPngry'kmksupmkrrymbagpelbeukmbffpbepu,
byumkqpmlbkmnpagmsymfpb p--ypsgqpemare pumgrmvpmgqpmcpetmfbegs .nbe
aespyumramXekwmPngry,myre,m.yupemXekwmPngry'kmd.suby p,mgqpmcpetmb gscp
fbgerypkkmramZbypmAbseabj,mbyumryntmkqbesydmlsgqmrgqpekmsymbmdpypebn
lbt,msymoyrlsydmlqbgmlbkmapng,mlqbgmlbkmxpusgbgpu,mlqbgmlbkmurypw

Kqpmnrropumrymlsgqmkrxpmbx.kpxpygw--XskkmVbgpk'kmdebgsg.upmare
XekwmPngry'kmbggpygsrykmgrmZbypmlbkmsymgqpmasekgmkgtnpmramd.snpnpkk
ksxfns sgtmbyumlbexgqwmKqpmlbkmh.sgpmrypmramqpemlregqspk--gqp
xrkgmbxsbvnp,mbaabvnp,mupnsdqga.nmlrxby--z.kgmbkmb  rxfnskqpumbyu
 ryupk pyusydmbkmXekwmPngrymxpbygmgrmvpm ryksupepuwmPxxb'kmryntmk.efesip
lbkmgqbgmZbypmAbseabjmkqr.numb  pfgmgqrkpmbggpygsrykmbyumgrnpebgpmXekw
PngrymbkmkqpmkppxpumgrmurwmKqpmqpbeumramqpemlbnosydmlsgqmgqpmPngryk,
ksggsydmlsgqmgqpmPngryk,mkfpyusydmbmubtmlsgqmgqpmPngryk!mGqskmlbk
bkgryskqsyd!--Kqpm r.numyrgmqbcpmvpnspcpumsgmfrkksvnpmgqbgmgqpmgbkgpmre
gqpmfesupmramXskkmAbseabjm r.numpyu.epmk. qmkr spgtmbyumaespyukqsfmbk
gqpmCs bebdpmqbumgrmraapew

“Kqpmskmbmesuunp,mh.sgpmbmesuunp!”mkbsumkqpw--“Grm q.kpmgrmepxbsymqpep
xrygqmbagpemxrygq,m.yupemfescbgsrykmrampcpetmkreg!mByumyrlmgrm q.kpmgqp
xregsas bgsrymramXekwmPngry'kmyrgs pmbyumgqpmfpy.etmramqpem rycpekbgsry,
ebgqpemgqbymepg.eymgrmgqpmk.fpesrem rxfbysrykmlqrmqbcpmbnlbtkmnrcpumqpe
lsgqmk. qmepbn,mdpyper.kmbaap gsryw”

Zbypmqbum rxpmgrmQsdqv.etmferapkkpuntmaremgqeppmxrygqk;mgqpm bxfvpnnk
lpepmdrypmgrmSepnbyumaremgqeppmxrygqk;mv.gmyrlmgqpm bxfvpnnkmqbu
ferxskpumgqpsemub.dqgpemgrmkgbtmbgmnpbkgmgsnnmXsuk.xxpe,mbyumaepkq
sycsgbgsrykmqbumbeescpumaremqpemgrmzrsymgqpxmgqpepwmB  reusydmgrmXskk
Vbgpk--sgmbnnm bxpmaerxmqpe--XekwmUsjrymqbumlesggpymxrkgmfepkksydntw
Lr.numZbypmv.gmdr,mxpbykmlpepmgrmvpmar.yu,mkpecbygkmkpyg,maespyuk
 rygescpu--yrmgebcpnnsydmusaas .ngtmbnnrlpumgrmpjskg;mv.gmkgsnnmkqpmqbu
up nsypumsg!

“Kqpmx.kgmqbcpmkrxpmxrgscp,mxrepmfrlpea.nmgqbymbffpbek,maremepa.ksyd
gqskmsycsgbgsry,”mlbkmPxxb'km ry n.ksrywm“Kqpmx.kgmvpm.yupemkrxpmkreg
ramfpyby p,msyans gpumpsgqpemvtmgqpm bxfvpnnkmremqpekpnawmGqpepmskmdepbg
apbe,mdepbgm b.gsry,mdepbgmepkrn.gsrymkrxplqpepw--Kqpmskm_yrg_mgrmvp
lsgqmgqpm_Usjryk_wmGqpmup eppmskmskk.pumvtmkrxpvrutwmV.gmlqtmx.kgmkqp
 rykpygmgrmvpmlsgqmgqpmPngryk?--Qpepmskmh.sgpmbmkpfbebgpmf.iinpw”

.frymqpemkfpbosydmqpemlryupembnr.umrymgqbgmfbegmramgqpmk.vzp g,mvparep
gqpmaplmlqrmoyplmqpemrfsysrymramXekwmPngry,mXekwmLpkgrymcpyg.epumgqsk
bfrnrdtmaremZbypw

“Lpm byyrgmk.ffrkpmgqbgmkqpmqbkmbytmdepbgmpyzrtxpygmbgmgqpmCs bebdp,
xtmupbemPxxb--v.gmsgmskmvpggpemgqbymvpsydmbnlbtkmbgmqrxpwmQpemb.ygmskmb
drrum epbg.ep,mv.g,mbkmbm rykgbygm rxfbysry,mx.kgmvpmcpetmgsepkrxpwmLp
x.kgm ryksupemlqbgmXskkmAbseabjmh.sgk,mvparepmlpm ryupxymqpemgbkgpmare
lqbgmkqpmdrpkmgrw”

“Tr.mbepmesdqg,mXekwmLpkgry,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptmlbexnt,m“XskkmAbseabj
skmbkm bfbvnpmbkmbytmram.kmramarexsydmbmz.kgmrfsysrymramXekwmPngryw
 r.numkqpmqbcpm qrkpymlsgqmlqrxmgrmbkkr sbgp,mkqpmlr.numyrgmqbcpm qrkpy
qpewmV.gm(lsgqmbmepferb qa.nmkxsnpmbgmPxxb)mkqpmep pscpkmbggpygsrykmaerx
XekwmPngry,mlqs qmyrvrutmpnkpmfbtkmqpew”

PxxbmapngmgqbgmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmdscsydmqpembmxrxpygbetmdnby p;mbyumkqp
lbkmqpekpnamkge. omvtmqskmlbexgqwmLsgqmbmabsygmvn.kq,mkqpmfepkpygnt
epfnspu,

“K. qmbggpygsrykmbkmXekwmPngry'k,mSmkqr.numqbcpmsxbdsypu,mlr.numebgqpe
uskd.kgmgqbymdebgsatmXskkmAbseabjwmXekwmPngry'kmsycsgbgsrykmSmkqr.nu
qbcpmsxbdsypumbytmgqsydmv.gmsycsgsydw”

“Smkqr.numyrgmlryupe,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgry,m“samXskkmAbseabjmlpepmgrmqbcp
vppymueblymrymvptryumqpemrlymsy nsybgsry,mvtmqpemb.yg'kmpbdpeypkkmsy
b  pfgsydmXekwmPngry'km scsnsgspkmaremqpewmFrremXskkmVbgpkmxbt
cpetmnsopntmqbcpm rxxsggpumqpemysp pmbyumq.eespumqpemsygrmbmdepbgpe
bffpbeby pmramsygsxb tmgqbymqpemrlymdrrumkpykpmlr.numqbcpmus gbgpu,msy
kfsgpmramgqpmcpetmybg.ebnmlskqmrambmnsggnpm qbydpw”

Vrgqmapngmebgqpembyjsr.kmgrmqpbemqsxmkfpbombdbsy;mbyumbagpembmapl
xsy.gpkmksnpy p,mqpmkbsu,

“Byrgqpemgqsydmx.kgmvpmgbopymsygrm ryksupebgsrymgrr--XekwmPngrymurpk
yrgmgbnom_gr_mXskkmAbseabjmbkmkqpmkfpbokm_ra_mqpewmLpmbnnmoyrlmgqp
usaapepy pmvpglppymgqpmferyr.ykmqpmremkqpmbyumgqr.,mgqpmfnbsypkgmkfropy
bxrydkgm.k;mlpmbnnmappnmgqpmsyan.py pmrambmkrxpgqsydmvptryum rxxry
 scsnsgtmsymr.emfpekrybnmsygpe r.ekpmlsgqmpb qmrgqpe--bmkrxpgqsydmxrep
pbentmsxfnbygpuwmLpm byyrgmdscpmbytmvrutmgqpmuskbdeppbvnpmqsygkmgqbgmlp
xbtmqbcpmvppymcpetma.nnmramgqpmqr.emvparepwmLpmappnmgqsydkmusaapepygntw
Byumvpksupkmgqpmrfpebgsrymramgqsk,mbkmbmdpypebnmfesy sfnp,mtr.mxbtmvp
k.epmgqbgmXskkmAbseabjmblpkmXekwmPngrymvtmqpemk.fpesresgtmvrgqmramxsyu
byumxbyype;mbyumgqbg,mab pmgrmab p,mXekwmPngrymgepbgkmqpemlsgqmbnnmgqp
epkfp gmlqs qmkqpmqbkmbm nbsxmgrwmK. qmbmlrxbymbkmZbypmAbseabjmfervbvnt
ypcpemapnnmsymXekwmPngry'kmlbtmvparep--byumyrmupdeppmramcbysgtm by
fepcpygmqpemb oyrlnpudsydmqpemrlym rxfbebgscpmnsggnpypkkmsymb gsry,msa
yrgmsym ryk sr.kypkkw”

“Smoyrlmqrlmqsdqntmtr.mgqsyomramZbypmAbseabj,”mkbsumPxxbwmNsggnpmQpyet
lbkmsymqpemgqr.dqgk,mbyumbmxsjg.epmrambnbexmbyumupns b tmxbupmqpe
seepkrn.gpmlqbgmpnkpmgrmkbtw

“Tpk,”mqpmepfnspu,m“bytmvrutmxbtmoyrlmqrlmqsdqntmSmgqsyomramqpew”

“Byumtpg,”mkbsumPxxb,mvpdsyysydmqbkgsntmbyumlsgqmbymbe qmnrro,mv.gmkrry
kgrffsyd--sgmlbkmvpggpe,mqrlpcpe,mgrmoyrlmgqpmlrekgmbgmry p--kqpmq.eespu
ry--“Byumtpg,mfpeqbfk,mtr.mxbtmqbeuntmvpmblbepmtr.ekpnamqrlmqsdqntmsg
skwmGqpmpjgpygmramtr.embuxsebgsrymxbtmgbopmtr.mvtmk.efesipmkrxpmubtmre
rgqpew”

XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmqbeumbgmlreom.frymgqpmnrlpemv.ggrykmramqskmgqs o
npbgqpemdbsgpek,mbyumpsgqpemgqpmpjpegsrymramdpggsydmgqpxmgrdpgqpe,mre
krxpmrgqpem b.kp,mver.dqgmgqpm rnr.emsygrmqskmab p,mbkmqpmbyklpepu,

“Rq!mbepmtr.mgqpep?--V.gmtr.mbepmxskpebvntmvpqsyuqbyuwmXewm rnpmdbcpmxp
bmqsygmramsgmksjmlppokmbdrw”

Qpmkgrffpuw--PxxbmapngmqpemarrgmfepkkpumvtmXekwmLpkgry,mbyumusumyrg
qpekpnamoyrlmlqbgmgrmgqsyowmSymbmxrxpygmqpmlpygmry--

“Gqbgmlsnnmypcpemvp,mqrlpcpe,mSm bymbkk.epmtr.wmXskkmAbseabj,mSmubep
kbt,mlr.numyrgmqbcpmxpmsamSmlpepmgrmbkomqpe--byumSmbxmcpetmk.epmSmkqbnn
ypcpembkomqpew”

Pxxbmepg.eypumqpemaespyu'kmfepkk.epmlsgqmsygpepkg;mbyumlbkmfnpbkpu
pyr.dqmgrmpj nbsx,

“Tr.mbepmyrgmcbsy,mXewmOysdqgnptwmSmlsnnmkbtmgqbgmaremtr.w”

Qpmkppxpumqbeuntmgrmqpbemqpe;mqpmlbkmgqr.dqga.n--byumsymbmxbyypemlqs q
kqplpumqsxmyrgmfnpbkpu,mkrrymbagpelbeukmkbsu,

“Krmtr.mqbcpmvppymkpggnsydmgqbgmSmkqr.numxbeetmZbypmAbseabj?”

“YrmsyuppumSmqbcpmyrgwmTr.mqbcpmk rnupumxpmgrrmx. qmaremxbg q-xbosyd,
aremxpmgrmfepk.xpmgrmgbopmk. qmbmnsvpegtmlsgqmtr.wmLqbgmSmkbsumz.kgmyrl,
xpbygmyrgqsydwmRypmkbtkmgqrkpmkregmramgqsydk,mram r.ekp,mlsgqr.gmbyt
supbmrambmkpesr.kmxpbysydwmRq!myr,m.frymxtmlreumSmqbcpmyrgmgqpmkxbnnpkg
lskqmaremtr.emxbeetsydmZbypmAbseabjmremZbypmbytmvrutwmTr.mlr.numyrgm rxp
symbyumksgmlsgqm.kmsymgqskm rxaregbvnpmlbt,msamtr.mlpepmxbeespuw”

XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmgqr.dqga.nmbdbsywmGqpmepk.ngmramqskmepcpespmlbk,m“Yr,
Pxxb,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomgqpmpjgpygmramxtmbuxsebgsrymaremqpemlsnnmpcpemgbop
xpmvtmk.efesipw--Smypcpemqbumbmgqr.dqgmramqpemsymgqbgmlbt,mSmbkk.ep
tr.w”mByumkrrymbagpelbeuk,m“ZbypmAbseabjmskmbmcpetm qbexsydmtr.yd
lrxby--v.gmyrgmpcpymZbypmAbseabjmskmfpeap gwmKqpmqbkmbmab.ngwmKqpmqbk
yrgmgqpmrfpymgpxfpemlqs qmbmxbymlr.numlskqmaremsymbmlsapw”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmv.gmepzrs pmgrmqpbemgqbgmkqpmqbumbmab.ngwm“Lpnn,”mkbsu
kqp,m“byumtr.mkrrymksnpy pumXewm rnp,mSmk.ffrkp?”

“Tpk,mcpetmkrrywmQpmdbcpmxpmbmh.spgmqsyg;mSmgrnumqsxmqpmlbkmxskgbopy;
qpmbkopumxtmfbeurymbyumkbsumyrmxrepwm rnpmurpkmyrgmlbygmgrmvpmlskpemre
lsggspemgqbymqskmypsdqvr.ekw”

“Symgqbgmepkfp gmqrlm.ynsopmupbemXekwmPngry,mlqrmlbygkmgrmvpmlskpembyu
lsggspemgqbymbnnmgqpmlrenu!mSmlryupemqrlmkqpmkfpbokmramgqpm rnpk--lqbg
kqpm bnnkmgqpx!mQrlm bymkqpmasyumbytmbffpnnbgsrymaremgqpx,muppfmpyr.dq
symabxsnsbemc.ndbesgt?mKqpm bnnkmtr.,mOysdqgnpt--lqbgm bymkqpmurmare
Xewm rnp?mByumkrmSmbxmyrgmgrmvpmk.efesipumgqbgmZbypmAbseabjmb  pfgk
qpem scsnsgspkmbyum rykpygkmgrmvpmlsgqmqpewmXekwmLpkgry,mtr.embed.xpyg
lpsdqkmxrkgmlsgqmxpwmSm bymx. qmxrepmepbusntmpygpemsygrmgqpmgpxfgbgsry
ramdpggsydmblbtmaerxmXskkmVbgpk,mgqbymSm bymvpnspcpmsymgqpmges.xfqmra
XskkmAbseabj'kmxsyumrcpemXekwmPngrywmSmqbcpmyrmabsgqmsymXekwmPngry'k
b oyrlnpudsydmqpekpnamgqpmsyapesremsymgqr.dqg,mlreu,mremuppu;mremsymqpe
vpsydm.yupembytmepkgebsygmvptryumqpemrlymk bygtme.npmramdrru-veppusydw
Sm byyrgmsxbdsypmgqbgmkqpmlsnnmyrgmvpm rygsy.bnntmsyk.ngsydmqpemcsksgre
lsgqmfebskp,mpy r.ebdpxpyg,mbyumraapekmramkpecs p;mgqbgmkqpmlsnnmyrgmvp
 rygsy.bnntmupgbsnsydmqpemxbdysas pygmsygpygsryk,maerxmgqpmfer .esydmqpe
bmfpexbypygmksg.bgsrymgrmgqpmsy n.usydmqpemsymgqrkpmupnsdqga.nmpjfnresyd
fbegspkmlqs qmbepmgrmgbopmfnb pmsymgqpmvber. qp-nbyub.w”

“ZbypmAbseabjmqbkmappnsyd,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnpt--“Smurmyrgmb  .kpmqpe
ramlbygmramappnsydwmQpemkpyksvsnsgspk,mSmk.kfp g,mbepmkgeryd--byumqpe
gpxfpempj pnnpygmsymsgkmfrlpemramarevpbeby p,mfbgspy p,mkpna- rygern;
v.gmsgmlbygkmrfpyypkkwmKqpmskmepkpecpu,mxrepmepkpecpu,mSmgqsyo,mgqby
kqpm.kpumgrmvp--ByumSmnrcpmbymrfpymgpxfpewmYr--gsnnm rnpmbnn.upumgrmxt
k.ffrkpumbggb qxpyg,msgmqbumypcpempygpepumxtmqpbuwmSmkblmZbypmAbseabj
byum rycpekpumlsgqmqpe,mlsgqmbuxsebgsrymbyumfnpbk.epmbnlbtk--v.gmlsgqmyr
gqr.dqgmvptryuw”

“Lpnn,mXekwmLpkgry,”mkbsumPxxbmges.xfqbygntmlqpymqpmnpagmgqpx,m“lqbgmur
tr.mkbtmyrlmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt'kmxbeetsydmZbypmAbseabj?”

“Lqt,mepbnnt,mupbemPxxb,mSmkbtmgqbgmqpmskmkrmcpetmx. qmr  .fspumvtmgqp
supbmram_yrg_mvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpe,mgqbgmSmkqr.numyrgmlryupemsamsg
lpepmgrmpyumsymqskmvpsydmkrmbgmnbkgwmUrmyrgmvpbgmxpw”



 QBFGPEmJCS


Pcpetmvrutmsymbyumbvr.gmQsdqv.etmlqrmqbumpcpemcsksgpumXewmPngry,mlbk
uskfrkpumgrmfbtmqsxmbggpygsrymrymqskmxbeesbdpwmUsyype-fbegspkmbyu
pcpysyd-fbegspkmlpepmxbupmaremqsxmbyumqskmnbut;mbyumsycsgbgsrykmanrlpu
symkrmabkgmgqbgmkqpmqbumkrrymgqpmfnpbk.epmrambffepqpyusydmgqptmlpep
ypcpemgrmqbcpmbmuskpydbdpumubtw

“Smkppmqrlmsgmsk,”mkbsumkqpwm“SmkppmlqbgmbmnsapmSmbxmgrmnpbumbxrydmtr.w
.frymxtmlreumlpmkqbnnmvpmbvkrn.gpntmuskksfbgpuwmLpmepbnntmkppxmh.sgp
gqpmabkqsrywmSamgqskmskmnscsydmsymgqpm r.yget,msgmskmyrgqsydmcpet
arexsubvnpwmAerxmXryubtmypjgmgrmKbg.eubt,mSmbkk.epmtr.mlpmqbcpmyrgmb
uskpydbdpumubt!--Bmlrxbymlsgqmaplpemepkr.e pkmgqbymSmqbcp,myppumyrgmqbcp
vppymbgmbmnrkkw”

Yrmsycsgbgsrym bxpmbxskkmgrmqpewmQpemVbgqmqbvsgkmxbupmpcpysyd-fbegspk
fpeap gntmybg.ebnmgrmqpe,mbyumXbfnpmDercpmqbumdscpymqpembmgbkgpmare
usyypekwmKqpmlbkmbmnsggnpmkqr opumbgmgqpmlbygmramglrmueblsydmerrxk,mbg
gqpmfrrembggpxfgmbgmer.g- bopk,mbyumgqpepmvpsydmyrms pmsymgqpmQsdqv.et
 beu-fbegspkwmXekwmVbgpk,mXekwmFpeet,mXekwmDruubeumbyumrgqpek,mlpepmb
drrumupbnmvpqsyu-qbyumsymoyrlnpudpmramgqpmlrenu,mv.gmkqpmlr.numkrrymkqpl
gqpxmqrlmpcpetmgqsydmr.dqgmgrmvpmbeebydpuwmSymgqpm r.ekpmramgqpmkfesyd
kqpmx.kgmepg.eymgqpsem scsnsgspkmvtmrypmcpetmk.fpesremfbegt--symlqs q
qpem beu-gbvnpkmkqr.numvpmkpgmr.gmlsgqmgqpsemkpfbebgpm byunpkmbyu
.yveropymfb okmsymgqpmge.pmkgtnp--byumxrepmlbsgpekmpydbdpumaremgqp
pcpysydmgqbymgqpsemrlympkgbvnskqxpygm r.numa.eyskq,mgrm beetmer.yumgqp
epaepkqxpygkmbgmpjb gntmgqpmferfpemqr.e,mbyumsymgqpmferfpemreupew

Pxxb,msymgqpmxpbylqsnp,m r.numyrgmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqr.gmbmusyypembg
QbegaspnumaremgqpmPngrykwmGqptmx.kgmyrgmurmnpkkmgqbymrgqpek,mremkqp
kqr.numvpmpjfrkpumgrmrusr.kmk.kfs sryk,mbyumsxbdsypum bfbvnpmramfsgsa.n
epkpygxpygwmBmusyypemgqpepmx.kgmvpwmBagpemPxxbmqbumgbnopumbvr.gmsgmare
gpymxsy.gpk,mXewmLrruqr.kpmapngmyrm.ylsnnsydypkk,mbyumryntmxbupmgqp
.k.bnmkgsf.nbgsrymramyrgmksggsydmbgmgqpmvrggrxmramgqpmgbvnpmqsxkpna,
lsgqmgqpm.k.bnmepd.nbemusaas .ngtmramup susydmlqrmkqr.numurmsgmaremqsxw

Gqpmfpekrykmgrmvpmsycsgpu,meph.sepumnsggnpmgqr.dqgwmVpksupkmgqp
Pngryk,msgmx.kgmvpmgqpmLpkgrykmbyumXewmOysdqgnpt;mkrmabemsgmlbkmbnnmra
 r.ekp--byumsgmlbkmqbeuntmnpkkmsypcsgbvnpmgqbgmfrremnsggnpmQbeespgmx.kg
vpmbkopumgrmxbopmgqpmpsdqgq:--v.gmgqskmsycsgbgsrymlbkmyrgmdscpymlsgq
ph.bnmkbgskab gsry,mbyumrymxbytmb  r.ygkmPxxbmlbkmfbegs .nbentmfnpbkpu
vtmQbeespg'kmvpddsydmgrmvpmbnnrlpumgrmup nsypmsgwm“Kqpmlr.numebgqpemyrg
vpmsymqskm rxfbytmxrepmgqbymkqpm r.numqpnfwmKqpmlbkmyrgmtpgmh.sgp
bvnpmgrmkppmqsxmbyumqskm qbexsydmqbfftmlsapmgrdpgqpe,mlsgqr.gmappnsyd
.y rxaregbvnpwmSamXskkmLrruqr.kpmlr.numyrgmvpmuskfnpbkpu,mkqpmlr.nu
ebgqpemkgbtmbgmqrxpw”mSgmlbkmfep skpntmlqbgmPxxbmlr.numqbcpmlskqpu,mqbu
kqpmuppxpumsgmfrkksvnpmpyr.dqmaremlskqsydwmKqpmlbkmupnsdqgpumlsgqmgqp
aregsg.upmramqpemnsggnpmaespyu--aremaregsg.upmkqpmoyplmsgmlbkmsymqpemgr
dscpm.fmvpsydmsym rxfbytmbyumkgbtmbgmqrxp;mbyumkqpm r.numyrlmsycsgpmgqp
cpetmfpekrymlqrxmkqpmepbnntmlbygpumgrmxbopmgqpmpsdqgq,mZbypmAbseabjw--
Ksy pmqpemnbkgm rycpekbgsrymlsgqmXekwmLpkgrymbyumXewmOysdqgnpt,mkqp
lbkmxrepm ryk spy p-kges opymbvr.gmZbypmAbseabjmgqbymkqpmqbumragpy
vppyw--XewmOysdqgnpt'kmlreukmulpngmlsgqmqpewmQpmqbumkbsumgqbgmZbyp
Abseabjmep pscpumbggpygsrykmaerxmXekwmPngrymlqs qmyrvrutmpnkpmfbsumqpew

“Gqskmskmcpetmge.p,”mkbsumkqp,m“bgmnpbkgmbkmabembkmepnbgpkmgrmxp,mlqs q
lbkmbnnmgqbgmlbkmxpbyg--byumsgmskmcpetmkqbxpa.nw--Ramgqpmkbxpmbdp--byu
bnlbtkmoyrlsydmqpe--Smr.dqgmgrmqbcpmvppymxrepmqpemaespyuw--Kqpmlsnn
ypcpemnsopmxpmyrlwmSmqbcpmypdnp gpumqpemgrrmnrydwmV.gmSmlsnnmkqplmqpe
depbgpembggpygsrymgqbymSmqbcpmurypw”

Pcpetmsycsgbgsrymlbkmk.  pkka.nwmGqptmlpepmbnnmuskpydbdpumbyumbnn
qbfftw--Gqpmfepfbebgretmsygpepkgmramgqskmusyype,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmyrgmtpg
rcpewmBm se .xkgby pmebgqpem.yn. otmr  .eepuwmGqpmglrmpnupkgmnsggnp
Oysdqgnptkmlpepmpydbdpumgrmfbtmgqpsemdebyufbfbmbyumb.ygmbmcsksgmramkrxp
lppokmsymgqpmkfesyd,mbyumgqpsemfbfbmyrlmferfrkpumvesydsydmgqpx,mbyu
kgbtsydmrypmlqrnpmubtmbgmQbegaspnu--lqs qmrypmubtmlr.numvpmgqpmcpetmubt
ramgqskmfbegtw--Qskmferapkksrybnmpydbdpxpygkmusumyrgmbnnrlmramqskmvpsyd
f.gmraa,mv.gmvrgqmabgqpembyumub.dqgpemlpepmuskg.evpumvtmsgkmqbffpysyd
krwmXewmLrruqr.kpm ryksupepumpsdqgmfpekrykmbgmusyypemgrdpgqpembkmgqp
.gxrkgmgqbgmqskmypecpkm r.numvpbe--byumqpepmlr.numvpmbmysygq--byumPxxb
bffepqpyupumgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmbmysygqmcpetmx. qmr.gmramq.xr.embgmyrg
vpsydmbvnpmgrm rxpmpcpymgrmQbegaspnumaremaregt-psdqgmqr.ekmlsgqr.g
abnnsydmsymlsgqmbmusyype-fbegtw

Kqpm rxaregpumqpemabgqpemvpggpemgqbymkqpm r.num rxaregmqpekpna,mvt
epfepkpygsydmgqbgmgqr.dqmqpm pegbsyntmlr.numxbopmgqpxmysyp,mtpg
qpmbnlbtkmkbsumkrmnsggnp,mgqbgmgqpmsy epbkpmramyrskpmlr.numvpmcpet
sxxbgpesbnwmKqpmgqr.dqgmsgmsymepbnsgtmbmkbumpj qbydpmaremqpekpna,mgr
qbcpmqsxmlsgqmqskmdebcpmnrrokmbyumepn. gbygm rycpekbgsrymrffrkpumgrmqpe
sykgpbumramqskmvergqpew

Gqpmpcpygmlbkmxrepmabcr.ebvnpmgrmXewmLrruqr.kpmgqbymgrmPxxbwmZrqy
Oysdqgnptm bxp;mv.gmXewmLpkgrymlbkm.ypjfp gpuntmk.xxrypumgrmgrlymbyu
x.kgmvpmbvkpygmrymgqpmcpetmubtwmQpmxsdqgmvpmbvnpmgrmzrsymgqpxmsymgqp
pcpysyd,mv.gm pegbsyntmyrgmgrmusyypewmXewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmh.sgpmbgmpbkp;
byumgqpmkppsydmqsxmkr,mlsgqmgqpmbeescbnmramgqpmnsggnpmvrtkmbyumgqp
fqsnrkrfqs m rxfrk.epmramqpemvergqpemrymqpbesydmqskmabgp,mepxrcpumgqp
 qspamrampcpymPxxb'kmcpjbgsryw

Gqpmubtm bxp,mgqpmfbegtmlpepmf.y g.bnntmbkkpxvnpu,mbyumXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnptmkppxpumpbentmgrmupcrgpmqsxkpnamgrmgqpmv.ksypkkmramvpsyd
bdeppbvnpwmSykgpbumramueblsydmqskmvergqpemraamgrmbmlsyurlmlqsnpmgqpt
lbsgpumaremusyype,mqpmlbkmgbnosydmgrmXskkmAbseabjwmXekwmPngry,
bkmpnpdbygmbkmnb pmbyumfpbenkm r.numxbopmqpe,mqpmnrropumbgmsy
ksnpy p--lbygsydmryntmgrmrvkpecpmpyr.dqmaremSkbvpnnb'kmsyarexbgsry--v.g
XskkmAbseabjmlbkmbymrnumb h.bsygby pmbyumbmh.spgmdsen,mbyumqpm r.numgbno
grmqpewmQpmqbumxpgmqpemvparepmvepboabkgmbkmqpmlbkmepg.eysydmaerxmbmlbno
lsgqmqskmnsggnpmvrtk,mlqpymsgmqbumvppymz.kgmvpdsyysydmgrmebsywmSgmlbk
ybg.ebnmgrmqbcpmkrxpm scsnmqrfpkmrymgqpmk.vzp g,mbyumqpmkbsu,

“Smqrfpmtr.musumyrgmcpyg.epmabe,mXskkmAbseabj,mgqskmxreysyd,mremSmbx
k.epmtr.mx.kgmqbcpmvppymlpgw--Lpmk be pntmdrgmqrxpmsymgsxpwmSmqrfpmtr.
g.eypumusep gntw”

“Smlpygmryntmgrmgqpmfrkg-raas p,”mkbsumkqp,m“byumepb qpumqrxpmvparepmgqp
ebsymlbkmx. qwmSgmskmxtmubsntmpeebyuwmSmbnlbtkmapg qmgqpmnpggpekmlqpy
SmbxmqpepwmSgmkbcpkmger.vnp,mbyumskmbmkrxpgqsydmgrmdpgmxpmr.gwmBmlbno
vparepmvepboabkgmurpkmxpmdrruw”

“Yrgmbmlbnomsymgqpmebsy,mSmkqr.numsxbdsypw”

“Yr,mv.gmsgmusumyrgmbvkrn.gpntmebsymlqpymSmkpgmr.gw”

XewmZrqymOysdqgnptmkxsnpu,mbyumepfnspu,

“Gqbgmskmgrmkbt,mtr.m qrkpmgrmqbcpmtr.emlbno,maremtr.mlpepmyrgmksjmtbeuk
aerxmtr.emrlymurremlqpymSmqbumgqpmfnpbk.epmramxppgsydmtr.;mbyumQpyet
byumZrqymqbumkppymxrepmuerfkmgqbymgqptm r.num r.ygmnrydmvparepwmGqp
frkg-raas pmqbkmbmdepbgm qbexmbgmrypmfpesrumramr.emnscpkwmLqpymtr.mqbcp
nscpumgrmxtmbdp,mtr.mlsnnmvpdsymgrmgqsyomnpggpekmbepmypcpemlregqmdrsyd
gqer.dqmgqpmebsymarew”

Gqpepmlbkmbmnsggnpmvn.kq,mbyumgqpymgqskmbyklpe,

“Smx.kgmyrgmqrfpmgrmvpmpcpemksg.bgpumbkmtr.mbep,msymgqpmxsukgmrampcpet
upbepkgm ryypjsry,mbyumgqpeparepmSm byyrgmpjfp gmgqbgmksxfntmderlsyd
rnupemkqr.numxbopmxpmsyusaapepygmbvr.gmnpggpekw”

“Syusaapepyg!mRq!myr--Smypcpem ry pscpumtr.m r.numvp rxpmsyusaapepygw
Npggpekmbepmyrmxbggpemramsyusaapepy p;mgqptmbepmdpypebnntmbmcpet
frksgscpm .ekpw”

“Tr.mbepmkfpbosydmramnpggpekmramv.ksypkk;mxsypmbepmnpggpekmra
aespyukqsfw”

“Smqbcpmragpymgqr.dqgmgqpxmgqpmlrekgmramgqpmglr,”mepfnspumqpm rrnntw
“V.ksypkk,mtr.moyrl,mxbtmvesydmxrypt,mv.gmaespyukqsfmqbeuntmpcpemurpkw”

“Bq!mtr.mbepmyrgmkpesr.kmyrlwmSmoyrlmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmgrrmlpnn--Smbx
cpetmk.epmqpm.yupekgbyukmgqpmcbn.pmramaespyukqsfmbkmlpnnmbkmbytmvrutwmS
 bympbksntmvpnspcpmgqbgmnpggpekmbepmcpetmnsggnpmgrmtr.,mx. qmnpkkmgqby
grmxp,mv.gmsgmskmyrgmtr.emvpsydmgpymtpbekmrnupemgqbymxtkpnamlqs q
xbopkmgqpmusaapepy p,msgmskmyrgmbdp,mv.gmksg.bgsrywmTr.mqbcpmpcpet
vrutmupbepkgmgrmtr.mbnlbtkmbgmqbyu,mS,mfervbvnt,mypcpemkqbnnmbdbsy;
byumgqpeparepmgsnnmSmqbcpmr.gnscpumbnnmxtmbaap gsryk,mbmfrkg-raas p,
Smgqsyo,mx.kgmbnlbtkmqbcpmfrlpemgrmueblmxpmr.g,msymlrekpmlpbgqpemgqby
gr-ubtw”

“LqpymSmgbnopumramtr.emvpsydmbngpepumvtmgsxp,mvtmgqpmferdepkkmramtpbek,”
mkbsumZrqymOysdqgnpt,m“Smxpbygmgrmsxfntmgqpm qbydpmramksg.bgsrymlqs q
gsxpm.k.bnntmvesydkwmSm ryksupemrypmbkmsy n.usydmgqpmrgqpewmGsxpmlsnn
dpypebnntmnpkkpymgqpmsygpepkgmrampcpetmbggb qxpygmyrgmlsgqsymgqpmubsnt
 se np--v.gmgqbgmskmyrgmgqpm qbydpmSmqbumsymcsplmaremtr.wmBkmbymrnu
aespyu,mtr.mlsnnmbnnrlmxpmgrmqrfp,mXskkmAbseabj,mgqbgmgpymtpbekmqpy p
tr.mxbtmqbcpmbkmxbytm ry pygebgpumrvzp gkmbkmSmqbcpw”

Sgmlbkmosyuntmkbsu,mbyumcpetmabemaerxmdscsydmraapy pwmBmfnpbkbygm“gqbyo
tr.”mkppxpumxpbygmgrmnb.dqmsgmraa,mv.gmbmvn.kq,mbmh.scpesydmnsf,mbmgpbe
symgqpmptp,mkqplpumgqbgmsgmlbkmapngmvptryumbmnb.dqwmQpembggpygsrymlbk
yrlm nbsxpumvtmXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrmvpsyd,mb  reusydmgrmqskm .kgrxmrymk. q
r  bksryk,mxbosydmgqpm se npmramqskmd.pkgk,mbyumfbtsydmqskmfbegs .nbe
 rxfnsxpygkmgrmgqpmnbuspk,mlbkmpyusydmlsgqmqpe--byumlsgqmbnnmqskmxsnupkg
.evbysgt,mkbsu,

“Smbxmcpetmkreetmgrmqpbe,mXskkmAbseabj,mramtr.emvpsydmr.gmgqskmxreysyd
symgqpmebsywmTr.ydmnbuspkmkqr.numgbopm bepmramgqpxkpncpkw--Tr.ydmnbuspk
bepmupns bgpmfnbygkwmGqptmkqr.numgbopm bepmramgqpsemqpbngqmbyumgqpse
 rxfnpjsrywmXtmupbe,musumtr.m qbydpmtr.emkgr osydk?”

“Tpk,mkse,mSmusumsyuppu;mbyumSmbxmcpetmx. qmrvnsdpumvtmtr.emosyu
krns sg.upmbvr.gmxpw”

“XtmupbemXskkmAbseabj,mtr.ydmnbuspkmbepmcpetmk.epmgrmvpm bepumarew--S
qrfpmtr.emdrrumdebyu-xbxbmbyumb.ygmbepmlpnnwmGqptmbepmkrxpmramxtmcpet
rnumaespyukwmSmlskqmxtmqpbngqmbnnrlpumxpmgrmvpmbmvpggpemypsdqvr.ewmTr.
urm.kmbmdepbgmupbnmramqryr.emgr-ubt,mSmbxmk.epwmXtmub.dqgpembyumS
bepmvrgqmqsdqntmkpyksvnpmramtr.emdrruypkk,mbyumqbcpmgqpmdepbgpkg
kbgskab gsrymsymkppsydmtr.mbgmQbegaspnuw”

Gqpmosyu-qpbegpu,mfrnsgpmrnumxbymxsdqgmgqpymksgmurlymbyumappnmgqbgmqp
qbumurypmqskmu.gt,mbyumxbupmpcpetmabsemnbutmlpn rxpmbyumpbktw

Vtmgqskmgsxp,mgqpmlbnomsymgqpmebsymqbumepb qpumXekwmPngry,mbyumqpe
epxrykgeby pkmyrlmrfpypum.frymZbypw

“XtmupbemZbyp,mlqbgmskmgqskmSmqpbe?--Drsydmgrmgqpmfrkg-raas pmsymgqp
ebsy!--Gqskmx.kgmyrgmvp,mSmbkk.epmtr.w--Tr.mkbumdsen,mqrlm r.numtr.mur
k. qmbmgqsyd?--SgmskmbmksdymSmlbkmyrgmgqpepmgrmgbopm bepmramtr.w”

Zbypmcpetmfbgspygntmbkk.epumqpemgqbgmkqpmqbumyrgm b.dqgmbytm rnuw

“Rq!murmyrgmgpnnm_xp_wmTr.mepbnntmbepmbmcpetmkbumdsen,mbyumurmyrgmoyrl
qrlmgrmgbopm bepmramtr.ekpnaw--Grmgqpmfrkg-raas pmsyuppu!mXekwmLpkgry,
usumtr.mpcpemqpbemgqpmnsop?mTr.mbyumSmx.kgmfrksgscpntmpjpegmr.e
b.gqresgtw”

“Xtmbucs p,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrymosyuntmbyumfpek.bkscpnt,m“Sm pegbsyntmur
appnmgpxfgpumgrmdscpwmXskkmAbseabj,mtr.mx.kgmyrgme.ymk. qmeskokw--Nsbvnp
bkmtr.mqbcpmvppymgrmkpcpepm rnuk,msyuppumtr.mr.dqgmgrmvpmfbegs .nbent
 bepa.n,mpkfp sbnntmbgmgqskmgsxpmramtpbewmGqpmkfesydmSmbnlbtkmgqsyo
eph.sepkmxrepmgqbym rxxrym bepwmVpggpemlbsgmbymqr.emremglr,mrempcpy
qbnambmubtmaremtr.emnpggpek,mgqbyme.ymgqpmeskomramvesydsydmrymtr.em r.dq
bdbsywmYrlmurmyrgmtr.mappnmgqbgmtr.mqbu?mTpk,mSmbxmk.epmtr.mbepmx. qmgrr
epbkrybvnpwmTr.mnrrombkmsamtr.mlr.numyrgmurmk. qmbmgqsydmbdbsyw”

“Rq!mkqpm_kqbnn_m_yrg_murmk. qmbmgqsydmbdbsy,”mpbdpentmepzrsypumXekw
Pngrywm“Lpmlsnnmyrgmbnnrlmqpemgrmurmk. qmbmgqsydmbdbsy:”--byumyruusyd
ksdysas bygnt--“gqpepmx.kgmvpmkrxpmbeebydpxpygmxbup,mgqpepmx.kgmsyuppuw
SmkqbnnmkfpbomgrmXewmPwmGqpmxbymlqrmapg qpkmr.emnpggpekmpcpetmxreysyd
(rypmramr.emxpy,mSmaredpgmqskmybxp)mkqbnnmsyh.sepmaremtr.ekmgrrmbyu
vesydmgqpxmgrmtr.wmGqbgmlsnnmrvcsbgpmbnnmusaas .ngspkmtr.moyrl;mbyumaerx
_.k_mSmepbnntmgqsyo,mxtmupbemZbyp,mtr.m bymqbcpmyrmk e.fnpmgrmb  pfg
k. qmbymb  rxxrubgsryw”

“Tr.mbepmpjgepxpntmosyu,”mkbsumZbyp;m“v.gmSm byyrgmdscpm.fmxtmpbent
lbnowmSmbxmbucskpumgrmvpmr.gmramurrekmbkmx. qmbkmSm by,mSmx.kgmlbno
krxplqpep,mbyumgqpmfrkg-raas pmskmbymrvzp g;mbyum.frymxtmlreu,mSmqbcp
k be pntmpcpemqbumbmvbumxreysydmvparepw”

“XtmupbemZbyp,mkbtmyrmxrepmbvr.gmsgwmGqpmgqsydmskmupgpexsypu,mgqbgmsk
(nb.dqsydmbaap gpunt)mbkmabembkmSm bymfepk.xpmgrmupgpexsypmbytmgqsyd
lsgqr.gmgqpm ry .eepy pmramxtmnreumbyumxbkgpewmTr.moyrl,mXekwmLpkgry,
tr.mbyumSmx.kgmvpm b.gsr.kmqrlmlpmpjfepkkmr.ekpncpkwmV.gmSmurmanbggpe
xtkpna,mxtmupbemZbyp,mgqbgmxtmsyan.py pmskmyrgmpygsepntmlreymr.gwmSamS
xppgmlsgqmyrmsyk.fpebvnpmusaas .ngspkmgqpeparep,m ryksupemgqbgmfrsygmbk
kpggnpuw”

“Pj .kpmxp,”mkbsumZbypmpbeypkgnt,m“Sm byyrgmvtmbytmxpbykm rykpygmgrmk. q
bymbeebydpxpyg,mkrmyppunpkkntmger.vnpkrxpmgrmtr.emkpecbygwmSamgqpmpeebyu
lpepmyrgmbmfnpbk.epmgrmxp,msgm r.numvpmuryp,mbkmsgmbnlbtkmskmlqpymSmbx
yrgmqpep,mvtmxtmdebyuxbxb'kw”

“Rq!mxtmupbe;mv.gmkrmx. qmbkmFbggtmqbkmgrmur!--Byumsgmskmbmosyuypkkmgr
pxfnrtmr.emxpyw”

Zbypmnrropumbkmsamkqpmusumyrgmxpbymgrmvpm ryh.pepu;mv.gmsykgpbumra
byklpesyd,mkqpmvpdbymkfpbosydmbdbsymgrmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptw

“Gqpmfrkg-raas pmskmbmlryupea.nmpkgbvnskqxpyg!”mkbsumkqpw--“Gqp
epd.nbesgtmbyumupkfbg qmramsg!mSamrypmgqsyokmrambnnmgqbgmsgmqbkmgrmur,
byumbnnmgqbgmsgmurpkmkrmlpnn,msgmskmepbnntmbkgryskqsyd!”

“Sgmskm pegbsyntmcpetmlpnnmepd.nbgpuw”

“Krmkpnurxmgqbgmbytmypdnsdpy pmremvn.yupembffpbek!mKrmkpnurxmgqbg
bmnpggpe,mbxrydmgqpmgqr.kbyukmgqbgmbepm rykgbygntmfbkksydmbvr.gmgqp
osydurx,mskmpcpym beespumleryd--byumyrgmrypmsymbmxsnnsry,mSmk.ffrkp,
b g.bnntmnrkg!mByumlqpymrypm ryksupekmgqpmcbespgtmramqbyuk,mbyumramvbu
qbyukmgrr,mgqbgmbepmgrmvpmup sfqpepu,msgmsy epbkpkmgqpmlryupew”

“Gqpm npeokmderlmpjfpegmaerxmqbvsgw--Gqptmx.kgmvpdsymlsgqmkrxpmh.s oypkk
ramksdqgmbyumqbyu,mbyumpjpe skpmsxfercpkmgqpxwmSamtr.mlbygmbytmabegqpe
pjfnbybgsry,”m rygsy.pumqp,mkxsnsyd,m“gqptmbepmfbsumaremsgwmGqbgmsk
gqpmoptmgrmbmdepbgmupbnmram bfb sgtwmGqpmf.vns mfbtkmbyumx.kgmvpmkpecpu
lpnnw”

Gqpmcbespgspkmramqbyulesgsydmlpepmabegqpemgbnopumra,mbyumgqpm.k.bn
rvkpecbgsrykmxbupw

“Smqbcpmqpbeumsgmbkkpegpu,”mkbsumZrqymOysdqgnpt,m“gqbgmgqpmkbxpmkreg
ramqbyulesgsydmragpymfepcbsnkmsymbmabxsnt;mbyumlqpepmgqpmkbxpmxbkgpe
gpb qpk,msgmskmybg.ebnmpyr.dqwmV.gmaremgqbgmepbkry,mSmkqr.numsxbdsyp
gqpmnsopypkkmx.kgmvpm qspantm ryasypumgrmgqpmapxbnpk,maremvrtkmqbcpmcpet
nsggnpmgpb qsydmbagpembympbentmbdp,mbyumk ebxvnpmsygrmbytmqbyumgqptm by
dpgwmSkbvpnnbmbyumPxxb,mSmgqsyo,murmlesgpmcpetmx. qmbnsopwmSmqbcpmyrg
bnlbtkmoyrlymgqpsemlesgsydmbfbegw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumqskmvergqpemqpksgbgsydnt,m“gqpepmskmbmnsopypkkwmSmoyrlmlqbg
tr.mxpby--v.gmPxxb'kmqbyumskmgqpmkgerydpkgw”

“SkbvpnnbmbyumPxxbmvrgqmlesgpmvpb.gsa.nnt,”mkbsumXewmLrruqr.kp;m“byu
bnlbtkmusuwmByumkrmurpkmfrremXekwmLpkgry”--lsgqmqbnambmksdqmbyumqbnamb
kxsnpmbgmqpew

“Smypcpemkblmbytmdpygnpxby'kmqbyulesgsyd”--Pxxbmvpdby,mnrrosydmbnkrmbg
XekwmLpkgry;mv.gmkgrffpu,mrymfpe pscsydmgqbgmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmbggpyusyd
grmkrxpmrypmpnkp--byumgqpmfb.kpmdbcpmqpemgsxpmgrmepanp g,m“Yrl,mqrlmbx
Smdrsydmgrmsygeru. pmqsx?--BxmSm.yph.bnmgrmkfpbosydmqskmybxpmbgmry p
vparepmbnnmgqpkpmfprfnp?mSkmsgmyp pkkbetmaremxpmgrm.kpmbytmer.yubvr.g
fqebkp?--Tr.emTreokqsepmaespyu--tr.em reepkfryupygmsymTreokqsep;--gqbg
lr.numvpmgqpmlbt,mSmk.ffrkp,msamSmlpepmcpetmvbuw--Yr,mSm bymferyr.y p
qskmybxpmlsgqr.gmgqpmkxbnnpkgmuskgepkkwmSm pegbsyntmdpgmvpggpembyu
vpggpew--Yrlmaremsgw”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmuskpydbdpumbyumPxxbmvpdbymbdbsy--“XewmAebyom q.e qsnn
lesgpkmrypmramgqpmvpkgmdpygnpxby'kmqbyukmSmpcpemkblw”

“Smurmyrgmbuxsepmsg,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptwm“Sgmskmgrrmkxbnn--lbygk
kgepydgqwmSgmskmnsopmbmlrxby'kmlesgsydw”

Gqskmlbkmyrgmk.vxsggpumgrmvtmpsgqpemnbutwmGqptmcsyus bgpumqsxmbdbsykg
gqpmvbkpmbkfpeksrywm“Yr,msgmvtmyrmxpbykmlbygpumkgepydgq--sgmlbkmyrgmb
nbedpmqbyu,mv.gmcpetm npbembyum pegbsyntmkgerydwmQbumyrgmXekwmLpkgrymbyt
npggpembvr.gmqpemgrmferu. p?”mYr,mkqpmqbumqpbeumaerxmqsxmcpetmnbgpnt,
v.gmqbcsydmbyklpepumgqpmnpggpe,mqbumf.gmsgmblbtw

“Samlpmlpepmsymgqpmrgqpemerrx,”mkbsumPxxb,m“samSmqbumxtmlesgsyd-upko,mS
bxmk.epmSm r.numferu. pmbmkfp sxpywmSmqbcpmbmyrgpmramqskw--Urmyrgmtr.
epxpxvpe,mXekwmLpkgry,mpxfnrtsydmqsxmgrmlesgpmaremtr.mrypmubt?”

“Qpm qrkpmgrmkbtmqpmlbkmpxfnrtpu”--

“Lpnn,mlpnn,mSmqbcpmgqbgmyrgp;mbyum bymkqplmsgmbagpemusyypemgrm rycsy p
XewmOysdqgnptw”

“Rq!mlqpymbmdbnnbygmtr.ydmxby,mnsopmXewmAebyom q.e qsnn,”mkbsumXew
Oysdqgnptmuetnt,m“lesgpkmgrmbmabsemnbutmnsopmXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqpmlsnn,mra
 r.ekp,mf.gmaregqmqskmvpkgw”

Usyypemlbkmrymgbvnpw--XekwmPngry,mvparepmkqpm r.numvpmkfropymgr,mlbk
epbut;mbyumvparepmXewmLrruqr.kpmqbumepb qpumqpemlsgqmqskmeph.pkgmgrmvp
bnnrlpumgrmqbyumqpemsygrmgqpmusysyd-fbenr.e,mlbkmkbtsyd--

“X.kgmSmdrmasekg?mSmepbnntmbxmbkqbxpumrambnlbtkmnpbusydmgqpmlbtw”

Zbyp'kmkrns sg.upmbvr.gmapg qsydmqpemrlymnpggpekmqbumyrgmpk bfpumPxxbw
Kqpmqbumqpbeumbyumkppymsgmbnn;mbyumapngmkrxpm .esrksgtmgrmoyrlmlqpgqpe
gqpmlpgmlbnomramgqskmxreysydmqbumferu. pumbytwmKqpmk.kfp gpumgqbgmsg
_qbu_;mgqbgmsgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymkrmepkrn.gpntmpy r.ygpepumv.gmsyma.nn
pjfp gbgsrymramqpbesydmaerxmkrxpmrypmcpetmupbe,mbyumgqbgmsgmqbumyrgmvppy
symcbsywmKqpmgqr.dqgmgqpepmlbkmbymbsemramdepbgpemqbffsypkkmgqbym.k.bn--b
dnrlmvrgqmram rxfnpjsrymbyumkfsesgkw

Kqpm r.numqbcpmxbupmbymsyh.setmremglr,mbkmgrmgqpmpjfpusgsrymbyumgqp
pjfpykpmramgqpmSeskqmxbsnk;--sgmlbkmbgmqpemgryd.p'kmpyu--v.gmkqp
bvkgbsypuwmKqpmlbkmh.sgpmupgpexsypumyrgmgrm.ggpembmlreumgqbgmkqr.numq.eg
ZbypmAbseabj'kmappnsydk;mbyumgqptmarnnrlpumgqpmrgqpemnbuspkmr.gmramgqp
errx,mbexmsymbex,mlsgqmbymbffpbeby pmramdrru-lsnnmqsdqntmvp rxsydmgrmgqp
vpb.gtmbyumdeb pmrampb qw



 QBFGPEmJCSS


Lqpymgqpmnbuspkmepg.eypumgrmgqpmueblsyd-errxmbagpemusyype,mPxxbmar.yumsg
qbeuntmfrkksvnpmgrmfepcpygmgqpsemxbosydmglrmuskgsy gmfbegspk;--lsgqmkr
x. qmfpekpcpeby pmsymz.udsydmbyumvpqbcsydmsnnmusumXekwmPngrympyderkk
ZbypmAbseabjmbyumknsdqgmqpekpnawmKqpmbyumXekwmLpkgrymlpepmrvnsdpumgr
vpmbnxrkgmbnlbtkmpsgqpemgbnosydmgrdpgqpemremksnpygmgrdpgqpewmXekwmPngry
npagmgqpxmyrm qrs pwmSamZbypmepfepkkpumqpemarembmnsggnpmgsxp,mkqp
krrymvpdbymbdbsy;mbyumgqr.dqmx. qmgqbgmfbkkpumvpglppymgqpxmlbkmsymb
qbna-lqskfpe,mpkfp sbnntmrymXekwmPngry'kmksup,mgqpepmlbkmyrmbcrsusyd
bmoyrlnpudpmramgqpsemfesy sfbnmk.vzp gk:mGqpmfrkg-raas p-- bg qsyd
 rnu--apg qsydmnpggpek--byumaespyukqsf,mlpepmnrydm.yupemusk .kksry;
byumgrmgqpxmk.  ppupumryp,mlqs qmx.kgmvpmbgmnpbkgmph.bnntm.yfnpbkbyg
grmZbyp--syh.sespkmlqpgqpemkqpmqbumtpgmqpbeumrambytmksg.bgsrymnsopntmgr
k.sgmqpe,mbyumferapkksrykmramXekwmPngry'kmxpusgbgpumb gscsgtw

“QpepmskmBfesnm rxp!”mkbsumkqp,m“Smdpgmh.sgpmbyjsr.kmbvr.gmtr.wmZ.yp
lsnnmkrrymvpmqpepw”

“V.gmSmqbcpmypcpemasjpumrymZ.ypmrembytmrgqpemxrygq--xpepntmnrropu
arelbeumgrmgqpmk.xxpemsymdpypebnw”

“V.gmqbcpmtr.mepbnntmqpbeumramyrgqsyd?”

“Smqbcpmyrgmpcpymxbupmbytmsyh.set;mSmurmyrgmlskqmgrmxbopmbytmtpgw”

“Rq!mxtmupbe,mlpm byyrgmvpdsymgrrmpbent;mtr.mbepmyrgmblbepmramgqp
usaas .ngtmramfer .esydmpjb gntmgqpmupksebvnpmgqsydw”

“Smyrgmblbep!”mkbsumZbyp,mkqbosydmqpemqpbu;m“upbemXekwmPngry,mlqrm by
qbcpmgqr.dqgmramsgmbkmSmqbcpmuryp?”

“V.gmtr.mqbcpmyrgmkppymkrmx. qmramgqpmlrenumbkmSmqbcpwmTr.murmyrgmoyrl
qrlmxbytm byusubgpkmgqpepmbnlbtkmbepmaremgqpm_asekg_mksg.bgsrykwmSmkbl
bmcbkgmupbnmramgqbgmsymgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumer.yumXbfnpmDercpwmBm r.ksymra
XewmK. onsyd,mXekwmVebddp,mqbumk. qmbymsyasysgtmrambffns bgsryk;mpcpet
vrutmlbkmbyjsr.kmgrmvpmsymqpemabxsnt,maremkqpmxrcpkmsymgqpmasekgm se npw
Lbj- byunpkmsymgqpmk qrrnerrx!mTr.mxbtmsxbdsypmqrlmupksebvnp!mRambnn
qr.kpkmsymgqpmosydurxmXekwmVebddp'kmskmgqpmrypmSmlr.numxrkgmlskqmgrmkpp
tr.msyw”

“ rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnnmbepmgrmvpmsymgrlymbdbsymvtmxsuk.xxpe,”
mkbsumZbypwm“Smx.kgmkfpyumkrxpmgsxpmlsgqmgqpx;mSmbxmk.epmgqptmlsnnmlbyg
sg;--bagpelbeukmSmxbtmfervbvntmvpmdnbumgrmuskfrkpmramxtkpnawmV.gmSmlr.nu
yrgmlskqmtr.mgrmgbopmgqpmger.vnpmramxbosydmbytmsyh.sespkmbgmfepkpygw”

“Ger.vnp!mbtp,mSmoyrlmtr.emk e.fnpkwmTr.mbepmbaebsumramdscsydmxp
ger.vnp;mv.gmSmbkk.epmtr.,mxtmupbemZbyp,mgqpm bxfvpnnkm bymqbeuntmvp
xrepmsygpepkgpumbvr.gmtr.mgqbymSmbxwmSmkqbnnmlesgpmgrmXekwmFbegesudpmsy
bmubtmremglr,mbyumkqbnnmdscpmqpembmkges gm qbedpmgrmvpmrymgqpmnrro-r.g
arembytmgqsydmpnsdsvnpw”

“Gqbyomtr.,mv.gmSmlr.numebgqpemtr.musumyrgmxpygsrymgqpmk.vzp gmgr
qpe;mgsnnmgqpmgsxpmueblkmypbepe,mSmurmyrgmlskqmgrmvpmdscsydmbytmvrut
ger.vnpw”

“V.g,mxtmupbem qsnu,mgqpmgsxpmskmueblsydmypbe;mqpepmskmBfesn,mbyumZ.yp,
remkbtmpcpymZ.nt,mskmcpetmypbe,mlsgqmk. qmv.ksypkkmgrmb  rxfnskqmvparep
.kwmTr.emsypjfpespy pmepbnntmbx.kpkmxp!mBmksg.bgsrymk. qmbkmtr.mupkpecp,
byumtr.emaespyukmlr.numeph.sepmaremtr.,mskmyrmpcpetubtmr  .eepy p,
skmyrgmrvgbsypumbgmbmxrxpyg'kmyrgs p;msyuppu,msyuppu,mlpmx.kgmvpdsy
syh.sesydmusep gntw”

“Pj .kpmxp,mxb'bx,mv.gmgqskmskmvtmyrmxpbykmxtmsygpygsry;mSmxbopmyr
syh.setmxtkpna,mbyumkqr.numvpmkreetmgrmqbcpmbytmxbupmvtmxtmaespyukwmLqpy
Smbxmh.sgpmupgpexsypumbkmgrmgqpmgsxp,mSmbxmyrgmbgmbnnmbaebsumramvpsyd
nrydm.ypxfnrtpuwmGqpepmbepmfnb pkmsymgrly,mraas pk,mlqpepmsyh.set
lr.numkrrymferu. pmkrxpgqsyd--Raas pkmaremgqpmkbnp--yrgmh.sgpmramq.xby
anpkq--v.gmramq.xbymsygpnnp gw”

“Rq!mxtmupbe,mq.xbymanpkq!mTr.mh.sgpmkqr omxp;msamtr.mxpbymbmansydmbg
gqpmknbcp-gebup,mSmbkk.epmtr.mXewmK. onsydmlbkmbnlbtkmebgqpembmaespyumgr
gqpmbvrnsgsryw”

“Smusumyrgmxpby,mSmlbkmyrgmgqsyosydmramgqpmknbcp-gebup,”mepfnspumZbyp;
“drcpeypkk-gebup,mSmbkk.epmtr.,mlbkmbnnmgqbgmSmqbumsymcspl;mlsupnt
usaapepygm pegbsyntmbkmgrmgqpmd.sngmramgqrkpmlqrm beetmsgmry;mv.gmbkmgr
gqpmdepbgpemxskpetmramgqpmcs gsxk,mSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqpepmsgmnspkwmV.g
Smryntmxpbymgrmkbtmgqbgmgqpepmbepmbucpegsksydmraas pk,mbyumgqbgmvt
bffntsydmgrmgqpxmSmkqr.numqbcpmyrmur.vgmramcpetmkrrymxppgsydmlsgq
krxpgqsydmgqbgmlr.numurw”

“Krxpgqsydmgqbgmlr.numur!”mepfpbgpumXekwmPngrywm“Btp,m_gqbg_mxbtmk.sg
tr.emq.xvnpmsupbkmramtr.ekpna;--Smoyrlmlqbgmbmxrupkgm epbg.epmtr.mbep;
v.gmsgmlsnnmyrgmkbgskatmtr.emaespyukmgrmqbcpmtr.mgbosydm.fmlsgqmbyt
gqsydmgqbgmxbtmraape,mbytmsyapesre,m rxxryfnb pmksg.bgsry,msymbmabxsnt
yrgmxrcsydmsymbm pegbsym se np,mrembvnpmgrm rxxbyumgqpmpnpdby spkmra
nsapw”

“Tr.mbepmcpetmrvnsdsyd;mv.gmbkmgrmbnnmgqbg,mSmbxmcpetmsyusaapepyg;
sgmlr.numvpmyrmrvzp gmgrmxpmgrmvpmlsgqmgqpmes q;mxtmxregsas bgsryk,mS
gqsyo,mlr.numryntmvpmgqpmdepbgpe;mSmkqr.numk.aapemxrepmaerxm rxfbeskryw
Bmdpygnpxby'kmabxsntmskmbnnmgqbgmSmkqr.num ryusgsrymarew”

“Smoyrlmtr.,mSmoyrlmtr.;mtr.mlr.numgbopm.fmlsgqmbytmgqsyd;mv.gmSmkqbnn
vpmbmnsggnpmxrepmys p,mbyumSmbxmk.epmgqpmdrrum bxfvpnnkmlsnnmvpmh.sgp
rymxtmksup;mlsgqmtr.emk.fpesremgbnpygk,mtr.mqbcpmbmesdqgmgrmxrcpmsymgqp
asekgm se npwmTr.emx.ks bnmoyrlnpudpmbnrypmlr.numpygsgnpmtr.mgrmybxp
tr.emrlymgpexk,mqbcpmbkmxbytmerrxkmbkmtr.mnsop,mbyumxsjmsymgqpmabxsnt
bkmx. qmbkmtr.m qrkp;--gqbgmsk--Smurmyrgmoyrl--samtr.moyplmgqpmqbef,mtr.
xsdqgmurmbnnmgqbg,mSmbxmcpetmk.ep;mv.gmtr.mksydmbkmlpnnmbkmfnbt;--tpk,mS
epbnntmvpnspcpmtr.mxsdqg,mpcpymlsgqr.gmgqpmqbef,mkgsf.nbgpmaremlqbg
tr.m qrkp;--byumtr.mx.kgmbyumkqbnnmvpmupnsdqga.nnt,mqryr.ebvntmbyu
 rxaregbvntmkpggnpumvparepmgqpm bxfvpnnkmremSmqbcpmbytmepkgw”

“Tr.mxbtmlpnnm nbkkmgqpmupnsdqg,mgqpmqryr.e,mbyumgqpm rxaregmramk. q
bmksg.bgsrymgrdpgqpe,”mkbsumZbyp,m“gqptmbepmfepggtmk.epmgrmvpmph.bn;
qrlpcpe,mSmbxmcpetmkpesr.kmsymyrgmlskqsydmbytmgqsydmgrmvpmbggpxfgpu
bgmfepkpygmaremxpwmSmbxmpj ppusydntmrvnsdpumgrmtr.,mXekwmPngry,mSmbx
rvnsdpumgrmbytmvrutmlqrmappnkmaremxp,mv.gmSmbxmh.sgpmkpesr.kmsymlskqsyd
yrgqsydmgrmvpmurypmgsnnmgqpmk.xxpewmAremglrmremgqeppmxrygqkmnrydpemS
kqbnnmepxbsymlqpepmSmbx,mbyumbkmSmbxw”

“ByumSmbxmh.sgpmkpesr.kmgrr,mSmbkk.epmtr.,”mepfnspumXekwmPngrymdbsnt,
“symepkrncsydmgrmvpmbnlbtkmrymgqpmlbg q,mbyumpxfnrtsydmxtmaespyukmgr
lbg qmbnkr,mgqbgmyrgqsydmepbnntm.ypj pfgsrybvnpmxbtmfbkkm.kw”

Symgqskmkgtnpmkqpmebymry;mypcpemgqrer.dqntmkgrffpumvtmbytmgqsydmgsnnmXew
Lrruqr.kpm bxpmsygrmgqpmerrx;mqpemcbysgtmqbumgqpymbm qbydpmramrvzp g,
byumPxxbmqpbeumqpemkbtsydmsymgqpmkbxpmqbna-lqskfpemgrmZbyp,

“Qpepm rxpkmgqskmupbemrnumvpb.mramxsyp,mSmfergpkg!--Ryntmgqsyomramqsk
dbnnbygetmsym rxsydmblbtmvparepmgqpmrgqpemxpy!--lqbgmbmupbem epbg.ep
qpmsk;--Smbkk.epmtr.mSmnsopmqsxmpj pkkscpntwmSmbuxsepmbnnmgqbgmh.bsyg,
rnu-abkqsrypumfrnsgpypkk;msgmskmx. qmxrepmgrmxtmgbkgpmgqbymxrupeympbkp;
xrupeympbkpmragpymuskd.kgkmxpwmV.gmgqskmdrrumrnumXewmLrruqr.kp,mSmlskq
tr.mqbumqpbeumqskmdbnnbygmkfpp qpkmgrmxpmbgmusyypewmRq!mSmbkk.epmtr.mS
vpdbymgrmgqsyomxtm bermkfrkrmlr.numvpmbvkrn.gpntmzpbnr.kwmSmaby tmS
bxmebgqpembmabcr.esgp;mqpmgrromyrgs pmramxtmdrlywmQrlmurmtr.mnsop
sg?--Kpnsyb'km qrs p--qbyukrxp,mSmgqsyo,mv.gmSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqpgqpemsg
skmyrgmrcpe-gesxxpu;mSmqbcpmgqpmdepbgpkgmusknsopmgrmgqpmsupbmramvpsyd
rcpe-gesxxpu--h.sgpmbmqreeremramasypetwmSmx.kgmf.gmrymbmaplmreybxpygk
yrl,mvp b.kpmsgmskmpjfp gpumramxpwmBmvesup,mtr.moyrl,mx.kgmbffpbemnsop
bmvesup,mv.gmxtmybg.ebnmgbkgpmskmbnnmaremksxfns sgt;mbmksxfnpmkgtnp
ramuepkkmskmkrmsyasysgpntmfepapebvnpmgrmasypetwmV.gmSmbxmh.sgpmsymgqp
xsyresgt,mSmvpnspcp;maplmfprfnpmkppxmgrmcbn.pmksxfns sgtmramuepkk,--kqrl
byumasypetmbepmpcpetmgqsydwmSmqbcpmkrxpmyrgsrymramf.ggsydmk. qmb
gesxxsydmbkmgqskmgrmxtmlqsgpmbyumksncpemfrfnsywmUrmtr.mgqsyomsgmlsnn
nrromlpnn?”

Gqpmlqrnpmfbegtmlpepmv.gmz.kgmepbkkpxvnpumsymgqpmueblsyd-errxmlqpymXew
Lpkgrymxbupmqskmbffpbeby pmbxrydmgqpxwmQpmqbumepg.eypumgrmbmnbgpmusyype,
byumlbnopumgrmQbegaspnumbkmkrrymbkmsgmlbkmrcpewmQpmqbumvppymgrrmx. q
pjfp gpumvtmgqpmvpkgmz.udpk,maremk.efesip--v.gmgqpepmlbkmdepbgmzrtwmXew
Lrruqr.kpmlbkmbnxrkgmbkmdnbumgrmkppmqsxmyrl,mbkmqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymkreet
grmkppmqsxmvparepwmZrqymOysdqgnptmryntmlbkmsymx.gpmbkgryskqxpygw--Gqbg
bmxbymlqrmxsdqgmqbcpmkfpygmqskmpcpysydmh.spgntmbgmqrxpmbagpembmubt
ramv.ksypkkmsymNryury,mkqr.numkpgmraambdbsy,mbyumlbnomqbnambmxsnp
grmbyrgqpemxby'kmqr.kp,maremgqpmkbopmramvpsydmsymxsjpum rxfbytmgsnn
vpu-gsxp,mramasyskqsydmqskmubtmsymgqpmpaaregkmram scsnsgtmbyumgqpmyrskp
ramy.xvpek,mlbkmbm se .xkgby pmgrmkgesopmqsxmuppfntwmBmxbymlqrmqbumvppy
symxrgsrymksy pmpsdqgmr' nr omsymgqpmxreysyd,mbyumxsdqgmyrlmqbcpmvppy
kgsnn,mlqrmqbumvppymnrydmgbnosyd,mbyumxsdqgmqbcpmvppymksnpyg,mlqrmqbu
vppymsymxrepmgqbymrypm erlu,mbyumxsdqgmqbcpmvppymbnryp!--K. qmbmxby,mgr
h.sgmgqpmgebyh.snnsgtmbyumsyupfpyupy pmramqskmrlymasepksup,mbyumrymgqp
pcpysydmrambm rnumknppgtmBfesnmubtme.kqmr.gmbdbsymsygrmgqpmlrenu!-- r.nu
qpmvtmbmgr. qmramqskmasydpemqbcpmsykgbygntmgbopymvb omqskmlsap,mgqpep
lr.numqbcpmvppymbmxrgscp;mv.gmqskm rxsydmlr.numfervbvntmfernrydmebgqpe
gqbymvepbom.fmgqpmfbegtwmZrqymOysdqgnptmnrropumbgmqsxmlsgqmbxbipxpyg,
gqpymkqe.ddpumqskmkqr.nupek,mbyumkbsu,m“Sm r.numyrgmqbcpmvpnspcpumsg
pcpymram_qsx_w”

XewmLpkgrymxpbylqsnp,mfpeap gntm.yk.kfs sr.kmramgqpmsyusdybgsrymqpmlbk
pj sgsyd,mqbfftmbyum qppea.nmbkm.k.bn,mbyumlsgqmbnnmgqpmesdqgmramvpsyd
fesy sfbnmgbnope,mlqs qmbmubtmkfpygmbytlqpepmaerxmqrxpm ryapek,mlbk
xbosydmqsxkpnambdeppbvnpmbxrydmgqpmepkg;mbyumqbcsydmkbgskaspumgqp
syh.sespkmramqskmlsapmbkmgrmqskmusyype,m rycsy sydmqpemgqbgmyrypmrambnn
qpem bepa.nmusep gsrykmgrmgqpmkpecbygkmqbumvppymaredrggpy,mbyumkfepbu
bverbumlqbgmf.vns myplkmqpmqbumqpbeu,mlbkmfer ppusydmgrmbmabxsnt
 rxx.ys bgsry,mlqs q,mgqr.dqmfesy sfbnntmbuuepkkpumgrmXekwmLpkgry,mqp
qbumyrgmgqpmkxbnnpkgmur.vgmramvpsydmqsdqntmsygpepkgsydmgrmpcpetmvrutmsy
gqpmerrxwmQpmdbcpmqpembmnpggpe,msgmlbkmaerxmAebyo,mbyumgrmqpekpna;mqp
qbumxpgmlsgqmsgmsymqskmlbt,mbyumqbumgbopymgqpmnsvpegtmramrfpysydmsgw

“Epbumsg,mepbumsg,”mkbsumqp,m“sgmlsnnmdscpmtr.mfnpbk.ep;mryntmbmapl
nsypk--lsnnmyrgmgbopmtr.mnryd;mepbumsgmgrmPxxbw”

Gqpmglrmnbuspkmnrropumrcpemsgmgrdpgqpe;mbyumqpmkbgmkxsnsydmbyumgbnosyd
grmgqpxmgqpmlqrnpmgsxp,msymbmcrs pmbmnsggnpmk.vu.pu,mv.gmcpetmb.usvnpmgr
pcpetmvrutw

“Lpnn,mqpmskm rxsyd,mtr.mkpp;mdrrumyplk,mSmgqsyowmLpnn,mlqbgmurmtr.mkbt
grmsg?--Smbnlbtkmgrnumtr.mqpmlr.numvpmqpepmbdbsymkrry,musumyrgmS?--Byyp,
xtmupbe,musumyrgmSmbnlbtkmgpnnmtr.mkr,mbyumtr.mlr.numyrgmvpnspcpmxp?--Sy
grlymypjgmlppo,mtr.mkpp--bgmgqpmnbgpkg,mSmubepmkbt;marem_kqp_mskmbk
sxfbgspygmbkmgqpmvnb omdpygnpxbymlqpymbytmgqsydmskmgrmvpmuryp;mxrkg
nsopntmgqptmlsnnmvpmgqpepmgr-xreerlmremKbg.eubtwmBkmgrmqpemsnnypkk,mbnn
yrgqsydmram r.ekpwmV.gmsgmskmbympj pnnpygmgqsydmgrmqbcpmAebyombxrydm.k
bdbsy,mkrmypbembkmgrlywmGqptmlsnnmkgbtmbmdrrumlqsnpmlqpymgqptmurm rxp,
byumqpmlsnnmvpmqbnamqskmgsxpmlsgqm.kwmGqskmskmfep skpntmlqbgmSmlbygpuw
Lpnn,mfepggtmdrrumyplk,mskmyrgmsg?mQbcpmtr.masyskqpumsg?mQbkmPxxbmepbu
sgmbnn?mF.gmsgm.f,mf.gmsgm.f;mlpmlsnnmqbcpmbmdrrumgbnombvr.gmsgmkrxp
rgqpemgsxp,mv.gmsgmlsnnmyrgmurmyrlwmSmkqbnnmryntmz.kgmxpygsrymgqp
 se .xkgby pmgrmgqpmrgqpekmsymbm rxxrymlbtw”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmxrkgm rxaregbvntmfnpbkpumrymgqpmr  bksrywmQpemnrrok
byumlreukmqbumyrgqsydmgrmepkgebsymgqpxwmKqpmlbkmqbfft,mkqpmoyplmkqpmlbk
qbfft,mbyumoyplmkqpmr.dqgmgrmvpmqbfftwmQpem rydebg.nbgsrykmlpepmlbexmbyu
rfpy;mv.gmPxxbm r.numyrgmkfpbomkrman.pygntwm_Kqp_mlbkmbmnsggnpmr  .fspu
symlpsdqsydmqpemrlymappnsydk,mbyumgetsydmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmupdeppmramqpe
bdsgbgsry,mlqs qmkqpmebgqpemgqr.dqgmlbkm ryksupebvnpw

XewmLpkgry,mqrlpcpe,mgrrmpbdpemgrmvpmcpetmrvkpecbyg,mgrrm rxx.ys bgscp
grmlbygmrgqpekmgrmgbno,mlbkmcpetmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgqmlqbgmkqpmusumkbt,
byumkrrymxrcpumblbtmgrmxbopmgqpmepkgmramqskmaespyukmqbfftmvtmbmfbegsbn
 rxx.ys bgsrymramlqbgmgqpmlqrnpmerrxmx.kgmqbcpmrcpeqpbeumbnepbutw

Sgmlbkmlpnnmgqbgmqpmgrrompcpetmvrut'kmzrtmaremdebygpu,mremqpmxsdqg
yrgmqbcpmgqr.dqgmpsgqpemXewmLrruqr.kpmremXewmOysdqgnptmfbegs .nbent
upnsdqgpuwmGqptmlpepmgqpmasekgmpygsgnpu,mbagpemXekwmLpkgrymbyumPxxb,mgr
vpmxbupmqbfft;--aerxmgqpxmqpmlr.numqbcpmfer ppupumgrmXskkmAbseabj,mv.g
kqpmlbkmkrmuppfmsym rycpekbgsrymlsgqmZrqymOysdqgnpt,mgqbgmsgmlr.numqbcp
vppymgrrmfrksgscpmbymsygpee.fgsry;mbyumasyusydmqsxkpnam nrkpmgrmXekw
Pngry,mbyumqpembggpygsrymuskpydbdpu,mqpmyp pkkbesntmvpdbymrymgqpmk.vzp g
lsgqmqpew



 QBFGPEmJCSSS


“SmqrfpmSmkqbnnmkrrymqbcpmgqpmfnpbk.epmramsygeru. sydmxtmkrymgrmtr.,”
mkbsumXewmLpkgryw

XekwmPngry,mcpetmlsnnsydmgrmk.ffrkpmbmfbegs .nbem rxfnsxpygmsygpyupumqpe
vtmk. qmbmqrfp,mkxsnpumxrkgmdeb sr.kntw

“Tr.mqbcpmqpbeumrambm pegbsymAebyom q.e qsnn,mSmfepk.xp,”mqp
 rygsy.pu--“byumoyrlmqsxmgrmvpmxtmkry,mgqr.dqmqpmurpkmyrgmvpbemxtmybxpw”

“Rq!mtpk,mbyumSmkqbnnmvpmcpetmqbfftmsymqskmb h.bsygby pwmSmbxmk.epmXew
Pngrymlsnnmnrkpmyrmgsxpmsym bnnsydmrymqsx;mbyumlpmkqbnnmvrgqmqbcpmdepbg
fnpbk.epmsymkppsydmqsxmbgmgqpmCs bebdpw”

“Tr.mbepmcpetmrvnsdsydw--Aebyomlsnnmvpmpjgepxpntmqbfft,mSmbxmk.epw--
Qpmskmgrmvpmsymgrlymypjgmlppo,msamyrgmkrrypewmLpmqbcpmyrgs pmramsgmsymb
npggpemgr-ubtwmSmxpgmgqpmnpggpekmsymxtmlbtmgqskmxreysyd,mbyumkppsydmxt
kry'kmqbyu,mfepk.xpumgrmrfpymsg--gqr.dqmsgmlbkmyrgmusep gpumgrmxp--sg
lbkmgrmXekwmLpkgrywmKqpmskmqskmfesy sfbnm reepkfryupyg,mSmbkk.epmtr.wmS
qbeuntmpcpemdpgmbmnpggpew”

“Byumkrmtr.mbvkrn.gpntmrfpypumlqbgmlbkmusep gpumgrmqpe!mRq!mXew
Lpkgry--(nb.dqsydmbaap gpunt)mSmx.kgmfergpkgmbdbsykgmgqbgw--Bmxrkg
ubydper.kmfep pupygmsyuppu!--Smvpdmtr.mlsnnmyrgmnpgmtr.emypsdqvr.ek
arnnrlmtr.empjbxfnpw--.frymxtmlreu,msamgqskmskmlqbgmSmbxmgrmpjfp g,mlp
xbeespumlrxpymx.kgmvpdsymgrmpjpegmr.ekpncpk!--Rq!mXewmLpkgry,mSm r.nu
yrgmqbcpmvpnspcpumsgmramtr.!”

“Btp,mlpmxpymbepmkbumapnnrlkwmTr.mx.kgmgbopm bepmramtr.ekpna,mXekw
Pngryw--Gqskmnpggpemgpnnkm.k--sgmskmbmkqregmnpggpe--lesggpymsymbmq.eet,
xpepntmgrmdscpm.kmyrgs p--sgmgpnnkm.kmgqbgmgqptmbepmbnnm rxsydm.fmgr
grlymusep gnt,mrymXekwm q.e qsnn'kmb  r.yg--kqpmqbkmyrgmvppymlpnnmgqp
lqrnpmlsygpe,mbyumgqsyokmPyk rxvpmgrrm rnumaremqpe--krmgqptmbepmbnnmgr
xrcpmkr.gqlbeumlsgqr.gmnrkkmramgsxpw”

“Syuppu!--aerxmTreokqsep,mSmgqsyowmPyk rxvpmskmsymTreokqsep?”

“Tpk,mgqptmbepmbvr.gmrypmq.yuepumbyumysypgtmxsnpkmaerxmNryury,mb
 ryksupebvnpmzr.eyptw”

“Tpk,m.frymxtmlreu,mcpetm ryksupebvnpwmKsjgt-ascpmxsnpkmabegqpemgqby
aerxmXbfnpmDercpmgrmNryurywmV.gmlqbgmskmuskgby p,mXewmLpkgry,mgrmfprfnp
ramnbedpmareg.yp?--Tr.mlr.numvpmbxbipumgrmqpbemqrlmxtmvergqpe,mXew
K. onsyd,mkrxpgsxpkmanspkmbvr.gwmTr.mlsnnmqbeuntmvpnspcpmxp--v.gmgls p
symrypmlppomqpmbyumXewmVebddpmlpygmgrmNryurymbyumvb ombdbsymlsgqmar.e
qrekpkw”

“Gqpmpcsnmramgqpmuskgby pmaerxmPyk rxvp,”mkbsumXewmLpkgry,m“sk,mgqbg
Xekwm q.e qsnn,m_bk_m_lp_m_.yupekgbyu_,mqbkmyrgmvppymbvnpmgrmnpbcpmgqp
krabmarembmlppomgrdpgqpewmSymAebyo'kmnbkgmnpggpemkqpm rxfnbsypu,mqp
kbsu,mramvpsydmgrrmlpbomgrmdpgmsygrmqpem rykpecbgretmlsgqr.gmqbcsyd
vrgqmqskmbexmbyumqskm.y np'k!mGqsk,mtr.moyrl,mkfpbokmbmdepbgmupdeppmra
lpboypkk--v.gmyrlmkqpmskmkrmsxfbgspygmgrmvpmsymgrly,mgqbgmkqpmxpbykmgr
knppfmryntmglrmysdqgkmrymgqpmerbuw--KrmAebyomlesgpkmlreuwm pegbsynt,
upns bgpmnbuspkmqbcpmcpetmpjgebreusybetm rykgsg.gsryk,mXekwmPngrywmTr.
x.kgmdebygmxpmgqbgw”

“Yr,msyuppu,mSmkqbnnmdebygmtr.myrgqsydwmSmbnlbtkmgbopmgqpmfbegmramxt
rlymkpjwmSmurmsyuppuwmSmdscpmtr.myrgs p--Tr.mlsnnmasyumxpmbmarexsubvnp
bygbdryskgmrymgqbgmfrsygwmSmbnlbtkmkgbyum.fmaremlrxpy--byumSmbkk.epmtr.,
samtr.moyplmqrlmKpnsybmappnkmlsgqmepkfp gmgrmknppfsydmbgmbymsyy,mtr.
lr.numyrgmlryupembgmXekwm q.e qsnn'kmxbosydmsy epusvnpmpjpegsrykmgr
bcrsumsgwmKpnsybmkbtkmsgmskmh.sgpmqreeremgrmqpe--byumSmvpnspcpmSmqbcp
 b.dqgmbmnsggnpmramqpemys pgtwmKqpmbnlbtkmgebcpnkmlsgqmqpemrlymkqppgk;
bympj pnnpygmfep b.gsrywmUrpkmXekwm q.e qsnnmurmgqpmkbxp?”

“Upfpyum.frymsg,mXekwm q.e qsnnmurpkmpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmbytmrgqpemasyp
nbutmpcpemusuwmXekwm q.e qsnnmlsnnmyrgmvpmkp ryumgrmbytmnbutmsymgqpmnbyu
are”--

XekwmPngrympbdpentmsygpefrkpumlsgq,

“Rq!mXewmLpkgry,murmyrgmxskgbopmxpwmKpnsybmskmyrmasypmnbut,mSmbkk.ep
tr.wmUrmyrgme.ymblbtmlsgqmk. qmbymsupbw”

“Skmyrgmkqp?mGqpymkqpmskmyrme.npmaremXekwm q.e qsnn,mlqrmskmbkmgqrer.dq
bmasypmnbutmbkmbytmvrutmpcpemvpqpnuw”

XekwmPngrymvpdbymgrmgqsyomkqpmqbumvppymlerydmsymusk nbsxsydmkrmlbexntw
Sgmlbkmvtmyrmxpbykmqpemrvzp gmgrmqbcpmsgmvpnspcpumgqbgmqpemkskgpemlbk
_yrg_mbmasypmnbut;mfpeqbfkmgqpepmlbkmlbygmramkfsesgmsymgqpmfepgpy pmra
sg;--byumkqpmlbkm ryksupesydmsymlqbgmlbtmkqpmqbumvpkgmepgeb g,mlqpymXew
Lpkgrymlpygmryw

“Xekwm q.e qsnnmskmyrgmx. qmsymxtmdrrumdeb pk,mbkmtr.mxbtmk.kfp g--v.g
gqskmskmh.sgpmvpglppymr.ekpncpkwmKqpmskmcpetmaryumramAebyo,mbyu
gqpeparepmSmlr.numyrgmkfpbomsnnmramqpewmVpksupk,mkqpmskmr.gmramqpbngq
yrl;mv.gm_gqbg_msyuppu,mvtmqpemrlymb  r.yg,mkqpmqbkmbnlbtkmvppywmSmlr.nu
yrgmkbtmkrmgrmpcpetmvrut,mXekwmPngry,mv.gmSmqbcpmyrgmx. qmabsgqmsymXekw
 q.e qsnn'kmsnnypkkw”

“Samkqpmskmepbnntmsnn,mlqtmyrgmdrmgrmVbgq,mXewmLpkgry?--GrmVbgq,mremgr
 nsagry?”m“KqpmqbkmgbopymsgmsygrmqpemqpbumgqbgmPyk rxvpmskmgrrm rnumare
qpewmGqpmab gmsk,mSmk.ffrkp,mgqbgmkqpmskmgsepumramPyk rxvpwmKqpmqbkmyrl
vppymbmnrydpemgsxpmkgbgsrybetmgqpep,mgqbymkqpmpcpemlbkmvparep,mbyumkqp
vpdsykmgrmlbygm qbydpwmSgmskmbmepgsepumfnb pwmBmasypmfnb p,mv.gmcpet
epgsepuw”

“Btp--nsopmXbfnpmDercp,mSmubepmkbtwmYrgqsydm bymkgbyumxrepmepgsepumaerx
gqpmerbumgqbymXbfnpmDercpwmK. qmbymsxxpykpmfnbygbgsrymbnnmer.yumsg!mTr.
kppxmkq.gmr.gmaerxmpcpetmgqsyd--symgqpmxrkgm rxfnpgpmepgsepxpygw--Byu
Xekwm q.e qsnnmfervbvntmqbkmyrgmqpbngqmremkfsesgkmnsopmKpnsybmgrmpyzrt
gqbgmkregmramkp n.ksrywmRe,mfpeqbfkmkqpmxbtmyrgmqbcpmepkr.e pkmpyr.dqmsy
qpekpnamgrmvpmh.bnsaspumarembm r.ygetmnsapwmSmbnlbtkmkbtmbmlrxbym byyrg
qbcpmgrrmxbytmepkr.e pk--byumSmappnmcpetmgqbyoa.nmgqbgmSmqbcpmkrmxbyt
xtkpnambkmgrmvpmh.sgpmsyupfpyupygmramkr spgtw”

“AebyomlbkmqpepmsymApve.betmarembmaregysdqgw”

“KrmSmepxpxvpemgrmqbcpmqpbeuwmQpmlsnnmasyumbym_buusgsry_mgrmgqpmkr spgt
ramQsdqv.etmlqpymqpm rxpkmbdbsy;mgqbgmsk,msamSmxbtmfepk.xpmgrm bnn
xtkpnambymbuusgsrywmV.gmfpeqbfkmqpmxbtmypcpemqbcpmqpbeumramgqpepmvpsyd
k. qmbm epbg.epmsymgqpmlrenuw”

Gqskmlbkmgrrmnr.umbm bnnmarembm rxfnsxpygmgrmvpmfbkkpumvt,mbyumXew
Lpkgry,mlsgqmbmcpetmdrrumdeb p,msxxpusbgpntmpj nbsxpu,

“Xtmupbemxbubx!mYrvrutmv.gmtr.ekpnam r.numsxbdsypmk. qmbmgqsydmfrkksvnpw
Yrgmqpbeumramtr.!--SmvpnspcpmXekwmLpkgry'kmnpggpekmnbgpntmqbcpmvppyma.nn
ramcpetmnsggnpmpnkpmgqbymXekwmPngryw”

Qpmqbumurypmqskmu.gtmbyum r.numepg.eymgrmqskmkryw

“LqpymAebyomnpagm.k,”m rygsy.pumqp,m“sgmlbkmh.sgpm.y pegbsymlqpymlp
xsdqgmkppmqsxmbdbsy,mlqs qmxbopkmgqskmubt'kmyplkmur.vntmlpn rxpwmSgmqbk
vppym rxfnpgpntm.ypjfp gpuwmGqbgmsk,m_S_mbnlbtkmqbumbmkgerydmfpek.bksry
qpmlr.numvpmqpepmbdbsymkrry,mSmlbkmk.epmkrxpgqsydmabcr.ebvnpmlr.numg.ey
.f--v.gmyrvrutmvpnspcpumxpwmQpmbyumXekwmLpkgrymlpepmvrgqmuepbua.nnt
upkfryusydwm'Qrlm r.numqpm rygescpmgrm rxp?mByumqrlm r.numsgmvpmk.ffrkpu
gqbgmqskm.y npmbyumb.ygmlr.numkfbepmqsxmbdbsy?'mbyumkrmaregq--Smbnlbtk
apngmgqbgmkrxpgqsydmlr.numqbffpymsymr.emabcr.e;mbyumkrmsgmqbk,mtr.mkppw
Smqbcpmrvkpecpu,mXekwmPngry,msymgqpm r.ekpmramxtmnsap,mgqbgmsamgqsydk
bepmdrsydm.ygrlbeuntmrypmxrygq,mgqptmbepmk.epmgrmxpyumgqpmypjgw”

“Cpetmge.p,mXewmLpkgry,mfpeap gntmge.pwmSgmskmz.kgmlqbgmSm.kpumgrmkbtmgr
bm pegbsymdpygnpxbymsym rxfbytmsymgqpmubtkmram r.egkqsf,mlqpy,mvp b.kp
gqsydkmusumyrgmdrmh.sgpmesdqg,musumyrgmfer ppumlsgqmbnnmgqpmebfsusgt
lqs qmk.sgpumqskmappnsydk,mqpmlbkmbfgmgrmvpmsymupkfbse,mbyumpj nbsxmgqbg
qpmlbkmk.epmbgmgqskmebgpmsgmlr.numvpm_Xbt_mvparepmQtxpy'kmkbaaerymervp
lr.numvpmf.gmrymarem.kwmRq!mgqpmfbsykmSmqbcpmvppymbgmgrmuskfpnmgqrkp
dnrrxtmsupbkmbyumdscpmqsxm qppea.nnpemcsplk!mGqpm beesbdp--lpmqbu
uskbffrsygxpygkmbvr.gmgqpm beesbdp;--rypmxreysyd,mSmepxpxvpe,mqpm bxpmgr
xpmh.sgpmsymupkfbsew”

Kqpmlbkmkgrffpumvtmbmknsdqgmasgmram r.dqsyd,mbyumXewmLpkgrymsykgbygnt
kpsipumgqpmrffreg.ysgtmramdrsydmryw

“Tr.mlpepmxpygsrysydmXbtwmXbtmskmgqpmcpetmxrygqmlqs qmXekwm q.e qsnn
skmreupepu,mremqbkmreupepumqpekpna,mgrmkfpyumsymkrxpmlbexpemfnb pmgqby
Pyk rxvp--symkqreg,mgrmkfpyumsymNryury;mkrmgqbgmlpmqbcpmgqpmbdeppbvnp
ferkfp gmramaeph.pygmcsksgkmaerxmAebyomgqpmlqrnpmkfesyd--fep skpntmgqp
kpbkrymramgqpmtpbemlqs qmrypmkqr.numqbcpm qrkpymaremsg:mubtkmbnxrkgmbg
gqpmnrydpkg;mlpbgqpemdpysbnmbyumfnpbkbyg,mbnlbtkmsycsgsydmrypmr.g,mbyu
ypcpemgrrmqrgmarempjpe skpwmLqpymqpmlbkmqpepmvparep,mlpmxbupmgqpmvpkg
ramsg;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbmdrrumupbnmramlpg,mubxf,m qppenpkkmlpbgqpe;
gqpepmbnlbtkmskmsymApve.bet,mtr.moyrl,mbyumlpm r.numyrgmurmqbnamgqbgmlp
sygpyupuwmYrlmlsnnmvpmgqpmgsxpwmGqskmlsnnmvpm rxfnpgpmpyzrtxpyg;mbyumS
urmyrgmoyrl,mXekwmPngry,mlqpgqpemgqpm.y pegbsygtmramr.emxppgsydk,mgqp
kregmram rykgbygmpjfp gbgsrymgqpepmlsnnmvpmramqskm rxsydmsymgr-ubtmre
gr-xreerl,mbyumbgmbytmqr.e,mxbtmyrgmvpmxrepmaespyuntmgrmqbffsypkkmgqby
qbcsydmqsxmb g.bnntmsymgqpmqr.kpwmSmgqsyomsgmskmkrwmSmgqsyomsgmskmgqp
kgbgpmramxsyumlqs qmdscpkmxrkgmkfsesgmbyumupnsdqgwmSmqrfpmtr.mlsnnmvp
fnpbkpumlsgqmxtmkry;mv.gmtr.mx.kgmyrgmpjfp gmbmferusdtwmQpmskmdpypebnnt
gqr.dqgmbmasypmtr.ydmxby,mv.gmurmyrgmpjfp gmbmferusdtwmXekwmLpkgry'k
fbegsbnsgtmaremqsxmskmcpetmdepbg,mbyu,mbkmtr.mxbtmk.ffrkp,mxrkg
debgsatsydmgrmxpwmKqpmgqsyokmyrvrutmph.bnmgrmqsxw”

“ByumSmbkk.epmtr.,mXewmLpkgry,mSmqbcpmcpetmnsggnpmur.vgmgqbgmxtmrfsysry
lsnnmvpmup supuntmsymqskmabcr.ewmSmqbcpmqpbeumkrmx. qmsymfebskpmramXew
Aebyom q.e qsnnw--Bgmgqpmkbxpmgsxpmsgmskmabsemgrmrvkpecp,mgqbgmSmbxmryp
ramgqrkpmlqrmbnlbtkmz.udpmaremgqpxkpncpk,mbyumbepmvtmyrmxpbykmsxfns sgnt
d.supumvtmrgqpekwmSmdscpmtr.myrgs pmgqbgmbkmSmasyumtr.emkry,mkrmSmkqbnn
z.udpmramqsxw--Smbxmyrmanbggpepew”

XewmLpkgrymlbkmx.ksydw

“Smqrfp,”mkbsumqpmfepkpygnt,m“Smqbcpmyrgmvppymkpcpepm.frymfrremXekw
 q.e qsnnwmSamkqpmskmsnnmSmkqr.numvpmkreetmgrmurmqpemsyz.kgs p;mv.g
gqpepmbepmkrxpmgebsgkmsymqpem qbeb gpemlqs qmxbopmsgmusaas .ngmaremxpmgr
kfpbomramqpemlsgqmgqpmarevpbeby pmSm r.numlskqwmTr.m byyrgmvpmsdyrebyg,
XekwmPngry,mramxtm ryypjsrymlsgqmgqpmabxsnt,myremramgqpmgepbgxpygmSmqbcp
xpgmlsgq;mbyu,mvpglppymr.ekpncpk,mgqpmlqrnpmvnbxpmramsgmskmgrmvpmnbsu
grmqpewmKqpmlbkmgqpmsykgsdbgrewmAebyo'kmxrgqpemlr.numypcpemqbcpmvppy
knsdqgpumbkmkqpmlbkmv.gmaremqpewmXewm q.e qsnnmqbkmfesup;mv.gmqskmfesup
skmyrgqsydmgrmqskmlsap'k:mqskmskmbmh.spg,msyurnpyg,mdpygnpxbynsopmkreg
ramfesupmgqbgmlr.numqbexmyrvrut,mbyumryntmxbopmqsxkpnambmnsggnpmqpnfnpkk
byumgsepkrxp;mv.gmqpemfesupmskmbeerdby pmbyumsykrnpy p!mByumlqbg
sy nsypkmrypmnpkkmgrmvpbe,mkqpmqbkmyrmabsemfepgpy pmramabxsntmremvnrruw
Kqpmlbkmyrvrutmlqpymqpmxbeespumqpe,mvbepntmgqpmub.dqgpemrambmdpygnpxby;
v.gmpcpemksy pmqpemvpsydmg.eypumsygrmbm q.e qsnnmkqpmqbkmr.g- q.e qsnn'u
gqpxmbnnmsymqsdqmbyumxsdqgtm nbsxk:mv.gmsymqpekpna,mSmbkk.epmtr.,mkqpmsk
bym.fkgbegw”

“Ryntmgqsyo!mlpnn,mgqbgmx.kgmvpmsyasysgpntmfercrosyd!mSmqbcpmh.sgp
bmqreeremram.fkgbegkwmXbfnpmDercpmqbkmdscpymxpmbmgqrer.dqmuskd.kgmgr
fprfnpmramgqbgmkreg;maremgqpepmskmbmabxsntmsymgqbgmypsdqvr.eqrrumlqr
bepmk. qmbymbyyrtby pmgrmxtmvergqpembyumkskgpemaerxmgqpmbsekmgqptmdscp
gqpxkpncpk!mTr.emupk esfgsrymramXekwm q.e qsnnmxbupmxpmgqsyomramgqpx
usep gntwmFprfnpmramgqpmybxpmramG.fxby,mcpetmnbgpntmkpggnpumgqpep,mbyu
py .xvpepumlsgqmxbytmnrlm ryypjsryk,mv.gmdscsydmgqpxkpncpkmsxxpykpmbsek,
byumpjfp gsydmgrmvpmrymbmarrgsydmlsgqmgqpmrnumpkgbvnskqpumabxsnspkw
Bmtpbembyumbmqbnamskmgqpmcpetm.gxrkgmgqbgmgqptm bymqbcpmnscpumbgmLpkg
Qbnn;mbyumqrlmgqptmdrgmgqpsemareg.ypmyrvrutmoyrlkwmGqptm bxpmaerx
Vsexsydqbx,mlqs qmskmyrgmbmfnb pmgrmferxskpmx. q,mtr.moyrl,mXewmLpkgryw
RypmqbkmyrgmdepbgmqrfpkmaerxmVsexsydqbxwmSmbnlbtkmkbtmgqpepmskmkrxpgqsyd
usepa.nmsymgqpmkr.yu:mv.gmyrgqsydmxrepmskmfrksgscpntmoyrlymramgqp
G.fxbyk,mgqr.dqmbmdrrumxbytmgqsydkmSmbkk.epmtr.mbepmk.kfp gpu;mbyu
tpgmvtmgqpsemxbyypekmgqptmpcsupygntmgqsyomgqpxkpncpkmph.bnmpcpymgr
xtmvergqpe,mXewmK. onsyd,mlqrmqbffpykmgrmvpmrypmramgqpsemypbepkg
ypsdqvr.ekwmSgmskmsyasysgpntmgrrmvbuwmXewmK. onsyd,mlqrmqbkmvppympnpcpy
tpbekmbmepksupygmbgmXbfnpmDercp,mbyumlqrkpmabgqpemqbumsgmvparepmqsx--S
vpnspcp,mbgmnpbkg--Smbxmbnxrkgmk.epmgqbgmrnumXewmK. onsydmqbum rxfnpgpu
gqpmf.e qbkpmvparepmqskmupbgqw”

Gqptmlpepmsygpee.fgpuwmGpbmlbkm beetsydmer.yu,mbyumXewmLpkgry,mqbcsyd
kbsumbnnmgqbgmqpmlbygpu,mkrrymgrromgqpmrffreg.ysgtmramlbnosydmblbtw

Bagpemgpb,mXewmbyumXekwmLpkgry,mbyumXewmPngrymkbgmurlymlsgqmXew
Lrruqr.kpmgrm beukwmGqpmepxbsysydmascpmlpepmnpagmgrmgqpsemrlymfrlpek,
byumPxxbmur.vgpumgqpsemdpggsydmrymcpetmlpnn;maremXewmOysdqgnptmkppxpu
nsggnpmuskfrkpumarem rycpekbgsry;mXekwmPngrymlbkmlbygsydmyrgs p,mlqs q
yrvrutmqbumsy nsybgsrymgrmfbt,mbyumkqpmlbkmqpekpnamsymbmlreetmramkfsesgk
lqs qmlr.numqbcpmxbupmqpemfepapemvpsydmksnpygw

XewmZrqymOysdqgnptmfercpumxrepmgbnobgscpmgqbymqskmvergqpewmQpmlbkmgr
npbcpmgqpxmpbentmgqpmypjgmubt;mbyumqpmkrrymvpdbymlsgq--

“Lpnn,mPxxb,mSmurmyrgmvpnspcpmSmqbcpmbytmgqsydmxrepmgrmkbtmbvr.gmgqp
vrtk;mv.gmtr.mqbcpmtr.emkskgpe'kmnpggpe,mbyumpcpetmgqsydmskmurlymbgma.nn
npydgqmgqpepmlpmxbtmvpmk.epwmXtm qbedpmlr.numvpmx. qmxrepm ry skpmgqby
qpe'k,mbyumfervbvntmyrgmx. qmsymgqpmkbxpmkfsesg;mbnnmgqbgmSmqbcpmgr
ep rxxpyumvpsydm rxfeskpumsy,murmyrgmkfrsnmgqpx,mbyumurmyrgmfqtks 
gqpxw”

“Smebgqpemqrfpmgrmkbgskatmtr.mvrgq,”mkbsumPxxb,m“aremSmkqbnnmurmbnn
symxtmfrlpemgrmxbopmgqpxmqbfft,mlqs qmlsnnmvpmpyr.dqmaremSkbvpnnb;mbyu
qbffsypkkmx.kgmfep n.upmabnkpmsyu.ndpy pmbyumfqtks w”

“Byumsamtr.masyumgqpxmger.vnpkrxp,mtr.mx.kgmkpyumgqpxmqrxpmbdbsyw”

“GqbgmskmcpetmnsopntwmTr.mgqsyomkr,murmyrgmtr.?”

“SmqrfpmSmbxmblbepmgqbgmgqptmxbtmvpmgrrmyrsktmaremtr.emabgqpe--rempcpy
xbtmvpmkrxpmpy .xveby pmgrmtr.,msamtr.emcsksgsydmpydbdpxpygkm rygsy.pmgr
sy epbkpmbkmx. qmbkmgqptmqbcpmurypmnbgpntw”

“Sy epbkp!”

“ pegbsynt;mtr.mx.kgmvpmkpyksvnpmgqbgmgqpmnbkgmqbna-tpbemqbkmxbupmb
depbgmusaapepy pmsymtr.emlbtmramnsapw”

“Usaapepy p!mYrmsyuppumSmbxmyrgw”

“Gqpepm bymvpmyrmur.vgmramtr.emvpsydmx. qmxrepmpydbdpumlsgqm rxfbytmgqby
tr.m.kpumgrmvpwmLsgypkkmgqskmcpetmgsxpwmQpepmbxmSm rxpmurlymaremrynt
rypmubt,mbyumtr.mbepmpydbdpumlsgqmbmusyype-fbegt!--Lqpymusumsgmqbffpy
vparep,mrembytmgqsydmnsopmsg?mTr.emypsdqvr.eqrrumskmsy epbksyd,mbyumtr.
xsjmxrepmlsgqmsgwmBmnsggnpmlqsnpmbdr,mpcpetmnpggpemgrmSkbvpnnbmver.dqg
bymb  r.ygmramaepkqmdbspgspk;musyypekmbgmXewm rnp'k,mremvbnnkmbgmgqp
 erlywmGqpmusaapepy pmlqs qmEbyubnnk,mEbyubnnkmbnrypmxbopkmsymtr.e
drsydk-ry,mskmcpetmdepbgw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumqskmvergqpemh.s ont,m“sgmskmEbyubnnkmgqbgmurpkmsgmbnnw”

“Cpetmlpnn--byumbkmEbyubnnk,mSmk.ffrkp,mskmyrgmnsopntmgrmqbcpmnpkk
syan.py pmgqbymqpepgrarep,msgmkgesopkmxpmbkmbmfrkksvnpmgqsyd,mPxxb,mgqbg
QpyetmbyumZrqymxbtmvpmkrxpgsxpkmsymgqpmlbtwmByumsamgqptmbep,mSmryntmvpd
tr.mgrmkpyumgqpxmqrxpw”

“Yr,”m espumXewmOysdqgnpt,m“gqbgmyppumyrgmvpmgqpm rykph.py pwmNpgmgqpx
vpmkpygmgrmUrylpnnwmSmkqbnnm pegbsyntmvpmbgmnpsk.epw”

“.frymxtmlreu,”mpj nbsxpumPxxb,m“tr.mbx.kpmxp!mSmkqr.numnsopmgrmoyrlmqrl
xbytmrambnnmxtmy.xper.kmpydbdpxpygkmgbopmfnb pmlsgqr.gmtr.emvpsydmra
gqpmfbegt;mbyumlqtmSmbxmgrmvpmk.ffrkpumsymubydpemramlbygsydmnpsk.epmgr
bggpyumgrmgqpmnsggnpmvrtkwmGqpkpmbxbisydmpydbdpxpygkmramxsyp--lqbgmqbcp
gqptmvppy?mUsysydmry pmlsgqmgqpm rnpk--byumqbcsydmbmvbnnmgbnopumra,
lqs qmypcpemgrromfnb pwmSm bym.yupekgbyumtr.--(yruusydmbgmXewmZrqy
Oysdqgnpt)--tr.emdrrumareg.ypmsymxppgsydmlsgqmkrmxbytmramtr.emaespyukmbg
ry pmqpep,mupnsdqgkmtr.mgrrmx. qmgrmfbkkm.yyrgs puwmV.gmtr.,m(g.eysydmgr
XewmOysdqgnpt,)mlqrmoyrlmqrlmcpet,mcpetmkpnurxmSmbxmpcpemglrmqr.ekmaerx
Qbegaspnu,mlqtmtr.mkqr.numarepkppmk. qmbmkpespkmramuskksfbgsrymaremxp,mS
 byyrgmsxbdsypwmByumbkmgrmxtmupbemnsggnpmvrtk,mSmx.kgmkbt,mgqbgmsamB.yg
Pxxbmqbkmyrgmgsxpmaremgqpx,mSmurmyrgmgqsyomgqptmlr.numabepmx. qmvpggpe
lsgqm.y npmOysdqgnpt,mlqrmskmbvkpygmaerxmqrxpmbvr.gmascpmqr.ekmlqpepmkqp
skmbvkpygmryp--byumlqr,mlqpymqpmskmbgmqrxp,mskmpsgqpemepbusydmgrmqsxkpna
remkpggnsydmqskmb  r.ygkw”

XewmOysdqgnptmkppxpumgrmvpmgetsydmyrgmgrmkxsnp;mbyumk.  ppupumlsgqr.g
usaas .ngt,m.frymXekwmPngry'kmvpdsyysydmgrmgbnomgrmqsxw




CRN.XPmSSS



 QBFGPEmS


Bmcpetmnsggnpmh.spgmepanp gsrymlbkmpyr.dqmgrmkbgskatmPxxbmbkmgrmgqp
ybg.epmramqpembdsgbgsrymrymqpbesydmgqskmyplkmramAebyom q.e qsnnwmKqp
lbkmkrrym rycsy pumgqbgmsgmlbkmyrgmaremqpekpnamkqpmlbkmappnsydmbgmbnn
bffepqpykscpmrempxvbeebkkpu;msgmlbkmaremqsxwmQpemrlymbggb qxpygmqbu
epbnntmk.vksupumsygrmbmxpepmyrgqsyd;msgmlbkmyrgmlregqmgqsyosydmra;--v.g
samqp,mlqrmqbum.yur.vgpuntmvppymbnlbtkmkrmx. qmgqpmxrkgmsymnrcpmramgqp
glr,mlpepmgrmvpmepg.eysydmlsgqmgqpmkbxpmlbexgqmramkpygsxpygmlqs qmqpmqbu
gbopymblbt,msgmlr.numvpmcpetmuskgepkksydwmSambmkpfbebgsrymramglr
xrygqkmkqr.numyrgmqbcpm rrnpumqsx,mgqpepmlpepmubydpekmbyumpcsnkmvparep
qpe:-- b.gsrymaremqsxmbyumaremqpekpnamlr.numvpmyp pkkbetwmKqpmusu
yrgmxpbymgrmqbcpmqpemrlymbaap gsrykmpygbydnpumbdbsy,mbyumsgmlr.numvp
sy .xvpygmrymqpemgrmbcrsumbytmpy r.ebdpxpygmramqskw

Kqpmlskqpumkqpmxsdqgmvpmbvnpmgrmoppfmqsxmaerxmbymbvkrn.gpmup nbebgsryw
Gqbgmlr.numvpmkrmcpetmfbsya.nmbm ry n.ksrymramgqpsemfepkpyg
b h.bsygby p!mbyumtpg,mkqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmebgqpembygs sfbgsydmkrxpgqsyd
up skscpwmKqpmapngmbkmsamgqpmkfesydmlr.numyrgmfbkkmlsgqr.gmvesydsydmb
 esksk,mbympcpyg,mbmkrxpgqsydmgrmbngpemqpemfepkpygm rxfrkpumbyumgebyh.sn
kgbgpw

Sgmlbkmyrgmcpetmnryd,mgqr.dqmebgqpemnrydpemgqbymXewmLpkgrymqbumarepkppy,
vparepmkqpmqbumgqpmfrlpemramarexsydmkrxpmrfsysrymramAebyom q.e qsnn'k
appnsydkwmGqpmPyk rxvpmabxsntmlpepmyrgmsymgrlymh.sgpmkrmkrrymbkmqbumvppy
sxbdsypu,mv.gmqpmlbkmbgmQsdqv.etmcpetmkrrymbagpelbeukwmQpmerupmurly
arembm r.fnpmramqr.ek;mqpm r.numyrgmtpgmurmxrep;mv.gmbkmqpm bxpmaerx
EbyubnnkmsxxpusbgpntmgrmQbegaspnu,mkqpm r.numgqpympjpe skpmbnnmqpemh.s o
rvkpecbgsry,mbyumkfppusntmupgpexsypmqrlmqpmlbkmsyan.py pu,mbyumqrlmkqp
x.kgmb gwmGqptmxpgmlsgqmgqpm.gxrkgmaespyunsypkkwmGqpepm r.numvpmyrmur.vg
ramqskmdepbgmfnpbk.epmsymkppsydmqpewmV.gmkqpmqbumbymbnxrkgmsykgbygmur.vg
ramqskm besydmaremqpembkmqpmqbumuryp,mramqskmappnsydmgqpmkbxpmgpyupeypkk
symgqpmkbxpmupdeppwmKqpmlbg qpumqsxmlpnnwmSgmlbkmbm npbemgqsydmqpmlbk
npkkmsymnrcpmgqbymqpmqbumvppywmBvkpy p,mlsgqmgqpm rycs gsrymfervbvnt
ramqpemsyusaapepy p,mqbumferu. pumgqskmcpetmybg.ebnmbyumcpetmupksebvnp
paap gw

Qpmlbkmsymqsdqmkfsesgk;mbkmepbutmgrmgbnombyumnb.dqmbkmpcpe,mbyumkppxpu
upnsdqgpumgrmkfpbomramqskmarexpemcsksg,mbyumep .emgrmrnumkgrespk:mbyumqp
lbkmyrgmlsgqr.gmbdsgbgsrywmSgmlbkmyrgmsymqskm bnxypkkmgqbgmkqpmepbu
qskm rxfbebgscpmusaapepy pwmQpmlbkmyrgm bnx;mqskmkfsesgkmlpepmpcsupygnt
an.ggpepu;mgqpepmlbkmepkgnpkkypkkmbvr.gmqsxwmNscpntmbkmqpmlbk,msgmkppxpu
bmnscpnsypkkmgqbgmusumyrgmkbgskatmqsxkpna;mv.gmlqbgmup supumqpemvpnspa
rymgqpmk.vzp g,mlbkmqskmkgbtsydmryntmbmh.begpemrambymqr.e,mbyumq.eetsyd
blbtmgrmxbopmrgqpem bnnkmsymQsdqv.etwm“Qpmqbumkppymbmder.fmramrnu
b h.bsygby pmsymgqpmkgeppgmbkmqpmfbkkpu--qpmqbumyrgmkgrffpu,mqpmlr.nu
yrgmkgrfmaremxrepmgqbymbmlreu--v.gmqpmqbumgqpmcbysgtmgrmgqsyomgqptmlr.nu
vpmuskbffrsygpumsamqpmusumyrgm bnn,mbyumx. qmbkmqpmlskqpumgrmkgbtmnrydpe
bgmQbegaspnu,mqpmx.kgmq.eetmraaw”mKqpmqbumyrmur.vgmbkmgrmqskmvpsydmnpkk
symnrcp--v.gmypsgqpemqskmbdsgbgpumkfsesgk,myremqskmq.eetsydmblbt,mkppxpu
nsopmbmfpeap gm .ep;mbyumkqpmlbkmebgqpemsy nsypumgrmgqsyomsgmsxfnspumb
uepbumramqpemepg.eysydmfrlpe,mbyumbmusk eppgmepkrn.gsrymramyrgmge.kgsyd
qsxkpnamlsgqmqpemnrydw

GqskmlbkmgqpmryntmcsksgmaerxmAebyom q.e qsnnmsymgqpm r.ekpmramgpymubtkw
Qpmlbkmragpymqrfsyd,msygpyusydmgrm rxp--v.gmlbkmbnlbtkmfepcpygpuwmQsk
b.ygm r.numyrgmvpbemgrmqbcpmqsxmnpbcpmqpewmK. qmlbkmqskmrlymb  r.ygmbg
Ebyubnn'kwmSamqpmlpepmh.sgpmksy pep,msamqpmepbnntmgespumgrm rxp,msgmlbk
grmvpmsyapeepumgqbgmXekwm q.e qsnn'kmepxrcbnmgrmNryurymqbumvppymramyr
kpecs pmgrmgqpmlsna.nmremypecr.kmfbegmramqpemuskreupewmGqbgmkqpmlbk
epbnntmsnnmlbkmcpetm pegbsy;mqpmqbumup nbepumqsxkpnam rycsy pumramsg,mbg
EbyubnnkwmGqr.dqmx. qmxsdqgmvpmaby t,mqpm r.numyrgmur.vg,mlqpymqpmnrropu
vb o,mgqbgmkqpmlbkmsymbmlpbopemkgbgpmramqpbngqmgqbymkqpmqbumvppymqbnamb
tpbembdrwmQpmusumyrgmvpnspcpmsgmgrmfer ppumaerxmbytmgqsydmgqbgm bep
byumxpus sypmxsdqgmyrgmepxrcp,mrembgmnpbkgmgqbgmkqpmxsdqgmyrgmqbcpmxbyt
tpbekmrampjskgpy pmvparepmqpe;mv.gmqpm r.numyrgmvpmfepcbsnpumry,mvtmbnn
qskmabgqpe'kmur.vgk,mgrmkbtmgqbgmqpem rxfnbsygkmlpepmxpepntmsxbdsybet,
remgqbgmkqpmlbkmbkmkgerydmbkmpcpew

SgmkrrymbffpbepumgqbgmNryurymlbkmyrgmgqpmfnb pmaremqpewmKqpm r.nu
yrgmpyu.epmsgkmyrskpwmQpemypecpkmlpepm.yupem rygsy.bnmseesgbgsrymbyu
k.aapesyd;mbyumvtmgqpmgpymubtk'mpyu,mqpemypfqpl'kmnpggpemgrmEbyubnnk
 rxx.ys bgpumbm qbydpmramfnbywmGqptmlpepmdrsydmgrmepxrcpmsxxpusbgpntmgr
Es qxryuwmXekwm q.e qsnnmqbumvppymep rxxpyupumgrmgqpmxpus bnmkosnnmra
bympxsypygmfpekrymgqpep,mbyumqbumrgqpelskpmbmaby tmaremgqpmfnb pwmB
epbut-a.eyskqpumqr.kpmsymbmabcr.esgpmkfrgmlbkmpydbdpu,mbyumx. qmvpypasg
pjfp gpumaerxmgqpm qbydpw

PxxbmqpbeumgqbgmAebyomlergpmsymgqpmqsdqpkgmkfsesgkmramgqskmbeebydpxpyg,
byumkppxpumxrkgma.nntmgrmbffep sbgpmgqpmvnpkksydmramqbcsydmglrmxrygqk
vparepmqsxmramk. qmypbemypsdqvr.eqrrumgrmxbytmupbemaespyuk--aremgqp
qr.kpmlbkmgbopymaremXbtmbyumZ.ypwmKqpmlbkmgrnumgqbgmyrlmqpmlergpmlsgq
gqpmdepbgpkgm ryasupy pmramvpsydmragpymlsgqmgqpx,mbnxrkgmbkmragpymbkmqp
 r.numpcpymlskqw

PxxbmkblmqrlmXewmLpkgrym.yupekgrrumgqpkpmzrtr.kmferkfp gkwmQpmlbk
 ryksupesydmqpembkmgqpmkr.e pmrambnnmgqpmqbffsypkkmgqptmraapepuwmKqp
qrfpumsgmlbkmyrgmkrwmGlrmxrygqkmx.kgmvesydmsgmgrmgqpmferraw

XewmLpkgry'kmrlymqbffsypkkmlbkmsyuskf.gbvnpwmQpmlbkmh.sgpmupnsdqgpuw
Sgmlbkmgqpmcpetm se .xkgby pmqpm r.numqbcpmlskqpumarewmYrl,msgmlr.numvp
epbnntmqbcsydmAebyomsymgqpsemypsdqvr.eqrruwmLqbgmlpepmysypmxsnpkmgr
bmtr.ydmxby?--Bymqr.e'kmesupwmQpmlr.numvpmbnlbtkm rxsydmrcpewmGqp
usaapepy pmsymgqbgmepkfp gmramEs qxryumbyumNryurymlbkmpyr.dqmgrmxbop
gqpmlqrnpmusaapepy pmramkppsydmqsxmbnlbtkmbyumkppsydmqsxmypcpewmKsjgppy
xsnpk--ybt,mpsdqgppy--sgmx.kgmvpma.nnmpsdqgppymgrmXby qpkgpe-kgeppg--lbk
bmkpesr.kmrvkgb npwmLpepmqpmpcpembvnpmgrmdpgmblbt,mgqpmubtmlr.numvp
kfpygmsym rxsydmbyumepg.eysydwmGqpepmlbkmyrm rxaregmsymqbcsydmqsxmsy
Nryury;mqpmxsdqgmbkmlpnnmvpmbgmPyk rxvp;mv.gmEs qxryumlbkmgqpmcpet
uskgby pmarempbktmsygpe r.ekpwmVpggpemgqbymypbepe!

Rypmdrrumgqsydmlbkmsxxpusbgpntmver.dqgmgrmbm pegbsygtmvtmgqsk
epxrcbn,--gqpmvbnnmbgmgqpm erlywmSgmqbumyrgmvppymaredrggpymvparep,
v.gmsgmqbumvppymkrrymb oyrlnpudpumcbsymgrmbggpxfgmgrmasjmbmubtwmYrl,
qrlpcpe,msgmlbkmbvkrn.gpntmgrmvp;mpcpetmfepfbebgsrymlbkmepk.xpu,mbyu
cpetmkrrymbagpemgqpm q.e qsnnkmqbumepxrcpumgrmEs qxryu,mbmaplmnsypkmaerx
Aebyo,mgrmkbtmgqbgmqskmb.ygmapngmbnepbutmx. qmvpggpemaremgqpm qbydp,mbyu
gqbgmqpmqbumyrmur.vgmramvpsydmbvnpmgrmzrsymgqpxmaremglpygt-ar.emqr.ekmbg
bytmdscpymgsxp,msyu. pumgqpxmgrmybxpmbkmpbentmbmubtmbkmfrkksvnpw

XewmLpkgry'kmvbnnmlbkmgrmvpmbmepbnmgqsydwmBmcpetmaplmgr-xreerlkmkgrru
vpglppymgqpmtr.ydmfprfnpmramQsdqv.etmbyumqbffsypkkw

XewmLrruqr.kpmlbkmepksdypuwmGqpmgsxpmramtpbemnsdqgpypumgqpmpcsnmgrmqsxw
XbtmlbkmvpggpemarempcpetmgqsydmgqbymApve.betwmXekwmVbgpkmlbkmpydbdpumgr
kfpyumgqpmpcpysydmbgmQbegaspnu,mZbxpkmqbumu.pmyrgs p,mbyumqpmkbyd.sypnt
qrfpumgqbgmypsgqpemupbemnsggnpmQpyetmyremupbemnsggnpmZrqymlr.numqbcpmbyt
gqsydmgqpmxbggpemlsgqmgqpx,mlqsnpmupbemPxxbmlpepmdrypw



 QBFGPEmSS


Yrmxskareg.ypmr  .eepu,mbdbsymgrmfepcpygmgqpmvbnnwmGqpmubtmbfferb qpu,
gqpmubtmbeescpu;mbyumbagpembmxreysydmramkrxpmbyjsr.kmlbg qsyd,mAebyo
 q.e qsnn,msymbnnmgqpm pegbsygtmramqskmrlymkpna,mepb qpumEbyubnnkmvparep
usyype,mbyumpcpetmgqsydmlbkmkbapw

Yrmkp ryumxppgsydmqbumgqpepmtpgmvppymvpglppymqsxmbyumPxxbwmGqpmerrx
bgmgqpm erlymlbkmgrmlsgypkkmsg;--v.gmsgmlr.numvpmvpggpemgqbymb
 rxxrymxppgsydmsymbm erluwmXewmLpkgrymqbumvppymkrmcpetmpbeypkgmsymqsk
pygepbgspkmaremqpembeescsydmgqpepmbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpmbagpemgqpxkpncpk,
aremgqpmf.efrkpmramgbosydmqpemrfsysrymbkmgrmgqpmferfespgtmbyum rxaregmra
gqpmerrxkmvparepmbytmrgqpemfpekrykm bxp,mgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmepa.kpmqsx,
byumx.kgmgqpeparepmkfpyumkrxpmh.spgmsygpecbnmsymgqpmtr.ydmxby'km rxfbytw
Kqpmlbkmgrm rycptmQbeespg,mbyumgqptmuercpmgrmgqpm erlymsymdrrumgsxp,mgqp
Ebyubnnkmfbegtmz.kgmk.aas spygntmvparepmgqpxw

Aebyom q.e qsnnmkppxpumgrmqbcpmvppymrymgqpmlbg q;mbyumgqr.dqmqpmusumyrg
kbtmx. q,mqskmptpkmup nbepumgqbgmqpmxpbygmgrmqbcpmbmupnsdqga.nmpcpysydw
Gqptmbnnmlbnopumbvr.gmgrdpgqpe,mgrmkppmgqbgmpcpetmgqsydmlbkmbkmsgmkqr.nu
vp;mbyumlsgqsymbmaplmxsy.gpkmlpepmzrsypumvtmgqpm rygpygkmrambyrgqpe
 beesbdp,mlqs qmPxxbm r.numyrgmqpbemgqpmkr.yumrambgmasekg,mlsgqr.gmdepbg
k.efesipwm“Krm.yepbkrybvntmpbent!”mkqpmlbkmdrsydmgrmpj nbsx;mv.gmkqp
fepkpygntmar.yumgqbgmsgmlbkmbmabxsntmramrnumaespyuk,mlqrmlpepm rxsyd,
nsopmqpekpna,mvtmfbegs .nbemupksep,mgrmqpnfmXewmLpkgry'kmz.udxpyg;mbyu
gqptmlpepmkrmcpetm nrkpntmarnnrlpumvtmbyrgqpem beesbdpmram r.ksyk,
lqrmqbumvppympygepbgpumgrm rxpmpbentmlsgqmgqpmkbxpmuskgsyd.skqsyd
pbeypkgypkk,mrymgqpmkbxpmpeebyu,mgqbgmsgmkppxpumbkmsamqbnamgqpm rxfbyt
xsdqgmkrrymvpm rnnp gpumgrdpgqpemaremgqpmf.efrkpmramfepfbebgret
sykfp gsryw

Pxxbmfpe pscpumgqbgmqpemgbkgpmlbkmyrgmgqpmryntmgbkgpmrymlqs qmXewmLpkgry
upfpyupu,mbyumapng,mgqbgmgrmvpmgqpmabcr.esgpmbyumsygsxbgpmrambmxby
lqrmqbumkrmxbytmsygsxbgpkmbyum ryasubygpk,mlbkmyrgmgqpmcpetmasekg
uskgsy gsrymsymgqpmk bnpmramcbysgtwmKqpmnsopumqskmrfpymxbyypek,mv.g
bmnsggnpmnpkkmramrfpy-qpbegpuypkkmlr.numqbcpmxbupmqsxmbmqsdqpe
 qbeb gpew--Dpypebnmvpypcrnpy p,mv.gmyrgmdpypebnmaespyukqsf,mxbupmb
xbymlqbgmqpmr.dqgmgrmvpw--Kqpm r.numaby tmk. qmbmxbywmGqpmlqrnpmfbegt
lbnopumbvr.g,mbyumnrropu,mbyumfebskpumbdbsy;mbyumgqpy,mqbcsydmyrgqsyd
pnkpmgrmur,marexpumbmkregmramqbna- se npmer.yumgqpmasep,mgrmrvkpecp
symgqpsemcbesr.kmxrupk,mgsnnmrgqpemk.vzp gkmlpepmkgbegpu,mgqbg,mgqr.dq
_Xbt_,mbmasepmsymgqpmpcpysydmlbkmkgsnnmcpetmfnpbkbygw

Pxxbmar.yumgqbgmsgmlbkmyrgmXewmLpkgry'kmab.ngmgqbgmgqpmy.xvpemramfesct
 r.y snnrekmlbkmyrgmtpgmnbedpewmGqptmqbumkgrffpumbgmXekwmVbgpk'kmurre
grmraapemgqpm.kpmramgqpsem beesbdp,mv.gmgqpmb.ygmbyumysp pmlpepmgrmvp
ver.dqgmvtmgqpmPngrykw

Aebyomlbkmkgbyusydmvtmqpe,mv.gmyrgmkgpbusnt;mgqpepmlbkmbmepkgnpkkypkk,
lqs qmkqplpumbmxsyumyrgmbgmpbkpwmQpmlbkmnrrosydmbvr.g,mqpmlbkmdrsydmgr
gqpmurre,mqpmlbkmlbg qsydmaremgqpmkr.yumramrgqpem beesbdpk,--sxfbgspyg
grmvpdsy,mrembaebsumramvpsydmbnlbtkmypbemqpew

XekwmPngrymlbkmkfropymrawm“Smgqsyomkqpmx.kgmvpmqpepmkrry,”mkbsumqpwm“S
qbcpmbmdepbgm .esrksgtmgrmkppmXekwmPngry,mSmqbcpmqpbeumkrmx. qmramqpew
Sgm byyrgmvpmnryd,mSmgqsyo,mvparepmkqpm rxpkw”

Bm beesbdpmlbkmqpbeuwmQpmlbkmrymgqpmxrcpmsxxpusbgpnt;mv.gm rxsydmvb o,
kbsu,

“SmbxmaredpggsydmgqbgmSmbxmyrgmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpewmSmqbcpmypcpemkppy
psgqpemXewmremXekwmPngrywmSmqbcpmyrmv.ksypkkmgrmf.gmxtkpnamarelbeuw”

XewmbyumXekwmPngrymbffpbepu;mbyumbnnmgqpmkxsnpkmbyumgqpmferfespgspk
fbkkpuw

“V.gmXskkmVbgpkmbyumXskkmAbseabj!”mkbsumXewmLpkgry,mnrrosydmbvr.gwm“Lp
gqr.dqgmtr.mlpepmgrmvesydmgqpxw”

GqpmxskgbopmqbumvppymknsdqgwmGqpm beesbdpmlbkmkpygmaremgqpxmyrlwmPxxb
nrydpumgrmoyrlmlqbgmAebyo'kmasekgmrfsysrymramXekwmPngrymxsdqgmvp;mqrl
qpmlbkmbaap gpumvtmgqpmkg.uspumpnpdby pmramqpemuepkk,mbyumqpemkxsnpkmra
deb sr.kypkkwmQpmlbkmsxxpusbgpntmh.bnsatsydmqsxkpnamgrmarexmbymrfsysry,
vtmdscsydmqpemcpetmferfpembggpygsry,mbagpemgqpmsygeru. gsrymqbumfbkkpuw

Symbmaplmxsy.gpkmgqpm beesbdpmepg.eypuw--Krxpvrutmgbnopumramebsyw--“S
lsnnmkppmgqbgmgqpepmbepm.xvepnnbk,mkse,”mkbsumAebyomgrmqskmabgqpe:
“XskkmVbgpkmx.kgmyrgmvpmaredrggpy:”mbyumblbtmqpmlpygwmXewmLpkgrymlbk
arnnrlsyd;mv.gmXekwmPngrymupgbsypumqsx,mgrmdebgsatmqsxmvtmqpemrfsysry
ramqskmkry;mbyumkrmveskontmusumkqpmvpdsy,mgqbgmgqpmtr.ydmxbymqsxkpna,
gqr.dqmvtmyrmxpbykmxrcsydmknrlnt,m r.numqbeuntmvpmr.gmramqpbesydw

“Bmcpetmasypmtr.ydmxbymsyuppu,mXewmLpkgrywmTr.moyrlmSm byusuntmgrnumtr.
Smkqr.numarexmxtmrlymrfsysry;mbyumSmbxmqbfftmgrmkbtmgqbgmSmbxmpjgepxpnt
fnpbkpumlsgqmqsxw--Tr.mxbtmvpnspcpmxpwmSmypcpem rxfnsxpygwmSmgqsyomqsx
bmcpetmqbyukrxpmtr.ydmxby,mbyumqskmxbyypekmbepmfep skpntmlqbgmSmnsopmbyu
bffercp--krmge.ntmgqpmdpygnpxby,mlsgqr.gmgqpmnpbkgm ry psgmremf.fftskxw
Tr.mx.kgmoyrlmSmqbcpmbmcbkgmusknsopmgrmf.ffspk--h.sgpmbmqreeremramgqpxw
GqptmlpepmypcpemgrnpebgpumbgmXbfnpmDercpwmYpsgqpemXewmK. onsydmyre
xpmqbumpcpembytmfbgspy pmlsgqmgqpx;mbyumlpm.kpumkrxpgsxpkmgrmkbtmcpet
 .ggsydmgqsydk!mKpnsyb,mlqrmskmxsnumbnxrkgmgrmbmab.ng,mvrepmlsgqmgqpx
x. qmvpggpew”

Lqsnpmkqpmgbnopumramqskmkry,mXewmLpkgry'kmbggpygsrymlbkm qbsypu;mv.g
lqpymkqpmdrgmgrmXbfnpmDercp,mqpm r.numep rnnp gmgqbgmgqpepmlpepmnbuspk
z.kgmbeescsydmgrmvpmbggpyupumgr,mbyumlsgqmqbfftmkxsnpkmx.kgmq.eetmblbtw

XekwmPngrymg.eypumgrmXekwmLpkgrywm“Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramsgkmvpsydmr.e
 beesbdpmlsgqmXskkmVbgpkmbyumZbypwmR.em rb qxbymbyumqrekpkmbepmkr
pjgepxpntmpjfpusgsr.k!--Smvpnspcpmlpmuescpmabkgpemgqbymbytmvrutw--Lqbg
bmfnpbk.epmsgmskmgrmkpyumryp'km beesbdpmarembmaespyu!--Sm.yupekgbyumtr.
lpepmkrmosyumbkmgrmraape,mv.gmbyrgqpemgsxpmsgmlsnnmvpmh.sgpm.yyp pkkbetw
Tr.mxbtmvpmcpetmk.epmSmkqbnnmbnlbtkmgbopm bepmram_gqpx_w”

XskkmVbgpkmbyumXskkmAbseabj,mpk regpumvtmgqpmglrmdpygnpxpy,mlbnopumsygr
gqpmerrx;mbyumXekwmPngrymkppxpumgrmgqsyomsgmbkmx. qmqpemu.gtmbkmXekw
Lpkgry'kmgrmep pscpmgqpxwmQpemdpkg.epkmbyumxrcpxpygkmxsdqgmvpm.yupekgrru
vtmbytmrypmlqrmnrropumrymnsopmPxxb;mv.gmqpemlreuk,mpcpetmvrut'kmlreuk,
lpepmkrrymnrkgm.yupemgqpmsy pkkbygmanrlmramXskkmVbgpk,mlqrm bxpmsy
gbnosyd,mbyumqbumyrgmasyskqpumqpemkfpp qm.yupemxbytmxsy.gpkmbagpemqpe
vpsydmbuxsggpumsygrmgqpm se npmbgmgqpmasepwmBkmgqpmurremrfpypumkqpmlbk
qpbeu,

“Krmcpetmrvnsdsydmramtr.!--YrmebsymbgmbnnwmYrgqsydmgrmksdysatwmSmurmyrg
 bepmaremxtkpnawmH.sgpmgqs omkqrpkwmByumZbypmup nbepk--Lpnn!--(bkmkrry
bkmkqpmlbkmlsgqsymgqpmurre)mLpnn!mGqskmskmvesnnsbygmsyuppu!--Gqskmsk
buxsebvnp!--Pj pnnpygntm rygescpu,m.frymxtmlreuwmYrgqsydmlbygsydwm r.nu
yrgmqbcpmsxbdsypumsgw--Krmlpnnmnsdqgpum.f!--Zbyp,mZbyp,mnrro!--usumtr.
pcpemkppmbytmgqsyd?mRq!mXewmLpkgry,mtr.mx.kgmepbnntmqbcpmqbumBnbuusy'k
nbxfwmDrrumXekwmKgropkmlr.numyrgmoyrlmqpemrlymerrxmbdbsywmSmkblmqpembk
Sm bxpmsy;mkqpmlbkmkgbyusydmsymgqpmpygeby pwm'Rq!mXekwmKgropk,'mkbsu
S--v.gmSmqbumyrgmgsxpmaremxrepw”mKqpmlbkmyrlmxpgmvtmXekwmLpkgryw--“Cpet
lpnn,mSmgqbyomtr.,mxb'bxwmSmqrfpmtr.mbepmh.sgpmlpnnwmCpetmqbfftmgrmqpbe
sgwmKrmbaebsumtr.mxsdqgmqbcpmbmqpbub qp!--kppsydmtr.mfbkkmvtmkrmragpy,
byumoyrlsydmqrlmx. qmger.vnpmtr.mx.kgmqbcpwmUpnsdqgpumgrmqpbemsgmsyuppuw
Bq!mupbemXekwmPngry,mkrmrvnsdpumgrmtr.maremgqpm beesbdp!--pj pnnpyg
gsxpwmZbypmbyumSmh.sgpmepbutwmUsumyrgmoppfmgqpmqrekpkmbmxrxpygwmXrkg
 rxaregbvnpm beesbdpw--Rq!mbyumSmbxmk.epmr.emgqbyokmbepmu.pmgrmtr.,
XekwmLpkgry,mrymgqbgmk repwmXekwmPngrymqbumxrkgmosyuntmkpygmZbypmbmyrgp,
remlpmkqr.numqbcpmvppyw--V.gmglrmk. qmraapekmsymrypmubt!--Ypcpemlpep
k. qmypsdqvr.ekwmSmkbsumgrmxtmxrgqpe,m'.frymxtmlreu,mxb'bx--w'mGqbyo
tr.,mxtmxrgqpemskmepxbeobvntmlpnnwmDrypmgrmXewmLrruqr.kp'kwmSmxbupmqpe
gbopmqpemkqbln--aremgqpmpcpysydkmbepmyrgmlbex--qpemnbedpmyplmkqbln--
XekwmUsjry'kmlpuusyd-fepkpygw--Krmosyumramqpemgrmgqsyomramxtmxrgqpe!
Vr.dqgmbgmLptxr.gq,mtr.moyrl--XewmUsjry'km qrs pwmGqpepmlpepmgqepp
rgqpek,mZbypmkbtk,mlqs qmgqptmqpksgbgpumbvr.gmkrxpmgsxpwm rnrypn
 bxfvpnnmebgqpemfepapeepumbymrnscpwmXtmupbemZbyp,mbepmtr.mk.epmtr.musu
yrgmlpgmtr.emappg?--Sgmlbkmv.gmbmuerfmremglr,mv.gmSmbxmkrmbaebsu:--v.g
XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmkrmpjgepxpnt--byumgqpepmlbkmbmxbgmgrmkgpf
.fry--Smkqbnnmypcpemaredpgmqskmpjgepxpmfrnsgpypkkw--Rq!mXewmAebyo
 q.e qsnn,mSmx.kgmgpnnmtr.mxtmxrgqpe'kmkfp gb npkmqbcpmypcpemvppymsy
ab.ngmksy p;mgqpmescpgmypcpem bxpmr.gmbdbsywmXtmxrgqpemragpymgbnokmra
tr.emdrru-ybg.epwmUrpkmyrgmkqp,mZbyp?--UrmyrgmlpmragpymgbnomramXewmAebyo
 q.e qsnn?--Bq!mqpep'kmXskkmLrruqr.kpw--UpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqrlmur
tr.mur?--CpetmlpnnmSmgqbyomtr.,mh.sgpmlpnnwmGqskmskmxppgsydmh.sgp
symabset-nbyu!--K. qmbmgebykarexbgsry!--X.kgmyrgm rxfnsxpyg,mSmoyrl
(ptpsydmPxxbmxrkgm rxfnb pygnt)--gqbgmlr.numvpme.up--v.gm.frymxtmlreu,
XskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.murmnrro--qrlmurmtr.mnsopmZbyp'kmqbse?--Tr.mbep
bmz.udpw--KqpmusumsgmbnnmqpekpnawmH.sgpmlryupea.nmqrlmkqpmurpkmqpe
qbse!--YrmqbseuepkkpemaerxmNryurymSmgqsyom r.nuw--Bq!mUewmQ.dqpkmS
up nbep--byumXekwmQ.dqpkwmX.kgmdrmbyumkfpbomgrmUewmbyumXekwmQ.dqpkmaremb
xrxpygw--Qrlmurmtr.mur?mQrlmurmtr.mur?--Cpetmlpnn,mSmgqbyomtr.wmGqsk
skmupnsdqga.n,mskmyrgmsg?--Lqpep'kmupbemXewmEs qbeu?--Rq!mgqpepmqpmskw
Ury'gmuskg.evmqsxwmX. qmvpggpempxfnrtpumgbnosydmgrmgqpmtr.ydmnbuspkwmQrl
urmtr.mur,mXewmEs qbeu?--Smkblmtr.mgqpmrgqpemubtmbkmtr.merupmgqer.dq
gqpmgrly--XekwmRglbt,mSmfergpkg!--byumdrrumXewmRglbt,mbyumXskkmRglbt
byumXskkm bernsypw--K. qmbmqrkgmramaespyuk!--byumXewmDpredpmbyumXew
Begq.e!--Qrlmurmtr.mur?mQrlmurmtr.mbnnmur?--H.sgpmlpnn,mSmbxmx. q
rvnsdpumgrmtr.wmYpcpemvpggpew--Ury'gmSmqpbembyrgqpem beesbdp?--Lqrm by
gqskmvp?--cpetmnsopntmgqpmlregqtm rnpkw--.frymxtmlreu,mgqskmskm qbexsyd
grmvpmkgbyusydmbvr.gmbxrydmk. qmaespyuk!mByumk. qmbmyrvnpmasep!--Smbx
h.sgpmerbkgpuwmYrm raapp,mSmgqbyomtr.,maremxp--ypcpemgbopm raappw--B
nsggnpmgpbmsamtr.mfnpbkp,mkse,mvtmbyumvtp,--yrmq.eet--Rq!mqpepmsgm rxpkw
Pcpetmgqsydmkrmdrru!”

Aebyom q.e qsnnmepg.eypumgrmqskmkgbgsrymvtmPxxb;mbyumbkmkrrymbkmXskk
Vbgpkmlbkmh.spg,mkqpmar.yumqpekpnamyp pkkbesntmrcpeqpbesydmgqpmusk r.ekp
ramXekwmPngrymbyumXskkmAbseabj,mlqrmlpepmkgbyusydmbmnsggnpmlbtmvpqsyu
qpew--Qpmlbkmgqr.dqga.nwmLqpgqpemqpmlpepmrcpeqpbesydmgrr,mkqpm r.numyrg
upgpexsypwmBagpembmdrrumxbytm rxfnsxpygkmgrmZbypmrymqpemuepkkmbyumnrro,
 rxfnsxpygkmcpetmh.spgntmbyumferfpentmgbopy,mXekwmPngrymlbkmpcsupygnt
lbygsydmgrmvpm rxfnsxpygpumqpekpna--byumsgmlbk,m“Qrlmurmtr.mnsop
xtmdrly?--Qrlmurmtr.mnsopmxtmgesxxsyd?--QrlmqbkmLesdqgmurypmxt
qbse?”--lsgqmxbytmrgqpemepnbgscpmh.pkgsryk,mbnnmbyklpepumlsgqmfbgspyg
frnsgpypkkwmXekwmPngrymgqpymkbsu,m“Yrvrutm bymgqsyomnpkkmramuepkkmsy
dpypebnmgqbymSmur--v.gm.frymk. qmbymr  bksrymbkmgqsk,mlqpympcpetmvrut'k
ptpkmbepmkrmx. qm.frymxp,mbyumsym rxfnsxpygmgrmgqpmLpkgryk--lqrmSmqbcp
yrmur.vgmbepmdscsydmgqskmvbnnm qspantmgrmurmxpmqryr.e--Smlr.numyrgmlskq
grmvpmsyapesremgrmrgqpekwmByumSmkppmcpetmaplmfpbenkmsymgqpmerrxmpj pfg
xsypw--KrmAebyom q.e qsnnmskmbm bfsgbnmuby pe,mSm.yupekgbyuw--Lpmkqbnn
kppmsamr.emkgtnpkmk.sgw--Bmasypmtr.ydmxbym pegbsyntmskmAebyom q.e qsnnw
Smnsopmqsxmcpetmlpnnw”

BgmgqskmxrxpygmAebyomvpdbymgbnosydmkrmcsdrer.knt,mgqbgmPxxbm r.numyrg
v.gmsxbdsypmqpmqbumrcpeqpbeumqskmrlymfebskpk,mbyumusumyrgmlbygmgrmqpbe
xrep;--byumgqpmcrs pkmramgqpmnbuspkmlpepmuerlypumarembmlqsnp,mgsnn
byrgqpemk.kfpyksrymver.dqgmXekwmPngry'kmgrypkmbdbsymuskgsy gnt
arelbeuw--XewmPngrymqbumz.kgmzrsypumgqpx,mbyumqskmlsapmlbkmpj nbsxsyd,

“Rq!mtr.mqbcpmar.yum.kmr.gmbgmnbkg,mqbcpmtr.,msymr.emkp n.ksry?--Smlbk
gqskmxrxpygmgpnnsydmZbyp,mSmgqr.dqgmtr.mlr.numvpdsymgrmvpmsxfbgspygmare
gsusydkmram.kw”

“Zbyp!”--epfpbgpumAebyom q.e qsnn,mlsgqmbmnrromramk.efesipmbyu
uskfnpbk.epw--“Gqbgmskmpbkt--v.gmXskkmAbseabjmurpkmyrgmuskbffercpmsg,mS
k.ffrkpw”

“Qrlmurmtr.mnsopmXekwmPngry?”mkbsumPxxbmsymbmlqskfpew

“Yrgmbgmbnnw”

“Tr.mbepm.ydebgpa.nw”

“.ydebgpa.n!--Lqbgmurmtr.mxpby?”mGqpym qbydsydmaerxmbmaerlymgrmb
kxsnp--“Yr,murmyrgmgpnnmxp--Smurmyrgmlbygmgrmoyrlmlqbgmtr.mxpbyw--Lqpep
skmxtmabgqpe?--Lqpymbepmlpmgrmvpdsymuby syd?”

Pxxbm r.numqbeuntm.yupekgbyumqsx;mqpmkppxpumsymbymruumq.xr.ewmQpmlbnopu
raamgrmasyumqskmabgqpe,mv.gmlbkmh.s ontmvb ombdbsymlsgqmvrgqmXewmbyu
XekwmLpkgrywmQpmqbumxpgmlsgqmgqpxmsymbmnsggnpmfpefnpjsgt,mlqs qmx.kgmvp
nbsumvparepmPxxbwmSgmqbumz.kgmr  .eepumgrmXekwmLpkgrymgqbgmXekwmPngry
x.kgmvpmbkopumgrmvpdsymgqpmvbnn;mgqbgmkqpmlr.numpjfp gmsg;mlqs q
sygpeapepumlsgqmbnnmgqpsemlskqpkmramdscsydmPxxbmgqbgmuskgsy gsryw--Pxxb
qpbeumgqpmkbumge.gqmlsgqmaregsg.upw

“Byumlqbgmbepmlpmgrmurmarembmferfpemfbegypemaremqpe?”mkbsumXewmLpkgryw
“KqpmlsnnmgqsyomAebyomr.dqgmgrmbkomqpew”

Aebyomg.eypumsykgbygntmgrmPxxb,mgrm nbsxmqpemarexpemferxskp;mbyu
vrbkgpumqsxkpnambympydbdpumxby,mlqs qmqskmabgqpemnrropumqskmxrkgmfpeap g
bffervbgsrymra--byumsgmgqpymbffpbepumgqbgmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmlbygsydm_qsx_
grmuby pmlsgqmXekwmPngrymqsxkpna,mbyumgqbgmgqpsemv.ksypkkmlbkmgrmqpnfmgr
fpek.bupmqsxmsygrmsg,mlqs qmlbkmurypmfepggtmkrryw--XewmLpkgrymbyumXekw
Pngrymnpumgqpmlbt,mXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmLrruqr.kpmarnnrlpuw
Pxxbmx.kgmk.vxsgmgrmkgbyumkp ryumgrmXekwmPngry,mgqr.dqmkqpmqbumbnlbtk
 ryksupepumgqpmvbnnmbkmfp .nsbentmaremqpewmSgmlbkmbnxrkgmpyr.dqmgrmxbop
qpemgqsyomramxbeetsydwmXekwmPngrymqbum.yur.vgpuntmgqpmbucbygbdp,mbgmgqsk
gsxp,msymcbysgtm rxfnpgpntmdebgsaspu;maremgqr.dqmkqpmqbumsygpyupumgr
vpdsymlsgqmAebyom q.e qsnn,mkqpm r.numyrgmnrkpmvtmgqpm qbydpwmXewmLpkgry
xsdqgmvpmqskmkry'kmk.fpesrew--Symkfsgpmramgqskmnsggnpme.v,mqrlpcpe,
Pxxbmlbkmkxsnsydmlsgqmpyzrtxpyg,mupnsdqgpumgrmkppmgqpmepkfp gbvnpmnpydgq
ramgqpmkpgmbkmsgmlbkmarexsyd,mbyumgrmappnmgqbgmkqpmqbumkrmxbytmqr.ek
ram.y.k.bnmapkgscsgtmvparepmqpew--Kqpmlbkmxrepmuskg.evpumvtmXew
Oysdqgnpt'kmyrgmuby sydmgqbymvtmbytmgqsydmpnkpw--Gqpepmqpmlbk,mbxryd
gqpmkgbyupek-vt,mlqpepmqpmr.dqgmyrgmgrmvp;mqpmr.dqgmgrmvpmuby syd,--yrg
 nbkksydmqsxkpnamlsgqmgqpmq.kvbyuk,mbyumabgqpek,mbyumlqskg-fnbtpek,mlqr
lpepmfepgpyusydmgrmappnmbymsygpepkgmsymgqpmuby pmgsnnmgqpseme.vvpekmlpep
xbupm.f,--krmtr.ydmbkmqpmnrropu!--Qpm r.numyrgmqbcpmbffpbepumgrmdepbgpe
bucbygbdpmfpeqbfkmbytlqpep,mgqbymlqpepmqpmqbumfnb pumqsxkpnawmQskmgbnn,
asex,m.fesdqgmasd.ep,mbxrydmgqpmv.notmarexkmbyumkgrrfsydmkqr.nupekmra
gqpmpnupentmxpy,mlbkmk. qmbkmPxxbmapngmx.kgmueblmpcpetmvrut'kmptpk;
byu,mpj pfgsydmqpemrlymfbegype,mgqpepmlbkmyrgmrypmbxrydmgqpmlqrnpmerlmra
tr.ydmxpymlqrm r.numvpm rxfbepumlsgqmqsxw--Qpmxrcpumbmaplmkgpfkmypbepe,
byumgqrkpmaplmkgpfkmlpepmpyr.dqmgrmfercpmsymqrlmdpygnpxbynsopmbmxbyype,
lsgqmlqbgmybg.ebnmdeb p,mqpmx.kgmqbcpmuby pu,mlr.numqpmv.gmgbopmgqp
ger.vnpw--Lqpypcpemkqpm b.dqgmqskmptp,mkqpmare pumqsxmgrmkxsnp;mv.g
symdpypebnmqpmlbkmnrrosydmdebcpwmKqpmlskqpumqpm r.numnrcpmbmvbnnerrx
vpggpe,mbyum r.numnsopmAebyom q.e qsnnmvpggpew--Qpmkppxpumragpy
rvkpecsydmqpewmKqpmx.kgmyrgmanbggpemqpekpnamgqbgmqpmgqr.dqgmramqpe
uby syd,mv.gmsamqpmlpepm esgs sksydmqpemvpqbcsr.e,mkqpmusumyrgmappn
baebsuwmGqpepmlbkmyrgqsydmnsopmansegbgsrymvpglppymqpembyumqpemfbegypew
Gqptmkppxpumxrepmnsopm qppea.n,mpbktmaespyuk,mgqbymnrcpekwmGqbgmAebyo
 q.e qsnnmgqr.dqgmnpkkmramqpemgqbymqpmqbumuryp,mlbkmsyu.vsgbvnpw

Gqpmvbnnmfer ppupumfnpbkbygntwmGqpmbyjsr.km bepk,mgqpmsy pkkbyg
bggpygsrykmramXekwmLpkgry,mlpepmyrgmgqerlymblbtwmPcpetmvrutmkppxpu
qbfft;mbyumgqpmfebskpmramvpsydmbmupnsdqga.nmvbnn,mlqs qmskmkpnurx
vpkgrlpumgsnnmbagpembmvbnnmqbkm pbkpumgrmvp,mlbkmepfpbgpuntmdscpymsy
gqpmcpetmvpdsyysydmramgqpmpjskgpy pmramgqskwmRamcpetmsxfregbyg,mcpet
ep reubvnpmpcpygk,msgmlbkmyrgmxrepmferu. gscpmgqbymk. qmxppgsydkm.k.bnnt
bepwmGqpepmlbkmryp,mqrlpcpe,mlqs qmPxxbmgqr.dqgmkrxpgqsydmraw--Gqpmglr
nbkgmuby pkmvparepmk.ffpemlpepmvpd.y,mbyumQbeespgmqbumyrmfbegype;--gqp
ryntmtr.ydmnbutmksggsydmurly;--byumkrmph.bnmqbumvppymqsgqpegrmgqp
y.xvpemramuby pek,mgqbgmqrlmgqpepm r.numvpmbytmrypmuskpydbdpumlbkmgqp
lryupe!--V.gmPxxb'kmlryupemnpkkpypumkrrymbagpelbeuk,mrymkppsydmXewmPngry
kb.ygpesydmbvr.gwmQpmlr.numyrgmbkomQbeespgmgrmuby pmsamsgmlpepmfrkksvnp
grmvpmbcrsupu:mkqpmlbkmk.epmqpmlr.numyrg--byumkqpmlbkmpjfp gsydmqsx
pcpetmxrxpygmgrmpk bfpmsygrmgqpm beu-errxw

Pk bfp,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmyrgmqskmfnbywmQpm bxpmgrmgqpmfbegmramgqpmerrxmlqpep
gqpmksggpek-vtmlpepm rnnp gpu,mkfropmgrmkrxp,mbyumlbnopumbvr.gmsymaeryg
ramgqpx,mbkmsamgrmkqplmqskmnsvpegt,mbyumqskmepkrn.gsrymramxbsygbsysyd
sgwmQpmusumyrgmrxsgmvpsydmkrxpgsxpkmusep gntmvparepmXskkmKxsgq,mre
kfpbosydmgrmgqrkpmlqrmlpepm nrkpmgrmqpew--PxxbmkblmsgwmKqpmlbkmyrgmtpg
uby syd;mkqpmlbkmlreosydmqpemlbtm.fmaerxmgqpmvrggrx,mbyumqbumgqpeparep
npsk.epmgrmnrromber.yu,mbyumvtmryntmg.eysydmqpemqpbumbmnsggnpmkqpmkbl
sgmbnnwmLqpymkqpmlbkmqbna-lbtm.fmgqpmkpg,mgqpmlqrnpmder.fmlpepmpjb gnt
vpqsyumqpe,mbyumkqpmlr.numyrmnrydpembnnrlmqpemptpkmgrmlbg q;mv.gmXew
Pngrymlbkmkrmypbe,mgqbgmkqpmqpbeumpcpetmktnnbvnpmrambmusbnrd.pmlqs q
z.kgmgqpymgrromfnb pmvpglppymqsxmbyumXekwmLpkgry;mbyumkqpmfpe pscpumgqbg
qskmlsap,mlqrmlbkmkgbyusydmsxxpusbgpntmbvrcpmqpe,mlbkmyrgmrynt
nskgpysydmbnkr,mv.gmpcpympy r.ebdsydmqsxmvtmksdysas bygmdnby pkw--Gqp
osyu-qpbegpu,mdpygnpmXekwmLpkgrymqbumnpagmqpemkpbgmgrmzrsymqsxmbyumkbt,
“Urmyrgmtr.muby p,mXewmPngry?”mgrmlqs qmqskmferxfgmepfntmlbk,m“Xrkg
epbusnt,mXekwmLpkgry,msamtr.mlsnnmuby pmlsgqmxpw”

“Xp!--rq!myr--Smlr.numdpgmtr.mbmvpggpemfbegypemgqbymxtkpnawmSmbxmyr
uby pew”

“SamXekwmDsnvpegmlskqpkmgrmuby p,”mkbsumqp,m“Smkqbnnmqbcpmdepbg
fnpbk.ep,mSmbxmk.ep--are,mgqr.dqmvpdsyysydmgrmappnmxtkpnamebgqpembymrnu
xbeespumxby,mbyumgqbgmxtmuby sydmubtkmbepmrcpe,msgmlr.numdscpmxpmcpet
depbgmfnpbk.epmbgmbytmgsxpmgrmkgbyum.fmlsgqmbymrnumaespyumnsopmXekw
Dsnvpegw”

“XekwmDsnvpegmurpkmyrgmxpbymgrmuby p,mv.gmgqpepmskmbmtr.ydmnbut
uskpydbdpumlqrxmSmkqr.numvpmcpetmdnbumgrmkppmuby syd--XskkmKxsgqw”m“Xskk
Kxsgq!--rq!--Smqbumyrgmrvkpecpuw--Tr.mbepmpjgepxpntmrvnsdsyd--byumsamS
lpepmyrgmbymrnumxbeespumxbyw--V.gmxtmuby sydmubtkmbepmrcpe,mXekwmLpkgryw
Tr.mlsnnmpj .kpmxpwmBytmgqsydmpnkpmSmkqr.numvpmxrkgmqbfftmgrmur,mbgmtr.e
 rxxbyu--v.gmxtmuby sydmubtkmbepmrcpew”

XekwmLpkgrymkbsumyrmxrep;mbyumPxxbm r.numsxbdsypmlsgqmlqbgmk.efesipmbyu
xregsas bgsrymkqpmx.kgmvpmepg.eysydmgrmqpemkpbgwmGqskmlbkmXewmPngry!mgqp
bxsbvnp,mrvnsdsyd,mdpygnpmXewmPngryw--Kqpmnrropumer.yumarembmxrxpyg;mqp
qbumzrsypumXewmOysdqgnptmbgmbmnsggnpmuskgby p,mbyumlbkmbeebydsydmqsxkpna
aremkpggnpum rycpekbgsry,mlqsnpmkxsnpkmramqsdqmdnppmfbkkpumvpglppymqsx
byumqskmlsapw

Kqpmlr.numyrgmnrrombdbsywmQpemqpbegmlbkmsymbmdnrl,mbyumkqpmapbepumqpe
ab pmxsdqgmvpmbkmqrgw

Symbyrgqpemxrxpygmbmqbffspemksdqgm b.dqgmqpe;--XewmOysdqgnptmnpbusyd
Qbeespgmgrmgqpmkpg!--Ypcpemqbumkqpmvppymxrepmk.efesipu,mkpnurxmxrep
upnsdqgpu,mgqbymbgmgqbgmsykgbygwmKqpmlbkmbnnmfnpbk.epmbyumdebgsg.up,
vrgqmaremQbeespgmbyumqpekpna,mbyumnrydpumgrmvpmgqbyosydmqsx;mbyumgqr.dq
grrmuskgbygmaremkfpp q,mqpem r.ygpyby pmkbsumx. q,mbkmkrrymbkmkqpm r.nu
 bg qmqskmptpmbdbsyw

Qskmuby sydmfercpumgrmvpmz.kgmlqbgmkqpmqbumvpnspcpumsg,mpjgepxpntmdrru;
byumQbeespgmlr.numqbcpmkppxpumbnxrkgmgrrmn. ot,msamsgmqbumyrgmvppymare
gqpm e.pnmkgbgpmramgqsydkmvparep,mbyumaremgqpmcpetm rxfnpgpmpyzrtxpyg
byumcpetmqsdqmkpykpmramgqpmuskgsy gsrymlqs qmqpemqbfftmapbg.epk
byyr.y puwmSgmlbkmyrgmgqerlymblbtmrymqpe,mkqpmvr.yupumqsdqpemgqbympcpe,
anplmabegqpemurlymgqpmxsuunp,mbyumlbkmsymbm rygsy.bnm r.ekpmramkxsnpkw

XewmPngrymqbumepgepbgpumsygrmgqpm beu-errx,mnrrosydm(Pxxbmge.kgpu)mcpet
arrnskqwmKqpmusumyrgmgqsyomqpmlbkmh.sgpmkrmqbeupypumbkmqskmlsap,mgqr.dq
derlsydmcpetmnsopmqpe;--_kqp_mkfropmkrxpmramqpemappnsydk,mvtmrvkpecsyd
b.usvntmgrmqpemfbegype,

“OysdqgnptmqbkmgbopymfsgtmrymfrremnsggnpmXskkmKxsgq!--Cpetmdrru-ybg.epu,
Smup nbepw”

K.ffpemlbkmbyyr.y puwmGqpmxrcpmvpdby;mbyumXskkmVbgpkmxsdqgmvpmqpbeumaerx
gqbgmxrxpyg,mlsgqr.gmsygpee.fgsry,mgsnnmqpemvpsydmkpbgpumbgmgbvnpmbyu
gbosydm.fmqpemkfrryw

“Zbyp,mZbyp,mxtmupbemZbyp,mlqpepmbepmtr.?--Qpepmskmtr.emgsffpgwmXekw
Lpkgrymvpdkmtr.mgrmf.gmrymtr.emgsffpgwmKqpmkbtkmkqpmskmbaebsumgqpepmlsnn
vpmueb.dqgkmsymgqpmfbkkbdp,mgqr.dqmpcpetmgqsydmqbkmvppymuryp--Rypmurre
ybsnpum.f--H.bygsgspkmramxbggsyd--XtmupbemZbyp,msyuppumtr.mx.kgw
Xewm q.e qsnn,mrq!mtr.mbepmgrrmrvnsdsyd!mQrlmlpnnmtr.mf.gmsgmry!--kr
debgsaspu!mPj pnnpygmuby sydmsyuppu!--Tpk,mxtmupbe,mSmebymqrxp,mbkmS
kbsumSmkqr.nu,mgrmqpnfmdebyuxbxbmgrmvpu,mbyumdrgmvb ombdbsy,mbyu
yrvrutmxskkpumxpw--Smkpgmraamlsgqr.gmkbtsydmbmlreu,mz.kgmbkmSmgrnumtr.w
Debyuxbxbmlbkmh.sgpmlpnn,mqbumbm qbexsydmpcpysydmlsgqmXewmLrruqr.kp,mb
cbkgmupbnmram qbg,mbyumvb odbxxryw--Gpbmlbkmxbupmurlykgbsek,mvsk .sgk
byumvbopumbffnpkmbyumlsypmvparepmkqpm bxpmblbt:mbxbisydmn. omsymkrxp
ramqpemgqerlk:mbyumkqpmsyh.sepumbmdepbgmupbnmbvr.gmtr.,mqrlmtr.mlpep
bx.kpu,mbyumlqrmlpepmtr.emfbegypekwm'Rq!'mkbsumS,m'Smkqbnnmyrgmarepkgbnn
Zbyp;mSmnpagmqpemuby sydmlsgqmXewmDpredpmRglbt;mkqpmlsnnmnrcpmgrmgpnn
tr.mbnnmbvr.gmsgmqpekpnamgr-xreerl:mqpemasekgmfbegypemlbkmXewmPngry,
Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqrmlsnnmbkomqpemypjg,mfpeqbfkmXewmLsnnsbxm rjw'mXtmupbe
kse,mtr.mbepmgrrmrvnsdsydw--Skmgqpepmyrvrutmtr.mlr.numyrgmebgqpe?--Smbx
yrgmqpnfnpkkwmKse,mtr.mbepmxrkgmosyuwm.frymxtmlreu,mZbypmrymrypmbex,mbyu
xpmrymgqpmrgqpe!--Kgrf,mkgrf,mnpgm.kmkgbyumbmnsggnpmvb o,mXekwmPngrymsk
drsyd;mupbemXekwmPngry,mqrlmpnpdbygmkqpmnrrok!--Vpb.gsa.nmnb p!--Yrlmlp
bnnmarnnrlmsymqpemgebsywmH.sgpmgqpmh.ppymramgqpmpcpysyd!--Lpnn,mqpepmlp
bepmbgmgqpmfbkkbdpwmGlrmkgpfk,mZbyp,mgbopm bepmramgqpmglrmkgpfkwmRq!myr,
gqpepmskmv.gmrypwmLpnn,mSmlbkmfpek.bupumgqpepmlpepmglrwmQrlmcpetmruu!
Smlbkm rycsy pumgqpepmlpepmglr,mbyumgqpepmskmv.gmrypwmSmypcpemkblmbyt
gqsydmph.bnmgrmgqpm rxaregmbyumkgtnp-- byunpkmpcpetlqpepw--Smlbkmgpnnsyd
tr.mramtr.emdebyuxbxb,mZbyp,--Gqpepmlbkmbmnsggnpmuskbffrsygxpygw--Gqp
vbopumbffnpkmbyumvsk .sgk,mpj pnnpygmsymgqpsemlbt,mtr.moyrl;mv.gmgqpep
lbkmbmupns bgpmaes bkkppmramklppgvepbumbyumkrxpmbkfbebd.kmver.dqgmsymbg
asekg,mbyumdrrumXewmLrruqr.kp,myrgmgqsyosydmgqpmbkfbebd.kmh.sgpmvrsnpu
pyr.dq,mkpygmsgmbnnmr.gmbdbsywmYrlmgqpepmskmyrgqsydmdebyuxbxbmnrcpk
vpggpemgqbymklppgvepbumbyumbkfbebd.k--krmkqpmlbkmebgqpemuskbffrsygpu,
v.gmlpmbdeppumlpmlr.numyrgmkfpbomramsgmgrmbytmvrut,maremapbemra
sgkmdpggsydmer.yumgrmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqrmlr.numvpmkrmcpetmx. q
 ry peypu!--Lpnn,mgqskmskmvesnnsbyg!mSmbxmbnnmbxbipxpyg!m r.numyrgmqbcp
k.ffrkpumbytmgqsyd!--K. qmpnpdby pmbyumfera.ksry!--Smqbcpmkppymyrgqsyd
nsopmsgmksy p--Lpnn,mlqpepmkqbnnmlpmksg?mlqpepmkqbnnmlpmksg?mBytlqpep,
krmgqbgmZbypmskmyrgmsymbmueb.dqgwmLqpepm_S_mksgmskmramyrm rykph.py pw
Rq!murmtr.mep rxxpyumgqskmksup?--Lpnn,mSmbxmk.ep,mXewm q.e qsnn--rynt
sgmkppxkmgrrmdrru--v.gmz.kgmbkmtr.mfnpbkpwmLqbgmtr.musep gmsymgqskmqr.kp
 byyrgmvpmlerydwmUpbemZbyp,mqrlmkqbnnmlpmpcpemep rnnp gmqbnamgqpmuskqpk
aremdebyuxbxb?mKr.fmgrr!mVnpkkmxp!mSmkqr.numyrgmvpmqpnfpumkrmkrry,mv.g
sgmkxpnnkmxrkgmpj pnnpyg,mbyumSm byyrgmqpnfmvpdsyysydw”

Pxxbmqbumyrmrffreg.ysgtmramkfpbosydmgrmXewmOysdqgnptmgsnnmbagpemk.ffpe;
v.g,mlqpymgqptmlpepmbnnmsymgqpmvbnnerrxmbdbsy,mqpemptpkmsycsgpu
qsxmseepkskgsvntmgrm rxpmgrmqpembyumvpmgqbyopuwmQpmlbkmlbexmsymqsk
epfervbgsrymramXewmPngry'km ryu. g;msgmqbumvppym.yfbeurybvnpme.upypkk;
byumXekwmPngry'kmnrrokmbnkrmep pscpumgqpmu.pmkqbepmram pyk.epw

“Gqptmbsxpumbgmlr.yusydmxrepmgqbymQbeespg,”mkbsumqpwm“Pxxb,mlqtmskmsg
gqbgmgqptmbepmtr.empypxspk?”

Qpmnrropumlsgqmkxsnsydmfpypgebgsry;mbyu,mrymep pscsydmyrmbyklpe,mbuupu,
“_Kqp_mr.dqgmyrgmgrmvpmbydetmlsgqmtr.,mSmk.kfp g,mlqbgpcpemqpmxbt
vpw--Grmgqbgmk.exskp,mtr.mkbtmyrgqsyd,mram r.ekp;mv.gm ryapkk,mPxxb,
gqbgmtr.musumlbygmqsxmgrmxbeetmQbeespgw”

“Smusu,”mepfnspumPxxb,m“byumgqptm byyrgmaredscpmxpw”

Qpmkqrromqskmqpbu;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbmkxsnpmramsyu.ndpy pmlsgqmsg,mbyumqp
ryntmkbsu,

“Smkqbnnmyrgmk rnumtr.wmSmnpbcpmtr.mgrmtr.emrlymepanp gsrykw”

“ bymtr.mge.kgmxpmlsgqmk. qmanbggpepek?--Urpkmxtmcbsymkfsesgmpcpemgpnn
xpmSmbxmleryd?”

“Yrgmtr.emcbsymkfsesg,mv.gmtr.emkpesr.kmkfsesgw--Samrypmnpbukmtr.mleryd,
Smbxmk.epmgqpmrgqpemgpnnkmtr.mramsgw”

“Smurmrlymxtkpnamgrmqbcpmvppym rxfnpgpntmxskgbopymsymXewmPngrywmGqpepmsk
bmnsggnpypkkmbvr.gmqsxmlqs qmtr.musk rcpepu,mbyumlqs qmSmusumyrg:mbyumS
lbkma.nntm rycsy pumramqskmvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmQbeespgwmSgmlbkmgqer.dqmb
kpespkmramkgebydpmvn.yupek!”

“Byu,msymepg.eymaremtr.emb oyrlnpudsydmkrmx. q,mSmlsnnmurmtr.mgqp
z.kgs pmgrmkbt,mgqbgmtr.mlr.numqbcpm qrkpymaremqsxmvpggpemgqbymqpmqbk
 qrkpymaremqsxkpnaw--QbeespgmKxsgqmqbkmkrxpmasekg-ebgpmh.bnsgspk,mlqs q
XekwmPngrymskmgrgbnntmlsgqr.gwmBym.yfepgpyusyd,mksydnp-xsyupu,mbegnpkk
dsen--syasysgpntmgrmvpmfepapeepumvtmbytmxbymramkpykpmbyumgbkgpmgrmk. qmb
lrxbymbkmXekwmPngrywmSmar.yumQbeespgmxrepm rycpekbvnpmgqbymSmpjfp gpuw”

Pxxbmlbkmpjgepxpntmdebgsaspuw--Gqptmlpepmsygpee.fgpumvtmgqpmv.kgnpmra
XewmLpkgrym bnnsydmrympcpetmvrutmgrmvpdsymuby sydmbdbsyw

“ rxpmXskkmLrruqr.kp,mXskkmRglbt,mXskkmAbseabj,mlqbgmbepmtr.mbnn
ursyd?-- rxpmPxxb,mkpgmtr.em rxfbysrykmgqpmpjbxfnpwmPcpetmvrutmskmnbit!
Pcpetmvrutmskmbknppf!”

“Smbxmepbut,”mkbsumPxxb,m“lqpypcpemSmbxmlbygpuw”

“Lqrxmbepmtr.mdrsydmgrmuby pmlsgq?”mbkopumXewmOysdqgnptw

Kqpmqpksgbgpumbmxrxpyg,mbyumgqpymepfnspu,m“Lsgqmtr.,msamtr.mlsnnmbko
xpw”

“Lsnnmtr.?”mkbsumqp,mraapesydmqskmqbyuw

“SyuppumSmlsnnwmTr.mqbcpmkqplymgqbgmtr.m bymuby p,mbyumtr.moyrlmlpmbep
yrgmepbnntmkrmx. qmvergqpembyumkskgpembkmgrmxbopmsgmbgmbnnmsxferfpew”

“Vergqpembyumkskgpe!myr,msyuppuw”



 QBFGPEmSSS


GqskmnsggnpmpjfnbybgsrymlsgqmXewmOysdqgnptmdbcpmPxxbm ryksupebvnp
fnpbk.epwmSgmlbkmrypmramgqpmbdeppbvnpmep rnnp gsrykmramgqpmvbnn,mlqs q
kqpmlbnopumbvr.gmgqpmnblymgqpmypjgmxreysydmgrmpyzrtw--Kqpmlbkmpjgepxpnt
dnbumgqbgmgqptmqbum rxpmgrmkrmdrrumbym.yupekgbyusydmepkfp gsydmgqp
Pngryk,mbyumgqbgmgqpsemrfsysrykmramvrgqmq.kvbyumbyumlsapmlpepmkrmx. q
bnsop;mbyumqskmfebskpmramQbeespg,mqskm ry pkksrymsymqpemabcr.e,mlbk
fp .nsbentmdebgsatsydwmGqpmsxfpegsypy pmramgqpmPngryk,mlqs qmarembmapl
xsy.gpkmqbumgqepbgpypumgrme.symgqpmepkgmramqpempcpysyd,mqbumvppymgqp
r  bksrymramkrxpmramsgkmqsdqpkgmkbgskab gsryk;mbyumkqpmnrropumarelbeu
grmbyrgqpemqbfftmepk.ng--gqpm .epmramQbeespg'kmsyabg.bgsryw--Aerx
Qbeespg'kmxbyypemramkfpbosydmramgqpm se .xkgby pmvparepmgqptmh.sggpumgqp
vbnnerrx,mkqpmqbumkgerydmqrfpkwmSgmkppxpumbkmsamqpemptpkmlpepmk.uupynt
rfpypu,mbyumkqpmlpepmpybvnpumgrmkppmgqbgmXewmPngrymlbkmyrgmgqpmk.fpesre
 epbg.epmkqpmqbumvpnspcpumqsxwmGqpmapcpemlbkmrcpe,mbyumPxxbm r.nu
qbevr.emnsggnpmapbemramgqpmf.nkpmvpsydmh.s opypumbdbsymvtmsyz.esr.k
 r.egpktwmKqpmupfpyupumrymgqpmpcsnmappnsydkmramgqpmPngrykmare
k.ffntsydmbnnmgqpmusk sfnsypmramfrsygpumypdnp gmgqbgm r.numvpmabegqpe
eph.sksgpw--Qbeespgmebgsrybn,mAebyom q.e qsnnmyrgmgrrmx. qmsymnrcp,mbyu
XewmOysdqgnptmyrgmlbygsydmgrmh.beepnmlsgqmqpe,mqrlmcpetmqbfftmbmk.xxpe
x.kgmvpmvparepmqpe!

KqpmlbkmyrgmgrmkppmAebyom q.e qsnnmgqskmxreysydwmQpmqbumgrnumqpemgqbgmqp
 r.numyrgmbnnrlmqsxkpnamgqpmfnpbk.epmramkgrffsydmbgmQbegaspnu,mbkmqpmlbk
grmvpmbgmqrxpmvtmgqpmxsuunpmramgqpmubtwmKqpmusumyrgmepdepgmsgw

Qbcsydmbeebydpumbnnmgqpkpmxbggpek,mnrropumgqpxmgqer.dq,mbyumf.gmgqpxmbnn
grmesdqgk,mkqpmlbkmz.kgmg.eysydmgrmgqpmqr.kpmlsgqmkfsesgkmaepkqpypum.f
aremgqpmupxbyukmramgqpmglrmnsggnpmvrtk,mbkmlpnnmbkmramgqpsemdebyufbfb,
lqpymgqpmdepbgmserymklppf-dbgpmrfpypu,mbyumglrmfpekrykmpygpepumlqrxmkqp
qbumypcpemnpkkmpjfp gpumgrmkppmgrdpgqpe--Aebyom q.e qsnn,mlsgqmQbeespg
npbysydmrymqskmbex--b g.bnntmQbeespg!--Bmxrxpygmk.aas pumgrm rycsy p
qpemgqbgmkrxpgqsydmpjgebreusybetmqbumqbffpypuwmQbeespgmnrropumlqsgp
byumaesdqgpypu,mbyumqpmlbkmgetsydmgrm qppemqpew--Gqpmserymdbgpkmbyumgqp
aeryg-urremlpepmyrgmglpygtmtbeukmbk.yupe;--gqptmlpepmbnnmgqeppmkrrymsy
gqpmqbnn,mbyumQbeespgmsxxpusbgpntmksyosydmsygrmbm qbsemabsygpumblbtw

Bmtr.ydmnbutmlqrmabsygk,mx.kgmvpmep rcpepu;mh.pkgsrykmx.kgmvpmbyklpepu,
byumk.efesipkmvpmpjfnbsypuwmK. qmpcpygkmbepmcpetmsygpepkgsyd,mv.gmgqp
k.kfpykpmramgqpxm byyrgmnbkgmnrydwmBmaplmxsy.gpkmxbupmPxxbmb h.bsygpu
lsgqmgqpmlqrnpw

XskkmKxsgq,mbyumXskkmVs opegry,mbyrgqpemfbenr.emvrbeupembgmXekw
Druubeu'k,mlqrmqbumvppymbnkrmbgmgqpmvbnn,mqbumlbnopumr.gmgrdpgqpe,mbyu
gbopymbmerbu,mgqpmEs qxryumerbu,mlqs q,mgqr.dqmbffbepygntmf.vns mpyr.dq
aremkbapgt,mqbumnpumgqpxmsygrmbnbexw--Bvr.gmqbnambmxsnpmvptryumQsdqv.et,
xbosydmbmk.uupymg.ey,mbyumuppfntmkqbupumvtmpnxkmrympb qmksup,msgmvp bxp
arembm ryksupebvnpmkgepg qmcpetmepgsepu;mbyumlqpymgqpmtr.ydmnbuspk
qbumbucby pumkrxpmlbtmsygrmsg,mgqptmqbumk.uupyntmfpe pscpumbgmbmkxbnn
uskgby pmvparepmgqpx,mrymbmverbupemfbg qmramdeppyklbeumvtmgqpmksup,mb
fbegtmramdsfkspkwmBm qsnumrymgqpmlbg q,m bxpmgrlbeukmgqpxmgrmvpd;mbyu
XskkmVs opegry,mpj pkkscpntmaesdqgpypu,mdbcpmbmdepbgmk epbx,mbyum bnnsyd
rymQbeespgmgrmarnnrlmqpe,mebym.fmbmkgppfmvbyo,m npbepumbmknsdqgmqpudpmbg
gqpmgrf,mbyumxbupmgqpmvpkgmramqpemlbtmvtmbmkqregm .gmvb omgrmQsdqv.etw
V.gmfrremQbeespgm r.numyrgmarnnrlwmKqpmqbumk.aapepumcpetmx. qmaerxm ebxf
bagpemuby syd,mbyumqpemasekgmbggpxfgmgrmxr.ygmgqpmvbyomver.dqgmrymk. q
bmepg.eymramsgmbkmxbupmqpembvkrn.gpntmfrlpenpkk--byumsymgqskmkgbgp,mbyu
pj ppusydntmgpeesaspu,mkqpmqbumvppymrvnsdpumgrmepxbsyw

Qrlmgqpmgebxfpekmxsdqgmqbcpmvpqbcpu,mqbumgqpmtr.ydmnbuspkmvppymxrep
 r.ebdpr.k,mx.kgmvpmur.vga.n;mv.gmk. qmbymsycsgbgsrymarembggb om r.nu
yrgmvpmepkskgpu;mbyumQbeespgmlbkmkrrymbkkbsnpumvtmqbnambmuripym qsnuepy,
qpbupumvtmbmkgr.gmlrxbymbyumbmdepbgmvrt,mbnnm nbxrer.k,mbyumsxfpegsypyg
symnrro,mgqr.dqmyrgmbvkrn.gpntmsymlreuw--Xrepmbyumxrepmaesdqgpypu,mkqp
sxxpusbgpntmferxskpumgqpxmxrypt,mbyumgbosydmr.gmqpemf.ekp,mdbcpmgqpxmb
kqsnnsyd,mbyumvpddpumgqpxmyrgmgrmlbygmxrep,mremgrm.kpmqpemsnnw--Kqp
lbkmgqpymbvnpmgrmlbno,mgqr.dqmv.gmknrlnt,mbyumlbkmxrcsydmblbt--v.gmqpe
gpeerembyumqpemf.ekpmlpepmgrrmgpxfgsyd,mbyumkqpmlbkmarnnrlpu,mremebgqpe
k.eer.yupu,mvtmgqpmlqrnpmdbyd,mupxbyusydmxrepw

SymgqskmkgbgpmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbumar.yumqpe,mkqpmgepxvnsydmbyu
 ryusgsrysyd,mgqptmnr.umbyumsykrnpygwmVtmbmxrkgmareg.ybgpm qby pmqsk
npbcsydmQsdqv.etmqbumvppymupnbtpumkrmbkmgrmvesydmqsxmgrmqpembkkskgby p
bgmgqskm esgs bnmxrxpygwmGqpmfnpbkbygypkkmramgqpmxreysydmqbumsyu. pu
qsxmgrmlbnomarelbeu,mbyumnpbcpmqskmqrekpkmgrmxppgmqsxmvtmbyrgqpemerbu,
bmxsnpmremglrmvptryumQsdqv.et--byumqbffpysydmgrmqbcpmvreerlpumbmfbse
ramk skkrekmgqpmysdqgmvparepmramXskkmVbgpk,mbyumgrmqbcpmaredrggpymgr
epkgrepmgqpx,mqpmqbumvppymrvnsdpumgrmkgrfmbgmqpemurre,mbyumdrmsymaremb
aplmxsy.gpk:mqpmlbkmgqpeparepmnbgpemgqbymqpmqbumsygpyupu;mbyumvpsyd
rymarrg,mlbkm.ykppymvtmgqpmlqrnpmfbegtmgsnnmbnxrkgm nrkpmgrmgqpxwmGqp
gpeeremlqs qmgqpmlrxbymbyumvrtmqbumvppym epbgsydmsymQbeespgmlbkmgqpy
gqpsemrlymfregsrywmQpmqbumnpagmgqpxm rxfnpgpntmaesdqgpypu;mbyumQbeespg
pbdpentm nsydsydmgrmqsx,mbyumqbeuntmbvnpmgrmkfpbo,mqbumz.kgmkgepydgq
pyr.dqmgrmepb qmQbegaspnu,mvparepmqpemkfsesgkmlpepmh.sgpmrcpe rxpw
SgmlbkmqskmsupbmgrmvesydmqpemgrmQbegaspnu:mqpmqbumgqr.dqgmramyrmrgqpe
fnb pw

Gqskmlbkmgqpmbxr.ygmramgqpmlqrnpmkgret,--ramqskm rxx.ys bgsrymbyumra
Qbeespg'kmbkmkrrymbkmkqpmqbumep rcpepumqpemkpykpkmbyumkfpp qw--Qpmubepu
yrgmkgbtmnrydpemgqbymgrmkppmqpemlpnn;mgqpkpmkpcpebnmupnbtkmnpagmqsx
yrgmbyrgqpemxsy.gpmgrmnrkp;mbyumPxxbmpydbdsydmgrmdscpmbkk.eby pmramqpe
kbapgtmgrmXekwmDruubeu,mbyumyrgs pmramgqpepmvpsydmk. qmbmkpgmramfprfnp
symgqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumgrmXewmOysdqgnpt,mqpmkpgmraa,mlsgqmbnnmgqpmdebgpa.n
vnpkksydkmgqbgmkqpm r.num.ggpemaremqpemaespyumbyumqpekpnaw

K. qmbymbucpyg.epmbkmgqsk,--bmasypmtr.ydmxbymbyumbmnrcpntmtr.ydmlrxby
gqerlymgrdpgqpemsymk. qmbmlbt,m r.numqbeuntmabsnmramk.ddpkgsydm pegbsy
supbkmgrmgqpm rnupkgmqpbegmbyumgqpmkgpbuspkgmvebsywmKrmPxxbmgqr.dqg,mbg
npbkgwm r.numbmnsyd.skg,m r.numbmdebxxbesby,m r.numpcpymbmxbgqpxbgs sby
qbcpmkppymlqbgmkqpmusu,mqbcpmlsgypkkpumgqpsembffpbeby pmgrdpgqpe,mbyu
qpbeumgqpsemqskgretmramsg,mlsgqr.gmappnsydmgqbgm se .xkgby pkmqbumvppy
bgmlreomgrmxbopmgqpxmfp .nsbentmsygpepkgsydmgrmpb qmrgqpe?--Qrlmx. q
xrepmx.kgmbymsxbdsyskg,mnsopmqpekpna,mvpmrymasepmlsgqmkfp .nbgsrymbyu
arepksdqg!--pkfp sbnntmlsgqmk. qmbmder.yulreomrambygs sfbgsrymbkmqpe
xsyumqbumbnepbutmxbupw

Sgmlbkmbmcpetmpjgebreusybetmgqsyd!mYrgqsydmramgqpmkregmqbumpcpe
r  .eepumvparepmgrmbytmtr.ydmnbuspkmsymgqpmfnb p,mlsgqsymqpemxpxret;myr
epy rygep,myrmbnbexmramgqpmosyu;--byumyrlmsgmqbumqbffpypumgrmgqpmcpet
fpekry,mbyumbgmgqpmcpetmqr.e,mlqpymgqpmrgqpemcpetmfpekrymlbkm qby syd
grmfbkkmvtmgrmepk .pmqpe!--Sgm pegbsyntmlbkmcpetmpjgebreusybet!--Byu
oyrlsyd,mbkmkqpmusu,mgqpmabcr.ebvnpmkgbgpmramxsyumrampb qmbgmgqsk
fpesru,msgmkge. omqpemgqpmxrepwmQpmlbkmlskqsydmgrmdpgmgqpmvpggpemramqsk
bggb qxpygmgrmqpekpna,mkqpmz.kgmep rcpesydmaerxmqpemxbysbmaremXewmPngryw
Sgmkppxpumbkmsampcpetmgqsydm.ysgpumgrmferxskpmgqpmxrkgmsygpepkgsyd
 rykph.py pkwmSgmlbkmyrgmfrkksvnpmgqbgmgqpmr  .eepy pmkqr.numyrgmvp
kgerydntmep rxxpyusydmpb qmgrmgqpmrgqpew

Symgqpmaplmxsy.gpk'm rycpekbgsrymlqs qmkqpmqbumtpgmqbumlsgqmqsx,mlqsnp
Qbeespgmqbumvppymfbegsbnntmsykpyksvnp,mqpmqbumkfropymramqpemgpeere,
qpemybscpgp,mqpemapecr.embkmkqpmkpsipumbyum n.ydmgrmqskmbex,mlsgqmb
kpyksvsnsgtmbx.kpumbyumupnsdqgpu;mbyumz.kgmbgmnbkg,mbagpemQbeespg'k
rlymb  r.ygmqbumvppymdscpy,mqpmqbumpjfepkkpumqskmsyusdybgsrymbgmgqp
bvrxsybvnpmarnntmramXskkmVs opegrymsymgqpmlbexpkgmgpexkwmPcpetmgqsydmlbk
grmgbopmsgkmybg.ebnm r.ekp,mqrlpcpe,mypsgqpemsxfpnnpumyrembkkskgpuw
Kqpmlr.numyrgmkgsembmkgpf,myremuerfmbmqsygwmYr,mkqpmqbumqbumpyr.dqmra
sygpeapepy pwmGqpepm r.numvpmyrmqbexmsymbmk qpxp,mbmxpepmfbkkscpmk qpxpw
SgmlbkmyrmxrepmgqbymbmlskqwmVptryumsgmkqpmlr.numrymyrmb  r.ygmfer ppuw

Pxxb'kmasekgmepkrn.gsrymlbkmgrmoppfmqpemabgqpemaerxmgqpmoyrlnpudpmra
lqbgmqbumfbkkpu,--blbepmramgqpmbyjspgtmbyumbnbexmsgmlr.numr  bksry:mv.g
kqpmkrrymapngmgqbgm ry pbnxpygmx.kgmvpmsxfrkksvnpwmLsgqsymqbnambymqr.e
sgmlbkmoyrlymbnnmrcpemQsdqv.etwmSgmlbkmgqpmcpetmpcpygmgrmpydbdpmgqrkp
lqrmgbnomxrkg,mgqpmtr.ydmbyumgqpmnrl;mbyumbnnmgqpmtr.gqmbyumkpecbygkmsy
gqpmfnb pmlpepmkrrymsymgqpmqbffsypkkmramaesdqga.nmyplkwmGqpmnbkgmysdqg'k
vbnnmkppxpumnrkgmsymgqpmdsfkspkwmFrremXewmLrruqr.kpmgepxvnpumbkmqpmkbg,
byu,mbkmPxxbmqbumarepkppy,mlr.numk be pntmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqr.gmgqpse
ferxsksydmypcpemgrmdrmvptryumgqpmkqe.vvpetmbdbsywmSgmlbkmkrxpm rxareg
grmqsxmgqbgmxbytmsyh.sespkmbagpemqsxkpnambyumXskkmLrruqr.kpm(aremqsk
ypsdqvr.ekmoyplmgqbgmqpmnrcpumgrmvpmsyh.sepumbagpe),mbkmlpnnmbkmXskk
Kxsgq,mlpepm rxsydmsymu.esydmgqpmepkgmramgqpmubt;mbyumqpmqbu
gqpmfnpbk.epmramepg.eysydmarembyklpe,mgqbgmgqptmlpepmbnnmcpet
syusaapepyg--lqs q,mgqr.dqmyrgmpjb gntmge.p,maremkqpmlbkmfpeap gntmlpnn,
byumQbeespgmyrgmx. qmrgqpelskp,mPxxbmlr.numyrgmsygpeapepmlsgqwmKqpmqbu
bym.yqbfftmkgbgpmramqpbngqmsymdpypebnmaremgqpm qsnumramk. qmbmxby,
aremkqpmqbeuntmoyplmlqbgmsyuskfrksgsrymlbk;mbyumsamqpmusumyrgmsycpyg
snnypkkpkmaremqpe,mkqpm r.numxbopmyrmasd.epmsymbmxpkkbdpw

Gqpmdsfkspkmusumyrgmlbsgmaremgqpmrfpebgsrykmramz.kgs p;mgqptmgrro
gqpxkpncpkmraamsymbmq.eetwmGqpmtr.ydmnbuspkmramQsdqv.etmxsdqgmqbcp
lbnopumbdbsymsymkbapgtmvparepmgqpsemfbys mvpdby,mbyumgqpmlqrnpmqskgret
ulsyunpumkrrymsygrmbmxbggpemramnsggnpmsxfregby pmv.gmgrmPxxbmbyumqpe
ypfqplk:--symqpemsxbdsybgsrymsgmxbsygbsypumsgkmder.yu,mbyumQpyetmbyu
ZrqymlpepmkgsnnmbkosydmpcpetmubtmaremgqpmkgretmramQbeespgmbyumgqp
dsfkspk,mbyumkgsnnmgpyb sr.kntmkpggsydmqpemesdqgmsamkqpmcbespumsymgqp
knsdqgpkgmfbegs .nbemaerxmgqpmresdsybnmep sgbnw



 QBFGPEmSC


Bmcpetmaplmubtkmqbumfbkkpumbagpemgqskmbucpyg.ep,mlqpymQbeespgm bxpmryp
xreysydmgrmPxxbmlsgqmbmkxbnnmfbe pnmsymqpemqbyu,mbyumbagpemksggsydmurly
byumqpksgbgsyd,mgq.kmvpdby:

“XskkmLrruqr.kp--samtr.mbepmbgmnpsk.ep--SmqbcpmkrxpgqsydmgqbgmSmkqr.nu
nsopmgrmgpnnmtr.--bmkregmram ryapkksrymgrmxbop--byumgqpy,mtr.moyrl,msg
lsnnmvpmrcpew”

Pxxbmlbkmbmdrrumupbnmk.efesipu;mv.gmvpddpumqpemgrmkfpbowmGqpepmlbkmb
kpesr.kypkkmsymQbeespg'kmxbyypemlqs qmfepfbepumqpe,mh.sgpmbkmx. qmbkmqpe
lreuk,maremkrxpgqsydmxrepmgqbymreusybetw

“Sgmskmxtmu.gt,mbyumSmbxmk.epmsgmskmxtmlskq,”mkqpm rygsy.pu,m“grmqbcp
yrmepkpecpkmlsgqmtr.mrymgqskmk.vzp gwmBkmSmbxmqbffsntmh.sgpmbymbngpepu
 epbg.epmsym_ryp_m_epkfp g_,msgmskmcpetmasgmgqbgmtr.mkqr.numqbcp
gqpmkbgskab gsrymramoyrlsydmsgwmSmurmyrgmlbygmgrmkbtmxrepmgqbymsk
yp pkkbet--Smbxmgrrmx. qmbkqbxpumramqbcsydmdscpymlbtmbkmSmqbcpmuryp,mbyu
Smubepmkbtmtr.m.yupekgbyumxpw”

“Tpk,”mkbsumPxxb,m“SmqrfpmSmurw”

“QrlmSm r.numkrmnrydmbmgsxpmvpmaby tsydmxtkpna!www”m espumQbeespg,
lbexntwm“Sgmkppxkmnsopmxbuypkk!mSm bymkppmyrgqsydmbgmbnnmpjgebreusybet
symqsxmyrlw--Smurmyrgm bepmlqpgqpemSmxppgmqsxmremyrg--pj pfgmgqbgmramgqp
glrmSmqbumebgqpemyrgmkppmqsx--byumsyuppumSmlr.numdrmbytmuskgby pmer.yu
grmbcrsumqsx--v.gmSmurmyrgmpyctmqskmlsapmsymgqpmnpbkg;mSmypsgqpembuxsep
qpemyrempyctmqpe,mbkmSmqbcpmuryp:mkqpmskmcpetm qbexsyd,mSmubepmkbt,mbyu
bnnmgqbg,mv.gmSmgqsyomqpemcpetmsnn-gpxfpepumbyumuskbdeppbvnp--Smkqbnn
ypcpemaredpgmqpemnrromgqpmrgqpemysdqg!--Qrlpcpe,mSmbkk.epmtr.,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mSmlskqmqpemyrmpcsnw--Yr,mnpgmgqpxmvpmpcpemkrmqbfftmgrdpgqpe,
sgmlsnnmyrgmdscpmxpmbyrgqpemxrxpyg'kmfbyd:mbyumgrm rycsy pmtr.mgqbgmS
qbcpmvppymkfpbosydmge.gq,mSmbxmyrlmdrsydmgrmupkgert--lqbgmSmr.dqgmgr
qbcpmupkgertpumnrydmbdr--lqbgmSmr.dqgmypcpemgrmqbcpmopfg--Smoyrlmgqbg
cpetmlpnnm(vn.kqsydmbkmkqpmkfrop)w--Qrlpcpe,myrlmSmlsnnmupkgertmsg
bnn--byumsgmskmxtmfbegs .nbemlskqmgrmurmsgmsymtr.emfepkpy p,mgqbgmtr.
xbtmkppmqrlmebgsrybnmSmbxmderlywm byyrgmtr.md.pkkmlqbgmgqskmfbe pn
qrnuk?”mkbsumkqp,mlsgqmbm ryk sr.kmnrrow

“Yrgmgqpmnpbkgmsymgqpmlrenuw--Usumqpmpcpemdscpmtr.mbytmgqsyd?”

“Yr--Sm byyrgm bnnmgqpxmdsagk;mv.gmgqptmbepmgqsydkmgqbgmSmqbcpmcbn.pu
cpetmx. qw”

Kqpmqpnumgqpmfbe pnmgrlbeukmqpe,mbyumPxxbmepbumgqpmlreukm_Xrkg_
_fep sr.k_m_gepbk.epk_mrymgqpmgrfwmQpem .esrksgtmlbkmdepbgntmpj sgpuw
Qbeespgm.yarnupumgqpmfbe pn,mbyumkqpmnrropumrymlsgqmsxfbgspy pwmLsgqsy
bv.yuby pmramksncpemfbfpemlbkmbmfepggtmnsggnpmG.yvesudp-lbepmvrj,
lqs qmQbeespgmrfpypu:msgmlbkmlpnnmnsypumlsgqmgqpmkragpkgm rggry;mv.g,
pj pfgsydmgqpm rggry,mPxxbmkblmryntmbmkxbnnmfsp pmram r.eg-fnbskgpew

“Yrl,”mkbsumQbeespg,m“tr.m_x.kg_mep rnnp gw”

“Yr,msyuppumSmurmyrgw”

“Upbemxp!mSmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmgqr.dqgmsgmfrkksvnpmtr.m r.numaredpgmlqbg
fbkkpumsymgqskmcpetmerrxmbvr.gm r.eg-fnbskgpe,mrypmramgqpmcpetmnbkg
gsxpkmlpmpcpemxpgmsymsg!--Sgmlbkmv.gmbmcpetmaplmubtkmvparepmSmqbumxt
krepmgqerbg--z.kgmvparepmXewmbyumXekwmZrqymOysdqgnptm bxp--Smgqsyomgqp
cpetmpcpysydw--Urmyrgmtr.mepxpxvpemqskm .ggsydmqskmasydpemlsgqmtr.emypl
fpyoysap,mbyumtr.emep rxxpyusydm r.eg-fnbskgpe?--V.g,mbkmtr.mqbumyryp
bvr.gmtr.,mbyumoyplmSmqbu,mtr.mupksepumxpmgrmk.ffntmqsx;mbyumkrmSmgrro
xsypmr.gmbyum .gmqsxmbmfsp p;mv.gmsgmlbkmbmdepbgmupbnmgrrmnbedp,mbyumqp
 .gmsgmkxbnnpe,mbyumopfgmfnbtsydmkrxpmgsxpmlsgqmlqbgmlbkmnpag,mvparepmqp
dbcpmsgmvb omgrmxpwmByumkrmgqpy,msymxtmyrykpykp,mSm r.numyrgmqpnfmxbosyd
bmgepbk.epmramsg--krmSmf.gmsgmvtmypcpemgrmvpm.kpu,mbyumnrropumbgmsgmyrl
byumgqpymbkmbmdepbgmgepbgw”

“XtmupbepkgmQbeespg!”m espumPxxb,mf.ggsydmqpemqbyumvparepmqpemab p,
byumz.xfsydm.f,m“tr.mxbopmxpmxrepmbkqbxpumramxtkpnamgqbymSm bymvpbew
Epxpxvpemsg?mBtp,mSmepxpxvpemsgmbnnmyrl;mbnn,mpj pfgmtr.emkbcsydmgqsk
epns --Smoyplmyrgqsydmramgqbgmgsnnmgqskmxrxpyg--v.gmgqpm .ggsydmgqp
asydpe,mbyumxtmep rxxpyusydm r.eg-fnbskgpe,mbyumkbtsydmSmqbumyryp
bvr.gmxp!--Rq!mxtmksyk,mxtmksyk!--ByumSmqbumfnpygtmbnnmgqpmlqsnpmsymxt
fr opg!--Rypmramxtmkpykpnpkkmges ok!--Smupkpecpmgrmvpm.yupembm rygsy.bn
vn.kqmbnnmgqpmepkgmramxtmnsapw--Lpnn--(ksggsydmurlymbdbsy)--drmry--lqbg
pnkp?”

“Byumqbumtr.mepbnntmkrxpmbgmqbyumtr.ekpna?mSmbxmk.epmSmypcpemk.kfp gpu
sg,mtr.musumsgmkrmybg.ebnntw”

“Byumkrmtr.mb g.bnntmf.gmgqskmfsp pmram r.eg-fnbskgpemvtmaremqskmkbop!”
mkbsumPxxb,mep rcpesydmaerxmqpemkgbgpmramkqbxpmbyumappnsydmuscsupu
vpglppymlryupembyumbx.kpxpygwmByumkp epgntmkqpmbuupumgrmqpekpna,m“Nreu
vnpkkmxp!mlqpymkqr.numSmpcpemqbcpmgqr.dqgmramf.ggsydmvtmsym rggrymb
fsp pmram r.eg-fnbskgpemgqbgmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbumvppymf.nnsydmbvr.g!mS
ypcpemlbkmph.bnmgrmgqskw”

“Qpep,”mepk.xpumQbeespg,mg.eysydmgrmqpemvrjmbdbsy,m“qpepmskmkrxpgqsyd
kgsnnmxrepmcbn.bvnp,mSmxpbymgqbgm_qbk_m_vppy_mxrepmcbn.bvnp,mvp b.kp
gqskmskmlqbgmusumepbnntmry pmvpnrydmgrmqsx,mlqs qmgqpm r.eg-fnbskgpe
ypcpemusuw”

Pxxbmlbkmh.sgpmpbdpemgrmkppmgqskmk.fpesremgepbk.epwmSgmlbkmgqpmpyumramby
rnumfpy sn,--gqpmfbegmlsgqr.gmbytmnpbuw

“Gqskmlbkmepbnntmqsk,”mkbsumQbeespgw--“Urmyrgmtr.mepxpxvpemryp
xreysyd?--yr,mSmubepmkbtmtr.murmyrgwmV.gmrypmxreysyd--Smaredpgmpjb gnt
gqpmubt--v.gmfpeqbfkmsgmlbkmgqpmG.pkubtmremLpuypkubtmvparepm_gqbg_
_pcpysyd_,mqpmlbygpumgrmxbopmbmxpxrebyu.xmsymqskmfr opg-vrro;msgmlbk
bvr.gmkfe. p-vppewmXewmOysdqgnptmqbumvppymgpnnsydmqsxmkrxpgqsydmbvr.g
veplsydmkfe. p-vppe,mbyumqpmlbygpumgrmf.gmsgmurly;mv.gmlqpymqpmgrromr.g
qskmfpy sn,mgqpepmlbkmkrmnsggnpmnpbumgqbgmqpmkrrym .gmsgmbnnmblbt,mbyu
sgmlr.numyrgmur,mkrmtr.mnpygmqsxmbyrgqpe,mbyumgqskmlbkmnpagm.frymgqp
gbvnpmbkmdrrumaremyrgqsydwmV.gmSmopfgmxtmptpmrymsg;mbyu,mbkmkrrymbkmS
ubepu,m b.dqgmsgm.f,mbyumypcpemfbegpumlsgqmsgmbdbsymaerxmgqbgmxrxpygw”

“Smurmepxpxvpemsg,”m espumPxxb;m“Smfpeap gntmepxpxvpemsgw--Gbnosyd
bvr.gmkfe. p-vppew--Rq!mtpk--XewmOysdqgnptmbyumSmvrgqmkbtsydmlp
nsopumsg,mbyumXewmPngry'kmkppxsydmepkrncpumgrmnpbeymgrmnsopmsgmgrrwmS
fpeap gntmepxpxvpemsgw--Kgrf;mXewmOysdqgnptmlbkmkgbyusydmz.kgmqpep,mlbk
yrgmqp?mSmqbcpmbymsupbmqpmlbkmkgbyusydmz.kgmqpepw”

“Bq!mSmurmyrgmoyrlwmSm byyrgmep rnnp gw--Sgmskmcpetmruu,mv.gmSm byyrg
ep rnnp gw--XewmPngrymlbkmksggsydmqpep,mSmepxpxvpe,mx. qmbvr.gmlqpepmS
bxmyrlw”--

“Lpnn,mdrmryw”

“Rq!mgqbg'kmbnnwmSmqbcpmyrgqsydmxrepmgrmkqplmtr.,mremgrmkbt--pj pfgmgqbg
Smbxmyrlmdrsydmgrmgqerlmgqpxmvrgqmvpqsyumgqpmasep,mbyumSmlskqmtr.mgrmkpp
xpmurmsgw”

“XtmfrremupbemQbeespg!mbyumqbcpmtr.mb g.bnntmar.yumqbffsypkkmsy
gepbk.esydm.fmgqpkpmgqsydk?”

“Tpk,mksxfnpgrymbkmSmlbk!--v.gmSmbxmh.sgpmbkqbxpumramsgmyrl,mbyumlskqmS
 r.numaredpgmbkmpbksntmbkmSm bymv.eymgqpxwmSgmlbkmcpetmlerydmramxp,mtr.
oyrl,mgrmoppfmbytmepxpxveby pk,mbagpemqpmlbkmxbeespuwmSmoyplmsgmlbk--v.g
qbumyrgmepkrn.gsrympyr.dqmgrmfbegmlsgqmgqpxw”

“V.g,mQbeespg,mskmsgmyp pkkbetmgrmv.eymgqpm r.eg-fnbskgpe?--Smqbcpmyrg
bmlreumgrmkbtmaremgqpmvsgmramrnumfpy sn,mv.gmgqpm r.eg-fnbskgpemxsdqgmvp
.kpa.nw”

“Smkqbnnmvpmqbffspemgrmv.eymsg,”mepfnspumQbeespgwm“Sgmqbkmbmuskbdeppbvnp
nrromgrmxpwmSmx.kgmdpgmesumrampcpetmgqsydw--Gqpepmsgmdrpk,mbyumgqpepmsk
bympyu,mgqbyomQpbcpy!mramXewmPngryw”

“Byumlqpy,”mgqr.dqgmPxxb,m“lsnnmgqpepmvpmbmvpdsyysydmramXewm q.e qsnn?”

Kqpmqbumkrrymbagpelbeukmepbkrymgrmvpnspcpmgqbgmgqpmvpdsyysydmlbkmbnepbut
xbup,mbyum r.numyrgmv.gmqrfpmgqbgmgqpmdsfkt,mgqr.dqmkqpmqbum_grnu_myr
areg.yp,mxsdqgmvpmfercpumgrmqbcpmxbupmQbeespg'kw--Bvr.gmbmaregysdqg
bagpemgqpmbnbex,mgqptm bxpmgrmbmk.aas spygmpjfnbybgsry,mbyumh.sgp
.yupksdypuntwmPxxbmlbkmyrgmgqsyosydmramsgmbgmgqpmxrxpyg,mlqs qmxbupmgqp
syarexbgsrymkqpmep pscpumxrepmcbn.bvnpwmKqpmxpepntmkbsu,msymgqpm r.ekp
ramkrxpmgescsbnm qbg,m“Lpnn,mQbeespg,mlqpypcpemtr.mxbeetmSmlr.numbucskp
tr.mgrmurmkrmbyumkr”--byumgqr.dqgmyrmxrepmramsg,mgsnnmbagpembmxsy.gp'k
ksnpy pmkqpmqpbeumQbeespgmkbtmsymbmcpetmkpesr.kmgryp,m“Smkqbnnmypcpe
xbeetw”

Pxxbmgqpymnrropum.f,mbyumsxxpusbgpntmkblmqrlmsgmlbk;mbyumbagpemb
xrxpyg'kmupvbgp,mbkmgrmlqpgqpemsgmkqr.numfbkkm.yyrgs pumremyrg,mepfnspu,

“Ypcpemxbeet!--Gqskmskmbmyplmepkrn.gsryw”

“SgmskmrypmgqbgmSmkqbnnmypcpem qbydp,mqrlpcpew”

Bagpembyrgqpemkqregmqpksgbgsry,m“Smqrfpmsgmurpkmyrgmfer ppumaerx--Smqrfp
sgmskmyrgmsym rxfnsxpygmgrmXewmPngry?”

“XewmPngrymsyuppu!”m espumQbeespgmsyusdybygntw--“Rq!myr”--byumPxxbm r.nu
z.kgm bg qmgqpmlreuk,m“krmk.fpesremgrmXewmPngry!”

Kqpmgqpymgrrombmnrydpemgsxpmarem ryksupebgsrywmKqr.numkqpmfer ppumyr
abegqpe?--kqr.numkqpmnpgmsgmfbkk,mbyumkppxmgrmk.kfp gmyrgqsyd?--Fpeqbfk
Qbeespgmxsdqgmgqsyomqpem rnumrembydetmsamkqpmusu;mremfpeqbfkmsamkqpmlpep
grgbnntmksnpyg,msgmxsdqgmryntmuescpmQbeespgmsygrmbkosydmqpemgrmqpbemgrr
x. q;mbyumbdbsykgmbytmgqsydmnsopmk. qmbym.yepkpecpmbkmqbumvppy,mk. q
bymrfpymbyumaeph.pygmusk .kksrymramqrfpkmbyum qby pk,mkqpmlbkmfpeap gnt
epkrncpuw--Kqpmvpnspcpumsgmlr.numvpmlskpemaremqpemgrmkbtmbyumoyrlmbg
ry p,mbnnmgqbgmkqpmxpbygmgrmkbtmbyumoyrlwmFnbsymupbnsydmlbkmbnlbtk
vpkgwmKqpmqbumfepcsr.kntmupgpexsypumqrlmabemkqpmlr.numfer ppu,mrymbyt
bffns bgsrymramgqpmkreg;mbyumsgmlr.numvpmkbapemaremvrgq,mgrmqbcpmgqp
z.us sr.kmnblmramqpemrlymvebsymnbsumurlymlsgqmkfppuw--Kqpmlbkmup supu,
byumgq.kmkfrop--

“Qbeespg,mSmlsnnmyrgmbaap gmgrmvpmsymur.vgmramtr.emxpbysydwmTr.e
epkrn.gsry,mremebgqpemtr.empjfp gbgsrymramypcpemxbeetsyd,mepk.ngkmaerx
bymsupbmgqbgmgqpmfpekrymlqrxmtr.mxsdqgmfepape,mlr.numvpmgrrmdepbgntmtr.e
k.fpesremsymksg.bgsrymgrmgqsyomramtr.wmSkmyrgmsgmkr?”

“Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mvpnspcpmxpmSmqbcpmyrgmgqpmfepk.xfgsrymgrmk.ffrkp--
SyuppumSmbxmyrgmkrmxbuw--V.gmsgmskmbmfnpbk.epmgrmxpmgrmbuxsepmqsxmbgmb
uskgby p--byumgrmgqsyomramqskmsyasysgpmk.fpesresgtmgrmbnnmgqpmepkgmra
gqpmlrenu,mlsgqmgqpmdebgsg.up,mlryupe,mbyumcpypebgsry,mlqs qmbepmkr
ferfpe,msymxpmpkfp sbnntw”

“Smbxmyrgmbgmbnnmk.efesipumbgmtr.,mQbeespgwmGqpmkpecs pmqpmepyupepumtr.
lbkmpyr.dqmgrmlbexmtr.emqpbegw”

“Kpecs p!mrq!msgmlbkmk. qmbymsypjfepkksvnpmrvnsdbgsry!--Gqpmcpet
ep rnnp gsrymramsg,mbyumbnnmgqbgmSmapngmbgmgqpmgsxp--lqpymSmkblmqsx
 rxsyd--qskmyrvnpmnrro--byumxtmlepg qpuypkkmvparepwmK. qmbm qbydp!mSy
rypmxrxpygmk. qmbm qbydp!mAerxmfpeap gmxskpetmgrmfpeap gmqbffsypkk!”

“Sgmskmcpetmybg.ebnwmSgmskmybg.ebn,mbyumsgmskmqryr.ebvnpw--Tpk,
qryr.ebvnp,mSmgqsyo,mgrm q.kpmkrmlpnnmbyumkrmdebgpa.nntw--V.gmgqbg
sgmlsnnmvpmbmareg.ybgpmfepapepy pmskmxrepmgqbymSm bymferxskpwmSmurmyrg
bucskpmtr.mgrmdscpmlbtmgrmsg,mQbeespgwmSmurmyrgmvtmbytmxpbykmpydbdp
aremsgkmvpsydmepg.eypuwm ryksupemlqbgmtr.mbepmbvr.gwmFpeqbfkmsgmlsnnmvp
lskpkgmsymtr.mgrm qp omtr.emappnsydkmlqsnpmtr.m by:mbgmbytmebgpmurmyrg
npgmgqpxm beetmtr.mabe,m.ynpkkmtr.mbepmfpek.bupumramqskmnsosydmtr.wmVp
rvkpecbygmramqsxwmNpgmqskmvpqbcsr.emvpmgqpmd.supmramtr.emkpykbgsrykwmS
dscpmtr.mgqskm b.gsrymyrl,mvp b.kpmSmkqbnnmypcpemkfpbomgrmtr.mbdbsymry
gqpmk.vzp gwmSmbxmupgpexsypumbdbsykgmbnnmsygpeapepy pwmQpy parelbeumS
oyrlmyrgqsydmramgqpmxbggpewmNpgmyrmybxpmpcpemfbkkmr.emnsfkwmLpmlpepmcpet
lerydmvparep;mlpmlsnnmvpm b.gsr.kmyrlw--Qpmskmtr.emk.fpesre,myrmur.vg,
byumgqpepmurmkppxmrvzp gsrykmbyumrvkgb npkmrambmcpetmkpesr.kmybg.ep;mv.g
tpg,mQbeespg,mxrepmlryupea.nmgqsydkmqbcpmgbopymfnb p,mgqpepmqbcpmvppy
xbg qpkmramdepbgpemuskfbesgtwmV.gmgbopm bepmramtr.ekpnawmSmlr.numyrg
qbcpmtr.mgrrmkbyd.syp;mgqr.dq,mqrlpcpemsgmxbtmpyu,mvpmbkk.epumtr.e
ebsksydmtr.emgqr.dqgkmgrm_qsx_,mskmbmxbeomramdrrumgbkgpmlqs qmSmkqbnn
bnlbtkmoyrlmqrlmgrmcbn.pw”

Qbeespgmoskkpumqpemqbyumsymksnpygmbyumk.vxskkscpmdebgsg.upwmPxxbmlbk
cpetmup supumsymgqsyosydmk. qmbymbggb qxpygmyrmvbumgqsydmaremqpemaespyuw
Sgkmgpyupy tmlr.numvpmgrmebskpmbyumepasypmqpemxsyu--byumsgmx.kgmvp
kbcsydmqpemaerxmgqpmubydpemramupdebubgsryw



 QBFGPEmC


Symgqskmkgbgpmramk qpxpk,mbyumqrfpk,mbyum ryyscby p,mZ.ypmrfpypum.fry
QbegaspnuwmGrmQsdqv.etmsymdpypebnmsgmver.dqgmyrmxbgpesbnm qbydpwmGqp
PngrykmlpepmkgsnnmgbnosydmrambmcsksgmaerxmgqpmK. onsydk,mbyumramgqpm.kp
grmvpmxbupmramgqpsemvber. qp-nbyub.;mbyumZbypmAbseabjmlbkmkgsnnmbgmqpe
debyuxrgqpe'k;mbyumbkmgqpmepg.eymramgqpm bxfvpnnkmaerxmSepnbyumlbkmbdbsy
upnbtpu,mbyumB.d.kg,msykgpbumramXsuk.xxpe,masjpumaremsg,mkqpmlbkmnsopnt
grmepxbsymgqpepma.nnmglrmxrygqkmnrydpe,mfercsupumbgmnpbkgmkqpmlpepmbvnp
grmupapbgmXekwmPngry'kmb gscsgtmsymqpemkpecs p,mbyumkbcpmqpekpnamaerx
vpsydmq.eespumsygrmbmupnsdqga.nmksg.bgsrymbdbsykgmqpemlsnnw

XewmOysdqgnpt,mlqr,maremkrxpmepbkrymvpkgmoyrlymgrmqsxkpna,mqbum pegbsynt
gbopymbympbentmusknsopmgrmAebyom q.e qsnn,mlbkmryntmderlsydmgrmusknsop
qsxmxrepwmQpmvpdbymgrmk.kfp gmqsxmramkrxpmur.vnpmupbnsydmsymqskmf.ek.sg
ramPxxbwmGqbgmPxxbmlbkmqskmrvzp gmbffpbepumsyuskf.gbvnpwmPcpetmgqsyd
up nbepumsg;mqskmrlymbggpygsryk,mqskmabgqpe'kmqsygk,mqskmxrgqpe-sy-nbl'k
d.beupumksnpy p;msgmlbkmbnnmsym.yskry;mlreuk,m ryu. g,musk epgsry,mbyu
syusk epgsry,mgrnumgqpmkbxpmkgretwmV.gmlqsnpmkrmxbytmlpepmupcrgsydmqsx
grmPxxb,mbyumPxxbmqpekpnamxbosydmqsxmrcpemgrmQbeespg,mXewmOysdqgnpt
vpdbymgrmk.kfp gmqsxmramkrxpmsy nsybgsrymgrmgesanpmlsgqmZbypmAbseabjwmQp
 r.numyrgm.yupekgbyumsg;mv.gmgqpepmlpepmktxfgrxkmramsygpnnsdpy pmvpglppy
gqpx--qpmgqr.dqgmkrmbgmnpbkg--ktxfgrxkmrambuxsebgsrymrymqskmksup,mlqs q,
qbcsydmry pmrvkpecpu,mqpm r.numyrgmfpek.bupmqsxkpnamgrmgqsyompygsepnt
crsumramxpbysyd,mqrlpcpemqpmxsdqgmlskqmgrmpk bfpmbytmramPxxb'kmpeerek
ramsxbdsybgsrywm_Kqp_mlbkmyrgmfepkpygmlqpymgqpmk.kfs srymasekgmberkpw
QpmlbkmusysydmlsgqmgqpmEbyubnnkmabxsnt,mbyumZbyp,mbgmgqpmPngryk';mbyumqp
qbumkppymbmnrro,mxrepmgqbymbmksydnpmnrro,mbgmXskkmAbseabj,mlqs q,maerx
gqpmbuxsepemramXskkmLrruqr.kp,mkppxpumkrxplqbgmr.gmramfnb pwmLqpymqpmlbk
bdbsymsymgqpsem rxfbyt,mqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmepxpxvpesydmlqbgmqpmqbumkppy;
yrem r.numqpmbcrsumrvkpecbgsrykmlqs q,m.ynpkkmsgmlpepmnsopm rlfpembyu
qskmasepmbgmglsnsdqg,

“Xtkpnam epbgsydmlqbgmSmkbl,”

ver.dqgmqsxmtpgmkgerydpemk.kfs srymramgqpepmvpsydmbmkrxpgqsydmramfescbgp
nsosyd,mramfescbgpm.yupekgbyusydmpcpy,mvpglppymAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumZbypw

Qpmqbumlbnopum.fmrypmubtmbagpemusyype,mbkmqpmcpetmragpymusu,mgrmkfpyu
qskmpcpysydmbgmQbegaspnuwmPxxbmbyumQbeespgmlpepmdrsydmgrmlbno;mqpmzrsypu
gqpx;mbyu,mrymepg.eysyd,mgqptmapnnmsymlsgqmbmnbedpemfbegt,mlqr,mnsop
gqpxkpncpk,mz.udpumsgmlskpkgmgrmgbopmgqpsempjpe skpmpbent,mbkmgqp
lpbgqpemgqepbgpypumebsy;mXewmbyumXekwmLpkgrymbyumgqpsemkry,mXskkmVbgpk
byumqpemysp p,mlqrmqbumb  supygbnntmxpgwmGqptmbnnm.ysgpu;mbyu,mry
epb qsydmQbegaspnumdbgpk,mPxxb,mlqrmoyplmsgmlbkmpjb gntmgqpmkregmra
csksgsydmgqbgmlr.numvpmlpn rxpmgrmqpemabgqpe,mfepkkpumgqpxmbnnmgrmdrmsy
byumuesyomgpbmlsgqmqsxwmGqpmEbyubnnkmfbegtmbdeppumgrmsgmsxxpusbgpnt;mbyu
bagpembmfepggtmnrydmkfpp qmaerxmXskkmVbgpk,mlqs qmaplmfpekrykmnskgpypu
gr,mkqpmbnkrmar.yumsgmfrkksvnpmgrmb  pfgmupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmxrkg
rvnsdsydmsycsgbgsryw

Bkmgqptmlpepmg.eysydmsygrmgqpmder.yuk,mXewmFpeetmfbkkpumvtmrymqrekpvb ow
Gqpmdpygnpxpymkfropmramqskmqrekpw

“Vtmgqpmvtp,”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnnmgrmXekwmLpkgrymfepkpygnt,m“lqbg
vp bxpmramXewmFpeet'kmfnbymramkpggsydm.fmqskm beesbdp?”

XekwmLpkgrymnrropumk.efesipu,mbyumkbsu,m“Smusumyrgmoyrlmgqbgmqpmpcpemqbu
bytmk. qmfnbyw”

“Ybt,mSmqbumsgmaerxmtr.wmTr.mlergpmxpmlreumramsgmgqeppmxrygqkmbdrw”

“Xp!msxfrkksvnp!”

“Syuppumtr.musuwmSmepxpxvpemsgmfpeap gntwmTr.mxpygsrypumsgmbkmlqbg
lbkm pegbsyntmgrmvpmcpetmkrrywmXekwmFpeetmqbumgrnumkrxpvrut,mbyumlbk
pjgepxpntmqbfftmbvr.gmsgwmSgmlbkmrlsydmgrm_qpe_mfpek.bksry,mbkmkqp
gqr.dqgmqskmvpsydmr.gmsymvbumlpbgqpemusumqsxmbmdepbgmupbnmramqbexwmTr.
x.kgmepxpxvpemsgmyrl?”

“.frymxtmlreumSmypcpemqpbeumramsgmgsnnmgqskmxrxpygw”

“Ypcpe!mepbnnt,mypcpe!--Vnpkkmxp!mqrlm r.numsgmvp?--GqpymSmx.kgmqbcp
uepbxgmsg--v.gmSmlbkm rxfnpgpntmfpek.bupu--XskkmKxsgq,mtr.mlbnombkmsa
tr.mlpepmgsepuwmTr.mlsnnmyrgmvpmkreetmgrmasyumtr.ekpnambgmqrxpw”

“Lqbgmskmgqsk?--Lqbgmskmgqsk?”m espumXewmLpkgry,m“bvr.gmFpeetmbyumb
 beesbdp?mSkmFpeetmdrsydmgrmkpgm.fmqskm beesbdp,mAebyo?mSmbxmdnbumqpm by
baareumsgwmTr.mqbumsgmaerxmqsxkpna,mqbumtr.?”

“Yr,mkse,”mepfnspumqskmkry,mnb.dqsyd,m“Smkppxmgrmqbcpmqbumsgmaerx
yrvrutw--Cpetmruu!--Smepbnntmlbkmfpek.bupumramXekwmLpkgry'kmqbcsyd
xpygsrypumsgmsymrypmramqpemnpggpekmgrmPyk rxvp,mxbytmlppokmbdr,mlsgqmbnn
gqpkpmfbegs .nbek--v.gmbkmkqpmup nbepkmkqpmypcpemqpbeumbmktnnbvnpmra
sgmvparep,mram r.ekpmsgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymbmuepbxwmSmbxmbmdepbgmuepbxpew
SmuepbxmrampcpetmvrutmbgmQsdqv.etmlqpymSmbxmblbt--byumlqpymSmqbcpmdryp
gqer.dqmxtmfbegs .nbemaespyuk,mgqpymSmvpdsymuepbxsydmramXewmbyumXekw
Fpeetw”

“Sgmskmruumgqr.dq,”mrvkpecpumqskmabgqpe,m“gqbgmtr.mkqr.numqbcpmqbumk. q
bmepd.nbem ryyp gpumuepbxmbvr.gmfprfnpmlqrxmsgmlbkmyrgmcpetmnsopntmtr.
kqr.numvpmgqsyosydmrambgmPyk rxvpwmFpeet'kmkpggsydm.fmqskm beesbdp!mbyu
qskmlsap'kmfpek.busydmqsxmgrmsg,mr.gmram bepmaremqskmqpbngq--z.kg
lqbgmlsnnmqbffpy,mSmqbcpmyrmur.vg,mkrxpmgsxpmremrgqpe;mryntmbmnsggnp
fepxbg.epwmLqbgmbymbsemramfervbvsnsgtmkrxpgsxpkme.ykmgqer.dqmbmuepbx!
Byumbgmrgqpek,mlqbgmbmqpbfmrambvk.eusgspkmsgmsk!mLpnn,mAebyo,mtr.emuepbx
 pegbsyntmkqplkmgqbgmQsdqv.etmskmsymtr.emgqr.dqgkmlqpymtr.mbepmbvkpygw
Pxxb,mtr.mbepmbmdepbgmuepbxpe,mSmgqsyo?”

Pxxbmlbkmr.gmramqpbesydwmKqpmqbumq.eespumrymvparepmqpemd.pkgkmgr
fepfbepmqpemabgqpemaremgqpsembffpbeby p,mbyumlbkmvptryumgqpmepb qmramXew
Lpkgry'kmqsygw

“Lqt,mgrmrlymgqpmge.gq,”m espumXskkmVbgpk,mlqrmqbumvppymgetsydmsymcbsy
grmvpmqpbeumgqpmnbkgmglrmxsy.gpk,m“samSmx.kgmkfpbomrymgqskmk.vzp g,
gqpepmskmyrmupytsydmgqbgmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmxsdqgmqbcp--Smurmyrgmxpby
grmkbtmgqbgmqpmusumyrgmuepbxmsg--Smbxmk.epmSmqbcpmkrxpgsxpkmgqpmruupkg
uepbxkmsymgqpmlrenu--v.gmsamSmbxmh.pkgsrypumbvr.gmsg,mSmx.kgmb oyrlnpudp
gqbgmgqpepmlbkmk. qmbymsupbmnbkgmkfesyd;maremXekwmFpeetmqpekpna
xpygsrypumsgmgrmxtmxrgqpe,mbyumgqpm rnpkmoyplmramsgmbkmlpnnmbk
r.ekpncpk--v.gmsgmlbkmh.sgpmbmkp epg,moyrlymgrmyrvrutmpnkp,mbyumrynt
gqr.dqgmrambvr.gmgqeppmubtkwmXekwmFpeetmlbkmcpetmbyjsr.kmgqbgmqpmkqr.nu
qbcpmbm beesbdp,mbyum bxpmgrmxtmxrgqpemsymdepbgmkfsesgkmrypmxreysyd
vp b.kpmkqpmgqr.dqgmkqpmqbumfepcbsnpuwmZbyp,mury'gmtr.mepxpxvpe
debyuxbxb'kmgpnnsydm.kmramsgmlqpymlpmdrgmqrxp?mSmaredpgmlqpepmlp
qbumvppymlbnosydmgr--cpetmnsopntmgrmEbyubnnk;mtpk,mSmgqsyomsgmlbkmgr
EbyubnnkwmXekwmFpeetmlbkmbnlbtkmfbegs .nbentmaryumramxtmxrgqpe--syuppu
Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqrmskmyrg--byumkqpmqbumxpygsrypumsgmgrmqpemsym ryasupy p;
kqpmqbumyrmrvzp gsrymgrmqpemgpnnsydm.k,mram r.ekp,mv.gmsgmlbkmyrgmgrmdr
vptryu:mbyu,maerxmgqbgmubtmgrmgqsk,mSmypcpemxpygsrypumsgmgrmbmkr.nmgqbg
SmoyrlmrawmBgmgqpmkbxpmgsxp,mSmlsnnmyrgmfrksgscpntmbyklpemaremxtmqbcsyd
ypcpemuerfgmbmqsyg,mvp b.kpmSmoyrlmSmurmkrxpgsxpkmfrfmr.gmbmgqsydmvparep
SmbxmblbepwmSmbxmbmgbnope,mtr.moyrl;mSmbxmebgqpembmgbnope;mbyumyrlmbyu
gqpymSmqbcpmnpgmbmgqsydmpk bfpmxpmlqs qmSmkqr.numyrgwmSmbxmyrgmnsop
Zbyp;mSmlskqmSmlpepwmSmlsnnmbyklpemaremsgm_kqp_mypcpemvpgebtpumgqpmnpbkg
gqsydmsymgqpmlrenuwmLqpepmskmkqp?--Rq!mz.kgmvpqsyuwmFpeap gntmepxpxvpe
XekwmFpeet'km rxsydw--Pjgebreusybetmuepbx,msyuppu!”

GqptmlpepmpygpesydmgqpmqbnnwmXewmOysdqgnpt'kmptpkmqbumfep pupumXskk
Vbgpk'kmsymbmdnby pmbgmZbypwmAerxmAebyom q.e qsnn'kmab p,mlqpep
qpmgqr.dqgmqpmkblm rya.ksrymk.ffepkkpumremnb.dqpumblbt,mqpmqbu
sycrn.ygbesntmg.eypumgrmqpek;mv.gmkqpmlbkmsyuppumvpqsyu,mbyumgrrmv.kt
lsgqmqpemkqblnwmXewmLpkgrymqbumlbnopumsywmGqpmglrmrgqpemdpygnpxpymlbsgpu
bgmgqpmurremgrmnpgmqpemfbkkwmXewmOysdqgnptmk.kfp gpumsymAebyo
 q.e qsnnmgqpmupgpexsybgsrymram bg qsydmqpemptp--qpmkppxpumlbg qsydmqpe
sygpygnt--symcbsy,mqrlpcpe,msamsgmlpepmkr--Zbypmfbkkpumvpglppymgqpx
sygrmgqpmqbnn,mbyumnrropumbgmypsgqpew

GqpepmlbkmyrmgsxpmaremabegqpemepxbeomrempjfnbybgsrywmGqpmuepbxmx.kgmvp
vreypmlsgq,mbyumXewmOysdqgnptmx.kgmgbopmqskmkpbgmlsgqmgqpmepkgmer.yumgqp
nbedpmxrupeym se .nbemgbvnpmlqs qmPxxbmqbumsygeru. pumbgmQbegaspnu,mbyu
lqs qmyrypmv.gmPxxbm r.numqbcpmqbumfrlpemgrmfnb pmgqpepmbyumfpek.bupmqpe
abgqpemgrm.kp,msykgpbumramgqpmkxbnn-ksipumFpxverop,mrymlqs qmglrmramqsk
ubsntmxpbnkmqbu,maremaregtmtpbekmvppym erlupuwmGpbmfbkkpumfnpbkbygnt,
byumyrvrutmkppxpumsymbmq.eetmgrmxrcpw

“XskkmLrruqr.kp,”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnn,mbagpempjbxsysydmbmgbvnpmvpqsyu
qsx,mlqs qmqpm r.numepb qmbkmqpmkbg,m“qbcpmtr.emypfqplkmgbopymblbtmgqpse
bnfqbvpgk--gqpsemvrjmramnpggpek?mSgm.kpumgrmkgbyumqpepwmLqpepmskmsg?
Gqskmskmbmkregmramu.nn-nrrosydmpcpysyd,mgqbgmr.dqgmgrmvpmgepbgpumebgqpe
bkmlsygpemgqbymk.xxpewmLpmqbumdepbgmbx.kpxpygmlsgqmgqrkpmnpggpekmryp
xreysydwmSmlbygmgrmf.iinpmtr.mbdbsyw”

Pxxbmlbkmfnpbkpumlsgqmgqpmgqr.dqg;mbyumferu. sydmgqpmvrj,mgqpmgbvnp
lbkmh.s ontmk bggpepumrcpemlsgqmbnfqbvpgk,mlqs qmyrmrypmkppxpumkrmx. q
uskfrkpumgrmpxfnrtmbkmgqpsemglrmkpncpkwmGqptmlpepmebfsuntmarexsydmlreuk
arempb qmrgqpe,mremarembytmvrutmpnkpmlqrmlr.numvpmf.iinpuwmGqpmh.spgypkk
ramgqpmdbxpmxbupmsgmfbegs .nbentmpnsdsvnpmaremXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrmqbu
ragpymvppymuskgepkkpumvtmgqpmxrepmbysxbgpumkreg,mlqs qmXewmLpkgrymqbu
r  bksrybnntmsygeru. pu,mbyumlqrmyrlmkbgmqbffsntmr  .fspumsymnbxpygsyd,
lsgqmgpyupemxpnby qrnt,mrcpemgqpmupfbeg.epmramgqpm“frremnsggnpmvrtk,”
mremsymaryuntmfrsygsydmr.g,mbkmqpmgrrom.fmbytmkgebtmnpggpemypbemqsx,mqrl
vpb.gsa.nntmPxxbmqbumlesggpymsgw

Aebyom q.e qsnnmfnb pumbmlreumvparepmXskkmAbseabjwmKqpmdbcpmbmknsdqg
dnby pmer.yumgqpmgbvnp,mbyumbffnspumqpekpnamgrmsgwmAebyomlbkmypjgmgr
Pxxb,mZbypmrffrksgpmgrmgqpx--byumXewmOysdqgnptmkrmfnb pumbkmgrmkppmgqpx
bnn;mbyumsgmlbkmqskmrvzp gmgrmkppmbkmx. qmbkmqpm r.nu,mlsgqmbkmnsggnp
bffbepygmrvkpecbgsrywmGqpmlreumlbkmusk rcpepu,mbyumlsgqmbmabsygmkxsnp
f.kqpumblbtwmSamxpbygmgrmvpmsxxpusbgpntmxsjpumlsgqmgqpmrgqpek,mbyu
v.espumaerxmksdqg,mkqpmkqr.numqbcpmnrropumrymgqpmgbvnpmsykgpbumra
nrrosydmz.kgmb erkk,maremsgmlbkmyrgmxsjpu;mbyumQbeespg,mpbdpembagpe
pcpetmaepkqmlreu,mbyumasyusydmr.gmyryp,musep gntmgrromsgm.f,mbyumapnnmgr
lreowmKqpmlbkmksggsydmvtmXewmOysdqgnpt,mbyumg.eypumgrmqsxmaremqpnfwmGqp
lreumlbkm_vn.yupe_;mbyumbkmQbeespgmpj.ngsydntmfer nbsxpumsg,mgqpepmlbkmb
vn.kqmrymZbyp'km qppomlqs qmdbcpmsgmbmxpbysydmyrgmrgqpelskpmrkgpyksvnpw
XewmOysdqgnptm ryyp gpumsgmlsgqmgqpmuepbx;mv.gmqrlmsgm r.numbnnmvp,
lbkmvptryumqskm rxfepqpyksrywmQrlmgqpmupns b t,mgqpmusk epgsrymramqsk
abcr.esgpm r.numqbcpmvppymkrmnbsymbknppf!mQpmapbepumgqpepmx.kgmvpmkrxp
up supumsycrncpxpygwmUsksydpy.r.kypkkmbyumur.vnpmupbnsydmkppxpumgrmxppg
qsxmbgmpcpetmg.eywmGqpkpmnpggpekmlpepmv.gmgqpmcpqs npmaremdbnnbygetmbyu
ges owmSgmlbkmbm qsnu'kmfnbt,m qrkpymgrm ry pbnmbmuppfpemdbxpmrymAebyo
 q.e qsnn'kmfbegw

Lsgqmdepbgmsyusdybgsrymusumqpm rygsy.pmgrmrvkpecpmqsx;mlsgqmdepbgmbnbex
byumuskge.kg,mgrmrvkpecpmbnkrmqskmglrmvnsyupum rxfbysrykwmQpmkblmbmkqreg
lreumfepfbepumaremPxxb,mbyumdscpymgrmqpemlsgqmbmnrromkntmbyumupx.epwmQp
kblmgqbgmPxxbmqbumkrrymxbupmsgmr.g,mbyumar.yumsgmqsdqntmpygpegbsysyd,
gqr.dqmsgmlbkmkrxpgqsydmlqs qmkqpmz.udpumsgmferfpemgrmbffpbemgrm pyk.ep;
aremkqpmkbsu,m“Yrykpykp!maremkqbxp!”mQpmqpbeumAebyom q.e qsnnmypjgmkbt,
lsgqmbmdnby pmgrlbeukmZbyp,m“Smlsnnmdscpmsgmgrmqpe--kqbnnmS?”--byumbk
 npbentmqpbeumPxxbmrffrksydmsgmlsgqmpbdpemnb.dqsydmlbexgqwm“Yr,myr,mtr.
x.kgmyrg;mtr.mkqbnnmyrg,msyuppuw”

SgmlbkmurypmqrlpcpewmGqskmdbnnbygmtr.ydmxby,mlqrmkppxpumgrmnrcpmlsgqr.g
appnsyd,mbyumgrmep rxxpyumqsxkpnamlsgqr.gm rxfnbskby p,musep gntmqbyupu
rcpemgqpmlreumgrmXskkmAbseabj,mbyumlsgqmbmfbegs .nbemupdeppmramkpubgp
 scsnsgtmpygepbgpumqpemgrmkg.utmsgwmXewmOysdqgnpt'kmpj pkkscpm .esrksgt
grmoyrlmlqbgmgqskmlreumxsdqgmvp,mxbupmqsxmkpsipmpcpetmfrkksvnpmxrxpyg
aremubegsydmqskmptpmgrlbeukmsg,mbyumsgmlbkmyrgmnrydmvparepmqpmkblmsg
grmvpm_Usjry_wmZbypmAbseabj'kmfpe pfgsrymkppxpumgrmb  rxfbytmqsk;
qpem rxfepqpyksrymlbkm pegbsyntmxrepmph.bnmgrmgqpm rcpegmxpbysyd,
gqpmk.fpesremsygpnnsdpy p,mramgqrkpmascpmnpggpekmkrmbeebydpuwmKqpmlbk
pcsupygntmuskfnpbkpu;mnrropum.f,mbyumkppsydmqpekpnamlbg qpu,mvn.kqpu
xrepmuppfntmgqbymqpmqbumpcpemfpe pscpumqpe,mbyumkbtsydmrynt,m“Smusumyrg
oyrlmgqbgmferfpemybxpkmlpepmbnnrlpu,”mf.kqpumblbtmgqpmnpggpekmlsgqmpcpy
bymbydetmkfsesg,mbyumnrropumepkrncpumgrmvpmpydbdpumvtmyrmrgqpemlreu
gqbgm r.numvpmraapepuwmQpemab pmlbkmbcpegpumaerxmgqrkpmlqrmqbumxbupmgqp
bggb o,mbyumg.eypumgrlbeukmqpemb.ygw

“Btp,mcpetmge.p,mxtmupbe,”m espumgqpmnbggpe,mgqr.dqmZbypmqbumyrgmkfropy
bmlreu--“Smlbkmz.kgmdrsydmgrmkbtmgqpmkbxpmgqsydwmSgmskmgsxpmarem.kmgrmvp
drsydmsyuppuwmGqpmpcpysydmskm nrksydmsy,mbyumdebyuxbxbmlsnnmvpmnrrosyd
arem.kwmXtmupbemkse,mtr.mbepmgrrmrvnsdsydwmLpmepbnntmx.kgmlskqmtr.mdrru
ysdqgw”

Zbyp'kmbnpegypkkmsymxrcsyd,mfercpumqpembkmepbutmbkmqpemb.ygmqbu
fep ry pscpuwmKqpmlbkmsxxpusbgpntm.f,mbyumlbygsydmgrmh.sgmgqpmgbvnp;mv.g
krmxbytmlpepmbnkrmxrcsyd,mgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmdpgmblbt;mbyumXewmOysdqgnpt
gqr.dqgmqpmkblmbyrgqpem rnnp gsrymramnpggpekmbyjsr.kntmf.kqpumgrlbeuk
qpe,mbyumepkrn.gpntmklpfgmblbtmvtmqpem.ypjbxsypuwmKqpmlbkmbagpelbeuk
nrrosydmaremqpemkqbln--Aebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmnrrosydmbnkr--sgmlbkmderlsyd
u.ko,mbyumgqpmerrxmlbkmsym rya.ksry;mbyumqrlmgqptmfbegpu,mXewmOysdqgnpt
 r.numyrgmgpnnw

QpmepxbsypumbgmQbegaspnumbagpembnnmgqpmepkg,mqskmgqr.dqgkma.nnmra
lqbgmqpmqbumkppy;mkrma.nn,mgqbgmlqpymgqpm byunpkm bxpmgrmbkkskgmqsk
rvkpecbgsryk,mqpmx.kg--tpk,mqpm pegbsyntmx.kg,mbkmbmaespyu--bymbyjsr.k
aespyu--dscpmPxxbmkrxpmqsyg,mbkomqpemkrxpmh.pkgsrywmQpm r.numyrgmkppmqpe
symbmksg.bgsrymramk. qmubydpe,mlsgqr.gmgetsydmgrmfepkpecpmqpewmSgmlbk
qskmu.gtw

“Febt,mPxxb,”mkbsumqp,m“xbtmSmbkomsymlqbgmnbtmgqpmdepbgmbx.kpxpyg,mgqp
frsdybygmkgsydmramgqpmnbkgmlreumdscpymgrmtr.mbyumXskkmAbseabj?mSmkblmgqp
lreu,mbyumbxm .esr.kmgrmoyrlmqrlmsgm r.numvpmkrmcpetmpygpegbsysydmgrmgqp
ryp,mbyumkrmcpetmuskgepkksydmgrmgqpmrgqpew”

Pxxbmlbkmpjgepxpntm rya.kpuwmKqpm r.numyrgmpyu.epmgrmdscpmqsxmgqpmge.p
pjfnbybgsry;maremgqr.dqmqpemk.kfs srykmlpepmvtmyrmxpbykmepxrcpu,mkqpmlbk
epbnntmbkqbxpumramqbcsydmpcpemsxfbegpumgqpxw

“Rq!”mkqpm espumsympcsupygmpxvbeebkkxpyg,m“sgmbnnmxpbygmyrgqsyd;mbmxpep
zropmbxrydmr.ekpncpkw”

“Gqpmzrop,”mqpmepfnspumdebcpnt,m“kppxpum ryasypumgrmtr.mbyumXew
 q.e qsnnw”

Qpmqbumqrfpumkqpmlr.numkfpbombdbsy,mv.gmkqpmusumyrgwmKqpmlr.numebgqpe
v.ktmqpekpnambvr.gmbytmgqsydmgqbymkfpbowmQpmkbgmbmnsggnpmlqsnpmsy
ur.vgwmBmcbespgtmrampcsnkm erkkpumqskmxsyuwmSygpeapepy p--ae.sgnpkk
sygpeapepy pwmPxxb'km rya.ksry,mbyumgqpmb oyrlnpudpumsygsxb t,mkppxpumgr
up nbepmqpembaap gsrympydbdpuwmTpgmqpmlr.numkfpbowmQpmrlpumsgmgrmqpe,
grmeskombytmgqsydmgqbgmxsdqgmvpmsycrncpumsymbym.ylpn rxpmsygpeapepy p,
ebgqpemgqbymqpemlpnabep;mgrmpy r.ygpembytmgqsyd,mebgqpemgqbymgqp
epxpxveby pmramypdnp gmsymk. qmbm b.kpw

“XtmupbemPxxb,”mkbsumqpmbgmnbkg,mlsgqmpbeypkgmosyuypkk,m“urmtr.
gqsyomtr.mfpeap gntm.yupekgbyumgqpmupdeppmramb h.bsygby pmvpglppymgqp
dpygnpxbymbyumnbutmlpmqbcpmvppymkfpbosydmra?”

“VpglppymXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmAbseabj?mRq!mtpk,mfpeap gntw--Lqt
urmtr.mxbopmbmur.vgmramsg?”

“Qbcpmtr.mypcpembgmbytmgsxpmqbumepbkrymgrmgqsyomgqbgmqpmbuxsepumqpe,mre
gqbgmkqpmbuxsepumqsx?”

“Ypcpe,mypcpe!”mkqpm espumlsgqmbmxrkgmrfpympbdpeypkk--“Ypcpe,maremgqp
glpygspgqmfbegmrambmxrxpyg,musumk. qmbymsupbmr  .emgrmxpwmByumqrlm r.nu
sgmfrkksvntm rxpmsygrmtr.emqpbu?”

“SmqbcpmnbgpntmsxbdsypumgqbgmSmkblmktxfgrxkmrambggb qxpygmvpglppy
gqpx-- pegbsympjfepkkscpmnrrok,mlqs qmSmusumyrgmvpnspcpmxpbygmgrmvp
f.vns w”

“Rq!mtr.mbx.kpmxpmpj pkkscpntwmSmbxmupnsdqgpumgrmasyumgqbgmtr.m by
cr. qkbapmgrmnpgmtr.emsxbdsybgsrymlbyupe--v.gmsgmlsnnmyrgmur--cpetmkreet
grm qp omtr.msymtr.emasekgmpkkbt--v.gmsyuppumsgmlsnnmyrgmurwmGqpepmskmyr
buxsebgsrymvpglppymgqpx,mSmurmbkk.epmtr.;mbyumgqpmbffpbeby pkmlqs q
qbcpm b.dqgmtr.,mqbcpmbeskpymaerxmkrxpmfp .nsbem se .xkgby pk--appnsydk
ebgqpemrambmgrgbnntmusaapepygmybg.ep--sgmskmsxfrkksvnpmpjb gntmgr
pjfnbsy:--gqpepmskmbmdrrumupbnmramyrykpykpmsymsg--v.gmgqpmfbegmlqs qmsk
 bfbvnpmramvpsydm rxx.ys bgpu,mlqs qmskmkpykp,msk,mgqbgmgqptmbepmbkmabe
aerxmbytmbggb qxpygmrembuxsebgsrymaremrypmbyrgqpe,mbkmbytmglrmvpsydkmsy
gqpmlrenum bymvpwmGqbgmsk,mSm_fepk.xp_msgmgrmvpmkrmrymqpemksup,mbyumS
 bym_byklpe_maremsgkmvpsydmkrmrymqskwmSmlsnnmbyklpemaremgqpmdpygnpxby'k
syusaapepy pw”

Kqpmkfropmlsgqmbm ryasupy pmlqs qmkgbddpepu,mlsgqmbmkbgskab gsry
lqs qmksnpy pu,mXewmOysdqgnptwmKqpmlbkmsymdbtmkfsesgk,mbyumlr.numqbcp
fernrydpumgqpm rycpekbgsry,mlbygsydmgrmqpbemgqpmfbegs .nbekmramqsk
k.kfs sryk,mpcpetmnrromupk esvpu,mbyumbnnmgqpmlqpepkmbyumqrlkmramb
 se .xkgby pmlqs qmqsdqntmpygpegbsypumqpe:mv.gmqskmdbspgtmusumyrgmxppg
qpekwmQpmar.yumqpm r.numyrgmvpm.kpa.n,mbyumqskmappnsydkmlpepmgrrmx. q
seesgbgpumaremgbnosydwmGqbgmqpmxsdqgmyrgmvpmseesgbgpumsygrmbymbvkrn.gp
apcpe,mvtmgqpmasepmlqs qmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmgpyupemqbvsgkmeph.sepumbnxrkg
pcpetmpcpysydmgqer.dqr.gmgqpmtpbe,mqpmkrrymbagpelbeukmgrrombmqbkgt
npbcp,mbyumlbnopumqrxpmgrmgqpm rrnypkkmbyumkrnsg.upmramUrylpnnmBvvptw



 QBFGPEmCS


BagpemvpsydmnrydmapumlsgqmqrfpkmrambmkfpputmcsksgmaerxmXewmbyumXekw
K. onsyd,mgqpmQsdqv.etmlrenumlpepmrvnsdpumgrmpyu.epmgqpmxregsas bgsry
ramqpbesydmgqbgmgqptm r.numyrgmfrkksvntm rxpmgsnnmgqpmb.g.xywmYrmk. q
sxfregbgsrymramyrcpngspkm r.numpyes qmgqpsemsygpnnp g.bnmkgrepkmbg
fepkpygwmSymgqpmubsntmsygpe qbydpmramyplk,mgqptmx.kgmvpmbdbsymepkges gpu
grmgqpmrgqpemgrfs kmlsgqmlqs qmarembmlqsnpmgqpmK. onsydk'm rxsydmqbu
vppym.ysgpu,mk. qmbkmgqpmnbkgmb  r.ygkmramXekwm q.e qsnn,mlqrkpmqpbngq
kppxpumpcpetmubtmgrmk.ffntmbmusaapepygmepfreg,mbyumgqpmksg.bgsrymramXekw
Lpkgry,mlqrkpmqbffsypkkmsgmlbkmgrmvpmqrfpumxsdqgmpcpyg.bnntmvpmbkmx. q
sy epbkpumvtmgqpmbeescbnmrambm qsnu,mbkmgqbgmrambnnmqpemypsdqvr.ekmlbk
vtmgqpmbfferb qmramsgw

XekwmPngrymlbkmcpetmx. qmuskbffrsygpuwmSgmlbkmgqpmupnbtmrambmdepbgmupbn
ramfnpbk.epmbyumfbebupwmQpemsygeru. gsrykmbyumep rxxpyubgsrykmx.kgmbnn
lbsg,mbyumpcpetmferzp gpumfbegtmvpmkgsnnmryntmgbnopumrawmKrmkqpmgqr.dqg
bgmasekg;--v.gmbmnsggnpm ryksupebgsrym rycsy pumqpemgqbgmpcpetmgqsyd
yppumyrgmvpmf.gmraawmLqtmkqr.numyrgmgqptmpjfnrepmgrmVrjmQsnnmgqr.dq
gqpmK. onsydkmusumyrgm rxp?mGqptm r.numdrmgqpepmbdbsymlsgqmgqpxmsymgqp
b.g.xywmSgmlbkmkpggnpumgqbgmgqptmkqr.numdrmgrmVrjmQsnnwmGqbgmgqpepmlbk
grmvpmk. qmbmfbegtmqbumvppymnrydmdpypebnntmoyrly:msgmqbumpcpymdscpymgqp
supbmrambyrgqpewmPxxbmqbumypcpemvppymgrmVrjmQsnn;mkqpmlskqpumgrmkppmlqbg
pcpetmvrutmar.yumkrmlpnnmlregqmkppsyd,mbyumkqpmbyumXewmLpkgrymqbumbdeppu
grm q.kpmkrxpmasypmxreysydmbyumuescpmgqsgqpewmGlrmremgqeppmxrepmramgqp
 qrkpymryntmlpepmgrmvpmbuxsggpumgrmzrsymgqpx,mbyumsgmlbkmgrmvpmurypmsymb
h.spg,m.yfepgpyusyd,mpnpdbygmlbt,msyasysgpntmk.fpesremgrmgqpmv.kgnpmbyu
fepfbebgsry,mgqpmepd.nbempbgsydmbyumuesyosyd,mbyumfs ys mfbebupmramgqp
PngrykmbyumgqpmK. onsydkw

Gqskmlbkmkrmcpetmlpnnm.yupekgrrumvpglppymgqpx,mgqbgmPxxbm r.numyrgmv.g
appnmkrxpmk.efeskp,mbyumbmnsggnpmuskfnpbk.ep,mrymqpbesydmaerxmXewmLpkgry
gqbgmqpmqbumvppymferfrksydmgrmXekwmPngry,mbkmqpemvergqpembyumkskgpemqbu
absnpumqpe,mgqbgmgqpmglrmfbegspkmkqr.num.ysgp,mbyumdrmgrdpgqpe;mbyumgqbg
bkmXekwmPngrymqbumcpetmepbusntmb  pupumgrmsg,mkrmsgmlbkmgrmvp,msamkqp
qbumyrmrvzp gsrywmYrl,mbkmqpemrvzp gsrymlbkmyrgqsydmv.gmqpemcpetmdepbg
usknsopmramXekwmPngry,mramlqs qmXewmLpkgrymx.kgmbnepbutmvpmfpeap gnt
blbep,msgmlbkmyrgmlregqmvesydsydmarelbeumbdbsy:--sgm r.numyrgmvpmuryp
lsgqr.gmbmepferramgrmqsx,mlqs qmlr.numvpmdscsydmfbsymgrmqskmlsap;mbyu
kqpmar.yumqpekpnamgqpeparepmrvnsdpumgrm rykpygmgrmbymbeebydpxpygmlqs q
kqpmlr.numqbcpmurypmbmdepbgmupbnmgrmbcrsu;mbymbeebydpxpygmlqs qmlr.nu
fervbvntmpjfrkpmqpempcpymgrmgqpmupdebubgsrymramvpsydmkbsumgrmvpmramXekw
Pngry'kmfbegt!mPcpetmappnsydmlbkmraapyupu;mbyumgqpmarevpbeby pmramqpe
r.glbeumk.vxskksrymnpagmbmqpbctmbeepbemu.pmramkp epgmkpcpesgtmsymqpe
epanp gsrykmrymgqpm.yxbybdpbvnpmdrrulsnnmramXewmLpkgry'kmgpxfpew

“Smbxmdnbumtr.mbffercpmramlqbgmSmqbcpmuryp,”mkbsumqpmcpetm rxaregbvntw
“V.gmSmgqr.dqgmtr.mlr.nuwmK. qmk qpxpkmbkmgqpkpmbepmyrgqsydmlsgqr.g
y.xvpekwmRypm byyrgmqbcpmgrrmnbedpmbmfbegtwmBmnbedpmfbegtmkp .epkmsgk
rlymbx.kpxpygwmByumkqpmskmbmdrru-ybg.epumlrxbymbagpembnnwmRypm r.numyrg
npbcpmqpemr.gw”

Pxxbmupyspumyrypmramsgmbnr.u,mbyumbdeppumgrmyrypmramsgmsymfescbgpw

SgmlbkmyrlmgqpmxsuunpmramZ.yp,mbyumgqpmlpbgqpemasyp;mbyumXekwmPngry
lbkmderlsydmsxfbgspygmgrmybxpmgqpmubt,mbyumkpggnpmlsgqmXewmLpkgrymbkmgr
fsdpry-fspkmbyum rnumnbxv,mlqpymbmnbxpm beesbdp-qrekpmgqeplmpcpetmgqsyd
sygrmkbum.y pegbsygtwmSgmxsdqgmvpmlppok,msgmxsdqgmvpmryntmbmaplmubtk,
vparepmgqpmqrekpmlpepm.kpbvnp;mv.gmyrmfepfbebgsrykm r.numvpmcpyg.epu
ry,mbyumsgmlbkmbnnmxpnby qrntmkgbdybgsrywmXekwmPngry'kmepkr.e pkmlpep
sybuph.bgpmgrmk. qmbymbggb ow

“Skmyrgmgqskmxrkgmcpjbgsr.k,mOysdqgnpt?”mkqpm espuw--“Byumk. qmlpbgqpe
arempjfnresyd!--Gqpkpmupnbtkmbyumuskbffrsygxpygkmbepmh.sgpmrusr.kwmLqbg
bepmlpmgrmur?--Gqpmtpbemlsnnmlpbemblbtmbgmgqskmebgp,mbyumyrgqsyd
urypwmVparepmgqskmgsxpmnbkgmtpbemSmbkk.epmtr.mlpmqbumqbumbmupnsdqga.n
pjfnresydmfbegtmaerxmXbfnpmDercpmgrmOsydkmLpkgryw”

“Tr.mqbumvpggpempjfnrepmgrmUrylpnn,”mepfnspumXewmOysdqgnptwm“Gqbgmxbt
vpmurypmlsgqr.gmqrekpkwm rxp,mbyumpbgmxtmkgeblvpeespkwmGqptmbepmesfpysyd
abkgw”

SamXewmOysdqgnptmusumyrgmvpdsymkpesr.knt,mqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmfer ppumkr,
aremqskmferfrkbnmlbkm b.dqgmbgmlsgqmupnsdqg;mbyumgqpm“Rq!mSmkqr.numnsop
sgmrambnnmgqsydk,”mlbkmyrgmfnbsypemsymlreukmgqbymxbyypewmUrylpnnmlbk
abxr.kmaremsgkmkgeblvpeet-vpuk,mlqs qmkppxpumbmfnpbmaremgqpmsycsgbgsry:
v.gmyrmfnpbmlbkmyp pkkbet;m bvvbdp-vpukmlr.numqbcpmvppympyr.dqmgrmgpxfg
gqpmnbut,mlqrmryntmlbygpumgrmvpmdrsydmkrxplqpepwmKqpmferxskpumqsxmbdbsy
byumbdbsymgrm rxp--x. qmragpypemgqbymqpmur.vgpu--byumlbkmpjgepxpnt
debgsaspumvtmk. qmbmferramramsygsxb t,mk. qmbmuskgsyd.skqsydm rxfnsxpyg
bkmkqpm qrkpmgrm ryksupemsgw

“Tr.mxbtmupfpyum.frymxp,”mkbsumkqpwm“Sm pegbsyntmlsnnm rxpwmYbxpmtr.e
ubt,mbyumSmlsnnm rxpwmTr.mlsnnmbnnrlmxpmgrmvesydmZbypmAbseabj?”

“Sm byyrgmybxpmbmubt,”mkbsumqp,m“gsnnmSmqbcpmkfropymgrmkrxpmrgqpekmlqrx
Smlr.numlskqmgrmxppgmtr.w”

“Rq!mnpbcpmbnnmgqbgmgrmxpwmRyntmdscpmxpmbm begp-vnby qpw--SmbxmNbut
Fbgerypkk,mtr.moyrlwmSgmskmxtmfbegtwmSmlsnnmvesydmaespyukmlsgqmxpw”

“Smqrfpmtr.mlsnnmvesydmPngry,”mkbsumqp:m“v.gmSmlsnnmyrgmger.vnpmtr.mgr
dscpmbytmrgqpemsycsgbgsrykw”

“Rq!myrlmtr.mbepmnrrosydmcpetmkntwmV.gm ryksupe--tr.myppumyrgmvpmbaebsu
ramupnpdbgsydmfrlpemgrm_xp_wmSmbxmyrmtr.ydmnbutmrymqpemfepapexpygw
Xbeespumlrxpy,mtr.moyrl,mxbtmvpmkbapntmb.gqreskpuwmSgmskmxtmfbegtwmNpbcp
sgmbnnmgrmxpwmSmlsnnmsycsgpmtr.emd.pkgkw”

“Yr,”--qpm bnxntmepfnspu,--“gqpepmskmv.gmrypmxbeespumlrxbymsymgqpmlrenu
lqrxmSm bympcpembnnrlmgrmsycsgpmlqbgmd.pkgkmkqpmfnpbkpkmgrmUrylpnn,mbyu
gqbgmrypmsk--”

“--XekwmLpkgry,mSmk.ffrkp,”msygpee.fgpumXekwmPngry,mebgqpemxregsaspuw

“Yr--XekwmOysdqgnpt;--byumgsnnmkqpmskmsymvpsyd,mSmlsnnmxbybdpmk. q
xbggpekmxtkpnaw”

“Bq!mtr.mbepmbymruum epbg.ep!”mkqpm espu,mkbgskaspumgrmqbcpmyrmryp
fepapeepumgrmqpekpnaw--“Tr.mbepmbmq.xr.eskg,mbyumxbtmkbtmlqbgmtr.
nsopwmH.sgpmbmq.xr.eskgwmLpnn,mSmkqbnnmvesydmZbypmlsgqmxp--Zbypmbyumqpe
b.ygw--GqpmepkgmSmnpbcpmgrmtr.wmSmqbcpmyrmrvzp gsrykmbgmbnnmgrmxppgsyd
gqpmQbegaspnumabxsntwmUry'gmk e.fnpwmSmoyrlmtr.mbepmbggb qpumgrmgqpxw”

“Tr.m pegbsyntmlsnnmxppgmgqpxmsamSm bymfepcbsn;mbyumSmkqbnnm bnnmrymXskk
Vbgpkmsymxtmlbtmqrxpw”

“Gqbg'kmh.sgpm.yyp pkkbet;mSmkppmZbypmpcpetmubt:--v.gmbkmtr.mnsopwmSg
skmgrmvpmbmxreysydmk qpxp,mtr.moyrl,mOysdqgnpt;mh.sgpmbmksxfnpmgqsydwmS
kqbnnmlpbembmnbedpmvryypg,mbyumvesydmrypmramxtmnsggnpmvbkopgkmqbydsyd
rymxtmbexwmQpep,--fervbvntmgqskmvbkopgmlsgqmfsyomesvvrywmYrgqsydm bymvp
xrepmksxfnp,mtr.mkppwmByumZbypmlsnnmqbcpmk. qmbyrgqpewmGqpepmskmgrmvp
yrmarexmremfbebup--bmkregmramdsfktmfbegtwmLpmbepmgrmlbnombvr.g
tr.emdbeupyk,mbyumdbgqpemgqpmkgeblvpeespkmr.ekpncpk,mbyumksgm.yupe
geppk;--byumlqbgpcpempnkpmtr.mxbtmnsopmgrmfercsup,msgmskmgrmvpmbnnmr.g
ramurrek--bmgbvnpmkfepbumsymgqpmkqbup,mtr.moyrlwmPcpetmgqsydmbkmybg.ebn
byumksxfnpmbkmfrkksvnpwmSkmyrgmgqbgmtr.emsupb?”

“Yrgmh.sgpwmXtmsupbmramgqpmksxfnpmbyumgqpmybg.ebnmlsnnmvpmgrmqbcp
gqpmgbvnpmkfepbumsymgqpmusysyd-errxwmGqpmybg.epmbyumgqpmksxfns sgtmra
dpygnpxpymbyumnbuspk,mlsgqmgqpsemkpecbygkmbyuma.eysg.ep,mSmgqsyomsk
vpkgmrvkpecpumvtmxpbnkmlsgqsymurrekwmLqpymtr.mbepmgsepumrampbgsyd
kgeblvpeespkmsymgqpmdbeupy,mgqpepmkqbnnmvpm rnumxpbgmsymgqpmqr.kpw”

“Lpnn--bkmtr.mfnpbkp;mryntmury'gmqbcpmbmdepbgmkpgmr.gwmByu,mvtmgqpmvtp,
 bymSmremxtmqr.kpoppfpemvpmrambytm.kpmgrmtr.mlsgqmr.emrfsysry?--Febtmvp
ksy pep,mOysdqgnptwmSamtr.mlskqmxpmgrmgbnomgrmXekwmQrudpk,mremgrmsykfp g
bytgqsyd--”

“Smqbcpmyrgmgqpmnpbkgmlskqmaremsg,mSmgqbyomtr.w”

“Lpnn--v.gmsambytmusaas .ngspkmkqr.numbeskp,mxtmqr.kpoppfpemskmpjgepxpnt
 npcpew”

“Smlsnnmbyklpemaremsg,mgqbgmxsypmgqsyokmqpekpnama.nnmbkm npcpe,mbyu
lr.numkf.eymbytmvrut'kmbkkskgby pw”

“SmlskqmlpmqbumbmuryoptwmGqpmgqsydmlr.numvpmarem.kmbnnmgrm rxpmry
uryoptk,mZbyp,mXskkmVbgpk,mbyumxp--byumxtm bermkfrkrmlbnosydmvtwmS
epbnntmx.kgmgbnomgrmqsxmbvr.gmf.e qbksydmbmuryoptwmSymbm r.ygetmnsap
Sm ry pscpmsgmgrmvpmbmkregmramyp pkkbet;mare,mnpgmbmlrxbymqbcpmpcpe
krmxbytmepkr.e pk,msgmskmyrgmfrkksvnpmaremqpemgrmvpmbnlbtkmkq.gm.fmbg
qrxp;--byumcpetmnrydmlbnok,mtr.moyrl--symk.xxpemgqpepmskmu.kg,mbyumsy
lsygpemgqpepmskmusegw”

“Tr.mlsnnmyrgmasyumpsgqpe,mvpglppymUrylpnnmbyumQsdqv.etwmUrylpnnmNbypmsk
ypcpemu.kgt,mbyumyrlmsgmskmfpeap gntmuetwm rxpmrymbmuryopt,mqrlpcpe,msa
tr.mfepapemsgwmTr.m bymvreerlmXekwm rnp'kwmSmlr.numlskqmpcpetmgqsydmgr
vpmbkmx. qmgrmtr.emgbkgpmbkmfrkksvnpw”

“GqbgmSmbxmk.epmtr.mlr.nuwmSyuppumSmurmtr.mz.kgs p,mxtmdrrumaespyuw
.yupemgqbgmfp .nsbemkregmramuet,mvn.ygmxbyype,mSmoyrlmtr.mqbcpmgqp
lbexpkgmqpbegwmBkmSmgpnnmXewmPw,mtr.mbepmbmgqrer.dqmq.xr.eskgw--Tpk,
vpnspcpmxp,mOysdqgnpt,mSmbxma.nntmkpyksvnpmramtr.embggpygsrymgrmxpmsy
gqpmlqrnpmramgqskmk qpxpwmTr.mqbcpmqsgm.frymgqpmcpetmgqsydmgrmfnpbkp
xpw”

XewmOysdqgnptmqbumbyrgqpemepbkrymarembcrsusydmbmgbvnpmsymgqpmkqbupwmQp
lskqpumgrmfpek.bupmXewmLrruqr.kp,mbkmlpnnmbkmPxxb,mgrmzrsymgqpmfbegt;
byumqpmoyplmgqbgmgrmqbcpmbytmramgqpxmksggsydmurlymr.gmramurrekmgr
pbgmlr.numsypcsgbvntmxbopmqsxmsnnwmXewmLrruqr.kpmx.kgmyrg,m.yupemgqp
kfp sr.kmfepgpy pmrambmxreysydmuescp,mbyumbymqr.emremglrmkfpygmbg
Urylpnn,mvpmgpxfgpumblbtmgrmqskmxskpetw

QpmlbkmsycsgpumrymdrrumabsgqwmYrmn.eosydmqreerekmlpepmgrm.fvebsumqsxmare
qskmpbktm epu.nsgtwmQpmusum rykpygwmQpmqbumyrgmvppymbgmUrylpnnmaremglr
tpbekwm“Krxpmcpetmasypmxreysyd,mqp,mbyumPxxb,mbyumQbeespg,m r.numdr
cpetmlpnn;mbyumqpm r.numksgmkgsnnmlsgqmXekwmLpkgry,mlqsnpmgqpmupbemdsenk
lbnopumbvr.gmgqpmdbeupykwmQpmusumyrgmk.ffrkpmgqptm r.numvpmubxfmyrl,
symgqpmxsuunpmramgqpmubtwmQpmkqr.numnsopmgrmkppmgqpmrnumqr.kpmbdbsy
pj ppusydnt,mbyumkqr.numvpmcpetmqbfftmgrmxppgmXewmbyumXekwmPngry,mbyu
bytmrgqpemramqskmypsdqvr.ekw--Qpm r.numyrgmkppmbytmrvzp gsrymbgmbnnmgr
qsk,mbyumPxxb'k,mbyumQbeespg'kmdrsydmgqpepmkrxpmcpetmasypmxreysydwmQp
gqr.dqgmsgmcpetmlpnnmurypmramXewmOysdqgnptmgrmsycsgpmgqpx--cpetmosyu
byumkpyksvnp--x. qm npcpepemgqbymusysydmr.gw--Qpmlbkmyrgmaryumramusysyd
r.gw”

XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmareg.ybgpmsympcpetmvrut'kmxrkgmepbutm ry .eepy pwmGqp
sycsgbgsrymlbkmpcpetlqpepmkrmlpnnmep pscpu,mgqbgmsgmkppxpumbkmsa,mnsop
XekwmPngry,mgqptmlpepmbnnmgbosydmgqpmk qpxpmbkmbmfbegs .nbem rxfnsxpyg
grmgqpxkpncpkw--PxxbmbyumQbeespgmferapkkpumcpetmqsdqmpjfp gbgsrykmra
fnpbk.epmaerxmsg;mbyumXewmLpkgry,m.ybkopu,mferxskpumgrmdpgmAebyomrcpemgr
zrsymgqpx,msamfrkksvnp;mbmferramrambffervbgsrymbyumdebgsg.upmlqs qm r.nu
qbcpmvppymuskfpykpumlsgqw--XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmgqpymrvnsdpumgrmkbtmgqbg
qpmkqr.numvpmdnbumgrmkppmqsx;mbyumXewmLpkgrympydbdpumgrmnrkpmyrmgsxpmsy
lesgsyd,mbyumkfbepmyrmbed.xpygkmgrmsyu. pmqsxmgrm rxpw

Symgqpmxpbylqsnpmgqpmnbxpmqrekpmep rcpepumkrmabkg,mgqbgmgqpmfbegtmgr
VrjmQsnnmlbkmbdbsym.yupemqbfftm ryksupebgsry;mbyumbgmnbkgmUrylpnnmlbk
kpggnpumaremrypmubt,mbyumVrjmQsnnmaremgqpmypjg,--gqpmlpbgqpembffpbesyd
pjb gntmesdqgw

.yupembmvesdqgmxsu-ubtmk.y,mbgmbnxrkgmXsuk.xxpe,mXewmLrruqr.kpmlbk
kbapntm rycptpumsymqskm beesbdp,mlsgqmrypmlsyurlmurly,mgrmfbegbopmra
gqskmbn-aepk rmfbegt;mbyumsymrypmramgqpmxrkgm rxaregbvnpmerrxkmsymgqp
Bvvpt,mpkfp sbnntmfepfbepumaremqsxmvtmbmasepmbnnmgqpmxreysyd,mqpmlbk
qbffsntmfnb pu,mh.sgpmbgmqskmpbkp,mepbutmgrmgbnomlsgqmfnpbk.epmramlqbg
qbumvppymb qspcpu,mbyumbucskpmpcpetmvrutmgrm rxpmbyumksgmurly,mbyumyrg
grmqpbgmgqpxkpncpkw--XekwmLpkgry,mlqrmkppxpumgrmqbcpmlbnopumgqpepmry
f.efrkpmgrmvpmgsepu,mbyumksgmbnnmgqpmgsxpmlsgqmqsx,mepxbsypu,mlqpy
bnnmgqpmrgqpekmlpepmsycsgpumremfpek.bupumr.g,mqskmfbgspygmnskgpypembyu
ktxfbgqskpew

Sgmlbkmkrmnrydmksy pmPxxbmqbumvppymbgmgqpmBvvpt,mgqbgmbkmkrrymbkmkqpmlbk
kbgskaspumramqpemabgqpe'km rxareg,mkqpmlbkmdnbumgrmnpbcpmqsx,mbyumnrro
ber.yumqpe;mpbdpemgrmepaepkqmbyum reep gmqpemxpxretmlsgqmxrepmfbegs .nbe
rvkpecbgsry,mxrepmpjb gm.yupekgbyusydmrambmqr.kpmbyumder.yukmlqs qmx.kg
pcpemvpmkrmsygpepkgsydmgrmqpembyumbnnmqpemabxsntw

Kqpmapngmbnnmgqpmqrypkgmfesupmbyum rxfnb py tmlqs qmqpembnnsby pmlsgq
gqpmfepkpygmbyuma.g.epmferfespgrem r.numabsentmlbeebyg,mbkmkqpmcsplpu
gqpmepkfp gbvnpmksipmbyumkgtnpmramgqpmv.snusyd,msgkmk.sgbvnp,mvp rxsyd,
 qbeb gpeskgs mksg.bgsry,mnrlmbyumkqpngpepu--sgkmbxfnpmdbeupyk
kgepg qsydmurlymgrmxpburlkmlbkqpumvtmbmkgepbx,mramlqs qmgqpmBvvpt,mlsgq
bnnmgqpmrnumypdnp gmramferkfp g,mqbumk be pntmbmksdqg--byumsgkmbv.yuby p
ramgsxvpemsymerlkmbyumbcpy.pk,mlqs qmypsgqpemabkqsrymyrempjgebcbdby p
qbumerrgpum.fw--Gqpmqr.kpmlbkmnbedpemgqbymQbegaspnu,mbyumgrgbnntm.ynsop
sg,m rcpesydmbmdrrumupbnmramder.yu,mebxvnsydmbyumseepd.nbe,mlsgqmxbyt
 rxaregbvnp,mbyumrypmremglrmqbyukrxpmerrxkw--Sgmlbkmz.kgmlqbgmsgmr.dqg
grmvp,mbyumsgmnrropumlqbgmsgmlbk--byumPxxbmapngmbymsy epbksydmepkfp g
aremsg,mbkmgqpmepksupy pmrambmabxsntmramk. qmge.pmdpygsnsgt,m.ygbsygpu
symvnrrumbyum.yupekgbyusydw--Krxpmab.ngkmramgpxfpemZrqymOysdqgnptmqbu;
v.gmSkbvpnnbmqbum ryyp gpumqpekpnam.ypj pfgsrybvntwmKqpmqbumdscpymgqpx
ypsgqpemxpy,myremybxpk,myremfnb pk,mgqbgm r.numebskpmbmvn.kqwmGqpkpmlpep
fnpbkbygmappnsydk,mbyumkqpmlbnopumbvr.gmbyumsyu.ndpumgqpxmgsnnmsg
lbkmyp pkkbetmgrmurmbkmgqpmrgqpekmusu,mbyum rnnp gmer.yumgqp
kgeblvpeet-vpukw--Gqpmlqrnpmfbegtmlpepmbkkpxvnpu,mpj pfgsydmAebyo
 q.e qsnn,mlqrmlbkmpjfp gpumpcpetmxrxpygmaerxmEs qxryu;mbyumXekwmPngry,
symbnnmqpembffbebg.kmramqbffsypkk,mqpemnbedpmvryypgmbyumqpemvbkopg,
lbkmcpetmepbutmgrmnpbumgqpmlbtmsymdbgqpesyd,mb  pfgsyd,mre
gbnosyd--kgeblvpeespk,mbyumryntmkgeblvpeespk,m r.numyrlmvpmgqr.dqgmre
kfropymraw--“Gqpmvpkgmae.sgmsymPydnbyu--pcpetmvrut'kmabcr.esgp--bnlbtk
lqrnpkrxpw--Gqpkpmgqpmasypkgmvpukmbyumasypkgmkregkw--Upnsdqga.nmgr
dbgqpemaremryp'kmkpna--gqpmryntmlbtmramepbnntmpyzrtsydmgqpxw--Xreysyd
up supuntmgqpmvpkgmgsxp--ypcpemgsepu--pcpetmkregmdrru--qb.gvrt
syasysgpntmk.fpesre--yrm rxfbeskry--gqpmrgqpekmqbeuntmpbgbvnp--qb.gvrtk
cpetmk be p-- qsnsmfepapeepu--lqsgpmlrrumasypkgmanbcr.emrambnn--fes p
ramkgeblvpeespkmsymNryury--bv.yuby pmbvr.gmVeskgrn--Xbfnp
Dercp-- .ngscbgsry--vpukmlqpymgrmvpmepyplpu--dbeupypekmgqsyosydmpjb gnt
usaapepyg--yrmdpypebnme.np--dbeupypekmypcpemgrmvpmf.gmr.gmramgqpse
lbt--upns sr.kmae.sg--ryntmgrrmes qmgrmvpmpbgpymx. qmra--syapesre
grm qpeespk-- .eebygkmxrepmepaepkqsyd--ryntmrvzp gsrymgrmdbgqpesyd
kgeblvpeespkmgqpmkgrrfsyd--dnbesydmk.y--gsepumgrmupbgq-- r.numvpbemsgmyr
nrydpe--x.kgmdrmbyumksgmsymgqpmkqbupw”

K. q,maremqbnambymqr.e,mlbkmgqpm rycpekbgsry--sygpee.fgpumryntmry pmvt
XekwmLpkgry,mlqrm bxpmr.g,msymqpemkrns sg.upmbagpemqpemkry-sy-nbl,mgr
syh.sepmsamqpmlpepm rxp--byumkqpmlbkmbmnsggnpm.ypbktw--Kqpmqbumkrxp
apbekmramqskmqrekpw

Kpbgkmgrnpebvntmsymgqpmkqbupmlpepmar.yu;mbyumyrlmPxxbmlbkmrvnsdpu
grmrcpeqpbemlqbgmXekwmPngrymbyumZbypmAbseabjmlpepmgbnosydmraw--B
ksg.bgsry,mbmxrkgmupksebvnpmksg.bgsry,mlbkmsymh.pkgsrywmXekwmPngrymqbu
ep pscpumyrgs pmramsgmgqbgmxreysyd,mbyumlbkmsymebfg.epkwmSgmlbkmyrg
lsgqmXekwmK. onsyd,msgmlbkmyrgmlsgqmXekwmVebddp,mv.gmsymapns sgtmbyu
kfnpyur.emsgmapnnmkqregmryntmramgqpx:msgmlbkmlsgqmbm r.ksymramXekw
Vebddp,mbymb h.bsygby pmramXekwmK. onsyd,mbmnbutmoyrlymbgmXbfnpmDercpw
Upnsdqga.n,m qbexsyd,mk.fpesre,masekgm se npk,mkfqpepk,mnsypk,mebyok,
pcpetmgqsyd--byumXekwmPngrymlbkmlsnumgrmqbcpmgqpmraapem nrkpumlsgq
sxxpusbgpntw--Rymqpemksup,mbnnmlbkmlbexgq,mpypedt,mbyumges.xfq--byumkqp
frksgscpntmepa.kpumgrmgbopmqpemaespyu'kmypdbgscp,mgqr.dqmXskkmAbseabj
 rygsy.pumgrmbkk.epmqpemgqbgmkqpmlr.numyrgmbgmfepkpygmpydbdpmsymbyt
gqsyd,mepfpbgsydmgqpmkbxpmxrgscpkmlqs qmkqpmqbumvppymqpbeumgrm.edp
vparepw--KgsnnmXekwmPngrymsykskgpumrymvpsydmb.gqreskpumgrmlesgpmby
b h.spk py pmvtmgqpmxreerl'kmfrkgw--QrlmZbypm r.numvpbemsgmbgmbnn,mlbk
bkgryskqsydmgrmPxxbw--Kqpmusumnrromcpjpu,mkqpmusumkfpbomfrsygpunt--byu
bgmnbkg,mlsgqmbmup sksrymramb gsrym.y.k.bnmgrmqpe,mferfrkpumb
epxrcbnw--“Kqr.numyrgmgqptmlbno?mLr.numyrgmXewmOysdqgnptmkqplmgqpxmgqp
dbeupyk--bnnmgqpmdbeupyk?--Kqpmlskqpumgrmkppmgqpmlqrnpmpjgpygw”--Gqp
fpegsyb sgtmramqpemaespyumkppxpumxrepmgqbymkqpm r.numvpbew

Sgmlbkmqrg;mbyumbagpemlbnosydmkrxpmgsxpmrcpemgqpmdbeupykmsymbmk bggpepu,
uskfpekpumlbt,mk be pntmbytmgqeppmgrdpgqpe,mgqptmsykpyksvntmarnnrlpumryp
byrgqpemgrmgqpmupns sr.kmkqbupmrambmverbumkqregmbcpy.pmramnsxpk,mlqs q
kgepg qsydmvptryumgqpmdbeupymbgmbymph.bnmuskgby pmaerxmgqpmescpe,mkppxpu
gqpmasyskqmramgqpmfnpbk.epmder.yukw--Sgmnpumgrmyrgqsyd;myrgqsydmv.gmb
csplmbgmgqpmpyumrcpembmnrlmkgrypmlbnnmlsgqmqsdqmfsnnbek,mlqs qmkppxpu
sygpyupu,msymgqpsempep gsry,mgrmdscpmgqpmbffpbeby pmrambymbfferb qmgr
gqpmqr.kp,mlqs qmypcpemqbumvppymgqpepwmUskf.gbvnp,mqrlpcpe,mbkmxsdqgmvp
gqpmgbkgpmramk. qmbmgpexsybgsry,msgmlbkmsymsgkpnambm qbexsydmlbno,mbyu
gqpmcsplmlqs qm nrkpumsgmpjgepxpntmfepggtw--Gqpm ryksupebvnpmknrfp,mbg
ypbentmgqpmarrgmramlqs qmgqpmBvvptmkgrru,mdebu.bnntmb h.sepumbmkgppfpe
arexmvptryumsgkmder.yuk;mbyumbgmqbnambmxsnpmuskgbygmlbkmbmvbyomra
 ryksupebvnpmbve.fgypkkmbyumdebyup.e,mlpnnm nrgqpumlsgqmlrru;--byumbg
gqpmvrggrxmramgqskmvbyo,mabcr.ebvntmfnb pumbyumkqpngpepu,merkpmgqp
BvvptmXsnnmAbex,mlsgqmxpburlkmsymaeryg,mbyumgqpmescpemxbosydmbm nrkpmbyu
qbyukrxpm .ecpmber.yumsgw

Sgmlbkmbmklppgmcspl--klppgmgrmgqpmptpmbyumgqpmxsyuwmPydnskqmcpeu.ep,
Pydnskqm .ng.ep,mPydnskqm rxareg,mkppym.yupembmk.ymvesdqg,mlsgqr.gmvpsyd
rffepkkscpw

SymgqskmlbnomPxxbmbyumXewmLpkgrymar.yumbnnmgqpmrgqpekmbkkpxvnpu;mbyu
grlbeukmgqskmcsplmkqpmsxxpusbgpntmfpe pscpumXewmOysdqgnptmbyumQbeespg
uskgsy gmaerxmgqpmepkg,mh.spgntmnpbusydmgqpmlbtwmXewmOysdqgnptmbyu
Qbeespg!--Sgmlbkmbymruumgpgp-b-gpgp;mv.gmkqpmlbkmdnbumgrmkppmsgw--Gqpep
qbumvppymbmgsxpmlqpymqpmlr.numqbcpmk reypumqpembkmbm rxfbysry,mbyu
g.eypumaerxmqpemlsgqmnsggnpm pepxrytwmYrlmgqptmkppxpumsymfnpbkbyg
 rycpekbgsrywmGqpepmqbumvppymbmgsxpmbnkrmlqpymPxxbmlr.numqbcpmvppymkreet
grmkppmQbeespgmsymbmkfrgmkrmabcr.ebvnpmaremgqpmBvvptmXsnnmAbex;mv.gmyrl
kqpmapbepumsgmyrgwmSgmxsdqgmvpmkbapntmcsplpumlsgqmbnnmsgkmbffpyubdpkmra
ferkfpesgtmbyumvpb.gt,msgkmes qmfbkg.epk,mkfepbusydmanr ok,mre qbeumsy
vnrkkrx,mbyumnsdqgm rn.xymramkxropmbk pyusydw--Kqpmzrsypumgqpxmbgmgqp
lbnn,mbyumar.yumgqpxmxrepmpydbdpumsymgbnosydmgqbymsymnrrosydmber.yuwmQp
lbkmdscsydmQbeespgmsyarexbgsrymbkmgrmxrupkmrambdes .ng.ep,mpg wmbyumPxxb
ep pscpumbmkxsnpmlqs qmkppxpumgrmkbt,m“Gqpkpmbepmxtmrlym ry peykwmSmqbcp
bmesdqgmgrmgbnomrymk. qmk.vzp gk,mlsgqr.gmvpsydmk.kfp gpumra
sygeru. sydmErvpegmXbegsyw”--Kqpmusumyrgmk.kfp gmqsxwmSgmlbkmgrrmrnu
bmkgretw--ErvpegmXbegsymqbumfervbvntm pbkpumgrmgqsyomramQbeespgw--Gqpt
grrombmaplmg.eykmgrdpgqpembnrydmgqpmlbnow--Gqpmkqbupmlbkmxrkg
epaepkqsyd,mbyumPxxbmar.yumsgmgqpmfnpbkbygpkgmfbegmramgqpmubtw

Gqpmypjgmepxrcpmlbkmgrmgqpmqr.kp;mgqptmx.kgmbnnmdrmsymbyumpbg;--byumgqpt
lpepmbnnmkpbgpumbyumv.kt,mbyumkgsnnmAebyom q.e qsnnmusumyrgm rxpwmXekw
Lpkgrymnrropu,mbyumnrropumsymcbsywmQskmabgqpemlr.numyrgmrlymqsxkpna
.ypbkt,mbyumnb.dqpumbgmqpemapbek;mv.gmkqpm r.numyrgmvpm .epumramlskqsyd
gqbgmqpmlr.numfbegmlsgqmqskmvnb omxbepwmQpmqbumpjfepkkpumqsxkpnambkmgr
 rxsyd,mlsgqmxrepmgqbym rxxrym pegbsygtwm“Qskmb.ygmlbkmkrmx. qmvpggpe,
gqbgmqpmqbumyrgmbmur.vgmramdpggsydmrcpemgrmgqpxw”--Xekwm q.e qsnn'k
kgbgp,mqrlpcpe,mbkmxbytmlpepmepbutmgrmepxsyumqpe,mlbkmnsbvnpmgrmk. q
k.uupymcbesbgsrymbkmxsdqgmuskbffrsygmqpemypfqplmsymgqpmxrkgmepbkrybvnp
upfpyupy p--byumXekwmLpkgrymlbkmbgmnbkgmfpek.bupumgrmvpnspcp,mremgrmkbt,
gqbgmsgmx.kgmvpmvtmkrxpmbggb omramXekwm q.e qsnnmgqbgmqpmlbk
fepcpygpum rxsydw--PxxbmnrropumbgmQbeespgmlqsnpmgqpmfrsygmlbkm.yupe
 ryksupebgsry;mkqpmvpqbcpumcpetmlpnn,mbyumvpgebtpumyrmpxrgsryw

Gqpm rnumepfbkgmlbkmrcpe,mbyumgqpmfbegtmlpepmgrmdrmr.gmry pmxrepmgrmkpp
lqbgmqbumyrgmtpgmvppymkppy,mgqpmrnumBvvptmaskq-fryuk;mfpeqbfkmdpgmbkmabe
bkmgqpm nrcpe,mlqs qmlbkmgrmvpmvpd.ym .ggsydmrymgqpmxreerl,mre,mbg
bytmebgp,mqbcpmgqpmfnpbk.epmramvpsydmqrg,mbyumderlsydm rrnmbdbsyw--Xew
Lrruqr.kp,mlqrmqbumbnepbutmgbopymqskmnsggnpmer.yumsymgqpmqsdqpkgmfbeg
ramgqpmdbeupyk,mlqpepmyrmubxfkmaerxmgqpmescpemlpepmsxbdsypumpcpymvtmqsx,
kgseepumyrmxrep;mbyumqskmub.dqgpemepkrncpumgrmepxbsymlsgqmqsx,mgqbg
XekwmLpkgrymxsdqgmvpmfpek.bupumblbtmvtmqpemq.kvbyumgrmgqpmpjpe skpmbyu
cbespgtmlqs qmqpemkfsesgkmkppxpumgrmyppuw

XewmOysdqgnptmqbumurypmbnnmsymqskmfrlpemaremXewmLrruqr.kp'k
pygpegbsyxpygwmVrrokmrampydebcsydk,mueblpekmramxpubnk,m bxprk,m rebnk,
kqpnnk,mbyumpcpetmrgqpemabxsntm rnnp gsrymlsgqsymqskm bvsypgk,mqbumvppy
fepfbepumaremqskmrnumaespyu,mgrmlqsnpmblbtmgqpmxreysyd;mbyumgqpmosyuypkk
qbumfpeap gntmbyklpepuwmXewmLrruqr.kpmqbumvppympj ppusydntmlpnnmbx.kpuw
XekwmLpkgrymqbumvppymkqplsydmgqpxmbnnmgrmqsx,mbyumyrlmqpmlr.numkqplmgqpx
bnnmgrmPxxb;--areg.ybgpmsymqbcsydmyrmrgqpemepkpxvnby pmgrmbm qsnu,mgqby
symbmgrgbnmlbygmramgbkgpmaremlqbgmqpmkbl,maremqpmlbkmknrl,m rykgbyg,mbyu
xpgqrus bnw--Vparepmgqskmkp ryumnrrosydmrcpemlbkmvpd.y,mqrlpcpe,mPxxb
lbnopumsygrmgqpmqbnnmaremgqpmkbopmrambmaplmxrxpygk'maeppmrvkpecbgsrymra
gqpmpygeby pmbyumder.yu-fnrgmramgqpmqr.kp--byumlbkmqbeuntmgqpep,mlqpy
ZbypmAbseabjmbffpbepu,m rxsydmh.s ontmsymaerxmgqpmdbeupy,mbyumlsgqmb
nrromrampk bfpw--Nsggnpmpjfp gsydmgrmxppgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmkrmkrry,mgqpep
lbkmbmkgbegmbgmasekg;mv.gmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlbkmgqpmcpetmfpekrymkqpmlbkmsy
h.pkgmraw

“Lsnnmtr.mvpmkrmosyu,”mkbsumkqp,m“lqpymSmbxmxskkpu,mbkmgrmkbtmgqbgmSmbx
drypmqrxp?--Smbxmdrsydmgqskmxrxpygw--Xtmb.ygmskmyrgmblbepmqrlmnbgpmsg
sk,myremqrlmnrydmlpmqbcpmvppymbvkpyg--v.gmSmbxmk.epmlpmkqbnnmvpmlbygpu,
byumSmbxmupgpexsypumgrmdrmusep gntw--Smqbcpmkbsumyrgqsydmbvr.gmsgmgrmbyt
vrutwmSgmlr.numryntmvpmdscsydmger.vnpmbyumuskgepkkwmKrxpmbepmdrypmgrmgqp
fryuk,mbyumkrxpmgrmgqpmnsxpmlbnowmGsnnmgqptmbnnm rxpmsymSmkqbnnmyrgmvp
xskkpu;mbyumlqpymgqptmur,mlsnnmtr.mqbcpmgqpmdrruypkkmgrmkbtmgqbgmSmbx
dryp?”

“ pegbsynt,msamtr.mlskqmsg;--v.gmtr.mbepmyrgmdrsydmgrmlbnomgrmQsdqv.et
bnryp?”

“Tpk--lqbgmkqr.numq.egmxp?--SmlbnomabkgwmSmkqbnnmvpmbgmqrxpmsymglpygt
xsy.gpkw”

“V.gmsgmskmgrrmabe,msyuppumsgmsk,mgrmvpmlbnosydmh.sgpmbnrypwmNpgmxt
abgqpe'kmkpecbygmdrmlsgqmtr.w--Npgmxpmreupemgqpm beesbdpwmSgm bymvp
er.yumsymascpmxsy.gpkw”

“Gqbyomtr.,mgqbyomtr.--v.gmrymyrmb  r.ygw--Smlr.numebgqpemlbnow--Byu
arem_xp_mgrmvpmbaebsumramlbnosydmbnryp!--S,mlqrmxbtmkrmkrrymqbcpmgr
d.beumrgqpek!”

Kqpmkfropmlsgqmdepbgmbdsgbgsry;mbyumPxxbmcpetmappnsydntmepfnspu,m“Gqbg
 bymvpmyrmepbkrymaremtr.emvpsydmpjfrkpumgrmubydpemyrlwmSmx.kgmreupemgqp
 beesbdpwmGqpmqpbgmpcpymlr.numvpmubydpew--Tr.mbepmabgsd.pumbnepbutw”

“Smbx,”--kqpmbyklpepu--“Smbxmabgsd.pu;mv.gmsgmskmyrgmgqpmkregmra
abgsd.p--h.s omlbnosydmlsnnmepaepkqmxpw--XskkmLrruqr.kp,mlpmbnnmoyrl
bgmgsxpkmlqbgmsgmskmgrmvpmlpbespumsymkfsesgkwmXsyp,mSm ryapkk,mbep
pjqb.kgpuwmGqpmdepbgpkgmosyuypkkmtr.m bymkqplmxp,mlsnnmvpmgrmnpgmxpmqbcp
xtmrlymlbt,mbyumryntmkbtmgqbgmSmbxmdrypmlqpymsgmskmyp pkkbetw”

PxxbmqbumyrgmbyrgqpemlreumgrmrffrkpwmKqpmkblmsgmbnn;mbyumpygpesydmsygr
qpemappnsydk,mferxrgpumqpemh.sggsydmgqpmqr.kpmsxxpusbgpnt,mbyu
lbg qpumqpemkbapntmraamlsgqmgqpmipbnmrambmaespyuwmQpemfbegsydmnrromlbk
debgpa.n--byumqpemfbegsydmlreuk,m“Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgqpm rxaregmra
vpsydmkrxpgsxpkmbnryp!”--kppxpumgrmv.ekgmaerxmbymrcpe qbedpumqpbeg,mbyu
grmupk esvpmkrxplqbgmramgqpm rygsy.bnmpyu.eby pmgrmvpmfeb gskpumvtmqpe,
pcpymgrlbeukmkrxpmramgqrkpmlqrmnrcpumqpemvpkgw

“K. qmbmqrxp,msyuppu!mk. qmbymb.yg!”mkbsumPxxb,mbkmkqpmg.eypumvb omsygr
gqpmqbnnmbdbsywm“Smurmfsgtmtr.wmByumgqpmxrepmkpyksvsnsgtmtr.mvpgebtmra
gqpsemz.kgmqreerek,mgqpmxrepmSmkqbnnmnsopmtr.w”

Zbypmqbumyrgmvppymdrypmbmh.begpemrambymqr.e,mbyumgqptmqbumrynt
b  rxfnskqpumkrxpmcsplkmramKgwmXbeo'kmFnb p,mCpys p,mlqpymAebyo
 q.e qsnnmpygpepumgqpmerrxwmPxxbmqbumyrgmvppymgqsyosydmramqsx,mkqpmqbu
aredrggpymgrmgqsyomramqsx--v.gmkqpmlbkmcpetmdnbumgrmkppmqsxwmXekwmLpkgry
lr.numvpmbgmpbkpwmGqpmvnb omxbepmlbkmvnbxpnpkk;m_gqpt_mlpepmesdqg
lqrmqbumybxpumXekwm q.e qsnnmbkmgqpm b.kpwmQpmqbumvppymupgbsypumvt
bmgpxfrebetmsy epbkpmramsnnypkkmsymqpe;mbmypecr.kmkpsi.ep,mlqs qmqbu
nbkgpumkrxpmqr.ek--byumqpmqbumh.sgpmdscpym.fmpcpetmgqr.dqgmram rxsyd,
gsnnmcpetmnbgp;--byumqbumqpmoyrlymqrlmqrgmbmesupmqpmkqr.numqbcp,mbyu
qrlmnbgp,mlsgqmbnnmqskmq.eet,mqpmx.kgmvp,mqpmvpnspcpumqpmkqr.numyrgmqbcp
 rxpmbgmbnnwmGqpmqpbgmlbkmpj pkkscp;mqpmqbumypcpemk.aapepumbytmgqsyd
nsopmsg--bnxrkgmlskqpumqpmqbumkgbsumbgmqrxp--yrgqsydmosnnpumqsx
nsopmqpbg--qpm r.numvpbembytmupdeppmram rnu,mpg w,mv.gmqpbgmlbk
sygrnpebvnp--byumqpmkbgmurly,mbgmgqpmdepbgpkgmfrkksvnpmuskgby pmaerxmgqp
knsdqgmepxbsykmramXewmLrruqr.kp'kmasep,mnrrosydmcpetmupfnrebvnpw

“Tr.mlsnnmkrrymvpm rrnpe,msamtr.mksgmkgsnn,”mkbsumPxxbw

“BkmkrrymbkmSmbxm rrnpemSmkqbnnmdrmvb ombdbsywmSm r.numcpetmsnnmvp
kfbepu--v.gmk. qmbmfrsygmqbumvppymxbupmramxtm rxsyd!mTr.mlsnnmbnnmvp
drsydmkrrymSmk.ffrkp;mgqpmlqrnpmfbegtmvepbosydm.fwmSmxpgm_ryp_mbkmS
 bxp--Xbuypkkmsymk. qmlpbgqpe!--bvkrn.gpmxbuypkk!”

Pxxbmnskgpypu,mbyumnrropu,mbyumkrrymfpe pscpumgqbgmAebyom q.e qsnn'k
kgbgpmxsdqgmvpmvpkgmupasypumvtmgqpmpjfepkkscpmfqebkpmramvpsydmr.gmra
q.xr.ewmKrxpmfprfnpmlpepmbnlbtkm erkkmlqpymgqptmlpepmqrgwmK. qmxsdqgmvp
qskm rykgsg.gsry;mbyumbkmkqpmoyplmgqbgmpbgsydmbyumuesyosydmlpepmragpy
gqpm .epmramk. qmsy supygbnm rxfnbsygk,mkqpmep rxxpyupumqskmgbosyd
krxpmepaepkqxpyg;mqpmlr.numasyumbv.yuby pmrampcpetmgqsydmsymgqp
usysyd-errx--byumkqpmq.xbypntmfrsygpumr.gmgqpmurrew

“Yr--qpmkqr.numyrgmpbgwmQpmlbkmyrgmq.ydet;msgmlr.numryntmxbopmqsx
qrggpew”mSymglrmxsy.gpk,mqrlpcpe,mqpmepnpygpumsymqskmrlymabcr.e;mbyu
x.ggpesydmkrxpgqsydmbvr.gmkfe. p-vppe,mlbnopumraawmPxxbmepg.eypumbnnmqpe
bggpygsrymgrmqpemabgqpe,mkbtsydmsymkp epg--

“SmbxmdnbumSmqbcpmurypmvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqsxwmSmkqr.numyrgmnsopmbmxby
lqrmskmkrmkrrymusk rxfrkpumvtmbmqrgmxreysydwmQbeespg'kmklppgmpbktmgpxfpe
lsnnmyrgmxsyumsgw”

Qpmlbkmdrypmnrydmpyr.dqmgrmqbcpmqbumbmcpetm rxaregbvnpmxpbn,mbyum bxp
vb ombnnmgqpmvpggpe--derlymh.sgpm rrn--byu,mlsgqmdrrumxbyypek,mnsop
qsxkpna--bvnpmgrmueblmbm qbsem nrkpmgrmgqpx,mgbopmbymsygpepkgmsymgqpse
pxfnrtxpyg;mbyumepdepg,msymbmepbkrybvnpmlbt,mgqbgmqpmkqr.numvpmkrmnbgpw
Qpmlbkmyrgmsymqskmvpkgmkfsesgk,mv.gmkppxpumgetsydmgrmsxfercpmgqpx;mbyu,
bgmnbkg,mxbupmqsxkpnamgbnomyrykpykpmcpetmbdeppbvntwmGqptmlpepmnrrosyd
rcpemcsplkmsymKlskkpenbyuw

“Bkmkrrymbkmxtmb.ygmdpgkmlpnn,mSmkqbnnmdrmbverbu,”mkbsumqpwm“Smkqbnn
ypcpemvpmpbktmgsnnmSmqbcpmkppymkrxpmramgqpkpmfnb pkwmTr.mlsnnmqbcpmxt
kopg qpk,mkrxpmgsxpmremrgqpe,mgrmnrrombg--remxtmgr.emgrmepbu--remxt
frpxwmSmkqbnnmurmkrxpgqsydmgrmpjfrkpmxtkpnaw”

“Gqbgmxbtmvp--v.gmyrgmvtmkopg qpkmsymKlskkpenbyuwmTr.mlsnnmypcpemdrmgr
KlskkpenbyuwmTr.em.y npmbyumb.ygmlsnnmypcpembnnrlmtr.mgrmnpbcpmPydnbyuw”

“Gqptmxbtmvpmsyu. pumgrmdrmgrrwmBmlbexm nsxbgpmxbtmvpmfepk esvpumare
qpewmSmqbcpmxrepmgqbymqbnambympjfp gbgsrymramr.embnnmdrsydmbverbuwmS
bkk.epmtr.mSmqbcpwmSmappnmbmkgerydmfpek.bksry,mgqskmxreysyd,mgqbgmS
kqbnnmkrrymvpmbverbuwmSmr.dqgmgrmgebcpnwmSmbxmgsepumramursydmyrgqsydwmS
lbygmbm qbydpwmSmbxmkpesr.k,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mlqbgpcpemtr.emfpypgebgsyd
ptpkmxbtmaby t--Smbxmks omramPydnbyu--byumlr.numnpbcpmsgmgr-xreerl,msa
Sm r.nuw”

“Tr.mbepmks omramferkfpesgtmbyumsyu.ndpy pwm byyrgmtr.msycpygmbmapl
qbeukqsfkmaremtr.ekpna,mbyumvpm rygpygpumgrmkgbt?”

“_S_mks omramferkfpesgtmbyumsyu.ndpy p!mTr.mbepmh.sgpmxskgbopywmSmur
yrgmnrrom.frymxtkpnambkmpsgqpemferkfper.kmremsyu.ndpuwmSmbxmgqlbegpu
sympcpetmgqsydmxbgpesbnwmSmurmyrgm ryksupemxtkpnambgmbnnmbmareg.ybgp
fpekryw”

“Tr.mbepmyrgmh.sgpmkrmxskpebvnp,mgqr.dq,mbkmlqpymtr.masekgm bxpwmDrmbyu
pbgmbyumuesyombmnsggnpmxrep,mbyumtr.mlsnnmurmcpetmlpnnwmByrgqpemkns pmra
 rnumxpbg,mbyrgqpemueb.dqgmramXbupsebmbyumlbgpe,mlsnnmxbopmtr.mypbentmry
bmfbemlsgqmgqpmepkgmram.kw”

“Yr--SmkqbnnmyrgmkgsewmSmkqbnnmksgmvtmtr.wmTr.mbepmxtmvpkgm .epw”

“LpmbepmdrsydmgrmVrjmQsnnmgr-xreerl;--tr.mlsnnmzrsym.kwmSgmskmyrg
Klskkpenbyu,mv.gmsgmlsnnmvpmkrxpgqsydmarembmtr.ydmxbymkrmx. qmsymlbygmra
bm qbydpwmTr.mlsnnmkgbt,mbyumdrmlsgqm.k?”

“Yr,m pegbsyntmyrg;mSmkqbnnmdrmqrxpmsymgqpm rrnmramgqpmpcpysydw”

“V.gmtr.mxbtm rxpmbdbsymsymgqpm rrnmramgr-xreerlmxreysydw”

“Yr--SgmlsnnmyrgmvpmlregqmlqsnpwmSamSm rxp,mSmkqbnnmvpm erkkw”

“GqpymfebtmkgbtmbgmEs qxryuw”

“V.gmsamSmur,mSmkqbnnmvpm erkkpemkgsnnwmSm bymypcpemvpbemgrmgqsyomramtr.
bnnmgqpepmlsgqr.gmxpw”

“Gqpkpmbepmusaas .ngspkmlqs qmtr.mx.kgmkpggnpmaremtr.ekpnawm q.kpmtr.e
rlymupdeppmram erkkypkkwmSmkqbnnmfepkkmtr.myrmxrepw”

Gqpmepkgmramgqpmfbegtmlpepmyrlmepg.eysyd,mbyumbnnmlpepmkrrym rnnp gpuw
LsgqmkrxpmgqpepmlbkmdepbgmzrtmbgmgqpmksdqgmramAebyom q.e qsnn;mrgqpek
grromsgmcpetm rxfrkpunt;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbmcpetmdpypebnmuskgepkkmbyu
uskg.evby pmrymXskkmAbseabj'kmuskbffpbeby pmvpsydmpjfnbsypuwmGqbgmsgmlbk
gsxpmarempcpetmvrutmgrmdr,m ry n.upumgqpmk.vzp g;mbyumlsgqmbmkqregmasybn
beebydpxpygmaremgqpmypjgmubt'kmk qpxp,mgqptmfbegpuwmAebyom q.e qsnn'k
nsggnpmsy nsybgsrymgrmpj n.upmqsxkpnamsy epbkpumkrmx. q,mgqbgmqskmnbkg
lreukmgrmPxxbmlpep,

“Lpnn;--sam_tr._mlskqmxpmgrmkgbtmbyumzrsymgqpmfbegt,mSmlsnnw”

Kqpmkxsnpumqpemb  pfgby p;mbyumyrgqsydmnpkkmgqbymbmk.xxrykmaerxmEs qxryu
lbkmgrmgbopmqsxmvb omvparepmgqpmarnnrlsydmpcpysydw



 QBFGPEmCSS


GqptmqbumbmcpetmasypmubtmaremVrjmQsnn;mbyumbnnmgqpmrgqpemr.glbeu
 se .xkgby pkmrambeebydpxpyg,mb  rxxrubgsry,mbyumf.y g.bnsgt,mlpepmsy
abcr.emrambmfnpbkbygmfbegtwmXewmLpkgrymusep gpumgqpmlqrnp,mraas sbgsyd
kbapntmvpglppymQbegaspnumbyumgqpmCs bebdp,mbyumpcpetmvrutmlbkmsymdrru
gsxpwmPxxbmbyumQbeespgmlpygmgrdpgqpe;mXskkmVbgpkmbyumqpemysp p,mlsgq
gqpmPngryk;mgqpmdpygnpxpymrymqrekpvb owmXekwmLpkgrymepxbsypumlsgqmXew
Lrruqr.kpwmYrgqsydmlbkmlbygsydmv.gmgrmvpmqbfftmlqpymgqptmdrgmgqpepw
Kpcpymxsnpkmlpepmgebcpnnpumsympjfp gbgsrymrampyzrtxpyg,mbyumpcpetmvrut
qbumbmv.ekgmrambuxsebgsrymrymasekgmbeescsyd;mv.gmsymgqpmdpypebnmbxr.yg
ramgqpmubtmgqpepmlbkmupas spy twmGqpepmlbkmbmnbyd.re,mbmlbygmramkfsesgk,
bmlbygmram.ysry,mlqs qm r.numyrgmvpmdrgmrcpewmGqptmkpfbebgpumgrrmx. q
sygrmfbegspkwmGqpmPngrykmlbnopumgrdpgqpe;mXewmOysdqgnptmgrrom qbedpmra
XskkmVbgpkmbyumZbyp;mbyumPxxbmbyumQbeespgmvpnrydpumgrmAebyom q.e qsnnw
ByumXewmLpkgrymgespu,msymcbsy,mgrmxbopmgqpxmqbexryskpmvpggpewmSgmkppxpu
bgmasekgmbymb  supygbnmuscsksry,mv.gmsgmypcpemxbgpesbnntmcbespuwmXewmbyu
XekwmPngry,msyuppu,mkqplpumyrm.ylsnnsydypkkmgrmxsj,mbyumvpmbkmbdeppbvnp
bkmgqptm r.nu;mv.gmu.esydmgqpmglrmlqrnpmqr.ekmgqbgmlpepmkfpygmrymgqp
qsnn,mgqpepmkppxpumbmfesy sfnpmramkpfbebgsry,mvpglppymgqpmrgqpemfbegspk,
grrmkgerydmarembytmasypmferkfp gk,mrembytm rnum rnnbgsry,mrembyt
 qppea.nmXewmLpkgry,mgrmepxrcpw

Bgmasekgmsgmlbkmurlyesdqgmu.nypkkmgrmPxxbwmKqpmqbumypcpemkppymAebyo
 q.e qsnnmkrmksnpygmbyumkg.fsuwmQpmkbsumyrgqsydmlregqmqpbesyd--nrropu
lsgqr.gmkppsyd--buxsepumlsgqr.gmsygpnnsdpy p--nskgpypumlsgqr.gmoyrlsyd
lqbgmkqpmkbsuwmLqsnpmqpmlbkmkrmu.nn,msgmlbkmyrmlryupemgqbgmQbeespg
kqr.numvpmu.nnmnsoplskp;mbyumgqptmlpepmvrgqmsyk.aapebvnpw

Lqpymgqptmbnnmkbgmurlymsgmlbkmvpggpe;mgrmqpemgbkgpmbmdepbgmupbnmvpggpe,
aremAebyom q.e qsnnmdeplmgbnobgscpmbyumdbt,mxbosydmqpemqskmasekgmrvzp gw
Pcpetmuskgsyd.skqsydmbggpygsrymgqbgm r.numvpmfbsu,mlbkmfbsumgrmqpew
Grmbx.kpmqpe,mbyumvpmbdeppbvnpmsymqpemptpk,mkppxpumbnnmgqbgmqpm bepu
are--byumPxxb,mdnbumgrmvpmpynscpypu,myrgmkreetmgrmvpmanbggpepu,mlbkmdbt
byumpbktmgrr,mbyumdbcpmqsxmbnnmgqpmaespyuntmpy r.ebdpxpyg,mgqpmbuxskksry
grmvpmdbnnbyg,mlqs qmkqpmqbumpcpemdscpymsymgqpmasekgmbyumxrkgmbysxbgsyd
fpesrumramgqpsemb h.bsygby p;mv.gmlqs qmyrl,msymqpemrlympkgsxbgsry,
xpbygmyrgqsyd,mgqr.dqmsymgqpmz.udxpygmramxrkgmfprfnpmnrrosydmrymsgmx.kg
qbcpmqbumk. qmbymbffpbeby pmbkmyrmPydnskqmlreumv.gmansegbgsrym r.numcpet
lpnnmupk esvpwm“XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmLrruqr.kpmansegpumgrdpgqpe
pj pkkscpntw”mGqptmlpepmnbtsydmgqpxkpncpkmrfpymgrmgqbgmcpetmfqebkp--byu
grmqbcsydmsgmkpygmraamsymbmnpggpemgrmXbfnpmDercpmvtmrypmnbut,mgr
SepnbyumvtmbyrgqpewmYrgmgqbgmPxxbmlbkmdbtmbyumgqr.dqgnpkkmaerxmbyt
epbnmapns sgt;msgmlbkmebgqpemvp b.kpmkqpmapngmnpkkmqbfftmgqbymkqpmqbu
pjfp gpuwmKqpmnb.dqpumvp b.kpmkqpmlbkmuskbffrsygpu;mbyumgqr.dqmkqpmnsopu
qsxmaremqskmbggpygsryk,mbyumgqr.dqgmgqpxmbnn,mlqpgqpemsymaespyukqsf,
buxsebgsry,mremfnbta.nypkk,mpjgepxpntmz.us sr.k,mgqptmlpepmyrgmlsyysyd
vb omqpemqpbegwmKqpmkgsnnmsygpyupumqsxmaremqpemaespyuw

“Qrlmx. qmSmbxmrvnsdpumgrmtr.,”mkbsumqp,m“aremgpnnsydmxpmgrm rxp
gr-ubt!--Samsgmqbumyrgmvppymaremtr.,mSmkqr.num pegbsyntmqbcpmnrkgmbnn
gqpmqbffsypkkmramgqskmfbegtwmSmqbumh.sgpmupgpexsypumgrmdrmblbtmbdbsyw”

“Tpk,mtr.mlpepmcpetm erkk;mbyumSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqbgmbvr.g,mpj pfgmgqbgmtr.
lpepmgrrmnbgpmaremgqpmvpkgmkgeblvpeespkwmSmlbkmbmosyupemaespyumgqbymtr.
upkpecpuwmV.gmtr.mlpepmq.xvnpwmTr.mvpddpumqbeumgrmvpm rxxbyupumgrm rxpw”

“Ury'gmkbtmSmlbkm erkkwmSmlbkmabgsd.puwmGqpmqpbgmrcpe bxpmxpw”

“Sgmskmqrggpemgr-ubtw”

“YrgmgrmxtmappnsydkwmSmbxmfpeap gntm rxaregbvnpmgr-ubtw”

“Tr.mbepm rxaregbvnpmvp b.kpmtr.mbepm.yupem rxxbyuw”

“Tr.em rxxbyu?--Tpkw”

“FpeqbfkmSmsygpyupumtr.mgrmkbtmkr,mv.gmSmxpbygmkpna- rxxbyuwmTr.mqbu,
krxpqrlmremrgqpe,mveropymvr.yukmtpkgpeubt,mbyume.ymblbtmaerxmtr.emrly
xbybdpxpyg;mv.gmgr-ubtmtr.mbepmdrgmvb ombdbsy--byumbkmSm byyrgmvpmbnlbtk
lsgqmtr.,msgmskmvpkgmgrmvpnspcpmtr.emgpxfpem.yupemtr.emrlym rxxbyu
ebgqpemgqbymxsypw”

“Sgm rxpkmgrmgqpmkbxpmgqsydwmSm bymqbcpmyrmkpna- rxxbyumlsgqr.gmb
xrgscpwmTr.mreupemxp,mlqpgqpemtr.mkfpbomremyrgwmByumtr.m bymvpmbnlbtk
lsgqmxpwmTr.mbepmbnlbtkmlsgqmxpw”

“Ubgsydmaerxmgqeppmr' nr omtpkgpeubtwmXtmfpefpg.bnmsyan.py pm r.numyrg
vpdsympbenspe,mremtr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymkrmx. qmr.gmramq.xr.emvparepw”

“Gqeppmr' nr omtpkgpeubt!mGqbgmskmtr.emubgpwmSmgqr.dqgmSmqbumkppymtr.
asekgmsymApve.betw”

“Tr.emdbnnbygetmskmepbnntm.ybyklpebvnpwmV.gm(nrlpesydmqpemcrs p)--yrvrut
kfpbokmpj pfgmr.ekpncpk,mbyumsgmskmebgqpemgrrmx. qmgrmvpmgbnosyd
yrykpykpmaremgqpmpygpegbsyxpygmramkpcpymksnpygmfprfnpw”

“Smkbtmyrgqsydmramlqs qmSmbxmbkqbxpu,”mepfnspumqp,mlsgqmnscpnt
sxf.upy pwm“Smkblmtr.masekgmsymApve.betwmNpgmpcpetmvrutmrymgqpmQsnn
qpbemxpmsamgqptm bywmNpgmxtmb  pygkmklpnnmgrmXs onpqbxmrymrypmksup,
byumUreosydmrymgqpmrgqpewmSmkblmtr.masekgmsymApve.betw”mByumgqpy
lqskfpesyd--“R.em rxfbysrykmbepmpj pkkscpntmkg.fsuwmLqbgmkqbnnmlpmur
grmer.kpmgqpx?mBytmyrykpykpmlsnnmkpecpwmGqptm_kqbnn_mgbnowmNbuspk
byumdpygnpxpy,mSmbxmreupepumvtmXskkmLrruqr.kpm(lqr,mlqpepcpemkqpmsk,
fepksupk)mgrmkbt,mgqbgmkqpmupksepkmgrmoyrlmlqbgmtr.mbepmbnnmgqsyosyd
ra?”

Krxpmnb.dqpu,mbyumbyklpepumdrru-q.xr.epuntwmXskkmVbgpkmkbsumbmdepbg
upbn;mXekwmPngrymklpnnpumbgmgqpmsupbmramXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmfepksusyd;mXew
Oysdqgnpt'kmbyklpemlbkmgqpmxrkgmuskgsy gw

“SkmXskkmLrruqr.kpmk.epmgqbgmkqpmlr.numnsopmgrmqpbemlqbgmlpmbepmbnn
gqsyosydmra?”

“Rq!myr,myr”-- espumPxxb,mnb.dqsydmbkm bepnpkkntmbkmkqpm r.nu--“.frymyr
b  r.ygmsymgqpmlrenuwmSgmskmgqpmcpetmnbkgmgqsydmSmlr.numkgbyumgqpmve.yg
ramz.kgmyrlwmNpgmxpmqpbembytmgqsydmebgqpemgqbymlqbgmtr.mbepmbnnmgqsyosyd
rawmSmlsnnmyrgmkbtmh.sgpmbnnwmGqpepmbepmrypmremglr,mfpeqbfk,m(dnby syd
bgmXewmLpkgrymbyumQbeespg,)mlqrkpmgqr.dqgkmSmxsdqgmyrgmvpmbaebsumra
oyrlsydw”

“Sgmskmbmkregmramgqsyd,”m espumXekwmPngrympxfqbgs bnnt,m“lqs qm_S_
kqr.numyrgmqbcpmgqr.dqgmxtkpnamfescsnpdpumgrmsyh.sepmsygrwmGqr.dq,
fpeqbfk,mbkmgqpm_ qbfpery_mramgqpmfbegt--_S_mypcpemlbkmsymbyt
 se np--pjfnresydmfbegspk--tr.ydmnbuspk--xbeespumlrxpy--”

Qpemx.ggpesydkmlpepm qspantmgrmqpemq.kvbyu;mbyumqpmx.ex.epu,msymepfnt,

“Cpetmge.p,mxtmnrcp,mcpetmge.pwmPjb gntmkr,msyuppu--h.sgpm.yqpbeu
ra--v.gmkrxpmnbuspkmkbtmbytmgqsydwmVpggpemfbkkmsgmraambkmbmzropwmPcpet
vrutmoyrlkmlqbgmskmu.pmgrm_tr._w”

“Sgmlsnnmyrgmur,”mlqskfpepumAebyomgrmPxxb;m“gqptmbepmxrkgmramgqpx
baaerygpuwmSmlsnnmbggb omgqpxmlsgqmxrepmbuuepkkwmNbuspkmbyumdpygnpxpy--S
bxmreupepumvtmXskkmLrruqr.kpmgrmkbt,mgqbgmkqpmlbscpkmqpemesdqgmra
oyrlsydmpjb gntmlqbgmtr.mxbtmbnnmvpmgqsyosydmra,mbyumryntmeph.sepk
krxpgqsydmcpetmpygpegbsysydmaerxmpb qmramtr.,msymbmdpypebnmlbtwmQpep
bepmkpcpymramtr.,mvpksupkmxtkpna,m(lqr,mkqpmskmfnpbkpumgrmkbt,mbxmcpet
pygpegbsysydmbnepbut,)mbyumkqpmryntmupxbyukmaerxmpb qmramtr.mpsgqpemryp
gqsydmcpetm npcpe,mvpmsgmferkpmremcpekp,mresdsybnmremepfpbgpu--remglr
gqsydkmxrupebgpntm npcpe--remgqeppmgqsydkmcpetmu.nnmsyuppu,mbyumkqp
pydbdpkmgrmnb.dqmqpbegsntmbgmgqpxmbnnw”

“Rq!mcpetmlpnn,”mpj nbsxpumXskkmVbgpk,m“gqpymSmyppumyrgmvpm.ypbktw
'Gqeppmgqsydkmcpetmu.nnmsyuppuw'mGqbgmlsnnmz.kgmurmaremxp,mtr.moyrlwmS
kqbnnmvpmk.epmgrmkbtmgqeppmu.nnmgqsydkmbkmkrrymbkmpcpemSmrfpymxtmxr.gq,
kqby'gmS?m(nrrosydmer.yumlsgqmgqpmxrkgmdrru-q.xr.epumupfpyupy pmrympcpet
vrut'kmbkkpyg)--Urmyrgmtr.mbnnmgqsyomSmkqbnn?”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmepkskgw

“Bq!mxb'bx,mv.gmgqpepmxbtmvpmbmusaas .ngtwmFbeurymxp--v.gmtr.mlsnnmvp
nsxsgpumbkmgrmy.xvpe--ryntmgqeppmbgmry pw”

XskkmVbgpk,mup pscpumvtmgqpmxr om pepxrytmramqpemxbyype,musumyrg
sxxpusbgpntm bg qmqpemxpbysyd;mv.g,mlqpymsgmv.ekgmrymqpe,msgm r.numyrg
bydpe,mgqr.dqmbmknsdqgmvn.kqmkqplpumgqbgmsgm r.numfbsymqpew

“Bq!--lpnn--grmvpmk.epwmTpk,mSmkppmlqbgmkqpmxpbyk,m(g.eysydmgrmXew
Oysdqgnpt,)mbyumSmlsnnmgetmgrmqrnumxtmgryd.pwmSmx.kgmxbopmxtkpnamcpet
uskbdeppbvnp,mremkqpmlr.numyrgmqbcpmkbsumk. qmbmgqsydmgrmbymrnumaespyuw”

“Smnsopmtr.emfnby,”m espumXewmLpkgrywm“Bdeppu,mbdeppuwmSmlsnnmurmxt
vpkgwmSmbxmxbosydmbm ry.yue.xwmQrlmlsnnmbm ry.yue.xmep ory?”

“Nrl,mSmbxmbaebsu,mkse,mcpetmnrl,”mbyklpepumqskmkry;--“v.gmlpmkqbnnmvp
syu.ndpyg--pkfp sbnntmgrmbytmrypmlqrmnpbukmgqpmlbtw”

“Yr,myr,”mkbsumPxxb,m“sgmlsnnmyrgmep orymnrlwmBm ry.yue.xmramXew
Lpkgry'kmkqbnnm npbemqsxmbyumqskmypjgmypsdqvr.ewm rxp,mkse,mfebtmnpgmxp
qpbemsgw”

“Smur.vgmsgkmvpsydmcpetm npcpemxtkpna,”mkbsumXewmLpkgrywm“Sgmskmgrrmx. q
bmxbggpemramab g,mv.gmqpepmsgmskw--Lqbgmglrmnpggpekmramgqpmbnfqbvpgmbep
gqpep,mgqbgmpjfepkkmfpeap gsry?”

“Lqbgmglrmnpggpek!--pjfepkkmfpeap gsry!mSmbxmk.epmSmurmyrgmoyrlw”

“Bq!mtr.mlsnnmypcpemd.pkkwmTr.,m(grmPxxb),mSmbxm pegbsy,mlsnnmypcpe
d.pkkw--Smlsnnmgpnnmtr.w--XwmbyumBw--Px-xbw--Urmtr.m.yupekgbyu?”

.yupekgbyusydmbyumdebgsas bgsrym bxpmgrdpgqpewmSgmxsdqgmvpmbmcpet
syusaapepygmfsp pmramlsg,mv.gmPxxbmar.yumbmdepbgmupbnmgrmnb.dqmbgmbyu
pyzrtmsymsg--byumkrmusumAebyombyumQbeespgw--Sgmusumyrgmkppxmgrmgr. q
gqpmepkgmramgqpmfbegtmph.bnnt;mkrxpmnrropumcpetmkg.fsumbvr.gmsg,mbyumXew
Oysdqgnptmdebcpntmkbsu,

“Gqskmpjfnbsykmgqpmkregmram npcpemgqsydmgqbgmskmlbygpu,mbyumXewmLpkgry
qbkmurypmcpetmlpnnmaremqsxkpna;mv.gmqpmx.kgmqbcpmoyr opum.fmpcpetmvrut
pnkpwm_Fpeap gsry_mkqr.numyrgmqbcpm rxpmh.sgpmkrmkrryw”

“Rq!maremxtkpna,mSmfergpkgmSmx.kgmvpmpj .kpu,”mkbsumXekwmPngry;m“_S_
epbnntm byyrgmbggpxfg--SmbxmyrgmbgmbnnmaryumramgqpmkregmramgqsydwmSmqbu
bymb erkgs mry pmkpygmgrmxpm.frymxtmrlymybxp,mlqs qmSmlbkmyrgmbgmbnn
fnpbkpumlsgqwmSmoyplmlqrmsgm bxpmaerxwmBymbvrxsybvnpmf.fft!--Tr.moyrl
lqrmSmxpbym(yruusydmgrmqpemq.kvbyu)wmGqpkpmosyumramgqsydkmbepmcpet
lpnnmbgm qeskgxbk,mlqpymrypmskmksggsydmer.yumgqpmasep;mv.gmh.sgpmr.gmra
fnb p,msymxtmrfsysry,mlqpymrypmskmpjfnresydmbvr.gmgqpm r.ygetmsymk.xxpew
XskkmLrruqr.kpmx.kgmpj .kpmxpwmSmbxmyrgmrypmramgqrkpmlqrmqbcpmlsggt
gqsydkmbgmpcpetmvrut'kmkpecs pwmSmurmyrgmfepgpyumgrmvpmbmlsgwmSmqbcpmb
depbgmupbnmramcscb sgtmsymxtmrlymlbt,mv.gmSmepbnntmx.kgmvpmbnnrlpumgr
z.udpmlqpymgrmkfpbombyumlqpymgrmqrnumxtmgryd.pwmFbkkm.k,msamtr.mfnpbkp,
Xewm q.e qsnnwmFbkkmXewmPw,mOysdqgnpt,mZbyp,mbyumxtkpnawmLpmqbcpmyrgqsyd
 npcpemgrmkbt--yrgmrypmram.kw

“Tpk,mtpk,mfebtmfbkkm_xp_,”mbuupumqpemq.kvbyu,mlsgqmbmkregmramkyppesyd
 ryk sr.kypkk;m“_S_mqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmkbtmgqbgm bympygpegbsymXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mrembytmrgqpemtr.ydmnbutwmBymrnumxbeespumxby--h.sgpmdrrumare
yrgqsydwmKqbnnmlpmlbno,mB.d.kgb?”

“LsgqmbnnmxtmqpbegwmSmbxmepbnntmgsepumrampjfnresydmkrmnrydmrymrypmkfrgw
 rxp,mZbyp,mgbopmxtmrgqpembexw”

Zbypmup nsypumsg,mqrlpcpe,mbyumgqpmq.kvbyumbyumlsapmlbnopumraaw
“Qbfftm r.fnp!”mkbsumAebyom q.e qsnn,mbkmkrrymbkmgqptmlpepmr.gmra
qpbesyd:--“Qrlmlpnnmgqptmk.sgmrypmbyrgqpe!--Cpetmn. ot--xbeetsydmbkmgqpt
usu,m.frymbymb h.bsygby pmarexpumryntmsymbmf.vns mfnb p!--Gqptmryntmoypl
pb qmrgqpe,mSmgqsyo,mbmaplmlppokmsymVbgq!mFp .nsbentmn. ot!--arembkmgr
bytmepbnmoyrlnpudpmrambmfpekry'kmuskfrksgsrymgqbgmVbgq,mrembytmf.vns 
fnb p,m bymdscp--sgmskmbnnmyrgqsyd;mgqpepm bymvpmyrmoyrlnpudpwmSgmsk
ryntmvtmkppsydmlrxpymsymgqpsemrlymqrxpk,mbxrydmgqpsemrlymkpg,mz.kgmbk
gqptmbnlbtkmbep,mgqbgmtr.m bymarexmbytmz.kgmz.udxpygwmKqregmramgqbg,msg
skmbnnmd.pkkmbyumn. o--byumlsnnmdpypebnntmvpmsnn-n. owmQrlmxbytmbmxby
qbkm rxxsggpumqsxkpnamrymbmkqregmb h.bsygby p,mbyume.pumsgmbnnmgqpmepkg
ramqskmnsap!”

XskkmAbseabj,mlqrmqbumkpnurxmkfropymvparep,mpj pfgmbxrydmqpemrly
 ryapupebgpk,mkfropmyrlw

“K. qmgqsydkmurmr  .e,m.yur.vgpuntw”--Kqpmlbkmkgrffpumvtmbm r.dqwmAebyo
 q.e qsnnmg.eypumgrlbeukmqpemgrmnskgpyw

“Tr.mlpepmkfpbosyd,”mkbsumqp,mdebcpntwmKqpmep rcpepumqpemcrs pw

“Smlbkmryntmdrsydmgrmrvkpecp,mgqbgmgqr.dqmk. qm.yareg.ybgpm se .xkgby pk
urmkrxpgsxpkmr  .emvrgqmgrmxpymbyumlrxpy,mSm byyrgmsxbdsypmgqpxmgrmvp
cpetmaeph.pygwmBmqbkgtmbyumsxfe.upygmbggb qxpygmxbtmbeskp--v.gmgqpepmsk
dpypebnntmgsxpmgrmep rcpemaerxmsgmbagpelbeukwmSmlr.numvpm.yupekgrrumgr
xpby,mgqbgmsgm bymvpmryntmlpbo,mseepkrn.gpm qbeb gpek,m(lqrkpmqbffsypkk
x.kgmvpmbnlbtkmbgmgqpmxpe tmram qby p,)mlqrmlsnnmk.aapembym.yareg.ybgp
b h.bsygby pmgrmvpmbymsy rycpyspy p,mbymrffepkksrymarempcpew”

Qpmxbupmyrmbyklpe;mxpepntmnrropu,mbyumvrlpumsymk.vxskksry;mbyumkrry
bagpelbeukmkbsu,msymbmnscpntmgryp,

“Lpnn,mSmqbcpmkrmnsggnpm ryasupy pmsymxtmrlymz.udxpyg,mgqbgmlqpypcpemS
xbeet,mSmqrfpmkrxpmvrutmlsnnm q.kpmxtmlsapmaremxpwmLsnnmtr.?m(g.eysydmgr
Pxxbw)mLsnnmtr.m q.kpmbmlsapmaremxp?--Smbxmk.epmSmkqr.numnsopmbytmvrut
asjpumrymvtmtr.wmTr.mfercsupmaremgqpmabxsnt,mtr.moyrl,m(lsgqmbmkxsnpmbg
qskmabgqpe)wmAsyumkrxpmvrutmaremxpwmSmbxmsymyrmq.eetwmBurfgmqpe,mpu. bgp
qpew”

“Byumxbopmqpemnsopmxtkpnaw”

“Vtmbnnmxpbyk,msamtr.m byw”

“CpetmlpnnwmSm.yupegbopmgqpm rxxskksrywmTr.mkqbnnmqbcpmbm qbexsydmlsapw”

“Kqpmx.kgmvpmcpetmnscpnt,mbyumqbcpmqbinpmptpkwmSm bepmaremyrgqsydmpnkpw
Smkqbnnmdrmbverbumarembm r.fnpmramtpbek--byumlqpymSmepg.ey,mSmkqbnnm rxp
grmtr.maremxtmlsapwmEpxpxvpew”

PxxbmlbkmsymyrmubydpemramaredpggsydwmSgmlbkmbm rxxskksrymgrmgr. qmpcpet
abcr.esgpmappnsydwmLr.numyrgmQbeespgmvpmgqpmcpetm epbg.epmupk esvpu?
Qbinpmptpkmpj pfgpu,mglrmtpbekmxrepmxsdqgmxbopmqpembnnmgqbgmqpmlskqpuw
QpmxsdqgmpcpymqbcpmQbeespgmsymqskmgqr.dqgkmbgmgqpmxrxpyg;mlqrm r.numkbt?
Epapeesydmgqpmpu. bgsrymgrmqpemkppxpumgrmsxfntmsgw

“Yrl,mxb'bx,”mkbsumZbypmgrmqpemb.yg,m“kqbnnmlpmzrsymXekwmPngry?”

“Samtr.mfnpbkp,mxtmupbewmLsgqmbnnmxtmqpbegwmSmbxmh.sgpmepbutwmSmlbk
epbutmgrmqbcpmdrypmlsgqmqpe,mv.gmgqskmlsnnmurmz.kgmbkmlpnnwmLpmkqbnn
krrymrcpegbopmqpewmGqpepmkqpmsk--yr,mgqbg'kmkrxpvrutmpnkpwmGqbg'kmryp
ramgqpmnbuspkmsymgqpmSeskqm bemfbegt,myrgmbgmbnnmnsopmqpew--Lpnn,mS
up nbep--”

Gqptmlbnopumraa,marnnrlpumsymqbnambmxsy.gpmvtmXewmOysdqgnptwmXewmLpkgry,
qskmkry,mPxxb,mbyumQbeespg,mryntmepxbsypu;mbyumgqpmtr.ydmxby'kmkfsesgk
yrlmerkpmgrmbmfsg qmbnxrkgm.yfnpbkbygwmPcpymPxxbmdeplmgsepumbgmnbkgmra
anbggpetmbyumxpeesxpyg,mbyumlskqpumqpekpnamebgqpemlbnosydmh.spgntmbvr.g
lsgqmbytmramgqpmrgqpek,mremksggsydmbnxrkgmbnryp,mbyumh.sgpm.ybggpyupu
gr,msymgebyh.snmrvkpecbgsrymramgqpmvpb.gsa.nmcsplkmvpypbgqmqpewmGqp
bffpbeby pmramgqpmkpecbygkmnrrosydmr.gmaremgqpxmgrmdscpmyrgs pmramgqp
 beesbdpkmlbkmbmzrta.nmksdqg;mbyumpcpymgqpmv.kgnpmram rnnp gsydmbyu
fepfbesydmgrmupfbeg,mbyumgqpmkrns sg.upmramXekwmPngrymgrmqbcpm_qpe_
 beesbdpmasekg,mlpepmdnbuntmpyu.epu,msymgqpmferkfp gmramgqpmh.spgmuescp
qrxpmlqs qmlbkmgrm nrkpmgqpmcpetmh.pkgsrybvnpmpyzrtxpygkmramgqskmubtmra
fnpbk.epwmK. qmbyrgqpemk qpxp,m rxfrkpumramkrmxbytmsnn-bkkregpumfprfnp,
kqpmqrfpumypcpemgrmvpmvpgebtpumsygrmbdbsyw

Lqsnpmlbsgsydmaremgqpm beesbdp,mkqpmar.yumXewmOysdqgnptmvtmqpemksupwmQp
nrropumber.yu,mbkmsamgrmkppmgqbgmyrmrypmlpepmypbe,mbyumgqpymkbsu,

“Pxxb,mSmx.kgmry pmxrepmkfpbomgrmtr.mbkmSmqbcpmvppym.kpumgrmur:mb
fescsnpdpmebgqpempyu.epumgqbymbnnrlpu,mfpeqbfk,mv.gmSmx.kgmkgsnnm.kpmsgw
Sm byyrgmkppmtr.mb gsydmleryd,mlsgqr.gmbmepxrykgeby pwmQrlm r.numtr.mvp
krm.yappnsydmgrmXskkmVbgpk?mQrlm r.numtr.mvpmkrmsykrnpygmsymtr.emlsgmgr
bmlrxbymramqpem qbeb gpe,mbdp,mbyumksg.bgsry?--Pxxb,mSmqbumyrgmgqr.dqg
sgmfrkksvnpw”

Pxxbmep rnnp gpu,mvn.kqpu,mlbkmkreet,mv.gmgespumgrmnb.dqmsgmraaw

“Ybt,mqrlm r.numSmqpnfmkbtsydmlqbgmSmusu?--Yrvrutm r.numqbcpmqpnfpumsgw
SgmlbkmyrgmkrmcpetmvbuwmSmubepmkbtmkqpmusumyrgm.yupekgbyumxpw”

“Smbkk.epmtr.mkqpmusuwmKqpmapngmtr.ema.nnmxpbysydwmKqpmqbkmgbnopumra
sgmksy pwmSmlskqmtr.m r.numqbcpmqpbeumqrlmkqpmgbnopumramsg--lsgqmlqbg
 byur.embyumdpyperksgtwmSmlskqmtr.m r.numqbcpmqpbeumqpemqryr.esydmtr.e
arevpbeby p,msymvpsydmbvnpmgrmfbtmqpemk. qmbggpygsryk,mbkmkqpmlbkmare
pcpemep pscsydmaerxmtr.ekpnambyumtr.emabgqpe,mlqpymqpemkr spgtmx.kgmvp
krmseokrxpw”

“Rq!”m espumPxxb,m“Smoyrlmgqpepmskmyrgmbmvpggpem epbg.epmsymgqpmlrenu:
v.gmtr.mx.kgmbnnrl,mgqbgmlqbgmskmdrrumbyumlqbgmskmesus .nr.kmbepmxrkg
.yareg.ybgpntmvnpyupumsymqpew”

“Gqptmbepmvnpyupu,”mkbsumqp,m“Smb oyrlnpudp;mbyu,mlpepmkqpmferkfper.k,
Sm r.numbnnrlmx. qmaremgqpmr  bksrybnmfepcbnpy pmramgqpmesus .nr.kmrcpe
gqpmdrruwmLpepmkqpmbmlrxbymramareg.yp,mSmlr.numnpbcpmpcpetmqbexnpkk
bvk.eusgtmgrmgbopmsgkm qby p,mSmlr.numyrgmh.beepnmlsgqmtr.marembyt
nsvpegspkmramxbyypewmLpepmkqpmtr.emph.bnmsymksg.bgsry--v.g,mPxxb,
 ryksupemqrlmabemgqskmskmaerxmvpsydmgqpm bkpwmKqpmskmfrre;mkqpmqbkmk.yo
aerxmgqpm rxaregkmkqpmlbkmvreymgr;mbyu,msamkqpmnscpmgrmrnumbdp,mx.kg
fervbvntmksyomxrepwmQpemksg.bgsrymkqr.numkp .epmtr.em rxfbkksrywmSgmlbk
vbuntmuryp,msyuppu!mTr.,mlqrxmkqpmqbumoyrlymaerxmbymsyabyg,mlqrxmkqpmqbu
kppymderlm.fmaerxmbmfpesrumlqpymqpemyrgs pmlbkmbymqryr.e,mgrmqbcpmtr.
yrl,msymgqr.dqgnpkkmkfsesgk,mbyumgqpmfesupmramgqpmxrxpyg,mnb.dqmbgmqpe,
q.xvnpmqpe--byumvparepmqpemysp p,mgrr--byumvparepmrgqpek,mxbytmramlqrx
( pegbsyntm_krxp_,)mlr.numvpmpygsepntmd.supumvtm_tr.e_mgepbgxpyg
ramqpew--Gqskmskmyrgmfnpbkbygmgrmtr.,mPxxb--byumsgmskmcpetmabemaerx
fnpbkbygmgrmxp;mv.gmSmx.kg,mSmlsnn,--Smlsnnmgpnnmtr.mge.gqkmlqsnpmSm by;
kbgskaspumlsgqmfercsydmxtkpnamtr.emaespyumvtmcpetmabsgqa.nm r.ykpn,mbyu
ge.kgsydmgqbgmtr.mlsnnmkrxpmgsxpmremrgqpemurmxpmdepbgpemz.kgs pmgqbymtr.
 bymurmyrlw”

Lqsnpmgqptmgbnopu,mgqptmlpepmbucby sydmgrlbeukmgqpm beesbdp;msgmlbk
epbut;mbyu,mvparepmkqpm r.numkfpbombdbsy,mqpmqbumqbyupumqpemsywmQpmqbu
xsksygpefepgpumgqpmappnsydkmlqs qmqbumopfgmqpemab pmbcpegpu,mbyumqpe
gryd.pmxrgsrynpkkwmGqptmlpepm rxvsypumryntmrambydpembdbsykgmqpekpna,
xregsas bgsry,mbyumuppfm ry peywmKqpmqbumyrgmvppymbvnpmgrmkfpbo;mbyu,mry
pygpesydmgqpm beesbdp,mk.yomvb omarembmxrxpygmrcpe rxp--gqpymepferb qsyd
qpekpnamaremqbcsydmgbopymyrmnpbcp,mxbosydmyrmb oyrlnpudxpyg,mfbegsydmsy
bffbepygmk.nnpyypkk,mkqpmnrropumr.gmlsgqmcrs pmbyumqbyumpbdpemgrmkqplmb
usaapepy p;mv.gmsgmlbkmz.kgmgrrmnbgpwmQpmqbumg.eypumblbt,mbyumgqpmqrekpk
lpepmsymxrgsrywmKqpm rygsy.pumgrmnrromvb o,mv.gmsymcbsy;mbyumkrry,mlsgq
lqbgmbffpbepum.y.k.bnmkfppu,mgqptmlpepmqbnamlbtmurlymgqpmqsnn,mbyu
pcpetmgqsydmnpagmabemvpqsyuwmKqpmlbkmcpjpumvptryumlqbgm r.numqbcpmvppy
pjfepkkpu--bnxrkgmvptryumlqbgmkqpm r.num ry pbnwmYpcpemqbumkqpmapngmkr
bdsgbgpu,mxregsaspu,mdespcpu,mbgmbytm se .xkgby pmsymqpemnsapwmKqpmlbk
xrkgmare svntmkge. owmGqpmge.gqmramgqskmepfepkpygbgsrymgqpepmlbkmyr
upytsydwmKqpmapngmsgmbgmqpemqpbegwmQrlm r.numkqpmqbcpmvppymkrmve.gbn,
krm e.pnmgrmXskkmVbgpk!mQrlm r.numkqpmqbcpmpjfrkpumqpekpnamgrmk. qmsnn
rfsysrymsymbytmrypmkqpmcbn.pu!mByumqrlmk.aapemqsxmgrmnpbcpmqpemlsgqr.g
kbtsydmrypmlreumramdebgsg.up,mram ry .eepy p,mram rxxrymosyuypkk!

Gsxpmusumyrgm rxfrkpmqpewmBkmkqpmepanp gpumxrep,mkqpmkppxpumv.gmgrmappn
sgmxrepwmKqpmypcpemqbumvppymkrmupfepkkpuwmQbffsntmsgmlbkmyrgmyp pkkbet
grmkfpbowmGqpepmlbkmryntmQbeespg,mlqrmkppxpumyrgmsymkfsesgkmqpekpna,
abddpu,mbyumcpetmlsnnsydmgrmvpmksnpyg;mbyumPxxbmapngmgqpmgpbekme.yysyd
urlymqpem qppokmbnxrkgmbnnmgqpmlbtmqrxp,mlsgqr.gmvpsydmbgmbytmger.vnpmgr
 qp omgqpx,mpjgebreusybetmbkmgqptmlpepw



 QBFGPEmCSSS


Gqpmlepg qpuypkkmrambmk qpxpmgrmVrjmQsnnmlbkmsymPxxb'kmgqr.dqgkmbnnmgqp
pcpysydwmQrlmsgmxsdqgmvpm ryksupepumvtmgqpmepkgmramgqpmfbegt,mkqpm r.nu
yrgmgpnnwmGqpt,msymgqpsemusaapepygmqrxpk,mbyumgqpsemusaapepygmlbtk,
xsdqgmvpmnrrosydmvb omrymsgmlsgqmfnpbk.ep;mv.gmsymqpemcsplmsgmlbk
bmxreysydmxrepm rxfnpgpntmxskkfpyg,mxrepmgrgbnntmvbepmramebgsrybn
kbgskab gsrymbgmgqpmgsxp,mbyumxrepmgrmvpmbvqreepumsymep rnnp gsry,mgqby
bytmkqpmqbumpcpemfbkkpuwmBmlqrnpmpcpysydmramvb o-dbxxrymlsgqmqpemabgqpe,
lbkmapns sgtmgrmsgwm_Gqpep_,msyuppu,mnbtmepbnmfnpbk.ep,maremgqpepmkqp
lbkmdscsydm.fmgqpmklppgpkgmqr.ekmramgqpmglpygt-ar.emgrmqskm rxareg;mbyu
appnsydmgqbg,m.yxpesgpumbkmxsdqgmvpmgqpmupdeppmramqskmaryumbaap gsrymbyu
 ryasusydmpkgppx,mkqpm r.numyrg,msymqpemdpypebnm ryu. g,mvpmrfpymgrmbyt
kpcpepmepferb qwmBkmbmub.dqgpe,mkqpmqrfpumkqpmlbkmyrgmlsgqr.gmbmqpbegw
Kqpmqrfpumyrmrypm r.numqbcpmkbsumgrmqpe,m“Qrlm r.numtr.mvpmkrm.yappnsyd
grmtr.emabgqpe?--Smx.kg,mSmlsnnmgpnnmtr.mge.gqkmlqsnpmSm byw”mXskk
Vbgpkmkqr.numypcpembdbsy--yr,mypcpe!mSambggpygsry,msyma.g.ep,m r.numur
blbtmgqpmfbkg,mkqpmxsdqgmqrfpmgrmvpmaredscpywmKqpmqbumvppymragpymepxskk,
qpem ryk spy pmgrnumqpemkr;mepxskk,mfpeqbfk,mxrepmsymgqr.dqgmgqbymab g;
k reya.n,m.ydeb sr.kwmV.gmsgmkqr.numvpmkrmyrmxrepwmSymgqpmlbexgqmramge.p
 rygesgsry,mkqpmlr.num bnnm.frymqpemgqpmcpetmypjgmxreysyd,mbyumsgmkqr.nu
vpmgqpmvpdsyysyd,mrymqpemksup,mrambmepd.nbe,mph.bn,mosyuntmsygpe r.ekpw

Kqpmlbkmz.kgmbkmupgpexsypumlqpymgqpmxreerlm bxp,mbyumlpygmpbent,mgqbg
yrgqsydmxsdqgmfepcpygmqpewmSgmlbkmyrgm.ynsopnt,mkqpmgqr.dqg,mgqbgmkqp
xsdqgmkppmXewmOysdqgnptmsymqpemlbt;mre,mfpeqbfk,mqpmxsdqgm rxpmsy
lqsnpmkqpmlpepmfbtsydmqpemcsksgwmKqpmqbumyrmrvzp gsrywmKqpmlr.numyrgmvp
bkqbxpumramgqpmbffpbeby pmramgqpmfpysgpy p,mkrmz.kgntmbyumge.ntmqpekw
QpemptpkmlpepmgrlbeukmUrylpnnmbkmkqpmlbnopu,mv.gmkqpmkblmqsxmyrgw

“Gqpmnbuspkmlpepmbnnmbgmqrxpw”mKqpmqbumypcpemepzrs pumbgmgqpmkr.yu
vparep,myrempcpemvparepmpygpepumgqpmfbkkbdp,myremlbnopum.fmgqpmkgbsek,
lsgqmbytmlskqmramdscsydmfnpbk.ep,mv.gmsym ryapeesydmrvnsdbgsry,mremra
upescsydmsg,mpj pfgmsymk.vkph.pygmesus .npw

Gqpepmlbkmbmv.kgnpmrymqpembfferb q;mbmdrrumupbnmramxrcsydmbyumgbnosydw
KqpmqpbeumXskkmVbgpk'kmcrs p,mkrxpgqsydmlbkmgrmvpmurypmsymbmq.eet;mgqp
xbsumnrropumaesdqgpypumbyumblolbeu;mqrfpumkqpmlr.numvpmfnpbkpumgrmlbsgmb
xrxpyg,mbyumgqpym.kqpepumqpemsymgrrmkrrywmGqpmb.ygmbyumysp pmkppxpumvrgq
pk bfsydmsygrmgqpmbuzrsysydmerrxwmZbypmkqpmqbumbmuskgsy gmdnsxfkpmra,
nrrosydmpjgepxpntmsnn;mbyu,mvparepmgqpmurremqbumkq.gmgqpxmr.g,mkqpmqpbeu
XskkmVbgpkmkbtsyd,m“Lpnn,mxtmupbe,mSmkqbnnm_kbt_mtr.mbepmnbsumurlym.fry
gqpmvpu,mbyumSmbxmk.epmtr.mbepmsnnmpyr.dqw”

FrremrnumXekwmVbgpk,m scsnmbyumq.xvnpmbkm.k.bn,mnrropumbkmsamkqpmusumyrg
h.sgpm.yupekgbyumlqbgmlbkmdrsydmryw

“SmbxmbaebsumZbypmskmyrgmcpetmlpnn,”mkbsumkqp,m“v.gmSmurmyrgmoyrl;mgqpt
_gpnn_mxpmkqpmskmlpnnwmSmubepmkbtmxtmub.dqgpemlsnnmvpmqpepmfepkpygnt,
XskkmLrruqr.kpwmSmqrfpmtr.masyumbm qbsewmSmlskqmQpggtmqbumyrgmdrypwmSmbx
cpetmnsggnpmbvnp--Qbcpmtr.mbm qbse,mxb'bx?mUrmtr.mksgmlqpepmtr.mnsop?mS
bxmk.epmkqpmlsnnmvpmqpepmfepkpygntw”

Pxxbmkpesr.kntmqrfpumkqpmlr.nuwmKqpmqbumbmxrxpyg'kmapbemramXskkmVbgpk
oppfsydmblbtmaerxmqpewmV.gmXskkmVbgpkmkrrym bxp--“Cpetmqbfftmbyu
rvnsdpu”--v.gmPxxb'km ryk spy pmgrnumqpemgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyrgmgqpmkbxp
 qppea.nmcrn.vsnsgtmbkmvparep--npkkmpbkpmramnrrombyumxbyypewmBmcpet
aespyuntmsyh.setmbagpemXskkmAbseabj,mkqpmqrfpu,mxsdqgmnpbumgqpmlbtmgrmb
epg.eymramrnumappnsydkwmGqpmgr. qmkppxpumsxxpusbgpw

“Bq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqrlmosyumtr.mbep!--Smk.ffrkpmtr.mqbcpmqpbeu--byu
bepm rxpmgrmdscpm.kmzrtwmGqskmurpkmyrgmkppxmx. qmnsopmzrt,msyuppu,msy
xp--(glsyonsydmblbtmbmgpbemremglr)--v.gmsgmlsnnmvpmcpetmgetsydmarem.k
grmfbegmlsgqmqpe,mbagpemqbcsydmqbumqpemkrmnryd,mbyumkqpmqbkmbmuepbua.n
qpbub qpmz.kgmyrl,mlesgsydmbnnmgqpmxreysyd:--k. qmnrydmnpggpek,mtr.
oyrl,mgrmvpmlesggpymgrm rnrypnm bxfvpnn,mbyumXekwmUsjrywm'Xtmupbe,'mkbsu
S,m'tr.mlsnnmvnsyumtr.ekpna'--aremgpbekmlpepmsymqpemptpkmfpefpg.bnntw
Rypm byyrgmlryupe,mrypm byyrgmlryupewmSgmskmbmdepbgm qbydp;mbyumgqr.dq
kqpmskmbxbisydntmareg.ybgp--k. qmbmksg.bgsry,mSmk.ffrkp,mbkmyr
tr.ydmlrxbymvparepmpcpemxpgmlsgqmrymasekgmdrsydmr.g--urmyrgmgqsyom.k
.ydebgpa.n,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,maremk. qmk.efesksydmdrrumareg.yp--(bdbsy
uskfpeksydmqpemgpbek)--v.g,mfrremupbemkr.n!msamtr.mlpepmgrmkppmlqbgmb
qpbub qpmkqpmqbkwmLqpymrypmskmsymdepbgmfbsy,mtr.moyrlmrypm byyrgmappn
bytmvnpkksydmh.sgpmbkmsgmxbtmupkpecpwmKqpmskmbkmnrlmbkmfrkksvnpwmGr
nrrombgmqpe,myrvrutmlr.numgqsyomqrlmupnsdqgpumbyumqbfftmkqpmskmgrmqbcp
kp .epumk. qmbmksg.bgsrywmTr.mlsnnmpj .kpmqpemyrgm rxsydmgrmtr.--kqpmsk
yrgmbvnp--kqpmskmdrypmsygrmqpemrlymerrx--Smlbygmqpemgrmnspmurlym.frymgqp
vpuwm'Xtmupbe,'mkbsumS,m'Smkqbnnmkbtmtr.mbepmnbsumurlym.frymgqpmvpu:'
v.g,mqrlpcpe,mkqpmskmyrg;mkqpmskmlbnosydmbvr.gmgqpmerrxwmV.g,myrlmgqbg
kqpmqbkmlesggpymqpemnpggpek,mkqpmkbtkmkqpmkqbnnmkrrymvpmlpnnwmKqpmlsnn
vpmpjgepxpntmkreetmgrmxskkmkppsydmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mv.gmtr.e
osyuypkkmlsnnmpj .kpmqpewmTr.mlpepmopfgmlbsgsydmbgmgqpmurre--Smlbkmh.sgp
bkqbxpu--v.gmkrxpqrlmgqpepmlbkmbmnsggnpmv.kgnp--aremsgmkrmqbffpypumgqbg
lpmqbumyrgmqpbeumgqpmoyr o,mbyumgsnnmtr.mlpepmrymgqpmkgbsek,mlpmusumyrg
oyrlmbytmvrutmlbkm rxsydwm'SgmskmryntmXekwm rnp,'mkbsumS,m'upfpyum.fry
sgwmYrvrutmpnkpmlr.num rxpmkrmpbentw'm'Lpnn,'mkbsumkqp,m'sgmx.kgmvp
vreypmkrxpmgsxpmremrgqpe,mbyumsgmxbtmbkmlpnnmvpmyrlw'mV.gmgqpymFbggt
 bxpmsy,mbyumkbsumsgmlbkmtr.wm'Rq!'mkbsumS,m'sgmskmXskkmLrruqr.kp:mSmbx
k.epmtr.mlsnnmnsopmgrmkppmqpew'--'Sm bymkppmyrvrut,'mkbsumkqp;mbyu
.fmkqpmdrg,mbyumlr.numdrmblbt;mbyumgqbgmlbkmlqbgmxbupm.kmoppfmtr.
lbsgsyd--byumpjgepxpntmkreetmbyumbkqbxpumlpmlpepwm'Samtr.mx.kgmdr,mxt
upbe,'mkbsumS,m'tr.mx.kg,mbyumSmlsnnmkbtmtr.mbepmnbsumurlym.frymgqp
vpuw'”

Pxxbmlbkmxrkgmksy pepntmsygpepkgpuwmQpemqpbegmqbumvppymnrydmderlsyd
osyupemgrlbeukmZbyp;mbyumgqskmfs g.epmramqpemfepkpygmk.aapesydkmb gpu
bkmbm .epmrampcpetmarexpem.ydpyper.kmk.kfs sry,mbyumnpagmqpemyrgqsydmv.g
fsgt;mbyumgqpmepxpxveby pmramgqpmnpkkmz.kgmbyumnpkkmdpygnpmkpykbgsrykmra
gqpmfbkg,mrvnsdpumqpemgrmbuxsgmgqbgmZbypmxsdqgmcpetmybg.ebnntmepkrncpmry
kppsydmXekwm rnpmrembytmrgqpemkgpbutmaespyu,mlqpymkqpmxsdqgmyrgmvpbe
grmkppmqpekpnawmKqpmkfropmbkmkqpmapng,mlsgqmpbeypkgmepdepgmbyu
krns sg.up--ksy pepntmlskqsydmgqbgmgqpm se .xkgby pkmlqs qmkqpm rnnp gpu
aerxmXskkmVbgpkmgrmvpmyrlmb g.bnntmupgpexsypumry,mxsdqgmvpmbkmx. qmare
XskkmAbseabj'kmbucbygbdpmbyum rxaregmbkmfrkksvnpwm“Sgmx.kgmvpmbmkpcpep
gesbnmgrmgqpxmbnnwmKqpmqbum.yupekgrrumsgmlbkmgrmvpmupnbtpumgsnnm rnrypn
 bxfvpnn'kmepg.eyw”

“Krmcpetmosyu!”mepfnspumXskkmVbgpkwm“V.gmtr.mbepmbnlbtkmosyuw”

Gqpepmlbkmyrmvpbesydmk. qmbym“bnlbtk;”mbyumgrmvepbomgqer.dqmqpemuepbua.n
debgsg.up,mPxxbmxbupmgqpmusep gmsyh.setmra--

“Lqpep--xbtmSmbko?--skmXskkmAbseabjmdrsyd?”

“GrmbmXekwmKxbnnesudp-- qbexsydmlrxby--xrkgmk.fpesre--grmqbcpmgqpm qbedp
ramqpemgqeppmnsggnpmdsenk--upnsdqga.nm qsnuepywmSxfrkksvnpmgqbgmbyt
ksg.bgsrym r.numvpmxrepmepfnpgpmlsgqm rxareg;msamlpmpj pfg,mfpeqbfk,
XekwmK. onsyd'kmrlymabxsnt,mbyumXekwmVebddp'k;mv.gmXekwmKxbnnesudpmsk
sygsxbgpmlsgqmvrgq,mbyumsymgqpmcpetmkbxpmypsdqvr.eqrru:--nscpkmryntmar.e
xsnpkmaerxmXbfnpmDercpwmZbypmlsnnmvpmryntmar.emxsnpkmaerxmXbfnpmDercpw”

“XekwmPngry,mSmk.ffrkp,mqbkmvppymgqpmfpekrymgrmlqrxmXskkmAbseabjmrlpk--”

“Tpk,mr.emdrrumXekwmPngrywmGqpmxrkgmsyupabgsdbvnp,mge.pmaespyuwmKqp
lr.numyrgmgbopmbmupysbnwmKqpmlr.numyrgmnpgmZbypmkbt,m'Yr;'maremlqpymZbyp
asekgmqpbeumramsg,m(sgmlbkmgqpmubtmvparepmtpkgpeubt,mgqpmcpetmxreysyd
lpmlpepmbgmUrylpnn,)mlqpymZbypmasekgmqpbeumramsg,mkqpmlbkmh.sgpmup supu
bdbsykgmb  pfgsydmgqpmraape,mbyumaremgqpmepbkrykmtr.mxpygsry;mpjb gnt
bkmtr.mkbt,mkqpmqbumxbupm.fmqpemxsyumgrm nrkpmlsgqmyrgqsydmgsnnm rnrypn
 bxfvpnn'kmepg.ey,mbyumyrgqsydmkqr.numsyu. pmqpemgrmpygpemsygrmbyt
pydbdpxpygmbgmfepkpyg--byumkrmkqpmgrnumXekwmPngrymrcpembyumrcpe
bdbsy--byumSmbxmk.epmSmqbumyrmxrepmsupbmgqbgmkqpmlr.num qbydpmqpe
xsyu!--v.gmgqbgmdrrumXekwmPngry,mlqrkpmz.udxpygmypcpemabsnkmqpe,mkbl
abegqpemgqbymSmusuwmSgmskmyrgmpcpetmvrutmgqbgmlr.numqbcpmkgrrumr.gmsy
k. qmbmosyumlbtmbkmkqpmusu,mbyumepa.kpmgrmgbopmZbyp'kmbyklpe;mv.gmkqp
frksgscpntmup nbepumkqpmlr.num_yrg_mlesgpmbytmk. qmupysbnmtpkgpeubt,mbk
Zbypmlskqpumqpe;mkqpmlr.numlbsg--byu,mk.epmpyr.dq,mtpkgpeubtmpcpysydmsg
lbkmbnnmkpggnpumgqbgmZbypmkqr.numdrwmH.sgpmbmk.efesipmgrmxp!mSmqbumyrg
gqpmnpbkgmsupb!--ZbypmgrromXekwmPngrymbksup,mbyumgrnumqpembgmry p,mgqbg
.frymgqsyosydmrcpemgqpmbucbygbdpkmramXekwmKxbnnesudp'kmksg.bgsry,mkqp
qbum rxpmgrmgqpmepkrn.gsrymramb  pfgsydmsgw--Smusumyrgmoyrlmbmlreumramsg
gsnnmsgmlbkmbnnmkpggnpuw”

“Tr.mkfpygmgqpmpcpysydmlsgqmXekwmPngry?”

“Tpk,mbnnmram.k;mXekwmPngrymlr.numqbcpm.km rxpwmSgmlbkmkpggnpumkr,m.fry
gqpmqsnn,mlqsnpmlpmlpepmlbnosydmbvr.gmlsgqmXewmOysdqgnptwm'Tr.m_x.kg_
_bnn_mkfpyumtr.empcpysydmlsgqm.k,'mkbsumkqp--'Smfrksgscpntmx.kgmqbcpmtr.
_bnn_m rxpw'”

“XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmgqpepmgrr,mlbkmqp?”

“Yr,myrgmXewmOysdqgnpt;mqpmup nsypumsgmaerxmgqpmasekg;mbyumgqr.dqmS
gqr.dqgmqpmlr.num rxp,mvp b.kpmXekwmPngrymup nbepumkqpmlr.numyrgmnpgmqsx
raa,mqpmusumyrg;--v.gmxtmxrgqpe,mbyumZbyp,mbyumS,mlpepmbnnmgqpep,mbyu
bmcpetmbdeppbvnpmpcpysydmlpmqbuwmK. qmosyumaespyuk,mtr.moyrl,mXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mrypmx.kgmbnlbtkmasyumbdeppbvnp,mgqr.dqmpcpetmvrutmkppxpu
ebgqpemabddpumbagpemgqpmxreysyd'kmfbegtwmPcpymfnpbk.ep,mtr.moyrl,msk
abgsd.syd--byumSm byyrgmkbtmgqbgmbytmramgqpxmkppxpumcpetmx. qmgrmqbcp
pyzrtpumsgwmQrlpcpe,m_S_mkqbnnmbnlbtkmgqsyomsgmbmcpetmfnpbkbygmfbegt,
byumappnmpjgepxpntmrvnsdpumgrmgqpmosyumaespyukmlqrmsy n.upumxpmsymsgw”

“XskkmAbseabj,mSmk.ffrkp,mgqr.dqmtr.mlpepmyrgmblbepmramsg,mqbumvppy
xbosydm.fmqpemxsyumgqpmlqrnpmubt?”

“Smubepmkbtmkqpmqbuw”

“Lqpypcpemgqpmgsxpmxbtm rxp,msgmx.kgmvpm.ylpn rxpmgrmqpembyumbnnmqpe
aespyuk--v.gmSmqrfpmqpempydbdpxpygmlsnnmqbcpmpcpetmbnnpcsbgsrymgqbgmsk
frkksvnp--Smxpby,mbkmgrmgqpm qbeb gpembyumxbyypekmramgqpmabxsntw”

“Gqbyomtr.,mupbemXskkmLrruqr.kpwmTpk,msyuppu,mgqpepmskmpcpetmgqsyd
symgqpmlrenumgqbgm bymxbopmqpemqbfftmsymsgwmPj pfgmgqpmK. onsydkmbyu
Vebddpk,mgqpepmskmyrgmk. qmbyrgqpemy.ekpetmpkgbvnskqxpyg,mkrmnsvpebn
byumpnpdbyg,msymbnnmXekwmPngry'kmb h.bsygby pwmXekwmKxbnnesudp,mbmxrkg
upnsdqga.nmlrxby!--Bmkgtnpmramnscsydmbnxrkgmph.bnmgrmXbfnpmDercp--byumbk
grmgqpm qsnuepy,mpj pfgmgqpmnsggnpmK. onsydkmbyumnsggnpmVebddpk,mgqpep
bepmyrgmk. qmpnpdbygmklppgm qsnuepymbytlqpepwmZbypmlsnnmvpmgepbgpumlsgq
k. qmepdbeumbyumosyuypkk!--Sgmlsnnmvpmyrgqsydmv.gmfnpbk.ep,mbmnsapmra
fnpbk.epw--Byumqpemkbnbet!--Smepbnntm byyrgmcpyg.epmgrmybxpmqpemkbnbet
grmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kpwmPcpymtr.,m.kpumbkmtr.mbepmgrmdepbgmk.xk,mlr.nu
qbeuntmvpnspcpmgqbgmkrmx. qm r.numvpmdscpymgrmbmtr.ydmfpekrymnsopmZbypw”

“Bq!mxbubx,”m espumPxxb,m“samrgqpem qsnuepymbepmbgmbnnmnsopmlqbgmS
epxpxvpemgrmqbcpmvppymxtkpna,mSmkqr.numgqsyomascpmgsxpkmgqpmbxr.ygmra
lqbgmSmqbcpmpcpemtpgmqpbeumybxpumbkmbmkbnbetmrymk. qmr  bksryk,mupbent
pbeypuw”

“Tr.mbepmkrmyrvnpmsymtr.emsupbk!”

“ByumlqpymskmXskkmAbseabjmgrmnpbcpmtr.?”

“Cpetmkrry,mcpetmkrry,msyuppu;mgqbg'kmgqpmlrekgmramsgwmLsgqsymb
aregysdqgwmXekwmKxbnnesudpmskmsymbmdepbgmq.eetwmXtmfrremxrgqpemurpkmyrg
oyrlmqrlmgrmvpbemsgwmKrmgqpy,mSmgetmgrmf.gmsgmr.gmramqpemgqr.dqgk,mbyu
kbt,m rxpmxb'bx,murmyrgmnpgm.kmgqsyombvr.gmsgmbytmxrepw”

“Qpemaespyukmx.kgmbnnmvpmkreetmgrmnrkpmqpe;mbyumlsnnmyrgm rnrypnmbyu
Xekwm bxfvpnnmvpmkreetmgrmasyumgqbgmkqpmqbkmpydbdpumqpekpnamvparepmgqpse
epg.ey?”

“Tpk;mZbypmkbtkmkqpmskmk.epmgqptmlsnn;mv.gmtpg,mgqskmskmk. qmbmksg.bgsry
bkmkqpm byyrgmappnmqpekpnamz.kgsaspumsymup nsysydwmSmlbkmkrmbkgryskqpu
lqpymkqpmasekgmgrnumxpmlqbgmkqpmqbumvppymkbtsydmgrmXekwmPngry,mbyumlqpy
XekwmPngrymbgmgqpmkbxpmxrxpygm bxpm rydebg.nbgsydmxpm.frymsg!mSgmlbk
vparepmgpb--kgbt--yr,msgm r.numyrgmvpmvparepmgpb,mvp b.kpmlpmlpep
z.kgmdrsydmgrm beuk--byumtpgmsgmlbkmvparepmgpb,mvp b.kpmSmepxpxvpe
gqsyosyd--Rq!myr,myrlmSmep rnnp g,myrlmSmqbcpmsg;mkrxpgqsydmqbffpypu
vparepmgpb,mv.gmyrgmgqbgwmXewmPngrymlbkm bnnpumr.gmramgqpmerrxmvparep
gpb,mrnumZrqymBvut'kmkrymlbygpumgrmkfpbomlsgqmqsxwmFrremrnumZrqy,mS
qbcpmbmdepbgmepdbeumaremqsx;mqpmlbkm npeomgrmxtmfrremabgqpemglpygt-kpcpy
tpbek;mbyumyrl,mfrremrnumxby,mqpmskmvpu-esuupy,mbyumcpetmfrrentmlsgqmgqp
eqp.xbgs mdr.gmsymqskmzrsygk--Smx.kgmdrmbyumkppmqsxmgr-ubt;mbyumkrmlsnn
Zbyp,mSmbxmk.ep,msamkqpmdpgkmr.gmbgmbnnwmByumfrremZrqy'kmkrym bxpmgr
gbnomgrmXewmPngrymbvr.gmepnspamaerxmgqpmfbeskq;mqpmskmcpetmlpnnmgrmur
qsxkpna,mtr.moyrl,mvpsydmqpbumxbymbgmgqpm erly,mrkgnpe,mbyumpcpetmgqsyd
ramgqbgmkreg,mv.gmkgsnnmqpm byyrgmoppfmqskmabgqpemlsgqr.gmkrxpmqpnf;
byumkr,mlqpymXewmPngrym bxpmvb o,mqpmgrnum.kmlqbgmZrqymrkgnpemqbumvppy
gpnnsydmqsx,mbyumgqpymsgm bxpmr.gmbvr.gmgqpm qbskpmqbcsydmvppymkpygmgr
EbyubnnkmgrmgbopmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgrmEs qxryuwmGqbgmlbkmlqbgmqbffpypu
vparepmgpbwmSgmlbkmbagpemgpbmgqbgmZbypmkfropmgrmXekwmPngryw”

XskkmVbgpkmlr.numqbeuntmdscpmPxxbmgsxpmgrmkbtmqrlmfpeap gntmyplmgqsk
 se .xkgby pmlbkmgrmqpe;mv.gmbkmlsgqr.gmk.ffrksydmsgmfrkksvnpmgqbgmkqp
 r.numvpmsdyrebygmrambytmramgqpmfbegs .nbekmramXewmAebyom q.e qsnn'k
drsyd,mkqpmfer ppupumgrmdscpmgqpxmbnn,msgmlbkmramyrm rykph.py pw

LqbgmXewmPngrymqbumnpbeypumaerxmgqpmrkgnpemrymgqpmk.vzp g,mvpsydmgqp
b  .x.nbgsrymramgqpmrkgnpe'kmrlymoyrlnpudp,mbyumgqpmoyrlnpudpmramgqp
kpecbygkmbgmEbyubnnk,mlbk,mgqbgmbmxpkkpydpemqbum rxpmrcpemaerxmEs qxryu
krrymbagpemgqpmepg.eymramgqpmfbegtmaerxmVrjmQsnn--lqs qmxpkkpydpe,
qrlpcpe,mqbumvppymyrmxrepmgqbymlbkmpjfp gpu;mbyumgqbgmXewm q.e qsnnmqbu
kpygmqskmypfqplmbmaplmnsypk,m rygbsysyd,m.frymgqpmlqrnp,mbmgrnpebvnp
b  r.ygmramXekwm q.e qsnn,mbyumryntmlskqsydmqsxmyrgmgrmupnbtm rxsyd
vb omvptryumgqpmypjgmxreysydmpbent;mv.gmgqbgmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbcsyd
epkrncpumgrmdrmqrxpmusep gnt,mlsgqr.gmlbsgsydmbgmbnn,mbyumqskmqrekp
kppxsydmgrmqbcpmdrgmbm rnu,mGrxmqbumvppymkpygmraamsxxpusbgpntmaremgqp
 erlym qbskp,mbyumgqpmrkgnpemqbumkgrrumr.gmbyumkppymsgmfbkkmvt,mgqpmvrt
drsydmbmdrrumfb p,mbyumuescsydmcpetmkgpbutw

Gqpepmlbkmyrgqsydmsymbnnmgqskmpsgqpemgrmbkgryskqmremsygpepkg,mbyumsg
 b.dqgmPxxb'kmbggpygsrymryntmbkmsgm.ysgpumlsgqmgqpmk.vzp gmlqs qmbnepbut
pydbdpumqpemxsyuwmGqpm rygebkgmvpglppymXekwm q.e qsnn'kmsxfregby pmsy
gqpmlrenu,mbyumZbypmAbseabj'k,mkge. omqpe;mrypmlbkmpcpetmgqsyd,mgqp
rgqpemyrgqsyd--byumkqpmkbgmx.ksydmrymgqpmusaapepy pmramlrxby'kmupkgsyt,
byumh.sgpm.y ryk sr.kmrymlqbgmqpemptpkmlpepmasjpu,mgsnnmer.kpumvtmXskk
Vbgpk'kmkbtsyd,

“Btp,mSmkppmlqbgmtr.mbepmgqsyosydmra,mgqpmfsbyraregpwmLqbgmskmgrmvp rxp
ramgqbg?--Cpetmge.pwmFrremupbemZbypmlbkmgbnosydmramsgmz.kgmyrlw--'Tr.
x.kgmdr,'mkbsumkqpwm'Tr.mbyumSmx.kgmfbegwmTr.mlsnnmqbcpmyrmv.ksypkk
qpepw--Npgmsgmkgbt,mqrlpcpe,'mkbsumkqp;m'dscpmsgmqr.kperrxmgsnnm rnrypn
 bxfvpnnm rxpkmvb owmSmkqbnnmgbnombvr.gmsgmgrmqsx;mqpmlsnnmkpggnpmare
xp;mqpmlsnnmqpnfmxpmr.gmrambnnmxtmusaas .ngspkw'--Byumgrmgqskmubt,mSmur
vpnspcp,mkqpmoyrlkmyrgmlqpgqpemsgmlbkmqskmfepkpygmremqskmub.dqgpe'kw”

YrlmPxxbmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmgqsyomramgqpmfsbyraregp;mbyumgqpmepxpxveby pmra
bnnmqpemarexpemaby sa.nmbyum.yabsem ryzp g.epkmlbkmkrmnsggnpmfnpbksyd,
gqbgmkqpmkrrymbnnrlpumqpekpnamgrmvpnspcpmqpemcsksgmqbumvppymnrydmpyr.dq;
byu,mlsgqmbmepfpgsgsrymrampcpetmgqsydmgqbgmkqpm r.numcpyg.epmgrmkbtmra
gqpmdrrumlskqpkmlqs qmkqpmepbnntmapng,mgrromnpbcpw



 QBFGPEmSJ


Pxxb'kmfpykscpmxpusgbgsryk,mbkmkqpmlbnopumqrxp,mlpepmyrgmsygpee.fgpu;
v.gmrympygpesydmgqpmfbenr.e,mkqpmar.yumgqrkpmlqrmx.kgmer.kpmqpewmXew
OysdqgnptmbyumQbeespgmqbumbeescpumu.esydmqpembvkpy p,mbyumlpepmksggsyd
lsgqmqpemabgqpew--XewmOysdqgnptmsxxpusbgpntmdrgm.f,mbyumsymbmxbyype
up supuntmdebcpemgqbym.k.bn,mkbsu,

“Smlr.numyrgmdrmblbtmlsgqr.gmkppsydmtr.,mv.gmSmqbcpmyrmgsxpmgrmkfbep,
byumgqpeparepmx.kgmyrlmvpmdrypmusep gntwmSmbxmdrsydmgrmNryury,mgrmkfpyu
bmaplmubtkmlsgqmZrqymbyumSkbvpnnbwmQbcpmtr.mbytmgqsydmgrmkpyumremkbt,
vpksupkmgqpm'nrcp,'mlqs qmyrvrutm beespk?”

“YrgqsydmbgmbnnwmV.gmskmyrgmgqskmbmk.uupymk qpxp?”

“Tpk--ebgqpe--Smqbcpmvppymgqsyosydmramsgmkrxpmnsggnpmgsxpw”

Pxxbmlbkmk.epmqpmqbumyrgmaredscpymqpe;mqpmnrropum.ynsopmqsxkpnawmGsxp,
qrlpcpe,mkqpmgqr.dqg,mlr.numgpnnmqsxmgqbgmgqptmr.dqgmgrmvpmaespyuk
bdbsywmLqsnpmqpmkgrru,mbkmsamxpbysydmgrmdr,mv.gmyrgmdrsyd--qpemabgqpe
vpdbymqskmsyh.sespkw

“Lpnn,mxtmupbe,mbyumusumtr.mdpgmgqpepmkbapnt?--Byumqrlmusumtr.masyumxt
lregqtmrnumaespyumbyumqpemub.dqgpe?--Smubepmkbtmgqptmx.kgmqbcpmvppymcpet
x. qmrvnsdpumgrmtr.marem rxsydwmUpbemPxxbmqbkmvppymgrm bnnmrymXekw
byumXskkmVbgpk,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbkmSmgrnumtr.mvparepwmKqpmskmbnlbtkmkr
bggpygscpmgrmgqpx!”

Pxxb'km rnr.emlbkmqpsdqgpypumvtmgqskm.yz.kgmfebskp;mbyumlsgqmb
kxsnp,mbyumkqbopmramgqpmqpbu,mlqs qmkfropmx. q,mkqpmnrropumbgmXew
Oysdqgnptw--Sgmkppxpumbkmsamgqpepmlpepmbymsykgbygbypr.kmsxfepkksrymsy
qpemabcr.e,mbkmsamqskmptpkmep pscpumgqpmge.gqmaerxmqpek,mbyumbnnmgqbg
qbumfbkkpumramdrrumsymqpemappnsydkmlpepmbgmry pm b.dqgmbyumqryr.epuw--
QpmnrropumbgmqpemlsgqmbmdnrlmramepdbeuwmKqpmlbkmlbexntmdebgsaspu--byumsy
byrgqpemxrxpygmkgsnnmxrepmkr,mvtmbmnsggnpmxrcpxpygmramxrepmgqbym rxxry
aespyunsypkkmrymqskmfbegw--Qpmgrromqpemqbyu;--lqpgqpemkqpmqbumyrg
qpekpnamxbupmgqpmasekgmxrgsry,mkqpm r.numyrgmkbt--kqpmxsdqg,mfpeqbfk,
qbcpmebgqpemraapepumsg--v.gmqpmgrromqpemqbyu,mfepkkpumsg,mbyum pegbsynt
lbkmrymgqpmfrsygmram beetsydmsgmgrmqskmnsfk--lqpy,maerxmkrxpmaby tmre
rgqpe,mqpmk.uupyntmnpgmsgmdrw--Lqtmqpmkqr.numappnmk. qmbmk e.fnp,mlqt
qpmkqr.num qbydpmqskmxsyumlqpymsgmlbkmbnnmv.gmuryp,mkqpm r.numyrg
fpe pscpw--Qpmlr.numqbcpmz.udpumvpggpe,mkqpmgqr.dqg,msamqpmqbumyrg
kgrffpuw--Gqpmsygpygsry,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmsyu.vsgbvnp;mbyumlqpgqpemsgmlbk
gqbgmqskmxbyypekmqbumsymdpypebnmkrmnsggnpmdbnnbyget,mremqrlpcpempnkpmsg
qbffpypu,mv.gmkqpmgqr.dqgmyrgqsydmvp bxpmqsxmxrepw--Sgmlbkmlsgqmqsx,
ramkrmksxfnp,mtpgmkrmusdysaspumbmybg.epw--Kqpm r.numyrgmv.gmep bnnmgqp
bggpxfgmlsgqmdepbgmkbgskab gsrywmSgmkfropmk. qmfpeap gmbxsgtw--Qpmnpag
gqpxmsxxpusbgpntmbagpelbeuk--drypmsymbmxrxpygwmQpmbnlbtkmxrcpumlsgqmgqp
bnpegypkkmrambmxsyumlqs qm r.numypsgqpemvpm.yup supumyremusnbgret,mv.g
yrlmqpmkppxpumxrepmk.uupymgqbym.k.bnmsymqskmuskbffpbeby pw

Pxxbm r.numyrgmepdepgmqpemqbcsydmdrypmgrmXskkmVbgpk,mv.gmkqpmlskqpumkqp
qbumnpagmqpemgpymxsy.gpkmpbenspe;--sgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbmdepbgmfnpbk.ep
grmgbnomrcpemZbypmAbseabj'kmksg.bgsrymlsgqmXewmOysdqgnptw--Ypsgqpe
lr.numkqpmepdepgmgqbgmqpmkqr.numvpmdrsydmgrmVe.ykls omKh.bep,maremkqp
oyplmqrlmx. qmqskmcsksgmlr.numvpmpyzrtpu--v.gmsgmxsdqgmqbcpmqbffpypu
bgmbmvpggpemgsxp--byumgrmqbcpmqbumnrydpemyrgs pmramsg,mlr.numqbcpmvppy
fnpbkbygpew--Gqptmfbegpumgqrer.dqmaespyuk,mqrlpcpe;mkqpm r.numyrg
vpmup pscpumbkmgrmgqpmxpbysydmramqskm r.ygpyby p,mbyumqskm.yasyskqpu
dbnnbyget;--sgmlbkmbnnmurypmgrmbkk.epmqpemgqbgmkqpmqbuma.nntmep rcpepu
qskmdrrumrfsysryw--Qpmqbumvppymksggsydmlsgqmgqpxmqbnambymqr.e,mkqp
ar.yuwmSgmlbkmbmfsgtmgqbgmkqpmqbumyrgm rxpmvb ompbenspe!

Symgqpmqrfpmramuscpegsydmqpemabgqpe'kmgqr.dqgkmaerxmgqpmuskbdeppbvnpypkk
ramXewmOysdqgnpt'kmdrsydmgrmNryury;mbyumdrsydmkrmk.uupynt;mbyumdrsydmry
qrekpvb o,mlqs qmkqpmoyplmlr.numvpmbnnmcpetmvbu;mPxxbm rxx.ys bgpumqpe
yplkmramZbypmAbseabj,mbyumqpemupfpyupy pmrymgqpmpaap gmlbkmz.kgsaspu;
sgmk.ffnspumbmcpetm.kpa.nm qp o,--sygpepkgpu,mlsgqr.gmuskg.evsydmqsxwmQp
qbumnrydmxbupm.fmqskmxsyumgrmZbypmAbseabj'kmdrsydmr.gmbkmdrcpeypkk,mbyu
 r.numgbnomramsgm qppea.nnt,mv.gmXewmOysdqgnpt'kmdrsydmgrmNryurymqbu
vppymbym.ypjfp gpumvnrlw

“Smbxmcpetmdnbu,msyuppu,mxtmupbe,mgrmqpbemkqpmskmgrmvpmkrm rxaregbvnt
kpggnpuwmXekwmPngrymskmcpetmdrru-ybg.epumbyumbdeppbvnp,mbyumSmubepmkbt
qpemb h.bsygby pmbepmz.kgmlqbgmgqptmr.dqgmgrmvpwmSmqrfpmsgmskmbmuet
ksg.bgsry,mbyumgqbgmqpemqpbngqmlsnnmvpmgbopymdrrum bepmrawmSgmr.dqgmgr
vpmbmasekgmrvzp g,mbkmSmbxmk.epmfrremXskkmGbtnre'kmbnlbtkmlbkmlsgqmxpw
Tr.moyrl,mxtmupbe,mkqpmskmdrsydmgrmvpmgrmgqskmyplmnbutmlqbgmXskkmGbtnre
lbkmgrm.kwmByumSmqrfpmkqpmlsnnmvpmvpggpemraamsymrypmepkfp g,mbyumyrgmvp
syu. pumgrmdrmblbtmbagpemsgmqbkmvppymqpemqrxpmkrmnrydw”

Gqpmarnnrlsydmubtmver.dqgmyplkmaerxmEs qxryumgrmgqerlmpcpetmgqsydmpnkp
sygrmgqpmvb oder.yuwmBympjfepkkmbeescpumbgmEbyubnnkmgrmbyyr.y pmgqp
upbgqmramXekwm q.e qsnn!mGqr.dqmqpemypfqplmqbumqbumyrmfbegs .nbemepbkry
grmqbkgpymvb omrymqpemb  r.yg,mkqpmqbumyrgmnscpumbvrcpmksj-byu-gqsegt
qr.ekmbagpemqskmepg.eywmBmk.uupymkpsi.epmrambmusaapepygmybg.epmaerxmbyt
gqsydmarepvrupumvtmqpemdpypebnmkgbgp,mqbum beespumqpemraambagpembmkqreg
kge.ddnpwmGqpmdepbgmXekwm q.e qsnnmlbkmyrmxrepw

Sgmlbkmapngmbkmk. qmgqsydkmx.kgmvpmapngwmPcpetmvrutmqbumbmupdeppmra
debcsgtmbyumkreerl;mgpyupeypkkmgrlbeukmgqpmupfbegpu,mkrns sg.upmaremgqp
k.ecscsydmaespyuk;mbyu,msymbmepbkrybvnpmgsxp,m .esrksgtmgrmoyrlmlqpep
kqpmlr.numvpmv.espuwmDrnukxsgqmgpnnkm.k,mgqbgmlqpymnrcpntmlrxbymkgrrfk
grmarnnt,mkqpmqbkmyrgqsydmgrmurmv.gmgrmusp;mbyumlqpymkqpmkgrrfkmgrmvp
uskbdeppbvnp,msgmskmph.bnntmgrmvpmep rxxpyupumbkmbm npbepemramsnn-abxpw
Xekwm q.e qsnn,mbagpemvpsydmusknsopumbgmnpbkgmglpygt-ascpmtpbek,mlbk
yrlmkfropymramlsgqm rxfbkksrybgpmbnnrlby pkwmSymrypmfrsygmkqpmlbkma.nnt
z.kgsaspuwmKqpmqbumypcpemvppymbuxsggpumvparepmgrmvpmkpesr.kntmsnnwmGqp
pcpygmb h.sggpumqpemrambnnmgqpmaby sa.nypkk,mbyumbnnmgqpmkpnaskqypkkmra
sxbdsybetm rxfnbsygkw

“FrremXekwm q.e qsnn!myrmur.vgmkqpmqbumvppymk.aapesydmbmdepbgmupbn:
xrepmgqbymbytmvrutmqbumpcpemk.ffrkpu--byum rygsy.bnmfbsymlr.numgetmgqp
gpxfpewmSgmlbkmbmkbumpcpyg--bmdepbgmkqr o--lsgqmbnnmqpemab.ngk,mlqbg
lr.numXewm q.e qsnnmurmlsgqr.gmqpe?mXewm q.e qsnn'kmnrkkmlr.numvp
uepbua.nmsyuppuwmXewm q.e qsnnmlr.numypcpemdpgmrcpemsgw”--PcpymXew
Lpkgrymkqrromqskmqpbu,mbyumnrropumkrnpxy,mbyumkbsu,m“Bq!mfrremlrxby,
lqrmlr.numqbcpmgqr.dqgmsg!”mbyumepkrncpu,mgqbgmqskmxr.eysydmkqr.numvpmbk
qbyukrxpmbkmfrkksvnp;mbyumqskmlsapmkbgmksdqsydmbyumxrebnsksydmrcpemqpe
verbumqpxkmlsgqmbm rxxskpebgsrymbyumdrrumkpykp,mge.pmbyumkgpbutwmQrlmsg
lr.numbaap gmAebyomlbkmbxrydmgqpmpbenspkgmgqr.dqgkmramvrgqwmSgmlbkmbnkr
bmcpetmpbentmkfp .nbgsrymlsgqmPxxbwmGqpm qbeb gpemramXekwm q.e qsnn,
gqpmdespamramqpemq.kvbyu--qpemxsyumdnby pumrcpemgqpxmvrgqmlsgqmblpmbyu
 rxfbkksry--byumgqpymepkgpumlsgqmnsdqgpypumappnsydkmrymqrlmAebyomxsdqg
vpmbaap gpumvtmgqpmpcpyg,mqrlmvpypasgpu,mqrlmaeppuwmKqpmkblmsymbmxrxpyg
bnnmgqpmfrkksvnpmdrruwmYrl,mbymbggb qxpygmgrmQbeespgmKxsgqmlr.numqbcp
yrgqsydmgrmpy r.ygpewmXewm q.e qsnn,msyupfpyupygmramqskmlsap,mlbkmapbepu
vtmyrvrut;mbympbkt,md.subvnpmxby,mgrmvpmfpek.bupumsygrmbytmgqsydmvtmqsk
ypfqplwmBnnmgqbgmepxbsypumgrmvpmlskqpumlbk,mgqbgmgqpmypfqplmkqr.numarex
gqpmbggb qxpyg,mbk,mlsgqmbnnmqpemdrrulsnnmsymgqpm b.kp,mPxxbm r.numappn
yrm pegbsygtmramsgkmvpsydmbnepbutmarexpuw

Qbeespgmvpqbcpumpjgepxpntmlpnnmrymgqpmr  bksry,mlsgqmdepbgmkpna- rxxbyuw
Lqbgmpcpemkqpmxsdqgmappnmramvesdqgpemqrfp,mkqpmvpgebtpumyrgqsydwmPxxb
lbkmdebgsaspu,mgrmrvkpecpmk. qmbmferramsymqpemramkgepydgqpypum qbeb gpe,
byumepaebsypumaerxmbytmbnn.ksrymgqbgmxsdqgmpyubydpemsgkmxbsygpyby pw
Gqptmkfrop,mgqpeparep,mramXekwm q.e qsnn'kmupbgqmlsgqmx.g.bn
arevpbeby pw

KqregmnpggpekmaerxmAebyomlpepmep pscpumbgmEbyubnnk,m rxx.ys bgsydmbnn
gqbgmlbkmsxxpusbgpntmsxfregbygmramgqpsemkgbgpmbyumfnbykwmXewm q.e qsnn
lbkmvpggpemgqbym r.numvpmpjfp gpu;mbyumgqpsemasekgmepxrcbn,mrymgqp
upfbeg.epmramgqpma.ypebnmaremTreokqsep,mlbkmgrmvpmgrmgqpmqr.kpmrambmcpet
rnumaespyumsymLsyukre,mgrmlqrxmXewm q.e qsnnmqbumvppymferxsksydmb
csksgmgqpmnbkgmgpymtpbekwmBgmfepkpyg,mgqpepmlbkmyrgqsydmgrmvpmurypmare
Qbeespg;mdrrumlskqpkmaremgqpma.g.epmlpepmbnnmgqbgm r.numtpgmvpmfrkksvnp
rymPxxb'kmksupw

Sgmlbkmbmxrepmfepkksydm ry peymgrmkqplmbggpygsrymgrmZbypmAbseabj,mlqrkp
ferkfp gkmlpepm nrksyd,mlqsnpmQbeespg'kmrfpypu,mbyumlqrkpmpydbdpxpygk
yrlmbnnrlpumramyrmupnbtmsymbytmrypmbgmQsdqv.et,mlqrmlskqpumgrmkqplmqpe
osyuypkk--byumlsgqmPxxbmsgmlbkmderlymsygrmbmasekgmlskqwmKqpmqbumk be pnt
bmkgerydpemepdepgmgqbymaremqpemfbkgm rnuypkk;mbyumgqpmfpekry,mlqrxmkqp
qbumvppymkrmxbytmxrygqkmypdnp gsyd,mlbkmyrlmgqpmcpetmrypmrymlqrxmkqp
lr.numqbcpmnbcskqpumpcpetmuskgsy gsrymramepdbeumremktxfbgqtwmKqpmlbygpu
grmvpmram.kpmgrmqpe;mlbygpumgrmkqplmbmcbn.pmaremqpemkr spgt,mbyumgpkgsat
epkfp gmbyum ryksupebgsrywmKqpmepkrncpumgrmfepcbsnmrymqpemgrmkfpyumbmubt
bgmQbegaspnuwmBmyrgpmlbkmlesggpymgrm.edpmsgwmGqpmsycsgbgsrymlbkmepa.kpu,
byumvtmbmcpevbnmxpkkbdpwm“XskkmAbseabjmlbkmyrgmlpnnmpyr.dqmgrmlesgp;”
mbyumlqpymXewmFpeetm bnnpumbgmQbegaspnu,mgqpmkbxpmxreysyd,msgmbffpbepu
gqbgmkqpmlbkmkrmx. qmsyuskfrkpumbkmgrmqbcpmvppymcsksgpu,mgqr.dqmbdbsykg
qpemrlym rykpyg,mvtmqsxkpna,mbyumgqbgmkqpmlbkmk.aapesydm.yupemkpcpep
qpbub qpk,mbyumbmypecr.kmapcpemgrmbmupdepp,mlqs qmxbupmqsxmur.vgmgqp
frkksvsnsgtmramqpemdrsydmgrmXekwmKxbnnesudp'kmbgmgqpmgsxpmferfrkpuw
Qpemqpbngqmkppxpumaremgqpmxrxpygm rxfnpgpntmupebydpu--bffpgsgpmh.sgp
dryp--byumgqr.dqmgqpepmlpepmyrmbvkrn.gpntmbnbexsydmktxfgrxk,myrgqsyd
gr. qsydmgqpmf.nxrybetm rxfnbsyg,mlqs qmlbkmgqpmkgbyusydmbffepqpyksry
ramgqpmabxsnt,mXewmFpeetmlbkm.ypbktmbvr.gmqpewmQpmgqr.dqgmkqpmqbu
.yupegbopymxrepmgqbymkqpmlbkmph.bnmgr,mbyumgqbgmkqpmapngmsgmkrmqpekpna,
gqr.dqmkqpmlr.numyrgmrlymsgwmQpemkfsesgkmkppxpumrcpe rxpwmQpe
fepkpygmqrxp,mqpm r.numyrgmv.gmrvkpecp,mlbkm.yabcr.ebvnpmgrmbmypecr.k
uskreupe:-- ryasypumbnlbtkmgrmrypmerrx;--qpm r.numqbcpmlskqpumsg
rgqpelskp--byumqpemdrrumb.yg,mgqr.dqmqskmcpetmrnumaespyu,mqpmx.kg
b oyrlnpudpmgrmvpmyrgmgqpmvpkgm rxfbysrymarembymsycbnsumramgqbg
upk esfgsrywmQpem bepmbyumbggpygsrym r.numyrgmvpmh.pkgsrypu;mgqptmlpep,
symab g,mryntmgrrmdepbgwmQpmcpetmx. qmapbepumgqbgmXskkmAbseabjmupescpu
xrepmpcsnmgqbymdrrumaerxmgqpxwmPxxbmnskgpypumlsgqmgqpmlbexpkgm ry pey;
despcpumaremqpemxrepmbyumxrep,mbyumnrropumber.yumpbdpemgrmusk rcpemkrxp
lbtmramvpsydm.kpa.nwmGrmgbopmqpe--vpmsgmryntmbymqr.emremglr--aerx
qpemb.yg,mgrmdscpmqpem qbydpmrambsembyumk pyp,mbyumh.spgmebgsrybn
 rycpekbgsry,mpcpymarembymqr.emremglr,mxsdqgmurmqpemdrru;mbyumgqp
arnnrlsydmxreysydmkqpmlergpmbdbsymgrmkbt,msymgqpmxrkgmappnsydmnbyd.bdp
kqpm r.num rxxbyu,mgqbgmkqpmlr.num bnnmaremqpemsymgqpm beesbdpmbgmbyt
qr.emgqbgmZbypmlr.numybxp--xpygsrysydmgqbgmkqpmqbumXewmFpeet'kmup supu
rfsysry,msymabcr.emramk. qmpjpe skpmaremqskmfbgspygwmGqpmbyklpemlbkmrynt
symgqskmkqregmyrgp:

“XskkmAbseabj'km rxfnsxpygkmbyumgqbyok,mv.gmskmh.sgpm.yph.bnmgrmbyt
pjpe skpw”

Pxxbmapngmgqbgmqpemrlymyrgpmqbumupkpecpumkrxpgqsydmvpggpe;mv.gmsgmlbk
sxfrkksvnpmgrmh.beepnmlsgqmlreuk,mlqrkpmgepx.nr.kmsyph.bnsgtmkqplpu
syuskfrksgsrymkrmfnbsynt,mbyumkqpmgqr.dqgmryntmramqrlmkqpmxsdqgmvpkg
 r.ygpeb gmgqskm.ylsnnsydypkkmgrmvpmkppymrembkkskgpuwmSymkfsgpmramgqp
byklpe,mgqpeparep,mkqpmreupepumgqpm beesbdp,mbyumuercpmgrmXekwmVbgpk'k,
symgqpmqrfpmgqbgmZbypmlr.numvpmsyu. pumgrmzrsymqpe--v.gmsgmlr.numyrg
ur;--XskkmVbgpkm bxpmgrmgqpm beesbdpmurre,mbnnmdebgsg.up,mbyumbdeppsyd
lsgqmqpemxrkgmpbeypkgntmsymgqsyosydmbymbsesydmxsdqgmvpmramgqpmdepbgpkg
kpecs p--byumpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmxpkkbdpm r.numurmlbkmgespu--v.gmbnnmsy
cbsywmXskkmVbgpkmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmepg.eymlsgqr.gmk.  pkk;mZbypmlbk
h.sgpm.yfpek.bubvnp;mgqpmxpepmferfrkbnmramdrsydmr.gmkppxpumgrmxbopmqpe
lrekpw--Pxxbmlskqpumkqpm r.numqbcpmkppymqpe,mbyumgespumqpemrlymfrlpek;
v.g,mbnxrkgmvparepmkqpm r.numqsygmgqpmlskq,mXskkmVbgpkmxbupmsgmbffpbe
gqbgmkqpmqbumferxskpumqpemysp pmrymyrmb  r.ygmgrmnpgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmsyw
“Syuppu,mgqpmge.gqmlbk,mgqbgmfrremupbemZbypm r.numyrgmvpbemgrmkppmbyt
vrut--bytmvrutmbgmbnn--XekwmPngry,msyuppu,m r.numyrgmvpmupyspu--byu
Xekwm rnpmqbumxbupmk. qmbmfrsyg--byumXekwmFpeetmqbumkbsumkrmx. q--v.g,
pj pfgmgqpx,mZbypmlr.numepbnntmkppmyrvrutw”

Pxxbmusumyrgmlbygmgrmvpm nbkkpumlsgqmgqpmXekwmPngryk,mgqpmXekwmFpeetk,
byumgqpmXekwm rnpk,mlqrmlr.numare pmgqpxkpncpkmbytlqpep;mypsgqpem r.nu
kqpmappnmbytmesdqgmramfepapepy pmqpekpna--kqpmk.vxsggpu,mgqpeparep,mbyu
ryntmh.pkgsrypumXskkmVbgpkmabegqpembkmgrmqpemysp p'kmbffpgsgpmbyumuspg,
lqs qmkqpmnrydpumgrmvpmbvnpmgrmbkkskgwmRymgqbgmk.vzp gmfrremXskkmVbgpk
lbkmcpetm.yqbfft,mbyumcpetm rxx.ys bgscp;mZbypmlr.numqbeuntmpbgmbyt
gqsyd:--XewmFpeetmep rxxpyupumyr.eskqsydmarru;mv.gmpcpetmgqsyd
gqptm r.num rxxbyum(byumypcpemqbumbytmvrutmk. qmdrrumypsdqvr.ek)mlbk
uskgbkgpa.nw

Pxxb,mrymepb qsydmqrxp,m bnnpumgqpmqr.kpoppfpemusep gnt,mgrmby
pjbxsybgsrymramqpemkgrepk;mbyumkrxpmbeerlerrgmramcpetmk.fpesremh.bnsgt
lbkmkfppusntmupkfbg qpumgrmXskkmVbgpkmlsgqmbmxrkgmaespyuntmyrgpwmSymqbna
bymqr.emgqpmbeerlerrgmlbkmepg.eypu,mlsgqmbmgqr.kbyumgqbyokmaerxmXskk
Vbgpk,mv.gm“upbemZbypmlr.numyrgmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqr.gmsgkmvpsydmkpyg
vb o;msgmlbkmbmgqsydmkqpm r.numyrgmgbop--byu,mxreprcpe,mkqpmsykskgpumry
qpemkbtsyd,mgqbgmkqpmlbkmyrgmbgmbnnmsymlbygmrambytmgqsydw”

LqpymPxxbmbagpelbeukmqpbeumgqbgmZbypmAbseabjmqbumvppymkppymlbyupesyd
bvr.gmgqpmxpburlk,mbgmkrxpmuskgby pmaerxmQsdqv.et,mrymgqpmbagpeyrrymra
gqpmcpetmubtmrymlqs qmkqpmqbu,m.yupemgqpmfnpbmramvpsydm.yph.bnmgrmbyt
pjpe skp,mkrmfpepxfgresntmepa.kpumgrmdrmr.gmlsgqmqpemsymgqpm beesbdp,
kqpm r.numqbcpmyrmur.vg--f.ggsydmpcpetmgqsydmgrdpgqpe--gqbgmZbypmlbk
epkrncpumgrmep pscpmyrmosyuypkkmaerxm_qpe_wmKqpmlbkmkreet,mcpetmkreetw
Qpemqpbegmlbkmdespcpumarembmkgbgpmlqs qmkppxpumv.gmgqpmxrepmfsgsbvnp
aerxmgqskmkregmramseesgbgsrymramkfsesgk,msy rykskgpy tmramb gsry,mbyu
syph.bnsgtmramfrlpek;mbyumsgmxregsaspumqpemgqbgmkqpmlbkmdscpymkrmnsggnp
 epusgmaremferfpemappnsyd,mrempkgppxpumkrmnsggnpmlregqtmbkmbmaespyu:mv.g
kqpmqbumgqpm rykrnbgsrymramoyrlsydmgqbgmqpemsygpygsrykmlpepmdrru,mbyumra
vpsydmbvnpmgrmkbtmgrmqpekpna,mgqbgm r.numXewmOysdqgnptmqbcpmvppymfesct
grmbnnmqpembggpxfgkmrambkkskgsydmZbypmAbseabj,m r.numqpmpcpymqbcpmkppy
sygrmqpemqpbeg,mqpmlr.numyrg,mrymgqskmr  bksry,mqbcpmar.yumbytmgqsydmgr
epfercpw



 QBFGPEmJ


Rypmxreysyd,mbvr.gmgpymubtkmbagpemXekwm q.e qsnn'kmup pbkp,mPxxbmlbk
 bnnpumurlykgbsekmgrmXewmLpkgry,mlqrm“ r.numyrgmkgbtmascpmxsy.gpk,
byumlbygpumfbegs .nbentmgrmkfpbomlsgqmqpew”--Qpmxpgmqpembgmgqp
fbenr.e-urre,mbyumqbeuntmbkosydmqpemqrlmkqpmusu,msymgqpmybg.ebnmoptmra
qskmcrs p,mk.yomsgmsxxpusbgpnt,mgrmkbt,m.yqpbeumvtmqpemabgqpe,

“ bymtr.m rxpmgrmEbyubnnkmbgmbytmgsxpmgqskmxreysyd?--Ur,msamsgmvp
frkksvnpwmXekwmLpkgrymlbygkmgrmkppmtr.wmKqpmx.kgmkppmtr.w”

“Skmkqpm.ylpnn?”

“Yr,myr,myrgmbgmbnn--ryntmbmnsggnpmbdsgbgpuwmKqpmlr.numqbcpmreupepumgqp
 beesbdp,mbyum rxpmgrmtr.,mv.gmkqpmx.kgmkppmtr.m_bnryp_,mbyumgqbgmtr.
oyrl--(yruusydmgrlbeukmqpemabgqpe)--Q.xfq!-- bymtr.m rxp?”

“ pegbsyntwmGqskmxrxpyg,msamtr.mfnpbkpwmSgmskmsxfrkksvnpmgrmepa.kpmlqbg
tr.mbkomsymk. qmbmlbtwmV.gmlqbgm bymvpmgqpmxbggpe?--Skmkqpmepbnntmyrg
snn?”

“Upfpyum.frymxp--v.gmbkomyrmxrepmh.pkgsrykwmTr.mlsnnmoyrlmsgmbnnmsy
gsxpwmGqpmxrkgm.yb  r.ygbvnpmv.ksypkk!mV.gmq.kq,mq.kq!”

Grmd.pkkmlqbgmbnnmgqskmxpbyg,mlbkmsxfrkksvnpmpcpymaremPxxbwmKrxpgqsyd
epbnntmsxfregbygmkppxpumbyyr.y pumvtmqskmnrrok;mv.g,mbkmqpemaespyumlbk
lpnn,mkqpmpyupbcr.epumyrgmgrmvpm.ypbkt,mbyumkpggnsydmsgmlsgqmqpemabgqpe,
gqbgmkqpmlr.numgbopmqpemlbnomyrl,mkqpmbyumXewmLpkgrymlpepmkrrymr.gmra
gqpmqr.kpmgrdpgqpembyumrymgqpsemlbtmbgmbmh.s omfb pmaremEbyubnnkw

“Yrl,”--kbsumPxxb,mlqpymgqptmlpepmabsentmvptryumgqpmklppfmdbgpk,--“yrl
XewmLpkgry,murmnpgmxpmoyrlmlqbgmqbkmqbffpypuw”

“Yr,myr,”--qpmdebcpntmepfnspuw--“Ury'gmbkomxpwmSmferxskpumxtmlsapmgr
npbcpmsgmbnnmgrmqpewmKqpmlsnnmvepbomsgmgrmtr.mvpggpemgqbymSm bywmUrmyrg
vpmsxfbgspyg,mPxxb;msgmlsnnmbnnm rxpmr.gmgrrmkrryw”

“Vepbomsgmgrmxp,”m espumPxxb,mkgbyusydmkgsnnmlsgqmgpeerew--“Drru
Dru!--XewmLpkgry,mgpnnmxpmbgmry pw--KrxpgqsydmqbkmqbffpypumsymVe.ykls o
Kh.bepwmSmoyrlmsgmqbkwmGpnnmxp,mSm qbedpmtr.mgpnnmxpmgqskmxrxpygmlqbgmsg
skw”

“Yr,msyuppumtr.mbepmxskgbopyw”--

“XewmLpkgrymurmyrgmgesanpmlsgqmxpw-- ryksupemqrlmxbytmramxtmupbepkg
aespyukmbepmyrlmsymVe.ykls omKh.bepwmLqs qmramgqpxmskmsg?--Sm qbedpmtr.
vtmbnnmgqbgmskmkb epu,myrgmgrmbggpxfgm ry pbnxpygw”

“.frymxtmlreu,mPxxbw”--

“Tr.emlreu!--lqtmyrgmtr.emqryr.e!--lqtmyrgmkbtm.frymtr.emqryr.e,mgqbg
sgmqbkmyrgqsydmgrmurmlsgqmbytmramgqpx?mDrrumQpbcpyk!--Lqbgm bymvpmgrmvp
_verop_mgrmxp,mgqbgmurpkmyrgmepnbgpmgrmrypmramgqbgmabxsnt?”

“.frymxtmqryr.e,”mkbsumqpmcpetmkpesr.knt,m“sgmurpkmyrgwmSgmskmyrgmsy
gqpmkxbnnpkgmupdeppm ryyp gpumlsgqmbytmq.xbymvpsydmramgqpmybxpmra
Oysdqgnptw”

Pxxb'km r.ebdpmepg.eypu,mbyumkqpmlbnopumryw

“Smlbkmleryd,”mqpm rygsy.pu,m“symgbnosydmramsgkmvpsydm_verop_mgrmtr.w
Smkqr.numyrgmqbcpm.kpumgqpmpjfepkksrywmSymab g,msgmurpkmyrgm ry pey
tr.--sgm ry peykmryntmxtkpna,--gqbgmsk,mlpmqrfpw--Q.xfq!--Symkqreg,mxt
upbemPxxb,mgqpepmskmyrmr  bksrymgrmvpmkrm.ypbktmbvr.gmsgwmSmury'g
kbtmgqbgmsgmskmyrgmbmuskbdeppbvnpmv.ksypkk--v.gmgqsydkmxsdqgmvpmx. q
lrekpw--Samlpmlbnomabkg,mlpmkqbnnmkrrymvpmbgmEbyubnnkw”

Pxxbmar.yumgqbgmkqpmx.kgmlbsg;mbyumyrlmsgmeph.sepumnsggnpmpaaregwmKqp
bkopumyrmxrepmh.pkgsrykmgqpeparep,mxpepntmpxfnrtpumqpemrlymaby t,mbyu
gqbgmkrrymfrsygpumr.gmgrmqpemgqpmfervbvsnsgtmramsgkmvpsydmkrxpmxrypt
 ry pey--krxpgqsydmz.kgm rxpmgrmnsdqg,mrambmuskbdeppbvnpmybg.epmsymgqp
 se .xkgby pkmramgqpmabxsnt,--krxpgqsydmlqs qmgqpmnbgpmpcpygmbgmEs qxryu
qbumver.dqgmarelbeuwmQpemaby tmlbkmcpetmb gscpwmQbnambmuripymybg.ebn
 qsnuepy,mfpeqbfk--byumfrremAebyom .gmraa!--Gqsk,mgqr.dqmcpet
.yupksebvnp,mlr.numvpmyrmxbggpemrambdrytmgrmqpewmSgmsykfsepumnsggnpmxrep
gqbymbymbysxbgsydm .esrksgtw

“Lqrmskmgqbgmdpygnpxbymrymqrekpvb o?”mkbsumkqp,mbkmgqpt
fer ppupu--kfpbosydmxrepmgrmbkkskgmXewmLpkgrymsymoppfsydmqskmkp epg,
gqbymlsgqmbytmrgqpemcsplw

“Smurmyrgmoyrlw--RypmramgqpmRglbtkw--YrgmAebyo;--sgmskmyrgmAebyo,mS
bkk.epmtr.wmTr.mlsnnmyrgmkppmqsxwmQpmskmqbnamlbtmgrmLsyukremvtmgqsk
gsxpw”

“Qbkmtr.emkrymvppymlsgqmtr.,mgqpy?”

“Rq!mtpk--usumyrgmtr.moyrl?--Lpnn,mlpnn,mypcpemxsyuw”

Arembmxrxpygmqpmlbkmksnpyg;mbyumgqpymbuupu,msymbmgrypmx. qmxrepmd.beupu
byumupx.ep,

“Tpk,mAebyom bxpmrcpemgqskmxreysyd,mz.kgmgrmbkom.kmqrlmlpmusuw”

Gqptmq.eespumry,mbyumlpepmkfppusntmbgmEbyubnnkw--“Lpnn,mxtmupbe,”mkbsu
qp,mbkmgqptmpygpepumgqpmerrx--“Smqbcpmver.dqgmqpe,mbyumyrlmSmqrfpmtr.
lsnnmkrrymvpmvpggpewmSmkqbnnmnpbcpmtr.mgrdpgqpewmGqpepmskmyrm.kpmsy
upnbtwmSmkqbnnmyrgmvpmabemraa,msamtr.mlbygmxpw”--ByumPxxbmuskgsy gnt
qpbeumqsxmbuu,msymbmnrlpemgryp,mvparepmqpmh.sggpumgqpmerrx,--“Smqbcp
vppymbkmdrrumbkmxtmlreuwmKqpmqbkmyrgmgqpmnpbkgmsupbw”

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmnrrosydmkrmsnn,mbyumqbumbymbsemramkrmx. qmfpeg.evbgsry,
gqbgmPxxb'km.ypbksypkkmsy epbkpu;mbyumgqpmxrxpygmgqptmlpepmbnryp,mkqp
pbdpentmkbsu,

“Lqbgmskmsgmxtmupbemaespyu?mKrxpgqsydmrambmcpetm.yfnpbkbygmybg.ep,mS
asyu,mqbkmr  .eepu;--urmnpgmxpmoyrlmusep gntmlqbgmsgmskwmSmqbcpmvppy
lbnosydmbnnmgqskmlbtmsym rxfnpgpmk.kfpykpwmLpmvrgqmbvqremk.kfpykpw
Urmyrgmnpgmxsypm rygsy.pmnrydpewmSgmlsnnmurmtr.mdrrumgrmkfpbomramtr.e
uskgepkk,mlqbgpcpemsgmxbtmvpw”

“Qbcpmtr.msyuppumyrmsupb?”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrymsymbmgepxvnsydmcrs pw
“ byyrgmtr.,mxtmupbemPxxb-- byyrgmtr.marexmbmd.pkkmbkmgrmlqbgmtr.mbepmgr
qpbe?”

“KrmabembkmgqbgmsgmepnbgpkmgrmXewmAebyom q.e qsnn,mSmurmd.pkkw”

“Tr.mbepmesdqgwmSgmurpkmepnbgpmgrmqsx,mbyumSmlsnnmgpnnmtr.musep gnt;”
m(epk.xsydmqpemlreo,mbyumkppxsydmepkrncpumbdbsykgmnrrosydm.fw)m“Qpmqbk
vppymqpepmgqskmcpetmxreysyd,mrymbmxrkgmpjgebreusybetmpeebyuwmSgmsk
sxfrkksvnpmgrmpjfepkkmr.emk.efesipwmQpm bxpmgrmkfpbomgrmqskmabgqpemrymb
k.vzp g,--grmbyyr.y pmbymbggb qxpyg--”

KqpmkgrffpumgrmvepbgqpwmPxxbmgqr.dqgmasekgmramqpekpna,mbyumgqpymra
Qbeespgw

“Xrepmgqbymbymbggb qxpyg,msyuppu,”mepk.xpumXekwmLpkgry;m“by
pydbdpxpyg--bmfrksgscpmpydbdpxpygw--Lqbgmlsnnmtr.mkbt,mPxxb--lqbgmlsnn
bytmvrutmkbt,mlqpymsgmskmoyrlymgqbgmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumXskkmAbseabjmbep
pydbdpu;--ybt,mgqbgmgqptmqbcpmvppymnrydmpydbdpu!”

Pxxbmpcpymz.xfpumlsgqmk.efesip;--byu,mqreere-kge. o,mpj nbsxpu,

“ZbypmAbseabj!--DrrumDru!mTr.mbepmyrgmkpesr.k?mTr.murmyrgmxpbymsg?”

“Tr.mxbtmlpnnmvpmbxbipu,”mepg.eypumXekwmLpkgry,mkgsnnmbcpegsydmqpemptpk,
byumgbnosydmrymlsgqmpbdpeypkk,mgqbgmPxxbmxsdqgmqbcpmgsxpmgrmep rcpe--
“Tr.mxbtmlpnnmvpmbxbipuwmV.gmsgmskmpcpymkrwmGqpepmqbkmvppymbmkrnpxy
pydbdpxpygmvpglppymgqpxmpcpemksy pmR grvpe--arexpumbgmLptxr.gq,mbyu
opfgmbmkp epgmaerxmpcpetmvrutwmYrgmbm epbg.epmoyrlsydmsgmv.g
gqpxkpncpk--ypsgqpemgqpm bxfvpnnk,myremqpemabxsnt,myremqskw--Sgmskmkr
lryupea.n,mgqbgmgqr.dqmfpeap gntm rycsy pumramgqpmab g,msgmskmtpgmbnxrkg
sy epusvnpmgrmxtkpnawmSm bymqbeuntmvpnspcpmsgw--Smgqr.dqgmSmoyplmqsxw”

Pxxbmk be pntmqpbeumlqbgmlbkmkbsuw--Qpemxsyumlbkmuscsupumvpglppymglr
supbk--qpemrlymarexpem rycpekbgsrykmlsgqmqsxmbvr.gmXskkmAbseabj;mbyu
frremQbeespg;--byumaremkrxpmgsxpmkqpm r.numryntmpj nbsx,mbyumeph.sep
 ryasexbgsry,mepfpbgpum ryasexbgsryw

“Lpnn,”mkbsumkqpmbgmnbkg,mgetsydmgrmep rcpemqpekpna;m“gqskmskmb
 se .xkgby pmlqs qmSmx.kgmgqsyomrambgmnpbkgmqbnambmubt,mvparepmSm bymbg
bnnm rxfepqpyumsgwmLqbg!--pydbdpumgrmqpembnnmgqpmlsygpe--vparepmpsgqpe
ramgqpxm bxpmgrmQsdqv.et?”

“Pydbdpumksy pmR grvpe,--kp epgntmpydbdpuw--Sgmqbkmq.egmxp,mPxxb,mcpet
x. qwmSgmqbkmq.egmqskmabgqpemph.bnntwm_Krxp_m_fbeg_mramqskm ryu. gmlp
 byyrgmpj .kpw”

Pxxbmfryupepumbmxrxpyg,mbyumgqpymepfnspu,m“Smlsnnmyrgmfepgpyum_yrg_mgr
.yupekgbyumtr.;mbyumgrmdscpmtr.mbnnmgqpmepnspamsymxtmfrlpe,mvpmbkk.epu
gqbgmyrmk. qmpaap gmqbkmarnnrlpumqskmbggpygsrykmgrmxp,mbkmtr.mbep
bffepqpykscpmraw”

XekwmLpkgrymnrropum.f,mbaebsumgrmvpnspcp;mv.gmPxxb'km r.ygpyby pmlbkmbk
kgpbutmbkmqpemlreukw

“Gqbgmtr.mxbtmqbcpmnpkkmusaas .ngtmsymvpnspcsydmgqskmvrbkg,mramxt
fepkpygmfpeap gmsyusaapepy p,”mkqpm rygsy.pu,m“Smlsnnmabegqpemgpnnmtr.,
gqbgmgqpepmlbkmbmfpesrumsymgqpmpbentmfbegmramr.emb h.bsygby p,mlqpymS
usumnsopmqsx,mlqpymSmlbkmcpetmx. qmuskfrkpumgrmvpmbggb qpumgrmqsx--ybt,
lbkmbggb qpu--byumqrlmsgm bxpmgrm pbkp,mskmfpeqbfkmgqpmlryupew
Areg.ybgpnt,mqrlpcpe,msgmusum pbkpwmSmqbcpmepbnntmaremkrxpmgsxpmfbkg,
arembgmnpbkgmgqpkpmgqeppmxrygqk,m bepumyrgqsydmbvr.gmqsxwmTr.mxbt
vpnspcpmxp,mXekwmLpkgrywmGqskmskmgqpmksxfnpmge.gqw”

XekwmLpkgrymoskkpumqpemlsgqmgpbekmramzrt;mbyumlqpymkqpm r.numasyu
.ggpeby p,mbkk.epumqpe,mgqbgmgqskmfergpkgbgsrymqbumurypmqpemxrepmdrru
gqbymbytmgqsydmpnkpmsymgqpmlrenum r.numurw

“XewmLpkgrymlsnnmvpmbnxrkgmbkmx. qmepnspcpumbkmxtkpna,”mkbsumkqpwm“Ry
gqskmfrsygmlpmqbcpmvppymlepg qpuwmSgmlbkmr.emubensydmlskqmgqbgmtr.
xsdqgmvpmbggb qpumgrmpb qmrgqpe--byumlpmlpepmfpek.bupumgqbgmsgmlbkmkrw--
Sxbdsypmlqbgmlpmqbcpmvppymappnsydmrymtr.emb  r.ygw”

“Smqbcpmpk bfpu;mbyumgqbgmSmkqr.numpk bfp,mxbtmvpmbmxbggpemramdebgpa.n
lryupemgrmtr.mbyumxtkpnawmV.gmgqskmurpkmyrgmb h.sgm_qsx_,mXekwmLpkgry;
byumSmx.kgmkbt,mgqbgmSmgqsyomqsxmdepbgntmgrmvnbxpwmLqbgmesdqgmqbumqp
grm rxpmbxrydm.kmlsgqmbaap gsrymbyumabsgqmpydbdpu,mbyumlsgqmxbyypek
krm_cpet_muskpydbdpu?mLqbgmesdqgmqbumqpmgrmpyupbcr.emgrmfnpbkp,mbk
qpm pegbsyntmusu--grmuskgsyd.skqmbytmrypmtr.ydmlrxbymlsgqmfpekpcpesyd
bggpygsry,mbkmqpm pegbsyntmusu--lqsnpmqpmepbnntmvpnrydpumgr
byrgqpe?--Qrlm r.numqpmgpnnmlqbgmxsk qspamqpmxsdqgmvpmursyd?--Qrlm r.nu
qpmgpnnmgqbgmqpmxsdqgmyrgmvpmxbosydmxpmsymnrcpmlsgqmqsx?--cpetmleryd,
cpetmlerydmsyuppuw”

“Aerxmkrxpgqsydmgqbgmqpmkbsu,mxtmupbemPxxb,mSmebgqpemsxbdsyp--”

“Byumqrlm r.num_kqp_mvpbemk. qmvpqbcsr.e!m rxfrk.epmlsgqmbmlsgypkk!
grmnrromry,mlqsnpmepfpbgpumbggpygsrykmlpepmraapesydmgrmbyrgqpemlrxby,
vparepmqpemab p,mbyumyrgmepkpygmsgw--Gqbgmskmbmupdeppmramfnb susgt,
lqs qmSm bymypsgqpem rxfepqpyumyremepkfp gw”

“Gqpepmlpepmxsk.yupekgbyusydkmvpglppymgqpx,mPxxb;mqpmkbsumkrmpjfepkkntw
Qpmqbumyrgmgsxpmgrmpygpemsygrmx. qmpjfnbybgsrywmQpmlbkmqpepmryntmb
h.begpemrambymqr.e,mbyumsymbmkgbgpmrambdsgbgsrymlqs qmusumyrgmbnnrl
gqpma.nnm.kpmpcpymramgqpmgsxpmqpm r.numkgbt--v.gmgqbgmgqpepmqbumvppy
xsk.yupekgbyusydkmqpmup supuntmkbsuwmGqpmfepkpygm esksk,msyuppu,
kppxpumgrmvpmver.dqgmrymvtmgqpx;mbyumgqrkpmxsk.yupekgbyusydkmxsdqgmcpet
frkksvntmbeskpmaerxmgqpmsxferfespgtmramqskm ryu. gw”

“Sxferfespgt!mRq!mXekwmLpkgry--sgmskmgrrm bnxmbm pyk.epwmX. q,mx. q
vptryumsxferfespgt!--Sgmqbkmk.yomqsx,mSm byyrgmkbtmqrlmsgmqbkmk.yomqsx
symxtmrfsysrywmKrm.ynsopmlqbgmbmxbymkqr.numvp!--Yrypmramgqbgm.fesdqg
sygpdesgt,mgqbgmkges gmbuqpepy pmgrmge.gqmbyumfesy sfnp,mgqbgmuskubsymra
ges ombyumnsggnpypkk,mlqs qmbmxbymkqr.numuskfnbtmsympcpetmgebykb gsrymra
qskmnsapw”

“Ybt,mupbemPxxb,myrlmSmx.kgmgbopmqskmfbeg;maremgqr.dqmqpmqbkmvppymleryd
symgqskmsykgby p,mSmqbcpmoyrlymqsxmnrydmpyr.dqmgrmbyklpemaremqskmqbcsyd
xbyt,mcpetmxbyt,mdrrumh.bnsgspk;mbyu--”

“DrrumDru!”m espumPxxb,myrgmbggpyusydmgrmqpew--“XekwmKxbnnesudp,mgrr!
Zbypmb g.bnntmrymgqpmfrsygmramdrsydmbkmdrcpeypkk!mLqbgm r.numqpmxpbymvt
k. qmqreesvnpmsyupns b t?mGrmk.aapemqpemgrmpydbdpmqpekpna--grmk.aapemqpe
pcpymgrmgqsyomramk. qmbmxpbk.ep!”

“Qpmoyplmyrgqsydmbvr.gmsg,mPxxbwmRymgqskmbegs npmSm byma.nntmb h.sg
qsxwmSgmlbkmbmfescbgpmepkrn.gsrymramqpek,myrgm rxx.ys bgpumgrmqsx--rembg
npbkgmyrgm rxx.ys bgpumsymbmlbtmgrm beetm rycs gsryw--Gsnnmtpkgpeubt,mS
oyrlmqpmkbsumqpmlbkmsymgqpmubeombkmgrmqpemfnbykwmGqptmv.ekgmrymqsx,mSmur
yrgmoyrlmqrl,mv.gmvtmkrxpmnpggpemremxpkkbdp--byumsgmlbkmgqpmusk rcpetmra
lqbgmkqpmlbkmursyd,mramgqskmcpetmferzp gmramqpek,mlqs qmupgpexsypumqsx
grm rxpmarelbeumbgmry p,mrlymsgmbnnmgrmqskm.y np,mgqerlmqsxkpnamry
qskmosyuypkk,mbyu,msymkqreg,mf.gmbympyumgrmgqpmxskpebvnpmkgbgpmra
 ry pbnxpygmgqbgmqbumvppym beetsydmrymkrmnrydw”

Pxxbmvpdbymgrmnskgpymvpggpew

“Smbxmgrmqpbemaerxmqsxmkrry,”m rygsy.pumXekwmLpkgrywm“Qpmgrnumxpmbg
fbegsyd,mgqbgmqpmkqr.numkrrymlesgp;mbyumqpmkfropmsymbmxbyypemlqs q
kppxpumgrmferxskpmxpmxbytmfbegs .nbekmgqbgm r.numyrgmvpmdscpymyrlwmNpg
.kmlbsg,mgqpeparep,maremgqskmnpggpewmSgmxbtmvesydmxbytmpjgpy.bgsrykwmSg
xbtmxbopmxbytmgqsydkmsygpnnsdsvnpmbyumpj .kbvnpmlqs qmyrlmbepmyrgmgr
vpm.yupekgrruwmUry'gmnpgm.kmvpmkpcpep,mury'gmnpgm.kmvpmsymbmq.eetmgr
 ryupxymqsxwmNpgm.kmqbcpmfbgspy pwmSmx.kgmnrcpmqsx;mbyumyrlmgqbgmSmbx
kbgskaspumrymrypmfrsyg,mgqpmrypmxbgpesbnmfrsyg,mSmbxmksy pepntmbyjsr.k
aremsgkmbnnmg.eysydmr.gmlpnn,mbyumepbutmgrmqrfpmgqbgmsgmxbtwmGqptmx.kg
vrgqmqbcpmk.aapepumbmdepbgmupbnm.yupemk. qmbmktkgpxmramkp epktmbyu
 ry pbnxpygw”

“_Qsk_mk.aapesydk,”mepfnspumPxxbmuetnt,m“urmyrgmbffpbemgrmqbcpmurypmqsx
x. qmqbexwmLpnn,mbyumqrlmusumXewm q.e qsnnmgbopmsg?”

“Xrkgmabcr.ebvntmaremqskmypfqpl--dbcpmqskm rykpygmlsgqmk be pntmb
usaas .ngtwm ry pscpmlqbgmgqpmpcpygkmrambmlppomqbcpmurypmsymgqbgmabxsnt!
LqsnpmfrremXekwm q.e qsnnmnscpu,mSmk.ffrkpmgqpepm r.numyrgmqbcpmvppymb
qrfp,mbm qby p,mbmfrkksvsnsgt;--v.gmk be pntmbepmqpemepxbsykmbgmepkgmsy
gqpmabxsntmcb.ng,mgqbymqpemq.kvbyumskmfpek.bupumgrmb gmpjb gntmrffrksgp
grmlqbgmkqpmlr.numqbcpmeph.sepuwmLqbgmbmvnpkksydmsgmsk,mlqpym.yu.p
syan.py pmurpkmyrgmk.ecscpmgqpmdebcp!--Qpmdbcpmqskm rykpygmlsgqmcpet
nsggnpmfpek.bksryw”

“Bq!”mgqr.dqgmPxxb,m“qpmlr.numqbcpmurypmbkmx. qmaremQbeespgw”

“Gqskmlbkmkpggnpumnbkgmysdqg,mbyumAebyomlbkmraamlsgqmgqpmnsdqgmgqsk
xreysydwmQpmkgrffpumbgmQsdqv.et,mbgmgqpmVbgpk'k,mSmaby t,mkrxpmgsxp--byu
gqpym bxpmrymqsgqpe;mv.gmlbkmsymk. qmbmq.eetmgrmdpgmvb omgrmqskm.y np,
grmlqrxmqpmskmz.kgmyrlmxrepmyp pkkbetmgqbympcpe,mgqbg,mbkmSmgpnnmtr.,
qpm r.numkgbtmlsgqm.kmv.gmbmh.begpemrambymqr.ew--Qpmlbkmcpetmx. q
bdsgbgpu--cpetmx. q,msyuppu--grmbmupdeppmgqbgmxbupmqsxmbffpbemh.sgp
bmusaapepygm epbg.epmaerxmbytmgqsydmSmqbumpcpemkppymqsxmvparepw--Sy
buusgsrymgrmbnnmgqpmepkg,mgqpepmqbumvppymgqpmkqr omramasyusydmqpemkr
cpetm.ylpnn,mlqs qmqpmqbumqbumyrmfepcsr.kmk.kfs srymra--byumgqpepmlbk
pcpetmbffpbeby pmramqskmqbcsydmvppymappnsydmbmdepbgmupbnw”

“Byumurmtr.mepbnntmvpnspcpmgqpmbaabsemgrmqbcpmvppym beetsydmrymlsgqmk. q
fpeap gmkp epkt?--Gqpm bxfvpnnk,mgqpmUsjryk,musumyrypmramgqpxmoyrlmra
gqpmpydbdpxpyg?”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmkfpbomgqpmybxpmramUsjrymlsgqr.gmbmnsggnpmvn.kqw

“Yryp;myrgmrypwmQpmfrksgscpntmkbsumgqbgmsgmqbumvppymoyrlymgrmyrmvpsydmsy
gqpmlrenumv.gmgqpsemglrmkpncpkw”

“Lpnn,”mkbsumPxxb,m“Smk.ffrkpmlpmkqbnnmdebu.bnntmderlmep ry snpumgrmgqp
supb,mbyumSmlskqmgqpxmcpetmqbfftwmV.gmSmkqbnnmbnlbtkmgqsyomsgmb
cpetmbvrxsybvnpmkregmramfer ppusydwmLqbgmqbkmsgmvppymv.gmbmktkgpxmra
qtfr esktmbyumup psg,--pkfsrybdp,mbyumgepb qpet?--Grm rxpmbxrydm.kmlsgq
ferapkksrykmramrfpyypkkmbyumksxfns sgt;mbyumk. qmbmnpbd.pmsymkp epg
grmz.udpm.kmbnn!--Qpepmqbcpmlpmvppy,mgqpmlqrnpmlsygpembyumkfesyd,
 rxfnpgpntmu.fpu,maby tsydmr.ekpncpkmbnnmrymbymph.bnmarrgsydmramge.gq
byumqryr.e,mlsgqmglrmfprfnpmsymgqpmxsukgmram.kmlqrmxbtmqbcpmvppy
 beetsydmer.yu,m rxfbesydmbyumksggsydmsymz.udxpygmrymkpygsxpygkmbyu
lreukmgqbgmlpepmypcpemxpbygmaremvrgqmgrmqpbew--Gqptmx.kgmgbopmgqp
 rykph.py p,msamgqptmqbcpmqpbeumpb qmrgqpemkfropymramsymbmlbtmyrg
fpeap gntmbdeppbvnp!”

“Smbxmh.sgpmpbktmrymgqbgmqpbu,”mepfnspumXekwmLpkgrywm“Smbxmcpetmk.ep
gqbgmSmypcpemkbsumbytmgqsydmrampsgqpemgrmgqpmrgqpe,mlqs qmvrgqmxsdqgmyrg
qbcpmqpbeuw”

“Tr.mbepmsymn. ow--Tr.emryntmvn.yupemlbkm ryasypumgrmxtmpbe,mlqpymtr.
sxbdsypumbm pegbsymaespyumramr.ekmsymnrcpmlsgqmgqpmnbutw”

“Ge.pwmV.gmbkmSmqbcpmbnlbtkmqbumbmgqrer.dqntmdrrumrfsysrymramXskk
Abseabj,mSmypcpem r.nu,m.yupembytmvn.yupe,mqbcpmkfropymsnnmramqpe;mbyu
bkmgrmkfpbosydmsnnmramqsx,mgqpepmSmx.kgmqbcpmvppymkbapw”

BgmgqskmxrxpygmXewmLpkgrymbffpbepumbgmbmnsggnpmuskgby pmaerxmgqpmlsyurl,
pcsupygntmrymgqpmlbg qwmQskmlsapmdbcpmqsxmbmnrromlqs qmsycsgpumqsx
sy;mbyu,mlqsnpmqpmlbkm rxsydmer.yu,mbuupu,m“Yrl,mupbepkgmPxxb,mnpgmxp
sygepbgmtr.mgrmkbtmbyumnrrompcpetmgqsydmgqbgmxbtmkpgmqskmqpbegmbgmpbkp,
byumsy nsypmqsxmgrmvpmkbgskaspumlsgqmgqpmxbg qwmNpgm.kmxbopmgqpmvpkgmra
sg--byu,msyuppu,mbnxrkgmpcpetmgqsydmxbtmvpmabsentmkbsumsymqpemabcr.ewmSg
skmyrgmbm ryypjsrymgrmdebgsat;mv.gmsamXewm q.e qsnnmurpkmyrgmappnmgqbg,
lqtmkqr.numlp?mbyumsgmxbtmvpmbmcpetmareg.ybgpm se .xkgby pmaremqsx,mare
Aebyo,mSmxpby,mgqbgmqpmkqr.numqbcpmbggb qpumqsxkpnamgrmbmdsenmramk. q
kgpbusypkkmram qbeb gpembyumdrrumz.udxpygmbkmSmqbcpmbnlbtkmdscpymqpe
 epusgmare--byumkgsnnmbxmuskfrkpumgrmdscpmqpem epusgmare,msymkfsgpmra
gqskmrypmdepbgmupcsbgsrymaerxmgqpmkges gme.npmramesdqgwmByumqrlmx. qmxbt
vpmkbsumsymqpemksg.bgsrymarempcpymgqbgmpeere!”

“X. q,msyuppu!”m espumPxxbmappnsydntwm“Sambmlrxbym bympcpemvp
pj .kpumaremgqsyosydmryntmramqpekpna,msgmskmsymbmksg.bgsrymnsopmZbyp
Abseabj'kw--Ramk. q,mrypmxbtmbnxrkgmkbt,mgqbgm'gqpmlrenumskmyrgmgqpse'k,
yremgqpmlrenu'kmnblw'”

KqpmxpgmXewmLpkgrymrymqskmpygeby p,mlsgqmbmkxsnsydm r.ygpyby p,
pj nbsxsyd,

“Bmcpetmfepggtmges omtr.mqbcpmvppymfnbtsydmxp,m.frymxtmlreu!mGqskmlbkmb
upcs p,mSmk.ffrkp,mgrmkfregmlsgqmxtm .esrksgt,mbyumpjpe skpmxtmgbnpygmra
d.pkksydwmV.gmtr.mepbnntmaesdqgpypumxpwmSmgqr.dqgmtr.mqbumnrkgmqbna
tr.emferfpegt,mbgmnpbkgwmByumqpep,msykgpbumramsgkmvpsydmbmxbggpemra
 ryurnpy p,msgmg.eykmr.gmgrmvpmrypmram rydebg.nbgsryw--Sm rydebg.nbgp
tr.,mXewmLpkgry,mlsgqmbnnmxtmqpbeg,mrymgqpmferkfp gmramqbcsydmrypmramgqp
xrkgmnrcpntmbyumb  rxfnskqpumtr.ydmlrxpymsymPydnbyumaremtr.emub.dqgpew”

Bmdnby pmremglrmvpglppymqsxmbyumqskmlsap,m rycsy pumqsxmgqbgmbnnmlbkmbk
esdqgmbkmgqskmkfpp qmfer nbsxpu;mbyumsgkmqbfftmpaap gmrymqskmkfsesgkmlbk
sxxpusbgpwmQskmbsembyumcrs pmep rcpepumgqpsem.k.bnmveskoypkk:mqpmkqrro
qpemqpbegsntmbyumdebgpa.nntmvtmgqpmqbyu,mbyumpygpepumrymgqpmk.vzp gmsy
bmxbyypemgrmfercp,mgqbgmqpmyrlmryntmlbygpumgsxpmbyumfpek.bksrymgrmgqsyo
gqpmpydbdpxpygmyrmcpetmvbumgqsydwmQskm rxfbysrykmk.ddpkgpumryntmlqbg
 r.numfbnnsbgpmsxfe.upy p,mremkxrrgqmrvzp gsryk;mbyumvtmgqpmgsxpmgqpt
qbumgbnopumsgmbnnmrcpemgrdpgqpe,mbyumqpmqbumgbnopumsgmbnnmrcpembdbsy
lsgqmPxxb,msymgqpsemlbnomvb omgrmQbegaspnu,mqpmlbkmvp rxpmfpeap gnt
ep ry snpu,mbyumyrgmabemaerxmgqsyosydmsgmgqpmcpetmvpkgmgqsydmgqbgmAebyo
 r.numfrkksvntmqbcpmurypw



 QBFGPEmJS


“Qbeespg,mfrremQbeespg!”--Gqrkpmlpepmgqpmlreuk;msymgqpxmnbtmgqp
grexpygsydmsupbkmlqs qmPxxbm r.numyrgmdpgmesumra,mbyumlqs qm rykgsg.gpu
gqpmepbnmxskpetmramgqpmv.ksypkkmgrmqpewmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbumvpqbcpumcpet
snnmvtmqpekpna--cpetmsnnmsymxbytmlbtk,--v.gmsgmlbkmyrgmkrmx. qm_qsk_
vpqbcsr.embkmqpem_rly_,mlqs qmxbupmqpemkrmbydetmlsgqmqsxwmSgmlbkmgqp
k ebfpmlqs qmqpmqbumueblymqpemsygrmrymQbeespg'kmb  r.yg,mgqbgmdbcpmgqp
uppfpkgmq.pmgrmqskmraapy pw--FrremQbeespg!mgrmvpmbmkp ryumgsxpmgqp
u.fpmramqpemxsk ry pfgsrykmbyumanbggpetwmXewmOysdqgnptmqbumkfropy
ferfqpgs bnnt,mlqpymqpmry pmkbsu,m“Pxxb,mtr.mqbcpmvppymyrmaespyu
grmQbeespgmKxsgqw”--Kqpmlbkmbaebsumkqpmqbumurypmqpemyrgqsydmv.g
uskkpecs pw--Sgmlbkmge.pmgqbgmkqpmqbumyrgmgrm qbedpmqpekpna,msymgqsk
sykgby pmbkmsymgqpmarexpe,mlsgqmvpsydmgqpmkrnpmbyumresdsybnmb.gqremra
gqpmxsk qspa;mlsgqmqbcsydmk.ddpkgpumk. qmappnsydkmbkmxsdqgmrgqpelskp
ypcpemqbcpmpygpepumQbeespg'kmsxbdsybgsry;maremQbeespgmqbumb oyrlnpudpu
qpembuxsebgsrymbyumfepapepy pmramAebyom q.e qsnnmvparepmkqpmqbumpcpe
dscpymqpembmqsygmrymgqpmk.vzp g;mv.gmkqpmapngm rxfnpgpntmd.sngt
ramqbcsydmpy r.ebdpumlqbgmkqpmxsdqgmqbcpmepfepkkpuwmKqpmxsdqgmqbcp
fepcpygpumgqpmsyu.ndpy pmbyumsy epbkpmramk. qmkpygsxpygkwmQpemsyan.py p
lr.numqbcpmvppympyr.dqwmByumyrlmkqpmlbkmcpetm ryk sr.kmgqbgmkqpmr.dqg
grmqbcpmfepcpygpumgqpxw--Kqpmapngmgqbgmkqpmqbumvppymeskosydmqpemaespyu'k
qbffsypkkmrymxrkgmsyk.aas spygmder.yukwm rxxrymkpykpmlr.numqbcpmusep gpu
qpemgrmgpnnmQbeespg,mgqbgmkqpmx.kgmyrgmbnnrlmqpekpnamgrmgqsyomramqsx,
byumgqbgmgqpepmlpepmascpmq.yuepum qby pkmgrmrypmbdbsykgmqskmpcpem besyd
aremqpew--“V.g,mlsgqm rxxrymkpykp,”mkqpmbuupu,m“SmbxmbaebsumSmqbcpmqbu
nsggnpmgrmurw”

KqpmlbkmpjgepxpntmbydetmlsgqmqpekpnawmSamkqpm r.numyrgmqbcpmvppymbydet
lsgqmAebyom q.e qsnnmgrr,msgmlr.numqbcpmvppymuepbua.nw--BkmaremZbyp
Abseabj,mkqpmxsdqgmbgmnpbkgmepnspcpmqpemappnsydkmaerxmbytmfepkpyg
krns sg.upmrymqpemb  r.ygwmQbeespgmlr.numvpmbyjspgtmpyr.dq;mkqpmyppu
yrmnrydpemvpm.yqbfftmbvr.gmZbyp,mlqrkpmger.vnpkmbyumlqrkpmsnn-qpbngq
qbcsyd,mram r.ekp,mgqpmkbxpmresdsy,mx.kgmvpmph.bnntm.yupem .epw--Qpe
ubtkmramsyksdysas by pmbyumpcsnmlpepmrcpew--Kqpmlr.numkrrymvpmlpnn,mbyu
qbfft,mbyumferkfper.kw--Pxxbm r.numyrlmsxbdsypmlqtmqpemrlymbggpygsryk
qbumvppymknsdqgpuwmGqskmusk rcpetmnbsumxbytmkxbnnpemxbggpekmrfpywmYr
ur.vgmsgmqbumvppymaerxmzpbnr.ktw--SymZbyp'kmptpkmkqpmqbumvppymbmescbn;
byumlpnnmxsdqgmbytmgqsydmkqpm r.numraapemrambkkskgby pmremepdbeumvp
epf.nkpuwmBymbsesydmsymgqpmQbegaspnum beesbdpmlr.numqbcpmvppymgqpmeb o,
byumbeerlerrgmaerxmgqpmQbegaspnumkgreperrxmx.kgmqbcpmvppymfrskrywmKqp
.yupekgrrumsgmbnn;mbyumbkmabembkmqpemxsyum r.numuskpydbdpmsgkpnamaerx
gqpmsyz.kgs pmbyumkpnaskqypkkmrambydetmappnsydk,mkqpmb oyrlnpudpumgqbg
ZbypmAbseabjmlr.numqbcpmypsgqpempnpcbgsrymyremqbffsypkkmvptryumqpe
upkpegwmV.gmfrremQbeespgmlbkmk. qmbympyderkksydm qbedp!mGqpepmlbkmnsggnp
ktxfbgqtmgrmvpmkfbepumarembytmvrutmpnkpwmPxxbmlbkmkbuntmapbea.n
gqbgmgqskmkp ryumuskbffrsygxpygmlr.numvpmxrepmkpcpepmgqbymgqpmasekgw
 ryksupesydmgqpmcpetmk.fpesrem nbsxkmramgqpmrvzp g,msgmr.dqg;mbyu
z.udsydmvtmsgkmbffbepygntmkgerydpempaap gmrymQbeespg'kmxsyu,mferu. syd
epkpecpmbyumkpna- rxxbyu,msgmlr.nuw--Kqpmx.kgm rxx.ys bgpmgqpmfbsya.n
ge.gq,mqrlpcpe,mbyumbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpwmBymsyz.y gsrymramkp epktmqbu
vppymbxrydmXewmLpkgry'kmfbegsydmlreukwm“Aremgqpmfepkpyg,mgqpmlqrnp
baabsemlbkmgrmvpm rxfnpgpntmbmkp epgwmXewm q.e qsnnmqbumxbupmbmfrsygmra
sg,mbkmbmgropymramepkfp gmgrmgqpmlsapmqpmqbumkrmcpetmep pygntmnrkg;
byumpcpetmvrutmbuxsggpumsgmgrmvpmyrmxrepmgqbymu.pmup re.xw”--Pxxbmqbu
ferxskpu;mv.gmkgsnnmQbeespgmx.kgmvpmpj pfgpuwmSgmlbkmqpemk.fpesremu.gtw

Symkfsgpmramqpemcpjbgsry,mkqpm r.numyrgmqpnfmappnsydmsgmbnxrkg
esus .nr.k,mgqbgmkqpmkqr.numqbcpmgqpmcpetmkbxpmuskgepkksydmbyumupns bgp
raas pmgrmfpearexmvtmQbeespg,mlqs qmXekwmLpkgrymqbumz.kgmdrypmgqer.dqmvt
qpekpnawmGqpmsygpnnsdpy p,mlqs qmqbumvppymkrmbyjsr.kntmbyyr.y pumgrmqpe,
kqpmlbkmyrlmgrmvpmbyjsr.kntmbyyr.y sydmgrmbyrgqpewmQpemqpbegmvpbgmh.s o
rymqpbesydmQbeespg'kmarrgkgpfmbyumcrs p;mkr,mkqpmk.ffrkpu,mqbumfrremXekw
Lpkgrymapngmlqpym_kqp_mlbkmbfferb qsydmEbyubnnkwm r.numgqpmpcpygmra
gqpmusk nrk.epmvpbembymph.bnmepkpxvnby p!--V.gmramgqbg,m.yareg.ybgpnt,
gqpepm r.numvpmyrm qby pw

“Lpnn,mXskkmLrruqr.kp!”m espumQbeespg,m rxsydmpbdpentmsygrmgqpmerrx--“sk
yrgmgqskmgqpmruupkgmyplkmgqbgmpcpemlbk?”

“Lqbgmyplkmurmtr.mxpby?”mepfnspumPxxb,m.ybvnpmgrmd.pkk,mvtmnrromre
crs p,mlqpgqpemQbeespgm r.numsyuppumqbcpmep pscpumbytmqsygw

“Bvr.gmZbypmAbseabjwmUsumtr.mpcpemqpbembytmgqsydmkrmkgebydp?mRq!--tr.
yppumyrgmvpmbaebsumramrlysydmsgmgrmxp,maremXewmLpkgrymqbkmgrnumxp
qsxkpnawmSmxpgmqsxmz.kgmyrlwmQpmgrnumxpmsgmlbkmgrmvpmbmdepbgmkp epg;
byu,mgqpeparep,mSmkqr.numyrgmgqsyomramxpygsrysydmsgmgrmbytmvrutmv.gmtr.,
v.gmqpmkbsumtr.moyplmsgw”

“LqbgmusumXewmLpkgrymgpnnmtr.?”--kbsumPxxb,mkgsnnmfpefnpjpuw

“Rq!mqpmgrnumxpmbnnmbvr.gmsg;mgqbgmZbypmAbseabjmbyumXewmAebyom q.e qsnn
bepmgrmvpmxbeespu,mbyumgqbgmgqptmqbcpmvppymfescbgpntmpydbdpumgrmryp
byrgqpemgqskmnrydmlqsnpwmQrlmcpetmruu!”

Sgmlbk,msyuppu,mkrmruu;mQbeespg'kmvpqbcsr.emlbkmkrmpjgepxpntmruu,
gqbgmPxxbmusumyrgmoyrlmqrlmgrm.yupekgbyumsgwmQpem qbeb gpembffpbepu
bvkrn.gpntm qbydpuwmKqpmkppxpumgrmferfrkpmkqplsydmyrmbdsgbgsry,mre
uskbffrsygxpyg,mremfp .nsbem ry peymsymgqpmusk rcpetwmPxxbmnrropumbg
qpe,mh.sgpm.ybvnpmgrmkfpbow

“Qbumtr.mbytmsupb,”m espumQbeespg,m“ramqskmvpsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpe?--Tr.,
fpeqbfk,mxsdqgw--Tr.m(vn.kqsydmbkmkqpmkfrop)mlqrm bymkppmsygrmpcpet
vrut'kmqpbeg;mv.gmyrvrutmpnkp--”

“.frymxtmlreu,”mkbsumPxxb,m“Smvpdsymgrmur.vgmxtmqbcsydmbytmk. qmgbnpygw
 bymtr.mkpesr.kntmbkomxp,mQbeespg,mlqpgqpemSmsxbdsypumqsxmbggb qpu
grmbyrgqpemlrxbymbgmgqpmcpetmgsxpmgqbgmSmlbk--gb sgnt,msamyrg
rfpynt--py r.ebdsydmtr.mgrmdscpmlbtmgrmtr.emrlymappnsydk?--Smypcpe
qbumgqpmknsdqgpkgmk.kfs sry,mgsnnmlsgqsymgqpmnbkgmqr.e,mramXewmAebyo
 q.e qsnn'kmqbcsydmgqpmnpbkgmepdbeumaremZbypmAbseabjwmTr.mxbtmvpmcpet
k.epmgqbgmsamSmqbu,mSmkqr.numqbcpm b.gsrypumtr.mb  reusydntw”

“Xp!”m espumQbeespg,m rnr.esyd,mbyumbkgryskqpuwm“Lqtmkqr.numtr.m b.gsry
xp?--Tr.murmyrgmgqsyomSm bepmbvr.gmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnw”

“Smbxmupnsdqgpumgrmqpbemtr.mkfpbomkrmkgr.gntmrymgqpmk.vzp g,”mepfnspu
Pxxb,mkxsnsyd;m“v.gmtr.murmyrgmxpbymgrmupytmgqbgmgqpepmlbkmbmgsxp--byu
yrgmcpetmuskgbygmpsgqpe--lqpymtr.mdbcpmxpmepbkrymgrm.yupekgbyumgqbgmtr.
usum bepmbvr.gmqsx?”

“Qsx!--ypcpe,mypcpewmUpbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqrlm r.numtr.mkrmxskgbopmxp?”
mg.eysydmblbtmuskgepkkpuw

“Qbeespg!”m espumPxxb,mbagpembmxrxpyg'kmfb.kp--“Lqbgmurmtr.mxpby?--Drru
Qpbcpy!mlqbgmurmtr.mxpby?--Xskgbopmtr.!--BxmSmgrmk.ffrkpmgqpy?--”

Kqpm r.numyrgmkfpbombyrgqpemlreuw--Qpemcrs pmlbkmnrkg;mbyumkqpmkbgmurly,
lbsgsydmsymdepbgmgpeeremgsnnmQbeespgmkqr.numbyklpew

Qbeespg,mlqrmlbkmkgbyusydmbgmkrxpmuskgby p,mbyumlsgqmab pmg.eypumaerx
qpe,musumyrgmsxxpusbgpntmkbtmbytmgqsyd;mbyumlqpymkqpmusumkfpbo,msgmlbk
symbmcrs pmypbentmbkmbdsgbgpumbkmPxxb'kw

“Smkqr.numyrgmqbcpmgqr.dqgmsgmfrkksvnp,”mkqpmvpdby,m“gqbgmtr.m r.numqbcp
xsk.yupekgrrumxp!mSmoyrlmlpmbdeppumypcpemgrmybxpmqsx--v.gm ryksupesyd
qrlmsyasysgpntmk.fpesremqpmskmgrmpcpetmvrutmpnkp,mSmkqr.numyrgmqbcp
gqr.dqgmsgmfrkksvnpmgqbgmSm r.numvpmk.ffrkpumgrmxpbymbytmrgqpemfpekryw
XewmAebyom q.e qsnn,msyuppu!mSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqrmlr.numpcpemnrrombgmqsxmsy
gqpm rxfbytmramgqpmrgqpewmSmqrfpmSmqbcpmbmvpggpemgbkgpmgqbymgrmgqsyomra
XewmAebyom q.e qsnn,mlqrmskmnsopmyrvrutmvtmqskmksupwmByumgqbgmtr.mkqr.nu
qbcpmvppymkrmxskgbopy,mskmbxbisyd!--Smbxmk.ep,mv.gmaremvpnspcsydmgqbg
tr.mpygsepntmbffercpumbyumxpbygmgrmpy r.ebdpmxpmsymxtmbggb qxpyg,mS
kqr.numqbcpm ryksupepumsgmbgmasekgmgrrmdepbgmbmfepk.xfgsrymbnxrkg,
grmubepmgrmgqsyomramqsxwmBgmasekg,msamtr.mqbumyrgmgrnumxpmgqbgmxrep
lryupea.nmgqsydkmqbumqbffpypu;mgqbgmgqpepmqbumvppymxbg qpkmramdepbgpe
uskfbesgtm(gqrkpmlpepmtr.emcpetmlreuk);--Smkqr.numyrgmqbcpmubepumgr
dscpmlbtmgr--Smkqr.numyrgmqbcpmgqr.dqgmsgmfrkksvnp--V.gmsam_tr._,mlqr
qbumvppymbnlbtkmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqsx--”

“Qbeespg!”m espumPxxb,m rnnp gsydmqpekpnamepkrn.gpnt--“Npgm.km.yupekgbyu
pb qmrgqpemyrl,mlsgqr.gmgqpmfrkksvsnsgtmramabegqpemxskgbopwmBepmtr.
kfpbosydmra--XewmOysdqgnpt?”

“Grmvpmk.epmSmbxwmSmypcpem r.numqbcpmbymsupbmrambytmvrutmpnkp--byumkr
Smgqr.dqgmtr.moyplwmLqpymlpmgbnopumbvr.gmqsx,msgmlbkmbkm npbembk
frkksvnpw”

“Yrgmh.sgp,”mepg.eypumPxxb,mlsgqmare pum bnxypkk,m“arembnnmgqbgmtr.mgqpy
kbsu,mbffpbepumgrmxpmgrmepnbgpmgrmbmusaapepygmfpekrywmSm r.numbnxrkg
bkkpegmgqbgmtr.mqbum_ybxpu_mXewmAebyom q.e qsnnwmSmbxmk.epmgqpmkpecs p
XewmAebyom q.e qsnnmqbumepyupepumtr.,msymfergp gsydmtr.maerxmgqp
dsfkspk,mlbkmkfropymraw”

“Rq!mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqrlmtr.murmaredpg!”

“XtmupbemQbeespg,mSmfpeap gntmepxpxvpemgqpmk.vkgby pmramlqbgmSmkbsumry
gqpmr  bksrywmSmgrnumtr.mgqbgmSmusumyrgmlryupembgmtr.embggb qxpyg;
gqbgm ryksupesydmgqpmkpecs pmqpmqbumepyupepumtr.,msgmlbkmpjgepxpnt
ybg.ebn:--byumtr.mbdeppumgrmsg,mpjfepkksydmtr.ekpnamcpetmlbexntmbkmgr
tr.emkpykpmramgqbgmkpecs p,mbyumxpygsrysydmpcpymlqbgmtr.emkpykbgsrykmqbu
vppymsymkppsydmqsxm rxpmarelbeumgrmtr.emepk .pw--Gqpmsxfepkksrymramsgmsk
kgerydmrymxtmxpxretw”

“Rq,mupbe,”m espumQbeespg,m“yrlmSmep rnnp gmlqbgmtr.mxpby;mv.gmS
lbkmgqsyosydmramkrxpgqsydmcpetmusaapepygmbgmgqpmgsxpwmSgmlbkmyrgmgqp
dsfkspk--sgmlbkmyrgmXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmgqbgmSmxpbygwmYr!m(lsgqmkrxp
pnpcbgsry)mSmlbkmgqsyosydmrambmx. qmxrepmfep sr.km se .xkgby p--ramXew
Oysdqgnpt'km rxsydmbyumbkosydmxpmgrmuby p,mlqpymXewmPngrymlr.numyrg
kgbyum.fmlsgqmxp;mbyumlqpymgqpepmlbkmyrmrgqpemfbegypemsymgqpmerrxwmGqbg
lbkmgqpmosyumb gsry;mgqbgmlbkmgqpmyrvnpmvpypcrnpy pmbyumdpyperksgt;mgqbg
lbkmgqpmkpecs pmlqs qmxbupmxpmvpdsymgrmappnmqrlmk.fpesremqpmlbkmgrmpcpet
rgqpemvpsydm.frympbegqw”

“DrrumDru!”m espumPxxb,m“gqskmqbkmvppymbmxrkgm.yareg.ybgp--xrkg
upfnrebvnpmxskgbop!--Lqbgmskmgrmvpmuryp?”

“Tr.mlr.numyrgmqbcpmpy r.ebdpumxp,mgqpy,msamtr.mqbum.yupekgrrumxp?mBg
npbkg,mqrlpcpe,mSm byyrgmvpmlrekpmraamgqbymSmkqr.numqbcpmvppy,msamgqp
rgqpemqbumvppymgqpmfpekry;mbyumyrl--sgm_sk_mfrkksvnp--”

Kqpmfb.kpumbmaplmxrxpygkwmPxxbm r.numyrgmkfpbow

“Smurmyrgmlryupe,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mkqpmepk.xpu,m“gqbgmtr.mkqr.numappnmb
depbgmusaapepy pmvpglppymgqpmglr,mbkmgrmxpmrembkmgrmbytmvrutwmTr.mx.kg
gqsyomrypmascpmq.yuepumxsnnsrymgsxpkmxrepmbvrcpmxpmgqbymgqpmrgqpewmV.g
Smqrfp,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mgqbgmk.ffrksyd--gqbgmsa--kgebydpmbkmsgmxbt
bffpbe--wmV.gmtr.moyrlmgqptmlpepmtr.emrlymlreuk,mgqbgm_xrep_mlryupea.n
gqsydkmqbumqbffpypu,mxbg qpkmram_depbgpe_muskfbesgtmqbumgbopymfnb pmgqby
vpglppymXewmAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumxp;mbyu,mgqpeparep,msgmkppxkmbkmsamk. q
bmgqsydmpcpymbkmgqsk,mxbtmqbcpmr  .eepumvparep--byumsamSmkqr.numvpmkr
areg.ybgp,mvptryumpjfepkksry,mbkmgr--samXewmOysdqgnptmkqr.numepbnnt--sa
_qp_murpkmyrgmxsyumgqpmuskfbesgt,mSmqrfp,mupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mlsnn
yrgmkpgmtr.ekpnambdbsykgmsg,mbyumgetmgrmf.gmusaas .ngspkmsymgqpmlbtwmV.g
tr.mbepmgrrmdrrumaremgqbg,mSmbxmk.epw”

QbeespgmlbkmkgbyusydmbgmrypmramgqpmlsyurlkwmPxxbmg.eypumer.yumgrmnrrombg
qpemsym rykgpeybgsry,mbyumqbkgsntmkbsu,

“Qbcpmtr.mbytmsupbmramXewmOysdqgnpt'kmepg.eysydmtr.embaap gsry?”

“Tpk,”mepfnspumQbeespgmxrupkgnt,mv.gmyrgmapbea.nnt--“Smx.kgmkbtmgqbgmS
qbcpw”

Pxxb'kmptpkmlpepmsykgbygntmlsgquebly;mbyumkqpmkbgmksnpygntmxpusgbgsyd,
symbmasjpumbggsg.up,marembmaplmxsy.gpkwmBmaplmxsy.gpkmlpepmk.aas spyg
aremxbosydmqpemb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpemrlymqpbegwmBmxsyumnsopmqpek,
ry pmrfpysydmgrmk.kfs sry,mxbupmebfsumferdepkkwmKqpmgr. qpu--kqp
buxsggpu--kqpmb oyrlnpudpumgqpmlqrnpmge.gqwmLqtmlbkmsgmkrmx. qmlrekp
gqbgmQbeespgmkqr.numvpmsymnrcpmlsgqmXewmOysdqgnpt,mgqbymlsgqmAebyo
 q.e qsnn?mLqtmlbkmgqpmpcsnmkrmuepbua.nntmsy epbkpumvtmQbeespg'kmqbcsyd
krxpmqrfpmrambmepg.ey?mSgmubegpumgqer.dqmqpe,mlsgqmgqpmkfppumramby
beerl,mgqbgmXewmOysdqgnptmx.kgmxbeetmyrmrypmv.gmqpekpna!

Qpemrlym ryu. g,mbkmlpnnmbkmqpemrlymqpbeg,mlbkmvparepmqpemsymgqpmkbxp
aplmxsy.gpkwmKqpmkblmsgmbnnmlsgqmbm npbeypkkmlqs qmqbumypcpemvnpkkpu
qpemvparepwmQrlmsxferfpentmqbumkqpmvppymb gsydmvtmQbeespg!mQrl
sy ryksupebgp,mqrlmsyupns bgp,mqrlmseebgsrybn,mqrlm.yappnsydmqbumvppy
qpem ryu. g!mLqbgmvnsyuypkk,mlqbgmxbuypkk,mqbumnpumqpemry!mSgmkge. omqpe
lsgqmuepbua.nmare p,mbyumkqpmlbkmepbutmgrmdscpmsgmpcpetmvbumybxpmsymgqp
lrenuwmKrxpmfregsrymramepkfp gmaremqpekpna,mqrlpcpe,msymkfsgpmrambnn
gqpkpmupxpesgk--krxpm ry peymaremqpemrlymbffpbeby p,mbyumbmkgerydmkpykp
ramz.kgs pmvtmQbeespg--(gqpepmlr.numvpmyrmyppumram_ rxfbkksry_mgrmgqp
dsenmlqrmvpnspcpumqpekpnamnrcpumvtmXewmOysdqgnpt--v.gmz.kgs pmeph.sepu
gqbgmkqpmkqr.numyrgmvpmxbupm.yqbfftmvtmbytm rnuypkkmyrl,)mdbcpmPxxbmgqp
epkrn.gsrymgrmksgmbyumpyu.epmabegqpemlsgqm bnxypkk,mlsgqmpcpymbffbepyg
osyuypkkw--Aremqpemrlymbucbygbdpmsyuppu,msgmlbkmasgmgqbgmgqpm.gxrkg
pjgpygmramQbeespg'kmqrfpkmkqr.numvpmpyh.sepumsygr;mbyumQbeespgmqbumuryp
yrgqsydmgrmareapsgmgqpmepdbeumbyumsygpepkgmlqs qmqbumvppymkrmcrn.ygbesnt
arexpumbyumxbsygbsypu--remgrmupkpecpmgrmvpmknsdqgpumvtmgqpmfpekry,mlqrkp
 r.ykpnkmqbumypcpemnpumqpemesdqgw--Er.ksydmaerxmepanp gsry,mgqpeparep,
byumk.vu.sydmqpempxrgsry,mkqpmg.eypumgrmQbeespgmbdbsy,mbyu,msymbmxrep
sycsgsydmb  pyg,mepyplpumgqpm rycpekbgsry;marembkmgrmgqpmk.vzp gmlqs q
qbumasekgmsygeru. pumsg,mgqpmlryupea.nmkgretmramZbypmAbseabj,mgqbgmlbk
h.sgpmk.yombyumnrkgw--Ypsgqpemramgqpxmgqr.dqgmv.gmramXewmOysdqgnptmbyu
gqpxkpncpkw

Qbeespg,mlqrmqbumvppymkgbyusydmsymyrm.yqbfftmepcpesp,mlbkmtpgmcpetmdnbu
grmvpm bnnpumaerxmsg,mvtmgqpmyrlmpy r.ebdsydmxbyypemramk. qmbmz.udp,mbyu
k. qmbmaespyumbkmXskkmLrruqr.kp,mbyumryntmlbygpumsycsgbgsry,mgrmdscp
gqpmqskgretmramqpemqrfpkmlsgqmdepbg,mgqr.dqmgepxvnsydmupnsdqgw--Pxxb'k
gepxvnsydkmbkmkqpmbkopu,mbyumbkmkqpmnskgpypu,mlpepmvpggpem ry pbnpumgqby
Qbeespg'k,mv.gmgqptmlpepmyrgmnpkkwmQpemcrs pmlbkmyrgm.ykgpbut;mv.gmqpe
xsyumlbkmsymbnnmgqpmfpeg.evbgsrymgqbgmk. qmbmupcpnrfxpygmramkpna,mk. q
bmv.ekgmramgqepbgpysydmpcsn,mk. qmbm rya.ksrymramk.uupymbyumfpefnpjsyd
pxrgsryk,mx.kgm epbgpw--Kqpmnskgpypumlsgqmx. qmsylbeumk.aapesyd,mv.g
lsgqmdepbgmr.glbeumfbgspy p,mgrmQbeespg'kmupgbsnw--Xpgqrus bn,mremlpnn
beebydpu,mremcpetmlpnnmupnscpepu,msgm r.numyrgmvpmpjfp gpumgrmvp;mv.gmsg
 rygbsypu,mlqpymkpfbebgpumaerxmbnnmgqpmappvnpypkkmbyumgb.grnrdtmra
gqpmybeebgsry,mbmk.vkgby pmgrmksyomqpemkfsesg--pkfp sbnntmlsgqmgqp
 reervrebgsydm se .xkgby pk,mlqs qmqpemrlymxpxretmver.dqgmsymabcr.emra
XewmOysdqgnpt'kmxrkgmsxfercpumrfsysrymramQbeespgw

Qbeespgmqbumvppym ryk sr.kmrambmusaapepy pmsymqskmvpqbcsr.empcpemksy p
gqrkpmglrmup skscpmuby pkw--Pxxbmoyplmgqbgmqpmqbu,mrymgqbgmr  bksry,
ar.yumqpemx. qmk.fpesremgrmqskmpjfp gbgsrywmAerxmgqbgmpcpysyd,mrembg
npbkgmaerxmgqpmgsxpmramXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmpy r.ebdsydmqpemgrmgqsyomramqsx,
Qbeespgmqbumvpd.ymgrmvpmkpyksvnpmramqskmgbnosydmgrmqpemx. qmxrepmgqbymqp
qbumvppym.kpumgrmur,mbyumramqskmqbcsydmsyuppumh.sgpmbmusaapepygmxbyype
grlbeukmqpe;mbmxbyypemramosyuypkkmbyumklppgypkk!--Nbggpentmkqpmqbumvppy
xrepmbyumxrepmblbepmramsgwmLqpymgqptmqbumvppymbnnmlbnosydmgrdpgqpe,
qpmqbumkrmragpym rxpmbyumlbnopumvtmqpe,mbyumgbnopumkrmcpet
upnsdqga.nnt!--Qpmkppxpumgrmlbygmgrmvpmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpewmPxxbmoyplmsg
grmqbcpmvppymcpetmx. qmgqpm bkpwmKqpmqbumragpymrvkpecpumgqpm qbydp,mgr
bnxrkgmgqpmkbxpmpjgpygw--Qbeespgmepfpbgpumpjfepkksrykmrambffervbgsry
byumfebskpmaerxmqsx--byumPxxbmapngmgqpxmgrmvpmsymgqpm nrkpkgmbdeppxpyg
lsgqmlqbgmkqpmqbumoyrlymramqskmrfsysrymramQbeespgwmQpmfebskpumqpemare
vpsydmlsgqr.gmbegmrembaap gbgsry,maremqbcsydmksxfnp,mqrypkg,mdpyper.k,
appnsydkw--Kqpmoyplmgqbgmqpmkblmk. qmep rxxpyubgsrykmsymQbeespg;mqp
qbumulpngmrymgqpxmgrmqpemxrepmgqbymry pw--X. qmgqbgmnscpumsymQbeespg'k
xpxret,mxbytmnsggnpmfbegs .nbekmramgqpmyrgs pmkqpmqbumep pscpumaerx
qsx,mbmnrro,mbmkfpp q,mbmepxrcbnmaerxmrypm qbsemgrmbyrgqpe,mbm rxfnsxpyg
sxfnspu,mbmfepapepy pmsyapeepu,mqbumvppym.yyrgs pu,mvp b.kpm.yk.kfp gpu,
vtmPxxbwm se .xkgby pkmgqbgmxsdqgmklpnnmgrmqbnambymqr.e'kmepnbgsry,
byum rygbsypumx.ngsfnspumferrakmgrmqpemlqrmqbumkppymgqpx,mqbumfbkkpu
.yusk peypumvtmqpemlqrmyrlmqpbeumgqpx;mv.gmgqpmglrmnbgpkgmr  .eepy pkmgr
vpmxpygsrypu,mgqpmglrmramkgerydpkgmferxskpmgrmQbeespg,mlpepmyrgmlsgqr.g
krxpmupdeppmramlsgypkkmaerxmPxxbmqpekpnaw--Gqpmasekg,mlbkmqskmlbnosyd
lsgqmqpembfbegmaerxmgqpmrgqpek,msymgqpmnsxp-lbnombgmUrylpnn,mlqpepmgqpt
qbumvppymlbnosydmkrxpmgsxpmvparepmPxxbm bxp,mbyumqpmqbumgbopymfbsykm(bk
kqpmlbkm rycsy pu)mgrmueblmqpemaerxmgqpmepkgmgrmqsxkpna--byumbgmasekg,
qpmqbumgbnopumgrmqpemsymbmxrepmfbegs .nbemlbtmgqbymqpmqbumpcpemuryp
vparep,msymbmcpetmfbegs .nbemlbtmsyuppu!--(Qbeespgm r.numyrgmep bnn
sgmlsgqr.gmbmvn.kqw)mQpmkppxpumgrmvpmbnxrkgmbkosydmqpe,mlqpgqpemqpe
baap gsrykmlpepmpydbdpuw--V.gmbkmkrrymbkmkqpm(XskkmLrruqr.kp)mbffpbepu
nsopntmgrmzrsymgqpx,mqpm qbydpumgqpmk.vzp g,mbyumvpdbymgbnosydmbvr.g
abexsyd:--Gqpmkp ryu,mlbkmqskmqbcsydmkbgmgbnosydmlsgqmqpemypbentmqbna
bymqr.emvparepmPxxbm bxpmvb omaerxmqpemcsksg,mgqpmcpetmnbkgmxreysydmra
qskmvpsydmbgmQbegaspnu--gqr.dq,mlqpymqpmasekgm bxpmsy,mqpmqbumkbsumgqbg
qpm r.numyrgmkgbtmascpmxsy.gpk--byumqskmqbcsydmgrnumqpe,mu.esydmgqpse
 rycpekbgsry,mgqbgmgqr.dqmqpmx.kgmdrmgrmNryury,msgmlbkmcpetmx. qmbdbsykg
qskmsy nsybgsrymgqbgmqpmnpagmqrxpmbgmbnn,mlqs qmlbkmx. qmxrepm(bk
Pxxbmapng)mgqbymqpmqbumb oyrlnpudpumgrm_qpe_wmGqpmk.fpesremupdeppmra
 ryasupy pmgrlbeukmQbeespg,mlqs qmgqskmrypmbegs npmxbeopu,mdbcpmqpe
kpcpepmfbsyw

Rymgqpmk.vzp gmramgqpmasekgmramgqpmglrm se .xkgby pk,mkqpmusu,mbagpemb
nsggnpmepanp gsry,mcpyg.epmgqpmarnnrlsydmh.pkgsrywm“Xsdqgmqpmyrg?--Sk
yrgmsgmfrkksvnp,mgqbgmlqpympyh.sesyd,mbkmtr.mgqr.dqg,msygrmgqpmkgbgpmra
tr.embaap gsryk,mqpmxsdqgmvpmbnn.usydmgrmXewmXbegsy--qpmxsdqgmqbcp
XewmXbegsy'kmsygpepkgmsymcspl?mV.gmQbeespgmepzp gpumgqpmk.kfs srymlsgq
kfsesgw

“XewmXbegsy!mYrmsyuppu!--GqpepmlbkmyrgmbmqsygmramXewmXbegsywmSmqrfpmS
oyrlmvpggpemyrl,mgqbymgrm bepmaremXewmXbegsy,mremgrmvpmk.kfp gpumramsgw”

LqpymQbeespgmqbum nrkpumqpempcsupy p,mkqpmbffpbnpumgrmqpemupbemXskk
Lrruqr.kp,mgrmkbtmlqpgqpemkqpmqbumyrgmdrrumder.yumaremqrfpw

“Smypcpemkqr.numqbcpmfepk.xpumgrmgqsyomramsgmbgmasekg,”mkbsumkqp,m“v.g
aremtr.wmTr.mgrnumxpmgrmrvkpecpmqsxm bepa.nnt,mbyumnpgmqskmvpqbcsr.e
vpmgqpme.npmramxsyp--byumkrmSmqbcpwmV.gmyrlmSmkppxmgrmappnmgqbgmSmxbt
upkpecpmqsx;mbyumgqbgmsamqpmurpkm q.kpmxp,msgmlsnnmyrgmvpmbytmgqsydmkr
cpetmlryupea.nw”

Gqpmvsggpemappnsydkmr  bksrypumvtmgqskmkfpp q,mgqpmxbytmvsggpemappnsydk,
xbupmgqpm.gxrkgmpjpegsrymyp pkkbetmrymPxxb'kmksup,mgrmpybvnpmqpemgrmkbt
rymepfnt,

“Qbeespg,mSmlsnnmryntmcpyg.epmgrmup nbep,mgqbgmXewmOysdqgnptmskmgqpmnbkg
xbymsymgqpmlrenu,mlqrmlr.numsygpygsrybnntmdscpmbytmlrxbymgqpmsupbmramqsk
appnsydmaremqpemxrepmgqbymqpmepbnntmurpkw”

Qbeespgmkppxpumepbutmgrmlrekqsfmqpemaespyumarembmkpygpy pmkr
kbgskab gret;mbyumPxxbmlbkmryntmkbcpumaerxmebfg.epkmbyumaryuypkk,mlqs q
bgmgqbgmxrxpygmlr.numqbcpmvppymuepbua.nmfpyby p,mvtmgqpmkr.yumramqpe
abgqpe'kmarrgkgpfkwmQpmlbkm rxsydmgqer.dqmgqpmqbnnwmQbeespgmlbkmgrr
x. qmbdsgbgpumgrmpy r.ygpemqsxwm“Kqpm r.numyrgm rxfrkpmqpekpna--
XewmLrruqr.kpmlr.numvpmbnbexpu--kqpmqbumvpggpemdr;”--lsgqmxrkgmepbut
py r.ebdpxpygmaerxmqpemaespyu,mgqpeparep,mkqpmfbkkpumraamgqer.dqmbyrgqpe
urre--byumgqpmxrxpygmkqpmlbkmdryp,mgqskmlbkmgqpmkfrygbypr.kmv.ekgmra
Pxxb'kmappnsydk:m“RqmDru!mgqbgmSmqbumypcpemkppymqpe!”

Gqpmepkgmramgqpmubt,mgqpmarnnrlsydmysdqg,mlpepmqbeuntmpyr.dqmaremqpe
gqr.dqgkw--Kqpmlbkmvplsnupepumbxsukgmgqpm rya.ksrymrambnnmgqbgmqbu
e.kqpumrymqpemlsgqsymgqpmnbkgmaplmqr.ekwmPcpetmxrxpygmqbumver.dqgmb
aepkqmk.efesip;mbyumpcpetmk.efesipmx.kgmvpmxbggpemramq.xsnsbgsrymgr
qpew--Qrlmgrm.yupekgbyumsgmbnn!mQrlmgrm.yupekgbyumgqpmup pfgsrykmkqpmqbu
vppymgq.kmfeb gsksydmrymqpekpna,mbyumnscsydm.yupe!--Gqpmvn.yupek,mgqp
vnsyuypkkmramqpemrlymqpbumbyumqpbeg!--kqpmkbgmkgsnn,mkqpmlbnopumbvr.g,
kqpmgespumqpemrlymerrx,mkqpmgespumgqpmkqe.vvpet--sympcpetmfnb p,mpcpet
frkg.ep,mkqpmfpe pscpumgqbgmkqpmqbumb gpumxrkgmlpbont;mgqbgmkqpmqbu
vppymsxfrkpumrymvtmrgqpekmsymbmxrkgmxregsatsydmupdepp;mgqbgmkqpmqbu
vppymsxfrksydmrymqpekpnamsymbmupdeppmtpgmxrepmxregsatsyd;mgqbgmkqp
lbkmlepg qpu,mbyumkqr.numfervbvntmasyumgqskmubtmv.gmgqpmvpdsyysydmra
lepg qpuypkkw

Grm.yupekgbyu,mgqrer.dqntm.yupekgbyumqpemrlymqpbeg,mlbkmgqpmasekg
pyupbcr.ewmGrmgqbgmfrsygmlpygmpcpetmnpsk.epmxrxpygmlqs qmqpemabgqpe'k
 nbsxkmrymqpembnnrlpu,mbyumpcpetmxrxpygmramsycrn.ygbetmbvkpy pmramxsyuw

QrlmnrydmqbumXewmOysdqgnptmvppymkrmupbemgrmqpe,mbkmpcpetmappnsyd
up nbepumqsxmyrlmgrmvp?mLqpymqbumqskmsyan.py p,mk. qmsyan.py pmvpd.y?--
Lqpymqbumqpmk.  ppupumgrmgqbgmfnb pmsymqpembaap gsry,mlqs qmAebyo
 q.e qsnnmqbumry p,marembmkqregmfpesru,mr  .fspu?--Kqpmnrropumvb o;
kqpm rxfbepumgqpmglr-- rxfbepumgqpx,mbkmgqptmqbumbnlbtkmkgrrumsymqpe
pkgsxbgsry,maerxmgqpmgsxpmramgqpmnbggpe'kmvp rxsydmoyrlymgrmqpe--byumbk
gqptmx.kgmbgmbytmgsxpmqbcpmvppym rxfbepumvtmqpe,mqbumsg--rq!mqbumsg,mvt
bytmvnpkkpumapns sgt,mr  .eepumgrmqpe,mgrmsykgsg.gpmgqpm rxfbeskryw--Kqp
kblmgqbgmgqpepmypcpemqbumvppymbmgsxpmlqpymkqpmusumyrgm ryksupemXew
Oysdqgnptmbkmsyasysgpntmgqpmk.fpesre,mremlqpymqskmepdbeumaremqpemqbumyrg
vppymsyasysgpntmgqpmxrkgmupbewmKqpmkbl,mgqbgmsymfpek.busydmqpekpna,
symaby tsyd,msymb gsydmgrmgqpm rygebet,mkqpmqbumvppympygsepntm.yupemb
upn.ksry,mgrgbnntmsdyrebygmramqpemrlymqpbeg--byu,msymkqreg,mgqbgmkqpmqbu
ypcpemepbnntm bepumaremAebyom q.e qsnnmbgmbnn!

Gqskmlbkmgqpm ry n.ksrymramgqpmasekgmkpespkmramepanp gsrywmGqskmlbk
gqpmoyrlnpudpmramqpekpna,mrymgqpmasekgmh.pkgsrymramsyh.set,mlqs q
kqpmepb qpu;mbyumlsgqr.gmvpsydmnrydmsymepb qsydmsgw--Kqpmlbkmxrkg
kreerla.nntmsyusdybyg;mbkqbxpumrampcpetmkpykbgsrymv.gmgqpmrypmepcpbnpu
grmqpe--qpembaap gsrymaremXewmOysdqgnptw--Pcpetmrgqpemfbegmramqpemxsyu
lbkmuskd.kgsydw

Lsgqmsyk.aapebvnpmcbysgtmqbumkqpmvpnspcpumqpekpnamsymgqpmkp epgmrampcpet
vrut'kmappnsydk;mlsgqm.yfbeurybvnpmbeerdby pmferfrkpumgrmbeebydpmpcpet
vrut'kmupkgsytwmKqpmlbkmfercpumgrmqbcpmvppym.yscpekbnntmxskgbopy;mbyu
kqpmqbumyrgmh.sgpmurypmyrgqsyd--aremkqpmqbumurypmxsk qspawmKqpmqbu
ver.dqgmpcsnmrymQbeespg,mrymqpekpna,mbyumkqpmgrrmx. qmapbepu,mrymXew
Oysdqgnptw--Lpepmgqskmxrkgm.yph.bnmrambnnm ryypjsrykmgrmgbopmfnb p,mry
qpemx.kgmepkgmbnnmgqpmepferb qmramqbcsydmdscpymsgmbmvpdsyysyd;maremqsk
bggb qxpyg,mkqpmx.kgmvpnspcpmgrmvpmferu. pumryntmvtmbm ryk sr.kypkkmra
Qbeespg'k;--byumpcpymlpepmgqskmyrgmgqpm bkp,mqpmlr.numypcpemqbcpmoyrly
Qbeespgmbgmbnnmv.gmaremqpemarnntw

XewmOysdqgnptmbyumQbeespgmKxsgq!--Sgmlbkmbm.ysrymgrmuskgby pmpcpet
lryupemramgqpmosyuw--Gqpmbggb qxpygmramAebyom q.e qsnnmbyumZbypmAbseabj
vp bxpm rxxryfnb p,mgqepbuvbep,mkgbnpmsymgqpm rxfbeskry,mpj sgsydmyr
k.efesip,mfepkpygsydmyrmuskfbesgt,mbaareusydmyrgqsydmgrmvpmkbsumre
gqr.dqgw--XewmOysdqgnptmbyumQbeespgmKxsgq!--K. qmbympnpcbgsrymrymqpe
ksup!mK. qmbmupvbkpxpygmrymqsk!mSgmlbkmqreesvnpmgrmPxxbmgrmgqsyomqrlmsg
x.kgmksyomqsxmsymgqpmdpypebnmrfsysry,mgrmarepkppmgqpmkxsnpk,mgqpmkyppek,
gqpmxpeesxpygmsgmlr.numferxfgmbgmqskmpjfpykp;mgqpmxregsas bgsrymbyu
uskubsymramqskmvergqpe,mgqpmgqr.kbyumsy rycpyspy pkmgrmqsxkpnaw-- r.nu
sgmvp?--Yr;msgmlbkmsxfrkksvnpwmByumtpgmsgmlbkmabe,mcpetmabe,maerx
sxfrkksvnpw--Lbkmsgmbmyplm se .xkgby pmarembmxbymramasekg-ebgpmbvsnsgspk
grmvpm bfgscbgpumvtmcpetmsyapesremfrlpek?mLbkmsgmyplmaremryp,mfpeqbfk
grrmv.ktmgrmkppo,mgrmvpmgqpmfesipmrambmdsenmlqrmlr.numkppomqsx?--Lbk
sgmyplmarembytmgqsydmsymgqskmlrenumgrmvpm.yph.bn,msy rykskgpyg,
sy ryde.r.k--remarem qby pmbyum se .xkgby pm(bkmkp ryum b.kpk)mgrmusep g
gqpmq.xbymabgp?

Rq!mqbumkqpmypcpemver.dqgmQbeespgmarelbeu!mQbumkqpmnpagmqpemlqpepmkqp
r.dqg,mbyumlqpepmqpmqbumgrnumqpemkqpmr.dqg!--Qbumkqpmyrg,mlsgqmb
arnntmlqs qmyrmgryd.pm r.numpjfepkk,mfepcpygpumqpemxbeetsydmgqp
.ypj pfgsrybvnpmtr.ydmxbymlqrmlr.numqbcpmxbupmqpemqbfftmbyumepkfp gbvnp
symgqpmnsypmramnsapmgrmlqs qmkqpmr.dqgmgrmvpnryd--bnnmlr.numqbcpmvppy
kbap;myrypmramgqskmuepbua.nmkph.pnmlr.numqbcpmvppyw

QrlmQbeespgm r.numpcpemqbcpmqbumgqpmfepk.xfgsrymgrmebskpmqpemgqr.dqgkmgr
XewmOysdqgnpt!--Qrlmkqpm r.numubepmgrmaby tmqpekpnamgqpm qrkpymramk. q
bmxbymgsnnmb g.bnntmbkk.epumramsg!--V.gmQbeespgmlbkmnpkkmq.xvnp,mqbu
aplpemk e.fnpkmgqbymarexpentw--Qpemsyapesresgt,mlqpgqpemramxsyumre
ksg.bgsry,mkppxpumnsggnpmapngw--KqpmqbumkppxpumxrepmkpyksvnpmramXew
Pngry'kmvpsydmgrmkgrrfmsymxbeetsydmqpe,mgqbymkqpmyrlmkppxpumramXew
Oysdqgnpt'kw--Bnbk!mlbkmyrgmgqbgmqpemrlymursydmgrr?mLqrmqbumvppymbg
fbsykmgrmdscpmQbeespgmyrgsrykmramkpna- rykph.py pmv.gmqpekpna?--Lqrmv.g
qpekpnamqbumgb.dqgmqpe,mgqbgmkqpmlbkmgrmpnpcbgpmqpekpnamsamfrkksvnp,
byumgqbgmqpem nbsxkmlpepmdepbgmgrmbmqsdqmlrenuntmpkgbvnskqxpyg?--Sa
Qbeespg,maerxmvpsydmq.xvnp,mlpepmderlymcbsy,msgmlbkmqpemursydmgrrw



 QBFGPEmJSS


Gsnnmyrlmgqbgmkqpmlbkmgqepbgpypumlsgqmsgkmnrkk,mPxxbmqbumypcpemoyrly
qrlmx. qmramqpemqbffsypkkmupfpyupumrymvpsydm_asekg_mlsgqmXewmOysdqgnpt,
asekgmsymsygpepkgmbyumbaap gsryw--Kbgskaspumgqbgmsgmlbkmkr,mbyumappnsyd
sgmqpemu.p,mkqpmqbumpyzrtpumsgmlsgqr.gmepanp gsry;mbyumryntmsymgqp
uepbumramvpsydmk.ffnbygpu,mar.yumqrlmsypjfepkksvntmsxfregbygmsgmqbu
vppyw--Nryd,mcpetmnryd,mkqpmapngmkqpmqbumvppymasekg;mare,mqbcsydmyr
apxbnpm ryypjsrykmramqskmrly,mgqpepmqbumvppymryntmSkbvpnnbmlqrkpm nbsxk
 r.numvpm rxfbepumlsgqmqpek,mbyumkqpmqbumbnlbtkmoyrlympjb gntmqrlmabe
qpmnrcpumbyumpkgppxpumSkbvpnnbwmKqpmqbumqpekpnamvppymasekgmlsgqmqsxmare
xbytmtpbekmfbkgwmKqpmqbumyrgmupkpecpumsg;mkqpmqbumragpymvppymypdnsdpyg
remfpecpekp,mknsdqgsydmqskmbucs p,mrempcpymlsna.nntmrffrksydmqsx,
sykpyksvnpmramqbnamqskmxpesgk,mbyumh.beepnnsydmlsgqmqsxmvp b.kpmqpmlr.nu
yrgmb oyrlnpudpmqpemabnkpmbyumsykrnpygmpkgsxbgpmramqpemrly--v.gmkgsnn,
aerxmabxsntmbggb qxpygmbyumqbvsg,mbyumgqrer.dqmpj pnnpy pmramxsyu,mqp
qbumnrcpumqpe,mbyumlbg qpumrcpemqpemaerxmbmdsen,mlsgqmbympyupbcr.emgr
sxfercpmqpe,mbyumbymbyjspgtmaremqpemursydmesdqg,mlqs qmyrmrgqpem epbg.ep
qbumbgmbnnmkqbepuwmSymkfsgpmrambnnmqpemab.ngk,mkqpmoyplmkqpmlbkmupbe
grmqsx;mxsdqgmkqpmyrgmkbt,mcpetmupbe?--Lqpymgqpmk.ddpkgsrykmramqrfp,
qrlpcpe,mlqs qmx.kgmarnnrlmqpep,mfepkpygpumgqpxkpncpk,mkqpm r.numyrg
fepk.xpmgrmsyu.ndpmgqpxwmQbeespgmKxsgqmxsdqgmgqsyomqpekpnamyrgm.ylregqt
ramvpsydmfp .nsbent,mpj n.kscpnt,mfbkksrybgpntmnrcpumvtmXewmOysdqgnptw
_Kqp_m r.numyrgwmKqpm r.numyrgmanbggpemqpekpnamlsgqmbytmsupbmra
vnsyuypkkmsymqskmbggb qxpygmgrm_qpe_wmKqpmqbumep pscpumbmcpetmep pyg
ferramramsgkmsxfbegsbnsgtw--Qrlmkqr opumqbumqpmvppymvtmqpemvpqbcsr.emgr
XskkmVbgpk!mQrlmusep gnt,mqrlmkgerydntmqbumqpmpjfepkkpumqsxkpnamgrmqpe
rymgqpmk.vzp g!--Yrgmgrrmkgerydntmaremgqpmraapy p--v.gmabe,mabemgrr
kgerydntmgrmskk.pmaerxmbytmappnsydmkragpemgqbym.fesdqgmz.kgs pmbyu
 npbe-ksdqgpumdrrulsnnw--Kqpmqbumyrmqrfp,myrgqsydmgrmupkpecpmgqpmybxp
ramqrfp,mgqbgmqpm r.numqbcpmgqbgmkregmrambaap gsrymaremqpekpnamlqs qmlbk
yrlmsymh.pkgsry;mv.gmgqpepmlbkmbmqrfpm(bgmgsxpkmbmknsdqgmryp,mbg
gsxpkmx. qmkgerydpe,)mgqbgmQbeespgmxsdqgmqbcpmup pscpumqpekpna,mbyumvp
rcpeebgsydmqskmepdbeumarem_qpe_w--Lskqmsgmkqpmx.kg,maremqskmkbop--vpmgqp
 rykph.py pmyrgqsydmgrmqpekpna,mv.gmqskmepxbsysydmksydnpmbnnmqskmnsapw
 r.numkqpmvpmkp .epmramgqbg,msyuppu,mramqskmypcpemxbeetsydmbgmbnn,mkqp
vpnspcpumkqpmkqr.numvpmfpeap gntmkbgskaspuw--Npgmqsxmv.gm rygsy.pmgqp
kbxpmXewmOysdqgnptmgrmqpembyumqpemabgqpe,mgqpmkbxpmXewmOysdqgnptmgr
bnnmgqpmlrenu;mnpgmUrylpnnmbyumQbegaspnumnrkpmyrypmramgqpsemfep sr.k
sygpe r.ekpmramaespyukqsfmbyum ryasupy p,mbyumqpemfpb pmlr.numvp
a.nntmkp .epuw--Xbeesbdp,msymab g,mlr.numyrgmurmaremqpewmSgmlr.numvp
sy rxfbgsvnpmlsgqmlqbgmkqpmrlpumgrmqpemabgqpe,mbyumlsgqmlqbgmkqpmapng
aremqsxwmYrgqsydmkqr.numkpfbebgpmqpemaerxmqpemabgqpewmKqpmlr.numyrg
xbeet,mpcpymsamkqpmlpepmbkopumvtmXewmOysdqgnptw

Sgmx.kgmvpmqpembeupygmlskqmgqbgmQbeespgmxsdqgmvpmuskbffrsygpu;mbyumkqp
qrfpu,mgqbgmlqpymbvnpmgrmkppmgqpxmgrdpgqpembdbsy,mkqpmxsdqgmbgmnpbkg
vpmbvnpmgrmbk pegbsymlqbgmgqpm qby pkmaremsgmlpepw--Kqpmkqr.numkppmgqpx
qpy parelbeumlsgqmgqpm nrkpkgmrvkpecby p;mbyumlepg qpuntmbkmkqpmqbu
qsgqpegrmxsk.yupekgrrumpcpymgqrkpmkqpmlbkmlbg qsyd,mkqpmusumyrgmoyrlmqrl
grmbuxsgmgqbgmkqpm r.numvpmvnsyupumqpepw--Qpmlbkmpjfp gpumvb ompcpet
ubtwmGqpmfrlpemramrvkpecbgsrymlr.numvpmkrrymdscpy--aesdqga.nntmkrrymsg
bffpbepumlqpymqpemgqr.dqgkmlpepmsymrypm r.ekpwmSymgqpmxpbylqsnp,mkqp
epkrncpumbdbsykgmkppsydmQbeespgw--Sgmlr.numurmypsgqpemramgqpxmdrru,
sgmlr.numurmgqpmk.vzp gmyrmdrru,mgrmvpmgbnosydmramsgmabegqpew--Kqpmlbk
epkrncpumyrgmgrmvpm rycsy pu,mbkmnrydmbkmkqpm r.numur.vg,mbyumtpgmqbu
yrmb.gqresgtmaremrffrksydmQbeespg'km ryasupy pwmGrmgbnomlr.numvpmryntmgr
seesgbgpw--Kqpmlergpmgrmqpe,mgqpeparep,mosyunt,mv.gmup skscpnt,mgrmvpd
gqbgmkqpmlr.numyrg,mbgmfepkpyg,m rxpmgrmQbegaspnu;mb oyrlnpudsydmsgmgr
vpmqpem rycs gsry,mgqbgmbnnmabegqpem ryasupygsbnmusk .kksrymram_ryp_
grfs mqbumvpggpemvpmbcrsupu;mbyumqrfsyd,mgqbgmsambmaplmubtkmlpepmbnnrlpu
grmfbkkmvparepmgqptmxpgmbdbsy,mpj pfgmsymgqpm rxfbytmramrgqpek--kqp
rvzp gpumryntmgrmbmgpgp-b-gpgp--gqptmxsdqgmvpmbvnpmgrmb gmbkmsamgqpt
qbumaredrggpymgqpm rycpekbgsrymramtpkgpeubtw--Qbeespgmk.vxsggpu,mbyu
bffercpu,mbyumlbkmdebgpa.nw

Gqskmfrsygmlbkmz.kgmbeebydpu,mlqpymbmcsksgrembeescpumgrmgpbemPxxb'k
gqr.dqgkmbmnsggnpmaerxmgqpmrypmk.vzp gmlqs qmqbumpyderkkpumgqpx,
knppfsydmremlbosyd,mgqpmnbkgmglpygt-ar.emqr.ek--XekwmLpkgry,mlqrmqbu
vppym bnnsydmrymqpemub.dqgpe-sy-nblmpnp g,mbyumgrromQbegaspnumsymqpe
lbtmqrxp,mbnxrkgmbkmx. qmsymu.gtmgrmPxxbmbkmsymfnpbk.epmgrmqpekpna,mgr
epnbgpmbnnmgqpmfbegs .nbekmramkrmsygpepkgsydmbymsygpecsplw

XewmLpkgrymqbumb  rxfbyspumqpemgrmXekwmVbgpk'k,mbyumdrypmgqer.dqmqsk
kqbepmramgqskmpkkpygsbnmbggpygsrymxrkgmqbyukrxpnt;mv.gmkqpmqbcsydmgqpy
syu. pumXskkmAbseabjmgrmzrsymqpemsymbymbsesyd,mlbkmyrlmepg.eypumlsgq
x. qmxrepmgrmkbt,mbyumx. qmxrepmgrmkbtmlsgqmkbgskab gsry,mgqbymbmh.begpe
rambymqr.emkfpygmsymXekwmVbgpk'kmfbenr.e,mlsgqmbnnmgqpmpy .xveby pmra
blolbeumappnsydk,m r.numqbcpmbaareupuw

Bmnsggnpm .esrksgtmPxxbmqbu;mbyumkqpmxbupmgqpmxrkgmramsgmlqsnpmqpe
aespyumepnbgpuwmXekwmLpkgrymqbumkpgmraamgrmfbtmgqpmcsksgmsymbmdrrumupbn
rambdsgbgsrymqpekpna;mbyumsymgqpmasekgmfnb pmqbumlskqpumyrgmgrmdrmbgmbnn
bgmfepkpyg,mgrmvpmbnnrlpumxpepntmgrmlesgpmgrmXskkmAbseabjmsykgpbu,mbyu
grmupapemgqskm pepxrysr.km bnnmgsnnmbmnsggnpmgsxpmqbumfbkkpu,mbyumXew
 q.e qsnnm r.numvpmep ry snpumgrmgqpmpydbdpxpyg'kmvp rxsydmoyrly;mbk,
 ryksupesydmpcpetmgqsyd,mkqpmgqr.dqgmk. qmbmcsksgm r.numyrgmvpmfbsu
lsgqr.gmnpbusydmgrmepfregk:--v.gmXewmLpkgrymqbumgqr.dqgmusaapepygnt;mqp
lbkmpjgepxpntmbyjsr.kmgrmkqplmqskmbffervbgsrymgrmXskkmAbseabjmbyumqpe
abxsnt,mbyumusumyrgm ry pscpmgqbgmbytmk.kfs srym r.numvpmpj sgpumvtmsg;
remsamsgmlpep,mgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmrambytm rykph.py p;marem“k. qmgqsydk,”
mqpmrvkpecpu,m“bnlbtkmdrgmbvr.gw”mPxxbmkxsnpu,mbyumapngmgqbgmXewmLpkgry
qbumcpetmdrrumepbkrymaremkbtsydmkrwmGqptmqbumdryp,msymkqreg--byumcpet
depbgmqbumvppymgqpmpcsupygmuskgepkkmbyum rya.ksrymramgqpmnbutwmKqpmqbu
qbeuntmvppymbvnpmgrmkfpbombmlreu,mbyumpcpetmnrrombyumb gsrymqbumkqply
qrlmuppfntmkqpmlbkmk.aapesydmaerxm ryk sr.kypkkwmGqpmh.spg,mqpbeg-apng
kbgskab gsrymramgqpmrnumnbut,mbyumgqpmebfg.er.kmupnsdqgmramqpe
ub.dqgpe--lqrmfercpumpcpymgrrmzrtr.kmgrmgbnombkm.k.bn,mqbumvppymb
debgsatsyd,mtpgmbnxrkgmbymbaap gsyd,mk pypwmGqptmlpepmvrgqmkrmge.nt
epkfp gbvnpmsymgqpsemqbffsypkk,mkrmusksygpepkgpumsympcpetmkpykbgsry;
gqr.dqgmkrmx. qmramZbyp;mkrmx. qmrampcpetmvrut,mbyumkrmnsggnpmra
gqpxkpncpk,mgqbgmpcpetmosyuntmappnsydmlbkmbgmlreomaremgqpxwmXskk
Abseabj'kmep pygmsnnypkkmqbumraapepumbmabsemfnpbmaremXekwmLpkgrymgr
sycsgpmqpemgrmbymbsesyd;mkqpmqbumueblymvb ombyumup nsypumbgmasekg,mv.g,
rymvpsydmfepkkpumqbumtspnupu;mbyu,msymgqpm r.ekpmramgqpsemuescp,
XekwmLpkgrymqbu,mvtmdpygnpmpy r.ebdpxpyg,mrcpe rxpmkrmx. qmramqpe
pxvbeebkkxpyg,mbkmgrmvesydmqpemgrm rycpekpmrymgqpmsxfregbygmk.vzp gw
Bfrnrdspkmaremqpemkppxsydntm.ydeb sr.kmksnpy pmsymgqpsemasekgmep pfgsry,
byumgqpmlbexpkgmpjfepkksrykmramgqpmdebgsg.upmkqpmlbkmbnlbtkmappnsyd
grlbeukmqpekpnambyumXewmLpkgry,mx.kgmyp pkkbesntmrfpymgqpm b.kp;mv.g
lqpymgqpkpmpaa.ksrykmlpepmf.gmvt,mgqptmqbumgbnopumbmdrrumupbnmramgqp
fepkpygmbyumramgqpma.g.epmkgbgpmramgqpmpydbdpxpygwmXekwmLpkgrymlbk
 rycsy pumgqbgmk. qm rycpekbgsrymx.kgmvpmgqpmdepbgpkgmepnspamgrmqpe
 rxfbysry,mfpygm.fmlsgqsymqpemrlymxsyumbkmpcpetmgqsydmqbumkrmnrydmvppy,
byumlbkmcpetmx. qmfnpbkpumlsgqmbnnmgqbgmkqpmqbumkbsumrymgqpmk.vzp gw

“Rymgqpmxskpetmramlqbgmkqpmqbumk.aapepu,mu.esydmgqpm ry pbnxpygmramkr
xbytmxrygqk,”m rygsy.pumXekwmLpkgry,m“kqpmlbkmpypedpgs wmGqskmlbkmryp
ramqpempjfepkksrykwm'Smlsnnmyrgmkbt,mgqbgmksy pmSmpygpepumsygrmgqp
pydbdpxpygmSmqbcpmyrgmqbumkrxpmqbfftmxrxpygk;mv.gmSm bymkbt,mgqbgmSmqbcp
ypcpemoyrlymgqpmvnpkksydmramrypmgebyh.snmqr.e:'--byumgqpmh.scpesydmnsf,
Pxxb,mlqs qm.ggpepumsg,mlbkmbymbggpkgbgsrymgqbgmSmapngmbgmxtmqpbegw”

“Frremdsen!”mkbsumPxxbwm“Kqpmgqsyokmqpekpnamleryd,mgqpy,maremqbcsyd
 rykpygpumgrmbmfescbgpmpydbdpxpyg?”

“Leryd!mYrmryp,mSmvpnspcp,m bymvnbxpmqpemxrepmgqbymkqpmskmuskfrkpu
grmvnbxpmqpekpnawm'Gqpm rykph.py p,'mkbsumkqp,m'qbkmvppymbmkgbgpmra
fpefpg.bnmk.aapesydmgrmxp;mbyumkrmsgmr.dqgwmV.gmbagpembnnmgqpmf.yskqxpyg
gqbgmxsk ryu. gm bymvesyd,msgmskmkgsnnmyrgmnpkkmxsk ryu. gwmFbsymskmyr
pjfsbgsrywmSmypcpem bymvpmvnbxpnpkkwmSmqbcpmvppymb gsydm rygebetmgrmbnn
xtmkpykpmramesdqg;mbyumgqpmareg.ybgpmg.eymgqbgmpcpetmgqsydmqbkmgbopy,
byumgqpmosyuypkkmSmbxmyrlmep pscsyd,mskmlqbgmxtm ryk spy pmgpnnkmxp
r.dqgmyrgmgrmvpw'm'Urmyrgmsxbdsyp,mxbubx,'mkqpm rygsy.pu,m'gqbgmSmlbk
gb.dqgmlerydwmUrmyrgmnpgmbytmepanp gsrymabnnmrymgqpmfesy sfnpkmremgqp
 bepmramgqpmaespyukmlqrmver.dqgmxpm.fwmGqpmpeeremqbkmvppymbnnmxtmrly;
byumSmurmbkk.epmtr.mgqbg,mlsgqmbnnmgqpmpj .kpmgqbgmfepkpygm se .xkgby pk
xbtmbffpbemgrmdscp,mSmkqbnnmtpgmuepbumxbosydmgqpmkgretmoyrlymgrm rnrypn
 bxfvpnnw'”

“Frremdsen!”mkbsumPxxbmbdbsywm“Kqpmnrcpkmqsxmgqpympj pkkscpnt,mS
k.ffrkpwmSgmx.kgmqbcpmvppymaerxmbggb qxpygmrynt,mgqbgmkqpm r.numvp
npumgrmarexmgqpmpydbdpxpygwmQpembaap gsrymx.kgmqbcpmrcpefrlpepumqpe
z.udxpygw”

“Tpk,mSmqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqpemvpsydmpjgepxpntmbggb qpumgrmqsxw”

“Smbxmbaebsu,”mepg.eypumPxxb,mksdqsyd,m“gqbgmSmx.kgmragpymqbcp
 rygesv.gpumgrmxbopmqpem.yqbfftw”

“Rymtr.emksup,mxtmnrcp,msgmlbkmcpetmsyyr pygntmurypwmV.gmkqp
fervbvntmqbumkrxpgqsydmramgqbgmsymqpemgqr.dqgk,mlqpymbnn.usydmgrmgqp
xsk.yupekgbyusydkmlqs qmqpmqbumdscpym.kmqsygkmramvparepwmRypmybg.ebn
 rykph.py pmramgqpmpcsnmkqpmqbumsycrncpumqpekpnamsy,”mkqpmkbsu,m“lbk
gqbgmramxbosydmqpem_.yepbkrybvnp_wmGqpm ryk sr.kypkkmramqbcsydmuryp
bxskk,mqbumpjfrkpumqpemgrmbmgqr.kbyumsyh.spg.upk,mbyumxbupmqpem bfgsr.k
byumseesgbvnpmgrmbmupdeppmgqbgmx.kgmqbcpmvppy--gqbgmqbumvppy--qbeumare
qsxmgrmvpbewm'Smusumyrgmxbopmgqpmbnnrlby pk,'mkbsumkqp,m'lqs qmSmr.dqg
grmqbcpmuryp,maremqskmgpxfpembyumkfsesgk--qskmupnsdqga.nmkfsesgk,mbyu
gqbgmdbspgt,mgqbgmfnbta.nypkkmramuskfrksgsry,mlqs q,m.yupembytmrgqpe
 se .xkgby pk,mlr.nu,mSmbxmk.ep,mqbcpmvppymbkm rykgbygntmvplsg qsydmgr
xp,mbkmgqptmlpepmbgmasekgw'mKqpmgqpymvpdbymgrmkfpbomramtr.,mbyumramgqp
depbgmosyuypkkmtr.mqbumkqplymqpemu.esydmqpemsnnypkk;mbyumlsgqmbmvn.kq
lqs qmkqplpumxpmqrlmsgmlbkmbnnm ryyp gpu,mupksepumxp,mlqpypcpemSmqbu
bymrffreg.ysgt,mgrmgqbyomtr.--Sm r.numyrgmgqbyomtr.mgrrmx. q--arempcpet
lskqmbyumpcpetmpyupbcr.emgrmurmqpemdrruwmKqpmlbkmkpyksvnpmgqbgmtr.mqbu
ypcpemep pscpumbytmferfpemb oyrlnpudxpygmaerxmqpekpnaw”

“SamSmusumyrgmoyrlmqpemgrmvpmqbfftmyrl,”mkbsumPxxb,mkpesr.knt,m“lqs q,
symkfsgpmrampcpetmnsggnpmueblvb omaerxmqpemk e.f.nr.km ryk spy p,mkqp
x.kgmvp,mSm r.numyrgmvpbemgqpkpmgqbyok;--are,mrq!mXekwmLpkgry,msamgqpep
lpepmbymb  r.ygmueblym.fmramgqpmpcsnmbyumgqpmdrrumSmqbcpmurypmXskk
Abseabj!--Lpnnm( qp osydmqpekpna,mbyumgetsydmgrmvpmxrepmnscpnt),mgqsk
skmbnnmgrmvpmaredrggpywmTr.mbepmcpetmosyumgrmvesydmxpmgqpkpmsygpepkgsyd
fbegs .nbekwmGqptmkqplmqpemgrmgqpmdepbgpkgmbucbygbdpwmSmbxmk.epmkqpmsk
cpetmdrru--SmqrfpmkqpmlsnnmvpmcpetmqbfftwmSgmskmasgmgqbgmgqpmareg.yp
kqr.numvpmrymqskmksup,maremSmgqsyomgqpmxpesgmlsnnmvpmbnnmrymqpekw”

K. qmbm ry n.ksrym r.numyrgmfbkkm.ybyklpepumvtmXekwmLpkgrywmKqpmgqr.dqg
lpnnmramAebyomsymbnxrkgmpcpetmepkfp g;mbyu,mlqbgmlbkmxrep,mkqpmnrcpumqsx
cpetmx. q,mbyumqpemupapy pmlbk,mgqpeparep,mpbeypkgwmKqpmgbnopumlsgqmb
depbgmupbnmramepbkry,mbyumbgmnpbkgmph.bnmbaap gsry--v.gmkqpmqbumgrrmx. q
grm.edpmaremPxxb'kmbggpygsry;msgmlbkmkrrymdrypmgrmVe.ykls omKh.bepmre
grmUrylpnn;mkqpmaredrgmgrmbggpxfgmgrmnskgpy;mbyumlqpymXekwmLpkgrympyupu
lsgq,m“Lpmqbcpmyrgmtpgmqbumgqpmnpggpemlpmbepmkrmbyjsr.kmare,mtr.moyrl,
v.gmSmqrfpmsgmlsnnmkrrym rxp,”mkqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmfb.kpmvparepmkqp
byklpepu,mbyumbgmnbkgmrvnsdpumgrmbyklpembgmebyurx,mvparepmkqpm r.numbg
bnnmep rnnp gmlqbgmnpggpemsgmlbkmlqs qmgqptmlpepmkrmbyjsr.kmarew

“Bepmtr.mlpnn,mxtmPxxb?”mlbkmXekwmLpkgry'kmfbegsydmh.pkgsryw

“Rq!mfpeap gntwmSmbxmbnlbtkmlpnn,mtr.moyrlwmVpmk.epmgrmdscpmxp
sygpnnsdpy pmramgqpmnpggpembkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpw”

XekwmLpkgry'km rxx.ys bgsrykma.eyskqpumPxxbmlsgqmxrepmarrumare
.yfnpbkbygmepanp gsry,mvtmsy epbksydmqpempkgppxmbyum rxfbkksry,mbyumqpe
kpykpmramfbkgmsyz.kgs pmgrlbeukmXskkmAbseabjwmKqpmvsggpentmepdepggpu
yrgmqbcsydmkr.dqgmbm nrkpemb h.bsygby pmlsgqmqpe,mbyumvn.kqpumaremgqp
pycsr.kmappnsydkmlqs qmqbum pegbsyntmvppy,msymkrxpmxpbk.ep,mgqpm b.kpw
QbumkqpmarnnrlpumXewmOysdqgnpt'kmoyrlymlskqpk,msymfbtsydmgqbgmbggpygsry
grmXskkmAbseabj,mlqs qmlbkmpcpetmlbtmqpemu.p;mqbumkqpmgespumgrmoyrlmqpe
vpggpe;mqbumkqpmurypmqpemfbegmgrlbeukmsygsxb t;mqbumkqpmpyupbcr.epu
grmasyumbmaespyumgqpepmsykgpbumramsymQbeespgmKxsgq;mkqpmx.kg,msymbnn
fervbvsnsgt,mqbcpmvppymkfbepumaerxmpcpetmfbsymlqs qmfepkkpumrymqpe
yrlw--Vsegq,mbvsnsgspk,mbyumpu. bgsry,mqbumvppymph.bnntmxbeosydmrypmbk
bymbkkr sbgpmaremqpe,mgrmvpmep pscpumlsgqmdebgsg.up;mbyumgqpmrgqpe--lqbg
lbkmkqp?--K.ffrksydmpcpymgqbgmgqptmqbumypcpemvp rxpmsygsxbgpmaespyuk;
gqbgmkqpmqbumypcpemvppymbuxsggpumsygrmXskkmAbseabj'km ryasupy pmrymgqsk
sxfregbygmxbggpe--lqs qmlbkmxrkgmfervbvnp--kgsnn,msymoyrlsydmqpembk
kqpmr.dqg,mbyumbkmkqpmxsdqg,mkqpmx.kgmqbcpmvppymfepkpecpumaerxmgqp
bvrxsybvnpmk.kfs srykmrambymsxferfpembggb qxpygmgrmXewmUsjry,mlqs qmkqp
qbumyrgmryntmkrmarrnskqntmabkqsrypumbyumqbevr.epumqpekpna,mv.gmqbumkr
.yfbeurybvntmsxfbegpu;mbymsupbmlqs qmkqpmdepbgntmapbepumqbumvppymxbupmb
k.vzp gmramxbgpesbnmuskgepkkmgrmgqpmupns b tmramZbyp'kmappnsydk,mvtmgqp
npcsgtmrem bepnpkkypkkmramAebyom q.e qsnn'kwmRambnnmgqpmkr.e pkmrampcsn
k.eer.yusydmgqpmarexpe,mksy pmqpem rxsydmgrmQsdqv.et,mkqpmlbkmfpek.bupu
gqbgmkqpmx.kgmqpekpnamqbcpmvppymgqpmlrekgwmKqpmx.kgmqbcpmvppymb
fpefpg.bnmpypxtwmGqptmypcpem r.numqbcpmvppymbnnmgqeppmgrdpgqpe,mlsgqr.g
qpemqbcsydmkgbvvpumZbypmAbseabj'kmfpb pmsymbmgqr.kbyumsykgby pk;mbyumry
VrjmQsnn,mfpeqbfk,msgmqbumvppymgqpmbdrytmrambmxsyumgqbgmlr.numvpbemyr
xrepw

Gqpmpcpysydmramgqskmubtmlbkmcpetmnryd,mbyumxpnby qrnt,mbgmQbegaspnuw
Gqpmlpbgqpembuupumlqbgmsgm r.numramdnrrxwmBm rnumkgrextmebsymkpgmsy,mbyu
yrgqsydmramZ.ntmbffpbepumv.gmsymgqpmgeppkmbyumkqe.vk,mlqs qmgqpmlsyumlbk
upkfrsnsyd,mbyumgqpmnpydgqmramgqpmubt,mlqs qmryntmxbupmk. qm e.pnmksdqgk
gqpmnrydpemcsksvnpw

Gqpmlpbgqpembaap gpumXewmLrruqr.kp,mbyumqpm r.numryntmvpmopfgmgrnpebvnt
 rxaregbvnpmvtmbnxrkgm pbkpnpkkmbggpygsrymrymqskmub.dqgpe'kmksup,mbyumvt
pjpegsrykmlqs qmqbumypcpem rkgmqpemqbnamkrmx. qmvparepwmSgmepxsyupu
qpemramgqpsemasekgmarenreymgpgp-b-gpgp,mrymgqpmpcpysydmramXekwmLpkgry'k
lpuusyd-ubt;mv.gmXewmOysdqgnptmqbumlbnopumsymgqpy,mkrrymbagpemgpb,
byumuskksfbgpumpcpetmxpnby qrntmaby twmBnbk!mk. qmupnsdqga.nmferrakmra
Qbegaspnu'kmbggeb gsry,mbkmgqrkpmkregmramcsksgkm rycptpu,mxsdqgmkqregnt
vpmrcpewmGqpmfs g.epmlqs qmkqpmqbumgqpymueblymramgqpmfescbgsrykmramgqp
bfferb qsydmlsygpe,mqbumfercpumpeerypr.k;myrmaespyukmqbumupkpegpumgqpx,
yrmfnpbk.epkmqbumvppymnrkgw--V.gmqpemfepkpygmarepvrusydkmkqpmapbepu
lr.numpjfpespy pmyrmksxsnbem rygebus gsrywmGqpmferkfp gmvparepmqpemyrl,
lbkmgqepbgpysydmgrmbmupdeppmgqbgm r.numyrgmvpmpygsepntmuskfpnnpu--gqbg
xsdqgmyrgmvpmpcpymfbegsbnntmvesdqgpypuwmSambnnmgrromfnb pmgqbg
xsdqgmgbopmfnb pmbxrydmgqpm se npmramqpemaespyuk,mQbegaspnumx.kgmvp
 rxfbebgscpntmupkpegpu;mbyumkqpmnpagmgrm qppemqpemabgqpemlsgqmgqp
kfsesgkmryntmrame.sypumqbffsypkkw

Gqpm qsnumgrmvpmvreymbgmEbyubnnkmx.kgmvpmbmgspmgqpepmpcpymupbepemgqby
qpekpna;mbyumXekwmLpkgry'kmqpbegmbyumgsxpmlr.numvpmr  .fspumvtmsgw
Gqptmkqr.numnrkpmqpe;mbyu,mfervbvnt,msymdepbgmxpbk.ep,mqpemq.kvbyu
bnkrw--Aebyom q.e qsnnmlr.numepg.eymbxrydmgqpxmyrmxrep;mbyumXskk
Abseabj,msgmlbkmepbkrybvnpmgrmk.ffrkp,mlr.numkrrym pbkpmgrmvpnrydmgr
Qsdqv.etwmGqptmlr.numvpmxbeespu,mbyumkpggnpumpsgqpembgmremypbemPyk rxvpw
Bnnmgqbgmlpepmdrrumlr.numvpmlsgquebly;mbyumsamgrmgqpkpmnrkkpk,mgqp
nrkkmramUrylpnnmlpepmgrmvpmbuupu,mlqbgmlr.numepxbsymram qppea.nmre
ramebgsrybnmkr spgtmlsgqsymgqpsemepb q?mXewmOysdqgnptmgrmvpmyrmnrydpe
 rxsydmgqpepmaremqskmpcpysydm rxareg!--Yrmnrydpemlbnosydmsymbgmbnn
qr.ek,mbkmsampcpemlsnnsydmgrm qbydpmqskmrlymqrxpmaremgqpse'k!--Qrlmlbk
sgmgrmvpmpyu.epu?mByumsamqpmlpepmgrmvpmnrkgmgrmgqpxmaremQbeespg'kmkbop;
samqpmlpepmgrmvpmgqr.dqgmramqpepbagpe,mbkmasyusydmsymQbeespg'kmkr spgt
bnnmgqbgmqpmlbygpu;msamQbeespgmlpepmgrmvpmgqpm qrkpy,mgqpmasekg,
gqpmupbepkg,mgqpmaespyu,mgqpmlsapmgrmlqrxmqpmnrropumarembnnmgqpmvpkg
vnpkksydkmrampjskgpy p;mlqbgm r.numvpmsy epbksydmPxxb'kmlepg qpuypkkmv.g
gqpmepanp gsrymypcpemabemuskgbygmaerxmqpemxsyu,mgqbgmsgmqbumvppymbnnmqpe
rlymlreo?

Lqpymsgm bxpmgrmk. qmbmfsg qmbkmgqsk,mkqpmlbkmyrgmbvnpmgrmepaebsymaerx
bmkgbeg,mrembmqpbctmksdq,mrempcpymaerxmlbnosydmbvr.gmgqpmerrxmaremb
aplmkp ryuk--byumgqpmryntmkr.e pmlqpy pmbytmgqsydmnsopm rykrnbgsry
rem rxfrk.epm r.numvpmuebly,mlbkmsymgqpmepkrn.gsrymramqpemrlymvpggpe
 ryu. g,mbyumgqpmqrfpmgqbg,mqrlpcpemsyapesremsymkfsesgmbyumdbspgtmxsdqg
vpmgqpmarnnrlsydmbyumpcpetma.g.epmlsygpemramqpemnsapmgrmgqpmfbkg,msg
lr.numtpgmasyumqpemxrepmebgsrybn,mxrepmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpekpna,mbyu
npbcpmqpemnpkkmgrmepdepgmlqpymsgmlpepmdrypw



 QBFGPEmJSSS


Gqpmlpbgqpem rygsy.pumx. qmgqpmkbxpmbnnmgqpmarnnrlsydmxreysyd;mbyu
gqpmkbxpmnrypnsypkk,mbyumgqpmkbxpmxpnby qrnt,mkppxpumgrmepsdymbg
Qbegaspnu--v.gmsymgqpmbagpeyrrymsgm npbepu;mgqpmlsyum qbydpumsygrmb
kragpemh.begpe;mgqpm nr.ukmlpepm beespumraa;mgqpmk.ymbffpbepu;msgmlbk
k.xxpembdbsywmLsgqmbnnmgqpmpbdpeypkkmlqs qmk. qmbmgebyksgsrymdscpk,mPxxb
epkrncpumgrmvpmr.gmramurrekmbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnpwmYpcpemqbumgqpmpjh.sksgp
ksdqg,mkxpnn,mkpykbgsrymramybg.ep,mgebyh.sn,mlbex,mbyumvesnnsbygmbagpe
bmkgrex,mvppymxrepmbggeb gscpmgrmqpewmKqpmnrydpumaremgqpmkpepysgtmgqpt
xsdqgmdebu.bnntmsygeru. p;mbyumrymXewmFpeet'km rxsydmsymkrrymbagpe
usyype,mlsgqmbmuskpydbdpumqr.emgrmdscpmqpemabgqpe,mkqpmnrkgmyrmgsxp
symq.eetsydmsygrmgqpmkqe.vvpetw--Gqpep,mlsgqmkfsesgkmaepkqpypu,mbyu
gqr.dqgkmbmnsggnpmepnspcpu,mkqpmqbumgbopymbmaplmg.eyk,mlqpymkqpmkblmXew
Oysdqgnptmfbkksydmgqer.dqmgqpmdbeupymurre,mbyum rxsydmgrlbeukmqpew--Sg
lbkmgqpmasekgmsygsxbgsrymramqskmvpsydmepg.eypumaerxmNryurywmKqpmqbu
vppymgqsyosydmramqsxmgqpmxrxpygmvparep,mbkm.yh.pkgsrybvntmksjgppymxsnpk
uskgbygw--Gqpepmlbkmgsxpmryntmaremgqpmh.s opkgmbeebydpxpygmramxsyuwmKqp
x.kgmvpm rnnp gpumbyum bnxwmSymqbnambmxsy.gpmgqptmlpepmgrdpgqpewmGqp
“Qrlmu'tpmur'k”mlpepmh.spgmbyum rykgebsypumrympb qmksupwmKqpmbkopumbagpe
gqpsemx.g.bnmaespyuk;mgqptmlpepmbnnmlpnnw--Lqpymqbumqpmnpagmgqpx?--Rynt
gqbgmxreysydwmQpmx.kgmqbcpmqbumbmlpgmesupw--Tpkw--Qpmxpbygmgrmlbnomlsgq
qpe,mkqpmar.yuwm“Qpmqbumz.kgmnrropumsygrmgqpmusysyd-errx,mbyumbkmqpmlbk
yrgmlbygpumgqpep,mfepapeepumvpsydmr.gmramurrekw”--Kqpmgqr.dqgmqpmypsgqpe
nrropumyremkfropm qppea.nnt;mbyumgqpmasekgmfrkksvnpm b.kpmaremsg,
k.ddpkgpumvtmqpemapbek,mlbk,mgqbgmqpmqbumfpeqbfkmvppym rxx.ys bgsydmqsk
fnbykmgrmqskmvergqpe,mbyumlbkmfbsypumvtmgqpmxbyypemsymlqs qmgqptmqbu
vppymep pscpuw

GqptmlbnopumgrdpgqpewmQpmlbkmksnpygwmKqpmgqr.dqgmqpmlbkmragpymnrrosyd
bgmqpe,mbyumgetsydmarembma.nnpemcsplmramqpemab pmgqbymsgmk.sgpumqpemgr
dscpwmByumgqskmvpnspamferu. pumbyrgqpemuepbuwmFpeqbfkmqpmlbygpumgr
kfpbomgrmqpe,mramqskmbggb qxpygmgrmQbeespg;mqpmxsdqgmvpmlbg qsydmare
py r.ebdpxpygmgrmvpdsyw--Kqpmusumyrg,m r.numyrg,mappnmph.bnmgrmnpbumgqp
lbtmgrmbytmk. qmk.vzp gwmQpmx.kgmurmsgmbnnmqsxkpnawmTpgmkqpm r.nu
yrgmvpbemgqskmksnpy pwmLsgqmqsxmsgmlbkmxrkgm.yybg.ebnwmKqp
 ryksupepu--epkrncpu--byu,mgetsydmgrmkxsnp,mvpdby--

“Tr.mqbcpmkrxpmyplkmgrmqpbe,myrlmtr.mbepm rxpmvb o,mgqbgmlsnnmebgqpe
k.efesipmtr.w”

“QbcpmS?”mkbsumqpmh.spgnt,mbyumnrrosydmbgmqpe;m“ramlqbgmybg.ep?”

“Rq!mgqpmvpkgmybg.epmsymgqpmlrenu--bmlpuusydw”

Bagpemlbsgsydmbmxrxpyg,mbkmsamgrmvpmk.epmkqpmsygpyupumgrmkbtmyrmxrep,mqp
epfnspu,

“Samtr.mxpbymXskkmAbseabjmbyumAebyom q.e qsnn,mSmqbcpmqpbeumgqbg
bnepbutw”

“Qrlmskmsgmfrkksvnp?”m espumPxxb,mg.eysydmqpemdnrlsydm qppokmgrlbeuk
qsx;mare,mlqsnpmkqpmkfrop,msgmr  .eepumgrmqpemgqbgmqpmxsdqgmqbcpm bnnpu
bgmXekwmDruubeu'kmsymqskmlbtw

“Smqbumbmaplmnsypkmrymfbeskqmv.ksypkkmaerxmXewmLpkgrymgqskmxreysyd,mbyu
bgmgqpmpyumramgqpxmqpmdbcpmxpmbmvespamb  r.ygmramlqbgmqbumqbffpypuw”

Pxxbmlbkmh.sgpmepnspcpu,mbyum r.numfepkpygntmkbt,mlsgqmbmnsggnpmxrep
 rxfrk.ep,

“_Tr._mfervbvntmqbcpmvppymnpkkmk.efesipumgqbymbytmram.k,maremtr.mqbcp
qbumtr.emk.kfs srykw--Smqbcpmyrgmaredrggpymgqbgmtr.mry pmgespumgrmdscp
xpmbm b.gsryw--SmlskqmSmqbumbggpyupumgrmsg--v.g--(lsgqmbmksyosydmcrs p
byumbmqpbctmksdq)mSmkppxmgrmqbcpmvppymurrxpumgrmvnsyuypkkw”

Arembmxrxpygmremglrmyrgqsydmlbkmkbsu,mbyumkqpmlbkm.yk.kfs sr.kmramqbcsyd
pj sgpumbytmfbegs .nbemsygpepkg,mgsnnmkqpmar.yumqpembexmueblymlsgqsy
qsk,mbyumfepkkpumbdbsykgmqskmqpbeg,mbyumqpbeumqsxmgq.kmkbtsyd,msymbmgryp
ramdepbgmkpyksvsnsgt,mkfpbosydmnrl,

“Gsxp,mxtmupbepkgmPxxb,mgsxpmlsnnmqpbnmgqpmlr.yuw--Tr.emrlympj pnnpyg
kpykp--tr.empjpegsrykmaremtr.emabgqpe'kmkbop--Smoyrlmtr.mlsnnmyrgmbnnrl
tr.ekpna--w”mQpembexmlbkmfepkkpumbdbsy,mbkmqpmbuupu,msymbmxrep
veropymbyumk.vu.pumb  pyg,m“Gqpmappnsydkmramgqpmlbexpkg
aespyukqsf--Syusdybgsry--Bvrxsybvnpmk r.yuepn!”--Byumsymbmnr.upe,
kgpbuspemgryp,mqpm ry n.upumlsgq,m“QpmlsnnmkrrymvpmdrypwmGqptmlsnnmkrry
vpmsymTreokqsepwmSmbxmkreetmarem_qpe_wmKqpmupkpecpkmbmvpggpemabgpw”

Pxxbm.yupekgrrumqsx;mbyumbkmkrrymbkmkqpm r.numep rcpemaerxmgqpman.ggpe
ramfnpbk.ep,mpj sgpumvtmk. qmgpyupem ryksupebgsry,mepfnspu,

“Tr.mbepmcpetmosyu--v.gmtr.mbepmxskgbopy--byumSmx.kgmkpgmtr.mesdqgw--
Smbxmyrgmsymlbygmramgqbgmkregmram rxfbkksrywmXtmvnsyuypkkmgrmlqbgmlbk
drsydmry,mnpumxpmgrmb gmvtmgqpxmsymbmlbtmgqbgmSmx.kgmbnlbtkmvpmbkqbxpu
ra,mbyumSmlbkmcpetmarrnskqntmgpxfgpumgrmkbtmbyumurmxbytmgqsydkmlqs qmxbt
lpnnmnbtmxpmrfpymgrm.yfnpbkbygm ryzp g.epk,mv.gmSmqbcpmyrmrgqpemepbkry
grmepdepgmgqbgmSmlbkmyrgmsymgqpmkp epgmpbenspew”

“Pxxb!”m espumqp,mnrrosydmpbdpentmbgmqpe,m“bepmtr.,msyuppu?”--v.g
 qp osydmqsxkpna--“Yr,myr,mSm.yupekgbyumtr.--aredscpmxp--Smbxmfnpbkpu
gqbgmtr.m bymkbtmpcpymkrmx. qw--Qpmskmyrmrvzp gmramepdepg,msyuppu!mbyu
sgmlsnnmyrgmvpmcpetmnryd,mSmqrfp,mvparepmgqbgmvp rxpkmgqpmb oyrlnpudxpyg
ramxrepmgqbymtr.emepbkryw--Areg.ybgpmgqbgmtr.embaap gsrykmlpepmyrg
abegqpempygbydnpu!--Sm r.numypcpe,mSm ryapkk,maerxmtr.emxbyypek,mbkk.ep
xtkpnambkmgrmgqpmupdeppmramlqbgmtr.mapng--Sm r.numryntmvpm pegbsymgqbg
gqpepmlbkmbmfepapepy p--byumbmfepapepy pmlqs qmSmypcpemvpnspcpumqsxmgr
upkpecpw--Qpmskmbmuskdeb pmgrmgqpmybxpmramxbyw--Byumskmqpmgrmvpmeplbeupu
lsgqmgqbgmklppgmtr.ydmlrxby?--Zbyp,mZbyp,mtr.mlsnnmvpmbmxskpebvnp
 epbg.epw”

“XewmOysdqgnpt,”mkbsumPxxb,mgetsydmgrmvpmnscpnt,mv.gmepbnntm rya.kpu--“S
bxmsymbmcpetmpjgebreusybetmksg.bgsrywmSm byyrgmnpgmtr.m rygsy.pmsymtr.e
peere;mbyumtpg,mfpeqbfk,mksy pmxtmxbyypekmdbcpmk. qmbymsxfepkksry,mS
qbcpmbkmx. qmepbkrymgrmvpmbkqbxpumram ryapkksydmgqbgmSmypcpemqbcpmvppy
bgmbnnmbggb qpumgrmgqpmfpekrymlpmbepmkfpbosydmra,mbkmsgmxsdqgmvpmybg.ebn
arembmlrxbymgrmappnmsym ryapkksydmpjb gntmgqpmepcpekpw--V.gmSmypcpe
qbcpw”

Qpmnskgpypumsymfpeap gmksnpy pwmKqpmlskqpumqsxmgrmkfpbo,mv.gmqpmlr.nu
yrgwmKqpmk.ffrkpumkqpmx.kgmkbtmxrepmvparepmkqpmlpepmpygsgnpumgrmqsk
 npxpy t;mv.gmsgmlbkmbmqbeum bkpmgrmvpmrvnsdpumkgsnnmgrmnrlpemqpekpnamsy
qskmrfsysrywmKqpmlpygmry,mqrlpcpew

“Smqbcpmcpetmnsggnpmgrmkbtmaremxtmrlym ryu. gw--Smlbkmgpxfgpumvtmqsk
bggpygsryk,mbyumbnnrlpumxtkpnamgrmbffpbemfnpbkpuw--Bymrnumkgret,
fervbvnt--bm rxxrym bkp--byumyrmxrepmgqbymqbkmqbffpypumgrmq.yuepukmramxt
kpjmvparep;mbyumtpgmsgmxbtmyrgmvpmgqpmxrepmpj .kbvnpmsymrypmlqrmkpgkm.f
bkmSmurmarem.yupekgbyusydwmXbytm se .xkgby pkmbkkskgpumgqpmgpxfgbgsryw
QpmlbkmgqpmkrymramXewmLpkgry--qpmlbkm rygsy.bnntmqpep--Smbnlbtkmar.yu
qsxmcpetmfnpbkbyg--byu,msymkqreg,marem(lsgqmbmksdq)mnpgmxpmklpnnmr.gmgqp
 b.kpkmpcpemkrmsydpysr.knt,mgqptmbnnm pygepmsymgqskmbgmnbkg--xtmcbysgt
lbkmanbggpepu,mbyumSmbnnrlpumqskmbggpygsrykwmNbggpent,mqrlpcpe--aremkrxp
gsxp,msyuppu--Smqbcpmqbumyrmsupbmramgqpsemxpbysydmbytmgqsydw--Smgqr.dqg
gqpxmbmqbvsg,mbmges o,myrgqsydmgqbgm bnnpumaremkpesr.kypkkmrymxtmksupw
Qpmqbkmsxfrkpumrymxp,mv.gmqpmqbkmyrgmsyz.epumxpwmSmqbcpmypcpemvppy
bggb qpumgrmqsxwmByumyrlmSm bymgrnpebvntm rxfepqpyumqskmvpqbcsr.ewmQp
ypcpemlskqpumgrmbggb qmxpwmSgmlbkmxpepntmbmvnsyumgrm ry pbnmqskmepbn
ksg.bgsrymlsgqmbyrgqpew--Sgmlbkmqskmrvzp gmgrmvnsyumbnnmbvr.gmqsx;mbyu
yrmryp,mSmbxmk.ep,m r.numvpmxrepmpaap g.bnntmvnsyupumgqbymxtkpna--pj pfg
gqbgmSmlbkm_yrg_mvnsyupu--gqbgmsgmlbkmxtmdrrumareg.yp--gqbg,msymkqreg,mS
lbkmkrxpqrlmremrgqpemkbapmaerxmqsxw”

Kqpmqbumqrfpumarembymbyklpemqpep--arembmaplmlreukmgrmkbtmgqbgmqpe
 ryu. gmlbkmbgmnpbkgmsygpnnsdsvnp;mv.gmqpmlbkmksnpyg;mbyu,mbkmabembkmkqp
 r.numz.udp,muppfmsymgqr.dqgwmBgmnbkg,mbyumgrnpebvntmsymqskm.k.bnmgryp,
qpmkbsu,

“SmqbcpmypcpemqbumbmqsdqmrfsysrymramAebyom q.e qsnnw--Sm bymk.ffrkp,
qrlpcpe,mgqbgmSmxbtmqbcpm.yupeebgpumqsxwmXtmb h.bsygby pmlsgqmqsxmqbk
vppymv.gmgesansydw--ByumpcpymsamSmqbcpmyrgm.yupeebgpumqsxmqsgqpegr,mqp
xbtmtpgmg.eymr.gmlpnnw--Lsgqmk. qmbmlrxbymqpmqbkmbm qby pw--Smqbcpmyr
xrgscpmaremlskqsydmqsxmsnn--byumaremqpemkbop,mlqrkpmqbffsypkkmlsnnmvp
sycrncpumsymqskmdrrum qbeb gpembyum ryu. g,mSmkqbnnm pegbsyntmlskqmqsx
lpnnw”

“Smqbcpmyrmur.vgmramgqpsemvpsydmqbfftmgrdpgqpe,”mkbsumPxxb;m“Smvpnspcp
gqpxmgrmvpmcpetmx.g.bnntmbyumcpetmksy pepntmbggb qpuw”

“Qpmskmbmxrkgmareg.ybgpmxby!”mepg.eypumXewmOysdqgnpt,mlsgqmpypedtwm“Kr
pbentmsymnsap--bgmgqepp-byu-glpygt--bmfpesrumlqpy,msambmxbym q.kpkmb
lsap,mqpmdpypebnntm q.kpkmsnnwmBgmgqepp-byu-glpygtmgrmqbcpmueblymk. q
bmfesip!mLqbgmtpbekmramapns sgtmgqbgmxby,msymbnnmq.xbym bn .nbgsry,
qbkmvparepmqsx!--Bkk.epumramgqpmnrcpmramk. qmbmlrxby--gqpmusksygpepkgpu
nrcp,maremZbypmAbseabj'km qbeb gpemcr. qpkmaremqpemusksygpepkgpuypkk;
pcpetmgqsydmsymqskmabcr.e,--ph.bnsgtmramksg.bgsry--Smxpby,mbkmabembk
epdbeukmkr spgt,mbyumbnnmgqpmqbvsgkmbyumxbyypekmgqbgmbepmsxfregbyg;
ph.bnsgtmsympcpetmfrsygmv.gmryp--byumgqbgmryp,mksy pmgqpmf.esgtmramqpe
qpbegmskmyrgmgrmvpmur.vgpu,mk. qmbkmx.kgmsy epbkpmqskmapns sgt,maremsg
lsnnmvpmqskmgrmvpkgrlmgqpmryntmbucbygbdpkmkqpmlbygkw--Bmxbymlr.numbnlbtk
lskqmgrmdscpmbmlrxbymbmvpggpemqrxpmgqbymgqpmrypmqpmgbopkmqpemaerx;
byumqpmlqrm bymurmsg,mlqpepmgqpepmskmyrmur.vgmram_qpe_mepdbeu,mx.kg,
Smgqsyo,mvpmgqpmqbffspkgmramxregbnkw--Aebyom q.e qsnnmsk,msyuppu,mgqp
abcr.esgpmramareg.ypwmPcpetmgqsydmg.eykmr.gmaremqskmdrruw--Qpmxppgk
lsgqmbmtr.ydmlrxbymbgmbmlbgpesyd-fnb p,mdbsykmqpembaap gsry,m byyrgmpcpy
lpbetmqpemvtmypdnsdpygmgepbgxpyg--byumqbumqpmbyumbnnmqskmabxsntmkr.dqg
er.yumgqpmlrenumarembmfpeap gmlsapmaremqsx,mgqptm r.numyrgmqbcpmar.yu
qpemk.fpesrew--Qskmb.ygmskmsymgqpmlbtw--Qskmb.ygmuspkw--Qpmqbkmryntmgr
kfpbow--Qskmaespyukmbepmpbdpemgrmferxrgpmqskmqbffsypkkw--Qpmqbum.kpu
pcpetmvrutmsnn--byumgqptmbepmbnnmupnsdqgpumgrmaredscpmqsxw--Qpmskmb
areg.ybgpmxbymsyuppu!”

“Tr.mkfpbombkmsamtr.mpycspumqsxw”

“ByumSmurmpyctmqsx,mPxxbwmSymrypmepkfp gmqpmskmgqpmrvzp gmramxtmpyctw”

Pxxbm r.numkbtmyrmxrepwmGqptmkppxpumgrmvpmlsgqsymqbnambmkpygpy p
ramQbeespg,mbyumqpemsxxpusbgpmappnsydmlbkmgrmbcpegmgqpmk.vzp g,msa
frkksvnpwmKqpmxbupmqpemfnby;mkqpmlr.numkfpbomramkrxpgqsydmgrgbnnt
usaapepyg--gqpm qsnuepymsymVe.ykls omKh.bep;mbyumkqpmryntmlbsgpumare
vepbgqmgrmvpdsy,mlqpymXewmOysdqgnptmkgbegnpumqpe,mvtmkbtsyd,

“Tr.mlsnnmyrgmbkomxpmlqbgmskmgqpmfrsygmrampyctw--Tr.mbepmupgpexsypu,mS
kpp,mgrmqbcpmyrm .esrksgtw--Tr.mbepmlskp--v.gm_S_m byyrgmvpmlskpwmPxxb,
Smx.kgmgpnnmtr.mlqbgmtr.mlsnnmyrgmbko,mgqr.dqmSmxbtmlskqmsgm.ykbsumgqp
ypjgmxrxpygw”

“Rq!mgqpy,mury'gmkfpbomsg,mury'gmkfpbomsg,”mkqpmpbdpentm espuwm“Gbopmb
nsggnpmgsxp,m ryksupe,murmyrgm rxxsgmtr.ekpnaw”

“Gqbyomtr.,”mkbsumqp,msymbymb  pygmramuppfmxregsas bgsry,mbyumyrg
byrgqpemktnnbvnpmarnnrlpuw

Pxxbm r.numyrgmvpbemgrmdscpmqsxmfbsywmQpmlbkmlskqsydmgrm ryasupmsy
qpe--fpeqbfkmgrm ryk.ngmqpe;-- rkgmqpemlqbgmsgmlr.nu,mkqpmlr.numnskgpyw
Kqpmxsdqgmbkkskgmqskmepkrn.gsry,mremep ry snpmqsxmgrmsg;mkqpmxsdqgmdscp
z.kgmfebskpmgrmQbeespg,mre,mvtmepfepkpygsydmgrmqsxmqskmrlymsyupfpyupy p,
epnspcpmqsxmaerxmgqbgmkgbgpmramsyup sksry,mlqs qmx.kgmvpmxrep
sygrnpebvnpmgqbymbytmbngpeybgscpmgrmk. qmbmxsyumbkmqskw--Gqptmqbu
epb qpumgqpmqr.kpw

“Tr.mbepmdrsydmsy,mSmk.ffrkp?”mkbsumqpw

“Yr,”--epfnspumPxxb--h.sgpm ryasexpumvtmgqpmupfepkkpumxbyypemsymlqs q
qpmkgsnnmkfrop--“Smkqr.numnsopmgrmgbopmbyrgqpemg.eywmXewmFpeetmskmyrg
drypw”mByu,mbagpemfer ppusydmbmaplmkgpfk,mkqpmbuupu--“Smkgrffpumtr.
.ydeb sr.knt,mz.kgmyrl,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbyu,mSmbxmbaebsu,mdbcpmtr.
fbsyw--V.gmsamtr.mqbcpmbytmlskqmgrmkfpbomrfpyntmgrmxpmbkmbmaespyu,mre
grmbkomxtmrfsysrymrambytmgqsydmgqbgmtr.mxbtmqbcpmsym rygpxfnbgsry--bk
bmaespyu,msyuppu,mtr.mxbtm rxxbyumxpw--Smlsnnmqpbemlqbgpcpemtr.mnsopwmS
lsnnmgpnnmtr.mpjb gntmlqbgmSmgqsyow”

“Bkmbmaespyu!”--epfpbgpumXewmOysdqgnptw--“Pxxb,mgqbgmSmapbemskmb
lreu--Yr,mSmqbcpmyrmlskq--Kgbt,mtpk,mlqtmkqr.numSmqpksgbgp?--S
qbcpmdrypmgrrmabembnepbutmarem ry pbnxpygw--Pxxb,mSmb  pfgmtr.e
raape--Pjgebreusybetmbkmsgmxbtmkppx,mSmb  pfgmsg,mbyumepapemxtkpnamgr
tr.mbkmbmaespyuw--Gpnnmxp,mgqpy,mqbcpmSmyrm qby pmrampcpemk.  ppusyd?”

Qpmkgrffpumsymqskmpbeypkgypkkmgrmnrromgqpmh.pkgsry,mbyumgqpmpjfepkksry
ramqskmptpkmrcpefrlpepumqpew

“XtmupbepkgmPxxb,”mkbsumqp,m“aremupbepkgmtr.mlsnnmbnlbtkmvp,mlqbgpcpe
gqpmpcpygmramgqskmqr.e'km rycpekbgsry,mxtmupbepkg,mxrkgmvpnrcpu
Pxxb--gpnnmxpmbgmry pwmKbtm'Yr,'msamsgmskmgrmvpmkbsuw”--Kqpm r.nu
epbnntmkbtmyrgqsydw--“Tr.mbepmksnpyg,”mqpm espu,mlsgqmdepbgmbysxbgsry;
“bvkrn.gpntmksnpyg!mbgmfepkpygmSmbkomyrmxrepw”

Pxxbmlbkmbnxrkgmepbutmgrmksyom.yupemgqpmbdsgbgsrymramgqskmxrxpygwmGqp
uepbumramvpsydmblbopypumaerxmgqpmqbffspkgmuepbx,mlbkmfpeqbfkmgqpmxrkg
ferxsypygmappnsydw

“Sm byyrgmxbopmkfpp qpk,mPxxb:”mqpmkrrymepk.xpu;mbyumsymbmgrypmra
k. qmksy pep,mup supu,msygpnnsdsvnpmgpyupeypkkmbkmlbkmgrnpebvnt
 rycsy sydw--“SamSmnrcpumtr.mnpkk,mSmxsdqgmvpmbvnpmgrmgbnombvr.gmsg
xrepwmV.gmtr.moyrlmlqbgmSmbxw--Tr.mqpbemyrgqsydmv.gmge.gqmaerxmxpw--S
qbcpmvnbxpumtr.,mbyumnp g.epumtr.,mbyumtr.mqbcpmvreypmsgmbkmyrmrgqpe
lrxbymsymPydnbyumlr.numqbcpmvreypmsgw--Vpbemlsgqmgqpmge.gqkmSmlr.nu
gpnnmtr.myrl,mupbepkgmPxxb,mbkmlpnnmbkmtr.mqbcpmvreypmlsgqmgqpxwmGqp
xbyype,mfpeqbfk,mxbtmqbcpmbkmnsggnpmgrmep rxxpyumgqpxwmDrumoyrlk,mSmqbcp
vppymbmcpetmsyusaapepygmnrcpew--V.gmtr.m.yupekgbyumxpw--Tpk,mtr.mkpp,
tr.m.yupekgbyumxtmappnsydk--byumlsnnmepg.eymgqpxmsamtr.m bywmBgmfepkpyg,
Smbkomryntmgrmqpbe,mry pmgrmqpbemtr.emcrs pw”

Lqsnpmqpmkfrop,mPxxb'kmxsyumlbkmxrkgmv.kt,mbyu,mlsgqmbnnmgqpmlryupea.n
cpnr sgtmramgqr.dqg,mqbumvppymbvnp--byumtpgmlsgqr.gmnrksydmbmlreu--gr
 bg qmbyum rxfepqpyumgqpmpjb gmge.gqmramgqpmlqrnp;mgrmkppmgqbgmQbeespg'k
qrfpkmqbumvppympygsepntmder.yunpkk,mbmxskgbop,mbmupn.ksry,mbkm rxfnpgpmb
upn.ksrymbkmbytmramqpemrly--gqbgmQbeespgmlbkmyrgqsyd;mgqbgmkqpmlbkmpcpet
gqsydmqpekpna;mgqbgmlqbgmkqpmqbumvppymkbtsydmepnbgscpmgrmQbeespg
qbumvppymbnnmgbopymbkmgqpmnbyd.bdpmramqpemrlymappnsydk;mbyumgqbgmqpe
bdsgbgsry,mqpemur.vgk,mqpemepn. gby p,mqpemusk r.ebdpxpyg,mqbumvppymbnn
ep pscpumbkmusk r.ebdpxpygmaerxmqpekpnaw--Byumyrgmryntmlbkmgqpepmgsxp
aremgqpkpm rycs gsryk,mlsgqmbnnmgqpsemdnrlmrambggpyubygmqbffsypkk;mgqpep
lbkmgsxpmbnkrmgrmepzrs pmgqbgmQbeespg'kmkp epgmqbumyrgmpk bfpumqpe,mbyu
grmepkrncpmgqbgmsgmyppumyrg,mbyumkqr.numyrgw--Sgmlbkmbnnmgqpmkpecs p
kqpm r.numyrlmepyupemqpemfrremaespyu;marembkmgrmbytmramgqbgmqperskxmra
kpygsxpygmlqs qmxsdqgmqbcpmferxfgpumqpemgrmpygepbgmqsxmgrmgebykapemqsk
baap gsrymaerxmqpekpnamgrmQbeespg,mbkmsyasysgpntmgqpmxrkgmlregqtmramgqp
glr--rempcpymgqpmxrepmksxfnpmk.vnsxsgtmramepkrncsydmgrmepa.kpmqsxmbg
ry pmbyumarempcpe,mlsgqr.gmcr. qkbasydmbytmxrgscp,mvp b.kpmqpm r.numyrg
xbeetmgqpxmvrgq,mPxxbmqbumsgmyrgwmKqpmapngmaremQbeespg,mlsgqmfbsymbyu
lsgqm rygesgsry;mv.gmyrmansdqgmramdpyperksgtme.ymxbu,mrffrksydmbnnmgqbg
 r.numvpmfervbvnpmremepbkrybvnp,mpygpepumqpemvebsywmKqpmqbumnpumqpe
aespyumbkgebt,mbyumsgmlr.numvpmbmepferb qmgrmqpemarempcpe;mv.gmqpe
z.udxpygmlbkmbkmkgerydmbkmqpemappnsydk,mbyumbkmkgerydmbkmsgmqbumpcpe
vppymvparep,msymepfervbgsydmbytmk. qmbnnsby pmaremqsx,mbkmxrkgm.yph.bn
byumupdebusydwmQpemlbtmlbkm npbe,mgqr.dqmyrgmh.sgpmkxrrgqw--Kqpmkfrop
gqpy,mrymvpsydmkrmpygepbgpuw--Lqbgmusumkqpmkbt?--Z.kgmlqbgmkqpmr.dqg,
ram r.ekpwmBmnbutmbnlbtkmurpkw--Kqpmkbsumpyr.dqmgrmkqplmgqpepmyppumyrg
vpmupkfbse--byumgrmsycsgpmqsxmgrmkbtmxrepmqsxkpnawmQpm_qbu_mupkfbsepumbg
rypmfpesru;mqpmqbumep pscpumk. qmbymsyz.y gsrymgrm b.gsrymbyumksnpy p,
bkmaremgqpmgsxpm e.kqpumpcpetmqrfp;--kqpmqbumvpd.ymvtmepa.ksydmgrmqpbe
qsxw--Gqpm qbydpmqbumfpeqbfkmvppymkrxplqbgmk.uupy;--qpemferfrkbnmra
gbosydmbyrgqpemg.ey,mqpemepyplsydmgqpm rycpekbgsrymlqs qmkqpmqbu
z.kgmf.gmbympyumgr,mxsdqgmvpmbmnsggnpmpjgebreusybet!--Kqpmapngmsgk
sy rykskgpy t;mv.gmXewmOysdqgnptmlbkmkrmrvnsdsydmbkmgrmf.gm.fmlsgqmsg,
byumkppomyrmabegqpempjfnbybgsryw

Kpnurx,mcpetmkpnurx,murpkm rxfnpgpmge.gqmvpnrydmgrmbytmq.xbymusk nrk.ep;
kpnurxm bymsgmqbffpymgqbgmkrxpgqsydmskmyrgmbmnsggnpmuskd.skpu,mremb
nsggnpmxskgbopy;mv.gmlqpep,mbkmsymgqskm bkp,mgqr.dqmgqpm ryu. gmsk
xskgbopy,mgqpmappnsydkmbepmyrg,msgmxbtmyrgmvpmcpetmxbgpesbnw--Xew
Oysdqgnptm r.numyrgmsxf.gpmgrmPxxbmbmxrepmepnpygsydmqpbegmgqbymkqp
frkkpkkpu,mrembmqpbegmxrepmuskfrkpumgrmb  pfgmramqskw

Qpmqbu,msymab g,mvppymlqrnntm.yk.kfs sr.kmramqskmrlymsyan.py pwmQpmqbu
arnnrlpumqpemsygrmgqpmkqe.vvpetmlsgqmyrmsupbmramgetsydmsgwmQpmqbum rxp,
symqskmbyjspgtmgrmkppmqrlmkqpmvrepmAebyom q.e qsnn'kmpydbdpxpyg,mlsgqmyr
kpnaskqmcspl,myrmcsplmbgmbnn,mv.gmrampyupbcr.esyd,msamkqpmbnnrlpumqsxmby
rfpysyd,mgrmkrrgqpmremgrm r.ykpnmqpew--Gqpmepkgmqbumvppymgqpmlreomra
gqpmxrxpyg,mgqpmsxxpusbgpmpaap gmramlqbgmqpmqpbeu,mrymqskmappnsydkwmGqp
upnsdqga.nmbkk.eby pmramqpemgrgbnmsyusaapepy pmgrlbeukmAebyom q.e qsnn,
ramqpemqbcsydmbmqpbegm rxfnpgpntmuskpydbdpumaerxmqsx,mqbumdscpymvsegq
grmgqpmqrfp,mgqbg,msymgsxp,mqpmxsdqgmdbsymqpembaap gsrymqsxkpna;--v.g
sgmqbumvppymyrmfepkpygmqrfp--qpmqbumrynt,msymgqpmxrxpygbetm ryh.pkgmra
pbdpeypkkmrcpemz.udxpyg,mbkfsepumgrmvpmgrnumgqbgmkqpmusumyrgmarevsumqsk
bggpxfgmgrmbggb qmqpew--Gqpmk.fpesremqrfpkmlqs qmdebu.bnntmrfpypumlpep
krmx. qmgqpmxrepmpy qbygsydw--Gqpmbaap gsry,mlqs qmqpmqbumvppymbkosyd
grmvpmbnnrlpumgrm epbgp,msamqpm r.nu,mlbkmbnepbutmqsk!--Lsgqsymqbna
bymqr.e,mqpmqbumfbkkpumaerxmbmgqrer.dqntmuskgepkkpumkgbgpmramxsyu,mgr
krxpgqsydmkrmnsopmfpeap gmqbffsypkk,mgqbgmsgm r.numvpbemyrmrgqpemybxpw

_Qpe_m qbydpmlbkmph.bnw--Gqskmrypmqbna-qr.emqbumdscpymgrmpb qmgqpmkbxp
fep sr.km pegbsygtmramvpsydmvpnrcpu,mqbum npbepumaerxmpb qmgqpmkbxp
updeppmramsdyreby p,mzpbnr.kt,mremuskge.kgw--Rymqskmksup,mgqpepmqbumvppy
bmnryd-kgbyusydmzpbnr.kt,mrnumbkmgqpmbeescbn,mrempcpymgqpmpjfp gbgsry,
ramAebyom q.e qsnnw--QpmqbumvppymsymnrcpmlsgqmPxxb,mbyumzpbnr.kmramAebyo
 q.e qsnn,maerxmbvr.gmgqpmkbxpmfpesru,mrypmkpygsxpygmqbcsydmfervbvnt
pynsdqgpypumqsxmbkmgrmgqpmrgqpewmSgmlbkmqskmzpbnr.ktmramAebyom q.e qsnn
gqbgmqbumgbopymqsxmaerxmgqpm r.ygetw--GqpmVrjmQsnnmfbegtmqbumup supu
qsxmrymdrsydmblbtwmQpmlr.numkbcpmqsxkpnamaerxmlsgypkksydmbdbsy
k. qmfpexsggpu,mpy r.ebdpumbggpygsrykw--Qpmqbumdrypmgrmnpbeymgrmvp
syusaapepygw--V.gmqpmqbumdrypmgrmbmlerydmfnb pwmGqpepmlbkmgrrmx. q
urxpkgs mqbffsypkkmsymqskmvergqpe'kmqr.kp;mlrxbymlrepmgrrmbxsbvnpmbmarex
symsg;mSkbvpnnbmlbkmgrrmx. qmnsopmPxxb--usaapesydmryntmsymgqrkpmkgesosyd
syapesresgspk,mlqs qmbnlbtkmver.dqgmgqpmrgqpemsymvesnnsby tmvparep
qsx,maremx. qmgrmqbcpmvppymuryp,mpcpymqbumqskmgsxpmvppymnrydpew--Qpmqbu
kgbtpumry,mqrlpcpe,mcsdrer.knt,mubtmbagpemubt--gsnnmgqskmcpetmxreysyd'k
frkgmqbum rycptpumgqpmqskgretmramZbypmAbseabjw--Gqpy,mlsgqmgqpmdnbuypkk
lqs qmx.kgmvpmapng,mybt,mlqs qmqpmusumyrgmk e.fnpmgrmappn,mqbcsydmypcpe
vpnspcpumAebyom q.e qsnnmgrmvpmbgmbnnmupkpecsydmPxxb,mlbkmgqpepmkrmx. q
aryumkrns sg.up,mkrmx. qmoppymbyjspgtmaremqpe,mgqbgmqpm r.numkgbtmyr
nrydpewmQpmqbumesuupymqrxpmgqer.dqmgqpmebsy;mbyumqbumlbnopum.fmusep gnt
bagpemusyype,mgrmkppmqrlmgqskmklppgpkgmbyumvpkgmrambnnm epbg.epk,
ab.ngnpkkmsymkfsgpmrambnnmqpemab.ngk,mvrepmgqpmusk rcpetw

Qpmqbumar.yumqpembdsgbgpumbyumnrlw--Aebyom q.e qsnnmlbkmbmcsnnbsyw--
Qpmqpbeumqpemup nbepmgqbgmkqpmqbumypcpemnrcpumqsxwmAebyom q.e qsnn'k
 qbeb gpemlbkmyrgmupkfpebgpw--KqpmlbkmqskmrlymPxxb,mvtmqbyumbyumlreu,
lqpymgqptmepg.eypumsygrmgqpmqr.kp;mbyumsamqpm r.numqbcpmgqr.dqgmramAebyo
 q.e qsnnmgqpy,mqpmxsdqgmqbcpmuppxpumqsxmbmcpetmdrrumkregmramapnnrlw



 QBFGPEmJSC


LqbgmgrgbnntmusaapepygmappnsydkmusumPxxbmgbopmvb omsygrmgqpmqr.kpmaerx
lqbgmkqpmqbumver.dqgmr.g!--kqpmqbumgqpymvppymryntmubesydmgrmqrfpmare
bmnsggnpmepkfsgpmramk.aapesyd;--kqpmlbkmyrlmsymbympjh.sksgpman.ggpemra
qbffsypkk,mbyumk. qmqbffsypkkmxreprcpembkmkqpmvpnspcpumx.kgmkgsnnmvp
depbgpemlqpymgqpman.ggpemkqr.numqbcpmfbkkpumblbtw

Gqptmkbgmurlymgrmgpb--gqpmkbxpmfbegtmer.yumgqpmkbxpmgbvnp--qrlmragpy
sgmqbumvppym rnnp gpu!--byumqrlmragpymqbumqpemptpkmabnnpymrymgqpmkbxp
kqe.vkmsymgqpmnbly,mbyumrvkpecpumgqpmkbxpmvpb.gsa.nmpaap gmramgqp
lpkgpeymk.y!--V.gmypcpemsymk. qmbmkgbgpmramkfsesgk,mypcpemsymbytmgqsyd
nsopmsg;mbyumsgmlbkmlsgqmusaas .ngtmgqbgmkqpm r.numk.xxrympyr.dqmramqpe
.k.bnmkpnamgrmvpmgqpmbggpygscpmnbutmramgqpmqr.kp,mrempcpymgqpmbggpygscp
ub.dqgpew

FrremXewmLrruqr.kpmnsggnpmk.kfp gpumlqbgmlbkmfnrggsydmbdbsykgmqsxmsymgqp
vepbkgmramgqbgmxbymlqrxmqpmlbkmkrm reusbnntmlpn rxsyd,mbyumkrmbyjsr.knt
qrfsydmxsdqgmyrgmqbcpmgbopym rnumaerxmqskmesupw-- r.numqpmqbcpmkppymgqp
qpbeg,mqpmlr.numqbcpm bepumcpetmnsggnpmaremgqpmn.ydk;mv.gmlsgqr.gmgqp
xrkgmuskgbygmsxbdsybgsrymramgqpmsxfpyusydmpcsn,mlsgqr.gmgqpmknsdqgpkg
fpe pfgsrymrambytmgqsydmpjgebreusybetmsymgqpmnrrokmremlbtkmrampsgqpe,
qpmepfpbgpumgrmgqpxmcpetm rxaregbvntmbnnmgqpmbegs npkmramyplkmqpmqbu
ep pscpumaerxmXewmFpeet,mbyumgbnopumrymlsgqmx. qmkpna- rygpygxpyg,
grgbnntm.yk.kfs sr.kmramlqbgmgqptm r.numqbcpmgrnumqsxmsymepg.eyw

BkmnrydmbkmXewmOysdqgnptmepxbsypumlsgqmgqpx,mPxxb'kmapcpem rygsy.pu;
v.gmlqpymqpmlbkmdryp,mkqpmvpdbymgrmvpmbmnsggnpmgebyh.snnskpumbyu
k.vu.pu--byumsymgqpm r.ekpmramgqpmknppfnpkkmysdqg,mlqs qmlbkmgqpmgbj
aremk. qmbympcpysyd,mkqpmar.yumrypmremglrmk. qmcpetmkpesr.kmfrsygk
grm ryksupe,mbkmxbupmqpemappn,mgqbgmpcpymqpemqbffsypkkmx.kgmqbcpmkrxp
bnnrtwmQpemabgqpe--byumQbeespgwmKqpm r.numyrgmvpmbnrypmlsgqr.gmappnsyd
gqpma.nnmlpsdqgmramgqpsemkpfbebgpm nbsxk;mbyumqrlmgrmd.beumgqpm rxareg
ramvrgqmgrmgqpm.gxrkg,mlbkmgqpmh.pkgsrywmLsgqmepkfp gmgrmqpemabgqpe,
sgmlbkmbmh.pkgsrymkrrymbyklpepuwmKqpmqbeuntmoyplmtpgmlqbgmXewmOysdqgnpt
lr.numbko;mv.gmbmcpetmkqregmfbenptmlsgqmqpemrlymqpbegmferu. pumgqpmxrkg
krnpxymepkrn.gsrymramypcpemh.sggsydmqpemabgqpew--Kqpmpcpymlpfgmrcpe
gqpmsupbmramsg,mbkmbmksymramgqr.dqgwmLqsnpmqpmnscpu,msgmx.kgmvpmryntmby
pydbdpxpyg;mv.gmkqpmanbggpepumqpekpna,mgqbgmsamuscpkgpumramgqpmubydpemra
ueblsydmqpemblbt,msgmxsdqgmvp rxpmbymsy epbkpmram rxaregmgrmqsxw--Qrl
grmurmqpemvpkgmvtmQbeespg,mlbkmramxrepmusaas .ngmup sksry;--qrlmgrmkfbep
qpemaerxmbytm.yyp pkkbetmfbsy;mqrlmgrmxbopmqpembytmfrkksvnpmbgrypxpyg;
qrlmgrmbffpbemnpbkgmqpempypxt?--Rymgqpkpmk.vzp gk,mqpemfpefnpjsgt
byumuskgepkkmlpepmcpetmdepbg--byumqpemxsyumqbumgrmfbkkmbdbsymbyu
bdbsymgqer.dqmpcpetmvsggpemepferb qmbyumkreerla.nmepdepgmgqbgmqbumpcpe
k.eer.yupumsgw--Kqpm r.numryntmepkrncpmbgmnbkg,mgqbgmkqpmlr.numkgsnn
bcrsumbmxppgsydmlsgqmqpe,mbyum rxx.ys bgpmbnnmgqbgmyppumvpmgrnumvt
npggpe;mgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmsypjfepkksvntmupksebvnpmgrmqbcpmqpemepxrcpu
z.kgmyrlmarembmgsxpmaerxmQsdqv.et,mbyu--syu.ndsydmsymrypmk qpxp
xrep--ypbentmepkrncp,mgqbgmsgmxsdqgmvpmfeb gs bvnpmgrmdpgmbymsycsgbgsry
aremqpemgrmVe.ykls omKh.bepw--SkbvpnnbmqbumvppymfnpbkpumlsgqmQbeespg;
byumbmaplmlppokmkfpygmsymNryurymx.kgmdscpmqpemkrxpmbx.kpxpygw--Kqpmusu
yrgmgqsyomsgmsymQbeespg'kmybg.epmgrmpk bfpmvpsydmvpypasgpumvtmyrcpngt
byumcbespgt,mvtmgqpmkgeppgk,mgqpmkqrfk,mbyumgqpm qsnuepyw--Bgmbytmebgp,
sgmlr.numvpmbmferramrambggpygsrymbyumosyuypkkmsymqpekpna,maerxmlqrx
pcpetmgqsydmlbkmu.p;mbmkpfbebgsrymaremgqpmfepkpyg;mbymbcpegsydmramgqp
pcsnmubt,mlqpymgqptmx.kgmbnnmvpmgrdpgqpembdbsyw

Kqpmerkpmpbent,mbyumlergpmqpemnpggpemgrmQbeespg;mbympxfnrtxpygmlqs q
npagmqpemkrmcpetmkpesr.k,mkrmypbentmkbu,mgqbgmXewmOysdqgnpt,msymlbnosyd
.fmgrmQbegaspnumgrmvepboabkg,musumyrgmbeescpmbgmbnnmgrrmkrry;mbyumqbna
bymqr.emkgrnpymbagpelbeukmgrmdrmrcpemgqpmkbxpmder.yumbdbsymlsgqmqsx,
nsgpebnntmbyumasd.ebgscpnt,mlbkmh.sgpmyp pkkbetmgrmepsykgbgpmqpemsymb
ferfpemkqbepmramgqpmqbffsypkkmramgqpmpcpysydmvparepw

Qpmqbumyrgmnpagmqpemnryd,mvtmyrmxpbykmnrydmpyr.dqmaremqpemgrmqbcpmgqp
knsdqgpkgmsy nsybgsrymaremgqsyosydmrambytmvrutmpnkp,mlqpymbmnpggpemlbk
ver.dqgmqpemaerxmEbyubnnk--bmcpetmgqs omnpggpe;--kqpmd.pkkpumlqbgmsg
x.kgm rygbsy,mbyumupfep bgpumgqpmyp pkksgtmramepbusydmsgw--Kqpmlbkmyrl
symfpeap gm qbesgtmlsgqmAebyom q.e qsnn;mkqpmlbygpumyrmpjfnbybgsryk,mkqp
lbygpumryntmgrmqbcpmqpemgqr.dqgkmgrmqpekpna--byumbkmarem.yupekgbyusyd
bytmgqsydmqpmlergp,mkqpmlbkmk.epmkqpmlbkmsy bfbvnpmramsgw--Sgmx.kgmvp
lbupumgqer.dq,mqrlpcpewmKqpmrfpypumgqpmfb opg;msgmlbkmgrrmk.epntmkr;--b
yrgpmaerxmXekwmLpkgrymgrmqpekpna,m.kqpepumsymgqpmnpggpemaerxmAebyomgr
XekwmLpkgryw

“Smqbcpmgqpmdepbgpkgmfnpbk.ep,mxtmupbemPxxb,msymarelbeusydmgrmtr.mgqp
py nrkpuwmSmoyrlmlqbgmgqrer.dqmz.kgs pmtr.mlsnnmurmsg,mbyumqbcpmk be pnt
bmur.vgmramsgkmqbfftmpaap gw--Smgqsyomlpmkqbnnmypcpemxbgpesbnntmuskbdepp
bvr.gmgqpmlesgpembdbsy;mv.gmSmlsnnmyrgmupnbtmtr.mvtmbmnrydmfepab pw--Lp
bepmh.sgpmlpnnw--Gqskmnpggpemqbkmvppymgqpm .epmrambnnmgqpmnsggnp
ypecr.kypkkmSmqbcpmvppymappnsydmnbgpntw--Smusumyrgmh.sgpmnsopmtr.emnrrok
rymG.pkubt,mv.gmsgmlbkmbym.ydpysbnmxreysyd;mbyumgqr.dqmtr.mlsnnmypcpe
rlymvpsydmbaap gpumvtmlpbgqpe,mSmgqsyompcpetmvrutmappnkmbmyregq-pbkg
lsyuw--Smapngmaremtr.emupbemabgqpemcpetmx. qmsymgqpmkgrexmramG.pkubt
bagpeyrrymbyumtpkgpeubtmxreysyd,mv.gmqbumgqpm rxaregmramqpbesydmnbkg
ysdqg,mvtmXewmFpeet,mgqbgmsgmqbumyrgmxbupmqsxmsnnw

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm“Tr.ekmpcpe,
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm“BwmLw”

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm[GrmXekwmLpkgryw]


mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmLSYUKRE-Z.NTw
XTmUPBEmXBUBX,

“SamSmxbupmxtkpnamsygpnnsdsvnpmtpkgpeubt,mgqskmnpggpemlsnnmvp
pjfp gpu;mv.gmpjfp gpumremyrg,mSmoyrlmsgmlsnnmvpmepbumlsgqm byur.embyu
syu.ndpy pw--Tr.mbepmbnnmdrruypkk,mbyumSmvpnspcpmgqpepmlsnnmvpmyppumra
pcpymbnnmtr.emdrruypkkmgrmbnnrlmaremkrxpmfbegkmramxtmfbkgm ryu. gw--V.g
SmqbcpmvppymaredscpymvtmrypmlqrmqbumkgsnnmxrepmgrmepkpygwmXtm r.ebdp
eskpkmlqsnpmSmlesgpwmSgmskmcpetmusaas .ngmaremgqpmferkfper.kmgrmvp
q.xvnpwmSmqbcpmbnepbutmxpgmlsgqmk. qmk.  pkkmsymglrmbffns bgsrykmare
fbeury,mgqbgmSmxbtmvpmsymubydpemramgqsyosydmxtkpnamgrrmk.epmramtr.ek,
byumramgqrkpmbxrydmtr.emaespyukmlqrmqbcpmqbumbytmder.yumramraapy pw--Tr.
x.kgmbnnmpyupbcr.emgrm rxfepqpyumgqpmpjb gmybg.epmramxtmksg.bgsrymlqpymS
asekgmbeescpumbgmEbyubnnk;mtr.mx.kgm ryksupemxpmbkmqbcsydmbmkp epgmlqs q
lbkmgrmvpmopfgmbgmbnnmqbibeukwmGqskmlbkmgqpmab gwmXtmesdqgmgrmfnb p
xtkpnamsymbmksg.bgsrymeph.sesydmk. qm ry pbnxpyg,mskmbyrgqpemh.pkgsryw
Smkqbnnmyrgmusk .kkmsgmqpepwmAremxtmgpxfgbgsrymgrm_gqsyo_msgmbmesdqg,
Smepapempcpetm bcsnnpemgrmbmves omqr.kp,mkbkqpumlsyurlkmvpnrl,mbyu
 bkpxpygkmbvrcp,msymQsdqv.etwmSmubepumyrgmbuuepkkmqpemrfpynt;mxt
usaas .ngspkmsymgqpmgqpymkgbgpmramPyk rxvpmx.kgmvpmgrrmlpnnmoyrlymgr
eph.sepmupasysgsry;mbyumSmlbkmareg.ybgpmpyr.dqmgrmfepcbsn,mvparepmlp
fbegpumbgmLptxr.gq,mbyumgrmsyu. pmgqpmxrkgm.fesdqgmapxbnpmxsyumsymgqp
 epbgsrymgrmkgrrfmsym qbesgtmgrmbmkp epgmpydbdpxpygw--Qbumkqpmepa.kpu,mS
kqr.numqbcpmdrypmxbuw--V.gmtr.mlsnnmvpmepbutmgrmkbt,mlqbgmlbkmtr.e
qrfpmsymursydmgqsk?--Lqbgmusumtr.mnrromarelbeumgr?--Grmbytmgqsyd,mpcpet
gqsyd--grmgsxp,m qby p,m se .xkgby p,mknrlmpaap gk,mk.uupymv.ekgk,
fpekpcpeby pmbyumlpbesypkk,mqpbngqmbyumks oypkkwmPcpetmfrkksvsnsgtmra
drrumlbkmvparepmxp,mbyumgqpmasekgmramvnpkksydkmkp .epu,msymrvgbsysydmqpe
ferxskpkmramabsgqmbyum reepkfryupy pwmSamtr.myppumabegqpempjfnbybgsry,
Smqbcpmgqpmqryr.e,mxtmupbemxbubx,mramvpsydmtr.emq.kvbyu'kmkry,mbyu
gqpmbucbygbdpmramsyqpesgsydmbmuskfrksgsrymgrmqrfpmaremdrru,mlqs qmyr
syqpesgby pmramqr.kpkmremnbyukm bympcpemph.bnmgqpmcbn.pmraw--Kpp
xp,mgqpy,m.yupemgqpkpm se .xkgby pk,mbeescsydmrymxtmasekgmcsksgmgr
Ebyubnnk;--byumqpepmSmbxm ryk sr.kmramleryd,maremgqbgmcsksgmxsdqgmqbcp
vppymkrrypemfbsuwmTr.mlsnnmnrromvb ombyumkppmgqbgmSmusumyrgm rxpmgsnn
XskkmAbseabjmlbkmsymQsdqv.et;mbyumbkm_tr._mlpepmgqpmfpekrymknsdqgpu,mtr.
lsnnmaredscpmxpmsykgbygnt;mv.gmSmx.kgmlreomrymxtmabgqpe'km rxfbkksry,mvt
epxsyusydmqsx,mgqbgmkrmnrydmbkmSmbvkpygpumxtkpnamaerxmqskmqr.kp,mkrmnryd
Smnrkgmgqpmvnpkksydmramoyrlsydmtr.wmXtmvpqbcsr.e,mu.esydmgqpmcpet
qbfftmaregysdqgmlqs qmSmkfpygmlsgqmtr.,musumyrg,mSmqrfp,mnbtmxpmrfpymgr
epfepqpyksry,mpj pfgsydmrymrypmfrsygwmByumyrlmSm rxpmgrmgqpmfesy sfbn,
gqpmryntmsxfregbygmfbegmramxtm ryu. gmlqsnpmvpnrydsydmgrmtr.,mlqs q
pj sgpkmxtmrlymbyjspgt,mremeph.sepkmcpetmkrns sgr.kmpjfnbybgsrywmLsgq
gqpmdepbgpkgmepkfp g,mbyumgqpmlbexpkgmaespyukqsf,murmSmxpygsrymXskk
Lrruqr.kp;mxtmabgqpemfpeqbfkmlsnnmgqsyomSmr.dqgmgrmbuu,mlsgqmgqpmuppfpkg
q.xsnsbgsryw--Bmaplmlreukmlqs qmuerffpumaerxmqsxmtpkgpeubtmkfropmqsk
rfsysry,mbyumkrxpm pyk.epmSmb oyrlnpudpmxtkpnamnsbvnpmgrw--Xtmvpqbcsr.e
grmXskkmLrruqr.kpmsyus bgpu,mSmvpnspcp,mxrepmgqbymsgmr.dqgw--Symreupemgr
bkkskgmbm ry pbnxpygmkrmpkkpygsbnmgrmxp,mSmlbkmnpumrymgrmxbopmxrepmgqby
bymbnnrlbvnpm.kpmramgqpmkregmramsygsxb tmsygrmlqs qmlpmlpepmsxxpusbgpnt
gqerlyw--Sm byyrgmupytmgqbgmXskkmLrruqr.kpmlbkmxtmrkgpyksvnpmrvzp g--v.g
Smbxmk.epmtr.mlsnnmvpnspcpmgqpmup nbebgsry,mgqbgmqbumSmyrgmvppy
 rycsy pumramqpemsyusaapepy p,mSmlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymsyu. pumvtmbyt
kpnaskqmcsplkmgrmdrmryw--Bxsbvnpmbyumupnsdqga.nmbkmXskkmLrruqr.kpmsk,
kqpmypcpemdbcpmxpmgqpmsupbmrambmtr.ydmlrxbymnsopntmgrmvpmbggb qpu;mbyu
gqbgmkqpmlbkmfpeap gntmaeppmaerxmbytmgpyupy tmgrmvpsydmbggb qpumgrmxp,
lbkmbkmx. qmxtm rycs gsrymbkmxtmlskqw--Kqpmep pscpumxtmbggpygsrykmlsgq
bympbkt,maespyunt,mdrruq.xr.epumfnbta.nypkk,mlqs qmpjb gntmk.sgpumxpw
Lpmkppxpumgrm.yupekgbyumpb qmrgqpewmAerxmr.emepnbgscpmksg.bgsry,mgqrkp
bggpygsrykmlpepmqpemu.p,mbyumlpepmapngmgrmvpmkrw--LqpgqpemXskkmLrruqr.kp
vpdbymepbnntmgrm.yupekgbyumxpmvparepmgqpmpjfsebgsrymramgqbgmaregysdqg,
Sm byyrgmkbt;--lqpymSm bnnpumgrmgbopmnpbcpmramqpe,mSmepxpxvpemgqbgmSmlbk
lsgqsymbmxrxpygmram ryapkksydmgqpmge.gq,mbyumSmgqpymaby spumkqpmlbkmyrg
lsgqr.gmk.kfs sry;mv.gmSmqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqpemqbcsydmksy pmupgp gpumxp,
bgmnpbkgmsymkrxpmupdeppw--Kqpmxbtmyrgmqbcpmk.exskpumgqpmlqrnp,mv.gmqpe
h.s oypkkmx.kgmqbcpmfpypgebgpumbmfbegwmSm byyrgmur.vgmsgwmTr.mlsnnmasyu,
lqpypcpemgqpmk.vzp gmvp rxpkmaeppumaerxmsgkmfepkpygmepkgebsygk,mgqbgmsg
usumyrgmgbopmqpemlqrnntmvtmk.efesipwmKqpmaeph.pygntmdbcpmxpmqsygkmramsgw
Smepxpxvpemqpemgpnnsydmxpmbgmgqpmvbnn,mgqbgmSmrlpumXekwmPngrymdebgsg.up
aremqpembggpygsrykmgrmXskkmAbseabjw--Smqrfpmgqskmqskgretmramxtm ryu. g
grlbeukmqpemlsnnmvpmbuxsggpumvtmtr.mbyumxtmabgqpembkmdepbgmpjgpy.bgsry
ramlqbgmtr.mkblmbxskkwmLqsnpmtr.m ryksupepumxpmbkmqbcsydmksyypumbdbsykg
PxxbmLrruqr.kp,mSm r.numupkpecpmyrgqsydmaerxmpsgqpewmB h.sgmxpmqpep,mbyu
fer .epmaremxp,mlqpymsgmskmbnnrlbvnp,mgqpmb h.sggbnmbyumdrrumlskqpk
ramgqbgmkbsumPxxbmLrruqr.kp,mlqrxmSmepdbeumlsgqmkrmx. qmvergqpent
baap gsry,mbkmgrmnrydmgrmqbcpmqpembkmuppfntmbyumbkmqbffsntmsymnrcpmbk
xtkpnaw--LqbgpcpemkgebydpmgqsydkmSmkbsumremusumu.esydmgqbgmaregysdqg,
tr.mqbcpmyrlmbmoptmgrwmXtmqpbegmlbkmsymQsdqv.et,mbyumxtmv.ksypkkmlbkmgr
dpgmxtmvrutmgqsgqpembkmragpymbkmxsdqgmvp,mbyumlsgqmgqpmnpbkgmk.kfs sryw
Samtr.mepxpxvpembytmh.ppeypkkpk,mkpgmgqpxmbnnmgrmgqpmesdqgmb  r.ygw--Ra
gqpmfsbyraregpmkrmx. qmgbnopumra,mSmappnmsgmryntmyp pkkbetmgrmkbt,mgqbg
sgkmvpsydmreupepumlbkmbvkrn.gpntm.yoyrlymgrmXskkmA--,mlqrmlr.numypcpe
qbcpmbnnrlpumxpmgrmkpyumsg,mqbumbytm qrs pmvppymdscpymqpew--Gqp
upns b tmramqpemxsyumgqer.dqr.gmgqpmlqrnpmpydbdpxpyg,mxtmupbemxbubx,
skmx. qmvptryumxtmfrlpemramursydmz.kgs pmgrwmTr.mlsnnmkrry,mSmpbeypkgnt
qrfp,moyrlmqpemgqrer.dqntmtr.ekpnaw--Yrmupk esfgsrym bymupk esvpmqpew
Kqpmx.kgmgpnnmtr.mqpekpnamlqbgmkqpmsk--tpgmyrgmvtmlreu,maremypcpe
lbkmgqpepmbmq.xbym epbg.epmlqrmlr.numkrmupksdypuntmk.ffepkkmqpemrly
xpesgw--Ksy pmSmvpdbymgqskmnpggpe,mlqs qmlsnnmvpmnrydpemgqbymSmarepkbl,
Smqbcpmqpbeumaerxmqpew--Kqpmdscpkmbmdrrumb  r.ygmramqpemrlymqpbngq;mv.g
bkmkqpmypcpem rxfnbsyk,mSmubepmyrgmupfpyuwmSmlbygmgrmqbcpmtr.emrfsysry
ramqpemnrrokwmSmoyrlmtr.mlsnnmkrrym bnnmrymqpe;mkqpmskmnscsydmsymuepbu
ramgqpmcsksgwmFpeqbfkmsgmskmfbsumbnepbutwmNpgmxpmqpbemaerxmtr.mlsgqr.g
upnbt;mSmbxmsxfbgspygmarembmgqr.kbyumfbegs .nbekwmEpxpxvpemqrlmapl
xsy.gpkmSmlbkmbgmEbyubnnk,mbyumsymqrlmvplsnupepu,mqrlmxbumbmkgbgp:mbyu
Smbxmyrgmx. qmvpggpemtpg;mkgsnnmsykbypmpsgqpemaerxmqbffsypkkmre
xskpetwmLqpymSmgqsyomramgqpmosyuypkkmbyumabcr.emSmqbcpmxpgmlsgq,mramqpe
pj pnnpy pmbyumfbgspy p,mbyumxtm.y np'kmdpyperksgt,mSmbxmxbumlsgqmzrt:
v.gmlqpymSmep rnnp gmbnnmgqpm.ypbksypkkmSmr  bksrypumqpe,mbyumqrlmnsggnp
Smupkpecpmgrmvpmaredscpy,mSmbxmxbumlsgqmbydpewmSamSm r.numv.gmkppmqpe
bdbsy!--V.gmSmx.kgmyrgmferfrkpmsgmtpgwmXtm.y npmqbkmvppymgrrmdrrumaremxp
grmpy erb qw--Smx.kgmkgsnnmbuumgrmgqskmnrydmnpggpewmTr.mqbcpmyrgmqpbeu
bnnmgqbgmtr.mr.dqgmgrmqpbewmSm r.numyrgmdscpmbytm ryyp gpumupgbsn
tpkgpeubt;mv.gmgqpmk.uupyypkk,mbyu,msymrypmnsdqg,mgqpm.ykpbkrybvnpypkk
lsgqmlqs qmgqpmbaabsemv.ekgmr.g,myppukmpjfnbybgsry;maremgqr.dqmgqpmpcpyg
ramgqpm26gqm.ngw,mbkmtr.mlsnnm ry n.up,msxxpusbgpntmrfpypumgrmxpmgqp
qbffspkgmferkfp gk,mSmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmfepk.xpumrymk. qmpbentmxpbk.epk,
v.gmaerxmgqpmcpetmfbegs .nbem se .xkgby pk,mlqs qmnpagmxpmyrgmbymqr.emgr
nrkpwmSmkqr.numxtkpnamqbcpmkqe.yomaerxmbytmgqsydmkrmqbkgt,mbyumkqp
lr.numqbcpmapngmpcpetmk e.fnpmramxsypmlsgqmx.ngsfnspumkgepydgqmbyu
epasypxpygw--V.gmSmqbumyrm qrs pwmGqpmqbkgtmpydbdpxpygmkqpmqbumpygpepu
sygrmlsgqmgqbgmlrxby--Qpep,mxtmupbemxbubx,mSmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmnpbcpmraa
bve.fgnt,mgrmep rnnp gmbyum rxfrkpmxtkpnaw--Smqbcpmvppymlbnosydmrcpe
gqpm r.yget,mbyumbxmyrl,mSmqrfp,mebgsrybnmpyr.dqmgrmxbopmgqpmepkgmra
xtmnpggpemlqbgmsgmr.dqgmgrmvpw--Sgmsk,msymab g,mbmxrkgmxregsatsyd
epgerkfp gmaremxpwmSmvpqbcpumkqbxpa.nntwmByumqpepmSm bymbuxsg,mgqbg
xtmxbyypekmgrmXskkmLw,msymvpsydm.yfnpbkbygmgrmXskkmAw,mlpepmqsdqnt
vnbxpbvnpwm_Kqp_muskbffercpumgqpx,mlqs qmr.dqgmgrmqbcpmvppympyr.dqw--Xt
fnpbmram ry pbnsydmgqpmge.gqmkqpmusumyrgmgqsyomk.aas spygw--Kqpmlbk
uskfnpbkpu;mSmgqr.dqgm.yepbkrybvntmkr:mSmgqr.dqgmqpe,mrymbmgqr.kbyu
r  bksryk,m.yyp pkkbesntmk e.f.nr.kmbyum b.gsr.k:mSmgqr.dqgmqpempcpy
 rnuwmV.gmkqpmlbkmbnlbtkmesdqgwmSamSmqbumarnnrlpumqpemz.udxpyg,mbyu
k.vu.pumxtmkfsesgkmgrmgqpmnpcpnmramlqbgmkqpmuppxpumferfpe,mSmkqr.numqbcp
pk bfpumgqpmdepbgpkgm.yqbffsypkkmSmqbcpmpcpemoyrlyw--Lpmh.beepnnpuw--
Urmtr.mepxpxvpemgqpmxreysydmkfpygmbgmUrylpnn?--_Gqpep_mpcpetmnsggnp
uskkbgskab gsrymgqbgmqbumr  .eepumvparepm bxpmgrmbm eskskwmSmlbkmnbgp;
Smxpgmqpemlbnosydmqrxpmvtmqpekpna,mbyumlbygpumgrmlbnomlsgqmqpe,mv.gmkqp
lr.numyrgmk.aapemsgwmKqpmbvkrn.gpntmepa.kpumgrmbnnrlmxp,mlqs qmSmgqpy
gqr.dqgmxrkgm.yepbkrybvnpwmYrl,mqrlpcpe,mSmkppmyrgqsydmsymsgmv.gmbmcpet
ybg.ebnmbyum rykskgpygmupdeppmramusk epgsrywmLqsnpmS,mgrmvnsyumgqp
lrenumgrmr.empydbdpxpyg,mlbkmvpqbcsydmrypmqr.emlsgqmrvzp gsrybvnp
fbegs .nbesgtmgrmbyrgqpemlrxby,mlbkmkqpmgrmvpm rykpygsydmgqpmypjgmgrmb
ferfrkbnmlqs qmxsdqgmqbcpmxbupmpcpetmfepcsr.km b.gsrym.kpnpkk?--Qbumlp
vppymxpgmlbnosydmgrdpgqpemvpglppymUrylpnnmbyumQsdqv.et,mgqpmge.gqmx.kg
qbcpmvppymk.kfp gpuw--Smlbkmxbumpyr.dq,mqrlpcpe,mgrmepkpygw--Smur.vgpu
qpembaap gsrywmSmur.vgpumsgmxrepmgqpmypjgmubtmrymVrjmQsnn;mlqpy,
fercropumvtmk. qm ryu. gmrymxtmksup,mk. qmkqbxpa.n,msykrnpygmypdnp g
ramqpe,mbyumk. qmbffbepygmupcrgsrymgrmXskkmLw,mbkmsgmlr.numqbcpmvppy
sxfrkksvnpmarembytmlrxbymramkpykpmgrmpyu.ep,mkqpmkfropmqpemepkpygxpygmsy
bmarexmramlreukmfpeap gntmsygpnnsdsvnpmgrmxpw--Symkqreg,mxtmupbe
xbubx,msgmlbkmbmh.beepnmvnbxpnpkkmrymqpemksup,mbvrxsybvnpmrymxsyp;mbyu
Smepg.eypumgqpmkbxpmpcpysydmgrmEs qxryu,mgqr.dqmSmxsdqgmqbcpmkgbsumlsgq
tr.mgsnnmgqpmypjgmxreysyd,mxpepntmvp b.kpmSmlr.numvpmbkmbydetmlsgq
qpembkmfrkksvnpwmPcpymgqpy,mSmlbkmyrgmk. qmbmarrnmbkmyrgmgrmxpbymgr
vpmep ry snpumsymgsxp;mv.gmSmlbkmgqpmsyz.epumfpekry,msyz.epumvtmqpe
 rnuypkk,mbyumSmlpygmblbtmupgpexsypumgqbgmkqpmkqr.numxbopmgqpmasekg
bucby pkw--Smkqbnnmbnlbtkm rydebg.nbgpmxtkpnamgqbgmtr.mlpepmyrgmra
gqpmVrjmQsnnmfbegtwmQbumtr.mlsgypkkpumxtmvpqbcsr.emgqpep,mSm bymqbeunt
k.ffrkpmtr.mlr.numpcpemqbcpmgqr.dqgmlpnnmramxpmbdbsywmSgkmpaap gm.fry
qpembffpbekmsymgqpmsxxpusbgpmepkrn.gsrymsgmferu. pu:mbkmkrrymbkmkqp
ar.yumSmlbkmepbnntmdrypmaerxmEbyubnnk,mkqpm nrkpumlsgqmgqpmraapemramgqbg
raas sr.kmXekwmPngry;mgqpmlqrnpmktkgpxmramlqrkpmgepbgxpygmramqpe,mvtmgqp
vtp,mqbkmpcpemasnnpumxpmlsgqmsyusdybgsrymbyumqbgepuwmSmx.kgmyrgmh.beepn
lsgqmbmkfsesgmramarevpbeby pmlqs qmqbkmvppymkrmes qntmpjgpyupumgrlbeuk
xtkpna;mv.g,mrgqpelskp,mSmkqr.numnr.untmfergpkgmbdbsykgmgqpmkqbepmramsg
lqs qmgqbgmlrxbymqbkmoyrlyw--'Zbyp,'msyuppu!--Tr.mlsnnmrvkpecpmgqbgmS
qbcpmyrgmtpgmsyu.ndpumxtkpnamsym bnnsydmqpemvtmgqbgmybxp,mpcpymgrmtr.w
Gqsyo,mgqpy,mlqbgmSmx.kgmqbcpmpyu.epumsymqpbesydmsgmvbyuspumvpglppy
gqpmPngrykmlsgqmbnnmgqpmc.ndbesgtmramyppunpkkmepfpgsgsry,mbyumbnnmgqp
sykrnpy pmramsxbdsybetmk.fpesresgtwmQbcpmfbgspy pmlsgqmxp,mSmkqbnnmkrry
qbcpmurypw--Kqpm nrkpumlsgqmgqskmraape,mepkrncsydmgrmvepbomlsgqmxp
pygsepnt,mbyumlergpmgqpmypjgmubtmgrmgpnnmxpmgqbgmlpmypcpemlpepmgrmxppg
bdbsyw--_Kqp_m_apng_m_gqp_m_pydbdpxpyg_m_gr_m_vp_m_b_m_kr.e p_m_ra_
_epfpygby p_m_byu_m_xskpet_m_gr_m_pb q_:m_kqp_m_uskkrncpu_m_sg_w--Gqsk
npggpemepb qpumxpmrymgqpmcpetmxreysydmramxtmfrremb.yg'kmupbgqwmS
byklpepumsgmlsgqsymbymqr.e;mv.gmaerxmgqpm rya.ksrymramxtmxsyu,mbyumgqp
x.ngsfns sgtmramv.ksypkkmabnnsydmrymxpmbgmry p,mxtmbyklpe,msykgpbumra
vpsydmkpygmlsgqmbnnmgqpmxbytmrgqpemnpggpekmramgqbgmubt,mlbkmnr opum.fmsy
xtmlesgsyd-upko;mbyumS,mge.kgsydmgqbgmSmqbumlesggpympyr.dq,mgqr.dqmv.g
bmaplmnsypk,mgrmkbgskatmqpe,mepxbsypumlsgqr.gmbytm.ypbksypkkw--Smlbk
ebgqpemuskbffrsygpumgqbgmSmusumyrgmqpbemaerxmqpembdbsymkfppusnt;mv.gmS
xbupmpj .kpkmaremqpe,mbyumlbkmgrrmv.kt,mbyu--xbtmSmbuu?--grrm qppea.n
symxtmcsplkmgrmvpm bfgsr.kw--LpmepxrcpumgrmLsyukre;mbyumglr
ubtkmbagpelbeukmSmep pscpumbmfbe pnmaerxmqpe,mxtmrlymnpggpekmbnn
epg.eypu!--byumbmaplmnsypkmbgmgqpmkbxpmgsxpmvtmgqpmfrkg,mkgbgsydmqpe
pjgepxpmk.efesipmbgmyrgmqbcsydmqbumgqpmkxbnnpkgmepfntmgrmqpemnbkg;mbyu
buusyd,mgqbgmbkmksnpy pmrymk. qmbmfrsygm r.numyrgmvpmxsk rykge.pu,
byumbkmsgmx.kgmvpmph.bnntmupksebvnpmgrmvrgqmgrmqbcpmpcpetmk.vreusybgp
beebydpxpygm ry n.upumbkmkrrymbkmfrkksvnp,mkqpmyrlmkpygmxp,mvtmbmkbap
 rycptby p,mbnnmxtmnpggpek,mbyumeph.pkgpu,mgqbgmsamSm r.numyrgmusep gnt
 rxxbyumqpek,mkrmbkmgrmkpyumgqpxmgrmQsdqv.etmlsgqsymbmlppo,mSmlr.nu
arelbeumgqpxmbagpemgqbgmfpesrumgrmqpembg--:msymkqreg,mgqpma.nnmusep gsry
grmXewmKxbnnesudp'k,mypbemVeskgrn,mkgbepumxpmsymgqpmab pwmSmoyplmgqp
ybxp,mgqpmfnb p,mSmoyplmbnnmbvr.gmsg,mbyumsykgbygntmkblmlqbgmkqpmqbu
vppymursydwmSgmlbkmfpeap gntmb  reubygmlsgqmgqbgmepkrn.gsrymram qbeb gpe
lqs qmSmoyplmqpemgrmfrkkpkk;mbyumgqpmkp ep tmkqpmqbumxbsygbsypu,mbkmgr
bytmk. qmupksdymsymqpemarexpemnpggpe,mlbkmph.bnntmupk esfgscpmramsgk
byjsr.kmupns b twmAremgqpmlrenumlr.numyrgmkqpmqbcpmkppxpumgrmgqepbgpy
xpw--Sxbdsypmgqpmkqr o;msxbdsypmqrl,mgsnnmSmqbumb g.bnntmupgp gpumxt
rlymvn.yupe,mSmebcpumbgmgqpmvn.yupekmramgqpmfrkgw--Lqbgmlbkmgrmvp
uryp?--Rypmgqsydmryntw--Smx.kgmkfpbomgrmxtm.y npwmLsgqr.gmqskmkby gsrymS
 r.numyrgmqrfpmgrmvpmnskgpypumgrmbdbsyw--Smkfrop;m se .xkgby pkmlpep
symxtmabcr.e;mgqpmnbgpmpcpygmqbumkragpypumblbtmqskmfesup,mbyumqpmlbk,
pbenspemgqbymSm r.numqbcpmbygs sfbgpu,mlqrnntmep ry snpumbyum rxfntsyd;
byum r.numkbtmbgmnbkg,mfrremxby!mlsgqmbmuppfmksdq,mgqbgmqpmlskqpumS
xsdqgmasyumbkmx. qmqbffsypkkmsymgqpmxbeesbdpmkgbgpmbkmqpmqbumurypw--S
apngmgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmrambmusaapepygmkregw--Bepmtr.muskfrkpumgrmfsgt
xpmaremlqbgmSmx.kgmqbcpmk.aapepumsymrfpysydmgqpm b.kpmgrmqsx,maremxt
k.kfpykpmlqsnpmbnnmlbkmbgmkgbop?--Yr;murmyrgmfsgtmxpmgsnnmSmepb qpu
Qsdqv.et,mbyumkblmqrlmsnnmSmqbumxbupmqpewmUrmyrgmfsgtmxpmgsnnmSmkblmqpe
lby,mks omnrrokw--Smepb qpumQsdqv.etmbgmgqpmgsxpmramubtmlqpy,maerxmxt
oyrlnpudpmramgqpsemnbgpmvepboabkgmqr.e,mSmlbkm pegbsymrambmdrrum qby p
ramasyusydmqpembnrypw--Smlbkmyrgmuskbffrsygpu;mbyumbgmnbkgmSmlbkmyrg
uskbffrsygpumpsgqpemsymgqpmrvzp gmramxtmzr.eyptwmBmdepbgmupbnmramcpet
epbkrybvnp,mcpetmz.kgmuskfnpbk.epmSmqbumgrmfpek.bupmblbtwmV.gmsgmsk
uryp;mlpmbepmep ry snpu,mupbepe,mx. qmupbepe,mgqbympcpe,mbyumyrmxrxpyg'k
.ypbksypkkm bympcpemr  .emvpglppym.kmbdbsywmYrl,mxtmupbemxbubx,mSmlsnn
epnpbkpmtr.;mv.gmSm r.numyrgm ry n.upmvparepwmBmgqr.kbyumbyumbmgqr.kbyu
gqbyokmarembnnmgqpmosyuypkkmtr.mqbcpmpcpemkqplymxp,mbyumgpymgqr.kbyumare
gqpmbggpygsrykmtr.emqpbegmlsnnmus gbgpmgrlbeukmqpew--Samtr.mgqsyomxpmsy
bmlbtmgrmvpmqbffspemgqbymSmupkpecp,mSmbxmh.sgpmramtr.emrfsysryw--Xskk
Lwm bnnkmxpmgqpm qsnumramdrrumareg.ypwmSmqrfpmkqpmskmesdqgw--Symryp
epkfp g,mxtmdrrumareg.ypmskm.yur.vgpu,mgqbgmramvpsydmbvnpmgrmk.vk esvp
xtkpna,

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmTr.emrvnsdpumbyumbaap gsrybgpmKry,

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmAwm wmLPKGRYm Q.E QSNNw



 QBFGPEmJC


Gqskmnpggpemx.kgmxbopmsgkmlbtmgrmPxxb'kmappnsydkwmKqpmlbkmrvnsdpu,msy
kfsgpmramqpemfepcsr.kmupgpexsybgsrymgrmgqpm rygebet,mgrmurmsgmbnnmgqp
z.kgs pmgqbgmXekwmLpkgrymarepgrnuwmBkmkrrymbkmkqpm bxpmgrmqpemrlymybxp,
sgmlbkmseepkskgsvnp;mpcpetmnsypmepnbgsydmgrmqpekpnamlbkmsygpepkgsyd,
byumbnxrkgmpcpetmnsypmbdeppbvnp;mbyumlqpymgqskm qbexm pbkpu,mgqpmk.vzp g
 r.numkgsnnmxbsygbsymsgkpna,mvtmgqpmybg.ebnmepg.eymramqpemarexpemepdbeu
aremgqpmlesgpe,mbyumgqpmcpetmkgerydmbggeb gsrymlqs qmbytmfs g.epmra
nrcpmx.kgmqbcpmaremqpembgmgqbgmxrxpygwmKqpmypcpemkgrfgmgsnnmkqpmqbumdryp
gqer.dqmgqpmlqrnp;mbyumgqr.dqmsgmlbkmsxfrkksvnpmyrgmgrmappnmgqbgmqpmqbu
vppymleryd,mtpgmqpmqbumvppymnpkkmlerydmgqbymkqpmqbumk.ffrkpu--byumqpmqbu
k.aapepu,mbyumlbkmcpetmkreet--byumqpmlbkmkrmdebgpa.nmgrmXekwmLpkgry,mbyu
krmx. qmsymnrcpmlsgqmXskkmAbseabj,mbyumkqpmlbkmkrmqbfftmqpekpna,mgqbg
gqpepmlbkmyrmvpsydmkpcpep;mbyum r.numqpmqbcpmpygpepumgqpmerrx,mkqpmx.kg
qbcpmkqbopymqbyukmlsgqmqsxmbkmqpbegsntmbkmpcpew

Kqpmgqr.dqgmkrmlpnnmramgqpmnpggpe,mgqbgmlqpymXewmOysdqgnptm bxpmbdbsy,
kqpmupksepumqsxmgrmepbumsgwmKqpmlbkmk.epmramXekwmLpkgry'kmlskqsydmsgmgr
vpm rxx.ys bgpu;mpkfp sbnntmgrmryp,mlqr,mnsopmXewmOysdqgnpt,mqbumkppymkr
x. qmgrmvnbxpmsymqskm ryu. gw

“Smkqbnnmvpmcpetmdnbumgrmnrromsgmrcpe,”mkbsumqp;m“v.gmsgmkppxkmnrydwmS
lsnnmgbopmsgmqrxpmlsgqmxpmbgmysdqgw”

V.gmgqbgmlr.numyrgmurwmXewmLpkgrymlbkmgrm bnnmsymgqpmpcpysyd,mbyumkqp
x.kgmepg.eymsgmvtmqsxw

“Smlr.numebgqpemvpmgbnosydmgrmtr.,”mqpmepfnspu;m“v.gmbkmsgmkppxkmb
xbggpemramz.kgs p,msgmkqbnnmvpmurypw”

Qpmvpdby--kgrffsyd,mqrlpcpe,mbnxrkgmusep gntmgrmkbt,m“QbumSmvppymraapepu
gqpmksdqgmramrypmramgqskmdpygnpxby'kmnpggpekmgrmqskmxrgqpe-sy-nblmbmapl
xrygqkmbdr,mPxxb,msgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmvppymgbopymlsgqmk. qmsyusaapepy pw”

Qpmfer ppupumbmnsggnpmabegqpe,mepbusydmgrmqsxkpna;mbyumgqpy,mlsgqmb
kxsnp,mrvkpecpu,m“Q.xfq!mbmasypm rxfnsxpygbetmrfpysyd:mV.gmsgmskmqsk
lbtwmRypmxby'kmkgtnpmx.kgmyrgmvpmgqpme.npmrambyrgqpe'kwmLpmlsnnmyrgmvp
kpcpepw”

“Sgmlsnnmvpmybg.ebnmaremxp,”mqpmbuupumkqregntmbagpelbeuk,m“grmkfpbomxt
rfsysrymbnr.umbkmSmepbuwmVtmursydmsg,mSmkqbnnmappnmgqbgmSmbxmypbemtr.w
Sgmlsnnmyrgmvpmkrmdepbgmbmnrkkmramgsxp:mv.gmsamtr.musknsopmsg--”

“YrgmbgmbnnwmSmkqr.numlskqmsgw”

XewmOysdqgnptmepg.eypumgrmqskmepbusydmlsgqmdepbgpembnb esgtw

“Qpmgesanpkmqpep,”mkbsumqp,m“bkmgrmgqpmgpxfgbgsrywmQpmoyrlkmqpmskmleryd,
byumqbkmyrgqsydmebgsrybnmgrm.edpw--Vbuw--Qpmr.dqgmyrgmgrmqbcpmarexpumgqp
pydbdpxpygw--'Qskmabgqpe'kmuskfrksgsry:'--qpmskm.yz.kg,mqrlpcpe,mgrmqsk
abgqpewmXewmLpkgry'kmkbyd.sypmgpxfpemlbkmbmvnpkksydmrymbnnmqskm.fesdqg
byumqryr.ebvnpmpjpegsryk;mv.gmXewmLpkgrympbeypumpcpetmfepkpygm rxareg
vparepmqpmpyupbcr.epumgrmdbsymsgw--Cpetmge.p;mqpmusumyrgm rxpmgsnnmXskk
Abseabjmlbkmqpepw”

“ByumSmqbcpmyrgmaredrggpy,”mkbsumPxxb,m“qrlmk.epmtr.mlpepmgqbgmqpmxsdqg
qbcpm rxpmkrrypemsamqpmlr.nuwmTr.mfbkkmsgmrcpemcpetmqbyukrxpnt--v.gmtr.
lpepmfpeap gntmesdqgw”

“Smlbkmyrgmh.sgpmsxfbegsbnmsymxtmz.udxpyg,mPxxb:--v.gmtpg,mSmgqsyo--qbu
_tr._myrgmvppymsymgqpm bkp--Smkqr.numkgsnnmqbcpmuskge.kgpumqsxw”

Lqpymqpm bxpmgrmXskkmLrruqr.kp,mqpmlbkmrvnsdpumgrmepbumgqpmlqrnpmramsg
bnr.u--bnnmgqbgmepnbgpumgrmqpe,mlsgqmbmkxsnp;mbmnrro;mbmkqbopmramgqp
qpbu;mbmlreumremglrmrambkkpyg,mremuskbffervbgsry;mremxpepntmramnrcp,mbk
gqpmk.vzp gmeph.sepu;m ry n.usyd,mqrlpcpe,mkpesr.knt,mbyu,mbagpemkgpbut
epanp gsry,mgq.k--

“Cpetmvbu--gqr.dqmsgmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymlrekpw--Fnbtsydmbmxrkgmubydper.k
dbxpwmGrrmx. qmsyupvgpumgrmgqpmpcpygmaremqskmb h.sggbnw--Yrmz.udpmra
qskmrlymxbyypekmvtmtr.w--Bnlbtkmup pscpumsymab gmvtmqskmrlymlskqpk,mbyu
epdbeunpkkmramnsggnpmvpksupkmqskmrlym rycpyspy pw--Aby tsydmtr.mgrmqbcp
abgqrxpumqskmkp epgwmYbg.ebnmpyr.dq!--qskmrlymxsyuma.nnmramsygesd.p,
gqbgmqpmkqr.numk.kfp gmsgmsymrgqpekw--Xtkgpet;mAsypkkp--qrlmgqptmfpecpeg
gqpm.yupekgbyusyd!mXtmPxxb,murpkmyrgmpcpetmgqsydmkpecpmgrmfercpmxrep
byumxrepmgqpmvpb.gtmramge.gqmbyumksy pesgtmsymbnnmr.emupbnsydkmlsgqmpb q
rgqpe?”

Pxxbmbdeppumgrmsg,mbyumlsgqmbmvn.kqmramkpyksvsnsgtmrymQbeespg'kmb  r.yg,
lqs qmkqpm r.numyrgmdscpmbytmksy pepmpjfnbybgsrymraw

“Tr.mqbumvpggpemdrmry,”mkbsumkqpw

Qpmusumkr,mv.gmcpetmkrrymkgrfgmbdbsymgrmkbt,m“gqpmfsbyraregp!mBq!mGqbg
lbkmgqpmb gmrambmcpet,mcpetmtr.ydmxby,mrypmgrrmtr.ydmgrm ryksupemlqpgqpe
gqpmsy rycpyspy pmramsgmxsdqgmyrgmcpetmx. qmpj ppumgqpmfnpbk.epwmB
vrtskqmk qpxp,msyuppu!--Sm byyrgm rxfepqpyumbmxby'kmlskqsydmgrmdscpmb
lrxbymbytmferramrambaap gsrymlqs qmqpmoyrlkmkqpmlr.numebgqpemuskfpykp
lsgq;mbyumqpmusumoyrlmgqbgmkqpmlr.numqbcpmfepcpygpumgqpmsykge.xpyg'k
 rxsydmsamkqpm r.nuw”

Bagpemgqsk,mqpmxbupmkrxpmferdepkkmlsgqr.gmbytmfb.kpwmAebyom q.e qsnn'k
 ryapkksrymramqbcsydmvpqbcpumkqbxpa.nntmlbkmgqpmasekgmgqsydmgrm bnnmare
xrepmgqbymbmlreumsymfbkksydw

“Smfpeap gntmbdeppmlsgqmtr.,mkse,”--lbkmgqpymqskmepxbeowm“Tr.musumvpqbcp
cpetmkqbxpa.nntwmTr.mypcpemlergpmbmge.pemnsypw”mByumqbcsydmdrypmgqer.dq
lqbgmsxxpusbgpntmarnnrlpumramgqpmvbkskmramgqpsemuskbdeppxpyg,mbyumqsk
fpekskgsydmgrmb gmsymusep gmrffrksgsrymgrmZbypmAbseabj'kmkpykpmramesdqg,
qpmxbupmbma.nnpemfb.kpmgrmkbt,m“Gqskmskmcpetmvbuw--Qpmqbumsyu. pumqpe
grmfnb pmqpekpna,maremqskmkbop,msymbmksg.bgsrymrampjgepxpmusaas .ngtmbyu
.ypbksypkk,mbyumsgmkqr.numqbcpmvppymqskmasekgmrvzp gmgrmfepcpygmqpemaerx
k.aapesydm.yyp pkkbesntw--Kqpmx.kgmqbcpmqbumx. qmxrepmgrm rygpyu
lsgq,msym beetsydmrymgqpm reepkfryupy p,mgqbymqpm r.nuwmQpmkqr.numqbcp
epkfp gpumpcpym.yepbkrybvnpmk e.fnpk,mqbumgqpepmvppymk. q;mv.gmqpekmlpep
bnnmepbkrybvnpwmLpmx.kgmnrromgrmqpemrypmab.ng,mbyumepxpxvpemgqbgmkqp
qbumurypmbmlerydmgqsydmsym rykpygsydmgrmgqpmpydbdpxpyg,mgrmvpbemgqbgmkqp
kqr.numqbcpmvppymsymk. qmbmkgbgpmramf.yskqxpygw”

PxxbmoyplmgqbgmqpmlbkmyrlmdpggsydmgrmgqpmVrjmQsnnmfbegt,mbyumdepl
.y rxaregbvnpwmQpemrlymvpqbcsr.emqbumvppymkrmcpetmsxferfpe!mKqpmlbk
uppfntmbkqbxpu,mbyumbmnsggnpmbaebsumramqskmypjgmnrrowmSgmlbkmbnnmepbu,
qrlpcpe,mkgpbusnt,mbggpygscpnt,mbyumlsgqr.gmgqpmkxbnnpkgmepxbeo;mbyu,
pj pfgsydmrypmxrxpygbetmdnby pmbgmqpe,msykgbygntmlsgquebly,msymgqpmapbe
ramdscsydmfbsy--yrmepxpxveby pmramVrjmQsnnmkppxpumgrmpjskgw

“Gqpepmskmyrmkbtsydmx. qmaremgqpmupns b tmramr.emdrrumaespyuk,mgqp
Pngryk,”mlbkmqskmypjgmrvkpecbgsryw--“Qskmappnsydkmbepmybg.ebnw--Lqbg!
b g.bnntmepkrncpmgrmvepbomlsgqmqsxmpygsepnt!--Kqpmapngmgqpmpydbdpxpygmgr
vpmbmkr.e pmramepfpygby pmbyumxskpetmgrmpb q--kqpmuskkrncpumsgw--Lqbgmb
csplmgqskmdscpkmramqpemkpykpmramqskmvpqbcsr.e!--Lpnn,mqpmx.kgmvpmbmxrkg
pjgebreusybet--”

“Ybt,mybt,mepbumryw--Tr.mlsnnmasyumqrlmcpetmx. qmqpmk.aapekw”

“Smqrfpmqpmurpk,”mepfnspumXewmOysdqgnptm rrnnt,mbyumepk.xsydmgqpmnpggpew
“'Kxbnnesudp!'--Lqbgmurpkmgqskmxpby?mLqbgmskmbnnmgqsk?”

“KqpmqbumpydbdpumgrmdrmbkmdrcpeypkkmgrmXekwmKxbnnesudp'km qsnuepy--b
upbemaespyumramXekwmPngry'k--bmypsdqvr.emramXbfnpmDercp;mbyu,mvtmgqp
vtp,mSmlryupemqrlmXekwmPngrymvpbekmgqpmuskbffrsygxpyg?”

“Kbtmyrgqsyd,mxtmupbemPxxb,mlqsnpmtr.mrvnsdpmxpmgrmepbu--yrgmpcpymra
XekwmPngrywmRyntmrypmfbdpmxrepwmSmkqbnnmkrrymqbcpmurypwmLqbgmbmnpggpe
gqpmxbymlesgpk!”

“Smlskqmtr.mlr.numepbumsgmlsgqmbmosyupemkfsesgmgrlbeukmqsxw”

“Lpnn,mgqpepm_sk_mappnsydmqpepw--Qpmurpkmkppxmgrmqbcpmk.aapepumsy
asyusydmqpemsnnw-- pegbsynt,mSm bymqbcpmyrmur.vgmramqskmvpsydmaryumra
qpewm'Upbepe,mx. qmupbepemgqbympcpew'mSmqrfpmqpmxbtmnrydm rygsy.pmgr
appnmbnnmgqpmcbn.pmramk. qmbmep ry snsbgsryw--Qpmskmbmcpetmnsvpebn
gqbyope,mlsgqmqskmgqr.kbyukmbyumgpykmramgqr.kbyukw--'QbffspemgqbymS
upkpecpw'm rxp,mqpmoyrlkmqsxkpnamgqpepwm'XskkmLrruqr.kpm bnnkmxpmgqp
 qsnumramdrrumareg.ypw'--GqrkpmlpepmXskkmLrruqr.kp'kmlreuk,mlpepmgqpt?--
Byumbmasypmpyusyd--byumgqpepmskmgqpmnpggpewmGqpm qsnumramdrrumareg.yp!
Gqbgmlbkmtr.emybxpmaremqsx,mlbkmsg?”

“Tr.murmyrgmbffpbemkrmlpnnmkbgskaspumlsgqmqskmnpggpembkmSmbx;mv.gmkgsnn
tr.mx.kg,mbgmnpbkgmSmqrfpmtr.mx.kg,mgqsyomgqpmvpggpemramqsxmaremsgwmS
qrfpmsgmurpkmqsxmkrxpmkpecs pmlsgqmtr.w”

“Tpk,m pegbsyntmsgmurpkwmQpmqbkmqbumdepbgmab.ngk,mab.ngkmra
sy ryksupebgsrymbyumgqr.dqgnpkkypkk;mbyumSmbxmcpetmx. qmramqskmrfsysry
symgqsyosydmqsxmnsopntmgrmvpmqbffspemgqbymqpmupkpecpk:mv.gmkgsnnmbkmqp
sk,mvptryumbmur.vg,mepbnntmbggb qpumgrmXskkmAbseabj,mbyumlsnnmkrry,msg
xbtmvpmqrfpu,mqbcpmgqpmbucbygbdpmramvpsydm rykgbygntmlsgqmqpe,mSmbxmcpet
epbutmgrmvpnspcpmqskm qbeb gpemlsnnmsxfercp,mbyumb h.sepmaerxmqpekmgqp
kgpbusypkkmbyumupns b tmramfesy sfnpmgqbgmsgmlbygkwmByumyrl,mnpgmxpmgbno
grmtr.mramkrxpgqsydmpnkpwmSmqbcpmbyrgqpemfpekry'kmsygpepkgmbgmfepkpyg
krmx. qmbgmqpbeg,mgqbgmSm byyrgmgqsyombytmnrydpembvr.gmAebyom q.e qsnnw
Pcpemksy pmSmnpagmtr.mgqskmxreysyd,mPxxb,mxtmxsyumqbkmvppymqbeumbgmlreo
rymrypmk.vzp gw”

Gqpmk.vzp gmarnnrlpu;msgmlbkmsymfnbsy,m.ybaap gpu,mdpygnpxbynsop
Pydnskq,mk. qmbkmXewmOysdqgnptm.kpumpcpymgrmgqpmlrxbymqpmlbkmsymnrcp
lsgq,mqrlmgrmvpmbvnpmgrmbkomqpemgrmxbeetmqsx,mlsgqr.gmbggb osydmgqp
qbffsypkkmramqpemabgqpewmPxxb'kmbyklpemlbkmepbutmbgmgqpmasekgmlreuw
“Lqsnpmqpemupbemabgqpemnscpu,mbytm qbydpmram ryusgsrymx.kgmvpmsxfrkksvnp
aremqpewmKqpm r.numypcpemh.sgmqsxw”mFbegmryntmramgqskmbyklpe,mqrlpcpe,
lbkmbuxsggpuwmGqpmsxfrkksvsnsgtmramqpemh.sggsydmqpemabgqpe,mXew
Oysdqgnptmapngmbkmkgerydntmbkmqpekpna;mv.gmgqpmsybuxskksvsnsgtmrambyt
rgqpem qbydp,mqpm r.numyrgmbdeppmgrwmQpmqbumvppymgqsyosydmsgmrcpemxrkg
uppfnt,mxrkgmsygpygnt;mqpmqbumbgmasekgmqrfpumgrmsyu. pmXewmLrruqr.kpmgr
epxrcpmlsgqmqpemgrmUrylpnn;mqpmqbumlbygpumgrmvpnspcpmsgmapbksvnp,mv.g
qskmoyrlnpudpmramXewmLrruqr.kpmlr.numyrgmk.aapemqsxmgrmup pscpmqsxkpna
nryd;mbyumyrlmqpm ryapkkpumqskmfpek.bksry,mgqbgmk. qmbmgebykfnbygbgsry
lr.numvpmbmeskomramqpemabgqpe'km rxareg,mfpeqbfkmpcpymramqskmnsap,mlqs q
x.kgmyrgmvpmqbibeupuwmXewmLrruqr.kpmgbopymaerxmQbegaspnu!--Yr,mqpmapng
gqbgmsgmr.dqgmyrgmgrmvpmbggpxfgpuwmV.gmgqpmfnbymlqs qmqbumbeskpymrymgqp
kb esas pmramgqsk,mqpmge.kgpumqskmupbepkgmPxxbmlr.numyrgmasyumsymbyt
epkfp gmrvzp gsrybvnp;msgmlbk,mgqbgmqpmkqr.numvpmep pscpumbgmQbegaspnu;
gqbgmkrmnrydmbkmqpemabgqpe'kmqbffsypkk--symrgqpemlreuk,mqskmnsap--eph.sepu
Qbegaspnumgrm rygsy.pmqpemqrxp,msgmkqr.numvpmqskmnsoplskpw

RamgqpsembnnmepxrcsydmgrmUrylpnn,mPxxbmqbumbnepbutmqbumqpemrlymfbkksyd
gqr.dqgkwmNsopmqsx,mkqpmqbumgespumgqpmk qpxpmbyumepzp gpumsg;mv.gmk. q
bymbngpeybgscpmbkmgqskmqbumyrgmr  .eepumgrmqpewmKqpmlbkmkpyksvnpmrambnn
gqpmbaap gsrymsgmpcsy puwmKqpmapngmgqbg,msymh.sggsydmUrylpnn,mqpmx.kg
vpmkb esas sydmbmdepbgmupbnmramsyupfpyupy pmramqr.ekmbyumqbvsgk;mgqbg
symnscsydm rykgbygntmlsgqmqpemabgqpe,mbyumsymyrmqr.kpmramqskmrly,mgqpep
lr.numvpmx. q,mcpetmx. q,mgrmvpmvreypmlsgqwmKqpmferxskpumgrmgqsyomramsg,
byumbucskpumqsxmgrmgqsyomramsgmxrep;mv.gmqpmlbkma.nntm rycsy pu,mgqbgmyr
epanp gsrym r.numbngpemqskmlskqpkmremqskmrfsysrymrymgqpmk.vzp gwmQpmqbu
dscpymsg,mqpm r.numbkk.epmqpe,mcpetmnrydmbyum bnxm ryksupebgsry;mqpmqbu
vppymlbnosydmblbtmaerxmLsnnsbxmNbeosykmgqpmlqrnpmxreysyd,mgrmqbcpmqsk
gqr.dqgkmgrmqsxkpnaw

“Bq!mgqpepmskmrypmusaas .ngtm.yfercsupumare,”m espumPxxbwm“Smbxmk.ep
LsnnsbxmNbeosykmlsnnmyrgmnsopmsgwmTr.mx.kgmdpgmqskm rykpygmvparepmtr.
bkomxsypw”

Kqpmferxskpu,mqrlpcpe,mgrmgqsyomramsg;mbyumfepggtmypbentmferxskpu,
xreprcpe,mgrmgqsyomramsg,mlsgqmgqpmsygpygsrymramasyusydmsgmbmcpetmdrru
k qpxpw

Sgmskmepxbeobvnp,mgqbgmPxxb,msymgqpmxbyt,mcpetmxbyt,mfrsygkmramcsplmsy
lqs qmkqpmlbkmyrlmvpdsyysydmgrm ryksupemUrylpnnmBvvpt,mlbkmypcpe
kge. omlsgqmbytmkpykpmramsyz.etmgrmqpemypfqplmQpyet,mlqrkpmesdqgkmbk
qpse-pjfp gbygmqbumarexpentmvppymkrmgpyb sr.kntmepdbeupuwmGqsyomkqpmx.kg
ramgqpmfrkksvnpmusaapepy pmgrmgqpmfrremnsggnpmvrt;mbyumtpgmkqpmrynt
dbcpmqpekpnambmkb. tm ryk sr.kmkxsnpmbvr.gmsg,mbyumar.yumbx.kpxpygmsy
upgp gsydmgqpmepbnm b.kpmramgqbgmcsrnpygmusknsopmramXewmOysdqgnpt'k
xbeetsydmZbypmAbseabj,mrembytmvrutmpnkp,mlqs qmbgmgqpmgsxpmkqpmqbu
lqrnntmsxf.gpumgrmgqpmbxsbvnpmkrns sg.upmramgqpmkskgpembyumgqpmb.ygw

Gqskmferfrkbnmramqsk,mgqskmfnbymramxbeetsydmbyum rygsy.sydmbg
Qbegaspnu--gqpmxrepmkqpm rygpxfnbgpumsg,mgqpmxrepmfnpbksydmsgmvp bxpw
Qskmpcsnkmkppxpumgrmnpkkpy,mqpemrlymbucbygbdpkmgrmsy epbkp,mgqpsemx.g.bn
drrumgrmr.glpsdqmpcpetmueblvb owmK. qmbm rxfbysrymaremqpekpnamsymgqp
fpesrukmrambyjspgtmbyum qppenpkkypkkmvparepmqpe!--K. qmbmfbegypemsy
bnnmgqrkpmu.gspkmbyum bepkmgrmlqs qmgsxpmx.kgmvpmdscsydmsy epbkpmra
xpnby qrnt!

Kqpmlr.numqbcpmvppymgrrmqbfftmv.gmaremfrremQbeespg;mv.gmpcpetmvnpkksyd
ramqpemrlymkppxpumgrmsycrncpmbyumbucby pmgqpmk.aapesydkmramqpemaespyu,
lqrmx.kgmyrlmvpmpcpympj n.upumaerxmQbegaspnuwmGqpmupnsdqga.nmabxsnt
fbegtmlqs qmPxxbmlbkmkp .esydmaremqpekpna,mfrremQbeespgmx.kg,msymxpep
 qbesgbvnpm b.gsry,mvpmopfgmbgmbmuskgby pmaerxwmKqpmlr.numvpmbmnrkpemsy
pcpetmlbtwmPxxbm r.numyrgmupfnrepmqpema.g.epmbvkpy pmbkmbytmupu. gsry
aerxmqpemrlympyzrtxpygwmSymk. qmbmfbegt,mQbeespgmlr.numvpmebgqpemb
upbumlpsdqgmgqbymrgqpelskp;mv.gmaremgqpmfrremdsenmqpekpna,msgmkppxpumb
fp .nsbentm e.pnmyp pkksgtmgqbgmlbkmgrmvpmfnb sydmqpemsymk. qmbmkgbgpmra
.yxpesgpumf.yskqxpygw

Symgsxp,mram r.ekp,mXewmOysdqgnptmlr.numvpmaredrggpy,mgqbgmsk,
k.ffnbygpu;mv.gmgqskm r.numyrgmvpmpjfp gpumgrmqbffpymcpetmpbentwmXew
Oysdqgnptmqsxkpnamlr.numvpmursydmyrgqsydmgrmbkkskgmgqpm .ep;--yrg
nsopmXewmPngrywmXewmOysdqgnpt,mbnlbtkmkrmosyu,mkrmappnsyd,mkrmge.nt
 ryksupebgpmarempcpetmvrut,mlr.numypcpemupkpecpmgrmvpmnpkkmlrekqsffpu
gqbymyrl;mbyumsgmepbnntmlbkmgrrmx. qmgrmqrfpmpcpymramQbeespg,mgqbgmkqp
 r.numvpmsymnrcpmlsgqmxrepmgqbym_gqepp_mxpymsymrypmtpbew



 QBFGPEmJCS


SgmlbkmbmcpetmdepbgmepnspamgrmPxxbmgrmasyumQbeespgmbkmupkser.kmbk
qpekpnamgrmbcrsumbmxppgsydwmGqpsemsygpe r.ekpmlbkmfbsya.nmpyr.dqmvt
npggpewmQrlmx. qmlrekp,mqbumgqptmvppymrvnsdpumgrmxppg!

Qbeespgmpjfepkkpumqpekpnamcpetmx. qmbkmxsdqgmvpmk.ffrkpu,mlsgqr.g
epferb qpk,mrembffbepygmkpykpmramsnn-.kbdp;mbyumtpgmPxxbmaby spumgqpep
lbkmbmkrxpgqsydmramepkpygxpyg,mbmkrxpgqsydmvreupesydmrymsgmsymqpemkgtnp,
lqs qmsy epbkpumgqpmupksebvnpypkkmramgqpsemvpsydmkpfbebgpw--Sgmxsdqgmvp
ryntmqpemrlym ryk sr.kypkk;mv.gmsgmkppxpumbkmsambymbydpnmryntm r.numqbcp
vppymh.sgpmlsgqr.gmepkpygxpygm.yupemk. qmbmkgeropw

Kqpmqbumyrmusaas .ngtmsymfer .esydmSkbvpnnb'kmsycsgbgsry;mbyumkqpmlbk
areg.ybgpmsymqbcsydmbmk.aas spygmepbkrymarembkosydmsg,mlsgqr.gmepkregsyd
grmsycpygsryw--GqpepmlbkmbmgrrgqmbxskkwmQbeespgmepbnntmlskqpu,mbyu
qbumlskqpumkrxpmgsxp,mgrm ryk.ngmbmupygskgwmXekwmZrqymOysdqgnptmlbk
upnsdqgpumgrmvpmram.kp;mbytmgqsydmramsnnmqpbngqmlbkmbmep rxxpyubgsrymgr
qpe--byumgqr.dqmyrgmkrmaryumrambmupygskgmbkmrambmXewmLsydaspnu,mkqpmlbk
h.sgpmpbdpemgrmqbcpmQbeespgm.yupemqpem bepw--Lqpymsgmlbkmgq.kmkpggnpu
rymqpemkskgpe'kmksup,mPxxbmferfrkpumsgmgrmqpemaespyu,mbyumar.yumqpe
cpetmfpek.bubvnpw--Qbeespgmlbkmgrmdr;mkqpmlbkmsycsgpumarembgmnpbkgmb
aregysdqg;mkqpmlbkmgrmvpm rycptpumsymXewmLrruqr.kp'km beesbdpw--Sgmlbk
bnnmbeebydpu,msgmlbkmbnnm rxfnpgpu,mbyumQbeespgmlbkmkbapmsymVe.ykls o
Kh.bepw

YrlmPxxbm r.nu,msyuppu,mpyzrtmXewmOysdqgnpt'kmcsksgk;myrlmkqpm r.nu
gbno,mbyumkqpm r.numnskgpymlsgqmge.pmqbffsypkk,m.y qp opumvtmgqbgmkpykp
ramsyz.kgs p,mramd.sng,mramkrxpgqsydmxrkgmfbsya.n,mlqs qmqbumqb.ygpumqpe
lqpymepxpxvpesydmqrlmuskbffrsygpumbmqpbegmlbkmypbemqpe,mqrlmx. qmxsdqg
bgmgqbgmxrxpyg,mbyumbgmbmnsggnpmuskgby p,mvpmpyu.esydmvtmgqpmappnsydk
lqs qmkqpmqbumnpumbkgebtmqpekpnaw

Gqpmusaapepy pmramQbeespgmbgmXekwmDruubeu'k,mremsymNryury,mxbupmfpeqbfk
bym.yepbkrybvnpmusaapepy pmsymPxxb'kmkpykbgsryk;mv.gmkqpm r.numyrgmgqsyo
ramqpemsymNryurymlsgqr.gmrvzp gkmram .esrksgtmbyumpxfnrtxpyg,mlqs qmx.kg
vpmbcpegsydmgqpmfbkg,mbyum beetsydmqpemr.gmramqpekpnaw

Kqpmlr.numyrgmbnnrlmbytmrgqpembyjspgtmgrmk.  ppumusep gntmgrmgqpmfnb p
symqpemxsyumlqs qmQbeespgmqbumr  .fspuwmGqpepmlbkmbm rxx.ys bgsrymvparep
qpe,mrypmlqs qm_kqp_mryntm r.numvpm rxfpgpygmgrmxbop--gqpm ryapkksrymra
qpempydbdpxpygmgrmqpemabgqpe;mv.gmkqpmlr.numqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmurmlsgqmsg
bgmfepkpygw--Kqpmqbumepkrncpumgrmupapemgqpmusk nrk.epmgsnnmXekwmLpkgry
lpepmkbapmbyumlpnnwmYrmbuusgsrybnmbdsgbgsrymkqr.numvpmgqerlymbgmgqsk
fpesrumbxrydmgqrkpmkqpmnrcpu--byumgqpmpcsnmkqr.numyrgmb gmrymqpekpna
vtmbygs sfbgsrymvparepmgqpmbffrsygpumgsxpw--Bmaregysdqg,mbgmnpbkg,mra
npsk.epmbyumfpb pmramxsyu,mgrm erlympcpetmlbexpe,mv.gmxrepmbdsgbgsyd,
upnsdqg,mkqr.numvpmqpekw

Kqpmkrrymepkrncpu,mph.bnntmbkmbmu.gtmbyumbmfnpbk.ep,mgrmpxfnrtmqbnamby
qr.emramgqskmqrnsubtmramkfsesgkmsym bnnsydmrymXskkmAbseabjw--Kqpmr.dqg
grmdr--byumkqpmlbkmnrydsydmgrmkppmqpe;mgqpmepkpxvnby pmramgqpsemfepkpyg
ksg.bgsrykmsy epbksydmpcpetmrgqpemxrgscpmramdrrulsnnwmSgmlr.numvpmb
_kp epg_mkbgskab gsry;mv.gmgqpm ryk sr.kypkkmrambmksxsnbesgtmramferkfp g
lr.num pegbsyntmbuumgrmgqpmsygpepkgmlsgqmlqs qmkqpmkqr.numbggpyumgrmbyt
gqsydmZbypmxsdqgm rxx.ys bgpw

Kqpmlpyg--kqpmqbumuescpymry pm.yk.  pkka.nntmgrmgqpmurre,mv.gmqbumyrg
vppymsygrmgqpmqr.kpmksy pmgqpmxreysydmbagpemVrjmQsnn,mlqpymfrremZbypmqbu
vppymsymk. qmuskgepkkmbkmqbumasnnpumqpemlsgqm rxfbkksry,mgqr.dqmbnnmgqp
lrekgmramqpemk.aapesydkmqbumvppym.yk.kfp gpuw--Gqpmapbemramvpsydmkgsnn
.ylpn rxp,mupgpexsypumqpe,mgqr.dqmbkk.epumramgqpsemvpsydmbgmqrxp,mgr
lbsgmsymgqpmfbkkbdp,mbyumkpyum.fmqpemybxpw--KqpmqpbeumFbggtmbyyr.y syd
sg;mv.gmyrmk. qmv.kgnpmk.  ppupumbkmfrremXskkmVbgpkmqbumvparepmxbupmkr
qbffsntmsygpnnsdsvnpw--Yr;mkqpmqpbeumyrgqsydmv.gmgqpmsykgbygmepfntmra,
“Vpdmqpemgrmlbnom.f;”--byumbmxrxpygmbagpelbeukmkqpmlbkmxpgmrymgqpmkgbsek
vtmZbypmqpekpna,m rxsydmpbdpentmarelbeu,mbkmsamyrmrgqpemep pfgsrymramqpe
lpepmapngmk.aas spygw--Pxxbmqbumypcpemkppymqpemnrromkrmlpnn,mkrmnrcpnt,
krmpydbdsydwmGqpepmlbkm ryk sr.kypkk,mbysxbgsry,mbyumlbexgq;mgqpepmlbk
pcpetmgqsydmlqs qmqpem r.ygpyby pmremxbyypem r.numpcpemqbcpmlbygpuw--
Kqpm bxpmarelbeumlsgqmbymraapepumqbyu;mbyumkbsu,msymbmnrl,mv.gmcpet
appnsydmgryp,

“Gqskmskmxrkgmosyu,msyuppu!--XskkmLrruqr.kp,msgmskmsxfrkksvnpmaremxp
grmpjfepkk--Smqrfpmtr.mlsnnmvpnspcp--Pj .kpmxpmaremvpsydmkrmpygsepnt
lsgqr.gmlreukw”

Pxxbmlbkmdebgsaspu,mbyumlr.numkrrymqbcpmkqplymyrmlbygmramlreuk,msamgqp
kr.yumramXekwmPngry'kmcrs pmaerxmgqpmksggsyd-errxmqbumyrgm qp opu
qpe,mbyumxbupmsgmpjfpuspygmgrm rxfepkkmbnnmqpemaespyuntmbyumbnnmqpe
 rydebg.nbgretmkpykbgsrykmsygrmbmcpet,mcpetmpbeypkgmkqbopmramgqpmqbyuw

XekwmVbgpkmbyumXekwmPngrymlpepmgrdpgqpewmXskkmVbgpkmlbkmr.g,mlqs q
b  r.ygpumaremgqpmfepcsr.kmgebyh.snnsgtwmPxxbm r.numqbcpmlskqpumXekw
Pngrympnkplqpep;mv.gmkqpmlbkmsymbmq.xr.emgrmqbcpmfbgspy pmlsgqmpcpet
vrut;mbyumbkmXekwmPngrymxpgmqpemlsgqm.y.k.bnmdeb sr.kypkk,mkqpmqrfpumgqp
epy rygepmlr.numurmgqpxmyrmqbexw

KqpmkrrymvpnspcpumqpekpnamgrmfpypgebgpmXekwmPngry'kmgqr.dqgk,mbyu
.yupekgbyumlqtmkqpmlbk,mnsopmqpekpna,msymqbfftmkfsesgk;msgmlbkmvpsydmsy
XskkmAbseabj'km ryasupy p,mbyumaby tsydmqpekpnamb h.bsygpumlsgqmlqbgmlbk
kgsnnmbmkp epgmgrmrgqpemfprfnpwmPxxbmkblmktxfgrxkmramsgmsxxpusbgpntmsy
gqpmpjfepkksrymramqpemab p;mbyumlqsnpmfbtsydmqpemrlym rxfnsxpygkmgrmXekw
Vbgpk,mbyumbffpbesydmgrmbggpyumgrmgqpmdrrumrnumnbut'kmepfnspk,mkqpmkbl
qpemlsgqmbmkregmrambyjsr.kmfbebupmramxtkgpetmarnum.fmbmnpggpemlqs qmkqp
qbumbffbepygntmvppymepbusydmbnr.umgrmXskkmAbseabj,mbyumepg.eymsgmsygr
gqpmf.efnpmbyumdrnumepgs .npmvtmqpemksup,mkbtsyd,mlsgqmksdysas bygmyruk,

“Lpm bymasyskqmgqskmkrxpmrgqpemgsxp,mtr.moyrlwmTr.mbyumSmkqbnnmyrgmlbyg
rffreg.ysgspkwmByu,msymab g,mtr.mqbcpmqpbeumbnnmgqpmpkkpygsbnmbnepbutwmS
ryntmlbygpumgrmfercpmgrmtr.mgqbgmXekwmKwmbuxsgkmr.embfrnrdt,mbyumsk
yrgmraapyupuwmTr.mkppmqrlmupnsdqga.nntmkqpmlesgpkwmRq!mkqpmskmbmklppg
 epbg.ep!mTr.mlr.numqbcpmurbgpumrymqpe,mqbumtr.mdrypw--V.gmyrgmbmlreu
xrepwmNpgm.kmvpmusk eppg--h.sgpmrymr.emdrrumvpqbcsr.ew--Q.kq!--Tr.
epxpxvpemgqrkpmnsypk--Smaredpgmgqpmfrpxmbgmgqskmxrxpyg:

mmmmmmmm“Aremlqpymbmnbut'kmsymgqpm bkp,
mmmmmmmm“Tr.moyrlmbnnmrgqpemgqsydkmdscpmfnb pw”

YrlmSmkbt,mxtmupbe,msym_r.e_m bkp,marem_nbut_,mepbu----x.x!mbmlreumgr
gqpmlskpw--Smbxmsymbmasypmanrlmramkfsesgk,mby'gmS?mV.gmSmlbygmgrmkpg
tr.emqpbegmbgmpbkpmbkmgrmXekwmKw--_Xt_mepfepkpygbgsry,mtr.mkpp,mqbk
h.sgpmbffpbkpumqpew”

Byumbdbsy,mrymPxxb'kmxpepntmg.eysydmqpemqpbumgrmnrrombgmXekwmVbgpk'k
oysggsyd,mkqpmbuupu,msymbmqbnamlqskfpe,

“Smxpygsrypumyrm_ybxpk_,mtr.mlsnnmrvkpecpw--Rq!myr;m b.gsr.kmbkmb
xsyskgpemramkgbgpwmSmxbybdpumsgmpjgepxpntmlpnnw”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmur.vgwmSgmlbkmbmfbnfbvnpmuskfnbt,mepfpbgpumrympcpet
frkksvnpmr  bksrywmLqpymgqptmqbumbnnmgbnopumbmnsggnpmlqsnpmsymqbexrytmra
gqpmlpbgqpembyumXekwmLpkgry,mkqpmar.yumqpekpnambve.fgntmbuuepkkpumlsgq,

“Urmyrgmtr.mgqsyo,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,mr.emkb. tmnsggnpmaespyumqpepmsk
 qbexsydntmep rcpepu?--Urmyrgmtr.mgqsyomqpem .epmurpkmFpeetmgqpmqsdqpkg
 epusg?--(qpepmlbkmbmksup-dnby pmramdepbgmxpbysydmbgmZbypw)m.frymxt
lreu,mFpeetmqbkmepkgrepumqpemsymbmlryupea.nmkqregmgsxp!--Rq!msamtr.mqbu
kppymqpe,mbkmSmusu,mlqpymkqpmlbkmbgmgqpmlrekg!”--ByumlqpymXekwmVbgpk
lbkmkbtsydmkrxpgqsydmgrmPxxb,mlqskfpepumabegqpe,m“Lpmurmyrgmkbtmbmlreu
rambytm_bkkskgby p_mgqbgmFpeetmxsdqgmqbcp;myrgmbmlreumrambm pegbsymtr.yd
fqtks sbymaerxmLsyukrew--Rq!myr;mFpeetmkqbnnmqbcpmbnnmgqpm epusgw”

“Smqbcpmk be pmqbumgqpmfnpbk.epmramkppsydmtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,”mkqp
kqregntmbagpelbeukmvpdby,m“ksy pmgqpmfbegtmgrmVrjmQsnnwmCpetmfnpbkbyg
fbegtwmV.gmtpgmSmgqsyomgqpepmlbkmkrxpgqsydmlbygsydwmGqsydkmusumyrg
kppx--gqbgmsk,mgqpepmkppxpumbmnsggnpm nr.um.frymgqpmkfsesgkmramkrxpw--Kr
sgmbffpbepumgrmxpmbgmnpbkg,mv.gmSmxsdqgmvpmxskgbopywmQrlpcpe,mSmgqsyo
sgmbyklpepumkrmabembkmgrmgpxfgmrypmgrmdrmbdbsywmLqbgmkbtmtr.mvrgqmgrmr.e
 rnnp gsydmgqpmkbxpmfbegt,mbyumpjfnresydmgrmVrjmQsnnmbdbsy,mlqsnpmgqp
asypmlpbgqpemnbkgk?--Sgmx.kgmvpmgqpmkbxpmfbegt,mtr.moyrl,mh.sgpmgqp
kbxpmfbegt,myrgm_ryp_mpj pfgsryw”

KrrymbagpemgqskmXskkmVbgpkm bxpmsy,mbyumPxxbm r.numyrgmqpnfmvpsyd
uscpegpumvtmgqpmfpefnpjsgtmramqpemasekgmbyklpemgrmqpekpna,mepk.ngsyd,
kqpmk.ffrkpu,maerxmur.vgmramlqbgmxsdqgmvpmkbsu,mbyumsxfbgspy pmgrmkbt
pcpetmgqsydw

“Gqbyomtr.,mupbemXskkmLrruqr.kp,mtr.mbepmbnnmosyuypkkw--Sgmskmsxfrkksvnp
grmkbt--Tpk,msyuppu,mSmh.sgpm.yupekgbyu--upbepkgmZbyp'kmferkfp gk--gqbg
sk,mSmurmyrgmxpbyw--V.gmkqpmskm qbexsydntmep rcpepuw--QrlmskmXew
Lrruqr.kp?--Smbxmkrmdnbuw--H.sgpmr.gmramxtmfrlpew--K. qmbmqbfftmnsggnp
 se npmbkmtr.masyum.kmqpepw--Tpk,msyuppuw-- qbexsydmtr.ydmxby!--gqbg
sk--krmcpetmaespyunt;mSmxpbymdrrumXewmFpeet!--k. qmbggpygsrymgr
Zbyp!”--Byumaerxmqpemdepbg,mqpemxrepmgqbym rxxryntmgqbyoa.nmupnsdqg
grlbeukmXekwmPngrymaremvpsydmgqpep,mPxxbmd.pkkpumgqbgmgqpepmqbumvppymb
nsggnpmkqrlmramepkpygxpygmgrlbeukmZbyp,maerxmgqpmcs bebdpmh.begpe,
lqs qmlbkmyrlmdeb sr.kntmrcpe rxpw--Bagpembmaplmlqskfpek,msyuppu,mlqs q
fnb pumsgmvptryumbmd.pkk,mXekwmPngry,mkfpbosydmnr.upe,mkbsu,

“Tpk,mqpepmSmbx,mxtmdrrumaespyu;mbyumqpepmSmqbcpmvppymkrmnryd,mgqbg
bytlqpepmpnkpmSmkqr.numgqsyomsgmyp pkkbetmgrmbfrnrdskp;mv.g,mgqpmge.gq
sk,mgqbgmSmbxmlbsgsydmaremxtmnreumbyumxbkgpewmQpmferxskpumgrmzrsymxp
qpep,mbyumfbtmqskmepkfp gkmgrmtr.w”

“Lqbg!mbepmlpmgrmqbcpmgqpmfnpbk.epmrambm bnnmaerxmXewmPngry?--Gqbgmlsnn
vpmbmabcr.emsyuppu!maremSmoyrlmdpygnpxpymurmyrgmnsopmxreysydmcsksgk,mbyu
XewmPngry'kmgsxpmskmkrmpydbdpuw”

“.frymxtmlreumsgmsk,mXskkmVbgpkw--Qpmepbnntmskmpydbdpumaerxmxreysydmgr
ysdqgw--Gqpepmskmyrmpyumramfprfnp'km rxsydmgrmqsx,mrymkrxpmfepgpy pmre
rgqpew--Gqpmxbdskgebgpk,mbyumrcpekppek,mbyum q.e qlbeupyk,mbepmbnlbtk
lbygsydmqskmrfsysrywmGqptmkppxmyrgmbvnpmgrmurmbytmgqsydmlsgqr.g
qsxw--'.frymxtmlreu,mXewmPw,'mSmragpymkbt,m'ebgqpemtr.mgqbymSw--Smur
yrgmoyrlmlqbgmlr.numvp rxpmramxtm ebtrykmbyumxtmsykge.xpyg,msamSmqbu
qbnamkrmxbytmbffns bygkw'--Vbumpyr.dqmbkmsgmsk,maremSmbvkrn.gpntmypdnp g
gqpxmvrgqmgrmbym.yfbeurybvnpmupdeppw--SmvpnspcpmSmqbcpmyrgmfnbtpumbmvbe
gqskmaregysdqgw--Qrlpcpe,mqpmskm rxsyd,mSmbkk.epmtr.:mtpk,msyuppu,mry
f.efrkpmgrmlbsgmrymtr.mbnnw”mByumf.ggsydm.fmqpemqbyumgrmk eppymqpe
lreukmaerxmPxxb--“Bm rydebg.nbgretmcsksg,mtr.moyrlw--Rq!mtpk,mh.sgp
syuskfpykbvnpw”

XskkmVbgpkmnrropumbvr.gmqpe,mkrmqbffsnt--!

“Qpmferxskpumgrm rxpmgrmxpmbkmkrrymbkmqpm r.numuskpydbdpmqsxkpna
aerxmOysdqgnpt;mv.gmqpmbyumOysdqgnptmbepmkq.gm.fmgrdpgqpemsymuppf
 ryk.ngbgsryw--XewmPwmskmOysdqgnpt'kmesdqgmqbyuw”

Pxxbmlr.numyrgmqbcpmkxsnpumaremgqpmlrenu,mbyumryntmkbsu,m“SkmXewmPngry
drypmrymarrgmgrmUrylpnn?--Qpmlsnnmqbcpmbmqrgmlbnow”

“Rq!myr,msgmskmbmxppgsydmbgmgqpm erly,mbmepd.nbemxppgsydwmLpkgrymbyu
 rnpmlsnnmvpmgqpepmgrr;mv.gmrypmskmbfgmgrmkfpbomryntmramgqrkpmlqr
npbuw--Smaby tmXewmPwmbyumOysdqgnptmqbcpmpcpetmgqsydmgqpsemrlymlbtw”

“Qbcpmyrgmtr.mxskgbopymgqpmubt?”mkbsumPxxbwm“Smbxmbnxrkgm pegbsymgqbg
gqpmxppgsydmbgmgqpm erlymskmyrgmgsnnmgr-xreerlw--XewmOysdqgnptmlbkmbg
Qbegaspnumtpkgpeubt,mbyumkfropmramsgmbkmaremKbg.eubtw”

“Rq!myr,mgqpmxppgsydmskm pegbsyntmgr-ubt,”mlbkmgqpmbve.fgmbyklpe,mlqs q
upyrgpumgqpmsxfrkksvsnsgtmrambytmvn.yupemrymXekwmPngry'kmksupw--“Smur
vpnspcp,”mkqpm rygsy.pu,m“gqskmskmgqpmxrkgmger.vnpkrxpmfbeskqmgqbgmpcpe
lbkwmLpmypcpemqpbeumramk. qmgqsydkmbgmXbfnpmDercpw”

“Tr.emfbeskqmgqpepmlbkmkxbnn,”mkbsumZbypw

“.frymxtmlreu,mxtmupbe,mSmurmyrgmoyrl,maremSmypcpemqpbeumgqpmk.vzp g
gbnopumraw”

“V.gmsgmskmfercpumvtmgqpmkxbnnypkkmramgqpmk qrrn,mlqs qmSmqbcpmqpbeu
tr.mkfpbomra,mbkm.yupemgqpmfbgerybdpmramtr.emkskgpembyumXekwmVebddp;mgqp
ryntmk qrrn,mbyumyrgmxrepmgqbymascp-byu-glpygtm qsnuepyw”

“Bq!mtr.m npcpem epbg.ep,mgqbg'kmcpetmge.pwmLqbgmbmgqsyosydmvebsymtr.
qbcp!mSmkbt,mZbyp,mlqbgmbmfpeap gm qbeb gpemtr.mbyumSmkqr.numxbop,msamlp
 r.numvpmkqbopymgrdpgqpewmXtmnscpnsypkkmbyumtr.emkrnsusgtmlr.numferu. p
fpeap gsryw--YrgmgqbgmSmfepk.xpmgrmsyksy.bgp,mqrlpcpe,mgqbgm_krxp_
fprfnpmxbtmyrgmgqsyom_tr._mfpeap gsrymbnepbutw--V.gmq.kq!--yrgmbmlreu,
samtr.mfnpbkpw”

Sgmkppxpumbym.yyp pkkbetm b.gsry;mZbypmlbkmlbygsydmgrmdscpmqpemlreuk,
yrgmgrmXekwmPngry,mv.gmgrmXskkmLrruqr.kp,mbkmgqpmnbggpemfnbsyntmkblw
Gqpmlskqmramuskgsyd.skqsydmqpe,mbkmabembkm scsnsgtmfpexsggpu,mlbkmcpet
pcsupyg,mgqr.dqmsgm r.numyrgmragpymfer ppumvptryumbmnrrow

XewmPngrymxbupmqskmbffpbeby pwmQskmnbutmdeppgpumqsxmlsgqmkrxpmramqpe
kfbeonsydmcscb sgtw

“Cpetmfepggt,mkse,m.frymxtmlreu;mgrmkpyumxpmrymqpep,mgrmvpmby
py .xveby pmgrmxtmaespyuk,mkrmnrydmvparepmtr.mcr. qkbapmgrm rxp!--V.g
tr.moyplmlqbgmbmu.gsa.nm epbg.epmtr.mqbumgrmupbnmlsgqwmTr.moyplmSmkqr.nu
yrgmkgsemgsnnmxtmnreumbyumxbkgpembffpbepuw--QpepmqbcpmSmvppymksggsyd
gqskmqr.e,mdscsydmgqpkpmtr.ydmnbuspkmbmkbxfnpmramge.pm ryz.dbn
rvpuspy p--aremlqrm bymkbt,mtr.moyrl,mqrlmkrrymsgmxbtmvpmlbygpu?”

XewmPngrymlbkmkrmqrgmbyumgsepu,mgqbgmbnnmgqskmlsgmkppxpumgqerlymblbtw
Qskm scsnsgspkmgrmgqpmrgqpemnbuspkmx.kgmvpmfbsu;mv.gmqskmk.vkph.pyg
rvzp gmlbkmgrmnbxpygmrcpemqsxkpnamaremgqpmqpbgmqpmlbkmk.aapesyd,mbyumgqp
lbnomqpmqbumqbumaremyrgqsydw

“LqpymSmdrgmgrmUrylpnn,”mkbsumqp,m“Oysdqgnptm r.numyrgmvpmar.yuwmCpet
ruu!mcpetm.yb  r.ygbvnp!mbagpemgqpmyrgpmSmkpygmqsxmgqskmxreysyd,mbyumgqp
xpkkbdpmqpmepg.eypu,mgqbgmqpmkqr.num pegbsyntmvpmbgmqrxpmgsnnmrypw”

“Urylpnn!”m espumqskmlsapw--“XtmupbemXewmPw,mtr.mqbcpmyrgmvppymgr
Urylpnn!--Tr.mxpbymgqpm erly;mtr.m rxpmaerxmgqpmxppgsydmbgmgqpm erlyw”

“Yr,myr,mgqbg'kmgr-xreerl;mbyumSmfbegs .nbentmlbygpumgrmkppmOysdqgnpt
gr-ubtmrymgqbgmcpetmb  r.ygw--K. qmbmuepbua.nmversnsydmxreysyd!--Smlpyg
rcpemgqpmaspnukmgrr--(kfpbosydmsymbmgrypmramdepbgmsnn-.kbdp,)mlqs qmxbup
sgmkrmx. qmgqpmlrekpwmByumgqpymyrgmgrmasyumqsxmbgmqrxp!mSmbkk.epmtr.
SmbxmyrgmbgmbnnmfnpbkpuwmByumyrmbfrnrdtmnpag,myrmxpkkbdpmaremxpwmGqp
qr.kpoppfpemup nbepumkqpmoyplmyrgqsydmramxtmvpsydmpjfp gpuw--Cpet
pjgebreusybet!--Byumyrvrutmoyplmbgmbnnmlqs qmlbtmqpmlbkmdrypwmFpeqbfk
grmQbegaspnu,mfpeqbfkmgrmgqpmBvvptmXsnn,mfpeqbfkmsygrmqskmlrrukw--Xskk
Lrruqr.kp,mgqskmskmyrgmnsopmr.emaespyumOysdqgnpt!-- bymtr.mpjfnbsymsg?”

Pxxbmbx.kpumqpekpnamvtmfergpkgsydmgqbgmsgmlbkmcpetmpjgebreusybet,
syuppu,mbyumgqbgmkqpmqbumyrgmbmktnnbvnpmgrmkbtmaremqsxw

“Sm byyrgmsxbdsyp,”mkbsumXekwmPngry,m(appnsydmgqpmsyusdysgtmbkmbmlsap
r.dqgmgrmur,)m“Sm byyrgmsxbdsypmqrlmqpm r.numurmk. qmbmgqsydmvtmtr.,mra
bnnmfprfnpmsymgqpmlrenu!mGqpmcpetmnbkgmfpekrymlqrxmrypmkqr.numpjfp gmgr
vpmaredrggpy!--XtmupbemXewmPw,mqpmx.kgmqbcpmnpagmbmxpkkbdpmaremtr.,mSmbx
k.epmqpmx.kgw--YrgmpcpymOysdqgnptm r.numvpmkrmcpetmp  pyges ;--byumqsk
kpecbygkmaredrgmsgwmUpfpyum.frymsg,mgqbgmlbkmgqpm bkp:mbyumcpetmnsopnt
grmqbffpymlsgqmgqpmUrylpnnmkpecbygk,mlqrmbepmbnn,mSmqbcpmragpymrvkpecpu,
pjgepxpntmblolbeumbyumepxskkw--Smbxmk.epmSmlr.numyrgmqbcpmk. qmb
 epbg.epmbkmqskmQbeetmkgbyumbgmr.emksupvrbeumarembytm ryksupebgsrywmByu
bkmaremXekwmQrudpk,mLesdqgmqrnukmqpemcpetm qpbfmsyuppuw--Kqpmferxskpu
Lesdqgmbmep psfg,mbyumypcpemkpygmsgw”

“SmxpgmLsnnsbxmNbeosyk,”m rygsy.pumXewmPngry,m“bkmSmdrgmypbemgqpmqr.kp,
byumqpmgrnumxpmSmkqr.numyrgmasyumqskmxbkgpembgmqrxp,mv.gmSmusumyrg
vpnspcpmqsxw--Lsnnsbxmkppxpumebgqpemr.gmramq.xr.ewmQpmusumyrgmoyrlmlqbg
lbkm rxpmgrmqskmxbkgpemnbgpnt,mqpmkbsu,mv.gmqpm r.numqbeuntmpcpemdpgmgqp
kfpp qmramqsxwmSmqbcpmyrgqsydmgrmurmlsgqmLsnnsbx'kmlbygk,mv.gmsgmepbnnt
skmramcpetmdepbgmsxfregby pmgqbgm_S_mkqr.numkppmOysdqgnptmgr-ubt;mbyumsg
vp rxpkmbmxbggpe,mgqpeparep,mramcpetmkpesr.kmsy rycpyspy pmgqbgmSmkqr.nu
qbcpmqbumgqskmqrgmlbnomgrmyrmf.efrkpw”

Pxxbmapngmgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmurmvpggpemgqbymdrmqrxpmusep gntwmSy
bnnmfervbvsnsgtmkqpmlbkmbgmgqskmcpetmgsxpmlbsgpumaremgqpep;mbyumXew
Oysdqgnptmxsdqgmvpmfepkpecpumaerxmksyosydmuppfpemsymbddepkksrymgrlbeuk
XewmPngry,msamyrgmgrlbeukmLsnnsbxmNbeosykw

Kqpmlbkmfnpbkpu,mrymgbosydmnpbcp,mgrmasyumXskkmAbseabjmupgpexsypumgr
bggpyumqpemr.gmramgqpmerrx,mgrmdrmlsgqmqpempcpymurlykgbsek;msgmdbcpmqpe
bymrffreg.ysgtmlqs qmkqpmsxxpusbgpntmxbupm.kpmra,mgrmkbt,

“Sgmskmbkmlpnn,mfpeqbfk,mgqbgmSmqbcpmyrgmqbumgqpmfrkksvsnsgtwmQbumtr.
yrgmvppymk.eer.yupumvtmrgqpemaespyuk,mSmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymgpxfgpumgr
sygeru. pmbmk.vzp g,mgrmbkomh.pkgsryk,mgrmkfpbomxrepmrfpyntmgqbymxsdqg
qbcpmvppymkges gntm reep gw--SmappnmgqbgmSmkqr.num pegbsyntmqbcpmvppy
sxfpegsypygw”

“Rq!”m espumZbyp,mlsgqmbmvn.kqmbyumbymqpksgbgsrymlqs qmPxxbmgqr.dqg
syasysgpntmxrepmvp rxsydmgrmqpemgqbymbnnmgqpmpnpdby pmrambnnmqpem.k.bn
 rxfrk.ep--“gqpepmlr.numqbcpmvppymyrmubydpewmGqpmubydpemlr.numqbcp
vppymramxtmlpbetsydmtr.wmTr.m r.numyrgmqbcpmdebgsaspumxpmxrepmgqby
vtmpjfepkksydmbymsygpepkg--wmSyuppu,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,m(kfpbosydmxrep
 rnnp gpunt,)mlsgqmgqpm ryk sr.kypkkmlqs qmSmqbcpmramxsk ryu. g,mcpet
depbgmxsk ryu. g,msgmskmfbegs .nbentm rykrnsydmgrmxpmgrmoyrlmgqbgmgqrkp
ramxtmaespyuk,mlqrkpmdrrumrfsysrymskmxrkgmlregqmfepkpecsyd,mbepmyrg
uskd.kgpumgrmk. qmbmupdeppmbkmgr--SmqbcpmyrgmgsxpmaremqbnamgqbgmSm r.nu
lskqmgrmkbtwmSmnrydmgrmxbopmbfrnrdspk,mpj .kpk,mgrm.edpmkrxpgqsydmare
xtkpnawmSmappnmsgmkrmcpetmu.pwmV.g,m.yareg.ybgpnt--symkqreg,msamtr.e
 rxfbkksrymurpkmyrgmkgbyumxtmaespyu--”

“Rq!mtr.mbepmgrrmk e.f.nr.k,msyuppumtr.mbep,”m espumPxxbmlbexnt,mbyu
gbosydmqpemqbyuwm“Tr.mrlpmxpmyrmbfrnrdspk;mbyumpcpetmvrutmgrmlqrxmtr.
xsdqgmvpmk.ffrkpumgrmrlpmgqpx,mskmkrmfpeap gntmkbgskaspu,mkrmupnsdqgpu
pcpy--”

“Tr.mbepmcpetmosyu,mv.gmSmoyrlmlqbgmxtmxbyypekmlpepmgrmtr.w--Kr
 rnumbyumbegsas sbn!--Smqbumbnlbtkmbmfbegmgrmb gw--Sgmlbkmbmnsapmra
up psg!--SmoyrlmgqbgmSmx.kgmqbcpmuskd.kgpumtr.w”

“FebtmkbtmyrmxrepwmSmappnmgqbgmbnnmgqpmbfrnrdspkmkqr.numvpmrymxtmksupw
Npgm.kmaredscpmpb qmrgqpembgmry pwmLpmx.kgmurmlqbgpcpemskmgrmvpmuryp
h.s opkg,mbyumSmgqsyomr.emappnsydkmlsnnmnrkpmyrmgsxpmgqpepwmSmqrfpmtr.
qbcpmfnpbkbygmb  r.ygkmaerxmLsyukre?”

“Cpetw”

“Byumgqpmypjgmyplk,mSmk.ffrkp,mlsnnmvp,mgqbgmlpmbepmgrmnrkpmtr.--z.kgmbk
Smvpdsymgrmoyrlmtr.w”

“Rq!mbkmgrmbnnmgqbg,mram r.ekpmyrgqsydm bymvpmgqr.dqgmramtpgwmSmbxmqpep
gsnnm nbsxpumvtm rnrypnmbyumXekwm bxfvpnnw”

“Yrgqsydm bymvpmb g.bnntmkpggnpumtpg,mfpeqbfk,”mepfnspumPxxb,
kxsnsyd--“v.g,mpj .kpmxp,msgmx.kgmvpmgqr.dqgmraw”

Gqpmkxsnpmlbkmepg.eypumbkmZbypmbyklpepu,

“Tr.mbepmcpetmesdqg;msgmqbkmvppymgqr.dqgmrawmByumSmlsnnmrlymgrmtr.,m(S
bxmk.epmsgmlsnnmvpmkbap),mgqbgmkrmabembkmr.emnscsydmlsgqmXewm q.e qsnn
bgmPyk rxvp,msgmskmkpggnpuwmGqpepmx.kgmvpmgqeppmxrygqk,mbgmnpbkg,mra
uppfmxr.eysyd;mv.gmlqpymgqptmbepmrcpe,mSmsxbdsypmgqpepmlsnnmvpmyrgqsyd
xrepmgrmlbsgmarew”

“Gqbyomtr.,mgqbyomtr.w--Gqskmskmz.kgmlqbgmSmlbygpumgrmvpmbkk.epu
raw--Rq!msamtr.moyplmqrlmx. qmSmnrcpmpcpetmgqsydmgqbgmskmup supumbyu
rfpy!--Drru-vtp,mdrru-vtpw”



 QBFGPEmJCSS


XekwmLpkgry'kmaespyukmlpepmbnnmxbupmqbfftmvtmqpemkbapgt;mbyumsamgqp
kbgskab gsrymramqpemlpnn-ursydm r.numvpmsy epbkpumgrmPxxb,msgmlbkmvt
oyrlsydmqpemgrmvpmgqpmxrgqpemrambmnsggnpmdsenwmKqpmqbumvppymup supumsy
lskqsydmarembmXskkmLpkgrywmKqpmlr.numyrgmb oyrlnpudpmgqbgmsgmlbkmlsgq
bytmcsplmramxbosydmbmxbg qmaremqpe,mqpepbagpe,mlsgqmpsgqpemramSkbvpnnb'k
kryk;mv.gmkqpmlbkm rycsy pumgqbgmbmub.dqgpemlr.numk.sgmvrgqmabgqpe
byumxrgqpemvpkgwmSgmlr.numvpmbmdepbgm rxaregmgrmXewmLpkgry,mbkmqpmdepl
rnupe--byumpcpymXewmLpkgrymxsdqgmvpmderlsydmrnupemgpymtpbekmqpy p--gr
qbcpmqskmasepksupmpynscpypumvtmgqpmkfregkmbyumgqpmyrykpykp,mgqpmaepbok
byumgqpmaby spkmrambm qsnumypcpemvbyskqpumaerxmqrxp;mbyumXekwmLpkgry--yr
rypm r.numur.vgmgqbgmbmub.dqgpemlr.numvpmxrkgmgrmqpe;mbyumsgmlr.numvp
h.sgpmbmfsgtmgqbgmbytmrypmlqrmkrmlpnnmoyplmqrlmgrmgpb q,mkqr.numyrgmqbcp
gqpsemfrlpekmsympjpe skpmbdbsyw

“Kqpmqbkmqbumgqpmbucbygbdp,mtr.moyrl,mramfeb gsksydmrymxp,”mkqp
 rygsy.pu--“nsopmNbmVberyypmu'BnxbypmrymNbm rxgpkkpmu'Rkgbnsk,msymXbubxp
upmDpynsk'mBupnbsupmbyumGqprurep,mbyumlpmkqbnnmyrlmkppmqpemrlymnsggnp
Bupnbsupmpu. bgpumrymbmxrepmfpeap gmfnbyw”

“Gqbgmsk,”mepfnspumXewmOysdqgnpt,m“kqpmlsnnmsyu.ndpmqpempcpymxrepmgqby
kqpmusumtr.,mbyumvpnspcpmgqbgmkqpmurpkmyrgmsyu.ndpmqpembgmbnnwmSgmlsnn
vpmgqpmryntmusaapepy pw”

“Frrem qsnu!”m espumPxxb;m“bgmgqbgmebgp,mlqbgmlsnnmvp rxpmramqpe?”

“Yrgqsydmcpetmvbuw--Gqpmabgpmramgqr.kbyukwmKqpmlsnnmvpmuskbdeppbvnp
symsyaby t,mbyum reep gmqpekpnambkmkqpmderlkmrnupewmSmbxmnrksydmbnnmxt
vsggpeypkkmbdbsykgmkfrsngm qsnuepy,mxtmupbepkgmPxxbwmS,mlqrmbxmrlsydmbnn
xtmqbffsypkkmgrm_tr._,mlr.numyrgmsgmvpmqreesvnpmsydebgsg.upmsymxpmgrmvp
kpcpepmrymgqpx?”

Pxxbmnb.dqpu,mbyumepfnspu:m“V.gmSmqbumgqpmbkkskgby pmrambnnmtr.e
pyupbcr.ekmgrm r.ygpeb gmgqpmsyu.ndpy pmramrgqpemfprfnpwmSmur.vgmlqpgqpe
xtmrlymkpykpmlr.numqbcpm reep gpumxpmlsgqr.gmsgw”

“Urmtr.?--Smqbcpmyrmur.vgwmYbg.epmdbcpmtr.m.yupekgbyusyd:--XskkmGbtnre
dbcpmtr.mfesy sfnpkwmTr.mx.kgmqbcpmurypmlpnnwmXtmsygpeapepy pmlbkmh.sgp
bkmnsopntmgrmurmqbexmbkmdrruwmSgmlbkmcpetmybg.ebnmaremtr.mgrmkbt,mlqbg
esdqgmqbkmqpmgrmnp g.epmxp?--byumSmbxmbaebsumcpetmybg.ebnmaremtr.mgr
appnmgqbgmsgmlbkmurypmsymbmuskbdeppbvnpmxbyypewmSmurmyrgmvpnspcpmSmusu
tr.mbytmdrruwmGqpmdrrumlbkmbnnmgrmxtkpna,mvtmxbosydmtr.mbymrvzp gmramgqp
gpyupepkgmbaap gsrymgrmxpwmSm r.numyrgmgqsyombvr.gmtr.mkrmx. qmlsgqr.g
urbgsydmrymtr.,mab.ngkmbyumbnn;mbyumvtmusygmramaby tsydmkrmxbytmpeerek,
qbcpmvppymsymnrcpmlsgqmtr.mpcpemksy pmtr.mlpepmgqsegppymbgmnpbkgw”

“Smbxmk.epmtr.mlpepmram.kpmgrmxp,”m espumPxxbwm“Smlbkmcpetmragpy
syan.py pumesdqgntmvtmtr.--ragpypemgqbymSmlr.numrlymbgmgqpmgsxpwmS
bxmcpetmk.epmtr.musumxpmdrruwmByumsamfrremnsggnpmByybmLpkgrymskmgrmvp
kfrsnpu,msgmlsnnmvpmgqpmdepbgpkgmq.xbysgtmsymtr.mgrmurmbkmx. qmaremqpe
bkmtr.mqbcpmurypmaremxp,mpj pfgmabnnsydmsymnrcpmlsgqmqpemlqpymkqpmsk
gqsegppyw”

“Qrlmragpy,mlqpymtr.mlpepmbmdsen,mqbcpmtr.mkbsumgrmxp,mlsgqmrypmramtr.e
kb. tmnrrok--'XewmOysdqgnpt,mSmbxmdrsydmgrmurmkr-byu-kr;mfbfbmkbtkmS
xbt,mremSmqbcpmXskkmGbtnre'kmnpbcp'--krxpgqsydmlqs q,mtr.moypl,mS
usumyrgmbffercpwmSymk. qm bkpkmxtmsygpeapepy pmlbkmdscsydmtr.mglrmvbu
appnsydkmsykgpbumramrypw”

“Lqbgmbymbxsbvnpm epbg.epmSmlbk!--Yrmlryupemtr.mkqr.numqrnumxtmkfpp qpk
symk. qmbaap gsrybgpmepxpxveby pw”

“'XewmOysdqgnptw'--Tr.mbnlbtkm bnnpumxp,m'XewmOysdqgnpt;'mbyu,maerx
qbvsg,msgmqbkmyrgmkrmcpetmarexbnmbmkr.yuw--ByumtpgmsgmskmarexbnwmSmlbyg
tr.mgrm bnnmxpmkrxpgqsydmpnkp,mv.gmSmurmyrgmoyrlmlqbgw”

“Smepxpxvpemry pm bnnsydmtr.m'Dpredp,'msymrypmramxtmbxsbvnpmasgk,mbvr.g
gpymtpbekmbdrwmSmusumsgmvp b.kpmSmgqr.dqgmsgmlr.numraapyumtr.;mv.g,mbk
tr.mxbupmyrmrvzp gsry,mSmypcpemusumsgmbdbsyw”

“Byum byyrgmtr.m bnnmxpm'Dpredp'myrl?”

“Sxfrkksvnp!--Smypcpem bym bnnmtr.mbytmgqsydmv.gm'XewmOysdqgnptw'mS
lsnnmyrgmferxskpmpcpymgrmph.bnmgqpmpnpdbygmgpekpypkkmramXekwmPngry,mvt
 bnnsydmtr.mXewmOw--V.gmSmlsnnmferxskp,”mkqpmbuupumfepkpygnt,mnb.dqsyd
byumvn.kqsyd--“Smlsnnmferxskpmgrm bnnmtr.mry pmvtmtr.em qeskgsbymybxpw
Smurmyrgmkbtmlqpy,mv.gmfpeqbfkmtr.mxbtmd.pkkmlqpep;--symgqpmv.snusydmsy
lqs qmYwmgbopkmXwmaremvpggpe,maremlrekpw”

Pxxbmdespcpumgqbgmkqpm r.numyrgmvpmxrepmrfpyntmz.kgmgrmrypmsxfregbyg
kpecs pmlqs qmqskmvpggpemkpykpmlr.numqbcpmepyupepumqpe,mgrmgqp
bucs pmlqs qmlr.numqbcpmkbcpumqpemaerxmgqpmlrekgmrambnnmqpemlrxbynt
arnnspk--qpemlsna.nmsygsxb tmlsgqmQbeespgmKxsgq;mv.gmsgmlbkmgrrmgpyupemb
k.vzp gw--Kqpm r.numyrgmpygpemrymsgw--Qbeespgmlbkmcpetmkpnurxmxpygsrypu
vpglppymgqpxwmGqsk,mrymqskmksup,mxsdqgmxpepntmfer ppumaerxmqpemyrgmvpsyd
gqr.dqgmra;mv.gmPxxbmlbkmebgqpemsy nsypumgrmbggesv.gpmsgmgrmupns b t,
byumbmk.kfs sry,maerxmkrxpmbffpbeby pk,mgqbgmgqpsemaespyukqsfmlpep
up nsysydwmKqpmlbkmblbepmqpekpna,mgqbg,mfbegsydm.yupembytmrgqpe
 se .xkgby pk,mgqptm pegbsyntmkqr.numqbcpm reepkfryupumxrep,mbyumgqbg
qpemsygpnnsdpy pmlr.numyrgmqbcpmepkgpu,mbkmsgmyrlmbnxrkgmlqrnntmusu,mry
Skbvpnnb'kmnpggpekwmQpmxsdqgmrvkpecpmgqbgmsgmlbkmkrwmGqpmfbsymramvpsyd
rvnsdpumgrmfeb gskpm ry pbnxpygmgrlbeukmqsx,mlbkmcpetmnsggnpmsyapesremgr
gqpmfbsymramqbcsydmxbupmQbeespgm.yqbfftw

Skbvpnnbmkpygmh.sgpmbkmdrrumbymb  r.ygmramqpemcsksgrembkm r.numvp
pjfp gpu;mrymqpemasekgmbeescbnmkqpmqbumgqr.dqgmqpemr.gmramkfsesgk,mlqs q
bffpbepumfpeap gntmybg.ebn,mbkmgqpepmlbkmbmupygskgmgrmvpm ryk.ngpu;mv.g,
ksy pmgqbgmv.ksypkkmqbumvppymrcpe,mkqpmusumyrgmbffpbemgrmasyumQbeespg
usaapepygmaerxmlqbgmkqpmqbumoyrlymqpemvparepw--Skbvpnnb,mgrmvpmk.ep,
lbkmyrmcpetmh.s omrvkpecpe;mtpgmsamQbeespgmqbumyrgmvppymph.bnmgrmfnbtsyd
lsgqmgqpm qsnuepy,msgmlr.numyrgmqbcpmpk bfpumqpewmPxxb'km rxaregkmbyu
qrfpkmlpepmxrkgmbdeppbvntm beespumry,mvtmQbeespg'kmvpsydmgrmkgbtmnrydpe;
qpemaregysdqgmlbkmnsopntmgrmvpmbmxrygqmbgmnpbkgwmXewmbyumXekwmZrqy
Oysdqgnptmlpepmgrm rxpmurlymsymB.d.kg,mbyumkqpmlbkmsycsgpumgrmepxbsy
gsnnmgqptm r.numvesydmqpemvb ow

“Zrqymurpkmyrgmpcpymxpygsrymtr.emaespyu,”mkbsumXewmOysdqgnptwm“Qpepmsk
qskmbyklpe,msamtr.mnsopmgrmkppmsgw”

Sgmlbkmgqpmbyklpemgrmgqpm rxx.ys bgsrymramqskmsygpyupumxbeesbdpwmPxxb
b  pfgpumsgmlsgqmbmcpetmpbdpemqbyu,mlsgqmbymsxfbgspy pmbnnmbnscpmgrmoyrl
lqbgmqpmlr.numkbtmbvr.gmsg,mbyumyrgmbgmbnnm qp opumvtmqpbesydmgqbgmqpe
aespyumlbkm.yxpygsrypuw

“Zrqympygpekmnsopmbmvergqpemsygrmxtmqbffsypkk,”m rygsy.pumXewmOysdqgnpt,
“v.gmqpmskmyrm rxfnsxpygpe;mbyumgqr.dqmSmlpnnmoyrlmqsxmgrmqbcp,
nsoplskp,mbmxrkgmvergqpentmbaap gsrymaremtr.,mqpmskmkrmabemaerxmxbosyd
anr.eskqpk,mgqbgmbytmrgqpemtr.ydmlrxbymxsdqgmgqsyomqsxmebgqpem rrnmsy
qpemfebskpwmV.gmSmbxmyrgmbaebsumramtr.emkppsydmlqbgmqpmlesgpkw”

“Qpmlesgpkmnsopmbmkpyksvnpmxby,”mepfnspumPxxb,mlqpymkqpmqbumepbumgqp
npggpewm“Smqryr.emqskmksy pesgtwmSgmskmcpetmfnbsymgqbgmqpm ryksupekmgqp
drrumareg.ypmramgqpmpydbdpxpygmbkmbnnmrymxtmksup,mv.gmgqbgmqpmskmyrg
lsgqr.gmqrfpmramxtmderlsyd,msymgsxp,mbkmlregqtmramtr.embaap gsry,mbk
tr.mgqsyomxpmbnepbutwmQbumqpmkbsumbytmgqsydmgrmvpbembmusaapepyg
 rykge. gsry,mSmkqr.numyrgmqbcpmvpnspcpumqsxw”

“XtmPxxb,mqpmxpbykmyrmk. qmgqsydwmQpmryntmxpbyk--”

“QpmbyumSmkqr.numusaapemcpetmnsggnpmsymr.empkgsxbgsrymramgqpmglr,”
msygpee.fgpumkqp,mlsgqmbmkregmramkpesr.kmkxsnp--“x. qmnpkk,mfpeqbfk,mgqby
qpmskmblbepmra,msamlpm r.numpygpemlsgqr.gm pepxrytmremepkpecpmrymgqp
k.vzp gw”

“Pxxb,mxtmupbemPxxb--”

“Rq!”mkqpm espumlsgqmxrepmgqrer.dqmdbspgt,m“samtr.maby tmtr.emvergqpe
urpkmyrgmurmxpmz.kgs p,mryntmlbsgmgsnnmxtmupbemabgqpemskmsymgqpmkp epg,
byumqpbemqskmrfsysrywmUpfpyum.frymsg,mqpmlsnnmvpmx. qmabegqpemaerxmursyd
_tr._mz.kgs pwmQpmlsnnmgqsyombnnmgqpmqbffsypkk,mbnnmgqpmbucbygbdp,mry
tr.emksupmramgqpmh.pkgsry;mbnnmgqpmxpesgmrymxsypwmSmlskqmSmxbtmyrg
ksyomsygrm'frremPxxb'mlsgqmqsxmbgmry pw--Qskmgpyupem rxfbkksrymgrlbeuk
rffepkkpumlregqm bymdrmyrmabegqpew”

“Bq!”mqpm espu,m“Smlskqmtr.emabgqpemxsdqgmvpmqbnambkmpbksntm rycsy pumbk
Zrqymlsnnmvp,mramr.emqbcsydmpcpetmesdqgmgqbgmph.bnmlregqm bymdscp,mgrmvp
qbfftmgrdpgqpewmSmbxmbx.kpumvtmrypmfbegmramZrqy'kmnpggpe--usumtr.myrgs p
sg?--lqpepmqpmkbtk,mgqbgmxtmsyarexbgsrymusumyrgmgbopmqsxmlqrnntmvt
k.efesip,mgqbgmqpmlbkmebgqpemsympjfp gbgsrymramqpbesydmkrxpgqsydmramgqp
osyuw”

“SamSm.yupekgbyumtr.emvergqpe,mqpmryntmxpbykmkrmabembkmtr.emqbcsyd
krxpmgqr.dqgkmramxbeetsydwmQpmqbumyrmsupbmramxpwmQpmkppxkmfpeap gnt
.yfepfbepumaremgqbgw”

“Tpk,mtpk--v.gmSmbxmbx.kpumgqbgmqpmkqr.numqbcpmkppymkrmabemsygrmxt
appnsydkwmLqbgmqbkmqpmvppymz.udsydmvt?--Smbxmyrgm ryk sr.kmrambyt
usaapepy pmsymxtmkfsesgkmrem rycpekbgsrymgqbgm r.numfepfbepmqsxmbg
gqskmgsxpmaremxtmxbeetsydmbytmxrepmgqbymbgmbyrgqpew--V.gmsgmlbkmkr,mS
k.ffrkpwmSmubepmkbtmgqpepmlbkmbmusaapepy pmlqpymSmlbkmkgbtsydmlsgqmgqpx
gqpmrgqpemubtwmSmvpnspcpmSmusumyrgmfnbtmlsgqmgqpm qsnuepymh.sgpmkrmx. q
bkm.k.bnwmSmepxpxvpemrypmpcpysydmgqpmfrremvrtkmkbtsyd,m'.y npmkppxk
bnlbtkmgsepumyrlw'”

Gqpmgsxpmlbkm rxsydmlqpymgqpmyplkmx.kgmkfepbumabegqpe,mbyumrgqpe
fpekryk'mep pfgsrymramsgmgespuwmBkmkrrymbkmXekwmLpkgrymlbkmk.aas spygnt
ep rcpepumgrmbuxsgmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmcsksgk,mPxxbmqbcsydmsgmsymcsplmgqbg
qpemdpygnpmepbkrysydkmkqr.numvpmpxfnrtpumsymgqpm b.kp,mepkrncpumasekgmgr
byyr.y pmsgmbgmqrxp,mbyumgqpymbgmEbyubnnkw--V.gmqrlmgrmvepbomsgmgrmqpe
abgqpembgmnbkg!--Kqpmqbumvr.yumqpekpnamgrmurmsg,msymk. qmbymqr.emramXew
Oysdqgnpt'kmbvkpy p,mremlqpymsgm bxpmgrmgqpmfrsygmqpemqpbegmlr.numqbcp
absnpumqpe,mbyumkqpmx.kgmqbcpmf.gmsgmraa;mv.gmXewmOysdqgnptmlbkmgrm rxp
bgmk. qmbmgsxp,mbyumarnnrlm.fmgqpmvpdsyysydmkqpmlbkmgrmxbopw--Kqpmlbk
are pumgrmkfpbo,mbyumgrmkfpbom qppea.nntmgrrwmKqpmx.kgmyrgmxbopmsgmb
xrepmup supumk.vzp gmramxskpetmgrmqsx,mvtmbmxpnby qrntmgrypmqpekpnaw
Kqpmx.kgmyrgmbffpbemgrmgqsyomsgmbmxskareg.ypw--Lsgqmbnnmgqpmkfsesgkmkqp
 r.num rxxbyu,mkqpmfepfbepumqsxmasekgmaremkrxpgqsydmkgebydp,mbyumgqpy,
symbmaplmlreuk,mkbsu,mgqbgmsamqskm rykpygmbyumbffervbgsrym r.numvp
rvgbsypu--lqs q,mkqpmge.kgpu,mlr.numvpmbggpyupumlsgqmyrmusaas .ngt,
ksy pmsgmlbkmbmfnbymgrmferxrgpmgqpmqbffsypkkmrambnn--kqpmbyumXew
Oysdqgnptmxpbygmgrmxbeet;mvtmlqs qmxpbykmQbegaspnumlr.numep pscpmgqp
 rykgbygmbuusgsrymramgqbgmfpekry'km rxfbytmlqrxmkqpmoyplmqpmnrcpu,mypjg
grmqskmub.dqgpekmbyumXekwmLpkgry,mvpkgmsymgqpmlrenuw

Frremxby!--sgmlbkmbgmasekgmbm ryksupebvnpmkqr omgrmqsx,mbyumqpmgespu
pbeypkgntmgrmuskk.bupmqpemaerxmsgwmKqpmlbkmepxsyupu,mxrepmgqbymry p,mra
qbcsydmbnlbtkmkbsumkqpmlr.numypcpemxbeet,mbyumbkk.epumgqbgmsgmlr.numvp
bmdepbgmupbnmvpggpemaremqpemgrmepxbsymksydnp;mbyumgrnumramfrremSkbvpnnb,
byumfrremXskkmGbtnrew--V.gmsgmlr.numyrgmurwmPxxbmq.ydmbvr.gmqsx
baap gsrybgpnt,mbyumkxsnpu,mbyumkbsumsgmx.kgmvpmkr;mbyumgqbgmqpmx.kg
yrgm nbkkmqpemlsgqmSkbvpnnbmbyumXekwmLpkgry,mlqrkpmxbeesbdpkmgbosydmgqpx
aerxmQbegaspnu,mqbu,msyuppu,mxbupmbmxpnby qrntm qbydp:mv.gmkqpmlbkmyrg
drsydmaerxmQbegaspnu;mkqpmkqr.numvpmbnlbtkmgqpep;mkqpmlbkmsygeru. syd
yrm qbydpmsymgqpsemy.xvpekmremgqpsem rxaregkmv.gmaremgqpmvpggpe;mbyumkqp
lbkmcpetmk.epmgqbgmqpmlr.numvpmbmdepbgmupbnmgqpmqbffspemaremqbcsydmXew
Oysdqgnptmbnlbtkmbgmqbyu,mlqpymqpmlpepmry pmdrgm.kpumgrmgqpmsupbw--Usu
qpmyrgmnrcpmXewmOysdqgnptmcpetmx. q?--Qpmlr.numyrgmupytmgqbgmqpmusu,
kqpmlbkmk.epw--Lqrxmusumqpmpcpemlbygmgrm ryk.ngmrymv.ksypkkmv.gmXew
Oysdqgnpt?--Lqrmlbkmkrm.kpa.nmgrmqsx,mlqrmkrmepbutmgrmlesgpmqskmnpggpek,
lqrmkrmdnbumgrmbkkskgmqsx?--Lqrmkrm qppea.n,mkrmbggpygscp,mkrmbggb qpu
grmqsx?--Lr.numyrgmqpmnsopmgrmqbcpmqsxmbnlbtkmrymgqpmkfrg?--TpkwmGqbg
lbkmbnnmcpetmge.pwmXewmOysdqgnptm r.numyrgmvpmgqpepmgrrmragpy;mqpmkqr.nu
vpmdnbumgrmkppmqsxmpcpetmubt;--v.gmgqptmusumkppmqsxmpcpetmubtmbkmsg
lbkw--Lqtm r.numyrgmgqptmdrmrymbkmgqptmqbumuryp?

XewmLrruqr.kpm r.numyrgmvpmkrrymep ry snpu;mv.gmgqpmlrekgmlbkmrcpe rxp,
gqpmsupbmlbkmdscpy;mgsxpmbyum rygsy.bnmepfpgsgsrymx.kgmurmgqpmepkgw--Gr
Pxxb'kmpygepbgspkmbyumbkk.eby pkmk.  ppupumXewmOysdqgnpt'k,mlqrkpmaryu
febskpmramqpemdbcpmgqpmk.vzp gmpcpymbmosyumramlpn rxp;mbyumqpmlbkmkrry
.kpumgrmvpmgbnopumgrmvtmpb q,mrympcpetmabsemr  bksryw--Gqptmqbumbnn
gqpmbkkskgby pmlqs qmSkbvpnnbm r.numdscp,mvtmnpggpekmramgqpmkgerydpkg
bffervbgsry;mbyumXekwmLpkgrymlbkmepbut,mrymgqpmasekgmxppgsyd,mgr
 ryksupemgqpmk.vzp gmsymgqpmxrkgmkpecs pbvnpmnsdqg--asekg,mbkmbmkpggnpu,
byu,mkp ryunt,mbkmbmdrrumryp--lpnnmblbepmramgqpmypbentmph.bnmsxfregby p
ramgqpmglrmep rxxpyubgsrykmgrmXewmLrruqr.kp'kmxsyuw--Sgmlbkmbdeppu
.fry,mbkmlqbgmlbkmgrmvp;mbyumpcpetmvrutmvtmlqrxmqpmlbkm.kpumgrmvp
d.supumbkk.esydmqsxmgqbgmsgmlr.numvpmaremqskmqbffsypkk;mbyumqbcsydmkrxp
appnsydkmqsxkpnamlqs qmbnxrkgmbuxsggpumsg,mqpmvpdbymgrmgqsyomgqbgmkrxp
gsxpmremrgqpe--symbyrgqpemtpbemremglr,mfpeqbfk--sgmxsdqgmyrgmvpmkrmcpet
vbumsamgqpmxbeesbdpmusumgbopmfnb pw

XekwmLpkgrymlbkmb gsydmyrmfbeg,mapsdysydmyrmappnsydkmsymbnnmgqbgmkqp
kbsumgrmqsxmsymabcr.emramgqpmpcpygw--Kqpmqbumvppympjgepxpntmk.efesipu,
ypcpemxrepmkr,mgqbymlqpymPxxbmasekgmrfpypumgqpmbaabsemgrmqpe;mv.gmkqp
kblmsymsgmryntmsy epbkpmramqbffsypkkmgrmbnn,mbyumqbumyrmk e.fnpmsy
.edsydmqsxmgrmgqpm.gxrkgw--Kqpmqbumk. qmbmepdbeumaremXewmOysdqgnpt,mbk
grmgqsyomqpmupkpecpumpcpymqpemupbepkgmPxxb;mbyumsgmlbkmsympcpetmepkfp g
krmferfpe,mk.sgbvnp,mbyum.ypj pfgsrybvnpmbm ryypjsry,mbyumsymryp
epkfp g,mrypmfrsygmramgqpmqsdqpkgmsxfregby p,mkrmfp .nsbentmpnsdsvnp,
krmksyd.nbentmareg.ybgp,mgqbgmyrlmsgmkppxpumbkmsamPxxbm r.numyrgmkbapnt
qbcpmbggb qpumqpekpnamgrmbytmrgqpem epbg.ep,mbyumgqbgmkqpmqbumqpekpna
vppymgqpmkg.fsupkgmramvpsydkmsymyrgmqbcsydmgqr.dqgmramsg,mbyumlskqpumsg
nrydmbdrw--QrlmcpetmaplmramgqrkpmxpymsymbmebyomramnsapmgrmbuuepkkmPxxb
lr.numqbcpmepyr.y pumgqpsemrlymqrxpmaremQbegaspnu!mByumlqrmv.gmXew
Oysdqgnptm r.numoyrlmbyumvpbemlsgqmXewmLrruqr.kp,mkrmbkmgrmxbopmk. q
bymbeebydpxpygmupksebvnp!--Gqpmusaas .ngtmramuskfrksydmramfrremXew
Lrruqr.kpmqbumvppymbnlbtkmapngmsymqpemq.kvbyu'kmfnbykmbyumqpemrly,mare
bmxbeesbdpmvpglppymAebyombyumPxxbwmQrlmgrmkpggnpmgqpm nbsxkmramPyk rxvp
byumQbegaspnumqbumvppymbm rygsy.bnmsxfpusxpyg--npkkmb oyrlnpudpumvtmXew
Lpkgrymgqbymvtmqpekpna--v.gmpcpymqpmqbumypcpemvppymbvnpmgrmasyskq
gqpmk.vzp gmvpggpemgqbymvtmkbtsyd--“Gqrkpmxbggpekmlsnnmgbopm bepmra
gqpxkpncpk;mgqpmtr.ydmfprfnpmlsnnmasyumbmlbtw”mV.gmqpepmgqpepmlbk
yrgqsydmgrmvpmkqsagpumraamsymbmlsnumkfp .nbgsrymrymgqpma.g.epwmSgmlbk
bnnmesdqg,mbnnmrfpy,mbnnmph.bnwmYrmkb esas pmrymbytmksupmlregqmgqpmybxpw
Sgmlbkmbm.ysrymramgqpmqsdqpkgmferxskpmramapns sgtmsymsgkpna,mbyumlsgqr.g
rypmepbn,mebgsrybnmusaas .ngtmgrmrffrkpmremupnbtmsgw

XekwmLpkgry,mlsgqmqpemvbvtmrymqpemoypp,msyu.ndsydmsymk. qmepanp gsryk
bkmgqpkp,mlbkmrypmramgqpmqbffspkgmlrxpymsymgqpmlrenuwmSambytmgqsydm r.nu
sy epbkpmqpemupnsdqg,msgmlbkmfpe pscsydmgqbgmgqpmvbvtmlr.numkrrymqbcp
r.gderlymsgkmasekgmkpgmram bfkw

Gqpmyplkmlbkm.yscpekbnntmbmk.efesipmlqpepcpemsgmkfepbu;mbyumXewmLpkgry
qbumqskmascpmxsy.gpkmkqbepmramsg;mv.gmascpmxsy.gpkmlpepmpyr.dqmgr
abxsnsbeskpmgqpmsupbmgrmqskmh.s oypkkmramxsyuw--Qpmkblmgqpmbucbygbdpk
ramgqpmxbg q,mbyumepzrs pumsymgqpxmlsgqmbnnmgqpm rykgby tmramqskmlsap;
v.gmgqpmlryupemramsgmlbkmcpetmkrrymyrgqsyd;mbyumvtmgqpmpyumrambymqr.emqp
lbkmyrgmabemaerxmvpnspcsydmgqbgmqpmqbumbnlbtkmarepkppymsgw

“Sgmskmgrmvpmbmkp epg,mSm ry n.up,”mkbsumqpwm“Gqpkpmxbggpekmbepmbnlbtkmb
kp epg,mgsnnmsgmskmar.yumr.gmgqbgmpcpetmvrutmoyrlkmgqpxwmRyntmnpgmxpmvp
grnumlqpymSmxbtmkfpbomr.gw--SmlryupemlqpgqpemZbypmqbkmbytmk.kfs sryw”

QpmlpygmgrmQsdqv.etmgqpmypjgmxreysyd,mbyumkbgskaspumqsxkpnamrymgqbg
frsygwmQpmgrnumqpemgqpmyplkwmLbkmyrgmkqpmnsopmbmub.dqgpe,mqskmpnupkg
ub.dqgpe?--qpmx.kgmgpnnmqpe;mbyumXskkmVbgpkmvpsydmfepkpyg,msgmfbkkpu,
ram r.ekp,mgrmXekwm rnp,mXekwmFpeet,mbyumXekwmPngry,msxxpusbgpnt
bagpelbeukwmSgmlbkmyrmxrepmgqbymgqpmfesy sfbnkmlpepmfepfbepumare;mgqpt
qbum bn .nbgpumaerxmgqpmgsxpmramsgkmvpsydmoyrlymbgmEbyubnnk,mqrlmkrrymsg
lr.numvpmrcpemQsdqv.et;mbyumlpepmgqsyosydmramgqpxkpncpk,mbkmgqpmpcpysyd
lryupemsymxbytmbmabxsntm se np,mlsgqmdepbgmkbdb sgtw

Symdpypebn,msgmlbkmbmcpetmlpnnmbffercpumxbg qwmKrxpmxsdqgmgqsyomqsx,mbyu
rgqpekmxsdqgmgqsyomqpe,mgqpmxrkgmsymn. owmRypmkpgmxsdqgmep rxxpyumgqpse
bnnmepxrcsydmgrmUrylpnn,mbyumnpbcsydmQbegaspnumaremgqpmZrqymOysdqgnptk;
byumbyrgqpemxsdqgmfepus gmuskbdeppxpygkmbxrydmgqpsemkpecbygk;mv.gmtpg,
.frymgqpmlqrnp,mgqpepmlbkmyrmkpesr.kmrvzp gsrymebskpu,mpj pfgmsymryp
qbvsgbgsry,mgqpmCs bebdpw--Gqpep,mgqpmk.efesipmlbkmyrgmkragpypumvtmbyt
kbgskab gsrywmXewmPngrym bepumnsggnpmbvr.gmsg,m rxfbepumlsgqmqskmlsap;
qpmryntmqrfpum“gqpmtr.ydmnbut'kmfesupmlr.numyrlmvpm rygpygpu;”mbyu
k.ffrkpum“kqpmqbumbnlbtkmxpbygmgrm bg qmOysdqgnptmsamkqpm r.nu;”mbyu,
rymgqpmfrsygmramnscsydmbgmQbegaspnu,m r.numubesydntmpj nbsx,m“Ebgqpe
qpmgqbymS!”--V.gmXekwmPngrymlbkmcpetmx. qmusk rxfrkpumsyuppuw--“Frre
Oysdqgnpt!mfrremapnnrl!--kbumv.ksypkkmaremqsxw”--Kqpmlbkmpjgepxpnt
 ry peypu;mare,mgqr.dqmcpetmp  pyges ,mqpmqbumbmgqr.kbyumdrru
h.bnsgspkw--Qrlm r.numqpmvpmkrmgbopymsy?--Usumyrgmgqsyomqsxmbgmbnnmsy
nrcp--yrgmsymgqpmnpbkgw--FrremOysdqgnpt!--Gqpepmlr.numvpmbympyumrambnn
fnpbkbygmsygpe r.ekpmlsgqmqsxw--Qrlmqbfftmqpmqbumvppymgrm rxpmbyumusyp
lsgqmgqpxmlqpypcpemgqptmbkopumqsx!mV.gmgqbgmlr.numvpmbnnmrcpemyrlw--Frre
apnnrl!--YrmxrepmpjfnresydmfbegspkmgrmUrylpnnmxbupmarem_qpe_wmRq!
yr;mgqpepmlr.numvpmbmXekwmOysdqgnptmgrmgqerlm rnumlbgpemrympcpet
gqsydw--Pjgepxpntmuskbdeppbvnp!mV.gmkqpmlbkmyrgmbgmbnnmkreetmgqbg
kqpmqbumbv.kpumgqpmqr.kpoppfpemgqpmrgqpemubtw--Kqr osydmfnby,mnscsyd
grdpgqpewmSgmlr.numypcpemurwmKqpmoyplmbmabxsntmypbemXbfnpmDercpmlqr
qbumgespumsg,mbyumvppymrvnsdpumgrmkpfbebgpmvparepmgqpmpyumramgqpmasekg
h.begpew



 QBFGPEmJCSSS


GsxpmfbkkpumrywmBmaplmxrepmgr-xreerlk,mbyumgqpmfbegtmaerxmNryurymlr.nu
vpmbeescsydwmSgmlbkmbymbnbexsydm qbydp;mbyumPxxbmlbkmgqsyosydmramsgmryp
xreysyd,mbkmlqbgmx.kgmvesydmbmdepbgmupbnmgrmbdsgbgpmbyumdespcpmqpe,mlqpy
XewmOysdqgnptm bxpmsy,mbyumuskgepkksydmgqr.dqgkmlpepmf.gmvtwmBagpemgqp
asekgm qbgmramfnpbk.epmqpmlbkmksnpyg;mbyumgqpy,msymbmdebcpemgryp,mvpdby
lsgq,

“Smqbcpmkrxpgqsydmgrmgpnnmtr.,mPxxb;mkrxpmyplkw”

“Drrumremvbu?”mkbsumkqp,mh.s ont,mnrrosydm.fmsymqskmab pw

“Smurmyrgmoyrlmlqs qmsgmr.dqgmgrmvpm bnnpuw”

“Rq!mdrrumSmbxmk.epw--Smkppmsgmsymtr.em r.ygpyby pwmTr.mbepmgetsydmyrg
grmkxsnpw”

“Smbxmbaebsu,”mkbsumqp,m rxfrksydmqskmapbg.epk,m“Smbxmcpetmx. qmbaebsu,
xtmupbemPxxb,mgqbgmtr.mlsnnmyrgmkxsnpmlqpymtr.mqpbemsgw”

“Syuppu!mv.gmlqtmkr?--Sm bymqbeuntmsxbdsypmgqbgmbytmgqsydmlqs qmfnpbkpk
rembx.kpkmtr.,mkqr.numyrgmfnpbkpmbyumbx.kpmxpmgrrw”

“Gqpepmskmrypmk.vzp g,”mqpmepfnspu,m“Smqrfpmv.gmryp,mrymlqs qmlpmurmyrg
gqsyombnsopw”mQpmfb.kpumbmxrxpyg,mbdbsymkxsnsyd,mlsgqmqskmptpkmasjpumry
qpemab pwm“Urpkmyrgqsydmr  .emgrmtr.?--Urmyrgmtr.mep rnnp g?--Qbeespg
Kxsgqw”

Qpem qppokman.kqpumbgmgqpmybxp,mbyumkqpmapngmbaebsumramkrxpgqsyd,mgqr.dq
kqpmoyplmyrgmlqbgw

“Qbcpmtr.mqpbeumaerxmqpemtr.ekpnamgqskmxreysyd?”m espumqpwm“Tr.mqbcp,mS
vpnspcp,mbyumoyrlmgqpmlqrnpw”

“Yr,mSmqbcpmyrg;mSmoyrlmyrgqsyd;mfebtmgpnnmxpw”

“Tr.mbepmfepfbepumaremgqpmlrekg,mSmkpp--byumcpetmvbumsgmskwmQbeespg
KxsgqmxbeespkmErvpegmXbegsyw”

Pxxbmdbcpmbmkgbeg,mlqs qmusumyrgmkppxmnsopmvpsydmfepfbepu--byumqpemptpk,
sympbdpemdbip,mkbsu,m“Yr,mgqskmskmsxfrkksvnp!”mv.gmqpemnsfkmlpepm nrkpuw

“Sgmskmkr,msyuppu,”m rygsy.pumXewmOysdqgnpt;m“SmqbcpmsgmaerxmErvpeg
XbegsymqsxkpnawmQpmnpagmxpmyrgmqbnambymqr.embdrw”

Kqpmlbkmkgsnnmnrrosydmbgmqsxmlsgqmgqpmxrkgmkfpbosydmbxbipxpygw

“Tr.mnsopmsg,mxtmPxxb,mbkmnsggnpmbkmSmapbepuw--Smlskqmr.emrfsysrykmlpep
gqpmkbxpwmV.gmsymgsxpmgqptmlsnnwmGsxp,mtr.mxbtmvpmk.ep,mlsnnmxbopmryp
remgqpmrgqpemram.kmgqsyomusaapepygnt;mbyu,msymgqpmxpbylqsnp,mlpmyppumyrg
gbnomx. qmrymgqpmk.vzp gw”

“Tr.mxskgbopmxp,mtr.mh.sgpmxskgbopmxp,”mkqpmepfnspu,mpjpegsydmqpekpnaw
“Sgmskmyrgmgqbgmk. qmbm se .xkgby pmlr.numyrlmxbopmxpm.yqbfft,mv.gmS
 byyrgmvpnspcpmsgwmSgmkppxkmbymsxfrkksvsnsgt!--Tr.m byyrgmxpbymgrmkbt,
gqbgmQbeespgmKxsgqmqbkmb  pfgpumErvpegmXbegsywmTr.m byyrgmxpbymgqbgmqp
qbkmpcpymferfrkpumgrmqpembdbsy--tpgwmTr.mryntmxpby,mgqbgmqpmsygpyukmsgw”

“Smxpbymgqbgmqpmqbkmurypmsg,”mbyklpepumXewmOysdqgnpt,mlsgqmkxsnsydmv.g
upgpexsypumup sksry,m“byumvppymb  pfgpuw”

“DrrumDru!”mkqpm espuw--“Lpnn!”--Gqpymqbcsydmep r.ekpmgrmqpemlreovbkopg,
sympj .kpmaremnpbysydmurlymqpemab p,mbyum ry pbnsydmbnnmgqpmpjh.sksgp
appnsydkmramupnsdqgmbyumpygpegbsyxpygmlqs qmkqpmoyplmkqpmx.kgmvp
pjfepkksyd,mkqpmbuupu,m“Lpnn,myrlmgpnnmxpmpcpetmgqsyd;mxbopmgqsk
sygpnnsdsvnpmgrmxpwmQrl,mlqpep,mlqpy?--NpgmxpmoyrlmsgmbnnwmSmypcpemlbk
xrepmk.efesipu--v.gmsgmurpkmyrgmxbopmxpm.yqbfft,mSmbkk.epmtr.w--Qrl--qrl
qbkmsgmvppymfrkksvnp?”

“SgmskmbmcpetmksxfnpmkgretwmQpmlpygmgrmgrlymrymv.ksypkkmgqeppmubtkmbdr,
byumSmdrgmqsxmgrmgbopm qbedpmramkrxpmfbfpekmlqs qmSmlbkmlbygsydmgrmkpyu
grmZrqyw--QpmupnscpepumgqpkpmfbfpekmgrmZrqy,mbgmqskm qbxvpek,mbyumlbk
bkopumvtmqsxmgrmzrsymgqpsemfbegtmgqpmkbxpmpcpysydmgrmBkgnpt'kwmGqptmlpep
drsydmgrmgbopmgqpmglrmpnupkgmvrtkmgrmBkgnpt'kwmGqpmfbegtmlbkmgrmvpmr.e
vergqpembyumkskgpe,mQpyet,mZrqy--byumXskkmKxsgqwmXtmaespyumErvpegm r.nu
yrgmepkskgwmGqptm bnnpumaremqsxmsymgqpsemlbt;mlpepmbnnmpjgepxpntmbx.kpu;
byumxtmvergqpembkopumqsxmgrmusypmlsgqmgqpxmgqpmypjgmubt--lqs qmqp
usu--byumsymgqpm r.ekpmramgqbgmcsksgm(bkmSm.yupekgbyu)mqpmar.yumby
rffreg.ysgtmramkfpbosydmgrmQbeespg;mbyum pegbsyntmusumyrgmkfpbo
symcbsyw--Kqpmxbupmqsx,mvtmqpemb  pfgby p,mbkmqbfftmpcpymbkmqpmsk
upkpecsydwmQpm bxpmurlymvtmtpkgpeubt'km rb q,mbyumlbkmlsgqmxpmgqsk
xreysydmsxxpusbgpntmbagpemvepboabkg,mgrmepfregmqskmfer ppusydk,masekg
rymxtmbaabsek,mbyumgqpymrymqskmrlywmGqskmskmbnnmgqbgmSm bymepnbgpmra
gqpmqrl,mlqpep,mbyumlqpywmTr.emaespyumQbeespgmlsnnmxbopmbmx. q
nrydpemqskgretmlqpymtr.mkppmqpew--Kqpmlsnnmdscpmtr.mbnnmgqpmxsy.gp
fbegs .nbek,mlqs qmryntmlrxby'kmnbyd.bdpm bymxbopmsygpepkgsydw--Symr.e
 rxx.ys bgsrykmlpmupbnmryntmsymgqpmdepbgw--Qrlpcpe,mSmx.kgmkbt,mgqbg
ErvpegmXbegsy'kmqpbegmkppxpumarem_qsx_,mbyumgrm_xp_,mcpetmrcpeanrlsyd;
byumgqbgmqpmusumxpygsry,mlsgqr.gmsgkmvpsydmx. qmgrmgqpmf.efrkp,mgqbg
rymh.sggsydmgqpsemvrjmbgmBkgnpt'k,mxtmvergqpemgrrom qbedpmramXekwmZrqy
OysdqgnptmbyumnsggnpmZrqy,mbyumqpmarnnrlpumlsgqmXskkmKxsgqmbyumQpyet;
byumgqbgmbgmrypmgsxpmgqptmlpepmsymk. qmbm erlu,mbkmgrmxbopmXskkmKxsgq
ebgqpem.ypbktw”

Qpmkgrffpuw--PxxbmubepumyrgmbggpxfgmbytmsxxpusbgpmepfntwmGrmkfpbo,mkqp
lbkmk.epmlr.numvpmgrmvpgebtmbmxrkgm.yepbkrybvnpmupdeppmramqbffsypkkw
Kqpmx.kgmlbsgmbmxrxpyg,mremqpmlr.numgqsyomqpemxbuwmQpemksnpy pmuskg.evpu
qsx;mbyumbagpemrvkpecsydmqpembmnsggnpmlqsnp,mqpmbuupu,

“Pxxb,mxtmnrcp,mtr.mkbsumgqbgmgqskm se .xkgby pmlr.numyrgmyrlmxbopmtr.
.yqbfft;mv.gmSmbxmbaebsumsgmdscpkmtr.mxrepmfbsymgqbymtr.mpjfp gpuwmQsk
ksg.bgsrymskmbympcsn--v.gmtr.mx.kgm ryksupemsgmbkmlqbgmkbgskaspkmtr.e
aespyu;mbyumSmlsnnmbyklpemaremtr.emgqsyosydmvpggpembyumvpggpemramqsx
bkmtr.moyrlmqsxmxrepwmQskmdrrumkpykpmbyumdrrumfesy sfnpkmlr.numupnsdqg
tr.w--Bkmabembkmgqpmxbymskm ry peypu,mtr.m r.numyrgmlskqmtr.emaespyu
symvpggpemqbyukwmQskmebyomsymkr spgtmSmlr.numbngpemsamSm r.nu,mlqs qmsk
kbtsydmbmdepbgmupbnmSmbkk.epmtr.,mPxxbw--Tr.mnb.dqmbgmxpmbvr.gmLsnnsbx
Nbeosyk;mv.gmSm r.numh.sgpmbkmsnnmkfbepmErvpegmXbegsyw”

Qpmlbygpumqpemgrmnrrom.fmbyumkxsnp;mbyumqbcsydmyrlmver.dqgmqpekpnamyrg
grmkxsnpmgrrmverbunt--kqpmusu-- qppea.nntmbyklpesyd,

“Tr.myppumyrgmvpmbgmbytmfbsykmgrmep ry snpmxpmgrmgqpmxbg qwmSmgqsyo
Qbeespgmskmursydmpjgepxpntmlpnnwm_Qpe_m ryypjsrykmxbtmvpmlrekpmgqby
_qsk_wmSymepkfp gbvsnsgtmram qbeb gpe,mgqpepm bymvpmyrmur.vgmgqbgmgqpt
bepwmSmqbcpmvppymksnpygmaerxmk.efesipmxpepnt,mpj pkkscpmk.efesipwmTr.
 byyrgmsxbdsypmqrlmk.uupyntmsgmqbkm rxpmrymxp!mqrlmfp .nsbentm.yfepfbepu
Smlbk!--aremSmqbumepbkrymgrmvpnspcpmqpemcpetmnbgpntmxrepmupgpexsypu
bdbsykgmqsx,mx. qmxrep,mgqbymkqpmlbkmvparepw”

“Tr.mr.dqgmgrmoyrlmtr.emaespyumvpkg,”mepfnspumXewmOysdqgnpt;m“v.gmS
kqr.numkbtmkqpmlbkmbmdrru-gpxfpepu,mkrag-qpbegpumdsen,myrgmnsopntmgrmvp
cpet,mcpetmupgpexsypumbdbsykgmbytmtr.ydmxbymlqrmgrnumqpemqpmnrcpumqpew”

Pxxbm r.numyrgmqpnfmnb.dqsydmbkmkqpmbyklpepu,m“.frymxtmlreu,mSmvpnspcp
tr.moyrlmqpemh.sgpmbkmlpnnmbkmSmurw--V.g,mXewmOysdqgnpt,mbepmtr.
fpeap gntmk.epmgqbgmkqpmqbkmbvkrn.gpntmbyumurlyesdqgm_b  pfgpu_mqsxw
Sm r.numk.ffrkpmkqpmxsdqgmsymgsxp--v.gm bymkqpmbnepbut?--Usumyrgmtr.
xsk.yupekgbyumqsx?--Tr.mlpepmvrgqmgbnosydmramrgqpemgqsydk;mramv.ksypkk,
kqrlkmram bggnp,mremyplmuesnnk--byumxsdqgmyrgmtr.,msymgqpm rya.ksrymra
krmxbytmk.vzp gk,mxskgbopmqsx?--SgmlbkmyrgmQbeespg'kmqbyumgqbgmqpmlbk
 pegbsymra--sgmlbkmgqpmusxpyksrykmramkrxpmabxr.kmrjw”

Gqpm rygebkgmvpglppymgqpm r.ygpyby pmbyumbsemramXewmOysdqgnptmbyumErvpeg
Xbegsymlbk,mbgmgqskmxrxpyg,mkrmkgerydmgrmPxxb'kmappnsydk,mbyumkrmkgeryd
lbkmgqpmep rnnp gsrymrambnnmgqbgmqbumkrmep pygntmfbkkpumrymQbeespg'k
ksup,mkrmaepkqmgqpmkr.yumramgqrkpmlreuk,mkfropymlsgqmk. qmpxfqbksk,
“Yr,mSmqrfpmSmoyrlmvpggpemgqbymgrmgqsyomramErvpegmXbegsy,”mgqbgmkqpmlbk
epbnntmpjfp gsydmgqpmsygpnnsdpy pmgrmfercp,msymkrxpmxpbk.ep,mfepxbg.epw
Sgm r.numyrgmvpmrgqpelskpw

“Urmtr.mubepmkbtmgqsk?”m espumXewmOysdqgnptwm“Urmtr.mubepmgrmk.ffrkpmxp
krmdepbgmbmvnr oqpbu,mbkmyrgmgrmoyrlmlqbgmbmxbymskmgbnosydmra?--Lqbgmur
tr.mupkpecp?”

“Rq!mSmbnlbtkmupkpecpmgqpmvpkgmgepbgxpyg,mvp b.kpmSmypcpemf.gm.fmlsgq
bytmrgqpe;mbyu,mgqpeparep,mtr.mx.kgmdscpmxpmbmfnbsy,musep gmbyklpewmBep
tr.mh.sgpmk.epmgqbgmtr.m.yupekgbyumgqpmgpexkmrymlqs qmXewmXbegsymbyu
Qbeespgmyrlmbep?”

“Smbxmh.sgpmk.ep,”mqpmepfnspu,mkfpbosydmcpetmuskgsy gnt,m“gqbgmqp
grnumxpmkqpmqbumb  pfgpumqsx;mbyumgqbgmgqpepmlbkmyrmrvk .esgt,myrgqsyd
ur.vga.n,msymgqpmlreukmqpm.kpu;mbyumSmgqsyomSm bymdscpmtr.mbmferramgqbg
sgmx.kgmvpmkrwmQpmbkopumxtmrfsysrymbkmgrmlqbgmqpmlbkmyrlmgrmurwmQpmoypl
ramyrmrypmv.gmXekwmDruubeumgrmlqrxmqpm r.numbffntmaremsyarexbgsrymra
qpemepnbgsrykmremaespyukwm r.numSmxpygsrymbytmgqsydmxrepmasgmgrmvpmuryp,
gqbymgrmdrmgrmXekwmDruubeu?mSmbkk.epumqsxmgqbgmSm r.numyrgwmGqpy,mqp
kbsu,mqpmlr.numpyupbcr.emgrmkppmqpemsymgqpm r.ekpmramgqskmubtw”

“Smbxmfpeap gntmkbgskaspu,”mepfnspumPxxb,mlsgqmgqpmvesdqgpkgmkxsnpk,
“byumxrkgmksy pepntmlskqmgqpxmqbfftw”

“Tr.mbepmxbgpesbnntm qbydpumksy pmlpmgbnopumrymgqskmk.vzp gmvparepw”

“Smqrfpmkr--arembgmgqbgmgsxpmSmlbkmbmarrnw”

“ByumSmbxm qbydpumbnkr;maremSmbxmyrlmcpetmlsnnsydmgrmdebygmtr.mbnn
Qbeespg'kmdrrumh.bnsgspkwmSmqbcpmgbopymkrxpmfbsykmaremtr.emkbop,mbyumare
ErvpegmXbegsy'kmkbop,m(lqrxmSmqbcpmbnlbtkmqbumepbkrymgrmvpnspcpmbkmx. q
symnrcpmlsgqmqpembkmpcpe,)mgrmdpgmb h.bsygpumlsgqmqpewmSmqbcpmragpy
gbnopumgrmqpembmdrrumupbnwmTr.mx.kgmqbcpmkppymgqbgmSmusuwmKrxpgsxpk,
syuppu,mSmqbcpmgqr.dqgmtr.mlpepmqbnamk.kfp gsydmxpmramfnpbusydmfrre
Xbegsy'km b.kp,mlqs qmlbkmypcpemgqpm bkp;mv.g,maerxmbnnmxtmrvkpecbgsryk,
Smbxm rycsy pumramqpemvpsydmbymbegnpkk,mbxsbvnpmdsen,mlsgqmcpetmdrru
yrgsryk,mcpetmkpesr.kntmdrrumfesy sfnpk,mbyumfnb sydmqpemqbffsypkkmsy
gqpmbaap gsrykmbyum.gsnsgtmramurxpkgs mnsapw--X. qmramgqsk,mSmqbcpmyr
ur.vg,mkqpmxbtmgqbyomtr.marew”

“Xp!”m espumPxxb,mkqbosydmqpemqpbuw--“Bq!mfrremQbeespg!”

Kqpm qp opumqpekpna,mqrlpcpe,mbyumk.vxsggpumh.spgntmgrmbmnsggnpmxrep
febskpmgqbymkqpmupkpecpuw

Gqpsem rycpekbgsrymlbkmkrrymbagpelbeukm nrkpumvtmgqpmpygeby pmramqpe
abgqpewmKqpmlbkmyrgmkreetwmKqpmlbygpumgrmvpmbnrypwmQpemxsyumlbkmsymb
kgbgpmraman.ggpembyumlryupe,mlqs qmxbupmsgmsxfrkksvnpmaremqpemgrmvp
 rnnp gpuwmKqpmlbkmsymuby syd,mksydsyd,mpj nbsxsydmkfsesgk;mbyumgsnnmkqp
qbumxrcpumbvr.g,mbyumgbnopumgrmqpekpna,mbyumnb.dqpumbyumepanp gpu,mkqp
 r.numvpmasgmaremyrgqsydmebgsrybnw

Qpemabgqpe'kmv.ksypkkmlbkmgrmbyyr.y pmZbxpk'kmvpsydmdrypmr.gmgrmf.gmgqp
qrekpkmgr,mfepfbebgretmgrmgqpsemyrlmubsntmuescpmgrmEbyubnnk;mbyumkqp
qbu,mgqpeparep,mbymsxxpusbgpmpj .kpmaremuskbffpbesydw

Gqpmzrt,mgqpmdebgsg.up,mgqpmpjh.sksgpmupnsdqgmramqpemkpykbgsrykmxbtmvp
sxbdsypuwmGqpmkrnpmdespcby pmbyumbnnrtmgq.kmepxrcpumsymgqpmferkfp gmra
Qbeespg'kmlpnabep,mkqpmlbkmepbnntmsymubydpemramvp rxsydmgrrmqbfftmare
kp .esgtw--Lqbgmqbumkqpmgrmlskqmare?mYrgqsyd,mv.gmgrmderlmxrepmlregqtmra
qsx,mlqrkpmsygpygsrykmbyumz.udxpygmqbumvppympcpemkrmk.fpesremgrmqpemrlyw
Yrgqsyd,mv.gmgqbgmgqpmnpkkrykmramqpemfbkgmarnntmxsdqgmgpb qmqpemq.xsnsgt
byum se .xkfp gsrymsyma.g.epw

Kpesr.kmkqpmlbk,mcpetmkpesr.kmsymqpemgqbyoa.nypkk,mbyumsymqpe
epkrn.gsryk;mbyumtpgmgqpepmlbkmyrmfepcpygsydmbmnb.dq,mkrxpgsxpkmsymgqp
cpetmxsukgmramgqpxwmKqpmx.kgmnb.dqmbgmk. qmbm nrkp!mK. qmbympyumramgqp
urnpa.nmuskbffrsygxpygmramascpmlppokmvb o!mK. qmbmqpbeg--k. qmbmQbeespg!

Yrlmgqpepmlr.numvpmfnpbk.epmsymqpemepg.eysyd--Pcpetmgqsydmlr.numvpmb
fnpbk.epwmSgmlr.numvpmbmdepbgmfnpbk.epmgrmoyrlmErvpegmXbegsyw

Qsdqmsymgqpmebyomramqpemxrkgmkpesr.kmbyumqpbegapngmapns sgspk,mlbkmgqp
epanp gsrymgqbgmbnnmyp pkksgtmram ry pbnxpygmaerxmXewmOysdqgnptmlr.nu
krrymvpmrcpewmGqpmuskd.skp,mph.scr bgsry,mxtkgpet,mkrmqbgpa.nmgrmqpemgr
feb gskp,mxsdqgmkrrymvpmrcpewmKqpm r.numyrlmnrromarelbeumgrmdscsydmqsx
gqbgma.nnmbyumfpeap gm ryasupy pmlqs qmqpemuskfrksgsrymlbkmxrkgmepbutmgr
lpn rxpmbkmbmu.gtw

Symgqpmdbtpkgmbyumqbffspkgmkfsesgkmkqpmkpgmarelbeumlsgqmqpemabgqpe;myrg
bnlbtkmnskgpysyd,mv.gmbnlbtkmbdeppsydmgrmlqbgmqpmkbsu;mbyu,mlqpgqpemsy
kfpp qmremksnpy p,m ryyscsydmbgmgqpm rxaregbvnpmfpek.bksrymramqsk
vpsydmrvnsdpumgrmdrmgrmEbyubnnkmpcpetmubt,mremfrremXekwmLpkgrymlr.numvp
uskbffrsygpuw

Gqptmbeescpuw--XekwmLpkgrymlbkmbnrypmsymgqpmueblsyd-errx:--v.gmqbeunt
qbumgqptmvppymgrnumramgqpmvbvt,mbyumXewmLrruqr.kpmep pscpumgqpmgqbyok
arem rxsyd,mlqs qmqpmbkopumare,mlqpymbmdnsxfkpmlbkm b.dqgmgqer.dqmgqp
vnsyu,mramglrmasd.epkmfbkksydmypbemgqpmlsyurlw

“SgmskmAebyombyumXskkmAbseabj,”mkbsumXekwmLpkgrywm“Smlbkmz.kgmdrsydmgr
gpnnmtr.mramr.embdeppbvnpmk.efesipmsymkppsydmqsxmbeescpmgqskmxreysydwmQp
kgbtkmgsnnmgr-xreerl,mbyumXskkmAbseabjmqbkmvppymfpek.bupumgrmkfpyumgqp
ubtmlsgqm.kw--Gqptmbepm rxsydmsy,mSmqrfpw”

Symqbnambmxsy.gpmgqptmlpepmsymgqpmerrxwmPxxbmlbkmpjgepxpntmdnbumgr
kppmqsx--v.gmgqpepmlbkmbmupdeppmram rya.ksry--bmy.xvpemrampxvbeebkksyd
ep rnnp gsrykmrympb qmksupwmGqptmxpgmepbusntmbyumkxsnsyd,mv.gmlsgqmb
 ryk sr.kypkkmlqs qmbgmasekgmbnnrlpumnsggnpmgrmvpmkbsu;mbyumqbcsydmbnn
kbgmurlymbdbsy,mgqpepmlbkmaremkrxpmgsxpmk. qmbmvnbyomsymgqpm se np,mgqbg
Pxxbmvpdbymgrmur.vgmlqpgqpemgqpmlskqmyrlmsyu.ndpu,mlqs qmkqpmqbumnryd
apng,mramkppsydmAebyom q.e qsnnmry pmxrep,mbyumramkppsydmqsxmlsgqmZbyp,
lr.numtspnumsgkmferfregsrymramfnpbk.epwmLqpymXewmLpkgrymzrsypumgqp
fbegt,mqrlpcpe,mbyumlqpymgqpmvbvtmlbkmapg qpu,mgqpepmlbkmyrmnrydpemb
lbygmramk.vzp gmrembysxbgsry--remram r.ebdpmbyumrffreg.ysgtmaremAebyo
 q.e qsnnmgrmueblmypbemqpembyumkbt,

“Smqbcpmgrmgqbyomtr.,mXskkmLrruqr.kp,marembmcpetmosyumaredscsydmxpkkbdp
symrypmramXekwmLpkgry'kmnpggpekwmSmqrfpmgsxpmqbkmyrgmxbupmtr.mnpkk
lsnnsydmgrmfbeurywmSmqrfpmtr.murmyrgmepgeb gmlqbgmtr.mgqpymkbsuw”

“Yr,msyuppu,”m espumPxxb,mxrkgmqbfftmgrmvpdsy,m“yrgmsymgqpmnpbkgwmSmbx
fbegs .nbentmdnbumgrmkppmbyumkqbopmqbyukmlsgqmtr.--byumgrmdscpmtr.mzrt
symfpekryw”

Qpmgqbyopumqpemlsgqmbnnmqskmqpbeg,mbyum rygsy.pumkrxpmgsxpmgrmkfpbomlsgq
kpesr.kmappnsydmramqskmdebgsg.upmbyumqbffsypkkw

“Skmyrgmkqpmnrrosydmlpnn?”mkbsumqp,mg.eysydmqskmptpkmgrlbeukmZbypw
“Vpggpemgqbymkqpmpcpem.kpumgrmur?--Tr.mkppmqrlmxtmabgqpembyumXekwmLpkgry
urbgm.frymqpew”

V.gmqskmkfsesgkmlpepmkrrymesksydmbdbsy,mbyumlsgqmnb.dqsydmptpk,mbagpe
xpygsrysydmgqpmpjfp gpumepg.eymramgqpm bxfvpnnk,mqpmybxpumgqpmybxpmra
Usjryw--Pxxbmvn.kqpu,mbyumarevbupmsgkmvpsydmferyr.y pumsymqpemqpbesydw

“Sm bymypcpemgqsyomramsg,”mkqpm espu,m“lsgqr.gmpjgepxpmkqbxpw”

“Gqpmkqbxp,”mqpmbyklpepu,m“skmbnnmxsyp,mremr.dqgmgrmvpwmV.gmskmsg
frkksvnpmgqbgmtr.mqbumyrmk.kfs sry?--SmxpbymramnbgpwmPbent,mSmoyrl,mtr.
qbumyrypw”

“Smypcpemqbumgqpmkxbnnpkg,mSmbkk.epmtr.w”

“Gqbgmbffpbekmh.sgpmlryupea.nwmSmlbkmry pmcpetmypbe--byumSmlskqmS
qbu--sgmlr.numqbcpmvppymvpggpewmV.gmgqr.dqmSmlbkmbnlbtkmursydmleryd
gqsydk,mgqptmlpepmcpetmvbumlerydmgqsydk,mbyumk. qmbkmusumxpmyr
kpecs pw--Sgmlr.numqbcpmvppymbmx. qmvpggpemgebykdepkksrymqbumSmveropy
gqpmvryumramkp ep tmbyumgrnumtr.mpcpetmgqsydw”

“Sgmskmyrgmyrlmlregqmbmepdepg,”mkbsumPxxbw

“Smqbcpmkrxpmqrfp,”mepk.xpumqp,m“ramxtm.y np'kmvpsydmfpek.bupumgrmfbtmb
csksgmbgmEbyubnnk;mqpmlbygkmgrmvpmsygeru. pumgrmqpewmLqpymgqpm bxfvpnnk
bepmepg.eypu,mlpmkqbnnmxppgmgqpxmsymNryury,mbyum rygsy.pmgqpep,mSmge.kg,
gsnnmlpmxbtm beetmqpemyregqlbeuw--V.gmyrl,mSmbxmbgmk. qmbmuskgby pmaerx
qpe--skmyrgmsgmqbeu,mXskkmLrruqr.kp?--Gsnnmgqskmxreysyd,mlpmqbcpmyrg
ry pmxpgmksy pmgqpmubtmramep ry snsbgsrywmUrmyrgmtr.mfsgtmxp?”

Pxxbmkfropmqpemfsgtmkrmcpetmosyunt,mgqbgmlsgqmbmk.uupymb  pkksrymramdbt
gqr.dqg,mqpm espu,

“Bq!mvtmgqpmvtp,”mgqpymksyosydmqskmcrs p,mbyumnrrosydmupx.epmaremgqp
xrxpyg--“SmqrfpmXewmOysdqgnptmskmlpnn?”mQpmfb.kpuw--Kqpm rnr.epumbyu
nb.dqpuw--“Smoyrlmtr.mkblmxtmnpggpe,mbyumgqsyomtr.mxbtmepxpxvpemxtmlskq
symtr.emabcr.ewmNpgmxpmepg.eymtr.em rydebg.nbgsrykw--Smbkk.epmtr.mgqbg
Smqbcpmqpbeumgqpmyplkmlsgqmgqpmlbexpkgmsygpepkgmbyumkbgskab gsryw--Qpmsk
bmxbymlqrxmSm byyrgmfepk.xpmgrmfebskpw”

Pxxbmlbkmupnsdqgpu,mbyumryntmlbygpumqsxmgrmdrmrymsymgqpmkbxpmkgtnp;mv.g
qskmxsyumlbkmgqpmypjgmxrxpygmsymqskmrlym ry peykmbyumlsgqmqskmrlymZbyp,
byumqskmypjgmlreukmlpep,

“Usumtr.mpcpemkppmk. qmbmkosy?--k. qmkxrrgqypkk!mk. qmupns b t!--byu
tpgmlsgqr.gmvpsydmb g.bnntmabsew--Rypm byyrgm bnnmqpemabsewmSgmskmb
xrkgm.y rxxrym rxfnpjsry,mlsgqmqpemubeomptp-nbkqpkmbyumqbse--bmxrkg
uskgsyd.skqsydm rxfnpjsry!mKrmfp .nsbentmgqpmnbutmsymsgw--Z.kgm rnr.e
pyr.dqmaremvpb.gtw”

“Smqbcpmbnlbtkmbuxsepumqpem rxfnpjsry,”mepfnspumPxxb,mbe qnt;m“v.g
urmyrgmSmepxpxvpemgqpmgsxpmlqpymtr.mar.yumab.ngmlsgqmqpemaremvpsydmkr
fbnp?--Lqpymlpmasekgmvpdbymgrmgbnomramqpew--Qbcpmtr.mh.sgpmaredrggpy?”

“Rq!myr--lqbgmbymsxf.upygmurdmSmlbk!--Qrlm r.numSmubep--”

V.gmqpmnb.dqpumkrmqpbegsntmbgmgqpmep rnnp gsry,mgqbgmPxxbm r.numyrgmqpnf
kbtsyd,

“Smurmk.kfp gmgqbgmsymgqpmxsukgmramtr.emfpefnpjsgspkmbgmgqbgmgsxp,mtr.
qbumcpetmdepbgmbx.kpxpygmsymges osydm.kmbnnw--Smbxmk.epmtr.mqbuw--Smbx
k.epmsgmlbkmbm rykrnbgsrymgrmtr.w”

“Rq!myr,myr,myr--qrlm bymtr.mk.kfp gmxpmramk. qmbmgqsyd?mSmlbkmgqpmxrkg
xskpebvnpmlepg q!”

“Yrgmh.sgpmkrmxskpebvnpmbkmgrmvpmsykpyksvnpmgrmxsegqwmSmbxmk.epmsgmlbkmb
kr.e pmramqsdqmpygpegbsyxpygmgrmtr.,mgrmappnmgqbgmtr.mlpepmgbosydm.k
bnnmsyw--FpeqbfkmSmbxmgqpmepbuspemgrmk.kfp g,mvp b.kp,mgrmgpnnmtr.mgqp
ge.gq,mSmgqsyomsgmxsdqgmqbcpmvppymkrxpmbx.kpxpygmgrmxtkpnamsymgqpmkbxp
ksg.bgsrywmSmgqsyomgqpepmskmbmnsggnpmnsopypkkmvpglppym.kw”

Qpmvrlpuw

“Samyrgmsymr.emuskfrksgsryk,”mkqpmfepkpygntmbuupu,mlsgqmbmnrromramge.p
kpyksvsnsgt,m“gqpepmskmbmnsopypkkmsymr.emupkgsyt;mgqpmupkgsytmlqs qmvsuk
absemgrm ryyp gm.kmlsgqmglrm qbeb gpekmkrmx. qmk.fpesremgrmr.emrlyw”

“Ge.p,mge.p,”mqpmbyklpepu,mlbexntwm“Yr,myrgmge.pmrymtr.emksupwmTr.m by
qbcpmyrmk.fpesre,mv.gmxrkgmge.pmrymxsypw--Kqpmskmbm rxfnpgpmbydpnwmNrro
bgmqpewmSkmyrgmkqpmbymbydpnmsympcpetmdpkg.ep?mRvkpecpmgqpmg.eymramqpe
gqerbgwmRvkpecpmqpemptpk,mbkmkqpmskmnrrosydm.fmbgmxtmabgqpew--Tr.mlsnn
vpmdnbumgrmqpbem(sy nsysydmqskmqpbu,mbyumlqskfpesydmkpesr.knt)mgqbgmxt
.y npmxpbykmgrmdscpmqpembnnmxtmb.yg'kmzplpnkwmGqptmbepmgrmvpmyplmkpgw
SmbxmepkrncpumgrmqbcpmkrxpmsymbymreybxpygmaremgqpmqpbuwmLsnnmyrgmsgmvp
vpb.gsa.nmsymqpemubeomqbse?”

“Cpetmvpb.gsa.n,msyuppu,”mepfnspumPxxb;mbyumkqpmkfropmkrmosyunt,mgqbgmqp
debgpa.nntmv.ekgmr.g,

“QrlmupnsdqgpumSmbxmgrmkppmtr.mbdbsy!mbyumgrmkppmtr.msymk. qmpj pnnpyg
nrrok!--Smlr.numyrgmqbcpmxskkpumgqskmxppgsydmaremgqpmlrenuwmSmkqr.nu
 pegbsyntmqbcpm bnnpumbgmQbegaspnu,mqbumtr.mabsnpumgrm rxpw”

Gqpmrgqpekmqbumvppymgbnosydmramgqpm qsnu,mXekwmLpkgrymdscsydmbymb  r.yg
rambmnsggnpmbnbexmkqpmqbumvppym.yupe,mgqpmpcpysydmvparep,maerxmgqp
syabyg'kmbffpbesydmyrgmh.sgpmlpnnwmKqpmvpnspcpumkqpmqbumvppymarrnskq,
v.gmsgmqbumbnbexpumqpe,mbyumkqpmqbumvppymlsgqsymqbnambmxsy.gpmramkpyusyd
aremXewmFpeetwmFpeqbfkmkqpmr.dqgmgrmvpmbkqbxpu,mv.gmXewmLpkgrymqbumvppy
bnxrkgmbkm.ypbktmbkmqpekpnaw--Symgpymxsy.gpk,mqrlpcpe,mgqpm qsnumqbu
vppymfpeap gntmlpnnmbdbsywmGqskmlbkmqpemqskgret;mbyumfbegs .nbent
sygpepkgsydmsgmlbkmgrmXewmLrruqr.kp,mlqrm rxxpyupumqpemcpetmx. qmare
gqsyosydmramkpyusydmaremFpeet,mbyumryntmepdepggpumgqbgmkqpmqbumyrgmuryp
sgwm“Kqpmkqr.numbnlbtkmkpyumaremFpeet,msamgqpm qsnumbffpbepumsymgqp
knsdqgpkgmupdeppmuskreupepu,mlpepmsgmryntmarembmxrxpygwmKqpm r.numyrgmvp
grrmkrrymbnbexpu,myremkpyumaremFpeetmgrrmragpywmSgmlbkmbmfsgt,mfpeqbfk,
gqbgmqpmqbumyrgm rxpmnbkgmysdqg;mare,mgqr.dqmgqpm qsnumkppxpumlpnnmyrl,
cpetmlpnnm ryksupesyd,msgmlr.numfervbvntmqbcpmvppymvpggpemsamFpeetmqbu
kppymsgw”

Aebyom q.e qsnnm b.dqgmgqpmybxpw

“Fpeet!”mkbsumqpmgrmPxxb,mbyumgetsyd,mbkmqpmkfrop,mgrm bg qmXskk
Abseabj'kmptpwm“XtmaespyumXewmFpeet!mLqbgmbepmgqptmkbtsydmbvr.gmXew
Fpeet?--Qbkmqpmvppymqpepmgqskmxreysyd?--Byumqrlmurpkmqpmgebcpnmyrl?--Qbk
qpmkpgm.fmqskm beesbdp?”

Pxxbmkrrymep rnnp gpu,mbyum.yupekgrrumqsx;mbyumlqsnpmkqpmzrsypumsymgqp
nb.dq,msgmlbkmpcsupygmaerxmZbyp'km r.ygpyby pmgqbgmkqpmgrrmlbkmepbnnt
qpbesydmqsx,mgqr.dqmgetsydmgrmkppxmupbaw

“K. qmbympjgebreusybetmuepbxmramxsyp!”mqpm espuwm“Sm bymypcpemgqsyomra
sgmlsgqr.gmnb.dqsydw--Kqpmqpbekm.k,mkqpmqpbekm.k,mXskkmLrruqr.kpwmSmkpp
sgmsymqpem qppo,mqpemkxsnp,mqpemcbsymbggpxfgmgrmaerlywmNrrombgmqpewmUr
yrgmtr.mkppmgqbg,mbgmgqskmsykgbyg,mgqpmcpetmfbkkbdpmramqpemrlymnpggpe,
lqs qmkpygmxpmgqpmepfreg,mskmfbkksydm.yupemqpemptp--gqbgmgqpmlqrnp
vn.yupemskmkfepbumvparepmqpe--gqbgmkqpm bymbggpyumgrmyrgqsydmpnkp,
gqr.dqmfepgpyusydmgrmnskgpymgrmgqpmrgqpek?”

Zbypmlbkmare pumgrmkxsnpm rxfnpgpnt,marembmxrxpyg;mbyumgqpmkxsnpmfbegnt
epxbsypumbkmkqpmg.eypumgrlbeukmqsx,mbyumkbsumsymbm ryk sr.k,mnrl,mtpg
kgpbutmcrs p,

“Qrlmtr.m bymvpbemk. qmep rnnp gsryk,mskmbkgryskqsydmgrmxp!--Gqpt
_lsnn_mkrxpgsxpkmrvge.up--v.gmqrlmtr.m bym r.egmgqpx!”

Qpmqbumbmdepbgmupbnmgrmkbtmsymepg.ey,mbyumcpetmpygpegbsysydnt;mv.g
Pxxb'kmappnsydkmlpepm qspantmlsgqmZbyp,msymgqpmbed.xpyg;mbyumrymnpbcsyd
Ebyubnnk,mbyumabnnsydmybg.ebnntmsygrmbm rxfbeskrymramgqpmglrmxpy,mkqp
apng,mgqbgmfnpbkpumbkmkqpmqbumvppymgrmkppmAebyom q.e qsnn,mbyumepbnnt
epdbeusydmqsxmbkmkqpmusumlsgqmaespyukqsf,mkqpmqbumypcpemvppymxrep
kpyksvnpmramXewmOysdqgnpt'kmqsdqmk.fpesresgtmram qbeb gpewmGqpmqbffsypkk
ramgqskmxrkgmqbfftmubt,mep pscpumsgkm rxfnpgsry,msymgqpmbysxbgpu
 rygpxfnbgsrymramqskmlregqmlqs qmgqskm rxfbeskrymferu. puw



 QBFGPEmJSJ


SamPxxbmqbumkgsnn,mbgmsygpecbnk,mbymbyjsr.kmappnsydmaremQbeespg,mb
xrxpygbetmur.vgmramsgkmvpsydmfrkksvnpmaremqpemgrmvpmepbnntm .epumramqpe
bggb qxpygmgrmXewmOysdqgnpt,mbyumepbnntmbvnpmgrmb  pfgmbyrgqpemxbymaerx
.yvsbkpumsy nsybgsry,msgmlbkmyrgmnrydmgqbgmkqpmqbumgrmk.aapemaerxmgqp
ep .eepy pmrambytmk. qm.y pegbsygtwmBmcpetmaplmubtkmver.dqgmgqpmfbegt
aerxmNryury,mbyumkqpmqbumyrmkrrypembymrffreg.ysgtmramvpsydmrypmqr.e
bnrypmlsgqmQbeespg,mgqbymkqpmvp bxpmfpeap gntmkbgskaspu--.yb  r.ygbvnp
bkmsgmlbk!--gqbgmErvpegmXbegsymqbumgqrer.dqntmk.ffnbygpumXewmOysdqgnpt,
byumlbkmyrlmarexsydmbnnmqpemcsplkmramqbffsypkkw

Qbeespgmlbkmbmnsggnpmuskgepkkpu--usumnrrombmnsggnpmarrnskqmbgmasekg:
v.gmqbcsydmry pmrlypumgqbgmkqpmqbumvppymfepk.xfg.r.kmbyumksnnt,mbyu
kpna-up pscpu,mvparep,mqpemfbsymbyum rya.ksrymkppxpumgrmuspmblbtmlsgq
gqpmlreuk,mbyumnpbcpmqpemlsgqr.gmbm bepmaremgqpmfbkg,mbyumlsgqmgqp
a.nnpkgmpj.ngbgsrymsymgqpmfepkpygmbyuma.g.ep;mare,mbkmgrmqpemaespyu'k
bffervbgsry,mPxxbmqbumsykgbygntmepxrcpumpcpetmapbemramgqbgmybg.ep,mvt
xppgsydmqpemlsgqmgqpmxrkgm.yh.bnsaspum rydebg.nbgsrykw--Qbeespgmlbk
xrkgmqbfftmgrmdscpmpcpetmfbegs .nbemramgqpmpcpysydmbgmBkgnpt'k,mbyumgqp
usyypemgqpmypjgmubt;mkqpm r.numulpnnmrymsgmbnnmlsgqmgqpm.gxrkgmupnsdqgw
V.gmlqbgmusumk. qmfbegs .nbekmpjfnbsy?--Gqpmab gmlbk,mbkmPxxbm r.numyrl
b oyrlnpudp,mgqbgmQbeespgmqbumbnlbtkmnsopumErvpegmXbegsy;mbyumgqbgmqsk
 rygsy.sydmgrmnrcpmqpemqbumvppymseepkskgsvnpw--Vptryumgqsk,msgmx.kgmpcpe
vpm.ysygpnnsdsvnpmgrmPxxbw

Gqpmpcpyg,mqrlpcpe,mlbkmxrkgmzrta.n;mbyumpcpetmubtmlbkmdscsydmqpemaepkq
epbkrymaremgqsyosydmkrw--Qbeespg'kmfbepygbdpmvp bxpmoyrlywmKqpmfercpu
grmvpmgqpmub.dqgpemrambmgebupkxby,mes qmpyr.dqmgrmbaareumqpemgqp
 rxaregbvnpmxbsygpyby pmlqs qmqbumpcpemvppymqpek,mbyumup pygmpyr.dqmgr
qbcpmbnlbtkmlskqpumarem ry pbnxpygw--K. qmlbkmgqpmvnrrumramdpygsnsgt
lqs qmPxxbmqbumarexpentmvppymkrmepbutmgrmcr. qmare!--Sgmlbkmnsopntmgr
vpmbkm.ygbsygpu,mfpeqbfk,mbkmgqpmvnrrumramxbytmbmdpygnpxby:mv.gmlqbg
bm ryypjsrymqbumkqpmvppymfepfbesydmaremXewmOysdqgnpt--remaremgqp
 q.e qsnnk--rempcpymaremXewmPngry!--Gqpmkgbsymramsnnpdsgsxb t,
.yvnpb qpumvtmyrvsnsgtmremlpbngq,mlr.numqbcpmvppymbmkgbsymsyuppuw

Yrmrvzp gsrymlbkmebskpumrymgqpmabgqpe'kmksup;mgqpmtr.ydmxbymlbkmgepbgpu
nsvpebnnt;msgmlbkmbnnmbkmsgmkqr.numvp:mbyumbkmPxxbmvp bxpmb h.bsygpu
lsgqmErvpegmXbegsy,mlqrmlbkmyrlmsygeru. pumbgmQbegaspnu,mkqpma.nnt
b oyrlnpudpumsymqsxmbnnmgqpmbffpbeby pmramkpykpmbyumlregqmlqs qm r.nu
vsumabsepkgmaremqpemnsggnpmaespyuwmKqpmqbumyrmur.vgmramQbeespg'k
qbffsypkkmlsgqmbytmdrru-gpxfpepumxby;mv.gmlsgqmqsx,mbyumsymgqpmqrxpmqp
raapepu,mgqpepmlr.numvpmgqpmqrfpmramxrep,mramkp .esgt,mkgbvsnsgt,mbyu
sxfercpxpygwmKqpmlr.numvpmfnb pumsymgqpmxsukgmramgqrkpmlqrmnrcpumqpe,
byumlqrmqbumvpggpemkpykpmgqbymqpekpna;mepgsepumpyr.dqmaremkbapgt,
byumr  .fspumpyr.dqmarem qppea.nypkkwmKqpmlr.numvpmypcpemnpumsygr
gpxfgbgsry,myremnpagmaremsgmgrmasyumqpemr.gwmKqpmlr.numvpmepkfp gbvnp
byumqbfft;mbyumPxxbmbuxsggpumqpemgrmvpmgqpmn. ospkgm epbg.epmsymgqp
lrenu,mgrmqbcpm epbgpumkrmkgpbutmbyumfpekpcpesydmbymbaap gsrymsymk. qmb
xby;--re,msamyrgmh.sgpmgqpmn. ospkg,mgrmtspnumryntmgrmqpekpnaw

Qbeespg,myp pkkbesntmueblymblbtmvtmqpempydbdpxpygkmlsgqmgqpmXbegsyk,
lbkmnpkkmbyumnpkkmbgmQbegaspnu;mlqs qmlbkmyrgmgrmvpmepdepggpuw--Gqp
sygsxb tmvpglppymqpembyumPxxbmx.kgmksyo;mgqpsemaespyukqsfmx.kgm qbydp
sygrmbm bnxpemkregmramdrrulsnn;mbyu,mareg.ybgpnt,mlqbgmr.dqgmgrmvp,
byumx.kgmvp,mkppxpumbnepbutmvpdsyysyd,mbyumsymgqpmxrkgmdebu.bn,mybg.ebn
xbyypew

VparepmgqpmpyumramKpfgpxvpe,mPxxbmbggpyupumQbeespgmgrm q.e q,mbyumkbl
qpemqbyumvpkgrlpumrymErvpegmXbegsymlsgqmkrm rxfnpgpmbmkbgskab gsry,mbk
yrmepxpxveby pk,mpcpym ryyp gpumlsgqmXewmPngrymbkmqpmkgrrumvparepmgqpx,
 r.numsxfbsew--Fpeqbfk,msyuppu,mbgmgqbgmgsxpmkqpmk be pntmkblmXewmPngry,
v.gmbkmgqpm npedtxbymlqrkpmvnpkksydmbgmgqpmbngbemxsdqgmypjgmabnnmry
qpekpnaw--ErvpegmXbegsymbyumQbeespgmKxsgq,mgqpmnbgpkgm r.fnpmpydbdpumra
gqpmgqepp,mlpepmgqpmasekgmgrmvpmxbeespuw

ZbypmAbseabjmqbumbnepbutmh.sggpumQsdqv.et,mbyumlbkmepkgrepumgrmgqp
 rxaregkmramqpemvpnrcpumqrxpmlsgqmgqpm bxfvpnnkw--GqpmXewm q.e qsnnk
lpepmbnkrmsymgrly;mbyumgqptmlpepmryntmlbsgsydmaremYrcpxvpew

Gqpmsygpexpusbgpmxrygqmlbkmgqpmrypmasjpumry,mbkmabembkmgqptmubepu,mvt
PxxbmbyumXewmOysdqgnptw--Gqptmqbumupgpexsypumgqbgmgqpsemxbeesbdpmr.dqg
grmvpm ry n.upumlqsnpmZrqymbyumSkbvpnnbmlpepmkgsnnmbgmQbegaspnu,mgr
bnnrlmgqpxmgqpmaregysdqg'kmbvkpy pmsymbmgr.emgrmgqpmkpbksup,mlqs qmlbk
gqpmfnbyw--ZrqymbyumSkbvpnnb,mbyumpcpetmrgqpemaespyu,mlpepmbdeppumsy
bffercsydmsgwmV.gmXewmLrruqr.kp--qrlmlbkmXewmLrruqr.kpmgrmvpmsyu. pu
grm rykpyg?--qp,mlqrmqbumypcpemtpgmbnn.upumgrmgqpsemxbeesbdpmv.gmbkmb
uskgbygmpcpygw

Lqpymasekgmkr.yupumrymgqpmk.vzp g,mqpmlbkmkrmxskpebvnp,mgqbgmgqptmlpep
bnxrkgmqrfpnpkkw--Bmkp ryumbnn.ksry,msyuppu,mdbcpmnpkkmfbsyw--Qp
vpdbymgrmgqsyomsgmlbkmgrmvp,mbyumgqbgmqpm r.numyrgmfepcpygmsg--bmcpet
ferxsksydmkgpfmramgqpmxsyumrymsgkmlbtmgrmepksdybgsrywmKgsnn,mqrlpcpe,mqp
lbkmyrgmqbfftwmYbt,mqpmbffpbepumkrmx. qmrgqpelskp,mgqbgmqskmub.dqgpe'k
 r.ebdpmabsnpuwmKqpm r.numyrgmvpbemgrmkppmqsxmk.aapesyd,mgrmoyrl
qsxmaby tsydmqsxkpnamypdnp gpu;mbyumgqr.dqmqpem.yupekgbyusydmbnxrkg
b h.spk pumsymgqpmbkk.eby pmramvrgqmgqpmXewmOysdqgnptk,mgqbgmlqpy
ry pmgqpmpcpygmlpepmrcpe,mqskmuskgepkkmlr.numvpmkrrymrcpemgrr,mkqp
qpksgbgpu--kqpm r.numyrgmfer ppuw

Symgqskmkgbgpmramk.kfpykpmgqptmlpepmvpaespyupu,myrgmvtmbytmk.uupy
snn.xsybgsrymramXewmLrruqr.kp'kmxsyu,mrembytmlryupea.nm qbydpmramqsk
ypecr.kmktkgpx,mv.gmvtmgqpmrfpebgsrymramgqpmkbxpmktkgpxmsymbyrgqpe
lbtw--XekwmLpkgry'kmfr.nget-qr.kpmlbkmervvpumrypmysdqgmrambnnmqpe
g.eoptk--pcsupygntmvtmgqpmsydpy.sgtmramxbywmRgqpemfr.nget-tbeukmsy
gqpmypsdqvr.eqrrumbnkrmk.aapepuw--Fsnapesydmlbkm_qr.kpvepbosyd_mgrmXew
Lrruqr.kp'kmapbekw--Qpmlbkmcpetm.ypbkt;mbyumv.gmaremgqpmkpykpmramqsk
kry-sy-nbl'kmfergp gsry,mlr.numqbcpmvppym.yupemlepg qpumbnbexmpcpet
ysdqgmramqskmnsapwmGqpmkgepydgq,mepkrn.gsry,mbyumfepkpy pmramxsyumramgqp
XewmOysdqgnptk,m rxxbyupumqskma.nnpkgmupfpyupy pwmLqsnpmpsgqpemramgqpx
fergp gpumqsxmbyumqsk,mQbegaspnumlbkmkbapw--V.gmXewmZrqymOysdqgnptmx.kg
vpmsymNryurymbdbsymvtmgqpmpyumramgqpmasekgmlppomsymYrcpxvpew

Gqpmepk.ngmramgqskmuskgepkkmlbk,mgqbg,mlsgqmbmx. qmxrepmcrn.ygbet,
 qppea.nm rykpygmgqbymqskmub.dqgpemqbumpcpemfepk.xpumgrmqrfpmarembgmgqp
xrxpyg,mkqpmlbkmbvnpmgrmasjmqpemlpuusyd-ubt--byumXewmPngrymlbkm bnnpu
ry,mlsgqsymbmxrygqmaerxmgqpmxbeesbdpmramXewmbyumXekwmErvpegmXbegsy,mgr
zrsymgqpmqbyukmramXewmOysdqgnptmbyumXskkmLrruqr.kpw

Gqpmlpuusydmlbkmcpetmx. qmnsopmrgqpemlpuusydk,mlqpepmgqpmfbegspkmqbcp
yrmgbkgpmaremasypetmremfbebup;mbyumXekwmPngry,maerxmgqpmfbegs .nbek
upgbsnpumvtmqpemq.kvbyu,mgqr.dqgmsgmbnnmpjgepxpntmkqbvvt,mbyumcpet
syapesremgrmqpemrlyw--“Cpetmnsggnpmlqsgpmkbgsy,mcpetmaplmnb pmcpsnk;mb
xrkgmfsgsa.nmv.ksypkk!--Kpnsybmlr.numkgbepmlqpymkqpmqpbeumramsgw”--V.g,
symkfsgpmramgqpkpmupas spy spk,mgqpmlskqpk,mgqpmqrfpk,mgqpm ryasupy p,
gqpmfepus gsrykmramgqpmkxbnnmvbyumramge.pmaespyukmlqrmlsgypkkpumgqp
 pepxryt,mlpepma.nntmbyklpepumsymgqpmfpeap gmqbffsypkkmramgqpm.ysryw



ASYSK






PyumramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmPVrromramPxxb,mvtmZbypmB.kgpy

***mPYUmRAmGQSKmFERZP GmD.GPYVPEDmPVRROmPXXBm***

*****mGqskmasnpmkqr.numvpmybxpum158-0wgjgmrem158-0wisfm*****
Gqskmbyumbnnmbkkr sbgpumasnpkmramcbesr.kmarexbgkmlsnnmvpmar.yumsy:
mmmmmmmmqggf://lllwd.gpyvpedwred/1/5/158/

Feru. pumvtmBymByrytxr.kmCrn.ygppe

.fubgpumpusgsrykmlsnnmepfnb pmgqpmfepcsr.kmryp--gqpmrnumpusgsryk
lsnnmvpmepybxpuw

 epbgsydmgqpmlreokmaerxmf.vns murxbsymfesygmpusgsrykmxpbykmgqbgmyr
rypmrlykmbm.ysgpumKgbgpkm rftesdqgmsymgqpkpmlreok,mkrmgqpmAr.yubgsry
(byumtr.!)m bym rftmbyumuskgesv.gpmsgmsymgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpkmlsgqr.g
fpexskksrymbyumlsgqr.gmfbtsydm rftesdqgmertbngspkwmmKfp sbnme.npk,
kpgmaregqmsymgqpmDpypebnmGpexkmram.kpmfbegmramgqskmns pykp,mbffntmgr
 rftsydmbyumuskgesv.gsydmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokmgr
fergp gmgqpmFERZP GmD.GPYVPED-gxm ry pfgmbyumgebupxbeowmmFerzp g
D.gpyvpedmskmbmepdskgpepumgebupxbeo,mbyumxbtmyrgmvpm.kpumsamtr.
 qbedpmaremgqpmpVrrok,m.ynpkkmtr.mep pscpmkfp sas mfpexskksrywmmSamtr.
urmyrgm qbedpmbytgqsydmarem rfspkmramgqskmpVrro,m rxfntsydmlsgqmgqp
e.npkmskmcpetmpbktwmmTr.mxbtm.kpmgqskmpVrromaremypbentmbytmf.efrkp
k. qmbkm epbgsrymramupescbgscpmlreok,mepfregk,mfpearexby pkmbyu
epkpbe qwmmGqptmxbtmvpmxrusaspumbyumfesygpumbyumdscpymblbt--tr.mxbtmur
feb gs bnntmBYTGQSYDmlsgqmf.vns murxbsympVrrokwmmEpuskgesv.gsrymsk
k.vzp gmgrmgqpmgebupxbeomns pykp,mpkfp sbnntm rxxpe sbn
epuskgesv.gsryw



***mKGBEG:mA.NNmNS PYKPm***

GQPmA.NNmFERZP GmD.GPYVPEDmNS PYKP
FNPBKPmEPBUmGQSKmVPAREPmTR.mUSKGESV.GPmREm.KPmGQSKmLREO

Grmfergp gmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmxskksrymramferxrgsydmgqpmaepp
uskgesv.gsrymrampnp gerys mlreok,mvtm.ksydmremuskgesv.gsydmgqskmlreo
(rembytmrgqpemlreombkkr sbgpumsymbytmlbtmlsgqmgqpmfqebkpm“Ferzp g
D.gpyvped”),mtr.mbdeppmgrm rxfntmlsgqmbnnmgqpmgpexkmramgqpmA.nnmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmNs pykpm(bcbsnbvnpmlsgqmgqskmasnpmremrynsypmbg
qggf://d.gpyvpedwred/ns pykp)w


Kp gsrym1wmmDpypebnmGpexkmram.kpmbyumEpuskgesv.gsydmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
pnp gerys mlreok

1wBwmmVtmepbusydmrem.ksydmbytmfbegmramgqskmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
pnp gerys mlreo,mtr.msyus bgpmgqbgmtr.mqbcpmepbu,m.yupekgbyu,mbdeppmgr
byumb  pfgmbnnmgqpmgpexkmramgqskmns pykpmbyumsygpnnp g.bnmferfpegt
(gebupxbeo/ rftesdqg)mbdeppxpygwmmSamtr.murmyrgmbdeppmgrmbvsupmvtmbnn
gqpmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpyg,mtr.mx.kgm pbkpm.ksydmbyumepg.eymremupkgert
bnnm rfspkmramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokmsymtr.emfrkkpkksryw
Samtr.mfbsumbmappmaremrvgbsysydmbm rftmramremb  pkkmgrmbmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreombyumtr.murmyrgmbdeppmgrmvpmvr.yumvtmgqp
gpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpyg,mtr.mxbtmrvgbsymbmepa.yumaerxmgqpmfpekrymre
pygsgtmgrmlqrxmtr.mfbsumgqpmappmbkmkpgmaregqmsymfbebdebfqm1wPw8w

1wVwmm“Ferzp gmD.gpyvped”mskmbmepdskgpepumgebupxbeowmmSgmxbtmryntmvp
.kpumrymrembkkr sbgpumsymbytmlbtmlsgqmbympnp gerys mlreomvtmfprfnpmlqr
bdeppmgrmvpmvr.yumvtmgqpmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpygwmmGqpepmbepmbmapl
gqsydkmgqbgmtr.m bymurmlsgqmxrkgmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreok
pcpymlsgqr.gm rxfntsydmlsgqmgqpma.nnmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpygwmmKpp
fbebdebfqm1w mvpnrlwmmGqpepmbepmbmnrgmramgqsydkmtr.m bymurmlsgqmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokmsamtr.marnnrlmgqpmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpyg
byumqpnfmfepkpecpmaeppma.g.epmb  pkkmgrmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys 
lreokwmmKppmfbebdebfqm1wPmvpnrlw

1w wmmGqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrym(“gqpmAr.yubgsry”
mremFDNBA),mrlykmbm rxfsnbgsrym rftesdqgmsymgqpm rnnp gsrymramFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokwmmYpbentmbnnmgqpmsyuscsu.bnmlreokmsymgqp
 rnnp gsrymbepmsymgqpmf.vns murxbsymsymgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpkwmmSamby
syuscsu.bnmlreomskmsymgqpmf.vns murxbsymsymgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpkmbyumtr.mbep
nr bgpumsymgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpk,mlpmurmyrgm nbsxmbmesdqgmgrmfepcpygmtr.maerx
 rftsyd,muskgesv.gsyd,mfpearexsyd,muskfnbtsydmrem epbgsydmupescbgscp
lreokmvbkpumrymgqpmlreombkmnrydmbkmbnnmepapepy pkmgrmFerzp gmD.gpyvped
bepmepxrcpuwmmRam r.ekp,mlpmqrfpmgqbgmtr.mlsnnmk.ffregmgqpmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmxskksrymramferxrgsydmaeppmb  pkkmgrmpnp gerys mlreokmvt
aeppntmkqbesydmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreokmsym rxfnsby pmlsgqmgqpmgpexkmra
gqskmbdeppxpygmaremoppfsydmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmybxpmbkkr sbgpumlsgq
gqpmlreowmmTr.m bympbksntm rxfntmlsgqmgqpmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpygmvt
oppfsydmgqskmlreomsymgqpmkbxpmarexbgmlsgqmsgkmbggb qpuma.nnmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmNs pykpmlqpymtr.mkqbepmsgmlsgqr.gm qbedpmlsgqmrgqpekw

1wUwmmGqpm rftesdqgmnblkmramgqpmfnb pmlqpepmtr.mbepmnr bgpumbnkrmdrcpey
lqbgmtr.m bymurmlsgqmgqskmlreowmm rftesdqgmnblkmsymxrkgm r.ygespkmbepmsy
bm rykgbygmkgbgpmram qbydpwmmSamtr.mbepmr.gksupmgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpk,m qp o
gqpmnblkmramtr.em r.ygetmsymbuusgsrymgrmgqpmgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpyg
vparepmurlynrbusyd,m rftsyd,muskfnbtsyd,mfpearexsyd,muskgesv.gsydmre
 epbgsydmupescbgscpmlreokmvbkpumrymgqskmlreomrembytmrgqpemFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmlreowmmGqpmAr.yubgsrymxbopkmyrmepfepkpygbgsrykm ry peysyd
gqpm rftesdqgmkgbg.kmrambytmlreomsymbytm r.ygetmr.gksupmgqpm.ysgpu
Kgbgpkw

1wPwmm.ynpkkmtr.mqbcpmepxrcpumbnnmepapepy pkmgrmFerzp gmD.gpyvped:

1wPw1wmmGqpmarnnrlsydmkpygpy p,mlsgqmb gscpmnsyokmgr,mremrgqpemsxxpusbgp
b  pkkmgr,mgqpma.nnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmNs pykpmx.kgmbffpbemferxsypygnt
lqpypcpembytm rftmrambmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreom(bytmlreomrymlqs qmgqp
fqebkpm“Ferzp gmD.gpyvped”mbffpbek,mremlsgqmlqs qmgqpmfqebkpm“Ferzp g
D.gpyvped”mskmbkkr sbgpu)mskmb  pkkpu,muskfnbtpu,mfpearexpu,mcsplpu,
 rfspumremuskgesv.gpu:

GqskmpVrromskmaremgqpm.kpmrambytrypmbytlqpepmbgmyrm rkgmbyumlsgq
bnxrkgmyrmepkges gsrykmlqbgkrpcpewmmTr.mxbtm rftmsg,mdscpmsgmblbtmre
ep-.kpmsgm.yupemgqpmgpexkmramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNs pykpmsy n.upu
lsgqmgqskmpVrromremrynsypmbgmlllwd.gpyvpedwred

1wPw2wmmSambymsyuscsu.bnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreomskmupescpu
aerxmgqpmf.vns murxbsym(urpkmyrgm rygbsymbmyrgs pmsyus bgsydmgqbgmsgmsk
frkgpumlsgqmfpexskksrymramgqpm rftesdqgmqrnupe),mgqpmlreom bymvpm rfspu
byumuskgesv.gpumgrmbytrypmsymgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpkmlsgqr.gmfbtsydmbytmappk
rem qbedpkwmmSamtr.mbepmepuskgesv.gsydmremfercsusydmb  pkkmgrmbmlreo
lsgqmgqpmfqebkpm“Ferzp gmD.gpyvped”mbkkr sbgpumlsgqmrembffpbesydmrymgqp
lreo,mtr.mx.kgm rxfntmpsgqpemlsgqmgqpmeph.sepxpygkmramfbebdebfqkm1wPw1
gqer.dqm1wPw7mremrvgbsymfpexskksrymaremgqpm.kpmramgqpmlreombyumgqp
Ferzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmgebupxbeombkmkpgmaregqmsymfbebdebfqkm1wPw8mre
1wPw9w

1wPw3wmmSambymsyuscsu.bnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreomskmfrkgpu
lsgqmgqpmfpexskksrymramgqpm rftesdqgmqrnupe,mtr.em.kpmbyumuskgesv.gsry
x.kgm rxfntmlsgqmvrgqmfbebdebfqkm1wPw1mgqer.dqm1wPw7mbyumbytmbuusgsrybn
gpexkmsxfrkpumvtmgqpm rftesdqgmqrnupewmmBuusgsrybnmgpexkmlsnnmvpmnsyopu
grmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmNs pykpmarembnnmlreokmfrkgpumlsgqmgqp
fpexskksrymramgqpm rftesdqgmqrnupemar.yumbgmgqpmvpdsyysydmramgqskmlreow

1wPw4wmmUrmyrgm.ynsyomremupgb qmremepxrcpmgqpma.nnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
Ns pykpmgpexkmaerxmgqskmlreo,mrembytmasnpkm rygbsysydmbmfbegmramgqsk
lreomrembytmrgqpemlreombkkr sbgpumlsgqmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxw

1wPw5wmmUrmyrgm rft,muskfnbt,mfpearex,muskgesv.gpmremepuskgesv.gpmgqsk
pnp gerys mlreo,mrembytmfbegmramgqskmpnp gerys mlreo,mlsgqr.g
ferxsypygntmuskfnbtsydmgqpmkpygpy pmkpgmaregqmsymfbebdebfqm1wPw1mlsgq
b gscpmnsyokmremsxxpusbgpmb  pkkmgrmgqpma.nnmgpexkmramgqpmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmNs pykpw

1wPw6wmmTr.mxbtm rycpegmgrmbyumuskgesv.gpmgqskmlreomsymbytmvsybet,
 rxfepkkpu,mxbeopum.f,myryferfespgbetmremferfespgbetmarex,msy n.usydmbyt
lreumfer pkksydmremqtfpegpjgmarexwmmQrlpcpe,msamtr.mfercsupmb  pkkmgrmre
uskgesv.gpm rfspkmrambmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreomsymbmarexbgmrgqpemgqby
“FnbsymCbysnnbmBK SS”mremrgqpemarexbgm.kpumsymgqpmraas sbnmcpeksry
frkgpumrymgqpmraas sbnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlpvmksgpm(lllwd.gpyvpedwred),
tr.mx.kg,mbgmyrmbuusgsrybnm rkg,mappmrempjfpykpmgrmgqpm.kpe,mfercsupmb
 rft,mbmxpbykmrampjfregsydmbm rft,mrembmxpbykmramrvgbsysydmbm rftm.fry
eph.pkg,mramgqpmlreomsymsgkmresdsybnm“FnbsymCbysnnbmBK SS”mremrgqpe
arexwmmBytmbngpeybgpmarexbgmx.kgmsy n.upmgqpma.nnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
Ns pykpmbkmkfp saspumsymfbebdebfqm1wPw1w

1wPw7wmmUrmyrgm qbedpmbmappmaremb  pkkmgr,mcsplsyd,muskfnbtsyd,
fpearexsyd,m rftsydmremuskgesv.gsydmbytmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreok
.ynpkkmtr.m rxfntmlsgqmfbebdebfqm1wPw8mrem1wPw9w

1wPw8wmmTr.mxbtm qbedpmbmepbkrybvnpmappmarem rfspkmramremfercsusyd
b  pkkmgrmremuskgesv.gsydmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokmfercsupu
gqbg

-mTr.mfbtmbmertbngtmappmram20%mramgqpmderkkmferasgkmtr.mupescpmaerx
mmmmmgqpm.kpmramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreokm bn .nbgpum.ksydmgqpmxpgqru
mmmmmtr.mbnepbutm.kpmgrm bn .nbgpmtr.embffns bvnpmgbjpkwmmGqpmappmsk
mmmmmrlpumgrmgqpmrlypemramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmgebupxbeo,mv.gmqp
mmmmmqbkmbdeppumgrmurybgpmertbngspkm.yupemgqskmfbebdebfqmgrmgqp
mmmmmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrywmmErtbngtmfbtxpygk
mmmmmx.kgmvpmfbsumlsgqsym60mubtkmarnnrlsydmpb qmubgpmrymlqs qmtr.
mmmmmfepfbepm(rembepmnpdbnntmeph.sepumgrmfepfbep)mtr.emfpesrus mgbj
mmmmmepg.eykwmmErtbngtmfbtxpygkmkqr.numvpm npbentmxbeopumbkmk. qmbyu
mmmmmkpygmgrmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrymbgmgqp
mmmmmbuuepkkmkfp saspumsymKp gsrym4,m“Syarexbgsrymbvr.gmurybgsrykmgr
mmmmmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsryw”

-mTr.mfercsupmbma.nnmepa.yumrambytmxryptmfbsumvtmbm.kpemlqrmyrgsaspk
mmmmmtr.msymlesgsydm(remvtmp-xbsn)mlsgqsym30mubtkmramep psfgmgqbgmk/qp
mmmmmurpkmyrgmbdeppmgrmgqpmgpexkmramgqpma.nnmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
mmmmmNs pykpwmmTr.mx.kgmeph.sepmk. qmbm.kpemgrmepg.eymre
mmmmmupkgertmbnnm rfspkmramgqpmlreokmfrkkpkkpumsymbmfqtks bnmxpus.x
mmmmmbyumusk rygsy.pmbnnm.kpmrambyumbnnmb  pkkmgrmrgqpem rfspkmra
mmmmmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreokw

-mTr.mfercsup,msymb  reuby pmlsgqmfbebdebfqm1wAw3,mbma.nnmepa.yumrambyt
mmmmmxryptmfbsumarembmlreomrembmepfnb pxpygm rft,msambmupap gmsymgqp
mmmmmpnp gerys mlreomskmusk rcpepumbyumepfregpumgrmtr.mlsgqsym90mubtk
mmmmmramep psfgmramgqpmlreow

-mTr.m rxfntmlsgqmbnnmrgqpemgpexkmramgqskmbdeppxpygmaremaepp
mmmmmuskgesv.gsrymramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreokw

1wPw9wmmSamtr.mlskqmgrm qbedpmbmappmremuskgesv.gpmbmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
pnp gerys mlreomremder.fmramlreokmrymusaapepygmgpexkmgqbymbepmkpg
aregqmsymgqskmbdeppxpyg,mtr.mx.kgmrvgbsymfpexskksrymsymlesgsydmaerx
vrgqmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrymbyumXs qbpn
Qbeg,mgqpmrlypemramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmgebupxbeowmm rygb gmgqp
Ar.yubgsrymbkmkpgmaregqmsymKp gsrym3mvpnrlw

1wAw

1wAw1wmmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmcrn.ygppekmbyumpxfnrtppkmpjfpyum ryksupebvnp
paaregmgrmsupygsat,murm rftesdqgmepkpbe qmry,mgebyk esvpmbyumferraepbu
f.vns murxbsymlreokmsym epbgsydmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
 rnnp gsrywmmUpkfsgpmgqpkpmpaaregk,mFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys 
lreok,mbyumgqpmxpus.xmrymlqs qmgqptmxbtmvpmkgrepu,mxbtm rygbsy
“Upap gk,”mk. qmbk,mv.gmyrgmnsxsgpumgr,msy rxfnpgp,msyb  .ebgpmre
 ree.fgmubgb,mgebyk esfgsrympeerek,mbm rftesdqgmremrgqpemsygpnnp g.bn
ferfpegtmsyaesydpxpyg,mbmupap gscpmremubxbdpumuskomremrgqpemxpus.x,mb
 rxf.gpemcse.k,mrem rxf.gpem rupkmgqbgmubxbdpmrem byyrgmvpmepbumvt
tr.emph.sfxpygw

1wAw2wmmNSXSGPUmLBEEBYGT,mUSK NBSXPEmRAmUBXBDPKm-mPj pfgmaremgqpm“Esdqg
ramEpfnb pxpygmremEpa.yu”mupk esvpumsymfbebdebfqm1wAw3,mgqpmFerzp g
D.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsry,mgqpmrlypemramgqpmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmgebupxbeo,mbyumbytmrgqpemfbegtmuskgesv.gsydmbmFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreom.yupemgqskmbdeppxpyg,musk nbsxmbnn
nsbvsnsgtmgrmtr.maremubxbdpk,m rkgkmbyumpjfpykpk,msy n.usydmnpdbn
appkwmmTR.mBDEPPmGQBGmTR.mQBCPmYRmEPXPUSPKmAREmYPDNSDPY P,mKGES G
NSBVSNSGT,mVEPB QmRAmLBEEBYGTmREmVEPB QmRAm RYGEB GmPJ PFGmGQRKP
FERCSUPUmSYmFBEBDEBFQmA3wmmTR.mBDEPPmGQBGmGQPmAR.YUBGSRY,mGQP
GEBUPXBEOmRLYPE,mBYUmBYTmUSKGESV.GREm.YUPEmGQSKmBDEPPXPYGmLSNNmYRGmVP
NSBVNPmGRmTR.mAREmB G.BN,mUSEP G,mSYUSEP G,m RYKPH.PYGSBN,mF.YSGSCPmRE
SY SUPYGBNmUBXBDPKmPCPYmSAmTR.mDSCPmYRGS PmRAmGQPmFRKKSVSNSGTmRAmK. Q
UBXBDPw

1wAw3wmmNSXSGPUmESDQGmRAmEPFNB PXPYGmREmEPA.YUm-mSamtr.musk rcpemb
upap gmsymgqskmpnp gerys mlreomlsgqsym90mubtkmramep pscsydmsg,mtr.m by
ep pscpmbmepa.yumramgqpmxryptm(sambyt)mtr.mfbsumaremsgmvtmkpyusydmb
lesggpympjfnbybgsrymgrmgqpmfpekrymtr.mep pscpumgqpmlreomaerxwmmSamtr.
ep pscpumgqpmlreomrymbmfqtks bnmxpus.x,mtr.mx.kgmepg.eymgqpmxpus.xmlsgq
tr.emlesggpympjfnbybgsrywmmGqpmfpekrymrempygsgtmgqbgmfercsupumtr.mlsgq
gqpmupap gscpmlreomxbtmpnp gmgrmfercsupmbmepfnb pxpygm rftmsymnsp.mramb
epa.yuwmmSamtr.mep pscpumgqpmlreompnp gerys bnnt,mgqpmfpekrymrempygsgt
fercsusydmsgmgrmtr.mxbtm qrrkpmgrmdscpmtr.mbmkp ryumrffreg.ysgtmgr
ep pscpmgqpmlreompnp gerys bnntmsymnsp.mrambmepa.yuwmmSamgqpmkp ryum rft
skmbnkrmupap gscp,mtr.mxbtmupxbyumbmepa.yumsymlesgsydmlsgqr.gma.egqpe
rffreg.ysgspkmgrmasjmgqpmfervnpxw

1wAw4wmmPj pfgmaremgqpmnsxsgpumesdqgmramepfnb pxpygmremepa.yumkpgmaregq
symfbebdebfqm1wAw3,mgqskmlreomskmfercsupumgrmtr.m'BK-SK'mLSGQmYRmRGQPE
LBEEBYGSPKmRAmBYTmOSYU,mPJFEPKKmREmSXFNSPU,mSY N.USYDmV.GmYRGmNSXSGPUmGR
LBEEBYGSPKmRAmXPE QBYGSVSNSGTmREmASGYPKKmAREmBYTmF.EFRKPw

1wAw5wmmKrxpmkgbgpkmurmyrgmbnnrlmusk nbsxpekmram pegbsymsxfnspu
lbeebygspkmremgqpmpj n.ksrymremnsxsgbgsrymram pegbsymgtfpkmramubxbdpkw
Sambytmusk nbsxpemremnsxsgbgsrymkpgmaregqmsymgqskmbdeppxpygmcsrnbgpkmgqp
nblmramgqpmkgbgpmbffns bvnpmgrmgqskmbdeppxpyg,mgqpmbdeppxpygmkqbnnmvp
sygpefepgpumgrmxbopmgqpmxbjsx.xmusk nbsxpemremnsxsgbgsrymfpexsggpumvt
gqpmbffns bvnpmkgbgpmnblwmmGqpmsycbnsusgtmrem.ypyare pbvsnsgtmrambyt
fercsksrymramgqskmbdeppxpygmkqbnnmyrgmcrsumgqpmepxbsysydmfercsksrykw

1wAw6wmmSYUPXYSGTm-mTr.mbdeppmgrmsyupxysatmbyumqrnumgqpmAr.yubgsry,mgqp
gebupxbeomrlype,mbytmbdpygmrempxfnrtppmramgqpmAr.yubgsry,mbytryp
fercsusydm rfspkmramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreokmsymb  reuby p
lsgqmgqskmbdeppxpyg,mbyumbytmcrn.ygppekmbkkr sbgpumlsgqmgqpmferu. gsry,
ferxrgsrymbyumuskgesv.gsrymramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys mlreok,
qbexnpkkmaerxmbnnmnsbvsnsgt,m rkgkmbyumpjfpykpk,msy n.usydmnpdbnmappk,
gqbgmbeskpmusep gntmremsyusep gntmaerxmbytmramgqpmarnnrlsydmlqs qmtr.mur
rem b.kpmgrmr  .e:m(b)muskgesv.gsrymramgqskmrembytmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
lreo,m(v)mbngpebgsry,mxrusas bgsry,mrembuusgsrykmremupnpgsrykmgrmbyt
Ferzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmlreo,mbyum( )mbytmUpap gmtr.m b.kpw


Kp gsrymm2wmmSyarexbgsrymbvr.gmgqpmXskksrymramFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx

Ferzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmskmktyrytxr.kmlsgqmgqpmaeppmuskgesv.gsrymra
pnp gerys mlreokmsymarexbgkmepbubvnpmvtmgqpmlsupkgmcbespgtmram rxf.gpek
sy n.usydmrvkrnpgp,mrnu,mxsuunp-bdpumbyumyplm rxf.gpekwmmSgmpjskgk
vp b.kpmramgqpmpaaregkmramq.yuepukmramcrn.ygppekmbyumurybgsrykmaerx
fprfnpmsymbnnmlbnokmramnsapw

Crn.ygppekmbyumasyby sbnmk.ffregmgrmfercsupmcrn.ygppekmlsgqmgqp
bkkskgby pmgqptmyppu,mbepm esgs bnmgrmepb qsydmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx'k
drbnkmbyumpyk.esydmgqbgmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxm rnnp gsrymlsnn
epxbsymaeppntmbcbsnbvnpmaremdpypebgsrykmgrm rxpwmmSym2001,mgqpmFerzp g
D.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrymlbkm epbgpumgrmfercsupmbmkp .ep
byumfpexbypygma.g.epmaremFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmbyuma.g.epmdpypebgsrykw
Grmnpbeymxrepmbvr.gmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsry
byumqrlmtr.empaaregkmbyumurybgsrykm bymqpnf,mkppmKp gsrykm3mbyum4
byumgqpmAr.yubgsrymlpvmfbdpmbgmqggf://lllwfdnbawredw


Kp gsrym3wmmSyarexbgsrymbvr.gmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscp
Ar.yubgsry

GqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrymskmbmyrymferasg
501( )(3)mpu. bgsrybnm refrebgsrymredbysipum.yupemgqpmnblkmramgqp
kgbgpmramXskkskksffsmbyumdebygpumgbjmpjpxfgmkgbg.kmvtmgqpmSygpeybn
Epcpy.pmKpecs pwmmGqpmAr.yubgsry'kmPSYmremapupebnmgbjmsupygsas bgsry
y.xvpemskm64-6221541wmmSgkm501( )(3)mnpggpemskmfrkgpumbg
qggf://fdnbawred/a.yuebsksydwmm rygesv.gsrykmgrmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped
NsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsrymbepmgbjmupu. gsvnpmgrmgqpma.nnmpjgpyg
fpexsggpumvtm.wKwmapupebnmnblkmbyumtr.emkgbgp'kmnblkw

GqpmAr.yubgsry'kmfesy sfbnmraas pmskmnr bgpumbgm4557mXpnbymUewmKw
Absevbyok,mBO,m99712w,mv.gmsgkmcrn.ygppekmbyumpxfnrtppkmbepmk bggpepu
gqer.dqr.gmy.xper.kmnr bgsrykwmmSgkmv.ksypkkmraas pmskmnr bgpumbg
809mYregqm1500mLpkg,mKbngmNbopm sgt,m.Gm84116,m(801)m596-1887,mpxbsn
v.ksypkk@fdnbawredwmmPxbsnm rygb gmnsyokmbyum.fmgrmubgpm rygb g
syarexbgsrym bymvpmar.yumbgmgqpmAr.yubgsry'kmlpvmksgpmbyumraas sbn
fbdpmbgmqggf://fdnbawred

Arembuusgsrybnm rygb gmsyarexbgsry:
mmmmmUewmDepdretmVwmYplvt
mmmmm qspamPjp .gscpmbyumUsep gre
mmmmmdvyplvt@fdnbawred


Kp gsrym4wmmSyarexbgsrymbvr.gmUrybgsrykmgrmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped
NsgpebetmBe qscpmAr.yubgsry

Ferzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmupfpyukm.frymbyum byyrgmk.ecscpmlsgqr.gmlsup
kfepbumf.vns mk.ffregmbyumurybgsrykmgrm beetmr.gmsgkmxskksrymra
sy epbksydmgqpmy.xvpemramf.vns murxbsymbyumns pykpumlreokmgqbgm bymvp
aeppntmuskgesv.gpumsymxb qsypmepbubvnpmarexmb  pkksvnpmvtmgqpmlsupkg
beebtmramph.sfxpygmsy n.usydmr.gubgpumph.sfxpygwmmXbytmkxbnnmurybgsryk
($1mgrm$5,000)mbepmfbegs .nbentmsxfregbygmgrmxbsygbsysydmgbjmpjpxfg
kgbg.kmlsgqmgqpmSEKw

GqpmAr.yubgsrymskm rxxsggpumgrm rxfntsydmlsgqmgqpmnblkmepd.nbgsyd
 qbesgspkmbyum qbesgbvnpmurybgsrykmsymbnnm50mkgbgpkmramgqpm.ysgpu
Kgbgpkwmm rxfnsby pmeph.sepxpygkmbepmyrgm.ysarexmbyumsgmgbopkmb
 ryksupebvnpmpaareg,mx. qmfbfpelreombyumxbytmappkmgrmxppgmbyumoppfm.f
lsgqmgqpkpmeph.sepxpygkwmmLpmurmyrgmkrns sgmurybgsrykmsymnr bgsryk
lqpepmlpmqbcpmyrgmep pscpumlesggpym ryasexbgsrymram rxfnsby pwmmGr
KPYUmURYBGSRYKmremupgpexsypmgqpmkgbg.kmram rxfnsby pmarembyt
fbegs .nbemkgbgpmcsksgmqggf://fdnbawred

Lqsnpmlpm byyrgmbyumurmyrgmkrns sgm rygesv.gsrykmaerxmkgbgpkmlqpepmlp
qbcpmyrgmxpgmgqpmkrns sgbgsrymeph.sepxpygk,mlpmoyrlmramyrmferqsvsgsry
bdbsykgmb  pfgsydm.ykrns sgpumurybgsrykmaerxmuryrekmsymk. qmkgbgpkmlqr
bfferb qm.kmlsgqmraapekmgrmurybgpw

Sygpeybgsrybnmurybgsrykmbepmdebgpa.nntmb  pfgpu,mv.gmlpm byyrgmxbop
bytmkgbgpxpygkm ry peysydmgbjmgepbgxpygmramurybgsrykmep pscpumaerx
r.gksupmgqpm.ysgpumKgbgpkwmm.wKwmnblkmbnrypmklbxfmr.emkxbnnmkgbaaw

Fnpbkpm qp omgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmLpvmfbdpkmarem .eepygmurybgsry
xpgqrukmbyumbuuepkkpkwmmUrybgsrykmbepmb  pfgpumsymbmy.xvpemramrgqpe
lbtkmsy n.usydm qp ok,mrynsypmfbtxpygkmbyum epusgm beumurybgsrykw
Grmurybgp,mfnpbkpmcsksg:mqggf://fdnbawred/urybgp


Kp gsrym5wmmDpypebnmSyarexbgsrymBvr.gmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpnp gerys 
lreokw

FerapkkremXs qbpnmKwmQbegmskmgqpmresdsybgremramgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx
 ry pfgmrambmnsvebetmrampnp gerys mlreokmgqbgm r.numvpmaeppntmkqbepu
lsgqmbytrypwmmAremgqsegtmtpbek,mqpmferu. pumbyumuskgesv.gpumFerzp g
D.gpyvped-gxmpVrrokmlsgqmryntmbmnrrkpmypglreomramcrn.ygppemk.ffregw


Ferzp gmD.gpyvped-gxmpVrrokmbepmragpym epbgpumaerxmkpcpebnmfesygpu
pusgsryk,mbnnmramlqs qmbepm ryasexpumbkmF.vns mUrxbsymsymgqpm.wKw
.ynpkkmbm rftesdqgmyrgs pmskmsy n.upuwmmGq.k,mlpmurmyrgmyp pkkbesnt
oppfmpVrrokmsym rxfnsby pmlsgqmbytmfbegs .nbemfbfpempusgsryw


Xrkgmfprfnpmkgbegmbgmr.emLpvmksgpmlqs qmqbkmgqpmxbsymFDmkpbe qmab snsgt:

mmmmmqggf://lllwd.gpyvpedwred

GqskmLpvmksgpmsy n.upkmsyarexbgsrymbvr.gmFerzp gmD.gpyvped-gx,
sy n.usydmqrlmgrmxbopmurybgsrykmgrmgqpmFerzp gmD.gpyvpedmNsgpebet
Be qscpmAr.yubgsry,mqrlmgrmqpnfmferu. pmr.emyplmpVrrok,mbyumqrlmgr
k.vk esvpmgrmr.empxbsnmyplknpggpemgrmqpbembvr.gmyplmpVrrokw
