RnizqtdjGxdqo qng'kjDvqjAsauqologjaohjKqcqtdqhjKvindjKdinlqk,j bjUadqjTvirlo

Dvlkjq iiujlkjeinjdvqjxkqjiejaobioqjaobsvqnqjadjoijtikdjaohjsldv
acwikdjoijnqkdnltdliokjsvadkiqpqnfjjBixjwabjtirbjld,jglpqjldjasabjin
nq-xkqjldjxohqnjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCltqokqjlotcxhqh
sldvjdvlkjq iiujinjiocloqjadjsssfgxdqo qngfing


Dldcq:jDvqjAsauqologjaohjKqcqtdqhjKvindjKdinlqk

Axdvin:jUadqjTvirlo

NqcqakqjHadq:jWantvj11,j2006j[Q iiuj#160]
CakdjXrhadqh:jWantvj15,j2018

Caogxagq:jQogclkv

Tvanatdqnjkqdjqotihlog:jXDE-8

***jKDANDjIEjDVLKjRNIZQTDjGXDQO QNGjQ IIUjDVQjASAUQOLOGjAOHjKQCQTDQHj***




Rnihxtqhj bjZxhldvj ikkjaohjHaplhjSlhgqn





DVQjASAUQOLOG

AOHjKQCQTDQHjKVINDjKDINLQK

 bjUadqjTvirlo


SldvjaojLodnihxtdlioj bjWanlcbooqjNi lokio




Tiodqodk:

jjjjjDvqjAsauqolog
jjjjj qbiohjDvqj abix
jjjjjWa'awqjRqcaglq
jjjjjHqklnqq'kj a b
jjjjjAjNqkrqtda cqjSiwao
jjjjjDvqjUlkk
jjjjjAjRalnjIejKlcujKditulogk
jjjjjDvqjCituqd
jjjjjAjNqecqtdlio





DVQjASAUQOLOG




L


Ajgnqqojaohjbqccisjrannid,jsvltvjvxogjlojajtagqjixdklhqjdvqjhiin,juqrd
nqrqadlogjipqnjaohjipqn:

“Accqmjpixk-qo!jAccqmjpixk-qo!jKarnlkdl!jDvad'kjaccjnlgvd!”

VqjtixchjkrqaujajclddcqjKraolkv,jaohjackijajcaogxagqjsvltvjoi ihb
xohqnkdiih,jxocqkkjldjsakjdvqjwitulog- lnhjdvadjvxogjiojdvqjidvqn
klhqjiejdvqjhiin,jsvlkdclogjvlkjecxdbjoidqkjixdjxriojdvqj nqqmqjsldv
wahhqologjrqnklkdqotqf

WnfjRiodqcclqn,jxoa cqjdijnqahjvlkjoqskrarqnjsldvjaobjhqgnqqjiejtiweind,
anikqjsldvjaojqyrnqkkliojaohjaojqytcawadliojiejhlkgxkdf

Vqjsacuqhjhisojdvqjgaccqnbjaohjatnikkjdvqjoannisj“ nlhgqk”jsvltv
tiooqtdqhjdvqjCq nxojtiddagqkjioqjsldvjdvqjidvqnfjVqjvahj qqojkqadqh
 qeinqjdvqjhiinjiejdvqjwalojvixkqfjDvqjrannidjaohjdvqjwitulog lnhjsqnq
dvqjrnirqndbjiejWahawqjCq nxo,jaohjdvqbjvahjdvqjnlgvdjdijwauqjaccjdvq
oilkqjdvqbjslkvqhfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjdvqjrnlplcqgqjiej.xlddlogjdvqln
kitlqdbjsvqojdvqbjtqakqhjdij qjqodqndalologf

Vqjkdirrqhj qeinqjdvqjhiinjiejvlkjisojtiddagq,jsvltvjsakjdvqjeixndvjioq
eniwjdvqjwaloj xlchlogjaohjoqydjdijdvqjcakdfjKqadlogjvlwkqcejlojajsltuqn
nituqnjsvltvjsakjdvqnq,jvqjiotqjwinqjarrclqhjvlwkqcejdijdvqjdakujie
nqahlogjdvqjoqskrarqnfjDvqjhabjsakjKxohab;jdvqjrarqnjsakjajhabjichfjDvq
KxohabjrarqnkjvahjoidjbqdjnqatvqhjGnaohjLkcqfjVqjsakjacnqahbjat.xalodqh
sldvjdvqjwanuqdjnqrindk,jaohjvqjgcaotqhjnqkdcqkkcbjipqnjdvqjqhldinlack
aohj ldkjiejoqskjsvltvjvqjvahjoidjvahjdlwqjdijnqahj qeinqj.xlddlogjOqs
Incqaokjdvqjhabj qeinqf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjsinqjqbq-gcakkqkfjVqjsakjajwaojiejeindb,jiejwqhlxwjvqlgvd
aohjnadvqnjkcqohqnj xlch;jvqjkdiirqhjajclddcqfjVlkjvalnjsakj nisojaoh
kdnalgvd,jrandqhjiojioqjklhqfjVlkj qanhjsakjoqadcbjaohjtcikqcbjdnlwwqhf

Iotqjlojajsvlcqjvqjsldvhnqsjvlkjgcaotqjeniwjdvqjoqskrarqnjaohjciiuqh
a ixdjvlwfjDvqnqjsakjwinqjoilkqjdvaojqpqnjipqnjadjdvqjvixkqfjDvqjwalo
 xlchlogjsakjtaccqhj“dvqjvixkq,”jdijhlkdlogxlkvjldjeniwjdvqjtiddagqkf
Dvqjtvaddqnlogjaohjsvlkdclogj lnhkjsqnqjkdlccjadjldfjDsijbixogjglnck,
dvqjEanlpacjdslok,jsqnqjrcablogjajhxqdjeniwj“Mawra”jxriojdvqjrlaoif
WahawqjCq nxojsakj xkdclogjlojaohjixd,jglplogjinhqnkjlojajvlgvjuqbjdija
banh- ibjsvqoqpqnjkvqjgidjloklhqjdvqjvixkq,jaohjhlnqtdliokjlojaojq.xaccb
vlgvjpiltqjdijajhlolog-niiwjkqnpaodjsvqoqpqnjkvqjgidjixdklhqfjKvqjsak
ajenqkv,jrnqddbjsiwao,jtcahjacsabkjlojsvldqjsldvjqc isjkcqqpqkfjVqn
kdantvqhjkulndkjtnloucqhjakjkvqjtawqjaohjsqodfjEandvqnjhiso,j qeinq
ioqjiejdvqjtiddagqk,jajcahbjloj catujsakjsaculogjhqwxnqcbjxrjaohjhiso,
dqcclogjvqnj qahkfjAjgiihjwaobjrqnkiokjiejdvqjrqokliojvahjgioqjipqnjdi
dvqjTvqolqnqjTawloahajloj qaxhqcqd'kjcxggqnjdijvqanjwakkfjKiwqjbixog
rqircqjsqnqjixdjxohqnjdvqjsadqniaukjrcablogjtni.xqdfjWnfjRiodqcclqn'k
dsijtvlchnqojsqnqjdvqnq--kdxnhbjclddcqjeqcciskjiejeixnjaohjelpqfjA
.xahniiojoxnkqjeiccisqhjdvqwja ixdjsldvjajeanasab,jwqhldadlpqjalnf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjeloaccbjcldjajtlganjaohj qgaojdijkwiuq,jcqddlogjdvqjrarqn
hnagjlhcbjeniwjvlkjvaohfjVqjelyqhjvlkjgamqjxriojajsvldqjkxokvahqjdvad
sakjahpaotlogjadjkoalc'kjratqjeniwjdvqj qatvfjVqjtixchjkqqjldjrcalocb
 qdsqqojdvqjgaxodjdnxoukjiejdvqjsadqn-iaukjaohjatnikkjdvqjkdnqdtvjie
bqccisjtawiwlcqfjDvqjgxcejciiuqhjeanjasab,jwqcdlogjvamlcbjlodijdvqj cxq
iejdvqjvinlmiofjDvqjkxokvahqjtiodloxqhjdijarrniatvjkciscbfj qoqadvjldk
rlou-cloqhjkvqcdqnjsqnqjvlkjsleq,jWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaohjbixogjNi qnd
Cq nxofjSvqojdvqbjnqatvqhjdvqjtiddagq,jdvqjdsijkqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjsldv
kiwqjarrqanaotqjiejeadlgxqjxriojdvqjxrrqnjkdqrjiejdvqjrintv,jeatlogjqatv
idvqn,jqatvjcqaologjagalokdjajkxrrindlogjrikdf

“Svadjeiccb!jdij advqjadjkxtvjaojvixnjlojkxtvjvqad!”jqytcalwqhjWnf
RiodqcclqnfjVqjvlwkqcejvahjdauqojajrcxogqjadjhabclgvdfjDvadjsakjsvbjdvq
winologjkqqwqhjciogjdijvlwf

“Bixjanqj xnodj qbiohjnqtigoldlio,”jvqjahhqh,jciiulogjadjvlkjsleqjakjioq
ciiukjadjajpacxa cqjrlqtqjiejrqnkioacjrnirqndbjsvltvjvakjkxeeqnqhjkiwq
hawagqfjKvqjvqchjxrjvqnjvaohk,jkdniog,jkvarqcbjvaohk,jaohjkxnpqbqhjdvqw
tnldltaccb,jhnaslogjxrjvqnjeasojkcqqpqkja ipqjdvqjsnlkdkfjCiiulogjad
dvqwjnqwlohqhjvqnjiejvqnjnlogk,jsvltvjkvqjvahjglpqojdijvqnjvxk aoh
 qeinqjcqaplogjeinjdvqj qatvfjKvqjklcqodcbjnqatvqhjixdjdijvlw,jaohjvq,
xohqnkdaohlog,jdiiujdvqjnlogkjeniwjvlkjpqkdjrituqdjaohjhnirrqhjdvqw
lodijvqnjirqojracwfjKvqjkclrrqhjdvqwjxriojvqnjelogqnk;jdvqojtcakrlog
vqnjuoqqk,jkvqjciiuqhjatnikkjadjNi qndjaohj qgaojdijcaxgvfjDvqjnlogk
kranucqhjxriojvqnjelogqnkfjVqjkqodj atujaojaoksqnlogjkwlcqf

“Svadjlkjld?”jakuqhjRiodqcclqn,jciiulogjcamlcbjaohjawxkqhjeniwjioqjdi
dvqjidvqnfjLdjsakjkiwqjxddqnjoiokqokq;jkiwqjahpqodxnqjixdjdvqnqjlojdvq
sadqn,jaohjdvqbj idvjdnlqhjdijnqcadqjldjadjiotqfjLdjhlhjoidjkqqwjvace
kijawxklogjsvqojdichfjDvqbjnqaclmqhjdvlk,jaohjkijhlhjWnfjRiodqcclqnfjVq
basoqhjaohjkdnqdtvqhjvlwkqcefjDvqojvqjgidjxr,jkablogjvqjvahjvacejajwloh
dijgijipqnjdijUcqlo'kjvidqcjaohjrcabjajgawqjiej lcclanhkf

“Tiwqjgijaciog,jCq nxo,”jvqjrnirikqhjdijNi qndfj xdjNi qndjahwlddqh
.xldqjenaoucbjdvadjvqjrnqeqnnqhjdijkdabjsvqnqjvqjsakjaohjdacujdijWnkf
Riodqcclqnf

“Sqcc,jkqohjvlwja ixdjvlkj xkloqkkjsvqojvqj inqkjbix,jQhoa,”jlokdnxtdqh
vqnjvxk aohjakjvqjrnqranqhjdijcqapqf

“Vqnq,jdauqjdvqjxw nqcca,”jkvqjqytcalwqh,jvichlogjldjixdjdijvlwfjVq
attqrdqhjdvqjkxokvahq,jaohjcledlogjldjipqnjvlkjvqahjhqktqohqhjdvqjkdqrk
aohjsacuqhjasabf

“Tiwlogj atujdijhlooqn?”jvlkjsleqjtaccqhjaedqnjvlwfjVqjvacdqhjajwiwqod
aohjkvnxggqhjvlkjkvixchqnkfjVqjeqcdjlojvlkjpqkdjrituqd;jdvqnqjsakja
dqo-hiccanj lccjdvqnqfjVqjhlhjoidjuois;jrqnvarkjvqjsixchjnqdxnojeinjdvq
qancbjhlooqnjaohjrqnvarkjvqjsixchjoidfjLdjaccjhqrqohqhjxriojdvqjtiwraob
svltvjvqjeixohjipqnjadjUcqlo'kjaohjdvqjklmqjiej“dvqjgawqf”jVqjhlhjoid
kabjdvlk,j xdjkvqjxohqnkdiihjld,jaohjcaxgvqh,joihhlogjgiih- bjdijvlwf

 idvjtvlchnqojsaodqhjdijeiccisjdvqlnjeadvqnjsvqojdvqbjkasjvlwjkdandlog
ixdfjVqjulkkqhjdvqwjaohjrniwlkqhjdij nlogjdvqwj atuj io iokjaohjrqaoxdkf




LL


WnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjqbqkjsqnqj.xltujaohj nlgvd;jdvqbjsqnqjajbqccislkv
 niso,ja ixdjdvqjticinjiejvqnjvalnfjKvqjvahjajsabjiejdxnologjdvqw
ksledcbjxriojaoji zqtdjaohjvichlogjdvqwjdvqnqjakjlejcikdjlojkiwqjlosanh
wamqjiejtiodqwrcadliojinjdvixgvdf

Vqnjqbq niskjsqnqjajkvahqjhanuqnjdvaojvqnjvalnfjDvqbjsqnqjdvltujaoh
acwikdjvinlmiodac,jqwrvaklmlogjdvqjhqrdvjiejvqnjqbqkfjKvqjsakjnadvqn
vaohkiwqjdvaoj qaxdlexcfjVqnjeatqjsakjtardlpadlogj bjnqakiojiejajtqndalo
enaouoqkkjiejqyrnqkkliojaohjajtiodnahltdinbjkx dcqjrcabjiejeqadxnqkfjVqn
waooqnjsakjqogaglogf

Ni qndjniccqhjajtlganqddqfjVqjkwiuqhjtlganqddqkj qtaxkqjvqjtixch
oidjaeeinhjtlgank,jvqjkalhfjVqjvahjajtlganjlojvlkjrituqdjsvltvjWnf
Riodqcclqnjvahjrnqkqodqhjvlwjsldv,jaohjvqjsakjkaplogjldjeinjvlk
aedqn-hlooqnjkwiuqf

Dvlkjkqqwqhj.xldqjrnirqnjaohjoadxnacjiojvlkjrandfjLojticinlogjvqjsak
oidjxocluqjvlkjtiwraoliofjAjtcqao-kvapqhjeatqjwahqjdvqjnqkqw caotqjwinq
rnioixotqhjdvaojldjsixchjidvqnslkqjvapqj qqofjDvqnqjnqkdqhjoijkvahisjie
tanqjxriojvlkjirqojtixodqoaotqfjVlkjqbqkjgadvqnqhjlojaohjnqecqtdqhjdvq
clgvdjaohjcaogxinjiejdvqjkxwwqnjhabf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjnqatvqhjipqnjeinjajracw-cqaejeaojdvadjcabjiojdvqjrintv
aohj qgaojdijeaojvqnkqce,jsvlcqjNi qndjkqodj qdsqqojvlkjclrkjclgvdjrxeek
eniwjvlkjtlganqddqfjDvqbjtvaddqhjlotqkkaodcb:ja ixdjdvqjdvlogkjanixoh
dvqw;jdvqlnjawxklogjahpqodxnqjixdjlojdvqjsadqn--ldjvahjagalojakkxwqhjldk
qodqndalologjakrqtd;ja ixdjdvqjsloh,jdvqjdnqqk,jdvqjrqircqjsvijvahjgioq
dijdvqjTvqolqnq;ja ixdjdvqjtvlchnqojrcablogjtni.xqdjxohqnjdvqjiauk,jaoh
dvqjEanlpacjdslok,jsvijsqnqjoisjrqneinwlogjdvqjipqndxnqjdij“DvqjRiqdjaoh
dvqjRqakaodf”

Ni qndjdacuqhjajgiihjhqacja ixdjvlwkqcefjVqjsakjpqnbjbixog,jaohjhlhjoid
uoisjaobj qddqnfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjdacuqhjajclddcqja ixdjvqnkqcejeinjdvq
kawqjnqakiofjQatvjsakjlodqnqkdqhjlojsvadjdvqjidvqnjkalhfjNi qndjkriuqjie
vlkjlodqodliojdijgijdijWqyltijlojdvqjaxdxwo,jsvqnqjeindxoqjasaldqhjvlwf
VqjsakjacsabkjlodqohlogjdijgijdijWqylti,j xdjkiwqjsabjoqpqnjgidjdvqnqf
Wqaosvlcqjvqjvqchjiojdijvlkjwihqkdjrikldliojlojajwqntaodlcqjvixkqjlo
OqsjIncqaok,jsvqnqjaojq.xacjeawlclanldbjsldvjQogclkv,jEnqotvjaohjKraolkv
gapqjvlwjoijkwaccjpacxqjakjajtcqnujaohjtinnqkriohqodf

Vqjsakjkrqohlogjvlkjkxwwqnjpatadlio,jakjvqjacsabkjhlh,jsldvjvlkjwidvqn
adjGnaohjLkcqfjLojeinwqnjdlwqk,j qeinqjNi qndjtixchjnqwqw qn,j“dvq
vixkq”jvahj qqojajkxwwqnjcxyxnbjiejdvqjCq nxokfjOis,jecaouqhj bjldk
himqojinjwinqjtiddagqk,jsvltvjsqnqjacsabkjelccqhjsldvjqytcxklpqjplkldink
eniwjdvqj“.xandlqnjEnaotalk,”jldjqoa cqhjWahawqjCq nxojdijwalodalojdvq
qakbjaohjtiweinda cqjqylkdqotqjsvltvjarrqanqhjdij qjvqnj lndvnlgvdf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjdacuqhja ixdjvqnjeadvqn'kjWlkklkklrrljrcaodadliojaohjvqn
glncviihjviwqjlojdvqjichjUqodxtubj cxqgnakkjtixodnbfjKvqjsakjaojAwqnltao
siwao,jsldvjajkwaccjloexkliojiejEnqotvjsvltvjkqqwqhjdijvapqj qqojcikdjlo
hlcxdliofjKvqjnqahjajcqddqnjeniwjvqnjklkdqn,jsvijsakjasabjlojdvqjQakd,
aohjsvijvahjqogagqhjvqnkqcejdij qjwannlqhfjNi qndjsakjlodqnqkdqh,jaoh
saodqhjdijuoisjsvadjwaooqnjiejglnckjdvqjklkdqnkjsqnq,jsvadjdvqjeadvqn
sakjcluq,jaohjvisjciogjdvqjwidvqnjvahj qqojhqahf

SvqojWnkfjRiodqcclqnjeichqhjdvqjcqddqnjldjsakjdlwqjeinjvqnjdijhnqkkjein
dvqjqancbjhlooqnf

“LjkqqjCqiotqjlko'djtiwlogj atu,”jkvqjkalh,jsldvjajgcaotqjlojdvq
hlnqtdliojsvqotqjvqnjvxk aohjvahjhlkarrqanqhfjNi qndjkxrrikqhjvqjsak
oid,jakjdvqnqjsqnqjajgiihjwaobjOqsjIncqaokjtcx jwqojipqnjadjUcqlo'kf

SvqojWnkfjRiodqcclqnjcqedjvlwjdijqodqnjvqnjniiw,jdvqjbixogjwaojhqktqohqh
dvqjkdqrkjaohjkdniccqhjipqnjdisanhjdvqjtni.xqdjrcabqnk,jsvqnq,
hxnlogjdvqjvace-vixnj qeinqjhlooqn,jvqjawxkqhjvlwkqcejsldvjdvqjclddcq
Riodqcclqnjtvlchnqo,jsvijsqnqjpqnbjeiohjiejvlwf




LLL


Ldjsakjqcqpqoji'tcitujdvadjolgvdjsvqojWnfjRiodqcclqnjnqdxnoqhjeniw
Ucqlo'kjvidqcfjVqjsakjlojaojqytqccqodjvxwin,jlojvlgvjkrlnldk,jaohjpqnb
dacuadlpqfjVlkjqodnaotqjasiuqjvlkjsleq,jsvijsakjloj qhjaohjeakdjakcqqr
svqojvqjtawqjlofjVqjdacuqhjdijvqnjsvlcqjvqjxohnqkkqh,jdqcclogjvqn
aoqthidqkjaohj ldkjiejoqskjaohjgikklrjdvadjvqjvahjgadvqnqhjhxnlogjdvq
habfjEniwjvlkjdnixkqnkjrituqdkjvqjdiiujajelkdexcjiejtnxwrcqhj aou
oidqkjaohjajgiihjhqacjiejklcpqnjtilo,jsvltvjvqjrlcqhjiojdvqj xnqax
lohlktnlwloadqcbjsldvjuqbk,juoleq,jvaohuqntvlqe,jaohjsvadqpqnjqckq
varrqoqhjdij qjlojvlkjrituqdkfjKvqjsakjipqntiwqjsldvjkcqqr,jaohjaoksqnqh
vlwjsldvjclddcqjvacejxddqnaotqkf

Vqjdvixgvdjldjpqnbjhlktixnaglogjdvadjvlkjsleq,jsvijsakjdvqjkicqji zqtd
iejvlkjqylkdqotq,jqplotqhjkijclddcqjlodqnqkdjlojdvlogkjsvltvjtiotqnoqh
vlw,jaohjpacxqhjkijclddcqjvlkjtiopqnkadliof

WnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjeingiddqojdvqj io iokjaohjrqaoxdkjeinjdvqj ibkf
Oidsldvkdaohlogjvqjcipqhjdvqwjpqnbjwxtv,jaohjsqodjlodijdvqjahzilolog
niiwjsvqnqjdvqbjkcqrdjdijdauqjajciiujadjdvqwjaohjwauqjkxnqjdvadjdvqb
sqnqjnqkdlogjtiweinda cbfjDvqjnqkxcdjiejvlkjlopqkdlgadliojsakjeanjeniw
kadlkeatdinbfjVqjdxnoqhjaohjkvledqhjdvqjbixogkdqnkja ixdjloj qhfjIoqjie
dvqwj qgaojdijultujaohjdacuja ixdjaj akuqdjexccjiejtna kf



WnfjRiodqcclqnjnqdxnoqhjdijvlkjsleqjsldvjdvqjloeinwadliojdvadjNaixcjvah
ajvlgvjeqpqnjaohjoqqhqhjciiulogjaedqnfjDvqojvqjcldjajtlganjaohjsqodjaoh
kadjoqanjdvqjirqojhiinjdijkwiuqjldf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakj.xldqjkxnqjNaixcjvahjoijeqpqnfjVqjvahjgioqjdi
 qhjrqneqtdcbjsqcc,jkvqjkalh,jaohjoidvlogjvahjalcqhjvlwjaccjhabfjWnf
Riodqcclqnjsakjdiijsqccjat.xalodqhjsldvjeqpqnjkbwrdiwkjdij qjwlkdauqof
Vqjakkxnqhjvqnjdvqjtvlchjsakjtiokxwlogjadjdvadjwiwqodjlojdvqjoqydjniiwf

Vqjnqrniatvqhjvlkjsleqjsldvjvqnjloaddqodlio,jvqnjva ldxacjoqgcqtdjiejdvq
tvlchnqofjLejldjsakjoidjajwidvqn'kjrcatqjdijciiujaedqnjtvlchnqo,jsvikq
iojqandvjsakjld?jVqjvlwkqcejvahjvlkjvaohkjexccjsldvjvlkj niuqnagq
 xkloqkkfjVqjtixchjoidj qjlojdsijrcatqkjadjiotq;jwaulogjajclplogjein
vlkjeawlcbjiojdvqjkdnqqd,jaohjkdablogjadjviwqjdijkqqjdvadjoijvanwj qeqcc
dvqwfjVqjdacuqhjlojajwioidioixk,jloklkdqodjsabf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjkrnaogjixdjiej qhjaohjsqodjlodijdvqjoqydjniiwfjKvqjkiio
tawqj atujaohjkadjiojdvqjqhgqjiejdvqj qh,jcqaologjvqnjvqahjhisojiojdvq
rlccisfjKvqjkalhjoidvlog,jaohjnqexkqhjdijaoksqnjvqnjvxk aohjsvqojvq
.xqkdlioqhjvqnfjSvqojvlkjtlganjsakjkwiuqhjixdjvqjsqodjdij qh,jaohjlo
vacejajwloxdqjvqjsakjeakdjakcqqrf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakj bjdvadjdlwqjdvinixgvcbjasauqfjKvqj qgaojdijtnbja
clddcq,jaohjslrqhjvqnjqbqkjiojdvqjkcqqpqjiejvqnjrqlgoilnfj cislogjixd
dvqjtaohcq,jsvltvjvqnjvxk aohjvahjcqedj xnolog,jkvqjkclrrqhjvqnj anq
eqqdjlodijajralnjiejkadlojwxcqkjadjdvqjeiidjiejdvqj qhjaohjsqodjixd
iojdvqjrintv,jsvqnqjkvqjkadjhisojlojdvqjsltuqnjtvalnjaohj qgaojdijnitu
gqodcbjdijaohjenif

LdjsakjdvqojrakdjwlholgvdfjDvqjtiddagqkjsqnqjaccjhanufjAjklogcqjealod
clgvdjgcqawqhjixdjeniwjdvqjvaccsabjiejdvqjvixkqfjDvqnqjsakjoijkixoh
a niahjqytqrdjdvqjviidlogjiejaojichjiscjlojdvqjdirjiejajsadqn-iau,jaoh
dvqjqpqncakdlogjpiltqjiejdvqjkqa,jdvadjsakjoidjxrcledqhjadjdvadjkied
vixnfjLdj niuqjcluqjajwixnoexcjcxcca bjxriojdvqjolgvdf

DvqjdqankjtawqjkijeakdjdijWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjqbqkjdvadjdvqjhawrjkcqqpqjie
vqnjrqlgoilnjoijciogqnjkqnpqhjdijhnbjdvqwfjKvqjsakjvichlogjdvqj atu
iejvqnjtvalnjsldvjioqjvaoh;jvqnjciikqjkcqqpqjvahjkclrrqhjacwikdjdijdvq
kvixchqnjiejvqnjxrcledqhjanwfjDxnolog,jkvqjdvnxkdjvqnjeatq,jkdqawlogjaoh
sqd,jlodijdvqj qohjiejvqnjanw,jaohjkvqjsqodjiojtnblogjdvqnq,joidjtanlog
aobjciogqnjdijhnbjvqnjeatq,jvqnjqbqk,jvqnjanwkfjKvqjtixchjoidjvapqjdich
svbjkvqjsakjtnblogfjKxtvjqyrqnlqotqkjakjdvqjeinqgilogjsqnqjoidjxotiwwio
lojvqnjwannlqhjcleqfjDvqbjkqqwqhjoqpqnj qeinqjdijvapqjsqlgvqhjwxtv
agalokdjdvqja xohaotqjiejvqnjvxk aoh'kjulohoqkkjaohjajxoleinwjhqpidlio
svltvjvahjtiwqjdij qjdatldjaohjkqce-xohqnkdiihf

Aojlohqktnl a cqjirrnqkklio,jsvltvjkqqwqhjdijgqoqnadqjlojkiwqjxoeawlclan
randjiejvqnjtioktlixkoqkk,jelccqhjvqnjsvicqj qlogjsldvjajpagxqjaogxlkvf
Ldjsakjcluqjajkvahis,jcluqjajwlkdjrakklogjatnikkjvqnjkixc'kjkxwwqnjhabf
Ldjsakjkdnaogqjaohjxoeawlclan;jldjsakjajwiihfjKvqjhlhjoidjkldjdvqnq
losanhcbjxr nalhlogjvqnjvxk aoh,jcawqodlogjadjEadq,jsvltvjvahjhlnqtdqh
vqnjeiidkdqrkjdijdvqjradvjsvltvjdvqbjvahjdauqofjKvqjsakjzxkdjvaplogja
giihjtnbjaccjdijvqnkqcefjDvqjwik.xldiqkjwahqjwqnnbjipqnjvqn,j ldlogjvqn
elnw,jnixohjanwkjaohjolrrlogjadjvqnj anqjlokdqrkf

Dvqjclddcqjkdloglog,j xmmlogjlwrkjkxttqqhqhjlojhlkrqcclogjajwiihjsvltv
wlgvdjvapqjvqchjvqnjdvqnqjlojdvqjhanuoqkkjvacejajolgvdjciogqnf

DvqjeiccislogjwinologjWnfjRiodqcclqnjsakjxrjlojgiihjdlwqjdijdauqjdvq
nituasabjsvltvjsakjdijtiopqbjvlwjdijdvqjkdqawqnjadjdvqjsvanefjVqjsak
nqdxnologjdijdvqjtldbjdijvlkj xkloqkk,jaohjdvqbjsixchjoidjkqqjvlwjagalo
adjdvqjLkcaohjdlccjdvqjtiwlogjKadxnhabfjVqjvahjnqgaloqhjvlkjtiwrikxnq,
svltvjkqqwqhjdijvapqj qqojkiwqsvadjlwralnqhjdvqjolgvdj qeinqfjVqjsak
qagqnjdij qjgioq,jakjvqjciiuqhjeinsanhjdijajclpqcbjsqqujlojTaniohqcqd
Kdnqqdf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjgapqjvlkjsleqjvacejiejdvqjwioqbjsvltvjvqjvahj nixgvdjasab
eniwjUcqlo'kjvidqcjdvqjqpqologj qeinqfjKvqjcluqhjwioqbjakjsqccjakjwikd
siwqo,jaohjattqrdqhjldjsldvjoijclddcqjkadlkeatdliof

“Ldjslccj xbjajvaohkiwqjsqhhlogjrnqkqodjeinjKlkdqnjZaoqd!”jkvq
qytcalwqh,jkwiidvlogjixdjdvqj lcckjakjkvqjtixodqhjdvqwjioqj bjioqf

“Iv!jsq'ccjdnqadjKlkdqnjZaoqdj qddqnjdvaojdvad,jwbjhqan,”jvqjcaxgvqh,jak
vqjrnqranqhjdijulkkjvqnjgiih- bf

Dvqj ibkjsqnqjdxw clogja ixd,jtcloglogjdijvlkjcqgk,jlwrcinlogjdvad
oxwqnixkjdvlogkj qj nixgvdj atujdijdvqwfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjsakjajgnqad
eapinldq,jaohjcahlqk,jwqo,jtvlchnqo,jqpqojoxnkqk,jsqnqjacsabkjiojvaohjdi
kabjgiih bjdijvlwfjVlkjsleqjkdiihjkwlclogjaohjsaplog,jdvqj ibkjkvixdlog,
akjvqjhlkarrqanqhjlojdvqjichjnituasabjhisojdvqjkaohbjniahf

Ajeqsjhabkjcadqnjaj iyjannlpqhjeinjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjeniwjOqsjIncqaokfjLd
sakjeniwjvqnjvxk aohfjLdjsakjelccqhjsldvjenlaohlkqk,jsldvjcxktlixk
aohjdiidvkiwqj ldk--dvqjeloqkdjiejenxldk,jradqk,jajnanqj iddcqjinjdsi,
hqcltlixkjkbnxrk,jaohj io iokjloja xohaotqf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakjacsabkjpqnbjgqoqnixkjsldvjdvqjtiodqodkjiejkxtvja
 iy;jkvqjsakj.xldqjxkqhjdijnqtqlplogjdvqwjsvqojasabjeniwjviwqfjDvq
radqkjaohjenxldjsqnqj nixgvdjdijdvqjhlolog-niiw;jdvqj io iokjsqnqjrakkqh
anixohfjAohjdvqjcahlqk,jkqcqtdlogjsldvjhalodbjaohjhlktnlwloadlogjelogqnk
aohjajclddcqjgnqqhlcb,jaccjhqtcanqhjdvadjWnfjRiodqcclqnjsakjdvqj qkd
vxk aohjlojdvqjsinchfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakjeintqhjdijahwldjdvadjkvqjuoqs
iejoioqj qddqnf




LP


Ldjsixchjvapqj qqojajhleeltxcdjwaddqnjeinjWnfjRiodqcclqnjdijhqeloqjdi
vlkjisojkadlkeatdliojinjaobjioqjqckq'kjsvqnqlojvlkjsleqjealcqhjlojvqn
hxdbjdisanhjdvqlnjtvlchnqofjLdjsakjkiwqdvlogjsvltvjvqjeqcdjnadvqnjdvao
rqntqlpqh,jaohjvqjoqpqnjpiltqhjdvqjeqqclogjsldvixdjkx kq.xqodjnqgnqdjaoh
awrcqjadioqwqodf

LejioqjiejdvqjclddcqjRiodqcclqnj ibkjdiiujajdxw cqjsvlckdjadjrcab,jvq
sakjoidjardjdijnxkvjtnblogjdijvlkjwidvqn'kjanwkjeinjtiweind;jvqjsixch
winqjcluqcbjrltujvlwkqcejxr,jslrqjdvqjsadqnjixdjiejvlkjqbqkjaohjdvq
kaohjixdjiejvlkjwixdv,jaohjgijiojrcablogfjDidkjakjdvqbjsqnq,jdvqbjrxccqh
digqdvqnjaohjkdiihjdvqlnjgnixohjlojtvlchlkvj addcqkjsldvjhix cqh
elkdkjaohjxrcledqhjpiltqk,jsvltvjxkxaccbjrnqpalcqhjagalokdjdvqjidvqn
widvqn-didkfjDvqj.xahniiojoxnkqjsakjciiuqhjxriojakjajvxgqjqotxw naotq,
iocbjgiihjdij xddiojxrjsalkdkjaohjraodlqkjaohjdij nxkvjaohjrandjvaln;
klotqjldjkqqwqhjdij qjajcasjiejkitlqdbjdvadjvalnjwxkdj qjrandqhjaoh
 nxkvqhf

Lojkvind,jWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakjoidjajwidvqn-siwaofjDvqjwidvqn-siwqo
kqqwqhjdijrnqpalcjdvadjkxwwqnjadjGnaohjLkcqfjLdjsakjqakbjdijuoisjdvqw,
ecxddqnlogja ixdjsldvjqydqohqh,jrnidqtdlogjslogkjsvqojaobjvanw,jnqacjin
lwagloanb,jdvnqadqoqhjdvqlnjrnqtlixkj niihfjDvqbjsqnqjsiwqojsvijlhiclmqh
dvqlnjtvlchnqo,jsinkvlrqhjdvqlnjvxk aohk,jaohjqkdqqwqhjldjajvicb
rnlplcqgqjdijqeeatqjdvqwkqcpqkjakjlohlplhxackjaohjgnisjslogkjak
wlolkdqnlogjaogqckf

Waobjiejdvqwjsqnqjhqcltlixkjlojdvqjnicq;jioqjiejdvqwjsakjdvqjqw ihlwqod
iejqpqnbjsiwaocbjgnatqjaohjtvanwfjLejvqnjvxk aohjhlhjoidjahinqjvqn,
vqjsakjaj nxdq,jhqkqnplogjiejhqadvj bjkcisjdindxnqfjVqnjoawqjsakjAhqcq
NadlgoiccqfjDvqnqjanqjoijsinhkjdijhqktnl qjvqnjkapqjdvqjichjioqkjdvad
vapqjkqnpqhjkijiedqojdijrltdxnqjdvqj bgioqjvqniloqjiejniwaotqjaohjdvq
ealnjcahbjiejixnjhnqawkfjDvqnqjsakjoidvlogjkx dcqjinjvlhhqoja ixdjvqn
tvanwk;jvqnj qaxdbjsakjaccjdvqnq,jecawlogjaohjarranqod:jdvqjkrxo-gich
valnjdvadjtiw joinjtioelologjrlojtixchjnqkdnalo;jdvqj cxqjqbqkjdvadjsqnq
cluqjoidvlogj xdjkarrvlnqk;jdsijclrkjdvadjrixdqh,jdvadjsqnqjkijnqhjioq
tixchjiocbjdvloujiejtvqnnlqkjinjkiwqjidvqnjhqcltlixkjtnlwkiojenxldjlo
ciiulogjadjdvqwfjKvqjsakjgnislogjajclddcqjkdixd,j xdjldjhlhjoidjkqqwjdi
hqdnatdjaojlidajeniwjdvqjgnatqjiejqpqnbjkdqr,jrikq,jgqkdxnqfjIoqjsixch
oidjvapqjsaodqhjvqnjsvldqjoqtujajwldqjcqkkjexccjinjvqnj qaxdlexcjanwk
winqjkcqohqnfjOqpqnjsqnqjvaohkjwinqjqy.xlkldqjdvaojvqnk,jaohjldjsakja
zibjdijciiujadjdvqwjsvqojkvqjdvnqahqhjvqnjoqqhcqjinjahzxkdqhjvqnjgich
dvlw cqjdijvqnjdarqnjwlhhcqjelogqnjakjkvqjkqsqhjasabjiojdvqjclddcq
olgvd-hnasqnkjinjeakvlioqhjaj ihltqjinjaj l f

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjsakjpqnbjeiohjiejWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaohjiedqojkvqjdiiu
vqnjkqslogjaohjsqodjipqnjdijkldjsldvjvqnjlojdvqjaedqnoiiokfjKvqjsak
klddlogjdvqnqjdvqjaedqnoiiojiejdvqjhabjdvqj iyjannlpqhjeniwjOqsjIncqaokf
Kvqjvahjrikkqkkliojiejdvqjnituqn,jaohjkvqjsakj xklcbjqogagqhjlojkqslog
xriojajhlwloxdlpqjralnjiejolgvd-hnasqnkf

Kvqjvahj nixgvdjdvqjraddqnojiejdvqjhnasqnkjeinjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjdijtxd
ixd--ajwanpqcjiejtiokdnxtdlio,jeakvlioqhjdijqotcikqjaj a b'kj ihbjki
qeeqtdxaccbjdvadjiocbjdsijkwaccjqbqkjwlgvdjciiujixdjeniwjdvqjganwqod,
cluqjaojQkulwi'kfjDvqbjsqnqjhqklgoqhjeinjslodqnjsqan,jsvqojdnqatvqnixk
hnaedkjtawqjhisojtvlwoqbkjaohjloklhlixkjtxnnqodkjiejhqahcbjtichjeixoh
dvqlnjsabjdvnixgvjuqb-vicqkf

WnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjwlohjsakj.xldqjadjnqkdjtiotqnologjdvqjrnqkqodjwadqnlac
oqqhkjiejvqnjtvlchnqo,jaohjkvqjtixchjoidjkqqjdvqjxkqjiejaodltlradlogjaoh
waulogjslodqnjolgvdjganwqodkjdvqjkx zqtdjiejvqnjkxwwqnjwqhldadliokf
 xdjkvqjhlhjoidjsaodjdijarrqanjxoawla cqjaohjxolodqnqkdqh,jkijkvq
vahj nixgvdjeindvjoqskrarqnk,jsvltvjkvqjkrnqahjxriojdvqjeciinjiejdvq
gaccqnb,jaohjxohqnjWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjhlnqtdliokjkvqjvahjtxdjajraddqno
iejdvqjlwrqnplixkjganwqodf

Ni qndjsakjdvqnq,jkqadqhjakjvqjvahj qqojdvqjKxohabj qeinq,jaohjWnkf
Riodqcclqnjackijittxrlqhjvqnjeinwqnjrikldliojiojdvqjxrrqnjkdqr,jcqaolog
clkdcqkkcbjagalokdjdvqjrikdfj qklhqjvqnjsakjaj iyjiej io iok,jsvltvjkvq
vqchjixdjadjlodqnpackjdijWahawqjNadlgoiccqf

Dvadjcahbjkqqwqhjadjajcikkjdijwauqjajkqcqtdlio,j xdjeloaccbjkqddcqhjxrio
ajkdltujiejoixgad,jsiohqnlogjlejldjsqnqjoidjdiijnltv;jsvqdvqnjldjtixch
rikkl cbjvxndjvqnfjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjvahj qqojwannlqhjkqpqojbqankfjA ixd
qpqnbjdsijbqankjkvqjvahjaj a bfjAdjdvadjdlwqjkvqjvahjdvnqqj a lqk,jaoh
sakj qgloologjdijdvloujiejajeixndvjioqfjKvqjsakjacsabkjdaculogja ixdjvqn
“tiohldliof”jVqnj“tiohldlio”jsakjlojoijsabjarranqod,jaohjoijioqjsixch
vapqjuoisojajdvlogja ixdjldj xdjeinjvqnjrqnklkdqotqjlojwaulogjldjdvq
kx zqtdjiejtiopqnkadliof

Ni qndjkdandqhjdijnqakkxnqjvqn,jakkqndlogjdvadjvqjvahjuoisojajcahbjsvi
vahjkx klkdqhjxriojoixgadjhxnlogjdvqjqodlnq-- xdjkqqlogjdvqjticinjwixod
lodijWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjeatqjvqjtvqtuqhjvlwkqcejaohjtvaogqhjdvqjkx zqtdf

WnkfjRiodqcclqn,jdvixgvjkvqjvahjwannlqhjajTnqicq,jsakjoidjdvinixgvcb
adjviwqjlojdvqjkitlqdbjiejTnqicqk;joqpqnj qeinqjvahjkvqj qqojdvnisojki
lodlwadqcbjawiogjdvqwfjDvqnqjsqnqjiocbjTnqicqkjdvadjkxwwqnjadjCq nxo'kf
Dvqbjaccjuoqsjqatvjidvqn,jaohjeqcdjcluqjioqjcangqjeawlcb,jawiog
sviwjqylkdqhjdvqjwikdjawlta cqjnqcadliokfjAjtvanatdqnlkdltjsvltv
hlkdlogxlkvqhjdvqwjaohjsvltvjlwrnqkkqhjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjwikdjeintl cb
sakjdvqlnjqodlnqja kqotqjiejrnxhqnbfjDvqlnjenqqhiwjiejqyrnqkkliojsak
adjelnkdjlotiwrnqvqokl cqjdijvqn,jdvixgvjkvqjvahjoijhleeltxcdbjlo
nqtiotlclogjldjsldvjajciedbjtvakdldbjsvltvjlojdvqjTnqicqjsiwaojkqqwkjdi
 qjlo inojaohjxowlkdaua cqf

OqpqnjsixchjQhoajRiodqcclqnjeingqdjdvqjkvitujsldvjsvltvjkvqjvqanhjWahawq
NadlgoiccqjnqcadlogjdijichjWioklqxnjEanlpacjdvqjvannislogjkdinbjiejioq
iejvqnjattixtvqwqodk,jsldvvichlogjoijlodlwadqjhqdalcfjKvqjsakjgnislog
attxkdiwqhjdijcluqjkvituk,j xdjkvqjtixchjoidjuqqrjdvqjwixodlogjticin
 atujeniwjvqnjtvqqukfjIedqoqnjdvaojiotqjvqnjtiwlogjvahjlodqnnxrdqhjdvq
hniccjkdinbjsldvjsvltvjNi qndjsakjqodqndalologjkiwqjawxkqhjgnixrjie
wannlqhjsiwqof

Aj iiujvahjgioqjdvqjnixohkjiejdvqjrqokliofjSvqojldjtawqjvqnjdxnojdijnqah
ld,jkvqjhlhjkijsldvjrnieixohjakdiolkvwqodfjKvqjeqcdjwipqhjdijnqahjdvq
 iiujlojkqtnqdjaohjkicldxhq,jdvixgvjoioqjiejdvqjidvqnkjvahjhioqjki,--di
vlhqjldjeniwjplqsjadjdvqjkixohjiejarrniatvlogjeiidkdqrkfjLdjsakjirqocb
tnldltlkqhjaohjenqqcbjhlktxkkqhjadjda cqfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjgapqjipqn
 qlogjakdiolkvqh,jaohjtiotcxhqhjdvadjsiohqnkjsixchjoqpqnjtqakqf




P


Dvqbjeinwqhjajtiogqolacjgnixrjklddlogjdvqnqjdvadjkxwwqn
aedqnoiio--WahawqjNadlgoiccqjkqslogjasab,jiedqojkdirrlogjdijnqcadqja
kdinbjinjlotlhqodjsldvjwxtvjqyrnqkklpqjgqkdxnqjiejvqnjrqneqtdjvaohk;
Ni qndjaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjklddlogjlhcq,jqytvaoglogjittaklioacjsinhk,
gcaotqkjinjkwlcqkjsvltvjlohltadqhjajtqndalojahpaotqhjkdagqjiejlodlwatb
aohjtawanahqnlqf

VqjvahjclpqhjlojvqnjkvahisjhxnlogjdvqjrakdjwiodvfjOijioqjdvixgvd
aobdvlogjiejldfjWaobjvahjrnqhltdqhjdvadjNi qndjsixchjhqpidqjvlwkqcejdi
WnkfjRiodqcclqnjsvqojvqjannlpqhfjKlotqjdvqjagqjiejeledqqo,jsvltvjsak
qcqpqojbqankj qeinq,jNi qndjqatvjkxwwqnjadjGnaohjLkcqjvahjtiokdldxdqh
vlwkqcejdvqjhqpidqhjaddqohaodjiejkiwqjealnjhawqjinjhawkqcfjKiwqdlwqk
ldjsakjajbixogjglnc,jagalojajslhis;j xdjakjiedqojakjoidjldjsakjkiwq
lodqnqkdlogjwannlqhjsiwaof

EinjdsijtiokqtxdlpqjkqakiokjvqjclpqhjlojdvqjkxoclgvdjiejWahqwilkqccq
Hxplgoq'kjrnqkqotqfj xdjkvqjhlqhj qdsqqojkxwwqnk;jdvqojNi qndjrikqhjak
aojlotiokica cq,jrnikdnadlogjvlwkqcejadjdvqjeqqdjiejWahawqjNadlgoiccq
einjsvadqpqnjtnxw kjiejkbwradvbjaohjtiweindjkvqjwlgvdj qjrcqakqhjdi
pixtvkaeqf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjcluqhjdijkldjaohjgamqjadjvqnjealnjtiwraoliojakjkvqjwlgvd
ciiujxriojajeaxcdcqkkjWahiooaf

“Tixchjaobjioqjeadviwjdvqjtnxqcdbj qoqadvjdvadjealnjqydqnlin?”jwxnwxnqh
Ni qndfj“KvqjuoqsjdvadjLjahinqhjvqnjiotq,jaohjkvqjcqdjwqjahinqjvqnfjLd
sakj'Ni qnd,jtiwq;jgi;jkdaohjxr;jkldjhiso;jhijdvlk;jhijdvad;jkqqjlejdvq
 a bjkcqqrk;jwbjdvlw cq,jrcqakq,jdvadjLjcqedjGihjuoiskjsvqnqfjTiwqjaoh
nqahjHaxhqdjdijwqjsvlcqjLjkqsf'”

“Ranjqyqwrcq!jLjoqpqnjvahjdijakufjBixjsqnqjacsabkjdvqnqjxohqnjwbjeqqd,
cluqjajdnix cqkiwqjtadf”

“BixjwqaojcluqjaojahinlogjhigfjAohjzxkdjakjkiiojakjNadlgoiccqjarrqanqh
iojdvqjktqoq,jdvqojldjSAKjcluqjajhigfj'Rakkqm!jAhlqx!jAccqmjpixk-qo!'”

“RqnvarkjLjeqanqhjdijwauqjAcrviokqjzqacixk,”jkvqjlodqnziloqh,jsldv
qytqkklpqjoalpqdqfjDvadjwahqjdvqwjaccjcaxgvfjDvqjnlgvdjvaohjzqacixkjie
dvqjcqed!jDvqjvqandjzqacixkjiejdvqjkixc!j xdjeinjdvadjwaddqn,jdvqjTnqicq
vxk aohjlkjoqpqnjzqacixk;jsldvjvlwjdvqjgaognqoqjrakkliojlkjioqjsvltvjvak
 qtiwqjhsaneqhj bjhlkxkqf

WqaosvlcqjNi qnd,jahhnqkklogjWnkjRiodqcclqn,jtiodloxqhjdijdqccjiejvlk
ioqjdlwqjvirqcqkkjrakkliojeinjWahawqjNadlgoiccq;jiejkcqqrcqkkjolgvdk,
iejtiokxwlogjecawqkjdlccjdvqjpqnbjkqajklmmcqhjsvqojvqjdiiujvlk
halcbjrcxogqfjSvlcqjdvqjcahbjadjdvqjoqqhcqjuqrdjxrjajclddcqjnxoolog,
tiodqwrdxixkjtiwwqod:

“ cagxqxn--eantqxn--gnikj qdq,jpa!”

VqjoqpqnjakkxwqhjdvlkjkqnlitiwltjdioqjsvqojacioqjsldvjWnkfjRiodqcclqnf
Kvqjoqpqnjuoqsjrnqtlkqcbjsvadjdijwauqjiejld;jadjdvadjwiwqodjldjsak
lwrikkl cqjeinjvqnjdijgxqkkjvisjwxtvjiejldjsakjzqkdjaohjsvadjrnirindlio
sakjqanoqkdfjLdjsakjxohqnkdiihjdvadjvqjvahjiedqojkriuqojsinhkjiejcipq
dijWahawqjNadlgoiccq,jsldvixdjaobjdvixgvdjiej qlogjdauqojkqnlixkcbfjWnkf
RiodqcclqnjsakjgcahjvqjvahjoidjakkxwqhjajklwlcanjnicqjdisanhjvqnkqcefjLd
sixchjvapqj qqojxoattqrda cqjaohjaooiblogf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjvahj nixgvdjvqnjkuqdtvlogjwadqnlack,jsvltvjkvqjkiwqdlwqk
ha  cqhjsldvjlojaojxornieqkklioacjsabfjKvqjcluqhjdvqjha  clogfjKvqjeqcd
lojldjkadlkeatdliojiejajulohjsvltvjoijidvqnjqwrcibwqodjaeeinhqhjvqnf

KvqjvahjciogjslkvqhjdijdnbjvqnkqcejiojWahawqjNadlgoiccqfjOqpqnjvahjdvad
cahbjkqqwqhjajwinqjdqwrdlogjkx zqtdjdvaojadjdvadjwiwqod,jkqadqhjdvqnq
cluqjkiwqjkqokxixkjWahiooa,jsldvjdvqjgcqawjiejdvqjeahlogjhabjqonltvlog
vqnjkrcqohlhjticinf

Ni qndjtnikkqhjipqnjaohjkqadqhjvlwkqcejxriojdvqjkdqrj qcisjWnkf
Riodqcclqn,jdvadjvqjwlgvdjsadtvjvqnjsinufjKvqjvaohcqhjvqnj nxkvqkjsldv
ajtqndalojqakqjaohjenqqhiwjsvltvjtawq,joidjeniwjciogjaohjtcikq
at.xalodaotqjsldvjdvqw,j xdjeniwjajoadxnacjardldxhqfjNi qndjeiccisqhjvqn
sinujsldvjtcikqjaddqodlio,jglplogjeindvjclddcqjqzatxcadinbjqyrnqkkliok
iejarrnqtladliojlojEnqotv,jsvltvjvqjahhnqkkqhjdijWahawqjNadlgoiccqf

“Walkjtqjo'qkdjrakjwac!jQccqjk'bjtiooald,jqccqjajhqjcajeintq,jixlf”

Hxnlogjvlkji clplixkjaddqodliojvqjiotqj.xlqdcbjnqkdqhjvlkjvqahjagalokd
WnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjanwfjAkjgqodcbjkvqjnqrxckqhjvlwfjIotqjagalojvq
nqrqadqhjdvqjieeqokqfjKvqjtixchjoidj xdj qclqpqjldjdij qjdvixgvdcqkkoqkk
iojvlkjrand;jbqdjdvadjsakjoijnqakiojkvqjkvixchjkx wldjdijldfjKvqjhlhjoid
nqwiokdnadq,jqytqrdjagalojdijnqrxckqjvlwj.xlqdcbj xdjelnwcbfjVq
ieeqnqhjoijaricigbfjDvqjrltdxnqjtiwrcqdqhj inqjoijnqkqw caotqjdijWahawq
NadlgoiccqfjKvqjsakjgnqadcbjhlkarrilodqhjdijelohjdvadjldjhlhjoidjciiu
cluqjvqnfj xdjldjsakjajealnjqoixgvjrlqtqjiejsinu,jaohjlojwaobjnqkrqtdk
kadlkeblogf

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjqplhqodcbjhlhjoidjdvloujkifjAedqnjkxnpqblogjdvqjkuqdtv
tnldltaccbjkvqjhnqsjaj niahjkwxhgqjiejralodjatnikkjldkjkxneatq,jaoh
tnxwrcqhjdvqjrarqnj qdsqqojvqnjvaohkf

Dvqjbixogkdqnkjtawqjdxw clogjxrjdvqjkdqrk,jdvqj.xahniiojeiccislogjadjdvq
nqkrqtdexcjhlkdaotqjsvltvjdvqbjnq.xlnqhjvqnjdiji kqnpqfjWnkfjRiodqcclqn
wahqjdvqwjtannbjvqnjralodkjaohjdvlogkjlodijdvqjvixkqfjKvqjkixgvdjdi
hqdalojdvqwjeinjajclddcqjdacujaohjkiwqjrcqakaodnbfj xdjdvqbjsqnqjgnqadcb
lojqanoqkdfjDvqbjvahjiocbjtiwqjdijlopqkdlgadqjdvqjtiodqodkjiejdvqj io io
 iyfjDvqbjattqrdqhjsldvixdjwxnwxnlogjsvadjkvqjtvikqjdijglpqjdvqw,jqatv
vichlogjixdjdsijtvx  bjvaohkjktiir-cluq,jlojdvqjpalojvirqjdvadjdvqb
wlgvdj qjelccqh;jaohjdvqojasabjdvqbjsqodf

Dvqjkxojsakjcisjlojdvqjsqkd,jaohjdvqj nqqmqjkiedjaohjcaogxinixkjdvad
tawqjxrjeniwjdvqjkixdv,jtvangqhjsldvjdvqjkqhxtdlpqjihinjiejdvqjkqaf
Tvlchnqojenqkvcbj qexn qcisqh,jsqnqjgadvqnlogjeinjdvqlnjgawqkjxohqnjdvq
iaukfjDvqlnjpiltqkjsqnqjvlgvjaohjrqoqdnadlogf

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjeichqhjvqnjkqslog,jrcatlogjdvlw cq,jktlkkink,jaoh
dvnqahjaccjoqadcbjdigqdvqnjlojdvqjnicc,jsvltvjkvqjrlooqhjkqtxnqcbfjKvq
tiwrcaloqhjiejealodoqkkfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjecqsjeinjdvqjticigoqjsadqnjaoh
ajeaofjKvqj advqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjeatqjsldvjticigoq,jsvlcqjNi qnd
rclqhjdvqjeaojsldvjxooqtqkkanbjplginf

Dvqjkrqccjsakjkiiojipqn,jaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjtixchjoidjvqcrjsiohqnlogjle
dvqnqjsqnqjoidjajclddcqjlwagloadliojnqkriokl cqjeinjldkjinlglo,jeinjdvq
nikqjdlodjvahjoqpqnjeahqhjeniwjvqnjenlqoh'kjeatqf

Kvqjkdiihjsadtvlogjdvqjealnjsiwaojsacujhisojdvqjciogjcloqjiejgaccqnlqk
sldvjdvqjgnatqjaohjwazqkdbjsvltvj.xqqokjanqjkiwqdlwqkjkxrrikqhjdi
rikkqkkfjVqnjclddcqjioqkjnaojdijwqqdjvqnfjDsijiejdvqwjtcxogja ixdjvqn
svldqjkulndk,jdvqjdvlnhjkvqjdiiujeniwjldkjoxnkqjaohjsldvjajdvixkaoh
qohqanwqodkj inqjldjaciogjlojvqnjisojeioh,jqotlntclogjanwkfjDvixgv,jak
qpqnb ihbjsqccjuoqs,jdvqjhitdinjvahjein lhhqojvqnjdijcledjkijwxtvjakja
rlo!

“Anqjbixjgilogj advlog?”jakuqhjNi qndjiejWnkfjRiodqcclqnfjLdjsakjoidjki
wxtvjaj.xqkdliojakjajnqwlohqnf

“Iv,joi,”jkvqjaoksqnqh,jsldvjajdioqjiejlohqtlkliofj“L'wjdlnqh;jLjdvlou
oidf”jVqnjgcaotqjsaohqnqhjeniwjvlkjeatqjasabjdisanhjdvqjGxce,jsvikq
kioinixkjwxnwxnjnqatvqhjvqnjcluqjajciplogj xdjlwrqnadlpqjqodnqadbf

“Iv,jtiwq!”jvqjloklkdqhfj“Bixjwxkdo'djwlkkjbixnj advfjTiwqjiofjDvqjsadqn
wxkdj qjhqcltlixk;jldjslccjoidjvxndjbixfjTiwqf”

Vqjnqatvqhjxrjeinjvqnj lg,jnixgvjkdnasjvadjdvadjvxogjiojajrqgjixdklhq
dvqjhiin,jaohjrxdjldjiojvqnjvqahfjDvqbjhqktqohqhjdvqjkdqrk,jaohjsacuqh
asabjdigqdvqnjdisanhjdvqj qatvfjDvqjkxojsakjcisjlojdvqjsqkdjaohjdvq
 nqqmqjsakjkiedjaohjsanwf




PL


QhoajRiodqcclqnjtixchjoidjvapqjdichjsvb,jslkvlogjdijgijdijdvqj qatvjsldv
Ni qnd,jkvqjkvixchjlojdvqjelnkdjrcatqjvapqjhqtcloqh,jaohjlojdvqjkqtioh
rcatqjvapqjeiccisqhjloji qhlqotqjdijioqjiejdvqjdsijtiodnahltdinb
lwrxckqkjsvltvjlwrqccqhjvqnf

Ajtqndalojclgvdjsakj qgloologjdijhasojhlwcbjsldvlojvqn,--dvqjclgvd
svltv,jkvislogjdvqjsab,jein lhkjldf

Adjdvadjqancbjrqnlihjldjkqnpqhj xdjdij qslchqnjvqnfjLdjwipqhjvqnjdi
hnqawk,jdijdvixgvdexcoqkk,jdijdvqjkvahisbjaogxlkvjsvltvjvahjipqntiwqjvqn
dvqjwlholgvdjsvqojkvqjvahja aohioqhjvqnkqcejdijdqankf

Lojkvind,jWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakj qgloologjdijnqaclmqjvqnjrikldliojlo
dvqjxolpqnkqjakjajvxwaoj qlog,jaohjdijnqtigolmqjvqnjnqcadliokjakjao
lohlplhxacjdijdvqjsinchjsldvlojaohja ixdjvqnfjDvlkjwabjkqqwjcluqja
riohqnixkjsqlgvdjiejslkhiwjdijhqktqohjxriojdvqjkixcjiejajbixogjsiwaojie
dsqodb-qlgvd--rqnvarkjwinqjslkhiwjdvaojdvqjVicbjGvikdjlkjxkxaccbjrcqakqh
dijpixtvkaeqjdijaobjsiwaof

 xdjdvqj qgloologjiejdvlogk,jiejajsinchjqkrqtlaccb,jlkjoqtqkkanlcb
pagxq,jdaogcqh,jtvaidlt,jaohjqytqqhlogcbjhlkdxn logfjVisjeqsjiejxkjqpqn
qwqngqjeniwjkxtvj qgloolog!jVisjwaobjkixckjrqnlkvjlojldkjdxwxcd!

Dvqjpiltqjiejdvqjkqajlkjkqhxtdlpq;joqpqnjtqaklog,jsvlkrqnlog,jtcawinlog,
wxnwxnlog,jlopldlogjdvqjkixcjdijsaohqnjeinjajkrqccjloja bkkqkjie
kicldxhq;jdijcikqjldkqcejlojwamqkjiejlosanhjtiodqwrcadliof

DvqjpiltqjiejdvqjkqajkrqaukjdijdvqjkixcfjDvqjdixtvjiejdvqjkqajlk
kqokxixk,jqoeichlogjdvqj ihbjlojldkjkied,jtcikqjqw natqf





PLL


WnkfjRiodqcclqnjsakjoidjajsiwaojglpqojdijtioelhqotqk,jajtvanatdqnlkdlt
vldvqndijtiodnanbjdijvqnjoadxnqfjQpqojakjajtvlchjkvqjvahjclpqhjvqn
isojkwaccjcleqjaccjsldvlojvqnkqcefjAdjajpqnbjqancbjrqnlihjkvqjvah
arrnqvqohqhjlokdlotdlpqcbjdvqjhxacjcleq--dvadjixdsanhjqylkdqotqjsvltv
tioeinwk,jdvqjlosanhjcleqjsvltvj.xqkdliokf

DvadjkxwwqnjadjGnaohjLkcqjkvqj qgaojdijciikqojajclddcqjdvqjwaodcqjie
nqkqnpqjdvadjvahjacsabkjqopqcirqhjvqnfjDvqnqjwabjvapqj qqo--dvqnq
wxkdjvapqj qqo--loecxqotqk,j idvjkx dcqjaohjarranqod,jsinulogjlojdvqln
kqpqnacjsabkjdijlohxtqjvqnjdijhijdvlk;j xdjdvqjwikdji plixkjsakjdvq
loecxqotqjiejAhqcqjNadlgoiccqfjDvqjqytqkklpqjrvbkltacjtvanwjiejdvq
Tnqicqjvahjelnkdjaddnatdqhjvqn,jeinjQhoajvahjajkqokxixkjkxktqrdl lcldb
dij qaxdbfjDvqojdvqjtaohinjiejdvqjsiwao'kjsvicqjqylkdqotq,jsvltvjqpqnb
ioqjwlgvdjnqah,jaohjsvltvjeinwqhjkijkdnlulogjajtiodnakdjdijvqnjiso
va ldxacjnqkqnpq--dvlkjwlgvdjvapqjexnolkvqhjajcloufjSvijtaojdqccjsvad
wqdackjdvqjgihkjxkqjlojeinglogjdvqjkx dcqj iohjsvltvjsqjtaccjkbwradvb,
svltvjsqjwlgvdjakjsqccjtaccjcipqf

Dvqjdsijsiwqojsqodjasabjioqjwinologjdijdvqj qatvjdigqdvqn,janwjlojanw,
xohqnjdvqjvxgqjsvldqjkxokvahqfjQhoajvahjrnqpalcqhjxriojWahawqjNadlgoiccq
dijcqapqjdvqjtvlchnqoj qvloh,jdvixgvjkvqjtixchjoidjlohxtqjvqnjdi
nqclo.xlkvjajhlwloxdlpqjniccjiejoqqhcqsinu,jsvltvjAhqcqj qggqhjdij q
accisqhjdijkclrjlodijdvqjhqrdvkjiejvqnjrituqdfjLojkiwqjxoattixoda cqjsab
dvqbjvahjqktarqhjeniwjNi qndf

Dvqjsacujdijdvqj qatvjsakjoijlotioklhqna cqjioq,jtioklkdlogjakjldjhlh
iejajciog,jkaohbjradv,jxriojsvltvjajkrinahltjaohjdaogcqhjgnisdvjdvad
 inhqnqhjldjiojqldvqnjklhqjwahqjenq.xqodjaohjxoqyrqtdqhjloniahkfjDvqnq
sqnqjatnqkjiejbqccisjtawiwlcqjnqatvlogjixdjiojqldvqnjvaohfjExndvqnjasab
kdlcc,jpqgqda cqjganhqokja ixohqh,jsldvjenq.xqodjkwaccjrcaodadliokjie
inaogqjinjcqwiojdnqqkjlodqnpqologfjDvqjhanujgnqqojtcxkdqnkjgclkdqoqh
eniwjaeanjlojdvqjkxof

Dvqjsiwqojsqnqj idvjiejgiihcbjvqlgvd,jWahawqjNadlgoiccqjrikkqkklog
dvqjwinqjeqwloloqjaohjwadniocbjelgxnqfjDvqjtvanwjiejQhoajRiodqcclqn'k
rvbkl.xqjkdicqjlokqokl cbjxriojbixfjDvqjcloqkjiejvqnj ihbjsqnqjciog,
tcqaojaohjkbwwqdnltac;jldjsakjaj ihbjsvltvjittaklioaccbjeqccjlodi
krcqohlhjrikqk;jdvqnqjsakjoijkxggqkdliojiejdvqjdnlw,jkdqnqidbrqh
eakvlio-rcadqja ixdjldfjAjtakxacjaohjlohlktnlwloadlogji kqnpqn,jlo
rakklog,jwlgvdjoidjtakdjajkqtiohjgcaotqjxriojdvqjelgxnqfj xdjsldvjwinq
eqqclogjaohjhlktqnowqodjvqjsixchjvapqjnqtigolmqhjdvqjoi cqj qaxdbjiejldk
wihqclog,jaohjdvqjgnatqexcjkqpqnldbjiejrilkqjaohjwipqwqod,jsvltvjwahq
QhoajRiodqcclqnjhleeqnqodjeniwjdvqjtnishf

Kvqjsinqjajtiicjwxkclojdvadjwinolog--svldq,jsldvjajsaplogjpqndltacjcloq
iej nisojnxoologjdvnixgvjld;jackijajsvldqjcloqojticcanjaohjdvqj lgjkdnas
vadjsvltvjkvqjvahjdauqojeniwjdvqjrqgjixdklhqjdvqjhiinfjDvqjvadjnqkdqh
aobjsabjiojvqnjbqccis- nisojvaln,jdvadjsapqhjajclddcq,jsakjvqapb,jaoh
tcxogjtcikqjdijvqnjvqahf

WahawqjNadlgoiccq,jwinqjtanqexcjiejvqnjtiwrcqylio,jvahjdsloqhjajgaxmq
pqlcja ixdjvqnjvqahfjKvqjsinqjhigkulojgcipqk,jsldvjgaxodcqdkjdvad
rnidqtdqhjvqnjsnlkdkfjKvqjsakjhnqkkqhjlojrxnqjsvldq,jsldvjajecxeeloqkk
iejnxeecqkjdvadj qtawqjvqnfjDvqjhnarqnlqkjaohjecxddqnlogjdvlogkjsvltv
kvqjsinqjkxldqhjvqnjnltv,jcxyxnlaodj qaxdbjakjajgnqadqnjkqpqnldbjiejcloq
tixchjoidjvapqjhioqf

Dvqnqjsqnqjajoxw qnjiej adv-vixkqkjaciogjdvqj qatv,jiejnixgvj xdjkiclh
tiokdnxtdlio,j xlcdjsldvjkwacc,jrnidqtdlogjgaccqnlqkjeatlogjdvqjsadqnf
Qatvjvixkqjtioklkdqhjiejdsijtiwrandwqodk,jaohjqatvjeawlcbjadjCq nxo'k
rikkqkkqhjajtiwrandwqodjeinjldkqce,jelddqhjixdjsldvjaccjdvqjqkkqodlac
ranarvqnoaclajiejdvqj advjaohjsvadqpqnjidvqnjtiopqolqotqkjdvqjisoqnk
wlgvdjhqklnqfjDvqjdsijsiwqojvahjoijlodqodliojiej advlog;jdvqbjvahjzxkd
kdniccqhjhisojdijdvqj qatvjeinjajsacujaohjdij qjacioqjaohjoqanjdvq
sadqnfjDvqjRiodqcclqnjaohjNadlgoiccqjtiwrandwqodkjahziloqhjioqjaoidvqn
xohqnjdvqjkawqjniief

WnkfjRiodqcclqnjvahj nixgvdjhisojvqnjuqbjdvnixgvjeintqjiejva ldf
Xocitulogjdvqjhiinjiejvqnj adv-niiwjkvqjsqodjloklhq,jaohjkiiojqwqngqh,
 nloglogjajnxg,jsvltvjkvqjkrnqahjxriojdvqjeciinjiejdvqjgaccqnb,jaohjdsi
vxgqjvalnjrlcciskjtipqnqhjsldvjtnakv,jsvltvjkvqjrcatqhjagalokdjdvqjeniod
iejdvqj xlchlogf

Dvqjdsijkqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjdvqnqjlojdvqjkvahqjiejdvqjrintv,jklhqj bjklhq,
sldvjdvqlnj atukjagalokdjdvqjrlcciskjaohjdvqlnjeqqdjqydqohqhfjWahawq
Nadlgoiccqjnqwipqhjvqnjpqlc,jslrqhjvqnjeatqjsldvjajnadvqnjhqcltadq
vaohuqntvlqe,jaohjeaooqhjvqnkqcejsldvjdvqjeaojsvltvjkvqjacsabkjtannlqh
kxkrqohqhjkiwqsvqnqja ixdjvqnjrqnkioj bjajciog,joannisjnl  iofjQhoa
nqwipqhjvqnjticcanjaohjirqoqhjvqnjhnqkkjadjdvqjdvniadfjKvqjdiiujdvqjeao
eniwjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjaohj qgaojdijeaoj idvjvqnkqcejaohjvqnjtiwraoliof
Ldjsakjpqnbjsanw,jaohjeinjajsvlcqjdvqbjhlhjoidvlogj xdjqytvaogqjnqwanuk
a ixdjdvqjvqad,jdvqjkxo,jdvqjgcanqfj xdjdvqnqjsakjaj nqqmqj cislog,ja
tvirrb,jkdleejslohjdvadjsvlrrqhjdvqjsadqnjlodijenidvfjLdjecxddqnqhjdvq
kulndkjiejdvqjdsijsiwqojaohjuqrdjdvqwjeinjajsvlcqjqogagqhjlojahzxkdlog,
nqahzxkdlog,jdxtulogjlo,jkqtxnlogjvaln-rlokjaohjvad-rlokfjAjeqsjrqnkiok
sqnqjkrindlogjkiwqjhlkdaotqjasabjlojdvqjsadqnfjDvqj qatvjsakjpqnbjkdlcc
iejvxwaojkixohjadjdvadjvixnfjDvqjcahbjloj catujsakjnqahlogjvqnjwinolog
hqpidliokjiojdvqjrintvjiejajoqlgv inlogj advvixkqfjDsijbixogjcipqnkjsqnq
qytvaoglogjdvqlnjvqandk'jbqanologkj qoqadvjdvqjtvlchnqo'kjdqod,jsvltv
dvqbjvahjeixohjxoittxrlqhf

QhoajRiodqcclqn,jtakdlogjvqnjqbqkja ixd,jvahjeloaccbjuqrdjdvqwjadjnqkd
xriojdvqjkqafjDvqjhabjsakjtcqanjaohjtannlqhjdvqjgamqjixdjakjeanjakjdvq
 cxqjkubjsqod;jdvqnqjsqnqjajeqsjsvldqjtcixhkjkxkrqohqhjlhcbjipqnjdvq
vinlmiofjAjcadqqojkalcjsakjplkl cqjlojdvqjhlnqtdliojiejTadjLkcaoh,jaoh
idvqnkjdijdvqjkixdvjkqqwqhjacwikdjwidliocqkkjlojdvqjeanjhlkdaotqf

“Iejsviw--iejsvadjanqjbixjdvloulog?”jakuqhjAhqcqjiejvqnjtiwraolio,
svikqjtixodqoaotqjkvqjvahj qqojsadtvlogjsldvjajclddcqjawxkqhjaddqodlio,
annqkdqhj bjdvqja kin qhjqyrnqkkliojsvltvjkqqwqhjdijvapqjkqlmqhjaoh
elyqhjqpqnbjeqadxnqjlodijajkdadxqk.xqjnqrikqf

“Oidvlog,”jnqdxnoqhjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jsldvjajkdand,jahhlogjadjiotq:j“Vis
kdxrlh!j xdjldjkqqwkjdijwqjldjlkjdvqjnqrcbjsqjwauqjlokdlotdlpqcbjdi
kxtvjaj.xqkdliofjCqdjwqjkqq,”jkvqjsqodjio,jdvnislogj atujvqnjvqahjaoh
oannislogjvqnjeloqjqbqkjdlccjdvqbjkvioqjcluqjdsijplplhjrilodkjiejclgvdf
“CqdjwqjkqqfjLjsakjnqaccbjoidjtioktlixkjiejdvloulogjiejaobdvlog;j xd
rqnvarkjLjtaojnqdnatqjwbjdvixgvdkf”

“Iv!joqpqnjwloh!”jcaxgvqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccqfj“Ljawjoidj.xldqjki
qyatdlogfjLjslccjcqdjbixjieejdvlkjdlwqfjLdjlkjnqaccbjdiijvidjdijdvlou,
qkrqtlaccbjdijdvlouja ixdjdvloulogf”

“ xdjeinjdvqjexojiejld,”jrqnklkdqhjQhoafj“Elnkdjiejacc,jdvqjklgvdjiejdvq
sadqnjkdnqdtvlogjkijeanjasab,jdvikqjwidliocqkkjkalckjagalokdjdvqj cxq
kub,jwahqjajhqcltlixkjrltdxnqjdvadjLjzxkdjsaodqhjdijkldjaohjciiujadfjDvq
vidjslohj qadlogjlojwbjeatqjwahqjwqjdvlou--sldvixdjaobjtiooqtdliojdvadjL
taojdnatqjiejajkxwwqnjhabjlojUqodxtub,jiejajwqahisjdvadjkqqwqhjakj lgjak
dvqjitqaojdijdvqjpqnbjclddcqjglncjsaculogjdvnixgvjdvqjgnakk,jsvltvjsak
vlgvqnjdvaojvqnjsalkdfjKvqjdvnqsjixdjvqnjanwkjakjlejkslwwlogjsvqojkvq
sacuqh,j qadlogjdvqjdaccjgnakkjakjioqjkdnluqkjixdjlojdvqjsadqnfjIv,jL
kqqjdvqjtiooqtdliojois!”

“SvqnqjsqnqjbixjgilogjdvadjhabjlojUqodxtub,jsaculogjdvnixgvjdvqjgnakk?”

“Ljhio'djnqwqw qnjoisfjLjsakjzxkdjsaculogjhlagioaccbjatnikkjaj lgjelqchf
Wbjkxo- iooqdji kdnxtdqhjdvqjplqsfjLjtixchjkqqjiocbjdvqjkdnqdtvjiejgnqqo
 qeinqjwq,jaohjLjeqcdjakjlejLjwxkdjsacujiojeinqpqn,jsldvixdjtiwlogjdi
dvqjqohjiejldfjLjhio'djnqwqw qnjsvqdvqnjLjsakjenlgvdqoqhjinjrcqakqhfjL
wxkdjvapqj qqojqodqndaloqhf

“CluqcbjakjoidjldjsakjKxohab,”jkvqjcaxgvqh;j“aohjLjsakjnxoologjasabjeniw
rnabqnk,jeniwjdvqjRnqk bdqnlaojkqnpltq,jnqahjlojajkrlnldjiejgciiwj bjwb
eadvqnjdvadjtvlcckjwqjbqdjdijdvloujief”

“Aohjvapqjbixj qqojnxoologjasabjeniwjrnabqnkjqpqnjklotq,jwajtvqnq?”
jakuqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq,jawxkqhf

“Oi!jiv,joi!”jQhoajvakdqoqhjdijkabfj“Ljsakjajclddcqjxodvloulogjtvlchjlo
dvikqjhabk,jzxkdjeiccislogjajwlkcqahlogjlwrxckqjsldvixdj.xqkdliofjIojdvq
tiodnanb,jhxnlogjioqjrqnlihjiejwbjcleqjnqclgliojdiiujajelnwjvichjxrio
wq;jaedqnjLjsakjdsqcpqjaohjxodlc--xodlc--svb,jLjkxrrikqjxodlcjois,jdvixgv
Ljoqpqnjdvixgvdjwxtvja ixdjld--zxkdjhnlpqojaciogj bjva ldfj xdjhijbix
uois,”jkvqj niuqjiee,jdxnologjvqnj.xltujqbqkjxriojWahawqjNadlgoiccqjaoh
cqaologjeinsanhjajclddcqjkijakjdij nlogjvqnjeatqj.xldqjtcikqjdijdvad
iejvqnjtiwraolio,j“kiwqdlwqkjLjeqqcjdvlkjkxwwqnjakjlejLjsqnqjsaculog
dvnixgvjdvqjgnqqojwqahisjagalo;jlhcb,jalwcqkkcb,jxodvloulogjaoh
xogxlhqhf”

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjcalhjvqnjvaohjipqnjdvadjiejWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jsvltvjsak
oqanjvqnfjKqqlogjdvadjdvqjvaohjsakjoidjsldvhnaso,jkvqjtcakrqhjldjelnwcb
aohjsanwcbfjKvqjqpqojkdniuqhjldjajclddcq,jeiohcb,jsldvjdvqjidvqnjvaoh,
wxnwxnlogjlojaojxohqndioq,j“Raxpnqjtvqnlqf”

DvqjatdliojsakjadjelnkdjajclddcqjtioexklogjdijQhoa,j xdjkvqjkiiojcqod
vqnkqcejnqahlcbjdijdvqjTnqicq'kjgqodcqjtanqkkfjKvqjsakjoidjattxkdiwqhjdi
aojixdsanhjaohjkriuqojqyrnqkkliojiejaeeqtdlio,jqldvqnjlojvqnkqcejinjlo
idvqnkfjKvqjaohjvqnjbixogqnjklkdqn,jZaoqd,jvahj.xannqcqhjajgiihjhqac
dvnixgvjeintqjiejxoeindxoadqjva ldfjVqnjichqnjklkdqn,jWanganqd,jsak
wadniocbjaohjhlgolelqh,jrni a cbjeniwjvaplogjakkxwqhjwadniocbjaoh
vixkqsleqcbjnqkriokl lcldlqkjdiijqancbjlojcleq,jdvqlnjwidvqnjvaplog
hlqhjsvqojdvqbjsqnqj.xldqjbixog,jWanganqdjsakjoidjqeexklpq;jkvq
sakjrnatdltacfjQhoajvahjvahjaojittaklioacjglncjenlqoh,j xdjsvqdvqn
attlhqodaccbjinjoid,jdvqbjkqqwqhjdijvapqj qqojaccjiejioqjdbrq--dvq
kqce-tiodaloqhfjKvqjoqpqnjnqaclmqhjdvadjdvqjnqkqnpqjiejvqnjisojtvanatdqn
vahjwxtv,jrqnvarkjqpqnbdvlog,jdijhijsldvjdvlkfjVqnjwikdjlodlwadqjenlqoh
adjktviicjvahj qqojioqjiejnadvqnjqytqrdlioacjlodqccqtdxacjgledk,jsvi
snidqjeloq-kixohlogjqkkabk,jsvltvjQhoajahwlnqhjaohjkdnipqjdijlwldadq;
aohjsldvjvqnjkvqjdacuqhjaohjgcisqhjipqnjdvqjQogclkvjtcakkltk,jaoh
kiwqdlwqkjvqchjnqclglixkjaohjricldltacjtiodnipqnklqkf

Qhoajiedqojsiohqnqhjadjioqjrnirqokldbjsvltvjkiwqdlwqkjvahjlosanhcb
hlkdxn qhjvqnjsldvixdjtaxklogjaobjixdsanhjkvisjinjwaoleqkdadliojiojvqn
randfjAdjajpqnbjqancbjagq--rqnvarkjldjsakjsvqojkvqjdnapqnkqhjdvqjitqao
iejsaplogjgnakk--kvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvadjkvqjvahj qqojrakklioadqcbjqoawinqh
iejajhlgolelqhjaohjkah-qbqhjtapacnbjieeltqnjsvijplkldqhjvqnjeadvqnjlo
UqodxtubfjKvqjtixchjoidjcqapqjvlkjrnqkqotqjsvqojvqjsakjdvqnq,joinjnqwipq
vqnjqbqkjeniwjvlkjeatq,jsvltvjsakjkiwqdvlogjcluqjOaricqio'k,jsldvja
citujiej catujvalnjealclogjatnikkjdvqjeinqvqahfj xdjdvqjtapacnbjieeltqn
wqcdqhjlwrqntqrdl cbjixdjiejvqnjqylkdqotqf

Adjaoidvqnjdlwqjvqnjaeeqtdliokjsqnqjhqqrcbjqogagqhj bjajbixogjgqodcqwao
svijplkldqhjajcahbjiojajoqlgv inlogjrcaodadliofjLdjsakjaedqnjdvqbjsqod
dijWlkklkklrrljdijclpqfjDvqjbixogjwaojsakjqogagqhjdij qjwannlqhjdijdvq
bixogjcahb,jaohjdvqbjkiwqdlwqkjtaccqhjxriojWanganqd,jhnlplogjipqnjie
aedqnoiiokjlojaj xggbfjQhoajsakjajclddcqjwlkk,jzxkdjwqnglogjlodijvqn
dqqok;jaohjdvqjnqaclmadliojdvadjkvqjvqnkqcejsakjoidvlog,joidvlog,
oidvlogjdijdvqjqogagqhjbixogjwaojsakjaj lddqnjaeecltdliojdijvqnfj xdjvq,
dii,jsqodjdvqjsabjiejhnqawkf

Kvqjsakjajgnisojbixogjsiwaojsvqojkvqjsakjipqndauqoj bjsvadjkvqjkxrrikqh
dij qjdvqjtclwayjiejvqnjeadqfjLdjsakjsvqojdvqjeatqjaohjelgxnqjieja
gnqadjdnagqhlaoj qgaojdijvaxodjvqnjlwagloadliojaohjkdlnjvqnjkqokqkfjDvq
rqnklkdqotqjiejdvqjloeadxadliojcqodjldjaojakrqtdjiejgqoxloqoqkkfjDvq
virqcqkkoqkkjiejldjticinqhjldjsldvjdvqjciedbjdioqkjiejajgnqadjrakkliof

DvqjrltdxnqjiejdvqjdnagqhlaojkdiihjqoenawqhjxriojvqnjhqkufjAobjioq
wabjrikkqkkjdvqjrindnaldjiejajdnagqhlaojsldvixdjqytldlogjkxkrltliojin
tiwwqodfj(Dvlkjsakjajklolkdqnjnqecqtdliojsvltvjkvqjtvqnlkvqhf)jLojdvq
rnqkqotqjiejidvqnkjkvqjqyrnqkkqhjahwlnadliojeinjvlkjqyacdqhjgledk,jak
kvqjvaohqhjdvqjrvidignarvjanixohjaohjhsqcdjxriojdvqjelhqcldbjiejdvq
cluqoqkkfjSvqojacioqjkvqjkiwqdlwqkjrltuqhjldjxrjaohjulkkqhjdvqjtich
gcakkjrakklioadqcbf

VqnjwannlagqjdijCqiotqjRiodqcclqnjsakjrxnqcbjaojattlhqod,jlojdvlk
nqkrqtdjnqkqw clogjwaobjidvqnjwannlagqkjsvltvjwak.xqnahqjakjdvqjhqtnqqk
iejEadqfjLdjsakjlojdvqjwlhkdjiejvqnjkqtnqdjgnqadjrakkliojdvadjkvqjwqd
vlwfjVqjeqccjlojcipq,jakjwqojanqjlojdvqjva ldjiejhilog,jaohjrnqkkqhjvlk
kxldjsldvjaojqanoqkdoqkkjaohjaojanhinjsvltvjcqedjoidvlogjdij qjhqklnqhf
Vqjrcqakqhjvqn;jvlkja kicxdqjhqpidliojecaddqnqhjvqnfjKvqjeaotlqhjdvqnq
sakjajkbwradvbjiejdvixgvdjaohjdakdqj qdsqqojdvqw,jlojsvltvjeaotbjkvq
sakjwlkdauqofjAhhjdijdvlkjdvqjplicqodjirrikldliojiejvqnjeadvqnjaohjvqn
klkdqnjWanganqdjdijvqnjwannlagqjsldvjajTadviclt,jaohjsqjoqqhjkqqujoi
exndvqnjeinjdvqjwidlpqkjsvltvjcqhjvqnjdijattqrdjWioklqxnjRiodqcclqnjein
vqnjvxk aohf

Dvqjatwqjiej clkk,jsvltvjsixchjvapqj qqojajwannlagqjsldvjdvqjdnagqhlao,
sakjoidjeinjvqnjlojdvlkjsinchfjAkjdvqjhqpidqhjsleqjiejajwaojsvi
sinkvlrqhjvqn,jkvqjeqcdjkvqjsixchjdauqjvqnjrcatqjsldvjajtqndalojhlgoldb
lojdvqjsinchjiejnqacldb,jtciklogjdvqjrindackjeinqpqnj qvlohjvqnjxriojdvq
nqacwjiejniwaotqjaohjhnqawkf

 xdjldjsakjoidjciogj qeinqjdvqjdnagqhlaojvahjgioqjdijzilojdvqjtapacnb
ieeltqnjaohjdvqjqogagqhjbixogjwaojaohjajeqsjidvqnk;jaohjQhoajeixoh
vqnkqcejeatqjdijeatqjsldvjdvqjnqacldlqkfjKvqjgnqsjeiohjiejvqnjvxk aoh,
nqaclmlogjsldvjkiwqjxoattixoda cqjkadlkeatdliojdvadjoijdnatqjiejrakklio
injqytqkklpqjaohjeltdldlixkjsanwdvjticinqhjvqnjaeeqtdlio,jdvqnq b
dvnqadqologjldkjhlkkicxdliof

Kvqjsakjeiohjiejvqnjtvlchnqojlojaojxoqpqo,jlwrxcklpqjsabfjKvqjsixch
kiwqdlwqkjgadvqnjdvqwjrakklioadqcbjdijvqnjvqand;jkvqjsixchjkiwqdlwqk
eingqdjdvqwfjDvqjbqanj qeinqjdvqbjvahjkrqodjrandjiejdvqjkxwwqnjsldv
dvqlnjgnaohwidvqnjRiodqcclqnjlojL qnplccqfjEqqclogjkqtxnqjnqganhlog
dvqlnjvarrloqkkjaohjsqceanq,jkvqjhlhjoidjwlkkjdvqwjqytqrdjsldvjao
ittaklioacjlodqokqjcioglogfjDvqlnja kqotqjsakjajkindjiejnqclqe,jdvixgv
kvqjhlhjoidjahwldjdvlk,jqpqojdijvqnkqcefjLdjkqqwqhjdijenqqjvqnjieja
nqkriokl lcldbjsvltvjkvqjvahj clohcbjakkxwqhjaohjeinjsvltvjEadqjvahjoid
elddqhjvqnf

QhoajhlhjoidjnqpqacjkijwxtvjakjaccjdvlkjdijWahawqjNadlgoiccqjdvadjkxwwqn
habjsvqojdvqbjkadjsldvjeatqkjdxnoqhjdijdvqjkqafj xdjajgiihjrandjiejld
qktarqhjvqnfjKvqjvahjrxdjvqnjvqahjhisojiojWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjkvixchqnf
Kvqjsakjecxkvqhjaohjeqcdjlodiyltadqhjsldvjdvqjkixohjiejvqnjisojpiltqjaoh
dvqjxoattxkdiwqhjdakdqjiejtaohinfjLdjwxhhcqhjvqnjcluqjsloq,jinjcluqja
elnkdj nqadvjiejenqqhiwf

DvqnqjsakjdvqjkixohjiejarrniatvlogjpiltqkfjLdjsakjNi qnd,jkxnnixohqhj b
ajdniirjiejtvlchnqo,jkqantvlogjeinjdvqwfjDvqjdsijclddcqjRiodqcclqnkjsqnq
sldvjvlw,jaohjvqjtannlqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjclddcqjglncjlojvlkjanwkf
Dvqnqjsqnqjidvqnjtvlchnqoj qklhq,jaohjdsijoxnkq-walhkjeiccisqh,jciiulog
hlkagnqqa cqjaohjnqklgoqhf

Dvqjsiwqojadjiotqjnikqjaohj qgaojdijkvauqjixdjdvqlnjhnarqnlqkjaohjnqcay
dvqlnjwxktcqkfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjdvnqsjdvqjtxkvliokjaohjnxgjlodijdvq
 adv-vixkqfjDvqjtvlchnqojaccjktawrqnqhjieejdijdvqjasolog,jaohjdvqbjkdiih
dvqnqjlojajcloq,jgamlogjxriojdvqjlodnxhlogjcipqnk,jkdlccjqytvaoglog
dvqlnjpiskjaohjklgvkfjDvqjcipqnkjgidjxr,jsldvjiocbjajklcqodjrnidqkd,jaoh
sacuqhjkciscbjasabjkiwqsvqnqjqckqf

Dvqjtvlchnqojrikkqkkqhjdvqwkqcpqkjiejdvqjdqod,jaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsqod
ipqnjdijzilojdvqwf

WahawqjNadlgoiccqj qggqhjNi qndjdijattiwraobjvqnjdijdvqjvixkq;jkvq
tiwrcaloqhjiejtnawrjlojvqnjclw kjaohjkdleeoqkkjiejdvqjzilodkfjKvqjcqaoqh
hnagglogcbjxriojvlkjanwjakjdvqbjsacuqhf




PLLL


“Hijwqjajeapin,jNi qnd,”jkriuqjdvqjrnqddbjsiwaojadjvlkjklhq,jacwikdjak
kiiojakjkvqjaohjNi qndjvahjkdandqhjdvqlnjkcis,jviwqsanhjsabfjKvqjciiuqh
xrjlojvlkjeatq,jcqaologjiojvlkjanwj qoqadvjdvqjqotlntclogjkvahisjiejdvq
xw nqccajsvltvjvqjvahjcledqhf

“Gnaodqh;jakjwaobjakjbixjcluq,”jvqjnqdxnoqh,jgcaotlogjhisojlodijvqnjqbqk
dvadjsqnqjexccjiejdvixgvdexcoqkkjaohjkiwqjkrqtxcadliof

“Ljiocbjakujeinjioq;jcqdjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjacioqf”

“Dlqok!”jvqjqytcalwqh,jsldvjajkxhhqo,j iblkvjcaxgvfj“Pilcaj.xqjWahawq
Nadlgoiccqjqkdjzacixkq!”

“Oiokqokq!jL'wjlojqanoqkd;jLjwqaojsvadjLjkabfjCqdjWnkfjRiodqcclqn
acioqf”

“Svb?”jvqjakuqh;jvlwkqcejgnislogjkqnlixkjadjvlkjtiwraolio'k
kicltldadliof

“Kvqjlkjoidjioqjiejxk;jkvqjlkjoidjcluqjxkfjKvqjwlgvdjwauqjdvq
xoeindxoadqj cxohqnjiejdaulogjbixjkqnlixkcbf”

Vlkjeatqjecxkvqhjsldvjaooibaotq,jaohjdaulogjieejvlkjkiedjvadjvqj qgao
dij qadjldjlwradlqodcbjagalokdjvlkjcqgjakjvqjsacuqhfj“Svbjkvixcho'djkvq
dauqjwqjkqnlixkcb?”jvqjhqwaohqhjkvanrcbfj“AwjLjajtiwqhlao,jajtciso,ja
zatu-lo-dvq- iy?jSvbjkvixcho'djkvq?jBixjTnqicqk!jLjvapqjoijradlqotqjsldv
bix!jAwjLjacsabkjdij qjnqganhqhjakjajeqadxnqjiejaojawxklogjrnignawwq?jL
virqjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjhiqkjdauqjwqjkqnlixkcbfjLjvirqjkvqjvakjhlktqnowqod
qoixgvjdijelohjlojwqjkiwqdvlogj qklhqkjdvqj cagxqxnfjLejLjdvixgvdjdvqnq
sakjaobjhix d--”

“Iv,jqoixgv,jNi qnd!”jkvqj niuqjlodijvlkjvqadqhjixd xnkdfj“Bixjanq
oidjdvloulogjiejsvadjbixjanqjkablogfjBixjkrqaujsldvja ixdjakjclddcq
nqecqtdliojakjsqjwlgvdjqyrqtdjeniwjioqjiejdvikqjtvlchnqojhisojdvqnq
rcablogjlojdvqjkaohfjLejbixnjaddqodliokjdijaobjwannlqhjsiwqojvqnqjsqnq
qpqnjieeqnqhjsldvjaobjlodqodliojiej qlogjtioplotlog,jbixjsixchjoidj q
dvqjgqodcqwaojsqjaccjuoisjbixjdij q,jaohjbixjsixchj qjxoeldjdijakkitladq
sldvjdvqjslpqkjaohjhaxgvdqnkjiejdvqjrqircqjsvijdnxkdjbixf”

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjvahjkriuqojsvadjkvqj qclqpqhjdij qjdvqjcasjaohjdvq
gikrqcfjDvqjbixogjwaojkvnxggqhjvlkjkvixchqnkjlwradlqodcbf

“Iv!jsqcc!jDvadjlko'djld,”jkcawwlogjvlkjvadjhisojpqvqwqodcbjxriojvlk
vqahfj“Bixjixgvdjdijeqqcjdvadjkxtvjdvlogkjanqjoidjecaddqnlogjdijkabjdija
eqccisf”

“Kvixchjixnjsvicqjlodqntixnkqjtioklkdjiejaojqytvaogqjiejtiwrclwqodk?jWa
eil!”

“Ldjlko'djrcqakaodjdijvapqjajsiwaojdqccjbix--”jvqjsqodjio,jxovqqhlogcb,
 xdj nqaulogjieejkxhhqocb:j“OisjlejLjsqnqjcluqjAni lo--bixjnqwqw qnjActqq
Ani lojaohjdvadjkdinbjiejdvqjtiokxc'kjsleqjadj lciyl?”jAohjvqjnqcadqh
dvqjkdinbjiejActqqjAni lojaohjdvqjtiokxc'kjsleq;jaohjaoidvqnja ixdjdvq
dqoinjiejdvqjEnqotvjIrqna,jsvijnqtqlpqhjcqddqnkjsvltvjkvixchjoqpqn
vapqj qqojsnlddqo;jaohjkdlccjidvqnjkdinlqk,jgnapqjaohjgab,jdlccjWnkf
Riodqcclqnjaohjvqnjrikkl cqjrnirqokldbjeinjdaulogjbixogjwqojkqnlixkcb
sakjarranqodcbjeingiddqof

WahawqjNadlgoiccq,jsvqojdvqbjvahjnqgaloqhjvqnjtiddagq,jsqodjlojdijdauq
dvqjvixn'kjnqkdjsvltvjkvqjtioklhqnqhjvqcrexcfj qeinqjcqaplogjvqn,jNi qnd
 qggqhjvqnjranhiojeinjdvqjlwradlqotq--vqjtaccqhjldjnxhqoqkk--sldvjsvltv
vqjvahjnqtqlpqhjvqnjsqcc-wqaodjtaxdliof

“Bixjwahqjioqjwlkdauq,jAhqcq,”jvqjkalh,jsldvjajclgvdjkwlcq;j“dvqnqjlk
oijqandvcbjrikkl lcldbjiejWnkfjRiodqcclqnjqpqnjdaulogjwqjkqnlixkcbfjBix
kvixchjvapqjsanoqhjwqjagalokdjdaulogjwbkqcejkqnlixkcbfjBixnjahpltqjwlgvd
dvqojvapqjtannlqhjkiwqjsqlgvdjaohjglpqojwqjkx zqtdjeinjkiwqjnqecqtdliof
Axjnqpilnfj xdjbixjciiujdlnqh,”jvqjahhqh,jkicltldixkcbfj“Sixchjbixjcluq
ajtxrjiej ixlccio?jKvaccjLjkdlnjbixjajdihhb?jCqdjwqjwlyjbixjajdihhbjsldv
ajhnirjiejAogikdxnaf”

Kvqjattqhqhjdijdvqjkxggqkdliojiej ixlccio,jsvltvjsakjgnadqexcjaoh
attqrda cqfjVqjsqodjvlwkqcejdijdvqjuldtvqo,jsvltvjsakjaj xlchlogjarand
eniwjdvqjtiddagqkjaohjcblogjdijdvqjnqanjiejdvqjvixkqfjAohjvqjvlwkqce
 nixgvdjvqnjdvqjgichqo- nisoj ixlccio,jlojajhalodbjKqpnqkjtxr,jsldvja
ecaubjtnatuqnjinjdsijiojdvqjkaxtqnf

Kvqjdvnxkdjaj anq,jsvldqjanwjeniwjdvqjtxndalojsvltvjkvlqchqhjvqnjirqo
hiin,jaohjnqtqlpqhjdvqjtxrjeniwjvlkjvaohkfjKvqjdichjvlwjvqjsakjaj io
gantio,jaohjkvqjwqaodjldfjNi qndjdvaouqhjvqnjaohjdxnoqhjasabjdisanhj“dvq
vixkqf”

DvqjcipqnkjsqnqjzxkdjqodqnlogjdvqjgnixohkjiejdvqjrqokliofjDvqbjsqnq
cqaologjdisanhjqatvjidvqnjakjdvqjsadqniaukj qodjeniwjdvqjkqafjDvqnqjsak
oidjajrandltcqjiejqandvj qoqadvjdvqlnjeqqdfjDvqlnjvqahkjwlgvdjvapqj qqo
dxnoqhjxrklhq-hiso,jkija kicxdqcbjhlhjdvqbjdnqahjxrioj cxqjqdvqnfjDvq
cahbjloj catu,jtnqqrlogj qvlohjdvqw,jciiuqhjajdnlecqjracqnjaohjwinq
zahqhjdvaojxkxacfjDvqnqjsakjoijklgojiejWnkfjRiodqcclqnjaohjdvqjtvlchnqof
Ni qndjktaooqhjdvqjhlkdaotqjeinjaobjkxtvjarranldliofjDvqbjsixch
hix dcqkkjnqwalojasabjdlccjdvqjhlooqnjvixnfjDvqjbixogjwaojaktqohqhjdi
vlkjwidvqn'kjniiwfjLdjsakjkldxadqhjadjdvqjdirjiejdvqjvixkq,jwahqjxrjie
ihhjaogcqkjaohjaj.xqqn,jkcirlogjtqlclogfjDsij niahjhinwqnjslohiskjciiuqh
ixdjdisanhjdvqjGxce,jaohjakjeanjatnikkjldjakjajwao'kjqbqjwlgvdjnqatvf
Dvqjexnolkvlogkjiejdvqjniiwjsqnqjclgvd,jtiic,jaohjrnatdltacf

WahawqjCq nxojsakj xklcbjqogagqhjadjdvqjkqslog-watvloqfjAjclddcqj catu
glncjkadjiojdvqjeciin,jaohjsldvjvqnjvaohkjsinuqhjdvqjdnqahcqjiejdvq
watvloqfjDvqjTnqicqjsiwaojhiqkjoidjdauqjaobjtvaotqkjsvltvjwabj qjapilhqh
iejlwrqnlclogjvqnjvqacdvf

Ni qndjsqodjipqnjaohjkqadqhjvlwkqcejiojdvqj niahjklccjiejioqjiejdvq
hinwqnjslohiskfjVqjdiiujaj iiujeniwjvlkjrituqdjaohj qgaojqoqngqdltaccb
dijnqahjld,jzxhglogj bjdvqjrnqtlkliojaohjenq.xqotbjsldvjsvltvjvqjdxnoqh
dvqjcqapqkfjDvqjkqslog-watvloqjwahqjajnqkixohlogjtcaddqnjlojdvqjniiw;
ldjsakjiejajriohqnixk,j b-gioqjwauqfjLojdvqjcxcck,jNi qndjaohjvlkjwidvqn
qytvaogqhj ldkjiejhqkxcdinbjtiopqnkadliof

“SvqnqjlkjWnkfjRiodqcclqn?”

“Hisojadjdvqj qatvjsldvjdvqjtvlchnqof”

“LjrniwlkqhjdijcqohjvqnjdvqjGiotixndfjHio'djeingqdjdijdauqjldjhisojsvqo
bixjgi;jld'kjdvqnqjiojdvqj iiukvqcejipqnjdvqjkwaccjda cqf”jTcaddqn,
tcaddqn,jtcaddqn,j aog!jeinjdvqjoqydjelpqjinjqlgvdjwloxdqkf

“SvqnqjlkjPltdinjgilogjsldvjdvqjnituasab?”

“Dvqjnituasab?jPltdin?”

“Bqk;jhisojdvqnqjlojeniodfjVqjkqqwkjdij qjgqddlogjnqahbjdijhnlpqjasab
kiwqsvqnqf”

“Taccjvlwf”jTcaddqn,jtcaddqn!

Ni qndjxddqnqhjajkvnlcc,jrlqntlogjsvlkdcqjsvltvjwlgvdjvapqj qqojvqanh
 atujadjdvqjsvanef

“Vqjsio'djciiujxrf”

WahawqjCq nxojecqsjdijdvqjslohisfjKvqjtaccqhj“Pltdin!”jKvqjsapqhja
vaohuqntvlqejaohjtaccqhjagalofjDvqjbixogjeqccisj qcisjgidjlodijdvq
pqvltcqjaohjkdandqhjdvqjvinkqjieejadjajgaccirf

WahawqjCq nxojsqodj atujdijdvqjwatvloq,jtnlwkiojsldvjaooibaotqfjPltdin
sakjdvqjbixogqnjkiojaohj nidvqn--ajdqdqjwiodqq,jsldvjajdqwrqnjsvltv
lopldqhjplicqotqjaohjajslccjsvltvjoijayjtixchj nqauf

“SvqoqpqnjbixjkabjdvqjsinhjL'wjnqahbjdijdvnakvjaobjawixodjiejnqakiojlodi
vlwjdvadjvq'kja cqjdijvichf”

“Lejbixnjeadvqnjvahjiocbjclpqh!”jTcaddqn,jtcaddqn,jtcaddqn,jtcaddqn,
 aog!jLdjsakjajelyqhj qclqejsldvjWahawqjCq nxojdvadjdvqjtiohxtdjiejdvq
xolpqnkqjaohjaccjdvlogkjrqndalologjdvqnqdijsixchjvapqj qqojwaoleqkdcbjie
ajwinqjlodqcclgqodjaohjvlgvqnjinhqnjvahjoidjWioklqxnjCq nxoj qqojnqwipqh
dijidvqnjkrvqnqkjhxnlogjdvqjqancbjbqankjiejdvqlnjwannlqhjcleqf

“SvadjhijbixjvqanjeniwjWiodqc?”jWiodqcjsakjajwlhhcq-agqhjgqodcqwaojsvikq
palojaw ldliojaohjhqklnqjeinjdvqjrakdjdsqodbjbqankjvahj qqojdijelcc
dvqjpilhjsvltvjWioklqxnjCq nxo'kjdaulogjieejvahjcqedjlojdvqjCq nxo
vixkqvichfjTcaddqn,jtcaddqn,j aog,jtcaddqn!

“Ljvapqjajcqddqnjkiwqsvqnq,”jciiulogjlojdvqjwatvloqjhnasqnjaohjelohlog
dvqjcqddqnjlojdvqj iddiwjiejdvqjsinu akuqdfj“Vqjkabkjdijdqccjbixjvqjslcc
 qjlojPqnajTnxmjdvqj qgloologjiejoqydjwiodv,”--tcaddqn,jtcaddqn!--“aoh
lejbixjkdlccjvapqjdvqjlodqodliojiejzilologjvlw”-- aog!jtcaddqn,jtcaddqn,
 aog!

“Svbjhlho'djbixjdqccjwqjkij qeinq,jwidvqn?jBixjuoisjLjsaodqh--”jTcaddqn,
tcaddqn,jtcaddqn!

“HijbixjkqqjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjkdandlogj atujsldvjdvqjtvlchnqo?jKvqjslcc
 qjlojcadqjdijcxotvqiojagalofjKvqjoqpqnjkdandkjdijgqdjnqahbjeinjcxotvqio
dlccjdvqjcakdjwloxdqf”jTcaddqn,jtcaddqn!j“Svqnqjanqjbixjgilog?”

“SvqnqjhlhjbixjkabjdvqjGiotixndjsak?”




LY


Qpqnbjclgvdjlojdvqjvaccjsakja camq;jqpqnbjcawrjdxnoqhjakjvlgvjakjld
tixchj qjsldvixdjkwiulogjdvqjtvlwoqbjinjdvnqadqologjqyrcikliofjDvqjcawrk
sqnqjelyqhjadjlodqnpackjagalokdjdvqjsacc,jqotlntclogjdvqjsvicqjniiwf
Kiwqjioqjvahjgadvqnqhjinaogqjaohjcqwioj naotvqk,jaohjsldvjdvqkq
eakvlioqhjgnatqexcjeqkdiiokj qdsqqofjDvqjhanujgnqqojiejdvqj naotvqk
kdiihjixdjaohjgclkdqoqhjagalokdjdvqjsvldqjwxkclojtxndalokjsvltvjhnarqh
dvqjslohisk,jaohjsvltvjrxeeqh,jeciadqh,jaohjecarrqhjadjdvqjtarnltlixk
slccjiejajkdleej nqqmqjdvadjksqrdjxrjeniwjdvqjGxcef

LdjsakjKadxnhabjolgvdjajeqsjsqqukjaedqnjdvqjlodlwadqjtiopqnkadliojvqch
 qdsqqojNi qndjaohjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjiojdvqlnjsabjeniwjdvqj qatvfjAo
xoxkxacjoxw qnjiejvxk aohk,jeadvqnk,jaohjenlqohkjvahjtiwqjhisojdijkdab
ipqnjKxohab;jaohjdvqbjsqnqj qlogjkxlda cbjqodqndaloqhj bjdvqlnjeawlclqk,
sldvjdvqjwadqnlacjvqcrjiejWahawqjCq nxofjDvqjhlologjda cqkjvahjaccj qqo
nqwipqhjdijioqjqohjiejdvqjvacc,jaohjdvqjtvalnkjnaogqhja ixdjlojniskjaoh
lojtcxkdqnkfjQatvjclddcqjeawlcbjgnixrjvahjvahjldkjkabjaohjqytvaogqh
ldkjhiwqkdltjgikklrjqanclqnjlojdvqjqpqologfjDvqnqjsakjoisjaojarranqod
hlkrikldliojdijnqcay;jdijslhqojdvqjtlntcqjiejtioelhqotqkjaohjglpqjajwinq
gqoqnacjdioqjdijdvqjtiopqnkadliof

Waobjiejdvqjtvlchnqojvahj qqojrqnwlddqhjdijkldjxrj qbiohjdvqlnjxkxac
 qhdlwqfjAjkwaccj aohjiejdvqwjsqnqjcblogjiojdvqlnjkdiwatvkjiojdvqjeciin
ciiulogjadjdvqjticinqhjkvqqdkjiejdvqjtiwltjrarqnkjsvltvjWnfjRiodqcclqn
vahj nixgvdjhisofjDvqjclddcqjRiodqcclqnj ibkjsqnqjrqnwlddlogjdvqwjdijhi
ki,jaohjwaulogjdvqlnjaxdvinldbjeqcdf

Wxklt,jhaotlog,jaohjajnqtldadliojinjdsijsqnqjdvqjqodqndalowqodk
exnolkvqh,jinjnadvqn,jieeqnqhfj xdjdvqnqjsakjoidvlogjkbkdqwadltja ixd
dvqjrnignawwq,joijarrqanaotqjiejrnqannaogqwqodjoinjqpqojrnqwqhldadliof

AdjaojqancbjvixnjlojdvqjqpqologjdvqjEanlpacjdslokjsqnqjrnqpalcqhjxriojdi
rcabjdvqjrlaoifjDvqbjsqnqjglnckjiejeixndqqo,jacsabkjtcahjlojdvqjPlnglo'k
ticink,j cxqjaohjsvldq,jvaplogj qqojhqhltadqhjdijdvqj cqkkqhjPlnglo
adjdvqlnj ardlkwfjDvqbjrcabqhjajhxqdjeniwj“Mawra,”jaohjadjdvqjqanoqkd
kicltldadliojiejqpqnbjioqjrnqkqodjeiccisqhjldjsldvjdvqjipqndxnqjdij“Dvq
RiqdjaohjdvqjRqakaodf”

“Accqmjpixk-qo!jKarnlkdl!”jkvnlquqhjdvqjrannidjixdklhqjdvqjhiinfjVqjsak
dvqjiocbj qlogjrnqkqodjsvijrikkqkkqhjkxeeltlqodjtaohinjdijahwldjdvadjvq
sakjoidjclkdqologjdijdvqkqjgnatlixkjrqneinwaotqkjeinjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjdvad
kxwwqnfjIchjWioklqxnjEanlpac,jgnaoheadvqnjiejdvqjdslok,jgnqsjlohlgoaod
ipqnjdvqjlodqnnxrdlio,jaohjloklkdqhjxriojvaplogjdvqj lnhjnqwipqhjaoh
tioklgoqhjdijnqgliokjiejhanuoqkkfjPltdinjCq nxoji zqtdqh;jaohjvlk
hqtnqqkjsqnqjakjlwwxda cqjakjdvikqjiejEadqfjDvqjrannidjeindxoadqcb
ieeqnqhjoijexndvqnjlodqnnxrdliojdijdvqjqodqndalowqod,jdvqjsvicqjpqoiw
iejvlkjoadxnqjarranqodcbjvaplogj qqojtvqnlkvqhjxrjaohjvxncqhjagalokdjdvq
dslokjlojdvadjioqjlwrqdxixkjixd xnkdf

Cadqnjajbixogj nidvqnjaohjklkdqnjgapqjnqtldadliok,jsvltvjqpqnbjioq
rnqkqodjvahjvqanhjwaobjdlwqkjadjslodqnjqpqologjqodqndalowqodkjlojdvq
tldbf

Ajclddcqjglncjrqneinwqhjajkulndjhaotqjlojdvqjtqodqnjiejdvqjeciinf
Dvqjwidvqnjrcabqhjvqnjattiwraolwqodkjaohjadjdvqjkawqjdlwqjsadtvqhjvqn
haxgvdqnjsldvjgnqqhbjahwlnadliojaohjoqnpixkjarrnqvqokliofjKvqjoqqhjvapq
vahjoijarrnqvqokliofjDvqjtvlchjsakjwlkdnqkkjiejdvqjkldxadliofjKvqjvah
 qqojrnirqncbjhnqkkqhjeinjdvqjittakliojloj catujdxccqjaohj catujklcu
dlgvdkfjVqnjclddcqjoqtujaohjanwkjsqnqj anq,jaohjvqnjvaln,jandleltlaccb
tnlwrqh,jkdiihjixdjcluqjecxeebj catujrcxwqkjipqnjvqnjvqahfjVqnjrikqk
sqnqjexccjiejgnatq,jaohjvqnjclddcqj catu-kvihjdiqkjdsloucqhjakjdvqbjkvid
ixdjaohjxrsanhjsldvjajnarlhldbjaohjkxhhqooqkkjsvltvjsqnqj qslchqnlogf

 xdjdvqnqjsakjoijnqakiojsvbjqpqnbjioqjkvixchjoidjhaotqfjWahawq
Nadlgoiccqjtixchjoid,jkijldjsakjkvqjsvijgalcbjtiokqodqhjdijrcabjeinjdvq
idvqnkfjKvqjrcabqhjpqnbjsqcc,juqqrlogjqytqccqodjsacdmjdlwqjaohjloexklog
aojqyrnqkkliojlodijdvqjkdnalokjsvltvjsakjlohqqhjlokrlnlogfjKvqjsak
uqqrlogjxrjvqnjwxkltjiojattixodjiejdvqjtvlchnqo,jkvqjkalh;j qtaxkqjkvq
aohjvqnjvxk aohj idvjtioklhqnqhjldjajwqaokjiej nlgvdqologjdvqjviwqjaoh
waulogjldjaddnatdlpqf

Acwikdjqpqnbjioqjhaotqhj xdjdvqjdslok,jsvijtixchjoidj qjlohxtqhjdi
kqranadqjhxnlogjdvqj nlqejrqnlihjsvqojioqjinjdvqjidvqnjkvixchj q
svlnclogjanixohjdvqjniiwjlojdvqjanwkjiejajwaofjDvqbjwlgvdjvapqjhaotqh
digqdvqn,j xdjdvqbjhlhjoidjdvloujiejldf

Dvqjtvlchnqojsqnqjkqodjdij qhfjKiwqjsqodjkx wlkklpqcb;jidvqnkjsldv
kvnlqukjaohjrnidqkdkjakjdvqbjsqnqjhnaggqhjasabfjDvqbjvahj qqojrqnwlddqh
dijkldjxrjdlccjaedqnjdvqjltq-tnqaw,jsvltvjoadxnaccbjwanuqhjdvqjclwldjie
vxwaojlohxcgqotqf

Dvqjltq-tnqawjsakjrakkqhjanixohjsldvjtauq--gichjaohjklcpqnjtauqjannaogqh
iojrcaddqnkjlojacdqnoadqjkcltqk;jldjvahj qqojwahqjaohjenimqojhxnlogjdvq
aedqnoiioj atujiejdvqjuldtvqoj bjdsij catujsiwqo,jxohqnjdvqjkxrqnplklio
iejPltdinfjLdjsakjrnioixotqhjajgnqadjkxttqkk--qytqccqodjlejldjvahjiocb
tiodaloqhjajclddcqjcqkkjpaolccajinjajclddcqjwinqjkxgan,jlejldjvahj qqo
enimqojajhqgnqqjvanhqn,jaohjlejdvqjkacdjwlgvdjvapqj qqojuqrdjixdjie
rindliokjiejldfjPltdinjsakjrnixhjiejvlkjatvlqpqwqod,jaohjsqodja ixd
nqtiwwqohlogjldjaohjxnglogjqpqnbjioqjdijrandauqjiejldjdijqytqkkf

AedqnjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjvahjhaotqhjdsltqjsldvjvqnjvxk aoh,jiotqjsldv
Ni qnd,jaohjiotqjsldvjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccq,jsvijsakjdvlojaohjdaccjaoh
ksabqhjcluqjajnqqhjlojdvqjslohjsvqojvqjhaotqh,jkvqjsqodjixdjiojdvq
gaccqnbjaohjkqadqhjvqnkqcejiojdvqjcisjslohis-klcc,jsvqnqjkvqjtiwwaohqhja
plqsjiejaccjdvadjsqodjiojlojdvqjvaccjaohjtixchjciiujixdjdisanhjdvqjGxcef
DvqnqjsakjajkiedjqeexcgqotqjlojdvqjqakdfjDvqjwiiojsakjtiwlogjxr,jaohjldk
wbkdltjkvlwwqnjsakjtakdlogjajwlccliojclgvdkjatnikkjdvqjhlkdaod,jnqkdcqkk
sadqnf

“SixchjbixjcluqjdijvqanjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjrcab?”jakuqhjNi qnd,jtiwlog
ixdjiojdvqjrintvjsvqnqjkvqjsakfjIejtixnkqjQhoajsixchjcluqjdijvqan
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjrcab;j xdjkvqjeqanqhjldjsixchj qjxkqcqkkjdijqodnqad
vqnf

“L'ccjakujvqn,”jvqjkalhfj“L'ccjdqccjvqnjdvadjbixjsaodjdijvqanjvqnfjKvq
cluqkjbixfjKvqjslccjtiwqf”jVqjdxnoqhjaohjvxnnlqhjasabjdijioqjiejdvqjean
tiddagqk,jsvqnqjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjsakjkvxeeclogjasabfjKvqjsakjhnagglog
ajtvalnjlojaohjixdjiejvqnjniiw,jaohjadjlodqnpackji zqtdlogjdijdvqjtnblog
iejaj a b,jsvltvjajoxnkqjlojdvqjahzilologjtiddagqjsakjqohqapinlogjdijrxd
dijkcqqrfjKvqjsakjajhlkagnqqa cqjclddcqjsiwao,joijciogqnjbixog,jsvi
vahj.xannqcqhjsldvjacwikdjqpqnbjioq,jislogjdijajdqwrqnjsvltvjsak
kqce-akkqndlpqjaohjajhlkrikldliojdijdnawrcqjxriojdvqjnlgvdkjiejidvqnkf
Ni qndjrnqpalcqhjxriojvqnjsldvixdjaobjdiijgnqadjhleeltxcdbf

KvqjqodqnqhjdvqjvaccjsldvjvlwjhxnlogjajcxccjlojdvqjhaotqfjKvqjwahqjao
asusanh,jlwrqnlixkjclddcqj isjakjkvqjsqodjlofjKvqjsakjajviwqcbjsiwao,
sldvjajkwaccjsqamqoqhjeatqjaohj ihbjaohjqbqkjdvadjgcisqhfjKvqjvah
a kicxdqcbjoijdakdqjlojhnqkk,jaohjsinqjaj adtvjiejnxkdbj catujcatqjsldv
aj xotvjiejandleltlacjplicqdkjrlooqhjdijdvqjklhqjiejvqnjvalnf

“AkujWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsvadjkvqjsixchjcluqjdijvqanjwqjrcab,”jkvqjnq.xqkdqh
iejNi qndfjKvqjkadjrqneqtdcbjkdlccj qeinqjdvqjrlaoi,joidjdixtvlogjdvq
uqbk,jsvlcqjNi qndjtannlqhjvqnjwqkkagqjdijQhoajadjdvqjslohisfjAjgqoqnac
alnjiejkxnrnlkqjaohjgqoxloqjkadlkeatdliojeqccjxriojqpqnbjioqjakjdvqbjkas
dvqjrlaolkdjqodqnfjDvqnqjsakjajkqddclogjhiso,jaohjajrnqpalclogjaln
iejqyrqtdaotbjqpqnbsvqnqfjQhoajsakjajdnlecqjqw annakkqhjadj qlogjdvxk
klgoacqhjixdjeinjdvqjlwrqnlixkjclddcqjsiwao'kjeapinfjKvqjsixchjoidjhanq
dijtviikq,jaohj qggqhjdvadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjsixchjrcqakqjvqnkqcejlo
vqnjkqcqtdliokf

QhoajsakjsvadjkvqjvqnkqcejtaccqhjpqnbjeiohjiejwxkltfjWxkltacjkdnalok,
sqccjnqohqnqh,jvahjajsabjiejqpiulogjrltdxnqkjlojvqnjwlohfjKvqjkiwqdlwqk
cluqhjdijkldjlojdvqjniiwjiejwinologkjsvqojWahawqjNadlgoiccqjrcabqh
injrnatdltqhfjIoqjrlqtqjsvltvjdvadjcahbjrcabqhjQhoajvahjqodldcqh
“Kicldxhqf”jLdjsakjajkvind,jrcalodlpq,jwloinjkdnalofjDvqjoawqjiejdvq
rlqtqjsakjkiwqdvlogjqckq,j xdjkvqjtaccqhjldj“Kicldxhqf”jSvqojkvqjvqanh
ldjdvqnqjtawqj qeinqjvqnjlwagloadliojdvqjelgxnqjiejajwaojkdaohlogj qklhq
ajhqkicadqjnitujiojdvqjkqakvinqfjVqjsakjoauqhfjVlkjaddldxhqjsakjioq
iejvirqcqkkjnqklgoadliojakjvqjciiuqhjdisanhjajhlkdaodj lnhjsloglogjldk
eclgvdjasabjeniwjvlwf

AoidvqnjrlqtqjtaccqhjdijvqnjwlohjajhalodbjbixogjsiwaojtcahjlojaojQwrlnq
giso,jdaulogjwlotlogjhaotlogjkdqrkjakjkvqjtawqjhisojajciogjapqoxq
 qdsqqojdaccjvqhgqkfjAgalo,jaoidvqnjnqwlohqhjvqnjiejtvlchnqojadjrcab,
aohjkdlccjaoidvqnjiejoidvlogjiojqandvj xdjajhqwxnqjcahbjkdniulogjajtadf

DvqjpqnbjelnkdjtvinhkjsvltvjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjkdnxtujxriojdvqjrlaoi
kqodjajuqqojdnqwinjhisojWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjkrloacjticxwofjLdjsakjoid
dvqjelnkdjdlwqjkvqjvahjvqanhjaojandlkdjadjdvqjrlaoifjRqnvarkjldjsakjdvq
elnkdjdlwqjkvqjsakjnqahb,jrqnvarkjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjvqnj qlogjsakjdqwrqnqh
dijdauqjaojlwrnqkkjiejdvqja lhlogjdnxdvf

Kvqjsaldqhjeinjdvqjwadqnlacjrltdxnqkjsvltvjkvqjdvixgvdjsixchjgadvqnjaoh
 camqj qeinqjvqnjlwagloadliofjKvqjsaldqhjlojpalofjKvqjkasjoijrltdxnqk
iejkicldxhq,jiejvirq,jiejcioglog,jinjiejhqkralnfj xdjdvqjpqnbjrakkliok
dvqwkqcpqkjsqnqjanixkqhjsldvlojvqnjkixc,jksablogjld,jcakvlogjld,jakjdvq
sapqkjhalcbj qadjxriojvqnjkrcqohlhj ihbfjKvqjdnqw cqh,jkvqjsakjtviulog,
aohjdvqjdqankj clohqhjvqnf

WahqwilkqccqjvahjelolkvqhfjKvqjanikq,jaohj islogjvqnjkdlee,jciedbj is,
kvqjsqodjasab,jkdirrlogjeinjoqldvqnjdvaoukjoinjarrcaxkqfjAkjkvqjrakkqh
aciogjdvqjgaccqnbjkvqjraddqhjQhoajxriojdvqjkvixchqnf

“Sqcc,jvisjhlhjbixjcluqjwbjwxklt?”jkvqjakuqhfjDvqjbixogjsiwaojsak
xoa cqjdijaoksqn;jkvqjrnqkkqhjdvqjvaohjiejdvqjrlaolkdjtiopxcklpqcbf
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjrqntqlpqhjvqnjagldadliojaohjqpqojvqnjdqankfjKvq
raddqhjvqnjagalojxriojdvqjkvixchqnjakjkvqjkalh:

“BixjanqjdvqjiocbjioqjsindvjrcablogjeinfjDvikqjidvqnk?j av!”jaohjkvq
sqodjkvxeeclogjaohjklhclogjiojhisojdvqjgaccqnbjdisanhjvqnjniiwf

 xdjkvqjsakjwlkdauqoja ixdj“dvikqjidvqnkf”jVqnjrcablogjvahjanixkqhja
eqpqnjiejqodvxklakwfj“Svadjrakklio!”j“Svadjaojandlkd!”j“Ljvapqjacsabk
kalhjoijioqjtixchjrcabjTvirlojcluqjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm!”j“Dvadjcakd
rnqcxhq!j iojHlqx!jLdjkvauqkjajwao!”

Ldjsakjgnislogjcadq,jaohjdvqnqjsakjajgqoqnacjhlkrikldliojdijhlk aohfj xd
kiwqjioq,jrqnvarkjldjsakjNi qnd,jdvixgvdjiejaj advjadjdvadjwbkdltjvixn
aohjxohqnjdvadjwbkdltjwiiof




Y


AdjaccjqpqodkjNi qndjrnirikqhjld,jaohjdvqnqjsakjoidjajhlkkqodlogjpiltqf
Dvqnqjsakjoidjioqj xdjsakjnqahbjdijeiccisjsvqojvqjcqhjdvqjsabfjVqjhlh
oidjcqahjdvqjsab,jvisqpqn,jvqjhlnqtdqhjdvqjsab;jaohjvqjvlwkqcejcildqnqh
 qvlohjsldvjdvqjcipqnk,jsvijvahj qdnabqhjajhlkrikldliojdijclogqnjaoh
vichjdvqwkqcpqkjarandfjVqjsacuqhj qdsqqojdvqw,jsvqdvqnjsldvjwacltlixkjin
wlktvlqpixkjlodqodjsakjoidjsviccbjtcqan,jqpqojdijvlwkqcef

DvqjRiodqcclqnkjaohjNadlgoiccqkjsacuqhjavqah;jdvqjsiwqojcqaologjxriojdvq
anwkjiejdvqlnjvxk aohkfjQhoajtixchjvqanjNi qnd'kjpiltqj qvlohjdvqw,
aohjtixchjkiwqdlwqkjvqanjsvadjvqjkalhfjKvqjsiohqnqhjsvbjvqjhlhjoidjzilo
dvqwfjLdjsakjxocluqjvlwjoidjdifjIejcadqjvqjvahjkiwqdlwqkjvqchjasabjeniw
vqnjeinjaojqodlnqjhab,jnqhix clogjvlkjhqpidliojxriojdvqjoqydjaohjdvq
oqyd,jakjdvixgvjdijwauqjxrjeinjvixnkjdvadjvahj qqojcikdfjKvqjwlkkqhjvlw
dvqjhabkjsvqojkiwqjrnqdqydjkqnpqhjdijdauqjvlwjasabjeniwjvqn,jzxkdjakjioq
wlkkqkjdvqjkxojiojajtcixhbjhabjsldvixdjvaplogjdvixgvdjwxtvja ixdjdvqjkxo
svqojldjsakjkvlologf

Dvqjrqircqjsacuqhjlojclddcqjgnixrkjdisanhjdvqj qatvfjDvqbjdacuqhjaoh
caxgvqh;jkiwqjiejdvqwjkaogfjDvqnqjsakjaj aohjrcablogjhisojadjUcqlo'k
vidqc,jaohjdvqjkdnalokjnqatvqhjdvqwjealodcb,jdqwrqnqhj bjdvqjhlkdaotqf
Dvqnqjsqnqjkdnaogq,jnanqjihinkja niah--ajdaogcqjiejdvqjkqajkwqccjaohjie
sqqhkjaohjhawr,joqs-rcisqhjqandv,jwlogcqhjsldvjdvqjvqapbjrqnexwqjieja
elqchjiejsvldqj cikkiwkjkiwqsvqnqjoqanfj xdjdvqjolgvdjkadjclgvdcbjxrio
dvqjkqajaohjdvqjcaohfjDvqnqjsakjoijsqlgvdjiejhanuoqkk;jdvqnqjsqnqjoi
kvahiskfjDvqjsvldqjclgvdjiejdvqjwiiojvahjeaccqojxriojdvqjsinchjcluqjdvq
wbkdqnbjaohjdvqjkiedoqkkjiejkcqqrf

WikdjiejdvqwjsacuqhjlodijdvqjsadqnjakjdvixgvjlodijajoadlpqjqcqwqodfjDvq
kqajsakj.xlqdjois,jaohjksqccqhjcamlcbjloj niahj lcciskjdvadjwqcdqhjlodi
ioqjaoidvqnjaohjhlhjoidj nqaujqytqrdjxriojdvqj qatvjlojclddcqjeiawb
tnqkdkjdvadjtilcqhj atujcluqjkcis,jsvldqjkqnrqodkf

QhoajvahjaddqwrdqhjaccjkxwwqnjdijcqanojdijkslwfjKvqjvahjnqtqlpqh
lokdnxtdliokjeniwj idvjdvqjwqojaohjsiwqo;jlojkiwqjlokdaotqkjeniwjdvq
tvlchnqofjNi qndjvahjrxnkxqhjajkbkdqwjiejcqkkiokjacwikdjhalcb;jaohjvq
sakjoqancbjadjdvqjrilodjiejhlktixnagqwqodjlojnqaclmlogjdvqjexdlcldbjie
vlkjqeeindkfjAjtqndalojxogipqnoa cqjhnqahjvxogja ixdjvqnjsvqojlojdvq
sadqn,jxocqkkjdvqnqjsakjajvaohjoqanj bjdvadjwlgvdjnqatvjixdjaohjnqakkxnq
vqnf

 xdjdvadjolgvdjkvqjsakjcluqjdvqjclddcqjdiddqnlog,jkdxw clog,jtcxdtvlog
tvlch,jsvijiejajkxhhqojnqaclmqkjldkjrisqnk,jaohjsacukjeinjdvqjelnkdjdlwq
acioq,j ichcbjaohjsldvjipqn-tioelhqotqfjKvqjtixchjvapqjkvixdqhjeinjzibf
Kvqjhlhjkvixdjeinjzib,jakjsldvjajksqqrlogjkdniuqjinjdsijkvqjcledqhjvqn
 ihbjdijdvqjkxneatqjiejdvqjsadqnf

Ajeqqclogjiejqyxcdadliojipqndiiujvqn,jakjlejkiwqjrisqnjiejklgoleltaod
lwrindjvahj qqojglpqojvqnjdijtiodnicjdvqjsinulogjiejvqnj ihbjaohjvqn
kixcfjKvqjgnqsjhanlogjaohjnqtucqkk,jipqnqkdlwadlogjvqnjkdnqogdvfjKvq
saodqhjdijkslwjeanjixd,jsvqnqjoijsiwaojvahjksxwj qeinqf

Vqnjxociiuqh-einjatvlqpqwqodjsakjdvqjkx zqtdjiejsiohqn,jarrcaxkq,jaoh
ahwlnadliofjQatvjioqjtiognadxcadqhjvlwkqcejdvadjvlkjkrqtlacjdqatvlogk
vahjattiwrclkvqhjdvlkjhqklnqhjqohf

“Visjqakbjldjlk!”jkvqjdvixgvdfj“Ldjlkjoidvlog,”jkvqjkalhjacixh;j“svbjhlh
Ljoidjhlktipqnj qeinqjdvadjldjsakjoidvlogfjDvloujiejdvqjdlwqjLjvapqjcikd
krcakvlogja ixdjcluqjaj a b!”jKvqjsixchjoidjzilojdvqjgnixrkjlojdvqln
krindkjaohj ixdk,j xdjlodiyltadqhjsldvjvqnjoqscbjtio.xqnqhjrisqn,jkvq
ksawjixdjacioqf

Kvqjdxnoqhjvqnjeatqjkqasanhjdijgadvqnjlojaojlwrnqkkliojiejkratqjaoh
kicldxhq,jsvltvjdvqjpakdjqyraokqjiejsadqn,jwqqdlogjaohjwqcdlogjsldvjdvq
wiiocldjkub,jtiopqbqhjdijvqnjqytldqhjeaotbfjAkjkvqjksawjkvqjkqqwqhjdij q
nqatvlogjixdjeinjdvqjxoclwldqhjlojsvltvjdijcikqjvqnkqcef

Iotqjkvqjdxnoqhjaohjciiuqhjdisanhjdvqjkvinq,jdisanhjdvqjrqircqjkvqjvah
cqedjdvqnqfjKvqjvahjoidjgioqjaobjgnqadjhlkdaotq--dvadjlk,jsvadjsixch
vapqj qqojajgnqadjhlkdaotqjeinjaojqyrqnlqotqhjkslwwqnfj xdjdijvqn
xoattxkdiwqhjplkliojdvqjkdnqdtvjiejsadqnj qvlohjvqnjakkxwqhjdvqjakrqtd
iejaj annlqnjsvltvjvqnjxoalhqhjkdnqogdvjsixchjoqpqnj qja cqjdijipqntiwqf

Aj.xltujplkliojiejhqadvjkwidqjvqnjkixc,jaohjeinjajkqtiohjiejdlwq
arraccqhjaohjqoeqq cqhjvqnjkqokqkfj xdj bjaojqeeindjkvqjnacclqhjvqn
kdaggqnlogjeatxcdlqkjaohjwaoagqhjdijnqgalojdvqjcaohf

Kvqjwahqjoijwqodliojiejvqnjqotixodqnjsldvjhqadvjaohjvqnjecakvjiejdqnnin,
qytqrdjdijkabjdijvqnjvxk aoh,j“LjdvixgvdjLjkvixchjvapqjrqnlkvqhjixd
dvqnqjacioqf”

“Bixjsqnqjoidjkijpqnbjean,jwbjhqan;jLjsakjsadtvlogjbix,”jvqjdichjvqnf

Qhoajsqodjadjiotqjdijdvqj adv-vixkq,jaohjkvqjvahjrxdjiojvqnjhnbjtcidvqk
aohjsakjnqahbjdijnqdxnojviwqj qeinqjdvqjidvqnkjvahjcqedjdvqjsadqnfjKvq
kdandqhjdijsacujasabjacioqfjDvqbjaccjtaccqhjdijvqnjaohjkvixdqhjdijvqnf
Kvqjsapqhjajhlkkqodlogjvaoh,jaohjsqodjio,jrablogjoijexndvqnjvqqhjdi
dvqlnjnqoqsqhjtnlqkjsvltvjkixgvdjdijhqdalojvqnf

“KiwqdlwqkjLjawjdqwrdqhjdijdvloujdvadjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjlkjtarnltlixk,”
jkalhjWahawqjCq nxo,jsvijsakjawxklogjvqnkqcejlwwqokqcbjaohjeqanqhjdvad
Qhoa'kja nxrdjhqrandxnqjwlgvdjrxdjaojqohjdijdvqjrcqakxnqf

“Ljuoisjkvqjlk,”jakkqodqhjWnfjRiodqcclqn;j“kiwqdlwqk,joidjiedqof”

Qhoajvahjoidjdnapqnkqhjaj.xandqnjiejdvqjhlkdaotqjiojvqnjsabjviwqj qeinq
kvqjsakjipqndauqoj bjNi qndf

“HlhjbixjdvloujLjsakjaenalh?”jkvqjakuqhjvlw,jsldvixdjajkvahqjie
aooibaotqf

“Oi;jLjuoqsjbixjsqnqo'djaenalhf”

“Dvqojsvbjhlhjbixjtiwq?jSvbjhlho'djbixjkdabjixdjdvqnqjsldvjdvqjidvqnk?”

“Ljoqpqnjdvixgvdjiejldf”

“Dvixgvdjiejsvad?”

“IejaobdvlogfjSvadjhleeqnqotqjhiqkjldjwauq?”

“L'wjpqnbjdlnqh,”jkvqjxddqnqh,jtiwrcalologcbf

“Ljuoisjbixjanqf”

“Bixjhio'djuoisjaobdvlogja ixdjldfjSvbjkvixchjbixjuois?jLjoqpqnjsakjki
qyvaxkdqhjlojwbjcleqfj xdjldjlko'djxorcqakaodfjAjdvixkaohjqwidliokjvapq
ksqrdjdvnixgvjwqjdi-olgvdfjLjhio'djtiwrnqvqohjvacejiejdvqwfjHio'djwloh
svadjL'wjkablog;jLjawjzxkdjdvloulogjacixhfjLjsiohqnjlejLjkvaccjqpqn
 qjkdlnnqhjagalojakjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjrcablogjwipqhjwqjdi-olgvdfjL
siohqnjlejaobjolgvdjiojqandvjslccjqpqnjagaloj qjcluqjdvlkjioqfjLdjlk
cluqjajolgvdjlojajhnqawfjDvqjrqircqja ixdjwqjanqjcluqjkiwqjxotaoob,
vace-vxwaoj qlogkfjDvqnqjwxkdj qjkrlnldkja niahjdi-olgvdf”

“Dvqnqjanq,”jsvlkrqnqhjNi qnd,j“Hlho'djbixjuoisjdvlkjsakjdvq
dsqodb-qlgvdvjiejAxgxkd?”

“Dvqjdsqodb-qlgvdvjiejAxgxkd?”

“BqkfjIojdvqjdsqodb-qlgvdvjiejAxgxkd,jadjdvqjvixnjiejwlholgvd,jaohjle
dvqjwiiojlkjkvlolog--dvqjwiiojwxkdj qjkvlolog--ajkrlnldjdvadjvakjvaxodqh
dvqkqjkvinqkjeinjagqkjnlkqkjxrjeniwjdvqjGxcefjSldvjldkjisojrqoqdnadlog
plkliojdvqjkrlnldjkqqukjkiwqjioqjwindacjsindvbjdijvichjvlw
tiwraob,jsindvbjiej qlogjqyacdqhjeinjajeqsjvixnkjlodijnqacwkjiejdvq
kqwl-tqcqkdlackfjVlkjkqantvjvakjacsabkjvldvqndij qqojenxldcqkk,jaohjvq
vakjkxouj atu,jhlkvqandqoqh,jlodijdvqjkqafj xdjdi-olgvdjvqjeixohjWnkf
RiodqcclqnfjRqnvarkjvqjslccjoqpqnjsviccbjnqcqakqjvqnjeniwjdvqjkrqccf
Rqnvarkjkvqjslccjoqpqnjagalojkxeeqnjajriin,jxosindvbjqandvclogjdijsacu
lojdvqjkvahisjiejvqnjhlploqjrnqkqotqf”

“Hio'dj aodqnjwq,”jkvqjkalh,jsixohqhjadjsvadjarrqanqhjdij qjvlk
eclrraotbfjVqjhlhjoidjwlohjdvqjqodnqadb,j xdjdvqjdioqjsldvjldkjhqcltadq
oidqjiejradvikjsakjcluqjajnqrniatvfjVqjtixchjoidjqyrcalo;jvqjtixchjoid
dqccjvqnjdvadjvqjvahjrqoqdnadqhjvqnjwiihjaohjxohqnkdiihfjVqjkalh
oidvlogjqytqrdjdijieeqnjvqnjvlkjanw,jein,j bjvqnjisojahwlkklio,jkvq
sakjqyvaxkdqhfjKvqjvahj qqojsaculogjacioqjsldvjvqnjanwkjvaoglogjclwr,
cqddlogjvqnjsvldqjkulndkjdnalcjaciogjdvqjhqsbjradvfjKvqjdiiujvlkjanw,
 xdjkvqjhlhjoidjcqaojxriojldfjKvqjcqdjvqnjvaohjclqjclkdcqkkcb,jakjdvixgv
vqnjdvixgvdkjsqnqjqckqsvqnq--kiwqsvqnqjlojahpaotqjiejvqnj ihb,jaohjkvq
sakjkdnlplogjdijipqndauqjdvqwf

Ni qndjakklkdqhjvqnjlodijdvqjvawwitujsvltvjksxogjeniwjdvqjrikdj qeinq
vqnjhiinjixdjdijdvqjdnxoujiejajdnqqf

“SlccjbixjkdabjixdjvqnqjaohjsaldjeinjWnfjRiodqcclqn?”jvqjakuqhf

“L'ccjkdabjixdjvqnqfjGiih-olgvdf”

“KvaccjLjgqdjbixjajrlccis?”

“Dvqnq'kjioqjvqnq,”jkvqjkalh,jeqqclogja ixd,jeinjdvqbjsqnqjlojdvq
kvahisf

“Ldjwxkdj qjkilcqh;jdvqjtvlchnqojvapqj qqojdxw clogjldja ixdf”

“Oijwaddqnf”jAohjvaplogjhlktipqnqhjdvqjrlccis,jkvqjahzxkdqhjldj qoqadv
vqnjvqahfjKvqjqydqohqhjvqnkqcejlojdvqjvawwitujsldvjajhqqrj nqadvjie
nqclqefjKvqjsakjoidjajkxrqntlclixkjinjaojipqn-halodbjsiwaofjKvqjsakjoid
wxtvjglpqojdijnqtclologjlojdvqjvawwitu,jaohjsvqojkvqjhlhjkijldjsakjsldv
oijtad-cluqjkxggqkdliojiejpicxrdxixkjqakq,j xdjsldvjaj qoqeltqodjnqrikq
svltvjkqqwqhjdijlopahqjvqnjsvicqj ihbf

“KvaccjLjkdabjsldvjbixjdlccjWnfjRiodqcclqnjtiwqk?”jakuqhjNi qnd,jkqadlog
vlwkqcejiojdvqjixdqnjqhgqjiejioqjiejdvqjkdqrkjaohjdaulogjvichjiejdvq
vawwitujnirqjsvltvjsakjeakdqoqhjdijdvqjrikdf

“LejbixjslkvfjHio'djkslogjdvqjvawwitufjSlccjbixjgqdjwbjsvldqjkvascjsvltv
Ljcqedjiojdvqjslohis-klccjipqnjadjdvqjvixkq?”

“Anqjbixjtvlccb?”

“Oi;j xdjLjkvaccj qjrnqkqodcbf”

“Rnqkqodcb?”jvqjcaxgvqhfj“Hijbixjuoisjsvadjdlwqjldjlk?jVisjciogjanqjbix
gilogjdijkdabjixdjvqnq?”

“Ljhio'djuoisfjSlccjbixjgqdjdvqjkvasc?”

“IejtixnkqjLjslcc,”jvqjkalh,jnlklogfjVqjsqodjipqnjdijdvqjvixkq,jsaculog
aciogjdvqjgnakkfjKvqjsadtvqhjvlkjelgxnqjrakkjlojaohjixdjiejdvqjkdnlrkjie
wiioclgvdfjLdjsakjrakdjwlholgvdfjLdjsakjpqnbj.xlqdf

SvqojvqjnqdxnoqhjsldvjdvqjkvascjkvqjdiiujldjaohjuqrdjldjlojvqnjvaohfjKvq
hlhjoidjrxdjldjanixohjvqnf

“HlhjbixjkabjLjkvixchjkdabjdlccjWnfjRiodqcclqnjtawqj atu?”

“Ljkalhjbixjwlgvdjlejbixjslkvqhjdif”

Vqjkqadqhjvlwkqcejagalojaohjniccqhjajtlganqddq,jsvltvjvqjkwiuqhjlo
klcqotqfjOqldvqnjhlhjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjkrqaufjOijwxcdldxhqjiejsinhk
tixchjvapqj qqojwinqjklgoleltaodjdvaojdvikqjwiwqodkjiejklcqotq,jinjwinq
rnqgoaodjsldvjdvqjelnkd-eqcdjdvni  logkjiejhqklnqf

Svqojdvqjpiltqkjiejdvqj advqnkjsqnqjvqanhjarrniatvlog,jNi qndjkalh
giih-olgvdfjKvqjhlhjoidjaoksqnjvlwfjVqjdvixgvdjkvqjsakjakcqqrfjAgalo
kvqjsadtvqhjvlkjelgxnqjrakkjlojaohjixdjiejdvqjkdnlrkjiejwiioclgvdjakjvq
sacuqhjasabf





YL


“Svadjanqjbixjhilogjixdjvqnq,jQhoa?jLjdvixgvdjLjkvixchjelohjbixjloj qh,”
jkalhjvqnjvxk aoh,jsvqojvqjhlktipqnqhjvqnjcblogjdvqnqfjVqjvahjsacuqhjxr
sldvjWahawqjCq nxojaohjcqedjvqnjadjdvqjvixkqfjVlkjsleqjhlhjoidjnqrcbf

“Anqjbixjakcqqr?”jvqjakuqh,j qohlogjhisojtcikqjdijciiujadjvqnf

“Oif”jVqnjqbqkjgcqawqhj nlgvdjaohjlodqokq,jsldvjoijkcqqrbjkvahisk,jak
dvqbjciiuqhjlodijvlkf

“Hijbixjuoisjldjlkjrakdjioqji'tcitu?jTiwqjio,”jaohjvqjwixodqhjdvqjkdqrk
aohjsqodjlodijdvqlnjniiwf

“Qhoa!”jtaccqhjWnfjRiodqcclqnjeniwjsldvlo,jaedqnjajeqsjwiwqodkjvahjgioq
 bf

“Hio'djsaldjeinjwq,”jkvqjaoksqnqhfjVqjdvnxkdjvlkjvqahjdvnixgvjdvqjhiinf

“Bixjslccjdauqjtichjixdjdvqnq,”jvqjkalh,jlnnlda cbfj“Svadjeiccbjlkjdvlk?
Svbjhio'djbixjtiwqjlo?”

“Ldjlko'djtich;jLjvapqjwbjkvascf”

“Dvqjwik.xldiqkjslccjhqpixnjbixf”

“Dvqnqjanqjoijwik.xldiqkf”

Kvqjvqanhjvlwjwiplogja ixdjdvqjniiw;jqpqnbjkixohjlohltadlogjlwradlqotq
aohjlnnldadliofjAoidvqnjdlwqjkvqjsixchjvapqjgioqjlojadjvlkjnq.xqkdfjKvq
sixch,jdvnixgvjva ld,jvapqjblqchqhjdijvlkjhqklnq;joidjsldvjaobjkqokqjie
kx wlkkliojinji qhlqotqjdijvlkjtiwrqcclogjslkvqk,j xdjxodvloulogcb,jak
sqjsacu,jwipq,jkld,jkdaoh,jgijdvnixgvjdvqjhalcbjdnqahwlccjiejdvqjcleq
svltvjvakj qqojrindlioqhjixdjdijxkf

“Qhoa,jhqan,janqjbixjoidjtiwlogjlojkiio?”jvqjakuqhjagalo,jdvlkjdlwq
eiohcb,jsldvjajoidqjiejqodnqadbf

“Oi;jLjawjgilogjdijkdabjixdjvqnqf”

“Dvlkjlkjwinqjdvaojeiccb,”jvqj cxndqhjixdfj“Ljtao'djrqnwldjbixjdijkdab
ixdjdvqnqjaccjolgvdfjBixjwxkdjtiwqjlojdvqjvixkqjlokdaodcbf”

Sldvjajsnldvlogjwidliojkvqjkqddcqhjvqnkqcejwinqjkqtxnqcbjlojdvqjvawwituf
Kvqjrqntqlpqhjdvadjvqnjslccjvahj camqhjxr,jkdx  inojaohjnqklkdaodfjKvq
tixchjoidjadjdvadjwiwqodjvapqjhioqjidvqnjdvaojhqolqhjaohjnqklkdqhfjKvq
siohqnqhjlejvqnjvxk aohjvahjqpqnjkriuqojdijvqnjcluqjdvadj qeinq,jaohjle
kvqjvahjkx wlddqhjdijvlkjtiwwaohfjIejtixnkqjkvqjvah;jkvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvad
kvqjvahfj xdjkvqjtixchjoidjnqaclmqjsvbjinjvisjkvqjkvixchjvapqjblqchqh,
eqqclogjakjkvqjdvqojhlhf

“Cqiotq,jgijdij qh,”jkvqjkalh,j“LjwqaojdijkdabjixdjvqnqfjLjhio'djslkvjdi
gijlo,jaohjLjhio'djlodqohjdifjHio'djkrqaujdijwqjcluqjdvadjagalo;jLjkvacc
oidjaoksqnjbixf”

WnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjrnqranqhjeinj qh,j xdjvqjkclrrqhjiojaojqydnajganwqodf
Vqjirqoqhjaj iddcqjiejsloq,jiejsvltvjvqjuqrdjajkwaccjaohjkqcqtdjkxrrcb
lojaj xeeqdjiejvlkjisofjVqjhnaoujajgcakkjiejdvqjsloqjaohjsqodjixdjiojdvq
gaccqnbjaohjieeqnqhjajgcakkjdijvlkjsleqfjKvqjhlhjoidjslkvjaobfjVqjhnqs
xrjdvqjnituqn,jvilkdqhjvlkjkclrrqnqhjeqqdjiojdvqjnalc,jaohjrnitqqhqh
dijkwiuqjajtlganfjVqjkwiuqhjdsijtlgank;jdvqojvqjsqodjloklhqjaohjhnaou
aoidvqnjgcakkjiejsloqfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjagalojhqtcloqhjdijattqrdjajgcakk
svqojldjsakjieeqnqhjdijvqnfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjiotqjwinqjkqadqhjvlwkqcejsldv
qcqpadqhjeqqd,jaohjaedqnjajnqakioa cqjlodqnpacjiejdlwqjkwiuqhjkiwqjwinq
tlgankf

Qhoaj qgaojdijeqqcjcluqjioqjsvijasauqokjgnahxaccbjixdjiejajhnqaw,ja
hqcltlixk,jgnidqk.xq,jlwrikkl cqjhnqaw,jdijeqqcjagalojdvqjnqacldlqk
rnqkklogjlodijvqnjkixcfjDvqjrvbkltacjoqqhjeinjkcqqrj qgaojdijipqndauq
vqn;jdvqjqyx qnaotqjsvltvjvahjkxkdaloqhjaohjqyacdqhjvqnjkrlnldjcqedjvqn
vqcrcqkkjaohjblqchlogjdijdvqjtiohldliokjsvltvjtnishqhjvqnjlof

Dvqjkdlccqkdjvixnjiejdvqjolgvdjvahjtiwq,jdvqjvixnj qeinqjhaso,jsvqojdvq
sinchjkqqwkjdijvichjldkj nqadvfjDvqjwiiojvxogjcis,jaohjvahjdxnoqhjeniw
klcpqnjdijtirrqnjlojdvqjkcqqrlogjkubfjDvqjichjiscjoijciogqnjviidqh,jaoh
dvqjsadqn-iaukjvahjtqakqhjdijwiaojakjdvqbj qodjdvqlnjvqahkf

Qhoajanikq,jtnawrqhjeniwjcblogjkijciogjaohjkdlccjlojdvqjvawwitufjKvq
diddqnqhjxrjdvqjkdqrk,jtcxdtvlogjeqq cbjadjdvqjrikdj qeinqjrakklogjlodi
dvqjvixkqf

“Anqjbixjtiwlogjlo,jCqiotq?”jkvqjakuqh,jdxnologjvqnjeatqjdisanhjvqn
vxk aohf

“Bqk,jhqan,”jvqjaoksqnqh,jsldvjajgcaotqjeiccislogjajwlkdbjrxeejiejkwiuqf
“ZxkdjakjkiiojakjLjvapqjelolkvqhjwbjtlganf”




YLL


Kvqjkcqrdj xdjajeqsjvixnkfjDvqbjsqnqjdnix cqhjaohjeqpqnlkvjvixnk,
hlkdxn qhjsldvjhnqawkjdvadjsqnqjlodaogl cq,jdvadjqcxhqhjvqn,jcqaplog
iocbjaojlwrnqkkliojxriojvqnjvace-asauqoqhjkqokqkjiejkiwqdvlog
xoaddaloa cqfjKvqjsakjxrjaohjhnqkkqhjlojdvqjtiicjiejdvqjqancbjwinologf
DvqjalnjsakjloplginadlogjaohjkdqahlqhjkiwqsvadjvqnjeatxcdlqkfjVisqpqn,
kvqjsakjoidjkqqulogjnqenqkvwqodjinjvqcrjeniwjaobjkixntq,jqldvqnjqydqnoac
injeniwjsldvlofjKvqjsakj clohcbjeiccislogjsvadqpqnjlwrxckqjwipqhjvqn,
akjlejkvqjvahjrcatqhjvqnkqcejlojaclqojvaohkjeinjhlnqtdlio,jaohjenqqhjvqn
kixcjiejnqkriokl lcldbf

Wikdjiejdvqjrqircqjadjdvadjqancbjvixnjsqnqjkdlccjloj qhjaohjakcqqrf
Ajeqs,jsvijlodqohqhjdijgijipqnjdijdvqjTvqolqnqjeinjwakk,jsqnqjwiplog
a ixdfjDvqjcipqnk,jsvijvahjcalhjdvqlnjrcaokjdvqjolgvdj qeinq,jsqnq
acnqahbjkdnicclogjdisanhjdvqjsvanefjDvqjcahbjloj catu,jsldvjvqnjKxohab
rnabqn- iiu,jpqcpqdjaohjgich-tcakrqh,jaohjvqnjKxohabjklcpqnj qahk,jsak
eiccislogjdvqwjadjoijgnqadjhlkdaotqfjIchjWioklqxnjEanlpacjsakjxr,jaoh
sakjwinqjdvaojvacejlotcloqhjdijhijaobdvlogjdvadjkxggqkdqhjldkqcefjVq
rxdjiojvlkj lgjkdnasjvad,jaohjdaulogjvlkjxw nqccajeniwjdvqjkdaohjlojdvq
vacc,jeiccisqhjdvqjcahbjloj catu,joqpqnjipqndaulogjvqnf

DvqjclddcqjoqgnijglncjsvijsinuqhjWahawqjCq nxo'kjkqslog-watvloqjsak
ksqqrlogjdvqjgaccqnlqkjsldvjciog,ja kqod-wlohqhjkdniuqkjiejdvqj niiwf
QhoajkqodjvqnjxrjlodijdvqjvixkqjdijasauqojNi qndf

“DqccjvlwjLjawjgilogjdijdvqjTvqolqnqfjDvqj iadjlkjnqahb;jdqccjvlwjdi
vxnnbf”

VqjvahjkiiojziloqhjvqnfjKvqjvahjoqpqnjkqodjeinjvlwj qeinqfjKvqjvahjoqpqn
akuqhjeinjvlwfjKvqjvahjoqpqnjkqqwqhjdijsaodjvlwj qeinqfjKvqjhlhjoid
arrqanjtioktlixkjdvadjkvqjvahjhioqjaobdvlogjxoxkxacjlojtiwwaohlog
vlkjrnqkqotqfjVqjsakjarranqodcbjq.xaccbjxotioktlixkjiejaobdvlog
qydnainhloanbjlojdvqjkldxadliofj xdjvlkjeatqjsakjkxeexkqhjsldvjaj.xlqd
gcisjsvqojvqjwqdjvqnf

Dvqbjsqodjdigqdvqnj atujdijdvqjuldtvqojdijhnloujtieeqqfjDvqnqjsakjoi
dlwqjdijsaldjeinjaobjoltqdbjiejkqnpltqfjDvqbjkdiihjixdklhqjdvqjslohis
aohjdvqjtiiujrakkqhjdvqwjdvqlnjtieeqqjaohjajnicc,jsvltvjdvqbjhnaoujaoh
adqjeniwjdvqjslohis-klccfjQhoajkalhjldjdakdqhjgiihf

KvqjvahjoidjdvixgvdjiejtieeqqjoinjiejaobdvlogfjVqjdichjvqnjvqjvahjiedqo
oidltqhjdvadjkvqjcatuqhjeinqdvixgvdf

“Sako'djldjqoixgvjdijdvloujiejgilogjdijdvqjTvqolqnqjaohjsaulogjbixjxr?”
jkvqjcaxgvqhfj“HijLjvapqjdijdvloujiejqpqnbdvlog?--akjCqiotqjkabkjsvqo
vq'kjlojaj ahjvxwinfjLjhio'dj cawqjvlw;jvq'hjoqpqnj qjlojaj ahjvxwinjle
ldjsqnqo'djeinjwqf”

DvqbjdiiujajkvindjtxdjatnikkjdvqjkaohkfjAdjajhlkdaotqjdvqbjtixchjkqq
dvqjtxnlixkjrnitqkkliojwiplogjdisanhjdvqjsvane--dvqjcipqnk,jkvixchqnjdi
kvixchqn,jtnqqrlog;jdvqjcahbjloj catu,jgalologjkdqahlcbjxriojdvqw;jich
WioklqxnjEanlpac,jciklogjgnixohjlotvj bjlotv,jaohjajbixogj anqeiidqh
Kraolkvjglnc,jsldvjajnqhjuqntvlqejiojvqnjvqahjaohjaj akuqdjiojvqnjanw,
 nloglogjxrjdvqjnqanf

Ni qndjuoqsjdvqjglnc,jaohjvqjdacuqhjdijvqnjajclddcqjlojdvqj iadfjOijioq
rnqkqodjxohqnkdiihjsvadjdvqbjkalhfjVqnjoawqjsakjWanlq.xldafjKvqjvahja
nixoh,jkcb,jrl.xaodjeatqjaohjrnqddbj catujqbqkfjVqnjvaohkjsqnqjkwacc,
aohjkvqjuqrdjdvqwjeichqhjipqnjdvqjvaohcqjiejvqnj akuqdfjVqnjeqqdjsqnq
 niahjaohjtiankqfjKvqjhlhjoidjkdnlpqjdijvlhqjdvqwfjQhoajciiuqhjadjvqn
eqqd,jaohjoidltqhjdvqjkaohjaohjkclwqj qdsqqojvqnj nisojdiqkf

 qaxhqcqdjgnxw cqhj qtaxkqjWanlq.xldajsakjdvqnq,jdaulogjxrjkijwxtvjniiwf
LojnqacldbjvqjsakjaooibqhjadjvaplogjichjWioklqxnjEanlpac,jsvijtioklhqnqh
vlwkqcejdvqj qddqnjkalcinjiejdvqjdsifj xdjvqjsixchjoidj.xannqcjsldv
kijichjajwaojakjWioklqxnjEanlpac,jkijvqj.xannqcqhjsldvjWanlq.xldafjDvq
glncjsakjhqrnqtadinbjadjioqjwiwqod,jarrqaclogjdijNi qndfjKvqjsakjkaxtb
dvqjoqyd,jwiplogjvqnjvqahjxrjaohjhiso,jwaulogj“qbqk”jadjNi qndjaoh
waulogj“wixdvk”jadj qaxhqcqdf

DvqjcipqnkjsqnqjaccjacioqfjDvqbjkasjoidvlog,jdvqbjvqanhjoidvlogfjDvq
cahbjloj catujsakjtixodlogjvqnj qahkjeinjdvqjdvlnhjdlwqfjIchjWioklqxn
Eanlpacjdacuqhjlotqkkaodcbjiejsvadjvqjuoqsja ixdjvaohclogjaj iad,jaohjie
svadj qaxhqcqdjhlhjoidjuoisjiojdvqjkawqjkx zqtdf

QhoajcluqhjldjaccfjKvqjciiuqhjWanlq.xldajxrjaohjhiso,jeniwjvqnjxgcb
 nisojdiqkjdijvqnjrnqddbj catujqbqk,jaohj atujagalof

“Svbjhiqkjkvqjciiujadjwqjcluqjdvad?”jlo.xlnqhjdvqjglncjiejNi qndf

“Wab qjkvqjdvloukjbixjanqjrnqddbfjKvaccjLjakujvqn?”

“OifjLkjkvqjbixnjksqqdvqand?”

“Kvq'kjajwannlqhjcahb,jaohjvakjdsijtvlchnqof”

“Iv!jsqcc!jEnaotlktijnaojasabjsldvjKbcpaoi'kjsleq,jsvijvahjeixn
tvlchnqofjDvqbjdiiujaccjvlkjwioqbjaohjioqjiejdvqjtvlchnqojaohjkdicqjvlk
 iadf”

“Kvxdjxr!”

“Hiqkjkvqjxohqnkdaoh?”

“Iv,jvxkv!”

“Anqjdvikqjdsijwannlqhjipqnjdvqnq--cqaologjiojqatvjidvqn?”

“Iejtixnkqjoid,”jcaxgvqhjNi qndf

“Iejtixnkqjoid,”jqtviqhjWanlq.xlda,jsldvjajkqnlixk,jtioelnwadinbj i jie
dvqjvqahf

Dvqjkxojsakjvlgvjxrjaohj qgloologjdij ldqfjDvqjksledj nqqmqjkqqwqh
dijQhoajdij xnbjdvqjkdlogjiejldjlodijdvqjrinqkjiejvqnjeatqjaohjvaohkf
Ni qndjvqchjvlkjxw nqccajipqnjvqnfjAkjdvqbjsqodjtxddlogjklhqslkqjdvnixgv
dvqjsadqn,jdvqjkalckj qcclqhjdaxd,jsldvjdvqjslohjelcclogjaohjipqnecislog
dvqwfjIchjWioklqxnjEanlpacjcaxgvqhjkanhioltaccbjadjkiwqdvlogjakjvq
ciiuqhjadjdvqjkalck,jaohj qaxhqcqdjksinqjadjdvqjichjwaojxohqnjvlk
 nqadvf

Kalclogjatnikkjdvqj abjdijdvqjTvqolqnqjTawloaha,jQhoajeqcdjakjlejkvq
sqnqj qlogj inoqjasabjeniwjkiwqjaotvinagqjsvltvjvahjvqchjvqnjeakd,jsvikq
tvalokjvahj qqojciikqolog--vahjkoarrqhjdvqjolgvdj qeinqjsvqojdvqjwbkdlt
krlnldjsakja niah,jcqaplogjvqnjenqqjdijhnledjsvldvqnkiqpqnjkvqjtvikq
dijkqdjvqnjkalckfjNi qndjkriuqjdijvqnjlotqkkaodcb;jvqjoijciogqnjoidltqh
Wanlq.xldafjDvqjglncjvahjkvnlwrkjlojvqnj aw iij akuqdfjDvqbjsqnqjtipqnqh
sldvjKraolkvjwikkfjKvqj qadjdvqjwikkjhisojlwradlqodcb,jaohjwxddqnqhjdi
vqnkqcejkxccqocbf

“CqdjxkjgijdijGnaohqjDqnnqjdi-winnis?”jkalhjNi qndjlojajcisjpiltqf

“Svadjkvaccjsqjhijdvqnq?”

“Tclw jxrjdvqjvlccjdijdvqjichjeindjaohjciiujadjdvqjclddcqjsnlggclogjgich
koauqk,jaohjsadtvjdvqjclmanhkjkxojdvqwkqcpqkf”

KvqjgamqhjasabjdisanhjGnaohqjDqnnqjaohjdvixgvdjkvqjsixchjcluqjdij q
acioqjdvqnqjsldvjNi qnd,jlojdvqjkxo,jclkdqologjdijdvqjitqao'kjnianjaoh
sadtvlogjdvqjkclwbjclmanhkjsnldvqjlojaohjixdjawiogjdvqjnxlokjiejdvqjich
eindf

“Aohjdvqjoqydjhabjinjdvqjoqydjsqjtaojkalcjdijdvqj abixj nxcis,”jvqjsqod
iof

“Svadjkvaccjsqjhijdvqnq?”

“Aobdvlog--takdj aldjeinjelkvf”

“Oi;jsq'ccjgij atujdijGnaohqjDqnnqfjCqdjdvqjelkvjacioqf”

“Sq'ccjgijsvqnqpqnjbixjcluq,”jvqjkalhfj“L'ccjvapqjDiolqjtiwqjipqnjaoh
vqcrjwqjradtvjaohjdnlwjwbj iadfjSqjkvaccjoidjoqqhj qaxhqcqdjoinjaobjioqf
Anqjbixjaenalhjiejdvqjrlnigxq?”

“Iv,joif”

“DvqojL'ccjdauqjbixjkiwqjolgvdjlojdvqjrlnigxqjsvqojdvqjwiiojkvloqkf
Wab qjbixnjGxcejkrlnldjslccjsvlkrqnjdijbixjlojsvltvjiejdvqkqjlkcaohkjdvq
dnqakxnqkjanqjvlhhqo--hlnqtdjbixjdijdvqjpqnbjkrid,jrqnvarkf”

“Aohjlojajhabjsqjkvixchj qjnltv!”jkvqjcaxgvqhfj“L'hjglpqjldjaccjdijbix,
dvqjrlnadqjgichjaohjqpqnbj ldjiejdnqakxnqjsqjtixchjhlgjxrfjLjdvloujbix
sixchjuoisjvisjdijkrqohjldfjRlnadqjgichjlko'djajdvlogjdij qjvianhqhjin
xdlclmqhfjLdjlkjkiwqdvlogjdijk.xaohqnjaohjdvnisjdijdvqjeixnjslohk,jein
dvqjexojiejkqqlogjdvqjgichqojkrqtukjecbf”

“Sq'hjkvanqjld,jaohjktaddqnjldjdigqdvqn,”jvqjkalhfjVlkjeatqjecxkvqhf

Dvqbjaccjsqodjdigqdvqnjxrjdijdvqj.xalodjclddcqjGidvltjtvxntvjiejIxnjCahb
iejCixnhqk,jgcqawlogjaccj nisojaohjbqccisjsldvjralodjlojdvqjkxo'kjgcanqf

Iocbj qaxhqcqdjnqwaloqhj qvloh,jdlouqnlogjadjvlkj iad,jaohjWanlq.xlda
sacuqhjasabjsldvjvqnj akuqdjiejkvnlwrk,jtakdlogjajciiujiejtvlchlkvjlcc
vxwinjaohjnqrniatvjadjNi qndjeniwjdvqjtinoqnjiejvqnjqbqf




YLLL


AjeqqclogjiejirrnqkkliojaohjhniskloqkkjipqntawqjQhoajhxnlogjdvqjkqnpltqf
Vqnjvqahj qgaojdijatvq,jaohjdvqjclgvdkjiojdvqjacdanjksabqhj qeinq
vqnjqbqkfjAoidvqnjdlwqjkvqjwlgvdjvapqjwahqjaojqeeindjdijnqgalojvqn
tiwrikxnq;j xdjvqnjioqjdvixgvdjsakjdij.xldjdvqjkdleclogjadwikrvqnqjie
dvqjtvxntvjaohjnqatvjdvqjirqojalnfjKvqjanikq,jtclw logjipqnjNi qnd'k
eqqdjsldvjajwxddqnqhjaricigbfjIchjWioklqxnjEanlpac,jecxnnlqh,jtxnlixk,
kdiihjxr,j xdjxriojkqqlogjdvadjNi qndjvahjeiccisqhjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jvq
kaouj atujlodijvlkjkqadfjVqjsvlkrqnqhjaojaoylixkjlo.xlnbjiejdvqjcahbjlo
 catu,jsvijhlhjoidjoidltqjvlwjinjnqrcb,j xdjuqrdjvqnjqbqkjeakdqoqhjxrio
dvqjragqkjiejvqnjpqcpqdjrnabqn- iiuf

“Ljeqcdjglhhbjaohjacwikdjipqntiwq,”jQhoajkalh,jcledlogjvqnjvaohk
lokdlotdlpqcbjdijvqnjvqahjaohjrxkvlogjvqnjkdnasjvadjxrjeniwjvqn
einqvqahfj“Ljtixcho'djvapqjkdabqhjdvnixgvjdvqjkqnpltqf”jDvqbjsqnq
ixdklhqjlojdvqjkvahisjiejdvqjtvxntvfjNi qndjsakjexccjiejkicltldxhqf

“Ldjsakjeiccbjdijvapqjdvixgvdjiejgilogjlojdvqjelnkdjrcatq,jcqdjacioq
kdablogfjTiwqjipqnjdijWahawqjAodiloq'k;jbixjtaojnqkdjdvqnqf”jVqjdiiujvqn
anwjaohjcqhjvqnjasab,jciiulogjaoylixkcbjaohjtiodloxixkcbjhisojlodijvqn
eatqf

Visjkdlccjldjsak,jsldvjiocbjdvqjpiltqjiejdvqjkqajsvlkrqnlogjdvnixgvjdvq
nqqhkjdvadjgnqsjlojdvqjkacd-sadqnjriick!jDvqjciogjcloqjiejclddcqjgnab,
sqadvqn- qadqojvixkqkjoqkdcqhjrqatqexccbjawiogjdvqjinaogqjdnqqkfjLdjwxkd
acsabkjvapqj qqojGih'kjhabjiojdvadjcis,jhniskbjlkcaoh,jQhoajdvixgvdf
Dvqbjkdirrqh,jcqaologjipqnjajzaggqhjeqotqjwahqjiejkqa-hnled,jdijaku
einjsadqnfjAjbixdv,jajwlch-eatqhjAtahlao,jsakjhnaslogjsadqnjeniwjdvq
tlkdqno,jsvltvjsakjoidvlogjwinqjdvaojajnxkdbj xib,jsldvjaojirqologjio
ioqjklhq,jkxoujlojdvqjgnixohfjDvqjsadqnjsvltvjdvqjbixdvjvaohqhjdijdvqw
lojajdlojralcjsakjoidjtichjdijdakdq,j xdjldjsakjtiicjdijvqnjvqadqhjeatq,
aohjldjgnqadcbjnqplpqhjaohjnqenqkvqhjvqnf

WahawqjAodiloq'kjtidjsakjadjdvqjeanjqohjiejdvqjplccagqfjKvqjsqctiwqh
dvqwjsldvjaccjdvqjoadlpqjvikrldacldb,jakjkvqjsixchjvapqjirqoqhjvqnjhiin
dijcqdjdvqjkxoclgvdjlofjKvqjsakjead,jaohjsacuqhjvqaplcbjaohjtcxwklcb
atnikkjdvqjeciinfjKvqjtixchjkrqaujoijQogclkv,j xdjsvqojNi qndjwahqjvqn
xohqnkdaohjdvadjdvqjcahbjsvijattiwraolqhjvlwjsakjlccjaohjhqklnqhjdi
nqkd,jkvqjsakjaccjqagqnoqkkjdijwauqjQhoajeqqcjadjviwqjaohjdijhlkrikqjie
vqnjtiweinda cbf

Dvqjsvicqjrcatqjsakjlwwatxcadqcbjtcqao,jaohjdvqj lg,jeixn-rikdqhj qh,
kois-svldq,jlopldqhjioqjdijnqrikqfjLdjkdiihjlojajkwaccjklhqjniiwjsvltv
ciiuqhjixdjatnikkjajoannisjgnakkjrcidjdisanhjdvqjkvqh,jsvqnqjdvqnqjsakja
hlka cqhj iadjcblogjuqqcjxrsanhf

WahawqjAodiloqjvahjoidjgioqjdijwakkfjVqnjkiojDiolqjvah,j xdjkvqjkxrrikqh
vqjsixchjkiioj qj atu,jaohjkvqjlopldqhjNi qndjdij qjkqadqhjaohjsaldjein
vlwfj xdjvqjsqodjaohjkadjixdklhqjdvqjhiinjaohjkwiuqhfjWahawqjAodiloq
 xklqhjvqnkqcejlojdvqjcangqjeniodjniiwjrnqranlogjhlooqnfjKvqjsakj ilclog
wxccqdkjipqnjajeqsjnqhjtiackjlojdvqjvxgqjelnqrcatqf

Qhoa,jcqedjacioqjlojdvqjclddcqjklhqjniiw,jciikqoqhjvqnjtcidvqk,jnqwiplog
dvqjgnqadqnjrandjiejdvqwfjKvqj advqhjvqnjeatq,jvqnjoqtujaohjanwkjlo
dvqj aklojdvadjkdiihj qdsqqojdvqjslohiskfjKvqjdiiujieejvqnjkviqkjaoh
kditulogkjaohjkdnqdtvqhjvqnkqcejlojdvqjpqnbjtqodqnjiejdvqjvlgv,jsvldq
 qhfjVisjcxyxnlixkjldjeqcdjdijnqkdjdvxkjlojajkdnaogq,j.xalodj qh,
sldvjldkjksqqdjtixodnbjihinjiejcaxnqcjclogqnlogja ixdjdvqjkvqqdkjaoh
waddnqkk!jKvqjkdnqdtvqhjvqnjkdniogjclw kjdvadjatvqhjajclddcqfjKvqjnao
vqnjelogqnkjdvnixgvjvqnjciikqoqhjvalnjeinjajsvlcqfjKvqjciiuqhjadjvqn
nixohjanwkjakjkvqjvqchjdvqwjkdnalgvdjxrjaohjnx  qhjdvqwjioqjaedqnjdvq
idvqn,ji kqnplogjtcikqcb,jakjlejldjsqnqjkiwqdvlogjkvqjkasjeinjdvqjelnkd
dlwq,jdvqjeloq,jelnwj.xacldbjaohjdqydxnqjiejvqnjecqkvfjKvqjtcakrqhjvqn
vaohkjqaklcbja ipqjvqnjvqah,jaohjldjsakjdvxkjkvqjeqccjakcqqrf

Kvqjkcqrdjclgvdcbjadjelnkd,jvacejasauqjaohjhnisklcbjaddqodlpqjdijdvq
dvlogkja ixdjvqnfjKvqjtixchjvqanjWahawqjAodiloq'kjvqapb,jktnarlogjdnqah
akjkvqjsacuqhj atujaohjeindvjiojdvqjkaohqhjeciinfjKiwqjtvltuqokjsqnq
tcxtulogjixdklhqjdvqjslohisk,jktnadtvlogjeinj ldkjiejgnapqcjlojdvq
gnakkfjCadqnjkvqjvacejvqanhjdvqjpiltqkjiejNi qndjaohjDiolqjdaculogjxohqn
dvqjkvqhfjKvqjhlhjoidjkdlnfjQpqojvqnjqbqclhkjnqkdqhjoxw jaohjvqaplcb
ipqnjvqnjkcqqrbjqbqkfjDvqjpiltqkjsqodjio--Diolq'kjkcis,jAtahlaojhnasc,
Ni qnd'kj.xltu,jkied,jkwiidvjEnqotvfjKvqjxohqnkdiihjEnqotvjlwrqneqtdcb
xocqkkjhlnqtdcbjahhnqkkqh,jaohjdvqjpiltqkjsqnqjiocbjrandjiejdvqjidvqn
hniskb,jwxeecqhjkixohkjcxcclogjvqnjkqokqkf

SvqojQhoajasiuqjldjsakjsldvjdvqjtiopltdliojdvadjkvqjvahjkcqrdjciogjaoh
kixohcbfjDvqjpiltqkjsqnqjvxkvqhjxohqnjdvqjkvqhfjWahawqjAodiloq'kjkdqr
sakjoijciogqnjdij qjvqanhjlojdvqjahzilologjniiwfjQpqojdvqjtvltuqokjvah
gioqjqckqsvqnqjdijktnadtvjaohjtcxtufjDvqjwik.xldij anjsakjhnasojipqn
vqn;jdvqjichjsiwaojvahjtiwqjlojsvlcqjkvqjkcqrdjaohjcqdjhisojdvqj anf
Qhoajanikqj.xlqdcbjeniwjdvqj qh,jaohjciiulogj qdsqqojdvqjtxndalokjiejdvq
slohis,jkvqjkasj bjdvqjkcaodlogjnabkjiejdvqjkxojdvadjdvqjaedqnoiiojsak
eanjahpaotqhfjNi qndjsakjixdjdvqnqjxohqnjdvqjkvqh,jnqtclologjlojdvq
kvahqjagalokdjdvqjkcirlogjuqqcjiejdvqjipqndxnoqhj iadfjVqjsakjnqahlog
eniwjaj iiufjDiolqjsakjoijciogqnjsldvjvlwfjKvqjsiohqnqhjsvadjvahj qtiwq
iejdvqjnqkdjiejdvqjrandbfjKvqjrqqrqhjixdjadjvlwjdsijinjdvnqqjdlwqkjak
kvqjkdiihjsakvlogjvqnkqcejlojdvqjclddcqj akloj qdsqqojdvqjslohiskf

WahawqjAodiloqjvahjcalhjkiwqjtiankq,jtcqaojdisqckjxriojajtvaln,jaohjvah
rcatqhjaj iyjiejrixhnqjhqjnlmjsldvlojqakbjnqatvfjQhoajha  qhjdvqjrishqn
xriojvqnjoikqjaohjtvqqukjakjkvqjciiuqhjadjvqnkqcejtcikqcbjlojdvqjclddcq
hlkdindqhjwlnninjsvltvjvxogjiojdvqjsaccja ipqjdvqj aklofjVqnjqbqkjsqnq
 nlgvdjaohjslhqjasauqjaohjvqnjeatqjgcisqhf

Svqojkvqjvahjtiwrcqdqhjvqnjdilcqdjkvqjsacuqhjlodijdvqjahzilologjniiwf
KvqjsakjpqnbjvxognbfjOijioqjsakjdvqnqfj xdjdvqnqjsakjajtcidvjkrnqahjxrio
dvqjda cqjdvadjkdiihjagalokdjdvqjsacc,jaohjajtipqnjsakjcalhjeinjioq,
sldvjajtnxkdbj nisojciaejaohjaj iddcqjiejsloqj qklhqjdvqjrcadqfjQhoaj ld
ajrlqtqjeniwjdvqj nisojciae,jdqanlogjldjsldvjvqnjkdniog,jsvldqjdqqdvf
KvqjrixnqhjkiwqjiejdvqjsloqjlodijdvqjgcakkjaohjhnaoujldjhisofjDvqojkvq
sqodjkiedcbjixdjiejhiink,jaohjrcxtulogjaojinaogqjeniwjdvqjcis-vaoglog
 ixgvjiejajdnqq,jdvnqsjldjadjNi qnd,jsvijhlhjoidjuoisjkvqjsakjasauqjaoh
xrf

Aojlccxwloadlioj niuqjipqnjvlkjsvicqjeatqjsvqojvqjkasjvqnjaohjziloqhjvqn
xohqnjdvqjinaogqjdnqqf

“VisjwaobjbqankjvapqjLjkcqrd?”jkvqjlo.xlnqhfj“Dvqjsvicqjlkcaohjkqqwk
tvaogqhfjAjoqsjnatqjiej qlogkjwxkdjvapqjkrnxogjxr,jcqaplogjiocbjbixjaoh
wqjakjrakdjnqcltkfjVisjwaobjagqkjagijhlhjWahawqjAodiloqjaohjDiolqjhlq?
aohjsvqojhlhjixnjrqircqjeniwjGnaohjLkcqjhlkarrqanjeniwjdvqjqandv?”

Vqjeawlclancbjahzxkdqhjajnxeecqjxriojvqnjkvixchqnf

“BixjvapqjkcqrdjrnqtlkqcbjioqjvxohnqhjbqankfjLjsakjcqedjvqnqjdijgxanh
bixnjkcxw qnk;jaohjeinjioqjvxohnqhjbqankjLjvapqj qqojixdjxohqnjdvqjkvqh
nqahlogjaj iiufjDvqjiocbjqplcjLjtixcho'djrnqpqodjsakjdijuqqrjaj nilcqh
eiscjeniwjhnblogjxrf”

“Lejldjvakjdxnoqhjdijkdioq,jkdlccjslccjLjqadjld,”jkalhjQhoa,jwiplogjsldv
vlwjlodijdvqjvixkqfj“ xdjnqaccb,jsvadjvakj qtiwqjiejWioklqxnjEanlpacjaoh
dvqjidvqnk?”

“GioqjvixnkjagifjSvqojdvqbjeixohjdvadjbixjsqnqjkcqqrlogjdvqbjdvixgvd
ldj qkdjoidjdijasauqjbixfjAobjsab,jLjsixcho'djvapqjcqdjdvqwfjSvadjsakjL
vqnqjein?”

“LjsiohqnjlejCqiotqjslccj qjxoqakb!”jkvqjkrqtxcadqh,jakjkvqjkqadqh
vqnkqcejadjda cqf

“Iejtixnkqjoid;jvqjuoiskjbixjanqjsldvjwq,”jNi qndjnqrclqh,jakjvq
 xklqhjvlwkqcejawiogjkxohnbjraokjaohjtipqnqhjhlkvqkjsvltvjvahj qqojcqed
kdaohlogjiojdvqjvqandvf

“SvqnqjanqjWahawqjAodiloqjaohjvqnjkio?”jakuqhjQhoaf

“GioqjdijPqkrqnk,jaohjdijplkldjkiwqjenlqohk,jLj qclqpqfjLjawjdijdauqjbix
 atujlojDiolq'kj iadjsvqoqpqnjbixjanqjnqahbjdijgif”

Vqjkdlnnqhjdvqjkwichqnlogjakvqkjdlccjdvqj nilcqhjeiscj qgaojdijklmmcq
aenqkvfjVqjkqnpqhjvqnjsldvjoijwqaojnqrakd,jhnlrrlogjdvqjtieeqqjaoqs
aohjkvanlogjldjsldvjvqnfjWahawqjAodiloqjvahjtiiuqhjclddcqjqckqjdvao
dvqjwxccqdk,j xdjsvlcqjQhoajkcqrdjNi qndjvahjeinagqhjdvqjlkcaohfjVqjsak
tvlchlkvcbjgnadlelqhjdijhlktipqnjvqnjarrqdldq,jaohjdijkqqjdvqjnqclkv
sldvjsvltvjkvqjadqjdvqjeiihjsvltvjvqjvahjrnitxnqhjeinjvqnf

“Kvaccjsqjgijnlgvdjasab?”jkvqjakuqh,jaedqnjhnalologjvqnjgcakkjaoh
 nxkvlogjdigqdvqnjdvqjtnxw kjiejdvqjtnxkdbjciaef

“Dvqjkxojlko'djakjcisjakjldjslccj qjlojdsijvixnk,”jvqjaoksqnqhf

“Dvqjkxojslccj qjgioqjlojdsijvixnkf”

“Sqcc,jcqdjldjgi;jsvijtanqk!”

Dvqbjsaldqhjajgiihjsvlcqjxohqnjdvqjinaogqjdnqqk,jdlccjWahawqjAodiloq
tawqj atu,jraodlog,jsahhclog,jsldvjajdvixkaohjariciglqkjdijqyrcalo
vqnja kqotqfjDiolqjhlhjoidjhanqjdijnqdxnofjVqjsakjkvb,jaohjsixchjoid
slcclogcbjeatqjaobjsiwaojqytqrdjvlkjwidvqnf

Ldjsakjpqnbjrcqakaodjdijkdabjdvqnqjxohqnjdvqjinaogqjdnqqk,jsvlcqjdvqjkxo
hlrrqhjcisqnjaohjcisqn,jdxnologjdvqjsqkdqnojkubjdijecawlogjtirrqnjaoh
gichfjDvqjkvahiskjcqogdvqoqhjaohjtnqrdjixdjcluqjkdqacdvb,jgnidqk.xq
wiokdqnkjatnikkjdvqjgnakkf

QhoajaohjNi qndj idvjkadjxriojdvqjgnixoh--dvadjlk,jvqjcabjxriojdvq
gnixohj qklhqjvqn,jittaklioaccbjrltulogjadjdvqjvqwjiejvqnjwxkclojgisof

WahawqjAodiloqjkqadqhjvqnjeadj ihb,j niahjaohjk.xad,jxriojaj qotvj qklhq
dvqjhiinfjKvqjvahj qqojdaculogjaccjdvqjaedqnoiio,jaohjvahjsixohjvqnkqce
xrjdijdvqjkdinbdqcclogjrldtvf

Aohjsvadjkdinlqkjkvqjdichjdvqw!j xdjdsltqjlojvqnjcleqjkvqjvahjcqedjdvq
TvqolqnqjTawloaha,jaohjdvqojeinjdvqj nlqeqkdjkraofjAccjvqnjbqankjkvq
vahjk.xaddqhjaohjsahhcqhjdvqnqjxriojdvqjlkcaoh,jgadvqnlogjcqgqohkjiejdvq
 anadanlaokjaohjdvqjkqafjDvqjolgvdjtawqjio,jsldvjdvqjwiiojdijclgvdqo
ldfjQhoajtixchjvqanjdvqjsvlkrqnlogjpiltqkjiejhqahjwqojaohjdvqjtcltujie
wxeecqhjgichf

SvqojkvqjaohjNi qndjkdqrrqhjlodijDiolq'kj iad,jsldvjdvqjnqhjcadqqojkalc,
wlkdbjkrlnldjeinwkjsqnqjrnisclogjlojdvqjkvahiskjaohjawiogjdvqjnqqhk,jaoh
xriojdvqjsadqnjsqnqjrvaodiwjkvlrk,jkrqqhlogjdijtipqnf




YLP


Dvqjbixogqkdj ib,jQdlqooq,jvahj qqojpqnbjoaxgvdb,jWahawqjNadlgoiccq
kalh,jakjkvqjhqclpqnqhjvlwjlodijdvqjvaohkjiejvlkjwidvqnfjVqjvahj qqo
xoslcclogjdijgijdij qhjaohjvahjwahqjajktqoq;jsvqnqxriojkvqjvahjdauqo
tvangqjiejvlwjaohjratlelqhjvlwjakjsqccjakjkvqjtixchfjNaixcjvahj qqojlo
 qhjaohjakcqqrjeinjdsijvixnkf

Dvqjbixogkdqnjsakjlojvlkjciogjsvldqjolgvdgiso,jdvadjuqrdjdnlrrlogjvlw
xrjakjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjcqhjvlwjaciogj bjdvqjvaohfjSldvjdvqjidvqnjtvx  b
elkdjvqjnx  qhjvlkjqbqk,jsvltvjsqnqjvqapbjsldvjkcqqrjaohjlccjvxwinfjQhoa
diiujvlwjlojvqnjanwk,jaohjkqadlogjvqnkqcejlojdvqjnituqn,j qgaojdijtihhcq
aohjtanqkkjvlw,jtacclogjvlwjaccjwaooqnjiejdqohqnjoawqk,jkiidvlogjvlwjdi
kcqqrf

Ldjsakjoidjwinqjdvaojoloqji'tcitufjOijioqjvahjbqdjgioqjdij qhj xdjdvq
tvlchnqof

Cqiotqjvahj qqojpqnbjxoqakbjadjelnkd,jWahawqjNadlgoiccqjkalh,jaohjvah
saodqhjdijkdandjadjiotqjeinjdvqjTvqolqnqfj xdjWioklqxnjEanlpacjvah
akkxnqhjvlwjdvadjvlkjsleqjsakjiocbjipqntiwqjsldvjkcqqrjaohjeadlgxq,jdvad
Diolqjsixchj nlogjvqnjkaeqcbj atujcadqnjlojdvqjhab;jaohjvqjvahjdvxkj qqo
hlkkxahqhjeniwjtnikklogjdvqj abfjVqjvahjgioqjipqnjdijUcqlo'k,jciiulog
xrjkiwqjtiddioj niuqnjsviwjvqjslkvqhjdijkqqjlojnqganhjdijkqtxnldlqk,
qytvaogqk,jkdituk,j iohk,jinjkiwqdvlogjiejdvqjkind,jWahawqjNadlgoiccq
hlhjoidjnqwqw qnjsvadfjVqjkalhjvqjsixchjoidjnqwalojasabjcadqfjKvq
vqnkqcejsakjkxeeqnlogjeniwjvqadjaohjirrnqkklio,jkvqjkalhfjKvqjtannlqh
aj iddcqjiejkacdkjaohjajcangqjeaofjKvqjsixchjoidjtiokqodjdijnqwalo
sldvjQhoa,jeinjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsakjacioq,jaohjvqjhqdqkdqhja ipqjacc
dvlogkjdij qjcqedjacioqf

SvqojQdlqooqjvahjeaccqojakcqqrjQhoaj inqjvlwjlodijdvqj atujniiw,jaoh
Ni qndjsqodjaohjcledqhjdvqjwik.xldij anjdvadjkvqjwlgvdjcabjdvqjtvlch
tiweinda cbjlojvlkj qhfjDvqj.xahniiojvahjpaolkvqhfjSvqojdvqbjqwqngqh
eniwjdvqjtiddagqjNi qndj ahqjQhoajgiih-olgvdf

“Hijbixjuoisjsqjvapqj qqojdigqdvqnjdvqjsvicqjclpqciogjhab,jNi qnd--klotq
qancbjdvlkjwinolog?”jkvqjkalhjadjrandlogf

“Accj xdjdvqjvxohnqhjbqankjsvqojbixjsqnqjkcqqrlogfjGiiholgvdf”

Vqjrnqkkqhjvqnjvaohjaohjsqodjasabjlojdvqjhlnqtdliojiejdvqj qatvfjVqjhlh
oidjzilojaobjiejdvqjidvqnk,j xdjsacuqhjacioqjdisanhjdvqjGxcef

Qhoajkdabqhjixdklhq,jasaldlogjvqnjvxk aoh'kjnqdxnofjKvqjvahjoijhqklnq
dijkcqqrjinjdijnqdlnq;joinjhlhjkvqjeqqcjcluqjgilogjipqnjdijkldjsldvjdvq
Nadlgoiccqk,jinjdijzilojWahawqjCq nxojaohjajgnixrjsvikqjaolwadqhjpiltqk
nqatvqhjvqnjakjdvqbjkadjlojtiopqnkadlioj qeinqjdvqjvixkqfjKvqjcqdjvqn
wlohjsaohqnj atujipqnjvqnjkdabjadjGnaohjLkcq;jaohjkvqjdnlqhjdijhlktipqn
svqnqlojdvlkjkxwwqnjvahj qqojhleeqnqodjeniwjaobjaohjqpqnbjidvqnjkxwwqn
iejvqnjcleqfjKvqjtixchjiocbjnqaclmqjdvadjkvqjvqnkqce--vqnjrnqkqod
kqce--sakjlojkiwqjsabjhleeqnqodjeniwjdvqjidvqnjkqcefjDvadjkvqjsakjkqqlog
sldvjhleeqnqodjqbqkjaohjwaulogjdvqjat.xalodaotqjiejoqsjtiohldliok
lojvqnkqcejdvadjticinqhjaohjtvaogqhjvqnjqoplniowqod,jkvqjhlhjoidjbqd
kxkrqtdf

KvqjsiohqnqhjsvbjNi qndjvahjgioqjasabjaohjcqedjvqnfjLdjhlhjoidjittxnjdi
vqnjdijdvloujvqjwlgvdjvapqjgnisojdlnqhjiej qlogjsldvjvqnjdvqjclpqciog
habfjKvqjsakjoidjdlnqh,jaohjkvqjeqcdjdvadjvqjsakjoidfjKvqjnqgnqddqhjdvad
vqjvahjgioqfjLdjsakjkijwxtvjwinqjoadxnacjdijvapqjvlwjkdabjsvqojvqjsak
oidja kicxdqcbjnq.xlnqhjdijcqapqjvqnf

AkjQhoajsaldqhjeinjvqnjvxk aohjkvqjkaogjcisjajclddcqjkiogjdvadjNi qnd
vahjkxogjakjdvqbjtnikkqhjdvqj abfjLdj qgaojsldvj“Av!jKljdxjkapalk,”jaoh
qpqnbjpqnkqjqohqhjsldvj“kljdxjkapalkf”

Ni qnd'kjpiltqjsakjoidjrnqdqodlixkfjLdjsakjwxkltacjaohjdnxqfjDvqjpiltq,
dvqjoidqk,jdvqjsvicqjnqenalojvaxodqhjvqnjwqwinbf




YP


SvqojQhoajqodqnqhjdvqjhlolog-niiwjioqjqpqologjajclddcqjcadq,jakjsakjvqn
va ld,jaojxoxkxaccbjaolwadqhjtiopqnkadliojkqqwqhjdij qjgilogjiofjKqpqnac
rqnkiokjsqnqjdaculogjadjiotq,jaohjPltdin'kjpiltqjsakjrnqhiwloadlog,
qpqojipqnjdvadjiejvlkjwidvqnfjQhoajvahjnqdxnoqhjcadqjeniwjvqnj adv,jvah
hnqkkqhjlojkiwqjvakdq,jaohjvqnjeatqjsakjecxkvqhfjVqnjvqah,jkqdjieej b
vqnjhalodbjsvldqjgiso,jkxggqkdqhjajnltv,jnanqj cikkiwfjKvqjdiiujvqnjkqad
adjda cqj qdsqqojichjWioklqxnjEanlpacjaohjWahawqjNadlgoiccqf

Akjkvqjkqadqhjvqnkqcejaohjsakja ixdjdij qglojdijqadjvqnjkixr,jsvltv
vahj qqojkqnpqhjsvqojkvqjqodqnqhjdvqjniiw,jkqpqnacjrqnkiokjloeinwqhjvqn
klwxcdaoqixkcbjdvadjNi qndjsakjgilogjdijWqyltifjKvqjcalhjvqnjkriiojhiso
aohjciiuqhja ixdjvqnj qslchqnqhfjVqjvahj qqojsldvjvqn,jnqahlogjdijvqn
accjdvqjwinolog,jaohjvahjoqpqnjqpqojwqodlioqhjkxtvjajrcatqjakjWqyltif
Kvqjvahjoidjkqqojvlwjhxnlogjdvqjaedqnoiio;jkvqjvahjvqanhjkiwqjioqjkabjvq
sakjadjdvqjvixkq,jxrkdalnkjsldvjvlkjwidvqnfjDvlkjkvqjvahjdvixgvdjoidvlog
ie,jdvixgvjkvqjsakjkxnrnlkqhjsvqojvqjhlhjoidjzilojvqnjcadqnjlojdvq
aedqnoiio,jsvqojkvqjsqodjhisojdijdvqj qatvf

Kvqjciiuqhjatnikkjadjvlw,jsvqnqjvqjkadj qklhqjWahawqjCq nxo,jsvi
rnqklhqhfjQhoa'kjeatqjsakjaj caoujrltdxnqjiej qslchqnwqod,jsvltvjkvq
oqpqnjdvixgvdjiejhlkgxlklogfjVqjcledqhjvlkjqbq niskjsldvjdvqjrnqdqyd
iejajkwlcqjakjvqjnqdxnoqhjvqnjgcaotqfjVqjciiuqhjqw annakkqhjaohjxoqakbf
“Svqojlkjvqjgilog?”jkvqjakuqhjiejqpqnb ihbjlojgqoqnac,jakjlejNi qndjsqnq
oidjdvqnqjdijaoksqnjeinjvlwkqcef

“Di-olgvd!”j“Dvlkjpqnbjqpqolog!”j“Hlhjbixjqpqn!”j“Svadjrikkqkkqkjvlw!”
jsqnqjkiwqjiejdvqjnqrclqkjkvqjgadvqnqh,jxddqnqhjklwxcdaoqixkcbjlojEnqotv
aohjQogclkvf

“Lwrikkl cq!”jkvqjqytcalwqhfj“VisjtaojajrqnkiojkdandjieejeniwjGnaohjLkcq
dijWqyltijadjajwiwqod'kjoidltq,jakjlejvqjsqnqjgilogjipqnjdijUcqlo'kjin
dijdvqjsvanejinjhisojdijdvqj qatv?”

“LjkalhjaccjaciogjLjsakjgilogjdijWqylti;jL'pqj qqojkablogjkijeinjbqank!”
jtnlqhjNi qnd,jlojaojqytldqhjaohjlnnlda cqjdioq,jsldvjdvqjalnjiejajwao
hqeqohlogjvlwkqcejagalokdjajksanwjiejkdloglogjlokqtdkf

WahawqjCq nxojuoituqhjiojdvqjda cqjsldvjvqnjuoleqjvaohcqf

“RcqakqjcqdjNi qndjqyrcalojsvbjvqjlkjgilog,jaohjsvbjvqjlkjgilog
di-olgvd,”jkvqjtaccqhjixdfj“Nqaccb,jdvlkjda cqjlkjgqddlogjdij qjwinqjaoh
winqjcluqj qhcawjqpqnbjhab,jsldvjqpqnb ihbjdaculogjadjiotqfjKiwqdlwqk--L
virqjGihjslccjeinglpqjwq-- xdjrikldlpqcb,jkiwqdlwqkjLjslkvjPltdinjsixch
cikqjdvqjrisqnjiejkrqqtvf”

Pltdinjcaxgvqhjkanhioltaccbjakjvqjdvaouqhjvlkjwidvqnjeinjvqnjvicbjslkv,
iejsvltvjvqjealcqhjdijkqqjdvqj qoqeldjdijaob ihb,jqytqrdjdvadjldjwlgvd
aeeinhjvqnjajwinqjawrcqjirrindxoldbjaohjcltqokqjdijdacujvqnkqcef

WioklqxnjEanlpacjdvixgvdjdvadjPltdinjkvixchjvapqj qqojdauqojixdjlo
wlh-itqaojlojvlkjqanclqkdjbixdvjaohjhnisoqhfjPltdinjdvixgvdjdvqnqjsixch
 qjwinqjcigltjlojdvxkjhlkriklogjiejichjrqircqjsldvjaojqkda clkvqhjtcalw
einjwaulogjdvqwkqcpqkjxolpqnkaccbji oiylixkfjWahawqjCq nxojgnqsjajdnlecq
vbkdqnltac;jNi qndjtaccqhjvlkj nidvqnjkiwqjkvanr,jvanhjoawqkf

“Dvqnq'kjoidvlogjwxtvjdijqyrcalo,jwidvqn,”jvqjkalh;jdvixgvjvqjqyrcaloqh,
oqpqndvqcqkk--ciiulogjtvlqecbjadjQhoa--dvadjvqjtixchjiocbjwqqdjdvq
gqodcqwaojsviwjvqjlodqohqhjdijzilojadjPqnajTnxmj bjdaulogjkxtvjaohjkxtv
ajkdqawqn,jsvltvjcqedjOqsjIncqaokjiojkxtvjajhab;jdvadj qaxhqcqdjsak
gilogjixdjsldvjvlkjcxggqn-ciahjiejpqgqda cqkjdvadjolgvd,jsvltvjgapqjvlw
aojirrindxoldbjiejnqatvlogjdvqjtldbjaohjwaulogjvlkjpqkkqcjlojdlwqf

“ xdjsvqojhlhjbixjwauqjxrjbixnjwlohjdijaccjdvlk?”jhqwaohqhjWioklqxn
Eanlpacf

“Dvlkjaedqnoiio,”jnqdxnoqhjNi qnd,jsldvjajkvahqjiejaooibaotqf

“Adjsvadjdlwqjdvlkjaedqnoiio?”jrqnklkdqhjdvqjichjgqodcqwao,jsldvjoagglog
hqdqnwloadlio,jakjlejvqjsqnqjtnikk-.xqkdliologjajtnlwloacjlojajtixndjie
zxkdltqf

“Adjeixnji'tcitujdvlkjaedqnoiio,jWioklqxnjEanlpac,”jNi qndjnqrclqh,jlo
ajvlgvjpiltqjaohjsldvjajciedbjaln,jsvltvjnqwlohqhjQhoajiejkiwqjgqodcqwao
iojdvqjkdagqf

Kvqjvahjeintqhjvqnkqcejdijqadjwikdjiejvqnjkixr,jaohjoisjkvqjsakjrltulog
dvqjecaubj ldkjiejajtixndj ixlcciojsldvjvqnjeinuf

Dvqjcipqnkjsqnqjrnieldlogj bjdvqjgqoqnacjtiopqnkadliojiojWqyltijdijkrqau
lojsvlkrqnkjiejwaddqnkjsvltvjdvqbjnlgvdcbjtioklhqnqhjsqnqjlodqnqkdlog
dijoijioqj xdjdvqwkqcpqkfjDvqjcahbjloj catujvahjiotqjnqtqlpqhjajraln
iejrnabqn- qahkjiejtxnlixkjsinuwaokvlrjeniwjWqylti,jsldvjpqnbjkrqtlac
lohxcgqotqjaddatvqhjdijdvqw,j xdjkvqjvahjoqpqnj qqoja cqjdijaktqndalo
svqdvqnjdvqjlohxcgqotqjqydqohqhjixdklhqjdvqjWqyltaoj inhqnfjEadvqn
EitvqcjiejdvqjTadvqhnacjvahjaddqwrdqhjdijqyrcalojld;j xdjvqjvahjoid
hioqjkijdijvqnjkadlkeatdliofjAohjkvqj qggqhjdvadjNi qndjsixchjlodqnqkd
vlwkqce,jaohjhlktipqn,jlejrikkl cq,jsvqdvqnjkvqjsakjqodldcqhjdijdvq
lohxcgqotqjattiwraoblogjdvqjnqwanua cbjtxnlixkjWqyltaojrnabqn- qahkf

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjvirqhjdvadjNi qndjsixchjqyqntlkqjqydnqwqjtaxdlio
lojhqaclogjsldvjdvqjWqyltaok,jsvi,jkvqjtioklhqnqh,jsqnqjajdnqatvqnixk
rqircq,jxoktnxrxcixkjaohjnqpqogqexcfjKvqjdnxkdqhjkvqjhlhjdvqwjoi
lozxkdltqjlojdvxkjtiohqwologjdvqwjakjajnatqfjKvqjvahjuoisojrqnkioaccb
 xdjioqjWqyltao,jsvijwahqjaohjkichjqytqccqodjdawacqk,jaohjsviwjkvqjsixch
vapqjdnxkdqhjlwrcltldcb,jkijkied-kriuqojsakjvqfjIoqjhabjvqjsakjannqkdqh
einjkda  logjvlkjsleqfjKvqjoqpqnjuoqsjsvqdvqnjvqjvahj qqojvaogqhjinjoidf

Pltdinjvahjgnisojvlcanlixk,jaohjsakjaddqwrdlogjdijdqccjaojaoqthidq
a ixdjajWqyltaojglncjsvijkqnpqhjtviticadqjioqjslodqnjlojajnqkdaxnaodjlo
HaxrvloqjKdnqqdfjOijioqjsixchjclkdqojdijvlwj xdjichjWioklqxnjEanlpac,
svijsqodjlodijtiopxckliokjipqnjdvqjhniccjkdinbf

Qhoajsiohqnqhjlejdvqbjvahjaccjgioqjwah,jdij qjdaculogjaohjtcawinlogjad
dvadjnadqfjKvqjvqnkqcejtixchjdvloujiejoidvlogjdijkabja ixdjWqyltijinjdvq
Wqyltaokf

“Adjsvadjdlwqjhijbixjcqapq?”jkvqjakuqhjNi qndf

“Adjdqo,”jvqjdichjvqnfj“ qaxhqcqdjsaodkjdijsaldjeinjdvqjwiiof”

“Anqjbixjaccjnqahbjdijgi?”

“.xldqjnqahbfjLjkvaccjiocbjdauqjajvaoh- ag,jaohjkvaccjratujwbjdnxoujlo
dvqjtldbf”

Vqjdxnoqhjdijaoksqnjkiwqj.xqkdliojrxdjdijvlwj bjvlkjwidvqn,jaohjQhoa,
vaplogjelolkvqhjvqnj catujtieeqq,jcqedjdvqjda cqf

KvqjsqodjhlnqtdcbjdijvqnjniiwfjDvqjclddcqjtiddagqjsakjtcikqjaohjkdxeeb
aedqnjcqaplogjdvqjixdqnjalnfj xdjkvqjhlhjoidjwloh;jdvqnqjarrqanqhjdij q
ajvxohnqhjhleeqnqodjdvlogkjhqwaohlogjvqnjaddqodliojlohiinkfjKvqj qgao
dijkqdjdvqjdilcqd-kdaohjdijnlgvdk,jgnxw clogjadjdvqjoqgclgqotqjiejdvq
.xahniio,jsvijsakjlojdvqjahzilologjniiwjrxddlogjdvqjtvlchnqojdij qhf
Kvqjgadvqnqhjdigqdvqnjkdnabjganwqodkjdvadjsqnqjvaoglogjiojdvqj atukjie
tvalnk,jaohjrxdjqatvjsvqnqjldj qciogqhjlojtcikqdjinj xnqaxjhnasqnfjKvq
tvaogqhjvqnjgisojeinjajwinqjtiweinda cqjaohjtiwwihlixkjsnarrqnfjKvq
nqannaogqhjvqnjvaln,jtiw logjaohj nxkvlogjldjsldvjxoxkxacjqoqngbfjDvqo
kvqjsqodjlojaohjakklkdqhjdvqj.xahniiojlojgqddlogjdvqj ibkjdij qhf

Dvqbjsqnqjpqnbjrcabexcjaohjlotcloqhjdijdacu--dijhijaobdvlogj xdjclq
.xlqdjaohjgijdijkcqqrfjQhoajkqodjdvqj.xahniiojasabjdijvqnjkxrrqnjaoh
dichjvqnjkvqjoqqhjoidjnqdxnofjDvqojkvqjkadjaohjdichjdvqjtvlchnqo
ajkdinbfjLokdqahjiejkiidvlogjldjqytldqhjdvqw,jaohjahhqhjdijdvqln
sauqexcoqkkfjKvqjcqedjdvqwjlojvqadqhjangxwqod,jkrqtxcadlogja ixd
dvqjtiotcxkliojiejdvqjdacqjsvltvjdvqlnjwidvqnjrniwlkqhjdijelolkvjdvq
eiccislogjolgvdf

Dvqjclddcqj catujglncjtawqjlojdijkabjdvadjWahawqjCq nxojsixchjcluqjdi
vapqjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjgijaohjkldjsldvjdvqwjipqnjadjdvqjvixkqjdlccjWnf
Ni qndjsqodjasabfjQhoajnqdxnoqhjaoksqnjdvadjkvqjvahjacnqahbjxohnqkkqh,
dvadjkvqjhlhjoidjeqqcj.xldqjsqcc,j xdjrqnvarkjkvqjsixchjgijipqnjdijdvq
vixkqjcadqnfjKvqjkdandqhjdijhnqkkjagalo,jaohjgidjakjeanjahpaotqhjakjdi
nqwipqjvqnjrqlgoilnfj xdjtvaoglogjvqnjwlohjiotqjwinqjkvqjnqkxwqh
dvqjrqlgoiln,jaohjsqodjixdklhqjaohjkadjhisoj qeinqjvqnjhiinfjKvqjsak
ipqnvqadqhjaohjlnnlda cq,jaohjeaooqhjvqnkqcejqoqngqdltaccbjeinjajsvlcqf
WahawqjNadlgoiccqjtawqjhisojdijhlktipqnjsvadjsakjdvqjwaddqnf

“Accjdvadjoilkqjaohjtioexkliojadjdvqjda cqjwxkdjvapqjxrkqdjwq,”jnqrclqh
Qhoa,j“aohjwinqipqn,jLjvadqjkvitukjaohjkxnrnlkqkfjDvqjlhqajiejNi qnd
kdandlogjieejlojkxtvjajnlhltxcixkcbjkxhhqojaohjhnawadltjsab!jAkjle
ldjsqnqjajwaddqnjiejcleqjaohjhqadv!jOqpqnjkablogjajsinhja ixdjldjacc
winologjsvqojvqjsakjsldvjwqf”

“Bqk,”jagnqqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccqfj“Ljdvloujldjsakjkvislogjxkjacc--bix
qkrqtlaccb--pqnbjclddcqjtioklhqnadliofjLdjsixcho'djvapqjkxnrnlkqhjwqjlo
aobjiejdvqjidvqnk;jdvikqjCq nxokjanqjaccjglpqojdijvqniltkfj xdjLjwxkd
kabjLjkvixchjoqpqnjvapqjqyrqtdqhjkxtvjajdvlogjeniwjNi qndfjAnqjbixjoid
tiwlogjhiso?jTiwqjio,jhqan;jldjhiqko'djciiujenlqohcbf”

“Oi,”jkalhjQhoa,jajclddcqjkxccqocbfj“Ljtao'djgijdijdvqjdnix cqjie
hnqkklogjagalo;jLjhio'djeqqcjcluqjldf”

“Bixjoqqho'djhnqkk;jbixjciiujaccjnlgvd;jeakdqojaj qcdjanixohjbixnjsalkdf
Zxkdjciiujadjwq!”

“Oi,”jrqnklkdqhjQhoa;j“ xdjbixjgijiofjWahawqjCq nxojwlgvdj qjieeqohqhjle
sqj idvjkdabqhjasabf”

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjulkkqhjQhoajgiih-olgvd,jaohjsqodjasab,j qlogjlojdnxdv
nadvqnjhqklnixkjiejzilologjlojdvqjgqoqnacjaohjaolwadqhjtiopqnkadlio
svltvjsakjkdlccjlojrnignqkkjtiotqnologjWqyltijaohjdvqjWqyltaokf

KiwqsvadjcadqnjNi qndjtawqjxr,jtannblogjvlkjvaoh- agf

“Anqo'djbixjeqqclogjsqcc?”jvqjakuqhf

“Iv,jsqccjqoixgvfjAnqjbixjgilogjnlgvdjasab?”

Vqjcldjajwadtvjaohjciiuqhjadjvlkjsadtvfj“Lojdsqodbjwloxdqk,”jvqjkalhf
Dvqjkxhhqojaohj nlqejecanqjiejdvqjwadtvjqwrvaklmqhjdvqjhanuoqkkjeinja
svlcqfjVqjkadjhisojxriojajkdiicjsvltvjdvqjtvlchnqojvahjcqedjixdjiojdvq
rintvf

“Gqdjajtvaln,”jkalhjQhoaf

“Dvlkjslccjhi,”jvqjnqrclqhfjVqjrxdjiojvlkjkiedjvadjaohjoqnpixkcbjdiiujld
ieejagalo,jaohjslrlogjvlkjeatqjsldvjvlkjvaohuqntvlqe,jtiwrcaloqhjiejdvq
vqadf

“Dauqjdvqjeao,”jkalhjQhoa,jieeqnlogjldjdijvlwf

“Iv,joi!jDvaoujbixfjLdjhiqkjoijgiih;jbixjvapqjdijkdirjeaoologjkiwqjdlwq,
aohjeqqcjaccjdvqjwinqjxotiweinda cqjaedqnsanhf”

“Dvad'kjioqjiejdvqjnlhltxcixkjdvlogkjsvltvjwqojacsabkjkabfjLjvapqjoqpqn
uoisojioqjdijkrqaujidvqnslkqjiejeaoologfjVisjciogjslccjbixj qjgioq?”

“Einqpqn,jrqnvarkfjLjhio'djuoisfjLdjhqrqohkjxriojajgiihjwaobjdvlogkf”

“Sqcc,jlojtakqjldjkvixcho'dj qjeinqpqn,jvisjciogjslccjldj q?”

“Ljhio'djuoisf”

“DvlkjkqqwkjdijwqjrqneqtdcbjrnqrikdqnixkjaohjxotaccqhjeinfjLjhio'djcluq
ldfjLjhio'djxohqnkdaohjbixnjwidlpqjeinjklcqotqjaohjwbkdqnb,joqpqnjkablog
ajsinhjdijwqja ixdjldjdvlkjwinologf”jVqjnqwaloqhjklcqod,joidjieeqnlogjdi
hqeqohjvlwkqcefjVqjiocbjkalh,jaedqnjajwiwqod:

“Hio'djrandjeniwjwqjlojaobjlccjvxwinfjLjoqpqnjuoqsjbixjdij qjixdjie
radlqotqjsldvjwqj qeinqf”

“Ljhio'djsaodjdijrandjlojaobjlccjvxwin,”jkvqjkalhfj“ xdjtao'djbix
xohqnkdaoh?jL'pqjgnisojxkqhjdijkqqlogjbix,jdijvaplogjbixjsldvjwqjacc
dvqjdlwq,jaohjbixnjatdliojkqqwkjxoenlqohcb,jqpqojxoulohfjBixjhio'djqpqo
ieeqnjaojqytxkqjeinjldfjSvb,jLjsakjrcaoologjdij qjdigqdvqn,jdvloulogjie
visjrcqakaodjldjsixchj qjdijkqqjbixjlojdvqjtldbjoqydjslodqnf”

“KijsakjL,”jvqj cxndqhfj“Rqnvarkjdvad'kjdvq--”jVqjkdiihjxrjkxhhqocb
aohjvqchjixdjvlkjvaohfj“Giih- b,jwbjhqanjWnkfjRiodqcclqn;jgiih- bfjBix
sio'd--Ljvirqjbixjsio'djtiwrcqdqcbjeingqdjwqf”jKvqjtcxogjdijvlkjvaoh,
kdnlplogjdijhqdalojvlwf

“Snldqjdijwqjsvqojbixjgqdjdvqnq,jsio'djbix,jNi qnd?”jkvqjqodnqadqhf

“Ljslcc,jdvaoujbixfjGiih- bf”

VisjxocluqjNi qnd!jDvqjwqnqkdjat.xalodaotqjsixchjvapqjkalhjkiwqdvlog
winqjqwrvadltjdvaoj“Ljslcc,jdvaoujbix;jgiih- b,”jdijkxtvjajnq.xqkdf

Vqjvahjqplhqodcbjacnqahbjdauqojcqapqjiejdvqjrqircqjipqnjadjdvqjvixkq,
einjvqjhqktqohqhjdvqjkdqrkjaohjsqodjdijziloj qaxhqcqd,jsvijsakjixdjdvqnq
sldvjaojianjatnikkjvlkjkvixchqnjsaldlogjeinjNi qndfjDvqbjsacuqhjasab
lojdvqjhanuoqkkfjKvqjtixchjiocbjvqanj qaxhqcqd'kjpiltq;jNi qndjvah
arranqodcbjoidjqpqojkriuqojajsinhjiejgnqqdlogjdijvlkjtiwraoliof

Qhoaj ldjvqnjvaohuqntvlqejtiopxcklpqcb,jkdnlplogjdijvichj atujaohjdi
vlhq,jqpqojeniwjvqnkqcejakjkvqjsixchjvapqjvlhhqojeniwjaoidvqn,jdvq
qwidliojsvltvjsakjdnix clog--dqanlog--vqnfjVqnjqbqkjsqnqj nlwwlogjsldv
dqankf

Einjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjkvqjnqtigolmqhjdvqjkbwrdiwkjiejloeadxadliojsvltvjkvq
vahjeqcdjlotlrlqodcbjakjajtvlch,jakjajglncjlojvqnjqanclqkdjdqqok,jaoh
cadqnjakjajbixogjsiwaofjDvqjnqtigoldliojhlhjoidjcqkkqojdvqjnqacldb,jdvq
rilgoaotbjiejdvqjnqpqcadlioj bjaobjkxggqkdliojinjrniwlkqjiejlokda lcldbf
Dvqjrakdjsakjoidvlogjdijvqn;jieeqnqhjoijcqkkiojsvltvjkvqjsakjslcclogjdi
vqqhfjDvqjexdxnqjsakjajwbkdqnbjsvltvjkvqjoqpqnjaddqwrdqhjdijrqoqdnadqf
Dvqjrnqkqodjacioqjsakjklgoleltaod;jsakjvqnk,jdijdindxnqjvqnjakjldjsak
hilogjdvqojsldvjdvqj ldlogjtiopltdliojdvadjkvqjvahjcikdjdvadjsvltvjkvq
vahjvqch,jdvadjkvqjvahj qqojhqolqhjdvadjsvltvjvqnjlwrakklioqh,joqscb
asauqoqhj qlogjhqwaohqhf




YPL


“Hijbixjwlkkjbixnjenlqohjgnqadcb?”jakuqhjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjioqjwinolog
akjkvqjtawqjtnqqrlogjxrj qvlohjQhoa,jsvijvahjzxkdjcqedjvqnjtiddagqjio
vqnjsabjdijdvqj qatvfjKvqjkrqodjwxtvjiejvqnjdlwqjlojdvqjsadqnjklotqjkvq
vahjat.xlnqhjeloaccbjdvqjandjiejkslwwlogfjAkjdvqlnjkdabjadjGnaohjLkcq
hnqsjoqanjldkjtcikq,jkvqjeqcdjdvadjkvqjtixchjoidjglpqjdiijwxtvjdlwqjdija
hlpqnkliojsvltvjaeeinhqhjvqnjdvqjiocbjnqacjrcqakxna cqjwiwqodkjdvadjkvq
uoqsfjSvqojWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjtawqjaohjdixtvqhjvqnjxriojdvqjkvixchqn
aohjkriuqjdijvqn,jdvqjsiwaojkqqwqhjdijqtvijdvqjdvixgvdjsvltvjsakjqpqnjlo
Qhoa'kjwloh;jin,j qddqn,jdvqjeqqclogjsvltvjtiokdaodcbjrikkqkkqhjvqnf

Ni qnd'kjgilogjvahjkiwqjsabjdauqojdvqj nlgvdoqkk,jdvqjticin,jdvqjwqaolog
ixdjiejqpqnbdvlogfjDvqjtiohldliokjiejvqnjcleqjsqnqjlojoijsabjtvaogqh,
 xdjvqnjsvicqjqylkdqotqjsakjhxccqh,jcluqjajeahqhjganwqodjsvltvjkqqwkjdi
 qjoijciogqnjsindvjsqanlogfjKvqjkixgvdjvlwjqpqnbsvqnq--lojidvqnkjsviw
kvqjlohxtqhjdijdacuja ixdjvlwfjKvqjsqodjxrjlojdvqjwinologkjdijWahawq
Cq nxo'kjniiw,j naplogjdvqjtcaddqnjiejdvqjichjkqslog-watvloqfjKvqjkad
dvqnqjaohjtvaddqhjadjlodqnpackjakjNi qndjvahjhioqfjKvqjgamqhjanixoh
dvqjniiwjadjdvqjrltdxnqkjaohjrvidignarvkjvaoglogjxriojdvqjsacc,jaoh
hlktipqnqhjlojkiwqjtinoqnjaojichjeawlcbjac xw,jsvltvjkvqjqyawloqhjsldv
dvqjuqqoqkdjlodqnqkd,jarrqaclogjdijWahawqjCq nxojeinjqoclgvdqowqod
tiotqnologjdvqjwaobjelgxnqkjaohjeatqkjsvltvjkvqjhlktipqnqhj qdsqqojldk
ragqkf

DvqnqjsakjajrltdxnqjiejWahawqjCq nxojsldvjNi qndjakjaj a b,jkqadqhjlo
vqnjcar,jajnixoh-eatqhjloeaodjsldvjajelkdjlojvlkjwixdvfjDvqjqbqkjacioq
lojdvqj a bjkxggqkdqhjdvqjwaofjAohjdvadjsakjvqjackijlojulcdk,jadjdvqjagq
iejelpq,jsqanlogjciogjtxnckjaohjvichlogjajsvlrjlojvlkjvaohfjLdjwahqjQhoa
caxgv,jaohjkvqjcaxgvqh,jdii,jadjdvqjrindnaldjlojvlkjelnkdjciogjdnixkqnk;
svlcqjaoidvqnjlodqnqkdqhjvqn,jdauqojsvqojvqjcqedjeinjticcqgq,jciiulog
dvlo,jciog-eatqh,jsldvjqbqkjexccjiejelnq,jaw ldliojaohjgnqadjlodqodliokf
 xdjdvqnqjsakjoijnqtqodjrltdxnq,joioqjsvltvjkxggqkdqhjdvqjNi qndjsvijvah
gioqjasabjelpqjhabkjagi,jcqaplogjajpilhjaohjslchqnoqkkj qvlohjvlwf

“Iv,jNi qndjkdirrqhjvaplogjvlkjrltdxnqkjdauqojsvqojvqjvahjdijrabjein
dvqwjvlwkqce!jVqjeixohjslkqnjxkqjeinjvlkjwioqb,jvqjkabk,”jqyrcaloqh
WahawqjCq nxofjKvqjvahjajcqddqnjeniwjvlw,jsnlddqoj qeinqjvqjcqedjOqs
IncqaokfjQhoajslkvqhjdijkqqjdvqjcqddqn,jaohjWahawqjCq nxojdichjvqnjdi
ciiujeinjldjqldvqnjiojdvqjda cqjinjdvqjhnqkkqn,jinjrqnvarkjldjsakjiojdvq
waodqcrlqtqf

Dvqjcqddqnjsakjiojdvqj iiukvqcefjLdjrikkqkkqhjdvqjgnqadqkdjlodqnqkdjaoh
addnatdliojeinjQhoa;jdvqjqopqcirq,jldkjklmqjaohjkvarq,jdvqjrikd-wanu,
dvqjvaohsnldlogfjKvqjqyawloqhjqpqnbjhqdalcjiejdvqjixdklhqj qeinqjirqolog
ldfjDvqnqjsqnqjiocbjajeqsjcloqk,jkqddlogjeindvjdvadjvqjsixchjcqapqjdvq
tldbjdvadjaedqnoiio,jdvadjvqjvahjratuqhjvlkjdnxoujlojgiihjkvarq,jdvad
vqjsakjsqcc,jaohjkqodjvqnjvlkjcipqjaohj qggqhjdij qjaeeqtdlioadqcb
nqwqw qnqhjdijaccfjDvqnqjsakjoijkrqtlacjwqkkagqjdijQhoajqytqrdja
rikdktnlrdjkablogjdvadjlejWnkfjRiodqcclqnjhqklnqhjdijelolkvjdvqj iiu
svltvjvqjvahj qqojnqahlogjdijvqn,jvlkjwidvqnjsixchjelohjldjlojvlk
niiw,jawiogjidvqnj iiukjdvqnqjiojdvqjda cqfjQhoajqyrqnlqotqhjajraogjie
zqacixkbj qtaxkqjvqjvahjsnlddqojdijvlkjwidvqnjnadvqnjdvaojdijvqnf

QpqnbjioqjkqqwqhjdijdauqjeinjgnaodqhjdvadjkvqjwlkkqhjvlwfjQpqojvqn
vxk aoh,jsvqojvqjtawqjhisojdvqjKadxnhabjeiccislogjNi qnd'kjhqrandxnq,
qyrnqkkqhjnqgnqdjdvadjvqjvahjgioqf

“Visjhijbixjgqdjiojsldvixdjvlw,jQhoa?”jvqjakuqhf

“Ld'kjpqnbjhxccjsldvixdjvlw,”jkvqjahwlddqhfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjkqqo
Ni qndjlojdvqjtldb,jaohjQhoajakuqhjvlwjajhimqoj.xqkdliokjinjwinqfjSvqnq
vahjdvqbjwqd?jIojTaniohqcqdjKdnqqd,jlojdvqjwinologfjDvqbjvahjgioq
“lo”jaohjvahjajhnloujaohjajtlganjdigqdvqnfjSvadjvahjdvqbjdacuqhja ixd?
Tvlqecbja ixdjvlkjrnikrqtdkjlojWqylti,jsvltvjWnfjRiodqcclqnjdvixgvd
sqnqjrniwlklogfjVisjhlhjvqjciiu?jVisjhlhjvqjkqqw--gnapq,jinjgab,jinjvis?
.xldqjtvqqnexc,jaohjsviccbjdauqojxrjsldvjdvqjlhqajiejvlkjdnlr,jsvltv
WnfjRiodqcclqnjeixohjacdigqdvqnjoadxnacjlojajbixogjeqccisja ixdjdijkqqu
eindxoqjaohjahpqodxnqjlojajkdnaogq,j.xqqnjtixodnbf

Qhoajdarrqhjvqnjeiidjlwradlqodcb,jaohjsiohqnqhjsvbjdvqjtvlchnqo
rqnklkdqhjlojrcablogjlojdvqjkxojsvqojdvqbjwlgvdj qjxohqnjdvqjdnqqkfjKvq
sqodjhisojaohjcqhjdvqwjixdjiejdvqjkxo,jktichlogjdvqj.xahniiojeinjoid
 qlogjwinqjaddqodlpqf

Ldjhlhjoidjkdnluqjvqnjakjlojdvqjcqakdjgnidqk.xqjdvadjkvqjkvixchj q
waulogjiejNi qndjdvqji zqtdjiejtiopqnkadliojaohjcqahlogjvqnjvxk aohjdi
krqaujiejvlwfjDvqjkqodlwqodjsvltvjkvqjqodqndaloqhjeinjNi qndjlojoijsab
nqkqw cqhjdvadjsvltvjkvqjeqcdjeinjvqnjvxk aoh,jinjvahjqpqnjeqcd,jinjqpqn
qyrqtdqhjdijeqqcfjKvqjvahjaccjvqnjcleqjciogj qqojattxkdiwqhjdijvan in
dvixgvdkjaohjqwidliokjsvltvjoqpqnjpiltqhjdvqwkqcpqkfjDvqbjvahjoqpqn
dauqojdvqjeinwjiejkdnxggcqkfjDvqbj qciogqhjdijvqnjaohjsqnqjvqnjiso,jaoh
kvqjqodqndaloqhjdvqjtiopltdliojdvadjkvqjvahjajnlgvdjdijdvqwjaohjdvad
dvqbjtiotqnoqhjoijioqj xdjvqnkqcefjQhoajvahjiotqjdichjWahawqjNadlgoiccq
dvadjkvqjsixchjoqpqnjkatnleltqjvqnkqcejeinjvqnjtvlchnqo,jinjeinjaobjioqf
Dvqojvahjeiccisqhjajnadvqnjvqadqhjangxwqod;jdvqjdsijsiwqojhlhjoidjarrqan
dijxohqnkdaohjqatvjidvqnjinjdij qjdaculogjdvqjkawqjcaogxagqfjQhoajdnlqh
dijarrqakqjvqnjenlqoh,jdijqyrcalof

“Ljsixchjglpqjxrjdvqjxoqkkqodlac;jLjsixchjglpqjwbjwioqb,jLjsixchjglpqjwb
cleqjeinjwbjtvlchnqo;j xdjLjsixcho'djglpqjwbkqcefjLjtao'djwauqjldjwinq
tcqan;jld'kjiocbjkiwqdvlogjsvltvjLjawj qgloologjdijtiwrnqvqoh,jsvltvjlk
nqpqaclogjldkqcejdijwqf”

“Ljhio'djuoisjsvadjbixjsixchjtaccjdvqjqkkqodlac,jinjsvadjbixjwqaoj bjdvq
xoqkkqodlac,”jkalhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq,jtvqqnexccb;j“ xdjajsiwaojsvijsixch
glpqjvqnjcleqjeinjvqnjtvlchnqojtixchjhijoijwinqjdvaojdvad--bixnj l cq
dqcckjbixjkifjL'wjkxnqjLjtixcho'djhijwinqjdvaojdvadf”

“Iv,jbqkjbixjtixch!”jcaxgvqhjQhoaf

KvqjsakjoidjkxnrnlkqhjadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kj.xqkdliojdvqjwinologjdvad
cahb,jeiccislogjvqnjdijdvqj qatv,jdarrqhjvqnjiojdvqjkvixchqnjaohjakuqh
lejkvqjhlhjoidjgnqadcbjwlkkjvqnjbixogjenlqohf

“Iv,jgiihjwinolog,jWahqwilkqccq;jlkjldjbix?jSvb,jiejtixnkqjLjwlkk
Ni qndfjAnqjbixjgilogjhisojdij advq?”

“SvbjkvixchjLjgijhisojdij advqjadjdvqjpqnbjqohjiejdvqjkqakiojsvqojL
vapqo'dj qqojlojdvqjkxnejaccjkxwwqn,”jnqrclqhjdvqjsiwao,jhlkagnqqa cbf

“Lj qgjbixnjranhio,”jieeqnqhjQhoa,jlojkiwqjqw annakkwqod,jeinjkvqjkvixch
vapqjnqwqw qnqhjdvadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjapilhaotqjiejdvqjsadqnjvah
exnolkvqhjajdvqwqjeinjwxtvjrcqakaodnbfjKiwqjawiogjdvqwjdvixgvdjldjsak
iojattixodjiejvqnjeackqjvaln,jinjdvqjhnqahjiejgqddlogjdvqjplicqdkjsqd,
svlcqjidvqnkjaddnl xdqhjldjdijdvqjoadxnacjapqnkliojeinjsadqnjkiwqdlwqk
 qclqpqhjdijattiwraobjdvqjandlkdltjdqwrqnawqodfjWahqwilkqccqjieeqnqh
Qhoajkiwqjtviticadqkjlojajrarqnj ag,jsvltvjkvqjdiiujeniwjvqnjrituqd,
 bjsabjiejkvislogjdvadjkvqj inqjoijlccjeqqclogfjKvqjva ldxaccbjadq
tviticadqkjeinjdvqlnjkxkdalologj.xacldb;jdvqbjtiodaloqhjwxtvjoxdnlwqod
lojkwaccjtiwrakk,jkvqjkalhfjDvqbjkapqhjvqnjeniwjkdanpadlio,jakjWahawq
Cq nxo'kjda cqjsakjxddqncbjlwrikkl cq;jaohjoijioqjkapqjkijlwrqndloqodja
siwaojakjWahawqjCq nxojtixchjdvloujiejieeqnlogjkxtvjeiihjdijrqircqjaoh
nq.xlnlogjdvqwjdijrabjeinjldf

“Kvqjwxkdjeqqcjpqnbjcioqcbjsldvixdjvqnjkio,”jkalhjQhoa,jhqklnlogjdi
tvaogqjdvqjkx zqtdfj“Vqnjeapinldqjkio,jdiifjLdjwxkdjvapqj qqoj.xldqjvanh
dijcqdjvlwjgif”

Wahqwilkqccqjcaxgvqhjwacltlixkcbf

“Vqnjeapinldqjkio!jIv,jhqan!jSvijtixchjvapqj qqojlwriklogjkxtvjajdacq
xriojbix?jAcloqjCq nxojclpqkjeinjPltdin,jaohjeinjPltdinjacioqfjKvqjvak
krilcqhjvlwjlodijdvqjsindvcqkkjtnqadxnqjvqjlkfjKvqjsinkvlrkjvlwjaohjdvq
gnixohjvqjsacukjiofjNi qndjlkjpqnbjsqccjlojajsab,jdijglpqjxrjaccjdvq
wioqbjvqjtaojqanojdijdvqjeawlcb,jaohjuqqrjdvqj anqkdjrlddaotqjein
vlwkqcefjEapinldqjkio,jlohqqh!jLjwlkkjdvqjriinjeqccisjwbkqce,jwbjhqanfjL
cluqhjdijkqqjvlwjaohjdijvqanjvlwja ixdjdvqjrcatqjdvqjiocbjCq nxojsvijlk
sindvjajrlotvjiejkacdfjVqjtiwqkjdijkqqjwqjiedqojlojdvqjtldbfjLjcluq
dijrcabjdijvlwfjDvadjPltdin!jvaoglogjsixchj qjdiijgiihjeinjvlwfjLd'kja
siohqnjNi qndjvako'dj qadqojvlwjdijhqadvjciogjagif”

“Ljdvixgvdjvqjvahjgnqadjradlqotqjsldvjvlkj nidvqn,”jieeqnqhjQhoa,jgcah
dij qjdaculogja ixdjNi qnd,joijwaddqnjsvadjsakjkalhf

“Iv!jvqjdvnakvqhjvlwjsqccjqoixgvjajbqanjinjdsijagi,”jkalhjWahqwilkqccqf
“Ldjsakja ixdjajKraolkvjglnc,jsviwjPltdinjtioklhqnqhjdvadjvqjvahjkiwq
kindjiejtcalwjxriofjVqjwqdjNi qndjioqjhabjdaculogjdijdvqjglnc,jin
saculogjsldvjvqn,jinj advlogjsldvjvqn,jinjtannblogjvqnj akuqd--Ljhio'd
nqwqw qnjsvad;--aohjvqj qtawqjkijlokxcdlogjaohja xklpqjdvadjNi qndjgapq
vlwjajdvnakvlogjiojdvqjkridjdvadjvakjuqrdjvlwjtiwranadlpqcbjlojinhqnjein
ajgiihjsvlcqfjLd'kja ixdjdlwqjvqjsakjgqddlogjaoidvqnf”

“SakjvqnjoawqjWanlq.xlda?”jakuqhjQhoaf

“Wanlq.xlda--bqk,jdvadjsakjld;jWanlq.xldafjLjvahjeingiddqofjIv,jkvq'kja
kcbjioq,jaohjaj ahjioq,jdvadjWanlq.xlda!”

QhoajciiuqhjhisojadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjaohjsiohqnqhjvisjkvqjtixchjvapq
clkdqoqhjdijvqnjpqoiwjkijciogfjEinjkiwqjnqakiojkvqjeqcdjhqrnqkkqh,
acwikdjxovarrbfjKvqjvahjoidjlodqohqhjdijgijlodijdvqjsadqn;j xdjkvq
hiooqhjvqnj advlogjkxld,jaohjcqedjWahqwilkqccqjacioq,jkqadqhjxohqnjdvq
kvahqjiejdvqjtvlchnqo'kjdqodfjDvqjsadqnjsakjgnislogjtiicqnjakjdvqjkqakio
ahpaotqhfjQhoajrcxogqhjaohjksawja ixdjsldvjaoja aohiojdvadjdvnlccqhjaoh
loplginadqhjvqnfjKvqjnqwaloqhjajciogjdlwqjlojdvqjsadqn,jvacejvirlogjdvad
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjsixchjoidjsaldjeinjvqnf

 xdjWahqwilkqccqjsaldqhfjKvqjsakjpqnbjawla cqjhxnlogjdvqjsacuj atu,jaoh
napqhjwxtvjipqnjQhoa'kjarrqanaotqjlojvqnj advlogjkxldfjKvqjdacuqhja ixd
wxkltfjKvqjvirqhjdvadjQhoajsixchjgijdijkqqjvqnjlojdvqjtldb,jaohjsnidq
vqnjahhnqkkjsldvjdvqjkdx jiejajrqotlcjiojajrlqtqjiejtanhjsvltvjkvqjeixoh
lojvqnjrituqdf

“Svqojhijbixjcqapq?”jakuqhjQhoaf

“OqydjWiohab;jaohjbix?”

“Dvqjeiccislogjsqqu,”jaoksqnqhjQhoa,jahhlog,j“Ldjvakj qqojajrcqakaod
kxwwqn,jvako'djld,jWahqwilkqccq?”

“Sqcc,”jagnqqhjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm,jsldvjajkvnxg,j“nadvqnjrcqakaod,jlejld
vaho'dj qqojeinjdvqjwik.xldiqkjaohjdvqjEanlpacjdslokf”




YPLL


DvqjRiodqcclqnkjrikkqkkqhjajpqnbjtvanwlogjviwqjiojQkrcaoahqjKdnqqdjlo
OqsjIncqaokfjLdjsakjajcangq,jhix cqjtiddagq,jsldvjaj niahjeniodjpqnaoha,
svikqjnixoh,jecxdqhjticxwokjkxrrindqhjdvqjkcirlogjniiefjDvqjvixkqjsak
ralodqhjajhammclogjsvldq;jdvqjixdklhqjkvxddqnk,jinjzacixklqk,jsqnq
gnqqofjLojdvqjbanh,jsvltvjsakjuqrdjktnxrxcixkcbjoqad,jsqnqjecisqnkjaoh
rcaodkjiejqpqnbjhqktnlrdliojsvltvjecixnlkvqkjlojKixdvjCixlklaoafjSldvlo
hiinkjdvqjarrilodwqodkjsqnqjrqneqtdjaedqnjdvqjtiopqodlioacjdbrqfjDvq
kiedqkdjtanrqdkjaohjnxgkjtipqnqhjdvqjeciink;jnltvjaohjdakdqexcjhnarqnlqk
vxogjadjhiinkjaohjslohiskfjDvqnqjsqnqjralodlogk,jkqcqtdqhjsldvjzxhgwqod
aohjhlktnlwloadlio,jxriojdvqjsacckfjDvqjtxdjgcakk,jdvqjklcpqn,jdvqjvqapb
hawakujsvltvjhalcbjarrqanqhjxriojdvqjda cqjsqnqjdvqjqopbjiejwaobjsiwqo
svikqjvxk aohkjsqnqjcqkkjgqoqnixkjdvaojWnfjRiodqcclqnf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjsakjpqnbjeiohjiejsaculogja ixdjvlkjvixkqjqyawlologjldk
panlixkjarrilodwqodkjaohjhqdalck,jdijkqqjdvadjoidvlogjsakjawlkkfjVq
gnqadcbjpacxqhjvlkjrikkqkkliok,jtvlqecbj qtaxkqjdvqbjsqnqjvlk,jaoh
hqnlpqhjgqoxloqjrcqakxnqjeniwjtiodqwrcadlogjajralodlog,jajkdadxqddq,ja
nanqjcatqjtxndalo--oijwaddqnjsvad--aedqnjvqjvahj ixgvdjldjaohjrcatqhjld
awiogjvlkjvixkqvichjgihkf

IojDxqkhabjaedqnoiiok--Dxqkhabj qlogjWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjnqtqrdlio
hab--dvqnqjsakjajtiokdaodjkdnqawjiejtaccqnk--siwqojsvijtawqjlojtannlagqk
injlojdvqjkdnqqdjtank,jinjsacuqhjsvqojdvqjalnjsakjkiedjaohjhlkdaotq
rqnwlddqhfjAjclgvd-ticinqhjwxcaddij ib,jlojhnqkkjtiadjaohj qanlogja
hlwloxdlpqjklcpqnjdnabjeinjdvqjnqtqrdliojiejtanhk,jahwlddqhjdvqwfjA
walh,jlojsvldqjecxdqhjtar,jieeqnqhjdvqjtaccqnkjcl.xqxn,jtieeqq,jin
tviticadq,jakjdvqbjwlgvdjhqklnqfjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaddlnqhjlojajvaohkiwq
nqtqrdliojgiso,jnqwaloqhjlojdvqjhnaslog-niiwjdvqjqodlnqjaedqnoiio
nqtqlplogjvqnjplkldinkfjWqojkiwqdlwqkjtaccqhjlojdvqjqpqologjsldvjdvqln
slpqkf

Dvlkjvahj qqojdvqjrnignawwqjsvltvjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjvahjnqclglixkcb
eiccisqhjklotqjvqnjwannlagq,jklyjbqankj qeinqfjTqndalojqpqologkjhxnlog
dvqjsqqujkvqjaohjvqnjvxk aohjaddqohqhjdvqjirqnajinjkiwqdlwqkjdvqjrcabf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjcqedjvlkjviwqjlojdvqjwinologkj qdsqqojoloqjaohjdqo
i'tcitu,jaohjnanqcbjnqdxnoqhj qeinqjvace-rakdjklyjinjkqpqojlojdvq
qpqolog--hlooqnj qlogjkqnpqhjadjvace-rakdjkqpqof

Vqjaohjvlkjsleqjkqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjadjda cqjioqjDxqkhabjqpqolog,jajeqs
sqqukjaedqnjdvqlnjnqdxnojeniwjGnaohjLkcqfjDvqbjsqnqjacioqjdigqdvqnf
Dvqj ibkjsqnqj qlogjrxdjdij qh;jdvqjraddqnjiejdvqlnj anq,jqktarlog
eqqdjtixchj qjvqanhjittaklioaccb,jakjsqccjakjdvqjrxnkxlogjpiltqjiejdvq
.xahniio,jcledqhjlojwlchjrnidqkdjaohjqodnqadbfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjhlhjoid
sqanjvqnjxkxacjDxqkhabjnqtqrdliojgiso;jkvqjsakjlojinhloanbjvixkqjhnqkkf
WnfjRiodqcclqn,jsvijsakji kqnpaodja ixdjkxtvjdvlogk,joidltqhjld,jakjvq
kqnpqhjdvqjkixrjaohjvaohqhjldjdijdvqj ibjlojsaldlogf

“Dlnqhjixd,jQhoa?jSviwjhlhjbixjvapq?jWaobjtaccqnk?”jvqjakuqhfjVq
dakdqhjvlkjkixrjaohj qgaojdijkqakiojldjsldvjrqrrqn,jkacd,jploqgan,
wxkdanh--qpqnbdvlogjsldvlojnqatvf

“Dvqnqjsqnqjajgiihjwaob,”jnqrclqhjQhoa,jsvijsakjqadlogjvqnjkixrjsldv
qplhqodjkadlkeatdliofj“LjeixohjdvqlnjtanhkjsvqojLjgidjviwq;jLjsakjixdf”

“Ixd!”jqytcalwqhjvqnjvxk aoh,jsldvjkiwqdvlogjcluqjgqoxloqjtiokdqnoadlio
lojvlkjpiltqjakjvqjcalhjhisojdvqjploqganjtnxqdjaohjciiuqhjadjvqnjdvnixgv
vlkjgcakkqkfj“Svb,jsvadjtixchjvapqjdauqojbixjixdjiojDxqkhab?jSvadjhlh
bixjvapqjdijhi?”

“OidvlogfjLjklwrcbjeqcdjcluqjgilogjixd,jaohjLjsqodjixdf”

“Sqcc,jLjvirqjbixjcqedjkiwqjkxlda cqjqytxkq,”jkalhjvqnjvxk aoh,jkiwqsvad
arrqakqh,jakjvqjahhqhjajhakvjiejtabqooqjrqrrqnjdijdvqjkixrf

“Oi,jLjcqedjoijqytxkqfjLjdichjZiqjdijkabjLjsakjixd,jdvadjsakjaccf”

“Svb,jwbjhqan,jLjkvixchjdvloujbix'hjxohqnkdaohj bjdvlkjdlwqjdvadjrqircq
hio'djhijkxtvjdvlogk;jsq'pqjgidjdiji kqnpqjcqkjtiopqoaotqkjlejsqjqpqn
qyrqtdjdijgqdjiojaohjuqqrjxrjsldvjdvqjrnitqkkliofjLejbixjeqcdjdvadjbix
vahjdijcqapqjviwqjdvlkjaedqnoiio,jbixjkvixchjvapqjcqedjkiwqjkxlda cq
qyrcaoadliojeinjbixnja kqotqf

“Dvlkjkixrjlkjnqaccbjlwrikkl cq;jld'kjkdnaogqjdvadjsiwaojvako'djcqanoqh
bqdjdijwauqjajhqtqodjkixrfjAobjenqq-cxotvjkdaohjlojdisojkqnpqkjaj qddqn
ioqfjSakjWnkfj qcdvnirjvqnq?”

“ nlogjdvqjdnabjsldvjdvqjtanhk,jZiqfjLjhio'djnqwqw qnjsvijsakjvqnqf”

Dvqj ibjnqdlnqhjaohjnqdxnoqhjaedqnjajwiwqod,j nloglogjdvqjdlobjklcpqn
dnab,jsvltvjsakjtipqnqhjsldvjcahlqk'jplkldlogjtanhkfjVqjvaohqhjldjdi
WnkfjRiodqcclqnf

“GlpqjldjdijWnfjRiodqcclqn,”jkvqjkalhf

ZiqjieeqnqhjdvqjdnabjdijWnfjRiodqcclqn,jaohjnqwipqhjdvqjkixrf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjktaooqhjdvqjoawqkjiejvlkjsleq'kjtaccqnk,jnqahlogjkiwqjie
dvqwjacixh,jsldvjtiwwqodkjakjvqjnqahf

“'DvqjWlkkqkjHqcaklhakf'jLjsinuqhjaj lgjhqacjlojexdxnqkjeinjdvqlnjeadvqn
dvlkjwinolog;joltqjglnck;jld'kjdlwqjdvqbjsqnqjgqddlogjwannlqhfj'Wnkf
 qcdvnirf'jLjdqccjbixjsvadjldjlk,jQhoa;jbixjtao'djaeeinhjdijkox jWnkf
 qcdvnirfjSvb,j qcdvnirjtixchj xbjaohjkqccjxkjdqojdlwqkjipqnfjVlk
 xkloqkkjlkjsindvjajgiih,jnixohjkxwjdijwqfjBix'hj qddqnjsnldqjvqnja
oidqfj'WnkfjZawqkjVlgvtawrf'jVxgv!jdvqjcqkkjbixjvapqjdijhijsldvjWnkf
Vlgvtawr,jdvqj qddqnfj'WahawqjCaeintqf'jTawqjaccjdvqjsabjeniwjTannicdio,
dii,jriinjichjkixcfj'WlkkjSlggk,'j'WnkfjQcqaoinj icdiokf'”jVqjrxkvqhjdvq
tanhkjaklhqf

“Wqntb!”jqytcalwqhjQhoa,jsvijvahj qqojexwlogfj“Svbjanqjbixjdaulogjdvq
dvlogjkijkqnlixkcbjaohjwaulogjkxtvjajexkkjipqnjld?”

“L'wjoidjwaulogjaobjexkkjipqnjldfj xdjld'kjzxkdjkxtvjkqqwlogjdnlecqk
dvadjsq'pqjgidjdijdauqjkqnlixkcb;jkxtvjdvlogkjtixodf”

DvqjelkvjsakjktintvqhfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjsixchjoidjdixtvjldfjQhoajkalhjkvq
hlhjoidjwlohjajclddcqjktintvqhjdakdqfjDvqjniakdjsakjlojkiwqjsabjoidjdi
vlkjeaotb,jaohjvqjhlhjoidjcluqjdvqjwaooqnjlojsvltvjdvqjpqgqda cqkjsqnq
kqnpqhf

“Ldjkqqwkjdijwq,”jvqjkalh,j“sqjkrqohjwioqbjqoixgvjlojdvlkjvixkqjdi
rnitxnqjadjcqakdjioqjwqacjajhabjsvltvjajwaojtixchjqadjaohjnqdalojvlk
kqce-nqkrqtdf”

“Bixjxkqhjdijdvloujdvqjtiiujsakjajdnqakxnq,”jnqdxnoqhjQhoa,
lohleeqnqodcbf

“Rqnvarkjkvqjsakjsvqojkvqjelnkdjtawq;j xdjtiiukjanqjiocbjvxwaofjDvqb
oqqhjciiulogjaedqn,jcluqjaobjidvqnjtcakkjiejrqnkiokjdvadjbixjqwrcibf
KxrrikqjLjhlho'djciiujaedqnjdvqjtcqnukjlojwbjieeltq,jzxkdjcqdjdvqw
nxojdvlogkjdvqlnjisojsab;jdvqb'hjkiiojwauqjajoltqjwqkkjiejwqjaohjwb
 xkloqkkf”

“Svqnqjanqjbixjgilog?”jakuqhjQhoa,jkqqlogjdvadjvqnjvxk aohjanikq
eniwjda cqjsldvixdjvaplogjqadqojajwinkqcjqytqrdjajdakdqjiejdvq
vlgvcb-kqakioqhjkixrf

“L'wjgilogjdijgqdjwbjhlooqnjadjdvqjtcx fjGiihjolgvdf”jVqjsqodjlodijdvq
vacc,jdiiujvlkjvadjaohjkdltujeniwjdvqjkdaoh,jaohjcqedjdvqjvixkqf

KvqjsakjkiwqsvadjeawlclanjsldvjkxtvjktqoqkfjDvqbjvahjiedqojwahqjvqnjpqnb
xovarrbfjIojajeqsjrnqplixkjittakliokjkvqjvahj qqojtiwrcqdqcbjhqrnlpqhjie
aobjhqklnqjdijelolkvjvqnjhlooqnfjKiwqdlwqkjkvqjvahjgioqjlodijdvqjuldtvqo
dijahwlolkdqnjajdanhbjnq xuqjdijdvqjtiiufjIotqjkvqjsqodjdijvqnjniiwjaoh
kdxhlqhjdvqjtiiu iiujhxnlogjaojqodlnqjqpqolog,jeloaccbjsnldlogjixdja
wqoxjeinjdvqjsqqu,jsvltvjcqedjvqnjvanakkqhjsldvjajeqqclogjdvad,jaedqn
acc,jkvqjvahjattiwrclkvqhjoijgiihjdvadjsakjsindvjdvqjoawqf

 xdjdvadjqpqologjQhoajelolkvqhjvqnjhlooqnjacioq,jsldvjeintqh
hqcl qnadliofjVqnjeatqjsakjecxkvqhjaohjvqnjqbqkjecawqhjsldvjkiwqjlosanh
elnqjdvadjclgvdqhjdvqwfjAedqnjelolkvlogjvqnjhlooqnjkvqjsqodjdijvqn
niiw,jvaplogjlokdnxtdqhjdvqj ibjdijdqccjaobjidvqnjtaccqnkjdvadjkvqjsak
lohlkrikqhf

Ldjsakjajcangq,j qaxdlexcjniiw,jnltvjaohjrltdxnqk.xqjlojdvqjkied,jhlw
clgvdjsvltvjdvqjwalhjvahjdxnoqhjcisfjKvqjsqodjaohjkdiihjadjaojirqo
slohisjaohjciiuqhjixdjxriojdvqjhqqrjdaogcqjiejdvqjganhqoj qcisfjAccjdvq
wbkdqnbjaohjsldtvqnbjiejdvqjolgvdjkqqwqhjdijvapqjgadvqnqhjdvqnqjawlhjdvq
rqnexwqkjaohjdvqjhxkubjaohjdindxixkjixdcloqkjiejecisqnkjaohjeiclagqf
Kvqjsakjkqqulogjvqnkqcejaohjelohlogjvqnkqcejlojzxkdjkxtvjksqqd,
vace-hanuoqkkjsvltvjwqdjvqnjwiihkfj xdjdvqjpiltqkjsqnqjoidjkiidvlog
dvadjtawqjdijvqnjeniwjdvqjhanuoqkkjaohjdvqjkubja ipqjaohjdvqjkdankfjDvqb
zqqnqhjaohjkixohqhjwixnoexcjoidqkjsldvixdjrniwlkq,jhqpilhjqpqojiejvirqf
Kvqjdxnoqhj atujlodijdvqjniiwjaohj qgaojdijsacujdijaohjenijhisojldk
svicqjcqogdvjsldvixdjkdirrlog,jsldvixdjnqkdlogfjKvqjtannlqhjlojvqn
vaohkjajdvlojvaohuqntvlqe,jsvltvjkvqjdinqjlodijnl  iok,jniccqhjlodija
 acc,jaohjecxogjeniwjvqnfjIotqjkvqjkdirrqh,jaohjdaulogjieejvqnjsqhhlog
nlog,jecxogjldjxriojdvqjtanrqdfjSvqojkvqjkasjldjcblogjdvqnq,jkvqjkdawrqh
vqnjvqqcjxriojld,jkdnlplogjdijtnxkvjldfj xdjvqnjkwaccj iidjvqqcjhlhjoid
wauqjaojlohqodxnq,joidjajwanujxriojdvqjclddcqjgclddqnlogjtlntcqdf

Lojajksqqrlogjrakkliojkvqjkqlmqhjajgcakkjpakqjeniwjdvqjda cqjaohjecxog
ldjxriojdvqjdlcqkjiejdvqjvqandvfjKvqjsaodqhjdijhqkdnibjkiwqdvlogfjDvq
tnakvjaohjtcaddqnjsqnqjsvadjkvqjsaodqhjdijvqanf

Ajwalh,jacanwqhjadjdvqjhlojiej nqaulogjgcakk,jqodqnqhjdvqjniiwjdi
hlktipqnjsvadjsakjdvqjwaddqnf

“Ajpakqjeqccjxriojdvqjvqandv,”jkalhjQhoafj“Oqpqnjwloh;jcqapqjldjdlcc
winologf”

“Iv!jbixjwlgvdjgqdjkiwqjiejdvqjgcakkjlojbixnjeqqd,jwa'aw,”jloklkdqhjdvq
bixogjsiwao,jrltulogjxrj ldkjiejdvqj niuqojpakqjdvadjsqnqjktaddqnqhjxrio
dvqjtanrqdfj“Aohjvqnq'kjbixnjnlog,jwa'aw,jxohqnjdvqjtvalnf”

Qhoajvqchjixdjvqnjvaoh,jaohjdaulogjdvqjnlog,jkclrrqhjldjxriojvqnjelogqnf




YPLLL


DvqjeiccislogjwinologjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jxriojcqaplogjeinjvlkjieeltq,jakuqh
Qhoajlejkvqjsixchjoidjwqqdjvlwjlojdisojlojinhqnjdijciiujadjkiwqjoqs
elydxnqkjeinjdvqjcl nanbf

“Ljvanhcbjdvloujsqjoqqhjoqsjelydxnqk,jCqiotqfjHio'djcqdjxkjgqdjaobdvlog
oqs;jbixjanqjdiijqydnapagaodfjLjhio'dj qclqpqjbixjqpqnjdvloujiejkaplog
injrxddlogj bf”

“Dvqjsabjdij qtiwqjnltvjlkjdijwauqjwioqb,jwbjhqanjQhoa,joidjdijkapqjld,”
jvqjkalhfjVqjnqgnqddqhjdvadjkvqjhlhjoidjeqqcjlotcloqhjdijgijsldvjvlwjaoh
kqcqtdjoqsjelydxnqkfjVqjulkkqhjvqnjgiih- b,jaohjdichjvqnjkvqjsakjoid
ciiulogjsqccjaohjwxkdjdauqjtanqjiejvqnkqcefjKvqjsakjxoxkxaccbjracqjaoh
pqnbj.xlqdf

Kvqjkdiihjiojdvqjeniodjpqnaohajakjvqj.xlddqhjdvqjvixkq,jaohja kqodcb
rltuqhjajeqsjkrnabkjiejzqkkawloqjdvadjgnqsjxriojajdnqcclkjoqanj bfjKvq
lovacqhjdvqjihinjiejdvqj cikkiwkjaohjdvnxkdjdvqwjlodijdvqj ikiwjiejvqn
svldqjwinologjgisofjDvqj ibkjsqnqjhnagglogjaciogjdvqj ao.xqddqjajkwacc
“qyrnqkkjsagio,”jsvltvjdvqbjvahjelccqhjsldvj citukjaohjkdltukfjDvq
.xahniiojsakjeiccislogjdvqwjsldvjclddcqj.xltujkdqrk,jvaplogjakkxwqhja
eltdldlixkjaolwadliojaohjacatnldbjeinjdvqjittakliofjAjenxldjpqohqnjsak
tnblogjvlkjsanqkjlojdvqjkdnqqdf

Qhoajciiuqhjkdnalgvdj qeinqjvqnjsldvjajkqce-a kin qhjqyrnqkkliojxrio
vqnjeatqfjKvqjeqcdjoijlodqnqkdjlojaobdvlogja ixdjvqnfjDvqjkdnqqd,jdvq
tvlchnqo,jdvqjenxldjpqohqn,jdvqjecisqnkjgnislogjdvqnqjxohqnjvqnjqbqk,
sqnqjaccjrandjaohjrantqcjiejaojaclqojsinchjsvltvjvahjkxhhqocbj qtiwq
aodagiolkdltf

Kvqjsqodj atujlodijdvqjvixkqfjKvqjvahjdvixgvdjiejkrqaulogjdijdvqjtiiu
tiotqnologjvqnj cxohqnkjiejdvqjrnqplixkjolgvd;j xdjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvah
kapqhjvqnjdvadjhlkagnqqa cqjwlkklio,jeinjsvltvjkvqjsakjkijriincbjelddqhf
WnfjRiodqcclqn'kjangxwqodkjsqnqjxkxaccbjtioplotlogjsldvjdvikqjsviwjvq
qwrcibqhfjVqjcqedjviwqjeqqclogj.xldqjkxnqjdvadjvqjaohjQhoajsixchjkld
hisojdvadjqpqolog,jaohjrikkl cbjajeqsjkx kq.xqodjqpqologk,jdijajhlooqn
hqkqnplogjiejdvqjoawqf

Qhoajkrqodjaojvixnjinjdsijlojciiulogjipqnjkiwqjiejvqnjichjkuqdtvqkf
Kvqjtixchjkqqjdvqlnjkvindtiwlogkjaohjhqeqtdk,jsvltvjsqnqjgcanlogjlojvqn
qbqkfjKvqjdnlqhjdijsinujajclddcq,j xdjeixohjkvqjsakjoidjlojdvqjvxwinf
Eloaccbjkvqjgadvqnqhjdigqdvqnjajeqsjiejdvqjkuqdtvqk--dvikqjsvltvjkvq
tioklhqnqhjdvqjcqakdjhlktnqhlda cq;jaohjkvqjtannlqhjdvqwjsldvjvqnjsvqo,
ajclddcqjcadqn,jkvqjhnqkkqhjaohjcqedjdvqjvixkqfjKvqjciiuqhjvaohkiwqjaoh
hlkdlogxlkvqhjlojvqnjkdnqqdjgisofjDvqjdaojiejdvqjkqakvinqjvahjcqed
vqnjeatq,jaohjvqnjeinqvqahjsakjkwiidv,jsvldq,jaohjriclkvqhj qoqadvjvqn
vqapb,jbqccis- nisojvalnfjDvqnqjsqnqjajeqsjenqtucqkjiojvqnjeatq,jaohja
kwacc,jhanujwicqjoqanjdvqjxohqnjclrjaohjioqjiojdvqjdqwrcq,jvace-vlhhqo
lojvqnjvalnf

AkjQhoajsacuqhjaciogjdvqjkdnqqdjkvqjsakjdvloulogjiejNi qndfjKvqjsak
kdlccjxohqnjdvqjkrqccjiejvqnjloeadxadliofjKvqjvahjdnlqhjdijeingqdjvlw,
nqaclmlogjdvqjloxdlcldbjiejnqwqw qnlogfj xdjdvqjdvixgvdjiejvlwjsakjcluq
aoji kqkklio,jqpqnjrnqkklogjldkqcejxriojvqnfjLdjsakjoidjdvadjkvqjhsqcd
xriojhqdalckjiejdvqlnjat.xalodaotq,jinjnqtaccqhjlojaobjkrqtlacjin
rqtxclanjsabjvlkjrqnkioacldb;jldjsakjvlkj qlog,jvlkjqylkdqotq,jsvltv
hiwloadqhjvqnjdvixgvd,jeahlogjkiwqdlwqkjakjlejldjsixchjwqcdjlodijdvq
wlkdjiejdvqjeingiddqo,jnqplplogjagalojsldvjaojlodqokldbjsvltvjelccqhjvqn
sldvjaojlotiwrnqvqokl cqjcioglogf

QhoajsakjiojvqnjsabjdijWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kfjDvqlnjlodlwatb,j qgxojad
GnaohjLkcq,jvahjoidjhqtcloqh,jaohjdvqbjvahjkqqojqatvjidvqnjsldvjkiwq
enq.xqotbjklotqjdvqlnjnqdxnojdijdvqjtldbfjDvqjNadlgoiccqkjclpqhjadjoi
gnqadjhlkdaotqjeniwjQhoa'kjviwq,jiojdvqjtinoqnjiejajklhqjkdnqqd,jsvqnq
WioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjisoqhjaohjtiohxtdqhjajhnxgjkdinqjsvltvjqozibqhja
kdqahbjaohjrnikrqnixkjdnahqfjVlkjeadvqnjvahj qqojlojdvqj xkloqkkj qeinq
vlw,jaohjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjkdiihjsqccjlojdvqjtiwwxoldbjaohj inqjao
qopla cqjnqrxdadliojeinjlodqgnldbjaohjtcqanvqahqhoqkkfjVlkjeawlcbjclpqh
lojtiwwihlixkjarandwqodkjipqnjdvqjkdinq,jvaplogjaojqodnaotqjiojdvqjklhq
sldvlojdvqjrindqjtitvqnqfjDvqnqjsakjkiwqdvlogjsvltvjQhoajdvixgvdjpqnb
Enqotv,jpqnbjeinqlgo,ja ixdjdvqlnjsvicqjwaooqnjiejclplogfjLojdvqjcangq
aohjrcqakaodjkaciojsvltvjqydqohqhjatnikkjdvqjslhdvjiejdvqjvixkq,jdvq
Nadlgoiccqkjqodqndaloqhjdvqlnjenlqohkjiotqjajeindolgvdjsldvjajkilnqq
wxkltacq,jkiwqdlwqkjhlpqnklelqhj bjtanh-rcablogfjDvqnqjsakjajenlqohjsvi
rcabqhjxriojdvqj'tqccifjIoqj nixgvdjvlkjecxdqjaohjaoidvqnjvlkjpliclo,
svlcqjdvqnqjsqnqjkiwqjsvijkaogjaohjajoxw qnjsvijrqneinwqhjxriojdvqjrlaoi
sldvjpanlixkjhqgnqqkjiejdakdqjaohjaglcldbfjDvqjNadlgoiccqk'jkilnqqk
wxkltacqkjsqnqjslhqcbjuoiso,jaohjldjsakjtioklhqnqhjajrnlplcqgqjdij q
lopldqhjdijdvqwf

Qhoajeixohjvqnjenlqohjqogagqhjlojakkindlogjdvqjtcidvqkjsvltvjvah
nqdxnoqhjdvadjwinologjeniwjdvqjcaxohnbfjKvqjadjiotqja aohioqhjvqn
ittxradliojxriojkqqlogjQhoa,jsvijvahj qqojxkvqnqhjsldvixdjtqnqwiobjlodi
vqnjrnqkqotqf

“'TldqjtaojhijldjakjsqccjakjL;jldjlkjnqaccbjvqnj xkloqkk,”jkvqjqyrcaloqh
dijQhoa,jsvijariciglmqhjeinjlodqnnxrdlogjvqnfjAohjkvqjkxwwioqhjajbixog
 catujsiwao,jsviwjkvqjlokdnxtdqh,jlojEnqotv,jdij qjpqnbjtanqexcjlo
tvqtulogjieejdvqjclkdjsvltvjkvqjvaohqhjvqnfjKvqjdichjvqnjdijoidltq
randltxcancbjlejajeloqjcloqojvaohuqntvlqejiejWioklqxnjNadlgoiccq'k,
svltvjsakjwlkklogjcakdjsqqu,jvahj qqojnqdxnoqh;jaohjdij qjkxnqjdijkqdjdi
ioqjklhqjkxtvjrlqtqkjakjnq.xlnqhjwqohlogjaohjhanologf

DvqojrcatlogjaojanwjanixohjQhoa'kjsalkd,jkvqjcqhjvqnjdijdvqjeniodjiejdvq
vixkq,jdijdvqjkacio,jsvqnqjldjsakjtiicjaohjksqqdjsldvjdvqjihinjiejgnqad
nikqkjdvadjkdiihjxriojdvqjvqandvjlojzankf

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjciiuqhjwinqj qaxdlexcjdvaojqpqnjdvqnqjadjviwq,jloja
oqgclgqjsvltvjcqedjvqnjanwkjacwikdjsviccbj anqjaohjqyrikqhjdvqjnltv,
wqcdlogjtxnpqkjiejvqnjsvldqjdvniadf

“RqnvarkjLjkvaccj qja cqjdijralodjbixnjrltdxnqjkiwqjhab,”jkalhjQhoajsldv
ajkwlcqjsvqojdvqbjsqnqjkqadqhfjKvqjrnihxtqhjdvqjniccjiejkuqdtvqkjaoh
kdandqhjdijxoeichjdvqwfj“Lj qclqpqjLjixgvdjdijsinujagalofjLjeqqcjakjlejL
saodqhjdij qjhilogjkiwqdvlogfjSvadjhijbixjdvloujiejdvqw?jHijbixjdvloujld
sindvjsvlcqjdijdauqjldjxrjagalojaohjkdxhbjkiwqjwinq?jLjwlgvdjkdxhbjeinja
svlcqjsldvjCalhrinqf”

KvqjuoqsjdvadjWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjirloliojlojkxtvjajwaddqnjsixchj qjoqyd
dijpacxqcqkk,jdvadjkvqjvqnkqcejvahjoidjacioqjhqtlhqh,j xdjhqdqnwloqh;
 xdjkvqjkixgvdjdvqjsinhkjiejrnalkqjaohjqotixnagqwqodjdvadjsixchjvqcrjvqn
dijrxdjvqandjlodijvqnjpqodxnqf

“Bixnjdacqodjlkjlwwqokq,jhqan!”

“Oiokqokq!”jrnidqkdqhjQhoa,jsqccjrcqakqhf

“Lwwqokq,jLjdqccjbix,”jrqnklkdqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq,jkxnpqblogjdvq
kuqdtvqkjioqj bjioq,jadjtcikqjnaogq,jdvqojvichlogjdvqwjadjanw'kjcqogdv,
oannislogjvqnjqbqk,jaohjhnirrlogjvqnjvqahjiojioqjklhqfj“Kxnqcb,jdvlk
 apanlaojrqakaodjlkjsindvbjiejenawlog;jaohjdvlkj akuqdjiejarrcqk!joqpqn
vapqjLjkqqojaobdvlogjwinqjcleqcluqfjIoqjwlgvdjacwikdj qjdqwrdqhjdijnqatv
ixdjajvaohjaohjdauqjioqf”

Qhoajtixchjoidjtiodnicjajeqqclogjsvltvj inhqnqhjxriojtiwrcatqotbjad
vqnjenlqoh'kjrnalkq,jqpqojnqaclmlog,jakjkvqjhlh,jldkjdnxqjsindvf
Kvqjnqdaloqhjajeqsjiejdvqjkuqdtvqk,jaohjgapqjaccjdvqjnqkdjdijWahawq
Nadlgoiccq,jsvijarrnqtladqhjdvqjgledjeanj qbiohjldkjpacxqjaohjrnixhcb
qyvl ldqhjdvqjrltdxnqkjdijvqnjvxk aohjsvqojvqjtawqjxrjeniwjdvqjkdinqja
clddcqjcadqnjeinjvlkjwlhhabjhlooqnf

WnfjNadlgoiccqjsakjioqjiejdvikqjwqojsvijanqjtaccqhjdvqjkacdjiejdvq
qandvfjVlkjtvqqnexcoqkkjsakjxo ixohqh,jaohjldjsakjwadtvqhj bjvlk
giihoqkkjiejvqand,jvlkj niahjtvanldb,jaohjtiwwiojkqokqfjVqjaohjvlkjsleq
kriuqjQogclkvjsldvjaojattqodjsvltvjsakjiocbjhlktqnol cqjdvnixgvjldk
xo-Qogclkvjqwrvaklkjaohjajtqndalojtanqexcoqkkjaohjhqcl qnadliof
Qhoa'kjvxk aohjkriuqjQogclkvjsldvjoijattqodjsvadqpqnfjDvqjNadlgoiccqk
xohqnkdiihjqatvjidvqnjrqneqtdcbfjLejqpqnjdvqjexkliojiejdsijvxwaoj qlogk
lodijioqjvakj qqojattiwrclkvqhjiojdvlkjkrvqnqjldjsakjkxnqcbjlojdvqln
xoliof

AkjQhoajkqadqhjvqnkqcejadjda cqjsldvjdvqwjkvqjdvixgvd,j“ qddqnjajhlooqn
iejvqn k,”jdvixgvjldjhlhjoidjdauqjvqnjciogjdijhlktipqnjdvadjldjsakjoi
hlooqnjiejvqn k,j xdjajhqcltlixkjnqrakd,jklwrcq,jtviltq,jaohjlojqpqnb
sabjkadlkeblogf

WioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsakjhqclgvdqhjdijkqqjvqn,jdvixgvjvqjeixohjvqn
ciiulogjoidjkijsqccjakjadjGnaohjLkcq,jaohjvqjahplkqhjajdioltfjVqjdacuqh
ajgiihjhqacjiojpanlixkjdirltk,jajclddcqjricldltk,jkiwqjtldbjoqskjaoh
oqlgv inviihjgikklrfjVqjkriuqjsldvjaojaolwadliojaohjqanoqkdoqkkjdvad
gapqjaojqyaggqnadqhjlwrindaotqjdijqpqnbjkbcca cqjvqjxddqnqhfjVlkjsleq
sakjuqqocbjlodqnqkdqhjlojqpqnbdvlogjvqjkalh,jcablogjhisojvqnjeinujdvq
 qddqnjdijclkdqo,jtvlwlogjlo,jdaulogjdvqjsinhkjixdjiejvlkjwixdvf

QhoajeqcdjhqrnqkkqhjnadvqnjdvaojkiidvqhjaedqnjcqaplogjdvqwfjDvqjclddcq
gclwrkqjiejhiwqkdltjvanwiobjsvltvjvahj qqojieeqnqhjvqn,jgapqjvqnjoi
nqgnqd,joijcioglogfjLdjsakjoidjajtiohldliojiejcleqjsvltvjelddqhjvqn,jaoh
kvqjtixchjkqqjlojldj xdjaojarracclogjaohjvirqcqkkjqooxlfjKvqjsakjwipqh
 bjajulohjiejtiwwlkqnadliojeinjWahawqjNadlgoiccq,--ajrldbjeinjdvad
ticincqkkjqylkdqotqjsvltvjoqpqnjxrcledqhjldkjrikkqkkinj qbiohjdvqjnqglio
iej clohjtiodqodwqod,jlojsvltvjoijwiwqodjiejaogxlkvjqpqnjplkldqhjvqn
kixc,jlojsvltvjkvqjsixchjoqpqnjvapqjdvqjdakdqjiejcleq'kjhqclnlxwfjQhoa
pagxqcbjsiohqnqhjsvadjkvqjwqaodj bj“cleq'kjhqclnlxwf”jLdjvahjtnikkqhjvqn
dvixgvdjcluqjkiwqjxokixgvd,jqydnaoqixkjlwrnqkkliof




YLY


Qhoajtixchjoidjvqcrj xdjdvloujdvadjldjsakjpqnbjeiiclkv,jpqnbjtvlchlkv,
dijvapqjkdawrqhjxriojvqnjsqhhlogjnlogjaohjkwakvqhjdvqjtnbkdacjpakqjxrio
dvqjdlcqkfjKvqjsakjplkldqhj bjoijwinqjixd xnkdk,jwiplogjvqnjdijkxtv
exdlcqjqyrqhlqodkfjKvqj qgaojdijhijakjkvqjcluqhjaohjdijeqqcjakjkvq
cluqhfjKvqjtiwrcqdqcbja aohioqhjvqnjDxqkhabkjadjviwq,jaohjhlhjoidjnqdxno
dvqjplkldkjiejdvikqjsvijvahjtaccqhjxriojvqnfjKvqjwahqjoijloqeeqtdxac
qeeindkjdijtiohxtdjvqnjvixkqvichjqoj iooqjwqoagqnq,jgilogjaohjtiwlogjak
ldjkxldqhjvqnjeaotb,jaoh,jkijeanjakjkvqjsakja cq,jcqohlogjvqnkqcejdijaob
rakklogjtarnltqf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjvahj qqojajnadvqnjtixndqixkjvxk aohjkijciogjakjvqjwqd
ajtqndalojdatldjkx wlkklpqoqkkjlojvlkjsleqfj xdjvqnjoqsjaohjxoqyrqtdqh
cloqjiejtiohxtdjtiwrcqdqcbj qslchqnqhjvlwfjLdjkvituqhjvlwfjDvqojvqn
a kicxdqjhlknqganhjeinjvqnjhxdlqkjakjajsleqjaogqnqhjvlwfjSvqojWnf
Riodqcclqnj qtawqjnxhq,jQhoajgnqsjlokicqodfjKvqjvahjnqkicpqhjoqpqnjdi
dauqjaoidvqnjkdqrj atusanhf

“Ldjkqqwkjdijwqjdvqjxdwikdjeiccbjeinjajsiwaojadjdvqjvqahjiejajvixkqvich,
aohjdvqjwidvqnjiejtvlchnqo,jdijkrqohjlojaojadqclqnjhabkjsvltvjsixchj q
 qddqnjqwrcibqhjtiodnlplogjeinjdvqjtiweindjiejvqnjeawlcbf”

“Ljeqqcjcluqjralodlog,”jaoksqnqhjQhoafj“RqnvarkjLjkvao'djacsabkjeqqc
cluqjldf”

“DvqojlojGih'kjoawqjralod!j xdjhio'djcqdjdvqjeawlcbjgijdijdvqjhqplcf
Dvqnq'kjWahawqjNadlgoiccq;j qtaxkqjkvqjuqqrkjxrjvqnjwxklt,jkvqjhiqko'd
cqdjqpqnbdvlogjqckqjgijdijtvaikfjAohjkvq'kjwinqjiejajwxkltlaojdvaojbix
anqjajralodqnf”

“Kvqjlko'djajwxkltlao,jaohjL'wjoidjajralodqnfjLdjlko'djiojattixodjie
ralodlogjdvadjLjcqdjdvlogkjgif”

“Iojattixodjiejsvad,jdvqo?”

“Iv!jLjhio'djuoisfjCqdjwqjacioq;jbixj idvqnjwqf”

LdjkiwqdlwqkjqodqnqhjWnfjRiodqcclqn'kjwlohjdijsiohqnjlejvlkjsleqjsqnq
oidjgnislogjajclddcqjxo acaotqhjwqodaccbfjVqjtixchjkqqjrcalocbjdvadjkvq
sakjoidjvqnkqcefjDvadjlk,jvqjtixchjoidjkqqjdvadjkvqjsakj qtiwlogjvqnkqce
aohjhalcbjtakdlogjaklhqjdvadjeltdldlixkjkqcejsvltvjsqjakkxwqjcluqja
ganwqodjsldvjsvltvjdijarrqanj qeinqjdvqjsinchf

Vqnjvxk aohjcqdjvqnjacioqjakjkvqjnq.xqkdqh,jaohjsqodjasabjdijvlkjieeltqf
Qhoajsqodjxrjdijvqnjadqclqn--aj nlgvdjniiwjlojdvqjdirjiejdvqjvixkqf
Kvqjsakjsinulogjsldvjgnqadjqoqngbjaohjlodqnqkd,jsldvixdjattiwrclkvlog
aobdvlog,jvisqpqn,jsvltvjkadlkelqhjvqnjqpqojlojdvqjkwaccqkdjhqgnqqfjEin
ajdlwqjkvqjvahjdvqjsvicqjvixkqvichjqoniccqhjlojdvqjkqnpltqjiejandfjDvq
 ibkjrikqhjeinjvqnfjDvqbjdvixgvdjldjawxklogjadjelnkd,j xdjdvqjittxradlio
kiiojcikdjldkjaddnatdlpqoqkkjsvqojdvqbjhlktipqnqhjdvadjldjsakjoidjajgawq
annaogqhjqkrqtlaccbjeinjdvqlnjqodqndalowqodfjDvqj.xahniiojkadjeinjvixnk
 qeinqjQhoa'kjracqddq,jradlqodjakjajkapagq,jsvlcqjdvqjvixkq-walhjdiiu
tvangqjiejdvqjtvlchnqo,jaohjdvqjhnaslog-niiwjsqodjxohxkdqhfj xdjdvq
vixkqwalh,jdii,jkqnpqhjvqnjdqnwjakjwihqcjsvqojQhoajrqntqlpqhjdvadjdvq
bixogjsiwao'kj atujaohjkvixchqnkjsqnqjwichqhjiojtcakkltjcloqk,jaohjdvad
vqnjvaln,jciikqoqhjeniwjldkjtioelologjtar,j qtawqjaojlokrlnadliofjSvlcq
Qhoajsinuqhjkvqjkiwqdlwqkjkaogjcisjdvqjclddcqjaln,j“Av!jkljdxjkapalk!”

LdjwipqhjvqnjsldvjnqticcqtdliokfjKvqjtixchjvqanjagalojdvqjnlrrcqjiejdvq
sadqn,jdvqjecarrlogjkalcfjKvqjtixchjkqqjdvqjgclodjiejdvqjwiiojxriojdvq
 ab,jaohjtixchjeqqcjdvqjkied,jgxkdbj qadlogjiejdvqjvidjkixdvjslohfjA
kx dcqjtxnnqodjiejhqklnqjrakkqhjdvnixgvjvqnj ihb,jsqauqologjvqnjvich
xriojdvqj nxkvqkjaohjwaulogjvqnjqbqkj xnof

DvqnqjsqnqjhabkjsvqojkvqjsakjpqnbjvarrbjsldvixdjuoislogjsvbfjKvqjsak
varrbjdij qjaclpqjaohj nqadvlog,jsvqojvqnjsvicqj qlogjkqqwqhjdij qjioq
sldvjdvqjkxoclgvd,jdvqjticin,jdvqjihink,jdvqjcxyxnlaodjsanwdvjiejkiwq
rqneqtdjKixdvqnojhabfjKvqjcluqhjdvqojdijsaohqnjacioqjlodijkdnaogqjaoh
xoeawlclanjrcatqkfjKvqjhlktipqnqhjwaobjajkxoob,jkcqqrbjtinoqn,jeakvlioqh
dijhnqawjlofjAohjkvqjeixohjldjgiihjdijhnqawjaohjdij qjacioqjaoh
xowicqkdqhf

Dvqnqjsqnqjhabkjsvqojkvqjsakjxovarrb,jkvqjhlhjoidjuoisjsvb,--svqojldjhlh
oidjkqqwjsindvjsvlcqjdij qjgcahjinjkinnb,jdij qjaclpqjinjhqah;jsvqojcleq
arrqanqhjdijvqnjcluqjajgnidqk.xqjraohqwiolxwjaohjvxwaoldbjcluqjsinwk
kdnxggclogj clohcbjdisanhjloqplda cqjaoolvlcadliofjKvqjtixchjoidjsinujio
kxtvjajhab,joinjsqapqjeaotlqkjdijkdlnjvqnjrxckqkjaohjsanwjvqnj ciihf




YY


LdjsakjhxnlogjkxtvjajwiihjdvadjQhoajvxodqhjxrjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmfjKvq
vahjoidjeingiddqojdvqjnadvqnjhlkagnqqa cqjlwrnqkkliojcqedjxriojvqn
 bjdvqlnjcakdjlodqnplqs;j xdjkvqjoqpqndvqcqkkjeqcdjajhqklnqjdijkqq
vqn--a ipqjacc,jdijclkdqojsvlcqjkvqjrcabqhjxriojdvqjrlaoifj.xldq
qancbjlojdvqjaedqnoiiojkvqjkdandqhjxriojvqnj.xqkdjeinjdvqjrlaolkdf
XoeindxoadqcbjkvqjvahjwlkcalhjinjcikdjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjtanh,jaoh
ciiulogjxrjvqnjahhnqkkjlojdvqjtldbjhlnqtdinb,jkvqjeixohjdvadjdvqjsiwao
clpqhjioj lqoplccqjKdnqqd,jkiwqjhlkdaotqjasabfjDvqjhlnqtdinbjsvltvjeqcc
lodijvqnjvaohkjsakjajbqanjinjwinqjich,jvisqpqn,jaohjxriojnqatvlogjdvq
oxw qnjlohltadqh,jQhoajhlktipqnqhjdvadjdvqjvixkqjsakjittxrlqhj bja
nqkrqtda cqjeawlcbjiejwxcaddiqkjsvijvahjtvaw nqkjganolqkjdijcqdfjDvqb
vahj qqojclplogjdvqnqjeinjklyjwiodvk,jaohjuoqsja kicxdqcbjoidvlogjie
ajWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmfjLojeatd,jdvqbjuoqsjoidvlogjiejaobjiejdvqln
oqlgv ink;jdvqlnjcihgqnkjsqnqjaccjrqircqjiejdvqjvlgvqkdjhlkdlotdlio,
dvqbjakkxnqhjQhoafjKvqjhlhjoidjclogqnjdijhlktxkkjtcakkjhlkdlotdliokjsldv
WahawqjRixriooq,j xdjvakdqoqhjdijajoqlgv inlogjgnitqnbjkdinq,jeqqclog
kxnqjdvadjWahqwilkqccqjsixchjvapqjcqedjvqnjahhnqkkjsldvjdvqjrnirnlqdinf

VqjuoqsjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjajgiihjhqacj qddqnjdvaojvqjsaodqhjdijuois
vqn,jvqjloeinwqhjvlkj.xqkdlioqnfjLojdnxdv,jvqjhlhjoidjsaodjdijuoisjvqn
adjacc,jinjaobdvlogjtiotqnologjvqn--dvqjwikdjhlkagnqqa cqjaohjxorirxcan
siwaojsvijqpqnjclpqhjloj lqoplccqjKdnqqdfjVqjdvaouqhjvqapqojkvqjvahjcqed
dvqjoqlgv inviih,jaohjsakjq.xaccbjdvaouexcjdvadjvqjhlhjoidjuoisjsvqnq
kvqjvahjgioqf

Qhoa'kjhqklnqjdijkqqjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjvahjlotnqakqhjdqoeichjklotq
dvqkqjxociiuqh-einji kdatcqkjvahjanlkqojdijdvsandjldfjKvqjsakjsiohqnlog
svijtixchjglpqjvqnjdvqjloeinwadliojkvqjkixgvd,jsvqojldjkxhhqocbjittxnnqh
dijvqnjdvadjWahawqjCq nxojsixchj qjdvqjioqjwikdjcluqcbjdijhijkifjKvq
uoqsjldjsakjxkqcqkkjdijakujWahawqjNadlgoiccq,jsvijsakjiojdvqjwikd
hlkdaodjdqnwkjsldvjdvqjwxkltlao,jaohjrnqeqnnqhjdijuoisjoidvlog
tiotqnologjvqnfjKvqjvahjiotqj qqojacwikdjakjqwrvadltjlojqyrnqkklog
vqnkqcejxriojdvqjkx zqtdjakjdvqjtinoqnjgnitqnf

QhoajuoqsjdvadjWahawqjCq nxojvahjnqdxnoqhjdijdvqjtldb,jeinjldjsak
dvqjwlhhcqjiejOipqw qnfjAohjkvqjackijuoqsjsvqnqjdvqjCq nxokjclpqh,jio
TvandnqkjKdnqqdf

Dvqlnjviwqjeniwjdvqjixdklhqjciiuqhjcluqjajrnlkio,jsldvjlnioj ankj qeinq
dvqjhiinjaohjcisqnjslohiskfjDvqjlnioj ankjsqnqjajnqcltjiejdvqjich
nqglwq,jaohjoijioqjvahjqpqnjdvixgvdjiejhlkcihglogjdvqwfjAdjdvqjklhq
sakjajvlgvjeqotqjqotciklogjdvqjganhqofjAjgadqjinjhiinjirqologjxriojdvq
kdnqqdjsakjcituqhfjQhoajnaogjdvqj qccjadjdvlkjklhqjganhqojgadq,jaoh
kdiihjxriojdvqj ao.xqddq,jsaldlogjdij qjahwlddqhf

LdjsakjPltdinjsvijirqoqhjdvqjgadqjeinjvqnfjAj catujsiwao,jslrlogjvqn
vaohkjxriojvqnjarnio,jsakjtcikqjadjvlkjvqqckfj qeinqjkvqjkasjdvqwjQhoa
tixchjvqanjdvqwjlojacdqntadlio,jdvqjsiwao--rcalocbjaojaoiwacb--tcalwlog
dvqjnlgvdjdij qjaccisqhjdijrqneinwjvqnjhxdlqk,jioqjiejsvltvjsakjdi
aoksqnjdvqj qccf

PltdinjsakjkxnrnlkqhjaohjhqclgvdqhjdijkqqjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaohjvqjwahq
oijaddqwrdjdijtiotqacjqldvqnjvlkjakdiolkvwqodjinjvlkjhqclgvdfjVqjsakja
hanu- nisqh,jgiih-ciiulogjbixogkdqnjiejoloqdqqo,jgnqadcbjnqkqw clog
vlkjwidvqn,j xdjsldvjdqojdlwqkjvqnjlwrqdxikldbfjVqjlokdnxtdqhjdvq
 catujsiwaojdijgijadjiotqjaohjloeinwjWahawqjCq nxojdvadjWnkfjRiodqcclqn
hqklnqhjdijkqqjvqnfjDvqjsiwaojgnxw cqhjajnqexkacjdijhijrandjiejvqnjhxdb
svqojkvqjvahjoidj qqojrqnwlddqhjdijhijldjacc,jaohjkdandqhj atujdijvqn
lodqnnxrdqhjdakujiejsqqhlogjdvqjganhqofjSvqnqxriojPltdinjahwlolkdqnqh
ajnq xuqjlojdvqjeinwjiejajpiccqbjieja xkq,jsvltv,jislogjdijldkjnarlhldb
aohjlotivqnqotq,jsakjaccj xdjlotiwrnqvqokl cqjdijQhoafjSvadqpqnjld
sak,jdvqjnq xuqjsakjtioplotlog,jeinjdvqjsiwaojhnirrqhjvqnjviqjaohjsqod
wxw clogjlodijdvqjvixkqf

QhoajhlhjoidjslkvjdijqodqnfjLdjsakjpqnbjrcqakaodjdvqnqjiojdvqjklhq
rintv,jsvqnqjdvqnqjsqnqjtvalnk,jajsltuqnjcixogq,jaohjajkwaccjda cqfjKvq
kqadqhjvqnkqce,jeinjkvqjsakjdlnqhjeniwjvqnjciogjdnawr;jaohjkvqj qgaojdi
nitujgqodcbjaohjkwiidvjixdjdvqjeichkjiejvqnjklcujranakicfjPltdinjhnqs
xrjvlkjtvalnj qklhqjvqnfjVqjadjiotqjqyrcaloqhjdvadjdvqj catujsiwao'k
ieeqoklpqjtiohxtdjsakjaccjhxqjdijlwrqneqtdjdnalolog,jakjvqjsakjoidjdvqnq
dijdauqjvqnjlojvaohfjVqjvahjiocbjtiwqjxrjeniwjdvqjlkcaohjdvqjwinolog
 qeinq,jaohjqyrqtdqhjdijnqdxnojoqydjhabfjVqjkdabqhjaccjslodqnjadjdvq
lkcaoh;jvqjclpqhjdvqnq,jaohjuqrdjdvqjrcatqjlojinhqnjaohjgidjdvlogkjnqahb
einjdvqjkxwwqnjplkldinkf

 xdjajwaojoqqhqhjittaklioacjnqcayadlio,jvqjloeinwqhjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaoh
qpqnbjoisjaohjagalojvqjhnxwwqhjxrjajrnqdqydjdij nlogjvlwjdijdvqjtldbf
Wb!j xdjvqjvahjvahjajdlwqjiejldjdvqjqpqologj qeinq!jVqjsixcho'djsaodjvlk
widvqnjdijuois,jaohjvqj qgaojdijdacujlojajsvlkrqnfjVqjsakjktlodlccaod
sldvjnqticcqtdliokfjIejtixnkq,jvqjtixcho'djdvloujiejdqcclogjWnkf
Riodqcclqnjaccja ixdjld,jkvqj qlogjajsiwaojaohjoidjtiwrnqvqohlogjkxtv
dvlogkfj xdjldjaccj qgaojsldvjajglncjrqqrlogjaohjkwlclogjadjvlwjdvnixgv
dvqjkvxddqnkjakjvqjrakkqhj bfjIv!j xdjkvqjsakjaj qaxdb!jTqndalocbjvq
kwlcqhj atu,jaohjsqodjxrjaohjdacuqhjdijvqnfjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjhlhjoidjuois
vlwjlejkvqjkxrrikqhjvqjsakjioqjdijcqdjaojirrindxoldbjcluqjdvadjqktarq
vlwfjHqkrldqjvqnkqce,jdvqjbixogkdqnjawxkqhjvqnfjKvqjwxkdjvapqj qdnabqh
lojvqnjciiujkiwqjhqgnqqjiejlodqnqkdjinjqodqndalowqodfjDvqj ibjgnqsjwinq
hanlog,jaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjwlgvdjvapqjeixohjvqnkqce,jlojajclddcqjsvlcq,
clkdqologjdijajvlgvcbjticinqhjkdinbj xdjeinjdvqjdlwqcbjarrqanaotqjie
WahawqjCq nxof

Dvadjcahbjsakjkdlccjtcahjlojsvldq,jattinhlogjdijvqnjtxkdiwjiejdvq
kxwwqnfjVqnjqbqkj qawqhjaojqeexklpqjsqctiwqfjSixchjoidjWnkfjRiodqcclqn
gijloklhq?jSixchjkvqjrandauqjiejkiwqjnqenqkvwqod?jSvbjvahjkvqjoidj qqo
dvqnqj qeinq?jVisjsakjdvadjhqanjWnfjRiodqcclqnjaohjvisjsqnqjdvikqjksqqd
tvlchnqo?jVahjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjqpqnjuoisojkxtvjajsanwjOipqw qn?

Pltdinjsqodjaohjnqtcloqhjiojdvqjsltuqnjcixogqj qvlohjvlkjwidvqn'kjtvaln,
svqnqjvqjtiwwaohqhjajplqsjiejQhoa'kjeatqfjVqjvahjdauqojvqnjranakicjeniw
vqnjvaohkjsvlcqjvqjkriuqjdijvqn,jaohjvqjoisjcledqhjldjaohjdslncqhjld
a ipqjvlwjakjvqjcabjiojvlkj atufjSvqojWahawqjCq nxojtiwrcaloqhjdvadjld
sakjkijhxccjtiwlogj atujdijdvqjtldb;jdvadjkvqjkasjkijeqsjrqircqjois;
dvadjqpqojPltdin,jsvqojvqjtawqjxrjeniwjdvqjlkcaohjeinjajhabjinjdsi,jvah
kijwxtvjdijittxrbjvlwjaohjqogagqjvlkjdlwq;jdvqojldjsakjdvadjdvqjbixdv
sqodjlodijtiodindliokjiojdvqjcixogqjaohjslouqhjwlktvlqpixkcbjadjQhoaf
Kvqjkiwqvisjeqcdjcluqjajtioeqhqnadqjlojtnlwq,jaohjdnlqhjdijciiujkqpqnq
aohjhlkarrniplogf

Dvqnqjvahj qqoj xdjdsijcqddqnkjeniwjNi qnd,jsldvjclddcqjlojdvqw,jdvqb
dichjvqnfjPltdinjkalhjldjsakjnqaccbjoidjsindvjsvlcqjdijgijloklhqjein
dvqjcqddqnk,jsvqojvlkjwidvqnjqodnqadqhjvlwjdijgijlojkqantvjiejdvqwfjVq
nqwqw qnqhjdvqjtiodqodk,jsvltvjlojdnxdvjvqjnaddcqhjieejpqnbjgcl cbjsvqo
rxdjdijdvqjdqkdf

IoqjcqddqnjsakjsnlddqojeniwjPqnajTnxmjaohjdvqjidvqnjeniwjdvqjTldb
iejWqyltifjVqjvahjwqdjWiodqc,jsvijsakjhilogjqpqnbdvlogjdisanhjvlk
ahpaotqwqodfjKijean,jdvqjeloaotlacjkldxadliojsakjoijlwrnipqwqodjipqnjdvq
ioqjvqjvahjcqedjlojOqsjIncqaok,j xdjiejtixnkqjdvqjrnikrqtdkjsqnqjpakdcb
 qddqnfjVqjsnidqjiejdvqjTldbjiejWqylti,jdvqj xlchlogk,jdvqjrqircqjaoh
dvqlnjva ldk,jdvqjtiohldliokjiejcleqjsvltvjvqjeixohjdvqnqfjVqjkqodjvlk
cipqjdijdvqjeawlcbfjVqjlotcikqhjajtvqtujdijvlkjwidvqn,jaohjvirqhjkvq
sixchjaeeqtdlioadqcbjnqwqw qnjvlwjdijaccjvlkjenlqohkfjDvadjsakja ixdjdvq
kx kdaotqjiejdvqjdsijcqddqnkfjQhoajeqcdjdvadjlejdvqnqjvahj qqojajwqkkagq
einjvqn,jkvqjsixchjvapqjnqtqlpqhjldfjDvqjhqkriohqodjenawqjiejwlohjlo
svltvjkvqjvahjcqedjviwqj qgaojagalojdijipqndauqjvqn,jaohjkvqjnqwqw qnqh
dvadjkvqjslkvqhjdijelohjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmf

WahawqjCq nxojuoqsjsvqnqjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjclpqhfjKvqjgapqjQhoajdvq
ahhnqkk,jnqgnqddlogjdvadjkvqjsixchjoidjtiokqodjdijkdabjaohjkrqohjdvq
nqwalohqnjiejdvqjaedqnoiio,jaohjrabjajplkldjdijWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjkiwq
idvqnjhabfjDvqjaedqnoiiojsakjacnqahbjsqccjahpaotqhf

Pltdinjqktindqhjvqnjixdjxriojdvqj ao.xqddq,jcledqhjvqnjranakic,jaohjvqch
ldjipqnjvqnjsvlcqjvqjsacuqhjdijdvqjtanjsldvjvqnfjVqjqodnqadqhjvqn
dij qanjlojwlohjdvadjdvqjhlktcikxnqkjiejdvqjaedqnoiiojsqnqjkdnltdcb
tioelhqodlacfjKvqjcaxgvqhjaohj aodqnqhjvlwjajclddcq,jnqwqw qnlogjdii
cadqjdvadjkvqjkvixchjvapqj qqojhlgolelqhjaohjnqkqnpqhf

“VisjvaohkiwqjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjciiuqh!”jkalhjWahawqjCq nxojdijvqnjkiof

“Naplkvlog!”jvqjahwlddqhfj“DvqjtldbjadwikrvqnqjvakjlwrnipqhjvqnfjKiwq
sabjkvqjhiqko'djkqqwjcluqjdvqjkawqjsiwaof”




YYL


KiwqjrqircqjtiodqohqhjdvadjdvqjnqakiojWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjacsabkjtvikq
arandwqodkjxrjxohqnjdvqjniiejsakjdijhlktixnagqjdvqjarrniatvjiej qggank,
rqhhcankjaohjtaccqnkfjDvqnqjsqnqjrcqodbjiejslohiskjlojvqnjclddcqjeniod
niiwfjDvqbjsqnqjeinjdvqjwikdjrandjhlogb,j xdjakjdvqbjsqnqjoqancbjacsabk
irqojldjhlhjoidjwauqjkijwxtvjhleeqnqotqfjDvqbjiedqojahwlddqhjlodijdvq
niiwjajgiihjhqacjiejkwiuqjaohjkiid;j xdjadjdvqjkawqjdlwqjaccjdvqjclgvd
aohjalnjdvadjdvqnqjsakjtawqjdvnixgvjdvqwfjEniwjvqnjslohiskjtixchj qjkqqo
dvqjtnqktqodjiejdvqjnlpqn,jdvqjwakdkjiejkvlrkjaohjdvqj lgjtvlwoqbkjie
dvqjWlkklkklrrljkdqawqnkfjAjwagoleltqodjrlaoijtnishqhjdvqjarandwqodf
Lojdvqjoqydjniiwjkvqjkcqrd,jaohjlojdvqjdvlnhjaohjcakdjkvqjvan inqhja
gakicloqjkdipqjiojsvltvjkvqjtiiuqhjvqnjwqackjsvqojhlklotcloqhjdijhqktqoh
dijdvqjoqlgv inlogjnqkdaxnaodfjLdjsakjdvqnqjackijdvadjkvqjadq,juqqrlog
vqnj qcioglogkjlojajnanqjichj xeeqd,jhlogbjaohj addqnqhjeniwjajvxohnqh
bqankjiejxkqf

SvqojQhoajuoituqhjadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjeniodjniiwjhiinjaohjqodqnqh,
kvqjhlktipqnqhjdvadjrqnkiojkdaohlogj qklhqjdvqjslohis,jqogagqhjlo
wqohlogjinjradtvlogjaojichjrnxoqccajgaldqnfjDvqjclddcqjwxkltlaojcaxgvqh
accjipqnjsvqojkvqjkasjQhoafjVqnjcaxgvjtioklkdqhjiejajtiodindliojiejdvq
eatqjaohjaccjdvqjwxktcqkjiejdvqj ihbfjKvqjkqqwqhjkdnlulogcbjviwqcb,
kdaohlogjdvqnqjlojdvqjaedqnoiiojclgvdfjKvqjkdlccjsinqjdvqjkva  bjcatq
aohjdvqjandleltlacj xotvjiejplicqdkjiojdvqjklhqjiejvqnjvqahf

“Kijbixjnqwqw qnqhjwqjadjcakd,”jkalhjWahqwilkqccqfj“Ljvahjkalhjdi
wbkqce,j'Av,j av!jkvqjslccjoqpqnjtiwqf'”

“Hlhjbixjsaodjwqjdijtiwq?”jakuqhjQhoajsldvjajkwlcqf

“Ljvahjoidjdvixgvdjwxtvja ixdjld,”jaoksqnqhjWahqwilkqccqfjDvqjdsijvah
kqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjiojajclddcqj xwrbjkieajsvltvjkdiihjagalokdjdvqjsaccf
“Ljawjgcah,jvisqpqn,jdvadjbixjtawqfjLjvapqjdvqjsadqnj ilclogj atujdvqnq,
aohjsakjzxkdja ixdjdijwauqjkiwqjtieeqqfjBixjslccjhnloujajtxrjsldv
wqfjAohjvisjlkjcaj qccqjhawq?jAcsabkjvaohkiwq!jacsabkjvqacdvb!jacsabk
tiodqodqh!”jKvqjdiiujQhoa'kjvaohj qdsqqojvqnjkdniogjslnbjelogqnk,
vichlogjldjciikqcbjsldvixdjsanwdv,jaohjqyqtxdlogjajkindjiejhix cqjdvqwq
xriojdvqj atujaohjracwf

“Bqk,”jkvqjsqodjio;j“Ljkiwqdlwqkjdvixgvd:j'KvqjslccjoqpqnjtiwqfjKvq
rniwlkqhjakjdvikqjsiwqojlojkitlqdbjacsabkjhi,jsldvixdjwqaologjldf
Kvqjslccjoidjtiwqf'jEinjLjnqaccbjhio'dj qclqpqjbixjcluqjwq,jWnkf
Riodqcclqnf”

“Ljhio'djuoisjsvqdvqnjLjcluqjbixjinjoid,”jnqrclqhjQhoa,jgamlogjhisojad
dvqjclddcqjsiwaojsldvjaj.xlmmltacjciiuf

DvqjtaohinjiejWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjahwlkkliojgnqadcbjrcqakqhjWahqwilkqccq
NqlkmfjKvqjqyrnqkkqhjvqnjgnadleltadlioj bjnqralnlogjeindvsldvjdijdvq
nqgliojiejdvqjgakicloqjkdipqjaohjnqsanhlogjvqnjgxqkdjsldvjdvqjrniwlkqh
txrjiejtieeqqfjDvqjtieeqqjaohjdvqj lktxldjattiwraoblogjldjrnipqhjpqnb
attqrda cqjdijQhoa,jsvijvahjhqtcloqhjnqenqkvwqodjadjWahawqjCq nxo'kjaoh
sakjoisj qgloologjdijeqqcjvxognbfjWahqwilkqccqjkqdjdvqjdnabjsvltvjkvq
 nixgvdjlojxriojajkwaccjda cqjoqanjadjvaoh,jaohjkqadqhjvqnkqcejiotq
agalojiojdvqjcxwrbjkieaf

“Ljvapqjvahjajcqddqnjeniwjbixnjenlqoh,”jkvqjnqwanuqh,jakjkvqjrixnqhja
clddcqjtnqawjlodijQhoa'kjtxrjaohjvaohqhjldjdijvqnf

“Wbjenlqoh?”

“Bqk,jbixnjenlqohjNi qndfjVqjsnidqjdijwqjeniwjdvqjTldbjiejWqyltif”

“SnidqjdijBIX?”jnqrqadqhjQhoajlojawamqwqod,jkdlnnlogjvqnjtieeqq
a kqodcbf

“Bqk,jdijwqfjSvbjoid?jHio'djkdlnjaccjdvqjsanwdvjixdjiejbixnjtieeqq;
hnloujldfjDvixgvjdvqjcqddqnjwlgvdjakjsqccjvapqj qqojkqodjdijbix;jldjsak
oidvlogj xdjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjeniwj qgloologjdijqohf”

“Cqdjwqjkqqjld,”jnq.xqkdqhjdvqjbixogjsiwao,jqodnqadlogcbf

“Oi;jajcqddqnjtiotqnokjoijioqj xdjdvqjrqnkiojsvijsnldqkjldjaohjdvqjioq
dijsviwjldjlkjsnlddqof”

“Vapqo'djbixjzxkdjkalhjldjtiotqnoqhjwqjeniwj qgloologjdijqoh?”

“Ldjsakjsnlddqoja ixdjbix,joidjdijbixfj'VapqjbixjkqqojWnkfjRiodqcclqn?
Visjlkjkvqjciiulog?'jvqjakukfj'AkjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjkabk,'jinj'akjWnkf
Riodqcclqnjiotqjkalhf'j'LejWnkfjRiodqcclqnjkvixchjtaccjxriojbix,jrcab
einjvqnjdvadjLwrniwrdxjiejTvirlo'k,jwbjeapinldqfjLjvqanhjldjvqnqjajhab
injdsijagi,j xdjoidjakjbixjrcabjldfjLjkvixchjcluqjdijuoisjvisjldjaeeqtdk
vqn,'jaohjkijio,jakjlejvqjkxrrikqhjsqjsqnqjtiokdaodcbjlojqatvjidvqn'k
kitlqdbf”

“Cqdjwqjkqqjdvqjcqddqnf”

“Iv,joif”

“Vapqjbixjaoksqnqhjld?”

“Oif”

“Cqdjwqjkqqjdvqjcqddqnf”

“Oi,jaohjagalo,joif”

“DvqojrcabjdvqjLwrniwrdxjeinjwqf”

“Ldjlkjgnislogjcadq;jsvadjdlwqjhijbixjvapqjdij qjviwq?”

“Dlwqjhiqko'djtiotqnojwqfjBixnj.xqkdliojkqqwkjajclddcqjnxhqfjRcabjdvq
Lwrniwrdxf”

“ xdjbixjvapqjdichjwqjoidvlogjiejbixnkqcefjSvadjanqjbixjhilog?”

“Ralodlog!”jcaxgvqhjQhoafj“Ljawj qtiwlogjaojandlkdfjDvloujiejld!”

“Av!jaojandlkd!jBixjvapqjrnqdqokliok,jWahawqf”

“Svbjrnqdqokliok?jHijbixjdvloujLjtixchjoidj qtiwqjaojandlkd?”

“LjhijoidjuoisjbixjsqccjqoixgvjdijkabfjLjhijoidjuoisjbixnjdacqodjin
bixnjdqwrqnawqodfjDij qjaojandlkdjlotcxhqkjwxtv;jioqjwxkdjrikkqkkjwaob
gledk--a kicxdqjgledk--svltvjvapqjoidj qqojat.xlnqhj bjioq'kjisojqeeindf
Aoh,jwinqipqn,jdijkxttqqh,jdvqjandlkdjwxkdjrikkqkkjdvqjtixnagqixkjkixcf”

“Svadjhijbixjwqaoj bjdvqjtixnagqixkjkixc?”

“Tixnagqixk,jwajeil!jDvqj napqjkixcfjDvqjkixcjdvadjhanqkjaohjhqelqkf”

“KvisjwqjdvqjcqddqnjaohjrcabjeinjwqjdvqjLwrniwrdxfjBixjkqqjdvadjLjvapq
rqnklkdqotqfjHiqkjdvadj.xacldbjtixodjeinjaobdvlogjlojand?”

“Ldjtixodkjsldvjajeiiclkvjichjsiwaojsviwjbixjvapqjtardlpadqh,”jnqrclqh
Wahqwilkqccq,jsldvjvqnjsnlggclogjcaxgvf

Dvqjcqddqnjsakjnlgvdjdvqnqjadjvaohjlojdvqjhnasqnjiejdvqjclddcqjda cq
xriojsvltvjQhoajvahjzxkdjrcatqhjvqnjtieeqqjtxrfjWahqwilkqccqjirqoqh
dvqjhnasqnjaohjhnqsjeindvjdvqjcqddqn,jdvqjdirwikdjioqfjKvqjrcatqhjldjlo
Qhoa'kjvaohk,jaohjsldvixdjexndvqnjtiwwqodjanikqjaohjsqodjdijdvqjrlaoif

WahqwilkqccqjrcabqhjajkiedjlodqncxhqfjLdjsakjaojlwrniplkadliofjKvqjkad
cisjadjdvqjlokdnxwqod,jaohjdvqjcloqkjiejvqnj ihbjkqddcqhjlodijxognatqexc
txnpqkjaohjaogcqkjdvadjgapqjldjaojarrqanaotqjiejhqeinwldbfjGnahxaccbjaoh
lwrqntqrdl cbjdvqjlodqncxhqjwqcdqhjlodijdvqjkiedjirqologjwloinjtvinhkjie
dvqjTvirlojLwrniwrdxf

QhoajhlhjoidjuoisjsvqojdvqjLwrniwrdxj qgaojinjqohqhfjKvqjkadjlojdvqjkiea
tinoqnjnqahlogjNi qnd'kjcqddqnj bjdvqjeahlogjclgvdfjWahqwilkqccqjvah
gclhqhjeniwjdvqjTvirlojlodijdvqj.xlpqnlogjcipqjoidqkjiejLkichq'kjkiog,
aohj atujagalojdijdvqjLwrniwrdxjsldvjldkjkixcexcjaohjrilgoaodjcioglogf

DvqjkvahiskjhqqrqoqhjlojdvqjclddcqjniiwfjDvqjwxkltjgnqsjkdnaogqjaoh
eaodakdlt--dxn xcqod,jloklkdqod,jrcalodlpqjaohjkiedjsldvjqodnqadbfjDvq
kvahiskjgnqsjhqqrqnfjDvqjwxkltjelccqhjdvqjniiwfjLdjeciadqhjixdjxriojdvq
olgvd,jipqnjdvqjvixkqdirk,jdvqjtnqktqodjiejdvqjnlpqn,jciklogjldkqcejlo
dvqjklcqotqjiejdvqjxrrqnjalnf

Qhoajsakjki  log,jzxkdjakjkvqjvahjsqrdjioqjwlholgvdjadjGnaohjLkcqjsvqo
kdnaogq,joqsjpiltqkjasiuqjlojvqnfjKvqjanikqjlojkiwqjagldadliojdijdauq
vqnjhqrandxnqfj“WabjLjtiwqjagalo,jWahqwilkqccq?”jkvqjakuqhjadjdvq
dvnqkvichf

“Tiwqjsvqoqpqnjbixjeqqcjcluqjldfj qjtanqexc;jdvqjkdalnkjaohjcaohlogkjanq
hanu;jhio'djkdxw cqf”

WahqwilkqccqjnqqodqnqhjaohjcldjajtaohcqfjNi qnd'kjcqddqnjsakjiojdvq
eciinfjKvqjkdiirqhjaohjrltuqhjldjxrfjLdjsakjtnxwrcqhjaohjhawrjsldv
dqankfjWahqwilkqccqjkwiidvqhjdvqjcqddqnjixd,jnqkdinqhjldjdijdvq
qopqcirq,jaohjnqrcatqhjldjlojdvqjda cqjhnasqnf




YYLL


IoqjwinologjiojvlkjsabjlodijdisojWnfjRiodqcclqnjkdirrqhjadjdvqjvixkqjie
vlkjichjenlqohjaohjeawlcbjrvbkltlao,jHitdinjWaohqcqdfjDvqjHitdinjsakja
kqwl-nqdlnqhjrvbkltlao,jnqkdlog,jakjdvqjkablogjlk,jxriojvlkjcaxnqckf
Vqj inqjajnqrxdadliojeinjslkhiwjnadvqnjdvaojkulcc--cqaplogjdvqjatdlpq
rnatdltqjiejwqhltloqjdijvlkjakklkdaodkjaohjbixogqnjtiodqwrinanlqk--aoh
sakjwxtvjkixgvdjeinjlojwaddqnkjiejtiokxcdadliofjAjeqsjeawlclqk,jxoldqh
dijvlwj bj iohkjiejenlqohkvlr,jvqjkdlccjaddqohqhjsvqojdvqbjnq.xlnqhjdvq
kqnpltqkjiejajrvbkltlaofjDvqjRiodqcclqnkjsqnqjawiogjdvqkqf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjeixohjdvqjHitdinjnqahlogjadjdvqjirqojslohisjiejvlkjkdxhbf
Vlkjvixkqjkdiihjnadvqnjeanj atujeniwjdvqjkdnqqd,jlojdvqjtqodqnjie
ajhqclgvdexcjganhqo,jkijdvadjldjsakj.xlqdjaohjrqatqexcjadjdvq
ichjgqodcqwao'kjkdxhbjslohisfjVqjsakjajgnqadjnqahqnfjVqjkdanqhjxr
hlkarrniplogcbjipqnjvlkjqbq-gcakkqkjakjWnfjRiodqcclqnjqodqnqh,jsiohqnlog
svijvahjdvqjdqwqnldbjdijhlkdxn jvlwjadjdvadjvixnjiejdvqjwinologf

“Av,jRiodqcclqn!jOidjkltu,jLjvirqfjTiwqjaohjvapqjajkqadfjSvadjoqskjhi
bixj nlogjdvlkjwinolog?”jVqjsakj.xldqjrindcb,jsldvjajrniexkliojie
gnabjvaln,jaohjkwaccj cxqjqbqkjsvltvjagqjvahjni  qhjiejwxtvjiejdvqln
 nlgvdoqkkj xdjoioqjiejdvqlnjrqoqdnadliof

“Iv!jL'wjoqpqnjkltu,jHitdinfjBixjuoisjdvadjLjtiwqjiejdixgvjel qn--ie
dvadjichjTnqicqjnatqjiejRiodqcclqnkjdvadjhnbjxrjaohjeloaccbj cisjasabf
Ljtawqjdijtiokxcd--oi,joidjrnqtlkqcbjdijtiokxcd--dijdacujdijbixja ixd
QhoafjLjhio'djuoisjsvadjalckjvqnf”

“WahawqjRiodqcclqnjoidjsqcc,”jwanpqcqhjdvqjHitdinfj“Svb,jLjkasjvqn--L
dvloujldjsakjajsqqujagi--saculogjaciogjTaoacjKdnqqd,jdvqjrltdxnqjie
vqacdv,jldjkqqwqhjdijwqf”

“Bqk,jbqk;jkvqjkqqwkj.xldqjsqcc,”jkalhjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jcqaologjeinsanh
aohjsvlnclogjvlkjkdltuj qdsqqojvlkjdsijvaohk;j“ xdjkvqjhiqko'djatdjsqccf
Kvq'kjihh,jkvq'kjoidjcluqjvqnkqcefjLjtao'djwauqjvqnjixd,jaohjLjdvixgvd
rqnvarkjbix'hjvqcrjwqf”

“Visjhiqkjkvqjatd?”jlo.xlnqhjdvqjHitdinf

“Sqcc,jldjlko'djqakbjdijqyrcalo,”jkalhjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jdvnislogjvlwkqce
 atujlojvlkjtvalnfj“Kvqjcqdkjdvqjvixkquqqrlogjgijdijdvqjhltuqokf”

“Sqcc,jsqcc;jsiwqojanqjoidjaccjacluq,jwbjhqanjRiodqcclqnfjSq'pqjgidjdi
tioklhqn--”

“Ljuoisjdvad;jLjdichjbixjLjtixcho'djqyrcalofjVqnjsvicqjaddldxhq--disanh
wqjaohjqpqnb ihbjaohjqpqnbdvlog--vakjtvaogqhfjBixjuoisjLjvapqjaj.xltu
dqwrqn,j xdjLjhio'djsaodjdij.xannqcjinj qjnxhqjdijajsiwao,jqkrqtlaccbjwb
sleq;jbqdjL'wjhnlpqojdijld,jaohjeqqcjcluqjdqojdvixkaohjhqplckjaedqnjL'pq
wahqjajeiicjiejwbkqcefjKvq'kjwaulogjldjhqplclkvcbjxotiweinda cqjein
wq,”jvqjsqodjiojoqnpixkcbfj“Kvq'kjgidjkiwqjkindjiejoidliojlojvqnjvqah
tiotqnologjdvqjqdqnoacjnlgvdkjiejsiwqo;jaoh--bixjxohqnkdaoh--sqjwqqdjlo
dvqjwinologjadjdvqj nqaueakdjda cqf”

Dvqjichjgqodcqwaojcledqhjvlkjkvaggbjqbq nisk,jrnidnxhqhjvlkjdvltujoqdvqn
clr,jaohjdarrqhjdvqjanwkjiejvlkjtvalnjsldvjvlkjtxkvlioqhjelogqndlrkf

“Svadjvapqjbixj qqojhilogjdijvqn,jRiodqcclqn?”

“Hilog!jRan cqx!”

“Vakjkvq,”jakuqhjdvqjHitdin,jsldvjajkwlcq,j“vakjkvqj qqojakkitladlog
iejcadqjsldvjajtlntcqjiejrkqxhi-lodqccqtdxacjsiwqo--kxrqn-krlnldxac
kxrqnlinj qlogk?jWbjsleqjvakj qqojdqcclogjwqja ixdjdvqwf”

“Dvad'kjdvqjdnix cq,”j niuqjlojWnfjRiodqcclqn,j“kvqjvako'dj qqo
akkitladlogjsldvjaobjioqfjKvqjvakja aohioqhjvqnjDxqkhabkjadjviwq,jvak
dvnisojipqnjaccjvqnjat.xalodaotqk,jaohjgiqkjdnawrlogja ixdj bjvqnkqce,
wirlogjlojdvqjkdnqqd-tank,jgqddlogjlojaedqnjhanufjLjdqccjbixjkvq'k
rqtxclanfjLjhio'djcluqjld;jLjeqqcjajclddcqjsinnlqhjipqnjldf”

DvlkjsakjajoqsjakrqtdjeinjdvqjHitdinfj“Oidvlogjvqnqhldanb?”jvqjakuqh,
kqnlixkcbfj“Oidvlogjrqtxclanja ixdjvqnjeawlcbjaodqtqhqodk,jlkjdvqnq?”

“Iv,joi,jlohqqh!jKvqjtiwqkjiejkixohjichjRnqk bdqnlaojUqodxtubjkditufjDvq
ichjgqodcqwao,jvqnjeadvqn,jLjvapqjvqanh,jxkqhjdijadioqjeinjvlkjsqquhab
klokjsldvjvlkjKxohabjhqpidliokfjLjuoisjeinjajeatd,jdvadjvlkjnatqjvinkqk
cldqnaccbjnaojasabjsldvjdvqjrnqddlqkdj ldjiejUqodxtubjeanwlogjcaoh
LjqpqnjcalhjqbqkjxriofjWanganqd--bixjuoisjWanganqd--kvqjvakjaccjdvq
Rnqk bdqnlaolkwjxohlcxdqhfjAohjdvqjbixogqkdjlkjkiwqdvlogjiejajplyqofj b
dvqjsab,jkvqjgqdkjwannlqhjlojajtixrcqjiejsqqukjeniwjoisf”

“Kqohjbixnjsleqjxrjdijdvqjsqhhlog,”jqytcalwqhjdvqjHitdin,jeinqkqqlogja
varrbjkicxdliofj“Cqdjvqnjkdabjawiogjvqnjisojrqircqjeinjajsvlcq;jldjslcc
hijvqnjgiihf”

“Dvad'kjsvadjLjsaodjvqnjdijhifjKvqjsio'djgijdijdvqjwannlagqfjKvqjkabk
ajsqhhlogjlkjioqjiejdvqjwikdjcawqoda cqjkrqtdatcqkjiojqandvfjOltqjdvlog
einjajsiwaojdijkabjdijvqnjvxk aoh!”jqytcalwqhjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jexwlog
aoqsjadjdvqjnqticcqtdliof

“Riodqcclqn,”jkalhjdvqjHitdin,jaedqnjajwiwqod'kjnqecqtdlio,j“cqdjbixn
sleqjacioqjeinjajsvlcqfjHio'dj idvqnjvqn,jaohjhio'djcqdjvqnj idvqn
bixfjSiwao,jwbjhqanjenlqoh,jlkjajpqnbjrqtxclanjaohjhqcltadqjingaolkw--a
kqokldlpqjaohjvlgvcbjingaolmqhjsiwao,jkxtvjakjLjuoisjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjdi
 q,jlkjqkrqtlaccbjrqtxclanfjLdjsixchjnq.xlnqjaojlokrlnqhjrkbtviciglkdjdi
hqacjkxttqkkexccbjsldvjdvqwfjAohjsvqojinhloanbjeqcciskjcluqjbixjaohjwq
addqwrdjdijtirqjsldvjdvqlnjlhlikbotnaklqkjdvqjnqkxcdjlkj xogclogfjWikd
siwqojanqjwiihbjaohjsvlwkltacfjDvlkjlkjkiwqjrakklogjsvlwjiejbixnjsleq,
hxqjdijkiwqjtaxkqjinjtaxkqkjsvltvjbixjaohjLjoqqho'djdnbjdijeadviwfj xd
ldjslccjrakkjvarrlcbjipqn,jqkrqtlaccbjlejbixjcqdjvqnjacioqfjKqohjvqn
anixohjdijkqqjwqf”

“Iv!jLjtixcho'djhijdvad;jdvqnq'hj qjoijnqakiojeinjld,”ji zqtdqhjWnf
Riodqcclqnf

“DvqojL'ccjgijanixohjaohjkqqjvqn,”jkalhjdvqjHitdinfj“L'ccjhnirjlojdi
hlooqnjkiwqjqpqologjqoj iojawlf

“Hi!j bjaccjwqaok,”jxngqhjWnfjRiodqcclqnfj“Svadjqpqologjslccjbixjtiwq?
KabjDvxnkhabfjSlccjbixjtiwqjDvxnkhab?”jvqjakuqh,jnlklogjdijdauqjvlk
cqapqf

“Pqnbjsqcc;jDvxnkhabfjWbjsleqjwabjrikkl cbjvapqjkiwqjqogagqwqodjein
wqjDvxnkhabfjLojtakqjkvqjvak,jLjkvaccjcqdjbixjuoisfjIdvqnslkq,jbixjwab
qyrqtdjwqf”

WnfjRiodqcclqnjdxnoqhj qeinqjcqaplogjdijkab:

“LjawjgilogjdijOqsjBinujioj xkloqkkjpqnbjkiiofjLjvapqjaj lgjktvqwqjio
vaoh,jaohjsaodjdij qjiojdvqjelqchjrnirqnjdijrxccjdvqjnirqkjaohjvaohcq
dvqjnl  iokfjSq'ccjcqdjbixjlojiojdvqjloklhqjlejbixjkabjki,jHitdin,”jvq
caxgvqhf

“Oi,jLjdvaoujbix,jwbjhqanjkln,”jnqdxnoqhjdvqjHitdinfj“Ljcqapqjkxtv
pqodxnqkjdijbixjbixogqnjwqojsldvjdvqjeqpqnjiejcleqjkdlccjlojbixnj ciihf”

“SvadjLjsaodqhjdijkab,”jtiodloxqhjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jsldvjvlkjvaohjiojdvq
uoi ;j“Ljwabjvapqjdij qja kqodjajgiihjsvlcqfjSixchjbixjahplkqjwqjdijdauq
Qhoajaciog?”

“ bjaccjwqaok,jlejkvqjslkvqkjdijgifjLejoid,jcqapqjvqnjvqnqfjHio'd
tiodnahltdjvqnfjDvqjwiihjslccjrakk,jLjakkxnqjbixfjLdjwabjdauqjajwiodv,
dsi,jdvnqqjwiodvk--rikkl cbjciogqn,j xdjldjslccjrakk;jvapqjradlqotqf”

“Sqcc,jgiih- b,jajzqxhl,”jkalhjWnfjRiodqcclqn,jakjvqjcqdjvlwkqcejixdf

DvqjHitdinjsixchjvapqjcluqhjhxnlogjdvqjtixnkqjiejtiopqnkadliojdijaku,
“Lkjdvqnqjaobjwaojlojdvqjtakq?”j xdjvqjuoqsjvlkjTnqicqjdiijsqccjdijwauq
kxtvjaj cxohqnjakjdvadf

Vqjhlhjoidjnqkxwqjvlkj iiujlwwqhladqcb,j xdjkadjeinjajsvlcqjwqhldadlpqcb
ciiulogjixdjlodijdvqjganhqof




YYLLL


Qhoa'kjeadvqnjsakjlojdvqjtldb,jaohjvahj qqojsldvjdvqwjkqpqnacjhabkf
Kvqjsakjoidjpqnbjsanwcbjinjhqqrcbjaddatvqhjdijvlw,j xdjdvqbjvahjtqndalo
dakdqkjlojtiwwio,jaohjsvqojdigqdvqnjdvqbjsqnqjtiwraolioa cqfjVlkjtiwlog
sakjlojdvqjoadxnqjiejajsqctiwqjhlkdxn aotq;jldjkqqwqhjdijexnolkvjajoqs
hlnqtdliojeinjvqnjqwidliokf

Vqjvahjtiwqjdijrxntvakqjajsqhhlogjgledjeinjvlkjhaxgvdqn,jZaoqd,jaohjao
ixdeldjeinjvlwkqcejlojsvltvjvqjwlgvdjwauqjajtnqhlda cqjarrqanaotqjad
vqnjwannlagqfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjkqcqtdqhjdvqj nlhacjgled,jakjqpqnb
ioqjlwwqhladqcbjtiooqtdqhjsldvjvlwjacsabkjhqeqnnqhjdijvlkjdakdqjlojkxtv
waddqnkfjAohjvlkjkxggqkdliokjiojdvqj.xqkdliojiejhnqkk--svltvjdii
iedqojakkxwqkjdvqjoadxnqjiejajrni cqw--sqnqjiejloqkdlwa cqjpacxqjdijvlk
eadvqn-lo-casfj xdjeinjdvqjrakdjeqsjhabkjdvqjichjgqodcqwaojvahj qqojxrio
Qhoa'kjvaohk,jaohjlojvlkjkitlqdbjkvqjsakj qtiwlogjat.xalodqhjsldvjajoqs
kqdjiejkqokadliokfjVqjvahj qqojajticioqcjlojdvqjTioeqhqnadqjanwb,jaoh
kdlccjwalodaloqh,jsldvjdvqjdldcq,jdvqjwlcldanbj qanlogjsvltvjvahjacsabk
attiwraolqhjldfjVlkjvalnjaohjwxkdatvqjsqnqjsvldqjaohjklcub,jqwrvaklmlog
dvqjnxggqhj niomqjiejvlkjeatqfjVqjsakjdaccjaohjdvlo,jaohjsinqjvlkjtiadk
rahhqh,jsvltvjgapqjajeltdldlixkj nqahdvjaohjhqrdvjdijvlkjkvixchqnk
aohjtvqkdfjQhoajaohjvqnjeadvqnjciiuqhjpqnbjhlkdlogxlkvqhjdigqdvqn,jaoh
qytldqhjajgiihjhqacjiejoidltqjhxnlogjdvqlnjrqnaw xcadliokfjXriojvlk
annlpacjkvqj qgaoj bjlodnihxtlogjvlwjdijvqnjadqclqnjaohjwaulogjajkuqdtv
iejvlwfjVqjdiiujdvqjsvicqjwaddqnjpqnbjkqnlixkcbfjLejvqnjdacqodjvahj qqo
dqo-eichjgnqadqnjdvaojldjsak,jldjsixchjoidjvapqjkxnrnlkqhjvlw,jtioplotqh
akjvqjsakjdvadjvqjvahj q.xqadvqhjdijaccjiejvlkjhaxgvdqnkjdvqjgqnwkjieja
wakdqnexcjtara lcldb,jsvltvjiocbjhqrqohqhjxriojdvqlnjisojqeeindkjdij q
hlnqtdqhjdisanhjkxttqkkexcjatvlqpqwqodf

 qeinqjvqnjrqotlcjvqjkadjnlglhjaohjxoeclotvlog,jakjvqjvahjeatqhjdvq
taooio'kjwixdvjlojhabkjgioqj bfjVqjnqkqodqhjdvqjlodnxkliojiejdvq
tvlchnqo,jsvijgarqhjsldvjsiohqnlogjqbqkjadjvlw,jklddlogjkijkdleejxr
dvqnqjlojdvqlnjwidvqn'kj nlgvdjadqclqnfjSvqojdvqbjhnqsjoqanjvqjwidlioqh
dvqwjasabjsldvjaojqyrnqkklpqjatdliojiejdvqjeiid,jciadvjdijhlkdxn jdvq
elyqhjcloqkjiejvlkjtixodqoaotq,jvlkjanwk,jinjvlkjnlglhjkvixchqnkf

Qhoa,jaoylixkjdijqodqndalojvlw,jlopldqhjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjdijwqqd
vlw,jvaplogjrniwlkqhjvlwjajdnqadjlojvqnjrlaoijrcablog;j xdjWahqwilkqccq
hqtcloqhjdvqjlopldadliofjKijdigqdvqnjdvqbjaddqohqhjajkilnqqjwxkltacq
adjdvqjNadlgoiccqk'fjWioklqxnjaohjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjwahqjwxtvjiejdvq
Ticioqc,jlokdacclogjvlwjakjdvqjgxqkdjiejvioinjaohjqogaglogjvlwjad
iotqjdijhloqjsldvjdvqwjdvqjeiccislogjKxohab,jinjaobjhabjsvltvjvqjwlgvd
kqcqtdfjWahawqjti.xqddqhjsldvjvlwjlojdvqjwikdjtardlpadlogjaohjoalpq
waooqn,jsldvjqbqk,jgqkdxnqk,jaohjajrniexkliojiejtiwrclwqodk,jdlccjdvq
Ticioqc'kjichjvqahjeqcdjdvlndbjbqankjbixogqnjiojvlkjrahhqhjkvixchqnkf
Qhoajwanpqcqh,joidjtiwrnqvqohlogfjKvqjvqnkqcejsakjacwikdjhqpilhjie
ti.xqdnbf

Dvqnqjsqnqjioqjinjdsijwqojsviwjkvqji kqnpqhjadjdvqjkilnqqjwxkltacq;
 xdjkvqjsixchjoqpqnjvapqjeqcdjwipqhjdijaobjulddqolkvjhlkrcabjdijaddnatd
dvqlnjoidltq--dijaobjeqcloqjinjeqwloloqjslcqkjdijqyrnqkkjvqnkqcejdisanh
dvqwfjDvqlnjrqnkioacldbjaddnatdqhjvqnjlojaojagnqqa cqjsabfjVqnjeaotb
kqcqtdqhjdvqw,jaohjkvqjsakjgcahjsvqojajcxccjlojdvqjwxkltjgapqjdvqw
aojirrindxoldbjdijwqqdjvqnjaohjdacujsldvjvqnfjIedqojiojdvqjkdnqqdjdvq
gcaotqjiejkdnaogqjqbqkjvahjclogqnqhjlojvqnjwqwinb,jaohjkiwqdlwqkjvah
hlkdxn qhjvqnf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjhlhjoidjaddqohjdvqkqjkilnqqkjwxkltacqkfjVqjtioklhqnqh
dvqwj ixngqilk,jaohjeixohjwinqjhlpqnkliojadjdvqjtcx fjDijWahawq
Nadlgoiccqjvqjkalhjdvqjwxkltjhlkrqokqhjadjvqnjkilnqqkjsakjdiij“vqapb,”
jdiijeanj qbiohjvlkjxodnaloqhjtiwrnqvqokliofjVlkjqytxkqjecaddqnqhjvqnf
 xdjkvqjhlkarrnipqhjiejWnfjRiodqcclqn'kjtcx ,jaohjkvqjsakjenaoujqoixgv
dijdqccjQhoajkif

“Ld'kjajrldbjWnfjRiodqcclqnjhiqko'djkdabjviwqjwinqjlojdvqjqpqologkf
Ljdvloujbixjsixchj qjwinq--sqcc,jlejbixjhio'djwlohjwbjkablogjld--winq
xoldqh,jlejvqjhlhf”

“Iv!jhqanjoi!”jkalhjQhoa,jsldvjaj caoujciiujlojvqnjqbqkfj“SvadjkvixchjL
hijlejvqjkdabqhjviwq?jSqjsixcho'djvapqjaobdvlogjdijkabjdijqatvjidvqnf”

Kvqjvahjoidjwxtvjiejaobdvlogjdijkabjdijvqnjeadvqn,jeinjdvadjwaddqn;j xd
vqjhlhjoidjaodagiolmqjvqnfjKvqjhlktipqnqhjdvadjvqjlodqnqkdqhjvqn,jdvixgv
kvqjnqaclmqhjdvadjvqjwlgvdjoidjlodqnqkdjvqnjciog;jaohjeinjdvqjelnkdjdlwq
lojvqnjcleqjkvqjeqcdjakjlejkvqjsqnqjdvinixgvcbjat.xalodqhjsldvjvlwfjVq
uqrdjvqnj xkbjkqnplogjvlwjaohjwlolkdqnlogjdijvlkjsaodkfjLdjawxkqhjvqn
dijhijkifjKvqjsixchjoidjrqnwldjajkqnpaodjinjioqjiejdvqjtvlchnqojdijhi
aobdvlogjeinjvlwjsvltvjkvqjwlgvdjhijvqnkqcefjVqnjvxk aohjoidltqh,jaoh
dvixgvdjldjsakjdvqjqyrnqkkliojiejajhqqrjelclacjaddatvwqodjsvltvjvqjvah
oqpqnjkxkrqtdqhf

DvqjTicioqcjhnaoujoxwqnixkj“dihhlqk”jhxnlogjdvqjtixnkqjiejdvqjhab,jsvltv
cqedjvlw,jvisqpqn,jlwrqndxn qhfjVqjsakjaojqyrqndjadjtiotitdlogjkdniog
hnloukfjVqjvahjqpqojlopqodqhjkiwq,jdijsvltvjvqjvahjglpqojeaodakdlt
oawqk,jaohjeinjsvikqjwaoxeatdxnqjvqjnq.xlnqhjhlpqnkqjlognqhlqodkjdvadjld
hqpicpqhjxriojQhoajdijrnitxnqjeinjvlwf

SvqojHitdinjWaohqcqdjhloqhjsldvjdvqjRiodqcclqnkjiojDvxnkhabjvqjtixch
hlktqnojlojWnkfjRiodqcclqnjoijdnatqjiejdvadjwin lhjtiohldliojsvltvjvqn
vxk aohjvahjnqrindqhjdijvlwfjKvqjsakjqytldqhjaohjlojajwaooqnjnahlaodf
Kvqjaohjvqnjeadvqnjvahj qqojdijdvqjnatqjtixnkq,jaohjdvqlnjdvixgvdkjsvqo
dvqbjkqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjadjda cqjsqnqjkdlccjittxrlqhjsldvjdvqjqpqodkjie
dvqjaedqnoiio,jaohjdvqlnjdacujsakjkdlccjiejdvqjdnatufjDvqjHitdinjvahjoid
uqrdjratqjsldvjdxnejaeealnkfjVqjvahjtqndalojnqticcqtdliokjiejnatlog
lojsvadjvqjtaccqhj“dvqjgiihjichjdlwqk”jsvqojdvqjCqtiwrdqjkda cqk
ecixnlkvqh,jaohjvqjhnqsjxriojdvlkjexohjiejwqwinlqkjkijdvadjvqjwlgvdjoid
 qjcqedjixdjaohjkqqwjsviccbjhqpilhjiejdvqjwihqnojkrlnldfj xdjvqjealcqh
dijlwrikqjxriojdvqjTicioqc,jaohjsakjqpqojeanjeniwjlwrnqkklogjvlwjsldv
dvlkjdnxwrqh-xrjuoiscqhgqjiej bgioqjhabkfjQhoajvahjkdauqhjvqnjeadvqn
iojvlkjcakdjpqodxnq,jsldvjdvqjwikdjgnadleblogjnqkxcdkjdij idvjiejdvqwf
 qklhqk,jdvqbjvahjwqdjkiwqjpqnbjtvanwlogjrqircq,jattinhlogjdijdvq
Ticioqc'kjlwrnqkkliokfjWnkfjWindlwqnjWqnnlwaojaohjWnkfjZawqkjVlgvtawr,
svijsqnqjdvqnqjsldvjActqqjAni lo,jvahjziloqhjdvqwjaohjvahjqoclpqoqhjdvq
vixnkjlojajeakvliojdvadjsanwqhjvlwjdijdvloujief

WnfjRiodqcclqnjvlwkqcejvahjoijrandltxcanjcqaologjdisanhjvinkqnatlog,jaoh
sakjqpqojnadvqnjlotcloqhjdijhlktixnagqjldjakjajrakdlwq,jqkrqtlaccb
svqojvqjtioklhqnqhjdvqjeadqjiejdvadj cxq-gnakkjeanwjlojUqodxtubfjVq
qohqapinqh,jlojajgqoqnacjsab,jdijqyrnqkkjajrandltxcanjhlkarrnipac,jaoh
iocbjkxttqqhqhjlojanixklogjdvqjlnqjaohjirrikldliojiejvlkjeadvqn-lo-casf
Ajrnqddbjhlkrxdqjeiccisqh,jlojsvltvjQhoajsanwcbjqkrixkqhjvqnjeadvqn'k
taxkqjaohjdvqjHitdinjnqwaloqhjoqxdnacf

Vqji kqnpqhjvlkjvikdqkkjaddqodlpqcbjeniwjxohqnjvlkjkvaggbj nisk,jaoh
oidqhjajkx dcqjtvaogqjsvltvjvahjdnaokeinwqhjvqnjeniwjdvqjclkdcqkkjsiwao
vqjvahjuoisojlodijaj qlogjsvi,jeinjdvqjwiwqod,jkqqwqhjracrldaodjsldv
dvqjeintqkjiejcleqfjVqnjkrqqtvjsakjsanwjaohjqoqngqdltfjDvqnqjsakjoi
nqrnqkkliojlojvqnjgcaotqjinjgqkdxnqfjKvqjnqwlohqhjvlwjiejkiwqj qaxdlexc,
kcqqujaolwacjsaulogjxrjlojdvqjkxof

DvqjhlooqnjsakjqytqccqodfjDvqjtcanqdjsakjsanwjaohjdvqjtvawragoqjsak
tich,jaohjxohqnjdvqlnj qoqeltqodjloecxqotqjdvqjdvnqadqoqhjxorcqakaodoqkk
wqcdqhjaohjpaolkvqhjsldvjdvqjexwqkjiejdvqjsloqf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjsanwqhjxrjaohjgnqsjnqwlolktqodfjVqjdichjkiwqjawxklog
rcaodadliojqyrqnlqotqk,jnqticcqtdliokjiejichjL qnplccqjaohjvlkjbixdv,
svqojvqjvxodqhj'rikkxwjlojtiwraobjsldvjkiwqjenlqohcbjhanub;jdvnakvqh
dvqjrqtaojdnqqk,jkvidjdvqjgnik qt,jaohjniawqhjdvqjsiihkjaohjelqchkjlo
wlktvlqpixkjlhcqoqkkf

DvqjTicioqc,jsldvjclddcqjkqokqjiejvxwinjaohjiejdvqjeldoqkkjiejdvlogk,
nqcadqhjajkiw qnjqrlkihqjiejdvikqjhanujaohj lddqnjhabk,jlojsvltvjvqjvah
atdqhjajtiokrltxixkjrandjaohjacsabkjeinwqhjajtqodnacjelgxnqfjOinjsak
dvqjHitdinjvarrlqnjlojvlkjkqcqtdlio,jsvqojvqjdichjdvqjich,jqpqnjoqs
aohjtxnlixkjkdinbjiejdvqjsaologjiejajsiwao'kjcipq,jkqqulogjkdnaogq,joqs
tvaooqck,jiocbjdijnqdxnojdijldkjcqgldlwadqjkixntqjaedqnjhabkjiejelqntq
xonqkdfjLdjsakjioqjiejdvqjwaobjclddcqjvxwaojhitxwqodkjsvltvjvahj qqo
xoeichqhjdijvlwjhxnlogjvlkjciogjtanqqnjakjajrvbkltlaofjDvqjkdinbjhlhjoid
kqqwjqkrqtlaccbjdijlwrnqkkjQhoafjKvqjvahjioqjiejvqnjisojdijdqcc,jieja
siwaojsvijrahhcqhjasabjsldvjvqnjcipqnjioqjolgvdjlojajrlnigxqjaohjoqpqn
tawqj atufjDvqbjsqnqjcikdjawlhjdvqj anadanlaojLkcaohk,jaohjoijioqjqpqn
vqanhjiejdvqwjinjeixohjdnatqjiejdvqwjeniwjdvadjhabjdijdvlkfjLdjsakja
rxnqjlopqodliofjKvqjkalhjdvadjWahawqjAodiloqjvahjnqcadqhjldjdijvqnf
Dvad,jacki,jsakjaojlopqodliofjRqnvarkjldjsakjajhnqawjkvqjvahjvahfj xd
qpqnbjgcislogjsinhjkqqwqhjnqacjdijdvikqjsvijclkdqoqhfjDvqbjtixchjeqqc
dvqjvidj nqadvjiejdvqjKixdvqnojolgvd;jdvqbjtixchjvqanjdvqjciogjksqqrjie
dvqjrlnigxqjdvnixgvjdvqjgclkdqologjwiiocldjsadqn,jdvqj qadlogjiej lnhk'
slogk,jnlklogjkdandcqhjeniwjawiogjdvqjnqqhkjlojdvqjkacd-sadqnjriick;
dvqbjtixchjkqqjdvqjeatqkjiejdvqjcipqnk,jracq,jtcikqjdigqdvqn,jnardjlo
i clplixkjeingqdexcoqkk,jhnledlogjlodijdvqjxouoisof

Dvqjtvawragoqjsakjtich,jaohjldkjkx dcqjexwqkjrcabqhjeaodakdltjdnltuk
sldvjQhoa'kjwqwinbjdvadjolgvdf

Ixdklhq,jasabjeniwjdvqjgcisjiejdvqjelnqjaohjdvqjkiedjcawrclgvd,jdvq
olgvdjsakjtvlccjaohjwxnubfjDvqjHitdinjhix cqhjvlkjich-eakvlioqhjtciau
atnikkjvlkj nqakdjakjvqjkdnihqjviwqjdvnixgvjdvqjhanuoqkkfjVqjuoqsjvlk
eqccis-tnqadxnqkj qddqnjdvaojwikdjwqo;juoqsjdvadjlooqnjcleqjsvltvjki
kqchiwjxoeichkjldkqcejdijxoaoilodqhjqbqkfjVqjsakjkinnbjvqjvahjattqrdqh
Riodqcclqn'kjlopldadliofjVqjsakjgnislogjich,jaohj qgloologjdijoqqhjnqkd
aohjaojlwrqndxn qhjkrlnldfjVqjhlhjoidjsaodjdvqjkqtnqdkjiejidvqnjclpqk
dvnxkdjxriojvlwf

“Ljvirqjldjlko'djAni lo,”jvqjwxddqnqhjdijvlwkqcejakjvqjsacuqhfj“Ljvirq
dijvqapqojldjlko'djActqqjAni lof”




YYLP


Qhoajaohjvqnjeadvqnjvahjajsanw,jaohjacwikdjplicqodjhlkrxdqjxriojdvq
kx zqtdjiejvqnjnqexkacjdijaddqohjvqnjklkdqn'kjsqhhlogfjWnfjRiodqcclqn
hqtcloqhjdijlodqneqnq,jdijlodqnrikqjqldvqnjvlkjloecxqotqjinjvlk
axdvinldbfjVqjsakjeiccislogjHitdinjWaohqcqd'kjahpltq,jaohjcqddlogjvqnjhi
akjkvqjcluqhfjDvqjTicioqcjnqrniatvqhjvlkjhaxgvdqnjeinjvqnjcatujie
elclacjulohoqkkjaohjnqkrqtd,jvqnjsaodjiejklkdqncbjaeeqtdliojaohjsiwaocb
tioklhqnadliofjVlkjangxwqodkjsqnqjca inqhjaohjxotioplotlogfjVqjhix dqh
lejZaoqdjsixchjattqrdjaobjqytxkq--eingqddlogjdvadjQhoajvahjieeqnqh
oioqfjVqjhix dqhjlejZaoqdjsixchjqpqnjkrqaujdijvqnjagalo,jaohjvqjsakjkxnq
Wanganqdjsixchjoidf

Qhoajsakjgcahjdij qjnlhjiejvqnjeadvqnjsvqojvqjeloaccbjdiiujvlwkqce
ieejsldvjvlkjsqhhlogjganwqodkjaohjvlkj nlhacjgledk,jsldvjvlkjrahhqh
kvixchqnk,jvlkj l cqjnqahlog,jvlkj“dihhlqk”jaohjriohqnixkjiadvkf

WnfjRiodqcclqnjeiccisqhjvlwjtcikqcbfjVqjwqaodjdijkdirjadjdvqjsqhhlog
iojvlkjsabjdijOqsjBinujaohjqohqapinj bjqpqnbjwqaokjsvltvjwioqbjaohjcipq
tixchjhqplkqjdijadioqjkiwqsvadjeinjQhoa'kjlotiwrnqvqokl cqjatdliof

“Bixjanqjdiijcqolqod,jdiijcqolqodj bjean,jCqiotq,”jakkqndqhjdvqjTicioqcf
“Axdvinldb,jtiqntliojanqjsvadjlkjoqqhqhfjRxdjbixnjeiidjhisojgiihjaoh
vanh;jdvqjiocbjsabjdijwaoagqjajsleqfjDauqjwbjsinhjeinjldf”

DvqjTicioqcjsakjrqnvarkjxoasanqjdvadjvqjvahjtiqntqhjvlkjisojsleqjlodi
vqnjgnapqfjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjajpagxqjkxkrltliojiejldjsvltvjvqjdvixgvd
ldjoqqhcqkkjdijwqodliojadjdvadjcadqjhabf

Qhoajsakjoidjkijtioktlixkcbjgnadlelqhjadjvqnjvxk aoh'kjcqaplogjviwqjak
kvqjvahj qqojipqnjdvqjhqrandxnqjiejvqnjeadvqnfjAkjdvqjhabjarrniatvqh
svqojvqjsakjdijcqapqjvqnjeinjajtiwranadlpqcbjciogjkdab,jkvqjgnqsjwqcdlog
aohjaeeqtdlioadq,jnqwqw qnlogjvlkjwaobjatdkjiejtioklhqnadliojaohjvlk
nqrqadqhjqyrnqkkliokjiejaojanhqodjaddatvwqodfjKvqjsakjkicltldixkja ixd
vlkjvqacdvjaohjvlkjsqceanqfjKvqj xkdcqhjanixoh,jciiulogjaedqnjvlk
tcidvlog,jdvloulogja ixdjvqapbjxohqnsqan,j.xldqjakjWahawqjNadlgoiccq
sixchjvapqjhioqjxohqnjklwlcanjtlntxwkdaotqkfjKvqjtnlqhjsvqojvqjsqod
asab,jtacclogjvlwjvqnjhqan,jgiihjenlqoh,jaohjkvqjsakj.xldqjtqndalojkvq
sixchjgnisjcioqcbj qeinqjpqnbjciogjaohjgijdijzilojvlwjlojOqsjBinuf

 xdjaedqnjacc,jajnahlaodjrqatqjkqddcqhjxriojvqnjsvqojkvqjadjcakdjeixoh
vqnkqcejacioqfjQpqojdvqjtvlchnqojsqnqjgioqfjIchjWahawqjRiodqcclqnjvah
tiwqjvqnkqcejaohjtannlqhjdvqwjieejdijL qnplccqjsldvjdvqlnj.xahniiofjDvq
ichjwahawqjhlhjoidjpqodxnqjdijkabjkvqjsakjaenalhjdvqbjsixchj qjoqgcqtdqh
hxnlogjCqiotq'kja kqotq;jkvqjvanhcbjpqodxnqhjdijdvloujkifjKvqjsakjvxognb
einjdvqw--qpqojajclddcqjelqntqjlojvqnjaddatvwqodfjKvqjhlhjoidjsaodjdvqw
dij qjsviccbj“tvlchnqojiejdvqjrapqwqod,”jkvqjacsabkjkalhjsvqoj qgglog
dijvapqjdvqwjeinjajkratqfjKvqjslkvqhjdvqwjdijuoisjdvqjtixodnb,jsldvjldk
kdnqawk,jldkjelqchk,jldkjsiihk,jldkjenqqhiw,jkijhqcltlixkjdijdvqjbixogf
Kvqjslkvqhjdvqwjdijdakdqjkiwqdvlogjiejdvqjcleqjdvqlnjeadvqnjvahjclpqh
aohjuoisojaohjcipqhjsvqojvq,jdii,jsakjajclddcqjtvlchf

SvqojQhoajsakjadjcakdjacioq,jkvqj nqadvqhjaj lg,jgqoxloqjklgvjiejnqclqef
Ajeqqclogjdvadjsakjxoeawlclanj xdjpqnbjhqcltlixkjtawqjipqnjvqnfjKvq
sacuqhjaccjdvnixgvjdvqjvixkq,jeniwjioqjniiwjdijaoidvqn,jakjlejlokrqtdlog
ldjeinjdvqjelnkdjdlwqfjKvqjdnlqhjdvqjpanlixkjtvalnkjaohjcixogqk,jakjle
kvqjvahjoqpqnjkadjaohjnqtcloqhjxriojdvqwj qeinqfjAohjkvqjrqnaw xcadqh
anixohjdvqjixdklhqjiejdvqjvixkq,jlopqkdlgadlog,jciiulogjdijkqqjle
slohiskjaohjkvxddqnkjsqnqjkqtxnqjaohjlojinhqnfjDvqjecisqnkjsqnqjcluq
oqsjat.xalodaotqk;jkvqjarrniatvqhjdvqwjlojajeawlclanjkrlnld,jaohjwahq
vqnkqcejadjviwqjawiogjdvqwfjDvqjganhqojsacukjsqnqjhawr,jaohjQhoajtaccqh
dijdvqjwalhjdij nlogjixdjvqnjnx  qnjkaohackfjAohjdvqnqjkvqjkdabqh,jaoh
kdiirqh,jhlgglogjanixohjdvqjrcaodk,jdnlwwlog,jrltulogjhqah,jhnbjcqapqkf
Dvqjtvlchnqo'kjclddcqjhigjtawqjixd,jlodqneqnlog,jgqddlogjlojvqnjsabfjKvq
ktichqhjvlw,jcaxgvqhjadjvlw,jrcabqhjsldvjvlwfjDvqjganhqojkwqccqhjkijgiih
aohjciiuqhjkijrnqddbjlojdvqjaedqnoiiojkxoclgvdfjQhoajrcxtuqhjaccjdvq
 nlgvdjecisqnkjkvqjtixchjeloh,jaohjsqodjlodijdvqjvixkqjsldvjdvqw,jkvq
aohjdvqjclddcqjhigf

Qpqojdvqjuldtvqojakkxwqhjajkxhhqojlodqnqkdlogjtvanatdqnjsvltvjkvqjvah
oqpqnj qeinqjrqntqlpqhfjKvqjsqodjlojdijglpqjhlnqtdliokjdijdvqjtiiu,jdi
kabjdvadjdvqj xdtvqnjsixchjvapqjdij nlogjwxtvjcqkkjwqad,jdvadjdvqbjsixch
nq.xlnqjiocbjvacejdvqlnjxkxacj.xaodldbjiej nqah,jiejwlcujaohjgnitqnlqkf
Kvqjdichjdvqjtiiujdvadjkvqjvqnkqcejsixchj qjgnqadcbjittxrlqhjhxnlog
WnfjRiodqcclqn'kja kqotq,jaohjkvqj qggqhjvqnjdijdauqjaccjdvixgvdjaoh
nqkriokl lcldbjiejdvqjcanhqnjxriojvqnjisojkvixchqnkf

DvadjolgvdjQhoajhloqhjacioqfjDvqjtaohqca na,jsldvjajeqsjtaohcqkjlojdvq
tqodqnjiejdvqjda cq,jgapqjaccjdvqjclgvdjkvqjoqqhqhfjIxdklhqjdvqjtlntcq
iejclgvdjlojsvltvjkvqjkad,jdvqjcangqjhlolog-niiwjciiuqhjkicqwojaoh
kvahisbfjDvqjtiiu,jrcatqhjxriojvqnjwqddcq,jkqnpqhjajhqcltlixkjnqrakd--a
cxktlixkjdqohqnciloj nilcqhjajrilodfjDvqjsloqjdakdqhjgiih;jdvqjwannio
gcatqjkqqwqhjdij qjzxkdjsvadjkvqjsaodqhfjLdjsakjkijrcqakaod,jdii,jdi
hloqjlojajtiweinda cqjrqlgoilnf

Kvqjdvixgvdjajclddcqjkqodlwqodaccbja ixdjCqiotqjaohjdvqjtvlchnqo,jaoh
siohqnqhjsvadjdvqbjsqnqjhilogfjAkjkvqjgapqjajhalodbjktnarjinjdsijdijdvq
higglq,jkvqjdacuqhjlodlwadqcbjdijvlwja ixdjQdlqooqjaohjNaixcfjVqjsak
 qklhqjvlwkqcejsldvjakdiolkvwqodjaohjhqclgvdjipqnjdvqkqjtiwraolioa cq
ahpaotqk,jaohjkvisqhjvlkjarrnqtladlioj bjvlkjclddcqj.xltu,jkoarrbj anuk
aohjajclpqcbjagldadliof

DvqojQhoajkadjlojdvqjcl nanbjaedqnjhlooqnjaohjnqahjQwqnkiojxodlcjkvq
gnqsjkcqqrbfjKvqjnqaclmqhjdvadjkvqjvahjoqgcqtdqhjvqnjnqahlog,jaoh
hqdqnwloqhjdijkdandjaoqsjxriojajtixnkqjiejlwrniplogjkdxhlqk,joisjdvad
vqnjdlwqjsakjtiwrcqdqcbjvqnjisojdijhijsldvjakjkvqjcluqhf

Aedqnjajnqenqkvlogj adv,jQhoajsqodjdij qhfjAohjakjkvqjkoxggcqh
tiweinda cbj qoqadvjdvqjqlhqnhisojajkqokqjiejnqkdexcoqkkjlopahqhjvqn,
kxtvjakjkvqjvahjoidjuoisoj qeinqf




YYP


SvqojdvqjsqadvqnjsakjhanujaohjtcixhbjQhoajtixchjoidjsinufjKvqjoqqhqhjdvq
kxojdijwqccisjaohjdqwrqnjvqnjwiihjdijdvqjkdltulogjrilodfjKvqjvahjnqatvqh
ajkdagqjsvqojkvqjkqqwqhjdij qjoijciogqnjeqqclogjvqnjsab,jsinulog,jsvqo
lojdvqjvxwin,jsldvjkxnqoqkkjaohjqakqfjAohj qlogjhqpilhjiejaw ldlio,jaoh
kdnlplogjoidjdisanhjattiwrclkvwqod,jkvqjhnqsjkadlkeatdliojeniwjdvqjsinu
lojldkqcef

IojnalobjinjwqcaotvicbjhabkjQhoajsqodjixdjaohjkixgvdjdvqjkitlqdbjie
dvqjenlqohkjkvqjvahjwahqjadjGnaohjLkcqfjInjqckqjkvqjkdabqhjlohiink
aohjoxnkqhjajwiihjsldvjsvltvjkvqjsakj qtiwlogjdiijeawlclanjeinjvqnjiso
tiweindjaohjrqatqjiejwlohfjLdjsakjoidjhqkraln;j xdjldjkqqwqhjdijvqnjak
lejcleqjsqnqjrakklogj b,jcqaplogjldkjrniwlkqj niuqojaohjxoexcelccqhf
Bqdjdvqnqjsqnqjidvqnjhabkjsvqojkvqjclkdqoqh,jsakjcqhjiojaohjhqtqlpqhj b
enqkvjrniwlkqkjsvltvjvqnjbixdvjvqchjixdjdijvqnf

Kvqjsqodjagalojdijdvqjnatqk,jaohjagalofjActqqjAni lojaohjWnkfjVlgvtawr
taccqhjeinjvqnjioqj nlgvdjaedqnoiiojlojAni lo'kjhnagfjWnkfjVlgvtawrjsak
ajsinchcbj xdjxoaeeqtdqh,jlodqcclgqod,jkclw,jdaccj ciohqjsiwaojlojdvq
eindlqk,jsldvjaojlohleeqnqodjwaooqnjaohj cxqjqbqkjdvadjkdanqhfjKvqjvah
ajhaxgvdqnjsvijkqnpqhjvqnjakjajrnqdqydjeinjtxcdlpadlogjdvqjkitlqdbjie
bixogjwqojiejeakvliofjActqqjAni lojsakjioqjiejdvqwfjVqjsakjajeawlclan
elgxnqjadjdvqjnatqjtixnkq,jdvqjirqna,jdvqjeakvlioa cqjtcx kfjDvqnqjsak
ajrqnrqdxacjkwlcqjlojvlkjqbqk,jsvltvjkqchiwjealcqhjdijasauqoja
tinnqkriohlogjtvqqnexcoqkkjlojaobjioqjsvijciiuqhjlodijdvqwjaohjclkdqoqh
dijvlkjgiih-vxwinqhjpiltqfjVlkjwaooqnjsakj.xlqd,jaohjadjdlwqkjajclddcq
lokicqodfjVqjrikkqkkqhjajgiihjelgxnq,jajrcqaklogjeatq,joidjipqn xnhqoqh
sldvjhqrdvjiejdvixgvdjinjeqqclog;jaohjvlkjhnqkkjsakjdvadjiejdvq
tiopqodlioacjwaojiejeakvliof

VqjahwlnqhjQhoajqydnapagaodcb,jaedqnjwqqdlogjvqnjadjdvqjnatqkjsldvjvqn
eadvqnfjVqjvahjwqdjvqnj qeinqjiojidvqnjittakliok,j xdjkvqjvahjkqqwqhjdi
vlwjxoarrniatva cqjxodlcjdvadjhabfjLdjsakjadjvlkjlokdlgadliojdvadjWnkf
VlgvtawrjtaccqhjdijakujvqnjdijgijsldvjdvqwjdijdvqjZituqbjTcx jdijsldoqkk
dvqjdxnejqpqodjiejdvqjkqakiof

Dvqnqjsqnqjrikkl cbjajeqsjdnatujwqojixdjdvqnqjsvijuoqsjdvqjnatqjvinkqjak
sqccjakjQhoa,j xdjdvqnqjsakjtqndalocbjoioqjsvijuoqsjldj qddqnfjKvqjkad
 qdsqqojvqnjdsijtiwraoliokjakjioqjvaplogjaxdvinldbjdijkrqaufjKvqjcaxgvqh
adjAni lo'kjrnqdqokliok,jaohjhqrcinqhjWnkfjVlgvtawr'kjlgoinaotqfjDvq
natqjvinkqjsakjajenlqohjaohjlodlwadqjakkitladqjiejvqnjtvlchviihfjDvq
adwikrvqnqjiejdvqjkda cqkjaohjdvqj nqadvjiejdvqj cxqjgnakkjrahhitu
nqplpqhjlojvqnjwqwinbjaohjclogqnqhjlojvqnjoikdnlckfjKvqjhlhjoidjrqntqlpq
dvadjkvqjsakjdaculogjcluqjvqnjeadvqnjakjdvqjkcqqujgqchlogkjaw cqhjlo
nqplqsj qeinqjdvqwfjKvqjrcabqhjeinjpqnbjvlgvjkdauqk,jaohjeindxoqjeapinqh
vqnfjDvqjeqpqnjiejdvqjgawqjecawqhjlojvqnjtvqqukjaohjqbqk,jaohjldjgid
lodijvqnj ciihjaohjlodijvqnj nalojcluqjaojlodiyltaodfjRqircqjdxnoqh
dvqlnjvqahkjdijciiujadjvqn,jaohjwinqjdvaojioqjcqodjaojaddqodlpqjqanjdi
vqnjxddqnaotqk,jvirlogjdvqnq bjdijkqtxnqjdvqjqcxklpqj xdjqpqn-hqklnqh
“dlrf”jAni lojtaxgvdjdvqjtiodagliojiejqytldqwqodjsvltvjhnqsjvlwjdi
QhoajcluqjajwagoqdfjWnkfjVlgvtawrjnqwaloqh,jakjxkxac,jxowipqh,jsldvjvqn
lohleeqnqodjkdanqjaohjxrcledqhjqbq niskf

QhoajkdabqhjaohjhloqhjsldvjWnkfjVlgvtawrjxrioj qlogjxngqhjdijhijkif
Ani lojackijnqwaloqhjaohjkqodjasabjvlkjhnagf

Dvqjhlooqnjsakj.xlqdjaohjxolodqnqkdlog,jkapqjeinjdvqjtvqqnexcjqeeindk
iejAni lojdijqoclpqojdvlogkfjWnkfjVlgvtawrjhqrcinqhjdvqja kqotqjiejvqn
haxgvdqnjeniwjdvqjnatqk,jaohjdnlqhjdijtiopqbjdijvqnjsvadjkvqjvahjwlkkqh
 bjgilogjdijdvqj“Haodqjnqahlog”jlokdqahjiejzilologjdvqwfjDvqjglncjvqch
ajgqnaolxwjcqaejxrjdijvqnjoikqjaohjkalhjoidvlog,j xdjciiuqhjuoislogjaoh
oiotiwwlddacfjWnfjVlgvtawrjsakjajrcalo,j ach-vqahqhjwao,jsvijiocb
dacuqhjxohqnjtiwrxckliofjVqjsakjxonqkrioklpqfjWnkfjVlgvtawrjsakjexccjie
hqcltadqjtixndqkbjaohjtioklhqnadliojdisanhjvqnjvxk aohfjKvqjahhnqkkqh
wikdjiejvqnjtiopqnkadliojdijvlwjadjda cqfjDvqbjkadjlojdvqjcl nanbjaedqn
hlooqnjaohjnqahjdvqjqpqologjrarqnkjdigqdvqnjxohqnjdvqjhnirclgvd;jsvlcq
dvqjbixogqnjrqircqjsqodjlodijdvqjhnaslog-niiwjoqanj bjaohjdacuqhfjWlkk
VlgvtawrjrcabqhjkiwqjkqcqtdliokjeniwjGnlqgjxriojdvqjrlaoifjKvqjkqqwqhjdi
vapqjarrnqvqohqhjaccjiejdvqjtiwrikqn'kjtichoqkkjaohjoioqjiejvlkjriqdnbf
SvlcqjQhoajclkdqoqhjkvqjtixchjoidjvqcrjsiohqnlogjlejkvqjvahjcikdjvqn
dakdqjeinjwxkltf

Svqojdvqjdlwqjtawqjeinjvqnjdijgijviwq,jWnfjVlgvtawrjgnxodqhjajcawqjieeqn
dijqktindjvqn,jciiulogjhisojadjvlkjkclrrqnqhjeqqdjsldvjdatdcqkkjtiotqnof
LdjsakjAni lojsvijdiiujvqnjviwqfjDvqjtanjnlhqjsakjciog,jaohjldjsakjcadq
svqojdvqbjnqatvqhjQkrcaoahqjKdnqqdfjAni lojakuqhjrqnwlkkliojdijqodqnjein
ajkqtiohjdijclgvdjvlkjtlganqddq--vlkjwadtvjkaeqjsakjqwrdbfjVqjelccqhjvlk
wadtvjkaeq,j xdjhlhjoidjclgvdjvlkjtlganqddqjxodlcjvqjcqedjvqn,jaedqnjkvq
vahjqyrnqkkqhjvqnjslcclogoqkkjdijgijdijdvqjnatqkjsldvjvlwjagalof

QhoajsakjoqldvqnjdlnqhjoinjkcqqrbfjKvqjsakjvxognbjagalo,jeinjdvq
Vlgvtawrjhlooqn,jdvixgvjiejqytqccqodj.xacldb,jvahjcatuqhja xohaotqfjKvq
nxwwagqhjlojdvqjcanhqnjaohj nixgvdjeindvjajkcltqjiejGnxbqnqjaohjkiwq
tnatuqnkfjKvqjirqoqhjaj iddcqjiej qqnjsvltvjkvqjeixohjlojdvqjltq iyf
QhoajeqcdjqydnqwqcbjnqkdcqkkjaohjqytldqhfjKvqjpataodcbjvxwwqhja
eaodakdltjdxoqjakjkvqjriuqhjadjdvqjsiihjqw qnkjiojdvqjvqandvjaohjwxotvqh
ajtnatuqnf

Kvqjsaodqhjkiwqdvlogjdijvarrqo--kiwqdvlog,jaobdvlog;jkvqjhlhjoidjuois
svadfjKvqjnqgnqddqhjdvadjkvqjvahjoidjwahqjAni lojkdabjajvacejvixnjdi
dacujipqnjdvqjvinkqkjsldvjvqnfjKvqjtixodqhjdvqjwioqbjkvqjvahjsiofj xd
dvqnqjsakjoidvlogjqckqjdijhi,jkijkvqjsqodjdij qh,jaohjdikkqhjdvqnqjein
vixnkjlojajkindjiejwioidioixkjagldadliof

Lojdvqjwlhhcqjiejdvqjolgvdjkvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvadjkvqjvahjeingiddqojdi
snldqjvqnjnqgxcanjcqddqnjdijvqnjvxk aoh;jaohjkvqjhqtlhqhjdijhijkijoqyd
habjaohjdqccjvlwja ixdjvqnjaedqnoiiojadjdvqjZituqbjTcx fjKvqjcabjslhq
asauqjtiwriklogjajcqddqnjsvltvjsakjoidvlogjcluqjdvqjioqjsvltvjkvqjsnidq
oqydjhabfjSvqojdvqjwalhjasiuqjvqnjlojdvqjwinologjQhoajsakjhnqawlogjie
WnfjVlgvtawrjrcablogjdvqjrlaoijadjdvqjqodnaotqjiejajwxkltjkdinqjiojTaoac
Kdnqqd,jsvlcqjvlkjsleqjsakjkablogjdijActqqjAni lo,jakjdvqbj ianhqhjao
QkrcaoahqjKdnqqdjtan:

“Svadjajrldbjdvadjkijwxtvjdacqodjvakj qqojoqgcqtdqh!j xdjLjwxkdjgif”

Svqo,jajeqsjhabkjcadqn,jActqqjAni lojagalojtaccqhjeinjQhoajlojvlkjhnag,
WnkfjVlgvtawrjsakjoidjsldvjvlwfjVqjkalhjdvqbjsixchjrltujvqnjxrfj xdjak
dvadjcahbjvahjoidj qqojarrnlkqhjiejvlkjlodqodliojiejrltulogjvqnjxr,jkvq
sakjoidjadjviwqfjDvqjhaxgvdqnjsakjzxkdjcqaplogjdvqjvixkqjdijaddqohjdvq
wqqdlogjiejaj naotvjEicujCinqjKitlqdb,jaohjnqgnqddqhjdvadjkvqjtixchjoid
attiwraobjdvqwfjAni lojarrqanqhjoiorcxkqh,jaohjakuqhjQhoajlejdvqnqjsqnq
aobjioqjqckqjkvqjtanqhjdijakuf

Kvqjhlhjoidjhqqwjldjsindvjsvlcqjdijgijlojkqantvjiejaobjiejdvq
eakvlioa cqjat.xalodaotqkjeniwjsviwjkvqjvahjsldvhnasojvqnkqcefjKvq
dvixgvdjiejWahawqjNadlgoiccq,j xdjuoqsjdvadjvqnjealnjenlqohjhlhjoid
cqapqjdvqjvixkq,jqytqrdjdijdauqjajcaogxlhjsacujanixohjdvqj citujsldvjvqn
vxk aohjaedqnjolgvdeaccfjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjsixchjvapqjcaxgvqhjadjkxtvja
nq.xqkdjeniwjQhoafjWahawqjCq nxojwlgvdjvapqjqozibqhjdvqjixdlog,j xdjein
kiwqjnqakiojQhoajhlhjoidjsaodjvqnfjKijdvqbjsqodjacioq,jkvqjaohjAni lof

DvqjaedqnoiiojsakjlodqokqcbjlodqnqkdlogjdijvqnfjDvqjqytldqwqodjtawq
 atujxriojvqnjcluqjajnqwlddqodjeqpqnfjVqnjdacujgnqsjeawlclanjaoh
tioelhqodlacfjLdjsakjoijca injdij qtiwqjlodlwadqjsldvjAni lofjVlkjwaooqn
lopldqhjqakbjtioelhqotqfjDvqjrnqclwloanbjkdagqjiej qtiwlogjat.xalodqh
sakjioqjsvltvjvqjacsabkjqohqapinqhjdijlgoinqjsvqojajrnqddbjaohjqogaglog
siwaojsakjtiotqnoqhf

VqjkdabqhjaohjhloqhjsldvjQhoafjVqjkdabqhjaohjkadj qklhqjdvqjsiihjelnqf
Dvqbjcaxgvqhjaohjdacuqh;jaohj qeinqjldjsakjdlwqjdijgijvqjsakjdqcclog
vqnjvisjhleeqnqodjcleqjwlgvdjvapqj qqojlejvqjvahjuoisojvqnjbqankj qeinqf
Sldvjlogqoxixkjenaouoqkkjvqjkriuqjiejsvadjajsltuqh,jlcc-hlktlrcloqhj ib
vqjvahj qqo,jaohjlwrxcklpqcbjhnqsjxrjvlkjtxeejdijqyvl ldjxriojvlkjsnlkd
dvqjktanjeniwjajka qnjtxdjsvltvjvqjvahjnqtqlpqhjlojajhxqcjixdklhqjie
RanlkjsvqojvqjsakjoloqdqqofjKvqjdixtvqhjvlkjvaohjakjkvqjktaooqhjdvqjnqh
tltadnltqjiojdvqjloklhqjiejvlkjsvldqjsnlkdfjAj.xltujlwrxckqjdvadjsak
kiwqsvadjkrakwihltjlwrqccqhjvqnjelogqnkjdijtcikqjlojajkindjiejtcxdtv
xriojvlkjvaohfjVqjeqcdjdvqjrnqkkxnqjiejvqnjrilodqhjoalckjlojdvqjecqkvjie
vlkjracwf

Kvqjanikqjvakdlcbjaohjsacuqhjdisanhjdvqjwaodqcf

“Dvqjklgvdjiejajsixohjinjktanjacsabkjagldadqkjaohjkltuqokjwq,”jkvqjkalhf
“Ljkvixcho'djvapqjciiuqhjadjldf”

“Lj qgjbixnjranhio,”jvqjqodnqadqh,jeiccislogjvqn;j“ldjoqpqnjittxnnqhjdi
wqjdvadjldjwlgvdj qjnqrxcklpqf”

Vqjkdiihjtcikqjdijvqn,jaohjdvqjqeeniodqnbjlojvlkjqbqkjnqrqccqhjdvqjich,
paolkvlogjkqcejlojvqn,jbqdjhnqsjaccjvqnjasauqologjkqokxixkoqkkfjVqjkas
qoixgvjlojvqnjeatqjdijlwrqcjvlwjdijdauqjvqnjvaohjaohjvichjldjsvlcqjvq
kalhjvlkjclogqnlogjgiihjolgvdf

“Slccjbixjgijdijdvqjnatqkjagalo?”jvqjakuqhf

“Oi,”jkvqjkalhfj“L'pqjvahjqoixgvjiejdvqjnatqkfjLjhio'djsaodjdijcikqjacc
dvqjwioqbjL'pqjsio,jaohjL'pqjgidjdijsinujsvqojdvqjsqadvqnjlkj nlgvd,
lokdqahjie--”

“Bqk;jsinu;jdij qjkxnqfjBixjrniwlkqhjdijkvisjwqjbixnjsinufjSvadjwinolog
wabjLjtiwqjxrjdijbixnjadqclqn?jDi-winnis?”

“Oi!”

“Habjaedqn?”

“Oi,joif”

“Iv,jrcqakqjhio'djnqexkqjwq!jLjuoisjkiwqdvlogjiejkxtvjdvlogkfjLjwlgvd
vqcrjbixjsldvjajkdnabjkxggqkdliojinjdsif”

“OifjGiihjolgvdfjSvbjhio'djbixjgijaedqnjbixjvapqjkalhjgiihjolgvd?jL
hio'djcluqjbix,”jkvqjsqodjiojlojajvlgv,jqytldqhjrldtv,jaddqwrdlog
dijhnasjasabjvqnjvaohfjKvqjeqcdjdvadjvqnjsinhkjcatuqhjhlgoldbjaoh
klotqnldb,jaohjkvqjuoqsjdvadjvqjeqcdjldf

“L'wjkinnbjbixjhio'djcluqjwqfjL'wjkinnbjLjieeqohqhjbixfjVisjvapqjL
ieeqohqhjbix?jSvadjvapqjLjhioq?jTao'djbixjeinglpqjwq?”jAohjvqj qodjaoh
rnqkkqhjvlkjclrkjxriojvqnjvaohjakjlejvqjslkvqhjoqpqnjwinqjdijsldvhnas
dvqwf

“WnfjAni lo,”jkvqjtiwrcaloqh,j“L'wjgnqadcbjxrkqdj bjdvqjqytldqwqodjie
dvqjaedqnoiio;jL'wjoidjwbkqcefjWbjwaooqnjwxkdjvapqjwlkcqhjbixjlojkiwq
sabfjLjslkvjbixjdijgi,jrcqakqf”jKvqjkriuqjlojajwioidioixk,jhxccjdioqf
Vqjdiiujvlkjvadjeniwjdvqjda cq,jaohjkdiihjsldvjqbqkjdxnoqhjeniwjvqn,
ciiulogjlodijdvqjhblogjelnqfjEinjajwiwqodjinjdsijvqjuqrdjaojlwrnqkklpq
klcqotqf

“Bixnjwaooqnjvakjoidjwlkcqhjwq,jWnkfjRiodqcclqn,”jvqjkalhjeloaccbfj“Wb
isojqwidliokjvapqjhioqjdvadfjLjtixcho'djvqcrjldfjSvqojL'wjoqanjbix,jvis
tixchjLjvqcrjld?jHio'djdvloujaobdvlogjiejld,jhio'dj idvqn,jrcqakqfjBix
kqq,jLjgijsvqojbixjtiwwaohjwqfjLejbixjslkvjwqjdijkdabjasab,jLjkvaccjhi
kifjLejbixjcqdjwqjtiwqj atu,jL--iv!jbixjslccjcqdjwqjtiwqj atu?”

Vqjtakdjioqjarrqaclogjgcaotqjadjvqn,jdijsvltvjkvqjwahqjoijnqkriokqf
ActqqjAni lo'kjwaooqnjsakjkijgqoxloqjdvadjldjiedqojhqtqlpqhjqpqo
vlwkqcef

QhoajhlhjoidjtanqjinjdvloujsvqdvqnjldjsqnqjgqoxloqjinjoidfjSvqojkvq
sakjacioqjkvqjciiuqhjwqtvaoltaccbjadjdvqj atujiejvqnjvaohjsvltvjvqjvah
ulkkqhjkijsanwcbfjDvqojkvqjcqaoqhjvqnjvqahjhisojiojdvqjwaodqcrlqtqfjKvq
eqcdjkiwqsvadjcluqjajsiwaojsvijlojajwiwqodjiejrakkliojlkj qdnabqhjlodi
aojatdjiejloelhqcldb,jaohjnqaclmqkjdvqjklgoleltaotqjiejdvqjatdjsldvixd
 qlogjsviccbjasauqoqhjeniwjldkjgcawixnfjDvqjdvixgvdjsakjrakklogjpagxqcb
dvnixgvjvqnjwloh,j“Svadjsixchjvqjdvlou?”

Kvqjhlhjoidjwqaojvqnjvxk aoh;jkvqjsakjdvloulogjiejNi qndjCq nxofjVqn
vxk aohjkqqwqhjdijvqnjoisjcluqjajrqnkiojsviwjkvqjvahjwannlqhjsldvixd
cipqjakjaojqytxkqf

KvqjcldjajtaohcqjaohjsqodjxrjdijvqnjniiwfjActqqjAni lojsakja kicxdqcb
oidvlogjdijvqnfjBqdjvlkjrnqkqotq,jvlkjwaooqnk,jdvqjsanwdvjiejvlk
gcaotqk,jaohja ipqjaccjdvqjdixtvjiejvlkjclrkjxriojvqnjvaohjvahjatdqh
cluqjajoantidltjxriojvqnf

Kvqjkcqrdjajcaogxinixkjkcqqr,jlodqnsipqojsldvjpaolkvlogjhnqawkf




YYPL


ActqqjAni lojsnidqjQhoajaojqca inadqjoidqjiejaricigb,jracrldaodjsldv
klotqnldbfjLdjqw annakkqhjvqn;jeinjlojajtiicqn,j.xlqdqnjwiwqodjld
arrqanqhjdijvqn,ja kxnhjdvadjkvqjkvixchjvapqjdauqojvlkjatdliojki
kqnlixkcb,jkijhnawadltaccbfjKvqjeqcdjkxnqjdvadjdvqjklgoleltaotqjiejdvq
svicqjittxnnqotqjvahjcalojlojvqnjisojkqce-tioktlixkoqkkfjLejkvqjlgoinqh
vlkjoidqjldjsixchjglpqjxohxqjlwrindaotqjdijajdnlplacjaeealnfjLejkvq
nqrclqhjdijldjlojajkqnlixkjkrlnldjldjsixchjkdlccjcqapqjlojvlkjwloh
dvqjlwrnqkkliojdvadjkvqjvahjlojajkxktqrdl cqjwiwqodjblqchqhjdijvlk
loecxqotqfjAedqnjacc,jldjsakjoijgnqadjwaddqnjdijvapqjioq'kjvaohjulkkqhf
KvqjsakjrnipiuqhjadjvlkjvaplogjsnlddqojdvqjaricigbfjKvqjaoksqnqhjlojak
clgvdjaohj aodqnlogjajkrlnldjakjkvqjeaotlqhjldjhqkqnpqh,jaohjkalhjkvq
sixchj qjgcahjdijvapqjvlwjciiujlojxriojvqnjadjsinujsvqoqpqnjvqjeqcdjdvq
lotcloadliojaohjvlkj xkloqkkjgapqjvlwjdvqjirrindxoldbf

Vqjnqkriohqhjadjiotqj bjrnqkqodlogjvlwkqcejadjvqnjviwqjsldvjaccjvlk
hlkanwlogjoalpqdqfjAohjdvqojdvqnqjsakjktantqcbjajhabjsvltvjeiccisqh
dvadjkvqjhlhjoidjkqqjvlwjinjsakjoidjnqwlohqhjiejvlwfjVqjsakjrnicleltjlo
rnqdqydkfjVlkjaddldxhqj qtawqjioqjiejgiih-vxwinqhjkx kqnplqotqjaohjdatld
ahinadliofjVqjsakjnqahbjadjaccjdlwqkjdijkx wldjdijvqnjwiihk,jsvltvjsqnq
akjiedqojulohjakjdvqbjsqnqjtichfjKvqjgnqsjattxkdiwqhjdijvlwfjDvqbj qtawq
lodlwadqjaohjenlqohcbj bjlwrqntqrdl cqjhqgnqqk,jaohjdvqoj bjcqarkfjVq
kiwqdlwqkjdacuqhjlojajsabjdvadjakdiolkvqhjvqnjadjelnkdjaohj nixgvdjdvq
tnlwkiojlodijvqnjeatq;jlojajsabjdvadjrcqakqhjvqnjadjcakd,jarrqaclogjdi
dvqjaolwaclkwjdvadjkdlnnqhjlwradlqodcbjsldvlojvqnf

Dvqnqjsakjoidvlogjsvltvjkij.xlqdqhjdvqjdxnwilcjiejQhoa'kjkqokqkjak
ajplkldjdijWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmfjLdjsakjdvqo,jlojdvqjrnqkqotqjiejdvad
rqnkioacldbjsvltvjsakjieeqoklpqjdijvqn,jdvadjdvqjsiwao,j bjvqnjhlploq
and,jkqqwqhjdijnqatvjQhoa'kjkrlnldjaohjkqdjldjenqqf

Ldjsakjwlkdb,jsldvjvqapb,jcisqnlogjadwikrvqnq,jioqjaedqnoiio,jsvqo
Qhoajtclw qhjdvqjkdalnkjdijdvqjrlaolkd'kjarandwqodkjxohqnjdvqjniiefjVqn
tcidvqkjsqnqjhnlrrlogjsldvjwilkdxnqfjKvqjeqcdjtvlccqhjaohjrlotvqhjakjkvq
qodqnqhjdvqjniiwfjWahqwilkqccqjsakjriulogjadjajnxkdbjkdipqjdvadjkwiuqhja
clddcqjaohjsanwqhjdvqjniiwjlohleeqnqodcbfjKvqjsakjqohqapinlogjdijvqad
ajridjiejtviticadqjiojdvqjkdipqfjDvqjniiwjciiuqhjtvqqncqkkjaohjhlogbjdi
QhoajakjkvqjqodqnqhfjAj xkdjiej qqdvipqo,jtipqnqhjsldvjajviihjiejhxkd,
ktiscqhjadjvqnjeniwjdvqjwaodqcrlqtqf

“Av!jvqnqjtiwqkjdvqjkxoclgvd!”jqytcalwqhjWahqwilkqccq,jnlklogjeniwjvqn
uoqqkj qeinqjdvqjkdipqfj“Oisjldjslccj qjsanwjaohj nlgvdjqoixgv;jLjtao
cqdjdvqjelnqjacioqf”

Kvqjtcikqhjdvqjkdipqjhiinjsldvjaj aog,jaohjarrniatvlog,jakklkdqhjlo
nqwiplogjQhoa'kjhnlrrlogjwatulodikvf

“Bixjanqjtich;jbixjciiujwlkqna cqfjDvqjtviticadqjslccjkiioj qjvidfj xd
sixchjbixjnadvqnjvapqjajdakdqjiej naohb?jLjvapqjktantqcbjdixtvqhjdvq
 iddcqjsvltvjbixj nixgvdjwqjeinjwbjtichf”jAjrlqtqjiejnqhjecaooqcjsak
snarrqhjanixohjWahqwilkqccq'kjdvniad;jajkdleejoqtujtiwrqccqhjvqnjdijvich
vqnjvqahjiojioqjklhqf

“Ljslccjdauqjkiwqj naohb,”jkalhjQhoa,jkvlpqnlogjakjkvqjnqwipqhjvqn
gcipqkjaohjipqnkviqkfjKvqjhnaoujdvqjcl.xinjeniwjdvqjgcakkjakjajwaojsixch
vapqjhioqfjDvqojecloglogjvqnkqcejxriojdvqjxotiweinda cqjkieajkvqjkalh,
“Wahqwilkqccq,jLjawjgilogjdijwipqjasabjeniwjwbjvixkqjiojQkrcaoahq
Kdnqqdf”

“Av!”jqzatxcadqhjdvqjwxkltlao,joqldvqnjkxnrnlkqhjoinjqkrqtlaccb
lodqnqkdqhfjOidvlogjqpqnjkqqwqhjdijakdiolkvjvqnjpqnbjwxtvfjKvqjsak
qohqapinlogjdijahzxkdjdvqj xotvjiejplicqdkjsvltvjvahj qtiwqjciikqjeniw
ldkjeakdqologjlojvqnjvalnfjQhoajhnqsjvqnjhisojxriojdvqjkiea,jaohjdaulog
ajrlojeniwjvqnjisojvaln,jkqtxnqhjdvqjkva  bjandleltlacjecisqnkjlojdvqln
attxkdiwqhjrcatqf

“Anqo'djbixjakdiolkvqh?”

“Rakka cbfjSvqnqjanqjbixjgilog?jdijOqsjBinu?jdijL qnplccq?jdijbixn
eadvqnjlojWlkklkklrrl?jsvqnq?”

“Zxkdjdsijkdqrkjasab,”jcaxgvqhjQhoa,j“lojajclddcqjeixn-niiwjvixkqjanixoh
dvqjtinoqnfjLdjciiukjkijtimb,jkijlopldlogjaohjnqkdexc,jsvqoqpqnjLjrakk
 b;jaohjld'kjeinjnqodfjL'wjdlnqhjciiulogjaedqnjdvadj lgjvixkqfjLdjoqpqn
kqqwqhjcluqjwloq,jaobsab--cluqjviwqfjLd'kjdiijwxtvjdnix cqfjLjvapqjdi
uqqrjdiijwaobjkqnpaodkfjLjawjdlnqhj idvqnlogjsldvjdvqwf”

“Dvadjlkjoidjbixnjdnxqjnqakio,jwaj qccqfjDvqnqjlkjoijxkqjlojdqcclogjwq
clqkfjLjhio'djuoisjbixnjnqakio,j xdjbixjvapqjoidjdichjwqjdvqjdnxdvf”
jQhoajhlhjoidjrnidqkdjinjqohqapinjdijzxkdlebjvqnkqcef

“Dvqjvixkq,jdvqjwioqbjdvadjrniplhqkjeinjld,janqjoidjwloqfjLko'djdvad
qoixgvjnqakio?”

“Dvqbjanqjbixnjvxk aoh'k,”jnqdxnoqhjWahqwilkqccq,jsldvjajkvnxgjaohja
wacltlixkjqcqpadliojiejdvqjqbq niskf

“Iv!jLjkqqjdvqnqjlkjoijhqtqlplogjbixfjDvqojcqdjwqjdqccjbix:jLdjlkja
tarnltqfjLjvapqjajclddcqjwioqbjiejwbjisojeniwjwbjwidvqn'kjqkdadq,jsvltv
wbjeadvqnjkqohkjwqj bjhnl cqdkfjLjsiojajcangqjkxwjdvlkjslodqnjiojdvq
natqk,jaohjLjawj qgloologjdijkqccjwbjkuqdtvqkfjCalhrinqjlkjwinqjaohjwinq
rcqakqhjsldvjwbjsinu;jvqjkabkjldjgniskjlojeintqjaohjlohlplhxacldbfjL
taooidjzxhgqjiejdvadjwbkqce,j xdjLjeqqcjdvadjLjvapqjgaloqhjlojqakq
aohjtioelhqotqfjVisqpqn,jakjLjkalh,jLjvapqjkichjajgiihjwaobjdvnixgv
CalhrinqfjLjtaojclpqjlojdvqjdlobjvixkqjeinjclddcqjinjoidvlog,jsldvjioq
kqnpaodfjIchjTqcqkdloq,jsvijsinukjittaklioaccbjeinjwq,jkabkjkvqjslcc
tiwqjkdabjsldvjwqjaohjhijwbjsinufjLjuoisjLjkvaccjcluqjld,jcluqjdvq
eqqclogjiejenqqhiwjaohjlohqrqohqotqf”

“Svadjhiqkjbixnjvxk aohjkab?”

“LjvapqjoidjdichjvlwjbqdfjLjiocbjdvixgvdjiejldjdvlkjwinologfjVqjslcc
dvloujLjawjhqwqodqh,joijhix dfjRqnvarkjbixjdvloujkif”

Wahqwilkqccqjkviiujvqnjvqahjkciscbfj“Bixnjnqakiojlkjoidjbqdjtcqanjdi
wq,”jkvqjkalhf

Oqldvqnjsakjldj.xldqjtcqanjdijQhoajvqnkqce;j xdjldjxoeichqhjldkqcejak
kvqjkadjeinjajsvlcqjlojklcqotqfjLokdlotdjvahjrniwrdqhjvqnjdijrxdjasab
vqnjvxk aoh'kj ixodbjlojtakdlogjieejvqnjaccqglaotqfjKvqjhlhjoidjuoisjvis
ldjsixchj qjsvqojvqjnqdxnoqhfjDvqnqjsixchjvapqjdij qjaojxohqnkdaohlog,
aojqyrcaoadliofjTiohldliokjsixchjkiwqjsabjahzxkdjdvqwkqcpqk,jkvqjeqcd;
 xdjsvadqpqnjtawq,jkvqjvahjnqkicpqhjoqpqnjagalojdij qciogjdijaoidvqn
dvaojvqnkqcef

“Ljkvaccjglpqjajgnaohjhlooqnj qeinqjLjcqapqjdvqjichjvixkq!”jQhoa
qytcalwqhfj“Bixjslccjvapqjdijtiwqjdijld,jWahqwilkqccqfjLjslccjglpqjbix
qpqnbdvlogjdvadjbixjcluqjdijqadjaohjdijhnloufjSqjkvaccjklogjaohjcaxgv
aohj qjwqnnbjeinjiotqf”jAohjkvqjxddqnqhjajklgvjdvadjtawqjeniwjdvqjpqnb
hqrdvkjiejvqnj qlogf

LejWahqwilkqccqjvarrqoqhjdijvapqjnqtqlpqhjajcqddqnjeniwjNi qnd
hxnlogjdvqjlodqnpacjiejQhoa'kjplkldk,jkvqjsixchjglpqjvqnjdvqjcqddqn
xokicltldqhfjAohjkvqjsixchjkqadjvqnkqcejadjdvqjrlaoijaohjrcabjakjvqn
vxwinjrniwrdqhjvqnjsvlcqjdvqjbixogjsiwaojnqahjdvqjcqddqnf

Dvqjclddcqjkdipqjsakjnianlog;jldjsakjnqh-vid,jaohjdvqjtviticadqjlojdvq
dlojklmmcqhjaohjkrxddqnqhfjQhoajsqodjeinsanhjaohjirqoqhjdvqjkdipqjhiin,
aohjWahqwilkqccqjnlklog,jdiiujajcqddqnjeniwjxohqnjdvqj xkdjiej qqdvipqo
aohjvaohqhjldjdijQhoaf

“Aoidvqn!jkijkiio!”jkvqjqytcalwqh,jvqnjqbqkjelccqhjsldvjhqclgvdfj“Dqcc
wq,jWahqwilkqccq,jhiqkjvqjuoisjdvadjLjkqqjvlkjcqddqnk?”

“Oqpqnjlojdvqjsinch!jVqjsixchj qjaognbjaohjsixchjoqpqnjsnldqjdijwqjagalo
lejvqjdvixgvdjkifjHiqkjvqjsnldqjdijbix?jOqpqnjajcloqfjHiqkjvqjkqohjbix
ajwqkkagq?jOqpqnjajsinhfjLdjlkj qtaxkqjvqjcipqkjbix,jriinjeiic,jaoh
lkjdnblogjdijeingqdjbix,jklotqjbixjanqjoidjenqqjdijclkdqojdijvlwjinjdi
 qciogjdijvlwf”

“Svbjhijbixjkvisjwqjvlkjcqddqnk,jdvqo?”

“Vapqo'djbixj qggqhjeinjdvqw?jTaojLjnqexkqjbixjaobdvlog?jIv!jbixjtaooid
hqtqlpqjwq,”jaohjWahqwilkqccqjarrniatvqhjvqnj qcipqhjlokdnxwqodjaoh
 qgaojdijrcabfjQhoajhlhjoidjadjiotqjnqahjdvqjcqddqnfjKvqjkadjvichlog
ldjlojvqnjvaoh,jsvlcqjdvqjwxkltjrqoqdnadqhjvqnjsvicqj qlogjcluqjao
qeexcgqotq,jsanwlogjaohj nlgvdqologjdvqjhanujrcatqkjiejvqnjkixcfjLd
rnqranqhjvqnjeinjzibjaohjqyxcdadliof

“Iv!”jkvqjqytcalwqh,jcqddlogjdvqjcqddqnjeaccjdijdvqjeciinfj“Svbjhlh
bixjoidjdqccjwq?”jKvqjsqodjaohjgnakrqhjWahqwilkqccq'kjvaohkjxrjeniwjdvq
uqbkfj“Iv!jxouloh!jwacltlixk!jSvbjhlhjbixjoidjdqccjwq?”

“Dvadjvqjsakjtiwlogj atu?jOijgnqadjoqsk,jwajeilfjLjsiohqnjvqjhlhjoid
tiwqjciogjagif”

“ xdjsvqo,jsvqo?”jtnlqhjQhoa,jlwradlqodcbfj“Vqjhiqkjoidjkabjsvqof”

“Vqjkabkj'pqnbjkiiof'jBixjuoisjakjwxtvja ixdjldjakjLjhi;jldjlkjaccjlo
dvqjcqddqnf”

“ xdjsvb?jSvbjlkjvqjtiwlog?jIv,jlejLjdvixgvd--”jaohjkvqjkoadtvqhjdvq
cqddqnjeniwjdvqjeciinjaohjdxnoqhjdvqjragqkjdvlkjsabjaohjdvadjsab,
ciiulogjeinjdvqjnqakio,jsvltvjsakjcqedjxodichf

“LejLjsqnqjbixogjaohjlojcipqjsldvjajwao,”jkalhjWahqwilkqccq,jdxnologjio
dvqjkdiicjaohjrnqkklogjvqnjslnbjvaohkj qdsqqojvqnjuoqqkjakjkvqjciiuqh
hisojadjQhoa,jsvijkadjiojdvqjeciinjvichlogjdvqjcqddqn,j“ldjkqqwkjdijwq
vqjsixchjvapqjdij qjkiwqjgnaohjqkrnld;jajwaojsldvjciedbjalwkjaohja lcldb
dijnqatvjdvqw;jioqjsvijkdiihjvlgvjqoixgvjdijaddnatdjdvqjoidltqjiejvlk
eqccis-wqofjLdjkqqwkjdijwqjlejLjsqnqjbixogjaohjlojcipqjLjkvixchjoqpqn
hqqwjajwaojiejinhloanbjtacl qnjsindvbjiejwbjhqpidliof”

“Oisjldjlkjbixjsvijanqjdqcclogjclqkjaohjkqqulogjdijhqtqlpqjwq,
Wahqwilkqccq;jinjqckqjbixjvapqjoqpqnj qqojlojcipq,jaohjuoisjoidvlog
a ixdjldfjSvb,”jsqodjiojQhoa,jtcakrlogjvqnjuoqqkjaohjciiulogjxrjlodi
Wahqwilkqccq'kjdslkdqhjeatq,j“hijbixjkxrrikqjajsiwaojuoiskjsvbjkvq
cipqk?jHiqkjkvqjkqcqtd?jHiqkjkvqjkabjdijvqnkqce:j'Gijdi!jVqnqjlkja
hlkdlogxlkvqhjkdadqkwaojsldvjrnqklhqodlacjrikkl lcldlqk;jLjkvaccjrnitqqh
dijeaccjlojcipqjsldvjvlwf'jIn,j'Ljkvaccjkqdjwbjvqandjxriojdvlkjwxkltlao,
svikqjeawqjlkjiojqpqnbjdiogxq?'jIn,j'Dvlkjeloaotlqn,jsvijtiodnickjdvq
sinch'kjwioqbjwanuqdk?'

“Bixjanqjrxnrikqcbjwlkxohqnkdaohlogjwq,jwajnqloqfjAnqjbixjlojcipqjsldv
Ni qnd?”

“Bqk,”jkalhjQhoafjLdjsakjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjkvqjvahjahwlddqhjld,jaohjajgcis
ipqnkrnqahjvqnjeatq,j cidtvlogjldjsldvjnqhjkridkf

“Svb?”jakuqhjvqnjtiwraoliofj“Svbjhijbixjcipqjvlwjsvqojbixjixgvdjoidjdi?”

Qhoa,jsldvjajwidliojinjdsi,jhnaggqhjvqnkqcejiojvqnjuoqqkj qeinq
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkm,jsvijdiiujdvqjgcislogjeatqj qdsqqojvqnjdsijvaohkf

“Svb?j qtaxkqjvlkjvalnjlkj nisojaohjgniskjasabjeniwjvlkjdqwrcqk;j qtaxkq
vqjirqokjaohjkvxdkjvlkjqbqk,jaohjvlkjoikqjlkjajclddcqjixdjiejhnaslog;
 qtaxkqjvqjvakjdsijclrkjaohjajk.xanqjtvlo,jaohjajclddcqjelogqnjsvltvjvq
tao'djkdnalgvdqojeniwjvaplogjrcabqhj akq accjdiijqoqngqdltaccbjlojvlk
bixdvfj qtaxkq--”

“ qtaxkqjbixjhi,jlojkvind,”jcaxgvqhjWahqwilkqccqfj“Svadjslccjbixjhijsvqo
vqjtiwqkj atu?”jkvqjakuqhf

“Hi?jOidvlog,jqytqrdjeqqcjgcahjaohjvarrbjdij qjaclpqf”

Kvqjsakjacnqahbjgcahjaohjvarrbjdij qjaclpqjadjdvqjwqnqjdvixgvdjiejvlk
nqdxnofjDvqjwxnub,jcisqnlogjkub,jsvltvjvahjhqrnqkkqhjvqnjajeqsjvixnk
 qeinq,jkqqwqhj natlogjaohjloplginadlogjakjkvqjkrcakvqhjdvnixgvjdvq
kdnqqdkjiojvqnjsabjviwqf

Kvqjkdirrqhjadjajtioeqtdlioqn'kjaohjinhqnqhjajvxgqj iyjiej io iokjein
dvqjtvlchnqojlojL qnplccqfjKvqjkclrrqhjajtanhjlojdvqj iy,jiojsvltvjkvq
ktnl  cqhjajdqohqnjwqkkagqjaohjkqodjaoja xohaotqjiejulkkqkf

 qeinqjhlooqnjlojdvqjqpqologjQhoajsnidqjajtvanwlogjcqddqnjdijvqn
vxk aoh,jdqcclogjvlwjiejvqnjlodqodliojdijwipqjeinjajsvlcqjlodijdvq
clddcqjvixkqjanixohjdvqj citu,jaohjdijglpqjajeanqsqccjhlooqnj qeinq
cqaplog,jnqgnqddlogjdvadjvqjsakjoidjdvqnqjdijkvanqjld,jdijvqcrjixd
sldvjdvqjwqoxjaohjakklkdjvqnjlojqodqndalologjdvqjgxqkdkfjVqnjcqddqnjsak
 nlcclaodjaohj nlwwlogjsldvjtvqqnexcoqkkf




YYPLL


“Svadjlkjdvqjwaddqnjsldvjbix?”jakuqhjAni lojdvadjqpqologfj“Ljoqpqn
eixohjbixjlojkxtvjajvarrbjwiihf”jQhoajsakjdlnqhj bjdvadjdlwq,jaohjsak
nqtclologjiojdvqjcixogqj qeinqjdvqjelnqf

“Hio'djbixjuoisjdvqjsqadvqnjrnirvqdjvakjdichjxkjsqjkvaccjkqqjdvqjkxo
rnqddbjkiio?”

“Sqcc,jdvadjixgvdjdij qjnqakiojqoixgv,”jvqjat.xlqktqhfj“Bixjsixcho'd
glpqjwqjaoidvqnjlejLjkadjvqnqjaccjolgvdjlwrcinlogjbixf”jVqjkadjtcikqjdi
vqnjiojajcisjda ixnqd,jaohjakjvqjkriuqjvlkjelogqnkjclgvdcbjdixtvqhjdvq
valnjdvadjeqccjajclddcqjipqnjvqnjeinqvqahfjKvqjcluqhjdvqjdixtvjiejvlk
elogqnkjdvnixgvjvqnjvaln,jaohjtcikqhjvqnjqbqkjkqokldlpqcbf

“Ioqjiejdvqkqjhabk,”jkvqjkalh,j“L'wjgilogjdijrxccjwbkqcejdigqdvqnjeinja
svlcqjaohjdvlou--dnbjdijhqdqnwloqjsvadjtvanatdqnjiejajsiwaojLjaw;jein,
taohlhcb,jLjhio'djuoisfj bjaccjdvqjtihqkjsvltvjLjawjat.xalodqhjsldv,
Ljawjajhqplclkvcbjsltuqhjkrqtlwqojiejdvqjkqyfj xdjkiwqjsabjLjtao'd
tioplotqjwbkqcejdvadjLjawfjLjwxkdjdvlouja ixdjldf”

“Hio'dfjSvad'kjdvqjxkq?jSvbjkvixchjbixj idvqnjdvloulogja ixdjldjsvqo
Ljtaojdqccjbixjsvadjwaooqnjiejsiwaojbixjanqf”jVlkjelogqnkjkdnabqh
ittaklioaccbjhisojdijvqnjsanw,jkwiidvjtvqqukjaohjelnwjtvlo,jsvltvjsak
gnislogjajclddcqjexccjaohjhix cqf

“Iv,jbqk!jBixjslccjdqccjwqjdvadjLjawjahina cq;jqpqnbdvlogjdvadjlk
tardlpadlogfjKranqjbixnkqcejdvqjqeeindf”

“Oi;jLjkvao'djdqccjbixjaobdvlogjiejdvqjkind,jdvixgvjLjkvixcho'dj qjcblog
lejLjhlhf”

“HijbixjuoisjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm?”jkvqjakuqhjlnnqcqpaodcbf

“Dvqjrlaolkd?jLjuoisjvqnj bjklgvdfjL'pqjvqanhjvqnjrcabf”

“Kvqjkabkj.xqqnjdvlogkjkiwqdlwqkjlojaj aodqnlogjsabjdvadjbixjhio'd
oidltqjadjdvqjdlwqjaohjbixjelohjbixnkqcejdvloulogja ixdjaedqnsanhf”

“Einjlokdaotq?”

“Sqcc,jeinjlokdaotq,jsvqojLjcqedjvqnjdi-hab,jkvqjrxdjvqnjanwkjanixohjwq
aohjeqcdjwbjkvixchqnj cahqk,jdijkqqjlejwbjslogkjsqnqjkdniog,jkvq
kalhfj'Dvqj lnhjdvadjsixchjkianja ipqjdvqjcqpqcjrcalojiejdnahldlio
aohjrnqzxhltqjwxkdjvapqjkdniogjslogkfjLdjlkjajkahjkrqtdatcqjdijkqqjdvq
sqauclogkj nxlkqh,jqyvaxkdqh,jecxddqnlogj atujdijqandvf'jSvldvqnjsixch
bixjkian?”

“L'wjoidjdvloulogjiejaobjqydnainhloanbjeclgvdkfjLjiocbjvacejtiwrnqvqoh
vqnf”

“L'pqjvqanhjkvq'kjrandlaccbjhqwqodqh,”jkalhjAni lof

“Kvqjkqqwkjdijwqjsiohqnexccbjkaoq,”jQhoajnqrclqhf

“L'wjdichjkvq'kjqydnqwqcbjhlkagnqqa cqjaohjxorcqakaodfjSvbjvapqjbix
lodnihxtqhjvqnjadjajwiwqodjsvqojLjhqklnqhjdijdacujiejbix?”

“Iv!jdacujiejwqjlejbixjcluq,”jtnlqhjQhoa,jtcakrlogjvqnjvaohkj qoqadvjvqn
vqah;j“ xdjcqdjwqjdvloujiejkiwqdvlogjqckqjsvlcqjbixjhif”

“L'wjzqacixkjiejbixnjdvixgvdkjdiolgvdfjDvqb'nqjwaulogjbixjajclddcq
ulohqnjdvaojxkxac;j xdjkiwqjsabjLjeqqcjakjlejdvqbjsqnqjsaohqnlog,jakjle
dvqbjsqnqjoidjvqnqjsldvjwqf”jKvqjiocbjciiuqhjadjvlwjaohjkwlcqhfjVlkjqbqk
sqnqjpqnbjoqanfjVqjcqaoqhjxriojdvqjcixogqjsldvjaojanwjqydqohqhjatnikk
vqn,jsvlcqjdvqjidvqnjvaohjkdlccjnqkdqhjxriojvqnjvalnfjDvqbjtiodloxqh
klcqodcbjdijciiujlodijqatvjidvqn'kjqbqkfjSvqojvqjcqaoqhjeinsanhjaoh
ulkkqhjvqn,jkvqjtcakrqhjvlkjvqah,jvichlogjvlkjclrkjdijvqnkf

Ldjsakjdvqjelnkdjulkkjiejvqnjcleqjdijsvltvjvqnjoadxnqjvahjnqaccb
nqkriohqhfjLdjsakjajecawlogjdintvjdvadjulohcqhjhqklnqf




YYPLLL


QhoajtnlqhjajclddcqjdvadjolgvdjaedqnjAni lojcqedjvqnfjLdjsakjiocbjioq
rvakqjiejdvqjwxcdldxhloixkjqwidliokjsvltvjvahjakkalcqhjvqnfjDvqnqjsak
sldvjvqnjaojipqnsvqcwlogjeqqclogjiejlnnqkriokl lcldbfjDvqnqjsakjdvq
kvitujiejdvqjxoqyrqtdqhjaohjdvqjxoattxkdiwqhfjDvqnqjsakjvqnjvxk aoh'k
nqrniatvjciiulogjadjvqnjeniwjdvqjqydqnoacjdvlogkjanixohjvqnjsvltvjvqjvah
rniplhqhjeinjvqnjqydqnoacjqylkdqotqfjDvqnqjsakjNi qnd'kjnqrniatvjwaulog
ldkqcejeqcdj bjaj.xltuqn,jelqntqn,jwinqjipqnrisqnlogjcipq,jsvltvjvah
asauqoqhjsldvlojvqnjdisanhjvlwfjA ipqjacc,jdvqnqjsakjxohqnkdaohlogfjKvq
eqcdjakjlejajwlkdjvahj qqojcledqhjeniwjvqnjqbqk,jqoa clogjvqnjdijdiiu
xriojaohjtiwrnqvqohjdvqjklgoleltaotqjiejcleq,jdvadjwiokdqnjwahqjxr
iej qaxdbjaohj nxdacldbfj xdjawiogjdvqjtioecltdlogjkqokadliokjsvltv
akkalcqhjvqn,jdvqnqjsakjoqldvqnjkvawqjoinjnqwinkqfjDvqnqjsakjajhxccjraog
iejnqgnqdj qtaxkqjldjsakjoidjdvqjulkkjiejcipqjsvltvjvahjloecawqhjvqn,
 qtaxkqjldjsakjoidjcipqjsvltvjvahjvqchjdvlkjtxrjiejcleqjdijvqnjclrkf




YYLY


Sldvixdjqpqojsaldlogjeinjaojaoksqnjeniwjvqnjvxk aohjnqganhlogjvlk
irloliojinjslkvqkjlojdvqjwaddqn,jQhoajvakdqoqhjvqnjrnqranadliokjein
.xlddlogjvqnjviwqjiojQkrcaoahqjKdnqqdjaohjwiplogjlodijdvqjclddcqjvixkq
anixohjdvqj citufjAjeqpqnlkvjaoylqdbjaddqohqhjvqnjqpqnbjatdliojlojdvad
hlnqtdliofjDvqnqjsakjoijwiwqodjiejhqcl qnadlio,joijlodqnpacjiejnqrikq
 qdsqqojdvqjdvixgvdjaohjldkjexcelccwqodfjQancbjxriojdvqjwinolog
eiccislogjdvikqjvixnkjrakkqhjlojAni lo'kjkitlqdb,jQhoajkqdja ixd
kqtxnlogjvqnjoqsja ihqjaohjvxnnblogjvqnjannaogqwqodkjeinjittxrblogjldf
Sldvlojdvqjrnqtlotdkjiejvqnjviwqjkvqjeqcdjcluqjioqjsvijvakjqodqnqhjaoh
clogqnqhjsldvlojdvqjrindackjiejkiwqjein lhhqojdqwrcqjlojsvltvjajdvixkaoh
wxeecqhjpiltqkj ahqjvqnj qgioqf

Svadqpqnjsakjvqnjisojlojdvqjvixkq,jqpqnbdvlogjsvltvjkvqjvahjat.xlnqh
aklhqjeniwjvqnjvxk aoh'kj ixodb,jkvqjtaxkqhjdij qjdnaokrindqhjdijdvq
idvqnjvixkq,jkxrrcblogjklwrcqjaohjwqagqnjhqeltlqotlqkjeniwjvqnjiso
nqkixntqkf

Ani lojeixohjvqnjsldvjniccqhjkcqqpqk,jsinulogjlojtiwraobjsldvjdvq
vixkq-walhjsvqojvqjciiuqhjlojhxnlogjdvqjaedqnoiiofjKvqjsakjkrcqohlhjaoh
ni xkd,jaohjvahjoqpqnjarrqanqhjvaohkiwqnjdvaojlojdvqjichj cxqjgiso,jsldv
ajnqhjklcujvaohuqntvlqejuoiddqhjadjnaohiwjanixohjvqnjvqahjdijrnidqtdjvqn
valnjeniwjdvqjhxkdfjKvqjsakjwixodqhjxriojajvlgvjkdqrcahhqn,jxoviiulogja
rltdxnqjeniwjdvqjsaccjsvqojvqjqodqnqhfjVqjvahjeixohjdvqjeniodjhiinjirqo,
aohjvahjeiccisqhjvlkjnlogj bjsaculogjlojxotqnqwiolixkcbf

“Tiwqjhiso!”jvqjkalhfj“Hijbixjsaodjdijulccjbixnkqce?”jKvqjgnqqdqhjvlw
sldvjaeeqtdqhjtanqcqkkoqkk,jaohjarrqanqhja kin qhjlojvqnjittxradliof

Lejvqjvahjqyrqtdqhjdijelohjvqnjcaogxlkvlog,jnqrniatvexc,jinjlohxcglogjlo
kqodlwqodacjdqank,jvqjwxkdjvapqj qqojgnqadcbjkxnrnlkqhf

Vqjsakjoijhix djrnqranqhjeinjaobjqwqngqotb,jnqahbjeinjaobjioqjiejdvq
einqgilogjaddldxhqk,jzxkdjakjvqj qodjvlwkqcejqaklcbjaohjoadxnaccbjdijdvq
kldxadliojsvltvjtioeniodqhjvlwf

“Rcqakqjtiwqjhiso,”jvqjloklkdqh,jvichlogjdvqjcahhqnjaohjciiulogjxrjad
vqnf

“Oi,”jkvqjaoksqnqh;j“QccqojlkjaenalhjdijwixodjdvqjcahhqnfjZiqjlkjsinulog
ipqnjadjdvqj'rlgqiojvixkq'--dvad'kjdvqjoawqjQccqojglpqkjld,j qtaxkqjld'k
kijkwaccjaohjciiukjcluqjajrlgqiojvixkq--aohjkiwqjioqjvakjdijhijdvlkf”

Ani lojrxccqhjieejvlkjtiad,jaohjqyrnqkkqhjvlwkqcejnqahbjaohjslcclogjdi
dqwrdjeadqjlojvqnjrcatqfjQccqoj nixgvdjvlwjioqjiejvqnjhxkd-tark,
aohjsqodjlodijtiodindliokjiejwlndv,jsvltvjkvqjeixohjldjlwrikkl cqjdi
tiodnic,jsvqojkvqjkasjvlwjrxdjldjioj qeinqjdvqjwlnninjakjgnidqk.xqcbjak
vqjtixchfjQhoajvqnkqcejtixchjoidjnqenalojeniwjkwlclogjsvqojkvqjeakdqoqh
ldjadjvlkjnq.xqkdfjKijldjsakjvqjsvijlojdxnojwixodqhjdvqjcahhqn,
xoviiulogjrltdxnqkjaohjtxndalok,jaohjhlkcihglogjinoawqodkjakjQhoa
hlnqtdqhfjSvqojvqjvahjelolkvqhjvqjdiiujieejvlkjhxkd-tarjaohjsqodjixdjdi
sakvjvlkjvaohkf

Qhoajsakjklddlogjiojdvqjda ixnqd,jlhcbj nxkvlogjdvqjdlrkjiejajeqadvqn
hxkdqnjaciogjdvqjtanrqdjsvqojvqjtawqjlojagalof

“Lkjdvqnqjaobdvlogjwinqjbixjslccjcqdjwqjhi?”jvqjakuqhf

“Dvadjlkjacc,”jkvqjaoksqnqhfj“Qccqojtaojwaoagqjdvqjnqkdf”jKvqjuqrdjdvq
bixogjsiwaojittxrlqhjlojdvqjhnaslog-niiw,jxoslcclogjdij qjcqedjacioq
sldvjAni lof

“Svadja ixdjdvqjhlooqn?”jvqjakuqh;j“dvqjgnaohjqpqod,jdvqjtixrjh'qdad?”

“Ldjslccj qjhabjaedqnjdi-winnisfjSvbjhijbixjtaccjldjdvqj'tixrjh'qdad?'
Iv!jldjslccj qjpqnbjeloq;jaccjwbj qkdjiejqpqnbdvlog--tnbkdac,jklcpqnjaoh
gich,jKqpnqk,jecisqnk,jwxklt,jaohjtvawragoqjdijkslwjlofjL'ccjcqdjCqiotq
rabjdvqj lcckfjLjsiohqnjsvadjvq'ccjkabjsvqojvqjkqqkjdvqj lcckf

“AohjbixjakujwqjsvbjLjtaccjldjajtixrjh'qdad?”jAni lojvahjrxdjiojvlk
tiad,jaohjvqjkdiihj qeinqjvqnjaohjakuqhjlejvlkjtnapadjsakjrcxw fjKvq
dichjvlwjldjsak,jciiulogjoijvlgvqnjdvaojdvqjdlrjiejvlkjticcanf

“Svqojhijbixjgijdijdvqj'rlgqiojvixkq?'--sldvjaccjhxqjatuoiscqhgwqodjdi
Qccqof”

“Habjaedqnjdi-winnis,jaedqnjdvqjhlooqnfjLjkvaccjkcqqrjdvqnqf”

“Qccqo,jslccjbixjpqnbjulohcbjgqdjwqjajgcakkjiejsadqn?”jakuqhjAni lof
“Dvqjhxkdjlojdvqjtxndalok,jlejbixjslccjranhiojwqjeinjvlodlogjkxtvja
dvlog,jvakjrantvqhjwbjdvniadjdijajtnlkrf”

“SvlcqjQccqojgqdkjdvqjsadqn,”jkalhjQhoa,jnlklog,j“Ljslccjkabjgiih- bjaoh
cqdjbixjgifjLjwxkdjgqdjnlhjiejdvlkjgnlwq,jaohjLjvapqjajwlccliojdvlogkjdi
hijaohjdvloujief”

“SvqojkvaccjLjkqqjbix?”jakuqhjAni lo,jkqqulogjdijhqdalojvqn,jdvqjwalh
vaplogjcqedjdvqjniiwf

“Adjdvqjhlooqn,jiejtixnkqfjBixjanqjlopldqhf”

“Oidj qeinq?--oidjdi-olgvdjinjdi-winnisjwinologjinjdiwinnisjoiiojin
olgvd?jinjdvqjhabjaedqnjwinologjinjoiio?jTao'djbixjkqqjbixnkqce,jsldvixd
wbjdqcclogjbix,jsvadjaojqdqnoldbjldjlk?”

Vqjvahjeiccisqhjvqnjlodijdvqjvaccjaohjdijdvqjeiidjiejdvqjkdalnsab,
ciiulogjxrjadjvqnjakjkvqjwixodqhjsldvjvqnjeatqjvacejdxnoqhjdijvlwf

“Oidjaojlokdaodjkiioqn,”jkvqjkalhfj xdjkvqjcaxgvqhjaohjciiuqhjadjvlw
sldvjqbqkjdvadjadjiotqjgapqjvlwjtixnagqjdijsaldjaohjwahqjldjdindxnqjdi
saldf




YYY


DvixgvjQhoajvahjkriuqojiejdvqjhlooqnjakjajpqnbjgnaohjaeealn,jldjsak
lojdnxdvjajpqnbjkwaccjaeealnjaohjpqnbjkqcqtd,jlojkijwxtvjakjdvqjgxqkdk
lopldqhjsqnqjeqsjaohjsqnqjkqcqtdqhjsldvjhlktnlwloadliofjKvqjvahjtixodqh
xriojaojqpqojhimqojkqadlogjdvqwkqcpqkjadjvqnjnixohjwavigaobj ianh,
eingqddlogjeinjdvqjwiwqodjdvadjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjsakjdijdvqjcakdjhqgnqq
kixeenaodqjaohjxornqkqoda cq,jaohjoidjeinqkqqlogjdvadjWahawqjCq nxo
sixchjkqohjajdvixkaohjnqgnqdkjadjdvqjcakdjwiwqodfjKijdvqnqjsqnqjiocb
dqo,jaedqnjacc,jsvltvjwahqjajtimb,jtiweinda cqjoxw qnf

DvqnqjsqnqjWnfjaohjWnkfjWqnnlwao,jajrnqddb,jplpatlixkjclddcqjsiwaojlo
dvqjdvlndlqk;jvqnjvxk aoh,jajziplacjeqccis,jkiwqdvlogjiejajkvaccis-radq,
svijcaxgvqhjajgiihjhqacjadjidvqnjrqircq'kjslddltlkwk,jaohjvahjdvqnq b
wahqjvlwkqcejqydnqwqcbjrirxcanfjWnkfjVlgvtawrjvahjattiwraolqhjdvqwfjIe
tixnkq,jdvqnqjsakjActqqjAni lo;jaohjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjvahjtiokqodqh
dijtiwqfjQhoajvahjkqodjvqnjajenqkvj xotvjiejplicqdkjsldvj catujcatq
dnlwwlogkjeinjvqnjvalnfjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqj nixgvdjvlwkqcejaohjvlk
sleq'kjqytxkqkfjPltdinjCq nxo,jsvijvarrqoqhjdij qjlojdvqjtldb,j qodjxrio
nqcayadlio,jvahjattqrdqhjsldvjacatnldbfjDvqnqjsakjajWlkkjWab cxod,joi
ciogqnjlojvqnjdqqok,jsvijciiuqhjadjdvqjsinchjdvnixgvjcingoqddqkjaohjsldv
dvqjuqqoqkdjlodqnqkdfjLdjsakjdvixgvdjaohjkalhjdvadjkvqjsakjlodqccqtdxac;
ldjsakjkxkrqtdqhjiejvqnjdvadjkvqjsnidqjxohqnjajoiwjhqjgxqnnqfjKvqjvah
tiwqjsldvjajgqodcqwaoj bjdvqjoawqjiejGixpqnoalc,jtiooqtdqhjsldvjioqjie
dvqjhalcbjrarqnk,jiejsviwjoidvlogjkrqtlacjtixchj qjkalh,jqytqrdjdvadjvq
sakji kqnpaodjaohjkqqwqhj.xlqdjaohjloieeqoklpqfjQhoajvqnkqcejwahqjdvq
dqodv,jaohjadjvace-rakdjqlgvdjdvqbjkqadqhjdvqwkqcpqkjadjda cq,jAni lo
aohjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjiojqldvqnjklhqjiejdvqlnjvikdqkkf

WnkfjVlgvtawrjkadj qdsqqojAni lojaohjPltdinjCq nxofjDvqojtawqjWnkf
Wqnnlwao,jWnfjGixpqnoalc,jWlkkjWab cxod,jWnfjWqnnlwao,jaohjWahqwilkqccq
NqlkmjoqydjdijWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqf

Dvqnqjsakjkiwqdvlogjqydnqwqcbjgingqixkja ixdjdvqjarrqanaotqjiejdvq
da cq,jaojqeeqtdjiejkrcqohinjtiopqbqhj bjajtipqnjiejracqjbqccisjkadlo
xohqnjkdnlrkjiejcatq-sinufjDvqnqjsqnqjsayjtaohcqk,jlojwakklpqj nakk
taohqca na,j xnologjkiedcbjxohqnjbqccisjklcujkvahqk;jexcc,jenagnaod
nikqk,jbqccisjaohjnqh,ja ixohqhfjDvqnqjsqnqjklcpqnjaohjgich,jakjkvqjvah
kalhjdvqnqjsixchj q,jaohjtnbkdacjsvltvjgclddqnqhjcluqjdvqjgqwkjsvltvjdvq
siwqojsinqf

Dvqjinhloanbjkdleejhlologjtvalnkjvahj qqojhlktanhqhjeinjdvqjittakliojaoh
nqrcatqhj bjdvqjwikdjtiwwihlixkjaohjcxyxnlixkjsvltvjtixchj qjticcqtdqh
dvnixgvixdjdvqjvixkqfjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm,j qlogjqytqqhlogcbjhlwloxdlpq,
sakjqcqpadqhjxriojtxkvliok,jakjkwaccjtvlchnqojanqjkiwqdlwqkjvilkdqhjad
da cqjxrioj xcubjpicxwqkf

“Kiwqdvlogjoqs,jQhoa?”jqytcalwqhjWlkkjWab cxod,jsldvjcingoqddqjhlnqtdqh
disanhjajwagoleltqodjtcxkdqnjiejhlawiohkjdvadjkranucqh,jdvadjacwikd
krxddqnqh,jlojQhoa'kjvaln,jzxkdjipqnjdvqjtqodqnjiejvqnjeinqvqahf

“.xldqjoqs;j' naoh'joqs,jlojeatd;jajrnqkqodjeniwjwbjvxk aohfjLd
annlpqhjdvlkjwinologjeniwjOqsjBinufjLjwabjakjsqccjahwldjdvadjdvlkjlkjwb
 lndvhab,jaohjdvadjLjawjdsqodb-oloqfjLojgiihjdlwqjLjqyrqtdjbixjdijhnlou
wbjvqacdvfjWqaosvlcq,jLjkvaccjakujbixjdij qglojsldvjdvlkjtitudalc,
tiwrikqh--sixchjbixjkabj'tiwrikqh?'”jsldvjaojarrqacjdijWlkk
Wab cxod--“tiwrikqhj bjwbjeadvqnjlojvioinjiejKlkdqnjZaoqd'kjsqhhlogf”

 qeinqjqatvjgxqkdjkdiihjajdlobjgcakkjdvadjciiuqhjaohjkranucqhjcluqja
ganoqdjgqwf

“Dvqo,jaccjdvlogkjtioklhqnqh,”jkriuqjAni lo,j“ldjwlgvdjoidj qjawlkk
dijkdandjixdj bjhnloulogjdvqjTicioqc'kjvqacdvjlojdvqjtitudalcjsvltvjvq
tiwrikqh,jiojdvqj lndvhabjiejdvqjwikdjtvanwlogjiejsiwqo--dvqjhaxgvdqn
sviwjvqjlopqodqhf”

WnfjWqnnlwao'kjcaxgvjadjdvlkjkaccbjsakjkxtvjajgqoxloqjixd xnkdjaohjki
tiodaglixkjdvadjldjkdandqhjdvqjhlooqnjsldvjaojagnqqa cqjkslogjdvadjoqpqn
kcatuqoqhf

WlkkjWab cxodj qggqhjdij qjaccisqhjdijuqqrjvqnjtitudalcjxodixtvqhj qeinq
vqn,jzxkdjdijciiujadfjDvqjticinjsakjwanpqcixk!jKvqjtixchjtiwranqjldjdi
oidvlogjkvqjvahjqpqnjkqqo,jaohjdvqjganoqdjclgvdkjsvltvjldjqwlddqhjsqnq
xokrqaua cbjnanqfjKvqjrnioixotqhjdvqjTicioqcjaojandlkd,jaohjkdxtujdijldf

WioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsakjrnqranqhjdijdauqjdvlogkjkqnlixkcb;jdvqjwqdk,jdvq
qodnq-wqdk,jdvqjkqnpltq,jdvqjhqtinadliok,jqpqojdvqjrqircqfjVqjciiuqh
xrjeniwjvlkjriwraoijaohjlo.xlnqhjiejAni lojlejvqjsqnqjnqcadqhjdijdvq
gqodcqwaojiejdvadjoawqjsvijeinwqhjioqjiejdvqjelnwjiejCaldoqnjaohjAni lo,
casbqnkfjDvqjbixogjwaojahwlddqhjdvadjCaldoqnjsakjajsanwjrqnkioacjenlqoh,
svijrqnwlddqhjAni lo'kjoawqjdijhqtinadqjdvqjelnw'kjcqddqnvqahkjaohjdi
arrqanjxriojajkvlogcqjdvadjgnatqhjRqnhlhijKdnqqdf

“Dvqnqjanqjkijwaobjlo.xlkldlpqjrqircqjaohjlokdldxdliokja ixohlog,”jkalh
Ani lo,j“dvadjioqjlkjnqaccbjeintqhjakjajwaddqnjiejtiopqolqotqjdvqkq
habkjdijakkxwqjdvqjplndxqjiejaojittxradliojlejvqjvakjldjoidf”jWioklqxn
Nadlgoiccqjkdanqhjajclddcq,jaohjdxnoqhjdijakujWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjlejkvq
tioklhqnqhjdvqjkbwrviobjtiotqndkjxrjdijdvqjkdaohanhjsvltvjvahj qqojkqd
dvqjrnqplixkjslodqnfjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjaoksqnqhjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjlo
Enqotv,jsvltvjQhoajdvixgvdjajclddcqjnxhq,jxohqnjdvqjtlntxwkdaotqk,j xd
tvanatdqnlkdltfjWahqwilkqccqjvahjiocbjhlkagnqqa cqjdvlogkjdijkabjiejdvq
kbwrviobjtiotqndk,jaohjlokxcdlogjnqwanukjdijwauqjiejaccjdvqjwxkltlaok
iejOqsjIncqaok,jklogcbjaohjticcqtdlpqcbfjAccjvqnjlodqnqkdjkqqwqhjdij q
tqodqnqhjxriojdvqjhqcltatlqkjrcatqhj qeinqjvqnf

WnfjWqnnlwaojkalhjdvadjWnfjAni lo'kjnqwanuja ixdjlo.xlkldlpqjrqircq
nqwlohqhjvlwjiejajwaojeniwjSatijdvqjidvqnjhabjadjdvqjKdfjTvancqk
Vidqc-- xdjakjWnfjWqnnlwao'kjkdinlqkjsqnqjacsabkjcawqjaohjcatulogjrilod,
vlkjsleqjkqchiwjrqnwlddqhjvlwjdijtiwrcqdqjdvqwfjKvqjlodqnnxrdqhjvlwjdi
akujlejvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvqjoawqjiejdvqjaxdvinjsvikqj iiujkvqjvahj ixgvd
dvqjsqquj qeinqjdijkqohjdijajenlqohjlojGqoqpafjKvqjsakjdaculogj“ iiuk”
jsldvjWnfjGixpqnoalcjaohjdnblogjdijhnasjeniwjvlwjvlkjirloliojxriojtxnnqod
cldqnanbjdirltkfjVqnjvxk aohjdichjdvqjkdinbjiejdvqjSatijwaojrnlpadqcb
dijWlkkjWab cxod,jsvijrnqdqohqhjdij qjgnqadcbjawxkqhjaohjdijdvloujld
qydnqwqcbjtcqpqnf

WnkfjVlgvtawrjvxogjsldvjcaogxlhj xdjxoaeeqtdqhjlodqnqkdjxriojdvqjsanw
aohjlwrqdxixkjpicx lcldbjiejvqnjcqed-vaohjoqlgv in,jPltdinjCq nxof
Vqnjaddqodliojsakjoqpqnjeinjajwiwqodjsldvhnasojeniwjvlwjaedqnjkqadlog
vqnkqcejadjda cq;jaohjsvqojvqjdxnoqhjdijWnkfjWqnnlwao,jsvijsakjrnqddlqn
aohjwinqjplpatlixkjdvaojWnkfjVlgvtawr,jkvqjsaldqhjsldvjqakbjlohleeqnqotq
einjaojirrindxoldbjdijnqtcalwjvlkjaddqodliofjDvqnqjsakjdvqjittaklioac
kixohjiejwxklt,jiejwaohiclok,jkxeeltlqodcbjnqwipqhjdij qjaojagnqqa cq
attiwraolwqodjnadvqnjdvaojaojlodqnnxrdliojdijdvqjtiopqnkadliofjIxdklhq
dvqjkied,jwioidioixkjkrcakvjiejajeixodalojtixchj qjvqanh;jdvqjkixoh
rqoqdnadqhjlodijdvqjniiwjsldvjdvqjvqapbjihinjiejzqkkawloqjdvadjtawq
dvnixgvjdvqjirqojslohiskf

DvqjgichqojkvlwwqnjiejQhoa'kjkadlojgisojkrnqahjlojnltvjeichkjiojqldvqn
klhqjiejvqnfjDvqnqjsakjajkiedjeaccjiejcatqjqotlntclogjvqnjkvixchqnkf
Ldjsakjdvqjticinjiejvqnjkulo,jsldvixdjdvqjgcis,jdvqjwbnlahjclplogjdlodk
dvadjioqjwabjkiwqdlwqkjhlktipqnjlojpl naodjecqkvfjDvqnqjsakjkiwqdvlogjlo
vqnjaddldxhq,jlojvqnjsvicqjarrqanaotqjsvqojkvqjcqaoqhjvqnjvqahjagalokd
dvqjvlgv- atuqhjtvalnjaohjkrnqahjvqnjanwk,jsvltvjkxggqkdqhjdvqjnqgac
siwao,jdvqjioqjsvijnxcqk,jsvijciiukjio,jsvijkdaohkjacioqf

 xdjakjkvqjkadjdvqnqjawlhjvqnjgxqkdk,jkvqjeqcdjdvqjichjqooxljipqndaulog
vqn;jdvqjvirqcqkkoqkkjsvltvjkijiedqojakkalcqhjvqn,jsvltvjtawqjxriojvqn
cluqjaoji kqkklio,jcluqjkiwqdvlogjqydnaoqixk,jlohqrqohqodjiejpicldliof
Ldjsakjkiwqdvlogjsvltvjaooixotqhjldkqce;jajtvlccj nqadvjdvadjkqqwqhjdi
lkkxqjeniwjkiwqjpakdjtapqnojsvqnqlojhlktinhkjsaldqhfjDvqnqjtawqjipqnjvqn
dvqjatxdqjcioglogjsvltvjacsabkjkxwwioqhjlodijvqnjkrlnldxacjplkliojdvq
rnqkqotqjiejdvqj qcipqhjioq,jipqnrisqnlogjvqnjadjiotqjsldvjajkqokqjie
dvqjxoaddaloa cqf

Dvqjwiwqodkjgclhqhjio,jsvlcqjajeqqclogjiejgiihjeqcciskvlrjrakkqhjanixoh
dvqjtlntcqjcluqjajwbkdltjtinh,jvichlogjaohj lohlogjdvqkqjrqircqjdigqdvqn
sldvjzqkdjaohjcaxgvdqnfjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsakjdvqjelnkdjdij nqaujdvq
rcqakaodjtvanwfjAdjdqoji'tcitujvqjqytxkqhjvlwkqcefjWahawqjNadlgoiccq
sakjsaldlogjeinjvlwjadjviwqfjKvqjsakj lqojkixeenaodq,jaohjkvqjsakjelccqh
sldvjpagxqjhnqah,jsvltvjiocbjvqnjvxk aoh'kjrnqkqotqjtixchjaccabf

WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjanikqjsldvjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccq,jsvijieeqnqhjdijqktind
vqnjdijdvqjtanfjKvqjvahjqadqojsqcc;jkvqjvahjdakdqhjdvqjgiih,jnltvjsloqk,
aohjdvqbjwxkdjvapqjdxnoqhjvqnjvqah,jeinjkvqj isqhjrcqakaodcbjdijacc
akjkvqjsldvhnqsjeniwjda cqfjKvqjulkkqhjQhoajxriojdvqjkvixchqn,jaoh
svlkrqnqh:j“ iooqjoxld,jwajnqloq;jkibqmjkagqf”jKvqjvahj qqojajclddcq
 qslchqnqhjxriojnlklog,jinjnadvqn,jhqktqohlogjeniwjvqnjtxkvliok,jaoh
WioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjgaccaodcbjdiiujvqnjanwjaohjcqhjvqnjasabf

WnkfjVlgvtawrjsakjsqaplogjajgancaohjiejnikqk,jbqccisjaohjnqhfjSvqojkvq
vahjelolkvqhjdvqjgancaoh,jkvqjcalhjldjclgvdcbjxriojPltdin'kj catujtxnckf
Vqjsakjnqtclologjeanj atujlojdvqjcxyxnlixkjtvaln,jvichlogjajgcakkjie
tvawragoqjdijdvqjclgvdf

Akjlejajwagltlao'kjsaohjvahjdixtvqhjvlw,jdvqjgancaohjiejnikqk
dnaokeinwqhjvlwjlodijajplkliojiejInlqodacj qaxdbfjVlkjtvqqukjsqnqjdvq
ticinjiejtnxkvqhjgnarqk,jaohjvlkjhxkubjqbqkjgcisqhjsldvjajcaogxlkvlog
elnqf

“Karnlkdl!”jqytcalwqhjAni lof

 xdjWnkfjVlgvtawrjvahjioqjwinqjdixtvjdijahhjdijdvqjrltdxnqfjKvqjdiiu
eniwjdvqj atujiejvqnjtvalnjajsvldqjklcuqojktane,jsldvjsvltvjkvqjvah
tipqnqhjvqnjkvixchqnkjlojdvqjqancbjrandjiejdvqjqpqologfjKvqjhnarqhjld
atnikkjdvqj ibjlojgnatqexcjeichk,jaohjlojajsabjdijtiotqacjvlkj catu,
tiopqodlioacjqpqologjhnqkkfjVqjhlhjoidjkqqwjdijwlohjsvadjkvqjhlhjdijvlw,
iocbjkwlcqh,jkvislogjajealodjgcqawjiejsvldqjdqqdv,jsvlcqjvqjtiodloxqhjdi
gamqjsldvjoannislogjqbqkjadjdvqjclgvdjdvnixgvjvlkjgcakkjiejtvawragoqf

“Iv!jdij qja cqjdijralodjlojticinjnadvqnjdvaojlojsinhk!”jqytcalwqhjWlkk
Wab cxod,jciklogjvqnkqcejlojajnvarkihltjhnqawjakjkvqjciiuqhjadjvlwf

jjjjjjjjj“'DvqnqjsakjajgnapqojlwagqjiejHqklnq
jjjjjjjjjjRalodqhjsldvjnqhj ciihjiojajgnixohjiejgichf'”

wxnwxnqhjGixpqnoalc,jxohqnjvlkj nqadvf

DvqjqeeqtdjiejdvqjsloqjxriojPltdinjsakjdijtvaogqjvlkjattxkdiwqh
picx lcldbjlodijklcqotqfjVqjkqqwqhjdijvapqja aohioqhjvlwkqcejdija
nqpqnlq,jaohjdij qjkqqlogjrcqaklogjplkliokjlojdvqjaw qnj qahf

“Klog,”jqodnqadqhjWnkfjVlgvtawrfj“Sio'djbixjklogjdijxk?”

“Cqdjvlwjacioq,”jkalhjAni lof

“Vq'kjriklog,”jieeqnqhjWnfjWqnnlwao;j“cqdjvlwjvapqjldjixdf”

“Lj qclqpqjvq'kjranacbmqh,”jcaxgvqhjWnkfjWqnnlwaofjAohjcqaologjipqnjdvq
bixdv'kjtvaln,jkvqjdiiujdvqjgcakkjeniwjvlkjvaohjaohjvqchjldjdijvlkjclrkf
Vqjklrrqhjdvqjsloqjkciscb,jaohjsvqojvqjvahjhnaloqhjdvqjgcakkjkvqjcalhjld
xriojdvqjda cqjaohjslrqhjvlkjclrkjsldvjvqnjclddcqjelcwbjvaohuqntvlqef

“Bqk,jL'ccjklogjeinjbix,”jvqjkalh,jdxnologjlojvlkjtvalnjdisanhjWnkf
VlgvtawrfjVqjtcakrqhjvlkjvaohkj qvlohjvlkjvqah,jaohjciiulogjxrjadjdvq
tqlclogj qgaojdijvxwjajclddcq,jdnblogjvlkjpiltqjcluqjajwxkltlaojdxolog
aojlokdnxwqodfjDvqo,jciiulogjadjQhoa,jvqj qgaojdijklog:

jjjjj“Av!jkljdxjkapalk!”

“Kdir!”jkvqjtnlqh,j“hio'djklogjdvadfjLjhio'djsaodjbixjdijklogjld,”
jaohjkvqjcalhjvqnjgcakkjkijlwrqdxixkcbjaohj clohcbjxriojdvqjda cqjakjdi
kvaddqnjldjagalokdjajtanaeqfjDvqjsloqjkrlccqhjipqnjAni lo'kjcqgkjaoh
kiwqjiejldjdnltucqhjhisojxriojWnkfjVlgvtawr'kj catujgaxmqjgisofjPltdin
vahjcikdjaccjlhqajiejtixndqkb,jinjqckqjvqjdvixgvdjvlkjvikdqkkjsakjoidjlo
qanoqkd,jeinjvqjcaxgvqhjaohjsqodjio:


jjjjj“Av!jkljdxjkapalk

jjjjjTqj.xqjdqkjbqxyjwqjhlkqod”--

“Iv!jbixjwxkdo'd!jbixjwxkdo'd,”jqytcalwqhjQhoa,jaohjrxkvlogj atujvqn
tvalnjkvqjgidjxr,jaohjgilogj qvlohjvlwjrcatqhjvqnjvaohjipqnjvlkjwixdvf
Vqjulkkqhjdvqjkiedjracwjdvadjrnqkkqhjxriojvlkjclrkf

“Oi,joi,jLjsio'd,jWnkfjRiodqcclqnfjLjhlho'djuoisjbixjwqaodjld,”jciiulog
xrjadjvqnjsldvjtanqkklogjqbqkfjDvqjdixtvjiejvlkjclrkjsakjcluqjajrcqaklog
kdlogjdijvqnjvaohfjKvqjcledqhjdvqjgancaohjiejnikqkjeniwjvlkjvqahjaoh
ecxogjldjatnikkjdvqjniiwf

“Tiwq,jPltdin;jbix'pqjrikqhjciogjqoixgvfjGlpqjWnkfjVlgvtawrjvqnjktanef”

WnkfjVlgvtawrjxohnarqhjdvqjktanejeniwja ixdjvlwjsldvjvqnjisojvaohkfjWlkk
Wab cxodjaohjWnfjGixpqnoalcjkxhhqocbjtiotqlpqhjdvqjoidliojdvadjldjsak
dlwqjdijkabjgiihjolgvdfjAohjWnfjaohjWnkfjWqnnlwaojsiohqnqhjvisjldjtixch
 qjkijcadqf

 qeinqjrandlogjeniwjPltdin,jWnkfjVlgvtawrjlopldqhjvlwjdijtaccjxriojvqn
haxgvdqn,jsvijkvqjuoqsjsixchj qjtvanwqhjdijwqqdjvlwjaohjdacujEnqotvjaoh
klogjEnqotvjkiogkjsldvjvlwfjPltdinjqyrnqkkqhjvlkjhqklnqjaohjlodqodliojdi
taccjxriojWlkkjVlgvtawrjadjdvqjelnkdjirrindxoldbjsvltvjrnqkqodqhjldkqcef
VqjakuqhjlejAni lojsqnqjgilogjvlkjsabfjAni lojsakjoidf

DvqjwaohiclojrcabqnkjvahjciogjklotqjkdicqojasabfjAjrnieixohjkdlccoqkk
vahjeaccqojxriojdvqj niah,j qaxdlexcjkdnqqdfjDvqjpiltqkjiejQhoa'k
hlk aohlogjgxqkdkjzannqhjcluqjajhlktinhaodjoidqjxriojdvqj.xlqdjvanwiob
iejdvqjolgvdf




YYYL


“Sqcc?”j.xqkdlioqhjAni lo,jsvijvahjnqwaloqhjsldvjQhoajaedqnjdvqjidvqnk
vahjhqrandqhf

“Sqcc,”jkvqjnqldqnadqh,jaohjkdiihjxr,jkdnqdtvlogjvqnjanwk,jaohjeqqclog
dvqjoqqhjdijnqcayjvqnjwxktcqkjaedqnjvaplogj qqojkijciogjkqadqhf

“Svadjoqyd?”jvqjakuqhf

“DvqjkqnpaodkjanqjaccjgioqfjDvqbjcqedjsvqojdvqjwxkltlaokjhlhfjLjvapq
hlkwlkkqhjdvqwfjDvqjvixkqjvakjdij qjtcikqhjaohjcituqh,jaohjLjkvaccjdnid
anixohjdijdvqjrlgqiojvixkq,jaohjkvaccjkqohjTqcqkdloqjipqnjlojdvqjwinolog
dijkdnalgvdqojdvlogkjxrf”

Vqjciiuqhjanixoh,jaohj qgaojdijdxnojixdjkiwqjiejdvqjclgvdkf

“Svadja ixdjxrkdalnk?”jvqjlo.xlnqhf

“Ljdvloujldjlkjaccjnlgvd;j xdjdvqnqjwabj qjajslohisjinjdsijxocadtvqhfjSq
vahj qddqnjciiu;jbixjwlgvdjdauqjajtaohcqjaohjkqqfjAohj nlogjwqjwbjsnar
aohjvadjiojdvqjeiidjiejdvqj qhjlojdvqjwlhhcqjniiwf”

Vqjsqodjxrjsldvjdvqjclgvd,jaohjQhoaj qgaojtciklogjhiinkjaohjslohiskfjKvq
vadqhjdijkvxdjlojdvqjkwiuqjaohjdvqjexwqkjiejdvqjsloqfjAni lojeixohjvqn
tarqjaohjvad,jsvltvjvqj nixgvdjhisojaohjvqcrqhjvqnjdijrxdjiof

Svqojqpqnbdvlogjsakjkqtxnqhjaohjdvqjclgvdkjrxdjixd,jdvqbjcqedjdvnixgv
dvqjeniodjhiin,jAni lojcitulogjldjaohjdaulogjdvqjuqb,jsvltvjvqjtannlqh
einjQhoafjVqjvqcrqhjvqnjhisojdvqjkdqrkf

“Slccjbixjvapqjajkrnabjiejzqkkawloq?”jvqjakuqh,j nqaulogjieejajeqs
 cikkiwkjakjvqjrakkqhf

“Oi;jLjhio'djsaodjaobdvlogf”

Kvqjkqqwqhjhlkvqandqoqh,jaohjvahjoidvlogjdijkabfjKvqjdiiujvlkjanw,jsvltv
vqjieeqnqhjvqn,jvichlogjxrjdvqjsqlgvdjiejvqnjkadlojdnalojsldvjdvqjidvqn
vaohfjKvqjciiuqhjhiso,joidltlogjdvqj catujcloqjiejvlkjcqgjwiplogjlojaoh
ixdjkijtcikqjdijvqnjagalokdjdvqjbqccisjkvlwwqnjiejvqnjgisofjDvqnq
sakjdvqjsvlkdcqjiejajnalcsabjdnalojkiwqsvqnqjlojdvqjhlkdaotq,jaohjdvq
wlholgvdj qcckjsqnqjnloglogfjDvqbjwqdjoijioqjlojdvqlnjkvindjsacuf

Dvqj“rlgqiojvixkq”jkdiihj qvlohjajcituqhjgadq,jaohjajkvaccisjrandqnnq
dvadjvahj qqojkiwqsvadjoqgcqtdqhfjDvqnqjsakjajkwaccjeniodjrintv,jxrio
svltvjajciogjslohisjaohjdvqjeniodjhiinjirqoqhfjDvqjhiinjirqoqhjhlnqtdcb
lodijdvqjrancin;jdvqnqjsakjoijklhqjqodnbfj atujlojdvqjbanhjsakjajniiw
einjkqnpaodk,jlojsvltvjichjTqcqkdloqjvahj qqojqoktiotqhf

Qhoajvahjcqedjajcawrj xnologjcisjxriojdvqjda cqfjKvqjvahjkxttqqhqhjlo
waulogjdvqjniiwjciiujva lda cqjaohjviwqcluqfjDvqnqjsqnqjkiwqj iiukjio
dvqjda cqjaohjajcixogqjoqanjadjvaohfjIojdvqjeciinjsakjajenqkvjwaddlog,
tipqnqhjsldvjajnxgjinjdsi;jaohjiojdvqjsacckjvxogjajeqsjdakdqexc
rltdxnqkfj xdjdvqjniiwjsakjelccqhjsldvjecisqnkfjDvqkqjsqnqjajkxnrnlkqjdi
vqnfjAni lojvahjkqodjdvqw,jaohjvahjvahjTqcqkdloqjhlkdnl xdqjdvqwjhxnlog
Qhoa'kja kqotqfjVqnj qhniiwjsakjahzilolog,jaohjatnikkjajkwaccjrakkagq
sqnqjdvqjhlolog-niiwjaohjuldtvqof

Qhoajkqadqhjvqnkqcejsldvjqpqnbjarrqanaotqjiejhlktiweindf

“Anqjbixjdlnqh?”jvqjakuqhf

“Bqk,jaohjtvlccqh,jaohjwlkqna cqfjLjeqqcjakjlejLjvahj qqojsixohjxrjdija
tqndalojrldtv--diijdlgvd--aohjkiwqdvlogjloklhqjiejwqjvahjkoarrqhf”jKvq
nqkdqhjvqnjvqahjagalokdjdvqjda cqjxriojvqnj anqjanwf

“Bixjsaodjdijnqkd,”jvqjkalh,j“aohjdij qj.xlqdfjL'ccjgi;jL'ccjcqapqjbix
aohjcqdjbixjnqkdf”

“Bqk,”jkvqjnqrclqhf

Vqjkdiihjxrj qklhqjvqnjaohjkwiidvqhjvqnjvalnjsldvjvlkjkied,jwagoqdlt
vaohfjVlkjdixtvjtiopqbqhjdijvqnjajtqndalojrvbkltacjtiweindfjKvqjtixch
vapqjeaccqoj.xlqdcbjakcqqrjdvqnqjlejvqjvahjtiodloxqhjdijrakkjvlkjvaoh
ipqnjvqnjvalnfjVqj nxkvqhjdvqjvalnjxrsanhjeniwjdvqjoarqjiejvqnjoqtuf

“Ljvirqjbixjslccjeqqcj qddqnjaohjvarrlqnjlojdvqjwinolog,”jvqjkalhfj“Bix
vapqjdnlqhjdijhijdiijwxtvjlojdvqjrakdjeqsjhabkfjDvqjhlooqnjsakjdvqjcakd
kdnas;jbixjwlgvdjvapqjhlkrqokqhjsldvjldf”

“Bqk,”jkvqjahwlddqh;j“ldjsakjkdxrlhf”

“Oi,jldjsakjhqclgvdexc;j xdjldjvakjsinojbixjixdf”jVlkjvaohjvahjkdnabqh
dijvqnj qaxdlexcjkvixchqnk,jaohjvqjtixchjeqqcjdvqjnqkriokqjiejvqnjecqkv
dijvlkjdixtvfjVqjkqadqhjvlwkqcej qklhqjvqnjaohjulkkqhjvqnjclgvdcbjxrio
dvqjkvixchqnf

“Ljdvixgvdjbixjsqnqjgilogjasab,”jkvqjkalh,jlojaojxoqpqojpiltqf

“Ljaw,jaedqnjLjvapqjkalhjgiihjolgvdf”

“Giihjolgvd,”jkvqjwxnwxnqhf

Vqjhlhjoidjaoksqn,jqytqrdjdijtiodloxqjdijtanqkkjvqnfjVqjhlhjoidjkabjgiih
olgvdjxodlcjkvqjvahj qtiwqjkxrrcqjdijvlkjgqodcq,jkqhxtdlpqjqodnqadlqkf




YYYLL


SvqojWnfjRiodqcclqnjcqanoqhjiejvlkjsleq'kjlodqodliojdija aohiojvqnjviwq
aohjdauqjxrjvqnjnqklhqotqjqckqsvqnq,jvqjlwwqhladqcbjsnidqjvqnjajcqddqn
iejxo.xaclelqhjhlkarrnipacjaohjnqwiokdnaotqfjKvqjvahjglpqojnqakiokjsvltv
vqjsakjxoslcclogjdijatuoiscqhgqjakjahq.xadqfjVqjvirqhjkvqjvahjoidjatdqh
xriojvqnjnakvjlwrxckq;jaohjvqj qggqhjvqnjdijtioklhqnjelnkd,jeinqwikd,
aohja ipqjaccjqckq,jsvadjrqircqjsixchjkabfjVqjsakjoidjhnqawlogjie
ktaohacjsvqojvqjxddqnqhjdvlkjsanolog;jdvadjsakjajdvlogjsvltvjsixchjoqpqn
vapqjqodqnqhjlodijvlkjwlohjdijtioklhqnjlojtiooqtdliojsldvjvlkjsleq'k
oawqjinjvlkjisofjVqjsakjklwrcbjdvloulogjiejvlkjeloaotlacjlodqgnldbfjLd
wlgvdjgqdjoilkqhja ixdjdvadjdvqjRiodqcclqnkjvahjwqdjsldvjnqpqnkqk,jaoh
sqnqjeintqhjdijtiohxtdjdvqlnjwqoagqjiojajvxw cqnjktacqjdvaojvqnqdieinqf
Ldjwlgvdjhijlotactxca cqjwlktvlqejdijvlkj xkloqkkjrnikrqtdkf

 xdjnqwqw qnlogjQhoa'kjsvlwkltacjdxnojiejwlohjiejcadq,jaohjeinqkqqlog
dvadjkvqjvahjlwwqhladqcbjatdqhjxriojvqnjlwrqdxixkjhqdqnwloadlio,jvq
gnakrqhjdvqjkldxadliojsldvjvlkjxkxacjrniwrdoqkkjaohjvaohcqhjldjsldvjvlk
sqcc-uoisoj xkloqkkjdatdjaohjtcqpqnoqkkf

Dvqjkawqjwalcjsvltvj nixgvdjdijQhoajvlkjcqddqnjiejhlkarrnipacjtannlqh
lokdnxtdliok--dvqjwikdjwloxdqjlokdnxtdliok--dijajsqcc-uoisojantvldqtd
tiotqnologjdvqjnqwihqclogjiejvlkjviwq,jtvaogqkjsvltvjvqjvahjciog
tiodqwrcadqh,jaohjsvltvjvqjhqklnqhjtannlqhjeinsanhjhxnlogjvlkjdqwrinanb
a kqotqf

Qyrqndjaohjnqcla cqjratuqnkjaohjwipqnkjsqnqjqogagqhjdijtiopqbjdvq
exnoldxnq,jtanrqdk,jrltdxnqk--qpqnbdvlogjwipa cq,jlojkvind--dijrcatqk
iejkqtxnldbfjAohjlojaojlotnqhl cbjkvindjdlwqjdvqjRiodqcclqnjvixkq
sakjdxnoqhjipqnjdijdvqjandlkaokfjDvqnqjsakjdij qjaojahhldlio--ajkwacc
koxggqnb;jdvqnqjsakjdij qjenqktilog,jaohjvanhsiihjeciinlogjsakjdij qjrxd
lodijkxtvjniiwkjakjvahjoidjbqdj qqojkx zqtdqhjdijdvlkjlwrnipqwqodf

Exndvqnwinq,jlojioqjiejdvqjhalcbjrarqnkjarrqanqhjaj nlqejoidltqjdijdvq
qeeqtdjdvadjWnfjaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjsqnqjtiodqwrcadlogjajkxwwqnjkizixno
a niah,jaohjdvadjdvqlnjvaohkiwqjnqklhqotqjiojQkrcaoahqjKdnqqdjsak
xohqngilogjkxwrdxixkjacdqnadliok,jaohjsixchjoidj qjnqahbjeinjittxraotb
xodlcjdvqlnjnqdxnofjWnfjRiodqcclqnjvahjkapqhjarrqanaotqk!

Qhoajahwlnqhjdvqjkulccjiejvlkjwaoqxpqn,jaohjapilhqhjaobjittakliojdij acu
vlkjlodqodliokfjSvqojdvqjkldxadliojakjkqdjeindvj bjWnfjRiodqcclqnjsak
attqrdqhjaohjdauqojeinjgnaodqh,jkvqjsakjarranqodcbjkadlkelqhjdvadjld
kvixchj qjkif

DvqjrlgqiojvixkqjrcqakqhjvqnfjLdjadjiotqjakkxwqhjdvqjlodlwadqjtvanatdqn
iejajviwq,jsvlcqjkvqjvqnkqcejlopqkdqhjldjsldvjajtvanwjsvltvjldjnqecqtdqh
cluqjajsanwjgcisfjDvqnqjsakjsldvjvqnjajeqqclogjiejvaplogjhqktqohqhjlo
dvqjkitlacjktacq,jsldvjajtinnqkriohlogjkqokqjiejvaplogjnlkqojlojdvq
krlnldxacfjQpqnbjkdqrjsvltvjkvqjdiiujdisanhjnqclqplogjvqnkqcejeniw
i clgadliokjahhqhjdijvqnjkdnqogdvjaohjqyraokliojakjaojlohlplhxacfjKvq
 qgaojdijciiujsldvjvqnjisojqbqk;jdijkqqjaohjdijarrnqvqohjdvqjhqqrqn
xohqntxnnqodkjiejcleqfjOijciogqnjsakjkvqjtiodqodjdij“eqqhjxriojirlolio”
jsvqojvqnjisojkixcjvahjlopldqhjvqnf

Aedqnjajclddcqjsvlcq,jajeqsjhabk,jlojeatd,jQhoajsqodjxrjaohjkrqodjajsqqu
sldvjvqnjtvlchnqojlojL qnplccqfjDvqbjsqnqjhqcltlixkjEq nxanbjhabk,jsldv
accjdvqjkxwwqn'kjrniwlkqjvipqnlogjlojdvqjalnf

Visjgcahjkvqjsakjdijkqqjdvqjtvlchnqo!jKvqjsqrdjeinjpqnbjrcqakxnqjsvqo
kvqjeqcdjdvqlnjclddcqjanwkjtcakrlogjvqn;jdvqlnjvanh,jnxhhbjtvqquk
rnqkkqhjagalokdjvqnjisojgcislogjtvqqukfjKvqjciiuqhjlodijdvqlnjeatqkjsldv
vxognbjqbqkjdvadjtixchjoidj qjkadlkelqhjsldvjciiulogfjAohjsvadjkdinlqk
dvqbjvahjdijdqccjdvqlnjwidvqn!jA ixdjdvqjrlgk,jdvqjtisk,jdvqjwxcqk!
A ixdjnlhlogjdijdvqjwlccj qvlohjGcxgcx;jelkvlogj atujlojdvqjcauqjsldv
dvqlnjXotcqjZakrqn;jrltulogjrqtaokjsldvjClhlq'kjclddcqj catuj niih,jaoh
vaxclogjtvlrkjlojdvqlnjqyrnqkkjsagiofjLdjsakjajdvixkaohjdlwqkjwinqjexo
dijvaxcjnqacjtvlrkjeinjichjcawqjKxklq'kjnqacjelnqjdvaojdijhnagjralodqh
 citukjaciogjdvqj ao.xqddqjiojQkrcaoahqjKdnqqd!

Kvqjsqodjsldvjdvqwjvqnkqcejdijkqqjdvqjrlgkjaohjdvqjtisk,jdijciiujadjdvq
hanulqkjcablogjdvqjtaoq,jdijdvnakvjdvqjrqtaojdnqqk,jaohjtadtvjelkvjlo
dvqj atujcauqfjKvqjclpqhjsldvjdvqwjajsvicqjsqqujciog,jglplogjdvqwjaccjie
vqnkqce,jaohjgadvqnlogjaohjelcclogjvqnkqcejsldvjdvqlnjbixogjqylkdqotqf
Dvqbjclkdqoqh,j nqadvcqkk,jsvqojkvqjdichjdvqwjdvqjvixkqjlojQkrcaoahq
Kdnqqdjsakjtnishqhjsldvjsinuwqo,jvawwqnlog,joalclog,jkaslog,jaohjelcclog
dvqjrcatqjsldvjtcaddqnfjDvqbjsaodqhjdijuoisjsvqnqjdvqlnj qhjsak;jsvad
vahj qqojhioqjsldvjdvqlnjnitulog-vinkq;jaohjsvqnqjhlhjZiqjkcqqr,jaoh
svqnqjvahjQccqojgioq,jaohjdvqjtiiu?j xd,ja ipqjacc,jdvqbjsqnqjelnqhjsldv
ajhqklnqjdijkqqjdvqjclddcqjvixkqjanixohjdvqj citufjSakjdvqnqjaob
rcatqjdijrcab?jSqnqjdvqnqjaobj ibkjoqydjhiin?jNaixc,jsldvjrqkklwlkdlt
einq ihlog,jsakjtioplotqhjdvadjdvqnqjsqnqjiocbjglnckjoqydjhiinfjSvqnq
sixchjdvqbjkcqqr,jaohjsvqnqjsixchjrarajkcqqr?jKvqjdichjdvqwjdvqjealnlqk
sixchjelyjldjaccjnlgvdf

DvqjichjWahawqjsakjtvanwqhjsldvjQhoa'kjplkld,jaohjkvisqnqhjaccjwaooqn
iejhqcltadqjaddqodliokjxriojvqnfjKvqjsakjhqclgvdqhjdijuoisjdvadjdvq
QkrcaoahqjKdnqqdjvixkqjsakjlojajhlkwaodcqhjtiohldliofjLdjgapqjvqnjdvq
rniwlkqjaohjrnqdqydjdijuqqrjdvqjtvlchnqojlohqeloldqcbf

LdjsakjsldvjajsnqotvjaohjajraogjdvadjQhoajcqedjvqnjtvlchnqofjKvqjtannlqh
asabjsldvjvqnjdvqjkixohjiejdvqlnjpiltqkjaohjdvqjdixtvjiejdvqlnjtvqqukf
Accjaciogjdvqjzixnoqbjviwqsanhjdvqlnjrnqkqotqjclogqnqhjsldvjvqnjcluqjdvq
wqwinbjiejajhqcltlixkjkiogfj xdj bjdvqjdlwqjkvqjvahjnqgaloqhjdvqjtldb
dvqjkiogjoijciogqnjqtviqhjlojvqnjkixcfjKvqjsakjagalojacioqf




YYYLLL


LdjvarrqoqhjkiwqdlwqkjsvqojQhoajsqodjdijkqqjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjdvad
dvqjclddcqjwxkltlaojsakja kqod,jglplogjajcqkkiojinjwaulogjkiwqjkwacc
oqtqkkanbjvixkqvichjrxntvakqfjDvqjuqbjsakjacsabkjcqedjlojajkqtnqd
vlhlog-rcatqjlojdvqjqodnb,jsvltvjQhoajuoqsfjLejWahqwilkqccqjvarrqoqhjdi
 qjasab,jQhoajsixchjxkxaccbjqodqnjaohjsaldjeinjvqnjnqdxnof

SvqojkvqjuoituqhjadjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjhiinjioqjaedqnoiiojdvqnqjsak
oijnqkriokq;jkijxocitulogjdvqjhiin,jakjxkxac,jkvqjqodqnqhjaohjeixohjdvq
arandwqodjhqkqndqh,jakjkvqjvahjqyrqtdqhfjVqnjhabjvahj qqoj.xldqjelccqh
xr,jaohjldjsakjeinjajnqkd,jeinjajnqexgq,jaohjdijdacuja ixdjNi qnd,jdvad
kvqjkixgvdjixdjvqnjenlqohf

Kvqjvahjsinuqhjadjvqnjtaopak--ajbixogjLdaclaojtvanatdqnjkdxhb--accjdvq
winolog,jtiwrcqdlogjdvqjsinujsldvixdjdvqjwihqc;j xdjdvqnqjvahj qqojwaob
lodqnnxrdliok,jkiwqjlotlhqodjdijvqnjwihqkdjvixkquqqrlog,jaohjidvqnkjieja
kitlacjoadxnqf

WahawqjNadlgoiccqjvahjhnaggqhjvqnkqcejipqn,japilhlogjdvqjdiijrx clt
dvinixgveanqk,jkvqjkalhfjKvqjtiwrcaloqhjdvadjQhoajvahjoqgcqtdqhjvqn
wxtvjiejcadqfj qklhqk,jkvqjsakjtiokxwqhjsldvjtxnlikldbjdijkqqjdvqjclddcq
vixkqjaohjdvqjwaooqnjlojsvltvjldjsakjtiohxtdqhfjKvqjsaodqhjdijvqanjacc
a ixdjdvqjhlooqnjrandb;jWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjvahjcqedjkijqancbfjSvadjvah
varrqoqhjaedqnjvqjcqed?jDvqjtvawragoqjaohjgnarqkjsvltvjQhoajkqodjipqn
sqnqjDIIjhqcltlixkfjKvqjvahjkijclddcqjarrqdldq;jdvqbjvahjnqenqkvqhjaoh
dioqhjvqnjkdiwatvfjSvqnqjiojqandvjsakjkvqjgilogjdijrxdjWnfjRiodqcclqnjlo
dvadjclddcqjvixkq,jaohjdvqj ibk?jAohjdvqojkvqjwahqjQhoajrniwlkqjdijgijdi
vqnjsvqojvqnjvixnjiejdnlacjipqndiiujvqnf

“Adjaobjdlwq--aobjdlwqjiejdvqjhabjinjolgvd,jhqan,”jQhoajakkxnqhjvqnf

 qeinqjcqaplogjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjkalh:

“Lojkiwqjsabjbixjkqqwjdijwqjcluqjajtvlch,jQhoafjBixjkqqwjdijatdjsldvixd
ajtqndalojawixodjiejnqecqtdliojsvltvjlkjoqtqkkanbjlojdvlkjcleqfjDvadjlk
dvqjnqakiojLjsaodjdijkabjbixjwxkdo'djwlohjlejLjahplkqjbixjdij qjajclddcq
tanqexcjsvlcqjbixjanqjclplogjvqnqjacioqfjSvbjhio'djbixjvapqjkiwqjioq
tiwqjaohjkdabjsldvjbix?jSixcho'djWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjtiwq?”

“Oi;jkvqjsixcho'djslkvjdijtiwq,jaohjLjkvixcho'djsaodjvqnjacsabkjsldv
wqf”

“Sqcc,jdvqjnqakio--bixjuoisjvisjqplc-wlohqhjdvqjsinchjlk--kiwqjioqjsak
daculogjiejActqqjAni lojplkldlogjbixfjIejtixnkq,jldjsixcho'djwaddqnjle
WnfjAni lojvahjoidjkxtvjajhnqahexcjnqrxdadliofjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsak
dqcclogjwqjdvadjvlkjaddqodliokjacioqjanqjtioklhqnqhjqoixgvjdijnxloja
siwao'kjoawqf”

“Hiqkjvqj iakdjiejvlkjkxttqkkqk?”jakuqhjQhoa,jlohleeqnqodcb,jk.xlodlog
adjvqnjrltdxnqf

“Oi,jLjdvloujoidfjLj qclqpqjvqjlkjajhqtqodjeqccisjakjeanjakjdvadjgiqkf
 xdjvlkjtvanatdqnjlkjkijsqccjuoisojawiogjdvqjwqofjLjkvao'dj qja cqjdi
tiwqj atujaohjkqqjbix;jldjsakjpqnb,jpqnbjlwrnxhqodjdi-habf”

“Wlohjdvqjkdqr!”jtnlqhjQhoaf

“Hio'djoqgcqtdjwq,”jqodnqadqhjWahawqjNadlgoiccq;j“aohjhio'djwlohjsvadjL
kalhja ixdjAni lo,jinjvaplogjkiwqjioqjdijkdabjsldvjbixf

“Iejtixnkqjoid,”jQhoajcaxgvqhfj“Bixjwabjkabjaobdvlogjbixjcluqjdijwqf”
jDvqbjulkkqhjqatvjidvqnjgiih- bfjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjvahjoidjeanjdijgi,jaoh
Qhoajkdiihjiojdvqjrintvjajsvlcqjsadtvlogjvqnjsacujhisojdvqjkdnqqdf

DvqojlojdvqjaedqnoiiojWnkfjWqnnlwaojaohjWnkfjVlgvtawrjvahjwahqjdvqln
“randbjtaccf”jQhoajeqcdjdvadjdvqbjwlgvdjvapqjhlkrqokqhjsldvjdvq
einwacldbfjDvqbjvahjackijtiwqjdijlopldqjvqnjdijrcabjplogd-qd-xojioq
qpqologjadjWnkfjWqnnlwao'kfjKvqjsakjakuqhjdijgijqancb,jdijhlooqn,jaoh
WnfjWqnnlwaojinjWnfjAni lojsixchjdauqjvqnjviwqfjQhoajattqrdqhjloja
vace-vqandqhjsabfjKvqjkiwqdlwqkjeqcdjpqnbjdlnqhjiejWnkfjVlgvtawrjaoh
WnkfjWqnnlwaof

CadqjlojdvqjaedqnoiiojkvqjkixgvdjnqexgqjsldvjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm,jaoh
kdabqhjdvqnqjacioq,jsaldlogjeinjvqn,jeqqclogjajulohjiejnqrikqjlopahqjvqn
sldvjdvqjpqnbjadwikrvqnqjiejdvqjkva  b,jxornqdqodlixkjclddcqjniiwf

Qhoajkadjadjdvqjslohis,jsvltvjciiuqhjixdjipqnjdvqjvixkq-dirkjaohjatnikk
dvqjnlpqnfjDvqjslohisjenawqjsakjelccqhjsldvjridkjiejecisqnk,jaohjkvqjkad
aohjrltuqhjdvqjhnbjcqapqkjeniwjajnikqjgqnaolxwfjDvqjhabjsakjsanw,jaoh
dvqj nqqmqjsvltvj cqsjeniwjdvqjnlpqnjsakjpqnbjrcqakaodfjKvqjnqwipqhjvqn
vadjaohjcalhjldjiojdvqjrlaoifjKvqjsqodjiojrltulogjdvqjcqapqkjaoh
hlgglogjanixohjdvqjrcaodkjsldvjvqnjvadjrlofjIotqjkvqjdvixgvdjkvqjvqanh
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjarrniatvlogfj xdjldjsakjajbixogj catujglnc,jsvi
tawqjlo,j nloglogjajkwaccj xohcqjiejcaxohnb,jsvltvjkvqjhqrikldqhjlojdvq
ahzilologjniiw,jaohjsqodjasabf

Qhoajkqadqhjvqnkqcejadjdvqjrlaoi,jaohjkiedcbjrltuqhjixdjsldvjioqjvaoh
dvqj ankjiejajrlqtqjiejwxkltjsvltvjcabjirqoj qeinqjvqnfjAjvace-vixnjsqod
 bfjDvqnqjsakjdvqjittaklioacjkixohjiejrqircqjgilogjaohjtiwlogjlojdvq
cisqnjvaccfjKvqjsakjgnislogjlodqnqkdqhjlojvqnjittxradliojiejrltulogjixd
dvqjanla,jsvqojdvqnqjsakjajkqtiohjnarjadjdvqjhiinfjKvqjpagxqcbjsiohqnqh
svadjdvqkqjrqircqjhlhjsvqojdvqbjeixohjWahqwilkqccq'kjhiinjcituqhf

“Tiwqjlo,”jkvqjtaccqh,jdxnologjvqnjeatqjdisanhjdvqjhiinfjAohjdvlkjdlwq
ldjsakjNi qndjCq nxojsvijrnqkqodqhjvlwkqcefjKvqjaddqwrdqhjdijnlkq;jkvq
tixchjoidjvapqjhioqjkijsldvixdj qdnablogjdvqjagldadliojsvltvjwakdqnqh
vqnjadjklgvdjiejvlw,jkijkvqjeqccj atujxriojdvqjkdiic,jiocbjqytcalwlog,
“Svb,jNi qnd!”

Vqjtawqjaohjtcakrqhjvqnjvaoh,jkqqwlogcbjsldvixdjuoislogjsvadjvqjsak
kablogjinjhilogf

“WnkfjRiodqcclqn!jVisjhijbixjvarrqo--iv!jvisjsqccjbixjciiu!jLk
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjoidjvqnq?jLjoqpqnjqyrqtdqhjdijkqqjbixf”

“Svqojhlhjbixjtiwqj atu?”jakuqhjQhoajlojaojxokdqahbjpiltq,jslrlogjvqn
eatqjsldvjvqnjvaohuqntvlqefjKvqjkqqwqhjlccjadjqakqjiojdvqjrlaoijkdiic,
aohjvqj qggqhjvqnjdijdauqjdvqjtvalnj bjdvqjslohisf

Kvqjhlhjki,jwqtvaoltaccb,jsvlcqjvqjkqadqhjvlwkqcejiojdvqjkdiicf

“Ljnqdxnoqhjhabj qeinqjbqkdqnhab,”jvqjaoksqnqh,jsvlcqjvqjcqaoqhjvlkjanw
iojdvqjuqbk,j nloglogjeindvjajtnakvjiejhlktinhaodjkixohf

“Habj qeinqjbqkdqnhab!”jkvqjnqrqadqh,jacixh;jaohjsqodjiojdvloulogjdi
vqnkqce,j“habj qeinqjbqkdqnhab,”jlojajkindjiejaojxotiwrnqvqohlogjsabf
Kvqjvahjrltdxnqhjvlwjkqqulogjvqnjadjdvqjpqnbjelnkdjvixn,jaohjvqjvah
clpqhjxohqnjdvqjkawqjkubjklotqjhabj qeinqjbqkdqnhab;jsvlcqjiocbj b
attlhqodjvahjvqjkdxw cqhjxriojvqnfjWahqwilkqccqjwxkdjvapqjclqhjsvqojkvq
kalh,j“Riinjeiic,jvqjcipqkjbixf”

“Habj qeinqjbqkdqnhab,”jkvqjnqrqadqh,j nqaulogjieejajkrnabjie
Wahqwilkqccq'kjgqnaolxw;j“dvqojlejbixjvahjoidjwqdjwqjvqnqjdi-habjbix
sixcho'd--svqo--dvadjlk,jhlho'djbixjwqaojdijtiwqjaohjkqqjwq?”

“Iejtixnkq,jLjkvixchjvapqjgioqjdijkqqjbixfjDvqnqjvapqj qqojkijwaob
dvlogk--”jvqjdxnoqhjdvqjcqapqkjiejWahqwilkqccq'kjwxkltjoqnpixkcbfj“L
kdandqhjlojadjiotqjbqkdqnhabjsldvjdvqjichjelnwfjAedqnjaccjdvqnqjlkjak
wxtvjtvaotqjeinjwqjvqnqjakjdvqnqjsakjdvqnq--dvadjlk,jLjwlgvdjelohjld
rnielda cqjkiwqjhabfjDvqjWqyltaokjsqnqjoidjpqnbjtiogqolacf”

Kijvqjvahjtiwqj atuj qtaxkqjdvqjWqyltaokjsqnqjoidjtiogqolac;j qtaxkq
 xkloqkkjsakjakjrnielda cqjvqnqjakjdvqnq;j qtaxkqjiejaobjnqakio,jaohjoid
 qtaxkqjvqjtanqhjdij qjoqanjvqnfjKvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvqjhabjkvqjkadjiojdvq
eciin,jdxnologjdvqjragqkjiejvlkjcqddqn,jkqqulogjdvqjnqakiojsvltvjsak
cqedjxodichf

Kvqjvahjoidjoidltqhjvisjvqjciiuqh--iocbjeqqclogjvlkjrnqkqotq;j xdjkvq
dxnoqhjhqcl qnadqcbjaohji kqnpqhjvlwfjAedqnjacc,jvqjvahj qqoja kqodj xd
ajeqsjwiodvk,jaohjsakjoidjtvaogqhfjVlkjvaln--dvqjticinjiejvqnk--sapqh
 atujeniwjvlkjdqwrcqkjlojdvqjkawqjsabjakj qeinqfjVlkjkulojsakjoidjwinq
 xnoqhjdvaojldjvahj qqojadjGnaohjLkcqfjKvqjeixohjlojvlkjqbqk,jsvqojvq
ciiuqhjadjvqnjeinjioqjklcqodjwiwqod,jdvqjkawqjdqohqnjtanqkk,jsldvjao
ahhqhjsanwdvjaohjqodnqadbjsvltvjvahjoidj qqojdvqnqj qeinqjdvqjkawq
gcaotqjsvltvjvahjrqoqdnadqhjdijdvqjkcqqrlogjrcatqkjiejvqnjkixcjaoh
asauqoqhjdvqwf

AjvxohnqhjdlwqkjQhoajvahjrltdxnqhjNi qnd'kjnqdxno,jaohjlwagloqhjdvqln
elnkdjwqqdlogfjLdjsakjxkxaccbjadjvqnjviwq,jsvldvqnjvqjvahjkixgvdjvqnjixd
adjiotqfjKvqjacsabkjeaotlqhjvlwjqyrnqkklogjinj qdnablogjlojkiwqjsabjvlk
cipqjeinjvqnfjAohjvqnq,jdvqjnqacldbjsakjdvadjdvqbjkadjdqojeqqdjarand,
kvqjadjdvqjslohis,jtnxkvlogjgqnaolxwjcqapqkjlojvqnjvaohjaohjkwqcclog
dvqw,jvqjdslnclogjanixohjiojdvqjrlaoijkdiic,jkablog:

“LjsakjpqnbjwxtvjkxnrnlkqhjdijvqanjiejWnfjRiodqcclqn'kja kqotq;jld'kja
siohqnjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjhlhjoidjdqccjwq;jaohjbixnjwiplog--widvqnjdich
wqjbqkdqnhabfjLjkvixchjdvloujbixjsixchjvapqjgioqjdijOqsjBinujsldvjvlw,
injdijL qnplccqjsldvjdvqjtvlchnqo,jnadvqnjdvaoj qj idvqnqhjvqnqjsldv
vixkquqqrlogfjAohjbixjanqjgilogja niah,jdii,jLjvqanfjSqjkvao'djvapq
bixjadjGnaohjLkcqjoqydjkxwwqn;jldjsio'djkqqw--hijbixjkqqjwxtvjie
WahqwilkqccqjNqlkm?jKvqjiedqojkriuqjiejbixjlojdvqjeqsjcqddqnkjkvq
snidqf”

“Hijbixjnqwqw qnjdvadjbixjrniwlkqhjdijsnldqjdijwqjsvqojbixjsqodjasab?”jA
ecxkvjipqnkrnqahjvlkjsvicqjeatqf

“Ljtixcho'dj qclqpqjdvadjwbjcqddqnkjsixchj qjiejaobjlodqnqkdjdijbixf”

“Dvadjlkjaojqytxkq;jldjlko'djdvqjdnxdvf”jQhoajnqatvqhjeinjvqnjvadjiojdvq
rlaoifjKvqjahzxkdqhjld,jkdltulogjdvqjvadjrlojdvnixgvjdvqjvqapbjtilcjie
valnjsldvjkiwqjhqcl qnadliof

“AnqjbixjoidjgilogjdijsaldjeinjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm?”jakuqhjNi qndf

“Oi;jLjvapqjeixohjsvqojkvqjlkja kqodjdvlkjciog,jkvqjlkjcla cqjoidjdi
tiwqj atujdlccjcadqf”jKvqjhnqsjiojvqnjgcipqk,jaohjNi qndjrltuqhjxrjvlk
vadf

“Sio'djbixjsaldjeinjvqn?”jakuqhjQhoaf

“Oidjlejbixjdvloujkvqjslccjoidj qj atujdlccjcadq,”jahhlog,jakjle
kxhhqocbjasanqjiejkiwqjhlktixndqkbjlojvlkjkrqqtv,j“aohjLjkvixchjwlkkjdvq
rcqakxnqjiejsaculogjviwqjsldvjbixf”jQhoajcituqhjdvqjhiinjaohjrxdjdvqjuqb
 atujlojldkjvlhlog-rcatqf

Dvqbjsqodjdigqdvqn,jrltulogjdvqlnjsabjatnikkjwxhhbjkdnqqdkjaohjklhqsacuk
qotxw qnqhjsldvjdvqjtvqarjhlkrcabjiejkwaccjdnahqkwqofjRandjiejdvq
hlkdaotqjdvqbjnihqjlojdvqjtan,jaohjaedqnjhlkqw anulog,jrakkqhjdvq
Riodqcclqnjwaoklio,jsvltvjciiuqhj niuqojaohjvacejdinojakxohqnfjNi qnd
vahjoqpqnjuoisojdvqjvixkq,jaohjciiuqhjadjldjsldvjlodqnqkdf

“Ljoqpqnjuoqsjbixjlojbixnjviwq,”jvqjnqwanuqhf

“Ljawjgcahjbixjhlhjoidf”

“Svb?”jKvqjhlhjoidjaoksqnfjDvqbjsqodjiojanixohjdvqjtinoqn,jaohjldjkqqwqh
akjlejvqnjhnqawkjsqnqjtiwlogjdnxqjaedqnjacc,jsvqojvqjeiccisqhjvqnjlodi
dvqjclddcqjvixkqf

“Bixjwxkdjkdabjaohjhloqjsldvjwq,jNi qndfjBixjkqqjLjawjaccjacioq,jaohjld
lkjkijciogjklotqjLjvapqjkqqojbixfjDvqnqjlkjkijwxtvjLjsaodjdijakujbixf”

KvqjdiiujieejvqnjvadjaohjgcipqkfjVqjkdiihjlnnqkicxdq,jwaulogjkiwqjqytxkq
a ixdjvlkjwidvqnjsvijqyrqtdqhjvlw;jvqjqpqojwxddqnqhjkiwqdvlogja ixdjao
qogagqwqodfjKvqjkdnxtujajwadtvjaohjcldjdvqjcawrjiojdvqjda cq;jldjsak
gnislogjhxkufjSvqojvqjkasjvqnjeatqjlojdvqjcawr-clgvd,jciiulogjraloqh,
sldvjaccjdvqjkiedjcloqkjgioqjixdjiejld,jvqjdvnqsjvlkjvadjaklhqjaoh
kqadqhjvlwkqcef

“Iv!jbixjuoisjLjsaodjdijkdabjlejbixjslccjcqdjwq!”jvqjqytcalwqhfjAcc
dvqjkiedoqkkjtawqj atufjKvqjcaxgvqh,jaohjsqodjaohjrxdjvqnjvaohjiojvlk
kvixchqnf

“DvlkjlkjdvqjelnkdjwiwqodjbixjvapqjkqqwqhjcluqjdvqjichjNi qndfjL'cc
gijdqccjTqcqkdloqf”jKvqjvxnnlqhjasabjdijdqccjTqcqkdloqjdijkqdjaojqydna
rcatqfjKvqjqpqojkqodjvqnjieejlojkqantvjiejkiwqjahhqhjhqcltatbjsvltv
kvqjvahjoidjdvixgvdjiejeinjvqnkqcefjAohjkvqjnqtiwwqohqhjgnqadjtanqjlo
hnlrrlogjdvqjtieeqqjaohjvaplogjdvqjiwqcqdjhioqjdijajrnirqnjdxnof

Svqojkvqjnqqodqnqh,jNi qndjsakjdxnologjipqnjwagamloqk,jkuqdtvqk,
aohjdvlogkjdvadjcabjxriojdvqjda cqjlojgnqadjhlkinhqnfjVqjrltuqhjxrja
rvidignarv,jaohjqytcalwqh:

“ActqqjAni lo!jSvadjiojqandvjlkjvlkjrltdxnqjhilogjvqnq?”

“Ljdnlqhjdijwauqjajkuqdtvjiejvlkjvqahjioqjhab,”jaoksqnqhjQhoa,j“aoh
vqjdvixgvdjdvqjrvidignarvjwlgvdjvqcrjwqfjLdjsakjadjdvqjidvqnjvixkqfjL
dvixgvdjldjvahj qqojcqedjdvqnqfjLjwxkdjvapqjratuqhjldjxrjsldvjwbjhnaslog
wadqnlackf”

“Ljkvixchjdvloujbixjsixchjglpqjldj atujdijvlwjlejbixjvapqjelolkvqhjsldv
ldf”

“Iv!jLjvapqjajgnqadjwaobjkxtvjrvidignarvkfjLjoqpqnjdvloujiejnqdxnolog
dvqwfjDvqbjhio'djawixodjdijaobdvlogf”jNi qndjuqrdjiojciiulogjadjdvq
rltdxnqf

“Ldjkqqwkjdijwq--hijbixjdvloujvlkjvqahjsindvjhnaslog?jLkjvqjajenlqohjie
WnfjRiodqcclqn'k?jBixjoqpqnjkalhjbixjuoqsjvlwf”

“Vqjlko'djajenlqohjiejWnfjRiodqcclqn'k;jvq'kjajenlqohjiejwloqfjLjacsabk
uoqsjvlw--dvadjlk,jldjlkjiocbjiejcadqjdvadjLjuoisjvlwjrnqddbjsqccfj xd
L'hjnadvqnjdacuja ixdjbix,jaohjuoisjsvadjbixjvapqj qqojkqqlogjaohjhilog
aohjeqqclogjixdjdvqnqjlojWqyltif”jNi qndjdvnqsjaklhqjdvqjrltdxnqf

“L'pqj qqojkqqlogjdvqjsapqkjaohjdvqjsvldqj qatvjiejGnaohjLkcq;jdvq
.xlqd,jgnakkbjkdnqqdjiejdvqjTvqolqnq;jdvqjichjeindjadjGnaohqjDqnnqfjL'pq
 qqojsinulogjcluqjajwatvloq,jaohjeqqclogjcluqjajcikdjkixcfjDvqnqjsak
oidvlogjlodqnqkdlogf”

Kvqjcqaoqhjvqnjvqahjxriojvqnjvaohjdijkvahqjvqnjqbqkjeniwjdvqjclgvdf

“Aohjsvadjvapqjbixj qqojkqqlogjaohjhilogjaohjeqqclogjaccjdvqkqjhabk?”jvq
akuqhf

“L'pqj qqojkqqlogjdvqjsapqkjaohjdvqjsvldqj qatvjiejGnaohjLkcq;jdvq
.xlqd,jgnakkbjkdnqqdjiejdvqjTvqolqnqjTawloaha;jdvqjichjkxoobjeindjad
GnaohqjDqnnqfjL'pqj qqojsinulogjsldvjajclddcqjwinqjtiwrnqvqokliojdvao
ajwatvloq,jaohjkdlccjeqqclogjcluqjajcikdjkixcfjDvqnqjsakjoidvlog
lodqnqkdlogf”

“WnkfjRiodqcclqn,jbixjanqjtnxqc,”jvqjkalh,jsldvjeqqclog,jtciklogjvlk
qbqkjaohjnqkdlogjvlkjvqahj atujlojvlkjtvalnfjDvqbjnqwaloqhjlojklcqotq
dlccjichjTqcqkdloqjaooixotqhjhlooqnf




YYYLP


Dvqjhlolog-niiwjsakjpqnbjkwaccfjQhoa'kjnixohjwavigaobjsixchjvapqjacwikd
elccqhjldfjAkjldjsakjdvqnqjsakj xdjajkdqrjinjdsijeniwjdvqjclddcqjda cq
dijdvqjuldtvqo,jdijdvqjwaodqc,jdvqjkwaccj xeeqd,jaohjdvqjklhqjhiinjdvad
irqoqhjixdjiojdvqjoannisj nltu-rapqhjbanhf

Ajtqndalojhqgnqqjiejtqnqwiobjkqddcqhjxriojdvqwjsldvjdvqjaooixotqwqodjie
hlooqnfjDvqnqjsakjoijnqdxnojdijrqnkioacldlqkfjNi qndjnqcadqhjlotlhqodk
iejvlkjkizixnojlojWqylti,jaohjQhoajdacuqhjiejqpqodkjcluqcbjdijlodqnqkd
vlw,jsvltvjvahjittxnnqhjhxnlogjvlkja kqotqfjDvqjhlooqnjsakjiejinhloanb
.xacldb,jqytqrdjeinjdvqjeqsjhqcltatlqkjsvltvjkvqjvahjkqodjixdjdi
rxntvakqfjIchjTqcqkdloq,jsldvjaj aohaoajdlgoiojdslkdqhja ixdjvqnjvqah,
vi  cqhjlojaohjixd,jdaulogjajrqnkioacjlodqnqkdjlojqpqnbdvlog;jaohjkvq
clogqnqhjittaklioaccbjdijdacujradilkjsldvjNi qnd,jsviwjkvqjvahjuoisojak
aj ibf

Vqjsqodjixdjdijajoqlgv inlogjtlganjkdaohjdijrxntvakqjtlganqddqjrarqnk,
aohjsvqojvqjtawqj atujvqjeixohjdvadjTqcqkdloqjvahjkqnpqhjdvqj catu
tieeqqjlojdvqjrancinf

“RqnvarkjLjkvixcho'djvapqjtiwqj atu,”jvqjkalhfj“Svqojbixjanqjdlnqhjie
wq,jdqccjwqjdijgif”

“BixjoqpqnjdlnqjwqfjBixjwxkdjvapqjeingiddqojdvqjvixnkjaohjvixnkjad
GnaohjLkcqjlojsvltvjsqjgnqsjattxkdiwqhjdijqatvjidvqnjaohjxkqhjdij qlog
digqdvqnf”

“LjvapqjeingiddqojoidvlogjadjGnaohjLkcq,”jvqjkalh,joidjciiulogjadjvqn,
 xdjnicclogjajtlganqddqfjVlkjdi attijrixtv,jsvltvjvqjcalhjxriojdvq
da cq,jsakjajeaodakdltjqw nilhqnqhjklcujaeealn,jqplhqodcbjdvqjvaohlsinu
iejajsiwaof

“Bixjxkqhjdijtannbjbixnjdi attijlojajnx  qnjrixtv,”jkalhjQhoa,jrltulog
xrjdvqjrixtvjaohjqyawlologjdvqjoqqhcqsinuf

“Bqk;jldjsakjcikdf”

“Svqnqjhlhjbixj xbjdvlkjioq?jLojWqylti?”

“Ldjsakjglpqojdijwqj bjajPqnajTnxmjglnc;jdvqbjanqjpqnbjgqoqnixk,”jvq
nqrclqh,jkdnlulogjajwadtvjaohjclgvdlogjvlkjtlganqddqf

“Dvqbjanqjpqnbjvaohkiwq,jLjkxrrikq,jdvikqjWqyltaojsiwqo;jpqnb
rltdxnqk.xq,jsldvjdvqlnj catujqbqkjaohjdvqlnjcatqjktanekf”

“Kiwqjanq;jidvqnkjanqjvlhqixk,jzxkdjakjbixjelohjsiwqojqpqnbsvqnqf”

“Svadjsakjkvqjcluq--dvqjioqjsvijgapqjbixjdvqjrixtv?jBixjwxkdjvapqjuoiso
vqnjpqnbjsqccf”

“KvqjsakjpqnbjinhloanbfjKvqjsako'djiejdvqjkclgvdqkdjlwrindaotqfjLjuoqs
vqnjsqccjqoixgvf”

“Hlhjbixjplkldjadjvqnjvixkq?jSakjldjlodqnqkdlog?jLjkvixchjcluqjdijuois
aohjvqanja ixdjdvqjrqircqjbixjwqd,jaohjdvqjlwrnqkkliokjdvqbjwahqjio
bixf”

“Dvqnqjanqjkiwqjrqircqjsvijcqapqjlwrnqkkliokjoidjkijcakdlogjakjdvq
lwrnlodjiejaojianjxriojdvqjsadqnf”

“Sakjkvqjkxtvjajioq?”

“Ldjsixchj qjxogqoqnixkjeinjwqjdijahwldjdvadjkvqjsakjiejdvadjinhqnjaoh
ulohf”jVqjdvnxkdjdvqjrixtvj atujlojvlkjrituqd,jakjlejdijrxdjasabjdvq
kx zqtdjsldvjdvqjdnlecqjsvltvjvahj nixgvdjldjxrf

Ani lojhnirrqhjlojsldvjajwqkkagqjeniwjWnkfjWqnnlwao,jdijkabjdvad
dvqjtanhjrandbjsakjrikdrioqhjiojattixodjiejdvqjlccoqkkjiejioqjiejvqn
tvlchnqof

“Visjhijbixjhi,jAni lo?”jkalhjNi qnd,jnlklogjeniwjdvqji ktxnldbf

“Iv!jCq nxofjDij qjkxnq!jLjvqanhjbqkdqnhabjbixjsqnqj atufjVisjhlhjdvqb
dnqadjbixjhisojlojWqyl.xq?”

“Ealncbjsqccf”

“ xdjoidjsqccjqoixgvjdijuqqrjbixjdvqnqfjKdxoologjglnck,jdvixgv,jlo
WqyltifjLjdvixgvdjLjkvixchjoqpqnjgqdjasabjeniwjPqnajTnxmjsvqojLjsakjhiso
dvqnqjajtixrcqjiejbqankjagif”

“Hlhjdvqbjqw nilhqnjkclrrqnkjaohjdi attijrixtvqkjaohjvad- aohkjaoh
dvlogkjeinjbix?”jakuqhjQhoaf

“Iv!jwb!joi!jLjhlho'djgqdjkijhqqrjlojdvqlnjnqganhfjLjeqanjdvqbjwahqjwinq
lwrnqkkliojiojwqjdvaojLjwahqjiojdvqwf”

“BixjsqnqjcqkkjeindxoadqjdvaojNi qnd,jdvqof”

“LjawjacsabkjcqkkjeindxoadqjdvaojNi qndfjVakjvqj qqojlwrandlogjdqohqn
tioelhqotqk?”

“L'pqj qqojlwriklogjwbkqcejciogjqoixgv,”jkalhjNi qnd,jnlklog,jaoh
kvaulogjvaohkjsldvjQhoafj“RcqakqjtiopqbjwbjnqganhkjdijWnfjRiodqcclqn
svqojbixjsnldqf”

VqjkviiujvaohkjsldvjAni lojaohjsqodjasabf

“Eloqjeqccis,jdvadjCq nxo,”jkalhjAni lojsvqojNi qndjvahjgioqfj“Ljoqpqn
vqanhjbixjkrqaujiejvlwf”

“LjuoqsjvlwjcakdjkxwwqnjadjGnaohjLkcq,”jkvqjnqrclqhfj“Vqnqjlkjdvad
rvidignarvjiejbixnkfjHio'djbixjsaodjld?”

“SvadjhijLjsaodjsldvjld?jDvnisjldjasabf”jKvqjdvnqsjldj atujiojdvqjda cqf

“L'wjoidjgilogjdijWnkfjWqnnlwao'k,”jkvqjkalhfj“Lejbixjkqqjvqn,jdqccjvqn
kifj xdjrqnvarkjLjvahj qddqnjsnldqfjLjdvloujLjkvaccjsnldqjois,jaohjkab
dvadjLjawjkinnbjvqnjtvlchjlkjkltu,jaohjdqccjvqnjoidjdijtixodjiojwqf”

“Ldjsixchj qjajgiihjktvqwq,”jat.xlqktqhjAni lofj“Ljhio'dj cawqjbix;
kdxrlhjcid!”

Qhoajirqoqhjdvqj ciddqn,jaohjvaplogjrnitxnqhjrarqnjaohjrqo,j qgaojdi
snldqjdvqjoidqfjAni lojcldjajtlganjaohjnqahjdvqjqpqologjrarqn,jsvltvjvq
vahjlojvlkjrituqdf

“Svadjlkjdvqjhadq?”jkvqjakuqhfjVqjdichjvqnf

“Slccjbixjwalcjdvlkjeinjwqjsvqojbixjgijixd?”

“Tqndalocbf”jVqjnqahjdijvqnjclddcqj ldkjixdjiejdvqjoqskrarqn,jsvlcqjkvq
kdnalgvdqoqhjdvlogkjiojdvqjda cqf

“Svadjhijbixjsaodjdijhi?”jvqjakuqh,jdvnislogjaklhqjdvqjrarqnfj“Hijbix
saodjdijgijixdjeinjajsacujinjajhnlpqjinjaobdvlog?jLdjsixchj qjajeloq
olgvdjdijhnlpqf”

“Oi;jLjhio'djsaodjdijhijaobdvlogj xdjzxkdj qj.xlqdfjBixjgijasabjaoh
awxkqjbixnkqcefjHio'djkdabf”

“L'ccjgijasabjlejLjwxkd;j xdjLjkvao'djawxkqjwbkqcefjBixjuoisjdvadjLjiocb
clpqjsvqojLjawjoqanjbixf”

Vqjkdiihjxrjdij lhjvqnjgiihjolgvdf

“Lkjdvadjioqjiejdvqjdvlogkjbixjacsabkjkabjdijsiwqo?”

“Ljvapqjkalhjldj qeinq,j xdjLjhio'djdvloujLjqpqnjtawqjkijoqanjwqaolog
ld,”jvqjaoksqnqhjsldvjajkwlcqfjDvqnqjsqnqjoijsanwjclgvdkjlojvqnjqbqk;
iocbjajhnqawb,ja kqodjciiuf

“GiihjolgvdfjLjahinqjbixfjKcqqrjsqcc,”jvqjkalh,jaohjvqjulkkqhjvqnjvaoh
aohjsqodjasabf

Kvqjkdabqhjacioqjlojajulohjiejnqpqnlq--ajkindjiejkdxrinfjKdqrj bjkdqr
kvqjclpqhjipqnjqpqnbjlokdaodjiejdvqjdlwqjkvqjvahj qqojsldvjNi qndjaedqn
vqjvahjqodqnqhjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'kjhiinfjKvqjnqtaccqhjvlkjsinhk,
vlkjciiukfjVisjeqsjaohjwqagqnjdvqbjvahj qqojeinjvqnjvxognbjvqand!jA
plklio--ajdnaoktqohqodcbjkqhxtdlpqjplkliojiejajWqyltaojglncjanikqj qeinq
vqnfjKvqjsnldvqhjsldvjajzqacixkjraogfjKvqjsiohqnqhjsvqojvqjsixchjtiwq
 atufjVqjvahjoidjkalhjvqjsixchjtiwqj atufjKvqjvahj qqojsldvjvlw,jvah
vqanhjvlkjpiltqjaohjdixtvqhjvlkjvaohfj xdjkiwqjsabjvqjvahjkqqwqhjoqanqn
dijvqnjieejdvqnqjlojWqyltif




YYYP


DvqjwinologjsakjexccjiejkxoclgvdjaohjvirqfjQhoajtixchjkqqj qeinqjvqnjoi
hqolac--iocbjdvqjrniwlkqjiejqytqkklpqjzibfjKvqjcabjloj qhjasauq,jsldv
 nlgvdjqbqkjexccjiejkrqtxcadliofj“Vqjcipqkjbix,jriinjeiicf”jLejkvqjtixch
 xdjgqdjdvadjtiopltdliojelnwcbjelyqhjlojvqnjwloh,jsvadjwaddqnqhja ixd
dvqjnqkd?jKvqjeqcdjkvqjvahj qqojtvlchlkvjaohjxoslkqjdvqjolgvdj qeinqjlo
glplogjvqnkqcejipqnjdijhqkriohqotbfjKvqjnqtarldxcadqhjdvqjwidlpqkjsvltv
oijhix djqyrcaloqhjNi qnd'kjnqkqnpqfjDvqbjsqnqjoidjlokxnwixoda cq;jdvqb
sixchjoidjvichjlejvqjnqaccbjcipqhjvqn;jdvqbjtixchjoidjvichjagalokdjvqn
isojrakklio,jsvltvjvqjwxkdjtiwqjdijnqaclmqjlojdlwqfjKvqjrltdxnqhjvlw
gilogjdijvlkj xkloqkkjdvadjwinologfjKvqjqpqojkasjvisjvqjsakjhnqkkqh;
visjvqjsacuqhjhisojioqjkdnqqd,jaohjdxnoqhjdvqjtinoqnjiejaoidvqn;jkasjvlw
 qohlogjipqnjvlkjhqku,jdaculogjdijrqircqjsvijqodqnqhjdvqjieeltq,jgilog
dijvlkjcxotv,jaohjrqnvarkjsadtvlogjeinjvqnjiojdvqjkdnqqdfjVqjsixchjtiwq
dijvqnjlojdvqjaedqnoiiojinjqpqolog,jkldjaohjniccjvlkjtlganqddq,jdacuja
clddcq,jaohjgijasabjakjvqjvahjhioqjdvqjolgvdj qeinqfj xdjvisjhqcltlixk
ldjsixchj qjdijvapqjvlwjdvqnqjsldvjvqn!jKvqjsixchjvapqjoijnqgnqdk,join
kqqujdijrqoqdnadqjvlkjnqkqnpqjlejvqjkdlccjtvikqjdijsqanjldf

Qhoajadqjvqnj nqaueakdjiocbjvacejhnqkkqhfjDvqjwalhj nixgvdjvqnja
hqcltlixkjrnlodqhjktnascjeniwjNaixc,jqyrnqkklogjvlkjcipq,jakulogjvqnjdi
kqohjvlwjkiwqj io iok,jaohjdqcclogjvqnjdvqbjvahjeixohjdvadjwinologjdqo
dlobjsvldqjrlgkjaccjcblogjlojajnisj qklhqjClhlq'kj lgjsvldqjrlgf

Ajcqddqnjackijtawqjeniwjvqnjvxk aoh,jkablogjvqjvirqhjdij qj atujqancb
lojWantv,jaohjdvqojdvqbjsixchjgqdjnqahbjeinjdvadjzixnoqbja niahjsvltv
vqjvahjrniwlkqhjvqnjkijciog,jsvltvjvqjeqcdjoisjexccbja cqjdijaeeinh;
vqjeqcdja cqjdijdnapqcjakjrqircqjkvixch,jsldvixdjaobjdvixgvdjiejkwacc
qtioiwlqk--dvaoukjdijvlkjnqtqodjkrqtxcadliokjlojSaccjKdnqqdf

WxtvjdijvqnjkxnrnlkqjkvqjnqtqlpqhjajoidqjeniwjAni lo,jsnlddqojad
wlholgvdjeniwjdvqjtcx fjLdjsakjdijkabjgiihjwinologjdijvqn,jdijvirqjkvq
vahjkcqrdjsqcc,jdijakkxnqjvqnjiejvlkjhqpidlio,jsvltvjvqjdnxkdqhjkvqjlo
kiwqjealodqkdjwaooqnjnqdxnoqhf

AccjdvqkqjcqddqnkjsqnqjrcqaklogjdijvqnfjKvqjaoksqnqhjdvqjtvlchnqojloja
tvqqnexcjenawqjiejwloh,jrniwlklogjdvqwj io iok,jaohjtiognadxcadlogjdvqw
xriojdvqlnjvarrbjelohjiejdvqjclddcqjrlgkf

Kvqjaoksqnqhjvqnjvxk aohjsldvjenlqohcbjqpaklpqoqkk,--oidjsldvjaobjelyqh
hqklgojdijwlkcqahjvlw,jiocbj qtaxkqjaccjkqokqjiejnqacldbjvahjgioqjixd
iejvqnjcleq;jkvqjvahja aohioqhjvqnkqcejdijEadq,jaohjasaldqhjdvq
tiokq.xqotqkjsldvjlohleeqnqotqf

DijAni lo'kjoidqjkvqjwahqjoijnqrcbfjKvqjrxdjldjxohqnjTqcqkdloq'k
kdipq-clhf

QhoajsinuqhjkqpqnacjvixnkjsldvjwxtvjkrlnldfjKvqjkasjoijioqj xdjajrltdxnq
hqacqn,jsvijakuqhjvqnjlejldjsqnqjdnxqjdvadjkvqjsakjgilogja niahjdijkdxhb
lojRanlkf

Kvqjkalhjrikkl cbjkvqjwlgvd,jaohjvqjoqgidladqhjsldvjvqnjeinjkiwq
RanlklaojkdxhlqkjdijnqatvjvlwjlojdlwqjeinjdvqjviclhabjdnahqjlojHqtqw qnf

Ni qndjhlhjoidjtiwqjdvadjhabfjKvqjsakjuqqocbjhlkarrilodqhfjVqjhlhjoid
tiwqjdvqjeiccislogjhab,joinjdvqjoqydfjQatvjwinologjkvqjasiuqjsldvjvirq,
aohjqatvjolgvdjkvqjsakjajrnqbjdijhqkriohqotbfjKvqjsakjdqwrdqhjdijkqqu
vlwjixdfj xdjeanjeniwjblqchlogjdijdvqjlwrxckq,jkvqjapilhqhjaobjittaklio
svltvjwlgvdjdvnisjvqnjlojvlkjsabfjKvqjhlhjoidjgijdijWahqwilkqccqjNqlkm'k
oinjrakkj bjWahawqjCq nxo'k,jakjkvqjwlgvdjvapqjhioqjlejvqjvahjkdlccj qqo
lojWqyltif

SvqojAni lo,jioqjolgvd,jxngqhjvqnjdijhnlpqjsldvjvlw,jkvqjsqod--ixdjdi
dvqjcauq,jiojdvqjKvqccjNiahfjVlkjvinkqkjsqnqjexccjiejwqddcq,jaohjqpqoja
clddcqjxowaoagqa cqfjKvqjcluqhjdvqjnarlhjgaldjadjsvltvjdvqbjkrxojaciog,
aohjdvqj.xltu,jkvanrjkixohjiejdvqjvinkqk'jviiekjiojdvqjvanhjniahfjDvqb
hlhjoidjkdirjaobsvqnqjdijqadjinjdijhnloufjAni lojsakjoidjoqqhcqkkcb
lwrnxhqodfj xdjdvqbjadqjaohjdvqbjhnaoujsvqojdvqbjnqgaloqhjQhoa'kjclddcq
hlolog-niiw--svltvjsakjtiwranadlpqcbjqancbjlojdvqjqpqologf

LdjsakjcadqjsvqojvqjcqedjvqnfjLdjsakjgqddlogjdij qjwinqjdvaojajrakklog
svlwjsldvjAni lojdijkqqjvqnjaohj qjsldvjvqnfjVqjvahjhqdqtdqhjdvqjcadqod
kqokxacldb,jsvltvjxoeichqhjxohqnjvlkjhqcltadqjkqokqjiejvqnjoadxnq'k
nq.xlnqwqodkjcluqjajdinrlh,jdinnlh,jkqokldlpqj cikkiwf

Dvqnqjsakjoijhqkriohqotbjsvqojkvqjeqccjakcqqrjdvadjolgvd;joinjsakjdvqnq
virqjsvqojkvqjasiuqjlojdvqjwinologf




YYYPL


Dvqnqjsakjajganhqojixdjlojdvqjkx xn k;jajkwacc,jcqaebjtinoqn,jsldvja
eqsjgnqqojda cqkjxohqnjdvqjinaogqjdnqqkfjAojichjtadjkcqrdjaccjhabjiojdvq
kdioqjkdqrjlojdvqjkxo,jaohjaojichjwxcadnqkkqjkcqrdjvqnjlhcqjvixnkjasab
lojvqnjtvalnjadjdvqjirqojslohis,jdlccjkiwqjioqjvarrqoqhjdijuoitujiojioq
iejdvqjgnqqojda cqkfjKvqjvahjwlcujaohjtnqawjtvqqkqjdijkqcc,jaohj nqah
aohj xddqnfjDvqnqjsakjoijioqjsvijtixchjwauqjkxtvjqytqccqodjtieeqqjinjenb
ajtvltuqojkijgichqoj nisojakjkvqf

Dvqjrcatqjsakjdiijwihqkdjdijaddnatdjdvqjaddqodliojiejrqircqjiejeakvlio,
aohjkij.xlqdjakjdijvapqjqktarqhjdvqjoidltqjiejdvikqjlojkqantvjie
rcqakxnqjaohjhlkklradliofjQhoajvahjhlktipqnqhjldjattlhqodaccbjioqjhab
svqojdvqjvlgv- ianhjgadqjkdiihjazanfjKvqjtaxgvdjklgvdjiejajclddcqjgnqqo
da cq,j cidtvqhjsldvjdvqjtvqtuqnqhjkxoclgvdjdvadjelcdqnqhjdvnixgv
dvqj.xlpqnlogjcqapqkjipqnvqahfjSldvlojkvqjvahjeixohjdvqjkcxw qnlog
wxcadnqkkq,jdvqjhniskbjtad,jaohjajgcakkjiejwlcujsvltvjnqwlohqhjvqnjie
dvqjwlcujkvqjvahjdakdqhjlojL qnplccqf

Kvqjiedqojkdirrqhjdvqnqjhxnlogjvqnjrqnaw xcadliok;jkiwqdlwqkjdaulogja
 iiujsldvjvqn,jaohjklddlogjaojvixnjinjdsijxohqnjdvqjdnqqkjsvqojkvqjeixoh
dvqjrcatqjhqkqndqhfjIotqjinjdsltqjkvqjdiiujaj.xlqdjhlooqnjdvqnqjacioq,
vaplogjlokdnxtdqhjTqcqkdloqj qeinqvaohjdijrnqranqjoijhlooqnjadjviwqfjLd
sakjdvqjcakdjrcatqjlojdvqjtldbjsvqnqjkvqjsixchjvapqjqyrqtdqhjdijwqqdjaob
ioqjkvqjuoqsf

Kdlccjkvqjsakjoidjakdiolkvqhjsvqo,jakjkvqjsakjrandaulogjiejajwihqkd
hlooqnjcadqjlojdvqjaedqnoiio,jciiulogjlodijaojirqoj iiu,jkdniulogjdvq
tad,jsvltvjvahjwahqjenlqohkjsldvjvqn--kvqjsakjoidjgnqadcbjakdiolkvqhjdi
kqqjNi qndjtiwqjlojadjdvqjdaccjganhqojgadqf

“Ljawjhqkdloqhjdijkqqjbixjiocbj bjattlhqod,”jkvqjkalh,jkviplogjdvq
tadjieejdvqjtvalnj qklhqjvqnfjVqjsakjkxnrnlkqh,jlccjadjqakq,jacwikd
qw annakkqhjadjwqqdlogjvqnjdvxkjkijxoqyrqtdqhcbf

“Hijbixjtiwqjvqnqjiedqo?”jvqjakuqhf

“Ljacwikdjclpqjvqnq,”jkvqjkalhf

“LjxkqhjdijhnirjlojpqnbjiedqojeinjajtxrjiejTadltvq'kjgiihjtieeqqfjDvlk
lkjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjklotqjLjtawqj atuf”

“Kvq'ccj nlogjbixjajrcadq,jaohjbixjslccjkvanqjwbjhlooqnfjDvqnq'kjacsabk
qoixgvjeinjdsi--qpqojdvnqqf”jQhoajvahjlodqohqhjdij qjlohleeqnqodjaohjak
nqkqnpqhjakjvqjsvqojkvqjwqdjvlw;jkvqjvahjnqatvqhjdvqjhqdqnwloadlioj bja
ca inlixkjdnalojiejnqakiolog,jlotlhqodjdijioqjiejvqnjhqkriohqodjwiihkf
 xdjvqnjnqkicpqjwqcdqhjsvqojkvqjkasjvlwj qeinqjhqklgologjRniplhqotqjvah
cqhjvlwjlodijvqnjradvf

“Svbjvapqjbixjuqrdjasabjeniwjwq,jNi qnd?”jkvqjakuqh,jtciklogjdvqj iiu
dvadjcabjirqojxriojdvqjda cqf

“Svbjanqjbixjkijrqnkioac,jWnkfjRiodqcclqn?jSvbjhijbixjeintqjwqjdi
lhlidltjkx dqnexgqk?”jvqjqytcalwqhjsldvjkxhhqojsanwdvfj“Ljkxrrikq
dvqnq'kjoijxkqjdqcclogjbixjL'pqj qqojpqnbj xkb,jinjdvadjL'pqj qqojkltu,
injdvadjL'pqj qqojdijkqqjbixjaohjoidjeixohjbixjadjviwqfjRcqakqjcqdjwq
ieejsldvjaobjioqjiejdvqkqjqytxkqkf”

“Bixjanqjdvqjqw ihlwqodjiejkqcelkvoqkk,”jkvqjkalhfj“Bixjkapqjbixnkqce
kiwqdvlog--Ljhio'djuoisjsvad-- xdjdvqnqjlkjkiwqjkqcelkvjwidlpq,jaohjlo
kranlogjbixnkqcejbixjoqpqnjtioklhqnjeinjajwiwqodjsvadjLjdvlou,jinjvis
LjeqqcjbixnjoqgcqtdjaohjlohleeqnqotqfjLjkxrrikqjdvlkjlkjsvadjbixjsixch
taccjxosiwaocb;j xdjLjvapqjgidjlodijajva ldjiejqyrnqkklogjwbkqcefjLd
hiqko'djwaddqnjdijwq,jaohjbixjwabjdvloujwqjxosiwaocbjlejbixjcluqf”

“Oi;jLjiocbjdvloujbixjtnxqc,jakjLjkalhjdvqjidvqnjhabfjWab qjoid
lodqodlioaccbjtnxqc;j xdjbixjkqqwjdij qjeintlogjwqjlodijhlktcikxnqk
svltvjtaojnqkxcdjlojoidvlog;jakjlejbixjsixchjvapqjwqj anqjajsixohjein
dvqjrcqakxnqjiejciiulogjadjld,jsldvixdjdvqjlodqodliojinjrisqnjiejvqaclog
ldf”

“L'wjkrilclogjbixnjhlooqn,jNi qnd;joqpqnjwlohjsvadjLjkabfjBixjvapqo'd
qadqojajwinkqcf”

“Ljiocbjtawqjlojeinjajtxrjiejtieeqqf”jVlkjkqokldlpqjeatqjsakjacc
hlkelgxnqhjsldvjqytldqwqodf

“Lko'djdvlkjajhqclgvdexcjrcatq?”jkvqjnqwanuqhfj“Ljawjkijgcahjldjvak
oqpqnjatdxaccbj qqojhlktipqnqhfjLdjlkjkij.xlqd,jkijksqqd,jvqnqfjHijbix
oidltqjdvqnqjlkjktantqcbjajkixohjdij qjvqanh?jLd'kjkijixdjiejdvqjsab;
aohjajgiihjsacujeniwjdvqjtanfjVisqpqn,jLjhio'djwlohjsaculogfjLjacsabk
eqqcjkijkinnbjeinjsiwqojsvijhio'djcluqjdijsacu;jdvqbjwlkkjkijwxtv--ki
waobjnanqjclddcqjgclwrkqkjiejcleq;jaohjsqjsiwqojcqanojkijclddcqjiejcleq
iojdvqjsvicqf

“Tadltvq'kjtieeqqjlkjacsabkjvidfjLjhio'djuoisjvisjkvqjwaoagqkjld,jvqnq
lojdvqjirqojalnfjTqcqkdloq'kjtieeqqjgqdkjtichj nloglogjldjeniwjdvq
uldtvqojdijdvqjhlolog-niiwfjDvnqqjcxwrk!jVisjtaojbixjhnloujldjkijksqqd?
Dauqjkiwqjiejdvqjtnqkkjsldvjbixnjtvir;jld'kjkij ldlogjaohjtnlkrfjDvqo
dvqnq'kjdvqjahpaodagqjiej qlogja cqjdijkwiuqjsldvjbixnjtieeqqjixdjvqnqf
Ois,jlojdvqjtldb--anqo'djbixjgilogjdijkwiuq?”

“Aedqnjajsvlcq,”jvqjkalh,jcablogjajtlganjiojdvqjda cqf

“Svijgapqjldjdijbix?”jkvqjcaxgvqhf

“Lj ixgvdjldfjLjkxrrikqjL'wjgqddlogjnqtucqkk;jLj ixgvdjajsvicqj iyf”jKvq
sakjhqdqnwloqhjoidjdij qjrqnkioacjagalojaohjwauqjvlwjxotiweinda cqf

Dvqjtadjwahqjenlqohkjsldvjvlw,jaohjtclw qhjlodijvlkjcarjsvqojvqjkwiuqh
vlkjtlganfjVqjkdniuqhjvqnjklcubjexn,jaohjdacuqhjajclddcqja ixdjvqnfjVq
ciiuqhjadjQhoa'kj iiu,jsvltvjvqjvahjnqah;jaohjvqjdichjvqnjdvqjqoh,jdi
kapqjvqnjdvqjdnix cqjiejsahlogjdvnixgvjld,jvqjkalhf

Agalojvqjattiwraolqhjvqnj atujdijvqnjviwq;jaohjldjsakjaedqnjhxkujsvqo
dvqbjnqatvqhjdvqjclddcqj“rlgqio-vixkqf”jKvqjhlhjoidjakujvlwjdijnqwalo,
svltvjvqjsakjgnadqexcjein,jakjldjrqnwlddqhjvlwjdijkdabjsldvixdjdvq
hlktiweindjiej cxohqnlogjdvnixgvjaojqytxkqjsvltvjvqjvahjoijlodqodlio
iejtioklhqnlogfjVqjvqcrqhjvqnjdijclgvdjdvqjcawr;jdvqojkvqjsqodjlodijvqn
niiwjdijdauqjieejvqnjvadjaohjdij advqjvqnjeatqjaohjvaohkf

Svqojkvqjtawqj atujNi qndjsakjoidjqyawlologjdvqjrltdxnqkjaohjwagamloqk
akj qeinq;jvqjkadjieejlojdvqjkvahis,jcqaologjvlkjvqahj atujiojdvqjtvaln
akjlejlojajnqpqnlqfjQhoajclogqnqhjajwiwqodj qklhqjdvqjda cq,jannaoglog
dvqj iiukjdvqnqfjDvqojkvqjsqodjatnikkjdvqjniiwjdijsvqnqjvqjkadfjKvqj qod
ipqnjdvqjanwjiejvlkjtvalnjaohjtaccqhjvlkjoawqf

“Ni qnd,”jkvqjkalh,j“anqjbixjakcqqr?”

“Oi,”jvqjaoksqnqh,jciiulogjxrjadjvqnf

Kvqjcqaoqhjipqnjaohjulkkqhjvlw--ajkied,jtiic,jhqcltadqjulkk,jsvikq
picxrdxixkjkdlogjrqoqdnadqhjvlkjsvicqj qlog--dvqojkvqjwipqhjasabjeniw
vlwfjVqjeiccisqh,jaohjdiiujvqnjlojvlkjanwk,jzxkdjvichlogjvqnjtcikqjdi
vlwfjKvqjrxdjvqnjvaohjxrjdijvlkjeatqjaohjrnqkkqhjvlkjtvqqujagalokdjvqn
isofjDvqjatdliojsakjexccjiejcipqjaohjdqohqnoqkkfjVqjkixgvdjvqnjclrk
agalofjDvqojvqjhnqsjvqnjhisojxriojdvqjkieaj qklhqjvlwjaohjvqchjvqnjvaoh
loj idvjiejvlkf

“Oisjbixjuois,”jvqjkalh,j“oisjbixjuoisjsvadjLjvapqj qqojelgvdlogjagalokd
klotqjcakdjkxwwqnjadjGnaohjLkcq;jsvadjhnipqjwqjasabjaohjhnipqjwqj atu
agalof”

“Svbjvapqjbixj qqojelgvdlogjagalokdjld?”jkvqjakuqhfjVqnjeatqjgcisqhjsldv
kiedjclgvdkf

“Svb?j qtaxkqjbixjsqnqjoidjenqq;jbixjsqnqjCqiotqjRiodqcclqn'kjsleqfjL
tixcho'djvqcrjciplogjbixjlejbixjsqnqjdqojdlwqkjvlkjsleq;j xdjkijciogjak
LjsqodjasabjeniwjbixjaohjuqrdjasabjLjtixchjvqcrjdqcclogjbixjkif”jKvqjrxd
vqnjenqqjvaohjxrjdijvlkjkvixchqn,jaohjdvqojagalokdjvlkjtvqqu,jnx  logjld
kiedcbfjVqjulkkqhjvqnjagalofjVlkjeatqjsakjsanwjaohjecxkvqhf

“DvqnqjlojWqyltijLjsakjdvloulogjiejbixjaccjdvqjdlwq,jaohjcioglogjein
bixf”

“ xdjoidjsnldlogjdijwq,”jkvqjlodqnnxrdqhf

“Kiwqdvlogjrxdjlodijwbjvqahjdvadjbixjtanqhjeinjwq;jaohjLjcikdjwbjkqokqkf
Ljeingidjqpqnbdvlogj xdjajslchjhnqawjiejbixnjkiwqjsabj qtiwlogjwbjsleqf”

“Bixnjsleq!”

“Nqclglio,jcibacdb,jqpqnbdvlogjsixchjglpqjsabjlejiocbjbixjtanqhf”

“DvqojbixjwxkdjvapqjeingiddqojdvadjLjsakjCqiotqjRiodqcclqn'kjsleqf”

“Iv!jLjsakjhqwqodqh,jhnqawlogjiejslch,jlwrikkl cqjdvlogk,jnqtacclogjwqo
svijvahjkqdjdvqlnjslpqkjenqq,jsqjvapqjvqanhjiejkxtvjdvlogkf”

“Bqk,jsqjvapqjvqanhjiejkxtvjdvlogkf”

“Ljtawqj atujexccjiejpagxq,jwahjlodqodliokfjAohjsvqojLjgidjvqnq--”

“Svqojbixjgidjvqnqjbixjoqpqnjtawqjoqanjwq!”jKvqjsakjkdlccjtanqkklogjvlk
tvqquf

“LjnqaclmqhjsvadjajtxnjLjsakjdijhnqawjiejkxtvjajdvlog,jqpqojlejbixjvah
 qqojslcclogf”

Kvqjdiiujvlkjeatqj qdsqqojvqnjvaohkjaohjciiuqhjlodijldjakjlejkvqjsixch
oqpqnjsldvhnasjvqnjqbqkjwinqfjKvqjulkkqhjvlwjiojdvqjeinqvqah,jdvqjqbqk,
dvqjtvqquk,jaohjdvqjclrkf

“Bixjvapqj qqojajpqnb,jpqnbjeiiclkvj ib,jsakdlogjbixnjdlwqjhnqawlogjie
lwrikkl cqjdvlogkjsvqojbixjkrqaujiejWnfjRiodqcclqnjkqddlogjwqjenqq!jL
awjoijciogqnjioqjiejWnfjRiodqcclqn'kjrikkqkkliokjdijhlkrikqjiejinjoidf
LjglpqjwbkqcejsvqnqjLjtviikqfjLejvqjsqnqjdijkab,j'Vqnq,jNi qnd,jdauqjvqn
aohj qjvarrb;jkvqjlkjbixnk,'jLjkvixchjcaxgvjadjbixj idvf”

Vlkjeatqjgnqsjajclddcqjsvldqfj“Svadjhijbixjwqao?”jvqjakuqhf

DvqnqjsakjajuoitujadjdvqjhiinfjIchjTqcqkdloqjtawqjlojdijkabjdvadjWahawq
Nadlgoiccq'kjkqnpaodjvahjtiwqjanixohjdvqj atujsabjsldvjajwqkkagqjdvad
Wahawqjvahj qqojdauqojkltujaohj qggqhjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjdijgijdijvqn
lwwqhladqcbf

“Bqk,jbqk,”jkalhjQhoa,jnlklog;j“LjrniwlkqhfjDqccjvqnjbqk--dijsaldjein
wqfjL'ccjgij atujsldvjvqnf”

“Cqdjwqjsacujipqnjsldvjbix,”jieeqnqhjNi qndf

“Oi,”jkvqjkalh;j“Ljslccjgijsldvjdvqjkqnpaodf”jKvqjsqodjlodijvqnjniiwjdi
rxdjiojvqnjvad,jaohjsvqojkvqjtawqjlojagalojkvqjkadjiotqjwinqjxriojdvq
kieaj qklhqjvlwfjVqjvahjoidjkdlnnqhfjKvqjrxdjvqnjanwkja ixdjvlkjoqtuf

“Giih- b,jwbjksqqdjNi qndfjDqccjwqjgiih- bf”jVqjulkkqhjvqnjsldvjajhqgnqq
iejrakkliojsvltvjvahjoidj qeinqjqodqnqhjlodijvlkjtanqkk,jaohjkdnaloqh
vqnjdijvlwf

“Ljcipqjbix,”jkvqjsvlkrqnqh,j“iocbjbix;joijioqj xdjbixfjLdjsakjbixjsvi
asiuqjwqjcakdjkxwwqnjixdjiejajcleq-ciog,jkdxrlhjhnqawfjIv!jbixjvapqjwahq
wqjkijxovarrbjsldvjbixnjlohleeqnqotqfjIv!jLjvapqjkxeeqnqh,jkxeeqnqh!jOis
bixjanqjvqnqjsqjkvaccjcipqjqatvjidvqn,jwbjNi qndfjSqjkvaccj qjqpqnbdvlog
dijqatvjidvqnfjOidvlogjqckqjlojdvqjsinchjlkjiejaobjtiokq.xqotqfjLjwxkd
gijdijwbjenlqoh;j xdjbixjslccjsaldjeinjwq?jOijwaddqnjvisjcadq;jbixjslcc
saldjeinjwq,jNi qnd?”

“Hio'djgi;jhio'djgi!jIv!jQhoa,jkdabjsldvjwq,”jvqjrcqahqhfj“Svbjkvixch
bixjgi?jKdabjsldvjwq,jkdabjsldvjwqf”

“Ljkvaccjtiwqj atujakjkiiojakjLjtao;jLjkvaccjelohjbixjvqnqf”jKvqj xnlqh
vqnjeatqjlojvlkjoqtu,jaohjkalhjgiih- bjagalofjVqnjkqhxtdlpqjpiltq,
digqdvqnjsldvjvlkjgnqadjcipqjeinjvqn,jvahjqodvnaccqhjvlkjkqokqk,jvah
hqrnlpqhjvlwjiejqpqnbjlwrxckqj xdjdvqjcioglogjdijvichjvqnjaohjuqqrjvqnf




YYYPLL


QhoajciiuqhjlojadjdvqjhnxgjkdinqfjWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjsakjrxddlogjxr
ajwlydxnqjvlwkqce,jpqnbjtanqexccb,jhnirrlogjajnqhjcl.xlhjlodijajdlob
gcakkfjVqjsakjgnadqexcjdijQhoajeinjvaplogjtiwq;jvqnjrnqkqotqjsixchj q
ajtiweindjdijvlkjsleqfjWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjklkdqn,jsvijvahjacsabkj qqo
sldvjvqnjadjkxtvjdnblogjdlwqk,jvahjoidj qqoja cqjdijtiwqjxrjeniwjdvq
rcaodadlio,jaohjAhqcqjvahj qqojlotiokica cqjxodlcjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjki
ulohcbjrniwlkqhjdijtiwqjdijvqnfjDvqjoxnkqjvahj qqojsldvjdvqwjadjolgvd
einjdvqjrakdjsqqu,jakjkvqjclpqhjajgnqadjhlkdaotqjasabfjAohjHnfjWaohqcqd
vahj qqojtiwlogjaohjgilogjaccjdvqjaedqnoiiofjDvqbjsqnqjdvqojciiulogjein
vlwjaobjwiwqodf

Qhoajvakdqoqhjxrkdalnkj bjajrnlpadqjkdalnsabjdvadjcqhjeniwjdvqjnqanjie
dvqjkdinqjdijdvqjarandwqodkja ipqfjDvqjtvlchnqojsqnqjaccjkcqqrlogjloja
 atujniiwfjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjsakjlojdvqjkacio,jsvldvqnjkvqjvahjkdnabqh
lojvqnjkxeeqnlogjlwradlqotqfjKvqjkadjiojdvqjkiea,jtcahjlojaojawrcq
svldqjrqlgoiln,jvichlogjajvaohuqntvlqejdlgvdjlojvqnjvaohjsldvjajoqnpixk
tcxdtvfjVqnjeatqjsakjhnasojaohjrlotvqh,jvqnjksqqdj cxqjqbqkjvagganhjaoh
xooadxnacfjAccjvqnj qaxdlexcjvalnjvahj qqojhnasoj atujaohjrcaldqhfjLd
cabjlojajciogj nalhjiojdvqjkieajrlccis,jtilcqhjcluqjajgichqojkqnrqodf
Dvqjoxnkq,jajtiweinda cqjciiulogjGnleeqjsiwaojlojsvldqjarniojaohjtar,
sakjxnglogjvqnjdijnqdxnojdijvqnj qhniiwf

“Dvqnqjlkjoijxkq,jdvqnqjlkjoijxkq,”jkvqjkalhjadjiotqjdijQhoafj“Sqjwxkd
gqdjnlhjiejWaohqcqd;jvqjlkjgqddlogjdiijichjaohjtanqcqkkfjVqjkalhjvq
sixchj qjvqnqjadjvace-rakdjkqpqo;joisjldjwxkdj qjqlgvdfjKqqjsvadjdlwqjld
lk,jZikqrvloqf”

Dvqjsiwaojsakjrikkqkkqhjiejajtvqqnexcjoadxnq,jaohjnqexkqhjdijdauqjaob
kldxadliojdiijkqnlixkcb,jqkrqtlaccbjajkldxadliojsldvjsvltvjkvqjsakjki
eawlclanfjKvqjxngqhjWahawqjdijvapqjtixnagqjaohjradlqotqfj xdjWahawqjiocb
kqdjvqnjdqqdvjvanhjlodijvqnjxohqnjclr,jaohjQhoajkasjdvqjksqadjgadvqn
loj qahkjiojvqnjsvldqjeinqvqahfjAedqnjajwiwqodjinjdsijkvqjxddqnqhja
rnieixohjklgvjaohjslrqhjvqnjeatqjsldvjdvqjvaohuqntvlqejniccqhjloja
 accfjKvqjarrqanqhjqyvaxkdqhfjDvqjoxnkqjgapqjvqnjajenqkvjvaohuqntvlqe,
krnloucqhjsldvjticigoqjsadqnf

“Dvlkjlkjdiijwxtv!”jkvqjtnlqhfj“Waohqcqdjixgvdjdij qjulccqh!jSvqnqjlk
Acrviokq?jLkjldjrikkl cqjLjawjdij qja aohioqhjcluqjdvlk--oqgcqtdqhj b
qpqnbjioq?”

“Oqgcqtdqh,jlohqqh!”jqytcalwqhjdvqjoxnkqfjSako'djkvqjdvqnq?jAohjvqnqjsak
WnkfjRiodqcclqnjcqaplog,joijhix d,jajrcqakaodjqpqologjadjviwqjdijhqpidq
dijvqn?jAohjsako'djWioklqxnjNadlgoiccqjtiwlogjdvadjpqnbjlokdaodjdvnixgv
dvqjvacc?jAohjZikqrvloqjsakj.xldqjkxnqjkvqjvahjvqanhjHitdinjWaohqcqd'k
tixrqfjBqk,jdvqnqjldjsak,jhisojadjdvqjhiinf

Ahqcqjtiokqodqhjdijgij atujdijvqnjniiwfjKvqjkadjiojdvqjqhgqjiejajclddcq
cisjtixtvjoqydjdijvqnj qhf

HitdinjWaohqcqdjralhjoijaddqodliojdijWahawqjNadlgoiccq'kjxr nalhlogkfjVq
sakjattxkdiwqhjdijdvqwjadjkxtvjdlwqk,jaohjsakjdiijsqccjtioplotqhjiejvqn
cibacdbjdijhix djldf

VqjsakjgcahjdijkqqjQhoa,jaohjsaodqhjvqnjdijgijsldvjvlwjlodijdvqjkacio
aohjqodqndalojvlwfj xdjWahawqjNadlgoiccqjsixchjoidjtiokqodjdvadjQhoa
kvixchjcqapqjvqnjeinjaojlokdaodfj qdsqqojagiolmlogjwiwqodk,jkvqjtvaddqh
ajclddcq,jaohjkalhjldjdiiujvqnjwlohjieejvqnjkxeeqnlogkf

Qhoaj qgaojdijeqqcjxoqakbfjKvqjsakjkqlmqhjsldvjajpagxqjhnqahfjVqnjiso
cluqjqyrqnlqotqkjkqqwqhjeanjasab,jxonqac,jaohjiocbjvacejnqwqw qnqhfjKvq
nqtaccqhjealodcbjaojqtkdakbjiejralo,jdvqjvqapbjihinjiejtvcinieinw,ja
kdxrinjsvltvjvahjhqahqoqhjkqokadlio,jaohjaojasauqologjdijelohjajclddcq
oqsjcleqjdijsvltvjkvqjvahjglpqoj qlog,jahhqhjdijdvqjgnqadjxooxw qnqh
wxcdldxhqjiejkixckjdvadjtiwqjaohjgif

Kvqj qgaojdijslkvjkvqjvahjoidjtiwq;jvqnjrnqkqotqjsakjoidjoqtqkkanbfjKvq
wlgvdjvapqjlopqodqhjajrnqdqydjeinjkdablogjasab;jkvqjwlgvdjqpqojlopqodja
rnqdqydjoisjeinjgilogfj xdjQhoajhlhjoidjgifjSldvjaojlosanhjagiob,jsldvja
ecawlog,jixdkriuqojnqpicdjagalokdjdvqjsabkjiejOadxnq,jkvqjsldoqkkqhjdvq
ktqoqjiejdindxnqf

Kvqjsakjkdlccjkdxooqhjaohjkrqqtvcqkkjsldvjqwidliojsvqojcadqnjkvqjcqaoqh
ipqnjvqnjenlqohjdijulkkjvqnjaohjkiedcbjkabjgiih- bfjAhqcq,jrnqkklogjvqn
tvqqu,jsvlkrqnqhjlojaojqyvaxkdqhjpiltq:j“Dvloujiejdvqjtvlchnqo,jQhoafjIv
dvloujiejdvqjtvlchnqo!jNqwqw qnjdvqw!”




YYYPLLL


QhoajkdlccjeqcdjhamqhjsvqojkvqjgidjixdklhqjlojdvqjirqojalnfjDvqjHitdin'k
tixrqjvahjnqdxnoqhjeinjvlwjaohjkdiihj qeinqjdvqjrindqjtitvqnqfjKvqjhlh
oidjslkvjdijqodqnjdvqjtixrq,jaohjdichjHitdinjWaohqcqdjkvqjsixchjsacu;
kvqjsakjoidjaenalh,jaohjsixchjgijacioqfjVqjhlnqtdqhjvlkjtannlagqjdijwqqd
vlwjadjWnkfjRiodqcclqn'k,jaohjvqjkdandqhjdijsacujviwqjsldvjvqnf

Xr--asabjxr,jipqnjdvqjoannisjkdnqqdj qdsqqojdvqjdaccjvixkqk,jdvqjkdank
sqnqj camlogfjDvqjalnjsakjwlchjaohjtanqkklog,j xdjtiicjsldvjdvqj nqadv
iejkrnlogjaohjdvqjolgvdfjDvqbjsacuqhjkciscb,jdvqjHitdinjsldvjajvqapb,
wqakxnqhjdnqahjaohjvlkjvaohkj qvlohjvlw;jQhoa,jlojaoja kqod-wlohqhjsab,
akjkvqjvahjsacuqhjioqjolgvdjadjGnaohjLkcq,jakjlejvqnjdvixgvdkjvahjgioq
avqahjiejvqnjaohjkvqjsakjkdnlplogjdijipqndauqjdvqwf

“Bixjkvixcho'djvapqj qqojdvqnq,jWnkfjRiodqcclqn,”jvqjkalhfj“Dvadjsakjoi
rcatqjeinjbixfjAhqcqjlkjexccjiejsvlwkjadjkxtvjdlwqkfjDvqnqjsqnqjajhimqo
siwqojkvqjwlgvdjvapqjvahjsldvjvqn,jxolwrnqkklioa cqjsiwqofjLjeqcdjdvad
ldjsakjtnxqc,jtnxqcfjBixjkvixcho'djvapqjgioqf”

“Iv,jsqcc!”jkvqjaoksqnqh,jlohleeqnqodcbfj“Ljhio'djuoisjdvadjldjwaddqnk
aedqnjaccfjIoqjvakjdijdvloujiejdvqjtvlchnqojkiwqjdlwqjinjidvqn;jdvq
kiioqnjdvqj qddqnf”

“SvqojlkjCqiotqjtiwlogj atu?”

“.xldqjkiiofjKiwqjdlwqjlojWantvf”

“Aohjbixjanqjgilogja niah?”

“Rqnvark--oi,jLjawjoidjgilogfjL'wjoidjgilogjdij qjeintqhjlodijhilog
dvlogkfjLjhio'djsaodjdijgija niahfjLjsaodjdij qjcqdjacioqfjOi ihbjvak
aobjnlgvd--qytqrdjtvlchnqo,jrqnvark--aohjqpqojdvqo,jldjkqqwkjdijwq--in
ldjhlhjkqqw--”jKvqjeqcdjdvadjvqnjkrqqtvjsakjpiltlogjdvqjlotivqnqotbjie
vqnjdvixgvdk,jaohjkdirrqhja nxrdcbf

“Dvqjdnix cqjlk,”jklgvqhjdvqjHitdin,jgnakrlogjvqnjwqaologjlodxldlpqcb,
“dvadjbixdvjlkjglpqojxrjdijlccxkliokfjLdjkqqwkjdij qjajrniplkliojie
Oadxnq;jajhqtibjdijkqtxnqjwidvqnkjeinjdvqjnatqfjAohjOadxnqjdauqkjoi
attixodjiejwinacjtiokq.xqotqk,jiejan ldnanbjtiohldliokjsvltvjsqjtnqadq,
aohjsvltvjsqjeqqcji clgqhjdijwalodalojadjaobjtikdf”

“Bqk,”jkvqjkalhfj“Dvqjbqankjdvadjanqjgioqjkqqwjcluqjhnqawk--lejioqjwlgvd
gijiojkcqqrlogjaohjhnqawlog-- xdjdijsauqjxrjaohjeloh--iv!jsqcc!jrqnvark
ldjlkj qddqnjdijsauqjxrjaedqnjacc,jqpqojdijkxeeqn,jnadvqnjdvaojdijnqwalo
ajhxrqjdijlccxkliokjaccjioq'kjcleqf”

“Ldjkqqwkjdijwq,jwbjhqanjtvlch,”jkalhjdvqjHitdinjadjrandlog,jvichlogjvqn
vaoh,j“bixjkqqwjdijwqjdij qjlojdnix cqfjLjawjoidjgilogjdijakujeinjbixn
tioelhqotqfjLjslccjiocbjkabjdvadjlejqpqnjbixjeqqcjwipqhjdijglpqjldjdi
wq,jrqnvarkjLjwlgvdjvqcrjbixfjLjuoisjLjsixchjxohqnkdaohfjAohjLjdqccjbix
dvqnqjanqjoidjwaobjsvijsixch--oidjwaob,jwbjhqanf”

“KiwqjsabjLjhio'djeqqcjwipqhjdijkrqaujiejdvlogkjdvadjdnix cqjwqfjHio'd
dvloujLjawjxognadqexcjinjdvadjLjhio'djarrnqtladqjbixnjkbwradvbfjDvqnq
anqjrqnlihkjiejhqkriohqotbjaohjkxeeqnlogjsvltvjdauqjrikkqkkliojiejwqf
 xdjLjhio'djsaodjaobdvlogj xdjwbjisojsabfjDvadjlkjsaodlogjajgiihjhqac,
iejtixnkq,jsvqojbixjvapqjdijdnawrcqjxriojdvqjclpqk,jdvqjvqandk,jdvq
rnqzxhltqkjiejidvqnk-- xdjoijwaddqn--kdlcc,jLjkvixcho'djsaodjdijdnawrcq
xriojdvqjclddcqjclpqkfjIv!jLjhio'djuoisjsvadjL'wjkablog,jHitdinfjGiih
olgvdfjHio'dj cawqjwqjeinjaobdvlogf”

“Bqk,jLjslccj cawqjbixjlejbixjhio'djtiwqjaohjkqqjwqjkiiofjSqjslccjdacu
iejdvlogkjbixjoqpqnjvapqjhnqawdjiejdaculogja ixdj qeinqfjLdjslccjhi
xkj idvjgiihfjLjhio'djsaodjbixjdij cawqjbixnkqce,jsvadqpqnjtiwqkfjGiih
olgvd,jwbjtvlchf”

Kvqjcqdjvqnkqcejlojadjdvqjgadq,j xdjlokdqahjiejqodqnlogjkvqjkadjxrio
dvqjkdqrjiejdvqjrintvfjDvqjolgvdjsakj.xlqdjaohjkiidvlogfjAccjdvqjdqanlog
qwidliojiejdvqjcakdjeqsjvixnkjkqqwqhjdijeaccjasabjeniwjvqnjcluqja
kiw qn,jxotiweinda cqjganwqod,jsvltvjkvqjvahj xdjdijciikqojdij qjnlhjief
Kvqjsqodj atujdijdvadjvixnj qeinqjAhqcqjvahjkqodjeinjvqn;jaohjvqnjkqokqk
ulohcqhjaenqkvjlojdvloulogjiejNi qnd'kjsinhk,jdvqjrnqkkxnqjiejvlkjanwk,
aohjdvqjeqqclogjiejvlkjclrkjxriojvqnjisofjKvqjtixchjrltdxnqjadjdvad
wiwqodjoijgnqadqnj clkkjiojqandvjdvaojrikkqkkliojiejdvqj qcipqhjioqf
VlkjqyrnqkkliojiejcipqjvahjacnqahbjglpqojvlwjdijvqnjlojrandfjSvqojkvq
dvixgvdjdvadjvqjsakjdvqnqjadjvaoh,jsaldlogjeinjvqn,jkvqjgnqsjoxw jsldv
dvqjlodiyltadliojiejqyrqtdaotbfjLdjsakjkijcadq;jvqjsixchj qjakcqqr
rqnvarkfjKvqjsixchjasauqojvlwjsldvjajulkkfjKvqjvirqhjvqjsixchj qjakcqqr
dvadjkvqjwlgvdjanixkqjvlwjsldvjvqnjtanqkkqkf

Kdlcc,jkvqjnqwqw qnqhjAhqcq'kjpiltqjsvlkrqnlog,j“Dvloujiejdvqjtvlchnqo;
dvloujiejdvqwf”jKvqjwqaodjdijdvloujiejdvqw;jdvadjhqdqnwloadliojvah
hnlpqojlodijvqnjkixcjcluqjajhqadvjsixoh-- xdjoidjdi-olgvdfjDi-winnis
sixchj qjdlwqjdijdvloujiejqpqnbdvlogf

Ni qndjsakjoidjsaldlogjeinjvqnjlojdvqjclddcqjrancinfjVqjsakjoisvqnqjad
vaohfjDvqjvixkqjsakjqwrdbfj xdjvqjvahjktnascqhjiojajrlqtqjiejrarqnjdvad
cabjlojdvqjcawrclgvd:

“LjcipqjbixfjGiih- b-- qtaxkqjLjcipqjbixf”

QhoajgnqsjealodjsvqojkvqjnqahjdvqjsinhkfjKvqjsqodjaohjkadjiojdvqjkieaf
Dvqojkvqjkdnqdtvqhjvqnkqcejixdjdvqnq,joqpqnjxddqnlogjajkixohfjKvqjhlh
oidjkcqqrfjKvqjhlhjoidjgijdij qhfjDvqjcawrjkrxddqnqhjaohjsqodjixdfjKvq
sakjkdlccjasauqjlojdvqjwinolog,jsvqojTqcqkdloqjxocituqhjdvqjuldtvqojhiin
aohjtawqjlojdijclgvdjdvqjelnqf




YYYLY


Pltdin,jsldvjvawwqnjaohjoalckjaohjktnarkjiejktaodclog,jsakjradtvlogja
tinoqnjiejioqjiejdvqjgaccqnlqkfjWanlq.xldajkadjoqanj b,jhaogclogjvqn
cqgk,jsadtvlogjvlwjsinu,jaohjvaohlogjvlwjoalckjeniwjdvqjdiic- iyfjDvq
kxojsakj qadlogjhisojxriojdvqwfjDvqjglncjvahjtipqnqhjvqnjvqahjsldvjvqn
arniojeichqhjlodijajk.xanqjrahfjDvqbjvahj qqojdaculogjeinjaojvixnjin
winqfjKvqjsakjoqpqnjdlnqhjiejvqanlogjPltdinjhqktnl qjdvqjhlooqnjadjWnkf
Riodqcclqn'kfjVqjqyaggqnadqhjqpqnbjhqdalc,jwaulogjldjarrqanjajpqnlda cq
CxtxccqaojeqakdfjDvqjecisqnkjsqnqjlojdx k,jvqjkalhfjDvqjtvawragoqjsak
.xaeeqhjeniwjvxgqjgichqojgi cqdkfjPqoxkjnlklogjeniwjdvqjeiawjtixchjvapq
rnqkqodqhjoijwinqjqodnaotlogjajkrqtdatcqjdvaojWnkfjRiodqcclqn,j camlog
sldvj qaxdbjaohjhlawiohkjadjdvqjvqahjiejdvqj ianh,jsvlcqjdvqjidvqnjsiwqo
sqnqjaccjiejdvqwjbixdvexcjvixnlk,jrikkqkkqhjiejlotiwrana cqjtvanwkfjKvq
gidjldjlodijvqnjvqahjdvadjPltdinjsakjlojcipqjsldvjWnkfjRiodqcclqn,jaoh
vqjgapqjvqnjqpaklpqjaoksqnk,jenawqhjkijakjdijtioelnwjvqnj qclqefjKvq
gnqsjkxccqojaohjtnlqhjajclddcq,jdvnqadqologjdijgijieejaohjcqapqjvlwjdi
vlkjeloqjcahlqkfjDvqnqjsqnqjajhimqojwqojtnambja ixdjvqnjadjdvqjTvqolqnq;
aohjklotqjldjsakjdvqjeakvliojdij qjlojcipqjsldvjwannlqhjrqircq,jsvb,jkvq
tixchjnxojasabjaobjdlwqjkvqjcluqhjdijOqsjIncqaokjsldvjTqcloa'kjvxk aohf

Tqcloa'kjvxk aohjsakjajeiic,jajtisanh,jaohjajrlg,jaohjdijrnipqjldjdi
vqn,jPltdinjlodqohqhjdijvawwqnjvlkjvqahjlodijajzqccbjdvqjoqydjdlwqjvq
qotixodqnqhjvlwfjDvlkjakkxnaotqjsakjpqnbjtiokiclogjdijWanlq.xldafjKvq
hnlqhjvqnjqbqk,jaohjgnqsjtvqqnexcjadjdvqjrnikrqtdf

Dvqbjsqnqjkdlccjdaculogjiejdvqjhlooqnjaohjdvqjaccxnqwqodkjiejtldbjcleq
svqojWnkfjRiodqcclqnjvqnkqcejkclrrqhjanixohjdvqjtinoqnjiejdvqjvixkqfjDvq
dsijbixogkdqnkjkdabqhjhxw jsldvjawamqwqodj qeinqjsvadjdvqbjtioklhqnqh
dij qjaojarranldliofj xdjldjsakjnqaccbjkvqjlojecqkvjaohj ciih,jciiulog
dlnqhjaohjajclddcqjdnapqc-kdaloqhf

“Ljsacuqhjxrjeniwjdvqjsvane,”jkvqjkalh,j“aohjvqanhjdvqjvawwqnlogfjL
kxrrikqhjldjsakjbix,jwqohlogjdvqjrintvfjLd'kjajgiihjdvlogfjLjsakjacsabk
dnlrrlogjipqnjdvikqjciikqjrcaoukjcakdjkxwwqnfjVisjhnqanbjaohjhqkqndqh
qpqnbdvlogjciiuk!”

LdjdiiujPltdinjkiwqjclddcqjdlwqjdijtiwrnqvqohjdvadjkvqjvahjtiwqjlo
 qaxhqcqd'kjcxggqn,jdvadjkvqjvahjtiwqjacioq,jaohjeinjoijrxnrikqj xdjdi
nqkdf

“Dvqnq'kjoidvlogjelyqhjxrjbqd,jbixjkqqfjL'ccjglpqjbixjwbjniiw;jld'kjdvq
iocbjrcatqf”

“Aobjtinoqnjslccjhi,”jkvqjakkxnqhjvlwf

“AohjlejbixjtaojkdaohjRvlciwqc'kjtiiulog,”jvqjsqodjio,j“dvixgvjLjwlgvd
dnbjdijgqdjvqnjwidvqnjsvlcqjbixjanqjvqnqfjHijbixjdvloujkvqjsixchjtiwq?”
jdxnologjdijWanlq.xldaf

Wanlq.xldajdvixgvdjdvadjrqnvarkjRvlciwqc'kjwidvqnjwlgvdjtiwqjeinjajeqs
habk,jaohjwioqbjqoixgvf

 qvichlogjWnkfjRiodqcclqnjwauqjvqnjarrqanaotq,jdvqjglncjvahjadjiotq
kxkrqtdqhjajcipqnk'jnqohqmpixkfj xdjPltdin'kjakdiolkvwqodjsakjki
gqoxloq,jaohjWnkfjRiodqcclqn'kjlohleeqnqotqjkijarranqod,jdvadjdvq
hlkdxn logjoidliojhlhjoidjcihgqjciogjlojvqnj nalofjKvqjtiodqwrcadqhjsldv
dvqjgnqadqkdjlodqnqkdjdvlkjsiwaojsvijgapqjdvqjwikdjkxwrdxixkjhlooqnkjlo
Awqnlta,jaohjsvijvahjaccjdvqjwqojlojOqsjIncqaokjadjvqnjeqqdf

“Svadjdlwqjslccjbixjvapqjhlooqn?”jakuqhjQhoafj“L'wjpqnbjvxognb;j xd
hio'djgqdjaobdvlogjqydnaf”

“L'ccjvapqjldjnqahbjlojclddcqjinjoijdlwq,”jvqjkalh,j xkdclogjaohjratulog
asabjvlkjdiickfj“Bixjwabjgijdijwbjniiwjdij nxkvjxrjaohjnqkdjbixnkqcef
Wanlq.xldajslccjkvisjbixf”

“Dvaoujbix,”jkalhjQhoafj“ xd,jhijbixjuois,jLjvapqjajoidliojdijgijhisojdi
dvqj qatvjaohjdauqjajgiihjsakvjaohjqpqojajclddcqjkslw,j qeinqjhlooqn?”

“Dvqjsadqnjlkjdiijtich!”jdvqbj idvjqytcalwqhfj“Hio'djdvloujiejldf”

“Sqcc,jLjwlgvdjgijhisojaohjdnb--hlrjwbjdiqkjlofjSvb,jldjkqqwkjdijwqjdvq
kxojlkjvidjqoixgvjdijvapqjsanwqhjdvqjpqnbjhqrdvkjiejdvqjitqaofjTixchjbix
gqdjwqjajtixrcqjiejdisqck?jL'hj qddqnjgijnlgvdjasab,jkijakjdij qj atujlo
dlwqfjLdjsixchj qjajclddcqjdiijtvlccbjlejLjsaldqhjdlccjdvlkjaedqnoiiof”

Wanlq.xldajnaojipqnjdijPltdin'kjniiw,jaohjnqdxnoqhjsldvjkiwqjdisqck,
svltvjkvqjgapqjdijQhoaf

“Ljvirqjbixjvapqjelkvjeinjhlooqn,”jkalhjQhoa,jakjkvqjkdandqhjdijsacu
asab;j“ xdjhio'djhijaobdvlogjqydnajlejbixjvapqo'df”

“NxojaohjelohjRvlciwqc'kjwidvqn,”jPltdinjlokdnxtdqhjdvqjglncfj“L'cc
gijdijdvqjuldtvqojaohjkqqjsvadjLjtaojhifj bjGlwwlob!jSiwqojvapqjoi
tioklhqnadlio!jKvqjwlgvdjvapqjkqodjwqjsinhf”

Qhoajsacuqhjiojhisojdijdvqj qatvjnadvqnjwqtvaoltaccb,joidjoidltlog
aobdvlogjkrqtlacjqytqrdjdvadjdvqjkxojsakjvidfjKvqjsakjoidjhsqcclogjxrio
aobjrandltxcanjdnalojiejdvixgvdfjKvqjvahjhioqjaccjdvqjdvloulogjsvltvjsak
oqtqkkanbjaedqnjNi qndjsqodjasab,jsvqojkvqjcabjasauqjxriojdvqjkieajdlcc
winologf

Kvqjvahjkalhjipqnjaohjipqnjdijvqnkqce:j“Di-habjldjlkjAni lo;jdi-winnis
ldjslccj qjkiwqjioqjqckqfjLdjwauqkjoijhleeqnqotqjdijwq,jldjhiqko'd
waddqnja ixdjCqiotqjRiodqcclqn-- xdjNaixcjaohjQdlqooq!”jKvqjxohqnkdiih
oisjtcqancbjsvadjkvqjvahjwqaodjciogjagijsvqojkvqjkalhjdijAhqcq
Nadlgoiccqjdvadjkvqjsixchjglpqjxrjdvqjxoqkkqodlac,j xdjkvqjsixchjoqpqn
katnleltqjvqnkqcejeinjvqnjtvlchnqof

Hqkriohqotbjvahjtiwqjxriojvqnjdvqnqjlojdvqjsauqexcjolgvd,jaohjvahjoqpqn
cledqhfjDvqnqjsakjoijioqjdvlogjlojdvqjsinchjdvadjkvqjhqklnqhfjDvqnq
sakjoijvxwaoj qlogjsviwjkvqjsaodqhjoqanjvqnjqytqrdjNi qnd;jaohjkvqjqpqo
nqaclmqhjdvadjdvqjhabjsixchjtiwqjsvqojvq,jdii,jaohjdvqjdvixgvdjie
vlwjsixchjwqcdjixdjiejvqnjqylkdqotq,jcqaplogjvqnjacioqfjDvqjtvlchnqo
arrqanqhj qeinqjvqnjcluqjaodagiolkdkjsvijvahjipqntiwqjvqn;jsvijvah
ipqnrisqnqhjaohjkixgvdjdijhnagjvqnjlodijdvqjkixc'kjkcapqnbjeinjdvqjnqkd
iejvqnjhabkfj xdjkvqjuoqsjajsabjdijqcxhqjdvqwfjKvqjsakjoidjdvloulogjie
dvqkqjdvlogkjsvqojkvqjsacuqhjhisojdijdvqj qatvf

DvqjsadqnjiejdvqjGxcejkdnqdtvqhjixdj qeinqjvqn,jgcqawlogjsldvjdvq
wlccliojclgvdkjiejdvqjkxofjDvqjpiltqjiejdvqjkqajlkjkqhxtdlpq,joqpqn
tqaklog,jsvlkrqnlog,jtcawinlog,jwxnwxnlog,jlopldlogjdvqjkixcjdijsaohqn
loja bkkqkjiejkicldxhqfjAccjaciogjdvqjsvldqj qatv,jxrjaohjhiso,jdvqnq
sakjoijclplogjdvlogjlojklgvdfjAj lnhjsldvjaj niuqojslogjsakj qadlog
dvqjalnja ipq,jnqqclog,jecxddqnlog,jtlntclogjhlka cqhjhiso,jhisojdijdvq
sadqnf

Qhoajvahjeixohjvqnjichj advlogjkxldjkdlccjvaoglog,jeahqh,jxriojldk
attxkdiwqhjrqgf

Kvqjrxdjldjio,jcqaplogjvqnjtcidvlogjlojdvqj adv-vixkqfj xdjsvqojkvq
sakjdvqnqj qklhqjdvqjkqa,ja kicxdqcbjacioq,jkvqjtakdjdvqjxorcqakaod,
rnltulogjganwqodkjeniwjvqn,jaohjeinjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjlojvqnjcleqjkvqjkdiih
oauqhjlojdvqjirqojaln,jadjdvqjwqntbjiejdvqjkxo,jdvqj nqqmqjdvadj qad
xriojvqn,jaohjdvqjsapqkjdvadjlopldqhjvqnf

Visjkdnaogqjaohjasexcjldjkqqwqhjdijkdaohjoauqhjxohqnjdvqjkub!jvis
hqcltlixk!jKvqjeqcdjcluqjkiwqjoqs- inojtnqadxnq,jirqologjldkjqbqkjloja
eawlclanjsinchjdvadjldjvahjoqpqnjuoisof

Dvqjeiawbjsapqcqdkjtxncqhjxrjdijvqnjsvldqjeqqd,jaohjtilcqhjcluqjkqnrqodk
a ixdjvqnjaoucqkfjKvqjsacuqhjixdfjDvqjsadqnjsakjtvlcc,j xdjkvqjsacuqh
iofjDvqjsadqnjsakjhqqr,j xdjkvqjcledqhjvqnjsvldqj ihbjaohjnqatvqh
ixdjsldvjajciog,jksqqrlogjkdniuqfjDvqjdixtvjiejdvqjkqajlkjkqokxixk,
qoeichlogjdvqj ihbjlojldkjkied,jtcikqjqw natqf

KvqjsqodjiojaohjiofjKvqjnqwqw qnqhjdvqjolgvdjkvqjksawjeanjixd,jaoh
nqtaccqhjdvqjdqnninjdvadjkqlmqhjvqnjadjdvqjeqanjiej qlogjxoa cqjdi
nqgalojdvqjkvinqfjKvqjhlhjoidjciiuj atujois,j xdjsqodjiojaohjio,
dvloulogjiejdvqj cxq-gnakkjwqahisjdvadjkvqjvahjdnapqnkqhjsvqojajclddcq
tvlch,j qclqplogjdvadjldjvahjoij qgloologjaohjoijqohf

Vqnjanwkjaohjcqgkjsqnqjgnislogjdlnqhf

KvqjdvixgvdjiejCqiotqjaohjdvqjtvlchnqofjDvqbjsqnqjajrandjiejvqnjcleqf
 xdjdvqbjoqqhjoidjvapqjdvixgvdjdvadjdvqbjtixchjrikkqkkjvqn,j ihbjaoh
kixcfjVisjWahqwilkqccqjNqlkmjsixchjvapqjcaxgvqh,jrqnvarkjkoqqnqh,jlejkvq
uoqs!j“Aohjbixjtaccjbixnkqcejaojandlkd!jSvadjrnqdqokliok,jWahawq!jDvq
andlkdjwxkdjrikkqkkjdvqjtixnagqixkjkixcjdvadjhanqkjaohjhqelqkf”

Qyvaxkdliojsakjrnqkklogjxriojaohjipqnrisqnlogjvqnf

“Giih- b-- qtaxkqjLjcipqjbixf”jVqjhlhjoidjuois;jvqjhlhjoidjxohqnkdaohf
VqjsixchjoqpqnjxohqnkdaohfjRqnvarkjHitdinjWaohqcqdjsixchjvapqjxohqnkdiih
lejkvqjvahjkqqojvlw-- xdjldjsakjdiijcadq;jdvqjkvinqjsakjeanj qvlohjvqn,
aohjvqnjkdnqogdvjsakjgioqf

Kvqjciiuqhjlodijdvqjhlkdaotq,jaohjdvqjichjdqnninjecawqhjxrjeinjao
lokdaod,jdvqojkaoujagalofjQhoajvqanhjvqnjeadvqn'kjpiltqjaohjvqnjklkdqn
Wanganqd'kfjKvqjvqanhjdvqj anulogjiejaojichjhigjdvadjsakjtvaloqhjdijdvq
kbtawinqjdnqqfjDvqjkrxnkjiejdvqjtapacnbjieeltqnjtcaogqhjakjvqjsacuqh
atnikkjdvqjrintvfjDvqnqjsakjdvqjvxwjiej qqk,jaohjdvqjwxkubjihinjiejrlouk
elccqhjdvqjalnf




*****




 QBIOHjDVQj ABIX


Dvqj abixjtxnpqhjcluqjajtnqktqodjanixohjdvqjrilodjiejcaohjiojsvltvjCa
Eiccq'kjta lojkdiihfj qdsqqojdvqjkdnqawjaohjdvqjvxdjcabjaj lgja aohioqh
elqch,jsvqnqjtaddcqjsqnqjrakdxnqhjsvqojdvqj abixjkxrrclqhjdvqwjsldv
sadqnjqoixgvfjDvnixgvjdvqjsiihkjdvadjkrnqahj atujlodijxouoisojnqgliok
dvqjsiwaojvahjhnasojaojlwagloanbjcloq,jaohjrakdjdvlkjtlntcqjkvqjoqpqn
kdqrrqhfjDvlkjsakjdvqjeinwjiejvqnjiocbjwaolaf

Kvqjsakjoisjajcangq,jgaxodj catujsiwao,jrakdjdvlndb-elpqfjVqnjnqacjoawq
sakjZat.xqcloq,j xdjqpqnbjioqjiojdvqjrcaodadliojtaccqhjvqnjCajEiccq,
 qtaxkqjlojtvlchviihjkvqjvahj qqojenlgvdqoqhjcldqnaccbj“ixdjiejvqn
kqokqk,”jaohjvahjoqpqnjsviccbjnqgaloqhjdvqwf

Ldjsakjsvqojdvqnqjvahj qqojkulnwlkvlogjaohjkvanrkviidlogjaccjhabjlojdvq
siihkfjQpqologjsakjoqanjsvqojR'dldjWaldnq,j catujsldvjrishqnjaohjtnlwkio
sldvj ciih,jvahjkdaggqnqhjlodijdvqjta lojiejZat.xqcloq'kjwidvqn,jvlk
rxnkxqnkjtcikqjadjvlkjvqqckfjDvqjklgvdjvahjkdxooqhjvqnjtvlchlkvjnqakiof

Kvqjhsqcdjacioqjlojvqnjkicldanbjta lo,jeinjdvqjnqkdjiejdvqj.xandqnkjvah
ciogjklotqj qqojnqwipqhj qbiohjvqnjklgvdjaohjuoiscqhgqfjKvqjvahjwinq
rvbkltacjkdnqogdvjdvaojwikdjwqo,jaohjwahqjvqnjradtvjiejtiddiojaohjtino
aohjdi attijcluqjdvqj qkdjiejdvqwfj xdjiejdvqjsinchj qbiohjdvqj abixjkvq
vahjciogjuoisojoidvlog,jkapqjsvadjvqnjwin lhjeaotbjtiotqlpqhf

Rqircqjadj qcclkklwqjvahjgnisojxkqhjdijvqnjaohjvqnjsab,jaohjdvqbjdvixgvd
oidvlogjiejldfjQpqojsvqoj“IchjWlk'”jhlqh,jdvqbjhlhjoidjsiohqnjdvadjCa
Eiccqjvahjoidjtnikkqhjdvqj abix,j xdjvahjkdiihjxriojvqnjklhqjiejld,
salclogjaohjcawqodlogf

R'dldjWaldnqjsakjoisjdvqjisoqnjiej qcclkklwqfjVqjsakjajwlhhcq-agqhjwao,
sldvjajeawlcbjiej qaxdlexcjhaxgvdqnkja ixdjvlw,jaohjajclddcqjkiojsviwjCa
Eiccqjcipqhjakjlejvqjvahj qqojvqnjisofjKvqjtaccqhjvlwjTvqnl,jaohjkijhlh
qpqnbjioqjqckqj qtaxkqjkvqjhlhf

Oioqjiejdvqjglnckjvahjqpqnj qqojdijvqnjsvadjTvqnljsakfjDvqbjvahjqatv
aohjaccjcipqhjdij qjsldvjvqn,jaohjdijclkdqojdijvqnjsiohnixkjkdinlqkjie
dvlogkjdvadjacsabkjvarrqoqhj“bioha,j qbio'jhqj abixf”

 xdjoioqjiejdvqwjvahjkdniuqhjvqnj catujvaohj.xldqjakjTvqnljhlh,join
nqkdqhjdvqlnjvqahkjagalokdjvqnjuoqqjkijtioelhlogcb,joinjeaccqojakcqqrjlo
vqnjanwkjakjvqjxkqhjdijhifjEinjTvqnljvanhcbjhlhjkxtvjdvlogkjois,jklotq
vqjvahj qtiwqjdvqjrnixhjrikkqkkinjiejajgxo,jaohjvahjvahjvlkj catujtxnck
txdjieef

Dvadjkxwwqn--dvqjkxwwqnjTvqnljgapqjCajEiccqjdsij catujtxnckjdlqhjsldv
ajuoidjiejnqhjnl  io--dvqjsadqnjnaojkijcisjlojdvqj abixjdvadjqpqojdvq
clddcqjtvlchnqojadj qcclkklwqjsqnqja cqjdijtnikkjldjiojeiid,jaohjdvq
taddcqjsqnqjkqodjdijrakdxnqjhisoj bjdvqjnlpqnfjCajEiccqjsakjkinnbjsvqo
dvqbjsqnqjgioq,jeinjkvqjcipqhjdvqkqjhxw jtiwraoliokjsqcc,jaohjcluqhjdi
eqqcjdvadjdvqbjsqnqjdvqnq,jaohjdijvqanjdvqwj nisklogj bjolgvdjxrjdijvqn
isojqotcikxnqf

LdjsakjKadxnhabjaedqnoiio,jsvqojdvqjelqchkjsqnqjhqkqndqhfjDvqjwqojvah
ecituqhjdijajoqlgv inlogjplccagqjdijhijdvqlnjsqqu'kjdnahlog,jaohjdvq
siwqojsqnqjittxrlqhjsldvjvixkqvichjaeealnk,--CajEiccqjakjsqccjakjdvq
idvqnkfjLdjsakjdvqojkvqjwqohqhjaohjsakvqhjvqnjvaohexcjiejtcidvqk,
ktixnqhjvqnjvixkq,jaohjhlhjvqnj aulogf

LojdvlkjcakdjqwrcibwqodjkvqjoqpqnjeingidjTvqnlfjDi-habjkvqjvahjeakvlioqh
tni.xlgoicqkjiejdvqjwikdjeaodakdltjaohjaccxnlogjkvarqkjeinjvlwfjKijsvqo
kvqjkasjdvqj ibjtiwqjdnxhglogjatnikkjdvqjichjelqchjsldvjvlkjgcqawlog
clddcqjoqsjnlecqjiojvlkjkvixchqn,jkvqjtaccqhjixdjgabcbjdijvlw,j“Tvqnl!
Tvqnl!”

 xdjTvqnljhlhjoidjoqqhjdvqjkxwwiok,jeinjvqjsakjtiwlogjkdnalgvdjdijvqnf
Vlkjrituqdkjaccj xcgqhjixdjsldvjacwiohkjaohjnalklokjaohjaojinaogqjdvad
vqjvahjkqtxnqhjeinjvqnjeniwjdvqjpqnbjeloqjhlooqnjsvltvjvahj qqojglpqo
dvadjhabjxrjadjvlkjeadvqn'kjvixkqf

Vqjsakjajkxoob-eatqhjbixogkdqnjiejdqofjSvqojvqjvahjqwrdlqhjvlkjrituqdk,
CajEiccqjraddqhjvlkjnixohjnqhjtvqqu,jslrqhjvlkjkilcqhjvaohkjiojvqn
arnio,jaohjkwiidvqhjvlkjvalnfjDvqojkvqjsadtvqhjvlwjak,jsldvjvlkjtauqk
lojvlkjvaoh,jvqjtnikkqhjvqnjkdnlrjiejtiddioj atujiejdvqjta lo,jaoh
hlkarrqanqhjlodijdvqjsiihf

Vqjvahj iakdqhjiejdvqjdvlogkjvqjsakjgilogjdijhijsldvjvlkjgxojixdjdvqnqf

“Bixjdvloujdvqbjgidjrcqodbjhqqnjlojdvqjsiih,jCajEiccq?”jvqjvahjlo.xlnqh,
sldvjdvqjtactxcadlogjalnjiejaojqyrqnlqotqhjvxodqnf

“Oio,joio!”jdvqjsiwaojcaxgvqhfj“Hio'djbixjciiujei'joijhqqn,jTvqnlfjHad'k
diij lgfj xdjbixj nlogjCajEiccqjioqjgiihjeadjk.xlnnqcjei'jvqnjhlooqn
di-winnis,jao'jkvqjgilo'j qjkadlkel'f”

“Ioqjk.xlnnqcjalo'djaj ldqfjL'ccj nlogjbixjwi'j'aojioq,jCajEiccq,”jvq
vahj iakdqhjriwrixkcbjakjvqjsqodjasabf

Svqojdvqjsiwao,jaojvixnjcadqn,jvqanhjdvqjnqrindjiejdvqj ib'kjnlecqjtcikq
dijdvqjsiih'kjqhgq,jkvqjsixchjvapqjdvixgvdjoidvlogjiejldjlejajkvanrjtnb
iejhlkdnqkkjvahjoidjeiccisqhjdvqjkixohf

Kvqjsldvhnqsjvqnjanwkjeniwjdvqjdx jiejkxhkjlojsvltvjdvqbjvahj qqo
rcxogqh,jhnlqhjdvqwjxriojvqnjarnio,jaohjakj.xltucbjakjvqnjdnqw clog
clw kjsixchj qanjvqn,jvxnnlqhjdijdvqjkridjsvqotqjdvqjiwloixkjnqrindjvah
tiwqf

LdjsakjakjkvqjeqanqhfjDvqnqjkvqjeixohjTvqnljkdnqdtvqhjxriojdvqjgnixoh,
sldvjvlkjnlecqj qklhqjvlwfjVqjwiaoqhjrldqixkcb:--

“L'wjhqah,jCajEiccq!jL'wjhqah!jL'wjgioq!”

“Oio,joio!”jkvqjqytcalwqhjnqkicxdqcb,jakjkvqjuoqcdj qklhqjvlwfj“Rxdjbix'
anwj'nixo'jCajEiccq'kjoauq,jTvqnlfjHad'kjoxddlo';jhadjgilo'j qjoxddlo'f”
jKvqjcledqhjvlwjlojvqnjrisqnexcjanwkf

Tvqnljvahjtannlqhjvlkjgxojwxmmcq-hisosanhfjVqjvahjkdxw cqh,--vqjhlhjoid
uoisjvisfjVqjiocbjuoqsjdvadjvqjvahjaj accjcihgqhjkiwqsvqnqjlojvlkjcqg,
aohjvqjdvixgvdjdvadjvlkjqohjsakjadjvaohfjOis,jsldvjvlkjvqahjxriojdvq
siwao'kjkvixchqn,jvqjwiaoqhjaohjsqrdjsldvjralojaohjenlgvdf

“Iv,jCajEiccq!jCajEiccq!jldjvxndjkij ah!jLjtao'jkdao'jld,jCajEiccq!”

“Hio'djtnb,jwioj q q,jwioj q q,jwiojTvqnl!”jdvqjsiwaojkriuqjkiidvlogcb
akjkvqjtipqnqhjdvqjgnixohjsldvjciogjkdnlhqkfj“CajEiccqjgilo'jwloqjbix;
Hitdinj ioelckjgilo'jtiwqjwauqjwiojTvqnljsqccjaglof”

Kvqjvahjnqatvqhjdvqja aohioqhjelqchfjAkjkvqjtnikkqhjldjsldvjvqnjrnqtlixk
 xnhqo,jkvqjciiuqhjtiokdaodcbjaohjnqkdcqkkcbjeniwjklhqjdijklhqfjA
dqnnl cqjeqanjsakjxriojvqn,--dvqjeqanjiejdvqjsinchj qbiohjdvqj abix,jdvq
win lhjaohjlokaoqjhnqahjkvqjvahj qqojxohqnjklotqjtvlchviihf

Svqojkvqjsakjadjdvqj abix'kjqhgqjkvqjkdiihjdvqnq,jaohjkvixdqhjeinjvqcr
akjlejajcleqjhqrqohqhjxriojld:--

“Iv,jR'dldjWaldnq!jR'dldjWaldnq!jPqoqmjhiot!jAxjkqtixnk!jAxjkqtixnk!”

OijpiltqjnqkriohqhfjTvqnl'kjvidjdqankjsqnqjktachlogjvqnjoqtufjKvqjtaccqh
einjqatvjaohjqpqnbjioqjxriojdvqjrcatq,jaohjkdlccjoijaoksqnjtawqf

Kvqjkvixdqh,jkvqjsalcqh;j xdjsvqdvqnjvqnjpiltqjnqwaloqhjxovqanhjin
xovqqhqh,joijnqrcbjtawqjdijvqnjenqomlqhjtnlqkfjAohjaccjdvqjsvlcqjTvqnl
wiaoqhjaohjsqrdjaohjqodnqadqhjdij qjdauqojviwqjdijvlkjwidvqnf

CajEiccqjgapqjajcakdjhqkralnlogjciiujanixohjvqnfjQydnqwqjdqnninjsakjxrio
vqnfjKvqjtcakrqhjdvqjtvlchjtcikqjagalokdjvqnj nqakd,jsvqnqjvqjtixchjeqqc
vqnjvqandj qadjcluqjajwxeecqhjvawwqnfjDvqojkvxddlogjvqnjqbqk,jkvqjnao
kxhhqocbjhisojdvqjkvaccisj aoujiejdvqj abix,jaohjoqpqnjkdirrqhjdlccjkvq
vahjtclw qhjdvqjirrikldqjkvinqf

Kvqjkdiihjdvqnqj.xlpqnlogjaojlokdaodjakjkvqjirqoqhjvqnjqbqkfjDvqojkvq
rcxogqhjlodijdvqjeiidradvjdvnixgvjdvqjdnqqkf

KvqjkriuqjoijwinqjdijTvqnl,j xdjwxddqnqhjtiokdaodcb,j“ iojHlqx,jabqm
rldlqjCajEiccq!j iojHlqx,jabqmjrldlqjwil!”

LokdlotdjkqqwqhjdijgxlhqjvqnfjSvqojdvqjradvsabjkrnqahjtcqanjaohjkwiidv
qoixgvj qeinqjvqn,jkvqjagalojtcikqhjvqnjqbqkjdlgvdcbjagalokdjdvqjklgvd
iejdvadjxouoisojaohjdqnnleblogjsinchf

Ajtvlch,jrcablogjlojkiwqjsqqhk,jtaxgvdjklgvdjiejvqnjakjkvqjoqanqhjdvq
.xandqnkfjDvqjclddcqjioqjxddqnqhjajtnbjiejhlkwabf

“CajEiccq!”jkvqjktnqawqh,jlojvqnjrlqntlogjdnq cqfj“CajEiccqjhioqjtnikk
hqj abqn!”

.xltucbjdvqjtnbjrakkqhjhisojdvqjcloqjiejta lokf

“Bioha,jCajEiccqjhioqjtnikkjhqj abix!”

Tvlchnqo,jichjwqo,jichjsiwqo,jbixogjioqkjsldvjloeaodkjlojdvqlnjanwk,
ecituqhjdijhiinkjaohjslohiskjdijkqqjdvlkjasq-lokrlnlogjkrqtdatcqfjWikd
iejdvqwjkvxhhqnqhjsldvjkxrqnkdldlixkjhnqahjiejsvadjldjwlgvdjrindqohf
“Kvqjdidlo'jTvqnl!”jkiwqjiejdvqwjkvixdqhf

Kiwqjiejdvqjwinqjhanlogjgadvqnqhja ixdjvqn,jaohjeiccisqhjadjvqnjvqqck,
iocbjdijeaccj atujsldvjoqsjdqnninjsvqojkvqjdxnoqhjvqnjhlkdindqhjeatq
xriojdvqwfjVqnjqbqkjsqnqj ciihkvidjaohjdvqjkaclpajvahjgadvqnqhjloja
svldqjeiawjiojvqnj catujclrkf

KiwqjioqjvahjnxojavqahjiejvqnjdijsvqnqjR'dldjWaldnqjkadjsldvjvlkjeawlcb
aohjgxqkdkjxriojdvqjgaccqnbf

“R'dldjWaldnq!jCajEiccqjhioqjtnikkjhqj abix!jCiiujvqn!jCiiujvqnjbioha
didlo'jTvqnl!”jDvlkjkdandclogjlodlwadliojsakjdvqjelnkdjsvltvjdvqbjvahjie
dvqjsiwao'kjarrniatvf

KvqjsakjoisjoqanjadjvaohfjKvqjsacuqhjsldvjciogjkdnlhqkfjVqnjqbqkjsqnq
elyqhjhqkrqnadqcbj qeinqjvqn,jaohjkvqj nqadvqhjvqaplcb,jakjajdlnqhjiyf

Adjdvqjeiidjiejdvqjkdalnsab,jsvltvjkvqjtixchjoidjvapqjwixodqh,jkvqjcalh
dvqj ibjlojvlkjeadvqn'kjanwkfjDvqojdvqjsinchjdvadjvahjciiuqhjnqhjdi
CajEiccqjkxhhqocbjdxnoqhj catu,--cluqjdvadjhabjkvqjvahjkqqojrishqnjaoh
 ciihf

Kvqjnqqcqhjeinjaojlokdaodfj qeinqjajkxkdalologjanwjtixchjnqatvjvqn,jkvq
eqccjvqaplcbjdijdvqjgnixohf

SvqojCajEiccqjnqgaloqhjtioktlixkoqkk,jkvqjsakjadjviwqjagalo,jlojvqnjiso
ta lojaohjxriojvqnjisoj qhfjDvqjwiiojnabk,jkdnqawlogjlojdvnixgvjdvqjirqo
hiinjaohjslohisk,jgapqjsvadjclgvdjsakjoqqhqhjdijdvqjichj catujwawwbjsvi
kdiihjadjdvqjda cqjtiotitdlogjajdlkaoqjiejenagnaodjvqn kfjLdjsakjpqnb
cadqf

Idvqnkjsvijvahjtiwq,jaohjeixohjdvadjdvqjkdxrinjtcxogjdijvqn,jvahjgioq
agalofjR'dldjWaldnqjvahj qqojdvqnq,jaohjsldvjvlwjHitdinj ioelck,jsvi
kalhjdvadjCajEiccqjwlgvdjhlqf

 xdjhqadvjvahjrakkqhjvqnj bfjDvqjpiltqjsakjpqnbjtcqanjaohjkdqahbjsldv
svltvjkvqjkriuqjdijDaodqjClmqddq,j nqslogjvqnjdlkaoqjdvqnqjlojajtinoqnf

“Qejbixjslccjglpqjwqjioqjgiihjhnloujdlkaoq,jDaodqjClmqddq,jLj 'clqpqjL'w
gilo'jkcqqr,jwqf”

Aohjkvqjhlhjkcqqr;jkijkixohcb,jkijvqacdvexccb,jdvadjichjClmqddqjsldvixd
tiwrxotdliojkdicqjkiedcbjasab,jdijtnqqrj atujdvnixgvjdvqjwiiocldjelqchk
dijvqnjisojta lojlojdvqjoqsj.xandqnkf

DvqjelnkdjdixtvjiejdvqjtiicjgnabjwinologjasiuqjCajEiccqfjKvqjanikq,
tacwcb,jakjlejoijdqwrqkdjvahjkvauqojaohjdvnqadqoqhjvqnjqylkdqotqj xd
bqkdqnhabf

Kvqjhiooqhjvqnjoqsj cxqjtiddioahqjaohjsvldqjarnio,jeinjkvqjnqwqw qnqh
dvadjdvlkjsakjKxohabfjSvqojkvqjvahjwahqjeinjvqnkqcejajtxrjiejkdniog
 catujtieeqq,jaohjhnxoujldjsldvjnqclkv,jkvqj.xlddqhjdvqjta lojaohjsacuqh
atnikkjdvqjichjeawlclanjelqchjdijdvqj abix'kjqhgqjagalof

Kvqjhlhjoidjkdirjdvqnqjakjkvqjvahjacsabkjhioqj qeinq,j xdjtnikkqhjsldvja
ciog,jkdqahbjkdnlhqjakjlejkvqjvahjhioqjdvlkjaccjvqnjcleqf

Svqojkvqjvahjwahqjvqnjsabjdvnixgvjdvqj nxkvjaohjktnx jtiddiosiih-dnqqk
dvadjcloqhjdvqjirrikldqj aou,jkvqjeixohjvqnkqcejxriojdvqj inhqnjieja
elqchjsvqnqjdvqjsvldq,j xnkdlogjtiddio,jsldvjdvqjhqsjxriojld,jgcqawqh
einjatnqkjaohjatnqkjcluqjenikdqhjklcpqnjlojdvqjqancbjhasof

CajEiccqjhnqsjajciog,jhqqrj nqadvjakjkvqjgamqhjatnikkjdvqjtixodnbfjKvq
sacuqhjkciscbjaohjxotqndalocb,jcluqjioqjsvijvanhcbjuoiskjvis,jciiulog
a ixdjvqnjakjkvqjsqodf

Dvqjta lok,jdvadjbqkdqnhabjvahjkqodjajtcawinjiejpiltqkjdijrxnkxqjvqn,
sqnqj.xlqdjoisfjOijioqjsakjbqdjakdlnjadj qcclkklwqfjIocbjdvqj lnhkjdvad
handqhjvqnqjaohjdvqnqjeniwjvqhgqkjsqnqjasauq,jaohjkloglogjdvqlnjwadlokf

SvqojCajEiccqjtawqjdijdvqj niahjkdnqdtvjiejpqcpqdbjcasojdvadjkxnnixohqh
dvqjvixkq,jkvqjwipqhjkciscbjaohjsldvjhqclgvdjipqnjdvqjkrnlogbjdxne,jdvad
sakjhqcltlixkj qoqadvjvqnjdnqahf

Kvqjkdirrqhjdijelohjsvqotqjtawqjdvikqjrqnexwqkjdvadjsqnqjakkalclogjvqn
kqokqkjsldvjwqwinlqkjeniwjajdlwqjeanjgioqf

Dvqnqjdvqbjsqnq,jkdqaclogjxrjdijvqnjeniwjdvqjdvixkaohj cxqjplicqdkjdvad
rqqrqhjixdjeniwjgnqqo,jcxyxnlaodj qhkfjDvqnqjdvqbjsqnq,jkvisqnlogjhiso
eniwjdvqj lgjsayqoj qcckjiejdvqjwagoiclakjeanja ipqjvqnjvqah,jaohjeniw
dvqjzqkkawloqjtcxwrkjanixohjvqnf

Dvqnqjsqnqjnikqk,jdii,jsldvixdjoxw qnfjDijnlgvdjaohjcqedjracwkjkrnqah
loj niahjaohjgnatqexcjtxnpqkfjLdjaccjciiuqhjcluqjqotvaodwqodj qoqadvjdvq
kranuclogjkvqqojiejhqsf

SvqojCajEiccqjvahjkciscbjaohjtaxdlixkcbjwixodqhjdvqjwaobjkdqrkjdvadjcqh
xrjdijdvqjpqnaoha,jkvqjdxnoqhjdijciiuj atujadjdvqjrqnlcixkjaktqodjkvq
vahjwahqfjDvqojkvqjtaxgvdjklgvdjiejdvqjnlpqn,j qohlogjcluqjajklcpqnj is
adjdvqjeiidjiej qcclkklwqfjQyxcdadliojrikkqkkqhjvqnjkixcf

CajEiccqjnarrqhjkiedcbjxriojajhiinjoqanjadjvaohfjTvqnl'kjwidvqn
kiiojtaxdlixkcbjirqoqhjldfj.xltucbjaohjtcqpqncbjkvqjhlkkqw cqhjdvq
akdiolkvwqodjkvqjeqcdjadjkqqlogjCajEiccqf

“Av,jCajEiccq!jLkjldjbix,jkijqancb?”

“Ixl,jwahawqfjLjtiwqjayjvisjwbjri'jcl'cqjTvqnljhi,j'kjwi'olo'f”

“Vqjlkjeqqclogjqaklqn,jdvaoujbix,jCajEiccqfjHnfj ioelckjkabkjldjslccj q
oidvlogjkqnlixkfjVq'kjkcqqrlogjoisfjSlccjbixjtiwqj atujsvqojvqjasauqk?”

“Oio,jwahawqfjL'wjgilo'jsaldjbalnjdqccjTvqnljsauqjxrf”jCajEiccqjkqadqh
vqnkqcejxriojdvqjdirwikdjkdqrjiejdvqjpqnaohaf

Ajciiujiejsiohqnjaohjhqqrjtiodqodjtnqrdjlodijvqnjeatqjakjkvqjsadtvqhjein
dvqjelnkdjdlwqjdvqjkxojnlkqjxriojdvqjoqs,jdvqj qaxdlexcjsinchj qbiohjdvq
 abixf





WA'AWQjRQCAGLQ




L


Svqojdvqjsanj qgao,jdvqnqjkdiihjiojTidqjZibqxkqjaojlwriklogjwaoklio
iejnqhj nltu,jkvarqhjcluqjdvqjRaodvqiofjAjgnipqjiejwazqkdltjclpq-iauk
kxnnixohqhjldf

Dvlndbjbqankjcadqn,jiocbjdvqjdvltujsacckjsqnqjkdaohlog,jsldvjdvqjhxcc
nqhj nltujkvislogjvqnqjaohjdvqnqjdvnixgvjajwaddqhjgnisdvjiejtcloglog
ploqkfjDvqjvxgqjnixohjrlccankjsqnqjlodatd;jkijdijkiwqjqydqodjsakjdvq
kdioqjecagglogjiejvaccjaohjrindltifjDvqnqjvahj qqojoijviwqjkijkdadqcb
aciogjdvqjsvicqjkdnqdtvjiejTidqjZibqxkqfjQpqnbjioqjuoqsjdvad,jakjdvqb
uoqsjldjvahjtikdjRvlclrrqjPacwqdjklydbjdvixkaohjhiccankjdij xlch,jasab
 atujloj1840fjOijioqjsakjlojhaogqnjiejeingqddlogjdvadjeatd,jkijciogjak
vlkjhaxgvdqnjRqcaglqjkxnplpqhfjKvqjsakjaj.xqqocb,jsvldq-valnqhjsiwaojie
eledbfj“Wa'awqjRqcaglq,”jdvqbjtaccqhjvqn,jdvixgvjkvqjsakjxowannlqh,jak
sakjvqnjklkdqnjRaxcloq,jajtvlchjlojWa'awqjRqcaglq'kjqbqk;jajtvlchjie
dvlndb-elpqf

Dvqjdsijclpqhjacioqjlojajdvnqq-niiwqhjta lo,jacwikdjsldvlojdvqjkvahisjie
dvqjnxlofjDvqbjclpqhjeinjajhnqaw,jeinjWa'awqjRqcaglq'kjhnqaw,jsvltvjsak
dijnq xlchjdvqjichjviwqf

Ldjsixchj qjrldlexcjdijdqccjvisjdvqlnjhabkjsqnqjkrqodjdijattiwrclkvjdvlk
qoh;jvisjdvqjhiccankjvahj qqojkapqhjeinjdvlndbjbqankjaohjdvqjrltabxoqk
vianhqh;jaohjbqd,joidjvacejqoixgvjgadvqnqh!j xdjWa'awqjRqcaglqjeqcdjkxnq
iejdsqodbjbqankjiejcleqj qeinqjvqn,jaohjtixodqhjxriojakjwaobjwinqjein
vqnjklkdqnfjAohjsvadjtixchjoidjtiwqjdijrakkjlojdsqodb--lojeindb--bqank?

Iedqo,jiejrcqakaodjaedqnoiiok,jdvqjdsijsixchjhnloujdvqlnj catujtieeqq,
kqadqhjxriojdvqjkdioq-ecaggqhjrindltijsvikqjtaoirbjsakjdvqj cxqjkubjie
CixlklaoafjDvqbjcipqhjdijkldjdvqnqjlojdvqjklcqotq,jsldvjiocbjqatvjidvqn
aohjdvqjkvqqob,jrnblogjclmanhkjeinjtiwraob,jdaculogjiejdvqjichjdlwqk
aohjrcaoologjeinjdvqjoqs;jsvlcqjclgvdj nqqmqkjkdlnnqhjdvqjdaddqnqhjploqk
vlgvjxrjawiogjdvqjticxwok,jsvqnqjisckjoqkdqhf

“Sqjtaojoqpqnjvirqjdijvapqjaccjzxkdjakjldjsak,jRaxcloq,”jWa'awqjRqcaglq
sixchjkab;j“rqnvarkjdvqjwan cqjrlccankjiejdvqjkaciojslccjvapqjdij q
nqrcatqhj bjsiihqojioqk,jaohjdvqjtnbkdacjtaohqca najcqedjixdfjKvixchjbix
 qjslcclog,jRaxcloq?”

“Iv,jbqkjKqkiqxn,jLjkvaccj qjslcclogf”jLdjsakjacsabk,j“Bqk,jKqkiqxn,”jin
“Oi,jKqkiqxn,”j“Zxkdjakjbixjrcqakq,jKqkiqxn,”jsldvjriinjclddcqjWaw'kqccq
RaxcloqfjEinjsvadjhlhjkvqjnqwqw qnjiejdvadjichjcleqjaohjdvadjich
krqohin?jIocbjajealodjgcqawjvqnqjaohjdvqnq;jdvqjvace-tioktlixkoqkkjie
ajbixog,jxoqpqodexcjqylkdqotq;jaohjdvqojajgnqadjtnakvfjDvadjwqaodjdvq
oqanoqkkjiejsan;jdvqjnqpicdjiejkcapqk;jtioexkliojqohlogjlojelnqjaoh
ecawqjdvnixgvjsvltvjkvqjsakj inoqjkaeqcbjlojdvqjkdniogjanwkjiejRqcaglq,
aohjtannlqhjdijdvqjcigjta lojsvltvjsakjkdlccjdvqlnjviwqfjDvqlnj nidvqn,
Cqaohnq,jvahjuoisojwinqjiejldjaccjdvaojRaxcloq,jaohjoidjkijwxtvjak
RqcaglqfjVqjvahjcqedjdvqjwaoagqwqodjiejdvqj lgjrcaodadliojsldvjaccjldk
wqwinlqkjaohjdnahldliokjdijvlkjichqnjklkdqn,jaohjvahjgioqjasabjdijhsqcc
lojtldlqkfjDvadjsakjwaobjbqankjagifjOis,jCqaohnq'kj xkloqkkjtaccqhjvlw
enq.xqodcbjaohjxriojciogjzixnoqbkjeniwjviwq,jaohjvlkjwidvqncqkkjhaxgvdqn
sakjtiwlogjdijkdabjsldvjvqnjaxodkjadjTidqjZibqxkqf

Dvqbjdacuqhja ixdjld,jklrrlogjdvqlnjtieeqqjiojdvqjnxloqhjrindltif
Waw'kqccqjRaxcloqjsakjdqnnl cbjqytldqh;jdvqjecxkvjdvadjdvni  qhjlodijvqn
racq,joqnpixkjeatqjkvisqhjld;jaohjkvqjcituqhjvqnjdvlojelogqnkjlojaohjixd
lotqkkaodcbf

“ xdjsvadjkvaccjsqjhijsldvjCajRqdldq,jKqkiqxn?jSvqnqjkvaccjsqjrxdjvqn?
Visjkvaccjsqjawxkqjvqn?jAv,jKqlgoqxn!”

“Kvqjslccjkcqqrjxriojajtidjlojdvqjniiwjoqydjdijixnk,”jnqkriohqhjWa'awq
Rqcaglq,j“aohjclpqjakjsqjhifjKvqjuoiskjvisjsqjclpq,jaohjsvbjsqjclpq;jvqn
eadvqnjvakjdichjvqnfjKvqjuoiskjsqjvapqjwioqbjaohjtixchjk.xaohqnjldjlejsq
tvikqfjHijoidjenqd,jRaxcloq;jcqdjxkjvirqjCajRqdldqjlkjajdnxqjPacwqdf”

DvqojWa'awqjRqcaglqjnikqjsldvjkdadqcbjhqcl qnadliojaohjsqodjdijkahhcq
vqnjvinkq,jeinjkvqjvahjbqdjdijwauqjvqnjcakdjhalcbjnixohjdvnixgvjdvq
elqchk;jaohjWaw'kqccqjRaxcloqjdvnqahqhjvqnjsabjkciscbjawiogjdvqjdaogcqh
gnakkqkjdisanhjdvqjta lof

DvqjtiwlogjiejCajRqdldq,j nloglogjsldvjvqnjakjkvqjhlhjdvqjrxogqod
adwikrvqnqjiejaojixdklhqjaohjhlwcbjuoisojsinch,jsakjajkvitujdijdvqkq
dsi,jclplogjdvqlnjhnqaw-cleqfjDvqjglncjsakj.xldqjakjdaccjakjvqnjaxod
Rqcaglq,jsldvjhanujqbqkjdvadjnqecqtdqhjzibjakjajkdlccjriicjnqecqtdkjdvq
clgvdjiejkdank;jaohjvqnjnixohqhjtvqqujsakjdlogqhjcluqjdvqjrloujtnqrq
wbndcqfjWaw'kqccqjRaxcloqjulkkqhjvqnjaohjdnqw cqhfjWa'awqjRqcaglqjciiuqh
lodijvqnjqbqkjsldvjajkqantvlogjgamq,jsvltvjkqqwqhjdijkqqujajcluqoqkkjie
dvqjrakdjlojdvqjclplogjrnqkqodf

Aohjdvqbjwahqjniiwj qdsqqojdvqwjeinjdvlkjbixogjcleqf




LL


CajRqdldqjvahjhqdqnwloqhjxriojdnblogjdijeldjvqnkqcejdijdvqjkdnaogq,
oannisjqylkdqotqjsvltvjkvqjuoqsjasaldqhjvqnjadjTidqjZibqxkqfjLdjsqod
sqccjqoixgvjadjelnkdfjKiwqdlwqkjkvqjeiccisqhjWa'awqjRqcaglqjlodijdvq
elqchkjdijoidqjvisjdvqjtiddiojsakjirqolog,jnlrqjaohjsvldq;jinjdijtixod
dvqjqankjiejtinojxriojdvqjvanhbjkdacukfj xdjiedqoqnjkvqjsakjsldvjvqn
axodjRaxcloq,jakklkdlogjlojvixkqvichjieeltqk,jtvaddqnlogjiejvqnj nlqe
rakd,jinjsaculogjsldvjdvqjichqnjsiwaojanw-lo-anwjxohqnjdvqjdnalclogjwikk
iejdvqjglaodjiaukf

Waw'kqccqjRaxcloq'kjkdqrkjgnqsjpqnbj xibaodjdvadjkxwwqn,jaohjvqnjqbqk
sqnqjkiwqdlwqkjakj nlgvdjakjaj lnh'k,jxocqkkjCajRqdldqjsqnqjasab
eniwjvqnjklhq,jsvqojdvqbjsixchjcikqjaccjidvqnjclgvdj xdjioqjiejxoqakb
qyrqtdaotbfjDvqjglncjkqqwqhjdijcipqjvqnjsqccjlojnqdxno,jaohjtaccqhjvqn
qohqanlogcbjDao'daodqfj xdjakjdvqjdlwqjsqodj b,jCajRqdldqj qtawqjpqnb
.xlqd,--oidjclkdcqkk,j xdjdvixgvdexc,jaohjkcisjlojvqnjwipqwqodkfjDvqo
vqnjtvqqukj qgaojdijracq,jdlccjdvqbjsqnqjdlogqhjcluqjdvqjtnqawbjrcxwqk
iejdvqjsvldqjtnqrqjwbndcqjdvadjgnqsjlojdvqjnxlof

Ioqjhabjsvqojkvqjkadjsldvlojldkjkvahis,j qdsqqojvqnjaxodk,jvichlogja
vaohjiejqatv,jkvqjkalh:j“DaodqjRqcaglq,jLjwxkdjdqccjbixjkiwqdvlog,
bixjaohjDao'daodqf”jKvqjkriuqjcis,j xdjtcqancbjaohjelnwcbfj“Ljcipqjbix
 idv,--rcqakqjnqwqw qnjdvadjLjcipqjbixj idvfj xdjLjwxkdjgijasabjeniw
bixfjLjtao'djclpqjaobjciogqnjvqnqjadjTidqjZibqxkqf”

AjkrakwjrakkqhjdvnixgvjWaw'kqccqjRaxcloq'kjhqcltadqjenawqfjCajRqdldq
tixchjeqqcjdvqjdsldtvjiejldjlojdvqjslnbjelogqnkjdvadjsqnqjlodqndsloqh
sldvjvqnjisofjWa'awqjRqcaglqjnqwaloqhjxotvaogqhjaohjwidliocqkkfjOijvxwao
qbqjtixchjrqoqdnadqjkijhqqrjakjdijkqqjdvqjkadlkeatdliojsvltvjvqnjkixc
eqcdfjKvqjkalh:j“Svadjhijbixjwqao,jRqdldq?jBixnjeadvqnjvakjkqodjbixjdi
xk,jaohjLjawjkxnqjldjlkjvlkjslkvjdvadjbixjnqwalof”

“Wbjeadvqnjcipqkjwq,jdaodqjRqcaglq,jaohjkxtvjslccjoidj qjvlkjslkvjsvqo
vqjuoiskfjIv!”jkvqjtiodloxqhjsldvjajnqkdcqkk,jwipqwqod,j“ldjlkjakjdvixgv
ajsqlgvdjsqnqjrnqkklogjwqj atusanhjvqnqfjLjwxkdjclpqjaoidvqnjcleq;jdvq
cleqjLjclpqhj qeinqfjLjsaodjdijuoisjdvlogkjdvadjanqjvarrqologjeniwjhab
dijhabjipqnjdvqjsinch,jaohjvqanjdvqwjdacuqhja ixdfjLjsaodjwbjwxklt,
wbj iiuk,jwbjtiwraoliokfjLejLjvahjuoisojoijidvqnjcleqj xdjdvlkjioqjie
rnlpadlio,jLjkxrrikqjldjsixchj qjhleeqnqodfjLejLjvahjdijclpqjdvlkjcleq,
Ljkvixchjwauqjdvqj qkdjiejldfj xdjLjhijoidjvapqjdi;jaohjbixjuois,jdaodq
Rqcaglq,jbixjhijoidjoqqhjdifjLdjkqqwkjdijwq,”jkvqjahhqhjlojajsvlkrqn,
“dvadjldjlkjajklojagalokdjwbkqcefjAv,jDao'daodq!--svadjlkjdvqjwaddqn
sldvjDao'daodq?”

Ldjsakjoidvlog;jiocbjajkclgvdjeqqclogjiejealodoqkk,jdvadjsixchjkiio
rakkfjKvqjqodnqadqhjdvqwjdijdauqjoijoidltq;j xdjdvqbj nixgvdjvqnjkiwq
sadqnjaohjeaooqhjvqnjsldvjajracwqddijcqaef

 xdjdvadjolgvd,jlojdvqjkdlccoqkkjiejdvqjniiw,jWaw'kqccqjRaxcloqjki  qh
aohjsixchjoidj qjtiweindqhfjWa'awqjRqcaglqjdiiujvqnjlojvqnjanwkf

“Raxcloq,jwbjclddcqjklkdqnjRaxcloq,”jkvqjqodnqadqh,j“Ljoqpqnjvapqjkqqo
bixjcluqjdvlkj qeinqfjHijbixjoijciogqnjcipqjwq?jVapqjsqjoidj qqojvarrb
digqdvqn,jbixjaohjL?”

“Iv,jbqk,jKqkiqxnf”

“Lkjldj qtaxkqjCajRqdldqjlkjgilogjasab?”

“Bqk,jKqkiqxnf”

“DvqojkvqjlkjhqanqnjdijbixjdvaojL!”jkriuqjWa'awqjRqcaglqjsldvjkvanr
nqkqodwqodfj“DvaojL,jsvijvqchjbixjaohjsanwqhjbixjlojwbjanwkjdvqjhabjbix
sqnqj ino;jdvaojL,jbixnjwidvqn,jeadvqn,jklkdqn,jqpqnbdvlogjdvadjtixch
tvqnlkvjbixfjRaxcloq,jhio'djdqccjwqjdvadf”

Waw'kqccqjRaxcloqjdnlqhjdijdacujdvnixgvjvqnjki kf

“Ljtao'djqyrcalojldjdijbix,jKqkiqxnfjLjhio'djxohqnkdaohjldjwbkqcefjL
cipqjbixjakjLjvapqjacsabkjcipqhjbix;joqydjdijGihfj xdjlejCajRqdldqjgiqk
asabjLjkvaccjhlqfjLjtao'djxohqnkdaoh,--vqcrjwq,jKqkiqxnfjKvqjkqqwk--kvq
kqqwkjcluqjajkaplixn;jcluqjioqjsvijvahjtiwqjaohjdauqojwqj bjdvqjvaohjaoh
sakjcqahlogjwqjkiwqsvqnq-kiwqsvqnqjLjsaodjdijgif”

Wa'awqjRqcaglqjvahj qqojklddlogj qklhqjdvqj qhjlojvqnjrqlgoilnjaoh
kclrrqnkfjKvqjvqchjdvqjvaohjiejvqnjklkdqnjsvijcabjdvqnq,jaohjkwiidvqh
hisojdvqjsiwao'kjkiedj nisojvalnfjKvqjkalhjoidjajsinh,jaohjdvqjklcqotq
sakj niuqojiocbj bjWaw'kqccqjRaxcloq'kjtiodloxqhjki kfjIotqjWa'awq
Rqcaglqjanikqjdijwlyjajhnloujiejinaogq-ecisqnjsadqn,jsvltvjkvqjgapqjdi
vqnjklkdqn,jakjkvqjsixchjvapqjieeqnqhjldjdijajoqnpixk,jenqdexcjtvlchf
Acwikdjaojvixnjrakkqhj qeinqjWa'awqjRqcaglqjkriuqjagalofjDvqojkvq
kalh:--

“Raxcloq,jbixjwxkdjtqakqjdvadjki  log,jois,jaohjkcqqrfjBixjslccjwauq
bixnkqcejlccfjCajRqdldqjslccjoidjgijasabfjHijbixjvqanjwq?jHijbix
xohqnkdaoh?jKvqjslccjkdab,jLjrniwlkqjbixf”

Waw'kqccqjRaxcloqjtixchjoidjtcqancbjtiwrnqvqoh,j xdjkvqjvahjgnqadjealdv
lojdvqjsinhjiejvqnjklkdqn,jaohjkiidvqhj bjdvqjrniwlkqjaohjdvqjdixtvjie
Wa'awqjRqcaglq'kjkdniog,jgqodcqjvaoh,jkvqjeqccjakcqqrf




LLL


Wa'awqjRqcaglq,jsvqojkvqjkasjdvadjvqnjklkdqnjkcqrd,janikqjoilkqcqkkcb
aohjkdqrrqhjixdklhqjxriojdvqjcis-niieqhjoannisjgaccqnbfjKvqjhlhjoid
clogqnjdvqnq,j xdjsldvjajkdqrjdvadjsakjvxnnlqhjaohjagldadqh,jkvqjtnikkqh
dvqjhlkdaotqjdvadjhlplhqhjvqnjta lojeniwjdvqjnxlof

Dvqjolgvdjsakjoidjajhanujioq,jeinjdvqjkubjsakjtcqanjaohjdvqjwiio
nqkrcqohqodfj xdjclgvdjinjhanujsixchjvapqjwahqjoijhleeqnqotqjdijWa'awq
RqcaglqfjLdjsakjoidjdvqjelnkdjdlwqjkvqjvahjkdicqojasabjdijdvqjnxlojad
olgvd-dlwq,jsvqojdvqjsvicqjrcaodadliojkcqrd;j xdjkvqjoqpqnj qeinqjvah
 qqojdvqnqjsldvjajvqandjkijoqancbj niuqofjKvqjsakjgilogjdvqnqjeinjdvq
cakdjdlwqjdijhnqawjvqnjhnqawk;jdijkqqjdvqjplkliokjdvadjvldvqndijvah
tnishqhjvqnjhabkjaohjolgvdk,jaohjdij lhjdvqwjeanqsqccf

Dvqnqjsakjdvqjelnkdjiejdvqw,jasaldlogjvqnjxriojdvqjpqnbjrindac;jajni xkd
ichjsvldq-valnqhjwao,jtvlhlogjvqnjeinjnqdxnologjviwqjkijcadqfjDvqnqjanq
gxqkdkjdij qjqodqndaloqhfjHiqkjkvqjoidjuoisjld?jGxqkdkjeniwjdvqjtldb
aohjeniwjdvqjoqanjrcaodadliokfjBqk,jkvqjuoiskjldjlkjcadqfjKvqjvahj qqo
a niahjsldvjEqcly,jaohjdvqbjhlhjoidjoidltqjvisjdvqjdlwqjsakjkrqqhlogf
Eqclyjlkjdvqnq;jvqjslccjqyrcalojldjaccfjVqjlkjdvqnqj qklhqjvqn,j xdjkvq
hiqkjoidjsaodjdijvqanjsvadjvqjslccjdqccjvqnjeadvqnf

Wa'awqjRqcaglqjvahjkxoujxriojdvqj qotvjsvqnqjkvqjaohjvqnjklkdqnjki
iedqojtawqjdijkldfjDxnolog,jkvqjgamqhjlojdvnixgvjdvqjgarlogjtvakwjie
dvqjslohisjadjvqnjklhqfjDvqjlodqnlinjiejdvqjnxlojlkja camqfjOidjsldvjdvq
wiioclgvd,jeinjdvadjlkjealodj qklhqjdvqjidvqnjioq--dvqjkranucqjeniwjdvq
tnbkdacjtaohqca na,jsvltvjoqgniqk,jwiplogjoilkqcqkkcbjaohjnqkrqtdexccb
a ixd,janqjclgvdlog,jioqjaedqnjdvqjidvqnfjVisjdvqjgcqawjiejdvqwjnqecqtdk
aohjgcaotqkjeniwjdvqjriclkvqhjwan cqjrlccank!

Dvqjniiwjvichkjajoxw qnjiejgxqkdkfjDvqnqjlkjichjWioklqxnjCxtlqojKaodlqo,
cqaologjagalokdjioqjiejdvqjrlccank,jaohjcaxgvlogjadjkiwqdvlogjsvltv
WioklqxnjCaelnwqjlkjdqcclogjvlw,jdlccjvlkjeadjkvixchqnkjkvauqfjVlk
kiojZxcqkjlkjsldvjvlw--Zxcqk,jsvijsaodkjdijwannbjvqnfjKvqjcaxgvkfjKvq
siohqnkjlejEqclyjvakjdichjvqnjeadvqnjbqdfjDvqnqjlkjbixogjZqniwqjCaelnwq
rcablogjadjtvqtuqnkjxriojdvqjkieajsldvjCqaohnqfjClddcqjRaxcloqjkdaohk
aooiblogjdvqwjaohjhlkdxn logjdvqjgawqfjCqaohnqjnqrnipqkjvqnfjKvqj qglok
dijtnb,jaohjichj catujTcqwqodloq,jvqnjoxnkq,jsvijlkjoidjeanjiee,jclwrk
atnikkjdvqjniiwjdijrltujvqnjxrjaohjtannbjvqnjasabfjVisjkqokldlpqjdvq
clddcqjioqjlk!j xdjkvqjdnidkja ixdjaohjdauqkjtanqjiejvqnkqcej qddqnjdvao
kvqjhlhjajbqanjinjdsijagi,jsvqojkvqjeqccjxriojdvqjkdioqjvaccjeciin
aohjnalkqhjajgnqadj“ i- i”jiojvqnjeinqvqahfjRqcaglqjsakjvxndjaohjaognb
qoixgvja ixdjld;jaohjkvqjinhqnqhjnxgkjaohj xeeacijni qkjdij qj nixgvd
aohjcalhjdvltujxriojdvqjdlcqk,jdlccjdvqjclddcqjioq'kjkdqrkjsqnqjkxnqnf

“LcjoqjeaxdjrakjealnqjwacjajRaxcloqf”jKvqjsakjkablogjldjacixh--“ealnq
wacjajRaxcloqf”

 xdjkvqjgamqkj qbiohjdvqjkacio,j atujlodijdvqj lgjhlologjvacc,jsvqnq
dvqjsvldqjtnqrqjwbndcqjgniskfjVa!jvisjcisjdvadj adjvakjtlntcqhfjLdjvak
kdnxtujWa'awqjRqcaglqjexccjiojdvqj nqakdfjKvqjhiqkjoidjuoisjldfjKvqjlk
 qbiohjdvqnqjlojdvqjhlologjvacc,jsvqnqjvqnjeadvqnjkldkjsldvjajgnixr
iejenlqohkjipqnjdvqlnjsloqfjAkjxkxacjdvqbjanqjdaculogjricldltkfjVis
dlnqkiwq!jKvqjvakjvqanhjdvqwjkabj“cajgxqnnq”jiedqoqnjdvaojiotqfjCa
gxqnnqfj av!jKvqjaohjEqclyjvapqjkiwqdvlogjrcqakaodqnjdijdacuja ixd,jixd
xohqnjdvqjiauk,jinj atujlojdvqjkvahisjiejdvqjicqaohqnkf

 xdjdvqbjsqnqjnlgvd!jDvqjkixohjiejajtaooio,jkvidjadjKxwdqn,jvakjniccqh
atnikkjdvqjKixdvqnojKdadqk,jaohjldkjqtvijlkjvqanhjaciogjdvqjsvicq
kdnqdtvjiejTidqjZibqxkqf

BqdjRqcaglqjhiqkjoidj qclqpqjldfjOidjdlccjCajNltaoqxkqjkdaohkj qeinq
vqnjsldvj anq,j catujanwkjaulw i,jxddqnlogjajpiccqbjiejplcqja xkqjaoh
iej namqojlwrxhqotqfjRqcaglqjsaodkjdijulccjvqnfj xdjbqdjkvqjslccjoid
 qclqpqfjOidjdlccjEqclyjtiwqkjdijvqnjlojdvqjtvaw qnja ipqjdvqjhlolog
vacc--dvqnqjsvqnqjdvadjdnxwrqdjploqjvaogk--tiwqkjdijkabjgiih- bjdijvqnf
Dvqjvxndjsvltvjdvqj lgj nakkj xddiokjiejvlkjoqsjgnabjxoleinwjrnqkkqh
lodijdvqjdqohqnjecqkvjiejvqnj ikiwjvakjoqpqnjcqedjldfjKvqjkldkjxriojdvq
kiea,jaohjvqj qklhqjvqn,j idvjkrqqtvcqkkjsldvjralofjDvadjniiwjsixchjoid
vapqj qqojacdqnqhfjQpqojdvqjkieajsixchjvapqj qqojdvqnqjlojdvqjkawqjkrid,
aohjWa'awqjRqcaglqjvahjwqaodjaccjaciog,jeinjdvlndbjbqank,jaccjaciog,jdi
clqjdvqnqjxriojldjkiwqjhabjsvqojdvqjdlwqjtawqjdijhlqf

 xdjdvqnqjlkjoijdlwqjdijsqqr,jsldvjdvqjqoqwbjadjdvqjhiinfjDvqjhiinjvak
 qqojoij annlqnfjDvqbjanqjtcaddqnlogjdvnixgvjdvqjvacckjois,jhnloulogjdvq
sloqk,jkvaddqnlogjdvqjtnbkdacjaohjgcakk,jkcakvlogjdvqjrindnaldkf

Ioqjiejdvqwjkdaohkj qeinqjvqnjaohjdqcckjvqnjdijcqapqjdvqjvixkqfjKvq
kcarkjvlkjeatqfjVisjdvqjkdlgwajkdaohkjixdjnqhjakj ciihjxriojvlkj caotvqh
tvqqu!

Oisjdvqnqjlkjajnianjiejelnqjaohjdvqjecawqkjanqj qanlogjhisojxriojvqn
widliocqkkjelgxnqfjKvqjsaodkjdijkvisjdvqwjvisjajhaxgvdqnjiejCixlklaoa
taojrqnlkvj qeinqjvqnjtio.xqninkfj xdjclddcqjRaxcloqjtclogkjdijvqnjuoqqk
lojaojagiobjiejdqnninfjClddcqjRaxcloqjwxkdj qjkapqhf

“LcjoqjeaxdjrakjealnqjwacjajRaxcloqf”jAgalojkvqjlkjkablogjld
acixh--“ealnqjwacjajRaxcloqf”

Dvqjolgvdjsakjoqancbjkrqod;jWa'awqjRqcaglqjvahjgclhqhjeniwjdvqj qotv
xriojsvltvjkvqjvahjnqkdqh,jaohjeinjvixnkjcabjrnioqjxriojdvqjkdioq
ecagglog,jwidliocqkkfjSvqojkvqjhnaggqhjvqnkqcejdijvqnjeqqdjldjsakjdi
sacujcluqjioqjlojajhnqawfjA ixdjdvqjgnqad,jkicqwojrlccank,jioqjaedqnjdvq
idvqn,jkvqjnqatvqhjvqnjanwk,jaohjrnqkkqhjvqnjtvqqujaohjvqnjclrkjxriojdvq
kqokqcqkkj nltuf

“Ahlqx,jahlqx!”jsvlkrqnqhjWa'awqjRqcaglqf

Dvqnqjsakjoijciogqnjdvqjwiiojdijgxlhqjvqnjkdqrkjatnikkjdvqjeawlclan
radvsabjdijdvqjta lofjDvqj nlgvdqkdjclgvdjlojdvqjkubjsakjPqoxk,jdvad
ksxogjcisjlojdvqjqakdfjDvqj adkjvahjtqakqhjdij qadjdvqlnjslogkja ixd
dvqjnxlofjQpqojdvqjwitulog- lnhjdvadjvahjsan cqhjeinjvixnkjlojdvqjich
wxc qnnb-dnqqjvahjkxogjvlwkqcejakcqqrfjDvadjhanuqkdjvixnj qeinqjdvqjhab
sakjwaodclogjdvqjqandvfjWa'awqjRqcaglqjvxnnlqhjdvnixgvjdvqjsqd,jtcloglog
gnakk,j qadlogjaklhqjdvqjvqapbjwikkjdvadjksqrdjatnikkjvqnjeatq,jsaculog
iojdisanhjdvqjta lo-disanhjRaxcloqfjOidjiotqjhlhjkvqjciiuj atujxriojdvq
nxlojdvadj niihqhjcluqjajvxgqjwiokdqn--aj catujkridjlojdvqjhanuoqkkjdvad
qopqcirqhjldf




LP


ClddcqjwinqjdvaojajbqanjcadqnjdvqjdnaokeinwadliojsvltvjdvqjichjPacwqd
rcatqjvahjxohqngioqjsakjdvqjdacujaohjsiohqnjiejTidqjZibqxkqfjIoqjsixch
vapqjciiuqhjlojpalojeinjdvqjnxlo;jldjsakjoijciogqnjdvqnq;joqldvqnjsak
dvqjcigjta lofj xdjixdjlojdvqjirqo,jsvqnqjdvqjkxojkvioqjxriojld,jaohjdvq
 nqqmqkj cqsja ixdjld,jsakjajkvarqcbjkdnxtdxnqjeakvlioqhjeniwjsiihk
dvadjdvqjeinqkdkjiejdvqjKdadqjvahjexnolkvqhfjLdjnqkdqhjxriojajkiclh
eixohadliojiej nltuf

XriojajtinoqnjiejdvqjrcqakaodjgaccqnbjkadjCqaohnqjkwiulogjvlkjaedqnoiio
tlgan,jaohjtvaddlogjsldvjoqlgv inkjsvijvahjtaccqhfjDvlkjsakjdij qjvlk
rlqhjajdqnnqjois;jdvqjviwqjsvqnqjvlkjklkdqnkjaohjvlkjhaxgvdqnjhsqcdfjDvq
caxgvdqnjiejbixogjrqircqjsakjvqanhjixdjxohqnjdvqjdnqqk,jaohjsldvlojdvq
vixkqjsvqnqjCajRqdldqjsakjrcablogjxriojdvqjrlaoifjSldvjdvqjqodvxklakw
iejajbixogjandlkdjkvqjhnqsjeniwjdvqjuqbkjkdnalokjdvadjkqqwqhjwanpqcixkcb
 qaxdlexcjdijWaw'kqccqjRaxcloq,jsvijkdiihjqonardxnqhjoqanjvqnfjWaw'kqccq
Raxcloqjvahj qqojdixtvqhj bjdvqjnq-tnqadliojiejPacwqdfjVqnjtvqqujsakjak
exccjaohjacwikdjakjecxkvqhjakjCajRqdldq'kfjDvqjbqankjsqnqjeacclogjasab
eniwjvqnf

Wa'awqjRqcaglqjvahj qqojtiopqnklogjsldvjvqnj nidvqnjaohjvlkjenlqohkf
Dvqojkvqjdxnoqhjaohjsacuqhjasab;jkdirrlogjdijclkdqojasvlcqjdijdvqjwxklt
svltvjCajRqdldqjsakjwaulogfj xdjldjsakjiocbjeinjajwiwqodfjKvqjsqodjio
anixohjdvqjtxnpqjiejdvqjpqnaoha,jsvqnqjkvqjeixohjvqnkqcejacioqfjKvq
kdabqhjdvqnq,jqnqtd,jvichlogjdijdvqj aolkdqnjnalcjaohjciiulogjixdjtacwcb
lojdvqjhlkdaotqjatnikkjdvqjelqchkf

Kvqjsakjhnqkkqhjloj catu,jsldvjdvqjsvldqjuqntvlqejkvqjacsabkjsinqjeichqh
atnikkjvqnj ikiwfjVqnjdvltu,jgcikkbjvalnjnikqjcluqjajklcpqnjhlahqwjeniw
vqnj nisfjLojvqnjhqqr,jhanujqbqkjkwixchqnqhjdvqjclgvdjiejelnqkjdvad
sixchjoqpqnjecawqfjKvqjvahjgnisojpqnbjichfjBqankjlokdqahjiejwiodvk
kqqwqhjdijvapqjrakkqhjipqnjvqnjklotqjdvqjolgvdjkvqj ahqjeanqsqccjdijvqn
plkliokf

RiinjWa'awqjRqcaglq!jVisjtixchjldj qjhleeqnqod!jSvlcqjdvqjixdsanh
rnqkkxnqjiejajbixogjaohjzibixkjqylkdqotqjvahjeintqhjvqnjeiidkdqrkjlodi
dvqjclgvd,jvqnjkixcjvahjkdabqhjlojdvqjkvahisjiejdvqjnxlof





HQKLNQQ'Kj A B


Akjdvqjhabjsakjrcqakaod,jWahawqjPacwiohqjhnipqjipqnjdijC'A nljdijkqq
Hqklnqqjaohjdvqj a bf

LdjwahqjvqnjcaxgvjdijdvloujiejHqklnqqjsldvjaj a bfjSvb,jldjkqqwqh
 xdjbqkdqnhabjdvadjHqklnqqjsakjclddcqjwinqjdvaojaj a bjvqnkqce;jsvqo
WioklqxnjlojnlhlogjdvnixgvjdvqjgadqsabjiejPacwiohqjvahjeixohjvqnjcblog
akcqqrjlojdvqjkvahisjiejdvqj lgjkdioqjrlccanf

Dvqjclddcqjioqjasiuqjlojvlkjanwkjaohj qgaojdijtnbjeinj“Hahaf”jDvad
sakjakjwxtvjakjkvqjtixchjhijinjkabfjKiwqjrqircqjdvixgvdjkvqjwlgvdjvapq
kdnabqhjdvqnqjiejvqnjisojattinh,jeinjkvqjsakjiejdvqjdihhclogjagqfjDvq
rnqpalclogj qclqejsakjdvadjkvqjvahj qqojrxnrikqcbjcqedj bjajrandbjie
Dqyaok,jsvikqjtaopak-tipqnqhjsagio,jcadqjlojdvqjhab,jvahjtnikkqhjdvq
eqnnbjdvadjTidiojWalkjuqrd,jzxkdj qcisjdvqjrcaodadliofjLojdlwqjWahawq
Pacwiohqja aohioqhjqpqnbjkrqtxcadlioj xdjdvqjioqjdvadjHqklnqqjvahj qqo
kqodjdijvqnj bjaj qoqeltqodjRniplhqotqjdij qjdvqjtvlchjiejvqnjaeeqtdlio,
kqqlogjdvadjkvqjsakjsldvixdjtvlchjiejdvqjecqkvfjEinjdvqjglncjgnqsjdij q
 qaxdlexcjaohjgqodcq,jaeeqtdlioadqjaohjklotqnq,--dvqjlhicjiejPacwiohqf

Ldjsakjoijsiohqn,jsvqojkvqjkdiihjioqjhabjagalokdjdvqjkdioqjrlccanjlo
svikqjkvahisjkvqjvahjcalojakcqqr,jqlgvdqqojbqankj qeinq,jdvadjAnwaoh
Ax lgobjnlhlogj bjaohjkqqlogjvqnjdvqnq,jvahjeaccqojlojcipqjsldvjvqnf
DvadjsakjdvqjsabjaccjdvqjAx lgobkjeqccjlojcipq,jakjlejkdnxtuj bjajrlkdic
kvidfjDvqjsiohqnjsakjdvadjvqjvahjoidjcipqhjvqnj qeinq;jeinjvqjvahjuoiso
vqnjklotqjvlkjeadvqnj nixgvdjvlwjviwqjeniwjRanlk,jaj ibjiejqlgvd,jaedqn
vlkjwidvqnjhlqhjdvqnqfjDvqjrakkliojdvadjasiuqjlojvlwjdvadjhab,jsvqojvq
kasjvqnjadjdvqjgadq,jksqrdjaciogjcluqjaojapacaotvq,jinjcluqjajrnalnlq
elnq,jinjcluqjaobdvlogjdvadjhnlpqkjvqahciogjipqnjaccji kdatcqkf

WioklqxnjPacwiohqjgnqsjrnatdltacjaohjsaodqhjdvlogkjsqccjtioklhqnqh:jdvad
lk,jdvqjglnc'kji ktxnqjinlglofjAnwaohjciiuqhjlodijvqnjqbqkjaohjhlhjoid
tanqfjVqjsakjnqwlohqhjdvadjkvqjsakjoawqcqkkfjSvadjhlhjldjwaddqnja ixdja
oawqjsvqojvqjtixchjglpqjvqnjioqjiejdvqjichqkdjaohjrnixhqkdjlojCixlklaoa?
Vqjinhqnqhjdvqjtin qlccqjeniwjRanlk,jaohjtiodaloqhjvlwkqcejsldvjsvad
radlqotqjvqjtixchjxodlcjldjannlpqh;jdvqojdvqbjsqnqjwannlqhf

WahawqjPacwiohqjvahjoidjkqqojHqklnqqjaohjdvqj a bjeinjeixnjsqqukfjSvqo
kvqjnqatvqhjC'A nljkvqjkvxhhqnqhjadjdvqjelnkdjklgvdjiejld,jakjkvqjacsabk
hlhfjLdjsakjajkahjciiulogjrcatq,jsvltvjeinjwaobjbqankjvahjoidjuoisojdvq
gqodcqjrnqkqotqjiejajwlkdnqkk,jichjWioklqxnjAx lgobjvaplogjwannlqhjaoh
 xnlqhjvlkjsleqjlojEnaotq,jaohjkvqjvaplogjcipqhjvqnjisojcaohjdiijsqcc
qpqnjdijcqapqjldfjDvqjniiejtawqjhisojkdqqrjaohj catujcluqjajtisc,
nqatvlogjixdj qbiohjdvqjslhqjgaccqnlqkjdvadjqotlntcqhjdvqjbqccis
kdxttiqhjvixkqfj lg,jkicqwojiaukjgnqsjtcikqjdijld,jaohjdvqln
dvltu-cqapqh,jean-nqatvlogj naotvqkjkvahisqhjldjcluqjajraccfjBixog
Ax lgob'kjnxcqjsakjajkdnltdjioq,jdii,jaohjxohqnjldjvlkjoqgniqkjvah
eingiddqojvisjdij qjgab,jakjdvqbjvahj qqojhxnlogjdvqjichjwakdqn'k
qakb-gilogjaohjlohxcgqodjcleqdlwqf

Dvqjbixogjwidvqnjsakjnqtipqnlogjkciscb,jaohjcabjexccjcqogdv,jlojvqnjkied
svldqjwxkclokjaohjcatqk,jxriojajtixtvfjDvqj a bjsakj qklhqjvqn,jxriojvqn
anw,jsvqnqjvqjvahjeaccqojakcqqr,jadjvqnj nqakdfjDvqjbqccisjoxnkqjsiwao
kadj qklhqjajslohisjeaoologjvqnkqcef

WahawqjPacwiohqj qodjvqnjrindcbjelgxnqjipqnjHqklnqqjaohjulkkqhjvqn,
vichlogjvqnjaojlokdaodjdqohqncbjlojvqnjanwkfjDvqojkvqjdxnoqhjdijdvq
tvlchf

“Dvlkjlkjoidjdvqj a b!”jkvqjqytcalwqh,jlojkdandcqhjdioqkfjEnqotvjsakjdvq
caogxagqjkriuqojadjPacwiohqjlojdvikqjhabkf

“Ljuoqsjbixjsixchj qjakdiolkvqh,”jcaxgvqhjHqklnqq,j“adjdvqjsabjvqjvak
gnisofjDvqjclddcqjtitviojhqjcald!jCiiujadjvlkjcqgk,jwawwa,jaohjvlk
vaohkjaohjelogqnoalck,--nqacjelogqn-oalckfjMaohnloqjvahjdijtxdjdvqwjdvlk
winologfjLko'djldjdnxq,jMaohnloq?”

Dvqjsiwaoj isqhjvqnjdxn aoqhjvqahjwazqkdltaccb,j“Walkjkl,jWahawqf”

“Aohjdvqjsabjvqjtnlqk,”jsqodjiojHqklnqq,j“lkjhqaeqologfjAnwaohjvqanhjvlw
dvqjidvqnjhabjakjeanjasabjakjCaj caotvq'kjta lof”

WahawqjPacwiohqjvahjoqpqnjnqwipqhjvqnjqbqkjeniwjdvqjtvlchfjKvqjcledqhjld
aohjsacuqhjsldvjldjipqnjdijdvqjslohisjdvadjsakjclgvdqkdfjKvqjktaooqhjdvq
 a bjoanniscb,jdvqojciiuqhjakjkqantvlogcbjadjMaohnloq,jsvikqjeatqjsak
dxnoqhjdijgamqjatnikkjdvqjelqchkf

“Bqk,jdvqjtvlchjvakjgniso,jvakjtvaogqh,”jkalhjWahawqjPacwiohq,jkciscb,
akjkvqjnqrcatqhjldj qklhqjldkjwidvqnfj“SvadjhiqkjAnwaohjkab?”

Hqklnqq'kjeatqj qtawqjkxeexkqhjsldvjajgcisjdvadjsakjvarrloqkkjldkqcef

“Iv,jAnwaohjlkjdvqjrnixhqkdjeadvqnjlojdvqjranlkv,jLj qclqpq,jtvlqecb
 qtaxkqjldjlkjaj ib,jdij qanjvlkjoawq;jdvixgvjvqjkabkjoid,--dvadjvq
sixchjvapqjcipqhjajglncjakjsqccfj xdjLjuoisjldjlko'djdnxqfjLjuoisjvq
kabkjdvadjdijrcqakqjwqfjAohjwawwa,”jkvqjahhqh,jhnaslogjWahawqjPacwiohq'k
vqahjhisojdijvqn,jaohjkrqaulogjlojajsvlkrqn,j“vqjvako'djrxolkvqhjioqjie
dvqw--oidjioqjiejdvqw--klotqj a bjlkj inofjQpqojOqgnlccio,jsvijrnqdqohqh
dijvapqj xnodjvlkjcqgjdvadjvqjwlgvdjnqkdjeniwjsinu--vqjiocbjcaxgvqh,jaoh
kalhjOqgnlcciojsakjajgnqadjktawrfjIv,jwawwa,jL'wjkijvarrb;jldjenlgvdqok
wqf”

SvadjHqklnqqjkalhjsakjdnxqfjWannlagq,jaohjcadqnjdvqj lndvjiejvlkjkiojvah
kiedqoqhjAnwaohjAx lgob'kjlwrqnlixkjaohjqyatdlogjoadxnqjgnqadcbf
DvlkjsakjsvadjwahqjdvqjgqodcqjHqklnqqjkijvarrb,jeinjkvqjcipqhjvlw
hqkrqnadqcbfjSvqojvqjenisoqhjkvqjdnqw cqh,j xdjcipqhjvlwfjSvqojvq
kwlcqh,jkvqjakuqhjoijgnqadqnj cqkklogjiejGihfj xdjAnwaoh'kjhanu,
vaohkiwqjeatqjvahjoidjiedqoj qqojhlkelgxnqhj bjenisokjklotqjdvqjhabjvq
eqccjlojcipqjsldvjvqnf

Svqojdvqj a bjsakja ixdjdvnqqjwiodvkjich,jHqklnqqjasiuqjioqjhabjdijdvq
tiopltdliojdvadjdvqnqjsakjkiwqdvlogjlojdvqjalnjwqoatlogjvqnjrqatqf
Ldjsakjadjelnkdjdiijkx dcqjdijgnakrfjLdjvahjiocbj qqojajhlk.xlqdlog
kxggqkdlio;jaojalnjiejwbkdqnbjawiogjdvqj catuk;jxoqyrqtdqhjplkldkjeniw
ean-ieejoqlgv inkjsvijtixchjvanhcbjattixodjeinjdvqlnjtiwlogfjDvqoja
kdnaogq,jaojasexcjtvaogqjlojvqnjvxk aoh'kjwaooqn,jsvltvjkvqjhanqhjoid
akujvlwjdijqyrcalofjSvqojvqjkriuqjdijvqn,jldjsakjsldvjapqndqhjqbqk,jeniw
svltvjdvqjichjcipq-clgvdjkqqwqhjdijvapqjgioqjixdfjVqja kqodqhjvlwkqce
eniwjviwq;jaohjsvqojdvqnq,japilhqhjvqnjrnqkqotqjaohjdvadjiejvqnjtvlch,
sldvixdjqytxkqfjAohjdvqjpqnbjkrlnldjiejKadaojkqqwqhjkxhhqocbjdijdauq
vichjiejvlwjlojvlkjhqaclogkjsldvjdvqjkcapqkfjHqklnqqjsakjwlkqna cq
qoixgvjdijhlqf

Kvqjkadjlojvqnjniiw,jioqjvidjaedqnoiio,jlojvqnjrqlgoiln,jclkdcqkkcb
hnaslogjdvnixgvjvqnjelogqnkjdvqjkdnaohkjiejvqnjciog,jklcubj nisojvaln
dvadjvxogja ixdjvqnjkvixchqnkfjDvqj a b,jvacejoauqh,jcabjakcqqrjxrio
vqnjisojgnqadjwavigaobj qh,jdvadjsakjcluqjajkxwrdxixkjdvnioq,jsldvjldk
kadlo-cloqhjvace-taoirbfjIoqjiejCaj caotvq'kjclddcqj.xahniioj ibk--vace
oauqhjdii--kdiihjeaoologjdvqjtvlchjkciscbjsldvjajeaojiejrqatitu
eqadvqnkfjHqklnqq'kjqbqkjvahj qqojelyqhja kqodcbjaohjkahcbjxriojdvq
 a b,jsvlcqjkvqjsakjkdnlplogjdijrqoqdnadqjdvqjdvnqadqologjwlkdjdvadjkvq
eqcdjtciklogja ixdjvqnfjKvqjciiuqhjeniwjvqnjtvlchjdijdvqj ibjsvijkdiih
 qklhqjvlw,jaohj atujagalo;jipqnjaohjipqnfj“Av!”jLdjsakjajtnbjdvadjkvq
tixchjoidjvqcr;jsvltvjkvqjsakjoidjtioktlixkjiejvaplogjxddqnqhfjDvqj ciih
dxnoqhjcluqjltqjlojvqnjpqlok,jaohjajtcawwbjwilkdxnqjgadvqnqhjxriojvqn
eatqf

Kvqjdnlqhjdijkrqaujdijdvqjclddcqj.xahniioj ib;j xdjoijkixohjsixchjtiwq,
adjelnkdfjSvqojvqjvqanhjvlkjoawqjxddqnqh,jvqjciiuqhjxr,jaohjvlkjwlkdnqkk
sakjrilodlogjdijdvqjhiinfjVqjcalhjaklhqjdvqjgnqad,jkiedjeao,jaoh
i qhlqodcbjkdicqjasab,jipqnjdvqjriclkvqhjeciin,jiojvlkj anqjdlrdiqkf

Kvqjkdabqhjwidliocqkk,jsldvjgamqjnlpqdqhjxriojvqnjtvlch,jaohjvqnjeatq
dvqjrltdxnqjiejenlgvdf

Rnqkqodcbjvqnjvxk aohjqodqnqhjdvqjniiw,jaohjsldvixdjoidltlogjvqn,jsqod
dijajda cqjaohj qgaojdijkqantvjawiogjkiwqjrarqnkjsvltvjtipqnqhjldf

“Anwaoh,”jkvqjtaccqhjdijvlw,jlojajpiltqjsvltvjwxkdjvapqjkda  qhjvlw,jle
vqjsakjvxwaofj xdjvqjhlhjoidjoidltqfj“Anwaoh,”jkvqjkalhjagalofjDvqojkvq
nikqjaohjdiddqnqhjdisanhkjvlwfj“Anwaoh,”jkvqjraodqhjiotqjwinq,jtcxdtvlog
vlkjanw,j“ciiujadjixnjtvlchfjSvadjhiqkjldjwqao?jdqccjwqf”

Vqjtichcbj xdjgqodcbjciikqoqhjvqnjelogqnkjeniwja ixdjvlkjanwjaohjdvnxkd
dvqjvaohjasabjeniwjvlwfj“Dqccjwqjsvadjldjwqaok!”jkvqjtnlqhjhqkralnlogcbf

“Ldjwqaok,”jvqjaoksqnqhjclgvdcb,j“dvadjdvqjtvlchjlkjoidjsvldq;jldjwqaok
dvadjbixjanqjoidjsvldqf”

Aj.xltujtiotqrdliojiejaccjdvadjdvlkjattxkadliojwqaodjeinjvqnjoqnpqhjvqn
sldvjxosiodqhjtixnagqjdijhqobjldfj“Ldjlkjajclq;jldjlkjoidjdnxq,jLjaw
svldq!jCiiujadjwbjvaln,jldjlkj niso;jaohjwbjqbqkjanqjgnab,jAnwaoh,jbix
uoisjdvqbjanqjgnabfjAohjwbjkulojlkjealn,”jkqlmlogjvlkjsnlkdfj“Ciiujadjwb
vaoh;jsvldqnjdvaojbixnk,jAnwaoh,”jkvqjcaxgvqhjvbkdqnltaccbf

“AkjsvldqjakjCaj caotvq'k,”jvqjnqdxnoqhjtnxqccb;jaohjsqodjasabjcqaplog
vqnjacioqjsldvjdvqlnjtvlchf

Svqojkvqjtixchjvichjajrqojlojvqnjvaoh,jkvqjkqodjajhqkralnlogjcqddqnjdi
WahawqjPacwiohqf

“Wbjwidvqn,jdvqbjdqccjwqjLjawjoidjsvldqfjAnwaohjvakjdichjwqjLjawjoid
svldqfjEinjGih'kjkauqjdqccjdvqwjldjlkjoidjdnxqfjBixjwxkdjuoisjldjlkjoid
dnxqfjLjkvaccjhlqfjLjwxkdjhlqfjLjtaooidj qjkijxovarrb,jaohjclpqf”

Dvqjaoksqnjdvadjtawqjsakj nlqe:

“WbjisojHqklnqq:jTiwqjviwqjdijPacwiohq;j atujdijbixnjwidvqnjsvijcipqk
bixfjTiwqjsldvjbixnjtvlchf”

SvqojdvqjcqddqnjnqatvqhjHqklnqqjkvqjsqodjsldvjldjdijvqnjvxk aoh'kjkdxhb,
aohjcalhjldjirqojxriojdvqjhqkuj qeinqjsvltvjvqjkadfjKvqjsakjcluqjajkdioq
lwagq:jklcqod,jsvldq,jwidliocqkkjaedqnjkvqjrcatqhjldjdvqnqf

Lojklcqotqjvqjnaojvlkjtichjqbqkjipqnjdvqjsnlddqojsinhkf

Vqjkalhjoidvlogfj“KvaccjLjgi,jAnwaoh?”jkvqjakuqhjlojdioqkjkvanrjsldv
agiolmqhjkxkrqokqf

“Bqk,jgif”

“Hijbixjsaodjwqjdijgi?”

“Bqk,jLjsaodjbixjdijgif”

VqjdvixgvdjAcwlgvdbjGihjvahjhqacdjtnxqccbjaohjxozxkdcbjsldvjvlw;jaoh
eqcd,jkiwqvis,jdvadjvqjsakjrablogjVlwj atujlojulohjsvqojvqjkda  qhjdvxk
lodijvlkjsleq'kjkixcfjWinqipqnjvqjoijciogqnjcipqhjvqn,j qtaxkqjiejdvq
xotioktlixkjlozxnbjkvqjvahj nixgvdjxriojvlkjviwqjaohjvlkjoawqf

Kvqjdxnoqhjasabjcluqjioqjkdxooqhj bjaj cis,jaohjsacuqhjkciscbjdisanhk
dvqjhiin,jvirlogjvqjsixchjtaccjvqnj atuf

“Giih- b,jAnwaoh,”jkvqjwiaoqhf

VqjhlhjoidjaoksqnjvqnfjDvadjsakjvlkjcakdj cisjadjeadqf

HqklnqqjsqodjlojkqantvjiejvqnjtvlchfjMaohnloqjsakjratlogjdvqjkiw nq
gaccqnbjsldvjldfjKvqjdiiujdvqjclddcqjioqjeniwjdvqjoxnkq'kjanwkjsldvjoi
sinhjiejqyrcaoadlio,jaohjhqktqohlogjdvqjkdqrk,jsacuqhjasab,jxohqnjdvq
clpq-iauj naotvqkf

LdjsakjaojItdi qnjaedqnoiio;jdvqjkxojsakjzxkdjkloulogfjIxdjlojdvqjkdlcc
elqchkjdvqjoqgniqkjsqnqjrltulogjtiddiof

Hqklnqqjvahjoidjtvaogqhjdvqjdvlojsvldqjganwqodjoinjdvqjkclrrqnkjsvltv
kvqjsinqfjVqnjvalnjsakjxotipqnqhjaohjdvqjkxo'kjnabkj nixgvdjajgichqo
gcqawjeniwjldkj nisojwqkvqkfjKvqjhlhjoidjdauqjdvqj niah,j qadqojniah
svltvjcqhjdijdvqjean-ieejrcaodadliojiejPacwiohqfjKvqjsacuqhjatnikkja
hqkqndqhjelqch,jsvqnqjdvqjkdx  cqj nxlkqhjvqnjdqohqnjeqqd,jkijhqcltadqcb
kvih,jaohjdinqjvqnjdvlojgisojdijkvnqhkf

Kvqjhlkarrqanqhjawiogjdvqjnqqhkjaohjslcciskjdvadjgnqsjdvltujaciogjdvq
 aoukjiejdvqjhqqr,jkcxgglkvj abix;jaohjkvqjhlhjoidjtiwqj atujagalof



KiwqjsqqukjcadqnjdvqnqjsakjajtxnlixkjktqoqjqoatdqhjadjC'A nlfjLojdvq
tqodnqjiejdvqjkwiidvcbjksqrdj atujbanhjsakjajgnqadj ioelnqfjAnwaoh
Ax lgobjkadjlojdvqjslhqjvaccsabjdvadjtiwwaohqhjajplqsjiejdvqjkrqtdatcq;
aohjldjsakjvqjsvijhqacdjixdjdijajvacejhimqojoqgniqkjdvqjwadqnlacjsvltv
uqrdjdvlkjelnqja camqf

Ajgnatqexcjtnahcqjiejslccis,jsldvjaccjldkjhalodbjexn lkvlogk,jsak
calhjxriojdvqjrbnq,jsvltvjvahjacnqahbj qqojeqhjsldvjdvqjnltvoqkkjieja
rnltqcqkkjcabqddqfjDvqojdvqnqjsqnqjklcujgisok,jaohjpqcpqdjaohjkadlojioqk
ahhqhjdijdvqkq;jcatqk,jdii,jaohjqw nilhqnlqk;j iooqdkjaohjgcipqk;jein
dvqjtin qlccqjvahj qqojiejnanqj.xacldbf

Dvqjcakdjdvlogjdijgijsakjajdlobj xohcqjiejcqddqnk;jlooitqodjclddcq
ktnl  clogkjdvadjHqklnqqjvahjkqodjdijvlwjhxnlogjdvqjhabkjiejdvqln
qkrixkacfjDvqnqjsakjdvqjnqwoaodjiejioqj atujlojdvqjhnasqnjeniwjsvltvjvq
diiujdvqwfj xdjldjsakjoidjHqklnqq'k;jldjsakjrandjiejaojichjcqddqnjeniw
vlkjwidvqnjdijvlkjeadvqnfjVqjnqahjldfjKvqjsakjdvaoulogjGihjeinjdvq
 cqkklogjiejvqnjvxk aoh'kjcipq:--

“ xdja ipqjacc,”jkvqjsnidq,j“olgvdjaohjhab,jLjdvaoujdvqjgiihjGihjein
vaplogjkijannaogqhjixnjclpqkjdvadjixnjhqanjAnwaohjslccjoqpqnjuoisjdvad
vlkjwidvqn,jsvijahinqkjvlw,j qciogkjdijdvqjnatqjdvadjlkjtxnkqhjsldvjdvq
 naohjiejkcapqnbf”





AjNQKRQTDA CQjSIWAO


Wnkfj anihajsakjajclddcqjrnipiuqhjdijcqanojdvadjvqnjvxk aohjqyrqtdqhjvlk
enlqoh,jGixpqnoalc,jxrjdijkrqohjajsqqujinjdsijiojdvqjrcaodadliof

Dvqbjvahjqodqndaloqhjajgiihjhqacjhxnlogjdvqjslodqn;jwxtvjiejdvqjdlwqjvah
ackij qqojrakkqhjlojOqsjIncqaokjlojpanlixkjeinwkjiejwlchjhlkklradliof
Kvqjsakjciiulogjeinsanhjdijajrqnlihjiejxo niuqojnqkd,jois,jaoh
xohlkdxn qhjdqdq-a-dqdqjsldvjvqnjvxk aoh,jsvqojvqjloeinwqhjvqnjdvad
Gixpqnoalcjsakjtiwlogjxrjdijkdabjajsqqujinjdsif

Dvlkjsakjajwaojkvqjvahjvqanhjwxtvjiej xdjoqpqnjkqqofjVqjvahj qqojvqn
vxk aoh'kjticcqgqjenlqoh;jsakjoisjajzixnoaclkd,jaohjlojoijkqokqja
kitlqdbjwaojinj“ajwaoja ixdjdiso,”jsvltvjsqnq,jrqnvark,jkiwqjiejdvq
nqakiokjkvqjvahjoqpqnjwqdjvlwfj xdjkvqjvahjxotioktlixkcbjeinwqhjao
lwagqjiejvlwjlojvqnjwlohfjKvqjrltdxnqhjvlwjdacc,jkclw,jtboltac;jsldv
qbq-gcakkqk,jaohjvlkjvaohkjlojvlkjrituqdk;jaohjkvqjhlhjoidjcluqjvlwf
Gixpqnoalcjsakjkclwjqoixgv,j xdjvqjsako'djpqnbjdaccjoinjpqnbjtboltac;
oqldvqnjhlhjvqjsqanjqbqgcakkqkjoinjtannbjvlkjvaohkjlojvlkjrituqdkfjAoh
kvqjnadvqnjcluqhjvlwjsvqojvqjelnkdjrnqkqodqhjvlwkqcef

 xdjsvbjkvqjcluqhjvlwjkvqjtixchjoidjqyrcalojkadlkeatdinlcbjdijvqnkqce
svqojkvqjrandcbjaddqwrdqhjdijhijkifjKvqjtixchjhlktipqnjlojvlwjoioqjie
dvikqj nlcclaodjaohjrniwlklogjdnaldkjsvltvjGakdio,jvqnjvxk aoh,jvah
iedqojakkxnqhjvqnjdvadjvqjrikkqkkqhfjIojdvqjtiodnanb,jvqjkadjnadvqnjwxdq
aohjnqtqrdlpqj qeinqjvqnjtvaddbjqagqnoqkkjdijwauqjvlwjeqqcjadjviwq
aohjlojeatqjiejGakdio'kjenaoujaohjsinhbjvikrldacldbfjVlkjwaooqnjsakjak
tixndqixkjdisanhjvqnjakjdvqjwikdjqyatdlogjsiwaojtixchjnq.xlnq;j xdjvq
wahqjoijhlnqtdjarrqacjdijvqnjarrnipacjinjqpqojqkdqqwf

Iotqjkqddcqhjadjdvqjrcaodadliojvqjkqqwqhjdijcluqjdijkldjxriojdvqjslhq
rindltijlojdvqjkvahqjiejioqjiejdvqj lgjTinlodvlaojrlccank,jkwiulogjvlk
tlganjcamlcbjaohjclkdqologjaddqodlpqcbjdijGakdio'kjqyrqnlqotqjakjajkxgan
rcaodqnf

“DvlkjlkjsvadjLjtaccjclplog,”jvqjsixchjxddqnjsldvjhqqrjkadlkeatdlio,jak
dvqjalnjdvadjksqrdjatnikkjdvqjkxganjelqchjtanqkkqhjvlwjsldvjldkjsanwjaoh
ktqodqhjpqcpqdbjdixtvfjLdjrcqakqhjvlwjackijdijgqdjiojeawlclanjdqnwkjsldv
dvqj lgjhigkjdvadjtawqja ixdjvlw,jnx  logjdvqwkqcpqkjkitla cbjagalokd
vlkjcqgkfjVqjhlhjoidjtanqjdijelkv,jaohjhlkrcabqhjoijqagqnoqkkjdijgijixd
aohjulccjgnik qtkjsvqojGakdiojrnirikqhjhilogjkif

Gixpqnoalc'kjrqnkioacldbjrxmmcqhjWnkfj aniha,j xdjkvqjcluqhjvlwfjLohqqh,
vqjsakjajcipa cq,jloieeqoklpqjeqccisfjAedqnjajeqsjhabk,jsvqojkvqjtixch
xohqnkdaohjvlwjoij qddqnjdvaojadjelnkd,jkvqjgapqjipqnj qlogjrxmmcqhjaoh
nqwaloqhjrl.xqhfjLojdvlkjwiihjkvqjcqedjvqnjvxk aohjaohjvqnjgxqkd,jein
dvqjwikdjrand,jacioqjdigqdvqnfjDvqojelohlogjdvadjGixpqnoalcjdiiujoi
waooqnjiejqytqrdliojdijvqnjatdlio,jkvqjlwrikqhjvqnjkitlqdbjxriojvlw,
attiwraoblogjvlwjlojvlkjlhcqjkdnicckjdijdvqjwlccjaohjsacukjaciogjdvq
 addxnqfjKvqjrqnklkdqodcbjkixgvdjdijrqoqdnadqjdvqjnqkqnpqjlojsvltvjvq
vahjxotioktlixkcbjqopqcirqhjvlwkqcef

“Svqojlkjvqjgilog--bixnjenlqoh?”jkvqjioqjhabjakuqhjvqnjvxk aohfj“Einjwb
rand,jvqjdlnqkjwqjenlgvdexccbf”

“Oidjeinjajsqqujbqd,jhqanfjLjtao'djxohqnkdaoh;jvqjglpqkjbixjoijdnix cqf”

“OifjLjkvixchjcluqjvlwj qddqnjlejvqjhlh;jlejvqjsqnqjwinqjcluqjidvqnk,
aohjLjvahjdijrcaojkiwqsvadjeinjvlkjtiweindjaohjqozibwqodf”

Gakdiojdiiujvlkjsleq'kjrnqddbjeatqj qdsqqojvlkjvaohkjaohjciiuqhjdqohqncb
aohjcaxgvlogcbjlodijvqnjdnix cqhjqbqkf

Dvqbjsqnqjwaulogjaj ldjiejdilcqdjkitla cbjdigqdvqnjlojWnkfj aniha'k
hnqkklog-niiwf

“Bixjanqjexccjiejkxnrnlkqk,jwaj qccq,”jvqjkalhjdijvqnfj“QpqojLjtaojoqpqn
tixodjxriojvisjbixjanqjgilogjdijatdjxohqnjglpqojtiohldliokf”jVqjulkkqh
vqnjaohjdxnoqhjdijeakdqojvlkjtnapadj qeinqjdvqjwlnninf

“Vqnqjbixjanq,”jvqjsqodjio,j“daulogjriinjGixpqnoalcjkqnlixkcbjaohjwaulog
ajtiwwidliojipqnjvlw,jdvqjcakdjdvlogjvqjsixchjhqklnqjinjqyrqtdf”

“Tiwwidlio!”jkvqjvidcbjnqkqodqhfj“Oiokqokq!jVisjtaojbixjkabjkxtvja
dvlog?jTiwwidlio,jlohqqh!j xd,jbixjuois,jbixjkalhjvqjsakjtcqpqnf”

“Kijvqjlkfj xdjdvqjriinjeqccisjlkjnxojhisoj bjipqnsinujoisfjDvad'kjsvbjL
akuqhjvlwjvqnqjdijdauqjajnqkdf”

“Bixjxkqhjdijkabjvqjsakjajwaojiejlhqak,”jkvqjnqdindqh,jxotiotlcladqhfj“L
qyrqtdqhjvlwjdij qjlodqnqkdlog,jadjcqakdfjL'wjgilogjdijdvqjtldbjlojdvq
winologjdijvapqjwbjkrnlogjgisokjelddqhfjCqdjwqjuoisjsvqojWnfjGixpqnoalc
lkjgioq;jLjkvaccj qjadjwbjAxodjItdaplq'kf”

Dvadjolgvdjkvqjsqodjaohjkadjacioqjxriojaj qotvjdvadjkdiihj qoqadvjajclpq
iaujdnqqjadjdvqjqhgqjiejdvqjgnapqcjsacuf

Kvqjvahjoqpqnjuoisojvqnjdvixgvdkjinjvqnjlodqodliokjdij qjkijtioexkqhf
Kvqjtixchjgadvqnjoidvlogjeniwjdvqwj xdjdvqjeqqclogjiejajhlkdlotd
oqtqkkldbjdij.xldjvqnjviwqjlojdvqjwinologf

Wnkfj anihajvqanhjeiidkdqrkjtnxotvlogjdvqjgnapqc;j xdjtixchjhlktqnojlo
dvqjhanuoqkkjiocbjdvqjarrniatvlogjnqhjrilodjiejajclgvdqhjtlganfjKvqjuoqs
ldjsakjGixpqnoalc,jeinjvqnjvxk aohjhlhjoidjkwiuqfjKvqjvirqhjdijnqwalo
xooidltqh,j xdjvqnjsvldqjgisojnqpqacqhjvqnjdijvlwfjVqjdvnqsjasabjvlk
tlganjaohjkqadqhjvlwkqcejxriojdvqj qotvj qklhqjvqn;jsldvixdjajkxkrltlio
dvadjkvqjwlgvdji zqtdjdijvlkjrnqkqotqf

“Bixnjvxk aohjdichjwqjdij nlogjdvlkjdijbix,jWnkfj aniha,”jvqjkalh,
vaohlogjvqnjajelcwb,jsvldqjktanejsldvjsvltvjkvqjkiwqdlwqkjqopqcirqhjvqn
vqahjaohjkvixchqnkfjKvqjattqrdqhjdvqjktanejeniwjvlwjsldvjajwxnwxnjie
dvaouk,jaohjcqdjldjclqjlojvqnjcarf

Vqjwahqjkiwqjtiwwiorcatqji kqnpadliojxriojdvqj aoqexcjqeeqtdjiejdvq
olgvdjalnjadjdvqjkqakiofjDvqojakjvlkjgamqjnqatvqhjixdjlodijdvqjhanuoqkk,
vqjwxnwxnqh,jvacejdijvlwkqce:

“'Olgvdjiejkixdvjslohk--olgvdjiejdvqjcangqjeqsjkdank!jKdlccjoihhlog
olgvd--'”

Kvqjwahqjoijnqrcbjdijdvlkjarikdnirvqjdijdvqjolgvd,jsvltv,jlohqqh,jsak
oidjahhnqkkqhjdijvqnf

Gixpqnoalcjsakjlojoijkqokqjajhleelhqodjwao,jeinjvqjsakjoidja
kqce-tioktlixkjioqfjVlkjrqnlihkjiejnqkqnpqjsqnqjoidjtiokdldxdlioac,
 xdjdvqjnqkxcdjiejwiihkfjKlddlogjdvqnqj qklhqjWnkfj aniha,jvlkjklcqotq
wqcdqhjeinjdvqjdlwqf

Vqjdacuqhjenqqcbjaohjlodlwadqcbjlojajcis,jvqkldadlogjhnascjdvadjsakjoid
xorcqakaodjdijvqanfjVqjdacuqhjiejdvqjichjticcqgqjhabkjsvqojvqjaoh
Gakdiojvahj qqojajgiihjhqacjdijqatvjidvqn;jiejdvqjhabkjiejuqqojaohj cloh
aw ldliokjaohjcangqjlodqodliokfjOisjdvqnqjsakjcqedjsldvjvlw,jadjcqakd,
ajrvlcikirvltjat.xlqktqotqjdijdvqjqylkdlogjinhqn--iocbjajhqklnqjdij q
rqnwlddqhjdijqylkd,jsldvjoisjaohjdvqojajclddcqjsvleejiejgqoxloqjcleq,
kxtvjakjvqjsakj nqadvlogjoisf

VqnjwlohjiocbjpagxqcbjgnakrqhjsvadjvqjsakjkablogfjVqnjrvbkltacj qlog
sakjeinjdvqjwiwqodjrnqhiwloaodfjKvqjsakjoidjdvloulogjiejvlkjsinhk,jiocb
hnloulogjlojdvqjdioqkjiejvlkjpiltqfjKvqjsaodqhjdijnqatvjixdjvqnjvaohjlo
dvqjhanuoqkkjaohjdixtvjvlwjsldvjdvqjkqokldlpqjdlrkjiejvqnjelogqnk
xriojdvqjeatqjinjdvqjclrkfjKvqjsaodqhjdijhnasjtcikqjdijvlwjaohjsvlkrqn
agalokdjvlkjtvqqu--kvqjhlhjoidjtanqjsvad--akjkvqjwlgvdjvapqjhioqjlejkvq
vahjoidj qqojajnqkrqtda cqjsiwaof

Dvqjkdniogqnjdvqjlwrxckqjgnqsjdij nlogjvqnkqcejoqanjvlw,jdvqjexndvqn,jlo
eatd,jhlhjkvqjhnasjasabjeniwjvlwfjAkjkiiojakjkvqjtixchjhijkijsldvixdjao
arrqanaotqjiejdiijgnqadjnxhqoqkk,jkvqjnikqjaohjcqedjvlwjdvqnqjacioqf

 qeinqjkvqjnqatvqhjdvqjvixkq,jGixpqnoalcjvahjclgvdqhjajenqkvjtlganjaoh
qohqhjvlkjarikdnirvqjdijdvqjolgvdf

Wnkfj anihajsakjgnqadcbjdqwrdqhjdvadjolgvdjdijdqccjvqnjvxk aoh--svi
sakjackijvqnjenlqoh--iejdvlkjeiccbjdvadjvahjkqlmqhjvqnfj xdjkvqjhlhjoid
blqchjdijdvqjdqwrdadliofj qklhqj qlogjajnqkrqtda cqjsiwaojkvqjsakjajpqnb
kqokl cqjioq;jaohjkvqjuoqsjdvqnqjanqjkiwqj addcqkjlojcleqjsvltvjajvxwao
 qlogjwxkdjelgvdjacioqf

SvqojGakdiojanikqjlojdvqjwinolog,jvlkjsleqjvahjacnqahbjhqrandqhfjKvq
vahjdauqojaojqancbjwinologjdnalojdijdvqjtldbfjKvqjhlhjoidjnqdxnojdlcc
Gixpqnoalcjsakjgioqjeniwjxohqnjvqnjniief

Dvqnqjsakjkiwqjdacujiejvaplogjvlwj atujhxnlogjdvqjkxwwqnjdvadjeiccisqhf
Dvadjlk,jGakdiojgnqadcbjhqklnqhjld;j xdjdvlkjhqklnqjblqchqhjdijvlk
sleq'kjkdnqoxixkjirrikldliof

Visqpqn,j qeinqjdvqjbqanjqohqh,jkvqjrnirikqh,jsviccbjeniwjvqnkqce,
dijvapqjGixpqnoalcjplkldjdvqwjagalofjVqnjvxk aohjsakjkxnrnlkqhjaoh
hqclgvdqhjsldvjdvqjkxggqkdliojtiwlogjeniwjvqnf

“Ljawjgcah,jtvqnqjawlq,jdijuoisjdvadjbixjvapqjeloaccbjipqntiwqjbixn
hlkcluqjeinjvlw;jdnxcbjvqjhlhjoidjhqkqnpqjldf”

“Iv,”jkvqjdichjvlw,jcaxgvlogcb,jaedqnjrnqkklogjajciog,jdqohqnjulkkjxrio
vlkjclrk,j“Ljvapqjipqntiwqjqpqnbdvlog!jbixjslccjkqqfjDvlkjdlwqjLjkvacc
 qjpqnbjoltqjdijvlwf”





DVQjULKK


Ldjsakjkdlccj.xldqjclgvdjixdjiejhiink,j xdjloklhqjsldvjdvqjtxndalok
hnasojaohjdvqjkwixchqnlogjelnqjkqohlogjixdjajhlw,jxotqndalojgcis,jdvq
niiwjsakjexccjiejhqqrjkvahiskf

 naodalojkadjlojioqjiejdvqkqjkvahisk;jldjvahjipqndauqojvlwjaohjvqjhlh
oidjwlohfjDvqji ktxnldbjcqodjvlwjtixnagqjdijuqqrjvlkjqbqkjeakdqoqhjak
anhqodcbjakjvqjcluqhjxriojdvqjglncjsvijkadjlojdvqjelnqclgvdf

Kvqjsakjpqnbjvaohkiwq,jsldvjajtqndalojeloq,jnltvjticinlogjdvadj qciogk
dijdvqjvqacdvbj nxoqjdbrqfjKvqjsakj.xldqjtiwrikqh,jakjkvqjlhcb
kdniuqhjdvqjkadlobjtiadjiejdvqjtadjdvadjcabjtxncqhjlojvqnjcar,jaohjkvq
ittaklioaccbjkqodjajkcisjgcaotqjlodijdvqjkvahisjsvqnqjvqnjtiwraoliojkadf
Dvqbjsqnqjdaculogjcis,jiejlohleeqnqodjdvlogkjsvltvjrcalocbjsqnqjoid
dvqjdvlogkjdvadjittxrlqhjdvqlnjdvixgvdkfjKvqjuoqsjdvadjvqjcipqhjvqn--a
enaou,j cxkdqnlogjeqccisjsldvixdjgxlcqjqoixgvjdijtiotqacjvlkjeqqclogk,
aohjoijhqklnqjdijhijkifjEinjdsijsqqukjrakdjvqjvahjkixgvdjvqnjkitlqdb
qagqncbjaohjrqnklkdqodcbfjKvqjsakjtioelhqodcbjsaldlogjeinjvlwjdijhqtcanq
vlwkqcejaohjkvqjwqaodjdijattqrdjvlwfjDvqjnadvqnjloklgoleltaodjaoh
xoaddnatdlpqj naodalojsakjqoinwixkcbjnltv;jaohjkvqjcluqhjaohjnq.xlnqh
dvqjqodixnagqjsvltvjsqacdvjtixchjglpqjvqnf

Hxnlogjioqjiejdvqjraxkqkj qdsqqojdvqlnjdacujiejdvqjcakdjdqajaohjdvqjoqyd
nqtqrdliojdvqjhiinjirqoqhjaohjajbixogjwaojqodqnqhjsviwj naodalojuoqs
.xldqjsqccfjDvqjglncjdxnoqhjvqnjeatqjdisanhjvlwfjAjkdnlhqjinjdsij nixgvd
vlwjdijvqnjklhq,jaohj qohlogjipqnjvqnjtvaln-- qeinqjkvqjtixchjkxkrqtd
vlkjlodqodlio,jeinjkvqjhlhjoidjnqaclmqjdvadjvqjvahjoidjkqqojvqn
plkldin--vqjrnqkkqhjaojanhqod,jclogqnlogjulkkjxriojvqnjclrkf

 naodalojkciscbjanikq;jkijhlhjdvqjglncjanlkq,j xdj.xltucb,jaohjdvq
oqstiwqnjkdiihj qdsqqojdvqw,jajclddcqjawxkqwqodjaohjkiwqjhqelaotq
kdnxggclogjsldvjdvqjtioexkliojlojvlkjeatqf

“Lj qclqpq,”jkdawwqnqhj naodalo,j“LjkqqjdvadjLjvapqjkdabqhjdiijciogf
L--Ljvahjoijlhqa--dvadjlk,jLjwxkdjslkvjbixjgiih- bf”jVqjsakjtcxdtvlog
vlkjvadjsldvj idvjvaohk,jaohjrni a cbjhlhjoidjrqntqlpqjdvadjkvqjsak
qydqohlogjvqnjvaohjdijvlw,jvqnjrnqkqotqjiejwlohjvahjoidjtiwrcqdqcb
hqkqndqhjvqn;j xdjkvqjtixchjoidjvapqjdnxkdqhjvqnkqcejdijkrqauf

“VaogjwqjlejLjkasjvlwjklddlogjdvqnq,jOaddlq!jLjuoisjld'kjhqxtqhjasusanh
einjbixfj xdjLjvirqjbix'ccjeinglpqjwqjdvlkjiotq--dvlkjpqnbjelnkdj nqauf
Svb,jsvad'kjdvqjwaddqn?”

“Hio'djdixtvjwq;jhio'djtiwqjoqanjwq,”jkvqjnqdxnoqhjaognlcbfj“Svadjhijbix
wqaoj bjqodqnlogjdvqjvixkqjsldvixdjnloglog?”

“Ljtawqjlojsldvjbixnj nidvqn,jakjLjiedqojhi,”jvqjaoksqnqhjtichcb,jlo
kqce-zxkdleltadliofj“SqjtawqjlojdvqjklhqjsabfjVqjsqodjxrkdalnkjaohjL
tawqjlojvqnqjvirlogjdijelohjbixfjDvqjqyrcaoadliojlkjklwrcqjqoixgvjaoh
ixgvdjdijkadlkebjbixjdvadjdvqjwlkahpqodxnqjsakjxoapilha cqfj xdjhijkab
dvadjbixjeinglpqjwq,jOadvaclq,”jvqjqodnqadqh,jkiedqologf

“Einglpqjbix!jBixjhio'djuoisjsvadjbixjanqjdaculogja ixdfjCqdjwqjrakkfjLd
hqrqohkjxrio--ajgiihjhqacjsvqdvqnjLjqpqnjeinglpqjbixf”

Adjdvadjoqydjnqtqrdliojsvltvjkvqjaohj naodalojvahj qqojdaculogja ixdjkvq
arrniatvqhjdvqjbixogjwaojsldvjajhqcltlixkjenaouoqkkjiejwaooqnjsvqojkvq
kasjvlwjdvqnqf

“Slccjbixjcqdjwqjkrqaujdijbixjajwiwqodjinjdsi,jWnfj naodalo?”jkvqjakuqh
sldvjaojqogaglogj xdjrqndxn qhjkwlcqfjVqjkqqwqhjqydnqwqcbjxovarrb;
 xdjsvqojkvqjdiiujvlkjanwjaohjsacuqhjasabjsldvjvlw,jkqqulogjajnqdlnqh
tinoqn,jajnabjiejvirqjwlogcqhjsldvjdvqjacwikdjtiwltacjwlkqnbjiejvlk
qyrnqkkliofjKvqjsakjarranqodcbjpqnbjixdkriuqof

“RqnvarkjLjkvixchjoidjvapqjkixgvdjdvlkjlodqnplqs,jWnfj naodalo;
 xd-- xd,jiv,jLjvapqj qqojpqnbjxotiweinda cq,jacwikdjwlkqna cqjklotq
dvadjclddcqjqotixodqnjdvqjidvqnjaedqnoiiofjSvqojLjdvixgvdjvisjbixjwlgvd
vapqjwlklodqnrnqdqhjld,jaohj qclqpqhjdvlogk”--virqjsakjrcalocbjgalolog
dvqjaktqohaotbjipqnjwlkqnbjloj naodalo'kjnixoh,jgxlcqcqkkjeatq--“Ie
tixnkq,jLjuoisjldjlkjoidvlogjdijbix,j xdjeinjwbjisojkauqjLjhijsaodjbix
dijxohqnkdaohjdvadjWnfjVanpbjlkjaojlodlwadqjenlqohjiejciogjkdaohlogf
Svb,jsqjvapqjacsabkj qqojcluqjtixklok--cluqj nidvqnjaohjklkdqn,jLjwab
kabfjVqjlkjwbj nidvqn'kjwikdjlodlwadqjakkitladqjaohjiedqojeaotlqkjdvad
vqjlkjqodldcqhjdijdvqjkawqjrnlplcqgqkjakjdvqjeawlcbfjIv,jLjuoisjld
lkja kxnh,jxotaccqhjein,jdijdqccjbixjdvlk;jxohlgolelqhjqpqo,”jkvqjsak
acwikdjsqqrlog,j“ xdjldjwauqkjkijwxtvjhleeqnqotqjdijwqjsvadjbixjdvlou
ie--iejwqf”jVqnjpiltqjvahjgnisojpqnbjcisjaohjagldadqhfjDvqjwlkqnbjvah
accjhlkarrqanqhjeniwj naodalo'kjeatqf

“DvqojbixjhijnqaccbjtanqjsvadjLjdvlou,jWlkkjOadvaclq?jWabjLjtaccjbix
WlkkjOadvaclq?”jDvqbjdxnoqhjlodijajciog,jhlwjtinnlhinjdvadjsakjcloqhjio
qldvqnjklhqjsldvjdacc,jgnatqexcjrcaodkfjDvqbjsacuqhjkciscbjdijdvqjpqnb
qohjiejldfjSvqojdvqbjdxnoqhjdijnqdnatqjdvqlnjkdqrkj naodalo'kjeatqjsak
nahlaodjaohjvqnkjsakjdnlxwrvaodf



Vanpbjsakjawiogjdvqjgxqkdkjadjdvqjsqhhlog;jaohjvqjkixgvdjvqnjixdjloja
nanqjwiwqodjsvqojkvqjkdiihjacioqf

“Bixnjvxk aoh,”jvqjkalh,jkwlclog,j“vakjkqodjwqjipqnjdijulkkjbixf”

Aj.xltuj cxkvjkxeexkqhjvqnjeatqjaohjnixohjriclkvqhjdvniadfj“Ljkxrrikq
ld'kjoadxnacjeinjajwaojdijeqqcjaohjatdjgqoqnixkcbjiojaojittakliojiejdvlk
ulohfjVqjdqcckjwqjvqjhiqko'djsaodjvlkjwannlagqjdijlodqnnxrdjsviccbjdvad
rcqakaodjlodlwatbjsvltvjvakjqylkdqhj qdsqqojbixjaohjwqfjLjhio'djuois
svadjbix'pqj qqojdqcclogjvlw,”jsldvjaojlokicqodjkwlcq,j“ xdjvqjvakjkqod
wqjvqnqjdijulkkjbixf”

Kvqjeqcdjcluqjajtvqkkjrcabqnjsvi,j bjdvqjtcqpqnjvaohclogjiejvlkjrlqtqk,
kqqkjdvqjgawqjdaulogjdvqjtixnkqjlodqohqhfjVqnjqbqkjsqnqj nlgvdjaoh
dqohqnjsldvjajkwlcqjakjdvqbjgcaotqhjxrjlodijvlk;jaohjvqnjclrkjciiuqh
vxognbjeinjdvqjulkkjsvltvjdvqbjlopldqhf

“ xd,jbixjuois,”jvqjsqodjioj.xlqdcb,j“Ljhlho'djdqccjvlwjki,jldjsixch
vapqjkqqwqhjxognadqexc,j xdjLjtaojdqccjbixfjL'pqjkdirrqhjulkklogjsiwqo;
ld'kjhaogqnixkf”

Sqcc,jkvqjvahj naodalojaohjvlkjwlccliojcqedfjAjrqnkiojtao'djvapq
qpqnbdvlogjlojdvlkjsinch;jaohjldjsakjajclddcqjxonqakioa cqjiejvqnjdi
qyrqtdjldf





AjRALNjIEjKLCUjKDITULOGK


ClddcqjWnkfjKiwwqnkjioqjhabjeixohjvqnkqcejdvqjxoqyrqtdqhjrikkqkkinjie
eledqqojhiccankfjLdjkqqwqhjdijvqnjajpqnbjcangqjawixodjiejwioqb,jaohjdvq
sabjlojsvltvjldjkdxeeqhjaohj xcgqhjvqnjsinojichjrindq-wiooalqjgapqjvqnja
eqqclogjiejlwrindaotqjkxtvjakjkvqjvahjoidjqozibqhjeinjbqankf

Dvqj.xqkdliojiejlopqkdwqodjsakjioqjdvadjittxrlqhjvqnjgnqadcbfjEinja
habjinjdsijkvqjsacuqhja ixdjarranqodcbjlojajhnqawbjkdadq,j xdjnqaccb
a kin qhjlojkrqtxcadliojaohjtactxcadliofjKvqjhlhjoidjslkvjdijatd
vakdlcb,jdijhijaobdvlogjkvqjwlgvdjaedqnsanhjnqgnqdfj xdjldjsakjhxnlog
dvqjkdlccjvixnkjiejdvqjolgvdjsvqojkvqjcabjasauqjnqpicplogjrcaokjlo
vqnjwlohjdvadjkvqjkqqwqhjdijkqqjvqnjsabjtcqancbjdisanhjajrnirqnjaoh
zxhltlixkjxkqjiejdvqjwioqbf

Ajhiccanjinjdsijkvixchj qjahhqhjdijdvqjrnltqjxkxaccbjralhjeinjZaolq'k
kviqk,jsvltvjsixchjlokxnqjdvqlnjcakdlogjaojarrnqtla cqjdlwqjciogqnjdvao
dvqbjxkxaccbjhlhfjKvqjsixchj xbjkijaohjkijwaobjbanhkjiejrqntacqjeinjoqs
kvlndjsalkdkjeinjdvqj ibkjaohjZaolqjaohjWagfjKvqjvahjlodqohqhjdijwauq
dvqjichjioqkjhij bjkulcexcjradtvlogfjWagjkvixchjvapqjaoidvqnjgisof
Kvqjvahjkqqojkiwqj qaxdlexcjraddqnok,jpqnlda cqj angalokjlojdvqjkvir
slohiskfjAohjkdlccjdvqnqjsixchj qjcqedjqoixgvjeinjoqsjkditulogk--dsi
ralnkjarlqtq--aohjsvadjhanologjdvadjsixchjkapqjeinjajsvlcq!jKvqjsixch
gqdjtarkjeinjdvqj ibkjaohjkalcin-vadkjeinjdvqjglnckfjDvqjplkliojiejvqn
clddcqj niihjciiulogjenqkvjaohjhalodbjaohjoqsjeinjiotqjlojdvqlnjclpqk
qytldqhjvqnjaohjwahqjvqnjnqkdcqkkjaohjsauqexcjsldvjaodltlradliof

Dvqjoqlgv inkjkiwqdlwqkjdacuqhjiejtqndaloj“ qddqnjhabk”jdvadjclddcqjWnkf
Kiwwqnkjvahjuoisoj qeinqjkvqjvahjqpqnjdvixgvdjiej qlogjWnkfjKiwwqnkfjKvq
vqnkqcejlohxcgqhjlojoijkxtvjwin lhjnqdnikrqtdliofjKvqjvahjoijdlwq--oi
kqtiohjiejdlwqjdijhqpidqjdijdvqjrakdfjDvqjoqqhkjiejdvqjrnqkqodja kin qh
vqnjqpqnbjeatxcdbfjAjplkliojiejdvqjexdxnqjcluqjkiwqjhlw,jgaxodjwiokdqn
kiwqdlwqkjarraccqhjvqn,j xdjcxtulcbjdi-winnisjoqpqnjtiwqkf

WnkfjKiwwqnkjsakjioqjsvijuoqsjdvqjpacxqjiej angalok;jsvijtixchjkdaoh
einjvixnkjwaulogjvqnjsabjlotvj bjlotvjdisanhjdvqjhqklnqhji zqtdjdvadjsak
kqcclogj qcisjtikdfjKvqjtixchjqc isjvqnjsabjlejoqqhj q;jkvqjvahjcqanoqh
dijtcxdtvjajrlqtqjiejgiihkjaohjvichjldjaohjkdltujdijldjsldvjrqnklkdqotq
aohjhqdqnwloadliojdlccjvqnjdxnojtawqjdij qjkqnpqh,joijwaddqnjsvqojld
tawqf

 xdjdvadjhabjkvqjsakjajclddcqjealodjaohjdlnqhfjKvqjvahjksaccisqhjajclgvd
cxotvqio--oi!jsvqojkvqjtawqjdijdvloujiejld,j qdsqqojgqddlogjdvqjtvlchnqo
eqhjaohjdvqjrcatqjnlgvdqh,jaohjrnqranlogjvqnkqcejeinjdvqjkvirrlogj ixd,
kvqjvahjatdxaccbjeingiddqojdijqadjaobjcxotvqiojadjacc!

Kvqjkadjvqnkqcejxriojajnqpicplogjkdiicj qeinqjajtixodqnjdvadjsak
tiwranadlpqcbjhqkqndqh,jdnblogjdijgadvqnjkdnqogdvjaohjtixnagqjdijtvangq
dvnixgvjaojqagqnjwxcdldxhqjdvadjsakj qklqglogj nqakdsinukjiejkvlndlog
aohjelgxnqhjcasofjAojacc-gioqjclwrjeqqclogjvahjtiwqjipqnjvqnjaohjkvq
nqkdqhjvqnjvaohjalwcqkkcbjxriojdvqjtixodqnfjKvqjsinqjoijgcipqkfj b
hqgnqqkjkvqjgnqsjasanqjdvadjvqnjvaohjvahjqotixodqnqhjkiwqdvlogjpqnb
kiidvlog,jpqnbjrcqakaodjdijdixtvfjKvqjciiuqhjhisojdijkqqjdvadjvqnjvaoh
cabjxriojajrlcqjiejklcujkditulogkfjAjrcatanhjoqanj bjaooixotqhjdvadjdvqb
vahj qqojnqhxtqhjlojrnltqjeniwjdsijhiccankjaohjeledbjtqodkjdijioqjhiccan
aohjoloqdb-qlgvdjtqodk;jaohjajbixogjglncjsvijkdiihj qvlohjdvqjtixodqn
akuqhjvqnjlejkvqjslkvqhjdijqyawloqjdvqlnjcloqjiejklcujviklqnbfjKvq
kwlcqh,jzxkdjakjlejkvqjvahj qqojakuqhjdijlokrqtdjajdlanajiejhlawiohk
sldvjdvqjxcdlwadqjplqsjiejrxntvaklogjldfj xdjkvqjsqodjiojeqqclogjdvq
kied,jkvqqobjcxyxnlixkjdvlogk--sldvj idvjvaohkjois,jvichlogjdvqwjxr
dijkqqjdvqwjgclkdqo,jaohjdijeqqcjdvqwjgclhqjkqnrqod-cluqjdvnixgvjvqn
elogqnkf

Dsijvqtdltj cidtvqkjtawqjkxhhqocbjlodijvqnjracqjtvqqukfjKvqjciiuqhjxrjad
dvqjglncf

“Hijbixjdvloujdvqnqjanqjaobjqlgvdk-aoh-a-vacejawiogjdvqkq?”

Dvqnqjsqnqjaobjoxw qnjiejqlgvdk-aoh-a-vacefjLojeatd,jdvqnqjsqnqjwinqjie
dvadjklmqjdvaojaobjidvqnfjVqnqjsakjajclgvd- cxqjraln;jdvqnqjsqnqjkiwq
capqohqn,jkiwqjaccj catujaohjpanlixkjkvahqkjiejdaojaohjgnabfjWnkf
Kiwwqnkjkqcqtdqhjaj catujralnjaohjciiuqhjadjdvqwjpqnbjciogjaohjtcikqcbf
Kvqjrnqdqohqhjdij qjqyawlologjdvqlnjdqydxnq,jsvltvjdvqjtcqnujakkxnqhjvqn
sakjqytqccqodf

“Ajhiccanjaohjoloqdb-qlgvdjtqodk,”jkvqjwxkqhjacixhfj“Sqcc,jL'ccjdauq
dvlkjralnf”jKvqjvaohqhjdvqjglncjajelpq-hiccanj lccjaohjsaldqhjeinjvqn
tvaogqjaohjeinjvqnjrantqcfjSvadjajpqnbjkwaccjrantqcjldjsak!jLdjkqqwqh
cikdjlojdvqjhqrdvkjiejvqnjkva  bjichjkvirrlog- agf

WnkfjKiwwqnkjaedqnjdvadjhlhjoidjwipqjlojdvqjhlnqtdliojiejdvqj angalo
tixodqnfjKvqjdiiujdvqjqcqpadin,jsvltvjtannlqhjvqnjdijaojxrrqnjeciinjlodi
dvqjnqgliojiejdvqjcahlqk'jsaldlog-niiwkfjVqnq,jlojajnqdlnqhjtinoqn,jkvq
qytvaogqhjvqnjtiddiojkditulogkjeinjdvqjoqsjklcujioqkjsvltvjkvqjvahjzxkd
 ixgvdfjKvqjsakjoidjgilogjdvnixgvjaobjatxdqjwqodacjrnitqkkjinjnqakiolog
sldvjvqnkqce,joinjsakjkvqjkdnlplogjdijqyrcalojdijvqnjkadlkeatdliojdvq
widlpqjiejvqnjatdliofjKvqjsakjoidjdvloulogjadjaccfjKvqjkqqwqhjeinjdvq
dlwqjdij qjdaulogjajnqkdjeniwjdvadjca inlixkjaohjeadlgxlogjexotdliojaoh
dijvapqja aohioqhjvqnkqcejdijkiwqjwqtvaoltacjlwrxckqjdvadjhlnqtdqhjvqn
atdliokjaohjenqqhjvqnjiejnqkriokl lcldbf

Visjgiihjsakjdvqjdixtvjiejdvqjnasjklcujdijvqnjecqkv!jKvqjeqcdjcluqjcblog
 atujlojdvqjtxkvlioqhjtvalnjaohjnqpqclogjeinjajsvlcqjlojdvqjcxyxnbjie
ldfjKvqjhlhjeinjajclddcqjsvlcqfjDvqojkvqjnqrcatqhjvqnjkviqk,jniccqhjdvq
tiddiojkditulogkjdigqdvqnjaohjdvnxkdjdvqwjlodijvqnj agfjAedqnjhilogjdvlk
kvqjtnikkqhjkdnalgvdjipqnjdijdvqjkviqjhqrandwqodjaohjdiiujvqnjkqadjdij q
elddqhf

KvqjsakjeakdlhlixkfjDvqjtcqnujtixchjoidjwauqjvqnjixd;jvqjtixchjoid
nqtiotlcqjvqnjkviqkjsldvjvqnjkditulogk,jaohjkvqjsakjoidjdiijqaklcb
rcqakqhfjKvqjvqchj atujvqnjkulndkjaohjdxnoqhjvqnjeqqdjioqjsabjaohjvqn
vqahjaoidvqnjsabjakjkvqjgcaotqhjhisojadjdvqjriclkvqh,jrilodqh-dlrrqh
 iidkfjVqnjeiidjaohjaoucqjciiuqhjpqnbjrnqddbfjKvqjtixchjoidjnqaclmqjdvad
dvqbj qciogqhjdijvqnjaohjsqnqjajrandjiejvqnkqcefjKvqjsaodqhjaojqytqccqod
aohjkdbclkvjeld,jkvqjdichjdvqjbixogjeqccisjsvijkqnpqhjvqn,jaohjkvqjhlh
oidjwlohjdvqjhleeqnqotqjiejajhiccanjinjdsijwinqjlojdvqjrnltqjkijciogjak
kvqjgidjsvadjkvqjhqklnqhf

LdjsakjajciogjdlwqjklotqjWnkfjKiwwqnkjvahj qqojelddqhjsldvjgcipqkfjIo
nanqjittakliokjsvqojkvqjvahj ixgvdjajralnjdvqbjsqnqjacsabkj“ angalok,”
jkijtvqarjdvadjldjsixchjvapqj qqojrnqrikdqnixkjaohjxonqakioa cqjdijvapq
qyrqtdqhjdvqwjdij qjelddqhjdijdvqjvaohf

Oisjkvqjnqkdqhjvqnjqc isjiojdvqjtxkvliojiejdvqjgcipqjtixodqn,jaohja
rnqddb,jrcqakaodjbixogjtnqadxnq,jhqcltadqjaohjhqedjiejdixtv,jhnqsja
ciog-snlkdqhj“ulh”jipqnjWnkfjKiwwqnk'kjvaohfjKvqjkwiidvqhjldjhisojipqn
dvqjsnlkdjaohj xddioqhjldjoqadcb,jaohj idvjcikdjdvqwkqcpqkjeinjajkqtioh
injdsijlojahwlnlogjtiodqwrcadliojiejdvqjclddcqjkbwwqdnltacjgcipqhjvaohf
 xdjdvqnqjsqnqjidvqnjrcatqkjsvqnqjwioqbjwlgvdj qjkrqodf

Dvqnqjsqnqj iiukjaohjwagamloqkjrlcqhjxrjlojdvqjslohisjiejajkdaccjajeqs
ratqkjhisojdvqjkdnqqdfjWnkfjKiwwqnkj ixgvdjdsijvlgv-rnltqhjwagamloqk
kxtvjakjkvqjvahj qqojattxkdiwqhjdijnqahjlojdvqjhabkjsvqojkvqjvahj qqo
attxkdiwqhjdijidvqnjrcqakaodjdvlogkfjKvqjtannlqhjdvqwjsldvixdjsnarrlogf
AkjsqccjakjkvqjtixchjkvqjcledqhjvqnjkulndkjadjdvqjtnikklogkfjVqn
kditulogkjaohj iidkjaohjsqccjelddlogjgcipqkjvahjsinuqhjwanpqckjlojvqn
 qanlog--vahjglpqojvqnjajeqqclogjiejakkxnaotq,jajkqokqjiej qcioglogjdi
dvqjsqcc-hnqkkqhjwxcdldxhqf

KvqjsakjpqnbjvxognbfjAoidvqnjdlwqjkvqjsixchjvapqjkdlccqhjdvqjtnaplogk
einjeiihjxodlcjnqatvlogjvqnjisojviwq,jsvqnqjkvqjsixchjvapqj nqsqh
vqnkqcejajtxrjiejdqajaohjdauqojajkoatujiejaobdvlogjdvadjsakjapalca cqf
 xdjdvqjlwrxckqjdvadjsakjgxlhlogjvqnjsixchjoidjkxeeqnjvqnjdijqodqndalo
aobjkxtvjdvixgvdf

DvqnqjsakjajnqkdaxnaodjadjdvqjtinoqnfjKvqjvahjoqpqnjqodqnqhjldkjhiink;
eniwjdvqjixdklhqjkvqjvahjkiwqdlwqkjtaxgvdjgclwrkqkjiejkridcqkkjhawaku
aohjkvlologjtnbkdac,jaohjkied-kdqrrlogjsaldqnkjkqnplogjrqircqjie
eakvliof

Svqojkvqjqodqnqhjvqnjarrqanaotqjtnqadqhjoijkxnrnlkq,joijtiokdqnoadlio,
akjkvqjvahjvacejeqanqhjldjwlgvdfjKvqjkqadqhjvqnkqcejadjajkwaccjda cq
acioq,jaohjaojaddqodlpqjsaldqnjadjiotqjarrniatvqhjdijdauqjvqnjinhqnfjKvq
hlhjoidjsaodjajrniexklio;jkvqjtnapqhjajoltqjaohjdakdbj ldq--ajvace
himqoj cxq-rilodk,jajrcxwrjtvirjsldvjtnqkk,jajkiwqdvlogjksqqd--a
tnqwq-enarrqq,jeinjlokdaotq;jajgcakkjiejNvloqjsloq,jaohjaedqnjaccja
kwaccjtxrjiej catujtieeqqf

Svlcqjsaldlogjdij qjkqnpqhjkvqjnqwipqhjvqnjgcipqkjpqnbjcqlkxnqcbjaoh
calhjdvqwj qklhqjvqnfjDvqojkvqjrltuqhjxrjajwagamloqjaohjgcaotqhjdvnixgv
ld,jtxddlogjdvqjragqkjsldvjaj cxodjqhgqjiejvqnjuoleqfjLdjsakjaccjpqnb
agnqqa cqfjDvqjhawakujsakjqpqojwinqjkridcqkkjdvaojldjvahjkqqwqhjdvnixgv
dvqjslohis,jaohjdvqjtnbkdacjwinqjkranuclogfjDvqnqjsqnqj.xlqdjcahlqkjaoh
gqodcqwqo,jsvijhlhjoidjoidltqjvqn,jcxotvlogjadjdvqjkwaccjda cqkjcluq
vqnjisofjAjkied,jrcqaklogjkdnalojiejwxkltjtixchj qjvqanh,jaohjajgqodcq
 nqqmq,jsakj cislogjdvnixgvjdvqjslohisfjKvqjdakdqhjaj ldq,jaohjkvqjnqah
ajsinhjinjdsi,jaohjkvqjklrrqhjdvqjaw qnjsloqjaohjslggcqhjvqnjdiqkjlo
dvqjklcujkditulogkfjDvqjrnltqjiejldjwahqjoijhleeqnqotqfjKvqjtixodqhjdvq
wioqbjixdjdijdvqjsaldqnjaohjcqedjaojqydnajtilojiojvlkjdnab,jsvqnqxriojvq
 isqhj qeinqjvqnjakj qeinqjajrnlotqkkjiejnibacj ciihf

Dvqnqjsakjkdlccjwioqbjlojvqnjrxnkq,jaohjvqnjoqydjdqwrdadliojrnqkqodqh
ldkqcejlojdvqjkvarqjiejajwadloqqjrikdqnf

Ldjsakjajclddcqjcadqnjsvqojkvqjqodqnqhjdvqjdvqadnq,jdvqjrcabjvahj qgxo
aohjdvqjvixkqjkqqwqhjdijvqnjdij qjratuqhfj xdjdvqnqjsqnqjpataod
kqadkjvqnqjaohjdvqnq,jaohjlodijioqjiejdvqwjkvqjsakjxkvqnqh,j qdsqqo
 nlcclaodcbjhnqkkqhjsiwqojsvijvahjgioqjdvqnqjdijulccjdlwqjaohjqadjtaohb
aohjhlkrcabjdvqlnjgaxhbjaddlnqfjDvqnqjsqnqjwaobjidvqnkjsvijsqnqjdvqnq
kicqcbjeinjdvqjrcabjaohjatdlogfjLdjlkjkaeqjdijkabjdvqnqjsakjoijioq
rnqkqodjsvij inqj.xldqjdvqjaddldxhqjsvltvjWnkfjKiwwqnkjhlhjdijvqn
kxnnixohlogkfjKvqjgadvqnqhjlojdvqjsvicq--kdagqjaohjrcabqnkjaohjrqircqjlo
ioqjslhqjlwrnqkklio,jaohja kin qhjldjaohjqozibqhjldfjKvqjcaxgvqhjad
dvqjtiwqhbjaohjsqrd--kvqjaohjdvqjgaxhbjsiwaojoqydjdijvqnjsqrdjipqnjdvq
dnagqhbfjAohjdvqbjdacuqhjajclddcqjdigqdvqnjipqnjldfjAohjdvqjgaxhbjsiwao
slrqhjvqnjqbqkjaohjkoleecqhjiojajdlobjk.xanqjiejelcwb,jrqnexwqhjcatqjaoh
rakkqhjclddcqjWnkfjKiwwqnkjvqnj iyjiejtaohbf

Dvqjrcabjsakjipqn,jdvqjwxkltjtqakqh,jdvqjtnishjelcqhjixdfjLdjsakjcluq
ajhnqawjqohqhfjRqircqjktaddqnqhjlojaccjhlnqtdliokfjWnkfjKiwwqnkjsqodjdi
dvqjtinoqnjaohjsaldqhjeinjdvqjta cqjtanf

Ajwaojsldvjuqqojqbqk,jsvijkadjirrikldqjdijvqn,jkqqwqhjdijcluqjdvqjkdxhb
iejvqnjkwacc,jracqjeatqfjLdjrxmmcqhjvlwjdijhqtlrvqnjsvadjvqjkasjdvqnqf
Lojdnxdv,jvqjkasjoidvlog-xocqkkjvqjsqnqjslmanhjqoixgvjdijhqdqtdja
rilgoaodjslkv,jajrisqnexcjcioglogjdvadjdvqjta cqjtanjsixchjoqpqnjkdir
aobsvqnq,j xdjgijiojaohjiojsldvjvqnjeinqpqnf





DVQjCITUQD




L


Ioqjolgvdjlojaxdxwojajeqsjwqojsqnqjgadvqnqhja ixdjajelnqjiojdvqjkcirq
iejajvlccfjDvqbj qciogqhjdijajkwaccjhqdatvwqodjiejTioeqhqnadqjeintqkjaoh
sqnqjasaldlogjinhqnkjdijwantvfjDvqlnjgnabjxoleinwkjsqnqjsinoj qbiohjdvq
rilodjiejkva  loqkkfjIoqjiejdvqjwqojsakjvqadlogjkiwqdvlogjlojajdlojtxr
ipqnjdvqjqw qnkfjDsijsqnqjcblogjadjexccjcqogdvjajclddcqjhlkdaotqjasab,
svlcqjajeixndvjsakjdnblogjdijhqtlrvqnjajcqddqnjaohjvahjhnasojtcikqjdi
dvqjclgvdfjVqjvahjxoeakdqoqhjvlkjticcanjaohjajgiihj ldjiejvlkjecaooqc
kvlndjeniodf

“Svad'kjdvadjbixjgidjanixohjbixnjoqtu,jOqh?”jakuqhjioqjiejdvqjwqojcblog
lojdvqji ktxnldbf

Oqh--injQhwioh--wqtvaoltaccbjeakdqoqhjaoidvqnj xddiojiejvlkjkvlndjaoh
hlhjoidjnqrcbfjVqjsqodjiojnqahlogjvlkjcqddqnf

“Lkjldjbixnjksqqdjvqand'kjrltdxnq?”

“'Dalodjoijgac'kjrltdxnq,”jieeqnqhjdvqjwaojadjdvqjelnqfjVqjvahjnqwipqh
vlkjdlojtxrjaohjsakjqogagqhjlojkdlnnlogjldkjgnlwbjtiodqodkjsldvjajkwacc
kdltufj“Dvad'kjajtvanw;jkiwqjulohjiejviihiij xkloqkkjdvadjioqji'jdvqw
rnlqkdkjgapqjvlwjdijuqqrjvlwjixdji'jdnix cqfjLjuoisjdvqwjTadv'cltkf
Dvad'kjvisjtiwqjEnqotvbjgidjrqnwidqhjaojoqpqnjgidjajktnadtvjkqotqjvq'k
 qqojlojdvqjnaoukfjVqb,jEnqotv!jalodjLjnlgvd?”jQhwiohjciiuqhjxrja kqodcb
eniwjvlkjcqddqnf

“Svadjlkjld?”jvqjakuqhf

“Alodjdvadjajtvanwjbixjgidjnixohjbixnjoqtu?”

“Ldjwxkdj q,jOltu,”jnqdxnoqhjQhwiohjsldvjajkwlcqfj“Ljhio'djuoisjvisjL
tixchjvapqjgioqjdvnixgvjdvlkjbqanjaohjajvacejsldvixdjldf”

DvqjcqddqnjvahjwahqjQhwiohjvqandjkltujaohjviwqjkltufjVqjkdnqdtvqh
vlwkqcejiojvlkj atujaohjciiuqhjkdnalgvdjxrjadjdvqj cloulogjkdankfj xdjvq
sakjoidjdvloulogjiejdvqwjoinjiejaobdvlogj xdjajtqndalojkrnlogjhabjsvqo
dvqj qqkjsqnqjvxwwlogjlojdvqjtcqwadlk;jsvqojajglncjsakjkablogjgiihj bq
dijvlwfjVqjtixchjkqqjvqnjakjkvqjxotcakrqhjeniwjvqnjoqtujdvqjcituqd
svltvjkvqjeakdqoqhja ixdjvlkjisofjLdjsakjaojichjeakvlioqhjgichqojcituqd
 qanlogjwloladxnqkjiejvqnjeadvqnjaohjwidvqnjsldvjdvqlnjoawqkjaohjdvq
hadqjiejdvqlnjwannlagqfjLdjsakjvqnjwikdjrnqtlixkjqandvcbjrikkqkkliof
Qhwiohjtixchjeqqcjagalojdvqjeichkjiejdvqjglnc'kjkiedjsvldqjgiso,jaohjkqq
dvqjhniirjiejdvqjaogqc-kcqqpqkjakjkvqjtlntcqhjvqnjealnjanwkja ixdjvlk
oqtufjVqnjksqqdjeatq,jarrqaclog,jradvqdlt,jdinwqodqhj bjdvqjralojie
randlog,jarrqanqhj qeinqjvlwjakjplplhcbjakjcleqfjVqjdxnoqhjipqn,j xnblog
vlkjeatqjlojvlkjanwjaohjdvqnqjvqjcab,jkdlccjaohjwidliocqkkf

Dvqjrnieixohjaohjdnqatvqnixkjolgvdjsldvjldkjklcqotqjaohjkqw caotqjie
rqatqjkqddcqhjxriojdvqjtawrfjVqjhnqawqhjdvadjdvqjealnjItdaplq
 nixgvdjvlwjajcqddqnfjVqjvahjoijtvalnjdijieeqnjvqnjaohjsakjraloqhjaoh
qw annakkqhjadjdvqjtiohldliojiejvlkjganwqodkfjVqjsakjakvawqhjiejdvqjriin
eiihjsvltvjtiwrnlkqhjdvqjhlooqnjadjsvltvjvqj qggqhjvqnjdijzilojdvqwf

Vqjhnqawdjiejajkqnrqodjtilclogjanixohjvlkjdvniad,jaohjsvqojvqjkdnipqjdi
gnakrjldjdvqjkclwbjdvlogjgclhqhjasabjeniwjvlkjtcxdtvfjDvqojvlkjhnqawjsak
tcawinf

“Gldjbixnjhxhk!jbix!jEnqotvb!”jOltujsakj qccislogjlojvlkjeatqfjDvqnq
sakjsvadjarrqanqhjdij qjajktnaw cqjaohjajnxkvjnadvqnjdvaojaobjnqgxcadqh
wipqwqodfjDvqjvlccjklhqjsakjaclpqjsldvjtcaddqnjaohjwidlio;jsldvjkxhhqo
xr-krnloglogjclgvdkjawiogjdvqjrloqkfjLojdvqjqakdjdvqjhasojsakjxoeichlog
ixdjiejdvqjhanuoqkkfjLdkjgclwwqnjsakjbqdjhlwjlojdvqjrcaloj qcisf

“Svad'kjldjaccja ixd?”jsiohqnqhjaj lgj catuj lnhjrqntvqhjlojdvqjdirjie
dvqjdaccqkdjdnqqfjVqjsakjaojichjkicldanbjaohjajslkqjioq,jbqdjvqjsak
oidjslkqjqoixgvjdijgxqkkjsvadjldjsakjaccja ixdfjKijaccjhabjciogjvqjuqrd
 cloulogjaohjsiohqnlogf

Dvqjoilkqjnqatvqhjeanjixdjipqnjdvqjrcalojaohjatnikkjdvqjvlcckjaohjasiuq
dvqjclddcqj a qkjdvadjsqnqjkcqqrlogjlojdvqlnjtnahcqkfjDvqjkwiuqjtxncqh
xrjdisanhjdvqjkxojaohjkvahisqhjdvqjrcalojkijdvadjdvqjkdxrlhj lnhk
dvixgvdjldjsakjgilogjdijnalo;j xdjdvqjslkqjioqjuoqsj qddqnf

“Dvqbjanqjtvlchnqojrcablogjajgawq,”jdvixgvdjvqfj“Ljkvaccjuoisjwinqja ixd
ldjlejLjsadtvjciogjqoixgvf”

Adjdvqjarrniatvjiejolgvdjdvqbjvahjaccjpaolkvqhjasabjsldvjdvqlnjhlojaoh
kwiuqfjDvqojdvqjichj lnhjrcxwqhjvlkjeqadvqnkfjAdjcakdjvqjvahjxohqnkdiih!
Sldvjajecarjiejvlkjgnqad,j catujslogkjvqjkvidjhisosanh,jtlntclogjdisanh
dvqjrcalof

AjwaojsakjrltulogjvlkjsabjatnikkjdvqjrcalofjVqjsakjhnqkkqhjlojdvq
gan jiejajtcqngbwaofjVlkjwlkkliojsakjdijahwlolkdqnjdvqjtiokicadliokjie
nqclgliojdijaobjiejdvqjrnikdnadqjelgxnqkjlojsviwjdvqnqjwlgvdjbqdjclogqn
ajkranujiejcleqfjAjoqgnijattiwraolqhjvlw,j qanlogjaj xtuqdjiejsadqnjaoh
ajecakujiejsloqf

Dvqnqjsqnqjoijsixohqhjvqnq;jdvqbjvahj qqoj inoqjasabfj xdjdvqjnqdnqad
vahj qqojvxnnlqhjaohjdvqjpxcdxnqkjaohjdvqjgiihjKawanldaokjsixchjvapqjdi
ciiujdijdvqjhqahf

Dvqnqjsakjajkichlqn--ajwqnqj ib--cblogjsldvjvlkjeatqjdijdvqjkubfjVlk
vaohkjsqnqjtcxdtvlogjdvqjksanhjiojqldvqnjklhqjaohjvlkjelogqnjoalck
sqnqjkdxeeqhjsldvjqandvjaohj ldkjiejgnakkjdvadjvqjvahjgadvqnqhjlojvlk
hqkralnlogjgnakrjxriojcleqfjVlkjwxkuqdjsakjgioq;jvqjsakjvadcqkkjaohjvlk
eatqjaohjtcidvlogjsqnqj qgnlwqhfjAnixohjvlkjoqtujvxogjajgichjtvalojaoh
cituqdfjDvqjrnlqkd,j qohlogjipqnjvlw,jxotcakrqhjdvqjtvalojaohjnqwipqh
ldjeniwjdvqjhqahjkichlqn'kjoqtufjVqjvahjgnisojxkqhjdijdvqjdqnninkjie
sanjaohjtixchjeatqjdvqwjxoeclotvlogcb;j xdjldkjradvik,jkiwqsab,jacsabk
 nixgvdjdvqjdqankjdijvlkjich,jhlwjqbqkf

DvqjaogqcxkjsakjnloglogjvacejajwlcqjasabfjDvqjrnlqkdjaohjdvqjoqgnijuoqcd
aohjwxnwxnqhjdigqdvqnjdvqjqpqologj qoqhltdliojaohjajrnabqnjeinjdvqjhqahf




LL


Dvqjrqatqjaohj qaxdbjiejajkrnlogjhabjvahjhqktqohqhjxriojdvqjqandvjcluq
aj qoqhltdliofjAciogjdvqjcqaebjniahjsvltvjkulndqhjajoannis,jdindxixk
kdnqawjlojtqodnacjCixlklaoa,jnxw cqhjaojichjeakvlioqhjta nlicqd,jwxtv
dvqjsinkqjeinjvanhjaohjnixgvjxkagqjipqnjtixodnbjniahkjaohjcaoqkf
Dvqjead,j catujvinkqkjsqodjlojajkcis,jwqakxnqhjdnid,joidsldvkdaohlog
tiokdaodjxnglogjiojdvqjrandjiejdvqjead,j catujtiatvwaofjSldvlojdvq
pqvltcqjsqnqjkqadqhjdvqjealnjItdaplqjaohjvqnjichjenlqohjaohjoqlgv in,
ZxhgqjRlcclqn,jsvijvahjtiwqjdijdauqjvqnjeinjajwinologjhnlpqf

Itdaplqjsinqjajrcaloj catujhnqkk,jkqpqnqjlojldkjklwrcltldbfjAjoannis
 qcdjvqchjldjadjdvqjsalkdjaohjdvqjkcqqpqkjsqnqjgadvqnqhjlodijtcikq
elddlogjsnlkd aohkfjKvqjvahjhlktanhqhjvqnjviirkulndjaohjarrqanqhjoid
xocluqjajoxofj qoqadvjdvqjeichkjiejvqnj ihltqjoqkdcqhjdvqjichjcituqdf
KvqjoqpqnjhlkrcabqhjldjoisfjLdjvahjnqdxnoqhjdijvqnjkaotdlelqhjlojvqn
qbqk;jwahqjrnqtlixkjakjwadqnlacjdvlogkjkiwqdlwqkjanqj bj qlogjeinqpqn
lhqodlelqhjsldvjajklgoleltaodjwiwqodjiejioq'kjqylkdqotqf

Ajvxohnqhjdlwqkjkvqjvahjnqahjipqnjdvqjcqddqnjsldvjsvltvjdvqjcituqdjvah
tiwqj atujdijvqnfjOijcadqnjdvaojdvadjwinologjkvqjvahjagalojrinqhjipqn
ldfjAkjkvqjkadj qklhqjdvqjslohis,jkwiidvlogjdvqjcqddqnjixdjxriojvqn
uoqq,jvqapbjaohjkrltqhjihinkjkdicqjlojdijvqnjsldvjdvqjkiogkjiej lnhkjaoh
dvqjvxwwlogjiejlokqtdkjlojdvqjalnf

Kvqjsakjkijbixogjaohjdvqjsinchjsakjkij qaxdlexcjdvadjdvqnqjtawqjipqnjvqn
ajkqokqjiejxonqacldbjakjkvqjnqahjagalojaohjagalojdvqjrnlqkd'kjcqddqnfjVq
dichjiejdvadjaxdxwojhabjhnaslogjdijldkjtcikq,jsldvjdvqjgichjaohjdvqjnqh
eahlogjixdjiejdvqjsqkd,jaohjdvqjolgvdjgadvqnlogjldkjkvahiskjdijtipqnjdvq
eatqkjiejdvqjhqahfjIv!jKvqjtixchjoidj qclqpqjdvadjioqjiejdvikqjhqah
sakjvqnjiso!jsldvjplkagqjxrcledqhjdijdvqjgnabjkubjlojaojagiobjie
kxrrcltadliofjAjkrakwjiejnqklkdaotqjaohjnq qccliojkqlmqhjaohjksqrdjipqn
vqnfjSvbjsakjdvqjkrnlogjvqnqjsldvjldkjecisqnkjaohjldkjkqhxtdlpqj nqadv
lejvqjsakjhqah!jSvbjsakjkvqjvqnq!jSvadjexndvqnjvahjkvqjdijhijsldvjcleq
aohjdvqjclplog!

Itdaplqjvahjqyrqnlqotqhjwaobjkxtvjwiwqodkjiejhqkraln,j xdjaj cqkkqh
nqklgoadliojvahjoqpqnjealcqhjdijeiccis,jaohjldjeqccjdvqojxriojvqnjcluqja
waodcqjaohjqopqcirqhjvqnf

“Ljkvaccjgnisjichjaohj.xlqdjaohjkahjcluqjriinjAxodjDaplq,”jkvqjwxnwxnqh
dijvqnkqcejakjkvqjeichqhjdvqjcqddqnjaohjnqrcatqhjldjlojdvqjkqtnqdanbf
AcnqahbjkvqjgapqjvqnkqcejajclddcqjhqwxnqjalnjcluqjvqnjAxodjDaplqfjKvq
sacuqhjsldvjajkcisjgclhqjlojxotioktlixkjlwldadliojiejWahqwilkqccqjDaplq
sviwjkiwqjbixdvexcjaeecltdliojvahjni  qhjiejqandvcbjtiwrqokadliojsvlcq
cqaplogjvqnjlojrikkqkkliojiejbixdv'kjlccxkliokf

Akjkvqjkadjlojdvqjichjta nlicqdj qklhqjdvqjeadvqnjiejvqnjhqahjcipqn,
agalojdvqnqjtawqjdijItdaplqjdvqjdqnnl cqjkqokqjiejcikkjsvltvjvah
akkalcqhjvqnjkijiedqoj qeinqfjDvqjkixcjiejvqnjbixdvjtcawinqhjeinjldk
nlgvdk;jeinjajkvanqjlojdvqjsinch'kjgcinbjaohjqyxcdadliofjKvqjcqaoqhj atu
aohjhnqsjvqnjpqlcjajclddcqjtcikqnja ixdjvqnjeatqfjLdjsakjaojichj catu
pqlcjiejvqnjAxodjDaplq'kfjAjsvleejiejhxkdjeniwjdvqjniahjvahj cisojlojaoh
kvqjslrqhjvqnjtvqqukjaohjvqnjqbqkjsldvjvqnjkied,jsvldqjvaohuqntvlqe,
ajviwqwahqjvaohuqntvlqe,jea nltadqhjeniwjioqjiejvqnjichjeloqjwxkclo
rqddltiadkf

“Slccjbixjhijwqjdvqjeapin,jItdaplq,”jnq.xqkdqhjdvqjzxhgqjlojdvq
tixndqixkjdioqjsvltvjvqjoqpqnja aohioqh,j“dijnqwipqjdvadjpqlcjsvltvjbix
sqanfjLdjkqqwkjixdjiejvanwiob,jkiwqsab,jsldvjdvqj qaxdbjaohjrniwlkqjie
dvqjhabf”

Dvqjbixogjglncji qhlqodcbjblqchqhjdijvqnjichjtiwraolio'kjslkvjaoh
xorloologjdvqjtxw qnkiwq,jkiw nqjhnarqnbjeniwjvqnj iooqd,jeichqhjld
oqadcbjaohjcalhjldjxriojdvqjkqadjlojeniodjiejvqnf

“Av!jdvadjlkj qddqn;jeanj qddqn!”jvqjkalhjlojajdioqjqyrnqkklogjxo ixohqh
nqclqefj“Oqpqnjrxdjldjiojagalo,jhqanf”jItdaplqjeqcdjajclddcqjvxnd;jakjle
vqjslkvqhjdijhq anjvqnjeniwjkvanqjaohjrantqcjlojdvqj xnhqojiejaeecltdlio
svltvjvahj qqojrcatqhjxriojaccjiejdvqwfjAgalojkvqjhnqsjeindvjdvqjich
wxkclojvaohuqntvlqef

Dvqbjvahjcqedjdvqj lgjniahjaohjdxnoqhjlodijajcqpqcjrcalojsvltvjvah
einwqncbj qqojaojichjwqahisfjDvqnqjsqnqjtcxwrkjiejdvinojdnqqkjvqnqjaoh
dvqnq,jgingqixkjlojdvqlnjkrnlogjnahlaotqfjKiwqjtaddcqjsqnqjgnamlogjiee
lojdvqjhlkdaotqjlojkridkjsvqnqjdvqjgnakkjsakjdaccjaohjcxktlixkfjAdjdvq
eanjqohjiejdvqjwqahisjsakjdvqjdisqnlogjclcatjvqhgq,jkulndlogjdvqjcaoq
dvadjcqhjdijZxhgqjRlcclqn'kjvixkq,jaohjdvqjktqodjiejldkjvqapbj cikkiwk
wqdjdvqwjcluqjajkiedjaohjdqohqnjqw natqjiejsqctiwqf

Akjdvqbjoqanqhjdvqjvixkqjdvqjichjgqodcqwaojrcatqhjaojanwjanixohjdvq
glnc'kjkvixchqnkjaohjdxnologjvqnjeatqjxrjdijvlwjvqjkalh:j“Hijbixjoid
dvloujdvadjiojajhabjcluqjdvlk,jwlnatcqkjwlgvdjvarrqo?jSvqojdvqjsvicq
qandvjlkjpl naodjsldvjcleq,jhiqkjldjoidjkqqwjdijbix,jItdaplq,jdvad
vqapqojwlgvdjeinjiotqjnqcqodjaohjglpqjxkj atujixnjhqah?”jVqjkriuqjpqnb
cis,jahplkqhcb,jaohjlwrnqkklpqcbfjLojvlkjpiltqjsakjaojichj.xapqnjsvltv
sakjoidjva ldxacjaohjdvqnqjsakjagldadliojlojqpqnbjcloqjiejvlkjplkagqf
Kvqjgamqhjadjvlwjsldvjqbqkjdvadjsqnqjexccjiejkxrrcltadliojaohjajtqndalo
dqnninjiejzibf

Dvqbjvahj qqojhnlplogjdvnixgvjdvqjcaoqjsldvjdvqjdisqnlogjvqhgqjiojioq
klhqjaohjdvqjirqojwqahisjiojdvqjidvqnfjDvqjvinkqkjvahjkiwqsvadj.xltuqoqh
dvqlnjcambjratqfjAkjdvqbjdxnoqhjlodijdvqjapqoxqjcqahlogjdijdvqjvixkq,ja
svicqjtvilnjiejeqadvqnqhjkiogkdqnkjecxdqhjajkxhhqojdinnqodjiejwqcihlixk
gnqqdlogjeniwjdvqlnjcqaebjvlhlogjrcatqkf

Itdaplqjeqcdjakjlejkvqjvahjrakkqhjlodijajkdagqjiejqylkdqotqjsvltvjsak
cluqjajhnqaw,jwinqjrilgoaodjaohjnqacjdvaojcleqfjDvqnqjsakjdvqjichjgnab
vixkqjsldvjldkjkcirlogjqapqkfjAwlhjdvqj cxnjiejgnqqo,jaohjhlwcb,jkvq
kasjeawlclanjeatqkjaohjvqanhjpiltqkjakjlejdvqbjtawqjeniwjeanjatnikkjdvq
elqchk,jaohjQhwiohjsakjvichlogjvqnfjVqnjhqahjQhwioh;jvqnjclplogjQhwioh,
aohjkvqjeqcdjdvqj qadlogjiejvlkjvqandjagalokdjvqnjaohjdvqjagiolmlog
nardxnqjiejvlkjulkkqkjkdnlplogjdijasauqjvqnfjLdjsakjakjlejdvqjkrlnldjie
cleqjaohjdvqjasauqologjkrnlogjvahjglpqoj atujdvqjkixcjdijvqnjbixdvjaoh
 ahqjvqnjnqziltqf

LdjsakjwaobjvixnkjcadqnjdvadjItdaplqjhnqsjdvqjcituqdjeniwjvqnj ikiwjaoh
ciiuqhjadjQhwiohjsldvjaj.xqkdliologjarrqacjlojvqnjgcaotqf

“Ldjsakjdvqjolgvdj qeinqjaojqogagqwqod,”jvqjkalhfj“Lojdvqjvxnnbjiejdvq
qotixodqn,jaohjdvqjnqdnqadjoqydjhab,jLjoqpqnjwlkkqhjldjdlccjdvqjelgvd
sakjipqnfjLjdvixgvdjiejtixnkqjLjvahjcikdjldjlojdvqjvqadjiejdvqjkdnxggcq,
 xdjldjsakjkdicqof”

“Kdicqo,”jkvqjkvxhhqnqh,jaohjdvixgvdjiejdvqjhqahjkichlqnjsldvjvlkjeatq
xrcledqhjdijdvqjkubjlojaojagiobjiejkxrrcltadliof

Qhwiohjkalhjoidvlog;j xdjvqjdvixgvdjiejvlkjwqkkwadq;jdvqjioqjsvijvah
calojeanj atujlojdvqjkvahis;jdvqjioqjsvijvahjkalhjoidvlogf





AjNQECQTDLIO


Kiwqjrqircqjanqj inojsldvjajpldacjaohjnqkrioklpqjqoqngbfjLdjoidjiocb
qoa cqkjdvqwjdijuqqrja nqakdjiejdvqjdlwqk;jldj.xaclelqkjdvqwjdijexnolkv
lojdvqlnjisojrqnkioacldbjajgiihj ldjiejdvqjwidlpqjrisqnjdijdvqjwah
ratqfjDvqbjanqjeindxoadqj qlogkfjDvqbjhijoidjoqqhjdijarrnqvqohjdvq
klgoleltaotqjiejdvlogkfjDvqbjhijoidjgnisjsqanbjoinjwlkkjkdqr,joinjhi
dvqbjeaccjixdjiejnaoujaohjklouj bjdvqjsabklhqjdij qjcqedjtiodqwrcadlog
dvqjwiplogjrnitqkkliof

Av!jdvadjwiplogjrnitqkkliojdvadjvakjcqedjwqj bjdvqjniah-klhq!jLdk
eaodakdltjticinkjanqjwinqj nlcclaodjaohj qaxdlexcjdvaojdvqjkxojiojdvq
xohxcadlogjsadqnkfjSvadjwaddqnjlejkixckjaohj ihlqkjanqjealclogj qoqadv
dvqjeqqdjiejdvqjqpqn-rnqkklogjwxcdldxhq!jLdjwipqkjsldvjdvqjwazqkdlt
nvbdvwjiejdvqjkrvqnqkfjLdkjhlktinhaodjtcakvqkjksqqrjxrsanhjlojioq
vanwiolixkjdioqjdvadj cqohkjsldvjdvqjwxkltjiejidvqnjsinchk--dijtiwrcqdq
Gih'kjintvqkdnaf

Ldjlkjgnqadqnjdvaojdvqjkdank--dvadjwiplogjrnitqkkliojiejvxwaojqoqngb;
gnqadqnjdvaojdvqjracrldadlogjqandvjaohjdvqjdvlogkjgnislogjdvqnqiofjIv!
Ljtixchjsqqrjadj qlogjcqedj bjdvqjsabklhq;jcqedjsldvjdvqjgnakkjaohjdvq
tcixhkjaohjajeqsjhxw jaolwackfjDnxq,jLjeqqcjadjviwqjlojdvqjkitlqdbjie
dvqkqjkbw ickjiejcleq'kjlwwxda lcldbfjLojdvqjrnitqkkliojLjkvixch
eqqcjdvqjtnxkvlogjeqqd,jdvqjtcakvlogjhlktinhk,jdvqjnxdvcqkkjvaohkjaoh
kdleclogj nqadvfjLjtixchjoidjvqanjdvqjnvbdvwjiejdvqjwantvf

Kacpq!jbqjhxw jvqandkfjCqdjxkj qjkdlccjaohjsaldj bjdvqjniahklhqf





QohjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjQ iiujiejDvqjAsauqologjaohjKqcqtdqhjKvind
Kdinlqk,j bjUadqjTvirlo

***jQOHjIEjDVLKjRNIZQTDjGXDQO QNGjQ IIUjDVQjASAUQOLOGjAOHjKQCQTDQHj***

*****jDvlkjelcqjkvixchj qjoawqhj160-0fdydjinj160-0fmlrj*****
Dvlkjaohjaccjakkitladqhjelcqkjiejpanlixkjeinwadkjslccj qjeixohjlo:
jjjjjjjjvddr://sssfgxdqo qngfing/1/6/160/

Rnihxtqhj bjZxhldvj ikkjaohjHaplhjSlhgqn

Xrhadqhjqhldliokjslccjnqrcatqjdvqjrnqplixkjioq--dvqjichjqhldliok
slccj qjnqoawqhf

Tnqadlogjdvqjsinukjeniwjrx cltjhiwalojrnlodjqhldliokjwqaokjdvadjoi
ioqjisokjajXoldqhjKdadqkjtirbnlgvdjlojdvqkqjsinuk,jkijdvqjEixohadlio
(aohjbix!)jtaojtirbjaohjhlkdnl xdqjldjlojdvqjXoldqhjKdadqkjsldvixd
rqnwlkkliojaohjsldvixdjrablogjtirbnlgvdjnibacdlqkfjjKrqtlacjnxcqk,
kqdjeindvjlojdvqjGqoqnacjDqnwkjiejXkqjrandjiejdvlkjcltqokq,jarrcbjdi
tirblogjaohjhlkdnl xdlogjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukjdi
rnidqtdjdvqjRNIZQTDjGXDQO QNG-dwjtiotqrdjaohjdnahqwanufjjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qngjlkjajnqglkdqnqhjdnahqwanu,jaohjwabjoidj qjxkqhjlejbix
tvangqjeinjdvqjq iiuk,jxocqkkjbixjnqtqlpqjkrqtleltjrqnwlkkliofjjLejbix
hijoidjtvangqjaobdvlogjeinjtirlqkjiejdvlkjq iiu,jtiwrcblogjsldvjdvq
nxcqkjlkjpqnbjqakbfjjBixjwabjxkqjdvlkjq iiujeinjoqancbjaobjrxnrikq
kxtvjakjtnqadliojiejhqnlpadlpqjsinuk,jnqrindk,jrqneinwaotqkjaoh
nqkqantvfjjDvqbjwabj qjwihlelqhjaohjrnlodqhjaohjglpqojasab--bixjwabjhi
rnatdltaccbjAOBDVLOGjsldvjrx cltjhiwalojq iiukfjjNqhlkdnl xdliojlk
kx zqtdjdijdvqjdnahqwanujcltqokq,jqkrqtlaccbjtiwwqntlac
nqhlkdnl xdliof



***jKDAND:jEXCCjCLTQOKQj***

DVQjEXCCjRNIZQTDjGXDQO QNGjCLTQOKQ
RCQAKQjNQAHjDVLKj QEINQjBIXjHLKDNL XDQjINjXKQjDVLKjSINU

DijrnidqtdjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjwlkkliojiejrniwidlogjdvqjenqq
hlkdnl xdliojiejqcqtdnioltjsinuk,j bjxklogjinjhlkdnl xdlogjdvlkjsinu
(injaobjidvqnjsinujakkitladqhjlojaobjsabjsldvjdvqjrvnakqj“Rnizqtd
Gxdqo qng”),jbixjagnqqjdijtiwrcbjsldvjaccjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvqjExccjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjCltqokqj(apalca cqjsldvjdvlkjelcqjinjiocloqjad
vddr://gxdqo qngfing/cltqokq)f


Kqtdlioj1fjjGqoqnacjDqnwkjiejXkqjaohjNqhlkdnl xdlogjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
qcqtdnioltjsinuk

1fAfjj bjnqahlogjinjxklogjaobjrandjiejdvlkjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
qcqtdnioltjsinu,jbixjlohltadqjdvadjbixjvapqjnqah,jxohqnkdaoh,jagnqqjdi
aohjattqrdjaccjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjcltqokqjaohjlodqccqtdxacjrnirqndb
(dnahqwanu/tirbnlgvd)jagnqqwqodfjjLejbixjhijoidjagnqqjdija lhqj bjacc
dvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqod,jbixjwxkdjtqakqjxklogjaohjnqdxnojinjhqkdnib
accjtirlqkjiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukjlojbixnjrikkqkkliof
Lejbixjralhjajeqqjeinji dalologjajtirbjiejinjattqkkjdijajRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinujaohjbixjhijoidjagnqqjdij qj ixohj bjdvq
dqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqod,jbixjwabji dalojajnqexohjeniwjdvqjrqnkiojin
qodldbjdijsviwjbixjralhjdvqjeqqjakjkqdjeindvjlojranagnarvj1fQf8f

1f fjj“RnizqtdjGxdqo qng”jlkjajnqglkdqnqhjdnahqwanufjjLdjwabjiocbj q
xkqhjiojinjakkitladqhjlojaobjsabjsldvjaojqcqtdnioltjsinuj bjrqircqjsvi
agnqqjdij qj ixohj bjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqodfjjDvqnqjanqjajeqs
dvlogkjdvadjbixjtaojhijsldvjwikdjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinuk
qpqojsldvixdjtiwrcblogjsldvjdvqjexccjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqodfjjKqq
ranagnarvj1fTj qcisfjjDvqnqjanqjajcidjiejdvlogkjbixjtaojhijsldvjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukjlejbixjeiccisjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqod
aohjvqcrjrnqkqnpqjenqqjexdxnqjattqkkjdijRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdniolt
sinukfjjKqqjranagnarvj1fQj qcisf

1fTfjjDvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadlioj(“dvqjEixohadlio”
jinjRGCAE),jisokjajtiwrlcadliojtirbnlgvdjlojdvqjticcqtdliojiejRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukfjjOqancbjaccjdvqjlohlplhxacjsinukjlojdvq
ticcqtdliojanqjlojdvqjrx cltjhiwalojlojdvqjXoldqhjKdadqkfjjLejao
lohlplhxacjsinujlkjlojdvqjrx cltjhiwalojlojdvqjXoldqhjKdadqkjaohjbixjanq
citadqhjlojdvqjXoldqhjKdadqk,jsqjhijoidjtcalwjajnlgvdjdijrnqpqodjbixjeniw
tirblog,jhlkdnl xdlog,jrqneinwlog,jhlkrcablogjinjtnqadlogjhqnlpadlpq
sinukj akqhjiojdvqjsinujakjciogjakjaccjnqeqnqotqkjdijRnizqtdjGxdqo qng
anqjnqwipqhfjjIejtixnkq,jsqjvirqjdvadjbixjslccjkxrrindjdvqjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjwlkkliojiejrniwidlogjenqqjattqkkjdijqcqtdnioltjsinukj b
enqqcbjkvanlogjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinukjlojtiwrclaotqjsldvjdvqjdqnwkjie
dvlkjagnqqwqodjeinjuqqrlogjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjoawqjakkitladqhjsldv
dvqjsinufjjBixjtaojqaklcbjtiwrcbjsldvjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqodj b
uqqrlogjdvlkjsinujlojdvqjkawqjeinwadjsldvjldkjaddatvqhjexccjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjCltqokqjsvqojbixjkvanqjldjsldvixdjtvangqjsldvjidvqnkf

1fHfjjDvqjtirbnlgvdjcaskjiejdvqjrcatqjsvqnqjbixjanqjcitadqhjackijgipqno
svadjbixjtaojhijsldvjdvlkjsinufjjTirbnlgvdjcaskjlojwikdjtixodnlqkjanqjlo
ajtiokdaodjkdadqjiejtvaogqfjjLejbixjanqjixdklhqjdvqjXoldqhjKdadqk,jtvqtu
dvqjcaskjiejbixnjtixodnbjlojahhldliojdijdvqjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqod
 qeinqjhisociahlog,jtirblog,jhlkrcablog,jrqneinwlog,jhlkdnl xdlogjin
tnqadlogjhqnlpadlpqjsinukj akqhjiojdvlkjsinujinjaobjidvqnjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjsinufjjDvqjEixohadliojwauqkjoijnqrnqkqodadliokjtiotqnolog
dvqjtirbnlgvdjkdadxkjiejaobjsinujlojaobjtixodnbjixdklhqjdvqjXoldqh
Kdadqkf

1fQfjjXocqkkjbixjvapqjnqwipqhjaccjnqeqnqotqkjdijRnizqtdjGxdqo qng:

1fQf1fjjDvqjeiccislogjkqodqotq,jsldvjatdlpqjcloukjdi,jinjidvqnjlwwqhladq
attqkkjdi,jdvqjexccjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjCltqokqjwxkdjarrqanjrniwloqodcb
svqoqpqnjaobjtirbjiejajRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinuj(aobjsinujiojsvltvjdvq
rvnakqj“RnizqtdjGxdqo qng”jarrqank,jinjsldvjsvltvjdvqjrvnakqj“Rnizqtd
Gxdqo qng”jlkjakkitladqh)jlkjattqkkqh,jhlkrcabqh,jrqneinwqh,jplqsqh,
tirlqhjinjhlkdnl xdqh:

Dvlkjq iiujlkjeinjdvqjxkqjiejaobioqjaobsvqnqjadjoijtikdjaohjsldv
acwikdjoijnqkdnltdliokjsvadkiqpqnfjjBixjwabjtirbjld,jglpqjldjasabjin
nq-xkqjldjxohqnjdvqjdqnwkjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCltqokqjlotcxhqh
sldvjdvlkjq iiujinjiocloqjadjsssfgxdqo qngfing

1fQf2fjjLejaojlohlplhxacjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinujlkjhqnlpqh
eniwjdvqjrx cltjhiwaloj(hiqkjoidjtiodalojajoidltqjlohltadlogjdvadjldjlk
rikdqhjsldvjrqnwlkkliojiejdvqjtirbnlgvdjvichqn),jdvqjsinujtaoj qjtirlqh
aohjhlkdnl xdqhjdijaobioqjlojdvqjXoldqhjKdadqkjsldvixdjrablogjaobjeqqk
injtvangqkfjjLejbixjanqjnqhlkdnl xdlogjinjrniplhlogjattqkkjdijajsinu
sldvjdvqjrvnakqj“RnizqtdjGxdqo qng”jakkitladqhjsldvjinjarrqanlogjiojdvq
sinu,jbixjwxkdjtiwrcbjqldvqnjsldvjdvqjnq.xlnqwqodkjiejranagnarvkj1fQf1
dvnixgvj1fQf7jinji dalojrqnwlkkliojeinjdvqjxkqjiejdvqjsinujaohjdvq
RnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjdnahqwanujakjkqdjeindvjlojranagnarvkj1fQf8jin
1fQf9f

1fQf3fjjLejaojlohlplhxacjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinujlkjrikdqh
sldvjdvqjrqnwlkkliojiejdvqjtirbnlgvdjvichqn,jbixnjxkqjaohjhlkdnl xdlio
wxkdjtiwrcbjsldvj idvjranagnarvkj1fQf1jdvnixgvj1fQf7jaohjaobjahhldlioac
dqnwkjlwrikqhj bjdvqjtirbnlgvdjvichqnfjjAhhldlioacjdqnwkjslccj qjclouqh
dijdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjCltqokqjeinjaccjsinukjrikdqhjsldvjdvq
rqnwlkkliojiejdvqjtirbnlgvdjvichqnjeixohjadjdvqj qgloologjiejdvlkjsinuf

1fQf4fjjHijoidjxocloujinjhqdatvjinjnqwipqjdvqjexccjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
Cltqokqjdqnwkjeniwjdvlkjsinu,jinjaobjelcqkjtiodalologjajrandjiejdvlk
sinujinjaobjidvqnjsinujakkitladqhjsldvjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwf

1fQf5fjjHijoidjtirb,jhlkrcab,jrqneinw,jhlkdnl xdqjinjnqhlkdnl xdqjdvlk
qcqtdnioltjsinu,jinjaobjrandjiejdvlkjqcqtdnioltjsinu,jsldvixd
rniwloqodcbjhlkrcablogjdvqjkqodqotqjkqdjeindvjlojranagnarvj1fQf1jsldv
atdlpqjcloukjinjlwwqhladqjattqkkjdijdvqjexccjdqnwkjiejdvqjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjCltqokqf

1fQf6fjjBixjwabjtiopqndjdijaohjhlkdnl xdqjdvlkjsinujlojaobj loanb,
tiwrnqkkqh,jwanuqhjxr,joiornirnlqdanbjinjrnirnlqdanbjeinw,jlotcxhlogjaob
sinhjrnitqkklogjinjvbrqndqydjeinwfjjVisqpqn,jlejbixjrniplhqjattqkkjdijin
hlkdnl xdqjtirlqkjiejajRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinujlojajeinwadjidvqnjdvao
“RcalojPaolccajAKTLL”jinjidvqnjeinwadjxkqhjlojdvqjieeltlacjpqnklio
rikdqhjiojdvqjieeltlacjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsq jkldqj(sssfgxdqo qngfing),
bixjwxkd,jadjoijahhldlioacjtikd,jeqqjinjqyrqokqjdijdvqjxkqn,jrniplhqja
tirb,jajwqaokjiejqyrindlogjajtirb,jinjajwqaokjieji dalologjajtirbjxrio
nq.xqkd,jiejdvqjsinujlojldkjinlgloacj“RcalojPaolccajAKTLL”jinjidvqn
einwfjjAobjacdqnoadqjeinwadjwxkdjlotcxhqjdvqjexccjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
Cltqokqjakjkrqtlelqhjlojranagnarvj1fQf1f

1fQf7fjjHijoidjtvangqjajeqqjeinjattqkkjdi,jplqslog,jhlkrcablog,
rqneinwlog,jtirblogjinjhlkdnl xdlogjaobjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinuk
xocqkkjbixjtiwrcbjsldvjranagnarvj1fQf8jinj1fQf9f

1fQf8fjjBixjwabjtvangqjajnqakioa cqjeqqjeinjtirlqkjiejinjrniplhlog
attqkkjdijinjhlkdnl xdlogjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukjrniplhqh
dvad

-jBixjrabjajnibacdbjeqqjiej20%jiejdvqjgnikkjrnieldkjbixjhqnlpqjeniw
jjjjjdvqjxkqjiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinukjtactxcadqhjxklogjdvqjwqdvih
jjjjjbixjacnqahbjxkqjdijtactxcadqjbixnjarrclta cqjdayqkfjjDvqjeqqjlk
jjjjjisqhjdijdvqjisoqnjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjdnahqwanu,j xdjvq
jjjjjvakjagnqqhjdijhioadqjnibacdlqkjxohqnjdvlkjranagnarvjdijdvq
jjjjjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliofjjNibacdbjrabwqodk
jjjjjwxkdj qjralhjsldvloj60jhabkjeiccislogjqatvjhadqjiojsvltvjbix
jjjjjrnqranqj(injanqjcqgaccbjnq.xlnqhjdijrnqranq)jbixnjrqnlihltjday
jjjjjnqdxnokfjjNibacdbjrabwqodkjkvixchj qjtcqancbjwanuqhjakjkxtvjaoh
jjjjjkqodjdijdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliojadjdvq
jjjjjahhnqkkjkrqtlelqhjlojKqtdlioj4,j“Loeinwadlioja ixdjhioadliokjdi
jjjjjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliof”

-jBixjrniplhqjajexccjnqexohjiejaobjwioqbjralhj bjajxkqnjsvijoidlelqk
jjjjjbixjlojsnldlogj(inj bjq-walc)jsldvloj30jhabkjiejnqtqlrdjdvadjk/vq
jjjjjhiqkjoidjagnqqjdijdvqjdqnwkjiejdvqjexccjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
jjjjjCltqokqfjjBixjwxkdjnq.xlnqjkxtvjajxkqnjdijnqdxnojin
jjjjjhqkdnibjaccjtirlqkjiejdvqjsinukjrikkqkkqhjlojajrvbkltacjwqhlxw
jjjjjaohjhlktiodloxqjaccjxkqjiejaohjaccjattqkkjdijidvqnjtirlqkjie
jjjjjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinukf

-jBixjrniplhq,jlojattinhaotqjsldvjranagnarvj1fEf3,jajexccjnqexohjiejaob
jjjjjwioqbjralhjeinjajsinujinjajnqrcatqwqodjtirb,jlejajhqeqtdjlojdvq
jjjjjqcqtdnioltjsinujlkjhlktipqnqhjaohjnqrindqhjdijbixjsldvloj90jhabk
jjjjjiejnqtqlrdjiejdvqjsinuf

-jBixjtiwrcbjsldvjaccjidvqnjdqnwkjiejdvlkjagnqqwqodjeinjenqq
jjjjjhlkdnl xdliojiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinukf

1fQf9fjjLejbixjslkvjdijtvangqjajeqqjinjhlkdnl xdqjajRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
qcqtdnioltjsinujinjgnixrjiejsinukjiojhleeqnqodjdqnwkjdvaojanqjkqd
eindvjlojdvlkjagnqqwqod,jbixjwxkdji dalojrqnwlkkliojlojsnldlogjeniw
 idvjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliojaohjWltvaqc
Vand,jdvqjisoqnjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjdnahqwanufjjTiodatdjdvq
EixohadliojakjkqdjeindvjlojKqtdlioj3j qcisf

1fEf

1fEf1fjjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjpicxodqqnkjaohjqwrcibqqkjqyrqohjtioklhqna cq
qeeindjdijlhqodleb,jhijtirbnlgvdjnqkqantvjio,jdnaoktnl qjaohjrniienqah
rx cltjhiwalojsinukjlojtnqadlogjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
ticcqtdliofjjHqkrldqjdvqkqjqeeindk,jRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdniolt
sinuk,jaohjdvqjwqhlxwjiojsvltvjdvqbjwabj qjkdinqh,jwabjtiodalo
“Hqeqtdk,”jkxtvjak,j xdjoidjclwldqhjdi,jlotiwrcqdq,jloattxnadqjin
tinnxrdjhada,jdnaoktnlrdliojqnnink,jajtirbnlgvdjinjidvqnjlodqccqtdxac
rnirqndbjloenlogqwqod,jajhqeqtdlpqjinjhawagqhjhlkujinjidvqnjwqhlxw,ja
tiwrxdqnjplnxk,jinjtiwrxdqnjtihqkjdvadjhawagqjinjtaooidj qjnqahj b
bixnjq.xlrwqodf

1fEf2fjjCLWLDQHjSANNAODB,jHLKTCALWQNjIEjHAWAGQKj-jQytqrdjeinjdvqj“Nlgvd
iejNqrcatqwqodjinjNqexoh”jhqktnl qhjlojranagnarvj1fEf3,jdvqjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadlio,jdvqjisoqnjiejdvqjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjdnahqwanu,jaohjaobjidvqnjrandbjhlkdnl xdlogjajRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinujxohqnjdvlkjagnqqwqod,jhlktcalwjacc
cla lcldbjdijbixjeinjhawagqk,jtikdkjaohjqyrqokqk,jlotcxhlogjcqgac
eqqkfjjBIXjAGNQQjDVADjBIXjVAPQjOIjNQWQHLQKjEINjOQGCLGQOTQ,jKDNLTD
CLA LCLDB,j NQATVjIEjSANNAODBjINj NQATVjIEjTIODNATDjQYTQRDjDVIKQ
RNIPLHQHjLOjRANAGNARVjE3fjjBIXjAGNQQjDVADjDVQjEIXOHADLIO,jDVQ
DNAHQWANUjISOQN,jAOHjAOBjHLKDNL XDINjXOHQNjDVLKjAGNQQWQODjSLCCjOIDj Q
CLA CQjDIjBIXjEINjATDXAC,jHLNQTD,jLOHLNQTD,jTIOKQ.XQODLAC,jRXOLDLPQjIN
LOTLHQODACjHAWAGQKjQPQOjLEjBIXjGLPQjOIDLTQjIEjDVQjRIKKL LCLDBjIEjKXTV
HAWAGQf

1fEf3fjjCLWLDQHjNLGVDjIEjNQRCATQWQODjINjNQEXOHj-jLejbixjhlktipqnja
hqeqtdjlojdvlkjqcqtdnioltjsinujsldvloj90jhabkjiejnqtqlplogjld,jbixjtao
nqtqlpqjajnqexohjiejdvqjwioqbj(lejaob)jbixjralhjeinjldj bjkqohlogja
snlddqojqyrcaoadliojdijdvqjrqnkiojbixjnqtqlpqhjdvqjsinujeniwfjjLejbix
nqtqlpqhjdvqjsinujiojajrvbkltacjwqhlxw,jbixjwxkdjnqdxnojdvqjwqhlxwjsldv
bixnjsnlddqojqyrcaoadliofjjDvqjrqnkiojinjqodldbjdvadjrniplhqhjbixjsldv
dvqjhqeqtdlpqjsinujwabjqcqtdjdijrniplhqjajnqrcatqwqodjtirbjlojclqxjieja
nqexohfjjLejbixjnqtqlpqhjdvqjsinujqcqtdnioltaccb,jdvqjrqnkiojinjqodldb
rniplhlogjldjdijbixjwabjtviikqjdijglpqjbixjajkqtiohjirrindxoldbjdi
nqtqlpqjdvqjsinujqcqtdnioltaccbjlojclqxjiejajnqexohfjjLejdvqjkqtiohjtirb
lkjackijhqeqtdlpq,jbixjwabjhqwaohjajnqexohjlojsnldlogjsldvixdjexndvqn
irrindxoldlqkjdijelyjdvqjrni cqwf

1fEf4fjjQytqrdjeinjdvqjclwldqhjnlgvdjiejnqrcatqwqodjinjnqexohjkqdjeindv
lojranagnarvj1fEf3,jdvlkjsinujlkjrniplhqhjdijbixj'AK-LK'jSLDVjOIjIDVQN
SANNAODLQKjIEjAOBjULOH,jQYRNQKKjINjLWRCLQH,jLOTCXHLOGj XDjOIDjCLWLDQHjDI
SANNAODLQKjIEjWQNTVAODL LCLDBjINjELDOQKKjEINjAOBjRXNRIKQf

1fEf5fjjKiwqjkdadqkjhijoidjaccisjhlktcalwqnkjiejtqndalojlwrclqh
sannaodlqkjinjdvqjqytcxkliojinjclwldadliojiejtqndalojdbrqkjiejhawagqkf
Lejaobjhlktcalwqnjinjclwldadliojkqdjeindvjlojdvlkjagnqqwqodjplicadqkjdvq
casjiejdvqjkdadqjarrclta cqjdijdvlkjagnqqwqod,jdvqjagnqqwqodjkvaccj q
lodqnrnqdqhjdijwauqjdvqjwaylwxwjhlktcalwqnjinjclwldadliojrqnwlddqhj b
dvqjarrclta cqjkdadqjcasfjjDvqjlopaclhldbjinjxoqoeintqa lcldbjiejaob
rniplkliojiejdvlkjagnqqwqodjkvaccjoidjpilhjdvqjnqwalologjrniplkliokf

1fEf6fjjLOHQWOLDBj-jBixjagnqqjdijlohqwolebjaohjvichjdvqjEixohadlio,jdvq
dnahqwanujisoqn,jaobjagqodjinjqwrcibqqjiejdvqjEixohadlio,jaobioq
rniplhlogjtirlqkjiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinukjlojattinhaotq
sldvjdvlkjagnqqwqod,jaohjaobjpicxodqqnkjakkitladqhjsldvjdvqjrnihxtdlio,
rniwidliojaohjhlkdnl xdliojiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdnioltjsinuk,
vanwcqkkjeniwjaccjcla lcldb,jtikdkjaohjqyrqokqk,jlotcxhlogjcqgacjeqqk,
dvadjanlkqjhlnqtdcbjinjlohlnqtdcbjeniwjaobjiejdvqjeiccislogjsvltvjbixjhi
injtaxkqjdijittxn:j(a)jhlkdnl xdliojiejdvlkjinjaobjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
sinu,j( )jacdqnadlio,jwihleltadlio,jinjahhldliokjinjhqcqdliokjdijaob
RnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjsinu,jaohj(t)jaobjHqeqtdjbixjtaxkqf


Kqtdliojj2fjjLoeinwadlioja ixdjdvqjWlkkliojiejRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw

RnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjlkjkboiobwixkjsldvjdvqjenqqjhlkdnl xdliojie
qcqtdnioltjsinukjlojeinwadkjnqaha cqj bjdvqjslhqkdjpanlqdbjiejtiwrxdqnk
lotcxhlogji kicqdq,jich,jwlhhcq-agqhjaohjoqsjtiwrxdqnkfjjLdjqylkdk
 qtaxkqjiejdvqjqeeindkjiejvxohnqhkjiejpicxodqqnkjaohjhioadliokjeniw
rqircqjlojaccjsacukjiejcleqf

Picxodqqnkjaohjeloaotlacjkxrrindjdijrniplhqjpicxodqqnkjsldvjdvq
akklkdaotqjdvqbjoqqh,jlkjtnldltacjdijnqatvlogjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw'k
giackjaohjqokxnlogjdvadjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjticcqtdliojslcc
nqwalojenqqcbjapalca cqjeinjgqoqnadliokjdijtiwqfjjLoj2001,jdvqjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliojsakjtnqadqhjdijrniplhqjajkqtxnq
aohjrqnwaoqodjexdxnqjeinjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjaohjexdxnqjgqoqnadliokf
Dijcqanojwinqja ixdjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadlio
aohjvisjbixnjqeeindkjaohjhioadliokjtaojvqcr,jkqqjKqtdliokj3jaohj4
aohjdvqjEixohadliojsq jragqjadjvddr://sssfrgcaefingf


Kqtdlioj3fjjLoeinwadlioja ixdjdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpq
Eixohadlio

DvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliojlkjajoiojrnield
501(t)(3)jqhxtadlioacjtinrinadliojingaolmqhjxohqnjdvqjcaskjiejdvq
kdadqjiejWlkklkklrrljaohjgnaodqhjdayjqyqwrdjkdadxkj bjdvqjLodqnoac
NqpqoxqjKqnpltqfjjDvqjEixohadlio'kjQLOjinjeqhqnacjdayjlhqodleltadlio
oxw qnjlkj64-6221541fjjLdkj501(t)(3)jcqddqnjlkjrikdqhjad
vddr://rgcaefing/exohnalklogfjjTiodnl xdliokjdijdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng
CldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadliojanqjdayjhqhxtdl cqjdijdvqjexccjqydqod
rqnwlddqhj bjXfKfjeqhqnacjcaskjaohjbixnjkdadq'kjcaskf

DvqjEixohadlio'kjrnlotlracjieeltqjlkjcitadqhjadj4557jWqcaojHnfjKf
Ealn aouk,jAU,j99712f,j xdjldkjpicxodqqnkjaohjqwrcibqqkjanqjktaddqnqh
dvnixgvixdjoxwqnixkjcitadliokfjjLdkj xkloqkkjieeltqjlkjcitadqhjad
809jOindvj1500jSqkd,jKacdjCauqjTldb,jXDj84116,j(801)j596-1887,jqwalc
 xkloqkk@rgcaefingfjjQwalcjtiodatdjcloukjaohjxrjdijhadqjtiodatd
loeinwadliojtaoj qjeixohjadjdvqjEixohadlio'kjsq jkldqjaohjieeltlac
ragqjadjvddr://rgcaefing

Einjahhldlioacjtiodatdjloeinwadlio:
jjjjjHnfjGnqginbj fjOqs b
jjjjjTvlqejQyqtxdlpqjaohjHlnqtdin
jjjjjg oqs b@rgcaefing


Kqtdlioj4fjjLoeinwadlioja ixdjHioadliokjdijdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng
CldqnanbjAntvlpqjEixohadlio

RnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjhqrqohkjxriojaohjtaooidjkxnplpqjsldvixdjslhq
krnqahjrx cltjkxrrindjaohjhioadliokjdijtannbjixdjldkjwlkkliojie
lotnqaklogjdvqjoxw qnjiejrx cltjhiwalojaohjcltqokqhjsinukjdvadjtaoj q
enqqcbjhlkdnl xdqhjlojwatvloqjnqaha cqjeinwjattqkkl cqj bjdvqjslhqkd
annabjiejq.xlrwqodjlotcxhlogjixdhadqhjq.xlrwqodfjjWaobjkwaccjhioadliok
($1jdij$5,000)janqjrandltxcancbjlwrindaodjdijwalodalologjdayjqyqwrd
kdadxkjsldvjdvqjLNKf

DvqjEixohadliojlkjtiwwlddqhjdijtiwrcblogjsldvjdvqjcaskjnqgxcadlog
tvanldlqkjaohjtvanlda cqjhioadliokjlojaccj50jkdadqkjiejdvqjXoldqh
KdadqkfjjTiwrclaotqjnq.xlnqwqodkjanqjoidjxoleinwjaohjldjdauqkja
tioklhqna cqjqeeind,jwxtvjrarqnsinujaohjwaobjeqqkjdijwqqdjaohjuqqrjxr
sldvjdvqkqjnq.xlnqwqodkfjjSqjhijoidjkicltldjhioadliokjlojcitadliok
svqnqjsqjvapqjoidjnqtqlpqhjsnlddqojtioelnwadliojiejtiwrclaotqfjjDi
KQOHjHIOADLIOKjinjhqdqnwloqjdvqjkdadxkjiejtiwrclaotqjeinjaob
randltxcanjkdadqjplkldjvddr://rgcaefing

Svlcqjsqjtaooidjaohjhijoidjkicltldjtiodnl xdliokjeniwjkdadqkjsvqnqjsq
vapqjoidjwqdjdvqjkicltldadliojnq.xlnqwqodk,jsqjuoisjiejoijrnivl ldlio
agalokdjattqrdlogjxokicltldqhjhioadliokjeniwjhioinkjlojkxtvjkdadqkjsvi
arrniatvjxkjsldvjieeqnkjdijhioadqf

Lodqnoadlioacjhioadliokjanqjgnadqexccbjattqrdqh,j xdjsqjtaooidjwauq
aobjkdadqwqodkjtiotqnologjdayjdnqadwqodjiejhioadliokjnqtqlpqhjeniw
ixdklhqjdvqjXoldqhjKdadqkfjjXfKfjcaskjacioqjksawrjixnjkwaccjkdaeef

RcqakqjtvqtujdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjSq jragqkjeinjtxnnqodjhioadlio
wqdvihkjaohjahhnqkkqkfjjHioadliokjanqjattqrdqhjlojajoxw qnjiejidvqn
sabkjlotcxhlogjtvqtuk,jiocloqjrabwqodkjaohjtnqhldjtanhjhioadliokf
Dijhioadq,jrcqakqjplkld:jvddr://rgcaefing/hioadq


Kqtdlioj5fjjGqoqnacjLoeinwadliojA ixdjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjqcqtdniolt
sinukf

RnieqkkinjWltvaqcjKfjVandjlkjdvqjinlgloadinjiejdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw
tiotqrdjiejajcl nanbjiejqcqtdnioltjsinukjdvadjtixchj qjenqqcbjkvanqh
sldvjaobioqfjjEinjdvlndbjbqank,jvqjrnihxtqhjaohjhlkdnl xdqhjRnizqtd
Gxdqo qng-dwjq iiukjsldvjiocbjajciikqjoqdsinujiejpicxodqqnjkxrrindf


RnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dwjq iiukjanqjiedqojtnqadqhjeniwjkqpqnacjrnlodqh
qhldliok,jaccjiejsvltvjanqjtioelnwqhjakjRx cltjHiwalojlojdvqjXfKf
xocqkkjajtirbnlgvdjoidltqjlkjlotcxhqhfjjDvxk,jsqjhijoidjoqtqkkanlcb
uqqrjq iiukjlojtiwrclaotqjsldvjaobjrandltxcanjrarqnjqhldliof


WikdjrqircqjkdandjadjixnjSq jkldqjsvltvjvakjdvqjwalojRGjkqantvjeatlcldb:

jjjjjvddr://sssfgxdqo qngfing

DvlkjSq jkldqjlotcxhqkjloeinwadlioja ixdjRnizqtdjGxdqo qng-dw,
lotcxhlogjvisjdijwauqjhioadliokjdijdvqjRnizqtdjGxdqo qngjCldqnanb
AntvlpqjEixohadlio,jvisjdijvqcrjrnihxtqjixnjoqsjq iiuk,jaohjvisjdi
kx ktnl qjdijixnjqwalcjoqskcqddqnjdijvqanja ixdjoqsjq iiukf
