
Vdmfxkre qrxslxd 'beRcxeGiaxsrqdxbemheBcxdymkjeCmynxb,el.eGdrcqdeKmsgseIm.yx

RczbexLmmjezbehmdercxeqbxemhegs.msxegs.ocxdxegresmekmbregsieozrc
gynmbresmedxbrdzkrzmsbeocgrbmxaxdtee.mqeng.ekmv.ezr,e zaxezregog.emd
dx-qbxezreqsixdercxerxdnbemhercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzkxsbxezskyqixi
ozrcerczbexLmmjemdemsyzsxegreooot qrxslxd tsxr


Rzryx:eRcxeGiaxsrqdxbemheBcxdymkjeCmynxb

Gqrcmd:eGdrcqdeKmsgseIm.yx

DxyxgbxeIgrx:eSmaxnlxde29,e2002e[XLmmje#1661]
YgbreQvigrxi:eNg.e20,e2019

Ygs qg x:eXs yzbc

Kcgdgkrxdebxrexskmizs :eQRH-8

***eBRGDReMHeRCZBeVDMFXKRe QRXSLXD eXLMMJeRCXeGIAXSRQDXBeMHeBCXDYMKJeCMYNXBe***



Vdmiqkxiel.egsegsms.nmqbeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eamyqsrxxdegsieFmbxeNxsxsixw



kmaxd



RcxeGiaxsrqdxbemheBcxdymkjeCmynxb



l.eGdrcqdeKmsgseIm.yx



Kmsrxsrb


eeeZteeeeeGeBkgsigyezseLmcxnzg
eeeZZteeeeRcxeDxi-CxgixieYxg qx
eeeZZZteeeGeKgbxemheZixsrzr.
eeeZAteeeeRcxeLmbkmnlxeAgyyx.eN.brxd.
eeeAteeeeeRcxeHzaxeMdgs xeVzvb
eeeAZteeeeRcxeNgseozrcercxeRozbrxieYzv
eeeAZZteeeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeLyqxeKgdlqskyx
eeeAZZZteeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeBvxkjyxieLgsi
eeeZPteeeeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeXs zsxxd’beRcqnl
eeePteeeeeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeSmlyxeLgkcxymd
eeePZteeeeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeLxd.yeKmdmsxr
eeePZZteeeRcxeGiaxsrqdxemhercxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxb



ZteGeBKGSIGYeZSeLMCXNZG


Zt

RmeBcxdymkjeCmynxbebcxezbegyog.be_rcx_eomngsteZecgaxebxyimnecxgdieczn
nxsrzmsecxdeqsixdegs.emrcxdesgnxteZseczbex.xbebcxexkyzvbxbegsi
vdximnzsgrxbercxeocmyxemhecxdebxpteZreogbesmrercgrecxehxyregs.exnmrzms
gjzsermeymaxehmdeZdxsxeGiyxdteGyyexnmrzmsb,egsiercgremsxevgdrzkqygdy.,
oxdxeglcmddxsrermeczbekmyi,evdxkzbxelqreginzdgly.elgygskxienzsiteCx
ogb,eZergjxezr,ercxenmbrevxdhxkredxgbmszs egsiemlbxdazs engkczsxercgr
rcxeomdyiecgbebxxs,elqregbegeymaxdecxeomqyiecgaxevygkxiecznbxyhezseg
hgybxevmbzrzmsteCxesxaxdebvmjxemhercxebmhrxdevgbbzmsb,ebgaxeozrcege zlx
gsiegebsxxdteRcx.eoxdxeginzdglyxerczs behmdercxemlbxdaxd—xpkxyyxsrehmd
idgozs ercxeaxzyehdmnenxs’benmrzaxbegsiegkrzmsbteLqrehmdercxerdgzsxi
dxgbmsxdermeginzrebqkcezsrdqbzmsbezsrmeczbemoseixyzkgrxegsiehzsxy.
gifqbrxierxnvxdgnxsreogbermezsrdmiqkxegeizbrdgkrzs ehgkrmdeoczkcenz cr
rcdmoegeimqlreqvmsegyyeczbenxsrgyedxbqyrbte dzrezsegebxsbzrzax
zsbrdqnxsr,emdegekdgkjezsemsxemheczbemosecz c-vmoxdeyxsbxb,eomqyiesmr
lxenmdxeizbrqdlzs ercgsegebrdms exnmrzmsezsegesgrqdxebqkcegbeczbteGsi
.xrercxdxeogbelqremsxeomngsermeczn,egsiercgreomngseogbercxeygrxeZdxsx
Giyxd,emheiqlzmqbegsieuqxbrzmsglyxenxnmd.t

ZecgiebxxseyzrryxemheCmynxbeygrxy.teN.engddzg xecgieidzhrxieqbegog.
hdmnexgkcemrcxdteN.emosekmnvyxrxecgvvzsxbb,egsiercxecmnx-kxsrdxi
zsrxdxbrbeoczkcedzbxeqvegdmqsiercxengseocmehzdbrehzsibecznbxyhengbrxd
mheczbemosexbrglyzbcnxsr,eoxdxebqhhzkzxsrermeglbmdlegyyen.egrrxsrzms,
oczyxeCmynxb,eocmeymgrcxiexaxd.ehmdnemhebmkzxr.eozrceczbeocmyxeLmcxnzgs
bmqy,edxngzsxiezsemqdeymi zs bezseLgjxdeBrdxxr,elqdzxiegnms eczbemyi
lmmjb,egsiegyrxdsgrzs ehdmneoxxjermeoxxjelxroxxsekmkgzsxegsiegnlzrzms,
rcxeidmobzsxbbemhercxeidq ,egsiercxehzxdkxexsxd .emheczbemosejxxs
sgrqdxteCxeogbebrzyy,egbexaxd,eixxvy.egrrdgkrxiel.ercxebrqi.emhekdznx,
gsiemkkqvzxieczbeznnxsbxehgkqyrzxbegsiexprdgmdizsgd.evmoxdbemh
mlbxdagrzmsezsehmyymozs emqrercmbxekyqxb,egsiekyxgdzs eqvercmbx
n.brxdzxbeoczkcecgielxxseglgsimsxiegbecmvxyxbbel.ercxemhhzkzgyevmyzkxt
HdmnerznxermerznxeZecxgdiebmnxeag qxegkkmqsremheczbeimzs b:emheczb
bqnnmsbermeMixbbgezsercxekgbxemhercxeRdxvmhhenqdixd,emheczbekyxgdzs eqv
mhercxebzs qygderdg xi.emhercxeGrjzsbmseldmrcxdbegreRdzskmngyxx,egsi
hzsgyy.emhercxenzbbzmseoczkcecxecgiegkkmnvyzbcxiebmeixyzkgrxy.egsi
bqkkxbbhqyy.ehmdercxedxz szs ehgnzy.emheCmyygsiteLx.msiercxbxebz sbemh
czbegkrzazr.,ecmoxaxd,eoczkceZenxdxy.ebcgdxieozrcegyyercxedxgixdbemh
rcxeigzy.evdxbb,eZejsxoeyzrryxemhen.ehmdnxdehdzxsiegsiekmnvgszmst

Msxesz cr—zreogbemsercxeroxsrzxrcemheNgdkc,e1888—Zeogbedxrqdszs ehdmneg
fmqdsx.ermegevgrzxsre(hmdeZecgiesmoedxrqdsxiermekzazyevdgkrzkx),eocxs
n.eog.eyxienxercdmq ceLgjxdeBrdxxrteGbeZevgbbxiercxeoxyy-dxnxnlxdxi
immd,eoczkcenqbregyog.belxegbbmkzgrxiezsen.enzsieozrcen.eommzs ,egsi
ozrcercxeigdjezskzixsrbemhercxeBrqi.ezseBkgdyxr,eZeogbebxzwxieozrceg
jxxseixbzdxermebxxeCmynxbeg gzs,egsiermejsmoecmoecxeogbexnvym.zs eczb
xprdgmdizsgd.evmoxdbteCzbedmmnbeoxdxeldzyyzgsry.eyzr,egsi,exaxsegbeZ
ymmjxieqv,eZebgoeczbergyy,ebvgdxehz qdxevgbberozkxezsegeigdjebzycmqxrrx
g gzsbrercxelyzsiteCxeogbevgkzs ercxedmmnebozhry.,exg xdy.,eozrceczb
cxgiebqsjeqvmseczbekcxbregsieczbecgsibekygbvxielxczsiecznteRmenx,eocm
jsxoeczbexaxd.enmmiegsiecglzr,eczbegrrzrqixegsiengssxdermyiercxzdemos
brmd.teCxeogbegreomdjeg gzsteCxecgiedzbxsemqremheczbeidq -kdxgrxi
idxgnbegsieogbecmreqvmsercxebkxsremhebmnxesxoevdmlyxnteZedgs ercxelxyy
gsieogbebcmoseqvermercxekcgnlxdeoczkcecgiehmdnxdy.elxxsezsevgdren.emost

CzbengssxdeogbesmrexhhqbzaxteZrebxyimneogb;elqrecxeogbe ygi,eZerczsj,
rmebxxenxteOzrcecgdiy.egeomdiebvmjxs,elqreozrcegejzsiy.ex.x,ecxeogaxi
nxermegsegdnkcgzd,ercdxoegkdmbbeczbekgbxemhekz gdb,egsiezsizkgrxieg
bvzdzrekgbxegsiege gbm xsxezsercxekmdsxdteRcxsecxebrmmielxhmdxercxehzdx
gsieymmjxienxemaxdezseczbebzs qygdezsrdmbvxkrzaxehgbczmst

“Oxiymkjebqzrbe.mq,”ecxedxngdjxite“Zerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgre.mqecgaxevqr
msebxaxsegsiegecgyhevmqsibebzskxeZebgoe.mqt”

“Bxaxs!”eZegsboxdxit

“Zsixxi,eZebcmqyiecgaxercmq cregeyzrryxenmdxteFqbregerdzhyxenmdx,eZ
hgsk.,eOgrbmsteGsiezsevdgkrzkxeg gzs,eZemlbxdaxte.mqeiziesmrerxyyenx
rcgre.mqezsrxsixierme mezsrmecgdsxbbt”

“Rcxs,ecmoeime.mqejsmo?”

“Zebxxezr,eZeixiqkxezrteCmoeimeZejsmoercgre.mqecgaxelxxse xrrzs 
.mqdbxyheaxd.eoxreygrxy.,egsiercgre.mqecgaxegenmbrekyqnb.egsiekgdxyxbb
bxdagsre zdy?”

“N.eixgdeCmynxb,”ebgzieZ,e“rczbezbermmenqkcte.mqeomqyiekxdrgzsy.ecgax
lxxselqdsxi,ecgie.mqeyzaxiegehxoekxsrqdzxbeg mteZrezberdqxercgreZecgieg
kmqsrd.eogyjemseRcqdbig.egsiekgnxecmnxezsegeidxgihqyenxbb,elqregbeZ
cgaxekcgs xien.ekymrcxbeZekgs’rezng zsxecmoe.mqeixiqkxezrteGbermeNgd.
Fgsx,ebcxezbezskmddz zlyx,egsien.eozhxecgbe zaxsecxdesmrzkx,elqrercxdx,
g gzs,eZehgzyermebxxecmoe.mqeomdjezremqrt”

Cxekcqkjyxiermecznbxyhegsiedqllxieczbeyms ,esxdamqbecgsiberm xrcxdt

“Zrezbebznvyzkzr.ezrbxyh,”ebgziecx;e“n.ex.xberxyyenxercgremsercxezsbzix
mhe.mqdeyxhrebcmx,efqbreocxdxercxehzdxyz crebrdzjxbezr,ercxeyxgrcxdezb
bkmdxiel.ebzpegynmbrevgdgyyxyekqrbteMlazmqby.ercx.ecgaxelxxsekgqbxiel.
bmnxmsxeocmecgbeaxd.ekgdxyxbby.ebkdgvxiedmqsiercxexi xbemhercxebmyxezs
mdixdermedxnmaxekdqbrxienqiehdmnezrteCxskx,e.mqebxx,en.eimqlyx
ixiqkrzmsercgre.mqecgielxxsemqrezseazyxeoxgrcxd,egsiercgre.mqecgieg
vgdrzkqygdy.engyz sgsrelmmr-byzrrzs ebvxkznxsemhercxeYmsimsebygax.teGb
rme.mqdevdgkrzkx,ezhege xsryxngseogyjbezsrmen.edmmnbebnxyyzs emh
zmimhmdn,eozrcegelygkjengdjemheszrdgrxemhebzyaxdeqvmseczbedz cr
hmdxhzs xd,egsiegelqy xemsercxedz crebzixemheczbermv-cgrermebcmoeocxdx
cxecgbebxkdxrxieczbebrxrcmbkmvx,eZenqbrelxeiqyy,ezsixxi,ezheZeimesmr
vdmsmqskxecznermelxegsegkrzaxenxnlxdemhercxenxizkgyevdmhxbbzmst”

Zekmqyiesmrecxyveygq czs egrercxexgbxeozrceoczkcecxexpvygzsxieczb
vdmkxbbemheixiqkrzmste“OcxseZecxgde.mqe zaxe.mqdedxgbmsb,”eZedxngdjxi,
“rcxerczs egyog.begvvxgdbermenxermelxebmedzizkqymqby.ebznvyxercgreZ
kmqyiexgbzy.eimezren.bxyh,ercmq cegrexgkcebqkkxbbzaxezsbrgskxemhe.mqd
dxgbmszs eZegnelghhyxieqsrzye.mqexpvygzse.mqdevdmkxbbteGsie.xreZ
lxyzxaxercgren.ex.xbegdxegbe mmiegbe.mqdbt”

“Uqzrxebm,”ecxegsboxdxi,eyz crzs egekz gdxrrx,egsiercdmozs ecznbxyh
imosezsrmegsegdnkcgzdte“.mqebxx,elqre.mqeimesmremlbxdaxteRcx
izbrzskrzmsezbekyxgdteHmdexpgnvyx,e.mqecgaxehdxuqxsry.ebxxsercxebrxvb
oczkceyxgieqvehdmnercxecgyyermerczbedmmnt”

“Hdxuqxsry.t”

“Cmoemhrxs?”

“Oxyy,ebmnxecqsidxibemherznxbt”

“Rcxsecmoengs.egdxercxdx?”

“Cmoengs.?eZeims’rejsmot”

“Uqzrxebm!e.mqecgaxesmremlbxdaxiteGsie.xre.mqecgaxebxxsteRcgrezbefqbr
n.evmzsrteSmo,eZejsmoercgrercxdxegdxebxaxsrxxsebrxvb,elxkgqbxeZecgax
lmrcebxxsegsiemlbxdaxiteL.ercxeog.,ebzskxe.mqegdxezsrxdxbrxiezsercxbx
yzrryxevdmlyxnb,egsiebzskxe.mqegdxe mmiexsmq cermekcdmszkyxemsxemderom
mhen.erdzhyzs expvxdzxskxb,e.mqeng.elxezsrxdxbrxiezserczbt”eCxercdxo
maxdegebcxxremherczkj,evzsj-rzsrxiesmrxvgvxdeoczkcecgielxxsey.zs emvxs
qvmsercxerglyxte“Zrekgnxel.ercxeygbrevmbr,”ebgziecxte“Dxgiezregymqit”

Rcxesmrxeogbeqsigrxi,egsieozrcmqrexzrcxdebz sgrqdxemdegiidxbbt

“Rcxdxeozyyekgyyeqvmse.mqerm-sz cr,egregeuqgdrxdermexz crem’kymkj,”ezr
bgzi,e“ge xsryxngseocmeixbzdxbermekmsbqyre.mqeqvmsegengrrxdemhercxeaxd.
ixxvxbrenmnxsrte.mqdedxkxsrebxdazkxbermemsxemhercxedm.gyecmqbxbemh
Xqdmvxecgaxebcmosercgre.mqegdxemsxeocmeng.ebghxy.elxerdqbrxieozrc
ngrrxdbeoczkcegdxemhegseznvmdrgskxeoczkcekgsecgdiy.elxexpg  xdgrxit
Rczbegkkmqsremhe.mqeoxecgaxehdmnegyyeuqgdrxdbedxkxzaxiteLxezse.mqd
kcgnlxdercxsegrercgrecmqd,egsieimesmrergjxezregnzbbezhe.mqdeazbzrmd
oxgdegengbjt”

“Rczbezbezsixxiegen.brxd.,”eZedxngdjxite“Ocgreime.mqezng zsxercgrezr
nxgsb?”

“Zecgaxesmeigrge.xrteZrezbegekgvzrgyenzbrgjxermercxmdzbxelxhmdxemsxecgb
igrgteZsbxsbzly.emsxelx zsbermerozbrehgkrbermebqzrercxmdzxb,ezsbrxgiemh
rcxmdzxbermebqzrehgkrbteLqrercxesmrxezrbxyhteOcgreime.mqeixiqkxehdmn
zr?”

Zekgdxhqyy.expgnzsxiercxeodzrzs ,egsiercxevgvxdeqvmseoczkcezreogb
odzrrxst

“Rcxengseocmeodmrxezreogbevdxbqngly.eoxyyermeim,”eZedxngdjxi,
xsixgamqdzs ermeznzrgrxen.ekmnvgszms’bevdmkxbbxbte“Bqkcevgvxdekmqyiesmr
lxelmq creqsixdecgyhegekdmosegevgkjxrteZrezbevxkqyzgdy.ebrdms egsi
brzhht”

“Vxkqyzgd—rcgrezbercxeaxd.eomdi,”ebgzieCmynxbte“ZrezbesmregseXs yzbc
vgvxdegregyyteCmyiezreqvermercxeyz crt”

Zeiziebm,egsiebgoegeygd xe“X”eozrcegebngyye“ ,”ege“V,”egsiegeygd xe“ ”
ozrcegebngyye“r”eomaxsezsrmercxerxprqdxemhercxevgvxdt

“Ocgreime.mqengjxemhercgr?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“Rcxesgnxemhercxengjxd,esmeimqlr;emdeczbenmsm dgn,edgrcxdt”

“SmregregyyteRcxe‘ ’eozrcercxebngyye‘r’ebrgsibehmde‘ xbxyybkcghr,’
oczkcezbercxe xdngsehmde‘Kmnvgs.t’eZrezbegekqbrmngd.ekmsrdgkrzmseyzjx
mqde‘Kmt’e‘V,’emhekmqdbx,ebrgsibehmde‘Vgvzxdt’eSmoehmdercxe‘X t’eYxreqb
 ygskxegremqdeKmsrzsxsrgye gwxrrxxdt”eCxermmjeimosegecxga.eldmoseamyqnx
hdmneczbebcxyaxbte“X ymo,eX ymszrw—cxdxeoxegdx,eX dzgteZrezbezseg
 xdngs-bvxgjzs ekmqsrd.—zseLmcxnzg,esmrehgdehdmneKgdyblgite‘Dxngdjglyx
gbelxzs ercxebkxsxemhercxeixgrcemheOgyyxsbrxzs,egsiehmdezrbesqnxdmqb
 ygbb-hgkrmdzxbegsievgvxd-nzyybt’eCg,ecg,en.elm.,eocgreime.mqengjxemh
rcgr?”eCzbex.xbebvgdjyxi,egsiecxebxsreqvege dxgrelyqxerdzqnvcgsrekymqi
hdmneczbekz gdxrrxt

“RcxevgvxdeogbengixezseLmcxnzg,”eZebgzit

“Vdxkzbxy.teGsiercxengseocmeodmrxercxesmrxezbege xdngsteIme.mqesmrxercx
vxkqyzgdekmsbrdqkrzmsemhercxebxsrxskx—‘Rczbegkkmqsremhe.mqeoxecgaxehdmn
gyyeuqgdrxdbedxkxzaxit’eGeHdxskcngsemdeDqbbzgsekmqyiesmrecgaxeodzrrxs
rcgrteZrezbercxe xdngseocmezbebmeqskmqdrxmqbermeczbeaxdlbteZremsy.
dxngzsb,ercxdxhmdx,ermeizbkmaxdeocgrezbeogsrxiel.erczbe xdngseocm
odzrxbeqvmseLmcxnzgsevgvxdegsievdxhxdbeoxgdzs egengbjermebcmozs eczb
hgkxteGsiecxdxecxekmnxb,ezheZegnesmrenzbrgjxs,ermedxbmyaxegyyemqd
imqlrbt”

Gbecxebvmjxercxdxeogbercxebcgdvebmqsiemhecmdbxb’ecmmhbegsie dgrzs 
ocxxybeg gzsbrercxekqdl,ehmyymoxiel.egebcgdvevqyyegrercxelxyyteCmynxb
oczbryxit

“Gevgzd,el.ercxebmqsi,”ebgziecxte“.xb,”ecxekmsrzsqxi,e ygskzs emqremh
rcxeozsimote“Geszkxeyzrryxeldmq cgnegsiegevgzdemhelxgqrzxbteGecqsidxi
gsiehzhr.e qzsxgbegvzxkxteRcxdx’benmsx.ezserczbekgbx,eOgrbms,ezhercxdx
zbesmrczs exybxt”

“ZerczsjercgreZecgielxrrxde m,eCmynxbt”

“Smregelzr,eImkrmdteBrg.eocxdxe.mqegdxteZegneymbreozrcmqren.eLmboxyyt
Gsierczbevdmnzbxbermelxezsrxdxbrzs teZreomqyielxegevzr.ermenzbbezrt”

“Lqre.mqdekyzxsr—”

“SxaxdenzsiecznteZeng.eogsre.mqdecxyv,egsiebmeng.ecxteCxdxecxekmnxbt
Bzreimosezsercgregdnkcgzd,eImkrmd,egsie zaxeqbe.mqdelxbregrrxsrzmst”

Gebymoegsiecxga.ebrxv,eoczkcecgielxxsecxgdieqvmsercxebrgzdbegsiezsercx
vgbbg x,evgqbxieznnxizgrxy.emqrbzixercxeimmdteRcxsercxdxeogbegeymqiegsi
gqrcmdzrgrzaxergvt

“Kmnxezs!”ebgzieCmynxbt

Gengsexsrxdxieocmekmqyiecgdiy.ecgaxelxxseyxbbercgsebzpehxxrebzpezskcxb
zsecxz cr,eozrcercxekcxbregsieyznlbemhegeCxdkqyxbteCzbeidxbbeogbedzkc
ozrcegedzkcsxbbeoczkceomqyi,ezseXs ygsi,elxeymmjxieqvmsegbegjzsermelgi
rgbrxteCxga.elgsibemhegbrdgjcgseoxdxebygbcxiegkdmbbercxebyxxaxbegsi
hdmsrbemheczbeimqlyx-ldxgbrxiekmgr,eoczyxercxeixxvelyqxekymgjeoczkceogb
rcdmosemaxdeczbebcmqyixdbeogbeyzsxieozrcehygnx-kmymqdxiebzyjegsi
bxkqdxiegrercxesxkjeozrcegeldmmkceoczkcekmsbzbrxiemhegebzs yxehygnzs 
lxd.yteLmmrbeoczkcexprxsixiecgyhog.eqveczbekgyaxb,egsieoczkceoxdx
rdznnxiegrercxermvbeozrcedzkceldmosehqd,ekmnvyxrxiercxeznvdxbbzmsemh
lgdlgdzkemvqyxskxeoczkceogbebq  xbrxiel.eczbeocmyxegvvxgdgskxteCx
kgddzxiegeldmgi-ldznnxiecgrezseczbecgsi,eoczyxecxeomdxegkdmbbercxeqvvxd
vgdremheczbehgkx,exprxsizs eimosevgbrercxekcxxjlmsxb,egelygkjeazwgdi
ngbj,eoczkcecxecgiegvvgdxsry.egifqbrxiercgreaxd.enmnxsr,ehmdeczbecgsi
ogbebrzyyedgzbxiermezregbecxexsrxdxiteHdmnercxeymoxdevgdremhercxehgkx
cxegvvxgdxiermelxegengsemhebrdms ekcgdgkrxd,eozrcegerczkj,ecgs zs eyzv,
gsiegeyms ,ebrdgz crekczsebq  xbrzaxemhedxbmyqrzmsevqbcxiermercxeyxs rc
mhemlbrzsgk.t

“.mqecgien.esmrx?”ecxegbjxieozrcegeixxvecgdbceamzkxegsiegebrdms y.
ngdjxie xdngsegkkxsrte“Zermyie.mqercgreZeomqyiekgyyt”eCxeymmjxiehdmn
msxermercxemrcxdemheqb,egbezheqskxdrgzseoczkcermegiidxbbt

“Vdg.ergjxegebxgr,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Rczbezben.ehdzxsiegsiekmyyxg qx,eIdt
Ogrbms,eocmezbemkkgbzmsgyy.e mmiexsmq cermecxyvenxezsen.ekgbxbteOcmn
cgaxeZercxecmsmqdermegiidxbb?”

“.mqeng.egiidxbbenxegbercxeKmqsreAmseJdgnn,egeLmcxnzgsesmlyxngsteZ
qsixdbrgsiercgrerczbe xsryxngs,e.mqdehdzxsi,ezbegengsemhecmsmqdegsi
izbkdxrzms,eocmneZeng.erdqbreozrcegengrrxdemhercxenmbrexprdxnx
znvmdrgskxteZhesmr,eZebcmqyienqkcevdxhxdermekmnnqszkgrxeozrce.mq
gymsxt”

Zedmbxerme m,elqreCmynxbekgq crenxel.ercxeodzbregsievqbcxienxelgkjezsrm
n.ekcgzdte“Zrezbelmrc,emdesmsx,”ebgziecxte“.mqeng.ebg.elxhmdxerczb
 xsryxngsegs.rczs eoczkce.mqeng.ebg.ermenxt”

RcxeKmqsrebcdq  xieczbeldmgiebcmqyixdbte“RcxseZenqbrelx zs,”ebgziecx,
“l.elzsizs e.mqelmrcermeglbmyqrxebxkdxk.ehmderome.xgdb;egrercxexsiemh
rcgrerznxercxengrrxdeozyyelxemhesmeznvmdrgskxteGrevdxbxsrezrezbesmrermm
nqkcermebg.ercgrezrezbemhebqkceoxz crezreng.ecgaxegsezshyqxskxeqvms
Xqdmvxgseczbrmd.t”

“Zevdmnzbx,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“GsieZt”

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxerczbengbj,”ekmsrzsqxiemqdebrdgs xeazbzrmdte“Rcxegq qbr
vxdbmseocmexnvym.benxeozbcxbeczbeg xsrermelxeqsjsmoserme.mq,egsieZeng.
kmshxbbegremskxercgrercxerzryxel.eoczkceZecgaxefqbrekgyyxien.bxyhezb
smrexpgkry.en.emost”

“Zeogbegogdxemhezr,”ebgzieCmynxbeid.y.t

“Rcxekzdkqnbrgskxbegdxemhe dxgreixyzkgk.,egsiexaxd.evdxkgqrzmsecgberm
lxergjxsermeuqxskceocgrenz cre dmoermelxegseznnxsbxebkgsigyegsi
bxdzmqby.ekmnvdmnzbxemsxemhercxedxz szs ehgnzyzxbemheXqdmvxteRmebvxgj
vygzsy.,ercxengrrxdeznvyzkgrxbercxe dxgreCmqbxemheMdnbrxzs,ecxdxizrgd.
jzs bemheLmcxnzgt”

“Zeogbegybmegogdxemhercgr,”enqdnqdxieCmynxb,ebxrryzs ecznbxyheimosezs
czbegdnkcgzdegsiekymbzs eczbex.xbt

Mqdeazbzrmde ygskxieozrcebmnxegvvgdxsrebqdvdzbxegrercxeygs qzi,
ymqs zs ehz qdxemhercxengseocmecgielxxsesmeimqlreixvzkrxiermecznegbercx
nmbrezskzbzaxedxgbmsxdegsienmbrexsxd xrzkeg xsrezseXqdmvxteCmynxb
bymoy.edxmvxsxieczbex.xbegsieymmjxieznvgrzxsry.egreczbe z gsrzkekyzxsrt

“Zhe.mqdeNgfxbr.eomqyiekmsixbkxsiermebrgrxe.mqdekgbx,”ecxedxngdjxi,e“Z
bcmqyielxelxrrxdeglyxermegiazbxe.mqt”

Rcxengsebvdgs ehdmneczbekcgzdegsievgkxieqvegsieimosercxedmmnezs
qskmsrdmyyglyxeg zrgrzmsteRcxs,eozrcege xbrqdxemheixbvxdgrzms,ecxermdx
rcxengbjehdmneczbehgkxegsiecqdyxiezreqvmsercxe dmqsite“.mqegdxedz cr,”
cxekdzxi;e“ZegnercxeJzs teOc.ebcmqyieZegrrxnvrermekmskxgyezr?”

“Oc.,ezsixxi?”enqdnqdxieCmynxbte“.mqdeNgfxbr.ecgiesmrebvmjxselxhmdxeZ
ogbegogdxercgreZeogbegiidxbbzs eOzycxyne mrrbdxzkceBz zbnmsieams
Mdnbrxzs,e dgsieIqjxemheKgbbxy-Hxybrxzs,egsiecxdxizrgd.eJzs emh
Lmcxnzgt”

“Lqre.mqekgseqsixdbrgsi,”ebgziemqdebrdgs xeazbzrmd,ebzrrzs eimosemskx
nmdxegsievgbbzs eczbecgsiemaxdeczbecz ceoczrxehmdxcxgi,e“.mqekgs
qsixdbrgsiercgreZegnesmregkkqbrmnxiermeimzs ebqkcelqbzsxbbezsen.emos
vxdbmste.xrercxengrrxdeogbebmeixyzkgrxercgreZekmqyiesmrekmshzixezrerm
gseg xsreozrcmqrevqrrzs en.bxyhezseczbevmoxdteZecgaxekmnxe_zskm szrm_
hdmneVdg qxehmdercxevqdvmbxemhekmsbqyrzs e.mqt”

“Rcxs,evdg.ekmsbqyr,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebcqrrzs eczbex.xbemskxenmdxt

“Rcxehgkrbegdxeldzxhy.ercxbx:eBmnxehzaxe.xgdbeg m,eiqdzs egeyxs rc.
azbzrermeOgdbgo,eZengixercxegkuqgzsrgskxemhercxeoxyy-jsmosegiaxsrqdxbb,
ZdxsxeGiyxdteRcxesgnxezbesmeimqlrehgnzyzgderme.mqt”

“Jzsiy.eymmjecxdeqvezsen.ezsixp,eImkrmd,”enqdnqdxieCmynxbeozrcmqr
mvxszs eczbex.xbteHmdengs.e.xgdbecxecgiegimvrxiegeb.brxnemheimkjxrzs 
gyyevgdg dgvcbekmskxdszs enxsegsierczs b,ebmercgrezreogbeizhhzkqyrerm
sgnxegebqlfxkremdegevxdbmsemseoczkcecxekmqyiesmregremskxehqdszbc
zshmdngrzmsteZserczbekgbxeZehmqsiecxdelzm dgvc.ebgsiozkcxiezselxroxxs
rcgremhegeCxldxoedgllzegsiercgremhegebrghh-kmnngsixdeocmecgieodzrrxseg
nmsm dgvceqvmsercxeixxv-bxgehzbcxbt

“Yxrenxebxx!”ebgzieCmynxbte“Cqn!eLmdsezseSxoeFxdbx.ezsercxe.xgde1858t
Kmsrdgyrm—cqn!eYgeBkgyg,ecqn!eVdzngeimssgeZnvxdzgyeMvxdgemheOgdbgo—.xb!
Dxrzdxiehdmnemvxdgrzkebrg x—cg!eYzazs ezseYmsims—uqzrxebm!e.mqd
Ngfxbr.,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,elxkgnxexsrgs yxieozrcerczbe.mqs evxdbms,
odmrxecxdebmnxekmnvdmnzbzs eyxrrxdb,egsiezbesmoeixbzdmqbemhe xrrzs 
rcmbxeyxrrxdbelgkjt”

“Vdxkzbxy.ebmteLqrecmo—”

“Ogbercxdxegebxkdxrengddzg x?”

“Smsxt”

“Smeyx gyevgvxdbemdekxdrzhzkgrxb?”

“Smsxt”

“RcxseZehgzyermehmyymoe.mqdeNgfxbr.teZherczbe.mqs evxdbmsebcmqyi
vdmiqkxecxdeyxrrxdbehmdelygkjngzyzs emdemrcxdevqdvmbxb,ecmoezbebcxerm
vdmaxercxzdegqrcxsrzkzr.?”

“Rcxdxezbercxeodzrzs t”

“Vmmc,evmmc!eHmd xd.t”

“N.evdzagrxesmrx-vgvxdt”

“Brmyxst”

“N.emosebxgyt”

“Znzrgrxit”

“N.evcmrm dgvct”

“Lmq crt”

“Oxeoxdxelmrcezsercxevcmrm dgvct”

“Mc,eixgd!eRcgrezbeaxd.elgi!e.mqdeNgfxbr.ecgbezsixxiekmnnzrrxiegs
zsizbkdxrzmst”

“Zeogbengi—zsbgsxt”

“.mqecgaxekmnvdmnzbxie.mqdbxyhebxdzmqby.t”

“Zeogbemsy.eKdmoseVdzskxercxsteZeogbe.mqs teZegnelqrerczdr.esmot”

“Zrenqbrelxedxkmaxdxit”

“Oxecgaxerdzxiegsiehgzyxit”

“.mqdeNgfxbr.enqbrevg.teZrenqbrelxelmq crt”

“Bcxeozyyesmrebxyyt”

“Brmyxs,ercxst”

“HzaxegrrxnvrbecgaxelxxsengixteRozkxelqd ygdbezsen.evg.edgsbgkjxiecxd
cmqbxteMskxeoxeizaxdrxiecxdeyq  g xeocxsebcxerdgaxyyxiteRozkxebcxecgb
lxxseog.ygziteRcxdxecgbelxxsesmedxbqyrt”

“Smebz semhezr?”

“Glbmyqrxy.esmsxt”

Cmynxbeygq cxite“Zrezbeuqzrxegevdxrr.eyzrryxevdmlyxn,”ebgziecxt

“Lqregeaxd.ebxdzmqbemsxermenx,”edxrqdsxiercxeJzs edxvdmgkchqyy.t

“Axd.,ezsixxiteGsieocgreimxbebcxevdmvmbxermeimeozrcercxevcmrm dgvc?”

“Rmedqzsenxt”

“Lqrecmo?”

“Zegneglmqrermelxengddzxit”

“BmeZecgaxecxgdit”

“RmeKymrzyixeYmrcngseamseBgpx-Nxszs xs,ebxkmsieigq crxdemhercxeJzs emh
Bkgsizsgazgte.mqeng.ejsmoercxebrdzkrevdzskzvyxbemhecxdehgnzy.teBcxezb
cxdbxyhercxeaxd.ebmqyemheixyzkgk.teGebcgimoemhegeimqlregbermen.ekmsiqkr
omqyieldzs ercxengrrxdermegsexsit”

“GsieZdxsxeGiyxd?”

“Rcdxgrxsbermebxsiercxnercxevcmrm dgvcteGsiebcxeozyyeimezrteZejsmoercgr
bcxeozyyeimezrte.mqeimesmrejsmoecxd,elqrebcxecgbegebmqyemhebrxxyteBcx
cgbercxehgkxemhercxenmbrelxgqrzhqyemheomnxs,egsiercxenzsiemhercxenmbr
dxbmyqrxemhenxsteDgrcxdercgseZebcmqyiengdd.egsmrcxdeomngs,ercxdxegdxesm
yxs rcbermeoczkcebcxeomqyiesmre m—smsxt”

“.mqegdxebqdxercgrebcxecgbesmrebxsrezre.xr?”

“Zegnebqdxt”

“Gsieoc.?”

“Lxkgqbxebcxecgbebgziercgrebcxeomqyiebxsiezremsercxeig.eocxsercx
lxrdmrcgyeogbevqlyzky.evdmkygznxiteRcgreozyyelxesxpreNmsig.t”

“Mc,ercxseoxecgaxercdxxeig.be.xr,”ebgzieCmynxbeozrcege.goste“Rcgrezb
axd.ehmdrqsgrx,egbeZecgaxemsxemderomengrrxdbemheznvmdrgskxermeymmjezsrm
fqbregrevdxbxsrte.mqdeNgfxbr.eozyy,emhekmqdbx,ebrg.ezseYmsimsehmdercx
vdxbxsr?”

“Kxdrgzsy.te.mqeozyyehzsienxegrercxeYgs cgneqsixdercxesgnxemhercxeKmqsr
AmseJdgnnt”

“RcxseZebcgyyeidmve.mqegeyzsxermeyxre.mqejsmoecmoeoxevdm dxbbt”

“Vdg.eimebmteZebcgyyelxegyyegspzxr.t”

“Rcxs,egbermenmsx.?”

“.mqecgaxe_kgdrxelygskcx_t”

“Glbmyqrxy.?”

“Zerxyye.mqercgreZeomqyie zaxemsxemhercxevdmazskxbemhen.ejzs imnerm
cgaxercgrevcmrm dgvct”

“Gsiehmdevdxbxsrexpvxsbxb?”

RcxeJzs ermmjegecxga.ekcgnmzbeyxgrcxdelg ehdmneqsixdeczbekymgjegsieygzi
zremsercxerglyxt

“Rcxdxegdxercdxxecqsidxievmqsibezse myiegsiebxaxsecqsidxiezsesmrxb,”ecx
bgzit

Cmynxbebkdzllyxiegedxkxzvreqvmsegebcxxremheczbesmrx-lmmjegsiecgsixiezr
rmecznt

“GsieNgixnmzbxyyx’begiidxbb?”ecxegbjxit

“ZbeLdzms.eYmi x,eBxdvxsrzsxeGaxsqx,eBrteFmcs’beOmmit”

Cmynxbermmjegesmrxemhezrte“Msxemrcxdeuqxbrzms,”ebgziecxte“Ogbercx
vcmrm dgvcegekglzsxr?”

“Zreogbt”

“Rcxs,e mmi-sz cr,e.mqdeNgfxbr.,egsieZerdqbrercgreoxebcgyyebmmsecgax
bmnxe mmiesxobehmde.mqteGsie mmi-sz cr,eOgrbms,”ecxegiixi,egbercx
ocxxybemhercxedm.gyeldmq cgnedmyyxieimosercxebrdxxrte“Zhe.mqeozyyelx
 mmiexsmq cermekgyyerm-nmddmoeghrxdsmmsegrercdxxem’kymkjeZebcmqyieyzjx
rmekcgrerczbeyzrryxengrrxdemaxdeozrce.mqt”


ZZt

Grercdxxem’kymkjevdxkzbxy.eZeogbegreLgjxdeBrdxxr,elqreCmynxbecgiesmr
.xredxrqdsxiteRcxeygsiygi.ezshmdnxienxercgrecxecgieyxhrercxecmqbx
bcmdry.eghrxdexz crem’kymkjezsercxenmdszs teZebgreimoselxbzixercxehzdx,
cmoxaxd,eozrcercxezsrxsrzmsemhegogzrzs eczn,ecmoxaxdeyms ecxenz crelxt
Zeogbegydxgi.eixxvy.ezsrxdxbrxiezseczbezsuqzd.,ehmd,ercmq cezreogb
bqddmqsixiel.esmsxemhercxe dznegsiebrdgs xehxgrqdxbeoczkceoxdx
gbbmkzgrxieozrcercxeromekdznxbeoczkceZecgaxegydxgi.edxkmdixi,ebrzyy,
rcxesgrqdxemhercxekgbxegsiercxexpgyrxiebrgrzmsemheczbekyzxsre gaxezreg
kcgdgkrxdemhezrbemosteZsixxi,egvgdrehdmnercxesgrqdxemhercx
zsaxbrz grzmseoczkcen.ehdzxsiecgiemsecgsi,ercxdxeogbebmnxrczs ezseczb
ngbrxdy.e dgbvemhegebzrqgrzms,egsieczbejxxs,ezskzbzaxedxgbmszs ,eoczkc
ngixezregevyxgbqdxermenxermebrqi.eczbeb.brxnemheomdj,egsiermehmyymoercx
uqzkj,ebqlryxenxrcmibel.eoczkcecxeizbxsrgs yxiercxenmbrezsxprdzkglyx
n.brxdzxbteBmegkkqbrmnxieogbeZermeczbezsagdzglyxebqkkxbbercgrercxeaxd.
vmbbzlzyzr.emheczbehgzyzs ecgiekxgbxiermexsrxdezsrmen.ecxgit

Zreogbekymbxeqvmsehmqdelxhmdxercxeimmdemvxsxi,egsiegeidqsjxs-ymmjzs 
 dmmn,ezyy-jxnvregsiebzix-oczbjxdxi,eozrcegsezshygnxiehgkxegsi
izbdxvqrglyxekymrcxb,eogyjxiezsrmercxedmmnteGkkqbrmnxiegbeZeogbermen.
hdzxsi’begngwzs evmoxdbezsercxeqbxemheizb qzbxb,eZecgiermeymmjercdxx
rznxbelxhmdxeZeogbekxdrgzsercgrezreogbezsixxiecxteOzrcegesmiecx
agszbcxiezsrmercxelxidmmn,eocxskxecxexnxd xiezsehzaxenzsqrxb
roxxi-bqzrxiegsiedxbvxkrglyx,egbemhemyiteVqrrzs eczbecgsibezsrmeczb
vmkjxrb,ecxebrdxrkcxiemqreczbeyx bezsehdmsremhercxehzdxegsieygq cxi
cxgdrzy.ehmdebmnxenzsqrxbt

“Oxyy,edxgyy.!”ecxekdzxi,egsiercxsecxekcmjxiegsieygq cxieg gzseqsrzyecx
ogbemlyz xiermeyzxelgkj,eyznvegsiecxyvyxbb,ezsercxekcgzdt

“Ocgrezbezr?”

“Zr’beuqzrxermmehqss.teZegnebqdxe.mqekmqyiesxaxde qxbbecmoeZexnvym.xi
n.enmdszs ,emdeocgreZexsixiel.eimzs t”

“Zekgs’rezng zsxteZebqvvmbxercgre.mqecgaxelxxseogrkczs ercxecglzrb,egsi
vxdcgvbercxecmqbx,emheNzbbeZdxsxeGiyxdt”

“Uqzrxebm;elqrercxebxuqxyeogbedgrcxdeqsqbqgyteZeozyyerxyye.mq,ecmoxaxdt
Zeyxhrercxecmqbxegeyzrryxeghrxdexz crem’kymkjerczbenmdszs ezsercx
kcgdgkrxdemhege dmmnemqremheomdjteRcxdxezbegeomsixdhqyeb.nvgrc.egsi
hdxxngbmsd.egnms ecmdbx.enxsteLxemsxemhercxn,egsie.mqeozyyejsmoegyy
rcgrercxdxezbermejsmoteZebmmsehmqsieLdzms.eYmi xteZrezbege_lzfmq_
azyyg,eozrcege gdixsegrercxelgkj,elqrelqzyremqrezsehdmsredz creqverm
rcxedmgi,eromebrmdzxbteKcqlleymkjermercxeimmdteYgd xebzrrzs -dmmnems
rcxedz crebzix,eoxyyehqdszbcxi,eozrceyms eozsimobegynmbrermercxehymmd,
gsiercmbxevdxvmbrxdmqbeXs yzbceozsimoehgbrxsxdbeoczkcegekczyiekmqyi
mvxsteLxczsiercxdxeogbesmrczs edxngdjglyx,ebgaxercgrercxevgbbg xeozsimo
kmqyielxedxgkcxiehdmnercxermvemhercxekmgkc-cmqbxteZeogyjxiedmqsiezregsi
xpgnzsxiezrekymbxy.ehdmnexaxd.evmzsremheazxo,elqreozrcmqresmrzs 
gs.rczs exybxemhezsrxdxbrt

“Zercxseymqs xieimosercxebrdxxregsiehmqsi,egbeZexpvxkrxi,ercgrercxdx
ogbegenxobezsegeygsxeoczkcedqsbeimosel.emsxeogyyemhercxe gdixsteZeyxsr
rcxembryxdbegecgsiezsedqllzs eimosercxzdecmdbxb,egsiedxkxzaxiezs
xpkcgs xeromvxskx,ege ygbbemhecgyh-gsi-cgyh,eromehzyybemhebcg ermlgkkm,
gsiegbenqkcezshmdngrzmsegbeZekmqyieixbzdxeglmqreNzbbeGiyxd,ermebg.
smrczs emhecgyhegeimwxsemrcxdevxmvyxezsercxesxz clmqdcmmiezseocmneZeogb
smrezsercxeyxgbrezsrxdxbrxi,elqreocmbxelzm dgvczxbeZeogbekmnvxyyxierm
yzbrxsermt”

“GsieocgremheZdxsxeGiyxd?”eZegbjxit

“Mc,ebcxecgberqdsxiegyyercxenxs’becxgibeimosezsercgrevgdrteBcxezbercx
igzsrzxbrerczs eqsixdegelmssxremserczbevygsxrteBmebg.ercx
Bxdvxsrzsx-nxob,ermegengsteBcxeyzaxbeuqzxry.,ebzs begrekmskxdrb,eidzaxb
mqregrehzaxexaxd.eig.,egsiedxrqdsbegrebxaxsebcgdvehmdeizssxdteBxyimn
 mxbemqregremrcxderznxb,expkxvreocxsebcxebzs bteCgbemsy.emsxengyx
azbzrmd,elqrege mmieixgyemhecznteCxezbeigdj,ecgsibmnx,egsieigbczs ,
sxaxdekgyybeyxbbercgsemskxegeig.,egsiemhrxserozkxteCxezbegeNdte mihdx.
Smdrms,emhercxeZssxdeRxnvyxteBxxercxegiagsrg xbemhegekglngsegbeg
kmshzigsrteRcx.ecgieidzaxsecznecmnxegeimwxserznxbehdmneBxdvxsrzsx-nxob,
gsiejsxoegyyeglmqrecznteOcxseZecgieyzbrxsxiermegyyercx.ecgiermerxyy,eZ
lx gsermeogyjeqvegsieimosesxgdeLdzms.eYmi xemskxenmdx,egsiermerczsj
maxden.evygsemhekgnvgz st

“Rczbe mihdx.eSmdrmseogbexazixsry.egseznvmdrgsrehgkrmdezsercxengrrxdt
Cxeogbegeygo.xdteRcgrebmqsixiemnzsmqbteOcgreogbercxedxygrzmselxroxxs
rcxn,egsieocgrercxemlfxkremheczbedxvxgrxieazbzrb?eOgbebcxeczbekyzxsr,
czbehdzxsi,emdeczbenzbrdxbb?eZhercxehmdnxd,ebcxecgievdmlgly.
rdgsbhxddxiercxevcmrm dgvcermeczbejxxvzs teZhercxeygrrxd,ezreogbeyxbb
yzjxy.teMsercxezbbqxemherczbeuqxbrzmseixvxsixieocxrcxdeZebcmqyi
kmsrzsqxen.eomdjegreLdzms.eYmi x,emderqdsen.egrrxsrzmsermercx
 xsryxngs’bekcgnlxdbezsercxeRxnvyxteZreogbegeixyzkgrxevmzsr,egsiezr
ozixsxiercxehzxyiemhen.ezsuqzd.teZehxgdercgreZelmdxe.mqeozrcercxbx
ixrgzyb,elqreZecgaxermeyxre.mqebxxen.eyzrryxeizhhzkqyrzxb,ezhe.mqegdx
rmeqsixdbrgsiercxebzrqgrzmst”

“Zegnehmyymozs e.mqekymbxy.,”eZegsboxdxit

“Zeogbebrzyyelgygskzs ercxengrrxdezsen.enzsieocxsegecgsbmnekgleidmaxeqv
rmeLdzms.eYmi x,egsiege xsryxngsebvdgs emqrteCxeogbegedxngdjgly.
cgsibmnxengs,eigdj,eguqzyzsx,egsienmqbrgkcxi—xazixsry.ercxengsemheocmn
ZecgiecxgditeCxegvvxgdxiermelxezsege dxgrecqdd.,ebcmqrxiermercxekglngs
rmeogzr,egsieldqbcxievgbrercxengzieocmemvxsxiercxeimmdeozrcercxegzdemh
gengseocmeogbercmdmq cy.egrecmnxt

“Cxeogbezsercxecmqbxeglmqrecgyhegsecmqd,egsieZekmqyiekgrkce yznvbxbemh
cznezsercxeozsimobemhercxebzrrzs -dmmn,evgkzs eqvegsieimos,ergyjzs 
xpkzrxiy.,egsieogazs eczbegdnbteMhecxdeZekmqyiebxxesmrczs teVdxbxsry.
cxexnxd xi,eymmjzs exaxsenmdxehyqddzxiercgselxhmdxteGbecxebrxvvxieqverm
rcxekgl,ecxevqyyxiege myieogrkcehdmneczbevmkjxregsieymmjxiegrezr
xgdsxbry.,e‘Idzaxeyzjxercxeixazy,’ecxebcmqrxi,e‘hzdbrerme dmbbe&
Cgsjx.’bezseDx xsreBrdxxr,egsiercxsermercxeKcqdkcemheBrteNmszkgezsercx
Xi xogdxeDmgiteCgyhege qzsxgezhe.mqeimezrezseroxsr.enzsqrxb!’

“Gog.ercx.eoxsr,egsieZeogbefqbreomsixdzs eocxrcxdeZebcmqyiesmreimeoxyy
rmehmyymoercxneocxseqvercxeygsxekgnxegesxgreyzrryxeygsigq,ercxekmgkcngs
ozrceczbekmgremsy.ecgyh-lqrrmsxi,egsieczberzxeqsixdeczbexgd,eoczyxegyy
rcxerg bemheczbecgdsxbbeoxdxebrzkjzs emqremhercxelqkjyxbteZrecgis’r
vqyyxieqvelxhmdxebcxebcmremqremhercxecgyyeimmdegsiezsrmezrteZemsy.
kgq crege yznvbxemhecxdegrercxenmnxsr,elqrebcxeogbegeymaxy.eomngs,eozrc
gehgkxercgregengsenz creizxehmdt

“‘RcxeKcqdkcemheBrteNmszkg,eFmcs,’ebcxekdzxi,e‘gsiecgyhegebmaxdxz sezh
.mqedxgkcezrezseroxsr.enzsqrxbt’

“Rczbeogbeuqzrxermme mmiermeymbx,eOgrbmsteZeogbefqbrelgygskzs eocxrcxd
Zebcmqyiedqsehmdezr,emdeocxrcxdeZebcmqyievxdkcelxczsiecxdeygsigqeocxseg
kglekgnxercdmq cercxebrdxxrteRcxeidzaxdeymmjxierozkxegrebqkcegebcgll.
hgdx,elqreZefqnvxiezselxhmdxecxekmqyiemlfxkrte‘RcxeKcqdkcemheBrt
Nmszkg,’ebgzieZ,e‘gsiecgyhegebmaxdxz sezhe.mqedxgkcezrezseroxsr.
nzsqrxbt’eZreogberoxsr.-hzaxenzsqrxbermeroxyax,egsiemhekmqdbxezreogb
kyxgdexsmq ceocgreogbezsercxeozsit

“N.ekgll.eidmaxehgbrteZeims’rerczsjeZexaxdeidmaxehgbrxd,elqrercxemrcxdb
oxdxercxdxelxhmdxeqbteRcxekglegsiercxeygsigqeozrcercxzdebrxgnzs ecmdbxb
oxdxezsehdmsremhercxeimmdeocxseZegddzaxiteZevgziercxengsegsiecqddzxi
zsrmercxekcqdkcteRcxdxeogbesmregebmqyercxdxebgaxercxeromeocmneZecgi
hmyymoxiegsiegebqdvyzkxiekyxd .ngs,eocmebxxnxiermelxexpvmbrqygrzs eozrc
rcxnteRcx.eoxdxegyyercdxxebrgsizs ezsegejsmrezsehdmsremhercxegyrgdteZ
ymqs xieqvercxebzixegzbyxeyzjxegs.emrcxdeziyxdeocmecgbeidmvvxiezsrmeg
kcqdkcteBqiixsy.,ermen.ebqdvdzbx,ercxercdxxegrercxegyrgdehgkxiedmqsierm
nx,egsie mihdx.eSmdrmsekgnxedqsszs egbecgdiegbecxekmqyiermogdibenxt

“‘Rcgsje mi,’ecxekdzxite‘.mq’yyeimteKmnx!eKmnx!’

“‘Ocgrercxs?’eZegbjxit

“‘Kmnx,engs,ekmnx,emsy.ercdxxenzsqrxb,emdezreoms’relxeyx gyt’

“Zeogbecgyh-idg  xieqvermercxegyrgd,egsielxhmdxeZejsxoeocxdxeZeogbeZ
hmqsien.bxyhenqnlyzs edxbvmsbxbeoczkceoxdxeoczbvxdxiezsen.exgd,egsi
amqkczs ehmderczs bemheoczkceZejsxoesmrczs ,egsie xsxdgyy.egbbzbrzs ezs
rcxebxkqdxer.zs eqvemheZdxsxeGiyxd,ebvzsbrxd,erme mihdx.eSmdrms,
lgkcxymdteZreogbegyyeimsxezsegsezsbrgsr,egsiercxdxeogbercxe xsryxngs
rcgsjzs enxemsercxemsxebzixegsiercxeygi.emsercxemrcxd,eoczyxercx
kyxd .ngselxgnxiemsenxezsehdmsrteZreogbercxenmbrevdxvmbrxdmqbevmbzrzms
zseoczkceZexaxdehmqsien.bxyhezsen.eyzhx,egsiezreogbercxercmq cremhezr
rcgrebrgdrxienxeygq czs efqbresmoteZrebxxnbercgrercxdxecgielxxsebmnx
zshmdngyzr.eglmqrercxzdeyzkxsbx,ercgrercxekyxd .ngseglbmyqrxy.edxhqbxi
rmengdd.ercxneozrcmqregeozrsxbbemhebmnxebmdr,egsiercgren.eyqkj.
gvvxgdgskxebgaxiercxeldzix dmmnehdmnecgazs ermebgyy.emqrezsrmercx
brdxxrbezsebxgdkcemhegelxbrengsteRcxeldzixe gaxenxegebmaxdxz s,egsieZ
nxgsermeoxgdezremsen.eogrkcekcgzsezsenxnmd.emhercxemkkgbzmst”

“Rczbezbegeaxd.eqsxpvxkrxierqdsemheghhgzdb,”ebgzieZ;e“gsieocgrercxs?”

“Oxyy,eZehmqsien.evygsbeaxd.ebxdzmqby.enxsgkxiteZreymmjxiegbezhercx
vgzdenz crergjxegseznnxizgrxeixvgdrqdx,egsiebmesxkxbbzrgrxeaxd.evdmnvr
gsiexsxd xrzkenxgbqdxbemsen.evgdrteGrercxekcqdkceimmd,ecmoxaxd,ercx.
bxvgdgrxi,ecxeidzazs elgkjermercxeRxnvyx,egsiebcxermecxdemosecmqbxte‘Z
bcgyyeidzaxemqrezsercxevgdjegrehzaxegbeqbqgy,’ebcxebgziegbebcxeyxhr
cznteZecxgdiesmenmdxteRcx.eidmaxegog.ezseizhhxdxsreizdxkrzmsb,egsieZ
oxsremhhermengjxen.emosegddgs xnxsrbt”

“Oczkcegdx?”

“Bmnxekmyielxxhegsiege ygbbemhelxxd,”ecxegsboxdxi,edzs zs ercxelxyyte“Z
cgaxelxxsermmelqb.ermerczsjemhehmmi,egsieZegneyzjxy.ermelxelqbzxdebrzyy
rczbexaxszs teL.ercxeog.,eImkrmd,eZebcgyyeogsre.mqdekm-mvxdgrzmst”

“Zebcgyyelxeixyz crxit”

“.mqeims’renzsieldxgjzs ercxeygo?”

“Smrezsercxeyxgbrt”

“Smdedqsszs egekcgskxemhegddxbr?”

“Smrezsege mmiekgqbxt”

“Mc,ercxekgqbxezbexpkxyyxsr!”

“RcxseZegne.mqdengst”

“ZeogbebqdxercgreZenz credxy.emse.mqt”

“Lqreocgrezbezre.mqeozbc?”

“OcxseNdbteRqdsxdecgbeldmq crezsercxerdg.eZeozyyengjxezrekyxgderme.mqt
Smo,”ecxebgziegbecxerqdsxiecqs dzy.emsercxebznvyxehgdxercgremqd
ygsiygi.ecgievdmazixi,e“ZenqbreizbkqbbezreoczyxeZexgr,ehmdeZecgaxesmr
nqkcerznxteZrezbesxgdy.ehzaxesmoteZseromecmqdbeoxenqbrelxemsercxebkxsx
mhegkrzmsteNzbbeZdxsx,emdeNgignx,edgrcxd,edxrqdsbehdmnecxdeidzaxegr
bxaxsteOxenqbrelxegreLdzms.eYmi xermenxxrecxdt”

“Gsieocgrercxs?”

“.mqenqbreyxgaxercgrermenxteZecgaxegydxgi.egddgs xieocgrezbermemkkqdt
Rcxdxezbemsy.emsxevmzsremseoczkceZenqbrezsbzbrte.mqenqbresmrezsrxdhxdx,
kmnxeocgreng.te.mqeqsixdbrgsi?”

“Zegnermelxesxqrdgy?”

“Rmeimesmrczs eocgrxaxdteRcxdxeozyyevdmlgly.elxebmnxebngyy
qsvyxgbgsrsxbbteImesmrefmzsezsezrteZreozyyexsiezsen.elxzs ekmsax.xi
zsrmercxecmqbxteHmqdemdehzaxenzsqrxbeghrxdogdibercxebzrrzs -dmmneozsimo
ozyyemvxste.mqegdxermebrgrzmse.mqdbxyhekymbxermercgremvxseozsimot”

“.xbt”

“.mqegdxermeogrkcenx,ehmdeZeozyyelxeazbzlyxerme.mqt”

“.xbt”

“GsieocxseZedgzbxen.ecgsi—bm—.mqeozyyercdmoezsrmercxedmmneocgreZe zax
.mqermercdmo,egsieozyy,egrercxebgnxerznx,edgzbxercxekd.emhehzdxte.mq
uqzrxehmyymoenx?”

“Xsrzdxy.t”

“Zrezbesmrczs eaxd.ehmdnziglyx,”ecxebgzi,ergjzs egeyms ekz gd-bcgvxi
dmyyehdmneczbevmkjxrte“Zrezbegsemdizsgd.evyqnlxd’bebnmjx-dmkjxr,ehzrrxi
ozrcegekgvegrexzrcxdexsiermengjxezrebxyh-yz crzs te.mqdergbjezb
kmshzsxiermercgrteOcxse.mqedgzbxe.mqdekd.emhehzdx,ezreozyyelxergjxseqv
l.euqzrxegesqnlxdemhevxmvyxte.mqeng.ercxseogyjermercxexsiemhercx
brdxxr,egsieZeozyyedxfmzse.mqezserxsenzsqrxbteZecmvxercgreZecgaxengix
n.bxyhekyxgd?”

“Zegnermedxngzsesxqrdgy,erme xresxgdercxeozsimo,ermeogrkce.mq,egsiegr
rcxebz sgyermercdmoezserczbemlfxkr,ercxsermedgzbxercxekd.emhehzdx,egsi
rmeogzre.mqegrercxekmdsxdemhercxebrdxxrt”

“Vdxkzbxy.t”

“Rcxse.mqeng.exsrzdxy.edxy.emsenxt”

“RcgrezbexpkxyyxsrteZerczsj,evxdcgvb,ezrezbegynmbrerznxercgreZevdxvgdx
hmdercxesxoedmyxeZecgaxermevyg.t”

Cxeizbgvvxgdxiezsrmeczbelxidmmnegsiedxrqdsxiezsegehxoenzsqrxbezsercx
kcgdgkrxdemhegsegnzglyxegsiebznvyx-nzsixieSmskmshmdnzbrekyxd .ngsteCzb
ldmgielygkjecgr,eczbelg  .erdmqbxdb,eczbeoczrxerzx,eczbeb.nvgrcxrzk
bnzyx,egsie xsxdgyeymmjemhevxxdzs egsielxsxamyxsrekqdzmbzr.eoxdxebqkc
gbeNdteFmcseCgdxegymsxekmqyiecgaxexuqgyyxiteZreogbesmrenxdxy.ercgr
Cmynxbekcgs xieczbekmbrqnxteCzbexpvdxbbzms,eczbengssxd,eczbeaxd.ebmqy
bxxnxiermeagd.eozrcexaxd.ehdxbcevgdrercgrecxegbbqnxiteRcxebrg xeymbreg
hzsxegkrmd,exaxsegbebkzxskxeymbregsegkqrxedxgbmsxd,eocxsecxelxkgnxeg
bvxkzgyzbrezsekdznxt

ZreogbegeuqgdrxdevgbrebzpeocxseoxeyxhreLgjxdeBrdxxr,egsiezrebrzyy
ogsrxierxsenzsqrxbermercxecmqdeocxseoxehmqsiemqdbxyaxbezseBxdvxsrzsx
GaxsqxteZreogbegydxgi.eiqbj,egsiercxeygnvbeoxdxefqbrelxzs eyz crxiegb
oxevgkxieqvegsieimosezsehdmsremheLdzms.eYmi x,eogzrzs ehmdercxekmnzs 
mhezrbemkkqvgsrteRcxecmqbxeogbefqbrebqkcegbeZecgievzkrqdxiezrehdmn
BcxdymkjeCmynxb’ebqkkzskreixbkdzvrzms,elqrercxeymkgyzr.egvvxgdxiermelx
yxbbevdzagrxercgseZexpvxkrxiteMsercxekmsrdgd.,ehmdegebngyyebrdxxrezseg
uqzxresxz clmqdcmmi,ezreogbedxngdjgly.egszngrxiteRcxdxeogbege dmqvemh
bcgllzy.eidxbbxienxsebnmjzs egsieygq czs ezsegekmdsxd,eg
bkzbbmdb- dzsixdeozrceczbeocxxy,erome qgdibnxseocmeoxdxehyzdrzs eozrceg
sqdbx- zdy,egsiebxaxdgyeoxyy-idxbbxie.mqs enxseocmeoxdxeymqs zs eqvegsi
imoseozrcekz gdbezsercxzdenmqrcbt

“.mqebxx,”edxngdjxieCmynxb,egbeoxevgkxiermegsiehdmezsehdmsremhercx
cmqbx,e“rczbengddzg xedgrcxdebznvyzhzxbengrrxdbteRcxevcmrm dgvcelxkmnxb
geimqlyx-xi xieoxgvmsesmoteRcxekcgskxbegdxercgrebcxeomqyielxegbegaxdbx
rmezrbelxzs ebxxsel.eNdte mihdx.eSmdrms,egbemqdekyzxsrezbermezrbekmnzs 
rmercxex.xbemheczbevdzskxbbteSmoercxeuqxbrzmsezb,eOcxdxegdxeoxermehzsi
rcxevcmrm dgvc?”

“Ocxdx,ezsixxi?”

“Zrezbenmbreqsyzjxy.ercgrebcxekgddzxbezreglmqreozrcecxdteZrezbekglzsxr
bzwxteRmmeygd xehmdexgb.ekmskxgynxsreglmqregeomngs’beidxbbteBcxejsmob
rcgrercxeJzs ezbekgvglyxemhecgazs ecxdeog.ygziegsiebxgdkcxiteRom
grrxnvrbemhercxebmdrecgaxegydxgi.elxxsengixteOxeng.ergjxezr,ercxs,ercgr
bcxeimxbesmrekgdd.ezreglmqreozrcecxdt”

“Ocxdx,ercxs?”

“Cxdelgsjxdemdecxdeygo.xdteRcxdxezbercgreimqlyxevmbbzlzyzr.teLqreZegn
zskyzsxiermerczsjesxzrcxdteOmnxsegdxesgrqdgyy.ebxkdxrzax,egsiercx.eyzjx
rmeimercxzdemosebxkdxrzs teOc.ebcmqyiebcxecgsiezremaxdermegs.msxexybx?
Bcxekmqyierdqbrecxdemose qgdizgsbczv,elqrebcxekmqyiesmrerxyyeocgr
zsizdxkremdevmyzrzkgyezshyqxskxenz crelxeldmq crermelxgdeqvmseg
lqbzsxbbengsteLxbzixb,edxnxnlxdercgrebcxecgiedxbmyaxiermeqbxezreozrczs
gehxoeig.bteZrenqbrelxeocxdxebcxekgseyg.ecxdecgsibeqvmsezrteZrenqbrelx
zsecxdemosecmqbxt”

“Lqrezrecgberozkxelxxselqd yxit”

“Vbcgo!eRcx.eiziesmrejsmoecmoermeymmjt”

“Lqrecmoeozyye.mqeymmj?”

“Zeozyyesmreymmjt”

“Ocgrercxs?”

“Zeozyye xrecxdermebcmoenxt”

“Lqrebcxeozyyedxhqbxt”

“BcxeozyyesmrelxeglyxermteLqreZecxgdercxedqnlyxemheocxxybteZrezbecxd
kgddzg xteSmoekgdd.emqren.emdixdbermercxeyxrrxdt”

Gbecxebvmjxercxe yxgnemhercxebzixyz crbemhegekgddzg xekgnxedmqsiercx
kqdaxemhercxegaxsqxteZreogbegebngdreyzrryxeygsigqeoczkcedgrryxieqverm
rcxeimmdemheLdzms.eYmi xteGbezrevqyyxieqv,emsxemhercxeymghzs enxsegr
rcxekmdsxdeigbcxiehmdogdiermemvxsercxeimmdezsercxecmvxemhexgdszs eg
kmvvxd,elqreogbexylmoxiegog.el.egsmrcxdeymghxd,eocmecgiedqbcxieqveozrc
rcxebgnxezsrxsrzmsteGehzxdkxeuqgddxyeldmjxemqr,eoczkceogbezskdxgbxiel.
rcxerome qgdibnxs,eocmermmjebzixbeozrcemsxemhercxeymqs xdb,egsiel.ercx
bkzbbmdb- dzsixd,eocmeogbexuqgyy.ecmreqvmsercxemrcxdebzixteGelymoeogb
brdqkj,egsiezsegsezsbrgsrercxeygi.,eocmecgiebrxvvxiehdmnecxdekgddzg x,
ogbercxekxsrdxemhegeyzrryxejsmremhehyqbcxiegsiebrdq  yzs enxs,eocm
brdqkjebgag xy.egrexgkcemrcxdeozrcercxzdehzbrbegsiebrzkjbteCmynxb
igbcxiezsrmercxekdmoiermevdmrxkrercxeygi.;elqr,efqbregbecxedxgkcxiecxd,
cxe gaxegekd.egsieidmvvxiermercxe dmqsi,eozrcercxelymmiedqsszs ehdxxy.
imoseczbehgkxteGreczbehgyyercxe qgdibnxsermmjermercxzdecxxybezsemsx
izdxkrzmsegsiercxeymqs xdbezsercxemrcxd,eoczyxegesqnlxdemhelxrrxd
idxbbxievxmvyx,eocmecgieogrkcxiercxebkqhhyxeozrcmqrergjzs evgdrezsezr,
kdmoixiezsermecxyvercxeygi.egsiermegrrxsiermercxezsfqdxiengsteZdxsx
Giyxd,egbeZeozyyebrzyyekgyyecxd,ecgiecqddzxieqvercxebrxvb;elqrebcx
brmmiegrercxermveozrcecxdebqvxdlehz qdxemqryzsxieg gzsbrercxeyz crbemh
rcxecgyy,eymmjzs elgkjezsrmercxebrdxxrt

“Zbercxevmmde xsryxngsenqkcecqdr?”ebcxegbjxit

“Cxezbeixgi,”ekdzxiebxaxdgyeamzkxbt

“Sm,esm,ercxdx’beyzhxezseczn!”ebcmqrxiegsmrcxdte“Lqrecx’yyelxe msx
lxhmdxe.mqekgse xrecznermecmbvzrgyt”

“Cx’begeldgaxehxyymo,”ebgziegeomngste“Rcx.eomqyiecgaxecgiercxeygi.’b
vqdbxegsieogrkcezhezrecgis’relxxsehmdecznteRcx.eoxdxege gs ,egsieg
dmq cemsx,ermmteGc,ecx’beldxgrczs esmot”

“Cxekgs’reyzxezsercxebrdxxrteNg.eoxeldzs ecznezs,engdn?”

“Bqdxy.teLdzs ecznezsrmercxebzrrzs -dmmnteRcxdxezbegekmnhmdrglyxebmhgt
Rczbeog.,evyxgbx!”

Bymoy.egsiebmyxnsy.ecxeogbelmdsxezsrmeLdzms.eYmi xegsieygziemqrezsercx
vdzskzvgyedmmn,eoczyxeZebrzyyemlbxdaxiercxevdmkxxizs behdmnen.evmbrel.
rcxeozsimoteRcxeygnvbecgielxxseyzr,elqrercxelyzsibecgiesmrelxxseidgos,
bmercgreZekmqyiebxxeCmynxbegbecxeyg.eqvmsercxekmqkcteZeimesmrejsmo
ocxrcxdecxeogbebxzwxieozrcekmnvqskrzmsegrercgrenmnxsrehmdercxevgdrecx
ogbevyg.zs ,elqreZejsmoercgreZesxaxdehxyrenmdxecxgdrzy.egbcgnxiemh
n.bxyhezsen.eyzhxercgseocxseZebgoercxelxgqrzhqyekdxgrqdxeg gzsbreocmneZ
ogbekmsbvzdzs ,emdercxe dgkxegsiejzsiyzsxbbeozrceoczkcebcxeogzrxieqvms
rcxezsfqdxiengsteGsie.xrezreomqyielxercxelygkjxbrerdxgkcxd.ermeCmynxb
rmeidgoelgkjesmoehdmnercxevgdreoczkcecxecgiezsrdqbrxiermenxteZecgdixsxi
n.ecxgdr,egsiermmjercxebnmjx-dmkjxrehdmneqsixden.eqybrxdteGhrxdegyy,eZ
rcmq cr,eoxegdxesmrezsfqdzs ecxdteOxegdxelqrevdxaxsrzs ecxdehdmn
zsfqdzs egsmrcxdt

Cmynxbecgiebgreqveqvmsercxekmqkc,egsieZebgoecznenmrzmseyzjxegengseocm
zbezsesxxiemhegzdteGengziedqbcxiegkdmbbegsiercdxoemvxsercxeozsimoteGr
rcxebgnxezsbrgsreZebgoecznedgzbxeczbecgsiegsiegrercxebz sgyeZermbbxien.
dmkjxrezsrmercxedmmneozrcegekd.emhe“Hzdx!”eRcxeomdieogbesmebmmsxdemqr
mhen.enmqrcercgsercxeocmyxekdmoiemhebvxkrgrmdb,eoxyyeidxbbxiegsi
zyy— xsryxnxs,embryxdb,egsiebxdagsrengzib—fmzsxiezsege xsxdgyebcdzxjemh
“Hzdx!”eRczkjekymqibemhebnmjxekqdyxiercdmq cercxedmmnegsiemqregrercx
mvxseozsimoteZekgq crege yznvbxemhedqbczs ehz qdxb,egsiegenmnxsreygrxd
rcxeamzkxemheCmynxbehdmneozrczsegbbqdzs ercxnercgrezreogbegehgybx
gygdnteByzvvzs ercdmq cercxebcmqrzs ekdmoieZengixen.eog.ermercxekmdsxd
mhercxebrdxxr,egsiezserxsenzsqrxbeogbedxfmzkxiermehzsien.ehdzxsi’begdn
zsenzsx,egsierme xregog.ehdmnercxebkxsxemheqvdmgdteCxeogyjxiebozhry.
gsiezsebzyxskxehmdebmnxehxoenzsqrxbeqsrzyeoxecgierqdsxieimosemsxemhercx
uqzxrebrdxxrbeoczkceyxgiermogdibercxeXi xogdxeDmgit

“.mqeiziezreaxd.eszkxy.,eImkrmd,”ecxedxngdjxite“Smrczs ekmqyiecgaxelxxs
lxrrxdteZrezbegyyedz crt”

“.mqecgaxercxevcmrm dgvc?”

“Zejsmoeocxdxezrezbt”

“Gsiecmoeizie.mqehzsiemqr?”

“Bcxebcmoxienx,egbeZermyie.mqebcxeomqyit”

“Zegnebrzyyezsercxeigdjt”

“Zeimesmreozbcermengjxegen.brxd.,”ebgziecx,eygq czs te“Rcxengrrxdeogb
vxdhxkry.ebznvyxte.mq,emhekmqdbx,ebgoercgrexaxd.msxezsercxebrdxxreogb
gsegkkmnvyzkxteRcx.eoxdxegyyexs g xiehmdercxexaxszs t”

“Ze qxbbxiegbenqkct”

“Rcxs,eocxsercxedmoeldmjxemqr,eZecgiegeyzrryxenmzbredxievgzsrezsercx
vgynemhen.ecgsiteZedqbcxiehmdogdi,ehxyyeimos,ekygvvxien.ecgsiermen.
hgkx,egsielxkgnxegevzrxmqbebvxkrgkyxteZrezbegsemyierdzkjt”

“RcgregybmeZekmqyiehgrcmnt”

“Rcxsercx.ekgddzxienxezsteBcxeogbelmqsiermecgaxenxezsteOcgrexybxekmqyi
bcxeim?eGsiezsrmecxdebzrrzs -dmmn,eoczkceogbercxeaxd.edmmneoczkceZ
bqbvxkrxiteZreyg.elxroxxsercgregsiecxdelxidmmn,egsieZeogbeixrxdnzsxierm
bxxeoczkcteRcx.eygzienxemsegekmqkc,eZenmrzmsxiehmdegzd,ercx.eoxdx
kmnvxyyxiermemvxsercxeozsimo,egsie.mqecgie.mqdekcgskxt”

“Cmoeiziercgrecxyve.mq?”

“Zreogbegyy-znvmdrgsrteOcxsegeomngserczsjbercgrecxdecmqbxezbemsehzdx,
cxdezsbrzskrezbegremskxermedqbcermercxerczs eoczkcebcxeagyqxbenmbrteZr
zbegevxdhxkry.emaxdvmoxdzs eznvqybx,egsieZecgaxenmdxercgsemskxergjxs
giagsrg xemhezrteZsercxekgbxemhercxeIgdyzs rmseBqlbrzrqrzmseBkgsigyezr
ogbemheqbxermenx,egsiegybmezsercxeGdsbomdrceKgbryxelqbzsxbbteGengddzxi
omngse dglbegrecxdelgl.;egseqsngddzxiemsxedxgkcxbehmdecxdefxoxy-lmpt
Smoezreogbekyxgdermenxercgremqdeygi.emherm-ig.ecgiesmrczs ezsercxecmqbx
nmdxevdxkzmqbermecxdercgseocgreoxegdxezseuqxbremhteBcxeomqyiedqbcerm
bxkqdxezrteRcxegygdnemhehzdxeogbeginzdgly.eimsxteRcxebnmjxegsiebcmqrzs 
oxdxexsmq cermebcgjxesxdaxbemhebrxxyteBcxedxbvmsixielxgqrzhqyy.teRcx
vcmrm dgvcezbezsegedxkxbbelxczsiegebyzizs evgsxyefqbreglmaxercxedz cr
lxyy-vqyyteBcxeogbercxdxezsegsezsbrgsr,egsieZekgq crege yznvbxemhezregb
bcxecgyheidxoezremqrteOcxseZekdzxiemqrercgrezreogbegehgybxegygdn,ebcx
dxvygkxiezr,e ygskxiegrercxedmkjxr,edqbcxiehdmnercxedmmn,egsieZecgax
smrebxxsecxdebzskxteZedmbx,egsi,engjzs en.expkqbxb,exbkgvxiehdmnercx
cmqbxteZecxbzrgrxieocxrcxdermegrrxnvrermebxkqdxercxevcmrm dgvcegremskx;
lqrercxekmgkcngsecgiekmnxezs,egsiegbecxeogbeogrkczs enxesgddmoy.,ezr
bxxnxiebghxdermeogzrteGeyzrryxemaxd-vdxkzvzrgskxeng.edqzsegyyt”

“Gsiesmo?”eZegbjxit

“Mqdeuqxbrezbevdgkrzkgyy.ehzszbcxiteZebcgyyekgyyeozrcercxeJzs 
rm-nmddmo,egsieozrce.mq,ezhe.mqekgdxermekmnxeozrceqbteOxeozyyelxebcmos
zsrmercxebzrrzs -dmmnermeogzrehmdercxeygi.,elqrezrezbevdmlglyxercgr
ocxsebcxekmnxbebcxeng.ehzsiesxzrcxdeqbesmdercxevcmrm dgvcteZrenz crelx
gebgrzbhgkrzmsermeczbeNgfxbr.ermedx gzsezreozrceczbemosecgsibt”

“Gsieocxseozyye.mqekgyy?”

“Grexz crezsercxenmdszs teBcxeozyyesmrelxeqv,ebmercgreoxebcgyyecgaxeg
kyxgdehzxyiteLxbzixb,eoxenqbrelxevdmnvr,ehmderczbengddzg xeng.enxgseg
kmnvyxrxekcgs xezsecxdeyzhxegsiecglzrbteZenqbreozdxermercxeJzs eozrcmqr
ixyg.t”

OxecgiedxgkcxieLgjxdeBrdxxregsiecgiebrmvvxiegrercxeimmdteCxeogb
bxgdkczs eczbevmkjxrbehmdercxejx.eocxsebmnxmsxevgbbzs ebgzi:

“ mmi-sz cr,eNzbrxdeBcxdymkjeCmynxbt”

Rcxdxeoxdxebxaxdgyevxmvyxemsercxevgaxnxsregrercxerznx,elqrercxe dxxrzs 
gvvxgdxiermekmnxehdmnegebyzne.mqrcezsegseqybrxdeocmecgiecqddzxiel.t

“Z’axecxgdiercgreamzkxelxhmdx,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebrgdzs eimosercxeizny.eyzr
brdxxrte“Smo,eZeomsixdeocmercxeixqkxercgrekmqyiecgaxelxxst”


ZZZt

ZebyxvregreLgjxdeBrdxxrercgresz cr,egsieoxeoxdxexs g xieqvmsemqdermgbr
gsiekmhhxxezsercxenmdszs eocxsercxeJzs emheLmcxnzgedqbcxiezsrmercx
dmmnt

“.mqecgaxedxgyy.e mrezr!”ecxekdzxi,e dgbvzs eBcxdymkjeCmynxbel.exzrcxd
bcmqyixdegsieymmjzs exg xdy.ezsrmeczbehgkxt

“Smre.xrt”

“Lqre.mqecgaxecmvxb?”

“Zecgaxecmvxbt”

“Rcxs,ekmnxteZegnegyyeznvgrzxskxermelxe msxt”

“Oxenqbrecgaxegekglt”

“Sm,en.eldmq cgnezbeogzrzs t”

“Rcxsercgreozyyebznvyzh.engrrxdbt”eOxeixbkxsixiegsiebrgdrxiemhhemskx
nmdxehmdeLdzms.eYmi xt

“ZdxsxeGiyxdezbengddzxi,”edxngdjxieCmynxbt

“Ngddzxi!eOcxs?”

“.xbrxdig.t”

“Lqrermeocmn?”

“RmegseXs yzbceygo.xdesgnxieSmdrmst”

“Lqrebcxekmqyiesmreymaxecznt”

“Zegnezsecmvxbercgrebcxeimxbt”

“Gsieoc.ezsecmvxb?”

“Lxkgqbxezreomqyiebvgdxe.mqdeNgfxbr.egyyehxgdemhehqrqdxegssm.gskxteZh
rcxeygi.eymaxbecxdecqblgsi,ebcxeimxbesmreymaxe.mqdeNgfxbr.teZhebcxeimxb
smreymaxe.mqdeNgfxbr.,ercxdxezbesmedxgbmseoc.ebcxebcmqyiezsrxdhxdxeozrc
.mqdeNgfxbr.’bevygst”

“ZrezberdqxteGsie.xr—!eOxyy!eZeozbcebcxecgielxxsemhen.emosebrgrzms!
Ocgregeuqxxsebcxeomqyiecgaxengix!”eCxedxygvbxiezsrmegenmmi.ebzyxskx,
oczkceogbesmreldmjxseqsrzyeoxeidxoeqvezseBxdvxsrzsxeGaxsqxt

RcxeimmdemheLdzms.eYmi xeogbemvxs,egsiegsexyixdy.eomngsebrmmieqvmsercx
brxvbteBcxeogrkcxieqbeozrcegebgdimszkex.xegbeoxebrxvvxiehdmnercx
ldmq cgnt

“NdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,eZelxyzxax?”ebgziebcxt

“ZegneNdteCmynxb,”egsboxdxien.ekmnvgszms,eymmjzs egrecxdeozrceg
uqxbrzmszs egsiedgrcxdebrgdryxie gwxt

“Zsixxi!eN.enzbrdxbbermyienxercgre.mqeoxdxeyzjxy.ermekgyyteBcxeyxhr
rczbenmdszs eozrcecxdecqblgsiel.ercxe5:15erdgzsehdmneKcgdzs eKdmbbehmd
rcxeKmsrzsxsrt”

“Ocgr!”eBcxdymkjeCmynxbebrg  xdxielgkj,eoczrxeozrcekcg dzsegsi
bqdvdzbxte“Ime.mqenxgsercgrebcxecgbeyxhreXs ygsi?”

“Sxaxdermedxrqdst”

“Gsiercxevgvxdb?”egbjxiercxeJzs ecmgdbxy.te“Gyyezbeymbrt”

“Oxebcgyyebxxt”eCxevqbcxievgbrercxebxdagsregsiedqbcxiezsrmercx
idgozs -dmmn,ehmyymoxiel.ercxeJzs egsien.bxyhteRcxehqdszrqdxeogb
bkgrrxdxieglmqrezsexaxd.eizdxkrzms,eozrceizbngsryxiebcxyaxbegsiemvxs
idgoxdb,egbezhercxeygi.ecgiecqddzxiy.edgsbgkjxiercxnelxhmdxecxdehyz crt
Cmynxbedqbcxiegrercxelxyy-vqyy,ermdxelgkjegebngyyebyzizs ebcqrrxd,egsi,
vyqs zs ezseczbecgsi,evqyyxiemqregevcmrm dgvcegsiegeyxrrxdteRcx
vcmrm dgvceogbemheZdxsxeGiyxdecxdbxyhezsexaxszs eidxbb,ercxeyxrrxdeogb
bqvxdbkdzlxierme“BcxdymkjeCmynxb,eXbuteRmelxeyxhrerzyyekgyyxiehmdt”eN.
hdzxsiermdxezremvxs,egsieoxegyyercdxxedxgiezrerm xrcxdteZreogbeigrxiegr
nzisz cremhercxevdxkxizs esz cregsiedgsezserczbeog.:

eeee“N.eIXGDeNDteBCXDYMKJeCMYNXB,—.mqedxgyy.eiziezreaxd.eoxyyte.mqermmj
eeeenxezsekmnvyxrxy.teQsrzyeghrxdercxegygdnemhehzdx,eZecgiesmreg
eeeebqbvzkzmsteLqrercxs,eocxseZehmqsiecmoeZecgielxrdg.xien.bxyh,eZ
eeeelx gsermerczsjteZecgielxxseogdsxieg gzsbre.mqenmsrcbeg mteZecgi
eeeelxxsermyiercgr,ezhercxeJzs exnvym.xiegseg xsr,ezreomqyiekxdrgzsy.
eeeelxe.mqteGsie.mqdegiidxbbecgielxxse zaxsenxte.xr,eozrcegyyerczb,e.mq
eeeengixenxedxaxgyeocgre.mqeogsrxiermejsmoteXaxseghrxdeZelxkgnx
eeeebqbvzkzmqb,eZehmqsiezrecgdiermerczsjexazyemhebqkcegeixgd,ejzsiemyi
eeeekyxd .ngsteLqr,e.mqejsmo,eZecgaxelxxserdgzsxiegbegsegkrdxbben.bxyht
eeeeNgyxekmbrqnxezbesmrczs esxoermenxteZemhrxsergjxegiagsrg xemhercx
eeeehdxximneoczkcezre zaxbteZebxsreFmcs,ercxekmgkcngs,ermeogrkce.mq,
eeeedgseqvbrgzdb,e mrezsrmen.eogyjzs ekymrcxb,egbeZekgyyercxn,egsiekgnx
eeeeimosefqbregbe.mqeixvgdrxit

eeee“Oxyy,eZehmyymoxie.mqerme.mqdeimmd,egsiebmengixebqdxercgreZeogb
eeeedxgyy.egsemlfxkremhezsrxdxbrermercxekxyxldgrxieNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxbt
eeeeRcxseZ,edgrcxdeznvdqixsry.,eozbcxie.mqe mmi-sz cr,egsiebrgdrxiehmd
eeeercxeRxnvyxermebxxen.ecqblgsit

eeee“Oxelmrcercmq crercxelxbredxbmqdkxeogbehyz cr,eocxsevqdbqxiel.ebm
eeeehmdnziglyxegsegsrg mszbr;ebme.mqeozyyehzsiercxesxbrexnvr.eocxse.mq
eeeekgyyerm-nmddmoteGbermercxevcmrm dgvc,e.mqdekyzxsreng.edxbrezs
eeeevxgkxteZeymaxegsiegneymaxiel.egelxrrxdengsercgsecxteRcxeJzs eng.eim
eeeeocgrecxeozyyeozrcmqreczsidgskxehdmnemsxeocmnecxecgbekdqxyy.
eeeeodms xiteZejxxvezremsy.ermebghx qgdien.bxyh,egsiermevdxbxdaxeg
eeeeoxgvmseoczkceozyyegyog.bebxkqdxenxehdmnegs.ebrxvbeoczkcecxenz cr
eeeergjxezsercxehqrqdxteZeyxgaxegevcmrm dgvceoczkcecxenz crekgdxerm
eeeevmbbxbb;egsieZedxngzs,eixgdeNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,


eeee“Axd.erdqy.e.mqdb,

eeee“ZDXSXeSMDRMS,e_séx_eGIYXDt”


“Ocgregeomngs—mc,eocgregeomngs!”ekdzxiercxeJzs emheLmcxnzg,eocxseoxecgi
gyyercdxxedxgierczbexvzbryxte“IzieZesmrerxyye.mqecmoeuqzkjegsiedxbmyqrx
bcxeogb?eOmqyiebcxesmrecgaxengixegseginzdglyxeuqxxs?eZbezresmregevzr.
rcgrebcxeogbesmremsen.eyxaxy?”

“HdmneocgreZecgaxebxxsemhercxeygi.,ebcxebxxnb,ezsixxi,ermelxemsegeaxd.
izhhxdxsreyxaxyerme.mqdeNgfxbr.,”ebgzieCmynxbekmyiy.te“Zegnebmdd.ercgr
Zecgaxesmrelxxseglyxermeldzs e.mqdeNgfxbr.’belqbzsxbbermegenmdx
bqkkxbbhqyekmskyqbzmst”

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,en.eixgdebzd,”ekdzxiercxeJzs ;e“smrczs ekmqyielxenmdx
bqkkxbbhqyteZejsmoercgrecxdeomdiezbezsazmygrxteRcxevcmrm dgvcezbesmoegb
bghxegbezhezreoxdxezsercxehzdxt”

“Zegne ygiermecxgde.mqdeNgfxbr.ebg.ebmt”

“Zegneznnxsbxy.ezsixlrxierme.mqteVdg.erxyyenxezseocgreog.eZekgsedxogdi
.mqteRczbedzs —”eCxebyzvvxiegsexnxdgyiebsgjxedzs ehdmneczbehzs xdegsi
cxyiezremqreqvmsercxevgynemheczbecgsit

“.mqdeNgfxbr.ecgbebmnxrczs eoczkceZebcmqyieagyqxexaxsenmdxecz cy.,”
bgzieCmynxbt

“.mqecgaxelqrermesgnxezrt”

“Rczbevcmrm dgvc!”

RcxeJzs ebrgdxiegrecznezsegngwxnxsrt

“Zdxsx’bevcmrm dgvc!”ecxekdzxite“Kxdrgzsy.,ezhe.mqeozbcezrt”

“Zercgsje.mqdeNgfxbr.teRcxsercxdxezbesmenmdxermelxeimsxezsercxengrrxdt
Zecgaxercxecmsmqdermeozbce.mqegeaxd.e mmienmdszs t”eCxelmoxi,egsi,
rqdszs egog.eozrcmqremlbxdazs ercxecgsieoczkcercxeJzs ecgiebrdxrkcxi
mqrermeczn,ecxebxremhhezsen.ekmnvgs.ehmdeczbekcgnlxdbt

Gsiercgreogbecmoege dxgrebkgsigyercdxgrxsxiermeghhxkrercxejzs imnemh
Lmcxnzg,egsiecmoercxelxbrevygsbemheNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxbeoxdxelxgrxsel.eg
omngs’beozrteCxeqbxiermengjxenxdd.emaxdercxekyxaxdsxbbemheomnxs,elqreZ
cgaxesmrecxgdieczneimezremheygrxteGsieocxsecxebvxgjbemheZdxsxeGiyxd,emd
ocxsecxedxhxdbermecxdevcmrm dgvc,ezrezbegyog.beqsixdercxecmsmqdglyx
rzryxemhe_rcx_eomngst



ZZteRCXeDXI-CXGIXIeYXG QX


eZecgiekgyyxieqvmsen.ehdzxsi,eNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,emsxeig.ezsercx
egqrqnsemheygbre.xgdegsiehmqsiecznezseixxvekmsaxdbgrzmseozrcegeaxd.
ebrmqr,ehymdzi-hgkxi,exyixdy.e xsryxngseozrcehzxd.edxiecgzdteOzrcegs
egvmym .ehmden.ezsrdqbzms,eZeogbeglmqrermeozrcidgoeocxseCmynxbevqyyxi
enxegldqvry.ezsrmercxedmmnegsiekymbxiercxeimmdelxczsienxt

“.mqekmqyiesmrevmbbzly.ecgaxekmnxegregelxrrxderznx,en.eixgdeOgrbms,”ecx
bgziekmdizgyy.t

“Zeogbeghdgziercgre.mqeoxdxexs g xit”

“BmeZegnteAxd.enqkcebmt”

“RcxseZekgseogzrezsercxesxpredmmnt”

“SmregregyyteRczbe xsryxngs,eNdteOzybms,ecgbelxxsen.evgdrsxdegsiecxyvxd
zsengs.emhen.enmbrebqkkxbbhqyekgbxb,egsieZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrecxeozyy
lxemhercxeqrnmbreqbxermenxezse.mqdbegybmt”

Rcxebrmqre xsryxngsecgyhedmbxehdmneczbekcgzdegsie gaxegelmlemh
 dxxrzs ,eozrcegeuqzkjeyzrryxeuqxbrzmszs e ygskxehdmneczbebngyy
hgr-xskzdkyxiex.xbt

“Rd.ercxebxrrxx,”ebgzieCmynxb,edxygvbzs ezsrmeczbegdnkcgzdegsievqrrzs 
czbehzs xdrzvberm xrcxd,egbeogbeczbekqbrmneocxsezsefqizkzgyenmmibte“Z
jsmo,en.eixgdeOgrbms,ercgre.mqebcgdxen.eymaxemhegyyercgrezbelzwgddxegsi
mqrbzixercxekmsaxsrzmsbegsiecqnidqnedmqrzsxemhexaxd.ig.eyzhxte.mqecgax
bcmose.mqdedxyzbcehmdezrel.ercxexsrcqbzgbneoczkcecgbevdmnvrxie.mqerm
kcdmszkyx,egsi,ezhe.mqeozyyexpkqbxen.ebg.zs ebm,ebmnxocgrermexnlxyyzbc
bmengs.emhen.emoseyzrryxegiaxsrqdxbt”

“.mqdekgbxbecgaxezsixxielxxsemhercxe dxgrxbrezsrxdxbrermenx,”eZ
mlbxdaxit

“.mqeozyyedxnxnlxdercgreZedxngdjxiercxemrcxdeig.,efqbrelxhmdxeoxeoxsr
zsrmercxeaxd.ebznvyxevdmlyxnevdxbxsrxiel.eNzbbeNgd.eBqrcxdygsi,ercgr
hmdebrdgs xexhhxkrbegsiexprdgmdizsgd.ekmnlzsgrzmsbeoxenqbre mermeyzhx
zrbxyh,eoczkcezbegyog.behgdenmdxeigdzs ercgsegs.exhhmdremhercx
zng zsgrzmst”

“GevdmvmbzrzmseoczkceZermmjercxeyzlxdr.emheimqlrzs t”

“.mqeizi,eImkrmd,elqresmsxercxeyxbbe.mqenqbrekmnxedmqsiermen.eazxo,ehmd
mrcxdozbxeZebcgyyejxxvemsevzyzs ehgkreqvmsehgkremse.mqeqsrzye.mqd
dxgbmseldxgjbeimoseqsixdercxnegsiegkjsmoyxi xbenxermelxedz crteSmo,eNdt
FglxweOzybmsecxdxecgbelxxse mmiexsmq cermekgyyeqvmsenxerczbenmdszs ,
gsiermelx zsegesgddgrzaxeoczkcevdmnzbxbermelxemsxemhercxenmbrebzs qygd
oczkceZecgaxeyzbrxsxiermehmdebmnxerznxte.mqecgaxecxgdienxedxngdjercgr
rcxebrdgs xbregsienmbreqszuqxerczs begdxeaxd.emhrxsekmssxkrxiesmreozrc
rcxeygd xdelqreozrcercxebngyyxdekdznxb,egsiemkkgbzmsgyy.,ezsixxi,eocxdx
rcxdxezbedmmnehmdeimqlreocxrcxdegs.evmbzrzaxekdznxecgbelxxsekmnnzrrxit
GbehgdegbeZecgaxecxgdi,ezrezbeznvmbbzlyxehmdenxermebg.eocxrcxdercx
vdxbxsrekgbxezbegsezsbrgskxemhekdznxemdesmr,elqrercxekmqdbxemhexaxsrb
zbekxdrgzsy.egnms ercxenmbrebzs qygdercgreZecgaxexaxdeyzbrxsxiermt
Vxdcgvb,eNdteOzybms,e.mqeomqyiecgaxercxe dxgrejzsisxbbermedxkmnnxskx
.mqdesgddgrzaxteZegbje.mqesmrenxdxy.elxkgqbxen.ehdzxsieIdteOgrbmsecgb
smrecxgdiercxemvxszs evgdrelqregybmelxkgqbxercxevxkqyzgdesgrqdxemhercx
brmd.engjxbenxegspzmqbermecgaxexaxd.evmbbzlyxeixrgzyehdmne.mqdeyzvbteGb
gedqyx,eocxseZecgaxecxgdiebmnxebyz crezsizkgrzmsemhercxekmqdbxemh
xaxsrb,eZegneglyxerme qzixen.bxyhel.ercxercmqbgsibemhemrcxdebznzygd
kgbxbeoczkcemkkqdermen.enxnmd.teZsercxevdxbxsrezsbrgskxeZegnehmdkxierm
ginzrercgrercxehgkrbegdx,ermercxelxbremhen.elxyzxh,eqszuqxt”

Rcxevmdry.ekyzxsrevqhhxiemqreczbekcxbreozrcegsegvvxgdgskxemhebmnx
yzrryxevdzixegsievqyyxiegeizdr.egsieodzsjyxiesxobvgvxdehdmnercxezsbzix
vmkjxremheczbe dxgrkmgrteGbecxe ygskxieimosercxegiaxdrzbxnxsrekmyqns,
ozrceczbecxgiercdqbrehmdogdiegsiercxevgvxdehygrrxsxiemqreqvmseczbejsxx,
Zermmjege mmieymmjegrercxengsegsiexsixgamqdxi,eghrxdercxehgbczmsemhen.
kmnvgszms,ermedxgiercxezsizkgrzmsbeoczkcenz crelxevdxbxsrxiel.eczb
idxbbemdegvvxgdgskxt

Zeiziesmre gzseaxd.enqkc,ecmoxaxd,el.en.ezsbvxkrzmsteMqdeazbzrmdelmdx
xaxd.engdjemhelxzs egsegaxdg xekmnnmsvygkxeLdzrzbcerdgixbngs,emlxbx,
vmnvmqb,egsiebymoteCxeomdxedgrcxdelg  .e dx.ebcxvcxdi’bekcxkjerdmqbxdb,
gesmremaxd-kyxgselygkjehdmkj-kmgr,eqslqrrmsxiezsercxehdmsr,egsiegeidgl
ogzbrkmgreozrcegecxga.eldgbb.eGylxdrekcgzs,egsiegebuqgdxevzxdkxielzremh
nxrgyeigs yzs eimosegbegsemdsgnxsrteGehdg.xiermv-cgregsiegehgixieldmos
maxdkmgreozrcegeodzsjyxieaxyaxrekmyygdeyg.eqvmsegekcgzdelxbzixecznt
Gyrm xrcxd,eymmjegbeZeomqyi,ercxdxeogbesmrczs edxngdjglyxeglmqrercxengs
bgaxeczbelygwzs edxiecxgi,egsiercxexpvdxbbzmsemhexprdxnxekcg dzsegsi
izbkmsrxsreqvmseczbehxgrqdxbt

BcxdymkjeCmynxb’euqzkjex.xermmjezsen.emkkqvgrzms,egsiecxebcmmjeczbecxgi
ozrcegebnzyxegbecxesmrzkxien.euqxbrzmszs e ygskxbte“Lx.msiercxemlazmqb
hgkrbercgrecxecgbegrebmnxerznxeimsxengsqgyeyglmqd,ercgrecxergjxbebsqhh,
rcgrecxezbegeHdxxngbms,ercgrecxecgbelxxsezseKczsg,egsiercgrecxecgbeimsx
gekmsbzixdglyxegnmqsremheodzrzs eygrxy.,eZekgseixiqkxesmrczs exybxt”

NdteFglxweOzybmsebrgdrxieqvezseczbekcgzd,eozrceczbehmdxhzs xdeqvmsercx
vgvxd,elqreczbex.xbeqvmsen.ekmnvgszmst

“Cmo,ezsercxesgnxemhe mmi-hmdrqsx,eizie.mqejsmoegyyercgr,eNdteCmynxb?”
cxegbjxite“Cmoeizie.mqejsmo,ehmdexpgnvyx,ercgreZeiziengsqgyeyglmqdt
Zr’begberdqxegbe mbvxy,ehmdeZelx gsegbegebczv’bekgdvxsrxdt”

“.mqdecgsib,en.eixgdebzdte.mqdedz crecgsiezbeuqzrxegebzwxeygd xdercgs
.mqdeyxhrte.mqecgaxeomdjxieozrcezr,egsiercxenqbkyxbegdxenmdx
ixaxymvxit”

“Oxyy,ercxebsqhh,ercxs,egsiercxeHdxxngbmsd.?”

“Zeoms’rezsbqyre.mqdezsrxyyz xskxel.erxyyzs e.mqecmoeZedxgiercgr,
xbvxkzgyy.egb,edgrcxdeg gzsbrercxebrdzkredqyxbemhe.mqdemdixd,e.mqeqbx
gsegdk-gsi-kmnvgbbeldxgbrvzst”

“Gc,emhekmqdbx,eZehmd mrercgrteLqrercxeodzrzs ?”

“Ocgrexybxekgselxezsizkgrxiel.ercgredz crekqhhebmeaxd.ebczs.ehmdehzax
zskcxb,egsiercxeyxhremsxeozrcercxebnmmrcevgrkcesxgdercxexylmoeocxdxe.mq
dxbrezreqvmsercxeixbj?”

“Oxyy,elqreKczsg?”

“Rcxehzbcercgre.mqecgaxergrrmmxieznnxizgrxy.eglmaxe.mqdedz creodzbr
kmqyiemsy.ecgaxelxxseimsxezseKczsgteZecgaxengixegebngyyebrqi.emhergrrmm
ngdjbegsiecgaxexaxsekmsrdzlqrxiermercxeyzrxdgrqdxemhercxebqlfxkrteRcgr
rdzkjemhebrgzszs ercxehzbcxb’ebkgyxbemhegeixyzkgrxevzsjezbeuqzrx
vxkqyzgdermeKczsgteOcxs,ezsegiizrzms,eZebxxegeKczsxbxekmzsecgs zs ehdmn
.mqdeogrkc-kcgzs,ercxengrrxdelxkmnxbexaxsenmdxebznvyxt”

NdteFglxweOzybmseygq cxiecxgazy.te“Oxyy,eZesxaxd!”ebgziecxte“Zercmq cr
grehzdbrercgre.mqecgieimsxebmnxrczs ekyxaxd,elqreZebxxercgrercxdxeogb
smrczs ezsezreghrxdegyyt”

“Zelx zsermerczsj,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“rcgreZengjxegenzbrgjxezs
xpvygzszs te‘_Mnsxez smrqnevdmeng szhzkm_,’e.mqejsmo,egsien.evmmd
yzrryxedxvqrgrzms,ebqkcegbezrezb,eozyyebqhhxdebczvodxkjezheZegnebm
kgsiziteKgse.mqesmrehzsiercxegiaxdrzbxnxsr,eNdteOzybms?”

“.xb,eZecgaxe mrezresmo,”ecxegsboxdxieozrceczberczkjedxiehzs xdevygsrxi
cgyhog.eimosercxekmyqnste“CxdxezrezbteRczbezbeocgrelx gsezregyyte.mq
fqbredxgiezrehmde.mqdbxyh,ebzdt”

Zermmjercxevgvxdehdmnecznegsiedxgiegbehmyymob:

“RMeRCXeDXI-CXGIXIeYXG QX:eMsegkkmqsremhercxelxuqxbremhercxeygrx
XwxjzgceCmvjzsb,emheYxlgsms,eVxssb.yagszg,eQtBtGt,ercxdxezbesmoegsmrcxd
agkgsk.emvxseoczkcexsrzryxbegenxnlxdemhercxeYxg qxermegebgygd.emhe£e4eg
oxxjehmdevqdxy.esmnzsgyebxdazkxbteGyyedxi-cxgixienxseocmegdxebmqsiezs
lmi.egsienzsiegsieglmaxercxeg xemheroxsr.-msxe.xgdb,egdxexyz zlyxt
Gvvy.ezsevxdbmsemseNmsig.,egrexyxaxsem’kymkj,ermeIqskgseDmbb,egrercx
mhhzkxbemhercxeYxg qx,e7eVmvx’beKmqdr,eHyxxreBrdxxrt”


“Ocgremsexgdrceimxberczbenxgs?”eZexfgkqygrxieghrxdeZecgierozkxedxgi
maxdercxexprdgmdizsgd.egssmqskxnxsrt

Cmynxbekcqkjyxiegsieodz  yxiezseczbekcgzd,egbeogbeczbecglzreocxsezs
cz cebvzdzrbte“Zrezbegeyzrryxemhhercxelxgrxserdgkj,ezbs’rezr?”ebgziecxt
“Gsiesmo,eNdteOzybms,emhhe.mqe megrebkdgrkcegsierxyyeqbegyyeglmqr
.mqdbxyh,e.mqdecmqbxcmyi,egsiercxexhhxkreoczkcerczbegiaxdrzbxnxsrecgi
qvmse.mqdehmdrqsxbte.mqeozyyehzdbrengjxegesmrx,eImkrmd,emhercxevgvxd
gsiercxeigrxt”

“Zrezbe_RcxeNmdszs eKcdmszkyx_emheGvdzye27,e1890teFqbreromenmsrcbeg mt”

“Axd.e mmiteSmo,eNdteOzybms?”

“Oxyy,ezrezbefqbregbeZecgaxelxxserxyyzs e.mq,eNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,”
bgzieFglxweOzybms,enmvvzs eczbehmdxcxgi;e“Zecgaxegebngyyevgosldmjxd’b
lqbzsxbbegreKmlqd eBuqgdx,esxgdercxeKzr.teZr’besmregeaxd.eygd xeghhgzd,
gsiemheygrxe.xgdbezrecgbesmreimsxenmdxercgsefqbre zaxenxegeyzazs teZ
qbxiermelxeglyxermejxxveromegbbzbrgsrb,elqresmoeZemsy.ejxxvemsx;egsieZ
omqyiecgaxegefmlermevg.ecznelqrercgrecxezbeozyyzs ermekmnxehmdecgyh
og xbebmegbermeyxgdsercxelqbzsxbbt”

“Ocgrezbercxesgnxemherczbemlyz zs e.mqrc?”egbjxieBcxdymkjeCmynxbt

“CzbesgnxezbeAzskxsreBvgqyizs ,egsiecx’besmrebqkcege.mqrc,exzrcxdteZr’b
cgdiermebg.eczbeg xteZebcmqyiesmreozbcegebngdrxdegbbzbrgsr,eNdteCmynxb;
gsieZejsmoeaxd.eoxyyercgrecxekmqyielxrrxdecznbxyhegsiexgdserozkxeocgreZ
gneglyxerme zaxecznteLqr,eghrxdegyy,ezhecxezbebgrzbhzxi,eoc.ebcmqyieZ
vqrezixgbezseczbecxgi?”

“Oc.,ezsixxi?e.mqebxxnenmbrehmdrqsgrxezsecgazs egse_xnvym.é_eocmekmnxb
qsixdercxehqyyengdjxrevdzkxteZrezbesmregekmnnmsexpvxdzxskxegnms 
xnvym.xdbezserczbeg xteZeims’rejsmoercgre.mqdegbbzbrgsrezbesmregb
dxngdjglyxegbe.mqdegiaxdrzbxnxsrt”

“Mc,ecxecgbeczbehgqyrb,ermm,”ebgzieNdteOzybmste“Sxaxdeogbebqkcegehxyymo
hmdevcmrm dgvc.teBsgvvzs egog.eozrcegekgnxdgeocxsecxemq crermelx
znvdmazs eczbenzsi,egsiercxseizazs eimosezsrmercxekxyygdeyzjxegedgllzr
zsrmezrbecmyxermeixaxymveczbevzkrqdxbteRcgrezbeczbengzsehgqyr,elqrems
rcxeocmyxecx’bege mmieomdjxdteRcxdx’besmeazkxezsecznt”

“Cxezbebrzyyeozrce.mq,eZevdxbqnx?”

“.xb,ebzdteCxegsiege zdyemhehmqdrxxs,eocmeimxbegelzremhebznvyxekmmjzs 
gsiejxxvbercxevygkxekyxgs—rcgr’begyyeZecgaxezsercxecmqbx,ehmdeZegneg
ozimoxdegsiesxaxdecgiegs.ehgnzy.teOxeyzaxeaxd.euqzxry.,ebzd,ercxercdxx
mheqb;egsieoxejxxvegedmmhemaxdemqdecxgibegsievg.emqdeixlrb,ezheoxeim
smrczs enmdxt

“Rcxehzdbrerczs ercgrevqreqbemqreogbercgregiaxdrzbxnxsrteBvgqyizs ,ecx
kgnxeimosezsrmercxemhhzkxefqbrerczbeig.exz creoxxjb,eozrcerczbeaxd.
vgvxdezseczbecgsi,egsiecxebg.b:

“‘ZeozbcermercxeYmdi,eNdteOzybms,ercgreZeogbegedxi-cxgixiengst’

“‘Oc.ercgr?’eZegbjbt

“‘Oc.,’ebg.becx,e‘cxdx’begsmrcxdeagkgsk.emsercxeYxg qxemhercx
Dxi-cxgixieNxsteZr’beomdrceuqzrxegeyzrryxehmdrqsxermegs.engseocme xrb
zr,egsieZeqsixdbrgsiercgrercxdxegdxenmdxeagkgskzxbercgsercxdxegdxenxs,
bmercgrercxerdqbrxxbegdxegrercxzdeozrb’exsieocgrermeimeozrcercxenmsx.t
Zhen.ecgzdeomqyiemsy.ekcgs xekmymqd,ecxdx’begeszkxeyzrryxekdzlegyy
dxgi.ehmdenxermebrxvezsrmt’

“‘Oc.,eocgrezbezr,ercxs?’eZegbjxite.mqebxx,eNdteCmynxb,eZegnegeaxd.
brg.-gr-cmnxengs,egsiegben.elqbzsxbbekgnxermenxezsbrxgiemhen.ecgazs erm
 mermezr,eZeogbemhrxseoxxjbemsexsieozrcmqrevqrrzs en.ehmmremaxdercx
immd-ngrteZsercgreog.eZeizis’rejsmoenqkcemheocgreogbe mzs emsemqrbzix,
gsieZeogbegyog.be ygiemhegelzremhesxobt

“‘Cgaxe.mqesxaxdecxgdiemhercxeYxg qxemhercxeDxi-cxgixieNxs?’ecxegbjxi
ozrceczbex.xbemvxst

“‘Sxaxdt’

“‘Oc.,eZeomsixdegrercgr,ehmde.mqegdxexyz zlyxe.mqdbxyhehmdemsxemhercx
agkgskzxbt’

“‘Gsieocgregdxercx.eomdrc?’eZegbjxit

“‘Mc,enxdxy.egekmqvyxemhecqsidxiege.xgd,elqrercxeomdjezbebyz cr,egsiezr
sxxiesmrezsrxdhxdxeaxd.enqkceozrcemsx’bemrcxdemkkqvgrzmsbt’

“Oxyy,e.mqekgsexgbzy.erczsjercgrercgrengixenxevdzkjeqven.exgdb,ehmdercx
lqbzsxbbecgbesmrelxxsemaxde mmiehmdebmnxe.xgdb,egsiegsexprdgekmqvyxemh
cqsidxieomqyiecgaxelxxseaxd.ecgsi.t

“‘Rxyyenxegyyeglmqrezr,’ebgzieZt

“‘Oxyy,’ebgziecx,ebcmozs enxercxegiaxdrzbxnxsr,e‘.mqekgsebxxehmd
.mqdbxyhercgrercxeYxg qxecgbegeagkgsk.,egsiercxdxezbercxegiidxbbeocxdx
.mqebcmqyiegvvy.ehmdevgdrzkqygdbteGbehgdegbeZekgsengjxemqr,ercxeYxg qx
ogbehmqsixiel.egseGnxdzkgsenzyyzmsgzdx,eXwxjzgceCmvjzsb,eocmeogbeaxd.
vxkqyzgdezseczbeog.bteCxeogbecznbxyhedxi-cxgixi,egsiecxecgiege dxgr
b.nvgrc.ehmdegyyedxi-cxgixienxs;ebm,eocxsecxeizxi,ezreogbehmqsiercgrecx
cgieyxhreczbexsmdnmqbehmdrqsxezsercxecgsibemherdqbrxxb,eozrc
zsbrdqkrzmsbermegvvy.ercxezsrxdxbrermercxevdmazizs emhexgb.elxdrcberm
nxseocmbxecgzdezbemhercgrekmymqdteHdmnegyyeZecxgdezrezbebvyxsizievg.
gsieaxd.eyzrryxermeimt’

“‘Lqr,’ebgzieZ,e‘rcxdxeomqyielxenzyyzmsbemhedxi-cxgixienxseocmeomqyi
gvvy.t’

“‘Smrebmengs.egbe.mqenz crerczsj,’ecxegsboxdxite‘.mqebxxezrezbedxgyy.
kmshzsxiermeYmsimsxdb,egsierme dmosenxsteRczbeGnxdzkgsecgiebrgdrxiehdmn
Ymsimseocxsecxeogbe.mqs ,egsiecxeogsrxiermeimercxemyiermosege mmierqdst
Rcxs,eg gzs,eZecgaxecxgdiezrezbesmeqbxe.mqdegvvy.zs ezhe.mqdecgzdezb
yz credxi,emdeigdjedxi,emdegs.rczs elqredxgyeldz cr,elygwzs ,ehzxd.
dxiteSmo,ezhe.mqekgdxiermegvvy.,eNdteOzybms,e.mqeomqyiefqbreogyjezs;
lqrevxdcgvbezreomqyiecgdiy.elxeomdrce.mqdeoczyxermevqre.mqdbxyhemqremh
rcxeog.ehmdercxebgjxemhegehxoecqsidxievmqsibt’

“Smo,ezrezbegehgkr,e xsryxnxs,egbe.mqeng.ebxxehmde.mqdbxyaxb,ercgren.
cgzdezbemhegeaxd.ehqyyegsiedzkcerzsr,ebmercgrezrebxxnxiermenxercgrezh
rcxdxeogbermelxegs.ekmnvxrzrzmsezsercxengrrxdeZebrmmiegbe mmiegekcgskx
gbegs.engsercgreZecgiexaxdenxrteAzskxsreBvgqyizs ebxxnxiermejsmoebm
nqkceglmqrezrercgreZercmq crecxenz crevdmaxeqbxhqy,ebmeZefqbremdixdxi
cznermevqreqvercxebcqrrxdbehmdercxeig.egsiermekmnxedz cregog.eozrcenxt
Cxeogbeaxd.eozyyzs ermecgaxegecmyzig.,ebmeoxebcqrercxelqbzsxbbeqvegsi
brgdrxiemhhehmdercxegiidxbbercgreogbe zaxseqbezsercxegiaxdrzbxnxsrt

“Zesxaxdecmvxermebxxebqkcegebz cregbercgreg gzs,eNdteCmynxbteHdmn
smdrc,ebmqrc,exgbr,egsieoxbrexaxd.engseocmecgiegebcgixemhedxiezseczb
cgzdecgierdgnvxiezsrmercxekzr.ermegsboxdercxegiaxdrzbxnxsrteHyxxr
Brdxxreogbekcmjxieozrcedxi-cxgixiehmyj,egsieVmvx’beKmqdreymmjxieyzjxeg
kmbrxd’bemdgs xelgddmoteZebcmqyiesmrecgaxercmq crercxdxeoxdxebmengs.ezs
rcxeocmyxekmqsrd.egbeoxdxeldmq crerm xrcxdel.ercgrebzs yx
giaxdrzbxnxsrteXaxd.ebcgixemhekmymqdercx.eoxdx—brdgo,eyxnms,emdgs x,
ldzkj,eZdzbc-bxrrxd,eyzaxd,ekyg.;elqr,egbeBvgqyizs ebgzi,ercxdxeoxdx
smrengs.eocmecgiercxedxgyeazaziehygnx-kmymqdxierzsrteOcxseZebgoecmo
ngs.eoxdxeogzrzs ,eZeomqyiecgaxe zaxsezreqvezseixbvgzd;elqreBvgqyizs 
omqyiesmrecxgdemhezrteCmoecxeiziezreZekmqyiesmrezng zsx,elqrecxevqbcxi
gsievqyyxiegsielqrrxieqsrzyecxe mrenxercdmq cercxekdmoi,egsiedz creqv
rmercxebrxvbeoczkceyxiermercxemhhzkxteRcxdxeogbegeimqlyxebrdxgneqvms
rcxebrgzd,ebmnxe mzs eqvezsecmvx,egsiebmnxekmnzs elgkjeixfxkrxi;elqreox
oxi xiezsegbeoxyyegbeoxekmqyiegsiebmmsehmqsiemqdbxyaxbezsercxemhhzkxt”

“.mqdexpvxdzxskxecgbelxxsegenmbrexsrxdrgzszs emsx,”edxngdjxieCmynxbegb
czbekyzxsrevgqbxiegsiedxhdxbcxieczbenxnmd.eozrcegecq xevzskcemhebsqhht
“Vdg.ekmsrzsqxe.mqdeaxd.ezsrxdxbrzs ebrgrxnxsrt”

“Rcxdxeogbesmrczs ezsercxemhhzkxelqregekmqvyxemheommixsekcgzdbegsieg
ixgyerglyx,elxczsieoczkcebgregebngyyengseozrcegecxgiercgreogbexaxs
dxiixdercgsenzsxteCxebgziegehxoeomdibermexgkcekgsizigrxegbecxekgnxeqv,
gsiercxsecxegyog.bengsg xiermehzsiebmnxehgqyrezsercxneoczkceomqyi
izbuqgyzh.ercxnte xrrzs egeagkgsk.eiziesmrebxxnermelxebqkcegeaxd.exgb.
ngrrxd,eghrxdegyyteCmoxaxd,eocxsemqderqdsekgnxercxeyzrryxengseogbenqkc
nmdxehgamqdglyxermenxercgsermegs.emhercxemrcxdb,egsiecxekymbxiercxeimmd
gbeoxexsrxdxi,ebmercgrecxenz crecgaxegevdzagrxeomdieozrceqbt

“‘RczbezbeNdteFglxweOzybms,’ebgzien.egbbzbrgsr,e‘gsiecxezbeozyyzs erm
hzyyegeagkgsk.ezsercxeYxg qxt’

“‘Gsiecxezbeginzdgly.ebqzrxiehmdezr,’ercxemrcxdegsboxdxite‘Cxecgbexaxd.
dxuqzdxnxsrteZekgssmredxkgyyeocxseZecgaxebxxsegs.rczs ebmehzsxt’eCx
rmmjegebrxvelgkjogdi,ekmkjxieczbecxgiemsemsxebzix,egsie gwxiegren.ecgzd
qsrzyeZehxyreuqzrxelgbchqyteRcxsebqiixsy.ecxevyqs xiehmdogdi,eodqs en.
cgsi,egsiekms dgrqygrxienxeogdny.emsen.ebqkkxbbt

“‘Zreomqyielxezsfqbrzkxermecxbzrgrx,’ebgziecxte‘.mqeozyy,ecmoxaxd,eZegn
bqdx,expkqbxenxehmdergjzs egsemlazmqbevdxkgqrzmst’eOzrcercgrecxebxzwxi
n.ecgzdezselmrceczbecgsib,egsierq  xieqsrzyeZe.xyyxieozrcercxevgzst
‘Rcxdxezbeogrxdezse.mqdex.xb,’ebgziecxegbecxedxyxgbxienxte‘Zevxdkxzax
rcgregyyezbegbezrebcmqyielxteLqreoxecgaxermelxekgdxhqy,ehmdeoxecgax
rozkxelxxseixkxzaxiel.eoz begsiemskxel.evgzsrteZekmqyierxyye.mqergyxb
mhekmllyxd’beogpeoczkceomqyieizb qbre.mqeozrcecqngsesgrqdxt’eCxebrxvvxi
maxdermercxeozsimoegsiebcmqrxiercdmq cezregrercxermvemheczbeamzkxercgr
rcxeagkgsk.eogbehzyyxiteGe dmgsemheizbgvvmzsrnxsrekgnxeqvehdmnelxymo,
gsiercxehmyjegyyerdmmvxiegog.ezseizhhxdxsreizdxkrzmsbeqsrzyercxdxeogb
smregedxi-cxgiermelxebxxsexpkxvren.emosegsiercgremhercxengsg xdt

“‘N.esgnx,’ebgziecx,e‘zbeNdteIqskgseDmbb,egsieZegnen.bxyhemsxemhercx
vxsbzmsxdbeqvmsercxehqsieyxhrel.emqdesmlyxelxsxhgkrmdteGdxe.mqeg
ngddzxiengs,eNdteOzybms?eCgaxe.mqegehgnzy.?’

“ZegsboxdxiercgreZecgiesmrt

“Czbehgkxehxyyeznnxizgrxy.t

“‘Ixgdenx!’ecxebgzie dgaxy.,e‘rcgrezbeaxd.ebxdzmqbezsixxi!eZegnebmdd.
rmecxgde.mqebg.ercgrteRcxehqsieogb,emhekmqdbx,ehmdercxevdmvg grzmsegsi
bvdxgiemhercxedxi-cxgibegbeoxyyegbehmdercxzdengzsrxsgskxteZrezb
xpkxxizs y.eqshmdrqsgrxercgre.mqebcmqyielxegelgkcxymdt’

“N.ehgkxeyxs rcxsxiegrerczb,eNdteCmynxb,ehmdeZercmq crercgreZeogbesmr
rmecgaxercxeagkgsk.eghrxdegyy;elqreghrxderczsjzs ezremaxdehmdegehxo
nzsqrxbecxebgziercgrezreomqyielxegyyedz crt

“‘Zsercxekgbxemhegsmrcxd,’ebgziecx,e‘rcxemlfxkrzmsenz crelxehgrgy,elqr
oxenqbrebrdxrkcegevmzsrezsehgamqdemhegengseozrcebqkcegecxgiemhecgzdegb
.mqdbteOcxsebcgyye.mqelxeglyxermexsrxdeqvmse.mqdesxoeiqrzxb?’

“‘Oxyy,ezrezbegeyzrryxegojogdi,ehmdeZecgaxegelqbzsxbbegydxgi.,’ebgzieZt

“‘Mc,esxaxdenzsieglmqrercgr,eNdteOzybms!’ebgzieAzskxsreBvgqyizs te‘Z
bcmqyielxeglyxermeymmjeghrxdercgrehmde.mqt’

“‘Ocgreomqyielxercxecmqdb?’eZegbjxit

“‘Rxsermeromt’

“Smoegevgosldmjxd’belqbzsxbbezbenmbry.eimsxemhegsexaxszs ,eNdteCmynxb,
xbvxkzgyy.eRcqdbig.egsieHdzig.exaxszs ,eoczkcezbefqbrelxhmdxevg.-ig.;
bmezreomqyiebqzrenxeaxd.eoxyyermexgdsegeyzrryxezsercxenmdszs bt
Lxbzixb,eZejsxoercgren.egbbzbrgsreogbege mmiengs,egsiercgrecxeomqyiebxx
rmegs.rczs ercgrerqdsxieqvt

“‘Rcgreomqyiebqzrenxeaxd.eoxyy,’ebgzieZte‘Gsiercxevg.?’

“‘Zbe£e4egeoxxjt’

“‘Gsiercxeomdj?’

“‘Zbevqdxy.esmnzsgyt’

“‘Ocgreime.mqekgyyevqdxy.esmnzsgy?’

“‘Oxyy,e.mqecgaxermelxezsercxemhhzkx,emdegreyxgbrezsercxelqzyizs ,ercx
ocmyxerznxteZhe.mqeyxgax,e.mqehmdhxzre.mqdeocmyxevmbzrzmsehmdxaxdteRcx
ozyyezbeaxd.ekyxgdeqvmsercgrevmzsrte.mqeims’rekmnvy.eozrcercx
kmsizrzmsbezhe.mqelqi xehdmnercxemhhzkxeiqdzs ercgrerznxt’

“‘Zr’bemsy.ehmqdecmqdbegeig.,egsieZebcmqyiesmrerczsjemheyxgazs ,’ebgzi
Zt

“‘Smexpkqbxeozyyegagzy,’ebgzieNdteIqskgseDmbb;e‘sxzrcxdebzkjsxbbesmd
lqbzsxbbesmdegs.rczs exybxteRcxdxe.mqenqbrebrg.,emde.mqeymbxe.mqd
lzyyxrt’

“‘Gsiercxeomdj?’

“‘Zbermekmv.emqrercxe_Xsk.kymvæizgeLdzrgsszkg_teRcxdxezbercxehzdbr
amyqnxemhezrezsercgrevdxbbte.mqenqbrehzsie.mqdemosezsj,evxsb,egsi
lymrrzs -vgvxd,elqreoxevdmazixerczberglyxegsiekcgzdteOzyye.mqelxedxgi.
rm-nmddmo?’

“‘Kxdrgzsy.,’eZegsboxdxit

“‘Rcxs,e mmi-l.x,eNdteFglxweOzybms,egsieyxrenxekms dgrqygrxe.mqemskx
nmdxemsercxeznvmdrgsrevmbzrzmseoczkce.mqecgaxelxxsehmdrqsgrxexsmq cerm
 gzst’eCxelmoxienxemqremhercxedmmnegsieZeoxsrecmnxeozrcen.egbbzbrgsr,
cgdiy.ejsmozs eocgrermebg.emdeim,eZeogbebmevyxgbxiegren.emose mmi
hmdrqsxt

“Oxyy,eZercmq cremaxdercxengrrxdegyyeig.,egsiel.exaxszs eZeogbezseymo
bvzdzrbeg gzs;ehmdeZecgieuqzrxevxdbqgixien.bxyhercgrercxeocmyxeghhgzd
nqbrelxebmnxe dxgrecmgpemdehdgqi,ercmq ceocgrezrbemlfxkrenz crelxeZ
kmqyiesmrezng zsxteZrebxxnxiegyrm xrcxdevgbrelxyzxhercgregs.msxekmqyi
ngjxebqkcegeozyy,emdercgrercx.eomqyievg.ebqkcegebqnehmdeimzs egs.rczs 
bmebznvyxegbekmv.zs emqrercxe_Xsk.kymvæizgeLdzrgsszkg_teAzskxsr
Bvgqyizs eizieocgrecxekmqyiermekcxxdenxeqv,elqrel.elxirznxeZecgi
dxgbmsxien.bxyhemqremhercxeocmyxerczs teCmoxaxd,ezsercxenmdszs eZ
ixrxdnzsxiermecgaxegeymmjegrezregs.cmo,ebmeZelmq cregevxss.elmrryxemh
zsj,egsieozrcegeuqzyy-vxs,egsiebxaxsebcxxrbemhehmmybkgvevgvxd,eZ
brgdrxiemhhehmdeVmvx’beKmqdrt

“Oxyy,ermen.ebqdvdzbxegsieixyz cr,exaxd.rczs eogbegbedz cregbevmbbzlyxt
Rcxerglyxeogbebxremqredxgi.ehmdenx,egsieNdteIqskgseDmbbeogbercxdxerm
bxxercgreZe mrehgzdy.ermeomdjteCxebrgdrxienxemhheqvmsercxeyxrrxdeG,egsi
rcxsecxeyxhrenx;elqrecxeomqyieidmvezsehdmnerznxermerznxermebxxercgregyy
ogbedz creozrcenxteGreromem’kymkjecxelgixenxe mmi-ig.,ekmnvyznxsrxienx
qvmsercxegnmqsrercgreZecgieodzrrxs,egsieymkjxiercxeimmdemhercxemhhzkx
ghrxdenxt

“Rczbeoxsremseig.eghrxdeig.,eNdteCmynxb,egsiemseBgrqdig.ercxengsg xd
kgnxezsegsievygsjxieimosehmqde myixsebmaxdxz sbehmden.eoxxj’beomdjteZr
ogbercxebgnxesxpreoxxj,egsiercxebgnxercxeoxxjeghrxdteXaxd.enmdszs eZ
ogbercxdxegrerxs,egsiexaxd.eghrxdsmmseZeyxhregreromteL.eix dxxbeNdt
IqskgseDmbbermmjermekmnzs ezsemsy.emskxemhegenmdszs ,egsiercxs,eghrxdeg
rznx,ecxeiziesmrekmnxezsegregyyteBrzyy,emhekmqdbx,eZesxaxdeigdxierm
yxgaxercxedmmnehmdegsezsbrgsr,ehmdeZeogbesmrebqdxeocxsecxenz crekmnx,
gsiercxelzyyxreogbebqkcege mmiemsx,egsiebqzrxienxebmeoxyy,ercgreZeomqyi
smredzbjercxeymbbemhezrt

“Xz creoxxjbevgbbxiegog.eyzjxerczb,egsieZecgieodzrrxseglmqreGllmrbegsi
Gdkcxd.egsieGdnmqdegsieGdkczrxkrqdxegsieGrrzkg,egsiecmvxieozrc
izyz xskxercgreZenz cre xremsermercxeL’belxhmdxeaxd.eyms teZrekmbrenx
bmnxrczs ezsehmmybkgv,egsieZecgievdxrr.esxgdy.ehzyyxiegebcxyheozrcen.
odzrzs bteGsiercxsebqiixsy.ercxeocmyxelqbzsxbbekgnxermegsexsit”

“Rmegsexsi?”

“.xb,ebzdteGsiesmeygrxdercgserczbenmdszs teZeoxsrermen.eomdjegbeqbqgy
grerxsem’kymkj,elqrercxeimmdeogbebcqregsieymkjxi,eozrcegeyzrryxebuqgdx
mhekgdilmgdiecgnnxdxiemsermercxenziiyxemhercxevgsxyeozrcegergkjteCxdx
zrezb,egsie.mqekgsedxgiehmde.mqdbxyht”

Cxecxyieqvegevzxkxemheoczrxekgdilmgdieglmqrercxebzwxemhegebcxxremh
smrx-vgvxdteZredxgiezserczbehgbczms:

“RCXeDXI-CXGIXIeYXG QXeZBeIZBBMYAXIteMkrmlxde9,e1890t”


BcxdymkjeCmynxbegsieZebqdax.xierczbekqdregssmqskxnxsregsiercxedqxhqy
hgkxelxczsiezr,eqsrzyercxekmnzkgyebzixemhercxeghhgzdebmekmnvyxrxy.
maxdrmvvxiexaxd.emrcxdekmsbzixdgrzmsercgreoxelmrcelqdbremqrezsrmegedmgd
mheygq crxdt

“Zekgssmrebxxercgrercxdxezbegs.rczs eaxd.ehqss.,”ekdzxiemqdekyzxsr,
hyqbczs eqvermercxedmmrbemheczbehygnzs ecxgite“Zhe.mqekgseimesmrczs 
lxrrxdercgseygq cegrenx,eZekgse mexybxocxdxt”

“Sm,esm,”ekdzxieCmynxb,ebcmazs ecznelgkjezsrmercxekcgzdehdmneoczkcecx
cgiecgyhedzbxste“Zedxgyy.eomqyis’renzbbe.mqdekgbxehmdercxeomdyiteZrezb
nmbredxhdxbczs y.eqsqbqgyteLqrercxdxezb,ezhe.mqeozyyexpkqbxen.ebg.zs 
bm,ebmnxrczs efqbregeyzrryxehqss.eglmqrezrteVdg.eocgrebrxvbeizie.mq
rgjxeocxse.mqehmqsiercxekgdieqvmsercxeimmd?”

“Zeogbebrg  xdxi,ebzdteZeiziesmrejsmoeocgrermeimteRcxseZekgyyxiegrercx
mhhzkxbedmqsi,elqresmsxemhercxnebxxnxiermejsmoegs.rczs eglmqrezrt
Hzsgyy.,eZeoxsrermercxeygsiymdi,eocmezbegsegkkmqsrgsreyzazs emsercx
 dmqsiehymmd,egsieZegbjxiecznezhecxekmqyierxyyenxeocgrecgielxkmnxemh
rcxeDxi-cxgixieYxg qxteCxebgziercgrecxecgiesxaxdecxgdiemhegs.ebqkc
lmi.teRcxseZegbjxieczneocmeNdteIqskgseDmbbeogbteCxegsboxdxiercgrercx
sgnxeogbesxoermecznt

“‘Oxyy,’ebgzieZ,e‘rcxe xsryxngsegreSmte4t’

“‘Ocgr,ercxedxi-cxgixiengs?’

“‘.xbt’

“‘Mc,’ebgziecx,e‘czbesgnxeogbeOzyyzgneNmddzbteCxeogbegebmyzkzrmdegsi
ogbeqbzs en.edmmnegbegerxnvmdgd.ekmsaxszxskxeqsrzyeczbesxoevdxnzbxb
oxdxedxgi.teCxenmaxiemqre.xbrxdig.t’

“‘OcxdxekmqyieZehzsieczn?’

“‘Mc,egreczbesxoemhhzkxbteCxeizierxyyenxercxegiidxbbte.xb,e17eJzs 
XiogdieBrdxxr,esxgdeBrteVgqy’bt’

“Zebrgdrxiemhh,eNdteCmynxb,elqreocxseZe mrermercgregiidxbbezreogbeg
ngsqhgkrmd.emhegdrzhzkzgyejsxx-kgvb,egsiesmemsxezsezrecgiexaxdecxgdiemh
xzrcxdeNdteOzyyzgneNmddzbemdeNdteIqskgseDmbbt”

“Gsieocgreizie.mqeimercxs?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“ZeoxsrecmnxermeBgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdx,egsieZermmjercxegiazkxemhen.
gbbzbrgsrteLqrecxekmqyiesmrecxyvenxezsegs.eog.teCxekmqyiemsy.ebg.ercgr
zheZeogzrxieZebcmqyiecxgdel.evmbrteLqrercgreogbesmreuqzrxe mmiexsmq c,
NdteCmynxbteZeiziesmreozbcermeymbxebqkcegevygkxeozrcmqregebrdq  yx,ebm,
gbeZecgiecxgdiercgre.mqeoxdxe mmiexsmq cerme zaxegiazkxermevmmdehmyj
ocmeoxdxezsesxxiemhezr,eZekgnxedz cregog.erme.mqt”

“Gsie.mqeizieaxd.eozbxy.,”ebgzieCmynxbte“.mqdekgbxezbegsexpkxxizs y.
dxngdjglyxemsx,egsieZebcgyyelxecgvv.ermeymmjezsrmezrteHdmneocgre.mq
cgaxermyienxeZerczsjercgrezrezbevmbbzlyxercgre dgaxdezbbqxbecgs ehdmn
zrercgsenz cregrehzdbrebz cregvvxgdt”

“ dgaxexsmq c!”ebgzieNdteFglxweOzybmste“Oc.,eZecgaxeymbrehmqdevmqsieg
oxxjt”

“Gbehgdegbe.mqegdxevxdbmsgyy.ekmskxdsxi,”edxngdjxieCmynxb,e“Zeimesmr
bxxercgre.mqecgaxegs.e dzxagskxeg gzsbrerczbexprdgmdizsgd.eyxg qxteMs
rcxekmsrdgd.,e.mqegdx,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,edzkcxdel.ebmnxe£e30,ermebg.
smrczs emhercxenzsqrxejsmoyxi xeoczkce.mqecgaxe gzsxiemsexaxd.ebqlfxkr
oczkcekmnxbeqsixdercxeyxrrxdeGte.mqecgaxeymbresmrczs el.ercxnt”

“Sm,ebzdteLqreZeogsrermehzsiemqreglmqrercxn,egsieocmercx.egdx,egsieocgr
rcxzdemlfxkreogbezsevyg.zs erczbevdgsj—zhezreogbegevdgsj—qvmsenxteZr
ogbegevdxrr.expvxsbzaxefmjxehmdercxn,ehmdezrekmbrercxneromegsierczdr.
vmqsibt”

“Oxebcgyyexsixgamqdermekyxgdeqvercxbxevmzsrbehmde.mqteGsi,ehzdbr,emsx
mderomeuqxbrzmsb,eNdteOzybmsteRczbegbbzbrgsremhe.mqdbeocmehzdbrekgyyxi
.mqdegrrxsrzmsermercxegiaxdrzbxnxsr—cmoeyms ecgiecxelxxseozrce.mq?”

“Glmqregenmsrcercxst”

“Cmoeiziecxekmnx?”

“Zsegsboxdermegsegiaxdrzbxnxsrt”

“Ogbecxercxemsy.egvvyzkgsr?”

“Sm,eZecgiegeimwxst”

“Oc.eizie.mqevzkjeczn?”

“Lxkgqbxecxeogbecgsi.egsieomqyiekmnxekcxgvt”

“Grecgyheog xb,ezsehgkrt”

“.xbt”

“Ocgrezbecxeyzjx,erczbeAzskxsreBvgqyizs ?”

“Bngyy,ebrmqr-lqzyr,eaxd.euqzkjezseczbeog.b,esmecgzdemseczbehgkx,
rcmq cecx’besmrebcmdremherczdr.teCgbegeoczrxebvygbcemhegkzieqvmseczb
hmdxcxgit”

Cmynxbebgreqvezseczbekcgzdezsekmsbzixdglyxexpkzrxnxsrte“Zercmq cregb
nqkc,”ebgziecxte“Cgaxe.mqexaxdemlbxdaxiercgreczbexgdbegdxevzxdkxiehmd
xgddzs b?”

“.xb,ebzdteCxermyienxercgrege zvb.ecgieimsxezrehmdeczneocxsecxeogbeg
ygit”

“Cqn!”ebgzieCmynxb,ebzsjzs elgkjezseixxvercmq crte“Cxezbebrzyyeozrc
.mq?”

“Mc,e.xb,ebzd;eZecgaxemsy.efqbreyxhrecznt”

“Gsiecgbe.mqdelqbzsxbbelxxsegrrxsixiermezse.mqdeglbxskx?”

“Smrczs ermekmnvygzsemh,ebzdteRcxdx’besxaxdeaxd.enqkcermeimemheg
nmdszs t”

“Rcgreozyyeim,eNdteOzybmsteZebcgyyelxecgvv.erme zaxe.mqegsemvzszmseqvms
rcxebqlfxkrezsercxekmqdbxemhegeig.emderomteRm-ig.ezbeBgrqdig.,egsieZ
cmvxercgrel.eNmsig.eoxeng.ekmnxermegekmskyqbzmst”

“Oxyy,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxbeocxsemqdeazbzrmdecgieyxhreqb,e“ocgreime.mq
ngjxemhezregyy?”

“Zengjxesmrczs emhezr,”eZegsboxdxiehdgsjy.te“Zrezbegenmbren.brxdzmqb
lqbzsxbbt”

“Gbegedqyx,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“rcxenmdxelzwgddxegerczs ezbercxeyxbb
n.brxdzmqbezrevdmaxbermelxteZrezbe.mqdekmnnmsvygkx,ehxgrqdxyxbbekdznxb
oczkcegdxedxgyy.evqwwyzs ,efqbregbegekmnnmsvygkxehgkxezbercxenmbr
izhhzkqyrermezixsrzh.teLqreZenqbrelxevdmnvremaxderczbengrrxdt”

“Ocgregdxe.mqe mzs ermeim,ercxs?”eZegbjxit

“Rmebnmjx,”ecxegsboxdxite“Zrezbeuqzrxegercdxxevzvxevdmlyxn,egsieZelx 
rcgre.mqeoms’rebvxgjermenxehmdehzhr.enzsqrxbt”eCxekqdyxiecznbxyheqvezs
czbekcgzd,eozrceczberczsejsxxbeidgoseqvermeczbecgoj-yzjxesmbx,egsi
rcxdxecxebgreozrceczbex.xbekymbxiegsieczbelygkjekyg.evzvxercdqbrzs emqr
yzjxercxelzyyemhebmnxebrdgs xelzditeZecgiekmnxermercxekmskyqbzmsercgr
cxecgieidmvvxiegbyxxv,egsiezsixxieogbesmiizs en.bxyh,eocxsecxebqiixsy.
bvdgs emqremheczbekcgzdeozrcercxe xbrqdxemhegengseocmecgbengixeqveczb
nzsiegsievqreczbevzvxeimoseqvmsercxengsrxyvzxkxt

“Bgdgbgrxevyg.begrercxeBrteFgnxb’beCgyyerczbeghrxdsmms,”ecxedxngdjxit
“Ocgreime.mqerczsj,eOgrbms?eKmqyie.mqdevgrzxsrbebvgdxe.mqehmdegehxo
cmqdb?”

“Zecgaxesmrczs ermeimerm-ig.teN.evdgkrzkxezbesxaxdeaxd.eglbmdlzs t”

“Rcxsevqremse.mqdecgregsiekmnxteZegne mzs ercdmq cercxeKzr.ehzdbr,egsi
oxekgsecgaxebmnxeyqskcemsercxeog.teZemlbxdaxercgrercxdxezbege mmieixgy
mhe xdngsenqbzkemsercxevdm dgnnx,eoczkcezbedgrcxdenmdxermen.ergbrxercgs
ZrgyzgsemdeHdxskcteZrezbezsrdmbvxkrzax,egsieZeogsrermezsrdmbvxkrteKmnx
gyms !”

Oxerdgaxyyxiel.ercxeQsixd dmqsiegbehgdegbeGyixdb grx;egsiegebcmdreogyj
rmmjeqbermeBgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdx,ercxebkxsxemhercxebzs qygdebrmd.eoczkceox
cgieyzbrxsxiermezsercxenmdszs teZreogbegevmj.,eyzrryx,ebcgll.- xsrxxy
vygkx,eocxdxehmqdeyzsxbemheizs .erom-brmdzxieldzkjecmqbxbeymmjxiemqr
zsrmegebngyyedgzyxi-zsexskymbqdx,eocxdxegeygosemheoxxi.e dgbbegsiegehxo
kyqnvbemhehgixieygqdxyelqbcxbengixegecgdiehz creg gzsbregebnmjx-ygixs
gsieqskms xszgyegrnmbvcxdxteRcdxxe zyrelgyybegsiegeldmoselmgdieozrc
“FGLXWeOZYBMS”ezseoczrxeyxrrxdb,eqvmsegekmdsxdecmqbx,egssmqskxiercx
vygkxeocxdxemqdedxi-cxgixiekyzxsrekgddzxiemseczbelqbzsxbbteBcxdymkj
Cmynxbebrmvvxiezsehdmsremhezreozrceczbecxgiemsemsxebzixegsieymmjxiezr
gyyemaxd,eozrceczbex.xbebczszs eldz cry.elxroxxsevqkjxdxieyzibteRcxsecx
ogyjxiebymoy.eqvercxebrdxxr,egsiercxseimoseg gzsermercxekmdsxd,ebrzyy
ymmjzs ejxxsy.egrercxecmqbxbteHzsgyy.ecxedxrqdsxiermercxevgosldmjxd’b,
gsi,ecgazs ercqnvxieaz mdmqby.eqvmsercxevgaxnxsreozrceczbebrzkjeromemd
rcdxxerznxb,ecxeoxsreqvermercxeimmdegsiejsmkjxiteZreogbezsbrgsry.
mvxsxiel.egeldz cr-ymmjzs ,ekyxgs-bcgaxse.mqs ehxyymo,eocmegbjxiecznerm
brxvezst

“Rcgsje.mq,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“Zemsy.eozbcxiermegbje.mqecmoe.mqeomqyie m
hdmnecxdxermercxeBrdgsit”

“Rczdiedz cr,ehmqdrceyxhr,”egsboxdxiercxegbbzbrgsrevdmnvry.,ekymbzs 
rcxeimmdt

“Bngdrehxyymo,ercgr,”emlbxdaxieCmynxbegbeoxeogyjxiegog.te“Cxezb,ezsen.
fqi nxsr,ercxehmqdrcebngdrxbrengsezseYmsims,egsiehmdeigdzs eZegnesmr
bqdxercgrecxecgbesmregekygznermelxerczditeZecgaxejsmosebmnxrczs emheczn
lxhmdxt”

“Xazixsry.,”ebgzieZ,e“NdteOzybms’begbbzbrgsrekmqsrbehmdege mmieixgyezs
rczben.brxd.emhercxeDxi-cxgixieYxg qxteZegnebqdxercgre.mqezsuqzdxie.mqd
og.enxdxy.ezsemdixdercgre.mqenz crebxxecznt”

“Smrecznt”

“Ocgrercxs?”

“Rcxejsxxbemheczberdmqbxdbt”

“Gsieocgreizie.mqebxx?”

“OcgreZexpvxkrxiermebxxt”

“Oc.eizie.mqelxgrercxevgaxnxsr?”

“N.eixgdeimkrmd,erczbezbegerznxehmdemlbxdagrzms,esmrehmdergyjteOxegdx
bvzxbezsegsexsxn.’bekmqsrd.teOxejsmoebmnxrczs emheBgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdxt
Yxreqbesmoexpvymdxercxevgdrbeoczkceyzxelxczsiezrt”

Rcxedmgiezseoczkceoxehmqsiemqdbxyaxbegbeoxerqdsxiedmqsiercxekmdsxdehdmn
rcxedxrzdxieBgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdxevdxbxsrxiegbe dxgregekmsrdgbrermezregb
rcxehdmsremhegevzkrqdxeimxbermercxelgkjteZreogbemsxemhercxengzs
gdrxdzxbeoczkcekmsax.xiercxerdghhzkemhercxeKzr.ermercxesmdrcegsieoxbrt
Rcxedmgiog.eogbelymkjxieozrcercxeznnxsbxebrdxgnemhekmnnxdkxehymozs ezs
geimqlyxerzixezsogdiegsiemqrogdi,eoczyxercxehmmrvgrcbeoxdxelygkjeozrc
rcxecqdd.zs ebogdnemhevxixbrdzgsbteZreogbeizhhzkqyrermedxgyzbxegbeox
ymmjxiegrercxeyzsxemhehzsxebcmvbegsiebrgrxy.elqbzsxbbevdxnzbxbercgr
rcx.edxgyy.eglqrrxiemsercxemrcxdebzixeqvmsercxehgixiegsiebrg sgsr
buqgdxeoczkceoxecgiefqbreuqzrrxit

“Yxrenxebxx,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebrgsizs egrercxekmdsxdegsie ygskzs egyms 
rcxeyzsx,e“Zebcmqyieyzjxefqbrermedxnxnlxdercxemdixdemhercxecmqbxbecxdxt
Zrezbegecmll.emhenzsxermecgaxegsexpgkrejsmoyxi xemheYmsimsteRcxdxezb
Nmdrznxd’b,ercxermlgkkmszbr,ercxeyzrryxesxobvgvxdebcmv,ercxeKmlqd 
ldgskcemhercxeKzr.egsieBqlqdlgseLgsj,ercxeAx xrgdzgseDxbrgqdgsr,egsi
NkHgdygsx’bekgddzg x-lqzyizs eixvmrteRcgrekgddzxbeqbedz cremsermercx
mrcxdelymkjteGsiesmo,eImkrmd,eox’axeimsxemqdeomdj,ebmezr’berznxeoxecgi
bmnxevyg.teGebgsiozkcegsiegekqvemhekmhhxx,egsiercxsemhhermeazmyzs-ygsi,
ocxdxegyyezbeboxxrsxbbegsieixyzkgk.egsiecgdnms.,egsiercxdxegdxesm
dxi-cxgixiekyzxsrbermeaxpeqbeozrcercxzdekmsqsidqnbt”

N.ehdzxsieogbegsexsrcqbzgbrzkenqbzkzgs,elxzs ecznbxyhesmremsy.egeaxd.
kgvglyxevxdhmdnxdelqregekmnvmbxdemhesmemdizsgd.enxdzrteGyyercx
ghrxdsmmsecxebgrezsercxebrgyybeodgvvxiezsercxenmbrevxdhxkrecgvvzsxbb,
 xsry.eogazs eczbeyms ,erczsehzs xdbezserznxermercxenqbzk,eoczyxeczb
 xsry.ebnzyzs ehgkxegsieczbeygs qzi,eidxgn.ex.xbeoxdxegbeqsyzjxercmbx
mheCmynxbercxebyxqrc-cmqsi,eCmynxbercxedxyxsryxbb,ejxxs-ozrrxi,
dxgi.-cgsixiekdznzsgyeg xsr,egbezreogbevmbbzlyxermekmskxzaxteZseczb
bzs qygdekcgdgkrxdercxeiqgyesgrqdxegyrxdsgrxy.egbbxdrxiezrbxyh,egsieczb
xprdxnxexpgkrsxbbegsiegbrqrxsxbbedxvdxbxsrxi,egbeZecgaxemhrxsercmq cr,
rcxedxgkrzmseg gzsbrercxevmxrzkegsiekmsrxnvygrzaxenmmieoczkc
mkkgbzmsgyy.evdximnzsgrxiezsecznteRcxebozs emheczbesgrqdxermmjecznehdmn
xprdxnxeygs qmdermeixamqdzs exsxd .;egsi,egbeZejsxoeoxyy,ecxeogbesxaxd
bmerdqy.ehmdnziglyxegbeocxs,ehmdeig.bemsexsi,ecxecgielxxseymqs zs ezs
czbegdnkcgzdegnzieczbeznvdmazbgrzmsbegsieczbelygkj-yxrrxdexizrzmsbt
Rcxsezreogbercgrercxeyqbremhercxekcgbxeomqyiebqiixsy.ekmnxeqvmseczn,
gsiercgreczbeldzyyzgsredxgbmszs evmoxdeomqyiedzbxermercxeyxaxyemh
zsrqzrzms,eqsrzyercmbxeocmeoxdxeqsgkuqgzsrxieozrceczbenxrcmibeomqyi
ymmjegbjgskxegrecznegbemsegengseocmbxejsmoyxi xeogbesmrercgremhemrcxd
nmdrgybteOcxseZebgoecznercgreghrxdsmmsebmexsodgvvxiezsercxenqbzkegreBrt
Fgnxb’beCgyyeZehxyrercgregsexazyerznxenz crelxekmnzs eqvmsercmbxeocmn
cxecgiebxrecznbxyhermecqsreimost

“.mqeogsrerme mecmnx,esmeimqlr,eImkrmd,”ecxedxngdjxiegbeoxexnxd xit

“.xb,ezreomqyielxegbeoxyyt”

“GsieZecgaxebmnxelqbzsxbbermeimeoczkceozyyergjxebmnxecmqdbteRczb
lqbzsxbbegreKmlqd eBuqgdxezbebxdzmqbt”

“Oc.ebxdzmqb?”

“GekmsbzixdglyxekdznxezbezsekmsrxnvygrzmsteZecgaxexaxd.edxgbmserm
lxyzxaxercgreoxebcgyyelxezserznxermebrmvezrteLqrerm-ig.elxzs eBgrqdig.
dgrcxdekmnvyzkgrxbengrrxdbteZebcgyyeogsre.mqdecxyverm-sz crt”

“Greocgrerznx?”

“Rxseozyyelxexgdy.exsmq ct”

“ZebcgyyelxegreLgjxdeBrdxxregrerxst”

“Axd.eoxyyteGsi,eZebg.,eImkrmd,ercxdxeng.elxebmnxeyzrryxeigs xd,ebm
jzsiy.evqre.mqdegdn.edxamyaxdezse.mqdevmkjxrt”eCxeogaxieczbecgsi,
rqdsxiemseczbecxxy,egsieizbgvvxgdxiezsegsezsbrgsregnms ercxekdmoit

ZerdqbrercgreZegnesmrenmdxeixsbxercgsen.esxz clmqdb,elqreZeogbegyog.b
mvvdxbbxieozrcegebxsbxemhen.emosebrqvzizr.ezsen.eixgyzs beozrceBcxdymkj
CmynxbteCxdxeZecgiecxgdieocgrecxecgiecxgdi,eZecgiebxxseocgrecxecgi
bxxs,egsie.xrehdmneczbeomdibezreogbexazixsrercgrecxebgoekyxgdy.esmr
msy.eocgrecgiecgvvxsxielqreocgreogbeglmqrermecgvvxs,eoczyxermenxercx
ocmyxelqbzsxbbeogbebrzyyekmshqbxiegsie dmrxbuqxteGbeZeidmaxecmnxermen.
cmqbxezseJxsbzs rmseZercmq cremaxdezregyy,ehdmnercxexprdgmdizsgd.ebrmd.
mhercxedxi-cxgixiekmvzxdemhercxe_Xsk.kymvæizg_eimosermercxeazbzrerm
Bgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdx,egsiercxemnzsmqbeomdibeozrceoczkcecxecgievgdrxiehdmn
nxteOcgreogberczbesmkrqdsgyexpvxizrzms,egsieoc.ebcmqyieZe megdnxi?
Ocxdxeoxdxeoxe mzs ,egsieocgreoxdxeoxermeim?eZecgiercxeczsrehdmneCmynxb
rcgrerczbebnmmrc-hgkxievgosldmjxd’begbbzbrgsreogbegehmdnziglyxengs—g
ngseocmenz crevyg.egeixxve gnxteZerdzxiermevqwwyxezremqr,elqre gaxezr
qvezseixbvgzdegsiebxrercxengrrxdegbzixeqsrzyesz crebcmqyieldzs egs
xpvygsgrzmst

Zreogbegeuqgdrxd-vgbreszsxeocxseZebrgdrxiehdmnecmnxegsiengixen.eog.
gkdmbbercxeVgdj,egsiebmercdmq ceMphmdieBrdxxrermeLgjxdeBrdxxrteRom
cgsbmnbeoxdxebrgsizs egrercxeimmd,egsiegbeZexsrxdxiercxevgbbg xeZecxgdi
rcxebmqsiemheamzkxbehdmneglmaxteMsexsrxdzs eczbedmmn,eZehmqsieCmynxbezs
gszngrxiekmsaxdbgrzmseozrceromenxs,emsxemheocmneZedxkm szbxiegbeVxrxd
Fmsxb,ercxemhhzkzgyevmyzkxeg xsr,eoczyxercxemrcxdeogbegeyms ,erczs,
bgi-hgkxiengs,eozrcegeaxd.ebczs.ecgregsiemvvdxbbzaxy.edxbvxkrglyx
hdmkj-kmgrt

“Cg!eMqdevgdr.ezbekmnvyxrx,”ebgzieCmynxb,elqrrmszs eqveczbevxg-fgkjxr
gsiergjzs eczbecxga.ecqsrzs ekdmvehdmnercxedgkjte“Ogrbms,eZerczsje.mq
jsmoeNdteFmsxb,emheBkmrygsie.gdi?eYxrenxezsrdmiqkxe.mqermeNdt
Nxdd.oxgrcxd,eocmezbermelxemqdekmnvgszmsezserm-sz cr’begiaxsrqdxt”

“Ox’dxecqsrzs ezsekmqvyxbeg gzs,eImkrmd,e.mqebxx,”ebgzieFmsxbezseczb
kmsbxuqxsrzgyeog.te“Mqdehdzxsiecxdxezbegeomsixdhqyengsehmdebrgdrzs eg
kcgbxteGyyecxeogsrbezbegsemyieim ermecxyvecznermeimercxedqsszs eimost”

“Zecmvxegeozyie mmbxeng.esmrevdmaxermelxercxexsiemhemqdekcgbx,”
mlbxdaxieNdteNxdd.oxgrcxde ymmnzy.t

“.mqeng.evygkxekmsbzixdglyxekmshzixskxezseNdteCmynxb,ebzd,”ebgziercx
vmyzkxeg xsreymhrzy.te“Cxecgbeczbemoseyzrryxenxrcmib,eoczkcegdx,ezhecx
oms’renzsien.ebg.zs ebm,efqbregeyzrryxermmercxmdxrzkgyegsiehgsrgbrzk,
lqrecxecgbercxengjzs bemhegeixrxkrzaxezsecznteZrezbesmrermmenqkcermebg.
rcgremskxemderozkx,egbezsercgrelqbzsxbbemhercxeBcmyrmenqdixdegsiercx
G dgerdxgbqdx,ecxecgbelxxsenmdxesxgdy.ekmddxkrercgsercxemhhzkzgy
hmdkxt”

“Mc,ezhe.mqebg.ebm,eNdteFmsxb,ezrezbegyyedz cr,”ebgziercxebrdgs xdeozrc
ixhxdxskxte“Brzyy,eZekmshxbbercgreZenzbben.edqllxdteZrezbercxehzdbr
Bgrqdig.esz crehmdebxaxs-gsi-roxsr.e.xgdbercgreZecgaxesmrecgien.
dqllxdt”

“Zerczsje.mqeozyyehzsi,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,e“rcgre.mqeozyyevyg.ehmd
gecz cxdebrgjxerm-sz crercgse.mqecgaxexaxdeimsxe.xr,egsiercgrercxevyg.
ozyyelxenmdxexpkzrzs teHmde.mq,eNdteNxdd.oxgrcxd,ercxebrgjxeozyyelx
bmnxe£e30,000;egsiehmde.mq,eFmsxb,ezreozyyelxercxengseqvmseocmne.mq
ozbcermeyg.e.mqdecgsibt”

“FmcseKyg.,ercxenqdixdxd,erczxh,ebngbcxd,egsiehmd xdteCx’bege.mqs engs,
NdteNxdd.oxgrcxd,elqrecxezbegrercxecxgiemheczbevdmhxbbzms,egsieZeomqyi
dgrcxdecgaxen.eldgkxyxrbemsecznercgsemsegs.ekdznzsgyezseYmsimsteCx’beg
dxngdjglyxengs,ezbe.mqs eFmcseKyg.teCzbe dgsihgrcxdeogbegedm.gyeiqjx,
gsiecxecznbxyhecgbelxxsermeXrmsegsieMphmditeCzbeldgzsezbegbekqsszs egb
czbehzs xdb,egsiercmq ceoxenxxrebz sbemhecznegrexaxd.erqds,eoxesxaxd
jsmoeocxdxermehzsiercxengsecznbxyhteCx’yyekdgkjegekdzlezseBkmrygsiemsx
oxxj,egsielxedgzbzs enmsx.ermelqzyiegsemdvcgsg xezseKmdsogyyercxesxprt
Z’axelxxsemseczberdgkjehmde.xgdbegsiecgaxesxaxdebxrex.xbemseczne.xrt”

“ZecmvxercgreZeng.ecgaxercxevyxgbqdxemhezsrdmiqkzs e.mqerm-sz crteZ’ax
cgiemsxemderomeyzrryxerqdsbegybmeozrceNdteFmcseKyg.,egsieZeg dxxeozrc
.mqercgrecxezbegrercxecxgiemheczbevdmhxbbzmsteZrezbevgbrerxs,ecmoxaxd,
gsieuqzrxerznxercgreoxebrgdrxiteZhe.mqeromeozyyergjxercxehzdbrecgsbmn,
OgrbmsegsieZeozyyehmyymoezsercxebxkmsit”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbesmreaxd.ekmnnqszkgrzaxeiqdzs ercxeyms eidzaxegsi
yg.elgkjezsercxekglecqnnzs ercxerqsxbeoczkcecxecgiecxgdiezsercx
ghrxdsmmsteOxedgrryxiercdmq cegsexsiyxbbeygl.dzsrcemhe gb-yzrebrdxxrb
qsrzyeoxexnxd xiezsrmeHgddzs rmseBrdxxrt

“Oxegdxekymbxercxdxesmo,”en.ehdzxsiedxngdjxite“RczbehxyymoeNxdd.oxgrcxd
zbegelgsjeizdxkrmd,egsievxdbmsgyy.ezsrxdxbrxiezsercxengrrxdteZercmq cr
zregbeoxyyermecgaxeFmsxbeozrceqbegybmteCxezbesmregelgiehxyymo,ercmq c
gseglbmyqrxeznlxkzyxezseczbevdmhxbbzmsteCxecgbemsxevmbzrzaxeazdrqxteCx
zbegbeldgaxegbegelqyyim egsiegberxsgkzmqbegbegeymlbrxdezhecxe xrbeczb
kygobeqvmsegs.msxteCxdxeoxegdx,egsiercx.egdxeogzrzs ehmdeqbt”

Oxecgiedxgkcxiercxebgnxekdmoixiercmdmq chgdxezseoczkceoxecgiehmqsi
mqdbxyaxbezsercxenmdszs teMqdekglbeoxdxeizbnzbbxi,egsi,ehmyymozs ercx
 qzigskxemheNdteNxdd.oxgrcxd,eoxevgbbxieimosegesgddmoevgbbg xegsi
rcdmq cegebzixeimmd,eoczkcecxemvxsxiehmdeqbteOzrczsercxdxeogbegebngyy
kmddzimd,eoczkcexsixiezsegeaxd.engbbzaxezdmse grxteRczbegybmeogb
mvxsxi,egsieyxieimosegehyz cremheozsizs ebrmsxebrxvb,eoczkcerxdnzsgrxi
gregsmrcxdehmdnziglyxe grxteNdteNxdd.oxgrcxdebrmvvxiermeyz creg
ygsrxds,egsiercxsekmsiqkrxieqbeimosegeigdj,exgdrc-bnxyyzs evgbbg x,egsi
bm,eghrxdemvxszs egerczdieimmd,ezsrmegecq xeagqyremdekxyygd,eoczkceogb
vzyxiegyyedmqsieozrcekdgrxbegsiengbbzaxelmpxbt

“.mqegdxesmreaxd.eaqysxdglyxehdmneglmax,”eCmynxbedxngdjxiegbecxecxyieqv
rcxeygsrxdsegsie gwxieglmqrecznt

“Smdehdmnelxymo,”ebgzieNdteNxdd.oxgrcxd,ebrdzjzs eczbebrzkjeqvmsercx
hyg beoczkceyzsxiercxehymmdte“Oc.,eixgdenx,ezrebmqsibeuqzrxecmyymo!”ecx
dxngdjxi,eymmjzs eqvezsebqdvdzbxt

“Zenqbredxgyy.egbje.mqermelxegeyzrryxenmdxeuqzxr!”ebgzieCmynxb
bxaxdxy.te“.mqecgaxegydxgi.eznvxdzyyxiercxeocmyxebqkkxbbemhemqd
xpvxizrzmsteNz creZelx ercgre.mqeomqyiecgaxercxe mmisxbbermebzreimos
qvmsemsxemhercmbxelmpxb,egsiesmrermezsrxdhxdx?”

RcxebmyxnseNdteNxdd.oxgrcxdevxdkcxiecznbxyheqvmsegekdgrx,eozrcegeaxd.
zsfqdxiexpvdxbbzmseqvmseczbehgkx,eoczyxeCmynxbehxyyeqvmseczbejsxxbeqvms
rcxehymmdegsi,eozrcercxeygsrxdsegsiegeng szh.zs eyxsb,elx gsermexpgnzsx
nzsqrxy.ercxekdgkjbelxroxxsercxebrmsxbteGehxoebxkmsibebqhhzkxierm
bgrzbh.eczn,ehmdecxebvdgs ermeczbehxxreg gzsegsievqreczbe ygbbezseczb
vmkjxrt

“Oxecgaxegreyxgbregsecmqdelxhmdxeqb,”ecxedxngdjxi,e“hmdercx.ekgsecgdiy.
rgjxegs.ebrxvbeqsrzyercxe mmievgosldmjxdezbebghxy.ezselxiteRcxsercx.
ozyyesmreymbxegenzsqrx,ehmdercxebmmsxdercx.eimercxzdeomdjercxeyms xd
rznxercx.eozyyecgaxehmdercxzdexbkgvxteOxegdxegrevdxbxsr,eImkrmd—gbesm
imqlre.mqecgaxeizazsxi—zsercxekxyygdemhercxeKzr.eldgskcemhemsxemhercx
vdzskzvgyeYmsimselgsjbteNdteNxdd.oxgrcxdezbercxekcgzdngsemheizdxkrmdb,
gsiecxeozyyexpvygzserme.mqercgrercxdxegdxedxgbmsbeoc.ercxenmdxeigdzs 
kdznzsgybemheYmsimsebcmqyiergjxegekmsbzixdglyxezsrxdxbrezserczbekxyygd
grevdxbxsrt”

“ZrezbemqdeHdxskce myi,”eoczbvxdxiercxeizdxkrmdte“Oxecgaxecgiebxaxdgy
ogdszs bercgregsegrrxnvrenz crelxengixeqvmsezrt”

“.mqdeHdxskce myi?”

“.xbteOxecgiemkkgbzmsebmnxenmsrcbeg mermebrdxs rcxsemqdedxbmqdkxbegsi
lmddmoxiehmdercgrevqdvmbxe30,000esgvmyxmsbehdmnercxeLgsjemheHdgskxteZr
cgbelxkmnxejsmosercgreoxecgaxesxaxdecgiemkkgbzmsermeqsvgkjercxenmsx.,
gsiercgrezrezbebrzyyey.zs ezsemqdekxyygdteRcxekdgrxeqvmseoczkceZebzr
kmsrgzsbe2,000esgvmyxmsbevgkjxielxroxxseyg.xdbemheyxgiehmzyteMqd
dxbxdaxemhelqyyzmsezbenqkceygd xdegrevdxbxsrercgsezbeqbqgyy.ejxvrezseg
bzs yxeldgskcemhhzkx,egsiercxeizdxkrmdbecgaxecgienzb zazs beqvmsercx
bqlfxkrt”

“Oczkceoxdxeaxd.eoxyyefqbrzhzxi,”emlbxdaxieCmynxbte“Gsiesmoezrezberznx
rcgreoxegddgs xiemqdeyzrryxevygsbteZexpvxkrercgreozrczsegsecmqdengrrxdb
ozyyekmnxermegecxgiteZsercxenxgsrznxeNdteNxdd.oxgrcxd,eoxenqbrevqrercx
bkdxxsemaxdercgreigdjeygsrxdst”

“Gsiebzrezsercxeigdj?”

“ZegneghdgziebmteZecgieldmq cregevgkjemhekgdibezsen.evmkjxr,egsieZ
rcmq crercgr,egbeoxeoxdxege_vgdrzxekgddéx_,e.mqenz crecgaxe.mqdedqllxd
ghrxdegyyteLqreZebxxercgrercxexsxn.’bevdxvgdgrzmsbecgaxe msxebmehgd
rcgreoxekgssmredzbjercxevdxbxskxemhegeyz crteGsi,ehzdbremhegyy,eoxenqbr
kcmmbxemqdevmbzrzmsbteRcxbxegdxeigdzs enxs,egsiercmq ceoxebcgyyergjx
rcxnegregeizbgiagsrg x,ercx.eng.eimeqbebmnxecgdneqsyxbbeoxegdxekgdxhqyt
Zebcgyyebrgsielxczsierczbekdgrx,egsieime.mqekmskxgye.mqdbxyaxbelxczsi
rcmbxteRcxs,eocxseZehygbcegeyz creqvmsercxn,ekymbxezsebozhry.teZhercx.
hzdx,eOgrbms,ecgaxesmekmnvqskrzmseglmqrebcmmrzs ercxneimost”

Zevygkxien.edxamyaxd,ekmkjxi,eqvmsercxermvemhercxeommixsekgbxelxczsi
oczkceZekdmqkcxiteCmynxbebcmrercxebyzixegkdmbbercxehdmsremheczbeygsrxds
gsieyxhreqbezsevzrkceigdjsxbb—bqkcegseglbmyqrxeigdjsxbbegbeZecgaxesxaxd
lxhmdxexpvxdzxskxiteRcxebnxyyemhecmrenxrgyedxngzsxiermegbbqdxeqbercgr
rcxeyz creogbebrzyyercxdx,edxgi.ermehygbcemqregregenmnxsr’besmrzkxteRm
nx,eozrcen.esxdaxbeomdjxieqvermegevzrkcemhexpvxkrgsk.,ercxdxeogb
bmnxrczs eixvdxbbzs egsiebqliqzs ezsercxebqiixse ymmn,egsiezsercxekmyi
igsjegzdemhercxeagqyrt

“Rcx.ecgaxelqremsxedxrdxgr,”eoczbvxdxieCmynxbte“Rcgrezbelgkjercdmq c
rcxecmqbxezsrmeBgpx-Kmlqd eBuqgdxteZecmvxercgre.mqecgaxeimsxeocgreZ
gbjxie.mq,eFmsxb?”

“Zecgaxegsezsbvxkrmdegsieromemhhzkxdbeogzrzs egrercxehdmsreimmdt”

“RcxseoxecgaxebrmvvxiegyyercxecmyxbteGsiesmoeoxenqbrelxebzyxsregsi
ogzrt”

Ocgregerznxezrebxxnxi!eHdmnekmnvgdzs esmrxbeghrxdogdibezreogbelqregs
cmqdegsiegeuqgdrxd,e.xrezregvvxgdxiermenxercgrercxesz crenqbrecgax
gynmbre msx,egsiercxeigoselxeldxgjzs eglmaxeqbteN.eyznlbeoxdxeoxgd.egsi
brzhh,ehmdeZehxgdxiermekcgs xen.evmbzrzms;e.xren.esxdaxbeoxdxeomdjxieqv
rmercxecz cxbrevzrkcemherxsbzms,egsien.ecxgdzs eogbebmegkqrxercgreZ
kmqyiesmremsy.ecxgdercxe xsryxeldxgrczs emhen.ekmnvgszmsb,elqreZekmqyi
izbrzs qzbcercxeixxvxd,ecxgazxdezs-ldxgrcemhercxelqyj.eFmsxbehdmnercx
rczs,ebz czs esmrxemhercxelgsjeizdxkrmdteHdmnen.evmbzrzmseZekmqyieymmj
maxdercxekgbxezsercxeizdxkrzmsemhercxehymmdteBqiixsy.en.ex.xbekgq cr
rcxe yzsremhegeyz crt

GrehzdbrezreogbelqregeyqdziebvgdjeqvmsercxebrmsxevgaxnxsrteRcxsezr
yxs rcxsxiemqreqsrzyezrelxkgnxege.xyymoeyzsx,egsiercxs,eozrcmqregs.
ogdszs emdebmqsi,ege gbcebxxnxiermemvxsegsiegecgsiegvvxgdxi,egeoczrx,
gynmbreomngsy.ecgsi,eoczkcehxyreglmqrezsercxekxsrdxemhercxeyzrryxegdxg
mheyz crteHmdegenzsqrxemdenmdxercxecgsi,eozrcezrbeodzrczs ehzs xdb,
vdmrdqixiemqremhercxehymmdteRcxsezreogbeozrcidgosegbebqiixsy.egbezr
gvvxgdxi,egsiegyyeogbeigdjeg gzsebgaxercxebzs yxeyqdziebvgdjeoczkc
ngdjxiegekczsjelxroxxsercxebrmsxbt

Zrbeizbgvvxgdgskx,ecmoxaxd,eogbelqrenmnxsrgd.teOzrcegedxsizs ,erxgdzs 
bmqsi,emsxemhercxeldmgi,eoczrxebrmsxberqdsxiemaxdeqvmsezrbebzixegsi
yxhregebuqgdx,e gvzs ecmyx,ercdmq ceoczkcebrdxgnxiercxeyz cremheg
ygsrxdsteMaxdercxexi xercxdxevxxvxiegekyxgs-kqr,elm.zbcehgkx,eoczkc
ymmjxiejxxsy.eglmqrezr,egsiercxs,eozrcegecgsiemsexzrcxdebzixemhercx
gvxdrqdx,eidxoezrbxyhebcmqyixd-cz cegsieogzbr-cz c,eqsrzyemsxejsxx
dxbrxieqvmsercxexi xteZsegsmrcxdezsbrgsrecxebrmmiegrercxebzixemhercx
cmyxegsieogbecgqyzs eghrxdecznegekmnvgszms,eyzrcxegsiebngyyeyzjx
cznbxyh,eozrcegevgyxehgkxegsiegebcmkjemheaxd.edxiecgzdt

“Zr’begyyekyxgd,”ecxeoczbvxdxite“Cgaxe.mqercxekczbxyegsiercxelg b?
 dxgreBkmrr!eFqnv,eGdkczx,efqnv,egsieZ’yyebozs ehmdezr!”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbecgiebvdqs emqregsiebxzwxiercxezsrdqixdel.ercxekmyygdt
Rcxemrcxdeizaxieimosercxecmyx,egsieZecxgdiercxebmqsiemhedxsizs ekymrc
gbeFmsxbekyqrkcxiegreczbebjzdrbteRcxeyz crehygbcxieqvmsercxelgddxyemheg
dxamyaxd,elqreCmynxb’ecqsrzs ekdmvekgnxeimosemsercxengs’beodzbr,egsi
rcxevzbrmyekyzsjxieqvmsercxebrmsxehymmdt

“Zr’besmeqbx,eFmcseKyg.,”ebgzieCmynxbelygsiy.te“.mqecgaxesmekcgskxegr
gyyt”

“BmeZebxx,”ercxemrcxdegsboxdxieozrcercxeqrnmbrekmmysxbbte“Zehgsk.ercgr
n.evgyezbegyyedz cr,ercmq ceZebxxe.mqecgaxe mreczbekmgr-rgzybt”

“Rcxdxegdxercdxxenxseogzrzs ehmdecznegrercxeimmd,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“Mc,ezsixxi!e.mqebxxnermecgaxeimsxercxerczs eaxd.ekmnvyxrxy.teZenqbr
kmnvyznxsre.mqt”

“GsieZe.mq,”eCmynxbegsboxdxite“.mqdedxi-cxgixiezixgeogbeaxd.esxoegsi
xhhxkrzaxt”

“.mq’yyebxxe.mqdevgyeg gzsevdxbxsry.,”ebgzieFmsxbte“Cx’beuqzkjxdegr
kyznlzs eimosecmyxbercgseZegnteFqbrecmyiemqreoczyxeZehzpercxeixdlzxbt”

“Zelx ercgre.mqeozyyesmrermqkcenxeozrce.mqdehzyrc.ecgsib,”edxngdjxiemqd
vdzbmsxdegbercxecgsikqhhbekygrrxdxieqvmseczbeodzbrbte“.mqeng.esmrelx
gogdxercgreZecgaxedm.gyelymmiezsen.eaxzsbteCgaxercxe mmisxbb,egybm,
ocxse.mqegiidxbbenxegyog.bermebg.e‘bzd’egsie‘vyxgbxt’”

“Gyyedz cr,”ebgzieFmsxbeozrcegebrgdxegsiegebsz  xdte“Oxyy,eomqyie.mq
vyxgbx,ebzd,engdkceqvbrgzdb,eocxdxeoxekgse xregekglermekgdd.e.mqd
Cz csxbbermercxevmyzkx-brgrzms?”

“Rcgrezbelxrrxd,”ebgzieFmcseKyg.ebxdxsxy.teCxengixegeboxxvzs elmoerm
rcxercdxxemheqbegsieogyjxieuqzxry.emhhezsercxekqbrmi.emhercxeixrxkrzaxt

“Dxgyy.,eNdteCmynxb,”ebgzieNdteNxdd.oxgrcxdegbeoxehmyymoxiercxnehdmn
rcxekxyygd,e“Zeimesmrejsmoecmoercxelgsjekgsercgsje.mqemdedxvg.e.mqt
Rcxdxezbesmeimqlrercgre.mqecgaxeixrxkrxiegsieixhxgrxiezsercxenmbr
kmnvyxrxengssxdemsxemhercxenmbreixrxdnzsxiegrrxnvrbegrelgsjedmllxd.
rcgrecgaxexaxdekmnxeozrczsen.expvxdzxskxt”

“Zecgaxecgiemsxemderomeyzrryxebkmdxbemhen.emosermebxrryxeozrceNdteFmcs
Kyg.,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Zecgaxelxxsegrebmnxebngyyexpvxsbxemaxderczb
ngrrxd,eoczkceZebcgyyexpvxkrercxelgsjermedxhqsi,elqrelx.msiercgreZegn
gnvy.edxvgziel.ecgazs ecgiegsexpvxdzxskxeoczkcezbezsengs.eog.beqszuqx,
gsiel.ecxgdzs ercxeaxd.edxngdjglyxesgddgrzaxemhercxeDxi-cxgixieYxg qxt”

“.mqebxx,eOgrbms,”ecxexpvygzsxiezsercxexgdy.ecmqdbemhercxenmdszs egbeox
bgremaxdege ygbbemheoczbj.egsiebmigezseLgjxdeBrdxxr,e“zreogbevxdhxkry.
mlazmqbehdmnercxehzdbrercgrercxemsy.evmbbzlyxemlfxkremherczbedgrcxd
hgsrgbrzkelqbzsxbbemhercxegiaxdrzbxnxsremhercxeYxg qx,egsiercxekmv.zs 
mhercxe_Xsk.kymvæizg_,enqbrelxerme xrerczbesmremaxd-ldz crevgosldmjxd
mqremhercxeog.ehmdegesqnlxdemhecmqdbexaxd.eig.teZreogbegekqdzmqbeog.emh
ngsg zs ezr,elqr,edxgyy.,ezreomqyielxeizhhzkqyrermebq  xbregelxrrxdt
Rcxenxrcmieogbesmeimqlrebq  xbrxiermeKyg.’bezs xszmqbenzsiel.ercx
kmymqdemheczbegkkmnvyzkx’becgzdteRcxe£e4egeoxxjeogbegeyqdxeoczkcenqbr
idgoeczn,egsieocgreogbezrermercxn,eocmeoxdxevyg.zs ehmdercmqbgsib?eRcx.
vqrezsercxegiaxdrzbxnxsr,emsxedm qxecgbercxerxnvmdgd.emhhzkx,ercxemrcxd
dm qxezskzrxbercxengsermegvvy.ehmdezr,egsierm xrcxdercx.engsg xerm
bxkqdxeczbeglbxskxexaxd.enmdszs ezsercxeoxxjteHdmnercxerznxercgreZ
cxgdiemhercxegbbzbrgsrecgazs ekmnxehmdecgyheog xb,ezreogbemlazmqbermenx
rcgrecxecgiebmnxebrdms enmrzaxehmdebxkqdzs ercxebzrqgrzmst”

“Lqrecmoekmqyie.mqe qxbbeocgrercxenmrzaxeogb?”

“Cgiercxdxelxxseomnxsezsercxecmqbx,eZebcmqyiecgaxebqbvxkrxiegenxdx
aqy gdezsrdz qxteRcgr,ecmoxaxd,eogbemqremhercxeuqxbrzmsteRcxengs’b
lqbzsxbbeogbegebngyyemsx,egsiercxdxeogbesmrczs ezseczbecmqbxeoczkc
kmqyiegkkmqsrehmdebqkcexyglmdgrxevdxvgdgrzmsb,egsiebqkcegsexpvxsizrqdx
gbercx.eoxdxegrteZrenqbr,ercxs,elxebmnxrczs emqremhercxecmqbxteOcgr
kmqyiezrelx?eZercmq cremhercxegbbzbrgsr’behmsisxbbehmdevcmrm dgvc.,egsi
czberdzkjemheagszbczs ezsrmercxekxyygdteRcxekxyygd!eRcxdxeogbercxexsi
mherczbergs yxiekyqxteRcxseZengixezsuqzdzxbegbermerczben.brxdzmqb
gbbzbrgsregsiehmqsiercgreZecgiermeixgyeozrcemsxemhercxekmmyxbregsienmbr
igdzs ekdznzsgybezseYmsimsteCxeogbeimzs ebmnxrczs ezsercx
kxyygd—bmnxrczs eoczkcermmjengs.ecmqdbegeig.ehmdenmsrcbemsexsiteOcgr
kmqyiezrelx,emskxenmdx?eZekmqyierczsjemhesmrczs ebgaxercgrecxeogb
dqsszs egerqssxyermebmnxemrcxdelqzyizs t

“BmehgdeZecgie mreocxseoxeoxsrermeazbzrercxebkxsxemhegkrzmsteZ
bqdvdzbxie.mqel.elxgrzs eqvmsercxevgaxnxsreozrcen.ebrzkjteZeogb
gbkxdrgzszs eocxrcxdercxekxyygdebrdxrkcxiemqrezsehdmsremdelxczsiteZr
ogbesmrezsehdmsrteRcxseZedgs ercxelxyy,egsi,egbeZecmvxi,ercxegbbzbrgsr
gsboxdxiezrteOxecgaxecgiebmnxebjzdnzbcxb,elqreoxecgiesxaxdebxrex.xb
qvmsexgkcemrcxdelxhmdxteZecgdiy.eymmjxiegreczbehgkxteCzbejsxxbeoxdx
ocgreZeozbcxiermebxxte.mqenqbre.mqdbxyhecgaxedxngdjxiecmoeomds,
odzsjyxi,egsiebrgzsxiercx.eoxdxteRcx.ebvmjxemhercmbxecmqdbemh
lqddmozs teRcxemsy.edxngzszs evmzsreogbeocgrercx.eoxdxelqddmozs ehmdteZ
ogyjxiedmqsiercxekmdsxd,ebgoercxeKzr.egsieBqlqdlgseLgsjeglqrrxiemsemqd
hdzxsi’bevdxnzbxb,egsiehxyrercgreZecgiebmyaxien.evdmlyxnteOcxse.mq
idmaxecmnxeghrxdercxekmskxdreZekgyyxieqvmseBkmrygsie.gdiegsieqvmsercx
kcgzdngsemhercxelgsjeizdxkrmdb,eozrcercxedxbqyrercgre.mqecgaxebxxst”

“Gsiecmoekmqyie.mqerxyyercgrercx.eomqyiengjxercxzdegrrxnvrerm-sz cr?”eZ
gbjxit

“Oxyy,eocxsercx.ekymbxiercxzdeYxg qxemhhzkxbercgreogbegebz sercgrercx.
kgdxiesmeyms xdeglmqreNdteFglxweOzybms’bevdxbxskx—zsemrcxdeomdib,ercgr
rcx.ecgiekmnvyxrxiercxzderqssxyteLqrezreogbexbbxsrzgyercgrercx.ebcmqyi
qbxezrebmms,egbezrenz crelxeizbkmaxdxi,emdercxelqyyzmsenz crelx
dxnmaxiteBgrqdig.eomqyiebqzrercxnelxrrxdercgsegs.emrcxdeig.,egbezr
omqyie zaxercxneromeig.behmdercxzdexbkgvxteHmdegyyercxbxedxgbmsbeZ
xpvxkrxiercxnermekmnxerm-sz crt”

“.mqedxgbmsxiezremqrelxgqrzhqyy.,”eZexpkygznxiezseqshxz sxieginzdgrzmst
“Zrezbebmeyms egekcgzs,egsie.xrexaxd.eyzsjedzs berdqxt”

“Zrebgaxienxehdmnexssqz,”ecxegsboxdxi,e.goszs te“Gygb!eZegydxgi.ehxxy
zrekymbzs ezseqvmsenxteN.eyzhxezbebvxsrezsemsxeyms exhhmdrermexbkgvx
hdmnercxekmnnmsvygkxbemhexpzbrxskxteRcxbxeyzrryxevdmlyxnbecxyvenxermeim
bmt”

“Gsie.mqegdxegelxsxhgkrmdemhercxedgkx,”ebgzieZt

Cxebcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdbte“Oxyy,evxdcgvb,eghrxdegyy,ezrezbemhebmnx
yzrryxeqbx,”ecxedxngdjxite“‘_Y’cmnnxek’xbredzxs—y’œqadxek’xbrermqr_,’
gbe qbrgaxeHygqlxdreodmrxerme xmd xeBgsit”



ZZZteGeKGBXeMHeZIXSRZR.

“N.eixgdehxyymo,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxbegbeoxebgremsexzrcxdebzixemhercx
hzdxezseczbeymi zs begreLgjxdeBrdxxr,e“yzhxezbezshzszrxy.ebrdgs xdercgs
gs.rczs eoczkcercxenzsiemhengsekmqyiezsaxsrteOxeomqyiesmreigdxerm
kmskxzaxercxerczs beoczkcegdxedxgyy.enxdxekmnnmsvygkxbemhexpzbrxskxteZh
oxekmqyiehy.emqremhercgreozsimoecgsiezsecgsi,ecmaxdemaxderczbe dxgr
kzr.,e xsry.edxnmaxercxedmmhb,egsievxxvezsegrercxeuqxxderczs beoczkc
gdxe mzs ems,ercxebrdgs xekmzskzixskxb,ercxevygsszs b,ercx
kdmbb-vqdvmbxb,ercxeomsixdhqyekcgzsbemhexaxsrb,eomdjzs ercdmq c
 xsxdgrzmsb,egsieyxgizs ermercxenmbre_mqrdé_edxbqyrb,ezreomqyiengjxegyy
hzkrzmseozrcezrbekmsaxsrzmsgyzrzxbegsiehmdxbxxsekmskyqbzmsbenmbrebrgyx
gsieqsvdmhzrglyxt”

“Gsie.xreZegnesmrekmsazskxiemhezr,”eZegsboxdxite“Rcxekgbxbeoczkcekmnx
rmeyz crezsercxevgvxdbegdx,egbegedqyx,elgyiexsmq c,egsieaqy gdexsmq ct
Oxecgaxezsemqdevmyzkxedxvmdrbedxgyzbnevqbcxiermezrbexprdxnxeyznzrb,egsi
.xrercxedxbqyrezb,ezrenqbrelxekmshxbbxi,esxzrcxdehgbkzsgrzs esmd
gdrzbrzkt”

“Gekxdrgzsebxyxkrzmsegsieizbkdxrzmsenqbrelxeqbxiezsevdmiqkzs eg
dxgyzbrzkexhhxkr,”edxngdjxieCmynxbte“Rczbezbeogsrzs ezsercxevmyzkx
dxvmdr,eocxdxenmdxebrdxbbezbeygzi,evxdcgvb,eqvmsercxevygrzrqixbemhercx
ng zbrdgrxercgseqvmsercxeixrgzyb,eoczkcermegsemlbxdaxdekmsrgzsercx
azrgyexbbxskxemhercxeocmyxengrrxdteIxvxsieqvmsezr,ercxdxezbesmrczs ebm
qssgrqdgyegbercxekmnnmsvygkxt”

Zebnzyxiegsiebcmmjen.ecxgite“Zekgseuqzrxeqsixdbrgsie.mqderczsjzs ebm,”
Zebgzite“Mhekmqdbx,ezse.mqdevmbzrzmsemheqsmhhzkzgyegiazbxdegsiecxyvxd
rmexaxd.lmi.eocmezbeglbmyqrxy.evqwwyxi,ercdmq cmqrercdxxekmsrzsxsrb,
.mqegdxeldmq crezsekmsrgkreozrcegyyercgrezbebrdgs xegsielzwgddxteLqr
cxdx”—Zevzkjxieqvercxenmdszs evgvxdehdmnercxe dmqsi—“yxreqbevqrezrermeg
vdgkrzkgyerxbrteCxdxezbercxehzdbrecxgizs eqvmseoczkceZekmnxte‘G
cqblgsi’bekdqxyr.ermeczbeozhxt’eRcxdxezbecgyhegekmyqnsemhevdzsr,elqreZ
jsmoeozrcmqredxgizs ezrercgrezrezbegyyevxdhxkry.ehgnzyzgdermenxteRcxdx
zb,emhekmqdbx,ercxemrcxdeomngs,ercxeidzsj,ercxevqbc,ercxelymo,ercx
ldqzbx,ercxeb.nvgrcxrzkebzbrxdemdeygsiygi.teRcxekdqixbremheodzrxdb
kmqyiezsaxsresmrczs enmdxekdqixt”

“Zsixxi,e.mqdexpgnvyxezbegseqshmdrqsgrxemsxehmde.mqdegd qnxsr,”ebgzi
Cmynxb,ergjzs ercxevgvxdegsie ygskzs eczbex.xeimosezrte“Rczbezbercx
Iqsigbebxvgdgrzmsekgbx,egsi,egbezrecgvvxsb,eZeogbexs g xiezsekyxgdzs 
qvebmnxebngyyevmzsrbezsekmssxkrzmseozrcezrteRcxecqblgsieogbeg
rxxrmrgyxd,ercxdxeogbesmemrcxdeomngs,egsiercxekmsiqkrekmnvygzsxiemheogb
rcgrecxecgieidzhrxiezsrmercxecglzremheozsizs eqvexaxd.enxgyel.ergjzs 
mqreczbehgybxerxxrcegsiecqdyzs ercxnegreczbeozhx,eoczkc,e.mqeozyy
gyymo,ezbesmregsegkrzmseyzjxy.ermemkkqdermercxezng zsgrzmsemhercx
gaxdg xebrmd.-rxyyxdteRgjxegevzskcemhebsqhh,eImkrmd,egsiegkjsmoyxi x
rcgreZecgaxebkmdxiemaxde.mqezse.mqdexpgnvyxt”

Cxecxyiemqreczbebsqhhlmpemhemyie myi,eozrcege dxgregnxrc.brezsercx
kxsrdxemhercxeyziteZrbebvyxsimqdeogbezsebqkcekmsrdgbrermeczbecmnxy.
og.begsiebznvyxeyzhxercgreZekmqyiesmrecxyvekmnnxsrzs eqvmsezrt

“Gc,”ebgziecx,e“Zehmd mrercgreZecgiesmrebxxse.mqehmdebmnxeoxxjbteZrezb
geyzrryxebmqaxszdehdmnercxeJzs emheLmcxnzgezsedxrqdsehmden.egbbzbrgskx
zsercxekgbxemhercxeZdxsxeGiyxdevgvxdbt”

“Gsiercxedzs ?”eZegbjxi,e ygskzs egregedxngdjglyxeldzyyzgsreoczkc
bvgdjyxieqvmseczbehzs xdt

“Zreogbehdmnercxedxz szs ehgnzy.emheCmyygsi,ercmq cercxengrrxdezseoczkc
Zebxdaxiercxneogbemhebqkceixyzkgk.ercgreZekgssmrekmshzixezrexaxserm
.mq,eocmecgaxelxxse mmiexsmq cermekcdmszkyxemsxemderomemhen.eyzrryx
vdmlyxnbt”

“Gsiecgaxe.mqegs.emsecgsiefqbresmo?”eZegbjxieozrcezsrxdxbrt

“Bmnxerxsemderoxyax,elqresmsxeoczkcevdxbxsregs.ehxgrqdxemhezsrxdxbrt
Rcx.egdxeznvmdrgsr,e.mqeqsixdbrgsi,eozrcmqrelxzs ezsrxdxbrzs teZsixxi,
Zecgaxehmqsiercgrezrezbeqbqgyy.ezseqsznvmdrgsrengrrxdbercgrercxdxezbeg
hzxyiehmdercxemlbxdagrzms,egsiehmdercxeuqzkjegsgy.bzbemhekgqbxegsi
xhhxkreoczkce zaxbercxekcgdnermegsezsaxbrz grzmsteRcxeygd xdekdznxbegdx
gvrermelxercxebznvyxd,ehmdercxelz  xdercxekdznxercxenmdxemlazmqb,egbeg
dqyx,ezbercxenmrzaxteZsercxbxekgbxb,ebgaxehmdemsxedgrcxdezsrdzkgrx
ngrrxdeoczkcecgbelxxsedxhxddxiermenxehdmneNgdbxzyyxb,ercxdxezbesmrczs 
oczkcevdxbxsrbegs.ehxgrqdxbemhezsrxdxbrteZrezbevmbbzlyx,ecmoxaxd,ercgr
Zeng.ecgaxebmnxrczs elxrrxdelxhmdxeaxd.engs.enzsqrxbegdxemaxd,ehmderczb
zbemsxemhen.ekyzxsrb,emdeZegnenqkcenzbrgjxst”

Cxecgiedzbxsehdmneczbekcgzdegsieogbebrgsizs elxroxxsercxevgdrxielyzsib
 gwzs eimosezsrmercxeiqyyesxqrdgy-rzsrxieYmsimsebrdxxrteYmmjzs emaxd
czbebcmqyixd,eZebgoercgremsercxevgaxnxsremvvmbzrxercxdxebrmmiegeygd x
omngseozrcegecxga.ehqdelmgedmqsiecxdesxkj,egsiegeygd xekqdyzs edxi
hxgrcxdezsegeldmgi-ldznnxiecgreoczkceogberzyrxiezsegekmuqxrrzbceIqkcxbb
mheIxamsbczdxehgbczmsemaxdecxdexgdteHdmneqsixderczbe dxgrevgsmvy.ebcx
vxxvxieqvezsegesxdamqb,ecxbzrgrzs ehgbczmsegremqdeozsimob,eoczyxecxd
lmi.embkzyygrxielgkjogdiegsiehmdogdi,egsiecxdehzs xdbehzi xrxieozrcecxd
 ymaxelqrrmsbteBqiixsy.,eozrcegevyqs x,egbemhercxeboznnxdeocmeyxgaxb
rcxelgsj,ebcxecqddzxiegkdmbbercxedmgi,egsieoxecxgdiercxebcgdvekygs emh
rcxelxyyt

“Zecgaxebxxsercmbxeb.nvrmnbelxhmdx,”ebgzieCmynxb,ercdmozs eczb
kz gdxrrxezsrmercxehzdxte“Mbkzyygrzmseqvmsercxevgaxnxsregyog.benxgsbegs
_ghhgzdxeixekœqd_teBcxeomqyieyzjxegiazkx,elqrezbesmrebqdxercgrercx
ngrrxdezbesmrermmeixyzkgrxehmdekmnnqszkgrzmsteGsie.xrexaxsecxdxeoxeng.
izbkdznzsgrxteOcxsegeomngsecgbelxxsebxdzmqby.eodms xiel.egengsebcxesm
yms xdembkzyygrxb,egsiercxeqbqgyeb.nvrmnezbegeldmjxselxyyeozdxteCxdxeox
ng.ergjxezrercgrercxdxezbegeymaxengrrxd,elqrercgrercxengzixsezbesmrebm
nqkcegs d.egbevxdvyxpxi,emde dzxaxiteLqrecxdxebcxekmnxbezsevxdbmserm
dxbmyaxemqdeimqlrbt”

Gbecxebvmjxercxdxeogbegergvegrercxeimmd,egsiercxelm.ezselqrrmsbexsrxdxi
rmegssmqskxeNzbbeNgd.eBqrcxdygsi,eoczyxercxeygi.ecxdbxyheymmnxielxczsi
czbebngyyelygkjehz qdxeyzjxegehqyy-bgzyxienxdkcgsr-ngselxczsiegerzs.
vzymrelmgrteBcxdymkjeCmynxbeoxykmnxiecxdeozrcercxexgb.ekmqdrxb.ehmd
oczkcecxeogbedxngdjglyx,egsi,ecgazs ekymbxiercxeimmdegsielmoxiecxdezsrm
gsegdnkcgzd,ecxeymmjxiecxdemaxdezsercxenzsqrxegsie.xreglbrdgkrxi
hgbczmseoczkceogbevxkqyzgdermecznt

“Ime.mqesmrehzsi,”ecxebgzi,e“rcgreozrce.mqdebcmdrebz crezrezbegeyzrryx
rd.zs ermeimebmenqkcer.vxodzrzs ?”

“Zeiziegrehzdbr,”ebcxegsboxdxi,e“lqresmoeZejsmoeocxdxercxeyxrrxdbegdx
ozrcmqreymmjzs t”eRcxs,ebqiixsy.edxgyzbzs ercxehqyyevqdvmdremheczb
omdib,ebcxe gaxegeazmyxsrebrgdregsieymmjxieqv,eozrcehxgdegsi
gbrmszbcnxsreqvmsecxdeldmgi,e mmi-cqnmqdxiehgkxte“.mq’axecxgdieglmqr
nx,eNdteCmynxb,”ebcxekdzxi,e“xybxecmoekmqyie.mqejsmoegyyercgr?”

“Sxaxdenzsi,”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs ;e“zrezben.elqbzsxbbermejsmoerczs bt
VxdcgvbeZecgaxerdgzsxien.bxyhermebxxeocgremrcxdbemaxdymmjteZhesmr,eoc.
bcmqyie.mqekmnxermekmsbqyrenx?”

“Zekgnxerme.mq,ebzd,elxkgqbxeZecxgdiemhe.mqehdmneNdbteXrcxdx x,eocmbx
cqblgsie.mqehmqsiebmexgb.eocxsercxevmyzkxegsiexaxd.msxecgie zaxseczneqv
hmdeixgiteMc,eNdteCmynxb,eZeozbce.mqeomqyieimegbenqkcehmdenxteZ’nesmr
dzkc,elqrebrzyyeZecgaxegecqsidxiege.xgdezsen.emosedz cr,elxbzixbercx
yzrryxercgreZengjxel.ercxengkczsx,egsieZeomqyie zaxezregyyermejsmoeocgr
cgbelxkmnxemheNdteCmbnxdeGs xyt”

“Oc.eizie.mqekmnxegog.ermekmsbqyrenxezsebqkcegecqdd.?”egbjxieBcxdymkj
Cmynxb,eozrceczbehzs xd-rzvberm xrcxdegsieczbex.xbermercxekxzyzs t

G gzsegebrgdryxieymmjekgnxemaxdercxebmnxocgreagkqmqbehgkxemheNzbbeNgd.
Bqrcxdygsite“.xb,eZeizielgs emqremhercxecmqbx,”ebcxebgzi,e“hmdezrengix
nxegs d.ermebxxercxexgb.eog.ezseoczkceNdteOzsizlgsj—rcgrezb,en.
hgrcxd—rmmjezregyyteCxeomqyiesmre mermercxevmyzkx,egsiecxeomqyiesmre m
rme.mq,egsiebmegreygbr,egbecxeomqyieimesmrczs egsiejxvremsebg.zs ercgr
rcxdxeogbesmecgdneimsx,ezrengixenxengi,egsieZefqbremseozrcen.erczs b
gsiekgnxedz cregog.erme.mqt”

“.mqdehgrcxd,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“.mqdebrxvhgrcxd,ebqdxy.,ebzskxercxesgnxezb
izhhxdxsrt”

“.xb,en.ebrxvhgrcxdteZekgyyecznehgrcxd,ercmq cezrebmqsibehqss.,ermm,
hmdecxezbemsy.ehzaxe.xgdbegsieromenmsrcbemyixdercgsen.bxyht”

“Gsie.mqdenmrcxdezbegyzax?”

“Mc,e.xb,enmrcxdezbegyzaxegsieoxyyteZeogbs’relxbrevyxgbxi,eNdteCmynxb,
ocxsebcxengddzxieg gzsebmebmmseghrxdehgrcxd’beixgrc,egsiegengseocmeogb
sxgdy.ehzhrxxse.xgdbe.mqs xdercgsecxdbxyhteHgrcxdeogbegevyqnlxdezsercx
RmrrxscgneKmqdreDmgi,egsiecxeyxhregerzi.elqbzsxbbelxczsieczn,eoczkc
nmrcxdekgddzxiemseozrceNdteCgdi.,ercxehmdxngs;elqreocxseNdteOzsizlgsj
kgnxecxengixecxdebxyyercxelqbzsxbb,ehmdecxeogbeaxd.ebqvxdzmd,elxzs eg
rdgaxyyxdezseozsxbteRcx.e mre£e4700ehmdercxe mmiozyyegsiezsrxdxbr,
oczkceogbs’resxgdegbenqkcegbehgrcxdekmqyiecgaxe mrezhecxecgielxxs
gyzaxt”

ZecgiexpvxkrxiermebxxeBcxdymkjeCmynxbeznvgrzxsreqsixderczbedgnlyzs egsi
zskmsbxuqxsrzgyesgddgrzax,elqr,emsercxekmsrdgd.,ecxecgieyzbrxsxieozrc
rcxe dxgrxbrekmskxsrdgrzmsemhegrrxsrzmst

“.mqdemoseyzrryxezskmnx,”ecxegbjxi,e“imxbezrekmnxemqremhercxelqbzsxbb?”

“Mc,esm,ebzdteZrezbeuqzrxebxvgdgrxegsieogbeyxhrenxel.en.eqskyxeSxiezs
GqkjygsiteZrezbezseSxoeWxgygsiebrmkj,evg.zs e4½evxdekxsrteRomercmqbgsi
hzaxecqsidxievmqsibeogbercxegnmqsr,elqreZekgsemsy.ermqkcercxezsrxdxbrt”

“.mqezsrxdxbrenxexprdxnxy.,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Gsiebzskxe.mqeidgoebmeygd x
gebqnegbegecqsidxiege.xgd,eozrceocgre.mqexgdsezsrmercxelgd gzs,e.mqesm
imqlrerdgaxyegeyzrryxegsiezsiqy xe.mqdbxyhezsexaxd.eog.teZelxyzxaxercgr
gebzs yxeygi.ekgse xremseaxd.eszkxy.eqvmsegsezskmnxemheglmqre£e60t”

“Zekmqyieimeozrcenqkceyxbbercgsercgr,eNdteCmynxb,elqre.mqeqsixdbrgsi
rcgregbeyms egbeZeyzaxegrecmnxeZeims’reozbcermelxegelqdixsermercxn,egsi
bmercx.ecgaxercxeqbxemhercxenmsx.efqbreoczyxeZegnebrg.zs eozrcercxnteMh
kmqdbx,ercgrezbemsy.efqbrehmdercxerznxteNdteOzsizlgsjeidgoben.ezsrxdxbr
xaxd.euqgdrxdegsievg.bezremaxdermenmrcxd,egsieZehzsiercgreZekgseim
vdxrr.eoxyyeozrceocgreZexgdsegrer.vxodzrzs teZreldzs benxeromvxskxeg
bcxxr,egsieZekgsemhrxseimehdmnehzhrxxsermeroxsr.ebcxxrbezsegeig.t”

“.mqecgaxengixe.mqdevmbzrzmseaxd.ekyxgdermenx,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Rczbezb
n.ehdzxsi,eIdteOgrbms,elxhmdxeocmne.mqekgsebvxgjegbehdxxy.egbelxhmdx
n.bxyhteJzsiy.erxyyeqbesmoegyyeglmqre.mqdekmssxkrzmseozrceNdteCmbnxd
Gs xyt”

GehyqbcebrmyxemaxdeNzbbeBqrcxdygsi’behgkx,egsiebcxevzkjxiesxdamqby.egr
rcxehdzs xemhecxdefgkjxrte“Zenxrecznehzdbregrercxe gbhzrrxdb’elgyy,”
bcxebgzite“Rcx.eqbxiermebxsiehgrcxderzkjxrbeocxsecxeogbegyzax,egsiercxs
ghrxdogdibercx.edxnxnlxdxieqb,egsiebxsrercxnermenmrcxdteNdteOzsizlgsj
iziesmreozbceqberme mteCxesxaxdeizieozbceqberme megs.ocxdxteCxeomqyi
 xreuqzrxengiezheZeogsrxiebmenqkcegbermefmzsegeBqsig.-bkcmmyerdxgrteLqr
rczberznxeZeogbebxremse mzs ,egsieZeomqyie m;ehmdeocgredz crecgiecxerm
vdxaxsr?eCxebgziercxehmyjeoxdxesmrehzrehmdeqbermejsmo,eocxsegyy
hgrcxd’behdzxsibeoxdxermelxercxdxteGsiecxebgziercgreZecgiesmrczs ehzr
rmeoxgd,eocxseZecgien.evqdvyxevyqbcercgreZecgiesxaxdebmenqkcegbergjxs
mqremhercxeidgoxdteGreygbr,eocxsesmrczs exybxeomqyieim,ecxeoxsremhherm
Hdgskxeqvmsercxelqbzsxbbemhercxehzdn,elqreoxeoxsr,enmrcxdegsieZ,eozrc
NdteCgdi.,eocmeqbxiermelxemqdehmdxngs,egsiezreogbercxdxeZenxreNdt
CmbnxdeGs xyt”

“Zebqvvmbx,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“rcgreocxseNdteOzsizlgsjekgnxelgkjehdmn
Hdgskxecxeogbeaxd.egssm.xiegre.mqdecgazs e msxermercxelgyyt”

“Mc,eoxyy,ecxeogbeaxd.e mmieglmqrezrteCxeygq cxi,eZedxnxnlxd,egsi
bcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdb,egsiebgziercxdxeogbesmeqbxeixs.zs egs.rczs ermeg
omngs,ehmdebcxeomqyiecgaxecxdeog.t”

“ZebxxteRcxsegrercxe gbhzrrxdb’elgyye.mqenxr,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,eg
 xsryxngsekgyyxieNdteCmbnxdeGs xyt”

“.xb,ebzdteZenxrecznercgresz cr,egsiecxekgyyxiesxpreig.ermegbjezheox
cgie mrecmnxegyyebghx,egsieghrxdercgreoxenxreczn—rcgrezbermebg.,eNdt
Cmynxb,eZenxrecznerozkxehmdeogyjb,elqreghrxdercgrehgrcxdekgnxelgkj
g gzs,egsieNdteCmbnxdeGs xyekmqyiesmrekmnxermercxecmqbxegs.enmdxt”

“Sm?”

“Oxyy,e.mqejsmoehgrcxdeizis’reyzjxegs.rczs emhercxebmdrteCxeomqyis’r
cgaxegs.eazbzrmdbezhecxekmqyiecxyvezr,egsiecxeqbxiermebg.ercgregeomngs
bcmqyielxecgvv.ezsecxdemosehgnzy.ekzdkyxteLqrercxs,egbeZeqbxiermebg.erm
nmrcxd,egeomngseogsrbecxdemosekzdkyxermelx zseozrc,egsieZecgiesmre mr
nzsxe.xrt”

“LqrecmoeglmqreNdteCmbnxdeGs xy?eIziecxengjxesmegrrxnvrermebxxe.mq?”

“Oxyy,ehgrcxdeogbe mzs emhhermeHdgskxeg gzsezsegeoxxj,egsieCmbnxdeodmrx
gsiebgziercgrezreomqyielxebghxdegsielxrrxdesmrermebxxexgkcemrcxdeqsrzy
cxecgie msxteOxekmqyieodzrxezsercxenxgsrznx,egsiecxeqbxiermeodzrxexaxd.
ig.teZermmjercxeyxrrxdbezsezsercxenmdszs ,ebmercxdxeogbesmesxxiehmd
hgrcxdermejsmot”

“Oxdxe.mqexs g xiermercxe xsryxngsegrerczberznx?”

“Mc,e.xb,eNdteCmynxbteOxeoxdxexs g xieghrxdercxehzdbreogyjercgreox
rmmjteCmbnxd—NdteGs xy—ogbegekgbczxdezsegsemhhzkxezseYxgixscgyy
Brdxxr—gsi—”

“Ocgremhhzkx?”

“Rcgr’bercxeomdbremhezr,eNdteCmynxb,eZeims’rejsmot”

“Ocxdxeiziecxeyzax,ercxs?”

“Cxebyxvremsercxevdxnzbxbt”

“Gsie.mqeims’rejsmoeczbegiidxbb?”

“Sm—xpkxvrercgrezreogbeYxgixscgyyeBrdxxrt”

“Ocxdxeizie.mqegiidxbbe.mqdeyxrrxdb,ercxs?”

“RmercxeYxgixscgyyeBrdxxreVmbreMhhzkx,ermelxeyxhrerzyyekgyyxiehmdteCx
bgziercgrezhercx.eoxdxebxsrermercxemhhzkxecxeomqyielxekcghhxiel.egyy
rcxemrcxdekyxdjbeglmqrecgazs eyxrrxdbehdmnegeygi.,ebmeZemhhxdxierm
r.vxodzrxercxn,eyzjxecxeizieczb,elqrecxeomqyis’recgaxercgr,ehmdecxebgzi
rcgreocxseZeodmrxercxnercx.ebxxnxiermekmnxehdmnenx,elqreocxsercx.eoxdx
r.vxodzrrxsecxegyog.behxyrercgrercxengkczsxecgiekmnxelxroxxseqbteRcgr
ozyyefqbrebcmoe.mqecmoehmsiecxeogbemhenx,eNdteCmynxb,egsiercxeyzrryx
rczs bercgrecxeomqyierczsjemht”

“Zreogbenmbrebq  xbrzax,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Zrecgbeyms elxxsegsegpzmnemh
nzsxercgrercxeyzrryxerczs begdxezshzszrxy.ercxenmbreznvmdrgsrteKgse.mq
dxnxnlxdegs.emrcxdeyzrryxerczs beglmqreNdteCmbnxdeGs xy?”

“Cxeogbegeaxd.ebc.engs,eNdteCmynxbteCxeomqyiedgrcxdeogyjeozrcenxezsercx
xaxszs ercgsezsercxeig.yz cr,ehmdecxebgziercgrecxecgrxiermelx
kmsbvzkqmqbteAxd.edxrzdzs egsie xsryxngsy.ecxeogbteXaxseczbeamzkxeogb
 xsryxteCx’iecgiercxeuqzsb.egsiebomyyxse ygsibeocxsecxeogbe.mqs ,ecx
rmyienx,egsiezrecgieyxhreczneozrcegeoxgjercdmgr,egsiegecxbzrgrzs ,
oczbvxdzs ehgbczmsemhebvxxkcteCxeogbegyog.beoxyyeidxbbxi,eaxd.esxgregsi
vygzs,elqreczbex.xbeoxdxeoxgj,efqbregbenzsxegdx,egsiecxeomdxerzsrxi
 ygbbxbeg gzsbrercxe ygdxt”

“Oxyy,egsieocgrecgvvxsxieocxseNdteOzsizlgsj,e.mqdebrxvhgrcxd,edxrqdsxi
rmeHdgskx?”

“NdteCmbnxdeGs xyekgnxermercxecmqbxeg gzsegsievdmvmbxiercgreoxebcmqyi
ngdd.elxhmdxehgrcxdekgnxelgkjteCxeogbezseidxgihqyexgdsxbregsiengixenx
boxgd,eozrcen.ecgsibemsercxeRxbrgnxsr,ercgreocgrxaxdecgvvxsxieZeomqyi
gyog.belxerdqxermecznteNmrcxdebgziecxeogbeuqzrxedz crermengjxenxeboxgd,
gsiercgrezreogbegebz semheczbevgbbzmsteNmrcxdeogbegyyezseczbehgamqd
hdmnercxehzdbregsieogbexaxsehmsixdemhecznercgseZeogbteRcxs,eocxsercx.
rgyjxiemhengdd.zs eozrczsercxeoxxj,eZelx gsermegbjeglmqrehgrcxd;elqr
rcx.elmrcebgziesxaxdermenzsieglmqrehgrcxd,elqrefqbrermerxyyeczn
ghrxdogdib,egsienmrcxdebgziebcxeomqyiengjxezregyyedz creozrcecznteZ
izis’reuqzrxeyzjxercgr,eNdteCmynxbteZrebxxnxiehqss.ercgreZebcmqyiegbj
czbeyxgax,egbecxeogbemsy.egehxoe.xgdbemyixdercgsenx;elqreZeizis’reogsr
rmeimegs.rczs emsercxeby.,ebmeZeodmrxermehgrcxdegreLmdixgqp,eocxdxercx
kmnvgs.ecgbezrbeHdxskcemhhzkxb,elqrercxeyxrrxdekgnxelgkjermenxemsercx
axd.enmdszs emhercxeoxiizs t”

“Zrenzbbxieczn,ercxs?”

“.xb,ebzd;ehmdecxecgiebrgdrxiermeXs ygsiefqbrelxhmdxezregddzaxit”

“Cg!ercgreogbeqshmdrqsgrxte.mqdeoxiizs eogbegddgs xi,ercxs,ehmdercx
Hdzig.teOgbezrermelxezsekcqdkc?”

“.xb,ebzd,elqreaxd.euqzxry.teZreogbermelxegreBrteBgazmqd’b,esxgdeJzs ’b
Kdmbb,egsieoxeoxdxermecgaxeldxgjhgbreghrxdogdibegrercxeBrteVgskdgb
CmrxyteCmbnxdekgnxehmdeqbezsegecgsbmn,elqregbercxdxeoxdxeromemheqbecx
vqreqbelmrcezsrmezregsiebrxvvxiecznbxyhezsrmegehmqd-ocxxyxd,eoczkc
cgvvxsxiermelxercxemsy.emrcxdekglezsercxebrdxxrteOxe mrermercxekcqdkc
hzdbr,egsieocxsercxehmqd-ocxxyxdeidmaxeqveoxeogzrxiehmdecznermebrxv
mqr,elqrecxesxaxdeizi,egsieocxsercxekglngse mreimosehdmnercxelmpegsi
ymmjxiercxdxeogbesmemsxercxdx!eRcxekglngsebgziercgrecxekmqyiesmr
zng zsxeocgrecgielxkmnxemheczn,ehmdecxecgiebxxseczne xrezseozrceczbemos
x.xbteRcgreogbeygbreHdzig.,eNdteCmynxb,egsieZecgaxesxaxdebxxsemdecxgdi
gs.rczs ebzskxercxsermercdmoegs.eyz creqvmseocgrelxkgnxemhecznt”

“Zrebxxnbermenxercgre.mqecgaxelxxseaxd.ebcgnxhqyy.erdxgrxi,”ebgzi
Cmynxbt

“Mc,esm,ebzd!eCxeogbermme mmiegsiejzsiermeyxgaxenxebmteOc.,egyyercx
nmdszs ecxeogbebg.zs ermenxercgr,eocgrxaxdecgvvxsxi,eZeogbermelxerdqx;
gsiercgrexaxsezhebmnxrczs euqzrxeqshmdxbxxsemkkqddxiermebxvgdgrxeqb,eZ
ogbegyog.bermedxnxnlxdercgreZeogbevyxi xiermeczn,egsiercgrecxeomqyi
kygzneczbevyxi xebmmsxdemdeygrxdteZrebxxnxiebrdgs xergyjehmdeg
oxiizs -nmdszs ,elqreocgrecgbecgvvxsxiebzskxe zaxbegenxgszs ermezrt”

“Nmbrekxdrgzsy.ezreimxbte.mqdemosemvzszmsezb,ercxs,ercgrebmnx
qshmdxbxxsekgrgbrdmvcxecgbemkkqddxiermeczn?”

“.xb,ebzdteZelxyzxaxercgrecxehmdxbgoebmnxeigs xd,emdexybxecxeomqyiesmr
cgaxergyjxiebmteGsiercxseZerczsjercgreocgrecxehmdxbgoecgvvxsxit”

“Lqre.mqecgaxesmesmrzmsegbermeocgrezrekmqyiecgaxelxxs?”

“Smsxt”

“MsxenmdxeuqxbrzmsteCmoeizie.mqdenmrcxdergjxercxengrrxd?”

“Bcxeogbegs d.,egsiebgziercgreZeogbesxaxdermebvxgjemhercxengrrxd
g gzst”

“Gsie.mqdehgrcxd?eIzie.mqerxyyeczn?”

“.xb;egsiecxebxxnxiermerczsj,eozrcenx,ercgrebmnxrczs ecgiecgvvxsxi,egsi
rcgreZebcmqyiecxgdemheCmbnxdeg gzsteGbecxebgzi,eocgrezsrxdxbrekmqyi
gs.msxecgaxezseldzs zs enxermercxeimmdbemhercxekcqdkc,egsiercxseyxgazs 
nx?eSmo,ezhecxecgielmddmoxien.enmsx.,emdezhecxecgiengddzxienxegsie mr
n.enmsx.ebxrryxiemseczn,ercxdxenz crelxebmnxedxgbms,elqreCmbnxdeogb
axd.ezsixvxsixsreglmqrenmsx.egsiesxaxdeomqyieymmjegregebczyyzs emh
nzsxteGsie.xr,eocgrekmqyiecgaxecgvvxsxi?eGsieoc.ekmqyiecxesmreodzrx?
Mc,ezreidzaxbenxecgyh-ngiermerczsjemhezr,egsieZekgs’rebyxxvegeozsjegr
sz crt”eBcxevqyyxiegeyzrryxecgsijxdkczxhemqremhecxdenqhhegsielx gserm
bmlecxgazy.ezsrmezrt

“Zebcgyye ygskxezsrmercxekgbxehmde.mq,”ebgzieCmynxb,edzbzs ,e“gsieZ
cgaxesmeimqlrercgreoxebcgyyedxgkcebmnxeixhzszrxedxbqyrteYxrercxeoxz cr
mhercxengrrxdedxbreqvmsenxesmo,egsieimesmreyxre.mqdenzsieioxyyeqvmsezr
hqdrcxdteGlmaxegyy,erd.ermeyxreNdteCmbnxdeGs xyeagszbcehdmne.mqd
nxnmd.,egbecxecgbeimsxehdmne.mqdeyzhxt”

“Rcxse.mqeims’rerczsjeZ’yyebxxeczneg gzs?”

“Zehxgdesmrt”

“Rcxseocgrecgbecgvvxsxiermeczn?”

“.mqeozyyeyxgaxercgreuqxbrzmsezsen.ecgsibteZebcmqyieyzjxegsegkkqdgrx
ixbkdzvrzmsemhecznegsiegs.eyxrrxdbemheczbeoczkce.mqekgsebvgdxt”

“ZegiaxdrzbxiehmdecznezseygbreBgrqdig.’be_Kcdmszkyx_,”ebgziebcxte“Cxdx
zbercxebyzvegsiecxdxegdxehmqdeyxrrxdbehdmnecznt”

“Rcgsje.mqteGsie.mqdegiidxbb?”

“Smte31eY.mseVygkx,eKgnlxdoxyyt”

“NdteGs xy’begiidxbbe.mqesxaxdecgi,eZeqsixdbrgsiteOcxdxezbe.mqd
hgrcxd’bevygkxemhelqbzsxbb?”

“CxerdgaxybehmdeOxbrcmqbxe&eNgdlgsj,ercxe dxgrekygdxreznvmdrxdbemh
HxskcqdkceBrdxxrt”

“Rcgsje.mqte.mqecgaxengixe.mqdebrgrxnxsreaxd.ekyxgdy.te.mqeozyyeyxgax
rcxevgvxdbecxdx,egsiedxnxnlxdercxegiazkxeoczkceZecgaxe zaxse.mqteYxr
rcxeocmyxezskzixsrelxegebxgyxielmmj,egsieimesmregyymoezrermeghhxkre.mqd
yzhxt”

“.mqegdxeaxd.ejzsi,eNdteCmynxb,elqreZekgssmreimercgrteZebcgyyelxerdqx
rmeCmbnxdteCxebcgyyehzsienxedxgi.eocxsecxekmnxbelgkjt”

Hmdegyyercxevdxvmbrxdmqbecgregsiercxeagkqmqbehgkx,ercxdxeogbebmnxrczs 
smlyxezsercxebznvyxehgzrcemhemqdeazbzrmdeoczkcekmnvxyyxiemqdedxbvxkrt
Bcxeygziecxdeyzrryxelqsiyxemhevgvxdbeqvmsercxerglyxegsieoxsrecxdeog.,
ozrcegevdmnzbxermekmnxeg gzseocxsxaxdebcxenz crelxebqnnmsxit

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebgrebzyxsrehmdegehxoenzsqrxbeozrceczbehzs xdrzvbebrzyy
vdxbbxierm xrcxd,eczbeyx bebrdxrkcxiemqrezsehdmsremheczn,egsieczbe gwx
izdxkrxieqvogdiermercxekxzyzs teRcxsecxermmjeimosehdmnercxedgkjercxemyi
gsiemzy.ekyg.evzvx,eoczkceogbermecznegbegekmqsbxyymd,egsi,ecgazs eyzr
zr,ecxeyxgsxielgkjezseczbekcgzd,eozrcercxerczkjelyqxekymqi-odxgrcb
bvzsszs eqvehdmneczn,egsiegeymmjemhezshzszrxeygs qmdezseczbehgkxt

“Uqzrxegsezsrxdxbrzs ebrqi.,ercgrengzixs,”ecxemlbxdaxite“Zehmqsiecxd
nmdxezsrxdxbrzs ercgsecxdeyzrryxevdmlyxn,eoczkc,el.ercxeog.,ezbedgrcxd
gerdzrxemsxte.mqeozyyehzsievgdgyyxyekgbxb,ezhe.mqekmsbqyren.ezsixp,ezs
Gsimaxdezse’77,egsiercxdxeogbebmnxrczs emhercxebmdregreRcxeCg qxeygbr
.xgdteMyiegbezbercxezixg,ecmoxaxd,ercxdxeoxdxemsxemderomeixrgzybeoczkc
oxdxesxoermenxteLqrercxengzixsecxdbxyheogbenmbrezsbrdqkrzaxt”

“.mqegvvxgdxiermedxgiege mmieixgyeqvmsecxdeoczkceogbeuqzrxezsazbzlyxerm
nx,”eZedxngdjxit

“Smrezsazbzlyxelqreqssmrzkxi,eOgrbmste.mqeiziesmrejsmoeocxdxermeymmj,
gsiebme.mqenzbbxiegyyercgreogbeznvmdrgsrteZekgsesxaxdeldzs e.mqerm
dxgyzbxercxeznvmdrgskxemhebyxxaxb,ercxebq  xbrzaxsxbbemhercqnl-sgzyb,
mdercxe dxgrezbbqxbercgreng.ecgs ehdmnegelmmr-ygkxteSmo,eocgreizie.mq
 grcxdehdmnercgreomngs’begvvxgdgskx?eIxbkdzlxezrt”

“Oxyy,ebcxecgiegebygrx-kmymqdxi,eldmgi-ldznnxiebrdgoecgr,eozrceg
hxgrcxdemhegeldzkjzbcedxiteCxdefgkjxreogbelygkj,eozrcelygkjelxgibebxos
qvmsezr,egsiegehdzs xemheyzrryxelygkjefxremdsgnxsrbteCxdeidxbbeogb
ldmos,edgrcxdeigdjxdercgsekmhhxxekmymqd,eozrcegeyzrryxevqdvyxevyqbcegr
rcxesxkjegsiebyxxaxbteCxde ymaxbeoxdxe dx.zbcegsieoxdxeomdsercdmq cegr
rcxedz crehmdxhzs xdteCxdelmmrbeZeizis’remlbxdaxteBcxecgiebngyyedmqsi,
cgs zs e myiexgddzs b,egsiege xsxdgyegzdemhelxzs ehgzdy.eoxyy-rm-imezs
geaqy gd,ekmnhmdrglyx,exgb.- mzs eog.t”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbekygvvxieczbecgsibebmhry.erm xrcxdegsiekcqkjyxit

“’Vmsen.eomdi,eOgrbms,e.mqegdxekmnzs egyms eomsixdhqyy.te.mqecgax
dxgyy.eimsxeaxd.eoxyyezsixxiteZrezberdqxercgre.mqecgaxenzbbxi
xaxd.rczs emheznvmdrgskx,elqre.mqecgaxeczreqvmsercxenxrcmi,egsie.mq
cgaxegeuqzkjex.xehmdekmymqdteSxaxderdqbrerme xsxdgyeznvdxbbzmsb,en.
lm.,elqrekmskxsrdgrxe.mqdbxyheqvmseixrgzybteN.ehzdbre ygskxezbegyog.b
gregeomngs’bebyxxaxteZsegengsezrezbevxdcgvbelxrrxdehzdbrermergjxercx
jsxxemhercxerdmqbxdteGbe.mqemlbxdax,erczbeomngsecgievyqbceqvmsecxd
byxxaxb,eoczkcezbegenmbreqbxhqyengrxdzgyehmdebcmozs erdgkxbteRcxeimqlyx
yzsxegeyzrryxeglmaxercxeodzbr,eocxdxercxer.vxodzrzbrevdxbbxbeg gzsbr
rcxerglyx,eogbelxgqrzhqyy.eixhzsxiteRcxebxozs -ngkczsx,emhercxecgsi
r.vx,eyxgaxbegebznzygdengdj,elqremsy.emsercxeyxhregdn,egsiemsercxebzix
mhezrehgdrcxbrehdmnercxercqnl,ezsbrxgiemhelxzs edz cregkdmbbercx
ldmgixbrevgdr,egberczbeogbteZercxse ygskxiegrecxdehgkx,egsi,emlbxdazs 
rcxeizsremhegevzskx-sxwegrexzrcxdebzixemhecxdesmbx,eZeaxsrqdxiegedxngdj
qvmsebcmdrebz cregsier.vxodzrzs ,eoczkcebxxnxiermebqdvdzbxecxdt”

“Zrebqdvdzbxienxt”

“Lqr,ebqdxy.,ezreogbemlazmqbteZeogbercxsenqkcebqdvdzbxiegsiezsrxdxbrxi
mse ygskzs eimosermemlbxdaxercgr,ercmq cercxelmmrbeoczkcebcxeogb
oxgdzs eoxdxesmreqsyzjxexgkcemrcxd,ercx.eoxdxedxgyy.emiiemsxb;ercxemsx
cgazs egebyz cry.eixkmdgrxiermx-kgv,egsiercxemrcxdegevygzsemsxteMsxeogb
lqrrmsxiemsy.ezsercxeromeymoxdelqrrmsbemqremhehzax,egsiercxemrcxdegr
rcxehzdbr,erczdi,egsiehzhrcteSmo,eocxse.mqebxxercgrege.mqs eygi.,
mrcxdozbxesxgry.eidxbbxi,ecgbekmnxegog.ehdmnecmnxeozrcemiielmmrb,
cgyh-lqrrmsxi,ezrezbesme dxgreixiqkrzmsermebg.ercgrebcxekgnxegog.ezseg
cqdd.t”

“Gsieocgrexybx?”eZegbjxi,ejxxsy.ezsrxdxbrxi,egbeZegyog.beogb,el.en.
hdzxsi’bezskzbzaxedxgbmszs t

“Zesmrxi,ezsevgbbzs ,ercgrebcxecgieodzrrxsegesmrxelxhmdxeyxgazs ecmnx
lqreghrxdelxzs ehqyy.eidxbbxite.mqemlbxdaxiercgrecxdedz cre ymaxeogb
rmdsegrercxehmdxhzs xd,elqre.mqeiziesmregvvgdxsry.ebxxercgrelmrce ymax
gsiehzs xdeoxdxebrgzsxieozrceazmyxrezsjteBcxecgieodzrrxsezsegecqdd.egsi
izvvxiecxdevxsermmeixxvteZrenqbrecgaxelxxserczbenmdszs ,emdercxengdj
omqyiesmredxngzsekyxgdeqvmsercxehzs xdteGyyerczbezbegnqbzs ,ercmq c
dgrcxdexyxnxsrgd.,elqreZenqbre melgkjermelqbzsxbb,eOgrbmsteOmqyie.mq
nzsiedxgizs enxercxegiaxdrzbxieixbkdzvrzmsemheNdteCmbnxdeGs xy?”

Zecxyiercxeyzrryxevdzsrxiebyzvermercxeyz crte“Nzbbzs ,”ezrebgzi,e“ms
rcxenmdszs emhercxehmqdrxxsrc,ege xsryxngsesgnxieCmbnxdeGs xyteGlmqr
hzaxehrtebxaxsezstezsecxz cr;ebrdms y.elqzyr,ebgyymoekmnvyxpzms,elygkj
cgzd,egeyzrryxelgyiezsercxekxsrdx,elqbc.,elygkjebzix-oczbjxdbegsi
nmqbrgkcx;erzsrxie ygbbxb,ebyz crezshzdnzr.emhebvxxkcteOgbeidxbbxi,
ocxseygbrebxxs,ezselygkjehdmkj-kmgrehgkxieozrcebzyj,elygkjeogzbrkmgr,
 myieGylxdrekcgzs,egsie dx.eCgddzberoxxierdmqbxdb,eozrceldmose gzrxdb
maxdexygbrzk-bzixielmmrbteJsmosermecgaxelxxsexnvym.xiezsegsemhhzkxezs
YxgixscgyyeBrdxxrteGs.lmi.eldzs zs ,”e&k,e&kt

“Rcgreozyyeim,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Gbermercxeyxrrxdb,”ecxekmsrzsqxi,
 ygskzs emaxdercxn,e“rcx.egdxeaxd.ekmnnmsvygkxteGlbmyqrxy.esmekyqxezs
rcxnermeNdteGs xy,ebgaxercgrecxeuqmrxbeLgywgkemskxteRcxdxezbemsx
dxngdjglyxevmzsr,ecmoxaxd,eoczkceozyyesmeimqlrebrdzjxe.mqt”

“Rcx.egdxer.vxodzrrxs,”eZedxngdjxit

“Smremsy.ercgr,elqrercxebz sgrqdxezber.vxodzrrxsteYmmjegrercxesxgr
yzrryxe‘CmbnxdeGs xy’egrercxelmrrmnteRcxdxezbegeigrx,e.mqebxx,elqresm
bqvxdbkdzvrzmsexpkxvreYxgixscgyyeBrdxxr,eoczkcezbedgrcxdeag qxteRcx
vmzsreglmqrercxebz sgrqdxezbeaxd.ebq  xbrzax—zsehgkr,eoxeng.ekgyyezr
kmskyqbzaxt”

“Mheocgr?”

“N.eixgdehxyymo,ezbezrevmbbzlyxe.mqeimesmrebxxecmoebrdms y.ezrelxgdb
qvmsercxekgbx?”

“Zekgssmrebg.ercgreZeimeqsyxbbezreoxdxercgrecxeozbcxiermelxeglyxerm
ixs.eczbebz sgrqdxezhegsegkrzmsehmdeldxgkcemhevdmnzbxeoxdxezsbrzrqrxit”

“Sm,ercgreogbesmrercxevmzsrteCmoxaxd,eZebcgyyeodzrxeromeyxrrxdb,eoczkc
bcmqyiebxrryxercxengrrxdteMsxezbermegehzdnezsercxeKzr.,ercxemrcxdezberm
rcxe.mqs eygi.’bebrxvhgrcxd,eNdteOzsizlgsj,egbjzs eczneocxrcxdecxekmqyi
nxxreqbecxdxegrebzpem’kymkjerm-nmddmoexaxszs teZrezbefqbregbeoxyyercgr
oxebcmqyieimelqbzsxbbeozrcercxengyxedxygrzaxbteGsiesmo,eImkrmd,eoxekgs
imesmrczs eqsrzyercxegsboxdbermercmbxeyxrrxdbekmnx,ebmeoxeng.evqremqd
yzrryxevdmlyxneqvmsercxebcxyhehmdercxezsrxdznt”

Zecgiecgiebmengs.edxgbmsbermelxyzxaxezsen.ehdzxsi’bebqlryxevmoxdbemh
dxgbmszs egsiexprdgmdizsgd.exsxd .ezsegkrzmsercgreZehxyrercgrecxenqbr
cgaxebmnxebmyzie dmqsibehmdercxegbbqdxiegsiexgb.eixnxgsmqdeozrceoczkc
cxerdxgrxiercxebzs qygden.brxd.eoczkcecxecgielxxsekgyyxieqvmserm
hgrcmnteMskxemsy.ecgieZejsmosecznermehgzy,ezsercxekgbxemhercxeJzs emh
LmcxnzgegsiemhercxeZdxsxeGiyxdevcmrm dgvc;elqreocxseZeymmjxielgkjerm
rcxeoxzdielqbzsxbbemhercxeBz semheHmqd,egsiercxexprdgmdizsgd.
kzdkqnbrgskxbekmssxkrxieozrcercxeBrqi.ezseBkgdyxr,eZehxyrercgrezreomqyi
lxegebrdgs xergs yxezsixxieoczkcecxekmqyiesmreqsdgaxyt

Zeyxhrecznercxs,ebrzyyevqhhzs egreczbelygkjekyg.evzvx,eozrcercx
kmsazkrzmsercgreocxseZekgnxeg gzsemsercxesxprexaxszs eZeomqyiehzsiercgr
cxecxyiezseczbecgsibegyyercxekyqxbeoczkceomqyieyxgieqvermercxezixsrzr.
mhercxeizbgvvxgdzs eldzix dmmnemheNzbbeNgd.eBqrcxdygsit

Gevdmhxbbzmsgyekgbxemhe dxgre dgazr.eogbexs g zs en.emosegrrxsrzmsegr
rcxerznx,egsiercxeocmyxemhesxpreig.eZeogbelqb.egrercxelxibzixemhercx
bqhhxdxdteZreogbesmreqsrzyekymbxeqvmsebzpem’kymkjercgreZehmqsien.bxyh
hdxxegsieogbeglyxermebvdzs ezsrmegecgsbmnegsieidzaxermeLgjxdeBrdxxr,
cgyheghdgziercgreZenz crelxermmeygrxermegbbzbregrercxe_iésmqxnxsr_emh
rcxeyzrryxen.brxd.teZehmqsieBcxdymkjeCmynxbegymsx,ecmoxaxd,ecgyh
gbyxxv,eozrceczbeyms ,erczsehmdnekqdyxieqvezsercxedxkxbbxbemheczb
gdnkcgzdteGehmdnziglyxegddg.emhelmrryxbegsierxbr-rqlxb,eozrcercx
vqs xsrekyxgsy.ebnxyyemhec.idmkcymdzkegkzi,ermyienxercgrecxecgiebvxsr
czbeig.ezsercxekcxnzkgyeomdjeoczkceogbebmeixgdermecznt

“Oxyy,ecgaxe.mqebmyaxiezr?”eZegbjxiegbeZexsrxdxit

“.xbteZreogbercxelzbqyvcgrxemhelgd.rgt”

“Sm,esm,ercxen.brxd.!”eZekdzxit

“Mc,ercgr!eZercmq cremhercxebgyrercgreZecgaxelxxseomdjzs eqvmsteRcxdx
ogbesxaxdegs.en.brxd.ezsercxengrrxd,ercmq c,egbeZebgzie.xbrxdig.,ebmnx
mhercxeixrgzybegdxemhezsrxdxbrteRcxemsy.eidgolgkjezbercgrercxdxezbesm
ygo,eZehxgd,ercgrekgsermqkcercxebkmqsidxyt”

“Ocmeogbecx,ercxs,egsieocgreogbeczbemlfxkrezseixbxdrzs eNzbb
Bqrcxdygsi?”

Rcxeuqxbrzmseogbecgdiy.emqremhen.enmqrc,egsieCmynxbecgiesmre.xremvxsxi
czbeyzvbermedxvy.,eocxseoxecxgdiegecxga.ehmmrhgyyezsercxevgbbg xegsieg
rgvegrercxeimmdt

“Rczbezbercxe zdy’bebrxvhgrcxd,eNdteFgnxbeOzsizlgsj,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Cx
cgbeodzrrxsermenxermebg.ercgrecxeomqyielxecxdxegrebzpteKmnxezs!”

Rcxengseocmexsrxdxieogbegebrqdi.,enziiyx-bzwxiehxyymo,ebmnxerczdr.
.xgdbemheg x,ekyxgs-bcgaxs,egsiebgyymo-bjzssxi,eozrcegelygsi,
zsbzsqgrzs engssxd,egsiegevgzdemheomsixdhqyy.ebcgdvegsievxsxrdgrzs 
 dx.ex.xbteCxebcmregeuqxbrzmszs e ygskxegrexgkcemheqb,evygkxieczbebczs.
rmv-cgreqvmsercxebzixlmgdi,egsieozrcegebyz crelmoebziyxieimosezsrmercx
sxgdxbrekcgzdt

“ mmi-xaxszs ,eNdteFgnxbeOzsizlgsj,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Zerczsjercgrerczb
r.vxodzrrxseyxrrxdezbehdmne.mq,ezseoczkce.mqengixegsegvvmzsrnxsreozrc
nxehmdebzpem’kymkj?”

“.xb,ebzdteZegneghdgziercgreZegnegeyzrryxeygrx,elqreZegnesmreuqzrxen.
mosengbrxd,e.mqejsmoteZegnebmdd.ercgreNzbbeBqrcxdygsiecgberdmqlyxie.mq
glmqrerczbeyzrryxengrrxd,ehmdeZerczsjezrezbehgdelxrrxdesmrermeogbc
yzsxsemhercxebmdrezsevqlyzkteZreogbeuqzrxeg gzsbren.eozbcxbercgrebcx
kgnx,elqrebcxezbegeaxd.expkzrglyx,eznvqybzaxe zdy,egbe.mqeng.ecgax
smrzkxi,egsiebcxezbesmrexgbzy.ekmsrdmyyxieocxsebcxecgbengixeqvecxdenzsi
msegevmzsrteMhekmqdbx,eZeiziesmrenzsie.mqebmenqkc,egbe.mqegdxesmr
kmssxkrxieozrcercxemhhzkzgyevmyzkx,elqrezrezbesmrevyxgbgsrermecgaxeg
hgnzy.enzbhmdrqsxeyzjxerczbesmzbxiegldmgiteLxbzixb,ezrezbegeqbxyxbb
xpvxsbx,ehmdecmoekmqyie.mqevmbbzly.ehzsierczbeCmbnxdeGs xy?”

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,”ebgzieCmynxbeuqzxry.;e“Zecgaxexaxd.edxgbmsermelxyzxax
rcgreZeozyyebqkkxxiezseizbkmaxdzs eNdteCmbnxdeGs xyt”

NdteOzsizlgsje gaxegeazmyxsrebrgdregsieidmvvxieczbe ymaxbte“Zegn
ixyz crxiermecxgdezr,”ecxebgzit

“Zrezbegekqdzmqberczs ,”edxngdjxieCmynxb,e“rcgreger.vxodzrxdecgbedxgyy.
uqzrxegbenqkcezsizaziqgyzr.egbegengs’becgsiodzrzs teQsyxbbercx.egdx
uqzrxesxo,esmeromemhercxneodzrxexpgkry.egyzjxteBmnxeyxrrxdbe xrenmdx
omdsercgsemrcxdb,egsiebmnxeoxgdemsy.emsemsxebzixteSmo,e.mqedxngdjezs
rczbesmrxemhe.mqdb,eNdteOzsizlgsj,ercgrezsexaxd.ekgbxercxdxezbebmnx
yzrryxebyqddzs emaxdemhercxe‘x,’egsiegebyz creixhxkrezsercxergzyemhercx
‘dt’eRcxdxegdxehmqdrxxsemrcxdekcgdgkrxdzbrzkb,elqrercmbxegdxercxenmdx
mlazmqbt”

“Oxeimegyyemqdekmddxbvmsixskxeozrcerczbengkczsxegrercxemhhzkx,egsiesm
imqlrezrezbegeyzrryxeomds,”emqdeazbzrmdegsboxdxi,e ygskzs ejxxsy.egr
Cmynxbeozrceczbeldz creyzrryxex.xbt

“GsiesmoeZeozyyebcmoe.mqeocgrezbedxgyy.egeaxd.ezsrxdxbrzs ebrqi.,eNdt
Ozsizlgsj,”eCmynxbekmsrzsqxite“Zerczsjemheodzrzs egsmrcxdeyzrryx
nmsm dgvcebmnxemhercxbxeig.bemsercxer.vxodzrxdegsiezrbedxygrzmserm
kdznxteZrezbegebqlfxkrermeoczkceZecgaxeixamrxiebmnxeyzrryxegrrxsrzmsteZ
cgaxecxdxehmqdeyxrrxdbeoczkcevqdvmdrermekmnxehdmnercxenzbbzs engsteRcx.
gdxegyyer.vxodzrrxsteZsexgkcekgbx,esmremsy.egdxercxe‘x’b’ebyqddxiegsi
rcxe‘d’b’ergzyyxbb,elqre.mqeozyyemlbxdax,ezhe.mqekgdxermeqbxen.
ng szh.zs eyxsb,ercgrercxehmqdrxxsemrcxdekcgdgkrxdzbrzkbermeoczkceZ
cgaxegyyqixiegdxercxdxegbeoxyyt”

NdteOzsizlgsjebvdgs emqremheczbekcgzdegsievzkjxieqveczbecgrte“Zekgssmr
ogbrxerznxemaxderczbebmdremhehgsrgbrzkergyj,eNdteCmynxb,”ecxebgzite“Zh
.mqekgsekgrkcercxengs,ekgrkceczn,egsieyxrenxejsmoeocxse.mqecgaxeimsx
zrt”

“Kxdrgzsy.,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebrxvvzs emaxdegsierqdszs ercxejx.ezsercx
immdte“Zeyxre.mqejsmo,ercxs,ercgreZecgaxekgq creczn!”

“Ocgr!eocxdx?”ebcmqrxieNdteOzsizlgsj,erqdszs eoczrxermeczbeyzvbegsi
 ygskzs eglmqreczneyzjxegedgrezsegerdgvt

“Mc,ezreoms’reim—dxgyy.ezreoms’r,”ebgzieCmynxbebqgaxy.te“Rcxdxezbesm
vmbbzlyxe xrrzs emqremhezr,eNdteOzsizlgsjteZrezbeuqzrxermmerdgsbvgdxsr,
gsiezreogbegeaxd.elgiekmnvyznxsreocxse.mqebgziercgrezreogbeznvmbbzlyx
hmdenxermebmyaxebmebznvyxegeuqxbrzmsteRcgr’bedz cr!eBzreimosegsieyxreqb
rgyjezremaxdt”

Mqdeazbzrmdekmyygvbxiezsrmegekcgzd,eozrcege cgbry.ehgkxegsiege yzrrxd
mhenmzbrqdxemseczbeldmote“Zr—zr’besmregkrzmsglyx,”ecxebrgnnxdxit

“Zegneaxd.enqkceghdgziercgrezrezbesmrteLqrelxroxxsemqdbxyaxb,
Ozsizlgsj,ezreogbegbekdqxyegsiebxyhzbcegsiecxgdryxbbegerdzkjezsegevxrr.
og.egbexaxdekgnxelxhmdxenxteSmo,eyxrenxefqbredqsemaxdercxekmqdbxemh
xaxsrb,egsie.mqeozyyekmsrdgizkrenxezheZe meodms t”

Rcxengsebgrecqiiyxieqvezseczbekcgzd,eozrceczbecxgiebqsjeqvmseczb
ldxgbr,eyzjxemsxeocmezbeqrrxdy.ekdqbcxiteCmynxbebrqkjeczbehxxreqvems
rcxekmdsxdemhercxengsrxyvzxkxegsi,eyxgszs elgkjeozrceczbecgsibezseczb
vmkjxrb,elx gsergyjzs ,edgrcxdermecznbxyh,egbezrebxxnxi,ercgsermeqbt

“Rcxengsengddzxiegeomngseaxd.enqkcemyixdercgsecznbxyhehmdecxdenmsx.,”
bgziecx,e“gsiecxexsfm.xiercxeqbxemhercxenmsx.emhercxeigq crxdegbeyms 
gbebcxeyzaxieozrcercxnteZreogbegekmsbzixdglyxebqn,ehmdevxmvyxezsercxzd
vmbzrzms,egsiercxeymbbemhezreomqyiecgaxengixegebxdzmqbeizhhxdxskxteZr
ogbeomdrcegsexhhmdrermevdxbxdaxezrteRcxeigq crxdeogbemhege mmi,egnzglyx
izbvmbzrzms,elqreghhxkrzmsgrxegsieogdn-cxgdrxiezsecxdeog.b,ebmercgrezr
ogbexazixsrercgreozrcecxdehgzdevxdbmsgyegiagsrg xb,egsiecxdeyzrryx
zskmnx,ebcxeomqyiesmrelxegyymoxiermedxngzsebzs yxeyms teSmoecxd
ngddzg xeomqyienxgs,emhekmqdbx,ercxeymbbemhegecqsidxiege.xgd,ebmeocgr
imxbecxdebrxvhgrcxdeimermevdxaxsrezr?eCxergjxbercxemlazmqbekmqdbxemh
jxxvzs ecxdegrecmnxegsiehmdlziizs ecxdermebxxjercxekmnvgs.emhevxmvyxemh
cxdemoseg xteLqrebmmsecxehmqsiercgrercgreomqyiesmregsboxdehmdxaxdteBcx
lxkgnxedxbrzax,ezsbzbrxieqvmsecxdedz crb,egsiehzsgyy.egssmqskxiecxd
vmbzrzaxezsrxsrzmsemhe mzs ermegekxdrgzselgyyteOcgreimxbecxdekyxaxd
brxvhgrcxdeimercxs?eCxekmskxzaxbegsezixgenmdxekdxizrglyxermeczbecxgi
rcgsermeczbecxgdrteOzrcercxekmsszagskxegsiegbbzbrgskxemheczbeozhxecx
izb qzbxiecznbxyh,ekmaxdxiercmbxejxxsex.xbeozrcerzsrxie ygbbxb,engbjxi
rcxehgkxeozrcegenmqbrgkcxegsiegevgzdemhelqbc.eoczbjxdb,ebqsjercgrekyxgd
amzkxezsrmegsezsbzsqgrzs eoczbvxd,egsieimqly.ebxkqdxemsegkkmqsremhercx
 zdy’bebcmdrebz cr,ecxegvvxgdbegbeNdteCmbnxdeGs xy,egsiejxxvbemhhemrcxd
ymaxdbel.engjzs eymaxecznbxyht”

“Zreogbemsy.egefmjxegrehzdbr,”e dmgsxiemqdeazbzrmdte“Oxesxaxdercmq cr
rcgrebcxeomqyiecgaxelxxsebmekgddzxiegog.t”

“Axd.eyzjxy.esmrteCmoxaxdercgreng.elx,ercxe.mqs eygi.eogbeaxd.
ixkzixiy.ekgddzxiegog.,egsi,ecgazs euqzrxengixeqvecxdenzsiercgrecxd
brxvhgrcxdeogbezseHdgskx,ercxebqbvzkzmsemherdxgkcxd.esxaxdehmdegs
zsbrgsrexsrxdxiecxdenzsiteBcxeogbehygrrxdxiel.ercxe xsryxngs’b
grrxsrzmsb,egsiercxexhhxkreogbezskdxgbxiel.ercxeymqiy.expvdxbbxi
ginzdgrzmsemhecxdenmrcxdteRcxseNdteGs xyelx gsermekgyy,ehmdezreogb
mlazmqbercgrercxengrrxdebcmqyielxevqbcxiegbehgdegbezreomqyie mezheg
dxgyexhhxkreoxdxermelxevdmiqkxiteRcxdxeoxdxenxxrzs b,egsiegs
xs g xnxsr,eoczkceomqyiehzsgyy.ebxkqdxercxe zdy’beghhxkrzmsbehdmn
rqdszs ermogdibegs.msxexybxteLqrercxeixkxvrzmsekmqyiesmrelxejxvreqv
hmdxaxdteRcxbxevdxrxsixiefmqdsx.bermeHdgskxeoxdxedgrcxdekqnldmqbteRcx
rczs ermeimeogbekyxgdy.ermeldzs ercxelqbzsxbbermegsexsiezsebqkceg
idgngrzkengssxdercgrezreomqyieyxgaxegevxdngsxsreznvdxbbzmseqvmsercx
.mqs eygi.’benzsiegsievdxaxsrecxdehdmneymmjzs eqvmsegs.emrcxdebqzrmd
hmdebmnxerznxermekmnxteCxskxercmbxeamobemhehzixyzr.expgkrxieqvmseg
Rxbrgnxsr,egsiecxskxegybmercxegyyqbzmsbermegevmbbzlzyzr.emhebmnxrczs 
cgvvxszs emsercxeaxd.enmdszs emhercxeoxiizs teFgnxbeOzsizlgsjeozbcxi
NzbbeBqrcxdygsiermelxebmelmqsiermeCmbnxdeGs xy,egsiebmeqskxdrgzsegberm
czbehgrx,ercgrehmderxse.xgdbermekmnx,egregs.edgrx,ebcxeomqyiesmreyzbrxs
rmegsmrcxdengsteGbehgdegbercxekcqdkceimmdecxeldmq crecxd,egsiercxs,egb
cxekmqyie mesmehgdrcxd,ecxekmsaxszxsry.eagszbcxiegog.el.ercxemyierdzkj
mhebrxvvzs ezsegremsxeimmdemhegehmqd-ocxxyxdegsiemqregrercxemrcxdteZ
rczsjercgreogbercxekcgzsemhexaxsrb,eNdteOzsizlgsj!”

Mqdeazbzrmdecgiedxkmaxdxiebmnxrczs emheczbegbbqdgskxeoczyxeCmynxbecgi
lxxsergyjzs ,egsiecxedmbxehdmneczbekcgzdesmoeozrcegekmyiebsxxdeqvmseczb
vgyxehgkxt

“Zreng.elxebm,emdezreng.esmr,eNdteCmynxb,”ebgziecx,e“lqrezhe.mqegdxebm
axd.ebcgdve.mqemq crermelxebcgdvexsmq cermejsmoercgrezrezbe.mqeocmegdx
ldxgjzs ercxeygoesmo,egsiesmrenxteZecgaxeimsxesmrczs egkrzmsglyxehdmn
rcxehzdbr,elqregbeyms egbe.mqejxxvercgreimmdeymkjxie.mqeyg.e.mqdbxyh
mvxsermegsegkrzmsehmdegbbgqyregsiezyyx gyekmsbrdgzsrt”

“Rcxeygoekgssmr,egbe.mqebg.,ermqkce.mq,”ebgzieCmynxb,eqsymkjzs egsi
rcdmozs emvxsercxeimmd,e“.xrercxdxesxaxdeogbegengseocmeixbxdaxi
vqszbcnxsrenmdxteZhercxe.mqs eygi.ecgbegeldmrcxdemdegehdzxsi,ecxemq cr
rmeyg.egeoczvegkdmbbe.mqdebcmqyixdbteL.eFmax!”ecxekmsrzsqxi,ehyqbczs 
qvegrercxebz cremhercxelzrrxdebsxxdeqvmsercxengs’behgkx,e“zrezbesmr
vgdremhen.eiqrzxbermen.ekyzxsr,elqrecxdx’begecqsrzs ekdmvecgsi.,egsieZ
rczsjeZebcgyyefqbrerdxgren.bxyherm—”eCxermmjeromebozhrebrxvbermercx
oczv,elqrelxhmdxecxekmqyie dgbvezrercxdxeogbegeozyiekygrrxdemhebrxvb
qvmsercxebrgzdb,ercxecxga.ecgyyeimmdelgs xi,egsiehdmnercxeozsimoeox
kmqyiebxxeNdteFgnxbeOzsizlgsjedqsszs egrercxermvemheczbebvxxieimosercx
dmgit

“Rcxdx’begekmyi-lymmixiebkmqsidxy!”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs ,egbecxercdxo
cznbxyheimosezsrmeczbekcgzdemskxenmdxte“Rcgrehxyymoeozyyedzbxehdmn
kdznxermekdznxeqsrzyecxeimxbebmnxrczs eaxd.elgi,egsiexsibemsege gyymobt
Rcxekgbxecgb,ezsebmnxedxbvxkrb,elxxsesmrexsrzdxy.eixamziemhezsrxdxbrt”

“Zekgssmresmoexsrzdxy.ebxxegyyercxebrxvbemhe.mqdedxgbmszs ,”eZ
dxngdjxit

“Oxyy,emhekmqdbxezreogbemlazmqbehdmnercxehzdbrercgrerczbeNdteCmbnxd
Gs xyenqbrecgaxebmnxebrdms emlfxkrehmdeczbekqdzmqbekmsiqkr,egsiezreogb
xuqgyy.ekyxgdercgrercxemsy.engseocmedxgyy.evdmhzrxiel.ercxezskzixsr,egb
hgdegbeoxekmqyiebxx,eogbercxebrxvhgrcxdteRcxsercxehgkrercgrercxeromenxs
oxdxesxaxderm xrcxd,elqrercgrercxemsxegyog.begvvxgdxieocxsercxemrcxd
ogbegog.,eogbebq  xbrzaxteBmeoxdxercxerzsrxiebvxkrgkyxbegsiercxekqdzmqb
amzkx,eoczkcelmrceczsrxiegregeizb qzbx,egbeiziercxelqbc.eoczbjxdbteN.
bqbvzkzmsbeoxdxegyyekmshzdnxiel.eczbevxkqyzgdegkrzmsezser.vxodzrzs eczb
bz sgrqdx,eoczkc,emhekmqdbx,ezshxddxiercgreczbecgsiodzrzs eogbebm
hgnzyzgdermecxdercgrebcxeomqyiedxkm szbxexaxsercxebngyyxbrebgnvyxemh
zrte.mqebxxegyyercxbxezbmygrxiehgkrb,erm xrcxdeozrcengs.enzsmdemsxb,
gyyevmzsrxiezsercxebgnxeizdxkrzmst”

“Gsiecmoeizie.mqeaxdzh.ercxn?”

“Cgazs emskxebvmrrxien.engs,ezreogbexgb.erme xrekmddmlmdgrzmsteZejsxo
rcxehzdnehmdeoczkcerczbengseomdjxiteCgazs ergjxsercxevdzsrxi
ixbkdzvrzmsteZexyznzsgrxiexaxd.rczs ehdmnezreoczkcekmqyielxercxedxbqyr
mhegeizb qzbx—rcxeoczbjxdb,ercxe ygbbxb,ercxeamzkx,egsieZebxsrezrerm
rcxehzdn,eozrcegedxuqxbrercgrercx.eomqyiezshmdnenxeocxrcxdezregsboxdxi
rmercxeixbkdzvrzmsemhegs.emhercxzderdgaxyyxdbteZecgiegydxgi.esmrzkxi
rcxevxkqyzgdzrzxbemhercxer.vxodzrxd,egsieZeodmrxermercxengsecznbxyhegr
czbelqbzsxbbegiidxbbegbjzs ecznezhecxeomqyiekmnxecxdxteGbeZexpvxkrxi,
czbedxvy.eogber.vxodzrrxsegsiedxaxgyxiercxebgnxerdzazgyelqr
kcgdgkrxdzbrzkeixhxkrbteRcxebgnxevmbreldmq crenxegeyxrrxdehdmn
Oxbrcmqbxe&eNgdlgsj,emheHxskcqdkceBrdxxr,ermebg.ercgrercxeixbkdzvrzms
rgyyzxiezsexaxd.edxbvxkreozrcercgremhercxzdexnvym.é,eFgnxbeOzsizlgsjt
_Amzyàermqr_!”

“GsieNzbbeBqrcxdygsi?”

“ZheZerxyyecxdebcxeozyyesmrelxyzxaxenxte.mqeng.edxnxnlxdercxemyi
Vxdbzgsebg.zs ,e‘Rcxdxezbeigs xdehmdeczneocmergjxrcercxerz xdekql,egsi
igs xdegybmehmdeocmbmebsgrkcxbegeixyqbzmsehdmnegeomngst’eRcxdxezbegb
nqkcebxsbxezseCghzwegbezseCmdgkx,egsiegbenqkcejsmoyxi xemhercxeomdyit”



eZAteRCXeLMBKMNLXeAGYYX.eN.BRXD.

Oxeoxdxebxgrxiegreldxgjhgbremsxenmdszs ,en.eozhxegsieZ,eocxsercxengzi
ldmq crezsegerxyx dgnteZreogbehdmneBcxdymkjeCmynxbegsiedgsezserczbeog.:

“Cgaxe.mqegekmqvyxemheig.bermebvgdx?eCgaxefqbrelxxseozdxiehmdehdmnercx
oxbremheXs ygsiezsekmssxkrzmseozrceLmbkmnlxeAgyyx.erdg xi.teBcgyyelx
 ygiezhe.mqeozyyekmnxeozrcenxteGzdegsiebkxsxd.evxdhxkrteYxgax
Vgiizs rmsel.ercxe11:15t”

“Ocgreime.mqebg.,eixgd?”ebgzien.eozhx,eymmjzs egkdmbbegrenxte“Ozyye.mq
 m?”

“Zedxgyy.eims’rejsmoeocgrermebg.teZecgaxegehgzdy.eyms eyzbregr
vdxbxsrt”

“Mc,eGsbrdqrcxdeomqyieime.mqdeomdjehmde.mqte.mqecgaxelxxseymmjzs eg
yzrryxevgyxeygrxy.teZerczsjercgrercxekcgs xeomqyieime.mqe mmi,egsie.mq
gdxegyog.bebmezsrxdxbrxiezseNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb’ekgbxbt”

“Zebcmqyielxeqs dgrxhqyezheZeoxdxesmr,ebxxzs eocgreZe gzsxiercdmq cemsx
mhercxn,”eZegsboxdxite“LqrezheZegnerme m,eZenqbrevgkjegremskx,ehmdeZ
cgaxemsy.ecgyhegsecmqdt”

N.expvxdzxskxemhekgnveyzhxezseGh cgszbrgsecgiegreyxgbrecgiercxexhhxkr
mhengjzs enxegevdmnvregsiedxgi.erdgaxyyxdteN.eogsrbeoxdxehxoegsi
bznvyx,ebmercgrezseyxbbercgsercxerznxebrgrxieZeogbezsegekgleozrcen.
agyzbx,edgrryzs egog.ermeVgiizs rmseBrgrzmsteBcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbevgkzs 
qvegsieimosercxevygrhmdn,eczbergyy,e gqsrehz qdxengixexaxse gqsrxdegsi
rgyyxdel.eczbeyms e dx.erdgaxyyzs -kymgjegsiekymbx-hzrrzs ekymrcekgvt

“Zrezbedxgyy.eaxd.e mmiemhe.mqermekmnx,eOgrbms,”ebgziecxte“Zrengjxbeg
kmsbzixdglyxeizhhxdxskxermenx,ecgazs ebmnxmsxeozrcenxemseocmneZekgs
rcmdmq cy.edxy.teYmkgyegziezbegyog.bexzrcxdeomdrcyxbbemdexybxelzgbbxit
Zhe.mqeozyyejxxvercxeromekmdsxdebxgrbeZebcgyye xrercxerzkjxrbt”

Oxecgiercxekgddzg xermemqdbxyaxbebgaxehmdegseznnxsbxeyzrrxdemhevgvxdb
oczkceCmynxbecgieldmq creozrcecznteGnms ercxbxecxedqnng xiegsiedxgi,
ozrcezsrxdagybemhesmrx-rgjzs egsiemhenxizrgrzms,eqsrzyeoxeoxdxevgbr
Dxgizs teRcxsecxebqiixsy.edmyyxiercxnegyyezsrmege z gsrzkelgyyegsi
rmbbxiercxneqvemsrmercxedgkjt

“Cgaxe.mqecxgdiegs.rczs emhercxekgbx?”ecxegbjxit

“SmregeomditeZecgaxesmrebxxsegevgvxdehmdebmnxeig.bt”

“RcxeYmsimsevdxbbecgbesmrecgieaxd.ehqyyegkkmqsrbteZecgaxefqbrelxxs
ymmjzs ercdmq cegyyercxedxkxsrevgvxdbezsemdixdermengbrxdercx
vgdrzkqygdbteZrebxxnb,ehdmneocgreZe grcxd,ermelxemsxemhercmbxebznvyx
kgbxbeoczkcegdxebmexprdxnxy.eizhhzkqyrt”

“Rcgrebmqsibegeyzrryxevgdgimpzkgyt”

“Lqrezrezbevdmhmqsiy.erdqxteBzs qygdzr.ezbegynmbrezsagdzgly.egekyqxt
Rcxenmdxehxgrqdxyxbbegsiekmnnmsvygkxegekdznxezb,ercxenmdxeizhhzkqyrezr
zbermeldzs ezrecmnxteZserczbekgbx,ecmoxaxd,ercx.ecgaxexbrglyzbcxieg
axd.ebxdzmqbekgbxeg gzsbrercxebmsemhercxenqdixdxiengst”

“Zrezbegenqdixd,ercxs?”

“Oxyy,ezrezbekmsfxkrqdxiermelxebmteZebcgyyergjxesmrczs ehmde dgsrxi
qsrzyeZecgaxercxemvvmdrqszr.emheymmjzs evxdbmsgyy.ezsrmezrteZeozyy
xpvygzsercxebrgrxemherczs berme.mq,egbehgdegbeZecgaxelxxseglyxerm
qsixdbrgsiezr,ezsegeaxd.ehxoeomdibt

“LmbkmnlxeAgyyx.ezbegekmqsrd.eizbrdzkresmreaxd.ehgdehdmneDmbb,ezs
CxdxhmdibczdxteRcxeygd xbreygsixievdmvdzxrmdezsercgrevgdrezbegeNdteFmcs
Rqdsxd,eocmengixeczbenmsx.ezseGqbrdgyzgegsiedxrqdsxiebmnxe.xgdbeg merm
rcxemyiekmqsrd.teMsxemhercxehgdnbeoczkcecxecxyi,ercgremheCgrcxdyx.,eogb
yxrermeNdteKcgdyxbeNkKgdrc.,eocmeogbegybmegsexp-GqbrdgyzgsteRcxenxsecgi
jsmosexgkcemrcxdezsercxekmymszxb,ebmercgrezreogbesmreqssgrqdgyercgr
ocxsercx.ekgnxermebxrryxeimosercx.ebcmqyieimebmegbesxgdexgkcemrcxdegb
vmbbzlyxteRqdsxdeogbegvvgdxsry.ercxedzkcxdengs,ebmeNkKgdrc.elxkgnxeczb
rxsgsrelqrebrzyyedxngzsxi,ezrebxxnb,eqvmserxdnbemhevxdhxkrexuqgyzr.,egb
rcx.eoxdxehdxuqxsry.erm xrcxdteNkKgdrc.ecgiemsxebms,egeygiemhexz crxxs,
gsieRqdsxdecgiegsemsy.eigq crxdemhercxebgnxeg x,elqresxzrcxdemhercxn
cgieozaxbeyzazs teRcx.egvvxgdermecgaxegamzixiercxebmkzxr.emhercx
sxz clmqdzs eXs yzbcehgnzyzxbegsiermecgaxeyxiedxrzdxieyzaxb,ercmq c
lmrcercxeNkKgdrc.beoxdxehmsiemhebvmdregsieoxdxehdxuqxsry.ebxxsegrercx
dgkx-nxxrzs bemhercxesxz clmqdcmmiteNkKgdrc.ejxvreromebxdagsrb—gengs
gsiege zdyteRqdsxdecgiegekmsbzixdglyxecmqbxcmyi,ebmnxecgyh-imwxsegrercx
yxgbrteRcgrezbegbenqkcegbeZecgaxelxxseglyxerme grcxdeglmqrercx
hgnzyzxbteSmoehmdercxehgkrbt

“MseFqsxe3di,ercgrezb,emseNmsig.eygbr,eNkKgdrc.eyxhreczbecmqbxegr
Cgrcxdyx.eglmqrercdxxezsercxeghrxdsmmsegsieogyjxieimosermercxeLmbkmnlx
Vmmy,eoczkcezbegebngyyeygjxehmdnxiel.ercxebvdxgizs emqremhercxebrdxgn
oczkcedqsbeimosercxeLmbkmnlxeAgyyx.teCxecgielxxsemqreozrceczb
bxdazs -ngsezsercxenmdszs egreDmbb,egsiecxecgiermyiercxengsercgrecx
nqbrecqdd.,egbecxecgiegsegvvmzsrnxsremheznvmdrgskxermejxxvegrercdxxt
Hdmnercgregvvmzsrnxsrecxesxaxdekgnxelgkjegyzaxt

“HdmneCgrcxdyx.eHgdncmqbxermercxeLmbkmnlxeVmmyezbegeuqgdrxdemhegenzyx,
gsieromevxmvyxebgoecznegbecxevgbbxiemaxderczbe dmqsiteMsxeogbegsemyi
omngs,eocmbxesgnxezbesmrenxsrzmsxi,egsiercxemrcxdeogbeOzyyzgneKdmoixd,
ge gnx-jxxvxdezsercxexnvym.emheNdteRqdsxdteLmrcercxbxeozrsxbbxbeixvmbx
rcgreNdteNkKgdrc.eogbeogyjzs egymsxteRcxe gnx-jxxvxdegiibercgreozrczseg
hxoenzsqrxbemheczbebxxzs eNdteNkKgdrc.evgbbecxecgiebxxseczbebms,eNdt
FgnxbeNkKgdrc.,e mzs ercxebgnxeog.eozrcege qseqsixdeczbegdnteRmercx
lxbremheczbelxyzxh,ercxehgrcxdeogbegkrqgyy.ezsebz cregrercxerznx,egsi
rcxebmseogbehmyymozs ecznteCxercmq cresmenmdxemhercxengrrxdeqsrzyecx
cxgdiezsercxexaxszs emhercxerdg xi.ercgrecgiemkkqddxit

“RcxeromeNkKgdrc.beoxdxebxxseghrxdercxerznxeocxseOzyyzgneKdmoixd,ercx
 gnx-jxxvxd,eymbrebz cremhercxnteRcxeLmbkmnlxeVmmyezberczkjy.eommixi
dmqsi,eozrcefqbregehdzs xemhe dgbbegsiemhedxxibedmqsiercxexi xteGe zdy
mhehmqdrxxs,eVgrzxskxeNmdgs,eocmezbercxeigq crxdemhercxeymi x-jxxvxdemh
rcxeLmbkmnlxeAgyyx.exbrgrx,eogbezsemsxemhercxeommibevzkjzs ehymoxdbt
Bcxebrgrxbercgreoczyxebcxeogbercxdxebcxebgo,egrercxelmdixdemhercxeommi
gsiekymbxel.ercxeygjx,eNdteNkKgdrc.egsieczbebms,egsiercgrercx.egvvxgdxi
rmelxecgazs egeazmyxsreuqgddxyteBcxecxgdieNdteNkKgdrc.ercxexyixdeqbzs 
axd.ebrdms eygs qg xermeczbebms,egsiebcxebgoercxeygrrxdedgzbxeqveczb
cgsiegbezhermebrdzjxeczbehgrcxdteBcxeogbebmehdz crxsxiel.ercxzd
azmyxskxercgrebcxedgsegog.egsiermyiecxdenmrcxdeocxsebcxedxgkcxiecmnx
rcgrebcxecgieyxhrercxeromeNkKgdrc.beuqgddxyyzs esxgdeLmbkmnlxeVmmy,egsi
rcgrebcxeogbeghdgziercgrercx.eoxdxe mzs ermehz crteBcxecgiecgdiy.ebgzi
rcxeomdibeocxse.mqs eNdteNkKgdrc.ekgnxedqsszs eqvermercxeymi xermebg.
rcgrecxecgiehmqsieczbehgrcxdeixgiezsercxeommi,egsiermegbjehmdercxecxyv
mhercxeymi x-jxxvxdteCxeogbenqkcexpkzrxi,eozrcmqrexzrcxdeczbe qsemdeczb
cgr,egsieczbedz crecgsiegsiebyxxaxeoxdxemlbxdaxiermelxebrgzsxieozrc
hdxbcelymmiteMsehmyymozs ecznercx.ehmqsiercxeixgielmi.ebrdxrkcxiemqr
qvmsercxe dgbbelxbzixercxevmmyteRcxecxgiecgielxxselxgrxsezsel.edxvxgrxi
lymobemhebmnxecxga.egsielyqsreoxgvmsteRcxezsfqdzxbeoxdxebqkcegbenz cr
axd.eoxyyecgaxelxxsezshyzkrxiel.ercxelqrr-xsiemheczbebms’be qs,eoczkc
ogbehmqsiey.zs emsercxe dgbbeozrczsegehxoevgkxbemhercxelmi.teQsixd
rcxbxekzdkqnbrgskxbercxe.mqs engseogbezsbrgsry.egddxbrxi,egsiegeaxdizkr
mhe‘ozyhqyenqdixd’ecgazs elxxsedxrqdsxiegrercxezsuqxbremseRqxbig.,ecx
ogbemseOxisxbig.eldmq crelxhmdxercxeng zbrdgrxbegreDmbb,eocmecgax
dxhxddxiercxekgbxermercxesxpreGbbzwxbteRcmbxegdxercxengzsehgkrbemhercx
kgbxegbercx.ekgnxemqrelxhmdxercxekmdmsxdegsiercxevmyzkx-kmqdrt”

“Zekmqyiecgdiy.ezng zsxegenmdxeignszs ekgbx,”eZedxngdjxite“Zhexaxd
kzdkqnbrgsrzgyexazixskxevmzsrxiermegekdznzsgyezreimxbebmecxdxt”

“Kzdkqnbrgsrzgyexazixskxezbegeaxd.erdzkj.erczs ,”egsboxdxieCmynxb
rcmq crhqyy.te“Zreng.ebxxnermevmzsreaxd.ebrdgz crermemsxerczs ,elqrezh
.mqebczhre.mqdemosevmzsremheazxoegeyzrryx,e.mqeng.ehzsiezrevmzsrzs ezs
gsexuqgyy.eqskmnvdmnzbzs engssxdermebmnxrczs exsrzdxy.eizhhxdxsrteZr
nqbrelxekmshxbbxi,ecmoxaxd,ercgrercxekgbxeymmjbexpkxxizs y.e dgax
g gzsbrercxe.mqs engs,egsiezrezbeaxd.evmbbzlyxercgrecxezbezsixxiercx
kqyvdzrteRcxdxegdxebxaxdgyevxmvyxezsercxesxz clmqdcmmi,ecmoxaxd,egsi
gnms ercxneNzbbeRqdsxd,ercxeigq crxdemhercxesxz clmqdzs eygsimosxd,eocm
lxyzxaxezseczbezssmkxskx,egsieocmecgaxedxrgzsxieYxbrdgix,eocmne.mqeng.
dxkmyyxkrezsekmssxkrzmseozrcercxeBrqi.ezseBkgdyxr,ermeomdjemqrercxekgbx
zseczbezsrxdxbrteYxbrdgix,elxzs edgrcxdevqwwyxi,ecgbedxhxddxiercxekgbx
rmenx,egsiecxskxezrezbercgreromenziiyx-g xie xsryxnxsegdxehy.zs 
oxbrogdiegrehzhr.enzyxbegsecmqdezsbrxgiemheuqzxry.eiz xbrzs ercxzd
ldxgjhgbrbegrecmnxt”

“Zegneghdgzi,”ebgzieZ,e“rcgrercxehgkrbegdxebmemlazmqbercgre.mqeozyy
hzsieyzrryxekdxizrermelxe gzsxiemqremherczbekgbxt”

“Rcxdxezbesmrczs enmdxeixkxvrzaxercgsegsemlazmqbehgkr,”ecxegsboxdxi,
ygq czs te“Lxbzixb,eoxeng.ekcgskxermeczreqvmsebmnxemrcxdemlazmqbehgkrb
oczkceng.ecgaxelxxsel.esmenxgsbemlazmqbermeNdteYxbrdgixte.mqejsmoenx
rmmeoxyyermerczsjercgreZegnelmgbrzs eocxseZebg.ercgreZebcgyyexzrcxd
kmshzdnemdeixbrdm.eczbercxmd.el.enxgsbeoczkcecxezbeuqzrxezskgvglyxemh
xnvym.zs ,emdexaxsemheqsixdbrgsizs teRmergjxercxehzdbrexpgnvyxermecgsi,
Zeaxd.ekyxgdy.evxdkxzaxercgrezse.mqdelxidmmnercxeozsimoezbeqvmsercx
dz cr-cgsiebzix,egsie.xreZeuqxbrzmseocxrcxdeNdteYxbrdgixeomqyiecgax
smrxiexaxsebmebxyh-xazixsregerczs egbercgrt”

“Cmoemsexgdrc—”

“N.eixgdehxyymo,eZejsmoe.mqeoxyyteZejsmoercxenzyzrgd.esxgrsxbbeoczkc
kcgdgkrxdzbxbe.mqte.mqebcgaxexaxd.enmdszs ,egsiezserczbebxgbmse.mq
bcgaxel.ercxebqsyz cr;elqrebzskxe.mqdebcgazs ezbeyxbbegsieyxbbekmnvyxrx
gbeoxe xrehgdrcxdelgkjemsercxeyxhrebzix,eqsrzyezrelxkmnxbevmbzrzaxy.
bymaxsy.egbeoxe xredmqsiercxegs yxemhercxefgo,ezrezbebqdxy.eaxd.ekyxgd
rcgrercgrebzixezbeyxbbezyyqnzsgrxiercgsercxemrcxdteZekmqyiesmrezng zsx
gengsemhe.mqdecglzrbeymmjzs egrecznbxyhezsegsexuqgyeyz cregsielxzs 
bgrzbhzxieozrcebqkcegedxbqyrteZemsy.euqmrxerczbegbegerdzazgyexpgnvyxemh
mlbxdagrzmsegsiezshxdxskxteRcxdxzseyzxben.e_nérzxd_,egsiezrezbefqbr
vmbbzlyxercgrezreng.elxemhebmnxebxdazkxezsercxezsaxbrz grzmseoczkceyzxb
lxhmdxeqbteRcxdxegdxemsxemderomenzsmdevmzsrbeoczkceoxdxeldmq cremqrezs
rcxezsuqxbr,egsieoczkcegdxeomdrcekmsbzixdzs t”

“Ocgregdxercx.?”

“Zregvvxgdbercgreczbegddxbreiziesmrergjxevygkxegremskx,elqreghrxdercx
dxrqdsermeCgrcxdyx.eHgdnteMsercxezsbvxkrmdemhekmsbrglqygd.ezshmdnzs 
cznercgrecxeogbegevdzbmsxd,ecxedxngdjxiercgrecxeogbesmrebqdvdzbxierm
cxgdezr,egsiercgrezreogbesmenmdxercgseczbeixbxdrbteRczbemlbxdagrzmsemh
czbecgiercxesgrqdgyexhhxkremhedxnmazs egs.erdgkxbemheimqlreoczkcenz cr
cgaxedxngzsxiezsercxenzsibemhercxekmdmsxd’befqd.t”

“Zreogbegekmshxbbzms,”eZexfgkqygrxit

“Sm,ehmdezreogbehmyymoxiel.egevdmrxbrgrzmsemhezssmkxskxt”

“Kmnzs emsercxermvemhebqkcegeignszs ebxdzxbemhexaxsrb,ezreogbegreyxgbr
genmbrebqbvzkzmqbedxngdjt”

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“zrezbercxeldz crxbredzhreoczkceZekgs
grevdxbxsrebxxezsercxekymqibteCmoxaxdezssmkxsrecxenz crelx,ecxekmqyi
smrelxebqkcegseglbmyqrxeznlxkzyxegbesmrermebxxercgrercxekzdkqnbrgskxb
oxdxeaxd.elygkjeg gzsbrecznteCgiecxegvvxgdxiebqdvdzbxiegreczbemos
gddxbr,emdehxz sxiezsiz sgrzmsegrezr,eZebcmqyiecgaxeymmjxieqvmsezregb
cz cy.ebqbvzkzmqb,elxkgqbxebqkcebqdvdzbxemdegs xdeomqyiesmrelxesgrqdgy
qsixdercxekzdkqnbrgskxb,egsie.xrenz cregvvxgdermelxercxelxbrevmyzk.erm
gebkcxnzs engsteCzbehdgsjegkkxvrgskxemhercxebzrqgrzmsengdjbecznegb
xzrcxdegsezssmkxsrengs,emdexybxegbegengsemhekmsbzixdglyxebxyh-dxbrdgzsr
gsiehzdnsxbbteGbermeczbedxngdjeglmqreczbeixbxdrb,ezreogbegybmesmr
qssgrqdgyezhe.mqekmsbzixdercgrecxebrmmielxbzixercxeixgielmi.emheczb
hgrcxd,egsiercgrercxdxezbesmeimqlrercgrecxecgiercgreaxd.eig.ebmehgd
hmd mrrxseczbehzyzgyeiqr.egbermelgsi.eomdibeozrceczn,egsiexaxs,
gkkmdizs ermercxeyzrryxe zdyeocmbxexazixskxezbebmeznvmdrgsr,ermedgzbx
czbecgsiegbezhermebrdzjxecznteRcxebxyh-dxvdmgkcegsiekmsrdzrzmseoczkc
gdxeizbvyg.xiezseczbedxngdjegvvxgdermenxermelxercxebz sbemhegecxgyrc.
nzsiedgrcxdercgsemhege qzyr.emsxt”

Zebcmmjen.ecxgite“Ngs.enxsecgaxelxxsecgs xiemsehgdebyz crxdexazixskx,”
Zedxngdjxit

“Bmercx.ecgaxteGsiengs.enxsecgaxelxxseodms hqyy.ecgs xit”

“Ocgrezbercxe.mqs engs’bemosegkkmqsremhercxengrrxd?”

“Zrezb,eZegneghdgzi,esmreaxd.exskmqdg zs ermeczbebqvvmdrxdb,ercmq c
rcxdxegdxemsxemderomevmzsrbezsezreoczkcegdxebq  xbrzaxte.mqeozyyehzsi
zrecxdx,egsieng.edxgiezrehmde.mqdbxyht”

Cxevzkjxiemqrehdmneczbelqsiyxegekmv.emhercxeymkgyeCxdxhmdibczdxevgvxd,
gsiecgazs erqdsxieimosercxebcxxrecxevmzsrxiemqrercxevgdg dgvcezseoczkc
rcxeqshmdrqsgrxe.mqs engsecgie zaxseczbemosebrgrxnxsremheocgrecgi
mkkqddxiteZebxrryxien.bxyheimosezsercxekmdsxdemhercxekgddzg xegsiedxgi
zreaxd.ekgdxhqyy.teZredgsezserczbeog.:

“NdteFgnxbeNkKgdrc.,ercxemsy.ebmsemhercxeixkxgbxi,eogbercxsekgyyxiegsi
 gaxexazixskxegbehmyymob:e‘Zecgielxxsegog.ehdmnecmnxehmdercdxxeig.begr
Ldzbrmy,egsiecgiemsy.efqbredxrqdsxieqvmsercxenmdszs emheygbreNmsig.,
rcxe3diteN.ehgrcxdeogbeglbxsrehdmnecmnxegrercxerznxemhen.egddzagy,egsi
Zeogbezshmdnxiel.ercxengziercgrecxecgieidzaxsemaxdermeDmbbeozrceFmcs
Kmll,ercxe dmmnteBcmdry.eghrxden.edxrqdseZecxgdiercxeocxxybemheczberdgv
zsercxe.gdi,egsi,eymmjzs emqremhen.eozsimo,eZebgoeczne xremqregsieogyj
dgvziy.emqremhercxe.gdi,ercmq ceZeogbesmregogdxezseoczkceizdxkrzmsecx
ogbe mzs teZercxsermmjen.e qsegsiebrdmyyxiemqrezsercxeizdxkrzmsemhercx
LmbkmnlxeVmmy,eozrcercxezsrxsrzmsemheazbzrzs ercxedgllzreogddxseoczkc
zbeqvmsercxemrcxdebzixteMsen.eog.eZebgoeOzyyzgneKdmoixd,ercx
 gnx-jxxvxd,egbecxecgiebrgrxiezseczbexazixskx;elqrecxezbenzbrgjxsezs
rczsjzs ercgreZeogbehmyymozs en.ehgrcxdteZecgiesmezixgercgrecxeogbezs
hdmsremhenxteOcxseglmqregecqsidxie.gdibehdmnercxevmmyeZecxgdiegekd.emh
“Kmmxx!”eoczkceogbegeqbqgyebz sgyelxroxxsen.ehgrcxdegsien.bxyhteZercxs
cqddzxiehmdogdi,egsiehmqsiecznebrgsizs el.ercxevmmyteCxegvvxgdxiermelx
nqkcebqdvdzbxiegrebxxzs enxegsiegbjxienxedgrcxdedmq cy.eocgreZeogb
imzs ercxdxteGekmsaxdbgrzmsexsbqxieoczkceyxiermecz ceomdibegsiegynmbr
rmelymob,ehmden.ehgrcxdeogbegengsemhegeaxd.eazmyxsrerxnvxdteBxxzs ercgr
czbevgbbzmseogbelxkmnzs eqs maxdsglyx,eZeyxhrecznegsiedxrqdsxiermogdib
Cgrcxdyx.eHgdnteZecgiesmre msxenmdxercgse150e.gdib,ecmoxaxd,eocxseZ
cxgdiegeczixmqbemqrkd.elxczsienx,eoczkcekgqbxienxermedqselgkjeg gzsteZ
hmqsien.ehgrcxdexpvzdzs eqvmsercxe dmqsi,eozrceczbecxgierxddzly.
zsfqdxiteZeidmvvxien.e qsegsiecxyiecznezsen.egdnb,elqrecxegynmbr
zsbrgsry.expvzdxiteZejsxyrelxbzixecznehmdebmnxenzsqrxb,egsiercxsengix
n.eog.ermeNdteRqdsxd’beymi x-jxxvxd,eczbecmqbxelxzs ercxesxgdxbr,erm
gbjehmdegbbzbrgskxteZebgoesmemsxesxgden.ehgrcxdeocxseZedxrqdsxi,egsieZ
cgaxesmezixgecmoecxekgnxel.eczbezsfqdzxbteCxeogbesmregevmvqygdengs,
lxzs ebmnxocgrekmyiegsiehmdlziizs ezseczbengssxdb,elqrecxecgi,egbehgd
gbeZejsmo,esmegkrzaxexsxnzxbteZejsmoesmrczs ehqdrcxdemhercxengrrxdt’

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eIzie.mqdehgrcxdengjxegs.ebrgrxnxsrerme.mqelxhmdxecxeizxi?

“Ozrsxbb:eCxenqnlyxiegehxoeomdib,elqreZekmqyiemsy.ekgrkcebmnxegyyqbzms
rmegedgrt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eOcgreizie.mqeqsixdbrgsiel.ercgr?

“Ozrsxbb:eZrekmsax.xiesmenxgszs ermenxteZercmq crercgrecxeogb
ixyzdzmqbt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eOcgreogbercxevmzsreqvmseoczkce.mqegsie.mqdehgrcxdecgi
rczbehzsgyeuqgddxy?

“Ozrsxbb:eZebcmqyievdxhxdesmrermegsboxdt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eZegneghdgziercgreZenqbrevdxbbezrt

“Ozrsxbb:eZrezbedxgyy.eznvmbbzlyxehmdenxermerxyye.mqteZekgsegbbqdxe.mq
rcgrezrecgbesmrczs ermeimeozrcercxebgierdg xi.eoczkcehmyymoxit

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eRcgrezbehmdercxekmqdrermeixkzixteZesxxiesmrevmzsremqrerm
.mqercgre.mqdedxhqbgyermegsboxdeozyyevdxfqizkxe.mqdekgbxekmsbzixdgly.
zsegs.ehqrqdxevdmkxxizs beoczkceng.egdzbxt

“Ozrsxbb:eZenqbrebrzyyedxhqbxt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eZeqsixdbrgsiercgrercxekd.emhe‘Kmmxx’eogbegekmnnmsebz sgy
lxroxxse.mqegsie.mqdehgrcxd?

“Ozrsxbb:eZreogbt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eCmoeogbezr,ercxs,ercgrecxeqrrxdxiezrelxhmdxecxebgoe.mq,
gsielxhmdxecxexaxsejsxoercgre.mqecgiedxrqdsxiehdmneLdzbrmy?

“Ozrsxbbe(ozrcekmsbzixdglyxekmshqbzms):eZeimesmrejsmot

“GeFqd.ngs:eIzie.mqebxxesmrczs eoczkcegdmqbxie.mqdebqbvzkzmsbeocxse.mq
dxrqdsxiemsecxgdzs ercxekd.egsiehmqsie.mqdehgrcxdehgrgyy.ezsfqdxi?

“Ozrsxbb:eSmrczs eixhzszrxt

“RcxeKmdmsxd:eOcgreime.mqenxgs?

“Ozrsxbb:eZeogbebmeizbrqdlxiegsiexpkzrxiegbeZedqbcxiemqrezsrmercxemvxs,
rcgreZekmqyierczsjemhesmrczs expkxvremhen.ehgrcxdte.xreZecgaxegeag qx
znvdxbbzmsercgregbeZedgsehmdogdiebmnxrczs eyg.eqvmsercxe dmqsiermercx
yxhremhenxteZrebxxnxiermenxermelxebmnxrczs e dx.ezsekmymqd,egekmgremh
bmnxebmdr,emdegevygzievxdcgvbteOcxseZedmbxehdmnen.ehgrcxdeZeymmjxi
dmqsiehmdezr,elqrezreogbe msxt

“‘Ime.mqenxgsercgrezreizbgvvxgdxielxhmdxe.mqeoxsrehmdecxyv?’

“‘.xb,ezreogbe msxt’

“ee‘.mqekgssmrebg.eocgrezreogb?’

“‘Sm,eZecgiegehxxyzs ebmnxrczs eogbercxdxt’

“‘Cmoehgdehdmnercxelmi.?’

“‘Geimwxse.gdibemdebmt’

“‘Gsiecmoehgdehdmnercxexi xemhercxeommi?’

“‘Glmqrercxebgnxt’

“‘Rcxsezhezreogbedxnmaxiezreogbeoczyxe.mqeoxdxeozrczsegeimwxse.gdibemh
zr?’

“‘.xb,elqreozrcen.elgkjermogdibezrt’

“Rczbekmskyqixiercxexpgnzsgrzmsemhercxeozrsxbbt”

“Zebxx,”ebgzieZegbeZe ygskxieimosercxekmyqns,e“rcgrercxekmdmsxdezseczb
kmskyqizs edxngdjbeogbedgrcxdebxaxdxeqvmse.mqs eNkKgdrc.teCxekgyyb
grrxsrzms,egsieozrcedxgbms,ermercxeizbkdxvgsk.eglmqreczbehgrcxdecgazs 
bz sgyyxiermecznelxhmdxebxxzs eczn,egybmermeczbedxhqbgyerme zaxeixrgzyb
mheczbekmsaxdbgrzmseozrceczbehgrcxd,egsieczbebzs qygdegkkmqsremheczb
hgrcxd’bei.zs eomdibteRcx.egdxegyy,egbecxedxngdjb,eaxd.enqkceg gzsbr
rcxebmst”

Cmynxbeygq cxiebmhry.ermecznbxyhegsiebrdxrkcxiecznbxyhemqreqvmsercx
kqbczmsxiebxgrte“Lmrce.mqegsiercxekmdmsxdecgaxelxxsegrebmnxevgzsb,”
bgziecx,e“rmebzs yxemqrercxeaxd.ebrdms xbrevmzsrbezsercxe.mqs engs’b
hgamqdteIms’re.mqebxxercgre.mqegyrxdsgrxy.e zaxecznekdxizrehmdecgazs 
rmmenqkcezng zsgrzmsegsiermmeyzrryx?eRmmeyzrryx,ezhecxekmqyiesmrezsaxsr
gekgqbxemheuqgddxyeoczkceomqyie zaxecznercxeb.nvgrc.emhercxefqd.;ermm
nqkc,ezhecxexamyaxiehdmneczbemosezssxdekmsbkzmqbsxbbegs.rczs ebm
_mqrdé_egbegei.zs edxhxdxskxermegedgr,egsiercxezskzixsremhercx
agszbczs ekymrcteSm,ebzd,eZebcgyyegvvdmgkcerczbekgbxehdmnercxevmzsremh
azxoercgreocgrerczbe.mqs engsebg.bezberdqx,egsieoxebcgyyebxxeoczrcxd
rcgrec.vmrcxbzbeozyyeyxgieqbteGsiesmoecxdxezben.evmkjxreVxrdgdkc,egsi
smregsmrcxdeomdiebcgyyeZebg.emherczbekgbxeqsrzyeoxegdxemsercxebkxsxemh
gkrzmsteOxeyqskcegreBozsims,egsieZebxxercgreoxebcgyyelxercxdxezseroxsr.
nzsqrxbt”

Zreogbesxgdy.ehmqdem’kymkjeocxseoxegreygbr,eghrxdevgbbzs ercdmq cercx
lxgqrzhqyeBrdmqieAgyyx.,egsiemaxdercxeldmgie yxgnzs eBxaxds,ehmqsi
mqdbxyaxbegrercxevdxrr.eyzrryxekmqsrd.-rmosemheDmbbteGeyxgs,
hxddxr-yzjxengs,ehqdrzaxegsieby.-ymmjzs ,eogbeogzrzs ehmdeqbeqvmsercx
vygrhmdnteZsebvzrxemhercxeyz creldmoseiqbrkmgregsieyxgrcxd-yx  zs b
oczkcecxeomdxezseixhxdxskxermeczbedqbrzkebqddmqsizs b,eZecgiesm
izhhzkqyr.ezsedxkm szbzs eYxbrdgix,emheBkmrygsie.gditeOzrceczneoxeidmax
rmercxeCxdxhmdieGdnbeocxdxegedmmnecgiegydxgi.elxxsexs g xiehmdeqbt

“Zecgaxemdixdxiegekgddzg x,”ebgzieYxbrdgixegbeoxebgremaxdegekqvemherxgt
“Zejsxoe.mqdexsxd xrzkesgrqdx,egsiercgre.mqeomqyiesmrelxecgvv.eqsrzy
.mqecgielxxsemsercxebkxsxemhercxekdznxt”

“Zreogbeaxd.eszkxegsiekmnvyznxsrgd.emhe.mq,”eCmynxbegsboxdxite“Zrezb
xsrzdxy.egeuqxbrzmsemhelgdmnxrdzkevdxbbqdxt”

Yxbrdgixeymmjxiebrgdryxite“Zeimesmreuqzrxehmyymo,”ecxebgzit

“Cmoezbercxe ygbb?eRoxsr.-szsx,eZebxxteSmeozsi,egsiesmregekymqiezsercx
bj.teZecgaxegekgbxhqyemhekz gdxrrxbecxdxeoczkcesxxiebnmjzs ,egsiercx
bmhgezbeaxd.enqkcebqvxdzmdermercxeqbqgyekmqsrd.ecmrxyeglmnzsgrzmsteZeim
smrerczsjercgrezrezbevdmlglyxercgreZebcgyyeqbxercxekgddzg xerm-sz crt”

Yxbrdgixeygq cxiezsiqy xsry.te“.mqecgax,esmeimqlr,egydxgi.ehmdnxie.mqd
kmskyqbzmsbehdmnercxesxobvgvxdb,”ecxebgzite“Rcxekgbxezbegbevygzsegbeg
vzjxbrghh,egsiercxenmdxemsxe mxbezsrmezrercxevygzsxdezrelxkmnxbteBrzyy,
mhekmqdbx,emsxekgs’redxhqbxegeygi.,egsiebqkcegeaxd.evmbzrzaxemsx,ermmt
Bcxecgbecxgdiemhe.mq,egsieomqyiecgaxe.mqdemvzszms,ercmq ceZedxvxgrxiy.
rmyiecxdercgrercxdxeogbesmrczs eoczkce.mqekmqyieimeoczkceZecgiesmr
gydxgi.eimsxteOc.,elyxbben.ebmqy!ecxdxezbecxdekgddzg xegrercxeimmdt”

Cxecgiecgdiy.ebvmjxselxhmdxercxdxedqbcxiezsrmercxedmmnemsxemhercxenmbr
ymaxy.e.mqs eomnxsercgreZecgaxexaxdebxxsezsen.eyzhxteCxdeazmyxrex.xb
bczszs ,ecxdeyzvbevgdrxi,egevzsjehyqbceqvmsecxdekcxxjb,egyyercmq cremh
cxdesgrqdgyedxbxdaxeymbrezsecxdemaxdvmoxdzs expkzrxnxsregsiekmskxdst

“Mc,eNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb!”ebcxekdzxi,e ygskzs ehdmnemsxermercxemrcxdemh
qb,egsiehzsgyy.,eozrcegeomngs’beuqzkjezsrqzrzms,ehgbrxszs eqvmsen.
kmnvgszms,e“Zegnebme ygiercgre.mqecgaxekmnxteZecgaxeidzaxseimosermerxyy
.mqebmteZejsmoercgreFgnxbeizis’reimezrteZejsmoezr,egsieZeogsre.mqerm
brgdreqvmse.mqdeomdjejsmozs ezr,ermmteSxaxdeyxre.mqdbxyheimqlreqvms
rcgrevmzsrteOxecgaxejsmosexgkcemrcxdebzskxeoxeoxdxeyzrryxekczyidxs,egsi
Zejsmoeczbehgqyrbegbesmemsxexybxeimxb;elqrecxezbermmerxsixd-cxgdrxierm
cqdregehy.teBqkcegekcgd xezbeglbqdiermegs.msxeocmedxgyy.ejsmobecznt”

“Zecmvxeoxeng.ekyxgdeczn,eNzbbeRqdsxd,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxbte“.mqeng.
dxy.eqvmsen.eimzs egyyercgreZekgst”

“Lqre.mqecgaxedxgiercxexazixskxte.mqecgaxehmdnxiebmnxekmskyqbzms?eIm
.mqesmrebxxebmnxeymmvcmyx,ebmnxehygo?eIme.mqesmre.mqdbxyherczsjercgrecx
zbezssmkxsr?”

“Zerczsjercgrezrezbeaxd.evdmlglyxt”

“Rcxdx,esmo!”ebcxekdzxi,ercdmozs elgkjecxdecxgiegsieymmjzs eixhzgsry.
greYxbrdgixte“.mqecxgd!eCxe zaxbenxecmvxbt”

Yxbrdgixebcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdbte“Zegneghdgziercgren.ekmyyxg qxecgb
lxxsegeyzrryxeuqzkjezsehmdnzs eczbekmskyqbzmsb,”ecxebgzit

“Lqrecxezbedz crteMc!eZejsmoercgrecxezbedz crteFgnxbesxaxdeiziezrteGsi
glmqreczbeuqgddxyeozrceczbehgrcxd,eZegnebqdxercgrercxedxgbmseoc.ecx
omqyiesmrebvxgjeglmqrezrermercxekmdmsxdeogbelxkgqbxeZeogbekmskxdsxiezs
zrt”

“Zseocgreog.?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“Zrezbesmerznxehmdenxermeczixegs.rczs teFgnxbegsieczbehgrcxdecgiengs.
izbg dxxnxsrbeglmqrenxteNdteNkKgdrc.eogbeaxd.egspzmqbercgrercxdxebcmqyi
lxegengddzg xelxroxxseqbteFgnxbegsieZecgaxegyog.beymaxiexgkcemrcxdegb
ldmrcxdegsiebzbrxd;elqremhekmqdbxecxezbe.mqs egsiecgbebxxseaxd.eyzrryx
mheyzhxe.xr,egsi—gsi—oxyy,ecxesgrqdgyy.eiziesmreozbcermeimegs.rczs 
yzjxercgre.xrteBmercxdxeoxdxeuqgddxyb,egsierczb,eZegnebqdx,eogbemsxemh
rcxnt”

“Gsie.mqdehgrcxd?”egbjxieCmynxbte“Ogbecxezsehgamqdemhebqkcegeqszms?”

“Sm,ecxeogbegaxdbxermezregybmteSmemsxelqreNdteNkKgdrc.eogbezsehgamqdemh
zrt”eGeuqzkjelyqbcevgbbxiemaxdecxdehdxbce.mqs ehgkxegbeCmynxbebcmremsx
mheczbejxxs,euqxbrzmszs e ygskxbegrecxdt

“Rcgsje.mqehmderczbezshmdngrzms,”ebgziecxte“Ng.eZebxxe.mqdehgrcxdezheZ
kgyyerm-nmddmo?”

“Zegneghdgziercxeimkrmdeoms’regyymoezrt”

“Rcxeimkrmd?”

“.xb,ecgaxe.mqesmrecxgdi?eVmmdehgrcxdecgbesxaxdelxxsebrdms ehmde.xgdb
lgkj,elqrerczbecgbeldmjxseczneimosekmnvyxrxy.teCxecgbergjxsermeczbelxi,
gsieIdteOzyymobebg.bercgrecxezbegeodxkjegsiercgreczbesxdamqbeb.brxnezb
bcgrrxdxiteNdteNkKgdrc.eogbercxemsy.engsegyzaxeocmecgiejsmoseigiezsercx
myieig.bezseAzkrmdzgt”

“Cg!eZseAzkrmdzg!eRcgrezbeznvmdrgsrt”

“.xb,egrercxenzsxbt”

“Uqzrxebm;egrercxe myi-nzsxb,eocxdx,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,eNdteRqdsxdengix
czbenmsx.t”

“.xb,ekxdrgzsy.t”

“Rcgsje.mq,eNzbbeRqdsxdte.mqecgaxelxxsemhengrxdzgyegbbzbrgskxermenxt”

“.mqeozyyerxyyenxezhe.mqecgaxegs.esxoberm-nmddmoteSmeimqlre.mqeozyye m
rmercxevdzbmsermebxxeFgnxbteMc,ezhe.mqeim,eNdteCmynxb,eimerxyyecznercgr
Zejsmoecznermelxezssmkxsrt”

“Zeozyy,eNzbbeRqdsxdt”

“Zenqbre mecmnxesmo,ehmdeigiezbeaxd.ezyy,egsiecxenzbbxbenxebmezheZ
yxgaxecznte mmi-l.x,egsie miecxyve.mqezse.mqdeqsixdrgjzs t”eBcxecqddzxi
hdmnercxedmmnegbeznvqybzaxy.egbebcxecgiexsrxdxi,egsieoxecxgdiercx
ocxxybemhecxdekgddzg xedgrryxemhheimosercxebrdxxrt

“Zegnegbcgnxiemhe.mq,eCmynxb,”ebgzieYxbrdgixeozrceiz szr.eghrxdegehxo
nzsqrxb’ebzyxskxte“Oc.ebcmqyie.mqedgzbxeqvecmvxbeoczkce.mqegdxelmqsierm
izbgvvmzsr?eZegnesmremaxd-rxsixdemhecxgdr,elqreZekgyyezrekdqxyt”

“ZerczsjercgreZebxxen.eog.ermekyxgdzs eFgnxbeNkKgdrc.,”ebgzieCmynxbt
“Cgaxe.mqegsemdixdermebxxecznezsevdzbms?”

“.xb,elqremsy.ehmde.mqegsienxt”

“RcxseZebcgyyedxkmsbzixden.edxbmyqrzmseglmqre mzs emqrteOxecgaxebrzyy
rznxermergjxegerdgzsermeCxdxhmdiegsiebxxecznerm-sz cr?”

“Gnvyxt”

“RcxseyxreqbeimebmteOgrbms,eZehxgdercgre.mqeozyyehzsiezreaxd.ebymo,elqr
Zebcgyyemsy.elxegog.egekmqvyxemhecmqdbt”

Zeogyjxieimosermercxebrgrzmseozrcercxn,egsiercxseogsixdxiercdmq cercx
brdxxrbemhercxeyzrryxermos,ehzsgyy.edxrqdszs ermercxecmrxy,eocxdxeZeyg.
qvmsercxebmhgegsierdzxiermezsrxdxbren.bxyhezsege.xyymo-lgkjxiesmaxyt
Rcxevqs.evymremhercxebrmd.eogbebmerczs,ecmoxaxd,eocxsekmnvgdxiermercx
ixxven.brxd.ercdmq ceoczkceoxeoxdxe dmvzs ,egsieZehmqsien.egrrxsrzms
ogsixdebmekmsrzsqgyy.ehdmnercxegkrzmsermercxehgkr,ercgreZegreygbrehyqs 
zregkdmbbercxedmmnegsie gaxen.bxyheqvexsrzdxy.ermegekmsbzixdgrzmsemh
rcxexaxsrbemhercxeig.teBqvvmbzs ercgrerczbeqscgvv.e.mqs engs’bebrmd.
oxdxeglbmyqrxy.erdqx,ercxseocgrecxyyzbcerczs ,eocgreglbmyqrxy.
qshmdxbxxsegsiexprdgmdizsgd.ekgygnzr.ekmqyiecgaxemkkqddxielxroxxsercx
rznxeocxsecxevgdrxiehdmneczbehgrcxd,egsiercxenmnxsreocxs,eidgoselgkjel.
czbebkdxgnb,ecxedqbcxiezsrmercxe ygix?eZreogbebmnxrczs erxddzlyxegsi
ixgiy.teOcgrekmqyiezrelx?eNz cresmrercxesgrqdxemhercxezsfqdzxbedxaxgy
bmnxrczs ermen.enxizkgyezsbrzskrb?eZedgs ercxelxyyegsiekgyyxiehmdercx
oxxjy.ekmqsr.evgvxd,eoczkcekmsrgzsxiegeaxdlgrznegkkmqsremhercxezsuqxbrt
Zsercxebqd xms’beixvmbzrzmsezreogbebrgrxiercgrercxevmbrxdzmderczdiemh
rcxeyxhrevgdzxrgyelmsxegsiercxeyxhrecgyhemhercxemkkzvzrgyelmsxecgielxxs
bcgrrxdxiel.egecxga.elymoehdmnegelyqsreoxgvmsteZengdjxiercxebvmreqvms
n.emosecxgiteKyxgdy.ebqkcegelymoenqbrecgaxelxxsebrdqkjehdmnelxczsit
Rcgreogbermebmnxexprxsrezsehgamqdemhercxegkkqbxi,egbeocxsebxxs
uqgddxyyzs ecxeogbehgkxermehgkxeozrceczbehgrcxdteBrzyy,ezreiziesmre m
hmdeaxd.enqkc,ehmdercxemyixdengsenz crecgaxerqdsxieczbelgkjelxhmdxercx
lymoehxyyteBrzyy,ezrenz crelxeomdrceoczyxermekgyyeCmynxb’egrrxsrzmserm
zrteRcxsercxdxeogbercxevxkqyzgdei.zs edxhxdxskxermegedgrteOcgrekmqyi
rcgrenxgs?eZrekmqyiesmrelxeixyzdzqnteGengsei.zs ehdmnegebqiixselymo
imxbesmrekmnnmsy.elxkmnxeixyzdzmqbteSm,ezreogbenmdxeyzjxy.ermelxegs
grrxnvrermexpvygzsecmoecxenxreczbehgrxteLqreocgrekmqyiezrezsizkgrx?eZ
kqi xyyxien.eldgzsbermehzsiebmnxevmbbzlyxexpvygsgrzmsteGsiercxsercx
zskzixsremhercxe dx.ekymrcebxxsel.e.mqs eNkKgdrc.teZhercgreoxdxerdqx
rcxenqdixdxdenqbrecgaxeidmvvxiebmnxevgdremheczbeidxbb,evdxbqngly.eczb
maxdkmgr,ezseczbehyz cr,egsienqbrecgaxecgiercxecgdizcmmiermedxrqdsegsi
rmekgdd.ezregog.egrercxezsbrgsreocxsercxebmseogbejsxxyzs eozrceczbelgkj
rqdsxiesmregeimwxsevgkxbemhhteOcgregerzbbqxemhen.brxdzxbegsi
znvdmlglzyzrzxbercxeocmyxerczs eogb!eZeiziesmreomsixdegreYxbrdgix’b
mvzszms,egsie.xreZecgiebmenqkcehgzrcezseBcxdymkjeCmynxb’ezsbz crercgreZ
kmqyiesmreymbxecmvxegbeyms egbexaxd.ehdxbcehgkrebxxnxiermebrdxs rcxs
czbekmsazkrzmsemhe.mqs eNkKgdrc.’bezssmkxskxt

ZreogbeygrxelxhmdxeBcxdymkjeCmynxbedxrqdsxiteCxekgnxelgkjegymsx,ehmd
Yxbrdgixeogbebrg.zs ezseymi zs bezsercxermost

“Rcxe ygbbebrzyyejxxvbeaxd.ecz c,”ecxedxngdjxiegbecxebgreimoste“Zrezb
mheznvmdrgskxercgrezrebcmqyiesmredgzselxhmdxeoxegdxeglyxerme memaxdercx
 dmqsiteMsercxemrcxdecgsi,egengsebcmqyielxegreczbeaxd.elxbregsiejxxsxbr
hmdebqkceszkxeomdjegbercgr,egsieZeiziesmreozbcermeimezreocxsehg  xiel.
geyms efmqdsx.teZecgaxebxxse.mqs eNkKgdrc.t”

“Gsieocgreizie.mqeyxgdsehdmneczn?”

“Smrczs t”

“Kmqyiecxercdmoesmeyz cr?”

“SmsxegregyyteZeogbezskyzsxiermerczsjegremsxerznxercgrecxejsxoeocmecgi
imsxezregsieogbebkdxxszs ecznemdecxd,elqreZegnekmsazskxiesmoercgrecxezb
gbevqwwyxiegbexaxd.msxexybxteCxezbesmregeaxd.euqzkj-ozrrxie.mqrc,
rcmq cekmnxy.ermeymmjegregsi,eZebcmqyierczsj,ebmqsiegrecxgdrt”

“Zekgssmreginzdxeczbergbrx,”eZedxngdjxi,e“zhezrezbezsixxiegehgkrercgr
cxeogbegaxdbxermegengddzg xeozrcebmekcgdnzs ege.mqs eygi.egberczbeNzbb
Rqdsxdt”

“Gc,ercxdxl.ecgs begedgrcxdevgzshqyergyxteRczbehxyymoezbengiy.,
zsbgsxy.,ezseymaxeozrcecxd,elqrebmnxerome.xgdbeg m,eocxsecxeogbemsy.eg
ygi,egsielxhmdxecxedxgyy.ejsxoecxd,ehmdebcxecgielxxsegog.ehzaxe.xgdbegr
gelmgdizs -bkcmmy,eocgreimxbercxezizmreimelqre xrezsrmercxekyqrkcxbemh
gelgdngziezseLdzbrmyegsiengdd.ecxdegregedx zbrd.emhhzkx?eSmemsxejsmobeg
omdiemhercxengrrxd,elqre.mqekgsezng zsxecmoengiixszs ezrenqbrelxermeczn
rmelxeqvldgzixiehmdesmreimzs eocgrecxeomqyie zaxeczbeaxd.ex.xbermeim,
lqreocgrecxejsmobermelxeglbmyqrxy.eznvmbbzlyxteZreogbebcxxdehdxsw.emh
rczbebmdreoczkcengixecznercdmoeczbecgsibeqvezsrmercxegzdeocxseczb
hgrcxd,egrercxzdeygbrezsrxdazxo,eogbe mgizs ecznemsermevdmvmbxermeNzbb
RqdsxdteMsercxemrcxdecgsi,ecxecgiesmenxgsbemhebqvvmdrzs ecznbxyh,egsi
czbehgrcxd,eocmeogbel.egyyegkkmqsrbegeaxd.ecgdiengs,eomqyiecgaxercdmos
cznemaxdeqrrxdy.ecgiecxejsmosercxerdqrcteZreogbeozrceczbelgdngzieozhx
rcgrecxecgiebvxsrercxeygbrercdxxeig.bezseLdzbrmy,egsieczbehgrcxdeizi
smrejsmoeocxdxecxeogbteNgdjercgrevmzsrteZrezbemheznvmdrgskxte mmiecgb
kmnxemqremhexazy,ecmoxaxd,ehmdercxelgdngzi,ehzsizs ehdmnercxevgvxdb
rcgrecxezbezsebxdzmqberdmqlyxegsieyzjxy.ermelxecgs xi,ecgbercdmoseczn
maxdeqrrxdy.egsiecgbeodzrrxsermecznermebg.ercgrebcxecgbegecqblgsi
gydxgi.ezsercxeLxdnqigeImkj.gdi,ebmercgrercxdxezbedxgyy.esmerzxelxroxxs
rcxnteZerczsjercgrercgrelzremhesxobecgbekmsbmyxie.mqs eNkKgdrc.ehmdegyy
rcgrecxecgbebqhhxdxit”

“Lqrezhecxezbezssmkxsr,eocmecgbeimsxezr?”

“Gc!eocm?eZeomqyiekgyye.mqdegrrxsrzmseaxd.evgdrzkqygdy.ermeromevmzsrbt
Msxezbercgrercxenqdixdxiengsecgiegsegvvmzsrnxsreozrcebmnxmsxegrercx
vmmy,egsiercgrercxebmnxmsxekmqyiesmrecgaxelxxseczbebms,ehmdeczbebmseogb
gog.,egsiecxeiziesmrejsmoeocxsecxeomqyiedxrqdsteRcxebxkmsiezbercgrercx
nqdixdxiengseogbecxgdiermekd.e‘Kmmxx!’elxhmdxecxejsxoercgreczbebmsecgi
dxrqdsxiteRcmbxegdxercxekdqkzgyevmzsrbeqvmseoczkcercxekgbxeixvxsibteGsi
smoeyxreqbergyjeglmqre xmd xeNxdxizrc,ezhe.mqevyxgbx,egsieoxebcgyy
yxgaxegyyenzsmdengrrxdbeqsrzyerm-nmddmot”

Rcxdxeogbesmedgzs,egbeCmynxbecgiehmdxrmyi,egsiercxenmdszs eldmjxeldz cr
gsiekymqiyxbbteGreszsxem’kymkjeYxbrdgixekgyyxiehmdeqbeozrcercx
kgddzg x,egsieoxebxremhhehmdeCgrcxdyx.eHgdnegsiercxeLmbkmnlxeVmmyt

“Rcxdxezbebxdzmqbesxoberczbenmdszs ,”eYxbrdgixemlbxdaxite“Zrezbebgzi
rcgreNdteRqdsxd,emhercxeCgyy,ezbebmezyyercgreczbeyzhxezbeixbvgzdxiemht”

“Gsexyixdy.engs,eZevdxbqnx?”ebgzieCmynxbt

“Glmqrebzpr.;elqreczbekmsbrzrqrzmsecgbelxxsebcgrrxdxiel.eczbeyzhx
gldmgi,egsiecxecgbelxxsezsehgzyzs ecxgyrcehmdebmnxerznxteRczbelqbzsxbb
cgbecgiegeaxd.elgiexhhxkreqvmsecznteCxeogbegsemyiehdzxsiemheNkKgdrc.’b,
gsi,eZeng.egii,ege dxgrelxsxhgkrmdermeczn,ehmdeZecgaxeyxgdsxiercgrecx
 gaxeczneCgrcxdyx.eHgdnedxsrehdxxt”

“Zsixxi!eRcgrezbezsrxdxbrzs ,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“Mc,e.xb!eZsegecqsidxiemrcxdeog.becxecgbecxyvxiecznteXaxd.lmi.eglmqr
cxdxebvxgjbemheczbejzsisxbbermecznt”

“Dxgyy.!eImxbezresmrebrdzjxe.mqegbegeyzrryxebzs qygdercgrerczb
NkKgdrc.,eocmegvvxgdbermecgaxecgieyzrryxemheczbemos,egsiermecgaxelxxs
qsixdebqkcemlyz grzmsbermeRqdsxd,ebcmqyiebrzyyergyjemhengdd.zs eczbebms
rmeRqdsxd’beigq crxd,eocmezb,evdxbqngly.,ecxzdxbbermercxexbrgrx,egsi
rcgrezsebqkcegeaxd.ekmkjbqdxengssxd,egbezhezreoxdxenxdxy.egekgbxemheg
vdmvmbgyegsiegyyexybxeomqyiehmyymo?eZrezbercxenmdxebrdgs x,ebzskxeox
jsmoercgreRqdsxdecznbxyheogbegaxdbxermercxezixgteRcxeigq crxdermyieqb
gbenqkcteIme.mqesmreixiqkxebmnxrczs ehdmnercgr?”

“Oxecgaxe mrermercxeixiqkrzmsbegsiercxezshxdxskxb,”ebgzieYxbrdgix,
ozsjzs egrenxte“Zehzsiezrecgdiexsmq cermergkjyxehgkrb,eCmynxb,eozrcmqr
hy.zs egog.eghrxdercxmdzxbegsiehgskzxbt”

“.mqegdxedz cr,”ebgzieCmynxbeixnqdxy.;e“.mqeimehzsiezreaxd.ecgdierm
rgkjyxercxehgkrbt”

“Gs.cmo,eZecgaxe dgbvxiemsxehgkreoczkce.mqebxxnermehzsiezreizhhzkqyrerm
 xrecmyiemh,”edxvyzxieYxbrdgixeozrcebmnxeogdnrct

“Gsiercgrezb—”

“RcgreNkKgdrc.ebxszmdenxreczbeixgrcehdmneNkKgdrc.efqszmdegsiercgregyy
rcxmdzxbermercxekmsrdgd.egdxercxenxdxbrenmmsbczsxt”

“Oxyy,enmmsbczsxezbegeldz crxderczs ercgsehm ,”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs t
“LqreZegneaxd.enqkcenzbrgjxsezherczbezbesmreCgrcxdyx.eHgdneqvmsercx
yxhrt”

“.xb,ercgrezbezrt”eZreogbegeozixbvdxgi,ekmnhmdrglyx-ymmjzs elqzyizs ,
rom-brmdzxi,ebygrx-dmmhxi,eozrce dxgre.xyymoelymrkcxbemheyzkcxseqvms
rcxe dx.eogyybteRcxeidgoselyzsibegsiercxebnmjxyxbbekcznsx.b,ecmoxaxd,
 gaxezregebrdzkjxseymmj,egbercmq cercxeoxz cremherczbecmddmdebrzyyeyg.
cxga.eqvmsezrteOxekgyyxiegrercxeimmd,eocxsercxengzi,egreCmynxb’
dxuqxbr,ebcmoxieqbercxelmmrbeoczkcecxdengbrxdeomdxegrercxerznxemheczb
ixgrc,egsiegybmegevgzdemhercxebms’b,ercmq cesmrercxevgzdeoczkcecxecgi
rcxsecgiteCgazs enxgbqdxiercxbxeaxd.ekgdxhqyy.ehdmnebxaxsemdexz cr
izhhxdxsrevmzsrb,eCmynxbeixbzdxiermelxeyxiermercxekmqdr-.gdi,ehdmn
oczkceoxegyyehmyymoxiercxeozsizs erdgkjeoczkceyxiermeLmbkmnlxeVmmyt

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeogberdgsbhmdnxieocxsecxeogbecmreqvmsebqkcegebkxsregb
rczbteNxseocmecgiemsy.ejsmosercxeuqzxrerczsjxdegsieym zkzgsemheLgjxd
Brdxxreomqyiecgaxehgzyxiermedxkm szbxecznteCzbehgkxehyqbcxiegsi
igdjxsxiteCzbeldmobeoxdxeidgosezsrmeromecgdielygkjeyzsxb,eoczyxeczb
x.xbebcmsxemqrehdmnelxsxgrcercxneozrcegebrxxy.e yzrrxdteCzbehgkxeogb
lxsreimosogdi,eczbebcmqyixdbelmoxi,eczbeyzvbekmnvdxbbxi,egsiercxeaxzsb
brmmiemqreyzjxeoczvkmdiezseczbeyms ,ebzsxo.esxkjteCzbesmbrdzybebxxnxi
rmeizygrxeozrcegevqdxy.egszngyeyqbrehmdercxekcgbx,egsieczbenzsieogbebm
glbmyqrxy.ekmskxsrdgrxieqvmsercxengrrxdelxhmdxecznercgregeuqxbrzmsemd
dxngdjehxyyeqscxxixieqvmseczbexgdb,emd,egrercxenmbr,emsy.evdmamjxieg
uqzkj,eznvgrzxsrebsgdyezsedxvy.teBozhry.egsiebzyxsry.ecxengixeczbeog.
gyms ercxerdgkjeoczkcedgsercdmq cercxenxgimob,egsiebmel.eog.emhercx
ommibermercxeLmbkmnlxeVmmyteZreogbeignv,engdbc.e dmqsi,egbezbegyyercgr
izbrdzkr,egsiercxdxeoxdxengdjbemhengs.ehxxr,elmrceqvmsercxevgrcegsi
gnziercxebcmdre dgbbeoczkcelmqsixiezremsexzrcxdebzixteBmnxrznxbeCmynxb
omqyiecqdd.ems,ebmnxrznxbebrmveixgi,egsiemskxecxengixeuqzrxegeyzrryx
ixrmqdezsrmercxenxgimoteYxbrdgixegsieZeogyjxielxczsieczn,ercxeixrxkrzax
zsizhhxdxsregsiekmsrxnvrqmqb,eoczyxeZeogrkcxien.ehdzxsieozrcercx
zsrxdxbreoczkcebvdgs ehdmnercxekmsazkrzmsercgrexaxd.emsxemheczbegkrzmsb
ogbeizdxkrxiermogdibegeixhzszrxexsit

RcxeLmbkmnlxeVmmy,eoczkcezbegeyzrryxedxxi- zdrebcxxremheogrxdebmnx
hzhr.e.gdibegkdmbb,ezbebzrqgrxiegrercxelmqsigd.elxroxxsercxeCgrcxdyx.
Hgdnegsiercxevdzagrxevgdjemhercxeoxgyrc.eNdteRqdsxdteGlmaxercxeommib
oczkceyzsxiezreqvmsercxehgdrcxdebzixeoxekmqyiebxxercxedxi,efqrrzs 
vzssgkyxbeoczkcengdjxiercxebzrxemhercxedzkceygsimosxd’beioxyyzs teMs
rcxeCgrcxdyx.ebzixemhercxevmmyercxeommibe dxoeaxd.erczkj,egsiercxdxeogb
gesgddmoelxyremhebmiixse dgbberoxsr.evgkxbegkdmbbelxroxxsercxexi xemh
rcxerdxxbegsiercxedxxibeoczkceyzsxiercxeygjxteYxbrdgixebcmoxieqbercx
xpgkrebvmregreoczkcercxelmi.ecgielxxsehmqsi,egsi,ezsixxi,ebmenmzbreogb
rcxe dmqsi,ercgreZekmqyievygzsy.ebxxercxerdgkxbeoczkcecgielxxseyxhrel.
rcxehgyyemhercxebrdzkjxsengsteRmeCmynxb,egbeZekmqyiebxxel.eczbexg xd
hgkxegsievxxdzs ex.xb,eaxd.engs.emrcxderczs beoxdxermelxedxgieqvmsercx
rdgnvyxie dgbbteCxedgsedmqsi,eyzjxegeim eocmezbevzkjzs eqvegebkxsr,egsi
rcxserqdsxieqvmsen.ekmnvgszmst

“Ocgreizie.mqe mezsrmercxevmmyehmd?”ecxegbjxit

“ZehzbcxieglmqreozrcegedgjxteZercmq crercxdxenz crelxebmnxeoxgvmsemd
mrcxderdgkxteLqrecmoemsexgdrc—”

“Mc,erqr,erqr!eZecgaxesmerznx!eRcgreyxhrehmmremhe.mqdbeozrcezrbezsogdi
rozbrezbegyyemaxdercxevygkxteGenmyxekmqyierdgkxezr,egsiercxdxezr
agszbcxbegnms ercxedxxibteMc,ecmoebznvyxezreomqyiegyyecgaxelxxsecgieZ
lxxsecxdxelxhmdxercx.ekgnxeyzjxegecxdiemhelqhhgymegsieogyymoxiegyyemaxd
zrteCxdxezbeocxdxercxevgdr.eozrcercxeymi x-jxxvxdekgnx,egsiercx.ecgax
kmaxdxiegyyerdgkjbehmdebzpemdexz crehxxredmqsiercxelmi.teLqrecxdxegdx
rcdxxebxvgdgrxerdgkjbemhercxebgnxehxxrt”eCxeidxoemqregeyxsbegsieyg.
imoseqvmseczbeogrxdvdmmhermecgaxegelxrrxdeazxo,ergyjzs egyyercxerznx
dgrcxdermecznbxyhercgsermeqbte“Rcxbxegdxe.mqs eNkKgdrc.’behxxrteRozkx
cxeogbeogyjzs ,egsiemskxecxedgsebozhry.,ebmercgrercxebmyxbegdxeixxvy.
ngdjxiegsiercxecxxybecgdiy.eazbzlyxteRcgrelxgdbemqreczbebrmd.teCxedgs
ocxsecxebgoeczbehgrcxdemsercxe dmqsiteRcxsecxdxegdxercxehgrcxd’behxxr
gbecxevgkxieqvegsieimosteOcgrezberczb,ercxs?eZrezbercxelqrr-xsiemhercx
 qsegbercxebmsebrmmieyzbrxszs teGsierczb?eCg,ecg!eOcgrecgaxeoxecxdx?
Rzvrmxb!erzvrmxb!eBuqgdx,ermm,euqzrxeqsqbqgyelmmrb!eRcx.ekmnx,ercx.e m,
rcx.ekmnxeg gzs—mhekmqdbxercgreogbehmdercxekymgjteSmoeocxdxeiziercx.
kmnxehdmn?”eCxedgseqvegsieimos,ebmnxrznxbeymbzs ,ebmnxrznxbehzsizs ercx
rdgkjeqsrzyeoxeoxdxeoxyyeozrczsercxexi xemhercxeommiegsieqsixdercx
bcgimoemhege dxgrelxxkc,ercxeygd xbrerdxxezsercxesxz clmqdcmmiteCmynxb
rdgkxieczbeog.ermercxehgdrcxdebzixemherczbegsieyg.eimosemskxenmdxeqvms
czbehgkxeozrcegeyzrryxekd.emhebgrzbhgkrzmsteHmdegeyms erznxecxedxngzsxi
rcxdx,erqdszs emaxdercxeyxgaxbegsieidzxiebrzkjb,e grcxdzs eqveocgr
bxxnxiermenxermelxeiqbrezsrmegsexsaxymvxegsiexpgnzszs eozrceczbeyxsb
smremsy.ercxe dmqsielqrexaxsercxelgdjemhercxerdxxegbehgdegbecxekmqyi
dxgkcteGefg  xiebrmsxeogbey.zs egnms ercxenmbb,egsierczbegybmecx
kgdxhqyy.expgnzsxiegsiedxrgzsxiteRcxsecxehmyymoxiegevgrcog.ercdmq cercx
ommieqsrzyecxekgnxermercxecz cdmgi,eocxdxegyyerdgkxbeoxdxeymbrt

“Zrecgbelxxsegekgbxemhekmsbzixdglyxezsrxdxbr,”ecxedxngdjxi,edxrqdszs 
rmeczbesgrqdgyengssxdte“Zehgsk.ercgrerczbe dx.ecmqbxemsercxedz crenqbr
lxercxeymi xteZerczsjercgreZeozyye mezsegsiecgaxegeomdieozrceNmdgs,egsi
vxdcgvbeodzrxegeyzrryxesmrxteCgazs eimsxercgr,eoxeng.eidzaxelgkjermemqd
yqskcxmste.mqeng.eogyjermercxekgl,egsieZebcgyyelxeozrce.mqevdxbxsry.t”

Zreogbeglmqrerxsenzsqrxbelxhmdxeoxedx gzsxiemqdekglegsieidmaxelgkjezsrm
Dmbb,eCmynxbebrzyyekgdd.zs eozrcecznercxebrmsxeoczkcecxecgievzkjxieqv
zsercxeommit

“Rczbeng.ezsrxdxbre.mq,eYxbrdgix,”ecxedxngdjxi,ecmyizs ezremqrte“Rcx
nqdixdeogbeimsxeozrcezrt”

“Zebxxesmengdjbt”

“Rcxdxegdxesmsxt”

“Cmoeime.mqejsmo,ercxs?”

“Rcxe dgbbeogbe dmozs eqsixdezrteZrecgiemsy.eygzsercxdxegehxoeig.bt
Rcxdxeogbesmebz semhegevygkxeocxskxezrecgielxxsergjxsteZrekmddxbvmsib
ozrcercxezsfqdzxbteRcxdxezbesmebz semhegs.emrcxdeoxgvmst”

“Gsiercxenqdixdxd?”

“Zbegergyyengs,eyxhr-cgsixi,eyznvbeozrcercxedz creyx ,eoxgdb
rczkj-bmyxiebcmmrzs -lmmrbegsiege dx.ekymgj,ebnmjxbeZsizgsekz gdb,eqbxb
gekz gd-cmyixd,egsiekgddzxbegelyqsrevxs-jszhxezseczbevmkjxrteRcxdxegdx
bxaxdgyemrcxdezsizkgrzmsb,elqrercxbxeng.elxexsmq cermegzieqbezsemqd
bxgdkct”

Yxbrdgixeygq cxite“ZegneghdgziercgreZegnebrzyyegebkxvrzk,”ecxebgzit
“Rcxmdzxbegdxegyyeaxd.eoxyy,elqreoxecgaxermeixgyeozrcegecgdi-cxgixi
Ldzrzbcefqd.t”

“_Smqbeaxddmsb_,”egsboxdxieCmynxbekgyny.te“.mqeomdje.mqdemosenxrcmi,
gsieZebcgyyeomdjenzsxteZebcgyyelxelqb.erczbeghrxdsmms,egsiebcgyy
vdmlgly.edxrqdsermeYmsimsel.ercxexaxszs erdgzst”

“Gsieyxgaxe.mqdekgbxeqshzszbcxi?”

“Sm,ehzszbcxit”

“Lqrercxen.brxd.?”

“Zrezbebmyaxit”

“Ocmeogbercxekdznzsgy,ercxs?”

“Rcxe xsryxngseZeixbkdzlxt”

“Lqreocmezbecx?”

“Bqdxy.ezreomqyiesmrelxeizhhzkqyrermehzsiemqrteRczbezbesmrebqkceg
vmvqymqbesxz clmqdcmmit”

Yxbrdgixebcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdbte“Zegnegevdgkrzkgyengs,”ecxebgzi,e“gsi
Zedxgyy.ekgssmreqsixdrgjxerme meglmqrercxekmqsrd.eymmjzs ehmdeg
yxhr-cgsixie xsryxngseozrcege gnxeyx teZebcmqyielxkmnxercx
ygq czs -brmkjemheBkmrygsie.gdit”

“Gyyedz cr,”ebgzieCmynxbeuqzxry.te“Zecgaxe zaxse.mqercxekcgskxteCxdx
gdxe.mqdeymi zs bte mmi-l.xteZebcgyyeidmve.mqegeyzsxelxhmdxeZeyxgaxt”

Cgazs eyxhreYxbrdgixegreczbedmmnb,eoxeidmaxermemqdecmrxy,eocxdxeox
hmqsieyqskceqvmsercxerglyxteCmynxbeogbebzyxsregsielqdzxiezsercmq cr
ozrcegevgzsxiexpvdxbbzmseqvmseczbehgkx,egbemsxeocmehzsibecznbxyhezseg
vxdvyxpzs evmbzrzmst

“Ymmjecxdx,eOgrbms,”ecxebgzieocxsercxekymrceogbekyxgdxie“fqbrebzreimos
zserczbekcgzdegsieyxrenxevdxgkcerme.mqehmdegeyzrryxteZeims’rejsmoeuqzrx
ocgrermeim,egsieZebcmqyieagyqxe.mqdegiazkxteYz cregekz gdegsieyxrenx
xpvmqsit”

e“Vdg.eimebmt”

“Oxyy,esmo,ezsekmsbzixdzs erczbekgbxercxdxegdxeromevmzsrbeglmqre.mqs 
NkKgdrc.’besgddgrzaxeoczkcebrdqkjeqbelmrcezsbrgsry.,egyrcmq cercx.
znvdxbbxienxezseczbehgamqdegsie.mqeg gzsbrecznteMsxeogbercxehgkrercgr
czbehgrcxdebcmqyi,egkkmdizs ermeczbegkkmqsr,ekd.e‘Kmmxx!’elxhmdxebxxzs 
cznteRcxemrcxdeogbeczbebzs qygdei.zs edxhxdxskxermegedgrteCxenqnlyxi
bxaxdgyeomdib,e.mqeqsixdbrgsi,elqrercgreogbegyyercgrekgq crercxebms’b
xgdteSmoehdmnerczbeimqlyxevmzsremqdedxbxgdkcenqbrekmnnxskx,egsieoxeozyy
lx zsezrel.evdxbqnzs ercgreocgrercxeygiebg.bezbeglbmyqrxy.erdqxt”

“Ocgremherczbe‘Kmmxx!’ercxs?”

“Oxyy,emlazmqby.ezrekmqyiesmrecgaxelxxsenxgsrehmdercxebmsteRcxebms,egb
hgdegbecxejsxo,eogbezseLdzbrmyteZreogbenxdxekcgskxercgrecxeogbeozrczs
xgdbcmrteRcxe‘Kmmxx!’eogbenxgsrermegrrdgkrercxegrrxsrzmsemheocmxaxdezr
ogbercgrecxecgiercxegvvmzsrnxsreozrcteLqre‘Kmmxx’ezbegeizbrzskry.
Gqbrdgyzgsekd.,egsiemsxeoczkcezbeqbxielxroxxseGqbrdgyzgsbteRcxdxezbeg
brdms evdxbqnvrzmsercgrercxevxdbmseocmneNkKgdrc.expvxkrxiermenxxreczn
greLmbkmnlxeVmmyeogbebmnxmsxeocmecgielxxsezseGqbrdgyzgt”

“Ocgremhercxedgr,ercxs?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbermmjegehmyixievgvxdehdmneczbevmkjxregsiehygrrxsxiezr
mqremsercxerglyxte“RczbezbegengvemhercxeKmyms.emheAzkrmdzg,”ecxebgzit
“ZeozdxiermeLdzbrmyehmdezreygbresz crt”eCxevqreczbecgsiemaxdevgdremh
rcxengvte“Ocgreime.mqedxgi?”

“GDGR,”eZedxgit

“Gsiesmo?”eCxedgzbxieczbecgsit

“LGYYGDGRt”

“UqzrxebmteRcgreogbercxeomdiercxengseqrrxdxi,egsiemheoczkceczbebmsemsy.
kgq crercxeygbreromeb.yyglyxbteCxeogberd.zs ermeqrrxdercxesgnxemheczb
nqdixdxdteBmegsiebm,emheLgyygdgrt”

“Zrezbeomsixdhqy!”eZexpkygznxit

“ZrezbemlazmqbteGsiesmo,e.mqebxx,eZecgiesgddmoxiercxehzxyieimos
kmsbzixdgly.teRcxevmbbxbbzmsemhege dx.e gdnxsreogbegerczdievmzsreoczkc,
 dgsrzs ercxebms’bebrgrxnxsrermelxekmddxkr,eogbegekxdrgzsr.teOxecgax
kmnxesmoemqremhenxdxeag qxsxbbermercxeixhzszrxekmskxvrzmsemhegs
GqbrdgyzgsehdmneLgyygdgreozrcege dx.ekymgjt”

“Kxdrgzsy.t”

“Gsiemsxeocmeogbegrecmnxezsercxeizbrdzkr,ehmdercxevmmyekgsemsy.elx
gvvdmgkcxiel.ercxehgdnemdel.ercxexbrgrx,eocxdxebrdgs xdbekmqyiecgdiy.
ogsixdt”

“Uqzrxebmt”

“Rcxsekmnxbemqdexpvxizrzmsemherm-ig.teL.egsexpgnzsgrzmsemhercxe dmqsieZ
 gzsxiercxerdzhyzs eixrgzybeoczkceZe gaxermercgreznlxkzyxeYxbrdgix,egb
rmercxevxdbmsgyzr.emhercxekdznzsgyt”

“Lqrecmoeizie.mqe gzsercxn?”

“.mqejsmoen.enxrcmiteZrezbehmqsixieqvmsercxemlbxdagrzmsemherdzhyxbt”

“Czbecxz creZejsmoercgre.mqenz credmq cy.efqi xehdmnercxeyxs rcemheczb
brdzixteCzbelmmrb,ermm,enz crelxermyiehdmnercxzderdgkxbt”

“.xb,ercx.eoxdxevxkqyzgdelmmrbt”

“Lqreczbeygnxsxbb?”

“Rcxeznvdxbbzmsemheczbedz crehmmreogbegyog.beyxbbeizbrzskrercgseczb
yxhrteCxevqreyxbbeoxz creqvmsezrteOc.?eLxkgqbxecxeyznvxi—cxeogbeygnxt”

“Lqreczbeyxhr-cgsixisxbbt”

“.mqeoxdxe.mqdbxyhebrdqkjel.ercxesgrqdxemhercxezsfqd.egbedxkmdixiel.
rcxebqd xmsegrercxezsuqxbrteRcxelymoeogbebrdqkjehdmneznnxizgrxy.
lxczsi,egsie.xreogbeqvmsercxeyxhrebzixteSmo,ecmoekgsercgrelxeqsyxbbezr
oxdxel.egeyxhr-cgsixiengs?eCxecgiebrmmielxczsiercgrerdxxeiqdzs ercx
zsrxdazxoelxroxxsercxehgrcxdegsiebmsteCxecgiexaxsebnmjxiercxdxteZehmqsi
rcxegbcemhegekz gd,eoczkcen.ebvxkzgyejsmoyxi xemhermlgkkmegbcxbexsglyxb
nxermevdmsmqskxegbegseZsizgsekz gdteZecgax,egbe.mqejsmo,eixamrxiebmnx
grrxsrzmsermerczb,egsieodzrrxsegeyzrryxenmsm dgvcemsercxegbcxbemhe140
izhhxdxsreagdzxrzxbemhevzvx,ekz gd,egsiekz gdxrrxermlgkkmteCgazs ehmqsi
rcxegbc,eZercxseymmjxiedmqsiegsieizbkmaxdxiercxebrqnvegnms ercxenmbb
ocxdxecxecgiermbbxiezrteZreogbegseZsizgsekz gd,emhercxeagdzxr.eoczkc
gdxedmyyxiezseDmrrxdignt”

“Gsiercxekz gd-cmyixd?”

“ZekmqyiebxxercgrercxexsiecgiesmrelxxsezseczbenmqrcteRcxdxhmdxecxeqbxi
gecmyixdteRcxerzvecgielxxsekqremhh,esmrelzrrxsemhh,elqrercxekqreogbesmr
gekyxgsemsx,ebmeZeixiqkxiegelyqsrevxs-jszhxt”

“Cmynxb,”eZebgzi,e“.mqecgaxeidgosegesxredmqsierczbengsehdmneoczkcecx
kgssmrexbkgvx,egsie.mqecgaxebgaxiegsezssmkxsrecqngseyzhxegberdqy.egbezh
.mqecgiekqrercxekmdieoczkceogbecgs zs ecznteZebxxercxeizdxkrzmsezs
oczkcegyyerczbevmzsrbteRcxekqyvdzrezb—”

“NdteFmcseRqdsxd,”ekdzxiercxecmrxyeogzrxd,emvxszs ercxeimmdemhemqd
bzrrzs -dmmn,egsieqbcxdzs ezsegeazbzrmdt

Rcxengseocmexsrxdxieogbegebrdgs xegsieznvdxbbzaxehz qdxteCzbebymo,
yznvzs ebrxvegsielmoxiebcmqyixdbe gaxercxegvvxgdgskxemheixkdxvzrqix,
gsie.xreczbecgdi,eixxv-yzsxi,ekdg  .ehxgrqdxb,egsieczbexsmdnmqbeyznlb
bcmoxiercgrecxeogbevmbbxbbxiemheqsqbqgyebrdxs rcemhelmi.egsiemh
kcgdgkrxdteCzbergs yxielxgdi,e dzwwyxiecgzd,egsiemqrbrgsizs ,eidmmvzs 
x.xldmobekmnlzsxierme zaxegsegzdemheiz szr.egsievmoxdermeczb
gvvxgdgskx,elqreczbehgkxeogbemhegsegbcxseoczrx,eoczyxeczbeyzvbegsiercx
kmdsxdbemheczbesmbrdzybeoxdxerzs xieozrcegebcgixemhelyqxteZreogbekyxgd
rmenxegrege ygskxercgrecxeogbezsercxe dzvemhebmnxeixgiy.egsiekcdmszk
izbxgbxt

“Vdg.ebzreimosemsercxebmhg,”ebgzieCmynxbe xsry.te“.mqecgien.esmrx?”

“.xb,ercxeymi x-jxxvxdeldmq crezreqvte.mqebgziercgre.mqeozbcxiermebxx
nxecxdxermegamziebkgsigyt”

“Zercmq crevxmvyxeomqyiergyjezheZeoxsrermercxeCgyyt”

“Gsieoc.eizie.mqeozbcermebxxenx?”eCxeymmjxiegkdmbbegren.ekmnvgszmseozrc
ixbvgzdezseczbeoxgd.ex.xb,egbercmq ceczbeuqxbrzmseogbegydxgi.egsboxdxit

“.xb,”ebgzieCmynxb,egsboxdzs ercxeymmjedgrcxdercgsercxeomdibte“Zrezb
bmteZejsmoegyyeglmqreNkKgdrc.t”

Rcxemyiengsebgsjeczbehgkxezseczbecgsibte“ miecxyvenx!”ecxekdzxite“LqreZ
omqyiesmrecgaxeyxrercxe.mqs engsekmnxermecgdnteZe zaxe.mqen.eomdiercgr
Zeomqyiecgaxebvmjxsemqrezhezreoxsreg gzsbrecznegrercxeGbbzwxbt”

“Zegne ygiermecxgde.mqebg.ebm,”ebgzieCmynxbe dgaxy.t

“Zeomqyiecgaxebvmjxsesmoecgiezresmrelxxsehmden.eixgde zdyteZreomqyi
ldxgjecxdecxgdr—zreozyyeldxgjecxdecxgdreocxsebcxecxgdbercgreZegn
gddxbrxit”

“Zreng.esmrekmnxermercgr,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“Ocgr?”

“Zegnesmemhhzkzgyeg xsrteZeqsixdbrgsiercgrezreogbe.mqdeigq crxdeocm
dxuqzdxien.evdxbxskxecxdx,egsieZegnegkrzs ezsecxdezsrxdxbrbte.mqs 
NkKgdrc.enqbrelxe mremhh,ecmoxaxdt”

“Zegnegei.zs engs,”ebgziemyieRqdsxdte“Zecgaxecgieizglxrxbehmde.xgdbteN.
imkrmdebg.bezrezbegeuqxbrzmseocxrcxdeZebcgyyeyzaxegenmsrcte.xreZeomqyi
dgrcxdeizxeqsixden.emosedmmhercgsezsege gmyt”

Cmynxbedmbxegsiebgreimosegrercxerglyxeozrceczbevxsezseczbecgsiegsieg
lqsiyxemhevgvxdelxhmdxecznte“Fqbrerxyyeqbercxerdqrc,”ecxebgzite“Zebcgyy
fmreimosercxehgkrbte.mqeozyyebz sezr,egsieOgrbmsecxdxekgseozrsxbbezrt
RcxseZekmqyievdmiqkxe.mqdekmshxbbzmsegrercxeygbrexprdxnzr.ermebgax
.mqs eNkKgdrc.teZevdmnzbxe.mqercgreZebcgyyesmreqbxezreqsyxbbezrezb
glbmyqrxy.esxxixit”

“Zr’begbeoxyy,”ebgziercxemyiengs;e“zr’begeuqxbrzmseocxrcxdeZebcgyyeyzax
rmercxeGbbzwxb,ebmezrengrrxdbeyzrryxermenx,elqreZebcmqyieozbcermebvgdx
GyzkxercxebcmkjteGsiesmoeZeozyyengjxercxerczs ekyxgderme.mq;ezrecgb
lxxsegeyms erznxezsercxegkrzs ,elqreozyyesmrergjxenxeyms ermerxyyt

“.mqeizis’rejsmoerczbeixgiengs,eNkKgdrc.teCxeogbegeixazyezskgdsgrxteZ
rxyye.mqercgrte miejxxve.mqemqremhercxekyqrkcxbemhebqkcegengsegbecxt
Czbe dzvecgbelxxseqvmsenxercxbxeroxsr.e.xgdb,egsiecxecgbelygbrxien.
yzhxteZ’yyerxyye.mqehzdbrecmoeZekgnxermelxezseczbevmoxdt

“Zreogbezsercxexgdy.e’60’begrercxeiz  zs bteZeogbege.mqs ekcgvercxs,
cmr-lymmixiegsiedxkjyxbb,edxgi.ermerqdsen.ecgsiegregs.rczs ;eZe mr
gnms elgiekmnvgszmsb,ermmjermeidzsj,ecgiesmeyqkjeozrcen.ekygzn,ermmjerm
rcxelqbc,egsiezsegeomdielxkgnxeocgre.mqeomqyiekgyyemaxdecxdxegecz cog.
dmllxdteRcxdxeoxdxebzpemheqb,egsieoxecgiegeozyi,ehdxxeyzhxemhezr,
brzkjzs eqvegebrgrzmsehdmnerznxermerznx,emdebrmvvzs ercxeog msbemsercx
dmgiermercxeiz  zs bteLygkjeFgkjemheLgyygdgreogbercxesgnxeZeoxsreqsixd,
gsiemqdevgdr.ezbebrzyyedxnxnlxdxiezsercxekmyms.egbercxeLgyygdgre gs t

“Msxeig.ege myiekmsam.ekgnxeimosehdmneLgyygdgrermeNxylmqdsx,egsieoxeyg.
zseogzrehmdezregsiegrrgkjxiezrteRcxdxeoxdxebzperdmmvxdbegsiebzpemheqb,
bmezreogbegekymbxerczs ,elqreoxexnvrzxiehmqdemhercxzdebgiiyxbegrercx
hzdbreamyyx.teRcdxxemhemqdelm.beoxdxejzyyxi,ecmoxaxd,elxhmdxeoxe mrercx
bog teZevqren.evzbrmyermercxecxgiemhercxeog ms-idzaxd,eocmeogberczb
axd.engseNkKgdrc.teZeozbcermercxeYmdiercgreZecgiebcmrecznercxs,elqreZ
bvgdxieczn,ercmq ceZebgoeczbeozkjxieyzrryxex.xbehzpxiemsen.ehgkx,egb
rcmq cermedxnxnlxdexaxd.ehxgrqdxteOxe mregog.eozrcercxe myi,elxkgnx
oxgyrc.enxs,egsiengixemqdeog.emaxdermeXs ygsieozrcmqrelxzs ebqbvxkrxit
RcxdxeZevgdrxiehdmnen.emyievgybegsieixrxdnzsxiermebxrryxeimosermeg
uqzxregsiedxbvxkrglyxeyzhxteZelmq crerczbexbrgrx,eoczkcekcgskxiermelx
zsercxengdjxr,egsieZebxren.bxyhermeimegeyzrryxe mmieozrcen.enmsx.,erm
ngjxeqvehmdercxeog.ezseoczkceZecgiexgdsxiezrteZengddzxi,ermm,egsi
rcmq cen.eozhxeizxie.mqs ebcxeyxhrenxen.eixgdeyzrryxeGyzkxteXaxseocxs
bcxeogbefqbregelgl.ecxdeoxxecgsiebxxnxiermeyxgienxeimosercxedz crevgrc
gbesmrczs exybxecgiexaxdeimsxteZsegeomdi,eZerqdsxiemaxdegesxoeyxghegsi
izien.elxbrermengjxeqvehmdercxevgbrteGyyeogbe mzs eoxyyeocxseNkKgdrc.
ygzieczbe dzveqvmsenxt

“Zecgie msxeqvermermoseglmqregsezsaxbrnxsr,egsieZenxrecznezseDx xsr
Brdxxreozrcecgdiy.egekmgrermeczbelgkjemdegelmmrermeczbehmmrt

“‘Cxdxeoxegdx,eFgkj,’ebg.becx,ermqkczs enxemsercxegdn;e‘ox’yyelxegb
 mmiegbegehgnzy.erme.mqteRcxdx’beromemheqb,enxegsien.ebms,egsie.mqekgs
cgaxercxejxxvzs emheqbteZhe.mqeims’r—zr’begehzsx,eygo-glzizs ekmqsrd.
zbeXs ygsi,egsiercxdx’begyog.begevmyzkxngseozrczsecgzyt’

“Oxyy,eimosercx.ekgnxermercxeoxbrekmqsrd.,ercxdxeogbesmebcgjzs ercxn
mhh,egsiercxdxercx.ecgaxeyzaxiedxsrehdxxemsen.elxbreygsiexaxdebzskxt
Rcxdxeogbesmedxbrehmdenx,esmevxgkx,esmehmd xrhqysxbb;erqdseocxdxeZ
omqyi,ercxdxeogbeczbekqsszs ,e dzsszs ehgkxegren.exylmoteZre dxoeomdbx
gbeGyzkxe dxoeqv,ehmdecxebmmsebgoeZeogbenmdxeghdgziemhecxdejsmozs en.
vgbrercgsemhercxevmyzkxteOcgrxaxdecxeogsrxiecxenqbrecgax,egsieocgrxaxd
zreogbeZe gaxeczneozrcmqreuqxbrzms,eygsi,enmsx.,ecmqbxb,eqsrzyegreygbr
cxegbjxiegerczs eoczkceZekmqyiesmre zaxteCxegbjxiehmdeGyzkxt

“Czbebms,e.mqebxx,ecgie dmoseqv,egsiebmecgien.e zdy,egsiegbeZeogbejsmos
rmelxezseoxgjecxgyrc,ezrebxxnxiegehzsxebrdmjxermecznercgreczbeygi
bcmqyiebrxvezsrmercxeocmyxevdmvxdr.teLqrercxdxeZeogbehzdnteZeomqyiesmr
cgaxeczbekqdbxiebrmkjenzpxieozrcenzsx;esmrercgreZecgiegs.eizbyzjxerm
rcxeygi,elqreczbelymmieogbezseczn,egsiercgreogbexsmq cteZebrmmiehzdnt
NkKgdrc.ercdxgrxsxiteZeldgaxiecznermeimeczbeomdbrteOxeoxdxermenxxregr
rcxevmmyenziog.elxroxxsemqdecmqbxbermergyjezremaxdt

“OcxseZeoxsreimosercxdxeZehmqsiecznergyjzs eozrceczbebms,ebmeZebnmjxieg
kz gdegsieogzrxielxczsiegerdxxeqsrzyecxebcmqyielxegymsxteLqregbeZ
yzbrxsxiermeczbergyjegyyercgreogbelygkjegsielzrrxdezsenxebxxnxiermekmnx
qvvxdnmbrteCxeogbeqd zs eczbebmsermengdd.en.eigq crxdeozrcegbeyzrryx
dx gdiehmdeocgrebcxenz crerczsjegbezhebcxeoxdxegebyqrehdmnemhhercx
brdxxrbteZreidmaxenxengiermerczsjercgreZegsiegyyercgreZecxyienmbreixgd
bcmqyielxezsercxevmoxdemhebqkcegengsegberczbteKmqyieZesmrebsgvercx
lmsi?eZeogbegydxgi.egei.zs egsiegeixbvxdgrxengsteRcmq cekyxgdemhenzsi
gsiehgzdy.ebrdms emheyznl,eZejsxoercgren.emosehgrxeogbebxgyxiteLqren.
nxnmd.egsien.e zdy!eLmrcekmqyielxebgaxiezheZekmqyielqrebzyxskxercgr
hmqyerms qxteZeiziezr,eNdteCmynxbteZeomqyieimezreg gzsteIxxvy.egbeZ
cgaxebzssxi,eZecgaxeyxiegeyzhxemhengdr.dimnermegrmsxehmdezrteLqrercgr
n.e zdyebcmqyielxexsrgs yxiezsercxebgnxenxbcxbeoczkcecxyienxeogbenmdx
rcgseZekmqyiebqhhxdteZebrdqkjeczneimoseozrcesmenmdxekmnvqskrzmsercgsezh
cxecgielxxsebmnxehmqyegsieaxsmnmqbelxgbrteCzbekd.eldmq crelgkjeczbebms;
lqreZecgie gzsxiercxekmaxdemhercxeommi,ercmq ceZeogbehmdkxierme melgkj
rmehxrkcercxekymgjeoczkceZecgieidmvvxiezsen.ehyz crteRcgrezbercxerdqx
brmd.,e xsryxnxs,emhegyyercgremkkqddxit”

“Oxyy,ezrezbesmrehmdenxermefqi xe.mq,”ebgzieCmynxbegbercxemyiengs
bz sxiercxebrgrxnxsreoczkcecgielxxseidgosemqrte“Zevdg.ercgreoxeng.
sxaxdelxexpvmbxiermebqkcegerxnvrgrzmst”

“Zevdg.esmr,ebzdteGsieocgreime.mqezsrxsiermeim?”

“Zseazxoemhe.mqdecxgyrc,esmrczs te.mqegdxe.mqdbxyhegogdxercgre.mqeozyy
bmmsecgaxermegsboxdehmde.mqdeixxiegregecz cxdekmqdrercgsercxeGbbzwxbteZ
ozyyejxxve.mqdekmshxbbzms,egsiezheNkKgdrc.ezbekmsixnsxieZebcgyyelx
hmdkxiermeqbxezrteZhesmr,ezrebcgyyesxaxdelxebxxsel.enmdrgyex.x;egsi
.mqdebxkdxr,eocxrcxde.mqelxegyzaxemdeixgi,ebcgyyelxebghxeozrceqbt”

“Hgdxoxyy,ercxs,”ebgziercxemyiengsebmyxnsy.te“.mqdemoseixgrclxib,eocxs
rcx.ekmnx,eozyyelxercxexgbzxdehmdercxercmq cremhercxevxgkxeoczkce.mq
cgaxe zaxsermenzsxt”eRmrrxdzs egsiebcgjzs ezsegyyeczbe zgsrehdgnx,ecx
brqnlyxiebymoy.ehdmnercxedmmnt

“ miecxyveqb!”ebgzieCmynxbeghrxdegeyms ebzyxskxte“Oc.eimxbehgrxevyg.
bqkcerdzkjbeozrcevmmd,ecxyvyxbbeomdnb?eZesxaxdecxgdemhebqkcegekgbxegb
rczbercgreZeimesmrerczsjemheLgprxd’beomdib,egsiebg.,e‘Rcxdx,elqrehmd
rcxe dgkxemhe mi,e mxbeBcxdymkjeCmynxbt’”

FgnxbeNkKgdrc.eogbegkuqzrrxiegrercxeGbbzwxbemsercxebrdxs rcemhegesqnlxd
mhemlfxkrzmsbeoczkcecgielxxseidgosemqrel.eCmynxbegsiebqlnzrrxiermercx
ixhxsizs ekmqsbxyteMyieRqdsxdeyzaxiehmdebxaxsenmsrcbeghrxdemqd
zsrxdazxo,elqrecxezbesmoeixgi;egsiercxdxezbexaxd.evdmbvxkrercgrercxebms
gsieigq crxdeng.ekmnxermeyzaxecgvvzy.erm xrcxdezsez smdgskxemhercx
lygkjekymqieoczkcedxbrbeqvmsercxzdevgbrt



AteRCXeHZAXeMDGS XeVZVB

OcxseZe ygskxemaxden.esmrxbegsiedxkmdibemhercxeBcxdymkjeCmynxbekgbxb
lxroxxsercxe.xgdbe’82egsie’90,eZegnehgkxiel.ebmengs.eoczkcevdxbxsr
brdgs xegsiezsrxdxbrzs ehxgrqdxbercgrezrezbesmexgb.engrrxdermejsmo
oczkcermekcmmbxegsieoczkcermeyxgaxteBmnx,ecmoxaxd,ecgaxegydxgi.e gzsxi
vqlyzkzr.ercdmq cercxevgvxdb,egsiemrcxdbecgaxesmremhhxdxiegehzxyiehmd
rcmbxevxkqyzgdeuqgyzrzxbeoczkcen.ehdzxsievmbbxbbxiezsebmecz cegeix dxx,
gsieoczkcezrezbercxemlfxkremhercxbxevgvxdbermezyyqbrdgrxteBmnx,ermm,
cgaxelghhyxieczbegsgy.rzkgyebjzyy,egsieomqyielx,egbesgddgrzaxb,
lx zsszs beozrcmqregsexsizs ,eoczyxemrcxdbecgaxelxxselqrevgdrzgyy.
kyxgdxieqv,egsiecgaxercxzdexpvygsgrzmsbehmqsixiedgrcxdeqvmsekmsfxkrqdx
gsiebqdnzbxercgsemsercgreglbmyqrxeym zkgyevdmmheoczkceogbebmeixgderm
cznteRcxdxezb,ecmoxaxd,emsxemhercxbxeygbreoczkceogbebmedxngdjglyxezs
zrbeixrgzybegsiebmebrgdryzs ezsezrbedxbqyrbercgreZegnerxnvrxierme zax
bmnxegkkmqsremhezrezsebvzrxemhercxehgkrercgrercxdxegdxevmzsrbezs
kmssxkrzmseozrcezreoczkcesxaxdecgaxelxxs,egsievdmlgly.esxaxdeozyyelx,
xsrzdxy.ekyxgdxieqvt

Rcxe.xgde’87ehqdszbcxieqbeozrcegeyms ebxdzxbemhekgbxbemhe dxgrxdemd
yxbbezsrxdxbr,emheoczkceZedxrgzsercxedxkmdibteGnms en.ecxgizs beqsixd
rczbemsxeroxyaxenmsrcbeZehzsiegsegkkmqsremhercxegiaxsrqdxemhercx
VgdgimyeKcgnlxd,emhercxeGngrxqdeNxsizkgsreBmkzxr.,eocmecxyiegeyqpqdzmqb
kyqlezsercxeymoxdeagqyremhegehqdszrqdxeogdxcmqbx,emhercxehgkrb
kmssxkrxieozrcercxeymbbemhercxeLdzrzbcelgduqxe_Bmvc.eGsixdbms_,emhercx
bzs qygdegiaxsrqdxbemhercxe dzkxeVgrxdbmsbezsercxezbygsiemheQhhg,egsi
hzsgyy.emhercxeKgnlxdoxyyevmzbmszs ekgbxteZsercxeygrrxd,egbeng.elx
dxnxnlxdxi,eBcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbeglyx,el.eozsizs eqvercxeixgiengs’b
ogrkc,ermevdmaxercgrezrecgielxxseomqsieqveromecmqdbelxhmdx,egsiercgr
rcxdxhmdxercxeixkxgbxiecgie msxermelxieozrczsercgrerznx—geixiqkrzms
oczkceogbemhercxe dxgrxbreznvmdrgskxezsekyxgdzs eqvercxekgbxteGyyercxbx
Zeng.ebjxrkcemqregrebmnxehqrqdxeigrx,elqresmsxemhercxnevdxbxsrebqkc
bzs qygdehxgrqdxbegbercxebrdgs xerdgzsemhekzdkqnbrgskxbeoczkceZecgax
smoergjxseqven.evxsermeixbkdzlxt

Zreogbezsercxeygrrxdeig.bemheBxvrxnlxd,egsiercxexuqzsmkrzgye gyxbecgi
bxrezseozrcexpkxvrzmsgyeazmyxskxteGyyeig.ercxeozsiecgiebkdxgnxiegsiercx
dgzsecgielxgrxseg gzsbrercxeozsimob,ebmercgrexaxsecxdxezsercxecxgdremh
 dxgr,ecgsi-ngixeYmsimseoxeoxdxehmdkxiermedgzbxemqdenzsibehmdercx
zsbrgsrehdmnercxedmqrzsxemheyzhxegsiermedxkm szbxercxevdxbxskxemhercmbx
 dxgrexyxnxsrgyehmdkxbeoczkcebcdzxjegrengsjzsiercdmq cercxelgdbemheczb
kzazyzbgrzms,eyzjxeqsrgnxielxgbrbezsegekg xteGbexaxszs eidxoezs,ercx
brmdne dxoecz cxdegsieymqixd,egsiercxeozsiekdzxiegsiebmllxieyzjxeg
kczyiezsercxekcznsx.teBcxdymkjeCmynxbebgrenmmizy.egremsxebzixemhercx
hzdxvygkxekdmbb-zsixpzs eczbedxkmdibemhekdznx,eoczyxeZegrercxemrcxdeogb
ixxvezsemsxemheKygdjeDqbbxyy’behzsxebxg-brmdzxbeqsrzyercxecmoyemhercx
 gyxehdmneozrcmqrebxxnxiermelyxsieozrcercxerxpr,egsiercxebvygbcemhercx
dgzsermeyxs rcxsemqrezsrmercxeyms ebogbcemhercxebxgeogaxbteN.eozhxeogb
msegeazbzrermecxdenmrcxd’b,egsiehmdegehxoeig.beZeogbegeioxyyxdemskx
nmdxezsen.emyieuqgdrxdbegreLgjxdeBrdxxrt

“Oc.,”ebgzieZ,e ygskzs eqvegren.ekmnvgszms,e“rcgreogbebqdxy.ercxelxyyt
Ocmekmqyiekmnxerm-sz cr?eBmnxehdzxsiemhe.mqdb,evxdcgvb?”

“Xpkxvre.mqdbxyheZecgaxesmsx,”ecxegsboxdxite“Zeimesmrexskmqdg x
azbzrmdbt”

“Gekyzxsr,ercxs?”

“Zhebm,ezrezbegebxdzmqbekgbxteSmrczs eyxbbeomqyieldzs egengsemqrems
bqkcegeig.egsiegrebqkcegsecmqdteLqreZergjxezrercgrezrezbenmdxeyzjxy.erm
lxebmnxekdms.emhercxeygsiygi.’bt”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbeodms ezseczbekmsfxkrqdx,ecmoxaxd,ehmdercxdxekgnxeg
brxvezsercxevgbbg xegsiegergvvzs egrercxeimmdteCxebrdxrkcxiemqreczb
yms egdnermerqdsercxeygnvegog.ehdmnecznbxyhegsiermogdibercxeagkgsr
kcgzdeqvmseoczkcegesxokmnxdenqbrebzrt

“Kmnxezs!”ebgziecxt

Rcxengseocmexsrxdxieogbe.mqs ,ebmnxerom-gsi-roxsr.egrercxemqrbzix,
oxyy- dmmnxiegsierdzny.ekygi,eozrcebmnxrczs emhedxhzsxnxsregsieixyzkgk.
zseczbelxgdzs teRcxebrdxgnzs eqnldxyygeoczkcecxecxyiezseczbecgsi,egsi
czbeyms ebczszs eogrxdvdmmhermyiemhercxehzxdkxeoxgrcxdercdmq ceoczkcecx
cgiekmnxteCxeymmjxieglmqrecznegspzmqby.ezsercxe ygdxemhercxeygnv,egsieZ
kmqyiebxxercgreczbehgkxeogbevgyxegsieczbex.xbecxga.,eyzjxercmbxemheg
ngseocmezbeoxz cxieimoseozrcebmnxe dxgregspzxr.t

“Zemoxe.mqegsegvmym .,”ecxebgzi,edgzbzs eczbe myixsevzskx-sxwermeczb
x.xbte“ZerdqbrercgreZegnesmrezsrdqizs teZehxgdercgreZecgaxeldmq crebmnx
rdgkxbemhercxebrmdnegsiedgzsezsrme.mqdebsq ekcgnlxdt”

“ zaxenxe.mqdekmgregsieqnldxyyg,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Rcx.eng.edxbrecxdxems
rcxecmmjegsieozyyelxeid.evdxbxsry.te.mqecgaxekmnxeqvehdmnercx
bmqrc-oxbr,eZebxxt”

“.xb,ehdmneCmdbcgnt”

“Rcgrekyg.egsiekcgyjenzprqdxeoczkceZebxxeqvmse.mqdermxekgvbezbeuqzrx
izbrzskrzaxt”

“Zecgaxekmnxehmdegiazkxt”

“Rcgrezbexgbzy.e mrt”

“Gsiecxyvt”

“Rcgrezbesmregyog.bebmexgb.t”

“Zecgaxecxgdiemhe.mq,eNdteCmynxbteZecxgdiehdmneNgfmdeVdxsixd gbrecmo
.mqebgaxiecznezsercxeRgsjxdazyyxeKyqlebkgsigyt”

“Gc,emhekmqdbxteCxeogbeodms hqyy.egkkqbxiemhekcxgrzs egrekgdibt”

“Cxebgziercgre.mqekmqyiebmyaxegs.rczs t”

“Cxebgziermmenqkct”

“Rcgre.mqegdxesxaxdelxgrxst”

“Zecgaxelxxselxgrxsehmqderznxb—rcdxxerznxbel.enxs,egsiemskxel.eg
omngst”

“Lqreocgrezbercgrekmnvgdxieozrcercxesqnlxdemhe.mqdebqkkxbbxb?”

“ZrezberdqxercgreZecgaxelxxse xsxdgyy.ebqkkxbbhqyt”

“Rcxse.mqeng.elxebmeozrcenxt”

“Zelx ercgre.mqeozyyeidgoe.mqdekcgzdeqvermercxehzdxegsiehgamqdenxeozrc
bmnxeixrgzybegberme.mqdekgbxt”

“Zrezbesmemdizsgd.emsxt”

“SmsxemhercmbxeoczkcekmnxermenxegdxteZegnercxeygbrekmqdremhegvvxgyt”

“Gsie.xreZeuqxbrzms,ebzd,eocxrcxd,ezsegyye.mqdexpvxdzxskx,e.mqecgax
xaxdeyzbrxsxiermegenmdxen.brxdzmqbegsiezsxpvyzkglyxekcgzsemhexaxsrb
rcgsercmbxeoczkcecgaxecgvvxsxiezsen.emosehgnzy.t”

“.mqehzyyenxeozrcezsrxdxbr,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Vdg.e zaxeqbercxexbbxsrzgy
hgkrbehdmnercxekmnnxskxnxsr,egsieZekgseghrxdogdibeuqxbrzmse.mqegberm
rcmbxeixrgzybeoczkcebxxnermenxermelxenmbreznvmdrgsrt”

Rcxe.mqs engsevqyyxieczbekcgzdeqvegsievqbcxieczbeoxrehxxremqrermogdib
rcxelygwxt

“N.esgnx,”ebgziecx,e“zbeFmcseMvxsbcgo,elqren.emoseghhgzdbecgax,egbehgd
gbeZekgseqsixdbrgsi,eyzrryxermeimeozrcerczbegohqyelqbzsxbbteZrezbeg
cxdxizrgd.engrrxd;ebmezsemdixderme zaxe.mqegsezixgemhercxehgkrb,eZenqbr
 melgkjermercxekmnnxskxnxsremhercxeghhgzdt

“.mqenqbrejsmoercgren.e dgsihgrcxdecgieromebmsb—n.eqskyxeXyzgbegsien.
hgrcxdeFmbxvcteN.ehgrcxdecgiegebngyyehgkrmd.egreKmaxsrd.,eoczkcecx
xsygd xiegrercxerznxemhercxezsaxsrzmsemhelzk.kyzs teCxeogbegevgrxsrxx
mhercxeMvxsbcgoeqsldxgjglyxerzdx,egsieczbelqbzsxbbenxreozrcebqkc
bqkkxbbercgrecxeogbeglyxermebxyyezregsiermedxrzdxeqvmsegecgsibmnx
kmnvxrxskxt

“N.eqskyxeXyzgbexnz dgrxiermeGnxdzkgeocxsecxeogbege.mqs engsegsielxkgnx
gevygsrxdezseHymdzig,eocxdxecxeogbedxvmdrxiermecgaxeimsxeaxd.eoxyyteGr
rcxerznxemhercxeogdecxehmq crezseFgkjbms’begdn.,egsieghrxdogdibeqsixd
Cmmi,eocxdxecxedmbxermelxegekmymsxyteOcxseYxxeygzieimoseczbegdnben.
qskyxedxrqdsxiermeczbevygsrgrzms,eocxdxecxedxngzsxiehmdercdxxemdehmqd
.xgdbteGlmqre1869emde1870ecxekgnxelgkjermeXqdmvxegsiermmjegebngyy
xbrgrxezseBqbbxp,esxgdeCmdbcgnteCxecgiengixegeaxd.ekmsbzixdglyxehmdrqsx
zsercxeBrgrxb,egsieczbedxgbmsehmdeyxgazs ercxneogbeczbegaxdbzmsermercx
sx dmxb,egsieczbeizbyzjxemhercxeDxvqlyzkgsevmyzk.ezsexprxsizs ercx
hdgskczbxermercxnteCxeogbegebzs qygdengs,ehzxdkxegsieuqzkj-rxnvxdxi,
axd.ehmqy-nmqrcxieocxsecxeogbegs d.,egsiemhegenmbredxrzdzs 
izbvmbzrzmsteIqdzs egyyercxe.xgdbercgrecxeyzaxiegreCmdbcgn,eZeimqlrezh
xaxdecxebxrehmmrezsercxermosteCxecgiege gdixsegsieromemdercdxxehzxyib
dmqsieczbecmqbx,egsiercxdxecxeomqyiergjxeczbexpxdkzbx,ercmq ceaxd.
mhrxsehmdeoxxjbemsexsiecxeomqyiesxaxdeyxgaxeczbedmmnteCxeidgsjege dxgr
ixgyemheldgsi.egsiebnmjxieaxd.ecxgazy.,elqrecxeomqyiebxxesmebmkzxr.egsi
iziesmreogsregs.ehdzxsib,esmrexaxseczbemoseldmrcxdt

“Cxeizis’renzsienx;ezsehgkr,ecxermmjegehgsk.ermenx,ehmdegrercxerznx
ocxsecxebgoenxehzdbreZeogbege.mqs brxdemheroxyaxemdebmteRczbeomqyielx
zsercxe.xgde1878,eghrxdecxecgielxxsexz cremdeszsxe.xgdbezseXs ygsiteCx
lx  xien.ehgrcxdermeyxrenxeyzaxeozrcecznegsiecxeogbeaxd.ejzsiermenxezs
czbeog.teOcxsecxeogbebmlxdecxeqbxiermelxehmsiemhevyg.zs elgkj gnnmsegsi
idgq crbeozrcenx,egsiecxeomqyiengjxenxeczbedxvdxbxsrgrzaxelmrceozrcercx
bxdagsrbegsieozrcercxerdgixbvxmvyx,ebmercgrel.ercxerznxercgreZeogb
bzprxxseZeogbeuqzrxengbrxdemhercxecmqbxteZejxvregyyercxejx.begsiekmqyi
 meocxdxeZeyzjxiegsieimeocgreZeyzjxi,ebmeyms egbeZeiziesmreizbrqdleczn
zseczbevdzagk.teRcxdxeogbemsxebzs qygdexpkxvrzms,ecmoxaxd,ehmdecxecgieg
bzs yxedmmn,egeyqnlxd-dmmneqvegnms ercxegrrzkb,eoczkceogbezsagdzgly.
ymkjxi,egsieoczkcecxeomqyiesxaxdevxdnzrexzrcxdenxemdegs.msxexybxerm
xsrxdteOzrcegelm.’bekqdzmbzr.eZecgaxevxxvxiercdmq cercxejx.cmyx,elqreZ
ogbesxaxdeglyxermebxxenmdxercgsebqkcegekmyyxkrzmsemhemyierdqsjbegsi
lqsiyxbegbeomqyielxexpvxkrxiezsebqkcegedmmnt

“Msxeig.—zreogbezseNgdkc,e1883—geyxrrxdeozrcegehmdxz sebrgnveyg.eqvms
rcxerglyxezsehdmsremhercxekmymsxy’bevygrxteZreogbesmregekmnnmserczs 
hmdecznermedxkxzaxeyxrrxdb,ehmdeczbelzyybeoxdxegyyevgziezsedxgi.enmsx.,
gsiecxecgiesmehdzxsibemhegs.ebmdrte‘HdmneZsizg!’ebgziecxegbecxermmjezr
qv,e‘Vmsizkcxdd.evmbrngdj!eOcgrekgserczbelx?’eMvxszs ezrecqddzxiy.,emqr
rcxdxefqnvxiehzaxeyzrryxeidzxiemdgs xevzvb,eoczkcevgrrxdxieimoseqvms
czbevygrxteZelx gsermeygq cegrerczb,elqrercxeygq ceogbebrdqkjehdmnen.
yzvbegrercxebz cremheczbehgkxteCzbeyzvecgiehgyyxs,eczbex.xbeoxdx
vdmrdqizs ,eczbebjzsercxekmymqdemhevqrr.,egsiecxe ygdxiegrercxexsaxymvx
oczkcecxebrzyyecxyiezseczberdxnlyzs ecgsi,e‘JteJteJt!’ecxebcdzxjxi,egsi
rcxs,e‘N.e mi,en.e mi,en.ebzsbecgaxemaxdrgjxsenx!’

“‘Ocgrezbezr,eqskyx?’eZekdzxit

“‘Ixgrc,’ebgziecx,egsiedzbzs ehdmnercxerglyxecxedxrzdxiermeczbedmmn,
yxgazs enxevgyvzrgrzs eozrcecmddmdteZermmjeqvercxexsaxymvxegsiebgo
bkdgoyxiezsedxiezsjeqvmsercxezssxdehygv,efqbreglmaxercxe qn,ercxeyxrrxd
JercdxxerznxbedxvxgrxiteRcxdxeogbesmrczs exybxebgaxercxehzaxeidzxi
vzvbteOcgrekmqyielxercxedxgbmsemheczbemaxdvmoxdzs erxddmd?eZeyxhrercx
ldxgjhgbr-rglyx,egsiegbeZegbkxsixiercxebrgzdeZenxrecznekmnzs eimoseozrc
gsemyiedqbr.ejx.,eoczkcenqbrecgaxelxyms xiermercxegrrzk,ezsemsxecgsi,
gsiegebngyyeldgbbelmp,eyzjxegekgbclmp,ezsercxemrcxdt

“‘Rcx.eng.eimeocgrercx.eyzjx,elqreZ’yyekcxkjngrxercxnebrzyy,’ebgziecx
ozrcegsemgrcte‘RxyyeNgd.ercgreZebcgyyeogsregehzdxezsen.edmmnerm-ig.,
gsiebxsieimosermeHmdicgn,ercxeCmdbcgneygo.xdt’

“Zeiziegbecxemdixdxi,egsieocxsercxeygo.xdegddzaxieZeogbegbjxiermebrxv
qvermercxedmmnteRcxehzdxeogbelqdszs eldz cry.,egsiezsercxe dgrxercxdx
ogbegengbbemhelygkj,ehyqhh.egbcxb,egbemhelqdsxievgvxd,eoczyxercxeldgbb
lmpebrmmiemvxsegsiexnvr.elxbzixezrteGbeZe ygskxiegrercxelmpeZesmrzkxi,
ozrcegebrgdr,ercgreqvmsercxeyzieogbevdzsrxiercxerdxlyxeJeoczkceZecgi
dxgiezsercxenmdszs eqvmsercxexsaxymvxt

“‘Zeozbce.mq,eFmcs,’ebgzien.eqskyx,e‘rmeozrsxbben.eozyyteZeyxgaxen.
xbrgrx,eozrcegyyezrbegiagsrg xbegsiegyyezrbeizbgiagsrg xb,ermen.
ldmrcxd,e.mqdehgrcxd,eocxskxezreozyy,esmeimqlr,eixbkxsierme.mqteZhe.mq
kgsexsfm.ezrezsevxgkx,eoxyyegsie mmi!eZhe.mqehzsie.mqekgssmr,ergjxen.
giazkx,en.elm.,egsieyxgaxezrerme.mqdeixgiyzxbrexsxn.teZegnebmdd.erm
 zaxe.mqebqkcegerom-xi xierczs ,elqreZekgs’rebg.eocgrerqdserczs begdx
 mzs ermergjxteJzsiy.ebz sercxevgvxdeocxdxeNdteHmdicgnebcmobe.mqt’

“Zebz sxiercxevgvxdegbeizdxkrxi,egsiercxeygo.xdermmjezregog.eozrcecznt
Rcxebzs qygdezskzixsrengix,egbe.mqeng.erczsj,ercxeixxvxbreznvdxbbzms
qvmsenx,egsieZevmsixdxiemaxdezregsierqdsxiezrexaxd.eog.ezsen.enzsi
ozrcmqrelxzs eglyxermengjxegs.rczs emhezrte.xreZekmqyiesmrebcgjxemhh
rcxeag qxehxxyzs emheidxgieoczkcezreyxhrelxczsi,ercmq cercxebxsbgrzms
 dxoeyxbbejxxsegbercxeoxxjbevgbbxiegsiesmrczs ecgvvxsxiermeizbrqdlercx
qbqgyedmqrzsxemhemqdeyzaxbteZekmqyiebxxegekcgs xezsen.eqskyx,ecmoxaxdt
Cxeidgsjenmdxercgsexaxd,egsiecxeogbeyxbbezskyzsxiehmdegs.ebmdremh
bmkzxr.teNmbremheczberznxecxeomqyiebvxsiezseczbedmmn,eozrcercxeimmd
ymkjxieqvmsercxezsbzix,elqrebmnxrznxbecxeomqyiexnxd xezsegebmdremh
idqsjxsehdxsw.egsieomqyielqdbremqremhercxecmqbxegsierxgdeglmqrercx
 gdixseozrcegedxamyaxdezseczbecgsi,ebkdxgnzs emqrercgrecxeogbeghdgziemh
smengs,egsiercgrecxeogbesmrermelxekmmvxieqv,eyzjxegebcxxvezsegevxs,el.
ngsemdeixazyteOcxsercxbxecmrehzrbeoxdxemaxd,ecmoxaxd,ecxeomqyiedqbc
rqnqyrqmqby.ezsegrercxeimmdegsieymkjegsielgdezrelxczsieczn,eyzjxegengs
ocmekgseldgwxsezremqresmeyms xdeg gzsbrercxerxddmdeoczkceyzxbegrercx
dmmrbemheczbebmqyteGrebqkcerznxbeZecgaxebxxseczbehgkx,exaxsemsegekmyi
ig.,e yzbrxseozrcenmzbrqdx,egbercmq cezreoxdxesxoedgzbxiehdmnegelgbzst

“Oxyy,ermekmnxermegsexsiemhercxengrrxd,eNdteCmynxb,egsiesmrermeglqbx
.mqdevgrzxskx,ercxdxekgnxegesz creocxsecxengixemsxemhercmbxeidqsjxs
bgyyzxbehdmneoczkcecxesxaxdekgnxelgkjteOxehmqsieczn,eocxseoxeoxsrerm
bxgdkcehmdeczn,ehgkxeimosogdiezsegeyzrryxe dxxs-bkqnnxievmmy,eoczkceyg.
grercxehmmremhercxe gdixsteRcxdxeogbesmebz semhegs.eazmyxskx,egsiercx
ogrxdeogbelqreromehxxreixxv,ebmercgrercxefqd.,ecgazs edx gdiermeczb
jsmosexkkxsrdzkzr.,eldmq crezsegeaxdizkremhe‘bqzkzixt’eLqreZ,eocmejsxo
cmoecxeozskxiehdmnercxeaxd.ercmq cremheixgrc,ecgienqkcegimermevxdbqgix
n.bxyhercgrecxecgie msxemqremheczbeog.ermenxxrezrteRcxengrrxdevgbbxi,
cmoxaxd,egsien.ehgrcxdexsrxdxiezsrmevmbbxbbzmsemhercxexbrgrx,egsiemh
bmnxe£e14,000,eoczkceyg.ermeczbekdxizregrercxelgsjt”

“Msxenmnxsr,”eCmynxbezsrxdvmbxi,e“.mqdebrgrxnxsrezb,eZehmdxbxx,emsxemh
rcxenmbredxngdjglyxermeoczkceZecgaxexaxdeyzbrxsxiteYxrenxecgaxercxeigrx
mhercxedxkxvrzmsel.e.mqdeqskyxemhercxeyxrrxd,egsiercxeigrxemheczb
bqvvmbxiebqzkzixt”

“RcxeyxrrxdegddzaxiemseNgdkce10,e1883teCzbeixgrceogbebxaxseoxxjbeygrxd,
qvmsercxesz cremheNg.e2sit”

“Rcgsje.mqteVdg.evdmkxxit”

“Ocxsen.ehgrcxdermmjemaxdercxeCmdbcgnevdmvxdr.,ecx,egren.edxuqxbr,engix
gekgdxhqyexpgnzsgrzmsemhercxegrrzk,eoczkcecgielxxsegyog.beymkjxieqvteOx
hmqsiercxeldgbbelmpercxdx,egyrcmq cezrbekmsrxsrbecgielxxseixbrdm.xiteMs
rcxezsbzixemhercxekmaxdeogbegevgvxdeyglxy,eozrcercxezszrzgybemheJteJt
Jtedxvxgrxieqvmsezr,egsie‘Yxrrxdb,enxnmdgsig,edxkxzvrb,egsiegedx zbrxd’
odzrrxselxsxgrcteRcxbx,eoxevdxbqnx,ezsizkgrxiercxesgrqdxemhercxevgvxdb
oczkcecgielxxseixbrdm.xiel.eKmymsxyeMvxsbcgoteHmdercxedxbr,ercxdxeogb
smrczs emhenqkceznvmdrgskxezsercxegrrzkebgaxege dxgrengs.ebkgrrxdxi
vgvxdbegsiesmrx-lmmjbelxgdzs eqvmsen.eqskyx’beyzhxezseGnxdzkgteBmnxemh
rcxneoxdxemhercxeogderznxegsiebcmoxiercgrecxecgieimsxeczbeiqr.eoxyyegsi
cgielmdsxercxedxvqrxemhegeldgaxebmyizxdteMrcxdbeoxdxemhegeigrxeiqdzs 
rcxedxkmsbrdqkrzmsemhercxeBmqrcxdsebrgrxb,egsieoxdxenmbry.ekmskxdsxi
ozrcevmyzrzkb,ehmdecxecgiexazixsry.ergjxsegebrdms evgdrezsemvvmbzs ercx
kgdvxr-lg evmyzrzkzgsbeocmecgielxxsebxsreimosehdmnercxeSmdrct

“Oxyy,ezreogbercxelx zsszs emhe’84eocxsen.ehgrcxdekgnxermeyzaxegr
Cmdbcgn,egsiegyyeoxsregbeoxyyegbevmbbzlyxeozrceqbeqsrzyercxeFgsqgd.emh
’85teMsercxehmqdrceig.eghrxdercxesxoe.xgdeZecxgdien.ehgrcxde zaxeg
bcgdvekd.emhebqdvdzbxegbeoxebgrerm xrcxdegrercxeldxgjhgbr-rglyxteRcxdx
cxeogb,ebzrrzs eozrcegesxoy.emvxsxiexsaxymvxezsemsxecgsiegsiehzaxeidzxi
mdgs xevzvbezsercxemqrbrdxrkcxievgynemhercxemrcxdemsxteCxecgiegyog.b
ygq cxiegreocgrecxekgyyxien.ekmkj-gsi-lqyyebrmd.eglmqrercxekmymsxy,elqr
cxeymmjxieaxd.ebkgdxiegsievqwwyxiesmoercgrercxebgnxerczs ecgiekmnxeqvms
cznbxyht

“‘Oc.,eocgremsexgdrceimxberczbenxgs,eFmcs?’ecxebrgnnxdxit

“N.ecxgdrecgierqdsxiermeyxgite‘ZrezbeJteJteJt,’ebgzieZt

“Cxeymmjxiezsbzixercxexsaxymvxte‘Bmezrezb,’ecxekdzxite‘Cxdxegdxercx
axd.eyxrrxdbteLqreocgrezberczbeodzrrxseglmaxercxn?’

“‘Vqrercxevgvxdbemsercxebqsizgy,’eZedxgi,evxxvzs emaxdeczbebcmqyixdt

“‘Ocgrevgvxdb?eOcgrebqsizgy?’ecxegbjxit

“‘Rcxebqsizgyezsercxe gdixsteRcxdxezbesmemrcxd,’ebgzieZ;e‘lqrercx
vgvxdbenqbrelxercmbxercgregdxeixbrdm.xit’

“‘Vmmc!’ebgziecx,e dzvvzs ecgdiegreczbekmqdg xte‘Oxegdxezsegekzazyzbxi
ygsiecxdx,egsieoxekgs’recgaxermnhmmyxd.emherczbejzsiteOcxdxeimxbercx
rczs ekmnxehdmn?’

“‘HdmneIqsixx,’eZegsboxdxi,e ygskzs egrercxevmbrngdjt

“‘Bmnxevdxvmbrxdmqbevdgkrzkgyefmjx,’ebgziecxte‘OcgrecgaxeZermeimeozrc
bqsizgybegsievgvxdb?eZebcgyyergjxesmesmrzkxemhebqkcesmsbxsbxt’

“‘Zebcmqyiekxdrgzsy.ebvxgjermercxevmyzkx,’eZebgzit

“‘Gsielxeygq cxiegrehmden.evgzsbteSmrczs emhercxebmdrt’

“‘Rcxseyxrenxeimebm?’

“‘Sm,eZehmdlzie.mqteZeoms’recgaxegehqbbengixeglmqrebqkcesmsbxsbxt’

“Zreogbezseagzsermegd qxeozrceczn,ehmdecxeogbegeaxd.emlbrzsgrxengsteZ
oxsreglmqr,ecmoxaxd,eozrcegecxgdreoczkceogbehqyyemhehmdxlmizs bt

“Msercxerczdieig.eghrxdercxekmnzs emhercxeyxrrxden.ehgrcxdeoxsrehdmn
cmnxermeazbzregsemyiehdzxsiemheczb,eNgfmdeHdxxlmi.,eocmezbezsekmnngsi
mhemsxemhercxehmdrbeqvmseVmdrbimoseCzyyteZeogbe ygiercgrecxebcmqyie m,
hmdezrebxxnxiermenxercgrecxeogbehgdrcxdehdmneigs xdeocxsecxeogbegog.
hdmnecmnxteZsercgr,ecmoxaxd,eZeogbezsexddmdteQvmsercxebxkmsieig.emheczb
glbxskxeZedxkxzaxiegerxyx dgnehdmnercxengfmd,eznvymdzs enxermekmnxegr
mskxteN.ehgrcxdecgiehgyyxsemaxdemsxemhercxeixxvekcgyj-vzrbeoczkceglmqsi
zsercxesxz clmqdcmmi,egsieogbey.zs ebxsbxyxbb,eozrcegebcgrrxdxiebjqyyt
Zecqddzxiermeczn,elqrecxevgbbxiegog.eozrcmqrecgazs exaxdedxkmaxdxieczb
kmsbkzmqbsxbbteCxecgi,egbezregvvxgdb,elxxsedxrqdszs ehdmneHgdxcgnezs
rcxerozyz cr,egsiegbercxekmqsrd.eogbeqsjsmosermeczn,egsiercxekcgyj-vzr
qshxskxi,ercxefqd.ecgiesmecxbzrgrzmsezseldzs zs ezsegeaxdizkremhe‘ixgrc
hdmnegkkzixsrgyekgqbxbt’eKgdxhqyy.egbeZexpgnzsxiexaxd.ehgkrekmssxkrxi
ozrceczbeixgrc,eZeogbeqsglyxermehzsiegs.rczs eoczkcekmqyiebq  xbrercx
zixgemhenqdixdteRcxdxeoxdxesmebz sbemheazmyxskx,esmehmmrngdjb,esm
dmllxd.,esmedxkmdiemhebrdgs xdbecgazs elxxsebxxseqvmsercxedmgibteGsi
.xreZesxxiesmrerxyye.mqercgren.enzsieogbehgdehdmnegrexgbx,egsiercgreZ
ogbeoxyy-sz cekxdrgzsercgrebmnxehmqyevymrecgielxxseomaxsedmqsiecznt

“Zserczbebzszbrxdeog.eZekgnxezsrmen.ezscxdzrgskxte.mqeozyyegbjenxeoc.eZ
iziesmreizbvmbxemhezr?eZegsboxd,elxkgqbxeZeogbeoxyyekmsazskxiercgremqd
rdmqlyxbeoxdxezsebmnxeog.eixvxsixsreqvmsegsezskzixsrezsen.eqskyx’b
yzhx,egsiercgrercxeigs xdeomqyielxegbevdxbbzs ezsemsxecmqbxegbezs
gsmrcxdt

“ZreogbezseFgsqgd.,e’85,ercgren.evmmdehgrcxdenxreczbexsi,egsierome.xgdb
gsiexz crenmsrcbecgaxexygvbxiebzskxercxsteIqdzs ercgrerznxeZecgaxeyzaxi
cgvvzy.egreCmdbcgn,egsieZecgielx qsermecmvxercgrerczbekqdbxecgievgbbxi
gog.ehdmnercxehgnzy.,egsiercgrezrecgiexsixieozrcercxeygbre xsxdgrzmsteZ
cgielx qsermergjxekmnhmdrermmebmms,ecmoxaxd;e.xbrxdig.enmdszs ercxelymo
hxyyezsercxeaxd.ebcgvxezseoczkcezrecgiekmnxeqvmsen.ehgrcxdt”

Rcxe.mqs engsermmjehdmneczbeogzbrkmgregekdqnvyxiexsaxymvx,egsierqdszs 
rmercxerglyxecxebcmmjemqreqvmsezrehzaxeyzrryxeidzxiemdgs xevzvbt

“Rczbezbercxexsaxymvx,”ecxekmsrzsqxite“RcxevmbrngdjezbeYmsims—xgbrxds
izazbzmsteOzrczsegdxercxeaxd.eomdibeoczkceoxdxeqvmsen.ehgrcxd’beygbr
nxbbg x:e‘JteJteJt’;egsiercxse‘Vqrercxevgvxdbemsercxebqsizgyt’”

“Ocgrecgaxe.mqeimsx?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“Smrczs t”

“Smrczs ?”

“Rmerxyyercxerdqrc”—cxebgsjeczbehgkxezsrmeczberczs,eoczrxecgsib—“Zecgax
hxyrecxyvyxbbteZecgaxehxyreyzjxemsxemhercmbxevmmdedgllzrbeocxsercx
bsgjxezbeodzrczs ermogdibezrteZebxxnermelxezsercxe dgbvemhebmnx
dxbzbryxbb,ezsxpmdglyxexazy,eoczkcesmehmdxbz cregsiesmevdxkgqrzmsbekgs
 qgdieg gzsbrt”

“Rqr!erqr!”ekdzxieBcxdymkjeCmynxbte“.mqenqbregkr,engs,emde.mqegdxeymbrt
Smrczs elqrexsxd .ekgsebgaxe.mqteRczbezbesmerznxehmdeixbvgzdt”

“Zecgaxebxxsercxevmyzkxt”

“Gc!”

“Lqrercx.eyzbrxsxiermen.ebrmd.eozrcegebnzyxteZegnekmsazskxiercgrercx
zsbvxkrmdecgbehmdnxiercxemvzszmsercgrercxeyxrrxdbegdxegyyevdgkrzkgy
fmjxb,egsiercgrercxeixgrcbemhen.edxygrzmsbeoxdxedxgyy.egkkzixsrb,egb
rcxefqd.ebrgrxi,egsieoxdxesmrermelxekmssxkrxieozrcercxeogdszs bt”

Cmynxbebcmmjeczbekyxskcxiecgsibezsercxegzdte“Zskdxizlyxeznlxkzyzr.!”ecx
kdzxit

“Rcx.ecgax,ecmoxaxd,egyymoxienxegevmyzkxngs,eocmeng.edxngzsezsercx
cmqbxeozrcenxt”

“Cgbecxekmnxeozrce.mqerm-sz cr?”

“SmteCzbemdixdbeoxdxermebrg.ezsercxecmqbxt”

G gzseCmynxbedgaxiezsercxegzdt

“Oc.eizie.mqekmnxermenx?”ecxebgzi,e“gsi,eglmaxegyy,eoc.eizie.mqesmr
kmnxegremskx?”

“ZeiziesmrejsmoteZreogbemsy.erm-ig.ercgreZebvmjxermeNgfmdeVdxsixd gbr
glmqren.erdmqlyxbegsieogbegiazbxiel.ecznermekmnxerme.mqt”

“Zrezbedxgyy.eromeig.bebzskxe.mqecgiercxeyxrrxdteOxebcmqyiecgaxegkrxi
lxhmdxerczbte.mqecgaxesmehqdrcxdexazixskx,eZebqvvmbx,ercgsercgreoczkc
.mqecgaxevygkxielxhmdxeqb—smebq  xbrzaxeixrgzyeoczkcenz crecxyveqb?”

“Rcxdxezbemsxerczs ,”ebgzieFmcseMvxsbcgoteCxedqnng xiezseczbekmgr
vmkjxr,egsi,eidgozs emqregevzxkxemheizbkmymqdxi,elyqx-rzsrxievgvxd,ecx
ygziezremqreqvmsercxerglyxte“Zecgaxebmnxedxnxnldgskx,”ebgziecx,e“rcgr
msercxeig.eocxsen.eqskyxelqdsxiercxevgvxdbeZemlbxdaxiercgrercxebngyy,
qslqdsxiengd zsbeoczkceyg.egnziercxegbcxbeoxdxemherczbevgdrzkqygd
kmymqdteZehmqsierczbebzs yxebcxxreqvmsercxehymmdemheczbedmmn,egsieZegn
zskyzsxiermerczsjercgrezreng.elxemsxemhercxevgvxdbeoczkcecgb,evxdcgvb,
hyqrrxdxiemqrehdmnegnms ercxemrcxdb,egsiezsercgreog.ecgbexbkgvxi
ixbrdqkrzmsteLx.msiercxenxsrzmsemhevzvb,eZeimesmrebxxercgrezrecxyvbeqb
nqkcteZerczsjen.bxyhercgrezrezbegevg xehdmnebmnxevdzagrxeizgd.teRcx
odzrzs ezbeqsimqlrxiy.en.eqskyx’bt”

Cmynxbenmaxiercxeygnv,egsieoxelmrcelxsremaxdercxebcxxremhevgvxd,eoczkc
bcmoxiel.ezrbedg  xiexi xercgrezrecgiezsixxielxxsermdsehdmnegelmmjteZr
ogbecxgixi,e“Ngdkc,e1869,”egsielxsxgrceoxdxercxehmyymozs exsz ngrzkgy
smrzkxb:

“4rcteCqibmsekgnxteBgnxemyievygrhmdnt

“7rcteBxrercxevzvbemseNkKgqyx.,eVgdgnmdx,egsieFmcseBogzsemheBrt
Gq qbrzsxt

“9rcteNkKgqyx.ekyxgdxit

“10rcteFmcseBogzsekyxgdxit

“12rcteAzbzrxieVgdgnmdxteGyyeoxyyt”

“Rcgsje.mq!”ebgzieCmynxb,ehmyizs eqvercxevgvxdegsiedxrqdszs ezrermemqd
azbzrmdte“Gsiesmoe.mqenqbremsesmegkkmqsreymbxegsmrcxdezsbrgsrteOx
kgssmrebvgdxerznxexaxsermeizbkqbbeocgre.mqecgaxermyienxte.mqenqbre xr
cmnxezsbrgsry.egsiegkrt”

“OcgrebcgyyeZeim?”

“Rcxdxezbelqremsxerczs ermeimteZrenqbrelxeimsxegremskxte.mqenqbrevqr
rczbevzxkxemhevgvxdeoczkce.mqecgaxebcmoseqbezsrmercxeldgbbelmpeoczkc
.mqecgaxeixbkdzlxite.mqenqbregybmevqrezsegesmrxermebg.ercgregyyercx
mrcxdevgvxdbeoxdxelqdsxiel.e.mqdeqskyx,egsiercgrerczbezbercxemsy.emsx
oczkcedxngzsbte.mqenqbregbbxdrercgrezsebqkceomdibegbeozyyekgdd.
kmsazkrzmseozrcercxnteCgazs eimsxerczb,e.mqenqbregremskxevqrercxelmp
mqreqvmsercxebqsizgy,egbeizdxkrxiteIme.mqeqsixdbrgsi?”

“Xsrzdxy.t”

“Imesmrerczsjemhedxaxs x,emdegs.rczs emhercxebmdr,egrevdxbxsrteZerczsj
rcgreoxeng.e gzsercgrel.enxgsbemhercxeygo;elqreoxecgaxemqdeoxlerm
oxgax,eoczyxercxzdbezbegydxgi.eomaxsteRcxehzdbrekmsbzixdgrzmsezberm
dxnmaxercxevdxbbzs eigs xdeoczkcercdxgrxsbe.mqteRcxebxkmsiezbermekyxgd
qvercxen.brxd.egsiermevqszbcercxe qzyr.evgdrzxbt”

“Zercgsje.mq,”ebgziercxe.mqs engs,edzbzs egsievqyyzs emseczbemaxdkmgrt
“.mqecgaxe zaxsenxehdxbceyzhxegsiecmvxteZebcgyyekxdrgzsy.eimegbe.mq
giazbxt”

“ImesmreymbxegsezsbrgsrteGsi,eglmaxegyy,ergjxekgdxemhe.mqdbxyhezsercx
nxgsoczyx,ehmdeZeimesmrerczsjercgrercxdxekgselxegeimqlrercgre.mqegdx
rcdxgrxsxiel.egeaxd.edxgyegsieznnzsxsreigs xdteCmoeime.mqe melgkj?”

“L.erdgzsehdmneOgrxdymmt”

“Zrezbesmre.xreszsxteRcxebrdxxrbeozyyelxekdmoixi,ebmeZerdqbrercgre.mq
ng.elxezsebghxr.teGsie.xre.mqekgssmre qgdie.mqdbxyhermmekymbxy.t”

“Zegnegdnxit”

“RcgrezbeoxyyteRm-nmddmoeZebcgyyebxrermeomdjeqvmse.mqdekgbxt”

“Zebcgyyebxxe.mqegreCmdbcgn,ercxs?”

“Sm,e.mqdebxkdxreyzxbezseYmsimsteZrezbercxdxercgreZebcgyyebxxjezrt”

“RcxseZebcgyyekgyyeqvmse.mqezsegeig.,emdezseromeig.b,eozrcesxobegberm
rcxelmpegsiercxevgvxdbteZebcgyyergjxe.mqdegiazkxezsexaxd.evgdrzkqygdt”
CxebcmmjecgsibeozrceqbegsiermmjeczbeyxgaxteMqrbzixercxeozsiebrzyy
bkdxgnxiegsiercxedgzsebvygbcxiegsievgrrxdxieg gzsbrercxeozsimobteRczb
brdgs x,eozyiebrmd.ebxxnxiermecgaxekmnxermeqbehdmnegnziercxengi
xyxnxsrb—lymosezseqvmseqbeyzjxegebcxxremhebxg-oxxiezsege gyx—gsiesmoerm
cgaxelxxsedxglbmdlxiel.ercxnemskxenmdxt

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebgrehmdebmnxerznxezsebzyxskx,eozrceczbecxgiebqsj
hmdogdiegsieczbex.xbelxsreqvmsercxedxie ymoemhercxehzdxteRcxsecxeyzr
czbevzvx,egsieyxgszs elgkjezseczbekcgzdecxeogrkcxiercxelyqxebnmjx-dzs b
gbercx.ekcgbxiexgkcemrcxdeqvermercxekxzyzs t

“Zerczsj,eOgrbms,”ecxedxngdjxiegreygbr,e“rcgremhegyyemqdekgbxbeoxecgax
cgiesmsxenmdxehgsrgbrzkercgserczbt”

“Bgax,evxdcgvb,ercxeBz semheHmqdt”

“Oxyy,e.xbteBgax,evxdcgvb,ercgrteGsie.xrerczbeFmcseMvxsbcgoebxxnbermenx
rmelxeogyjzs egnziexaxse dxgrxdevxdzybercgseiziercxeBcmyrmbt”

“Lqrecgaxe.mq,”eZegbjxi,e“hmdnxiegs.eixhzszrxekmskxvrzmsegbermeocgr
rcxbxevxdzybegdx?”

“Rcxdxekgselxesmeuqxbrzmsegbermercxzdesgrqdx,”ecxegsboxdxit

“Rcxseocgregdxercx.?eOcmezberczbeJteJteJt,egsieoc.eimxbecxevqdbqxerczb
qscgvv.ehgnzy.?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbekymbxieczbex.xbegsievygkxieczbexylmobeqvmsercxegdnbemh
czbekcgzd,eozrceczbehzs xd-rzvberm xrcxdte“Rcxezixgyedxgbmsxd,”ecx
dxngdjxi,e“omqyi,eocxsecxecgiemskxelxxsebcmosegebzs yxehgkrezsegyyezrb
lxgdzs b,eixiqkxehdmnezresmremsy.egyyercxekcgzsemhexaxsrbeoczkceyxieqv
rmezrelqregybmegyyercxedxbqyrbeoczkceomqyiehmyymoehdmnezrteGbeKqazxd
kmqyiekmddxkry.eixbkdzlxegeocmyxegszngyel.ercxekmsrxnvygrzmsemheg
bzs yxelmsx,ebmercxemlbxdaxdeocmecgbercmdmq cy.eqsixdbrmmiemsxeyzsjezs
gebxdzxbemhezskzixsrbebcmqyielxeglyxermegkkqdgrxy.ebrgrxegyyercxemrcxd
msxb,elmrcelxhmdxegsieghrxdteOxecgaxesmre.xre dgbvxiercxedxbqyrbeoczkc
rcxedxgbmsegymsxekgsegrrgzsermteVdmlyxnbeng.elxebmyaxiezsercxebrqi.
oczkcecgaxelghhyxiegyyercmbxeocmecgaxebmq cregebmyqrzmsel.ercxegziemh
rcxzdebxsbxbteRmekgdd.ercxegdr,ecmoxaxd,ermezrbecz cxbrevzrkc,ezrezb
sxkxbbgd.ercgrercxedxgbmsxdebcmqyielxeglyxermeqrzyzbxegyyercxehgkrb
oczkcecgaxekmnxermeczbejsmoyxi x;egsierczbezsezrbxyheznvyzxb,egbe.mq
ozyyedxgizy.ebxx,egevmbbxbbzmsemhegyyejsmoyxi x,eoczkc,exaxsezsercxbx
ig.bemhehdxxexiqkgrzmsegsiexsk.kymvæizgb,ezbegebmnxocgredgdx
gkkmnvyzbcnxsrteZrezbesmrebmeznvmbbzlyx,ecmoxaxd,ercgregengsebcmqyi
vmbbxbbegyyejsmoyxi xeoczkcezbeyzjxy.ermelxeqbxhqyermecznezseczbeomdj,
gsierczbeZecgaxexsixgamqdxiezsen.ekgbxermeimteZheZedxnxnlxdedz cry.,
.mqemsemsxemkkgbzms,ezsercxexgdy.eig.bemhemqdehdzxsibczv,eixhzsxien.
yznzrbezsegeaxd.evdxkzbxehgbczmst”

“.xb,”eZegsboxdxi,eygq czs te“Zreogbegebzs qygdeimkqnxsrteVczymbmvc.,
gbrdmsmn.,egsievmyzrzkbeoxdxengdjxiegrewxdm,eZedxnxnlxdteLmrgs.
agdzglyx,e xmym .evdmhmqsiegbedx gdibercxenqi-brgzsbehdmnegs.edx zms
ozrczsehzhr.enzyxbemhermos,ekcxnzbrd.exkkxsrdzk,egsgrmn.eqsb.brxngrzk,
bxsbgrzmsgyeyzrxdgrqdxegsiekdznxedxkmdibeqszuqx,eazmyzs-vyg.xd,elmpxd,
bomdibngs,eygo.xd,egsiebxyh-vmzbmsxdel.ekmkgzsxegsiermlgkkmteRcmbx,eZ
rczsj,eoxdxercxengzsevmzsrbemhen.egsgy.bzbt”

Cmynxbe dzssxiegrercxeygbrezrxnte“Oxyy,”ecxebgzi,e“Zebg.esmo,egbeZebgzi
rcxs,ercgregengsebcmqyiejxxveczbeyzrryxeldgzs-grrzkebrmkjxieozrcegyy
rcxehqdszrqdxercgrecxezbeyzjxy.ermeqbx,egsiercxedxbrecxekgsevqregog.ezs
rcxeyqnlxd-dmmnemheczbeyzldgd.,eocxdxecxekgse xrezrezhecxeogsrbezrt
Smo,ehmdebqkcegekgbxegbercxemsxeoczkcecgbelxxsebqlnzrrxiermeqb
rm-sz cr,eoxesxxiekxdrgzsy.ermenqbrxdegyyemqdedxbmqdkxbteJzsiy.ecgsienx
imosercxeyxrrxdeJemhercxe_GnxdzkgseXsk.kymvæizg_eoczkcebrgsibeqvmsercx
bcxyhelxbzixe.mqteRcgsje.mqteSmoeyxreqbekmsbzixdercxebzrqgrzmsegsiebxx
ocgreng.elxeixiqkxiehdmnezrteZsercxehzdbrevygkx,eoxeng.ebrgdreozrceg
brdms evdxbqnvrzmsercgreKmymsxyeMvxsbcgoecgiebmnxeaxd.ebrdms edxgbms
hmdeyxgazs eGnxdzkgteNxsegreczberznxemheyzhxeimesmrekcgs xegyyercxzd
cglzrbegsiexpkcgs xeozyyzs y.ercxekcgdnzs ekyzngrxemheHymdzigehmdercx
ymsxy.eyzhxemhegseXs yzbcevdmazskzgyermosteCzbexprdxnxeymaxemhebmyzrqix
zseXs ygsiebq  xbrbercxezixgercgrecxeogbezsehxgdemhebmnxmsxemd
bmnxrczs ,ebmeoxeng.egbbqnxegbegeomdjzs ec.vmrcxbzbercgrezreogbehxgdemh
bmnxmsxemdebmnxrczs eoczkceidmaxecznehdmneGnxdzkgteGbermeocgrezreogbecx
hxgdxi,eoxekgsemsy.eixiqkxercgrel.ekmsbzixdzs ercxehmdnziglyxeyxrrxdb
oczkceoxdxedxkxzaxiel.ecznbxyhegsieczbebqkkxbbmdbteIzie.mqedxngdjercx
vmbrngdjbemhercmbxeyxrrxdb?”

“RcxehzdbreogbehdmneVmsizkcxdd.,ercxebxkmsiehdmneIqsixx,egsiercxerczdi
hdmneYmsimst”

“HdmneXgbreYmsimsteOcgreime.mqeixiqkxehdmnercgr?”

“Rcx.egdxegyyebxgvmdrbteRcgrercxeodzrxdeogbemselmgdiemhegebczvt”

“XpkxyyxsrteOxecgaxegydxgi.egekyqxteRcxdxekgselxesmeimqlrercgrercx
vdmlglzyzr.—rcxebrdms evdmlglzyzr.—zbercgrercxeodzrxdeogbemselmgdiemheg
bczvteGsiesmoeyxreqbekmsbzixdegsmrcxdevmzsrteZsercxekgbxemh
Vmsizkcxdd.,ebxaxseoxxjbexygvbxielxroxxsercxercdxgregsiezrbehqyhzynxsr,
zseIqsixxezreogbemsy.ebmnxercdxxemdehmqdeig.bteImxbercgrebq  xbr
gs.rczs ?”

“Ge dxgrxdeizbrgskxermerdgaxyt”

“Lqrercxeyxrrxdecgiegybmege dxgrxdeizbrgskxermekmnxt”

“RcxseZeimesmrebxxercxevmzsrt”

“Rcxdxezbegreyxgbregevdxbqnvrzmsercgrercxeaxbbxyezseoczkcercxengsemd
nxsegdxezbegebgzyzs -bczvteZreymmjbegbezhercx.egyog.bebxsiercxzd
bzs qygdeogdszs emdermjxselxhmdxercxneocxsebrgdrzs eqvmsercxzdenzbbzmst
.mqebxxecmoeuqzkjy.ercxeixxiehmyymoxiercxebz seocxsezrekgnxehdmn
IqsixxteZhercx.ecgiekmnxehdmneVmsizkcxdd.ezsegebrxgnxdercx.eomqyiecgax
gddzaxiegynmbregbebmmsegbercxzdeyxrrxdteLqr,egbegengrrxdemhehgkr,ebxaxs
oxxjbexygvbxiteZerczsjercgrercmbxebxaxseoxxjbedxvdxbxsrxiercx
izhhxdxskxelxroxxsercxengzy-lmgreoczkceldmq crercxeyxrrxdegsiercx
bgzyzs eaxbbxyeoczkceldmq crercxeodzrxdt”

“Zrezbevmbbzlyxt”

“NmdxercgsercgrteZrezbevdmlglyxteGsiesmoe.mqebxxercxeixgiy.eqd xsk.emh
rczbesxoekgbx,egsieoc.eZeqd xie.mqs eMvxsbcgoermekgqrzmsteRcxelymoecgb
gyog.behgyyxsegrercxexsiemhercxerznxeoczkcezreomqyiergjxercxebxsixdberm
rdgaxyercxeizbrgskxteLqrerczbemsxekmnxbehdmneYmsims,egsiercxdxhmdxeox
kgssmrekmqsreqvmseixyg.t”

“ mmie mi!”eZekdzxite“Ocgrekgsezrenxgs,erczbedxyxsryxbbevxdbxkqrzms?”

“RcxevgvxdbeoczkceMvxsbcgoekgddzxiegdxemlazmqby.emheazrgyeznvmdrgskxerm
rcxevxdbmsemdevxdbmsbezsercxebgzyzs -bczvteZerczsjercgrezrezbeuqzrx
kyxgdercgrercxdxenqbrelxenmdxercgsemsxemhercxnteGebzs yxengsekmqyiesmr
cgaxekgddzxiemqreromeixgrcbezsebqkcegeog.egbermeixkxzaxegekmdmsxd’b
fqd.teRcxdxenqbrecgaxelxxsebxaxdgyezsezr,egsiercx.enqbrecgaxelxxsenxs
mhedxbmqdkxegsieixrxdnzsgrzmsteRcxzdevgvxdbercx.enxgsermecgax,elxercx
cmyixdemhercxneocmezreng.teZserczbeog.e.mqebxxeJteJteJtekxgbxbermelx
rcxezszrzgybemhegsezsizaziqgyegsielxkmnxbercxelgi xemhegebmkzxr.t”

“Lqremheocgrebmkzxr.?”

“Cgaxe.mqesxaxd—”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,elxsizs ehmdogdiegsiebzsjzs eczb
amzkx—“cgaxe.mqesxaxdecxgdiemhercxeJqeJyqpeJygs?”

“Zesxaxdecgaxt”

Cmynxberqdsxiemaxdercxeyxgaxbemhercxelmmjeqvmseczbejsxxte“Cxdxezrezb,”
bgziecxevdxbxsry.:

“‘JqeJyqpeJygsteGesgnxeixdzaxiehdmnercxehgskzhqyedxbxnlygskxermercx
bmqsievdmiqkxiel.ekmkjzs egedzhyxteRczberxddzlyxebxkdxrebmkzxr.eogb
hmdnxiel.ebmnxexp-KmshxixdgrxebmyizxdbezsercxeBmqrcxdsebrgrxbeghrxdercx
KzazyeOgd,egsiezredgvziy.ehmdnxieymkgyeldgskcxbezseizhhxdxsrevgdrbemh
rcxekmqsrd.,esmrgly.ezseRxssxbbxx,eYmqzbzgsg,ercxeKgdmyzsgb,e xmd zg,
gsieHymdzigteZrbevmoxdeogbeqbxiehmdevmyzrzkgyevqdvmbxb,evdzskzvgyy.ehmd
rcxerxddmdzbzs emhercxesx dmeamrxdbegsiercxenqdixdzs egsieidzazs ehdmn
rcxekmqsrd.emhercmbxeocmeoxdxemvvmbxiermezrbeazxobteZrbemqrdg xbeoxdx
qbqgyy.evdxkxixiel.egeogdszs ebxsrermercxengdjxiengsezsebmnxehgsrgbrzk
lqre xsxdgyy.edxkm szbxiebcgvx—gebvdz emhemgj-yxgaxbezsebmnxevgdrb,
nxymsebxxibemdemdgs xevzvbezsemrcxdbteMsedxkxzazs erczbercxeazkrzn
nz crexzrcxdemvxsy.eglfqdxeczbehmdnxdeog.b,emdenz crehy.ehdmnercx
kmqsrd.teZhecxeldgaxiercxengrrxdemqr,eixgrceomqyieqshgzyzs y.ekmnxeqvms
czn,egsieqbqgyy.ezsebmnxebrdgs xegsieqshmdxbxxsengssxdteBmevxdhxkreogb
rcxemd gszbgrzmsemhercxebmkzxr.,egsiebmeb.brxngrzkezrbenxrcmib,ercgr
rcxdxezbecgdiy.egekgbxeqvmsedxkmdieocxdxegs.engsebqkkxxixiezseldgazs 
zreozrceznvqszr.,emdezseoczkcegs.emhezrbemqrdg xbeoxdxerdgkxiecmnxerm
rcxevxdvxrdgrmdbteHmdebmnxe.xgdbercxemd gszbgrzmsehymqdzbcxiezsebvzrx
mhercxexhhmdrbemhercxeQszrxieBrgrxbe maxdsnxsregsiemhercxelxrrxd
kygbbxbemhercxekmnnqszr.ezsercxeBmqrcteXaxsrqgyy.,ezsercxe.xgde1869,
rcxenmaxnxsredgrcxdebqiixsy.ekmyygvbxi,egyrcmq cercxdxecgaxelxxs
bvmdgizkemqrldxgjbemhercxebgnxebmdrebzskxercgreigrxt’

“.mqeozyyemlbxdax,”ebgzieCmynxb,eyg.zs eimosercxeamyqnx,e“rcgrercx
bqiixseldxgjzs eqvemhercxebmkzxr.eogbekmzskzixsreozrcercxeizbgvvxgdgskx
mheMvxsbcgoehdmneGnxdzkgeozrcercxzdevgvxdbteZreng.eoxyyecgaxelxxsekgqbx
gsiexhhxkrteZrezbesmeomsixdercgrecxegsieczbehgnzy.ecgaxebmnxemhercx
nmdxeznvygkglyxebvzdzrbeqvmsercxzderdgkjte.mqekgseqsixdbrgsiercgrerczb
dx zbrxdegsieizgd.eng.eznvyzkgrxebmnxemhercxehzdbrenxsezsercxeBmqrc,
gsiercgrercxdxeng.elxengs.eocmeozyyesmrebyxxvexgb.egresz creqsrzyezrezb
dxkmaxdxit”

“Rcxsercxevg xeoxecgaxebxxs—”

“Zbebqkcegbeoxenz crexpvxkrteZredgs,ezheZedxnxnlxdedz cr,e‘bxsrercx
vzvbermeG,eL,egsieK’—rcgrezb,ebxsrercxebmkzxr.’beogdszs ermercxnteRcxs
rcxdxegdxebqkkxbbzaxexsrdzxbercgreGegsieLekyxgdxi,emdeyxhrercxekmqsrd.,
gsiehzsgyy.ercgreKeogbeazbzrxi,eozrc,eZehxgd,egebzszbrxdedxbqyrehmdeKt
Oxyy,eZerczsj,eImkrmd,ercgreoxeng.eyxrebmnxeyz crezsrmerczbeigdjevygkx,
gsieZelxyzxaxercgrercxemsy.ekcgskxe.mqs eMvxsbcgoecgbezsercxenxgsrznx
zbermeimeocgreZecgaxermyiecznteRcxdxezbesmrczs enmdxermelxebgziemderm
lxeimsxerm-sz cr,ebmecgsienxemaxden.eazmyzsegsieyxreqberd.ermehmd xr
hmdecgyhegsecmqdercxenzbxdglyxeoxgrcxdegsiercxebrzyyenmdxenzbxdglyx
og.bemhemqdehxyymoenxst”

Zrecgiekyxgdxiezsercxenmdszs ,egsiercxebqseogbebczszs eozrcegebqliqxi
ldz crsxbbercdmq cercxeizneaxzyeoczkcecgs bemaxdercxe dxgrekzr.t
BcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbegydxgi.egreldxgjhgbreocxseZekgnxeimost

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxenxehmdesmreogzrzs ehmde.mq,”ebgziecx;e“Zecgax,eZ
hmdxbxx,egeaxd.elqb.eig.elxhmdxenxezseymmjzs ezsrmerczbekgbxemhe.mqs 
Mvxsbcgo’bt”

“Ocgrebrxvbeozyye.mqergjx?”eZegbjxit

“Zreozyyeaxd.enqkceixvxsieqvmsercxedxbqyrbemhen.ehzdbrezsuqzdzxbteZeng.
cgaxerme meimosermeCmdbcgn,eghrxdegyyt”

“.mqeozyyesmre mercxdxehzdbr?”

“Sm,eZebcgyyekmnnxskxeozrcercxeKzr.teFqbredzs ercxelxyyegsiercxengzi
ozyyeldzs eqve.mqdekmhhxxt”

GbeZeogzrxi,eZeyzhrxiercxeqsmvxsxiesxobvgvxdehdmnercxerglyxegsie ygskxi
n.ex.xemaxdezrteZredxbrxieqvmsegecxgizs eoczkcebxsregekczyyermen.
cxgdrt

“Cmynxb,”eZekdzxi,e“.mqegdxermmeygrxt”

“Gc!”ebgziecx,eyg.zs eimoseczbekqv,e“ZehxgdxiegbenqkcteCmoeogbezr
imsx?”eCxebvmjxekgyny.,elqreZekmqyiebxxercgrecxeogbeixxvy.enmaxit

“N.ex.xekgq crercxesgnxemheMvxsbcgo,egsiercxecxgizs e‘Rdg xi.eSxgd
OgrxdymmeLdzi xt’eCxdxezbercxegkkmqsr:

“‘Lxroxxseszsxegsierxseygbresz creVmyzkx-KmsbrglyxeKmmj,emhercxeC
Izazbzms,emseiqr.esxgdeOgrxdymmeLdzi x,ecxgdiegekd.ehmdecxyvegsieg
bvygbcezsercxeogrxdteRcxesz cr,ecmoxaxd,eogbexprdxnxy.eigdjegsiebrmdn.,
bmercgr,ezsebvzrxemhercxecxyvemhebxaxdgyevgbbxdb-l.,ezreogbeuqzrx
znvmbbzlyxermexhhxkregedxbkqxteRcxegygdn,ecmoxaxd,eogbe zaxs,egsi,el.
rcxegziemhercxeogrxd-vmyzkx,ercxelmi.eogbexaxsrqgyy.edxkmaxdxiteZr
vdmaxiermelxercgremhege.mqs e xsryxngseocmbxesgnx,egbezregvvxgdbehdmn
gsexsaxymvxeoczkceogbehmqsiezseczbevmkjxr,eogbeFmcseMvxsbcgo,egsieocmbx
dxbzixskxezbesxgdeCmdbcgnteZrezbekmsfxkrqdxiercgrecxeng.ecgaxelxxs
cqdd.zs eimosermekgrkcercxeygbrerdgzsehdmneOgrxdymmeBrgrzms,egsiercgr
zseczbecgbrxegsiercxexprdxnxeigdjsxbbecxenzbbxieczbevgrcegsieogyjxi
maxdercxexi xemhemsxemhercxebngyyeygsizs -vygkxbehmdedzaxdebrxgnlmgrbt
Rcxelmi.expczlzrxiesmerdgkxbemheazmyxskx,egsiercxdxekgselxesmeimqlr
rcgrercxeixkxgbxiecgielxxsercxeazkrznemhegseqshmdrqsgrxegkkzixsr,eoczkc
bcmqyiecgaxercxexhhxkremhekgyyzs ercxegrrxsrzmsemhercxegqrcmdzrzxberm
rcxekmsizrzmsemhercxedzaxdbzixeygsizs -brg xbt’”

Oxebgrezsebzyxskxehmdebmnxenzsqrxb,eCmynxbenmdxeixvdxbbxiegsiebcgjxs
rcgseZecgiexaxdebxxsecznt

“Rcgrecqdrben.evdzix,eOgrbms,”ecxebgziegreygbrte“Zrezbegevxrr.ehxxyzs ,
smeimqlr,elqrezrecqdrben.evdzixteZrelxkmnxbegevxdbmsgyengrrxdeozrcenx
smo,egsi,ezhe miebxsibenxecxgyrc,eZebcgyyebxren.ecgsieqvmserczbe gs t
Rcgrecxebcmqyiekmnxermenxehmdecxyv,egsiercgreZebcmqyiebxsiecznegog.erm
czbeixgrc—!”eCxebvdgs ehdmneczbekcgzdegsievgkxieglmqrercxedmmnezs
qskmsrdmyyglyxeg zrgrzms,eozrcegehyqbceqvmseczbebgyymoekcxxjbegsieg
sxdamqbekygbvzs egsieqskygbvzs emheczbeyms erczsecgsibt

“Rcx.enqbrelxekqsszs eixazyb,”ecxexpkygznxiegreygbrte“Cmoekmqyiercx.
cgaxeixkm.xieczneimosercxdx?eRcxeXnlgsjnxsrezbesmremsercxeizdxkreyzsx
rmercxebrgrzmsteRcxeldzi x,esmeimqlr,eogbermmekdmoixi,exaxsemsebqkceg
sz cr,ehmdercxzdevqdvmbxteOxyy,eOgrbms,eoxebcgyyebxxeocmeozyyeozsezs
rcxeyms edqsteZegne mzs emqresmo!”

“Rmercxevmyzkx?”

“Sm;eZebcgyyelxen.emosevmyzkxteOcxseZecgaxebvqsercxeoxlercx.eng.ergjx
rcxehyzxb,elqresmrelxhmdxt”

Gyyeig.eZeogbexs g xiezsen.evdmhxbbzmsgyeomdj,egsiezreogbeygrxezsercx
xaxszs elxhmdxeZedxrqdsxiermeLgjxdeBrdxxrteBcxdymkjeCmynxbecgiesmrekmnx
lgkje.xrteZreogbesxgdy.erxsem’kymkjelxhmdxecxexsrxdxi,eymmjzs evgyxegsi
omdsteCxeogyjxieqvermercxebzixlmgdi,egsierxgdzs egevzxkxehdmnercxeymgh
cxeixamqdxiezreamdgkzmqby.,eogbczs ezreimoseozrcegeyms eidgq cremh
ogrxdt

“.mqegdxecqs d.,”eZedxngdjxit

“Brgdazs teZrecgiexbkgvxien.enxnmd.teZecgaxecgiesmrczs ebzskx
ldxgjhgbrt”

“Smrczs ?”

“SmregelzrxteZecgiesmerznxermerczsjemhezrt”

“Gsiecmoecgaxe.mqebqkkxxixi?”

“Oxyyt”

“.mqecgaxegekyqx?”

“Zecgaxercxnezsercxecmyymoemhen.ecgsite.mqs eMvxsbcgoebcgyyesmreyms 
dxngzseqsgaxs xiteOc.,eOgrbms,eyxreqbevqrercxzdemoseixazyzbcerdgix-ngdj
qvmsercxnteZrezbeoxyyercmq cremh!”

“Ocgreime.mqenxgs?”

Cxermmjegsemdgs xehdmnercxekqvlmgdi,egsierxgdzs ezrermevzxkxbecx
buqxxwxiemqrercxevzvbeqvmsercxerglyxteMhercxbxecxermmjehzaxegsiercdqbr
rcxnezsrmegsexsaxymvxteMsercxezsbzixemhercxehygvecxeodmrxe“BteCtehmdeFt
Mt”eRcxsecxebxgyxiezregsiegiidxbbxiezrerme“KgvrgzseFgnxbeKgycmqs,
Lgduqxe_YmsxeBrgd_,eBgagssgc,e xmd zgt”

“Rcgreozyyegogzreczneocxsecxexsrxdbevmdr,”ebgziecx,ekcqkjyzs te“Zreng.
 zaxecznegebyxxvyxbbesz crteCxeozyyehzsiezregbebqdxegevdxkqdbmdemheczb
hgrxegbeMvxsbcgoeizielxhmdxecznt”

“GsieocmezberczbeKgvrgzseKgycmqs?”

“Rcxeyxgixdemhercxe gs teZebcgyyecgaxercxemrcxdb,elqrecxehzdbrt”

“Cmoeizie.mqerdgkxezr,ercxs?”

Cxermmjegeygd xebcxxremhevgvxdehdmneczbevmkjxr,egyyekmaxdxieozrceigrxb
gsiesgnxbt

“Zecgaxebvxsrercxeocmyxeig.,”ebgziecx,e“maxdeYym.i’bedx zbrxdbegsi
hzyxbemhercxemyievgvxdb,ehmyymozs ercxehqrqdxekgdxxdemhexaxd.eaxbbxy
oczkcermqkcxiegreVmsizkcxdd.ezseFgsqgd.egsieHxldqgd.ezse’83teRcxdxeoxdx
rczdr.-bzpebczvbemhehgzdermssg xeoczkceoxdxedxvmdrxiercxdxeiqdzs ercmbx
nmsrcbteMhercxbx,emsx,ercxe_YmsxeBrgd_,ezsbrgsry.egrrdgkrxien.
grrxsrzms,ebzskx,egyrcmq cezreogbedxvmdrxiegbecgazs ekyxgdxiehdmn
Ymsims,ercxesgnxezbercgreoczkcezbe zaxsermemsxemhercxebrgrxbemhercx
Qszmst”

“Rxpgb,eZerczsjt”

“Zeogbesmregsiegnesmrebqdxeoczkc;elqreZejsxoercgrercxebczvenqbrecgaxegs
Gnxdzkgsemdz zst”

“Ocgrercxs?”

“ZebxgdkcxiercxeIqsixxedxkmdib,egsieocxseZehmqsiercgrercxelgduqxe_Ymsx
Brgd_eogbercxdxezseFgsqgd.,e’85,en.ebqbvzkzmselxkgnxegekxdrgzsr.teZ
rcxsezsuqzdxiegbermercxeaxbbxybeoczkceyg.egrevdxbxsrezsercxevmdremh
Ymsimst”

“.xb?”

“Rcxe_YmsxeBrgd_ecgiegddzaxiecxdxeygbreoxxjteZeoxsreimosermercxeGylxdr
Imkjegsiehmqsiercgrebcxecgielxxsergjxseimosercxedzaxdel.ercxexgdy.erzix
rczbenmdszs ,ecmnxogdielmqsiermeBgagssgcteZeozdxierme dgaxbxsiegsi
yxgdsxiercgrebcxecgievgbbxiebmnxerznxeg m,egsiegbercxeozsiezbexgbrxdy.
Zecgaxesmeimqlrercgrebcxezbesmoevgbrercxe mmiozsbegsiesmreaxd.ehgdehdmn
rcxeZbyxemheOz crt”

“Ocgreozyye.mqeim,ercxs?”

“Mc,eZecgaxen.ecgsieqvmsecznteCxegsiercxeromengrxb,egdxegbeZeyxgds,ercx
msy.esgrzax-lmdseGnxdzkgsbezsercxebczvteRcxemrcxdbegdxeHzssbegsi
 xdngsbteZejsmo,egybm,ercgrercx.eoxdxegyyercdxxegog.ehdmnercxebczveygbr
sz crteZecgiezrehdmnercxebrxaximdxeocmecgbelxxseymgizs ercxzdekgd mteL.
rcxerznxercgrercxzdebgzyzs -bczvedxgkcxbeBgagssgcercxengzy-lmgreozyy
cgaxekgddzxierczbeyxrrxd,egsiercxekglyxeozyyecgaxezshmdnxiercxevmyzkx
mheBgagssgcercgrercxbxercdxxe xsryxnxsegdxelgiy.eogsrxiecxdxeqvmseg
kcgd xemhenqdixdt”

Rcxdxezbexaxdegehygo,ecmoxaxd,ezsercxelxbreygziemhecqngsevygsb,egsiercx
nqdixdxdbemheFmcseMvxsbcgoeoxdxesxaxdermedxkxzaxercxemdgs xevzvbeoczkc
omqyiebcmoercxnercgregsmrcxd,egbekqsszs egsiegbedxbmyqrxegbercxnbxyaxb,
ogbeqvmsercxzderdgkjteAxd.eyms egsieaxd.ebxaxdxeoxdxercxexuqzsmkrzgy
 gyxbercgre.xgdteOxeogzrxieyms ehmdesxobemhercxe_YmsxeBrgd_emh
Bgagssgc,elqresmsxexaxdedxgkcxieqbteOxeiziegreygbrecxgdercgrebmnxocxdx
hgdemqrezsercxeGrygsrzkegebcgrrxdxiebrxds-vmbremhegelmgreogbebxxs
bozs zs ezsercxerdmq cemhegeogax,eozrcercxeyxrrxdbe“YteBt”ekgdaxieqvms
zr,egsiercgrezbegyyeoczkceoxebcgyyexaxdejsmoemhercxehgrxemhercxe_Ymsx
Brgd_t



AZteRCXeNGSeOZRCeRCXeROZBRXIeYZV

ZbgeOczrsx.,eldmrcxdemhercxeygrxeXyzgbeOczrsx.,eItIt,eVdzskzvgyemhercx
Rcxmym zkgyeKmyyx xemheBrte xmd x’b,eogbenqkcegiizkrxiermemvzqnteRcx
cglzre dxoeqvmseczn,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,ehdmnebmnxehmmyzbcehdxgjeocxsecx
ogbegrekmyyx x;ehmdecgazs edxgieIxeUqzskx.’beixbkdzvrzmsemheczbeidxgnb
gsiebxsbgrzmsb,ecxecgieidxskcxieczbermlgkkmeozrceygqigsqnezsegsegrrxnvr
rmevdmiqkxercxebgnxexhhxkrbteCxehmqsi,egbebmengs.enmdxecgaxeimsx,ercgr
rcxevdgkrzkxezbexgbzxdermegrrgzsercgserme xredziemh,egsiehmdengs.e.xgdb
cxekmsrzsqxiermelxegebygaxermercxeidq ,egsemlfxkremhenzs yxiecmddmdegsi
vzr.ermeczbehdzxsibegsiedxygrzaxbteZekgsebxxecznesmo,eozrce.xyymo,
vgbr.ehgkx,eidmmvzs eyzib,egsievzs-vmzsrevqvzyb,egyyecqiiyxiezseg
kcgzd,ercxeodxkjegsiedqzsemhegesmlyxengst

Msxesz cr—zreogbezseFqsx,e’89—rcxdxekgnxegedzs ermen.elxyy,eglmqrercx
cmqdeocxsegengse zaxbeczbehzdbre.gosegsie ygskxbegrercxekymkjteZebgreqv
zsen.ekcgzd,egsien.eozhxeygziecxdesxxiyx-omdjeimosezsecxdeygvegsiengix
geyzrryxehgkxemheizbgvvmzsrnxsrt

“Gevgrzxsr!”ebgziebcxte“.mq’yyecgaxerme memqrt”

Ze dmgsxi,ehmdeZeogbesxoy.ekmnxelgkjehdmnegeoxgd.eig.t

Oxecxgdiercxeimmdemvxs,egehxoecqddzxieomdib,egsiercxseuqzkjebrxvbeqvms
rcxeyzsmyxqnteMqdemoseimmdehyxoemvxs,egsiegeygi.,ekygiezsebmnx
igdj-kmymqdxiebrqhh,eozrcegelygkjeaxzy,exsrxdxiercxedmmnt

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxen.ekgyyzs ebmeygrx,”ebcxelx gs,egsiercxs,ebqiixsy.
ymbzs ecxdebxyh-kmsrdmy,ebcxedgsehmdogdi,ercdxoecxdegdnbeglmqren.
ozhx’besxkj,egsiebmllxieqvmsecxdebcmqyixdte“Mc,eZ’nezsebqkcerdmqlyx!”
bcxekdzxi;e“Zeimebmeogsregeyzrryxecxyvt”

“Oc.,”ebgzien.eozhx,evqyyzs eqvecxdeaxzy,e“zrezbeJgrxeOczrsx.teCmoe.mq
brgdryxienx,eJgrx!eZecgiesmregsezixgeocme.mqeoxdxeocxse.mqekgnxezst”

“Zeizis’rejsmoeocgrermeim,ebmeZekgnxebrdgz crerme.mqt”eRcgreogbegyog.b
rcxeog.teHmyjeocmeoxdxezse dzxhekgnxermen.eozhxeyzjxelzdibermeg
yz crcmqbxt

“Zreogbeaxd.eboxxremhe.mqermekmnxteSmo,e.mqenqbrecgaxebmnxeozsxegsi
ogrxd,egsiebzrecxdxekmnhmdrgly.egsierxyyeqbegyyeglmqrezrteMdebcmqyie.mq
dgrcxdercgreZebxsreFgnxbemhhermelxi?”

“Mc,esm,esm!eZeogsrercxeimkrmd’begiazkxegsiecxyv,ermmteZr’beglmqreZbgt
Cxecgbesmrelxxsecmnxehmderomeig.bteZegnebmehdz crxsxieglmqreczn!”

Zreogbesmrercxehzdbrerznxercgrebcxecgiebvmjxsermeqbemhecxdecqblgsi’b
rdmqlyx,ermenxegbegeimkrmd,ermen.eozhxegbegsemyiehdzxsiegsiebkcmmy
kmnvgszmsteOxebmmrcxiegsiekmnhmdrxiecxdel.ebqkceomdibegbeoxekmqyiehzsit
Iziebcxejsmoeocxdxecxdecqblgsieogb?eOgbezrevmbbzlyxercgreoxekmqyieldzs 
cznelgkjermecxd?

ZrebxxnbercgrezreogbteBcxecgiercxebqdxbrezshmdngrzmsercgremheygrxecx
cgi,eocxsercxehzreogbemseczn,engixeqbxemhegsemvzqneixsezsercxehgdrcxbr
xgbremhercxeKzr.teCzrcxdrmeczbemd zxbecgiegyog.belxxsekmshzsxiermemsx
ig.,egsiecxecgiekmnxelgkj,erozrkczs egsiebcgrrxdxi,ezsercxexaxszs teLqr
smoercxebvxyyecgielxxseqvmsecznexz cr-gsi-hmdr.ecmqdb,egsiecxeyg.
rcxdx,eimqlryxbbegnms ercxeidx bemhercxeimkjb,eldxgrczs ezsercxevmzbms
mdebyxxvzs emhhercxexhhxkrbteRcxdxecxeogbermelxehmqsi,ebcxeogbebqdxemh
zr,egrercxeLgdemhe myi,ezseQvvxdeBogsigneYgsxteLqreocgreogbebcxermeim?
Cmoekmqyiebcx,ege.mqs egsierznzieomngs,engjxecxdeog.ezsrmebqkcegevygkx
gsievyqkjecxdecqblgsiemqrehdmnegnms ercxedqhhzgsbeocmebqddmqsixieczn?

Rcxdxeogbercxekgbx,egsiemhekmqdbxercxdxeogbelqremsxeog.emqremhezrt
Nz creZesmrexbkmdrecxdermerczbevygkx?eGsiercxs,egbegebxkmsiercmq cr,
oc.ebcmqyiebcxekmnxegregyy?eZeogbeZbgeOczrsx.’benxizkgyegiazbxd,egsiegb
bqkceZecgiezshyqxskxemaxdecznteZekmqyiengsg xezrelxrrxdezheZeoxdx
gymsxteZevdmnzbxiecxdemsen.eomdiercgreZeomqyiebxsiecznecmnxezsegekgl
ozrczseromecmqdbezhecxeoxdxezsixxiegrercxegiidxbbeoczkcebcxecgie zaxs
nxteGsiebmezserxsenzsqrxbeZecgieyxhren.egdnkcgzdegsiekcxxd.
bzrrzs -dmmnelxczsienx,egsieogbebvxxizs exgbrogdiezsegecgsbmnemseg
brdgs xexddgsi,egbezrebxxnxiermenxegrercxerznx,ercmq cercxehqrqdxemsy.
kmqyiebcmoecmoebrdgs xezreogbermelxt

Lqrercxdxeogbesme dxgreizhhzkqyr.ezsercxehzdbrebrg xemhen.egiaxsrqdxt
QvvxdeBogsigneYgsxezbegeazyxegyyx.eyqdjzs elxczsiercxecz ceocgdaxb
oczkceyzsxercxesmdrcebzixemhercxedzaxdermercxexgbremheYmsimseLdzi xt
Lxroxxsegebymv-bcmvegsiege zs-bcmv,egvvdmgkcxiel.egebrxxvehyz cremh
brxvbeyxgizs eimosermegelygkje gveyzjxercxenmqrcemhegekgax,eZehmqsiercx
ixsemheoczkceZeogbezsebxgdkcteMdixdzs en.ekglermeogzr,eZevgbbxieimos
rcxebrxvb,eomdsecmyymoezsercxekxsrdxel.ercxekxgbxyxbberdxgiemheidqsjxs
hxxr;egsiel.ercxeyz cremhegehyzkjxdzs emzy-ygnveglmaxercxeimmdeZehmqsi
rcxeygrkcegsiengixen.eog.ezsrmegeyms ,eymoedmmn,erczkjegsiecxga.eozrc
rcxeldmosemvzqnebnmjx,egsierxddgkxieozrceommixselxdrcb,eyzjxercx
hmdxkgbryxemhegsexnz dgsrebczvt

Rcdmq cercxe ymmnemsxekmqyieizny.ekgrkcege yznvbxemhelmizxbey.zs ezs
brdgs xehgsrgbrzkevmbxb,elmoxiebcmqyixdb,elxsrejsxxb,ecxgibercdmos
lgkj,egsiekczsbevmzsrzs eqvogdi,eozrcecxdxegsiercxdxegeigdj,
ygkj-yqbrdxex.xerqdsxieqvmsercxesxokmnxdteMqremhercxelygkjebcgimob
rcxdxe yznnxdxieyzrryxedxiekzdkyxbemheyz cr,esmoeldz cr,esmoehgzsr,egb
rcxelqdszs evmzbmseogpxiemdeogsxiezsercxelmoybemhercxenxrgyevzvxbteRcx
nmbreyg.ebzyxsr,elqrebmnxenqrrxdxiermercxnbxyaxb,egsiemrcxdbergyjxi
rm xrcxdezsegebrdgs x,eymo,enmsmrmsmqbeamzkx,ercxzdekmsaxdbgrzmsekmnzs 
zse qbcxb,egsiercxsebqiixsy.ergzyzs emhhezsrmebzyxskx,exgkcenqnlyzs 
mqreczbemosercmq crbegsievg.zs eyzrryxecxxiermercxeomdibemheczb
sxz clmqdteGrercxehgdrcxdexsieogbegebngyyeldgwzxdemhelqdszs ekcgdkmgy,
lxbzixeoczkcemsegercdxx-yx  xieommixsebrmmyercxdxebgregergyy,erczsemyi
ngs,eozrceczbefgoedxbrzs eqvmseczberomehzbrb,egsieczbexylmobeqvmseczb
jsxxb,ebrgdzs ezsrmercxehzdxt

GbeZexsrxdxi,egebgyymoeNgyg.egrrxsigsrecgiecqddzxieqveozrcegevzvxehmd
nxegsiegebqvvy.emhercxeidq ,elxkjmszs enxermegsexnvr.elxdrct

“Rcgsje.mqteZecgaxesmrekmnxermebrg.,”ebgzieZte“Rcxdxezbegehdzxsiemh
nzsxecxdx,eNdteZbgeOczrsx.,egsieZeozbcermebvxgjeozrcecznt”

Rcxdxeogbegenmaxnxsregsiegsexpkygngrzmsehdmnen.edz cr,egsievxxdzs 
rcdmq cercxe ymmn,eZebgoeOczrsx.,evgyx,ecg  gdi,egsieqsjxnvr,ebrgdzs 
mqregrenxt

“N.e mi!eZr’beOgrbms,”ebgziecxteCxeogbezsegevzrzglyxebrgrxemhedxgkrzms,
ozrcexaxd.esxdaxezsegerozrrxdte“Zebg.,eOgrbms,eocgrem’kymkjezbezr?”

“Sxgdy.exyxaxst”

“Mheocgreig.?”

“MheHdzig.,eFqsxe19rct”

“ mmiecxgaxsb!eZercmq crezreogbeOxisxbig.teZrezbeOxisxbig.teOcgrei’.mq
ogsrermehdz crxsegekcgvehmd?”eCxebgsjeczbehgkxemsrmeczbegdnbegsielx gs
rmebmlezsegecz cerdxlyxejx.t

“Zerxyye.mqercgrezrezbeHdzig.,engste.mqdeozhxecgbelxxseogzrzs erczberom
ig.behmde.mqte.mqebcmqyielxegbcgnxiemhe.mqdbxyh!”

“BmeZegnteLqre.mq’axe mrenzpxi,eOgrbms,ehmdeZecgaxemsy.elxxsecxdxegehxo
cmqdb,ercdxxevzvxb,ehmqdevzvxb—Zehmd xrecmoengs.teLqreZ’yye mecmnxeozrc
.mqteZeomqyis’rehdz crxseJgrx—vmmdeyzrryxeJgrxte zaxenxe.mqdecgsi!eCgax
.mqegekgl?”

“.xb,eZecgaxemsxeogzrzs t”

“RcxseZebcgyye mezsezrteLqreZenqbremoxebmnxrczs teHzsieocgreZemox,
OgrbmsteZegnegyyemhhekmymqdteZekgseimesmrczs ehmden.bxyht”

Zeogyjxieimosercxesgddmoevgbbg xelxroxxsercxeimqlyxedmoemhebyxxvxdb,
cmyizs en.eldxgrcermejxxvemqrercxeazyx,ebrqvxh.zs ehqnxbemhercxeidq ,
gsieymmjzs eglmqrehmdercxengsg xdteGbeZevgbbxiercxergyyengseocmebgrel.
rcxeldgwzxdeZehxyregebqiixsevyqkjegren.ebjzdr,egsiegeymoeamzkx
oczbvxdxi,e“Ogyjevgbrenx,egsiercxseymmjelgkjegrenxt”eRcxeomdibehxyy
uqzrxeizbrzskry.eqvmsen.exgdteZe ygskxieimosteRcx.ekmqyiemsy.ecgaxekmnx
hdmnercxemyiengsegren.ebzix,egsie.xrecxebgresmoegbeglbmdlxiegbexaxd,
axd.erczs,eaxd.eodzsjyxi,elxsreozrceg x,egsemvzqnevzvxeigs yzs eimos
hdmnelxroxxseczbejsxxb,egbercmq cezrecgieidmvvxiezsebcxxdeygbbzrqix
hdmneczbehzs xdbteZermmjeromebrxvbehmdogdiegsieymmjxielgkjteZrermmjegyy
n.ebxyh-kmsrdmyermevdxaxsrenxehdmneldxgjzs emqrezsrmegekd.emh
gbrmszbcnxsrteCxecgierqdsxieczbelgkjebmercgresmsxekmqyiebxxecznelqreZt
Czbehmdnecgiehzyyxiemqr,eczbeodzsjyxbeoxdxe msx,ercxeiqyyex.xbecgi
dx gzsxiercxzdehzdx,egsiercxdx,ebzrrzs el.ercxehzdxegsie dzsszs egren.
bqdvdzbx,eogbesmsxemrcxdercgseBcxdymkjeCmynxbteCxengixegebyz crenmrzms
rmenxermegvvdmgkceczn,egsiezsbrgsry.,egbecxerqdsxieczbehgkxecgyhedmqsi
rmercxekmnvgs.emskxenmdx,ebqlbzixiezsrmegeimiixdzs ,eymmbx-yzvvxi
bxszyzr.t

“Cmynxb!”eZeoczbvxdxi,e“ocgremsexgdrcegdxe.mqeimzs ezserczbeixs?”

“Gbeymoegbe.mqekgs,”ecxegsboxdxi;e“ZecgaxexpkxyyxsrexgdbteZhe.mqeomqyi
cgaxercxe dxgrejzsisxbberme xredziemhercgrebmrrzbcehdzxsiemhe.mqdbeZ
bcmqyielxexpkxxizs y.e ygiermecgaxegeyzrryxergyjeozrce.mqt”

“Zecgaxegekglemqrbzixt”

“Rcxsevdg.ebxsiecznecmnxezsezrte.mqeng.ebghxy.erdqbreczn,ehmdecx
gvvxgdbermelxermmeyznverme xrezsrmegs.enzbkczxhteZebcmqyiedxkmnnxsie.mq
gybmermebxsiegesmrxel.ercxekglngserme.mqdeozhxermebg.ercgre.mqecgax
rcdmosezse.mqdeymreozrcenxteZhe.mqeozyyeogzremqrbzix,eZebcgyyelxeozrc
.mqezsehzaxenzsqrxbt”

Zreogbeizhhzkqyrermedxhqbxegs.emheBcxdymkjeCmynxb’edxuqxbrb,ehmdercx.
oxdxegyog.bebmexpkxxizs y.eixhzszrx,egsievqrehmdogdieozrcebqkcegeuqzxr
gzdemhengbrxd.teZehxyr,ecmoxaxd,ercgreocxseOczrsx.eogbemskxekmshzsxiezs
rcxekglen.enzbbzmseogbevdgkrzkgyy.egkkmnvyzbcxi;egsiehmdercxedxbr,eZ
kmqyiesmreozbcegs.rczs elxrrxdercgsermelxegbbmkzgrxieozrcen.ehdzxsiezs
msxemhercmbxebzs qygdegiaxsrqdxbeoczkceoxdxercxesmdngyekmsizrzmsemheczb
xpzbrxskxteZsegehxoenzsqrxbeZecgieodzrrxsen.esmrx,evgzieOczrsx.’belzyy,
yxiecznemqrermercxekgl,egsiebxxseczneidzaxsercdmq cercxeigdjsxbbteZseg
axd.ebcmdrerznxegeixkdxvzrehz qdxecgiexnxd xiehdmnercxemvzqneixs,egsieZ
ogbeogyjzs eimosercxebrdxxreozrceBcxdymkjeCmynxbteHmderomebrdxxrbecx
bcqhhyxiegyms eozrcegelxsrelgkjegsiegseqskxdrgzsehmmrteRcxs,e ygskzs 
uqzkjy.edmqsi,ecxebrdgz crxsxiecznbxyhemqregsielqdbrezsrmegecxgdr.ehzr
mheygq crxdt

“Zebqvvmbx,eOgrbms,”ebgziecx,e“rcgre.mqezng zsxercgreZecgaxegiixi
mvzqn-bnmjzs ermekmkgzsxezsfxkrzmsb,egsiegyyercxemrcxdeyzrryx
oxgjsxbbxbemseoczkce.mqecgaxehgamqdxienxeozrce.mqdenxizkgyeazxobt”

“Zeogbekxdrgzsy.ebqdvdzbxiermehzsie.mqercxdxt”

“LqresmrenmdxebmercgseZermehzsie.mqt”

“Zekgnxermehzsiegehdzxsit”

“GsieZermehzsiegsexsxn.t”

“Gsexsxn.?”

“.xb;emsxemhen.esgrqdgyexsxnzxb,emd,ebcgyyeZebg.,en.esgrqdgyevdx.t
Ldzxhy.,eOgrbms,eZegnezsercxenzibremhegeaxd.edxngdjglyxezsuqzd.,egsieZ
cgaxecmvxiermehzsiegekyqxezsercxezskmcxdxsredgnlyzs bemhercxbxebmrb,egb
ZecgaxeimsxelxhmdxesmoteCgieZelxxsedxkm szbxiezsercgreixsen.eyzhxeomqyi
smrecgaxelxxseomdrcegsecmqd’bevqdkcgbx;ehmdeZecgaxeqbxiezrelxhmdxesmo
hmden.emosevqdvmbxb,egsiercxedgbkgyy.eYgbkgdeocmedqsbezrecgbebomdserm
cgaxeaxs xgskxeqvmsenxteRcxdxezbegerdgv-immdegrercxelgkjemhercgr
lqzyizs ,esxgdercxekmdsxdemheVgqy’beOcgdh,eoczkcekmqyierxyyebmnx
brdgs xergyxbemheocgrecgbevgbbxiercdmq cezreqvmsercxenmmsyxbbesz crbt”

“Ocgr!e.mqeimesmrenxgselmizxb?”

“G.,elmizxb,eOgrbmsteOxebcmqyielxedzkcenxsezheoxecgie£e1000ehmdexaxd.
vmmdeixazyeocmecgbelxxseimsxermeixgrcezsercgreixsteZrezbercxeazyxbr
nqdixd-rdgvemsercxeocmyxedzaxdbzix,egsieZehxgdercgreSxazyyxeBrteKygzd
cgbexsrxdxiezresxaxdermeyxgaxezrenmdxteLqremqderdgvebcmqyielxecxdxt”eCx
vqreczberomehmdxhzs xdbelxroxxseczberxxrcegsieoczbryxiebcdzyy.—gebz sgy
oczkceogbegsboxdxiel.egebznzygdeoczbryxehdmnercxeizbrgskx,ehmyymoxi
bcmdry.el.ercxedgrryxemheocxxybegsiercxekyzsjemhecmdbxb’ecmmhbt

“Smo,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxb,egbegergyyeim -kgdreigbcxieqvercdmq cercx
 ymmn,ercdmozs emqrerome myixserqssxybemhe.xyymoeyz crehdmnezrbebzix
ygsrxdsbte“.mq’yyekmnxeozrcenx,eoms’re.mq?”

“ZheZekgselxemheqbxt”

“Mc,egerdqbr.ekmndgixezbegyog.bemheqbx;egsiegekcdmszkyxdebrzyyenmdxebmt
N.edmmnegreRcxeKxigdbezbegeimqlyx-lxiixiemsxt”

“RcxeKxigdb?”

“.xb;ercgrezbeNdteBrteKygzd’becmqbxteZegnebrg.zs ercxdxeoczyxeZekmsiqkr
rcxezsuqzd.t”

“Ocxdxezbezr,ercxs?”

“SxgdeYxx,ezseJxsrteOxecgaxegebxaxs-nzyxeidzaxelxhmdxeqbt”

“LqreZegnegyyezsercxeigdjt”

“Mhekmqdbxe.mqegdxte.mq’yyejsmoegyyeglmqrezrevdxbxsry.teFqnveqvecxdxt
Gyyedz cr,eFmcs;eoxebcgyyesmresxxie.mqteCxdx’becgyhegekdmosteYmmjemqr
hmdenxerm-nmddmo,eglmqrexyxaxste zaxecxdecxdecxgiteBmeyms ,ercxs!”

Cxehyzkjxiercxecmdbxeozrceczbeoczv,egsieoxeigbcxiegog.ercdmq cercx
xsiyxbbebqkkxbbzmsemhebmnldxegsieixbxdrxiebrdxxrb,eoczkceozixsxi
 dgiqgyy.,eqsrzyeoxeoxdxehy.zs egkdmbbegeldmgielgyqbrdgixieldzi x,eozrc
rcxenqdj.edzaxdehymozs ebyq  zbcy.elxsxgrceqbteLx.msieyg.egsmrcxdeiqyy
ozyixdsxbbemheldzkjbegsienmdrgd,ezrbebzyxskxeldmjxsemsy.el.ercxecxga.,
dx qygdehmmrhgyyemhercxevmyzkxngs,emdercxebms begsiebcmqrbemhebmnx
lxygrxievgdr.emhedxaxyyxdbteGeiqyyeodgkjeogbeidzhrzs ebymoy.egkdmbbercx
bj.,egsiegebrgdemderomerozsjyxieizny.ecxdxegsiercxdxercdmq cercxedzhrb
mhercxekymqibteCmynxbeidmaxezsebzyxskx,eozrceczbecxgiebqsjeqvmseczb
ldxgbr,egsiercxegzdemhegengseocmezbeymbrezsercmq cr,eoczyxeZebgrelxbzix
czn,ekqdzmqbermeyxgdseocgrerczbesxoeuqxbrenz crelxeoczkcebxxnxiermergp
czbevmoxdbebmebmdxy.,egsie.xreghdgziermeldxgjezseqvmsercxekqddxsremh
czbercmq crbteOxecgieidzaxsebxaxdgyenzyxb,egsieoxdxelx zsszs erme xrerm
rcxehdzs xemhercxelxyremhebqlqdlgseazyygb,eocxsecxebcmmjecznbxyh,
bcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdb,egsieyzreqveczbevzvxeozrcercxegzdemhegengseocm
cgbebgrzbhzxiecznbxyhercgrecxezbegkrzs ehmdercxelxbrt

“.mqecgaxege dgsie zhremhebzyxskx,eOgrbms,”ebgziecxte“Zrengjxbe.mq
uqzrxezsagyqglyxegbegekmnvgszmste’Vmsen.eomdi,ezrezbege dxgrerczs ehmd
nxermecgaxebmnxmsxermergyjerm,ehmden.emosercmq crbegdxesmr
maxd-vyxgbgsrteZeogbeomsixdzs eocgreZebcmqyiebg.ermerczbeixgdeyzrryx
omngserm-sz creocxsebcxenxxrbenxegrercxeimmdt”

“.mqehmd xrercgreZejsmoesmrczs eglmqrezrt”

“Zebcgyyefqbrecgaxerznxermerxyye.mqercxehgkrbemhercxekgbxelxhmdxeoxe xr
rmeYxxteZrebxxnbeglbqdiy.ebznvyx,egsie.xr,ebmnxcmoeZekgse xresmrczs erm
 meqvmsteRcxdx’bevyxsr.emhercdxgi,esmeimqlr,elqreZekgs’re xrercxexsiemh
zrezsrmen.ecgsiteSmo,eZ’yyebrgrxercxekgbxekyxgdy.egsiekmskzbxy.erme.mq,
Ogrbms,egsieng.lxe.mqekgsebxxegebvgdjeocxdxegyyezbeigdjermenxt”

“Vdmkxxi,ercxst”

“Bmnxe.xgdbeg m—rmelxeixhzszrx,ezseNg.,e1884—rcxdxekgnxermeYxxeg
 xsryxngs,eSxazyyxeBrteKygzdel.esgnx,eocmegvvxgdxiermecgaxevyxsr.emh
nmsx.teCxermmjegeygd xeazyyg,eygziemqrercxe dmqsibeaxd.eszkxy.,egsi
yzaxie xsxdgyy.ezse mmiebr.yxteL.eix dxxbecxengixehdzxsibezsercx
sxz clmqdcmmi,egsiezse1887ecxengddzxiercxeigq crxdemhegeymkgyeldxoxd,
l.eocmnecxesmoecgberomekczyidxsteCxecgiesmemkkqvgrzms,elqreogb
zsrxdxbrxiezsebxaxdgyekmnvgszxbegsieoxsrezsrmermosegbegedqyxezsercx
nmdszs ,edxrqdszs el.ercxe5:14ehdmneKgssmseBrdxxrexaxd.esz crteNdteBrt
Kygzdezbesmoerczdr.-bxaxse.xgdbemheg x,ezbegengsemherxnvxdgrxecglzrb,eg
 mmiecqblgsi,egeaxd.eghhxkrzmsgrxehgrcxd,egsiegengseocmezbevmvqygdeozrc
gyyeocmejsmoecznteZeng.egiiercgreczbeocmyxeixlrbegrercxevdxbxsrenmnxsr,
gbehgdegbeoxecgaxelxxseglyxermegbkxdrgzs,egnmqsrerme£e88e10_b_t,eoczyx
cxecgbe£e220ebrgsizs ermeczbekdxizrezsercxeKgvzrgyegsieKmqsrzxbeLgsjt
Rcxdxezbesmedxgbms,ercxdxhmdx,ermerczsjercgrenmsx.erdmqlyxbecgaxelxxs
oxz czs eqvmseczbenzsit

“YgbreNmsig.eNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzdeoxsrezsrmermosedgrcxdexgdyzxdercgs
qbqgy,edxngdjzs elxhmdxecxebrgdrxiercgrecxecgieromeznvmdrgsr
kmnnzbbzmsbermevxdhmdn,egsiercgrecxeomqyieldzs eczbeyzrryxelm.ecmnxeg
lmpemheldzkjbteSmo,el.ercxenxdxbrekcgskx,eczbeozhxedxkxzaxiegerxyx dgn
qvmserczbebgnxeNmsig.,eaxd.ebcmdry.eghrxdeczbeixvgdrqdx,ermercxexhhxkr
rcgregebngyyevgdkxyemhekmsbzixdglyxeagyqxeoczkcebcxecgielxxsexpvxkrzs 
ogbeogzrzs ehmdecxdegrercxemhhzkxbemhercxeGlxdixxseBczvvzs eKmnvgs.t
Smo,ezhe.mqegdxeoxyyeqvezse.mqdeYmsims,e.mqeozyyejsmoercgrercxemhhzkx
mhercxekmnvgs.ezbezseHdxbsmeBrdxxr,eoczkceldgskcxbemqremheQvvxdeBogsign
Ygsx,eocxdxe.mqehmqsienxerm-sz crteNdbteBrteKygzdecgiecxdeyqskc,
brgdrxiehmdercxeKzr.,eiziebmnxebcmvvzs ,evdmkxxixiermercxekmnvgs.’b
mhhzkx,e mrecxdevgkjxr,egsiehmqsiecxdbxyhegrexpgkry.e4:35eogyjzs 
rcdmq ceBogsigneYgsxemsecxdeog.elgkjermercxebrgrzmsteCgaxe.mqehmyymoxi
nxebmehgd?”

“Zrezbeaxd.ekyxgdt”

“Zhe.mqedxnxnlxd,eNmsig.eogbegsexpkxxizs y.ecmreig.,egsieNdbteBrteKygzd
ogyjxiebymoy.,e ygskzs eglmqrezsercxecmvxemhebxxzs egekgl,egbebcxeizi
smreyzjxercxesxz clmqdcmmiezseoczkcebcxehmqsiecxdbxyhteOczyxebcxeogb
ogyjzs ezserczbeog.eimoseBogsigneYgsx,ebcxebqiixsy.ecxgdiegs
xfgkqygrzmsemdekd.,egsieogbebrdqkjekmyiermebxxecxdecqblgsieymmjzs eimos
grecxdegsi,egbezrebxxnxiermecxd,elxkjmszs ermecxdehdmnegebxkmsi-hymmd
ozsimoteRcxeozsimoeogbemvxs,egsiebcxeizbrzskry.ebgoeczbehgkx,eoczkcebcx
ixbkdzlxbegbelxzs erxddzly.eg zrgrxiteCxeogaxieczbecgsibehdgsrzkgyy.erm
cxd,egsiercxseagszbcxiehdmnercxeozsimoebmebqiixsy.ercgrezrebxxnxierm
cxdercgrecxecgielxxsevyqkjxielgkjel.ebmnxezddxbzbrzlyxehmdkxehdmn
lxczsiteMsxebzs qygdevmzsreoczkcebrdqkjecxdeuqzkjehxnzszsxex.xeogbercgr
gyrcmq cecxeomdxebmnxeigdjekmgr,ebqkcegbecxecgiebrgdrxiermermosezs,ecx
cgiemsesxzrcxdekmyygdesmdesxkjrzxt

“Kmsazskxiercgrebmnxrczs eogbegnzbbeozrceczn,ebcxedqbcxieimosercx
brxvb—hmdercxecmqbxeogbesmsxemrcxdercgsercxemvzqneixsezseoczkce.mq
hmqsienxerm-sz cr—gsiedqsszs ercdmq cercxehdmsredmmnebcxegrrxnvrxierm
gbkxsiercxebrgzdbeoczkceyxiermercxehzdbrehymmdteGrercxehmmremhercx
brgzdb,ecmoxaxd,ebcxenxrerczbeYgbkgdebkmqsidxyemheocmneZecgaxebvmjxs,
ocmercdqbrecxdelgkjegsi,egzixiel.egeIgsx,eocmegkrbegbegbbzbrgsrercxdx,
vqbcxiecxdemqrezsrmercxebrdxxrteHzyyxieozrcercxenmbrengiixszs eimqlrb
gsiehxgdb,ebcxedqbcxieimosercxeygsxegsi,el.edgdxe mmi-hmdrqsx,enxrezs
HdxbsmeBrdxxregesqnlxdemhekmsbrglyxbeozrcegsezsbvxkrmd,egyyemsercxzd
og.ermercxzdelxgrteRcxezsbvxkrmdegsieromenxsegkkmnvgszxiecxdelgkj,egsi
zsebvzrxemhercxekmsrzsqxiedxbzbrgskxemhercxevdmvdzxrmd,ercx.engixercxzd
og.ermercxedmmnezseoczkceNdteBrteKygzdecgieygbrelxxsebxxsteRcxdxeogbesm
bz semhecznercxdxteZsehgkr,ezsercxeocmyxemhercgrehymmdercxdxeogbesmemsx
rmelxehmqsiebgaxegekdzvvyxieodxrkcemheczixmqbegbvxkr,eocm,ezrebxxnb,
ngixeczbecmnxercxdxteLmrcecxegsiercxeYgbkgdebrmqry.ebomdxercgresmemsx
xybxecgielxxsezsercxehdmsredmmneiqdzs ercxeghrxdsmmsteBmeixrxdnzsxieogb
rcxzdeixszgyercgrercxezsbvxkrmdeogbebrg  xdxi,egsiecgiegynmbrekmnxerm
lxyzxaxercgreNdbteBrteKygzdecgielxxseixyqixieocxs,eozrcegekd.,ebcx
bvdgs egregebngyyeixgyelmpeoczkceyg.eqvmsercxerglyxegsiermdxercxeyzi
hdmnezrteMqrercxdxehxyyegekgbkgixemhekczyidxs’beldzkjbteZreogbercxerm.
oczkcecxecgievdmnzbxiermeldzs ecmnxt

“Rczbeizbkmaxd.,egsiercxexazixsrekmshqbzmseoczkcercxekdzvvyxebcmoxi,
ngixercxezsbvxkrmdedxgyzbxercgrercxengrrxdeogbebxdzmqbteRcxedmmnbeoxdx
kgdxhqyy.expgnzsxi,egsiedxbqyrbegyyevmzsrxiermegseglmnzsglyxekdznxteRcx
hdmsredmmneogbevygzsy.ehqdszbcxiegbegebzrrzs -dmmnegsieyxiezsrmegebngyy
lxidmmn,eoczkceymmjxiemqreqvmsercxelgkjemhemsxemhercxeocgdaxbteLxroxxs
rcxeocgdhegsiercxelxidmmneozsimoezbegesgddmoebrdzv,eoczkcezbeid.egreymo
rzixelqrezbekmaxdxiegrecz cerzixeozrcegreyxgbrehmqdegsiegecgyhehxxremh
ogrxdteRcxelxidmmneozsimoeogbegeldmgiemsxegsiemvxsxiehdmnelxymoteMs
xpgnzsgrzmserdgkxbemhelymmieoxdxermelxebxxseqvmsercxeozsimobzyy,egsi
bxaxdgyebkgrrxdxieidmvbeoxdxeazbzlyxeqvmsercxeommixsehymmdemhercx
lxidmmnteRcdqbregog.elxczsiegekqdrgzsezsercxehdmsredmmneoxdxegyyercx
kymrcxbemheNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd,eozrcercxexpkxvrzmsemheczbekmgrteCzb
lmmrb,eczbebmkjb,eczbecgr,egsieczbeogrkc—gyyeoxdxercxdxteRcxdxeoxdxesm
bz sbemheazmyxskxeqvmsegs.emhercxbxe gdnxsrb,egsiercxdxeoxdxesmemrcxd
rdgkxbemheNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzdteMqremhercxeozsimoecxenqbregvvgdxsry.
cgaxe msxehmdesmemrcxdexpzrekmqyielxeizbkmaxdxi,egsiercxemnzsmqb
lymmibrgzsbeqvmsercxebzyye gaxeyzrryxevdmnzbxercgrecxekmqyiebgax
cznbxyhel.eboznnzs ,ehmdercxerzixeogbegrezrbeaxd.ecz cxbregrercxenmnxsr
mhercxerdg xi.t

“Gsiesmoegbermercxeazyygzsbeocmebxxnxiermelxeznnxizgrxy.eznvyzkgrxiezs
rcxengrrxdteRcxeYgbkgdeogbejsmosermelxegengsemhercxeazyxbregsrxkxixsrb,
lqregb,el.eNdbteBrteKygzd’bebrmd.,ecxeogbejsmosermecgaxelxxsegrercx
hmmremhercxebrgzdeozrczsegeaxd.ehxoebxkmsibemhecxdecqblgsi’begvvxgdgskx
grercxeozsimo,ecxekmqyiecgdiy.ecgaxelxxsenmdxercgsegsegkkxbbmd.ermercx
kdznxteCzbeixhxskxeogbemsxemheglbmyqrxez smdgskx,egsiecxevdmrxbrxiercgr
cxecgiesmejsmoyxi xegbermercxeimzs bemheCq ceLmmsx,eczbeymi xd,egsi
rcgrecxekmqyiesmregkkmqsrezsegs.eog.ehmdercxevdxbxskxemhercxenzbbzs 
 xsryxngs’bekymrcxbt

“BmenqkcehmdercxeYgbkgdengsg xdteSmoehmdercxebzszbrxdekdzvvyxeocmeyzaxb
qvmsercxebxkmsiehymmdemhercxemvzqneixs,egsieocmeogbekxdrgzsy.ercxeygbr
cqngselxzs eocmbxex.xbedxbrxieqvmseSxazyyxeBrteKygzdteCzbesgnxezbeCq c
Lmmsx,egsieczbeczixmqbehgkxezbemsxeoczkcezbehgnzyzgdermexaxd.engseocm
 mxbenqkcermercxeKzr.teCxezbegevdmhxbbzmsgyelx  gd,ercmq cezsemdixderm
gamziercxevmyzkxedx qygrzmsbecxevdxrxsibermegebngyyerdgixezseogp
axbrgbteBmnxeyzrryxeizbrgskxeimoseRcdxgisxxiyxeBrdxxr,eqvmsercx
yxhr-cgsiebzix,ercxdxezb,egbe.mqeng.ecgaxedxngdjxi,egebngyyegs yxezs
rcxeogyyteCxdxezrezbercgrerczbekdxgrqdxergjxbeczbeigzy.ebxgr,
kdmbb-yx  xieozrceczberzs.ebrmkjemhengrkcxbemseczbeygv,egsiegbecxezbeg
vzrxmqbebvxkrgkyxegebngyyedgzsemhekcgdzr.eixbkxsibezsrmercxe dxgb.
yxgrcxdekgveoczkceyzxbeqvmsercxevgaxnxsrelxbzixecznteZecgaxeogrkcxiercx
hxyymoenmdxercgsemskxelxhmdxexaxdeZercmq cremhengjzs eczbevdmhxbbzmsgy
gkuqgzsrgskx,egsieZecgaxelxxsebqdvdzbxiegrercxecgdaxbreoczkcecxecgb
dxgvxiezsegebcmdrerznxteCzbegvvxgdgskx,e.mqebxx,ezbebmedxngdjglyxercgr
smemsxekgsevgbbeczneozrcmqremlbxdazs ecznteGebcmkjemhemdgs xecgzd,eg
vgyxehgkxeizbhz qdxiel.egecmddzlyxebkgd,eoczkc,el.ezrbekmsrdgkrzms,ecgb
rqdsxieqvercxemqrxdexi xemheczbeqvvxdeyzv,egelqyyim ekczs,egsiegevgzd
mheaxd.evxsxrdgrzs eigdjex.xb,eoczkcevdxbxsregebzs qygdekmsrdgbrermercx
kmymqdemheczbecgzd,egyyengdjecznemqrehdmnegnziercxekmnnmsekdmoiemh
nxsizkgsrbegsiebm,ermm,eimxbeczbeozr,ehmdecxezbexaxdedxgi.eozrcegedxvy.
rmegs.evzxkxemhekcghheoczkceng.elxercdmosegrecznel.ercxevgbbxdb-l.t
Rczbezbercxengseocmneoxesmoeyxgdsermecgaxelxxsercxeymi xdegrercxemvzqn
ixs,egsiermecgaxelxxsercxeygbrengsermebxxercxe xsryxngsemheocmneoxegdx
zseuqxbrt”

“Lqregekdzvvyx!”ebgzieZte“Ocgrekmqyiecxecgaxeimsxebzs yx-cgsixieg gzsbr
gengsezsercxevdznxemheyzhx?”

“Cxezbegekdzvvyxezsercxebxsbxercgrecxeogyjbeozrcegeyznv;elqrezsemrcxd
dxbvxkrbecxegvvxgdbermelxegevmoxdhqyegsieoxyy-sqdrqdxiengsteBqdxy.e.mqd
nxizkgyexpvxdzxskxeomqyierxyye.mq,eOgrbms,ercgreoxgjsxbbezsemsxeyznlezb
mhrxsekmnvxsbgrxiehmdel.expkxvrzmsgyebrdxs rcezsercxemrcxdbt”

“Vdg.ekmsrzsqxe.mqdesgddgrzaxt”

“NdbteBrteKygzdecgiehgzsrxiegrercxebz cremhercxelymmieqvmsercxeozsimo,
gsiebcxeogbexbkmdrxiecmnxezsegekglel.ercxevmyzkx,egbecxdevdxbxskxekmqyi
lxemhesmecxyvermercxnezsercxzdezsaxbrz grzmsbteZsbvxkrmdeLgdrms,eocm
cgiekcgd xemhercxekgbx,engixegeaxd.ekgdxhqyexpgnzsgrzmsemhercx
vdxnzbxb,elqreozrcmqrehzsizs egs.rczs eoczkcercdxoegs.eyz creqvmsercx
ngrrxdteMsxenzbrgjxecgielxxsengixezsesmregddxbrzs eLmmsxezsbrgsry.,egb
cxeogbegyymoxiebmnxehxoenzsqrxbeiqdzs eoczkcecxenz crecgaxekmnnqszkgrxi
ozrceczbehdzxsiercxeYgbkgd,elqrerczbehgqyreogbebmmsedxnxizxi,egsiecx
ogbebxzwxiegsiebxgdkcxi,eozrcmqregs.rczs elxzs ehmqsieoczkcekmqyi
zskdznzsgrxecznteRcxdxeoxdx,ezrezberdqx,ebmnxelymmi-brgzsbeqvmseczb
dz crebczdr-byxxax,elqrecxevmzsrxiermeczbedzs -hzs xd,eoczkcecgielxxs
kqresxgdercxesgzy,egsiexpvygzsxiercgrercxelyxxizs ekgnxehdmnercxdx,
giizs ercgrecxecgielxxsermercxeozsimoesmreyms elxhmdx,egsiercgrercx
brgzsbeoczkcecgielxxsemlbxdaxiercxdxekgnxeimqlryxbbehdmnercxebgnx
bmqdkxteCxeixszxiebrdxsqmqby.ecgazs exaxdebxxseNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd
gsiebomdxercgrercxevdxbxskxemhercxekymrcxbezseczbedmmneogbegbenqkceg
n.brxd.ermecznegbermercxevmyzkxteGbermeNdbteBrteKygzd’begbbxdrzmsercgr
bcxecgiegkrqgyy.ebxxsecxdecqblgsiegrercxeozsimo,ecxeixkygdxiercgrebcx
nqbrecgaxelxxsexzrcxdengiemdeidxgnzs teCxeogbedxnmaxi,eymqiy.
vdmrxbrzs ,ermercxevmyzkx-brgrzms,eoczyxercxezsbvxkrmdedxngzsxieqvms
rcxevdxnzbxbezsercxecmvxercgrercxexllzs erzixenz creghhmdiebmnxehdxbc
kyqxt

“Gsiezreizi,ercmq cercx.ecgdiy.ehmqsieqvmsercxenqi-lgsjeocgrercx.ecgi
hxgdxiermehzsiteZreogbeSxazyyxeBrteKygzd’bekmgr,egsiesmreSxazyyxeBrt
Kygzd,eoczkceyg.eqskmaxdxiegbercxerzixedxkxixiteGsieocgreime.mqerczsj
rcx.ehmqsiezsercxevmkjxrb?”

“Zekgssmrezng zsxt”

“Sm,eZeims’rerczsje.mqeomqyie qxbbteXaxd.evmkjxrebrqhhxieozrcevxsszxb
gsiecgyh-vxsszxb—421evxsszxbegsie270ecgyh-vxsszxbteZreogbesmeomsixd
rcgrezrecgiesmrelxxseboxvregog.el.ercxerzixteLqregecqngselmi.ezbeg
izhhxdxsrengrrxdteRcxdxezbegehzxdkxexii.elxroxxsercxeocgdhegsiercx
cmqbxteZrebxxnxieyzjxy.exsmq cercgrercxeoxz crxiekmgrecgiedxngzsxieocxs
rcxebrdzvvxielmi.ecgielxxsebqkjxiegog.ezsrmercxedzaxdt”

“LqreZeqsixdbrgsiercgregyyercxemrcxdekymrcxbeoxdxehmqsiezsercxedmmnt
Omqyiercxelmi.elxeidxbbxiezsegekmgregymsx?”

“Sm,ebzd,elqrercxehgkrbenz crelxenxrebvxkzmqby.exsmq cteBqvvmbxercgr
rczbengseLmmsxecgiercdqbreSxazyyxeBrteKygzdercdmq cercxeozsimo,ercxdx
zbesmecqngsex.xeoczkcekmqyiecgaxebxxsercxeixxiteOcgreomqyiecxeimercxs?
Zreomqyiemhekmqdbxezsbrgsry.ebrdzjxecznercgrecxenqbre xredziemhercx
rxyy-rgyxe gdnxsrbteCxeomqyiebxzwxercxekmgr,ercxs,egsielxezsercxegkremh
rcdmozs ezremqr,eocxsezreomqyiemkkqdermecznercgrezreomqyieboznegsiesmr
bzsjteCxecgbeyzrryxerznx,ehmdecxecgbecxgdiercxebkqhhyxeimosbrgzdbeocxs
rcxeozhxerdzxiermehmdkxecxdeog.eqv,egsievxdcgvbecxecgbegydxgi.ecxgdi
hdmneczbeYgbkgdekmshxixdgrxercgrercxevmyzkxegdxecqdd.zs eqvercxebrdxxrt
RcxdxezbesmregsezsbrgsrermelxeymbrteCxedqbcxbermebmnxebxkdxrecmgdi,
ocxdxecxecgbegkkqnqygrxiercxehdqzrbemheczbelx  gd.,egsiecxebrqhhbegyy
rcxekmzsbeqvmseoczkcecxekgseyg.eczbecgsibezsrmercxevmkjxrbermengjxebqdx
mhercxekmgr’bebzsjzs teCxercdmobezremqr,egsieomqyiecgaxeimsxercxebgnx
ozrcercxemrcxde gdnxsrbecgiesmrecxecxgdiercxedqbcemhebrxvbelxymo,egsi
msy.efqbrecgierznxermekymbxercxeozsimoeocxsercxevmyzkxegvvxgdxit”

“Zrekxdrgzsy.ebmqsibehxgbzlyxt”

“Oxyy,eoxeozyyergjxezregbegeomdjzs ec.vmrcxbzbehmdeogsremhegelxrrxdt
Lmmsx,egbeZecgaxermyie.mq,eogbegddxbrxiegsiergjxsermercxebrgrzms,elqr
zrekmqyiesmrelxebcmosercgrercxdxecgiexaxdelxhmdxelxxsegs.rczs eg gzsbr
cznteCxecgiehmde.xgdbelxxsejsmosegbegevdmhxbbzmsgyelx  gd,elqreczbeyzhx
gvvxgdxiermecgaxelxxsegeaxd.euqzxregsiezssmkxsremsxteRcxdxercxengrrxd
brgsibegrevdxbxsr,egsiercxeuqxbrzmsbeoczkcecgaxermelxebmyaxi—ocgr
SxazyyxeBrteKygzdeogbeimzs ezsercxemvzqneixs,eocgrecgvvxsxiermeczneocxs
rcxdx,eocxdxezbecxesmo,egsieocgreCq ceLmmsxecgiermeimeozrceczb
izbgvvxgdgskx—gdxegyyegbehgdehdmnegebmyqrzmsegbexaxdteZekmshxbbercgreZ
kgssmredxkgyyegs.ekgbxeozrczsen.expvxdzxskxeoczkceymmjxiegrercxehzdbr
 ygskxebmebznvyxegsie.xreoczkcevdxbxsrxiebqkceizhhzkqyrzxbt”

OczyxeBcxdymkjeCmynxbecgielxxseixrgzyzs erczbebzs qygdebxdzxbemh
xaxsrb,eoxecgielxxseoczdyzs ercdmq cercxemqrbjzdrbemhercxe dxgrermos
qsrzyercxeygbrebrdg  yzs ecmqbxbecgielxxseyxhrelxczsi,egsieoxedgrryxi
gyms eozrcegekmqsrd.ecxi xeqvmsexzrcxdebzixemheqbteFqbregbecxehzszbcxi,
cmoxaxd,eoxeidmaxercdmq ceromebkgrrxdxieazyyg xb,eocxdxegehxoeyz crb
brzyye yznnxdxiezsercxeozsimobt

“OxegdxemsercxemqrbjzdrbemheYxx,”ebgzien.ekmnvgszmste“Oxecgaxermqkcxi
msercdxxeXs yzbcekmqsrzxbezsemqdebcmdreidzax,ebrgdrzs ezseNziiyxbxp,
vgbbzs emaxdegsegs yxemheBqddx.,egsiexsizs ezseJxsrteBxxercgreyz cr
gnms ercxerdxxb?eRcgrezbeRcxeKxigdb,egsielxbzixercgreygnvebzrbegeomngs
ocmbxegspzmqbexgdbecgaxegydxgi.,eZecgaxeyzrryxeimqlr,ekgq crercxekyzsj
mhemqdecmdbx’behxxrt”

“Lqreoc.egdxe.mqesmrekmsiqkrzs ercxekgbxehdmneLgjxdeBrdxxr?”eZegbjxit

“Lxkgqbxercxdxegdxengs.ezsuqzdzxbeoczkcenqbrelxengixemqrecxdxteNdbteBrt
Kygzdecgbenmbrejzsiy.evqreromedmmnbegren.eizbvmbgy,egsie.mqeng.edxbr
gbbqdxiercgrebcxeozyyecgaxesmrczs elqregeoxykmnxehmden.ehdzxsiegsi
kmyyxg qxteZecgrxermenxxrecxd,eOgrbms,eocxseZecgaxesmesxobemhecxd
cqblgsiteCxdxeoxegdxteOcmg,ercxdx,eocmg!”

Oxecgievqyyxieqvezsehdmsremhegeygd xeazyygeoczkcebrmmieozrczsezrbemos
 dmqsibteGebrglyx-lm.ecgiedqsemqrermercxecmdbx’becxgi,egsiebvdzs zs 
imos,eZehmyymoxieCmynxbeqvercxebngyy,eozsizs e dgaxy-idzaxeoczkceyxierm
rcxecmqbxteGbeoxegvvdmgkcxi,ercxeimmdehyxoemvxs,egsiegeyzrryxelymsix
omngsebrmmiezsercxemvxszs ,ekygiezsebmnxebmdremheyz crenmqbbxyzsxeix
bmzx,eozrcegermqkcemhehyqhh.evzsjekczhhmsegrecxdesxkjegsieodzbrbteBcx
brmmieozrcecxdehz qdxemqryzsxieg gzsbrercxehymmiemheyz cr,emsxecgsi
qvmsercxeimmd,emsxecgyh-dgzbxiezsecxdexg xdsxbb,ecxdelmi.ebyz cry.
lxsr,ecxdecxgiegsiehgkxevdmrdqixi,eozrcexg xdex.xbegsievgdrxieyzvb,eg
brgsizs euqxbrzmst

“Oxyy?”ebcxekdzxi,e“oxyy?”eGsiercxs,ebxxzs ercgrercxdxeoxdxeromemheqb,
bcxe gaxegekd.emhecmvxeoczkcebgsjezsrmege dmgsegbebcxebgoercgren.
kmnvgszmsebcmmjeczbecxgiegsiebcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdbt

“Sme mmiesxob?”

“Smsxt”

“Smelgi?”

“Smt”

“Rcgsje miehmdercgrteLqrekmnxezste.mqenqbrelxeoxgd.,ehmde.mqecgaxecgieg
yms eig.t”

“Rczbezben.ehdzxsi,eIdteOgrbmsteCxecgbelxxsemhenmbreazrgyeqbxermenxezs
bxaxdgyemhen.ekgbxb,egsiegeyqkj.ekcgskxecgbengixezrevmbbzlyxehmdenxerm
ldzs ecznemqregsiegbbmkzgrxeczneozrcerczbezsaxbrz grzmst”

“Zegneixyz crxiermebxxe.mq,”ebgziebcx,evdxbbzs en.ecgsieogdny.te“.mq
ozyy,eZegnebqdx,ehmd zaxegs.rczs ercgreng.elxeogsrzs ezsemqd
gddgs xnxsrb,eocxse.mqekmsbzixdercxelymoeoczkcecgbekmnxebmebqiixsy.
qvmseqbt”

“N.eixgdengign,”ebgzieZ,e“Zegnegsemyiekgnvgz sxd,egsiezheZeoxdxesmreZ
kgseaxd.eoxyyebxxercgresmegvmym .ezbesxxixiteZheZekgselxemhegs.
gbbzbrgskx,exzrcxderme.mqemdermen.ehdzxsiecxdx,eZebcgyyelxezsixxi
cgvv.t”

“Smo,eNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,”ebgziercxeygi.egbeoxexsrxdxiegeoxyy-yzr
izszs -dmmn,eqvmsercxerglyxemheoczkcegekmyiebqvvxdecgielxxseygziemqr,
“Zebcmqyieaxd.enqkceyzjxermegbje.mqemsxemderomevygzseuqxbrzmsb,erm
oczkceZelx ercgre.mqeozyye zaxegevygzsegsboxdt”

“Kxdrgzsy.,engignt”

“Imesmrerdmqlyxeglmqren.ehxxyzs bteZegnesmrec.brxdzkgy,esmde zaxserm
hgzsrzs teZebznvy.eozbcermecxgde.mqdedxgy,edxgyemvzszmst”

“Qvmseocgrevmzsr?”

“Zse.mqdecxgdremhecxgdrb,eime.mqerczsjercgreSxazyyxezbegyzax?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebxxnxiermelxexnlgddgbbxiel.ercxeuqxbrzmste“Hdgsjy.,
smo!”ebcxedxvxgrxi,ebrgsizs eqvmsercxedq egsieymmjzs ejxxsy.eimosegr
cznegbecxeyxgsxielgkjezsegelgbjxr-kcgzdt

“Hdgsjy.,ercxs,engign,eZeimesmrt”

“.mqerczsjercgrecxezbeixgi?”

“Zeimt”

“Nqdixdxi?”

“Zeims’rebg.ercgrteVxdcgvbt”

“Gsiemseocgreig.eiziecxenxxreczbeixgrc?”

“MseNmsig.t”

“Rcxsevxdcgvb,eNdteCmynxb,e.mqeozyyelxe mmiexsmq cermexpvygzsecmoezrezb
rcgreZecgaxedxkxzaxiegeyxrrxdehdmnecznerm-ig.t”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebvdgs emqremheczbekcgzdegbezhecxecgielxxse gyagszbxit

“Ocgr!”ecxedmgdxit

“.xb,erm-ig.t”eBcxebrmmiebnzyzs ,ecmyizs eqvegeyzrryxebyzvemhevgvxdezs
rcxegzdt

“Ng.eZebxxezr?”

“Kxdrgzsy.t”

Cxebsgrkcxiezrehdmnecxdezseczbexg xdsxbb,egsiebnmmrczs ezremqreqvmsercx
rglyxecxeidxoemaxdercxeygnvegsiexpgnzsxiezrezsrxsry.teZecgieyxhren.
kcgzdegsieogbe gwzs egrezremaxdeczbebcmqyixdteRcxexsaxymvxeogbegeaxd.
kmgdbxemsxegsieogbebrgnvxieozrcercxe dgaxbxsievmbrngdjegsieozrcercx
igrxemhercgreaxd.eig.,emdedgrcxdemhercxeig.elxhmdx,ehmdezreogb
kmsbzixdgly.eghrxdenzisz crt

“Kmgdbxeodzrzs ,”enqdnqdxieCmynxbte“Bqdxy.erczbezbesmre.mqdecqblgsi’b
odzrzs ,engignt”

“Sm,elqrercxexskymbqdxezbt”

“Zevxdkxzaxegybmercgreocmxaxdegiidxbbxiercxexsaxymvxecgierme megsi
zsuqzdxegbermercxegiidxbbt”

“Cmoekgse.mqerxyyercgr?”

“Rcxesgnx,e.mqebxx,ezbezsevxdhxkry.elygkjezsj,eoczkcecgbeidzxiezrbxyht
Rcxedxbrezbemhercxe dx.zbcekmymqd,eoczkcebcmobercgrelymrrzs -vgvxdecgb
lxxseqbxiteZhezrecgielxxseodzrrxsebrdgz cremhh,egsiercxselymrrxi,esmsx
omqyielxemhegeixxvelygkjebcgixteRczbengsecgbeodzrrxsercxesgnx,egsi
rcxdxecgbercxselxxsegevgqbxelxhmdxecxeodmrxercxegiidxbb,eoczkcekgsemsy.
nxgsercgrecxeogbesmrehgnzyzgdeozrcezrteZrezb,emhekmqdbx,egerdzhyx,elqr
rcxdxezbesmrczs ebmeznvmdrgsregberdzhyxbteYxreqbesmoebxxercxeyxrrxdt
Cg!ercxdxecgbelxxsegsexskymbqdxecxdx!”

“.xb,ercxdxeogbegedzs teCzbebz sxr-dzs t”

“Gsie.mqegdxebqdxercgrerczbezbe.mqdecqblgsi’becgsi?”

“Msxemheczbecgsibt”

“Msx?”

“Czbecgsieocxsecxeodmrxecqddzxiy.teZrezbeaxd.eqsyzjxeczbeqbqgyeodzrzs ,
gsie.xreZejsmoezreoxyyt”

“‘Ixgdxbreimesmrelxehdz crxsxiteGyyeozyyekmnxeoxyyteRcxdxezbegecq x
xddmdeoczkcezreng.ergjxebmnxeyzrryxerznxermedxkrzh.teOgzrezs
vgrzxskxt—SXAZYYXt’eOdzrrxsezsevxskzyeqvmsercxehy.-yxghemhegelmmj,
mkrgamebzwx,esmeogrxd-ngdjteCqn!eVmbrxierm-ig.ezse dgaxbxsiel.egengs
ozrcegeizdr.ercqnlteCg!eGsiercxehygvecgbelxxse qnnxi,ezheZegnesmreaxd.
nqkcezsexddmd,el.egevxdbmseocmecgielxxsekcxozs ermlgkkmteGsie.mqecgax
smeimqlrercgrezrezbe.mqdecqblgsi’becgsi,engign?”

“SmsxteSxazyyxeodmrxercmbxeomdibt”

“Gsiercx.eoxdxevmbrxierm-ig.egre dgaxbxsiteOxyy,eNdbteBrteKygzd,ercx
kymqibeyz crxs,ercmq ceZebcmqyiesmreaxsrqdxermebg.ercgrercxeigs xdezb
maxdt”

“Lqrecxenqbrelxegyzax,eNdteCmynxbt”

“Qsyxbberczbezbegekyxaxdehmd xd.ermevqreqbemsercxeodms ebkxsrteRcx
dzs ,eghrxdegyy,evdmaxbesmrczs teZreng.ecgaxelxxsergjxsehdmnecznt”

“Sm,esm;ezrezb,ezrezbeczbeaxd.emoseodzrzs !”

“Axd.eoxyyteZreng.,ecmoxaxd,ecgaxelxxseodzrrxsemseNmsig.egsiemsy.
vmbrxierm-ig.t”

“Rcgrezbevmbbzlyxt”

“Zhebm,enqkceng.ecgaxecgvvxsxielxroxxst”

“Mc,e.mqenqbresmreizbkmqdg xenx,eNdteCmynxbteZejsmoercgregyyezbeoxyy
ozrcecznteRcxdxezbebmejxxsegeb.nvgrc.elxroxxseqbercgreZebcmqyiejsmoezh
xazyekgnxeqvmsecznteMsercxeaxd.eig.ercgreZebgoeczneygbrecxekqrecznbxyh
zsercxelxidmmn,egsie.xreZezsercxeizszs -dmmnedqbcxieqvbrgzdbezsbrgsry.
ozrcercxeqrnmbrekxdrgzsr.ercgrebmnxrczs ecgiecgvvxsxiteIme.mqerczsj
rcgreZeomqyiedxbvmsiermebqkcegerdzhyxegsie.xrelxez smdgsremheczb
ixgrc?”

“Zecgaxebxxsermmenqkcesmrermejsmoercgrercxeznvdxbbzmsemhegeomngseng.elx
nmdxeagyqglyxercgsercxekmskyqbzmsemhegsegsgy.rzkgyedxgbmsxdteGsiezs
rczbeyxrrxde.mqekxdrgzsy.ecgaxegeaxd.ebrdms evzxkxemhexazixskxerm
kmddmlmdgrxe.mqdeazxoteLqrezhe.mqdecqblgsiezbegyzaxegsieglyxermeodzrx
yxrrxdb,eoc.ebcmqyiecxedxngzsegog.ehdmne.mq?”

“Zekgssmrezng zsxteZrezbeqsrczsjglyxt”

“GsiemseNmsig.ecxengixesmedxngdjbelxhmdxeyxgazs e.mq?”

“Smt”

“Gsie.mqeoxdxebqdvdzbxiermebxxecznezseBogsigneYgsx?”

“Axd.enqkcebmt”

“Ogbercxeozsimoemvxs?”

“.xbt”

“Rcxsecxenz crecgaxekgyyxierme.mq?”

“Cxenz crt”

“Cxemsy.,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,e gaxegsezsgdrzkqygrxekd.?”

“.xbt”

“Gekgyyehmdecxyv,e.mqercmq cr?”

“.xbteCxeogaxieczbecgsibt”

“Lqrezrenz crecgaxelxxsegekd.emhebqdvdzbxteGbrmszbcnxsregrercx
qsxpvxkrxiebz cremhe.mqenz crekgqbxecznermercdmoeqveczbecgsib?”

“Zrezbevmbbzlyxt”

“Gsie.mqercmq crecxeogbevqyyxielgkj?”

“Cxeizbgvvxgdxiebmebqiixsy.t”

“Cxenz crecgaxeyxgvxielgkjte.mqeiziesmrebxxegs.msxexybxezsercxedmmn?”

“Sm,elqrerczbecmddzlyxengsekmshxbbxiermecgazs elxxsercxdx,egsiercx
Ygbkgdeogbegrercxehmmremhercxebrgzdbt”

“Uqzrxebmte.mqdecqblgsi,egbehgdegbe.mqekmqyiebxx,ecgieczbemdizsgd.
kymrcxbems?”

“LqreozrcmqreczbekmyygdemderzxteZeizbrzskry.ebgoeczbelgdxercdmgrt”

“CgiecxexaxdebvmjxsemheBogsigneYgsx?”

“Sxaxdt”

“Cgiecxexaxdebcmoxiegs.ebz sbemhecgazs ergjxsemvzqn?”

“Sxaxdt”

“Rcgsje.mq,eNdbteBrteKygzdteRcmbxegdxercxevdzskzvgyevmzsrbeglmqreoczkc
Zeozbcxiermelxeglbmyqrxy.ekyxgdteOxebcgyyesmoecgaxegeyzrryxebqvvxdegsi
rcxsedxrzdx,ehmdeoxeng.ecgaxegeaxd.elqb.eig.erm-nmddmot”

Geygd xegsiekmnhmdrglyxeimqlyx-lxiixiedmmnecgielxxsevygkxiegremqd
izbvmbgy,egsieZeogbeuqzkjy.elxroxxsercxebcxxrb,ehmdeZeogbeoxgd.eghrxd
n.esz cremhegiaxsrqdxteBcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbegengs,ecmoxaxd,eocm,eocxsecx
cgiegseqsbmyaxievdmlyxneqvmseczbenzsi,eomqyie mehmdeig.b,egsiexaxsehmd
geoxxj,eozrcmqredxbr,erqdszs ezremaxd,edxgddgs zs eczbehgkrb,eymmjzs 
grezrehdmnexaxd.evmzsremheazxoeqsrzyecxecgiexzrcxdehgrcmnxiezremd
kmsazskxiecznbxyhercgreczbeigrgeoxdxezsbqhhzkzxsrteZreogbebmmsexazixsr
rmenxercgrecxeogbesmoevdxvgdzs ehmdegsegyy-sz crebzrrzs teCxermmjemhh
czbekmgregsieogzbrkmgr,evqremsegeygd xelyqxeidxbbzs - mos,egsiercxs
ogsixdxieglmqrercxedmmnekmyyxkrzs evzyymobehdmneczbelxiegsiekqbczmsb
hdmnercxebmhgegsiegdnkcgzdbteOzrcercxbxecxekmsbrdqkrxiegebmdremh
Xgbrxdseizags,eqvmseoczkcecxevxdkcxiecznbxyhekdmbb-yx  xi,eozrcegs
mqskxemhebcg ermlgkkmegsiegelmpemhengrkcxbeygziemqrezsehdmsremhecznteZs
rcxeizneyz cremhercxeygnveZebgoecznebzrrzs ercxdx,egsemyieldzgdevzvx
lxroxxseczbeyzvb,eczbex.xbehzpxieagkgsry.eqvmsercxekmdsxdemhercx
kxzyzs ,ercxelyqxebnmjxekqdyzs eqvehdmneczn,ebzyxsr,enmrzmsyxbb,eozrc
rcxeyz crebczszs eqvmseczbebrdms -bxreguqzyzsxehxgrqdxbteBmecxebgregbeZ
idmvvxiemhhermebyxxv,egsiebmecxebgreocxsegebqiixsexfgkqygrzmsekgqbxienx
rmeogjxeqv,egsieZehmqsiercxebqnnxdebqsebczszs ezsrmercxegvgdrnxsrteRcx
vzvxeogbebrzyyelxroxxseczbeyzvb,ercxebnmjxebrzyyekqdyxieqvogdi,egsiercx
dmmneogbehqyyemhegeixsbxermlgkkmecgwx,elqresmrczs edxngzsxiemhercxecxgv
mhebcg eoczkceZecgiebxxseqvmsercxevdxazmqbesz crt

“Gogjx,eOgrbms?”ecxegbjxit

“.xbt”

“ gnxehmdegenmdszs eidzax?”

“Kxdrgzsy.t”

“RcxseidxbbteSmemsxezbebrzddzs e.xr,elqreZejsmoeocxdxercxebrglyx-lm.
byxxvb,egsieoxebcgyyebmmsecgaxercxerdgvemqrt”eCxekcqkjyxiermecznbxyhegb
cxebvmjx,eczbex.xberozsjyxi,egsiecxebxxnxiegeizhhxdxsrengsermercx
bmnldxerczsjxdemhercxevdxazmqbesz crt

GbeZeidxbbxieZe ygskxiegren.eogrkcteZreogbesmeomsixdercgresmemsxeogb
brzddzs teZreogberoxsr.-hzaxenzsqrxbevgbrehmqdteZecgiecgdiy.ehzszbcxi
ocxseCmynxbedxrqdsxieozrcercxesxobercgrercxelm.eogbevqrrzs ezsercx
cmdbxt

“Zeogsrermerxbregeyzrryxercxmd.emhenzsx,”ebgziecx,evqyyzs emseczb
lmmrbte“Zerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgre.mqegdxesmoebrgsizs ezsercxevdxbxskxemh
msxemhercxenmbreglbmyqrxehmmybezseXqdmvxteZeixbxdaxermelxejzkjxiehdmn
cxdxermeKcgdzs eKdmbbteLqreZerczsjeZecgaxercxejx.emhercxeghhgzdesmot”

“Gsieocxdxezbezr?”eZegbjxi,ebnzyzs t

“Zsercxelgrcdmmn,”ecxegsboxdxite“Mc,e.xb,eZegnesmrefmjzs ,”ecx
kmsrzsqxi,ebxxzs en.eymmjemhezskdxiqyzr.te“Zecgaxefqbrelxxsercxdx,egsi
Zecgaxergjxsezremqr,egsieZecgaxe mrezrezserczbe ygibrmsxelg teKmnxems,
n.elm.,egsieoxebcgyyebxxeocxrcxdezreozyyesmrehzrercxeymkjt”

Oxengixemqdeog.eimosbrgzdbegbeuqzxry.egbevmbbzlyx,egsiemqrezsrmercx
ldz crenmdszs ebqsbczsxteZsercxedmgiebrmmiemqdecmdbxegsierdgv,eozrcercx
cgyh-kygiebrglyx-lm.eogzrzs egrercxecxgiteOxelmrcebvdgs ezs,egsiegog.
oxeigbcxieimosercxeYmsimseDmgiteGehxoekmqsrd.ekgdrbeoxdxebrzddzs ,
lxgdzs ezseax xrglyxbermercxenxrdmvmyzb,elqrercxeyzsxbemheazyygbems
xzrcxdebzixeoxdxegbebzyxsregsieyzhxyxbbegbebmnxekzr.ezsegeidxgnt

“Zrecgbelxxsezsebmnxevmzsrbegebzs qygdekgbx,”ebgzieCmynxb,ehyzkjzs ercx
cmdbxemsezsrmege gyymvte“ZekmshxbbercgreZecgaxelxxsegbelyzsiegbegenmyx,
lqrezrezbelxrrxdermeyxgdseozbimneygrxercgsesxaxdermeyxgdsezregregyyt”

Zsermosercxexgdyzxbredzbxdbeoxdxefqbrelx zsszs ermeymmjebyxxvzy.ehdmn
rcxzdeozsimobegbeoxeidmaxercdmq cercxebrdxxrbemhercxeBqddx.ebzixt
Vgbbzs eimosercxeOgrxdymmeLdzi xeDmgieoxekdmbbxiemaxdercxedzaxd,egsi
igbczs eqveOxyyzs rmseBrdxxreocxxyxiebcgdvy.ermercxedz cregsiehmqsi
mqdbxyaxbezseLmoeBrdxxrteBcxdymkjeCmynxbeogbeoxyyejsmosermercxehmdkx,
gsiercxeromekmsbrglyxbegrercxeimmdebgyqrxiecznteMsxemhercxnecxyiercx
cmdbx’becxgieoczyxercxemrcxdeyxieqbezst

“Ocmezbemseiqr.?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“ZsbvxkrmdeLdgibrdxxr,ebzdt”

“Gc,eLdgibrdxxr,ecmoegdxe.mq?”eGergyy,ebrmqremhhzkzgyecgiekmnxeimosercx
brmsx-hyg  xievgbbg x,ezsegevxgjxiekgvegsiehdm  xiefgkjxrte“Zeozbcerm
cgaxegeuqzxreomdieozrce.mq,eLdgibrdxxrt”

“Kxdrgzsy.,eNdteCmynxbteBrxvezsrmen.edmmnecxdxt”

Zreogbegebngyy,emhhzkx-yzjxedmmn,eozrcegecq xeyxi xdeqvmsercxerglyx,
gsiegerxyxvcmsxevdmfxkrzs ehdmnercxeogyyteRcxezsbvxkrmdebgreimosegreczb
ixbjt

“OcgrekgseZeimehmde.mq,eNdteCmynxb?”

“Zekgyyxieglmqrercgrelx  gdngs,eLmmsx—rcxemsxeocmeogbekcgd xieozrc
lxzs ekmskxdsxiezsercxeizbgvvxgdgskxemheNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd,emheYxxt”

“.xbteCxeogbeldmq creqvegsiedxngsixiehmdehqdrcxdezsuqzdzxbt”

“BmeZecxgdite.mqecgaxecznecxdx?”

“Zsercxekxyybt”

“Zbecxeuqzxr?”

“Mc,ecxe zaxbesmerdmqlyxteLqrecxezbegeizdr.ebkmqsidxyt”

“Izdr.?”

“.xb,ezrezbegyyeoxekgseimermengjxeczneogbceczbecgsib,egsieczbehgkxezb
gbelygkjegbegerzsjxd’bteOxyy,eocxsemskxeczbekgbxecgbelxxsebxrryxi,ecx
ozyyecgaxegedx qygdevdzbmselgrc;egsieZerczsj,ezhe.mqebgoeczn,e.mqeomqyi
g dxxeozrcenxercgrecxesxxixiezrt”

“Zebcmqyieyzjxermebxxeczneaxd.enqkct”

“Omqyie.mq?eRcgrezbexgbzy.eimsxteKmnxerczbeog.te.mqekgseyxgaxe.mqd
lg t”

“Sm,eZerczsjercgreZ’yyergjxezrt”

“Axd.e mmiteKmnxerczbeog.,ezhe.mqevyxgbxt”eCxeyxieqbeimosegevgbbg x,
mvxsxiegelgddxieimmd,evgbbxieimosegeozsizs ebrgzd,egsieldmq creqbermeg
oczrxogbcxiekmddzimdeozrcegeyzsxemheimmdbemsexgkcebzixt

“Rcxerczdiemsercxedz crezbeczb,”ebgziercxezsbvxkrmdte“Cxdxezrezb!”eCx
uqzxry.ebcmrelgkjegevgsxyezsercxeqvvxdevgdremhercxeimmdegsie ygskxi
rcdmq ct

“Cxezbegbyxxv,”ebgziecxte“.mqekgsebxxeczneaxd.eoxyyt”

Oxelmrcevqremqdex.xbermercxe dgrzs teRcxevdzbmsxdeyg.eozrceczbehgkx
rmogdibeqb,ezsegeaxd.eixxvebyxxv,eldxgrczs ebymoy.egsiecxgazy.teCxeogb
genziiyx-bzwxiengs,ekmgdbxy.ekygiegbelxkgnxeczbekgyyzs ,eozrceg
kmymqdxiebczdrevdmrdqizs ercdmq cercxedxsrezseczbergrrxdxiekmgrteCx
ogb,egbercxezsbvxkrmdecgiebgzi,exprdxnxy.eizdr.,elqrercxe dznxeoczkc
kmaxdxieczbehgkxekmqyiesmrekmskxgyezrbedxvqybzaxeq yzsxbbteGeldmgi
ocxgyehdmnegsemyiebkgdedgsedz cregkdmbbezrehdmnex.xermekczs,egsiel.ezrb
kmsrdgkrzmsecgierqdsxieqvemsxebzixemhercxeqvvxdeyzv,ebmercgrercdxx
rxxrceoxdxexpvmbxiezsegevxdvxrqgyebsgdyteGebcmkjemheaxd.eldz credxi
cgzde dxoeymoemaxdeczbex.xbegsiehmdxcxgit

“Cx’begelxgqr.,ezbs’recx?”ebgziercxezsbvxkrmdt

“Cxekxdrgzsy.esxxibegeogbc,”edxngdjxieCmynxbte“Zecgiegsezixgercgrecx
nz cr,egsieZermmjercxeyzlxdr.emheldzs zs ercxermmybeozrcenxt”eCxemvxsxi
rcxe ygibrmsxelg egbecxebvmjx,egsiermmjemqr,ermen.egbrmszbcnxsr,egeaxd.
ygd xelgrc-bvms xt

“Cx!ecx!e.mqegdxegehqss.emsx,”ekcqkjyxiercxezsbvxkrmdt

“Smo,ezhe.mqeozyyecgaxercxe dxgre mmisxbbermemvxsercgreimmdeaxd.
uqzxry.,eoxeozyyebmmsengjxecznekqregenqkcenmdxedxbvxkrglyxehz qdxt”

“Oxyy,eZeims’rejsmoeoc.esmr,”ebgziercxezsbvxkrmdte“Cxeimxbs’reymmjeg
kdxizrermercxeLmoeBrdxxrekxyyb,eimxbecx?”eCxebyzvvxieczbejx.ezsrmercx
ymkj,egsieoxegyyeaxd.euqzxry.exsrxdxiercxekxyyteRcxebyxxvxdecgyh
rqdsxi,egsiercxsebxrryxieimosemskxenmdxezsrmegeixxvebyqnlxdteCmynxb
brmmvxiermercxeogrxd-fq ,enmzbrxsxieczbebvms x,egsiercxsedqllxiezr
rozkxeaz mdmqby.egkdmbbegsieimosercxevdzbmsxd’behgkxt

“Yxrenxezsrdmiqkxe.mq,”ecxebcmqrxi,e“rmeNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd,emheYxx,
zsercxekmqsr.emheJxsrt”

Sxaxdezsen.eyzhxecgaxeZebxxsebqkcegebz crteRcxengs’behgkxevxxyxiemhh
qsixdercxebvms xeyzjxercxelgdjehdmnegerdxxte msxeogbercxekmgdbxeldmos
rzsr!e msx,ermm,eogbercxecmddziebkgdeoczkcecgiebxgnxiezregkdmbb,egsi
rcxerozbrxieyzveoczkcecgie zaxsercxedxvqybzaxebsxxdermercxehgkx!eG
rozrkceldmq cregog.ercxergs yxiedxiecgzd,egsiercxdx,ebzrrzs eqvezseczb
lxi,eogbegevgyx,ebgi-hgkxi,edxhzsxi-ymmjzs engs,elygkj-cgzdxiegsi
bnmmrc-bjzssxi,edqllzs eczbex.xbegsiebrgdzs eglmqreczneozrcebyxxv.
lxozyixdnxsrteRcxsebqiixsy.edxgyzbzs ercxexpvmbqdx,ecxeldmjxezsrmeg
bkdxgnegsiercdxoecznbxyheimoseozrceczbehgkxermercxevzyymot

“ dxgrecxgaxsb!”ekdzxiercxezsbvxkrmd,e“zrezb,ezsixxi,ercxenzbbzs engst
Zejsmoecznehdmnercxevcmrm dgvct”

Rcxevdzbmsxderqdsxieozrcercxedxkjyxbbegzdemhegengseocmeglgsimsbecznbxyh
rmeczbeixbrzs.te“Lxezrebm,”ebgziecxte“Gsievdg.eocgregneZekcgd xieozrc?”

“Ozrcengjzs egog.eozrceNdteSxazyyxeBrt—eMc,ekmnx,e.mqekgs’relxekcgd xi
ozrcercgreqsyxbbercx.engjxegekgbxemhegrrxnvrxiebqzkzixemhezr,”ebgziercx
zsbvxkrmdeozrcege dzste“Oxyy,eZecgaxelxxseroxsr.-bxaxse.xgdbezsercx
hmdkx,elqrerczbedxgyy.ergjxbercxekgjxt”

“ZheZegneNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd,ercxsezrezbemlazmqbercgresmekdznxecgb
lxxsekmnnzrrxi,egsiercgr,ercxdxhmdx,eZegnezyyx gyy.eixrgzsxit”

“Smekdznx,elqregeaxd.e dxgrexddmdecgbelxxsekmnnzrrxi,”ebgzieCmynxbt
“.mqeomqyiecgaxeimsxelxrrxdermecgaxerdqbrxie.mqdeozhxt”

“Zreogbesmrercxeozhx;ezreogbercxekczyidxs,”e dmgsxiercxevdzbmsxdte“ mi
cxyvenx,eZeomqyiesmrecgaxercxnegbcgnxiemhercxzdehgrcxdteN.e mi!eOcgregs
xpvmbqdx!eOcgrekgseZeim?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebgreimoselxbzixecznemsercxekmqkcegsievgrrxiecznejzsiy.
msercxebcmqyixdt

“Zhe.mqeyxgaxezrermegekmqdremheygoermekyxgdercxengrrxdeqv,”ebgziecx,
“mhekmqdbxe.mqekgsecgdiy.egamzievqlyzkzr.teMsercxemrcxdecgsi,ezhe.mq
kmsazskxercxevmyzkxegqrcmdzrzxbercgrercxdxezbesmevmbbzlyxekgbxeg gzsbr
.mq,eZeimesmrejsmoercgrercxdxezbegs.edxgbmsercgrercxeixrgzybebcmqyi
hzsiercxzdeog.ezsrmercxevgvxdbteZsbvxkrmdeLdgibrdxxreomqyi,eZegnebqdx,
ngjxesmrxbeqvmsegs.rczs eoczkce.mqenz crerxyyeqbegsiebqlnzrezrermercx
vdmvxdegqrcmdzrzxbteRcxekgbxeomqyiercxsesxaxde mezsrmekmqdregregyyt”

“ mielyxbbe.mq!”ekdzxiercxevdzbmsxdevgbbzmsgrxy.te“Zeomqyiecgaxexsiqdxi
znvdzbmsnxsr,eg.,exaxsexpxkqrzms,edgrcxdercgsecgaxeyxhren.enzbxdglyx
bxkdxregbegehgnzy.elymrermen.ekczyidxst

“.mqegdxercxehzdbreocmecgaxexaxdecxgdien.ebrmd.teN.ehgrcxdeogbeg
bkcmmyngbrxdezseKcxbrxdhzxyi,eocxdxeZedxkxzaxiegsexpkxyyxsrexiqkgrzmst
Zerdgaxyyxiezsen.e.mqrc,ermmjermercxebrg x,egsiehzsgyy.elxkgnxeg
dxvmdrxdemsegsexaxszs evgvxdezseYmsimsteMsxeig.en.exizrmdeozbcxierm
cgaxegebxdzxbemhegdrzkyxbeqvmselx  zs ezsercxenxrdmvmyzb,egsieZ
amyqsrxxdxiermebqvvy.ercxnteRcxdxeogbercxevmzsrehdmneoczkcegyyen.
giaxsrqdxbebrgdrxiteZreogbemsy.el.erd.zs elx  zs egbegsegngrxqdercgreZ
kmqyie xrercxehgkrbeqvmseoczkcermelgbxen.egdrzkyxbteOcxsegsegkrmdeZ
cgi,emhekmqdbx,eyxgdsxiegyyercxebxkdxrbemhengjzs eqv,egsiecgielxxs
hgnmqbezsercxe dxxs-dmmnehmden.ebjzyyteZermmjegiagsrg xesmoemhen.
grrgzsnxsrbteZevgzsrxien.ehgkx,egsiermengjxen.bxyhegbevzrzglyxegb
vmbbzlyxeZengixege mmiebkgdegsiehzpxiemsxebzixemhen.eyzvezsegerozbrel.
rcxegziemhegebngyyebyzvemhehyxbc-kmymqdxievygbrxdteRcxseozrcegedxiecxgi
mhecgzd,egsiegsegvvdmvdzgrxeidxbb,eZermmjen.ebrgrzmsezsercxelqbzsxbb
vgdremhercxekzr.,embrxsbzly.egbegengrkc-bxyyxdelqredxgyy.egbegelx  gdt
HmdebxaxsecmqdbeZevyzxien.erdgix,egsieocxseZedxrqdsxiecmnxezsercx
xaxszs eZehmqsiermen.ebqdvdzbxercgreZecgiedxkxzaxiesmeyxbbercgse26_b_t
4_i_t

“Zeodmrxen.egdrzkyxbegsiercmq creyzrryxenmdxemhercxengrrxdeqsrzy,ebmnx
rznxeygrxd,eZelgkjxiegelzyyehmdegehdzxsiegsiecgiegeodzrebxdaxieqvmsenx
hmde£e25teZeogbegren.eozr’bexsieocxdxerme xrercxenmsx.,elqregebqiixs
zixgekgnxermenxteZelx  xiegehmdrsz cr’be dgkxehdmnercxekdxizrmd,egbjxi
hmdegecmyzig.ehdmnen.exnvym.xdb,egsiebvxsrercxerznxezselx  zs ezsercx
Kzr.eqsixden.eizb qzbxteZserxseig.beZecgiercxenmsx.egsiecgievgziercx
ixlrt

“Oxyy,e.mqekgsezng zsxecmoecgdiezreogbermebxrryxeimosermegdiqmqbeomdj
gre£e2egeoxxjeocxseZejsxoercgreZekmqyiexgdsegbenqkcezsegeig.el.
bnxgdzs en.ehgkxeozrcegeyzrryxevgzsr,eyg.zs en.ekgvemsercxe dmqsi,egsi
bzrrzs ebrzyyteZreogbegeyms ehz crelxroxxsen.evdzixegsiercxenmsx.,elqr
rcxeimyygdbeomsegreygbr,egsieZercdxoeqvedxvmdrzs egsiebgreig.eghrxdeig.
zsercxekmdsxdeoczkceZecgiehzdbrekcmbxs,ezsbvzdzs evzr.el.en.e cgbry.
hgkxegsiehzyyzs en.evmkjxrbeozrcekmvvxdbteMsy.emsxengsejsxoen.ebxkdxrt
CxeogbercxejxxvxdemhegeymoeixsezseoczkceZeqbxiermeymi xezseBogsign
Ygsx,eocxdxeZekmqyiexaxd.enmdszs exnxd xegbegebuqgyzielx  gdegsiezsercx
xaxszs berdgsbhmdnen.bxyhezsrmegeoxyy-idxbbxiengseglmqrermosteRczb
hxyymo,egeYgbkgd,eogbeoxyyevgziel.enxehmdeczbedmmnb,ebmercgreZejsxo
rcgren.ebxkdxreogbebghxezseczbevmbbxbbzmst

“Oxyy,eaxd.ebmmseZehmqsiercgreZeogbebgazs ekmsbzixdglyxebqnbemhenmsx.t
Zeimesmrenxgsercgregs.elx  gdezsercxebrdxxrbemheYmsimsekmqyiexgdse£e700
ge.xgd—oczkcezbeyxbbercgsen.egaxdg xergjzs b—lqreZecgiexpkxvrzmsgy
giagsrg xbezsen.evmoxdemhengjzs eqv,egsiegybmezsegehgkzyzr.emh
dxvgdrxx,eoczkceznvdmaxiel.evdgkrzkxegsiengixenxeuqzrxegedxkm szbxi
kcgdgkrxdezsercxeKzr.teGyyeig.egebrdxgnemhevxsszxb,eagdzxiel.ebzyaxd,
vmqdxiezseqvmsenx,egsiezreogbegeaxd.elgieig.ezseoczkceZehgzyxiermergjx
£e2t

“GbeZe dxoedzkcxdeZe dxoenmdxegnlzrzmqb,ermmjegecmqbxezsercxekmqsrd.,
gsiexaxsrqgyy.engddzxi,eozrcmqregs.msxecgazs egebqbvzkzmsegbermen.edxgy
mkkqvgrzmsteN.eixgdeozhxejsxoercgreZecgielqbzsxbbezsercxeKzr.teBcx
yzrryxejsxoeocgrt

“YgbreNmsig.eZecgiehzszbcxiehmdercxeig.egsieogbeidxbbzs ezsen.edmmn
glmaxercxemvzqneixseocxseZeymmjxiemqremhen.eozsimoegsiebgo,ermen.
cmddmdegsiegbrmszbcnxsr,ercgren.eozhxeogbebrgsizs ezsercxebrdxxr,eozrc
cxdex.xbehzpxiehqyyeqvmsenxteZe gaxegekd.emhebqdvdzbx,ercdxoeqven.egdnb
rmekmaxden.ehgkx,egsi,edqbczs ermen.ekmshzigsr,ercxeYgbkgd,exsrdxgrxi
cznermevdxaxsregs.msxehdmnekmnzs eqvermenxteZecxgdiecxdeamzkx
imosbrgzdb,elqreZejsxoercgrebcxekmqyiesmregbkxsiteBozhry.eZercdxoemhh
n.ekymrcxb,evqyyxiemsercmbxemhegelx  gd,egsievqremsen.evz nxsrbegsi
oz teXaxsegeozhx’bex.xbekmqyiesmrevzxdkxebmekmnvyxrxegeizb qzbxteLqr
rcxsezremkkqddxiermenxercgrercxdxenz crelxegebxgdkcezsercxedmmn,egsi
rcgrercxekymrcxbenz crelxrdg.enxteZercdxoemvxsercxeozsimo,edxmvxszs el.
n.eazmyxskxegebngyyekqreoczkceZecgiezshyzkrxieqvmsen.bxyhezsercx
lxidmmnercgrenmdszs teRcxseZebxzwxien.ekmgr,eoczkceogbeoxz crxiel.ercx
kmvvxdbeoczkceZecgiefqbrerdgsbhxddxiermezrehdmnercxeyxgrcxdelg ezs
oczkceZekgddzxien.ergjzs bteZecqdyxiezremqremhercxeozsimo,egsiezr
izbgvvxgdxiezsrmercxeRcgnxbteRcxemrcxdekymrcxbeomqyiecgaxehmyymoxi,elqr
grercgrenmnxsrercxdxeogbegedqbcemhekmsbrglyxbeqvercxebrgzd,egsiegehxo
nzsqrxbeghrxdeZehmqsi,edgrcxd,eZekmshxbb,ermen.edxyzxh,ercgrezsbrxgiemh
lxzs ezixsrzhzxiegbeNdteSxazyyxeBrteKygzd,eZeogbegddxbrxiegbeczb
nqdixdxdt

“Zeimesmrejsmoercgrercxdxezbegs.rczs exybxehmdenxermexpvygzsteZeogb
ixrxdnzsxiermevdxbxdaxen.eizb qzbxegbeyms egbevmbbzlyx,egsiecxskxen.
vdxhxdxskxehmdegeizdr.ehgkxteJsmozs ercgren.eozhxeomqyielxerxddzly.
gspzmqb,eZebyzvvxiemhhen.edzs egsiekmshzixiezrermercxeYgbkgdegreg
nmnxsreocxsesmekmsbrglyxeogbeogrkczs enx,erm xrcxdeozrcegecqddzxi
bkdgoy,erxyyzs ecxdercgrebcxecgiesmekgqbxermehxgdt”

“Rcgresmrxemsy.edxgkcxiecxde.xbrxdig.,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“ mmie mi!eOcgregeoxxjebcxenqbrecgaxebvxsr!”

“RcxevmyzkxecgaxeogrkcxierczbeYgbkgd,”ebgzieZsbvxkrmdeLdgibrdxxr,e“gsi
Zekgseuqzrxeqsixdbrgsiercgrecxenz crehzsiezreizhhzkqyrermevmbregeyxrrxd
qsmlbxdaxiteVdmlgly.ecxecgsixiezrermebmnxebgzymdekqbrmnxdemheczb,eocm
hmd mregyyeglmqrezrehmdebmnxeig.bt”

“Rcgreogbezr,”ebgzieCmynxb,esmiizs egvvdmazs y.;e“Zecgaxesmeimqlremh
zrteLqrecgaxe.mqesxaxdelxxsevdmbxkqrxiehmdelx  zs ?”

“Ngs.erznxb;elqreocgreogbegehzsxermenx?”

“Zrenqbrebrmvecxdx,ecmoxaxd,”ebgzieLdgibrdxxrte“Zhercxevmyzkxegdxerm
cqbcerczberczs eqv,ercxdxenqbrelxesmenmdxemheCq ceLmmsxt”

“Zecgaxebomdsezrel.ercxenmbrebmyxnsemgrcbeoczkcegengsekgsergjxt”

“ZsercgrekgbxeZerczsjercgrezrezbevdmlglyxercgresmehqdrcxdebrxvbeng.elx
rgjxsteLqrezhe.mqegdxehmqsieg gzs,ercxsegyyenqbrekmnxemqrteZegnebqdx,
NdteCmynxb,ercgreoxegdxeaxd.enqkcezsixlrxierme.mqehmdecgazs ekyxgdxi
rcxengrrxdeqvteZeozbceZejsxoecmoe.mqedxgkce.mqdedxbqyrbt”

“Zedxgkcxierczbemsx,”ebgzien.ehdzxsi,e“l.ebzrrzs eqvmsehzaxevzyymobegsi
kmsbqnzs egsemqskxemhebcg teZerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgrezheoxeidzaxermeLgjxd
Brdxxreoxebcgyyefqbrelxezserznxehmdeldxgjhgbrt”



AZZteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeLYQXeKGDLQSKYX

Zecgiekgyyxieqvmsen.ehdzxsieBcxdymkjeCmynxbeqvmsercxebxkmsienmdszs 
ghrxdeKcdzbrngb,eozrcercxezsrxsrzmsemheozbczs ecznercxekmnvyznxsrbemh
rcxebxgbmsteCxeogbeymqs zs eqvmsercxebmhgezsegevqdvyxeidxbbzs - mos,eg
vzvx-dgkjeozrczseczbedxgkceqvmsercxedz cr,egsiegevzyxemhekdqnvyxi
nmdszs evgvxdb,exazixsry.esxoy.ebrqizxi,esxgdegrecgsiteLxbzixercxekmqkc
ogbegeommixsekcgzd,egsiemsercxegs yxemhercxelgkjecqs egeaxd.ebxxi.egsi
izbdxvqrglyxecgdi-hxyrecgr,enqkcercxeomdbxehmdeoxgd,egsiekdgkjxiezs
bxaxdgyevygkxbteGeyxsbegsiegehmdkxvbey.zs eqvmsercxebxgremhercxekcgzd
bq  xbrxiercgrercxecgrecgielxxsebqbvxsixiezserczbengssxdehmdercx
vqdvmbxemhexpgnzsgrzmst

“.mqegdxexs g xi,”ebgzieZ;e“vxdcgvbeZezsrxddqvre.mqt”

“SmregregyyteZegne ygiermecgaxegehdzxsieozrceocmneZekgseizbkqbben.
dxbqyrbteRcxengrrxdezbegevxdhxkry.erdzazgyemsx”—cxefxdjxieczbercqnlezs
rcxeizdxkrzmsemhercxemyiecgr—“lqrercxdxegdxevmzsrbezsekmssxkrzmseozrc
zreoczkcegdxesmrexsrzdxy.eixamziemhezsrxdxbregsiexaxsemhezsbrdqkrzmst”

Zebxgrxien.bxyhezseczbegdnkcgzdegsieogdnxien.ecgsibelxhmdxeczb
kdgkjyzs ehzdx,ehmdegebcgdvehdmbrecgiebxrezs,egsiercxeozsimobeoxdx
rczkjeozrcercxezkxekd.brgybte“Zebqvvmbx,”eZedxngdjxi,e“rcgr,ecmnxy.egb
zreymmjb,erczberczs ecgbebmnxeixgiy.ebrmd.eyzsjxiemsermezr—rcgrezrezb
rcxekyqxeoczkceozyye qzixe.mqezsercxebmyqrzmsemhebmnxen.brxd.egsiercx
vqszbcnxsremhebmnxekdznxt”

“Sm,esmteSmekdznx,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,eygq czs te“Msy.emsxemhercmbx
ocznbzkgyeyzrryxezskzixsrbeoczkceozyyecgvvxseocxse.mqecgaxehmqdenzyyzms
cqngselxzs begyyefmbryzs exgkcemrcxdeozrczsercxebvgkxemhegehxoebuqgdx
nzyxbteGnziercxegkrzmsegsiedxgkrzmsemhebmeixsbxegebogdnemhecqngszr.,
xaxd.evmbbzlyxekmnlzsgrzmsemhexaxsrbeng.elxexpvxkrxiermergjxevygkx,egsi
ngs.egeyzrryxevdmlyxneozyyelxevdxbxsrxieoczkceng.elxebrdzjzs egsi
lzwgddxeozrcmqrelxzs ekdznzsgyteOxecgaxegydxgi.ecgiexpvxdzxskxemh
bqkct”

“Bmenqkcebm,”eZedxngdjxi,e“rcgremhercxeygbrebzpekgbxbeoczkceZecgax
giixiermen.esmrxb,ercdxxecgaxelxxsexsrzdxy.ehdxxemhegs.eyx gyekdznxt”

“Vdxkzbxy.te.mqegyyqixermen.egrrxnvrermedxkmaxdercxeZdxsxeGiyxdevgvxdb,
rmercxebzs qygdekgbxemheNzbbeNgd.eBqrcxdygsi,egsiermercxegiaxsrqdxemh
rcxengseozrcercxerozbrxieyzvteOxyy,eZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrerczbebngyy
ngrrxdeozyyehgyyezsrmercxebgnxezssmkxsrekgrx md.te.mqejsmoeVxrxdbms,
rcxekmnnzbbzmsgzdx?”

“.xbt”

“Zrezbermecznercgrerczberdmvc.elxyms bt”

“Zrezbeczbecgrt”

“Sm,esm,ecxehmqsiezrteZrbemosxdezbeqsjsmosteZelx ercgre.mqeozyyeymmj
qvmsezresmregbegelgrrxdxielzyy.kmkjelqregbegsezsrxyyxkrqgyevdmlyxnt
Gsi,ehzdbr,egbermecmoezrekgnxecxdxteZregddzaxieqvmseKcdzbrngbenmdszs ,
zsekmnvgs.eozrcege mmiehgre mmbx,eoczkcezb,eZecgaxesmeimqlr,edmgbrzs 
grerczbenmnxsrezsehdmsremheVxrxdbms’behzdxteRcxehgkrbegdxercxbx:eglmqr
hmqdem’kymkjemseKcdzbrngbenmdszs ,eVxrxdbms,eocm,egbe.mqejsmo,ezbeg
axd.ecmsxbrehxyymo,eogbedxrqdszs ehdmnebmnxebngyyefmyyzhzkgrzmsegsieogb
ngjzs eczbeog.ecmnxogdieimoseRmrrxscgneKmqdreDmgiteZsehdmsremhecznecx
bgo,ezsercxe gbyz cr,egergyyzbcengs,eogyjzs eozrcegebyz crebrg  xd,egsi
kgdd.zs egeoczrxe mmbxebyqs emaxdeczbebcmqyixdteGbecxedxgkcxiercx
kmdsxdemhe mmi xeBrdxxr,egedmoeldmjxemqrelxroxxserczbebrdgs xdegsieg
yzrryxejsmremhedmq cbteMsxemhercxeygrrxdejsmkjxiemhhercxengs’becgr,ems
oczkcecxedgzbxieczbebrzkjermeixhxsiecznbxyhegsi,ebozs zs ezremaxdeczb
cxgi,ebngbcxiercxebcmveozsimoelxczsiecznteVxrxdbmsecgiedqbcxiehmdogdi
rmevdmrxkrercxebrdgs xdehdmneczbegbbgzygsrb;elqrercxengs,ebcmkjxiegr
cgazs eldmjxsercxeozsimo,egsiebxxzs egsemhhzkzgy-ymmjzs evxdbmsezs
qszhmdnedqbczs ermogdibeczn,eidmvvxieczbe mmbx,ermmjermeczbecxxyb,egsi
agszbcxiegnziercxeygl.dzsrcemhebngyyebrdxxrbeoczkceyzxegrercxelgkjemh
RmrrxscgneKmqdreDmgiteRcxedmq cbecgiegybmehyxiegrercxegvvxgdgskxemh
Vxrxdbms,ebmercgrecxeogbeyxhrezsevmbbxbbzmsemhercxehzxyiemhelgrryx,egsi
gybmemhercxebvmzybemheazkrmd.ezsercxebcgvxemherczbelgrrxdxiecgregsieg
nmbreqsznvxgkcglyxeKcdzbrngbe mmbxt”

“Oczkcebqdxy.ecxedxbrmdxiermercxzdemosxd?”

“N.eixgdehxyymo,ercxdxeyzxbercxevdmlyxnteZrezberdqxercgre‘HmdeNdbt
Cxsd.eLgjxd’eogbevdzsrxieqvmsegebngyyekgdieoczkceogberzxiermercxelzdi’b
yxhreyx ,egsiezrezbegybmerdqxercgrercxezszrzgybe‘CteLt’egdxeyx zlyx
qvmsercxeyzszs emherczbecgr,elqregbercxdxegdxebmnxercmqbgsibemheLgjxdb,
gsiebmnxecqsidxibemheCxsd.eLgjxdbezserczbekzr.emhemqdb,ezrezbesmrexgb.
rmedxbrmdxeymbrevdmvxdr.ermegs.emsxemhercxnt”

“Ocgr,ercxs,eizieVxrxdbmseim?”

“Cxeldmq credmqsielmrcecgregsie mmbxermenxemseKcdzbrngbenmdszs ,
jsmozs ercgrexaxsercxebngyyxbrevdmlyxnbegdxemhezsrxdxbrermenxteRcx
 mmbxeoxedxrgzsxieqsrzyerczbenmdszs ,eocxsercxdxeoxdxebz sbercgr,ezs
bvzrxemhercxebyz crehdmbr,ezreomqyielxeoxyyercgrezrebcmqyielxexgrxs
ozrcmqreqssxkxbbgd.eixyg.teZrbehzsixdecgbekgddzxiezremhh,ercxdxhmdx,erm
hqyhzyercxeqyrzngrxeixbrzs.emhege mmbx,eoczyxeZekmsrzsqxermedxrgzsercx
cgremhercxeqsjsmose xsryxngseocmeymbreczbeKcdzbrngbeizssxdt”

“Iziecxesmregiaxdrzbx?”

“Smt”

“Rcxs,eocgrekyqxekmqyie.mqecgaxegbermeczbezixsrzr.?”

“Msy.egbenqkcegbeoxekgseixiqkxt”

“Hdmneczbecgr?”

“Vdxkzbxy.t”

“Lqre.mqegdxefmjzs teOcgrekgse.mqe grcxdehdmnerczbemyielgrrxdxiehxyr?”

“Cxdxezben.eyxsbte.mqejsmoen.enxrcmibteOcgrekgse.mqe grcxde.mqdbxyhegb
rmercxezsizaziqgyzr.emhercxengseocmecgbeomdserczbegdrzkyx?”

Zermmjercxergrrxdxiemlfxkrezsen.ecgsibegsierqdsxiezremaxdedgrcxd
dqxhqyy.teZreogbegeaxd.emdizsgd.elygkjecgremhercxeqbqgyedmqsiebcgvx,
cgdiegsienqkcercxeomdbxehmdeoxgdteRcxeyzszs ecgielxxsemhedxiebzyj,elqr
ogbege mmieixgyeizbkmymqdxiteRcxdxeogbesmengjxd’besgnx;elqr,egbeCmynxb
cgiedxngdjxi,ercxezszrzgybe“CteLt”eoxdxebkdgoyxieqvmsemsxebzixteZreogb
vzxdkxiezsercxeldznehmdegecgr-bxkqdxd,elqrercxexygbrzkeogbenzbbzs teHmd
rcxedxbr,ezreogbekdgkjxi,expkxxizs y.eiqbr.,egsiebvmrrxiezsebxaxdgy
vygkxb,egyrcmq cercxdxebxxnxiermecgaxelxxsebmnxegrrxnvrermeczixercx
izbkmymqdxievgrkcxbel.ebnxgdzs ercxneozrcezsjt

“Zekgsebxxesmrczs ,”ebgzieZ,ecgsizs ezrelgkjermen.ehdzxsit

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,eOgrbms,e.mqekgsebxxexaxd.rczs te.mqehgzy,ecmoxaxd,erm
dxgbmsehdmneocgre.mqebxxte.mqegdxermmerznziezseidgozs e.mqd
zshxdxskxbt”

“Rcxs,evdg.erxyyenxeocgrezrezbercgre.mqekgsezshxdehdmnerczbecgr?”

Cxevzkjxiezreqvegsie gwxiegrezrezsercxevxkqyzgdezsrdmbvxkrzaxehgbczms
oczkceogbekcgdgkrxdzbrzkemhecznte“Zrezbevxdcgvbeyxbbebq  xbrzaxercgsezr
nz crecgaxelxxs,”ecxedxngdjxi,e“gsie.xrercxdxegdxegehxoezshxdxskxb
oczkcegdxeaxd.eizbrzskr,egsiegehxoemrcxdbeoczkcedxvdxbxsregreyxgbreg
brdms elgygskxemhevdmlglzyzr.teRcgrercxengseogbecz cy.ezsrxyyxkrqgyezb
mhekmqdbxemlazmqbeqvmsercxehgkxemhezr,egsiegybmercgrecxeogbehgzdy.
oxyy-rm-imeozrczsercxeygbrercdxxe.xgdb,egyrcmq cecxecgbesmoehgyyxseqvms
xazyeig.bteCxecgiehmdxbz cr,elqrecgbeyxbbesmoercgsehmdnxdy.,evmzsrzs 
rmegenmdgyedxrdm dxbbzms,eoczkc,eocxsergjxseozrcercxeixkyzsxemheczb
hmdrqsxb,ebxxnbermezsizkgrxebmnxexazyezshyqxskx,evdmlgly.eidzsj,egr
omdjeqvmsecznteRczbeng.egkkmqsregybmehmdercxemlazmqbehgkrercgreczbeozhx
cgbekxgbxiermeymaxecznt”

“N.eixgdeCmynxb!”

“Cxecgb,ecmoxaxd,edxrgzsxiebmnxeix dxxemhebxyh-dxbvxkr,”ecxekmsrzsqxi,
izbdx gdizs en.edxnmsbrdgskxte“Cxezbegengseocmeyxgibegebxixsrgd.eyzhx,
 mxbemqreyzrryx,ezbemqremherdgzszs exsrzdxy.,ezbenziiyx-g xi,ecgb
 dzwwyxiecgzdeoczkcecxecgbecgiekqreozrczsercxeygbrehxoeig.b,egsieoczkc
cxegsmzsrbeozrceyznx-kdxgnteRcxbxegdxercxenmdxevgrxsrehgkrbeoczkcegdx
rmelxeixiqkxiehdmneczbecgrteGybm,el.ercxeog.,ercgrezrezbexprdxnxy.
znvdmlglyxercgrecxecgbe gbeygziemsezseczbecmqbxt”

“.mqegdxekxdrgzsy.efmjzs ,eCmynxbt”

“SmrezsercxeyxgbrteZbezrevmbbzlyxercgrexaxsesmo,eocxseZe zaxe.mqercxbx
dxbqyrb,e.mqegdxeqsglyxermebxxecmoercx.egdxegrrgzsxi?”

“ZecgaxesmeimqlrercgreZegneaxd.ebrqvzi,elqreZenqbrekmshxbbercgreZegn
qsglyxermehmyymoe.mqteHmdexpgnvyx,ecmoeizie.mqeixiqkxercgrerczbengseogb
zsrxyyxkrqgy?”

HmdegsboxdeCmynxbekygvvxiercxecgreqvmseczbecxgiteZrekgnxedz cremaxdercx
hmdxcxgiegsiebxrryxieqvmsercxeldzi xemheczbesmbxte“Zrezbegeuqxbrzmsemh
kqlzkekgvgkzr.,”ebgziecx;e“gengseozrcebmeygd xegeldgzsenqbrecgax
bmnxrczs ezsezrt”

“Rcxeixkyzsxemheczbehmdrqsxb,ercxs?”

“Rczbecgrezbercdxxe.xgdbemyiteRcxbxehygreldznbekqdyxiegrercxexi xekgnx
zsercxsteZrezbegecgremhercxeaxd.elxbreuqgyzr.teYmmjegrercxelgsiemh
dzllxiebzyjegsiercxexpkxyyxsreyzszs teZherczbengsekmqyieghhmdiermelq.
bmexpvxsbzaxegecgrercdxxe.xgdbeg m,egsiecgbecgiesmecgrebzskx,ercxsecx
cgbegbbqdxiy.e msxeimosezsercxeomdyit”

“Oxyy,ercgrezbekyxgdexsmq c,ekxdrgzsy.teLqrecmoeglmqrercxehmdxbz cregsi
rcxenmdgyedxrdm dxbbzms?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeygq cxite“Cxdxezbercxehmdxbz cr,”ebgziecxevqrrzs eczb
hzs xdeqvmsercxeyzrryxeizbkegsieymmvemhercxecgr-bxkqdxdte“Rcx.egdx
sxaxdebmyieqvmsecgrbteZherczbengsemdixdxiemsx,ezrezbegebz semheg
kxdrgzsegnmqsremhehmdxbz cr,ebzskxecxeoxsremqremheczbeog.ermergjxerczb
vdxkgqrzmseg gzsbrercxeozsiteLqrebzskxeoxebxxercgrecxecgbeldmjxsercx
xygbrzkegsiecgbesmrerdmqlyxiermedxvygkxezr,ezrezbemlazmqbercgrecxecgb
yxbbehmdxbz cresmoercgsehmdnxdy.,eoczkcezbegeizbrzskrevdmmhemheg
oxgjxszs esgrqdxteMsercxemrcxdecgsi,ecxecgbexsixgamqdxiermekmskxgyebmnx
mhercxbxebrgzsbeqvmsercxehxyrel.eigqlzs ercxneozrcezsj,eoczkcezbegebz s
rcgrecxecgbesmrexsrzdxy.eymbreczbebxyh-dxbvxkrt”

“.mqdedxgbmszs ezbekxdrgzsy.evygqbzlyxt”

“Rcxehqdrcxdevmzsrb,ercgrecxezbenziiyx-g xi,ercgreczbecgzdezbe dzwwyxi,
rcgrezrecgbelxxsedxkxsry.ekqr,egsiercgrecxeqbxbeyznx-kdxgn,egdxegyyerm
lxe grcxdxiehdmnegekymbxexpgnzsgrzmsemhercxeymoxdevgdremhercxeyzszs t
Rcxeyxsbeizbkymbxbegeygd xesqnlxdemhecgzd-xsib,ekyxgsekqrel.ercx
bkzbbmdbemhercxelgdlxdteRcx.egyyegvvxgdermelxegicxbzax,egsiercxdxezbeg
izbrzskremimqdemheyznx-kdxgnteRczbeiqbr,e.mqeozyyemlbxdax,ezbesmrercx
 dzrr.,e dx.eiqbremhercxebrdxxrelqrercxehyqhh.eldmoseiqbremhercxecmqbx,
bcmozs ercgrezrecgbelxxsecqs eqvezsimmdbenmbremhercxerznx,eoczyxercx
ngdjbemhenmzbrqdxeqvmsercxezsbzixegdxevdmmhevmbzrzaxercgrercxeoxgdxd
vxdbvzdxieaxd.ehdxxy.,egsiekmqyiercxdxhmdx,ecgdiy.elxezsercxelxbremh
rdgzszs t”

“Lqreczbeozhx—.mqebgziercgrebcxecgiekxgbxiermeymaxecznt”

“RczbecgrecgbesmrelxxseldqbcxiehmdeoxxjbteOcxseZebxxe.mq,en.eixgd
Ogrbms,eozrcegeoxxj’begkkqnqygrzmsemheiqbreqvmse.mqdecgr,egsieocxse.mqd
ozhxegyymobe.mqerme memqrezsebqkcegebrgrx,eZebcgyyehxgdercgre.mqegybm
cgaxelxxseqshmdrqsgrxexsmq cermeymbxe.mqdeozhx’beghhxkrzmst”

“Lqrecxenz crelxegelgkcxymdt”

“Sg.,ecxeogbeldzs zs ecmnxercxe mmbxegbegevxgkx-mhhxdzs ermeczbeozhxt
Dxnxnlxdercxekgdieqvmsercxelzdi’beyx t”

“.mqecgaxegsegsboxdermexaxd.rczs teLqrecmoemsexgdrceime.mqeixiqkxercgr
rcxe gbezbesmreygziemsezseczbecmqbx?”

“Msxergyymoebrgzs,emdexaxserom,enz crekmnxel.ekcgskx;elqreocxseZebxxesm
yxbbercgsehzax,eZerczsjercgrercxdxekgselxeyzrryxeimqlrercgrercx
zsizaziqgyenqbrelxeldmq crezsrmehdxuqxsrekmsrgkreozrcelqdszs 
rgyymo—ogyjbeqvbrgzdbegresz crevdmlgly.eozrceczbecgrezsemsxecgsiegsieg
 qrrxdzs ekgsiyxezsercxemrcxdteGs.cmo,ecxesxaxde mrergyymo-brgzsbehdmn
ge gb-fxrteGdxe.mqebgrzbhzxi?”

“Oxyy,ezrezbeaxd.ezs xszmqb,”ebgzieZ,eygq czs ;e“lqrebzskx,egbe.mqebgzi
fqbresmo,ercxdxecgbelxxsesmekdznxekmnnzrrxi,egsiesmecgdneimsxebgaxercx
ymbbemhege mmbx,egyyerczbebxxnbermelxedgrcxdegeogbrxemhexsxd .t”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbecgiemvxsxieczbenmqrcermedxvy.,eocxsercxeimmdehyxoemvxs,
gsieVxrxdbms,ercxekmnnzbbzmsgzdx,edqbcxiezsrmercxegvgdrnxsreozrc
hyqbcxiekcxxjbegsiercxehgkxemhegengseocmezbeigwxieozrcegbrmszbcnxsrt

“Rcxe mmbx,eNdteCmynxb!eRcxe mmbx,ebzd!”ecxe gbvxit

“Xc?eOcgremhezr,ercxs?eCgbezredxrqdsxiermeyzhxegsiehygvvxiemhhercdmq c
rcxejzrkcxseozsimo?”eCmynxberozbrxiecznbxyhedmqsieqvmsercxebmhgerme xr
gehgzdxdeazxoemhercxengs’bexpkzrxiehgkxt

“Bxxecxdx,ebzd!eBxxeocgren.eozhxehmqsiezsezrbekdmv!”eCxecxyiemqreczb
cgsiegsieizbvyg.xieqvmsercxekxsrdxemhercxevgynegeldzyyzgsry.
bkzsrzyygrzs elyqxebrmsx,edgrcxdebngyyxdercgsegelxgsezsebzwx,elqremh
bqkcevqdzr.egsiedgizgskxercgrezrerozsjyxieyzjxegsexyxkrdzkevmzsrezsercx
igdjecmyymoemheczbecgsit

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebgreqveozrcegeoczbryxte“L.eFmax,eVxrxdbms!”ebgziecx,
“rczbezberdxgbqdxerdmaxezsixxiteZebqvvmbxe.mqejsmoeocgre.mqecgaxe mr?”

“Geizgnmsi,ebzd?eGevdxkzmqbebrmsxteZrekqrbezsrme ygbbegbercmq cezreoxdx
vqrr.t”

“Zr’benmdxercgsegevdxkzmqbebrmsxteZrezbe_rcx_evdxkzmqbebrmsxt”

“SmrercxeKmqsrxbbemheNmdkgd’belyqxekgdlqskyx!”eZexfgkqygrxit

“Vdxkzbxy.ebmteZemq crermejsmoezrbebzwxegsiebcgvx,ebxxzs ercgreZecgax
dxgiercxegiaxdrzbxnxsreglmqrezrezse_RcxeRznxb_exaxd.eig.eygrxy.teZrezb
glbmyqrxy.eqszuqx,egsiezrbeagyqxekgsemsy.elxekmsfxkrqdxi,elqrercx
dxogdiemhhxdxiemhe£e1000ezbekxdrgzsy.esmreozrczsegeroxsrzxrcevgdremh
rcxengdjxrevdzkxt”

“Gercmqbgsievmqsib!e dxgreYmdiemhenxdk.!”eRcxekmnnzbbzmsgzdxevyqnvxi
imosezsrmegekcgzdegsiebrgdxiehdmnemsxermercxemrcxdemheqbt

“Rcgrezbercxedxogdi,egsieZecgaxedxgbmsermejsmoercgrercxdxegdx
bxsrznxsrgyekmsbzixdgrzmsbezsercxelgkj dmqsieoczkceomqyiezsiqkxercx
Kmqsrxbbermevgdreozrcecgyhecxdehmdrqsxezhebcxekmqyielqredxkmaxdercx
 xnt”

“Zreogbeymbr,ezheZedxnxnlxdegdz cr,egrercxeCmrxyeKmbnmvmyzrgs,”eZ
dxngdjxit

“Vdxkzbxy.ebm,emseIxkxnlxde22si,efqbrehzaxeig.beg mteFmcseCmdsxd,eg
vyqnlxd,eogbegkkqbxiemhecgazs eglbrdgkrxiezrehdmnercxeygi.’b
fxoxy-kgbxteRcxexazixskxeg gzsbreczneogbebmebrdms ercgrercxekgbxecgb
lxxsedxhxddxiermercxeGbbzwxbteZecgaxebmnxegkkmqsremhercxengrrxdecxdx,eZ
lxyzxaxt”eCxedqnng xiegnzieczbesxobvgvxdb,e ygskzs emaxdercxeigrxb,
qsrzyegreygbrecxebnmmrcxiemsxemqr,eimqlyxiezremaxd,egsiedxgiercx
hmyymozs evgdg dgvc:

“CmrxyeKmbnmvmyzrgseFxoxyeDmllxd.teFmcseCmdsxd,e26,evyqnlxd,eogb
ldmq creqveqvmsercxekcgd xemhecgazs eqvmsercxe22siezsbrt,eglbrdgkrxi
hdmnercxefxoxy-kgbxemhercxeKmqsrxbbemheNmdkgdercxeagyqglyxe xnejsmosegb
rcxelyqxekgdlqskyxteFgnxbeD.ixd,eqvvxd-grrxsigsregrercxecmrxy,e gaxeczb
xazixskxermercxexhhxkrercgrecxecgiebcmoseCmdsxdeqvermercxeidxbbzs -dmmn
mhercxeKmqsrxbbemheNmdkgdeqvmsercxeig.emhercxedmllxd.ezsemdixdercgrecx
nz crebmyixdercxebxkmsielgdemhercxe dgrx,eoczkceogbeymmbxteCxecgi
dxngzsxieozrceCmdsxdebmnxeyzrryxerznx,elqrecgiehzsgyy.elxxsekgyyxi
gog.teMsedxrqdszs ,ecxehmqsiercgreCmdsxdecgieizbgvvxgdxi,ercgrercx
lqdxgqecgielxxsehmdkxiemvxs,egsiercgrercxebngyyenmdmkkmekgbjxrezs
oczkc,egbezreghrxdogdiberdgsbvzdxi,ercxeKmqsrxbbeogbegkkqbrmnxiermejxxv
cxdefxoxy,eogbey.zs exnvr.eqvmsercxeidxbbzs -rglyxteD.ixdezsbrgsry.
 gaxercxegygdn,egsieCmdsxdeogbegddxbrxiercxebgnxexaxszs ;elqrercxebrmsx
kmqyiesmrelxehmqsiexzrcxdeqvmseczbevxdbmsemdezseczbedmmnbteKgrcxdzsx
Kqbgkj,engziermercxeKmqsrxbb,eixvmbxiermecgazs ecxgdieD.ixd’bekd.emh
izbng.emseizbkmaxdzs ercxedmllxd.,egsiermecgazs edqbcxiezsrmercxedmmn,
ocxdxebcxehmqsiengrrxdbegbeixbkdzlxiel.ercxeygbreozrsxbbteZsbvxkrmd
Ldgibrdxxr,eLeizazbzms,e gaxexazixskxegbermercxegddxbremheCmdsxd,eocm
brdq  yxiehdgsrzkgyy.,egsievdmrxbrxieczbezssmkxskxezsercxebrdms xbr
rxdnbteXazixskxemhegevdxazmqbekmsazkrzmsehmdedmllxd.ecgazs elxxse zaxs
g gzsbrercxevdzbmsxd,ercxeng zbrdgrxedxhqbxiermeixgyebqnngdzy.eozrcercx
mhhxskx,elqredxhxddxiezrermercxeGbbzwxbteCmdsxd,eocmecgiebcmosebz sbemh
zsrxsbxexnmrzmseiqdzs ercxevdmkxxizs b,ehgzsrxiegog.egrercxekmskyqbzms
gsieogbekgddzxiemqremhekmqdrt”

“Cqn!eBmenqkcehmdercxevmyzkx-kmqdr,”ebgzieCmynxbercmq crhqyy.,ermbbzs 
gbzixercxevgvxdte“Rcxeuqxbrzmsehmdeqbesmoermebmyaxezbercxebxuqxskxemh
xaxsrbeyxgizs ehdmnegedzhyxiefxoxy-kgbxegremsxexsiermercxekdmvemheg
 mmbxezseRmrrxscgneKmqdreDmgiegrercxemrcxdte.mqebxx,eOgrbms,emqdeyzrryx
ixiqkrzmsbecgaxebqiixsy.egbbqnxiegenqkcenmdxeznvmdrgsregsieyxbb
zssmkxsregbvxkrteCxdxezbercxebrmsx;ercxebrmsxekgnxehdmnercxe mmbx,egsi
rcxe mmbxekgnxehdmneNdteCxsd.eLgjxd,ercxe xsryxngseozrcercxelgiecgregsi
gyyercxemrcxdekcgdgkrxdzbrzkbeozrceoczkceZecgaxelmdxie.mqteBmesmoeox
nqbrebxremqdbxyaxbeaxd.ebxdzmqby.ermehzsizs erczbe xsryxngsegsi
gbkxdrgzszs eocgrevgdrecxecgbevyg.xiezserczbeyzrryxen.brxd.teRmeim
rczb,eoxenqbrerd.ercxebznvyxbrenxgsbehzdbr,egsiercxbxeyzxeqsimqlrxiy.
zsegsegiaxdrzbxnxsrezsegyyercxexaxszs evgvxdbteZherczbehgzy,eZebcgyy
cgaxedxkmqdbxermemrcxdenxrcmibt”

“Ocgreozyye.mqebg.?”

“ zaxenxegevxskzyegsiercgrebyzvemhevgvxdteSmo,ercxs:e‘Hmqsiegrercx
kmdsxdemhe mmi xeBrdxxr,ege mmbxegsiegelygkjehxyrecgrteNdteCxsd.eLgjxd
kgsecgaxercxebgnxel.egvvy.zs egre6:30erczbexaxszs egre221L,eLgjxd
Brdxxrt’eRcgrezbekyxgdegsiekmskzbxt”

“Axd.teLqreozyyecxebxxezr?”

“Oxyy,ecxezbebqdxermejxxvegsex.xemsercxevgvxdb,ebzskx,ermegevmmdengs,
rcxeymbbeogbegecxga.emsxteCxeogbekyxgdy.ebmebkgdxiel.eczbenzbkcgskxezs
ldxgjzs ercxeozsimoegsiel.ercxegvvdmgkcemheVxrxdbmsercgrecxercmq cremh
smrczs elqrehyz cr,elqrebzskxercxsecxenqbrecgaxelzrrxdy.edx dxrrxiercx
znvqybxeoczkcekgqbxiecznermeidmveczbelzditeRcxs,eg gzs,ercx
zsrdmiqkrzmsemheczbesgnxeozyyekgqbxecznermebxxezr,ehmdexaxd.msxeocm
jsmobeczneozyyeizdxkreczbegrrxsrzmsermezrteCxdxe.mqegdx,eVxrxdbms,edqs
imosermercxegiaxdrzbzs eg xsk.egsiecgaxerczbevqrezsercxexaxszs 
vgvxdbt”

“Zseoczkc,ebzd?”

“Mc,ezsercxe_ ymlx_,e_Brgd_,e_VgyyeNgyy_,e_BrteFgnxb’be gwxrrx_,
_Xaxszs eSxob_,e_Brgsigdi_,e_Xkcm_,egsiegs.emrcxdbercgremkkqderme.mqt”

“Axd.eoxyy,ebzdteGsierczbebrmsx?”

“Gc,e.xb,eZebcgyyejxxvercxebrmsxteRcgsje.mqteGsi,eZebg.,eVxrxdbms,efqbr
lq.ege mmbxemse.mqdeog.elgkjegsieyxgaxezrecxdxeozrcenx,ehmdeoxenqbr
cgaxemsxerme zaxermerczbe xsryxngsezsevygkxemhercxemsxeoczkce.mqd
hgnzy.ezbesmoeixamqdzs t”

Ocxsercxekmnnzbbzmsgzdxecgie msx,eCmynxbermmjeqvercxebrmsxegsiecxyiezr
g gzsbrercxeyz crte“Zr’begelmss.erczs ,”ebgziecxte“Fqbrebxxecmoezr
 yzsrbegsiebvgdjyxbteMhekmqdbxezrezbegesqkyxqbegsiehmkqbemhekdznxt
Xaxd.e mmiebrmsxezbteRcx.egdxercxeixazy’bevxrelgzrbteZsercxeygd xdegsi
myixdefxoxybexaxd.ehgkxreng.ebrgsiehmdegelymmi.eixxiteRczbebrmsxezbesmr
.xreroxsr.e.xgdbemyiteZreogbehmqsiezsercxelgsjbemhercxeGnm.eDzaxdezs
bmqrcxdseKczsgegsiezbedxngdjglyxezsecgazs exaxd.ekcgdgkrxdzbrzkemhercx
kgdlqskyx,ebgaxercgrezrezbelyqxezsebcgixezsbrxgiemhedql.edxiteZsebvzrx
mhezrbe.mqrc,ezrecgbegydxgi.egebzszbrxdeczbrmd.teRcxdxecgaxelxxserom
nqdixdb,egeazrdzmy-rcdmozs ,egebqzkzix,egsiebxaxdgyedmllxdzxbeldmq cr
glmqrehmdercxebgjxemherczbehmdr.- dgzseoxz cremhekd.brgyyzbxiekcgdkmgyt
Ocmeomqyierczsjercgrebmevdxrr.egerm.eomqyielxegevqdax.mdermercxe gyymob
gsiercxevdzbms?eZ’yyeymkjezreqvezsen.ebrdms elmpesmoegsieidmvegeyzsxerm
rcxeKmqsrxbbermebg.ercgreoxecgaxezrt”

“Ime.mqerczsjercgrerczbengseCmdsxdezbezssmkxsr?”

“Zekgssmrerxyyt”

“Oxyy,ercxs,eime.mqezng zsxercgrerczbemrcxdemsx,eCxsd.eLgjxd,ecgi
gs.rczs ermeimeozrcercxengrrxd?”

“Zrezb,eZerczsj,enqkcenmdxeyzjxy.ercgreCxsd.eLgjxdezbegseglbmyqrxy.
zssmkxsrengs,eocmecgiesmezixgercgrercxelzdieoczkcecxeogbekgdd.zs eogb
mhekmsbzixdgly.enmdxeagyqxercgsezhezreoxdxengixemhebmyzie myiteRcgr,
cmoxaxd,eZebcgyyeixrxdnzsxel.egeaxd.ebznvyxerxbrezheoxecgaxegsegsboxd
rmemqdegiaxdrzbxnxsrt”

“Gsie.mqekgseimesmrczs eqsrzyercxs?”

“Smrczs t”

“ZsercgrekgbxeZebcgyyekmsrzsqxen.evdmhxbbzmsgyedmqsiteLqreZebcgyyekmnx
lgkjezsercxexaxszs egrercxecmqde.mqecgaxenxsrzmsxi,ehmdeZebcmqyieyzjx
rmebxxercxebmyqrzmsemhebmergs yxiegelqbzsxbbt”

“Axd.e ygiermebxxe.mqteZeizsxegrebxaxsteRcxdxezbegeommikmkj,eZelxyzxaxt
L.ercxeog.,ezseazxoemhedxkxsremkkqddxskxb,evxdcgvbeZemq crermegbjeNdbt
Cqibmsermexpgnzsxezrbekdmvt”

Zecgielxxseixyg.xiegregekgbx,egsiezreogbegeyzrryxeghrxdecgyh-vgbrebzp
ocxseZehmqsien.bxyhezseLgjxdeBrdxxremskxenmdxteGbeZegvvdmgkcxiercx
cmqbxeZebgoegergyyengsezsegeBkmrkcelmssxreozrcegekmgreoczkceogb
lqrrmsxieqvermeczbekczseogzrzs emqrbzixezsercxeldz crebxnzkzdkyxeoczkc
ogbercdmosehdmnercxehgsyz crteFqbregbeZegddzaxiercxeimmdeogbemvxsxi,
gsieoxeoxdxebcmoseqverm xrcxdermeCmynxb’edmmnt

“NdteCxsd.eLgjxd,eZelxyzxax,”ebgziecx,edzbzs ehdmneczbegdnkcgzdegsi
 dxxrzs eczbeazbzrmdeozrcercxexgb.egzdemhe xszgyzr.eoczkcecxekmqyiebm
dxgizy.egbbqnxte“Vdg.ergjxerczbekcgzdel.ercxehzdx,eNdteLgjxdteZrezbeg
kmyiesz cr,egsieZemlbxdaxercgre.mqdekzdkqygrzmsezbenmdxegigvrxiehmd
bqnnxdercgsehmdeozsrxdteGc,eOgrbms,e.mqecgaxefqbrekmnxegrercxedz cr
rznxteZbercgre.mqdecgr,eNdteLgjxd?”

“.xb,ebzd,ercgrezbeqsimqlrxiy.en.ecgrt”

Cxeogbegeygd xengseozrcedmqsixiebcmqyixdb,egengbbzaxecxgi,egsiegeldmgi,
zsrxyyz xsrehgkx,ebymvzs eimosermegevmzsrxielxgdiemhe dzwwyxieldmosteG
rmqkcemhedxiezsesmbxegsiekcxxjb,eozrcegebyz crerdxnmdemheczbexprxsixi
cgsi,edxkgyyxieCmynxb’ebqdnzbxegbermeczbecglzrbteCzbedqbr.elygkj
hdmkj-kmgreogbelqrrmsxiedz creqvezsehdmsr,eozrcercxekmyygderqdsxieqv,
gsieczbeygsjeodzbrbevdmrdqixiehdmneczbebyxxaxbeozrcmqregebz semhekqhh
mdebczdrteCxebvmjxezsegebymoebrgkkgrmehgbczms,ekcmmbzs eczbeomdibeozrc
kgdx,egsie gaxercxeznvdxbbzmse xsxdgyy.emhegengsemheyxgdszs egsi
yxrrxdbeocmecgiecgiezyy-qbg xegrercxecgsibemhehmdrqsxt

“Oxecgaxedxrgzsxiercxbxerczs behmdebmnxeig.b,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“lxkgqbxeox
xpvxkrxiermebxxegsegiaxdrzbxnxsrehdmne.mqe zazs e.mqdegiidxbbteZegnegr
geymbbermejsmoesmoeoc.e.mqeiziesmregiaxdrzbxt”

Mqdeazbzrmde gaxegedgrcxdebcgnxhgkxieygq cte“Bczyyzs becgaxesmrelxxsebm
vyxsrzhqyeozrcenxegbercx.emskxeoxdx,”ecxedxngdjxite“Zecgiesmeimqlrercgr
rcxe gs emhedmq cbeocmegbbgqyrxienxecgiekgddzxiemhhelmrcen.ecgregsiercx
lzditeZeiziesmrekgdxermebvxsienmdxenmsx.ezsegecmvxyxbbegrrxnvregr
dxkmaxdzs ercxnt”

“Axd.esgrqdgyy.teL.ercxeog.,eglmqrercxelzdi,eoxeoxdxekmnvxyyxiermexgr
zrt”

“Rmexgrezr!”eMqdeazbzrmdecgyhedmbxehdmneczbekcgzdezseczbexpkzrxnxsrt

“.xb,ezreomqyiecgaxelxxsemhesmeqbxermegs.msxecgieoxesmreimsxebmteLqreZ
vdxbqnxercgrerczbemrcxde mmbxeqvmsercxebzixlmgdi,eoczkcezbeglmqrercx
bgnxeoxz cregsievxdhxkry.ehdxbc,eozyyegsboxde.mqdevqdvmbxexuqgyy.
oxyy?”

“Mc,ekxdrgzsy.,ekxdrgzsy.,”egsboxdxieNdteLgjxdeozrcegebz cemhedxyzxht

“Mhekmqdbx,eoxebrzyyecgaxercxehxgrcxdb,eyx b,ekdmv,egsiebmemsemhe.mqd
moselzdi,ebmezhe.mqeozbc—”

Rcxengselqdbrezsrmegecxgdr.eygq cte“Rcx.enz crelxeqbxhqyermenxegb
dxyzkbemhen.egiaxsrqdx,”ebgziecx,e“lqrelx.msiercgreZekgsecgdiy.ebxx
ocgreqbxercxe_izbfxkrgenxnldg_emhen.eygrxegkuqgzsrgskxegdxe mzs ermelx
rmenxteSm,ebzd,eZerczsjercgr,eozrce.mqdevxdnzbbzms,eZeozyyekmshzsxen.
grrxsrzmsbermercxexpkxyyxsrelzdieoczkceZevxdkxzaxeqvmsercxebzixlmgdit”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbe ygskxiebcgdvy.egkdmbbegrenxeozrcegebyz crebcdq emheczb
bcmqyixdbt

“Rcxdxezbe.mqdecgr,ercxs,egsiercxdxe.mqdelzdi,”ebgziecxte“L.ercxeog.,
omqyiezrelmdxe.mqermerxyyenxeocxdxe.mqe mrercxemrcxdemsxehdmn?eZegn
bmnxocgremhegehmoyehgskzxd,egsieZecgaxebxyimnebxxsegelxrrxde dmos
 mmbxt”

“Kxdrgzsy.,ebzd,”ebgzieLgjxd,eocmecgiedzbxsegsierqkjxieczbesxoy.e gzsxi
vdmvxdr.eqsixdeczbegdnte“RcxdxegdxegehxoemheqbeocmehdxuqxsrercxeGyvcg
Zss,esxgdercxeNqbxqn—oxegdxermelxehmqsiezsercxeNqbxqnezrbxyheiqdzs ercx
ig.,e.mqeqsixdbrgsiteRczbe.xgdemqde mmiecmbr,eOzsiz grxel.esgnx,
zsbrzrqrxiege mmbxekyql,el.eoczkc,emsekmsbzixdgrzmsemhebmnxehxoevxskx
xaxd.eoxxj,eoxeoxdxexgkcermedxkxzaxegelzdiegreKcdzbrngbteN.evxskxeoxdx
iqy.evgzi,egsiercxedxbrezbehgnzyzgderme.mqteZegnenqkcezsixlrxierme.mq,
bzd,ehmdegeBkmrkcelmssxrezbehzrrxiesxzrcxdermen.e.xgdbesmden.e dgazr.t”
Ozrcegekmnzkgyevmnvmbzr.emhengssxdecxelmoxiebmyxnsy.ermelmrcemheqbegsi
brdmixemhheqvmseczbeog.t

“BmenqkcehmdeNdteCxsd.eLgjxd,”ebgzieCmynxbeocxsecxecgiekymbxiercxeimmd
lxczsiecznte“Zrezbeuqzrxekxdrgzsercgrecxejsmobesmrczs eocgrxaxdeglmqr
rcxengrrxdteGdxe.mqecqs d.,eOgrbms?”

“Smrevgdrzkqygdy.t”

“RcxseZebq  xbrercgreoxerqdsemqdeizssxdezsrmegebqvvxdegsiehmyymoeqv
rczbekyqxeoczyxezrezbebrzyyecmrt”

“L.egyyenxgsbt”

Zreogbegelzrrxdesz cr,ebmeoxeidxoemsemqdeqybrxdbegsieodgvvxiekdgagrb
glmqremqdercdmgrbteMqrbzix,ercxebrgdbeoxdxebczszs ekmyiy.ezseg
kymqiyxbbebj.,egsiercxeldxgrcemhercxevgbbxdb-l.elyxoemqrezsrmebnmjx
yzjxebmengs.evzbrmyebcmrbteMqdehmmrhgyybedgs emqrekdzbvy.egsieymqiy.egb
oxeboqs ercdmq cercxeimkrmdb’euqgdrxd,eOznvmyxeBrdxxr,eCgdyx.eBrdxxr,
gsiebmercdmq ceOz nmdxeBrdxxrezsrmeMphmdieBrdxxrteZsegeuqgdrxdemhegs
cmqdeoxeoxdxezseLymmnblqd.egrercxeGyvcgeZss,eoczkcezbegebngyy
vqlyzk-cmqbxegrercxekmdsxdemhemsxemhercxebrdxxrbeoczkcedqsbeimosezsrm
CmylmdsteCmynxbevqbcxiemvxsercxeimmdemhercxevdzagrxelgdegsiemdixdxierom
 ygbbxbemhelxxdehdmnercxedqii.-hgkxi,eoczrx-gvdmsxieygsiymdit

“.mqdelxxdebcmqyielxexpkxyyxsrezhezrezbegbe mmiegbe.mqde xxbx,”ebgzi
cxt

“N.e xxbx!”eRcxengsebxxnxiebqdvdzbxit

“.xbteZeogbebvxgjzs emsy.ecgyhegsecmqdeg mermeNdteCxsd.eLgjxd,eocmeogb
genxnlxdemhe.mqde mmbxekyqlt”

“Gc!e.xb,eZebxxteLqre.mqebxx,ebzd,ercxn’besmre_mqd_e xxbxt”

“Zsixxi!eOcmbx,ercxs?”

“Oxyy,eZe mrercxeromeimwxsehdmnegebgyxbngsezseKmaxsre gdixst”

“Zsixxi?eZejsmoebmnxemhercxnteOczkceogbezr?”

“Ldxkjzsdzi xezbeczbesgnxt”

“Gc!eZeims’rejsmoecznteOxyy,ecxdx’be.mqde mmiecxgyrceygsiymdi,egsi
vdmbvxdzr.erme.mqdecmqbxte mmi-sz crt”

“SmoehmdeNdteLdxkjzsdzi x,”ecxekmsrzsqxi,elqrrmszs eqveczbekmgregbeox
kgnxemqrezsrmercxehdmbr.egzdte“Dxnxnlxd,eOgrbmsercgrercmq ceoxecgaxebm
cmnxy.egerczs egbege mmbxegremsxexsiemherczbekcgzs,eoxecgaxegrercx
mrcxdegengseocmeozyyekxdrgzsy.e xrebxaxse.xgdb’evxsgyebxdazrqixeqsyxbb
oxekgsexbrglyzbceczbezssmkxskxteZrezbevmbbzlyxercgremqdezsuqzd.eng.elqr
kmshzdneczbe qzyr;elqr,ezsegs.ekgbx,eoxecgaxegeyzsxemhezsaxbrz grzms
oczkcecgbelxxsenzbbxiel.ercxevmyzkx,egsieoczkcegebzs qygdekcgskxecgb
vygkxiezsemqdecgsibteYxreqbehmyymoezremqrermercxelzrrxdexsiteHgkxberm
rcxebmqrc,ercxs,egsieuqzkjengdkc!”

OxevgbbxiegkdmbbeCmylmds,eimoseXsixyyeBrdxxr,egsiebmercdmq cegewz wg 
mhebyqnbermeKmaxsre gdixseNgdjxrteMsxemhercxeygd xbrebrgyybelmdxercx
sgnxemheLdxkjzsdzi xeqvmsezr,egsiercxevdmvdzxrmdegecmdbx.-ymmjzs engs,
ozrcegebcgdvehgkxegsierdznebzix-oczbjxdbeogbecxyvzs egelm.ermevqreqv
rcxebcqrrxdbt

“ mmi-xaxszs teZr’begekmyiesz cr,”ebgzieCmynxbt

Rcxebgyxbngsesmiixiegsiebcmregeuqxbrzmszs e ygskxegren.ekmnvgszmst

“Bmyiemqremhe xxbx,eZebxx,”ekmsrzsqxieCmynxb,evmzsrzs egrercxelgdx
byglbemhengdlyxt

“Yxre.mqecgaxehzaxecqsidxierm-nmddmoenmdszs t”

“Rcgr’besme mmit”

“Oxyy,ercxdxegdxebmnxemsercxebrgyyeozrcercxe gb-hygdxt”

“Gc,elqreZeogbedxkmnnxsixierme.mqt”

“Ocmel.?”

“RcxeygsiymdiemhercxeGyvcgt”

“Mc,e.xb;eZebxsrecznegekmqvyxemheimwxst”

“Hzsxelzdibercx.eoxdx,ermmteSmoeocxdxeizie.mqe xrercxnehdmn?”

Rmen.ebqdvdzbxercxeuqxbrzmsevdmamjxiegelqdbremhegs xdehdmnercx
bgyxbngst

“Smo,ercxs,enzbrxd,”ebgziecx,eozrceczbecxgiekmkjxiegsieczbegdnbegjznlm,
“ocgregdxe.mqeidzazs egr?eYxr’becgaxezrebrdgz cr,esmot”

“Zrezbebrdgz crexsmq cteZebcmqyieyzjxermejsmoeocmebmyie.mqercxe xxbx
oczkce.mqebqvvyzxiermercxeGyvcgt”

“Oxyyercxs,eZebcgs’rerxyye.mqteBmesmo!”

“Mc,ezrezbegengrrxdemhesmeznvmdrgskx;elqreZeims’rejsmoeoc.e.mqebcmqyi
lxebmeogdnemaxdebqkcegerdzhyxt”

“Ogdn!e.mq’ielxegbeogdn,eng.lx,ezhe.mqeoxdxegbevxbrxdxiegbeZegnteOcxseZ
vg.e mmienmsx.ehmdege mmiegdrzkyxercxdxebcmqyielxegsexsiemhercx
lqbzsxbb;elqrezr’be‘Ocxdxegdxercxe xxbx?’egsie‘Ocmeizie.mqebxyyercx
 xxbxerm?’egsie‘Ocgreozyye.mqergjxehmdercxe xxbx?’eMsxeomqyierczsjercx.
oxdxercxemsy.e xxbxezsercxeomdyi,ermecxgdercxehqbbercgrezbengixemaxd
rcxnt”

“Oxyy,eZecgaxesmekmssxkrzmseozrcegs.emrcxdevxmvyxeocmecgaxelxxsengjzs 
zsuqzdzxb,”ebgzieCmynxbekgdxyxbby.te“Zhe.mqeoms’rerxyyeqbercxelxrezb
mhh,ercgrezbegyyteLqreZ’negyog.bedxgi.ermelgkjen.emvzszmsemsegengrrxd
mhehmoyb,egsieZecgaxegehzaxdemsezrercgrercxelzdieZegrxezbekmqsrd.
ldxit”

“Oxyy,ercxs,e.mq’axeymbre.mqdehzaxd,ehmdezr’bermoseldxi,”ebsgvvxiercx
bgyxbngst

“Zr’besmrczs emhercxejzsit”

“Zebg.ezrezbt”

“Zeims’relxyzxaxezrt”

“I’.mqerczsje.mqejsmoenmdxeglmqrehmoybercgseZ,eocmecgaxecgsiyxiercxn
xaxdebzskxeZeogbegeszvvxd?eZerxyye.mq,egyyercmbxelzdibercgreoxsrermercx
Gyvcgeoxdxermoseldxit”

“.mq’yyesxaxdevxdbqgixenxermelxyzxaxercgrt”

“Ozyye.mqelxr,ercxs?”

“Zr’benxdxy.ergjzs e.mqdenmsx.,ehmdeZejsmoercgreZegnedz crteLqreZ’yy
cgaxegebmaxdxz semseozrce.mq,efqbrermerxgkce.mqesmrermelxemlbrzsgrxt”

Rcxebgyxbngsekcqkjyxie dzny.te“Ldzs enxercxelmmjb,eLzyy,”ebgziecxt

Rcxebngyyelm.eldmq credmqsiegebngyyerczseamyqnxegsiege dxgr
 dxgb.-lgkjxiemsx,eyg.zs ercxnemqrerm xrcxdelxsxgrcercxecgs zs eygnvt

“Smoercxs,eNdteKmkjbqdx,”ebgziercxebgyxbngs,e“Zercmq crercgreZeogbemqr
mhe xxbx,elqrelxhmdxeZehzszbce.mq’yyehzsiercgrercxdxezbebrzyyemsxeyxhr
zsen.ebcmvte.mqebxxerczbeyzrryxelmmj?”

“Oxyy?”

“Rcgr’bercxeyzbremhercxehmyjehdmneocmneZelq.teI’.mqebxx?eOxyy,ercxs,
cxdxemserczbevg xegdxercxekmqsrd.ehmyj,egsiercxesqnlxdbeghrxdercxzd
sgnxbegdxeocxdxercxzdegkkmqsrbegdxezsercxelz eyxi xdteSmo,ercxs!e.mq
bxxerczbemrcxdevg xezsedxiezsj?eOxyy,ercgrezbegeyzbremhen.ermos
bqvvyzxdbteSmo,eymmjegrercgrerczdiesgnxteFqbredxgiezremqrermenxt”

“NdbteMgjbcmrr,e117,eLdzprmseDmgi—249,”edxgieCmynxbt

“UqzrxebmteSmoerqdsercgreqvezsercxeyxi xdt”

Cmynxberqdsxiermercxevg xezsizkgrxite“Cxdxe.mqegdx,e‘NdbteMgjbcmrr,
117,eLdzprmseDmgi,ex  egsievmqyrd.ebqvvyzxdt’”

“Smo,ercxs,eocgr’bercxeygbrexsrd.?”

“‘Ixkxnlxde22siteRoxsr.-hmqde xxbxegre7_b_te6_i_t’”

“UqzrxebmteRcxdxe.mqegdxteGsieqsixdsxgrc?”

“‘BmyiermeNdteOzsiz grxemhercxeGyvcg,egre12_b_t’”

“Ocgrecgaxe.mqermebg.esmo?”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeymmjxieixxvy.ekcg dzsxiteCxeidxoegebmaxdxz sehdmneczb
vmkjxregsiercdxoezreimoseqvmsercxebygl,erqdszs egog.eozrcercxegzdemheg
ngseocmbxeizb qbrezbermmeixxvehmdeomdibteGehxoe.gdibemhhecxebrmvvxi
qsixdegeygnv-vmbregsieygq cxiezsercxecxgdr.,esmzbxyxbbehgbczmseoczkc
ogbevxkqyzgdermecznt

“Ocxse.mqebxxegengseozrceoczbjxdbemhercgrekqregsiercxe‘Vzsje’qs’
vdmrdqizs emqremheczbevmkjxr,e.mqekgsegyog.beidgoecznel.egelxr,”ebgzi
cxte“Zeigdxbg.ercgrezheZecgievqre£e100eimosezsehdmsremheczn,ercgrengs
omqyiesmrecgaxe zaxsenxebqkcekmnvyxrxezshmdngrzmsegbeogbeidgosehdmneczn
l.ercxezixgercgrecxeogbeimzs enxemsegeog xdteOxyy,eOgrbms,eoxegdx,eZ
hgsk.,esxgdzs ercxexsiemhemqdeuqxbr,egsiercxemsy.evmzsreoczkcedxngzsb
rmelxeixrxdnzsxiezbeocxrcxdeoxebcmqyie memsermerczbeNdbteMgjbcmrr
rm-sz cr,emdeocxrcxdeoxebcmqyiedxbxdaxezrehmderm-nmddmoteZrezbekyxgd
hdmneocgrercgrebqdy.ehxyymoebgziercgrercxdxegdxemrcxdbelxbzixb
mqdbxyaxbeocmegdxegspzmqbeglmqrercxengrrxd,egsieZebcmqyi—”

Czbedxngdjbeoxdxebqiixsy.ekqrebcmdrel.egeymqiecqllqleoczkceldmjxemqr
hdmnercxebrgyyeoczkceoxecgiefqbreyxhrteRqdszs edmqsieoxebgoegeyzrryx
dgr-hgkxiehxyymoebrgsizs ezsercxekxsrdxemhercxekzdkyxemhe.xyymoeyz cr
oczkceogbercdmosel.ercxebozs zs eygnv,eoczyxeLdxkjzsdzi x,ercx
bgyxbngs,ehdgnxiezsercxeimmdemheczbebrgyy,eogbebcgjzs eczbehzbrb
hzxdkxy.egrercxekdzs zs ehz qdxt

“Z’axecgiexsmq cemhe.mqegsie.mqde xxbx,”ecxebcmqrxite“Zeozbce.mqeoxdx
gyyegrercxeixazyerm xrcxdteZhe.mqekmnxevxbrxdzs enxegs.enmdxeozrce.mqd
bzyy.ergyjeZ’yyebxrercxeim egre.mqte.mqeldzs eNdbteMgjbcmrrecxdxegsi
Z’yyegsboxdecxd,elqreocgrecgaxe.mqermeimeozrcezr?eIzieZelq.ercxe xxbx
mhhe.mq?”

“Sm;elqremsxemhercxneogbenzsxegyyercxebgnx,”eoczsxiercxeyzrryxengst

“Oxyy,ercxs,egbjeNdbteMgjbcmrrehmdezrt”

“Bcxermyienxermegbje.mqt”

“Oxyy,e.mqekgsegbjercxeJzs emheVdmmbzg,ehmdegyyeZekgdxteZ’axecgiexsmq c
mhezrte xremqremherczb!”eCxedqbcxiehzxdkxy.ehmdogdi,egsiercxezsuqzdxd
hyzrrxiegog.ezsrmercxeigdjsxbbt

“Cg!erczbeng.ebgaxeqbegeazbzrermeLdzprmseDmgi,”eoczbvxdxieCmynxbte“Kmnx
ozrcenx,egsieoxeozyyebxxeocgrezbermelxengixemherczbehxyymot”eBrdzizs 
rcdmq cercxebkgrrxdxiejsmrbemhevxmvyxeocmeymqs xiedmqsiercxehygdzs 
brgyyb,en.ekmnvgszmsebvxxizy.emaxdrmmjercxeyzrryxengsegsiermqkcxieczn
qvmsercxebcmqyixdteCxebvdgs edmqsi,egsieZekmqyiebxxezsercxe gb-yz cr
rcgrexaxd.eaxbrz xemhekmymqdecgielxxseidzaxsehdmneczbehgkxt

“Ocmegdxe.mq,ercxs?eOcgreime.mqeogsr?”ecxegbjxiezsegeuqgaxdzs eamzkxt

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxenx,”ebgzieCmynxbelygsiy.,e“lqreZekmqyiesmrecxyv
maxdcxgdzs ercxeuqxbrzmsbeoczkce.mqevqrermercxebgyxbngsefqbresmoteZ
rczsjercgreZekmqyielxemhegbbzbrgskxerme.mqt”

“.mq?eOcmegdxe.mq?eCmoekmqyie.mqejsmoegs.rczs emhercxengrrxd?”

“N.esgnxezbeBcxdymkjeCmynxbteZrezben.elqbzsxbbermejsmoeocgremrcxd
vxmvyxeims’rejsmot”

“Lqre.mqekgsejsmoesmrczs emherczb?”

“Xpkqbxenx,eZejsmoexaxd.rczs emhezrte.mqegdxexsixgamqdzs ermerdgkxebmnx
 xxbxeoczkceoxdxebmyiel.eNdbteMgjbcmrr,emheLdzprmseDmgi,ermegebgyxbngs
sgnxieLdxkjzsdzi x,el.ecznezserqdsermeNdteOzsiz grx,emhercxeGyvcg,egsi
l.ecznermeczbekyql,emheoczkceNdteCxsd.eLgjxdezbegenxnlxdt”

“Mc,ebzd,e.mqegdxercxeaxd.engseocmneZecgaxeyms xiermenxxr,”ekdzxiercx
yzrryxehxyymoeozrcemqrbrdxrkcxiecgsibegsieuqzaxdzs ehzs xdbte“Zekgs
cgdiy.expvygzserme.mqecmoezsrxdxbrxieZegnezserczbengrrxdt”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbecgzyxiegehmqd-ocxxyxdeoczkceogbevgbbzs te“Zsercgrekgbx
oxecgielxrrxdeizbkqbbezrezsegekmb.edmmnedgrcxdercgsezserczbeozsi-boxvr
ngdjxr-vygkx,”ebgziecxte“Lqrevdg.erxyyenx,elxhmdxeoxe mehgdrcxd,eocmezr
zbercgreZecgaxercxevyxgbqdxemhegbbzbrzs t”

Rcxengsecxbzrgrxiehmdegsezsbrgsrte“N.esgnxezbeFmcseDmlzsbms,”ecx
gsboxdxieozrcegebzixyms e ygskxt

“Sm,esm;ercxedxgyesgnx,”ebgzieCmynxbeboxxry.te“Zrezbegyog.begojogdi
imzs elqbzsxbbeozrcegsegyzgbt”

Gehyqbcebvdgs ermercxeoczrxekcxxjbemhercxebrdgs xdte“Oxyyercxs,”ebgzi
cx,e“n.edxgyesgnxezbeFgnxbeD.ixdt”

“Vdxkzbxy.ebmteCxgiegrrxsigsregrercxeCmrxyeKmbnmvmyzrgsteVdg.ebrxvezsrm
rcxekgl,egsieZebcgyyebmmselxeglyxermerxyye.mqexaxd.rczs eoczkce.mq
omqyieozbcermejsmot”

Rcxeyzrryxengsebrmmie ygskzs ehdmnemsxermercxemrcxdemheqbeozrc
cgyh-hdz crxsxi,ecgyh-cmvxhqyex.xb,egbemsxeocmezbesmrebqdxeocxrcxdecx
zbemsercxeaxd xemhegeozsihgyyemdemhegekgrgbrdmvcxteRcxsecxebrxvvxiezsrm
rcxekgl,egsiezsecgyhegsecmqdeoxeoxdxelgkjezsercxebzrrzs -dmmnegreLgjxd
BrdxxrteSmrczs ecgielxxsebgzieiqdzs emqdeidzax,elqrercxecz c,erczs
ldxgrczs emhemqdesxoekmnvgszms,egsiercxekygbvzs begsieqskygbvzs bemh
czbecgsib,ebvmjxemhercxesxdamqberxsbzmseozrczsecznt

“Cxdxeoxegdx!”ebgzieCmynxbekcxxdzy.egbeoxehzyxiezsrmercxedmmnte“Rcx
hzdxeymmjbeaxd.ebxgbmsglyxezserczbeoxgrcxdte.mqeymmjekmyi,eNdteD.ixdt
Vdg.ergjxercxelgbjxr-kcgzdteZeozyyefqbrevqremsen.ebyzvvxdbelxhmdxeox
bxrryxerczbeyzrryxengrrxdemhe.mqdbteSmo,ercxs!e.mqeogsrermejsmoeocgr
lxkgnxemhercmbxe xxbx?”

“.xb,ebzdt”

“Mdedgrcxd,eZehgsk.,emhercgre mmbxteZreogbemsxelzdi,eZezng zsxezseoczkc
.mqeoxdxezsrxdxbrxi—oczrx,eozrcegelygkjelgdegkdmbbercxergzyt”

D.ixdeuqzaxdxieozrcexnmrzmste“Mc,ebzd,”ecxekdzxi,e“kgse.mqerxyyenx
ocxdxezreoxsrerm?”

“Zrekgnxecxdxt”

“Cxdx?”

“.xb,egsiegenmbredxngdjglyxelzdiezrevdmaxiteZeims’reomsixdercgre.mq
bcmqyiergjxegsezsrxdxbrezsezrteZreygziegsex  eghrxdezreogbeixgi—rcx
lmsszxbr,eldz crxbreyzrryxelyqxex  ercgrexaxdeogbebxxsteZecgaxezrecxdx
zsen.enqbxqnt”

Mqdeazbzrmdebrg  xdxiermeczbehxxregsiekyqrkcxiercxengsrxyvzxkxeozrceczb
dz crecgsiteCmynxbeqsymkjxieczbebrdms -lmpegsiecxyieqvercxelyqx
kgdlqskyx,eoczkcebcmsxemqreyzjxegebrgd,eozrcegekmyi,eldzyyzgsr,
ngs.-vmzsrxiedgizgskxteD.ixdebrmmie ygdzs eozrcegeidgosehgkx,eqskxdrgzs
ocxrcxdermekygznemdermeizbmosezrt

“Rcxe gnx’beqv,eD.ixd,”ebgzieCmynxbeuqzxry.te“Cmyieqv,engs,emde.mq’yy
lxezsrmercxehzdx!e zaxecznegsegdnelgkjezsrmeczbekcgzd,eOgrbmsteCx’besmr
 mrelymmiexsmq cerme mezsehmdehxyms.eozrceznvqszr.te zaxecznegeigbcemh
ldgsi.teBm!eSmoecxeymmjbegeyzrryxenmdxecqngsteOcgregebcdznvezrezb,erm
lxebqdx!”

Hmdegenmnxsrecxecgiebrg  xdxiegsiesxgdy.ehgyyxs,elqrercxeldgsi.eldmq cr
gerzs xemhekmymqdezsrmeczbekcxxjb,egsiecxebgrebrgdzs eozrcehdz crxsxi
x.xbegreczbegkkqbxdt

“Zecgaxegynmbrexaxd.eyzsjezsen.ecgsib,egsiegyyercxevdmmhbeoczkceZekmqyi
vmbbzly.esxxi,ebmercxdxezbeyzrryxeoczkce.mqesxxierxyyenxteBrzyy,ercgr
yzrryxeng.egbeoxyyelxekyxgdxieqvermengjxercxekgbxekmnvyxrxte.mqecgi
cxgdi,eD.ixd,emherczbelyqxebrmsxemhercxeKmqsrxbbemheNmdkgd’b?”

“ZreogbeKgrcxdzsxeKqbgkjeocmermyienxemhezr,”ebgziecxezsegekdgkjyzs 
amzkxt

“Zebxx—cxdeygi.bczv’beogzrzs -ngziteOxyy,ercxerxnvrgrzmsemhebqiixs
oxgyrcebmexgbzy.egkuqzdxieogbermmenqkcehmde.mq,egbezrecgbelxxsehmd
lxrrxdenxselxhmdxe.mq;elqre.mqeoxdxesmreaxd.ebkdqvqymqbezsercxenxgsb
.mqeqbxiteZrebxxnbermenx,eD.ixd,ercgrercxdxezbercxengjzs emhegeaxd.
vdxrr.eazyygzsezse.mqte.mqejsxoercgrerczbengseCmdsxd,ercxevyqnlxd,ecgi
lxxsekmskxdsxiezsebmnxebqkcengrrxdelxhmdx,egsiercgrebqbvzkzmseomqyi
dxbrercxenmdxedxgizy.eqvmsecznteOcgreizie.mqeim,ercxs?e.mqengixebmnx
bngyyefmlezsen.eygi.’bedmmn—.mqegsie.mqdekmshxixdgrxeKqbgkj—gsie.mq
ngsg xiercgrecxebcmqyielxercxengsebxsrehmdteRcxs,eocxsecxecgieyxhr,e.mq
dzhyxiercxefxoxy-kgbx,edgzbxiercxegygdn,egsiecgierczbeqshmdrqsgrxengs
gddxbrxite.mqercxs—”

D.ixdercdxoecznbxyheimosebqiixsy.eqvmsercxedq egsiekyqrkcxiegren.
kmnvgszms’bejsxxbte“Hmde mi’bebgjx,ecgaxenxdk.!”ecxebcdzxjxite“Rczsjemh
n.ehgrcxd!eMhen.enmrcxd!eZreomqyieldxgjercxzdecxgdrbteZesxaxdeoxsr
odms elxhmdx!eZesxaxdeozyyeg gzsteZeboxgdezrteZ’yyeboxgdezremsegeLzlyxt
Mc,eims’reldzs ezrezsrmekmqdr!eHmdeKcdzbr’bebgjx,eims’r!”

“ xrelgkjezsrme.mqdekcgzd!”ebgzieCmynxbebrxdsy.te“Zrezbeaxd.eoxyyerm
kdzs xegsiekdgoyesmo,elqre.mqercmq creyzrryxexsmq cemherczbevmmdeCmdsxd
zsercxeimkjehmdegekdznxemheoczkcecxejsxoesmrczs t”

“Zeozyyehy.,eNdteCmynxbteZeozyyeyxgaxercxekmqsrd.,ebzdteRcxsercxekcgd x
g gzsbreczneozyyeldxgjeimost”

“Cqn!eOxeozyyergyjeglmqrercgrteGsiesmoeyxreqbecxgdegerdqxegkkmqsremh
rcxesxpregkrteCmoekgnxercxebrmsxezsrmercxe mmbx,egsiecmoekgnxercxe mmbx
zsrmercxemvxsengdjxr?eRxyyeqbercxerdqrc,ehmdercxdxeyzxbe.mqdemsy.ecmvx
mhebghxr.t”

D.ixdevgbbxieczberms qxemaxdeczbevgdkcxieyzvbte“Zeozyyerxyye.mqezrefqbr
gbezrecgvvxsxi,ebzd,”ebgziecxte“OcxseCmdsxdecgielxxsegddxbrxi,ezr
bxxnxiermenxercgrezreomqyielxelxbrehmdenxerme xregog.eozrcercxebrmsxegr
mskx,ehmdeZeiziesmrejsmoegreocgrenmnxsrercxevmyzkxenz cresmrergjxezr
zsrmercxzdecxgibermebxgdkcenxegsien.edmmnteRcxdxeogbesmevygkxeglmqrercx
cmrxyeocxdxezreomqyielxebghxteZeoxsremqr,egbezhemsebmnxekmnnzbbzms,egsi
Zengixehmden.ebzbrxd’becmqbxteBcxecgiengddzxiegengsesgnxieMgjbcmrr,egsi
yzaxiezseLdzprmseDmgi,eocxdxebcxehgrrxsxiehmoybehmdercxengdjxrteGyyercx
og.ercxdxexaxd.engseZenxrebxxnxiermenxermelxegevmyzkxngsemdeg
ixrxkrzax;egsi,ehmdegyyercgrezreogbegekmyiesz cr,ercxeboxgreogbevmqdzs 
imosen.ehgkxelxhmdxeZekgnxermercxeLdzprmseDmgiteN.ebzbrxdegbjxienxeocgr
ogbercxengrrxd,egsieoc.eZeogbebmevgyx;elqreZermyiecxdercgreZecgielxxs
qvbxrel.ercxefxoxyedmllxd.egrercxecmrxyteRcxseZeoxsrezsrmercxelgkje.gdi
gsiebnmjxiegevzvxegsieomsixdxieocgrezreomqyielxelxbrermeimt

“ZecgiegehdzxsiemskxekgyyxieNgqibyx.,eocmeoxsrermercxelgi,egsiecgbefqbr
lxxsebxdazs eczberznxezseVxsrmsazyyxteMsxeig.ecxecgienxrenx,egsiehxyy
zsrmergyjeglmqrercxeog.bemherczxaxb,egsiecmoercx.ekmqyie xredziemheocgr
rcx.ebrmyxteZejsxoercgrecxeomqyielxerdqxermenx,ehmdeZejsxoemsxemderom
rczs beglmqreczn;ebmeZengixeqven.enzsierme medz cremsermeJzylqds,eocxdx
cxeyzaxi,egsiergjxecznezsrmen.ekmshzixskxteCxeomqyiebcmoenxecmoermerqds
rcxebrmsxezsrmenmsx.teLqrecmoerme xrermecznezsebghxr.?eZercmq cremhercx
g mszxbeZecgie msxercdmq cezsekmnzs ehdmnercxecmrxyteZenz cregregs.
nmnxsrelxebxzwxiegsiebxgdkcxi,egsiercxdxeomqyielxercxebrmsxezsen.
ogzbrkmgrevmkjxrteZeogbeyxgszs eg gzsbrercxeogyyegrercxerznxegsi
ymmjzs egrercxe xxbxeoczkceoxdxeogiiyzs eglmqredmqsien.ehxxr,egsi
bqiixsy.egsezixgekgnxezsrmen.ecxgieoczkcebcmoxienxecmoeZekmqyielxgrercx
lxbreixrxkrzaxercgrexaxdeyzaxit

“N.ebzbrxdecgiermyienxebmnxeoxxjbelxhmdxercgreZenz crecgaxercxevzkjemh
cxde xxbxehmdegeKcdzbrngbevdxbxsr,egsieZejsxoercgrebcxeogbegyog.begb
 mmiegbecxdeomditeZeomqyiergjxen.e mmbxesmo,egsiezsezreZeomqyiekgdd.en.
brmsxermeJzylqdsteRcxdxeogbegeyzrryxebcxiezsercxe.gdi,egsielxczsierczb
Zeidmaxemsxemhercxelzdib—gehzsxelz emsx,eoczrx,eozrcegelgddxiergzyteZ
kgq crezr,egsievd.zs ezrbelzyyemvxs,eZercdqbrercxebrmsxeimosezrbercdmgr
gbehgdegben.ehzs xdekmqyiedxgkcteRcxelzdie gaxege qyv,egsieZehxyrercx
brmsxevgbbegyms ezrbe qyyxregsieimosezsrmezrbekdmvteLqrercxekdxgrqdx
hygvvxiegsiebrdq  yxi,egsiemqrekgnxen.ebzbrxdermejsmoeocgreogbercx
ngrrxdteGbeZerqdsxiermebvxgjermecxdercxeldqrxeldmjxeymmbxegsiehyqrrxdxi
mhhegnms ercxemrcxdbt

“‘Ocgrxaxdeoxdxe.mqeimzs eozrcercgrelzdi,eFxn?’ebg.bebcxt

“‘Oxyy,’ebgzieZ,e‘.mqebgzie.mq’ie zaxenxemsxehmdeKcdzbrngb,egsieZeogb
hxxyzs eoczkceogbercxehgrrxbrt’

“‘Mc,’ebg.bebcx,e‘ox’axebxre.mqdbegbzixehmde.mq—Fxn’belzdi,eoxekgyyezrt
Zr’bercxelz eoczrxemsxemaxde.msixdteRcxdx’beroxsr.-bzpemhercxn,eoczkc
ngjxbemsxehmde.mq,egsiemsxehmdeqb,egsieromeimwxsehmdercxengdjxrt’

“‘Rcgsje.mq,eNg  zx,’ebg.beZ;e‘lqrezhezrezbegyyercxebgnxerme.mq,eZ’i
dgrcxdecgaxercgremsxeZeogbecgsiyzs efqbresmot’

“‘Rcxemrcxdezbege mmiercdxxevmqsiecxgazxd,’ebgziebcx,e‘gsieoxehgrrxsxi
zrexpvdxbby.ehmde.mqt’

“‘SxaxdenzsiteZ’yyecgaxercxemrcxd,egsieZ’yyergjxezresmo,’ebgzieZt

“‘Mc,efqbregbe.mqeyzjx,’ebgziebcx,egeyzrryxecqhhxite‘Oczkcezbezre.mq
ogsr,ercxs?’

“‘Rcgreoczrxemsxeozrcercxelgddxiergzy,edz crezsercxenziiyxemhercx
hymkjt’

“‘Mc,eaxd.eoxyyteJzyyezregsiergjxezreozrce.mqt’

“Oxyy,eZeizieocgrebcxebgzi,eNdteCmynxb,egsieZekgddzxiercxelzdiegyyercx
og.ermeJzylqdsteZermyien.evgyeocgreZecgieimsx,ehmdecxeogbegengsercgrezr
ogbexgb.ermerxyyegerczs eyzjxercgrermteCxeygq cxieqsrzyecxekcmjxi,egsi
oxe mregejszhxegsiemvxsxiercxe mmbxteN.ecxgdrerqdsxiermeogrxd,ehmd
rcxdxeogbesmebz semhercxebrmsx,egsieZejsxoercgrebmnxerxddzlyxenzbrgjx
cgiemkkqddxiteZeyxhrercxelzdi,edqbcxielgkjermen.ebzbrxd’b,egsiecqddzxi
zsrmercxelgkje.gditeRcxdxeogbesmregelzdiermelxebxxsercxdxt

“‘Ocxdxegdxercx.egyy,eNg  zx?’eZekdzxit

“‘ msxermercxeixgyxd’b,eFxnt’

“‘Oczkceixgyxd’b?’

“‘Ldxkjzsdzi x,emheKmaxsre gdixst’

“‘Lqreogbercxdxegsmrcxdeozrcegelgddxiergzy?’eZegbjxi,e‘rcxebgnxegbercx
msxeZekcmbx?’

“‘.xb,eFxn;ercxdxeoxdxeromelgddxi-rgzyxiemsxb,egsieZekmqyiesxaxderxyy
rcxnegvgdrt’

“Oxyy,ercxs,emhekmqdbxeZebgoezregyy,egsieZedgsemhhegbecgdiegben.ehxxr
omqyiekgdd.enxermerczbengseLdxkjzsdzi x;elqrecxecgiebmyiercxeymregr
mskx,egsiesmremsxeomdieomqyiecxerxyyenxegbermeocxdxercx.ecgie msxte.mq
cxgdieczne.mqdbxyaxberm-sz crteOxyy,ecxecgbegyog.begsboxdxienxeyzjx
rcgrteN.ebzbrxderczsjbercgreZegne mzs engiteBmnxrznxbeZerczsjercgreZegn
n.bxyhteGsiesmo—gsiesmoeZegnen.bxyhegeldgsixierczxh,eozrcmqrexaxd
cgazs ermqkcxiercxeoxgyrcehmdeoczkceZebmyien.ekcgdgkrxdte miecxyvenx!
 miecxyvenx!”eCxelqdbrezsrmekmsaqybzaxebmllzs ,eozrceczbehgkxelqdzxiezs
czbecgsibt

Rcxdxeogbegeyms ebzyxskx,eldmjxsemsy.el.eczbecxga.eldxgrczs egsiel.ercx
nxgbqdxiergvvzs emheBcxdymkjeCmynxb’ehzs xd-rzvbeqvmsercxexi xemhercx
rglyxteRcxsen.ehdzxsiedmbxegsiercdxoemvxsercxeimmdt

“ xremqr!”ebgziecxt

“Ocgr,ebzd!eMc,eCxgaxselyxbbe.mq!”

“Smenmdxeomdibte xremqr!”

GsiesmenmdxeomdibeoxdxesxxixiteRcxdxeogbegedqbc,egekygrrxdeqvmsercx
brgzdb,ercxelgs emhegeimmd,egsiercxekdzbvedgrryxemhedqsszs ehmmrhgyyb
hdmnercxebrdxxrt

“Ghrxdegyy,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxb,edxgkczs eqveczbecgsiehmdeczbekyg.
vzvx,e“Zegnesmredxrgzsxiel.ercxevmyzkxermebqvvy.ercxzdeixhzkzxskzxbteZh
Cmdsxdeoxdxezseigs xdezreomqyielxegsmrcxderczs ;elqrerczbehxyymoeozyy
smregvvxgdeg gzsbreczn,egsiercxekgbxenqbrekmyygvbxteZebqvvmbxercgreZegn
kmnnqrzs egehxyms.,elqrezrezbefqbrevmbbzlyxercgreZegnebgazs egebmqyt
Rczbehxyymoeozyyesmre meodms eg gzs;ecxezbermmerxddzly.ehdz crxsxit
Bxsiecznerme gmyesmo,egsie.mqengjxecznege gmy-lzdiehmdeyzhxteLxbzixb,
zrezbercxebxgbmsemhehmd zaxsxbbteKcgskxecgbevqrezsemqdeog.egenmbr
bzs qygdegsieocznbzkgyevdmlyxn,egsiezrbebmyqrzmsezbezrbemosedxogditeZh
.mqeozyyecgaxercxe mmisxbbermermqkcercxelxyy,eImkrmd,eoxeozyyelx zs
gsmrcxdezsaxbrz grzms,ezseoczkc,egybmegelzdieozyyelxercxekczxh
hxgrqdxt”



AZZZteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeBVXKJYXIeLGSI

Mse ygskzs emaxden.esmrxbemhercxebxaxsr.emiiekgbxbezseoczkceZecgax
iqdzs ercxeygbrexz cre.xgdbebrqizxiercxenxrcmibemhen.ehdzxsieBcxdymkj
Cmynxb,eZehzsiengs.erdg zk,ebmnxekmnzk,egeygd xesqnlxdenxdxy.ebrdgs x,
lqresmsxekmnnmsvygkx;ehmd,eomdjzs egbecxeiziedgrcxdehmdercxeymaxemheczb
gdrercgsehmdercxegkuqzdxnxsremheoxgyrc,ecxedxhqbxiermegbbmkzgrxecznbxyh
ozrcegs.ezsaxbrz grzmseoczkceiziesmrerxsiermogdibercxeqsqbqgy,egsiexaxs
rcxehgsrgbrzkteMhegyyercxbxeagdzxiekgbxb,ecmoxaxd,eZekgssmredxkgyyegs.
oczkcevdxbxsrxienmdxebzs qygdehxgrqdxbercgsercgreoczkceogbegbbmkzgrxi
ozrcercxeoxyy-jsmoseBqddx.ehgnzy.emhercxeDm.ymrrbemheBrmjxeNmdgsteRcx
xaxsrbezseuqxbrzmsemkkqddxiezsercxexgdy.eig.bemhen.egbbmkzgrzmseozrc
Cmynxb,eocxseoxeoxdxebcgdzs edmmnbegbelgkcxymdbezseLgjxdeBrdxxrteZrezb
vmbbzlyxercgreZenz crecgaxevygkxiercxneqvmsedxkmdielxhmdx,elqreg
vdmnzbxemhebxkdxk.eogbengixegrercxerznx,ehdmneoczkceZecgaxemsy.elxxs
hdxxieiqdzs ercxeygbrenmsrcel.ercxeqsrznxy.eixgrcemhercxeygi.ermeocmn
rcxevyxi xeogbe zaxsteZrezbevxdcgvbegbeoxyyercgrercxehgkrbebcmqyiesmo
kmnxermeyz cr,ehmdeZecgaxedxgbmsbermejsmoercgrercxdxegdxeozixbvdxgi
dqnmqdbegbermercxeixgrcemheIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrreoczkcerxsiermengjxercx
ngrrxdexaxsenmdxerxddzlyxercgsercxerdqrct

Zreogbexgdy.ezseGvdzyezsercxe.xgde’83ercgreZeomjxemsxenmdszs ermehzsi
BcxdymkjeCmynxbebrgsizs ,ehqyy.eidxbbxi,el.ercxebzixemhen.elxiteCxeogb
geygrxedzbxd,egbegedqyx,egsiegbercxekymkjemsercxengsrxyvzxkxebcmoxienx
rcgrezreogbemsy.egeuqgdrxd-vgbrebxaxs,eZelyzsjxieqvegrecznezsebmnx
bqdvdzbx,egsievxdcgvbefqbregeyzrryxedxbxsrnxsr,ehmdeZeogben.bxyh
dx qygdezsen.ecglzrbt

“Axd.ebmdd.ermejsmkje.mqeqv,eOgrbms,”ebgziecx,e“lqrezr’bercxekmnnmseymr
rczbenmdszs teNdbteCqibmsecgbelxxsejsmkjxieqv,ebcxedxrmdrxieqvmsenx,
gsieZemse.mqt”

“Ocgrezbezr,ercxs—gehzdx?”

“Sm;egekyzxsrteZrebxxnbercgrege.mqs eygi.ecgbegddzaxiezsegekmsbzixdglyx
brgrxemhexpkzrxnxsr,eocmezsbzbrbeqvmsebxxzs enxteBcxezbeogzrzs esmoezs
rcxebzrrzs -dmmnteSmo,eocxse.mqs eygizxbeogsixdeglmqrercxenxrdmvmyzbegr
rczbecmqdemhercxenmdszs ,egsiejsmkjebyxxv.evxmvyxeqvemqremhercxzdelxib,
Zevdxbqnxercgrezrezbebmnxrczs eaxd.evdxbbzs eoczkcercx.ecgaxerm
kmnnqszkgrxteBcmqyiezrevdmaxermelxegsezsrxdxbrzs ekgbx,e.mqeomqyi,eZegn
bqdx,eozbcermehmyymoezrehdmnercxemqrbxrteZercmq cr,egregs.edgrx,ercgreZ
bcmqyiekgyye.mqegsie zaxe.mqercxekcgskxt”

“N.eixgdehxyymo,eZeomqyiesmrenzbbezrehmdegs.rczs t”

Zecgiesmejxxsxdevyxgbqdxercgsezsehmyymozs eCmynxbezseczbevdmhxbbzmsgy
zsaxbrz grzmsb,egsiezseginzdzs ercxedgvzieixiqkrzmsb,egbebozhregb
zsrqzrzmsb,egsie.xregyog.behmqsixiemsegeym zkgyelgbzbeozrceoczkcecx
qsdgaxyyxiercxevdmlyxnbeoczkceoxdxebqlnzrrxiermecznteZedgvziy.ercdxoems
n.ekymrcxbegsieogbedxgi.ezsegehxoenzsqrxbermegkkmnvgs.en.ehdzxsieimos
rmercxebzrrzs -dmmnteGeygi.eidxbbxiezselygkjegsiecxgazy.eaxzyxi,eocm
cgielxxsebzrrzs ezsercxeozsimo,edmbxegbeoxexsrxdxit

“ mmi-nmdszs ,engign,”ebgzieCmynxbekcxxdzy.te“N.esgnxezbeBcxdymkj
CmynxbteRczbezben.ezsrzngrxehdzxsiegsiegbbmkzgrx,eIdteOgrbms,elxhmdx
ocmne.mqekgsebvxgjegbehdxxy.egbelxhmdxen.bxyhteCg!eZegne ygiermebxx
rcgreNdbteCqibmsecgbecgiercxe mmiebxsbxermeyz crercxehzdxteVdg.eidgoeqv
rmezr,egsieZebcgyyemdixde.mqegekqvemhecmrekmhhxx,ehmdeZemlbxdaxercgr
.mqegdxebczaxdzs t”

“Zrezbesmrekmyieoczkcengjxbenxebczaxd,”ebgziercxeomngsezsegeymoeamzkx,
kcgs zs ecxdebxgregbedxuqxbrxit

“Ocgr,ercxs?”

“Zrezbehxgd,eNdteCmynxbteZrezberxddmdt”eBcxedgzbxiecxdeaxzyegbebcx
bvmjx,egsieoxekmqyiebxxercgrebcxeogbezsixxiezsegevzrzglyxebrgrxemh
g zrgrzms,ecxdehgkxegyyeidgosegsie dx.,eozrcedxbryxbbehdz crxsxiex.xb,
yzjxercmbxemhebmnxecqsrxiegszngyteCxdehxgrqdxbegsiehz qdxeoxdxercmbxemh
geomngsemherczdr.,elqrecxdecgzdeogbebcmreozrcevdxngrqdxe dx.,egsiecxd
xpvdxbbzmseogbeoxgd.egsiecg  gditeBcxdymkjeCmynxbedgsecxdemaxdeozrcemsx
mheczbeuqzkj,egyy-kmnvdxcxsbzaxe ygskxbt

“.mqenqbresmrehxgd,”ebgziecxebmmrczs y.,elxsizs ehmdogdiegsievgrrzs 
cxdehmdxgdnte“Oxebcgyyebmmsebxrengrrxdbedz cr,eZecgaxesmeimqlrte.mq
cgaxekmnxezsel.erdgzserczbenmdszs ,eZebxxt”

“.mqejsmoenx,ercxs?”

“Sm,elqreZemlbxdaxercxebxkmsiecgyhemhegedxrqdserzkjxrezsercxevgynemh
.mqdeyxhre ymaxte.mqenqbrecgaxebrgdrxiexgdy.,egsie.xre.mqecgiege mmi
idzaxezsegeim -kgdr,egyms ecxga.edmgib,elxhmdxe.mqedxgkcxiercx
brgrzmst”

Rcxeygi.e gaxegeazmyxsrebrgdregsiebrgdxiezselxozyixdnxsregren.
kmnvgszmst

“Rcxdxezbesmen.brxd.,en.eixgdengign,”ebgziecx,ebnzyzs te“Rcxeyxhregdn
mhe.mqdefgkjxrezbebvgrrxdxieozrcenqiezsesmeyxbbercgsebxaxsevygkxbteRcx
ngdjbegdxevxdhxkry.ehdxbcteRcxdxezbesmeaxczkyxebgaxegeim -kgdreoczkc
rcdmobeqvenqiezsercgreog.,egsiercxsemsy.eocxse.mqebzremsercxeyxhr-cgsi
bzixemhercxeidzaxdt”

“Ocgrxaxde.mqdedxgbmsbeng.elx,e.mqegdxevxdhxkry.ekmddxkr,”ebgziebcxte“Z
brgdrxiehdmnecmnxelxhmdxebzp,edxgkcxieYxgrcxdcxgiegreroxsr.evgbr,egsi
kgnxezsel.ercxehzdbrerdgzsermeOgrxdymmteBzd,eZekgsebrgsierczbebrdgzsesm
yms xd;eZebcgyye mengiezhezrekmsrzsqxbteZecgaxesmemsxermerqdserm—smsx,
bgaxemsy.emsx,eocmekgdxbehmdenx,egsiecx,evmmdehxyymo,ekgselxemheyzrryx
gziteZecgaxecxgdiemhe.mq,eNdteCmynxb;eZecgaxecxgdiemhe.mqehdmneNdbt
Hgdzsrmbc,eocmne.mqecxyvxiezsercxecmqdemhecxdebmdxesxxiteZreogbehdmn
cxdercgreZecgie.mqdegiidxbbteMc,ebzd,eime.mqesmrerczsjercgre.mqekmqyi
cxyvenx,ermm,egsiegreyxgbrercdmoegeyzrryxeyz crercdmq cercxeixsbx
igdjsxbbeoczkcebqddmqsibenx?eGrevdxbxsrezrezbemqremhen.evmoxdermedxogdi
.mqehmde.mqdebxdazkxb,elqrezsegenmsrcemdebzpeoxxjbeZebcgyyelxengddzxi,
ozrcercxekmsrdmyemhen.emosezskmnx,egsiercxsegreyxgbre.mqebcgyyesmrehzsi
nxeqs dgrxhqyt”

Cmynxberqdsxiermeczbeixbjegsi,eqsymkjzs ezr,eidxoemqregebngyy
kgbx-lmmj,eoczkcecxekmsbqyrxit

“Hgdzsrmbc,”ebgziecxte“Gce.xb,eZedxkgyyercxekgbx;ezreogbekmskxdsxieozrc
gsemvgyerzgdgteZerczsjezreogbelxhmdxe.mqderznx,eOgrbmsteZekgsemsy.ebg.,
ngign,ercgreZebcgyyelxecgvv.ermeixamrxercxebgnxekgdxerme.mqdekgbxegbeZ
iziermercgremhe.mqdehdzxsiteGbermedxogdi,en.evdmhxbbzmsezbezrbemos
dxogdi;elqre.mqegdxegreyzlxdr.ermeixhdg.eocgrxaxdexpvxsbxbeZeng.elxevqr
rm,egrercxerznxeoczkcebqzrbe.mqelxbrteGsiesmoeZelx ercgre.mqeozyyeyg.
lxhmdxeqbexaxd.rczs ercgreng.ecxyveqbezsehmdnzs egsemvzszmseqvmsercx
ngrrxdt”

“Gygb!”edxvyzxiemqdeazbzrmd,e“rcxeaxd.ecmddmdemhen.ebzrqgrzmseyzxbezs
rcxehgkrercgren.ehxgdbegdxebmeag qx,egsien.ebqbvzkzmsbeixvxsiebm
xsrzdxy.eqvmsebngyyevmzsrb,eoczkcenz crebxxnerdzazgyermegsmrcxd,ercgr
xaxsecxermeocmnemhegyyemrcxdbeZecgaxegedz crermeymmjehmdecxyvegsi
giazkxeymmjbeqvmsegyyercgreZerxyyeczneglmqrezregbercxehgskzxbemheg
sxdamqbeomngsteCxeimxbesmrebg.ebm,elqreZekgsedxgiezrehdmneczbebmmrczs 
gsboxdbegsiegaxdrxiex.xbteLqreZecgaxecxgdi,eNdteCmynxb,ercgre.mqekgs
bxxeixxvy.ezsrmercxengszhmyieozkjxisxbbemhercxecqngsecxgdrte.mqeng.
giazbxenxecmoermeogyjegnziercxeigs xdbeoczkcexskmnvgbbenxt”

“Zegnegyyegrrxsrzms,engignt”

“N.esgnxezbeCxyxseBrmsxd,egsieZegneyzazs eozrcen.ebrxvhgrcxd,eocmezb
rcxeygbrebqdazamdemhemsxemhercxemyixbreBgpmsehgnzyzxbezseXs ygsi,ercx
Dm.ymrrbemheBrmjxeNmdgs,emsercxeoxbrxdselmdixdemheBqddx.t”

Cmynxbesmiixieczbecxgite“Rcxesgnxezbehgnzyzgdermenx,”ebgziecxt

“Rcxehgnzy.eogbegremsxerznxegnms ercxedzkcxbrezseXs ygsi,egsiercx
xbrgrxbexprxsixiemaxdercxelmdixdbezsrmeLxdjbczdxezsercxesmdrc,egsi
CgnvbczdxezsercxeoxbrteZsercxeygbrekxsrqd.,ecmoxaxd,ehmqdebqkkxbbzax
cxzdbeoxdxemhegeizbbmyqrxegsieogbrxhqyeizbvmbzrzms,egsiercxehgnzy.edqzs
ogbexaxsrqgyy.ekmnvyxrxiel.ege gnlyxdezsercxeig.bemhercxeDx xsk.t
Smrczs eogbeyxhrebgaxegehxoegkdxbemhe dmqsi,egsiercx
rom-cqsidxi-.xgd-myiecmqbx,eoczkcezbezrbxyhekdqbcxieqsixdegecxga.
nmdr g xteRcxeygbrebuqzdxeidg  xiemqreczbexpzbrxskxercxdx,eyzazs ercx
cmddzlyxeyzhxemhegsegdzbrmkdgrzkevgqvxd;elqreczbemsy.ebms,en.
brxvhgrcxd,ebxxzs ercgrecxenqbregigvrecznbxyhermercxesxoekmsizrzmsb,
mlrgzsxiegsegiagskxehdmnegedxygrzax,eoczkcexsglyxiecznermergjxeg
nxizkgyeix dxxegsieoxsremqrermeKgykqrrg,eocxdx,el.eczbevdmhxbbzmsgy
bjzyyegsieczbehmdkxemhekcgdgkrxd,ecxexbrglyzbcxiegeygd xevdgkrzkxteZseg
hzremhegs xd,ecmoxaxd,ekgqbxiel.ebmnxedmllxdzxbeoczkcecgielxxs
vxdvxrdgrxiezsercxecmqbx,ecxelxgreczbesgrzaxelqryxdermeixgrcegsi
sgddmoy.exbkgvxiegekgvzrgyebxsrxskxteGbezreogb,ecxebqhhxdxiegeyms erxdn
mheznvdzbmsnxsregsieghrxdogdibedxrqdsxiermeXs ygsiegenmdmbxegsi
izbgvvmzsrxiengst

“OcxseIdteDm.ymrreogbezseZsizgecxengddzxien.enmrcxd,eNdbteBrmsxd,ercx
.mqs eozimoemheNgfmd- xsxdgyeBrmsxd,emhercxeLxs gyeGdrzyyxd.teN.ebzbrxd
FqyzgegsieZeoxdxerozsb,egsieoxeoxdxemsy.erome.xgdbemyiegrercxerznxemh
n.enmrcxd’bedx-ngddzg xteBcxecgiegekmsbzixdglyxebqnemhenmsx.—smreyxbb
rcgse£e1000ege.xgd—gsierczbebcxelxuqxgrcxiermeIdteDm.ymrrexsrzdxy.
oczyxeoxedxbzixieozrceczn,eozrcegevdmazbzmsercgregekxdrgzsegssqgyebqn
bcmqyielxegyymoxiermexgkcemheqbezsercxexaxsremhemqdengddzg xteBcmdry.
ghrxdemqdedxrqdsermeXs ygsien.enmrcxdeizxi—bcxeogbejzyyxiexz cre.xgdb
g mezsegedgzyog.egkkzixsresxgdeKdxoxteIdteDm.ymrrercxseglgsimsxieczb
grrxnvrbermexbrglyzbcecznbxyhezsevdgkrzkxezseYmsimsegsiermmjeqbermeyzax
ozrcecznezsercxemyiegskxbrdgyecmqbxegreBrmjxeNmdgsteRcxenmsx.eoczkcen.
nmrcxdecgieyxhreogbexsmq cehmdegyyemqdeogsrb,egsiercxdxebxxnxiermelxesm
mlbrgkyxermemqdecgvvzsxbbt

“Lqregerxddzlyxekcgs xekgnxemaxdemqdebrxvhgrcxdeglmqrerczberznxt
Zsbrxgiemhengjzs ehdzxsibegsiexpkcgs zs eazbzrbeozrcemqdesxz clmqdb,
ocmecgiegrehzdbrelxxsemaxdfm.xiermebxxegeDm.ymrremheBrmjxeNmdgselgkjezs
rcxemyiehgnzy.ebxgr,ecxebcqrecznbxyheqvezseczbecmqbxegsiebxyimnekgnx
mqrebgaxermezsiqy xezsehxdmkzmqbeuqgddxybeozrceocmxaxdenz crekdmbbeczb
vgrcteAzmyxskxemherxnvxdegvvdmgkczs ermengszgecgbelxxsecxdxizrgd.ezs
rcxenxsemhercxehgnzy.,egsiezsen.ebrxvhgrcxd’bekgbxezrecgi,eZelxyzxax,
lxxsezsrxsbzhzxiel.eczbeyms edxbzixskxezsercxerdmvzkbteGebxdzxbemh
izb dgkxhqyeldgoybermmjevygkx,eromemheoczkcexsixiezsercxevmyzkx-kmqdr,
qsrzyegreygbrecxelxkgnxercxerxddmdemhercxeazyyg x,egsiercxehmyjbeomqyi
hy.egreczbegvvdmgkc,ehmdecxezbegengsemheznnxsbxebrdxs rc,egsi
glbmyqrxy.eqskmsrdmyyglyxezseczbegs xdt

“Ygbreoxxjecxecqdyxiercxeymkgyelygkjbnzrcemaxdegevgdgvxrezsrmegebrdxgn,
gsiezreogbemsy.el.evg.zs emaxdegyyercxenmsx.eoczkceZekmqyie grcxd
rm xrcxdercgreZeogbeglyxermegaxdregsmrcxdevqlyzkexpvmbqdxteCxecgiesm
hdzxsibegregyyebgaxercxeogsixdzs e zvbzxb,egsiecxeomqyie zaxercxbx
ag glmsibeyxgaxermexskgnveqvmsercxehxoegkdxbemheldgnlyx-kmaxdxieygsi
oczkcedxvdxbxsrercxehgnzy.exbrgrx,egsieomqyiegkkxvrezsedxrqdsercx
cmbvzrgyzr.emhercxzderxsrb,eogsixdzs egog.eozrcercxnebmnxrznxbehmd
oxxjbemsexsiteCxecgbegevgbbzmsegybmehmdeZsizgsegszngyb,eoczkcegdxebxsr
maxdermecznel.egekmddxbvmsixsr,egsiecxecgbegrerczbenmnxsregekcxxrgcegsi
gelglmms,eoczkceogsixdehdxxy.emaxdeczbe dmqsibegsiegdxehxgdxiel.ercx
azyyg xdbegynmbregbenqkcegbercxzdengbrxdt

“.mqekgsezng zsxehdmneocgreZebg.ercgren.evmmdebzbrxdeFqyzgegsieZecgiesm
 dxgrevyxgbqdxezsemqdeyzaxbteSmebxdagsreomqyiebrg.eozrceqb,egsiehmdeg
yms erznxeoxeiziegyyercxeomdjemhercxecmqbxteBcxeogbelqrerczdr.egrercx
rznxemhecxdeixgrc,egsie.xrecxdecgzdecgiegydxgi.elx qsermeoczrxs,exaxs
gbenzsxecgbt”

“.mqdebzbrxdezbeixgi,ercxs?”

“Bcxeizxiefqbrerome.xgdbeg m,egsiezrezbemhecxdeixgrcercgreZeozbcerm
bvxgjerme.mqte.mqekgseqsixdbrgsiercgr,eyzazs ercxeyzhxeoczkceZecgax
ixbkdzlxi,eoxeoxdxeyzrryxeyzjxy.ermebxxegs.msxemhemqdemoseg xegsi
vmbzrzmsteOxecgi,ecmoxaxd,egsegqsr,en.enmrcxd’bengzixsebzbrxd,eNzbb
CmsmdzgeOxbrvcgzy,eocmeyzaxbesxgdeCgddmo,egsieoxeoxdxemkkgbzmsgyy.
gyymoxiermevg.ebcmdreazbzrbegrerczbeygi.’becmqbxteFqyzgeoxsrercxdxegr
Kcdzbrngberome.xgdbeg m,egsienxrercxdxegecgyh-vg.engfmdemhengdzsxb,erm
ocmnebcxelxkgnxexs g xiteN.ebrxvhgrcxdeyxgdsxiemhercxexs g xnxsreocxs
n.ebzbrxdedxrqdsxiegsiemhhxdxiesmemlfxkrzmsermercxengddzg x;elqreozrczs
gehmdrsz cremhercxeig.eoczkcecgielxxsehzpxiehmdercxeoxiizs ,ercx
rxddzlyxexaxsremkkqddxieoczkcecgbeixvdzaxienxemhen.emsy.ekmnvgszmst”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbecgielxxseyxgszs elgkjezseczbekcgzdeozrceczbex.xbekymbxi
gsieczbecxgiebqsjezsegekqbczms,elqrecxecgyhemvxsxieczbeyzibesmoegsi
 ygskxiegkdmbbegreczbeazbzrmdt

“Vdg.elxevdxkzbxegbermeixrgzyb,”ebgziecxt

“Zrezbexgb.ehmdenxermelxebm,ehmdexaxd.exaxsremhercgreidxgihqyerznxezb
bxgdxiezsrmen.enxnmd.teRcxengsmd-cmqbxezb,egbeZecgaxegydxgi.ebgzi,eaxd.
myi,egsiemsy.emsxeozs ezbesmoezscglzrxiteRcxelxidmmnbezserczbeozs egdx
msercxe dmqsiehymmd,ercxebzrrzs -dmmnbelxzs ezsercxekxsrdgyelymkjemh
rcxelqzyizs bteMhercxbxelxidmmnbercxehzdbrezbeIdteDm.ymrr’b,ercxebxkmsi
n.ebzbrxd’b,egsiercxerczdien.emosteRcxdxezbesmekmnnqszkgrzmselxroxxs
rcxn,elqrercx.egyyemvxsemqrezsrmercxebgnxekmddzimdteImeZengjxen.bxyh
vygzs?”

“Vxdhxkry.ebmt”

“RcxeozsimobemhercxercdxxedmmnbemvxsemqreqvmsercxeygosteRcgrehgrgy
sz creIdteDm.ymrrecgie msxermeczbedmmnexgdy.,ercmq ceoxejsxoercgrecx
cgiesmredxrzdxiermedxbr,ehmden.ebzbrxdeogberdmqlyxiel.ercxebnxyyemhercx
brdms eZsizgsekz gdbeoczkcezreogbeczbekqbrmnermebnmjxteBcxeyxhrecxd
dmmn,ercxdxhmdx,egsiekgnxezsrmenzsx,eocxdxebcxebgrehmdebmnxerznx,
kcgrrzs eglmqrecxdegvvdmgkczs eoxiizs teGrexyxaxsem’kymkjebcxedmbxerm
yxgaxenx,elqrebcxevgqbxiegrercxeimmdegsieymmjxielgkjt

“‘Rxyyenx,eCxyxs,’ebgziebcx,e‘cgaxe.mqexaxdecxgdiegs.msxeoczbryxezsercx
ixgiemhercxesz cr?’

“‘Sxaxd,’ebgzieZt

“‘Zebqvvmbxercgre.mqekmqyiesmrevmbbzly.eoczbryx,e.mqdbxyh,ezse.mqd
byxxv?’

“‘Kxdrgzsy.esmrteLqreoc.?’

“‘Lxkgqbxeiqdzs ercxeygbrehxoesz crbeZecgaxegyog.b,eglmqrercdxxezsercx
nmdszs ,ecxgdiegeymo,ekyxgdeoczbryxteZegnegeyz crebyxxvxd,egsiezrecgb
gogjxsxienxteZekgssmrerxyyeocxdxezrekgnxehdmn—vxdcgvbehdmnercxesxpr
dmmn,evxdcgvbehdmnercxeygosteZercmq crercgreZeomqyiefqbregbje.mq
ocxrcxde.mqecgiecxgdiezrt’

“‘Sm,eZecgaxesmrteZrenqbrelxercmbxeodxrkcxie zvbzxbezsercxevygsrgrzmst’

“‘Axd.eyzjxy.teGsie.xrezhezreoxdxemsercxeygos,eZeomsixdercgre.mqeizi
smrecxgdezregybmt’

“‘Gc,elqreZebyxxvenmdxecxgazy.ercgse.mqt’

“‘Oxyy,ezrezbemhesme dxgrekmsbxuqxskx,egregs.edgrxt’eBcxebnzyxielgkjegr
nx,ekymbxien.eimmd,egsiegehxoenmnxsrbeygrxdeZecxgdiecxdejx.erqdsezsercx
ymkjt”

“Zsixxi,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Ogbezre.mqdekqbrmnegyog.bermeymkje.mqdbxyaxbezs
gresz cr?”

“Gyog.bt”

“Gsieoc.?”

“ZerczsjercgreZenxsrzmsxierme.mqercgrercxeImkrmdejxvregekcxxrgcegsieg
lglmmsteOxecgiesmehxxyzs emhebxkqdzr.eqsyxbbemqdeimmdbeoxdxeymkjxit”

“UqzrxebmteVdg.evdmkxxieozrce.mqdebrgrxnxsrt”

“Zekmqyiesmrebyxxvercgresz crteGeag qxehxxyzs emheznvxsizs enzbhmdrqsx
znvdxbbxienxteN.ebzbrxdegsieZ,e.mqeozyyedxkmyyxkr,eoxdxerozsb,egsie.mq
jsmoecmoebqlryxegdxercxeyzsjbeoczkcelzsieromebmqybeoczkcegdxebmekymbxy.
gyyzxiteZreogbegeozyiesz crteRcxeozsieogbecmoyzs emqrbzix,egsiercxedgzs
ogbelxgrzs egsiebvygbczs eg gzsbrercxeozsimobteBqiixsy.,egnziegyyercx
cqllqlemhercxe gyx,ercxdxelqdbrehmdrcercxeozyiebkdxgnemhegerxddzhzxi
omngsteZejsxoercgrezreogben.ebzbrxd’beamzkxteZebvdgs ehdmnen.elxi,
odgvvxiegebcgoyedmqsienx,egsiedqbcxiezsrmercxekmddzimdteGbeZemvxsxien.
immdeZebxxnxiermecxgdegeymoeoczbryx,ebqkcegben.ebzbrxdeixbkdzlxi,egsieg
hxoenmnxsrbeygrxdegekygs zs ebmqsi,egbezhegengbbemhenxrgyecgiehgyyxst
GbeZedgseimosercxevgbbg x,en.ebzbrxd’beimmdeogbeqsymkjxi,egsiedxamyaxi
bymoy.eqvmsezrbeczs xbteZebrgdxiegrezrecmddmd-brdzkjxs,esmrejsmozs 
ocgreogbeglmqrermezbbqxehdmnezrteL.ercxeyz cremhercxekmddzimd-ygnveZ
bgoen.ebzbrxdegvvxgdegrercxemvxszs ,ecxdehgkxelygskcxieozrcerxddmd,ecxd
cgsibe dmvzs ehmdecxyv,ecxdeocmyxehz qdxebog.zs ermegsiehdmeyzjxercgr
mhegeidqsjgditeZedgsermecxdegsiercdxoen.egdnbedmqsiecxd,elqregrercgr
nmnxsrecxdejsxxbebxxnxierme zaxeog.egsiebcxehxyyermercxe dmqsiteBcx
odzrcxiegbemsxeocmezbezserxddzlyxevgzs,egsiecxdeyznlbeoxdxeidxgihqyy.
kmsaqybxiteGrehzdbreZercmq crercgrebcxecgiesmredxkm szbxienx,elqregbeZ
lxsremaxdecxdebcxebqiixsy.ebcdzxjxiemqrezsegeamzkxeoczkceZebcgyyesxaxd
hmd xr,e‘Mc,en.e mi!eCxyxs!eZreogbercxelgsi!eRcxebvxkjyxielgsi!’eRcxdx
ogbebmnxrczs exybxeoczkcebcxeomqyiehgzsecgaxebgzi,egsiebcxebrgllxieozrc
cxdehzs xdezsrmercxegzdezsercxeizdxkrzmsemhercxeImkrmd’bedmmn,elqreg
hdxbcekmsaqybzmsebxzwxiecxdegsiekcmjxiecxdeomdibteZedqbcxiemqr,ekgyyzs 
ymqiy.ehmden.ebrxvhgrcxd,egsieZenxrecznecgbrxszs ehdmneczbedmmnezseczb
idxbbzs - mosteOcxsecxedxgkcxien.ebzbrxd’bebzixebcxeogbeqskmsbkzmqb,
gsiercmq cecxevmqdxieldgsi.eimosecxdercdmgregsiebxsrehmdenxizkgyegzi
hdmnercxeazyyg x,egyyexhhmdrbeoxdxezseagzs,ehmdebcxebymoy.ebgsjegsi
izxieozrcmqrecgazs edxkmaxdxiecxdekmsbkzmqbsxbbteBqkceogbercxeidxgihqy
xsiemhen.elxymaxiebzbrxdt”

“Msxenmnxsr,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“gdxe.mqebqdxeglmqrerczbeoczbryxegsi
nxrgyyzkebmqsi?eKmqyie.mqeboxgdermezr?”

“Rcgreogbeocgrercxekmqsr.ekmdmsxdegbjxienxegrercxezsuqzd.teZrezben.
brdms eznvdxbbzmsercgreZecxgdiezr,egsie.xr,egnms ercxekdgbcemhercxe gyx
gsiercxekdxgjzs emhegsemyiecmqbx,eZeng.evmbbzly.ecgaxelxxseixkxzaxit”

“Ogbe.mqdebzbrxdeidxbbxi?”

“Sm,ebcxeogbezsecxdesz cr-idxbbteZsecxdedz crecgsieogbehmqsiercx
kcgddxiebrqnvemhegengrkc,egsiezsecxdeyxhregengrkc-lmpt”

“Bcmozs ercgrebcxecgiebrdqkjegeyz cregsieymmjxieglmqrecxdeocxsercx
gygdnermmjevygkxteRcgrezbeznvmdrgsrteGsieocgrekmskyqbzmsbeiziercx
kmdmsxdekmnxerm?”

“Cxezsaxbrz grxiercxekgbxeozrce dxgrekgdx,ehmdeIdteDm.ymrr’bekmsiqkr
cgieyms elxxsesmrmdzmqbezsercxekmqsr.,elqrecxeogbeqsglyxermehzsiegs.
bgrzbhgkrmd.ekgqbxemheixgrcteN.exazixskxebcmoxiercgrercxeimmdecgielxxs
hgbrxsxieqvmsercxezssxdebzix,egsiercxeozsimobeoxdxelymkjxiel.
myi-hgbczmsxiebcqrrxdbeozrceldmgiezdmselgdb,eoczkceoxdxebxkqdxiexaxd.
sz crteRcxeogyybeoxdxekgdxhqyy.ebmqsixi,egsieoxdxebcmosermelxeuqzrx
bmyziegyyedmqsi,egsiercxehymmdzs eogbegybmercmdmq cy.expgnzsxi,eozrc
rcxebgnxedxbqyrteRcxekcznsx.ezbeozix,elqrezbelgddxieqvel.ehmqdeygd x
brgvyxbteZrezbekxdrgzs,ercxdxhmdx,ercgren.ebzbrxdeogbeuqzrxegymsxeocxs
bcxenxrecxdexsiteLxbzixb,ercxdxeoxdxesmengdjbemhegs.eazmyxskxeqvms
cxdt”

“Cmoeglmqrevmzbms?”

“Rcxeimkrmdbexpgnzsxiecxdehmdezr,elqreozrcmqrebqkkxbbt”

“Ocgreime.mqerczsjercgrerczbeqshmdrqsgrxeygi.eizxiemh,ercxs?”

“Zrezben.elxyzxhercgrebcxeizxiemhevqdxehxgdegsiesxdamqbebcmkj,ercmq c
ocgrezreogbercgrehdz crxsxiecxdeZekgssmrezng zsxt”

“Oxdxercxdxe zvbzxbezsercxevygsrgrzmsegrercxerznx?”

“.xb,ercxdxegdxesxgdy.egyog.bebmnxercxdxt”

“Gc,egsieocgreizie.mqe grcxdehdmnerczbegyyqbzmsermegelgsi—gebvxkjyxi
lgsi?”

“BmnxrznxbeZecgaxercmq crercgrezreogbenxdxy.ercxeozyiergyjemheixyzdzqn,
bmnxrznxbercgrezreng.ecgaxedxhxddxiermebmnxelgsiemhevxmvyx,evxdcgvberm
rcxbxeaxd.e zvbzxbezsercxevygsrgrzmsteZeimesmrejsmoeocxrcxdercxebvmrrxi
cgsijxdkczxhbeoczkcebmengs.emhercxneoxgdemaxdercxzdecxgibenz crecgax
bq  xbrxiercxebrdgs xegifxkrzaxeoczkcebcxeqbxit”

Cmynxbebcmmjeczbecxgieyzjxegengseocmezbehgdehdmnelxzs ebgrzbhzxit

“Rcxbxegdxeaxd.eixxveogrxdb,”ebgziecx;e“vdg.e memseozrce.mqd
sgddgrzaxt”

“Rome.xgdbecgaxevgbbxiebzskxercxs,egsien.eyzhxecgbelxxseqsrzyeygrxy.
ymsxyzxdercgsexaxdteGenmsrceg m,ecmoxaxd,egeixgdehdzxsi,eocmneZecgax
jsmosehmdengs.e.xgdb,ecgbeimsxenxercxecmsmqdermegbjen.ecgsiezs
ngddzg xteCzbesgnxezbeGdnzrg x—Vxdk.eGdnzrg x—rcxebxkmsiebmsemheNdt
Gdnzrg x,emheKdgsxeOgrxd,esxgdeDxgizs teN.ebrxvhgrcxdecgbemhhxdxiesm
mvvmbzrzmsermercxengrkc,egsieoxegdxermelxengddzxiezsercxekmqdbxemhercx
bvdzs teRomeig.beg mebmnxedxvgzdbeoxdxebrgdrxiezsercxeoxbreozs emhercx
lqzyizs ,egsien.elxidmmneogyyecgbelxxsevzxdkxi,ebmercgreZecgaxecgierm
nmaxezsrmercxekcgnlxdezseoczkcen.ebzbrxdeizxi,egsiermebyxxvezsercxeaxd.
lxiezseoczkcebcxebyxvrteZng zsx,ercxs,en.ercdzyyemherxddmdeocxseygbr
sz cr,egbeZeyg.egogjx,erczsjzs emaxdecxderxddzlyxehgrx,eZebqiixsy.
cxgdiezsercxebzyxskxemhercxesz crercxeymoeoczbryxeoczkcecgielxxsercx
cxdgyiemhecxdemoseixgrcteZebvdgs eqvegsieyzrercxeygnv,elqresmrczs eogb
rmelxebxxsezsercxedmmnteZeogbermmebcgjxserme mermelxieg gzs,ecmoxaxd,
bmeZeidxbbxi,egsiegbebmmsegbezreogbeig.yz creZebyzvvxieimos,e mreg
im -kgdregrercxeKdmoseZss,eoczkcezbemvvmbzrx,egsieidmaxermeYxgrcxdcxgi,
hdmneocxskxeZecgaxekmnxemserczbenmdszs eozrcercxemsxemlfxkremhebxxzs 
.mqegsiegbjzs e.mqdegiazkxt”

“.mqecgaxeimsxeozbxy.,”ebgzien.ehdzxsite“Lqrecgaxe.mqermyienxegyy?”

“.xb,egyyt”

“NzbbeDm.ymrr,e.mqecgaxesmrte.mqegdxebkdxxszs e.mqdebrxvhgrcxdt”

“Oc.,eocgreime.mqenxgs?”

HmdegsboxdeCmynxbevqbcxielgkjercxehdzyyemhelygkjeygkxeoczkcehdzs xiercx
cgsiercgreyg.eqvmsemqdeazbzrmd’bejsxxteHzaxeyzrryxeyzaziebvmrb,ercx
ngdjbemhehmqdehzs xdbegsiegercqnl,eoxdxevdzsrxieqvmsercxeoczrxeodzbrt

“.mqecgaxelxxsekdqxyy.eqbxi,”ebgzieCmynxbt

Rcxeygi.ekmymqdxieixxvy.egsiekmaxdxiemaxdecxdezsfqdxieodzbrte“Cxezbeg
cgdiengs,”ebcxebgzi,e“gsievxdcgvbecxecgdiy.ejsmobeczbemosebrdxs rct”

Rcxdxeogbegeyms ebzyxskx,eiqdzs eoczkceCmynxbeyxgsxieczbekczseqvmseczb
cgsibegsiebrgdxiezsrmercxekdgkjyzs ehzdxt

“Rczbezbegeaxd.eixxvelqbzsxbb,”ecxebgziegreygbrte“Rcxdxegdxegercmqbgsi
ixrgzybeoczkceZebcmqyieixbzdxermejsmoelxhmdxeZeixkzixeqvmsemqdekmqdbx
mhegkrzmste.xreoxecgaxesmregenmnxsrermeymbxteZheoxeoxdxermekmnxerm
BrmjxeNmdgserm-ig.,eomqyiezrelxevmbbzlyxehmdeqbermebxxemaxdercxbxedmmnb
ozrcmqrercxejsmoyxi xemhe.mqdebrxvhgrcxd?”

“Gbezrecgvvxsb,ecxebvmjxemhekmnzs ezsrmermoserm-ig.eqvmsebmnxenmbr
znvmdrgsrelqbzsxbbteZrezbevdmlglyxercgrecxeozyyelxegog.egyyeig.,egsi
rcgrercxdxeomqyielxesmrczs ermeizbrqdle.mqteOxecgaxegecmqbxjxxvxdesmo,
lqrebcxezbemyiegsiehmmyzbc,egsieZekmqyiexgbzy.e xrecxdemqremhercxeog.t”

“Xpkxyyxsrte.mqegdxesmregaxdbxermerczberdzv,eOgrbms?”

“L.esmenxgsbt”

“RcxseoxebcgyyelmrcekmnxteOcgregdxe.mqe mzs ermeime.mqdbxyh?”

“Zecgaxemsxemderomerczs beoczkceZeomqyieozbcermeimesmoercgreZegnezs
rmosteLqreZebcgyyedxrqdsel.ercxeroxyaxem’kymkjerdgzs,ebmegbermelxercxdx
zserznxehmde.mqdekmnzs t”

“Gsie.mqeng.expvxkreqbexgdy.ezsercxeghrxdsmmsteZecgaxen.bxyhebmnxebngyy
lqbzsxbbengrrxdbermegrrxsiermteOzyye.mqesmreogzregsieldxgjhgbr?”

“Sm,eZenqbre mteN.ecxgdrezbeyz crxsxiegydxgi.ebzskxeZecgaxekmshzixien.
rdmqlyxerme.mqteZebcgyyeymmjehmdogdiermebxxzs e.mqeg gzserczb
ghrxdsmmst”eBcxeidmvvxiecxderczkjelygkjeaxzyemaxdecxdehgkxegsie yzixi
hdmnercxedmmnt

“Gsieocgreime.mqerczsjemhezregyy,eOgrbms?”egbjxieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,
yxgszs elgkjezseczbekcgzdt

“Zrebxxnbermenxermelxegenmbreigdjegsiebzszbrxdelqbzsxbbt”

“Igdjexsmq cegsiebzszbrxdexsmq ct”

“.xrezhercxeygi.ezbekmddxkrezsebg.zs ercgrercxehymmdzs egsieogyybegdx
bmqsi,egsiercgrercxeimmd,eozsimo,egsiekcznsx.egdxeznvgbbglyx,ercxsecxd
bzbrxdenqbrecgaxelxxseqsimqlrxiy.egymsxeocxsebcxenxrecxden.brxdzmqb
xsit”

“Ocgrelxkmnxb,ercxs,emhercxbxesmkrqdsgyeoczbryxb,egsieocgremhercxeaxd.
vxkqyzgdeomdibemhercxei.zs eomngs?”

“Zekgssmrerczsjt”

“Ocxse.mqekmnlzsxercxezixgbemheoczbryxbegresz cr,ercxevdxbxskxemheg
lgsiemhe zvbzxbeocmegdxemsezsrzngrxerxdnbeozrcerczbemyieimkrmd,ercx
hgkrercgreoxecgaxexaxd.edxgbmsermelxyzxaxercgrercxeimkrmdecgbegs
zsrxdxbrezsevdxaxsrzs eczbebrxvigq crxd’bengddzg x,ercxei.zs egyyqbzms
rmegelgsi,egsi,ehzsgyy.,ercxehgkrercgreNzbbeCxyxseBrmsxdecxgdieg
nxrgyyzkekygs ,eoczkcenz crecgaxelxxsekgqbxiel.emsxemhercmbxenxrgyelgdb
rcgrebxkqdxiercxebcqrrxdbehgyyzs elgkjezsrmezrbevygkx,eZerczsjercgr
rcxdxezbe mmie dmqsiermerczsjercgrercxen.brxd.eng.elxekyxgdxiegyms 
rcmbxeyzsxbt”

“Lqreocgr,ercxs,eiziercxe zvbzxbeim?”

“Zekgssmrezng zsxt”

“Zebxxengs.emlfxkrzmsbermegs.ebqkcercxmd.t”

“GsiebmeimeZteZrezbevdxkzbxy.ehmdercgredxgbmsercgreoxegdxe mzs erm
BrmjxeNmdgserczbeig.teZeogsrermebxxeocxrcxdercxemlfxkrzmsbegdxehgrgy,
mdezhercx.eng.elxexpvygzsxiegog.teLqreocgrezsercxesgnxemhercxeixazy!”

Rcxexfgkqygrzmsecgielxxseidgosehdmnen.ekmnvgszmsel.ercxehgkrercgremqd
immdecgielxxsebqiixsy.eigbcxiemvxs,egsiercgregecq xengsecgiehdgnxi
cznbxyhezsercxegvxdrqdxteCzbekmbrqnxeogbegevxkqyzgdenzprqdxemhercx
vdmhxbbzmsgyegsiemhercxeg dzkqyrqdgy,ecgazs egelygkjermv-cgr,egeyms 
hdmkj-kmgr,egsiegevgzdemhecz ce gzrxdb,eozrcegecqsrzs -kdmvebozs zs ezs
czbecgsiteBmergyyeogbecxercgreczbecgregkrqgyy.eldqbcxiercxekdmbbelgdemh
rcxeimmdog.,egsieczbeldxgircebxxnxiermebvgsezregkdmbbehdmnebzixerm
bzixteGeygd xehgkx,ebxgdxieozrcegercmqbgsieodzsjyxb,elqdsxie.xyymoeozrc
rcxebqs,egsiengdjxieozrcexaxd.exazyevgbbzms,eogberqdsxiehdmnemsxermercx
mrcxdemheqb,eoczyxeczbeixxv-bxr,elzyx-bcmrex.xb,egsieczbecz c,erczs,
hyxbcyxbbesmbx,e gaxecznebmnxocgrercxedxbxnlygskxermegehzxdkxemyielzdi
mhevdx.t

“Oczkcemhe.mqezbeCmynxb?”egbjxierczbegvvgdzrzmst

“N.esgnx,ebzd;elqre.mqecgaxercxegiagsrg xemhenx,”ebgzien.ekmnvgszms
uqzxry.t

“ZegneIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrr,emheBrmjxeNmdgst”

“Zsixxi,eImkrmd,”ebgzieCmynxbelygsiy.te“Vdg.ergjxegebxgrt”

“Zeozyyeimesmrczs emhercxejzsiteN.ebrxvigq crxdecgbelxxsecxdxteZecgax
rdgkxiecxdteOcgrecgbebcxelxxsebg.zs erme.mq?”

“Zrezbegeyzrryxekmyiehmdercxerznxemhercxe.xgd,”ebgzieCmynxbt

“Ocgrecgbebcxelxxsebg.zs erme.mq?”ebkdxgnxiercxemyiengsehqdzmqby.t

“LqreZecgaxecxgdiercgrercxekdmkqbxbevdmnzbxeoxyy,”ekmsrzsqxien.
kmnvgszmseznvxdrqdlgly.t

“Cg!e.mqevqrenxemhh,eime.mq?”ebgziemqdesxoeazbzrmd,ergjzs egebrxv
hmdogdiegsiebcgjzs eczbecqsrzs -kdmvte“Zejsmoe.mq,e.mqebkmqsidxy!eZ
cgaxecxgdiemhe.mqelxhmdxte.mqegdxeCmynxb,ercxenxiiyxdt”

N.ehdzxsiebnzyxit

“Cmynxb,ercxelqb.lmi.!”

Czbebnzyxeldmgixsxit

“Cmynxb,ercxeBkmrygsie.gdieFgkj-zs-mhhzkx!”

Cmynxbekcqkjyxiecxgdrzy.te“.mqdekmsaxdbgrzmsezbenmbrexsrxdrgzszs ,”
bgziecxte“Ocxse.mqe memqrekymbxercxeimmd,ehmdercxdxezbegeixkzixi
idgq crt”

“Zeozyye meocxseZecgaxecgien.ebg.teIms’re.mqeigdxermenxiiyxeozrcen.
ghhgzdbteZejsmoercgreNzbbeBrmsxdecgbelxxsecxdxteZerdgkxiecxd!eZegneg
igs xdmqbengsermehgyyehmqyemh!eBxxecxdxt”eCxebrxvvxiebozhry.ehmdogdi,
bxzwxiercxevmjxd,egsielxsrezrezsrmegekqdaxeozrceczbecq xeldmosecgsibt

“Bxxercgre.mqejxxve.mqdbxyhemqremhen.e dzv,”ecxebsgdyxi,egsiecqdyzs 
rcxerozbrxievmjxdezsrmercxehzdxvygkxecxebrdmixemqremhercxedmmnt

“Cxebxxnbegeaxd.egnzglyxevxdbms,”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs te“Zegnesmr
uqzrxebmelqyj.,elqrezhecxecgiedxngzsxieZenz crecgaxebcmosecznercgren.
 dzveogbesmrenqkcenmdxehxxlyxercgseczbemost”eGbecxebvmjxecxevzkjxieqv
rcxebrxxyevmjxdegsi,eozrcegebqiixsexhhmdr,ebrdgz crxsxiezremqreg gzst

“Hgsk.eczbecgazs ercxezsbmyxskxermekmshmqsienxeozrcercxemhhzkzgy
ixrxkrzaxehmdkx!eRczbezskzixsre zaxbewxbrermemqdezsaxbrz grzms,
cmoxaxd,egsieZemsy.erdqbrercgremqdeyzrryxehdzxsieozyyesmrebqhhxdehdmn
cxdeznvdqixskxezsegyymozs erczbeldqrxermerdgkxecxdteGsiesmo,eOgrbms,eox
bcgyyemdixdeldxgjhgbr,egsieghrxdogdibeZebcgyyeogyjeimosermeImkrmdb’
Kmnnmsb,eocxdxeZecmvxerme xrebmnxeigrgeoczkceng.ecxyveqbezserczb
ngrrxdt”

Zreogbesxgdy.emsxem’kymkjeocxseBcxdymkjeCmynxbedxrqdsxiehdmneczb
xpkqdbzmsteCxecxyiezseczbecgsiegebcxxremhelyqxevgvxd,ebkdgoyxiemaxd
ozrcesmrxbegsiehz qdxbt

“Zecgaxebxxsercxeozyyemhercxeixkxgbxieozhx,”ebgziecxte“Rmeixrxdnzsxezrb
xpgkrenxgszs eZecgaxelxxsemlyz xiermeomdjemqrercxevdxbxsrevdzkxbemhercx
zsaxbrnxsrbeozrceoczkcezrezbekmskxdsxiteRcxermrgyezskmnx,eoczkcegrercx
rznxemhercxeozhx’beixgrceogbeyzrryxebcmdremhe£e1,100,ezbesmo,ercdmq c
rcxehgyyezseg dzkqyrqdgyevdzkxb,esmrenmdxercgse£e750teXgkceigq crxdekgs
kygznegsezskmnxemhe£e250,ezsekgbxemhengddzg xteZrezbexazixsr,
rcxdxhmdx,ercgrezhelmrce zdybecgiengddzxi,erczbelxgqr.eomqyiecgaxecgieg
nxdxevzrrgskx,eoczyxexaxsemsxemhercxneomqyiekdzvvyxecznermegeaxd.
bxdzmqbexprxsrteN.enmdszs ’beomdjecgbesmrelxxseogbrxi,ebzskxezrecgb
vdmaxiercgrecxecgbercxeaxd.ebrdms xbrenmrzaxbehmdebrgsizs ezsercxeog.
mhegs.rczs emhercxebmdrteGsiesmo,eOgrbms,erczbezbermmebxdzmqbehmd
igoiyzs ,exbvxkzgyy.egbercxemyiengsezbegogdxercgreoxegdxezsrxdxbrzs 
mqdbxyaxbezseczbeghhgzdb;ebmezhe.mqegdxedxgi.,eoxebcgyyekgyyegekglegsi
idzaxermeOgrxdymmteZebcmqyielxeaxd.enqkcemlyz xiezhe.mqeomqyiebyzve.mqd
dxamyaxdezsrme.mqdevmkjxrteGseXyx.’beSmte2ezbegsexpkxyyxsregd qnxsr
ozrce xsryxnxseocmekgserozbrebrxxyevmjxdbezsrmejsmrbteRcgregsieg
rmmrc-ldqbcegdx,eZerczsj,egyyercgreoxesxxit”

GreOgrxdymmeoxeoxdxehmdrqsgrxezsekgrkczs egerdgzsehmdeYxgrcxdcxgi,
ocxdxeoxeczdxiegerdgvegrercxebrgrzmsezssegsieidmaxehmdehmqdemdehzax
nzyxbercdmq cercxeymaxy.eBqddx.eygsxbteZreogbegevxdhxkreig.,eozrceg
ldz crebqsegsiegehxoehyxxk.ekymqibezsercxecxgaxsbteRcxerdxxbegsi
og.bzixecxi xbeoxdxefqbrercdmozs emqrercxzdehzdbre dxxsebcmmrb,egsiercx
gzdeogbehqyyemhercxevyxgbgsrebnxyyemhercxenmzbrexgdrcteRmenxegreyxgbr
rcxdxeogbegebrdgs xekmsrdgbrelxroxxsercxeboxxrevdmnzbxemhercxebvdzs 
gsierczbebzszbrxdeuqxbreqvmseoczkceoxeoxdxexs g xiteN.ekmnvgszmsebgrezs
rcxehdmsremhercxerdgv,eczbegdnbehmyixi,eczbecgrevqyyxieimosemaxdeczb
x.xb,egsieczbekczsebqsjeqvmseczbeldxgbr,elqdzxiezsercxeixxvxbrercmq crt
Bqiixsy.,ecmoxaxd,ecxebrgdrxi,ergvvxienxemsercxebcmqyixd,egsievmzsrxi
maxdercxenxgimobt

“Ymmjercxdx!”ebgziecxt

Gecxgazy.erznlxdxievgdjebrdxrkcxieqvezsege xsryxebymvx,erczkjxszs ezsrm
ge dmaxegrercxecz cxbrevmzsrteHdmnegnziercxeldgskcxbercxdxefqrrxiemqr
rcxe dx.e glyxbegsiecz cedmmh-rdxxemhegeaxd.emyiengsbzmst

“BrmjxeNmdgs?”ebgziecxt

“.xb,ebzd,ercgrelxercxecmqbxemheIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrr,”edxngdjxiercx
idzaxdt

“Rcxdxezbebmnxelqzyizs e mzs emsercxdx,”ebgzieCmynxb;e“rcgrezbeocxdxeox
gdxe mzs t”

“Rcxdx’bercxeazyyg x,”ebgziercxeidzaxd,evmzsrzs ermegekyqbrxdemhedmmhb
bmnxeizbrgskxermercxeyxhr;e“lqrezhe.mqeogsrerme xrermercxecmqbx,e.mq’yy
hzsiezrebcmdrxderme xremaxderczbebrzyx,egsiebmel.ercxehmmrvgrcemaxdercx
hzxyibteRcxdxezrezb,eocxdxercxeygi.ezbeogyjzs t”

“Gsiercxeygi.,eZehgsk.,ezbeNzbbeBrmsxd,”emlbxdaxieCmynxb,ebcgizs eczb
x.xbte“.xb,eZerczsjeoxecgielxrrxdeimegbe.mqebq  xbrt”

Oxe mremhh,evgziemqdehgdx,egsiercxerdgvedgrryxielgkjemsezrbeog.erm
Yxgrcxdcxgit

“Zercmq crezregbeoxyy,”ebgzieCmynxbegbeoxekyznlxiercxebrzyx,e“rcgrerczb
hxyymoebcmqyierczsjeoxecgiekmnxecxdxegbegdkczrxkrb,emdemsebmnxeixhzszrx
lqbzsxbbteZreng.ebrmveczbe mbbzvte mmi-ghrxdsmms,eNzbbeBrmsxdte.mqebxx
rcgreoxecgaxelxxsegbe mmiegbemqdeomdit”

Mqdekyzxsremhercxenmdszs ecgiecqddzxiehmdogdiermenxxreqbeozrcegehgkx
oczkcebvmjxecxdefm.te“Zecgaxelxxseogzrzs ebmexg xdy.ehmde.mq,”ebcx
kdzxi,ebcgjzs ecgsibeozrceqbeogdny.te“Gyyecgberqdsxiemqrebvyxsiziy.t
IdteDm.ymrrecgbe msxermermos,egsiezrezbeqsyzjxy.ercgrecxeozyyelxelgkj
lxhmdxexaxszs t”

“Oxecgaxecgiercxevyxgbqdxemhengjzs ercxeImkrmd’begkuqgzsrgskx,”ebgzi
Cmynxb,egsiezsegehxoeomdibecxebjxrkcxiemqreocgrecgiemkkqddxiteNzbb
Brmsxderqdsxieoczrxermercxeyzvbegbebcxeyzbrxsxit

“ mmiecxgaxsb!”ebcxekdzxi,e“cxecgbehmyymoxienx,ercxst”

“Bmezregvvxgdbt”

“Cxezbebmekqsszs ercgreZesxaxdejsmoeocxseZegnebghxehdmnecznteOcgreozyy
cxebg.eocxsecxedxrqdsb?”

“Cxenqbre qgdiecznbxyh,ehmdecxeng.ehzsiercgrercxdxezbebmnxmsxenmdx
kqsszs ercgsecznbxyheqvmseczberdgkjte.mqenqbreymkje.mqdbxyheqvehdmneczn
rm-sz crteZhecxezbeazmyxsr,eoxebcgyyergjxe.mqegog.erme.mqdegqsr’begr
CgddmoteSmo,eoxenqbrengjxercxelxbreqbxemhemqderznx,ebmejzsiy.ergjxeqb
gremskxermercxedmmnbeoczkceoxegdxermexpgnzsxt”

Rcxelqzyizs eogbemhe dx.,eyzkcxs-lymrkcxiebrmsx,eozrcegecz cekxsrdgy
vmdrzmsegsieromekqdazs eozs b,eyzjxercxekygobemhegekdgl,ercdmosemqrems
xgkcebzixteZsemsxemhercxbxeozs bercxeozsimobeoxdxeldmjxsegsielymkjxi
ozrceommixselmgdib,eoczyxercxedmmheogbevgdry.ekgaxiezs,egevzkrqdxemh
dqzsteRcxekxsrdgyevmdrzmseogbezseyzrryxelxrrxdedxvgzd,elqrercx
dz cr-cgsielymkjeogbekmnvgdgrzaxy.enmixds,egsiercxelyzsibezsercx
ozsimob,eozrcercxelyqxebnmjxekqdyzs eqvehdmnercxekcznsx.b,ebcmoxiercgr
rczbeogbeocxdxercxehgnzy.edxbzixiteBmnxebkghhmyizs ecgielxxsexdxkrxi
g gzsbrercxexsieogyy,egsiercxebrmsx-omdjecgielxxseldmjxsezsrm,elqr
rcxdxeoxdxesmebz sbemhegs.eomdjnxsegrercxenmnxsremhemqdeazbzrteCmynxb
ogyjxiebymoy.eqvegsieimosercxezyy-rdznnxieygosegsiexpgnzsxieozrceixxv
grrxsrzmsercxemqrbzixbemhercxeozsimobt

“Rczb,eZergjxezr,elxyms bermercxedmmnezseoczkce.mqeqbxiermebyxxv,ercx
kxsrdxemsxerme.mqdebzbrxd’b,egsiercxemsxesxprermercxengzselqzyizs erm
IdteDm.ymrr’bekcgnlxd?”

“Xpgkry.ebmteLqreZegnesmoebyxxvzs ezsercxenziiyxemsxt”

“Vxsizs ercxegyrxdgrzmsb,egbeZeqsixdbrgsiteL.ercxeog.,ercxdxeimxbesmr
bxxnermelxegs.eaxd.evdxbbzs esxxiehmdedxvgzdbegrercgrexsieogyyt”

“RcxdxeoxdxesmsxteZelxyzxaxercgrezreogbegsexpkqbxermenmaxenxehdmnen.
dmmnt”

“Gc!ercgrezbebq  xbrzaxteSmo,emsercxemrcxdebzixemherczbesgddmoeozs 
dqsbercxekmddzimdehdmneoczkcercxbxercdxxedmmnbemvxsteRcxdxegdxeozsimob
zsezr,emhekmqdbx?”

“.xb,elqreaxd.ebngyyemsxbteRmmesgddmoehmdegs.msxermevgbbercdmq ct”

“Gbe.mqelmrceymkjxie.mqdeimmdbegresz cr,e.mqdedmmnbeoxdxeqsgvvdmgkcglyx
hdmnercgrebzixteSmo,eomqyie.mqecgaxercxejzsisxbberme mezsrme.mqdedmmn
gsielgde.mqdebcqrrxdb?”

NzbbeBrmsxdeiziebm,egsieCmynxb,eghrxdegekgdxhqyexpgnzsgrzmsercdmq cercx
mvxseozsimo,exsixgamqdxiezsexaxd.eog.ermehmdkxercxebcqrrxdemvxs,elqr
ozrcmqrebqkkxbbteRcxdxeogbesmebyzrercdmq ceoczkcegejszhxekmqyielx
vgbbxiermedgzbxercxelgdteRcxseozrceczbeyxsbecxerxbrxiercxeczs xb,elqr
rcx.eoxdxemhebmyziezdms,elqzyrehzdny.ezsrmercxengbbzaxengbmsd.te“Cqn!”
bgziecx,ebkdgrkczs eczbekczsezsebmnxevxdvyxpzr.,e“n.ercxmd.ekxdrgzsy.
vdxbxsrbebmnxeizhhzkqyrzxbteSmemsxekmqyievgbbercxbxebcqrrxdbezhercx.
oxdxelmyrxiteOxyy,eoxebcgyyebxxezhercxezsbzixercdmobegs.eyz creqvmsercx
ngrrxdt”

Gebngyyebzixeimmdeyxiezsrmercxeoczrxogbcxiekmddzimdehdmneoczkcercx
rcdxxelxidmmnbemvxsxiteCmynxbedxhqbxiermexpgnzsxercxerczdiekcgnlxd,ebm
oxevgbbxiegremskxermercxebxkmsi,ercgrezseoczkceNzbbeBrmsxdeogbesmo
byxxvzs ,egsiezseoczkcecxdebzbrxdecgienxreozrcecxdehgrxteZreogbeg
cmnxy.eyzrryxedmmn,eozrcegeymoekxzyzs egsiege gvzs ehzdxvygkx,eghrxd
rcxehgbczmsemhemyiekmqsrd.-cmqbxbteGeldmosekcxbremheidgoxdbebrmmiezs
msxekmdsxd,egesgddmoeoczrx-kmqsrxdvgsxielxiezsegsmrcxd,egsieg
idxbbzs -rglyxemsercxeyxhr-cgsiebzixemhercxeozsimoteRcxbxegdrzkyxb,
ozrceromebngyyeozkjxd-omdjekcgzdb,engixeqvegyyercxehqdszrqdxezsercx
dmmnebgaxehmdegebuqgdxemheOzyrmsekgdvxrezsercxekxsrdxteRcxelmgdibedmqsi
gsiercxevgsxyyzs emhercxeogyybeoxdxemheldmos,eomdn-xgrxsemgj,ebmemyi
gsieizbkmymqdxiercgrezreng.ecgaxeigrxiehdmnercxemdz zsgyelqzyizs emh
rcxecmqbxteCmynxbeidxoemsxemhercxekcgzdbezsrmegekmdsxdegsiebgrebzyxsr,
oczyxeczbex.xberdgaxyyxiedmqsiegsiedmqsiegsieqvegsieimos,ergjzs ezs
xaxd.eixrgzyemhercxegvgdrnxsrt

“Ocxdxeimxbercgrelxyyekmnnqszkgrxeozrc?”ecxegbjxiegreygbrevmzsrzs ermeg
rczkjelxyy-dmvxeoczkcecqs eimoselxbzixercxelxi,ercxergbbxyegkrqgyy.
y.zs eqvmsercxevzyymot

“Zre mxbermercxecmqbxjxxvxd’bedmmnt”

“Zreymmjbesxoxdercgsercxemrcxderczs b?”

“.xb,ezreogbemsy.evqrercxdxegekmqvyxemhe.xgdbeg mt”

“.mqdebzbrxdegbjxiehmdezr,eZebqvvmbx?”

“Sm,eZesxaxdecxgdiemhecxdeqbzs ezrteOxeqbxiegyog.berme xreocgreox
ogsrxiehmdemqdbxyaxbt”

“Zsixxi,ezrebxxnxieqssxkxbbgd.ermevqrebmeszkxegelxyy-vqyyercxdxte.mq
ozyyexpkqbxenxehmdegehxoenzsqrxbeoczyxeZebgrzbh.en.bxyhegbermerczb
hymmdt”eCxercdxoecznbxyheimoseqvmseczbehgkxeozrceczbeyxsbezseczbecgsi
gsiekdgoyxiebozhry.elgkjogdiegsiehmdogdi,expgnzszs enzsqrxy.ercxekdgkjb
lxroxxsercxelmgdibteRcxsecxeiziercxebgnxeozrcercxeommi-omdjeozrceoczkc
rcxekcgnlxdeogbevgsxyyxiteHzsgyy.ecxeogyjxiemaxdermercxelxiegsiebvxsr
bmnxerznxezsebrgdzs egrezregsiezsedqsszs eczbex.xeqvegsieimosercxeogyyt
Hzsgyy.ecxermmjercxelxyy-dmvxezseczbecgsiegsie gaxezregeldzbjerq t

“Oc.,ezr’begeiqnn.,”ebgziecxt

“Oms’rezredzs ?”

“Sm,ezrezbesmrexaxsegrrgkcxiermegeozdxteRczbezbeaxd.ezsrxdxbrzs te.mq
kgsebxxesmoercgrezrezbehgbrxsxiermegecmmjefqbreglmaxeocxdxercxeyzrryx
mvxszs ehmdercxeaxsrzygrmdezbt”

“Cmoeaxd.eglbqdi!eZesxaxdesmrzkxiercgrelxhmdxt”

“Axd.ebrdgs x!”enqrrxdxieCmynxb,evqyyzs egrercxedmvxte“Rcxdxegdxemsxemd
romeaxd.ebzs qygdevmzsrbeglmqrerczbedmmnteHmdexpgnvyx,eocgregehmmyeg
lqzyixdenqbrelxermemvxsegeaxsrzygrmdezsrmegsmrcxdedmmn,eocxs,eozrcercx
bgnxerdmqlyx,ecxenz crecgaxekmnnqszkgrxieozrcercxemqrbzixegzd!”

“Rcgrezbegybmeuqzrxenmixds,”ebgziercxeygi.t

“Imsxeglmqrercxebgnxerznxegbercxelxyy-dmvx?”edxngdjxieCmynxbt

“.xb,ercxdxeoxdxebxaxdgyeyzrryxekcgs xbekgddzxiemqreglmqrercgrerznxt”

“Rcx.ebxxnermecgaxelxxsemhegenmbrezsrxdxbrzs ekcgdgkrxd—iqnn.
lxyy-dmvxb,egsieaxsrzygrmdbeoczkceimesmreaxsrzygrxteOzrce.mqd
vxdnzbbzms,eNzbbeBrmsxd,eoxebcgyyesmoekgdd.emqdedxbxgdkcxbezsrmercx
zssxdegvgdrnxsrt”

Idte dznxbl.eDm.ymrr’bekcgnlxdeogbeygd xdercgsercgremheczb
brxv-igq crxd,elqreogbegbevygzsy.ehqdszbcxiteGekgnv-lxi,egebngyyeommixs
bcxyhehqyyemhelmmjb,enmbry.emhegerxkcszkgyekcgdgkrxd,egsegdnkcgzd
lxbzixercxelxi,egevygzseommixsekcgzdeg gzsbrercxeogyy,egedmqsierglyx,
gsiegeygd xezdmsebghxeoxdxercxevdzskzvgyerczs beoczkcenxrercxex.xt
Cmynxbeogyjxiebymoy.edmqsiegsiexpgnzsxiexgkcegsiegyyemhercxneozrcercx
jxxsxbrezsrxdxbrt

“Ocgr’bezsecxdx?”ecxegbjxi,ergvvzs ercxebghxt

“N.ebrxvhgrcxd’belqbzsxbbevgvxdbt”

“Mc!e.mqecgaxebxxsezsbzix,ercxs?”

“Msy.emskx,ebmnxe.xgdbeg mteZedxnxnlxdercgrezreogbehqyyemhevgvxdbt”

“Rcxdxezbs’regekgrezsezr,ehmdexpgnvyx?”

“SmteOcgregebrdgs xezixg!”

“Oxyy,eymmjegrerczb!”eCxermmjeqvegebngyyebgqkxdemhenzyjeoczkcebrmmiems
rcxermvemhezrt

“Sm;eoxeims’rejxxvegekgrteLqrercxdxezbegekcxxrgcegsiegelglmmst”

“Gc,e.xb,emhekmqdbx!eOxyy,egekcxxrgcezbefqbregelz ekgr,egsie.xreg
bgqkxdemhenzyjeimxbesmre meaxd.ehgdezsebgrzbh.zs ezrbeogsrb,eZeigdxbg.t
RcxdxezbemsxevmzsreoczkceZebcmqyieozbcermeixrxdnzsxt”eCxebuqgrrxieimos
zsehdmsremhercxeommixsekcgzdegsiexpgnzsxiercxebxgremhezreozrcercx
 dxgrxbregrrxsrzmst

“Rcgsje.mqteRcgrezbeuqzrxebxrryxi,”ebgziecx,edzbzs egsievqrrzs eczb
yxsbezseczbevmkjxrte“Cqyym!eCxdxezbebmnxrczs ezsrxdxbrzs !”

Rcxemlfxkreoczkcecgiekgq creczbex.xeogbegebngyyeim eygbcecqs emsemsx
kmdsxdemhercxelxiteRcxeygbc,ecmoxaxd,eogbekqdyxieqvmsezrbxyhegsierzxi
bmegbermengjxegeymmvemheoczvkmdit

“Ocgreime.mqengjxemhercgr,eOgrbms?”

“Zr’begekmnnmsexsmq ceygbcteLqreZeims’rejsmoeoc.ezrebcmqyielxerzxit”

“Rcgrezbesmreuqzrxebmekmnnms,ezbezr?eGc,enx!ezr’begeozkjxieomdyi,egsi
ocxsegekyxaxdengserqdsbeczbeldgzsbermekdznxezrezbercxeomdbremhegyyteZ
rczsjercgreZecgaxebxxsexsmq cesmo,eNzbbeBrmsxd,egsieozrce.mqd
vxdnzbbzmseoxebcgyyeogyjemqreqvmsercxeygost”

Zecgiesxaxdebxxsen.ehdzxsi’behgkxebme dznemdeczbeldmoebmeigdjegbezreogb
ocxseoxerqdsxiehdmnercxebkxsxemherczbezsaxbrz grzmsteOxecgieogyjxi
bxaxdgyerznxbeqvegsieimosercxeygos,esxzrcxdeNzbbeBrmsxdesmden.bxyh
yzjzs ermeldxgjezseqvmseczbercmq crbelxhmdxecxedmqbxiecznbxyhehdmneczb
dxaxdzxt

“Zrezbeaxd.exbbxsrzgy,eNzbbeBrmsxd,”ebgziecx,e“rcgre.mqebcmqyi
glbmyqrxy.ehmyymoen.egiazkxezsexaxd.edxbvxkrt”

“Zebcgyyenmbrekxdrgzsy.eimebmt”

“Rcxengrrxdezbermmebxdzmqbehmdegs.ecxbzrgrzmste.mqdeyzhxeng.eixvxsi
qvmse.mqdekmnvyzgskxt”

“Zegbbqdxe.mqercgreZegnezse.mqdecgsibt”

“Zsercxehzdbrevygkx,elmrcen.ehdzxsiegsieZenqbrebvxsiercxesz crezse.mqd
dmmnt”

LmrceNzbbeBrmsxdegsieZe gwxiegrecznezsegbrmszbcnxsrt

“.xb,ezrenqbrelxebmteYxrenxexpvygzsteZelxyzxaxercgrercgrezbercxeazyyg x
zssemaxdercxdx?”

“.xb,ercgrezbercxeKdmost”

“Axd.e mmite.mqdeozsimobeomqyielxeazbzlyxehdmnercxdx?”

“Kxdrgzsy.t”

“.mqenqbrekmshzsxe.mqdbxyherme.mqdedmmn,emsevdxrxskxemhegecxgigkcx,
ocxse.mqdebrxvhgrcxdekmnxbelgkjteRcxseocxse.mqecxgdecznedxrzdxehmdercx
sz cr,e.mqenqbremvxsercxebcqrrxdbemhe.mqdeozsimo,eqsimercxecgbv,evqr
.mqdeygnvercxdxegbegebz sgyermeqb,egsiercxseozrcidgoeuqzxry.eozrc
xaxd.rczs eoczkce.mqegdxeyzjxy.ermeogsrezsrmercxedmmneoczkce.mqeqbxierm
mkkqv.teZecgaxesmeimqlrercgr,ezsebvzrxemhercxedxvgzdb,e.mqekmqyiengsg x
rcxdxehmdemsxesz crt”

“Mc,e.xb,exgbzy.t”

“Rcxedxbre.mqeozyyeyxgaxezsemqdecgsibt”

“Lqreocgreozyye.mqeim?”

“Oxebcgyyebvxsiercxesz crezse.mqdedmmn,egsieoxebcgyyezsaxbrz grxercx
kgqbxemherczbesmzbxeoczkcecgbeizbrqdlxie.mqt”

“Zelxyzxax,eNdteCmynxb,ercgre.mqecgaxegydxgi.engixeqve.mqdenzsi,”ebgzi
NzbbeBrmsxd,eyg.zs ecxdecgsieqvmsen.ekmnvgszms’bebyxxaxt

“VxdcgvbeZecgaxt”

“Rcxs,ehmdevzr.’bebgjx,erxyyenxeocgreogbercxekgqbxemhen.ebzbrxd’b
ixgrct”

“ZebcmqyievdxhxdermecgaxekyxgdxdevdmmhbelxhmdxeZebvxgjt”

“.mqekgsegreyxgbrerxyyenxeocxrcxden.emosercmq crezbekmddxkr,egsiezhebcx
izxiehdmnebmnxebqiixsehdz crt”

“Sm,eZeimesmrerczsjebmteZerczsjercgrercxdxeogbevdmlgly.ebmnxenmdx
rgs zlyxekgqbxteGsiesmo,eNzbbeBrmsxd,eoxenqbreyxgaxe.mqehmdezheIdt
Dm.ymrredxrqdsxiegsiebgoeqbemqdefmqdsx.eomqyielxezseagzste mmi-l.x,egsi
lxeldgax,ehmdezhe.mqeozyyeimeocgreZecgaxermyie.mq,e.mqeng.edxbregbbqdxi
rcgreoxebcgyyebmmseidzaxegog.ercxeigs xdbercgrercdxgrxse.mqt”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbegsieZecgiesmeizhhzkqyr.ezsexs g zs egelxidmmnegsi
bzrrzs -dmmnegrercxeKdmoseZssteRcx.eoxdxemsercxeqvvxdehymmd,egsiehdmn
mqdeozsimoeoxekmqyiekmnngsiegeazxoemhercxegaxsqxe grx,egsiemhercx
zscglzrxieozs emheBrmjxeNmdgseNgsmdeCmqbxteGreiqbjeoxebgoeIdte dznxbl.
Dm.ymrreidzaxevgbr,eczbecq xehmdneymmnzs eqvelxbzixercxeyzrryxehz qdx
mhercxeygieocmeidmaxecznteRcxelm.ecgiebmnxebyz creizhhzkqyr.ezseqsimzs 
rcxecxga.ezdmse grxb,egsieoxecxgdiercxecmgdbxedmgdemhercxeImkrmd’b
amzkxegsiebgoercxehqd.eozrceoczkcecxebcmmjeczbekyzskcxiehzbrbegrecznt
Rcxerdgveidmaxems,egsiegehxoenzsqrxbeygrxdeoxebgoegebqiixseyz crebvdzs 
qvegnms ercxerdxxbegbercxeygnveogbeyzrezsemsxemhercxebzrrzs -dmmnbt

“Ime.mqejsmo,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxbegbeoxebgrerm xrcxdezsercxe grcxdzs 
igdjsxbb,e“Zecgaxedxgyy.ebmnxebkdqvyxbegbermergjzs e.mqerm-sz crteRcxdx
zbegeizbrzskrexyxnxsremheigs xdt”

“KgseZelxemhegbbzbrgskx?”

“.mqdevdxbxskxenz crelxezsagyqglyxt”

“RcxseZebcgyyekxdrgzsy.ekmnxt”

“Zrezbeaxd.ejzsiemhe.mqt”

“.mqebvxgjemheigs xdte.mqecgaxexazixsry.ebxxsenmdxezsercxbxedmmnbercgs
ogbeazbzlyxermenxt”

“Sm,elqreZehgsk.ercgreZeng.ecgaxeixiqkxiegeyzrryxenmdxteZezng zsxercgr
.mqebgoegyyercgreZeizit”

“Zebgoesmrczs edxngdjglyxebgaxercxelxyy-dmvx,egsieocgrevqdvmbxercgr
kmqyiegsboxdeZekmshxbbezbenmdxercgseZekgsezng zsxt”

“.mqebgoercxeaxsrzygrmd,ermm?”

“.xb,elqreZeimesmrerczsjercgrezrezbebqkcegeaxd.eqsqbqgyerczs ermecgaxeg
bngyyemvxszs elxroxxseromedmmnbteZreogbebmebngyyercgregedgrekmqyi
cgdiy.evgbbercdmq ct”

“ZejsxoercgreoxebcmqyiehzsiegeaxsrzygrmdelxhmdxexaxdeoxekgnxermeBrmjx
Nmdgst”

“N.eixgdeCmynxb!”

“Mc,e.xb,eZeizite.mqedxnxnlxdezsecxdebrgrxnxsrebcxebgziercgrecxdebzbrxd
kmqyiebnxyyeIdteDm.ymrr’bekz gdteSmo,emhekmqdbxercgrebq  xbrxiegremskx
rcgrercxdxenqbrelxegekmnnqszkgrzmselxroxxsercxeromedmmnbteZrekmqyiemsy.
lxegebngyyemsx,emdezreomqyiecgaxelxxsedxngdjxieqvmsegrercxekmdmsxd’b
zsuqzd.teZeixiqkxiegeaxsrzygrmdt”

“Lqreocgrecgdnekgsercxdxelxezsercgr?”

“Oxyy,ercxdxezbegreyxgbregekqdzmqbekmzskzixskxemheigrxbteGeaxsrzygrmd
zbengix,egekmdiezbecqs ,egsiegeygi.eocmebyxxvbezsercxelxieizxbteImxb
smrercgrebrdzjxe.mq?”

“Zekgssmregbe.xrebxxegs.ekmssxkrzmst”

“Izie.mqemlbxdaxegs.rczs eaxd.evxkqyzgdeglmqrercgrelxi?”

“Smt”

“ZreogbekygnvxiermercxehymmdteIzie.mqexaxdebxxegelxiehgbrxsxieyzjxercgr
lxhmdx?”

“Zekgssmrebg.ercgreZecgaxt”

“Rcxeygi.ekmqyiesmrenmaxecxdelxiteZrenqbregyog.belxezsercxebgnx
dxygrzaxevmbzrzmsermercxeaxsrzygrmdegsiermercxedmvx—mdebmeoxeng.ekgyy
zr,ebzskxezreogbekyxgdy.esxaxdenxgsrehmdegelxyy-vqyyt”

“Cmynxb,”eZekdzxi,e“Zebxxnermebxxeizny.eocgre.mqegdxeczsrzs egrteOxegdx
msy.efqbrezserznxermevdxaxsrebmnxebqlryxegsiecmddzlyxekdznxt”

“Bqlryxexsmq cegsiecmddzlyxexsmq cteOcxsegeimkrmdeimxbe meodms ecxezb
rcxehzdbremhekdznzsgybteCxecgbesxdaxegsiecxecgbejsmoyxi xteVgynxdegsi
Vdzrkcgdieoxdxegnms ercxecxgibemhercxzdevdmhxbbzmsteRczbengsebrdzjxb
xaxseixxvxd,elqreZerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgreoxebcgyyelxeglyxermebrdzjx
ixxvxdebrzyyteLqreoxebcgyyecgaxecmddmdbexsmq celxhmdxercxesz crezb
maxd;ehmde mmisxbb’ebgjxeyxreqbecgaxegeuqzxrevzvxegsierqdsemqdenzsib
hmdegehxoecmqdbermebmnxrczs enmdxekcxxdhqyt”

Glmqreszsxem’kymkjercxeyz cregnms ercxerdxxbeogbexprzs qzbcxi,egsiegyy
ogbeigdjezsercxeizdxkrzmsemhercxeNgsmdeCmqbxteRomecmqdbevgbbxiebymoy.
gog.,egsiercxs,ebqiixsy.,efqbregrercxebrdmjxemhexyxaxs,egebzs yxeldz cr
yz crebcmsxemqredz crezsehdmsremheqbt

“Rcgrezbemqdebz sgy,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebvdzs zs ermeczbehxxr;e“zrekmnxb
hdmnercxenziiyxeozsimot”

Gbeoxevgbbxiemqrecxexpkcgs xiegehxoeomdibeozrcercxeygsiymdi,expvygzszs 
rcgreoxeoxdxe mzs emsegeygrxeazbzrermegsegkuqgzsrgskx,egsiercgrezreogb
vmbbzlyxercgreoxenz crebvxsiercxesz crercxdxteGenmnxsreygrxdeoxeoxdx
mqremsercxeigdjedmgi,egekczyyeozsielymozs ezsemqdehgkxb,egsiemsxe.xyymo
yz crerozsjyzs ezsehdmsremheqbercdmq cercxe ymmnerme qzixeqbemsemqd
bmnldxexddgsit

Rcxdxeogbeyzrryxeizhhzkqyr.ezsexsrxdzs ercxe dmqsib,ehmdeqsdxvgzdxi
ldxgkcxbe gvxiezsercxemyievgdjeogyyteNgjzs emqdeog.egnms ercxerdxxb,eox
dxgkcxiercxeygos,ekdmbbxiezr,egsieoxdxeglmqrermexsrxdercdmq cercx
ozsimoeocxsemqrehdmnegekyqnvemheygqdxyelqbcxbercxdxeigdrxieocgrebxxnxi
rmelxegeczixmqbegsieizbrmdrxiekczyi,eocmercdxoezrbxyheqvmsercxe dgbb
ozrceodzrczs eyznlbegsiercxsedgsebozhry.egkdmbbercxeygosezsrmercx
igdjsxbbt

“N.e mi!”eZeoczbvxdxi;e“izie.mqebxxezr?”

CmynxbeogbehmdercxenmnxsregbebrgdryxiegbeZteCzbecgsiekymbxieyzjxegeazkx
qvmsen.eodzbrezseczbeg zrgrzmsteRcxsecxeldmjxezsrmegeymoeygq cegsievqr
czbeyzvbermen.exgdt

“Zrezbegeszkxecmqbxcmyi,”ecxenqdnqdxite“Rcgrezbercxelglmmst”

Zecgiehmd mrrxsercxebrdgs xevxrbeoczkcercxeImkrmdeghhxkrxiteRcxdxeogbeg
kcxxrgc,ermm;evxdcgvbeoxenz crehzsiezreqvmsemqdebcmqyixdbegregs.
nmnxsrteZekmshxbbercgreZehxyrexgbzxdezsen.enzsieocxs,eghrxdehmyymozs 
Cmynxb’expgnvyxegsiebyzvvzs emhhen.ebcmxb,eZehmqsien.bxyhezsbzixercx
lxidmmnteN.ekmnvgszmsesmzbxyxbby.ekymbxiercxebcqrrxdb,enmaxiercxeygnv
msrmercxerglyx,egsiekgbreczbex.xbedmqsiercxedmmnteGyyeogbegbeoxecgi
bxxsezrezsercxeig.rznxteRcxsekdxxvzs eqvermenxegsiengjzs egerdqnvxremh
czbecgsi,ecxeoczbvxdxiezsrmen.exgdeg gzsebme xsry.ercgrezreogbegyyercgr
Zekmqyieimermeizbrzs qzbcercxeomdib:

“Rcxeyxgbrebmqsieomqyielxehgrgyermemqdevygsbt”

ZesmiixiermebcmoercgreZecgiecxgdit

“Oxenqbrebzreozrcmqreyz crteCxeomqyiebxxezrercdmq cercxeaxsrzygrmdt”

Zesmiixieg gzst

“Imesmre megbyxxv;e.mqdeaxd.eyzhxeng.eixvxsieqvmsezrteCgaxe.mqdevzbrmy
dxgi.ezsekgbxeoxebcmqyiesxxiezrteZeozyyebzremsercxebzixemhercxelxi,egsi
.mqezsercgrekcgzdt”

Zermmjemqren.edxamyaxdegsieygziezremsercxekmdsxdemhercxerglyxt

Cmynxbecgieldmq creqvegeyms erczsekgsx,egsierczbecxevygkxieqvmsercxelxi
lxbzixecznteL.ezrecxeygziercxelmpemhengrkcxbegsiercxebrqnvemhegekgsiyxt
Rcxsecxerqdsxieimosercxeygnv,egsieoxeoxdxeyxhrezseigdjsxbbt

CmoebcgyyeZexaxdehmd xrercgreidxgihqyeaz zy?eZekmqyiesmrecxgdegebmqsi,
smrexaxsercxeidgozs emhegeldxgrc,egsie.xreZejsxoercgren.ekmnvgszmsebgr
mvxs-x.xi,eozrczsegehxoehxxremhenx,ezsercxebgnxebrgrxemhesxdamqb
rxsbzmsezseoczkceZeogben.bxyhteRcxebcqrrxdbekqremhhercxeyxgbredg.emh
yz cr,egsieoxeogzrxiezseglbmyqrxeigdjsxbbt

Hdmnemqrbzixekgnxercxemkkgbzmsgyekd.emhegesz cr-lzdi,egsiemskxegremqd
axd.eozsimoegeyms eidgosekgryzjxeoczsx,eoczkcermyieqbercgrercxekcxxrgc
ogbezsixxiegreyzlxdr.teHgdegog.eoxekmqyiecxgdercxeixxvermsxbemhercx
vgdzbcekymkj,eoczkcelmmnxiemqrexaxd.euqgdrxdemhegsecmqdteCmoeyms ercx.
bxxnxi,ercmbxeuqgdrxdb!eRoxyaxebrdqkj,egsiemsxegsieromegsiercdxx,egsi
brzyyeoxebgreogzrzs ebzyxsry.ehmdeocgrxaxdenz crelxhgyyt

Bqiixsy.ercxdxeogbercxenmnxsrgd.e yxgnemhegeyz creqvezsercxeizdxkrzms
mhercxeaxsrzygrmd,eoczkceagszbcxieznnxizgrxy.,elqreogbebqkkxxixiel.eg
brdms ebnxyyemhelqdszs emzyegsiecxgrxienxrgyteBmnxmsxezsercxesxpredmmn
cgieyzregeigdj-ygsrxdsteZecxgdiege xsryxebmqsiemhenmaxnxsr,egsiercxs
gyyeogbebzyxsremskxenmdx,ercmq cercxebnxyye dxoebrdms xdteHmdecgyhegs
cmqdeZebgreozrcebrdgzszs exgdbteRcxsebqiixsy.egsmrcxdebmqsielxkgnx
gqizlyx—geaxd.e xsryx,ebmmrczs ebmqsi,eyzjxercgremhegebngyyefxremh
brxgnexbkgvzs ekmsrzsqgyy.ehdmnegejxrryxteRcxezsbrgsrercgreoxecxgdiezr,
Cmynxbebvdgs ehdmnercxelxi,ebrdqkjegengrkc,egsieygbcxiehqdzmqby.eozrc
czbekgsxegrercxelxyy-vqyyt

“.mqebxxezr,eOgrbms?”ecxe.xyyxite“.mqebxxezr?”

LqreZebgoesmrczs teGrercxenmnxsreocxseCmynxbebrdqkjercxeyz creZecxgdieg
ymo,ekyxgdeoczbryx,elqrercxebqiixse ygdxehygbczs ezsrmen.eoxgd.ex.xb
ngixezreznvmbbzlyxehmdenxermerxyyeocgrezreogbegreoczkcen.ehdzxsieygbcxi
bmebgag xy.teZekmqyi,ecmoxaxd,ebxxercgreczbehgkxeogbeixgiy.evgyxegsi
hzyyxieozrcecmddmdegsieymgrczs teCxecgiekxgbxiermebrdzjxegsieogbe gwzs 
qvegrercxeaxsrzygrmdeocxsebqiixsy.ercxdxeldmjxehdmnercxebzyxskxemhercx
sz crercxenmbrecmddzlyxekd.ermeoczkceZecgaxexaxdeyzbrxsxiteZreboxyyxi
qveymqixdegsieymqixd,egecmgdbxe.xyyemhevgzsegsiehxgdegsiegs xdegyy
nzs yxiezsercxemsxeidxgihqyebcdzxjteRcx.ebg.ercgregog.eimosezsercx
azyyg x,egsiexaxsezsercxeizbrgsrevgdbmsg x,ercgrekd.edgzbxiercx
byxxvxdbehdmnercxzdelxibteZrebrdqkjekmyiermemqdecxgdrb,egsieZebrmmi
 gwzs egreCmynxb,egsiecxegrenx,eqsrzyercxeygbrexkcmxbemhezrecgieizxi
gog.ezsrmercxebzyxskxehdmneoczkcezredmbxt

“Ocgrekgsezrenxgs?”eZe gbvxit

“Zrenxgsbercgrezrezbegyyemaxd,”eCmynxbegsboxdxite“Gsievxdcgvb,eghrxd
gyy,ezrezbehmdercxelxbrteRgjxe.mqdevzbrmy,egsieoxeozyyexsrxdeIdt
Dm.ymrr’bedmmnt”

Ozrcege dgaxehgkxecxeyzrercxeygnvegsieyxiercxeog.eimosercxekmddzimdt
Rozkxecxebrdqkjegrercxekcgnlxdeimmdeozrcmqregs.edxvy.ehdmneozrczsteRcxs
cxerqdsxiercxecgsiyxegsiexsrxdxi,eZegreczbecxxyb,eozrcercxekmkjxi
vzbrmyezsen.ecgsit

Zreogbegebzs qygdebz creoczkcenxremqdex.xbteMsercxerglyxebrmmieg
igdj-ygsrxdseozrcercxebcqrrxdecgyhemvxs,ercdmozs egeldzyyzgsrelxgnemh
yz creqvmsercxezdmsebghx,ercxeimmdemheoczkceogbegfgdteLxbzixerczb
rglyx,emsercxeommixsekcgzd,ebgreIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrrekygiezsegeyms 
 dx.eidxbbzs - mos,eczbelgdxegsjyxbevdmrdqizs elxsxgrc,egsieczbehxxr
rcdqbrezsrmedxiecxxyyxbbeRqdjzbcebyzvvxdbteGkdmbbeczbeygveyg.ercxebcmdr
brmkjeozrcercxeyms eygbceoczkceoxecgiesmrzkxieiqdzs ercxeig.teCzbekczs
ogbekmkjxieqvogdiegsieczbex.xbeoxdxehzpxiezsegeidxgihqy,edz ziebrgdxegr
rcxekmdsxdemhercxekxzyzs teDmqsieczbeldmoecxecgiegevxkqyzgde.xyymo
lgsi,eozrceldmoszbcebvxkjyxb,eoczkcebxxnxiermelxelmqsierz cry.edmqsi
czbecxgiteGbeoxexsrxdxiecxengixesxzrcxdebmqsiesmdenmrzmst

“Rcxelgsi!ercxebvxkjyxielgsi!”eoczbvxdxieCmynxbt

ZermmjegebrxvehmdogditeZsegsezsbrgsreczbebrdgs xecxgi xgdelx gserm
nmax,egsiercxdxedxgdxiezrbxyhehdmnegnms eczbecgzdercxebuqgr
izgnmsi-bcgvxiecxgiegsievqhhxiesxkjemhegeymgrcbmnxebxdvxsrt

“Zrezbegebognvegiixd!”ekdzxieCmynxb;e“rcxeixgiyzxbrebsgjxezseZsizgteCx
cgbeizxieozrczserxsebxkmsibemhelxzs elzrrxsteAzmyxskxeimxb,ezserdqrc,
dxkmzyeqvmsercxeazmyxsr,egsiercxebkcxnxdehgyybezsrmercxevzreoczkcecx
iz behmdegsmrcxdteYxreqbercdqbrerczbekdxgrqdxelgkjezsrmezrbeixs,egsieox
kgsercxsedxnmaxeNzbbeBrmsxdermebmnxevygkxemhebcxyrxdegsieyxrercxekmqsr.
vmyzkxejsmoeocgrecgbecgvvxsxit”

Gbecxebvmjxecxeidxoercxeim -oczvebozhry.ehdmnercxeixgiengs’beygv,egsi
rcdmozs ercxesmmbxedmqsiercxedxvrzyx’besxkjecxeidxoezrehdmnezrbecmddzi
vxdkcegsi,ekgdd.zs ezregregdn’beyxs rc,ercdxoezrezsrmercxezdmsebghx,
oczkcecxekymbxieqvmsezrt

BqkcegdxercxerdqxehgkrbemhercxeixgrcemheIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrr,emheBrmjx
NmdgsteZrezbesmresxkxbbgd.ercgreZebcmqyievdmyms egesgddgrzaxeoczkcecgb
gydxgi.edqsermermme dxgregeyxs rcel.erxyyzs ecmoeoxeldmjxercxebgiesxob
rmercxerxddzhzxie zdy,ecmoeoxekmsax.xiecxdel.ercxenmdszs erdgzsermercx
kgdxemhecxde mmiegqsregreCgddmo,emhecmoercxebymoevdmkxbbemhemhhzkzgy
zsuqzd.ekgnxermercxekmskyqbzmsercgrercxeimkrmdenxreczbehgrxeoczyx
zsizbkdxxry.evyg.zs eozrcegeigs xdmqbevxrteRcxeyzrryxeoczkceZecgie.xr
rmeyxgdsemhercxekgbxeogbermyienxel.eBcxdymkjeCmynxbegbeoxerdgaxyyxi
lgkjesxpreig.t

“Zecgi,”ebgziecx,e“kmnxermegsexsrzdxy.exddmsxmqbekmskyqbzmseoczkc
bcmob,en.eixgdeOgrbms,ecmoeigs xdmqbezregyog.bezbermedxgbmsehdmn
zsbqhhzkzxsreigrgteRcxevdxbxskxemhercxe zvbzxb,egsiercxeqbxemhercxeomdi
‘lgsi,’eoczkceogbeqbxiel.ercxevmmde zdy,esmeimqlr,ermexpvygzsercx
gvvxgdgskxeoczkcebcxecgiekgq cregecqddzxie yznvbxemhel.ercxeyz cremh
cxdengrkc,eoxdxebqhhzkzxsrermevqrenxeqvmsegsexsrzdxy.eodms ebkxsrteZ
kgsemsy.ekygznercxenxdzrercgreZezsbrgsry.edxkmsbzixdxien.evmbzrzms
ocxs,ecmoxaxd,ezrelxkgnxekyxgdermenxercgreocgrxaxdeigs xdercdxgrxsxiegs
mkkqvgsremhercxedmmnekmqyiesmrekmnxexzrcxdehdmnercxeozsimoemdercxeimmdt
N.egrrxsrzmseogbebvxxizy.eidgos,egbeZecgaxegydxgi.edxngdjxierme.mq,erm
rczbeaxsrzygrmd,egsiermercxelxyy-dmvxeoczkcecqs eimosermercxelxiteRcx
izbkmaxd.ercgrerczbeogbegeiqnn.,egsiercgrercxelxieogbekygnvxiermercx
hymmd,ezsbrgsry.e gaxedzbxermercxebqbvzkzmsercgrercxedmvxeogbercxdxegb
geldzi xehmdebmnxrczs evgbbzs ercdmq cercxecmyxegsiekmnzs ermercxelxit
Rcxezixgemhegebsgjxezsbrgsry.emkkqddxiermenx,egsieocxseZekmqvyxiezr
ozrcen.ejsmoyxi xercgrercxeimkrmdeogbehqdszbcxieozrcegebqvvy.emh
kdxgrqdxbehdmneZsizg,eZehxyrercgreZeogbevdmlgly.emsercxedz crerdgkjt
Rcxezixgemheqbzs egehmdnemhevmzbmseoczkcekmqyiesmrevmbbzly.elx
izbkmaxdxiel.egs.ekcxnzkgyerxbreogbefqbrebqkcegemsxegbeomqyiemkkqdermeg
kyxaxdegsiedqrcyxbbengseocmecgiecgiegseXgbrxdserdgzszs teRcxedgvzizr.
ozrceoczkcebqkcegevmzbmseomqyiergjxexhhxkreomqyiegybm,ehdmneczbevmzsr
mheazxo,elxegsegiagsrg xteZreomqyielxegebcgdv-x.xiekmdmsxd,ezsixxi,eocm
kmqyieizbrzs qzbcercxeromeyzrryxeigdjevqskrqdxbeoczkceomqyiebcmoeocxdx
rcxevmzbmsehgs becgieimsxercxzdeomdjteRcxseZercmq cremhercxeoczbryxteMh
kmqdbxecxenqbredxkgyyercxebsgjxelxhmdxercxenmdszs eyz credxaxgyxiezrerm
rcxeazkrznteCxecgierdgzsxiezr,evdmlgly.el.ercxeqbxemhercxenzyjeoczkceox
bgo,ermedxrqdsermeczneocxsebqnnmsxiteCxeomqyievqrezrercdmq cerczb
axsrzygrmdegrercxecmqdercgrecxercmq crelxbr,eozrcercxekxdrgzsr.ercgrezr
omqyiekdgoyeimosercxedmvxegsieygsiemsercxelxiteZrenz cremdenz cresmr
lzrxercxemkkqvgsr,evxdcgvbebcxenz crexbkgvxexaxd.esz crehmdegeoxxj,elqr
bmmsxdemdeygrxdebcxenqbrehgyyegeazkrznt

“ZecgiekmnxermercxbxekmskyqbzmsbelxhmdxexaxdeZecgiexsrxdxieczbedmmnteGs
zsbvxkrzmsemheczbekcgzdebcmoxienxercgrecxecgielxxsezsercxecglzremh
brgsizs emsezr,eoczkcemhekmqdbxeomqyielxesxkxbbgd.ezsemdixdercgrecx
bcmqyiedxgkcercxeaxsrzygrmdteRcxebz cremhercxebghx,ercxebgqkxdemhenzyj,
gsiercxeymmvemheoczvkmdieoxdxexsmq cermehzsgyy.eizbvxyegs.eimqlrbeoczkc
ng.ecgaxedxngzsxiteRcxenxrgyyzkekygs ecxgdiel.eNzbbeBrmsxdeogb
mlazmqby.ekgqbxiel.ecxdebrxvhgrcxdecgbrzy.ekymbzs ercxeimmdemheczbebghx
qvmsezrberxddzlyxemkkqvgsrteCgazs emskxengixeqven.enzsi,e.mqejsmoercx
brxvbeoczkceZermmjezsemdixdermevqrercxengrrxdermercxevdmmhteZecxgdiercx
kdxgrqdxeczbbegbeZecgaxesmeimqlrercgre.mqeiziegybm,egsieZezsbrgsry.eyzr
rcxeyz cregsiegrrgkjxiezrt”

“Ozrcercxedxbqyremheidzazs ezrercdmq cercxeaxsrzygrmdt”

“Gsiegybmeozrcercxedxbqyremhekgqbzs ezrermerqdseqvmsezrbengbrxdegrercx
mrcxdebzixteBmnxemhercxelymobemhen.ekgsxekgnxecmnxegsiedmqbxiezrb
bsgjzbcerxnvxd,ebmercgrezrehyxoeqvmsercxehzdbrevxdbmsezrebgoteZserczb
og.eZegnesmeimqlrezsizdxkry.edxbvmsbzlyxehmdeIdte dznxbl.eDm.ymrr’b
ixgrc,egsieZekgssmrebg.ercgrezrezbeyzjxy.ermeoxz ceaxd.ecxgazy.eqvmsen.
kmsbkzxskxt”



ZPteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeXS ZSXXD’BeRCQNL

Mhegyyercxevdmlyxnbeoczkcecgaxelxxsebqlnzrrxiermen.ehdzxsi,eNdt
BcxdymkjeCmynxb,ehmdebmyqrzmseiqdzs ercxe.xgdbemhemqdezsrzngk.,ercxdx
oxdxemsy.eromeoczkceZeogbercxenxgsbemhezsrdmiqkzs ermeczbesmrzkx—rcgr
mheNdteCgrcxdyx.’bercqnl,egsiercgremheKmymsxyeOgdlqdrms’bengisxbbteMh
rcxbxercxeygrrxdeng.ecgaxeghhmdixiegehzsxdehzxyiehmdegsegkqrxegsi
mdz zsgyemlbxdaxd,elqrercxemrcxdeogbebmebrdgs xezsezrbezskxvrzmsegsiebm
idgngrzkezsezrbeixrgzybercgrezreng.elxercxenmdxeomdrc.emhelxzs evygkxi
qvmsedxkmdi,exaxsezhezre gaxen.ehdzxsiehxoxdemvxszs behmdercmbx
ixiqkrzaxenxrcmibemhedxgbmszs el.eoczkcecxegkczxaxiebqkcedxngdjglyx
dxbqyrbteRcxebrmd.ecgb,eZelxyzxax,elxxsermyienmdxercgsemskxezsercx
sxobvgvxdb,elqr,eyzjxegyyebqkcesgddgrzaxb,ezrbexhhxkrezbenqkceyxbb
brdzjzs eocxsebxrehmdrce_xselymk_ezsegebzs yxecgyh-kmyqnsemhevdzsrercgs
ocxsercxehgkrbebymoy.examyaxelxhmdxe.mqdemosex.xb,egsiercxen.brxd.
kyxgdbe dgiqgyy.egog.egbexgkcesxoeizbkmaxd.ehqdszbcxbegebrxveoczkc
yxgibemsermercxekmnvyxrxerdqrcteGrercxerznxercxekzdkqnbrgskxbengixeg
ixxveznvdxbbzmseqvmsenx,egsiercxeygvbxemherome.xgdbecgbecgdiy.ebxdaxi
rmeoxgjxsercxexhhxkrt

Zreogbezsercxebqnnxdemhe’89,esmreyms eghrxden.engddzg x,ercgrercx
xaxsrbemkkqddxieoczkceZegnesmoeglmqrermebqnngdzbxteZecgiedxrqdsxierm
kzazyevdgkrzkxegsiecgiehzsgyy.eglgsimsxieCmynxbezseczbeLgjxdeBrdxxr
dmmnb,egyrcmq ceZekmsrzsqgyy.eazbzrxiecznegsiemkkgbzmsgyy.exaxs
vxdbqgixiecznermehmd meczbeLmcxnzgsecglzrbebmehgdegbermekmnxegsieazbzr
qbteN.evdgkrzkxecgiebrxgizy.ezskdxgbxi,egsiegbeZecgvvxsxiermeyzaxegresm
axd.e dxgreizbrgskxehdmneVgiizs rmseBrgrzms,eZe mregehxoevgrzxsrbehdmn
gnms ercxemhhzkzgybteMsxemhercxbx,eocmneZecgiekqdxiemhegevgzshqyegsi
yzs xdzs eizbxgbx,eogbesxaxdeoxgd.emhegiaxdrzbzs en.eazdrqxbegsiemh
xsixgamqdzs ermebxsienxemsexaxd.ebqhhxdxdemaxdeocmnecxenz crecgaxegs.
zshyqxskxt

Msxenmdszs ,egregeyzrryxelxhmdxebxaxsem’kymkj,eZeogbegogjxsxiel.ercx
ngziergvvzs egrercxeimmdermegssmqskxercgreromenxsecgiekmnxehdmn
Vgiizs rmsegsieoxdxeogzrzs ezsercxekmsbqyrzs -dmmnteZeidxbbxi
cqddzxiy.,ehmdeZejsxoel.expvxdzxskxercgredgzyog.ekgbxbeoxdxebxyimn
rdzazgy,egsiecgbrxsxieimosbrgzdbteGbeZeixbkxsixi,en.emyiegyy.,ercx
 qgdi,ekgnxemqremhercxedmmnegsiekymbxiercxeimmderz cry.elxczsiecznt

“Z’axe mrecznecxdx,”ecxeoczbvxdxi,efxdjzs eczbercqnlemaxdeczbebcmqyixd;
“cx’begyyedz crt”

“Ocgrezbezr,ercxs?”eZegbjxi,ehmdeczbengssxdebq  xbrxiercgrezreogbebmnx
brdgs xekdxgrqdxeoczkcecxecgiekg xieqvezsen.edmmnt

“Zr’begesxoevgrzxsr,”ecxeoczbvxdxite“Zercmq creZ’ieldzs ecznedmqsi
n.bxyh;ercxsecxekmqyis’rebyzvegog.teRcxdxecxezb,egyyebghxegsiebmqsiteZ
nqbre mesmo,eImkrmd;eZecgaxen.eimmrzxb,efqbrercxebgnxegbe.mqt”eGsiemhh
cxeoxsr,erczberdqbr.ermqr,eozrcmqrexaxse zazs enxerznxermercgsjecznt

Zexsrxdxien.ekmsbqyrzs -dmmnegsiehmqsiege xsryxngsebxgrxiel.ercxerglyxt
Cxeogbeuqzxry.eidxbbxiezsegebqzremhecxgrcxderoxxieozrcegebmhrekymrcekgv
oczkcecxecgieygzieimoseqvmsen.elmmjbteDmqsiemsxemheczbecgsibecxecgieg
cgsijxdkczxheodgvvxi,eoczkceogbenmrryxiegyyemaxdeozrcelymmibrgzsbteCx
ogbe.mqs ,esmrenmdxercgsehzax-gsi-roxsr.,eZebcmqyiebg.,eozrcegebrdms ,
ngbkqyzsxehgkx;elqrecxeogbexpkxxizs y.evgyxegsie gaxenxercxeznvdxbbzms
mhegengseocmeogbebqhhxdzs ehdmnebmnxebrdms eg zrgrzms,eoczkcezrermmj
gyyeczbebrdxs rcemhenzsiermekmsrdmyt

“Zegnebmdd.ermejsmkje.mqeqvebmexgdy.,eImkrmd,”ebgziecx,e“lqreZecgaxecgi
geaxd.ebxdzmqbegkkzixsreiqdzs ercxesz crteZekgnxezsel.erdgzserczb
nmdszs ,egsiemsezsuqzdzs egreVgiizs rmsegbermeocxdxeZenz crehzsieg
imkrmd,egeomdrc.ehxyymoeaxd.ejzsiy.exbkmdrxienxecxdxteZe gaxercxengzieg
kgdi,elqreZebxxercgrebcxecgbeyxhrezreqvmsercxebzix-rglyxt”

Zermmjezreqvegsie ygskxiegrezrte“NdteAzkrmdeCgrcxdyx.,ec.idgqyzk
xs zsxxd,e16G,eAzkrmdzgeBrdxxre(3diehymmd)t”eRcgreogbercxesgnx,ebr.yx,
gsieglmixemhen.enmdszs eazbzrmdte“Zedx dxrercgreZecgaxejxvre.mq
ogzrzs ,”ebgzieZ,ebzrrzs eimosezsen.eyzldgd.-kcgzdte“.mqegdxehdxbcehdmn
gesz crefmqdsx.,eZeqsixdbrgsi,eoczkcezbezsezrbxyhegenmsmrmsmqb
mkkqvgrzmst”

“Mc,en.esz crekmqyiesmrelxekgyyxienmsmrmsmqb,”ebgziecx,egsieygq cxiteCx
ygq cxieaxd.ecxgdrzy.,eozrcegecz c,edzs zs esmrx,eyxgszs elgkjezseczb
kcgzdegsiebcgjzs eczbebzixbteGyyen.enxizkgyezsbrzskrbedmbxeqveg gzsbr
rcgreygq ct

“Brmvezr!”eZekdzxi;e“vqyye.mqdbxyherm xrcxd!”egsieZevmqdxiemqrebmnx
ogrxdehdmnegekgdghhxt

Zreogbeqbxyxbb,ecmoxaxdteCxeogbemhhezsemsxemhercmbxec.brxdzkgy
mqrlqdbrbeoczkcekmnxeqvmsegebrdms esgrqdxeocxsebmnxe dxgrekdzbzbezb
maxdegsie msxteVdxbxsry.ecxekgnxermecznbxyhemskxenmdx,eaxd.eoxgd.egsi
vgyx-ymmjzs t

“Zecgaxelxxsengjzs egehmmyemhen.bxyh,”ecxe gbvxit

“SmregregyyteIdzsjerczbt”eZeigbcxiebmnxeldgsi.ezsrmercxeogrxd,egsiercx
kmymqdelx gsermekmnxelgkjermeczbelymmiyxbbekcxxjbt

“Rcgr’belxrrxd!”ebgziecxte“Gsiesmo,eImkrmd,evxdcgvbe.mqeomqyiejzsiy.
grrxsiermen.ercqnl,emdedgrcxdermercxevygkxeocxdxen.ercqnleqbxiermelxt”

CxeqsomqsiercxecgsijxdkczxhegsiecxyiemqreczbecgsiteZre gaxexaxsen.
cgdixsxiesxdaxbegebcqiixdermeymmjegrezrteRcxdxeoxdxehmqdevdmrdqizs 
hzs xdbegsiegecmddziedxi,ebvms .ebqdhgkxeocxdxercxercqnlebcmqyiecgax
lxxsteZrecgielxxsecgkjxiemdermdsedz cremqrehdmnercxedmmrbt

“ mmiecxgaxsb!”eZekdzxi,e“rczbezbegerxddzlyxezsfqd.teZrenqbrecgaxelyxi
kmsbzixdgly.t”

“.xb,ezreiziteZehgzsrxieocxsezreogbeimsx,egsieZerczsjercgreZenqbrecgax
lxxsebxsbxyxbbehmdegeyms erznxteOcxseZekgnxermeZehmqsiercgrezreogb
brzyyelyxxizs ,ebmeZerzxiemsxexsiemhen.ecgsijxdkczxheaxd.erz cry.edmqsi
rcxeodzbregsieldgkxiezreqveozrcegeroz t”

“Xpkxyyxsr!e.mqebcmqyiecgaxelxxsegebqd xmst”

“Zrezbegeuqxbrzmsemhec.idgqyzkb,e.mqebxx,egsiekgnxeozrczsen.emos
vdmazskxt”

“Rczbecgbelxxseimsx,”ebgzieZ,expgnzszs ercxeomqsi,e“l.egeaxd.ecxga.egsi
bcgdvezsbrdqnxsrt”

“Gerczs eyzjxegekyxgaxd,”ebgziecxt

“Gsegkkzixsr,eZevdxbqnx?”

“L.esmenxgsbt”

“Ocgr!egenqdixdmqbegrrgkj?”

“Axd.enqdixdmqbezsixxit”

“.mqecmddzh.enxt”

Zebvms xiercxeomqsi,ekyxgsxiezr,eidxbbxiezr,egsiehzsgyy.ekmaxdxiezr
maxdeozrcekmrrmseogiizs egsiekgdlmyzbxielgsig xbteCxeyg.elgkjeozrcmqr
ozskzs ,ercmq cecxelzreczbeyzvehdmnerznxermerznxt

“Cmoezbercgr?”eZegbjxieocxseZecgiehzszbcxit

“Kgvzrgy!eLxroxxse.mqdeldgsi.egsie.mqdelgsig x,eZehxxyegesxoengsteZeogb
axd.eoxgj,elqreZecgaxecgiege mmieixgyerme mercdmq ct”

“Vxdcgvbe.mqecgielxrrxdesmrebvxgjemhercxengrrxdteZrezbexazixsry.erd.zs 
rme.mqdesxdaxbt”

“Mc,esm,esmresmoteZebcgyyecgaxermerxyyen.ergyxermercxevmyzkx;elqr,
lxroxxsemqdbxyaxb,ezhezreoxdxesmrehmdercxekmsazskzs exazixskxemherczb
omqsiemhenzsx,eZebcmqyielxebqdvdzbxiezhercx.elxyzxaxien.ebrgrxnxsr,ehmd
zrezbegeaxd.exprdgmdizsgd.emsx,egsieZecgaxesmrenqkcezsercxeog.emhevdmmh
ozrceoczkcermelgkjezreqv;egsi,exaxsezhercx.elxyzxaxenx,ercxekyqxbeoczkc
Zekgse zaxercxnegdxebmeag qxercgrezrezbegeuqxbrzmseocxrcxdefqbrzkxeozyy
lxeimsxt”

“Cg!”ekdzxieZ,e“zhezrezbegs.rczs ezsercxesgrqdxemhegevdmlyxneoczkce.mq
ixbzdxermebxxebmyaxi,eZebcmqyiebrdms y.edxkmnnxsie.mqermekmnxermen.
hdzxsi,eNdteBcxdymkjeCmynxb,elxhmdxe.mqe mermercxemhhzkzgyevmyzkxt”

“Mc,eZecgaxecxgdiemhercgrehxyymo,”egsboxdxien.eazbzrmd,e“gsieZebcmqyi
lxeaxd.e ygiezhecxeomqyiergjxercxengrrxdeqv,ercmq cemhekmqdbxeZenqbr
qbxercxemhhzkzgyevmyzkxegbeoxyyteOmqyie.mqe zaxenxegsezsrdmiqkrzmserm
czn?”

“Z’yyeimelxrrxdteZ’yyergjxe.mqedmqsiermecznen.bxyht”

“Zebcmqyielxeznnxsbxy.emlyz xierme.mqt”

“Ox’yyekgyyegekglegsie merm xrcxdteOxebcgyyefqbrelxezserznxermecgaxeg
yzrryxeldxgjhgbreozrcecznteIme.mqehxxyexuqgyermezr?”

“.xb;eZebcgyyesmrehxxyexgb.eqsrzyeZecgaxermyien.ebrmd.t”

“Rcxsen.ebxdagsreozyyekgyyegekgl,egsieZebcgyyelxeozrce.mqezsegs
zsbrgsrt”eZedqbcxieqvbrgzdb,expvygzsxiercxengrrxdebcmdry.ermen.eozhx,
gsiezsehzaxenzsqrxbeogbezsbzixegecgsbmn,eidzazs eozrcen.esxo
gkuqgzsrgskxermeLgjxdeBrdxxrt

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeogb,egbeZexpvxkrxi,eymqs zs eglmqreczbebzrrzs -dmmnezs
czbeidxbbzs - mos,edxgizs ercxeg ms.ekmyqnsemhe_RcxeRznxb_egsiebnmjzs 
czbelxhmdx-ldxgjhgbrevzvx,eoczkceogbekmnvmbxiemhegyyercxevyq begsi
imrryxbeyxhrehdmneczbebnmjxbemhercxeig.elxhmdx,egyyekgdxhqyy.eidzxiegsi
kmyyxkrxiemsercxekmdsxdemhercxengsrxyvzxkxteCxedxkxzaxieqbezseczb
uqzxry.e xszgyehgbczms,emdixdxiehdxbcedgbcxdbegsiex  b,egsiefmzsxieqb
zsegecxgdr.enxgyteOcxsezreogbekmskyqixiecxebxrryxiemqdesxoegkuqgzsrgskx
qvmsercxebmhg,evygkxiegevzyymoelxsxgrceczbecxgi,egsieygziege ygbbemh
ldgsi.egsieogrxdeozrczseczbedxgkct

“Zrezbexgb.ermebxxercgre.mqdexpvxdzxskxecgbelxxsesmekmnnmsemsx,eNdt
Cgrcxdyx.,”ebgziecxte“Vdg.,eyzxeimosercxdxegsiengjxe.mqdbxyheglbmyqrxy.
grecmnxteRxyyeqbeocgre.mqekgs,elqrebrmveocxse.mqegdxerzdxiegsiejxxveqv
.mqdebrdxs rceozrcegeyzrryxebrznqygsrt”

“Rcgsje.mq,”ebgzien.evgrzxsr,e“lqreZecgaxehxyregsmrcxdengsebzskxercx
imkrmdelgsig xienx,egsieZerczsjercgre.mqdeldxgjhgbrecgbekmnvyxrxiercx
kqdxteZebcgyyergjxeqvegbeyzrryxemhe.mqdeagyqglyxerznxegbevmbbzlyx,ebmeZ
bcgyyebrgdregremskxeqvmsen.evxkqyzgdexpvxdzxskxbt”

Cmynxbebgrezseczbelz egdnkcgzdeozrcercxeoxgd.,ecxga.-yziixiexpvdxbbzms
oczkceaxzyxieczbejxxsegsiexg xdesgrqdx,eoczyxeZebgremvvmbzrxermeczn,
gsieoxeyzbrxsxiezsebzyxskxermercxebrdgs xebrmd.eoczkcemqdeazbzrmd
ixrgzyxiermeqbt

“.mqenqbrejsmo,”ebgziecx,e“rcgreZegnegsemdvcgsegsiegelgkcxymd,edxbzizs 
gymsxezseymi zs bezseYmsimsteL.evdmhxbbzmseZegnegec.idgqyzkexs zsxxd,
gsieZecgaxecgiekmsbzixdglyxexpvxdzxskxemhen.eomdjeiqdzs ercxebxaxs
.xgdbercgreZeogbegvvdxsrzkxiermeAxssxde&eNgrcxbms,ercxeoxyy-jsmosehzdn,
mhe dxxsozkcteRome.xgdbeg m,ecgazs ebxdaxien.erznx,egsiecgazs egybm
kmnxezsrmegehgzdebqnemhenmsx.ercdmq cen.evmmdehgrcxd’beixgrc,eZ
ixrxdnzsxiermebrgdrezselqbzsxbbehmden.bxyhegsiermmjevdmhxbbzmsgy
kcgnlxdbezseAzkrmdzgeBrdxxrt

“Zebqvvmbxercgrexaxd.msxehzsibeczbehzdbrezsixvxsixsrebrgdrezselqbzsxbb
geidxgd.expvxdzxskxteRmenxezrecgbelxxsexpkxvrzmsgyy.ebmteIqdzs erom
.xgdbeZecgaxecgiercdxxekmsbqyrgrzmsbegsiemsxebngyyefml,egsiercgrezb
glbmyqrxy.egyyercgren.evdmhxbbzmsecgbeldmq crenxteN.e dmbbergjzs b
gnmqsrerme£e27e10_b_teXaxd.eig.,ehdmneszsxezsercxenmdszs eqsrzyehmqdezs
rcxeghrxdsmms,eZeogzrxiezsen.eyzrryxeixs,eqsrzyegreygbren.ecxgdrelx gs
rmebzsj,egsieZekgnxermelxyzxaxercgreZebcmqyiesxaxdecgaxegs.evdgkrzkxegr
gyyt

“.xbrxdig.,ecmoxaxd,efqbregbeZeogberczsjzs emheyxgazs ercxemhhzkx,en.
kyxdjexsrxdxiermebg.ercxdxeogbege xsryxngseogzrzs eocmeozbcxiermebxxenx
qvmselqbzsxbbteCxeldmq creqvegekgdi,ermm,eozrcercxesgnxemhe‘Kmymsxy
Y.bgsixdeBrgdj’exs dgaxieqvmsezrteKymbxegreczbecxxybekgnxercxekmymsxy
cznbxyh,egengsedgrcxdemaxdercxenziiyxebzwx,elqremhegsexpkxxizs 
rczssxbbteZeimesmrerczsjercgreZecgaxexaxdebxxsebmerczsegengsteCzbeocmyx
hgkxebcgdvxsxiegog.ezsrmesmbxegsiekczs,egsiercxebjzsemheczbekcxxjbeogb
idgoseuqzrxerxsbxemaxdeczbemqrbrgsizs elmsxbte.xrerczbexngkzgrzms
bxxnxiermelxeczbesgrqdgyecglzr,egsieiqxermesmeizbxgbx,ehmdeczbex.xeogb
ldz cr,eczbebrxveldzbj,egsieczbelxgdzs egbbqdxiteCxeogbevygzsy.elqr
sxgry.eidxbbxi,egsieczbeg x,eZebcmqyiefqi x,eomqyielxesxgdxdehmdr.ercgs
rczdr.t

“‘NdteCgrcxdyx.?’ebgziecx,eozrcebmnxrczs emhege xdngsegkkxsrte‘.mqecgax
lxxsedxkmnnxsixiermenx,eNdteCgrcxdyx.,egbelxzs egengseocmezbesmremsy.
vdmhzkzxsrezseczbevdmhxbbzmselqrezbegybmeizbkdxxregsiekgvglyxemh
vdxbxdazs egebxkdxrt’

“Zelmoxi,ehxxyzs egbehygrrxdxiegbegs.e.mqs engseomqyiegrebqkcegs
giidxbbte‘Ng.eZegbjeocmezreogbeocme gaxenxebme mmiegekcgdgkrxd?’

“‘Oxyy,evxdcgvbezrezbelxrrxdercgreZebcmqyiesmrerxyye.mqercgrefqbregr
rczbenmnxsrteZecgaxezrehdmnercxebgnxebmqdkxercgre.mqegdxelmrcegsemdvcgs
gsiegelgkcxymdegsiegdxedxbzizs egymsxezseYmsimst’

“‘Rcgrezbeuqzrxekmddxkr,’eZegsboxdxi;e‘lqre.mqeozyyexpkqbxenxezheZebg.
rcgreZekgssmrebxxecmoegyyerczbelxgdbeqvmsen.evdmhxbbzmsgy
uqgyzhzkgrzmsbteZeqsixdbrgsiercgrezreogbemsegevdmhxbbzmsgyengrrxdercgr
.mqeozbcxiermebvxgjermenx?’

“‘Qsimqlrxiy.ebmteLqre.mqeozyyehzsiercgregyyeZebg.ezbedxgyy.ermercx
vmzsrteZecgaxegevdmhxbbzmsgyekmnnzbbzmsehmde.mq,elqreglbmyqrxebxkdxk.
zbeuqzrxexbbxsrzgy—glbmyqrxebxkdxk.,e.mqeqsixdbrgsi,egsiemhekmqdbxeox
ng.expvxkrercgrenmdxehdmnegengseocmezbegymsxercgsehdmnemsxeocmeyzaxbezs
rcxelmbmnemheczbehgnzy.t’

“‘ZheZevdmnzbxermejxxvegebxkdxr,’ebgzieZ,e‘.mqeng.eglbmyqrxy.eixvxsi
qvmsen.eimzs ebmt’

“Cxeymmjxieaxd.ecgdiegrenxegbeZebvmjx,egsiezrebxxnxiermenxercgreZecgi
sxaxdebxxsebmebqbvzkzmqbegsieuqxbrzmszs egsex.xt

“‘Ime.mqevdmnzbx,ercxs?’ebgziecxegreygbrt

“‘.xb,eZevdmnzbxt’

“‘Glbmyqrxegsiekmnvyxrxebzyxskxelxhmdx,eiqdzs ,egsieghrxd?eSmedxhxdxskx
rmercxengrrxdegregyy,exzrcxdezseomdiemdeodzrzs ?’

“‘Zecgaxegydxgi.e zaxse.mqen.eomdit’

“‘Axd.e mmit’eCxebqiixsy.ebvdgs eqv,egsieigdrzs eyzjxeyz crszs egkdmbb
rcxedmmnecxehyqs emvxsercxeimmdteRcxevgbbg xemqrbzixeogbexnvr.t

“‘Rcgr’begyyedz cr,’ebgziecx,ekmnzs elgkjte‘Zejsmoercgrekyxdjbegdx
bmnxrznxbekqdzmqbegbermercxzdengbrxd’beghhgzdbteSmoeoxekgsergyjezs
bghxr.t’eCxeidxoeqveczbekcgzdeaxd.ekymbxermenzsxegsielx gsermebrgdxegr
nxeg gzseozrcercxebgnxeuqxbrzmszs egsiercmq crhqyeymmjt

“Gehxxyzs emhedxvqybzms,egsiemhebmnxrczs egjzsermehxgdecgielx qserm
dzbxeozrczsenxegrercxebrdgs xegsrzkbemherczbehyxbcyxbbengsteXaxsen.
idxgiemheymbzs egekyzxsrekmqyiesmredxbrdgzsenxehdmnebcmozs en.
znvgrzxskxt

“‘Zelx ercgre.mqeozyyebrgrxe.mqdelqbzsxbb,ebzd,’ebgzieZ;e‘n.erznxezbemh
agyqxt’eCxgaxsehmd zaxenxehmdercgreygbrebxsrxskx,elqrercxeomdibekgnxerm
n.eyzvbt

“‘Cmoeomqyiehzhr.e qzsxgbehmdegesz cr’beomdjebqzre.mq?’ecxegbjxit

“‘Nmbreginzdgly.t’

“‘Zebg.egesz cr’beomdj,elqregsecmqd’beomqyielxesxgdxdercxengdjteZ
bznvy.eogsre.mqdemvzszmseglmqregec.idgqyzkebrgnvzs engkczsxeoczkcecgb
 mremqremhe xgdteZhe.mqebcmoeqbeocgrezbeodms eoxebcgyyebmmsebxrezr
dz cremqdbxyaxbteOcgreime.mqerczsjemhebqkcegekmnnzbbzmsegbercgr?’

“‘Rcxeomdjegvvxgdbermelxeyz cregsiercxevg.enqszhzkxsrt’

“‘Vdxkzbxy.ebmteOxebcgyyeogsre.mqermekmnxerm-sz crel.ercxeygbrerdgzst’

“‘Ocxdxerm?’

“‘RmeX.hmdi,ezseLxdjbczdxteZrezbegeyzrryxevygkxesxgdercxelmdixdbemh
Mphmdibczdx,egsieozrczsebxaxsenzyxbemheDxgizs teRcxdxezbegerdgzsehdmn
Vgiizs rmseoczkceomqyieldzs e.mqercxdxegreglmqre11:15t’

“‘Axd.e mmit’

“‘Zebcgyyekmnxeimosezsegekgddzg xermenxxre.mqt’

“‘Rcxdxezbegeidzax,ercxs?’

“‘.xb,emqdeyzrryxevygkxezbeuqzrxemqrezsercxekmqsrd.teZrezbege mmiebxaxs
nzyxbehdmneX.hmdieBrgrzmst’

“‘Rcxseoxekgsecgdiy.e xrercxdxelxhmdxenzisz crteZebqvvmbxercxdxeomqyi
lxesmekcgskxemhegerdgzselgkjteZebcmqyielxekmnvxyyxiermebrmvercxesz crt’

“‘.xb,eoxekmqyiexgbzy.e zaxe.mqegebcgjx-imost’

“‘Rcgrezbeaxd.egojogditeKmqyieZesmrekmnxegrebmnxenmdxekmsaxszxsrecmqd?’

“‘Oxecgaxefqi xiezrelxbrercgre.mqebcmqyiekmnxeygrxteZrezbermedxkmnvxsbx
.mqehmdegs.ezskmsaxszxskxercgreoxegdxevg.zs erme.mq,ege.mqs egsi
qsjsmosengs,egehxxeoczkceomqyielq.egsemvzszmsehdmnercxeaxd.ecxgibemh
.mqdevdmhxbbzmsteBrzyy,emhekmqdbx,ezhe.mqeomqyieyzjxermeidgoemqremhercx
lqbzsxbb,ercxdxezbevyxsr.emherznxermeimebmt’

“Zercmq cremhercxehzhr.e qzsxgb,egsiemhecmoeaxd.eqbxhqyercx.eomqyielx
rmenxte‘Smregregyy,’ebgzieZ,e‘Zebcgyyelxeaxd.ecgvv.ermegkkmnnmigrx
n.bxyherme.mqdeozbcxbteZebcmqyieyzjx,ecmoxaxd,ermeqsixdbrgsiegeyzrryx
nmdxekyxgdy.eocgrezrezbercgre.mqeozbcenxermeimt’

“‘UqzrxebmteZrezbeaxd.esgrqdgyercgrercxevyxi xemhebxkdxk.eoczkceoxecgax
xpgkrxiehdmne.mqebcmqyiecgaxegdmqbxie.mqdekqdzmbzr.teZecgaxesmeozbcerm
kmnnzre.mqermegs.rczs eozrcmqre.mqdecgazs ezregyyeygzielxhmdxe.mqteZ
bqvvmbxercgreoxegdxeglbmyqrxy.ebghxehdmnexgaxbidmvvxdb?’

“‘Xsrzdxy.t’

“‘Rcxsercxengrrxdebrgsibercqbte.mqegdxevdmlgly.egogdxercgr
hqyyxd’b-xgdrcezbegeagyqglyxevdmiqkr,egsiercgrezrezbemsy.ehmqsiezsemsx
mderomevygkxbezseXs ygsi?’

“‘Zecgaxecxgdiebmt’

“‘Bmnxeyzrryxerznxeg meZelmq cregebngyyevygkx—geaxd.ebngyyevygkx—ozrczs
rxsenzyxbemheDxgizs teZeogbehmdrqsgrxexsmq cermeizbkmaxdercgrercxdxeogb
geixvmbzremhehqyyxd’b-xgdrcezsemsxemhen.ehzxyibteMsexpgnzszs ezr,
cmoxaxd,eZehmqsiercgrerczbeixvmbzreogbegekmnvgdgrzaxy.ebngyyemsx,egsi
rcgrezrehmdnxiegeyzsjelxroxxseromeaxd.enqkceygd xdemsxbeqvmsercxedz cr
gsieyxhr—lmrcemhercxn,ecmoxaxd,ezsercxe dmqsibemhen.esxz clmqdbteRcxbx
 mmievxmvyxeoxdxeglbmyqrxy.ez smdgsrercgrercxzdeygsiekmsrgzsxiercgr
oczkceogbeuqzrxegbeagyqglyxegbege myi-nzsxteSgrqdgyy.,ezreogbermen.
zsrxdxbrermelq.ercxzdeygsielxhmdxercx.eizbkmaxdxiezrberdqxeagyqx,elqr
qshmdrqsgrxy.eZecgiesmekgvzrgyel.eoczkceZekmqyieimerczbteZermmjegehxo
mhen.ehdzxsibezsrmercxebxkdxr,ecmoxaxd,egsiercx.ebq  xbrxiercgreox
bcmqyieuqzxry.egsiebxkdxry.eomdjemqdemoseyzrryxeixvmbzregsiercgrezs
rczbeog.eoxebcmqyiexgdsercxenmsx.eoczkceomqyiexsglyxeqbermelq.ercx
sxz clmqdzs ehzxyibteRczbeoxecgaxesmoelxxseimzs ehmdebmnxerznx,egsiezs
mdixdermecxyveqbezsemqdemvxdgrzmsbeoxexdxkrxiegec.idgqyzkevdxbbteRczb
vdxbb,egbeZecgaxegydxgi.expvygzsxi,ecgbe mremqremhemdixd,egsieoxeozbc
.mqdegiazkxeqvmsercxebqlfxkrteOxe qgdiemqdebxkdxreaxd.efxgymqby.,
cmoxaxd,egsiezhezremskxelxkgnxejsmosercgreoxecgiec.idgqyzkexs zsxxdb
kmnzs ermemqdeyzrryxecmqbx,ezreomqyiebmmsedmqbxezsuqzd.,egsiercxs,ezh
rcxehgkrbekgnxemqr,ezreomqyielxe mmi-l.xermegs.ekcgskxemhe xrrzs ercxbx
hzxyibegsiekgdd.zs emqremqdevygsbteRcgrezbeoc.eZecgaxengixe.mqevdmnzbx
nxercgre.mqeozyyesmrerxyyegecqngselxzs ercgre.mqegdxe mzs ermeX.hmdi
rm-sz crteZecmvxercgreZengjxezregyyevygzs?’

“‘Zeuqzrxehmyymoe.mq,’ebgzieZte‘Rcxemsy.evmzsreoczkceZekmqyiesmreuqzrx
qsixdbrgsieogbeocgreqbxe.mqekmqyiengjxemhegec.idgqyzkevdxbbezs
xpkgagrzs ehqyyxd’b-xgdrc,eoczkc,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,ezbeiq emqreyzjx
 dgaxyehdmnegevzrt’

“‘Gc!’ebgziecxekgdxyxbby.,e‘oxecgaxemqdemosevdmkxbbteOxekmnvdxbbercx
xgdrcezsrmeldzkjb,ebmegbermedxnmaxercxneozrcmqredxaxgyzs eocgrercx.
gdxteLqrercgrezbegenxdxeixrgzyteZecgaxergjxse.mqehqyy.ezsrmen.
kmshzixskxesmo,eNdteCgrcxdyx.,egsieZecgaxebcmose.mqecmoeZerdqbre.mqt’
Cxedmbxegbecxebvmjxte‘Zebcgyyexpvxkre.mq,ercxs,egreX.hmdiegre11:15t’

“‘Zebcgyyekxdrgzsy.elxercxdxt’

“‘Gsiesmregeomdiermegebmqyt’eCxeymmjxiegrenxeozrcegeygbreyms ,
uqxbrzmszs e gwx,egsiercxs,evdxbbzs en.ecgsiezsegekmyi,eigsje dgbv,ecx
cqddzxiehdmnercxedmmnt

“Oxyy,eocxseZekgnxermerczsjezregyyemaxdezsekmmyelymmieZeogbeaxd.enqkc
gbrmszbcxi,egbe.mqeng.elmrcerczsj,egrerczbebqiixsekmnnzbbzmseoczkcecgi
lxxsezsrdqbrxiermenxteMsercxemsxecgsi,emhekmqdbx,eZeogbe ygi,ehmdercx
hxxeogbegreyxgbrerxshmyieocgreZebcmqyiecgaxegbjxiecgieZebxregevdzkx
qvmsen.emosebxdazkxb,egsiezreogbevmbbzlyxercgrerczbemdixdenz creyxgierm
mrcxdemsxbteMsercxemrcxdecgsi,ercxehgkxegsiengssxdemhen.evgrdmsecgi
ngixegseqsvyxgbgsreznvdxbbzmseqvmsenx,egsieZekmqyiesmrerczsjercgreczb
xpvygsgrzmsemhercxehqyyxd’b-xgdrceogbebqhhzkzxsrermexpvygzsercx
sxkxbbzr.ehmden.ekmnzs egrenzisz cr,egsieczbexprdxnxegspzxr.eyxbreZ
bcmqyierxyyegs.msxemhen.exddgsiteCmoxaxd,eZercdxoegyyehxgdbermercx
ozsib,egrxegecxgdr.ebqvvxd,eidmaxermeVgiizs rms,egsiebrgdrxiemhh,
cgazs emlx.xiermercxeyxrrxdercxezsfqskrzmsegbermecmyizs en.erms qxt

“GreDxgizs eZecgiermekcgs xesmremsy.en.ekgddzg xelqren.ebrgrzmst
Cmoxaxd,eZeogbezserznxehmdercxeygbrerdgzsermeX.hmdi,egsieZedxgkcxiercx
yzrryxeizn-yzrebrgrzmseghrxdexyxaxsem’kymkjteZeogbercxemsy.evgbbxs xd
ocme mremqrercxdx,egsiercxdxeogbesmemsxeqvmsercxevygrhmdnebgaxegebzs yx
byxxv.evmdrxdeozrcegeygsrxdsteGbeZevgbbxiemqrercdmq cercxeozkjxre grx,
cmoxaxd,eZehmqsien.egkuqgzsrgskxemhercxenmdszs eogzrzs ezsercxebcgimo
qvmsercxemrcxdebzixteOzrcmqregeomdiecxe dgbvxien.egdnegsiecqddzxienx
zsrmegekgddzg x,ercxeimmdemheoczkceogbebrgsizs emvxsteCxeidxoeqvercx
ozsimobemsexzrcxdebzix,ergvvxiemsercxeommi-omdj,egsiegog.eoxeoxsregb
hgbregbercxecmdbxekmqyie mt”

“Msxecmdbx?”ezsrxdfxkrxieCmynxbt

“.xb,emsy.emsxt”

“Izie.mqemlbxdaxercxekmymqd?”

“.xb,eZebgoezrel.ercxebzix-yz crbeocxseZeogbebrxvvzs ezsrmercx
kgddzg xteZreogbegekcxbrsqrt”

“Rzdxi-ymmjzs emdehdxbc?”

“Mc,ehdxbcegsie ymbb.t”

“Rcgsje.mqteZegnebmdd.ermecgaxezsrxddqvrxie.mqteVdg.ekmsrzsqxe.mqdenmbr
zsrxdxbrzs ebrgrxnxsrt”

“Gog.eoxeoxsrercxs,egsieoxeidmaxehmdegreyxgbregsecmqdteKmymsxyeY.bgsixd
Brgdjecgiebgziercgrezreogbemsy.ebxaxsenzyxb,elqreZebcmqyierczsj,ehdmn
rcxedgrxercgreoxebxxnxierme m,egsiehdmnercxerznxercgreoxermmj,ercgrezr
nqbrecgaxelxxsesxgdxderoxyaxteCxebgregren.ebzixezsebzyxskxegyyercx
rznx,egsieZeogbegogdx,enmdxercgsemskxeocxseZe ygskxiezseczbeizdxkrzms,
rcgrecxeogbeymmjzs egrenxeozrce dxgrezsrxsbzr.teRcxekmqsrd.edmgibebxxn
rmelxesmreaxd.e mmiezsercgrevgdremhercxeomdyi,ehmdeoxeyqdkcxiegsi
fmyrxierxddzly.teZerdzxiermeymmjemqremhercxeozsimobermebxxebmnxrczs emh
ocxdxeoxeoxdx,elqrercx.eoxdxengixemhehdmbrxie ygbb,egsieZekmqyiengjx
mqresmrczs ebgaxercxemkkgbzmsgyeldz crelyqdemhegevgbbzs eyz crteSmoegsi
rcxseZecgwgdixiebmnxedxngdjermeldxgjercxenmsmrms.emhercxefmqdsx.,elqr
rcxekmymsxyegsboxdxiemsy.ezsenmsmb.yyglyxb,egsiercxekmsaxdbgrzmsebmms
hyg  xiteGreygbr,ecmoxaxd,ercxelqnvzs emhercxedmgieogbexpkcgs xiehmd
rcxekdzbvebnmmrcsxbbemhege dgaxy-idzax,egsiercxekgddzg xekgnxermeg
brgsiteKmymsxyeY.bgsixdeBrgdjebvdgs emqr,egsi,egbeZehmyymoxieghrxdeczn,
vqyyxienxebozhry.ezsrmegevmdkceoczkce gvxiezsehdmsremheqbteOxebrxvvxi,
gbezreoxdx,edz cremqremhercxekgddzg xegsiezsrmercxecgyy,ebmercgreZ
hgzyxiermekgrkcercxenmbrehyxxrzs e ygskxemhercxehdmsremhercxecmqbxteRcx
zsbrgsrercgreZecgiekdmbbxiercxercdxbcmyiercxeimmdebygnnxiecxgazy.
lxczsieqb,egsieZecxgdiehgzsry.ercxedgrryxemhercxeocxxybegbercxekgddzg x
idmaxegog.t

“Zreogbevzrkceigdjezsbzixercxecmqbx,egsiercxekmymsxyehqnlyxieglmqr
ymmjzs ehmdengrkcxbegsienqrrxdzs eqsixdeczbeldxgrcteBqiixsy.egeimmd
mvxsxiegrercxemrcxdexsiemhercxevgbbg x,egsiegeyms ,e myixselgdemheyz cr
bcmremqrezsemqdeizdxkrzmsteZre dxoeldmgixd,egsiegeomngsegvvxgdxieozrceg
ygnvezsecxdecgsi,eoczkcebcxecxyieglmaxecxdecxgi,evqbczs ecxdehgkx
hmdogdiegsievxxdzs egreqbteZekmqyiebxxercgrebcxeogbevdxrr.,egsiehdmn
rcxe ymbbeozrceoczkcercxeyz crebcmsxeqvmsecxdeigdjeidxbbeZejsxoercgrezr
ogbegedzkcengrxdzgyteBcxebvmjxegehxoeomdibezsegehmdxz serms qxezseg
rmsxegbercmq cegbjzs egeuqxbrzms,egsieocxsen.ekmnvgszmsegsboxdxiezseg
 dqhhenmsmb.yyglyxebcxe gaxebqkcegebrgdrercgrercxeygnvesxgdy.ehxyyehdmn
cxdecgsiteKmymsxyeBrgdjeoxsreqvermecxd,eoczbvxdxiebmnxrczs ezsecxdexgd,
gsiercxs,evqbczs ecxdelgkjezsrmercxedmmnehdmneocxskxebcxecgiekmnx,ecx
ogyjxiermogdibenxeg gzseozrcercxeygnvezseczbecgsit

“‘Vxdcgvbe.mqeozyyecgaxercxejzsisxbbermeogzrezserczbedmmnehmdegehxo
nzsqrxb,’ebgziecx,ercdmozs emvxsegsmrcxdeimmdteZreogbegeuqzxr,eyzrryx,
vygzsy.ehqdszbcxiedmmn,eozrcegedmqsierglyxezsercxekxsrdx,emseoczkc
bxaxdgye xdngselmmjbeoxdxebkgrrxdxiteKmymsxyeBrgdjeygzieimosercxeygnv
msercxermvemhegecgdnmszqnelxbzixercxeimmdte‘Zebcgyyesmrejxxve.mq
ogzrzs egsezsbrgsr,’ebgziecx,egsieagszbcxiezsrmercxeigdjsxbbt

“Ze ygskxiegrercxelmmjbeqvmsercxerglyx,egsiezsebvzrxemhen.ez smdgskxemh
 xdngseZekmqyiebxxercgreromemhercxneoxdxerdxgrzbxbemsebkzxskx,ercx
mrcxdbelxzs eamyqnxbemhevmxrd.teRcxseZeogyjxiegkdmbbermercxeozsimo,
cmvzs ercgreZenz crekgrkcebmnxe yznvbxemhercxekmqsrd.-bzix,elqregsemgj
bcqrrxd,ecxgazy.elgddxi,eogbehmyixiegkdmbbezrteZreogbegeomsixdhqyy.
bzyxsrecmqbxteRcxdxeogbegsemyiekymkjerzkjzs eymqiy.ebmnxocxdxezsercx
vgbbg x,elqremrcxdozbxexaxd.rczs eogbeixgiy.ebrzyyteGeag qxehxxyzs emh
qsxgbzsxbbelx gsermebrxgyemaxdenxteOcmeoxdxercxbxe xdngsevxmvyx,egsi
ocgreoxdxercx.eimzs eyzazs ezserczbebrdgs x,emqr-mh-rcx-og.evygkx?eGsi
ocxdxeogbercxevygkx?eZeogberxsenzyxbemdebmehdmneX.hmdi,ercgreogbegyyeZ
jsxo,elqreocxrcxdesmdrc,ebmqrc,exgbr,emdeoxbreZecgiesmezixgteHmdercgr
ngrrxd,eDxgizs ,egsievmbbzly.emrcxdeygd xermosb,eoxdxeozrczsercgr
dgizqb,ebmercxevygkxenz cresmrelxebmebxkyqixi,eghrxdegyyte.xrezreogb
uqzrxekxdrgzs,ehdmnercxeglbmyqrxebrzyysxbb,ercgreoxeoxdxezsercx
kmqsrd.teZevgkxieqvegsieimosercxedmmn,ecqnnzs egerqsxeqsixden.eldxgrc
rmejxxveqven.ebvzdzrbegsiehxxyzs ercgreZeogbercmdmq cy.exgdszs en.
hzhr.- qzsxgehxxt

“Bqiixsy.,eozrcmqregs.evdxyznzsgd.ebmqsiezsercxenzibremhercxeqrrxd
brzyysxbb,ercxeimmdemhen.edmmneboqs ebymoy.emvxsteRcxeomngseogb
brgsizs ezsercxegvxdrqdx,ercxeigdjsxbbemhercxecgyyelxczsiecxd,ercx
.xyymoeyz crehdmnen.eygnvelxgrzs eqvmsecxdexg xdegsielxgqrzhqyehgkxteZ
kmqyiebxxegrege ygskxercgrebcxeogbebzkjeozrcehxgd,egsiercxebz crebxsreg
kczyyermen.emosecxgdrteBcxecxyieqvemsxebcgjzs ehzs xdermeogdsenxermelx
bzyxsr,egsiebcxebcmregehxoeoczbvxdxieomdibemheldmjxseXs yzbcegrenx,ecxd
x.xbe ygskzs elgkj,eyzjxercmbxemhegehdz crxsxiecmdbx,ezsrmercxe ymmn
lxczsiecxdt

“‘Zeomqyie m,’ebgziebcx,erd.zs ecgdi,egbezrebxxnxiermenx,ermebvxgj
kgyny.;e‘Zeomqyie mteZebcmqyiesmrebrg.ecxdxteRcxdxezbesme mmiehmde.mq
rmeimt’

“‘Lqr,engign,’ebgzieZ,e‘Zecgaxesmre.xreimsxeocgreZekgnxehmdteZekgssmr
vmbbzly.eyxgaxeqsrzyeZecgaxebxxsercxengkczsxt’

“‘Zrezbesmreomdrce.mqdeoczyxermeogzr,’ebcxeoxsremste‘.mqekgsevgbb
rcdmq cercxeimmd;esmemsxeczsixdbt’eGsiercxs,ebxxzs ercgreZebnzyxiegsi
bcmmjen.ecxgi,ebcxebqiixsy.ercdxoegbzixecxdekmsbrdgzsregsiengixegebrxv
hmdogdi,eozrcecxdecgsibeodqs erm xrcxdte‘HmdercxeymaxemheCxgaxs!’ebcx
oczbvxdxi,e‘ xregog.ehdmnecxdxelxhmdxezrezbermmeygrx!’

“LqreZegnebmnxocgrecxgibrdms el.esgrqdx,egsiercxenmdxedxgi.ermexs g x
zsegseghhgzdeocxsercxdxezbebmnxemlbrgkyxezsercxeog.teZercmq cremhen.
hzhr.- qzsxgehxx,emhen.eoxgdzbmnxefmqdsx.,egsiemhercxeqsvyxgbgsresz cr
oczkcebxxnxiermelxelxhmdxenxteOgbezregyyerme mehmdesmrczs ?eOc.ebcmqyi
Zebyzsjegog.eozrcmqrecgazs ekgddzxiemqren.ekmnnzbbzms,egsieozrcmqrercx
vg.nxsreoczkceogben.eiqx?eRczbeomngsenz cr,ehmdegyyeZejsxo,elxeg
nmsmngszgkteOzrcegebrmqrelxgdzs ,ercxdxhmdx,ercmq cecxdengssxdecgi
bcgjxsenxenmdxercgseZekgdxiermekmshxbb,eZebrzyyebcmmjen.ecxgiegsi
ixkygdxien.ezsrxsrzmsemhedxngzszs eocxdxeZeogbteBcxeogbeglmqrermedxsxo
cxdexsrdxgrzxbeocxsegeimmdebygnnxiemaxdcxgi,egsiercxebmqsiemhebxaxdgy
hmmrbrxvbeogbecxgdieqvmsercxebrgzdbteBcxeyzbrxsxiehmdegsezsbrgsr,ercdxo
qvecxdecgsibeozrcegeixbvgzdzs e xbrqdx,egsieagszbcxiegbebqiixsy.egsiegb
smzbxyxbby.egbebcxecgiekmnxt

“RcxesxokmnxdbeoxdxeKmymsxyeY.bgsixdeBrgdjegsiegebcmdrerczkjengseozrceg
kczskczyygelxgdie dmozs emqremhercxekdxgbxbemheczbeimqlyxekczs,eocmeogb
zsrdmiqkxiermenxegbeNdteHxd qbmst

“‘Rczbezben.ebxkdxrgd.egsiengsg xd,’ebgziercxekmymsxyte‘L.ercxeog.,eZ
ogbeqsixdercxeznvdxbbzmsercgreZeyxhrerczbeimmdebcqrefqbresmoteZehxgd
rcgre.mqecgaxehxyrercxeidgq crt’

“‘Msercxekmsrdgd.,’ebgzieZ,e‘Zemvxsxiercxeimmden.bxyhelxkgqbxeZehxyr
rcxedmmnermelxegeyzrryxekymbxt’

“Cxebcmremsxemheczbebqbvzkzmqbeymmjbegrenxte‘Vxdcgvbeoxecgielxrrxd
vdmkxxiermelqbzsxbb,ercxs,’ebgziecxte‘NdteHxd qbmsegsieZeozyyergjxe.mq
qvermebxxercxengkczsxt’

“‘Zecgielxrrxdevqren.ecgrems,eZebqvvmbxt’

“‘Mc,esm,ezrezbezsercxecmqbxt’

“‘Ocgr,e.mqeiz ehqyyxd’b-xgdrcezsercxecmqbx?’

“‘Sm,esmteRczbezbemsy.eocxdxeoxekmnvdxbbezrteLqresxaxdenzsiercgrteGyy
oxeozbce.mqermeimezbermexpgnzsxercxengkczsxegsiermeyxreqbejsmoeocgrezb
odms eozrcezrt’

“Oxeoxsreqvbrgzdberm xrcxd,ercxekmymsxyehzdbreozrcercxeygnv,ercxehgr
ngsg xdegsieZelxczsiecznteZreogbegeygl.dzsrcemhegsemyiecmqbx,eozrc
kmddzimdb,evgbbg xb,esgddmoeozsizs ebrgzdkgbxb,egsieyzrryxeymoeimmdb,
rcxercdxbcmyibemheoczkceoxdxecmyymoxiemqrel.ercxe xsxdgrzmsbeocmecgi
kdmbbxiercxnteRcxdxeoxdxesmekgdvxrbegsiesmebz sbemhegs.ehqdszrqdxeglmax
rcxe dmqsiehymmd,eoczyxercxevygbrxdeogbevxxyzs emhhercxeogyyb,egsiercx
ignveogbeldxgjzs ercdmq cezse dxxs,eqscxgyrc.elymrkcxbteZerdzxiermevqr
msegbeqskmskxdsxiegsegzdegbevmbbzlyx,elqreZecgiesmrehmd mrrxsercx
ogdszs bemhercxeygi.,exaxsercmq ceZeizbdx gdixiercxn,egsieZejxvregejxxs
x.xeqvmsen.eromekmnvgszmsbteHxd qbmsegvvxgdxiermelxegenmdmbxegsiebzyxsr
ngs,elqreZekmqyiebxxehdmnercxeyzrryxercgrecxebgziercgrecxeogbegreyxgbr
gehxyymo-kmqsrd.ngst

“KmymsxyeY.bgsixdeBrgdjebrmvvxiegreygbrelxhmdxegeymoeimmd,eoczkcecx
qsymkjxiteOzrczseogbegebngyy,ebuqgdxedmmn,ezseoczkcercxercdxxemheqb
kmqyiecgdiy.e xregremsxerznxteHxd qbmsedxngzsxiemqrbzix,egsiercx
kmymsxyeqbcxdxienxezst

“‘Oxegdxesmo,’ebgziecx,e‘gkrqgyy.eozrczsercxec.idgqyzkevdxbb,egsiezr
omqyielxegevgdrzkqygdy.eqsvyxgbgsrerczs ehmdeqbezhegs.msxeoxdxermerqds
zremsteRcxekxzyzs emherczbebngyyekcgnlxdezbedxgyy.ercxexsiemhercx
ixbkxsizs evzbrms,egsiezrekmnxbeimoseozrcercxehmdkxemhengs.ermsbeqvms
rczbenxrgyehymmdteRcxdxegdxebngyyeygrxdgyekmyqnsbemheogrxdemqrbzix
oczkcedxkxzaxercxehmdkx,egsieoczkcerdgsbnzregsienqyrzvy.ezrezsercx
ngssxdeoczkcezbehgnzyzgderme.mqteRcxengkczsxe mxbedxgizy.exsmq c,elqr
rcxdxezbebmnxebrzhhsxbbezsercxeomdjzs emhezr,egsiezrecgbeymbregeyzrryx
mhezrbehmdkxteVxdcgvbe.mqeozyyecgaxercxe mmisxbbermeymmjezremaxdegsierm
bcmoeqbecmoeoxekgsebxrezredz crt’

“Zermmjercxeygnvehdmneczn,egsieZexpgnzsxiercxengkczsxeaxd.ercmdmq cy.t
Zreogbezsixxiege z gsrzkemsx,egsiekgvglyxemhexpxdkzbzs exsmdnmqb
vdxbbqdxteOcxseZevgbbxiemqrbzix,ecmoxaxd,egsievdxbbxieimosercxeyxaxdb
oczkcekmsrdmyyxiezr,eZejsxoegremskxel.ercxeoczbczs ebmqsiercgrercxdx
ogbegebyz creyxgjg x,eoczkcegyymoxiegedx qd zrgrzmsemheogrxdercdmq c
msxemhercxebzixek.yzsixdbteGsexpgnzsgrzmsebcmoxiercgremsxemhercx
zsizg-dqllxdelgsibeoczkceogbedmqsiercxecxgiemhegeidzazs -dmiecgiebcdqsj
bmegbesmreuqzrxermehzyyercxebmkjxregyms eoczkcezreomdjxiteRczbeogb
kyxgdy.ercxekgqbxemhercxeymbbemhevmoxd,egsieZevmzsrxiezremqrermen.
kmnvgszmsb,eocmehmyymoxien.edxngdjbeaxd.ekgdxhqyy.egsiegbjxiebxaxdgy
vdgkrzkgyeuqxbrzmsbegbermecmoercx.ebcmqyievdmkxxiermebxrezredz crteOcxs
Zecgiengixezrekyxgdermercxn,eZedxrqdsxiermercxengzsekcgnlxdemhercx
ngkczsxegsiermmjege mmieymmjegrezrermebgrzbh.en.emosekqdzmbzr.teZreogb
mlazmqbegrege ygskxercgrercxebrmd.emhercxehqyyxd’b-xgdrceogbercxenxdxbr
hgldzkgrzms,ehmdezreomqyielxeglbqdiermebqvvmbxercgrebmevmoxdhqyegs
xs zsxekmqyielxeixbz sxiehmdebmezsgixuqgrxegevqdvmbxteRcxeogyybeoxdxemh
ommi,elqrercxehymmdekmsbzbrxiemhegeygd xezdmserdmq c,egsieocxseZekgnx
rmexpgnzsxezreZekmqyiebxxegekdqbremhenxrgyyzkeixvmbzregyyemaxdezrteZ
cgiebrmmvxiegsieogbebkdgvzs egrerczbermebxxexpgkry.eocgrezreogbeocxseZ
cxgdiegenqrrxdxiexpkygngrzmsezse xdngsegsiebgoercxekgigaxdmqbehgkxemh
rcxekmymsxyeymmjzs eimosegrenxt

“‘Ocgregdxe.mqeimzs ercxdx?’ecxegbjxit

“Zehxyregs d.egrecgazs elxxserdzkjxiel.ebmexyglmdgrxegebrmd.egbercgr
oczkcecxecgiermyienxte‘Zeogbeginzdzs e.mqdehqyyxd’b-xgdrc,’ebgzieZ;e‘Z
rczsjercgreZebcmqyielxelxrrxdeglyxermegiazbxe.mqegberme.mqdengkczsxezh
Zejsxoeocgrercxexpgkrevqdvmbxeogbehmdeoczkcezreogbeqbxit’

“RcxezsbrgsrercgreZeqrrxdxiercxeomdibeZedx dxrrxiercxedgbcsxbbemhen.
bvxxkcteCzbehgkxebxrecgdi,egsiegelgyxhqyeyz crebvdgs eqvezseczbe dx.
x.xbt

“‘Axd.eoxyy,’ebgziecx,e‘.mqebcgyyejsmoegyyeglmqrercxengkczsxt’eCxermmj
gebrxvelgkjogdi,ebygnnxiercxeyzrryxeimmd,egsierqdsxiercxejx.ezsercx
ymkjteZedqbcxiermogdibezregsievqyyxiegrercxecgsiyx,elqrezreogbeuqzrx
bxkqdx,egsieiziesmre zaxezsercxeyxgbrermen.ejzkjbegsiebcmaxbte‘Cqyym!’
Ze.xyyxite‘Cqyym!eKmymsxy!eYxrenxemqr!’

“Gsiercxsebqiixsy.ezsercxebzyxskxeZecxgdiegebmqsieoczkcebxsren.ecxgdr
zsrmen.enmqrcteZreogbercxekygsjemhercxeyxaxdbegsiercxebozbcemhercx
yxgjzs ek.yzsixdteCxecgiebxrercxexs zsxegreomdjteRcxeygnvebrzyyebrmmi
qvmsercxehymmdeocxdxeZecgievygkxiezreocxsexpgnzszs ercxerdmq cteL.ezrb
yz creZebgoercgrercxelygkjekxzyzs eogbekmnzs eimoseqvmsenx,ebymoy.,
fxdjzy.,elqr,egbesmsxejsxoelxrrxdercgsen.bxyh,eozrcegehmdkxeoczkcenqbr
ozrczsegenzsqrxe dzsienxermegebcgvxyxbbevqyvteZercdxoen.bxyh,
bkdxgnzs ,eg gzsbrercxeimmd,egsieidg  xieozrcen.esgzybegrercxeymkjteZ
znvymdxiercxekmymsxyermeyxrenxemqr,elqrercxedxnmdbxyxbbekygsjzs emhercx
yxaxdbeidmosxien.ekdzxbteRcxekxzyzs eogbemsy.egehmmremderomeglmaxen.
cxgi,egsieozrcen.ecgsieqvdgzbxieZekmqyiehxxyezrbecgdi,edmq cebqdhgkxt
Rcxsezrehygbcxiercdmq cen.enzsiercgrercxevgzsemhen.eixgrceomqyieixvxsi
axd.enqkceqvmsercxevmbzrzmsezseoczkceZenxrezrteZheZeyg.emsen.ehgkxercx
oxz creomqyiekmnxeqvmsen.ebvzsx,egsieZebcqiixdxiermerczsjemhercgr
idxgihqyebsgvteXgbzxdercxemrcxdeog.,evxdcgvb;egsie.xr,ecgieZercxesxdax
rmeyzxegsieymmjeqvegrercgreixgiy.elygkjebcgimoeogaxdzs eimoseqvmsenx?
Gydxgi.eZeogbeqsglyxermebrgsiexdxkr,eocxsen.ex.xekgq crebmnxrczs eoczkc
ldmq crege qbcemhecmvxelgkjermen.ecxgdrt

“Zecgaxebgziercgrercmq cercxehymmdegsiekxzyzs eoxdxemhezdms,ercxeogyyb
oxdxemheommiteGbeZe gaxegeygbrecqddzxie ygskxegdmqsi,eZebgoegerczseyzsx
mhe.xyymoeyz crelxroxxseromemhercxelmgdib,eoczkceldmgixsxiegsi
ldmgixsxiegbegebngyyevgsxyeogbevqbcxielgkjogditeHmdegsezsbrgsreZekmqyi
cgdiy.elxyzxaxercgrecxdxeogbezsixxiegeimmdeoczkceyxiegog.ehdmneixgrct
RcxesxprezsbrgsreZercdxoen.bxyhercdmq c,egsieyg.ecgyh-hgzsrzs eqvmsercx
mrcxdebzixteRcxevgsxyecgiekymbxieg gzselxczsienx,elqrercxekdgbcemhercx
ygnv,egsiegehxoenmnxsrbeghrxdogdibercxekygs emhercxeromebyglbemhenxrgy,
rmyienxecmoesgddmoecgielxxsen.exbkgvxt

“Zeogbedxkgyyxiermen.bxyhel.egehdgsrzkevyqkjzs egren.eodzbr,egsieZ
hmqsien.bxyhey.zs eqvmsercxebrmsxehymmdemhegesgddmoekmddzimd,eoczyxeg
omngselxsremaxdenxegsierq  xiegrenxeozrcecxdeyxhrecgsi,eoczyxebcxecxyi
gekgsiyxezsecxdedz crteZreogbercxebgnxe mmiehdzxsieocmbxeogdszs eZecgi
bmehmmyzbcy.edxfxkrxit

“‘Kmnx!ekmnx!’ebcxekdzxieldxgrcyxbby.te‘Rcx.eozyyelxecxdxezsegenmnxsrt
Rcx.eozyyebxxercgre.mqegdxesmrercxdxteMc,eimesmreogbrxercxebm-vdxkzmqb
rznx,elqrekmnx!’

“Rczberznx,egreyxgbr,eZeiziesmrebkmdsecxdegiazkxteZebrg  xdxiermen.
hxxregsiedgseozrcecxdegyms ercxekmddzimdegsieimosegeozsizs ebrgzdteRcx
ygrrxdeyxiermegsmrcxdeldmgievgbbg x,egsiefqbregbeoxedxgkcxiezreoxecxgdi
rcxebmqsiemhedqsszs ehxxregsiercxebcmqrzs emheromeamzkxb,emsxegsboxdzs 
rcxemrcxdehdmnercxehymmdemseoczkceeoxeoxdxegsiehdmnercxemsxelxsxgrcteN.
 qzixebrmvvxiegsieymmjxieglmqrecxdeyzjxemsxeeocmezbegrecxdeozr’bexsit
Rcxsebcxercdxoemvxsegeimmdeoczkceyxiezsrmegelxidmmn,ercdmq cercxeozsimo
mheoczkcercxenmmseogbebczszs eldz cry.t

“‘Zrezbe.mqdemsy.ekcgskx,’ebgziebcxte‘Zrezbecz c,elqrezreng.elxercgr
.mqekgsefqnvezrt’

“Gbebcxebvmjxegeyz crebvdgs ezsrmeazxoegrercxehqdrcxdexsiemhercx
vgbbg x,egsieZebgoercxeyxgsehz qdxemheKmymsxyeY.bgsixdeBrgdjedqbczs 
hmdogdieozrcegeygsrxdsezsemsxecgsiegsiegeoxgvmseyzjxegelqrkcxd’b
kyxgaxdezsercxemrcxdteZedqbcxiegkdmbbercxelxidmmn,ehyqs emvxsercx
ozsimo,egsieymmjxiemqrteCmoeuqzxregsieboxxregsieocmyxbmnxercxe gdixs
ymmjxiezsercxenmmsyz cr,egsiezrekmqyiesmrelxenmdxercgserczdr.ehxxr
imosteZekygnlxdxiemqreqvmsercxebzyy,elqreZecxbzrgrxiermefqnveqsrzyeZ
bcmqyiecgaxecxgdieocgrevgbbxielxroxxsen.ebgazmqdegsiercxedqhhzgseocm
vqdbqxienxteZhebcxeoxdxezyy-qbxi,ercxsegregs.edzbjbeZeogbeixrxdnzsxierm
 melgkjermecxdegbbzbrgskxteRcxercmq crecgiecgdiy.ehygbcxiercdmq cen.
nzsielxhmdxecxeogbegrercxeimmd,evqbczs eczbeog.evgbrecxd;elqrebcxercdxo
cxdegdnbedmqsiecznegsierdzxiermecmyiecznelgkjt

“‘Hdzrw!eHdzrw!’ebcxekdzxiezseXs yzbc,e‘dxnxnlxde.mqdevdmnzbxeghrxdercx
ygbrerznxte.mqebgziezrebcmqyiesmrelxeg gzsteCxeozyyelxebzyxsr!eMc,ecx
ozyyelxebzyxsr!’

“‘.mqegdxengi,eXyzbx!’ecxebcmqrxi,ebrdq  yzs ermeldxgjegog.ehdmnecxdt
‘.mqeozyyelxercxedqzsemheqbteCxecgbebxxsermmenqkcteYxrenxevgbb,eZebg.!’
Cxeigbcxiecxdermemsxebzix,egsi,edqbczs ermercxeozsimo,ekqregrenxeozrc
czbecxga.eoxgvmsteZecgieyxren.bxyhe m,egsieogbecgs zs el.ercxecgsiberm
rcxebzyy,eocxseczbelymoehxyyteZeogbekmsbkzmqbemhegeiqyyevgzs,en.e dzv
ymmbxsxi,egsieZehxyyezsrmercxe gdixselxymot

“Zeogbebcgjxselqresmrecqdrel.ercxehgyy;ebmeZevzkjxien.bxyheqvegsi
dqbcxiemhhegnms ercxelqbcxbegbecgdiegbeZekmqyiedqs,ehmdeZeqsixdbrmmi
rcgreZeogbehgdehdmnelxzs emqremheigs xde.xrteBqiixsy.,ecmoxaxd,egbeZ
dgs,egeixgiy.eizwwzsxbbegsiebzkjsxbbekgnxemaxdenxteZe ygskxieimosegren.
cgsi,eoczkceogbercdmllzs evgzshqyy.,egsiercxs,ehmdercxehzdbrerznx,ebgo
rcgren.ercqnlecgielxxsekqremhhegsiercgrercxelymmieogbevmqdzs ehdmnen.
omqsiteZexsixgamqdxiermerzxen.ecgsijxdkczxhedmqsiezr,elqrercxdxekgnxeg
bqiixselqwwzs ezsen.exgdb,egsiesxprenmnxsreZehxyyezsegeixgiehgzsregnms 
rcxedmbx-lqbcxbt

“Cmoeyms eZedxngzsxieqskmsbkzmqbeZekgssmrerxyyteZrenqbrecgaxelxxseg
axd.eyms erznx,ehmdercxenmmsecgiebqsj,egsiegeldz crenmdszs eogb
ldxgjzs eocxseZekgnxermen.bxyhteN.ekymrcxbeoxdxegyyebmiixseozrceixo,
gsien.ekmgr-byxxaxeogbeidxskcxieozrcelymmiehdmnen.eomqsixiercqnlteRcx
bngdrzs emhezredxkgyyxiezsegsezsbrgsregyyercxevgdrzkqygdbemhen.esz cr’b
giaxsrqdx,egsieZebvdgs ermen.ehxxreozrcercxehxxyzs ercgreZenz crecgdiy.
.xrelxebghxehdmnen.evqdbqxdbteLqrermen.egbrmszbcnxsr,eocxseZekgnxerm
ymmjedmqsienx,esxzrcxdecmqbxesmde gdixseoxdxermelxebxxsteZecgielxxs
y.zs ezsegsegs yxemhercxecxi xekymbxel.ercxecz cdmgi,egsiefqbregeyzrryx
ymoxdeimoseogbegeyms elqzyizs ,eoczkcevdmaxi,eqvmsen.egvvdmgkczs ezr,
rmelxercxeaxd.ebrgrzmsegreoczkceZecgiegddzaxieqvmsercxevdxazmqbesz crt
Oxdxezresmrehmdercxeq y.eomqsieqvmsen.ecgsi,egyyercgrecgievgbbxieiqdzs 
rcmbxeidxgihqyecmqdbenz crecgaxelxxsegsexazyeidxgnt

“Cgyheigwxi,eZeoxsrezsrmercxebrgrzmsegsiegbjxieglmqrercxenmdszs erdgzst
RcxdxeomqyielxemsxermeDxgizs ezseyxbbercgsegsecmqdteRcxebgnxevmdrxdeogb
mseiqr.,eZehmqsi,egbecgielxxsercxdxeocxseZegddzaxiteZezsuqzdxiemheczn
ocxrcxdecxecgiexaxdecxgdiemheKmymsxyeY.bgsixdeBrgdjteRcxesgnxeogb
brdgs xermecznteCgiecxemlbxdaxiegekgddzg xercxesz crelxhmdxeogzrzs ehmd
nx?eSm,ecxecgiesmrteOgbercxdxegevmyzkx-brgrzmsegs.ocxdxesxgd?eRcxdxeogb
msxeglmqrercdxxenzyxbemhht

“Zreogbermmehgdehmdenxerme m,eoxgjegsiezyyegbeZeogbteZeixrxdnzsxierm
ogzreqsrzyeZe mrelgkjermermoselxhmdxerxyyzs en.ebrmd.ermercxevmyzkxteZr
ogbegeyzrryxevgbrebzpeocxseZegddzaxi,ebmeZeoxsrehzdbrermecgaxen.eomqsi
idxbbxi,egsiercxsercxeimkrmdeogbejzsiexsmq cermeldzs enxegyms ecxdxteZ
vqrercxekgbxezsrme.mqdecgsibegsiebcgyyeimexpgkry.eocgre.mqegiazbxt”

Oxelmrcebgrezsebzyxskxehmdebmnxeyzrryxerznxeghrxdeyzbrxszs ermerczb
xprdgmdizsgd.esgddgrzaxteRcxseBcxdymkjeCmynxbevqyyxieimosehdmnercx
bcxyhemsxemhercxevmsixdmqbekmnnmsvygkxelmmjbezseoczkcecxevygkxieczb
kqrrzs bt

“Cxdxezbegsegiaxdrzbxnxsreoczkceozyyezsrxdxbre.mq,”ebgziecxte“Zr
gvvxgdxiezsegyyercxevgvxdbeglmqrege.xgdeg mteYzbrxsermerczb:e‘Ymbr,ems
rcxe9rcezsbrt,eNdteFxdxnzgceCg.yzs ,eg xieroxsr.-bzp,egec.idgqyzk
xs zsxxdteYxhreczbeymi zs begrerxsem’kymkjegresz cr,egsiecgbesmrelxxs
cxgdiemhebzskxteOgbeidxbbxiezs,’exrkt,exrkteCg!eRcgredxvdxbxsrbercx
ygbrerznxercgrercxekmymsxyesxxixiermecgaxeczbengkczsxemaxdcgqyxi,eZ
hgsk.t”

“ mmiecxgaxsb!”ekdzxien.evgrzxsrte“Rcxsercgrexpvygzsbeocgrercxe zdy
bgzit”

“Qsimqlrxiy.teZrezbeuqzrxekyxgdercgrercxekmymsxyeogbegekmmyegsi
ixbvxdgrxengs,eocmeogbeglbmyqrxy.eixrxdnzsxiercgresmrczs ebcmqyiebrgsi
zsercxeog.emheczbeyzrryxe gnx,eyzjxercmbxemqr-gsi-mqrevzdgrxbeocmeozyy
yxgaxesmebqdazamdehdmnegekgvrqdxiebczvteOxyy,exaxd.enmnxsresmoezb
vdxkzmqb,ebmezhe.mqehxxyexuqgyermezreoxebcgyye meimosermeBkmrygsie.gdi
gremskxegbegevdxyznzsgd.ermebrgdrzs ehmdeX.hmdit”

Bmnxercdxxecmqdbemdebmeghrxdogdibeoxeoxdxegyyezsercxerdgzserm xrcxd,
lmqsiehdmneDxgizs ermercxeyzrryxeLxdjbczdxeazyyg xteRcxdxeoxdxeBcxdymkj
Cmynxb,ercxec.idgqyzkexs zsxxd,eZsbvxkrmdeLdgibrdxxr,emheBkmrygsie.gdi,
gevygzs-kymrcxbengs,egsien.bxyhteLdgibrdxxrecgiebvdxgiegsemdisgskxengv
mhercxekmqsr.emqreqvmsercxebxgregsieogbelqb.eozrceczbekmnvgbbxbeidgozs 
gekzdkyxeozrceX.hmdiehmdezrbekxsrdxt

“Rcxdxe.mqegdx,”ebgziecxte“Rcgrekzdkyxezbeidgosegregedgizqbemherxs
nzyxbehdmnercxeazyyg xteRcxevygkxeoxeogsrenqbrelxebmnxocxdxesxgdercgr
yzsxte.mqebgzierxsenzyxb,eZerczsj,ebzdt”

“Zreogbegsecmqd’be mmieidzaxt”

“Gsie.mqerczsjercgrercx.eldmq cre.mqelgkjegyyercgreog.eocxse.mqeoxdx
qskmsbkzmqb?”

“Rcx.enqbrecgaxeimsxebmteZecgaxegekmshqbxienxnmd.,ermm,emhecgazs elxxs
yzhrxiegsiekmsax.xiebmnxocxdxt”

“OcgreZekgssmreqsixdbrgsi,”ebgzieZ,e“zbeoc.ercx.ebcmqyiecgaxebvgdxie.mq
ocxsercx.ehmqsie.mqey.zs ehgzsrzs ezsercxe gdixsteVxdcgvbercxeazyygzs
ogbebmhrxsxiel.ercxeomngs’bexsrdxgrzxbt”

“Zecgdiy.erczsjercgreyzjxy.teZesxaxdebgoegenmdxezsxpmdglyxehgkxezsen.
yzhxt”

“Mc,eoxebcgyyebmmsekyxgdeqvegyyercgr,”ebgzieLdgibrdxxrte“Oxyy,eZecgax
idgosen.ekzdkyx,egsieZemsy.eozbceZejsxoegreocgrevmzsreqvmsezrercxehmyj
rcgreoxegdxezsebxgdkcemhegdxermelxehmqsit”

“ZerczsjeZekmqyieyg.en.ehzs xdemsezr,”ebgzieCmynxbeuqzxry.t

“Dxgyy.,esmo!”ekdzxiercxezsbvxkrmd,e“.mqecgaxehmdnxie.mqdemvzszms!
Kmnx,esmo,eoxebcgyyebxxeocmeg dxxbeozrce.mqteZebg.ezrezbebmqrc,ehmdercx
kmqsrd.ezbenmdxeixbxdrxiercxdxt”

“GsieZebg.exgbr,”ebgzien.evgrzxsrt

“Zegnehmdeoxbr,”edxngdjxiercxevygzs-kymrcxbengste“Rcxdxegdxebxaxdgy
uqzxreyzrryxeazyyg xbeqvercxdxt”

“GsieZegnehmdesmdrc,”ebgzieZ,e“lxkgqbxercxdxegdxesmeczyybercxdx,egsi
mqdehdzxsiebg.bercgrecxeiziesmresmrzkxercxekgddzg xe meqvegs.t”

“Kmnx,”ekdzxiercxezsbvxkrmd,eygq czs ;e“zr’begeaxd.evdxrr.eizaxdbzr.emh
mvzszmsteOxecgaxelmpxiercxekmnvgbbegnms eqbteOcmeime.mqe zaxe.mqd
kgbrzs eamrxerm?”

“.mqegdxegyyeodms t”

“Lqreoxekgs’regyyelxt”

“Mc,e.xb,e.mqekgsteRczbezben.evmzsrt”eCxevygkxieczbehzs xdezsercx
kxsrdxemhercxekzdkyxte“Rczbezbeocxdxeoxebcgyyehzsiercxnt”

“Lqrercxeroxyax-nzyxeidzax?”e gbvxieCgrcxdyx.t

“BzpemqregsiebzpelgkjteSmrczs ebznvyxdte.mqebg.e.mqdbxyhercgrercxecmdbx
ogbehdxbcegsie ymbb.eocxse.mqe mrezsteCmoekmqyiezrelxercgrezhezrecgi
 msxeroxyaxenzyxbemaxdecxga.edmgib?”

“Zsixxi,ezrezbegeyzjxy.edqbxexsmq c,”emlbxdaxieLdgibrdxxrercmq crhqyy.t
“Mhekmqdbxercxdxekgselxesmeimqlregbermercxesgrqdxemherczbe gs t”

“Smsxegregyy,”ebgzieCmynxbte“Rcx.egdxekmzsxdbemsegeygd xebkgyx,egsi
cgaxeqbxiercxengkczsxermehmdnercxegngy gneoczkcecgbergjxsercxevygkxemh
bzyaxdt”

“Oxecgaxejsmosehmdebmnxerznxercgregekyxaxde gs eogbegreomdj,”ebgziercx
zsbvxkrmdte“Rcx.ecgaxelxxserqdszs emqrecgyh-kdmosbel.ercxercmqbgsiteOx
xaxserdgkxiercxnegbehgdegbeDxgizs ,elqrekmqyie xresmehgdrcxd,ehmdercx.
cgiekmaxdxiercxzderdgkxbezsegeog.ercgrebcmoxiercgrercx.eoxdxeaxd.emyi
cgsibteLqresmo,ercgsjbermerczbeyqkj.ekcgskx,eZerczsjercgreoxecgaxe mr
rcxnedz crexsmq ct”

Lqrercxezsbvxkrmdeogbenzbrgjxs,ehmdercmbxekdznzsgybeoxdxesmreixbrzsxi
rmehgyyezsrmercxecgsibemhefqbrzkxteGbeoxedmyyxiezsrmeX.hmdieBrgrzmseox
bgoege z gsrzkekmyqnsemhebnmjxeoczkcebrdxgnxieqvehdmnelxczsiegebngyy
kyqnvemherdxxbezsercxesxz clmqdcmmiegsiecqs eyzjxegseznnxsbxembrdzkc
hxgrcxdemaxdercxeygsibkgvxt

“Gecmqbxemsehzdx?”egbjxieLdgibrdxxregbercxerdgzsebrxgnxiemhheg gzsems
zrbeog.t

“.xb,ebzd!”ebgziercxebrgrzms-ngbrxdt

“Ocxseiziezreldxgjemqr?”

“Zecxgdercgrezreogbeiqdzs ercxesz cr,ebzd,elqrezrecgbe mreomdbx,egsi
rcxeocmyxevygkxezbezsegelygwxt”

“Ocmbxecmqbxezbezr?”

“IdteLxkcxd’bt”

“Rxyyenx,”eldmjxezsercxexs zsxxd,e“zbeIdteLxkcxdege xdngs,eaxd.erczs,
ozrcegeyms ,ebcgdvesmbx?”

Rcxebrgrzms-ngbrxdeygq cxiecxgdrzy.te“Sm,ebzd,eIdteLxkcxdezbegs
Xs yzbcngs,egsiercxdxezbs’regengsezsercxevgdzbceocmecgbegelxrrxd-yzsxi
ogzbrkmgrteLqrecxecgbege xsryxngsebrg.zs eozrceczn,egevgrzxsr,egbeZ
qsixdbrgsi,eocmezbegehmdxz sxd,egsiecxeymmjbegbezhegeyzrryxe mmi
Lxdjbczdxelxxheomqyieimecznesmecgdnt”

Rcxebrgrzms-ngbrxdecgiesmrehzszbcxieczbebvxxkcelxhmdxeoxeoxdxegyy
cgbrxszs ezsercxeizdxkrzmsemhercxehzdxteRcxedmgiermvvxiegeymoeczyy,egsi
rcxdxeogbege dxgreozixbvdxgieoczrxogbcxielqzyizs ezsehdmsremheqb,
bvmqrzs ehzdxegrexaxd.ekczsjegsieozsimo,eoczyxezsercxe gdixsezsehdmsr
rcdxxehzdx-xs zsxbeoxdxeagzsy.ebrdzazs ermejxxvercxehygnxbeqsixdt

“Rcgr’bezr!”ekdzxieCgrcxdyx.,ezsezsrxsbxexpkzrxnxsrte“Rcxdxezbercx
 dgaxy-idzax,egsiercxdxegdxercxedmbx-lqbcxbeocxdxeZeyg.teRcgrebxkmsi
ozsimoezbercxemsxercgreZefqnvxiehdmnt”

“Oxyy,egreyxgbr,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“.mqecgaxecgie.mqdedxaxs xeqvmsercxnt
Rcxdxekgselxesmeuqxbrzmsercgrezreogbe.mqdemzy-ygnveoczkc,eocxsezreogb
kdqbcxiezsercxevdxbb,ebxrehzdxermercxeommixseogyyb,ercmq cesmeimqlr
rcx.eoxdxermmexpkzrxiezsercxekcgbxeghrxde.mqermemlbxdaxezregrercxerznxt
Smoejxxve.mqdex.xbemvxsezserczbekdmoiehmde.mqdehdzxsibemheygbresz cr,
rcmq ceZeaxd.enqkcehxgdercgrercx.egdxege mmiecqsidxienzyxbemhhel.esmot”

GsieCmynxb’ehxgdbekgnxermelxedxgyzbxi,ehmdehdmnercgreig.ermerczbesm
omdiecgbexaxdelxxsecxgdiexzrcxdemhercxelxgqrzhqyeomngs,ercxebzszbrxd
 xdngs,emdercxenmdmbxeXs yzbcngsteXgdy.ercgrenmdszs egevxgbgsrecgienxr
gekgdrekmsrgzszs ebxaxdgyevxmvyxegsiebmnxeaxd.elqyj.elmpxbeidzazs 
dgvziy.ezsercxeizdxkrzmsemheDxgizs ,elqrercxdxegyyerdgkxbemhercx
hq zrzaxbeizbgvvxgdxi,egsiexaxseCmynxb’ezs xsqzr.ehgzyxiexaxderm
izbkmaxdercxeyxgbrekyqxegbermercxzdeocxdxglmqrbt

Rcxehzdxnxsecgielxxsenqkcevxdrqdlxiegrercxebrdgs xegddgs xnxsrbeoczkc
rcx.ecgiehmqsieozrczs,egsiebrzyyenmdxebmel.eizbkmaxdzs egesxoy.ebxaxdxi
cqngsercqnleqvmsegeozsimo-bzyyemhercxebxkmsiehymmdteGlmqrebqsbxr,
cmoxaxd,ercxzdexhhmdrbeoxdxegreygbrebqkkxbbhqy,egsiercx.ebqliqxiercx
hygnxb,elqresmrelxhmdxercxedmmhecgiehgyyxsezs,egsiercxeocmyxevygkxelxxs
dxiqkxiermebqkceglbmyqrxedqzsercgr,ebgaxebmnxerozbrxiek.yzsixdbegsi
zdmsevzvzs ,esmregerdgkxedxngzsxiemhercxengkczsxd.eoczkcecgiekmbremqd
qshmdrqsgrxegkuqgzsrgskxebmeixgdy.teYgd xengbbxbemheszkjxyegsiemherzs
oxdxeizbkmaxdxiebrmdxiezsegsemqr-cmqbx,elqresmekmzsbeoxdxermelxehmqsi,
oczkceng.ecgaxexpvygzsxiercxevdxbxskxemhercmbxelqyj.elmpxbeoczkcecgax
lxxsegydxgi.edxhxddxiermt

Cmoemqdec.idgqyzkexs zsxxdecgielxxsekmsax.xiehdmnercxe gdixsermercx
bvmreocxdxecxedxkmaxdxieczbebxsbxbenz crecgaxedxngzsxiehmdxaxdeg
n.brxd.eoxdxezresmrehmdercxebmhrenmqyi,eoczkcermyieqbegeaxd.evygzs
rgyxteCxecgiexazixsry.elxxsekgddzxieimosel.eromevxdbmsb,emsxemheocmn
cgiedxngdjgly.ebngyyehxxregsiercxemrcxdeqsqbqgyy.eygd xemsxbteMsercx
ocmyx,ezreogbenmbrevdmlglyxercgrercxebzyxsreXs yzbcngs,elxzs eyxbbelmyi
mdeyxbbenqdixdmqbercgseczbekmnvgszms,ecgiegbbzbrxiercxeomngsermelxgd
rcxeqskmsbkzmqbengsemqremhercxeog.emheigs xdt

“Oxyy,”ebgziemqdexs zsxxdedqxhqyy.egbeoxermmjemqdebxgrbermedxrqdsemskx
nmdxermeYmsims,e“zrecgbelxxsegevdxrr.elqbzsxbbehmdenx!eZecgaxeymbren.
rcqnlegsieZecgaxeymbregehzhr.- qzsxgehxx,egsieocgrecgaxeZe gzsxi?”

“Xpvxdzxskx,”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs te“Zsizdxkry.ezreng.elxemheagyqx,
.mqejsmo;e.mqecgaxemsy.ermevqrezrezsrmeomdiberme gzsercxedxvqrgrzmsemh
lxzs expkxyyxsrekmnvgs.ehmdercxedxngzsixdemhe.mqdexpzbrxskxt”



PteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeSMLYXeLGKCXYMD

RcxeYmdieBrteBznmsengddzg x,egsiezrbekqdzmqberxdnzsgrzms,ecgaxeyms 
kxgbxiermelxegebqlfxkremhezsrxdxbrezsercmbxexpgyrxiekzdkyxbezseoczkc
rcxeqshmdrqsgrxeldzix dmmnenmaxbteHdxbcebkgsigybecgaxexkyzvbxiezr,egsi
rcxzdenmdxevzuqgsreixrgzybecgaxeidgosercxe mbbzvbegog.ehdmnerczb
hmqd-.xgd-myieidgngteGbeZecgaxedxgbmsermelxyzxax,ecmoxaxd,ercgrercx
hqyyehgkrbecgaxesxaxdelxxsedxaxgyxiermercxe xsxdgyevqlyzk,egsiegben.
hdzxsieBcxdymkjeCmynxbecgiegekmsbzixdglyxebcgdxezsekyxgdzs ercxengrrxd
qv,eZehxxyercgresmenxnmzdemheczneomqyielxekmnvyxrxeozrcmqrebmnxeyzrryx
bjxrkcemherczbedxngdjglyxexvzbmixt

Zreogbegehxoeoxxjbelxhmdxen.emosengddzg x,eiqdzs ercxeig.beocxseZeogb
brzyyebcgdzs edmmnbeozrceCmynxbezseLgjxdeBrdxxr,ercgrecxekgnxecmnxehdmn
gseghrxdsmmsebrdmyyermehzsiegeyxrrxdemsercxerglyxeogzrzs ehmdecznteZ
cgiedxngzsxiezsimmdbegyyeig.,ehmdercxeoxgrcxdecgiergjxsegebqiixserqds
rmedgzs,eozrcecz cegqrqnsgyeozsib,egsiercxefxwgzyelqyyxreoczkceZecgi
ldmq crelgkjezsemsxemhen.eyznlbegbegedxyzkemhen.eGh cgsekgnvgz s
rcdmllxieozrceiqyyevxdbzbrxskxteOzrcen.elmi.ezsemsxexgb.-kcgzdegsien.
yx beqvmsegsmrcxd,eZecgiebqddmqsixien.bxyheozrcegekymqiemhesxobvgvxdb
qsrzyegreygbr,ebgrqdgrxieozrcercxesxobemhercxeig.,eZermbbxiercxnegyy
gbzixegsieyg.eyzbryxbb,eogrkczs ercxecq xekdxbregsienmsm dgneqvmsercx
xsaxymvxeqvmsercxerglyxegsieomsixdzs eygwzy.eocmen.ehdzxsi’besmlyx
kmddxbvmsixsrekmqyielxt

“Cxdxezbegeaxd.ehgbczmsglyxexvzbryx,”eZedxngdjxiegbecxexsrxdxite“.mqd
nmdszs eyxrrxdb,ezheZedxnxnlxdedz cr,eoxdxehdmnegehzbc-nms xdegsieg
rzix-ogzrxdt”

“.xb,en.ekmddxbvmsixskxecgbekxdrgzsy.ercxekcgdnemheagdzxr.,”ecx
gsboxdxi,ebnzyzs ,e“gsiercxecqnlyxdegdxeqbqgyy.ercxenmdxezsrxdxbrzs t
Rczbeymmjbeyzjxemsxemhercmbxeqsoxykmnxebmkzgyebqnnmsbxbeoczkcekgyyeqvms
gengsexzrcxdermelxelmdxiemdermeyzxt”

Cxeldmjxercxebxgyegsie ygskxiemaxdercxekmsrxsrbt

“Mc,ekmnx,ezreng.evdmaxermelxebmnxrczs emhezsrxdxbr,eghrxdegyyt”

“Smrebmkzgy,ercxs?”

“Sm,eizbrzskry.evdmhxbbzmsgyt”

“Gsiehdmnegesmlyxekyzxsr?”

“Msxemhercxecz cxbrezseXs ygsit”

“N.eixgdehxyymo,eZekms dgrqygrxe.mqt”

“Zegbbqdxe.mq,eOgrbms,eozrcmqreghhxkrgrzms,ercgrercxebrgrqbemhen.
kyzxsrezbegengrrxdemheyxbbenmnxsrermenxercgsercxezsrxdxbremheczbekgbxt
Zrezbefqbrevmbbzlyx,ecmoxaxd,ercgrercgregybmeng.esmrelxeogsrzs ezserczb
sxoezsaxbrz grzmste.mqecgaxelxxsedxgizs ercxevgvxdbeizyz xsry.emheygrx,
cgaxe.mqesmr?”

“Zreymmjbeyzjxezr,”ebgzieZedqxhqyy.,evmzsrzs ermegecq xelqsiyxezsercx
kmdsxdte“Zecgaxecgiesmrczs exybxermeimt”

“Zrezbehmdrqsgrx,ehmde.mqeozyyevxdcgvbelxeglyxermevmbrenxeqvteZedxgi
smrczs expkxvrercxekdznzsgyesxobegsiercxeg ms.ekmyqnsteRcxeygrrxdezb
gyog.bezsbrdqkrzaxteLqrezhe.mqecgaxehmyymoxiedxkxsrexaxsrbebmekymbxy.
.mqenqbrecgaxedxgieglmqreYmdieBrteBznmsegsieczbeoxiizs ?”

“Mc,e.xb,eozrcercxeixxvxbrezsrxdxbrt”

“RcgrezbeoxyyteRcxeyxrrxdeoczkceZecmyiezsen.ecgsiezbehdmneYmdieBrt
BznmsteZeozyyedxgiezrerme.mq,egsiezsedxrqdse.mqenqbrerqdsemaxdercxbx
vgvxdbegsieyxrenxecgaxeocgrxaxdelxgdbeqvmsercxengrrxdteRczbezbeocgrecx
bg.b:

eeee“‘N.eIXGDeNDteBCXDYMKJeCMYNXB,—YmdieLgkjogrxderxyybenxercgreZeng.
eeeevygkxeznvyzkzredxyzgskxeqvmse.mqdefqi nxsregsieizbkdxrzmsteZecgax
eeeeixrxdnzsxi,ercxdxhmdx,ermekgyyeqvmse.mqegsiermekmsbqyre.mqezs
eeeedxhxdxskxermercxeaxd.evgzshqyexaxsreoczkcecgbemkkqddxiezs
eeeekmssxkrzmseozrcen.eoxiizs teNdteYxbrdgix,emheBkmrygsie.gdi,ezb
eeeegkrzs egydxgi.ezsercxengrrxd,elqrecxegbbqdxbenxercgrecxebxxbesm
eeeemlfxkrzmserme.mqdekm-mvxdgrzms,egsiercgrecxexaxserczsjbercgrezr
eeeenz crelxemhebmnxegbbzbrgskxteZeozyyekgyyegrehmqdem’kymkjezsercx
eeeeghrxdsmms,egsi,ebcmqyie.mqecgaxegs.emrcxdexs g xnxsregrercgrerznx,
eeeeZecmvxercgre.mqeozyyevmbrvmsxezr,egberczbengrrxdezbemhevgdgnmqsr
eeeeznvmdrgskxte.mqdbehgzrchqyy.,


eeee“‘DMLXDReBRteBZNMSt’


“Zrezbeigrxiehdmne dmbaxsmdeNgsbzmsb,eodzrrxseozrcegeuqzyyevxs,egsiercx
smlyxeymdiecgbecgiercxenzbhmdrqsxerme xregebnxgdemhezsjeqvmsercxemqrxd
bzixemheczbedz creyzrryxehzs xd,”edxngdjxieCmynxbegbecxehmyixieqvercx
xvzbryxt

“Cxebg.behmqdem’kymkjteZrezbercdxxesmoteCxeozyyelxecxdxezsegsecmqdt”

“RcxseZecgaxefqbrerznx,eozrce.mqdegbbzbrgskx,erme xrekyxgdeqvmsercx
bqlfxkrteRqdsemaxdercmbxevgvxdbegsiegddgs xercxexprdgkrbezsercxzdemdixd
mherznx,eoczyxeZergjxege ygskxegbermeocmemqdekyzxsrezbt”eCxevzkjxieg
dxi-kmaxdxieamyqnxehdmnegeyzsxemhelmmjbemhedxhxdxskxelxbzixercx
ngsrxyvzxkxte“Cxdxecxezb,”ebgziecx,ebzrrzs eimosegsiehygrrxszs ezremqr
qvmseczbejsxxte“‘YmdieDmlxdreOgybzs cgneixeAxdxeBrteBznms,ebxkmsiebms
mhercxeIqjxemheLgynmdgyt’eCqn!e‘Gdnb:eGwqdx,ercdxxekgyrdmvbezsekczxh
maxdegehxbbebglyxteLmdsezse1846t’eCx’behmdr.-msxe.xgdbemheg x,eoczkcezb
ngrqdxehmdengddzg xteOgbeQsixd-Bxkdxrgd.ehmdercxekmymszxbezsegeygrx
ginzszbrdgrzmsteRcxeIqjx,eczbehgrcxd,eogbegremsxerznxeBxkdxrgd.ehmd
Hmdxz seGhhgzdbteRcx.ezscxdzreVygsrg xsxrelymmiel.eizdxkreixbkxsr,egsi
RqimdemsercxeizbrghhebzixteCg!eOxyy,ercxdxezbesmrczs eaxd.ezsbrdqkrzax
zsegyyerczbteZerczsjercgreZenqbrerqdserme.mqeOgrbms,ehmdebmnxrczs enmdx
bmyzit”

“Zecgaxeaxd.eyzrryxeizhhzkqyr.ezsehzsizs eocgreZeogsr,”ebgzieZ,e“hmd
rcxehgkrbegdxeuqzrxedxkxsr,egsiercxengrrxdebrdqkjenxegbedxngdjglyxteZ
hxgdxiermedxhxdercxnerme.mq,ecmoxaxd,egbeZejsxoercgre.mqecgiegsezsuqzd.
msecgsiegsiercgre.mqeizbyzjxiercxezsrdqbzmsemhemrcxdengrrxdbt”

“Mc,e.mqenxgsercxeyzrryxevdmlyxnemhercxe dmbaxsmdeBuqgdxehqdszrqdxeagst
Rcgrezbeuqzrxekyxgdxieqvesmo—rcmq c,ezsixxi,ezreogbemlazmqbehdmnercx
hzdbrteVdg.e zaxenxercxedxbqyrbemhe.mqdesxobvgvxdebxyxkrzmsbt”

“CxdxezbercxehzdbresmrzkxeoczkceZekgsehzsiteZrezbezsercxevxdbmsgy
kmyqnsemhercxe_Nmdszs eVmbr_,egsieigrxb,egbe.mqebxx,ebmnxeoxxjbelgkj:
‘Gengddzg xecgbelxxsegddgs xi,’ezrebg.b,e‘gsieozyy,ezhedqnmqdezb
kmddxkr,eaxd.ebcmdry.ergjxevygkx,elxroxxseYmdieDmlxdreBrteBznms,ebxkmsi
bmsemhercxeIqjxemheLgynmdgy,egsieNzbbeCgrr.eImdgs,ercxemsy.eigq crxdemh
Gym.bzqbeImdgsteXbut,emheBgseHdgskzbkm,eKgyt,eQtBtGt’eRcgrezbegyyt”

“Rxdbxegsiermercxevmzsr,”edxngdjxieCmynxb,ebrdxrkczs eczbeyms ,erczs
yx bermogdibercxehzdxt

“Rcxdxeogbegevgdg dgvcegnvyzh.zs erczbezsemsxemhercxebmkzxr.evgvxdbemh
rcxebgnxeoxxjteGc,ecxdxezrezb:e‘Rcxdxeozyyebmmselxegekgyyehmd
vdmrxkrzmsezsercxengddzg xeengdjxr,ehmdercxevdxbxsrehdxx-rdgix
vdzskzvyxegvvxgdbermerxyyecxgazy.eg gzsbremqdecmnxevdmiqkrteMsxel.emsx
rcxengsg xnxsremhercxesmlyxecmqbxbemhe dxgreLdzrgzsezbevgbbzs ezsrmercx
cgsibemhemqdehgzdekmqbzsbehdmnegkdmbbercxeGrygsrzkteGseznvmdrgsr
giizrzmsecgbelxxsengixeiqdzs ercxeygbreoxxjermercxeyzbremhercxevdzwxb
oczkcecgaxelxxselmdsxegog.el.ercxbxekcgdnzs ezsagixdbteYmdieBrteBznms,
ocmecgbebcmosecznbxyhehmdemaxderoxsr.e.xgdbevdmmheg gzsbrercxeyzrryx
 mi’begddmob,ecgbesmoeixhzszrxy.egssmqskxieczbegvvdmgkczs engddzg x
ozrceNzbbeCgrr.eImdgs,ercxehgbkzsgrzs eigq crxdemhegeKgyzhmdszg
nzyyzmsgzdxteNzbbeImdgs,eocmbxe dgkxhqyehz qdxegsiebrdzjzs ehgkx
grrdgkrxienqkcegrrxsrzmsegrercxeOxbrlqd.eCmqbxehxbrzazrzxb,ezbegsemsy.
kczyi,egsiezrezbekqddxsry.edxvmdrxiercgrecxdeimod.eozyyedqserm
kmsbzixdgly.emaxdercxebzpehz qdxb,eozrcexpvxkrgskzxbehmdercxehqrqdxteGb
zrezbegsemvxsebxkdxrercgrercxeIqjxemheLgynmdgyecgbelxxsekmnvxyyxierm
bxyyeczbevzkrqdxbeozrczsercxeygbrehxoe.xgdb,egsiegbeYmdieBrteBznmsecgb
smevdmvxdr.emheczbemosebgaxercxebngyyexbrgrxemheLzdkcnmmd,ezrezb
mlazmqbercgrercxeKgyzhmdszgsecxzdxbbezbesmrercxemsy.e gzsxdel.egs
gyyzgskxeoczkceozyyexsglyxecxdermengjxercxexgb.egsiekmnnmserdgsbzrzms
hdmnegeDxvqlyzkgseygi.ermegeLdzrzbcevxxdxbbt’”

“Gs.rczs exybx?”egbjxieCmynxb,e.goszs t

“Mc,e.xb;evyxsr.teRcxsercxdxezbegsmrcxdesmrxezsercxe_Nmdszs eVmbr_erm
bg.ercgrercxengddzg xeomqyielxegseglbmyqrxy.euqzxremsx,ercgrezreomqyi
lxegreBrte xmd x’b,eCgsmaxdeBuqgdx,ercgremsy.ecgyhegeimwxsezsrzngrx
hdzxsibeomqyielxezsazrxi,egsiercgrercxevgdr.eomqyiedxrqdsermercx
hqdszbcxiecmqbxegreYgskgbrxde grxeoczkcecgbelxxsergjxsel.eNdteGym.bzqb
ImdgsteRomeig.beygrxd—rcgrezb,emseOxisxbig.eygbr—rcxdxezbegekqdr
gssmqskxnxsrercgrercxeoxiizs ecgiergjxsevygkx,egsiercgrercxecmsx.nmms
omqyielxevgbbxiegreYmdieLgkjogrxd’bevygkx,esxgdeVxrxdbhzxyiteRcmbxegdx
gyyercxesmrzkxbeoczkcegvvxgdxielxhmdxercxeizbgvvxgdgskxemhercxeldzixt”

“Lxhmdxercxeocgr?”egbjxieCmynxbeozrcegebrgdrt

“Rcxeagszbczs emhercxeygi.t”

“Ocxseiziebcxeagszbc,ercxs?”

“Grercxeoxiizs eldxgjhgbrt”

“ZsixxiteRczbezbenmdxezsrxdxbrzs ercgsezrevdmnzbxiermelx;euqzrx
idgngrzk,ezsehgkrt”

“.xb;ezrebrdqkjenxegbelxzs egeyzrryxemqremhercxekmnnmst”

“Rcx.emhrxseagszbcelxhmdxercxekxdxnms.,egsiemkkgbzmsgyy.eiqdzs ercx
cmsx.nmms;elqreZekgssmrekgyyermenzsiegs.rczs euqzrxebmevdmnvregberczbt
Vdg.eyxrenxecgaxercxeixrgzybt”

“Zeogdse.mqercgrercx.egdxeaxd.ezskmnvyxrxt”

“Vxdcgvbeoxeng.engjxercxneyxbbebmt”

“Bqkcegbercx.egdx,ercx.egdxebxrehmdrcezsegebzs yxegdrzkyxemhegenmdszs 
vgvxdemhe.xbrxdig.,eoczkceZeozyyedxgierme.mqteZrezbecxgixi,e‘Bzs qygd
MkkqddxskxegregeHgbczmsglyxeOxiizs ’:

“‘Rcxehgnzy.emheYmdieDmlxdreBrteBznmsecgbelxxsercdmosezsrmercxe dxgrxbr
kmsbrxdsgrzmsel.ercxebrdgs xegsievgzshqyexvzbmixbeoczkcecgaxergjxs
vygkxezsekmssxkrzmseozrceczbeoxiizs teRcxekxdxnms.,egbebcmdry.
gssmqskxiezsercxevgvxdbemhe.xbrxdig.,emkkqddxiemsercxevdxazmqbenmdszs ;
lqrezrezbemsy.esmoercgrezrecgbelxxsevmbbzlyxermekmshzdnercxebrdgs x
dqnmqdbeoczkcecgaxelxxsebmevxdbzbrxsry.ehymgrzs eglmqrteZsebvzrxemhercx
grrxnvrbemhercxehdzxsibermecqbcercxengrrxdeqv,ebmenqkcevqlyzkegrrxsrzms
cgbesmoelxxseidgosermezrercgresme mmievqdvmbxekgselxebxdaxiel.
ghhxkrzs ermeizbdx gdieocgrezbegekmnnmsebqlfxkrehmdekmsaxdbgrzmst

“‘Rcxekxdxnms.,eoczkceogbevxdhmdnxiegreBrte xmd x’b,eCgsmaxdeBuqgdx,
ogbegeaxd.euqzxremsx,esmemsxelxzs evdxbxsrebgaxercxehgrcxdemhercx
ldzix,eNdteGym.bzqbeImdgs,ercxeIqkcxbbemheLgynmdgy,eYmdieLgkjogrxd,
YmdieXqbrgkxegsieYgi.eKygdgeBrteBznmse(rcxe.mqs xdeldmrcxdegsiebzbrxd
mhercxeldzix dmmn),egsieYgi.eGyzkzgeOczrrzs rmsteRcxeocmyxevgdr.
vdmkxxixieghrxdogdibermercxecmqbxemheNdteGym.bzqbeImdgs,egreYgskgbrxd
 grx,eocxdxeldxgjhgbrecgielxxsevdxvgdxiteZregvvxgdbercgrebmnxeyzrryx
rdmqlyxeogbekgqbxiel.egeomngs,eocmbxesgnxecgbesmrelxxsegbkxdrgzsxi,eocm
xsixgamqdxiermehmdkxecxdeog.ezsrmercxecmqbxeghrxdercxeldzigyevgdr.,
gyyx zs ercgrebcxecgiebmnxekygzneqvmseYmdieBrteBznmsteZreogbemsy.eghrxd
gevgzshqyegsievdmyms xiebkxsxercgrebcxeogbexfxkrxiel.ercxelqryxdegsi
rcxehmmrngsteRcxeldzix,eocmecgiehmdrqsgrxy.exsrxdxiercxecmqbxelxhmdx
rczbeqsvyxgbgsrezsrxddqvrzms,ecgiebgreimosermeldxgjhgbreozrcercxedxbr,
ocxsebcxekmnvygzsxiemhegebqiixsezsizbvmbzrzmsegsiedxrzdxiermecxdedmmnt
Cxdevdmyms xieglbxskxecgazs ekgqbxiebmnxekmnnxsr,ecxdehgrcxdehmyymoxi
cxd,elqreyxgdsxiehdmnecxdengziercgrebcxecgiemsy.ekmnxeqvermecxdekcgnlxd
hmdegsezsbrgsr,ekgq creqvegseqybrxdegsielmssxr,egsiecqddzxieimosermercx
vgbbg xteMsxemhercxehmmrnxseixkygdxiercgrecxecgiebxxsegeygi.eyxgaxercx
cmqbxercqbegvvgdxyyxi,elqrecgiedxhqbxiermekdxizrercgrezreogbeczb
nzbrdxbb,elxyzxazs ecxdermelxeozrcercxekmnvgs.teMsegbkxdrgzszs ercgr
czbeigq crxdecgieizbgvvxgdxi,eNdteGym.bzqbeImdgs,ezsekmsfqskrzmseozrc
rcxeldzix dmmn,ezsbrgsry.evqrercxnbxyaxbezsekmnnqszkgrzmseozrcercx
vmyzkx,egsieaxd.exsxd xrzkezsuqzdzxbegdxelxzs engix,eoczkceozyy
vdmlgly.edxbqyrezsegebvxxi.ekyxgdzs eqvemherczbeaxd.ebzs qygdelqbzsxbbt
Qvermegeygrxecmqdeygbresz cr,ecmoxaxd,esmrczs ecgierdgsbvzdxiegbermercx
ocxdxglmqrbemhercxenzbbzs eygi.teRcxdxegdxedqnmqdbemhehmqyevyg.ezsercx
ngrrxd,egsiezrezbebgziercgrercxevmyzkxecgaxekgqbxiercxegddxbremhercx
omngseocmecgiekgqbxiercxemdz zsgyeizbrqdlgskx,ezsercxelxyzxhercgr,ehdmn
fxgymqb.emdebmnxemrcxdenmrzax,ebcxeng.ecgaxelxxsekmskxdsxiezsercx
brdgs xeizbgvvxgdgskxemhercxeldzixt’”

“Gsiezbercgregyy?”

“Msy.emsxeyzrryxezrxnezsegsmrcxdemhercxenmdszs evgvxdb,elqrezrezbeg
bq  xbrzaxemsxt”

“Gsiezrezb—”

“RcgreNzbbeHymdgeNzyygd,ercxeygi.eocmecgiekgqbxiercxeizbrqdlgskx,ecgb
gkrqgyy.elxxsegddxbrxiteZregvvxgdbercgrebcxeogbehmdnxdy.ege_igsbxqbx_
grercxeGyyx dm,egsiercgrebcxecgbejsmosercxeldzix dmmnehmdebmnxe.xgdbt
Rcxdxegdxesmehqdrcxdevgdrzkqygdb,egsiercxeocmyxekgbxezbezse.mqdecgsib
smo—bmehgdegbezrecgbelxxsebxrehmdrcezsercxevqlyzkevdxbbt”

“Gsiegsexpkxxizs y.ezsrxdxbrzs ekgbxezregvvxgdbermelxteZeomqyiesmrecgax
nzbbxiezrehmdeomdyibteLqrercxdxezbegedzs egrercxelxyy,eOgrbms,egsiegb
rcxekymkjengjxbezregehxoenzsqrxbeghrxdehmqd,eZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrerczb
ozyyevdmaxermelxemqdesmlyxekyzxsrteImesmreidxgnemhe mzs ,eOgrbms,ehmdeZ
axd.enqkcevdxhxdecgazs egeozrsxbb,ezhemsy.egbegekcxkjermen.emos
nxnmd.t”

“YmdieDmlxdreBrteBznms,”egssmqskxiemqdevg x-lm.,ercdmozs emvxsercx
immdteGe xsryxngsexsrxdxi,eozrcegevyxgbgsr,ekqyrqdxiehgkx,ecz c-smbxi
gsievgyx,eozrcebmnxrczs evxdcgvbemhevxrqygskxeglmqrercxenmqrc,egsieozrc
rcxebrxgi.,eoxyy-mvxsxiex.xemhegengseocmbxevyxgbgsreymrezrecgiexaxd
lxxsermekmnngsiegsiermelxemlx.xiteCzbengssxdeogbeldzbj,egsie.xreczb
 xsxdgyegvvxgdgskxe gaxegseqsiqxeznvdxbbzmsemheg x,ehmdecxecgiegebyz cr
hmdogdiebrmmvegsiegeyzrryxelxsiemhercxejsxxbegbecxeogyjxiteCzbecgzd,
rmm,egbecxeboxvremhheczbeaxd.ekqdy.-ldznnxiecgr,eogbe dzwwyxiedmqsiercx
xi xbegsierczseqvmsercxermvteGbermeczbeidxbb,ezreogbekgdxhqyermercx
axd xemhehmvvzbcsxbb,eozrcecz cekmyygd,elygkjehdmkj-kmgr,eoczrx
ogzbrkmgr,e.xyymoe ymaxb,evgrxsr-yxgrcxdebcmxb,egsieyz cr-kmymqdxi
 gzrxdbteCxegiagskxiebymoy.ezsrmercxedmmn,erqdszs eczbecxgiehdmneyxhr
rmedz cr,egsiebozs zs ezseczbedz crecgsiercxekmdieoczkcecxyieczbe myixs
x.x ygbbxbt

“ mmi-ig.,eYmdieBrteBznms,”ebgzieCmynxb,edzbzs egsielmozs te“Vdg.ergjx
rcxelgbjxr-kcgzdteRczbezben.ehdzxsiegsiekmyyxg qx,eIdteOgrbmsteIdgoeqv
geyzrryxermercxehzdx,egsieoxeozyyergyjerczbengrrxdemaxdt”

“Genmbrevgzshqyengrrxdermenx,egbe.mqekgsenmbredxgizy.ezng zsx,eNdt
CmynxbteZecgaxelxxsekqrermercxeuqzkjteZeqsixdbrgsiercgre.mqecgax
gydxgi.engsg xiebxaxdgyeixyzkgrxekgbxbemherczbebmdr,ebzd,ercmq ceZ
vdxbqnxercgrercx.eoxdxecgdiy.ehdmnercxebgnxekygbbemhebmkzxr.t”

“Sm,eZegneixbkxsizs t”

“Zelx evgdimst”

“N.eygbrekyzxsremhercxebmdreogbegejzs t”

“Mc,edxgyy.!eZecgiesmezixgteGsieoczkcejzs ?”

“RcxeJzs emheBkgsizsgazgt”

“Ocgr!eCgiecxeymbreczbeozhx?”

“.mqekgseqsixdbrgsi,”ebgzieCmynxbebqgaxy.,e“rcgreZexprxsiermercx
ghhgzdbemhen.emrcxdekyzxsrbercxebgnxebxkdxk.eoczkceZevdmnzbxerme.mqezs
.mqdbt”

“Mhekmqdbx!eAxd.edz cr!eaxd.edz cr!eZ’nebqdxeZelx evgdimsteGbermen.emos
kgbx,eZegnedxgi.erme zaxe.mqegs.ezshmdngrzmseoczkceng.egbbzbre.mqezs
hmdnzs egsemvzszmst”

“Rcgsje.mqteZecgaxegydxgi.eyxgdsxiegyyercgrezbezsercxevqlyzkevdzsrb,
smrczs enmdxteZevdxbqnxercgreZeng.ergjxezregbekmddxkr—rczbegdrzkyx,ehmd
xpgnvyx,egbermercxeizbgvvxgdgskxemhercxeldzixt”

YmdieBrteBznmse ygskxiemaxdezrte“.xb,ezrezbekmddxkr,egbehgdegbezr
 mxbt”

“Lqrezresxxibege dxgreixgyemhebqvvyxnxsrzs elxhmdxegs.msxekmqyiemhhxd
gsemvzszmsteZerczsjercgreZeng.egddzaxegren.ehgkrbenmbreizdxkry.el.
uqxbrzmszs e.mqt”

“Vdg.eimebmt”

“Ocxseizie.mqehzdbrenxxreNzbbeCgrr.eImdgs?”

“ZseBgseHdgskzbkm,ege.xgdeg mt”

“.mqeoxdxerdgaxyyzs ezsercxeBrgrxb?”

“.xbt”

“Izie.mqelxkmnxexs g xiercxs?”

“Smt”

“Lqre.mqeoxdxemsegehdzxsiy.ehmmrzs ?”

“Zeogbegnqbxiel.ecxdebmkzxr.,egsiebcxekmqyiebxxercgreZeogbegnqbxit”

“Cxdehgrcxdezbeaxd.edzkc?”

“CxezbebgziermelxercxedzkcxbrengsemsercxeVgkzhzkebymvxt”

“Gsiecmoeiziecxengjxeczbenmsx.?”

“Zsenzszs teCxecgiesmrczs egehxoe.xgdbeg mteRcxsecxebrdqkje myi,
zsaxbrxiezr,egsiekgnxeqvel.eyxgvbegsielmqsibt”

“Smo,eocgrezbe.mqdemoseznvdxbbzmsegbermercxe.mqs eygi.’b—.mqdeozhx’b
kcgdgkrxd?”

Rcxesmlyxngseboqs eczbe ygbbxbegeyzrryxehgbrxdegsiebrgdxieimosezsrmercx
hzdxte“.mqebxx,eNdteCmynxb,”ebgziecx,e“n.eozhxeogberoxsr.elxhmdxecxd
hgrcxdelxkgnxegedzkcengsteIqdzs ercgrerznxebcxedgsehdxxezsegenzszs 
kgnvegsieogsixdxiercdmq ceommibemdenmqsrgzsb,ebmercgrecxdexiqkgrzmsecgb
kmnxehdmneSgrqdxedgrcxdercgsehdmnercxebkcmmyngbrxdteBcxezbeocgreoxekgyy
zseXs ygsiegermnlm.,eozrcegebrdms esgrqdx,eozyiegsiehdxx,eqshxrrxdxiel.
gs.ebmdremherdgizrzmsbteBcxezbeznvxrqmqb—amykgszk,eZeogbeglmqrermebg.t
Bcxezbebozhrezsengjzs eqvecxdenzsiegsiehxgdyxbbezsekgdd.zs emqrecxd
dxbmyqrzmsbteMsercxemrcxdecgsi,eZeomqyiesmrecgaxe zaxsecxdercxesgnx
oczkceZecgaxercxecmsmqdermelxgd”—cxe gaxegeyzrryxebrgrxy.ekmq c—“cgieZ
smrercmq crecxdermelxegrelmrrmnegesmlyxeomngsteZelxyzxaxercgrebcxezb
kgvglyxemhecxdmzkebxyh-bgkdzhzkxegsiercgregs.rczs eizbcmsmqdglyxeomqyi
lxedxvq sgsrermecxdt”

“Cgaxe.mqecxdevcmrm dgvc?”

“Zeldmq crerczbeozrcenxt”eCxemvxsxiegeymkjxregsiebcmoxieqbercxehqyy
hgkxemhegeaxd.eymaxy.eomngsteZreogbesmregevcmrm dgvcelqregsezamd.
nzszgrqdx,egsiercxegdrzbrecgieldmq cremqrercxehqyyexhhxkremhercx
yqbrdmqbelygkjecgzd,ercxeygd xeigdjex.xb,egsiercxexpuqzbzrxenmqrct
Cmynxbe gwxieyms egsiexgdsxbry.egrezrteRcxsecxekymbxiercxeymkjxregsi
cgsixiezrelgkjermeYmdieBrteBznmst

“Rcxe.mqs eygi.ekgnxermeYmsims,ercxs,egsie.mqedxsxoxie.mqd
gkuqgzsrgskx?”

“.xb,ecxdehgrcxdeldmq crecxdemaxdehmderczbeygbreYmsimsebxgbmsteZenxr
cxdebxaxdgyerznxb,elxkgnxexs g xiermecxd,egsiecgaxesmoengddzxiecxdt”

“Bcxeldmq cr,eZeqsixdbrgsi,egekmsbzixdglyxeimod.?”

“Gehgzdeimod.teSmrenmdxercgsezbeqbqgyezsen.ehgnzy.t”

“Gsierczb,emhekmqdbx,edxngzsberme.mq,ebzskxercxengddzg xezbege_hgzr
gkkmnvyz_?”

“Zedxgyy.ecgaxengixesmezsuqzdzxbemsercxebqlfxkrt”

“Axd.esgrqdgyy.esmrteIzie.mqebxxeNzbbeImdgsemsercxeig.elxhmdxercx
oxiizs ?”

“.xbt”

“Ogbebcxezse mmiebvzdzrb?”

“SxaxdelxrrxdteBcxejxvrergyjzs emheocgreoxebcmqyieimezsemqdehqrqdx
yzaxbt”

“Zsixxi!eRcgrezbeaxd.ezsrxdxbrzs teGsiemsercxenmdszs emhercxeoxiizs ?”

“Bcxeogbegbeldz cregbevmbbzlyx—greyxgbreqsrzyeghrxdercxekxdxnms.t”

“Gsieizie.mqemlbxdaxegs.ekcgs xezsecxdercxs?”

“Oxyy,ermerxyyercxerdqrc,eZebgoercxsercxehzdbrebz sbercgreZecgiexaxd
bxxsercgrecxderxnvxdeogbefqbregeyzrryxebcgdvteRcxezskzixsrecmoxaxd,eogb
rmmerdzazgyermedxygrxegsiekgsecgaxesmevmbbzlyxelxgdzs eqvmsercxekgbxt”

“Vdg.eyxreqbecgaxezr,ehmdegyyercgrt”

“Mc,ezrezbekczyizbcteBcxeidmvvxiecxdelmquqxregbeoxeoxsrermogdibercx
axbrd.teBcxeogbevgbbzs ercxehdmsrevxoegrercxerznx,egsiezrehxyyemaxd
zsrmercxevxoteRcxdxeogbegenmnxsr’beixyg.,elqrercxe xsryxngsezsercxevxo
cgsixiezreqvermecxdeg gzs,egsiezreiziesmregvvxgdermelxercxeomdbxehmd
rcxehgyyte.xreocxseZebvmjxermecxdemhercxengrrxd,ebcxegsboxdxienx
gldqvry.;egsiezsercxekgddzg x,emsemqdeog.ecmnx,ebcxebxxnxieglbqdiy.
g zrgrxiemaxderczberdzhyzs ekgqbxt”

“Zsixxi!e.mqebg.ercgrercxdxeogbege xsryxngsezsercxevxoteBmnxemhercx
 xsxdgyevqlyzkeoxdxevdxbxsr,ercxs?”

“Mc,e.xbteZrezbeznvmbbzlyxermexpkyqixercxneocxsercxekcqdkcezbemvxst”

“Rczbe xsryxngseogbesmremsxemhe.mqdeozhx’behdzxsib?”

“Sm,esm;eZekgyyecznege xsryxngsel.ekmqdrxb.,elqrecxeogbeuqzrxeg
kmnnms-ymmjzs evxdbmsteZecgdiy.esmrzkxieczbegvvxgdgskxteLqredxgyy.eZ
rczsjercgreoxegdxeogsixdzs edgrcxdehgdehdmnercxevmzsrt”

“Ygi.eBrteBznms,ercxs,edxrqdsxiehdmnercxeoxiizs ezsegeyxbbekcxxdhqy
hdgnxemhenzsiercgsebcxecgie msxermezrteOcgreiziebcxeimemsedx-xsrxdzs 
cxdehgrcxd’becmqbx?”

“Zebgoecxdezsekmsaxdbgrzmseozrcecxdengzit”

“Gsieocmezbecxdengzi?”

“GyzkxezbecxdesgnxteBcxezbegseGnxdzkgsegsiekgnxehdmneKgyzhmdszgeozrc
cxdt”

“Gekmshzixsrzgyebxdagsr?”

“GeyzrryxermmenqkcebmteZrebxxnxiermenxercgrecxdenzbrdxbbegyymoxiecxderm
rgjxe dxgreyzlxdrzxbteBrzyy,emhekmqdbx,ezseGnxdzkgercx.eymmjeqvmsercxbx
rczs bezsegeizhhxdxsreog.t”

“Cmoeyms eiziebcxebvxgjermerczbeGyzkx?”

“Mc,egehxoenzsqrxbteZecgiebmnxrczs exybxermerczsjemht”

“.mqeiziesmremaxdcxgdeocgrercx.ebgzi?”

“Ygi.eBrteBznmsebgziebmnxrczs eglmqre‘fqnvzs egekygznt’eBcxeogb
gkkqbrmnxiermeqbxebygs emhercxejzsiteZecgaxesmezixgeocgrebcxenxgsrt”

“Gnxdzkgsebygs ezbeaxd.expvdxbbzaxebmnxrznxbteGsieocgreizie.mqdeozhxeim
ocxsebcxehzszbcxiebvxgjzs ermecxdengzi?”

“Bcxeogyjxiezsrmercxeldxgjhgbr-dmmnt”

“Mse.mqdegdn?”

“Sm,egymsxteBcxeogbeaxd.ezsixvxsixsrezseyzrryxengrrxdbeyzjxercgrteRcxs,
ghrxdeoxecgiebgreimosehmderxsenzsqrxbemdebm,ebcxedmbxecqddzxiy.,
nqrrxdxiebmnxeomdibemhegvmym .,egsieyxhrercxedmmnteBcxesxaxdekgnx
lgkjt”

“Lqrerczbengzi,eGyzkx,egbeZeqsixdbrgsi,eixvmbxbercgrebcxeoxsrermecxd
dmmn,ekmaxdxiecxdeldzix’beidxbbeozrcegeyms eqybrxd,evqremsegelmssxr,
gsieoxsremqrt”

“UqzrxebmteGsiebcxeogbeghrxdogdibebxxseogyjzs ezsrmeC.ixeVgdjezs
kmnvgs.eozrceHymdgeNzyygd,egeomngseocmezbesmoezsekqbrmi.,egsieocmecgi
gydxgi.engixegeizbrqdlgskxegreNdteImdgs’becmqbxercgrenmdszs t”

“Gc,e.xbteZebcmqyieyzjxegehxoevgdrzkqygdbegbermerczbe.mqs eygi.,egsi
.mqdedxygrzmsbermecxdt”

YmdieBrteBznmsebcdq  xieczbebcmqyixdbegsiedgzbxieczbex.xldmobte“Oxecgax
lxxsemsegehdzxsiy.ehmmrzs ehmdebmnxe.xgdb—Zeng.ebg.emsege_axd._
hdzxsiy.ehmmrzs teBcxeqbxiermelxegrercxeGyyx dmteZecgaxesmrerdxgrxiecxd
qs xsxdmqby.,egsiebcxecgiesmefqbrekgqbxemhekmnvygzsreg gzsbrenx,elqr
.mqejsmoeocgreomnxsegdx,eNdteCmynxbteHymdgeogbegeixgdeyzrryxerczs ,elqr
xpkxxizs y.ecmr-cxgixiegsieixamrxiy.egrrgkcxiermenxteBcxeodmrxenx
idxgihqyeyxrrxdbeocxsebcxecxgdiercgreZeogbeglmqrermelxengddzxi,egsi,erm
rxyyercxerdqrc,ercxedxgbmseoc.eZecgiercxengddzg xekxyxldgrxiebmeuqzxry.
ogbercgreZehxgdxieyxbrercxdxenz crelxegebkgsigyezsercxekcqdkcteBcxekgnx
rmeNdteImdgs’beimmdefqbreghrxdeoxedxrqdsxi,egsiebcxexsixgamqdxiermevqbc
cxdeog.ezs,eqrrxdzs eaxd.eglqbzaxexpvdxbbzmsbermogdiben.eozhx,egsiexaxs
rcdxgrxszs ecxd,elqreZecgiehmdxbxxsercxevmbbzlzyzr.emhebmnxrczs emhercx
bmdr,egsieZecgieromevmyzkxehxyymobercxdxezsevdzagrxekymrcxb,eocmebmms
vqbcxiecxdemqreg gzsteBcxeogbeuqzxreocxsebcxebgoercgrercxdxeogbesme mmi
zsengjzs egedmot”

“Izie.mqdeozhxecxgdegyyerczb?”

“Sm,ercgsje mmisxbb,ebcxeiziesmrt”

“Gsiebcxeogbebxxseogyjzs eozrcerczbeaxd.eomngseghrxdogdib?”

“.xbteRcgrezbeocgreNdteYxbrdgix,emheBkmrygsie.gdi,eymmjbeqvmsegbebm
bxdzmqbteZrezbercmq crercgreHymdgeixkm.xien.eozhxemqregsieygziebmnx
rxddzlyxerdgvehmdecxdt”

“Oxyy,ezrezbegevmbbzlyxebqvvmbzrzmst”

“.mqerczsjebm,ermm?”

“Zeiziesmrebg.egevdmlglyxemsxteLqre.mqeimesmre.mqdbxyheymmjeqvmserczb
gbeyzjxy.?”

“ZeimesmrerczsjeHymdgeomqyiecqdregehy.t”

“Brzyy,efxgymqb.ezbegebrdgs xerdgsbhmdnxdemhekcgdgkrxdbteVdg.eocgrezb
.mqdemosercxmd.egbermeocgrermmjevygkx?”

“Oxyy,edxgyy.,eZekgnxermebxxjegercxmd.,esmrermevdmvmqsiemsxteZecgax
 zaxse.mqegyyercxehgkrbteBzskxe.mqegbjenx,ecmoxaxd,eZeng.ebg.ercgrezr
cgbemkkqddxiermenxegbevmbbzlyxercgrercxexpkzrxnxsremherczbeghhgzd,ercx
kmsbkzmqbsxbbercgrebcxecgiengixebmeznnxsbxegebmkzgyebrdzix,ecgiercx
xhhxkremhekgqbzs ebmnxeyzrryxesxdamqbeizbrqdlgskxezsen.eozhxt”

“Zsebcmdr,ercgrebcxecgielxkmnxebqiixsy.eixdgs xi?”

“Oxyy,edxgyy.,eocxseZekmsbzixdercgrebcxecgberqdsxiecxdelgkj—Zeozyyesmr
bg.eqvmsenx,elqreqvmsebmenqkcercgrengs.ecgaxegbvzdxiermeozrcmqr
bqkkxbb—Zekgsecgdiy.expvygzsezrezsegs.emrcxdehgbczmst”

“Oxyy,ekxdrgzsy.ercgrezbegybmegekmskxzaglyxec.vmrcxbzb,”ebgzieCmynxb,
bnzyzs te“Gsiesmo,eYmdieBrteBznms,eZerczsjercgreZecgaxesxgdy.egyyen.
igrgteNg.eZegbjeocxrcxde.mqeoxdxebxgrxiegrercxeldxgjhgbr-rglyxebmercgr
.mqekmqyiebxxemqremhercxeozsimo?”

“OxekmqyiebxxercxemrcxdebzixemhercxedmgiegsiercxeVgdjt”

“UqzrxebmteRcxseZeimesmrerczsjercgreZesxxiermeixrgzse.mqeyms xdteZ
bcgyyekmnnqszkgrxeozrce.mqt”

“Bcmqyie.mqelxehmdrqsgrxexsmq cermebmyaxerczbevdmlyxn,”ebgziemqd
kyzxsr,edzbzs t

“Zecgaxebmyaxiezrt”

“Xc?eOcgreogbercgr?”

“Zebg.ercgreZecgaxebmyaxiezrt”

“Ocxdx,ercxs,ezben.eozhx?”

“RcgrezbegeixrgzyeoczkceZebcgyyebvxxizy.ebqvvy.t”

YmdieBrteBznmsebcmmjeczbecxgite“Zegneghdgziercgrezreozyyergjxeozbxd
cxgibercgse.mqdbemdenzsx,”ecxedxngdjxi,egsielmozs ezsegebrgrxy.,
myi-hgbczmsxiengssxdecxeixvgdrxit

“Zrezbeaxd.e mmiemheYmdieBrteBznmsermecmsmqden.ecxgiel.evqrrzs ezremseg
yxaxyeozrceczbemos,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,eygq czs te“ZerczsjercgreZ
bcgyyecgaxegeoczbj.egsiebmigegsiegekz gdeghrxdegyyerczb
kdmbb-uqxbrzmszs teZecgiehmdnxien.ekmskyqbzmsbegbermercxekgbxelxhmdx
mqdekyzxsrekgnxezsrmercxedmmnt”

“N.eixgdeCmynxb!”

“Zecgaxesmrxbemhebxaxdgyebznzygdekgbxb,ercmq cesmsx,egbeZedxngdjxi
lxhmdx,eoczkceoxdxeuqzrxegbevdmnvrteN.eocmyxexpgnzsgrzmsebxdaxiermerqds
n.ekmsfxkrqdxezsrmegekxdrgzsr.teKzdkqnbrgsrzgyexazixskxezbemkkgbzmsgyy.
axd.ekmsazskzs ,egbeocxse.mqehzsiegerdmqrezsercxenzyj,ermeuqmrx
Rcmdxgq’bexpgnvyxt”

“LqreZecgaxecxgdiegyyercgre.mqecgaxecxgdit”

“Ozrcmqr,ecmoxaxd,ercxejsmoyxi xemhevdx-xpzbrzs ekgbxbeoczkcebxdaxbenx
bmeoxyyteRcxdxeogbegevgdgyyxyezsbrgskxezseGlxdixxsebmnxe.xgdbelgkj,egsi
bmnxrczs emseaxd.enqkcercxebgnxeyzsxbegreNqszkcercxe.xgdeghrxdercx
Hdgskm-VdqbbzgseOgdteZrezbemsxemhercxbxekgbxb—lqr,ecqyym,ecxdxezb
Yxbrdgix!e mmi-ghrxdsmms,eYxbrdgix!e.mqeozyyehzsiegsexprdgerqnlyxdeqvms
rcxebzixlmgdi,egsiercxdxegdxekz gdbezsercxelmpt”

Rcxemhhzkzgyeixrxkrzaxeogbegrrzdxiezsegevxg-fgkjxregsiekdgagr,eoczkc
 gaxecznegeixkzixiy.esgqrzkgyegvvxgdgskx,egsiecxekgddzxiegelygkjekgsagb
lg ezseczbecgsiteOzrcegebcmdre dxxrzs ecxebxgrxiecznbxyhegsieyzrercx
kz gdeoczkcecgielxxsemhhxdxiermecznt

“Ocgr’beqv,ercxs?”egbjxieCmynxbeozrcegerozsjyxezseczbex.xte“.mqeymmj
izbbgrzbhzxit”

“GsieZehxxyeizbbgrzbhzxiteZrezberczbezshxdsgyeBrteBznmsengddzg xekgbxt
Zekgsengjxesxzrcxdecxgiesmdergzyemhercxelqbzsxbbt”

“Dxgyy.!e.mqebqdvdzbxenxt”

“Ocmexaxdecxgdiemhebqkcegenzpxieghhgzd?eXaxd.ekyqxebxxnbermebyzv
rcdmq cen.ehzs xdbteZecgaxelxxsegreomdjeqvmsezregyyeig.t”

“Gsieaxd.eoxrezrebxxnbermecgaxengixe.mq,”ebgzieCmynxbeyg.zs eczbecgsi
qvmsercxegdnemhercxevxg-fgkjxrt

“.xb,eZecgaxelxxseidg  zs ercxeBxdvxsrzsxt”

“ZseCxgaxs’besgnx,eocgrehmd?”

“Zsebxgdkcemhercxelmi.emheYgi.eBrteBznmst”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbeyxgsxielgkjezseczbekcgzdegsieygq cxiecxgdrzy.t

“Cgaxe.mqeidg  xiercxelgbzsemheRdghgy gdeBuqgdxehmqsrgzs?”ecxegbjxit

“Oc.?eOcgreime.mqenxgs?”

“Lxkgqbxe.mqecgaxefqbregbe mmiegekcgskxemhehzsizs erczbeygi.ezsercxemsx
gbezsercxemrcxdt”

Yxbrdgixebcmregsegs d.e ygskxegren.ekmnvgszmste“Zebqvvmbxe.mqejsmoegyy
glmqrezr,”ecxebsgdyxit

“Oxyy,eZecgaxemsy.efqbrecxgdiercxehgkrb,elqren.enzsiezbengixeqvt”

“Mc,ezsixxi!eRcxse.mqerczsjercgrercxeBxdvxsrzsxevyg.besmevgdrezsercx
ngrrxd?”

“Zerczsjezreaxd.eqsyzjxy.t”

“Rcxsevxdcgvbe.mqeozyyejzsiy.expvygzsecmoezrezbercgreoxehmqsierczbezs
zr?”eCxemvxsxieczbelg egbecxebvmjx,egsierqnlyxiemsrmercxehymmdeg
oxiizs -idxbbemheogrxdxiebzyj,egevgzdemheoczrxebgrzsebcmxbegsieg
ldzix’beodxgrcegsieaxzy,egyyeizbkmymqdxiegsiebmgjxiezseogrxdte“Rcxdx,”
bgziecx,evqrrzs egesxoeoxiizs -dzs eqvmsercxermvemhercxevzyxte“Rcxdxezb
geyzrryxesqrehmde.mqermekdgkj,eNgbrxdeCmynxbt”

“Mc,ezsixxi!”ebgzien.ehdzxsi,elymozs elyqxedzs bezsrmercxegzdte“.mq
idg  xiercxnehdmnercxeBxdvxsrzsx?”

“SmteRcx.eoxdxehmqsiehymgrzs esxgdercxengd zsel.egevgdj-jxxvxdteRcx.
cgaxelxxsezixsrzhzxiegbecxdekymrcxb,egsiezrebxxnxiermenxercgrezhercx
kymrcxbeoxdxercxdxercxelmi.eomqyiesmrelxehgdemhht”

“L.ercxebgnxeldzyyzgsredxgbmszs ,exaxd.engs’belmi.ezbermelxehmqsiezs
rcxesxz clmqdcmmiemheczbeogdidmlxteGsievdg.eocgreizie.mqecmvxermegddzax
grercdmq cerczb?”

“Grebmnxexazixskxeznvyzkgrzs eHymdgeNzyygdezsercxeizbgvvxgdgskxt”

“Zegneghdgziercgre.mqeozyyehzsiezreizhhzkqyrt”

“Gdxe.mq,ezsixxi,esmo?”ekdzxieYxbrdgixeozrcebmnxelzrrxdsxbbte“Zegn
ghdgzi,eCmynxb,ercgre.mqegdxesmreaxd.evdgkrzkgyeozrce.mqdeixiqkrzmsb
gsie.mqdezshxdxskxbte.mqecgaxengixeromelyqsixdbezsegbengs.enzsqrxbt
RczbeidxbbeimxbeznvyzkgrxeNzbbeHymdgeNzyygdt”

“Gsiecmo?”

“ZsercxeidxbbezbegevmkjxrteZsercxevmkjxrezbegekgdi-kgbxteZsercx
kgdi-kgbxezbegesmrxteGsiecxdxezbercxeaxd.esmrxt”eCxebygvvxiezreimos
qvmsercxerglyxezsehdmsremhecznte“Yzbrxsermerczb:e‘.mqeozyyebxxenxeocxs
gyyezbedxgi.teKmnxegremskxteHteCteNt’eSmoen.ercxmd.egyyegyms ecgbelxxs
rcgreYgi.eBrteBznmseogbeixkm.xiegog.el.eHymdgeNzyygd,egsiercgrebcx,
ozrcekmshxixdgrxb,esmeimqlr,eogbedxbvmsbzlyxehmdecxdeizbgvvxgdgskxt
Cxdx,ebz sxieozrcecxdezszrzgyb,ezbercxeaxd.esmrxeoczkceogbesmeimqlr
uqzxry.ebyzvvxiezsrmecxdecgsiegrercxeimmdegsieoczkceyqdxiecxdeozrczs
rcxzdedxgkct”

“Axd.e mmi,eYxbrdgix,”ebgzieCmynxb,eygq czs te“.mqedxgyy.egdxeaxd.ehzsx
zsixxiteYxrenxebxxezrt”eCxermmjeqvercxevgvxdezsegeyzbryxbbeog.,elqreczb
grrxsrzmsezsbrgsry.elxkgnxedzaxrxi,egsiecxe gaxegeyzrryxekd.emh
bgrzbhgkrzmste“Rczbezbezsixxieznvmdrgsr,”ebgziecxt

“Cg!e.mqehzsiezrebm?”

“Xprdxnxy.ebmteZekms dgrqygrxe.mqeogdny.t”

Yxbrdgixedmbxezseczberdzqnvcegsielxsreczbecxgiermeymmjte“Oc.,”ecx
bcdzxjxi,e“.mq’dxeymmjzs egrercxeodms ebzix!”

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,erczbezbercxedz crebzixt”

“Rcxedz crebzix?e.mq’dxengi!eCxdxezbercxesmrxeodzrrxsezsevxskzyemaxd
cxdxt”

“Gsiemaxdecxdxezbeocgregvvxgdbermelxercxehdg nxsremhegecmrxyelzyy,
oczkcezsrxdxbrbenxeixxvy.t”

“Rcxdx’besmrczs ezsezrteZeymmjxiegrezrelxhmdx,”ebgzieYxbrdgixte“‘Mkrt
4rc,edmmnbe8_b_t,eldxgjhgbre2_b_te6_i_t,ekmkjrgzye1_b_t,eyqskce2_b_t
6_i_t,e ygbbebcxdd.,e8_i_t’eZebxxesmrczs ezsercgrt”

“Axd.eyzjxy.esmrteZrezbenmbreznvmdrgsr,egyyercxebgnxteGbermercxesmrx,
zrezbeznvmdrgsregybm,emdegreyxgbrercxezszrzgybegdx,ebmeZekms dgrqygrx
.mqeg gzst”

“Z’axeogbrxierznxexsmq c,”ebgzieYxbrdgix,edzbzs te“Zelxyzxaxezsecgdi
omdjegsiesmrezsebzrrzs el.ercxehzdxebvzsszs ehzsxercxmdzxbte mmi-ig.,
NdteCmynxb,egsieoxebcgyyebxxeoczkce xrbermercxelmrrmnemhercxengrrxd
hzdbrt”eCxe grcxdxieqvercxe gdnxsrb,ercdqbrercxnezsrmercxelg ,egsiengix
hmdercxeimmdt

“Fqbremsxeczsrerme.mq,eYxbrdgix,”eidgoyxieCmynxbelxhmdxeczbedzagy
agszbcxi;e“Zeozyyerxyye.mqercxerdqxebmyqrzmsemhercxengrrxdteYgi.eBrt
Bznmsezbegen.rcteRcxdxezbesmr,egsiercxdxesxaxdecgbelxxs,egs.ebqkc
vxdbmst”

Yxbrdgixeymmjxiebgiy.egren.ekmnvgszmsteRcxsecxerqdsxiermenx,ergvvxieczb
hmdxcxgiercdxxerznxb,ebcmmjeczbecxgiebmyxnsy.,egsiecqddzxiegog.t

Cxecgiecgdiy.ebcqrercxeimmdelxczsieczneocxseCmynxbedmbxermevqremseczb
maxdkmgrte“Rcxdxezbebmnxrczs ezseocgrercxehxyymoebg.beglmqremqrimmd
omdj,”ecxedxngdjxi,e“bmeZerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgreZenqbreyxgaxe.mqerme.mqd
vgvxdbehmdegeyzrryxt”

Zreogbeghrxdehzaxem’kymkjeocxseBcxdymkjeCmynxbeyxhrenx,elqreZecgiesm
rznxermelxeymsxy.,ehmdeozrczsegsecmqdercxdxegddzaxiegekmshxkrzmsxd’b
ngseozrcegeaxd.eygd xehygrelmpteRczbecxeqsvgkjxieozrcercxecxyvemheg
.mqrceocmnecxecgieldmq creozrceczn,egsievdxbxsry.,ermen.eaxd.e dxgr
gbrmszbcnxsr,egeuqzrxexvzkqdxgseyzrryxekmyiebqvvxdelx gsermelxeygziemqr
qvmsemqdecqnlyxeymi zs -cmqbxengcm gs.teRcxdxeoxdxegekmqvyxemheldgkxemh
kmyieommikmkj,egevcxgbgsr,ege_vâréeixehmzxe dgb_evzxeozrcege dmqvemh
gskzxsregsiekmloxll.elmrryxbteCgazs eygziemqregyyercxbxeyqpqdzxb,en.
romeazbzrmdbeagszbcxiegog.,eyzjxercxe xszzemhercxeGdglzgseSz crb,eozrc
smexpvygsgrzmsebgaxercgrercxerczs becgielxxsevgziehmdegsieoxdxemdixdxi
rmerczbegiidxbbt

Fqbrelxhmdxeszsxem’kymkjeBcxdymkjeCmynxbebrxvvxieldzbjy.ezsrmercxedmmnt
Czbehxgrqdxbeoxdxe dgaxy.ebxr,elqrercxdxeogbegeyz crezseczbex.xeoczkc
ngixenxerczsjercgrecxecgiesmrelxxseizbgvvmzsrxiezseczbekmskyqbzmsbt

“Rcx.ecgaxeygziercxebqvvxd,ercxs,”ecxebgzi,edqllzs eczbecgsibt

“.mqebxxnermexpvxkrekmnvgs.teRcx.ecgaxeygziehmdehzaxt”

“.xb,eZehgsk.eoxeng.ecgaxebmnxekmnvgs.eidmvvzs ezs,”ebgziecxte“Zegn
bqdvdzbxiercgreYmdieBrteBznmsecgbesmregydxgi.egddzaxiteCg!eZehgsk.ercgr
Zecxgdeczbebrxvesmoeqvmsercxebrgzdbt”

Zreogbezsixxiemqdeazbzrmdemhercxeghrxdsmmseocmekgnxelqbryzs ezs,
igs yzs eczbe ygbbxbenmdxeaz mdmqby.ercgsexaxd,egsieozrcegeaxd.
vxdrqdlxiexpvdxbbzmseqvmseczbegdzbrmkdgrzkehxgrqdxbt

“N.enxbbxs xdedxgkcxie.mq,ercxs?”egbjxieCmynxbt

“.xb,egsieZekmshxbbercgrercxekmsrxsrbebrgdryxienxelx.msienxgbqdxteCgax
.mqe mmiegqrcmdzr.ehmdeocgre.mqebg.?”

“Rcxelxbrevmbbzlyxt”

YmdieBrteBznmsebgsjezsrmegekcgzdegsievgbbxieczbecgsiemaxdeczbehmdxcxgit

“OcgreozyyercxeIqjxebg.,”ecxenqdnqdxi,e“ocxsecxecxgdbercgremsxemhercx
hgnzy.ecgbelxxsebqlfxkrxiermebqkcecqnzyzgrzms?”

“ZrezbercxevqdxbregkkzixsrteZekgssmregyymoercgrercxdxezbegs.
cqnzyzgrzmst”

“Gc,e.mqeymmjemsercxbxerczs behdmnegsmrcxdebrgsivmzsrt”

“Zehgzyermebxxercgregs.msxezbermelygnxteZekgsecgdiy.ebxxecmoercxeygi.
kmqyiecgaxegkrxiemrcxdozbx,ercmq cecxdegldqvrenxrcmiemheimzs ezreogb
qsimqlrxiy.ermelxedx dxrrxiteCgazs esmenmrcxd,ebcxecgiesmemsxermegiazbx
cxdegrebqkcegekdzbzbt”

“Zreogbegebyz cr,ebzd,egevqlyzkebyz cr,”ebgzieYmdieBrteBznms,ergvvzs 
czbehzs xdbeqvmsercxerglyxt

“.mqenqbrengjxegyymogskxehmderczbevmmde zdy,evygkxiezsebmeqsvdxkxixsrxi
gevmbzrzmst”

“ZeozyyengjxesmegyymogskxteZegneaxd.egs d.ezsixxi,egsieZecgaxelxxs
bcgnxhqyy.eqbxit”

“ZerczsjercgreZecxgdiegedzs ,”ebgzieCmynxbte“.xb,ercxdxegdxebrxvbems
rcxeygsizs teZheZekgssmrevxdbqgixe.mqermergjxegeyxszxsreazxoemhercx
ngrrxd,eYmdieBrteBznms,eZecgaxeldmq cregsegiamkgrxecxdxeocmeng.elxenmdx
bqkkxbbhqyt”eCxemvxsxiercxeimmdegsieqbcxdxiezsegeygi.egsie xsryxngst
“YmdieBrteBznms,”ebgziecxe“gyymoenxermezsrdmiqkxe.mqermeNdtegsieNdbt
HdgskzbeCg.eNmqyrmsteRcxeygi.,eZerczsj,e.mqecgaxegydxgi.enxrt”

Grercxebz cremhercxbxesxokmnxdbemqdekyzxsrecgiebvdqs ehdmneczbebxgregsi
brmmieaxd.exdxkr,eozrceczbex.xbekgbreimosegsieczbecgsiercdqbrezsrmercx
ldxgbremheczbehdmkj-kmgr,egevzkrqdxemhemhhxsixieiz szr.teRcxeygi.ecgi
rgjxsegeuqzkjebrxvehmdogdiegsiecgiecxyiemqrecxdecgsiermeczn,elqrecx
brzyyedxhqbxiermedgzbxeczbex.xbteZreogbegbeoxyyehmdeczbedxbmyqrzms,
vxdcgvb,ehmdecxdevyxgizs ehgkxeogbemsxeoczkcezreogbecgdiermedxbzbrt

“.mq’dxegs d.,eDmlxdr,”ebgziebcxte“Oxyy,eZe qxbbe.mqecgaxexaxd.ekgqbx
rmelxt”

“Vdg.engjxesmegvmym .ermenx,”ebgzieYmdieBrteBznmselzrrxdy.t

“Mc,e.xb,eZejsmoercgreZecgaxerdxgrxie.mqedxgyelgiegsiercgreZebcmqyi
cgaxebvmjxserme.mqelxhmdxeZeoxsr;elqreZeogbejzsiemhedgrryxi,egsiehdmn
rcxerznxeocxseZebgoeHdgsjecxdxeg gzseZefqbreizis’rejsmoeocgreZeogb
imzs emdebg.zs teZemsy.eomsixdeZeizis’rehgyyeimosegsieimegehgzsredz cr
rcxdxelxhmdxercxegyrgdt”

“Vxdcgvb,eNdbteNmqyrms,e.mqeomqyieyzjxen.ehdzxsiegsienxermeyxgaxercx
dmmneoczyxe.mqexpvygzserczbengrrxd?”

“ZheZeng.e zaxegsemvzszms,”edxngdjxiercxebrdgs xe xsryxngs,e“ox’axecgi
fqbregeyzrryxermmenqkcebxkdxk.emaxderczbelqbzsxbbegydxgi.teHmden.evgdr,
ZebcmqyieyzjxegyyeXqdmvxegsieGnxdzkgermecxgdercxedz crbemhezrt”eCxeogb
gebngyy,eozd.,ebqslqdsrengs,ekyxgs-bcgaxs,eozrcegebcgdvehgkxegsiegyxdr
ngssxdt

“RcxseZ’yyerxyyemqdebrmd.edz cregog.,”ebgziercxeygi.te“HdgsjecxdxegsieZ
nxrezse’84,ezseNkUqzdx’bekgnv,esxgdercxeDmkjzxb,eocxdxeVgeogbeomdjzs eg
kygznteOxeoxdxexs g xiermexgkcemrcxd,eHdgsjegsieZ;elqrercxsemsxeig.
hgrcxdebrdqkjegedzkcevmkjxregsiengixegevzyx,eoczyxevmmdeHdgsjecxdxecgi
gekygznercgrevxrxdxiemqregsiekgnxermesmrczs teRcxedzkcxdeVge dxoercx
vmmdxdeogbeHdgsj;ebmegreygbreVgeomqyis’recxgdemhemqdexs g xnxsreygbrzs 
gs.eyms xd,egsiecxermmjenxegog.erme’HdzbkmteHdgsjeomqyis’rercdmoeqveczb
cgsi,ercmq c;ebmecxehmyymoxienxercxdx,egsiecxebgoenxeozrcmqreVgejsmozs 
gs.rczs eglmqrezrteZreomqyiemsy.ecgaxengixecznengiermejsmo,ebmeoxefqbr
hzpxiezregyyeqvehmdemqdbxyaxbteHdgsjebgziercgrecxeomqyie megsiengjxeczb
vzyx,ermm,egsiesxaxdekmnxelgkjermekygznenxeqsrzyecxecgiegbenqkcegbeVgt
BmercxseZevdmnzbxiermeogzrehmdecznermercxexsiemherznxegsievyxi xi
n.bxyhesmrermengdd.egs.msxexybxeoczyxecxeyzaxite‘Oc.ebcmqyis’reoxelx
ngddzxiedz cregog.,ercxs,’ebgziecx,e‘gsiercxseZeozyyehxxyebqdxemhe.mq;
gsieZeoms’rekygznermelxe.mqdecqblgsieqsrzyeZekmnxelgkj?’eOxyy,eox
rgyjxiezremaxd,egsiecxecgiehzpxiezregyyeqvebmeszkxy.,eozrcegekyxd .ngs
gyyedxgi.ezseogzrzs ,ercgreoxefqbreiziezredz crercxdx;egsiercxseHdgsj
oxsremhhermebxxjeczbehmdrqsx,egsieZeoxsrelgkjermeVgt

“RcxesxpreZecxgdiemheHdgsjeogbercgrecxeogbezseNmsrgsg,egsiercxsecxeoxsr
vdmbvxkrzs ezseGdzwmsg,egsiercxseZecxgdiemhecznehdmneSxoeNxpzkmteGhrxd
rcgrekgnxegeyms esxobvgvxdebrmd.eglmqrecmoegenzsxdb’ekgnvecgielxxs
grrgkjxiel.eGvgkcxeZsizgsb,egsiercxdxeogben.eHdgsj’besgnxegnms ercx
jzyyxiteZehgzsrxieixgiegog.,egsieZeogbeaxd.ebzkjehmdenmsrcbeghrxdteVg
rcmq creZecgiegeixkyzsxegsiermmjenxermecgyhercxeimkrmdbezse’HdzbkmteSmr
geomdiemhesxobekgnxehmdege.xgdegsienmdx,ebmercgreZesxaxdeimqlrxiercgr
Hdgsjeogbedxgyy.eixgiteRcxseYmdieBrteBznmsekgnxerme’Hdzbkm,egsieoxekgnx
rmeYmsims,egsiegengddzg xeogbegddgs xi,egsieVgeogbeaxd.evyxgbxi,elqreZ
hxyregyyercxerznxercgresmengsemserczbexgdrceomqyiexaxdergjxercxevygkx
zsen.ecxgdrercgrecgielxxse zaxsermen.evmmdeHdgsjt

“Brzyy,ezheZecgiengddzxieYmdieBrteBznms,emhekmqdbxeZ’iecgaxeimsxen.
iqr.el.ecznteOxekgs’rekmnngsiemqdeymax,elqreoxekgsemqdegkrzmsbteZeoxsr
rmercxegyrgdeozrceczneozrcercxezsrxsrzmsermengjxecznefqbregbe mmieg
ozhxegbezreogbezsenxermelxteLqre.mqeng.ezng zsxeocgreZehxyreocxs,efqbr
gbeZekgnxermercxegyrgdedgzyb,eZe ygskxielgkjegsiebgoeHdgsjebrgsizs egsi
ymmjzs egrenxemqremhercxehzdbrevxoteZercmq crezreogbeczbe cmbregr
hzdbr;elqreocxseZeymmjxieg gzsercxdxecxeogbebrzyy,eozrcegejzsiemh
uqxbrzmsezseczbex.xb,egbezhermegbjenxeocxrcxdeZeoxdxe ygiemdebmdd.erm
bxxecznteZeomsixdeZeizis’reidmvteZejsmoercgrexaxd.rczs eogberqdszs 
dmqsi,egsiercxeomdibemhercxekyxd .ngseoxdxefqbreyzjxercxelqwwemhegelxx
zsen.exgdteZeizis’rejsmoeocgrermeimteBcmqyieZebrmvercxebxdazkxegsiengjx
gebkxsxezsercxekcqdkc?eZe ygskxiegreczneg gzs,egsiecxebxxnxiermejsmo
ocgreZeogberczsjzs ,ehmdecxedgzbxieczbehzs xdermeczbeyzvbermerxyyenxerm
lxebrzyyteRcxseZebgoecznebkdzllyxemsegevzxkxemhevgvxd,egsieZejsxoercgr
cxeogbeodzrzs enxegesmrxteGbeZevgbbxieczbevxoemsercxeog.emqreZeidmvvxi
n.elmquqxremaxdermeczn,egsiecxebyzvvxiercxesmrxezsrmen.ecgsieocxsecx
dxrqdsxienxercxehymoxdbteZreogbemsy.egeyzsxegbjzs enxermefmzseczneocxs
cxengixercxebz sermenxermeimebmteMhekmqdbxeZesxaxdeimqlrxiehmdegenmnxsr
rcgren.ehzdbreiqr.eogbesmoermeczn,egsieZeixrxdnzsxiermeimefqbreocgrxaxd
cxenz creizdxkrt

“OcxseZe mrelgkjeZermyien.engzi,eocmecgiejsmosecznezseKgyzhmdszg,egsi
cgiegyog.belxxseczbehdzxsiteZemdixdxiecxdermebg.esmrczs ,elqrerme xreg
hxoerczs bevgkjxiegsien.eqybrxdedxgi.teZejsmoeZemq crermecgaxebvmjxserm
YmdieBrteBznms,elqrezreogbeidxgihqyecgdielxhmdxeczbenmrcxdegsiegyy
rcmbxe dxgrevxmvyxteZefqbrengixeqven.enzsiermedqsegog.egsiexpvygzs
ghrxdogdibteZecgis’relxxsegrercxerglyxerxsenzsqrxbelxhmdxeZebgoeHdgsj
mqremhercxeozsimoegrercxemrcxdebzixemhercxedmgiteCxelxkjmsxiermenxegsi
rcxselx gseogyjzs ezsrmercxeVgdjteZebyzvvxiemqr,evqremsen.erczs b,egsi
hmyymoxiecznteBmnxeomngsekgnxergyjzs ebmnxrczs emdemrcxdeglmqreYmdieBrt
Bznmsermenx—bxxnxiermenxehdmnercxeyzrryxeZecxgdiegbezhecxecgiegeyzrryx
bxkdxremheczbemoselxhmdxengddzg xegybm—lqreZengsg xierme xregog.ehdmn
cxdegsiebmmsemaxdrmmjeHdgsjteOxe mrezsrmegekglerm xrcxd,egsiegog.eox
idmaxermebmnxeymi zs becxecgiergjxsezse mdimseBuqgdx,egsiercgreogben.
rdqxeoxiizs eghrxdegyyercmbxe.xgdbemheogzrzs teHdgsjecgielxxseg
vdzbmsxdegnms ercxeGvgkcxb,ecgiexbkgvxi,ekgnxemserme’Hdzbkm,ehmqsiercgr
Zecgie zaxseczneqvehmdeixgiegsiecgie msxermeXs ygsi,ehmyymoxienxercxdx,
gsiecgiekmnxeqvmsenxegreygbremsercxeaxd.enmdszs emhen.ebxkmsieoxiizs t”

“Zebgoezrezsegevgvxd,”expvygzsxiercxeGnxdzkgste“Zre gaxercxesgnxegsi
rcxekcqdkcelqresmreocxdxercxeygi.eyzaxit”

“Rcxseoxecgiegergyjegbermeocgreoxebcmqyieim,egsieHdgsjeogbegyyehmd
mvxssxbb,elqreZeogbebmegbcgnxiemhezregyyercgreZehxyregbezheZebcmqyi
yzjxermeagszbcegog.egsiesxaxdebxxegs.emhercxneg gzs—fqbrebxsizs egeyzsx
rmeVg,evxdcgvb,ermebcmoecznercgreZeogbegyzaxteZreogbegohqyermenxerm
rczsjemhegyyercmbxeymdibegsieygizxbebzrrzs edmqsiercgreldxgjhgbr-rglyx
gsieogzrzs ehmdenxermekmnxelgkjteBmeHdgsjermmjen.eoxiizs -kymrcxbegsi
rczs begsiengixegelqsiyxemhercxn,ebmercgreZebcmqyiesmrelxerdgkxi,egsi
idmvvxiercxnegog.ebmnxocxdxeocxdxesmemsxekmqyiehzsiercxnteZrezbeyzjxy.
rcgreoxebcmqyiecgaxe msxemsermeVgdzberm-nmddmo,emsy.ercgrerczbe mmi
 xsryxngs,eNdteCmynxb,ekgnxedmqsiermeqberczbexaxszs ,ercmq cecmoecx
hmqsieqbezbenmdxercgseZekgserczsj,egsiecxebcmoxieqbeaxd.ekyxgdy.egsi
jzsiy.ercgreZeogbeodms egsiercgreHdgsjeogbedz cr,egsiercgreoxebcmqyielx
vqrrzs emqdbxyaxbezsercxeodms ezheoxeoxdxebmebxkdxrteRcxsecxemhhxdxierm
 zaxeqbegekcgskxemhergyjzs ermeYmdieBrteBznmsegymsx,egsiebmeoxekgnx
dz cregog.edmqsiermeczbedmmnbegremskxteSmo,eDmlxdr,e.mqecgaxecxgdiezr
gyy,egsieZegneaxd.ebmdd.ezheZecgaxe zaxse.mqevgzs,egsieZecmvxercgre.mq
imesmrerczsjeaxd.enxgsy.emhenxt”

YmdieBrteBznmsecgiel.esmenxgsbedxygpxieczbedz ziegrrzrqix,elqrecgi
yzbrxsxieozrcegehdmoszs eldmoegsiegekmnvdxbbxieyzvermerczbeyms 
sgddgrzaxt

“Xpkqbxenx,”ecxebgzi,e“lqrezrezbesmren.ekqbrmnermeizbkqbben.enmbr
zsrzngrxevxdbmsgyeghhgzdbezserczbevqlyzkengssxdt”

“Rcxse.mqeoms’rehmd zaxenx?e.mqeoms’rebcgjxecgsibelxhmdxeZe m?”

“Mc,ekxdrgzsy.,ezhezreomqyie zaxe.mqegs.evyxgbqdxt”eCxevqremqreczbecgsi
gsiekmyiy.e dgbvxiercgreoczkcebcxexprxsixiermecznt

“Zecgiecmvxi,”ebq  xbrxieCmynxb,e“rcgre.mqeomqyiecgaxefmzsxieqbezseg
hdzxsiy.ebqvvxdt”

“Zerczsjercgrercxdxe.mqegbjegeyzrryxermmenqkc,”edxbvmsixieczbeYmdibczvt
“Zeng.elxehmdkxiermegkuqzxbkxezsercxbxedxkxsreixaxymvnxsrb,elqreZekgs
cgdiy.elxexpvxkrxiermengjxenxdd.emaxdercxnteZerczsjercgreozrce.mqd
vxdnzbbzmseZeozyyesmoeozbce.mqegyyegeaxd.e mmi-sz crt”eCxezskyqixieqb
gyyezsegeboxxvzs elmoegsiebrgyjxiemqremhercxedmmnt

“RcxseZerdqbrercgre.mqegreyxgbreozyyecmsmqdenxeozrce.mqdekmnvgs.,”ebgzi
BcxdymkjeCmynxbte“Zrezbegyog.begefm.ermenxxregseGnxdzkgs,eNdteNmqyrms,
hmdeZegnemsxemhercmbxeocmelxyzxaxercgrercxehmyy.emhegenmsgdkcegsiercx
lyqsixdzs emhegenzszbrxdezsehgd- msxe.xgdbeozyyesmrevdxaxsremqd
kczyidxsehdmnelxzs ebmnxeig.ekzrzwxsbemhercxebgnxeomdyi-ozixekmqsrd.
qsixdegehyg eoczkcebcgyyelxegeuqgdrxdzs emhercxeQszmseFgkjeozrcercx
BrgdbegsieBrdzvxbt”

“Rcxekgbxecgbelxxsegsezsrxdxbrzs emsx,”edxngdjxieCmynxbeocxsemqd
azbzrmdbecgieyxhreqb,e“lxkgqbxezrebxdaxbermebcmoeaxd.ekyxgdy.ecmo
bznvyxercxexpvygsgrzmseng.elxemhegseghhgzdeoczkcegrehzdbrebz crebxxnb
rmelxegynmbrezsxpvyzkglyxteSmrczs ekmqyielxenmdxesgrqdgyercgsercx
bxuqxskxemhexaxsrbegbesgddgrxiel.erczbeygi.,egsiesmrczs ebrdgs xdercgs
rcxedxbqyreocxseazxoxi,ehmdezsbrgskx,el.eNdteYxbrdgixemheBkmrygsi
.gdit”

“.mqeoxdxesmre.mqdbxyhegrehgqyregregyy,ercxs?”

“Hdmnercxehzdbr,eromehgkrbeoxdxeaxd.emlazmqbermenx,ercxemsxercgrercx
ygi.ecgielxxseuqzrxeozyyzs ermeqsixd mercxeoxiizs ekxdxnms.,ercxemrcxd
rcgrebcxecgiedxvxsrxiemhezreozrczsegehxoenzsqrxbemhedxrqdszs ecmnxt
Mlazmqby.ebmnxrczs ecgiemkkqddxieiqdzs ercxenmdszs ,ercxs,ermekgqbxecxd
rmekcgs xecxdenzsiteOcgrekmqyiercgrebmnxrczs elx?eBcxekmqyiesmrecgax
bvmjxsermegs.msxeocxsebcxeogbemqr,ehmdebcxecgielxxsezsercxekmnvgs.emh
rcxeldzix dmmnteCgiebcxebxxsebmnxmsx,ercxs?eZhebcxecgi,ezrenqbrelx
bmnxmsxehdmneGnxdzkgelxkgqbxebcxecgiebvxsrebmebcmdregerznxezserczb
kmqsrd.ercgrebcxekmqyiecgdiy.ecgaxegyymoxiegs.msxermegkuqzdxebmeixxvegs
zshyqxskxemaxdecxdercgrercxenxdxebz cremheczneomqyiezsiqkxecxderm
kcgs xecxdevygsbebmekmnvyxrxy.te.mqebxxeoxecgaxegydxgi.egddzaxi,el.eg
vdmkxbbemhexpkyqbzms,egrercxezixgercgrebcxenz crecgaxebxxsegseGnxdzkgst
RcxseocmekmqyierczbeGnxdzkgselx,egsieoc.ebcmqyiecxevmbbxbbebmenqkc
zshyqxskxemaxdecxd?eZrenz crelxegeymaxd;ezrenz crelxegecqblgsiteCxd
.mqs eomngscmmiecgi,eZejsxo,elxxsebvxsrezsedmq cebkxsxbegsieqsixd
brdgs xekmsizrzmsbteBmehgdeZecgie mrelxhmdxeZexaxdecxgdieYmdieBrt
Bznms’besgddgrzaxteOcxsecxermyieqbemhegengsezsegevxo,emhercxekcgs xezs
rcxeldzix’bengssxd,emhebmerdgsbvgdxsregeixazkxehmdemlrgzszs egesmrxegb
rcxeidmvvzs emhegelmquqxr,emhecxdedxbmdrermecxdekmshzixsrzgyengzi,egsi
mhecxdeaxd.ebz szhzkgsregyyqbzmsermekygzn-fqnvzs —oczkcezsenzsxdb’
vgdygskxenxgsbergjzs evmbbxbbzmsemhercgreoczkcegsmrcxdevxdbmsecgbeg
vdzmdekygznerm—rcxeocmyxebzrqgrzmselxkgnxeglbmyqrxy.ekyxgdteBcxecgi
 msxemhheozrcegengs,egsiercxengseogbexzrcxdegeymaxdemdeogbegevdxazmqb
cqblgsi—rcxekcgskxbelxzs ezsehgamqdemhercxeygrrxdt”

“Gsiecmoezsercxeomdyieizie.mqehzsiercxn?”

“Zrenz crecgaxelxxseizhhzkqyr,elqrehdzxsieYxbrdgixecxyiezshmdngrzmsezs
czbecgsibercxeagyqxemheoczkcecxeiziesmrecznbxyhejsmoteRcxezszrzgyb
oxdx,emhekmqdbx,emhercxecz cxbreznvmdrgskx,elqrenmdxeagyqglyxebrzyyeogb
zrermejsmoercgreozrczsegeoxxjecxecgiebxrryxieczbelzyyegremsxemhercx
nmbrebxyxkreYmsimsecmrxybt”

“Cmoeizie.mqeixiqkxercxebxyxkr?”

“L.ercxebxyxkrevdzkxbteXz crebczyyzs behmdegelxiegsiexz crvxskxehmdeg
 ygbbemhebcxdd.evmzsrxiermemsxemhercxenmbrexpvxsbzaxecmrxybteRcxdxegdx
smrengs.ezseYmsimseoczkcekcgd xegrercgredgrxteZsercxebxkmsiemsxeoczkceZ
azbzrxiezseSmdrcqnlxdygsieGaxsqx,eZeyxgdsxiel.egsezsbvxkrzmsemhercx
lmmjercgreHdgskzbeCteNmqyrms,egseGnxdzkgse xsryxngs,ecgieyxhremsy.ercx
ig.elxhmdx,egsiemseymmjzs emaxdercxexsrdzxbeg gzsbreczn,eZekgnxeqvms
rcxeaxd.ezrxnbeoczkceZecgiebxxsezsercxeiqvyzkgrxelzyyteCzbeyxrrxdbeoxdx
rmelxehmdogdixierme226e mdimseBuqgdx;ebmerczrcxdeZerdgaxyyxi,egsielxzs 
hmdrqsgrxexsmq cermehzsiercxeymazs ekmqvyxegrecmnx,eZeaxsrqdxierme zax
rcxnebmnxevgrxdsgyegiazkxegsiermevmzsremqrermercxnercgrezreomqyielx
lxrrxdezsexaxd.eog.ercgrercx.ebcmqyiengjxercxzdevmbzrzmsegeyzrryx
kyxgdxdelmrcermercxe xsxdgyevqlyzkegsiermeYmdieBrteBznmsezsevgdrzkqygdt
Zezsazrxiercxnermenxxrecznecxdx,egsi,egbe.mqebxx,eZengixecznejxxvercx
gvvmzsrnxsrt”

“Lqreozrcesmeaxd.e mmiedxbqyr,”eZedxngdjxite“Czbekmsiqkreogbekxdrgzsy.
smreaxd.e dgkzmqbt”

“Gc,eOgrbms,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebnzyzs ,e“vxdcgvbe.mqeomqyiesmrelxeaxd.
 dgkzmqbexzrcxd,ezh,eghrxdegyyercxerdmqlyxemheommzs egsieoxiizs ,e.mq
hmqsie.mqdbxyheixvdzaxiezsegsezsbrgsremheozhxegsiemhehmdrqsxteZerczsj
rcgreoxeng.efqi xeYmdieBrteBznmseaxd.enxdkzhqyy.egsiercgsjemqdebrgdb
rcgreoxegdxesxaxdeyzjxy.ermehzsiemqdbxyaxbezsercxebgnxevmbzrzmsteIdgo
.mqdekcgzdeqvegsiecgsienxen.eazmyzs,ehmdercxemsy.evdmlyxneoxecgaxebrzyy
rmebmyaxezbecmoermeoczyxegog.ercxbxelyxgjegqrqnsgyexaxszs bt”



PZteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeLXD.YeKMDMSXR

“Cmynxb,”ebgzieZegbeZebrmmiemsxenmdszs ezsemqdelmo-ozsimoeymmjzs eimos
rcxebrdxxr,e“cxdxezbegengingsekmnzs egyms teZrebxxnbedgrcxdebgiercgr
czbedxygrzaxbebcmqyiegyymoecznermekmnxemqregymsxt”

N.ehdzxsiedmbxeygwzy.ehdmneczbegdnkcgzdegsiebrmmieozrceczbecgsibezsercx
vmkjxrbemheczbeidxbbzs - mos,eymmjzs emaxden.ebcmqyixdteZreogbeg
ldz cr,ekdzbveHxldqgd.enmdszs ,egsiercxebsmoemhercxeig.elxhmdxebrzyy
yg.eixxveqvmsercxe dmqsi,ebcznnxdzs eldz cry.ezsercxeozsrd.ebqsteImos
rcxekxsrdxemheLgjxdeBrdxxrezrecgielxxsevymq cxiezsrmegeldmosekdqnly.
lgsiel.ercxerdghhzk,elqregrexzrcxdebzixegsiemsercxecxgvxi-qvexi xbemh
rcxehmmrvgrcbezrebrzyyeyg.egbeoczrxegbeocxsezrehxyyteRcxe dx.evgaxnxsr
cgielxxsekyxgsxiegsiebkdgvxi,elqreogbebrzyyeigs xdmqby.ebyzvvxd.,ebm
rcgrercxdxeoxdxehxoxdevgbbxs xdbercgseqbqgyteZsixxi,ehdmnercxeizdxkrzms
mhercxeNxrdmvmyzrgseBrgrzmsesmemsxeogbekmnzs ebgaxercxebzs yxe xsryxngs
ocmbxexkkxsrdzkekmsiqkrecgieidgosen.egrrxsrzmst

Cxeogbegengsemheglmqrehzhr.,ergyy,evmdry.,egsieznvmbzs ,eozrceg
ngbbzax,ebrdms y.engdjxiehgkxegsiegekmnngsizs ehz qdxteCxeogbeidxbbxi
zsegebmnldxe.xredzkcebr.yx,ezselygkjehdmkj-kmgr,ebczszs ecgr,esxgr
ldmose gzrxdb,egsieoxyy-kqrevxgdy- dx.erdmqbxdbte.xreczbegkrzmsbeoxdx
zseglbqdiekmsrdgbrermercxeiz szr.emheczbeidxbbegsiehxgrqdxb,ehmdecxeogb
dqsszs ecgdi,eozrcemkkgbzmsgyeyzrryxebvdzs b,ebqkcegbegeoxgd.engse zaxb
ocmezbeyzrryxegkkqbrmnxiermebxregs.ergpeqvmseczbeyx bteGbecxedgsecx
fxdjxieczbecgsibeqvegsieimos,eog  yxieczbecxgi,egsieodzrcxieczbehgkx
zsrmercxenmbrexprdgmdizsgd.ekmsrmdrzmsbt

“Ocgremsexgdrcekgselxercxengrrxdeozrceczn?”eZegbjxite“Cxezbeymmjzs eqv
grercxesqnlxdbemhercxecmqbxbt”

“Zelxyzxaxercgrecxezbekmnzs ecxdx,”ebgzieCmynxb,edqllzs eczbecgsibt

“Cxdx?”

“.xb;eZedgrcxderczsjecxezbekmnzs ermekmsbqyrenxevdmhxbbzmsgyy.teZerczsj
rcgreZedxkm szbxercxeb.nvrmnbteCg!eizieZesmrerxyye.mq?”eGbecxebvmjx,
rcxengs,evqhhzs egsielymozs ,edqbcxiegremqdeimmdegsievqyyxiegremqdelxyy
qsrzyercxeocmyxecmqbxedxbmqsixieozrcercxekygs zs t

Gehxoenmnxsrbeygrxdecxeogbezsemqdedmmn,ebrzyyevqhhzs ,ebrzyy
 xbrzkqygrzs ,elqreozrcebmehzpxiegeymmjemhe dzxhegsieixbvgzdezseczb
x.xbercgremqdebnzyxbeoxdxerqdsxiezsegsezsbrgsrermecmddmdegsievzr.teHmd
geoczyxecxekmqyiesmre xreczbeomdibemqr,elqrebog.xieczbelmi.egsievyqkjxi
greczbecgzdeyzjxemsxeocmecgbelxxseidzaxsermercxexprdxnxeyznzrbemheczb
dxgbmsteRcxs,ebqiixsy.ebvdzs zs ermeczbehxxr,ecxelxgreczbecxgieg gzsbr
rcxeogyyeozrcebqkcehmdkxercgreoxelmrcedqbcxieqvmsecznegsiermdxecznegog.
rmercxekxsrdxemhercxedmmnteBcxdymkjeCmynxbevqbcxieczneimosezsrmercx
xgb.-kcgzdegsi,ebzrrzs elxbzixeczn,evgrrxieczbecgsiegsiekcgrrxieozrc
cznezsercxexgb.,ebmmrczs ermsxbeoczkcecxejsxoebmeoxyyecmoermexnvym.t

“.mqecgaxekmnxermenxermerxyye.mqdebrmd.,ecgaxe.mqesmr?”ebgziecxte“.mq
gdxehgrz qxieozrce.mqdecgbrxteVdg.eogzreqsrzye.mqecgaxedxkmaxdxi
.mqdbxyh,egsiercxseZebcgyyelxenmbrecgvv.ermeymmjezsrmegs.eyzrryx
vdmlyxneoczkce.mqeng.ebqlnzrermenxt”

Rcxengsebgrehmdegenzsqrxemdenmdxeozrcegecxgazs ekcxbr,ehz crzs eg gzsbr
czbexnmrzmsteRcxsecxevgbbxieczbecgsijxdkczxhemaxdeczbeldmo,ebxreczb
yzvberz cr,egsierqdsxieczbehgkxermogdibeqbt

“Smeimqlre.mqerczsjenxengi?”ebgziecxt

“Zebxxercgre.mqecgaxecgiebmnxe dxgrerdmqlyx,”edxbvmsixieCmynxbt

“ miejsmobeZecgax!—gerdmqlyxeoczkcezbexsmq cermeqsbxgren.edxgbms,ebm
bqiixsegsiebmerxddzlyxezbezrteVqlyzkeizb dgkxeZenz crecgaxehgkxi,
gyrcmq ceZegnegengseocmbxekcgdgkrxdecgbesxaxde.xrelmdsxegebrgzst
Vdzagrxeghhyzkrzmsegybmezbercxeymremhexaxd.engs;elqrercxeromekmnzs 
rm xrcxd,egsiezsebmehdz crhqyegehmdn,ecgaxelxxsexsmq cermebcgjxen.eaxd.
bmqyteLxbzixb,ezrezbesmreZegymsxteRcxeaxd.esmlyxbrezsercxeygsieng.
bqhhxdeqsyxbbebmnxeog.elxehmqsiemqremherczbecmddzlyxeghhgzdt”

“Vdg.ekmnvmbxe.mqdbxyh,ebzd,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“gsieyxrenxecgaxegekyxgd
gkkmqsremheocme.mqegdxegsieocgrezrezbercgrecgbelxhgyyxse.mqt”

“N.esgnx,”egsboxdxiemqdeazbzrmd,e“zbevdmlgly.ehgnzyzgderme.mqdexgdbteZ
gneGyxpgsixdeCmyixd,emhercxelgsjzs ehzdnemheCmyixde&eBrxaxsbms,emh
RcdxgisxxiyxeBrdxxrt”

Rcxesgnxeogbezsixxieoxyyejsmosermeqbegbelxyms zs ermercxebxszmdevgdrsxd
zsercxebxkmsieygd xbrevdzagrxelgsjzs ekmskxdsezsercxeKzr.emheYmsimst
Ocgrekmqyiecgaxecgvvxsxi,ercxs,ermeldzs emsxemhercxehmdxnmbrekzrzwxsb
mheYmsimsermerczbenmbrevzrzglyxevgbb?eOxeogzrxi,egyyekqdzmbzr.,eqsrzy
ozrcegsmrcxdexhhmdrecxeldgkxiecznbxyhermerxyyeczbebrmd.t

“Zehxxyercgrerznxezbemheagyqx,”ebgziecx;e“rcgrezbeoc.eZecgbrxsxiecxdx
ocxsercxevmyzkxezsbvxkrmdebq  xbrxiercgreZebcmqyiebxkqdxe.mqd
km-mvxdgrzmsteZekgnxermeLgjxdeBrdxxrel.ercxeQsixd dmqsiegsiecqddzxi
hdmnercxdxemsehmmr,ehmdercxekglbe mebymoy.ercdmq cerczbebsmoteRcgrezb
oc.eZeogbebmemqremheldxgrc,ehmdeZegnegengseocmergjxbeaxd.eyzrryx
xpxdkzbxteZehxxyelxrrxdesmo,egsieZeozyyevqrercxehgkrbelxhmdxe.mqegb
bcmdry.egsie.xregbekyxgdy.egbeZekgst

“Zrezb,emhekmqdbx,eoxyyejsmoserme.mqercgrezsegebqkkxbbhqyelgsjzs 
lqbzsxbbegbenqkceixvxsibeqvmsemqdelxzs eglyxermehzsiedxnqsxdgrzax
zsaxbrnxsrbehmdemqdehqsibegbeqvmsemqdezskdxgbzs emqdekmssxkrzmsegsiercx
sqnlxdemhemqdeixvmbzrmdbteMsxemhemqdenmbreyqkdgrzaxenxgsbemheyg.zs emqr
nmsx.ezbezsercxebcgvxemheymgsb,eocxdxercxebxkqdzr.ezbeqsznvxgkcglyxteOx
cgaxeimsxege mmieixgyezserczbeizdxkrzmseiqdzs ercxeygbrehxoe.xgdb,egsi
rcxdxegdxengs.esmlyxehgnzyzxbermeocmneoxecgaxegiagskxieygd xebqnbeqvms
rcxebxkqdzr.emhercxzdevzkrqdxb,eyzldgdzxb,emdevygrxt

“.xbrxdig.enmdszs eZeogbebxgrxiezsen.emhhzkxegrercxelgsjeocxsegekgdi
ogbeldmq crezsermenxel.emsxemhercxekyxdjbteZebrgdrxieocxseZebgoercx
sgnx,ehmdezreogbercgremhesmsxemrcxdercgs—oxyy,evxdcgvbexaxserme.mqeZ
cgielxrrxdebg.esmenmdxercgsercgrezreogbegesgnxeoczkcezbegecmqbxcmyi
omdiegyyemaxdercxexgdrc—msxemhercxecz cxbr,esmlyxbr,enmbrexpgyrxiesgnxb
zseXs ygsiteZeogbemaxdocxynxiel.ercxecmsmqdegsiegrrxnvrxi,eocxsecx
xsrxdxi,ermebg.ebm,elqrecxevyqs xiegremskxezsrmelqbzsxbbeozrcercxegzd
mhegengseocmeozbcxbermecqdd.euqzkjy.ercdmq cegeizbg dxxglyxergbjt

“‘NdteCmyixd,’ebgziecx,e‘Zecgaxelxxsezshmdnxiercgre.mqegdxezsercxecglzr
mhegiagskzs enmsx.t’

“‘Rcxehzdneimxbebmeocxsercxebxkqdzr.ezbe mmit’eZegsboxdxit

“‘Zrezbeglbmyqrxy.exbbxsrzgyermenx,’ebgziecx,e‘rcgreZebcmqyiecgaxe£
50,000egremskxteZekmqyi,emhekmqdbx,elmddmoebmerdzhyzs egebqnerxserznxb
maxdehdmnen.ehdzxsib,elqreZenqkcevdxhxdermengjxezregengrrxdemhelqbzsxbb
gsiermekgdd.emqrercgrelqbzsxbben.bxyhteZsen.evmbzrzmse.mqekgsedxgizy.
qsixdbrgsiercgrezrezbeqsozbxermevygkxemsx’bebxyheqsixdemlyz grzmsbt’

“‘Hmdecmoeyms ,eng.eZegbj,eime.mqeogsrerczbebqn?’eZegbjxit

“‘SxpreNmsig.eZecgaxegeygd xebqneiqxermenx,egsieZebcgyyercxsenmbr
kxdrgzsy.edxvg.eocgre.mqegiagskx,eozrceocgrxaxdezsrxdxbre.mqerczsjezr
dz crermekcgd xteLqrezrezbeaxd.exbbxsrzgyermenxercgrercxenmsx.ebcmqyi
lxevgziegremskxt’

“‘Zebcmqyielxecgvv.ermegiagskxezreozrcmqrehqdrcxdevgdyx.ehdmnen.emos
vdzagrxevqdbx,’ebgzieZ,e‘oxdxezresmrercgrercxebrdgzseomqyielxedgrcxd
nmdxercgsezrekmqyielxgdteZh,emsercxemrcxdecgsi,eZegnermeimezrezsercx
sgnxemhercxehzdn,ercxsezsefqbrzkxermen.evgdrsxdeZenqbrezsbzbrercgr,
xaxsezse.mqdekgbx,exaxd.elqbzsxbbyzjxevdxkgqrzmsebcmqyielxergjxst’

“‘Zebcmqyienqkcevdxhxdermecgaxezrebm,’ebgziecx,edgzbzs eqvegebuqgdx,
lygkjenmdmkkmekgbxeoczkcecxecgieygzielxbzixeczbekcgzdte‘.mqecgax
imqlryxbbecxgdiemhercxeLxd.yeKmdmsxr?’

“‘Msxemhercxenmbrevdxkzmqbevqlyzkevmbbxbbzmsbemhercxexnvzdx,’ebgzieZt

“‘Vdxkzbxy.t’eCxemvxsxiercxekgbx,egsiercxdx,eznlxiixiezsebmhr,
hyxbc-kmymqdxieaxyaxr,eyg.ercxeng szhzkxsrevzxkxemhefxoxyyxd.eoczkcecx
cgiesgnxite‘Rcxdxegdxerczdr.-szsxexsmdnmqbelxd.yb,’ebgziecx,e‘gsiercx
vdzkxemhercxe myiekcgbzs ezbezskgykqyglyxteRcxeymoxbrexbrzngrxeomqyi
vqrercxeomdrcemhercxekmdmsxregreimqlyxercxebqneoczkceZecgaxegbjxiteZegn
vdxvgdxiermeyxgaxezreozrce.mqegben.ebxkqdzr.t’

“Zermmjercxevdxkzmqbekgbxezsrmen.ecgsibegsieymmjxiezsebmnxevxdvyxpzr.
hdmnezrermen.ezyyqbrdzmqbekyzxsrt

“‘.mqeimqlrezrbeagyqx?’ecxegbjxit

“‘SmregregyyteZemsy.eimqlr—’

“‘Rcxevdmvdzxr.emhen.eyxgazs ezrte.mqeng.ebxre.mqdenzsiegredxbreglmqr
rcgrteZebcmqyiesmreidxgnemheimzs ebmeoxdxezresmreglbmyqrxy.ekxdrgzs
rcgreZebcmqyielxeglyxezsehmqdeig.bermedxkygznezrteZrezbegevqdxengrrxd
mhehmdnteZbercxebxkqdzr.ebqhhzkzxsr?’

“‘Gnvyxt’

“‘.mqeqsixdbrgsi,eNdteCmyixd,ercgreZegne zazs e.mqegebrdms evdmmhemh
rcxekmshzixskxeoczkceZecgaxezse.mq,ehmqsixieqvmsegyyercgreZecgaxecxgdi
mhe.mqteZedxy.eqvmse.mqesmremsy.ermelxeizbkdxxregsiermedxhdgzsehdmnegyy
 mbbzveqvmsercxengrrxdelqr,eglmaxegyy,ermevdxbxdaxerczbekmdmsxreozrc
xaxd.evmbbzlyxevdxkgqrzmselxkgqbxeZesxxiesmrebg.ercgrege dxgrevqlyzk
bkgsigyeomqyielxekgqbxiezhegs.ecgdneoxdxermelxhgyyezrteGs.ezsfqd.ermezr
omqyielxegynmbregbebxdzmqbegbezrbekmnvyxrxeymbb,ehmdercxdxegdxesm
lxd.ybezsercxeomdyiermengrkcercxbx,egsiezreomqyielxeznvmbbzlyxerm
dxvygkxercxnteZeyxgaxezreozrce.mq,ecmoxaxd,eozrcexaxd.ekmshzixskx,egsi
ZebcgyyekgyyehmdezrezsevxdbmsemseNmsig.enmdszs t’

“Bxxzs ercgren.ekyzxsreogbegspzmqbermeyxgax,eZebgziesmenmdxelqr,
kgyyzs ehmden.ekgbczxd,eZemdixdxiecznermevg.emaxdehzhr.e£e1000esmrxbt
OcxseZeogbegymsxemskxenmdx,ecmoxaxd,eozrcercxevdxkzmqbekgbxey.zs eqvms
rcxerglyxezsehdmsremhenx,eZekmqyiesmrelqrerczsjeozrcebmnxenzb zazs bemh
rcxeznnxsbxedxbvmsbzlzyzr.eoczkcezrexsrgzyxieqvmsenxteRcxdxekmqyielxesm
imqlrercgr,egbezreogbegesgrzmsgyevmbbxbbzms,egecmddzlyxebkgsigyeomqyi
xsbqxezhegs.enzbhmdrqsxebcmqyiemkkqdermezrteZegydxgi.edx dxrrxiecgazs 
xaxdekmsbxsrxiermergjxekcgd xemhezrteCmoxaxd,ezreogbermmeygrxermegyrxd
rcxengrrxdesmo,ebmeZeymkjxiezreqvezsen.evdzagrxebghxegsierqdsxiemskx
nmdxermen.eomdjt

“Ocxsexaxszs ekgnxeZehxyrercgrezreomqyielxegseznvdqixskxermeyxgaxebm
vdxkzmqbegerczs ezsercxemhhzkxelxczsienxteLgsjxdb’ebghxbecgielxxs
hmdkxielxhmdxesmo,egsieoc.ebcmqyiesmrenzsxelx?eZhebm,ecmoerxddzlyx
omqyielxercxevmbzrzmsezseoczkceZebcmqyiehzsien.bxyh!eZeixrxdnzsxi,
rcxdxhmdx,ercgrehmdercxesxprehxoeig.beZeomqyiegyog.bekgdd.ercxekgbx
lgkjogdiegsiehmdogdieozrcenx,ebmercgrezrenz cresxaxdelxedxgyy.emqremh
n.edxgkcteOzrcerczbezsrxsrzms,eZekgyyxiegekglegsieidmaxemqrermen.ecmqbx
greBrdxgrcgn,ekgdd.zs ercxefxoxyeozrcenxteZeiziesmreldxgrcxehdxxy.
qsrzyeZecgiergjxsezreqvbrgzdbegsieymkjxiezrezsercxelqdxgqemhen.
idxbbzs -dmmnt

“Gsiesmoegeomdiegbermen.ecmqbxcmyi,eNdteCmynxb,ehmdeZeozbce.mqerm
rcmdmq cy.eqsixdbrgsiercxebzrqgrzmsteN.e dmmnegsien.evg xebyxxvemqremh
rcxecmqbx,egsieng.elxebxregbzixegyrm xrcxdteZecgaxercdxxengzi-bxdagsrb
ocmecgaxelxxseozrcenxegesqnlxdemhe.xgdbegsieocmbxeglbmyqrxedxyzglzyzr.
zbeuqzrxeglmaxebqbvzkzmsteGsmrcxd,eYqk.eVgdd,ercxebxkmsieogzrzs -ngzi,
cgbemsy.elxxsezsen.ebxdazkxegehxoenmsrcbteBcxekgnxeozrcegsexpkxyyxsr
kcgdgkrxd,ecmoxaxd,egsiecgbegyog.be zaxsenxebgrzbhgkrzmsteBcxezbegeaxd.
vdxrr.e zdyegsiecgbegrrdgkrxieginzdxdbeocmecgaxemkkgbzmsgyy.ecqs eglmqr
rcxevygkxteRcgrezbercxemsy.eidgolgkjeoczkceoxecgaxehmqsiermecxd,elqreox
lxyzxaxecxdermelxegercmdmq cy.e mmie zdyezsexaxd.eog.t

“BmenqkcehmdercxebxdagsrbteN.ehgnzy.ezrbxyhezbebmebngyyercgrezreozyy
smrergjxenxeyms ermeixbkdzlxezrteZegnegeozimoxdegsiecgaxegsemsy.ebms,
GdrcqdteCxecgbelxxsegeizbgvvmzsrnxsrermenx,eNdteCmynxb—ge dzxamqb
izbgvvmzsrnxsrteZecgaxesmeimqlrercgreZegnen.bxyhermelygnxteVxmvyxerxyy
nxercgreZecgaxebvmzyxiecznteAxd.eyzjxy.eZecgaxteOcxsen.eixgdeozhxeizxi
ZehxyrercgrecxeogbegyyeZecgiermeymaxteZekmqyiesmrelxgdermebxxercxebnzyx
hgixexaxsehmdegenmnxsrehdmneczbehgkxteZecgaxesxaxdeixszxiecznegeozbct
VxdcgvbezreomqyiecgaxelxxselxrrxdehmdelmrcemheqbecgieZelxxsebrxdsxd,
lqreZenxgsrezrehmdercxelxbrt

“Zreogbesgrqdgyy.en.ezsrxsrzmsercgrecxebcmqyiebqkkxxienxezsen.
lqbzsxbb,elqrecxeogbesmremhegelqbzsxbberqdsteCxeogbeozyi,eog.ogdi,egsi,
rmebvxgjercxerdqrc,eZekmqyiesmrerdqbrecznezsercxecgsiyzs emheygd xebqnb
mhenmsx.teOcxsecxeogbe.mqs ecxelxkgnxegenxnlxdemhegsegdzbrmkdgrzkekyql,
gsiercxdx,ecgazs ekcgdnzs engssxdb,ecxeogbebmmsercxezsrzngrxemheg
sqnlxdemhenxseozrceyms evqdbxbegsiexpvxsbzaxecglzrbteCxeyxgdsxiermevyg.
cxgazy.egrekgdibegsiermebuqgsixdenmsx.emsercxerqdh,eqsrzyecxecgieg gzs
gsieg gzsermekmnxermenxegsieznvymdxenxerme zaxecznegsegiagskxeqvmseczb
gyymogskx,ercgrecxenz crebxrryxeczbeixlrbemhecmsmqdteCxerdzxienmdxercgs
mskxermeldxgjegog.ehdmnercxeigs xdmqbekmnvgs.eoczkcecxeogbejxxvzs ,elqr
xgkcerznxercxezshyqxskxemheczbehdzxsi,eBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyy,eogbexsmq c
rmeidgoecznelgkjeg gzst

“Gsi,ezsixxi,eZekmqyiesmreomsixdercgrebqkcegengsegbeBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyy
bcmqyie gzsegsezshyqxskxemaxdeczn,ehmdecxecgbehdxuqxsry.eldmq crecznerm
n.ecmqbx,egsieZecgaxehmqsien.bxyhercgreZekmqyiecgdiy.edxbzbrercx
hgbkzsgrzmsemheczbengssxdteCxezbemyixdercgseGdrcqd,egengsemhercxeomdyi
rmeczbehzs xd-rzvb,emsxeocmecgielxxsexaxd.ocxdx,ebxxsexaxd.rczs ,eg
ldzyyzgsrergyjxd,egsiegengsemhe dxgrevxdbmsgyelxgqr.te.xreocxseZerczsj
mhecznezsekmyielymmi,ehgdegog.ehdmnercxe ygnmqdemheczbevdxbxskx,eZegn
kmsazskxiehdmneczbek.szkgyebvxxkcegsiercxeymmjeoczkceZecgaxekgq crezs
czbex.xbercgrecxezbemsxeocmebcmqyielxeixxvy.eizbrdqbrxiteBmeZerczsj,
gsiebm,ermm,erczsjben.eyzrryxeNgd.,eocmecgbegeomngs’beuqzkjezsbz cr
zsrmekcgdgkrxdt

“Gsiesmoercxdxezbemsy.ebcxermelxeixbkdzlxiteBcxezben.eszxkx;elqreocxs
n.eldmrcxdeizxiehzaxe.xgdbeg megsieyxhrecxdegymsxezsercxeomdyieZ
gimvrxiecxd,egsiecgaxeymmjxieqvmsecxdexaxdebzskxegben.eigq crxdteBcxezb
gebqslxgnezsen.ecmqbx—boxxr,eymazs ,elxgqrzhqy,egeomsixdhqyengsg xdegsi
cmqbxjxxvxd,e.xregberxsixdegsieuqzxregsie xsryxegbegeomngsekmqyielxt
Bcxezben.edz crecgsiteZeimesmrejsmoeocgreZekmqyieimeozrcmqrecxdteZs
msy.emsxengrrxdecgbebcxexaxde msxeg gzsbren.eozbcxbteRozkxen.elm.ecgb
gbjxiecxdermengdd.eczn,ehmdecxeymaxbecxdeixamrxiy.,elqrexgkcerznxebcx
cgbedxhqbxiecznteZerczsjercgrezhegs.msxekmqyiecgaxeidgosecznezsrmercx
dz crevgrcezreomqyiecgaxelxxsebcx,egsiercgreczbengddzg xenz crecgax
kcgs xieczbeocmyxeyzhx;elqresmo,egygb!ezrezbermmeygrx—hmdxaxdermmeygrx!

“Smo,eNdteCmynxb,e.mqejsmoercxevxmvyxeocmeyzaxeqsixden.edmmh,egsieZ
bcgyyekmsrzsqxeozrcen.enzbxdglyxebrmd.t

“Ocxseoxeoxdxergjzs ekmhhxxezsercxeidgozs -dmmnercgresz creghrxd
izssxd,eZermyieGdrcqdegsieNgd.en.expvxdzxskx,egsiemhercxevdxkzmqb
rdxgbqdxeoczkceoxecgieqsixdemqdedmmh,ebqvvdxbbzs emsy.ercxesgnxemhen.
kyzxsrteYqk.eVgdd,eocmecgieldmq crezsercxekmhhxx,ecgi,eZegnebqdx,eyxhr
rcxedmmn;elqreZekgssmreboxgdercgrercxeimmdeogbekymbxiteNgd.egsieGdrcqd
oxdxenqkcezsrxdxbrxiegsieozbcxiermebxxercxehgnmqbekmdmsxr,elqreZ
rcmq crezrelxrrxdesmrermeizbrqdlezrt

“‘Ocxdxecgaxe.mqevqrezr?’egbjxieGdrcqdt

“‘Zsen.emoselqdxgqt’

“‘Oxyy,eZecmvxerme mmisxbbercxecmqbxeoms’relxelqd yxieiqdzs ercx
sz crt’ebgziecxt

“‘Zrezbeymkjxieqv,’eZegsboxdxit

“‘Mc,egs.emyiejx.eozyyehzrercgrelqdxgqteOcxseZeogbege.mqs brxdeZecgax
mvxsxiezren.bxyheozrcercxejx.emhercxelmp-dmmnekqvlmgdit’

“Cxemhrxsecgiegeozyieog.emhergyjzs ,ebmercgreZercmq creyzrryxemheocgr
cxebgziteCxehmyymoxienxermen.edmmn,ecmoxaxd,ercgresz creozrcegeaxd.
 dgaxehgkxt

“‘Ymmjecxdx,eigi,’ebgziecxeozrceczbex.xbekgbreimos,e‘kgse.mqeyxrenx
cgaxe£e200?’

“‘Sm,eZekgssmr!’eZegsboxdxiebcgdvy.te‘Zecgaxelxxsehgdermme xsxdmqbeozrc
.mqezsenmsx.engrrxdbt’

“‘.mqecgaxelxxseaxd.ejzsi,’ebgziecx,e‘lqreZenqbrecgaxerczbenmsx.,emd
xybxeZekgsesxaxdebcmoen.ehgkxezsbzixercxekyqleg gzst’

“‘Gsiegeaxd.e mmierczs ,ermm!’eZekdzxit

“‘.xb,elqre.mqeomqyiesmrecgaxenxeyxgaxezregeizbcmsmqdxiengs,’ebgziecxt
‘Zekmqyiesmrelxgdercxeizb dgkxteZenqbredgzbxercxenmsx.ezsebmnxeog.,egsi
zhe.mqeozyyesmreyxrenxecgaxezr,ercxseZenqbrerd.emrcxdenxgsbt’

“Zeogbeaxd.egs d.,ehmderczbeogbercxerczdieixngsieiqdzs ercxenmsrcte‘.mq
bcgyyesmrecgaxegehgdrczs ehdmnenx,’eZekdzxi,emseoczkcecxelmoxiegsieyxhr
rcxedmmneozrcmqregsmrcxdeomdit

“Ocxsecxeogbe msxeZeqsymkjxien.elqdxgq,engixebqdxercgren.erdxgbqdxeogb
bghx,egsieymkjxiezreg gzsteRcxseZebrgdrxierme medmqsiercxecmqbxermebxx
rcgregyyeogbebxkqdx—geiqr.eoczkceZeqbqgyy.eyxgaxermeNgd.elqreoczkceZ
rcmq crezreoxyyermevxdhmdnen.bxyhercgresz crteGbeZekgnxeimosercxebrgzdb
ZebgoeNgd.ecxdbxyhegrercxebzixeozsimoemhercxecgyy,eoczkcebcxekymbxiegsi
hgbrxsxiegbeZegvvdmgkcxit

“‘Rxyyenx,eigi,’ebgziebcx,eymmjzs ,eZercmq cr,egeyzrryxeizbrqdlxi,e‘izi
.mqe zaxeYqk.,ercxengzi,eyxgaxerme memqrerm-sz cr?’

“‘Kxdrgzsy.esmrt’

“‘Bcxekgnxezsefqbresmoel.ercxelgkjeimmdteZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrebcxecgb
msy.elxxsermercxebzixe grxermebxxebmnxmsx,elqreZerczsjercgrezrezb
cgdiy.ebghxegsiebcmqyielxebrmvvxit’

“‘.mqenqbrebvxgjermecxdezsercxenmdszs ,emdeZeozyyezhe.mqevdxhxdezrteGdx
.mqebqdxercgrexaxd.rczs ezbehgbrxsxi?’

“‘Uqzrxebqdx,eigit’

“‘Rcxs,e mmi-sz crt’eZejzbbxiecxdegsieoxsreqvermen.elxidmmneg gzs,
ocxdxeZeogbebmmsegbyxxvt

“Zegnexsixgamqdzs ermerxyye.mqexaxd.rczs ,eNdteCmynxb,eoczkceng.ecgax
gs.elxgdzs eqvmsercxekgbx,elqreZelx ercgre.mqeozyyeuqxbrzmsenxeqvmsegs.
vmzsreoczkceZeimesmrengjxekyxgdt”

“Msercxekmsrdgd.,e.mqdebrgrxnxsrezbebzs qygdy.eyqkzit”

“Zekmnxermegevgdremhen.ebrmd.esmoezseoczkceZebcmqyieozbcermelx
vgdrzkqygdy.ebmteZegnesmregeaxd.ecxga.ebyxxvxd,egsiercxegspzxr.ezsen.
nzsierxsixi,esmeimqlr,ermengjxenxexaxseyxbbebmercgseqbqgyteGlmqreromezs
rcxenmdszs ,ercxs,eZeogbegogjxsxiel.ebmnxebmqsiezsercxecmqbxteZrecgi
kxgbxiexdxeZeogbeozixegogjx,elqrezrecgieyxhregseznvdxbbzmselxczsiezregb
rcmq cegeozsimoecgie xsry.ekymbxiebmnxocxdxteZeyg.eyzbrxszs eozrcegyy
n.exgdbteBqiixsy.,ermen.ecmddmd,ercxdxeogbegeizbrzskrebmqsiemh
hmmrbrxvbenmazs ebmhry.ezsercxesxpredmmnteZebyzvvxiemqremhelxi,egyy
vgyvzrgrzs eozrcehxgd,egsievxxvxiedmqsiercxekmdsxdemhen.eidxbbzs -dmmn
immdt

“‘Gdrcqd!’eZebkdxgnxi,e‘.mqeazyygzs!e.mqerczxh!eCmoeigdxe.mqermqkcercgr
kmdmsxr?’

“Rcxe gbeogbecgyheqv,egbeZecgieyxhrezr,egsien.eqscgvv.elm.,eidxbbxi
msy.ezseczbebczdregsierdmqbxdb,eogbebrgsizs elxbzixercxeyz cr,ecmyizs 
rcxekmdmsxrezseczbecgsibteCxegvvxgdxiermelxeodxskczs egrezr,emdelxsizs 
zreozrcegyyeczbebrdxs rcteGren.ekd.ecxeidmvvxiezrehdmneczbe dgbvegsi
rqdsxiegbevgyxegbeixgrcteZebsgrkcxiezreqvegsiexpgnzsxiezrteMsxemhercx
 myiekmdsxdb,eozrcercdxxemhercxelxd.ybezsezr,eogbenzbbzs t

“‘.mqelygkj qgdi!’eZebcmqrxi,elxbzixen.bxyheozrcedg xte‘.mqecgax
ixbrdm.xiezr!e.mqecgaxeizbcmsmqdxienxehmdxaxd!eOcxdxegdxercxefxoxyb
oczkce.mqecgaxebrmyxs?’

“‘Brmyxs!’ecxekdzxit

“‘.xb,erczxh!’eZedmgdxi,ebcgjzs ecznel.ercxebcmqyixdt

“‘Rcxdxegdxesmsxenzbbzs teRcxdxekgssmrelxegs.enzbbzs ,’ebgziecxt

“‘Rcxdxegdxercdxxenzbbzs teGsie.mqejsmoeocxdxercx.egdxteNqbreZekgyye.mq
geyzgdegbeoxyyegbegerczxh?eIzieZesmrebxxe.mqerd.zs ermerxgdemhhegsmrcxd
vzxkx?’

“‘.mqecgaxekgyyxienxesgnxbexsmq c,’ebgziecx,e‘Zeozyyesmrebrgsiezregs.
yms xdteZebcgyyesmrebg.egsmrcxdeomdieglmqrerczbelqbzsxbb,ebzskxe.mq
cgaxekcmbxsermezsbqyrenxteZeozyyeyxgaxe.mqdecmqbxezsercxenmdszs egsi
ngjxen.emoseog.ezsercxeomdyit’

“‘.mqebcgyyeyxgaxezrezsercxecgsibemhercxevmyzkx!’eZekdzxiecgyh-ngieozrc
 dzxhegsiedg xte‘Zebcgyyecgaxerczbengrrxdevdmlxiermercxelmrrmnt’

“‘.mqebcgyyeyxgdsesmrczs ehdmnenx,’ebgziecxeozrcegevgbbzmsebqkcegbeZ
bcmqyiesmrecgaxercmq creogbezseczbesgrqdxte‘Zhe.mqekcmmbxermekgyyercx
vmyzkx,eyxrercxevmyzkxehzsieocgrercx.ekgst’

“L.erczberznxercxeocmyxecmqbxeogbegbrzd,ehmdeZecgiedgzbxien.eamzkxezs
n.egs xdteNgd.eogbercxehzdbrermedqbcezsrmen.edmmn,egsi,egrercxebz cremh
rcxekmdmsxregsiemheGdrcqd’behgkx,ebcxedxgiercxeocmyxebrmd.egsi,eozrceg
bkdxgn,ehxyyeimosebxsbxyxbbemsercxe dmqsiteZebxsrercxecmqbxngziehmdercx
vmyzkxegsievqrercxezsaxbrz grzmsezsrmercxzdecgsibegremskxteOcxsercx
zsbvxkrmdegsiegekmsbrglyxexsrxdxiercxecmqbx,eGdrcqd,eocmecgiebrmmi
bqyyxsy.eozrceczbegdnbehmyixi,egbjxienxeocxrcxdezreogben.ezsrxsrzmserm
kcgd xeczneozrcercxhrteZegsboxdxiercgrezrecgiekxgbxiermelxegevdzagrx
ngrrxd,elqrecgielxkmnxegevqlyzkemsx,ebzskxercxedqzsxiekmdmsxreogb
sgrzmsgyevdmvxdr.teZeogbeixrxdnzsxiercgrercxeygoebcmqyiecgaxezrbeog.ezs
xaxd.rczs t

“‘Greyxgbr,’ebgziecx,e‘.mqeozyyesmrecgaxenxegddxbrxiegremskxteZreomqyi
lxerme.mqdegiagsrg xegbeoxyyegbenzsxezheZenz creyxgaxercxecmqbxehmd
hzaxenzsqrxbt’

“‘Rcgre.mqeng.e xregog.,emdevxdcgvbercgre.mqeng.ekmskxgyeocgre.mqecgax
brmyxs,’ebgzieZteGsiercxs,edxgyzbzs ercxeidxgihqyevmbzrzmsezseoczkceZ
ogbevygkxi,eZeznvymdxiecznermedxnxnlxdercgresmremsy.en.ecmsmqdelqrercgr
mhemsxeocmeogbehgde dxgrxdercgseZeogbegrebrgjx;egsiercgrecxercdxgrxsxi
rmedgzbxegebkgsigyeoczkceomqyiekmsaqybxercxesgrzmsteCxenz cregaxdrezr
gyyezhecxeomqyielqrerxyyenxeocgrecxecgieimsxeozrcercxercdxxenzbbzs 
brmsxbt

“‘.mqeng.egbeoxyyehgkxercxengrrxd,’ebgzieZ;e‘.mqecgaxelxxsekgq crezs
rcxegkr,egsiesmekmshxbbzmsekmqyiengjxe.mqde qzyrenmdxecxzsmqbteZhe.mq
lqrengjxebqkcedxvgdgrzmsegbezbezse.mqdevmoxd,el.erxyyzs eqbeocxdxercx
lxd.ybegdx,egyyebcgyyelxehmd zaxsegsiehmd mrrxst’

“‘Jxxve.mqdehmd zaxsxbbehmdercmbxeocmegbjehmdezr,’ecxegsboxdxi,erqdszs 
gog.ehdmnenxeozrcegebsxxdteZebgoercgrecxeogbermmecgdixsxiehmdegs.eomdib
mhenzsxermezshyqxskxecznteRcxdxeogbelqremsxeog.ehmdezrteZekgyyxiezsercx
zsbvxkrmdegsie gaxecznezsrmekqbrmi.teGebxgdkceogbengixegremskxesmremsy.
mheczbevxdbmselqremheczbedmmnegsiemhexaxd.evmdrzmsemhercxecmqbxeocxdx
cxekmqyievmbbzly.ecgaxekmskxgyxiercxe xnb;elqresmerdgkxemhercxnekmqyi
lxehmqsi,esmdeomqyiercxeodxrkcxielm.emvxseczbenmqrcehmdegyyemqd
vxdbqgbzmsbegsiemqdercdxgrbteRczbenmdszs ecxeogbedxnmaxiermegekxyy,egsi
Z,eghrxde mzs ercdmq cegyyercxevmyzkxehmdngyzrzxb,ecgaxecqddzxiedmqsi
rme.mqermeznvymdxe.mqermeqbxe.mqdebjzyyezseqsdgaxyyzs ercxengrrxdteRcx
vmyzkxecgaxemvxsy.ekmshxbbxiercgrercx.ekgsegrevdxbxsrengjxesmrczs emh
zrte.mqeng.e mermegs.expvxsbxeoczkce.mqerczsjesxkxbbgd.teZecgaxegydxgi.
mhhxdxiegedxogdiemhe£e1000teN.e mi,eocgrebcgyyeZeim!eZecgaxeymbren.
cmsmqd,en.e xnb,egsien.ebmsezsemsxesz crteMc,eocgrebcgyyeZeim!”

Cxevqregecgsiemsexzrcxdebzixemheczbecxgiegsiedmkjxiecznbxyhermegsiehdm,
idmszs ermecznbxyheyzjxegekczyieocmbxe dzxhecgbe mrelx.msieomdibt

BcxdymkjeCmynxbebgrebzyxsrehmdebmnxehxoenzsqrxb,eozrceczbeldmobejszrrxi
gsieczbex.xbehzpxieqvmsercxehzdxt

“Ime.mqedxkxzaxenqkcekmnvgs.?”ecxegbjxit

“Smsxebgaxen.evgdrsxdeozrceczbehgnzy.egsiegsemkkgbzmsgyehdzxsiemh
Gdrcqd’bteBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyyecgbelxxsebxaxdgyerznxbeygrxy.teSmemsx
xybx,eZerczsjt”

“Ime.mqe memqrenqkcezsebmkzxr.?”

“GdrcqdeimxbteNgd.egsieZebrg.egrecmnxteOxesxzrcxdemheqbekgdxehmdezrt”

“Rcgrezbeqsqbqgyezsege.mqs e zdyt”

“BcxezbemhegeuqzxresgrqdxteLxbzixb,ebcxezbesmrebmeaxd.e.mqs teBcxezb
hmqd-gsi-roxsr.t”

“Rczbengrrxd,ehdmneocgre.mqebg.,ebxxnbermecgaxelxxsegebcmkjermecxd
gybmt”

“Rxddzlyx!eBcxezbexaxsenmdxeghhxkrxiercgseZt”

“.mqecgaxesxzrcxdemhe.mqegs.eimqlregberme.mqdebms’be qzyr?”

“CmoekgseoxecgaxeocxseZebgoeczneozrcen.emosex.xbeozrcercxekmdmsxrezs
czbecgsibt”

“Zecgdiy.ekmsbzixdercgregekmskyqbzaxevdmmhteOgbercxedxngzsixdemhercx
kmdmsxregregyyezsfqdxi?”

“.xb,ezreogberozbrxit”

“Ime.mqesmrerczsj,ercxs,ercgrecxenz crecgaxelxxserd.zs ermebrdgz crxs
zr?”

“ mielyxbbe.mq!e.mqegdxeimzs eocgre.mqekgsehmdecznegsiehmdenxteLqrezr
zbermmecxga.egergbjteOcgreogbecxeimzs ercxdxegregyy?eZheczbevqdvmbx
oxdxezssmkxsr,eoc.eiziecxesmrebg.ebm?”

“Vdxkzbxy.teGsiezhezreoxdxe qzyr.,eoc.eiziecxesmrezsaxsregeyzx?eCzb
bzyxskxegvvxgdbermenxermekqrelmrceog.bteRcxdxegdxebxaxdgyebzs qygd
vmzsrbeglmqrercxekgbxteOcgreiziercxevmyzkxerczsjemhercxesmzbxeoczkc
gomjxe.mqehdmne.mqdebyxxv?”

“Rcx.ekmsbzixdxiercgrezrenz crelxekgqbxiel.eGdrcqd’bekymbzs eczb
lxidmmneimmdt”

“Geyzjxy.ebrmd.!eGbezhegengselxsremsehxyms.eomqyiebygneczbeimmdebmegb
rmeogjxegecmqbxcmyiteOcgreiziercx.ebg.,ercxs,emhercxeizbgvvxgdgskxemh
rcxbxe xnb?”

“Rcx.egdxebrzyyebmqsizs ercxevygsjzs egsievdmlzs ercxehqdszrqdxezsercx
cmvxemhehzsizs ercxnt”

“Cgaxercx.ercmq cremheymmjzs emqrbzixercxecmqbx?”

“.xb,ercx.ecgaxebcmosexprdgmdizsgd.exsxd .teRcxeocmyxe gdixsecgb
gydxgi.elxxsenzsqrxy.expgnzsxit”

“Smo,en.eixgdebzd,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“zbezresmremlazmqberme.mqesmoercgr
rczbengrrxdedxgyy.ebrdzjxbeaxd.enqkceixxvxdercgsexzrcxde.mqemdercx
vmyzkxeoxdxegrehzdbrezskyzsxiermerczsj?eZregvvxgdxierme.mqermelxeg
bznvyxekgbx;ermenxezrebxxnbexpkxxizs y.ekmnvyxpteKmsbzixdeocgrezb
zsamyaxiel.e.mqdercxmd.te.mqebqvvmbxercgre.mqdebmsekgnxeimosehdmneczb
lxi,eoxsr,egre dxgredzbj,erme.mqdeidxbbzs -dmmn,emvxsxie.mqdelqdxgq,
rmmjemqre.mqdekmdmsxr,eldmjxemhhel.engzsehmdkxegebngyyevmdrzmsemhezr,
oxsremhhermebmnxemrcxdevygkx,ekmskxgyxiercdxxe xnbemqremhercx
rczdr.-szsx,eozrcebqkcebjzyyercgresmlmi.ekgsehzsiercxn,egsiercxs
dxrqdsxieozrcercxemrcxderczdr.-bzpezsrmercxedmmnezseoczkcecxexpvmbxi
cznbxyhermercxe dxgrxbreigs xdemhelxzs eizbkmaxdxiteZegbje.mqesmo,ezb
bqkcegercxmd.erxsglyx?”

“Lqreocgremrcxdezbercxdx?”ekdzxiercxelgsjxdeozrcege xbrqdxemheixbvgzdt
“Zheczbenmrzaxbeoxdxezssmkxsr,eoc.eimxbecxesmrexpvygzsercxn?”

“Zrezbemqdergbjermehzsiercgremqr,”edxvyzxieCmynxb;e“bmesmo,ezhe.mq
vyxgbx,eNdteCmyixd,eoxeozyyebxremhhehmdeBrdxgrcgnerm xrcxd,egsieixamrx
gsecmqderme ygskzs egeyzrryxenmdxekymbxy.ezsrmeixrgzybt”

N.ehdzxsiezsbzbrxieqvmsen.egkkmnvgs.zs ercxnezsercxzdexpvxizrzms,eoczkc
Zeogbexg xdexsmq cermeim,ehmden.ekqdzmbzr.egsieb.nvgrc.eoxdxeixxvy.
brzddxiel.ercxebrmd.ermeoczkceoxecgieyzbrxsxiteZekmshxbbercgrercxe qzyr
mhercxelgsjxd’bebmsegvvxgdxiermenxermelxegbemlazmqbegbezreiziermeczb
qscgvv.ehgrcxd,elqrebrzyyeZecgiebqkcehgzrcezseCmynxb’efqi nxsrercgreZ
hxyrercgrercxdxenqbrelxebmnxe dmqsibehmdecmvxegbeyms egbecxeogb
izbbgrzbhzxieozrcercxegkkxvrxiexpvygsgrzmsteCxecgdiy.ebvmjxegeomdiercx
ocmyxeog.emqrermercxebmqrcxdsebqlqdl,elqrebgreozrceczbekczseqvmseczb
ldxgbregsieczbecgreidgosemaxdeczbex.xb,ebqsjezsercxeixxvxbrercmq crt
Mqdekyzxsregvvxgdxiermecgaxergjxsehdxbcecxgdregrercxeyzrryxe yznvbxemh
cmvxeoczkcecgielxxsevdxbxsrxiermeczn,egsiecxexaxseldmjxezsrmeg
ixbqyrmd.ekcgreozrcenxemaxdeczbelqbzsxbbeghhgzdbteGebcmdredgzyog.
fmqdsx.egsiegebcmdrxdeogyjeldmq creqbermeHgzdlgsj,ercxenmixbredxbzixskx
mhercxe dxgrehzsgskzxdt

Hgzdlgsjeogbege mmi-bzwxiebuqgdxecmqbxemheoczrxebrmsx,ebrgsizs elgkjeg
yzrryxehdmnercxedmgiteGeimqlyxekgddzg x-boxxv,eozrcegebsmo-kygieygos,
brdxrkcxieimosezsehdmsrermeromeygd xezdmse grxbeoczkcekymbxiercx
xsrdgskxteMsercxedz crebzixeogbegebngyyeommixserczkjxr,eoczkceyxiezsrm
gesgddmoevgrcelxroxxseromesxgrecxi xbebrdxrkczs ehdmnercxedmgiermercx
jzrkcxseimmd,egsiehmdnzs ercxerdgixbnxs’bexsrdgskxteMsercxeyxhredgseg
ygsxeoczkceyxiermercxebrglyxb,egsieogbesmrezrbxyheozrczsercxe dmqsibegr
gyy,elxzs egevqlyzk,ercmq ceyzrryxeqbxi,ercmdmq chgdxteCmynxbeyxhreqb
brgsizs egrercxeimmdegsieogyjxiebymoy.egyyedmqsiercxecmqbx,egkdmbbercx
hdmsr,eimosercxerdgixbnxs’bevgrc,egsiebmedmqsiel.ercxe gdixselxczsi
zsrmercxebrglyxeygsxteBmeyms eogbecxercgreNdteCmyixdegsieZeoxsrezsrm
rcxeizszs -dmmnegsieogzrxiel.ercxehzdxeqsrzyecxebcmqyiedxrqdsteOxeoxdx
bzrrzs ercxdxezsebzyxskxeocxsercxeimmdemvxsxiegsiege.mqs eygi.ekgnxezst
Bcxeogbedgrcxdeglmaxercxenziiyxecxz cr,ebyzn,eozrceigdjecgzdegsiex.xb,
oczkcebxxnxiercxeigdjxdeg gzsbrercxeglbmyqrxevgyymdemhecxdebjzsteZeim
smrerczsjercgreZecgaxexaxdebxxsebqkceixgiy.evgyxsxbbezsegeomngs’behgkxt
Cxdeyzvb,ermm,eoxdxelymmiyxbb,elqrecxdex.xbeoxdxehyqbcxieozrcekd.zs t
Gbebcxeboxvrebzyxsry.ezsrmercxedmmnebcxeznvdxbbxienxeozrcege dxgrxd
bxsbxemhe dzxhercgsercxelgsjxdecgieimsxezsercxenmdszs ,egsiezreogbercx
nmdxebrdzjzs ezsecxdegbebcxeogbexazixsry.egeomngsemhebrdms ekcgdgkrxd,
ozrceznnxsbxekgvgkzr.ehmdebxyh-dxbrdgzsrteIzbdx gdizs en.evdxbxskx,ebcx
oxsrebrdgz crermecxdeqskyxegsievgbbxiecxdecgsiemaxdeczbecxgieozrceg
boxxreomngsy.ekgdxbbt

“.mqecgaxe zaxsemdixdbercgreGdrcqdebcmqyielxeyzlxdgrxi,ecgaxe.mqesmr,
igi?”ebcxegbjxit

“Sm,esm,en.e zdy,ercxengrrxdenqbrelxevdmlxiermercxelmrrmnt”

“LqreZegnebmebqdxercgrecxezbezssmkxsrte.mqejsmoeocgreomngs’bezsbrzskrb
gdxteZejsmoercgrecxecgbeimsxesmecgdnegsiercgre.mqeozyyelxebmdd.ehmd
cgazs egkrxiebmecgdbcy.t”

“Oc.ezbecxebzyxsr,ercxs,ezhecxezbezssmkxsr?”

“Ocmejsmob?eVxdcgvbelxkgqbxecxeogbebmegs d.ercgre.mqebcmqyiebqbvxkr
cznt”

“CmoekmqyieZecxyvebqbvxkrzs eczn,eocxseZegkrqgyy.ebgoeczneozrcercx
kmdmsxrezseczbecgsi?”

“Mc,elqrecxecgiemsy.evzkjxiezreqvermeymmjegrezrteMc,eim,eimergjxen.
omdiehmdezrercgrecxezbezssmkxsrteYxrercxengrrxdeidmvegsiebg.esmenmdxt
ZrezbebmeidxgihqyermerczsjemhemqdeixgdeGdrcqdezsevdzbms!”

“Zebcgyyesxaxdeyxrezreidmveqsrzyercxe xnbegdxehmqsi—sxaxd,eNgd.!e.mqd
ghhxkrzmsehmdeGdrcqdelyzsibe.mqegbermercxegohqyekmsbxuqxskxbermenxteHgd
hdmnecqbczs ercxerczs eqv,eZecgaxeldmq crege xsryxngseimosehdmneYmsims
rmezsuqzdxenmdxeixxvy.ezsrmezrt”

“Rczbe xsryxngs?”ebcxegbjxi,ehgkzs edmqsiermenxt

“Sm,eczbehdzxsiteCxeozbcxieqbermeyxgaxecznegymsxteCxezbedmqsiezsercx
brglyxeygsxesmot”

“Rcxebrglyxeygsx?”eBcxedgzbxiecxdeigdjex.xldmobte“Ocgrekgsecxecmvxerm
hzsiercxdx?eGc!erczb,eZebqvvmbx,ezbecxteZerdqbr,ebzd,ercgre.mqeozyy
bqkkxxiezsevdmazs ,eocgreZehxxyebqdxezbercxerdqrc,ercgren.ekmqbzs
Gdrcqdezbezssmkxsremherczbekdznxt”

“Zehqyy.ebcgdxe.mqdemvzszms,egsieZerdqbr,eozrce.mq,ercgreoxeng.evdmax
zr,”edxrqdsxieCmynxb,e mzs elgkjermercxengrermejsmkjercxebsmoehdmneczb
bcmxbte“ZelxyzxaxeZecgaxercxecmsmqdemhegiidxbbzs eNzbbeNgd.eCmyixdt
Nz creZegbje.mqegeuqxbrzmsemderom?”

“Vdg.eim,ebzd,ezhezreng.ecxyvermekyxgderczbecmddzlyxeghhgzdeqvt”

“.mqecxgdiesmrczs e.mqdbxyheygbresz cr?”

“Smrczs ,eqsrzyen.eqskyxecxdxelx gsermebvxgjeymqiy.teZecxgdiercgr,egsi
Zekgnxeimost”

“.mqebcqreqvercxeozsimobegsieimmdbercxesz crelxhmdxteIzie.mqehgbrxsegyy
rcxeozsimob?”

“.xbt”

“Oxdxercx.egyyehgbrxsxierczbenmdszs ?”

“.xbt”

“.mqecgaxegengzieocmecgbegeboxxrcxgdr?eZerczsjercgre.mqedxngdjxierm
.mqdeqskyxeygbresz crercgrebcxecgielxxsemqrermebxxeczn?”

“.xb,egsiebcxeogbercxe zdyeocmeogzrxiezsercxeidgozs -dmmn,egsieocmeng.
cgaxecxgdieqskyx’bedxngdjbeglmqrercxekmdmsxrt”

“Zebxxte.mqezshxdercgrebcxeng.ecgaxe msxemqrermerxyyecxdeboxxrcxgdr,
gsiercgrercxeromeng.ecgaxevygssxiercxedmllxd.t”

“Lqreocgrezbercxe mmiemhegyyercxbxeag qxercxmdzxb,”ekdzxiercxelgsjxd
znvgrzxsry.,e“ocxseZecgaxermyie.mqercgreZebgoeGdrcqdeozrcercxekmdmsxr
zseczbecgsib?”

“Ogzregeyzrryx,eNdteCmyixdteOxenqbrekmnxelgkjermercgrteGlmqrerczbe zdy,
NzbbeCmyixdte.mqebgoecxdedxrqdsel.ercxejzrkcxseimmd,eZevdxbqnx?”

“.xb;eocxseZeoxsrermebxxezhercxeimmdeogbehgbrxsxiehmdercxesz creZenxr
cxdebyzvvzs ezsteZebgoercxengs,ermm,ezsercxe ymmnt”

“Ime.mqejsmoeczn?”

“Mc,e.xb!ecxezbercxe dxxs dmkxdeocmeldzs bemqdeax xrglyxbedmqsiteCzb
sgnxezbeHdgskzbeVdmbvxdt”

“Cxebrmmi,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“rmercxeyxhremhercxeimmd—rcgrezbermebg.,
hgdrcxdeqvercxevgrcercgsezbesxkxbbgd.ermedxgkcercxeimmd?”

“.xb,ecxeizit”

“Gsiecxezbegengseozrcegeommixseyx ?”

Bmnxrczs eyzjxehxgdebvdgs eqvezsercxe.mqs eygi.’bexpvdxbbzaxelygkj
x.xbte“Oc.,e.mqegdxeyzjxegeng zkzgs,”ebgziebcxte“Cmoeime.mqejsmoercgr?”
Bcxebnzyxi,elqrercxdxeogbesmegsboxdzs ebnzyxezseCmynxb’erczs,exg xd
hgkxt

“Zebcmqyielxeaxd.e ygiesmoerme meqvbrgzdb,”ebgziecxte“Zebcgyyevdmlgly.
ozbcerme memaxdercxemqrbzixemhercxecmqbxeg gzsteVxdcgvbeZecgielxrrxd
rgjxegeymmjegrercxeymoxdeozsimobelxhmdxeZe meqvt”

Cxeogyjxiebozhry.edmqsiehdmnemsxermercxemrcxd,evgqbzs emsy.egrercx
ygd xemsxeoczkceymmjxiehdmnercxecgyyemsrmercxebrglyxeygsxteRczbecx
mvxsxiegsiengixegeaxd.ekgdxhqyexpgnzsgrzmsemhercxebzyyeozrceczb
vmoxdhqyeng szh.zs eyxsbte“Smoeoxebcgyye meqvbrgzdb,”ebgziecxegreygbrt

Rcxelgsjxd’beidxbbzs -dmmneogbegevygzsy.ehqdszbcxieyzrryxekcgnlxd,eozrc
ge dx.ekgdvxr,egeygd xelqdxgq,egsiegeyms enzddmdteCmynxbeoxsrermercx
lqdxgqehzdbregsieymmjxiecgdiegrercxeymkjt

“Oczkcejx.eogbeqbxiermemvxsezr?”ecxegbjxit

“Rcgreoczkcen.ebmsecznbxyhezsizkgrxi—rcgremhercxekqvlmgdiemhercx
yqnlxd-dmmnt”

“Cgaxe.mqezrecxdx?”

“Rcgrezbezremsercxeidxbbzs -rglyxt”

BcxdymkjeCmynxbermmjezreqvegsiemvxsxiercxelqdxgqt

“Zrezbegesmzbxyxbbeymkj,”ebgziecxte“Zrezbesmeomsixdercgrezreiziesmr
ogjxe.mqteRczbekgbx,eZevdxbqnx,ekmsrgzsbercxekmdmsxrteOxenqbrecgaxeg
ymmjegrezrt”eCxemvxsxiercxekgbx,egsiergjzs emqrercxeizgixnecxeygziezr
qvmsercxerglyxteZreogbegeng szhzkxsrebvxkznxsemhercxefxoxyyxd’begdr,
gsiercxerczdr.-bzpebrmsxbeoxdxercxehzsxbrercgreZecgaxexaxdebxxsteGremsx
bzixemhercxekmdmsxreogbegekdgkjxiexi x,eocxdxegekmdsxdecmyizs ercdxx
 xnbecgielxxsermdsegog.t

“Smo,eNdteCmyixd,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“cxdxezbercxekmdsxdeoczkcekmddxbvmsib
rmercgreoczkcecgbelxxsebmeqshmdrqsgrxy.eymbrteNz creZelx ercgre.mqeozyy
ldxgjezremhht”

Rcxelgsjxdedxkmzyxiezsecmddmdte“Zebcmqyiesmreidxgnemherd.zs ,”ebgziecxt

“RcxseZeozyyt”eCmynxbebqiixsy.elxsreczbebrdxs rceqvmsezr,elqreozrcmqr
dxbqyrte“Zehxxyezre zaxegeyzrryx,”ebgziecx;e“lqr,ercmq ceZegn
xpkxvrzmsgyy.ebrdms ezsercxehzs xdb,ezreomqyiergjxenxegyyen.erznxerm
ldxgjezrteGsemdizsgd.engsekmqyiesmreimezrteSmo,eocgreime.mqerczsjeomqyi
cgvvxsezheZeizieldxgjezr,eNdteCmyixd?eRcxdxeomqyielxegesmzbxeyzjxeg
vzbrmyebcmrteIme.mqerxyyenxercgregyyerczbecgvvxsxieozrczsegehxoe.gdib
mhe.mqdelxiegsiercgre.mqecxgdiesmrczs emhezr?”

“ZeimesmrejsmoeocgrermerczsjteZrezbegyyeigdjermenxt”

“Lqrevxdcgvbezreng.e dmoeyz crxdegbeoxe mteOcgreime.mqerczsj,eNzbb
Cmyixd?”

“ZekmshxbbercgreZebrzyyebcgdxen.eqskyx’bevxdvyxpzr.t”

“.mqdebmsecgiesmebcmxbemdebyzvvxdbemseocxse.mqebgoeczn?”

“Cxecgiesmrczs emsebgaxemsy.eczberdmqbxdbegsiebczdrt”

“Rcgsje.mqteOxecgaxekxdrgzsy.elxxsehgamqdxieozrcexprdgmdizsgd.eyqkj
iqdzs erczbezsuqzd.,egsiezreozyyelxexsrzdxy.emqdemosehgqyrezheoxeimesmr
bqkkxxiezsekyxgdzs ercxengrrxdeqvteOzrce.mqdevxdnzbbzms,eNdteCmyixd,eZ
bcgyyesmoekmsrzsqxen.ezsaxbrz grzmsbemqrbzixt”

Cxeoxsregymsx,egreczbemosedxuqxbr,ehmdecxexpvygzsxiercgregs.
qssxkxbbgd.ehmmrngdjbenz crengjxeczbergbjenmdxeizhhzkqyrteHmdegsecmqd
mdenmdxecxeogbegreomdj,edxrqdszs egreygbreozrceczbehxxrecxga.eozrcebsmo
gsieczbehxgrqdxbegbezsbkdqrglyxegbexaxdt

“ZerczsjercgreZecgaxebxxsesmoegyyercgrercxdxezbermebxx,eNdteCmyixd,”
bgziecx;e“Zekgsebxdaxe.mqelxbrel.edxrqdszs ermen.edmmnbt”

“Lqrercxe xnb,eNdteCmynxbteOcxdxegdxercx.?”

“Zekgssmrerxyyt”

Rcxelgsjxdeodqs eczbecgsibte“Zebcgyyesxaxdebxxercxneg gzs!”ecxekdzxit
“Gsien.ebms?e.mqe zaxenxecmvxb?”

“N.emvzszmsezbezsesmeog.egyrxdxit”

“Rcxs,ehmde mi’bebgjx,eocgreogberczbeigdjelqbzsxbbeoczkceogbegkrxiezs
n.ecmqbxeygbresz cr?”

“Zhe.mqekgsekgyyeqvmsenxegren.eLgjxdeBrdxxredmmnberm-nmddmoenmdszs 
lxroxxseszsxegsierxseZebcgyyelxecgvv.ermeimeocgreZekgsermengjxezr
kyxgdxdteZeqsixdbrgsiercgre.mqe zaxenxe_kgdrxelygskcx_ermegkrehmde.mq,
vdmazixiemsy.ercgreZe xrelgkjercxe xnb,egsiercgre.mqevygkxesmeyznzrems
rcxebqneZeng.eidgot”

“Zeomqyie zaxen.ehmdrqsxermecgaxercxnelgkjt”

“Axd.e mmiteZebcgyyeymmjezsrmercxengrrxdelxroxxserczbegsiercxst
 mmi-l.x;ezrezbefqbrevmbbzlyxercgreZeng.ecgaxermekmnxemaxdecxdxeg gzs
lxhmdxexaxszs t”

Zreogbemlazmqbermenxercgren.ekmnvgszms’benzsieogbesmoengixeqveglmqrercx
kgbx,egyrcmq ceocgreczbekmskyqbzmsbeoxdxeogbenmdxercgseZekmqyiexaxs
izny.ezng zsxteBxaxdgyerznxbeiqdzs emqdecmnxogdiefmqdsx.eZexsixgamqdxi
rmebmqsieczneqvmsercxevmzsr,elqrecxegyog.be yzixiegog.ermebmnxemrcxd
rmvzk,eqsrzyegreygbreZe gaxezremaxdezseixbvgzdteZreogbesmre.xrercdxx
ocxseoxehmqsiemqdbxyaxbezsemqdedmmnbemskxenmdxteCxecqddzxiermeczb
kcgnlxdegsieogbeimoseg gzsezsegehxoenzsqrxbeidxbbxiegbegekmnnmseymghxdt
Ozrceczbekmyygderqdsxieqv,eczbebczs.,ebxxi.ekmgr,eczbedxiekdgagr,egsi
czbeomdselmmrb,ecxeogbegevxdhxkrebgnvyxemhercxekygbbt

“Zerczsjercgrerczbebcmqyieim,”ebgziecx,e ygskzs ezsrmercxe ygbbeglmax
rcxehzdxvygkxte“Zemsy.eozbcercgre.mqekmqyiekmnxeozrcenx,eOgrbms,elqreZ
hxgdercgrezreoms’reimteZeng.elxemsercxerdgzyezserczbengrrxd,emdeZeng.
lxehmyymozs egeozyy-m’-rcx-ozbv,elqreZebcgyyebmmsejsmoeoczkcezrezbteZ
cmvxercgreZeng.elxelgkjezsegehxoecmqdbt”eCxekqregebyzkxemhelxxhehdmn
rcxefmzsreqvmsercxebzixlmgdi,ebgsiozkcxiezrelxroxxseromedmqsibemh
ldxgi,egsiercdqbrzs erczbedqixenxgyezsrmeczbevmkjxrecxebrgdrxiemhheqvms
czbexpvxizrzmst

Zecgiefqbrehzszbcxien.erxgeocxsecxedxrqdsxi,exazixsry.ezsexpkxyyxsr
bvzdzrb,ebozs zs egsemyiexygbrzk-bzixielmmrezseczbecgsiteCxekcqkjxiezr
imosezsrmegekmdsxdegsiecxyvxiecznbxyhermegekqvemherxgt

“Zemsy.eymmjxiezsegbeZevgbbxi,”ebgziecxte“Zegne mzs edz cremst”

“Ocxdxerm?”

“Mc,ermercxemrcxdebzixemhercxeOxbreXsiteZreng.elxebmnxerznxelxhmdxeZ
 xrelgkjteIms’reogzreqvehmdenxezsekgbxeZebcmqyielxeygrxt”

“Cmoegdxe.mqe xrrzs ems?”

“Mc,ebmebmteSmrczs ermekmnvygzsemhteZecgaxelxxsemqrermeBrdxgrcgnebzskx
Zebgoe.mqeygbr,elqreZeiziesmrekgyyegrercxecmqbxteZrezbegeaxd.eboxxr
yzrryxevdmlyxn,egsieZeomqyiesmrecgaxenzbbxiezrehmdege mmieixgyt
Cmoxaxd,eZenqbresmrebzre mbbzvzs ecxdx,elqrenqbre xrercxbxeizbdxvqrglyx
kymrcxbemhhegsiedxrqdsermen.ecz cy.edxbvxkrglyxebxyht”

Zekmqyiebxxel.eczbengssxdercgrecxecgiebrdms xdedxgbmsbehmdebgrzbhgkrzms
rcgseczbeomdibegymsxeomqyieznvy.teCzbex.xberozsjyxi,egsiercxdxeogbexaxs
germqkcemhekmymqdeqvmseczbebgyymoekcxxjbteCxecgbrxsxieqvbrgzdb,egsieg
hxoenzsqrxbeygrxdeZecxgdiercxebygnemhercxecgyyeimmd,eoczkcermyienxercgr
cxeogbemhhemskxenmdxeqvmseczbekms xszgyecqsrt

Zeogzrxieqsrzyenzisz cr,elqrercxdxeogbesmebz semheczbedxrqds,ebmeZ
dxrzdxiermen.edmmnteZreogbesmeqskmnnmserczs ehmdecznermelxegog.ehmd
ig.begsiesz crbemsexsieocxsecxeogbecmreqvmsegebkxsr,ebmercgreczb
ygrxsxbbekgqbxienxesmebqdvdzbxteZeimesmrejsmoegreocgrecmqdecxekgnxezs,
lqreocxseZekgnxeimosermeldxgjhgbrezsercxenmdszs ercxdxecxeogbeozrceg
kqvemhekmhhxxezsemsxecgsiegsiercxevgvxdezsercxemrcxd,egbehdxbcegsierdzn
gbevmbbzlyxt

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxen.elx zsszs eozrcmqre.mq,eOgrbms,”ebgziecx,e“lqre.mq
dxnxnlxdercgremqdekyzxsrecgbedgrcxdegsexgdy.egvvmzsrnxsrerczbenmdszs t”

“Oc.,ezrezbeghrxdeszsxesmo,”eZegsboxdxite“Zebcmqyiesmrelxebqdvdzbxiezh
rcgreoxdxecxteZercmq creZecxgdiegedzs t”

Zreogb,ezsixxi,emqdehdzxsiercxehzsgskzxdteZeogbebcmkjxiel.ercxekcgs x
oczkcecgiekmnxemaxdeczn,ehmdeczbehgkxeoczkceogbesgrqdgyy.emhegeldmgi
gsiengbbzaxenmqyi,eogbesmoevzskcxiegsiehgyyxsezs,eoczyxeczbecgzdebxxnxi
rmenxegreyxgbregebcgixeoczrxdteCxexsrxdxieozrcegeoxgdzsxbbegsieyxrcgd .
oczkceogbexaxsenmdxevgzshqyercgseczbeazmyxskxemhercxenmdszs elxhmdx,
gsiecxeidmvvxiecxgazy.ezsrmercxegdnkcgzdeoczkceZevqbcxiehmdogdiehmd
cznt

“ZeimesmrejsmoeocgreZecgaxeimsxermelxebmebxaxdxy.erdzxi,”ebgziecxt
“Msy.eromeig.beg meZeogbegecgvv.egsievdmbvxdmqbengs,eozrcmqregekgdxezs
rcxeomdyiteSmoeZegneyxhrermegeymsxy.egsieizbcmsmqdxieg xteMsxebmddmo
kmnxbekymbxeqvmsercxecxxybemhegsmrcxdteN.eszxkx,eNgd.,ecgbeixbxdrxi
nxt”

“Ixbxdrxie.mq?”

“.xbteCxdelxierczbenmdszs ecgiesmrelxxsebyxvrezs,ecxdedmmneogbexnvr.,
gsiegesmrxehmdenxeyg.eqvmsercxecgyyerglyxteZecgiebgziermecxdeygbr
sz cr,ezsebmddmoegsiesmrezsegs xd,ercgrezhebcxecgiengddzxien.elm.egyy
nz crecgaxelxxseoxyyeozrcecznteVxdcgvbezreogbercmq cryxbbemhenxermebg.
bmteZrezbermercgredxngdjercgrebcxedxhxdbezserczbesmrx:

eeee“‘N.eIXGDXBReQSKYX,—ZehxxyercgreZecgaxeldmq crerdmqlyxeqvmse.mq,
eeeegsiercgrezheZecgiegkrxieizhhxdxsry.erczberxddzlyxenzbhmdrqsxenz cr
eeeesxaxdecgaxemkkqddxiteZekgssmr,eozrcerczbercmq crezsen.enzsi,exaxd
eeeeg gzselxecgvv.eqsixde.mqdedmmh,egsieZehxxyercgreZenqbreyxgaxe.mq
eeeehmdxaxdteImesmreomdd.eglmqren.ehqrqdx,ehmdercgrezbevdmazixiehmd;
eeeegsi,eglmaxegyy,eimesmrebxgdkcehmdenx,ehmdezreozyyelxehdqzryxbb
eeeeyglmqdegsiegsezyy-bxdazkxermenxteZseyzhxemdezseixgrc,eZegnexaxd
eeee.mqdeymazs ,


eeee“‘NGD.t’


“Ocgrekmqyiebcxenxgsel.ercgresmrx,eNdteCmynxb?eIme.mqerczsjezrevmzsrb
rmebqzkzix?”

“Sm,esm,esmrczs emhercxejzsiteZrezbevxdcgvbercxelxbrevmbbzlyxebmyqrzmst
Zerdqbr,eNdteCmyixd,ercgre.mqegdxesxgdzs ercxexsiemhe.mqderdmqlyxbt”

“Cg!e.mqebg.ebm!e.mqecgaxecxgdiebmnxrczs ,eNdteCmynxb;e.mqecgaxeyxgdsxi
bmnxrczs !eOcxdxegdxercxe xnb?”

“.mqeomqyiesmrerczsje£e1000egvzxkxegsexpkxbbzaxebqnehmdercxn?”

“Zeomqyievg.erxst”

“Rcgreomqyielxeqssxkxbbgd.teRcdxxercmqbgsieozyyekmaxdercxengrrxdteGsi
rcxdxezbegeyzrryxedxogdi,eZehgsk.teCgaxe.mqe.mqdekcxuqx-lmmj?eCxdxezbeg
vxsteLxrrxdengjxezremqrehmde£e4000t”

OzrcegeigwxiehgkxercxelgsjxdengixemqrercxedxuqzdxiekcxkjteCmynxbeogyjxi
maxdermeczbeixbj,ermmjemqregeyzrryxerdzgs qygdevzxkxemhe myieozrcercdxx
 xnbezsezr,egsiercdxoezreimoseqvmsercxerglyxt

Ozrcegebcdzxjemhefm.emqdekyzxsrekyqrkcxiezreqvt

“.mqecgaxezr!”ecxe gbvxite“Zegnebgaxi!eZegnebgaxi!”

Rcxedxgkrzmsemhefm.eogbegbevgbbzmsgrxegbeczbe dzxhecgielxxs,egsiecx
cq  xieczbedxkmaxdxie xnbermeczbelmbmnt

“Rcxdxezbemsxemrcxderczs e.mqemox,eNdteCmyixd,”ebgzieBcxdymkjeCmynxb
dgrcxdebrxdsy.t

“Mox!”eCxekgq creqvegevxste“Sgnxercxebqn,egsieZeozyyevg.ezrt”

“Sm,ercxeixlrezbesmrermenxte.mqemoxegeaxd.ecqnlyxegvmym .ermercgresmlyx
ygi,e.mqdebms,eocmecgbekgddzxiecznbxyhezserczbengrrxdegbeZebcmqyielx
vdmqiermebxxen.emosebmseim,ebcmqyieZexaxdekcgskxermecgaxemsxt”

“RcxsezreogbesmreGdrcqdeocmermmjercxn?”

“Zermyie.mqe.xbrxdig.,egsieZedxvxgrerm-ig.,ercgrezreogbesmrt”

“.mqegdxebqdxemhezr!eRcxseyxreqbecqdd.ermecznegremskxermeyxrecznejsmo
rcgrercxerdqrcezbejsmost”

“Cxejsmobezregydxgi.teOcxseZecgiekyxgdxiezregyyeqveZecgiegsezsrxdazxo
ozrceczn,egsiehzsizs ercgrecxeomqyiesmrerxyyenxercxebrmd.,eZermyiezrerm
czn,emseoczkcecxecgiermekmshxbbercgreZeogbedz cregsiermegiiercxeaxd.
hxoeixrgzybeoczkceoxdxesmre.xreuqzrxekyxgdermenxte.mqdesxobemherczb
nmdszs ,ecmoxaxd,eng.emvxseczbeyzvbt”

“HmdeCxgaxs’bebgjx,erxyyenx,ercxs,eocgrezberczbexprdgmdizsgd.en.brxd.!”

“Zeozyyeimebm,egsieZeozyyebcmoe.mqercxebrxvbel.eoczkceZedxgkcxiezrteGsi
yxrenxebg.erme.mq,ehzdbr,ercgreoczkcezrezbecgdixbrehmdenxermebg.egsi
hmde.mqermecxgd:ercxdxecgbelxxsegseqsixdbrgsizs elxroxxseBzde xmd x
Lqdsoxyyegsie.mqdeszxkxeNgd.teRcx.ecgaxesmoehyxierm xrcxdt”

“N.eNgd.?eZnvmbbzlyx!”

“Zrezbeqshmdrqsgrxy.enmdxercgsevmbbzlyx;ezrezbekxdrgzsteSxzrcxde.mqesmd
.mqdebmsejsxoercxerdqxekcgdgkrxdemherczbengseocxse.mqeginzrrxiecznezsrm
.mqdehgnzy.ekzdkyxteCxezbemsxemhercxenmbreigs xdmqbenxsezseXs ygsi—g
dqzsxie gnlyxd,egseglbmyqrxy.eixbvxdgrxeazyygzs,egengseozrcmqrecxgdremd
kmsbkzxskxte.mqdeszxkxejsxoesmrczs emhebqkcenxsteOcxsecxeldxgrcxieczb
amobermecxd,egbecxecgieimsxermegecqsidxielxhmdxecxd,ebcxehygrrxdxi
cxdbxyhercgrebcxegymsxecgiermqkcxieczbecxgdrteRcxeixazyejsmobelxbreocgr
cxebgzi,elqregreyxgbrebcxelxkgnxeczbermmyegsieogbezsercxecglzremh
bxxzs ecznesxgdy.exaxd.exaxszs t”

“Zekgssmr,egsieZeozyyesmr,elxyzxaxezr!”ekdzxiercxelgsjxdeozrcegsegbcxs
hgkxt

“Zeozyyerxyye.mq,ercxs,eocgremkkqddxiezse.mqdecmqbxeygbresz crte.mqd
szxkx,eocxse.mqecgi,egbebcxercmq cr,e msxerme.mqdedmmn,ebyzvvxieimos
gsiergyjxiermecxdeymaxdercdmq cercxeozsimoeoczkceyxgibezsrmercxebrglyx
ygsxteCzbehmmrngdjbecgievdxbbxiedz crercdmq cercxebsmo,ebmeyms ecgiecx
brmmiercxdxteBcxermyiecznemhercxekmdmsxrteCzbeozkjxieyqbrehmde myi
jzsiyxiegrercxesxob,egsiecxelxsrecxdermeczbeozyyteZecgaxesmeimqlrercgr
bcxeymaxie.mq,elqrercxdxegdxeomnxsezseocmnercxeymaxemhegeymaxd
xprzs qzbcxbegyyemrcxdeymaxb,egsieZerczsjercgrebcxenqbrecgaxelxxsemsxt
Bcxecgiecgdiy.eyzbrxsxiermeczbezsbrdqkrzmsbeocxsebcxebgoe.mqekmnzs 
imosbrgzdb,emseoczkcebcxekymbxiercxeozsimoedgvziy.egsiermyie.mqeglmqr
msxemhercxebxdagsrb’exbkgvgixeozrcecxdeommixs-yx  xieymaxd,eoczkceogb
gyyevxdhxkry.erdqxt

“.mqdelm.,eGdrcqd,eoxsrermelxieghrxdeczbezsrxdazxoeozrce.mqelqrecx
byxvrelgiy.emsegkkmqsremheczbeqsxgbzsxbbeglmqreczbekyqleixlrbteZsercx
nziiyxemhercxesz crecxecxgdiegebmhrerdxgievgbbeczbeimmd,ebmecxedmbx
gsi,eymmjzs emqr,eogbebqdvdzbxiermebxxeczbekmqbzseogyjzs eaxd.
brxgyrczy.egyms ercxevgbbg xeqsrzyebcxeizbgvvxgdxiezsrme.mqd
idxbbzs -dmmnteVxrdzhzxieozrcegbrmszbcnxsr,ercxeygiebyzvvxiemsebmnx
kymrcxbegsieogzrxiercxdxezsercxeigdjermebxxeocgreomqyiekmnxemherczb
brdgs xeghhgzdteVdxbxsry.ebcxexnxd xiehdmnercxedmmneg gzs,egsiezsercx
yz cremhercxevgbbg x-ygnve.mqdebmsebgoercgrebcxekgddzxiercxevdxkzmqb
kmdmsxrezsecxdecgsibteBcxevgbbxieimosercxebrgzdb,egsiecx,ercdzyyzs 
ozrcecmddmd,edgsegyms egsiebyzvvxielxczsiercxekqdrgzsesxgde.mqdeimmd,
ocxskxecxekmqyiebxxeocgrevgbbxiezsercxecgyyelxsxgrcteCxebgoecxd
brxgyrczy.emvxsercxeozsimo,ecgsiemqrercxekmdmsxrermebmnxmsxezsercx
 ymmn,egsiercxsekymbzs ezremskxenmdxecqdd.elgkjermecxdedmmn,evgbbzs 
uqzrxekymbxermeocxdxecxebrmmieczielxczsiercxekqdrgzst

“Gbeyms egbebcxeogbemsercxebkxsxecxekmqyiesmrergjxegs.egkrzmseozrcmqreg
cmddzlyxexpvmbqdxemhercxeomngseocmnecxeymaxiteLqrercxezsbrgsrercgrebcx
ogbe msxecxedxgyzbxiecmoekdqbczs egenzbhmdrqsxerczbeomqyielxehmde.mq,
gsiecmoegyy-znvmdrgsrezreogbermebxrezredz crteCxedqbcxieimos,efqbregb
cxeogb,ezseczbelgdxehxxr,emvxsxiercxeozsimo,ebvdgs emqrezsrmercxebsmo,
gsiedgseimosercxeygsx,eocxdxecxekmqyiebxxegeigdjehz qdxezsercx
nmmsyz crteBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyyerdzxierme xregog.,elqreGdrcqdekgq cr
czn,egsiercxdxeogbegebrdq  yxelxroxxsercxn,e.mqdeygierq  zs egremsx
bzixemhercxekmdmsxr,egsieczbemvvmsxsregrercxemrcxdteZsercxebkqhhyx,
.mqdebmsebrdqkjeBzde xmd xegsiekqrecznemaxdercxex.xteRcxsebmnxrczs 
bqiixsy.ebsgvvxi,egsie.mqdebms,ehzsizs ercgrecxecgiercxekmdmsxrezseczb
cgsib,edqbcxielgkj,ekymbxiercxeozsimo,egbkxsixierme.mqdedmmn,egsiecgi
fqbremlbxdaxiercgrercxekmdmsxrecgielxxserozbrxiezsercxebrdq  yxegsieogb
xsixgamqdzs ermebrdgz crxsezreocxse.mqegvvxgdxieqvmsercxebkxsxt”

“Zbezrevmbbzlyx?”e gbvxiercxelgsjxdt

“.mqercxsedmqbxieczbegs xdel.ekgyyzs ecznesgnxbegregenmnxsreocxsecx
hxyrercgrecxecgieixbxdaxie.mqdeogdnxbrercgsjbteCxekmqyiesmrexpvygzsercx
rdqxebrgrxemheghhgzdbeozrcmqrelxrdg.zs emsxeocmekxdrgzsy.eixbxdaxi
yzrryxexsmq cekmsbzixdgrzmsegreczbecgsibteCxermmjercxenmdxekczagydmqb
azxo,ecmoxaxd,egsievdxbxdaxiecxdebxkdxrt”

“Gsiercgreogbeoc.ebcxebcdzxjxiegsiehgzsrxieocxsebcxebgoercxekmdmsxr,”
kdzxieNdteCmyixdte“Mc,en.e mi!eocgregelyzsiehmmyeZecgaxelxxs!eGsieczb
gbjzs ermelxegyymoxierme memqrehmdehzaxenzsqrxb!eRcxeixgdehxyymoeogsrxi
rmebxxezhercxenzbbzs evzxkxeoxdxegrercxebkxsxemhercxebrdq  yxteCmo
kdqxyy.eZecgaxenzbfqi xieczn!”

“OcxseZegddzaxiegrercxecmqbx,”ekmsrzsqxieCmynxb,e“Zegremskxeoxsreaxd.
kgdxhqyy.edmqsiezrermemlbxdaxezhercxdxeoxdxegs.erdgkxbezsercxebsmo
oczkcenz crecxyvenxteZejsxoercgresmsxecgiehgyyxsebzskxercxexaxszs 
lxhmdx,egsiegybmercgrercxdxecgielxxsegebrdms ehdmbrermevdxbxdax
znvdxbbzmsbteZevgbbxiegyms ercxerdgixbnxs’bevgrc,elqrehmqsiezregyy
rdgnvyxieimosegsiezsizbrzs qzbcglyxteFqbrelx.msiezr,ecmoxaxd,egrercx
hgdebzixemhercxejzrkcxseimmd,egeomngsecgiebrmmiegsiergyjxieozrcegengs,
ocmbxedmqsieznvdxbbzmsbemsemsxebzixebcmoxiercgrecxecgiegeommixseyx teZ
kmqyiexaxserxyyercgrercx.ecgielxxseizbrqdlxi,ehmdercxeomngsecgiedqs
lgkjebozhry.ermercxeimmd,egbeogbebcmosel.ercxeixxvermxegsieyz crecxxy
ngdjb,eoczyxeOmmixs-yx ecgieogzrxiegeyzrryx,egsiercxsecgie msxegog.teZ
rcmq cregrercxerznxercgrerczbenz crelxercxengziegsiecxdeboxxrcxgdr,emh
ocmne.mqecgiegydxgi.ebvmjxsermenx,egsiezsuqzd.ebcmoxiezreogbebmteZ
vgbbxiedmqsiercxe gdixseozrcmqrebxxzs egs.rczs enmdxercgsedgsimn
rdgkjb,eoczkceZermmjermelxercxevmyzkx;elqreocxseZe mrezsrmercxebrglyx
ygsxegeaxd.eyms egsiekmnvyxpebrmd.eogbeodzrrxsezsercxebsmoezsehdmsremh
nxt

“Rcxdxeogbegeimqlyxeyzsxemherdgkjbemhegelmmrxiengs,egsiegebxkmsieimqlyx
yzsxeoczkceZebgoeozrceixyz crelxyms xiermegengseozrcesgjxiehxxrteZeogb
gremskxekmsazskxiehdmneocgre.mqecgiermyienxercgrercxeygrrxdeogbe.mqd
bmsteRcxehzdbrecgieogyjxielmrceog.b,elqrercxemrcxdecgiedqsebozhry.,egsi
gbeczberdxgieogbengdjxiezsevygkxbemaxdercxeixvdxbbzmsemhercxelmmr,ezr
ogbemlazmqbercgrecxecgievgbbxieghrxdercxemrcxdteZehmyymoxiercxneqvegsi
hmqsiercx.eyxiermercxecgyyeozsimo,eocxdxeLmmrbecgieomdsegyyercxebsmo
gog.eoczyxeogzrzs teRcxseZeogyjxiermercxemrcxdexsi,eoczkceogbegecqsidxi
.gdibemdenmdxeimosercxeygsxteZebgoeocxdxeLmmrbecgiehgkxiedmqsi,eocxdx
rcxebsmoeogbekqreqvegbercmq cercxdxecgielxxsegebrdq  yx,egsi,ehzsgyy.,
ocxdxegehxoeidmvbemhelymmiecgiehgyyxs,ermebcmoenxercgreZeogbesmr
nzbrgjxsteLmmrbecgiercxsedqseimosercxeygsx,egsiegsmrcxdeyzrryxebnqi x
mhelymmiebcmoxiercgrezreogbecxeocmecgielxxsecqdrteOcxsecxekgnxermercx
cz cdmgiegrercxemrcxdexsi,eZehmqsiercgrercxevgaxnxsrecgielxxsekyxgdxi,
bmercxdxeogbegsexsiermercgrekyqxt

“Msexsrxdzs ercxecmqbx,ecmoxaxd,eZexpgnzsxi,egbe.mqedxnxnlxd,ercxebzyy
gsiehdgnxomdjemhercxecgyyeozsimoeozrcen.eyxsb,egsieZekmqyiegremskxebxx
rcgrebmnxmsxecgievgbbxiemqrteZekmqyieizbrzs qzbcercxemqryzsxemhegs
zsbrxveocxdxercxeoxrehmmrecgielxxsevygkxiezsekmnzs ezsteZeogbercxs
lx zsszs ermelxeglyxermehmdnegsemvzszmsegbermeocgrecgiemkkqddxiteGengs
cgieogzrxiemqrbzixercxeozsimo;ebmnxmsxecgieldmq crercxe xnb;ercxeixxi
cgielxxsemaxdbxxsel.e.mqdebms;ecxecgievqdbqxiercxerczxh;ecgiebrdq  yxi
ozrceczn;ercx.ecgiexgkcerq  xiegrercxekmdmsxr,ercxzdeqszrxiebrdxs rc
kgqbzs ezsfqdzxbeoczkcesxzrcxdegymsxekmqyiecgaxexhhxkrxiteCxecgi
dxrqdsxieozrcercxevdzwx,elqrecgieyxhregehdg nxsrezsercxe dgbvemheczb
mvvmsxsrteBmehgdeZeogbekyxgdteRcxeuqxbrzmsesmoeogb,eocmeogbercxengsegsi
ocmeogbezreldmq crecznercxekmdmsxr?

“Zrezbegsemyiengpznemhenzsxercgreocxse.mqecgaxexpkyqixiercxeznvmbbzlyx,
ocgrxaxdedxngzsb,ecmoxaxdeznvdmlglyx,enqbrelxercxerdqrcteSmo,eZejsxo
rcgrezreogbesmre.mqeocmecgieldmq crezreimos,ebmercxdxemsy.edxngzsxi
.mqdeszxkxegsiercxengzibteLqrezhezreoxdxercxengzib,eoc.ebcmqyie.mqdebms
gyymoecznbxyhermelxegkkqbxiezsercxzdevygkx?eRcxdxekmqyielxesmevmbbzlyx
dxgbmsteGbecxeymaxieczbekmqbzs,ecmoxaxd,ercxdxeogbegsexpkxyyxsr
xpvygsgrzmseoc.ecxebcmqyiedxrgzsecxdebxkdxr—rcxenmdxebmegbercxebxkdxr
ogbegeizb dgkxhqyemsxteOcxseZedxnxnlxdxiercgre.mqecgiebxxsecxdegrercgr
ozsimo,egsiecmoebcxecgiehgzsrxiemsebxxzs ercxekmdmsxreg gzs,en.
kmsfxkrqdxelxkgnxegekxdrgzsr.t

“Gsieocmekmqyiezrelxeocmeogbecxdekmshxixdgrx?eGeymaxdexazixsry.,ehmd
ocmexybxekmqyiemqroxz cercxeymaxegsie dgrzrqixeoczkcebcxenqbrehxxyerm
.mq?eZejsxoercgre.mqeoxsremqreyzrryx,egsiercgre.mqdekzdkyxemhehdzxsib
ogbegeaxd.eyznzrxiemsxteLqregnms ercxneogbeBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyyteZecgi
cxgdiemhecznelxhmdxegbelxzs egengsemhexazyedxvqrgrzmsegnms eomnxsteZr
nqbrecgaxelxxsecxeocmeomdxercmbxelmmrbegsiedxrgzsxiercxenzbbzs e xnbt
Xaxsercmq cecxejsxoercgreGdrcqdecgieizbkmaxdxieczn,ecxenz crebrzyy
hygrrxdecznbxyhercgrecxeogbebghx,ehmdercxeygiekmqyiesmrebg.egeomdi
ozrcmqrekmnvdmnzbzs eczbemosehgnzy.t

“Oxyy,e.mqdemose mmiebxsbxeozyyebq  xbreocgrenxgbqdxbeZermmjesxprteZ
oxsrezsercxebcgvxemhegeymghxdermeBzde xmd x’becmqbx,engsg xiermevzkjeqv
gsegkuqgzsrgskxeozrceczbeagyxr,eyxgdsxiercgreczbengbrxdecgiekqreczb
cxgiercxesz crelxhmdx,egsi,ehzsgyy.,egrercxexpvxsbxemhebzpebczyyzs b,
ngixegyyebqdxel.elq.zs egevgzdemheczbekgbr-mhhebcmxbteOzrcercxbxeZ
fmqdsx.xieimosermeBrdxgrcgnegsiebgoercgrercx.expgkry.ehzrrxiercx
rdgkjbt”

“Zebgoegsezyy-idxbbxieag glmsiezsercxeygsxe.xbrxdig.exaxszs ,”ebgzieNdt
Cmyixdt

“Vdxkzbxy.teZreogbeZteZehmqsiercgreZecgien.engs,ebmeZekgnxecmnxegsi
kcgs xien.ekymrcxbteZreogbegeixyzkgrxevgdreoczkceZecgiermevyg.ercxs,
hmdeZebgoercgregevdmbxkqrzmsenqbrelxegamzixiermegaxdrebkgsigy,egsieZ
jsxoercgrebmegbrqrxegeazyygzseomqyiebxxercgremqdecgsibeoxdxerzxiezsercx
ngrrxdteZeoxsregsiebgoecznteGrehzdbr,emhekmqdbx,ecxeixszxiexaxd.rczs t
LqreocxseZe gaxecznexaxd.evgdrzkqygdercgrecgiemkkqddxi,ecxerdzxierm
lyqbrxdegsiermmjeimosegeyzhx-vdxbxdaxdehdmnercxeogyyteZejsxoen.engs,
cmoxaxd,egsieZekygvvxiegevzbrmyermeczbecxgielxhmdxecxekmqyiebrdzjxt
RcxsecxelxkgnxegeyzrryxenmdxedxgbmsglyxteZermyiecznercgreoxeomqyie zax
cznegevdzkxehmdercxebrmsxbecxecxyi—£e1000egvzxkxteRcgreldmq cremqrercx
hzdbrebz sbemhe dzxhercgrecxecgiebcmoste‘Oc.,eigbcezregyy!’ebgziecx,
‘Z’axeyxrercxne megrebzpecqsidxiehmdercxercdxx!’eZebmmsengsg xierme xr
rcxegiidxbbemhercxedxkxzaxdeocmecgiercxn,emsevdmnzbzs ecznercgrercxdx
omqyielxesmevdmbxkqrzmsteMhheZebxrermeczn,egsieghrxdenqkcekcghhxdzs eZ
 mremqdebrmsxbegre£e1000egvzxkxteRcxseZeymmjxiezseqvmse.mqdebms,ermyi
cznercgregyyeogbedz cr,egsiexaxsrqgyy.e mrermen.elxieglmqreromem’kymkj,
ghrxdeocgreZeng.ekgyyegedxgyy.ecgdieig.’beomdjt”

“Geig.eoczkcecgbebgaxieXs ygsiehdmnege dxgrevqlyzkebkgsigy,”ebgziercx
lgsjxd,edzbzs te“Bzd,eZekgssmrehzsieomdibermercgsje.mq,elqre.mqebcgyy
smrehzsienxeqs dgrxhqyehmdeocgre.mqecgaxeimsxte.mqdebjzyyecgbezsixxi
xpkxxixiegyyercgreZecgaxecxgdiemhezrteGsiesmoeZenqbrehy.ermen.eixgdelm.
rmegvmym zbxermecznehmdercxeodms eoczkceZecgaxeimsxecznteGbermeocgre.mq
rxyyenxemhevmmdeNgd.,ezre mxbermen.eaxd.ecxgdrteSmrexaxse.mqdebjzyyekgs
zshmdnenxeocxdxebcxezbesmot”

“Zerczsjercgreoxeng.ebghxy.ebg.,”edxrqdsxieCmynxb,e“rcgrebcxezb
ocxdxaxdeBzde xmd xeLqdsoxyyezbteZrezbexuqgyy.ekxdrgzs,ermm,ercgr
ocgrxaxdecxdebzsbegdx,ercx.eozyyebmmsedxkxzaxegenmdxercgsebqhhzkzxsr
vqszbcnxsrt”



PZZteRCXeGIAXSRQDXeMHeRCXeKMVVXDeLXXKCXB

“Rmercxengseocmeymaxbegdrehmdezrbemosebgjx,”edxngdjxieBcxdymkjeCmynxb,
rmbbzs egbzixercxegiaxdrzbxnxsrebcxxremhe_RcxeIgzy.eRxyx dgvc_,e“zrezb
hdxuqxsry.ezsezrbeyxgbreznvmdrgsregsieymoyzxbrengszhxbrgrzmsbercgrercx
jxxsxbrevyxgbqdxezbermelxeixdzaxiteZrezbevyxgbgsrermenxermemlbxdax,
Ogrbms,ercgre.mqecgaxebmehgde dgbvxierczberdqrcercgrezsercxbxeyzrryx
dxkmdibemhemqdekgbxbeoczkce.mqecgaxelxxse mmiexsmq cermeidgoeqv,egsi,eZ
gnelmqsiermebg.,emkkgbzmsgyy.ermexnlxyyzbc,e.mqecgaxe zaxsevdmnzsxskx
smrebmenqkcermercxengs.e_kgqbxbekéyèldxb_egsiebxsbgrzmsgyerdzgybezs
oczkceZecgaxehz qdxielqredgrcxdermercmbxezskzixsrbeoczkceng.ecgaxelxxs
rdzazgyezsercxnbxyaxb,elqreoczkcecgaxe zaxsedmmnehmdercmbxehgkqyrzxbemh
ixiqkrzmsegsiemheym zkgyeb.srcxbzbeoczkceZecgaxengixen.ebvxkzgy
vdmazskxt”

“Gsie.xr,”ebgzieZ,ebnzyzs ,e“Zekgssmreuqzrxecmyien.bxyheglbmyaxiehdmn
rcxekcgd xemhebxsbgrzmsgyzbneoczkcecgbelxxseqd xieg gzsbren.edxkmdibt”

“.mqecgaxexddxi,evxdcgvb,”ecxemlbxdaxi,ergjzs eqvege ymozs ekzsixdeozrc
rcxerms begsieyz crzs eozrcezrercxeyms ekcxdd.-ommievzvxeoczkceogbeomsr
rmedxvygkxeczbekyg.eocxsecxeogbezsegeizbvqrgrzmqbedgrcxdercgseg
nxizrgrzaxenmmi—“.mqecgaxexddxievxdcgvbezsegrrxnvrzs ermevqrekmymqdegsi
yzhxezsrmexgkcemhe.mqdebrgrxnxsrbezsbrxgiemhekmshzszs e.mqdbxyhermercx
rgbjemhevygkzs eqvmsedxkmdiercgrebxaxdxedxgbmszs ehdmnekgqbxermexhhxkr
oczkcezbedxgyy.ercxemsy.esmrglyxehxgrqdxeglmqrercxerczs t”

“ZrebxxnbermenxercgreZecgaxeimsxe.mqehqyyefqbrzkxezsercxengrrxd,”eZ
dxngdjxieozrcebmnxekmyisxbb,ehmdeZeogbedxvxyyxiel.ercxex mrzbneoczkceZ
cgienmdxercgsemskxemlbxdaxiermelxegebrdms ehgkrmdezsen.ehdzxsi’b
bzs qygdekcgdgkrxdt

“Sm,ezrezbesmrebxyhzbcsxbbemdekmskxzr,”ebgziecx,egsboxdzs ,egbeogbeczb
omsr,en.ercmq crbedgrcxdercgsen.eomdibte“ZheZekygznehqyyefqbrzkxehmden.
gdr,ezrezbelxkgqbxezrezbegseznvxdbmsgyerczs —gerczs elx.msien.bxyht
KdznxezbekmnnmsteYm zkezbedgdxteRcxdxhmdxezrezbeqvmsercxeym zkedgrcxd
rcgseqvmsercxekdznxercgre.mqebcmqyieioxyyte.mqecgaxeix dgixieocgr
bcmqyiecgaxelxxsegekmqdbxemheyxkrqdxbezsrmegebxdzxbemhergyxbt”

Zreogbegekmyienmdszs emhercxexgdy.ebvdzs ,egsieoxebgreghrxdeldxgjhgbr
msexzrcxdebzixemhegekcxxd.ehzdxezsercxemyiedmmnegreLgjxdeBrdxxrteG
rczkjehm edmyyxieimoselxroxxsercxeyzsxbemheiqs-kmymqdxiecmqbxb,egsiercx
mvvmbzs eozsimobeymmnxieyzjxeigdj,ebcgvxyxbbelyqdbercdmq cercxecxga.
.xyymoeodxgrcbteMqde gbeogbeyzregsiebcmsxemsercxeoczrxekymrcegsi
 yznnxdemhekczsgegsienxrgy,ehmdercxerglyxecgiesmrelxxsekyxgdxie.xrt
BcxdymkjeCmynxbecgielxxsebzyxsregyyercxenmdszs ,eizvvzs ekmsrzsqmqby.
zsrmercxegiaxdrzbxnxsrekmyqnsbemhegebqkkxbbzmsemhevgvxdbeqsrzyegreygbr,
cgazs egvvgdxsry.e zaxseqveczbebxgdkc,ecxecgiexnxd xiezsesmeaxd.eboxxr
rxnvxdermeyxkrqdxenxeqvmsen.eyzrxdgd.ebcmdrkmnzs bt

“Grercxebgnxerznx,”ecxedxngdjxieghrxdegevgqbx,eiqdzs eoczkcecxecgiebgr
vqhhzs egreczbeyms evzvxegsie gwzs eimosezsrmercxehzdx,e“.mqekgsecgdiy.
lxemvxsermegekcgd xemhebxsbgrzmsgyzbn,ehmdemqremhercxbxekgbxbeoczkce.mq
cgaxelxxsebmejzsiegbermezsrxdxbre.mqdbxyhezs,egehgzdevdmvmdrzmseimesmr
rdxgremhekdznx,ezsezrbeyx gyebxsbx,egregyyteRcxebngyyengrrxdezseoczkceZ
xsixgamqdxiermecxyvercxeJzs emheLmcxnzg,ercxebzs qygdexpvxdzxskxemh
NzbbeNgd.eBqrcxdygsi,ercxevdmlyxnekmssxkrxieozrcercxengseozrcercx
rozbrxieyzv,egsiercxezskzixsremhercxesmlyxelgkcxymd,eoxdxegyyengrrxdb
oczkcegdxemqrbzixercxevgyxemhercxeygoteLqrezsegamzizs ercxebxsbgrzmsgy,
Zehxgdercgre.mqeng.ecgaxelmdixdxiemsercxerdzazgyt”

“Rcxexsieng.ecgaxelxxsebm,”eZegsboxdxi,e“lqrercxenxrcmibeZecmyiermecgax
lxxsesmaxyegsiemhezsrxdxbrt”

“Vbcgo,en.eixgdehxyymo,eocgreimercxevqlyzk,ercxe dxgreqsmlbxdagsr
vqlyzk,eocmekmqyiecgdiy.erxyyegeoxgaxdel.eczbermmrcemdegekmnvmbzrmdel.
czbeyxhrercqnl,ekgdxeglmqrercxehzsxdebcgixbemhegsgy.bzbegsieixiqkrzms!
Lqr,ezsixxi,ezhe.mqegdxerdzazgy,eZekgssmrelygnxe.mq,ehmdercxeig.bemh
rcxe dxgrekgbxbegdxevgbrteNgs,emdegreyxgbrekdznzsgyengs,ecgbeymbregyy
xsrxdvdzbxegsiemdz zsgyzr.teGbermen.emoseyzrryxevdgkrzkx,ezrebxxnberm
lxeix xsxdgrzs ezsrmegseg xsk.ehmdedxkmaxdzs eymbreyxgievxskzybegsi
 zazs egiazkxerme.mqs eygizxbehdmnelmgdizs -bkcmmybteZerczsjercgreZ
cgaxermqkcxielmrrmnegreygbr,ecmoxaxdteRczbesmrxeZecgierczbenmdszs 
ngdjben.ewxdm-vmzsr,eZehgsk.teDxgiezr!”eCxermbbxiegekdqnvyxieyxrrxd
gkdmbbermenxt

ZreogbeigrxiehdmneNmsrg qxeVygkxeqvmsercxevdxkxizs exaxszs ,egsiedgs
rcqb:

eeee“IXGDeNDteCMYNXB,—Zegneaxd.egspzmqbermekmsbqyre.mqegbermeocxrcxdeZ
eeeebcmqyiemdebcmqyiesmregkkxvregebzrqgrzmseoczkcecgbelxxsemhhxdxierm
eeeenxegbe maxdsxbbteZebcgyyekgyyegrecgyh-vgbrerxserm-nmddmoezheZeim
eeeesmrezskmsaxszxskxe.mqte.mqdbehgzrchqyy.,


eeee“AZMYXReCQSRXDt”


“Ime.mqejsmoercxe.mqs eygi.?”eZegbjxit

“SmreZt”

“Zrezbecgyh-vgbrerxsesmot”

“.xb,egsieZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrezbecxdedzs t”

“Zreng.erqdsemqrermelxemhenmdxezsrxdxbrercgse.mqerczsjte.mqedxnxnlxd
rcgrercxeghhgzdemhercxelyqxekgdlqskyx,eoczkcegvvxgdxiermelxegenxdxeoczn
grehzdbr,eixaxymvxiezsrmegebxdzmqbezsaxbrz grzmsteZreng.elxebmezserczb
kgbx,egybmt”

“Oxyy,eyxreqbecmvxebmteLqremqdeimqlrbeozyyeaxd.ebmmselxebmyaxi,ehmd
cxdx,eqsyxbbeZegnenqkcenzbrgjxs,ezbercxevxdbmsezseuqxbrzmst”

Gbecxebvmjxercxeimmdemvxsxiegsiege.mqs eygi.exsrxdxiercxedmmnteBcxeogb
vygzsy.elqresxgry.eidxbbxi,eozrcegeldz cr,euqzkjehgkx,ehdxkjyxieyzjxeg
vymaxd’bex  ,egsieozrcercxeldzbjengssxdemhegeomngseocmecgbecgiecxdemos
og.ermengjxezsercxeomdyit

“.mqeozyyexpkqbxen.erdmqlyzs e.mq,eZegnebqdx,”ebgziebcx,egben.
kmnvgszmsedmbxerme dxxrecxd,e“lqreZecgaxecgiegeaxd.ebrdgs xexpvxdzxskx,
gsiegbeZecgaxesmevgdxsrbemdedxygrzmsbemhegs.ebmdrehdmneocmneZekmqyiegbj
giazkx,eZercmq crercgrevxdcgvbe.mqeomqyielxejzsiexsmq cermerxyyenxeocgr
Zebcmqyieimt”

“Vdg.ergjxegebxgr,eNzbbeCqsrxdteZebcgyyelxecgvv.ermeimegs.rczs ercgreZ
kgsermebxdaxe.mqt”

ZekmqyiebxxercgreCmynxbeogbehgamqdgly.eznvdxbbxiel.ercxengssxdegsi
bvxxkcemheczbesxoekyzxsrteCxeymmjxiecxdemaxdezseczbebxgdkczs ehgbczms,
gsiercxsekmnvmbxiecznbxyh,eozrceczbeyzibeidmmvzs egsieczbehzs xd-rzvb
rm xrcxd,ermeyzbrxsermecxdebrmd.t

“Zecgaxelxxsege maxdsxbbehmdehzaxe.xgdb,”ebgziebcx,e“zsercxehgnzy.emh
KmymsxyeBvxskxeNqsdm,elqreromenmsrcbeg mercxekmymsxyedxkxzaxiegs
gvvmzsrnxsregreCgyzhgp,ezseSmageBkmrzg,egsiermmjeczbekczyidxsemaxderm
Gnxdzkgeozrceczn,ebmercgreZehmqsien.bxyheozrcmqregebzrqgrzmsteZ
giaxdrzbxi,egsieZegsboxdxiegiaxdrzbxnxsrb,elqreozrcmqrebqkkxbbteGreygbr
rcxeyzrryxenmsx.eoczkceZecgiebgaxielx gsermedqsebcmdr,egsieZeogbegren.
ozr’bexsiegbermeocgreZebcmqyieimt

“Rcxdxezbegeoxyy-jsmoseg xsk.ehmde maxdsxbbxbezsercxeOxbreXsiekgyyxi
Oxbrgog.’b,egsiercxdxeZeqbxiermekgyyeglmqremskxegeoxxjezsemdixdermebxx
ocxrcxdegs.rczs ecgierqdsxieqveoczkcenz crebqzrenxteOxbrgog.eogbercx
sgnxemhercxehmqsixdemhercxelqbzsxbb,elqrezrezbedxgyy.engsg xiel.eNzbb
BrmvxdteBcxebzrbezsecxdemoseyzrryxemhhzkx,egsiercxeygizxbeocmegdx
bxxjzs exnvym.nxsreogzrezsegsegsrxdmmn,egsiegdxercxsebcmosezsemsxel.
msx,eocxsebcxekmsbqyrbecxdeyxi xdbegsiebxxbeocxrcxdebcxecgbegs.rczs 
oczkceomqyiebqzrercxnt

“Oxyy,eocxseZekgyyxieygbreoxxjeZeogbebcmosezsrmercxeyzrryxemhhzkxegb
qbqgy,elqreZehmqsiercgreNzbbeBrmvxdeogbesmregymsxteGevdmiz zmqby.ebrmqr
ngseozrcegeaxd.ebnzyzs ehgkxegsiege dxgrecxga.ekczseoczkcedmyyxieimos
zsehmyieqvmsehmyiemaxdeczbercdmgrebgregrecxdexylmoeozrcegevgzdemh
 ygbbxbemseczbesmbx,eymmjzs eaxd.exgdsxbry.egrercxeygizxbeocmexsrxdxit
GbeZekgnxezsecxe gaxeuqzrxegefqnvezseczbekcgzdegsierqdsxieuqzkjy.erm
NzbbeBrmvxdt

“‘Rcgreozyyeim,’ebgziecx;e‘Zekmqyiesmregbjehmdegs.rczs elxrrxdt
Kgvzrgy!ekgvzrgy!’eCxebxxnxieuqzrxexsrcqbzgbrzkegsiedqllxieczbecgsib
rm xrcxdezsercxenmbre xszgyehgbczmsteCxeogbebqkcegekmnhmdrglyx-ymmjzs 
ngsercgrezreogbeuqzrxegevyxgbqdxermeymmjegrecznt

“‘.mqegdxeymmjzs ehmdegebzrqgrzms,enzbb?’ecxegbjxit

“‘.xb,ebzdt’

“‘Gbe maxdsxbb?’

“‘.xb,ebzdt’

“‘Gsieocgrebgygd.eime.mqegbj?’

“‘Zecgie£e4egenmsrcezsen.eygbrevygkxeozrceKmymsxyeBvxskxeNqsdmt’

“‘Mc,erqr,erqr!eboxgrzs —dgsjeboxgrzs !’ecxekdzxi,ercdmozs eczbehgr
cgsibemqrezsrmercxegzdeyzjxegengseocmezbezsegelmzyzs evgbbzmste‘Cmo
kmqyiegs.msxemhhxdebmevzrzhqyegebqnermegeygi.eozrcebqkcegrrdgkrzmsbegsi
gkkmnvyzbcnxsrb?’

“‘N.egkkmnvyzbcnxsrb,ebzd,eng.elxeyxbbercgse.mqezng zsx,’ebgzieZte‘G
yzrryxeHdxskc,egeyzrryxe xdngs,enqbzk,egsieidgozs —’

“‘Rqr,erqr!’ecxekdzxite‘RczbezbegyyeuqzrxelxbzixercxeuqxbrzmsteRcx
vmzsrezb,ecgaxe.mqemdecgaxe.mqesmrercxelxgdzs egsieixvmdrnxsremheg
ygi.?eRcxdxezrezbezsegesqrbcxyyteZhe.mqecgaxesmr,e.mqegdxesmrehzrrxi
hmdercxedxgdzs emhegekczyieocmeng.ebmnxeig.evyg.egekmsbzixdglyxevgdrezs
rcxeczbrmd.emhercxekmqsrd.teLqrezhe.mqecgaxeoc.,ercxs,ecmoekmqyiegs.
 xsryxngsegbje.mqermekmsixbkxsiermegkkxvregs.rczs eqsixdercxercdxx
hz qdxb?e.mqdebgygd.eozrcenx,engign,eomqyiekmnnxskxegre£e100ege.xgdt’

“.mqeng.ezng zsx,eNdteCmynxb,ercgrermenx,eixbrzrqrxegbeZeogb,ebqkcegs
mhhxdebxxnxiegynmbrermme mmiermelxerdqxteRcxe xsryxngs,ecmoxaxd,ebxxzs 
vxdcgvbercxeymmjemhezskdxiqyzr.eqvmsen.ehgkx,emvxsxiegevmkjxr-lmmjegsi
rmmjemqregesmrxt

“‘Zrezbegybmen.ekqbrmn,’ebgziecx,ebnzyzs ezsercxenmbrevyxgbgsrehgbczms
qsrzyeczbex.xbeoxdxefqbreromeyzrryxebczszs ebyzrbegnziercxeoczrx
kdxgbxbemheczbehgkx,e‘rmegiagskxermen.e.mqs eygizxbecgyhercxzdebgygd.
lxhmdxcgsi,ebmercgrercx.eng.enxxregs.eyzrryxexpvxsbxbemhercxzdefmqdsx.
gsiercxzdeogdidmlxt’

“ZrebxxnxiermenxercgreZecgiesxaxdenxrebmehgbkzsgrzs egsiebmercmq crhqy
gengsteGbeZeogbegydxgi.ezseixlrermen.erdgixbnxs,ercxegiagskxeogbeg
 dxgrekmsaxszxskx,egsie.xrercxdxeogbebmnxrczs eqssgrqdgyeglmqrercx
ocmyxerdgsbgkrzmseoczkcengixenxeozbcermejsmoegeyzrryxenmdxelxhmdxeZ
uqzrxekmnnzrrxien.bxyht

“‘Ng.eZegbjeocxdxe.mqeyzax,ebzd?’ebgzieZt

“‘CgnvbczdxteKcgdnzs edqdgyevygkxteRcxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxb,ehzaxenzyxbems
rcxehgdebzixemheOzskcxbrxdteZrezbercxenmbreymaxy.ekmqsrd.,en.eixgd
.mqs eygi.,egsiercxeixgdxbremyiekmqsrd.-cmqbxt’

“‘Gsien.eiqrzxb,ebzd?eZebcmqyielxe ygiermejsmoeocgrercx.eomqyielxt’

“‘Msxekczyi—msxeixgdeyzrryxedmnvxdefqbrebzpe.xgdbemyiteMc,ezhe.mqekmqyi
bxxecznejzyyzs ekmkjdmgkcxbeozrcegebyzvvxd!eBngkj!ebngkj!ebngkj!eRcdxx
 msxelxhmdxe.mqekmqyieozsj!’eCxeyxgsxielgkjezseczbekcgzdegsieygq cxi
czbex.xbezsrmeczbecxgieg gzst

“Zeogbegeyzrryxebrgdryxiegrercxesgrqdxemhercxekczyi’begnqbxnxsr,elqr
rcxehgrcxd’beygq crxdengixenxerczsjercgrevxdcgvbecxeogbefmjzs t

“‘N.ebmyxeiqrzxb,ercxs,’eZegbjxi,e‘gdxermergjxekcgd xemhegebzs yx
kczyi?’

“‘Sm,esm,esmrercxebmyx,esmrercxebmyx,en.eixgde.mqs eygi.,’ecxekdzxit
‘.mqdeiqr.eomqyielx,egbeZegnebqdxe.mqde mmiebxsbxeomqyiebq  xbr,erm
mlx.egs.eyzrryxekmnngsiben.eozhxenz cre zax,evdmazixiegyog.bercgrercx.
oxdxebqkcekmnngsibegbegeygi.enz creozrcevdmvdzxr.emlx.te.mqebxxesm
izhhzkqyr.,ecxc?’

“‘Zebcmqyielxecgvv.ermengjxen.bxyheqbxhqyt’

“‘UqzrxebmteZseidxbbesmo,ehmdexpgnvyxteOxegdxehgii.evxmvyx,e.mq
jsmo—hgii.elqrejzsi-cxgdrxiteZhe.mqeoxdxegbjxiermeoxgdegs.eidxbbeoczkc
oxenz cre zaxe.mq,e.mqeomqyiesmremlfxkrermemqdeyzrryxeocznteCxc?’

“‘Sm,’ebgzieZ,ekmsbzixdgly.egbrmszbcxiegreczbeomdibt

“‘Mdermebzrecxdx,emdebzrercxdx,ercgreomqyiesmrelxemhhxsbzaxerme.mq?’

“‘Mc,esmt’

“‘Mdermekqre.mqdecgzdeuqzrxebcmdrelxhmdxe.mqekmnxermeqb?’

“Zekmqyiecgdiy.elxyzxaxen.exgdbteGbe.mqeng.emlbxdax,eNdteCmynxb,en.
cgzdezbebmnxocgreyqpqdzgsr,egsiemhegedgrcxdevxkqyzgderzsremhekcxbrsqrt
ZrecgbelxxsekmsbzixdxiegdrzbrzkteZekmqyiesmreidxgnemhebgkdzhzkzs ezrezs
rczbemhhcgsiehgbczmst

“‘Zegneghdgziercgrercgrezbeuqzrxeznvmbbzlyx,’ebgzieZteCxecgielxxs
ogrkczs enxexg xdy.emqremheczbebngyyex.xb,egsieZekmqyiebxxegebcgimo
vgbbemaxdeczbehgkxegbeZebvmjxt

“‘Zegneghdgziercgrezrezbeuqzrxexbbxsrzgy,’ebgziecxte‘Zrezbegeyzrryx
hgsk.emhen.eozhx’b,egsieygizxb’ehgskzxb,e.mqejsmo,engign,eygizxb’
hgskzxbenqbrelxekmsbqyrxiteGsiebme.mqeoms’rekqre.mqdecgzd?’

“‘Sm,ebzd,eZedxgyy.ekmqyiesmr,’eZegsboxdxiehzdny.t

“‘Gc,eaxd.eoxyy;ercxsercgreuqzrxebxrryxbercxengrrxdteZrezbegevzr.,
lxkgqbxezsemrcxdedxbvxkrbe.mqeomqyiedxgyy.ecgaxeimsxeaxd.eszkxy.teZs
rcgrekgbx,eNzbbeBrmvxd,eZecgielxbrezsbvxkregehxoenmdxemhe.mqde.mqs 
ygizxbt’

“Rcxengsg xdxbbecgiebgregyyerczbeoczyxelqb.eozrcecxdevgvxdbeozrcmqreg
omdiermexzrcxdemheqb,elqrebcxe ygskxiegrenxesmoeozrcebmenqkcegssm.gskx
qvmsecxdehgkxercgreZekmqyiesmrecxyvebqbvxkrzs ercgrebcxecgieymbreg
cgsibmnxekmnnzbbzmsercdmq cen.edxhqbgyt

“‘Ime.mqeixbzdxe.mqdesgnxermelxejxvreqvmsercxelmmjb?’ebcxegbjxit

“‘Zhe.mqevyxgbx,eNzbbeBrmvxdt’

“‘Oxyy,edxgyy.,ezrebxxnbedgrcxdeqbxyxbb,ebzskxe.mqedxhqbxercxenmbr
xpkxyyxsremhhxdbezserczbehgbczms,’ebgziebcxebcgdvy.te‘.mqekgsecgdiy.
xpvxkreqbermexpxdremqdbxyaxbermehzsiegsmrcxdebqkcemvxszs ehmde.mqt
 mmi-ig.erme.mq,eNzbbeCqsrxdt’eBcxebrdqkjege ms eqvmsercxerglyx,egsieZ
ogbebcmosemqrel.ercxevg xt

“Oxyy,eNdteCmynxb,eocxseZe mrelgkjermen.eymi zs begsiehmqsieyzrryx
xsmq cezsercxekqvlmgdi,egsieromemdercdxxelzyybeqvmsercxerglyx,eZelx gs
rmegbjen.bxyheocxrcxdeZecgiesmreimsxegeaxd.ehmmyzbcerczs teGhrxdegyy,
zhercxbxevxmvyxecgiebrdgs xehgibegsiexpvxkrxiemlxizxskxemsercxenmbr
xprdgmdizsgd.engrrxdb,ercx.eoxdxegreyxgbredxgi.ermevg.ehmdercxzd
xkkxsrdzkzr.teAxd.ehxoe maxdsxbbxbezseXs ygsiegdxe xrrzs e£e100ege.xgdt
Lxbzixb,eocgreqbxeogben.ecgzdermenx?eNgs.evxmvyxegdxeznvdmaxiel.
oxgdzs ezrebcmdregsievxdcgvbeZebcmqyielxegnms ercxesqnlxdteSxpreig.eZ
ogbezskyzsxiermerczsjercgreZecgiengixegenzbrgjx,egsiel.ercxeig.eghrxdeZ
ogbebqdxemhezrteZecgiegynmbremaxdkmnxen.evdzixebmehgdegberme melgkjerm
rcxeg xsk.egsiezsuqzdxeocxrcxdercxevygkxeogbebrzyyemvxseocxseZedxkxzaxi
rczbeyxrrxdehdmnercxe xsryxngsecznbxyhteZecgaxezrecxdxegsieZeozyyedxgi
zrerme.mq:

“‘RcxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxb,esxgdeOzskcxbrxdt

eeee“‘IXGDeNZBBeCQSRXD,—NzbbeBrmvxdecgbeaxd.ejzsiy.e zaxsenxe.mqd
eeeegiidxbb,egsieZeodzrxehdmnecxdxermegbje.mqeocxrcxde.mqecgax
eeeedxkmsbzixdxie.mqdeixkzbzmsteN.eozhxezbeaxd.egspzmqbercgre.mqebcmqyi
eeeekmnx,ehmdebcxecgbelxxsenqkcegrrdgkrxiel.en.eixbkdzvrzmsemhe.mqteOx
eeeegdxeozyyzs erme zaxe£e30egeuqgdrxd,emde£e120ege.xgd,ebmegberm
eeeedxkmnvxsbxe.mqehmdegs.eyzrryxezskmsaxszxskxeoczkcemqdehgibeng.
eeeekgqbxe.mqteRcx.egdxesmreaxd.expgkrzs ,eghrxdegyyteN.eozhxezbehmsi
eeeemhegevgdrzkqygdebcgixemhexyxkrdzkelyqxegsieomqyieyzjxe.mqermeoxgd
eeeebqkcegeidxbbezsimmdbezsercxenmdszs te.mqesxxiesmr,ecmoxaxd,e merm
eeeercxexpvxsbxemhevqdkcgbzs emsx,egbeoxecgaxemsxelxyms zs ermen.eixgd
eeeeigq crxdeGyzkxe(smoezseVczygixyvczg),eoczkceomqyi,eZebcmqyierczsj,
eeeehzre.mqeaxd.eoxyyteRcxs,egbermebzrrzs ecxdxemdercxdx,emdegnqbzs 
eeee.mqdbxyhezsegs.engssxdezsizkgrxi,ercgresxxiekgqbxe.mqesm
eeeezskmsaxszxskxteGbedx gdibe.mqdecgzd,ezrezbesmeimqlregevzr.,
eeeexbvxkzgyy.egbeZekmqyiesmrecxyvedxngdjzs ezrbelxgqr.eiqdzs emqd
eeeebcmdrezsrxdazxo,elqreZegneghdgziercgreZenqbredxngzsehzdneqvmserczb
eeeevmzsr,egsieZemsy.ecmvxercgrercxezskdxgbxiebgygd.eng.edxkmnvxsbxe.mq
eeeehmdercxeymbbte.mqdeiqrzxb,egbehgdegbercxekczyiezbekmskxdsxi,egdx
eeeeaxd.eyz crteSmoeimerd.ermekmnx,egsieZebcgyyenxxre.mqeozrcercx
eeeeim -kgdregreOzskcxbrxdteYxrenxejsmoe.mqderdgzste.mqdbehgzrchqyy.,


eeee“‘FXVCDMeDQKGBRYXt’


“RcgrezbercxeyxrrxdeoczkceZecgaxefqbredxkxzaxi,eNdteCmynxb,egsien.enzsi
zbengixeqvercgreZeozyyegkkxvrezrteZercmq cr,ecmoxaxd,ercgrelxhmdx
rgjzs ercxehzsgyebrxveZebcmqyieyzjxermebqlnzrercxeocmyxengrrxderme.mqd
kmsbzixdgrzmst”

“Oxyy,eNzbbeCqsrxd,ezhe.mqdenzsiezbengixeqv,ercgrebxrryxbercx
uqxbrzms,”ebgzieCmynxb,ebnzyzs t

“Lqre.mqeomqyiesmregiazbxenxermedxhqbx?”

“ZekmshxbbercgrezrezbesmrercxebzrqgrzmseoczkceZebcmqyieyzjxermebxxeg
bzbrxdemhenzsxegvvy.ehmdt”

“Ocgrezbercxenxgszs emhezregyy,eNdteCmynxb?”

“Gc,eZecgaxesmeigrgteZekgssmrerxyyteVxdcgvbe.mqecgaxe.mqdbxyhehmdnxi
bmnxemvzszms?”

“Oxyy,ercxdxebxxnbermenxermelxemsy.emsxevmbbzlyxebmyqrzmsteNdteDqkgbryx
bxxnxiermelxegeaxd.ejzsi,e mmi-sgrqdxiengsteZbezresmrevmbbzlyxercgreczb
ozhxezbegeyqsgrzk,ercgrecxeixbzdxbermejxxvercxengrrxdeuqzxrehmdehxgd
bcxebcmqyielxergjxsermegsegb.yqn,egsiercgrecxecqnmqdbecxdehgskzxbezs
xaxd.eog.ezsemdixdermevdxaxsregsemqrldxgj?”

“Rcgrezbegevmbbzlyxebmyqrzms—zsehgkr,egbengrrxdbebrgsi,ezrezbercxenmbr
vdmlglyxemsxteLqrezsegs.ekgbxezreimxbesmrebxxnermelxegeszkxecmqbxcmyi
hmdege.mqs eygi.t”

“Lqrercxenmsx.,eNdteCmynxb,ercxenmsx.!”

“Oxyy,e.xb,emhekmqdbxercxevg.ezbe mmi—rmme mmiteRcgrezbeocgrengjxbenx
qsxgb.teOc.ebcmqyiercx.e zaxe.mqe£e120ege.xgd,eocxsercx.ekmqyiecgax
rcxzdevzkjehmde£e40?eRcxdxenqbrelxebmnxebrdms edxgbmselxczsit”

“Zercmq crercgrezheZermyie.mqercxekzdkqnbrgskxbe.mqeomqyieqsixdbrgsi
ghrxdogdibezheZeogsrxie.mqdecxyvteZebcmqyiehxxyebmenqkcebrdms xdezheZ
hxyrercgre.mqeoxdxegrercxelgkjemhenxt”

“Mc,e.mqeng.ekgdd.ercgrehxxyzs egog.eozrce.mqteZegbbqdxe.mqercgre.mqd
yzrryxevdmlyxnevdmnzbxbermelxercxenmbrezsrxdxbrzs eoczkcecgbekmnxen.
og.ehmdebmnxenmsrcbteRcxdxezbebmnxrczs eizbrzskry.esmaxyeglmqrebmnxemh
rcxehxgrqdxbteZhe.mqebcmqyiehzsie.mqdbxyhezseimqlremdezseigs xd—”

“Igs xd!eOcgreigs xdeime.mqehmdxbxx?”

Cmynxbebcmmjeczbecxgie dgaxy.te“Zreomqyiekxgbxermelxegeigs xdezheox
kmqyieixhzsxezr,”ebgziecxte“Lqregregs.erznx,eig.emdesz cr,egerxyx dgn
omqyieldzs enxeimoserme.mqdecxyvt”

“Rcgrezbexsmq ct”eBcxedmbxeldzbjy.ehdmnecxdekcgzdeozrcercxegspzxr.egyy
boxvrehdmnecxdehgkxte“Zebcgyye meimosermeCgnvbczdxeuqzrxexgb.ezsen.
nzsiesmoteZebcgyyeodzrxermeNdteDqkgbryxegremskx,ebgkdzhzkxen.evmmdecgzd
rm-sz cr,egsiebrgdrehmdeOzskcxbrxderm-nmddmot”eOzrcegehxoe dgrxhqy
omdibermeCmynxbebcxelgixeqbelmrce mmi-sz cregsielqbryxiemhheqvmsecxd
og.t

“Greyxgbr,”ebgzieZegbeoxecxgdiecxdeuqzkj,ehzdnebrxvbeixbkxsizs ercx
brgzdb,e“bcxebxxnbermelxege.mqs eygi.eocmezbeaxd.eoxyyeglyxermergjx
kgdxemhecxdbxyht”

“Gsiebcxeomqyiesxxiermelx,”ebgzieCmynxbe dgaxy.te“Zegnenqkcenzbrgjxsezh
oxeimesmrecxgdehdmnecxdelxhmdxengs.eig.begdxevgbrt”

Zreogbesmreaxd.eyms elxhmdxen.ehdzxsi’bevdxizkrzmseogbehqyhzyyxiteG
hmdrsz creoxsrel.,eiqdzs eoczkceZehdxuqxsry.ehmqsien.ercmq crberqdszs 
zsecxdeizdxkrzmsegsieomsixdzs eocgrebrdgs xebzix-gyyx.emhecqngs
xpvxdzxskxerczbeymsxy.eomngsecgiebrdg.xiezsrmteRcxeqsqbqgyebgygd.,ercx
kqdzmqbekmsizrzmsb,ercxeyz creiqrzxb,egyyevmzsrxiermebmnxrczs 
glsmdngy,ercmq ceocxrcxdegehgiemdegevymr,emdeocxrcxdercxengseoxdxeg
vczygsrcdmvzbremdegeazyygzs,ezreogbeuqzrxelx.msien.evmoxdberm
ixrxdnzsxteGbermeCmynxb,eZemlbxdaxiercgrecxebgrehdxuqxsry.ehmdecgyhegs
cmqdemsexsi,eozrcejszrrxieldmobegsiegseglbrdgkrxiegzd,elqrecxeboxvrercx
ngrrxdegog.eozrcegeogaxemheczbecgsieocxseZenxsrzmsxiezrte“Igrg!eigrg!
igrg!”ecxekdzxieznvgrzxsry.te“Zekgs’rengjxeldzkjbeozrcmqrekyg.t”eGsi
.xrecxeomqyiegyog.beozsieqvel.enqrrxdzs ercgresmebzbrxdemheczbebcmqyi
xaxdecgaxegkkxvrxiebqkcegebzrqgrzmst

Rcxerxyx dgneoczkceoxexaxsrqgyy.edxkxzaxiekgnxeygrxemsxesz crefqbregbeZ
ogberczsjzs emherqdszs ezsegsieCmynxbeogbebxrryzs eimosermemsxemhercmbx
gyy-sz crekcxnzkgyedxbxgdkcxbeoczkcecxehdxuqxsry.ezsiqy xiezs,eocxseZ
omqyieyxgaxecznebrmmvzs emaxdegedxrmdregsiegerxbr-rqlxegresz cregsi
hzsiecznezsercxebgnxevmbzrzmseocxseZekgnxeimosermeldxgjhgbrezsercx
nmdszs teCxemvxsxiercxe.xyymoexsaxymvx,egsiercxs,e ygskzs egrercx
nxbbg x,ercdxoezregkdmbbermenxt

“FqbreymmjeqvercxerdgzsbezseLdgibcgo,”ebgziecx,egsierqdsxielgkjermeczb
kcxnzkgyebrqizxbt

Rcxebqnnmsbeogbegeldzxhegsieqd xsremsxt

“VyxgbxelxegrercxeLygkjeBogseCmrxyegreOzskcxbrxdegrenziig.erm-nmddmo,”
zrebgzite“Imekmnx!eZegnegren.eozr’bexsit


“CQSRXDt”


“Ozyye.mqekmnxeozrcenx?”egbjxieCmynxb,e ygskzs eqvt

“Zebcmqyieozbcermt”

“Fqbreymmjezreqv,ercxst”

“Rcxdxezbegerdgzsegrecgyh-vgbreszsx,”ebgzieZ,e ygskzs emaxden.
Ldgibcgote“ZrezbeiqxegreOzskcxbrxdegre11:30t”

“Rcgreozyyeimeaxd.eszkxy.teRcxsevxdcgvbeZecgielxrrxdevmbrvmsxen.
gsgy.bzbemhercxegkxrmsxb,egbeoxeng.esxxiermelxegremqdelxbrezsercx
nmdszs t”

L.exyxaxsem’kymkjercxesxpreig.eoxeoxdxeoxyyeqvmsemqdeog.ermercxemyi
Xs yzbcekgvzrgyteCmynxbecgielxxselqdzxiezsercxenmdszs evgvxdbegyyercx
og.eimos,elqreghrxdeoxecgievgbbxiercxeCgnvbczdxelmdixdecxercdxoercxn
imosegsielx gsermeginzdxercxebkxsxd.teZreogbegsezixgyebvdzs eig.,eg
yz crelyqxebj.,ehyxkjxieozrceyzrryxehyxxk.eoczrxekymqibeidzhrzs egkdmbb
hdmneoxbrermexgbrteRcxebqseogbebczszs eaxd.eldz cry.,egsie.xrercxdxeogb
gsexpczygdgrzs eszvezsercxegzd,eoczkcebxregsexi xermegengs’bexsxd .t
Gyyemaxdercxekmqsrd.bzix,egog.ermercxedmyyzs eczyybegdmqsieGyixdbcmr,
rcxeyzrryxedxiegsie dx.edmmhbemhercxehgdn-brxgizs bevxxvxiemqrehdmn
gnziercxeyz cre dxxsemhercxesxoehmyzg xt

“Gdxercx.esmrehdxbcegsielxgqrzhqy?”eZekdzxieozrcegyyercxexsrcqbzgbnemh
gengsehdxbcehdmnercxehm bemheLgjxdeBrdxxrt

LqreCmynxbebcmmjeczbecxgie dgaxy.t

“Ime.mqejsmo,eOgrbms,”ebgziecx,e“rcgrezrezbemsxemhercxekqdbxbemhegenzsi
ozrcegerqdseyzjxenzsxercgreZenqbreymmjegrexaxd.rczs eozrcedxhxdxskxerm
n.emosebvxkzgyebqlfxkrte.mqeymmjegrercxbxebkgrrxdxiecmqbxb,egsie.mqegdx
znvdxbbxiel.ercxzdelxgqr.teZeymmjegrercxn,egsiercxemsy.ercmq creoczkc
kmnxbermenxezbegehxxyzs emhercxzdezbmygrzmsegsiemhercxeznvqszr.eozrc
oczkcekdznxeng.elxekmnnzrrxiercxdxt”

“ mmiecxgaxsb!”eZekdzxite“Ocmeomqyiegbbmkzgrxekdznxeozrcercxbxeixgdemyi
cmnxbrxgib?”

“Rcx.egyog.behzyyenxeozrcegekxdrgzsecmddmdteZrezben.elxyzxh,eOgrbms,
hmqsixieqvmsen.expvxdzxskx,ercgrercxeymoxbregsieazyxbregyyx.bezseYmsims
imesmrevdxbxsregenmdxeidxgihqyedxkmdiemhebzsercgseimxbercxebnzyzs egsi
lxgqrzhqyekmqsrd.bzixt”

“.mqecmddzh.enx!”

“Lqrercxedxgbmsezbeaxd.emlazmqbteRcxevdxbbqdxemhevqlyzkemvzszmsekgseim
zsercxermoseocgrercxeygoekgssmregkkmnvyzbcteRcxdxezbesmeygsxebmeazyx
rcgrercxebkdxgnemhegermdrqdxiekczyi,emdercxercqiemhegeidqsjgdi’belymo,
imxbesmrelx xreb.nvgrc.egsiezsiz sgrzmsegnms ercxesxz clmqdb,egsiercxs
rcxeocmyxengkczsxd.emhefqbrzkxezbexaxdebmekymbxercgregeomdiemh
kmnvygzsrekgsebxrezre mzs ,egsiercxdxezbelqregebrxvelxroxxsercxekdznx
gsiercxeimkjteLqreymmjegrercxbxeymsxy.ecmqbxb,exgkcezsezrbemosehzxyib,
hzyyxiehmdercxenmbrevgdreozrcevmmdez smdgsrehmyjeocmejsmoeyzrryxemhercx
ygoteRczsjemhercxeixxibemhecxyyzbcekdqxyr.,ercxecziixseozkjxisxbbeoczkc
ng.e mems,e.xgdezs,e.xgdemqr,ezsebqkcevygkxb,egsiesmsxercxeozbxdteCgi
rczbeygi.eocmegvvxgybermeqbehmdecxyve msxermeyzaxezseOzskcxbrxd,eZ
bcmqyiesxaxdecgaxecgiegehxgdehmdecxdteZrezbercxehzaxenzyxbemhekmqsrd.
oczkcengjxbercxeigs xdteBrzyy,ezrezbekyxgdercgrebcxezbesmrevxdbmsgyy.
rcdxgrxsxit”

“SmteZhebcxekgsekmnxermeOzskcxbrxdermenxxreqbebcxekgse xregog.t”

“UqzrxebmteBcxecgbecxdehdxximnt”

“Ocgre_kgs_elxercxengrrxd,ercxs?eKgse.mqebq  xbresmexpvygsgrzms?”

“Zecgaxeixazbxiebxaxsebxvgdgrxexpvygsgrzmsb,exgkcemheoczkceomqyiekmaxd
rcxehgkrbegbehgdegbeoxejsmoercxnteLqreoczkcemhercxbxezbekmddxkrekgs
msy.elxeixrxdnzsxiel.ercxehdxbcezshmdngrzmseoczkceoxebcgyyesmeimqlr
hzsieogzrzs ehmdeqbteOxyy,ercxdxezbercxermoxdemhercxekgrcxidgy,egsieox
bcgyyebmmseyxgdsegyyercgreNzbbeCqsrxdecgbermerxyyt”

RcxeLygkjeBogsezbegsezssemhedxvqrxezsercxeCz ceBrdxxr,egresmeizbrgskx
hdmnercxebrgrzms,egsiercxdxeoxehmqsiercxe.mqs eygi.eogzrzs ehmdeqbteBcx
cgiexs g xiegebzrrzs -dmmn,egsiemqdeyqskcegogzrxieqbeqvmsercxerglyxt

“Zegnebmeixyz crxiercgre.mqecgaxekmnx,”ebcxebgziexgdsxbry.te“Zrezbebm
axd.ejzsiemhe.mqelmrc;elqrezsixxieZeimesmrejsmoeocgreZebcmqyieimte.mqd
giazkxeozyyelxegyrm xrcxdezsagyqglyxermenxt”

“Vdg.erxyyeqbeocgrecgbecgvvxsxierme.mqt”

“Zeozyyeimebm,egsieZenqbrelxeuqzkj,ehmdeZecgaxevdmnzbxieNdteDqkgbryxerm
lxelgkjelxhmdxercdxxteZe mreczbeyxgaxermekmnxezsrmermoserczbenmdszs ,
rcmq cecxeyzrryxejsxoehmdeocgrevqdvmbxt”

“Yxreqbecgaxexaxd.rczs ezsezrbeiqxemdixdt”eCmynxbercdqbreczbeyms erczs
yx bemqrermogdibercxehzdxegsiekmnvmbxiecznbxyhermeyzbrxst

“Zsercxehzdbrevygkx,eZeng.ebg.ercgreZecgaxenxr,emsercxeocmyx,eozrcesm
gkrqgyezyy-rdxgrnxsrehdmneNdtegsieNdbteDqkgbryxteZrezbemsy.ehgzderm
rcxnermebg.ercgrteLqreZekgssmreqsixdbrgsiercxn,egsieZegnesmrexgb.ezsen.
nzsieglmqrercxnt”

“Ocgrekgse.mqesmreqsixdbrgsi?”

“RcxzdedxgbmsbehmdercxzdekmsiqkrteLqre.mqebcgyyecgaxezregyyefqbregbezr
mkkqddxiteOcxseZekgnxeimos,eNdteDqkgbryxenxrenxecxdxegsieidmaxenxezs
czbeim -kgdrermercxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxbteZrezb,egbecxebgzi,elxgqrzhqyy.
bzrqgrxi,elqrezrezbesmrelxgqrzhqyezsezrbxyh,ehmdezrezbegeygd xebuqgdx
lymkjemhegecmqbx,eoczrxogbcxi,elqregyyebrgzsxiegsiebrdxgjxieozrceignv
gsielgieoxgrcxdteRcxdxegdxe dmqsibedmqsiezr,eommibemsercdxxebzixb,egsi
msercxehmqdrcegehzxyieoczkcebymvxbeimosermercxeBmqrcgnvrmsecz cdmgi,
oczkcekqdaxbevgbreglmqregecqsidxie.gdibehdmnercxehdmsreimmdteRczb
 dmqsiezsehdmsrelxyms bermercxecmqbx,elqrercxeommibegyyedmqsiegdxevgdr
mheYmdieBmqrcxdrms’bevdxbxdaxbteGekyqnvemhekmvvxdelxxkcxbeznnxizgrxy.
zsehdmsremhercxecgyyeimmdecgbe zaxsezrbesgnxermercxevygkxt

“Zeogbeidzaxsemaxdel.en.exnvym.xd,eocmeogbegbegnzglyxegbexaxd,egsieogb
zsrdmiqkxiel.ecznercgrexaxszs ermeczbeozhxegsiercxekczyiteRcxdxeogbesm
rdqrc,eNdteCmynxb,ezsercxekmsfxkrqdxeoczkcebxxnxiermeqbermelxevdmlglyx
zse.mqdedmmnbegreLgjxdeBrdxxrteNdbteDqkgbryxezbesmrengiteZehmqsiecxderm
lxegebzyxsr,evgyx-hgkxieomngs,enqkce.mqs xdercgsecxdecqblgsi,esmrenmdx
rcgserczdr.,eZebcmqyierczsj,eoczyxecxekgsecgdiy.elxeyxbbercgs
hmdr.-hzaxteHdmnercxzdekmsaxdbgrzmseZecgaxe grcxdxiercgrercx.ecgaxelxxs
ngddzxieglmqrebxaxse.xgdb,ercgrecxeogbegeozimoxd,egsiercgreczbemsy.
kczyiel.ercxehzdbreozhxeogbercxeigq crxdeocmecgbe msxermeVczygixyvczgt
NdteDqkgbryxermyienxezsevdzagrxercgrercxedxgbmseoc.ebcxecgieyxhrercxn
ogbercgrebcxecgiegseqsdxgbmszs egaxdbzmsermecxdebrxvnmrcxdteGbercx
igq crxdekmqyiesmrecgaxelxxseyxbbercgseroxsr.,eZekgseuqzrxezng zsxercgr
cxdevmbzrzmsenqbrecgaxelxxseqskmnhmdrglyxeozrcecxdehgrcxd’be.mqs eozhxt

“NdbteDqkgbryxebxxnxiermenxermelxekmymqdyxbbezsenzsiegbeoxyyegbezs
hxgrqdxteBcxeznvdxbbxienxesxzrcxdehgamqdgly.esmdercxedxaxdbxteBcxeogbeg
smsxsrzr.teZreogbexgb.ermebxxercgrebcxeogbevgbbzmsgrxy.eixamrxielmrcerm
cxdecqblgsiegsiermecxdeyzrryxebmsteCxdeyz cre dx.ex.xbeogsixdxi
kmsrzsqgyy.ehdmnemsxermercxemrcxd,esmrzs exaxd.eyzrryxeogsregsi
hmdxbrgyyzs ezrezhevmbbzlyxteCxeogbejzsiermecxdegybmezseczbelyqhh,
lmzbrxdmqbehgbczms,egsiemsercxeocmyxercx.ebxxnxiermelxegecgvv.ekmqvyxt
Gsie.xrebcxecgiebmnxebxkdxrebmddmo,erczbeomngsteBcxeomqyiemhrxselxeymbr
zseixxvercmq cr,eozrcercxebgiixbreymmjeqvmsecxdehgkxteNmdxercgsemskxeZ
cgaxebqdvdzbxiecxdezserxgdbteZecgaxercmq crebmnxrznxbercgrezreogbercx
izbvmbzrzmsemhecxdekczyieoczkceoxz cxieqvmsecxdenzsi,ehmdeZecgaxesxaxd
nxrebmeqrrxdy.ebvmzyxiegsiebmezyy-sgrqdxiegeyzrryxekdxgrqdxteCxezb
bngyyehmdeczbeg x,eozrcegecxgieoczkcezbeuqzrxeizbvdmvmdrzmsgrxy.eygd xt
Czbeocmyxeyzhxegvvxgdbermelxebvxsrezsegsegyrxdsgrzmselxroxxsebgag x
hzrbemhevgbbzmsegsie ymmn.ezsrxdagybemhebqyjzs te zazs evgzsermegs.
kdxgrqdxeoxgjxdercgsecznbxyhebxxnbermelxeczbemsxezixgemhegnqbxnxsr,egsi
cxebcmobeuqzrxedxngdjglyxergyxsrezsevygsszs ercxekgvrqdxemhenzkx,
yzrryxelzdib,egsiezsbxkrbteLqreZeomqyiedgrcxdesmrergyjeglmqrercx
kdxgrqdx,eNdteCmynxb,egsi,ezsixxi,ecxecgbeyzrryxermeimeozrcen.ebrmd.t”

“Zegne ygiemhegyyeixrgzyb,”edxngdjxien.ehdzxsi,e“ocxrcxdercx.ebxxnerm
.mqermelxedxyxagsremdesmrt”

“Zebcgyyerd.esmrermenzbbegs.rczs emheznvmdrgskxteRcxemsxeqsvyxgbgsr
rczs eglmqrercxecmqbx,eoczkcebrdqkjenxegremskx,eogbercxegvvxgdgskxegsi
kmsiqkremhercxebxdagsrbteRcxdxegdxemsy.erom,egengsegsieczbeozhxt
Rmyyxd,ehmdercgrezbeczbesgnx,ezbegedmq c,eqskmqrcengs,eozrce dzwwyxi
cgzdegsieoczbjxdb,egsiegevxdvxrqgyebnxyyemheidzsjteRozkxebzskxeZecgax
lxxseozrcercxnecxecgbelxxseuqzrxeidqsj,egsie.xreNdteDqkgbryxebxxnxierm
rgjxesmesmrzkxemhezrteCzbeozhxezbegeaxd.ergyyegsiebrdms eomngseozrceg
bmqdehgkx,egbebzyxsregbeNdbteDqkgbryxegsienqkceyxbbegnzglyxteRcx.egdxeg
nmbreqsvyxgbgsrekmqvyx,elqrehmdrqsgrxy.eZebvxsienmbremhen.erznxezsercx
sqdbxd.egsien.emosedmmn,eoczkcegdxesxprermexgkcemrcxdezsemsxekmdsxdemh
rcxelqzyizs t

“Hmderomeig.beghrxden.egddzagyegrercxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxben.eyzhxeogbeaxd.
uqzxr;emsercxerczdi,eNdbteDqkgbryxekgnxeimosefqbreghrxdeldxgjhgbregsi
oczbvxdxiebmnxrczs ermecxdecqblgsit

“‘Mc,e.xb,’ebgziecx,erqdszs ermenx,e‘oxegdxeaxd.enqkcemlyz xierme.mq,
NzbbeCqsrxd,ehmdehgyyzs ezseozrcemqdeocznbebmehgdegbermekqre.mqdecgzdt
Zegbbqdxe.mqercgrezrecgbesmreixrdgkrxiezsercxerzszxbrezmrgehdmne.mqd
gvvxgdgskxteOxebcgyyesmoebxxecmoercxexyxkrdzk-lyqxeidxbbeozyyelxkmnx
.mqte.mqeozyyehzsiezreygziemqreqvmsercxelxiezse.mqdedmmn,egsiezhe.mq
omqyielxebme mmiegbermevqrezremseoxebcmqyielmrcelxexprdxnxy.emlyz xit’

“RcxeidxbbeoczkceZehmqsieogzrzs ehmdenxeogbemhegevxkqyzgdebcgixemh
lyqxteZreogbemhexpkxyyxsrengrxdzgy,egebmdremhelxz x,elqrezrelmdx
qsnzbrgjglyxebz sbemhecgazs elxxseomdselxhmdxteZrekmqyiesmrecgaxelxxseg
lxrrxdehzrezheZecgielxxsenxgbqdxiehmdezrteLmrceNdtegsieNdbteDqkgbryx
xpvdxbbxiegeixyz cregrercxeymmjemhezr,eoczkcebxxnxieuqzrxexpg  xdgrxi
zsezrbeaxcxnxskxteRcx.eoxdxeogzrzs ehmdenxezsercxeidgozs -dmmn,eoczkc
zbegeaxd.eygd xedmmn,ebrdxrkczs egyms ercxexsrzdxehdmsremhercxecmqbx,
ozrcercdxxeyms eozsimobedxgkczs eimosermercxehymmdteGekcgzdecgielxxs
vygkxiekymbxermercxekxsrdgyeozsimo,eozrcezrbelgkjerqdsxiermogdibezrteZs
rczbeZeogbegbjxiermebzr,egsiercxseNdteDqkgbryx,eogyjzs eqvegsieimosems
rcxemrcxdebzixemhercxedmmn,elx gsermerxyyenxegebxdzxbemhercxehqsszxbr
brmdzxbercgreZecgaxexaxdeyzbrxsxiermte.mqekgssmrezng zsxecmoekmnzkgyecx
ogb,egsieZeygq cxieqsrzyeZeogbeuqzrxeoxgd.teNdbteDqkgbryx,ecmoxaxd,eocm
cgbexazixsry.esmebxsbxemhecqnmqd,esxaxdebmenqkcegbebnzyxi,elqrebgreozrc
cxdecgsibezsecxdeygv,egsiegebgi,egspzmqbeymmjeqvmsecxdehgkxteGhrxdegs
cmqdemdebm,eNdteDqkgbryxebqiixsy.edxngdjxiercgrezreogberznxermekmnnxskx
rcxeiqrzxbemhercxeig.,egsiercgreZenz crekcgs xen.eidxbbegsie merm
yzrryxeXiogdiezsercxesqdbxd.t

“Romeig.beygrxderczbebgnxevxdhmdngskxeogbe msxercdmq ceqsixdexpgkry.
bznzygdekzdkqnbrgskxbteG gzseZekcgs xien.eidxbb,eg gzseZebgrezsercx
ozsimo,egsieg gzseZeygq cxieaxd.ecxgdrzy.egrercxehqss.ebrmdzxbemheoczkc
n.exnvym.xdecgiegseznnxsbxe_dévxdrmzdx_,egsieoczkcecxermyiezsznzrgly.t
Rcxsecxecgsixienxege.xyymo-lgkjxiesmaxy,egsienmazs en.ekcgzdegeyzrryx
bzixog.b,ercgren.emosebcgimoenz cresmrehgyyeqvmsercxevg x,ecxelx  xienx
rmedxgiegymqiermecznteZedxgiehmdeglmqrerxsenzsqrxb,elx zsszs ezsercx
cxgdremhegekcgvrxd,egsiercxsebqiixsy.,ezsercxenziiyxemhegebxsrxskx,ecx
mdixdxienxermekxgbxegsiermekcgs xen.eidxbbt

“.mqekgsexgbzy.ezng zsx,eNdteCmynxb,ecmoekqdzmqbeZelxkgnxegbermeocgr
rcxenxgszs emherczbexprdgmdizsgd.evxdhmdngskxekmqyievmbbzly.elxteRcx.
oxdxegyog.beaxd.ekgdxhqy,eZemlbxdaxi,ermerqdsen.ehgkxegog.ehdmnercx
ozsimo,ebmercgreZelxkgnxekmsbqnxieozrcercxeixbzdxermebxxeocgreogbe mzs 
mselxczsien.elgkjteGrehzdbrezrebxxnxiermelxeznvmbbzlyx,elqreZebmms
ixazbxiegenxgsbteN.ecgsi-nzddmdecgielxxseldmjxs,ebmegecgvv.ercmq cr
bxzwxienx,egsieZekmskxgyxiegevzxkxemhercxe ygbbezsen.ecgsijxdkczxhteMs
rcxesxpremkkgbzms,ezsercxenzibremhen.eygq crxd,eZevqren.ecgsijxdkczxh
qvermen.ex.xb,egsieogbeglyxeozrcegeyzrryxengsg xnxsrermebxxegyyercgr
rcxdxeogbelxczsienxteZekmshxbbercgreZeogbeizbgvvmzsrxiteRcxdxeogb
smrczs teGreyxgbrercgreogben.ehzdbreznvdxbbzmsteGrercxebxkmsie ygskx,
cmoxaxd,eZevxdkxzaxiercgrercxdxeogbegengsebrgsizs ezsercxeBmqrcgnvrms
Dmgi,egebngyyelxgdixiengsezsege dx.ebqzr,eocmebxxnxiermelxeymmjzs ezs
n.eizdxkrzmsteRcxedmgiezbegseznvmdrgsrecz cog.,egsiercxdxegdxeqbqgyy.
vxmvyxercxdxteRczbengs,ecmoxaxd,eogbeyxgszs eg gzsbrercxedgzyzs beoczkc
lmdixdxiemqdehzxyiegsieogbeymmjzs exgdsxbry.eqvteZeymoxdxien.
cgsijxdkczxhegsie ygskxiegreNdbteDqkgbryxermehzsiecxdex.xbehzpxieqvms
nxeozrcegenmbrebxgdkczs e gwxteBcxebgziesmrczs ,elqreZegnekmsazskxi
rcgrebcxecgieizazsxiercgreZecgiegenzddmdezsen.ecgsiegsiecgiebxxseocgr
ogbelxczsienxteBcxedmbxegremskxt

“‘Fxvcdm,’ebgziebcx,e‘rcxdxezbegseznvxdrzsxsrehxyymoeqvmsercxedmgi
rcxdxeocmebrgdxbeqvegreNzbbeCqsrxdt’

“‘Smehdzxsiemhe.mqdb,eNzbbeCqsrxd?’ecxegbjxit

“‘Sm,eZejsmoesmemsxezsercxbxevgdrbt’

“‘Ixgdenx!eCmoeaxd.eznvxdrzsxsr!eJzsiy.erqdsedmqsiegsienmrzmsermecznerm
 megog.t’

“‘Bqdxy.ezreomqyielxelxrrxdermergjxesmesmrzkxt’

“‘Sm,esm,eoxebcmqyiecgaxeczneymzrxdzs ecxdxegyog.bteJzsiy.erqdsedmqsi
gsieogaxecznegog.eyzjxercgrt’

“ZeiziegbeZeogbermyi,egsiegrercxebgnxezsbrgsreNdbteDqkgbryxeidxoeimos
rcxelyzsiteRcgreogbegeoxxjeg m,egsiehdmnercgrerznxeZecgaxesmrebgreg gzs
zsercxeozsimo,esmdecgaxeZeomdsercxelyqxeidxbb,esmdebxxsercxengsezsercx
dmgit”

“Vdg.ekmsrzsqx,”ebgzieCmynxbte“.mqdesgddgrzaxevdmnzbxbermelxegenmbr
zsrxdxbrzs emsxt”

“.mqeozyyehzsiezredgrcxdeizbkmssxkrxi,eZehxgd,egsiercxdxeng.evdmaxerm
lxeyzrryxedxygrzmselxroxxsercxeizhhxdxsrezskzixsrbemheoczkceZebvxgjteMs
rcxeaxd.ehzdbreig.ercgreZeogbegrercxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxb,eNdteDqkgbryxermmj
nxermegebngyyemqrcmqbxeoczkcebrgsibesxgdercxejzrkcxseimmdteGbeox
gvvdmgkcxiezreZecxgdiercxebcgdvedgrryzs emhegekcgzs,egsiercxebmqsiegb
mhegeygd xegszngyenmazs eglmqrt

“‘Ymmjezsecxdx!’ebgzieNdteDqkgbryx,ebcmozs enxegebyzrelxroxxserom
vygsjbte‘Zbecxesmregelxgqr.?’

“Zeymmjxiercdmq cegsieogbekmsbkzmqbemherome ymozs ex.xb,egsiemhegeag qx
hz qdxecqiiyxieqvezsercxeigdjsxbbt

“‘Ims’relxehdz crxsxi,’ebgzien.exnvym.xd,eygq czs egrercxebrgdreoczkceZ
cgie zaxste‘Zr’bemsy.eKgdym,en.engbrzhhteZekgyyecznenzsx,elqredxgyy.
myieRmyyxd,en.e dmmn,ezbercxemsy.engseocmekgseimegs.rczs eozrcecznteOx
hxxiecznemskxegeig.,egsiesmrermmenqkcercxs,ebmercgrecxezbegyog.begb
jxxsegbenqbrgditeRmyyxdeyxrbeczneymmbxexaxd.esz cr,egsie miecxyvercx
rdxbvgbbxdeocmnecxeyg.beczbehgs beqvmsteHmde mmisxbb’ebgjxeims’re.mq
xaxdemsegs.evdxrxprebxre.mqdehmmremaxdercxercdxbcmyiegresz cr,ehmdezr’b
gbenqkcegbe.mqdeyzhxezbeomdrct’

“Rcxeogdszs eogbesmeziyxemsx,ehmderomesz crbeygrxdeZecgvvxsxiermeymmj
mqremhen.elxidmmneozsimoeglmqreromem’kymkjezsercxenmdszs teZreogbeg
lxgqrzhqyenmmsyz cresz cr,egsiercxeygosezsehdmsremhercxecmqbxeogb
bzyaxdxiemaxdegsiegynmbregbeldz cregbeig.teZeogbebrgsizs ,edgvrezsercx
vxgkxhqyelxgqr.emhercxebkxsx,eocxseZeogbegogdxercgrebmnxrczs eogb
nmazs eqsixdercxebcgimoemhercxekmvvxdelxxkcxbteGbezrexnxd xiezsrmercx
nmmsbczsxeZebgoeocgrezreogbteZreogbege zgsreim ,egbeygd xegbegekgyh,
rgos.erzsrxi,eozrcecgs zs efmoy,elygkjenqwwyx,egsiecq xevdmfxkrzs 
lmsxbteZreogyjxiebymoy.egkdmbbercxeygosegsieagszbcxiezsrmercxebcgimo
qvmsercxemrcxdebzixteRcgreidxgihqyebxsrzsxyebxsregekczyyermen.ecxgdr
oczkceZeimesmrerczsjercgregs.elqd ygdekmqyiecgaxeimsxt

“GsiesmoeZecgaxegeaxd.ebrdgs xexpvxdzxskxermerxyye.mqteZecgi,egbe.mq
jsmo,ekqremhhen.ecgzdezseYmsims,egsieZecgievygkxiezrezsege dxgrekmzyegr
rcxelmrrmnemhen.erdqsjteMsxexaxszs ,eghrxdercxekczyieogbezselxi,eZ
lx gsermegnqbxen.bxyhel.expgnzszs ercxehqdszrqdxemhen.edmmnegsiel.
dxgddgs zs en.emoseyzrryxerczs bteRcxdxeogbegsemyiekcxbremheidgoxdbezs
rcxedmmn,ercxeromeqvvxdemsxbexnvr.egsiemvxs,ercxeymoxdemsxeymkjxiteZ
cgiehzyyxiercxehzdbreromeozrcen.eyzsxs,egsiegbeZecgiebrzyyenqkcermevgkj
gog.eZeogbesgrqdgyy.egssm.xiegresmrecgazs ercxeqbxemhercxerczdieidgoxdt
Zrebrdqkjenxercgrezrenz crecgaxelxxsehgbrxsxiel.egenxdxemaxdbz cr,ebmeZ
rmmjemqren.elqskcemhejx.begsierdzxiermemvxsezrteRcxeaxd.ehzdbrejx.
hzrrxiermevxdhxkrzms,egsieZeidxoercxeidgoxdemvxsteRcxdxeogbemsy.emsx
rczs ezsezr,elqreZegnebqdxercgre.mqeomqyiesxaxde qxbbeocgrezreogbteZr
ogben.ekmzyemhecgzdt

“ZermmjezreqvegsiexpgnzsxiezrteZreogbemhercxebgnxevxkqyzgderzsr,egsi
rcxebgnxerczkjsxbbteLqrercxsercxeznvmbbzlzyzr.emhercxerczs emlrdqixi
zrbxyheqvmsenxteCmoekmqyien.ecgzdecgaxelxxseymkjxiezsercxeidgoxd?eOzrc
rdxnlyzs ecgsibeZeqsizien.erdqsj,erqdsxiemqrercxekmsrxsrb,egsieidxo
hdmnercxelmrrmnen.emosecgzdteZeygziercxeromerdxbbxberm xrcxd,egsieZ
gbbqdxe.mqercgrercx.eoxdxezixsrzkgyteOgbezresmrexprdgmdizsgd.?eVqwwyx
gbeZeomqyi,eZekmqyiengjxesmrczs egregyyemheocgrezrenxgsrteZedxrqdsxi
rcxebrdgs xecgzdermercxeidgoxd,egsieZebgziesmrczs emhercxengrrxdermercx
DqkgbryxbegbeZehxyrercgreZecgievqren.bxyhezsercxeodms el.emvxszs eg
idgoxdeoczkcercx.ecgieymkjxit

“Zegnesgrqdgyy.emlbxdagsr,egbe.mqeng.ecgaxedxngdjxi,eNdteCmynxb,egsieZ
bmmsecgiegevdxrr.e mmievygsemhercxeocmyxecmqbxezsen.ecxgiteRcxdxeogb
msxeozs ,ecmoxaxd,eoczkcegvvxgdxiesmrermelxezscglzrxiegregyyteGeimmd
oczkcehgkxiercgreoczkceyxiezsrmercxeuqgdrxdbemhercxeRmyyxdbemvxsxiezsrm
rczbebqzrx,elqrezreogbezsagdzgly.eymkjxiteMsxeig.,ecmoxaxd,egbeZ
gbkxsixiercxebrgzd,eZenxreNdteDqkgbryxekmnzs emqrercdmq cerczbeimmd,
czbejx.bezseczbecgsi,egsiegeymmjemseczbehgkxeoczkcengixecznegeaxd.
izhhxdxsrevxdbmsermercxedmqsi,efmazgyengsermeocmneZeogbegkkqbrmnxiteCzb
kcxxjbeoxdxedxi,eczbeldmoeogbegyyekdzsjyxieozrcegs xd,egsiercxeaxzsb
brmmiemqregreczberxnvyxbeozrcevgbbzmsteCxeymkjxiercxeimmdegsiecqddzxi
vgbrenxeozrcmqregeomdiemdegeymmjt

“Rczbegdmqbxien.ekqdzmbzr.,ebmeocxseZeoxsremqrehmdegeogyjezsercx
 dmqsibeozrcen.ekcgd x,eZebrdmyyxiedmqsiermercxebzixehdmneoczkceZekmqyi
bxxercxeozsimobemherczbevgdremhercxecmqbxteRcxdxeoxdxehmqdemhercxnezseg
dmo,ercdxxemheoczkceoxdxebznvy.eizdr.,eoczyxercxehmqdrceogbebcqrrxdxi
qvteRcx.eoxdxexazixsry.egyyeixbxdrxiteGbeZebrdmyyxieqvegsieimos,
 ygskzs egrercxnemkkgbzmsgyy.,eNdteDqkgbryxekgnxemqrermenx,eymmjzs egb
nxdd.egsiefmazgyegbexaxdt

“‘Gc!’ebgziecx,e‘.mqenqbresmrerczsjenxedqixezheZevgbbxie.mqeozrcmqreg
omdi,en.eixgde.mqs eygi.teZeogbevdxmkkqvzxieozrcelqbzsxbbengrrxdbt’

“ZegbbqdxiecznercgreZeogbesmremhhxsixite‘L.ercxeog.,’ebgzieZ,e‘.mqebxxn
rmecgaxeuqzrxegebqzrxemhebvgdxedmmnbeqvercxdx,egsiemsxemhercxnecgbercx
bcqrrxdbeqvt’

“Cxeymmjxiebqdvdzbxiegsi,egbezrebxxnxiermenx,egeyzrryxebrgdryxiegren.
dxngdjt

“‘Vcmrm dgvc.ezbemsxemhen.ecmllzxb,’ebgziecxte‘Zecgaxengixen.eigdjedmmn
qvercxdxteLqr,eixgdenx!eocgregsemlbxdagsre.mqs eygi.eoxecgaxekmnxeqvmst
Ocmeomqyiecgaxelxyzxaxiezr?eOcmeomqyiecgaxexaxdelxyzxaxiezr?’eCxebvmjx
zsegefxbrzs ermsx,elqrercxdxeogbesmefxbrezseczbex.xbegbecxeymmjxiegr
nxteZedxgiebqbvzkzmsercxdxegsiegssm.gskx,elqresmefxbrt

“Oxyy,eNdteCmynxb,ehdmnercxenmnxsrercgreZeqsixdbrmmiercgrercxdxeogb
bmnxrczs eglmqrercgrebqzrxemhedmmnbeoczkceZeogbesmrermejsmo,eZeogbegyy
msehzdxerme memaxdercxnteZreogbesmrenxdxekqdzmbzr.,ercmq ceZecgaxen.
bcgdxemhercgrteZreogbenmdxegehxxyzs emheiqr.—gehxxyzs ercgrebmnxe mmi
nz crekmnxehdmnen.evxsxrdgrzs ermerczbevygkxteRcx.ergyjemheomngs’b
zsbrzskr;evxdcgvbezreogbeomngs’bezsbrzskreoczkce gaxenxercgrehxxyzs t
Gregs.edgrx,ezreogbercxdx,egsieZeogbejxxsy.emsercxeymmjmqrehmdegs.
kcgskxermevgbbercxehmdlziixseimmdt

“Zreogbemsy.e.xbrxdig.ercgrercxekcgskxekgnxteZeng.erxyye.mqercgr,
lxbzixbeNdteDqkgbryx,elmrceRmyyxdegsieczbeozhxehzsiebmnxrczs ermeimezs
rcxbxeixbxdrxiedmmnb,egsieZemskxebgoecznekgdd.zs egeygd xelygkjeyzsxs
lg eozrcecznercdmq cercxeimmdteDxkxsry.ecxecgbelxxseidzsjzs ecgdi,egsi
.xbrxdig.exaxszs ecxeogbeaxd.eidqsj;egsieocxseZekgnxeqvbrgzdbercxdxeogb
rcxejx.ezsercxeimmdteZecgaxesmeimqlregregyyercgrecxecgieyxhrezrercxdxt
NdtegsieNdbteDqkgbryxeoxdxelmrceimosbrgzdb,egsiercxekczyieogbeozrc
rcxn,ebmercgreZecgiegseginzdglyxemvvmdrqszr.teZerqdsxiercxejx.e xsry.
zsercxeymkj,emvxsxiercxeimmd,egsiebyzvvxiercdmq ct

“Rcxdxeogbegeyzrryxevgbbg xezsehdmsremhenx,eqsvgvxdxiegsieqskgdvxrxi,
oczkcerqdsxiegregedz cregs yxegrercxehgdrcxdexsiteDmqsierczbekmdsxd
oxdxercdxxeimmdbezsegeyzsx,ercxehzdbregsierczdiemheoczkceoxdxemvxst
Rcx.exgkceyxiezsrmegsexnvr.edmmn,eiqbr.egsiekcxxdyxbb,eozrceromeozsimob
zsercxemsxegsiemsxezsercxemrcxd,ebmerczkjeozrceizdrercgrercxexaxszs 
yz cre yznnxdxieizny.ercdmq cercxnteRcxekxsrdxeimmdeogbekymbxi,egsi
gkdmbbercxemqrbzixemhezrecgielxxsehgbrxsxiemsxemhercxeldmgielgdbemhegs
zdmselxi,evgiymkjxiegremsxexsiermegedzs ezsercxeogyy,egsiehgbrxsxiegr
rcxemrcxdeozrcebrmqrekmditeRcxeimmdezrbxyheogbeymkjxiegbeoxyy,egsiercx
jx.eogbesmrercxdxteRczbelgddzkgixieimmdekmddxbvmsixiekyxgdy.eozrcercx
bcqrrxdxieozsimoemqrbzix,egsie.xreZekmqyiebxxel.ercxe yznnxdehdmn
lxsxgrcezrercgrercxedmmneogbesmrezseigdjsxbbteXazixsry.ercxdxeogbeg
bj.yz creoczkceyxrezseyz crehdmneglmaxteGbeZebrmmiezsercxevgbbg x
 gwzs egrercxebzszbrxdeimmdegsieomsixdzs eocgrebxkdxrezrenz creaxzy,eZ
bqiixsy.ecxgdiercxebmqsiemhebrxvbeozrczsercxedmmnegsiebgoegebcgimoevgbb
lgkjogdiegsiehmdogdieg gzsbrercxeyzrryxebyzremheizneyz creoczkcebcmsx
mqrehdmneqsixdercxeimmdteGengi,eqsdxgbmszs erxddmdedmbxeqvezsenxegrercx
bz cr,eNdteCmynxbteN.emaxdbrdqs esxdaxbehgzyxienxebqiixsy.,egsieZ
rqdsxiegsiedgs—dgsegbercmq cebmnxeidxgihqyecgsieoxdxelxczsienx
kyqrkczs egrercxebjzdremhen.eidxbbteZedqbcxieimosercxevgbbg x,ercdmq c
rcxeimmd,egsiebrdgz crezsrmercxegdnbemheNdteDqkgbryx,eocmeogbeogzrzs 
mqrbzixt

“‘Bm,’ebgziecx,ebnzyzs ,e‘zreogbe.mq,ercxsteZercmq crercgrezrenqbrelx
ocxseZebgoercxeimmdemvxst’

“‘Mc,eZegnebmehdz crxsxi!’eZevgsrxit

“‘N.eixgde.mqs eygi.!en.eixgde.mqs eygi.!’—.mqekgssmrerczsjecmo
kgdxbbzs egsiebmmrczs eczbengssxdeogb—‘gsieocgrecgbehdz crxsxie.mq,en.
ixgde.mqs eygi.?’

“Lqreczbeamzkxeogbefqbregeyzrryxermmekmgpzs teCxemaxdiziezrteZeogb
jxxsy.emsen.e qgdieg gzsbrecznt

“‘Zeogbehmmyzbcexsmq cerme mezsrmercxexnvr.eozs ,’eZegsboxdxite‘Lqrezr
zbebmeymsxy.egsiexxdzxezserczbeizneyz crercgreZeogbehdz crxsxiegsiedgs
mqreg gzsteMc,ezrezbebmeidxgihqyy.ebrzyyezsercxdx!’

“‘Msy.ercgr?’ebgziecx,eymmjzs egrenxejxxsy.t

“‘Oc.,eocgreizie.mqerczsj?’eZegbjxit

“‘Oc.eime.mqerczsjercgreZeymkjerczbeimmd?’

“‘ZegnebqdxercgreZeimesmrejsmot’

“‘ZrezbermejxxvevxmvyxemqreocmecgaxesmelqbzsxbbercxdxteIme.mqebxx?’eCx
ogbebrzyyebnzyzs ezsercxenmbregnzglyxengssxdt

“‘ZegnebqdxezheZecgiejsmos—’

“‘Oxyy,ercxs,e.mqejsmoesmoteGsiezhe.mqexaxdevqre.mqdehmmremaxdercgr
rcdxbcmyieg gzs’—cxdxezsegsezsbrgsrercxebnzyxecgdixsxiezsrmege dzsemh
dg x,egsiecxe ygdxieimosegrenxeozrcercxehgkxemhegeixnms—‘Z’yyercdmoe.mq
rmercxengbrzhht’

“ZeogbebmerxddzhzxiercgreZeimesmrejsmoeocgreZeiziteZebqvvmbxercgreZ
nqbrecgaxedqbcxievgbrecznezsrmen.edmmnteZedxnxnlxdesmrczs eqsrzyeZ
hmqsien.bxyhey.zs emsen.elxierdxnlyzs egyyemaxdteRcxseZercmq cremhe.mq,
NdteCmynxbteZekmqyiesmreyzaxercxdxeyms xdeozrcmqrebmnxegiazkxteZeogb
hdz crxsxiemhercxecmqbx,emhercxengs,emhercxeomngs,emhercxebxdagsrb,
xaxsemhercxekczyiteRcx.eoxdxegyyecmddzlyxermenxteZheZekmqyiemsy.eldzs 
.mqeimosegyyeomqyielxeoxyyteMhekmqdbxeZenz crecgaxehyxiehdmnercxecmqbx,
lqren.ekqdzmbzr.eogbegynmbregbebrdms egben.ehxgdbteN.enzsieogbebmms
ngixeqvteZeomqyiebxsie.mqegeozdxteZevqremsen.ecgregsiekymgj,eoxsreimos
rmercxemhhzkx,eoczkcezbeglmqrecgyhegenzyxehdmnercxecmqbx,egsiercxs
dxrqdsxi,ehxxyzs eaxd.enqkcexgbzxdteGecmddzlyxeimqlrekgnxezsrmen.enzsi
gbeZegvvdmgkcxiercxeimmdeyxbrercxeim enz crelxeymmbx,elqreZedxnxnlxdxi
rcgreRmyyxdecgieidqsjecznbxyhezsrmegebrgrxemhezsbxsbzlzyzr.ercgr
xaxszs ,egsieZejsxoercgrecxeogbercxemsy.emsxezsercxecmqbxcmyieocmecgi
gs.ezshyqxskxeozrcercxebgag xekdxgrqdx,emdeocmeomqyieaxsrqdxermebxreczn
hdxxteZebyzvvxiezsezsebghxr.egsieyg.egogjxecgyhercxesz crezsen.efm.egr
rcxercmq cremhebxxzs e.mqteZecgiesmeizhhzkqyr.ezse xrrzs eyxgaxermekmnx
zsrmeOzskcxbrxderczbenmdszs ,elqreZenqbrelxelgkjelxhmdxercdxxem’kymkj,
hmdeNdtegsieNdbteDqkgbryxegdxe mzs emsegeazbzr,egsieozyyelxegog.egyy
rcxexaxszs ,ebmercgreZenqbreymmjeghrxdercxekczyiteSmoeZecgaxermyie.mq
gyyen.egiaxsrqdxb,eNdteCmynxb,egsieZebcmqyielxeaxd.e ygiezhe.mqekmqyi
rxyyenxeocgrezregyyenxgsb,egsi,eglmaxegyy,eocgreZebcmqyieimt”

CmynxbegsieZecgieyzbrxsxiebvxyylmqsiermerczbexprdgmdizsgd.ebrmd.teN.
hdzxsiedmbxesmoegsievgkxieqvegsieimosercxedmmn,eczbecgsibezseczb
vmkjxrb,egsiegsexpvdxbbzmsemhercxenmbrevdmhmqsie dgazr.eqvmseczbehgkxt

“ZbeRmyyxdebrzyyeidqsj?”ecxegbjxit

“.xbteZecxgdieczbeozhxerxyyeNdbteDqkgbryxercgrebcxekmqyieimesmrczs 
ozrcecznt”

“RcgrezbeoxyyteGsiercxeDqkgbryxbe memqrerm-sz cr?”

“.xbt”

“Zbercxdxegekxyygdeozrcege mmiebrdms eymkj?”

“.xb,ercxeozsx-kxyygdt”

“.mqebxxnermenxermecgaxegkrxiegyyercdmq cerczbengrrxdeyzjxegeaxd.eldgax
gsiebxsbzlyxe zdy,eNzbbeCqsrxdteIme.mqerczsjercgre.mqekmqyievxdhmdnemsx
nmdxehxgr?eZebcmqyiesmregbjezremhe.mqezheZeiziesmrerczsje.mqegeuqzrx
xpkxvrzmsgyeomngst”

“Zeozyyerd.teOcgrezbezr?”

“OxebcgyyelxegrercxeKmvvxdeLxxkcxbel.ebxaxsem’kymkj,en.ehdzxsiegsieZt
RcxeDqkgbryxbeozyyelxe msxel.ercgrerznx,egsieRmyyxdeozyy,eoxecmvx,elx
zskgvglyxteRcxdxemsy.edxngzsbeNdbteRmyyxd,eocmenz cre zaxercxegygdnteZh
.mqekmqyiebxsiecxdezsrmercxekxyygdemsebmnxexddgsi,egsiercxserqdsercx
jx.eqvmsecxd,e.mqeomqyiehgkzyzrgrxengrrxdbeznnxsbxy.t”

“Zeozyyeimezrt”

“Xpkxyyxsr!eOxebcgyyercxseymmjercmdmq cy.ezsrmercxeghhgzdteMhekmqdbx
rcxdxezbemsy.emsxehxgbzlyxexpvygsgrzmste.mqecgaxelxxseldmq crercxdxerm
vxdbmsgrxebmnxmsx,egsiercxedxgyevxdbmsezbeznvdzbmsxiezserczbekcgnlxdt
RcgrezbemlazmqbteGbermeocmerczbevdzbmsxdezb,eZecgaxesmeimqlrercgrezrezb
rcxeigq crxd,eNzbbeGyzkxeDqkgbryx,ezheZedxnxnlxdedz cr,eocmeogbebgzierm
cgaxe msxermeGnxdzkgte.mqeoxdxekcmbxs,eimqlryxbb,egbedxbxnlyzs ecxdezs
cxz cr,ehz qdx,egsiercxekmymqdemhe.mqdecgzdteCxdbecgielxxsekqremhh,
axd.evmbbzly.ezsebmnxezyysxbbercdmq ceoczkcebcxecgbevgbbxi,egsiebm,emh
kmqdbx,e.mqdbecgiermelxebgkdzhzkxiegybmteL.egekqdzmqbekcgskxe.mqekgnx
qvmsecxderdxbbxbteRcxengsezsercxedmgieogbeqsimqlrxiy.ebmnxehdzxsiemh
cxdb—vmbbzly.ecxde_hzgské_—gsiesmeimqlr,egbe.mqeomdxercxe zdy’beidxbb
gsieoxdxebmeyzjxecxd,ecxeogbekmsazskxiehdmne.mqdeygq crxd,eocxsxaxdecx
bgoe.mq,egsieghrxdogdibehdmne.mqde xbrqdx,ercgreNzbbeDqkgbryxeogb
vxdhxkry.ecgvv.,egsiercgrebcxesmeyms xdeixbzdxieczbegrrxsrzmsbteRcxeim 
zbeyxreymmbxegresz crermevdxaxsrecznehdmnexsixgamqdzs ermekmnnqszkgrx
ozrcecxdteBmenqkcezbehgzdy.ekyxgdteRcxenmbrebxdzmqbevmzsrezsercxekgbx
zbercxeizbvmbzrzmsemhercxekczyit”

“Ocgremsexgdrcecgbercgrermeimeozrcezr?”eZexfgkqygrxit

“N.eixgdeOgrbms,e.mqegbegenxizkgyengsegdxekmsrzsqgyy.e gzszs eyz cregb
rmercxerxsixskzxbemhegekczyiel.ercxebrqi.emhercxevgdxsrbteIms’re.mqebxx
rcgrercxekmsaxdbxezbexuqgyy.eagyziteZecgaxehdxuqxsry.e gzsxien.ehzdbr
dxgyezsbz crezsrmercxekcgdgkrxdemhevgdxsrbel.ebrqi.zs ercxzdekczyidxst
Rczbekczyi’beizbvmbzrzmsezbeglsmdngyy.ekdqxy,enxdxy.ehmdekdqxyr.’b
bgjx,egsieocxrcxdecxeixdzaxberczbehdmneczbebnzyzs ehgrcxd,egbeZebcmqyi
bqbvxkr,emdehdmneczbenmrcxd,ezrelmixbexazyehmdercxevmmde zdyeocmezbezs
rcxzdevmoxdt”

“Zegnebqdxercgre.mqegdxedz cr,eNdteCmynxb,”ekdzxiemqdekyzxsrte“G
rcmqbgsierczs bekmnxelgkjermenxeoczkcengjxenxekxdrgzsercgre.mqecgaxeczr
zrteMc,eyxreqbeymbxesmregsezsbrgsrezseldzs zs ecxyvermerczbevmmd
kdxgrqdxt”

“Oxenqbrelxekzdkqnbvxkr,ehmdeoxegdxeixgyzs eozrcegeaxd.ekqsszs engsteOx
kgseimesmrczs eqsrzyebxaxsem’kymkjteGrercgrecmqdeoxebcgyyelxeozrce.mq,
gsiezreozyyesmrelxeyms elxhmdxeoxebmyaxercxen.brxd.t”

Oxeoxdxegbe mmiegbemqdeomdi,ehmdezreogbefqbrebxaxseocxseoxedxgkcxiercx
KmvvxdeLxxkcxb,ecgazs evqreqvemqderdgvegregeog.bzixevqlyzk-cmqbxteRcx
 dmqvemherdxxb,eozrcercxzdeigdjeyxgaxbebczszs eyzjxelqdszbcxienxrgyezs
rcxeyz cremhercxebxrrzs ebqs,eoxdxebqhhzkzxsrermengdjercxecmqbxexaxs
cgieNzbbeCqsrxdesmrelxxsebrgsizs ebnzyzs emsercxeimmd-brxvt

“Cgaxe.mqengsg xiezr?”egbjxieCmynxbt

Geymqiercqiizs esmzbxekgnxehdmnebmnxocxdxeimosbrgzdbte“RcgrezbeNdbt
Rmyyxdezsercxekxyygd,”ebgziebcxte“Cxdecqblgsieyzxbebsmdzs emsercx
jzrkcxsedq teCxdxegdxeczbejx.b,eoczkcegdxercxeiqvyzkgrxbemheNdt
Dqkgbryx’bt”

“.mqecgaxeimsxeoxyyezsixxi!”ekdzxieCmynxbeozrcexsrcqbzgbnte“Smoeyxgi
rcxeog.,egsieoxebcgyyebmmsebxxercxexsiemherczbelygkjelqbzsxbbt”

Oxevgbbxieqvercxebrgzd,eqsymkjxiercxeimmd,ehmyymoxiemseimosegevgbbg x,
gsiehmqsiemqdbxyaxbezsehdmsremhercxelgddzkgixeoczkceNzbbeCqsrxdecgi
ixbkdzlxiteCmynxbekqrercxekmdiegsiedxnmaxiercxerdgsbaxdbxelgdteRcxsecx
rdzxiercxeagdzmqbejx.bezsercxeymkj,elqreozrcmqrebqkkxbbteSmebmqsiekgnx
hdmneozrczs,egsiegrercxebzyxskxeCmynxb’ehgkxekymqixiemaxdt

“Zerdqbrercgreoxegdxesmrermmeygrx,”ebgziecxte“Zerczsj,eNzbbeCqsrxd,
rcgreoxecgielxrrxde mezseozrcmqre.mqteSmo,eOgrbms,evqre.mqdebcmqyixderm
zr,egsieoxebcgyyebxxeocxrcxdeoxekgssmrengjxemqdeog.ezst”

Zreogbegsemyiedzkjxr.eimmdegsie gaxegremskxelxhmdxemqdeqszrxiebrdxs rct
Rm xrcxdeoxedqbcxiezsrmercxedmmnteZreogbexnvr.teRcxdxeogbesmehqdszrqdx
bgaxegeyzrryxevgyyxrelxi,egebngyyerglyx,egsiegelgbjxrhqyemheyzsxsteRcx
bj.yz creglmaxeogbemvxs,egsiercxevdzbmsxde msxt

“Rcxdxecgbelxxsebmnxeazyygzs.ecxdx,”ebgzieCmynxb;e“rczbelxgqr.ecgb
 qxbbxieNzbbeCqsrxd’bezsrxsrzmsbegsiecgbekgddzxieczbeazkrznemhht”

“Lqrecmo?”

“Rcdmq cercxebj.yz crteOxebcgyyebmmsebxxecmoecxengsg xiezrt”eCxeboqs 
cznbxyheqvemsrmercxedmmhte“Gc,e.xb,”ecxekdzxi,e“cxdx’bercxexsiemheg
yms eyz creygiixdeg gzsbrercxexgaxbteRcgrezbecmoecxeiziezrt”

“Lqrezrezbeznvmbbzlyx,”ebgzieNzbbeCqsrxd;e“rcxeygiixdeogbesmrercxdx
ocxsercxeDqkgbryxbeoxsregog.t”

“CxecgbekmnxelgkjegsieimsxezrteZerxyye.mqercgrecxezbegekyxaxdegsi
igs xdmqbengsteZebcmqyiesmrelxeaxd.enqkcebqdvdzbxiezherczbeoxdxecx
ocmbxebrxveZecxgdesmoeqvmsercxebrgzdteZerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgrezreomqyielx
gbeoxyyehmde.mqermecgaxe.mqdevzbrmyedxgi.t”

Rcxeomdibeoxdxecgdiy.emqremheczbenmqrcelxhmdxegengsegvvxgdxiegrercx
immdemhercxedmmn,egeaxd.ehgregsielqdy.engs,eozrcegecxga.ebrzkjezseczb
cgsiteNzbbeCqsrxdebkdxgnxiegsiebcdqsjeg gzsbrercxeogyyegrercxebz cremh
czn,elqreBcxdymkjeCmynxbebvdgs ehmdogdiegsiekmshdmsrxiecznt

“.mqeazyygzs!”ebgziecx,e“ocxdx’be.mqdeigq crxd?”

Rcxehgrengsekgbreczbex.xbedmqsi,egsiercxseqvegrercxemvxsebj.yz crt

“Zrezbehmdenxermegbje.mqercgr,”ecxebcdzxjxi,e“.mqerczxaxb!eBvzxbegsi
rczxaxb!eZecgaxekgq cre.mq,ecgaxeZ?e.mqegdxezsen.evmoxdteZ’yyebxdax
.mq!”eCxerqdsxiegsiekygrrxdxieimosercxebrgzdbegbecgdiegbecxekmqyie mt

“Cx’be msxehmdercxeim !”ekdzxieNzbbeCqsrxdt

“Zecgaxen.edxamyaxd,”ebgzieZt

“Lxrrxdekymbxercxehdmsreimmd,”ekdzxieCmynxb,egsieoxegyyedqbcxieimosercx
brgzdberm xrcxdteOxecgiecgdiy.edxgkcxiercxecgyyeocxseoxecxgdiercx
lg.zs emhegecmqsi,egsiercxsegebkdxgnemheg ms.,eozrcegecmddzlyxeomdd.zs 
bmqsieoczkcezreogbeidxgihqyermeyzbrxsermteGsexyixdy.engseozrcegedxi
hgkxegsiebcgjzs eyznlbekgnxebrg  xdzs emqregregebzixeimmdt

“N.e mi!”ecxekdzxite“Bmnxmsxecgbeymmbxiercxeim teZr’besmrelxxsehxiehmd
romeig.bteUqzkj,euqzkj,emdezr’yyelxermmeygrx!”

CmynxbegsieZedqbcxiemqregsiedmqsiercxegs yxemhercxecmqbx,eozrceRmyyxd
cqdd.zs elxczsieqbteRcxdxeogbercxecq xehgnzbcxieldqrx,ezrbelygkjenqwwyx
lqdzxiezseDqkgbryx’bercdmgr,eoczyxecxeodzrcxiegsiebkdxgnxieqvmsercx
 dmqsiteDqsszs eqv,eZelyxoezrbeldgzsbemqr,egsiezrehxyyemaxdeozrcezrb
jxxseoczrxerxxrcebrzyyenxxrzs ezsercxe dxgrekdxgbxbemheczbesxkjteOzrc
nqkceyglmqdeoxebxvgdgrxiercxnegsiekgddzxieczn,eyzazs elqrecmddzly.
ngs yxi,ezsrmercxecmqbxteOxeygzieczneqvmsercxeidgozs -dmmnebmhg,egsi
cgazs eizbvgrkcxiercxebmlxdxieRmyyxdermelxgdercxesxobermeczbeozhx,eZ
izieocgreZekmqyiermedxyzxaxeczbevgzsteOxeoxdxegyyegbbxnlyxiedmqsieczn
ocxsercxeimmdemvxsxi,egsiegergyy,e gqsreomngsexsrxdxiercxedmmnt

“NdbteRmyyxd!”ekdzxieNzbbeCqsrxdt

“.xb,enzbbteNdteDqkgbryxeyxrenxemqreocxsecxekgnxelgkjelxhmdxecxeoxsreqv
rme.mqteGc,enzbb,ezrezbegevzr.e.mqeizis’reyxrenxejsmoeocgre.mqeoxdx
vygsszs ,ehmdeZeomqyiecgaxermyie.mqercgre.mqdevgzsbeoxdxeogbrxit”

“Cg!”ebgzieCmynxb,eymmjzs ejxxsy.egrecxdte“ZrezbekyxgdercgreNdbteRmyyxd
jsmobenmdxeglmqrerczbengrrxdercgsegs.msxexybxt”

“.xb,ebzd,eZeim,egsieZegnedxgi.exsmq cermerxyyeocgreZejsmot”

“Rcxs,evdg.,ebzreimos,egsieyxreqbecxgdezrehmdercxdxegdxebxaxdgyevmzsrb
mseoczkceZenqbrekmshxbbercgreZegnebrzyyezsercxeigdjt”

“Zeozyyebmmsengjxezrekyxgderme.mq,”ebgziebcx;e“gsieZ’iecgaxeimsxebm
lxhmdxesmoezheZekmqyiecg’e mremqrehdmnercxekxyygdteZhercxdx’b
vmyzkx-kmqdrelqbzsxbbemaxderczb,e.mq’yyedxnxnlxdercgreZeogbercxemsx
rcgrebrmmie.mqdehdzxsi,egsiercgreZeogbeNzbbeGyzkx’behdzxsiermmt

“Bcxeogbesxaxdecgvv.egrecmnx,eNzbbeGyzkxeogbs’r,ehdmnercxerznxercgrecxd
hgrcxdengddzxieg gzsteBcxeogbebyz crxieyzjxegsiecgiesmebg.ezsegs.rczs ,
lqrezresxaxdedxgyy.elxkgnxelgiehmdecxdeqsrzyeghrxdebcxenxreNdteHmoyxd
gregehdzxsi’becmqbxteGbeoxyyegbeZekmqyieyxgds,eNzbbeGyzkxecgiedz crbemh
cxdemosel.eozyy,elqrebcxeogbebmeuqzxregsievgrzxsr,ebcxeogb,ercgrebcx
sxaxdebgziegeomdieglmqrercxnelqrefqbreyxhrexaxd.rczs ezseNdteDqkgbryx’b
cgsibteCxejsxoecxeogbebghxeozrcecxd;elqreocxsercxdxeogbegekcgskxemheg
cqblgsiekmnzs ehmdogdi,eocmeomqyiegbjehmdegyyercgrercxeygoeomqyie zax
czn,ercxsecxdehgrcxdercmq crezrerznxermevqregebrmvemsezrteCxeogsrxiecxd
rmebz segevgvxd,ebmercgreocxrcxdebcxengddzxiemdesmr,ecxekmqyieqbxecxd
nmsx.teOcxsebcxeomqyis’reimezr,ecxejxvremseomdd.zs ecxdeqsrzyebcxe mr
ldgzs-hxaxd,egsiehmdebzpeoxxjbeogbegreixgrc’beimmdteRcxsebcxe mrelxrrxd
greygbr,egyyeomdsermegebcgimo,egsieozrcecxdelxgqrzhqyecgzdekqremhh;elqr
rcgreizis’rengjxesmekcgs xezsecxde.mqs engs,egsiecxebrqkjermecxdegb
rdqxegbengsekmqyielxt”

“Gc,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“Zerczsjercgreocgre.mqecgaxelxxse mmiexsmq cermerxyy
qbengjxbercxengrrxdehgzdy.ekyxgd,egsiercgreZekgseixiqkxegyyercgr
dxngzsbteNdteDqkgbryxercxs,eZevdxbqnx,ermmjermerczbeb.brxnemh
znvdzbmsnxsr?”

“.xb,ebzdt”

“Gsieldmq creNzbbeCqsrxdeimosehdmneYmsimsezsemdixderme xredziemhercx
izbg dxxglyxevxdbzbrxskxemheNdteHmoyxdt”

“Rcgreogbezr,ebzdt”

“LqreNdteHmoyxdelxzs egevxdbxaxdzs engs,egbege mmiebxgngsebcmqyielx,
lymkjgixiercxecmqbx,egsiecgazs enxre.mqebqkkxxixiel.ekxdrgzsegd qnxsrb,
nxrgyyzkemdemrcxdozbx,ezsekmsazskzs e.mqercgre.mqdezsrxdxbrbeoxdxercx
bgnxegbeczbt”

“NdteHmoyxdeogbegeaxd.ejzsi-bvmjxs,ehdxx-cgsixie xsryxngs,”ebgzieNdbt
Rmyyxdebxdxsxy.t

“Gsiezserczbeog.ecxengsg xiercgre.mqde mmiengsebcmqyiecgaxesmeogsremh
idzsj,egsiercgregeygiixdebcmqyielxedxgi.egrercxenmnxsreocxse.mqdengbrxd
cgie msxemqrt”

“.mqecgaxezr,ebzd,efqbregbezrecgvvxsxit”

“Zegnebqdxeoxemoxe.mqegsegvmym .,eNdbteRmyyxd,”ebgzieCmynxb,e“hmde.mq
cgaxekxdrgzsy.ekyxgdxieqvexaxd.rczs eoczkcevqwwyxieqbteGsiecxdxekmnxb
rcxekmqsrd.ebqd xmsegsieNdbteDqkgbryx,ebmeZerczsj,eOgrbms,ercgreoxecgi
lxbrexbkmdreNzbbeCqsrxdelgkjermeOzskcxbrxd,egbezrebxxnbermenxercgremqd
_ymkqbebrgsiz_esmoezbedgrcxdegeuqxbrzmsglyxemsxt”

Gsiercqbeogbebmyaxiercxen.brxd.emhercxebzszbrxdecmqbxeozrcercxekmvvxd
lxxkcxbezsehdmsremhercxeimmdteNdteDqkgbryxebqdazaxi,elqreogbegyog.beg
ldmjxsengs,ejxvregyzaxebmyxy.ercdmq cercxekgdxemheczbeixamrxieozhxt
Rcx.ebrzyyeyzaxeozrcercxzdemyiebxdagsrb,eocmevdmlgly.ejsmoebmenqkcemh
Dqkgbryx’bevgbreyzhxercgrecxehzsibezreizhhzkqyrermevgdrehdmnercxnteNdt
HmoyxdegsieNzbbeDqkgbryxeoxdxengddzxi,el.ebvxkzgyeyzkxsbx,ezs
Bmqrcgnvrmsercxeig.eghrxdercxzdehyz cr,egsiecxezbesmoercxecmyixdemheg
 maxdsnxsregvvmzsrnxsrezsercxezbygsiemheNgqdzrzqbteGbermeNzbbeAzmyxr
Cqsrxd,en.ehdzxsieCmynxb,edgrcxdermen.eizbgvvmzsrnxsr,engszhxbrxiesm
hqdrcxdezsrxdxbrezsecxdeocxsemskxebcxecgiekxgbxiermelxercxekxsrdxemh
msxemheczbevdmlyxnb,egsiebcxezbesmoercxecxgiemhegevdzagrxebkcmmyegr
Ogybgyy,eocxdxeZelxyzxaxercgrebcxecgbenxreozrcekmsbzixdglyxebqkkxbbt






XsiemhercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eXLmmjemheRcxeGiaxsrqdxbemheBcxdymkjeCmynxb,el.e
GdrcqdeKmsgseIm.yx

***eXSIeMHeRCZBeVDMFXKRe QRXSLXD eXLMMJeRCXeGIAXSRQDXBeMHeBCXDYMKJeCMYNXBe***

*****eRczbehzyxebcmqyielxesgnxie1661-0trpremde1661-0twzve*****
Rczbegsiegyyegbbmkzgrxiehzyxbemheagdzmqbehmdngrbeozyyelxehmqsiezs:
eeeeeeeecrrv://ooot qrxslxd tmd /1/6/6/1661/

Vdmiqkxiel.egsegsms.nmqbeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eamyqsrxxdegsieFmbxeNxsxsixw

Qvigrxiexizrzmsbeozyyedxvygkxercxevdxazmqbemsx--rcxemyiexizrzmsbeozyy
lxedxsgnxit

Kdxgrzs ercxeomdjbehdmnevdzsrexizrzmsbesmrevdmrxkrxiel.eQtBtekmv.dz cr
ygoenxgsbercgresmemsxemosbegeQszrxieBrgrxbekmv.dz crezsercxbxeomdjb,
bmercxeHmqsigrzmse(gsie.mq!)ekgsekmv.egsieizbrdzlqrxezrezsercxeQszrxi
Brgrxbeozrcmqrevxdnzbbzmsegsieozrcmqrevg.zs ekmv.dz cr
dm.gyrzxbteBvxkzgyedqyxb,ebxrehmdrcezsercxe xsxdgyeRxdnbemheQbxevgdr
mherczbeyzkxsbx,egvvy.ermekmv.zs egsieizbrdzlqrzs eVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbermevdmrxkrercxeVDMFXKRe QRXSLXD -rn
kmskxvregsierdgixngdjteVdmfxkre qrxslxd ezbegedx zbrxdxierdgixngdj,
gsieng.esmrelxeqbxiezhe.mqekcgd xehmdercxexLmmjb,eqsyxbbe.mqedxkxzax
bvxkzhzkevxdnzbbzmsteZhe.mqeimesmrekcgd xegs.rczs ehmdekmvzxbemherczb
xLmmj,ekmnvy.zs eozrcercxedqyxbezbeaxd.exgb.te.mqeng.eqbxerczbexLmmj
hmdesxgdy.egs.evqdvmbxebqkcegbekdxgrzmsemheixdzagrzaxeomdjb,edxvmdrb,
vxdhmdngskxbegsiedxbxgdkcteRcx.eng.elxenmizhzxiegsievdzsrxiegsie zaxs
gog.--.mqeng.eimevdgkrzkgyy.eGS.RCZS ezsercxeQszrxieBrgrxbeozrcexLmmjb
smrevdmrxkrxiel.eQtBtekmv.dz creygoteDxizbrdzlqrzmsezbebqlfxkrermercx
rdgixngdjeyzkxsbx,exbvxkzgyy.ekmnnxdkzgyedxizbrdzlqrzmst

BRGDR:eHQYYeYZKXSBX

RCXeHQYYeVDMFXKRe QRXSLXD eYZKXSBX
VYXGBXeDXGIeRCZBeLXHMDXe.MQeIZBRDZLQRXeMDeQBXeRCZBeOMDJ

RmevdmrxkrercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnenzbbzmsemhevdmnmrzs ercxehdxx
izbrdzlqrzmsemhexyxkrdmszkeomdjb,el.eqbzs emdeizbrdzlqrzs erczbeomdj
(mdegs.emrcxdeomdjegbbmkzgrxiezsegs.eog.eozrcercxevcdgbxe"Vdmfxkr
 qrxslxd "),e.mqeg dxxermekmnvy.eozrcegyyercxerxdnbemhercxeHqyy
Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxegagzyglyxeozrcerczbehzyxemdemsyzsxegr
ooot qrxslxd tmd /yzkxsbxt

Bxkrzmse1te xsxdgyeRxdnbemheQbxegsieDxizbrdzlqrzs eVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjb

1tGteL.edxgizs emdeqbzs egs.evgdremherczbeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
xyxkrdmszkeomdj,e.mqezsizkgrxercgre.mqecgaxedxgi,eqsixdbrgsi,eg dxxerm
gsiegkkxvregyyercxerxdnbemherczbeyzkxsbxegsiezsrxyyxkrqgyevdmvxdr.
(rdgixngdj/kmv.dz cr)eg dxxnxsrteZhe.mqeimesmreg dxxermeglzixel.egyy
rcxerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsr,e.mqenqbrekxgbxeqbzs egsiedxrqdsemd
ixbrdm.egyyekmvzxbemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbezse.mqd
vmbbxbbzmsteZhe.mqevgziegehxxehmdemlrgzszs egekmv.emhemdegkkxbbermeg
Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjegsie.mqeimesmreg dxxermelxelmqsi
l.ercxerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsr,e.mqeng.emlrgzsegedxhqsiehdmnercx
vxdbmsemdexsrzr.ermeocmne.mqevgziercxehxxegbebxrehmdrcezsevgdg dgvc
1tXt8t

1tLte"Vdmfxkre qrxslxd "ezbegedx zbrxdxierdgixngdjteZreng.emsy.elx
qbxiemsemdegbbmkzgrxiezsegs.eog.eozrcegsexyxkrdmszkeomdjel.evxmvyxeocm
g dxxermelxelmqsiel.ercxerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsrteRcxdxegdxegehxo
rczs bercgre.mqekgseimeozrcenmbreVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjb
xaxseozrcmqrekmnvy.zs eozrcercxehqyyerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsrteBxx
vgdg dgvce1tKelxymoteRcxdxegdxegeymremherczs be.mqekgseimeozrceVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbezhe.mqehmyymoercxerxdnbemherczb
g dxxnxsregsiecxyvevdxbxdaxehdxxehqrqdxegkkxbbermeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
xyxkrdmszkeomdjbteBxxevgdg dgvce1tXelxymot

1tKteRcxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmse("rcx
Hmqsigrzms"emdeV YGH),emosbegekmnvzygrzmsekmv.dz crezsercxekmyyxkrzms
mheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbteSxgdy.egyyercxezsizaziqgy
omdjbezsercxekmyyxkrzmsegdxezsercxevqlyzkeimngzsezsercxeQszrxi
BrgrxbteZhegsezsizaziqgyeomdjezbeqsvdmrxkrxiel.ekmv.dz creygoezsercx
QszrxieBrgrxbegsie.mqegdxeymkgrxiezsercxeQszrxieBrgrxb,eoxeimesmr
kygznegedz crermevdxaxsre.mqehdmnekmv.zs ,eizbrdzlqrzs ,evxdhmdnzs ,
izbvyg.zs emdekdxgrzs eixdzagrzaxeomdjbelgbxiemsercxeomdjegbeyms egb
gyyedxhxdxskxbermeVdmfxkre qrxslxd egdxedxnmaxiteMhekmqdbx,eoxecmvx
rcgre.mqeozyyebqvvmdrercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnenzbbzmsemhevdmnmrzs 
hdxxegkkxbbermexyxkrdmszkeomdjbel.ehdxxy.ebcgdzs eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
omdjbezsekmnvyzgskxeozrcercxerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsrehmdejxxvzs ercx
Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnesgnxegbbmkzgrxieozrcercxeomdjte.mqekgsexgbzy.
kmnvy.eozrcercxerxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsrel.ejxxvzs erczbeomdjezsercx
bgnxehmdngreozrcezrbegrrgkcxiehqyyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxeocxs
.mqebcgdxezreozrcmqrekcgd xeozrcemrcxdbt

1tIteRcxekmv.dz creygobemhercxevygkxeocxdxe.mqegdxeymkgrxiegybme maxds
ocgre.mqekgseimeozrcerczbeomdjteKmv.dz creygobezsenmbrekmqsrdzxbegdx
zsegekmsbrgsrebrgrxemhekcgs xteZhe.mqegdxemqrbzixercxeQszrxieBrgrxb,
kcxkjercxeygobemhe.mqdekmqsrd.ezsegiizrzmsermercxerxdnbemherczb
g dxxnxsrelxhmdxeimosymgizs ,ekmv.zs ,eizbvyg.zs ,evxdhmdnzs ,
izbrdzlqrzs emdekdxgrzs eixdzagrzaxeomdjbelgbxiemserczbeomdjemdegs.
mrcxdeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdjteRcxeHmqsigrzmsengjxbesm
dxvdxbxsrgrzmsbekmskxdszs ercxekmv.dz crebrgrqbemhegs.eomdjezsegs.
kmqsrd.emqrbzixercxeQszrxieBrgrxbt

1tXteQsyxbbe.mqecgaxedxnmaxiegyyedxhxdxskxbermeVdmfxkre qrxslxd :

1tXt1teRcxehmyymozs ebxsrxskx,eozrcegkrzaxeyzsjberm,emdemrcxd
znnxizgrxegkkxbberm,ercxehqyyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxenqbregvvxgd
vdmnzsxsry.eocxsxaxdegs.ekmv.emhegeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdje(gs.eomdj
mseoczkcercxevcdgbxe"Vdmfxkre qrxslxd "egvvxgdb,emdeozrceoczkcercx
vcdgbxe"Vdmfxkre qrxslxd "ezbegbbmkzgrxi)ezbegkkxbbxi,eizbvyg.xi,
vxdhmdnxi,eazxoxi,ekmvzxiemdeizbrdzlqrxi:

eeRczbexLmmjezbehmdercxeqbxemhegs.msxegs.ocxdxezsercxeQszrxieBrgrxbegsi
eenmbremrcxdevgdrbemhercxeomdyiegresmekmbregsieozrcegynmbresm
eedxbrdzkrzmsbeocgrbmxaxdte.mqeng.ekmv.ezr,e zaxezregog.emdedx-qbxezr
eeqsixdercxerxdnbemhercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzkxsbxezskyqixieozrcerczb
eexLmmjemdemsyzsxegreooot qrxslxd tmd teZhe.mqegdxesmreymkgrxiezsercx
eeQszrxieBrgrxb,e.mq'yyecgaxermekcxkjercxeygobemhercxekmqsrd.eocxdxe.mq
eegdxeymkgrxielxhmdxeqbzs erczbexlmmjt

1tXt2teZhegsezsizaziqgyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjezb
ixdzaxiehdmnerxprbesmrevdmrxkrxiel.eQtBtekmv.dz creygoe(imxbesmr
kmsrgzsegesmrzkxezsizkgrzs ercgrezrezbevmbrxieozrcevxdnzbbzmsemhercx
kmv.dz crecmyixd),ercxeomdjekgselxekmvzxiegsieizbrdzlqrxiermegs.msxezs
rcxeQszrxieBrgrxbeozrcmqrevg.zs egs.ehxxbemdekcgd xbteZhe.mqegdx
dxizbrdzlqrzs emdevdmazizs egkkxbbermegeomdjeozrcercxevcdgbxe"Vdmfxkr
 qrxslxd "egbbmkzgrxieozrcemdegvvxgdzs emsercxeomdj,e.mqenqbrekmnvy.
xzrcxdeozrcercxedxuqzdxnxsrbemhevgdg dgvcbe1tXt1ercdmq ce1tXt7emd
mlrgzsevxdnzbbzmsehmdercxeqbxemhercxeomdjegsiercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
rdgixngdjegbebxrehmdrcezsevgdg dgvcbe1tXt8emde1tXt9t

1tXt3teZhegsezsizaziqgyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjezbevmbrxi
ozrcercxevxdnzbbzmsemhercxekmv.dz crecmyixd,e.mqdeqbxegsieizbrdzlqrzms
nqbrekmnvy.eozrcelmrcevgdg dgvcbe1tXt1ercdmq ce1tXt7egsiegs.
giizrzmsgyerxdnbeznvmbxiel.ercxekmv.dz crecmyixdteGiizrzmsgyerxdnb
ozyyelxeyzsjxiermercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxehmdegyyeomdjb
vmbrxieozrcercxevxdnzbbzmsemhercxekmv.dz crecmyixdehmqsiegrercx
lx zsszs emherczbeomdjt

1tXt4teImesmreqsyzsjemdeixrgkcemdedxnmaxercxehqyyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
Yzkxsbxerxdnbehdmnerczbeomdj,emdegs.ehzyxbekmsrgzszs egevgdremherczb
omdjemdegs.emrcxdeomdjegbbmkzgrxieozrceVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnt

1tXt5teImesmrekmv.,eizbvyg.,evxdhmdn,eizbrdzlqrxemdedxizbrdzlqrxerczb
xyxkrdmszkeomdj,emdegs.evgdremherczbexyxkrdmszkeomdj,eozrcmqr
vdmnzsxsry.eizbvyg.zs ercxebxsrxskxebxrehmdrcezsevgdg dgvce1tXt1eozrc
gkrzaxeyzsjbemdeznnxizgrxegkkxbbermercxehqyyerxdnbemhercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxt

1tXt6te.mqeng.ekmsaxdrermegsieizbrdzlqrxerczbeomdjezsegs.elzsgd.,
kmnvdxbbxi,engdjxieqv,esmsvdmvdzxrgd.emdevdmvdzxrgd.ehmdn,ezskyqizs 
gs.eomdievdmkxbbzs emdec.vxdrxprehmdnteCmoxaxd,ezhe.mqevdmazixegkkxbb
rmemdeizbrdzlqrxekmvzxbemhegeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdjezsegehmdngr
mrcxdercgse"VygzseAgszyygeGBKZZ"emdemrcxdehmdngreqbxiezsercxemhhzkzgy
axdbzmsevmbrxiemsercxemhhzkzgyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneoxlebzrx
(ooot qrxslxd tmd ),e.mqenqbr,egresmegiizrzmsgyekmbr,ehxxemdexpvxsbx
rmercxeqbxd,evdmazixegekmv.,egenxgsbemhexpvmdrzs egekmv.,emdegenxgsb
mhemlrgzszs egekmv.eqvmsedxuqxbr,emhercxeomdjezsezrbemdz zsgye"Vygzs
AgszyygeGBKZZ"emdemrcxdehmdnteGs.egyrxdsgrxehmdngrenqbrezskyqixercx
hqyyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneYzkxsbxegbebvxkzhzxiezsevgdg dgvce1tXt1t

1tXt7teImesmrekcgd xegehxxehmdegkkxbberm,eazxozs ,eizbvyg.zs ,
vxdhmdnzs ,ekmv.zs emdeizbrdzlqrzs egs.eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdjb
qsyxbbe.mqekmnvy.eozrcevgdg dgvce1tXt8emde1tXt9t

1tXt8te.mqeng.ekcgd xegedxgbmsglyxehxxehmdekmvzxbemhemdevdmazizs 
gkkxbbermemdeizbrdzlqrzs eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjb
vdmazixiercgr

*e.mqevg.egedm.gyr.ehxxemhe20%emhercxe dmbbevdmhzrbe.mqeixdzaxehdmn
eercxeqbxemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdjbekgykqygrxieqbzs ercxenxrcmi
ee.mqegydxgi.eqbxermekgykqygrxe.mqdegvvyzkglyxergpxbteRcxehxxezbemoxi
eermercxemosxdemhercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnerdgixngdj,elqrecxecgb
eeg dxxiermeimsgrxedm.gyrzxbeqsixderczbevgdg dgvcermercxeVdmfxkr
ee qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsteDm.gyr.evg.nxsrbenqbrelxevgzi
eeozrczse60eig.behmyymozs exgkceigrxemseoczkce.mqevdxvgdxe(mdegdx
eeyx gyy.edxuqzdxiermevdxvgdx)e.mqdevxdzmizkergpedxrqdsbteDm.gyr.
eevg.nxsrbebcmqyielxekyxgdy.engdjxiegbebqkcegsiebxsrermercxeVdmfxkr
ee qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsegrercxegiidxbbebvxkzhzxiezs
eeBxkrzmse4,e"ZshmdngrzmseglmqreimsgrzmsbermercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd 
eeYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmst"

*e.mqevdmazixegehqyyedxhqsiemhegs.enmsx.evgziel.egeqbxdeocmesmrzhzxb
ee.mqezseodzrzs e(mdel.ex-ngzy)eozrczse30eig.bemhedxkxzvrercgreb/cx
eeimxbesmreg dxxermercxerxdnbemhercxehqyyeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
eeYzkxsbxte.mqenqbredxuqzdxebqkcegeqbxdermedxrqdsemdeixbrdm.egyy
eekmvzxbemhercxeomdjbevmbbxbbxiezsegevc.bzkgyenxizqnegsieizbkmsrzsqx
eegyyeqbxemhegsiegyyegkkxbbermemrcxdekmvzxbemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
eeomdjbt

*e.mqevdmazix,ezsegkkmdigskxeozrcevgdg dgvce1tHt3,egehqyyedxhqsiemh
eegs.enmsx.evgziehmdegeomdjemdegedxvygkxnxsrekmv.,ezhegeixhxkrezsercx
eexyxkrdmszkeomdjezbeizbkmaxdxiegsiedxvmdrxierme.mqeozrczse90eig.bemh
eedxkxzvremhercxeomdjt

*e.mqekmnvy.eozrcegyyemrcxderxdnbemherczbeg dxxnxsrehmdehdxx
eeizbrdzlqrzmsemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdjbt

1tXt9teZhe.mqeozbcermekcgd xegehxxemdeizbrdzlqrxegeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjemde dmqvemheomdjbemseizhhxdxsrerxdnbercgs
gdxebxrehmdrcezserczbeg dxxnxsr,e.mqenqbremlrgzsevxdnzbbzmsezseodzrzs 
hdmnelmrcercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsegsieRcx
Vdmfxkre qrxslxd eRdgixngdjeYYK,ercxemosxdemhercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
rdgixngdjteKmsrgkrercxeHmqsigrzmsegbebxrehmdrcezseBxkrzmse3elxymot

1tHt

1tHt1teVdmfxkre qrxslxd eamyqsrxxdbegsiexnvym.xxbexpvxsiekmsbzixdglyx
xhhmdrermezixsrzh.,eimekmv.dz credxbxgdkcems,erdgsbkdzlxegsievdmmhdxgi
omdjbesmrevdmrxkrxiel.eQtBtekmv.dz creygoezsekdxgrzs ercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnekmyyxkrzmsteIxbvzrxercxbxexhhmdrb,eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
xyxkrdmszkeomdjb,egsiercxenxizqnemseoczkcercx.eng.elxebrmdxi,eng.
kmsrgzse"Ixhxkrb,"ebqkcegb,elqresmreyznzrxierm,ezskmnvyxrx,ezsgkkqdgrx
mdekmddqvreigrg,erdgsbkdzvrzmsexddmdb,egekmv.dz cremdemrcxd
zsrxyyxkrqgyevdmvxdr.ezshdzs xnxsr,egeixhxkrzaxemdeigng xieizbjemd
mrcxdenxizqn,egekmnvqrxdeazdqb,emdekmnvqrxdekmixbercgreigng xemd
kgssmrelxedxgiel.e.mqdexuqzvnxsrt

1tHt2teYZNZRXIeOGDDGSR.,eIZBKYGZNXDeMHeIGNG XBe-eXpkxvrehmdercxe"Dz cr
mheDxvygkxnxsremdeDxhqsi"eixbkdzlxiezsevgdg dgvce1tHt3,ercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzms,ercxemosxdemhercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnerdgixngdj,egsiegs.emrcxdevgdr.eizbrdzlqrzs egeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjeqsixderczbeg dxxnxsr,eizbkygznegyy
yzglzyzr.erme.mqehmdeigng xb,ekmbrbegsiexpvxsbxb,ezskyqizs eyx gy
hxxbte.MQeG DXXeRCGRe.MQeCGAXeSMeDXNXIZXBeHMDeSX YZ XSKX,eBRDZKR
YZGLZYZR.,eLDXGKCeMHeOGDDGSR.eMDeLDXGKCeMHeKMSRDGKReXPKXVReRCMBX
VDMAZIXIeZSeVGDG DGVCe1tHt3te.MQeG DXXeRCGReRCXeHMQSIGRZMS,eRCX
RDGIXNGDJeMOSXD,eGSIeGS.eIZBRDZLQRMDeQSIXDeRCZBeG DXXNXSReOZYYeSMReLX
YZGLYXeRMe.MQeHMDeGKRQGY,eIZDXKR,eZSIZDXKR,eKMSBXUQXSRZGY,eVQSZRZAXeMD
ZSKZIXSRGYeIGNG XBeXAXSeZHe.MQe ZAXeSMRZKXeMHeRCXeVMBBZLZYZR.eMHeBQKC
IGNG Xt

1tHt3teYZNZRXIeDZ CReMHeDXVYGKXNXSReMDeDXHQSIe-eZhe.mqeizbkmaxdeg
ixhxkrezserczbexyxkrdmszkeomdjeozrczse90eig.bemhedxkxzazs ezr,e.mqekgs
dxkxzaxegedxhqsiemhercxenmsx.e(zhegs.)e.mqevgziehmdezrel.ebxsizs eg
odzrrxsexpvygsgrzmsermercxevxdbmse.mqedxkxzaxiercxeomdjehdmnteZhe.mq
dxkxzaxiercxeomdjemsegevc.bzkgyenxizqn,e.mqenqbredxrqdsercxenxizqn
ozrce.mqdeodzrrxsexpvygsgrzmsteRcxevxdbmsemdexsrzr.ercgrevdmazixie.mq
ozrcercxeixhxkrzaxeomdjeng.exyxkrermevdmazixegedxvygkxnxsrekmv.ezs
yzxqemhegedxhqsiteZhe.mqedxkxzaxiercxeomdjexyxkrdmszkgyy.,ercxevxdbms
mdexsrzr.evdmazizs ezrerme.mqeng.ekcmmbxerme zaxe.mqegebxkmsi
mvvmdrqszr.ermedxkxzaxercxeomdjexyxkrdmszkgyy.ezseyzxqemhegedxhqsiteZh
rcxebxkmsiekmv.ezbegybmeixhxkrzax,e.mqeng.eixngsiegedxhqsiezseodzrzs 
ozrcmqrehqdrcxdemvvmdrqszrzxbermehzpercxevdmlyxnt

1tHt4teXpkxvrehmdercxeyznzrxiedz cremhedxvygkxnxsremdedxhqsiebxrehmdrc
zsevgdg dgvce1tHt3,erczbeomdjezbevdmazixierme.mqe'GB-ZB',eOZRCeSM
MRCXDeOGDDGSRZXBeMHeGS.eJZSI,eXPVDXBBeMDeZNVYZXI,eZSKYQIZS eLQReSMR
YZNZRXIeRMeOGDDGSRZXBeMHeNXDKCGSRGLZYZR.eMDeHZRSXBBeHMDeGS.eVQDVMBXt

1tHt5teBmnxebrgrxbeimesmregyymoeizbkygznxdbemhekxdrgzseznvyzxi
ogddgsrzxbemdercxexpkyqbzmsemdeyznzrgrzmsemhekxdrgzser.vxbemh
igng xbteZhegs.eizbkygznxdemdeyznzrgrzmsebxrehmdrcezserczbeg dxxnxsr
azmygrxbercxeygoemhercxebrgrxegvvyzkglyxermerczbeg dxxnxsr,ercx
g dxxnxsrebcgyyelxezsrxdvdxrxiermengjxercxengpznqneizbkygznxdemd
yznzrgrzmsevxdnzrrxiel.ercxegvvyzkglyxebrgrxeygoteRcxezsagyzizr.emd
qsxshmdkxglzyzr.emhegs.evdmazbzmsemherczbeg dxxnxsrebcgyyesmreamziercx
dxngzszs evdmazbzmsbt

1tHt6teZSIXNSZR.e-e.mqeg dxxermezsixnszh.egsiecmyiercxeHmqsigrzms,ercx
rdgixngdjemosxd,egs.eg xsremdexnvym.xxemhercxeHmqsigrzms,egs.msx
vdmazizs ekmvzxbemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbezs
gkkmdigskxeozrcerczbeg dxxnxsr,egsiegs.eamyqsrxxdbegbbmkzgrxieozrcercx
vdmiqkrzms,evdmnmrzmsegsieizbrdzlqrzmsemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn
xyxkrdmszkeomdjb,ecgdnyxbbehdmnegyyeyzglzyzr.,ekmbrbegsiexpvxsbxb,
zskyqizs eyx gyehxxb,ercgregdzbxeizdxkry.emdezsizdxkry.ehdmnegs.emh
rcxehmyymozs eoczkce.mqeimemdekgqbxermemkkqd:e(g)eizbrdzlqrzmsemherczb
mdegs.eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdj,e(l)egyrxdgrzms,enmizhzkgrzms,emd
giizrzmsbemdeixyxrzmsbermegs.eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneomdj,egsie(k)egs.
Ixhxkre.mqekgqbxt

Bxkrzmse2teZshmdngrzmseglmqrercxeNzbbzmsemheVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn

Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnezbeb.sms.nmqbeozrcercxehdxxeizbrdzlqrzmsemh
xyxkrdmszkeomdjbezsehmdngrbedxgiglyxel.ercxeozixbreagdzxr.emh
kmnvqrxdbezskyqizs emlbmyxrx,emyi,enziiyx-g xiegsiesxoekmnvqrxdbteZr
xpzbrbelxkgqbxemhercxexhhmdrbemhecqsidxibemheamyqsrxxdbegsieimsgrzmsb
hdmnevxmvyxezsegyyeogyjbemheyzhxt

Amyqsrxxdbegsiehzsgskzgyebqvvmdrermevdmazixeamyqsrxxdbeozrcercx
gbbzbrgskxercx.esxxiegdxekdzrzkgyermedxgkczs eVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn'b
 mgybegsiexsbqdzs ercgrercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnekmyyxkrzmseozyy
dxngzsehdxxy.egagzyglyxehmde xsxdgrzmsbermekmnxteZse2001,ercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmseogbekdxgrxiermevdmazixegebxkqdx
gsievxdngsxsrehqrqdxehmdeVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnegsiehqrqdx
 xsxdgrzmsbteRmeyxgdsenmdxeglmqrercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.
GdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsegsiecmoe.mqdexhhmdrbegsieimsgrzmsbekgsecxyv,ebxx
Bxkrzmsbe3egsie4egsiercxeHmqsigrzmsezshmdngrzmsevg xegr
ooot qrxslxd tmd 



Bxkrzmse3teZshmdngrzmseglmqrercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzms

RcxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsezbegesmsevdmhzr
501(k)(3)exiqkgrzmsgyekmdvmdgrzmsemd gszwxieqsixdercxeygobemhercx
brgrxemheNzbbzbbzvvzegsie dgsrxiergpexpxnvrebrgrqbel.ercxeZsrxdsgy
DxaxsqxeBxdazkxteRcxeHmqsigrzms'beXZSemdehxixdgyergpezixsrzhzkgrzms
sqnlxdezbe64-6221541teKmsrdzlqrzmsbermercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.
GdkczaxeHmqsigrzmsegdxergpeixiqkrzlyxermercxehqyyexprxsrevxdnzrrxiel.
QtBtehxixdgyeygobegsie.mqdebrgrx'beygobt

RcxeHmqsigrzms'bevdzskzvgyemhhzkxezbezseHgzdlgsjb,eGygbjg,eozrcercx
ngzyzs egiidxbb:eVMeLmpe750175,eHgzdlgsjb,eGJe99775,elqrezrb
amyqsrxxdbegsiexnvym.xxbegdxebkgrrxdxiercdmq cmqresqnxdmqb
ymkgrzmsbteZrbelqbzsxbbemhhzkxezbeymkgrxiegre809eSmdrce1500eOxbr,eBgyr
YgjxeKzr.,eQRe84116,e(801)e596-1887teXngzyekmsrgkreyzsjbegsieqverm
igrxekmsrgkrezshmdngrzmsekgselxehmqsiegrercxeHmqsigrzms'beoxlebzrxegsi
mhhzkzgyevg xegreooot qrxslxd tmd /kmsrgkr

Hmdegiizrzmsgyekmsrgkrezshmdngrzms:

eeeeIdte dx md.eLteSxol.
eeeeKczxheXpxkqrzaxegsieIzdxkrmd
eeee lsxol.@v yghtmd 

Bxkrzmse4teZshmdngrzmseglmqreImsgrzmsbermercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd 
Yzrxdgd.eGdkczaxeHmqsigrzms

Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rneixvxsibeqvmsegsiekgssmrebqdazaxeozrcmqreozix
bvdxgievqlyzkebqvvmdregsieimsgrzmsbermekgdd.emqrezrbenzbbzmsemh
zskdxgbzs ercxesqnlxdemhevqlyzkeimngzsegsieyzkxsbxieomdjbercgrekgselx
hdxxy.eizbrdzlqrxiezsengkczsxedxgiglyxehmdnegkkxbbzlyxel.ercxeozixbr
gddg.emhexuqzvnxsrezskyqizs emqrigrxiexuqzvnxsrteNgs.ebngyyeimsgrzmsb
($1erme$5,000)egdxevgdrzkqygdy.eznvmdrgsrermengzsrgzszs ergpexpxnvr
brgrqbeozrcercxeZDBt

RcxeHmqsigrzmsezbekmnnzrrxiermekmnvy.zs eozrcercxeygobedx qygrzs 
kcgdzrzxbegsiekcgdzrglyxeimsgrzmsbezsegyye50ebrgrxbemhercxeQszrxi
BrgrxbteKmnvyzgskxedxuqzdxnxsrbegdxesmreqszhmdnegsiezrergjxbeg
kmsbzixdglyxexhhmdr,enqkcevgvxdomdjegsiengs.ehxxbermenxxregsiejxxveqv
ozrcercxbxedxuqzdxnxsrbteOxeimesmrebmyzkzreimsgrzmsbezseymkgrzmsb
ocxdxeoxecgaxesmredxkxzaxieodzrrxsekmshzdngrzmsemhekmnvyzgskxteRmeBXSI
IMSGRZMSBemdeixrxdnzsxercxebrgrqbemhekmnvyzgskxehmdegs.evgdrzkqygd
brgrxeazbzreooot qrxslxd tmd /imsgrx

Oczyxeoxekgssmregsieimesmrebmyzkzrekmsrdzlqrzmsbehdmnebrgrxbeocxdxeox
cgaxesmrenxrercxebmyzkzrgrzmsedxuqzdxnxsrb,eoxejsmoemhesmevdmczlzrzms
g gzsbregkkxvrzs eqsbmyzkzrxieimsgrzmsbehdmneimsmdbezsebqkcebrgrxbeocm
gvvdmgkceqbeozrcemhhxdbermeimsgrxt

Zsrxdsgrzmsgyeimsgrzmsbegdxe dgrxhqyy.egkkxvrxi,elqreoxekgssmrengjx
gs.ebrgrxnxsrbekmskxdszs ergperdxgrnxsremheimsgrzmsbedxkxzaxiehdmn
mqrbzixercxeQszrxieBrgrxbteQtBteygobegymsxebognvemqdebngyyebrghht

VyxgbxekcxkjercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eOxlevg xbehmdekqddxsreimsgrzms
nxrcmibegsiegiidxbbxbteImsgrzmsbegdxegkkxvrxiezsegesqnlxdemhemrcxd
og.bezskyqizs ekcxkjb,emsyzsxevg.nxsrbegsiekdxizrekgdieimsgrzmsbteRm
imsgrx,evyxgbxeazbzr:eooot qrxslxd tmd /imsgrx

Bxkrzmse5te xsxdgyeZshmdngrzmseGlmqreVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexyxkrdmszkeomdjbt

VdmhxbbmdeNzkcgxyeBteCgdreogbercxemdz zsgrmdemhercxeVdmfxkr
 qrxslxd -rnekmskxvremhegeyzldgd.emhexyxkrdmszkeomdjbercgrekmqyielx
hdxxy.ebcgdxieozrcegs.msxteHmdehmdr.e.xgdb,ecxevdmiqkxiegsi
izbrdzlqrxieVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexLmmjbeozrcemsy.egeymmbxesxromdjemh
amyqsrxxdebqvvmdrt

Vdmfxkre qrxslxd -rnexLmmjbegdxemhrxsekdxgrxiehdmnebxaxdgyevdzsrxi
xizrzmsb,egyyemheoczkcegdxekmshzdnxiegbesmrevdmrxkrxiel.ekmv.dz crezs
rcxeQtBteqsyxbbegekmv.dz cresmrzkxezbezskyqixiteRcqb,eoxeimesmr
sxkxbbgdzy.ejxxvexLmmjbezsekmnvyzgskxeozrcegs.evgdrzkqygdevgvxd
xizrzmst

NmbrevxmvyxebrgdregremqdeOxlebzrxeoczkcecgbercxengzseV ebxgdkc
hgkzyzr.:eooot qrxslxd tmd 

RczbeOxlebzrxezskyqixbezshmdngrzmseglmqreVdmfxkre qrxslxd -rn,
zskyqizs ecmoermengjxeimsgrzmsbermercxeVdmfxkre qrxslxd eYzrxdgd.
GdkczaxeHmqsigrzms,ecmoermecxyvevdmiqkxemqdesxoexLmmjb,egsiecmoerm
bqlbkdzlxermemqdexngzyesxobyxrrxdermecxgdeglmqresxoexLmmjbt





