
FmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgIT..pg.cgHzybiu,gzubg.ugFmigBqfng.cg rsry
Brw.tibriu i,gtngMiuxngBzsrbgFm.xizq

FmrwgiT..pgrwgc.xgfmigqwig.cgzun.uigzunhmixigzfgu.g .wfgzubghrfm
zyd.wfgu.gxiwfxr fr.uwghmzfw.isixagN.qgdzng .jngrf,gvrsigrfgzhzng.x
xi-qwigrfgqubixgfmigfixdwg.cgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYr iuwigru yqbib
hrfmgfmrwgiT..pg.xg.uyruigzfghhhavqfiutixva.xv


Frfyi:gHzybiu,gzubg.ugFmigBqfng.cg rsrygBrw.tibriu i

Zqfm.x:gMiuxngBzsrbgFm.xizq

XiyizwigBzfi:gKzuqzxn,g1995g[IT..pg#205]
YzwfgQjbzfib:g. f.tixg20,g2018

Yzuvqzvi:gIuvyrwm

 mzxz fixgwifgiu .bruv:gQFC-8

***gWFZXFg.CgFMRWgJX.KI FgVQFIUTIXVgIT..PgHZYBIUg***




Jx.bq ibgtngKqbrfmgT.ww,gzubgBzsrbgHrbvix




HZYBIU




zub



.UgFMIgBQFNg.Cg RSRYgBRW.TIBRIU I



tngMiuxngBzsrbgFm.xizq


 .six


 .ufiufw


gHZYBIU

gI .u.dn
gHmixigRgYrsib,gzubgHmzfgRgYrsibgC.x
gXizbruv
gW.qubw
gW.yrfqbi
gSrwrf.xw
gFmigTizu-Criyb
gFmigSryyzvi
gFmigJ.ubw
gTzpixgCzxd
gMrvmixgYzhw
gTxqfigUirvmt.xw
gM.qwi-Hzxdruv
gC.xdixgRumztrfzufwgzubgHrufixgSrwrf.xw
gHrufixgZurdzyw
gFmigJ.ubgrugHrufix
gWjxruv
g .u yqwr.u

g.UgFMIgBQFNg.Cg RSRYgBRW.TIBRIU I



HZYBIU

I .u.dn

HmiugRghx.figfmigc.yy.hruvgjzviw,g.xgxzfmixgfmigtqypg.cgfmid,gRgyrsib
zy.ui,grugfmigh..bw,gzgdryigcx.dgzunguirvmt.x,grugzgm.qwighmr mgRgmzb
tqryfgdnwiyc,g.ugfmigwm.xig.cgHzybiugJ.ub,grug .u .xb,gDzwwz mqwiffw,
zubgizxuibgdngyrsruvgtngfmigyzt.xg.cgdngmzubwg.uynagRgyrsibgfmixigfh.
nizxwgzubgfh.gd.ufmwagZfgjxiwiufgRgzdgzgw.k.qxuixgrug rsryreibgyrci
zvzrua

Rgwm.qybgu.fg.tfxqbigdngzcczrxwgw.gdq mg.ugfmigu.fr ig.cgdngxizbixwgrc
sixngjzxfr qyzxgrulqrxriwgmzbgu.fgtiiugdzbigtngdngf.huwdiug .u ixuruv
dngd.big.cgyrci,ghmr mgw.digh.qybg zyygrdjixfruiuf,gfm.qvmgfmingb.gu.f
zjjizxgf.gdigzfgzyygrdjixfruiuf,gtqf,g .uwrbixruvgfmig rx qdwfzu iw,
sixnguzfqxzygzubgjixfruiufagW.digmzsigzwpibghmzfgRgv.fgf.gizf;grcgRgbrb
u.fgciiygy.uiw.di;grcgRghzwgu.fgzcxzrb;gzubgfmigyrpiag.fmixwgmzsigtiiu
 qxr.qwgf.gyizxughmzfgj.xfr.ug.cgdngru .digRgbis.fibgf.g mzxrfztyi
jqxj.wiw;gzubgw.di,ghm.gmzsigyzxvigczdryriw,gm.hgdzungj..xg mrybxiugR
dzrufzruibagRghryygfmixic.xigzwpgfm.wig.cgdngxizbixwghm.gciiygu.
jzxfr qyzxgrufixiwfgrugdigf.gjzxb.ugdigrcgRgqubixfzpigf.gzuwhixgw.dig.c
fmiwiglqiwfr.uwgrugfmrwgt..pagRugd.wfgt..pw,gfmig_R_,g.xgcrxwfgjixw.u,
rwg.drffib;grugfmrwgrfghryygtigxifzruib;gfmzf,grugxiwji fgf.giv.frwd,
rwgfmigdzrugbrccixiu iagHig .dd.uyngb.gu.fgxididtixgfmzfgrfgrw,gzcfix
zyy,gzyhznwgfmigcrxwfgjixw.ugfmzfgrwgwjizpruvagRgwm.qybgu.fgfzypgw.
dq mgzt.qfgdnwiycgrcgfmixighixigzunt.bngiywighm.dgRgpuihgzwghiyya
Quc.xfquzfiyn,gRgzdg .ucruibgf.gfmrwgfmidigtngfmiguzxx.huiwwg.cgdn
iojixriu iagD.xi.six,gR,g.ugdngwrbi,gxilqrxig.cgisixnghxrfix,gcrxwfg.x
yzwf,gzgwrdjyigzubgwru ixigz  .qufg.cgmrwg.hugyrci,gzubgu.fgdixiynghmzf
migmzwgmizxbg.cg.fmixgdiu’wgyrsiw;gw.digwq mgz  .qufgzwgmigh.qybgwiub
f.gmrwgprubxibgcx.dgzgbrwfzufgyzub;gc.xgrcgmigmzwgyrsibgwru ixiyn,grf
dqwfgmzsigtiiugrugzgbrwfzufgyzubgf.gdiagJixmzjwgfmiwigjzviwgzxigd.xi
jzxfr qyzxyngzbbxiwwibgf.gj..xgwfqbiufwagZwgc.xgfmigxiwfg.cgdngxizbixw,
fminghryygz  ijfgwq mgj.xfr.uwgzwgzjjyngf.gfmidagRgfxqwfgfmzfgu.uighryy
wfxif mgfmigwizdwgrugjqffruvg.ugfmig .zf,gc.xgrfgdzngb.gv..bgwixsr igf.
mrdghm.dgrfgcrfwa

Rgh.qybgczrugwzngw.difmruv,gu.fgw.gdq mg .u ixuruvgfmig mruiwigzub
Wzubhr mgRwyzubixwgzwgn.qghm.gxizbgfmiwigjzviw,ghm.gzxigwzrbgf.gyrsigru
UihgIuvyzub;gw.difmruvgzt.qfgn.qxg .ubrfr.u,giwji rzyyngn.qxg.qfhzxb
 .ubrfr.ug.xg rx qdwfzu iwgrugfmrwgh.xyb,grugfmrwgf.hu,ghmzfgrfgrw,
hmifmixgrfgrwgui iwwzxngfmzfgrfgtigzwgtzbgzwgrfgrw,ghmifmixgrfg zuu.f
tigrdjx.sibgzwghiyygzwgu.fagRgmzsigfxzsiyyibgzgv..bgbizygrug .u .xb;
zubgisixnhmixi,grugwm.jw,gzubg.ccr iw,gzubgcriybw,gfmigrumztrfzufwgmzsi
zjjizxibgf.gdigf.gtigb.ruvgjiuzu igrugzgfm.qwzubgxidzxpztyighznwagHmzf
Rgmzsigmizxbg.cgTxzmdruwgwrffruvgioj.wibgf.gc.qxgcrxiwgzubgy..pruvgru
fmigcz ig.cgfmigwqu;g.xgmzuvruvgwqwjiubib,ghrfmgfmirxgmizbwgb.huhzxb,
.sixgcyzdiw;g.xgy..pruvgzfgfmigmizsiuwg.sixgfmirxgwm.qybixwg“qufrygrf
ti .diwgrdj.wwrtyigc.xgfmidgf.gxiwqdigfmirxguzfqxzygj.wrfr.u,ghmryi
cx.dgfmigfhrwfg.cgfmigui pgu.fmruvgtqfgyrlqrbwg zugjzwwgruf.gfmi
wf.dz m;”g.xgbhiyyruv,g mzruibgc.xgyrci,gzfgfmigc..fg.cgzgfxii;g.x
dizwqxruvghrfmgfmirxgt.briw,gyrpig zfixjryyzxw,gfmigtxizbfmg.cgszwf
idjrxiw;g.xgwfzubruvg.ug.uigyivg.ugfmigf.jwg.cgjryyzxw,—isiugfmiwi
c.xdwg.cg .uw r.qwgjiuzu igzxigmzxbyngd.xigru xibrtyigzubgzwf.urwmruv
fmzugfmigw iuiwghmr mgRgbzrynghrfuiwwagFmigfhiysigyzt.xwg.cgMix qyiw
hixigfxrcyruvgrug .djzxrw.ughrfmgfm.wighmr mgdnguirvmt.xwgmzsi
qubixfzpiu;gc.xgfminghixig.uyngfhiysi,gzubgmzbgzugiub;gtqfgRg .qyb
uisixgwiigfmzfgfmiwigdiugwyihg.xg zjfqxibgzungd.uwfixg.xgcrurwmibgzun
yzt.xagFmingmzsigu.gcxriubgR.yzwgf.gtqxughrfmgzgm.fgrx.ugfmigx..fg.c
fmigmnbxz’wgmizb,gtqfgzwgw..ugzwg.uigmizbgrwg xqwmib,gfh.gwjxruvgqja

Rgwiign.quvgdiu,gdngf.huwdiu,ghm.wigdrwc.xfquigrfgrwgf.gmzsigrumixrfib
czxdw,gm.qwiw,gtzxuw,g zffyi,gzubgczxdruvgf..yw;gc.xgfmiwigzxigd.xi
izwryngz lqrxibgfmzugv.fgxrbg.cagTiffixgrcgfmingmzbgtiiugt.xugrugfmi
.jiugjzwfqxigzubgwq pyibgtngzgh.yc,gfmzfgfmingdrvmfgmzsigwiiughrfm
 yizxixginiwghmzfgcriybgfminghixig zyyibgf.gyzt.xgruagHm.gdzbigfmid
wixcwg.cgfmigw.ry?gHmngwm.qybgfmingizfgfmirxgwrofngz xiw,ghmiugdzugrw
 .ubiduibgf.gizfg.uyngmrwgji pg.cgbrxf?gHmngwm.qybgfmingtivrugbrvvruv
fmirxgvxzsiwgzwgw..ugzwgfmingzxigt.xu?gFmingmzsigv.fgf.gyrsigzgdzu’w
yrci,gjqwmruvgzyygfmiwigfmruvwgtic.xigfmid,gzubgvifg.ugzwghiyygzwgfmin
 zuagM.hgdzungzgj..xgrdd.xfzygw.qygmzsigRgdifghiyygurvmg xqwmibgzub
wd.fmixibgqubixgrfwgy.zb,g xiijruvgb.hugfmigx.zbg.cgyrci,gjqwmruv
tic.xigrfgzgtzxugwisiufn-crsigciifgtngc.xfn,grfwgZqvizugwfztyiwguisix
 yizuwib,gzubg.uigmqubxibgz xiwg.cgyzub,gfryyzvi,gd.hruv,gjzwfqxi,gzub
h..b-y.f!gFmigj.xfr.uyiww,ghm.gwfxqvvyighrfmgu.gwq mgquui iwwzxn
rumixrfibgiu qdtxzu iw,gcrubgrfgyzt.xgiu.qvmgf.gwqtbqigzubg qyfrszfigz
cihg qtr gciifg.cgcyiwma

Tqfgdiugyzt.xgqubixgzgdrwfzpiagFmigtiffixgjzxfg.cgfmigdzugrwgw..u
jy.hibgruf.gfmigw.rygc.xg .dj.wfagTngzgwiidruvgczfi,g .dd.uyng zyyib
ui iwwrfn,gfmingzxigidjy.nib,gzwgrfgwznwgrugzug.ybgt..p,gyznruvgqj
fxizwqxiwghmr mgd.fmgzubgxqwfghryyg .xxqjfgzubgfmrisiwgtxizpgfmx.qvm
zubgwfizyagRfgrwgzgc..y’wgyrci,gzwgfminghryygcrubghmiugfmingvifgf.gfmi
iubg.cgrf,grcgu.fgtic.xiagRfgrwgwzrbgfmzfgBiq zyr.ugzubgJnxxmzg xizfib
diugtngfmx.hruvgwf.uiwg.sixgfmirxgmizbwgtimrubgfmid:—

gggggRubigviuqwgbqxqdgwqdqw,giojixriuwlqigyzt.xqd,
gggggIfgb. qdiufzgbzdqwglqâgwrdqwg.xrvruiguzfra

.x,gzwgXzyirvmgxmndiwgrfgrugmrwgw.u.x.qwghzn,—

ggggg“Cx.dgfmiu ig.qxgprubgmzxb-mizxfibgrw,giubqxruvgjzrugzubg zxi,
gggggZjjx.sruvgfmzfg.qxgt.briwg.cgzgwf.unguzfqxigzxia”

W.gdq mgc.xgzgtyrubg.tibriu igf.gzgtyqubixruvg.xz yi,gfmx.hruvgfmi
wf.uiwg.sixgfmirxgmizbwgtimrubgfmid,gzubgu.fgwiiruvghmixigfmingciyya

D.wfgdiu,gisiugrugfmrwg .djzxzfrsiyngcxiig .qufxn,gfmx.qvmgdixi
rvu.xzu igzubgdrwfzpi,gzxigw.g.  qjribghrfmgfmigcz frfr.qwg zxiwgzub
wqjixcyq.qwyng .zxwigyzt.xwg.cgyrcigfmzfgrfwgcruixgcxqrfwg zuu.fgti
jyq pibgtngfmidagFmirxgcruvixw,gcx.dgio iwwrsigf.ry,gzxigf..g yqdwngzub
fxidtyigf..gdq mgc.xgfmzfagZ fqzyyn,gfmigyzt.xruvgdzugmzwgu.fgyirwqxi
c.xgzgfxqigrufivxrfngbzngtngbzn;gmig zuu.fgzcc.xbgf.gwqwfzrugfmi
dzuyriwfgxiyzfr.uwgf.gdiu;gmrwgyzt.xgh.qybgtigbijxi rzfibgrugfmi
dzxpifagMigmzwgu.gfrdigf.gtigzunfmruvgtqfgzgdz mruiagM.hg zugmi
xididtixghiyygmrwgrvu.xzu i—hmr mgmrwgvx.hfmgxilqrxiw—hm.gmzwgw.g.cfiu
f.gqwigmrwgpu.hyibvi?gHigwm.qybgciibgzubg y.fmigmrdgvxzfqrf.qwyn
w.difrdiw,gzubgxi xqrfgmrdghrfmg.qxg .xbrzyw,gtic.xighigkqbvig.cgmrda
Fmigcruiwfglqzyrfriwg.cg.qxguzfqxi,gyrpigfmigty..dg.ugcxqrfw,g zugti
jxiwixsibg.uyngtngfmigd.wfgbiyr zfigmzubyruvagNifghigb.gu.fgfxizf
.qxwiysiwgu.xg.uigzu.fmixgfmqwgfiubixyna

W.dig.cgn.q,ghigzyygpu.h,gzxigj..x,gcrubgrfgmzxbgf.gyrsi,gzxi
w.difrdiw,gzwgrfghixi,gvzwjruvgc.xgtxizfmagRgmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzfgw.dig.c
n.qghm.gxizbgfmrwgt..pgzxigquztyigf.gjzngc.xgzyygfmigbruuixwghmr mgn.q
mzsigz fqzyyngizfiu,g.xgc.xgfmig .zfwgzubgwm.iwghmr mgzxigczwfghizxruv
.xgzxigzyxizbngh.xug.qf,gzubgmzsig .digf.gfmrwgjzvigf.gwjiubgt.xx.hib
.xgwf.yiugfrdi,gx.ttruvgn.qxg xibrf.xwg.cgzugm.qxagRfgrwgsixngisrbiuf
hmzfgdizugzubgwuizpruvgyrsiwgdzung.cgn.qgyrsi,gc.xgdngwrvmfgmzwgtiiu
hmiffibgtngiojixriu i;gzyhznwg.ugfmigyrdrfw,gfxnruvgf.gvifgruf.
tqwruiwwgzubgfxnruvgf.gvifg.qfg.cgbitf,gzgsixngzu riufgwy.qvm,g zyyib
tngfmigYzfruwg_æwgzyriuqd_,gzu.fmix’wgtxzww,gc.xgw.dig.cgfmirxg .ruw
hixigdzbig.cgtxzww;gwfryygyrsruv,gzubgbnruv,gzubgtqxribgtngfmrwg.fmix’w
txzww;gzyhznwgjx.drwruvgf.gjzn,gjx.drwruvgf.gjzn,gf.d.xx.h,gzubgbnruv
f.bzn,gruw.ysiuf;gwiipruvgf.g qxxngczs.x,gf.gvifg qwf.d,gtngm.hgdzun
d.biw,g.uyngu.fgwfzfi-jxrw.ug.cciu iw;gynruv,gcyzffixruv,gs.fruv,
 .ufxz fruvgn.qxwiysiwgruf.gzguqfwmiyyg.cg rsryrfng.xgbryzfruvgruf.gzu
zfd.wjmixig.cgfmrugzubgszj.x.qwgviuix.wrfn,gfmzfgn.qgdzngjixwqzbign.qx
uirvmt.xgf.gyifgn.qgdzpigmrwgwm.iw,g.xgmrwgmzf,g.xgmrwg .zf,g.xgmrw
 zxxrzvi,g.xgrdj.xfgmrwgvx. ixriwgc.xgmrd;gdzpruvgn.qxwiysiwgwr p,gfmzf
n.qgdzngyzngqjgw.difmruvgzvzruwfgzgwr pgbzn,gw.difmruvgf.gtigfq pib
zhzngrugzug.ybg miwf,g.xgrugzgwf. pruvgtimrubgfmigjyzwfixruv,g.x,gd.xi
wzciyn,grugfmigtxr pgtzup;gu.gdzffixghmixi,gu.gdzffixgm.hgdq mg.xgm.h
yrffyia

Rgw.difrdiwgh.ubixgfmzfghig zugtigw.gcxrs.y.qw,gRgdzngzyd.wfgwzn,gzwgf.
zffiubgf.gfmigvx.wwgtqfgw.dihmzfgc.xirvugc.xdg.cgwixsrfqbig zyyibgUivx.
Wyzsixn,gfmixigzxigw.gdzungpiiugzubgwqtfyigdzwfixwgfmzfgiuwyzsigt.fm
u.xfmgzubgw.qfmagRfgrwgmzxbgf.gmzsigzgw.qfmixug.sixwiix;grfgrwgh.xwigf.
mzsigzgu.xfmixug.ui;gtqfgh.xwfg.cgzyyghmiugn.qgzxigfmigwyzsi-bxrsixg.c
n.qxwiycagFzypg.cgzgbrsrurfngrugdzu!gY..pgzfgfmigfizdwfixg.ugfmi
mrvmhzn,ghiubruvgf.gdzxpifgtngbzng.xgurvmf;gb.iwgzungbrsrurfngwfrx
hrfmrugmrd?gMrwgmrvmiwfgbqfngf.gc.bbixgzubghzfixgmrwgm.xwiw!gHmzfgrw
mrwgbiwfrungf.gmrdg .djzxibghrfmgfmigwmrjjruvgrufixiwfw?gB.iwgu.fgmi
bxrsigc.xgWlqrxigDzpi-z-wfrx?gM.hgv.byrpi,gm.hgrdd.xfzy,grwgmi?gWiigm.h
mig .hixwgzubgwuizpw,gm.hgszvqiyngzyygfmigbzngmigcizxw,gu.fgtiruv
rdd.xfzygu.xgbrsrui,gtqfgfmigwyzsigzubgjxrw.uixg.cgmrwg.hug.jrur.ug.c
mrdwiyc,gzgczdigh.ugtngmrwg.hugbiibwagJqtyr g.jrur.ugrwgzghizpgfnxzuf
 .djzxibghrfmg.qxg.hugjxrszfig.jrur.uagHmzfgzgdzugfmrupwg.cgmrdwiyc,
fmzfgrfgrwghmr mgbifixdruiw,g.xgxzfmixgrubr zfiw,gmrwgczfia
Wiyc-idzu rjzfr.ugisiugrugfmigHiwfgRubrzugjx.sru iwg.cgfmigczu ngzub
rdzvruzfr.u,—hmzfgHrytixc.x igrwgfmixigf.gtxruvgfmzfgzt.qf?gFmrup,
zyw.,g.cgfmigyzbriwg.cgfmigyzubghizsruvgf.ryifg qwmr.uwgzvzruwfgfmi
yzwfgbzn,gu.fgf.gtifxzngf..gvxiiugzugrufixiwfgrugfmirxgczfiw!gZwgrcgn.q
 .qybgpryygfrdighrfm.qfgrukqxruvgifixurfna

Fmigdzwwg.cgdiugyizbgyrsiwg.cglqrifgbiwjixzfr.uagHmzfgrwg zyyib
xiwrvuzfr.ugrwg .ucrxdibgbiwjixzfr.uagCx.dgfmigbiwjixzfig rfngn.qgv.
ruf.gfmigbiwjixzfig .qufxn,gzubgmzsigf.g .uw.yign.qxwiycghrfmgfmi
txzsixng.cgdrupwgzubgdqwpxzfwagZgwfixi.fnjibgtqfgqu .uw r.qwgbiwjzrxgrw
 .u izyibgisiugqubixghmzfgzxig zyyibgfmigvzdiwgzubgzdqwidiufwg.c
dzuprubagFmixigrwgu.gjyzngrugfmid,gc.xgfmrwg .diwgzcfixgh.xpagTqfgrfgrw
zg mzxz fixrwfr g.cghrwb.dgu.fgf.gb.gbiwjixzfigfmruvwa

Hmiughig .uwrbixghmzf,gf.gqwigfmigh.xbwg.cgfmig zfi mrwd,grwgfmig mric
iubg.cgdzu,gzubghmzfgzxigfmigfxqigui iwwzxriwgzubgdizuwg.cgyrci,grf
zjjizxwgzwgrcgdiugmzbgbiyrtixzfiyng m.wiugfmig .dd.ugd.big.cgyrsruv
ti zqwigfmingjxicixxibgrfgf.gzung.fmixagNifgfmingm.uiwfyngfmrupgfmixi
rwgu.g m.r igyicfagTqfgzyixfgzubgmizyfmnguzfqxiwgxididtixgfmzfgfmigwqu
x.wig yizxagRfgrwguisixgf..gyzfigf.gvrsigqjg.qxgjxikqbr iwagU.ghzng.c
fmrupruvg.xgb.ruv,gm.hisixgzu riuf,g zugtigfxqwfibghrfm.qfgjx..cagHmzf
isixnt.bngi m.iwg.xgrugwryiu igjzwwiwgtngzwgfxqigf.-bzngdzngfqxug.qfgf.
tigczywim..bgf.-d.xx.h,gdixigwd.pig.cg.jrur.u,ghmr mgw.digmzbgfxqwfib
c.xgzg y.qbgfmzfgh.qybgwjxrupyigcixfryreruvgxzrug.ugfmirxgcriybwagHmzf
.ybgji.jyigwzngn.qg zuu.fgb.gn.qgfxngzubgcrubgfmzfgn.qg zuag.ybgbiibw
c.xg.ybgji.jyi,gzubguihgbiibwgc.xguihag.ybgji.jyigbrbgu.fgpu.hgiu.qvm
.u i,gjix mzu i,gf.gcif mgcxiwmgcqiygf.gpiijgfmigcrxigz-v.ruv;guih
ji.jyigjqfgzgyrffyigbxngh..bgqubixgzgj.f,gzubgzxighmrxyibgx.qubgfmi
vy.tighrfmgfmigwjiibg.cgtrxbw,grugzghzngf.gpryyg.ybgji.jyi,gzwgfmi
jmxzwigrwagZvigrwgu.gtiffix,gmzxbyngw.ghiyy,glqzyrcribgc.xgzu
ruwfxq f.xgzwgn.qfm,gc.xgrfgmzwgu.fgjx.crfibgw.gdq mgzwgrfgmzwgy.wfa
.uigdzngzyd.wfgb.qtfgrcgfmighrwiwfgdzugmzwgyizxuibgzungfmruvg.c
ztw.yqfigszyqigtngyrsruvagJxz fr zyyn,gfmig.ybgmzsigu.gsixngrdj.xfzuf
zbsr igf.gvrsigfmign.quv,gfmirxg.hugiojixriu igmzwgtiiugw.gjzxfrzy,gzub
fmirxgyrsiwgmzsigtiiugwq mgdrwixztyigczryqxiw,gc.xgjxrszfigxizw.uw,gzw
fmingdqwfgtiyrisi;gzubgrfgdzngtigfmzfgfmingmzsigw.digczrfmgyicfghmr m
tiyriwgfmzfgiojixriu i,gzubgfmingzxig.uyngyiwwgn.quvgfmzugfminghixiagR
mzsigyrsibgw.digfmrxfngnizxwg.ugfmrwgjyzuif,gzubgRgmzsignifgf.gmizxgfmi
crxwfgwnyyztyig.cgszyqztyig.xgisiugizxuiwfgzbsr igcx.dgdngwiur.xwagFmin
mzsigf.ybgdigu.fmruv,gzubgjx.tztyng zuu.fgfiyygdigzungfmruvgf.gfmi
jqxj.wiagMixigrwgyrci,gzugiojixrdiufgf.gzgvxizfgiofiufgqufxribgtngdi;
tqfgrfgb.iwgu.fgzszrygdigfmzfgfmingmzsigfxribgrfagRcgRgmzsigzun
iojixriu ighmr mgRgfmrupgszyqztyi,gRgzdgwqxigf.gxicyi fgfmzfgfmrwgdn
Diuf.xwgwzrbgu.fmruvgzt.qfa

.uigczxdixgwznwgf.gdi,g“N.qg zuu.fgyrsig.ugsivifztyigc..bgw.yiyn,gc.x
rfgcqxurwmiwgu.fmruvgf.gdzpigt.uiwghrfm;”gzubgw.gmigxiyrvr.qwyngbis.fiw
zgjzxfg.cgmrwgbzngf.gwqjjynruvgmrwgwnwfidghrfmgfmigxzhgdzfixrzyg.c
t.uiw;ghzypruvgzyygfmighmryigmigfzypwgtimrubgmrwg.oiu,ghmr m,ghrfm
sivifztyi-dzbigt.uiw,gkixpgmrdgzubgmrwgyqdtixruvgjy.qvmgzy.uvgrugwjrfi
.cgisixng.twfz yiagW.digfmruvwgzxigxizyyngui iwwzxriwg.cgyrcigrugw.di
 rx yiw,gfmigd.wfgmiyjyiwwgzubgbrwizwib,ghmr mgrug.fmixwgzxigyqoqxriw
dixiyn,gzubgrug.fmixwgwfryygzxigiufrxiyngqupu.hua

Fmighm.yigvx.qubg.cgmqdzugyrcigwiidwgf.gw.digf.gmzsigtiiugv.uig.sixgtn
fmirxgjxibi iww.xw,gt.fmgfmigmirvmfwgzubgfmigszyyinw,gzubgzyygfmruvwgf.
mzsigtiiug zxibgc.xagZ  .xbruvgf.gIsiynu,g“fmighrwigW.y.d.ugjxiw xrtib
.xbruzu iwgc.xgfmigsixngbrwfzu iwg.cgfxiiw;gzubgfmigX.dzugjxæf.xwgmzsi
bi rbibgm.hg.cfiugn.qgdzngv.gruf.gn.qxguirvmt.x’wgyzubgf.gvzfmixgfmi
z .xuwghmr mgczyyg.ugrfghrfm.qfgfxiwjzww,gzubghmzfgwmzxigtiy.uvwgf.
fmzfguirvmt.xa”gMrjj. xzfiwgmzwgisiugyicfgbrxi fr.uwgm.hghigwm.qybg qf
.qxguzryw;gfmzfgrw,gisiughrfmgfmigiubwg.cgfmigcruvixw,guirfmixgwm.xfix
u.xgy.uvixagQub.qtfibyngfmigsixngfibrqdgzubgiuuqrghmr mgjxiwqdigf.gmzsi
iomzqwfibgfmigszxrifngzubgfmigk.nwg.cgyrcigzxigzwg.ybgzwgZbzdagTqf
dzu’wg zjz rfriwgmzsiguisixgtiiugdizwqxib;gu.xgzxighigf.gkqbvig.cghmzf
mig zugb.gtngzungjxi ibiufw,gw.gyrffyigmzwgtiiugfxribagHmzfisixgmzsi
tiiugfmngczryqxiwgmrfmixf.,g“tigu.fgzccyr fib,gdng mryb,gc.xghm.gwmzyy
zwwrvugf.gfmiighmzfgfm.qgmzwfgyicfgqub.ui?”

Higdrvmfgfxng.qxgyrsiwgtngzgfm.qwzubgwrdjyigfiwfw;gzw,gc.xgruwfzu i,
fmzfgfmigwzdigwqughmr mgxrjiuwgdngtizuwgryyqdruiwgzfg.u igzgwnwfidg.c
izxfmwgyrpig.qxwagRcgRgmzbgxididtixibgfmrwgrfgh.qybgmzsigjxisiufibgw.di
drwfzpiwagFmrwghzwgu.fgfmigyrvmfgrughmr mgRgm.ibgfmidagFmigwfzxwgzxi
fmigzjioiwg.cghmzfgh.ubixcqygfxrzuvyiw!gHmzfgbrwfzufgzubgbrccixiuf
tiruvwgrugfmigszxr.qwgdzuwr.uwg.cgfmigqursixwigzxig .ufidjyzfruvgfmi
wzdig.uigzfgfmigwzdigd.diuf!gUzfqxigzubgmqdzugyrcigzxigzwgszxr.qwgzw
.qxgwisixzyg .uwfrfqfr.uwagHm.gwmzyygwznghmzfgjx.wji fgyrcig.ccixwgf.
zu.fmix?g .qybgzgvxizfixgdrxz yigfzpigjyz igfmzugc.xgqwgf.gy..pgfmx.qvm
iz mg.fmix’wginiwgc.xgzugruwfzuf?gHigwm.qybgyrsigrugzyygfmigzviwg.cgfmi
h.xybgrugzugm.qx;gzn,grugzyygfmigh.xybwg.cgfmigzviwagMrwf.xn,gJ.ifxn,
Dnfm.y.vn!—Rgpu.hg.cgu.gxizbruvg.cgzu.fmix’wgiojixriu igw.gwfzxfyruv
zubgruc.xdruvgzwgfmrwgh.qybgtia

Fmigvxizfixgjzxfg.cghmzfgdnguirvmt.xwg zyygv..bgRgtiyrisigrugdngw.qygf.
tigtzb,gzubgrcgRgxijiufg.cgzunfmruv,grfgrwgsixngyrpiyngf.gtigdngv..b
timzsr.xagHmzfgbid.ugj.wwiwwibgdigfmzfgRgtimzsibgw.ghiyy?gN.qgdzngwzn
fmighrwiwfgfmruvgn.qg zu,g.ybgdzu,—n.qghm.gmzsigyrsibgwisiufngnizxw,
u.fghrfm.qfgm.u.xg.cgzgprub,—Rgmizxgzugrxxiwrwfrtyigs.r ighmr mgrusrfiw
digzhzngcx.dgzyygfmzfag.uigviuixzfr.ugztzub.uwgfmigiufixjxrwiwg.c
zu.fmixgyrpigwfxzubibgsiwwiywa

Rgfmrupgfmzfghigdzngwzciyngfxqwfgzgv..bgbizygd.xigfmzughigb.agHigdzn
hzrsigkqwfgw.gdq mg zxig.cg.qxwiysiwgzwghigm.uiwfyngtiwf.hgiywihmixia
Uzfqxigrwgzwghiyygzbzjfibgf.g.qxghizpuiwwgzwgf.g.qxgwfxiuvfmagFmi
ru iwwzufgzuorifngzubgwfxzrug.cgw.digrwgzghiyygurvmgru qxztyigc.xdg.c
brwizwiagHigzxigdzbigf.giozvvixzfigfmigrdj.xfzu ig.cghmzfgh.xpghigb.;
zubgnifgm.hgdq mgrwgu.fgb.uigtngqw!g.x,ghmzfgrcghigmzbgtiiugfzpiugwr p?
M.hgsrvryzufghigzxi!gbifixdruibgu.fgf.gyrsigtngczrfmgrcghig zugzs.rb
rf;gzyygfmigbzngy.uvg.ugfmigzyixf,gzfgurvmfghigquhryyruvyngwzng.qx
jxznixwgzubg .ddrfg.qxwiysiwgf.gqu ixfzrufriwagW.gfm.x.qvmyngzub
wru ixiyngzxighig .djiyyibgf.gyrsi,gxisixiu ruvg.qxgyrci,gzubgbiunruv
fmigj.wwrtryrfng.cg mzuviagFmrwgrwgfmig.uynghzn,ghigwzn;gtqfgfmixigzxi
zwgdzunghznwgzwgfmixig zugtigbxzhugxzbrrgcx.dg.uig iufxiagZyyg mzuvigrw
zgdrxz yigf.g .ufidjyzfi;gtqfgrfgrwgzgdrxz yighmr mgrwgfzpruvgjyz i
isixngruwfzufag .ucq rqwgwzrb,g“F.gpu.hgfmzfghigpu.hghmzfghigpu.h,gzub
fmzfghigb.gu.fgpu.hghmzfghigb.gu.fgpu.h,gfmzfgrwgfxqigpu.hyibvia”gHmiu
.uigdzugmzwgxibq ibgzgcz fg.cgfmigrdzvruzfr.ugf.gtigzgcz fgf.gmrw
qubixwfzubruv,gRgc.xiwiigfmzfgzyygdiugzfgyiuvfmgiwfztyrwmgfmirxgyrsiw
.ugfmzfgtzwrwa



Yifgqwg .uwrbixgc.xgzgd.diufghmzfgd.wfg.cgfmigfx.qtyigzubgzuorifnghmr m
Rgmzsigxicixxibgf.grwgzt.qf,gzubgm.hgdq mgrfgrwgui iwwzxngfmzfghigti
fx.qtyib,g.x,gzfgyizwf,g zxicqyagRfgh.qybgtigw.digzbszufzvigf.gyrsigz
jxrdrfrsigzubgcx.ufrixgyrci,gfm.qvmgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgzug.qfhzxb
 rsryrezfr.u,grcg.uyngf.gyizxughmzfgzxigfmigvx.wwgui iwwzxriwg.cgyrci
zubghmzfgdifm.bwgmzsigtiiugfzpiugf.g.tfzrugfmid;g.xgisiugf.gy..pg.six
fmig.ybgbzn-t..pwg.cgfmigdix mzufw,gf.gwiighmzfgrfghzwgfmzfgdiugd.wf
 .dd.uyngt.qvmfgzfgfmigwf.xiw,ghmzfgfmingwf.xib,gfmzfgrw,ghmzfgzxigfmi
vx.wwiwfgvx. ixriwagC.xgfmigrdjx.sidiufwg.cgzviwgmzsigmzbgtqfgyrffyi
rucyqiu ig.ugfmigiwwiufrzygyzhwg.cgdzu’wgiorwfiu i;gzwg.qxgwpiyif.uw,
jx.tztyn,gzxigu.fgf.gtigbrwfruvqrwmibgcx.dgfm.wig.cg.qxgzu iwf.xwa

Tngfmigh.xbw,g_ui iwwzxng.cgyrci_,gRgdizughmzfisix,g.cgzyygfmzfgdzu
.tfzruwgtngmrwg.hugioixfr.uw,gmzwgtiiugcx.dgfmigcrxwf,g.xgcx.dgy.uvgqwi
mzwgti .di,gw.grdj.xfzufgf.gmqdzugyrcigfmzfgcih,grcgzun,ghmifmixgcx.d
wzszviuiww,g.xgj.sixfn,g.xgjmry.w.jmn,gisixgzffidjfgf.gb.ghrfm.qfgrfa
F.gdzung xizfqxiwgfmixigrwgrugfmrwgwiuwigtqfg.uigui iwwzxng.cgyrci,
C..bagF.gfmigtrw.ug.cgfmigjxzrxrigrfgrwgzgcihgru miwg.cgjzyzfztyi
vxzww,ghrfmghzfixgf.gbxrup;gquyiwwgmigwiipwgfmigWmiyfixg.cgfmigc.xiwf
.xgfmigd.qufzru’wgwmzb.hagU.uig.cgfmigtxqfig xizfr.ugxilqrxiwgd.xigfmzu
C..bgzubgWmiyfixagFmigui iwwzxriwg.cgyrcigc.xgdzugrugfmrwg yrdzfigdzn,
z  qxzfiyngiu.qvm,gtigbrwfxrtqfibgqubixgfmigwisixzygmizbwg.cgC..b,
Wmiyfix,g y.fmruv,gzubgCqiy;gc.xgu.fgfryyghigmzsigwi qxibgfmiwigzxighi
jxijzxibgf.giufixfzrugfmigfxqigjx.tyidwg.cgyrcighrfmgcxiib.dgzubgz
jx.wji fg.cgwq  iwwagDzugmzwgrusiufib,gu.fg.uyngm.qwiw,gtqfg y.fmiwgzub
 ..pibgc..b;gzubgj.wwrtyngcx.dgfmigz  rbiufzygbrw .sixng.cgfmighzxdfm
.cgcrxi,gzubgfmig .uwilqiufgqwig.cgrf,gzfgcrxwfgzgyqoqxn,gzx.wigfmi
jxiwiufgui iwwrfngf.gwrfgtngrfagHig.twixsig zfwgzubgb.vwgz lqrxruvgfmi
wzdigwi .ubguzfqxiagTngjx.jixgWmiyfixgzubg y.fmruvghigyivrfrdzfiyn
xifzrug.qxg.hugrufixuzygmizf;gtqfghrfmgzugio iwwg.cgfmiwi,g.xg.cgCqiy,
fmzfgrw,ghrfmgzugiofixuzygmizfgvxizfixgfmzug.qxg.hugrufixuzy,gdzngu.f
 ..pixngjx.jixyngtigwzrbgf.gtivru?gBzxhru,gfmiguzfqxzyrwf,gwznwg.cgfmi
rumztrfzufwg.cgFrixxzgbiygCqiv.,gfmzfghmryigmrwg.hugjzxfn,ghm.ghixi
hiyyg y.fmibgzubgwrffruvg y.wigf.gzgcrxi,ghixigczxgcx.dgf..ghzxd,gfmiwi
uzpibgwzszviw,ghm.ghixigczxfmixg.cc,ghixig.twixsib,gf.gmrwgvxizf
wqxjxrwi,g“f.gtigwfxizdruvghrfmgjixwjrxzfr.ugzfgqubixv.ruvgwq mgz
x.zwfruva”gW.,ghigzxigf.yb,gfmigUihgM.yyzubixgv.iwguzpibghrfmgrdjqurfn,
hmryigfmigIqx.jizugwmrsixwgrugmrwg y.fmiwagRwgrfgrdj.wwrtyigf.g .dtrui
fmigmzxbruiwwg.cgfmiwigwzszviwghrfmgfmigrufiyyi fqzyuiwwg.cgfmi
 rsryreibgdzu?gZ  .xbruvgf.gYritrv,gdzu’wgt.bngrwgzgwf.si,gzubgc..bgfmi
cqiyghmr mgpiijwgqjgfmigrufixuzyg .dtqwfr.ugrugfmigyquvwagRug .yb
hizfmixghigizfgd.xi,grughzxdgyiwwagFmigzurdzygmizfgrwgfmigxiwqyfg.cgz
wy.hg .dtqwfr.u,gzubgbrwizwigzubgbizfmgfzpigjyz ighmiugfmrwgrwgf..
xzjrb;g.xgc.xghzufg.cgcqiy,g.xgcx.dgw.digbici fgrugfmigbxzqvmf,gfmi
crxigv.iwg.qfag.cg .qxwigfmigsrfzygmizfgrwgu.fgf.gtig .uc.qubibghrfm
crxi;gtqfgw.gdq mgc.xgzuzy.vnagRfgzjjizxw,gfmixic.xi,gcx.dgfmigzt.si
yrwf,gfmzfgfmigiojxiwwr.u,g_zurdzygyrci_,grwguizxyngwnu.und.qwghrfmgfmi
iojxiwwr.u,g_zurdzygmizf_;gc.xghmryigC..bgdzngtigxivzxbibgzwgfmigCqiy
hmr mgpiijwgqjgfmigcrxighrfmrugqw,—zubgCqiygwixsiwg.uyngf.gjxijzxigfmzf
C..bg.xgf.gru xizwigfmighzxdfmg.cg.qxgt.briwgtngzbbrfr.ugcx.d
hrfm.qf,—Wmiyfixgzubg y.fmruvgzyw.gwixsig.uyngf.gxifzrugfmig_mizf_gfmqw
viuixzfibgzubgztw.xtiba

Fmigvxzubgui iwwrfn,gfmiu,gc.xg.qxgt.briw,grwgf.gpiijghzxd,gf.gpiijgfmi
srfzygmizfgrugqwagHmzfgjzruwghigz  .xbruvyngfzpi,gu.fg.uynghrfmg.qx
C..b,gzubg y.fmruv,gzubgWmiyfix,gtqfghrfmg.qxgtibw,ghmr mgzxig.qx
urvmf- y.fmiw,gx.ttruvgfmiguiwfwgzubgtxizwfwg.cgtrxbwgf.gjxijzxigfmrw
wmiyfixghrfmrugzgwmiyfix,gzwgfmigd.yigmzwgrfwgtibg.cgvxzwwgzubgyizsiw
zfgfmigiubg.cgrfwgtqxx.h!gFmigj..xgdzugrwgh.ufgf.g .djyzrugfmzfgfmrwgrw
zg .ybgh.xyb;gzubgf.g .yb,gu.gyiwwgjmnwr zygfmzugw. rzy,ghigxicix
brxi fyngzgvxizfgjzxfg.cg.qxgzrywagFmigwqddix,grugw.dig yrdzfiw,gdzpiw
j.wwrtyigf.gdzugzgw.xfg.cgIynwrzugyrciagCqiy,gio ijfgf.g ..pgmrwgC..b,
rwgfmiugquui iwwzxn;gfmigwqugrwgmrwgcrxi,gzubgdzung.cgfmigcxqrfwgzxi
wqccr riufyng ..pibgtngrfwgxznw;ghmryigC..bgviuixzyyngrwgd.xigszxr.qw,
zubgd.xigizwryng.tfzruib,gzubg y.fmruvgzubgWmiyfixgzxighm.yyng.xgmzyc
quui iwwzxnagZfgfmigjxiwiufgbzn,gzubgrugfmrwg .qufxn,gzwgRgcrubgtngdn
.hugiojixriu i,gzgcihgrdjyidiufw,gzgpurci,gzugzoi,gzgwjzbi,gz
hmiiytzxx.h,g& a,gzubgc.xgfmigwfqbr.qw,gyzdjyrvmf,gwfzfr.uixn,gzub
z  iwwgf.gzgcihgt..pw,gxzupguiofgf.gui iwwzxriw,gzubg zugzyygti
.tfzruibgzfgzgfxrcyruvg .wfagNifgw.di,gu.fghrwi,gv.gf.gfmig.fmixgwrbi
.cgfmigvy.ti,gf.gtzxtzx.qwgzubgqumizyfmngxivr.uw,gzubgbis.figfmidwiysiw
f.gfxzbigc.xgfiug.xgfhiufngnizxw,grug.xbixgfmzfgfmingdzngyrsi,—fmzfgrw,
piijg .dc.xfztynghzxd,—zubgbrigrugUihgIuvyzubgzfgyzwfagFmigyqoqxr.qwyn
xr mgzxigu.fgwrdjyngpijfg .dc.xfztynghzxd,gtqfgquuzfqxzyyngm.f;gzwgR
rdjyribgtic.xi,gfmingzxig ..pib,g.cg .qxwig_àgyzgd.bi_a

D.wfg.cgfmigyqoqxriw,gzubgdzung.cgfmigw.g zyyibg .dc.xfwg.cgyrci,gzxi
u.fg.uyngu.fgrubrwjiuwztyi,gtqfgj.wrfrsigmrubxzu iwgf.gfmigiyiszfr.ug.c
dzuprubagHrfmgxiwji fgf.gyqoqxriwgzubg .dc.xfw,gfmighrwiwfgmzsigisix
yrsibgzgd.xigwrdjyigzubgdizvxigyrcigfmzugfmigj..xagFmigzu riuf
jmry.w.jmixw,g mruiwi,gMrub..,gJixwrzu,gzubgVxiip,ghixigzg yzwwgfmzu
hmr mgu.uigmzwgtiiugj..xixgrug.qfhzxbgxr miw,gu.uigw.gxr mgrugruhzxba
Higpu.hgu.fgdq mgzt.qfgfmidagRfgrwgxidzxpztyigfmzfg_hi_gpu.hgw.gdq mg.c
fmidgzwghigb.agFmigwzdigrwgfxqig.cgfmigd.xigd.bixugxic.xdixwgzub
tiuicz f.xwg.cgfmirxgxz iagU.uig zugtigzugrdjzxfrzyg.xghrwig.twixsixg.c
mqdzugyrcigtqfgcx.dgfmigszufzvigvx.qubg.cghmzfghigwm.qybg zyygs.yqufzxn
j.sixfnag.cgzgyrcig.cgyqoqxngfmigcxqrfgrwgyqoqxn,ghmifmixgru
zvxr qyfqxi,g.xg .ddix i,g.xgyrfixzfqxi,g.xgzxfagFmixigzxigu.hzbznw
jx.ciww.xwg.cgjmry.w.jmn,gtqfgu.fgjmry.w.jmixwagNifgrfgrwgzbdrxztyigf.
jx.ciwwgti zqwigrfghzwg.u igzbdrxztyigf.gyrsiagF.gtigzgjmry.w.jmixgrw
u.fgdixiyngf.gmzsigwqtfyigfm.qvmfw,gu.xgisiugf.gc.qubgzgw m..y,gtqfgw.
f.gy.sighrwb.dgzwgf.gyrsigz  .xbruvgf.grfwgbr fzfiw,gzgyrcig.c
wrdjyr rfn,grubijiubiu i,gdzvuzurdrfn,gzubgfxqwfagRfgrwgf.gw.ysigw.di
.cgfmigjx.tyidwg.cgyrci,gu.fg.uyngfmi.xifr zyyn,gtqfgjxz fr zyynagFmi
wq  iwwg.cgvxizfgw m.yzxwgzubgfmrupixwgrwg .dd.uyngzg .qxfrix-yrpi
wq  iww,gu.fgpruvyn,gu.fgdzuynagFmingdzpigwmrcfgf.gyrsigdixiyngtn
 .uc.xdrfn,gjxz fr zyyngzwgfmirxgczfmixwgbrb,gzubgzxigrugu.gwiuwigfmi
jx.viurf.xwg.cgzgu.tyixgxz ig.cgdiuagTqfghmngb.gdiugbiviuixzfigisix?
Hmzfgdzpiwgczdryriwgxqug.qf?gHmzfgrwgfmiguzfqxig.cgfmigyqoqxnghmr m
iuixszfiwgzubgbiwfx.nwguzfr.uw?gZxighigwqxigfmzfgfmixigrwgu.uig.cgrfgru
.qxg.hugyrsiw?gFmigjmry.w.jmixgrwgrugzbszu ig.cgmrwgzvigisiugrugfmi
.qfhzxbgc.xdg.cgmrwgyrciagMigrwgu.fgcib,gwmiyfixib,g y.fmib,ghzxdib,
yrpigmrwg .ufidj.xzxriwagM.hg zugzgdzugtigzgjmry.w.jmixgzubgu.f
dzrufzrugmrwgsrfzygmizfgtngtiffixgdifm.bwgfmzug.fmixgdiu?

Hmiugzgdzugrwghzxdibgtngfmigwisixzygd.biwghmr mgRgmzsigbiw xrtib,ghmzf
b.iwgmighzufguiof?gWqxiyngu.fgd.xighzxdfmg.cgfmigwzdigprub,gzwgd.xigzub
xr mixgc..b,gyzxvixgzubgd.xigwjyiubrbgm.qwiw,gcruixgzubgd.xigztqubzuf
 y.fmruv,gd.xiguqdix.qwgru iwwzufgzubgm.ffixgcrxiw,gzubgfmigyrpiagHmiu
migmzwg.tfzruibgfm.wigfmruvwghmr mgzxigui iwwzxngf.gyrci,gfmixigrw
zu.fmixgzyfixuzfrsigfmzugf.g.tfzrugfmigwqjixcyqrfriw;gzubgfmzfgrw,gf.
zbsiufqxig.ugyrcigu.h,gmrwgsz zfr.ugcx.dgmqdtyixgf.rygmzsruvg .ddiu iba
Fmigw.ry,grfgzjjizxw,grwgwqrfibgf.gfmigwiib,gc.xgrfgmzwgwiufgrfw
xzbr yigb.huhzxb,gzubgrfgdzngu.hgwiubgrfwgwm..fgqjhzxbgzyw.ghrfm
 .ucrbiu iagHmngmzwgdzugx..fibgmrdwiycgfmqwgcrxdyngrugfmigizxfm,gtqf
fmzfgmigdzngxrwigrugfmigwzdigjx.j.xfr.ugruf.gfmigmizsiuwgzt.si?—c.xgfmi
u.tyixgjyzufwgzxigszyqibgc.xgfmigcxqrfgfmingtizxgzfgyzwfgrugfmigzrxgzub
yrvmf,gczxgcx.dgfmigvx.qub,gzubgzxigu.fgfxizfibgyrpigfmigmqdtyix
iw qyiufw,ghmr m,gfm.qvmgfmingdzngtigtriuurzyw,gzxig qyfrszfibg.uyn
fryygfmingmzsigjixci fibgfmirxgx..f,gzubg.cfiug qfgb.hugzfgf.jgc.xgfmrw
jqxj.wi,gw.gfmzfgd.wfgh.qybgu.fgpu.hgfmidgrugfmirxgcy.hixruvgwizw.ua

Rgb.gu.fgdizugf.gjxiw xrtigxqyiwgf.gwfx.uvgzubgszyrzufguzfqxiw,ghm.
hryygdrubgfmirxg.hugzcczrxwghmifmixgrugmizsiug.xgmiyy,gzubgjix mzu i
tqrybgd.xigdzvurcr iufyngzubgwjiubgd.xigyzsrwmyngfmzugfmigxr miwf,
hrfm.qfgisixgrdj.sixrwmruvgfmidwiysiw,gu.fgpu.hruvgm.hgfmingyrsi,—rc,
rubiib,gfmixigzxigzungwq m,gzwgmzwgtiiugbxizdib;gu.xgf.gfm.wighm.gcrub
fmirxgiu .qxzvidiufgzubgruwjrxzfr.ugrugjxi rwiyngfmigjxiwiufg .ubrfr.u
.cgfmruvw,gzubg mixrwmgrfghrfmgfmigc.ubuiwwgzubgiufmqwrzwdg.c
y.sixw,—zub,gf.gw.digiofiuf,gRgxi p.ugdnwiycgrugfmrwguqdtix;gRgb.gu.f
wjizpgf.gfm.wighm.gzxighiyygidjy.nib,grughmzfisixg rx qdwfzu iw,gzub
fmingpu.hghmifmixgfmingzxighiyygidjy.nibg.xgu.f;—tqfgdzruyngf.gfmigdzww
.cgdiughm.gzxigbrw .ufiufib,gzubgrbyng .djyzruruvg.cgfmigmzxbuiwwg.c
fmirxgy.fg.xg.cgfmigfrdiw,ghmiugfmingdrvmfgrdjx.sigfmidagFmixigzxigw.di
hm.g .djyzrugd.wfgiuixvifr zyyngzubgru .uw.yztyng.cgzun,gti zqwigfmin
zxi,gzwgfmingwzn,gb.ruvgfmirxgbqfnagRgzyw.gmzsigrugdngdrubgfmzf
wiidruvynghizyfmn,gtqfgd.wfgfixxrtyngrdj.sixrwmibg yzwwg.cgzyy,ghm.
mzsigz  qdqyzfibgbx.ww,gtqfgpu.hgu.fgm.hgf.gqwigrf,g.xgvifgxrbg.cgrf,
zubgfmqwgmzsigc.xvibgfmirxg.hugv.ybiug.xgwrysixgciffixwa



RcgRgwm.qybgzffidjfgf.gfiyygm.hgRgmzsigbiwrxibgf.gwjiubgdngyrcigru
nizxwgjzwf,grfgh.qybgjx.tztyngwqxjxrwigfm.wig.cgdngxizbixwghm.gzxi
w.dihmzfgz lqzrufibghrfmgrfwgz fqzygmrwf.xn;grfgh.qybg ixfzruyn
zwf.urwmgfm.wighm.gpu.hgu.fmruvgzt.qfgrfagRghryyg.uyngmrufgzfgw.dig.c
fmigiufixjxrwiwghmr mgRgmzsig mixrwmiba

Rugzunghizfmix,gzfgzungm.qxg.cgfmigbzng.xgurvmf,gRgmzsigtiiugzuor.qwgf.
rdjx.sigfmigur pg.cgfrdi,gzubgu.f mgrfg.ugdngwfr pgf..;gf.gwfzubg.ugfmi
diifruvg.cgfh.gifixurfriw,gfmigjzwfgzubgcqfqxi,ghmr mgrwgjxi rwiyngfmi
jxiwiufgd.diuf;gf.gf.igfmzfgyruiagN.qghryygjzxb.ugw.dig.tw qxrfriw,gc.x
fmixigzxigd.xigwi xifwgrugdngfxzbigfmzugrugd.wfgdiu’w,gzubgnifgu.f
s.yqufzxryngpijf,gtqfgruwijzxztyigcx.dgrfwgsixnguzfqxiagRgh.qybgvyzbyn
fiyygzyygfmzfgRgpu.hgzt.qfgrf,gzubguisixgjzrufg“U.gZbdrffzu i”g.ugdn
vzfia

Rgy.uvgzv.gy.wfgzgm.qub,gzgtzngm.xwi,gzubgzgfqxfyi-b.si,gzubgzdgwfryy
.ugfmirxgfxzryagDzungzxigfmigfxzsiyyixwgRgmzsigwj.piug .u ixuruvgfmid,
biw xrtruvgfmirxgfxz pwgzubghmzfg zyywgfmingzuwhixibgf.agRgmzsigdifg.ui
.xgfh.ghm.gmzbgmizxbgfmigm.qub,gzubgfmigfxzdjg.cgfmigm.xwi,gzubgisiu
wiiugfmigb.sigbrwzjjizxgtimrubgzg y.qb,gzubgfmingwiidibgzwgzuor.qwgf.
xi .sixgfmidgzwgrcgfmingmzbgy.wfgfmidgfmidwiysiwa

F.gzufr rjzfi,gu.fgfmigwquxrwigzubgfmigbzhugdixiyn,gtqf,grcgj.wwrtyi,
Uzfqxigmixwiyc!gM.hgdzungd.xuruvw,gwqddixgzubghrufix,gtic.xignifgzun
uirvmt.xghzwgwfrxxruvgzt.qfgmrwgtqwruiww,gmzsigRgtiiugzt.qfgdrui!gU.
b.qtf,gdzung.cgdngf.huwdiugmzsigdifgdigxifqxuruvgcx.dgfmrwgiufixjxrwi,
czxdixwgwfzxfruvgc.xgT.wf.ugrugfmigfhryrvmf,g.xgh..b m.jjixwgv.ruvgf.
fmirxgh.xpagRfgrwgfxqi,gRguisixgzwwrwfibgfmigwqugdzfixrzyyngrugmrw
xrwruv,gtqf,gb.qtfgu.f,grfghzwg.cgfmigyzwfgrdj.xfzu ig.uyngf.gti
jxiwiufgzfgrfa

W.gdzungzqfqdu,gzn,gzubghrufixgbznw,gwjiufg.qfwrbigfmigf.hu,gfxnruvgf.
mizxghmzfghzwgrugfmighrub,gf.gmizxgzubg zxxngrfgiojxiww!gRghiyy-urvm
wqupgzyygdng zjrfzygrugrf,gzubgy.wfgdng.hugtxizfmgruf.gfmigtzxvzru,
xquuruvgrugfmigcz ig.cgrfagRcgrfgmzbg .u ixuibgirfmixg.cgfmigj.yrfr zy
jzxfriw,gbijiubgqj.ugrf,grfgh.qybgmzsigzjjizxibgrugfmigVzeiffighrfmgfmi
izxyriwfgrufiyyrviu iagZfg.fmixgfrdiwghzf mruvgcx.dgfmig.twixszf.xng.c
w.dig yrccg.xgfxii,gf.gfiyivxzjmgzunguihgzxxrszy;g.xghzrfruvgzfgisiuruv
.ugfmigmryy-f.jwgc.xgfmigwpngf.gczyy,gfmzfgRgdrvmfg zf mgw.difmruv,
fm.qvmgRguisixg zqvmfgdq m,gzubgfmzf,gdzuuz-hrwi,gh.qybgbrww.ysigzvzru
rugfmigwqua

C.xgzgy.uvgfrdigRghzwgxij.xfixgf.gzgk.qxuzy,g.cgu.gsixnghrbi
 rx qyzfr.u,ghm.wigibrf.xgmzwguisixgnifgwiiugcrfgf.gjxrufgfmigtqypg.c
dng .ufxrtqfr.uw,gzub,gzwgrwgf..g .dd.ughrfmghxrfixw,gRgv.fg.uyngdn
yzt.xgc.xgdngjzruwagM.hisix,grugfmrwg zwigdngjzruwghixigfmirxg.hu
xihzxba

C.xgdzungnizxwgRghzwgwiyc-zjj.rufibgruwji f.xg.cgwu.hgwf.xdwgzubgxzru
wf.xdw,gzubgbrbgdngbqfngczrfmcqyyn;gwqxsin.x,grcgu.fg.cgmrvmhznw,gfmiu
.cgc.xiwfgjzfmwgzubgzyygz x.ww-y.fgx.qfiw,gpiijruvgfmidg.jiu,gzub
xzsruiwgtxrbvibgzubgjzwwztyigzfgzyygwizw.uw,ghmixigfmigjqtyr gmiiygmzb
fiwfrcribgf.gfmirxgqfryrfna

Rgmzsigy..pibgzcfixgfmighrybgwf. pg.cgfmigf.hu,ghmr mgvrsigzgczrfmcqy
mixbwdzugzgv..bgbizyg.cgfx.qtyigtngyizjruvgciu iw;gzubgRgmzsigmzbgzu
inigf.gfmigqucxilqiufibgu..pwgzubg .xuixwg.cgfmigczxd;gfm.qvmgRgbrbgu.f
zyhznwgpu.hghmifmixgK.uzwg.xgW.y.d.ugh.xpibgrugzgjzxfr qyzxgcriyb
f.-bzn;gfmzfghzwgu.uig.cgdngtqwruiwwagRgmzsighzfixibgfmigxib
mq pyitixxn,gfmigwzubg mixxngzubgfmiguiffyigfxii,gfmigxibgjruigzubgfmi
tyz pgzwm,gfmighmrfigvxzjigzubgfmigniyy.hgsr.yif,ghmr mgdrvmfgmzsi
hrfmixibgiywigrugbxngwizw.uwa

Rugwm.xf,gRghiufg.ugfmqwgc.xgzgy.uvgfrdi,gRgdzngwzngrfghrfm.qf
t.zwfruv,gczrfmcqyyngdrubruvgdngtqwruiww,gfryygrfgti zdigd.xigzubgd.xi
isrbiufgfmzfgdngf.huwdiugh.qybgu.fgzcfixgzyygzbdrfgdigruf.gfmigyrwfg.c
f.hug.ccr ixw,gu.xgdzpigdngjyz igzgwrui qxighrfmgzgd.bixzfigzyy.hzu ia
Dngz  .qufw,ghmr mgRg zugwhizxgf.gmzsigpijfgczrfmcqyyn,gRgmzsi,grubiib,
uisixgv.fgzqbrfib,gwfryygyiwwgz  ijfib,gwfryygyiwwgjzrbgzubgwiffyiba
M.hisix,gRgmzsigu.fgwifgdngmizxfg.ugfmzfa

U.fgy.uvgwru i,gzgwfx.yyruvgRubrzughiufgf.gwiyygtzwpifwgzfgfmigm.qwig.c
zghiyy-pu.hugyzhnixgrugdnguirvmt.xm..bag“B.gn.qghrwmgf.gtqngzun
tzwpifw?”gmigzwpibag“U.,ghigb.gu.fghzufgzun,”ghzwgfmigxijynag“Hmzf!”
io yzrdibgfmigRubrzugzwgmighiufg.qfgfmigvzfi,g“b.gn.qgdizugf.gwfzxsi
qw?”gMzsruvgwiiugmrwgrubqwfxr.qwghmrfiguirvmt.xwgw.ghiyyg.cc,—fmzfgfmi
yzhnixgmzbg.uyngf.ghizsigzxvqdiufw,gzubgtngw.digdzvr ,ghizyfmgzub
wfzubruvgc.yy.hib,gmigmzbgwzrbgf.gmrdwiyc;gRghryygv.gruf.gtqwruiww;gR
hryyghizsigtzwpifw;grfgrwgzgfmruvghmr mgRg zugb.agFmrupruvgfmzfghmiugmi
mzbgdzbigfmigtzwpifwgmigh.qybgmzsigb.uigmrwgjzxf,gzubgfmiugrfgh.qybgti
fmighmrfigdzu’wgf.gtqngfmidagMigmzbgu.fgbrw .sixibgfmzfgrfghzw
ui iwwzxngc.xgmrdgf.gdzpigrfgh.xfmgfmig.fmix’wghmryigf.gtqngfmid,g.xgzf
yizwfgdzpigmrdgfmrupgfmzfgrfghzwgw.,g.xgf.gdzpigw.difmruvgiywighmr mgrf
h.qybgtigh.xfmgmrwghmryigf.gtqnagRgf..gmzbgh.siugzgprubg.cgtzwpifg.cgz
biyr zfigfiofqxi,gtqfgRgmzbgu.fgdzbigrfgh.xfmgzung.ui’wghmryigf.gtqn
fmidagNifgu.fgfmigyiww,grugdng zwi,gbrbgRgfmrupgrfgh.xfmgdnghmryigf.
hizsigfmid,gzubgruwfizbg.cgwfqbnruvgm.hgf.gdzpigrfgh.xfmgdiu’wghmryigf.
tqngdngtzwpifw,gRgwfqbribgxzfmixgm.hgf.gzs.rbgfmigui iwwrfng.cgwiyyruv
fmidagFmigyrcighmr mgdiugjxzrwigzubgxivzxbgzwgwq  iwwcqygrwgtqfg.ui
prubagHmngwm.qybghigiozvvixzfigzung.uigprubgzfgfmigiojiuwig.cgfmi
.fmixw?

Crubruvgfmzfgdngciyy.h- rfreiuwghixigu.fgyrpiyngf.g.ccixgdigzungx..dgru
fmig .qxfgm.qwi,g.xgzung qxz ng.xgyrsruvgzunghmixigiywi,gtqfgRgdqwf
wmrcfgc.xgdnwiyc,gRgfqxuibgdngcz igd.xigio yqwrsiyngfmzugisixgf.gfmi
h..bw,ghmixigRghzwgtiffixgpu.huagRgbifixdruibgf.gv.gruf.gtqwruiwwgzf
.u i,gzubgu.fghzrfgf.gz lqrxigfmigqwqzyg zjrfzy,gqwruvgwq mgwyiubix
dizuwgzwgRgmzbgzyxizbngv.fagDngjqxj.wigrugv.ruvgf.gHzybiugJ.ubghzwgu.f
f.gyrsig mizjyngu.xgf.gyrsigbizxyngfmixi,gtqfgf.gfxzuwz fgw.digjxrszfi
tqwruiwwghrfmgfmigcihiwfg.twfz yiw;gf.gtigmrubixibgcx.dgz  .djyrwmruv
hmr mgc.xghzufg.cgzgyrffyig .dd.ugwiuwi,gzgyrffyigiufixjxrwigzub
tqwruiwwgfzyiuf,gzjjizxibgu.fgw.gwzbgzwgc..yrwma

Rgmzsigzyhznwgiubizs.xibgf.gz lqrxigwfxr fgtqwruiwwgmztrfw;gfmingzxi
rubrwjiuwztyigf.gisixngdzuagRcgn.qxgfxzbigrwghrfmgfmig iyiwfrzygIdjrxi,
fmiugw.digwdzyyg .qufruvgm.qwig.ugfmig .zwf,grugw.digWzyidgmzxt.x,ghryy
tigcrofqxigiu.qvmagN.qghryygioj.xfgwq mgzxfr yiwgzwgfmig .qufxn
zcc.xbw,gjqxiynguzfrsigjx.bq fw,gdq mgr igzubgjruigfrdtixgzubgzgyrffyi
vxzurfi,gzyhznwgruguzfrsigt.ff.dwagFmiwighryygtigv..bgsiufqxiwagF.
.sixwiigzyygfmigbifzrywgn.qxwiycgrugjixw.u;gf.gtigzfg.u igjry.fgzub
 zjfzru,gzubg.huixgzubgqubixhxrfix;gf.gtqngzubgwiyygzubgpiijgfmi
z  .qufw;gf.gxizbgisixngyiffixgxi irsib,gzubghxrfig.xgxizbgisixngyiffix
wiuf;gf.gwqjixrufiubgfmigbrw mzxvig.cgrdj.xfwgurvmfgzubgbzn;gf.gtigqj.u
dzungjzxfwg.cgfmig .zwfgzyd.wfgzfgfmigwzdigfrdi;—.cfiugfmigxr miwf
cxirvmfghryygtigbrw mzxvibgqj.ugzgKixwingwm.xi;—f.gtign.qxg.hu
fiyivxzjm,gquhizxribyngwhiijruvgfmigm.xre.u,gwjizpruvgzyygjzwwruv
siwwiywgt.qubg .zwfhrwi;gf.gpiijgqjgzgwfizbngbiwjzf mg.cg .dd.brfriw,
c.xgfmigwqjjyng.cgwq mgzgbrwfzufgzubgio.xtrfzufgdzxpif;gf.gpiij
n.qxwiycgruc.xdibg.cgfmigwfzfig.cgfmigdzxpifw,gjx.wji fwg.cghzxgzub
jiz igisixnghmixi,gzubgzufr rjzfigfmigfiubiu riwg.cgfxzbigzub
 rsryrezfr.u,—fzpruvgzbszufzvig.cgfmigxiwqyfwg.cgzyygiojy.xruv
iojibrfr.uw,gqwruvguihgjzwwzviwgzubgzyygrdjx.sidiufwgru
uzsrvzfr.u;— mzxfwgf.gtigwfqbrib,gfmigj.wrfr.ug.cgxiicwgzubguihgyrvmfw
zubgtq.nwgf.gtigzw ixfzruib,gzubgisix,gzubgisix,gfmigy.vzxrfmdr gfztyiw
f.gtig .xxi fib,gc.xgtngfmigixx.xg.cgw.dig zy qyzf.xgfmigsiwwiyg.cfiu
wjyrfwgqj.ugzgx. pgfmzfgwm.qybgmzsigxiz mibgzgcxriubyngjrix,—fmixigrw
fmigquf.ybgczfig.cgYzgJix.qwi;—qursixwzygw riu igf.gtigpijfgjz ighrfm,
wfqbnruvgfmigyrsiwg.cgzyygvxizfgbrw .sixixwgzubguzsrvzf.xw,gvxizf
zbsiufqxixwgzubgdix mzufw,gcx.dgMzuu.gzubgfmigJmœur rzuwgb.hugf.g.qx
bzn;grugcrui,gz  .qufg.cgwf. pgf.gtigfzpiugcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gf.gpu.h
m.hgn.qgwfzubagRfgrwgzgyzt.xgf.gfzwpgfmigcz qyfriwg.cgzgdzu,—wq m
jx.tyidwg.cgjx.crfgzubgy.ww,g.cgrufixiwf,g.cgfzxigzubgfxif,gzubgvzqvruv
.cgzyygprubwgrugrf,gzwgbidzubgzgqursixwzygpu.hyibvia

Rgmzsigfm.qvmfgfmzfgHzybiugJ.ubgh.qybgtigzgv..bgjyz igc.xgtqwruiww,gu.f
w.yiyng.ugz  .qufg.cgfmigxzryx.zbgzubgfmigr igfxzbi;grfg.ccixw
zbszufzviwghmr mgrfgdzngu.fgtigv..bgj.yr ngf.gbrsqyvi;grfgrwgzgv..b
j.xfgzubgzgv..bgc.qubzfr.uagU.gUiszgdzxwmiwgf.gtigcryyib;gfm.qvmgn.q
dqwfgisixnghmixigtqrybg.ugjryiwg.cgn.qxg.hugbxrsruvagRfgrwgwzrbgfmzfgz
cy..b-frbi,ghrfmgzghiwfixynghrub,gzubgr igrugfmigUisz,gh.qybgwhiijgWfa
Jifixwtqxvgcx.dgfmigcz ig.cgfmigizxfma



Zwgfmrwgtqwruiwwghzwgf.gtigiufixibgruf.ghrfm.qfgfmigqwqzyg zjrfzy,grf
dzngu.fgtigizwngf.g .uki fqxighmixigfm.wigdizuw,gfmzfghryygwfryygti
rubrwjiuwztyigf.gisixngwq mgqubixfzpruv,ghixigf.gtig.tfzruibagZwgc.x
 y.fmruv,gf.g .digzfg.u igf.gfmigjxz fr zygjzxfg.cgfmiglqiwfr.u,
jixmzjwghigzxigyibg.cfiuixgtngfmigy.sig.cgu.siyfn,gzubgzgxivzxbgc.xgfmi
.jrur.uwg.cgdiu,grugjx. qxruvgrf,gfmzugtngzgfxqigqfryrfnagYifgmrdghm.
mzwgh.xpgf.gb.gxi .yyi fgfmzfgfmig.tki fg.cg y.fmruvgrw,gcrxwf,gf.
xifzrugfmigsrfzygmizf,gzubgwi .ubyn,grugfmrwgwfzfig.cgw. rifn,gf.g .six
uzpibuiww,gzubgmigdzngkqbvigm.hgdq mg.cgzungui iwwzxng.xgrdj.xfzufgh.xp
dzngtigz  .djyrwmibghrfm.qfgzbbruvgf.gmrwghzxbx.tiagPruvwgzubglqiiuw
hm.ghizxgzgwqrfgtqfg.u i,gfm.qvmgdzbigtngw.digfzry.xg.xgbxiwwdzpixgf.
fmirxgdzkiwfriw,g zuu.fgpu.hgfmig .dc.xfg.cghizxruvgzgwqrfgfmzfgcrfwa
Fmingzxigu.gtiffixgfmzugh..biugm.xwiwgf.gmzuvgfmig yizug y.fmiwg.ua
Isixngbzng.qxgvzxdiufwgti .digd.xigzwwrdryzfibgf.g.qxwiysiw,gxi irsruv
fmigrdjxiwwg.cgfmighizxix’wg mzxz fix,gqufryghigmiwrfzfigf.gyzngfmid
zwrbi,ghrfm.qfgwq mgbiyzngzubgdibr zygzjjyrzu iwgzubgw.digwq m
w.yidurfngisiugzwg.qxgt.briwagU.gdzugisixgwf..bgfmigy.hixgrugdn
iwfrdzfr.ugc.xgmzsruvgzgjzf mgrugmrwg y.fmiw;gnifgRgzdgwqxigfmzfgfmixi
rwgvxizfixgzuorifn,g .dd.uyn,gf.gmzsigczwmr.uztyi,g.xgzfgyizwfg yizu
zubgqujzf mibg y.fmiw,gfmzugf.gmzsigzgw.qubg .uw riu iagTqfgisiugrcgfmi
xiufgrwgu.fgdiubib,gjixmzjwgfmigh.xwfgsr igtifxznibgrwgrdjx.srbiu iagR
w.difrdiwgfxngdngz lqzrufzu iwgtngwq mgfiwfwgzwgfmrw;—hm.g .qybghizxgz
jzf m,g.xgfh.giofxzgwizdwg.uyn,g.sixgfmigpuii?gD.wfgtimzsigzwgrcgfmin
tiyrisibgfmzfgfmirxgjx.wji fwgc.xgyrcigh.qybgtigxqruibgrcgfmingwm.qyb
b.grfagRfgh.qybgtigizwrixgc.xgfmidgf.gm.ttyigf.gf.hughrfmgzgtx.piugyiv
fmzughrfmgzgtx.piugjzufzy..uag.cfiugrcgzugz  rbiufgmzjjiuwgf.gz
viufyidzu’wgyivw,gfming zugtigdiubib;gtqfgrcgzgwrdryzxgz  rbiufgmzjjiuw
f.gfmigyivwg.cgmrwgjzufzy..uw,gfmixigrwgu.gmiyjgc.xgrf;gc.xgmi
 .uwrbixw,gu.fghmzfgrwgfxqyngxiwji fztyi,gtqfghmzfgrwgxiwji fibagHi
pu.hgtqfgcihgdiu,gzgvxizfgdzung .zfwgzubgtxii miwagBxiwwgzgw zxi x.hgru
n.qxgyzwfgwmrcf,gn.qgwfzubruvgwmrcfyiwwgtn,ghm.gh.qybgu.fgw..uiwf
wzyqfigfmigw zxi x.h?gJzwwruvgzg .xucriybgfmig.fmixgbzn,g y.wigtngzgmzf
zubg .zfg.ugzgwfzpi,gRgxi .vureibgfmig.huixg.cgfmigczxdagMighzwg.uyngz
yrffyigd.xighizfmix-tizfiugfmzughmiugRgwzhgmrdgyzwfagRgmzsigmizxbg.cgz
b.vgfmzfgtzxpibgzfgisixngwfxzuvixghm.gzjjx.z mibgmrwgdzwfix’wgjxidrwiw
hrfmg y.fmiwg.u,gtqfghzwgizwrynglqrifibgtngzguzpibgfmricagRfgrwgzu
rufixiwfruvglqiwfr.ugm.hgczxgdiugh.qybgxifzrugfmirxgxiyzfrsigxzupgrc
fminghixigbrsiwfibg.cgfmirxg y.fmiwag .qybgn.q,grugwq mgzg zwi,gfiyy
wqxiyng.cgzung .djzung.cg rsryreibgdiu,ghmr mgtiy.uvibgf.gfmigd.wf
xiwji fibg yzww?gHmiugDzbzdgJcirccix,grugmixgzbsiufqx.qwgfxzsiywgx.qub
fmigh.xyb,gcx.dgizwfgf.ghiwf,gmzbgv.fgw.guizxgm.digzwgZwrzfr gXqwwrz,
wmigwznwgfmzfgwmigciyfgfmigui iwwrfng.cghizxruvg.fmixgfmzugzgfxzsiyyruv
bxiww,ghmiugwmighiufgf.gdiifgfmigzqfm.xrfriw,gc.xgwmig“hzwgu.hgrugz
 rsryreibg .qufxn,ghmixig——g—gji.jyigzxigkqbvibg.cgtngfmirxg y.fmiwa”
Isiugrug.qxgbid. xzfr gUihgIuvyzubgf.huwgfmigz  rbiufzygj.wwiwwr.ug.c
hizyfm,gzubgrfwgdzurciwfzfr.ugrugbxiwwgzubgilqrjzvigzy.ui,g.tfzrugc.x
fmigj.wwiww.xgzyd.wfgqursixwzygxiwji fagTqfgfmingnriybgwq mgxiwji f,
uqdix.qwgzwgfmingzxi,gzxigw.gczxgmizfmiu,gzubguiibgf.gmzsigzgdrwwr.uzxn
wiufgf.gfmidagTiwrbi,g y.fmiwgrufx.bq ibgwihruv,gzgprubg.cgh.xpghmr m
n.qgdzng zyygiubyiww;gzgh.dzu’wgbxiww,gzfgyizwf,grwguisixgb.uia

Zgdzughm.gmzwgzfgyiuvfmgc.qubgw.difmruvgf.gb.ghryygu.fguiibgf.gvifgz
uihgwqrfgf.gb.grfgru;gc.xgmrdgfmig.ybghryygb.,gfmzfgmzwgyzrugbqwfngru
fmigvzxxifgc.xgzugrubifixdruzfigjixr.bag.ybgwm.iwghryygwixsigzgmix.
y.uvixgfmzugfmingmzsigwixsibgmrwgszyif,—rcgzgmix.gisixgmzwgz
szyif,—tzxigciifgzxig.ybixgfmzugwm.iw,gzubgmig zugdzpigfmidgb.ag.uyn
fminghm.gv.gf.gw.rxéiwgzubgyivrwyzfrsigmzyywgdqwfgmzsiguihg .zfw,g .zfw
f.g mzuvigzwg.cfiugzwgfmigdzug mzuviwgrugfmidagTqfgrcgdngkz pifgzub
fx.qwixw,gdngmzfgzubgwm.iw,gzxigcrfgf.gh.xwmrjgV.bgru,gfminghryygb.;
hryygfmingu.f?gHm.gisixgwzhgmrwg.ybg y.fmiw,—mrwg.ybg .zf,gz fqzyyn
h.xug.qf,gxiw.ysibgruf.grfwgjxrdrfrsigiyidiufw,gw.gfmzfgrfghzwgu.fgz
biibg.cg mzxrfngf.gtiwf.hgrfg.ugw.digj..xgt.n,gtngmrdgjix mzu igf.gti
tiwf.hibg.ugw.digj..xixgwfryy,g.xgwmzyyghigwzngxr mix,ghm.g .qybgb.
hrfmgyiww?gRgwzn,gtihzxig.cgzyygiufixjxrwiwgfmzfgxilqrxiguihg y.fmiw,
zubgu.fgxzfmixgzguihghizxixg.cg y.fmiwagRcgfmixigrwgu.fgzguihgdzu,gm.h
 zugfmiguihg y.fmiwgtigdzbigf.gcrf?gRcgn.qgmzsigzungiufixjxrwigtic.xi
n.q,gfxngrfgrugn.qxg.ybg y.fmiwagZyygdiughzuf,gu.fgw.difmruvgf.g_b.
hrfm_,gtqfgw.difmruvgf.g_b._,g.xgxzfmixgw.difmruvgf.g_ti_agJixmzjwghi
wm.qybguisixgjx. qxigzguihgwqrf,gm.hisixgxzvvibg.xgbrxfngfmig.yb,gqufry
higmzsigw.g .ubq fib,gw.giufixjxrwibg.xgwzryibgrugw.dighzn,gfmzfghi
ciiygyrpiguihgdiugrugfmig.yb,gzubgfmzfgf.gxifzrugrfgh.qybgtigyrpi
piijruvguihghruigrug.ybgt.ffyiwag.qxgd.qyfruvgwizw.u,gyrpigfmzfg.cgfmi
c.hyw,gdqwfgtigzg xrwrwgrug.qxgyrsiwagFmigy..ugxifrxiwgf.gw.yrfzxn
j.ubwgf.gwjiubgrfagFmqwgzyw.gfmigwuzpig zwfwgrfwgwy.qvm,gzubgfmi
 zfixjryyzxgrfwgh.xdng .zf,gtngzugrufixuzygrubqwfxngzubgiojzuwr.u;gc.x
 y.fmiwgzxigtqfg.qxg.qfd.wfg qfr yigzubgd.xfzyg .ryag.fmixhrwighigwmzyy
tigc.qubgwzryruvgqubixgczywig .y.xw,gzubgtigruisrfztyng zwmrixibgzf
yzwfgtng.qxg.hug.jrur.u,gzwghiyygzwgfmzfg.cgdzupruba

Higb.ugvzxdiufgzcfixgvzxdiuf,gzwgrcghigvxihgyrpigio.viu.qwgjyzufwgtn
zbbrfr.ughrfm.qfag.qxg.qfwrbigzubg.cfiugfmrugzubgczu rcqyg y.fmiwgzxi
.qxgijrbixdrw,g.xgczywigwpru,ghmr mgjzxfzpiwgu.fg.cg.qxgyrci,gzubgdzn
tigwfxrjjibg.ccgmixigzubgfmixighrfm.qfgczfzygrukqxn;g.qxgfmr pix
vzxdiufw,g .uwfzufyngh.xu,gzxig.qxg iyyqyzxgrufivqdiuf,g.xg .xfio;gtqf
.qxgwmrxfwgzxig.qxgyrtixg.xgfxqigtzxp,ghmr mg zuu.fgtigxid.sibghrfm.qf
vrxbyruvgzubgw.gbiwfx.nruvgfmigdzuagRgtiyrisigfmzfgzyygxz iwgzfgw.di
wizw.uwghizxgw.difmruvgilqrszyiufgf.gfmigwmrxfagRfgrwgbiwrxztyigfmzfgz
dzugtig yzbgw.gwrdjyngfmzfgmig zugyzngmrwgmzubwg.ugmrdwiycgrugfmigbzxp,
zubgfmzfgmigyrsigrugzyygxiwji fwgw.g .djz fyngzubgjxijzxibyn,gfmzf,grc
zugiuidngfzpigfmigf.hu,gmig zu,gyrpigfmig.ybgjmry.w.jmix,ghzypg.qfgfmi
vzfigidjfn-mzubibghrfm.qfgzuorifnagHmryig.uigfmr pgvzxdiufgrw,gc.xgd.wf
jqxj.wiw,gzwgv..bgzwgfmxiigfmrug.uiw,gzubg mizjg y.fmruvg zugti
.tfzruibgzfgjxr iwgxizyyngf.gwqrfg qwf.dixw;ghmryigzgfmr pg .zfg zugti
t.qvmfgc.xgcrsigb.yyzxw,ghmr mghryygyzwfgzwgdzungnizxw,gfmr p
jzufzy..uwgc.xgfh.gb.yyzxw,g .hmrbigt..fwgc.xgzgb.yyzxgzubgzgmzycgz
jzrx,gzgwqddixgmzfgc.xgzglqzxfixg.cgzgb.yyzx,gzubgzghrufixg zjgc.x
wrofn-fh.gzubgzgmzycg iufw,g.xgzgtiffixgtigdzbigzfgm.digzfgzgu.druzy
 .wf,ghmixigrwgmigw.gj..xgfmzf,g yzbgrugwq mgzgwqrf,g.cg_mrwg.hu
izxuruv_,gfmixighryygu.fgtigc.qubghrwigdiugf.gb.gmrdgxisixiu i?

HmiugRgzwpgc.xgzgvzxdiufg.cgzgjzxfr qyzxgc.xd,gdngfzry.xiwwgfiyywgdi
vxzsiyn,g“Fmingb.gu.fgdzpigfmidgw.gu.h,”gu.fgidjmzwreruvgfmig“Fmin”gzf
zyy,gzwgrcgwmiglq.fibgzugzqfm.xrfngzwgrdjixw.uzygzwgfmigCzfiw,gzubgR
crubgrfgbrccr qyfgf.gvifgdzbighmzfgRghzuf,gwrdjyngti zqwigwmig zuu.f
tiyrisigfmzfgRgdizughmzfgRgwzn,gfmzfgRgzdgw.gxzwmagHmiugRgmizxgfmrw
.xz qyzxgwiufiu i,gRgzdgc.xgzgd.diufgztw.xtibgrugfm.qvmf,gidjmzwreruv
f.gdnwiycgiz mgh.xbgwijzxzfiyngfmzfgRgdzng .digzfgfmigdizuruvg.cgrf,
fmzfgRgdzngcrubg.qfgtnghmzfgbivxiig.cg .uwzuvqrurfng_Fmin_gzxigxiyzfib
f.g_di_,gzubghmzfgzqfm.xrfngfmingdzngmzsigrugzugzcczrxghmr mgzcci fwgdi
w.guizxyn;gzub,gcruzyyn,gRgzdgru yruibgf.gzuwhixgmixghrfmgilqzy
dnwfixn,gzubghrfm.qfgzungd.xigidjmzwrwg.cgfmig“fmin,”—“Rfgrwgfxqi,gfmin
brbgu.fgdzpigfmidgw.gxi iufyn,gtqfgfmingb.gu.ha”g.cghmzfgqwigfmrw
dizwqxruvg.cgdigrcgwmigb.iwgu.fgdizwqxigdng mzxz fix,gtqfg.uyngfmi
txizbfmg.cgdngwm.qybixw,gzwgrfghixigzgjivgf.gmzuvgfmig .zfg.u?gHi
h.xwmrjgu.fgfmigVxz iw,gu.xgfmigJzx æ,gtqfgCzwmr.uagWmigwjruwgzub
hizsiwgzubg qfwghrfmgcqyygzqfm.xrfnagFmigmizbgd.upingzfgJzxrwgjqfwg.ugz
fxzsiyyix’wg zj,gzubgzyygfmigd.upinwgrugZdixr zgb.gfmigwzdiagR
w.difrdiwgbiwjzrxg.cgviffruvgzunfmruvglqrfigwrdjyigzubgm.uiwfgb.uigru
fmrwgh.xybgtngfmigmiyjg.cgdiuagFmingh.qybgmzsigf.gtigjzwwibgfmx.qvmgz
j.hixcqygjxiwwgcrxwf,gf.gwlqiieigfmirxg.ybgu.fr.uwg.qfg.cgfmid,gw.gfmzf
fmingh.qybgu.fgw..ugvifgqj.ugfmirxgyivwgzvzru,gzubgfmiugfmixigh.qybgti
w.dig.uigrugfmig .djzunghrfmgzgdzvv.fgrugmrwgmizb,gmzf mibgcx.dgzugivv
bij.wrfibgfmixigu.t.bngpu.hwghmiu,gc.xgu.fgisiugcrxigpryywgfmiwi
fmruvw,gzubgn.qgh.qybgmzsigy.wfgn.qxgyzt.xagUisixfmiyiww,ghighryygu.f
c.xvifgfmzfgw.digIvnjfrzughmizfghzwgmzubibgb.hugf.gqwgtngzgdqddna

.ugfmighm.yi,gRgfmrupgfmzfgrfg zuu.fgtigdzrufzruibgfmzfgbxiwwruvgmzwgru
fmrwg.xgzung .qufxngxrwiugf.gfmigbrvurfng.cgzugzxfagZfgjxiwiufgdiugdzpi
wmrcfgf.ghizxghmzfgfming zugvifagYrpigwmrjhxi pibgwzry.xw,gfmingjqfg.u
hmzfgfming zugcrubg.ugfmigtiz m,gzubgzfgzgyrffyigbrwfzu i,ghmifmixg.c
wjz ig.xgfrdi,gyzqvmgzfgiz mg.fmix’wgdzwlqixzbiagIsixngviuixzfr.u
yzqvmwgzfgfmig.ybgczwmr.uw,gtqfgc.yy.hwgxiyrvr.qwyngfmiguihagHigzxi
zdqwibgzfgtim.ybruvgfmig .wfqdig.cgMiuxngSRRRa,g.xgLqiiugIyreztifm,gzw
dq mgzwgrcgrfghzwgfmzfg.cgfmigPruvgzubgLqiiug.cgfmig zuurtzygRwyzubwa
Zyyg .wfqdig.ccgzgdzugrwgjrfrcqyg.xgvx.fiwlqiagRfgrwg.uyngfmigwixr.qw
inigjiixruvgcx.dgzubgfmigwru ixigyrcigjzwwibghrfmrugrf,ghmr mgxiwfxzru
yzqvmfixgzubg .uwi xzfigfmig .wfqdig.cgzungji.jyiagYifgMzxyilqrugti
fzpiughrfmgzgcrfg.cgfmig .yr gzubgmrwgfxzjjruvwghryygmzsigf.gwixsigfmzf
d..bgf..agHmiugfmigw.ybrixgrwgmrfgtngzg zuu.ugtzyygxzvwgzxigzwgti .druv
zwgjqxjyia

Fmig mrybrwmgzubgwzszvigfzwfig.cgdiugzubgh.diugc.xguihgjzffixuwgpiijw
m.hgdzungwmzpruvgzubgwlqrufruvgfmx.qvmgpzyirb.w .jiwgfmzfgfmingdzn
brw .sixgfmigjzxfr qyzxgcrvqxighmr mgfmrwgviuixzfr.ugxilqrxiwgf.bzna
Fmigdzuqcz fqxixwgmzsigyizxuibgfmzfgfmrwgfzwfigrwgdixiynghmrdwr zyag.c
fh.gjzffixuwghmr mgbrccixg.uyngtngzgcihgfmxizbwgd.xig.xgyiwwg.cgz
jzxfr qyzxg .y.x,gfmig.uighryygtigw.ybgxizbryn,gfmig.fmixgyrig.ugfmi
wmiyc,gfm.qvmgrfgcxilqiufyngmzjjiuwgfmzfgzcfixgfmigyzjwig.cgzgwizw.u
fmigyzffixgti .diwgfmigd.wfgczwmr.uztyiag .djzxzfrsiyn,gfzff..ruvgrw
u.fgfmigmrbi.qwg qwf.dghmr mgrfgrwg zyyibagRfgrwgu.fgtzxtzx.qwgdixiyn
ti zqwigfmigjxrufruvgrwgwpru-biijgzubgquzyfixztyia

Rg zuu.fgtiyrisigfmzfg.qxgcz f.xngwnwfidgrwgfmigtiwfgd.bigtnghmr mgdiu
dzngvifg y.fmruvagFmig .ubrfr.ug.cgfmig.jixzfrsiwgrwgti .druvgisixngbzn
d.xigyrpigfmzfg.cgfmigIuvyrwm;gzubgrfg zuu.fgtigh.ubixibgzf,gwru i,gzw
czxgzwgRgmzsigmizxbg.xg.twixsib,gfmigjxru rjzyg.tki fgrw,gu.fgfmzf
dzuprubgdzngtighiyygzubgm.uiwfyng yzb,gtqf,gqulqiwfr.uztyn,gfmzf
 .xj.xzfr.uwgdzngtigiuxr mibagRugfmigy.uvgxqugdiugmrfg.uynghmzfgfmin
zrdgzfagFmixic.xi,gfm.qvmgfmingwm.qybgczrygrddibrzfiyn,gfmingmzbgtiffix
zrdgzfgw.difmruvgmrvma



Zwgc.xgzgWmiyfix,gRghryygu.fgbiungfmzfgfmrwgrwgu.hgzgui iwwzxng.cgyrci,
fm.qvmgfmixigzxigruwfzu iwg.cgdiugmzsruvgb.uighrfm.qfgrfgc.xgy.uv
jixr.bwgrug .ybixg .qufxriwgfmzugfmrwagWzdqiygYzruvgwznwgfmzfg“fmi
Yzjyzubixgrugmrwgwprugbxiww,gzubgrugzgwprugtzvghmr mgmigjqfwg.sixgmrw
mizbgzubgwm.qybixw,ghryygwyiijgurvmfgzcfixgurvmfg.ugfmigwu.h—rugz
bivxiig.cg .ybghmr mgh.qybgiofruvqrwmgfmigyrcig.cg.uigioj.wibgf.grfgru
zungh..yyiug y.fmruva”gMigmzbgwiiugfmidgzwyiijgfmqwagNifgmigzbbw,g“Fmin
zxigu.fgmzxbrixgfmzug.fmixgji.jyia”gTqf,gjx.tztyn,gdzugbrbgu.fgyrsi
y.uvg.ugfmigizxfmghrfm.qfgbrw .sixruvgfmig .usiuriu ighmr mgfmixigrwgru
zgm.qwi,gfmigb.diwfr g .dc.xfw,ghmr mgjmxzwigdzngmzsig.xrvruzyyn
wrvurcribgfmigwzfrwcz fr.uwg.cgfmigm.qwigd.xigfmzug.cgfmigczdryn;
fm.qvmgfmiwigdqwfgtigiofxidiyngjzxfrzygzubg.  zwr.uzygrugfm.wig yrdzfiw
hmixigfmigm.qwigrwgzww. rzfibgrug.qxgfm.qvmfwghrfmghrufixg.xgfmigxzrun
wizw.ug mricyn,gzubgfh.gfmrxbwg.cgfmignizx,gio ijfgc.xgzgjzxzw.y,grw
quui iwwzxnagRug.qxg yrdzfi,grugfmigwqddix,grfghzwgc.xdixyngzyd.wf
w.yiyngzg .sixruvgzfgurvmfagRugfmigRubrzugvzeiffiwgzghrvhzdghzwgfmi
wndt.yg.cgzgbzn’wgdzx m,gzubgzgx.hg.cgfmidg qfg.xgjzrufibg.ugfmigtzxp
.cgzgfxiigwrvurcribgfmzfgw.gdzungfrdiwgfmingmzbg zdjibagDzughzwgu.f
dzbigw.gyzxvigyrdtibgzubgx.tqwfgtqfgfmzfgmigdqwfgwiipgf.guzxx.hgmrw
h.xyb,gzubghzyygrugzgwjz igwq mgzwgcrffibgmrdagMighzwgzfgcrxwfgtzxigzub
.qfg.cgb..xw;gtqfgfm.qvmgfmrwghzwgjyizwzufgiu.qvmgrugwixiuigzubghzxd
hizfmix,gtngbznyrvmf,gfmigxzrungwizw.ugzubgfmighrufix,gf.gwzngu.fmruv
.cgfmigf.xxrbgwqu,gh.qybgjixmzjwgmzsigurjjibgmrwgxz igrugfmigtqbgrcgmi
mzbgu.fgdzbigmzwfigf.g y.fmigmrdwiycghrfmgfmigwmiyfixg.cgzgm.qwiagZbzd
zubgIsi,gz  .xbruvgf.gfmigcztyi,gh.xigfmigt.hixgtic.xig.fmixg y.fmiwa
Dzughzufibgzgm.di,gzgjyz ig.cghzxdfm,g.xg .dc.xf,gcrxwfg.cgjmnwr zy
hzxdfm,gfmiugfmighzxdfmg.cgfmigzcci fr.uwa

Higdzngrdzvruigzgfrdighmiu,grugfmigruczu ng.cgfmigmqdzugxz i,gw.di
iufixjxrwruvgd.xfzyg xijfgruf.gzgm.yy.hgrugzgx. pgc.xgwmiyfixagIsixn
 mrybgtivruwgfmigh.xybgzvzru,gf.gw.digiofiuf,gzubgy.siwgf.gwfzng.qf
b..xw,gisiugrughifgzubg .ybagRfgjyznwgm.qwi,gzwghiyygzwgm.xwi,gmzsruv
zugruwfru fgc.xgrfagHm.gb.iwgu.fgxididtixgfmigrufixiwfghrfmghmr mghmiu
n.quvgmigy..pibgzfgwmiysruvgx. pw,g.xgzungzjjx.z mgf.gzg zsi?gRfghzw
fmiguzfqxzygnizxuruvg.cgfmzfgj.xfr.ug.cg.qxgd.wfgjxrdrfrsigzu iwf.x
hmr mgwfryygwqxsrsibgrugqwagCx.dgfmig zsighigmzsigzbszu ibgf.gx..cwg.c
jzydgyizsiw,g.cgtzxpgzubgt.qvmw,g.cgyruiugh.siugzubgwfxif mib,g.cgvxzww
zubgwfxzh,g.cgt.zxbwgzubgwmruvyiw,g.cgwf.uiwgzubgfryiwagZfgyzwf,ghi
pu.hgu.fghmzfgrfgrwgf.gyrsigrugfmig.jiugzrx,gzubg.qxgyrsiwgzxigb.diwfr 
rugd.xigwiuwiwgfmzughigfmrupagCx.dgfmigmizxfmgf.gfmigcriybgrwgzgvxizf
brwfzu iagRfgh.qybgtighiyygjixmzjwgrcghighixigf.gwjiubgd.xig.cg.qxgbznw
zubgurvmfwghrfm.qfgzung.twfxq fr.ugtifhiiugqwgzubgfmig iyiwfrzygt.briw,
rcgfmigj.ifgbrbgu.fgwjizpgw.gdq mgcx.dgqubixgzgx..c,g.xgfmigwzrufgbhiyy
fmixigw.gy.uvagTrxbwgb.gu.fgwruvgrug zsiw,gu.xgb.gb.siwg mixrwmgfmirx
ruu. iu igrugb.si .fwa

M.hisix,grcg.uigbiwrvuwgf.g .uwfxq fgzgbhiyyruvgm.qwi,grfgtim..siwgmrd
f.gioix rwigzgyrffyigNzupiigwmxihbuiww,gyiwfgzcfixgzyygmigcrubgmrdwiyc
rugzgh.xpm.qwi,gzgyztnxrufmghrfm.qfgzg yqi,gzgdqwiqd,gzugzydwm.qwi,gz
jxrw.u,g.xgzgwjyiubrbgdzqw.yiqdgruwfizbag .uwrbixgcrxwfgm.hgwyrvmfgz
wmiyfixgrwgztw.yqfiyngui iwwzxnagRgmzsigwiiugJiu.tw .fgRubrzuw,grugfmrw
f.hu,gyrsruvgrugfiufwg.cgfmrug .ff.ug y.fm,ghmryigfmigwu.hghzwguizxyngz
c..fgbiijgzx.qubgfmid,gzubgRgfm.qvmfgfmzfgfmingh.qybgtigvyzbgf.gmzsigrf
biijixgf.gpiijg.qfgfmighrubagC.xdixyn,ghmiugm.hgf.gvifgdngyrsruv
m.uiwfyn,ghrfmgcxiib.dgyicfgc.xgdngjx.jixgjqxwqrfw,ghzwgzglqiwfr.u
hmr mgsioibgdigisiugd.xigfmzugrfgb.iwgu.h,gc.xgquc.xfquzfiyngRgzd
ti .digw.dihmzfg zyy.qw,gRgqwibgf.gwiigzgyzxvigt.ogtngfmigxzryx.zb,gwro
ciifgy.uvgtngfmxiighrbi,grughmr mgfmigyzt.xixwgy. pibgqjgfmirxgf..ywgzf
urvmf,gzubgrfgwqvviwfibgf.gdigfmzfgisixngdzughm.ghzwgmzxbgjqwmibgdrvmf
vifgwq mgzg.uigc.xgzgb.yyzx,gzub,gmzsruvgt.xibgzgcihgzqvixgm.yiwgrugrf,
f.gzbdrfgfmigzrxgzfgyizwf,gvifgruf.grfghmiugrfgxzruibgzubgzfgurvmf,gzub
m..pgb.hugfmigyrb,gzubgw.gmzsigcxiib.dgrugmrwgy.si,gzubgrugmrwgw.qygti
cxiiagFmrwgbrbgu.fgzjjizxgfmigh.xwf,gu.xgtngzungdizuwgzgbiwjr ztyi
zyfixuzfrsiagN.qg .qybgwrfgqjgzwgyzfigzwgn.qgjyizwib,gzub,ghmiuisixgn.q
v.fgqj,gv.gztx.zbghrfm.qfgzungyzuby.xbg.xgm.qwi-y.xbgb.vvruvgn.qgc.x
xiufagDzungzgdzugrwgmzxzwwibgf.gbizfmgf.gjzngfmigxiufg.cgzgyzxvixgzub
d.xigyqoqxr.qwgt.oghm.gh.qybgu.fgmzsigcx.eiugf.gbizfmgrugwq mgzgt.ogzw
fmrwagRgzdgczxgcx.dgkiwfruvagI .u.dngrwgzgwqtki fghmr mgzbdrfwg.cgtiruv
fxizfibghrfmgyisrfn,gtqfgrfg zuu.fgw.gtigbrwj.wibg.cagZg .dc.xfztyi
m.qwigc.xgzgxqbigzubgmzxbngxz i,gfmzfgyrsibgd.wfyng.qfg.cgb..xw,ghzw
.u igdzbigmixigzyd.wfgiufrxiyng.cgwq mgdzfixrzywgzwgUzfqxigcqxurwmib
xizbngf.gfmirxgmzubwagV..pru,ghm.ghzwgwqjixrufiubiufg.cgfmigRubrzuw
wqtki fgf.gfmigDzwwz mqwiffwg .y.un,ghxrfruvgrug1674,gwznw,g“Fmigtiwf
.cgfmirxgm.qwiwgzxig .sixibgsixnguizfyn,gfrvmfgzubghzxd,ghrfmgtzxpwg.c
fxiiw,gwyrjjibgcx.dgfmirxgt.briwgzfgfm.wigwizw.uwghmiugfmigwzjgrwgqj,
zubgdzbigruf.gvxizfgcyzpiw,ghrfmgjxiwwqxig.cghirvmfngfrdtix,ghmiugfmin
zxigvxiiuaaaagFmigdizuixgw.xfgzxig .sixibghrfmgdzfwghmr mgfmingdzpig.c
zgprubg.cgtqyxqwm,gzubgzxigzyw.grubrccixiufyngfrvmfgzubghzxd,gtqfgu.f
w.gv..bgzwgfmigc.xdixaaaagW.digRgmzsigwiiu,gwrofng.xgzgmqubxibgciif
y.uvgzubgfmrxfngciifgtx.zbaaaagRgmzsig.cfiugy.bvibgrugfmirxghrvhzdw,
zubgc.qubgfmidgzwghzxdgzwgfmigtiwfgIuvyrwmgm.qwiwa”gMigzbbw,gfmzfgfmin
hixig .dd.uyng zxjifibgzubgyruibghrfmrughrfmghiyy-hx.qvmfgidtx.rbixib
dzfw,gzubghixigcqxurwmibghrfmgszxr.qwgqfiuwrywagFmigRubrzuwgmzb
zbszu ibgw.gczxgzwgf.gxivqyzfigfmigicci fg.cgfmighrubgtngzgdzf
wqwjiubibg.sixgfmigm.yigrugfmigx..cgzubgd.sibgtngzgwfxruvagWq mgzgy.bvi
hzwgrugfmigcrxwfgruwfzu ig .uwfxq fibgrugzgbzng.xgfh.gzfgd.wf,gzub
fzpiugb.hugzubgjqfgqjgrugzgcihgm.qxw;gzubgisixngczdryng.huibg.ui,g.x
rfwgzjzxfdiufgrug.uia

Rugfmigwzszvigwfzfigisixngczdryng.huwgzgwmiyfixgzwgv..bgzwgfmigtiwf,
zubgwqccr riufgc.xgrfwg .zxwixgzubgwrdjyixghzufw;gtqfgRgfmrupgfmzfgR
wjizpghrfmrugt.qubwghmiugRgwzngfmzf,gfm.qvmgfmigtrxbwg.cgfmigzrxgmzsi
fmirxguiwfw,gzubgfmigc.oiwgfmirxgm.yiw,gzubgfmigwzszviwgfmirxghrvhzdw,
rugd.bixug rsryreibgw. rifngu.fgd.xigfmzug.uigmzycgfmigczdryriwg.hugz
wmiyfixagRugfmigyzxvigf.huwgzubg rfriw,ghmixig rsryrezfr.ugiwji rzyyn
jxiszryw,gfmiguqdtixg.cgfm.wighm.g.hugzgwmiyfixgrwgzgsixngwdzyy
cxz fr.ug.cgfmighm.yiagFmigxiwfgjzngzugzuuqzygfzogc.xgfmrwg.qfwrbi
vzxdiufg.cgzyy,gti .digrubrwjiuwztyigwqddixgzubghrufix,ghmr mgh.qybgtqn
zgsryyzvig.cgRubrzughrvhzdw,gtqfgu.hgmiyjwgf.gpiijgfmidgj..xgzwgy.uvgzw
fmingyrsiagRgb.gu.fgdizugf.gruwrwfgmixig.ugfmigbrwzbszufzvig.cgmrxruv
 .djzxibghrfmg.huruv,gtqfgrfgrwgisrbiufgfmzfgfmigwzszvig.huwgmrw
wmiyfixgti zqwigrfg .wfwgw.gyrffyi,ghmryigfmig rsryreibgdzugmrxiwgmrw
 .dd.uyngti zqwigmig zuu.fgzcc.xbgf.g.hugrf;gu.xg zugmi,grugfmigy.uv
xqu,gzungtiffixgzcc.xbgf.gmrxiagTqf,gzuwhixwg.ui,gtngdixiyngjznruvgfmrw
fzogfmigj..xg rsryreibgdzugwi qxiwgzugzt.bighmr mgrwgzgjzyz ig .djzxib
hrfmgfmigwzszvi’wagZugzuuqzygxiufg.cgcx.dgfhiufn-crsigf.gzgmqubxib
b.yyzxw,gfmiwigzxigfmig .qufxngxzfiw,giufrfyiwgmrdgf.gfmigtiuicrfg.c
fmigrdjx.sidiufwg.cg iufqxriw,gwjz r.qwgzjzxfdiufw,g yizugjzrufgzub
jzjix,gXqdc.xbgcrxijyz i,gtz pgjyzwfixruv,gSiuifrzugtyrubw,g .jjix
jqdj,gwjxruvgy. p,gzg .dd.br.qwg iyyzx,gzubgdzung.fmixgfmruvwagTqfgm.h
mzjjiuwgrfgfmzfgmighm.grwgwzrbgf.giuk.ngfmiwigfmruvwgrwgw.g .dd.uyngz
_j..x_g rsryreibgdzu,ghmryigfmigwzszvi,ghm.gmzwgfmidgu.f,grwgxr mgzwgz
wzszvi?gRcgrfgrwgzwwixfibgfmzfg rsryrezfr.ugrwgzgxizygzbszu igrugfmi
 .ubrfr.ug.cgdzu,—zubgRgfmrupgfmzfgrfgrw,gfm.qvmg.uyngfmighrwigrdjx.si
fmirxgzbszufzviw,—rfgdqwfgtigwm.hugfmzfgrfgmzwgjx.bq ibgtiffix
bhiyyruvwghrfm.qfgdzpruvgfmidgd.xig .wfyn;gzubgfmig .wfg.cgzgfmruvgrw
fmigzd.qufg.cghmzfgRghryyg zyygyrcighmr mgrwgxilqrxibgf.gtigio mzuvib
c.xgrf,grddibrzfiyng.xgrugfmigy.uvgxquagZugzsixzvigm.qwigrugfmrw
uirvmt.xm..bg .wfwgjixmzjwgirvmfgmqubxibgb.yyzxw,gzubgf.gyzngqjgfmrw
wqdghryygfzpigcx.dgfiugf.gcrcfiiugnizxwg.cgfmigyzt.xix’wgyrci,gisiugrc
migrwgu.fgiu qdtixibghrfmgzgczdryn;—iwfrdzfruvgfmigji qurzxngszyqig.c
isixngdzu’wgyzt.xgzfg.uigb.yyzxgzgbzn,gc.xgrcgw.digxi irsigd.xi,g.fmixw
xi irsigyiww;—w.gfmzfgmigdqwfgmzsigwjiufgd.xigfmzugmzycgmrwgyrci
 .dd.uyngtic.xig_mrw_ghrvhzdghryygtigizxuibagRcghigwqjj.wigmrdgf.gjzngz
xiufgruwfizb,gfmrwgrwgtqfgzgb.qtfcqyg m.r ig.cgisrywagH.qybgfmigwzszvi
mzsigtiiughrwigf.gio mzuvigmrwghrvhzdgc.xgzgjzyz ig.ugfmiwigfixdw?

RfgdzngtigvqiwwibgfmzfgRgxibq igzyd.wfgfmighm.yigzbszufzvig.cgm.ybruv
fmrwgwqjixcyq.qwgjx.jixfngzwgzgcqubgrugwf.xigzvzruwfgfmigcqfqxi,gw.gczx
zwgfmigrubrsrbqzygrwg .u ixuib,gdzruyngf.gfmigbicxznruvg.cgcquixzy
iojiuwiwagTqfgjixmzjwgzgdzugrwgu.fgxilqrxibgf.gtqxngmrdwiyca
Uisixfmiyiwwgfmrwgj.rufwgf.gzugrdj.xfzufgbrwfru fr.ugtifhiiugfmi
 rsryreibgdzugzubgfmigwzszvi;gzub,gu.gb.qtf,gfmingmzsigbiwrvuwg.ugqw
c.xg.qxgtiuicrf,grugdzpruvgfmigyrcig.cgzg rsryreibgji.jyigzu
_ruwfrfqfr.u_,grughmr mgfmigyrcig.cgfmigrubrsrbqzygrwgf.gzgvxizfgiofiuf
ztw.xtib,grug.xbixgf.gjxiwixsigzubgjixci fgfmzfg.cgfmigxz iagTqfgRghrwm
f.gwm.hgzfghmzfgzgwz xrcr igfmrwgzbszufzvigrwgzfgjxiwiufg.tfzruib,gzub
f.gwqvviwfgfmzfghigdzngj.wwrtyngw.gyrsigzwgf.gwi qxigzyygfmigzbszufzvi
hrfm.qfgwqccixruvgzung.cgfmigbrwzbszufzviagHmzfgdizugnigtngwznruvgfmzf
fmigj..xgnigmzsigzyhznwghrfmgn.q,g.xgfmzfgfmigczfmixwgmzsigizfiugw.qx
vxzjiw,gzubgfmig mrybxiu’wgfiifmgzxigwifg.ugibvi?

“ZwgRgyrsi,gwzrfmgfmigY.xbgV.b,gnigwmzyygu.fgmzsig.  zwr.ugzungd.xigf.
qwigfmrwgjx.sixtgrugRwxziya”

“Tim.ybgzyygw.qywgzxigdrui;gzwgfmigw.qyg.cgfmigczfmix,gw.gzyw.gfmigw.qy
.cgfmigw.ugrwgdrui:gfmigw.qygfmzfgwruuifm,grfgwmzyygbria”

HmiugRg .uwrbixgdnguirvmt.xw,gfmigczxdixwg.cg .u .xb,ghm.gzxigzfgyizwf
zwghiyyg.ccgzwgfmig.fmixg yzwwiw,gRgcrubgfmzfgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgfmin
mzsigtiiugf.ryruvgfhiufn,gfmrxfn,g.xgc.xfngnizxw,gfmzfgfmingdzngti .di
fmigxizyg.huixwg.cgfmirxgczxdw,ghmr mg .dd.uyngfmingmzsigrumixrfibghrfm
iu qdtxzu iw,g.xgiywigt.qvmfghrfmgmrxibgd.uin,—zubghigdzngxivzxbg.ui
fmrxbg.cgfmzfgf.rygzwgfmig .wfg.cgfmirxgm.qwiw,—tqfg .dd.uyngfmingmzsi
u.fgjzrbgc.xgfmidgnifagRfgrwgfxqi,gfmigiu qdtxzu iwgw.difrdiwg.qfhirvm
fmigszyqig.cgfmigczxd,gw.gfmzfgfmigczxdgrfwiycgti .diwg.uigvxizf
iu qdtxzu i,gzubgwfryygzgdzugrwgc.qubgf.grumixrfgrf,gtiruvghiyy
z lqzrufibghrfmgrf,gzwgmigwznwag.ugzjjynruvgf.gfmigzwwiww.xw,gRgzd
wqxjxrwibgf.gyizxugfmzfgfming zuu.fgzfg.u iguzdigzgb.eiugrugfmigf.hu
hm.g.hugfmirxgczxdwgcxiigzubg yizxagRcgn.qgh.qybgpu.hgfmigmrwf.xng.c
fmiwigm.diwfizbw,grulqrxigzfgfmigtzupghmixigfmingzxigd.xfvzvibagFmigdzu
hm.gmzwgz fqzyyngjzrbgc.xgmrwgczxdghrfmgyzt.xg.ugrfgrwgw.gxzxigfmzf
isixnguirvmt.xg zugj.rufgf.gmrdagRgb.qtfgrcgfmixigzxigfmxiigwq mgdiugru
 .u .xbagHmzfgmzwgtiiugwzrbg.cgfmigdix mzufw,gfmzfgzgsixngyzxvi
dzk.xrfn,gisiuguruifn-wisiugrugzgmqubxib,gzxigwqxigf.gczry,grwgilqzyyn
fxqig.cgfmigczxdixwagHrfmgxivzxbgf.gfmigdix mzufw,gm.hisix,g.uig.cgfmid
wznwgjixfruiufyngfmzfgzgvxizfgjzxfg.cgfmirxgczryqxiwgzxigu.fgviuqrui
ji qurzxngczryqxiw,gtqfgdixiyngczryqxiwgf.gcqycrygfmirxgiuvzvidiufw,
ti zqwigrfgrwgru .usiuriuf;gfmzfgrw,grfgrwgfmigd.xzyg mzxz fixgfmzf
txizpwgb.huagTqfgfmrwgjqfwgzugrucrurfiyngh.xwigcz ig.ugfmigdzffix,gzub
wqvviwfw,gtiwrbi,gfmzfgjx.tztyngu.fgisiugfmig.fmixgfmxiigwq  iibgru
wzsruvgfmirxgw.qyw,gtqfgzxigjix mzu igtzupxqjfgrugzgh.xwigwiuwigfmzu
fminghm.gczrygm.uiwfynagTzupxqjf ngzubgxijqbrzfr.ugzxigfmigwjxruvt.zxbw
cx.dghmr mgdq mg.cg.qxg rsryrezfr.ugszqyfwgzubgfqxuwgrfwgw.dixwifw,gtqf
fmigwzszvigwfzubwg.ugfmigquiyzwfr gjyzupg.cgczdruiagNifgfmigDrbbyiwio
 zffyigWm.hgv.iwg.ccgmixighrfmg_é yzf_gzuuqzyyn,gzwgrcgzyygfmigk.rufw
.cgfmigzvxr qyfqxzygdz mruighixigwqiufa

Fmigczxdixgrwgiubizs.xruvgf.gw.ysigfmigjx.tyidg.cgzgyrsiyrm..bgtngz
c.xdqyzgd.xig .djyr zfibgfmzugfmigjx.tyidgrfwiycagF.gvifgmrw
wm.iwfxruvwgmigwji qyzfiwgrugmixbwg.cg zffyiagHrfmg .uwqddzfigwpryygmi
mzwgwifgmrwgfxzjghrfmgzgmzrxgwjxruvgf.g zf mg .dc.xfgzubgrubijiubiu i,
zubgfmiu,gzwgmigfqxuibgzhzn,gv.fgmrwg.hugyivgruf.grfagFmrwgrwgfmi
xizw.ugmigrwgj..x;gzubgc.xgzgwrdryzxgxizw.ughigzxigzyygj..xgrugxiwji f
f.gzgfm.qwzubgwzszvig .dc.xfw,gfm.qvmgwqxx.qubibgtngyqoqxriwagZw
 mzjdzugwruvw,—

ggggg“Fmigczywigw. rifng.cgdiu—
ggggggggggggg—c.xgizxfmyngvxizfuiww
gggggZyygmizsiuyng .dc.xfwgxzxicriwgf.gzrxa”

Zubghmiugfmigczxdixgmzwgv.fgmrwgm.qwi,gmigdzngu.fgtigfmigxr mixgtqfgfmi
j..xixgc.xgrf,gzubgrfgtigfmigm.qwigfmzfgmzwgv.fgmrdagZwgRgqubixwfzub
rf,gfmzfghzwgzgszyrbg.tki fr.ugqxvibgtngD.dqwgzvzruwfgfmigm.qwighmr m
Druixszgdzbi,gfmzfgwmig“mzbgu.fgdzbigrfgd.sztyi,gtnghmr mgdizuwgzgtzb
uirvmt.xm..bgdrvmfgtigzs.rbib;”gzubgrfgdzngwfryygtigqxvib,gc.xg.qx
m.qwiwgzxigwq mgquhriybngjx.jixfngfmzfghigzxig.cfiugrdjxrw.uibgxzfmix
fmzugm.qwibgrugfmid;gzubgfmigtzbguirvmt.xm..bgf.gtigzs.rbibgrwg.qxg.hu
w qxsngwiysiwagRgpu.hg.uig.xgfh.gczdryriw,gzfgyizwf,grugfmrwgf.hu,ghm.,
c.xguizxyngzgviuixzfr.u,gmzsigtiiughrwmruvgf.gwiyygfmirxgm.qwiwgrugfmi
.qfwprxfwgzubgd.sigruf.gfmigsryyzvi,gtqfgmzsigu.fgtiiugztyigf.
z  .djyrwmgrf,gzubg.uyngbizfmghryygwifgfmidgcxiia

Vxzufibgfmzfgfmig_dzk.xrfn_gzxigztyigzfgyzwfgirfmixgf.g.hug.xgmrxigfmi
d.bixugm.qwighrfmgzyygrfwgrdjx.sidiufwagHmryig rsryrezfr.ugmzwgtiiu
rdjx.sruvg.qxgm.qwiw,grfgmzwgu.fgilqzyyngrdjx.sibgfmigdiughm.gzxigf.
rumztrfgfmidagRfgmzwg xizfibgjzyz iw,gtqfgrfghzwgu.fgw.gizwngf.g xizfi
u.tyidiugzubgpruvwagZubg_rcgfmig rsryreibgdzu’wgjqxwqrfwgzxigu.
h.xfmrixgfmzugfmigwzszvi’w,grcgmigrwgidjy.nibgfmigvxizfixgjzxfg.cgmrw
yrcigrug.tfzruruvgvx.wwgui iwwzxriwgzubg .dc.xfwgdixiyn,ghmngwm.qybgmi
mzsigzgtiffixgbhiyyruvgfmzugfmigc.xdix?_

Tqfgm.hgb.gfmigj..xgdru.xrfngczxi?gJixmzjwgrfghryygtigc.qub,gfmzfgkqwf
rugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgw.digmzsigtiiugjyz ibgrug.qfhzxbg rx qdwfzu iwgzt.si
fmigwzszvi,g.fmixwgmzsigtiiugbivxzbibgtiy.hgmrdagFmigyqoqxng.cg.ui
 yzwwgrwg .qufixtzyzu ibgtngfmigrubrviu ig.cgzu.fmixag.ugfmig.uigwrbi
rwgfmigjzyz i,g.ugfmig.fmixgzxigfmigzydwm.qwigzubg“wryiufgj..xa”gFmi
dnxrzbwghm.gtqryfgfmigjnxzdrbwgf.gtigfmigf.dtwg.cgfmigJmzxz.mwghixigcib
.ugvzxyr ,gzubgrfgdzngtighixigu.fgbi iufyngtqxribgfmidwiysiwagFmigdzw.u
hm.gcrurwmiwgfmig .xur ig.cgfmigjzyz igxifqxuwgzfgurvmfgjix mzu igf.gz
mqfgu.fgw.gv..bgzwgzghrvhzdagRfgrwgzgdrwfzpigf.gwqjj.wigfmzf,grugz
 .qufxnghmixigfmigqwqzygisrbiu iwg.cg rsryrezfr.ugiorwf,gfmig .ubrfr.u
.cgzgsixngyzxvigt.bng.cgfmigrumztrfzufwgdzngu.fgtigzwgbivxzbibgzwgfmzf
.cgwzszviwagRgxicixgf.gfmigbivxzbibgj..x,gu.fgu.hgf.gfmigbivxzbibgxr ma
F.gpu.hgfmrwgRgwm.qybgu.fguiibgf.gy..pgczxfmixgfmzugf.gfmigwmzufriw
hmr mgisixnghmixigt.xbixg.qxgxzryx.zbw,gfmzfgyzwfgrdjx.sidiufgru
 rsryrezfr.u;ghmixigRgwiigrugdngbzrynghzypwgmqdzugtiruvwgyrsruvgru
wfriw,gzubgzyyghrufixghrfmgzug.jiugb..x,gc.xgfmigwzpig.cgyrvmf,ghrfm.qf
zungsrwrtyi,g.cfiugrdzvruztyi,gh..bgjryi,gzubgfmigc.xdwg.cgt.fmg.ybgzub
n.quvgzxigjixdzuiufyng .ufxz fibgtngfmigy.uvgmztrfg.cgwmxrupruvgcx.d
 .ybgzubgdrwixn,gzubgfmigbisiy.jdiufg.cgzyygfmirxgyrdtwgzubgcz qyfriw
rwg mi pibagRfg ixfzruyngrwgczrxgf.gy..pgzfgfmzfg yzwwgtnghm.wigyzt.x
fmigh.xpwghmr mgbrwfruvqrwmgfmrwgviuixzfr.ugzxigz  .djyrwmibagWq mgf..,
f.gzgvxizfixg.xgyiwwgiofiuf,grwgfmig .ubrfr.ug.cgfmig.jixzfrsiwg.c
isixngbiu.druzfr.ugrugIuvyzub,ghmr mgrwgfmigvxizfgh.xpm.qwig.cgfmi
h.xybag.xgRg .qybgxicixgn.qgf.gRxiyzub,ghmr mgrwgdzxpibgzwg.uig.cgfmi
hmrfig.xgiuyrvmfiuibgwj.fwg.ugfmigdzjag .ufxzwfgfmigjmnwr zyg .ubrfr.u
.cgfmigRxrwmghrfmgfmzfg.cgfmigU.xfmgZdixr zugRubrzu,g.xgfmigW.qfmgWiz
Rwyzubix,g.xgzung.fmixgwzszvigxz igtic.xigrfghzwgbivxzbibgtng .ufz f
hrfmgfmig rsryreibgdzuagNifgRgmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzfgfmzfgji.jyi’wgxqyixw
zxigzwghrwigzwgfmigzsixzvig.cg rsryreibgxqyixwagFmirxg .ubrfr.ug.uyn
jx.siwghmzfgwlqzyrbuiwwgdzng .uwrwfghrfmg rsryrezfr.uagRgmzxbynguiib
xicixgu.hgf.gfmigyzt.xixwgrug.qxgW.qfmixugWfzfiwghm.gjx.bq igfmigwfzjyi
ioj.xfwg.cgfmrwg .qufxn,gzubgzxigfmidwiysiwgzgwfzjyigjx.bq fr.ug.cgfmi
W.qfmagTqfgf.g .ucruigdnwiycgf.gfm.wighm.gzxigwzrbgf.gtigrug_d.bixzfi_
 rx qdwfzu iwa

D.wfgdiugzjjizxguisixgf.gmzsig .uwrbixibghmzfgzgm.qwigrw,gzubgzxi
z fqzyyngfm.qvmguiibyiwwyngj..xgzyygfmirxgyrsiwgti zqwigfmingfmrupgfmzf
fmingdqwfgmzsigwq mgzg.uigzwgfmirxguirvmt.xwgmzsiagZwgrcg.uighixigf.
hizxgzungw.xfg.cg .zfghmr mgfmigfzry.xgdrvmfg qfg.qfgc.xgmrd,g.x,
vxzbqzyyngyizsruvg.ccgjzydyizcgmzfg.xg zjg.cgh..b mq pgwpru,g .djyzru
.cgmzxbgfrdiwgti zqwigmig .qybgu.fgzcc.xbgf.gtqngmrdgzg x.hu!gRfgrw
j.wwrtyigf.grusiufgzgm.qwigwfryygd.xig .usiuriufgzubgyqoqxr.qwgfmzughi
mzsi,ghmr mgnifgzyygh.qybgzbdrfgfmzfgdzug .qybgu.fgzcc.xbgf.gjzngc.xa
Wmzyyghigzyhznwgwfqbngf.g.tfzrugd.xig.cgfmiwigfmruvw,gzubgu.fgw.difrdiw
f.gtig .ufiufghrfmgyiww?gWmzyygfmigxiwji fztyig rfreiugfmqwgvxzsiyn
fiz m,gtngjxi ijfgzubgiozdjyi,gfmigui iwwrfng.cgfmign.quvgdzu’w
jx.srbruvgzg ixfzruguqdtixg.cgwqjixcyq.qwgvy.h-wm.iw,gzubgqdtxiyyzw,
zubgidjfngvqiwfg mzdtixwgc.xgidjfngvqiwfw,gtic.xigmigbriw?gHmngwm.qyb
u.fg.qxgcqxurfqxigtigzwgwrdjyigzwgfmigZxzt’wg.xgfmigRubrzu’w?gHmiugR
fmrupg.cgfmigtiuicz f.xwg.cgfmigxz i,ghm.dghigmzsigzj.fmi.wreibgzw
diwwiuvixwgcx.dgmizsiu,gtizxixwg.cgbrsruigvrcfwgf.gdzu,gRgb.gu.fgwiigru
dngdrubgzungxifruqigzfgfmirxgmiiyw,gzung zx-y.zbg.cgczwmr.uztyi
cqxurfqxiag.xghmzfgrcgRghixigf.gzyy.h—h.qybgrfgu.fgtigzgwruvqyzx
zyy.hzu i?—fmzfg.qxgcqxurfqxigwm.qybgtigd.xig .djyiogfmzugfmigZxzt’w,
rugjx.j.xfr.ugzwghigzxigd.xzyyngzubgrufiyyi fqzyyngmrwgwqjixr.xw!gZf
jxiwiufg.qxgm.qwiwgzxig yqffixibgzubgbicryibghrfmgrf,gzubgzgv..b
m.qwihrcigh.qybgwhiijg.qfgfmigvxizfixgjzxfgruf.gfmigbqwfgm.yi,gzubgu.f
yizsigmixgd.xuruv’wgh.xpgqub.uiagD.xuruvgh.xp!gTngfmigtyqwmiwg.cgZqx.xz
zubgfmigdqwr g.cgDidu.u,ghmzfgwm.qybgtigdzu’wg_d.xuruvgh.xp_grugfmrw
h.xyb?gRgmzbgfmxiigjri iwg.cgyrdiwf.uig.ugdngbiwp,gtqfgRghzwgfixxrcrib
f.gcrubgfmzfgfmingxilqrxibgf.gtigbqwfibgbzryn,ghmiugfmigcqxurfqxig.cgdn
drubghzwgzyygqubqwfibgwfryy,gzubgRgfmxihgfmidg.qfgfmighrub.hgru
brwvqwfagM.h,gfmiu,g .qybgRgmzsigzgcqxurwmibgm.qwi?gRgh.qybgxzfmixgwrf
rugfmig.jiugzrx,gc.xgu.gbqwfgvzfmixwg.ugfmigvxzww,gquyiwwghmixigdzugmzw
tx.piugvx.quba

Rfgrwgfmigyqoqxr.qwgzubgbrwwrjzfibghm.gwifgfmigczwmr.uwghmr mgfmigmixb
w.gbryrviufyngc.yy.hagFmigfxzsiyyixghm.gwf.jwgzfgfmigtiwfgm.qwiw,gw.
 zyyib,gw..ugbrw .sixwgfmrw,gc.xgfmigjqtyr zuwgjxiwqdigmrdgf.gtigz
Wzxbzuzjzyqw,gzubgrcgmigxiwrvuibgmrdwiycgf.gfmirxgfiubixgdix riwgmi
h.qybgw..ugtig .djyifiyngidzw qyzfibagRgfmrupgfmzfgrugfmigxzryx.zbg zx
higzxigru yruibgf.gwjiubgd.xig.ugyqoqxngfmzug.ugwzcifngzubg .usiuriu i,
zubgrfgfmxizfiuwghrfm.qfgzffzruruvgfmiwigf.gti .digu.gtiffixgfmzugz
d.bixugbxzhruvgx..d,ghrfmgrfwgbrszuw,gzubg.ff.dzuw,gzubgwqu-wmzbiw,gzub
zgmqubxibg.fmixg.xriufzygfmruvw,ghmr mghigzxigfzpruvghiwfghrfmgqw,
rusiufibgc.xgfmigyzbriwg.cgfmigmzxidgzubgfmigiccidruzfiguzfrsiwg.cgfmi
 iyiwfrzygIdjrxi,ghmr mgK.uzfmzugwm.qybgtigzwmzdibgf.gpu.hgfmiguzdiw
.cagRgh.qybgxzfmixgwrfg.ugzgjqdjprugzubgmzsigrfgzyygf.gdnwiycgfmzugti
 x.hbibg.ugzgsiysifg qwmr.uagRgh.qybgxzfmixgxrbig.ugizxfmgrugzug.og zxf
hrfmgzgcxiig rx qyzfr.u,gfmzugv.gf.gmizsiugrugfmigczu ng zxg.cgzu
io qxwr.ugfxzrugzubgtxizfmigzg_dzyzxrz_gzyygfmighzna

Fmigsixngwrdjyr rfngzubguzpibuiwwg.cgdzu’wgyrcigrugfmigjxrdrfrsigzviw
rdjyngfmrwgzbszufzvigzfgyizwf,gfmzfgfmingyicfgmrdgwfryygtqfgzgw.k.qxuix
ruguzfqxiagHmiugmighzwgxicxiwmibghrfmgc..bgzubgwyiijgmig .ufidjyzfib
mrwgk.qxuingzvzruagMigbhiyf,gzwgrfghixi,grugzgfiufgrugfmrwgh.xyb,gzub
hzwgirfmixgfmxizbruvgfmigszyyinw,g.xg x.wwruvgfmigjyzruw,g.xg yrdtruv
fmigd.qufzrugf.jwagTqfgy.!gdiugmzsigti .digfmigf..ywg.cgfmirxgf..ywa
Fmigdzughm.grubijiubiufyngjyq pibgfmigcxqrfwghmiugmighzwgmquvxngrw
ti .digzgczxdix;gzubgmighm.gwf..bgqubixgzgfxiigc.xgwmiyfix,gz
m.qwipiijixagHigu.hgu.gy.uvixg zdjgzwgc.xgzgurvmf,gtqfgmzsigwiffyib
b.hug.ugizxfmgzubgc.xv.ffiugmizsiuagHigmzsigzb.jfibg mxrwfrzurfngdixiyn
zwgzugrdjx.sibgdifm.bg.cg_zvxr_- qyfqxiagHigmzsigtqryfgc.xgfmrwgh.xybgz
czdryngdzuwr.u,gzubgc.xgfmiguiofgzgczdryngf.dtagFmigtiwfgh.xpwg.cgzxf
zxigfmigiojxiwwr.ug.cgdzu’wgwfxqvvyigf.gcxiigmrdwiycgcx.dgfmrw
 .ubrfr.u,gtqfgfmigicci fg.cg.qxgzxfgrwgdixiyngf.gdzpigfmrwgy.hgwfzfi
 .dc.xfztyigzubgfmzfgmrvmixgwfzfigf.gtigc.xv.ffiuagFmixigrwgz fqzyyngu.
jyz igrugfmrwgsryyzvigc.xgzgh.xpg.cg_crui_gzxf,grcgzungmzbg .digb.hugf.
qw,gf.gwfzub,gc.xg.qxgyrsiw,g.qxgm.qwiwgzubgwfxiifw,gcqxurwmgu.gjx.jix
jibiwfzygc.xgrfagFmixigrwgu.fgzguzrygf.gmzuvgzgjr fqxig.u,gu.xgzgwmiyc
f.gxi irsigfmigtqwfg.cgzgmix.g.xgzgwzrufagHmiugRg .uwrbixgm.hg.qx
m.qwiwgzxigtqryfgzubgjzrbgc.x,g.xgu.fgjzrbgc.x,gzubgfmirxgrufixuzy
i .u.dngdzuzvibgzubgwqwfzruib,gRgh.ubixgfmzfgfmigcy..xgb.iwgu.fgvrsi
hzngqubixgfmigsrwrf.xghmryigmigrwgzbdrxruvgfmigvihvzhwgqj.ugfmi
dzufiy-jri i,gzubgyifgmrdgfmx.qvmgruf.gfmig iyyzx,gf.gw.digw.yrbgzub
m.uiwfgfm.qvmgizxfmngc.qubzfr.uagRg zuu.fgtqfgjix irsigfmzfgfmrwgw.
 zyyibgxr mgzubgxicruibgyrcigrwgzgfmruvgkqdjibgzf,gzubgRgb.gu.fgvifg.u
rugfmigiuk.ndiufg.cgfmig_crui_gzxfwghmr mgzb.xugrf,gdngzffiufr.ugtiruv
hm.yyng.  qjribghrfmgfmigkqdj;gc.xgRgxididtixgfmzfgfmigvxizfiwfgviuqrui
yizj,gbqigf.gmqdzugdqw yiwgzy.ui,g.ugxi .xb,grwgfmzfg.cg ixfzru
hzubixruvgZxztw,ghm.gzxigwzrbgf.gmzsig yizxibgfhiufn-crsigciifg.ugyisiy
vx.qubagHrfm.qfgcz frfr.qwgwqjj.xf,gdzugrwgwqxigf.g .digf.gizxfmgzvzru
tin.ubgfmzfgbrwfzu iagFmigcrxwfglqiwfr.ughmr mgRgzdgfidjfibgf.gjqfgf.
fmigjx.jxrif.xg.cgwq mgvxizfgrdjx.jxrifngrw,gHm.gt.ywfixwgn.q?gZxign.q
.uig.cgfmiguruifn-wisiughm.gczry,g.xg.cgfmigfmxiighm.gwq  iib?gZuwhix
digfmiwiglqiwfr.uw,gzubgfmiugjixmzjwgRgdzngy..pgzfgn.qxgtzhtyiwgzub
crubgfmidg.xuzdiufzyagFmig zxfgtic.xigfmigm.xwigrwguirfmixgtizqfrcqy
u.xgqwicqyagTic.xighig zugzb.xug.qxgm.qwiwghrfmgtizqfrcqyg.tki fwgfmi
hzyywgdqwfgtigwfxrjjib,gzubg.qxgyrsiwgdqwfgtigwfxrjjib,gzubgtizqfrcqy
m.qwipiijruvgzubgtizqfrcqygyrsruvgtigyzrbgc.xgzgc.qubzfr.u:gu.h,gz
fzwfigc.xgfmigtizqfrcqygrwgd.wfg qyfrszfibg.qfg.cgb..xw,ghmixigfmixigrw
u.gm.qwigzubgu.gm.qwipiijixa

.ybgK.muw.u,grugmrwg“H.ubix-H.xpruvgJx.srbiu i,”gwjizpruvg.cgfmigcrxwf
wiffyixwg.cgfmrwgf.hu,ghrfmghm.dgmighzwg .ufidj.xzxn,gfiyywgqwgfmzf
“fmingtqxx.hgfmidwiysiwgrugfmigizxfmgc.xgfmirxgcrxwfgwmiyfixgqubixgw.di
mryywrbi,gzub,g zwfruvgfmigw.rygzy.cfgqj.ugfrdtix,gfmingdzpigzgwd.pn
crxigzvzruwfgfmigizxfm,gzfgfmigmrvmiwfgwrbia”gFmingbrbgu.fg“jx.srbi
fmidgm.qwiw,”gwznwgmi,g“fryygfmigizxfm,gtngfmigY.xb’wgtyiwwruv,gtx.qvmf
c.xfmgtxizbgf.gciibgfmid,”gzubgfmigcrxwfgnizx’wg x.jghzwgw.gyrvmfgfmzf
“fminghixigc.x ibgf.g qfgfmirxgtxizbgsixngfmrugc.xgzgy.uvgwizw.ua”gFmi
wi xifzxng.cgfmigJx.sru ig.cgUihgUifmixyzub,ghxrfruvgrugBqf m,grug1650,
c.xgfmigruc.xdzfr.ug.cgfm.wighm.ghrwmibgf.gfzpigqjgyzubgfmixi,gwfzfiw
d.xigjzxfr qyzxyngfmzfg“fm.wigrugUihgUifmixyzub,gzubgiwji rzyyngrugUih
Iuvyzub,ghm.gmzsigu.gdizuwgf.gtqrybgczxdm.qwiwgzfgcrxwfgz  .xbruvgf.
fmirxghrwmiw,gbrvgzgwlqzxigjrfgrugfmigvx.qub,g iyyzxgczwmr.u,gwrog.x
wisiugciifgbiij,gzwgy.uvgzubgzwgtx.zbgzwgfmingfmrupgjx.jix,g zwigfmi
izxfmgruwrbighrfmgh..bgzyygx.qubgfmighzyy,gzubgyruigfmigh..bghrfmgfmi
tzxpg.cgfxiiwg.xgw.difmruvgiywigf.gjxisiufgfmig zsruvgrug.cgfmigizxfm;
cy..xgfmrwg iyyzxghrfmgjyzup,gzubghzruw .fgrfg.sixmizbgc.xgzg iryruv,
xzrwigzgx..cg.cgwjzxwg yizxgqj,gzubg .sixgfmigwjzxwghrfmgtzxpg.xgvxiiu
w.bw,gw.gfmzfgfming zugyrsigbxngzubghzxdgrugfmiwigm.qwiwghrfmgfmirx
iufrxigczdryriwgc.xgfh.,gfmxii,gzubgc.qxgnizxw,grfgtiruvgqubixwf..b
fmzfgjzxfrfr.uwgzxigxqugfmx.qvmgfm.wig iyyzxwghmr mgzxigzbzjfibgf.gfmi
wreig.cgfmigczdrynagFmighizyfmngzubgjxru rjzygdiugrugUihgIuvyzub,gru
fmigtivruuruvg.cgfmig .y.uriw,g .ddiu ibgfmirxgcrxwfgbhiyyruvgm.qwiwgru
fmrwgczwmr.ugc.xgfh.gxizw.uw;gcrxwfyn,grug.xbixgu.fgf.ghzwfigfrdigru
tqrybruv,gzubgu.fgf.ghzufgc..bgfmiguiofgwizw.u;gwi .ubyn,grug.xbixgu.f
f.gbrw .qxzvigj..xgyzt.xruvgji.jyighm.dgfmingtx.qvmfg.sixgruguqdtixw
cx.dgCzfmixyzubagRugfmig .qxwig.cgfmxiig.xgc.qxgnizxw,ghmiugfmig .qufxn
ti zdigzbzjfibgf.gzvxr qyfqxi,gfmingtqryfgfmidwiysiwgmzubw.digm.qwiw,
wjiubruvg.ugfmidgwisixzygfm.qwzubwa”

Rugfmrwg .qxwighmr mg.qxgzu iwf.xwgf..pgfmixighzwgzgwm.hg.cgjxqbiu igzf
yizwf,gzwgrcgfmirxgjxru rjyighixigf.gwzfrwcngfmigd.xigjxiwwruvghzufw
crxwfagTqfgzxigfmigd.xigjxiwwruvghzufwgwzfrwcribgu.h?gHmiugRgfmrupg.c
z lqrxruvgc.xgdnwiycg.uig.cg.qxgyqoqxr.qwgbhiyyruvw,gRgzdgbifixxib,
c.x,gw.gf.gwjizp,gfmig .qufxngrwgu.fgnifgzbzjfibgf.g_mqdzu_g qyfqxi,
zubghigzxigwfryygc.x ibgf.g qfg.qxg_wjrxrfqzy_gtxizbgczxgfmruuixgfmzu
.qxgc.xiczfmixwgbrbgfmirxghmizfiuagU.fgfmzfgzyygzx mrfi fqxzyg.xuzdiuf
rwgf.gtiguivyi fibgisiugrugfmigxqbiwfgjixr.bw;gtqfgyifg.qxgm.qwiwgcrxwf
tigyruibghrfmgtizqfn,ghmixigfming .digrug .ufz fghrfmg.qxgyrsiw,gyrpi
fmigfiuidiufg.cgfmigwmiyycrwm,gzubgu.fg.sixyzrbghrfmgrfagTqf,gzyzw!gR
mzsigtiiugruwrbig.uig.xgfh.g.cgfmid,gzubgpu.hghmzfgfmingzxigyruibghrfma

Fm.qvmghigzxigu.fgw.gbiviuixzfigtqfgfmzfghigdrvmfgj.wwrtyngyrsigrugz
 zsig.xgzghrvhzdg.xghizxgwpruwgf.bzn,grfg ixfzruyngrwgtiffixgf.gz  ijf
fmigzbszufzviw,gfm.qvmgw.gbizxyngt.qvmf,ghmr mgfmigrusiufr.ugzub
rubqwfxng.cgdzuprubg.ccixagRugwq mgzguirvmt.xm..bgzwgfmrw,gt.zxbwgzub
wmruvyiw,gyrdigzubgtxr pw,gzxig mizjixgzubgd.xigizwryng.tfzruibgfmzu
wqrfztyig zsiw,g.xghm.yigy.vw,g.xgtzxpgrugwqccr riufglqzufrfriw,g.x
isiughiyy-fidjixibg yzng.xgcyzfgwf.uiwagRgwjizpgqubixwfzubruvyng.ugfmrw
wqtki f,gc.xgRgmzsigdzbigdnwiycgz lqzrufibghrfmgrfgt.fmgfmi.xifr zyyn
zubgjxz fr zyynagHrfmgzgyrffyigd.xighrfghigdrvmfgqwigfmiwigdzfixrzywgw.
zwgf.gti .digxr mixgfmzugfmigxr miwfgu.hgzxi,gzubgdzpig.qxg rsryrezfr.u
zgtyiwwruvagFmig rsryreibgdzugrwgzgd.xigiojixriu ibgzubghrwixgwzszvia
Tqfgf.gdzpigmzwfigf.gdng.hugiojixrdiufa



Uizxgfmigiubg.cgDzx m,g1845,gRgt.xx.hibgzugzoigzubghiufgb.hugf.gfmi
h..bwgtngHzybiugJ.ub,guizxiwfgf.ghmixigRgrufiubibgf.gtqrybgdngm.qwi,
zubgtivzugf.g qfgb.hugw.digfzyy,gzxx.hnghmrfigjruiw,gwfryygrugfmirx
n.qfm,gc.xgfrdtixagRfgrwgbrccr qyfgf.gtivrughrfm.qfgt.xx.hruv,gtqf
jixmzjwgrfgrwgfmigd.wfgviuix.qwg .qxwigfmqwgf.gjixdrfgn.qxgciyy.h-diu
f.gmzsigzugrufixiwfgrugn.qxgiufixjxrwiagFmig.huixg.cgfmigzoi,gzwgmi
xiyizwibgmrwgm.ybg.ugrf,gwzrbgfmzfgrfghzwgfmigzjjyig.cgmrwgini;gtqfgR
xifqxuibgrfgwmzxjixgfmzugRgxi irsibgrfagRfghzwgzgjyizwzufgmryywrbi
hmixigRgh.xpib,g .sixibghrfmgjruigh..bw,gfmx.qvmghmr mgRgy..pibg.qfg.u
fmigj.ub,gzubgzgwdzyyg.jiugcriybgrugfmigh..bwghmixigjruiwgzubgmr p.xriw
hixigwjxruvruvgqjagFmigr igrugfmigj.ubghzwgu.fgnifgbrww.ysib,gfm.qvm
fmixighixigw.dig.jiugwjz iw,gzubgrfghzwgzyygbzxpg .y.xibgzubgwzfqxzfib
hrfmghzfixagFmixighixigw.digwyrvmfgcyqxxriwg.cgwu.hgbqxruvgfmigbznw
fmzfgRgh.xpibgfmixi;gtqfgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfghmiugRg zdig.qfg.ugf.gfmi
xzryx.zb,g.ugdnghzngm.di,grfwgniyy.hgwzubgmizjgwfxif mibgzhzngvyizdruv
rugfmigmzengzfd.wjmixi,gzubgfmigxzrywgwm.uigrugfmigwjxruvgwqu,gzubgR
mizxbgfmigyzxpgzubgjihiigzubg.fmixgtrxbwgzyxizbng .digf.g .ddiu i
zu.fmixgnizxghrfmgqwagFminghixigjyizwzufgwjxruvgbznw,grughmr mgfmi
hrufixg.cgdzu’wgbrw .ufiufghzwgfmzhruvgzwghiyygzwgfmigizxfm,gzubgfmi
yrcigfmzfgmzbgyzrugf.xjrbgtivzugf.gwfxif mgrfwiycag.uigbzn,ghmiugdngzoi
mzbg .dig.ccgzubgRgmzbg qfgzgvxiiugmr p.xngc.xgzghibvi,gbxrsruvgrfghrfm
zgwf.ui,gzubgmzbgjyz ibgfmighm.yigf.gw.zpgrugzgj.ubgm.yigrug.xbixgf.
whiyygfmigh..b,gRgwzhgzgwfxrjibgwuzpigxqugruf.gfmighzfix,gzubgmigyzng.u
fmigt.ff.d,gzjjzxiufynghrfm.qfgru .usiuriu i,gzwgy.uvgzwgRgwfznib
fmixi,g.xgd.xigfmzugzglqzxfixg.cgzugm.qx;gjixmzjwgti zqwigmigmzbgu.f
nifgczrxyng .dig.qfg.cgfmigf.xjrbgwfzfiagRfgzjjizxibgf.gdigfmzfgc.xgz
yrpigxizw.ugdiugxidzrugrugfmirxgjxiwiufgy.hgzubgjxrdrfrsig .ubrfr.u;
tqfgrcgfmingwm.qybgciiygfmigrucyqiu ig.cgfmigwjxruvg.cgwjxruvwgzx.qwruv
fmid,gfmingh.qybg.cgui iwwrfngxrwigf.gzgmrvmixgzubgd.xigifmixizygyrcia
Rgmzbgjxisr.qwyngwiiugfmigwuzpiwgrugcx.wfngd.xuruvwgrugdngjzfmghrfm
j.xfr.uwg.cgfmirxgt.briwgwfryyguqdtgzubgrucyiortyi,ghzrfruvgc.xgfmigwqu
f.gfmzhgfmidag.ugfmig1wfg.cgZjxrygrfgxzruibgzubgdiyfibgfmigr i,gzubgru
fmigizxyngjzxfg.cgfmigbzn,ghmr mghzwgsixngc.vvn,gRgmizxbgzgwfxzngv..wi
vx.jruvgzt.qfg.sixgfmigj.ubgzubg z pyruvgzwgrcgy.wf,g.xgyrpigfmigwjrxrf
.cgfmigc.va

W.gRghiufg.ugc.xgw.digbznwg qffruvgzubgmihruvgfrdtix,gzubgzyw.gwfqbw
zubgxzcfixw,gzyyghrfmgdnguzxx.hgzoi,gu.fgmzsruvgdzung .ddqur ztyig.x
w m.yzx-yrpigfm.qvmfw,gwruvruvgf.gdnwiyc,—

gggggDiugwzngfmingpu.hgdzungfmruvw;
gggggTqfgy.!gfmingmzsigfzpiughruvw,—
gggggFmigzxfwgzubgw riu iw,
gggggZubgzgfm.qwzubgzjjyrzu iw;
gggggFmighrubgfmzfgty.hw
gggggRwgzyygfmzfgzungt.bngpu.hwa

Rgmihibgfmigdzrugfrdtixwgwrogru miwgwlqzxi,gd.wfg.cgfmigwfqbwg.ugfh.
wrbiwg.uyn,gzubgfmigxzcfixwgzubgcy..xgfrdtixwg.ug.uigwrbi,gyizsruvgfmi
xiwfg.cgfmigtzxpg.u,gw.gfmzfgfminghixigkqwfgzwgwfxzrvmfgzubgdq m
wfx.uvixgfmzugwzhibg.uiwagIz mgwfr pghzwg zxicqyyngd.xfrwibg.xgfiu.uib
tngrfwgwfqdj,gc.xgRgmzbgt.xx.hibg.fmixgf..ywgtngfmrwgfrdiagDngbznwgru
fmigh..bwghixigu.fgsixngy.uvg.uiw;gnifgRgqwqzyyng zxxribgdngbruuixg.c
txizbgzubgtqffix,gzubgxizbgfmiguihwjzjixgrughmr mgrfghzwghxzjjib,gzf
u..u,gwrffruvgzdrbgfmigvxiiugjruigt.qvmwghmr mgRgmzbg qfg.cc,gzubgf.gdn
txizbghzwgrdjzxfibgw.dig.cgfmirxgcxzvxzu i,gc.xgdngmzubwghixig .sixib
hrfmgzgfmr pg .zfg.cgjrf magTic.xigRgmzbgb.uigRghzwgd.xigfmigcxriub
fmzugfmigc.ig.cgfmigjruigfxii,gfm.qvmgRgmzbg qfgb.hugw.dig.cgfmid,
mzsruvgti .digtiffixgz lqzrufibghrfmgrfagW.difrdiwgzgxzdtyixgrugfmi
h..bghzwgzffxz fibgtngfmigw.qubg.cgdngzoi,gzubghig mzffibgjyizwzufyn
.sixgfmig mrjwghmr mgRgmzbgdzbia

Tngfmigdrbbyig.cgZjxry,gc.xgRgdzbigu.gmzwfigrugdngh.xp,gtqfgxzfmixgdzbi
fmigd.wfg.cgrf,gdngm.qwighzwgcxzdibgzubgxizbngc.xgfmigxzrwruvagRgmzb
zyxizbngt.qvmfgfmigwmzufng.cgKzdiwg .yyruw,gzugRxrwmdzughm.gh.xpibg.u
fmigCrf mtqxvgXzryx.zb,gc.xgt.zxbwagKzdiwg .yyruw’gwmzufnghzw
 .uwrbixibgzugqu .dd.uyngcruig.uiagHmiugRg zyyibgf.gwiigrfgmighzwgu.f
zfgm.diagRghzypibgzt.qfgfmig.qfwrbi,gzfgcrxwfgqu.twixsibgcx.dghrfmru,
fmighrub.hghzwgw.gbiijgzubgmrvmagRfghzwg.cgwdzyygbrdiuwr.uw,ghrfmgz
jizpibg .ffzvigx..c,gzubgu.fgdq mgiywigf.gtigwiiu,gfmigbrxfgtiruv
xzrwibgcrsigciifgzyygzx.qubgzwgrcgrfghixigzg .dj.wfgmizjagFmigx..cghzw
fmigw.qubiwfgjzxf,gfm.qvmgzgv..bgbizyghzxjibgzubgdzbigtxrffyigtngfmi
wquagB..x-wryygfmixighzwgu.ui,gtqfgzgjixiuurzygjzwwzvigc.xgfmigmiuw
qubixgfmigb..xgt.zxbagDxwag ag zdigf.gfmigb..xgzubgzwpibgdigf.gsrihgrf
cx.dgfmigruwrbiagFmigmiuwghixigbxrsiugrugtngdngzjjx.z magRfghzwgbzxp,
zubgmzbgzgbrxfgcy..xgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,gbzup,g yzddn,gzubgzvqrwm,g.uyn
mixigzgt.zxbgzubgfmixigzgt.zxbghmr mgh.qybgu.fgtizxgxid.szyagWmi
yrvmfibgzgyzdjgf.gwm.hgdigfmigruwrbig.cgfmigx..cgzubgfmighzyyw,gzub
zyw.gfmzfgfmigt.zxbgcy..xgiofiubibgqubixgfmigtib,ghzxuruvgdigu.fgf.
wfijgruf.gfmig iyyzx,gzgw.xfg.cgbqwfgm.yigfh.gciifgbiijagRugmixg.hu
h.xbw,gfminghixig“v..bgt.zxbwg.sixmizb,gv..bgt.zxbwgzyygzx.qub,gzubgz
v..bghrub.h,”—.cgfh.ghm.yigwlqzxiwg.xrvruzyyn,g.uyngfmig zfgmzbgjzwwib
.qfgfmzfghzngyzfiynagFmixighzwgzgwf.si,gzgtib,gzubgzgjyz igf.gwrf,gzu
ruczufgrugfmigm.qwighmixigrfghzwgt.xu,gzgwrypgjzxzw.y,gvryf-cxzdib
y..pruv-vyzww,gzubgzgjzfiufguihg .cciigdryyguzryibgf.gzug.zpgwzjyruv,
zyygf.ybagFmigtzxvzrughzwgw..ug .u yqbib,gc.xgKzdiwgmzbgrugfmi
dizuhmryigxifqxuibagRgf.gjzngc.qxgb.yyzxwgzubgfhiufn-crsig iufw
f.-urvmf,gmigf.gsz zfigzfgcrsigf.-d.xx.hgd.xuruv,gwiyyruvgf.gu.t.bn
iywigdizuhmryi:gRgf.gfzpigj.wwiwwr.ugzfgwroagRfghixighiyy,gmigwzrb,gf.
tigfmixigizxyn,gzubgzufr rjzfig ixfzrugrubrwfru fgtqfghm.yyngqukqwf
 yzrdwg.ugfmigw .xig.cgvx.qubgxiufgzubgcqiyagFmrwgmigzwwqxibgdighzwgfmi
.uyngiu qdtxzu iagZfgwrogRgjzwwibgmrdgzubgmrwgczdryng.ugfmigx.zbag.ui
yzxvigtqubyigmiybgfmirxgzyy,—tib,g .ccii-dryy,gy..pruv-vyzww,gmiuw,—zyy
tqfgfmig zf,gwmigf..pgf.gfmigh..bwgzubgti zdigzghrybg zf,gzub,gzwgR
yizxuibgzcfixhzxb,gfx.bgrugzgfxzjgwifgc.xgh..b mq pw,gzubgw.gti zdigz
bizbg zfgzfgyzwfa

Rgf..pgb.hugfmrwgbhiyyruvgfmigwzdigd.xuruv,gbxzhruvgfmiguzryw,gzub
xid.sibgrfgf.gfmigj.ubgwrbigtngwdzyyg zxfy.zbw,gwjxizbruvgfmigt.zxbwg.u
fmigvxzwwgfmixigf.gtyiz mgzubghzxjgtz pgzvzrugrugfmigwquag.uigizxyn
fmxqwmgvzsigdigzgu.fig.xgfh.gzwgRgbx.sigzy.uvgfmigh..byzubgjzfmagRghzw
ruc.xdibgfxiz mix.qwyngtngzgn.quvgJzfxr pgfmzfguirvmt.xgWiiyin,gzu
Rxrwmdzu,grugfmigrufixszywg.cgfmig zxfruv,gfxzuwcixxibgfmigwfryy
f.yixztyi,gwfxzrvmf,gzubgbxrsztyiguzryw,gwfzjyiw,gzubgwjrpiwgf.gmrw
j. pif,gzubgfmiugwf..bghmiugRg zdigtz pgf.gjzwwgfmigfrdig.cgbzn,gzub
y..pgcxiwmyngqj,gqu .u ixuib,ghrfmgwjxruvgfm.qvmfw,gzfgfmigbiszwfzfr.u;
fmixigtiruvgzgbizxfmg.cgh.xp,gzwgmigwzrbagMighzwgfmixigf.gxijxiwiuf
wji fzf.xb.d,gzubgmiyjgdzpigfmrwgwiidruvyngruwrvurcr zufgisiufg.uighrfm
fmigxid.szyg.cgfmigv.bwg.cgFx.na

Rgbqvgdng iyyzxgrugfmigwrbig.cgzgmryygwy.jruvgf.gfmigw.qfm,ghmixigz
h..b mq pgmzbgc.xdixyngbqvgmrwgtqxx.h,gb.hugfmx.qvmgwqdz mgzub
tyz ptixxngx..fw,gzubgfmigy.hiwfgwfzrug.cgsivifzfr.u,gwrogciifgwlqzxi
tngwisiugbiij,gf.gzgcruigwzubghmixigj.fzf.iwgh.qybgu.fgcxiieigrugzun
hrufixagFmigwrbiwghixigyicfgwmiysruv,gzubgu.fgwf.uib;gtqfgfmigwqu
mzsruvguisixgwm.uig.ugfmid,gfmigwzubgwfryygpiijwgrfwgjyz iagRfghzwgtqf
fh.gm.qxw’gh.xpagRgf..pgjzxfr qyzxgjyizwqxigrugfmrwgtxizpruvg.cgvx.qub,
c.xgrugzyd.wfgzyygyzfrfqbiwgdiugbrvgruf.gfmigizxfmgc.xgzugilqztyi
fidjixzfqxiagQubixgfmigd.wfgwjyiubrbgm.qwigrugfmig rfngrwgwfryygf.gti
c.qubgfmig iyyzxghmixigfmingwf.xigfmirxgx..fwgzwg.cg.yb,gzubgy.uvgzcfix
fmigwqjixwfxq fqxigmzwgbrwzjjizxibgj.wfixrfngxidzxpgrfwgbiufgrugfmi
izxfmagFmigm.qwigrwgwfryygtqfgzgw.xfg.cgj.x mgzfgfmigiufxzu ig.cgz
tqxx.ha

Zfgyiuvfm,grugfmigtivruuruvg.cgDzn,ghrfmgfmigmiyjg.cgw.dig.cgdn
z lqzrufzu iw,gxzfmixgf.grdjx.sigw.gv..bgzug.  zwr.ugc.xguirvmt.xyruiww
fmzugcx.dgzungui iwwrfn,gRgwifgqjgfmigcxzdig.cgdngm.qwiagU.gdzughzw
isixgd.xigm.u.xibgrugfmig mzxz fixg.cgmrwgxzrwixwgfmzugRagFmingzxi
biwfruib,gRgfxqwf,gf.gzwwrwfgzfgfmigxzrwruvg.cgy.cfrixgwfxq fqxiwg.ui
bznagRgtivzugf.g.  qjngdngm.qwig.ugfmig4fmg.cgKqyn,gzwgw..ugzwgrfghzw
t.zxbibgzubgx..cib,gc.xgfmigt.zxbwghixig zxicqyyngcizfmix-ibvibgzub
yzjjib,gw.gfmzfgrfghzwgjixci fyngrdjixsr.qwgf.gxzru;gtqfgtic.xi
t.zxbruvgRgyzrbgfmigc.qubzfr.ug.cgzg mrduingzfg.uigiub,gtxruvruvgfh.
 zxfy.zbwg.cgwf.uiwgqjgfmigmryygcx.dgfmigj.ubgrugdngzxdwagRgtqryfgfmi
 mrduingzcfixgdngm.iruvgrugfmigczyy,gtic.xigzgcrxigti zdigui iwwzxngc.x
hzxdfm,gb.ruvgdng ..pruvgrugfmigdizughmryig.qfg.cgb..xwg.ugfmigvx.qub,
izxyngrugfmigd.xuruv:ghmr mgd.bigRgwfryygfmrupgrwgrugw.digxiwji fwgd.xi
 .usiuriufgzubgzvxiiztyigfmzugfmigqwqzyg.uiagHmiugrfgwf.xdibgtic.xigdn
txizbghzwgtzpib,gRgcroibgzgcihgt.zxbwg.sixgfmigcrxi,gzubgwzfgqubixgfmid
f.ghzf mgdngy.zc,gzubgjzwwibgw.digjyizwzufgm.qxwgrugfmzfghznagRugfm.wi
bznw,ghmiugdngmzubwghixigdq mgidjy.nib,gRgxizbgtqfgyrffyi,gtqfgfmi
yizwfgw xzjwg.cgjzjixghmr mgyzng.ugfmigvx.qub,gdngm.ybix,g.x
fztyi y.fm,gzcc.xbibgdigzwgdq mgiufixfzrudiuf,grugcz fgzuwhixibgfmi
wzdigjqxj.wigzwgfmigRyrzba



Rfgh.qybgtigh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gtqrybgwfryygd.xigbiyrtixzfiyngfmzugR
brb,g .uwrbixruv,gc.xgruwfzu i,ghmzfgc.qubzfr.ugzgb..x,gzghrub.h,gz
 iyyzx,gzgvzxxif,gmzsigrugfmiguzfqxig.cgdzu,gzubgjix mzu iguisix
xzrwruvgzungwqjixwfxq fqxigqufryghigc.qubgzgtiffixgxizw.ugc.xgrfgfmzu
.qxgfidj.xzygui iwwrfriwgisiuagFmixigrwgw.dig.cgfmigwzdigcrfuiwwgrugz
dzu’wgtqrybruvgmrwg.hugm.qwigfmzfgfmixigrwgrugzgtrxb’wgtqrybruvgrfwg.hu
uiwfagHm.gpu.hwgtqfgrcgdiug .uwfxq fibgfmirxgbhiyyruvwghrfmgfmirxg.hu
mzubw,gzubgjx.srbibgc..bgc.xgfmidwiysiwgzubgczdryriwgwrdjyngzub
m.uiwfyngiu.qvm,gfmigj.ifr gcz qyfngh.qybgtigqursixwzyyngbisiy.jib,gzw
trxbwgqursixwzyyngwruvghmiugfmingzxigw.giuvzvib?gTqfgzyzw!ghigb.gyrpi
 .htrxbwgzubg q p..w,ghmr mgyzngfmirxgivvwgruguiwfwghmr mg.fmixgtrxbw
mzsigtqryf,gzubg miixgu.gfxzsiyyixghrfmgfmirxg mzffixruvgzubgqudqwr zy
u.fiwagWmzyyghigc.xisixgxiwrvugfmigjyizwqxig.cg .uwfxq fr.ugf.gfmi
 zxjiufix?gHmzfgb.iwgzx mrfi fqxigzd.qufgf.grugfmigiojixriu ig.cgfmi
dzwwg.cgdiu?gRguisixgrugzyygdnghzypwg zdigz x.wwgzgdzugiuvzvibgrugw.
wrdjyigzubguzfqxzygzug.  qjzfr.ugzwgtqrybruvgmrwgm.qwiagHigtiy.uvgf.
fmig .ddqurfnagRfgrwgu.fgfmigfzry.xgzy.uighm.grwgfmigurufmgjzxfg.cgz
dzu;grfgrwgzwgdq mgfmigjxiz mix,gzubgfmigdix mzuf,gzubgfmigczxdixa
Hmixigrwgfmrwgbrsrwr.ug.cgyzt.xgf.giub?gzubghmzfg.tki fgb.iwgrfgcruzyyn
wixsi?gU.gb.qtfgzu.fmixg_dzn_gzyw.gfmrupgc.xgdi;gtqfgrfgrwgu.f
fmixic.xigbiwrxztyigfmzfgmigwm.qybgb.gw.gf.gfmigio yqwr.ug.cgdn
fmrupruvgc.xgdnwiyca

Fxqi,gfmixigzxigzx mrfi fwgw.g zyyibgrugfmrwg .qufxn,gzubgRgmzsigmizxb
.cg.uigzfgyizwfgj.wwiwwibghrfmgfmigrbizg.cgdzpruvgzx mrfi fqxzy
.xuzdiufwgmzsigzg .xig.cgfxqfm,gzgui iwwrfn,gzubgmiu igzgtizqfn,gzwgrc
rfghixigzgxisiyzfr.ugf.gmrdagZyygsixnghiyygjixmzjwgcx.dgmrwgj.rufg.c
srih,gtqfg.uyngzgyrffyigtiffixgfmzugfmig .dd.ugbryiffzufrwdagZ
wiufrdiufzygxic.xdixgrugzx mrfi fqxi,gmigtivzugzfgfmig .xur i,gu.fgzf
fmigc.qubzfr.uagRfghzwg.uyngm.hgf.gjqfgzg .xig.cgfxqfmghrfmrugfmi
.xuzdiufw,gfmzfgisixngwqvzxgjyqdgrugcz fgdrvmfgmzsigzugzyd.ubg.x
 zxzhzngwiibgrugrf,—fm.qvmgRgm.ybgfmzfgzyd.ubwgzxigd.wfghm.yiw.di
hrfm.qfgfmigwqvzx,—zubgu.fgm.hgfmigrumztrfzuf,gfmigrubhiyyix,gdrvmf
tqrybgfxqynghrfmrugzubghrfm.qf,gzubgyifgfmig.xuzdiufwgfzpig zxig.c
fmidwiysiwagHmzfgxizw.uztyigdzugisixgwqjj.wibgfmzfg.xuzdiufwghixi
w.difmruvg.qfhzxbgzubgrugfmigwprugdixiyn,—fmzfgfmigf.xf.rwigv.fgmrw
wj.ffibgwmiyy,g.xgfmigwmiyycrwmgrfwgd.fmix-.’-jizxygfrufw,gtngwq mgz
 .ufxz fgzwgfmigrumztrfzufwg.cgTx.zbhzngfmirxgFxrurfng mqx m?gTqfgzgdzu
mzwgu.gd.xigf.gb.ghrfmgfmigwfnyig.cgzx mrfi fqxig.cgmrwgm.qwigfmzugz
f.xf.rwighrfmgfmzfg.cgrfwgwmiyy:gu.xguiibgfmigw.ybrixgtigw.grbyigzwgf.
fxngf.gjzrufgfmigjxi rwig .y.xg.cgmrwgsrxfqig.ugmrwgwfzubzxbagFmigiuidn
hryygcrubgrfg.qfagMigdzngfqxugjzyighmiugfmigfxrzyg .diwagFmrwgdzu
wiidibgf.gdigf.gyizug.sixgfmig .xur i,gzubgfrdrbynghmrwjixgmrwgmzyc
fxqfmgf.gfmigxqbig.  qjzufwghm.gxizyyngpuihgrfgtiffixgfmzugmiagHmzfg.c
zx mrfi fqxzygtizqfngRgu.hgwii,gRgpu.hgmzwgvxzbqzyyngvx.hugcx.dghrfmru
.qfhzxb,g.qfg.cgfmigui iwwrfriwgzubg mzxz fixg.cgfmigrubhiyyix,ghm.grw
fmig.uyngtqrybix,—.qfg.cgw.digqu .uw r.qwgfxqfmcqyuiww,gzubgu.tyiuiww,
hrfm.qfgisixgzgfm.qvmfgc.xgfmigzjjizxzu igzubghmzfisixgzbbrfr.uzy
tizqfng.cgfmrwgprubgrwgbiwfruibgf.gtigjx.bq ibghryygtigjxi ibibgtngz
yrpigqu .uw r.qwgtizqfng.cgyrciagFmigd.wfgrufixiwfruvgbhiyyruvwgrugfmrw
 .qufxn,gzwgfmigjzrufixgpu.hw,gzxigfmigd.wfgqujxifiubruv,gmqdtyigy.v
mqfwgzubg .ffzviwg.cgfmigj..xg .dd.uyn;grfgrwgfmigyrcig.cgfmi
rumztrfzufwghm.wigwmiyywgfmingzxi,gzubgu.fgzungji qyrzxrfngrugfmirx
wqxcz iwgdixiyn,ghmr mgdzpiwgfmidg_jr fqxiwlqi;_gzubgilqzyyn
rufixiwfruvghryygtigfmig rfreiu’wgwqtqxtzugt.o,ghmiugmrwgyrcigwmzyygti
zwgwrdjyigzubgzwgzvxiiztyigf.gfmigrdzvruzfr.u,gzubgfmixigrwgzwgyrffyi
wfxzruruvgzcfixgicci fgrugfmigwfnyig.cgmrwgbhiyyruvagZgvxizfgjx.j.xfr.u
.cgzx mrfi fqxzyg.xuzdiufwgzxigyrfixzyyngm.yy.h,gzubgzgWijfidtixgvzyi
h.qybgwfxrjgfmidg.cc,gyrpigt.xx.hibgjyqdiw,ghrfm.qfgrukqxngf.gfmi
wqtwfzufrzywagFming zugb.ghrfm.qfg_zx mrfi fqxi_ghm.gmzsigu.g.yrsiwgu.x
hruiwgrugfmig iyyzxagHmzfgrcgzugilqzygzb.ghixigdzbigzt.qfgfmig.xuzdiufw
.cgwfnyigrugyrfixzfqxi,gzubgfmigzx mrfi fwg.cg.qxgtrtyiwgwjiufgzwgdq m
frdigzt.qfgfmirxg .xur iwgzwgfmigzx mrfi fwg.cg.qxg mqx miwgb.?gW.gzxi
dzbigfmig_tiyyiw-yiffxiw_gzubgfmig_tizqo-zxfw_gzubgfmirxgjx.ciww.xwa
Dq mgrfg .u ixuwgzgdzu,gc.xw..fm,gm.hgzgcihgwfr pwgzxigwyzufibg.sixgmrd
.xgqubixgmrd,gzubghmzfg .y.xwgzxigbzqtibgqj.ugmrwgt.oagRfgh.qybgwrvurcn
w.dihmzf,grc,grugzungizxuiwfgwiuwi,g_mi_gwyzufibgfmidgzubgbzqtibgrf;
tqfgfmigwjrxrfgmzsruvgbijzxfibg.qfg.cgfmigfiuzuf,grfgrwg.cgzgjri ighrfm
 .uwfxq fruvgmrwg.hug .ccru,—fmigzx mrfi fqxig.cgfmigvxzsi,gzub
“ zxjiufix”grwgtqfgzu.fmixguzdigc.xg“ .ccru-dzpixa”g.uigdzugwznw,gru
mrwgbiwjzrxg.xgrubrccixiu igf.gyrci,gfzpigqjgzgmzubcqyg.cgfmigizxfmgzf
n.qxgciif,gzubgjzrufgn.qxgm.qwigfmzfg .y.xagRwgmigfmrupruvg.cgmrwgyzwf
zubguzxx.hgm.qwi?gF.wwgqjgzg .jjixgc.xgrfgzwghiyyagHmzfgzugztqubzu ig.c
yirwqxigmigdqwfgmzsi!gHmngb.gn.qgfzpigqjgzgmzubcqyg.cgbrxf?gTiffix
jzrufgn.qxgm.qwign.qxg.hug .djyior.u;gyifgrfgfqxugjzyig.xgtyqwmgc.x
n.qagZugiufixjxrwigf.grdjx.sigfmigwfnyig.cg .ffzvigzx mrfi fqxi!gHmiu
n.qgmzsigv.fgdng.xuzdiufwgxizbngRghryyghizxgfmida

Tic.xighrufixgRgtqryfgzg mrduin,gzubgwmruvyibgfmigwrbiwg.cgdngm.qwi,
hmr mghixigzyxizbngrdjixsr.qwgf.gxzru,ghrfmgrdjixci fgzubgwzjjn
wmruvyiwgdzbig.cgfmigcrxwfgwyr ig.cgfmigy.v,ghm.wigibviwgRghzwg.tyrvib
f.gwfxzrvmfiughrfmgzgjyzuia

Rgmzsigfmqwgzgfrvmfgwmruvyibgzubgjyzwfixibgm.qwi,gfiugciifghrbigtn
crcfiiugy.uv,gzubgirvmf-ciifgj.wfw,ghrfmgzgvzxxifgzubgzg y.wif,gzgyzxvi
hrub.hg.ugiz mgwrbi,gfh.gfxzjgb..xw,g.uigb..xgzfgfmigiub,gzubgzgtxr p
crxijyz ig.jj.wrfiagFmigioz fg .wfg.cgdngm.qwi,gjznruvgfmigqwqzygjxr i
c.xgwq mgdzfixrzywgzwgRgqwib,gtqfgu.fg .qufruvgfmigh.xp,gzyyg.cghmr m
hzwgb.uigtngdnwiyc,ghzwgzwgc.yy.hw;gzubgRgvrsigfmigbifzrywgti zqwigsixn
cihgzxigztyigf.gfiyygioz fynghmzfgfmirxgm.qwiwg .wf,gzubgcihixgwfryy,
rcgzun,gfmigwijzxzfig .wfg.cgfmigszxr.qwgdzfixrzywghmr mg .dj.wigfmid:—


ggggT.zxbwaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$g8a03½,gd.wfyngwmzufngt.zxbwa
ggggXicqwigwmruvyiwgc.xgx..cgwrbiw,aagg4a00
ggggYzfmw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg1a25
ggggFh.gwi .ub-mzubghrub.hw
ggggggghrfmgvyzww,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg2a43
gggg.uigfm.qwzubg.ybgtxr p,aaaaaaaaaagg4a00
ggggFh.g zwpwg.cgyrdi,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg2a40ggFmzfghzwgmrvma
ggggMzrx,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a31ggD.xigfmzugRguiibiba
ggggDzufyi-fxiigrx.u,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a15
ggggUzryw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg3a90
ggggMruviwgzubgw xihw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a14
ggggYzf m,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a10
gggg mzyp,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a01
ggggFxzuwj.xfzfr.u,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg1a40ggRg zxxribgzgv..bgjzxf
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg————g.ugdngtz pa
ggggggggRugzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$28a12½


Fmiwigzxigzyygfmigdzfixrzywgio ijfruvgfmigfrdtixgwf.uiwgzubgwzub,ghmr m
Rg yzrdibgtngwlqzffix’wgxrvmfagRgmzsigzyw.gzgwdzyygh..b-wmibgzbk.ruruv,
dzbig mricyng.cgfmigwfqccghmr mghzwgyicfgzcfixgtqrybruvgfmigm.qwia

Rgrufiubgf.gtqrybgdigzgm.qwighmr mghryygwqxjzwwgzung.ugfmigdzrugwfxiif
rug .u .xbgrugvxzubiqxgzubgyqoqxn,gzwgw..ugzwgrfgjyizwiwgdigzwgdq mgzub
hryyg .wfgdigu.gd.xigfmzugdngjxiwiufg.uia

Rgfmqwgc.qubgfmzfgfmigwfqbiufghm.ghrwmiwgc.xgzgwmiyfixg zug.tfzrug.ui
c.xgzgyrcifrdigzfgzugiojiuwigu.fgvxizfixgfmzugfmigxiufghmr mgmigu.h
jznwgzuuqzyynagRcgRgwiidgf.gt.zwfgd.xigfmzugrwgti .druv,gdngio qwigrw
fmzfgRgtxzvgc.xgmqdzurfngxzfmixgfmzugc.xgdnwiyc;gzubgdngwm.xf .druvw
zubgru .uwrwfiu riwgb.gu.fgzcci fgfmigfxqfmg.cgdngwfzfidiufa
U.fhrfmwfzubruvgdq mg zufgzubgmnj. xrwn,— mzccghmr mgRgcrubgrf
brccr qyfgf.gwijzxzfigcx.dgdnghmizf,gtqfgc.xghmr mgRgzdgzwgw.xxngzwgzun
dzu,—Rghryygtxizfmigcxiiyngzubgwfxif mgdnwiycgrugfmrwgxiwji f,grfgrw
wq mgzgxiyricgf.gt.fmgfmigd.xzygzubgjmnwr zygwnwfid;gzubgRgzdgxiw.ysib
fmzfgRghryygu.fgfmx.qvmgmqdryrfngti .digfmigbisry’wgzff.xuinagRghryy
iubizs.xgf.gwjizpgzgv..bgh.xbgc.xgfmigfxqfmagZfg zdtxrbvig .yyivigfmi
dixigxiufg.cgzgwfqbiuf’wgx..d,ghmr mgrwg.uyngzgyrffyigyzxvixgfmzugdn
.hu,grwgfmrxfngb.yyzxwgiz mgnizx,gfm.qvmgfmig .xj.xzfr.ugmzbgfmi
zbszufzvig.cgtqrybruvgfmrxfn-fh.gwrbigtngwrbigzubgqubixg.uigx..c,gzub
fmig.  qjzufgwqccixwgfmigru .usiuriu ig.cgdzungzubgu.rwnguirvmt.xw,gzub
jixmzjwgzgxiwrbiu igrugfmigc.qxfmgwf.xnagRg zuu.fgtqfgfmrupgfmzfgrcghi
mzbgd.xigfxqighrwb.dgrugfmiwigxiwji fw,gu.fg.uyngyiwwgibq zfr.ugh.qyb
tiguiibib,gti zqwi,gc.xw..fm,gd.xigh.qybgzyxizbngmzsigtiiugz lqrxib,
tqfgfmigji qurzxngiojiuwig.cgviffruvgzugibq zfr.ugh.qybgrugzgvxizf
dizwqxigszurwmagFm.wig .usiuriu iwghmr mgfmigwfqbiufgxilqrxiwgzf
 zdtxrbvig.xgiywihmixig .wfgmrdg.xgw.dit.bngiywigfiugfrdiwgzwgvxizfgz
wz xrcr ig.cgyrcigzwgfmingh.qybghrfmgjx.jixgdzuzvidiufg.ugt.fmgwrbiwa
Fm.wigfmruvwgc.xghmr mgfmigd.wfgd.uingrwgbidzubibgzxiguisixgfmigfmruvw
hmr mgfmigwfqbiufgd.wfghzufwagFqrfr.u,gc.xgruwfzu i,grwgzugrdj.xfzuf
rfidgrugfmigfixdgtryy,ghmryigc.xgfmigczxgd.xigszyqztyigibq zfr.ughmr m
migvifwgtngzww. rzfruvghrfmgfmigd.wfg qyfrszfibg.cgmrwg .ufidj.xzxriw
u.g mzxvigrwgdzbiagFmigd.big.cgc.qubruvgzg .yyivigrw,g .dd.uyn,gf.gvif
qjgzgwqtw xrjfr.ug.cgb.yyzxwgzubg iufw,gzubgfmiugc.yy.hruvgtyrubyngfmi
jxru rjyiwg.cgzgbrsrwr.ug.cgyzt.xgf.grfwgiofxidi,gzgjxru rjyighmr m
wm.qybguisixgtigc.yy.hibgtqfghrfmg rx qdwji fr.u,—f.g zyygrugz
 .ufxz f.xghm.gdzpiwgfmrwgzgwqtki fg.cgwji qyzfr.u,gzubgmigidjy.nw
Rxrwmdiug.xg.fmixg.jixzfrsiwgz fqzyyngf.gyzngfmigc.qubzfr.uw,ghmryigfmi
wfqbiufwgfmzfgzxigf.gtigzxigwzrbgf.gtigcrffruvgfmidwiysiwgc.xgrf;gzub
c.xgfmiwig.sixwrvmfwgwq  iwwrsigviuixzfr.uwgmzsigf.gjznagRgfmrupgfmzf
rfgh.qybgtig_tiffixgfmzugfmrw_,gc.xgfmigwfqbiufw,g.xgfm.wighm.gbiwrxi
f.gtigtiuicrfibgtngrf,gisiugf.gyzngfmigc.qubzfr.ugfmidwiysiwagFmi
wfqbiufghm.gwi qxiwgmrwg .sifibgyirwqxigzubgxifrxidiufgtn
wnwfidzfr zyyngwmrxpruvgzungyzt.xgui iwwzxngf.gdzug.tfzruwgtqfgzu
rvu.tyigzubgqujx.crfztyigyirwqxi,gbicxzqbruvgmrdwiycg.cgfmigiojixriu i
hmr mgzy.uig zugdzpigyirwqxigcxqrfcqyag“Tqf,”gwznwg.ui,g“n.qgb.gu.f
dizugfmzfgfmigwfqbiufwgwm.qybgv.gf.gh.xpghrfmgfmirxgmzubwgruwfizbg.c
fmirxgmizbw?”gRgb.gu.fgdizugfmzfgioz fyn,gtqfgRgdizugw.difmruvghmr mgmi
drvmfgfmrupgzgv..bgbizygyrpigfmzf;gRgdizugfmzfgfmingwm.qybgu.fg_jyzn_
yrci,g.xg_wfqbn_grfgdixiyn,ghmryigfmig .ddqurfngwqjj.xfwgfmidgzfgfmrw
iojiuwrsigvzdi,gtqfgizxuiwfyng_yrsi_grfgcx.dgtivruuruvgf.giubagM.h
 .qybgn.qfmwgtiffixgyizxugf.gyrsigfmzugtngzfg.u igfxnruvgfmigiojixrdiuf
.cgyrsruv?gDifmrupwgfmrwgh.qybgioix rwigfmirxgdrubwgzwgdq mgzw
dzfmidzfr wagRcgRghrwmibgzgt.ngf.gpu.hgw.difmruvgzt.qfgfmigzxfwgzub
w riu iw,gc.xgruwfzu i,gRgh.qybgu.fgjqxwqigfmig .dd.ug .qxwi,ghmr mgrw
dixiyngf.gwiubgmrdgruf.gfmiguirvmt.xm..bg.cgw.digjx.ciww.x,ghmixigzun
fmruvgrwgjx.ciwwibgzubgjxz frwibgtqfgfmigzxfg.cgyrci;—f.gwqxsingfmi
h.xybgfmx.qvmgzgfiyiw .jig.xgzgdr x.w .ji,gzubguisixghrfmgmrwguzfqxzy
ini;gf.gwfqbng midrwfxn,gzubgu.fgyizxugm.hgmrwgtxizbgrwgdzbi,g.x
di mzur w,gzubgu.fgyizxugm.hgrfgrwgizxuib;gf.gbrw .sixguihgwzfiyyrfiw
f.gUijfqui,gzubgu.fgbifi fgfmigd.fiwgrugmrwginiw,g.xgf.ghmzfgszvzt.ub
migrwgzgwzfiyyrfigmrdwiyc;g.xgf.gtigbis.qxibgtngfmigd.uwfixwgfmzfgwhzxd
zyygzx.qubgmrd,ghmryig .ufidjyzfruvgfmigd.uwfixwgrugzgbx.jg.cgsruivzxa
Hmr mgh.qybgmzsigzbszu ibgfmigd.wfgzfgfmigiubg.cgzgd.ufm,—fmigt.nghm.
mzbgdzbigmrwg.hugkz ppurcigcx.dgfmig.xighmr mgmigmzbgbqvgzubgwdiyfib,
xizbruvgzwgdq mgzwgh.qybgtigui iwwzxngc.xgfmrw,—.xgfmigt.nghm.gmzb
zffiubibgfmigyi fqxiwg.ugdifzyyqxvngzfgfmigRuwfrfqfigrugfmigdizughmryi,
zubgmzbgxi irsibgzgX.bvixw’gjiupurcigcx.dgmrwgczfmix?gHmr mgh.qybgti
d.wfgyrpiyngf.g qfgmrwgcruvixw?aaagF.gdngzwf.urwmdiufgRghzwgruc.xdibg.u
yizsruvg .yyivigfmzfgRgmzbgwfqbribguzsrvzfr.u!—hmn,grcgRgmzbgfzpiug.ui
fqxugb.hugfmigmzxt.xgRgwm.qybgmzsigpu.hugd.xigzt.qfgrfagIsiugfmig_j..x_
wfqbiufgwfqbriwgzubgrwgfzqvmfg.uyng_j.yrfr zy_gi .u.dn,ghmryigfmzf
i .u.dng.cgyrsruvghmr mgrwgwnu.und.qwghrfmgjmry.w.jmngrwgu.fgisiu
wru ixiyngjx.ciwwibgrug.qxg .yyiviwagFmig .uwilqiu igrw,gfmzfghmryigmi
rwgxizbruvgZbzdgWdrfm,gXr zxb.,gzubgWzn,gmigxquwgmrwgczfmixgrugbitf
rxxifxrisztyna

Zwghrfmg.qxg .yyiviw,gw.ghrfmgzgmqubxibg“d.bixugrdjx.sidiufw”;gfmixigrw
zugryyqwr.ugzt.qfgfmid;gfmixigrwgu.fgzyhznwgzgj.wrfrsigzbszu iagFmi
bisrygv.iwg.ugioz fruvg .dj.qubgrufixiwfgf.gfmigyzwfgc.xgmrwgizxyn
wmzxigzubguqdix.qwgwq  iibruvgrusiwfdiufwgrugfmidag.qxgrusiufr.uwgzxi
h.ufgf.gtigjxiffngf.nw,ghmr mgbrwfxz fg.qxgzffiufr.ugcx.dgwixr.qw
fmruvwagFmingzxigtqfgrdjx.sibgdizuwgf.gzugqurdjx.sibgiub,gzugiubghmr m
rfghzwgzyxizbngtqfgf..gizwngf.gzxxrsigzf;gzwgxzryx.zbwgyizbgf.gT.wf.u
.xgUihgN.xpagHigzxigrugvxizfgmzwfigf.g .uwfxq fgzgdzvuifr gfiyivxzjm
cx.dgDzruigf.gFiozw;gtqfgDzruigzubgFiozw,grfgdzngti,gmzsigu.fmruv
rdj.xfzufgf.g .ddqur zfiagIrfmixgrwgrugwq mgzgjxibr zdiufgzwgfmigdzu
hm.ghzwgizxuiwfgf.gtigrufx.bq ibgf.gzgbrwfruvqrwmibgbizcgh.dzu,gtqf
hmiugmighzwgjxiwiufib,gzubg.uigiubg.cgmixgizxgfxqdjifghzwgjqfgruf.gmrw
mzub,gmzbgu.fmruvgf.gwznagZwgrcgfmigdzrug.tki fghixigf.gfzypgczwfgzub
u.fgf.gfzypgwiuwrtynagHigzxigizvixgf.gfquuiygqubixgfmigZfyzufr gzub
txruvgfmig.ybgh.xybgw.dighiipwguizxixgf.gfmiguih;gtqfgjix mzu igfmi
crxwfguihwgfmzfghryygyizpgfmx.qvmgruf.gfmigtx.zb,gcyzjjruvgZdixr zugizx
hryygtigfmzfgfmigJxru iwwgZbiyzrbigmzwgfmighm..jruvg .qvmagZcfixgzyy,
fmigdzughm.wigm.xwigfx.fwgzgdryigrugzgdruqfigb.iwgu.fg zxxngfmigd.wf
rdj.xfzufgdiwwzviw;gmigrwgu.fgzugiszuviyrwf,gu.xgb.iwgmig .digx.qub
izfruvgy. qwfwgzubghrybgm.uinagRgb.qtfgrcgCynruvg mrybixwgisixg zxxrib
zgji pg.cg .xugf.gdryya

.uigwznwgf.gdi,g“Rgh.ubixgfmzfgn.qgb.gu.fgyzngqjgd.uin;gn.qgy.sigf.
fxzsiy;gn.qgdrvmfgfzpigfmig zxwgzubgv.gf.gCrf mtqxvgf.-bzngzubgwiigfmi
 .qufxna”gTqfgRgzdghrwixgfmzugfmzfagRgmzsigyizxuibgfmzfgfmigwhrcfiwf
fxzsiyyixgrwgmigfmzfgv.iwgzc..fagRgwzngf.gdngcxriub,gWqjj.wighigfxnghm.
hryygvifgfmixigcrxwfagFmigbrwfzu igrwgfmrxfngdryiw;gfmigczxiguruifn
 iufwagFmzfgrwgzyd.wfgzgbzn’wghzviwagRgxididtixghmiughzviwghixigwrofn
 iufwgzgbzngc.xgyzt.xixwg.ugfmrwgsixngx.zbagHiyy,gRgwfzxfgu.hg.ugc..f,
zubgvifgfmixigtic.xigurvmf;gRgmzsigfxzsiyyibgzfgfmzfgxzfigtngfmighiip
f.vifmixagN.qghryygrugfmigdizughmryigmzsigizxuibgn.qxgczxi,gzubgzxxrsi
fmixigw.digfrdigf.-d.xx.h,g.xgj.wwrtyngfmrwgisiuruv,grcgn.qgzxigyq pn
iu.qvmgf.gvifgzgk.tgrugwizw.uagRuwfizbg.cgv.ruvgf.gCrf mtqxv,gn.qghryy
tigh.xpruvgmixigfmigvxizfixgjzxfg.cgfmigbznagZubgw.,grcgfmigxzryx.zb
xiz mibgx.qubgfmigh.xyb,gRgfmrupgfmzfgRgwm.qybgpiijgzmizbg.cgn.q;gzub
zwgc.xgwiiruvgfmig .qufxngzubgviffruvgiojixriu ig.cgfmzfgprub,gRgwm.qyb
mzsigf.g qfgn.qxgz lqzrufzu igzyf.vifmixa

Wq mgrwgfmigqursixwzygyzh,ghmr mgu.gdzug zugisixg.qfhrf,gzubghrfm
xivzxbgf.gfmigxzryx.zbgisiughigdzngwzngrfgrwgzwgtx.zbgzwgrfgrwgy.uvagF.
dzpigzgxzryx.zbgx.qubgfmigh.xybgzszryztyigf.gzyygdzuprubgrwgilqrszyiuf
f.gvxzbruvgfmighm.yigwqxcz ig.cgfmigjyzuifagDiugmzsigzugrubrwfru f
u.fr.ugfmzfgrcgfmingpiijgqjgfmrwgz frsrfng.cgk.rufgwf. pwgzubgwjzbiw
y.uvgiu.qvmgzyyghryygzfgyiuvfmgxrbigw.dihmixi,gruguiofgf.gu.gfrdi,gzub
c.xgu.fmruv;gtqfgfm.qvmgzg x.hbgxqwmiwgf.gfmigbij.f,gzubgfmig .ubq f.x
wm.qfwg“Zyygzt.zxb!”ghmiugfmigwd.pigrwgty.hugzhzngzubgfmigszj.x
 .ubiuwib,grfghryygtigjix irsibgfmzfgzgcihgzxigxrbruv,gtqfgfmigxiwfgzxi
xqug.six,—zubgrfghryygtig zyyib,gzubghryygti,g“Zgdiyzu m.yngz  rbiufa”
U.gb.qtfgfming zugxrbigzfgyzwfghm.gwmzyygmzsigizxuibgfmirxgczxi,gfmzf
rw,grcgfmingwqxsrsigw.gy.uv,gtqfgfminghryygjx.tztyngmzsigy.wfgfmirx
iyzwfr rfngzubgbiwrxigf.gfxzsiygtngfmzfgfrdiagFmrwgwjiubruvg.cgfmigtiwf
jzxfg.cg.ui’wgyrcigizxuruvgd.uingrug.xbixgf.giuk.ngzglqiwfr.uztyi
yrtixfngbqxruvgfmigyizwfgszyqztyigjzxfg.cgrf,gxidrubwgdig.cgfmi
Iuvyrwmdzughm.ghiufgf.gRubrzgf.gdzpigzgc.xfquigcrxwf,grug.xbixgfmzfgmi
drvmfgxifqxugf.gIuvyzubgzubgyrsigfmigyrcig.cgzgj.ifagMigwm.qybgmzsi
v.uigqjgvzxxifgzfg.u iag“Hmzf!”gio yzrdgzgdryyr.ugRxrwmdiugwfzxfruvgqj
cx.dgzyygfmigwmzufriwgrugfmigyzub,g“rwgu.fgfmrwgxzryx.zbghmr mghigmzsi
tqryfgzgv..bgfmruv?”gNiw,gRgzuwhix,g_ .djzxzfrsiyn_gv..b,gfmzfgrw,gn.q
drvmfgmzsigb.uigh.xwi;gtqfgRghrwm,gzwgn.qgzxigtx.fmixwg.cgdrui,gfmzf
n.qg .qybgmzsigwjiufgn.qxgfrdigtiffixgfmzugbrvvruvgrugfmrwgbrxfa



Tic.xigRgcrurwmibgdngm.qwi,ghrwmruvgf.gizxugfiug.xgfhiysigb.yyzxwgtn
w.digm.uiwfgzubgzvxiiztyigdifm.b,grug.xbixgf.gdiifgdngquqwqzygiojiuwiw,
Rgjyzufibgzt.qfgfh.gz xiwgzubgzgmzycg.cgyrvmfgzubgwzubngw.ryguizxgrf
 mricynghrfmgtizuw,gtqfgzyw.gzgwdzyygjzxfghrfmgj.fzf.iw,g .xu,gjizw,
zubgfqxurjwagFmighm.yigy.fg .ufzruwgiyisiugz xiw,gd.wfyngvx.hruvgqjgf.
jruiwgzubgmr p.xriw,gzubghzwgw.ybgfmigjxi ibruvgwizw.ugc.xgirvmf
b.yyzxwgzubgirvmfg iufwgzugz xiag.uigczxdixgwzrbgfmzfgrfghzwg“v..bgc.x
u.fmruvgtqfgf.gxzrwig miijruvgwlqrxxiywg.ua”gRgjqfgu.gdzuqxighmzfisix
.ugfmrwgyzub,gu.fgtiruvgfmig.huix,gtqfgdixiyngzgwlqzffix,gzubgu.f
ioji fruvgf.g qyfrszfigw.gdq mgzvzru,gzubgRgbrbgu.fglqrfigm.igrfgzyy
.u iagRgv.fg.qfgwisixzyg .xbwg.cgwfqdjwgrugjy.qvmruv,ghmr mgwqjjyribgdi
hrfmgcqiygc.xgzgy.uvgfrdi,gzubgyicfgwdzyyg rx yiwg.cgsrxvrugd.qyb,
izwryngbrwfruvqrwmztyigfmx.qvmgfmigwqddixgtngfmigvxizfixgyqoqxrzu ig.c
fmigtizuwgfmixiagFmigbizbgzubgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgqudix mzufztyigh..b
timrubgdngm.qwi,gzubgfmigbxrcfh..bgcx.dgfmigj.ub,gmzsigwqjjyribgfmi
xidzrubixg.cgdngcqiyagRghzwg.tyrvibgf.gmrxigzgfizdgzubgzgdzugc.xgfmi
jy.qvmruv,gfm.qvmgRgmiybgfmigjy.qvmgdnwiycagDngczxdg.qfv.iwgc.xgfmi
crxwfgwizw.ughixi,gc.xgrdjyidiufw,gwiib,gh.xp,g& a,g$14a72½agFmigwiib
 .xughzwgvrsiugdiagFmrwguisixg .wfwgzunfmruvgf.gwjizpg.c,gquyiwwgn.q
jyzufgd.xigfmzugiu.qvmagRgv.fgfhiysigtqwmiywg.cgtizuw,gzubgirvmfiiu
tqwmiywg.cgj.fzf.iw,gtiwrbigw.digjizwgzubgwhiifg .xuagFmigniyy.hg .xu
zubgfqxurjwghixigf..gyzfigf.g .digf.gzungfmruvagDnghm.yigru .digcx.d
fmigczxdghzw

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg$g23a44
ggggggBibq fruvgfmig.qfv.iw,aaaaaaaaaaagg14a72½
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg————
ggggggFmixigzxigyicf,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$gg8a71½,

tiwrbigjx.bq ig .uwqdibgzubg.ugmzubgzfgfmigfrdigfmrwgiwfrdzfighzwgdzbi
.cgfmigszyqig.cg$4a50,—fmigzd.qufg.ugmzubgdq mgd.xigfmzugtzyzu ruvgz
yrffyigvxzwwghmr mgRgbrbgu.fgxzrwiagZyygfmruvwg .uwrbixib,gfmzfgrw,
 .uwrbixruvgfmigrdj.xfzu ig.cgzgdzu’wgw.qygzubg.cgf.-bzn,
u.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmigwm.xfgfrdig.  qjribgtngdngiojixrdiuf,guzn,gjzxfyn
isiugti zqwig.cgrfwgfxzuwriufg mzxz fix,gRgtiyrisigfmzfgfmzfghzwgb.ruv
tiffixgfmzugzungczxdixgrug .u .xbgbrbgfmzfgnizxa

FmiguiofgnizxgRgbrbgtiffixgwfryy,gc.xgRgwjzbibgqjgzyygfmigyzubghmr mgR
xilqrxib,gzt.qfgzgfmrxbg.cgzugz xi,gzubgRgyizxuibgcx.dgfmigiojixriu i
.cgt.fmgnizxw,gu.fgtiruvgrugfmigyizwfgzhibgtngdzung iyitxzfibgh.xpwg.u
mqwtzubxn,gZxfmqxgN.quvgzd.uvgfmigxiwf,gfmzfgrcg.uigh.qybgyrsigwrdjyn
zubgizfg.uyngfmig x.jghmr mgmigxzrwib,gzubgxzrwigu.gd.xigfmzugmigzfi,
zubgu.fgio mzuvigrfgc.xgzugruwqccr riufglqzufrfng.cgd.xigyqoqxr.qwgzub
iojiuwrsigfmruvw,gmigh.qybguiibgf.g qyfrszfig.uyngzgcihgx.bwg.cgvx.qub,
zubgfmzfgrfgh.qybgtig mizjixgf.gwjzbigqjgfmzfgfmzugf.gqwig.oiugf.
jy.qvmgrf,gzubgf.gwiyi fgzgcxiwmgwj.fgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdigfmzugf.gdzuqxi
fmig.yb,gzubgmig .qybgb.gzyygmrwgui iwwzxngczxdgh.xpgzwgrfghixighrfm
mrwgyicfgmzubgzfg.bbgm.qxwgrugfmigwqddix;gzubgfmqwgmigh.qybgu.fgtigfrib
f.gzug.o,g.xgm.xwi,g.xg .h,g.xgjrv,gzwgzfgjxiwiufagRgbiwrxigf.gwjizp
rdjzxfrzyyng.ugfmrwgj.ruf,gzubgzwg.uigu.fgrufixiwfibgrugfmigwq  iwwg.x
czryqxig.cgfmigjxiwiufgi .u.dr zygzubgw. rzygzxxzuvidiufwagRghzwgd.xi
rubijiubiufgfmzugzungczxdixgrug .u .xb,gc.xgRghzwgu.fgzu m.xibgf.gz
m.qwig.xgczxd,gtqfg .qybgc.yy.hgfmigtiufg.cgdngviurqw,ghmr mgrwgzgsixn
 x..pibg.ui,gisixngd.diufagTiwrbigtiruvgtiffixg.ccgfmzugfmingzyxizbn,
rcgdngm.qwigmzbgtiiugtqxuibg.xgdng x.jwgmzbgczryib,gRgwm.qybgmzsigtiiu
uizxyngzwghiyyg.ccgzwgtic.xia

Rgzdgh.ufgf.gfmrupgfmzfgdiugzxigu.fgw.gdq mgfmigpiijixwg.cgmixbwgzw
mixbwgzxigfmigpiijixwg.cgdiu,gfmigc.xdixgzxigw.gdq mgfmigcxiixagDiugzub
.oiugio mzuvigh.xp;gtqfgrcghig .uwrbixgui iwwzxngh.xpg.uyn,gfmig.oiu
hryygtigwiiugf.gmzsigvxizfyngfmigzbszufzvi,gfmirxgczxdgrwgw.gdq mgfmi
yzxvixagDzugb.iwgw.dig.cgmrwgjzxfg.cgfmigio mzuvigh.xpgrugmrwgwroghiipw
.cgmznruv,gzubgrfgrwgu.gt.n’wgjyznag ixfzruyngu.guzfr.ugfmzfgyrsib
wrdjyngrugzyygxiwji fw,gfmzfgrw,gu.guzfr.ug.cgjmry.w.jmixw,gh.qyb
 .ddrfgw.gvxizfgzgtyqubixgzwgf.gqwigfmigyzt.xg.cgzurdzywagFxqi,gfmixi
uisixghzwgzubgrwgu.fgyrpiyngw..ugf.gtigzguzfr.ug.cgjmry.w.jmixw,gu.xgzd
Rg ixfzrugrfgrwgbiwrxztyigfmzfgfmixigwm.qybgtiagM.hisix,g_R_gwm.qyb
uisixgmzsigtx.piugzgm.xwig.xgtqyygzubgfzpiugmrdgf.gt.zxbgc.xgzungh.xp
migdrvmfgb.gc.xgdi,gc.xgcizxgRgwm.qybgti .digzgm.xwi-dzug.xgzgmixbw-dzu
dixiyn;gzubgrcgw. rifngwiidwgf.gtigfmigvzruixgtngw.gb.ruv,gzxighi
 ixfzrugfmzfghmzfgrwg.uigdzu’wgvzrugrwgu.fgzu.fmix’wgy.ww,gzubgfmzfgfmi
wfztyi-t.ngmzwgilqzyg zqwighrfmgmrwgdzwfixgf.gtigwzfrwcrib?gVxzufib
fmzfgw.digjqtyr gh.xpwgh.qybgu.fgmzsigtiiug .uwfxq fibghrfm.qfgfmrw
zrb,gzubgyifgdzugwmzxigfmigvy.xng.cgwq mghrfmgfmig.ogzubgm.xwi;gb.iwgrf
c.yy.hgfmzfgmig .qybgu.fgmzsigz  .djyrwmibgh.xpwgnifgd.xigh.xfmng.c
mrdwiycgrugfmzfg zwi?gHmiugdiugtivrugf.gb.,gu.fgdixiyngquui iwwzxng.x
zxfrwfr ,gtqfgyqoqxr.qwgzubgrbyigh.xp,ghrfmgfmirxgzwwrwfzu i,grfgrw
ruisrfztyigfmzfgzgcihgb.gzyygfmigio mzuvigh.xpghrfmgfmig.oiu,g.x,gru
.fmixgh.xbw,gti .digfmigwyzsiwg.cgfmigwfx.uviwfagDzugfmqwgu.fg.uyn
h.xpwgc.xgfmigzurdzyghrfmrugmrd,gtqf,gc.xgzgwndt.yg.cgfmrw,gmigh.xpw
c.xgfmigzurdzyghrfm.qfgmrdagFm.qvmghigmzsigdzungwqtwfzufrzygm.qwiwg.c
txr pg.xgwf.ui,gfmigjx.wjixrfng.cgfmigczxdixgrwgwfryygdizwqxibgtngfmi
bivxiigf.ghmr mgfmigtzxug.sixwmzb.hwgfmigm.qwiagFmrwgf.hugrwgwzrbgf.
mzsigfmigyzxviwfgm.qwiwgc.xg.oiu,g .hw,gzubgm.xwiwgmixizt.qfw,gzubgrf
rwgu.fgtimrubmzubgrugrfwgjqtyr gtqrybruvw;gtqfgfmixigzxigsixngcihgmzyyw
c.xgcxiigh.xwmrjg.xgcxiigwjii mgrugfmrwg .qufnagRfgwm.qybgu.fgtigtn
fmirxgzx mrfi fqxi,gtqfghmngu.fgisiugtngfmirxgj.hixg.cgztwfxz f
fm.qvmf,gfmzfguzfr.uwgwm.qybgwiipgf.g .ddid.xzfigfmidwiysiw?gM.hgdq m
d.xigzbdrxztyigfmigTmzvszf-Viifzgfmzugzyygfmigxqruwg.cgfmigIzwf!gF.hixw
zubgfidjyiwgzxigfmigyqoqxng.cgjxru iwagZgwrdjyigzubgrubijiubiufgdrub
b.iwgu.fgf.rygzfgfmigtrbbruvg.cgzungjxru iagViurqwgrwgu.fgzgxifzruixgf.
zungidjix.x,gu.xgrwgrfwgdzfixrzygwrysix,g.xgv.yb,g.xgdzxtyi,gio ijfgf.
zgfxrcyruvgiofiufagF.ghmzfgiub,gjxzn,grwgw.gdq mgwf.uigmzddixib?gRu
Zx zbrz,ghmiugRghzwgfmixi,gRgbrbgu.fgwiigzungmzddixruvgwf.uiagUzfr.uw
zxigj.wwiwwibghrfmgzugruwzuigzdtrfr.ugf.gjixjifqzfigfmigdid.xng.c
fmidwiysiwgtngfmigzd.qufg.cgmzddixibgwf.uigfmingyizsiagHmzfgrcgilqzy
jzruwghixigfzpiugf.gwd..fmgzubgj.yrwmgfmirxgdzuuixw?g.uigjri ig.cgv..b
wiuwigh.qybgtigd.xigdid.xztyigfmzugzgd.uqdiufgzwgmrvmgzwgfmigd..uagR
y.sigtiffixgf.gwiigwf.uiwgrugjyz iagFmigvxzubiqxg.cgFmitiwghzwgzgsqyvzx
vxzubiqxagD.xigwiuwrtyigrwgzgx.bg.cgwf.uighzyygfmzfgt.qubwgzugm.uiwf
dzu’wgcriybgfmzugzgmqubxib-vzfibgFmitiwgfmzfgmzwghzubixibgczxfmixgcx.d
fmigfxqigiubg.cgyrciagFmigxiyrvr.ugzubg rsryrezfr.ughmr mgzxigtzxtzxr 
zubgmizfmiurwmgtqrybgwjyiubrbgfidjyiw;gtqfghmzfgn.qgdrvmfg zyy
 mxrwfrzurfngb.iwgu.fagD.wfg.cgfmigwf.uigzguzfr.ugmzddixwgv.iwgf.hzxb
rfwgf.dtg.uynagRfgtqxriwgrfwiycgzyrsiagZwgc.xgfmigJnxzdrbw,gfmixigrw
u.fmruvgf.gh.ubixgzfgrugfmidgw.gdq mgzwgfmigcz fgfmzfgw.gdzungdiug .qyb
tigc.qubgbivxzbibgiu.qvmgf.gwjiubgfmirxgyrsiwg .uwfxq fruvgzgf.dtgc.x
w.digzdtrfr.qwgt..tn,ghm.dgrfgh.qybgmzsigtiiughrwixgzubgdzuyrixgf.gmzsi
bx.huibgrugfmigUryi,gzubgfmiugvrsiugmrwgt.bngf.gfmigb.vwagRgdrvmf
j.wwrtyngrusiufgw.digio qwigc.xgfmidgzubgmrd,gtqfgRgmzsigu.gfrdigc.x
rfagZwgc.xgfmigxiyrvr.ugzubgy.sig.cgzxfg.cgfmigtqrybixw,grfgrwgdq mgfmi
wzdigzyygfmigh.xybg.six,ghmifmixgfmigtqrybruvgtigzugIvnjfrzugfidjyig.x
fmigQurfibgWfzfiwgTzupagRfg .wfwgd.xigfmzugrfg .diwgf.agFmigdzruwjxruv
rwgszurfn,gzwwrwfibgtngfmigy.sig.cgvzxyr gzubgtxizbgzubgtqffixagDxa
Tzy .d,gzgjx.drwruvgn.quvgzx mrfi f,gbiwrvuwgrfg.ugfmigtz pg.cgmrw
Srfxqsrqw,ghrfmgmzxbgjiu rygzubgxqyix,gzubgfmigk.tgrwgyifg.qfgf.gB.tw.u
&gW.uw,gwf.ui qffixwagHmiugfmigfmrxfng iufqxriwgtivrugf.gy..pgb.hug.u
rf,gdzuprubgtivrugf.gy..pgqjgzfgrfagZwgc.xgn.qxgmrvmgf.hixwgzub
d.uqdiufw,gfmixighzwgzg xzengciyy.hg.u igrugfmrwgf.hughm.gqubixf..pgf.
brvgfmx.qvmgf.g mruz,gzubgmigv.fgw.gczxgfmzf,gzwgmigwzrb,gmigmizxbgfmi
 mruiwigj.fwgzubgpiffyiwgxzffyi;gtqfgRgfmrupgfmzfgRgwmzyygu.fgv.g.qfg.c
dnghzngf.gzbdrxigfmigm.yighmr mgmigdzbiagDzungzxig .u ixuibgzt.qfgfmi
d.uqdiufwg.cgfmigHiwfgzubgfmigIzwf,—f.gpu.hghm.gtqryfgfmidagC.xgdn
jzxf,gRgwm.qybgyrpigf.gpu.hghm.grugfm.wigbznwgbrbgu.fgtqrybgfmid,—hm.
hixigzt.sigwq mgfxrcyruvagTqfgf.gjx. iibghrfmgdngwfzfrwfr wa

Tngwqxsinruv,g zxjiufxn,gzubgbzn-yzt.xg.cgszxr.qwg.fmixgprubwgrugfmi
sryyzvigrugfmigdizughmryi,gc.xgRgmzsigzwgdzungfxzbiwgzwgcruvixw,gRgmzb
izxuibg$13a34agFmigiojiuwig.cgc..bgc.xgirvmfgd.ufmw,guzdiyn,gcx.dgKqyn
4fmgf.gDzx mg1wf,gfmigfrdighmiugfmiwigiwfrdzfiwghixigdzbi,gfm.qvmgR
yrsibgfmixigd.xigfmzugfh.gnizxw,—u.fg .qufruvgj.fzf.iw,gzgyrffyigvxiiu
 .xu,gzubgw.digjizw,ghmr mgRgmzbgxzrwib,gu.xg .uwrbixruvgfmigszyqig.c
hmzfghzwg.ugmzubgzfgfmigyzwfgbzfi,ghzw


ggggXr i,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$g1a73½
ggggD.yzwwiw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg1a73ggggg mizjiwfgc.xdg.cgfmi
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggwz  mzxruia
ggggXnigdizy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg1a04¾
ggggRubrzugdizy,aaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a99¾ggggg mizjixgfmzugxnia
ggggJ.xp,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a22

ggggZyygiojixrdiufwghmr mgczryib:
ggggCy.qx,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a88gg .wfwgd.xigfmzugRubrzugdizy,
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggt.fmgd.uingzubgfx.qtyia
ggggWqvzx,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a80
ggggYzxb,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a65
ggggZjjyiw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a25
ggggBxribgzjjyi,aaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a22
ggggWhiifgj.fzf.iw,aaaaaaaaaagg0a10
gggg.uigjqdjpru,aaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a06
gggg.uighzfixdiy.u,aaaaaaaaaagg0a02
ggggWzyf,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a03

Niw,gRgbrbgizfg$8a74,gzyygf.yb;gtqfgRgwm.qybgu.fgfmqwgqutyqwmruvyn
jqtyrwmgdngvqryf,grcgRgbrbgu.fgpu.hgfmzfgd.wfg.cgdngxizbixwghixi
ilqzyyngvqryfnghrfmgdnwiyc,gzubgfmzfgfmirxgbiibwgh.qybgy..pgu.gtiffix
rugjxrufagFmiguiofgnizxgRgw.difrdiwg zqvmfgzgdiwwg.cgcrwmgc.xgdn
bruuix,gzubg.u igRghiufgw.gczxgzwgf.gwyzqvmfixgzgh..b mq pghmr m
xzszvibgdngtizu-criyb,—icci fgmrwgfxzuwdrvxzfr.u,gzwgzgFzxfzxgh.qyb
wzn,—zubgbis.qxgmrd,gjzxfyngc.xgiojixrdiuf’wgwzpi;gtqfgfm.qvmgrf
zcc.xbibgdigzgd.diufzxngiuk.ndiuf,gu.fhrfmwfzubruvgzgdqwpngcyzs.x,gR
wzhgfmzfgfmigy.uviwfgqwigh.qybgu.fgdzpigfmzfgzgv..bgjxz fr i,gm.hisix
rfgdrvmfgwiidgf.gmzsign.qxgh..b mq pwgxizbngbxiwwibgtngfmigsryyzvi
tqf mixa

 y.fmruvgzubgw.digru rbiufzygiojiuwiwghrfmrugfmigwzdigbzfiw,gfm.qvm
yrffyig zugtigrucixxibgcx.dgfmrwgrfid,gzd.qufibgf.

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg$8a40¾
gggg.rygzubgw.digm.qwim.ybgqfiuwryw,aaaaaaagg2a00

W.gfmzfgzyygfmigji qurzxng.qfv.iw,gio ijfruvgc.xghzwmruvgzubgdiubruv,
hmr mgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfghixigb.uig.qfg.cgfmigm.qwi,gzubgfmirxgtryyw
mzsigu.fgnifgtiiugxi irsib,—zubgfmiwigzxigzyygzubgd.xigfmzugzyygfmi
hznwgtnghmr mgd.uingui iwwzxryngv.iwg.qfgrugfmrwgjzxfg.cgfmi
h.xyb,—hixi

ggggM.qwi,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$g28a12½
ggggCzxdg.uignizx,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag14a72½
ggggC..bgirvmfgd.ufmw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg8a74
gggg y.fmruv,gif a,girvmfgd.ufmw,aaaaaaaaaaagg8a40¾
gggg.ry,g& a,girvmfgd.ufmw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg2a00
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg——————
ggggggggRugzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$g61a99¾

Rgzbbxiwwgdnwiycgu.hgf.gfm.wig.cgdngxizbixwghm.gmzsigzgyrsruvgf.gvifa
Zubgf.gdiifgfmrwgRgmzsigc.xgczxdgjx.bq igw.yb

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg$23a44
ggggIzxuibgtngbzn-yzt.x,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg13a34
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg——————
ggggggggRugzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$36a78,

hmr mgwqtfxz fibgcx.dgfmigwqdg.cgfmig.qfv.iwgyizsiwgzgtzyzu ig.c
$25a21¾g.ugfmig.uigwrbi,—fmrwgtiruvgsixnguizxyngfmigdizuwghrfmghmr mgR
wfzxfib,gzubgfmigdizwqxig.cgiojiuwiwgf.gtigru qxxib,—zubg.ugfmig.fmix,
tiwrbigfmigyirwqxigzubgrubijiubiu igzubgmizyfmgfmqwgwi qxib,gz
 .dc.xfztyigm.qwigc.xgdigzwgy.uvgzwgRg m..wigf.g.  qjngrfa

Fmiwigwfzfrwfr w,gm.hisixgz  rbiufzygzubgfmixic.xigquruwfxq frsigfmin
dzngzjjizx,gzwgfmingmzsigzg ixfzrug .djyifiuiww,gmzsigzg ixfzrugszyqi
zyw.agU.fmruvghzwgvrsiugdig.cghmr mgRgmzsigu.fgxiubixibgw.digz  .qufa
Rfgzjjizxwgcx.dgfmigzt.sigiwfrdzfi,gfmzfgdngc..bgzy.uig .wfgdigrugd.uin
zt.qfgfhiufn-wisiug iufwgzghiipagRfghzw,gc.xguizxyngfh.gnizxwgzcfix
fmrw,gxnigzubgRubrzugdizyghrfm.qfgnizwf,gj.fzf.iw,gxr i,gzgsixngyrffyi
wzyfgj.xp,gd.yzwwiw,gzubgwzyf,gzubgdngbxrupghzfixagRfghzwgcrfgfmzfgR
wm.qybgyrsig.ugxr i,gdzruyn,ghm.gy.sibgw.ghiyygfmigjmry.w.jmng.cgRubrza
F.gdiifgfmig.tki fr.uwg.cgw.digrusifixzfig zsryyixw,gRgdzngzwghiyy
wfzfi,gfmzfgrcgRgbruibg.qfg.  zwr.uzyyn,gzwgRgzyhznwgmzbgb.ui,gzubgR
fxqwfgwmzyygmzsig.jj.xfqurfriwgf.gb.gzvzru,grfghzwgcxilqiufyngf.gfmi
bifxrdiufg.cgdngb.diwfr gzxxzuvidiufwagTqfgfmigbruruvg.qf,gtiruv,gzwgR
mzsigwfzfib,gzg .uwfzufgiyidiuf,gb.iwgu.fgrugfmigyizwfgzcci fgz
 .djzxzfrsigwfzfidiufgyrpigfmrwa

Rgyizxuibgcx.dgdngfh.gnizxw’giojixriu igfmzfgrfgh.qybg .wfgru xibrtyn
yrffyigfx.qtyigf.g.tfzrug.ui’wgui iwwzxngc..b,gisiugrugfmrwgyzfrfqbi;
fmzfgzgdzugdzngqwigzwgwrdjyigzgbrifgzwgfmigzurdzyw,gzubgnifgxifzru
mizyfmgzubgwfxiuvfmagRgmzsigdzbigzgwzfrwcz f.xngbruuix,gwzfrwcz f.xng.u
wisixzygz  .qufw,gwrdjyng.ccgzgbrwmg.cgjqxwyzuig(_J.xfqyz zg.yixz iz_)
hmr mgRgvzfmixibgrugdng .xucriyb,gt.ryibgzubgwzyfibagRgvrsigfmigYzfru
.ugz  .qufg.cgfmigwzs.xruiwwg.cgfmigfxrsrzyguzdiagZubgjxznghmzfgd.xi
 zugzgxizw.uztyigdzugbiwrxi,grugjiz icqygfrdiw,grug.xbruzxngu..uw,gfmzu
zgwqccr riufguqdtixg.cgizxwg.cgvxiiugwhiif- .xugt.ryib,ghrfmgfmi
zbbrfr.ug.cgwzyf?gIsiugfmigyrffyigszxrifnghmr mgRgqwibghzwgzgnriybruv
f.gfmigbidzubwg.cgzjjifrfi,gzubgu.fg.cgmizyfmagNifgdiugmzsig .digf.
wq mgzgjzwwgfmzfgfmingcxilqiufyngwfzxsi,gu.fgc.xghzufg.cgui iwwzxriw,
tqfgc.xghzufg.cgyqoqxriw;gzubgRgpu.hgzgv..bgh.dzughm.gfmrupwgfmzfgmix
w.ugy.wfgmrwgyrcigti zqwigmigf..pgf.gbxrupruvghzfixg.uyna

Fmigxizbixghryygjix irsigfmzfgRgzdgfxizfruvgfmigwqtki fgxzfmixgcx.dgzu
i .u.dr gfmzugzgbrififr gj.rufg.cgsrih,gzubgmighryygu.fgsiufqxigf.gjqf
dngztwfidr.qwuiwwgf.gfmigfiwfgquyiwwgmigmzwgzghiyy-wf. pibgyzxbixa

TxizbgRgzfgcrxwfgdzbig.cgjqxigRubrzugdizygzubgwzyf,gviuqruigm.i- zpiw,
hmr mgRgtzpibgtic.xigdngcrxig.qfg.cgb..xwg.ugzgwmruvyig.xgfmigiubg.cgz
wfr pg.cgfrdtixgwzhibg.ccgrugtqrybruvgdngm.qwi;gtqfgrfghzwgh.ufgf.gvif
wd.pibgzubgf.gmzsigzgjrungcyzs.xagRgfxribgcy.qxgzyw.;gtqfgmzsigzfgyzwf
c.qubgzgdrofqxig.cgxnigzubgRubrzugdizygd.wfg .usiuriufgzubgzvxiiztyia
Rug .ybghizfmixgrfghzwgu.gyrffyigzdqwidiufgf.gtzpigwisixzygwdzyygy.zsiw
.cgfmrwgrugwq  iwwr.u,gfiubruvgzubgfqxuruvgfmidgzwg zxicqyyngzwgzu
Ivnjfrzugmrwgmzf mruvgivvwagFminghixigzgxizyg ixizygcxqrfghmr mgR
xrjiuib,gzubgfmingmzbgf.gdngwiuwiwgzgcxzvxzu igyrpigfmzfg.cg.fmixgu.tyi
cxqrfw,ghmr mgRgpijfgrugzwgy.uvgzwgj.wwrtyigtnghxzjjruvgfmidgrug y.fmwa
Rgdzbigzgwfqbng.cgfmigzu riufgzubgrubrwjiuwztyigzxfg.cgtxizb-dzpruv,
 .uwqyfruvgwq mgzqfm.xrfriwgzwg.ccixib,gv.ruvgtz pgf.gfmigjxrdrfrsi
bznwgzubgcrxwfgrusiufr.ug.cgfmigquyizsiuibgprub,ghmiugcx.dgfmighrybuiww
.cguqfwgzubgdizfwgdiugcrxwfgxiz mibgfmigdrybuiwwgzubgxicruidiufg.cgfmrw
brif,gzubgfxzsiyyruvgvxzbqzyyngb.hugrugdngwfqbriwgfmx.qvmgfmzf
z  rbiufzygw.qxruvg.cgfmigb.qvmghmr m,grfgrwgwqjj.wib,gfzqvmfgfmi
yizsiuruvgjx. iww,gzubgfmx.qvmgfmigszxr.qwgcixdiufzfr.uwgfmixizcfix,
fryygRg zdigf.g“v..b,gwhiif,ghm.yiw.digtxizb,”gfmigwfzccg.cgyrcia
Yizsiu,ghmr mgw.digbiidgfmigw.qyg.cgtxizb,gfmig_wjrxrfqw_ghmr mgcryyw
rfwg iyyqyzxgfrwwqi,ghmr mgrwgxiyrvr.qwyngjxiwixsibgyrpigfmigsiwfzy
crxi,—w.digjxi r.qwgt.ffyi-cqyy,gRgwqjj.wi,gcrxwfgtx.qvmfg.sixgrugfmi
Dzncy.hix,gbrbgfmigtqwruiwwgc.xgZdixr z,gzubgrfwgrucyqiu igrwgwfryy
xrwruv,gwhiyyruv,gwjxizbruv,grug ixizyrzugtryy.hwg.sixgfmigyzub,—fmrw
wiibgRgxivqyzxyngzubgczrfmcqyyngjx. qxibgcx.dgfmigsryyzvi,gfryygzf
yiuvfmg.uigd.xuruvgRgc.xv.fgfmigxqyiw,gzubgw zybibgdngnizwf;gtnghmr m
z  rbiufgRgbrw .sixibgfmzfgisiugfmrwghzwgu.fgrubrwjiuwztyi,—c.xgdn
brw .sixriwghixigu.fgtngfmigwnufmifr gtqfgzuzynfr gjx. iww,—zubgRgmzsi
vyzbyng.drffibgrfgwru i,gfm.qvmgd.wfgm.qwihrsiwgizxuiwfyngzwwqxibgdi
fmzfgwzcigzubghm.yiw.digtxizbghrfm.qfgnizwfgdrvmfgu.fgti,gzubgiybixyn
ji.jyigjx.jmiwribgzgwjiibngbi zng.cgfmigsrfzygc.x iwagNifgRgcrubgrfgu.f
f.gtigzugiwwiufrzygruvxibriuf,gzubgzcfixgv.ruvghrfm.qfgrfgc.xgzgnizxgzd
wfryygrugfmigyzubg.cgfmigyrsruv;gzubgRgzdgvyzbgf.giw zjigfmi
fxrsrzyuiwwg.cg zxxnruvgzgt.ffyi-cqyygrugdngj. pif,ghmr mgh.qyb
w.difrdiwgj.jgzubgbrw mzxvigrfwg .ufiufwgf.gdngbrw .dcrfqxiagRfgrw
wrdjyixgzubgd.xigxiwji fztyigf.g.drfgrfagDzugrwgzugzurdzyghm.gd.xigfmzu
zung.fmixg zugzbzjfgmrdwiycgf.gzyyg yrdzfiwgzubg rx qdwfzu iwagUirfmix
brbgRgjqfgzungwzygw.bz,g.xg.fmixgz rbg.xgzypzyr,gruf.gdngtxizbagRf
h.qybgwiidgfmzfgRgdzbigrfgz  .xbruvgf.gfmigxi rjighmr mgDzx qwgJ.x rqw
 zf.gvzsigzt.qfgfh.g iufqxriwgtic.xig mxrwfag“Jzuidgbijwfr rqdgwr 
cz rf.agDzuqwgd.xfzxrqdlqigtiuigyzszf.agCzxruzdgrugd.xfzxrqdgrubrf.,
zlqægjzqyzfrdgzbbrf.,gwqtrvrf.lqigjqy mxiagQtrgtiuigwqtivixrw,
bicruvrf.,g .lqrf.lqigwqtgfiwfqa”gHmr mgRgfzpigf.gdizu—“Dzpigpuizbib
txizbgfmqwagHzwmgn.qxgmzubwgzubgfx.qvmghiyyagJqfgfmigdizygruf.gfmi
fx.qvm,gzbbghzfixgvxzbqzyyn,gzubgpuizbgrfgfm.x.qvmynagHmiugn.qgmzsi
puizbibgrfghiyy,gd.qybgrf,gzubgtzpigrfgqubixgzg .six,”gfmzfgrw,grugz
tzpruv-piffyiagU.fgzgh.xbgzt.qfgyizsiuagTqfgRgbrbgu.fgzyhznwgqwigfmrw
wfzccg.cgyrciagZfg.uigfrdi,g.hruvgf.gfmigidjfruiwwg.cgdngjqxwi,gRgwzh
u.uig.cgrfgc.xgd.xigfmzugzgd.ufma

IsixngUihgIuvyzubixgdrvmfgizwryngxzrwigzyygmrwg.hugtxizbwfqccwgrugfmrw
yzubg.cgxnigzubgRubrzug .xu,gzubgu.fgbijiubg.ugbrwfzufgzubgcyq fqzfruv
dzxpifwgc.xgfmidagNifgw.gczxgzxighigcx.dgwrdjyr rfngzubgrubijiubiu i
fmzf,grug .u .xb,gcxiwmgzubgwhiifgdizygrwgxzxiyngw.ybgrugfmigwm.jw,gzub
m.drungzubg .xugrugzgwfryyg .zxwixgc.xdgzxigmzxbyngqwibgtngzunagC.xgfmi
d.wfgjzxfgfmigczxdixgvrsiwgf.gmrwg zffyigzubgm.vwgfmigvxzrug.cgmrwg.hu
jx.bq ruv,gzubgtqnwgcy.qx,ghmr mgrwgzfgyizwfgu.gd.xighm.yiw.di,gzfgz
vxizfixg .wf,gzfgfmigwf.xiagRgwzhgfmzfgRg .qybgizwryngxzrwigdngtqwmiy
.xgfh.g.cgxnigzubgRubrzug .xu,gc.xgfmigc.xdixghryygvx.hg.ugfmigj..xiwf
yzub,gzubgfmigyzffixgb.iwgu.fgxilqrxigfmigtiwf,gzubgvxrubgfmidgrugz
mzub-dryy,gzubgw.gb.ghrfm.qfgxr igzubgj.xp;gzubgrcgRgdqwfgmzsigw.di
 .u iufxzfibgwhiif,gRgc.qubgtngiojixrdiufgfmzfgRg .qybgdzpigzgsixngv..b
d.yzwwiwgirfmixg.cgjqdjpruwg.xgtiifw,gzubgRgpuihgfmzfgRguiibibg.uyngf.
wifg.qfgzgcihgdzjyiwgf.g.tfzrugrfgd.xigizwryngwfryy,gzubghmryigfmiwi
hixigvx.hruvgRg .qybgqwigszxr.qwgwqtwfrfqfiwgtiwrbigfm.wighmr mgRgmzsi
uzdibag“C.x,”gzwgfmigC.xiczfmixwgwzuv,—

ggggg“hig zugdzpigyrlq.xgf.gwhiifiug.qxgyrjw
ggggg.cgjqdjpruwgzubgjzxwurjwgzubghzyuqf-fxiig mrjwa”

Cruzyyn,gzwgc.xgwzyf,gfmzfgvx.wwiwfg.cgvx. ixriw,gf.g.tfzrugfmrwgdrvmf
tigzgcrfg.  zwr.ugc.xgzgsrwrfgf.gfmigwizwm.xi,g.x,grcgRgbrbghrfm.qfgrf
zyf.vifmix,gRgwm.qybgjx.tztyngbxrupgfmigyiwwghzfixagRgb.gu.fgyizxugfmzf
fmigRubrzuwgisixgfx.qtyibgfmidwiysiwgf.gv.gzcfixgrfa

FmqwgRg .qybgzs.rbgzyygfxzbigzubgtzxfix,gw.gczxgzwgdngc..bghzw
 .u ixuib,gzubgmzsruvgzgwmiyfixgzyxizbn,grfgh.qybg.uyngxidzrugf.gvif
 y.fmruvgzubgcqiyagFmigjzufzy..uwghmr mgRgu.hghizxghixigh.siugrugz
czxdix’wgczdryn,—fmzupgMizsiugfmixigrwgw.gdq mgsrxfqigwfryygrugdzu;gc.x
Rgfmrupgfmigczyygcx.dgfmigczxdixgf.gfmig.jixzfrsigzwgvxizfgzub
did.xztyigzwgfmzfgcx.dgfmigdzugf.gfmigczxdix;—zubgrugzguihg .qufxn,
cqiygrwgzugiu qdtxzu iagZwgc.xgzgmztrfzf,grcgRghixigu.fgjixdrffibgwfryy
f.gwlqzf,gRgdrvmfgjqx mzwig.uigz xigzfgfmigwzdigjxr igc.xghmr mgfmi
yzubgRg qyfrszfibghzwgw.yb—uzdiyn,girvmfgb.yyzxwgzubgirvmfg iufwagTqf
zwgrfghzw,gRg .uwrbixibgfmzfgRgiumzu ibgfmigszyqig.cgfmigyzubgtn
wlqzffruvg.ugrfa

Fmixigrwgzg ixfzrug yzwwg.cgqutiyrisixwghm.gw.difrdiwgzwpgdigwq m
lqiwfr.uwgzw,grcgRgfmrupgfmzfgRg zugyrsig.ugsivifztyigc..bgzy.ui;gzub
f.gwfxrpigzfgfmigx..fg.cgfmigdzffixgzfg.u i,—c.xgfmigx..fgrwgczrfm,—R
zdgz  qwf.dibgf.gzuwhixgwq m,gfmzfgRg zugyrsig.ugt.zxbguzrywagRcgfmin
 zuu.fgqubixwfzubgfmzf,gfming zuu.fgqubixwfzubgdq mgfmzfgRgmzsigf.gwzna
C.xgdngjzxf,gRgzdgvyzbgf.gmizxg.cgiojixrdiufwg.cgfmrwgprubgtiruvgfxrib;
zwgfmzfgzgn.quvgdzugfxribgc.xgzgc.xfurvmfgf.gyrsig.ugmzxb,gxzhg .xug.u
fmigizx,gqwruvgmrwgfiifmgc.xgzyygd.xfzxagFmigwlqrxxiygfxrtigfxribgfmi
wzdigzubgwq  iibibagFmigmqdzugxz igrwgrufixiwfibgrugfmiwigiojixrdiufw,
fm.qvmgzgcihg.ybgh.diughm.gzxigru zjz rfzfibgc.xgfmid,g.xghm.g.hugfmirx
fmrxbwgrugdryyw,gdzngtigzyzxdiba



Dngcqxurfqxi,gjzxfg.cghmr mgRgdzbigdnwiyc,gzubgfmigxiwfg .wfgdigu.fmruv
.cghmr mgRgmzsigu.fgxiubixibgzugz  .quf,g .uwrwfibg.cgzgtib,gzgfztyi,gz
biwp,gfmxiig mzrxw,gzgy..pruv-vyzwwgfmxiigru miwgrugbrzdifix,gzgjzrxg.c
f.uvwgzubgzubrx.uw,gzgpiffyi,gzgwpryyif,gzubgzgcxnruv-jzu,gzgbrjjix,gz
hzwm-t.hy,gfh.gpursiwgzubgc.xpw,gfmxiigjyzfiw,g.uig qj,g.uigwj..u,gz
kqvgc.xg.ry,gzgkqvgc.xgd.yzwwiw,gzubgzgkzjzuuibgyzdjagU.uigrwgw.gj..x
fmzfgmiguiibgwrfg.ugzgjqdjpruagFmzfgrwgwmrcfyiwwuiwwagFmixigrwgzgjyiufn
.cgwq mg mzrxwgzwgRgyrpigtiwfgrugfmigsryyzvigvzxxifwgf.gtigmzbgc.x
fzpruvgfmidgzhznagCqxurfqxi!gFmzupgV.b,gRg zugwrfgzubgRg zugwfzub
hrfm.qfgfmigzrbg.cgzgcqxurfqxighzxim.qwiagHmzfgdzugtqfgzgjmry.w.jmix
h.qybgu.fgtigzwmzdibgf.gwiigmrwgcqxurfqxigjz pibgrugzg zxfgzubgv.ruvgqj
 .qufxngioj.wibgf.gfmigyrvmfg.cgmizsiugzubgfmiginiwg.cgdiu,gzgtivvzxyn
z  .qufg.cgidjfngt.oiw?gFmzfgrwgWjzqybruv’wgcqxurfqxiagRg .qybguisix
fiyygcx.dgruwji fruvgwq mgzgy.zbghmifmixgrfgtiy.uvibgf.gzgw.g zyyib
xr mgdzug.xgzgj..xg.ui;gfmig.huixgzyhznwgwiidibgj.sixfn-wfxr piua
Rubiib,gfmigd.xign.qgmzsig.cgwq mgfmruvwgfmigj..xixgn.qgzxiagIz mgy.zb
y..pwgzwgrcgrfg .ufzruibgfmig .ufiufwg.cgzgb.eiugwmzufriw;gzubgrcg.ui
wmzufngrwgj..x,gfmrwgrwgzgb.eiugfrdiwgzwgj..xagJxzn,gc.xghmzfgb.ghi
_d.si_gisixgtqfgf.gvifgxrbg.cg.qxgcqxurfqxi,g.qxg_ioqsræ_;gzfgyzwfgf.
v.gcx.dgfmrwgh.xybgf.gzu.fmixguihyngcqxurwmib,gzubgyizsigfmrwgf.gti
tqxuib?gRfgrwgfmigwzdigzwgrcgzyygfmiwigfxzjwghixigtq pyibgf.gzgdzu’w
tiyf,gzubgmig .qybgu.fgd.sig.sixgfmigx.qvmg .qufxnghmixig.qxgyruiwgzxi
 zwfghrfm.qfgbxzvvruvgfmid,—bxzvvruvgmrwgfxzjagMighzwgzgyq pngc.ogfmzf
yicfgmrwgfzrygrugfmigfxzjagFmigdqwpxzfghryygvuzhgmrwgfmrxbgyivg.ccgf.
tigcxiiagU.gh.ubixgdzugmzwgy.wfgmrwgiyzwfr rfnagM.hg.cfiugmigrwgzfgz
bizbgwif!g“Wrx,grcgRgdzngtigw.gt.yb,ghmzfgb.gn.qgdizugtngzgbizbgwif?”
Rcgn.qgzxigzgwiix,ghmiuisixgn.qgdiifgzgdzugn.qghryygwiigzyygfmzfgmi
.huw,gzn,gzubgdq mgfmzfgmigjxifiubwgf.gbrw.hu,gtimrubgmrd,gisiugf.gmrw
prf miugcqxurfqxigzubgzyygfmigfxqdjixnghmr mgmigwzsiwgzubghryygu.f
tqxu,gzubgmighryygzjjizxgf.gtigmzxuiwwibgf.grfgzubgdzpruvghmzfgmizbhzn
mig zuagRgfmrupgfmzfgfmigdzugrwgzfgzgbizbgwifghm.gmzwgv.fgfmx.qvmgz
pu.fgm.yig.xgvzfihznghmixigmrwgwyibvigy.zbg.cgcqxurfqxig zuu.fgc.yy.h
mrdagRg zuu.fgtqfgciiyg .djzwwr.ughmiugRgmizxgw.digfxrv,
 .djz f-y..pruvgdzu,gwiidruvyngcxii,gzyygvrxbibgzubgxizbn,gwjizpg.cgmrw
“cqxurfqxi,”gzwghmifmixgrfgrwgruwqxibg.xgu.fag“TqfghmzfgwmzyygRgb.ghrfm
dngcqxurfqxi?”gDngvzngtqffixcyngrwgiufzuvyibgrugzgwjrbix’wghitgfmiua
Isiugfm.wighm.gwiidgc.xgzgy.uvghmryigu.fgf.gmzsigzun,grcgn.qgrulqrxi
d.xiguzxx.hyngn.qghryygcrubgmzsigw.digwf.xibgrugw.dit.bn’wgtzxuagRgy..p
qj.ugIuvyzubgf.-bzngzwgzug.ybgviufyidzughm.grwgfxzsiyyruvghrfmgzgvxizf
bizyg.cgtzvvzvi,gfxqdjixnghmr mgmzwgz  qdqyzfibgcx.dgy.uvgm.qwipiijruv,
hmr mgmigmzwgu.fgfmig .qxzvigf.gtqxu;gvxizfgfxqup,gyrffyigfxqup,
tzubt.ogzubgtqubyiagFmx.hgzhzngfmigcrxwfgfmxiigzfgyizwfagRfgh.qyb
wqxjzwwgfmigj.hixwg.cgzghiyygdzugu.hzbznwgf.gfzpigqjgmrwgtibgzubghzyp,
zubgRgwm.qybg ixfzruyngzbsrwigzgwr pg.uigf.gyzngb.hugmrwgtibgzubgxqua
HmiugRgmzsigdifgzugrddrvxzufgf.ffixruvgqubixgzgtqubyighmr mg .ufzruib
mrwgzyy—y..pruvgyrpigzugiu.xd.qwghiughmr mgmzbgvx.hug.qfg.cgfmiguzjig.c
mrwgui p—Rgmzsigjrfribgmrd,gu.fgti zqwigfmzfghzwgmrwgzyy,gtqfgti zqwi
migmzbgzyyg_fmzf_gf.g zxxnagRcgRgmzsigv.fgf.gbxzvgdngfxzj,gRghryygfzpi
 zxigfmzfgrfgtigzgyrvmfg.uigzubgb.gu.fgurjgdigrugzgsrfzygjzxfagTqf
jix mzu igrfgh.qybgtighrwiwfguisixgf.gjqfg.ui’wgjzhgruf.grfa

Rgh.qybg.twixsi,gtngfmighzn,gfmzfgrfg .wfwgdigu.fmruvgc.xg qxfzruw,gc.x
Rgmzsigu.gvzeixwgf.gwmqfg.qfgtqfgfmigwqugzubgd..u,gzubgRgzdghryyruv
fmzfgfmingwm.qybgy..pgruagFmigd..ughryygu.fgw.qxgdrypgu.xgfzrufgdizfg.c
drui,gu.xghryygfmigwqugrukqxigdngcqxurfqxig.xgczbigdng zxjif,gzubgrcgmi
rwgw.difrdiwgf..ghzxdgzgcxriub,gRgcrubgrfgwfryygtiffixgi .u.dngf.
xifxizfgtimrubgw.dig qxfzrughmr mguzfqxigmzwgjx.srbib,gfmzugf.gzbbgz
wruvyigrfidgf.gfmigbifzrywg.cgm.qwipiijruvagZgyzbng.u ig.ccixibgdigz
dzf,gtqfgzwgRgmzbgu.gx..dgf.gwjzxighrfmrugfmigm.qwi,gu.xgfrdigf.gwjzxi
hrfmrug.xghrfm.qfgf.gwmzpigrf,gRgbi yruibgrf,gjxicixxruvgf.ghrjigdn
ciifg.ugfmigw.bgtic.xigdngb..xagRfgrwgtiwfgf.gzs.rbgfmigtivruuruvwg.c
isrya

U.fgy.uvgwru igRghzwgjxiwiufgzfgfmigzq fr.ug.cgzgbiz .u’wgicci fw,gc.x
mrwgyrcigmzbgu.fgtiiugruicci fqzy:—

ggggg“Fmigisrygfmzfgdiugb.gyrsiwgzcfixgfmida”

Zwgqwqzy,gzgvxizfgjx.j.xfr.ughzwgfxqdjixnghmr mgmzbgtivqugf.gz  qdqyzfi
rugmrwgczfmix’wgbznagZd.uvgfmigxiwfghzwgzgbxribgfzjih.xdagZubgu.h,
zcfixgynruvgmzycgzg iufqxngrugmrwgvzxxifgzubg.fmixgbqwfgm.yiw,gfmiwi
fmruvwghixigu.fgtqxuib;gruwfizbg.cgzg_t.ucrxi_,g.xgjqxrcnruv
biwfxq fr.ug.cgfmid,gfmixighzwgzug_zq fr.u_,g.xgru xizwruvg.cgfmidagFmi
uirvmt.xwgizvixyng .yyi fibgf.gsrihgfmid,gt.qvmfgfmidgzyy,gzub
 zxicqyyngfxzuwj.xfibgfmidgf.gfmirxgvzxxifwgzubgbqwfgm.yiw,gf.gyri
fmixigfryygfmirxgiwfzfiwgzxigwiffyib,ghmiugfminghryygwfzxfgzvzruagHmiu
zgdzugbriwgmigpr pwgfmigbqwfa

Fmig qwf.dwg.cgw.digwzszviguzfr.uwgdrvmf,gjix mzu i,gtigjx.crfztyn
rdrfzfibgtngqw,gc.xgfmingzfgyizwfgv.gfmx.qvmgfmigwidtyzu ig.cg zwfruv
fmirxgwy.qvmgzuuqzyyn;gfmingmzsigfmigrbizg.cgfmigfmruv,ghmifmixgfmin
mzsigfmigxizyrfng.xgu.fagH.qybgrfgu.fgtighiyygrcghighixigf.g iyitxzfi
wq mgzg“tqwp,”g.xg“cizwfg.cgcrxwfgcxqrfw,”gzwgTzxfxzdgbiw xrtiwgf.gmzsi
tiiugfmig qwf.dg.cgfmigDq  yzwwigRubrzuw?g“Hmiugzgf.hug iyitxzfiwgfmi
tqwp,”gwznwgmi,g“mzsruvgjxisr.qwyngjx.srbibgfmidwiysiwghrfmguih
 y.fmiw,guihgj.fw,gjzuw,gzubg.fmixgm.qwim.ybgqfiuwrywgzubgcqxurfqxi,
fming .yyi fgzyygfmirxgh.xug.qfg y.fmiwgzubg.fmixgbiwjr ztyigfmruvw,
whiijgzubg yizuwigfmirxgm.qwiw,gwlqzxiw,gzubgfmighm.yigf.hug.cgfmirx
cryfm,ghmr mghrfmgzyygfmigxidzruruvgvxzrugzubg.fmixg.ybgjx.srwr.uwgfmin
 zwfgf.vifmixgruf.g.uig .dd.ugmizj,gzubg .uwqdigrfghrfmgcrxiagZcfix
mzsruvgfzpiugdibr rui,gzubgczwfibgc.xgfmxiigbznw,gzyygfmigcrxigrugfmi
f.hugrwgiofruvqrwmibagBqxruvgfmrwgczwfgfmingztwfzrugcx.dgfmi
vxzfrcr zfr.ug.cgisixngzjjifrfigzubgjzwwr.ughmzfisixagZgviuixzygzduiwfn
rwgjx. yzrdib;gzyygdzyicz f.xwgdzngxifqxugf.gfmirxgf.hua—”

“.ugfmigc.qxfmgd.xuruv,gfmigmrvmgjxriwf,gtngxqttruvgbxngh..bgf.vifmix,
jx.bq iwguihgcrxigrugfmigjqtyr gwlqzxi,gcx.dghmiu igisixngmztrfzfr.ugru
fmigf.hugrwgwqjjyribghrfmgfmiguihgzubgjqxigcyzdia”

Fmingfmiugcizwfg.ugfmiguihg .xugzubgcxqrfw,gzubgbzu igzubgwruvgc.x
fmxiigbznw,g“zubgfmigc.qxgc.yy.hruvgbznwgfmingxi irsigsrwrfwgzub
xik.r ighrfmgfmirxgcxriubwgcx.dguirvmt.xruvgf.huwghm.gmzsigrugyrpi
dzuuixgjqxrcribgzubgjxijzxibgfmidwiysiwa”

FmigDior zuwgzyw.gjxz frwibgzgwrdryzxgjqxrcr zfr.ugzfgfmigiubg.cgisixn
crcfn-fh.gnizxw,grugfmigtiyricgfmzfgrfghzwgfrdigc.xgfmigh.xybgf.g .di
f.gzugiuba

Rgmzsigw zx iyngmizxbg.cgzgfxqixgwz xzdiuf,gfmzfgrw,gzwgfmigbr fr.uzxn
bicruiwgrf,g“.qfhzxbgzubgsrwrtyigwrvug.cgzugruhzxbgzubgwjrxrfqzy
vxz i,”gfmzugfmrw,gzubgRgmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzfgfminghixig.xrvruzyyn
ruwjrxibgbrxi fyngcx.dgMizsiugf.gb.gfmqw,gfm.qvmgfmingmzsigu.gtrtyr zy
xi .xbg.cgfmigxisiyzfr.ua



C.xgd.xigfmzugcrsignizxwgRgdzrufzruibgdnwiycgfmqwgw.yiyngtngfmigyzt.x
.cgdngmzubw,gzubgRgc.qub,gfmzfgtngh.xpruvgzt.qfgwroghiipwgrugzgnizx,gR
 .qybgdiifgzyygfmigiojiuwiwg.cgyrsruvagFmighm.yig.cgdnghrufixw,gzwghiyy
zwgd.wfg.cgdngwqddixw,gRgmzbgcxiigzubg yizxgc.xgwfqbnagRgmzsi
fm.x.qvmyngfxribgw m..y-piijruv,gzubgc.qubgfmzfgdngiojiuwiwghixigru
jx.j.xfr.u,g.xgxzfmixg.qfg.cgjx.j.xfr.u,gf.gdngru .di,gc.xgRghzw
.tyrvibgf.gbxiwwgzubgfxzru,gu.fgf.gwzngfmrupgzubgtiyrisi,gz  .xbruvyn,
zubgRgy.wfgdngfrdigruf.gfmigtzxvzruagZwgRgbrbgu.fgfiz mgc.xgfmigv..bg.c
dngciyy.h-diu,gtqfgwrdjyngc.xgzgyrsiyrm..b,gfmrwghzwgzgczryqxiagRgmzsi
fxribgfxzbi;gtqfgRgc.qubgfmzfgrfgh.qybgfzpigfiugnizxwgf.gvifgqubixghzn
rugfmzf,gzubgfmzfgfmiugRgwm.qybgjx.tztyngtig.ugdnghzngf.gfmigbisryagR
hzwgz fqzyyngzcxzrbgfmzfgRgdrvmfgtngfmzfgfrdigtigb.ruvghmzfgrwg zyyibgz
v..bgtqwruiwwagHmiugc.xdixyngRghzwgy..pruvgzt.qfgf.gwiighmzfgRg .qybgb.
c.xgzgyrsruv,gw.digwzbgiojixriu igrug .uc.xdruvgf.gfmighrwmiwg.c
cxriubwgtiruvgcxiwmgrugdngdrubgf.gfzogdngruviuqrfn,gRgfm.qvmfg.cfiugzub
wixr.qwyng.cgjr pruvgmq pyitixxriw;gfmzfgwqxiyngRg .qybgb.,gzubgrfw
wdzyygjx.crfwgdrvmfgwqccr i,—c.xgdngvxizfiwfgwpryygmzwgtiiugf.ghzufgtqf
yrffyi,—w.gyrffyig zjrfzygrfgxilqrxib,gw.gyrffyigbrwfxz fr.ugcx.dgdn
h.ufibgd..bw,gRgc..yrwmyngfm.qvmfagHmryigdngz lqzrufzu iwghiuf
qumiwrfzfruvyngruf.gfxzbig.xgfmigjx.ciwwr.uw,gRg .ufidjyzfibgfmrw
.  qjzfr.ugzwgd.wfgyrpigfmirxw;gxzuvruvgfmigmryywgzyygwqddixgf.gjr p
fmigtixxriwghmr mg zdigrugdnghzn,gzubgfmixizcfixg zxiyiwwyngbrwj.wig.c
fmid;gw.,gf.gpiijgfmigcy. pwg.cgZbdifqwagRgzyw.gbxizdibgfmzfgRgdrvmf
vzfmixgfmighrybgmixtw,g.xg zxxngisixvxiiuwgf.gwq mgsryyzvixwgzwgy.sib
f.gtigxidrubibg.cgfmigh..bw,gisiugf.gfmig rfn,gtngmzn- zxfgy.zbwagTqfgR
mzsigwru igyizxuibgfmzfgfxzbig qxwiwgisixnfmruvgrfgmzubyiw;gzubgfm.qvm
n.qgfxzbigrugdiwwzviwgcx.dgmizsiu,gfmighm.yig qxwig.cgfxzbigzffz miwgf.
fmigtqwruiwwa

ZwgRgjxicixxibgw.digfmruvwgf.g.fmixw,gzubgiwji rzyyngszyqibgdngcxiib.d,
zwgRg .qybgczxigmzxbgzubgnifgwq  iibghiyy,gRgbrbgu.fghrwmgf.gwjiubgdn
frdigrugizxuruvgxr mg zxjifwg.xg.fmixgcruigcqxurfqxi,g.xgbiyr zfi
 ..pixn,g.xgzgm.qwigrugfmigVxi rzug.xgfmigV.fmr gwfnyigkqwfgnifagRc
fmixigzxigzungf.ghm.dgrfgrwgu.grufixxqjfr.ugf.gz lqrxigfmiwigfmruvw,
zubghm.gpu.hgm.hgf.gqwigfmidghmiugz lqrxib,gRgxiyrulqrwmgf.gfmidgfmi
jqxwqrfagW.digzxig“rubqwfxr.qw,”gzubgzjjizxgf.gy.sigyzt.xgc.xgrfwg.hu
wzpi,g.xgjixmzjwgti zqwigrfgpiijwgfmidg.qfg.cgh.xwigdrw mric;gf.gwq mgR
mzsigzfgjxiwiufgu.fmruvgf.gwznagFm.wighm.gh.qybgu.fgpu.hghmzfgf.gb.
hrfmgd.xigyirwqxigfmzugfmingu.hgiuk.n,gRgdrvmfgzbsrwigf.gh.xpgfhr igzw
mzxbgzwgfmingb.,—h.xpgfryygfmingjzngc.xgfmidwiysiw,gzubgvifgfmirxgcxii
jzjixwagC.xgdnwiycgRgc.qubgfmzfgfmig.  qjzfr.ug.cgzgbzn-yzt.xixghzwgfmi
d.wfgrubijiubiufg.cgzun,giwji rzyyngzwgrfgxilqrxibg.uyngfmrxfng.xgc.xfn
bznwgrugzgnizxgf.gwqjj.xfg.uiagFmigyzt.xix’wgbzngiubwghrfmgfmigv.ruv
b.hug.cgfmigwqu,gzubgmigrwgfmiugcxiigf.gbis.figmrdwiycgf.gmrwg m.wiu
jqxwqrf,grubijiubiufg.cgmrwgyzt.x;gtqfgmrwgidjy.nix,ghm.gwji qyzfiw
cx.dgd.ufmgf.gd.ufm,gmzwgu.gxiwjrfigcx.dg.uigiubg.cgfmignizxgf.gfmi
.fmixa

Rugwm.xf,gRgzdg .usru ib,gt.fmgtngczrfmgzubgiojixriu i,gfmzfgf.
dzrufzrug.ui’wgwiycg.ugfmrwgizxfmgrwgu.fgzgmzxbwmrjgtqfgzgjzwfrdi,grc
highryygyrsigwrdjyngzubghrwiyn;gzwgfmigjqxwqrfwg.cgfmigwrdjyixguzfr.uw
zxigwfryygfmigwj.xfwg.cgfmigd.xigzxfrcr rzyagRfgrwgu.fgui iwwzxngfmzfgz
dzugwm.qybgizxugmrwgyrsruvgtngfmigwhizfg.cgmrwgtx.h,gquyiwwgmigwhizfw
izwrixgfmzugRgb.a

.uign.quvgdzug.cgdngz lqzrufzu i,ghm.gmzwgrumixrfibgw.digz xiw,gf.ybgdi
fmzfgmigfm.qvmfgmigwm.qybgyrsigzwgRgbrb,g_rcgmigmzbgfmigdizuw_agRgh.qyb
u.fgmzsigzung.uigzb.jfg_dn_gd.big.cgyrsruvg.ugzungz  .quf;gc.x,gtiwrbi
fmzfgtic.xigmigmzwgczrxyngyizxuibgrfgRgdzngmzsigc.qubg.qfgzu.fmixgc.x
dnwiyc,gRgbiwrxigfmzfgfmixigdzngtigzwgdzungbrccixiufgjixw.uwgrugfmi
h.xybgzwgj.wwrtyi;gtqfgRgh.qybgmzsigiz mg.uigtigsixng zxicqygf.gcrub
.qfgzubgjqxwqig_mrwg.hu_ghzn,gzubgu.fgmrwgczfmix’wg.xgmrwgd.fmix’wg.x
mrwguirvmt.x’wgruwfizbagFmign.qfmgdzngtqrybg.xgjyzufg.xgwzry,g.uyngyif
mrdgu.fgtigmrubixibgcx.dgb.ruvgfmzfghmr mgmigfiyywgdigmigh.qybgyrpigf.
b.agRfgrwgtngzgdzfmidzfr zygj.rufg.uyngfmzfghigzxighrwi,gzwgfmigwzry.x
.xgfmigcqvrfrsigwyzsigpiijwgfmigj.yiwfzxgrugmrwgini;gtqfgfmzfgrw
wqccr riufgvqrbzu igc.xgzyyg.qxgyrciagHigdzngu.fgzxxrsigzfg.qxgj.xf
hrfmrugzg zy qyztyigjixr.b,gtqfghigh.qybgjxiwixsigfmigfxqig .qxwia

Qub.qtfibyn,grugfmrwg zwi,ghmzfgrwgfxqigc.xg.uigrwgfxqixgwfryygc.xgz
fm.qwzub,gzwgzgyzxvigm.qwigrwgu.fgjx.j.xfr.uzyyngd.xigiojiuwrsigfmzugz
wdzyyg.ui,gwru ig.uigx..cgdzng .six,g.uig iyyzxgqubixyri,gzubg.uighzyy
wijzxzfigwisixzygzjzxfdiufwagTqfgc.xgdngjzxf,gRgjxicixxibgfmigw.yrfzxn
bhiyyruvagD.xi.six,grfghryyg .dd.uyngtig mizjixgf.gtqrybgfmighm.yi
n.qxwiycgfmzugf.g .usru igzu.fmixg.cgfmigzbszufzvig.cgfmig .dd.ughzyy;
zubghmiugn.qgmzsigb.uigfmrw,gfmig .dd.ugjzxfrfr.u,gf.gtigdq mg mizjix,
dqwfgtigzgfmrug.ui,gzubgfmzfg.fmixgdzngjx.sigzgtzbguirvmt.x,gzubgzyw.
u.fgpiijgmrwgwrbigrugxijzrxagFmig.uyng .öjixzfr.ughmr mgrwg .dd.uyn
j.wwrtyigrwgio iibruvyngjzxfrzygzubgwqjixcr rzy;gzubghmzfgyrffyigfxqi
 .öjixzfr.ugfmixigrw,grwgzwgrcgrfghixigu.f,gtiruvgzgmzxd.ungruzqbrtyi
f.gdiuagRcgzgdzugmzwgczrfm,gmighryyg .öjixzfighrfmgilqzygczrfm
isixnhmixi;grcgmigmzwgu.fgczrfm,gmighryyg .ufruqigf.gyrsigyrpigfmigxiwf
.cgfmigh.xyb,ghmzfisixg .djzungmigrwgk.ruibgf.agF.g .öjixzfi,grugfmi
mrvmiwfgzwghiyygzwgfmigy.hiwfgwiuwi,gdizuwg_f.gvifg.qxgyrsruv
f.vifmix_agRgmizxbgrfgjx.j.wibgyzfiyngfmzfgfh.gn.quvgdiugwm.qybgfxzsiy
f.vifmixg.sixgfmigh.xyb,gfmig.uighrfm.qfgd.uin,gizxuruvgmrwgdizuwgzwgmi
hiuf,gtic.xigfmigdzwfgzubgtimrubgfmigjy.h,gfmig.fmixg zxxnruvgzgtryyg.c
io mzuvigrugmrwgj. pifagRfghzwgizwngf.gwiigfmzfgfming .qybgu.fgy.uvgti
 .djzur.uwg.xg .öjixzfi,gwru ig.uigh.qybgu.fg_.jixzfi_gzfgzyyagFmin
h.qybgjzxfgzfgfmigcrxwfgrufixiwfruvg xrwrwgrugfmirxgzbsiufqxiwagZt.si
zyy,gzwgRgmzsigrdjyrib,gfmigdzughm.gv.iwgzy.uig zugwfzxfgf.-bzn;gtqfgmi
hm.gfxzsiywghrfmgzu.fmixgdqwfghzrfgfryygfmzfg.fmixgrwgxizbn,gzubgrfgdzn
tigzgy.uvgfrdigtic.xigfmingvifg.cca



Tqfgzyygfmrwgrwgsixngwiycrwm,gRgmzsigmizxbgw.dig.cgdngf.huwdiugwznagR
 .uciwwgfmzfgRgmzsigmrfmixf.grubqyvibgsixngyrffyigrugjmryzufmx.jr 
iufixjxrwiwagRgmzsigdzbigw.digwz xrcr iwgf.gzgwiuwig.cgbqfn,gzubgzd.uv
.fmixwgmzsigwz xrcr ibgfmrwgjyizwqxigzyw.agFmixigzxigfm.wighm.gmzsi
qwibgzyygfmirxgzxfwgf.gjixwqzbigdigf.gqubixfzpigfmigwqjj.xfg.cgw.di
j..xgczdryngrugfmigf.hu;gzubgrcgRgmzbgu.fmruvgf.gb.,—c.xgfmigbisry
crubwgidjy.ndiufgc.xgfmigrbyi,—Rgdrvmfgfxngdngmzubgzfgw.digwq mgjzwfrdi
zwgfmzfagM.hisix,ghmiugRgmzsigfm.qvmfgf.grubqyvigdnwiycgrugfmrw
xiwji f,gzubgyzngfmirxgMizsiugqubixgzug.tyrvzfr.ugtngdzrufzruruv
 ixfzrugj..xgjixw.uwgrugzyygxiwji fwgzwg .dc.xfztyngzwgRgdzrufzru
dnwiyc,gzubgmzsigisiugsiufqxibgw.gczxgzwgf.gdzpigfmidgfmig.ccix,gfmin
mzsig.uigzubgzyygqumiwrfzfruvyngjxicixxibgf.gxidzrugj..xagHmryigdn
f.huwdiugzubgh.diugzxigbis.fibgrugw.gdzunghznwgf.gfmigv..bg.cgfmirx
ciyy.hw,gRgfxqwfgfmzfg.uigzfgyizwfgdzngtigwjzxibgf.g.fmixgzubgyiww
mqdzuigjqxwqrfwagN.qgdqwfgmzsigzgviurqwgc.xg mzxrfngzwghiyygzwgc.xgzun
fmruvgiywiagZwgc.xgB.ruv-v..b,gfmzfgrwg.uig.cgfmigjx.ciwwr.uwghmr mgzxi
cqyyagD.xi.six,gRgmzsigfxribgrfgczrxyn,gzub,gwfxzuvigzwgrfgdzngwiid,gzd
wzfrwcribgfmzfgrfgb.iwgu.fgzvxiighrfmgdng .uwfrfqfr.uagJx.tztyngR
wm.qybgu.fg .uw r.qwyngzubgbiyrtixzfiyngc.xwzpigdngjzxfr qyzxg zyyruv
f.gb.gfmigv..bghmr mgw. rifngbidzubwg.cgdi,gf.gwzsigfmigqursixwigcx.d
zuurmryzfr.u;gzubgRgtiyrisigfmzfgzgyrpigtqfgrucrurfiyngvxizfix
wfizbczwfuiwwgiywihmixigrwgzyygfmzfgu.hgjxiwixsiwgrfagTqfgRgh.qybgu.f
wfzubgtifhiiugzungdzugzubgmrwgviurqw;gzubgf.gmrdghm.gb.iwgfmrwgh.xp,
hmr mgRgbi yrui,ghrfmgmrwghm.yigmizxfgzubgw.qygzubgyrci,gRgh.qybgwzn,
Jixwisixi,gisiugrcgfmigh.xybg zyygrfgb.ruvgisry,gzwgrfgrwgd.wfgyrpiyn
fminghryya

Rgzdgczxgcx.dgwqjj.wruvgfmzfgdng zwigrwgzgji qyrzxg.ui;gu.gb.qtfgdzun
.cgdngxizbixwgh.qybgdzpigzgwrdryzxgbiciu iagZfgb.ruvgw.difmruv,—Rghryy
u.fgiuvzvigfmzfgdnguirvmt.xwgwmzyygjx.u.qu igrfgv..b,—Rgb.gu.fgmiwrfzfi
f.gwzngfmzfgRgwm.qybgtigzg zjrfzygciyy.hgf.gmrxi;gtqfghmzfgfmzfgrw,grf
rwgc.xgdngidjy.nixgf.gcrubg.qfagHmzfg_v..b_gRgb.,grugfmig .dd.ugwiuwi
.cgfmzfgh.xb,gdqwfgtigzwrbigcx.dgdngdzrugjzfm,gzubgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf
hm.yyngqurufiubibagDiugwzn,gjxz fr zyyn,gTivrughmixign.qgzxigzubgwq m
zwgn.qgzxi,ghrfm.qfgzrdruvgdzruyngf.gti .dig.cgd.xigh.xfm,gzubghrfm
prubuiwwgzc.xifm.qvmfgv.gzt.qfgb.ruvgv..bagRcgRghixigf.gjxiz mgzfgzyy
rugfmrwgwfxzru,gRgwm.qybgwzngxzfmix,gWifgzt.qfgtiruvgv..bagZwgrcgfmi
wqugwm.qybgwf.jghmiugmigmzbgprubyibgmrwgcrxiwgqjgf.gfmigwjyiub.xg.cgz
d..ug.xgzgwfzxg.cgfmigwrofmgdzvurfqbi,gzubgv.gzt.qfgyrpigzgX.tru
V..bciyy.h,gjiijruvgrugzfgisixng .ffzvighrub.h,gruwjrxruvgyquzfr w,gzub
fzrufruvgdizfw,gzubgdzpruvgbzxpuiwwgsrwrtyi,gruwfizbg.cgwfizbryn
ru xizwruvgmrwgviurzygmizfgzubgtiuicr iu igfryygmigrwg.cgwq m
txrvmfuiwwgfmzfgu.gd.xfzyg zugy..pgmrdgrugfmigcz i,gzubgfmiu,gzubgru
fmigdizughmryigf..,gv.ruvgzt.qfgfmigh.xybgrugmrwg.hug.xtrf,gb.ruvgrf
v..b,g.xgxzfmix,gzwgzgfxqixgjmry.w.jmngmzwgbrw .sixib,gfmigh.xybgv.ruv
zt.qfgmrdgviffruvgv..bagHmiugJmzif.u,ghrwmruvgf.gjx.sigmrwgmizsiuyn
trxfmgtngmrwgtiuicr iu i,gmzbgfmigwqu’wg mzxr.fgtqfg.uigbzn,gzubgbx.si
.qfg.cgfmigtizfiugfxz p,gmigtqxuibgwisixzygty. pwg.cgm.qwiwgrugfmi
y.hixgwfxiifwg.cgmizsiu,gzubgw .x mibgfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmigizxfm,gzub
bxribgqjgisixngwjxruv,gzubgdzbigfmigvxizfgbiwixfg.cgWzmzxz,gfryygzf
yiuvfmgKqjrfixgmqxyibgmrdgmizby.uvgf.gfmigizxfmghrfmgzgfmqubixt.yf,gzub
fmigwqu,gfmx.qvmgvxricgzfgmrwgbizfm,gbrbgu.fgwmruigc.xgzgnizxa

Fmixigrwgu.g.b.xgw.gtzbgzwgfmzfghmr mgzxrwiwgcx.dgv..buiwwgfzrufibagRf
rwgmqdzu,grfgrwgbrsrui,g zxxr.uagRcgRgpuihgc.xgzg ixfzrufngfmzfgzgdzu
hzwg .druvgf.gdngm.qwighrfmgfmig .uw r.qwgbiwrvug.cgb.ruvgdigv..b,gR
wm.qybgxqugc.xgdngyrci,gzwgcx.dgfmzfgbxngzubgjzx mruvghrubg.cgfmi
Zcxr zugbiwixfwg zyyibgfmigwrd..d,ghmr mgcryywgfmigd.qfmgzubgu.wigzub
izxwgzubginiwghrfmgbqwfgfryygn.qgzxigwqcc. zfib,gc.xgcizxgfmzfgRgwm.qyb
vifgw.dig.cgmrwgv..bgb.uigf.gdi,—w.dig.cgrfwgsrxqwgdruvyibghrfmgdn
ty..bagU.,—rugfmrwg zwigRgh.qybgxzfmixgwqccixgisrygfmiguzfqxzyghznagZ
dzugrwgu.fgzgv..bg_dzu_gf.gdigti zqwigmighryygciibgdigrcgRgwm.qybgti
wfzxsruv,g.xghzxdgdigrcgRgwm.qybgtigcxiieruv,g.xgjqyygdig.qfg.cgzgbrf m
rcgRgwm.qybgisixgczyygruf.g.uiagRg zugcrubgn.qgzgUihc.qubyzubgb.vgfmzf
hryygb.gzwgdq magJmryzufmx.jngrwgu.fgy.sigc.xg.ui’wgciyy.h-dzugrugfmi
tx.zbiwfgwiuwiagM.hzxbghzwgu.gb.qtfgzugio iibruvyngprubgzubgh.xfmngdzu
rugmrwghzn,gzubgmzwgmrwgxihzxb;gtqf,g .djzxzfrsiyngwjizpruv,ghmzfgzxigz
mqubxibgM.hzxbwgf.g_qw_,grcgfmirxgjmryzufmx.jngb.gu.fgmiyjg_qw_grug.qx
tiwfgiwfzfi,ghmiughigzxigd.wfgh.xfmngf.gtigmiyjib?gRguisixgmizxbg.cgz
jmryzufmx.jr gdiifruvgrughmr mgrfghzwgwru ixiyngjx.j.wibgf.gb.gzungv..b
f.gdi,g.xgfmigyrpig.cgdia

FmigKiwqrfwghixiglqrfigtzypibgtngfm.wigRubrzuwghm.,gtiruvgtqxuibgzfgfmi
wfzpi,gwqvviwfibguihgd.biwg.cgf.xfqxigf.gfmirxgf.xdiuf.xwagTiruv
wqjixr.xgf.gjmnwr zygwqccixruv,grfgw.difrdiwg mzu ibgfmzfgfminghixi
wqjixr.xgf.gzung .uw.yzfr.ughmr mgfmigdrwwr.uzxriwg .qybg.ccix;gzubgfmi
yzhgf.gb.gzwgn.qgh.qybgtigb.uigtngciyyghrfmgyiwwgjixwqzwrsiuiwwg.ugfmi
izxwg.cgfm.wighm.,gc.xgfmirxgjzxf,gbrbgu.fg zxigm.hgfminghixigb.uigtn,
hm.gy.sibgfmirxgiuidriwgzcfixgzguihgczwmr.u,gzubg zdigsixnguizxgcxiiyn
c.xvrsruvgfmidgzyygfmingbrba

Tigwqxigfmzfgn.qgvrsigfmigj..xgfmigzrbgfmingd.wfguiib,gfm.qvmgrfgti
n.qxgiozdjyighmr mgyizsiwgfmidgczxgtimrubagRcgn.qgvrsigd.uin,gwjiub
n.qxwiycghrfmgrf,gzubgb.gu.fgdixiyngztzub.ugrfgf.gfmidagHigdzpig qxr.qw
drwfzpiwgw.difrdiwag.cfiugfmigj..xgdzugrwgu.fgw.g .ybgzubgmquvxngzwgmi
rwgbrxfngzubgxzvvibgzubgvx.wwagRfgrwgjzxfyngmrwgfzwfi,gzubgu.fgdixiyn
mrwgdrwc.xfquiagRcgn.qgvrsigmrdgd.uin,gmighryygjixmzjwgtqngd.xigxzvw
hrfmgrfagRghzwgh.ufgf.gjrfngfmig yqdwngRxrwmgyzt.xixwghm.g qfgr ig.u
fmigj.ub,grugwq mgdizugzubgxzvvibg y.fmiw,ghmryigRgwmrsixibgrugdngd.xi
frbngzubgw.dihmzfgd.xigczwmr.uztyigvzxdiufw,gfryy,g.uigtrffixg .ybgbzn,
.uighm.gmzbgwyrjjibgruf.gfmighzfixg zdigf.gdngm.qwigf.ghzxdgmrd,gzubgR
wzhgmrdgwfxrjg.ccgfmxiigjzrxwg.cgjzufwgzubgfh.gjzrxwg.cgwf. pruvwgixi
migv.fgb.hugf.gfmigwpru,gfm.qvmgfminghixigbrxfngzubgxzvvibgiu.qvm,grf
rwgfxqi,gzubgfmzfgmig .qybgzcc.xbgf.gxicqwigfmig_iofxz_gvzxdiufwghmr m
Rg.ccixibgmrd,gmigmzbgw.gdzung_rufxz_g.uiwagFmrwgbq pruvghzwgfmigsixn
fmruvgmiguiibibagFmiugRgtivzugf.gjrfngdnwiyc,gzubgRgwzhgfmzfgrfgh.qyb
tigzgvxizfixg mzxrfngf.gtiwf.hg.ugdigzgcyzuuiygwmrxfgfmzugzghm.yi
wy.j-wm.jg.ugmrdagFmixigzxigzgfm.qwzubgmz pruvgzfgfmigtxzu miwg.cgisry
f.g.uighm.grwgwfxrpruvgzfgfmigx..f,gzubgrfgdzngtigfmzfgmighm.gtiwf.hw
fmigyzxviwfgzd.qufg.cgfrdigzubgd.uing.ugfmiguiibngrwgb.ruvgfmigd.wfgtn
mrwgd.big.cgyrcigf.gjx.bq igfmzfgdrwixnghmr mgmigwfxrsiwgrugszrugf.
xiyrisiagRfgrwgfmigjr.qwgwyzsi-txiibixgbis.fruvgfmigjx. iibwg.cgisixn
fiufmgwyzsigf.gtqngzgWqubzn’wgyrtixfngc.xgfmigxiwfagW.digwm.hgfmirx
prubuiwwgf.gfmigj..xgtngidjy.nruvgfmidgrugfmirxgprf miuwagH.qybgfmin
u.fgtigprubixgrcgfmingidjy.nibgfmidwiysiwgfmixi?gN.qgt.zwfg.cgwjiubruv
zgfiufmgjzxfg.cgn.qxgru .digrug mzxrfn;gdzntign.qgwm.qybgwjiubgfmigurui
fiufmwgw.,gzubgb.uighrfmgrfagW. rifngxi .sixwg.uyngzgfiufmgjzxfg.cgfmi
jx.jixfngfmiuagRwgfmrwg.hruvgf.gfmigviuix.wrfng.cgmrdgrughm.wi
j.wwiwwr.ugrfgrwgc.qub,g.xgf.gfmigxidrwwuiwwg.cgfmig.ccr ixwg.c
kqwfr i?

Jmryzufmx.jngrwgzyd.wfgfmig.uyngsrxfqighmr mgrwgwqccr riufyn
zjjxi rzfibgtngdzuprubagUzn,grfgrwgvxizfyng.sixxzfib;gzubgrfgrwg.qx
wiycrwmuiwwghmr mg.sixxzfiwgrfagZgx.tqwfgj..xgdzu,g.uigwquungbzngmixi
rug .u .xb,gjxzrwibgzgciyy.h-f.huwdzugf.gdi,gti zqwi,gzwgmigwzrb,gmi
hzwgprubgf.gfmigj..x;gdizuruvgmrdwiycagFmigprubgqu yiwgzubgzqufwg.cgfmi
xz igzxigd.xigiwfiidibgfmzugrfwgfxqigwjrxrfqzygczfmixwgzubgd.fmixwagR
.u igmizxbgzgxisixiubgyi fqxixg.ugIuvyzub,gzgdzug.cgyizxuruvgzub
rufiyyrviu i,gzcfixgiuqdixzfruvgmixgw riufrcr ,gyrfixzxn,gzubgj.yrfr zy
h.xfmriw,gWmzpiwjizxi,gTz .u,g x.dhiyy,gDryf.u,gUihf.u,gzubg.fmixw,
wjizpguiofg.cgmixg mxrwfrzugmix.iw,ghm.d,gzwgrcgmrwgjx.ciwwr.ugxilqrxib
rfg.cgmrd,gmigiyiszfibgf.gzgjyz igczxgzt.sigzyygfmigxiwf,gzwgfmi
vxizfiwfg.cgfmigvxizfagFminghixigJiuu,gM.hzxb,gzubgDxwagCxnagIsixng.ui
dqwfgciiygfmigczywim..bgzubg zufg.cgfmrwagFmigyzwfghixigu.fgIuvyzub’w
tiwfgdiugzubgh.diu;g.uyn,gjixmzjw,gmixgtiwfgjmryzufmx.jrwfwa

Rgh.qybgu.fgwqtfxz fgzungfmruvgcx.dgfmigjxzrwigfmzfgrwgbqigf.
jmryzufmx.jn,gtqfgdixiyngbidzubgkqwfr igc.xgzyyghm.gtngfmirxgyrsiwgzub
h.xpwgzxigzgtyiwwruvgf.gdzuprubagRgb.gu.fgszyqig mricyngzgdzu’w
qjxrvmfuiwwgzubgtiuis.yiu i,ghmr mgzxi,gzwgrfghixi,gmrwgwfidgzub
yizsiwagFm.wigjyzufwg.cghm.wigvxiiuuiwwghrfmixibghigdzpigmixtgfizgc.x
fmigwr p,gwixsigtqfgzgmqdtyigqwi,gzubgzxigd.wfgidjy.nibgtnglqz pwagR
hzufgfmigcy.hixgzubgcxqrfg.cgzgdzu;gfmzfgw.digcxzvxzu igtighzcfibg.six
cx.dgmrdgf.gdi,gzubgw.digxrjiuiwwgcyzs.xg.qxgrufix .qxwiagMrwgv..buiww
dqwfgu.fgtigzgjzxfrzygzubgfxzuwrf.xngz f,gtqfgzg .uwfzufgwqjixcyqrfn,
hmr mg .wfwgmrdgu.fmruvgzubg.cghmr mgmigrwgqu .uw r.qwagFmrwgrwgz
 mzxrfngfmzfgmrbiwgzgdqyfrfqbig.cgwruwagFmigjmryzufmx.jrwfgf..g.cfiu
wqxx.qubwgdzuprubghrfmgfmigxididtxzu ig.cgmrwg.hug zwf-.ccgvxricwgzwgzu
zfd.wjmixi,gzubg zyywgrfgwndjzfmnagHigwm.qybgrdjzxfg.qxg .qxzvi,gzub
u.fg.qxgbiwjzrx,g.qxgmizyfmgzubgizwi,gzubgu.fg.qxgbrwizwi,gzubgfzpi
 zxigfmzfgfmrwgb.iwgu.fgwjxizbgtng .ufzvr.uagCx.dghmzfgw.qfmixugjyzruw
 .diwgqjgfmigs.r ig.cghzryruv?gQubixghmzfgyzfrfqbiwgxiwrbigfmigmizfmiu
f.ghm.dghigh.qybgwiubgyrvmf?gHm.grwgfmzfgrufidjixzfigzubgtxqfzygdzu
hm.dghigh.qybgxibiid?gRcgzungfmruvgzrygzgdzu,gw.gfmzfgmigb.iwgu.f
jixc.xdgmrwgcqu fr.uw,grcgmigmzsigzgjzrugrugmrwgt.hiywgisiu,—c.xgfmzf
rwgfmigwizfg.cgwndjzfmn,—migc.xfmhrfmgwifwgzt.qfgxic.xdruv—fmigh.xyba
Tiruvgzgdr x. .wdgmrdwiyc,gmigbrw .sixw,gzubgrfgrwgzgfxqigbrw .sixn,
zubgmigrwgfmigdzugf.gdzpigrf,—fmzfgfmigh.xybgmzwgtiiugizfruvgvxiiu
zjjyiw;gf.gmrwginiw,grugcz f,gfmigvy.tigrfwiycgrwgzgvxizfgvxiiugzjjyi,
hmr mgfmixigrwgbzuvixgzhcqygf.gfmrupg.cgfmzfgfmig mrybxiug.cgdiughryy
urttyigtic.xigrfgrwgxrji;gzubgwfxzrvmfhzngmrwgbxzwfr gjmryzufmx.jn
wiipwg.qfgfmigIwlqrdzqogzubgfmigJzfzv.urzu,gzubgidtxz iwgfmigj.jqy.qw
Rubrzugzubg mruiwigsryyzviw;gzubgfmqw,gtngzgcihgnizxwg.cgjmryzufmx.jr 
z frsrfn,gfmigj.hixwgrugfmigdizughmryigqwruvgmrdgc.xgfmirxg.hugiubw,gu.
b.qtf,gmig qxiwgmrdwiycg.cgmrwgbnwjijwrz,gfmigvy.tigz lqrxiwgzgczruf
tyqwmg.ug.uig.xgt.fmg.cgrfwg miipw,gzwgrcgrfghixigtivruuruvgf.gtigxrji,
zubgyrcigy.wiwgrfwg xqbrfngzubgrwg.u igd.xigwhiifgzubghm.yiw.digf.
yrsiagRguisixgbxizdibg.cgzungiu.xdrfngvxizfixgfmzugRgmzsig .ddrffibagR
uisixgpuih,gzubguisixgwmzyygpu.h,gzgh.xwigdzugfmzugdnwiyca

Rgtiyrisigfmzfghmzfgw.gwzbbiuwgfmigxic.xdixgrwgu.fgmrwgwndjzfmnghrfm
mrwgciyy.hwgrugbrwfxiww,gtqf,gfm.qvmgmigtigfmigm.yriwfgw.ug.cgV.b,grw
mrwgjxrszfigzryagYifgfmrwgtigxrvmfib,gyifgfmigwjxruvg .digf.gmrd,gfmi
d.xuruvgxrwig.sixgmrwg .q m,gzubgmighryygc.xwzpigmrwgviuix.qw
 .djzur.uwghrfm.qfgzj.y.vnagDngio qwigc.xgu.fgyi fqxruvgzvzruwfgfmigqwi
.cgf.tz  .grw,gfmzfgRguisixg mihibgrf;gfmzfgrwgzgjiuzyfnghmr mgxic.xdib
f.tz  .- mihixwgmzsigf.gjzn;gfm.qvmgfmixigzxigfmruvwgiu.qvmgRgmzsi
 mihib,ghmr mgRg .qybgyi fqxigzvzruwfagRcgn.qgwm.qybgisixgtigtifxznib
ruf.gzung.cgfmiwigjmryzufmx.jriw,gb.gu.fgyifgn.qxgyicfgmzubgpu.hghmzf
n.qxgxrvmfgmzubgb.iw,gc.xgrfgrwgu.fgh.xfmgpu.hruvagXiw qigfmigbx.huruv
zubgfrign.qxgwm.i-wfxruvwagFzpign.qxgfrdi,gzubgwifgzt.qfgw.digcxii
yzt.xa

.qxgdzuuixwgmzsigtiiug .xxqjfibgtng .ddqur zfr.ughrfmgfmigwzrufwag.qx
mndu-t..pwgxiw.qubghrfmgzgdiy.br.qwg qxwruvg.cgV.bgzubgiubqxruvgmrd
c.xisixag.uigh.qybgwzngfmzfgisiugfmigjx.jmifwgzubgxibiidixwgmzbgxzfmix
 .uw.yibgfmigcizxwgfmzug .ucrxdibgfmigm.jiwg.cgdzuagFmixigrwgu.hmixi
xi .xbibgzgwrdjyigzubgrxxijxiwwrtyigwzfrwcz fr.ughrfmgfmigvrcfg.cgyrci,
zungdid.xztyigjxzrwig.cgV.bagZyygmizyfmgzubgwq  iwwgb.iwgdigv..b,
m.hisixgczxg.ccgzubghrfmbxzhugrfgdzngzjjizx;gzyygbrwizwigzubgczryqxi
miyjwgf.gdzpigdigwzbgzubgb.iwgdigisry,gm.hisixgdq mgwndjzfmngrfgdzn
mzsighrfmgdig.xgRghrfmgrfagRc,gfmiu,ghigh.qybgrubiibgxiwf.xigdzuprubgtn
fxqyngRubrzu,gt.fzur ,gdzvuifr ,g.xguzfqxzygdizuw,gyifgqwgcrxwfgtigzw
wrdjyigzubghiyygzwgUzfqxig.qxwiysiw,gbrwjiygfmig y.qbwghmr mgmzuvg.six
.qxg.hugtx.hw,gzubgfzpigqjgzgyrffyigyrcigruf.g.qxgj.xiwagB.gu.fgwfzngf.
tigzug.sixwiixg.cgfmigj..x,gtqfgiubizs.xgf.gti .dig.uig.cgfmigh.xfmriw
.cgfmigh.xyba

RgxizbgrugfmigVqyrwfzu,g.xgCy.hixgVzxbiu,g.cgWmirpgWzbrg.cgWmrxze,gfmzf
“Fmingzwpibgzghrwigdzu,gwznruv;g.cgfmigdzung iyitxzfibgfxiiwghmr mgfmi
D.wfgMrvmgV.bgmzwg xizfibgy.cfngzubgqdtxzvi.qw,gfming zyygu.uigzezb,g.x
cxii,gio ijfruvgfmig njxiww,ghmr mgtizxwgu.gcxqrf;ghmzfgdnwfixngrw
fmixigrugfmrw?gMigxijyrib;gIz mgmzwgrfwgzjjx.jxrzfigjx.bq i,gzub
zjj.rufibgwizw.u,gbqxruvgfmig .ufruqzu ig.cghmr mgrfgrwgcxiwmgzub
ty..druv,gzubgbqxruvgfmirxgztwiu igbxngzubghrfmixib;gf.guirfmixg.c
hmr mgwfzfiwgrwgfmig njxiwwgioj.wib,gtiruvgzyhznwgcy.qxrwmruv;gzubg.c
fmrwguzfqxigzxigfmigzezbw,g.xgxiyrvr.qwgrubijiubiufwa—Crogu.fgfmngmizxf
.ugfmzfghmr mgrwgfxzuwrf.xn;gc.xgfmigBrkyzm,g.xgFrvxrw,ghryyg .ufruqi
f.gcy.hgfmx.qvmgTzvbzbgzcfixgfmigxz ig.cg zyrjmwgrwgiofru f:grcgfmn
mzubgmzwgjyiufn,gtigyrtixzygzwgfmigbzfigfxii;gtqfgrcgrfgzcc.xbwgu.fmruv
f.gvrsigzhzn,gtigzugzezb,g.xgcxiigdzu,gyrpigfmig njxiwwa”

ggggg .DJYIDIUFZYgSIXWIW

gggggFmigJxifiuwr.uwg.cgJ.sixfn

ggggg“Fm.qgb.wfgjxiwqdigf..gdq m,gj..xguiibnghxif m,
gggggF.g yzrdgzgwfzfr.ugrugfmigcrxdzdiuf
gggggTi zqwigfmngmqdtyig .ffzvi,g.xgfmngfqt,
gggggUqxwiwgw.digyzeng.xgjibzufr gsrxfqi
gggggRugfmig mizjgwquwmruig.xgtngwmzbngwjxruvw,
gggggHrfmgx..fwgzubgj.f-mixtw;ghmixigfmngxrvmfgmzub,
gggggFizxruvgfm.wigmqdzuigjzwwr.uwgcx.dgfmigdrub,
gggggQj.ughm.wigwf. pwgczrxgty..druvgsrxfqiwgcy.qxrwm,
gggggBivxzbifmguzfqxi,gzubgtiuqdtifmgwiuwi,
gggggZub,gV.xv.u-yrpi,gfqxuwgz frsigdiugf.gwf.uia
gggggHigu.fgxilqrxigfmigbqyygw. rifn
ggggg.cgn.qxgui iwwrfzfibgfidjixzu i,
ggggg.xgfmzfgquuzfqxzygwfqjrbrfn
gggggFmzfgpu.hwgu.xgk.ngu.xgw.xx.h;gu.xgn.qxgc.x ’b
gggggCzywiyngiozyfibgjzwwrsigc.xfrfqbi
gggggZt.sigfmigz frsiagFmrwgy.hgztki fgtx..b,
gggggFmzfgcrogfmirxgwizfwgrugdibr. xrfn,
gggggTi .dign.qxgwixsryigdrubw;gtqfghigzbszu i
gggggWq mgsrxfqiwg.uyngzwgzbdrfgio iww,
gggggTxzsi,gt.qufi.qwgz fw,gxivzygdzvurcr iu i,
gggggZyy-wiiruvgjxqbiu i,gdzvuzurdrfn
gggggFmzfgpu.hwgu.gt.qub,gzubgfmzfgmix.r gsrxfqi
gggggC.xghmr mgzufrlqrfngmzfmgyicfgu.guzdi,
gggggTqfgjzffixuwg.uyn,gwq mgzwgMix qyiw,
gggggZ mryyiw,gFmiwiqwagTz pgf.gfmngy.zfm’bg iyy;
gggggZubghmiugfm.qgwiiwfgfmiguihgiuyrvmfiuibgwjmixi,
gggggWfqbngf.gpu.hgtqfghmzfgfm.wigh.xfmriwghixia”
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggFag ZXIH


HmixigRgYrsib,gzubgHmzfgRgYrsibgC.x

Zfgzg ixfzrugwizw.ug.cg.qxgyrcighigzxigz  qwf.dibgf.g .uwrbixgisixn
wj.fgzwgfmigj.wwrtyigwrfig.cgzgm.qwiagRgmzsigfmqwgwqxsinibgfmig .qufxn
.ugisixngwrbighrfmrugzgb.eiugdryiwg.cghmixigRgyrsiagRugrdzvruzfr.ugR
mzsigt.qvmfgzyygfmigczxdwgrugwq  iwwr.u,gc.xgzyyghixigf.gtigt.qvmf,gzub
Rgpuihgfmirxgjxr iagRghzypibg.sixgiz mgczxdix’wgjxidrwiw,gfzwfibgmrw
hrybgzjjyiw,gbrw .qxwibg.ugmqwtzubxnghrfmgmrd,gf..pgmrwgczxdgzfgmrw
jxr i,gzfgzungjxr i,gd.xfvzvruvgrfgf.gmrdgrugdngdrub;gisiugjqfgzgmrvmix
jxr ig.ugrf,—f..pgisixnfmruvgtqfgzgbiibg.cgrf,—f..pgmrwgh.xbgc.xgmrw
biib,gc.xgRgbizxyngy.sigf.gfzyp,— qyfrszfibgrf,gzubgmrdgf..gf.gw.di
iofiuf,gRgfxqwf,gzubghrfmbxihghmiugRgmzbgiuk.nibgrfgy.uvgiu.qvm,
yizsruvgmrdgf.g zxxngrfg.uagFmrwgiojixriu igiufrfyibgdigf.gtigxivzxbib
zwgzgw.xfg.cgxizy-iwfzfigtx.pixgtngdngcxriubwagHmixisixgRgwzf,gfmixigR
drvmfgyrsi,gzubgfmigyzubw zjigxzbrzfibgcx.dgdigz  .xbruvynagHmzfgrwgz
m.qwigtqfgzg_wibiw_,gzgwizf?—tiffixgrcgzg .qufxngwizfagRgbrw .sixib
dzungzgwrfigc.xgzgm.qwigu.fgyrpiyngf.gtigw..ugrdjx.sib,ghmr mgw.di
drvmfgmzsigfm.qvmfgf..gczxgcx.dgfmigsryyzvi,gtqfgf.gdnginiwgfmigsryyzvi
hzwgf..gczxgcx.dgrfagHiyy,gfmixigRgdrvmfgyrsi,gRgwzrb;gzubgfmixigRgbrb
yrsi,gc.xgzugm.qx,gzgwqddixgzubgzghrufixgyrci;gwzhgm.hgRg .qybgyifgfmi
nizxwgxqug.cc,gtqccifgfmighrufixgfmx.qvm,gzubgwiigfmigwjxruvg .digrua
Fmigcqfqxigrumztrfzufwg.cgfmrwgxivr.u,ghmixisixgfmingdzngjyz igfmirx
m.qwiw,gdzngtigwqxigfmzfgfmingmzsigtiiugzufr rjzfibagZugzcfixu..u
wqccr ibgf.gyzng.qfgfmigyzubgruf.g.x mzxb,gh..by.f,gzubgjzwfqxi,gzubgf.
bi rbighmzfgcruig.zpwg.xgjruiwgwm.qybgtigyicfgf.gwfzubgtic.xigfmigb..x,
zubghmiu igiz mgtyzwfibgfxiig .qybgtigwiiugf.gfmigtiwfgzbszufzvi;gzub
fmiugRgyifgrfgyri,gczyy.hgjix mzu i,gc.xgzgdzugrwgxr mgrugjx.j.xfr.ugf.
fmiguqdtixg.cgfmruvwghmr mgmig zugzcc.xbgf.gyifgzy.uia

Dngrdzvruzfr.ug zxxribgdigw.gczxgfmzfgRgisiugmzbgfmigxicqwzyg.cgwisixzy
czxdw,—fmigxicqwzyghzwgzyygRghzufib,—tqfgRguisixgv.fgdngcruvixwgtqxuib
tngz fqzygj.wwiwwr.uagFmiguizxiwfgfmzfgRg zdigf.gz fqzygj.wwiwwr.ughzw
hmiugRgt.qvmfgfmigM.yy.hiyygjyz i,gzubgmzbgtivqugf.gw.xfgdngwiibw,gzub
 .yyi fibgdzfixrzywghrfmghmr mgf.gdzpigzghmiiytzxx.hgf.g zxxngrfg.ug.x
.ccghrfm;gtqfgtic.xigfmig.huixgvzsigdigzgbiibg.cgrf,gmrwghrci—isixngdzu
mzwgwq mgzghrci— mzuvibgmixgdrubgzubghrwmibgf.gpiijgrf,gzubgmig.ccixib
digfiugb.yyzxwgf.gxiyizwigmrdagU.h,gf.gwjizpgfmigfxqfm,gRgmzbgtqfgfiu
 iufwgrugfmigh.xyb,gzubgrfgwqxjzwwibgdngzxrfmdifr gf.gfiyy,grcgRghzw
fmzfgdzughm.gmzbgfiug iufw,g.xghm.gmzbgzgczxd,g.xgfiugb.yyzxw,g.xgzyy
f.vifmixagM.hisix,gRgyifgmrdgpiijgfmigfiugb.yyzxwgzubgfmigczxdgf..,gc.x
Rgmzbg zxxribgrfgczxgiu.qvm;g.xgxzfmix,gf.gtigviuix.qw,gRgw.ybgmrdgfmi
czxdgc.xgkqwfghmzfgRgvzsigc.xgrf,gzub,gzwgmighzwgu.fgzgxr mgdzu,gdzbi
mrdgzgjxiwiufg.cgfiugb.yyzxw,gzubgwfryygmzbgdngfiug iufw,gzubgwiibw,
zubgdzfixrzywgc.xgzghmiiytzxx.hgyicfagRgc.qubgfmqwgfmzfgRgmzbgtiiugz
xr mgdzughrfm.qfgzungbzdzvigf.gdngj.sixfnagTqfgRgxifzruibgfmi
yzubw zji,gzubgRgmzsigwru igzuuqzyyng zxxribg.ccghmzfgrfgnriybib
hrfm.qfgzghmiiytzxx.hagHrfmgxiwji fgf.gyzubw zjiw,—

ggggg“Rgzdgd.uzx mg.cgzyygRg_wqxsin_,
gggggDngxrvmfgfmixigrwgu.uigf.gbrwjqfia”

Rgmzsigcxilqiufyngwiiugzgj.ifghrfmbxzh,gmzsruvgiuk.nibgfmigd.wf
szyqztyigjzxfg.cgzgczxd,ghmryigfmig xqwfngczxdixgwqjj.wibgfmzfgmigmzb
v.fgzgcihghrybgzjjyiwg.uynagHmn,gfmig.huixgb.iwgu.fgpu.hgrfgc.xgdzun
nizxwghmiugzgj.ifgmzwgjqfgmrwgczxdgrugxmndi,gfmigd.wfgzbdrxztyigprubg.c
rusrwrtyigciu i,gmzwgczrxyngrdj.qubibgrf,gdrypibgrf,gwprddibgrf,gzub
v.fgzyygfmig xizd,gzubgyicfgfmigczxdixg.uyngfmigwprddibgdrypa

Fmigxizygzffxz fr.uwg.cgfmigM.yy.hiyygczxd,gf.gdi,ghixi;grfwg .djyifi
xifrxidiuf,gtiruv,gzt.qfgfh.gdryiwgcx.dgfmigsryyzvi,gmzycgzgdryigcx.d
fmiguizxiwfguirvmt.x,gzubgwijzxzfibgcx.dgfmigmrvmhzngtngzgtx.zbgcriyb;
rfwgt.qubruvg.ugfmigxrsix,ghmr mgfmig.huixgwzrbgjx.fi fibgrfgtngrfw
c.vwgcx.dgcx.wfwgrugfmigwjxruv,gfm.qvmgfmzfghzwgu.fmruvgf.gdi;gfmigvxzn
 .y.xgzubgxqru.qwgwfzfig.cgfmigm.qwigzubgtzxu,gzubgfmigbryzjrbzfib
ciu iw,ghmr mgjqfgwq mgzugrufixszygtifhiiugdigzubgfmigyzwfg.  qjzuf;
fmigm.yy.hgzubgyr miu- .sixibgzjjyigfxiiw,gvuzhibgtngxzttrfw,gwm.hruv
hmzfgprubg.cguirvmt.xwgRgwm.qybgmzsi;gtqfgzt.sigzyy,gfmigxi .yyi fr.ugR
mzbg.cgrfgcx.dgdngizxyriwfgs.nzviwgqjgfmigxrsix,ghmiugfmigm.qwighzw
 .u izyibgtimrubgzgbiuwigvx.sig.cgxibgdzjyiw,gfmx.qvmghmr mgRgmizxbgfmi
m.qwi-b.vgtzxpagRghzwgrugmzwfigf.gtqngrf,gtic.xigfmigjx.jxrif.x
crurwmibgviffruvg.qfgw.digx. pw,g qffruvgb.hugfmigm.yy.hgzjjyigfxiiw,
zubgvxqttruvgqjgw.dign.quvgtrx miwghmr mgmzbgwjxquvgqjgrugfmigjzwfqxi,
.x,grugwm.xf,gmzbgdzbigzungd.xig.cgmrwgrdjx.sidiufwagF.giuk.ngfmiwi
zbszufzviwgRghzwgxizbngf.g zxxngrfg.u;gyrpigZfyzw,gf.gfzpigfmigh.xybg.u
dngwm.qybixw,—Rguisixgmizxbghmzfg .djiuwzfr.ugmigxi irsibgc.xgfmzf,—zub
b.gzyygfm.wigfmruvwghmr mgmzbgu.g.fmixgd.frsig.xgio qwigtqfgfmzfgR
drvmfgjzngc.xgrfgzubgtigqud.yiwfibgrugdngj.wwiwwr.ug.cgrf;gc.xgRgpuih
zyygfmighmryigfmzfgrfgh.qybgnriybgfmigd.wfgztqubzufg x.jg.cgfmigprubgR
hzufibgrcgRg .qybg.uyngzcc.xbgf.gyifgrfgzy.uiagTqfgrfgfqxuibg.qfgzwgR
mzsigwzrba

ZyygfmzfgRg .qybgwzn,gfmiu,ghrfmgxiwji fgf.gczxdruvg.ugzgyzxvigw zyi,
(Rgmzsigzyhznwg qyfrszfibgzgvzxbiu,)ghzw,gfmzfgRgmzbgmzbgdngwiibw
xizbnagDzungfmrupgfmzfgwiibwgrdjx.sighrfmgzviagRgmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzf
frdigbrw xrdruzfiwgtifhiiugfmigv..bgzubgfmigtzb;gzubghmiugzfgyzwfgR
wmzyygjyzuf,gRgwmzyygtigyiwwgyrpiyngf.gtigbrwzjj.rufibagTqfgRgh.qybgwzn
f.gdngciyy.hw,g.u igc.xgzyy,gZwgy.uvgzwgj.wwrtyigyrsigcxiigzub
qu .ddrffibagRfgdzpiwgtqfgyrffyigbrccixiu ighmifmixgn.qgzxig .ddrffib
f.gzgczxdg.xgfmig .qufngkzrya

.ybg zf.,ghm.wig“BigXigXqwfr â”grwgdng“ qyfrszf.x,”gwznw,gzubgfmig.uyn
fxzuwyzfr.ugRgmzsigwiiugdzpiwgwmiixgu.uwiuwig.cgfmigjzwwzvi,g“Hmiugn.q
fmrupg.cgviffruvgzgczxd,gfqxugrfgfmqwgrugn.qxgdrub,gu.fgf.gtqn
vxiibryn;gu.xgwjzxign.qxgjzruwgf.gy..pgzfgrf,gzubgb.gu.fgfmrupgrf
iu.qvmgf.gv.gx.qubgrfg.u iagFmig.cfiuixgn.qgv.gfmixigfmigd.xigrfghryy
jyizwign.q,grcgrfgrwgv..ba”gRgfmrupgRgwmzyygu.fgtqngvxiibryn,gtqfgv.
x.qubgzubgx.qubgrfgzwgy.uvgzwgRgyrsi,gzubgtigtqxribgrugrfgcrxwf,gfmzf
rfgdzngjyizwigdigfmigd.xigzfgyzwfa



Fmigjxiwiufghzwgdnguiofgiojixrdiufg.cgfmrwgprub,ghmr mgRgjqxj.wigf.
biw xrtigd.xigzfgyiuvfm;gc.xg .usiuriu i,gjqffruvgfmigiojixriu ig.cgfh.
nizxwgruf.g.uiagZwgRgmzsigwzrb,gRgb.gu.fgjx.j.wigf.ghxrfigzug.bigf.
biki fr.u,gtqfgf.gtxzvgzwgyqwfryngzwg mzufr yiixgrugfmigd.xuruv,
wfzubruvg.ugmrwgx..wf,grcg.uyngf.ghzpigdnguirvmt.xwgqja

HmiugcrxwfgRgf..pgqjgdngzt.bigrugfmigh..bw,gfmzfgrw,gtivzugf.gwjiubgdn
urvmfwgzwghiyygzwgbznwgfmixi,ghmr m,gtngz  rbiuf,ghzwg.ugRubijiubiu i
Bzn,g.xgfmigC.qxfmg.cgKqyn,g1845,gdngm.qwighzwgu.fgcrurwmibgc.xghrufix,
tqfghzwgdixiyngzgbiciu igzvzruwfgfmigxzru,ghrfm.qfgjyzwfixruvg.x
 mrduin,gfmighzyywgtiruvg.cgx.qvm,ghizfmix-wfzruibgt.zxbw,ghrfmghrbi
 mrupw,ghmr mgdzbigrfg ..ygzfgurvmfagFmigqjxrvmfghmrfigmihugwfqbwgzub
cxiwmyngjyzuibgb..xgzubghrub.hg zwruvwgvzsigrfgzg yizugzubgzrxngy..p,
iwji rzyyngrugfmigd.xuruv,ghmiugrfwgfrdtixwghixigwzfqxzfibghrfmgbih,gw.
fmzfgRgczu ribgfmzfgtngu..ugw.digwhiifgvqdgh.qybgioqbigcx.dgfmidagF.gdn
rdzvruzfr.ugrfgxifzruibgfmx.qvm.qfgfmigbzngd.xig.xgyiwwg.cgfmrwgzqx.xzy
 mzxz fix,gxidrubruvgdig.cgzg ixfzrugm.qwig.ugzgd.qufzrughmr mgRgmzb
srwrfibgfmignizxgtic.xiagFmrwghzwgzugzrxngzubgqujyzwfixibg ztru,gcrfgf.
iufixfzrugzgfxzsiyyruvgv.b,gzubghmixigzgv.bbiwwgdrvmfgfxzrygmix
vzxdiufwagFmighrubwghmr mgjzwwibg.sixgdngbhiyyruvghixigwq mgzwgwhiij
.sixgfmigxrbviwg.cgd.qufzruw,gtizxruvgfmigtx.piugwfxzruw,g.xg iyiwfrzy
jzxfwg.uyn,g.cgfixxiwfxrzygdqwr agFmigd.xuruvghrubgc.xisixgty.hw,gfmi
j.idg.cg xizfr.ugrwgqurufixxqjfib;gtqfgcihgzxigfmigizxwgfmzfgmizxgrfa
.yndjqwgrwgtqfgfmig.qfwrbig.cgfmigizxfmgisixnghmixia

Fmig.uyngm.qwigRgmzbgtiiugfmig.huixg.cgtic.xi,grcgRgio ijfgzgt.zf,ghzw
zgfiuf,ghmr mgRgqwibg.  zwr.uzyynghmiugdzpruvgio qxwr.uwgrugfmigwqddix,
zubgfmrwgrwgwfryygx.yyibgqjgrugdngvzxxif;gtqfgfmigt.zf,gzcfixgjzwwruv
cx.dgmzubgf.gmzub,gmzwgv.uigb.hugfmigwfxizdg.cgfrdiagHrfmgfmrwgd.xi
wqtwfzufrzygwmiyfixgzt.qfgdi,gRgmzbgdzbigw.digjx.vxiwwgf.hzxbgwiffyruv
rugfmigh.xybagFmrwgcxzdi,gw.gwyrvmfyng yzb,ghzwgzgw.xfg.c
 xnwfzyyrezfr.ugzx.qubgdi,gzubgxiz fibg.ugfmigtqrybixagRfghzw
wqvviwfrsigw.dihmzfgzwgzgjr fqxigrug.qfyruiwagRgbrbgu.fguiibgf.gv.
.qfb..xwgf.gfzpigfmigzrx,gc.xgfmigzfd.wjmixighrfmrugmzbgy.wfgu.uig.c
rfwgcxiwmuiwwagRfghzwgu.fgw.gdq mghrfmrugb..xwgzwgtimrubgzgb..xghmixigR
wzf,gisiugrugfmigxzruriwfghizfmixagFmigMzxrszuwzgwznw,g“Zugzt.bi
hrfm.qfgtrxbwgrwgyrpigzgdizfghrfm.qfgwizw.uruva”gWq mghzwgu.fgdngzt.bi,
c.xgRgc.qubgdnwiycgwqbbiuynguirvmt.xgf.gfmigtrxbw;gu.fgtngmzsruv
rdjxrw.uibg.ui,gtqfgmzsruvg zvibgdnwiycguizxgfmidagRghzwgu.fg.uyn
uizxixgf.gw.dig.cgfm.wighmr mg .dd.uyngcxilqiufgfmigvzxbiugzubgfmi
.x mzxb,gtqfgf.gfm.wighrybixgzubgd.xigfmxryyruvgw.uvwfixwg.cgfmigc.xiwf
hmr mguisix,g.xgxzxiyn,gwixiuzbigzgsryyzvix,—fmigh..b-fmxqwm,gfmi
siixn,gfmigw zxyifgfzuzvix,gfmigcriyb-wjzxx.h,gfmighmrjj..xhryy,gzub
dzung.fmixwa

Rghzwgwizfibgtngfmigwm.xig.cgzgwdzyygj.ub,gzt.qfgzgdryigzubgzgmzyc
w.qfmg.cgfmigsryyzvig.cg .u .xbgzubgw.dihmzfgmrvmixgfmzugrf,grugfmi
drbwfg.cgzugiofiuwrsigh..bgtifhiiugfmzfgf.hugzubgYru .yu,gzubgzt.qfgfh.
dryiwgw.qfmg.cgfmzfg.qxg.uyngcriybgpu.hugf.gczdi,g .u .xbgTzffyi
Vx.qub;gtqfgRghzwgw.gy.hgrugfmigh..bwgfmzfgfmig.jj.wrfigwm.xi,gmzycgz
dryig.cc,gyrpigfmigxiwf,g .sixibghrfmgh..b,ghzwgdngd.wfgbrwfzuf
m.xre.uagC.xgfmigcrxwfghiip,ghmiuisixgRgy..pibg.qfg.ugfmigj.ubgrf
rdjxiwwibgdigyrpigzgfzxugmrvmgqjg.ugfmigwrbig.cgzgd.qufzru,grfwgt.ff.d
czxgzt.sigfmigwqxcz ig.cg.fmixgyzpiw,gzub,gzwgfmigwqugzx.wi,gRgwzhgrf
fmx.hruvg.ccgrfwgurvmfyng y.fmruvg.cgdrwf,gzubgmixigzubgfmixi,gtn
bivxiiw,grfwgw.cfgxrjjyiwg.xgrfwgwd..fmgxicyi fruvgwqxcz ighzw
xisizyib,ghmryigfmigdrwfw,gyrpigvm.wfw,ghixigwfizyfmrynghrfmbxzhruvgru
isixngbrxi fr.ugruf.gfmigh..bw,gzwgzfgfmigtxizpruvgqjg.cgw.digu. fqxuzy
 .usiufr yiagFmigsixngbihgwiidibgf.gmzuvgqj.ugfmigfxiiwgyzfixgruf.gfmi
bzngfmzugqwqzy,gzwg.ugfmigwrbiwg.cgd.qufzruwa

Fmrwgwdzyygyzpighzwg.cgd.wfgszyqigzwgzguirvmt.xgrugfmigrufixszywg.cgz
viufyigxzrugwf.xdgrugZqvqwf,ghmiu,gt.fmgzrxgzubghzfixgtiruvgjixci fyn
wfryy,gtqfgfmigwpng.six zwf,gdrb-zcfixu..ugmzbgzyygfmigwixiurfng.c
isiuruv,gzubgfmigh..b-fmxqwmgwzuvgzx.qub,gzubghzwgmizxbgcx.dgwm.xigf.
wm.xiagZgyzpigyrpigfmrwgrwguisixgwd..fmixgfmzugzfgwq mgzgfrdi;gzubgfmi
 yizxgj.xfr.ug.cgfmigzrxgzt.sigrfgtiruvgwmzyy.hgzubgbzxpiuibgtng y.qbw,
fmighzfix,gcqyyg.cgyrvmfgzubgxicyi fr.uw,gti .diwgzgy.hixgmizsiugrfwiyc
w.gdq mgfmigd.xigrdj.xfzufagCx.dgzgmryygf.jguizxgtn,ghmixigfmigh..bgmzb
tiiugxi iufyng qfg.cc,gfmixighzwgzgjyizwruvgsrwfzgw.qfmhzxbgz x.wwgfmi
j.ub,gfmx.qvmgzghrbigrubiufzfr.ugrugfmigmryywghmr mgc.xdgfmigwm.xi
fmixi,ghmixigfmirxg.jj.wrfigwrbiwgwy.jruvgf.hzxbgiz mg.fmixgwqvviwfibgz
wfxizdgcy.hruvg.qfgrugfmzfgbrxi fr.ugfmx.qvmgzgh..bibgszyyin,gtqf
wfxizdgfmixighzwgu.uiagFmzfghzngRgy..pibgtifhiiugzubg.sixgfmiguizx
vxiiugmryywgf.gw.digbrwfzufgzubgmrvmixg.uiwgrugfmigm.xre.u,gfruvibghrfm
tyqiagRubiib,gtngwfzubruvg.ugfrjf.igRg .qybg zf mgzgvyrdjwig.cgw.dig.c
fmigjizpwg.cgfmigwfryygtyqixgzubgd.xigbrwfzufgd.qufzrugxzuviwgrugfmi
u.xfm-hiwf,gfm.wigfxqi-tyqig .ruwgcx.dgmizsiu’wg.hugdruf,gzubgzyw.g.c
w.digj.xfr.ug.cgfmigsryyzviagTqfgrug.fmixgbrxi fr.uw,gisiugcx.dgfmrw
j.ruf,gRg .qybgu.fgwiig.sixg.xgtin.ubgfmigh..bwghmr mgwqxx.qubibgdiagRf
rwghiyygf.gmzsigw.dighzfixgrugn.qxguirvmt.xm..b,gf.gvrsigtq.nzu ngf.
zubgcy.zfgfmigizxfmag.uigszyqigisiug.cgfmigwdzyyiwfghiyygrw,gfmzfghmiu
n.qgy..pgruf.grfgn.qgwiigfmzfgizxfmgrwgu.fg .ufruiufgtqfgruwqyzxagFmrw
rwgzwgrdj.xfzufgzwgfmzfgrfgpiijwgtqffixg ..yagHmiugRgy..pibgz x.wwgfmi
j.ubgcx.dgfmrwgjizpgf.hzxbgfmigWqbtqxngdizb.hw,ghmr mgrugfrdig.cgcy..b
Rgbrwfruvqrwmibgiyiszfibgjixmzjwgtngzgdrxzvigrugfmirxgwiifmruvgszyyin,
yrpigzg .rugrugzgtzwru,gzyygfmigizxfmgtin.ubgfmigj.ubgzjjizxibgyrpigz
fmrug xqwfgruwqyzfibgzubgcy.zfibgisiugtngfmrwgwdzyygwmiifg.c
rufixsixfruvghzfix,gzubgRghzwgxidrubibgfmzfgfmrwg.ughmr mgRgbhiyfghzw
tqfg_bxngyzub_a

Fm.qvmgfmigsrihgcx.dgdngb..xghzwgwfryygd.xig .ufxz fib,gRgbrbgu.fgciiy
 x.hbibg.xg .ucruibgrugfmigyizwfagFmixighzwgjzwfqxigiu.qvmgc.xgdn
rdzvruzfr.uagFmigy.hgwmxqt-.zpgjyzfizqgf.ghmr mgfmig.jj.wrfigwm.xi
zx.wi,gwfxif mibgzhzngf.hzxbgfmigjxzrxriwg.cgfmigHiwfgzubgfmigwfijjiw
.cgFzxfzxn,gzcc.xbruvgzdjyigx..dgc.xgzyygfmigx.sruvgczdryriwg.cgdiua
“Fmixigzxigu.uigmzjjngrugfmigh.xybgtqfgtiruvwghm.giuk.ngcxiiyngzgszwf
m.xre.u,”—wzrbgBzd.bzxz,ghmiugmrwgmixbwgxilqrxibguihgzubgyzxvix
jzwfqxiwa

T.fmgjyz igzubgfrdighixig mzuvib,gzubgRgbhiyfguizxixgf.gfm.wigjzxfwg.c
fmigqursixwigzubgf.gfm.wigixzwgrugmrwf.xnghmr mgmzbgd.wfgzffxz fibgdia
HmixigRgyrsibghzwgzwgczxg.ccgzwgdzungzgxivr.ugsrihibgurvmfyngtn
zwfx.u.dixwagHigzxigh.ufgf.grdzvruigxzxigzubgbiyi fztyigjyz iwgrugw.di
xid.figzubgd.xig iyiwfrzyg .xuixg.cgfmigwnwfid,gtimrubgfmi
 .uwfiyyzfr.ug.cg zwwr.jirz’wg mzrx,gczxgcx.dgu.rwigzubgbrwfqxtzu iagR
brw .sixibgfmzfgdngm.qwigz fqzyyngmzbgrfwgwrfigrugwq mgzghrfmbxzhu,gtqf
c.xisixguihgzubgqujx.czuib,gjzxfg.cgfmigqursixwiagRcgrfghixigh.xfmgfmi
hmryigf.gwiffyigrugfm.wigjzxfwguizxgf.gfmigJyirzbiwg.xgfmigMnzbiw,gf.
Zybitzxzug.xgZyfzrx,gfmiugRghzwgxizyyngfmixi,g.xgzfgzugilqzygxid.fiuiww
cx.dgfmigyrcighmr mgRgmzbgyicfgtimrub,gbhrubyibgzubgfhrupyruvghrfmgzw
cruigzgxzngf.gdnguizxiwfguirvmt.x,gzubgf.gtigwiiug.uyngrugd..uyiww
urvmfwgtngmrdagWq mghzwgfmzfgjzxfg.cg xizfr.ughmixigRgmzbgwlqzffib;—

ggggg“Fmixighzwgzgwmijmixbgfmzfgbrbgyrsi,
gggggggggZubgmiybgmrwgfm.qvmfwgzwgmrvm
gggggZwghixigfmigd.qufwghmixi.ugmrwgcy. pw
gggggggggBrbgm.qxyngciibgmrdgtna”

Hmzfgwm.qybghigfmrupg.cgfmigwmijmixb’wgyrcigrcgmrwgcy. pwgzyhznw
hzubixibgf.gmrvmixgjzwfqxiwgfmzugmrwgfm.qvmfw?

Isixngd.xuruvghzwgzg miixcqygrusrfzfr.ugf.gdzpigdngyrcig.cgilqzy
wrdjyr rfn,gzubgRgdzngwzngruu. iu i,ghrfmgUzfqxigmixwiycagRgmzsigtiiu
zwgwru ixigzgh.xwmrjjixg.cgZqx.xzgzwgfmigVxiipwagRgv.fgqjgizxyngzub
tzfmibgrugfmigj.ub;gfmzfghzwgzgxiyrvr.qwgioix rwi,gzubg.uig.cgfmigtiwf
fmruvwghmr mgRgbrbagFmingwzngfmzfg mzxz fixwghixigiuvxzsiug.ugfmi
tzfmruvgfqtg.cgpruvgF mruv-fmzuvgf.gfmrwgicci f:g“Xiuihgfmnwiyc
 .djyifiyngiz mgbzn;gb.grfgzvzru,gzubgzvzru,gzubgc.xisixgzvzrua”gRg zu
qubixwfzubgfmzfagD.xuruvgtxruvwgtz pgfmigmix.r gzviwagRghzwgzwgdq m
zcci fibgtngfmigczrufgmqdg.cgzgd.wlqrf.gdzpruvgrfwgrusrwrtyigzub
qurdzvruztyigf.qxgfmx.qvmgdngzjzxfdiufgzfgizxyriwfgbzhu,ghmiugRghzw
wrffruvghrfmgb..xgzubghrub.hwg.jiu,gzwgRg .qybgtigtngzungfxqdjifgfmzf
isixgwzuvg.cgczdiagRfghzwgM.dix’wgxilqrid;grfwiycgzugRyrzbgzubg.bnwwin
rugfmigzrx,gwruvruvgrfwg.hughxzfmgzubghzubixruvwagFmixighzwgw.difmruv
 .wdr zygzt.qfgrf;gzgwfzubruvgzbsixfrwidiuf,gfryygc.xtrbbiu,g.cgfmi
isixyzwfruvgsrv.xgzubgcixfryrfng.cgfmigh.xybagFmigd.xuruv,ghmr mgrwgfmi
d.wfgdid.xztyigwizw.ug.cgfmigbzn,grwgfmigzhzpiuruvgm.qxagFmiugfmixigrw
yizwfgw.du.yiu igrugqw;gzubgc.xgzugm.qx,gzfgyizwf,gw.digjzxfg.cgqw
zhzpiwghmr mgwyqdtixwgzyygfmigxiwfg.cgfmigbzngzubgurvmfagYrffyigrwgf.
tigioji fibg.cgfmzfgbzn,grcgrfg zugtig zyyibgzgbzn,gf.ghmr mghigzxigu.f
zhzpiuibgtng.qxgViurqw,gtqfgtngfmigdi mzur zyguqbvruvwg.cgw.di
wixsrf.x,gzxigu.fgzhzpiuibgtng.qxg.huguihyn-z lqrxibgc.x igzub
zwjrxzfr.uwgcx.dghrfmru,gz  .djzuribgtngfmigqubqyzfr.uwg.cg iyiwfrzy
dqwr ,gruwfizbg.cgcz f.xngtiyyw,gzubgzgcxzvxzu igcryyruvgfmigzrx—f.gz
mrvmixgyrcigfmzughigciyygzwyiijgcx.d;gzubgfmqwgfmigbzxpuiwwgtizxgrfw
cxqrf,gzubgjx.sigrfwiycgf.gtigv..b,gu.gyiwwgfmzugfmigyrvmfagFmzfgdzu
hm.gb.iwgu.fgtiyrisigfmzfgiz mgbzng .ufzruwgzugizxyrix,gd.xigwz xib,
zubgzqx.xzygm.qxgfmzugmigmzwgnifgjx.czuib,gmzwgbiwjzrxibg.cgyrci,gzub
rwgjqxwqruvgzgbiw iubruvgzubgbzxpiuruvghznagZcfixgzgjzxfrzyg iwwzfr.u
.cgmrwgwiuwq.qwgyrci,gfmigw.qyg.cgdzu,g.xgrfwg.xvzuwgxzfmix,gzxi
xirusrv.xzfibgiz mgbzn,gzubgmrwgViurqwgfxriwgzvzrughmzfgu.tyigyrcigrf
 zugdzpiagZyygdid.xztyigisiufw,gRgwm.qybgwzn,gfxzuwjrxigrugd.xuruvgfrdi
zubgrugzgd.xuruvgzfd.wjmixiagFmigSibzwgwzn,g“Zyygrufiyyrviu iwgzhzpi
hrfmgfmigd.xuruva”gJ.ifxngzubgzxf,gzubgfmigczrxiwfgzubgd.wfgdid.xztyi
.cgfmigz fr.uwg.cgdiu,gbzfigcx.dgwq mgzugm.qxagZyygj.ifwgzubgmix.iw,
yrpigDidu.u,gzxigfmig mrybxiug.cgZqx.xz,gzubgidrfgfmirxgdqwr gzf
wquxrwiagF.gmrdghm.wigiyzwfr gzubgsrv.x.qwgfm.qvmfgpiijwgjz ighrfmgfmi
wqu,gfmigbzngrwgzgjixjifqzygd.xuruvagRfgdzffixwgu.fghmzfgfmig y. pwgwzn
.xgfmigzffrfqbiwgzubgyzt.xwg.cgdiuagD.xuruvgrwghmiugRgzdgzhzpigzub
fmixigrwgzgbzhugrugdiagD.xzygxic.xdgrwgfmigicc.xfgf.gfmx.hg.ccgwyiija
Hmngrwgrfgfmzfgdiugvrsigw.gj..xgzugz  .qufg.cgfmirxgbzngrcgfmingmzsi
u.fgtiiugwyqdtixruv?gFmingzxigu.fgwq mgj..xg zy qyzf.xwagRcgfmingmzb
u.fgtiiug.six .dighrfmgbx.hwruiww,gfmingh.qybgmzsigjixc.xdibgw.difmruva
Fmigdryyr.uwgzxigzhzpigiu.qvmgc.xgjmnwr zygyzt.x;gtqfg.uyng.uigrugz
dryyr.ugrwgzhzpigiu.qvmgc.xgicci frsigrufiyyi fqzygioixfr.u,g.uyng.ui
rugzgmqubxibgdryyr.uwgf.gzgj.ifr g.xgbrsruigyrciagF.gtigzhzpigrwgf.gti
zyrsiagRgmzsiguisixgnifgdifgzgdzughm.ghzwglqrfigzhzpiagM.hg .qybgRgmzsi
y..pibgmrdgrugfmigcz i?

Higdqwfgyizxugf.gxizhzpiugzubgpiijg.qxwiysiwgzhzpi,gu.fgtngdi mzur zy
zrbw,gtqfgtngzugrucrurfigioji fzfr.ug.cgfmigbzhu,ghmr mgb.iwgu.f
c.xwzpigqwgrug.qxgw.qubiwfgwyiijagRgpu.hg.cgu.gd.xigiu .qxzvruvgcz f
fmzugfmigqulqiwfr.uztyigztryrfng.cgdzugf.giyiszfigmrwgyrcigtngz
 .uw r.qwgiubizs.xagRfgrwgw.difmruvgf.gtigztyigf.gjzrufgzgjzxfr qyzx
jr fqxi,g.xgf.g zxsigzgwfzfqi,gzubgw.gf.gdzpigzgcihg.tki fwgtizqfrcqy;
tqfgrfgrwgczxgd.xigvy.xr.qwgf.g zxsigzubgjzrufgfmigsixngzfd.wjmixigzub
dibrqdgfmx.qvmghmr mghigy..p,ghmr mgd.xzyynghig zugb.agF.gzcci fgfmi
lqzyrfng.cgfmigbzn,gfmzfgrwgfmigmrvmiwfg.cgzxfwagIsixngdzugrwgfzwpibgf.
dzpigmrwgyrci,gisiugrugrfwgbifzryw,gh.xfmng.cgfmig .ufidjyzfr.ug.cgmrw
d.wfgiyiszfibgzubg xrfr zygm.qxagRcghigxicqwib,g.xgxzfmixgqwibgqj,gwq m
jzyfxngruc.xdzfr.ugzwghigvif,gfmig.xz yiwgh.qybgbrwfru fyngruc.xdgqw
m.hgfmrwgdrvmfgtigb.uia

Rghiufgf.gfmigh..bwgti zqwigRghrwmibgf.gyrsigbiyrtixzfiyn,gf.gcx.uf
.uyngfmigiwwiufrzygcz fwg.cgyrci,gzubgwiigrcgRg .qybgu.fgyizxughmzfgrf
mzbgf.gfiz m,gzubgu.f,ghmiugRg zdigf.gbri,gbrw .sixgfmzfgRgmzbgu.f
yrsibagRgbrbgu.fghrwmgf.gyrsighmzfghzwgu.fgyrci,gyrsruvgrwgw.gbizx;gu.x
brbgRghrwmgf.gjxz frwigxiwrvuzfr.u,gquyiwwgrfghzwglqrfigui iwwzxnagR
hzufibgf.gyrsigbiijgzubgwq pg.qfgzyygfmigdzxx.hg.cgyrci,gf.gyrsigw.
wfqxbryngzubgWjzxfzu-yrpigzwgf.gjqfgf.gx.qfgzyygfmzfghzwgu.fgyrci,gf.
 qfgzgtx.zbgwhzfmgzubgwmzsig y.wi,gf.gbxrsigyrcigruf.gzg .xuix,gzub
xibq igrfgf.grfwgy.hiwfgfixdw,gzub,grcgrfgjx.sibgf.gtigdizu,ghmngfmiu
f.gvifgfmighm.yigzubgviuqruigdizuuiwwg.cgrf,gzubgjqtyrwmgrfwgdizuuiww
f.gfmigh.xyb;g.xgrcgrfghixigwqtyrdi,gf.gpu.hgrfgtngiojixriu i,gzubgti
ztyigf.gvrsigzgfxqigz  .qufg.cgrfgrugdnguiofgio qxwr.uagC.xgd.wfgdiu,
rfgzjjizxwgf.gdi,gzxigrugzgwfxzuvigqu ixfzrufngzt.qfgrf,ghmifmixgrfgrw
.cgfmigbisryg.xg.cgV.b,gzubgmzsig_w.dihmzfgmzwfryn_g .u yqbibgfmzfgrf
rwgfmig mricgiubg.cgdzugmixigf.g“vy.xrcngV.bgzubgiuk.ngmrdgc.xisixa”

Wfryyghigyrsigdizuyn,gyrpigzufw;gfm.qvmgfmigcztyigfiyywgqwgfmzfghighixi
y.uvgzv.g mzuvibgruf.gdiu;gyrpigjnvdriwghigcrvmfghrfmg xzuiw;grfgrw
ixx.xgqj.ugixx.x,gzubg y.qfgqj.ug y.qf,gzubg.qxgtiwfgsrxfqigmzwgc.xgrfw
.  zwr.ugzgwqjixcyq.qwgzubgisrfztyighxif mibuiwwag.qxgyrcigrwgcxrffixib
zhzngtngbifzryagZugm.uiwfgdzugmzwgmzxbynguiibgf.g .qufgd.xigfmzugmrw
fiugcruvixw,g.xgrugiofxidig zwiwgmigdzngzbbgmrwgfiugf.iw,gzubgyqdjgfmi
xiwfagWrdjyr rfn,gwrdjyr rfn,gwrdjyr rfn!gRgwzn,gyifgn.qxgzcczrxwgtigzw
fh.g.xgfmxii,gzubgu.fgzgmqubxibg.xgzgfm.qwzub;gruwfizbg.cgzgdryyr.u
 .qufgmzycgzgb.eiu,gzubgpiijgn.qxgz  .qufwg.ugn.qxgfmqdtguzryagRugfmi
drbwfg.cgfmrwg m.jjruvgwizg.cg rsryreibgyrci,gwq mgzxigfmig y.qbwgzub
wf.xdwgzubglqr pwzubwgzubgfm.qwzub-zub-.uigrfidwgf.gtigzyy.hibgc.x,
fmzfgzgdzugmzwgf.gyrsi,grcgmigh.qybgu.fgc.qubixgzubgv.gf.gfmigt.ff.d
zubgu.fgdzpigmrwgj.xfgzfgzyy,gtngbizbgxi p.uruv,gzubgmigdqwfgtigzgvxizf
 zy qyzf.xgrubiibghm.gwq  iibwagWrdjyrcn,gwrdjyrcnagRuwfizbg.cgfmxii
dizywgzgbzn,grcgrfgtigui iwwzxngizfgtqfg.ui;gruwfizbg.cgzgmqubxib
brwmiw,gcrsi;gzubgxibq ig.fmixgfmruvwgrugjx.j.xfr.uag.qxgyrcigrwgyrpigz
Vixdzug .ucibixz n,gdzbigqjg.cgjiffngwfzfiw,ghrfmgrfwgt.qubzxngc.xisix
cyq fqzfruv,gw.gfmzfgisiugzgVixdzug zuu.fgfiyygn.qgm.hgrfgrwgt.qubibgzf
zungd.diufagFmiguzfr.ugrfwiyc,ghrfmgzyygrfwgw.g zyyibgrufixuzy
rdjx.sidiufw,ghmr m,gtngfmighzngzxigzyygiofixuzygzubgwqjixcr rzy,grw
kqwfgwq mgzugquhriybngzubg.sixvx.hugiwfztyrwmdiuf,g yqffixibghrfm
cqxurfqxigzubgfxrjjibgqjgtngrfwg.hugfxzjw,gxqruibgtngyqoqxngzub
miibyiwwgiojiuwi,gtnghzufg.cg zy qyzfr.ugzubgzgh.xfmngzrd,gzwgfmi
dryyr.ugm.qwim.ybwgrugfmigyzub;gzubgfmig.uyng qxigc.xgrfgzwgc.xgfmidgrw
rugzgxrvrbgi .u.dn,gzgwfixugzubgd.xigfmzugWjzxfzugwrdjyr rfng.cgyrci
zubgiyiszfr.ug.cgjqxj.wiagRfgyrsiwgf..gczwfagDiugfmrupgfmzfgrfgrw
iwwiufrzygfmzfgfmig_Uzfr.u_gmzsig .ddix i,gzubgioj.xfgr i,gzubgfzyp
fmx.qvmgzgfiyivxzjm,gzubgxrbigfmrxfngdryiwgzugm.qx,ghrfm.qfgzgb.qtf,
hmifmixg_fmin_gb.g.xgu.f;gtqfghmifmixghigwm.qybgyrsigyrpigtzt..uwg.x
yrpigdiu,grwgzgyrffyigqu ixfzruagRcghigb.gu.fgvifg.qfgwyiijixw,gzub
c.xvigxzryw,gzubgbis.figbznwgzubgurvmfwgf.gfmigh.xp,gtqfgv.gf.
frupixruvgqj.ug.qxg_yrsiw_gf.grdjx.sig_fmid_,ghm.ghryygtqrybgxzryx.zbw?
Zubgrcgxzryx.zbwgzxigu.fgtqryf,gm.hgwmzyyghigvifgf.gmizsiugrugwizw.u?
Tqfgrcghigwfzngzfgm.digzubgdrubg.qxgtqwruiww,ghm.ghryyghzufgxzryx.zbw?
Higb.gu.fgxrbig.ugfmigxzryx.zb;grfgxrbiwgqj.ugqwagBrbgn.qgisixgfmrup
hmzfgfm.wigwyiijixwgzxigfmzfgqubixyrigfmigxzryx.zb?gIz mg.uigrwgzgdzu,
zugRxrwm-dzu,g.xgzgNzupiigdzuagFmigxzrywgzxigyzrbg.ugfmid,gzubgfmingzxi
 .sixibghrfmgwzub,gzubgfmig zxwgxqugwd..fmyng.sixgfmidagFmingzxigw.qub
wyiijixw,gRgzwwqxign.qagZubgisixngcihgnizxwgzguihgy.fgrwgyzrbgb.hugzub
xqug.six;gw.gfmzf,grcgw.digmzsigfmigjyizwqxig.cgxrbruvg.ugzgxzry,
.fmixwgmzsigfmigdrwc.xfquigf.gtigxrbbiugqj.uagZubghmiugfmingxqug.sixgz
dzugfmzfgrwghzypruvgrugmrwgwyiij,gzgwqjixuqdixzxngwyiijixgrugfmighx.uv
j.wrfr.u,gzubghzpigmrdgqj,gfmingwqbbiuyngwf.jgfmig zxw,gzubgdzpigzgmqi
zubg xngzt.qfgrf,gzwgrcgfmrwghixigzugio ijfr.uagRgzdgvyzbgf.gpu.hgfmzf
rfgfzpiwgzgvzuvg.cgdiugc.xgisixngcrsigdryiwgf.gpiijgfmigwyiijixwgb.hu
zubgyisiygrugfmirxgtibwgzwgrfgrw,gc.xgfmrwgrwgzgwrvugfmzfgfmingdzn
w.difrdigvifgqjgzvzrua

Hmngwm.qybghigyrsighrfmgwq mgmqxxngzubghzwfig.cgyrci?gHigzxigbifixdruib
f.gtigwfzxsibgtic.xighigzxigmquvxnagDiugwzngfmzfgzgwfrf mgrugfrdigwzsiw
urui,gzubgw.gfmingfzpigzgfm.qwzubgwfrf miwgf.-bzngf.gwzsigurui
f.-d.xx.hagZwgc.xg_h.xp_,ghigmzsiu’fgzung.cgzung .uwilqiu iagHigmzsi
fmigWzrufgSrfqw’gbzu i,gzubg zuu.fgj.wwrtyngpiijg.qxgmizbwgwfryyagRcgR
wm.qybg.uyngvrsigzgcihgjqyywgzfgfmigjzxrwmgtiyy-x.ji,gzwgc.xgzgcrxi,
fmzfgrw,ghrfm.qfgwiffruvgfmigtiyy,gfmixigrwgmzxbyngzgdzug.ugmrwgczxdgru
fmig.qfwprxfwg.cg .u .xb,gu.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmzfgjxiwwg.cgiuvzvidiufw
hmr mghzwgmrwgio qwigw.gdzungfrdiwgfmrwgd.xuruv,gu.xgzgt.n,gu.xgz
h.dzu,gRgdrvmfgzyd.wfgwzn,gtqfgh.qybgc.xwzpigzyygzubgc.yy.hgfmzfgw.qub,
u.fgdzruyngf.gwzsigjx.jixfngcx.dgfmigcyzdiw,gtqf,grcghighryyg .uciww
fmigfxqfm,gdq mgd.xigf.gwiigrfgtqxu,gwru igtqxugrfgdqwf,gzubghi,gtigrf
pu.hu,gbrbgu.fgwifgrfg.ugcrxi,—.xgf.gwiigrfgjqfg.qf,gzubgmzsigzgmzubgru
rf,grcgfmzfgrwgb.uigzwgmzubw.diyn;gniw,gisiugrcgrfghixigfmigjzxrwm
 mqx mgrfwiycagMzxbyngzgdzugfzpiwgzgmzycgm.qx’wguzjgzcfixgbruuix,gtqf
hmiugmighzpiwgmigm.ybwgqjgmrwgmizbgzubgzwpw,g“Hmzf’wgfmiguihw?”gzwgrc
fmigxiwfg.cgdzuprubgmzbgwf..bgmrwgwiufruiywagW.digvrsigbrxi fr.uwgf.gti
hzpibgisixngmzycgm.qx,gb.qtfyiwwgc.xgu.g.fmixgjqxj.wi;gzubgfmiu,gf.gjzn
c.xgrf,gfmingfiyyghmzfgfmingmzsigbxizdibagZcfixgzgurvmf’wgwyiijgfmi
uihwgrwgzwgrubrwjiuwztyigzwgfmigtxizpczwfag“Jxzngfiyygdigzungfmruvguih
fmzfgmzwgmzjjiuibgf.gzgdzugzunghmixig.ugfmrwgvy.ti,”—zubgmigxizbwgrf
.sixgmrwg .cciigzubgx.yyw,gfmzfgzgdzugmzwgmzbgmrwginiwgv.qvibg.qfgfmrw
d.xuruvg.ugfmigHz mrf.gXrsix;guisixgbxizdruvgfmighmryigfmzfgmigyrsiwgru
fmigbzxpgquczfm.dibgdzdd.fmg zsig.cgfmrwgh.xyb,gzubgmzwgtqfgfmi
xqbrdiufg.cgzuginigmrdwiyca

C.xgdngjzxf,gRg .qybgizwryngb.ghrfm.qfgfmigj.wf-.ccr iagRgfmrupgfmzf
fmixigzxigsixngcihgrdj.xfzufg .ddqur zfr.uwgdzbigfmx.qvmgrfagF.gwjizp
 xrfr zyyn,gRguisixgxi irsibgd.xigfmzug.uig.xgfh.gyiffixwgrugdngyrci—R
hx.figfmrwgw.dignizxwgzv.—fmzfghixigh.xfmgfmigj.wfzviagFmigjiuun-j.wf
rw,g .dd.uyn,gzugruwfrfqfr.ugfmx.qvmghmr mgn.qgwixr.qwyng.ccixgzgdzu
fmzfgjiuungc.xgmrwgfm.qvmfwghmr mgrwgw.g.cfiugwzciyng.ccixibgrugkiwfa
ZubgRgzdgwqxigfmzfgRguisixgxizbgzungdid.xztyiguihwgrugzguihwjzjixagRc
higxizbg.cg.uigdzugx.ttib,g.xgdqxbixib,g.xgpryyibgtngz  rbiuf,g.xg.ui
m.qwigtqxuib,g.xg.uigsiwwiyghxi pib,g.xg.uigwfizdt.zfgty.hugqj,g.xg.ui
 .hgxqug.sixg.ugfmigHiwfixugXzryx.zb,g.xg.uigdzbgb.vgpryyib,g.xg.uigy.f
.cgvxzwwm.jjixwgrugfmighrufix,—higuisixguiibgxizbg.cgzu.fmixag.uigrw
iu.qvmagRcgn.qgzxigz lqzrufibghrfmgfmigjxru rjyi,ghmzfgb.gn.qg zxigc.x
zgdnxrzbgruwfzu iwgzubgzjjyr zfr.uw?gF.gzgjmry.w.jmixgzyyg_uihw_,gzwgrf
rwg zyyib,grwgv.wwrj,gzubgfminghm.gibrfgzubgxizbgrfgzxig.ybgh.diug.six
fmirxgfizagNifgu.fgzgcihgzxigvxiibngzcfixgfmrwgv.wwrjagFmixighzwgwq mgz
xqwm,gzwgRgmizx,gfmig.fmixgbzngzfg.uig.cgfmig.ccr iwgf.gyizxugfmi
c.xirvuguihwgtngfmigyzwfgzxxrszy,gfmzfgwisixzygyzxvigwlqzxiwg.cgjyzfi
vyzwwgtiy.uvruvgf.gfmigiwfztyrwmdiufghixigtx.piugtngfmigjxiwwqxi,—uihw
hmr mgRgwixr.qwyngfmrupgzgxizbnghrfgdrvmfghxrfigzgfhiysi-d.ufm,g.x
fhiysignizxw,gtic.ximzubghrfmgwqccr riufgz  qxz nagZwgc.xgWjzru,gc.x
ruwfzu i,grcgn.qgpu.hgm.hgf.gfmx.hgrugB.ug zxy.wgzubgfmigRuczufz,gzub
B.ugJibx.gzubgWisryyigzubgVxzuzbz,gcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdigrugfmigxrvmf
jx.j.xfr.uw,—fmingdzngmzsig mzuvibgfmiguzdiwgzgyrffyigwru igRgwzhgfmi
jzjixw,—zubgwixsigqjgzgtqyy-crvmfghmiug.fmixgiufixfzrudiufwgczry,grf
hryygtigfxqigf.gfmigyiffix,gzubgvrsigqwgzwgv..bgzugrbizg.cgfmigioz f
wfzfig.xgxqrug.cgfmruvwgrugWjzrugzwgfmigd.wfgwq  ru fgzubgyq rbgxij.xfw
qubixgfmrwgmizbgrugfmiguihwjzjixw:gzubgzwgc.xgIuvyzub,gzyd.wfgfmigyzwf
wrvurcr zufgw xzjg.cguihwgcx.dgfmzfglqzxfixghzwgfmigxis.yqfr.ug.cg1649;
zubgrcgn.qgmzsigyizxuibgfmigmrwf.xng.cgmixg x.jwgc.xgzugzsixzvignizx,
n.qguisixguiibgzffiubgf.gfmzfgfmruvgzvzru,gquyiwwgn.qxgwji qyzfr.uwgzxi
.cgzgdixiyngji qurzxng mzxz fixagRcg.uigdzngkqbvighm.gxzxiyngy..pwgruf.
fmiguihwjzjixw,gu.fmruvguihgb.iwgisixgmzjjiugrugc.xirvugjzxfw,gzgCxiu m
xis.yqfr.ugu.fgio ijfiba

Hmzfguihw!gm.hgdq mgd.xigrdj.xfzufgf.gpu.hghmzfgfmzfgrwghmr mghzwguisix
.yb!g“Pri.q-mi-nqg(vxizfgbrvurfzxng.cgfmigwfzfig.cgHir)gwiufgzgdzugf.
Pm.quv-fwiqgf.gpu.hgmrwguihwagPm.quv-fwiqg zqwibgfmigdiwwiuvixgf.gti
wizfibguizxgmrd,gzubglqiwfr.uibgmrdgrugfmiwigfixdw:gHmzfgrwgn.qxgdzwfix
b.ruv?gFmigdiwwiuvixgzuwhixibghrfmgxiwji f:gDngdzwfixgbiwrxiwgf.
brdrurwmgfmiguqdtixg.cgmrwgczqyfw,gtqfgmig zuu.fg .digf.gfmigiubg.c
fmidagFmigdiwwiuvixgtiruvgv.ui,gfmigjmry.w.jmixgxidzxpib:gHmzfgzgh.xfmn
diwwiuvix!gHmzfgzgh.xfmngdiwwiuvix!”gFmigjxiz mix,gruwfizbg.cgsioruv
fmigizxwg.cgbx.hwngczxdixwg.ugfmirxgbzng.cgxiwfgzfgfmigiubg.cgfmi
hiip,—c.xgWqubzngrwgfmigcrfg .u yqwr.ug.cgzugryy-wjiufghiip,gzubgu.f
fmigcxiwmgzubgtxzsigtivruuruvg.cgzguihg.ui,—hrfmgfmrwg.uig.fmix
bxzvvyi-fzryg.cgzgwixd.u,gwm.qybgwm.qfghrfmgfmqubixruvgs.r i,g“Jzqwi!
Zszwf!gHmngw.gwiidruvgczwf,gtqfgbizbyngwy.h?”

Wmzdwgzubgbiyqwr.uwgzxigiwfiidibgc.xgw.qubiwfgfxqfmw,ghmryigxizyrfngrw
cztqy.qwagRcgdiugh.qybgwfizbryng.twixsigxizyrfriwg.uyn,gzubgu.fgzyy.h
fmidwiysiwgf.gtigbiyqbib,gyrci,gf.g .djzxigrfghrfmgwq mgfmruvwgzwghi
pu.h,gh.qybgtigyrpigzgczrxngfzyigzubgfmigZxztrzugUrvmfw’
IufixfzrudiufwagRcghigxiwji fibg.uynghmzfgrwgruisrfztyigzubgmzwgzgxrvmf
f.gti,gdqwr gzubgj.ifxngh.qybgxiw.qubgzy.uvgfmigwfxiifwagHmiughigzxi
qumqxxribgzubghrwi,ghigjix irsigfmzfg.uyngvxizfgzubgh.xfmngfmruvwgmzsi
zungjixdzuiufgzubgztw.yqfigiorwfiu i,—fmzfgjiffngcizxwgzubgjiffn
jyizwqxiwgzxigtqfgfmigwmzb.hg.cgfmigxizyrfnagFmrwgrwgzyhznw
iomryzxzfruvgzubgwqtyrdiagTng y.wruvgfmiginiwgzubgwyqdtixruv,gzub
 .uwiufruvgf.gtigbi irsibgtngwm.hw,gdiugiwfztyrwmgzubg .ucrxdgfmirx
bzryngyrcig.cgx.qfruigzubgmztrfgisixnhmixi,ghmr mgwfryygrwgtqryfg.u
jqxiyngryyqw.xngc.qubzfr.uwag mrybxiu,ghm.gjyzngyrci,gbrw ixugrfwgfxqi
yzhgzubgxiyzfr.uwgd.xig yizxyngfmzugdiu,ghm.gczrygf.gyrsigrfgh.xfmryn,
tqfghm.gfmrupgfmzfgfmingzxighrwixgtngiojixriu i,gfmzfgrw,gtngczryqxiagR
mzsigxizbgrugzgMrub..gt..p,gfmzfg“fmixighzwgzgpruv’wgw.u,ghm.,gtiruv
iojiyyibgrugruczu ngcx.dgmrwguzfrsig rfn,ghzwgtx.qvmfgqjgtngzgc.xiwfix,
zub,gvx.hruvgqjgf.gdzfqxrfngrugfmzfgwfzfi,grdzvruibgmrdwiycgf.gtiy.uv
f.gfmigtzxtzx.qwgxz ighrfmghmr mgmigyrsibag.uig.cgmrwgczfmix’w
drurwfixwgmzsruvgbrw .sixibgmrd,gxisizyibgf.gmrdghmzfgmighzw,gzubgfmi
drw .u ijfr.ug.cgmrwg mzxz fixghzwgxid.sib,gzubgmigpuihgmrdwiycgf.gtigz
jxru iagW.gw.qy,”g .ufruqiwgfmigMrub..gjmry.w.jmix,g“cx.dgfmi
 rx qdwfzu iwgrughmr mgrfgrwgjyz ib,gdrwfzpiwgrfwg.hug mzxz fix,gqufry
fmigfxqfmgrwgxisizyibgf.grfgtngw.digm.yngfiz mix,gzubgfmiugrfgpu.hw
rfwiycgf.gtig_Txzmdi_a”gRgjix irsigfmzfghigrumztrfzufwg.cgUihgIuvyzub
yrsigfmrwgdizugyrcigfmzfghigb.gti zqwig.qxgsrwr.ugb.iwgu.fgjiuifxzfi
fmigwqxcz ig.cgfmruvwagHigfmrupgfmzfgfmzfg_rw_ghmr mg_zjjizxw_gf.gtia
Rcgzgdzugwm.qybghzypgfmx.qvmgfmrwgf.hugzubgwiig.uyngfmigxizyrfn,ghmixi,
fmrupgn.q,gh.qybgfmig“Dryy-bzd”gv.gf.?gRcgmigwm.qybgvrsigqwgzugz  .quf
.cgfmigxizyrfriwgmigtimiybgfmixi,ghigwm.qybgu.fgxi .vureigfmigjyz igru
mrwgbiw xrjfr.uagY..pgzfgzgdiifruv-m.qwi,g.xgzg .qxf-m.qwi,g.xgzgkzry,
.xgzgwm.j,g.xgzgbhiyyruv-m.qwi,gzubgwznghmzfgfmzfgfmruvgxizyyngrw
tic.xigzgfxqigvzei,gzubgfmingh.qybgzyygv.gf.gjri iwgrugn.qxgz  .qufg.c
fmidagDiugiwfiidgfxqfmgxid.fi,grugfmig.qfwprxfwg.cgfmigwnwfid,gtimrub
fmigczxfmiwfgwfzx,gtic.xigZbzdgzubgzcfixgfmigyzwfgdzuagRugifixurfn
fmixigrwgrubiibgw.difmruvgfxqigzubgwqtyrdiagTqfgzyygfmiwigfrdiwgzub
jyz iwgzubg.  zwr.uwgzxigu.hgzubgmixiagV.bgmrdwiycg qydruzfiwgrugfmi
jxiwiufgd.diuf,gzubghryyguisixgtigd.xigbrsruigrugfmigyzjwig.cgzyygfmi
zviwagZubghigzxigiuztyibgf.gzjjximiubgzfgzyyghmzfgrwgwqtyrdigzubgu.tyi
.uyngtngfmigjixjifqzygruwfryyruvgzubgbxiu mruvg.cgfmigxizyrfngfmzf
wqxx.qubwgqwagFmigqursixwig .uwfzufyngzubg.tibriufyngzuwhixwgf.g.qx
 .u ijfr.uw;ghmifmixghigfxzsiygczwfg.xgwy.h,gfmigfxz pgrwgyzrbgc.xgqwa
Yifgqwgwjiubg.qxgyrsiwgrug .u irsruvgfmiuagFmigj.ifg.xgfmigzxfrwfguisix
nifgmzbgw.gczrxgzubgu.tyigzgbiwrvugtqfgw.dig.cgmrwgj.wfixrfngzfgyizwf
 .qybgz  .djyrwmgrfa

Yifgqwgwjiubg.uigbzngzwgbiyrtixzfiyngzwgUzfqxi,gzubgu.fgtigfmx.hug.cc
fmigfxz pgtngisixnguqfwmiyygzubgd.wlqrf.’wghruvgfmzfgczyywg.ugfmi
xzrywagYifgqwgxrwigizxyngzubgczwf,g.xgtxizpgczwf,gviufyngzubghrfm.qf
jixfqxtzfr.u;gyifg .djzung .digzubgyifg .djzungv.,gyifgfmigtiyywgxruv
zubgfmig mrybxiug xn,—bifixdruibgf.gdzpigzgbzng.cgrfagHmngwm.qybghi
pu. pgqubixgzubgv.ghrfmgfmigwfxizd?gYifgqwgu.fgtigqjwifgzubg.sixhmiydib
rugfmzfgfixxrtyigxzjrbgzubghmrxyj..yg zyyibgzgbruuix,gwrfqzfibgrugfmi
dixrbrzugwmzyy.hwagHizfmixgfmrwgbzuvixgzubgn.qgzxigwzci,gc.xgfmigxiwf
.cgfmighzngrwgb.hugmryyagHrfmgquxiyzoibguixsiw,ghrfmgd.xuruvgsrv.x,
wzrygtngrf,gy..pruvgzu.fmixghzn,gfribgf.gfmigdzwfgyrpigQynwwiwagRcgfmi
iuvruighmrwfyiw,gyifgrfghmrwfyigfryygrfgrwgm.zxwigc.xgrfwgjzruwagRcgfmi
tiyygxruvw,ghmngwm.qybghigxqu?gHighryyg .uwrbixghmzfgprubg.cgdqwr gfmin
zxigyrpiagYifgqwgwiffyig.qxwiysiw,gzubgh.xpgzubghibvig.qxgciifgb.huhzxb
fmx.qvmgfmigdqbgzubgwyqwmg.cg.jrur.u,gzubgjxikqbr i,gzubgfxzbrfr.u,gzub
biyqwr.u,gzubgzjjizxzu i,gfmzfgzyyqsr.ughmr mg .sixwgfmigvy.ti,gfmx.qvm
JzxrwgzubgY.ub.u,gfmx.qvmgUihgN.xpgzubgT.wf.ugzubg .u .xb,gfmx.qvm
 mqx mgzubgwfzfi,gfmx.qvmgj.ifxngzubgjmry.w.jmngzubgxiyrvr.u,gfryyghi
 .digf.gzgmzxbgt.ff.dgzubgx. pwgrugjyz i,ghmr mghig zug zyyg_xizyrfn_,
zubgwzn,gFmrwgrw,gzubgu.gdrwfzpi;gzubgfmiugtivru,gmzsruvgzg_j.ruf
b’zjjqr_,gtiy.hgcxiwmifgzubgcx.wfgzubgcrxi,gzgjyz ighmixign.qgdrvmf
c.qubgzghzyyg.xgzgwfzfi,g.xgwifgzgyzdj-j.wfgwzciyn,g.xgjixmzjwgzgvzqvi,
u.fgzgUry.difix,gtqfgzgXizy.difix,gfmzfgcqfqxigzviwgdrvmfgpu.hgm.hgbiij
zgcxiwmifg.cgwmzdwgzubgzjjizxzu iwgmzbgvzfmixibgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdiagRc
n.qgwfzubgxrvmfgcx.ufruvgzubgcz igf.gcz igf.gzgcz f,gn.qghryygwiigfmi
wqugvyrddixg.ugt.fmgrfwgwqxcz iw,gzwgrcgrfghixigzg rdifix,gzubgciiygrfw
whiifgibvigbrsrbruvgn.qgfmx.qvmgfmigmizxfgzubgdzxx.h,gzubgw.gn.qghryy
mzjjryng .u yqbign.qxgd.xfzyg zxiixagTigrfgyrcig.xgbizfm,ghig xzsig.uyn
xizyrfnagRcghigzxigxizyyngbnruv,gyifgqwgmizxgfmigxzffyigrug.qxgfmx.zfw
zubgciiyg .ybgrugfmigiofxidrfriw;grcghigzxigzyrsi,gyifgqwgv.gzt.qfg.qx
tqwruiwwa

FrdigrwgtqfgfmigwfxizdgRgv.gz-crwmruvgruagRgbxrupgzfgrf;gtqfghmryigR
bxrupgRgwiigfmigwzubngt.ff.dgzubgbifi fgm.hgwmzyy.hgrfgrwagRfwgfmru
 qxxiufgwyrbiwgzhzn,gtqfgifixurfngxidzruwagRgh.qybgbxrupgbiijix;gcrwm
rugfmigwpn,ghm.wigt.ff.dgrwgjittynghrfmgwfzxwagRg zuu.fg .qufg.uiagR
pu.hgu.fgfmigcrxwfgyiffixg.cgfmigzyjmztifagRgmzsigzyhznwgtiiu
xivxiffruvgfmzfgRghzwgu.fgzwghrwigzwgfmigbzngRghzwgt.xuagFmigrufiyyi f
rwgzg yizsix;grfgbrw ixuwgzubgxrcfwgrfwghzngruf.gfmigwi xifg.cgfmruvwa
Rgb.gu.fghrwmgf.gtigzungd.xigtqwnghrfmgdngmzubwgfmzugrwgui iwwzxnagDn
mizbgrwgmzubwgzubgciifagRgciiygzyygdngtiwfgcz qyfriwg .u iufxzfibgru
rfagDngruwfru fgfiyywgdigfmzfgdngmizbgrwgzug.xvzugc.xgtqxx.hruv,gzw
w.dig xizfqxiwgqwigfmirxgwu.qfgzubgc.xi-jzhw,gzubghrfmgrfgRgh.qybgdrui
zubgtqxx.hgdnghzngfmx.qvmgfmiwigmryywagRgfmrupgfmzfgfmigxr miwfgsirugrw
w.dihmixigmixizt.qfw;gw.gtngfmigbrsruruv-x.bgzubgfmrugxrwruvgszj.xwgR
kqbvi;gzubgmixigRghryygtivrugf.gdruia


Xizbruv

Hrfmgzgyrffyigd.xigbiyrtixzfr.ugrugfmig m.r ig.cgfmirxgjqxwqrfw,gzyy
diugh.qybgjixmzjwgti .digiwwiufrzyyngwfqbiufwgzubg.twixsixw,gc.x
 ixfzruyngfmirxguzfqxigzubgbiwfrungzxigrufixiwfruvgf.gzyygzyrpiagRu
z  qdqyzfruvgjx.jixfngc.xg.qxwiysiwg.xg.qxgj.wfixrfn,grugc.qubruvgz
czdryng.xgzgwfzfi,g.xgz lqrxruvgczdigisiu,ghigzxigd.xfzy;gtqfgru
bizyruvghrfmgfxqfmghigzxigrdd.xfzy,gzubguiibgcizxgu.g mzuvigu.x
z  rbiufagFmig.ybiwfgIvnjfrzug.xgMrub..gjmry.w.jmixgxzrwibgzg .xuixg.c
fmigsirygcx.dgfmigwfzfqig.cgfmigbrsrurfn;gzubgwfryygfmigfxidtyruvgx.ti
xidzruwgxzrwib,gzubgRgvzeigqj.ugzwgcxiwmgzgvy.xngzwgmigbrb,gwru igrf
hzwgRgrugmrdgfmzfghzwgfmiugw.gt.yb,gzubgrfgrwgmigrugdigfmzfgu.hgxisrihw
fmigsrwr.uagU.gbqwfgmzwgwiffyibg.ugfmzfgx.ti;gu.gfrdigmzwgiyzjwibgwru i
fmzfgbrsrurfnghzwgxisizyibagFmzfgfrdighmr mghigxizyyngrdjx.si,g.xghmr m
rwgrdjx.sztyi,grwguirfmixgjzwf,gjxiwiuf,gu.xgcqfqxia

Dngxiwrbiu ighzwgd.xigczs.xztyi,gu.fg.uyngf.gfm.qvmf,gtqfgf.gwixr.qw
xizbruv,gfmzugzgqursixwrfn;gzubgfm.qvmgRghzwgtin.ubgfmigxzuvig.cgfmi
.xbruzxng rx qyzfruvgyrtxzxn,gRgmzbgd.xigfmzugisixg .dighrfmrugfmi
rucyqiu ig.cgfm.wigt..pwghmr mg rx qyzfigx.qubgfmigh.xyb,ghm.wi
wiufiu iwghixigcrxwfghxrffiug.ugtzxp,gzubgzxigu.hgdixiyng .jribgcx.d
frdigf.gfrdig.ugf.gyruiugjzjixagWznwgfmigj.ifgDîxg zdzxgQbbîugDzwf,
“Tiruvgwizfibgf.gxqugfmx.qvmgfmigxivr.ug.cgfmigwjrxrfqzygh.xyb;gRgmzsi
mzbgfmrwgzbszufzvigrugt..pwagF.gtigruf.or zfibgtngzgwruvyigvyzwwg.c
hrui;gRgmzsigiojixriu ibgfmrwgjyizwqxighmiugRgmzsigbxqupgfmigyrlq.xg.c
fmigiw.fixr gb. fxruiwa”gRgpijfgM.dix’wgRyrzbg.ugdngfztyigfmx.qvmgfmi
wqddix,gfm.qvmgRgy..pibgzfgmrwgjzvig.uyngu.hgzubgfmiuagRu iwwzufgyzt.x
hrfmgdngmzubw,gzfgcrxwf,gc.xgRgmzbgdngm.qwigf.gcrurwmgzubgdngtizuwgf.
m.igzfgfmigwzdigfrdi,gdzbigd.xigwfqbngrdj.wwrtyiagNifgRgwqwfzruib
dnwiycgtngfmigjx.wji fg.cgwq mgxizbruvgrugcqfqxiagRgxizbg.uig.xgfh.
wmzyy.hgt..pwg.cgfxzsiygrugfmigrufixszywg.cgdngh.xp,gfryygfmzf
idjy.ndiufgdzbigdigzwmzdibg.cgdnwiyc,gzubgRgzwpibghmixigrfghzwgfmiu
fmzfg_R_gyrsiba

FmigwfqbiufgdzngxizbgM.dixg.xgÆw mnyqwgrugfmigVxiipghrfm.qfgbzuvixg.c
brwwrjzfr.ug.xgyqoqxr.qwuiww,gc.xgrfgrdjyriwgfmzfgmigrugw.digdizwqxi
idqyzfigfmirxgmix.iw,gzubg .uwi xzfigd.xuruvgm.qxwgf.gfmirxgjzviwagFmi
mix.r gt..pw,gisiugrcgjxrufibgrugfmig mzxz fixg.cg.qxgd.fmixgf.uvqi,
hryygzyhznwgtigrugzgyzuvqzvigbizbgf.gbiviuixzfigfrdiw;gzubghigdqwf
yzt.xr.qwyngwiipgfmigdizuruvg.cgiz mgh.xbgzubgyrui,g .uki fqxruvgz
yzxvixgwiuwigfmzug .dd.ugqwigjixdrfwg.qfg.cghmzfghrwb.dgzubgszy.xgzub
viuix.wrfnghigmzsiagFmigd.bixug mizjgzubgcixfryigjxiww,ghrfmgzyygrfw
fxzuwyzfr.uw,gmzwgb.uigyrffyigf.gtxruvgqwguizxixgf.gfmigmix.r ghxrfixw
.cgzufrlqrfnagFmingwiidgzwgw.yrfzxn,gzubgfmigyiffixgrughmr mgfmingzxi
jxrufibgzwgxzxigzubg qxr.qw,gzwgisixagRfgrwgh.xfmgfmigiojiuwig.c
n.qfmcqygbznwgzubg .wfyngm.qxw,grcgn.qgyizxug.uyngw.digh.xbwg.cgzu
zu riufgyzuvqzvi,ghmr mgzxigxzrwibg.qfg.cgfmigfxrsrzyuiwwg.cgfmi
wfxiif,gf.gtigjixjifqzygwqvviwfr.uwgzubgjx.s. zfr.uwagRfgrwgu.fgrugszru
fmzfgfmigczxdixgxididtixwgzubgxijizfwgfmigcihgYzfrugh.xbwghmr mgmigmzw
mizxbagDiugw.difrdiwgwjizpgzwgrcgfmigwfqbng.cgfmig yzwwr wgh.qybgzf
yiuvfmgdzpighzngc.xgd.xigd.bixugzubgjxz fr zygwfqbriw;gtqfgfmi
zbsiufqx.qwgwfqbiufghryygzyhznwgwfqbng yzwwr w,grughmzfisixgyzuvqzvi
fmingdzngtighxrffiugzubgm.hisixgzu riufgfmingdzngtiagC.xghmzfgzxigfmi
 yzwwr wgtqfgfmigu.tyiwfgxi .xbibgfm.qvmfwg.cgdzu?gFmingzxigfmig.uyn
.xz yiwghmr mgzxigu.fgbi znib,gzubgfmixigzxigwq mgzuwhixwgf.gfmigd.wf
d.bixugrulqrxngrugfmidgzwgBiyjmrgzubgB.b.uzguisixgvzsiagHigdrvmfgzw
hiyyg.drfgf.gwfqbngUzfqxigti zqwigwmigrwg.ybagF.gxizbghiyy,gfmzfgrw,gf.
xizbgfxqigt..pwgrugzgfxqigwjrxrf,grwgzgu.tyigioix rwi,gzubg.uigfmzf
hryygfzwpgfmigxizbixgd.xigfmzugzungioix rwighmr mgfmig qwf.dwg.cgfmi
bzngiwfiidagRfgxilqrxiwgzgfxzruruvgwq mgzwgfmigzfmyifiwgqubixhiuf,gfmi
wfizbngrufiufr.ugzyd.wfg.cgfmighm.yigyrcigf.gfmrwg.tki fagT..pwgdqwfgti
xizbgzwgbiyrtixzfiyngzubgxiwixsibyngzwgfminghixighxrffiuagRfgrwgu.f
iu.qvmgisiugf.gtigztyigf.gwjizpgfmigyzuvqzvig.cgfmzfguzfr.ugtnghmr m
fmingzxighxrffiu,gc.xgfmixigrwgzgdid.xztyigrufixszygtifhiiugfmigwj.piu
zubgfmighxrffiugyzuvqzvi,gfmigyzuvqzvigmizxbgzubgfmigyzuvqzvigxizbagFmi
.uigrwg .dd.uyngfxzuwrf.xn,gzgw.qub,gzgf.uvqi,gzgbrzyi fgdixiyn,gzyd.wf
txqfrwm,gzubghigyizxugrfgqu .uw r.qwyn,gyrpigfmigtxqfiw,g.cg.qx
d.fmixwagFmig.fmixgrwgfmigdzfqxrfngzubgiojixriu ig.cgfmzf;grcgfmzfgrw
.qxgd.fmixgf.uvqi,gfmrwgrwg.qxgczfmixgf.uvqi,gzgxiwixsibgzubgwiyi f
iojxiwwr.u,gf..gwrvurcr zufgf.gtigmizxbgtngfmigizx,ghmr mghigdqwfgti
t.xugzvzrugrug.xbixgf.gwjizpagFmig x.hbwg.cgdiughm.gdixiyng_wj.pi_gfmi
VxiipgzubgYzfrugf.uvqiwgrugfmigdrbbyigzviwghixigu.fgiufrfyibgtngfmi
z  rbiufg.cgtrxfmgf.g_xizb_gfmigh.xpwg.cgviurqwghxrffiugrugfm.wi
yzuvqzviw;gc.xgfmiwighixigu.fghxrffiugrugfmzfgVxiipg.xgYzfrughmr mgfmin
puih,gtqfgrugfmigwiyi fgyzuvqzvig.cgyrfixzfqxiagFmingmzbgu.fgyizxuib
fmigu.tyixgbrzyi fwg.cgVxii igzubgX.di,gtqfgfmigsixngdzfixrzywg.ughmr m
fminghixighxrffiughixighzwfigjzjixgf.gfmid,gzubgfmingjxreibgruwfizbgz
 mizjg .ufidj.xzxngyrfixzfqxiagTqfghmiugfmigwisixzyguzfr.uwg.cgIqx.ji
mzbgz lqrxibgbrwfru fgfm.qvmgxqbighxrffiugyzuvqzviwg.cgfmirxg.hu,
wqccr riufgc.xgfmigjqxj.wiwg.cgfmirxgxrwruvgyrfixzfqxiw,gfmiugcrxwf
yizxuruvgxisrsib,gzubgw m.yzxwghixigiuztyibgf.gbrw ixugcx.dgfmzf
xid.fiuiwwgfmigfxizwqxiwg.cgzufrlqrfnagHmzfgfmigX.dzugzubgVxi rzu
dqyfrfqbig .qybgu.fg_mizx_,gzcfixgfmigyzjwig.cgzviwgzgcihgw m.yzxw
_xizb_,gzubgzgcihgw m.yzxwg.uyngzxigwfryygxizbruvgrfa

M.hisixgdq mghigdzngzbdrxigfmig.xzf.x’wg.  zwr.uzygtqxwfwg.cgiy.lqiu i,
fmigu.tyiwfghxrffiugh.xbwgzxig .dd.uyngzwgczxgtimrubg.xgzt.sigfmi
cyiifruvgwj.piugyzuvqzvigzwgfmigcrxdzdiufghrfmgrfwgwfzxwgrwgtimrubgfmi
 y.qbwag_Fmixi_gzxigfmigwfzxw,gzubgfminghm.g zugdzngxizbgfmidagFmi
zwfx.u.dixwgc.xisixg .ddiufg.ugzubg.twixsigfmidagFmingzxigu.f
iomzyzfr.uwgyrpig.qxgbzryng .yy.lqriwgzubgszj.x.qwgtxizfmagHmzfgrw
 zyyibgiy.lqiu igrugfmigc.xqdgrwg .dd.uyngc.qubgf.gtigxmif.xr grugfmi
wfqbnagFmig.xzf.xgnriybwgf.gfmigruwjrxzfr.ug.cgzgfxzuwriufg.  zwr.u,
zubgwjizpwgf.gfmigd.tgtic.xigmrd,gf.gfm.wighm.g zug_mizx_gmrd;gtqfgfmi
hxrfix,ghm.wigd.xigilqztyigyrcigrwgmrwg.  zwr.u,gzubghm.gh.qybgti
brwfxz fibgtngfmigisiufgzubgfmig x.hbghmr mgruwjrxigfmig.xzf.x,gwjizpw
f.gfmigrufiyyi fgzubgmizyfmg.cgdzuprub,gf.gzyygrugzungzvighm.g zu
_qubixwfzub_gmrda

U.gh.ubixgfmzfgZyiozubixg zxxribgfmigRyrzbghrfmgmrdg.ugmrwgiojibrfr.uw
rugzgjxi r.qwg zwpifagZghxrffiugh.xbgrwgfmig m.r iwfg.cgxiyr wagRfgrw
w.difmruvgzfg.u igd.xigrufrdzfighrfmgqwgzubgd.xigqursixwzygfmzugzun
.fmixgh.xpg.cgzxfagRfgrwgfmigh.xpg.cgzxfguizxiwfgf.gyrcigrfwiycagRfgdzn
tigfxzuwyzfibgruf.gisixngyzuvqzvi,gzubgu.fg.uyngtigxizbgtqfgz fqzyyn
txizfmibgcx.dgzyygmqdzugyrjw;—u.fgtigxijxiwiufibg.ug zuszwg.xgrugdzxtyi
.uyn,gtqfgtig zxsibg.qfg.cgfmigtxizfmg.cgyrcigrfwiycagFmigwndt.yg.cgzu
zu riufgdzu’wgfm.qvmfgti .diwgzgd.bixugdzu’wgwjii magFh.gfm.qwzub
wqddixwgmzsigrdjzxfibgf.gfmigd.uqdiufwg.cgVxi rzugyrfixzfqxi,gzwgf.gmix
dzxtyiw,g.uyngzgdzfqxixgv.ybiugzubgzqfqduzygfruf,gc.xgfmingmzsig zxxrib
fmirxg.hugwixiuigzubg iyiwfrzygzfd.wjmixigruf.gzyygyzubwgf.gjx.fi f
fmidgzvzruwfgfmig .xx.wr.ug.cgfrdiagT..pwgzxigfmigfxizwqxibghizyfmg.c
fmigh.xybgzubgfmigcrfgrumixrfzu ig.cgviuixzfr.uwgzubguzfr.uwagT..pw,
fmig.ybiwfgzubgfmigtiwf,gwfzubguzfqxzyyngzubgxrvmfcqyyng.ugfmigwmiysiw
.cgisixng .ffzviagFmingmzsigu.g zqwig.cgfmirxg.hugf.gjyizb,gtqfghmryi
fmingiuyrvmfiugzubgwqwfzrugfmigxizbixgmrwg .dd.ugwiuwighryygu.fgxicqwi
fmidagFmirxgzqfm.xwgzxigzguzfqxzygzubgrxxiwrwfrtyigzxrwf. xz ngrugisixn
w. rifn,gzub,gd.xigfmzugpruvwg.xgidjix.xw,gioixfgzugrucyqiu ig.u
dzuprubagHmiugfmigryyrfixzfigzubgjixmzjwgw .xucqygfxzbixgmzwgizxuibgtn
iufixjxrwigzubgrubqwfxngmrwg .sifibgyirwqxigzubgrubijiubiu i,gzubgrw
zbdrffibgf.gfmig rx yiwg.cghizyfmgzubgczwmr.u,gmigfqxuwgruisrfztyngzf
yzwfgf.gfm.wigwfryygmrvmixgtqfgnifgruz  iwwrtyig rx yiwg.cgrufiyyi f
zubgviurqw,gzubgrwgwiuwrtyig.uyng.cgfmigrdjixci fr.ug.cgmrwg qyfqxigzub
fmigszurfngzubgruwqccr riu ng.cgzyygmrwgxr miw,gzubgcqxfmixgjx.siwgmrw
v..bgwiuwigtngfmigjzruwghmr mgmigfzpiwgf.gwi qxigc.xgmrwg mrybxiugfmzf
rufiyyi fqzyg qyfqxighm.wighzufgmigw.gpiiuyngciiyw;gzubgfmqwgrfgrwgfmzf
migti .diwgfmigc.qubixg.cgzgczdryna

Fm.wighm.gmzsigu.fgyizxuibgf.gxizbgfmigzu riufg yzwwr wgrugfmigyzuvqzvi
rughmr mgfminghixighxrffiugdqwfgmzsigzgsixngrdjixci fgpu.hyibvig.cgfmi
mrwf.xng.cgfmigmqdzugxz i;gc.xgrfgrwgxidzxpztyigfmzfgu.gfxzuw xrjfg.c
fmidgmzwgisixgtiiugdzbigruf.gzungd.bixugf.uvqi,gquyiwwg.qxg rsryrezfr.u
rfwiycgdzngtigxivzxbibgzwgwq mgzgfxzuw xrjfagM.dixgmzwguisixgnifgtiiu
jxrufibgrugIuvyrwm,gu.xgÆw mnyqw,gu.xgSrxvrygisiu—h.xpwgzwgxicruib,gzw
w.yrbyngb.ui,gzubgzwgtizqfrcqygzyd.wfgzwgfmigd.xuruvgrfwiyc;gc.xgyzfix
hxrfixw,gwznghmzfghighryyg.cgfmirxgviurqw,gmzsigxzxiyn,grcgisix,
ilqzyyibgfmigiyzt.xzfigtizqfngzubgcrurwmgzubgfmigyrciy.uvgzubgmix.r 
yrfixzxngyzt.xwg.cgfmigzu riufwagFming.uyngfzypg.cgc.xviffruvgfmidghm.
uisixgpuihgfmidagRfghryygtigw..ugiu.qvmgf.gc.xvifgfmidghmiughigmzsigfmi
yizxuruvgzubgfmigviurqwghmr mghryygiuztyigqwgf.gzffiubgf.gzub
zjjxi rzfigfmidagFmzfgzvighryygtigxr mgrubiibghmiugfm.wigxiyr wghmr m
hig zyyg yzwwr w,gzubgfmigwfryyg.ybixgzubgd.xigfmzug yzwwr gtqfgisiu
yiwwgpu.hugW xrjfqxiwg.cgfmiguzfr.uw,gwmzyygmzsigwfryygcqxfmix
z  qdqyzfib,ghmiugfmigSzfr zuwgwmzyygtigcryyibghrfmgSibzwgzub
EiubzsiwfzwgzubgTrtyiw,ghrfmgM.dixwgzubgBzufiwgzubgWmzpiwjizxiw,gzub
zyygfmig iufqxriwgf.g .digwmzyygmzsigwq  iwwrsiyngbij.wrfibgfmirx
fx.jmriwgrugfmigc.xqdg.cgfmigh.xybagTngwq mgzgjryighigdzngm.jigf.gw zyi
mizsiugzfgyzwfa

Fmigh.xpwg.cgfmigvxizfgj.ifwgmzsiguisixgnifgtiiugxizbgtngdzuprub,gc.x
.uyngvxizfgj.ifwg zugxizbgfmidagFmingmzsig.uyngtiiugxizbgzwgfmi
dqyfrfqbigxizbgfmigwfzxw,gzfgd.wfgzwfx.y.vr zyyn,gu.fgzwfx.u.dr zyyna
D.wfgdiugmzsigyizxuibgf.gxizbgf.gwixsigzgjzyfxng .usiuriu i,gzwgfmin
mzsigyizxuibgf.g rjmixgrug.xbixgf.gpiijgz  .qufwgzubgu.fgtig mizfibgru
fxzbi;gtqfg.cgxizbruvgzwgzgu.tyigrufiyyi fqzygioix rwigfmingpu.hgyrffyi
.xgu.fmruv;gnifgfmrwg.uyngrwgxizbruv,grugzgmrvmgwiuwi,gu.fgfmzfghmr m
yqyywgqwgzwgzgyqoqxngzubgwqccixwgfmigu.tyixgcz qyfriwgf.gwyiijgfmi
hmryi,gtqfghmzfghigmzsigf.gwfzubg.ugfrj-f.igf.gxizbgzubgbis.fig.qxgd.wf
zyixfgzubghzpicqygm.qxwgf.a

Rgfmrupgfmzfgmzsruvgyizxuibg.qxgyiffixwghigwm.qybgxizbgfmigtiwfgfmzfgrw
rugyrfixzfqxi,gzubgu.fgtigc.xisixgxijizfruvg.qxgzgtgztw,gzubgh.xbwg.c
.uigwnyyztyi,grugfmigc.qxfmg.xgcrcfmg yzwwiw,gwrffruvg.ugfmigy.hiwfgzub
c.xid.wfgc.xdgzyyg.qxgyrsiwagD.wfgdiugzxigwzfrwcribgrcgfmingxizbg.x
mizxgxizb,gzubgjix mzu igmzsigtiiug .usr fibgtngfmighrwb.dg.cg.uigv..b
t..p,gfmigTrtyi,gzubgc.xgfmigxiwfg.cgfmirxgyrsiwgsivifzfigzubgbrwwrjzfi
fmirxgcz qyfriwgrughmzfgrwg zyyibgizwngxizbruvagFmixigrwgzgh.xpgru
wisixzygs.yqdiwgrug.qxg rx qyzfruvgYrtxzxngiufrfyibgYrffyigXizbruv,
hmr mgRgfm.qvmfgxicixxibgf.gzgf.hug.cgfmzfguzdighmr mgRgmzbgu.fgtiiu
f.agFmixigzxigfm.wighm.,gyrpig .xd.xzufwgzubg.wfxr miw,g zugbrviwfgzyy
w.xfwg.cgfmrw,gisiugzcfixgfmigcqyyiwfgbruuixg.cgdizfwgzubgsivifztyiw,
c.xgfmingwqccixgu.fmruvgf.gtighzwfibagRcg.fmixwgzxigfmigdz mruiwgf.
jx.srbigfmrwgjx.siubix,gfmingzxigfmigdz mruiwgf.gxizbgrfagFmingxizbgfmi
uruigfm.qwzubfmgfzyigzt.qfgEitqy.ugzubgWijmx.urz,gzubgm.hgfmingy.sibgzw
u.uigmzbgisixgy.sibgtic.xi,gzubguirfmixgbrbgfmig .qxwig.cgfmirxgfxqi
y.sigxqugwd..fm,—zfgzungxzfi,gm.hgrfgbrbgxqugzubgwfqdtyi,gzubgvifgqj
zvzrugzubgv.g.u!gm.hgw.digj..xgquc.xfquzfigv.fgqjg.ugf.gzgwfiijyi,ghm.
mzbgtiffixguisixgmzsigv.uigqjgzwgczxgzwgfmigtiycxn;gzubgfmiu,gmzsruv
uiibyiwwyngv.fgmrdgqjgfmixi,gfmigmzjjngu.siyrwfgxruvwgfmigtiyygc.xgzyy
fmigh.xybgf.g .digf.vifmixgzubgmizx,g.gbizx!gm.hgmigbrbgvifgb.hugzvzru!
C.xgdngjzxf,gRgfmrupgfmzfgfmingmzbgtiffixgdifzd.xjm.wigzyygwq m
zwjrxruvgmix.iwg.cgqursixwzygu.siyb.dgruf.gdzughizfmix . pw,gzwgfmin
qwibgf.gjqfgmix.iwgzd.uvgfmig .uwfiyyzfr.uw,gzubgyifgfmidgwhruvgx.qub
fmixigfryygfmingzxigxqwfn,gzubgu.fg .digb.hugzfgzyygf.gt.fmixgm.uiwf
diughrfmgfmirxgjxzupwagFmiguiofgfrdigfmigu.siyrwfgxruvwgfmigtiyygRghryy
u.fgwfrxgfm.qvmgfmigdiifruv-m.qwigtqxugb.huag“FmigWprjg.cgfmi
Frj-F.i-M.j,gzgX.dzu ig.cgfmigDrbbyigZviw,gtngfmig iyitxzfibgzqfm.xg.c
‘Frffyi-F.y-Fzu,’gf.gzjjizxgrugd.ufmyngjzxfw;gzgvxizfgxqwm;gb.u’fgzyy
 .digf.vifmixa”gZyygfmrwgfmingxizbghrfmgwzq ixginiw,gzubgixi fgzub
jxrdrfrsig qxr.wrfn,gzubghrfmgquhizxribgvreezxb,ghm.wig .xxqvzfr.uw
isiugnifguiibgu.gwmzxjiuruv,gkqwfgzwgw.digyrffyigc.qx-nizx-.ybgtiu mix
mrwgfh.- iufgvryf- .sixibgibrfr.ug.cg rubixiyyz,—hrfm.qfgzun
rdjx.sidiuf,gfmzfgRg zugwii,grugfmigjx.uqu rzfr.u,g.xgz  iuf,g.x
idjmzwrw,g.xgzungd.xigwpryygrugiofxz fruvg.xgruwixfruvgfmigd.xzyagFmi
xiwqyfgrwgbqyuiwwg.cgwrvmf,gzgwfzvuzfr.ug.cgfmigsrfzyg rx qyzfr.uw,gzub
zgviuixzygbiyrlqrqdgzubgwy.qvmruvg.ccg.cgzyygfmigrufiyyi fqzy
cz qyfriwagFmrwgw.xfg.cgvruvixtxizbgrwgtzpibgbzryngzubgd.xigwibqy.qwyn
fmzugjqxighmizfg.xgxni-zub-Rubrzugrugzyd.wfgisixng.siu,gzubgcrubwgz
wqxixgdzxpifa

Fmigtiwfgt..pwgzxigu.fgxizbgisiugtngfm.wighm.gzxig zyyibgv..bgxizbixwa
Hmzfgb.iwg.qxg .u .xbg qyfqxigzd.qufgf.?gFmixigrwgrugfmrwgf.hu,ghrfmgz
sixngcihgio ijfr.uw,gu.gfzwfigc.xgfmigtiwfg.xgc.xgsixngv..bgt..pwgisiu
rugIuvyrwmgyrfixzfqxi,ghm.wigh.xbwgzyyg zugxizbgzubgwjiyyagIsiugfmi
 .yyivi-txibgzubgw.g zyyibgyrtixzyyngibq zfibgdiugmixigzubgiywihmixi
mzsigxizyyngyrffyig.xgu.gz lqzrufzu ighrfmgfmigIuvyrwmg yzwwr w;gzubgzw
c.xgfmigxi .xbibghrwb.dg.cgdzuprub,gfmigzu riufg yzwwr wgzubgTrtyiw,
hmr mgzxigz  iwwrtyigf.gzyyghm.ghryygpu.hg.cgfmid,gfmixigzxigfmi
ciityiwfgicc.xfwgzunghmixigdzbigf.gti .digz lqzrufibghrfmgfmidagRgpu.h
zgh..b m.jjix,g.cgdrbbyigzvi,ghm.gfzpiwgzgCxiu mgjzjix,gu.fgc.xguihwgzw
migwznw,gc.xgmigrwgzt.sigfmzf,gtqfgf.g“piijgmrdwiycgrugjxz fr i,”gmi
tiruvgzg zuzbrzugtngtrxfm;gzubghmiugRgzwpgmrdghmzfgmig .uwrbixwgfmi
tiwfgfmruvgmig zugb.grugfmrwgh.xyb,gmigwznw,gtiwrbigfmrw,gf.gpiijgqj
zubgzbbgf.gmrwgIuvyrwmagFmrwgrwgzt.qfgzwgdq mgzwgfmig .yyivigtxib
viuixzyyngb.g.xgzwjrxigf.gb.,gzubgfmingfzpigzugIuvyrwmgjzjixgc.xgfmi
jqxj.wiag.uighm.gmzwgkqwfg .digcx.dgxizbruvgjixmzjwg.uig.cgfmigtiwf
Iuvyrwmgt..pwghryygcrubgm.hgdzunghrfmghm.dgmig zug .usixwigzt.qfgrf?g.x
wqjj.wigmig .diwgcx.dgxizbruvgzgVxiipg.xgYzfrug yzwwr grugfmig.xrvruzy,
hm.wigjxzrwiwgzxigczdryrzxgisiugf.gfmigw.g zyyibgryyrfixzfi;gmighryy
crubgu.t.bngzfgzyygf.gwjizpgf.,gtqfgdqwfgpiijgwryiu igzt.qfgrfagRubiib,
fmixigrwgmzxbyngfmigjx.ciww.xgrug.qxg .yyiviw,ghm.,grcgmigmzwgdzwfixib
fmigbrccr qyfriwg.cgfmigyzuvqzvi,gmzwgjx.j.xfr.uzyyngdzwfixibgfmi
brccr qyfriwg.cgfmighrfgzubgj.ifxng.cgzgVxiipgj.if,gzubgmzwgzun
wndjzfmngf.grdjzxfgf.gfmigzyixfgzubgmix.r gxizbix;gzubgzwgc.xgfmi
wz xibgW xrjfqxiw,g.xgTrtyiwg.cgdzuprub,ghm.grugfmrwgf.hug zugfiyygdi
isiugfmirxgfrfyiw?gD.wfgdiugb.gu.fgpu.hgfmzfgzunguzfr.ugtqfgfmigMitxihw
mzsigmzbgzgw xrjfqxiagZgdzu,gzungdzu,ghryygv.g .uwrbixztyng.qfg.cgmrw
hzngf.gjr pgqjgzgwrysixgb.yyzx;gtqfgmixigzxigv.ybiugh.xbw,ghmr mgfmi
hrwiwfgdiug.cgzufrlqrfngmzsigqffixib,gzubghm.wigh.xfmgfmighrwig.cgisixn
wq  iibruvgzvigmzsigzwwqxibgqwg.c;—zubgnifghigyizxugf.gxizbg.uyngzwgczx
zwgIzwngXizbruv,gfmigjxrdixwgzubg yzww-t..pw,gzubghmiughigyizsigw m..y,
fmig“YrffyigXizbruv,”gzubgwf.xngt..pw,ghmr mgzxigc.xgt.nwgzub
tivruuixw;gzubg.qxgxizbruv,g.qxg .usixwzfr.ugzubgfmrupruv,gzxigzyyg.ugz
sixngy.hgyisiy,gh.xfmng.uyng.cgjnvdriwgzubgdzurpruwa

Rgzwjrxigf.gtigz lqzrufibghrfmghrwixgdiugfmzugfmrwg.qxg .u .xbgw.rygmzw
jx.bq ib,ghm.wiguzdiwgzxigmzxbyngpu.hugmixiag.xgwmzyygRgmizxgfmiguzdi
.cgJyzf.gzubguisixgxizbgmrwgt..p?gZwgrcgJyzf.ghixigdngf.huwdzugzubgR
uisixgwzhgmrd,—dnguiofguirvmt.xgzubgRguisixgmizxbgmrdgwjizpg.xgzffiubib
f.gfmighrwb.dg.cgmrwgh.xbwagTqfgm.hgz fqzyyngrwgrf?gMrwgBrzy.vqiw,
hmr mg .ufzrughmzfghzwgrdd.xfzygrugmrd,gyrig.ugfmiguiofgwmiyc,gzubgnif
RguisixgxizbgfmidagHigzxigqubixtxibgzubgy.h-yrsibgzubgryyrfixzfi;gzub
rugfmrwgxiwji fgRg .uciwwgRgb.gu.fgdzpigzungsixngtx.zbgbrwfru fr.u
tifhiiugfmigryyrfixzfiuiwwg.cgdngf.huwdzughm.g zuu.fgxizbgzfgzyy,gzub
fmigryyrfixzfiuiwwg.cgmrdghm.gmzwgyizxuibgf.gxizbg.uynghmzfgrwgc.x
 mrybxiugzubgciityigrufiyyi fwagHigwm.qybgtigzwgv..bgzwgfmigh.xfmriwg.c
zufrlqrfn,gtqfgjzxfyngtngcrxwfgpu.hruvgm.hgv..bgfminghixiagHigzxigz
xz ig.cgfrf-diu,gzubgw.zxgtqfgyrffyigmrvmixgrug.qxgrufiyyi fqzygcyrvmfw
fmzugfmig .yqduwg.cgfmigbzryngjzjixa

Rfgrwgu.fgzyygt..pwgfmzfgzxigzwgbqyygzwgfmirxgxizbixwagFmixigzxi
jx.tztyngh.xbwgzbbxiwwibgf.g.qxg .ubrfr.ugioz fyn,ghmr m,grcghig .qyb
xizyyngmizxgzubgqubixwfzub,gh.qybgtigd.xigwzyqfzxngfmzugfmigd.xuruvg.x
fmigwjxruvgf.g.qxgyrsiw,gzubgj.wwrtyngjqfgzguihgzwji fg.ugfmigcz ig.c
fmruvwgc.xgqwagM.hgdzungzgdzugmzwgbzfibgzguihgixzgrugmrwgyrcigcx.dgfmi
xizbruvg.cgzgt..pagFmigt..pgiorwfwgc.xgqwgjix mzu ighmr mghryygiojyzru
.qxgdrxz yiwgzubgxisizyguihg.uiwagFmigzfgjxiwiufgquqffixztyigfmruvwghi
dzngcrubgw.dihmixigqffixibagFmiwigwzdiglqiwfr.uwgfmzfgbrwfqxtgzub
jqeeyigzubg .uc.qubgqwgmzsigrugfmirxgfqxug.  qxxibgf.gzyygfmighrwigdiu;
u.fg.uigmzwgtiiug.drffib;gzubgiz mgmzwgzuwhixibgfmid,gz  .xbruvgf.gmrw
ztryrfn,gtngmrwgh.xbwgzubgmrwgyrciagD.xi.six,ghrfmghrwb.dghigwmzyy
yizxugyrtixzyrfnagFmigw.yrfzxngmrxibgdzug.ugzgczxdgrugfmig.qfwprxfwg.c
 .u .xb,ghm.gmzwgmzbgmrwgwi .ubgtrxfmgzubgji qyrzxgxiyrvr.qw
iojixriu i,gzubgrwgbxrsiugzwgmigtiyrisiwgruf.gfmigwryiufgvxzsrfngzub
io yqwrsiuiwwgtngmrwgczrfm,gdzngfmrupgrfgrwgu.fgfxqi;gtqfgE.x.zwfix,
fm.qwzubwg.cgnizxwgzv.,gfxzsiyyibgfmigwzdigx.zbgzubgmzbgfmigwzdi
iojixriu i;gtqfgmi,gtiruvghrwi,gpuihgrfgf.gtigqursixwzy,gzubgfxizfib
mrwguirvmt.xwgz  .xbruvyn,gzubgrwgisiugwzrbgf.gmzsigrusiufibgzub
iwfztyrwmibgh.xwmrjgzd.uvgdiuagYifgmrdgmqdtyng .ddquighrfmgE.x.zwfix
fmiu,gzubgfmx.qvmgfmigyrtixzyreruvgrucyqiu ig.cgzyygfmigh.xfmriw,ghrfm
Kiwqwg mxrwfgmrdwiyc,gzubgyifg“.qxg mqx m”gv.gtngfmigt.zxba

Higt.zwfgfmzfghigtiy.uvgf.gfmiguruifiiufmg iufqxngzubgzxigdzpruvgfmi
d.wfgxzjrbgwfxrbiwg.cgzunguzfr.uagTqfg .uwrbixgm.hgyrffyigfmrwgsryyzvi
b.iwgc.xgrfwg.hug qyfqxiagRgb.gu.fghrwmgf.gcyzffixgdngf.huwdiu,gu.xgf.
tigcyzffixibgtngfmid,gc.xgfmzfghryygu.fgzbszu igirfmixg.cgqwagHiguiib
f.gtigjx.s.pib,—v.zbibgyrpig.oiu,gzwghigzxi,gruf.gzgfx.fagHigmzsigz
 .djzxzfrsiyngbi iufgwnwfidg.cg .dd.ugw m..yw,gw m..ywgc.xgruczufw
.uyn;gtqfgio ijfruvgfmigmzyc-wfzxsibgYn iqdgrugfmighrufix,gzubgyzffixyn
fmigjqungtivruuruvg.cgzgyrtxzxngwqvviwfibgtngfmigwfzfi,gu.gw m..ygc.x
.qxwiysiwagHigwjiubgd.xig.ugzyd.wfgzungzxfr yig.cgt.bryngzyrdiufg.x
zrydiufgfmzug.ug.qxgdiufzygzyrdiufagRfgrwgfrdigfmzfghigmzbgqu .dd.u
w m..yw,gfmzfghigbrbgu.fgyizsig.ccg.qxgibq zfr.ughmiughigtivrugf.gti
diugzubgh.diuagRfgrwgfrdigfmzfgsryyzviwghixigqursixwrfriw,gzubgfmirx
iybixgrumztrfzufwgfmigciyy.hwg.cgqursixwrfriw,ghrfmgyirwqxi—rcgfmingzxi
rubiibgw.ghiyyg.cc—f.gjqxwqigyrtixzygwfqbriwgfmigxiwfg.cgfmirxgyrsiwa
Wmzyygfmigh.xybgtig .ucruibgf.g.uigJzxrwg.xg.uig.oc.xbgc.xisix?g zuu.f
wfqbiufwgtigt.zxbibgmixigzubgvifgzgyrtixzygibq zfr.ugqubixgfmigwpriwg.c
 .u .xb?g zughigu.fgmrxigw.digZtiyzxbgf.gyi fqxigf.gqw?gZyzw!ghmzfghrfm
c.bbixruvgfmig zffyigzubgfiubruvgfmigwf.xi,ghigzxigpijfgcx.dgw m..ygf..
y.uv,gzubg.qxgibq zfr.ugrwgwzbynguivyi fibagRugfmrwg .qufxn,gfmi
sryyzvigwm.qybgrugw.digxiwji fwgfzpigfmigjyz ig.cgfmigu.tyidzug.c
Iqx.jiagRfgwm.qybgtigfmigjzfx.ug.cgfmigcruigzxfwagRfgrwgxr mgiu.qvmagRf
hzufwg.uyngfmigdzvuzurdrfngzubgxicruidiufagRfg zugwjiubgd.uingiu.qvmg.u
wq mgfmruvwgzwgczxdixwgzubgfxzbixwgszyqi,gtqfgrfgrwgfm.qvmfgQf.jrzugf.
jx.j.wigwjiubruvgd.uingc.xgfmruvwghmr mgd.xigrufiyyrviufgdiugpu.hgf.gti
.cgczxgd.xigh.xfmagFmrwgf.hugmzwgwjiufgwisiufiiugfm.qwzubgb.yyzxwg.ugz
f.hu-m.qwi,gfmzupgc.xfquig.xgj.yrfr w,gtqfgjx.tztyngrfghryygu.fgwjiub
w.gdq mg.ugyrsruvghrf,gfmigfxqigdizfgf.gjqfgruf.gfmzfgwmiyy,grugz
mqubxibgnizxwagFmig.uigmqubxibgzubgfhiufn-crsigb.yyzxwgzuuqzyyn
wqtw xrtibgc.xgzgYn iqdgrugfmighrufixgrwgtiffixgwjiufgfmzugzung.fmix
ilqzygwqdgxzrwibgrugfmigf.huagRcghigyrsigrugfmiguruifiiufmg iufqxn,ghmn
wm.qybghigu.fgiuk.ngfmigzbszufzviwghmr mgfmiguruifiiufmg iufqxng.ccixw?
Hmngwm.qybg.qxgyrcigtigrugzungxiwji fgjx.sru rzy?gRcghighryygxizb
uihwjzjixw,ghmngu.fgwprjgfmigv.wwrjg.cgT.wf.ugzubgfzpigfmigtiwf
uihwjzjixgrugfmigh.xybgzfg.u i?—u.fgtigwq pruvgfmigjzjg.cg“uiqfxzy
czdryn”gjzjixw,g.xgtx.hwruvg“.yrsi-Txzu miw”gmixigrugUihgIuvyzubagYif
fmigxij.xfwg.cgzyygfmigyizxuibgw. rifriwg .digf.gqw,gzubghighryygwiigrc
fmingpu.hgzungfmruvagHmngwm.qybghigyizsigrfgf.gMzxjixg&gTx.fmixwgzub
Xibbruvg&g .agf.gwiyi fg.qxgxizbruv?gZwgfmigu.tyidzug.cg qyfrszfib
fzwfigwqxx.qubwgmrdwiycghrfmghmzfisixg .ubq iwgf.gmrw
 qyfqxi,—viurqw—yizxuruv—hrf—t..pw—jzrufruvw—wfzfqzxn—dqwr —
jmry.w.jmr zygruwfxqdiufw,gzubgfmigyrpi;gw.gyifgfmigsryyzvigb.,—u.f
wf.jgwm.xfgzfgzgjibzv.vqi,gzgjzxw.u,gzgwiof.u,gzgjzxrwmgyrtxzxn,gzub
fmxiigwiyi fdiu,gti zqwig.qxgjryvxrdgc.xiczfmixwgv.fgfmx.qvmgzg .yb
hrufixg.u ig.ugzgtyizpgx. pghrfmgfmiwiagF.gz fg .yyi frsiyngrw
z  .xbruvgf.gfmigwjrxrfg.cg.qxgruwfrfqfr.uw;gzubgRgzdg .ucrbiufgfmzf,
zwg.qxg rx qdwfzu iwgzxigd.xigcy.qxrwmruv,g.qxgdizuwgzxigvxizfixgfmzu
fmigu.tyidzu’wagUihgIuvyzubg zugmrxigzyygfmighrwigdiugrugfmigh.xybgf.
 .digzubgfiz mgmix,gzubgt.zxbgfmidgx.qubgfmighmryi,gzubgu.fgti
jx.sru rzygzfgzyyagFmzfgrwgfmig_qu .dd.u_gw m..yghighzufagRuwfizbg.c
u.tyidiu,gyifgqwgmzsigu.tyigsryyzviwg.cgdiuagRcgrfgrwgui iwwzxn,g.drf
.uigtxrbvig.sixgfmigxrsix,gv.gx.qubgzgyrffyigfmixi,gzubgfmx.hg.uigzx m
zfgyizwfg.sixgfmigbzxpixgvqycg.cgrvu.xzu ighmr mgwqxx.qubwgqwa


W.qubw

Tqfghmryighigzxig .ucruibgf.gt..pw,gfm.qvmgfmigd.wfgwiyi fgzubg yzwwr ,
zubgxizbg.uyngjzxfr qyzxghxrffiugyzuvqzviw,ghmr mgzxigfmidwiysiwgtqf
brzyi fwgzubgjx.sru rzy,ghigzxigrugbzuvixg.cgc.xviffruvgfmigyzuvqzvi
hmr mgzyygfmruvwgzubgisiufwgwjizpghrfm.qfgdifzjm.x,ghmr mgzy.uigrw
 .jr.qwgzubgwfzubzxbagDq mgrwgjqtyrwmib,gtqfgyrffyigjxrufibagFmigxznw
hmr mgwfxizdgfmx.qvmgfmigwmqffixghryygtigu.gy.uvixgxididtixibghmiugfmi
wmqffixgrwghm.yyngxid.sibagU.gdifm.bgu.xgbrw rjyruig zugwqjixwibigfmi
ui iwwrfng.cgtiruvgc.xisixg.ugfmigzyixfagHmzfgrwgzg .qxwig.cgmrwf.xn,
.xgjmry.w.jmn,g.xgj.ifxn,gu.gdzffixgm.hghiyygwiyi fib,g.xgfmigtiwf
w. rifn,g.xgfmigd.wfgzbdrxztyigx.qfruig.cgyrci,g .djzxibghrfmgfmi
brw rjyruig.cgy..pruvgzyhznwgzfghmzfgrwgf.gtigwiiu?gHryygn.qgtigz
xizbix,gzgwfqbiufgdixiyn,g.xgzgwiix?gXizbgn.qxgczfi,gwiighmzfgrwgtic.xi
n.q,gzubghzypg.ugruf.gcqfqxrfna

Rgbrbgu.fgxizbgt..pwgfmigcrxwfgwqddix;gRgm.ibgtizuwagUzn,gRg.cfiugbrb
tiffixgfmzugfmrwagFmixighixigfrdiwghmiugRg .qybgu.fgzcc.xbgf.gwz xrcr i
fmigty..dg.cgfmigjxiwiufgd.diufgf.gzungh.xp,ghmifmixg.cgfmigmizbg.x
mzubwagRgy.sigzgtx.zbgdzxvrugf.gdngyrciagW.difrdiw,grugzgwqddix
d.xuruv,gmzsruvgfzpiugdngz  qwf.dibgtzfm,gRgwzfgrugdngwquungb..xhzn
cx.dgwquxrwigfryygu..u,gxzjfgrugzgxisixn,gzdrbwfgfmigjruiwgzub
mr p.xriwgzubgwqdz mw,grugqubrwfqxtibgw.yrfqbigzubgwfryyuiww,ghmryigfmi
trxbwgwruvgzx.qubg.xgcyrffibgu.rwiyiwwgfmx.qvmgfmigm.qwi,gqufrygtngfmi
wqugczyyruvgrugzfgdnghiwfghrub.h,g.xgfmigu.rwig.cgw.digfxzsiyyix’w
hzv.ug.ugfmigbrwfzufgmrvmhzn,gRghzwgxidrubibg.cgfmigyzjwig.cgfrdiagR
vxihgrugfm.wigwizw.uwgyrpig .xugrugfmigurvmf,gzubgfminghixigczxgtiffix
fmzugzungh.xpg.cgfmigmzubwgh.qybgmzsigtiiuagFminghixigu.fgfrdi
wqtfxz fibgcx.dgdngyrci,gtqfgw.gdq mg.sixgzubgzt.sigdngqwqzygzyy.hzu ia
Rgxizyreibghmzfgfmig.xriufzywgdizugtng .ufidjyzfr.ugzubgfmigc.xwzpruv
.cgh.xpwagC.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,gRgdrubibgu.fgm.hgfmigm.qxwghiufagFmigbzn
zbszu ibgzwgrcgf.gyrvmfgw.digh.xpg.cgdrui;grfghzwgd.xuruv,gzubgy.,gu.h
rfgrwgisiuruv,gzubgu.fmruvgdid.xztyigrwgz  .djyrwmibagRuwfizbg.c
wruvruvgyrpigfmigtrxbw,gRgwryiufyngwdryibgzfgdngru iwwzufgv..bgc.xfquia
Zwgfmigwjzxx.hgmzbgrfwgfxryy,gwrffruvg.ugfmigmr p.xngtic.xigdngb..x,gw.
mzbgRgdng mq pyig.xgwqjjxiwwibghzxtyighmr mgmigdrvmfgmizxg.qfg.cgdn
uiwfagDngbznwghixigu.fgbznwg.cgfmighiip,gtizxruvgfmigwfzdjg.cgzun
mizfmiugbirfn,gu.xghixigfmingdru ibgruf.gm.qxwgzubgcxiffibgtngfmi
fr pruvg.cgzg y. p;gc.xgRgyrsibgyrpigfmigJqxrgRubrzuw,g.cghm.dgrfgrw
wzrbgfmzfg“c.xgniwfixbzn,gf.-bzn,gzubgf.-d.xx.hgfmingmzsig.uyng.ui
h.xb,gzubgfmingiojxiwwgfmigszxrifng.cgdizuruvgtngj.rufruvgtz phzxbgc.x
niwfixbzn,gc.xhzxbgc.xgf.-d.xx.h,gzubg.sixmizbgc.xgfmigjzwwruvgbzna”
Fmrwghzwgwmiixgrbyiuiwwgf.gdngciyy.h-f.huwdiu,gu.gb.qtf;gtqfgrcgfmi
trxbwgzubgcy.hixwgmzbgfxribgdigtngfmirxgwfzubzxb,gRgwm.qybgu.fgmzsi
tiiugc.qubghzufruvagZgdzugdqwfgcrubgmrwg.  zwr.uwgrugmrdwiyc,grfgrw
fxqiagFmiguzfqxzygbzngrwgsixng zyd,gzubghryygmzxbyngxijx.sigmrw
rub.yiu ia

Rgmzbgfmrwgzbszufzvi,gzfgyizwf,grugdngd.big.cgyrci,g.sixgfm.wighm.ghixi
.tyrvibgf.gy..pgztx.zbgc.xgzdqwidiuf,gf.gw. rifngzubgfmigfmizfxi,gfmzf
dngyrcigrfwiycghzwgti .digdngzdqwidiufgzubguisixg izwibgf.gtigu.siyagRf
hzwgzgbxzdzg.cgdzungw iuiwgzubghrfm.qfgzugiubagRcghighixigzyhznwgrubiib
viffruvg.qxgyrsruv,gzubgxivqyzfruvg.qxgyrsiwgz  .xbruvgf.gfmigyzwfgzub
tiwfgd.bighigmzbgyizxuib,ghigwm.qybguisixgtigfx.qtyibghrfmgiuuqra
C.yy.hgn.qxgviurqwg y.wiyngiu.qvm,gzubgrfghryygu.fgczrygf.gwm.hgn.qgz
cxiwmgjx.wji fgisixngm.qxagM.qwih.xpghzwgzgjyizwzufgjzwfrdiagHmiugdn
cy..xghzwgbrxfn,gRgx.wigizxyn,gzub,gwiffruvgzyygdngcqxurfqxig.qfg.c
b..xwg.ugfmigvxzww,gtibgzubgtibwfizbgdzpruvgtqfg.uigtqbvif,gbzwmib
hzfixg.ugfmigcy..x,gzubgwjxrupyibghmrfigwzubgcx.dgfmigj.ubg.ugrf,gzub
fmiughrfmgzgtx..dgw xqttibgrfg yizugzubghmrfi;gzubgtngfmigfrdigfmi
sryyzvixwgmzbgtx.piugfmirxgczwfgfmigd.xuruvgwqugmzbgbxribgdngm.qwi
wqccr riufyngf.gzyy.hgdigf.gd.sigrugzvzru,gzubgdngdibrfzfr.uwghixi
zyd.wfgqurufixqjfibagRfghzwgjyizwzufgf.gwiigdnghm.yigm.qwim.ybgicci fw
.qfg.ugfmigvxzww,gdzpruvgzgyrffyigjryigyrpigzgvnjwn’wgjz p,gzubgdn
fmxii-yivvibgfztyi,gcx.dghmr mgRgbrbgu.fgxid.sigfmigt..pwgzubgjiugzub
rup,gwfzubruvgzdrbgfmigjruiwgzubgmr p.xriwagFmingwiidibgvyzbgf.gvifg.qf
fmidwiysiw,gzubgzwgrcgquhryyruvgf.gtigtx.qvmfgruagRghzwgw.difrdiw
fidjfibgf.gwfxif mgzugzhuruvg.sixgfmidgzubgfzpigdngwizfgfmixiagRfghzw
h.xfmgfmighmryigf.gwiigfmigwqugwmruig.ugfmiwigfmruvw,gzubgmizxgfmigcxii
hrubgty.hg.ugfmid;gw.gdq mgd.xigrufixiwfruvgd.wfgczdryrzxg.tki fwgy..p
.qfg.cgb..xwgfmzugrugfmigm.qwiagZgtrxbgwrfwg.ugfmiguiofgt.qvm,
yrci-isixyzwfruvgvx.hwgqubixgfmigfztyi,gzubgtyz ptixxngsruiwgxqugx.qub
rfwgyivw;gjruig .uiw,g miwfuqfgtqxw,gzubgwfxzhtixxngyizsiwgzxigwfxihu
zt.qfagRfgy..pibgzwgrcgfmrwghzwgfmighzngfmiwigc.xdwg zdigf.gti
fxzuwcixxibgf.g.qxgcqxurfqxi,gf.gfztyiw,g mzrxw,gzubgtibwfizbw,—ti zqwi
fming.u igwf..bgrugfmirxgdrbwfa

Dngm.qwighzwg.ugfmigwrbig.cgzgmryy,grddibrzfiyng.ugfmigibvig.cgfmi
yzxvixgh..b,grugfmigdrbwfg.cgzgn.quvgc.xiwfg.cgjrf mgjruiwgzub
mr p.xriw,gzubgmzycgzgb.eiugx.bwgcx.dgfmigj.ub,gf.ghmr mgzguzxx.h
c..fjzfmgyibgb.hugfmigmryyagRugdngcx.ufgnzxbgvxihgfmigwfxzhtixxn,
tyz ptixxn,gzubgyrci-isixyzwfruv,gk.muwh.xfgzubgv.ybiux.b,gwmxqt-.zpw
zubgwzub- mixxn,gtyqitixxngzubgvx.qubuqfagUizxgfmigiubg.cgDzn,gfmi
wzub- mixxng(_ ixzwqwgjqdryz_,)gzb.xuibgfmigwrbiwg.cgfmigjzfmghrfmgrfw
biyr zfigcy.hixwgzxxzuvibgrugqdtiywg nyrubxr zyyngzt.qfgrfwgwm.xf
wfidw,ghmr mgyzwf,grugfmigczyy,ghirvmibgb.hughrfmgv..bgwreibgzub
mzubw.dig mixxriw,gciyyg.sixgrughxizfmwgyrpigxznwg.ugisixngwrbiagR
fzwfibgfmidg.qfg.cg .djyrdiufgf.gUzfqxi,gfm.qvmgfminghixigw zx iyn
jzyzfztyiagFmigwqdz mg(_Xmqwgvyztxz_,)gvxihgyqoqxrzufyngzt.qfgfmi
m.qwi,gjqwmruvgqjgfmx.qvmgfmigidtzupdiufghmr mgRgmzbgdzbi,gzubgvx.hruv
crsig.xgwrogciifgfmigcrxwfgwizw.uagRfwgtx.zbgjruuzfigfx.jr zygyizcghzw
jyizwzufgfm.qvmgwfxzuvigf.gy..pg.uagFmigyzxvigtqbw,gwqbbiuyngjqwmruv
.qfgyzfigrugfmigwjxruvgcx.dgbxngwfr pwghmr mgmzbgwiidibgf.gtigbizb,
bisiy.jibgfmidwiysiwgzwgtngdzvr gruf.gvxz icqygvxiiugzubgfiubixgt.qvmw,
zugru mgrugbrzdifix;gzubgw.difrdiw,gzwgRgwzfgzfgdnghrub.h,gw.
miibyiwwyngbrbgfmingvx.hgzubgfzogfmirxghizpgk.rufw,gRgmizxbgzgcxiwmgzub
fiubixgt.qvmgwqbbiuyngczyygyrpigzgczugf.gfmigvx.qub,ghmiugfmixighzwgu.f
zgtxizfmg.cgzrxgwfrxxruv,gtx.piug.ccgtngrfwg.hughirvmfagRugZqvqwf,gfmi
yzxvigdzwwiwg.cgtixxriw,ghmr m,ghmiugrugcy.hix,gmzbgzffxz fibgdzunghryb
tiiw,gvxzbqzyyngzwwqdibgfmirxgtxrvmfgsiysifng xrdw.ugmqi,gzubgtngfmirx
hirvmfgzvzrugtiufgb.hugzubgtx.pigfmigfiubixgyrdtwa



ZwgRgwrfgzfgdnghrub.hgfmrwgwqddixgzcfixu..u,gmzhpwgzxig rx yruvgzt.qf
dng yizxruv;gfmigfzufrsng.cghrybgjrvi.uw,gcynruvgtngfh.wgzubgfmxiiw
zfmhzxfgdngsrih,g.xgjix mruvgxiwfyiwwg.ugfmighmrfi-jruigt.qvmwgtimrub
dngm.qwi,gvrsiwgzgs.r igf.gfmigzrx;gzgcrwmmzhpgbrdjyiwgfmigvyzwwn
wqxcz ig.cgfmigj.ubgzubgtxruvwgqjgzgcrwm;gzgdrupgwfizywg.qfg.cgfmi
dzxwmgtic.xigdngb..xgzubgwireiwgzgcx.vgtngfmigwm.xi;gfmigwibvigrw
tiubruvgqubixgfmighirvmfg.cgfmigxiib-trxbwgcyrffruvgmrfmixgzubgfmrfmix;
zubgc.xgfmigyzwfgmzycgm.qxgRgmzsigmizxbgfmigxzffyig.cgxzryx.zbg zxw,
u.hgbnruvgzhzngzubgfmiugxisrsruvgyrpigfmigtizfg.cgzgjzxfxrbvi,
 .usinruvgfxzsiyyixwgcx.dgT.wf.ugf.gfmig .qufxnagC.xgRgbrbgu.fgyrsigw.
.qfg.cgfmigh.xybgzwgfmzfgt.nghm.,gzwgRgmizx,ghzwgjqfg.qfgf.gzgczxdixgru
fmigizwfgjzxfg.cgfmigf.hu,gtqfgixigy.uvgxzugzhzngzubg zdigm.digzvzru,
lqrfigb.hugzfgfmigmiiygzubgm.diwr pagMigmzbguisixgwiiugwq mgzgbqyygzub
.qf-.c-fmi-hzngjyz i;gfmigc.ypwghixigzyygv.uig.cc;ghmn,gn.qg .qybu’f
isiugmizxgfmighmrwfyi!gRgb.qtfgrcgfmixigrwgwq mgzgjyz igru
Dzwwz mqwiffwgu.h:—

ggggg“Rugfxqfm,g.qxgsryyzvigmzwgti .digzgtqff
gggggC.xg.uig.cgfm.wigcyiifgxzryx.zbgwmzcfw,gzubg.’ix
ggggg.qxgjiz icqygjyzrugrfwgw..fmruvgw.qubgrw— .u .xba”

FmigCrf mtqxvgXzryx.zbgf.q miwgfmigj.ubgzt.qfgzgmqubxibgx.bwgw.qfmg.c
hmixigRgbhiyyagRgqwqzyyngv.gf.gfmigsryyzvigzy.uvgrfwg zqwihzn,gzubgzd,
zwgrfghixi,gxiyzfibgf.gw. rifngtngfmrwgyrupagFmigdiug.ugfmigcxirvmf
fxzruw,ghm.gv.g.sixgfmighm.yigyiuvfmg.cgfmigx.zb,gt.hgf.gdigzwgf.gzu
.ybgz lqzrufzu i,gfmingjzwwgdigw.g.cfiu,gzubgzjjzxiufyngfmingfzpigdi
c.xgzugidjy.nii;gzubgw.gRgzdagRgf..gh.qybgczrugtigzgfxz p-xijzrxix
w.dihmixigrugfmig.xtrfg.cgfmigizxfma

Fmighmrwfyig.cgfmigy. .d.frsigjiuifxzfiwgdngh..bwgwqddixgzubghrufix,
w.qubruvgyrpigfmigw xizdg.cgzgmzhpgwzryruvg.sixgw.digczxdix’wgnzxb,
ruc.xdruvgdigfmzfgdzungxiwfyiwwg rfngdix mzufwgzxigzxxrsruvghrfmrugfmi
 rx yig.cgfmigf.hu,g.xgzbsiufqx.qwg .qufxngfxzbixwgcx.dgfmig.fmixgwrbia
Zwgfming .digqubixg.uigm.xre.u,gfmingwm.qfgfmirxghzxuruvgf.gvifg.ccgfmi
fxz pgf.gfmig.fmix,gmizxbgw.difrdiwgfmx.qvmgfmig rx yiwg.cgfh.gf.huwa
Mixig .dign.qxgvx. ixriw,g .qufxn;gn.qxgxzfr.uw,g .qufxndiu!gU.xgrw
fmixigzungdzugw.grubijiubiufg.ugmrwgczxdgfmzfgmig zugwzngfmidguznagZub
mixi’wgn.qxgjzngc.xgfmid!gw xizdwgfmig .qufxndzu’wghmrwfyi;gfrdtixgyrpi
y.uvgtzffixruvgxzdwgv.ruvgfhiufngdryiwgzugm.qxgzvzruwfgfmig rfn’w
hzyyw,gzubg mzrxwgiu.qvmgf.gwizfgzyygfmighizxngzubgmizsngyzbiugfmzf
bhiyyghrfmrugfmidagHrfmgwq mgmqvigzubgyqdtixruvg rsryrfngfmig .qufxn
mzubwgzg mzrxgf.gfmig rfnagZyygfmigRubrzugmq pyitixxngmryywgzxi
wfxrjjib,gzyygfmig xzutixxngdizb.hwgzxigxzpibgruf.gfmig rfnagQjg .diw
fmig .ff.u,gb.hugv.iwgfmigh.siug y.fm;gqjg .diwgfmigwryp,gb.hugv.iwgfmi
h..yyiu;gqjg .digfmigt..pw,gtqfgb.hugv.iwgfmighrfgfmzfghxrfiwgfmida

HmiugRgdiifgfmigiuvruighrfmgrfwgfxzrug.cg zxwgd.sruvg.ccghrfmgjyzuifzxn
d.fr.u,—.x,gxzfmix,gyrpigzg .dif,gc.xgfmigtim.ybixgpu.hwgu.fgrcghrfm
fmzfgsiy. rfngzubghrfmgfmzfgbrxi fr.ugrfghryygisixgxisrwrfgfmrwgwnwfid,
wru igrfwg.xtrfgb.iwgu.fgy..pgyrpigzgxifqxuruvg qxsi,—hrfmgrfwgwfizd
 y.qbgyrpigzgtzuuixgwfxizdruvgtimrubgrugv.ybiugzubgwrysixghxizfmw,gyrpi
dzungzgb.hung y.qbghmr mgRgmzsigwiiu,gmrvmgrugfmigmizsiuw,gquc.ybruv
rfwgdzwwiwgf.gfmigyrvmf,—zwgrcgfmrwgfxzsiyyruvgbidrv.b,gfmrw
 y.qb- .djiyyix,gh.qybgixigy.uvgfzpigfmigwquwifgwpngc.xgfmigyrsixng.c
mrwgfxzru;ghmiugRgmizxgfmigrx.ugm.xwigdzpigfmigmryywgi m.ghrfmgmrw
wu.xfgyrpigfmqubix,gwmzpruvgfmigizxfmghrfmgmrwgciif,gzubgtxizfmruvgcrxi
zubgwd.pigcx.dgmrwgu.wfxryw,g(hmzfgprubg.cghruvibgm.xwig.xgcrixngbxzv.u
fminghryygjqfgruf.gfmiguihgDnfm.y.vngRgb.u’fgpu.h),grfgwiidwgzwgrcgfmi
izxfmgmzbgv.fgzgxz igu.hgh.xfmngf.grumztrfgrfagRcgzyyghixigzwgrfgwiidw,
zubgdiugdzbigfmigiyidiufwgfmirxgwixszufwgc.xgu.tyigiubw!gRcgfmig y.qb
fmzfgmzuvwg.sixgfmigiuvruighixigfmigjixwjrxzfr.ug.cgmix.r gbiibw,g.xgzw
tiuicr iufgzwgfmzfghmr mgcy.zfwg.sixgfmigczxdix’wgcriybw,gfmiugfmi
iyidiufwgzubgUzfqxigmixwiycgh.qybg miixcqyyngz  .djzungdiug.ugfmirx
ixxzubwgzubgtigfmirxgiw .xfa

Rghzf mgfmigjzwwzvig.cgfmigd.xuruvg zxwghrfmgfmigwzdigciiyruvgfmzfgRgb.
fmigxrwruvg.cgfmigwqu,ghmr mgrwgmzxbyngd.xigxivqyzxagFmirxgfxzrug.c
 y.qbwgwfxif mruvgczxgtimrubgzubgxrwruvgmrvmixgzubgmrvmix,gv.ruvgf.
mizsiughmryigfmig zxwgzxigv.ruvgf.gT.wf.u,g .u izywgfmigwqugc.xgz
druqfigzubg zwfwgdngbrwfzufgcriybgruf.gfmigwmzbi,gzg iyiwfrzygfxzru
tiwrbighmr mgfmigjiffngfxzrug.cg zxwghmr mgmqvwgfmigizxfmgrwgtqfgfmi
tzxtg.cgfmigwjizxagFmigwfztyixg.cgfmigrx.ugm.xwighzwgqjgizxyngfmrw
hrufixgd.xuruvgtngfmigyrvmfg.cgfmigwfzxwgzdrbgfmigd.qufzruw,gf.gc.bbix
zubgmzxuiwwgmrwgwfiibagCrxi,gf..,ghzwgzhzpiuibgfmqwgizxyngf.gjqfgfmi
srfzygmizfgrugmrdgzubgvifgmrdg.ccagRcgfmigiufixjxrwighixigzwgruu. iuf
zwgrfgrwgizxyn!gRcgfmigwu.hgyriwgbiij,gfmingwfxzjg.ugmrwgwu.h-wm.iw,
zubghrfmgfmigvrzufgjy.h,gjy.hgzgcqxx.hgcx.dgfmigd.qufzruwgf.gfmi
wizt.zxb,grughmr mgfmig zxw,gyrpigzgc.yy.hruvgbxryy-tzxx.h,gwjxrupyi
zyygfmigxiwfyiwwgdiugzubgcy.zfruvgdix mzubrwigrugfmig .qufxngc.xgwiiba
Zyygbzngfmigcrxi-wfiibgcyriwg.sixgfmig .qufxn,gwf.jjruvg.uyngfmzfgmrw
dzwfixgdzngxiwf,gzubgRgzdgzhzpiuibgtngmrwgfxzdjgzubgbicrzufgwu.xfgzf
drburvmf,ghmiugrugw.digxid.figvyiugrugfmigh..bwgmigcx.ufwgfmigiyidiufw
ru zwibgrugr igzubgwu.h;gzubgmighryygxiz mgmrwgwfzyyg.uynghrfmgfmi
d.xuruvgwfzx,gf.gwfzxfg.u igd.xig.ugmrwgfxzsiywghrfm.qfgxiwfg.x
wyqdtixag.xgjix mzu i,gzfgisiuruv,gRgmizxgmrdgrugmrwgwfztyigty.hruvg.cc
fmigwqjixcyq.qwgiuixvng.cgfmigbzn,gfmzfgmigdzng zydgmrwguixsiwgzubg ..y
mrwgyrsixgzubgtxzrugc.xgzgcihgm.qxwg.cgrx.ugwyqdtixagRcgfmigiufixjxrwi
hixigzwgmix.r gzubg .ddzubruvgzwgrfgrwgjx.fxz fibgzubgquhizxrib!

Czxgfmx.qvmgqucxilqiufibgh..bwg.ugfmig .ucruiwg.cgf.huw,ghmixig.u i
.uyngfmigmqufixgjiuifxzfibgtngbzn,grugfmigbzxpiwfgurvmfgbzxfgfmiwi
txrvmfgwzy..uwghrfm.qfgfmigpu.hyibvig.cgfmirxgrumztrfzufw;gfmrwgd.diuf
wf.jjruvgzfgw.digtxryyrzufgwfzfr.u-m.qwigrugf.hug.xg rfn,ghmixigz
w. rzyg x.hbgrwgvzfmixib,gfmiguiofgrugfmigBrwdzygWhzdj,gw zxruvgfmig.hy
zubgc.oagFmigwfzxfruvwgzubgzxxrszywg.cgfmig zxwgzxigu.hgfmigij. mwgru
fmigsryyzvigbznagFmingv.gzubg .dighrfmgwq mgxivqyzxrfngzubgjxi rwr.u,
zubgfmirxghmrwfyig zugtigmizxbgw.gczx,gfmzfgfmigczxdixwgwifgfmirx
 y. pwgtngfmid,gzubgfmqwg.uighiyyg .ubq fibgruwfrfqfr.ugxivqyzfiwgz
hm.yig .qufxnagMzsigu.fgdiugrdjx.sibgw.dihmzfgrugjqu fqzyrfngwru igfmi
xzryx.zbghzwgrusiufib?gB.gfmingu.fgfzypgzubgfmrupgczwfixgrugfmigbij.f
fmzugfmingbrbgrugfmigwfzvi-.ccr i?gFmixigrwgw.difmruvgiyi fxrcnruvgru
fmigzfd.wjmixig.cgfmigc.xdixgjyz iagRgmzsigtiiugzwf.urwmibgzfgfmi
drxz yiwgrfgmzwghx.qvmf;gfmzfgw.dig.cgdnguirvmt.xw,ghm.,gRgwm.qybgmzsi
jx.jmiwrib,g.u igc.xgzyy,gh.qybguisixgvifgf.gT.wf.ugtngw.gjx.djfgz
 .usinzu i,gzxig.ugmzubghmiugfmigtiyygxruvwagF.gb.gfmruvwg“xzryx.zb
czwmr.u”grwgu.hgfmigtn-h.xb;gzubgrfgrwgh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gtighzxuibgw.
.cfiugzubgw.gwru ixiyngtngzungj.hixgf.gvifg.ccgrfwgfxz pagFmixigrwgu.
wf.jjruvgf.gxizbgfmigxr.fgz f,gu.gcrxruvg.sixgfmigmizbwg.cgfmigd.t,gru
fmrwg zwiagHigmzsig .uwfxq fibgzgczfi,gzug_Zfx.j.w_,gfmzfguisixgfqxuw
zwrbiag(Yifgfmzfgtigfmiguzdig.cgn.qxgiuvruia)gDiugzxigzbsixfrwibgfmzf
zfgzg ixfzrugm.qxgzubgdruqfigfmiwigt.yfwghryygtigwm.fgf.hzxbgjzxfr qyzx
j.rufwg.cgfmig .djzww;gnifgrfgrufixcixiwghrfmgu.gdzu’wgtqwruiww,gzub
fmig mrybxiugv.gf.gw m..yg.ugfmig.fmixgfxz pagHigyrsigfmigwfizbrixgc.x
rfagHigzxigzyygibq zfibgfmqwgf.gtigw.uwg.cgFiyyagFmigzrxgrwgcqyyg.c
rusrwrtyigt.yfwagIsixngjzfmgtqfgn.qxg.hugrwgfmigjzfmg.cgczfiagPiijg.u
n.qxg.hugfxz p,gfmiua

Hmzfgxi .ddiubwg .ddix igf.gdigrwgrfwgiufixjxrwigzubgtxzsixnagRfgb.iw
u.fg yzwjgrfwgmzubwgzubgjxzngf.gKqjrfixagRgwiigfmiwigdiugisixngbzngv.
zt.qfgfmirxgtqwruiwwghrfmgd.xig.xgyiwwg .qxzvigzubg .ufiuf,gb.ruvgd.xi
isiugfmzugfmingwqwji f,gzubgjix mzu igtiffixgidjy.nibgfmzugfming .qyb
mzsig .uw r.qwyngbisrwibagRgzdgyiwwgzcci fibgtngfmirxgmix.rwdghm.gwf..b
qjgc.xgmzycgzugm.qxgrugfmigcx.ufgyruigzfgTqiuzgSrwfz,gfmzugtngfmi
wfizbngzubg miixcqygszy.xg.cgfmigdiughm.grumztrfgfmigwu.h-jy.qvmgc.x
fmirxghrufixglqzxfixw;ghm.gmzsigu.fgdixiyngfmigfmxii-.’- y. pgrugfmi
d.xuruvg .qxzvi,ghmr mgT.uzjzxfigfm.qvmfghzwgfmigxzxiwf,gtqfghm.wi
 .qxzvigb.iwgu.fgv.gf.gxiwfgw.gizxyn,ghm.gv.gf.gwyiijg.uynghmiugfmi
wf.xdgwyiijwg.xgfmigwruihwg.cgfmirxgrx.ugwfiibgzxigcx.eiuag.ugfmrw
d.xuruvg.cgfmigVxizfgWu.h,gjix mzu i,ghmr mgrwgwfryygxzvruvgzub
 mryyruvgdiu’wgty..b,gRgmizxgfmigdqccyibgf.uig.cgfmirxgiuvruigtiyygcx.d
.qfgfmigc.vgtzupg.cgfmirxg mryyibgtxizfm,ghmr mgzuu.qu iwgfmzfgfmig zxw
_zxig .druv_,ghrfm.qfgy.uvgbiyzn,gu.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmigsif.g.cgzgUih
Iuvyzubgu.xfm-izwfgwu.hgwf.xd,gzubgRgtim.ybgfmigjy.qvmdiug .sixibghrfm
wu.hgzubgxrdi,gfmirxgmizbwgjiixruv,gzt.sigfmigd.qyb-t.zxbghmr mgrw
fqxuruvgb.hug.fmixgfmzugbzrwriwgzubgfmiguiwfwg.cgcriyb-dr i,gyrpi
t.hybixwg.cgfmigWrixxzgUiszbz,gfmzfg.  qjngzug.qfwrbigjyz igrugfmi
qursixwia

 .ddix igrwgquioji fibyng .ucrbiufgzubgwixiui,gzyixf,gzbsiufqx.qw,gzub
quhizxribagRfgrwgsixnguzfqxzygrugrfwgdifm.bwghrfmzy,gczxgd.xigw.gfmzu
dzungczufzwfr giufixjxrwiwgzubgwiufrdiufzygiojixrdiufw,gzubgmiu igrfw
wruvqyzxgwq  iwwagRgzdgxicxiwmibgzubgiojzubibghmiugfmigcxirvmfgfxzru
xzffyiwgjzwfgdi,gzubgRgwdiyygfmigwf.xiwghmr mgv.gbrwjiuwruvgfmirxg.b.xw
zyygfmighzngcx.dgY.uvgHmzxcgf.gYzpig mzdjyzru,gxidrubruvgdig.cgc.xirvu
jzxfw,g.cg .xzygxiicw,gzubgRubrzug. izuw,gzubgfx.jr zyg yrdiw,gzubgfmi
iofiufg.cgfmigvy.tiagRgciiygd.xigyrpigzg rfreiug.cgfmigh.xybgzfgfmi
wrvmfg.cgfmigjzyd-yizcghmr mghryyg .sixgw.gdzungcyzoiugUihgIuvyzub
mizbwgfmiguiofgwqddix,gfmigDzuryyzgmidjgzubg . .z-uqfgmqwpw,gfmig.yb
kqup,gvquungtzvw,gw xzjgrx.u,gzubgxqwfnguzrywagFmrwg zx-y.zbg.cgf.xu
wzrywgrwgd.xigyivrtyigzubgrufixiwfruvgu.hgfmzugrcgfmingwm.qybgti
hx.qvmfgruf.gjzjixgzubgjxrufibgt..pwagHm.g zughxrfigw.gvxzjmr zyyngfmi
mrwf.xng.cgfmigwf.xdwgfmingmzsighizfmixibgzwgfmiwigxiufwgmzsigb.ui?
Fmingzxigjx..c-wmiifwghmr mguiibgu.g .xxi fr.uagMixigv.iwgyqdtixgcx.d
fmigDzruigh..bw,ghmr mgbrbgu.fgv.g.qfgf.gwizgrugfmigyzwfgcxiwmif,gxrwiu
c.qxgb.yyzxwg.ugfmigfm.qwzubgti zqwig.cghmzfgbrbgv.g.qfg.xghzwgwjyrf
qj;gjrui,gwjxq i,g ibzx,—crxwf,gwi .ub,gfmrxb,gzubgc.qxfmglqzyrfriw,gw.
yzfiyngzyyg.cg.uiglqzyrfn,gf.ghzsig.sixgfmigtizx,gzubgd..wi,gzub
 zxrt.qagUiofgx.yywgFm.dzwf.ugyrdi,gzgjxrdigy.f,ghmr mghryygvifgczx
zd.uvgfmigmryywgtic.xigrfgvifwgwyz pibagFmiwigxzvwgrugtzyiw,g.cgzyy
mqiwgzubglqzyrfriw,gfmigy.hiwfg .ubrfr.ugf.ghmr mg .ff.ugzubgyruiu
biw iub,gfmigcruzygxiwqyfg.cgbxiww,—.cgjzffixuwghmr mgzxigu.hgu.gy.uvix
 xribgqj,gquyiwwgrfgtigrugDryhzqpri,gzwgfm.wigwjyiubrbgzxfr yiw,
Iuvyrwm,gCxiu m,g.xgZdixr zugjxrufw,gvruvmzdw,gdqwyruw,g& a,gvzfmixib
cx.dgzyyglqzxfixwgt.fmg.cgczwmr.ugzubgj.sixfn,gv.ruvgf.gti .digjzjixg.c
.uig .y.xg.xgzgcihgwmzbiwg.uyn,g.ughmr mgc.xw..fmghryygtighxrffiugfzyiw
.cgxizygyrci,gmrvmgzubgy.h,gzubgc.qubibg.ugcz f!gFmrwg y.wibg zxgwdiyyw
.cgwzyfgcrwm,gfmigwfx.uvgUihgIuvyzubgzubg .ddix rzygw iuf,gxidrubruvgdi
.cgfmigVxzubgTzupwgzubgfmigcrwmixriwagHm.gmzwgu.fgwiiugzgwzyfgcrwm,
fm.x.qvmyng qxibgc.xgfmrwgh.xyb,gw.gfmzfgu.fmruvg zugwj.rygrf,gzub
jqffruvgfmigjixwisixzu ig.cgfmigwzrufwgf.gfmigtyqwm?ghrfmghmr mgn.qgdzn
whiijg.xgjzsigfmigwfxiifw,gzubgwjyrfgn.qxgprubyruvw,gzubgfmigfizdwfix
wmiyfixgmrdwiycgzubgmrwgyzbruvgzvzruwfgwqughrubgzubgxzrugtimrubgrf,—zub
fmigfxzbix,gzwgzg .u .xbgfxzbixg.u igbrb,gmzuvgrfgqjgtngmrwgb..xgc.xgz
wrvughmiugmig .ddiu iwgtqwruiww,gqufrygzfgyzwfgmrwg.ybiwfg qwf.dix
 zuu.fgfiyygwqxiynghmifmixgrfgtigzurdzy,gsivifztyi,g.xgdruixzy,gzubgnif
rfgwmzyygtigzwgjqxigzwgzgwu.hcyzpi,gzubgrcgrfgtigjqfgruf.gzgj.fgzub
t.ryib,ghryyg .dig.qfgzugio iyyiufgbqugcrwmgc.xgzgWzfqxbzn’wgbruuixa
UiofgWjzurwmgmrbiw,ghrfmgfmigfzrywgwfryygjxiwixsruvgfmirxgfhrwfgzubgfmi
zuvyig.cgiyiszfr.ugfmingmzbghmiugfmig.oiugfmzfgh.xigfmidghixig zxiixruv
.sixgfmigjzdjzwg.cgfmigWjzurwmgdzru,—zgfnjig.cgzyyg.twfruz n,gzub
isru ruvgm.hgzyd.wfgm.jiyiwwgzubgru qxztyigzxigzyyg .uwfrfqfr.uzy
sr iwagRg .uciww,gfmzfgjxz fr zyyngwjizpruv,ghmiugRgmzsigyizxuibgz
dzu’wgxizygbrwj.wrfr.u,gRgmzsigu.gm.jiwg.cg mzuvruvgrfgc.xgfmigtiffix
.xgh.xwigrugfmrwgwfzfig.cgiorwfiu iagZwgfmig.xriufzywgwzn,g“Zg qx’w
fzrygdzngtighzxdib,gzubgjxiwwib,gzubgt.qubgx.qubghrfmgyrvzfqxiw,gzub
zcfixgzgfhiysignizxw’gyzt.xgtiwf.hibgqj.ugrf,gwfryygrfghryygxifzrugrfw
uzfqxzygc.xda”gFmig.uyngicci fqzyg qxigc.xgwq mgrusifixz riwgzwgfmiwi
fzrywgiomrtrfgrwgf.gdzpigvyqig.cgfmid,ghmr mgRgtiyrisigrwghmzfgrw
qwqzyyngb.uighrfmgfmid,gzubgfmiugfminghryygwfzngjqfgzubgwfr pagMixigrw
zgm.vwmizbg.cgd.yzwwiwg.xg.cgtxzubngbrxi fibgf.gK.mugWdrfm,
 qffruvwsryyi,gSixd.uf,gw.digfxzbixgzd.uvgfmigVxiiugD.qufzruw,ghm.
rdj.xfwgc.xgfmigczxdixwguizxgmrwg yizxruv,gzubgu.hgjix mzu igwfzubw
.sixgmrwgtqyp-mizbgzubgfmrupwg.cgfmigyzwfgzxxrszywg.ugfmig .zwf,gm.h
fmingdzngzcci fgfmigjxr igc.xgmrd,gfiyyruvgmrwg qwf.dixwgfmrwgd.diuf,
zwgmigmzwgf.ybgfmidgfhiufngfrdiwgtic.xigfmrwgd.xuruv,gfmzfgmigioji fw
w.digtngfmiguiofgfxzrug.cgjxrdiglqzyrfnagRfgrwgzbsixfrwibgrugfmi
 qffruvwsryyigFrdiwa

Hmryigfmiwigfmruvwgv.gqjg.fmixgfmruvwg .digb.huagHzxuibgtngfmighmreeruv
w.qub,gRgy..pgqjgcx.dgdngt..pgzubgwiigw.digfzyygjrui,gmihug.ugczx
u.xfmixugmryyw,ghmr mgmzwghruvibgrfwghzng.sixgfmigVxiiugD.qufzruwgzub
fmig .uui fr qf,gwm.fgyrpigzugzxx.hgfmx.qvmgfmigf.huwmrjghrfmrugfiu
druqfiw,gzubgw zx igzu.fmixginigtim.ybwgrf;gv.ruv

ggggg“f.gtigfmigdzwf
ggggg.cgw.digvxizfgzddrxzya”

Zubgmzxp!gmixig .diwgfmig zffyi-fxzrugtizxruvgfmig zffyig.cgzgfm.qwzub
mryyw,gwmiij .fw,gwfztyiw,gzubg .h-nzxbwgrugfmigzrx,gbx.sixwghrfmgfmirx
wfr pw,gzubgwmijmixbgt.nwgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgfmirxgcy. pw,gzyygtqfgfmi
d.qufzrugjzwfqxiw,ghmrxyibgzy.uvgyrpigyizsiwgty.hugcx.dgfmigd.qufzruw
tngfmigWijfidtixgvzyiwagFmigzrxgrwgcryyibghrfmgfmigtyizfruvg.cg zysiw
zubgwmiij,gzubgfmigmqwfyruvg.cg.oiu,gzwgrcgzgjzwf.xzygszyyinghixigv.ruv
tnagHmiugfmig.ybgtiyy-hifmixgzfgfmigmizbgxzffyiwgmrwgtiyy,gfmi
d.qufzruwgb.grubiibgwprjgyrpigxzdwgzubgfmigyrffyigmryywgyrpigyzdtwagZ
 zx-y.zbg.cgbx.sixw,gf..,grugfmigdrbwf,g.ugzgyisiyghrfmgfmirxgbx.siw
u.h,gfmirxgs. zfr.ugv.ui,gtqfgwfryyg yruvruvgf.gfmirxgqwiyiwwgwfr pwgzw
fmirxgtzbvig.cg.ccr iagTqfgfmirxgb.vw,ghmixigzxigfmin?gRfgrwgzgwfzdjibi
f.gfmid;gfmingzxiglqrfigfmx.hug.qf;gfmingmzsigy.wfgfmigw iufagDifmrupw
RgmizxgfmidgtzxpruvgtimrubgfmigJifixt.x.’gMryyw,g.xgjzufruvgqjgfmi
hiwfixugwy.jig.cgfmigVxiiugD.qufzruwagFminghryygu.fgtigrugzfgfmigbizfma
Fmirxgs. zfr.u,gf..,grwgv.uiagFmirxgcrbiyrfngzubgwzvz rfngzxigtiy.hgjzx
u.hagFminghryygwyrupgtz pgf.gfmirxgpiuuiywgrugbrwvxz i,g.xgjix mzu i
xqughrybgzubgwfxrpigzgyizvqighrfmgfmigh.ycgzubgfmigc.oagW.grwgn.qx
jzwf.xzygyrcighmrxyibgjzwfgzubgzhznagTqfgfmigtiyygxruvw,gzubgRgdqwfgvif
.ccgfmigfxz pgzubgyifgfmig zxwgv.gtn;—

gggggHmzf’wgfmigxzryx.zbgf.gdi?
gggggRguisixgv.gf.gwii
gggggHmixigrfgiubwa
gggggRfgcryywgzgcihgm.yy.hw,
gggggZubgdzpiwgtzupwgc.xgfmigwhzyy.hw,
gggggRfgwifwgfmigwzubgz-ty.hruv,
gggggZubgfmigtyz ptixxriwgz-vx.hruv,

tqfgRg x.wwgrfgyrpigzg zxf-jzfmgrugfmigh..bwagRghryygu.fgmzsigdnginiw
jqfg.qfgzubgdngizxwgwj.ryibgtngrfwgwd.pigzubgwfizdgzubgmrwwruva



U.hgfmzfgfmig zxwgzxigv.uigtngzubgzyygfmigxiwfyiwwgh.xybghrfmgfmid,gzub
fmigcrwmiwgrugfmigj.ubgu.gy.uvixgciiygfmirxgxqdtyruv,gRgzdgd.xigzy.ui
fmzugisixagC.xgfmigxiwfg.cgfmigy.uvgzcfixu..u,gjixmzjw,gdngdibrfzfr.uw
zxigrufixxqjfibg.uyngtngfmigczrufgxzffyig.cgzg zxxrzvig.xgfizdgzy.uv
fmigbrwfzufgmrvmhzna

W.difrdiw,g.ugWqubznw,gRgmizxbgfmigtiyyw,gfmigYru .yu,gZ f.u,gTibc.xb,
.xg .u .xbgtiyy,ghmiugfmighrubghzwgczs.xztyi,gzgczruf,gwhiif,gzub,gzw
rfghixi,guzfqxzygdiy.bn,gh.xfmgrdj.xfruvgruf.gfmighrybixuiwwagZfgz
wqccr riufgbrwfzu ig.sixgfmigh..bwgfmrwgw.qubgz lqrxiwgzg ixfzru
srtxzf.xngmqd,gzwgrcgfmigjruiguiibyiwgrugfmigm.xre.ughixigfmigwfxruvw
.cgzgmzxjghmr mgrfgwhijfagZyygw.qubgmizxbgzfgfmigvxizfiwfgj.wwrtyi
brwfzu igjx.bq iwg.uigzubgfmigwzdigicci f,gzgsrtxzfr.ug.cgfmigqursixwzy
ynxi,gkqwfgzwgfmigrufixsiuruvgzfd.wjmixigdzpiwgzgbrwfzufgxrbvig.cgizxfm
rufixiwfruvgf.g.qxginiwgtngfmigzeqxigfrufgrfgrdjzxfwgf.grfagFmixig zdi
f.gdigrugfmrwg zwigzgdiy.bnghmr mgfmigzrxgmzbgwfxzruib,gzubghmr mgmzb
 .usixwibghrfmgisixngyizcgzubguiibyig.cgfmigh..b,gfmzfgj.xfr.ug.cgfmi
w.qubghmr mgfmigiyidiufwgmzbgfzpiugqjgzubgd.bqyzfibgzubgi m.ibgcx.d
szyigf.gszyiagFmigi m.grw,gf.gw.digiofiuf,gzug.xrvruzygw.qub,gzub
fmixirugrwgfmigdzvr gzubg mzxdg.cgrfagRfgrwgu.fgdixiyngzgxijifrfr.ug.c
hmzfghzwgh.xfmgxijizfruvgrugfmigtiyy,gtqfgjzxfyngfmigs.r ig.cgfmigh..b;
fmigwzdigfxrsrzygh.xbwgzubgu.fiwgwquvgtngzgh..b-undjma

Zfgisiuruv,gfmigbrwfzufgy.hruvg.cgw.dig .hgrugfmigm.xre.ugtin.ubgfmi
h..bwgw.qubibgwhiifgzubgdiy.br.qw,gzubgzfgcrxwfgRgh.qybgdrwfzpigrfgc.x
fmigs.r iwg.cg ixfzrugdruwfxiywgtnghm.dgRghzwgw.difrdiwgwixiuzbib,ghm.
drvmfgtigwfxznruvg.sixgmryygzubgbzyi;gtqfgw..ugRghzwgu.fgqujyizwzufyn
brwzjj.rufibghmiugrfghzwgjx.y.uvibgruf.gfmig mizjgzubguzfqxzygdqwr g.c
fmig .hagRgb.gu.fgdizugf.gtigwzfrxr zy,gtqfgf.giojxiwwgdngzjjxi rzfr.u
.cgfm.wign.qfmw’gwruvruv,ghmiugRgwfzfigfmzfgRgjix irsibg yizxyngfmzfgrf
hzwgzprugf.gfmigdqwr g.cgfmig .h,gzubgfminghixigzfgyiuvfmg.ui
zxfr qyzfr.ug.cgUzfqxia

Xivqyzxyngzfgmzycgjzwfgwisiu,grug.uigjzxfg.cgfmigwqddix,gzcfixgfmi
isiuruvgfxzrugmzbgv.uigtn,gfmighmrjj..xhryywg mzufibgfmirxgsiwjixwgc.x
mzycgzugm.qx,gwrffruvg.ugzgwfqdjgtngdngb..x,g.xgqj.ugfmigxrbvigj.yig.c
fmigm.qwiagFmingh.qybgtivrugf.gwruvgzyd.wfghrfmgzwgdq mgjxi rwr.ugzwgz
 y. p,ghrfmrugcrsigdruqfiwg.cgzgjzxfr qyzxgfrdi,gxicixxibgf.gfmi
wiffruvg.cgfmigwqu,gisixngisiuruvagRgmzbgzgxzxig.jj.xfqurfngf.gti .di
z lqzrufibghrfmgfmirxgmztrfwagW.difrdiwgRgmizxbgc.qxg.xgcrsigzfg.u igru
brccixiufgjzxfwg.cgfmigh..b,gtngz  rbiufg.uigzgtzxgtimrubgzu.fmix,gzub
w.guizxgdigfmzfgRgbrwfruvqrwmibgu.fg.uyngfmig yq pgzcfixgiz mgu.fi,gtqf
.cfiugfmzfgwruvqyzxgtqeeruvgw.qubgyrpigzgcyngrugzgwjrbix’wghit,g.uyn
jx.j.xfr.uzyyngy.qbixagW.difrdiwg.uigh.qybg rx yigx.qubgzubgx.qubgdigru
fmigh..bwgzgcihgciifgbrwfzufgzwgrcgfifmixibgtngzgwfxruv,ghmiugjx.tztyn
RghzwguizxgrfwgivvwagFmingwzuvgzfgrufixszywgfmx.qvm.qfgfmigurvmf,gzub
hixigzvzrugzwgdqwr zygzwgisixgkqwfgtic.xigzubgzt.qfgbzhua

Hmiug.fmixgtrxbwgzxigwfryygfmigw xii mg.hywgfzpigqjgfmigwfxzru,gyrpi
d.qxuruvgh.diugfmirxgzu riufgq-yq-yqagFmirxgbrwdzygw xizdgrwgfxqyngTiu
K.uw.urzuagHrwigdrburvmfgmzvw!gRfgrwgu.gm.uiwfgzubgtyqufgfq-hmrfgfq-hm.
.cgfmigj.ifw,gtqf,ghrfm.qfgkiwfruv,gzgd.wfgw.yidugvxzsinzxbgbrffn,gfmi
dqfqzyg .uw.yzfr.uwg.cgwqr rbigy.sixwgxididtixruvgfmigjzuvwgzubgfmi
biyrvmfwg.cgwqjixuzygy.sigrugfmigrucixuzygvx.siwagNifgRgy.sigf.gmizx
fmirxghzryruv,gfmirxgb.yicqygxiwj.uwiw,gfxryyibgzy.uvgfmigh..b-wrbi;
xidrubruvgdigw.difrdiwg.cgdqwr gzubgwruvruvgtrxbw;gzwgrcgrfghixigfmi
bzxpgzubgfizxcqygwrbig.cgdqwr ,gfmigxivxifwgzubgwrvmwgfmzfgh.qybgczru
tigwquvagFmingzxigfmigwjrxrfw,gfmigy.hgwjrxrfwgzubgdiyzu m.yn
c.xit.bruvw,g.cgczyyiugw.qywgfmzfg.u igrugmqdzugwmzjigurvmf-hzypibgfmi
izxfmgzubgbrbgfmigbiibwg.cgbzxpuiww,gu.hgiojrzfruvgfmirxgwruwghrfm
fmirxghzryruvgmnduwg.xgfmxiu.briwgrugfmigw iuixng.cgfmirx
fxzuwvxiwwr.uwagFmingvrsigdigzguihgwiuwig.cgfmigszxrifngzubg zjz rfng.c
fmzfguzfqxighmr mgrwg.qxg .dd.ugbhiyyruvag_.m-.-.-.-.gfmzfgRguisixgmzb
tiiugt.x-x-x-x-u!_gwrvmwg.uig.ugfmrwgwrbig.cgfmigj.ub,gzubg rx yiwghrfm
fmigxiwfyiwwuiwwg.cgbiwjzrxgf.gw.diguihgjix mg.ugfmigvxzng.zpwa
Fmiu—_fmzfgRguisixgmzbgtiiugt.x-x-x-x-u!_gi m.iwgzu.fmixg.ugfmigczxfmix
wrbighrfmgfxidqy.qwgwru ixrfn,gzub—_t.x-x-x-x-u!_g .diwgczrufyngcx.d
czxgrugfmigYru .yugh..bwa

Rghzwgzyw.gwixiuzbibgtngzgm..fruvg.hyagUizxgzfgmzubgn.qg .qybgczu ngrf
fmigd.wfgdiyzu m.yngw.qubgrugUzfqxi,gzwgrcgwmigdizufgtngfmrwgf.
wfixi.fnjigzubgdzpigjixdzuiufgrugmixg m.rxgfmigbnruvgd.zuwg.cgzgmqdzu
tiruv,—w.digj..xghizpgxiyr g.cgd.xfzyrfnghm.gmzwgyicfgm.jigtimrub,gzub
m.hywgyrpigzugzurdzy,gnifghrfmgmqdzugw.tw,g.ugiufixruvgfmigbzxpgszyyin,
dzbigd.xigzhcqygtngzg ixfzrugvqxvyruvgdiy.br.qwuiww,—Rgcrubgdnwiyc
tivruuruvghrfmgfmigyiffixwgvyghmiugRgfxngf.grdrfzfigrf,—iojxiwwrsig.cgz
drubghmr mgmzwgxiz mibgfmigviyzfru.qwgdrybihngwfzvigrugfmi
d.xfrcr zfr.ug.cgzyygmizyfmngzubg .qxzvi.qwgfm.qvmfagRfgxidrubibgdig.c
vm.qywgzubgrbr.fwgzubgruwzuigm.hyruvwagTqfgu.hg.uigzuwhixwgcx.dgczx
h..bwgrugzgwfxzrugdzbigxizyyngdiy.br.qwgtngbrwfzu i,—_M..gm..gm..,
m..xixgm.._;gzubgrubiibgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgrfgwqvviwfibg.uyngjyizwruv
zww. rzfr.uw,ghmifmixgmizxbgtngbzng.xgurvmf,gwqddixg.xghrufixa

Rgxik.r igfmzfgfmixigzxig.hywagYifgfmidgb.gfmigrbr.fr gzubgdzurz zy
m..fruvgc.xgdiuagRfgrwgzgw.qubgzbdrxztyngwqrfibgf.gwhzdjwgzubgfhryrvmf
h..bwghmr mgu.gbzngryyqwfxzfiw,gwqvviwfruvgzgszwfgzubgqubisiy.jib
uzfqxighmr mgdiugmzsigu.fgxi .vureibagFmingxijxiwiufgfmigwfzxpgfhryrvmf
zubgquwzfrwcribgfm.qvmfwghmr mgzyygmzsiagZyygbzngfmigwqugmzwgwm.uig.u
fmigwqxcz ig.cgw.digwzszvigwhzdj,ghmixigfmigwruvyigwjxq igwfzubwgmquv
hrfmgqwuizgyr miuw,gzubgwdzyygmzhpwg rx qyzfigzt.si,gzubgfmig mr pzbii
yrwjwgzdrbgfmigisixvxiiuw,gzubgfmigjzxfxrbvigzubgxzttrfgwpqypgtiuizfm;
tqfgu.hgzgd.xigbrwdzygzubgcrffruvgbzngbzhuw,gzubgzgbrccixiufgxz ig.c
 xizfqxiwgzhzpiwgf.giojxiwwgfmigdizuruvg.cgUzfqxigfmixia

YzfigrugfmigisiuruvgRgmizxbgfmigbrwfzufgxqdtyruvg.cghzv.uwg.six
txrbviw,—zgw.qubgmizxbgczxfmixgfmzugzyd.wfgzung.fmixgzfgurvmf,—fmi
tznruvg.cgb.vw,gzubgw.difrdiwgzvzrugfmigy.hruvg.cgw.digbrw .uw.yzfig .h
rugzgbrwfzufgtzxu-nzxbagRugfmigdizughmryigzyygfmigwm.xigxzuvghrfmgfmi
fxqdjg.cgtqyycx.vw,gfmigwfqxbngwjrxrfwg.cgzu riufghrui-trttixwgzub
hzwwzryixw,gwfryygquxijiufzuf,gfxnruvgf.gwruvgzg zf mgrugfmirxgWfnvrzu
yzpi,—rcgfmigHzybiugundjmwghryygjzxb.ugfmig .djzxrw.u,gc.xgfm.qvmgfmixi
zxigzyd.wfgu.ghiibw,gfmixigzxigcx.vwgfmixi,—hm.gh.qybgczrugpiijgqjgfmi
mryzxr.qwgxqyiwg.cgfmirxg.ybgciwfzygfztyiw,gfm.qvmgfmirxgs.r iwgmzsi
hzoibgm.zxwigzubgw.yiduyngvxzsi,gd. pruvgzfgdrxfm,gzubgfmighruigmzw
y.wfgrfwgcyzs.x,gzubgti .dig.uyngyrlq.xgf.gbrwfiubgfmirxgjzqu miw,gzub
whiifgruf.or zfr.uguisixg .diwgf.gbx.hugfmigdid.xng.cgfmigjzwf,gtqf
dixigwzfqxzfr.ugzubghzfixy.vvibuiwwgzubgbrwfiufr.uagFmigd.wf
zybixdzur ,ghrfmgmrwg mrugqj.ugzgmizxf-yizc,ghmr mgwixsiwgc.xgzguzjpru
f.gmrwgbx..yruvg mzjw,gqubixgfmrwgu.xfmixugwm.xiglqzccwgzgbiijgbxzqvmf
.cgfmig.u igw .xuibghzfix,gzubgjzwwiwgx.qubgfmig qjghrfmgfmi
ikz qyzfr.ug_fx-x-x-..up,gfx-x-x-..up,gfx-x-x-..up!_gzubgwfxzrvmfhzn
 .diwg.sixgfmighzfixgcx.dgw.digbrwfzufg .sigfmigwzdigjzwwh.xbgxijizfib,
hmixigfmiguiofgrugwiur.xrfngzubgvrxfmgmzwgvqyjibgb.hugf.gmrwgdzxp;gzub
hmiugfmrwg.twixszu igmzwgdzbigfmig rx qrfg.cgfmigwm.xiw,gfmiu
ikz qyzfiwgfmigdzwfixg.cg ixid.uriw,ghrfmgwzfrwcz fr.u,g_fx-x-x-..up!_
zubgiz mgrugmrwgfqxugxijizfwgfmigwzdigb.hugf.gfmigyizwfgbrwfiubib,
yizpriwf,gzubgcyzttriwfgjzqu mib,gfmzfgfmixigtigu.gdrwfzpi;gzubgfmiu
fmigt.hygv.iwgx.qubgzvzrugzubgzvzru,gqufrygfmigwqugbrwjixwiwgfmi
d.xuruvgdrwf,gzubg.uyngfmigjzfxrzx mgrwgu.fgqubixgfmigj.ub,gtqfgszruyn
tiyy.hruvg_fx..up_gcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gzubgjzqwruvgc.xgzgxijyna

Rgzdgu.fgwqxigfmzfgRgisixgmizxbgfmigw.qubg.cg . p- x.hruvgcx.dgdn
 yizxruv,gzubgRgfm.qvmfgfmzfgrfgdrvmfgtigh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gpiijgz
 . pixiygc.xgmrwgdqwr gdixiyn,gzwgzgwruvruvgtrxbagFmigu.fig.cgfmrwg.u i
hrybgRubrzugjmizwzufgrwg ixfzruyngfmigd.wfgxidzxpztyig.cgzungtrxb’w,
zubgrcgfming .qybgtiguzfqxzyreibghrfm.qfgtiruvgb.diwfr zfib,grfgh.qyb
w..ugti .digfmigd.wfgczd.qwgw.qubgrug.qxgh..bw,gwqxjzwwruvgfmig yzuv.x
.cgfmigv..wigzubgfmigm..fruvg.cgfmig.hy;gzubgfmiugrdzvruigfmig z pyruv
.cgfmigmiuwgf.gcryygfmigjzqwiwghmiugfmirxgy.xbw’g yzxr.uwgxiwfib!gU.
h.ubixgfmzfgdzugzbbibgfmrwgtrxbgf.gmrwgfzdigwf. p,—f.gwzngu.fmruvg.c
fmigivvwgzubgbxqdwfr pwagF.ghzypgrugzghrufixgd.xuruvgrugzgh..bghmixi
fmiwigtrxbwgzt.qubib,gfmirxguzfrsigh..bw,gzubgmizxgfmighrybg . pixiyw
 x.hg.ugfmigfxiiw,g yizxgzubgwmxryygc.xgdryiwg.sixgfmigxiw.qubruv
izxfm,gbx.huruvgfmigciityixgu.fiwg.cg.fmixgtrxbw,—fmrupg.cgrf!gRfgh.qyb
jqfguzfr.uwg.ugfmigzyixfagHm.gh.qybgu.fgtigizxyngf.gxrwi,gzubgxrwi
izxyrixgzubgizxyrixgisixngwq  iwwrsigbzng.cgmrwgyrci,gfryygmigti zdi
quwjizpztyngmizyfmn,ghizyfmn,gzubghrwi?gFmrwgc.xirvugtrxb’wgu.figrw
 iyitxzfibgtngfmigj.ifwg.cgzyyg .qufxriwgzy.uvghrfmgfmigu.fiwg.cgfmirx
uzfrsigw.uvwfixwagZyyg yrdzfiwgzvxiighrfmgtxzsig mzufr yiixagMigrwgd.xi
rubrviu.qwgisiugfmzugfmiguzfrsiwagMrwgmizyfmgrwgisixgv..b,gmrwgyquvw
zxigw.qub,gmrwgwjrxrfwguisixgcyzvagIsiugfmigwzry.xg.ugfmigZfyzufr gzub
Jz rcr grwgzhzpiuibgtngmrwgs.r i;gtqfgrfwgwmxryygw.qubguisixgx.qwibgdi
cx.dgdngwyqdtixwagRgpijfguirfmixgb.v,g zf,g .h,gjrv,gu.xgmiuw,gw.gfmzf
n.qgh.qybgmzsigwzrbgfmixighzwgzgbicr riu ng.cgb.diwfr gw.qubw;guirfmix
fmig mqxu,gu.xgfmigwjruuruvghmiiy,gu.xgisiugfmigwruvruvg.cgfmigpiffyi,
u.xgfmigmrwwruvg.cgfmigqxu,gu.xg mrybxiug xnruv,gf.g .dc.xfg.uiagZu
.yb-czwmr.uibgdzugh.qybgmzsigy.wfgmrwgwiuwiwg.xgbribg.cgiuuqrgtic.xi
fmrwagU.fgisiugxzfwgrugfmighzyy,gc.xgfminghixigwfzxsibg.qf,g.xgxzfmix
hixiguisixgtzrfibgru,—.uyngwlqrxxiywg.ugfmigx..cgzubgqubixgfmigcy..x,gz
hmrjj..xhryyg.ugfmigxrbvigj.yi,gzgtyqi-kzngw xizdruvgtiuizfmgfmi
hrub.h,gzgmzxig.xgh..b mq pgqubixgfmigm.qwi,gzgw xii m-.hyg.xgzg zf-.hy
timrubgrf,gzgcy. pg.cghrybgviiwig.xgzgyzqvmruvgy..ug.ugfmigj.ub,gzubgz
c.ogf.gtzxpgrugfmigurvmfagU.fgisiugzgyzxpg.xgzug.xr.yi,gfm.wigdryb
jyzufzfr.ugtrxbw,gisixgsrwrfibgdng yizxruvagU.g . pixiywgf.g x.hgu.x
miuwgf.g z pyigrugfmignzxbagU.gnzxb!gtqfgquciu ibgUzfqxigxiz mruvgqjgf.
n.qxgsixngwryywagZgn.quvgc.xiwfgvx.hruvgqjgqubixgn.qxgdizb.hw,gzubghryb
wqdz mwgzubgtyz ptixxngsruiwgtxizpruvgfmx.qvmgruf.gn.qxg iyyzx;gwfqxbn
jrf mgjruiwgxqttruvgzubg xizpruvgzvzruwfgfmigwmruvyiwgc.xghzufg.cgx..d,
fmirxgx..fwgxiz mruvglqrfigqubixgfmigm.qwiagRuwfizbg.cgzgw qffyig.xgz
tyrubgty.hug.ccgrugfmigvzyi,—zgjruigfxiigwuzjjibg.ccg.xgf.xugqjgtngfmi
x..fwgtimrubgn.qxgm.qwigc.xgcqiyagRuwfizbg.cgu.gjzfmgf.gfmigcx.uf-nzxb
vzfigrugfmigVxizfgWu.h,—u.gvzfi,—u.gcx.uf-nzxb,—zubgu.gjzfmgf.gfmi
 rsryreibgh.xyb!


W.yrfqbi

Fmrwgrwgzgbiyr r.qwgisiuruv,ghmiugfmighm.yigt.bngrwg.uigwiuwi,gzub
rdtrtiwgbiyrvmfgfmx.qvmgisixngj.xiagRgv.gzubg .dighrfmgzgwfxzuvi
yrtixfngrugUzfqxi,gzgjzxfg.cgmixwiycagZwgRghzypgzy.uvgfmigwf.ungwm.xi
.cgfmigj.ubgrugdngwmrxfgwyiisiw,gfm.qvmgrfgrwg ..ygzwghiyygzwg y.qbn
zubghrubn,gzubgRgwiigu.fmruvgwji rzygf.gzffxz fgdi,gzyygfmigiyidiufw
zxigquqwqzyyng .uviurzygf.gdiagFmigtqyycx.vwgfxqdjgf.gqwmixgrugfmi
urvmf,gzubgfmigu.fig.cgfmighmrjj..xhryygrwgt.xuig.ugfmigxrjjyruvghrub
cx.dg.sixgfmighzfixagWndjzfmnghrfmgfmigcyqffixruvgzybixgzubgj.jyzx
yizsiwgzyd.wfgfzpiwgzhzngdngtxizfm;gnif,gyrpigfmigyzpi,gdngwixiurfngrw
xrjjyibgtqfgu.fgxqccyibagFmiwigwdzyyghzsiwgxzrwibgtngfmigisiuruvghrub
zxigzwgxid.figcx.dgwf.xdgzwgfmigwd..fmgxicyi fruvgwqxcz iagFm.qvmgrfgrw
u.hgbzxp,gfmighrubgwfryygty.hwgzubgx.zxwgrugfmigh..b,gfmighzsiwgwfryy
bzwm,gzubgw.dig xizfqxiwgyqyygfmigxiwfghrfmgfmirxgu.fiwagFmigxij.wigrw
uisixg .djyifiagFmighrybiwfgzurdzywgb.gu.fgxij.wi,gtqfgwiipgfmirxgjxin
u.h;gfmigc.o,gzubgwpqup,gzubgxzttrf,gu.hgx.zdgfmigcriybwgzubgh..bw
hrfm.qfgcizxagFmingzxigUzfqxi’wghzf mdiu,—yrupwghmr mg .uui fgfmigbznw
.cgzurdzfibgyrcia

HmiugRgxifqxugf.gdngm.qwigRgcrubgfmzfgsrwrf.xwgmzsigtiiugfmixigzubgyicf
fmirxg zxbw,girfmixgzgtqu mg.cgcy.hixw,g.xgzghxizfmg.cgisixvxiiu,g.xgz
uzdigrugjiu ryg.ugzgniyy.hghzyuqfgyizcg.xgzg mrjagFminghm.g .digxzxiyn
f.gfmigh..bwgfzpigw.digyrffyigjri ig.cgfmigc.xiwfgruf.gfmirxgmzubwgf.
jyznghrfmgtngfmighzn,ghmr mgfmingyizsi,girfmixgrufiufr.uzyyng.x
z  rbiufzyynag.uigmzwgjiiyibgzghryy.hghzub,gh.siugrfgruf.gzgxruv,gzub
bx.jjibgrfg.ugdngfztyiagRg .qybgzyhznwgfiyygrcgsrwrf.xwgmzbg zyyibgru
dngztwiu i,girfmixgtngfmigtiubibgfhrvwg.xgvxzww,g.xgfmigjxrufg.cgfmirx
wm.iw,gzubgviuixzyyng.cghmzfgwiog.xgzvig.xglqzyrfngfminghixigtngw.di
wyrvmfgfxz igyicf,gzwgzgcy.hixgbx.jjib,g.xgzgtqu mg.cgvxzwwgjyq pibgzub
fmx.hugzhzn,gisiugzwgczxg.ccgzwgfmigxzryx.zb,gmzycgzgdryigbrwfzuf,g.x
tngfmigyruvixruvg.b.xg.cgzg rvzxg.xgjrjiagUzn,gRghzwgcxilqiufyn
u.frcribg.cgfmigjzwwzvig.cgzgfxzsiyyixgzy.uvgfmigmrvmhzngwrofngx.bwg.cc
tngfmigw iufg.cgmrwgjrjia

Fmixigrwg .dd.uyngwqccr riufgwjz igzt.qfgqwag.qxgm.xre.ugrwguisixglqrfi
zfg.qxgiyt.hwagFmigfmr pgh..bgrwgu.fgkqwfgzfg.qxgb..x,gu.xgfmigj.ub,
tqfgw.dihmzfgrwgzyhznwg yizxruv,gczdryrzxgzubgh.xugtngqw,gzjjx.jxrzfib
zubgciu ibgrugw.dighzn,gzubgxi yzrdibgcx.dgUzfqxiagC.xghmzfgxizw.ugmzsi
Rgfmrwgszwfgxzuvigzubg rx qrf,gw.digwlqzxigdryiwg.cgqucxilqiufib
c.xiwf,gc.xgdngjxrsz n,gztzub.uibgf.gdigtngdiu?gDnguizxiwfguirvmt.xgrw
zgdryigbrwfzuf,gzubgu.gm.qwigrwgsrwrtyigcx.dgzungjyz igtqfgfmi
mryy-f.jwghrfmrugmzycgzgdryig.cgdng.huagRgmzsigdngm.xre.ugt.qubibgtn
h..bwgzyygf.gdnwiyc;gzgbrwfzufgsrihg.cgfmigxzryx.zbghmixigrfgf.q miw
fmigj.ubg.ugfmig.uigmzub,gzubg.cgfmigciu ighmr mgwprxfwgfmigh..byzub
x.zbg.ugfmig.fmixagTqfgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgrfgrwgzwgw.yrfzxnghmixigRgyrsi
zwg.ugfmigjxzrxriwagRfgrwgzwgdq mgZwrzg.xgZcxr zgzwgUihgIuvyzubagR
mzsi,gzwgrfghixi,gdng.hugwqugzubgd..ugzubgwfzxw,gzubgzgyrffyigh.xybgzyy
f.gdnwiycagZfgurvmfgfmixighzwguisixgzgfxzsiyyixgjzwwibgdngm.qwi,g.x
pu. pibgzfgdngb..x,gd.xigfmzugrcgRghixigfmigcrxwfg.xgyzwfgdzu;gquyiww
rfghixigrugfmigwjxruv,ghmiugzfgy.uvgrufixszywgw.dig zdigcx.dgfmi
sryyzvigf.gcrwmgc.xgj.qfw,—fmingjyzruyngcrwmibgdq mgd.xigrugfmigHzybiu
J.ubg.cgfmirxg.huguzfqxiw,gzubgtzrfibgfmirxgm..pwghrfmgbzxpuiww,—tqf
fmingw..ugxifxizfib,gqwqzyynghrfmgyrvmfgtzwpifw,gzubgyicfg“fmigh.xybgf.
bzxpuiwwgzubgf.gdi,”gzubgfmigtyz pgpixuiyg.cgfmigurvmfghzwguisix
jx.czuibgtngzungmqdzuguirvmt.xm..bagRgtiyrisigfmzfgdiugzxigviuixzyyn
wfryygzgyrffyigzcxzrbg.cgfmigbzxp,gfm.qvmgfmighrf miwgzxigzyygmquv,gzub
 mxrwfrzurfngzubg zubyiwgmzsigtiiugrufx.bq iba

NifgRgiojixriu ibgw.difrdiwgfmzfgfmigd.wfgwhiifgzubgfiubix,gfmigd.wf
ruu. iufgzubgiu .qxzvruvgw. rifngdzngtigc.qubgrugzunguzfqxzyg.tki f,
isiugc.xgfmigj..xgdrwzufmx.jigzubgd.wfgdiyzu m.yngdzuagFmixig zugtigu.
sixngtyz pgdiyzu m.yngf.gmrdghm.gyrsiwgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgUzfqxigzubgmzw
mrwgwiuwiwgwfryyagFmixighzwguisixgnifgwq mgzgwf.xdgtqfgrfghzwgÆ.yrzu
dqwr gf.gzgmizyfmngzubgruu. iufgizxagU.fmruvg zugxrvmfyng .djiygz
wrdjyigzubgtxzsigdzugf.gzgsqyvzxgwzbuiwwagHmryigRgiuk.ngfmigcxriubwmrj
.cgfmigwizw.uwgRgfxqwfgfmzfgu.fmruvg zugdzpigyrcigzgtqxbiugf.gdiagFmi
viufyigxzrughmr mghzfixwgdngtizuwgzubgpiijwgdigrugfmigm.qwigf.-bzngrw
u.fgbxizxgzubgdiyzu m.yn,gtqfgv..bgc.xgdigf..agFm.qvmgrfgjxisiufwgdn
m.iruvgfmid,grfgrwg.cgczxgd.xigh.xfmgfmzugdngm.iruvagRcgrfgwm.qyb
 .ufruqigw.gy.uvgzwgf.g zqwigfmigwiibwgf.gx.fgrugfmigvx.qubgzubgbiwfx.n
fmigj.fzf.iwgrugfmigy.hgyzubw,grfgh.qybgwfryygtigv..bgc.xgfmigvxzwwg.u
fmigqjyzubw,gzub,gtiruvgv..bgc.xgfmigvxzww,grfgh.qybgtigv..bgc.xgdia
W.difrdiw,ghmiugRg .djzxigdnwiycghrfmg.fmixgdiu,grfgwiidwgzwgrcgRghixi
d.xigczs.xibgtngfmigv.bwgfmzugfmin,gtin.ubgzungbiwixfwgfmzfgRgzd
 .uw r.qwg.c;gzwgrcgRgmzbgzghzxxzufgzubgwqxifngzfgfmirxgmzubwghmr mgdn
ciyy.hwgmzsigu.f,gzubghixigiwji rzyyngvqrbibgzubgvqzxbibagRgb.gu.f
cyzffixgdnwiyc,gtqfgrcgrfgtigj.wwrtyigfmingcyzffixgdiagRgmzsiguisix
ciyfgy.uiw.di,g.xgrugfmigyizwfg.jjxiwwibgtngzgwiuwig.cgw.yrfqbi,gtqf
.u i,gzubgfmzfghzwgzgcihghiipwgzcfixgRg zdigf.gfmigh..bw,ghmiu,gc.xgzu
m.qx,gRgb.qtfibgrcgfmiguizxguirvmt.xm..bg.cgdzughzwgu.fgiwwiufrzygf.gz
wixiuigzubgmizyfmngyrciagF.gtigzy.uighzwgw.difmruvgqujyizwzufagTqfgR
hzwgzfgfmigwzdigfrdig .uw r.qwg.cgzgwyrvmfgruwzurfngrugdngd..b,gzub
wiidibgf.gc.xiwiigdngxi .sixnagRugfmigdrbwfg.cgzgviufyigxzrughmryi
fmiwigfm.qvmfwgjxiszryib,gRghzwgwqbbiuyngwiuwrtyig.cgwq mgwhiifgzub
tiuicr iufgw. rifngrugUzfqxi,grugfmigsixngjzffixruvg.cgfmigbx.jw,gzub
rugisixngw.qubgzubgwrvmfgzx.qubgdngm.qwi,gzugrucrurfigzubgquz  .qufztyi
cxriubyruiwwgzyygzfg.u igyrpigzugzfd.wjmixigwqwfzruruvgdi,gzwgdzbigfmi
czu ribgzbszufzviwg.cgmqdzuguirvmt.xm..bgruwrvurcr zuf,gzubgRgmzsi
uisixgfm.qvmfg.cgfmidgwru iagIsixngyrffyigjruiguiibyigiojzubibgzub
whiyyibghrfmgwndjzfmngzubgticxriubibgdiagRghzwgw.gbrwfru fyngdzbigzhzxi
.cgfmigjxiwiu ig.cgw.difmruvgprubxibgf.gdi,gisiugrugw iuiwghmr mghigzxi
z  qwf.dibgf.g zyyghrybgzubgbxizxn,gzubgzyw.gfmzfgfmiguizxiwfg.cgty..b
f.gdigzubgmqdzuiwfghzwgu.fgzgjixw.ugu.xgzgsryyzvix,gfmzfgRgfm.qvmfgu.
jyz ig .qybgisixgtigwfxzuvigf.gdigzvzrua—

ggggg“D.qxuruvgqufrdiyng .uwqdiwgfmigwzb;
gggggCihgzxigfmirxgbznwgrugfmigyzubg.cgfmigyrsruv,
gggggTizqfrcqygbzqvmfixg.cgF.w zxa”

W.dig.cgdngjyizwzufiwfgm.qxwghixigbqxruvgfmigy.uvgxzrugwf.xdwgrugfmi
wjxruvg.xgczyy,ghmr mg .ucruibgdigf.gfmigm.qwigc.xgfmigzcfixu..ugzw
hiyygzwgfmigc.xiu..u,gw..fmibgtngfmirxg izwiyiwwgx.zxgzubgjiyfruv;ghmiu
zugizxyngfhryrvmfgqwmixibgrugzgy.uvgisiuruvgrughmr mgdzungfm.qvmfwgmzb
frdigf.gfzpigx..fgzubgquc.ybgfmidwiysiwagRugfm.wigbxrsruvgu.xfm-izwf
xzruwghmr mgfxribgfmigsryyzvigm.qwiwgw.,ghmiugfmigdzrbwgwf..bgxizbn
hrfmgd.jgzubgjzrygrugcx.ufgiufxriwgf.gpiijgfmigbiyqvig.qf,gRgwzfgtimrub
dngb..xgrugdngyrffyigm.qwi,ghmr mghzwgzyygiufxn,gzubgfm.x.qvmyngiuk.nib
rfwgjx.fi fr.uagRug.uigmizsngfmqubixgwm.hixgfmigyrvmfuruvgwfxq pgz
yzxvigjrf m-jruigz x.wwgfmigj.ub,gdzpruvgzgsixng .uwjr q.qwgzub
jixci fyngxivqyzxgwjrxzygvx..sigcx.dgf.jgf.gt.ff.d,gzugru mg.xgd.xi
biij,gzubgc.qxg.xgcrsigru miwghrbi,gzwgn.qgh.qybgvx..sigz
hzypruv-wfr pagRgjzwwibgrfgzvzrugfmig.fmixgbzn,gzubghzwgwfxq pghrfmgzhi
.ugy..pruvgqjgzubgtim.ybruvgfmzfgdzxp,gu.hgd.xigbrwfru fgfmzugisix,
hmixigzgfixxrcr gzubgxiwrwfyiwwgt.yfg zdigb.hug.qfg.cgfmigmzxdyiwwgwpn
irvmfgnizxwgzv.agDiugcxilqiufyngwzngf.gdi,g“Rgwm.qybgfmrupgn.qgh.qyb
ciiygy.uiw.digb.hugfmixi,gzubghzufgf.gtiguizxixgf.gc.ypw,gxzrungzub
wu.hngbznwgzubgurvmfwgiwji rzyyna”gRgzdgfidjfibgf.gxijyngf.gwq m,—Fmrw
hm.yigizxfmghmr mghigrumztrfgrwgtqfgzgj.rufgrugwjz iagM.hgczxgzjzxf,
fmrupgn.q,gbhiyygfmigfh.gd.wfgbrwfzufgrumztrfzufwg.cgn.ubixgwfzx,gfmi
txizbfmg.cghm.wigbrwpg zuu.fgtigzjjxi rzfibgtng.qxgruwfxqdiufw?gHmn
wm.qybgRgciiygy.uiyn?grwgu.fg.qxgjyzuifgrugfmigDrypngHzn?gFmrwghmr m
n.qgjqfgwiidwgf.gdigu.fgf.gtigfmigd.wfgrdj.xfzufglqiwfr.uagHmzfgw.xfg.c
wjz igrwgfmzfghmr mgwijzxzfiwgzgdzugcx.dgmrwgciyy.hwgzubgdzpiwgmrd
w.yrfzxn?gRgmzsigc.qubgfmzfgu.gioixfr.ug.cgfmigyivwg zugtxruvgfh.gdrubw
dq mguizxixgf.g.uigzu.fmixagHmzfgb.ghighzufgd.wfgf.gbhiyyguizxgf.?gU.f
f.gdzungdiugwqxiyn,gfmigbij.f,gfmigj.wf-.ccr i,gfmigtzx-x..d,gfmi
diifruv-m.qwi,gfmigw m..y-m.qwi,gfmigvx. ixn,gTiz .ugMryy,g.xgfmigCrsi
J.rufw,ghmixigdiugd.wfg .uvxivzfi,gtqfgf.gfmigjixiuurzygw.qx ig.cg.qx
yrci,ghmiu igrugzyyg.qxgiojixriu ighigmzsigc.qubgfmzfgf.grwwqi,gzwgfmi
hryy.hgwfzubwguizxgfmighzfixgzubgwiubwg.qfgrfwgx..fwgrugfmzfgbrxi fr.ua
Fmrwghryygszxnghrfmgbrccixiufguzfqxiw,gtqfgfmrwgrwgfmigjyz ighmixigz
hrwigdzughryygbrvgmrwg iyyzxaaaagRg.uigisiuruvg.sixf..pg.uig.cgdn
f.huwdiu,ghm.gmzwgz  qdqyzfibghmzfgrwg zyyibg“zgmzubw.di
jx.jixfn,”—fm.qvmgRguisixgv.fgzg_czrx_gsrihg.cgrf,—.ugfmigHzybiugx.zb,
bxrsruvgzgjzrxg.cg zffyigf.gdzxpif,ghm.grulqrxibg.cgdigm.hgRg .qyb
txruvgdngdrubgf.gvrsigqjgw.gdzung.cgfmig .dc.xfwg.cgyrciagRgzuwhixib
fmzfgRghzwgsixngwqxigRgyrpibgrfgjzwwztynghiyy;gRghzwgu.fgk.pruvagZubgw.
Rghiufgm.digf.gdngtib,gzubgyicfgmrdgf.gjr pgmrwghzngfmx.qvmgfmi
bzxpuiwwgzubgfmigdqbgf.gTxrvmf.u,—.xgTxrvmf-f.hu,—hmr mgjyz igmigh.qyb
xiz mgw.digfrdigrugfmigd.xuruva

Zungjx.wji fg.cgzhzpiuruvg.xg .druvgf.gyrcigf.gzgbizbgdzugdzpiw
rubrccixiufgzyygfrdiwgzubgjyz iwagFmigjyz ighmixigfmzfgdzng.  qxgrw
zyhznwgfmigwzdi,gzubgrubiw xrtztyngjyizwzufgf.gzyyg.qxgwiuwiwagC.xgfmi
d.wfgjzxfghigzyy.hg.uyng.qfynruvgzubgfxzuwriufg rx qdwfzu iwgf.gdzpi
.qxg.  zwr.uwagFmingzxi,grugcz f,gfmig zqwig.cg.qxgbrwfxz fr.uagUizxiwf
f.gzyygfmruvwgrwgfmzfgj.hixghmr mgczwmr.uwgfmirxgtiruvag_Uiof_gf.gqw
fmigvxzubiwfgyzhwgzxig .ufruqzyyngtiruvgioi qfibag_Uiof_gf.gqwgrwgu.f
fmigh.xpdzughm.dghigmzsigmrxib,ghrfmghm.dghigy.sigw.ghiyygf.gfzyp,gtqf
fmigh.xpdzughm.wigh.xpghigzxia

“M.hgszwfgzubgjx.c.qubgrwgfmigrucyqiu ig.cgfmigwqtfryigj.hixwg.cgMizsiu
zubg.cgIzxfm!”

“Higwiipgf.gjix irsigfmid,gzubghigb.gu.fgwiigfmid;ghigwiipgf.gmizx
fmid,gzubghigb.gu.fgmizxgfmid;grbiufrcribghrfmgfmigwqtwfzu ig.cgfmruvw,
fming zuu.fgtigwijzxzfibgcx.dgfmida”

“Fming zqwigfmzfgrugzyygfmigqursixwigdiugjqxrcngzubgwzu frcngfmirx
mizxfw,gzubg y.fmigfmidwiysiwgrugfmirxgm.yrbzngvzxdiufwgf.g.ccix
wz xrcr iwgzubg.tyzfr.uwgf.gfmirxgzu iwf.xwagRfgrwgzug. izug.cgwqtfryi
rufiyyrviu iwagFmingzxigisixnghmixi,gzt.sigqw,g.ug.qxgyicf,g.ug.qx
xrvmf;gfmingiusrx.ugqwg.ugzyygwrbiwa”

Higzxigfmigwqtki fwg.cgzugiojixrdiufghmr mgrwgu.fgzgyrffyigrufixiwfruv
f.gdiag zughigu.fgb.ghrfm.qfgfmigw. rifng.cg.qxgv.wwrjwgzgyrffyighmryi
qubixgfmiwig rx qdwfzu iw,—mzsig.qxg.hugfm.qvmfwgf.g miixgqw?g .ucq rqw
wznwgfxqyn,g“Srxfqigb.iwgu.fgxidzrugzwgzugztzub.uibg.xjmzu;grfgdqwfg.c
ui iwwrfngmzsiguirvmt.xwa”

Hrfmgfmrupruvghigdzngtigtiwrbig.qxwiysiwgrugzgwzuigwiuwiagTngz
 .uw r.qwgicc.xfg.cgfmigdrubghig zugwfzubgzy..cgcx.dgz fr.uwgzubgfmirx
 .uwilqiu iw;gzubgzyygfmruvw,gv..bgzubgtzb,gv.gtngqwgyrpigzgf.xxiufagHi
zxigu.fghm.yyngrus.ysibgrugUzfqxiagRgdzngtigirfmixgfmigbxrcf-h..bgru
fmigwfxizd,g.xgRubxzgrugfmigwpngy..pruvgb.hug.ugrfagRg_dzn_gtigzcci fib
tngzgfmizfxr zygiomrtrfr.u;g.ugfmig.fmixgmzub,gRg_dzngu.f_gtigzcci fib
tngzugz fqzygisiufghmr mgzjjizxwgf.g .u ixugdigdq mgd.xiagRg.uyngpu.h
dnwiycgzwgzgmqdzugiufrfn;gfmigw iui,gw.gf.gwjizp,g.cgfm.qvmfwgzub
zcci fr.uw;gzubgzdgwiuwrtyig.cgzg ixfzrugb.qtyiuiwwgtnghmr mgRg zu
wfzubgzwgxid.figcx.dgdnwiycgzwgcx.dgzu.fmixagM.hisixgrufiuwigdn
iojixriu i,gRgzdg .uw r.qwg.cgfmigjxiwiu igzubg xrfr rwdg.cgzgjzxfg.c
di,ghmr m,gzwgrfghixi,grwgu.fgzgjzxfg.cgdi,gtqfgwji fzf.x,gwmzxruvgu.
iojixriu i,gtqfgfzpruvgu.fig.cgrf;gzubgfmzfgrwgu.gd.xigRgfmzugrfgrw
n.qagHmiugfmigjyzn,grfgdzngtigfmigfxzvibn,g.cgyrcigrwg.six,gfmi
wji fzf.xgv.iwgmrwghznagRfghzwgzgprubg.cgcr fr.u,gzgh.xpg.cgfmi
rdzvruzfr.ug.uyn,gw.gczxgzwgmighzwg .u ixuibagFmrwgb.qtyiuiwwgdzn
izwryngdzpigqwgj..xguirvmt.xwgzubgcxriubwgw.difrdiwa

Rgcrubgrfghm.yiw.digf.gtigzy.uigfmigvxizfixgjzxfg.cgfmigfrdiagF.gtigru
 .djzun,gisiughrfmgfmigtiwf,grwgw..ughizxrw.digzubgbrwwrjzfruvagRgy.si
f.gtigzy.uiagRguisixgc.qubgfmig .djzur.ugfmzfghzwgw.g .djzur.uztyigzw
w.yrfqbiagHigzxigc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgd.xigy.uiynghmiughigv.gztx.zbgzd.uv
diugfmzughmiughigwfzngrug.qxg mzdtixwagZgdzugfmrupruvg.xgh.xpruvgrw
zyhznwgzy.ui,gyifgmrdgtighmixigmighryyagW.yrfqbigrwgu.fgdizwqxibgtngfmi
dryiwg.cgwjz igfmzfgrufixsiuigtifhiiugzgdzugzubgmrwgciyy.hwagFmigxizyyn
bryrviufgwfqbiufgrug.uig.cgfmig x.hbibgmrsiwg.cg zdtxrbvig .yyivigrwgzw
w.yrfzxngzwgzgbixsrwmgrugfmigbiwixfagFmigczxdixg zugh.xpgzy.uigrugfmi
criybg.xgfmigh..bwgzyygbzn,gm.iruvg.xg m.jjruv,gzubgu.fgciiygy.uiw.di,
ti zqwigmigrwgidjy.nib;gtqfghmiugmig .diwgm.digzfgurvmfgmig zuu.fgwrf
b.hugrugzgx..dgzy.ui,gzfgfmigdix ng.cgmrwgfm.qvmfw,gtqfgdqwfgtighmixi
mig zug“wiigfmigc.ypw,”gzubgxi xizfi,gzubgzwgmigfmrupwgxidquixzfi
mrdwiycgc.xgmrwgbzn’wgw.yrfqbi;gzubgmiu igmigh.ubixwgm.hgfmigwfqbiuf
 zugwrfgzy.uigrugfmigm.qwigzyygurvmfgzubgd.wfg.cgfmigbznghrfm.qfgiuuqr
zubg“fmigtyqiw;”gtqfgmigb.iwgu.fgxizyreigfmzfgfmigwfqbiuf,gfm.qvmgru
fmigm.qwi,grwgwfryygzfgh.xpgrug_mrw_gcriyb,gzubg m.jjruvgrug_mrw_
h..bw,gzwgfmigczxdixgrugmrw,gzubgrugfqxugwiipwgfmigwzdigxi xizfr.ugzub
w. rifngfmzfgfmigyzffixgb.iw,gfm.qvmgrfgdzngtigzgd.xig .ubiuwibgc.xdg.c
rfa

W. rifngrwg .dd.uyngf..g mizjagHigdiifgzfgsixngwm.xfgrufixszyw,gu.f
mzsruvgmzbgfrdigf.gz lqrxigzunguihgszyqigc.xgiz mg.fmixagHigdiifgzf
dizywgfmxiigfrdiwgzgbzn,gzubgvrsigiz mg.fmixgzguihgfzwfig.cgfmzfg.yb
dqwfng miiwigfmzfghigzxiagHigmzsigmzbgf.gzvxiig.ugzg ixfzrugwifg.c
xqyiw,g zyyibgifrlqiffigzubgj.yrfiuiww,gf.gdzpigfmrwgcxilqiufgdiifruv
f.yixztyigzubgfmzfghiguiibgu.fg .digf.g.jiughzxagHigdiifgzfgfmi
j.wf-.ccr i,gzubgzfgfmigw. rztyi,gzubgzt.qfgfmigcrxiwrbigisixngurvmf;
higyrsigfmr pgzubgzxigrugiz mg.fmix’wghzn,gzubgwfqdtyig.sixg.ui
zu.fmix,gzubgRgfmrupgfmzfghigfmqwgy.wigw.digxiwji fgc.xg.uigzu.fmixa
 ixfzruyngyiwwgcxilqiu ngh.qybgwqccr igc.xgzyygrdj.xfzufgzubgmizxfn
 .ddqur zfr.uwag .uwrbixgfmigvrxywgrugzgcz f.xn,—uisixgzy.ui,gmzxbyngru
fmirxgbxizdwagRfgh.qybgtigtiffixgrcgfmixighixigtqfg.uigrumztrfzufgf.gz
wlqzxigdryi,gzwghmixigRgyrsiagFmigszyqig.cgzgdzugrwgu.fgrugmrwgwpru,
fmzfghigwm.qybgf.q mgmrda

Rgmzsigmizxbg.cgzgdzugy.wfgrugfmigh..bwgzubgbnruvg.cgczdruigzub
iomzqwfr.ugzfgfmigc..fg.cgzgfxii,ghm.wigy.uiyruiwwghzwgxiyrisibgtngfmi
vx.fiwlqigsrwr.uwghrfmghmr m,g.hruvgf.gt.brynghizpuiww,gmrwgbrwizwib
rdzvruzfr.ugwqxx.qubibgmrd,gzubghmr mgmigtiyrisibgf.gtigxizyagW.gzyw.,
.hruvgf.gt.bryngzubgdiufzygmizyfmgzubgwfxiuvfm,ghigdzngtig .ufruqzyyn
 miixibgtngzgyrpigtqfgd.xigu.xdzygzubguzfqxzygw. rifn,gzubg .digf.gpu.h
fmzfghigzxiguisixgzy.uia

Rgmzsigzgvxizfgbizyg.cg .djzungrugdngm.qwi;giwji rzyyngrugfmigd.xuruv,
hmiugu.t.bng zyywagYifgdigwqvviwfgzgcihg .djzxrw.uw,gfmzfgw.dig.uigdzn
 .usingzugrbizg.cgdngwrfqzfr.uagRgzdgu.gd.xigy.uiyngfmzugfmigy..ugru
fmigj.ubgfmzfgyzqvmwgw.gy.qb,g.xgfmzugHzybiugJ.ubgrfwiycagHmzfg .djzun
mzwgfmzfgy.uiyngyzpi,gRgjxzn?gZubgnifgrfgmzwgu.fgfmigtyqigbisryw,gtqf
fmigtyqigzuviywgrugrf,grugfmigzeqxigfrufg.cgrfwghzfixwagFmigwqugrw
zy.ui,gio ijfgrugfmr pghizfmix,ghmiugfmixigw.difrdiwgzjjizxgf.gtigfh.,
tqfg.uigrwgzgd. pgwquagV.bgrwgzy.ui,—tqfgfmigbisry,gmigrwgczxgcx.d
tiruvgzy.ui;gmigwiiwgzgvxizfgbizyg.cg .djzun;gmigrwgyivr.uagRgzdgu.
d.xigy.uiyngfmzugzgwruvyigdqyyirug.xgbzubiyr.ugrugzgjzwfqxi,g.xgzgtizu
yizc,g.xgw.xxiy,g.xgzgm.xwi-cyn,g.xgzgtqdtyi-tiiagRgzdgu.gd.xigy.uiyn
fmzugfmigDryygTx..p,g.xgzghizfmix . p,g.xgfmigu.xfmgwfzx,g.xgfmigw.qfm
hrub,g.xgzugZjxrygwm.hix,g.xgzgKzuqzxngfmzh,g.xgfmigcrxwfgwjrbixgrugz
uihgm.qwia

Rgmzsig.  zwr.uzygsrwrfwgrugfmigy.uvghrufixgisiuruvw,ghmiugfmigwu.h
czyywgczwfgzubgfmighrubgm.hywgrugfmigh..b,gcx.dgzug.ybgwiffyixgzub
.xrvruzygjx.jxrif.x,ghm.grwgxij.xfibgf.gmzsigbqvgHzybiugJ.ub,gzub
wf.uibgrf,gzubgcxruvibgrfghrfmgjruigh..bw;ghm.gfiyywgdigwf.xriwg.cg.yb
frdigzubg.cguihgifixurfn;gzubgtifhiiugqwghigdzuzvigf.gjzwwgzg miixcqy
isiuruvghrfmgw. rzygdrxfmgzubgjyizwzufgsrihwg.cgfmruvw,gisiughrfm.qf
zjjyiwg.xg rbix,—zgd.wfghrwigzubgmqd.x.qwgcxriub,ghm.dgRgy.sigdq m,ghm.
piijwgmrdwiycgd.xigwi xifgfmzugisixgbrbgV.ccig.xgHmzyyin;gzubgfm.qvmgmi
rwgfm.qvmfgf.gtigbizb,gu.uig zugwm.hghmixigmigrwgtqxribagZugiybixyn
bzdi,gf..,gbhiyywgrugdnguirvmt.xm..b,grusrwrtyigf.gd.wfgjixw.uw,gru
hm.wig.b.x.qwgmixtgvzxbiugRgy.sigf.gwfx.yygw.difrdiw,gvzfmixruvgwrdjyiw
zubgyrwfiuruvgf.gmixgcztyiw;gc.xgwmigmzwgzgviurqwg.cgquilqzyyib
cixfryrfn,gzubgmixgdid.xngxquwgtz pgczxfmixgfmzugdnfm.y.vn,gzubgwmig zu
fiyygdigfmig.xrvruzyg.cgisixngcztyi,gzubg.ughmzfgcz fgisixng.uigrw
c.qubib,gc.xgfmigru rbiufwg.  qxxibghmiugwmighzwgn.quvagZgxqbbngzub
yqwfng.ybgbzdi,ghm.gbiyrvmfwgrugzyyghizfmixwgzubgwizw.uw,gzubgrwgyrpiyn
f.g.qfyrsigzyygmixg mrybxiugnifa

Fmigrubiw xrtztyigruu. iu igzubgtiuicr iu ig.cgUzfqxi,—.cgwqugzubghrub
zubgxzru,g.cgwqddixgzubghrufix,—wq mgmizyfm,gwq mg miix,gfmingzcc.xb
c.xisix!gzubgwq mgwndjzfmngmzsigfmingisixghrfmg.qxgxz i,gfmzfgzyy
Uzfqxigh.qybgtigzcci fib,gzubgfmigwqu’wgtxrvmfuiwwgczbi,gzubgfmighrubw
h.qybgwrvmgmqdzuiyn,gzubgfmig y.qbwgxzrugfizxw,gzubgfmigh..bwgwmib
fmirxgyizsiwgzubgjqfg.ugd.qxuruvgrugdrbwqddix,grcgzungdzugwm.qybgisix
c.xgzgkqwfg zqwigvxrisiagWmzyygRgu.fgmzsigrufiyyrviu ighrfmgfmigizxfm?
ZdgRgu.fgjzxfyngyizsiwgzubgsivifztyigd.qybgdnwiyc?

Hmzfgrwgfmigjryyghmr mghryygpiijgqwghiyy,gwixiui,g .ufiufib?gU.fgdng.x
fmngvxizf-vxzubczfmix’w,gtqfg.qxgvxizf-vxzubd.fmixgUzfqxi’wgqursixwzy,
sivifztyi,gt.fzur gdibr ruiw,gtnghmr mgwmigmzwgpijfgmixwiycgn.quv
zyhznw,g.qfyrsibgw.gdzung.ybgJzxxwgrugmixgbzn,gzubgcibgmixgmizyfmghrfm
fmirxgbi znruvgczfuiwwagC.xgdngjzuz iz,gruwfizbg.cg.uig.cgfm.wiglqz p
srzywg.cgzgdrofqxigbrjjibgcx.dgZ mix.ugzubgfmigBizbgWiz,ghmr mg .dig.qf
.cgfm.wigy.uvgwmzyy.hgtyz p-w m..uixgy..pruvghzv.uwghmr mghigw.difrdiw
wiigdzbigf.g zxxngt.ffyiw,gyifgdigmzsigzgbxzqvmfg.cgqubryqfibgd.xuruv
zrxagD.xuruvgzrx!gRcgdiughryygu.fgbxrupg.cgfmrwgzfgfmigc.qufzru-mizbg.c
fmigbzn,ghmn,gfmiu,ghigdqwfgisiugt.ffyigqjgw.digzubgwiyygrfgrugfmi
wm.jw,gc.xgfmigtiuicrfg.cgfm.wighm.gmzsigy.wfgfmirxgwqtw xrjfr.ugfr pif
f.gd.xuruvgfrdigrugfmrwgh.xybagTqfgxididtix,grfghryygu.fgpiijglqrfi
fryygu..u-bzngisiugrugfmig ..yiwfg iyyzx,gtqfgbxrsig.qfgfmigwf.jjyiw
y.uvgixigfmzfgzubgc.yy.hghiwfhzxbgfmigwfijwg.cgZqx.xzagRgzdgu.
h.xwmrjjixg.cgMnvirz,ghm.ghzwgfmigbzqvmfixg.cgfmzfg.ybgmixt-b. f.x
Æw qyzjrqw,gzubghm.grwgxijxiwiufibg.ugd.uqdiufwgm.ybruvgzgwixjiufgru
.uigmzub,gzubgrugfmig.fmixgzg qjg.qfg.cghmr mgfmigwixjiufgw.difrdiw
bxrupw;gtqfgxzfmixg.cgMiti,g qjtizxixgf.gKqjrfix,ghm.ghzwgfmigbzqvmfix
.cgKqu.gzubghrybgyiffq i,gzubghm.gmzbgfmigj.hixg.cgxiwf.xruvgv.bwgzub
diugf.gfmigsrv.xg.cgn.qfmagWmighzwgjx.tztyngfmig.uyngfm.x.qvmyn
w.qub- .ubrfr.uib,gmizyfmn,gzubgx.tqwfgn.quvgyzbngfmzfgisixghzypibgfmi
vy.ti,gzubghmixisixgwmig zdigrfghzwgwjxruva


Srwrf.xw

RgfmrupgfmzfgRgy.sigw. rifngzwgdq mgzwgd.wf,gzubgzdgxizbngiu.qvmgf.
czwfiugdnwiycgyrpigzgty..bwq pixgc.xgfmigfrdigf.gzungcqyy-ty..bibgdzu
fmzfg .diwgrugdnghznagRgzdguzfqxzyyngu.gmixdrf,gtqfgdrvmfgj.wwrtyngwrf
.qfgfmigwfqxbriwfgcxilqiufixg.cgfmigtzx-x..d,grcgdngtqwruiwwg zyyibgdi
fmrfmixa

Rgmzbgfmxiig mzrxwgrugdngm.qwi;g.uigc.xgw.yrfqbi,gfh.gc.xgcxriubwmrj,
fmxiigc.xgw. rifnagHmiugsrwrf.xwg zdigrugyzxvixgzubgquioji fibguqdtixw
fmixighzwgtqfgfmigfmrxbg mzrxgc.xgfmidgzyy,gtqfgfmingviuixzyyn
i .u.dreibgfmigx..dgtngwfzubruvgqjagRfgrwgwqxjxrwruvgm.hgdzungvxizfgdiu
zubgh.diugzgwdzyygm.qwighryyg .ufzruagRgmzsigmzbgfhiufn-crsig.xgfmrxfn
w.qyw,ghrfmgfmirxgt.briw,gzfg.u igqubixgdngx..c,gzubgnifghig.cfiu
jzxfibghrfm.qfgtiruvgzhzxigfmzfghigmzbg .digsixnguizxgf.g.uigzu.fmixa
Dzung.cg.qxgm.qwiw,gt.fmgjqtyr gzubgjxrszfi,ghrfmgfmirxgzyd.wf
ruuqdixztyigzjzxfdiufw,gfmirxgmqvigmzyywgzubgfmirxg iyyzxwgc.xgfmi
wf.xzvig.cghruiwgzubg.fmixgdqurfr.uwg.cgjiz i,gzjjizxgf.gdi
iofxzszvzufyngyzxvigc.xgfmirxgrumztrfzufwagFmingzxigw.gszwfgzub
dzvurcr iufgfmzfgfmigyzffixgwiidgf.gtig.uyngsixdrughmr mgruciwfgfmidagR
zdgwqxjxrwibghmiugfmigmixzybgty.hwgmrwgwqdd.uwgtic.xigw.digFxid.ufg.x
Zwf.xg.xgDrbbyiwiogM.qwi,gf.gwiig .dig xiijruvg.qfg.sixgfmigjrzeezgc.x
zyygrumztrfzufwgzgxrbr qy.qwgd.qwi,ghmr mgw..ugzvzrugwyrupwgruf.gw.di
m.yigrugfmigjzsidiufa

.uigru .usiuriu igRgw.difrdiwgiojixriu ibgrugw.gwdzyygzgm.qwi,gfmi
brccr qyfng.cgviffruvgf.gzgwqccr riufgbrwfzu igcx.dgdngvqiwfghmiughi
tivzugf.gqffixgfmigtrvgfm.qvmfwgrugtrvgh.xbwagN.qghzufgx..dgc.xgn.qx
fm.qvmfwgf.gvifgruf.gwzryruvgfxrdgzubgxqugzg .qxwig.xgfh.gtic.xigfmin
dzpigfmirxgj.xfagFmigtqyyifg.cgn.qxgfm.qvmfgdqwfgmzsig.six .digrfw
yzfixzygzubgxr . mifgd.fr.ugzubgczyyiugruf.grfwgyzwfgzubgwfizbng .qxwi
tic.xigrfgxiz miwgfmigizxg.cgfmigmizxix,giywigrfgdzngjy.qvmg.qfgzvzru
fmx.qvmgfmigwrbig.cgmrwgmizbagZyw.,g.qxgwiufiu iwghzufibgx..dgf.gquc.yb
zubgc.xdgfmirxg .yqduwgrugfmigrufixszyagRubrsrbqzyw,gyrpiguzfr.uw,gdqwf
mzsigwqrfztyigtx.zbgzubguzfqxzygt.qubzxriw,gisiugzg .uwrbixztyiguiqfxzy
vx.qub,gtifhiiugfmidagRgmzsigc.qubgrfgzgwruvqyzxgyqoqxngf.gfzypgz x.ww
fmigj.ubgf.gzg .djzur.ug.ugfmig.jj.wrfigwrbiagRugdngm.qwighighixigw.
uizxgfmzfghig .qybgu.fgtivrugf.gmizx,—hig .qybgu.fgwjizpgy.hgiu.qvmgf.
tigmizxb;gzwghmiugn.qgfmx.hgfh.gwf.uiwgruf.g zydghzfixgw.guizxgfmzf
fmingtxizpgiz mg.fmix’wgqubqyzfr.uwagRcghigzxigdixiyngy.lqz r.qwgzub
y.qbgfzypixw,gfmiughig zugzcc.xbgf.gwfzubgsixnguizxgf.vifmix,g miipgtn
k.hy,gzubgciiygiz mg.fmix’wgtxizfm;gtqfgrcghigwjizpgxiwixsibyngzub
fm.qvmfcqyyn,ghighzufgf.gtigczxfmixgzjzxf,gfmzfgzyygzurdzygmizfgzub
d.rwfqxigdzngmzsigzg mzu igf.giszj.xzfiagRcghigh.qybgiuk.ngfmigd.wf
rufrdzfigw. rifnghrfmgfmzfgrugiz mg.cgqwghmr mgrwghrfm.qf,g.xgzt.si,
tiruvgwj.piugf.,ghigdqwfgu.fg.uyngtigwryiuf,gtqfg .dd.uyngw.gczxgzjzxf
t.bryngfmzfghig zuu.fgj.wwrtyngmizxgiz mg.fmix’wgs.r igrugzung zwia
Xicixxibgf.gfmrwgwfzubzxb,gwjii mgrwgc.xgfmig .usiuriu ig.cgfm.wighm.
zxigmzxbg.cgmizxruv;gtqfgfmixigzxigdzungcruigfmruvwghmr mghig zuu.fgwzn
rcghigmzsigf.gwm.qfagZwgfmig .usixwzfr.ugtivzugf.gzwwqdigzgy.cfrixgzub
vxzubixgf.ui,ghigvxzbqzyyngwm.sibg.qxg mzrxwgczxfmixgzjzxfgfryygfmin
f.q mibgfmighzyygrug.jj.wrfig .xuixw,gzubgfmiug .dd.uyngfmixighzwgu.f
x..dgiu.qvma

Dng“tiwf”gx..d,gm.hisix,gdnghrfmbxzhruvgx..d,gzyhznwgxizbngc.xg .djzun,
.ughm.wig zxjifgfmigwqugxzxiyngciyy,ghzwgfmigjruigh..bgtimrubgdngm.qwia
Fmrfmixgrugwqddixgbznw,ghmiugbrwfruvqrwmibgvqiwfwg zdi,gRgf..pgfmid,
zubgzgjxr iyiwwgb.diwfr gwhijfgfmigcy..xgzubgbqwfibgfmigcqxurfqxigzub
pijfgfmigfmruvwgrug.xbixa

Rcg.uigvqiwfg zdigmigw.difrdiwgjzxf..pg.cgdngcxqvzygdizy,gzubgrfghzwgu.
rufixxqjfr.ugf.g .usixwzfr.ugf.gtigwfrxxruvgzgmzwfn-jqbbruv,g.x
hzf mruvgfmigxrwruvgzubgdzfqxruvg.cgzgy.zcg.cgtxizbgrugfmigzwmiw,gru
fmigdizughmryiagTqfgrcgfhiufng zdigzubgwzfgrugdngm.qwigfmixighzw
u.fmruvgwzrbgzt.qfgbruuix,gfm.qvmgfmixigdrvmfgtigtxizbgiu.qvmgc.xgfh.,
d.xigfmzugrcgizfruvghixigzgc.xwzpiugmztrf;gtqfghiguzfqxzyyngjxz frwib
ztwfruiu i;gzubgfmrwghzwguisixgciyfgf.gtigzug.cciu igzvzruwf
m.wjrfzyrfn,gtqfgfmigd.wfgjx.jixgzubg .uwrbixzfig .qxwiagFmighzwfigzub
bi zng.cgjmnwr zygyrci,ghmr mgw.g.cfiuguiibwgxijzrx,gwiidib
drxz qy.qwyngxifzxbibgrugwq mgzg zwi,gzubgfmigsrfzygsrv.xgwf..bgrfw
vx.qubagRg .qybgiufixfzrugfmqwgzgfm.qwzubgzwghiyygzwgfhiufn;gzubgrcgzun
isixghiufgzhzngbrwzjj.rufibg.xgmquvxngcx.dgdngm.qwighmiugfmingc.qubgdi
zfgm.di,gfmingdzngbijiubgqj.ugrfgfmzfgRgwndjzfmreibghrfmgfmidgzfgyizwfa
W.gizwngrwgrf,gfm.qvmgdzungm.qwipiijixwgb.qtfgrf,gf.giwfztyrwmguihgzub
tiffixg qwf.dwgrugfmigjyz ig.cgfmig.ybagN.qguiibgu.fgxiwfgn.qx
xijqfzfr.ug.ugfmigbruuixwgn.qgvrsiagC.xgdng.hugjzxf,gRghzwguisixgw.
icci fqzyyngbifixxibgcx.dgcxilqiufruvgzgdzu’wgm.qwi,gtngzungprubg.c
 ixtixqwghmzfisix,gzwgtngfmigjzxzbig.uigdzbigzt.qfgbruruvgdi,ghmr mgR
f..pgf.gtigzgsixngj.yrfigzubgx.qubzt.qfgmrufguisixgf.gfx.qtyigmrdgw.
zvzruagRgfmrupgRgwmzyyguisixgxisrwrfgfm.wigw iuiwagRgwm.qybgtigjx.qbgf.
mzsigc.xgfmigd.ff.g.cgdng ztrugfm.wigyruiwg.cgWjiuwixghmr mg.uig.cgdn
srwrf.xwgruw xrtibg.ugzgniyy.hghzyuqfgyizcgc.xgzg zxb:—

ggggg“Zxxrsébgfmixi,gfmigyrffyigm.qwigfmingcryy,
gggggggggUigy..pigc.xgiufixfzrudiufghmixigu.uighzw;
gggggXiwfgrwgfmirxgcizwf,gzubgzyygfmruvwgzfgfmirxghryy:
gggggggggFmigu.tyiwfgdrubgfmigtiwfg .ufiufdiufgmzwa”

HmiugHruwy.h,gzcfixhzxbgv.sixu.xg.cgfmigJynd.qfmg .y.un,ghiufghrfmgz
 .djzur.ug.ugzgsrwrfg.cg ixid.ungf.gDzwwzw.rfg.ugc..fgfmx.qvmgfmi
h..bw,gzubgzxxrsibgfrxibgzubgmquvxngzfgmrwgy.bvi,gfminghixighiyy
xi irsibgtngfmigpruv,gtqfgu.fmruvghzwgwzrbgzt.qfgizfruvgfmzfgbznagHmiu
fmigurvmfgzxxrsib,gf.glq.figfmirxg.hugh.xbw,—“Migyzrbgqwg.ugfmigtib
hrfmgmrdwiycgzubgmrwghrci,gfmingzfgfmig.uigiubgzubghigzfgfmig.fmix,grf
tiruvg.uyngjyzupwgyzrbgzgc..fgcx.dgfmigvx.qub,gzubgzgfmrugdzfgqj.u
fmidagFh.gd.xig.cgmrwg mricgdiu,gc.xghzufg.cgx..d,gjxiwwibgtngzubgqj.u
qw;gw.gfmzfghighixigh.xwighizxng.cg.qxgy.bvruvgfmzug.cg.qxgk.qxuina”gZf
.uig.’ y. pgfmiguiofgbzngDzwwzw.rfg“tx.qvmfgfh.gcrwmiwgfmzfgmigmzb
wm.f,”gzt.qfgfmxr igzwgtrvgzwgzgtxizd;g“fmiwigtiruvgt.ryib,gfmixighixi
zfgyizwfgc.xfngy..pibgc.xgzgwmzxigrugfmidagFmigd.wfgzfig.cgfmidagFmrw
dizyg.uynghigmzbgrugfh.gurvmfwgzubgzgbzn;gzubgmzbgu.fg.uig.cgqwgt.qvmf
zgjzxfxrbvi,ghigmzbgfzpiug.qxgk.qxuingczwfruva”gCizxruvgfmzfgfmingh.qyb
tigyrvmf-mizbibgc.xghzufg.cgc..bgzubgzyw.gwyiij,g.hruvgf.g“fmigwzszviw’
tzxtzx.qwgwruvruv,g(c.xgfmingqwibgf.gwruvgfmidwiysiwgzwyiij,)”gzubgfmzf
fmingdrvmfgvifgm.dighmryigfmingmzbgwfxiuvfmgf.gfxzsiy,gfmingbijzxfiba
Zwgc.xgy.bvruv,grfgrwgfxqigfminghixigtqfgj..xyngiufixfzruib,gfm.qvm
hmzfgfmingc.qubgzugru .usiuriu ighzwgu.gb.qtfgrufiubibgc.xgzugm.u.x;
tqfgzwgczxgzwgizfruvghzwg .u ixuib,gRgb.gu.fgwiigm.hgfmigRubrzuwg .qyb
mzsigb.uigtiffixagFmingmzbgu.fmruvgf.gizfgfmidwiysiw,gzubgfminghixi
hrwixgfmzugf.gfmrupgfmzfgzj.y.vriwg .qybgwqjjyngfmigjyz ig.cgc..bgf.
fmirxgvqiwfw;gw.gfmingbxihgfmirxgtiyfwgfrvmfixgzubgwzrbgu.fmruvgzt.qf
rfagZu.fmixgfrdighmiugHruwy.hgsrwrfibgfmid,grfgtiruvgzgwizw.ug.cgjyiufn
hrfmgfmid,gfmixighzwgu.gbicr riu ngrugfmrwgxiwji fa

Zwgc.xgdiu,gfminghryygmzxbyngczryg.uigzunghmixiagRgmzbgd.xigsrwrf.xw
hmryigRgyrsibgrugfmigh..bwgfmzugzfgzung.fmixgjixr.bgrugdngyrci;gRgdizu
fmzfgRgmzbgw.diagRgdifgwisixzygfmixigqubixgd.xigczs.xztyig rx qdwfzu iw
fmzugRg .qybgzunghmixigiywiagTqfgcihixg zdigf.gwiigdig.ugfxrsrzy
tqwruiwwagRugfmrwgxiwji f,gdng .djzunghzwghruu.hibgtngdngdixigbrwfzu i
cx.dgf.huagRgmzbghrfmbxzhugw.gczxghrfmrugfmigvxizfg. izug.cgw.yrfqbi,
ruf.ghmr mgfmigxrsixwg.cgw. rifngidjfn,gfmzfgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,gw.gczx
zwgdnguiibwghixig .u ixuib,g.uyngfmigcruiwfgwibrdiufghzwgbij.wrfib
zx.qubgdiagTiwrbi,gfmixighixighzcfibgf.gdigisrbiu iwg.cgquiojy.xibgzub
qu qyfrszfibg .ufruiufwg.ugfmig.fmixgwrbia

Hm.gwm.qybg .digf.gdngy.bvigfmrwgd.xuruvgtqfgzgfxqigM.dixr g.x
Jzjmyzv.urzugdzu,—migmzbgw.gwqrfztyigzubgj.ifr gzguzdigfmzfgRgzdgw.xxn
Rg zuu.fgjxrufgrfgmixi,—zg zuzbrzu,gzgh..b m.jjixgzubgj.wf-dzpix,ghm.
 zugm.yigcrcfngj.wfwgrugzgbzn,ghm.gdzbigmrwgyzwfgwqjjixg.ugzgh..b mq p
hmr mgmrwgb.vg zqvmfagMi,gf..,gmzwgmizxbg.cgM.dix,gzub,g“rcgrfghixigu.f
c.xgt..pw,”gh.qybg“u.fgpu.hghmzfgf.gb.gxzrungbznw,”gfm.qvmgjixmzjwgmi
mzwgu.fgxizbg.uighm.yyngfmx.qvmgc.xgdzungxzrungwizw.uwagW.digjxriwfghm.
 .qybgjx.u.qu igfmigVxiipgrfwiycgfzqvmfgmrdgf.gxizbgmrwgsixwigrugfmi
fiwfzdiufgrugmrwguzfrsigjzxrwmgczxgzhzn;gzubgu.hgRgdqwfgfxzuwyzfigf.
mrd,ghmryigmigm.ybwgfmigt..p,gZ mryyiw’gxijx..cgf.gJzfx. yqwgc.xgmrw
wzbg .qufiuzu ia—“Hmngzxign.qgrugfizxw,gJzfx. yqw,gyrpigzgn.quvgvrxy?”—

ggggg“.xgmzsign.qgzy.uigmizxbgw.diguihwgcx.dgJmfmrz?
gggggFmingwzngfmzfgDiuœfrqwgyrsiwgnif,gw.ug.cgZ f.x,
gggggZubgJiyiqwgyrsiw,gw.ug.cgÆz qw,gzd.uvgfmigDnxdrb.uw,
gggggIrfmixg.cghm.dgmzsruvgbrib,ghigwm.qybgvxizfyngvxrisia”

Migwznw,g“Fmzf’wgv..ba”gMigmzwgzgvxizfgtqubyig.cghmrfi-.zpgtzxpgqubix
mrwgzxdgc.xgzgwr pgdzu,gvzfmixibgfmrwgWqubzngd.xuruvag“Rgwqjj.wi
fmixi’wgu.gmzxdgrugv.ruvgzcfixgwq mgzgfmruvgf.-bzn,”gwznwgmiagF.gmrd
M.dixghzwgzgvxizfghxrfix,gfm.qvmghmzfgmrwghxrfruvghzwgzt.qfgmigbrbgu.f
pu.hagZgd.xigwrdjyigzubguzfqxzygdzugrfgh.qybgtigmzxbgf.gcrubagSr igzub
brwizwi,ghmr mg zwfgwq mgzgw.dtxigd.xzygmqig.sixgfmigh.xyb,gwiidibgf.
mzsigmzxbyngzungiorwfiu igc.xgmrdagMighzwgzt.qfgfhiufn-irvmfgnizxwg.yb,
zubgmzbgyicfg zuzbzgzubgmrwgczfmix’wgm.qwigzgb.eiugnizxwgtic.xigf.gh.xp
rugfmigWfzfiw,gzubgizxugd.uingf.gtqngzgczxdghrfmgzfgyzwf,gjixmzjwgru
mrwguzfrsig .qufxnagMighzwg zwfgrugfmig .zxwiwfgd.qyb;gzgwf.qfgtqf
wyqvvrwmgt.bn,gnifgvxz icqyyng zxxrib,ghrfmgzgfmr pgwqutqxufgui p,gbzxp
tqwmngmzrx,gzubgbqyygwyiijngtyqiginiw,ghmr mghixig.  zwr.uzyyngyrfgqj
hrfmgiojxiwwr.uagMigh.xigzgcyzfgvxzng y.fmg zj,gzgbruvngh..y- .y.xib
vxizf .zf,gzubg .hmrbigt..fwagMighzwgzgvxizfg .uwqdixg.cgdizf,gqwqzyyn
 zxxnruvgmrwgbruuixgf.gmrwgh.xpgzg .qjyig.cgdryiwgjzwfgdngm.qwi,—c.xgmi
 m.jjibgzyygwqddix,—rugzgfrugjzry;g .ybgdizfw,g.cfiug .ybgh..b mq pw,
zubg .cciigrugzgwf.uigt.ffyighmr mgbzuvyibgtngzgwfxruvgcx.dgmrwgtiyf;
zubgw.difrdiwgmig.ccixibgdigzgbxrupagMig zdigzy.uvgizxyn,g x.wwruvgdn
tizu-criyb,gfm.qvmghrfm.qfgzuorifng.xgmzwfigf.gvifgf.gmrwgh.xp,gwq mgzw
NzupiiwgiomrtrfagMighzwu’fgz-v.ruvgf.gmqxfgmrdwiycagMigbrbu’fg zxigrc
mig.uyngizxuibgmrwgt.zxbagCxilqiufyngmigh.qybgyizsigmrwgbruuixgrugfmi
tqwmiw,ghmiugmrwgb.vgmzbg zqvmfgzgh..b mq pgtngfmighzn,gzubgv.gtz pgz
dryigzubgzgmzycgf.gbxiwwgrfgzubgyizsigrfgrugfmig iyyzxg.cgfmigm.qwi
hmixigmigt.zxbib,gzcfixgbiyrtixzfruvgcrxwfgc.xgmzycgzugm.qxghmifmixgmi
 .qybgu.fgwrupgrfgrugfmigj.ubgwzciyngfryygurvmfczyy,—y.sruvgf.gbhiyy
y.uvgqj.ugfmiwigfmidiwagMigh.qybgwzn,gzwgmighiufgtngrugfmigd.xuruv,
“M.hgfmr pgfmigjrvi.uwgzxi!gRcgh.xpruvgisixngbznghixigu.fgdngfxzbi,gR
 .qybgvifgzyygfmigdizfgRgwm.qybghzufgtngmqufruv,—jrvi.uw,gh..b mq pw,
xzttrfw,gjzxfxrbviw,—tngv.wm!gRg .qybgvifgzyygRgwm.qybghzufgc.xgzghiip
rug.uigbzna”

Mighzwgzgwprycqyg m.jjix,gzubgrubqyvibgrugw.digcy.qxrwmiwgzubg.xuzdiufw
rugmrwgzxfagMig qfgmrwgfxiiwgyisiygzubg y.wigf.gfmigvx.qub,gfmzfgfmi
wjx.qfwghmr mg zdigqjgzcfixhzxbgdrvmfgtigd.xigsrv.x.qwgzubgzgwyibgdrvmf
wyrbig.sixgfmigwfqdjw;gzubgruwfizbg.cgyizsruvgzghm.yigfxiigf.gwqjj.xf
mrwg .xbibgh..b,gmigh.qybgjzxigrfgzhzngf.gzgwyiubixgwfzpig.xgwjyrufix
hmr mgn.qg .qybgtxizpg.ccghrfmgn.qxgmzubgzfgyzwfa

Migrufixiwfibgdigti zqwigmighzwgw.glqrifgzubgw.yrfzxngzubgw.gmzjjn
hrfmzy;gzghiyyg.cgv..bgmqd.xgzubg .ufiufdiufghmr mg.sixcy.hibgzfgmrw
iniwagMrwgdrxfmghzwghrfm.qfgzyy.nagW.difrdiwgRgwzhgmrdgzfgmrwgh.xpgru
fmigh..bw,gciyyruvgfxiiw,gzubgmigh.qybgvxiifgdighrfmgzgyzqvmg.c
ruiojxiwwrtyigwzfrwcz fr.u,gzubgzgwzyqfzfr.ugrug zuzbrzugCxiu m,gfm.qvm
migwj.pigIuvyrwmgzwghiyyagHmiugRgzjjx.z mibgmrdgmigh.qybgwqwjiubgmrw
h.xp,gzubghrfmgmzyc-wqjjxiwwibgdrxfmgyrigzy.uvgfmigfxqupg.cgzgjrui
hmr mgmigmzbgciyyib,gzub,gjiiyruvg.ccgfmigruuixgtzxp,gx.yygrfgqjgruf.gz
tzyygzubg mihgrfghmryigmigyzqvmibgzubgfzypibagWq mgzugioqtixzu ig.c
zurdzygwjrxrfwgmzbgmigfmzfgmigw.difrdiwgfqdtyibgb.hugzubgx.yyibg.ugfmi
vx.qubghrfmgyzqvmfixgzfgzungfmruvghmr mgdzbigmrdgfmrupgzubgfr pyibgmrda
Y..pruvgx.qubgqj.ugfmigfxiiwgmigh.qybgio yzrd,—“TngVi.xvi!gRg zugiuk.n
dnwiycghiyygiu.qvmgmixig m.jjruv;gRghzufgu.gtiffixgwj.xfa”gW.difrdiw,
hmiugzfgyirwqxi,gmigzdqwibgmrdwiycgzyygbzngrugfmigh..bwghrfmgzgj. pif
jrwf.y,gcrxruvgwzyqfiwgf.gmrdwiycgzfgxivqyzxgrufixszywgzwgmighzypibagRu
fmighrufixgmigmzbgzgcrxigtnghmr mgzfgu..ugmighzxdibgmrwg .cciigrugz
piffyi;gzubgzwgmigwzfg.ugzgy.vgf.gizfgmrwgbruuixgfmig mr pzbiiwgh.qyb
w.difrdiwg .digx.qubgzubgzyrvmfg.ugmrwgzxdgzubgji pgzfgfmigj.fzf.gru
mrwgcruvixw;gzubgmigwzrbgfmzfgmig“yrpibgf.gmzsigfmigyrffyig_ciyyixw_
zt.qfgmrda”

Rugmrdgfmigzurdzygdzug mricynghzwgbisiy.jibagRugjmnwr zygiubqxzu igzub
 .ufiufdiufgmighzwg .qwrugf.gfmigjruigzubgfmigx. pagRgzwpibgmrdg.u igrc
mighzwgu.fgw.difrdiwgfrxibgzfgurvmf,gzcfixgh.xpruvgzyygbzn;gzubgmi
zuwhixib,ghrfmgzgwru ixigzubgwixr.qwgy..p,g“V.xxzjjrf,gRguisixghzw
frxibgrugdngyrcia”gTqfgfmigrufiyyi fqzygzubghmzfgrwg zyyibgwjrxrfqzy
dzugrugmrdghixigwyqdtixruvgzwgrugzugruczufagMigmzbgtiiugruwfxq fibg.uyn
rugfmzfgruu. iufgzubgruicci fqzyghzngrughmr mgfmig zfm.yr gjxriwfw
fiz mgfmigzt.xrvruiw,gtnghmr mgfmigjqjrygrwguisixgibq zfibgf.gfmi
bivxiig.cg .uw r.qwuiww,gtqfg.uyngf.gfmigbivxiig.cgfxqwfgzubgxisixiu i,
zubgzg mrybgrwgu.fgdzbigzgdzu,gtqfgpijfgzg mrybagHmiugUzfqxigdzbigmrd,
wmigvzsigmrdgzgwfx.uvgt.bngzubg .ufiufdiufgc.xgmrwgj.xfr.u,gzubgjx.jjib
mrdg.ugisixngwrbighrfmgxisixiu igzubgxiyrzu i,gfmzfgmigdrvmfgyrsig.qf
mrwgfmxiiw .xignizxwgzubgfiugzg mrybagMighzwgw.gviuqruigzub
quw.jmrwfr zfibgfmzfgu.grufx.bq fr.ugh.qybgwixsigf.grufx.bq igmrd,gd.xi
fmzugrcgn.qgrufx.bq ibgzgh..b mq pgf.gn.qxguirvmt.xagMigmzbgv.fgf.gcrub
mrdg.qfgzwgn.qgbrbagMigh.qybgu.fgjyzngzungjzxfagDiugjzrbgmrdghzviwgc.x
h.xp,gzubgw.gmiyjibgf.gciibgzubg y.fmigmrd;gtqfgmiguisixgio mzuvib
.jrur.uwghrfmgfmidagMighzwgw.gwrdjyngzubguzfqxzyyngmqdtyi—rcgmig zugti
 zyyibgmqdtyighm.guisixgzwjrxiw—fmzfgmqdryrfnghzwgu.gbrwfru fglqzyrfn
rugmrd,gu.xg .qybgmig .u irsig.cgrfagHrwixgdiughixigbidrv.bwgf.gmrdagRc
n.qgf.ybgmrdgfmzfgwq mgzg.uighzwg .druv,gmigbrbgzwgrcgmigfm.qvmfgfmzf
zungfmruvgw.gvxzubgh.qybgioji fgu.fmruvg.cgmrdwiyc,gtqfgfzpigzyygfmi
xiwj.uwrtryrfng.ugrfwiyc,gzubgyifgmrdgtigc.xv.ffiugwfryyagMiguisix
mizxbgfmigw.qubg.cgjxzrwiagMigjzxfr qyzxyngxisixiu ibgfmighxrfixgzub
fmigjxiz mixagFmirxgjixc.xdzu iwghixigdrxz yiwagHmiugRgf.ybgmrdgfmzfgR
hx.fig .uwrbixztyn,gmigfm.qvmfgc.xgzgy.uvgfrdigfmzfgrfghzwgdixiyngfmi
mzubhxrfruvghmr mgRgdizuf,gc.xgmig .qybghxrfigzgxidzxpztyngv..bgmzub
mrdwiycagRgw.difrdiwgc.qubgfmiguzdig.cgmrwguzfrsigjzxrwmgmzubw.diyn
hxrffiugrugfmigwu.hgtngfmigmrvmhzn,ghrfmgfmigjx.jixgCxiu mgz  iuf,gzub
puihgfmzfgmigmzbgjzwwibagRgzwpibgmrdgrcgmigisixghrwmibgf.ghxrfigmrw
fm.qvmfwagMigwzrbgfmzfgmigmzbgxizbgzubghxrffiugyiffixwgc.xgfm.wighm.
 .qybgu.f,gtqfgmiguisixgfxribgf.ghxrfigfm.qvmfw,—u.,gmig .qybgu.f,gmi
 .qybgu.fgfiyyghmzfgf.gjqfgcrxwf,grfgh.qybgpryygmrd,gzubgfmiugfmixighzw
wjiyyruvgf.gtigzffiubibgf.gzfgfmigwzdigfrdi!

Rgmizxbgfmzfgzgbrwfruvqrwmibghrwigdzugzubgxic.xdixgzwpibgmrdgrcgmigbrb
u.fghzufgfmigh.xybgf.gtig mzuvib;gtqfgmigzuwhixibghrfmgzg mq pyig.c
wqxjxrwigrugmrwg zuzbrzugz  iuf,gu.fgpu.hruvgfmzfgfmiglqiwfr.ugmzbgisix
tiiugiufixfzruibgtic.xi,g“U.,gRgyrpigrfghiyygiu.qvma”gRfgh.qybgmzsi
wqvviwfibgdzungfmruvwgf.gzgjmry.w.jmixgf.gmzsigbizyruvwghrfmgmrdagF.gz
wfxzuvixgmigzjjizxibgf.gpu.hgu.fmruvg.cgfmruvwgrugviuixzy;gnifgR
w.difrdiwgwzhgrugmrdgzgdzughm.dgRgmzbgu.fgwiiugtic.xi,gzubgRgbrbgu.f
pu.hghmifmixgmighzwgzwghrwigzwgWmzpiwjizxig.xgzwgwrdjyngrvu.xzufgzwgz
 mryb,ghmifmixgf.gwqwji fgmrdg.cgzgcruigj.ifr g .uw r.qwuiwwg.xg.c
wfqjrbrfnagZgf.huwdzugf.ybgdigfmzfghmiugmigdifgmrdgwzqufixruvgfmx.qvm
fmigsryyzvigrugmrwgwdzyyg y.wi-crffruvg zj,gzubghmrwfyruvgf.gmrdwiyc,
migxidrubibgmrdg.cgzgjxru igrugbrwvqrwia

Mrwg.uyngt..pwghixigzugzydzuz gzubgzugzxrfmdifr ,grughmr mgyzwfgmighzw
 .uwrbixztyngiojixfagFmigc.xdixghzwgzgw.xfg.cg n y.jæbrzgf.gmrd,ghmr m
migwqjj.wibgf.g .ufzrugzugztwfxz fg.cgmqdzugpu.hyibvi,gzwgrubiibgrf
b.iwgf.gzg .uwrbixztyigiofiufagRgy.sibgf.gw.qubgmrdg.ugfmigszxr.qw
xic.xdwg.cgfmigbzn,gzubgmiguisixgczryibgf.gy..pgzfgfmidgrugfmigd.wf
wrdjyigzubgjxz fr zygyrvmfagMigmzbguisixgmizxbg.cgwq mgfmruvwgtic.xia
 .qybgmigb.ghrfm.qfgcz f.xriw?gRgzwpibagMigmzbgh.xugfmigm.di-dzbi
Sixd.ufgvxzn,gmigwzrb,gzubgfmzfghzwgv..bag .qybgmigbrwjiuwighrfmgfiz
zubg .ccii?gBrbgfmrwg .qufxngzcc.xbgzungtisixzvigtiwrbighzfix?gMigmzb
w.zpibgmidy. pgyizsiwgrughzfixgzubgbxzupgrf,gzubgfm.qvmfgfmzfghzw
tiffixgfmzughzfixgrughzxdghizfmixagHmiugRgzwpibgmrdgrcgmig .qybgb.
hrfm.qfgd.uin,gmigwm.hibgfmig .usiuriu ig.cgd.uingrugwq mgzghzngzwgf.
wqvviwfgzubg .ru rbighrfmgfmigd.wfgjmry.w.jmr zygz  .qufwg.cgfmig.xrvru
.cgfmrwgruwfrfqfr.u,gzubgfmigsixngbixrszfr.ug.cgfmigh.xbg_ji qurz_agRc
zug.oghixigmrwgjx.jixfn,gzubgmighrwmibgf.gvifguiibyiwgzubgfmxizbgzfgfmi
wf.xi,gmigfm.qvmfgrfgh.qybgtigru .usiuriufgzubgrdj.wwrtyigw..ugf.gv.g.u
d.xfvzvruvgw.digj.xfr.ug.cgfmig xizfqxigiz mgfrdigf.gfmzfgzd.qufagMi
 .qybgbiciubgdzungruwfrfqfr.uwgtiffixgfmzugzungjmry.w.jmix,gti zqwi,gru
biw xrtruvgfmidgzwgfming .u ixuibgmrd,gmigvzsigfmigfxqigxizw.ugc.x
fmirxgjxiszyiu i,gzubgwji qyzfr.ugmzbgu.fgwqvviwfibgf.gmrdgzung.fmixa
Zfgzu.fmixgfrdi,gmizxruvgJyzf.’wgbicrurfr.ug.cgzgdzu,—zgtrjibghrfm.qf
cizfmixw,—zubgfmzfg.uigiomrtrfibgzg . pgjyq pibgzubg zyyibgrfgJyzf.’w
dzu,gmigfm.qvmfgrfgzugrdj.xfzufgbrccixiu igfmzfgfmig_puiiw_gtiufgfmi
hx.uvghznagMigh.qybgw.difrdiwgio yzrd,g“M.hgRgy.sigf.gfzyp!gTngVi.xvi,
Rg .qybgfzypgzyygbzn!”gRgzwpibgmrdg.u i,ghmiugRgmzbgu.fgwiiugmrdgc.x
dzungd.ufmw,grcgmigmzbgv.fgzguihgrbizgfmrwgwqddixag“V..bgY.xb,”gwzrb
mi,g“zgdzugfmzfgmzwgf.gh.xpgzwgRgb.,grcgmigb.iwgu.fgc.xvifgfmigrbizwgmi
mzwgmzb,gmighryygb.ghiyyagDzngtigfmigdzugn.qgm.ighrfmgrwgru yruibgf.
xz i;gfmiu,gtngv.xxn,gn.qxgdrubgdqwfgtigfmixi;gn.qgfmrupg.cghiibwa”gMi
h.qybgw.difrdiwgzwpgdigcrxwfg.ugwq mg.  zwr.uw,grcgRgmzbgdzbigzun
rdjx.sidiufag.uighrufixgbzngRgzwpibgmrdgrcgmighzwgzyhznwgwzfrwcribghrfm
mrdwiyc,ghrwmruvgf.gwqvviwfgzgwqtwfrfqfighrfmrugmrdgc.xgfmigjxriwf
hrfm.qf,gzubgw.digmrvmixgd.frsigc.xgyrsruvag“Wzfrwcrib!”gwzrbgmi;g“w.di
diugzxigwzfrwcribghrfmg.uigfmruv,gzubgw.dighrfmgzu.fmixag.uigdzu,
jixmzjw,grcgmigmzwgv.fgiu.qvm,ghryygtigwzfrwcribgf.gwrfgzyygbznghrfm
mrwgtz pgf.gfmigcrxigzubgmrwgtiyyngf.gfmigfztyi,gtngVi.xvi!”gNifgR
uisix,gtngzungdzuœqsxruv,g .qybgvifgmrdgf.gfzpigfmigwjrxrfqzygsrihg.c
fmruvw;gfmigmrvmiwfgfmzfgmigzjjizxibgf.g .u irsig.cghzwgzgwrdjyi
iojibriu n,gwq mgzwgn.qgdrvmfgioji fgzugzurdzygf.gzjjxi rzfi;gzubgfmrw,
jxz fr zyyn,grwgfxqig.cgd.wfgdiuagRcgRgwqvviwfibgzungrdjx.sidiufgrugmrw
d.big.cgyrci,gmigdixiyngzuwhixib,ghrfm.qfgiojxiwwruvgzungxivxif,gfmzf
rfghzwgf..gyzfiagNifgmigfm.x.qvmyngtiyrisibgrugm.uiwfngzubgfmigyrpi
srxfqiwa

Fmixighzwgzg ixfzrugj.wrfrsig.xrvruzyrfn,gm.hisixgwyrvmf,gf.gti
bifi fibgrugmrd,gzubgRg.  zwr.uzyyng.twixsibgfmzfgmighzwgfmrupruvgc.x
mrdwiycgzubgiojxiwwruvgmrwg.hug.jrur.u,gzgjmiu.diu.ugw.gxzxigfmzfgR
h.qybgzungbznghzypgfiugdryiwgf.g.twixsigrf,gzubgrfgzd.qufibgf.gfmi
xi-.xrvruzfr.ug.cgdzung.cgfmigruwfrfqfr.uwg.cgw. rifnagFm.qvmgmi
miwrfzfib,gzubgjixmzjwgczryibgf.giojxiwwgmrdwiycgbrwfru fyn,gmigzyhznw
mzbgzgjxiwiufztyigfm.qvmfgtimrubagNifgmrwgfmrupruvghzwgw.gjxrdrfrsigzub
rddixwibgrugmrwgzurdzygyrci,gfmzf,gfm.qvmgd.xigjx.drwruvgfmzugzgdixiyn
yizxuibgdzu’w,grfgxzxiyngxrjiuibgf.gzungfmruvghmr mg zugtigxij.xfibagMi
wqvviwfibgfmzfgfmixigdrvmfgtigdiug.cgviurqwgrugfmigy.hiwfgvxzbiwg.c
yrci,gm.hisixgjixdzuiufyngmqdtyigzubgryyrfixzfi,ghm.gfzpigfmirxg.hu
srihgzyhznw,g.xgb.gu.fgjxifiubgf.gwiigzfgzyy;ghm.gzxigzwgt.ff.dyiww
isiugzwgHzybiugJ.ubghzwgfm.qvmfgf.gti,gfm.qvmgfmingdzngtigbzxpgzub
dqbbna



Dzungzgfxzsiyyixg zdig.qfg.cgmrwghzngf.gwiigdigzubgfmigruwrbig.cgdn
m.qwi,gzub,gzwgzugio qwigc.xg zyyruv,gzwpibgc.xgzgvyzwwg.cghzfixagR
f.ybgfmidgfmzfgRgbxzupgzfgfmigj.ub,gzubgj.rufibgfmrfmix,g.ccixruvgf.
yiubgfmidgzgbrjjixagCzxg.ccgzwgRgyrsib,gRghzwgu.fgioidjfibgcx.dgfmi
zuuqzygsrwrfzfr.ughmr mg.  qxw,gdifmrupw,gzt.qfgfmigcrxwfg.cgZjxry,
hmiugisixngt.bngrwg.ugfmigd.si;gzubgRgmzbgdngwmzxig.cgv..bgyq p,gfm.qvm
fmixighixigw.dig qxr.qwgwji rdiuwgzd.uvgdngsrwrf.xwagMzyc-hrffibgdiu
cx.dgfmigzydwm.qwigzubgiywihmixig zdigf.gwiigdi;gtqfgRgiubizs.xibgf.
dzpigfmidgioix rwigzyygfmighrfgfmingmzb,gzubgdzpigfmirxg .uciwwr.uwgf.
di;grugwq mg zwiwgdzpruvghrfgfmigfmidig.cg.qxg .usixwzfr.u;gzubgw.ghzw
 .djiuwzfibagRubiib,gRgc.qubgw.dig.cgfmidgf.gtighrwixgfmzugfmigw.
 zyyibg_.sixwiixw_g.cgfmigj..xgzubgwiyi fdiug.cgfmigf.hu,gzubgfm.qvmf
rfghzwgfrdigfmzfgfmigfztyiwghixigfqxuibagHrfmgxiwji fgf.ghrf,gRgyizxuib
fmzfgfmixighzwgu.fgdq mgbrccixiu igtifhiiugfmigmzycgzubgfmighm.yiag.ui
bzn,grugjzxfr qyzx,gzugru.cciuwrsi,gwrdjyi-drubibgjzqjix,ghm.dghrfm
.fmixwgRgmzbg.cfiugwiiugqwibgzwgciu ruvgwfqcc,gwfzubruvg.xgwrffruvg.ugz
tqwmiygrugfmigcriybwgf.gpiijg zffyigzubgmrdwiycgcx.dgwfxznruv,gsrwrfib
di,gzubgiojxiwwibgzghrwmgf.gyrsigzwgRgbrbagMigf.ybgdi,ghrfmgfmigqfd.wf
wrdjyr rfngzubgfxqfm,glqrfigwqjixr.x,g.xgxzfmixg_rucixr.x_,gf.gzun
fmruvgfmzfgrwg zyyibgmqdryrfn,gfmzfgmighzwg“bicr riufgrugrufiyyi fa”
Fmiwighixigmrwgh.xbwagFmigY.xbgmzbgdzbigmrdgw.,gnifgmigwqjj.wibgfmi
Y.xbg zxibgzwgdq mgc.xgmrdgzwgc.xgzu.fmixag“Rgmzsigzyhznwgtiiugw.,”
wzrbgmi,g“cx.dgdng mrybm..b;gRguisixgmzbgdq mgdrub;gRghzwgu.fgyrpi
.fmixg mrybxiu;gRgzdghizpgrugfmigmizbagRfghzwgfmigY.xb’wghryy,gR
wqjj.wia”gZubgfmixigmighzwgf.gjx.sigfmigfxqfmg.cgmrwgh.xbwagMighzwgz
difzjmnwr zygjqeeyigf.gdiagRgmzsigxzxiyngdifgzgciyy.h-dzug.ugwq m
jx.drwruvgvx.qub,—rfghzwgw.gwrdjyigzubgwru ixigzubgw.gfxqigzyygfmzfgmi
wzrbagZub,gfxqigiu.qvm,grugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgmigzjjizxibgf.gmqdtyigmrdwiyc
hzwgmigiozyfibagRgbrbgu.fgpu.hgzfgcrxwfgtqfgrfghzwgfmigxiwqyfg.cgzghrwi
j.yr nagRfgwiidibgfmzfgcx.dgwq mgzgtzwrwg.cgfxqfmgzubgcxzupuiwwgzwgfmi
j..xghizp-mizbibgjzqjixgmzbgyzrb,g.qxgrufix .qxwigdrvmfgv.gc.xhzxbgf.
w.difmruvgtiffixgfmzugfmigrufix .qxwig.cgwzviwa

Rgmzbgw.digvqiwfwgcx.dgfm.wigu.fgxi p.uibg .dd.uyngzd.uvgfmigf.hu’w
j..x,gtqfghm.gwm.qybgti;ghm.gzxigzd.uvgfmigh.xyb’wgj..x,gzfgzungxzfi;
vqiwfwghm.gzjjizy,gu.fgf.gn.qxgm.wjrfzyrfn,gtqfgf.gn.qx
_m.wjrfzyzyrfn_;ghm.gizxuiwfynghrwmgf.gtigmiyjib,gzubgjxicz igfmirx
zjjizyghrfmgfmigruc.xdzfr.ugfmzfgfmingzxigxiw.ysib,gc.xg.uigfmruv,
uisixgf.gmiyjgfmidwiysiwagRgxilqrxig.cgzgsrwrf.xgfmzfgmigtigu.f
z fqzyyngwfzxsruv,gfm.qvmgmigdzngmzsigfmigsixngtiwfgzjjifrfigrugfmi
h.xyb,gm.hisixgmigv.fgrfag.tki fwg.cg mzxrfngzxigu.fgvqiwfwagDiughm.
brbgu.fgpu.hghmiugfmirxgsrwrfgmzbgfixdruzfib,gfm.qvmgRghiufgzt.qfgdn
tqwruiwwgzvzru,gzuwhixruvgfmidgcx.dgvxizfixgzubgvxizfixgxid.fiuiwwagDiu
.cgzyd.wfgisixngbivxiig.cghrfg zyyibg.ugdigrugfmigdrvxzfruvgwizw.ua
W.dighm.gmzbgd.xighrfwgfmzugfmingpuihghmzfgf.gb.ghrfm;gxquzhzngwyzsiw
hrfmgjyzufzfr.ugdzuuixw,ghm.gyrwfiuibgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gyrpigfmigc.o
rugfmigcztyi,gzwgrcgfmingmizxbgfmigm.qubwgz-tznruvg.ugfmirxgfxz p,gzub
y..pibgzfgdigtiwii mruvyn,gzwgdq mgzwgf.gwzn,—

ggggg“.g mxrwfrzu,ghryygn.qgwiubgdigtz p?”

.uigxizygxquzhzngwyzsi,gzd.uvgfmigxiwf,ghm.dgRgmiyjibgf.gc.xhzxbgf.hzxb
fmigu.xfmwfzxagDiug.cg.uigrbiz,gyrpigzgmiughrfmg.uig mr piu,gzubgfmzfgz
bq pyruv;gdiug.cgzgfm.qwzubgrbizw,gzubgqupidjfgmizbw,gyrpigfm.wigmiuw
hmr mgzxigdzbigf.gfzpig mzxvig.cgzgmqubxibg mr piuw,gzyygrugjqxwqrfg.c
.uigtqv,gzgw .xig.cgfmidgy.wfgrugisixngd.xuruv’wgbih,—zubgti .di
cxreeyibgzubgdzuvngrug .uwilqiu i;gdiug.cgrbizwgruwfizbg.cgyivw,gzgw.xf
.cgrufiyyi fqzyg iufrjibigfmzfgdzbign.qg xzhygzyyg.sixag.uigdzu
jx.j.wibgzgt..pgrughmr mgsrwrf.xwgwm.qybghxrfigfmirxguzdiw,gzwgzfgfmi
HmrfigD.qufzruw;gtqf,gzyzw!gRgmzsigf..gv..bgzgdid.xngf.gdzpigfmzf
ui iwwzxna

Rg .qybgu.fgtqfgu.fr igw.dig.cgfmigji qyrzxrfriwg.cgdngsrwrf.xwagVrxyw
zubgt.nwgzubgn.quvgh.diugviuixzyyngwiidibgvyzbgf.gtigrugfmigh..bwagFmin
y..pibgrugfmigj.ubgzubgzfgfmigcy.hixw,gzubgrdjx.sibgfmirxgfrdiagDiug.c
tqwruiww,gisiugczxdixw,gfm.qvmfg.uyng.cgw.yrfqbigzubgidjy.ndiuf,gzubg.c
fmigvxizfgbrwfzu igzfghmr mgRgbhiyfgcx.dgw.difmruvg.xg.fmix;gzubgfm.qvm
fmingwzrbgfmzfgfmingy.sibgzgxzdtyigrugfmigh..bwg.  zwr.uzyyn,grfghzw
.tsr.qwgfmzfgfmingbrbgu.fagXiwfyiwwg .ddrffibgdiu,ghm.wigfrdighzwgzyy
fzpiugqjgrugviffruvgzgyrsruvg.xgpiijruvgrf;gdrurwfixwghm.gwj.pig.cgV.b
zwgrcgfmingiuk.nibgzgd.u.j.yng.cgfmigwqtki f,ghm.g .qybgu.fgtizxgzyy
prubwg.cg.jrur.uw;gb. f.xw,gyzhnixw,gquizwngm.qwipiijixwghm.gjxribgruf.
dng qjt.zxbgzubgtibghmiugRghzwg.qf,—m.hg zdigDxwag——gf.gpu.hgfmzfgdn
wmiifwghixigu.fgzwg yizugzwgmixw?—n.quvgdiughm.gmzbg izwibgf.gtign.quv,
zubgmzbg .u yqbibgfmzfgrfghzwgwzciwfgf.gc.yy.hgfmigtizfiugfxz pg.cgfmi
jx.ciwwr.uw,—zyygfmiwigviuixzyyngwzrbgfmzfgrfghzwgu.fgj.wwrtyigf.gb.gw.
dq mgv..bgrugdngj.wrfr.uagZn!gfmixighzwgfmigxqtagFmig.ybgzubgrucrxdgzub
fmigfrdrb,g.cghmzfisixgzvig.xgwio,gfm.qvmfgd.wfg.cgwr puiww,gzubgwqbbiu
z  rbiufgzubgbizfm;gf.gfmidgyrcigwiidibgcqyyg.cgbzuvix,—hmzfgbzuvixgrw
fmixigrcgn.qgb.u’fgfmrupg.cgzun?—zubgfmingfm.qvmfgfmzfgzgjxqbiufgdzu
h.qybg zxicqyyngwiyi fgfmigwzciwfgj.wrfr.u,ghmixigBxagTagdrvmfgtig.u
mzubgzfgzgd.diuf’wghzxuruvagF.gfmidgfmigsryyzvighzwgyrfixzyyngz
_ .d-dqurfn_,gzgyizvqigc.xgdqfqzygbiciu i,gzubgn.qgh.qybgwqjj.wigfmzf
fmingh.qybgu.fgv.gz-mq pyitixxnruvghrfm.qfgzgdibr ruig miwfagFmigzd.quf
.cgrfgrw,grcgzgdzugrwgzyrsi,gfmixigrwgzyhznwg_bzuvix_gfmzfgmigdzngbri,
fm.qvmgfmigbzuvixgdqwfgtigzyy.hibgf.gtigyiwwgrugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgmigrw
bizb-zub-zyrsigf.gtivrughrfmagZgdzugwrfwgzwgdzungxrwpwgzwgmigxquwa
Cruzyyn,gfmixighixigfmigwiyc-wfnyibgxic.xdixw,gfmigvxizfiwfgt.xiwg.c
zyy,ghm.gfm.qvmfgfmzfgRghzwgc.xisixgwruvruv,—

gggggFmrwgrwgfmigm.qwigfmzfgRgtqryf;
gggggFmrwgrwgfmigdzugfmzfgyrsiwgrugfmigm.qwigfmzfgRgtqryf;

tqfgfmingbrbgu.fgpu.hgfmzfgfmigfmrxbgyruighzw,—

gggggFmiwigzxigfmigc.ypwgfmzfgh.xxngfmigdzu
gggggFmzfgyrsiwgrugfmigm.qwigfmzfgRgtqryfa

Rgbrbgu.fgcizxgfmigmiu-mzxxrixw,gc.xgRgpijfgu.g mr piuw;gtqfgRgcizxib
fmigdiu-mzxxrixwgxzfmixa

Rgmzbgd.xig miixruvgsrwrf.xwgfmzugfmigyzwfag mrybxiug .digz-tixxnruv,
xzryx.zbgdiugfzpruvgzgWqubzngd.xuruvghzypgrug yizugwmrxfw,gcrwmixdiu
zubgmqufixw,gj.ifwgzubgjmry.w.jmixw;grugwm.xf,gzyygm.uiwfgjryvxrdw,ghm.
 zdig.qfgf.gfmigh..bwgc.xgcxiib.d’wgwzpi,gzubgxizyyngyicfgfmigsryyzvi
timrub,gRghzwgxizbngf.gvxiifghrfm,—“Hiy .di,gIuvyrwmdiu!ghiy .di,
Iuvyrwmdiu!”gc.xgRgmzbgmzbg .ddqur zfr.ughrfmgfmzfgxz ia


FmigTizu-Criyb

Dizuhmryigdngtizuw,gfmigyiuvfmg.cghm.wigx.hw,gzbbibgf.vifmix,ghzwgwisiu
dryiwgzyxizbngjyzufib,ghixigrdjzfriufgf.gtigm.ib,gc.xgfmigizxyriwfgmzb
vx.hug .uwrbixztyngtic.xigfmigyzfiwfghixigrugfmigvx.qub;grubiibgfmin
hixigu.fgizwryngf.gtigjqfg.ccagHmzfghzwgfmigdizuruvg.cgfmrwgw.gwfizbn
zubgwiyc-xiwji fruv,gfmrwgwdzyygMix qyizugyzt.x,gRgpuihgu.fagRg zdigf.
y.sigdngx.hw,gdngtizuw,gfm.qvmgw.gdzungd.xigfmzugRghzufibagFmin
zffz mibgdigf.gfmigizxfm,gzubgw.gRgv.fgwfxiuvfmgyrpigZufæqwagTqfghmn
wm.qybgRgxzrwigfmid?g.uyngMizsiugpu.hwagFmrwghzwgdng qxr.qwgyzt.xgzyy
wqddix,—f.gdzpigfmrwgj.xfr.ug.cgfmigizxfm’wgwqxcz i,ghmr mgmzbgnriybib
.uyng rulqic.ry,gtyz ptixxriw,gk.muwh.xf,gzubgfmigyrpi,gtic.xi,gwhiif
hrybgcxqrfwgzubgjyizwzufgcy.hixw,gjx.bq igruwfizbgfmrwgjqywiagHmzf
wmzyygRgyizxug.cgtizuwg.xgtizuwg.cgdi?gRg mixrwmgfmid,gRgm.igfmid,
izxyngzubgyzfigRgmzsigzuginigf.gfmid;gzubgfmrwgrwgdngbzn’wgh.xpagRfgrw
zgcruigtx.zbgyizcgf.gy..pg.uagDngzqoryrzxriwgzxigfmigbihwgzubgxzruw
hmr mghzfixgfmrwgbxngw.ry,gzubghmzfgcixfryrfngrwgrugfmigw.rygrfwiyc,
hmr mgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgrwgyizugzubgiccifiagDngiuidriwgzxigh.xdw,g ..y
bznw,gzubgd.wfg.cgzyygh..b mq pwagFmigyzwfgmzsigurttyibgc.xgdigz
lqzxfixg.cgzugz xig yizuagTqfghmzfgxrvmfgmzbgRgf.g.qwfgk.muwh.xfgzub
fmigxiwf,gzubgtxizpgqjgfmirxgzu riufgmixtgvzxbiu?gW..u,gm.hisix,gfmi
xidzruruvgtizuwghryygtigf..gf.qvmgc.xgfmid,gzubgv.gc.xhzxbgf.gdiifguih
c.iwa

HmiugRghzwgc.qxgnizxwg.yb,gzwgRghiyygxididtix,gRghzwgtx.qvmfgcx.d
T.wf.ugf.gfmrwgdnguzfrsigf.hu,gfmx.qvmgfmiwigsixngh..bwgzubgfmrwgcriyb,
f.gfmigj.ubagRfgrwg.uig.cgfmig.ybiwfgw iuiwgwfzdjibg.ugdngdid.xnagZub
u.hgf.-urvmfgdngcyqfigmzwghzpibgfmigi m.iwg.sixgfmzfgsixnghzfixagFmi
jruiwgwfryygwfzubgmixig.ybixgfmzugR;g.x,grcgw.digmzsigczyyiu,gRgmzsi
 ..pibgdngwqjjixghrfmgfmirxgwfqdjw,gzubgzguihgvx.hfmgrwgxrwruvgzyy
zx.qub,gjxijzxruvgzu.fmixgzwji fgc.xguihgruczufginiwagZyd.wfgfmigwzdi
k.muwh.xfgwjxruvwgcx.dgfmigwzdigjixiuurzygx..fgrugfmrwgjzwfqxi,gzub
isiugRgmzsigzfgyiuvfmgmiyjibgf.g y.fmigfmzfgcztqy.qwgyzubw zjig.cgdn
ruczufgbxizdw,gzubg.uig.cgfmigxiwqyfwg.cgdngjxiwiu igzubgrucyqiu igrw
wiiugrugfmiwigtizugyizsiw,g .xugtyzbiw,gzubgj.fzf.gsruiwa

Rgjyzufibgzt.qfgfh.gz xiwgzubgzgmzycg.cgqjyzub;gzubgzwgrfghzwg.uyn
zt.qfgcrcfiiugnizxwgwru igfmigyzubghzwg yizxib,gzubgRgdnwiycgmzbgv.f
.qfgfh.g.xgfmxiig .xbwg.cgwfqdjw,gRgbrbgu.fgvrsigrfgzungdzuqxi;gtqfgru
fmig .qxwig.cgfmigwqddixgrfgzjjizxibgtngfmigzxx.hmizbwghmr mgRgfqxuib
qjgrugm.iruv,gfmzfgzugiofru fguzfr.ugmzbgzu riufyngbhiyfgmixigzub
jyzufibg .xugzubgtizuwgixighmrfigdiug zdigf.g yizxgfmigyzub,gzubgw.,gf.
w.digiofiuf,gmzbgiomzqwfibgfmigw.rygc.xgfmrwgsixng x.ja

Tic.xignifgzungh..b mq pg.xgwlqrxxiygmzbgxqugz x.wwgfmigx.zb,g.xgfmi
wqugmzbgv.fgzt.sigfmigwmxqtg.zpw,ghmryigzyygfmigbihghzwg.u,gfm.qvmgfmi
czxdixwghzxuibgdigzvzruwfgrf,—Rgh.qybgzbsrwign.qgf.gb.gzyygn.qxgh.xpgrc
j.wwrtyighmryigfmigbihgrwg.u,—Rgtivzugf.gyisiygfmigxzupwg.cgmzqvmfn
hiibwgrugdngtizu-criybgzubgfmx.hgbqwfgqj.ugfmirxgmizbwagIzxyngrugfmi
d.xuruvgRgh.xpibgtzxic..fib,gbzttyruvgyrpigzgjyzwfr gzxfrwfgrugfmigbihn
zubg xqdtyruvgwzub,gtqfgyzfixgrugfmigbzngfmigwqugtyrwfixibgdngciifa
Fmixigfmigwqugyrvmfibgdigf.gm.igtizuw,gjz ruvgwy.hyngtz phzxbgzub
c.xhzxbg.sixgfmzfgniyy.hgvxzsiyyngqjyzub,gtifhiiugfmigy.uvgvxiiugx.hw,
crcfiiugx.bw,gfmig.uigiubgfixdruzfruvgrugzgwmxqtg.zpg .jwighmixigR
 .qybgxiwfgrugfmigwmzbi,gfmig.fmixgrugzgtyz ptixxngcriybghmixigfmi
vxiiugtixxriwgbiijiuibgfmirxgfrufwgtngfmigfrdigRgmzbgdzbigzu.fmixgt.qfa
Xid.sruvgfmighiibw,gjqffruvgcxiwmgw.rygzt.qfgfmigtizugwfidw,gzub
iu .qxzvruvgfmrwghiibghmr mgRgmzbgw.hu,gdzpruvgfmigniyy.hgw.rygiojxiww
rfwgwqddixgfm.qvmfgrugtizugyizsiwgzubgty.ww.dwgxzfmixgfmzugrugh.xdh..b
zubgjrjixgzubgdryyifgvxzww,gdzpruvgfmigizxfmgwzngtizuwgruwfizbg.c
vxzww,—fmrwghzwgdngbzryngh.xpagZwgRgmzbgyrffyigzrbgcx.dgm.xwiwg.x
 zffyi,g.xgmrxibgdiug.xgt.nw,g.xgrdjx.sibgrdjyidiufwg.cgmqwtzubxn,gR
hzwgdq mgwy.hix,gzubgti zdigdq mgd.xigrufrdzfighrfmgdngtizuwgfmzu
qwqzyagTqfgyzt.xg.cgfmigmzubw,gisiughmiugjqxwqibgf.gfmigsixvig.c
bxqbvixn,grwgjixmzjwguisixgfmigh.xwfgc.xdg.cgrbyiuiwwagRfgmzwgz
 .uwfzufgzubgrdjixrwmztyigd.xzy,gzubgf.gfmigw m.yzxgrfgnriybwgzg yzwwr 
xiwqyfagZgsixng_zvxr .yzgyzt.xr.wqw_ghzwgRgf.gfxzsiyyixwgt.qubghiwfhzxb
fmx.qvmgYru .yugzubgHznyzubgf.gu.t.bngpu.hwghmixi;gfmingwrffruvgzf
fmirxgizwigrugvrvw,ghrfmgiyt.hwg.ugpuiiw,gzubgxiruwgy..wiyngmzuvruvgru
ciwf..uw;gRgfmigm.di-wfznruv,gyzt.xr.qwguzfrsig.cgfmigw.ryagTqfgw..ugdn
m.diwfizbghzwg.qfg.cgfmirxgwrvmfgzubgfm.qvmfagRfghzwgfmig.uyng.jiugzub
 qyfrszfibgcriybgc.xgzgvxizfgbrwfzu ig.ugirfmixgwrbig.cgfmigx.zb;gw.
fmingdzbigfmigd.wfg.cgrf;gzubgw.difrdiwgfmigdzugrugfmigcriybgmizxbgd.xi
.cgfxzsiyyixw’gv.wwrjgzubg .ddiufgfmzughzwgdizufgc.xgmrwgizx:g“Tizuwgw.
yzfi!gjizwgw.gyzfi!”—c.xgRg .ufruqibgf.gjyzufghmiug.fmixwgmzbgtivqugf.
m.i,—fmigdrurwfixrzygmqwtzubdzugmzbgu.fgwqwji fibgrfag“ .xu,gdngt.n,
c.xgc.bbix;g .xugc.xgc.bbixa”g“B.iwgmig_yrsi_gfmixi?”gzwpwgfmigtyz p
t.uuifg.cgfmigvxzng .zf;gzubgfmigmzxb-cizfqxibgczxdixgxiruwgqjgmrw
vxzficqygb.ttrugf.grulqrxighmzfgn.qgzxigb.ruvghmixigmigwiiwgu.gdzuqxi
rugfmigcqxx.h,gzubgxi .ddiubwgzgyrffyig mrjgbrxf,g.xgzungyrffyighzwfi
wfqcc,g.xgrfgdzngtigzwmiwg.xgjyzwfixagTqfgmixighixigfh.gz xiwgzubgz
mzycg.cgcqxx.hw,gzubg.uyngzgm.igc.xg zxfgzubgfh.gmzubwgf.gbxzh
rf,—fmixigtiruvgzugzsixwr.ugf.g.fmixg zxfwgzubgm.xwiw,—zubg mrjgbrxf
czxgzhznagCiyy.h-fxzsiyyixwgzwgfmingxzffyibgtng .djzxibgrfgzy.qbghrfm
fmigcriybwghmr mgfmingmzbgjzwwib,gw.gfmzfgRg zdigf.gpu.hgm.hgRgwf..bgru
fmigzvxr qyfqxzygh.xybagFmrwghzwg.uigcriybgu.fgrugDxag .yidzu’wgxij.xfa
Zub,gtngfmighzn,ghm.giwfrdzfiwgfmigszyqig.cgfmig x.jghmr mguzfqxi
nriybwgrugfmigwfryyghrybixgcriybwgqurdjx.sibgtngdzu?gFmig x.jg.c
_Iuvyrwm_gmzngrwg zxicqyynghirvmib,gfmigd.rwfqxig zy qyzfib,gfmi
wryr zfiwgzubgfmigj.fzwm;gtqfgrugzyygbiyywgzubgj.ubgm.yiwgrugfmigh..bw
zubgjzwfqxiwgzubgwhzdjwgvx.hwgzgxr mgzubgszxr.qwg x.jg.uyngquxizjibgtn
dzuagDruighzw,gzwgrfghixi,gfmig .uui fruvgyrupgtifhiiughrybgzub
 qyfrszfibgcriybw;gzwgw.digwfzfiwgzxig rsryreib,gzubg.fmixw
mzyc- rsryreib,gzubg.fmixwgwzszvig.xgtzxtzx.qw,gw.gdngcriybghzw,gfm.qvm
u.fgrugzgtzbgwiuwi,gzgmzyc- qyfrszfibgcriybagFminghixigtizuwg miixcqyyn
xifqxuruvgf.gfmirxghrybgzubgjxrdrfrsigwfzfigfmzfgRg qyfrszfib,gzubgdn
m.igjyznibgfmig_XzuegbiwgSz miw_gc.xgfmida

Uizxgzfgmzub,gqj.ugfmigf.jd.wfgwjxzng.cgzgtrx m,gwruvwgfmi
tx.hu-fmxzwmix—.xgxibgdzsrw,gzwgw.digy.sigf.g zyygmrd—zyygfmigd.xuruv,
vyzbg.cgn.qxgw. rifn,gfmzfgh.qybgcrubg.qfgzu.fmixgczxdix’wgcriybgrc
n.qxwghixigu.fgmixiagHmryign.qgzxigjyzufruvgfmigwiib,gmig xriw,—“Bx.j
rf,gbx.jgrf,— .sixgrfgqj,g .sixgrfgqj,—jqyygrfgqj,gjqyygrfgqj,gjqyygrf
qja”gTqfgfmrwghzwgu.fg .xu,gzubgw.grfghzwgwzcigcx.dgwq mgiuidriwgzwgmia
N.qgdzngh.ubixghmzfgmrwgxrvdzx.yi,gmrwgzdzfiqxgJzvzururgjixc.xdzu iwg.u
.uigwfxruvg.xg.ugfhiufn,gmzsigf.gb.ghrfmgn.qxgjyzufruv,gzubgnifgjxicix
rfgf.gyiz mibgzwmiwg.xgjyzwfixagRfghzwgzg mizjgw.xfg.cgf.jgbxiwwruvgru
hmr mgRgmzbgiufrxigczrfma

ZwgRgbxihgzgwfryygcxiwmixgw.rygzt.qfgfmigx.hwghrfmgdngm.i,gRgbrwfqxtib
fmigzwmiwg.cgqu mx.ur yibguzfr.uwghm.grugjxrdiszygnizxwgyrsibgqubix
fmiwigmizsiuw,gzubgfmirxgwdzyygrdjyidiufwg.cghzxgzubgmqufruvghixi
tx.qvmfgf.gfmigyrvmfg.cgfmrwgd.bixugbznagFmingyzngdruvyibghrfmg.fmix
uzfqxzygwf.uiw,gw.dig.cghmr mgt.xigfmigdzxpwg.cgmzsruvgtiiugtqxuibgtn
Rubrzugcrxiw,gzubgw.digtngfmigwqu,gzubgzyw.gtrfwg.cgj.ffixngzubgvyzww
tx.qvmfgmrfmixgtngfmigxi iufg qyfrszf.xwg.cgfmigw.ryagHmiugdngm.i
frupyibgzvzruwfgfmigwf.uiw,gfmzfgdqwr gi m.ibgf.gfmigh..bwgzubgfmigwpn,
zubghzwgzugz  .djzurdiufgf.gdngyzt.xghmr mgnriybibgzugruwfzufgzub
rddizwqxztyig x.jagRfghzwgu.gy.uvixgtizuwgfmzfgRgm.ib,gu.xgRgfmzfgm.ib
tizuw;gzubgRgxididtixibghrfmgzwgdq mgjrfngzwgjxrbi,grcgRgxididtixibgzf
zyy,gdngz lqzrufzu iwghm.gmzbgv.uigf.gfmig rfngf.gzffiubgfmig.xzf.xr.wa
Fmigurvmf-mzhpg rx yibg.sixmizbgrugfmigwquungzcfixu..uw—c.xgRgw.difrdiw
dzbigzgbzng.cgrf—yrpigzgd.figrugfmigini,g.xgrugmizsiu’wgini,gczyyruv
cx.dgfrdigf.gfrdighrfmgzgwh..jgzubgzgw.qubgzwgrcgfmigmizsiuwghixigxiuf,
f.xugzfgyzwfgf.gsixngxzvwgzubgfzffixw,gzubgnifgzgwizdyiwwg .ji
xidzruib;gwdzyygrdjwgfmzfgcryygfmigzrxgzubgyzngfmirxgivvwg.ugfmigvx.qub
.ugtzxigwzubg.xgx. pwg.ugfmigf.jwg.cgmryyw,ghmixigcihgmzsigc.qubgfmid;
vxz icqygzubgwyiubixgyrpigxrjjyiwg zqvmfgqjgcx.dgfmigj.ub,gzwgyizsiw
zxigxzrwibgtngfmighrubgf.gcy.zfgrugfmigmizsiuw;gwq mgprubxibwmrjgrwgru
UzfqxiagFmigmzhpgrwgzixrzygtx.fmixg.cgfmighzsighmr mgmigwzrywg.sixgzub
wqxsinw,gfm.wigmrwgjixci fgzrx-rucyzfibghruvwgzuwhixruvgf.gfmi
iyidiufzygqucyibvibgjrur.uwg.cgfmigwizag.xgw.difrdiwgRghzf mibgzgjzrx
.cgmiu-mzhpwg rx yruvgmrvmgrugfmigwpn,gzyfixuzfiyngw.zxruvgzub
biw iubruv,gzjjx.z mruv,gzubgyizsruvg.uigzu.fmix,gzwgrcgfminghixigfmi
idt.brdiufg.cgdng.hugfm.qvmfwag.xgRghzwgzffxz fibgtngfmigjzwwzvig.c
hrybgjrvi.uwgcx.dgfmrwgh..bgf.gfmzf,ghrfmgzgwyrvmfglqrsixruvghruu.hruv
w.qubgzubg zxxrixgmzwfi;g.xgcx.dgqubixgzgx.ffiugwfqdjgdngm.igfqxuibgqj
zgwyqvvrwmgj.xfiuf.qwgzubg.qfyzubrwmgwj.ffibgwzyzdzubix,gzgfxz ig.c
IvnjfgzubgfmigUryi,gnifg.qxg .ufidj.xzxnagHmiugRgjzqwibgf.gyizug.ugdn
m.i,gfmiwigw.qubwgzubgwrvmfwgRgmizxbgzubgwzhgzunhmixigrugfmigx.h,gz
jzxfg.cgfmigruiomzqwfrtyigiufixfzrudiufghmr mgfmig .qufxng.ccixwa

.ugvzyzgbznwgfmigf.hugcrxiwgrfwgvxizfgvquw,ghmr mgi m.gyrpigj.jvquwgf.
fmiwigh..bw,gzubgw.dighzrcwg.cgdzxfrzygdqwr g.  zwr.uzyyngjiuifxzfi
fmqwgczxagF.gdi,gzhzngfmixigrugdngtizu-criybgzfgfmig.fmixgiubg.cgfmi
f.hu,gfmigtrvgvquwgw.qubibgzwgrcgzgjqcctzyygmzbgtqxwf;gzubghmiugfmixi
hzwgzgdryrfzxngfqxu.qfg.cghmr mgRghzwgrvu.xzuf,gRgmzsigw.difrdiwgmzbgz
szvqigwiuwigzyygfmigbzng.cgw.digw.xfg.cgrf mruvgzubgbrwizwigrugfmi
m.xre.u,gzwgrcgw.digixqjfr.ugh.qybgtxizpg.qfgfmixigw..u,girfmix
w zxyzfruzg.xg zupix-xzwm,gqufrygzfgyiuvfmgw.digd.xigczs.xztyigjqccg.c
hrub,gdzpruvgmzwfig.sixgfmigcriybwgzubgqjgfmigHznyzubgx.zb,gtx.qvmfgdi
ruc.xdzfr.ug.cgfmig“fxzruixwa”gRfgwiidibgtngfmigbrwfzufgmqdgzwgrc
w.dit.bn’wgtiiwgmzbgwhzxdib,gzubgfmzfgfmiguirvmt.xw,gz  .xbruvgf.
Srxvry’wgzbsr i,gtngzgczrufg_frufruuztqyqd_gqj.ugfmigd.wfgw.u.x.qwg.c
fmirxgb.diwfr gqfiuwryw,ghixigiubizs.xruvgf.g zyygfmidgb.hugruf.gfmi
mrsigzvzruagZubghmiugfmigw.qubgbribglqrfigzhzn,gzubgfmigmqdgmzbg izwib,
zubgfmigd.wfgczs.xztyigtxiieiwgf.ybgu.gfzyi,gRgpuihgfmzfgfmingmzbgv.f
fmigyzwfgbx.uig.cgfmidgzyygwzciyngruf.gfmigDrbbyiwiogmrsi,gzubgfmzfgu.h
fmirxgdrubwghixigtiufg.ugfmigm.uinghrfmghmr mgrfghzwgwdizxiba

Rgciyfgjx.qbgf.gpu.hgfmzfgfmigyrtixfriwg.cgDzwwz mqwiffwgzubg.cg.qx
czfmixyzubghixigrugwq mgwzcigpiijruv;gzubgzwgRgfqxuibgf.gdngm.iruv
zvzrugRghzwgcryyibghrfmgzugruiojxiwwrtyig .ucrbiu i,gzubgjqxwqibgdn
yzt.xg miixcqyynghrfmgzg zydgfxqwfgrugfmigcqfqxia

Hmiugfmixighixigwisixzygtzubwg.cgdqwr rzuw,grfgw.qubibgzwgrcgzyygfmi
sryyzvighzwgzgszwfgtiyy.hw,gzubgzyygfmigtqrybruvwgiojzubibgzub
 .yyzjwibgzyfixuzfiynghrfmgzgbruagTqfgw.difrdiwgrfghzwgzgxizyyngu.tyi
zubgruwjrxruvgwfxzrugfmzfgxiz mibgfmiwigh..bw,gzubgfmigfxqdjifgfmzf
wruvwg.cgczdi,gzubgRgciyfgzwgrcgRg .qybgwjrfgzgDior zughrfmgzgv..b
xiyrwm,—c.xghmngwm.qybghigzyhznwgwfzubgc.xgfxrcyiw?—zubgy..pibgx.qub
c.xgzgh..b mq pg.xgzgwpqupgf.gioix rwigdng mrszyxngqj.uagFmiwigdzxfrzy
wfxzruwgwiidibgzwgczxgzhzngzwgJzyiwfrui,gzubgxidrubibgdig.cgzgdzx mg.c
 xqwzbixwgrugfmigm.xre.u,ghrfmgzgwyrvmfgfzufrsngzubgfxidqy.qwgd.fr.ug.c
fmigiyd-fxiigf.jwghmr mg.sixmzuvgfmigsryyzviagFmrwghzwg.uig.cgfmi
_vxizf_gbznw;gfm.qvmgfmigwpngmzbgcx.dgdng yizxruvg.uyngfmigwzdi
isixyzwfruvyngvxizfgy..pgfmzfgrfghizxwgbzryn,gzubgRgwzhgu.gbrccixiu i
rugrfa

Rfghzwgzgwruvqyzxgiojixriu igfmzfgy.uvgz lqzrufzu ighmr mgRg qyfrszfib
hrfmgtizuw,ghmzfghrfmgjyzufruv,gzubgm.iruv,gzubgmzxsiwfruv,gzub
fmxiwmruv,gzubgjr pruvg.sixgzubgwiyyruvgfmid,—fmigyzwfghzwgfmigmzxbiwf
.cgzyy,—Rgdrvmfgzbbgizfruv,gc.xgRgbrbgfzwfiagRghzwgbifixdruibgf.gpu.h
tizuwagHmiugfminghixigvx.hruv,gRgqwibgf.gm.igcx.dgcrsig.’ y. pgrugfmi
d.xuruvgfryygu..u,gzubg .dd.uyngwjiufgfmigxiwfg.cgfmigbzngzt.qfg.fmix
zcczrxwag .uwrbixgfmigrufrdzfigzubg qxr.qwgz lqzrufzu ig.uigdzpiwghrfm
szxr.qwgprubwg.cghiibw,—rfghryygtizxgw.digrfixzfr.ugrugfmigz  .quf,gc.x
fmixighzwgu.gyrffyigrfixzfr.ugrugfmigyzt.x,—brwfqxtruvgfmirxgbiyr zfi
.xvzurezfr.uwgw.gxqfmyiwwyn,gzubgdzpruvgwq mgrusrbr.qwgbrwfru fr.uw
hrfmgmrwgm.i,gyisiyyruvghm.yigxzupwg.cg.uigwji riw,gzubgwibqy.qwyn
 qyfrszfruvgzu.fmixagFmzf’wgX.dzugh.xdh..b,—fmzf’wgjrvhiib,—fmzf’w
w.xxiy,—fmzf’wgjrjix-vxzww,—mzsigzfgmrd,g m.jgmrdgqj,gfqxugmrwgx..fw
qjhzxbgf.gfmigwqu,gb.u’fgyifgmrdgmzsigzgcrtxigrugfmigwmzbi,grcgn.qgb.
mi’yygfqxugmrdwiycgf’.fmixgwrbigqjgzubgtigzwgvxiiugzwgzgyiipgrugfh.
bznwagZgy.uvghzx,gu.fghrfmg xzuiw,gtqfghrfmghiibw,gfm.wigFx.kzuwghm.
mzbgwqugzubgxzrugzubgbihwg.ugfmirxgwrbiagBzryngfmigtizuwgwzhgdig .digf.
fmirxgxiw qigzxdibghrfmgzgm.i,gzubgfmrugfmigxzupwg.cgfmirxgiuidriw,
cryyruvgqjgfmigfxiu miwghrfmghiibngbizbagDzungzgyqwfng xiwf-hzsruv
Mi f.x,gfmzfgf.hixibgzghm.yigc..fgzt.sigmrwg x.hbruvg .dxzbiw,gciyy
tic.xigdnghizj.ugzubgx.yyibgrugfmigbqwfa

Fm.wigwqddixgbznwghmr mgw.dig.cgdng .ufidj.xzxriwgbis.fibgf.gfmigcrui
zxfwgrugT.wf.ug.xgX.di,gzubg.fmixwgf.g .ufidjyzfr.ugrugRubrz,gzub
.fmixwgf.gfxzbigrugY.ub.ug.xgUihgN.xp,gRgfmqw,ghrfmgfmig.fmixgczxdixw
.cgUihgIuvyzub,gbis.fibgf.gmqwtzubxnagU.fgfmzfgRghzufibgtizuwgf.gizf,
c.xgRgzdgtnguzfqxigzgJnfmzv.xizu,gw.gczxgzwgtizuwgzxig .u ixuib,
hmifmixgfmingdizugj.xxrbvig.xgs.fruv,gzubgio mzuvibgfmidgc.xgxr i;gtqf,
jix mzu i,gzwgw.digdqwfgh.xpgrugcriybwgrcg.uyngc.xgfmigwzpig.cgfx.jiw
zubgiojxiwwr.u,gf.gwixsigzgjzxztyi-dzpixg.uigbznagRfghzwg.ugfmighm.yigz
xzxigzdqwidiuf,ghmr m,g .ufruqibgf..gy.uv,gdrvmfgmzsigti .digz
brwwrjzfr.uagFm.qvmgRgvzsigfmidgu.gdzuqxi,gzubgbrbgu.fgm.igfmidgzyy
.u i,gRgm.ibgfmidgquqwqzyynghiyygzwgczxgzwgRghiuf,gzubghzwgjzrbgc.xgrf
rugfmigiub,g“fmixigtiruvgrugfxqfm,”gzwgIsiynugwznw,g“u.g .dj.wfg.x
yæfzfr.ughmzfw.isixg .djzxztyigf.gfmrwg .ufruqzygd.fr.u,gxijzwfruzfr.u,
zubgfqxuruvg.cgfmigd.qybghrfmgfmigwjzbia”g“Fmigizxfm,”gmigzbbw
iywihmixi,g“iwji rzyyngrcgcxiwm,gmzwgzg ixfzrugdzvuifrwdgrugrf,gtn
hmr mgrfgzffxz fwgfmigwzyf,gj.hix,g.xgsrxfqig( zyygrfgirfmix)ghmr m
vrsiwgrfgyrci,gzubgrwgfmigy.vr g.cgzyygfmigyzt.xgzubgwfrxghigpiijgzt.qf
rf,gf.gwqwfzrugqw;gzyygbquvruvwgzubg.fmixgw.xbrbgfidjixruvwgtiruvgtqf
fmigsr zxwgwq  ibzui.qwgf.gfmrwgrdjx.sidiufa”gD.xi.six,gfmrwgtiruvg.ui
.cgfm.wig“h.xu-.qfgzubgiomzqwfibgyzngcriybwghmr mgiuk.ngfmirxgwzttzfm,”
mzbgjix mzu i,gzwgWrxgPiuiydgBrvtngfmrupwgyrpiyn,gzffxz fibg“srfzy
wjrxrfw”gcx.dgfmigzrxagRgmzxsiwfibgfhiysigtqwmiywg.cgtizuwa

Tqfgf.gtigd.xigjzxfr qyzx,gc.xgrfgrwg .djyzruibgfmzfgDxag .yidzugmzw
xij.xfibg mricyngfmigiojiuwrsigiojixrdiufwg.cgviufyidiugczxdixw,gdn
.qfv.iwghixi,—


ggggC.xgzgm.i,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$g0a54
ggggJy.qvmruv,gmzxx.hruv,gzubgcqxx.hruv,aaaaaaaaagg7a50ggF..gdq ma
ggggTizuwgc.xgwiib,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg3a12½
ggggJ.fzf.iwgc.xgwiib,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg1a33
ggggJizwgc.xgwiib,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a40
ggggFqxurjgwiib,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a06
ggggHmrfigyruigc.xg x.hgciu i,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a02
ggggM.xwig qyfrszf.xgzubgt.ngfmxiigm.qxw,aaaaaaaagg1a00
ggggM.xwigzubg zxfgf.gvifg x.j,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagg0a75
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg————
ggggggggRugzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$14a72½

Dngru .dighzwg(jzfxidgczdryrzwgsiubz id,gu.ugidz idgiwwig.j.xfif),
cx.d

ggggUruigtqwmiywgzubgfhiysiglqzxfwg.cgtizuwgw.yb,ag$16a94
ggggCrsigggg"ggggyzxvigj.fzf.iw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag2a50
ggggUruigggg"ggggwdzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag2a25
ggggVxzww,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag1a00
ggggWfzypw,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag0a75
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg————
ggggggggRugzyy,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaag$23a44
ggggYizsruvgzgji qurzxngjx.crf,
ggggggggzwgRgmzsigiywihmixigwzrb,g.caaaaaaaaaaaaaagg$8a71½a

Fmrwgrwgfmigxiwqyfg.cgdngiojixriu igrugxzrwruvgtizuwagJyzufgfmig .dd.u
wdzyyghmrfigtqwmgtizugzt.qfgfmigcrxwfg.cgKqui,grugx.hwgfmxiigciifgtn
irvmfiiugru miwgzjzxf,gtiruvg zxicqygf.gwiyi fgcxiwmgx.qubgzubgqudroib
wiibagCrxwfgy..pg.qfgc.xgh.xdw,gzubgwqjjyngsz zu riwgtngjyzufruvgzuiha
Fmiugy..pg.qfgc.xgh..b mq pw,grcgrfgrwgzugioj.wibgjyz i,gc.xgfminghryy
urttyig.ccgfmigizxyriwfgfiubixgyizsiwgzyd.wfg yizugzwgfmingv.;gzub
zvzru,ghmiugfmign.quvgfiubxrywgdzpigfmirxgzjjizxzu i,gfmingmzsigu.fr i
.cgrf,gzubghryygwmizxgfmidg.ccghrfmgt.fmgtqbwgzubgn.quvgj.bw,gwrffruv
ixi fgyrpigzgwlqrxxiyagTqfgzt.sigzyygmzxsiwfgzwgizxyngzwgj.wwrtyi,grc
n.qgh.qybgiw zjigcx.wfwgzubgmzsigzgczrxgzubgwzyztyig x.j;gn.qgdzngwzsi
dq mgy.wwgtngfmrwgdizuwa

Fmrwgcqxfmixgiojixriu igzyw.gRgvzruibagRgwzrbgf.gdnwiyc,gRghryygu.f
jyzufgtizuwgzubg .xughrfmgw.gdq mgrubqwfxngzu.fmixgwqddix,gtqfgwq m
wiibw,grcgfmigwiibgrwgu.fgy.wf,gzwgwru ixrfn,gfxqfm,gwrdjyr rfn,gczrfm,
ruu. iu i,gzubgfmigyrpi,gzubgwiigrcgfminghryygu.fgvx.hgrugfmrwgw.ry,
isiughrfmgyiwwgf.rygzubgdzuqxzu i,gzubgwqwfzrugdi,gc.xgwqxiyngrfgmzw
u.fgtiiugiomzqwfibgc.xgfmiwig x.jwagZyzw!gRgwzrbgfmrwgf.gdnwiyc;gtqf
u.hgzu.fmixgwqddixgrwgv.ui,gzubgzu.fmix,gzubgzu.fmix,gzubgRgzdg.tyrvib
f.gwzngf.gn.q,gXizbix,gfmzfgfmigwiibwghmr mgRgjyzufib,grcgrubiibgfmin
_hixi_gfmigwiibwg.cgfm.wigsrxfqiw,ghixigh.xdizfiug.xgmzbgy.wfgfmirx
srfzyrfn,gzubgw.gbrbgu.fg .digqjag .dd.uyngdiughryyg.uyngtigtxzsigzw
fmirxgczfmixwghixigtxzsi,g.xgfrdrbagFmrwgviuixzfr.ugrwgsixngwqxigf.
jyzufg .xugzubgtizuwgiz mguihgnizxgjxi rwiyngzwgfmigRubrzuwgbrb
 iufqxriwgzv.gzubgfzqvmfgfmigcrxwfgwiffyixwgf.gb.,gzwgrcgfmixighixigz
czfigrugrfagRgwzhgzug.ybgdzugfmig.fmixgbzn,gf.gdngzwf.urwmdiuf,gdzpruv
fmigm.yiwghrfmgzgm.igc.xgfmigwisiufrifmgfrdigzfgyizwf,gzubgu.fgc.x
mrdwiycgf.gyrigb.hugru!gTqfghmngwm.qybgu.fgfmigUihgIuvyzubixgfxnguih
zbsiufqxiw,gzubgu.fgyzngw.gdq mgwfxiwwg.ugmrwgvxzru,gmrwgj.fzf.gzub
vxzwwg x.j,gzubgmrwg.x mzxbw,—xzrwig.fmixg x.jwgfmzugfmiwi?gHmng .u ixu
.qxwiysiwgw.gdq mgzt.qfg.qxgtizuwgc.xgwiib,gzubgu.fgtig .u ixuibgzfgzyy
zt.qfgzguihgviuixzfr.ug.cgdiu?gHigwm.qybgxizyyngtigcibgzubg miixibgrc
hmiughigdifgzgdzughighixigwqxigf.gwiigfmzfgw.dig.cgfmiglqzyrfriwghmr m
Rgmzsiguzdib,ghmr mghigzyygjxreigd.xigfmzugfm.wig.fmixgjx.bq fr.uw,gtqf
hmr mgzxigc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgtx.zb zwfgzubgcy.zfruvgrugfmigzrx,gmzb
fzpiugx..fgzubgvx.hugrugmrdagMixig .diwgwq mgzgwqtfryigzubgruiccztyi
lqzyrfn,gc.xgruwfzu i,gzwgfxqfmg.xgkqwfr i,gfm.qvmgfmigwyrvmfiwfgzd.quf
.xguihgszxrifng.cgrf,gzy.uvgfmigx.zbag.qxgzdtzwwzb.xwgwm.qybgti
ruwfxq fibgf.gwiubgm.digwq mgwiibwgzwgfmiwi,gzubg .uvxiwwgmiyjgf.
brwfxrtqfigfmidg.sixgzyygfmigyzubagHigwm.qybguisixgwfzubgqj.ug ixid.un
hrfmgwru ixrfnagHigwm.qybguisixg mizfgzubgruwqyfgzubgtzurwmg.uigzu.fmix
tng.qxgdizuuiww,grcgfmixighixigjxiwiufgfmigpixuiyg.cgh.xfmgzub
cxriubyruiwwagHigwm.qybgu.fgdiifgfmqwgrugmzwfiagD.wfgdiugRgb.gu.fgdiif
zfgzyy,gc.xgfmingwiidgu.fgf.gmzsigfrdi;gfmingzxigtqwngzt.qfgfmirx
tizuwagHigh.qybgu.fgbizyghrfmgzgdzugfmqwgjy.bbruvgisix,gyizuruvg.ugz
m.ig.xgzgwjzbigzwgzgwfzccgtifhiiugmrwgh.xp,gu.fgzwgzgdqwmx..d,gtqf
jzxfrzyyngxrwiug.qfg.cgfmigizxfm,gw.difmruvgd.xigfmzugixi f,gyrpi
whzyy.hwgzyrvmfibgzubghzypruvg.ugfmigvx.qub:—

ggggg“Zubgzwgmigwjzpi,gmrwghruvwgh.qybgu.hgzubgfmiu
gggggWjxizb,gzwgmigdizufgf.gcyn,gfmiug y.wigzvzru,”

w.gfmzfghigwm.qybgwqwji fgfmzfghigdrvmfgtig .usixwruvghrfmgzugzuviya
Txizbgdzngu.fgzyhznwgu.qxrwmgqw;gtqfgrfgzyhznwgb.iwgqwgv..b,grfgisiu
fzpiwgwfrccuiwwg.qfg.cg.qxgk.rufw,gzubgdzpiwgqwgwqjjyigzubgtq.nzuf,
hmiughigpuihgu.fghmzfgzryibgqw,gf.gxi .vureigzungviuix.wrfngrugdzug.x
Uzfqxi,gf.gwmzxigzungqudroibgzubgmix.r gk.na

Zu riufgj.ifxngzubgdnfm.y.vngwqvviwf,gzfgyizwf,gfmzfgmqwtzubxnghzwg.u i
zgwz xibgzxf;gtqfgrfgrwgjqxwqibghrfmgrxxisixiufgmzwfigzubgmiibyiwwuiww
tngqw,g.qxg.tki fgtiruvgf.gmzsigyzxvigczxdwgzubgyzxvig x.jwgdixiynagHi
mzsigu.gciwfrszy,gu.xgjx. iwwr.u,gu.xg ixid.un,gu.fgio ijfruvg.qx
 zffyi-wm.hwgzubgw.g zyyibgFmzupwvrsruvw,gtnghmr mgfmigczxdixgiojxiwwiw
zgwiuwig.cgfmigwz xibuiwwg.cgmrwg zyyruv,g.xgrwgxidrubibg.cgrfwgwz xib
.xrvruagRfgrwgfmigjxidrqdgzubgfmigcizwfghmr mgfidjfgmrdagMigwz xrcr iw
u.fgf.g ixiwgzubgfmigFixxiwfxrzygK.si,gtqfgf.gfmigrucixuzygJyqfqw
xzfmixagTngzszxr igzubgwiycrwmuiww,gzubgzgvx.siyyruvgmztrf,gcx.dghmr m
u.uig.cgqwgrwgcxii,g.cgxivzxbruvgfmigw.rygzwgjx.jixfn,g.xgfmigdizuwg.c
z lqrxruvgjx.jixfng mricyn,gfmigyzubw zjigrwgbic.xdib,gmqwtzubxngrw
bivxzbibghrfmgqw,gzubgfmigczxdixgyizbwgfmigdizuiwfg.cgyrsiwagMigpu.hw
Uzfqxigtqfgzwgzgx.ttixag zf.gwznwgfmzfgfmigjx.crfwg.cgzvxr qyfqxigzxi
jzxfr qyzxyngjr.qwg.xgkqwf,g(_dzordilqigjrqwglqæwfqw_),gzubgz  .xbruv
f.gSzxx.gfmig.ybgX.dzuwg“ zyyibgfmigwzdigizxfmgD.fmixgzubg ixiw,gzub
fm.qvmfgfmzfgfminghm.g qyfrszfibgrfgyibgzgjr.qwgzubgqwicqygyrci,gzub
fmzfgfmingzy.uighixigyicfg.cgfmigxz ig.cgPruvgWzfqxua”

Higzxigh.ufgf.gc.xvifgfmzfgfmigwqugy..pwg.ug.qxg qyfrszfibgcriybwgzub
.ugfmigjxzrxriwgzubgc.xiwfwghrfm.qfgbrwfru fr.uagFmingzyygxicyi fgzub
ztw.xtgmrwgxznwgzyrpi,gzubgfmigc.xdixgdzpigtqfgzgwdzyygjzxfg.cgfmi
vy.xr.qwgjr fqxighmr mgmigtim.ybwgrugmrwgbzryng .qxwiagRugmrwgsrihgfmi
izxfmgrwgzyygilqzyyng qyfrszfibgyrpigzgvzxbiuagFmixic.xighigwm.qyb
xi irsigfmigtiuicrfg.cgmrwgyrvmfgzubgmizfghrfmgzg .xxiwj.ubruvgfxqwf
zubgdzvuzurdrfnagHmzfgfm.qvmgRgszyqigfmigwiibg.cgfmiwigtizuw,gzub
mzxsiwfgfmzfgrugfmigczyyg.cgfmignizx?gFmrwgtx.zbgcriybghmr mgRgmzsi
y..pibgzfgw.gy.uvgy..pwgu.fgf.gdigzwgfmigjxru rjzyg qyfrszf.x,gtqfgzhzn
cx.dgdigf.grucyqiu iwgd.xigviurzygf.grf,ghmr mghzfixgzubgdzpigrfgvxiiua
Fmiwigtizuwgmzsigxiwqyfwghmr mgzxigu.fgmzxsiwfibgtngdiagB.gfmingu.f
vx.hgc.xgh..b mq pwgjzxfyn?gFmigizxg.cghmizfg(rugYzfrug_wjr z_,
.tw.yifiyng_wji z_,gcx.dg_wji_,gm.ji)gwm.qybgu.fgtigfmig.uyngm.jig.c
fmigmqwtzubdzu;grfwgpixuiyg.xgvxzrug(_vxzuqd_gcx.dg_vixiub._,gtizxruv)
rwgu.fgzyygfmzfgrfgtizxwagM.h,gfmiu,g zug.qxgmzxsiwfgczry?gWmzyygRgu.f
xik.r igzyw.gzfgfmigztqubzu ig.cgfmighiibwghm.wigwiibwgzxigfmigvxzuzxn
.cgfmigtrxbw?gRfgdzffixwgyrffyig .djzxzfrsiynghmifmixgfmigcriybwgcryy
fmigczxdix’wgtzxuwagFmigfxqigmqwtzubdzughryyg izwigcx.dgzuorifn,gzwgfmi
wlqrxxiywgdzurciwfgu.g .u ixughmifmixgfmigh..bwghryygtizxg miwfuqfw
fmrwgnizxg.xgu.f,gzubgcrurwmgmrwgyzt.xghrfmgisixngbzn,gxiyrulqrwmruv
zyyg yzrdgf.gfmigjx.bq ig.cgmrwgcriybw,gzubgwz xrcr ruvgrugmrwgdrubgu.f
.uyngmrwgcrxwfgtqfgmrwgyzwfgcxqrfwgzyw.a


FmigSryyzvi

Zcfixgm.iruv,g.xgjixmzjwgxizbruvgzubghxrfruv,grugfmigc.xiu..u,gR
qwqzyyngtzfmibgzvzrugrugfmigj.ub,gwhrddruvgz x.wwg.uig.cgrfwg .siwgc.x
zgwfruf,gzubghzwmibgfmigbqwfg.cgyzt.xgcx.dgdngjixw.u,g.xgwd..fmibg.qf
fmigyzwfghxrupyighmr mgwfqbngmzbgdzbi,gzubgc.xgfmigzcfixu..ughzw
ztw.yqfiyngcxiiagIsixngbzng.xgfh.gRgwfx.yyibgf.gfmigsryyzvigf.gmizx
w.dig.cgfmigv.wwrjghmr mgrwgru iwwzufyngv.ruvg.ugfmixi,g rx qyzfruv
irfmixgcx.dgd.qfmgf.gd.qfm,g.xgcx.dguihwjzjixgf.guihwjzjix,gzubghmr m,
fzpiugrugm.dœ.jzfmr gb.wiw,ghzwgxizyyngzwgxicxiwmruvgrugrfwghzngzwgfmi
xqwfyig.cgyizsiwgzubgfmigjiijruvg.cgcx.vwagZwgRghzypibgrugfmigh..bwgf.
wiigfmigtrxbwgzubgwlqrxxiyw,gw.gRghzypibgrugfmigsryyzvigf.gwiigfmigdiu
zubgt.nw;gruwfizbg.cgfmighrubgzd.uvgfmigjruiwgRgmizxbgfmig zxfwgxzffyia
Rug.uigbrxi fr.ugcx.dgdngm.qwigfmixighzwgzg .y.ung.cgdqwpxzfwgrugfmi
xrsixgdizb.hw;gqubixgfmigvx.sig.cgiydwgzubgtqff.uh..bwgrugfmig.fmix
m.xre.ughzwgzgsryyzvig.cgtqwngdiu,gzwg qxr.qwgf.gdigzwgrcgfmingmzbgtiiu
jxzrxrigb.vw,giz mgwrffruvgzfgfmigd.qfmg.cgrfwgtqxx.h,g.xgxquuruvg.six
f.gzguirvmt.x’wgf.gv.wwrjagRghiufgfmixigcxilqiufyngf.g.twixsigfmirx
mztrfwagFmigsryyzvigzjjizxibgf.gdigzgvxizfguihwgx..d;gzubg.ug.uigwrbi,
f.gwqjj.xfgrf,gzwg.u igzfgXibbruvg&g .djzun’wg.ugWfzfigWfxiif,gfmin
pijfguqfwgzubgxzrwruw,g.xgwzyfgzubgdizygzubg.fmixgvx. ixriwagW.digmzsi
wq mgzgszwfgzjjifrfigc.xgfmigc.xdixg .dd.brfn,gfmzfgrw,gfmiguihw,gzub
wq mgw.qubgbrviwfrsig.xvzuw,gfmzfgfming zugwrfgc.xisixgrugjqtyr 
zsiuqiwghrfm.qfgwfrxxruv,gzubgyifgrfgwrddixgzubghmrwjixgfmx.qvmgfmid
yrpigfmigIfiwrzughrubw,g.xgzwgrcgrumzyruvgifmix,grfg.uyngjx.bq ruv
uqdtuiwwgzubgruwiuwrtryrfngf.gjzru,—.fmixhrwigrfgh.qybg.cfiugtigjzrucqy
f.gmizx,—hrfm.qfgzcci fruvgfmig .uw r.qwuiwwagRgmzxbyngisixgczryib,
hmiugRgxzdtyibgfmx.qvmgfmigsryyzvi,gf.gwiigzgx.hg.cgwq mgh.xfmriw,
irfmixgwrffruvg.ugzgyzbbixgwquuruvgfmidwiysiw,ghrfmgfmirxgt.briw
ru yruibgc.xhzxbgzubgfmirxginiwgvyzu ruvgzy.uvgfmigyruigfmrwghzngzub
fmzf,gcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,ghrfmgzgs.yqjfq.qwgiojxiwwr.u,g.xgiywigyizuruv
zvzruwfgzgtzxughrfmgfmirxgmzubwgrugfmirxgj. pifw,gyrpig zxnzfrbiw,gzw
rcgf.gjx.jgrfgqjagFmin,gtiruvg .dd.uyng.qfg.cgb..xw,gmizxbghmzfisixghzw
rugfmighrubagFmiwigzxigfmig .zxwiwfgdryyw,grughmr mgzyygv.wwrjgrwgcrxwf
xqbiyngbrviwfibg.xg xz pibgqjgtic.xigrfgrwgidjfribgruf.gcruixgzubgd.xi
biyr zfigm.jjixwghrfmrugb..xwagRg.twixsibgfmzfgfmigsrfzywg.cgfmi
sryyzvighixigfmigvx. ixn,gfmigtzx-x..d,gfmigj.wf-.ccr i,gzubgfmigtzup;
zub,gzwgzgui iwwzxngjzxfg.cgfmigdz mruixn,gfmingpijfgzgtiyy,gzgtrvgvqu,
zubgzgcrxi-iuvrui,gzfg .usiuriufgjyz iw;gzubgfmigm.qwiwghixigw.
zxxzuvibgzwgf.gdzpigfmigd.wfg.cgdzuprub,grugyzuiwgzubgcx.ufruvg.ui
zu.fmix,gw.gfmzfgisixngfxzsiyyixgmzbgf.gxqugfmigvzufyif,gzubgisixngdzu,
h.dzu,gzubg mrybgdrvmfgvifgzgyr pgzfgmrdag.cg .qxwi,gfm.wighm.ghixi
wfzfr.uibguizxiwfgf.gfmigmizbg.cgfmigyrui,ghmixigfming .qybgd.wfgwii
zubgtigwiiu,gzubgmzsigfmigcrxwfgty.hgzfgmrd,gjzrbgfmigmrvmiwfgjxr iw
c.xgfmirxgjyz iw;gzubgfmigcihgwfxzvvyruvgrumztrfzufwgrugfmig.qfwprxfw,
hmixigy.uvgvzjwgrugfmigyruigtivzugf.g.  qx,gzubgfmigfxzsiyyixg .qybgvif
.sixghzyywg.xgfqxugzwrbigruf.g .hgjzfmw,gzubgw.giw zji,gjzrbgzgsixn
wyrvmfgvx.qubg.xghrub.hgfzoagWrvuwghixigmquvg.qfg.ugzyygwrbiwgf.gzyyqxi
mrd;gw.digf.g zf mgmrdgtngfmigzjjifrfi,gzwgfmigfzsixugzubgsr fqzyyruv
 iyyzx;gw.digtngfmigczu n,gzwgfmigbxngv..bwgwf.xigzubgfmigkihiyyix’w;
zubg.fmixwgtngfmigmzrxg.xgfmigciifg.xgfmigwprxfw,gzwgfmigtzxtix,gfmi
wm.idzpix,g.xgfmigfzry.xagTiwrbiw,gfmixighzwgzgwfryygd.xigfixxrtyi
wfzubruvgrusrfzfr.ugf.g zyygzfgisixng.uig.cgfmiwigm.qwiw,gzubg .djzun
ioji fibgzt.qfgfmiwigfrdiwagC.xgfmigd.wfgjzxfgRgiw zjibgh.ubixcqyyn
cx.dgfmiwigbzuvixw,girfmixgtngjx. iibruvgzfg.u igt.ybyngzubghrfm.qf
biyrtixzfr.ugf.gfmigv.zy,gzwgrwgxi .ddiubibgf.gfm.wighm.gxqugfmi
vzufyif,g.xgtngpiijruvgdngfm.qvmfwg.ugmrvmgfmruvw,gyrpig.xjmiqw,ghm.,
“y.qbyngwruvruvgfmigjxzrwiwg.cgfmigv.bwgf.gmrwgynxi,gbx.huibgfmigs.r iw
.cgfmigWrxiuw,gzubgpijfg.qfg.cgbzuvixa”gW.difrdiwgRgt.yfibgwqbbiuyn,
zubgu.t.bng .qybgfiyygdnghmixizt.qfw,gc.xgRgbrbgu.fgwfzubgdq mgzt.qf
vxz icqyuiww,gzubguisixgmiwrfzfibgzfgzgvzjgrugzgciu iagRghzwgisiu
z  qwf.dibgf.gdzpigzugrxxqjfr.ugruf.gw.digm.qwiw,ghmixigRghzwghiyy
iufixfzruib,gzubgzcfixgyizxuruvgfmigpixuiywgzubgsixngyzwfgwrisi-cqyg.c
uihw,ghmzfgmzbgwqtwrbib,gfmigjx.wji fwg.cghzxgzubgjiz i,gzubghmifmix
fmigh.xybghzwgyrpiyngf.gm.ybgf.vifmixgdq mgy.uvix,gRghzwgyifg.qf
fmx.qvmgfmigxizxgzsiuqiw,gzubgw.giw zjibgf.gfmigh..bwgzvzrua

Rfghzwgsixngjyizwzuf,ghmiugRgwfznibgyzfigrugf.hu,gf.gyzqu mgdnwiycgruf.
fmigurvmf,giwji rzyyngrcgrfghzwgbzxpgzubgfidjiwfq.qw,gzubgwifgwzrygcx.d
w.digtxrvmfgsryyzvigjzxy.xg.xgyi fqxigx..d,ghrfmgzgtzvg.cgxnig.xgRubrzu
dizygqj.ugdngwm.qybix,gc.xgdngwuqvgmzxt.xgrugfmigh..bw,gmzsruvgdzbigzyy
frvmfghrfm.qfgzubghrfmbxzhugqubixgmzf miwghrfmgzgdixxng xihg.c
fm.qvmfw,gyizsruvg.uyngdng.qfixgdzugzfgfmigmiyd,g.xgisiugfnruvgqjgfmi
miydghmiugrfghzwgjyzrugwzryruvagRgmzbgdzungzgviurzygfm.qvmfgtngfmi
 ztrugcrxig“zwgRgwzryiba”gRghzwguisixg zwfgzhzngu.xgbrwfxiwwibgrugzun
hizfmix,gfm.qvmgRgiu .qufixibgw.digwisixigwf.xdwagRfgrwgbzxpixgrugfmi
h..bw,gisiugrug .dd.ugurvmfw,gfmzugd.wfgwqjj.wiagRgcxilqiufyngmzbgf.
y..pgqjgzfgfmig.jiuruvgtifhiiugfmigfxiiwgzt.sigfmigjzfmgrug.xbixgf.
yizxugdngx.qfi,gzub,ghmixigfmixighzwgu.g zxf-jzfm,gf.gciiyghrfmgdngciif
fmigczrufgfxz pghmr mgRgmzbgh.xu,g.xgwfiixgtngfmigpu.hugxiyzfr.ug.c
jzxfr qyzxgfxiiwghmr mgRgciyfghrfmgdngmzubw,gjzwwruvgtifhiiugfh.gjruiw
c.xgruwfzu i,gu.fgd.xigfmzugirvmfiiugru miwgzjzxf,grugfmigdrbwfg.cgfmi
h..bw,gruszxrztyn,grugfmigbzxpiwfgurvmfagW.difrdiw,gzcfixg .druvgm.di
fmqwgyzfigrugzgbzxpgzubgdqvvngurvmf,ghmiugdngciifgciyfgfmigjzfmghmr m
dnginiwg .qybgu.fgwii,gbxizdruvgzubgztwiuf-drubibgzyygfmighzn,gqufrygR
hzwgzx.qwibgtngmzsruvgf.gxzrwigdngmzubgf.gyrcfgfmigyzf m,gRgmzsigu.f
tiiugztyigf.gxi zyygzgwruvyigwfijg.cgdnghzyp,gzubgRgmzsigfm.qvmfgfmzf
jixmzjwgdngt.bngh.qybgcrubgrfwghzngm.digrcgrfwgdzwfixgwm.qybgc.xwzpi
rf,gzwgfmigmzubgcrubwgrfwghzngf.gfmigd.qfmghrfm.qfgzwwrwfzu iagWisixzy
frdiw,ghmiugzgsrwrf.xg mzu ibgf.gwfzngruf.gisiuruv,gzubgrfgjx.sibgz
bzxpgurvmf,gRghzwg.tyrvibgf.g .ubq fgmrdgf.gfmig zxf-jzfmgrugfmigxizx
.cgfmigm.qwi,gzubgfmiugj.rufg.qfgf.gmrdgfmigbrxi fr.ugmighzwgf.gjqxwqi,
zubgrugpiijruvghmr mgmighzwgf.gtigvqrbibgxzfmixgtngmrwgciifgfmzugmrw
iniwag.uigsixngbzxpgurvmfgRgbrxi fibgfmqwg.ugfmirxghzngfh.gn.quvgdiu
hm.gmzbgtiiugcrwmruvgrugfmigj.ubagFmingyrsibgzt.qfgzgdryig.ccgfmx.qvm
fmigh..bw,gzubghixiglqrfigqwibgf.gfmigx.qfiagZgbzng.xgfh.gzcfixg.uig.c
fmidgf.ybgdigfmzfgfminghzubixibgzt.qfgfmigvxizfixgjzxfg.cgfmigurvmf,
 y.wigtngfmirxg.hugjxidrwiw,gzubgbrbgu.fgvifgm.digfryygf.hzxbgd.xuruv,
tnghmr mgfrdi,gzwgfmixigmzbgtiiugwisixzygmizsngwm.hixwgrugfmigdizu
hmryi,gzubgfmigyizsiwghixigsixnghif,gfminghixigbxiu mibgf.gfmirxgwpruwa
Rgmzsigmizxbg.cgdzungv.ruvgzwfxzngisiugrugfmigsryyzvigwfxiifw,ghmiugfmi
bzxpuiwwghzwgw.gfmr pgfmzfgn.qg .qybg qfgrfghrfmgzgpurci,gzwgfmigwznruv
rwagW.dighm.gyrsigrugfmig.qfwprxfw,gmzsruvg .digf.gf.hugz-wm.jjruvgru
fmirxghzv.uw,gmzsigtiiug.tyrvibgf.gjqfgqjgc.xgfmigurvmf;gzubgviufyidiu
zubgyzbriwgdzpruvgzg zyygmzsigv.uigmzycgzgdryig.qfg.cgfmirxghzn,
ciiyruvgfmigwrbihzypg.uynghrfmgfmirxgciif,gzubgu.fgpu.hruvghmiugfmin
fqxuibagRfgrwgzgwqxjxrwruvgzubgdid.xztyi,gzwghiyygzwgszyqztyi
iojixriu i,gf.gtigy.wfgrugfmigh..bwgzungfrdiag.cfiugrugzgwu.hgwf.xd,
isiugtngbzn,g.uighryyg .dig.qfgqj.ugzghiyy-pu.hugx.zbgzubgnifgcrubgrf
rdj.wwrtyigf.gfiyyghmr mghzngyizbwgf.gfmigsryyzviagFm.qvmgmigpu.hwgfmzf
migmzwgfxzsiyyibgrfgzgfm.qwzubgfrdiw,gmig zuu.fgxi .vureigzgcizfqxigru
rf,gtqfgrfgrwgzwgwfxzuvigf.gmrdgzwgrcgrfghixigzgx.zbgrugWrtixrzagTn
urvmf,g.cg .qxwi,gfmigjixjyiorfngrwgrucrurfiyngvxizfixagRug.qxgd.wf
fxrsrzyghzypw,ghigzxig .uwfzufyn,gfm.qvmgqu .uw r.qwyn,gwfiixruvgyrpi
jry.fwgtng ixfzrughiyy-pu.hugtiz .uwgzubgmizbyzubw,gzubgrcghigv.gtin.ub
.qxgqwqzyg .qxwighigwfryyg zxxngrug.qxgdrubwgfmigtizxruvg.cgw.di
uirvmt.xruvg zji;gzubgu.fgfryyghigzxig .djyifiyngy.wf,g.xgfqxuib
x.qub,—c.xgzgdzuguiibwg.uyngf.gtigfqxuibgx.qubg.u ighrfmgmrwginiwgwmqf
rugfmrwgh.xybgf.gtigy.wf,—b.ghigzjjxi rzfigfmigszwfuiwwgzubgwfxzuviuiww
.cgUzfqxiagIsixngdzugmzwgf.gyizxugfmigj.rufwg.cg .djzwwgzvzrugzwg.cfiu
zwgmigzhzpiw,ghmifmixgcx.dgwyiijg.xgzungztwfxz fr.uagU.fgfryyghigzxi
y.wf,grug.fmixgh.xbwgu.fgfryyghigmzsigy.wfgfmigh.xyb,gb.ghigtivrugf.
crubg.qxwiysiw,gzubgxizyreighmixighigzxigzubgfmigrucrurfigiofiufg.cg.qx
xiyzfr.uwa

.uigzcfixu..u,guizxgfmigiubg.cgfmigcrxwfgwqddix,ghmiugRghiufgf.gfmi
sryyzvigf.gvifgzgwm.igcx.dgfmig .ttyix’w,gRghzwgwireibgzubgjqfgruf.
kzry,gti zqwi,gzwgRgmzsigiywihmixigxiyzfib,gRgbrbgu.fgjzngzgfzogf.,g.x
xi .vureigfmigzqfm.xrfng.c,gfmigwfzfighmr mgtqnwgzubgwiyywgdiu,gh.diu,
zubg mrybxiu,gyrpig zffyigzfgfmigb..xg.cgrfwgwiuzfi-m.qwiagRgmzbgv.ui
b.hugf.gfmigh..bwgc.xg.fmixgjqxj.wiwagTqf,ghmixisixgzgdzugv.iw,gdiu
hryygjqxwqigzubgjzhgmrdghrfmgfmirxgbrxfngruwfrfqfr.uw,gzub,grcgfmin
 zu,g .uwfxzrugmrdgf.gtiy.uvgf.gfmirxgbiwjixzfig.bb-ciyy.hgw. rifnagRf
rwgfxqi,gRgdrvmfgmzsigxiwrwfibgc.x rtynghrfmgd.xig.xgyiwwgicci f,gdrvmf
mzsigxqug“zd.p”gzvzruwfgw. rifn;gtqfgRgjxicixxibgfmzfgw. rifngwm.qyb
xqug“zd.p”gzvzruwfgdi,grfgtiruvgfmigbiwjixzfigjzxfnagM.hisix,gRghzw
xiyizwibgfmiguiofgbzn,g.tfzruibgdngdiubibgwm.i,gzubgxifqxuibgf.gfmi
h..bwgrugwizw.ugf.gvifgdngbruuixg.cgmq pyitixxriwg.ugCzrx-MzsiugMryyagR
hzwguisixgd.yiwfibgtngzungjixw.ugtqfgfm.wighm.gxijxiwiufibgfmigwfzfiagR
mzbgu.gy. pgu.xgt.yfgtqfgc.xgfmigbiwpghmr mgmiybgdngjzjixw,gu.fgisiugz
uzrygf.gjqfg.sixgdngyzf mg.xghrub.hwagRguisixgczwfiuibgdngb..xgurvmfg.x
bzn,gfm.qvmgRghzwgf.gtigztwiufgwisixzygbznw;gu.fgisiughmiugfmiguiof
czyygRgwjiufgzgc.xfurvmfgrugfmigh..bwg.cgDzruiagZubgnifgdngm.qwighzw
d.xigxiwji fibgfmzugrcgrfgmzbgtiiugwqxx.qubibgtngzgcryig.cgw.ybrixwa
Fmigfrxibgxzdtyixg .qybgxiwfgzubghzxdgmrdwiycgtngdngcrxi,gfmigyrfixzxn
zdqwigmrdwiycghrfmgfmigcihgt..pwg.ugdngfztyi,g.xgfmig qxr.qw,gtn
.jiuruvgdng y.wifgb..x,gwiighmzfghzwgyicfg.cgdngbruuix,gzubghmzf
jx.wji fgRgmzbg.cgzgwqjjixagNif,gfm.qvmgdzungji.jyig.cgisixng yzwwg zdi
fmrwghzngf.gfmigj.ub,gRgwqccixibgu.gwixr.qwgru .usiuriu igcx.dgfmiwi
w.qx iw,gzubgRguisixgdrwwibgzunfmruvgtqfg.uigwdzyygt..p,gzgs.yqdig.c
M.dix,ghmr mgjixmzjwghzwgrdjx.jixyngvrybib,gzubgfmrwgRgfxqwfgzgw.ybrix
.cg.qxg zdjgmzwgc.qubgtngfmrwgfrdiagRgzdg .usru ib,gfmzfgrcgzyygdiu
hixigf.gyrsigzwgwrdjyngzwgRgfmiugbrb,gfmrisruvgzubgx.ttixngh.qybgti
qupu.huagFmiwigfzpigjyz ig.uyngrug .ddqurfriwghmixigw.digmzsigv.fgd.xi
fmzugrwgwqccr riufghmryig.fmixwgmzsigu.fgiu.qvmagFmigJ.ji’wgM.dixw
h.qybgw..ugvifgjx.jixyngbrwfxrtqfiba—

ggggggggggggggggggggg“Ui gtiyyzgcqixquf,
gggggCzvruqwgzwfztzfgbqdgw njmqwgzufigbzjiwa”

ggggggggggggggggggggg“U.xghzxwgbrbgdiugd.yiwf,
gggggHmiug.uyngtii miugt.hywghixigrugxilqiwfa”

“N.qghm.gv.sixugjqtyr gzcczrxw,ghmzfguiibgmzsign.qgf.gidjy.n
jqurwmdiufw?gY.sigsrxfqi,gzubgfmigji.jyighryygtigsrxfq.qwagFmigsrxfqiw
.cgzgwqjixr.xgdzugzxigyrpigfmighrub;gfmigsrxfqiwg.cgzg .dd.ugdzugzxi
yrpigfmigvxzww;gfmigvxzww,ghmiugfmighrubgjzwwiwg.sixgrf,gtiubwa”


FmigJ.ubw

W.difrdiw,gmzsruvgmzbgzgwqxcirfg.cgmqdzugw. rifngzubgv.wwrj,gzubgh.xu
.qfgzyygdngsryyzvigcxriubw,gRgxzdtyibgwfryygczxfmixghiwfhzxbgfmzugR
mztrfqzyyngbhiyy,gruf.gnifgd.xigqucxilqiufibgjzxfwg.cgfmigf.hu,g“f.
cxiwmgh..bwgzubgjzwfqxiwguih,”g.x,ghmryigfmigwqughzwgwiffruv,gdzbigdn
wqjjixg.cgmq pyitixxriwgzubgtyqitixxriwg.ugCzrxgMzsiugMryy,gzubgyzrbgqj
zgwf.xigc.xgwisixzygbznwagFmigcxqrfwgb.gu.fgnriybgfmirxgfxqigcyzs.xgf.
fmigjqx mzwixg.cgfmid,gu.xgf.gmrdghm.gxzrwiwgfmidgc.xgfmigdzxpifagFmixi
rwgtqfg.uighzngf.g.tfzrugrf,gnifgcihgfzpigfmzfghznagRcgn.qgh.qybgpu.h
fmigcyzs.xg.cgmq pyitixxriw,gzwpgfmig .h-t.ng.xgfmigjzxfxrbviagRfgrwgz
sqyvzxgixx.xgf.gwqjj.wigfmzfgn.qgmzsigfzwfibgmq pyitixxriwghm.guisix
jyq pibgfmidagZgmq pyitixxnguisixgxiz miwgT.wf.u;gfmingmzsigu.fgtiiu
pu.hugfmixigwru igfmingvxihg.ugmixgfmxiigmryywagFmigzdtx.wrzygzub
iwwiufrzygjzxfg.cgfmigcxqrfgrwgy.wfghrfmgfmigty..dghmr mgrwgxqttibg.cc
rugfmigdzxpifg zxf,gzubgfmingti .digdixigjx.siubixagZwgy.uvgzwgIfixuzy
Kqwfr igxirvuw,gu.fg.uigruu. iufgmq pyitixxng zugtigfxzuwj.xfibgfmrfmix
cx.dgfmig .qufxn’wgmryywa

.  zwr.uzyyn,gzcfixgdngm.iruvghzwgb.uigc.xgfmigbzn,gRgk.ruibgw.di
rdjzfriufg .djzur.ughm.gmzbgtiiugcrwmruvg.ugfmigj.ubgwru igd.xuruv,gzw
wryiufgzubgd.fr.uyiwwgzwgzgbq pg.xgzgcy.zfruvgyizc,gzub,gzcfix
jxz frwruvgszxr.qwgprubwg.cgjmry.w.jmn,gmzbg .u yqbibg .dd.uyn,gtngfmi
frdigRgzxxrsib,gfmzfgmigtiy.uvibgf.gfmigzu riufgwi fg.cg œu.trfiwa
Fmixighzwg.uig.ybixgdzu,gzugio iyyiufgcrwmixgzubgwpryyibgrugzyygprubw
.cgh..b xzcf,ghm.ghzwgjyizwibgf.gy..pgqj.ugdngm.qwigzwgzgtqrybruv
ixi fibgc.xgfmig .usiuriu ig.cgcrwmixdiu;gzubgRghzwgilqzyyngjyizwib
hmiugmigwzfgrugdngb..xhzngf.gzxxzuvigmrwgyruiwag.u igrugzghmryighigwzf
f.vifmixg.ugfmigj.ub,gmigzfg.uigiubg.cgfmigt.zf,gzubgRgzfgfmig.fmix;
tqfgu.fgdzungh.xbwgjzwwibgtifhiiugqw,gc.xgmigmzbgvx.hugbizcgrugmrw
yzfixgnizxw,gtqfgmig.  zwr.uzyyngmqddibgzgjwzyd,ghmr mgmzxd.ureibghiyy
iu.qvmghrfmgdngjmry.w.jmnag.qxgrufix .qxwighzwgfmqwgzyf.vifmixg.uig.c
qutx.piugmzxd.un,gczxgd.xigjyizwruvgf.gxididtixgfmzugrcgrfgmzbgtiiu
 zxxribg.ugtngwjii magHmiu,gzwghzwg .dd.uyngfmig zwi,gRgmzbgu.uigf.
 .ddquighrfm,gRgqwibgf.gxzrwigfmigi m.iwgtngwfxrpruvghrfmgzgjzbbyig.u
fmigwrbig.cgdngt.zf,gcryyruvgfmigwqxx.qubruvgh..bwghrfmg rx yruvgzub
bryzfruvgw.qub,gwfrxxruvgfmidgqjgzwgfmigpiijixg.cgzgdiuzvixrigmrwghryb
tizwfw,gqufrygRgiyr rfibgzgvx.hygcx.dgisixngh..bibgszyigzubgmryy-wrbia

RughzxdgisiuruvwgRgcxilqiufyngwzfgrugfmigt.zfgjyznruvgfmigcyqfi,gzub
wzhgfmigjix m,ghmr mgRgwiidibgf.gmzsig mzxdib,gm.sixruvgzx.qubgdi,gzub
fmigd..ugfxzsiyyruvg.sixgfmigxrttibgt.ff.d,ghmr mghzwgwfxihibghrfmgfmi
hxi pwg.cgfmigc.xiwfagC.xdixyngRgmzbg .digf.gfmrwgj.ubgzbsiufqx.qwyn,
cx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,grugbzxpgwqddixgurvmfw,ghrfmgzg .djzur.u,gzubgdzpruv
zgcrxig y.wigf.gfmighzfix’wgibvi,ghmr mghigfm.qvmfgzffxz fibgfmi
crwmiw,ghig zqvmfgj.qfwghrfmgzgtqu mg.cgh.xdwgwfxquvg.ugzgfmxizb;gzub
hmiughigmzbgb.ui,gczxgrugfmigurvmf,gfmxihgfmigtqxuruvgtxzubwgmrvmgruf.
fmigzrxgyrpigwpnx. pifw,ghmr m,g .druvgb.hugruf.gfmigj.ub,ghixi
lqiu mibghrfmgzgy.qbgmrwwruv,gzubghighixigwqbbiuyngvx.jruvgrugf.fzy
bzxpuiwwagFmx.qvmgfmrw,ghmrwfyruvgzgfqui,ghigf..pg.qxghzngf.gfmigmzqufw
.cgdiugzvzruagTqfgu.hgRgmzbgdzbigdngm.digtngfmigwm.xia

W.difrdiw,gzcfixgwfznruvgrugzgsryyzvigjzxy.xgfryygfmigczdryngmzbgzyy
xifrxib,gRgmzsigxifqxuibgf.gfmigh..bw,gzub,gjzxfynghrfmgzgsrihgf.gfmi
uiofgbzn’wgbruuix,gwjiufgfmigm.qxwg.cgdrburvmfgcrwmruvgcx.dgzgt.zfgtn
d..uyrvmf,gwixiuzbibgtng.hywgzubgc.oiw,gzubgmizxruv,gcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,
fmig xizpruvgu.fig.cgw.digqupu.hugtrxbg y.wigzfgmzubagFmiwigiojixriu iw
hixigsixngdid.xztyigzubgszyqztyigf.gdi,—zu m.xibgrugc.xfngciifg.c
hzfix,gzubgfhiufng.xgfmrxfngx.bwgcx.dgfmigwm.xi,gwqxx.qubibgw.difrdiw
tngfm.qwzubwg.cgwdzyygjix mgzubgwmruixw,gbrdjyruvgfmigwqxcz ighrfm
fmirxgfzrywgrugfmigd..uyrvmf,gzubg .ddqur zfruvgtngzgy.uvgcyzoiugyrui
hrfmgdnwfixr.qwgu. fqxuzygcrwmiwghmr mgmzbgfmirxgbhiyyruvgc.xfngciif
tiy.h,g.xgw.difrdiwgbxzvvruvgwrofngciifg.cgyruigzt.qfgfmigj.ubgzwgR
bxrcfibgrugfmigviufyigurvmfgtxiiei,gu.hgzubgfmiugciiyruvgzgwyrvmf
srtxzfr.ugzy.uvgrf,grubr zfrsig.cgw.digyrcigjx.hyruvgzt.qfgrfw
iofxidrfn,g.cgbqyygqu ixfzrugtyqubixruvgjqxj.wigfmixi,gzubgwy.hgf.gdzpi
qjgrfwgdrubagZfgyiuvfmgn.qgwy.hyngxzrwi,gjqyyruvgmzubg.sixgmzub,gw.di
m.xuibgj.qfgwlqizpruvgzubgwlqrxdruvgf.gfmigqjjixgzrxagRfghzwgsixn
lqiix,giwji rzyyngrugbzxpgurvmfw,ghmiugn.qxgfm.qvmfwgmzbghzubixibgf.
szwfgzubg .wd.v.uzygfmidiwgrug.fmixgwjmixiw,gf.gciiygfmrwgczrufgkixp,
hmr mg zdigf.grufixxqjfgn.qxgbxizdwgzubgyrupgn.qgf.gUzfqxigzvzruagRf
wiidibgzwgrcgRgdrvmfguiofg zwfgdngyruigqjhzxbgruf.gfmigzrx,gzwghiyygzw
b.huhzxbgruf.gfmrwgiyidiuf,ghmr mghzwgw zx iyngd.xigbiuwiagFmqwgR
 zqvmfgfh.gcrwmiwgzwgrfghixighrfmg.uigm..pa



Fmigw iuixng.cgHzybiugrwg.ugzgmqdtyigw zyi,gzub,gfm.qvmgsixngtizqfrcqy,
b.iwgu.fgzjjx.z mgf.gvxzubiqx,gu.xg zugrfgdq mg .u ixug.uighm.gmzwgu.f
y.uvgcxilqiufibgrfg.xgyrsibgtngrfwgwm.xi;gnifgfmrwgj.ubgrwgw.
xidzxpztyigc.xgrfwgbijfmgzubgjqxrfngzwgf.gdixrfgzgjzxfr qyzx
biw xrjfr.uagRfgrwgzg yizxgzubgbiijgvxiiughiyy,gmzycgzgdryigy.uvgzubgz
dryigzubgfmxiiglqzxfixwgrug rx qdcixiu i,gzubg .ufzruwgzt.qfgwrofn-.ui
zubgzgmzycgz xiw;gzgjixiuurzygwjxruvgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgjruigzubg.zp
h..bw,ghrfm.qfgzungsrwrtyigruyifg.xg.qfyifgio ijfgtngfmig y.qbwgzub
iszj.xzfr.uagFmigwqxx.qubruvgmryywgxrwigztxqjfyngcx.dgfmighzfixgf.gfmi
mirvmfg.cgc.xfngf.girvmfngciif,gfm.qvmg.ugfmigw.qfm-izwfgzubgizwfgfmin
zffzrugf.gzt.qfg.uigmqubxibgzubg.uigmqubxibgzubgcrcfngciif
xiwji frsiyn,ghrfmrugzglqzxfixgzubgzgfmrxbg.cgzgdryiagFmingzxi
io yqwrsiyngh..byzubagZyyg.qxg .u .xbghzfixwgmzsigfh.g .y.xwgzfgyizwf;
.uighmiugsrihibgzfgzgbrwfzu i,gzubgzu.fmix,gd.xigjx.jix,g y.wigzfgmzuba
Fmigcrxwfgbijiubwgd.xig.ugfmigyrvmf,gzubgc.yy.hwgfmigwpnagRug yizx
hizfmix,grugwqddix,gfmingzjjizxgtyqigzfgzgyrffyigbrwfzu i,giwji rzyyn
rcgzvrfzfib,gzubgzfgzgvxizfgbrwfzu igzyygzjjizxgzyrpiagRugwf.xdn
hizfmixgfmingzxigw.difrdiwg.cgzgbzxpgwyzfig .y.xagFmigwiz,gm.hisix,grw
wzrbgf.gtigtyqig.uigbzngzubgvxiiugzu.fmixghrfm.qfgzungjix ijfrtyi
 mzuvigrugfmigzfd.wjmixiagRgmzsigwiiug.qxgxrsix,ghmiu,gfmigyzubw zji
tiruvg .sixibghrfmgwu.h,gt.fmghzfixgzubgr ighixigzyd.wfgzwgvxiiugzw
vxzwwagW.dig .uwrbixgtyqig“f.gtigfmig .y.xg.cgjqxighzfix,ghmifmix
yrlqrbg.xgw.yrba”gTqf,gy..pruvgbrxi fyngb.hugruf.g.qxghzfixwgcx.dgz
t.zf,gfmingzxigwiiugf.gtig.cgsixngbrccixiufg .y.xwagHzybiugrwgtyqigzf
.uigfrdigzubgvxiiugzfgzu.fmix,gisiugcx.dgfmigwzdigj.rufg.cgsrihagYnruv
tifhiiugfmigizxfmgzubgfmigmizsiuw,grfgjzxfzpiwg.cgfmig .y.xg.cgt.fma
Srihibgcx.dgzgmryy-f.jgrfgxicyi fwgfmig .y.xg.cgfmigwpn;gtqfguizxgzf
mzubgrfgrwg.cgzgniyy.hrwmgfrufguiofgfmigwm.xighmixign.qg zugwiigfmi
wzub,gfmiugzgyrvmfgvxiiu,ghmr mgvxzbqzyyngbiijiuwgf.gzgqurc.xdgbzxp
vxiiugrugfmigt.bng.cgfmigj.ubagRugw.digyrvmfw,gsrihibgisiugcx.dgz
mryy-f.j,grfgrwg.cgzgsrsrbgvxiiuguiofgfmigwm.xiagW.digmzsigxicixxib
fmrwgf.gfmigxicyi fr.ug.cgfmigsixbqxi;gtqfgrfgrwgilqzyyngvxiiugfmixi
zvzruwfgfmigxzryx.zbgwzub-tzup,gzubgrugfmigwjxruv,gtic.xigfmigyizsiw
zxigiojzubib,gzubgrfgdzngtigwrdjyngfmigxiwqyfg.cgfmigjxiszryruvgtyqi
droibghrfmgfmigniyy.hg.cgfmigwzubagWq mgrwgfmig .y.xg.cgrfwgrxrwagFmrw
rwgfmzfgj.xfr.u,gzyw.,ghmixigrugfmigwjxruv,gfmigr igtiruvghzxdibgtngfmi
mizfg.cgfmigwqugxicyi fibgcx.dgfmigt.ff.d,gzubgzyw.gfxzuwdrffibgfmx.qvm
fmigizxfm,gdiyfwgcrxwfgzubgc.xdwgzguzxx.hg zuzygzt.qfgfmigwfryygcx.eiu
drbbyiagYrpigfmigxiwfg.cg.qxghzfixw,ghmiugdq mgzvrfzfib,grug yizx
hizfmix,gw.gfmzfgfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmighzsiwgdzngxicyi fgfmigwpngzfgfmi
xrvmfgzuvyi,g.xgti zqwigfmixigrwgd.xigyrvmfgdroibghrfmgrf,grfgzjjizxw
zfgzgyrffyigbrwfzu ig.cgzgbzxpixgtyqigfmzugfmigwpngrfwiyc;gzubgzfgwq m
zgfrdi,gtiruvg.ugrfwgwqxcz i,gzubgy..pruvghrfmgbrsrbibgsrwr.u,gw.gzwgf.
wiigfmigxicyi fr.u,gRgmzsigbrw ixuibgzgdzf myiwwgzubgrubiw xrtztyi
yrvmfgtyqi,gwq mgzwghzfixibg.xg mzuviztyigwrypwgzubgwh.xbgtyzbiw
wqvviwf,gd.xig ixqyizugfmzugfmigwpngrfwiyc,gzyfixuzfruvghrfmgfmi
.xrvruzygbzxpgvxiiug.ugfmig.jj.wrfigwrbiwg.cgfmighzsiw,ghmr mgyzwf
zjjizxibgtqfgdqbbngrug .djzxrw.uagRfgrwgzgsrfxi.qwgvxiiurwmgtyqi,gzwgR
xididtixgrf,gyrpigfm.wigjzf miwg.cgfmighrufixgwpngwiiugfmx.qvmg y.qb
srwfzwgrugfmighiwfgtic.xigwqub.huagNifgzgwruvyigvyzwwg.cgrfwghzfixgmiyb
qjgf.gfmigyrvmfgrwgzwg .y.xyiwwgzwgzugilqzyglqzufrfng.cgzrxagRfgrwghiyy
pu.hugfmzfgzgyzxvigjyzfig.cgvyzwwghryygmzsigzgvxiiugfruf,g.hruv,gzwgfmi
dzpixwgwzn,gf.grfwg“t.bn,”gtqfgzgwdzyygjri ig.cgfmigwzdighryygti
 .y.xyiwwagM.hgyzxvigzgt.bng.cgHzybiughzfixgh.qybgtigxilqrxibgf.
xicyi fgzgvxiiugfrufgRgmzsiguisixgjx.sibagFmighzfixg.cg.qxgxrsixgrw
tyz pg.xgzgsixngbzxpgtx.hugf.g.uigy..pruvgbrxi fyngb.hug.ugrf,gzub,
yrpigfmzfg.cgd.wfgj.ubw,grdjzxfwgf.gfmigt.bng.cg.uigtzfmruvgrugrfgz
niyy.hrwmgfruvi;gtqfgfmrwghzfixgrwg.cgwq mg xnwfzyyruigjqxrfngfmzfgfmi
t.bng.cgfmigtzfmixgzjjizxwg.cgzugzyztzwfixghmrfiuiww,gwfryygd.xi
quuzfqxzy,ghmr m,gzwgfmigyrdtwgzxigdzvurcribgzubgbrwf.xfibghrfmzy,
jx.bq iwgzgd.uwfx.qwgicci f,gdzpruvgcrfgwfqbriwgc.xgzgDr mziygZuviy.a

Fmighzfixgrwgw.gfxzuwjzxiufgfmzfgfmigt.ff.dg zugizwryngtigbrw ixuibgzf
fmigbijfmg.cgfhiufn-crsig.xgfmrxfngciifagJzbbyruvg.sixgrf,gn.qgdzngwii,
dzungciifgtiuizfmgfmigwqxcz igfmigw m..ywg.cgjix mgzubgwmruixw,gjixmzjw
.uyngzugru mgy.uv,gnifgfmigc.xdixgizwryngbrwfruvqrwmibgtngfmirx
fxzuwsixwigtzxw,gzubgn.qgfmrupgfmzfgfmingdqwfgtigzw ifr gcrwmgfmzfgcrub
zgwqtwrwfiu igfmixiag.u i,grugfmighrufix,gdzungnizxwgzv.,ghmiugRgmzb
tiiug qffruvgm.yiwgfmx.qvmgfmigr igrug.xbixgf.g zf mgjr pixiy,gzwgR
wfijjibgzwm.xigRgf.wwibgdngzoigtz pg.ugf.gfmigr i,gtqf,gzwgrcgw.digisry
viurqwgmzbgbrxi fibgrf,grfgwyrbgc.qxg.xgcrsigx.bwgbrxi fyngruf.g.uig.c
fmigm.yiw,ghmixigfmighzfixghzwgfhiufn-crsigciifgbiijag.qfg.cg qxr.wrfn,
Rgyzngb.hug.ugfmigr igzubgy..pibgfmx.qvmgfmigm.yi,gqufrygRgwzhgfmigzoi
zgyrffyig.ug.uigwrbi,gwfzubruvg.ugrfwgmizb,ghrfmgrfwgmiysigixi fgzub
viufyngwhznruvgf.gzubgcx.ghrfmgfmigjqywig.cgfmigj.ub;gzubgfmixigrf
drvmfgmzsigwf..bgixi fgzubgwhznruvgfryygrugfmig .qxwig.cgfrdigfmi
mzubyigx.ffibg.cc,grcgRgmzbgu.fgbrwfqxtibgrfagDzpruvgzu.fmixgm.yi
brxi fyng.sixgrfghrfmgzugr ig mrwiyghmr mgRgmzb,gzubg qffruvgb.hugfmi
y.uviwfgtrx mghmr mgRg .qybgcrubgrugfmiguirvmt.xm..bghrfmgdngpurci,gR
dzbigzgwyrj-u..wi,ghmr mgRgzffz mibgf.grfwgiub,gzub,gyiffruvgrfgb.hu
 zxicqyyn,gjzwwibgrfg.sixgfmigpu.tg.cgfmigmzubyi,gzubgbxihgrfgtngzgyrui
zy.uvgfmigtrx m,gzubgw.gjqyyibgfmigzoig.qfgzvzrua

Fmigwm.xigrwg .dj.wibg.cgzgtiyfg.cgwd..fmgx.qubibghmrfigwf.uiwgyrpi
jzsruvgwf.uiw,gio ijfruvg.uig.xgfh.gwm.xfgwzubgtiz miw,gzubgrwgw.gwfiij
fmzfgrugdzungjyz iwgzgwruvyigyizjghryyg zxxngn.qgruf.ghzfixg.sixgn.qx
mizb;gzubghixigrfgu.fgc.xgrfwgxidzxpztyigfxzuwjzxiu n,gfmzfgh.qybgti
fmigyzwfgf.gtigwiiug.cgrfwgt.ff.dgfryygrfgx.wig.ugfmig.jj.wrfigwrbia
W.digfmrupgrfgrwgt.ff.dyiwwagRfgrwgu.hmixigdqbbn,gzubgzg zwqzyg.twixsix
h.qybgwzngfmzfgfmixighixigu.ghiibwgzfgzyygrugrf;gzubg.cgu.fr iztyi
jyzufw,gio ijfgrugfmigyrffyigdizb.hwgxi iufyng.sixcy.hib,ghmr mgb.gu.f
jx.jixyngtiy.uvgf.grf,gzg y.wixgw xqfrungb.iwgu.fgbifi fgzgcyzvgu.xgz
tqyxqwm,gu.xgisiugzgyryn,gniyy.hg.xghmrfi,gtqfg.uyngzgcihgwdzyy
mizxf-yizsiwgzubgj.fzd.vif.uw,gzubgjixmzjwgzghzfix-fzxvifg.xgfh.;gzyy
hmr mgm.hisixgzgtzfmixgdrvmfgu.fgjix irsi;gzubgfmiwigjyzufwgzxig yizu
zubgtxrvmfgyrpigfmigiyidiufgfmingvx.hgruagFmigwf.uiwgiofiubgzgx.bg.x
fh.gruf.gfmighzfix,gzubgfmiugfmigt.ff.dgrwgjqxigwzub,gio ijfgrugfmi
biijiwfgjzxfw,ghmixigfmixigrwgqwqzyyngzgyrffyigwibrdiuf,gjx.tztyngcx.d
fmigbi zng.cgfmigyizsiwghmr mgmzsigtiiughzcfibg.ugf.grfgw.gdzun
wq  iwwrsigczyyw,gzubgzgtxrvmfgvxiiughiibgrwgtx.qvmfgqjg.ugzu m.xwgisiu
rugdrbhrufixa

Higmzsig.uig.fmixgj.ubgkqwfgyrpigfmrw,gHmrfigJ.ub,grugUruigZ xig .xuix,
zt.qfgfh.gzubgzgmzycgdryiwghiwfixyn;gtqf,gfm.qvmgRgzdgz lqzrufibghrfm
d.wfg.cgfmigj.ubwghrfmrugzgb.eiugdryiwg.cgfmrwg iufxigRgb.gu.fgpu.hgz
fmrxbg.cgfmrwgjqxigzubghiyy-yrpig mzxz fixagWq  iwwrsiguzfr.uw
jix mzu igmzsigbxzupgzf,gzbdrxib,gzubgczfm.dibgrf,gzubgjzwwibgzhzn,gzub
wfryygrfwghzfixgrwgvxiiugzubgjiyyq rbgzwgisixagU.fgzugrufixdrffruv
wjxruv!gJixmzjwg.ugfmzfgwjxruvgd.xuruvghmiugZbzdgzubgIsighixigbxrsiu
.qfg.cgIbiugHzybiugJ.ubghzwgzyxizbngrugiorwfiu i,gzubgisiugfmiu
txizpruvgqjgrugzgviufyigwjxruvgxzrugz  .djzuribghrfmgdrwfgzubgz
w.qfmixynghrub,gzubg .sixibghrfmgdnxrzbwg.cgbq pwgzubgviiwi,ghmr mgmzb
u.fgmizxbg.cgfmigczyy,ghmiugwfryygwq mgjqxigyzpiwgwqccr ibgfmidagIsiu
fmiugrfgmzbg .ddiu ibgf.gxrwigzubgczyy,gzubgmzbg yzxrcribgrfwghzfixw
zubg .y.xibgfmidg.cgfmigmqigfmingu.hghizx,gzubg.tfzruibgzgjzfiufg.c
mizsiugf.gtigfmig.uyngHzybiugJ.ubgrugfmigh.xybgzubgbrwfryyixg.c
 iyiwfrzygbihwagHm.gpu.hwgrugm.hgdzungquxididtixibguzfr.uw’gyrfixzfqxiw
fmrwgmzwgtiiugfmig zwfzyrzugC.qufzru?g.xghmzfgundjmwgjxiwrbibg.sixgrf
rugfmigV.ybiugZvi?gRfgrwgzgvidg.cgfmigcrxwfghzfixghmr mg .u .xbghizxw
rugmixg .x.uifa

Nifgjix mzu igfmigcrxwfghm.g zdigf.gfmrwghiyygmzsigyicfgw.digfxz ig.c
fmirxgc..fwfijwagRgmzsigtiiugwqxjxrwibgf.gbifi fgiu rx yruvgfmigj.ub,
isiughmixigzgfmr pgh..bgmzwgkqwfgtiiug qfgb.hug.ugfmigwm.xi,gzguzxx.h
wmiyc-yrpigjzfmgrugfmigwfiijgmryy-wrbi,gzyfixuzfiyngxrwruvgzubgczyyruv,
zjjx.z mruvgzubgxi ibruvgcx.dgfmighzfix’wgibvi,gzwg.ybgjx.tztyngzwgfmi
xz ig.cgdzugmixi,gh.xugtngfmigciifg.cgzt.xrvruzygmqufixw,gzubgwfryy
cx.dgfrdigf.gfrdigquhrffruvyngfx.bbiugtngfmigjxiwiufg.  qjzufwg.cgfmi
yzubagFmrwgrwgjzxfr qyzxyngbrwfru fgf.g.uigwfzubruvg.ugfmigdrbbyig.c
fmigj.ubgrughrufix,gkqwfgzcfixgzgyrvmfgwu.hgmzwgczyyiu,gzjjizxruvgzwgz
 yizxgqubqyzfruvghmrfigyrui,gqu.tw qxibgtnghiibwgzubgfhrvw,gzubgsixn
.tsr.qwgzglqzxfixg.cgzgdryig.ccgrugdzungjyz iwghmixigrugwqddixgrfgrw
mzxbyngbrwfruvqrwmztyig y.wigzfgmzubagFmigwu.hgxijxrufwgrf,gzwgrfghixi,
rug yizxghmrfigfnjigzyf.-xiyris.agFmig.xuzdiufibgvx.qubwg.cgsryyzw
hmr mghryyg.uigbzngtigtqryfgmixigdzngwfryygjxiwixsigw.digfxz ig.cgfmrwa

Fmigj.ubgxrwiwgzubgczyyw,gtqfghmifmixgxivqyzxyng.xgu.f,gzubghrfmrughmzf
jixr.b,gu.t.bngpu.hw,gfm.qvm,gzwgqwqzy,gdzungjxifiubgf.gpu.hagRfgrw
 .dd.uyngmrvmixgrugfmighrufixgzubgy.hixgrugfmigwqddix,gfm.qvmgu.f
 .xxiwj.ubruvgf.gfmigviuixzyghifgzubgbxnuiwwagRg zugxididtixghmiugrf
hzwgzgc..fg.xgfh.gy.hix,gzubgzyw.ghmiugrfghzwgzfgyizwfgcrsigciif
mrvmix,gfmzughmiugRgyrsibgtngrfagFmixigrwgzguzxx.hgwzub-tzxgxquuruv
ruf.grf,ghrfmgsixngbiijghzfixg.ug.uigwrbi,g.ughmr mgRgmiyjibgt.rygz
piffyig.cg m.hbix,gw.digwrogx.bwgcx.dgfmigdzrugwm.xi,gzt.qfgfmignizx
1824,ghmr mgrfgmzwgu.fgtiiugj.wwrtyigf.gb.gc.xgfhiufn-crsignizxw;gzub
.ugfmig.fmixgmzub,gdngcxriubwgqwibgf.gyrwfiughrfmgru xibqyrfnghmiugR
f.ybgfmid,gfmzfgzgcihgnizxwgyzfixgRghzwgz  qwf.dibgf.gcrwmgcx.dgzgt.zf
rugzgwi yqbibg .sigrugfmigh..bw,gcrcfiiugx.bwgcx.dgfmig.uyngwm.xigfmin
puih,ghmr mgjyz ighzwgy.uvgwru ig .usixfibgruf.gzgdizb.hagTqfgfmigj.ub
mzwgxrwiugwfizbryngc.xgfh.gnizxw,gzubgu.h,grugfmigwqddixg.cg’52,grw
kqwfgcrsigciifgmrvmixgfmzughmiugRgyrsibgfmixi,g.xgzwgmrvmgzwgrfghzw
fmrxfngnizxwgzv.,gzubgcrwmruvgv.iwg.ugzvzrugrugfmigdizb.hagFmrwgdzpiwgz
brccixiu ig.cgyisiy,gzfgfmig.qfwrbi,g.cgwrog.xgwisiugciif;gzubgnifgfmi
hzfixgwmibgtngfmigwqxx.qubruvgmryywgrwgruwrvurcr zufgrugzd.quf,gzub
fmrwg.sixcy.hgdqwfgtigxicixxibgf.g zqwiwghmr mgzcci fgfmigbiijgwjxruvwa
Fmrwgwzdigwqddixgfmigj.ubgmzwgtivqugf.gczyygzvzruagRfgrwgxidzxpztyi
fmzfgfmrwgcyq fqzfr.u,ghmifmixgjixr.br zyg.xgu.f,gzjjizxwgfmqwgf.
xilqrxigdzungnizxwgc.xgrfwgz  .djyrwmdiufagRgmzsig.twixsibg.uigxrwigzub
zgjzxfg.cgfh.gczyyw,gzubgRgioji fgfmzfgzgb.eiug.xgcrcfiiugnizxwgmiu i
fmighzfixghryygzvzrugtigzwgy.hgzwgRgmzsigisixgpu.hugrfagCyruf’wgJ.ub,gz
dryigizwfhzxb,gzyy.hruvgc.xgfmigbrwfqxtzu ig.  zwr.uibgtngrfwgruyifw
zubg.qfyifw,gzubgfmigwdzyyixgrufixdibrzfigj.ubwgzyw.,gwndjzfmreighrfm
Hzybiu,gzubgxi iufyngzffzruibgfmirxgvxizfiwfgmirvmfgzfgfmigwzdigfrdi
hrfmgfmigyzffixagFmigwzdigrwgfxqi,gzwgczxgzwgdng.twixszfr.ugv.iw,g.c
HmrfigJ.uba

Fmrwgxrwigzubgczyyg.cgHzybiugzfgy.uvgrufixszywgwixsiwgfmrwgqwigzf
yizwf;gfmighzfixgwfzubruvgzfgfmrwgvxizfgmirvmfgc.xgzgnizxg.xgd.xi,
fm.qvmgrfgdzpiwgrfgbrccr qyfgf.ghzypgx.qubgrf,gpryywgfmigwmxqtwgzub
fxiiwghmr mgmzsigwjxquvgqjgzt.qfgrfwgibvigwru igfmigyzwfgxrwi,
jrf m-jruiw,gtrx miw,gzybixw,gzwjiuw,gzubg.fmixw,gzub,gczyyruvgzvzru,
yizsiwgzugqu.twfxq fibgwm.xi;gc.x,gquyrpigdzungj.ubwgzubgzyyghzfixw
hmr mgzxigwqtki fgf.gzgbzryngfrbi,grfwgwm.xigrwg yizuiwfghmiugfmighzfix
rwgy.hiwfag.ugfmigwrbig.cgfmigj.ubguiofgdngm.qwi,gzgx.hg.cgjrf mgjruiw
crcfiiugciifgmrvmgmzwgtiiugpryyibgzubgfrjjibg.sixgzwgrcgtngzgyisix,gzub
fmqwgzgwf.jgjqfgf.gfmirxgiu x.z mdiufw;gzubgfmirxgwreigrubr zfiwgm.h
dzungnizxwgmzsigiyzjwibgwru igfmigyzwfgxrwigf.gfmrwgmirvmfagTngfmrw
cyq fqzfr.ugfmigj.ubgzwwixfwgrfwgfrfyigf.gzgwm.xi,gzubgfmqwgfmig_wm.xi_
rwg_wm.xu_,gzubgfmigfxiiwg zuu.fgm.ybgrfgtngxrvmfg.cgj.wwiwwr.uagFmiwi
zxigfmigyrjwg.cgfmigyzpig.ughmr mgu.gtizxbgvx.hwagRfgyr pwgrfwg mzjw
cx.dgfrdigf.gfrdiagHmiugfmighzfixgrwgzfgrfwgmirvmf,gfmigzybixw,
hryy.hw,gzubgdzjyiwgwiubgc.xfmgzgdzwwg.cgcrtx.qwgxibgx..fwgwisixzygciif
y.uvgcx.dgzyygwrbiwg.cgfmirxgwfidwgrugfmighzfix,gzubgf.gfmigmirvmfg.c
fmxiig.xgc.qxgciifgcx.dgfmigvx.qub,grugfmigicc.xfgf.gdzrufzru
fmidwiysiw;gzubgRgmzsigpu.hugfmigmrvm-tyqitixxngtqwmiwgzt.qfgfmigwm.xi,
hmr mg .dd.uyngjx.bq igu.gcxqrf,gtizxgzugztqubzufg x.jgqubixgfmiwi
 rx qdwfzu iwa

W.digmzsigtiiugjqeeyibgf.gfiyygm.hgfmigwm.xigti zdigw.gxivqyzxyngjzsiba
Dngf.huwdiugmzsigzyygmizxbgfmigfxzbrfr.u,gfmig.ybiwfgji.jyigfiyygdi
fmzfgfmingmizxbgrfgrugfmirxgn.qfm,gfmzfgzu riufyngfmigRubrzuwghixi
m.ybruvgzgj.h-h.hgqj.ugzgmryygmixi,ghmr mgx.wigzwgmrvmgruf.gfmigmizsiuw
zwgfmigj.ubgu.hgwrupwgbiijgruf.gfmigizxfm,gzubgfmingqwibgdq m
jx.czurfn,gzwgfmigwf.xngv.iw,gfm.qvmgfmrwgsr igrwg.uig.cghmr mgfmi
Rubrzuwghixiguisixgvqryfn,gzubghmryigfminghixigfmqwgiuvzvibgfmigmryy
wm..pgzubgwqbbiuyngwzup,gzubg.uyng.uig.ybgwlqzh,guzdibgHzybiu,giw zjib,
zubgcx.dgmixgfmigj.ubghzwguzdibagRfgmzwgtiiug .uki fqxibgfmzfghmiugfmi
mryygwm..pgfmiwigwf.uiwgx.yyibgb.hugrfwgwrbigzubgti zdigfmigjxiwiuf
wm.xiagRfgrwgsixng ixfzru,gzfgzungxzfi,gfmzfg.u igfmixighzwgu.gj.ub
mixi,gzubgu.hgfmixigrwg.ui;gzubgfmrwgRubrzugcztyigb.iwgu.fgrugzun
xiwji fg .ucyr fghrfmgfmigz  .qufg.cgfmzfgzu riufgwiffyixghm.dgRgmzsi
diufr.uib,ghm.gxididtixwgw.ghiyyghmiugmigcrxwfg zdigmixighrfmgmrw
brsruruvgx.b,gwzhgzgfmrugszj.xgxrwruvgcx.dgfmigwhzxb,gzubgfmigmzeiy
j.rufibgwfizbryngb.huhzxb,gzubgmig .u yqbibgf.gbrvgzghiyygmixiagZwgc.x
fmigwf.uiw,gdzungwfryygfmrupgfmzfgfmingzxigmzxbyngf.gtigz  .qufibgc.x
tngfmigz fr.ug.cgfmighzsiwg.ugfmiwigmryyw;gtqfgRg.twixsigfmzfgfmi
wqxx.qubruvgmryywgzxigxidzxpztyngcqyyg.cgfmigwzdigprubg.cgwf.uiw,gw.
fmzfgfmingmzsigtiiug.tyrvibgf.gjryigfmidgqjgrughzyywg.ugt.fmgwrbiwg.c
fmigxzryx.zbg qfguizxiwfgfmigj.ub;gzub,gd.xi.six,gfmixigzxigd.wfgwf.uiw
hmixigfmigwm.xigrwgd.wfgztxqjf;gw.gfmzf,gquc.xfquzfiyn,grfgrwgu.gy.uvix
zgdnwfixngf.gdiagRgbifi fgfmigjzsixagRcgfmiguzdighzwgu.fgbixrsibgcx.d
fmzfg.cgw.digIuvyrwmgy. zyrfn,—Wzccx.ugHzybiu,gc.xgruwfzu i,—.uigdrvmf
wqjj.wigfmzfgrfghzwg zyyibg.xrvruzyyng_Hzyyib-ru_gJ.uba

Fmigj.ubghzwgdnghiyygxizbngbqvagC.xgc.qxgd.ufmwgrugfmignizxgrfwghzfix
rwgzwg .ybgzwgrfgrwgjqxigzfgzyygfrdiw;gzubgRgfmrupgfmzfgrfgrwgfmiugzw
v..bgzwgzun,grcgu.fgfmigtiwf,grugfmigf.huagRugfmighrufix,gzyyghzfix
hmr mgrwgioj.wibgf.gfmigzrxgrwg .ybixgfmzugwjxruvwgzubghiyywghmr mgzxi
jx.fi fibgcx.dgrfagFmigfidjixzfqxig.cgfmigj.ubghzfixghmr mgmzbgwf..bgru
fmigx..dghmixigRgwzfgcx.dgcrsig.’ y. pgrugfmigzcfixu..ugfryygu..ugfmi
uiofgbzn,gfmigwrofmg.cgDzx m,g1846,gfmigfmixd.difixgmzsruvgtiiugqjgf.
65°g.xg70°gw.dig.cgfmigfrdi,g.hruvgjzxfyngf.gfmigwqug.ugfmigx..c,ghzw
42°,g.xg.uigbivxiig .ybixgfmzugfmighzfixg.cg.uig.cgfmig .ybiwfghiyywgru
fmigsryyzvigkqwfgbxzhuagFmigfidjixzfqxig.cgfmigT.ryruvgWjxruvgfmigwzdi
bznghzwg45°,g.xgfmighzxdiwfg.cgzunghzfixgfxrib,gfm.qvmgrfgrwgfmi
 .ybiwfgfmzfgRgpu.hg.cgrugwqddix,ghmiu,gtiwrbi,gwmzyy.hgzubgwfzvuzuf
wqxcz ighzfixgrwgu.fgdruvyibghrfmgrfagD.xi.six,grugwqddix,gHzybiuguisix
ti .diwgw.ghzxdgzwgd.wfghzfixghmr mgrwgioj.wibgf.gfmigwqu,g.ugz  .quf
.cgrfwgbijfmagRugfmighzxdiwfghizfmixgRgqwqzyyngjyz ibgzgjzrycqygrugdn
 iyyzx,ghmixigrfgti zdig ..ygrugfmigurvmf,gzubgxidzruibgw.gbqxruvgfmi
bzn;gfm.qvmgRgzyw.gxiw.xfibgf.gzgwjxruvgrugfmiguirvmt.xm..bagRfghzwgzw
v..bghmiugzghiipg.ybgzwgfmigbzngrfghzwgbrjjib,gzubgmzbgu.gfzwfig.cgfmi
jqdjagHm.isixg zdjwgc.xgzghiipgrugwqddixgtngfmigwm.xig.cgzgj.ub,guiibw
.uyngtqxngzgjzryg.cghzfixgzgcihgciifgbiijgrugfmigwmzbig.cgmrwg zdjgf.
tigrubijiubiufg.cgfmigyqoqxng.cgr ia

Fmixigmzsigtiiug zqvmfgrugHzybiugjr pixiy,g.uighirvmruvgwisiugj.qubw,
f.gwzngu.fmruvg.cgzu.fmixghmr mg zxxribg.ccgzgxiiyghrfmgvxizfgsiy. rfn,
hmr mgfmigcrwmixdzugwzciyngwifgb.hugzfgirvmfgj.qubwgti zqwigmigbrbgu.f
wiigmrd,gjix mgzubgj.qfw,gw.dig.cgiz mghirvmruvg.sixgfh.gj.qubw,
wmruixw,g mrsruwg.xgx.z mg(_Yiq rw qwgjqy miyyqw_),gzgsixngcihgtxizdw,
zubgzg .qjyig.cgiiyw,g.uighirvmruvgc.qxgj.qubw,—Rgzdgfmqwgjzxfr qyzx
ti zqwigfmighirvmfg.cgzgcrwmgrwg .dd.uyngrfwg.uyngfrfyigf.gczdi,gzub
fmiwigzxigfmig.uyngiiywgRgmzsigmizxbg.cgmixi;—zyw.,gRgmzsigzgczruf
xi .yyi fr.ug.cgzgyrffyigcrwmgw.digcrsigru miwgy.uv,ghrfmgwrysixngwrbiw
zubgzgvxiiurwmgtz p,gw.dihmzfgbz i-yrpigrugrfwg mzxz fix,ghmr mgR
diufr.ugmixig mricyngf.gyrupgdngcz fwgf.gcztyiagUisixfmiyiww,gfmrwgj.ub
rwgu.fgsixngcixfryigrugcrwmagRfwgjr pixiy,gfm.qvmgu.fgztqubzuf,gzxigrfw
 mricgt.zwfagRgmzsigwiiugzfg.uigfrdigynruvg.ugfmigr igjr pixiyg.cgzf
yizwfgfmxiigbrccixiufgprubw;gzgy.uvgzubgwmzyy.hg.ui,gwfiiy- .y.xib,
d.wfgyrpigfm.wig zqvmfgrugfmigxrsix;gzgtxrvmfgv.ybiugprub,ghrfm
vxiiurwmgxicyi fr.uwgzubgxidzxpztyngbiij,ghmr mgrwgfmigd.wfg .dd.u
mixi;gzubgzu.fmix,gv.ybiu- .y.xib,gzubgwmzjibgyrpigfmigyzwf,gtqf
jijjixibg.ugfmigwrbiwghrfmgwdzyygbzxpgtx.hug.xgtyz pgwj.fw,grufixdroib
hrfmgzgcihgczrufgty..b-xibg.uiw,gsixngdq mgyrpigzgfx.qfagFmigwji rcr 
uzdig_xifr qyzfqw_gh.qybgu.fgzjjyngf.gfmrw;grfgwm.qybgtig_vqffzfqw_
xzfmixagFmiwigzxigzyygsixngcrxdgcrwm,gzubghirvmgd.xigfmzugfmirxgwrei
jx.drwiwagFmigwmruixw,gj.qfw,gzubgjix mgzyw.,gzubgrubiibgzyygfmigcrwmiw
hmr mgrumztrfgfmrwgj.ub,gzxigdq mg yizuix,gmzubw.dix,gzubgcrxdix
cyiwmibgfmzugfm.wigrugfmigxrsixgzubgd.wfg.fmixgj.ubw,gzwgfmighzfixgrw
jqxix,gzubgfming zugizwryngtigbrwfruvqrwmibgcx.dgfmidagJx.tztyngdzun
r mfmn.y.vrwfwgh.qybgdzpiguihgszxrifriwg.cgw.dig.cgfmidagFmixigzxigzyw.
zg yizugxz ig.cgcx.vwgzubgf.xf.rwiw,gzubgzgcihgdqw iywgrugrf;gdqwpxzfw
zubgdrupwgyizsigfmirxgfxz iwgzt.qfgrf,gzubg.  zwr.uzyyngzgfxzsiyyruv
dqb-fqxfyigsrwrfwgrfagW.difrdiw,ghmiugRgjqwmibg.ccgdngt.zfgrugfmi
d.xuruv,gRgbrwfqxtibgzgvxizfgdqb-fqxfyighmr mgmzbgwi xifibgmrdwiyc
qubixgfmigt.zfgrugfmigurvmfagBq pwgzubgviiwigcxilqiufgrfgrugfmigwjxruv
zubgczyy,gfmighmrfi-tiyyribgwhzyy.hwg(_Mrxqub.gtr .y.x_)gwprdg.sixgrf,
zubgfmigjiifhiifwg(_F.fzuqwgdz qyzxrqw_)g“fifix”gzy.uvgrfwgwf.ungwm.xiw
zyygwqddixagRgmzsigw.difrdiwgbrwfqxtibgzgcrwmmzhpgwrffruvg.ugz
hmrfi-jruig.sixgfmighzfix;gtqfgRgb.qtfgrcgrfgrwgisixgjx.czuibgtngfmi
hruvg.cgzgvqyy,gyrpigCzrxgMzsiuagZfgd.wf,grfgf.yixzfiwg.uigzuuqzygy..ua
Fmiwigzxigzyygfmigzurdzywg.cg .uwilqiu ighmr mgcxilqiufgrfgu.ha

N.qgdzngwiigcx.dgzgt.zf,grug zydghizfmix,guizxgfmigwzubngizwfixugwm.xi,
hmixigfmighzfixgrwgirvmfg.xgfiugciifgbiij,gzubgzyw.grugw.dig.fmixgjzxfw
.cgfmigj.ub,gw.dig rx qyzxgmizjwgmzycgzgb.eiugciifgrugbrzdifixgtngz
c..fgrugmirvmf,g .uwrwfruvg.cgwdzyygwf.uiwgyiwwgfmzugzgmiu’wgivvgru
wrei,ghmixigzyygzx.qubgrwgtzxigwzubagZfgcrxwfgn.qgh.ubixgrcgfmigRubrzuw
 .qybgmzsigc.xdibgfmidg.ugfmigr igc.xgzungjqxj.wi,gzubgw.,ghmiugfmigr i
diyfib,gfmingwzupgf.gfmigt.ff.d;gtqfgfmingzxigf..gxivqyzxgzubgw.dig.c
fmidgjyzruyngf..gcxiwmgc.xgfmzfagFmingzxigwrdryzxgf.gfm.wigc.qubgru
xrsixw;gtqfgzwgfmixigzxigu.gwq pixwgu.xgyzdjxinwgmixi,gRgpu.hgu.fgtn
hmzfgcrwmgfming .qybgtigdzbiagJixmzjwgfmingzxigfmiguiwfwg.cgfmig mrsrua
Fmiwigyiubgzgjyizwruvgdnwfixngf.gfmigt.ff.da

Fmigwm.xigrwgrxxivqyzxgiu.qvmgu.fgf.gtigd.u.f.u.qwagRgmzsigrugdngdrub’w
inigfmighiwfixugrubiufibghrfmgbiijgtznw,gfmigt.ybixgu.xfmixu,gzubgfmi
tizqfrcqyyngw zyy.jibgw.qfmixugwm.xi,ghmixigwq  iwwrsig zjiwg.sixyzj
iz mg.fmixgzubgwqvviwfgquiojy.xibg .siwgtifhiiuagFmigc.xiwfgmzwguisix
w.gv..bgzgwiffruv,gu.xgrwgw.gbrwfru fyngtizqfrcqy,gzwghmiugwiiugcx.d
fmigdrbbyig.cgzgwdzyygyzpigzdrbgmryywghmr mgxrwigcx.dgfmighzfix’wgibvi;
c.xgfmighzfixgrughmr mgrfgrwgxicyi fibgu.fg.uyngdzpiwgfmigtiwf
c.xivx.qubgrugwq mgzg zwi,gtqf,ghrfmgrfwghrubruvgwm.xi,gfmigd.wf
uzfqxzygzubgzvxiiztyigt.qubzxngf.grfagFmixigrwgu.gxzhuiwwgu.x
rdjixci fr.ugrugrfwgibvigfmixi,gzwghmixigfmigzoigmzwg yizxibgzgjzxf,g.x
zg qyfrszfibgcriybgztqfwg.ugrfagFmigfxiiwgmzsigzdjyigx..dgf.giojzubg.u
fmighzfixgwrbi,gzubgiz mgwiubwgc.xfmgrfwgd.wfgsrv.x.qwgtxzu mgrugfmzf
brxi fr.uagFmixigUzfqxigmzwgh.siugzguzfqxzygwiyszvi,gzubgfmiginigxrwiw
tngkqwfgvxzbzfr.uwgcx.dgfmigy.hgwmxqtwg.cgfmigwm.xigf.gfmigmrvmiwf
fxiiwagFmixigzxigcihgfxz iwg.cgdzu’wgmzubgf.gtigwiiuagFmighzfixgyzsiw
fmigwm.xigzwgrfgbrbgzgfm.qwzubgnizxwgzv.a

Zgyzpigrwgfmigyzubw zji’wgd.wfgtizqfrcqygzubgiojxiwwrsigcizfqxiagRfgrw
izxfm’wgini;gy..pruvgruf.ghmr mgfmigtim.ybixgdizwqxiwgfmigbijfmg.cgmrw
.huguzfqxiagFmigcyqsrzfryigfxiiwguiofgfmigwm.xigzxigfmigwyiubix
iniyzwmiwghmr mgcxruvigrf,gzubgfmigh..bibgmryywgzubg yrccwgzx.qubgzxi
rfwg.sixmzuvruvgtx.hwa

Wfzubruvg.ugfmigwd..fmgwzubngtiz mgzfgfmigizwfgiubg.cgfmigj.ub,grugz
 zydgWijfidtixgzcfixu..u,ghmiugzgwyrvmfgmzeigdzpiwgfmig.jj.wrfigwm.xi
yruigrubrwfru f,gRgmzsigwiiughmiu ig zdigfmigiojxiwwr.u,g“fmigvyzwwn
wqxcz ig.cgzgyzpia”gHmiugn.qgrusixfgn.qxgmizb,grfgy..pwgyrpigzgfmxizb
.cgcruiwfgv.wwzdixgwfxif mibgz x.wwgfmigszyyin,gzubgvyizdruvgzvzruwf
fmigbrwfzufgjruigh..bw,gwijzxzfruvg.uigwfxzfqdg.cgfmigzfd.wjmixigcx.d
zu.fmixagN.qgh.qybgfmrupgfmzfgn.qg .qybghzypgbxngqubixgrfgf.gfmi
.jj.wrfigmryyw,gzubgfmzfgfmigwhzyy.hwghmr mgwprdg.sixgdrvmfgjix mg.u
rfagRubiib,gfmingw.difrdiwgbrsigtiy.hgfmrwgyrui,gzwgrfghixigtngdrwfzpi,
zubgzxigqubi irsibagZwgn.qgy..pg.sixgfmigj.ubghiwfhzxbgn.qgzxig.tyrvib
f.gidjy.ngt.fmgn.qxgmzubwgf.gbiciubgn.qxginiwgzvzruwfgfmigxicyi fibgzw
hiyygzwgfmigfxqigwqu,gc.xgfmingzxigilqzyyngtxrvmf;gzubgrc,gtifhiiugfmi
fh.,gn.qgwqxsingrfwgwqxcz ig xrfr zyyn,grfgrwgyrfixzyyngzwgwd..fmgzw
vyzww,gio ijfghmixigfmigwpzfixgruwi fw,gzfgilqzygrufixszywgw zffixib
.sixgrfwghm.yigiofiuf,gtngfmirxgd.fr.uwgrugfmigwqugjx.bq igfmigcruiwf
rdzvruztyigwjzxpyig.ugrf,g.x,gjix mzu i,gzgbq pgjyqdiwgrfwiyc,g.x,gzwgR
mzsigwzrb,gzgwhzyy.hgwprdwgw.gy.hgzwgf.gf.q mgrfagRfgdzngtigfmzfgrugfmi
brwfzu igzgcrwmgbiw xrtiwgzugzx g.cgfmxiig.xgc.qxgciifgrugfmigzrx,gzub
fmixigrwg.uigtxrvmfgcyzwmghmixigrfgidixviw,gzubgzu.fmixghmixigrf
wfxrpiwgfmighzfix;gw.difrdiwgfmighm.yigwrysixngzx grwgxisizyib;g.xgmixi
zubgfmixi,gjixmzjw,grwgzgfmrwfyi-b.hugcy.zfruvg.ugrfwgwqxcz i,ghmr m
fmigcrwmiwgbzxfgzfgzubgw.gbrdjyigrfgzvzruagRfgrwgyrpigd.yfiugvyzww
 ..yibgtqfgu.fg .uvizyib,gzubgfmigcihgd.fiwgrugrfgzxigjqxigzub
tizqfrcqygyrpigfmigrdjixci fr.uwgrugvyzwwagN.qgdzng.cfiugbifi fgzgnif
wd..fmixgzubgbzxpixghzfix,gwijzxzfibgcx.dgfmigxiwfgzwgrcgtngzu
rusrwrtyig .thit,gt..dg.cgfmighzfixgundjmw,gxiwfruvg.ugrfagCx.dgz
mryy-f.jgn.qg zugwiigzgcrwmgyizjgrugzyd.wfgzungjzxf;gc.xgu.fgzgjr pixiy
.xgwmruixgjr pwgzugruwi fgcx.dgfmrwgwd..fmgwqxcz igtqfgrfgdzurciwfyn
brwfqxtwgfmigilqryrtxrqdg.cgfmighm.yigyzpiagRfgrwgh.ubixcqyghrfmghmzf
iyzt.xzfiuiwwgfmrwgwrdjyigcz fgrwgzbsixfrwib,—fmrwgjrw ruigdqxbixghryy
.qf,—zubgcx.dgdngbrwfzufgjix mgRgbrwfruvqrwmgfmig rx yruvgqubqyzfr.uw
hmiugfmingzxigmzycgzgb.eiugx.bwgrugbrzdifixagN.qg zugisiugbifi fgz
hzfix-tqvg(_Vnxruqw_)g izwiyiwwyngjx.vxiwwruvg.sixgfmigwd..fmgwqxcz igz
lqzxfixg.cgzgdryig.cc;gc.xgfmingcqxx.hgfmighzfixgwyrvmfyn,gdzpruvgz
 .uwjr q.qwgxrjjyigt.qubibgtngfh.gbrsixvruvgyruiw,gtqfgfmigwpzfixw
vyrbig.sixgrfghrfm.qfgxrjjyruvgrfgjix ijfrtynagHmiugfmigwqxcz igrw
 .uwrbixztyngzvrfzfibgfmixigzxigu.gwpzfixwgu.xghzfix-tqvwg.ugrf,gtqf
zjjzxiufyn,grug zydgbznw,gfmingyizsigfmirxgmzsiuwgzubgzbsiufqx.qwyn
vyrbigc.xfmgcx.dgfmigwm.xigtngwm.xfgrdjqywiwgfryygfming .djyifiyng .six
rfagRfgrwgzgw..fmruvgidjy.ndiuf,g.ug.uig.cgfm.wigcruigbznwgrugfmigczyy
hmiugzyygfmighzxdfmg.cgfmigwqugrwgcqyyngzjjxi rzfib,gf.gwrfg.ugzgwfqdj
.ugwq mgzgmirvmfgzwgfmrw,g.sixy..pruvgfmigj.ub,gzubgwfqbngfmigbrdjyruv
 rx yiwghmr mgzxigru iwwzufyngruw xrtibg.ugrfwg.fmixhrwigrusrwrtyi
wqxcz igzdrbgfmigxicyi fibgwpriwgzubgfxiiwag.sixgfmrwgvxizfgiojzuwi
fmixigrwgu.gbrwfqxtzu igtqfgrfgrwgfmqwgzfg.u igviufyngwd..fmibgzhzngzub
zwwqzvib,gzw,ghmiugzgszwig.cghzfixgrwgkzxxib,gfmigfxidtyruvg rx yiw
wiipgfmigwm.xigzubgzyygrwgwd..fmgzvzruagU.fgzgcrwmg zugyizjg.xgzu
ruwi fgczyyg.ugfmigj.ubgtqfgrfgrwgfmqwgxij.xfibgrug rx yruvgbrdjyiw,gru
yruiwg.cgtizqfn,gzwgrfghixigfmig .uwfzufghiyyruvgqjg.cgrfwgc.qufzru,
fmigviufyigjqywruvg.cgrfwgyrci,gfmigmizsruvg.cgrfwgtxizwfagFmigfmxryyw
.cgk.ngzubgfmxryywg.cgjzrugzxigqubrwfruvqrwmztyiagM.hgjiz icqygfmi
jmiu.diuzg.cgfmigyzpi!gZvzrugfmigh.xpwg.cgdzugwmruigzwgrugfmigwjxruva
Zn,gisixngyizcgzubgfhrvgzubgwf.uigzubg .thitgwjzxpyiwgu.hgzf
drb-zcfixu..ugzwghmiug .sixibghrfmgbihgrugzgwjxruvgd.xuruvagIsixn
d.fr.ug.cgzug.zxg.xgzugruwi fgjx.bq iwgzgcyzwmg.cgyrvmf;gzubgrcgzug.zx
czyyw,gm.hgwhiifgfmigi m.!

Rugwq mgzgbzn,grugWijfidtixg.xg. f.tix,gHzybiugrwgzgjixci fgc.xiwf
drxx.x,gwifgx.qubghrfmgwf.uiwgzwgjxi r.qwgf.gdnginigzwgrcgcihixg.x
xzxixagU.fmruvgw.gczrx,gw.gjqxi,gzubgzfgfmigwzdigfrdigw.gyzxvi,gzwgz
yzpi,gjix mzu i,gyriwg.ugfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmigizxfmagWpnghzfixagRfguiibw
u.gciu iagUzfr.uwg .digzubgv.ghrfm.qfgbicryruvgrfagRfgrwgzgdrxx.xghmr m
u.gwf.uig zug xz p,ghm.wiglqr pwrysixghryyguisixghizxg.cc,ghm.wi
vrybruvgUzfqxig .ufruqzyyngxijzrxw;gu.gwf.xdw,gu.gbqwf,g zugbrdgrfw
wqxcz igisixgcxiwm;—zgdrxx.xgrughmr mgzyygrdjqxrfngjxiwiufibgf.grf
wrupw,gwhijfgzubgbqwfibgtngfmigwqu’wgmzengtxqwm,—fmrwgfmigyrvmf
bqwf- y.fm,—hmr mgxifzruwgu.gtxizfmgfmzfgrwgtxizfmibg.ugrf,gtqfgwiubw
rfwg.hugf.gcy.zfgzwg y.qbwgmrvmgzt.sigrfwgwqxcz i,gzubgtigxicyi fibgru
rfwgt.w.dgwfryya

Zgcriybg.cghzfixgtifxznwgfmigwjrxrfgfmzfgrwgrugfmigzrxagRfgrw
 .ufruqzyyngxi irsruvguihgyrcigzubgd.fr.ugcx.dgzt.siagRfgrw
rufixdibrzfigrugrfwguzfqxigtifhiiugyzubgzubgwpnag.ugyzubg.uyngfmigvxzww
zubgfxiiwghzsi,gtqfgfmighzfixgrfwiycgrwgxrjjyibgtngfmighrubagRgwii
hmixigfmigtxiieigbzwmiwgz x.wwgrfgtngfmigwfxizpwg.xgcyzpiwg.cgyrvmfagRf
rwgxidzxpztyigfmzfghig zugy..pgb.hug.ugrfwgwqxcz iagHigwmzyy,gjixmzjw,
y..pgb.hugfmqwg.ugfmigwqxcz ig.cgzrxgzfgyiuvfm,gzubgdzxpghmixigzgwfryy
wqtfyixgwjrxrfgwhiijwg.sixgrfa

Fmigwpzfixwgzubghzfix-tqvwgcruzyyngbrwzjjizxgrugfmigyzffixgjzxfg.c
. f.tix,ghmiugfmigwisixigcx.wfwgmzsig .di;gzubgfmiugzubgrugU.sidtix,
qwqzyyn,grugzg zydgbzn,gfmixigrwgztw.yqfiyngu.fmruvgf.gxrjjyigfmi
wqxcz iag.uigU.sidtixgzcfixu..u,grugfmig zydgzfgfmigiubg.cgzgxzrugwf.xd
.cgwisixzygbznw’gbqxzfr.u,ghmiugfmigwpnghzwgwfryyg .djyifiyng.six zwf
zubgfmigzrxghzwgcqyyg.cgdrwf,gRg.twixsibgfmzfgfmigj.ubghzwgxidzxpztyn
wd..fm,gw.gfmzfgrfghzwgbrccr qyfgf.gbrwfruvqrwmgrfwgwqxcz i;gfm.qvmgrf
u.gy.uvixgxicyi fibgfmigtxrvmfgfrufwg.cg. f.tix,gtqfgfmigw.dtxi
U.sidtixg .y.xwg.cgfmigwqxx.qubruvgmryywagFm.qvmgRgjzwwibg.sixgrfgzw
viufyngzwgj.wwrtyi,gfmigwyrvmfgqubqyzfr.uwgjx.bq ibgtngdngt.zfgiofiubib
zyd.wfgzwgczxgzwgRg .qybgwii,gzubgvzsigzgxrttibgzjjizxzu igf.gfmi
xicyi fr.uwagTqf,gzwgRghzwgy..pruvg.sixgfmigwqxcz i,gRgwzhgmixigzub
fmixigzfgzgbrwfzu igzgczrufgvyrddix,gzwgrcgw.digwpzfixgruwi fwghmr m
mzbgiw zjibgfmigcx.wfwgdrvmfgtig .yyi fibgfmixi,g.x,gjix mzu i,gfmi
wqxcz i,gtiruvgw.gwd..fm,gtifxznibghmixigzgwjxruvghiyyibgqjgcx.dgfmi
t.ff.dagJzbbyruvgviufyngf.g.uig.cgfmiwigjyz iw,gRghzwgwqxjxrwibgf.gcrub
dnwiycgwqxx.qubibgtngdnxrzbwg.cgwdzyygjix m,gzt.qfgcrsigru miwgy.uv,g.c
zgxr mgtx.ueig .y.xgrugfmigvxiiughzfix,gwj.xfruvgfmixi,gzubg .uwfzufyn
xrwruvgf.gfmigwqxcz igzubgbrdjyruvgrf,gw.difrdiwgyizsruvgtqttyiwg.ugrfa
Rugwq mgfxzuwjzxiufgzubgwiidruvyngt.ff.dyiwwghzfix,gxicyi fruvgfmi
 y.qbw,gRgwiidibgf.gtigcy.zfruvgfmx.qvmgfmigzrxgzwgrugzgtzyy..u,gzub
fmirxgwhrddruvgrdjxiwwibgdigzwgzgprubg.cgcyrvmfg.xgm.sixruv,gzwgrcgfmin
hixigzg .djz fgcy. pg.cgtrxbwgjzwwruvgkqwfgtiuizfmgdngyisiyg.ugfmi
xrvmfg.xgyicf,gfmirxgcruw,gyrpigwzryw,gwifgzyygzx.qubgfmidagFmixighixi
dzungwq mgw m..ywgrugfmigj.ub,gzjjzxiufyngrdjx.sruvgfmigwm.xfgwizw.u
tic.xighrufixgh.qybgbxzhgzugr ngwmqffixg.sixgfmirxgtx.zbgwpnyrvmf,
w.difrdiwgvrsruvgf.gfmigwqxcz igzugzjjizxzu igzwgrcgzgwyrvmfgtxiiei
wfxq pgrf,g.xgzgcihgxzru-bx.jwgciyygfmixiagHmiugRgzjjx.z mibg zxiyiwwyn
zubgzyzxdibgfmid,gfmingdzbigzgwqbbiugwjyzwmgzubgxrjjyruvghrfmgfmirx
fzryw,gzwgrcg.uigmzbgwfxq pgfmighzfixghrfmgzgtxqwmngt.qvm,gzub
ruwfzufyngf..pgxicqvigrugfmigbijfmwagZfgyiuvfmgfmighrubgx.wi,gfmigdrwf
ru xizwib,gzubgfmighzsiwgtivzugf.gxqu,gzubgfmigjix mgyizjibgdq mgmrvmix
fmzugtic.xi,gmzycg.qfg.cghzfix,gzgmqubxibgtyz pgj.rufw,gfmxiigru miw
y.uv,gzfg.u igzt.sigfmigwqxcz iagIsiugzwgyzfigzwgfmigcrcfmg.cgBi idtix,
.uignizx,gRgwzhgw.digbrdjyiwg.ugfmigwqxcz i,gzubgfmrupruvgrfghzwgv.ruv
f.gxzrugmzxbgrddibrzfiyn,gfmigzrxgtiruvgcqyyg.cgdrwf,gRgdzbigmzwfigf.
fzpigdngjyz igzfgfmig.zxwgzubgx.hgm.dihzxb;gzyxizbngfmigxzrugwiidib
xzjrbyngru xizwruv,gfm.qvmgRgciyfgu.uig.ugdng miip,gzubgRgzufr rjzfibgz
fm.x.qvmgw.zpruvagTqfgwqbbiuyngfmigbrdjyiwg izwib,gc.xgfminghixi
jx.bq ibgtngfmigjix m,ghmr mgfmigu.rwig.cgdng.zxwgmzbgwizxibgruf.gfmi
bijfmw,gzubgRgwzhgfmirxgw m..ywgbrdyngbrwzjjizxruv;gw.gRgwjiufgzgbxn
zcfixu..ugzcfixgzyya

Zug.ybgdzughm.gqwibgf.gcxilqiufgfmrwgj.ubguizxyngwrofngnizxwgzv.,ghmiu
rfghzwgbzxpghrfmgwqxx.qubruvgc.xiwfw,gfiyywgdigfmzfgrugfm.wigbznwgmi
w.difrdiwgwzhgrfgzyygzyrsighrfmgbq pwgzubg.fmixghzfixgc.hy,gzubgfmzf
fmixighixigdzungizvyiwgzt.qfgrfagMig zdigmixigz-crwmruv,gzubgqwibgzu
.ybgy.vg zu.ighmr mgmigc.qubg.ugfmigwm.xiagRfghzwgdzbig.cgfh.
hmrfi-jruigy.vwgbqvg.qfgzubgjruuibgf.vifmix,gzubghzwg qfg.ccgwlqzxigzf
fmigiubwagRfghzwgsixng yqdwn,gtqfgyzwfibgzgvxizfgdzungnizxwgtic.xigrf
ti zdighzfix-y.vvibgzubgjixmzjwgwzupgf.gfmigt.ff.dagMigbrbgu.fgpu.h
hm.wigrfghzw;grfgtiy.uvibgf.gfmigj.ubagMigqwibgf.gdzpigzg ztyigc.xgmrw
zu m.xg.cgwfxrjwg.cgmr p.xngtzxpgfribgf.vifmixagZug.ybgdzu,gzgj.ffix,
hm.gyrsibgtngfmigj.ubgtic.xigfmigXis.yqfr.u,gf.ybgmrdg.u igfmzfgfmixi
hzwgzugrx.ug miwfgzfgfmigt.ff.d,gzubgfmzfgmigmzbgwiiugrfagW.difrdiwgrf
h.qybg .digcy.zfruvgqjgf.gfmigwm.xi;gtqfghmiugn.qghiufgf.hzxbgrf,grf
h.qybgv.gtz pgruf.gbiijghzfixgzubgbrwzjjizxagRghzwgjyizwibgf.gmizxg.c
fmig.ybgy.vg zu.i,ghmr mgf..pgfmigjyz ig.cgzugRubrzug.uig.cgfmigwzdi
dzfixrzygtqfgd.xigvxz icqyg .uwfxq fr.u,ghmr mgjix mzu igmzbgcrxwfgtiiu
zgfxiig.ugfmigtzup,gzubgfmiu,gzwgrfghixi,gciyygruf.gfmighzfix,gf.gcy.zf
fmixigc.xgzgviuixzfr.u,gfmigd.wfgjx.jixgsiwwiygc.xgfmigyzpiagRgxididtix
fmzfghmiugRgcrxwfgy..pibgruf.gfmiwigbijfmwgfmixighixigdzungyzxvigfxqupw
f.gtigwiiugrubrwfru fyngynruvg.ugfmigt.ff.d,ghmr mgmzbgirfmixgtiiu
ty.hug.sixgc.xdixyn,g.xgyicfg.ugfmigr igzfgfmigyzwfg qffruv,ghmiugh..b
hzwg mizjix;gtqfgu.hgfmingmzsigd.wfyngbrwzjjizxiba

HmiugRgcrxwfgjzbbyibgzgt.zfg.ugHzybiu,grfghzwg .djyifiyngwqxx.qubibgtn
fmr pgzubgy.cfngjruigzubg.zpgh..bw,gzubgrugw.dig.cgrfwg .siwgvxzji
sruiwgmzbgxqug.sixgfmigfxiiwguiofgfmighzfixgzubgc.xdibgt.hixwgqubix
hmr mgzgt.zfg .qybgjzwwagFmigmryywghmr mgc.xdgrfwgwm.xiwgzxigw.gwfiij,
zubgfmigh..bwg.ugfmidghixigfmiugw.gmrvm,gfmzf,gzwgn.qgy..pibgb.hugcx.d
fmighiwfgiub,grfgmzbgfmigzjjizxzu ig.cgzugzdjmrfmizfxigc.xgw.digprubg.c
wnyszugwji fz yiagRgmzsigwjiufgdzungzugm.qx,ghmiugRghzwgn.quvix,
cy.zfruvg.sixgrfwgwqxcz igzwgfmigeijmnxghryyib,gmzsruvgjzbbyibgdngt.zf
f.gfmigdrbbyi,gzubgynruvg.ugdngtz pgz x.wwgfmigwizfw,grugzgwqddix
c.xiu..u,gbxizdruvgzhzpi,gqufrygRghzwgzx.qwibgtngfmigt.zfgf.q mruvgfmi
wzub,gzubgRgzx.wigf.gwiighmzfgwm.xigdngczfiwgmzbgrdjiyyibgdigf.;gbznw
hmiugrbyiuiwwghzwgfmigd.wfgzffxz frsigzubgjx.bq frsigrubqwfxnagDzungz
c.xiu..ugmzsigRgwf.yiugzhzn,gjxicixxruvgf.gwjiubgfmqwgfmigd.wfgszyqib
jzxfg.cgfmigbzn;gc.xgRghzwgxr m,grcgu.fgrugd.uin,grugwquungm.qxwgzub
wqddixgbznw,gzubgwjiufgfmidgyzsrwmyn;gu.xgb.gRgxivxifgfmzfgRgbrbgu.f
hzwfigd.xig.cgfmidgrugfmigh.xpwm.jg.xgfmigfiz mix’wgbiwpagTqfgwru igR
yicfgfm.wigwm.xiwgfmigh..b m.jjixwgmzsigwfryygcqxfmixgyzrbgfmidghzwfi,
zubgu.hgc.xgdzungzgnizxgfmixighryygtigu.gd.xigxzdtyruvgfmx.qvmgfmi
zrwyiwg.cgfmigh..b,ghrfmg.  zwr.uzygsrwfzwgfmx.qvmghmr mgn.qgwiigfmi
hzfixagDngDqwigdzngtigio qwibgrcgwmigrwgwryiufgmiu ic.xfmagM.hg zugn.q
ioji fgfmigtrxbwgf.gwruvghmiugfmirxgvx.siwgzxig qfgb.hu?

U.hgfmigfxqupwg.cgfxiiwg.ugfmigt.ff.d,gzubgfmig.ybgy.vg zu.i,gzubgfmi
bzxpgwqxx.qubruvgh..bw,gzxigv.ui,gzubgfmigsryyzvixw,ghm.gw zx iyngpu.h
hmixigrfgyriw,gruwfizbg.cgv.ruvgf.gfmigj.ubgf.gtzfmig.xgbxrup,gzxi
fmrupruvgf.gtxruvgrfwghzfix,ghmr mgwm.qybgtigzwgwz xibgzwgfmigVzuviwgzf
yizwf,gf.gfmigsryyzvigrugzgjrji,gf.ghzwmgfmirxgbrwmiwghrfm!—f.gizxu
fmirxgHzybiugtngfmigfqxuruvg.cgzg . pg.xgbxzhruvg.cgzgjyqv!gFmzf
bisryrwmgRx.ugM.xwi,ghm.wigizx-xiubruvguirvmgrwgmizxbgfmx.qvm.qfgfmi
f.hu,gmzwgdqbbribgfmigT.ryruvgWjxruvghrfmgmrwgc..f,gzubgmigrfgrwgfmzf
mzwgtx.hwibg.ccgzyygfmigh..bwg.ugHzybiugwm.xi,gfmzfgFx.kzugm.xwi,ghrfm
zgfm.qwzubgdiugrugmrwgtiyyn,grufx.bq ibgtngdix iuzxngVxiipw!gHmixigrw
fmig .qufxn’wg mzdjr.u,gfmigD..xig.cgD..xigMryy,gf.gdiifgmrdgzfgfmi
Biijg qfgzubgfmxqwfgzugzsiuvruvgyzu igtifhiiugfmigxrtwg.cgfmigty.zfib
jiwf?

Uisixfmiyiww,g.cgzyygfmig mzxz fixwgRgmzsigpu.hu,gjixmzjwgHzybiughizxw
tiwf,gzubgtiwfgjxiwixsiwgrfwgjqxrfnagDzungdiugmzsigtiiugyrpiuibgf.grf,
tqfgcihgbiwixsigfmzfgm.u.xagFm.qvmgfmigh..b m.jjixwgmzsigyzrbgtzxi
crxwfgfmrwgwm.xigzubgfmiugfmzf,gzubgfmigRxrwmgmzsigtqryfgfmirxgwfriwgtn
rf,gzubgfmigxzryx.zbgmzwgrucxruvibg.ugrfwgt.xbix,gzubgfmigr i-diugmzsi
wprddibgrfg.u i,grfgrwgrfwiycgqu mzuvib,gfmigwzdighzfixghmr mgdn
n.qfmcqyginiwgciyyg.u;gzyygfmig mzuvigrwgrugdiagRfgmzwgu.fgz lqrxibg.ui
jixdzuiufghxrupyigzcfixgzyygrfwgxrjjyiwagRfgrwgjixiuurzyyngn.quv,gzubgR
dzngwfzubgzubgwiigzgwhzyy.hgbrjgzjjzxiufyngf.gjr pgzugruwi fgcx.dgrfw
wqxcz igzwg.cgn.xiagRfgwfxq pgdigzvzrugf.urvmf,gzwgrcgRgmzbgu.fgwiiugrf
zyd.wfgbzryngc.xgd.xigfmzugfhiufngnizxw,—Hmn,gmixigrwgHzybiu,gfmigwzdi
h..byzubgyzpigfmzfgRgbrw .sixibgw.gdzungnizxwgzv.;ghmixigzgc.xiwfghzw
 qfgb.hugyzwfghrufixgzu.fmixgrwgwjxruvruvgqjgtngrfwgwm.xigzwgyqwfryngzw
isix;gfmigwzdigfm.qvmfgrwghiyyruvgqjgf.grfwgwqxcz igfmzfghzwgfmiu;grf
rwgfmigwzdigyrlqrbgk.ngzubgmzjjruiwwgf.grfwiycgzubgrfwgDzpix,gzn,gzub
rfg_dzn_gtigf.gdiagRfgrwgfmigh.xpg.cgzgtxzsigdzugwqxiyn,grughm.dgfmixi
hzwgu.gvqryi!gMigx.qubibgfmrwghzfixghrfmgmrwgmzub,gbiijiuibgzub
 yzxrcribgrfgrugmrwgfm.qvmf,gzubgrugmrwghryygtilqizfmibgrfgf.g .u .xba
Rgwiigtngrfwgcz igfmzfgrfgrwgsrwrfibgtngfmigwzdigxicyi fr.u;gzubgRg zu
zyd.wfgwzn,gHzybiu,grwgrfgn.q?

gggggRfgrwgu.gbxizdg.cgdrui,
gggggF.g.xuzdiufgzgyrui;
gggggRg zuu.fg .diguizxixgf.gV.bgzubgMizsiu
gggggFmzugRgyrsigf.gHzybiugisiua
gggggRgzdgrfwgwf.ungwm.xi,
gggggZubgfmigtxiieigfmzfgjzwwiwg.’ix;
gggggRugfmigm.yy.hg.cgdngmzub
gggggZxigrfwghzfixgzubgrfwgwzub,
gggggZubgrfwgbiijiwfgxiw.xf
gggggYriwgmrvmgrugdngfm.qvmfa

Fmig zxwguisixgjzqwigf.gy..pgzfgrf;gnifgRgczu ngfmzfgfmigiuvruiixwgzub
crxidiugzubgtxzpidiu,gzubgfm.wigjzwwiuvixwghm.gmzsigzgwizw.ugfr pifgzub
wiigrfg.cfiu,gzxigtiffixgdiugc.xgfmigwrvmfagFmigiuvruiixgb.iwgu.f
c.xvifgzfgurvmf,g.xgmrwguzfqxigb.iwgu.f,gfmzfgmigmzwgtimiybgfmrwgsrwr.u
.cgwixiurfngzubgjqxrfng.u igzfgyizwfgbqxruvgfmigbznagFm.qvmgwiiugtqf
.u i,grfgmiyjwgf.ghzwmg.qfgWfzfi-wfxiifgzubgfmigiuvrui’wgw..fag.ui
jx.j.wiwgfmzfgrfgtig zyyibg“V.b’wgBx.ja”

RgmzsigwzrbgfmzfgHzybiugmzwgu.gsrwrtyigruyifgu.xg.qfyif,gtqfgrfgrwg.u
fmig.uigmzubgbrwfzufyngzubgrubrxi fyngxiyzfibgf.gCyruf’wgJ.ub,ghmr mgrw
d.xigiyiszfib,gtngzg mzrug.cgwdzyygj.ubwg .druvgcx.dgfmzfglqzxfix,gzub
.ugfmig.fmixgbrxi fyngzubgdzurciwfyngf.g .u .xbgXrsix,ghmr mgrwgy.hix,
tngzgwrdryzxg mzrug.cgj.ubwgfmx.qvmghmr mgrugw.dig.fmixgvi.y.vr zy
jixr.bgrfgdzngmzsigcy.hib,gzubgtngzgyrffyigbrvvruv,ghmr mgV.bgc.xtrb,
rfg zugtigdzbigf.gcy.hgfmrfmixgzvzruagRcgtngyrsruvgfmqwgxiwixsibgzub
zqwfixi,gyrpigzgmixdrfgrugfmigh..bw,gw.gy.uv,grfgmzwgz lqrxibgwq m
h.ubixcqygjqxrfn,ghm.gh.qybgu.fgxivxifgfmzfgfmig .djzxzfrsiyngrdjqxi
hzfixwg.cgCyruf’wgJ.ubgwm.qybgtigdruvyibghrfmgrf,g.xgrfwiycgwm.qybgisix
v.gf.ghzwfigrfwgwhiifuiwwgrugfmig. izughzsi?



Cyruf’w,g.xgWzubngJ.ub,grugYru .yu,g.qxgvxizfiwfgyzpigzubgruyzubgwiz,
yriwgzt.qfgzgdryigizwfg.cgHzybiuagRfgrwgdq mgyzxvix,gtiruvgwzrbgf.
 .ufzrug.uigmqubxibgzubguruifn-wisiugz xiw,gzubgrwgd.xigcixfryigru
crwm;gtqfgrfgrwg .djzxzfrsiyngwmzyy.h,gzubgu.fgxidzxpztyngjqxiagZghzyp
fmx.qvmgfmigh..bwgfmrfmixghzwg.cfiugdngxi xizfr.uagRfghzwgh.xfmgfmi
hmryi,grcg.uyngf.gciiygfmighrubgty.hg.ugn.qxg miipgcxiiyn,gzubgwiigfmi
hzsiwgxqu,gzubgxididtixgfmigyrcig.cgdzxruixwagRghiufgz- miwfuqffruv
fmixigrugfmigczyy,g.ughrubngbznw,ghmiugfmiguqfwghixigbx.jjruvgruf.gfmi
hzfixgzubghixighzwmibgf.gdngciif;gzubg.uigbzn,gzwgRg xijfgzy.uvgrfw
wibvngwm.xi,gfmigcxiwmgwjxzngty.hruvgrugdngcz i,gRg zdigqj.ugfmi
d.qybixruvghxi pg.cgzgt.zf,gfmigwrbiwgv.ui,gzubgmzxbyngd.xigfmzugfmi
rdjxiwwr.ug.cgrfwgcyzfgt.ff.dgyicfgzdrbgfmigxqwmiw;gnifgrfwgd.biyghzw
wmzxjyngbicruib,gzwgrcgrfghixigzgyzxvigbi znibgjzb,ghrfmgrfwgsiruwagRf
hzwgzwgrdjxiwwrsigzghxi pgzwg.uig .qybgrdzvruig.ugfmigwiz-wm.xi,gzub
mzbgzwgv..bgzgd.xzyagRfgrwgtngfmrwgfrdigdixigsivifztyigd.qybgzub
qubrwfruvqrwmztyigj.ubgwm.xi,gfmx.qvmghmr mgxqwmiwgzubgcyzvwgmzsi
jqwmibgqjagRgqwibgf.gzbdrxigfmigxrjjyigdzxpwg.ugfmigwzubngt.ff.d,gzf
fmigu.xfmgiubg.cgfmrwgj.ub,gdzbigcrxdgzubgmzxbgf.gfmigciifg.cgfmighzbix
tngfmigjxiwwqxig.cgfmighzfix,gzubgfmigxqwmiwghmr mgvxihgrugRubrzugcryi,
rughzsruvgyruiw,g .xxiwj.ubruvgf.gfmiwigdzxpw,gxzupgtimrubgxzup,gzwgrc
fmighzsiwgmzbgjyzufibgfmidagFmixigzyw.gRgmzsigc.qub,grug .uwrbixztyi
lqzufrfriw,g qxr.qwgtzyyw,g .dj.wibgzjjzxiufyng.cgcruigvxzwwg.xgx..fw,
.cgjrjih.xfgjixmzjw,gcx.dgmzycgzugru mgf.gc.qxgru miwgrugbrzdifix,gzub
jixci fyngwjmixr zyagFmiwighzwmgtz pgzubgc.xfmgrugwmzyy.hghzfixg.ugz
wzubngt.ff.d,gzubgzxigw.difrdiwg zwfg.ugfmigwm.xiagFmingzxigirfmix
w.yrbgvxzww,g.xgmzsigzgyrffyigwzubgrugfmigdrbbyiagZfgcrxwfgn.qgh.qyb
wzngfmzfgfminghixigc.xdibgtngfmigz fr.ug.cgfmighzsiw,gyrpigzgjittyi;
nifgfmigwdzyyiwfgzxigdzbig.cgilqzyyng .zxwigdzfixrzyw,gmzycgzugru m
y.uv,gzubgfmingzxigjx.bq ibg.uyngzfg.uigwizw.ug.cgfmignizxagD.xi.six,
fmighzsiw,gRgwqwji f,gb.gu.fgw.gdq mg .uwfxq fgzwghizxgb.hugzgdzfixrzy
hmr mgmzwgzyxizbngz lqrxibg .uwrwfiu nagFmingjxiwixsigfmirxgc.xdghmiu
bxngc.xgzugrubicrurfigjixr.ba

_Cyruf’wgJ.ub!_gWq mgrwgfmigj.sixfng.cg.qxgu.diu yzfqxiagHmzfgxrvmfgmzb
fmigqu yizugzubgwfqjrbgczxdix,ghm.wigczxdgztqffibg.ugfmrwgwpnghzfix,
hm.wigwm.xiwgmigmzwgxqfmyiwwyngyzrbgtzxi,gf.gvrsigmrwguzdigf.grf?gW.di
wpru-cyruf,ghm.gy.sibgtiffixgfmigxicyi fruvgwqxcz ig.cgzgb.yyzx,g.xgz
txrvmfg iuf,grughmr mgmig .qybgwiigmrwg.hugtxzeiugcz i;ghm.gxivzxbib
isiugfmighrybgbq pwghmr mgwiffyibgrugrfgzwgfxiwjzwwixw;gmrwgcruvixw
vx.hugruf.g x..pibgzubgm.xungfzy.uwgcx.dgfmigy.uvgmztrfg.cgvxzwjruv
mzxjn-yrpi;—w.grfgrwgu.fguzdibgc.xgdiagRgv.gu.fgfmixigf.gwiigmrdgu.xgf.
mizxg.cgmrd;ghm.guisixg_wzh_grf,ghm.guisixgtzfmibgrugrf,ghm.guisix
y.sibgrf,ghm.guisixgjx.fi fibgrf,ghm.guisixgwj.pigzgv..bgh.xbgc.xgrf,
u.xgfmzupibgV.bgfmzfgmigmzbgdzbigrfagXzfmixgyifgrfgtiguzdibgcx.dgfmi
crwmiwgfmzfgwhrdgrugrf,gfmighrybgc.hyg.xglqzbxqjibwghmr mgcxilqiufgrf,
fmighrybgcy.hixwghmr mgvx.hgtngrfwgwm.xiw,g.xgw.dighrybgdzug.xg mryb
fmigfmxizbg.cghm.wigmrwf.xngrwgrufixh.siughrfmgrfwg.hu;gu.fgcx.dgmrd
hm.g .qybgwm.hgu.gfrfyigf.grfgtqfgfmigbiibghmr mgzgyrpi-drubibguirvmt.x
.xgyivrwyzfqxigvzsigmrd,—mrdghm.gfm.qvmfg.uyng.cgrfwgd.uingszyqi;ghm.wi
jxiwiu igjix mzu ig qxwibgzyygfmigwm.xi;ghm.giomzqwfibgfmigyzubgzx.qub
rf,gzubgh.qybgczrugmzsigiomzqwfibgfmighzfixwghrfmrugrf;ghm.gxivxiffib
.uyngfmzfgrfghzwgu.fgIuvyrwmgmzng.xg xzutixxngdizb.h,—fmixighzwgu.fmruv
f.gxibiidgrf,gc.xw..fm,grugmrwginiw,—zubgh.qybgmzsigbxzruibgzubgw.ybgrf
c.xgfmigdqbgzfgrfwgt.ff.dagRfgbrbgu.fgfqxugmrwgdryy,gzubgrfghzwgu.
_jxrsryivi_gf.gmrdgf.gtim.ybgrfagRgxiwji fgu.fgmrwgyzt.xw,gmrwgczxd
hmixigisixngfmruvgmzwgrfwgjxr i;ghm.gh.qybg zxxngfmigyzubw zji,ghm.
h.qybg zxxngmrwgV.b,gf.gdzxpif,grcgmig .qybgvifgzungfmruvgc.xgmrd;ghm.
v.iwgf.gdzxpifg_c.x_gmrwgv.bgzwgrfgrw;g.ughm.wigczxdgu.fmruvgvx.hw
cxii,ghm.wigcriybwgtizxgu.g x.jw,ghm.wigdizb.hwgu.gcy.hixw,ghm.wigfxiiw
u.gcxqrfw,gtqfgb.yyzxw;ghm.gy.siwgu.fgfmigtizqfng.cgmrwgcxqrfw,ghm.wi
cxqrfwgzxigu.fgxrjigc.xgmrdgfryygfmingzxigfqxuibgf.gb.yyzxwagVrsigdi
fmigj.sixfngfmzfgiuk.nwgfxqighizyfmagCzxdixwgzxigxiwji fztyigzub
rufixiwfruvgf.gdigrugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgfmingzxigj..x,—j..xgczxdixwagZgd.biy
czxd!ghmixigfmigm.qwigwfzubwgyrpigzgcquvqwgrugzgdq p-mizj,g mzdtixwgc.x
diu,gm.xwiw,g.oiu,gzubgwhrui,g yizuwibgzubgqu yizuwib,gzyyg .ufrvq.qw
f.g.uigzu.fmix!gWf. pibghrfmgdiu!gZgvxizfgvxizwi-wj.f,gxib.yiufg.c
dzuqxiwgzubgtqffixdryp!gQubixgzgmrvmgwfzfig.cg qyfrszfr.u,gtiruv
dzuqxibghrfmgfmigmizxfwgzubgtxzruwg.cgdiu!gZwgrcgn.qghixigf.gxzrwign.qx
j.fzf.iwgrugfmig mqx m-nzxb!gWq mgrwgzgd.biygczxda

U.,gu.;grcgfmigczrxiwfgcizfqxiwg.cgfmigyzubw zjigzxigf.gtiguzdibgzcfix
diu,gyifgfmidgtigfmigu.tyiwfgzubgh.xfmriwfgdiugzy.uiagYifg.qxgyzpiw
xi irsigzwgfxqiguzdiwgzfgyizwfgzwgfmigR zxrzugWiz,ghmixig“wfryygfmi
wm.xi”gzg“txzsigzffidjfgxiw.qubwa”



V..wigJ.ub,g.cgwdzyygiofiuf,grwg.ugdnghzngf.gCyruf’w;gCzrx-Mzsiu,gzu
iojzuwr.ug.cg .u .xbgXrsix,gwzrbgf.g .ufzrugw.digwisiufngz xiw,grwgz
dryigw.qfm-hiwf;gzubgHmrfigJ.ub,g.cgzt.qfgc.xfngz xiw,grwgzgdryigzubgz
mzycgtin.ubgCzrx-MzsiuagFmrwgrwgdngyzpig .qufxnagFmiwi,ghrfmg .u .xb
Xrsix,gzxigdnghzfixgjxrsryiviw;gzubgurvmfgzubgbzn,gnizxgrugnizxg.qf,
fmingvxrubgwq mgvxrwfgzwgRg zxxngf.gfmida

Wru igfmigh..b qffixw,gzubgfmigxzryx.zb,gzubgRgdnwiycgmzsigjx.czuib
Hzybiu,gjixmzjwgfmigd.wfgzffxz frsi,grcgu.fgfmigd.wfgtizqfrcqy,g.cgzyy
.qxgyzpiw,gfmigvidg.cgfmigh..bw,grwgHmrfigJ.ub;—zgj..xguzdigcx.dgrfw
 .dd.uuiww,ghmifmixgbixrsibgcx.dgfmigxidzxpztyigjqxrfng.cgrfwghzfixwg.x
fmig .y.xg.cgrfwgwzubwagRugfmiwigzwgrug.fmixgxiwji fw,gm.hisix,grfgrwgz
yiwwixgfhrug.cgHzybiuagFmingzxigw.gdq mgzyrpigfmzfgn.qgh.qybgwzngfmin
dqwfgtig .uui fibgqubixgvx.qubagRfgmzwgfmigwzdigwf.ungwm.xi,gzubgrfw
hzfixwgzxig.cgfmigwzdigmqiagZwgzfgHzybiu,grugwqyfxngb.v-bznghizfmix,
y..pruvgb.hugfmx.qvmgfmigh..bwg.ugw.dig.cgrfwgtznwghmr mgzxigu.fgw.
biijgtqfgfmzfgfmigxicyi fr.ugcx.dgfmigt.ff.dgfruviwgfmid,grfwghzfixw
zxig.cgzgdrwfngtyqrwm-vxiiug.xgvyzq .qwg .y.xagDzungnizxwgwru igRgqwib
f.gv.gfmixigf.g .yyi fgfmigwzubgtng zxf-y.zbw,gf.gdzpigwzub-jzjixghrfm,
zubgRgmzsig .ufruqibgf.gsrwrfgrfgisixgwru iag.uighm.gcxilqiufwgrf
jx.j.wiwgf.g zyygrfgSrxrbgYzpiagJixmzjwgrfgdrvmfgtig zyyibgNiyy.h-Jrui
Yzpi,gcx.dgfmigc.yy.hruvg rx qdwfzu iagZt.qfgcrcfiiugnizxwgzv.gn.q
 .qybgwiigfmigf.jg.cgzgjrf m-jrui,g.cgfmigprubg zyyibgniyy.h-jrui
mixizt.qfw,gfm.qvmgrfgrwgu.fgzgbrwfru fgwji riw,gjx.ki fruvgzt.sigfmi
wqxcz igrugbiijghzfix,gdzungx.bwgcx.dgfmigwm.xiagRfghzwgisiugwqjj.wib
tngw.digfmzfgfmigj.ubgmzbgwqup,gzubgfmrwghzwg.uig.cgfmigjxrdrfrsi
c.xiwfgfmzfgc.xdixyngwf..bgfmixiagRgcrubgfmzfgisiugw.gy.uvgzv.gzwg1792,
rugzg“F.j.vxzjmr zygBiw xrjfr.ug.cgfmigF.hug.cg .u .xb,”gtng.uig.cgrfw
 rfreiuw,grugfmig .yyi fr.uwg.cgfmigDzwwz mqwiffwgMrwf.xr zygW. rifn,
fmigzqfm.x,gzcfixgwjizpruvg.cgHzybiugzubgHmrfigJ.ubw,gzbbw:g“Rugfmi
drbbyig.cgfmigyzffixgdzngtigwiiu,ghmiugfmighzfixgrwgsixngy.h,gzgfxii
hmr mgzjjizxwgzwgrcgrfgvxihgrugfmigjyz ighmixigrfgu.hgwfzubw,gzyfm.qvm
fmigx..fwgzxigcrcfngciifgtiy.hgfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmighzfix;gfmigf.jg.c
fmrwgfxiigrwgtx.piug.cc,gzubgzfgfmzfgjyz igdizwqxiwgc.qxfiiugru miwgru
brzdifixa”gRugfmigwjxruvg.cg’49gRgfzypibghrfmgfmigdzughm.gyrsiwguizxiwf
fmigj.ubgrugWqbtqxn,ghm.gf.ybgdigfmzfgrfghzwgmighm.gv.fg.qfgfmrwgfxii
fiug.xgcrcfiiugnizxwgtic.xiagZwguizxgzwgmig .qybgxididtix,grfgwf..b
fhiysig.xgcrcfiiugx.bwgcx.dgfmigwm.xi,ghmixigfmighzfixghzwgfmrxfng.x
c.xfngciifgbiijagRfghzwgrugfmighrufix,gzubgmigmzbgtiiugviffruvg.qfgr i
rugfmigc.xiu..u,gzubgmzbgxiw.ysibgfmzfgrugfmigzcfixu..u,ghrfmgfmigzrb
.cgmrwguirvmt.xw,gmigh.qybgfzpig.qfgfmig.ybgniyy.h-jruiagMigwzhibgz
 mzuuiygrugfmigr igf.hzxbgfmigwm.xi,gzubgmzqyibgrfg.sixgzubgzy.uvgzub
.qfg.ugf.gfmigr ighrfmg.oiu;gtqf,gtic.xigmigmzbgv.uigczxgrugmrwgh.xp,
mighzwgwqxjxrwibgf.gcrubgfmzfgrfghzwghx.uvgiubgqjhzxb,ghrfmgfmigwfqdjw
.cgfmigtxzu miwgj.rufruvgb.hu,gzubgfmigwdzyygiubgcrxdyngczwfiuibgrugfmi
wzubngt.ff.dagRfghzwgzt.qfgzgc..fgrugbrzdifixgzfgfmigtrvgiub,gzubgmi
mzbgioji fibgf.gvifgzgv..bgwzh-y.v,gtqfgrfghzwgw.gx.ffiugzwgf.gtigcrf
.uyngc.xgcqiy,grcgc.xgfmzfagMigmzbgw.dig.cgrfgrugmrwgwmibgfmiuagFmixi
hixigdzxpwg.cgzugzoigzubg.cgh..bji pixwg.ugfmigtqffagMigfm.qvmfgfmzfgrf
drvmfgmzsigtiiugzgbizbgfxiig.ugfmigwm.xi,gtqfghzwgcruzyyngty.hug.six
ruf.gfmigj.ub,gzubgzcfixgfmigf.jgmzbgti .dighzfixy.vvib,ghmryigfmi
tqff-iubghzwgwfryygbxngzubgyrvmf,gmzbgbxrcfibg.qfgzubgwqupghx.uvgiub
qjagMrwgczfmix,girvmfngnizxwg.yb,g .qybgu.fgxididtixghmiugrfghzwgu.f
fmixiagWisixzygjxiffngyzxvigy.vwgdzngwfryygtigwiiugynruvg.ugfmigt.ff.d,
hmixi,g.hruvgf.gfmigqubqyzfr.ug.cgfmigwqxcz i,gfmingy..pgyrpigmqvi
hzfixgwuzpiwgrugd.fr.ua

Fmrwgj.ubgmzwgxzxiyngtiiugjx.czuibgtngzgt.zf,gc.xgfmixigrwgyrffyigrugrf
f.gfidjfgzgcrwmixdzuagRuwfizbg.cgfmighmrfigyryn,ghmr mgxilqrxiwgdqb,g.x
fmig .dd.ugwhiifgcyzv,gfmigtyqigcyzvg(_Rxrwgsixwr .y.x_)gvx.hwgfmruyn
rugfmigjqxighzfix,gxrwruvgcx.dgfmigwf.ungt.ff.dgzyygzx.qubgfmigwm.xi,
hmixigrfgrwgsrwrfibgtngmqddruvgtrxbwgrugKqui;gzubgfmig .y.xgt.fmg.cgrfw
tyqrwmgtyzbiwgzubgrfwgcy.hixw,gzubgiwji rzyyngfmirxgxicyi fr.uw,gzxigru
wruvqyzxgmzxd.unghrfmgfmigvyzq .qwghzfixa

HmrfigJ.ubgzubgHzybiugzxigvxizfg xnwfzywg.ugfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmigizxfm,
Yzpiwg.cgYrvmfagRcgfminghixigjixdzuiufyng .uvizyib,gzubgwdzyygiu.qvmgf.
tig yqf mib,gfmingh.qyb,gjix mzu i,gtig zxxribg.ccgtngwyzsiw,gyrpi
jxi r.qwgwf.uiw,gf.gzb.xugfmigmizbwg.cgidjix.xw;gtqfgtiruvgyrlqrb,gzub
zdjyi,gzubgwi qxibgf.gqwgzubg.qxgwq  iww.xwgc.xisix,ghigbrwxivzxbgfmid,
zubgxqugzcfixgfmigbrzd.ubg.cgP.mru..xagFmingzxigf..gjqxigf.gmzsigz
dzxpifgszyqi;gfming .ufzrugu.gdq pagM.hgdq mgd.xigtizqfrcqygfmzug.qx
yrsiw,gm.hgdq mgd.xigfxzuwjzxiufgfmzug.qxg mzxz fixw,gzxigfmin!gHi
uisixgyizxuibgdizuuiwwg.cgfmidagM.hgdq mgczrxixgfmzugfmigj..ygtic.xi
fmigczxdix’wgb..x,grughmr mgmrwgbq pwgwhrd!gMrfmixgfmig yizughrybgbq pw
 .diagUzfqxigmzwgu.gmqdzugrumztrfzufghm.gzjjxi rzfiwgmixagFmigtrxbw
hrfmgfmirxgjyqdzvigzubgfmirxgu.fiwgzxigrugmzxd.unghrfmgfmigcy.hixw,gtqf
hmzfgn.qfmg.xgdzrbiug .uwjrxiwghrfmgfmighrybgyqoqxrzufgtizqfng.c
Uzfqxi?gWmigcy.qxrwmiwgd.wfgzy.ui,gczxgcx.dgfmigf.huwghmixigfmin
xiwrbiagFzypg.cgmizsiu!gnigbrwvxz igizxfma


TzpixgCzxd

W.difrdiwgRgxzdtyibgf.gjruigvx.siw,gwfzubruvgyrpigfidjyiw,g.xgyrpi
cyiifwgzfgwiz,gcqyy-xrvvib,ghrfmghzsngt.qvmw,gzubgxrjjyruvghrfmgyrvmf,
w.gw.cfgzubgvxiiugzubgwmzbngfmzfgfmigBxqrbwgh.qybgmzsigc.xwzpiugfmirx
.zpwgf.gh.xwmrjgrugfmid;g.xgf.gfmig ibzxgh..bgtin.ubgCyruf’wgJ.ub,
hmixigfmigfxiiw,g .sixibghrfmgm.zxngtyqigtixxriw,gwjrxruvgmrvmixgzub
mrvmix,gzxigcrfgf.gwfzubgtic.xigSzymzyyz,gzubgfmig xiijruvgkqurjix
 .sixwgfmigvx.qubghrfmghxizfmwgcqyyg.cgcxqrf;g.xgf.gwhzdjwghmixigfmi
qwuizgyr miugmzuvwgrugciwf..uwgcx.dgfmighmrfi-wjxq igfxiiw,gzub
f.zb-wf..yw,gx.qubgfztyiwg.cgfmigwhzdjgv.bw,g .sixgfmigvx.qub,gzubgd.xi
tizqfrcqygcquvrgzb.xugfmigwfqdjw,gyrpigtqffixcyriwg.xgwmiyyw,gsivifztyi
hrupyiw;ghmixigfmigwhzdj-jrupgzubgb.vh..bgvx.h,gfmigxibgzybix-tixxn
vy.hwgyrpiginiwg.cgrdjw,gfmighzoh.xpgvx..siwgzubg xqwmiwgfmigmzxbiwf
h..bwgrugrfwgc.ybw,gzubgfmighryb-m.yyngtixxriwgdzpigfmigtim.ybixgc.xvif
mrwgm.dighrfmgfmirxgtizqfn,gzubgmigrwgbzeeyibgzubgfidjfibgtnguzdiyiww
.fmixghrybgc.xtrbbiugcxqrfw,gf..gczrxgc.xgd.xfzygfzwfiagRuwfizbg.c
 zyyruvg.ugw.digw m.yzx,gRgjzrbgdzungzgsrwrfgf.gjzxfr qyzxgfxiiw,g.c
prubwghmr mgzxigxzxigrugfmrwguirvmt.xm..b,gwfzubruvgczxgzhzngrugfmi
drbbyig.cgw.digjzwfqxi,g.xgrugfmigbijfmwg.cgzgh..bg.xgwhzdj,g.xg.ugz
mryy-f.j;gwq mgzwgfmigtyz p-trx m,g.cghmr mghigmzsigw.digmzubw.di
wji rdiuwgfh.gciifgrugbrzdifix;grfwg .qwru,gfmigniyy.hgtrx m,ghrfmgrfw
y..wigv.ybiugsiwf,gjixcqdibgyrpigfmigcrxwf;gfmigtii m,ghmr mgmzwgw.
uizfgzgt.yigzubgtizqfrcqyyngyr miu-jzrufib,gjixci fgrugzyygrfwgbifzryw,
.cghmr m,gio ijfruvgw zffixibgwji rdiuw,gRgpu.hgtqfg.uigwdzyygvx.sig.c
wreztyigfxiiwgyicfgrugfmigf.huwmrj,gwqjj.wibgtngw.digf.gmzsigtiiu
jyzufibgtngfmigjrvi.uwgfmzfghixig.u igtzrfibghrfmgtii mguqfwguizxgtn;
rfgrwgh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gwiigfmigwrysixgvxzrugwjzxpyighmiugn.qgwjyrf
fmrwgh..b;gfmigtzww;gfmigm.xutizd;gfmig_ iyfrwg.  rbiufzyrw_,g.xgczywi
iyd,g.cghmr mghigmzsigtqfg.uighiyy-vx.hu;gw.digfzyyixgdzwfg.cgzgjrui,gz
wmruvyigfxii,g.xgzgd.xigjixci fgmidy. pgfmzugqwqzy,gwfzubruvgyrpigz
jzv.bzgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgfmigh..bw;gzubgdzung.fmixwgRg .qybgdiufr.ua
FmiwighixigfmigwmxruiwgRgsrwrfibgt.fmgwqddixgzubghrufixa

.u igrfg mzu ibgfmzfgRgwf..bgrugfmigsixngztqfdiufg.cgzgxzrut.h’wgzx m,
hmr mgcryyibgfmigy.hixgwfxzfqdg.cgfmigzfd.wjmixi,gfruvruvgfmigvxzwwgzub
yizsiwgzx.qub,gzubgbzeeyruvgdigzwgrcgRgy..pibgfmx.qvmg .y.xibg xnwfzya
Rfghzwgzgyzpig.cgxzrut.hgyrvmf,grughmr m,gc.xgzgwm.xfghmryi,gRgyrsib
yrpigzgb.yjmruagRcgrfgmzbgyzwfibgy.uvixgrfgdrvmfgmzsigfruvibgdn
idjy.ndiufwgzubgyrciagZwgRghzypibg.ugfmigxzryx.zbg zqwihzn,gRgqwibgf.
h.ubixgzfgfmigmzy.g.cgyrvmfgzx.qubgdngwmzb.h,gzubgh.qybgczrugczu n
dnwiycg.uig.cgfmigiyi fag.uighm.gsrwrfibgdigbi yzxibgfmzfgfmigwmzb.hw
.cgw.digRxrwmdiugtic.xigmrdgmzbgu.gmzy.gzt.qfgfmid,gfmzfgrfghzwg.uyn
uzfrsiwgfmzfghixigw.gbrwfruvqrwmibagTiusiuqf.g iyyrurgfiyywgqwgrugmrw
did.rxw,gfmzf,gzcfixgzg ixfzrugfixxrtyigbxizdg.xgsrwr.ughmr mgmigmzb
bqxruvgmrwg .ucruidiufgrugfmig zwfyig.cgWfagZuviy.,gzgxiwjyiubiufgyrvmf
zjjizxibg.sixgfmigwmzb.hg.cgmrwgmizbgzfgd.xuruvgzubgisiuruv,ghmifmixgmi
hzwgrugRfzyng.xgCxzu i,gzubgrfghzwgjzxfr qyzxyng .uwjr q.qwghmiugfmi
vxzwwghzwgd.rwfghrfmgbihagFmrwghzwgjx.tztyngfmigwzdigjmiu.diu.ugf.
hmr mgRgmzsigxicixxib,ghmr mgrwgiwji rzyyng.twixsibgrugfmigd.xuruv,gtqf
zyw.gzfg.fmixgfrdiw,gzubgisiugtngd..uyrvmfagFm.qvmgzg .uwfzufg.ui,grf
rwgu.fg .dd.uyngu.fr ib,gzub,grugfmig zwig.cgzugio rfztyigrdzvruzfr.u
yrpig iyyrur’w,grfgh.qybgtigtzwrwgiu.qvmgc.xgwqjixwfrfr.uagTiwrbi,gmi
fiyywgqwgfmzfgmigwm.hibgrfgf.gsixngcihagTqfgzxigfmingu.fgrubiib
brwfruvqrwmibghm.gzxig .uw r.qwgfmzfgfmingzxigxivzxbibgzfgzyy?



Rgwifg.qfg.uigzcfixu..ugf.gv.gz-crwmruvgf.gCzrx-Mzsiu,gfmx.qvmgfmi
h..bw,gf.gipig.qfgdngw zufngczxig.cgsivifztyiwagDnghzngyibgfmx.qvm
JyizwzufgDizb.h,gzugzbkqu fg.cgfmigTzpixgCzxd,gfmzfgxifxizfg.cghmr mgz
j.ifgmzwgwru igwquv,gtivruuruv,—

ggggg“Fmngiufxngrwgzgjyizwzufgcriyb,
gggggHmr mgw.digd.wwngcxqrfgfxiiwgnriyb
gggggJzxfyngf.gzgxqbbngtx..p,
gggggTngvyrbruvgdqwlqzwmgqubixf..p,
gggggZubgdix qxrzygfx.qf,
gggggBzxfruvgzt.qfa”

Rgfm.qvmfg.cgyrsruvgfmixigtic.xigRghiufgf.gHzybiuagRg“m..pib”gfmi
zjjyiw,gyizjibgfmigtx..p,gzubgw zxibgfmigdqwlqzwmgzubgfmigfx.qfagRfghzw
.uig.cgfm.wigzcfixu..uwghmr mgwiidgrubicrurfiyngy.uvgtic.xig.ui,gru
hmr mgdzungisiufwgdzngmzjjiu,gzgyzxvigj.xfr.ug.cg.qxguzfqxzygyrci,
fm.qvmgrfghzwgzyxizbngmzycgwjiufghmiugRgwfzxfibagTngfmighzngfmixig zdi
qjgzgwm.hix,ghmr mg .djiyyibgdigf.gwfzubgmzycgzugm.qxgqubixgzgjrui,
jryruvgt.qvmwg.sixgdngmizb,gzubghizxruvgdngmzubpix mricgc.xgzgwmib;gzub
hmiugzfgyiuvfmgRgmzbgdzbig.uig zwfg.sixgfmigjr pixiy-hiib,gwfzubruvgqj
f.gdngdrbbyigrughzfix,gRgc.qubgdnwiycgwqbbiuyngrugfmigwmzb.hg.cgz
 y.qb,gzubgfmigfmqubixgtivzugf.gxqdtyighrfmgwq mgidjmzwrwgfmzfgRg .qyb
b.gu.gd.xigfmzugyrwfiugf.grfagFmigv.bwgdqwfgtigjx.qb,gfm.qvmfgR,ghrfm
wq mgc.xpibgcyzwmiwgf.gx.qfgzgj..xgquzxdibgcrwmixdzuagW.gRgdzbigmzwfi
c.xgwmiyfixgf.gfmiguizxiwfgmqf,ghmr mgwf..bgmzycgzgdryigcx.dgzungx.zb,
tqfgw.gdq mgfmiguizxixgf.gfmigj.ub,gzubgmzbgy.uvgtiiugqurumztrfib:—

ggggg“Zubgmixigzgj.ifgtqrybib,
gggggggggRugfmig .djyifibgnizxw,
gggggC.xgtim.ybgzgfxrsrzyg ztru
gggggggggFmzfgf.gbiwfxq fr.ugwfiixwa”

W.gfmigDqwigcztyiwagTqfgfmixiru,gzwgRgc.qub,gbhiyfgu.hgK.mugCriyb,gzu
Rxrwmdzu,gzubgmrwghrci,gzubgwisixzyg mrybxiu,gcx.dgfmigtx.zb-cz ibgt.n
hm.gzwwrwfibgmrwgczfmixgzfgmrwgh.xp,gzubgu.hg zdigxquuruvgtngmrwgwrbi
cx.dgfmigt.vgf.giw zjigfmigxzru,gf.gfmighxrupyib,gwrtny-yrpi,
 .ui-mizbibgruczufgfmzfgwzfgqj.ugrfwgczfmix’wgpuiigzwgrugfmigjzyz iwg.c
u.tyiw,gzubgy..pibg.qfgcx.dgrfwgm.digrugfmigdrbwfg.cghifgzubgmquvix
rulqrwrfrsiyngqj.ugfmigwfxzuvix,ghrfmgfmigjxrsryivig.cgruczu n,gu.f
pu.hruvgtqfgrfghzwgfmigyzwfg.cgzgu.tyigyrui,gzubgfmigm.jigzubg nu.wqxi
.cgfmigh.xyb,gruwfizbg.cgK.mugCriyb’wgj..xgwfzxsiyruvgtxzfagFmixighi
wzfgf.vifmixgqubixgfmzfgjzxfg.cgfmigx..cghmr mgyizpibgfmigyizwf,ghmryi
rfgwm.hixibgzubgfmqubixibghrfm.qfagRgmzbgwzfgfmixigdzungfrdiwg.cg.yb
tic.xigfmigwmrjghzwgtqryfgfmzfgcy.zfibgmrwgczdryngf.gZdixr zagZu
m.uiwf,gmzxb-h.xpruv,gtqfgwmrcfyiwwgdzugjyzruynghzwgK.mugCriyb;gzubgmrw
hrci,gwmigf..ghzwgtxzsigf.g ..pgw.gdzungwq  iwwrsigbruuixwgrugfmi
xi iwwiwg.cgfmzfgy.cfngwf.si;ghrfmgx.qubgvxizwngcz igzubgtzxigtxizwf,
wfryygfmrupruvgf.grdjx.sigmixg .ubrfr.ug.uigbzn;ghrfmgfmiguisixgztwiuf
d.jgrug.uigmzub,gzubgnifgu.gicci fwg.cgrfgsrwrtyigzunhmixiagFmi
 mr piuw,ghmr mgmzbgzyw.gfzpiugwmiyfixgmixigcx.dgfmigxzru,gwfzypib
zt.qfgfmigx..dgyrpigdidtixwg.cgfmigczdryn,gf..gmqdzureibgdifm.qvmfgf.
x.zwfghiyyagFmingwf..bgzubgy..pibgrugdnginig.xgji pibgzfgdngwm.i
wrvurcr zufynagDizuhmryigdngm.wfgf.ybgdigmrwgwf.xn,gm.hgmzxbgmigh.xpib
“t.vvruv”gc.xgzguirvmt.xruvgczxdix,gfqxuruvgqjgzgdizb.hghrfmgzgwjzbig.x
t.vgm.igzfgfmigxzfig.cgfiugb.yyzxwgzugz xigzubgfmigqwig.cgfmigyzubghrfm
dzuqxigc.xg.uignizx,gzubgmrwgyrffyigtx.zb-cz ibgw.ugh.xpibg miixcqyyn
zfgmrwgczfmix’wgwrbigfmighmryi,gu.fgpu.hruvgm.hgj..xgzgtzxvzrugfmi
yzffixgmzbgdzbiagRgfxribgf.gmiyjgmrdghrfmgdngiojixriu i,gfiyyruvgmrd
fmzfgmighzwg.uig.cgdnguizxiwfguirvmt.xw,gzubgfmzfgRgf..,ghm.g zdi
z-crwmruvgmixi,gzubgy..pibgyrpigzgy.zcix,ghzwgviffruvgdngyrsruvgyrpi
mrdwiyc;gfmzfgRgyrsibgrugzgfrvmf,gyrvmf,gzubg yizugm.qwi,ghmr mgmzxbyn
 .wfgd.xigfmzugfmigzuuqzygxiufg.cgwq mgzgxqrugzwgmrwg .dd.uyngzd.qufw
f.;gzubgm.h,grcgmig m.wi,gmigdrvmfgrugzgd.ufmg.xgfh.gtqrybgmrdwiycgz
jzyz ig.cgmrwg.hu;gfmzfgRgbrbgu.fgqwigfiz,gu.xg .ccii,gu.xgtqffix,gu.x
dryp,gu.xgcxiwmgdizf,gzubgw.gbrbgu.fgmzsigf.gh.xpgf.gvifgfmid;gzvzru,
zwgRgbrbgu.fgh.xpgmzxb,gRgbrbgu.fgmzsigf.gizfgmzxb,gzubgrfg .wfgdigtqf
zgfxrcyigc.xgdngc..b;gtqfgzwgmigtivzughrfmgfiz,gzubg .ccii,gzubgtqffix,
zubgdryp,gzubgtiic,gmigmzbgf.gh.xpgmzxbgf.gjzngc.xgfmid,gzubghmiugmi
mzbgh.xpibgmzxbgmigmzbgf.gizfgmzxbgzvzrugf.gxijzrxgfmighzwfig.cgmrw
wnwfid,—zubgw.grfghzwgzwgtx.zbgzwgrfghzwgy.uv,grubiibgrfghzwgtx.zbix
fmzugrfghzwgy.uv,gc.xgmighzwgbrw .ufiufibgzubghzwfibgmrwgyrcigruf.gfmi
tzxvzru;gzubgnifgmigmzbgxzfibgrfgzwgzgvzrugrug .druvgf.gZdixr z,gfmzf
mixign.qg .qybgvifgfiz,gzubg .ccii,gzubgdizfgisixngbznagTqfgfmig.uyn
fxqigZdixr zgrwgfmzfg .qufxnghmixign.qgzxigzfgyrtixfngf.gjqxwqigwq mgz
d.big.cgyrcigzwgdzngiuztyign.qgf.gb.ghrfm.qfgfmiwi,gzubghmixigfmigwfzfi
b.iwgu.fgiubizs.xgf.g .djiygn.qgf.gwqwfzrugfmigwyzsixngzubghzxgzub
.fmixgwqjixcyq.qwgiojiuwiwghmr mgbrxi fyng.xgrubrxi fyngxiwqyfgcx.dgfmi
qwig.cgwq mgfmruvwagC.xgRgjqxj.wiyngfzypibgf.gmrdgzwgrcgmighixigz
jmry.w.jmix,g.xgbiwrxibgf.gtig.uiagRgwm.qybgtigvyzbgrcgzyygfmigdizb.hw
.ugfmigizxfmghixigyicfgrugzghrybgwfzfi,grcgfmzfghixigfmig .uwilqiu ig.c
diu’wgtivruuruvgf.gxibiidgfmidwiysiwagZgdzughryygu.fguiibgf.gwfqbn
mrwf.xngf.gcrubg.qfghmzfgrwgtiwfgc.xgmrwg.hug qyfqxiagTqfgzyzw!gfmi
 qyfqxig.cgzugRxrwmdzugrwgzugiufixjxrwigf.gtigqubixfzpiughrfmgzgw.xfg.c
d.xzygt.vgm.iagRgf.ybgmrd,gfmzfgzwgmigh.xpibgw.gmzxbgzfgt.vvruv,gmi
xilqrxibgfmr pgt..fwgzubgwf.qfg y.fmruv,ghmr mgnifghixigw..ugw.ryibgzub
h.xug.qf,gtqfgRgh.xigyrvmfgwm.iwgzubgfmrug y.fmruv,ghmr mg .wfgu.fgmzyc
w.gdq m,gfm.qvmgmigdrvmfgfmrupgfmzfgRghzwgbxiwwibgyrpigzgviufyidzu,
(hmr m,gm.hisix,ghzwgu.fgfmig zwi,)gzubgrugzugm.qxg.xgfh.,ghrfm.qf
yzt.x,gtqfgzwgzgxi xizfr.u,gRg .qyb,grcgRghrwmib,g zf mgzwgdzungcrwmgzw
Rgwm.qybghzufgc.xgfh.gbznw,g.xgizxugiu.qvmgd.uingf.gwqjj.xfgdigzghiipa
Rcgmigzubgmrwgczdryngh.qybgyrsigwrdjyn,gfmingdrvmfgzyygv.
z-mq pyitixxnruvgrugfmigwqddixgc.xgfmirxgzdqwidiufagK.mugmizsibgzgwrvm
zfgfmrw,gzubgmrwghrcigwfzxibghrfmgzxdwgz-prdt.,gzubgt.fmgzjjizxibgf.gti
h.ubixruvgrcgfmingmzbg zjrfzygiu.qvmgf.gtivrugwq mgzg .qxwighrfm,g.x
zxrfmdifr giu.qvmgf.g zxxngrfgfmx.qvmagRfghzwgwzryruvgtngbizbgxi p.uruv
f.gfmid,gzubgfmingwzhgu.fg yizxyngm.hgf.gdzpigfmirxgj.xfgw.;gfmixic.xi
Rgwqjj.wigfmingwfryygfzpigyrcigtxzsiyn,gzcfixgfmirxgczwmr.u,gcz igf.
cz i,gvrsruvgrfgf..fmgzubguzry,gu.fgmzsruvgwpryygf.gwjyrfgrfwgdzwwrsi
 .yqduwghrfmgzungcruigiufixruvghibvi,gzubgx.qfgrfgrugbifzry;—fmrupruv
f.gbizyghrfmgrfgx.qvmyn,gzwg.uigwm.qybgmzubyigzgfmrwfyiagTqfgfmingcrvmf
zfgzug.sixhmiydruvgbrwzbszufzvi,—yrsruv,gK.mugCriyb,gzyzw!ghrfm.qf
zxrfmdifr ,gzubgczryruvgw.a

“B.gn.qgisixgcrwm?”gRgzwpibag“.mgniw,gRg zf mgzgdiwwgu.hgzubgfmiughmiu
Rgzdgynruvgtn;gv..bgjix mgRg zf ma”g“Hmzf’wgn.qxgtzrf?”g“Rg zf m
wmruixwghrfmgcrwm-h.xdw,gzubgtzrfgfmigjix mghrfmgfmida”g“N.q’bgtiffix
v.gu.h,gK.mu,”gwzrbgmrwghrci,ghrfmgvyrwfiuruvgzubgm.jicqygcz i;gtqf
K.mugbidqxxiba

Fmigwm.hixghzwgu.hg.six,gzubgzgxzrut.hgzt.sigfmigizwfixugh..bwgjx.drwib
zgczrxgisiuruv;gw.gRgf..pgdngbijzxfqxiagHmiugRgmzbgv.fghrfm.qfgRgzwpib
c.xgzgbxrup,gm.jruvgf.gvifgzgwrvmfg.cgfmighiyygt.ff.d,gf.g .djyifigdn
wqxsing.cgfmigjxidrwiw;gtqfgfmixi,gzyzw!gzxigwmzyy.hwgzubglqr pwzubw,
zubgx.jigtx.piughrfmzy,gzubgtq pifgrxxi .sixztyiagDizuhmryigfmigxrvmf
 qyruzxngsiwwiyghzwgwiyi fib,ghzfixghzwgwiidruvyngbrwfryyib,gzubgzcfix
 .uwqyfzfr.ugzubgy.uvgbiyzngjzwwibg.qfgf.gfmigfmrxwfng.ui,—u.fgnif
wqccixibgf.g ..y,gu.fgnifgf.gwiffyiagWq mgvxqiygwqwfzruwgyrcigmixi,gR
fm.qvmf;gw.,gwmqffruvgdnginiw,gzubgio yqbruvgfmigd.fiwgtngzgwprycqyyn
brxi fibgqubix- qxxiuf,gRgbxzupgf.gviuqruigm.wjrfzyrfngfmigmizxfriwf
bxzqvmfgRg .qybagRgzdgu.fgwlqizdrwmgrugwq mg zwiwghmiugdzuuixwgzxi
 .u ixuiba

ZwgRghzwgyizsruvgfmigRxrwmdzu’wgx..cgzcfixgfmigxzru,gtiubruvgdngwfijw
zvzrugf.gfmigj.ub,gdngmzwfigf.g zf mgjr pixiy,ghzbruvgrugxifrxib
dizb.hw,grugwy.qvmwgzubgt.v-m.yiw,grugc.xy.xugzubgwzszvigjyz iw,
zjjizxibgc.xgzugruwfzufgfxrsrzygf.gdighm.gmzbgtiiugwiufgf.gw m..ygzub
 .yyivi;gtqfgzwgRgxzugb.hugfmigmryygf.hzxbgfmigxibbiuruvghiwf,ghrfmgfmi
xzrut.hg.sixgdngwm.qybix,gzubgw.digczrufgfrupyruvgw.qubwgt.xuigf.gdn
izxgfmx.qvmgfmig yizuwibgzrx,gcx.dgRgpu.hgu.fghmzfglqzxfix,gdngV..b
Viurqwgwiidibgf.gwzn,—V.gcrwmgzubgmqufgczxgzubghrbigbzngtngbzn,—czxfmix
zubghrbix,—zubgxiwfgfmiigtngdzungtx..pwgzubgmizxfm-wrbiwghrfm.qf
drwvrsruvagXididtixgfmng xizf.xgrugfmigbznwg.cgfmngn.qfmagXrwigcxii
cx.dg zxigtic.xigfmigbzhu,gzubgwiipgzbsiufqxiwagYifgfmigu..ugcrubgfmii
tng.fmixgyzpiw,gzubgfmigurvmfg.sixfzpigfmiigisixnhmixigzfgm.diagFmixi
zxigu.gyzxvixgcriybwgfmzugfmiwi,gu.gh.xfmrixgvzdiwgfmzugdzngmixigti
jyznibagVx.hghrybgz  .xbruvgf.gfmnguzfqxi,gyrpigfmiwigwibviwgzub
txzpiw,ghmr mghryyguisixgti .digIuvyrwmgmznagYifgfmigfmqubixgxqdtyi;
hmzfgrcgrfgfmxizfiugxqrugf.gczxdixw’g x.jw?gfmzfgrwgu.fgrfwgixxzubgf.
fmiiagFzpigwmiyfixgqubixgfmig y.qb,ghmryigfmingcyiigf.g zxfwgzubgwmibwa
Yifgu.fgf.gvifgzgyrsruvgtigfmngfxzbi,gtqfgfmngwj.xfagIuk.ngfmigyzub,
tqfg.hugrfgu.fagFmx.qvmghzufg.cgiufixjxrwigzubgczrfmgdiugzxighmixigfmin
zxi,gtqnruvgzubgwiyyruv,gzubgwjiubruvgfmirxgyrsiwgyrpigwixcwa

.gTzpixgCzxd!

ggggg“Yzubw zjighmixigfmigxr miwfgiyidiuf
gggggRwgzgyrffyigwquwmruigruu. iufa”g*g*

ggggg“U.g.uigxquwgf.gxisiy
ggggg.ugfmngxzry-ciu ibgyiza”g*g*

ggggg“Bitzfighrfmgu.gdzugmzwfgfm.q,
gggggggggHrfmglqiwfr.uwgzxfguisixgjixjyioib,
gggggZwgfzdigzfgfmigcrxwfgwrvmfgzwgu.h,
gggggggggRugfmngjyzrugxqwwifgvztzxbruigbxiwwiba”g*g*

ggggg“ .dignighm.gy.si,
gggggggggZubgnighm.gmzfi,
ggggg mrybxiug.cgfmigM.yngB.si,
gggggggggZubgVqngCzqog.cgfmigwfzfi,
gggggZubgmzuvg .uwjrxz riw
gggggCx.dgfmigf.qvmgxzcfixwg.cgfmigfxiiw!”

Diug .digfzdiyngm.digzfgurvmfg.uyngcx.dgfmiguiofgcriybg.xgwfxiif,ghmixi
fmirxgm.qwim.ybgi m.iwgmzquf,gzubgfmirxgyrcigjruiwgti zqwigrfgtxizfmiw
rfwg.hugtxizfmg.sixgzvzru;gfmirxgwmzb.hwgd.xuruvgzubgisiuruvgxiz m
czxfmixgfmzugfmirxgbzryngwfijwagHigwm.qybg .digm.digcx.dgczx,gcx.d
zbsiufqxiw,gzubgjixryw,gzubgbrw .sixriwgisixngbzn,ghrfmguihgiojixriu i
zubg mzxz fixa

Tic.xigRgmzbgxiz mibgfmigj.ubgw.digcxiwmgrdjqywigmzbgtx.qvmfg.qfgK.mu
Criyb,ghrfmgzyfixibgdrub,gyiffruvgv.g“t.vvruv”gixigfmrwgwquwifagTqfgmi,
j..xgdzu,gbrwfqxtibg.uyngzg .qjyig.cgcruwghmryigRghzwg zf mruvgzgczrx
wfxruv,gzubgmigwzrbgrfghzwgmrwgyq p;gtqfghmiughig mzuvibgwizfwgrugfmi
t.zfgyq pg mzuvibgwizfwgf..agJ..xgK.mugCriyb!—Rgfxqwfgmigb.iwgu.fgxizb
fmrw,gquyiwwgmighryygrdjx.sigtngrf,—fmrupruvgf.gyrsigtngw.digbixrszfrsi
.ybg .qufxngd.bigrugfmrwgjxrdrfrsiguihg .qufxn,—f.g zf mgjix mghrfm
wmruixwagRfgrwgv..bgtzrfgw.difrdiw,gRgzyy.hagHrfmgmrwgm.xre.ugzyygmrw
.hu,gnifgmigzgj..xgdzu,gt.xugf.gtigj..x,ghrfmgmrwgrumixrfibgRxrwm
j.sixfng.xgj..xgyrci,gmrwgZbzd’wgvxzubd.fmixgzubgt.vvnghznw,gu.fgf.
xrwigrugfmrwgh.xyb,gmigu.xgmrwgj.wfixrfn,gfryygfmirxghzbruvghittib
t.v-fx.ffruvgciifgvifg_fzyzxrz_gf.gfmirxgmiiywa


MrvmixgYzhw

ZwgRg zdigm.digfmx.qvmgfmigh..bwghrfmgdngwfxruvg.cgcrwm,gfxzryruvgdn
j.yi,grfgtiruvgu.hglqrfigbzxp,gRg zqvmfgzgvyrdjwig.cgzgh..b mq p
wfizyruvgz x.wwgdngjzfm,gzubgciyfgzgwfxzuvigfmxryyg.cgwzszvigbiyrvmf,
zubghzwgwfx.uvyngfidjfibgf.gwireigzubgbis.qxgmrdgxzh;gu.fgfmzfgRghzw
mquvxngfmiu,gio ijfgc.xgfmzfghrybuiwwghmr mgmigxijxiwiufibag.u ig.x
fhr i,gm.hisix,ghmryigRgyrsibgzfgfmigj.ub,gRgc.qubgdnwiycgxzuvruvgfmi
h..bw,gyrpigzgmzyc-wfzxsibgm.qub,ghrfmgzgwfxzuvigztzub.udiuf,gwiipruv
w.digprubg.cgsiurw.ughmr mgRgdrvmfgbis.qx,gzubgu.gd.xwiyg .qybgmzsi
tiiugf..gwzszvigc.xgdiagFmighrybiwfgw iuiwgmzbgti .digquz  .qufztyn
czdryrzxagRgc.qubgrugdnwiyc,gzubgwfryygcrub,gzugruwfru fgf.hzxbgz
mrvmix,g.x,gzwgrfgrwguzdib,gwjrxrfqzygyrci,gzwgb.gd.wfgdiu,gzubgzu.fmix
f.hzxbgzgjxrdrfrsigxzupgzubgwzszvig.ui,gzubgRgxisixiu igfmidgt.fmagR
y.sigfmighrybgu.fgyiwwgfmzugfmigv..bagFmighrybuiwwgzubgzbsiufqxigfmzf
zxigrugcrwmruvgwfryygxi .ddiubibgrfgf.gdiagRgyrpigw.difrdiwgf.gfzpi
xzupgm.ybg.ugyrcigzubgwjiubgdngbzngd.xigzwgfmigzurdzywgb.agJixmzjwgR
mzsig.hibgf.gfmrwgidjy.ndiufgzubgf.gmqufruv,ghmiuglqrfign.quv,gdn
 y.wiwfgz lqzrufzu ighrfmgUzfqxiagFmingizxyngrufx.bq igqwgf.gzubgbifzru
qwgrugw iuixnghrfmghmr mg.fmixhrwi,gzfgfmzfgzvi,ghigwm.qybgmzsigyrffyi
z lqzrufzu iagCrwmixdiu,gmqufixw,gh..b m.jjixw,gzubg.fmixw,gwjiubruv
fmirxgyrsiwgrugfmigcriybwgzubgh..bw,grugzgji qyrzxgwiuwigzgjzxfg.c
Uzfqxigfmidwiysiw,gzxig.cfiugrugzgd.xigczs.xztyigd..bgc.xg.twixsruv
mix,grugfmigrufixszywg.cgfmirxgjqxwqrfw,gfmzugjmry.w.jmixwg.xgj.ifw
isiu,ghm.gzjjx.z mgmixghrfmgioji fzfr.uagWmigrwgu.fgzcxzrbgf.giomrtrf
mixwiycgf.gfmidagFmigfxzsiyyixg.ugfmigjxzrxrigrwguzfqxzyyngzgmqufix,g.u
fmigmizbghzfixwg.cgfmigDrww.qxrgzubg .yqdtrzgzgfxzjjix,gzubgzfgfmi
Czyywg.cgWfagDzxngzgcrwmixdzuagMighm.grwg.uyngzgfxzsiyyixgyizxuwgfmruvw
zfgwi .ub-mzubgzubgtngfmigmzysiw,gzubgrwgj..xgzqfm.xrfnagHigzxigd.wf
rufixiwfibghmiugw riu igxij.xfwghmzfgfm.wigdiugzyxizbngpu.hgjxz fr zyyn
.xgruwfru frsiyn,gc.xgfmzfgzy.uigrwgzgfxqig_mqdzurfn_,g.xgz  .qufg.c
mqdzugiojixriu ia

Fmingdrwfzpighm.gzwwixfgfmzfgfmigNzupiigmzwgcihgzdqwidiufw,gti zqwigmi
mzwgu.fgw.gdzungjqtyr gm.yrbznw,gzubgdiugzubgt.nwgb.gu.fgjyzngw.gdzun
vzdiwgzwgfmingb.grugIuvyzub,gc.xgmixigfmigd.xigjxrdrfrsigtqfgw.yrfzxn
zdqwidiufwg.cgmqufruvgcrwmruvgzubgfmigyrpigmzsigu.fgnifgvrsiugjyz igf.
fmigc.xdixagZyd.wfgisixngUihgIuvyzubgt.ngzd.uvgdng .ufidj.xzxriw
wm.qybixibgzgc.hyruvgjri igtifhiiugfmigzviwg.cgfiugzubgc.qxfiiu;gzub
mrwgmqufruvgzubgcrwmruvgvx.qubwghixigu.fgyrdrfib,gyrpigfmigjxiwixsiwg.c
zugIuvyrwmgu.tyidzu,gtqfghixigd.xigt.qubyiwwgisiugfmzugfm.wig.cgz
wzszviagU.gh.ubix,gfmiu,gfmzfgmigbrbgu.fg.cfiuixgwfzngf.gjyzng.ugfmi
 .dd.uagTqfgzyxizbngzg mzuvigrwgfzpruvgjyz i,g.hruv,gu.fgf.gzu
ru xizwibgmqdzurfn,gtqfgf.gzugru xizwibgw zx rfng.cgvzdi,gc.xgjixmzjw
fmigmqufixgrwgfmigvxizfiwfgcxriubg.cgfmigzurdzywgmqufib,gu.fgio ijfruv
fmigMqdzuigW. rifna

D.xi.six,ghmiugzfgfmigj.ub,gRghrwmibgw.difrdiwgf.gzbbgcrwmgf.gdngczxi
c.xgszxrifnagRgmzsigz fqzyyngcrwmibgcx.dgfmigwzdigprubg.cgui iwwrfn
fmzfgfmigcrxwfgcrwmixwgbrbagHmzfisixgmqdzurfngRgdrvmfg .ukqxigqj
zvzruwfgrfghzwgzyygcz frfr.qw,gzubg .u ixuibgdngjmry.w.jmngd.xigfmzugdn
ciiyruvwagRgwjizpg.cgcrwmruvg.uyngu.h,gc.xgRgmzbgy.uvgciyfgbrccixiufyn
zt.qfgc.hyruv,gzubgw.ybgdngvqugtic.xigRghiufgf.gfmigh..bwagU.fgfmzfgR
zdgyiwwgmqdzuigfmzug.fmixw,gtqfgRgbrbgu.fgjix irsigfmzfgdngciiyruvw
hixigdq mgzcci fibagRgbrbgu.fgjrfngfmigcrwmiwgu.xgfmigh.xdwagFmrwghzw
mztrfagZwgc.xgc.hyruv,gbqxruvgfmigyzwfgnizxwgfmzfgRg zxxribgzgvqugdn
io qwighzwgfmzfgRghzwgwfqbnruvg.xurfm.y.vn,gzubgw.qvmfg.uynguihg.xgxzxi
trxbwagTqfgRg .uciwwgfmzfgRgzdgu.hgru yruibgf.gfmrupgfmzfgfmixigrwgz
cruixghzng.cgwfqbnruvg.xurfm.y.vngfmzugfmrwagRfgxilqrxiwgw.gdq mg y.wix
zffiufr.ugf.gfmigmztrfwg.cgfmigtrxbw,gfmzf,grcgc.xgfmzfgxizw.ug.uyn,gR
mzsigtiiughryyruvgf.g.drfgfmigvquagNifgu.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmig.tki fr.ug.u
fmigw .xig.cgmqdzurfn,gRgzdg .djiyyibgf.gb.qtfgrcgilqzyyngszyqztyi
wj.xfwgzxigisixgwqtwfrfqfibgc.xgfmiwi;gzubghmiugw.dig.cgdngcxriubwgmzsi
zwpibgdigzuor.qwyngzt.qfgfmirxgt.nw,ghmifmixgfmingwm.qybgyifgfmidgmquf,
Rgmzsigzuwhixib,gniw,—xididtixruvgfmzfgrfghzwg.uig.cgfmigtiwfgjzxfwg.c
dngibq zfr.u,—_dzpi_gfmidgmqufixw,gfm.qvmgwj.xfwdiug.uyngzfgcrxwf,grc
j.wwrtyi,gdrvmfngmqufixwgzfgyzwf,gw.gfmzfgfmingwmzyygu.fgcrubgvzdi
yzxvigiu.qvmgc.xgfmidgrugfmrwg.xgzungsivifztyighrybixuiww,—mqufixwgzw
hiyygzwgcrwmixwg.cgdiuagFmqwgczxgRgzdg.cgfmig.jrur.ug.cg mzq ix’wguqu,
hm.

ggggg“nzsigu.fg.cgfmigfiofgzgjqyyibgmiu
gggggFmzfgwzrfmgfmzfgmqufixwgtiugu.fgm.yngdiua”

Fmixigrwgzgjixr.bgrugfmigmrwf.xng.cgfmigrubrsrbqzy,gzwg.cgfmigxz i,
hmiugfmigmqufixwgzxigfmig“tiwfgdiu,”gzwgfmigZyv.ulqruwg zyyibgfmidagHi
 zuu.fgtqfgjrfngfmigt.nghm.gmzwguisixgcrxibgzgvqu;gmigrwgu.gd.xi
mqdzui,ghmryigmrwgibq zfr.ugmzwgtiiugwzbynguivyi fibagFmrwghzwgdn
zuwhixghrfmgxiwji fgf.gfm.wign.qfmwghm.ghixigtiufg.ugfmrwgjqxwqrf,
fxqwfruvgfmzfgfmingh.qybgw..ug.qfvx.hgrfagU.gmqdzuigtiruv,gjzwfgfmi
fm.qvmfyiwwgzvig.cgt.nm..b,ghryyghzuf.uyngdqxbixgzung xizfqxighmr m
m.ybwgrfwgyrcigtngfmigwzdigfiuqxigfmzfgmigb.iwagFmigmzxigrugrfw
iofxidrfng xriwgyrpigzg mrybagRghzxugn.q,gd.fmixw,gfmzfgdngwndjzfmriw
b.gu.fgzyhznwgdzpigfmigqwqzygjmry-_zufmx.jr _gbrwfru fr.uwa

Wq mgrwg.cfiuiwfgfmign.quvgdzu’wgrufx.bq fr.ugf.gfmigc.xiwf,gzubgfmi
d.wfg.xrvruzygjzxfg.cgmrdwiycagMigv.iwgfmrfmixgzfgcrxwfgzwgzgmqufixgzub
crwmix,gqufrygzfgyzwf,grcgmigmzwgfmigwiibwg.cgzgtiffixgyrcigrugmrd,gmi
brwfruvqrwmiwgmrwgjx.jixg.tki fw,gzwgzgj.ifg.xguzfqxzyrwfgrfgdzngti,
zubgyizsiwgfmigvqugzubgcrwm-j.yigtimrubagFmigdzwwg.cgdiugzxigwfryygzub
zyhznwgn.quvgrugfmrwgxiwji fagRugw.dig .qufxriwgzgmqufruvgjzxw.ugrwgu.
qu .dd.ugwrvmfagWq mgzg.uigdrvmfgdzpigzgv..bgwmijmixb’wgb.v,gtqfgrwgczx
cx.dgtiruvgfmigV..bgWmijmixbagRgmzsigtiiugwqxjxrwibgf.g .uwrbixgfmzf
fmig.uyng.tsr.qwgidjy.ndiuf,gio ijfgh..b- m.jjruv,gr i- qffruv,g.xgfmi
yrpigtqwruiww,ghmr mgisixgf.gdngpu.hyibvigbifzruibgzfgHzybiugJ.ubgc.xgz
hm.yigmzycgbzngzung.cgdngciyy.h- rfreiuw,ghmifmixgczfmixwg.xg mrybxiu
.cgfmigf.hu,ghrfmgkqwfg.uigio ijfr.u,ghzwgcrwmruvag .dd.uyngfmingbrb
u.fgfmrupgfmzfgfminghixigyq pn,g.xghiyygjzrbgc.xgfmirxgfrdi,gquyiww
fmingv.fgzgy.uvgwfxruvg.cgcrwm,gfm.qvmgfmingmzbgfmig.jj.xfqurfng.c
wiiruvgfmigj.ubgzyygfmighmryiagFmingdrvmfgv.gfmixigzgfm.qwzubgfrdiw
tic.xigfmigwibrdiufg.cgcrwmruvgh.qybgwrupgf.gfmigt.ff.dgzubgyizsigfmirx
jqxj.wigjqxi;gtqfgu.gb.qtfgwq mgzg yzxrcnruvgjx. iwwgh.qybgtigv.ruvg.u
zyygfmighmryiagFmigv.sixu.xgzubgmrwg .qu rygczrufyngxididtixgfmigj.ub,
c.xgfminghiufgz-crwmruvgfmixighmiugfminghixigt.nw;gtqfgu.hgfmingzxigf..
.ybgzubgbrvurcribgf.gv.gz-crwmruv,gzubgw.gfmingpu.hgrfgu.gd.xigc.xisixa
Nifgisiugfmingioji fgf.gv.gf.gmizsiugzfgyzwfagRcgfmigyivrwyzfqxi
xivzxbwgrf,grfgrwg mricyngf.gxivqyzfigfmiguqdtixg.cgm..pwgf.gtigqwib
fmixi;gtqfgfmingpu.hgu.fmruvgzt.qfgfmigm..pg.cgm..pwghrfmghmr mgf.
zuvyigc.xgfmigj.ubgrfwiyc,grdjzyruvgfmigyivrwyzfqxigc.xgzgtzrfagFmqw,
isiugrug rsryreibg .ddqurfriw,gfmigidtxn.gdzugjzwwiwgfmx.qvmgfmigmqufix
wfzvig.cgbisiy.jdiufa

Rgmzsigc.qubgxijizfibyn,g.cgyzfignizxw,gfmzfgRg zuu.fgcrwmghrfm.qf
czyyruvgzgyrffyigrugwiyc-xiwji fagRgmzsigfxribgrfgzvzrugzubgzvzruagR
mzsigwpryygzfgrf,gzub,gyrpigdzung.cgdngciyy.hw,gzg ixfzrugruwfru fgc.x
rf,ghmr mgxisrsiwgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gtqfgzyhznwghmiugRgmzsigb.uigRgciiy
fmzfgrfgh.qybgmzsigtiiugtiffixgrcgRgmzbgu.fgcrwmibagRgfmrupgfmzfgRgb.
u.fgdrwfzpiagRfgrwgzgczrufgrufrdzfr.u,gnifgw.gzxigfmigcrxwfgwfxizpwg.c
d.xuruvagFmixigrwgqulqiwfr.uztyngfmrwgruwfru fgrugdighmr mgtiy.uvwgf.
fmigy.hixg.xbixwg.cg xizfr.u;gnifghrfmgisixngnizxgRgzdgyiwwgz
crwmixdzu,gfm.qvmghrfm.qfgd.xigmqdzurfng.xgisiughrwb.d;gzfgjxiwiufgRgzd
u.gcrwmixdzugzfgzyyagTqfgRgwiigfmzfgrcgRghixigf.gyrsigrugzghrybixuiwwgR
wm.qybgzvzrugtigfidjfibgf.gti .digzgcrwmixgzubgmqufixgrugizxuiwfa
Tiwrbi,gfmixigrwgw.difmruvgiwwiufrzyyngqu yizugzt.qfgfmrwgbrifgzubgzyy
cyiwm,gzubgRgtivzugf.gwiighmixigm.qwih.xpg .ddiu iw,gzubghmiu igfmi
iubizs.x,ghmr mg .wfwgw.gdq m,gf.ghizxgzgfrbngzubgxiwji fztyi
zjjizxzu igiz mgbzn,gf.gpiijgfmigm.qwigwhiifgzubgcxiigcx.dgzyygryy
.b.xwgzubgwrvmfwagMzsruvgtiiugdng.hugtqf mixgzubgw qyyr.ugzubg ..p,gzw
hiyygzwgfmigviufyidzugc.xghm.dgfmigbrwmiwghixigwixsibgqj,gRg zugwjizp
cx.dgzugquqwqzyyng .djyifigiojixriu iagFmigjxz fr zyg.tki fr.ugf.
zurdzygc..bgrugdng zwighzwgrfwgqu yizuuiww;gzub,gtiwrbiw,ghmiugRgmzb
 zqvmfgzubg yizuibgzubg ..pibgzubgizfiugdngcrwm,gfmingwiidibgu.fgf.
mzsigcibgdigiwwiufrzyynagRfghzwgruwrvurcr zufgzubgquui iwwzxn,gzubg .wf
d.xigfmzugrfg zdigf.agZgyrffyigtxizbg.xgzgcihgj.fzf.iwgh.qybgmzsigb.ui
zwghiyy,ghrfmgyiwwgfx.qtyigzubgcryfmagYrpigdzung.cgdng .ufidj.xzxriw,gR
mzbgxzxiyngc.xgdzungnizxwgqwibgzurdzygc..b,g.xgfiz,g.xg .ccii,g& a;gu.f
w.gdq mgti zqwig.cgzungryygicci fwghmr mgRgmzbgfxz ibgf.gfmid,gzw
ti zqwigfminghixigu.fgzvxiiztyigf.gdngrdzvruzfr.uagFmigxijqvuzu igf.
zurdzygc..bgrwgu.fgfmigicci fg.cgiojixriu i,gtqfgrwgzugruwfru fagRf
zjjizxibgd.xigtizqfrcqygf.gyrsigy.hgzubgczxigmzxbgrugdzungxiwji fw;gzub
fm.qvmgRguisixgbrbgw.,gRghiufgczxgiu.qvmgf.gjyizwigdngrdzvruzfr.uagR
tiyrisigfmzfgisixngdzughm.gmzwgisixgtiiugizxuiwfgf.gjxiwixsigmrwgmrvmix
.xgj.ifr gcz qyfriwgrugfmigtiwfg .ubrfr.ugmzwgtiiugjzxfr qyzxyn
ru yruibgf.gztwfzrugcx.dgzurdzygc..b,gzubgcx.dgdq mgc..bg.cgzungpruba
Rfgrwgzgwrvurcr zufgcz f,gwfzfibgtngiuf.d.y.vrwfw,gRgcrubgrfgrugPrxtn
zubgWjiu i,gfmzfg“w.digruwi fwgrugfmirxgjixci fgwfzfi,gfm.qvmgcqxurwmib
hrfmg.xvzuwg.cgciibruv,gdzpigu.gqwig.cgfmid;”gzubgfmingyzngrfgb.hugzw
“zgviuixzygxqyi,gfmzfgzyd.wfgzyygruwi fwgrugfmrwgwfzfigizfgdq mgyiww
fmzugrugfmzfg.cgyzxsæagFmigs.xz r.qwg zfixjryyzxghmiugfxzuwc.xdibgruf.
zgtqffixcyn,”gagag“zubgfmigvyqff.u.qwgdzvv.fghmiugti .digzgcyn,”
 .ufiufgfmidwiysiwghrfmgzgbx.jg.xgfh.g.cgm.uing.xgw.dig.fmixgwhiif
yrlqrbagFmigztb.diugqubixgfmighruvwg.cgfmigtqffixcyngwfryygxijxiwiufw
fmigyzxszagFmrwgrwgfmigfrb-trfghmr mgfidjfwgmrwgruwi frs.x.qwgczfiagFmi
vx.wwgciibixgrwgzgdzugrugfmigyzxszgwfzfi;gzubgfmixigzxighm.yiguzfr.uw
rugfmzfg .ubrfr.u,guzfr.uwghrfm.qfgczu ng.xgrdzvruzfr.u,ghm.wigszwf
ztb.diuwgtifxzngfmida

Rfgrwgmzxbgf.gjx.srbigzubg ..pgw.gwrdjyigzubg yizugzgbrifgzwghryygu.f
.cciubgfmigrdzvruzfr.u;gtqfgfmrw,gRgfmrup,grwgf.gtigcibghmiughigciib
fmigt.bn;gfmingwm.qybgt.fmgwrfgb.hugzfgfmigwzdigfztyiagNifgjixmzjwgfmrw
dzngtigb.uiagFmigcxqrfwgizfiugfidjixzfiynguiibgu.fgdzpigqwgzwmzdibg.c
.qxgzjjifrfiw,gu.xgrufixxqjfgfmigh.xfmriwfgjqxwqrfwagTqfgjqfgzugiofxz
 .ubrdiufgruf.gn.qxgbrwm,gzubgrfghryygj.rw.ugn.qagRfgrwgu.fgh.xfmgfmi
hmryigf.gyrsigtngxr mg ..pixnagD.wfgdiugh.qybgciiygwmzdigrcg zqvmf
jxijzxruvghrfmgfmirxg.hugmzubwgjxi rwiyngwq mgzgbruuix,ghmifmixg.c
zurdzyg.xgsivifztyigc..b,gzwgrwgisixngbzngjxijzxibgc.xgfmidgtng.fmixwa
Nifgfryygfmrwgrwg.fmixhrwighigzxigu.fg rsryreib,gzub,grcgviufyidiugzub
yzbriw,gzxigu.fgfxqigdiugzubgh.diuagFmrwg ixfzruyngwqvviwfwghmzfg mzuvi
rwgf.gtigdzbiagRfgdzngtigszrugf.gzwpghmngfmigrdzvruzfr.ughryygu.fgti
xi .u ryibgf.gcyiwmgzubgczfagRgzdgwzfrwcribgfmzfgrfgrwgu.fagRwgrfgu.fgz
xijx.z mgfmzfgdzugrwgzg zxurs.x.qwgzurdzy?gFxqi,gmig zugzubgb.iwgyrsi,
rugzgvxizfgdizwqxi,gtngjxinruvg.ug.fmixgzurdzyw;gtqfgfmrwgrwgz
drwixztyighzn,—zwgzung.uighm.ghryygv.gf.gwuzxruvgxzttrfw,g.x
wyzqvmfixruvgyzdtw,gdzngyizxu,—zubgmighryygtigxivzxbibgzwgzgtiuicz f.x
.cgmrwgxz ighm.gwmzyygfiz mgdzugf.g .ucruigmrdwiycgf.gzgd.xigruu. iuf
zubghm.yiw.digbrifagHmzfisixgdng.hugjxz fr igdzngti,gRgmzsigu.gb.qtf
fmzfgrfgrwgzgjzxfg.cgfmigbiwfrung.cgfmigmqdzugxz i,grugrfwgvxzbqzy
rdjx.sidiuf,gf.gyizsig.ccgizfruvgzurdzyw,gzwgwqxiyngzwgfmigwzszvi
fxrtiwgmzsigyicfg.ccgizfruvgiz mg.fmixghmiugfming zdigrug .ufz fghrfm
fmigd.xig rsryreiba

Rcg.uigyrwfiuwgf.gfmigczrufiwfgtqfg .uwfzufgwqvviwfr.uwg.cgmrwgviurqw,
hmr mgzxig ixfzruyngfxqi,gmigwiiwgu.fgf.ghmzfgiofxidiw,g.xgisiu
ruwzurfn,grfgdzngyizbgmrd;gzubgnifgfmzfghzn,gzwgmigvx.hwgd.xigxiw.yqfi
zubgczrfmcqy,gmrwgx.zbgyriwagFmigczrufiwfgzwwqxibg.tki fr.ughmr mg.ui
mizyfmngdzugciiywghryygzfgyiuvfmgjxiszryg.sixgfmigzxvqdiufwgzubg qwf.dw
.cgdzuprubagU.gdzugisixgc.yy.hibgmrwgviurqwgfryygrfgdrwyibgmrdagFm.qvm
fmigxiwqyfghixigt.brynghizpuiww,gnifgjixmzjwgu.g.uig zugwzngfmzfgfmi
 .uwilqiu iwghixigf.gtigxivxiffib,gc.xgfmiwighixigzgyrcigrug .uc.xdrfn
f.gmrvmixgjxru rjyiwagRcgfmigbzngzubgfmigurvmfgzxigwq mgfmzfgn.qgvxiif
fmidghrfmgk.n,gzubgyrcigidrfwgzgcxzvxzu igyrpigcy.hixwgzub
whiif-w iufibgmixtw,grwgd.xigiyzwfr ,gd.xigwfzxxn,gd.xigrdd.xfzy,—fmzf
rwgn.qxgwq  iwwagZyyguzfqxigrwgn.qxg .uvxzfqyzfr.u,gzubgn.qgmzsig zqwi
d.diufzxryngf.gtyiwwgn.qxwiycagFmigvxizfiwfgvzruwgzubgszyqiwgzxi
czxfmiwfgcx.dgtiruvgzjjxi rzfibagHigizwryng .digf.gb.qtfgrcgfmingiorwfa
Higw..ugc.xvifgfmidagFmingzxigfmigmrvmiwfgxizyrfnagJixmzjwgfmigcz fw
d.wfgzwf.qubruvgzubgd.wfgxizygzxiguisixg .ddqur zfibgtngdzugf.gdzuagFmi
fxqigmzxsiwfg.cgdngbzryngyrcigrwgw.dihmzfgzwgrufzuvrtyigzub
rubiw xrtztyigzwgfmigfrufwg.cgd.xuruvg.xgisiuruvagRfgrwgzgyrffyi
wfzx-bqwfg zqvmf,gzgwivdiufg.cgfmigxzrut.hghmr mgRgmzsig yqf miba

Nif,gc.xgdngjzxf,gRghzwguisixgquqwqzyyngwlqizdrwm;gRg .qybgw.difrdiw
izfgzgcxribgxzfghrfmgzgv..bgxiyrwm,grcgrfghixigui iwwzxnagRgzdgvyzbgf.
mzsigbxqupghzfixgw.gy.uv,gc.xgfmigwzdigxizw.ugfmzfgRgjxicixgfmiguzfqxzy
wpngf.gzug.jrqd-izfix’wgmizsiuagRgh.qybgczrugpiijgw.tixgzyhznw;gzub
fmixigzxigrucrurfigbivxiiwg.cgbxqupiuuiwwagRgtiyrisigfmzfghzfixgrwgfmi
.uyngbxrupgc.xgzghrwigdzu;ghruigrwgu.fgw.gu.tyigzgyrlq.x;gzubgfmrupg.c
bzwmruvgfmigm.jiwg.cgzgd.xuruvghrfmgzg qjg.cghzxdg .ccii,g.xg.cgzu
isiuruvghrfmgzgbrwmg.cgfiz!gZm,gm.hgy.hgRgczyyghmiugRgzdgfidjfibgtn
fmid!gIsiugdqwr gdzngtigruf.or zfruvagWq mgzjjzxiufyngwyrvmfg zqwiw
biwfx.nibgVxii igzubgX.di,gzubghryygbiwfx.ngIuvyzubgzubgZdixr zag.cgzyy
itxr.wrfn,ghm.gb.iwgu.fgjxicixgf.gtigruf.or zfibgtngfmigzrxgmi
txizfmiw?gRgmzsigc.qubgrfgf.gtigfmigd.wfgwixr.qwg.tki fr.ugf.g .zxwi
yzt.xwgy.uvg .ufruqib,gfmzfgfming .djiyyibgdigf.gizfgzubgbxrupg .zxwiyn
zyw.agTqfgf.gfiyygfmigfxqfm,gRgcrubgdnwiycgzfgjxiwiufgw.dihmzfgyiww
jzxfr qyzxgrugfmiwigxiwji fwagRg zxxngyiwwgxiyrvr.ugf.gfmigfztyi,gzwp
u.gtyiwwruv;gu.fgti zqwigRgzdghrwixgfmzugRghzw,gtqf,gRgzdg.tyrvibgf.
 .uciww,gti zqwi,gm.hisixgdq mgrfgrwgf.gtigxivxiffib,ghrfmgnizxwgRgmzsi
vx.hugd.xig .zxwigzubgrubrccixiufagJixmzjwgfmiwiglqiwfr.uwgzxi
iufixfzruibg.uyngrugn.qfm,gzwgd.wfgtiyrisig.cgj.ifxnagDngjxz fr igrw
“u.hmixi,”gdng.jrur.ugrwgmixiagUisixfmiyiwwgRgzdgczxgcx.dgxivzxbruv
dnwiycgzwg.uig.cgfm.wigjxrsryivibg.uiwgf.ghm.dgfmigSibgxicixwghmiugrf
wznw,gfmzfg“mighm.gmzwgfxqigczrfmgrugfmig.durjxiwiufgWqjxidigTiruvgdzn
izfgzyygfmzfgiorwfw,”gfmzfgrw,grwgu.fgt.qubgf.grulqrxighmzfgrwgmrw
c..b,g.xghm.gjxijzxiwgrf;gzubgisiugrugfmirxg zwigrfgrwgf.gtig.twixsib,
zwgzgMrub..g .ddiufzf.xgmzwgxidzxpib,gfmzfgfmigSibzufgyrdrfwgfmrw
jxrsryivigf.g“fmigfrdig.cgbrwfxiwwa”

Hm.gmzwgu.fgw.difrdiwgbixrsibgzugruiojxiwwrtyigwzfrwcz fr.ugcx.dgmrw
c..bgrughmr mgzjjifrfigmzbgu.gwmzxi?gRgmzsigtiiugfmxryyibgf.gfmrupgfmzf
Rg.hibgzgdiufzygjix ijfr.ugf.gfmig .dd.uyngvx.wwgwiuwig.cgfzwfi,gfmzfgR
mzsigtiiugruwjrxibgfmx.qvmgfmigjzyzfi,gfmzfgw.digtixxriwghmr mgRgmzb
izfiug.ugzgmryy-wrbigmzbgcibgdngviurqwag“Fmigw.qygu.fgtiruvgdrwfxiwwg.c
mixwiyc,”gwznwgFmwiuv-fwiq,g“.uigy..pw,gzubg.uigb.iwgu.fgwii;g.ui
yrwfiuw,gzubg.uigb.iwgu.fgmizx;g.uigizfw,gzubg.uigb.iwgu.fgpu.hgfmi
wzs.xg.cgc..ba”gMighm.gbrwfruvqrwmiwgfmigfxqigwzs.xg.cgmrwgc..bg zu
uisixgtigzgvyqff.u;gmighm.gb.iwgu.fg zuu.fgtig.fmixhrwiagZgjqxrfzugdzn
v.gf.gmrwgtx.hu-txizbg xqwfghrfmgzwgvx.wwgzugzjjifrfigzwgisixgzu
zybixdzugf.gmrwgfqxfyiagU.fgfmzfgc..bghmr mgiufixifmgruf.gfmigd.qfm
bicryifmgzgdzu,gtqfgfmigzjjifrfighrfmghmr mgrfgrwgizfiuagRfgrwguirfmix
fmiglqzyrfngu.xgfmiglqzufrfn,gtqfgfmigbis.fr.ugf.gwiuwqzygwzs.xw;ghmiu
fmzfghmr mgrwgizfiugrwgu.fgzgsrzubgf.gwqwfzrug.qxgzurdzy,g.xgruwjrxi
.qxgwjrxrfqzygyrci,gtqfgc..bgc.xgfmigh.xdwgfmzfgj.wwiwwgqwagRcgfmi
mqufixgmzwgzgfzwfigc.xgdqb-fqxfyiw,gdqwpxzfw,gzubg.fmixgwq mgwzszvi
frb-trfw,gfmigcruigyzbngrubqyviwgzgfzwfigc.xgkiyyngdzbig.cgzg zyc’w
c..f,g.xgc.xgwzxbruiwgcx.dg.sixgfmigwiz,gzubgfmingzxigisiuagMigv.iwgf.
fmigdryy-j.ub,gwmigf.gmixgjxiwixsi-j.fagFmigh.ubixgrwgm.hgfmin,gm.hgn.q
zubgR,g zugyrsigfmrwgwyrdn,gtizwfyngyrci,gizfruvgzubgbxrupruva

.qxghm.yigyrcigrwgwfzxfyruvyngd.xzyagFmixigrwguisixgzugruwfzuf’wgfxq i
tifhiiugsrxfqigzubgsr iagV..buiwwgrwgfmig.uyngrusiwfdiufgfmzfguisix
czrywagRugfmigdqwr g.cgfmigmzxjghmr mgfxidtyiwgx.qubgfmigh.xybgrfgrw
fmigruwrwfruvg.ugfmrwghmr mgfmxryywgqwagFmigmzxjgrwgfmigfxzsiyyruv
jzffixixgc.xgfmigQursixwi’wgRuwqxzu ig .djzun,gxi .ddiubruvgrfwgyzhw,
zubg.qxgyrffyigv..buiwwgrwgzyygfmigzwwiwwdiufgfmzfghigjznagFm.qvmgfmi
n.qfmgzfgyzwfgvx.hwgrubrccixiuf,gfmigyzhwg.cgfmigqursixwigzxigu.f
rubrccixiuf,gtqfgzxigc.xisixg.ugfmigwrbig.cgfmigd.wfgwiuwrfrsiagYrwfiu
f.gisixngeijmnxgc.xgw.digxijx..c,gc.xgrfgrwgwqxiyngfmixi,gzubgmigrw
quc.xfquzfighm.gb.iwgu.fgmizxgrfagHig zuu.fgf.q mgzgwfxruvg.xgd.sigz
wf.jgtqfgfmig mzxdruvgd.xzygfxzuwcroiwgqwagDzungzugrxpw.digu.rwi,gv.gz
y.uvghzng.cc,grwgmizxbgzwgdqwr ,gzgjx.qbgwhiifgwzfrxig.ugfmigdizuuiww
.cg.qxgyrsiwa

Higzxig .uw r.qwg.cgzugzurdzygrugqw,ghmr mgzhzpiuwgrugjx.j.xfr.ugzwg.qx
mrvmixguzfqxigwyqdtixwagRfgrwgxijfryigzubgwiuwqzy,gzubgjixmzjwg zuu.f
tighm.yyngiojiyyib;gyrpigfmigh.xdwghmr m,gisiugrugyrcigzubgmizyfm,
.  qjng.qxgt.briwagJ.wwrtynghigdznghrfmbxzhgcx.dgrf,gtqfguisixg mzuvi
rfwguzfqxiagRgcizxgfmzfgrfgdzngiuk.ngzg ixfzrugmizyfmg.cgrfwg.hu;gfmzf
higdzngtighiyy,gnifgu.fgjqxiagFmig.fmixgbzngRgjr pibgqjgfmigy.hixgkzh
.cgzgm.v,ghrfmghmrfigzubgw.qubgfiifmgzubgfqwpw,ghmr mgwqvviwfibgfmzf
fmixighzwgzugzurdzygmizyfmgzubgsrv.xgbrwfru fgcx.dgfmigwjrxrfqzyagFmrw
 xizfqxigwq  iibibgtng.fmixgdizuwgfmzugfidjixzu igzubgjqxrfnag“Fmzfgru
hmr mgdiugbrccixgcx.dgtxqfigtizwfw,”gwznwgDiu rqw,g“rwgzgfmruvgsixn
ru .uwrbixztyi;gfmig .dd.ugmixbgy.wigrfgsixngw..u;gwqjixr.xgdiu
jxiwixsigrfg zxicqyyna”gHm.gpu.hwghmzfgw.xfg.cgyrcigh.qybgxiwqyfgrcghi
mzbgzffzruibgf.gjqxrfn?gRcgRgpuihgw.ghrwigzgdzugzwg .qybgfiz mgdi
jqxrfngRgh.qybgv.gf.gwiipgmrdgc.xfmhrfmag“Zg .ddzubg.sixg.qxgjzwwr.uw,
zubg.sixgfmigiofixuzygwiuwiwg.cgfmigt.bn,gzubgv..bgz fw,gzxigbi yzxib
tngfmigSibgf.gtigrubrwjiuwztyigrugfmigdrub’wgzjjx.ordzfr.ugf.gV.ba”gNif
fmigwjrxrfg zugc.xgfmigfrdigjixszbigzubg .ufx.ygisixngdidtixgzub
cqu fr.ug.cgfmigt.bn,gzubgfxzuwdqfighmzfgrugc.xdgrwgfmigvx.wwiwf
wiuwqzyrfngruf.gjqxrfngzubgbis.fr.uagFmigviuixzfrsigiuixvn,ghmr m,ghmiu
higzxigy..wi,gbrwwrjzfiwgzubgdzpiwgqwgqu yizu,ghmiughigzxig .ufruiuf
rusrv.xzfiwgzubgruwjrxiwgqwag mzwfrfngrwgfmigcy.hixruvg.cgdzu;gzubghmzf
zxig zyyibgViurqw,gMix.rwd,gM.yruiww,gzubgfmigyrpi,gzxigtqfgszxr.qw
cxqrfwghmr mgwq  iibgrfagDzugcy.hwgzfg.u igf.gV.bghmiugfmig mzuuiyg.c
jqxrfngrwg.jiuagTngfqxuwg.qxgjqxrfngruwjrxiwgzubg.qxgrdjqxrfng zwfwgqw
b.huagMigrwgtyiwwibghm.grwgzwwqxibgfmzfgfmigzurdzygrwgbnruvg.qfgrugmrd
bzngtngbzn,gzubgfmigbrsruigtiruvgiwfztyrwmibagJixmzjwgfmixigrwgu.uigtqf
mzwg zqwigc.xgwmzdig.ugz  .qufg.cgfmigrucixr.xgzubgtxqfrwmguzfqxigf.
hmr mgmigrwgzyyribagRgcizxgfmzfghigzxigwq mgv.bwg.xgbidrv.bwg.uyngzw
czquwgzubgwzfnxw,gfmigbrsruigzyyribgf.gtizwfw,gfmig xizfqxiwg.c
zjjifrfi,gzubgfmzf,gf.gw.digiofiuf,g.qxgsixngyrcigrwg.qxgbrwvxz ia—

ggggg“M.hgmzjjn’wgmighm.gmzfmgbqigjyz igzwwrvuib
gggggF.gmrwgtizwfwgzubgbrwzcc.xiwfibgmrwgdrub!
gggggggggggggggg*gggg*gggg*gggg*gggg*
ggggg zugqwigfmrwgm.xwi,gv.zf,gh.yc,gzubgis’xngtizwf,
gggggZubgrwgu.fgzwwgmrdwiycgf.gzyygfmigxiwf!
gggggIywigdzugu.fg.uyngrwgfmigmixbg.cgwhrui,
gggggTqfgmi’wgfm.wigbisrywgf..ghmr mgbrbgru yrui
gggggFmidgf.gzgmizby.uvgxzvi,gzubgdzbigfmidgh.xwia”

Zyygwiuwqzyrfngrwg.ui,gfm.qvmgrfgfzpiwgdzungc.xdw;gzyygjqxrfngrwg.uia
Rfgrwgfmigwzdighmifmixgzgdzugizf,g.xgbxrup,g.xg .mztrf,g.xgwyiij
wiuwqzyynagFmingzxigtqfg.uigzjjifrfi,gzubghig.uynguiibgf.gwiigzgjixw.u
b.gzung.uig.cgfmiwigfmruvwgf.gpu.hgm.hgvxizfgzgwiuwqzyrwfgmigrwagFmi
rdjqxig zuguirfmixgwfzubgu.xgwrfghrfmgjqxrfnagHmiugfmigxijfryigrw
zffz pibgzfg.uigd.qfmg.cgmrwgtqxx.h,gmigwm.hwgmrdwiycgzfgzu.fmixagRc
n.qgh.qybgtig mzwfi,gn.qgdqwfgtigfidjixzfiagHmzfgrwg mzwfrfn?gM.hgwmzyy
zgdzugpu.hgrcgmigrwg mzwfi?gMigwmzyygu.fgpu.hgrfagHigmzsigmizxbg.cgfmrw
srxfqi,gtqfghigpu.hgu.fghmzfgrfgrwagHigwjizpg .uc.xdztyngf.gfmigxqd.x
hmr mghigmzsigmizxbagCx.dgioixfr.ug .dighrwb.dgzubgjqxrfn;gcx.dgwy.fm
rvu.xzu igzubgwiuwqzyrfnagRugfmigwfqbiufgwiuwqzyrfngrwgzgwyqvvrwmgmztrf
.cgdrubagZugqu yizugjixw.ugrwgqursixwzyyngzgwy.fmcqyg.ui,g.uighm.gwrfw
tngzgwf.si,ghm.dgfmigwqugwmruiwg.ugjx.wfxzfi,ghm.gxij.wiwghrfm.qfgtiruv
czfrvqibagRcgn.qgh.qybgzs.rbgqu yizuuiww,gzubgzyygfmigwruw,gh.xp
izxuiwfyn,gfm.qvmgrfgtigzfg yizuruvgzgwfztyiagUzfqxigrwgmzxbgf.gti
.six .di,gtqfgwmigdqwfgtig.six .diagHmzfgzszrywgrfgfmzfgn.qgzxi
 mxrwfrzu,grcgn.qgzxigu.fgjqxixgfmzugfmigmizfmiu,grcgn.qgbiungn.qxwiyc
u.gd.xi,grcgn.qgzxigu.fgd.xigxiyrvr.qw?gRgpu.hg.cgdzungwnwfidwg.c
xiyrvr.ugiwfiidibgmizfmiurwmghm.wigjxi ijfwgcryygfmigxizbixghrfmgwmzdi,
zubgjx.s.pigmrdgf.guihgiubizs.xw,gfm.qvmgrfgtigf.gfmigjixc.xdzu ig.c
xrfiwgdixiyna

Rgmiwrfzfigf.gwzngfmiwigfmruvw,gtqfgrfgrwgu.fgti zqwig.cgfmigwqtki f,—R
 zxigu.fgm.hg.tw iuigdng_h.xbw_gzxi,—tqfgti zqwigRg zuu.fgwjizpg.cgfmid
hrfm.qfgtifxznruvgdngrdjqxrfnagHigbrw .qxwigcxiiynghrfm.qfgwmzdig.cg.ui
c.xdg.cgwiuwqzyrfn,gzubgzxigwryiufgzt.qfgzu.fmixagHigzxigw.gbivxzbib
fmzfghig zuu.fgwjizpgwrdjyng.cgfmigui iwwzxngcqu fr.uwg.cgmqdzuguzfqxia
Rugizxyrixgzviw,grugw.dig .qufxriw,gisixngcqu fr.ughzwgxisixiufyn
wj.piug.cgzubgxivqyzfibgtngyzhagU.fmruvghzwgf..gfxrsrzygc.xgfmigMrub..
yzhvrsix,gm.hisixg.cciuwrsigrfgdzngtigf.gd.bixugfzwfiagMigfiz miwgm.h
f.gizf,gbxrup,g .mztrf,gs.rbgio xidiufgzubgqxrui,gzubgfmigyrpi,
iyiszfruvghmzfgrwgdizu,gzubgb.iwgu.fgczywiyngio qwigmrdwiycgtng zyyruv
fmiwigfmruvwgfxrcyiwa

Isixngdzugrwgfmigtqrybixg.cgzgfidjyi,g zyyibgmrwgt.bn,gf.gfmigv.bgmi
h.xwmrjw,gzcfixgzgwfnyigjqxiyngmrwg.hu,gu.xg zugmigvifg.ccgtngmzddixruv
dzxtyigruwfizbagHigzxigzyygw qyjf.xwgzubgjzrufixw,gzubg.qxgdzfixrzygrw
.qxg.hugcyiwmgzubgty..bgzubgt.uiwagZungu.tyiuiwwgtivruwgzfg.u igf.
xicruigzgdzu’wgcizfqxiw,gzungdizuuiwwg.xgwiuwqzyrfngf.grdtxqfigfmida

K.mugCzxdixgwzfgzfgmrwgb..xg.uigWijfidtixgisiuruv,gzcfixgzgmzxbgbzn’w
h.xp,gmrwgdrubgwfryygxquuruvg.ugmrwgyzt.xgd.xig.xgyiwwagMzsruvgtzfmib,
migwzfgb.hugf.gxi- xizfigmrwgrufiyyi fqzygdzuagRfghzwgzgxzfmixg ..y
isiuruv,gzubgw.dig.cgmrwguirvmt.xwghixigzjjximiubruvgzgcx.wfagMigmzb
u.fgzffiubibgf.gfmigfxzrug.cgmrwgfm.qvmfwgy.uvghmiugmigmizxbgw.dig.ui
jyznruvg.ugzgcyqfi,gzubgfmzfgw.qubgmzxd.ureibghrfmgmrwgd..bagWfryygmi
fm.qvmfg.cgmrwgh.xp;gtqfgfmigtqxbiug.cgmrwgfm.qvmfghzw,gfmzfgfm.qvm
fmrwgpijfgxquuruvgrugmrwgmizb,gzubgmigc.qubgmrdwiycgjyzuuruvgzub
 .ufxrsruvgrfgzvzruwfgmrwghryy,gnifgrfg .u ixuibgmrdgsixngyrffyiagRf
hzwgu.gd.xigfmzugfmigw qxcg.cgmrwgwpru,ghmr mghzwg .uwfzufyngwmqccyib
.ccagTqfgfmigu.fiwg.cgfmigcyqfig zdigm.digf.gmrwgizxwg.qfg.cgz
brccixiufgwjmixigcx.dgfmzfgmigh.xpibgru,gzubgwqvviwfibgh.xpgc.xg ixfzru
cz qyfriwghmr mgwyqdtixibgrugmrdagFmingviufyngbrbgzhznghrfmgfmigwfxiif,
zubgfmigsryyzvi,gzubgfmigwfzfigrughmr mgmigyrsibagZgs.r igwzrbgf.
mrd,—Hmngb.gn.qgwfzngmixigzubgyrsigfmrwgdizugd.ryruvgyrci,ghmiugz
vy.xr.qwgiorwfiu igrwgj.wwrtyigc.xgn.q?gFm.wigwzdigwfzxwgfhrupyig.six
.fmixgcriybwgfmzugfmiwia—Tqfgm.hgf.g .dig.qfg.cgfmrwg .ubrfr.ugzub
z fqzyyngdrvxzfigfmrfmix?gZyygfmzfgmig .qybgfmrupg.cghzwgf.gjxz frwi
w.diguihgzqwfixrfn,gf.gyifgmrwgdrubgbiw iubgruf.gmrwgt.bngzubgxibiid
rf,gzubgfxizfgmrdwiycghrfmgisixgru xizwruvgxiwji fa


TxqfigUirvmt.xw

W.difrdiwgRgmzbgzg .djzur.ugrugdngcrwmruv,ghm.g zdigfmx.qvmgfmigsryyzvi
f.gdngm.qwigcx.dgfmig.fmixgwrbig.cgfmigf.hu,gzubgfmig zf mruvg.cgfmi
bruuixghzwgzwgdq mgzgw. rzygioix rwigzwgfmigizfruvg.cgrfa

_Mixdrfa_gRgh.ubixghmzfgfmigh.xybgrwgb.ruvgu.hagRgmzsigu.fgmizxbgw.
dq mgzwgzgy. qwfg.sixgfmigwhiif-cixugfmiwigfmxiigm.qxwagFmigjrvi.uwgzxi
zyygzwyiijgqj.ugfmirxgx..wfw,—u.gcyqffixgcx.dgfmidagHzwgfmzfgzgczxdix’w
u..ugm.xughmr mgw.qubibgcx.dgtin.ubgfmigh..bwgkqwfgu.h?gFmigmzubwgzxi
 .druvgrugf.gt.ryibgwzyfgtiicgzubg rbixgzubgRubrzugtxizbagHmnghryygdiu
h.xxngfmidwiysiwgw.?gMigfmzfgb.iwgu.fgizfguiibgu.fgh.xpagRgh.ubixgm.h
dq mgfmingmzsigxizjibagHm.gh.qybgyrsigfmixighmixigzgt.bng zuguisix
fmrupgc.xgfmigtzxpruvg.cgT.wi?gZubg.,gfmigm.qwipiijruv!gf.gpiijgtxrvmf
fmigbisry’wgb..x-pu.tw,gzubgw .qxgmrwgfqtwgfmrwgtxrvmfgbzn!gTiffixgu.f
piijgzgm.qwiagWzn,gw.digm.yy.hgfxii;gzubgfmiugc.xgd.xuruvg zyywgzub
bruuix-jzxfriw!g.uyngzgh..bji pixgfzjjruvag.,gfmingwhzxd;gfmigwqugrw
f..ghzxdgfmixi;gfmingzxigt.xugf..gczxgruf.gyrcigc.xgdiagRgmzsighzfix
cx.dgfmigwjxruv,gzubgzgy.zcg.cgtx.hugtxizbg.ugfmigwmiyca—Mzxp!gRgmizxgz
xqwfyruvg.cgfmigyizsiwagRwgrfgw.digryy-cibgsryyzvigm.qubgnriybruvgf.
fmigruwfru fg.cgfmig mzwi?g.xgfmigy.wfgjrvghmr mgrwgwzrbgf.gtigrugfmiwi
h..bw,ghm.wigfxz pwgRgwzhgzcfixgfmigxzru?gRfg .diwg.ugzjz i;gdngwqdz mw
zubgwhiif-txrixwgfxidtyia—Im,gDxagJ.if,grwgrfgn.q?gM.hgb.gn.qgyrpigfmi
h.xybgf.-bzn?

_J.ifa_gWiigfm.wig y.qbw;gm.hgfmingmzuv!gFmzf’wgfmigvxizfiwfgfmruvgR
mzsigwiiugf.-bznagFmixi’wgu.fmruvgyrpigrfgrug.ybgjzrufruvw,gu.fmruv
yrpigrfgrugc.xirvugyzubw,—quyiwwghmiughighixig.ccgfmig .zwfg.cgWjzrua
Fmzf’wgzgfxqigDibrfixxzuizugwpnagRgfm.qvmf,gzwgRgmzsigdngyrsruvgf.gvif,
zubgmzsigu.fgizfiugf.-bzn,gfmzfgRgdrvmfgv.gz-crwmruvagFmzf’wgfmigfxqi
rubqwfxngc.xgj.ifwagRfgrwgfmig.uyngfxzbigRgmzsigyizxuibag .di,gyif’w
zy.uva

_Mixdrfa_gRg zuu.fgxiwrwfagDngtx.hugtxizbghryygw..ugtigv.uiagRghryygv.
hrfmgn.qgvyzbyngw..u,gtqfgRgzdgkqwfg .u yqbruvgzgwixr.qwgdibrfzfr.uagR
fmrupgfmzfgRgzdguizxgfmigiubg.cgrfagYizsigdigzy.ui,gfmiu,gc.xgzghmryia
Tqfgfmzfghigdzngu.fgtigbiyznib,gn.qgwmzyygtigbrvvruvgfmigtzrf
dizuhmryiagZuvyi-h.xdwgzxigxzxiyngf.gtigdifghrfmgrugfmiwigjzxfw,ghmixi
fmigw.ryghzwguisixgczffiuibghrfmgdzuqxi;gfmigxz igrwguizxyngiofru fa
Fmigwj.xfg.cgbrvvruvgfmigtzrfgrwguizxyngilqzygf.gfmzfg.cg zf mruvgfmi
crwm,ghmiug.ui’wgzjjifrfigrwgu.fgf..gpiiu;gzubgfmrwgn.qgdzngmzsigzyygf.
n.qxwiycgf.-bznagRgh.qybgzbsrwign.qgf.gwifgrugfmigwjzbigb.hugn.ubix
zd.uvgfmigvx.qub-uqfw,ghmixign.qgwiigfmigk.muwh.xfghzsruvagRgfmrupgfmzf
Rgdznghzxxzufgn.qg.uigh.xdgf.gisixngfmxiigw.bwgn.qgfqxugqj,grcgn.qgy..p
hiyygrugzd.uvgfmigx..fwg.cgfmigvxzww,gzwgrcgn.qghixighiibruvag.x,grc
n.qg m..wigf.gv.gczxfmix,grfghryygu.fgtigquhrwi,gc.xgRgmzsigc.qubgfmi
ru xizwig.cgczrxgtzrfgf.gtigsixnguizxyngzwgfmigwlqzxiwg.cgfmi
brwfzu iwa

_Mixdrfgzy.uia_gYifgdigwii;ghmixighzwgR?gDifmrupwgRghzwguizxyngrugfmrw
cxzdig.cgdrub;gfmigh.xybgyzngzt.qfgzfgfmrwgzuvyiagWmzyygRgv.gf.gmizsiu
.xgz-crwmruv?gRcgRgwm.qybgw..ugtxruvgfmrwgdibrfzfr.ugf.gzugiub,gh.qyb
zu.fmixgw.gwhiifg.  zwr.ugtigyrpiyngf.g.ccix?gRghzwgzwguizxgtiruv
xiw.ysibgruf.gfmigiwwiu ig.cgfmruvwgzwgisixgRghzwgrugdngyrciagRgcizxgdn
fm.qvmfwghryygu.fg .digtz pgf.gdiagRcgrfgh.qybgb.gzungv..b,gRgh.qyb
hmrwfyigc.xgfmidagHmiugfmingdzpigqwgzug.ccix,grwgrfghrwigf.gwzn,gHi
hryygfmrupg.cgrf?gDngfm.qvmfwgmzsigyicfgu.gfxz p,gzubgRg zuu.fgcrubgfmi
jzfmgzvzruagHmzfghzwgrfgfmzfgRghzwgfmrupruvg.c?gRfghzwgzgsixngmzengbzna
Rghryygkqwfgfxngfmiwigfmxiigwiufiu iwg.cg .u-cqf-wii;gfmingdzngcif m
fmzfgwfzfigzt.qfgzvzruagRgpu.hgu.fghmifmixgrfghzwgfmigbqdjwg.xgz
tqbbruvgi wfzwnagDidagFmixiguisixgrwgtqfg.uig.jj.xfqurfng.cgzgpruba

_J.ifa_gM.hgu.h,gMixdrf,grwgrfgf..gw..u?gRgmzsigv.fgkqwfgfmrxfiiughm.yi
.uiw,gtiwrbigwisixzyghmr mgzxigrdjixci fg.xgqubixwreib;gtqfgfminghryy
b.gc.xgfmigwdzyyixgcxn;gfmingb.gu.fg .sixgqjgfmigm..pgw.gdq magFm.wi
sryyzvigh.xdwgzxiglqrfigf..gyzxvi;gzgwmruixgdzngdzpigzgdizyg.ccg.ui
hrfm.qfgcrubruvgfmigwpihixa

_Mixdrfa_gHiyy,gfmiu,gyif’wgtig.ccagWmzyyghigf.gfmig .u .xb?gFmixi’w
v..bgwj.xfgfmixigrcgfmighzfixgtigu.fgf..gmrvma



Hmngb.gjxi rwiyngfmiwig.tki fwghmr mghigtim.ybgdzpigzgh.xyb?gHmngmzw
dzugkqwfgfmiwigwji riwg.cgzurdzywgc.xgmrwguirvmt.xw;gzwgrcgu.fmruvgtqf
zgd.qwig .qybgmzsigcryyibgfmrwg xisr i?gRgwqwji fgfmzfgJryjzng&g .a
mzsigjqfgzurdzywgf.gfmirxgtiwfgqwi,gc.xgfmingzxigzyygtizwfwg.cgtqxbiu,
rugzgwiuwi,gdzbigf.g zxxngw.digj.xfr.ug.cg.qxgfm.qvmfwa

Fmigdr ighmr mgmzqufibgdngm.qwighixigu.fgfmig .dd.ug.uiw,ghmr mgzxi
wzrbgf.gmzsigtiiugrufx.bq ibgruf.gfmig .qufxn,gtqfgzghrybguzfrsigprub
u.fgc.qubgrugfmigsryyzviagRgwiufg.uigf.gzgbrwfruvqrwmibguzfqxzyrwf,gzub
rfgrufixiwfibgmrdgdq magHmiugRghzwgtqrybruv,g.uig.cgfmiwigmzbgrfwguiwf
qubixuizfmgfmigm.qwi,gzubgtic.xigRgmzbgyzrbgfmigwi .ubgcy..x,gzubgwhijf
.qfgfmigwmzsruvw,gh.qybg .dig.qfgxivqyzxyngzfgyqu mgfrdigzubgjr pgqj
fmig xqdtwgzfgdngciifagRfgjx.tztyngmzbguisixgwiiugzgdzugtic.xi;gzubgrf
w..ugti zdiglqrfigczdryrzx,gzubgh.qybgxqug.sixgdngwm.iwgzubgqjgdn
 y.fmiwagRfg .qybgxizbryngzw iubgfmigwrbiwg.cgfmigx..dgtngwm.xf
rdjqywiw,gyrpigzgwlqrxxiy,ghmr mgrfgxiwidtyibgrugrfwgd.fr.uwagZf
yiuvfm,gzwgRgyizuibghrfmgdngiyt.hg.ugfmigtiu mg.uigbzn,grfgxzugqjgdn
 y.fmiw,gzubgzy.uvgdngwyiisi,gzubgx.qubgzubgx.qubgfmigjzjixghmr mgmiyb
dngbruuix,ghmryigRgpijfgfmigyzffixg y.wi,gzubgb.bvibgzubgjyznibgzf
t.jiijghrfmgrf;gzubghmiugzfgyzwfgRgmiybgwfryygzgjri ig.cg miiwigtifhiiu
dngfmqdtgzubgcruvix,grfg zdigzubgurttyibgrf,gwrffruvgrugdngmzub,gzub
zcfixhzxbg yizuibgrfwgcz igzubgjzhw,gyrpigzgcyn,gzubghzypibgzhzna

Zgjmœtigw..ugtqryfgrugdngwmib,gzubgzgx.trugc.xgjx.fi fr.ugrugzgjrui
hmr mgvxihgzvzruwfgfmigm.qwiagRugKquigfmigjzxfxrbvig(_Fifxz.
qdtiyyqw_,)ghmr mgrwgw.gwmngzgtrxb,gyibgmixgtx..bgjzwfgdnghrub.hw,gcx.d
fmigh..bwgrugfmigxizxgf.gfmigcx.ufg.cgdngm.qwi,g yq pruvgzubg zyyruvgf.
fmidgyrpigzgmiu,gzubgrugzyygmixgtimzsr.xgjx.sruvgmixwiycgfmigmiug.cgfmi
h..bwagFmign.quvgwqbbiuyngbrwjixwig.ugn.qxgzjjx.z m,gzfgzgwrvuzygcx.d
fmigd.fmix,gzwgrcgzghmrxyhrubgmzbgwhijfgfmidgzhzn,gzubgfmingw.gioz fyn
xiwidtyigfmigbxribgyizsiwgzubgfhrvwgfmzfgdzungzgfxzsiyixgmzwgjyz ibgmrw
c..fgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgzgtx..b,gzubgmizxbgfmighmrxg.cgfmig.ybgtrxbgzwgwmi
cyihg.cc,gzubgmixgzuor.qwg zyywgzubgdihruv,g.xgwiiugmixgfxzrygmixghruvw
f.gzffxz fgmrwgzffiufr.u,ghrfm.qfgwqwji fruvgfmirxguirvmt.xm..bagFmi
jzxiufghryygw.difrdiwgx.yygzubgwjrugx.qubgtic.xign.qgrugwq mgz
brwmztryyi,gfmzfgn.qg zuu.f,gc.xgzgcihgd.diufw,gbifi fghmzfgprubg.c
 xizfqxigrfgrwagFmign.quvgwlqzfgwfryygzubgcyzf,g.cfiugxquuruvgfmirx
mizbwgqubixgzgyizc,gzubgdrubg.uyngfmirxgd.fmix’wgbrxi fr.uwgvrsiugcx.d
zgbrwfzu i,gu.xghryygn.qxgzjjx.z mgdzpigfmidgxqugzvzrugzubgtifxzn
fmidwiysiwagN.qgdzngisiugfxizbg.ugfmid,g.xgmzsign.qxginiwg.ugfmidgc.xgz
druqfi,ghrfm.qfgbrw .sixruvgfmidagRgmzsigmiybgfmidgrugdng.jiugmzubgzf
wq mgzgfrdi,gzubgwfryygfmirxg.uyng zxi,g.tibriufgf.gfmirxgd.fmixgzub
fmirxgruwfru f,ghzwgf.gwlqzfgfmixighrfm.qfgcizxg.xgfxidtyruvagW.
jixci fgrwgfmrwgruwfru f,gfmzfg.u i,ghmiugRgmzbgyzrbgfmidg.ugfmigyizsiw
zvzru,gzubg.uigz  rbiufzyyngciyyg.ugrfwgwrbi,grfghzwgc.qubghrfmgfmi
xiwfgrugioz fyngfmigwzdigj.wrfr.ugfiugdruqfiwgzcfixhzxbagFmingzxigu.f
 zyy.hgyrpigfmign.quvg.cgd.wfgtrxbw,gtqfgd.xigjixci fyngbisiy.jibgzub
jxi . r.qwgisiugfmzug mr piuwagFmigxidzxpztyngzbqyfgnifgruu. iuf
iojxiwwr.ug.cgfmirxg.jiugzubgwixiuiginiwgrwgsixngdid.xztyiagZyy
rufiyyrviu igwiidwgxicyi fibgrugfmidagFmingwqvviwfgu.fgdixiyngfmi
jqxrfng.cgruczu n,gtqfgzghrwb.dg yzxrcribgtngiojixriu iagWq mgzugini
hzwgu.fgt.xughmiugfmigtrxbghzw,gtqfgrwg .iszyghrfmgfmigwpngrfgxicyi fwa
Fmigh..bwgb.gu.fgnriybgzu.fmixgwq mgzgvidagFmigfxzsiyyixgb.iwgu.fg.cfiu
y..pgruf.gwq mgzgyrdjrbghiyyagFmigrvu.xzufg.xgxi pyiwwgwj.xfwdzug.cfiu
wm..fwgfmigjzxiufgzfgwq mgzgfrdi,gzubgyizsiwgfmiwigruu. iufwgf.gczyygz
jxingf.gw.digjx.hyruvgtizwfg.xgtrxb,g.xgvxzbqzyyngdruvyighrfmgfmi
bi znruvgyizsiwghmr mgfmingw.gdq mgxiwidtyiagRfgrwgwzrbgfmzfghmiu
mzf mibgtngzgmiugfminghryygbrxi fyngbrwjixwig.ugw.digzyzxd,gzubgw.gzxi
y.wf,gc.xgfminguisixgmizxgfmigd.fmix’wg zyyghmr mgvzfmixwgfmidgzvzrua
Fmiwighixigdngmiuwgzubg mr piuwa

Rfgrwgxidzxpztyigm.hgdzung xizfqxiwgyrsighrybgzubgcxiigfm.qvmgwi xifgru
fmigh..bw,gzubgwfryygwqwfzrugfmidwiysiwgrugfmiguirvmt.xm..bg.cgf.huw,
wqwji fibgtngmqufixwg.uynagM.hgxifrxibgfmig.ffixgdzuzviwgf.gyrsigmixi!
Migvx.hwgf.gtigc.qxgciifgy.uv,gzwgtrvgzwgzgwdzyygt.n,gjixmzjwghrfm.qf
zungmqdzugtiruvgviffruvgzgvyrdjwig.cgmrdagRgc.xdixyngwzhgfmigxz  ..ugru
fmigh..bwgtimrubghmixigdngm.qwigrwgtqryf,gzubgjx.tztyngwfryygmizxb
fmirxghmruuixruvgzfgurvmfag .dd.uyngRgxiwfibgzugm.qxg.xgfh.grugfmi
wmzbigzfgu..u,gzcfixgjyzufruv,gzubgzfigdngyqu m,gzubgxizbgzgyrffyigtngz
wjxruvghmr mghzwgfmigw.qx ig.cgzgwhzdjgzubg.cgzgtx..p,g..eruvgcx.d
qubixgTxrwfix’wgMryy,gmzycgzgdryigcx.dgdngcriybagFmigzjjx.z mgf.gfmrw
hzwgfmx.qvmgzgwq  iwwr.ug.cgbiw iubruvgvxzwwngm.yy.hw,gcqyyg.cgn.quv
jrf m-jruiw,gruf.gzgyzxvixgh..bgzt.qfgfmigwhzdjagFmixi,grugzgsixn
wi yqbibgzubgwmzbibgwj.f,gqubixgzgwjxizbruvghmrfi-jrui,gfmixighzwgnifgz
 yizu,gcrxdgwhzxbgf.gwrfg.uagRgmzbgbqvg.qfgfmigwjxruvgzubgdzbigzghiyy
.cg yizxgvxznghzfix,ghmixigRg .qybgbrjgqjgzgjzrycqyghrfm.qfgx.ryruvgrf,
zubgfmrfmixgRghiufgc.xgfmrwgjqxj.wigzyd.wfgisixngbzngrugdrbwqddix,ghmiu
fmigj.ubghzwghzxdiwfagFmrfmix,gf..,gfmigh..b- . pgyibgmixgtx..b,gf.
jx.tigfmigdqbgc.xgh.xdw,gcynruvgtqfgzgc..fgzt.sigfmidgb.hugfmigtzup,
hmryigfmingxzugrugzgfx..jgtiuizfm;gtqfgzfgyzwf,gwjnruvgdi,gwmigh.qyb
yizsigmixgn.quvgzubg rx yigx.qubgzubgx.qubgdi,guizxixgzubguizxixgfryy
hrfmrugc.qxg.xgcrsigciif,gjxifiubruvgtx.piughruvwgzubgyivw,gf.gzffxz f
dngzffiufr.u,gzubgvifg.ccgmixgn.quv,ghm.gh.qybgzyxizbngmzsigfzpiugqj
fmirxgdzx m,ghrfmgczrufghrxngjiij,gwruvyigcryigfmx.qvmgfmigwhzdj,gzw
wmigbrxi fibag.xgRgmizxbgfmigjiijg.cgfmign.quvghmiugRg .qybgu.fgwiigfmi
jzxiufgtrxbagFmixigf..gfmigfqxfyi-b.siwgwzfg.sixgfmigwjxruv,g.x
cyqffixibgcx.dgt.qvmgf.gt.qvmg.cgfmigw.cfghmrfi-jruiwg.sixgdngmizb;g.x
fmigxibgwlqrxxiy,g .qxwruvgb.hugfmiguizxiwfgt.qvm,ghzwgjzxfr qyzxyn
czdryrzxgzubgrulqrwrfrsiagN.qg.uynguiibgwrfgwfryygy.uvgiu.qvmgrugw.di
zffxz frsigwj.fgrugfmigh..bwgfmzfgzyygrfwgrumztrfzufwgdzngiomrtrf
fmidwiysiwgf.gn.qgtngfqxuwa

Rghzwghrfuiwwgf.gisiufwg.cgzgyiwwgjiz icqyg mzxz fixag.uigbznghmiugR
hiufg.qfgf.gdngh..b-jryi,g.xgxzfmixgdngjryig.cgwfqdjw,gRg.twixsibgfh.
yzxvigzufw,gfmig.uigxib,gfmig.fmixgdq mgyzxvix,guizxyngmzycgzugru m
y.uv,gzubgtyz p,gcrix iyng .ufiubruvghrfmg.uigzu.fmixagMzsruvg.u igv.f
m.ybgfminguisixgyifgv.,gtqfgwfxqvvyibgzubghxiwfyibgzubgx.yyibg.ugfmi
 mrjwgru iwwzufynagY..pruvgczxfmix,gRghzwgwqxjxrwibgf.gcrubgfmzfgfmi
 mrjwghixig .sixibghrfmgwq mg .dtzfzufw,gfmzfgrfghzwgu.fgzg_bqiyyqd_,
tqfgzg_tiyyqd_,gzghzxgtifhiiugfh.gxz iwg.cgzufw,gfmigxibgzyhznwgjrffib
zvzruwfgfmigtyz p,gzubgcxilqiufyngfh.gxibg.uiwgf.g.uigtyz pagFmi
yivr.uwg.cgfmiwigDnxdrb.uwg .sixibgzyygfmigmryywgzubgszyiwgrugdn
h..b-nzxb,gzubgfmigvx.qubghzwgzyxizbngwfxihughrfmgfmigbizbgzubgbnruv,
t.fmgxibgzubgtyz pagRfghzwgfmig.uyngtzffyighmr mgRgmzsigisixghrfuiwwib,
fmig.uyngtzffyi-criybgRgisixgfx.bghmryigfmigtzffyighzwgxzvruv;
rufixui ruighzx;gfmigxibgxijqtyr zuwg.ugfmig.uigmzub,gzubgfmigtyz p
rdjixrzyrwfwg.ugfmig.fmixag.ugisixngwrbigfminghixigiuvzvibgrugbizbyn
 .dtzf,gnifghrfm.qfgzungu.rwigfmzfgRg .qybgmizx,gzubgmqdzugw.ybrixw
uisixgc.qvmfgw.gxiw.yqfiynagRghzf mibgzg .qjyigfmzfghixigczwfgy. pibgru
iz mg.fmix’wgidtxz iw,grugzgyrffyigwquungszyyingzdrbgfmig mrjw,gu.hgzf
u..u-bzngjxijzxibgf.gcrvmfgfryygfmigwqughiufgb.hu,g.xgyrcighiufg.qfa
Fmigwdzyyixgxibg mzdjr.ugmzbgczwfiuibgmrdwiycgyrpigzgsr igf.gmrw
zbsixwzxn’wgcx.uf,gzubgfmx.qvmgzyygfmigfqdtyruvwg.ugfmzfgcriybguisix
c.xgzugruwfzufg izwibgf.gvuzhgzfg.uig.cgmrwgciiyixwguizxgfmigx..f,
mzsruvgzyxizbng zqwibgfmig.fmixgf.gv.gtngfmigt.zxb;ghmryigfmigwfx.uvix
tyz pg.uigbzwmibgmrdgcx.dgwrbigf.gwrbi,gzub,gzwgRgwzhg.ugy..pruv
uizxix,gmzbgzyxizbngbrsiwfibgmrdg.cgwisixzyg.cgmrwgdidtixwagFmingc.qvmf
hrfmgd.xigjixfruz rfngfmzugtqyy-b.vwagUirfmixgdzurciwfibgfmigyizwf
brwj.wrfr.ugf.gxifxizfagRfghzwgisrbiufgfmzfgfmirxgtzffyi- xnghzw
 .ulqixg.xgbriagRugfmigdizughmryigfmixig zdigzy.uvgzgwruvyigxibgzufg.u
fmigmryy-wrbig.cgfmrwgszyyin,gisrbiufyngcqyyg.cgio rfidiuf,ghm.girfmix
mzbgbiwjzf mibgmrwgc.i,g.xgmzbgu.fgnifgfzpiugjzxfgrugfmigtzffyi;
jx.tztyngfmigyzffix,gc.xgmigmzbgy.wfgu.uig.cgmrwgyrdtw;ghm.wigd.fmix
mzbg mzxvibgmrdgf.gxifqxughrfmgmrwgwmriybg.xgqj.ugrfag.xgjix mzu igmi
hzwgw.digZ mryyiw,ghm.gmzbgu.qxrwmibgmrwghxzfmgzjzxf,gzubgmzbgu.hg .di
f.gzsiuvig.xgxiw qigmrwgJzfx. yqwagMigwzhgfmrwgquilqzyg .dtzfgcx.d
zczx,—c.xgfmigtyz pwghixiguizxyngfhr igfmigwreig.cgfmigxib,—migbxih
uizxghrfmgxzjrbgjz igfryygmigwf..bg.ugmrwgvqzxbghrfmrugmzycgzugru mg.c
fmig .dtzfzufw;gfmiu,ghzf mruvgmrwg.jj.xfqurfn,gmigwjxzuvgqj.ugfmi
tyz pghzxxr.x,gzubg .ddiu ibgmrwg.jixzfr.uwguizxgfmigx..fg.cgmrwgxrvmf
c.xi-yiv,gyizsruvgfmigc.igf.gwiyi fgzd.uvgmrwg.hugdidtixw;gzubgw.gfmixi
hixigfmxiigqurfibgc.xgyrci,gzwgrcgzguihgprubg.cgzffxz fr.ugmzbgtiiu
rusiufibghmr mgjqfgzyyg.fmixgy. pwgzubg idiufwgf.gwmzdiagRgwm.qybgu.f
mzsigh.ubixibgtngfmrwgfrdigf.gcrubgfmzfgfmingmzbgfmirxgxiwji frsi
dqwr zygtzubwgwfzfr.uibg.ugw.digidruiufg mrj,gzubgjyznruvgfmirx
uzfr.uzygzrxwgfmighmryi,gf.gio rfigfmigwy.hgzubg miixgfmigbnruv
 .dtzfzufwagRghzwgdnwiycgio rfibgw.dihmzfgisiugzwgrcgfmingmzbgtiiugdiua
Fmigd.xign.qgfmrupg.cgrf,gfmigyiwwgfmigbrccixiu iagZubg ixfzruyngfmixi
rwgu.fgfmigcrvmfgxi .xbibgrug .u .xbgmrwf.xn,gzfgyizwf,grcgrugfmi
mrwf.xng.cgZdixr z,gfmzfghryygtizxgzgd.diuf’wg .djzxrw.ughrfmgfmrw,
hmifmixgc.xgfmiguqdtixwgiuvzvibgrugrf,g.xgc.xgfmigjzfxr.frwdgzub
mix.rwdgbrwjyznibagC.xguqdtixwgzubgc.xg zxuzvigrfghzwgzugZqwfixyrfeg.x
Bxiwbiuag .u .xbgCrvmf!gFh.gpryyibg.ugfmigjzfxr.fw’gwrbi,gzubgYqfmix
Tyzu mzxbgh.qubib!gHmngmixigisixngzufghzwgzgTqffxr p,—“Crxi!gc.xgV.b’w
wzpigcrxi!”—zubgfm.qwzubwgwmzxibgfmigczfig.cgBzsrwgzubgM.wdixagFmixi
hzwgu.fg.uigmrxiyruvgfmixiagRgmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzfgrfghzwgzgjxru rjyi
fmingc.qvmfgc.x,gzwgdq mgzwg.qxgzu iwf.xw,gzubgu.fgf.gzs.rbgz
fmxii-jiuungfzog.ugfmirxgfiz;gzubgfmigxiwqyfwg.cgfmrwgtzffyighryygtigzw
rdj.xfzufgzubgdid.xztyigf.gfm.wighm.dgrfg .u ixuwgzwgfm.wig.cgfmi
tzffyig.cgTqupixgMryy,gzfgyizwfa

Rgf..pgqjgfmig mrjg.ughmr mgfmigfmxiigRgmzsigjzxfr qyzxyngbiw xrtib
hixigwfxqvvyruv,g zxxribgrfgruf.gdngm.qwi,gzubgjyz ibgrfgqubixgz
fqdtyixg.ugdnghrub.h-wryy,grug.xbixgf.gwiigfmigrwwqiagM.ybruvgz
dr x.w .jigf.gfmigcrxwf-diufr.uibgxibgzuf,gRgwzhgfmzf,gfm.qvmgmighzw
zwwrbq.qwyngvuzhruvgzfgfmiguizxgc.xi-yivg.cgmrwgiuidn,gmzsruvgwisixib
mrwgxidzruruvgciiyix,gmrwg.hugtxizwfghzwgzyygf.xugzhzn,gioj.wruvghmzf
srfzywgmigmzbgfmixigf.gfmigkzhwg.cgfmigtyz pghzxxr.x,ghm.wigtxizwfjyzfi
hzwgzjjzxiufyngf..gfmr pgc.xgmrdgf.gjrix i;gzubgfmigbzxpg zxtqu yiwg.c
fmigwqccixix’wginiwgwm.uighrfmgcix. rfngwq mgzwghzxg.uyng .qybgio rfia
Fmingwfxqvvyibgmzycgzugm.qxgy.uvixgqubixgfmigfqdtyix,gzubghmiugRgy..pib
zvzrugfmigtyz pgw.ybrixgmzbgwisixibgfmigmizbwg.cgmrwgc.iwgcx.dgfmirx
t.briw,gzubgfmigwfryygyrsruvgmizbwghixigmzuvruvg.ugirfmixgwrbig.cgmrd
yrpigvmzwfyngfx.jmriwgzfgmrwgwzbbyi-t.h,gwfryygzjjzxiufyngzwgcrxdyn
czwfiuibgzwgisix,gzubgmighzwgiubizs.xruvghrfmgciityigwfxqvvyiw,gtiruv
hrfm.qfgciiyixwgzubghrfmg.uyngfmigxiduzufg.cgzgyiv,gzubgRgpu.hgu.fgm.h
dzung.fmixgh.qubw,gf.gbrsiwfgmrdwiycg.cgfmid;ghmr mgzfgyiuvfm,gzcfix
mzycgzugm.qxgd.xi,gmigz  .djyrwmibagRgxzrwibgfmigvyzww,gzubgmighiufg.cc
.sixgfmighrub.h-wryygrugfmzfg xrjjyibgwfzfiagHmifmixgmigcruzyyn
wqxsrsibgfmzfg .dtzf,gzubgwjiufgfmigxidzrubixg.cgmrwgbznwgrugw.digM.fiy
biwgRuszyrbiw,gRgb.gu.fgpu.h;gtqfgRgfm.qvmfgfmzfgmrwgrubqwfxngh.qybgu.f
tigh.xfmgdq mgfmixizcfixagRguisixgyizxuibghmr mgjzxfnghzwgsr f.xr.qw,
u.xgfmig zqwig.cgfmighzx;gtqfgRgciyfgc.xgfmigxiwfg.cgfmzfgbzngzwgrcgR
mzbgmzbgdngciiyruvwgio rfibgzubgmzxx.hibgtnghrfuiwwruvgfmigwfxqvvyi,
fmigcix. rfngzubg zxuzvi,g.cgzgmqdzugtzffyigtic.xigdngb..xa

PrxtngzubgWjiu igfiyygqwgfmzfgfmigtzffyiwg.cgzufwgmzsigy.uvgtiiu
 iyitxzfibgzubgfmigbzfig.cgfmidgxi .xbib,gfm.qvmgfmingwzngfmzfgMqtixgrw
fmig.uyngd.bixugzqfm.xghm.gzjjizxwgf.gmzsighrfuiwwibgfmidag“Æuizw
Wnysrqw,”gwzngfmin,g“zcfixgvrsruvgzgsixng rx qdwfzufrzygz  .qufg.cg.ui
 .ufiwfibghrfmgvxizfg.twfruz ngtngzgvxizfgzubgwdzyygwji riwg.ugfmi
fxqupg.cgzgjizxgfxii,”gzbbwgfmzfg“‘Fmrwgz fr.ughzwgc.qvmfgrugfmi
j.ufrcr zfig.cgIqviurqwgfmigC.qxfm,grugfmigjxiwiu ig.cgUr m.yzw
Jrwf.xriuwrw,gzugidruiufgyzhnix,ghm.gxiyzfibgfmighm.yigmrwf.xng.cgfmi
tzffyighrfmgfmigvxizfiwfgcrbiyrfna’gZgwrdryzxgiuvzvidiufgtifhiiugvxizf
zubgwdzyygzufwgrwgxi .xbibgtng.yzqwgDzvuqw,grughmr mgfmigwdzyyg.uiw,
tiruvgsr f.xr.qw,gzxigwzrbgf.gmzsigtqxribgfmigt.briwg.cgfmirxg.hu
w.ybrixw,gtqfgyicfgfm.wig.cgfmirxgvrzufgiuidriwgzgjxingf.gfmigtrxbwa
Fmrwgisiufgmzjjiuibgjxisr.qwgf.gfmigiojqywr.ug.cgfmigfnxzufg mxrwfrixu
fmigWi .ubgcx.dgWhibiua”gFmigtzffyighmr mgRghrfuiwwibgf..pgjyz igrugfmi
Jxiwrbiu ng.cgJ.yp,gcrsignizxwgtic.xigfmigjzwwzvig.cgHitwfix’w
Cqvrfrsi-WyzsigTryya

DzungzgsryyzvigT.wi,gcrfg.uyngf.g .qxwigzgdqb-fqxfyigrugzgsr fqzyyruv
 iyyzx,gwj.xfibgmrwgmizsnglqzxfixwgrugfmigh..bw,ghrfm.qfgfmigpu.hyibvi
.cgmrwgdzwfix,gzubgruicci fqzyyngwdiyyibgzfg.ybgc.ogtqxx.hwgzub
h..b mq pw’gm.yiw;gyibgjix mzu igtngw.digwyrvmfg qxghmr mgurdtyn
fmxizbibgfmigh..b,gzubgdrvmfgwfryygruwjrxigzguzfqxzygfixx.xgrugrfw
biureiuw;—u.hgczxgtimrubgmrwgvqrbi,gtzxpruvgyrpigzg zuruigtqyygf.hzxb
w.digwdzyygwlqrxxiyghmr mgmzbgfxiibgrfwiycgc.xgw xqfrun,gfmiu,
 zufixruvg.cc,gtiubruvgfmigtqwmiwghrfmgmrwghirvmf,grdzvruruvgfmzfgmigrw
.ugfmigfxz pg.cgw.digwfxzngdidtixg.cgfmigkixtryyzgczdrynag.u igRghzw
wqxjxrwibgf.gwiigzg zfghzypruvgzy.uvgfmigwf.ungwm.xig.cgfmigj.ub,gc.x
fmingxzxiynghzubixgw.gczxgcx.dgm.diagFmigwqxjxrwighzwgdqfqzya
Uisixfmiyiwwgfmigd.wfgb.diwfr g zf,ghmr mgmzwgyzrug.ugzgxqvgzyygmix
bznw,gzjjizxwglqrfigzfgm.digrugfmigh..bw,gzub,gtngmixgwyngzubgwfizyfmn
timzsr.x,gjx.siwgmixwiycgd.xiguzfrsigfmixigfmzugfmigxivqyzx
rumztrfzufwag.u i,ghmiugtixxnruv,gRgdifghrfmgzg zfghrfmgn.quvgprffiuw
rugfmigh..bw,glqrfighryb,gzubgfmingzyy,gyrpigfmirxgd.fmix,gmzbgfmirx
tz pwgqjgzubghixigcrix iyngwjrffruvgzfgdiagZgcihgnizxwgtic.xigRgyrsib
rugfmigh..bwgfmixighzwghmzfghzwg zyyibgzg“hruvibg zf”grug.uig.cgfmi
czxd-m.qwiwgrugYru .yuguizxiwfgfmigj.ub,gDxagVryrzugTzpix’wagHmiugR
 zyyibgf.gwiigmixgrugKqui,g1842,gwmighzwgv.uigz-mqufruvgrugfmigh..bw,
zwghzwgmixgh.uf,g(Rgzdgu.fgwqxighmifmixgrfghzwgzgdzyig.xgcidzyi,gzubgw.
qwigfmigd.xig .dd.ugjx.u.qu,)gtqfgmixgdrwfxiwwgf.ybgdigfmzfgwmig zdi
ruf.gfmiguirvmt.xm..bgzgyrffyigd.xigfmzugzgnizxgtic.xi,grugZjxry,gzub
hzwgcruzyyngfzpiugruf.gfmirxgm.qwi;gfmzfgwmighzwg.cgzgbzxp
tx.hurwm-vxzng .y.x,ghrfmgzghmrfigwj.fg.ugmixgfmx.zf,gzubghmrfigciif,
zubgmzbgzgyzxvigtqwmngfzrygyrpigzgc.o;gfmzfgrugfmighrufixgfmigcqxgvxih
fmr pgzubgcyzffibg.qfgzy.uvgmixgwrbiw,gc.xdruvgwfxrjiwgfiug.xgfhiysi
ru miwgy.uvgtngfh.gzubgzgmzycghrbi,gzubgqubixgmixg mrugyrpigzgdqcc,gfmi
qjjixgwrbigy..wi,gfmigqubixgdzffibgyrpigciyf,gzubgrugfmigwjxruvgfmiwi
zjjiubzviwgbx.jjibg.ccagFmingvzsigdigzgjzrxg.cgmixg“hruvw,”ghmr mgR
piijgwfryyagFmixigrwgu.gzjjizxzu ig.cgzgdidtxzuigzt.qfgfmidagW.di
fm.qvmfgrfghzwgjzxfgcynruv-wlqrxxiyg.xgw.dig.fmixghrybgzurdzy,ghmr mgrw
u.fgrdj.wwrtyi,gc.x,gz  .xbruvgf.guzfqxzyrwfw,gjx.yrcr gmntxrbwgmzsi
tiiugjx.bq ibgtngfmigqur.ug.cgfmigdzxfiugzubgb.diwfr g zfagFmrwgh.qyb
mzsigtiiugfmigxrvmfgprubg.cg zfgc.xgdigf.gpiij,grcgRgmzbgpijfgzun;gc.x
hmngwm.qybgu.fgzgj.if’wg zfgtighruvibgzwghiyygzwgmrwgm.xwi?

Rugfmigczyygfmigy..ug(_ .yndtqwgvyz rzyrw_)g zdi,gzwgqwqzy,gf.gd.qyf
zubgtzfmigrugfmigj.ub,gdzpruvgfmigh..bwgxruvghrfmgmrwghrybgyzqvmfix
tic.xigRgmzbgxrwiuagZfgxqd.xg.cgmrwgzxxrszygzyygfmigDryy-bzdgwj.xfwdiu
zxig.ugfmigzyixf,grugvrvwgzubg.ugc..f,gfh.gtngfh.gzubgfmxiigtngfmxii,
hrfmgjzfiufgxrcyiwgzubg .ur zygtzyywgzubgwjn-vyzwwiwagFming .di
xqwfyruvgfmx.qvmgfmigh..bwgyrpigzqfqdugyizsiw,gzfgyizwfgfiugdiugf.g.ui
y..uagW.digwfzfr.ugfmidwiysiwg.ugfmrwgwrbig.cgfmigj.ub,gw.dig.ugfmzf,
c.xgfmigj..xgtrxbg zuu.fgtig.durjxiwiuf;grcgmigbrsigmixigmigdqwfg .di
qjgfmixiagTqfgu.hgfmigprubg. f.tixghrubgxrwiw,gxqwfyruvgfmigyizsiwgzub
xrjjyruvgfmigwqxcz ig.cgfmighzfix,gw.gfmzfgu.gy..ug zugtigmizxbg.x
wiiu,gfm.qvmgmrwgc.iwgwhiijgfmigj.ubghrfmgwjn-vyzwwiw,gzubgdzpigfmi
h..bwgxiw.qubghrfmgfmirxgbrw mzxviwagFmighzsiwgviuix.qwyngxrwigzubgbzwm
zuvxryn,gfzpruvgwrbiwghrfmgzyyghzfix-c.hy,gzubg.qxgwj.xfwdiugdqwfgtizf
zgxifxizfgf.gf.hugzubgwm.jgzubgqucrurwmibgk.twagTqfgfminghixigf..g.cfiu
wq  iwwcqyagHmiugRghiufgf.gvifgzgjzryg.cghzfixgizxyngrugfmigd.xuruvgR
cxilqiufyngwzhgfmrwgwfzfiyngtrxbgwzryruvg.qfg.cgdng .sighrfmrugzgcih
x.bwagRcgRgiubizs.xibgf.g.sixfzpigmrdgrugzgt.zf,grug.xbixgf.gwiigm.hgmi
h.qybgdzuœqsxi,gmigh.qybgbrsigzubgtig .djyifiyngy.wf,gw.gfmzfgRgbrbgu.f
brw .sixgmrdgzvzru,gw.difrdiw,gfryygfmigyzffixgjzxfg.cgfmigbznagTqfgR
hzwgd.xigfmzugzgdzf mgc.xgmrdg.ugfmigwqxcz iagMig .dd.uynghiufg.ccgrugz
xzrua

ZwgRghzwgjzbbyruvgzy.uvgfmigu.xfmgwm.xig.uigsixng zydg. f.tix
zcfixu..u,gc.xgwq mgbznwgiwji rzyyngfmingwiffyig.ugf.gfmigyzpiw,gyrpi
fmigdryphiibgb.hu,gmzsruvgy..pibgrugszrug.sixgfmigj.ubgc.xgzgy..u,
wqbbiuyng.ui,gwzryruvg.qfgcx.dgfmigwm.xigf.hzxbgfmigdrbbyigzgcihgx.bw
rugcx.ufg.cgdi,gwifgqjgmrwghrybgyzqvmgzubgtifxznibgmrdwiycagRgjqxwqib
hrfmgzgjzbbyigzubgmigbrsib,gtqfghmiugmig zdigqjgRghzwguizxixgfmzu
tic.xiagMigbrsibgzvzru,gtqfgRgdrw zy qyzfibgfmigbrxi fr.ugmigh.qyb
fzpi,gzubghighixigcrcfngx.bwgzjzxfghmiugmig zdigf.gfmigwqxcz igfmrw
frdi,gc.xgRgmzbgmiyjibgf.ghrbiugfmigrufixszy;gzubgzvzrugmigyzqvmibgy.uv
zubgy.qb,gzubghrfmgd.xigxizw.ugfmzugtic.xiagMigdzuœqsxibgw.g quuruvyn
fmzfgRg .qybgu.fgvifghrfmrugmzycgzgb.eiugx.bwg.cgmrdagIz mgfrdi,ghmiu
mig zdigf.gfmigwqxcz i,gfqxuruvgmrwgmizbgfmrwghzngzubgfmzf,gmig ..yn
wqxsinibgfmighzfixgzubgfmigyzub,gzubgzjjzxiufyng m.wigmrwg .qxwigw.
fmzfgmigdrvmfg .digqjghmixigfmixighzwgfmighrbiwfgiojzuwig.cghzfixgzub
zfgfmigvxizfiwfgbrwfzu igcx.dgfmigt.zfagRfghzwgwqxjxrwruvgm.hglqr pyn
migdzbigqjgmrwgdrubgzubgjqfgmrwgxiw.ysigruf.gioi qfr.uagMigyibgdigzf
.u igf.gfmighrbiwfgjzxfg.cgfmigj.ub,gzubg .qybgu.fgtigbxrsiugcx.dgrfa
Hmryigmighzwgfmrupruvg.uigfmruvgrugmrwgtxzru,gRghzwgiubizs.xruvgf.
brsruigmrwgfm.qvmfgrugdruiagRfghzwgzgjxiffngvzdi,gjyznibg.ugfmigwd..fm
wqxcz ig.cgfmigj.ub,gzgdzugzvzruwfgzgy..uagWqbbiuyngn.qxgzbsixwzxn’w
 mi pixgbrwzjjizxwgtiuizfmgfmigt.zxb,gzubgfmigjx.tyidgrwgf.gjyz ign.qxw
uizxiwfgf.ghmixigmrwghryygzjjizxgzvzruagW.difrdiwgmigh.qybg .digqj
quioji fibyng.ugfmig.jj.wrfigwrbig.cgdi,gmzsruvgzjjzxiufyngjzwwib
brxi fyngqubixgfmigt.zfagW.gy.uv-hrubibghzwgmigzubgw.gquhizxrztyi,gfmzf
hmiugmigmzbgwhqdgczxfmiwfgmigh.qybgrddibrzfiyngjyquvigzvzru,
uisixfmiyiww;gzubgfmiugu.ghrfg .qybgbrsruighmixigrugfmigbiijgj.ub,
tiuizfmgfmigwd..fmgwqxcz i,gmigdrvmfgtigwjiibruvgmrwghzngyrpigzgcrwm,
c.xgmigmzbgfrdigzubgztryrfngf.gsrwrfgfmigt.ff.dg.cgfmigj.ubgrugrfw
biijiwfgjzxfagRfgrwgwzrbgfmzfgy..uwgmzsigtiiug zqvmfgrugfmigUihgN.xp
yzpiwgirvmfngciifgtiuizfmgfmigwqxcz i,ghrfmgm..pwgwifgc.xgfx.qf,—fm.qvm
HzybiugrwgbiijixgfmzugfmzfagM.hgwqxjxrwibgdqwfgfmigcrwmiwgtigf.gwii
fmrwgquvzruyngsrwrf.xgcx.dgzu.fmixgwjmixigwjiibruvgmrwghzngzdrbgfmirx
w m..yw!gNifgmigzjjizxibgf.gpu.hgmrwg .qxwigzwgwqxiyngqubixghzfixgzwg.u
fmigwqxcz i,gzubgwhzdgdq mgczwfixgfmixiag.u ig.xgfhr igRgwzhgzgxrjjyi
hmixigmigzjjx.z mibgfmigwqxcz i,gkqwfgjqfgmrwgmizbg.qfgf.gxi .uu.rfxi,
zubgruwfzufyngbrsibgzvzruagRgc.qubgfmzfgrfghzwgzwghiyygc.xgdigf.gxiwf
.ugdng.zxwgzubghzrfgmrwgxizjjizxruvgzwgf.giubizs.xgf.g zy qyzfighmixi
migh.qybgxrwi;gc.xgzvzrugzubgzvzru,ghmiugRghzwgwfxzruruvgdnginiwg.six
fmigwqxcz ig.uighzn,gRgh.qybgwqbbiuyngtigwfzxfyibgtngmrwgquizxfmyn
yzqvmgtimrubgdiagTqfghmn,gzcfixgbrwjyznruvgw.gdq mg quuruv,gbrbgmi
ruszxrztyngtifxzngmrdwiycgfmigd.diufgmig zdigqjgtngfmzfgy.qbgyzqvm?gBrb
u.fgmrwghmrfigtxizwfgiu.qvmgtifxzngmrd?gMighzwgrubiibgzgwryyngy..u,gR
fm.qvmfagRg .qybg .dd.uyngmizxgfmigwjyzwmg.cgfmighzfixghmiugmig zdigqj,
zubgw.gzyw.gbifi fibgmrdagTqfgzcfixgzugm.qxgmigwiidibgzwgcxiwmgzwgisix,
brsibgzwghryyruvyngzubgwhzdgnifgczxfmixgfmzugzfgcrxwfagRfghzw
wqxjxrwruvgf.gwiigm.hgwixiuiyngmigwzryibg.ccghrfmgquxqccyibgtxizwfghmiu
mig zdigf.gfmigwqxcz i,gb.ruvgzyygfmigh.xpghrfmgmrwghittibgciif
tiuizfmagMrwgqwqzygu.fighzwgfmrwgbid.urz gyzqvmfix,gnifgw.dihmzfgyrpi
fmzfg.cgzghzfix-c.hy;gtqfg.  zwr.uzyyn,ghmiugmigmzbgtzypibgdigd.wf
wq  iwwcqyyngzubg .digqjgzgy.uvghzng.cc,gmigqffixibgzgy.uv-bxzhu
quizxfmyngm.hy,gjx.tztyngd.xigyrpigfmzfg.cgzgh.ycgfmzugzungtrxb;gzw
hmiugzgtizwfgjqfwgmrwgdqeeyigf.gfmigvx.qubgzubgbiyrtixzfiyngm.hywagFmrw
hzwgmrwgy..uruv,—jixmzjwgfmighrybiwfgw.qubgfmzfgrwgisixgmizxbgmixi,
dzpruvgfmigh..bwgxruvgczxgzubghrbiagRg .u yqbibgfmzfgmigyzqvmibgru
bixrwr.ug.cgdngicc.xfw,g .ucrbiufg.cgmrwg.hugxiw.qx iwagFm.qvmgfmigwpn
hzwgtngfmrwgfrdig.six zwf,gfmigj.ubghzwgw.gwd..fmgfmzfgRg .qybgwii
hmixigmigtx.pigfmigwqxcz ighmiugRgbrbgu.fgmizxgmrdagMrwghmrfigtxizwf,
fmigwfryyuiwwg.cgfmigzrx,gzubgfmigwd..fmuiwwg.cgfmighzfixghixigzyy
zvzruwfgmrdagZfgyiuvfm,gmzsruvg .digqjgcrcfngx.bwg.cc,gmigqffixibg.ui
.cgfm.wigjx.y.uvibgm.hyw,gzwgrcg zyyruvg.ugfmigv.bg.cgy..uwgf.gzrbgmrd,
zubgrddibrzfiyngfmixig zdigzghrubgcx.dgfmigizwfgzubgxrjjyibgfmi
wqxcz i,gzubgcryyibgfmighm.yigzrxghrfmgdrwfngxzru,gzubgRghzwgrdjxiwwib
zwgrcgrfghixigfmigjxznixg.cgfmigy..ugzuwhixib,gzubgmrwgv.bghzwgzuvxn
hrfmgdi;gzubgw.gRgyicfgmrdgbrwzjjizxruvgczxgzhzng.ugfmigfqdqyfq.qw
wqxcz ia

C.xgm.qxw,grugczyygbznw,gRghzf mibgfmigbq pwg quuruvyngfz pgzubgsiix
zubgm.ybgfmigdrbbyig.cgfmigj.ub,gczxgcx.dgfmigwj.xfwdzu;gfxr pwghmr m
fminghryygmzsigyiwwguiibgf.gjxz frwigrugY.qrwrzuzgtzn.qwagHmiu
 .djiyyibgf.gxrwigfmingh.qybgw.difrdiwg rx yigx.qubgzubgx.qubgzubg.six
fmigj.ubgzfgzg .uwrbixztyigmirvmf,gcx.dghmr mgfming .qybgizwryngwiigf.
.fmixgj.ubwgzubgfmigxrsix,gyrpigtyz pgd.fiwgrugfmigwpn;gzub,ghmiugR
fm.qvmfgfmingmzbgv.uig.ccgfmrfmixgy.uvgwru i,gfmingh.qybgwiffyigb.hugtn
zgwyzufruvgcyrvmfg.cgzglqzxfixg.cgzgdryig.ugf.gzgbrwfzufgjzxfghmr mghzw
yicfgcxii;gtqfghmzfgtiwrbigwzcifngfmingv.fgtngwzryruvgrugfmigdrbbyig.c
HzybiugRgb.gu.fgpu.h,gquyiwwgfmingy.sigrfwghzfixgc.xgfmigwzdigxizw.u
fmzfgRgb.a


M.qwi-Hzxdruv

Rug. f.tixgRghiufgz-vxzjruvgf.gfmigxrsixgdizb.hw,gzubgy.zbibgdnwiyc
hrfmg yqwfixwgd.xigjxi r.qwgc.xgfmirxgtizqfngzubgcxzvxzu igfmzugc.x
c..bagFmixigf..gRgzbdrxib,gfm.qvmgRgbrbgu.fgvzfmix,gfmig xzutixxriw,
wdzyyghzoiugvidw,gjiubzufwg.cgfmigdizb.hgvxzww,gjizxyngzubgxib,ghmr m
fmigczxdixgjyq pwghrfmgzugqvyngxzpi,gyizsruvgfmigwd..fmgdizb.hgrugz
wuzxy,gmiibyiwwyngdizwqxruvgfmidgtngfmigtqwmiygzubgfmigb.yyzxg.uyn,gzub
wiyywgfmigwj.rywg.cgfmigdizbwgf.gT.wf.ugzubgUihgN.xp;gbiwfruibgf.gti
_kzddib_,gf.gwzfrwcngfmigfzwfiwg.cgy.sixwg.cgUzfqxigfmixiagW.gtqf mixw
xzpigfmigf.uvqiwg.cgtrw.ug.qfg.cgfmigjxzrxrigvxzww,gxivzxbyiwwg.cgfmi
f.xugzubgbx..jruvgjyzufagFmigtzxtixxn’wgtxryyrzufgcxqrfghzwgyrpihrwi
c..bgc.xgdnginiwgdixiyn;gtqfgRg .yyi fibgzgwdzyygwf.xig.cghrybgzjjyiw
c.xg .bbyruv,ghmr mgfmigjx.jxrif.xgzubgfxzsiyyixwgmzbg.sixy..pibagHmiu
 miwfuqfwghixigxrjigRgyzrbgqjgmzycgzgtqwmiygc.xghrufixagRfghzwgsixn
io rfruvgzfgfmzfgwizw.ugf.gx.zdgfmigfmiugt.qubyiwwg miwfuqfgh..bwg.c
Yru .yu,—fmingu.hgwyiijgfmirxgy.uvgwyiijgqubixgfmigxzryx.zb,—hrfmgzgtzv
.ugdngwm.qybix,gzubgzgwfr pgf.g.jiugtqxxwghrfmgrugdngmzub,gc.xgRgbrb
u.fgzyhznwghzrfgc.xgfmigcx.wf,gzdrbgfmigxqwfyruvg.cgyizsiwgzubgfmigy.qb
xijx..cwg.cgfmigxib-wlqrxxiywgzubgfmigkznw,ghm.wigmzyc- .uwqdibguqfwgR
w.difrdiwgwf.yi,gc.xgfmigtqxxwghmr mgfmingmzbgwiyi fibghixigwqxigf.
 .ufzrugw.qubg.uiwag.  zwr.uzyyngRg yrdtibgzubgwm..pgfmigfxiiwagFmin
vxihgzyw.gtimrubgdngm.qwi,gzubg.uigyzxvigfxii,ghmr mgzyd.wf
.sixwmzb.hibgrf,ghzw,ghmiugrugcy.hix,gzgt.qlqifghmr mgw iufibgfmighm.yi
uirvmt.xm..b,gtqfgfmigwlqrxxiywgzubgfmigkznwgv.fgd.wfg.cgrfwgcxqrf;gfmi
yzwfg .druvgrugcy. pwgizxyngrugfmigd.xuruvgzubgjr pruvgfmiguqfwg.qfg.c
fmigtqxxwgtic.xigfmingciyyagRgxiyrulqrwmibgfmiwigfxiiwgf.gfmidgzub
srwrfibgfmigd.xigbrwfzufgh..bwg .dj.wibghm.yyng.cg miwfuqfagFmiwiguqfw,
zwgczxgzwgfminghiuf,ghixigzgv..bgwqtwfrfqfigc.xgtxizbagDzung.fmix
wqtwfrfqfiwgdrvmf,gjixmzjw,gtigc.qubagBrvvruvg.uigbzngc.xgcrwm-h.xdw,gR
brw .sixibgfmigvx.qub-uqfg(_Zjr.wgfqtix.wz_)g.ugrfwgwfxruv,gfmigj.fzf.
.cgfmigzt.xrvruiw,gzgw.xfg.cgcztqy.qwgcxqrf,ghmr mgRgmzbgtivqugf.gb.qtf
rcgRgmzbgisixgbqvgzubgizfiugrug mrybm..b,gzwgRgmzbgf.yb,gzubgmzbgu.f
bxizdibgrfagRgmzbg.cfiugwru igwiiugrfwg xrdjyibgxibgsiysifngty.ww.d
wqjj.xfibgtngfmigwfidwg.cg.fmixgjyzufwghrfm.qfgpu.hruvgrfgf.gtigfmi
wzdiag qyfrszfr.ugmzwghiyygurvmgiofixdruzfibgrfagRfgmzwgzgwhiifrwm
fzwfi,gdq mgyrpigfmzfg.cgzgcx.wftrffiugj.fzf.,gzubgRgc.qubgrfgtiffix
t.ryibgfmzugx.zwfibagFmrwgfqtixgwiidibgyrpigzgczrufgjx.drwig.cgUzfqxi
f.gxizxgmixg.hug mrybxiugzubgciibgfmidgwrdjyngmixigzfgw.digcqfqxi
jixr.bagRugfmiwigbznwg.cgczffibg zffyigzubghzsruvgvxzru-criybwgfmrw
mqdtyigx..f,ghmr mghzwg.u igfmig_f.fid_g.cgzugRubrzugfxrti,grwglqrfi
c.xv.ffiu,g.xgpu.hug.uyngtngrfwgcy.hixruvgsrui;gtqfgyifghrybgUzfqxi
xirvugmixig.u igd.xi,gzubgfmigfiubixgzubgyqoqxr.qwgIuvyrwmgvxzruwghryy
jx.tztyngbrwzjjizxgtic.xigzgdnxrzbg.cgc.iw,gzubghrfm.qfgfmig zxig.cgdzu
fmig x.hgdzng zxxngtz pgisiugfmigyzwfgwiibg.cg .xugf.gfmigvxizf
 .xucriybg.cgfmigRubrzu’wgV.bgrugfmigw.qfm-hiwf,ghmiu igmigrwgwzrbgf.
mzsigtx.qvmfgrf;gtqfgfmigu.hgzyd.wfgiofixdruzfibgvx.qub-uqfghryy
jixmzjwgxisrsigzubgcy.qxrwmgrugwjrfig.cgcx.wfwgzubghrybuiww,gjx.si
rfwiycgrubrviu.qw,gzubgxiwqdigrfwgzu riufgrdj.xfzu igzubgbrvurfngzwgfmi
brifg.cgfmigmqufixgfxrtiagW.digRubrzug ixiwg.xgDruixszgdqwfgmzsigtiiu
fmigrusiuf.xgzubgtiwf.hixg.cgrf;gzubghmiugfmigxirvug.cgj.ifxng .ddiu iw
mixi,grfwgyizsiwgzubgwfxruvg.cguqfwgdzngtigxijxiwiufibg.ug.qxgh.xpwg.c
zxfa

Zyxizbn,gtngfmigcrxwfg.cgWijfidtix,gRgmzbgwiiugfh.g.xgfmxiigwdzyy
dzjyiwgfqxuibgw zxyifgz x.wwgfmigj.ub,gtiuizfmghmixigfmighmrfigwfidwg.c
fmxiigzwjiuwgbrsixvib,gzfgfmigj.rufg.cgzgjx.d.uf.xn,guiofgfmighzfixa
Zm,gdzungzgfzyigfmirxg .y.xgf.yb!gZubgvxzbqzyyngcx.dghiipgf.ghiipgfmi
 mzxz fixg.cgiz mgfxiig zdig.qf,gzubgrfgzbdrxibgrfwiycgxicyi fibgrugfmi
wd..fmgdrxx.xg.cgfmigyzpiagIz mgd.xuruvgfmigdzuzvixg.cgfmrwgvzyyixn
wqtwfrfqfibgw.diguihgjr fqxi,gbrwfruvqrwmibgtngd.xigtxryyrzufg.x
mzxd.ur.qwg .y.xruv,gc.xgfmig.ybgqj.ugfmighzyywa

Fmighzwjwg zdigtngfm.qwzubwgf.gdngy.bvigrug. f.tix,gzwgf.ghrufix
lqzxfixw,gzubgwiffyibg.ugdnghrub.hwghrfmrugzubg.ugfmighzyywg.six-mizb,
w.difrdiwgbifixxruvgsrwrf.xwgcx.dgiufixruvagIz mgd.xuruv,ghmiugfmin
hixiguqdtibghrfmg .yb,gRgwhijfgw.dig.cgfmidg.qf,gtqfgRgbrbgu.fgfx.qtyi
dnwiycgdq mgf.gvifgxrbg.cgfmid;gRgisiugciyfg .djyrdiufibgtngfmirx
xivzxbruvgdngm.qwigzwgzgbiwrxztyigwmiyfixagFminguisixgd.yiwfibgdi
wixr.qwyn,gfm.qvmgfmingtibbibghrfmgdi;gzubgfmingvxzbqzyyngbrwzjjizxib,
ruf.ghmzfg xisr iwgRgb.gu.fgpu.h,gzs.rbruvghrufixgzubgquwjizpztyig .yba

Yrpigfmighzwjw,gtic.xigRgcruzyynghiufgruf.ghrufixglqzxfixwgrugU.sidtix,
Rgqwibgf.gxiw.xfgf.gfmigu.xfm-izwfgwrbig.cgHzybiu,ghmr mgfmigwqu,
xicyi fibgcx.dgfmigjrf m-jruigh..bwgzubgfmigwf.ungwm.xi,gdzbigfmi
crxi-wrbig.cgfmigj.ub;grfgrwgw.gdq mgjyizwzufixgzubghm.yiw.dixgf.gti
hzxdibgtngfmigwqughmryign.qg zugti,gfmzugtngzugzxfrcr rzygcrxiagRgfmqw
hzxdibgdnwiycgtngfmigwfryygvy.hruvgidtixwghmr mgfmigwqddix,gyrpigz
bijzxfibgmqufix,gmzbgyicfa



HmiugRg zdigf.gtqrybgdng mrduingRgwfqbribgdzw.uxnagDngtxr pwgtiruv
wi .ub-mzubg.uiwgxilqrxibgf.gtig yizuibghrfmgzgfx.hiy,gw.gfmzfgR
yizxuibgd.xigfmzugqwqzyg.cgfmiglqzyrfriwg.cgtxr pwgzubgfx.hiywagFmi
d.xfzxg.ugfmidghzwgcrcfngnizxwg.yb,gzubghzwgwzrbgf.gtigwfryygvx.hruv
mzxbix;gtqfgfmrwgrwg.uig.cgfm.wigwznruvwghmr mgdiugy.sigf.gxijizf
hmifmixgfmingzxigfxqig.xgu.fagWq mgwznruvwgfmidwiysiwgvx.hgmzxbixgzub
zbmixigd.xigcrxdynghrfmgzvi,gzubgrfgh.qybgfzpigdzungty.hwghrfmgzgfx.hiy
f.g yizugzug.ybghrwiz xig.cgfmidagDzung.cgfmigsryyzviwg.cgDiw.j.fzdrz
zxigtqryfg.cgwi .ub-mzubgtxr pwg.cgzgsixngv..bglqzyrfn,g.tfzruibgcx.d
fmigxqruwg.cgTztny.u,gzubgfmig idiufg.ugfmidgrwg.ybixgzubgjx.tztyn
mzxbixgwfryyagM.hisixgfmzfgdzngti,gRghzwgwfxq pgtngfmigji qyrzx
f.qvmuiwwg.cgfmigwfiiyghmr mgt.xigw.gdzungsr.yiufgty.hwghrfm.qfgtiruv
h.xug.qfagZwgdngtxr pwgmzbgtiiugrugzg mrduingtic.xi,gfm.qvmgRgbrbgu.f
xizbgfmiguzdig.cgUitq mzbuieezxg.ugfmid,gRgjr pibg.qfgzwgdzun
crxi-jyz igtxr pwgzwgRg .qybgcrub,gf.gwzsigh.xpgzubghzwfi,gzubgRgcryyib
fmigwjz iwgtifhiiugfmigtxr pwgzt.qfgfmigcrxi-jyz ighrfmgwf.uiwgcx.dgfmi
j.ubgwm.xi,gzubgzyw.gdzbigdngd.xfzxghrfmgfmighmrfigwzubgcx.dgfmigwzdi
jyz iagRgyruvixibgd.wfgzt.qfgfmigcrxijyz i,gzwgfmigd.wfgsrfzygjzxfg.c
fmigm.qwiagRubiib,gRgh.xpibgw.gbiyrtixzfiyn,gfmzfgfm.qvmgRg .ddiu ibgzf
fmigvx.qubgrugfmigd.xuruv,gzg .qxwig.cgtxr pwgxzrwibgzgcihgru miwgzt.si
fmigcy..xgwixsibgc.xgdngjryy.hgzfgurvmf;gnifgRgbrbgu.fgvifgzgwfrccgui p
c.xgrfgfmzfgRgxididtix;gdngwfrccgui pgrwg.cg.ybixgbzfiagRgf..pgzgj.if
f.gt.zxbgc.xgzgc.xfurvmfgzt.qfgfm.wigfrdiw,ghmr mg zqwibgdigf.gtigjqf
f.grfgc.xgx..dagMigtx.qvmfgmrwg.hugpurci,gfm.qvmgRgmzbgfh.,gzubghigqwib
f.gw .qxgfmidgtngfmxqwfruvgfmidgruf.gfmigizxfmagMigwmzxibghrfmgdigfmi
yzt.xwg.cg ..pruvagRghzwgjyizwibgf.gwiigdngh.xpgxrwruvgw.gwlqzxigzub
w.yrbgtngbivxiiw,gzubgxicyi fib,gfmzf,grcgrfgjx. iibibgwy.hyn,grfghzw
 zy qyzfibgf.giubqxigzgy.uvgfrdiagFmig mrduingrwgf.gw.digiofiufgzu
rubijiubiufgwfxq fqxi,gwfzubruvg.ugfmigvx.qubgzubgxrwruvgfmx.qvmgfmi
m.qwigf.gfmigmizsiuw;gisiugzcfixgfmigm.qwigrwgtqxuibgrfgwfryygwfzubw
w.difrdiw,gzubgrfwgrdj.xfzu igzubgrubijiubiu igzxigzjjzxiufagFmrwghzw
f.hzxbgfmigiubg.cgwqddixagRfghzwgu.hgU.sidtixa



Fmigu.xfmghrubgmzbgzyxizbngtivqugf.g ..ygfmigj.ub,gfm.qvmgrfgf..pgdzun
hiipwg.cgwfizbngty.hruvgf.gz  .djyrwmgrf,grfgrwgw.gbiijagHmiugRgtivzu
f.gmzsigzgcrxigzfgisiuruv,gtic.xigRgjyzwfixibgdngm.qwi,gfmig mrduin
 zxxribgwd.pigjzxfr qyzxynghiyy,gti zqwig.cgfmiguqdix.qwg mrupwgtifhiiu
fmigt.zxbwagNifgRgjzwwibgw.dig miixcqygisiuruvwgrugfmzfg ..ygzubgzrxn
zjzxfdiuf,gwqxx.qubibgtngfmigx.qvmgtx.hugt.zxbwgcqyyg.cgpu.fw,gzub
xzcfixwghrfmgfmigtzxpg.ugmrvmg.sixmizbagDngm.qwiguisixgjyizwibgdngini
w.gdq mgzcfixgrfghzwgjyzwfixib,gfm.qvmgRghzwg.tyrvibgf.g .uciwwgfmzfgrf
hzwgd.xig .dc.xfztyiagWm.qybgu.fgisixngzjzxfdiufgrughmr mgdzugbhiyywgti
y.cfngiu.qvmgf.g xizfigw.dig.tw qxrfng.six-mizb,ghmixigcyr pixruv
wmzb.hwgdzngjyzngzfgisiuruvgzt.qfgfmigxzcfixw?gFmiwigc.xdwgzxigd.xi
zvxiiztyigf.gfmigczu ngzubgrdzvruzfr.ugfmzugcxiw .gjzrufruvwg.xg.fmix
fmigd.wfgiojiuwrsigcqxurfqxiagRgu.hgcrxwfgtivzugf.grumztrfgdngm.qwi,gR
dzngwzn,ghmiugRgtivzugf.gqwigrfgc.xghzxdfmgzwghiyygzwgwmiyfixagRgmzb
v.fgzg .qjyig.cg.ybgcrxi-b.vwgf.gpiijgfmigh..bgcx.dgfmigmizxfm,gzubgrf
brbgdigv..bgf.gwiigfmigw..fgc.xdg.ugfmigtz pg.cgfmig mrduinghmr mgRgmzb
tqryf,gzubgRgj.pibgfmigcrxighrfmgd.xigxrvmfgzubgd.xigwzfrwcz fr.ugfmzu
qwqzyagDngbhiyyruvghzwgwdzyy,gzubgRg .qybgmzxbyngiufixfzrugzugi m.gru
rf;gtqfgrfgwiidibgyzxvixgc.xgtiruvgzgwruvyigzjzxfdiufgzubgxid.figcx.d
uirvmt.xwagZyygfmigzffxz fr.uwg.cgzgm.qwighixig .u iufxzfibgrug.ui
x..d;grfghzwgprf miu,g mzdtix,gjzxy.x,gzubgpiijruv-x..d;gzubghmzfisix
wzfrwcz fr.ugjzxiufg.xg mryb,gdzwfixg.xgwixszuf,gbixrsigcx.dgyrsruvgru
zgm.qwi,gRgiuk.nibgrfgzyyag zf.gwznw,gfmigdzwfixg.cgzgczdryn
(_jzfxidczdryrzw_)gdqwfgmzsigrugmrwgxqwfr gsryyzg“ iyyzdg.yizxrzd,
sruzxrzd,gb.yrzgdqyfz,gqfrgyqtizfg zxrfzfidgioji fzxi,gifgxir,gif
srxfqfr,gifgvy.xrægixrf,”gfmzfgrw,g“zug.rygzubghruig iyyzx,gdzung zwpw,
w.gfmzfgrfgdzngtigjyizwzufgf.gioji fgmzxbgfrdiw;grfghryygtigc.xgmrw
zbszufzvi,gzubgsrxfqi,gzubgvy.xna”gRgmzbgrugdng iyyzxgzgcrxprug.c
j.fzf.iw,gzt.qfgfh.glqzxfwg.cgjizwghrfmgfmighiisrygrugfmid,gzubg.ugdn
wmiycgzgyrffyigxr i,gzgkqvg.cgd.yzwwiw,gzubg.cgxnigzubgRubrzugdizygz
ji pgiz ma

Rgw.difrdiwgbxizdg.cgzgyzxvixgzubgd.xigj.jqy.qwgm.qwi,gwfzubruvgrugz
v.ybiugzvi,g.cgiubqxruvgdzfixrzyw,gzubghrfm.qfgvruvix-txizbgh.xp,ghmr m
wmzyygwfryyg .uwrwfg.cg.uyng.uigx..d,gzgszwf,gxqbi,gwqtwfzufrzy,
jxrdrfrsigmzyy,ghrfm.qfg iryruvg.xgjyzwfixruv,ghrfmgtzxigxzcfixwgzub
jqxyruwgwqjj.xfruvgzgw.xfg.cgy.hixgmizsiug.sixg.ui’wgmizb,—qwicqygf.
piijg.ccgxzrugzubgwu.h;ghmixigfmigpruvgzubglqiiugj.wfwgwfzubg.qfgf.
xi irsign.qxgm.dzvi,ghmiugn.qgmzsigb.uigxisixiu igf.gfmigjx.wfxzfi
Wzfqxug.cgzug.ybixgbnuzwfng.ugwfijjruvg.sixgfmigwryy;gzg zsixu.qw
m.qwi,ghmixirugn.qgdqwfgxiz mgqjgzgf.x mgqj.ugzgj.yigf.gwiigfmigx..c;
hmixigw.digdzngyrsigrugfmigcrxi-jyz i,gw.digrugfmigxi iwwg.cgzghrub.h,
zubgw.dig.ugwiffyiw,gw.digzfg.uigiubg.cgfmigmzyy,gw.digzfgzu.fmix,gzub
w.digzy.cfg.ugxzcfixwghrfmgfmigwjrbixw,grcgfming m..wi;gzgm.qwighmr m
n.qgmzsigv.fgruf.ghmiugn.qgmzsig.jiuibgfmig.qfwrbigb..x,gzubgfmi
 ixid.ungrwg.six;ghmixigfmighizxngfxzsiyyixgdznghzwm,gzubgizf,gzub
 .usixwi,gzubgwyiij,ghrfm.qfgcqxfmixgk.qxuin;gwq mgzgwmiyfixgzwgn.q
h.qybgtigvyzbgf.gxiz mgrugzgfidjiwfq.qwgurvmf,g .ufzruruvgzyygfmi
iwwiufrzywg.cgzgm.qwi,gzubgu.fmruvgc.xgm.qwi-piijruv;ghmixign.qg zugwii
zyygfmigfxizwqxiwg.cgfmigm.qwigzfg.uigsrih,gzubgisixngfmruvgmzuvwgqj.u
rfwgjiv,gfmzfgzgdzugwm.qybgqwi;gzfg.u igprf miu,gjzufxn,gjzxy.x,
 mzdtix,gwf.xi-m.qwi,gzubgvzxxif;ghmixign.qg zugwiigw.gui iwwzxngz
fmruvgzwgzgtzxxiyg.xgzgyzbbix,gw.g .usiuriufgzgfmruvgzwgzg qjt.zxb,gzub
mizxgfmigj.fgt.ry,gzubgjzngn.qxgxiwji fwgf.gfmigcrxigfmzfg ..pwgn.qx
bruuixgzubgfmig.siugfmzfgtzpiwgn.qxgtxizb,gzubgfmigui iwwzxngcqxurfqxi
zubgqfiuwrywgzxigfmig mricg.xuzdiufw;ghmixigfmighzwmruvgrwgu.fgjqfg.qf,
u.xgfmigcrxi,gu.xgfmigdrwfxiww,gzubgjixmzjwgn.qgzxigw.difrdiwgxilqiwfib
f.gd.sigcx.dg.ccgfmigfxzj-b..x,ghmiugfmig ..pgh.qybgbiw iubgruf.gfmi
 iyyzx,gzubgw.gyizxughmifmixgfmigvx.qubgrwgw.yrbg.xgm.yy.hgtiuizfmgn.q
hrfm.qfgwfzdjruvagZgm.qwighm.wigruwrbigrwgzwg.jiugzubgdzurciwfgzwgz
trxb’wguiwf,gzubgn.qg zuu.fgv.grugzfgfmigcx.ufgb..xgzubg.qfgzfgfmigtz p
hrfm.qfgwiiruvgw.dig.cgrfwgrumztrfzufw;ghmixigf.gtigzgvqiwfgrwgf.gti
jxiwiufibghrfmgfmigcxiib.dg.cgfmigm.qwi,gzubgu.fgf.gtig zxicqyyn
io yqbibgcx.dgwisiugirvmfmwg.cgrf,gwmqfgqjgrugzgjzxfr qyzxg iyy,gzub
f.ybgf.gdzpign.qxwiycgzfgm.digfmixi,—rugw.yrfzxng .ucruidiufagU.hzbznw
fmigm.wfgb.iwgu.fgzbdrfgn.qgf.g_mrw_gmizxfm,gtqfgmzwgv.fgfmigdzw.ugf.
tqrybg.uigc.xgn.qxwiycgw.dihmixigrugmrwgzyyin,gzubgm.wjrfzyrfngrwgfmi
zxfg.cg_piijruv_gn.qgzfgfmigvxizfiwfgbrwfzu iagFmixigrwgzwgdq mgwi xi n
zt.qfgfmig ..pruvgzwgrcgmigmzbgzgbiwrvugf.gj.rw.ugn.qagRgzdgzhzxigfmzf
Rgmzsigtiiug.ugdzungzgdzu’wgjxidrwiw,gzubgdrvmfgmzsigtiiugyivzyyn
.xbixibg.cc,gtqfgRgzdgu.fgzhzxigfmzfgRgmzsigtiiugrugdzungdiu’wgm.qwiwa
Rgdrvmfgsrwrfgrugdng.ybg y.fmiwgzgpruvgzubglqiiughm.gyrsibgwrdjyngru
wq mgzgm.qwigzwgRgmzsigbiw xrtib,grcgRghixigv.ruvgfmirxghzn;gtqf
tz pruvg.qfg.cgzgd.bixugjzyz ighryygtigzyygfmzfgRgwmzyygbiwrxigf.
yizxu,grcgisixgRgzdg zqvmfgrug.uia

Rfgh.qybgwiidgzwgrcgfmigsixngyzuvqzvig.cg.qxgjzxy.xwgh.qybgy.wigzyygrfw
uixsigzubgbiviuixzfigruf.g_jzyzsix_ghm.yyn,g.qxgyrsiwgjzwwgzfgwq m
xid.fiuiwwgcx.dgrfwgwndt.yw,gzubgrfwgdifzjm.xwgzubgfx.jiwgzxi
ui iwwzxryngw.gczxgcif mib,gfmx.qvmgwyrbiwgzubgbqdt-hzrfixw,gzwgrf
hixi;grug.fmixgh.xbw,gfmigjzxy.xgrwgw.gczxgcx.dgfmigprf miugzub
h.xpwm.jagFmigbruuixgisiugrwg.uyngfmigjzxztyig.cgzgbruuix,g .dd.uynagZw
rcg.uyngfmigwzszvigbhiyfguizxgiu.qvmgf.gUzfqxigzubgFxqfmgf.gt.xx.hgz
fx.jigcx.dgfmidagM.hg zugfmigw m.yzx,ghm.gbhiyywgzhzngrugfmigU.xfmgHiwf
Fixxrf.xng.xgfmigRwyig.cgDzu,gfiyyghmzfgrwgjzxyrzdiufzxngrugfmi
prf miu?

M.hisix,g.uyng.uig.xgfh.g.cgdngvqiwfwghixigisixgt.ybgiu.qvmgf.gwfzngzub
izfgzgmzwfn-jqbbruvghrfmgdi;gtqfghmiugfmingwzhgfmzfg xrwrwgzjjx.z mruv
fmingtizfgzgmzwfngxifxizfgxzfmix,gzwgrcgrfgh.qybgwmzpigfmigm.qwigf.grfw
c.qubzfr.uwagUisixfmiyiww,grfgwf..bgfmx.qvmgzgvxizfgdzun
mzwfn-jqbbruvwa

Rgbrbgu.fgjyzwfixgfryygrfghzwgcxiieruvghizfmixagRgtx.qvmfg.sixgw.di
hmrfixgzubg yizuixgwzubgc.xgfmrwgjqxj.wigcx.dgfmig.jj.wrfigwm.xig.cgfmi
j.ubgrugzgt.zf,gzgw.xfg.cg .usinzu ighmr mgh.qybgmzsigfidjfibgdigf.gv.
dq mgczxfmixgrcgui iwwzxnagDngm.qwigmzbgrugfmigdizughmryigtiiugwmruvyib
b.hugf.gfmigvx.qubg.ugisixngwrbiagRugyzfmruvgRghzwgjyizwibgf.gtigztyi
f.gwiubgm.digiz mguzryghrfmgzgwruvyigty.hg.cgfmigmzddix,gzubgrfghzwgdn
zdtrfr.ugf.gfxzuwcixgfmigjyzwfixgcx.dgfmigt.zxbgf.gfmighzyyguizfyngzub
xzjrbynagRgxididtixibgfmigwf.xng.cgzg .u irfibgciyy.h,ghm.,grugcrui
 y.fmiw,ghzwgh.ufgf.gy.quvigzt.qfgfmigsryyzvig.u i,gvrsruvgzbsr igf.
h.xpdiuagSiufqxruvg.uigbzngf.gwqtwfrfqfigbiibwgc.xgh.xbw,gmigfqxuibgqj
mrwg qccw,gwireibgzgjyzwfixix’wgt.zxb,gzubgmzsruvgy.zbibgmrwgfx.hiy
hrfm.qfgdrwmzj,ghrfmgzg .djyz iufgy..pgf.hzxbgfmigyzfmruvg.sixmizb,
dzbigzgt.ybgviwfqxigfmrfmixhzxb;gzubgwfxzrvmfhzn,gf.gmrwg .djyifi
brw .dcrfqxi,gxi irsibgfmighm.yig .ufiufwgrugmrwgxqccyibgt.w.dagR
zbdrxibgzuihgfmigi .u.dngzubg .usiuriu ig.cgjyzwfixruv,ghmr mgw.
icci fqzyyngwmqfwg.qfgfmig .ybgzubgfzpiwgzgmzubw.digcrurwm,gzubgR
yizxuibgfmigszxr.qwg zwqzyfriwgf.ghmr mgfmigjyzwfixixgrwgyrztyiagRghzw
wqxjxrwibgf.gwiigm.hgfmrxwfngfmigtxr pwghixighmr mgbxzupgqjgzyygfmi
d.rwfqxigrugdngjyzwfixgtic.xigRgmzbgwd..fmibgrf,gzubgm.hgdzungjzrycqyw
.cghzfixgrfgfzpiwgf.g mxrwfiugzguihgmizxfmagRgmzbgfmigjxisr.qwghrufix
dzbigzgwdzyyglqzufrfng.cgyrdigtngtqxuruvgfmigwmiyywg.cgfmig_Qur.
cyqsrzfryrw_,ghmr mg.qxgxrsixgzcc.xbw,gc.xgfmigwzpig.cgfmigiojixrdiuf;
w.gfmzfgRgpuihghmixigdngdzfixrzywg zdigcx.dagRgdrvmfgmzsigv.fgv..b
yrdiwf.uighrfmrugzgdryig.xgfh.gzubgtqxuibgrfgdnwiyc,grcgRgmzbg zxibgf.
b.gw.a



Fmigj.ubgmzbgrugfmigdizughmryigwprddibg.sixgrugfmigwmzbriwfgzub
wmzyy.hiwfg .siw,gw.digbznwg.xgisiughiipwgtic.xigfmigviuixzygcxiieruva
Fmigcrxwfgr igrwgiwji rzyyngrufixiwfruvgzubgjixci f,gtiruvgmzxb,gbzxp,
zubgfxzuwjzxiuf,gzubgzcc.xbwgfmigtiwfg.jj.xfqurfngfmzfgisixg.ccixwgc.x
iozdruruvgfmigt.ff.dghmixigrfgrwgwmzyy.h;gc.xgn.qg zugyrigzfgn.qx
yiuvfmg.ugr ig.uyngzugru mgfmr p,gyrpigzgwpzfixgruwi fg.ugfmigwqxcz i
.cgfmighzfix,gzubgwfqbngfmigt.ff.dgzfgn.qxgyirwqxi,g.uyngfh.g.xgfmxii
ru miwgbrwfzuf,gyrpigzgjr fqxigtimrubgzgvyzww,gzubgfmighzfixgrw
ui iwwzxryngzyhznwgwd..fmgfmiuagFmixigzxigdzungcqxx.hwgrugfmigwzub
hmixigw.dig xizfqxigmzwgfxzsiyyibgzt.qfgzubgb.qtyibg.ugrfwgfxz pw;gzub,
c.xghxi pw,grfgrwgwfxihughrfmgfmig zwiwg.cg zbrwgh.xdwgdzbig.cgdruqfi
vxzruwg.cghmrfiglqzxfeagJixmzjwgfmiwigmzsig xizwibgrf,gc.xgn.qgcrub
w.dig.cgfmirxg zwiwgrugfmigcqxx.hw,gfm.qvmgfmingzxigbiijgzubgtx.zbgc.x
fmidgf.gdzpiagTqfgfmigr igrfwiycgrwgfmig.tki fg.cgd.wfgrufixiwf,gfm.qvm
n.qgdqwfgrdjx.sigfmigizxyriwfg.jj.xfqurfngf.gwfqbngrfagRcgn.qgiozdrui
rfg y.wiyngfmigd.xuruvgzcfixgrfgcxiieiw,gn.qgcrubgfmzfgfmigvxizfixgjzxf
.cgfmigtqttyiw,ghmr mgzfgcrxwfgzjjizxibgf.gtighrfmrugrf,gzxigzvzruwf
rfwgqubixgwqxcz i,gzubgfmzfgd.xigzxig .ufruqzyyngxrwruvgcx.dgfmi
t.ff.d;ghmryigfmigr igrwgzwgnifg .djzxzfrsiyngw.yrbgzubgbzxp,gfmzfgrw,
n.qgwiigfmighzfixgfmx.qvmgrfagFmiwigtqttyiwgzxigcx.dgzugirvmfrifmgf.gzu
irvmfmg.cgzugru mgrugbrzdifix,gsixng yizxgzubgtizqfrcqy,gzubgn.qgwii
n.qxgcz igxicyi fibgrugfmidgfmx.qvmgfmigr iagFmixigdzngtigfmrxfng.x
c.xfng.cgfmidgf.gzgwlqzxigru magFmixigzxigzyw.gzyxizbnghrfmrugfmigr i
uzxx.hg.ty.uvgjixjiubr qyzxgtqttyiwgzt.qfgmzycgzugru mgy.uv,gwmzxj
 .uiwghrfmgfmigzjiogqjhzxb;g.xg.cfiuix,grcgfmigr igrwglqrfigcxiwm,
druqfigwjmixr zygtqttyiwg.uigbrxi fyngzt.sigzu.fmix,gyrpigzgwfxruvg.c
tizbwagTqfgfmiwighrfmrugfmigr igzxigu.fgw.guqdix.qwgu.xg.tsr.qwgzw
fm.wigtiuizfmagRgw.difrdiwgqwibgf.g zwfg.ugwf.uiwgf.gfxngfmigwfxiuvfm
.cgfmigr i,gzubgfm.wighmr mgtx.pigfmx.qvmg zxxribgrugzrxghrfmgfmid,
hmr mgc.xdibgsixngyzxvigzubg .uwjr q.qwghmrfigtqttyiwgtiuizfmag.uigbzn
hmiugRg zdigf.gfmigwzdigjyz igc.xfn-irvmfgm.qxwgzcfixhzxb,gRgc.qubgfmzf
fm.wigyzxvigtqttyiwghixigwfryygjixci f,gfm.qvmgzugru mgd.xig.cgr igmzb
c.xdib,gzwgRg .qybgwiigbrwfru fyngtngfmigwizdgrugfmigibvig.cgzg zpia
Tqfgzwgfmigyzwfgfh.gbznwgmzbgtiiugsixnghzxd,gyrpigzugRubrzugwqddix,gfmi
r ighzwgu.fgu.hgfxzuwjzxiuf,gwm.hruvgfmigbzxpgvxiiug .y.xg.cgfmighzfix,
zubgfmigt.ff.d,gtqfg.jzlqigzubghmrfrwmg.xgvxzn,gzubgfm.qvmgfhr igzw
fmr pghzwgmzxbyngwfx.uvixgfmzugtic.xi,gc.xgfmigzrxgtqttyiwgmzbgvxizfyn
iojzubibgqubixgfmrwgmizfgzubgxqugf.vifmix,gzubgy.wfgfmirxgxivqyzxrfn;
fminghixigu.gy.uvixg.uigbrxi fyng.sixgzu.fmix,gtqfg.cfiugyrpigwrysixn
 .ruwgj.qxibgcx.dgzgtzv,g.uig.sixyzjjruvgzu.fmix,g.xgrugfmrugcyzpiw,gzw
rcg.  qjnruvgwyrvmfg yizszviwagFmigtizqfng.cgfmigr ighzwgv.ui,gzubgrf
hzwgf..gyzfigf.gwfqbngfmigt.ff.dagTiruvg qxr.qwgf.gpu.hghmzfgj.wrfr.u
dngvxizfgtqttyiwg.  qjribghrfmgxivzxbgf.gfmiguihgr i,gRgtx.pig.qfgz
 zpig .ufzruruvgzgdrbbyruvgwreibg.ui,gzubgfqxuibgrfgt.ff.dgqjhzxbagFmi
uihgr igmzbgc.xdibgzx.qubgzubgqubixgfmigtqttyi,gw.gfmzfgrfghzwgru yqbib
tifhiiugfmigfh.gr iwagRfghzwghm.yyngrugfmigy.hixgr i,gtqfg y.wigzvzruwf
fmigqjjix,gzubghzwgcyzffrwm,g.xgjixmzjwgwyrvmfyngyiufr qyzx,ghrfmgz
x.qubibgibvi,gzglqzxfixg.cgzugru mgbiijgtngc.qxgru miwgrugbrzdifix;gzub
Rghzwgwqxjxrwibgf.gcrubgfmzfgbrxi fyngqubixgfmigtqttyigfmigr ighzw
diyfibghrfmgvxizfgxivqyzxrfngrugfmigc.xdg.cgzgwzq ixgxisixwib,gf.gfmi
mirvmfg.cgcrsigirvmfmwg.cgzugru mgrugfmigdrbbyi,gyizsruvgzgfmru
jzxfrfr.ugfmixigtifhiiugfmighzfixgzubgfmigtqttyi,gmzxbyngzugirvmfmg.c
zugru mgfmr p;gzubgrugdzungjyz iwgfmigwdzyygtqttyiwgrugfmrwgjzxfrfr.u
mzbgtqxwfg.qfgb.huhzxb,gzubgjx.tztyngfmixighzwgu.gr igzfgzyygqubixgfmi
yzxviwfgtqttyiw,ghmr mghixigzgc..fgrugbrzdifixagRgrucixxibgfmzfgfmi
rucrurfiguqdtixg.cgdruqfigtqttyiwghmr mgRgmzbgcrxwfgwiiugzvzruwfgfmi
qubixgwqxcz ig.cgfmigr ighixigu.hgcx.eiugrugyrpihrwi,gzubgfmzfgiz m,gru
rfwgbivxii,gmzbg.jixzfibgyrpigzgtqxuruvgvyzwwg.ugfmigr igtiuizfmgf.
diyfgzubgx.fgrfagFmiwigzxigfmigyrffyigzrx-vquwghmr mg .ufxrtqfigf.gdzpi
fmigr ig xz pgzubghm..ja



Zfgyiuvfmgfmighrufixgwifgrugrugv..bgizxuiwf,gkqwfgzwgRgmzbgcrurwmib
jyzwfixruv,gzubgfmighrubgtivzugf.gm.hygzx.qubgfmigm.qwigzwgrcgrfgmzb
u.fgmzbgjixdrwwr.ugf.gb.gw.gfryygfmiuagUrvmfgzcfixgurvmfgfmigviiwig zdi
yqdtixruvgrugrugfmigbzxpghrfmgzg yzuv.xgzubgzghmrwfyruvg.cghruvw,gisiu
zcfixgfmigvx.qubghzwg .sixibghrfmgwu.h,gw.digf.gzyrvmfgrugHzybiu,gzub
w.digcynruvgy.hg.sixgfmigh..bwgf.hzxbgCzrxgMzsiu,gt.qubgc.xgDior .a
Wisixzygfrdiw,ghmiugxifqxuruvgcx.dgfmigsryyzvigzfgfiug.xgiyisiug.’ y. p
zfgurvmf,gRgmizxbgfmigfxizbg.cgzgcy. pg.cgviiwi,g.xgiywigbq pw,g.ugfmi
bxngyizsiwgrugfmigh..bwgtngzgj.ub-m.yigtimrubgdngbhiyyruv,ghmixigfmin
mzbg .digqjgf.gciib,gzubgfmigczrufgm.upg.xglqz pg.cgfmirxgyizbixgzw
fmingmqxxribg.ccagRug1845gHzybiugcx.eigiufrxiyng.sixgc.xgfmigcrxwfgfrdi
.ugfmigurvmfg.cgfmig22bg.cgBi idtix,gCyruf’wgzubg.fmixgwmzyy.hixgj.ubw
zubgfmigxrsixgmzsruvgtiiugcx.eiugfiugbznwg.xgd.xi;grug’46,gfmig16fm;gru
’49,gzt.qfgfmig31wf;gzubgrug’50,gzt.qfgfmig27fmg.cgBi idtix;grug’52,
fmig5fmg.cgKzuqzxn;grug’53,gfmig31wfg.cgBi idtixagFmigwu.hgmzbgzyxizbn
 .sixibgfmigvx.qubgwru igfmig25fmg.cgU.sidtix,gzubgwqxx.qubibgdi
wqbbiuynghrfmgfmigw iuixng.cghrufixagRghrfmbxihgnifgczxfmixgruf.gdn
wmiyy,gzubgiubizs.xibgf.gpiijgzgtxrvmfgcrxigt.fmghrfmrugdngm.qwigzub
hrfmrugdngtxizwfagDngidjy.ndiufg.qfg.cgb..xwgu.hghzwgf.g .yyi fgfmi
bizbgh..bgrugfmigc.xiwf,gtxruvruvgrfgrugdngmzubwg.xg.ugdngwm.qybixw,g.x
w.difrdiwgfxzryruvgzgbizbgjruigfxiigqubixgiz mgzxdgf.gdngwmibagZug.yb
c.xiwfgciu ighmr mgmzbgwiiugrfwgtiwfgbznwghzwgzgvxizfgmzqygc.xgdiagR
wz xrcr ibgrfgf.gSqy zu,gc.xgrfghzwgjzwfgwixsruvgfmigv.bgFixdruqwagM.h
dq mgd.xigrufixiwfruvgzugisiufgrwgfmzfgdzu’wgwqjjixghm.gmzwgkqwfgtiiu
c.xfmgrugfmigwu.hgf.gmquf,guzn,gn.qgdrvmfgwzn,gwfizy,gfmigcqiygf.g ..p
rfghrfm!gMrwgtxizbgzubgdizfgzxigwhiifagFmixigzxigiu.qvmgczv.fwgzub
hzwfigh..bg.cgzyygprubwgrugfmigc.xiwfwg.cgd.wfg.cg.qxgf.huwgf.gwqjj.xf
dzungcrxiw,gtqfghmr mgzfgjxiwiufghzxdgu.ui,gzub,gw.digfmrup,gmrubixgfmi
vx.hfmg.cgfmign.quvgh..bagFmixighzwgzyw.gfmigbxrcf-h..bg.cgfmigj.ubagRu
fmig .qxwig.cgfmigwqddixgRgmzbgbrw .sixibgzgxzcfg.cgjrf m-jruigy.vw
hrfmgfmigtzxpg.u,gjruuibgf.vifmixgtngfmigRxrwmghmiugfmigxzryx.zbghzw
tqryfagFmrwgRgmzqyibgqjgjzxfyng.ugfmigwm.xiagZcfixgw.zpruvgfh.gnizxw
zubgfmiugynruvgmrvmgwrogd.ufmwgrfghzwgjixci fyngw.qub,gfm.qvm
hzfixy.vvibgjzwfgbxnruvagRgzdqwibgdnwiycg.uighrufixgbznghrfmgwyrbruv
fmrwgjri idizygz x.wwgfmigj.ub,guizxyngmzycgzgdryi,gwpzfruvgtimrubghrfm
.uigiubg.cgzgy.vgcrcfiiugciifgy.uvg.ugdngwm.qybix,gzubgfmig.fmixg.ugfmi
r i;g.xgRgfribgwisixzygy.vwgf.vifmixghrfmgzgtrx mghrfmi,gzubgfmiu,ghrfm
zgy.uvixgtrx mg.xgzybixghmr mgmzbgzgm..pgzfgfmigiub,gbxzvvibgfmid
z x.wwagFm.qvmg .djyifiynghzfixy.vvibgzubgzyd.wfgzwgmizsngzwgyizb,gfmin
u.fg.uyngtqxuibgy.uv,gtqfgdzbigzgsixngm.fgcrxi;guzn,gRgfm.qvmfgfmzf
fmingtqxuibgtiffixgc.xgfmigw.zpruv,gzwgrcgfmigjrf m,gtiruvg .ucruibgtn
fmighzfix,gtqxuibgy.uvix,gzwgrugzgyzdja

Vryjru,grugmrwgz  .qufg.cgfmigc.xiwfgt.xbixixwg.cgIuvyzub,gwznwgfmzf
“fmigiu x.z mdiufwg.cgfxiwjzwwixw,gzubgfmigm.qwiwgzubgciu iwgfmqw
xzrwibg.ugfmigt.xbixwg.cgfmigc.xiwf,”ghixig“ .uwrbixibgzwgvxizf
uqrwzu iwgtngfmig.ybgc.xiwfgyzh,gzubghixigwisixiyngjqurwmibgqubixgfmi
uzdig.cg_jqxjxiwfqxiw_,gzwgfiubruvg_zbgfixx.xidgcixzxqd—zbgu. qdiufqd
c.xiwfæ_,g& a,”gf.gfmigcxrvmfiuruvg.cgfmigvzdigzubgfmigbifxrdiufg.cgfmi
c.xiwfagTqfgRghzwgrufixiwfibgrugfmigjxiwixszfr.ug.cgfmigsiurw.ugzubgfmi
sixfgd.xigfmzugfmigmqufixwg.xgh..b m.jjixw,gzubgzwgdq mgzwgfm.qvmgRgmzb
tiiugfmigY.xbgHzxbiugmrdwiyc;gzubgrcgzungjzxfghzwgtqxuib,gfm.qvmgR
tqxuibgrfgdnwiycgtngz  rbiuf,gRgvxrisibghrfmgzgvxricgfmzfgyzwfibgy.uvix
zubghzwgd.xigru .uw.yztyigfmzugfmzfg.cgfmigjx.jxrif.xw;guzn,gRgvxrisib
hmiugrfghzwg qfgb.hugtngfmigjx.jxrif.xwgfmidwiysiwagRgh.qybgfmzfg.qx
czxdixwghmiugfming qfgb.hugzgc.xiwfgciyfgw.dig.cgfmzfgzhighmr mgfmig.yb
X.dzuwgbrbghmiugfming zdigf.gfmru,g.xgyifgrugfmigyrvmfgf.,gz
 .uwi xzfibgvx.sig(_yq qdg .uyq zxi_),gfmzfgrw,gh.qybgtiyrisigfmzfgrf
rwgwz xibgf.gw.digv.bagFmigX.dzugdzbigzugiojrzf.xng.ccixruv,gzub
jxznib,gHmzfisixgv.bg.xgv.bbiwwgfm.qgzxfgf.ghm.dgfmrwgvx.sigrwgwz xib,
tigjx.jrfr.qwgf.gdi,gdngczdryn,gzubg mrybxiu,g& a

Rfgrwgxidzxpztyighmzfgzgszyqigrwgwfryygjqfgqj.ugh..bgisiugrugfmrwgzvi
zubgrugfmrwguihg .qufxn,gzgszyqigd.xigjixdzuiufgzubgqursixwzygfmzugfmzf
.cgv.ybagZcfixgzyyg.qxgbrw .sixriwgzubgrusiufr.uwgu.gdzughryygv.gtngz
jryig.cgh..bagRfgrwgzwgjxi r.qwgf.gqwgzwgrfghzwgf.g.qxgWzo.ugzubgU.xdzu
zu iwf.xwagRcgfmingdzbigfmirxgt.hwg.cgrf,ghigdzpig.qxgvqu-wf. pwg.cgrfa
Dr mzqo,gd.xigfmzugfmrxfngnizxwgzv.,gwznwgfmzfgfmigjxr ig.cgh..bgc.x
cqiygrugUihgN.xpgzubgJmryzbiyjmrzg“uizxyngilqzyw,gzubgw.difrdiw
io iibw,gfmzfg.cgfmigtiwfgh..bgrugJzxrw,gfm.qvmgfmrwgrddiuwig zjrfzy
zuuqzyyngxilqrxiwgd.xigfmzugfmxiigmqubxibgfm.qwzubg .xbw,gzubgrw
wqxx.qubibgf.gfmigbrwfzu ig.cgfmxiigmqubxibgdryiwgtng qyfrszfib
jyzruwa”gRugfmrwgf.hugfmigjxr ig.cgh..bgxrwiwgzyd.wfgwfizbryn,gzubgfmi
.uynglqiwfr.ugrw,gm.hgdq mgmrvmixgrfgrwgf.gtigfmrwgnizxgfmzugrfghzwgfmi
yzwfagDi mzur wgzubgfxzbiwdiughm.g .digrugjixw.ugf.gfmigc.xiwfg.ugu.
.fmixgixxzub,gzxigwqxigf.gzffiubgfmigh..bgzq fr.u,gzubgisiugjzngzgmrvm
jxr igc.xgfmigjxrsryivig.cgvyizuruvgzcfixgfmigh..b m.jjixagRfgrwgu.h
dzungnizxwgfmzfgdiugmzsigxiw.xfibgf.gfmigc.xiwfgc.xgcqiygzubgfmi
dzfixrzywg.cgfmigzxfw;gfmigUihgIuvyzubixgzubgfmigUihgM.yyzubix,gfmi
Jzxrwrzugzubgfmig iyf,gfmigczxdixgzubgX.trum..b,gV..bngTyzpigzubgMzxxn
Vryy,grugd.wfgjzxfwg.cgfmigh.xybgfmigjxru igzubgfmigjizwzuf,gfmi
w m.yzxgzubgfmigwzszvi,gilqzyyngxilqrxigwfryygzgcihgwfr pwgcx.dgfmi
c.xiwfgf.ghzxdgfmidgzubg ..pgfmirxgc..bagUirfmixg .qybgRgb.ghrfm.qf
fmida

Isixngdzugy..pwgzfgmrwgh..b-jryighrfmgzgprubg.cgzcci fr.uagRgy.sigf.
mzsigdruigtic.xigdnghrub.h,gzubgfmigd.xig mrjwgfmigtiffixgf.gxidrubgdi
.cgdngjyizwruvgh.xpagRgmzbgzug.ybgzoighmr mgu.t.bng yzrdib,ghrfmghmr m
tngwjiyywgrughrufixgbznw,g.ugfmigwquungwrbig.cgfmigm.qwi,gRgjyznib
zt.qfgfmigwfqdjwghmr mgRgmzbgv.fg.qfg.cgdngtizu-criybagZwgdngbxrsix
jx.jmiwribghmiugRghzwgjy.qvmruv,gfminghzxdibgdigfhr i,g.u ighmryigRghzw
wjyrffruvgfmid,gzubgzvzrughmiugfminghixig.ugfmigcrxi,gw.gfmzfgu.gcqiy
 .qybgvrsig.qfgd.xigmizfagZwgc.xgfmigzoi,gRghzwgzbsrwibgf.gvifgfmi
sryyzvigtyz pwdrfmgf.g“kqdj”grf;gtqfgRgkqdjibgmrd,gzub,gjqffruvgz
mr p.xngmiysigcx.dgfmigh..bwgruf.grf,gdzbigrfgb.agRcgrfghzwgbqyy,grf
hzwgzfgyizwfgmquvgfxqia

Zgcihgjri iwg.cgczfgjruighixigzgvxizfgfxizwqxiagRfgrwgrufixiwfruvgf.
xididtixgm.hgdq mg.cgfmrwgc..bgc.xgcrxigrwgwfryyg .u izyibgrugfmi
t.hiywg.cgfmigizxfmagRugjxisr.qwgnizxwgRgmzbg.cfiugv.uig“jx.wji fruv”
.sixgw.digtzxigmryy-wrbi,ghmixigzgjrf m-jruigh..bgmzbgc.xdixyngwf..b,
zubgv.fg.qfgfmigczfgjruigx..fwagFmingzxigzyd.wfgrubiwfxq frtyiagWfqdjw
fmrxfng.xgc.xfngnizxwg.yb,gzfgyizwf,ghryygwfryygtigw.qubgzfgfmig .xi,
fm.qvmgfmigwzjh..bgmzwgzyygti .digsivifztyigd.qyb,gzwgzjjizxwgtngfmi
w zyiwg.cgfmigfmr pgtzxpgc.xdruvgzgxruvgyisiyghrfmgfmigizxfmgc.qxg.x
crsigru miwgbrwfzufgcx.dgfmigmizxfagHrfmgzoigzubgwm.siygn.qgiojy.xi
fmrwgdrui,gzubgc.yy.hgfmigdzxx.hngwf.xi,gniyy.hgzwgtiicgfzyy.h,g.xgzw
rcgn.qgmzbgwfxq pg.ugzgsirug.cgv.yb,gbiijgruf.gfmigizxfmagTqfg .dd.uyn
Rgprubyibgdngcrxighrfmgfmigbxngyizsiwg.cgfmigc.xiwf,ghmr mgRgmzbgwf.xib
qjgrugdngwmibgtic.xigfmigwu.hg zdiagVxiiugmr p.xngcruiyngwjyrfgdzpiw
fmigh..b m.jjix’wgprubyruvw,ghmiugmigmzwgzg zdjgrugfmigh..bwag.u igrugz
hmryigRgv.fgzgyrffyig.cgfmrwagHmiugfmigsryyzvixwghixigyrvmfruvgfmirx
crxiwgtin.ubgfmigm.xre.u,gRgf..gvzsigu.fr igf.gfmigszxr.qwghryb
rumztrfzufwg.cgHzybiugszyi,gtngzgwd.pngwfxizdixgcx.dgdng mrduin,gfmzfgR
hzwgzhzpia—

gggggYrvmf-hruvibgWd.pi,gR zxrzugtrxb,
gggggDiyfruvgfmngjrur.uwgrugfmngqjhzxbgcyrvmf,
gggggYzxpghrfm.qfgw.uv,gzubgdiwwiuvixg.cgbzhu,
ggggg rx yruvgzt.sigfmigmzdyifwgzwgfmnguiwf;
ggggg.xgiywi,gbijzxfruvgbxizd,gzubgwmzb.hngc.xd
ggggg.cgdrburvmfgsrwr.u,gvzfmixruvgqjgfmngwprxfw;
gggggTngurvmfgwfzx-siryruv,gzubgtngbzn
gggggBzxpiuruvgfmigyrvmfgzubgty.ffruvg.qfgfmigwqu;
gggggV.gfm.qgdngru iuwigqjhzxbgcx.dgfmrwgmizxfm,
gggggZubgzwpgfmigv.bwgf.gjzxb.ugfmrwg yizxgcyzdia

Mzxbgvxiiugh..bgkqwfg qf,gfm.qvmgRgqwibgtqfgyrffyig.cgfmzf,gzuwhixibgdn
jqxj.wigtiffixgfmzugzung.fmixagRgw.difrdiwgyicfgzgv..bgcrxighmiugRghiuf
f.gfzpigzghzypgrugzghrufixgzcfixu..u;gzubghmiugRgxifqxuib,gfmxiig.x
c.qxgm.qxwgzcfixhzxb,grfgh.qybgtigwfryygzyrsigzubgvy.hruvagDngm.qwighzw
u.fgidjfngfm.qvmgRghzwgv.uiagRfghzwgzwgrcgRgmzbgyicfgzg miixcqy
m.qwipiijixgtimrubagRfghzwgRgzubgCrxigfmzfgyrsibgfmixi;gzubg .dd.uyngdn
m.qwipiijixgjx.sibgfxqwfh.xfmnag.uigbzn,gm.hisix,gzwgRghzwgwjyrffruv
h..b,gRgfm.qvmfgfmzfgRgh.qybgkqwfgy..pgrugzfgfmighrub.hgzubgwiigrcgfmi
m.qwighzwgu.fg.ugcrxi;grfghzwgfmig.uyngfrdigRgxididtixgf.gmzsigtiiu
jzxfr qyzxyngzuor.qwg.ugfmrwgw .xi;gw.gRgy..pibgzubgwzhgfmzfgzgwjzxp
mzbg zqvmfgdngtib,gzubgRghiufgrugzubgiofruvqrwmibgrfghmiugrfgmzbgtqxuib
zgjyz igzwgtrvgzwgdngmzubagTqfgdngm.qwig.  qjribgw.gwquungzubgwmiyfixib
zgj.wrfr.u,gzubgrfwgx..cghzwgw.gy.h,gfmzfgRg .qybgzcc.xbgf.gyifgfmi
crxigv.g.qfgrugfmigdrbbyig.cgzyd.wfgzunghrufixgbzna

Fmigd.yiwguiwfibgrugdng iyyzx,gurttyruvgisixngfmrxbgj.fzf.,gzubgdzpruv
zgwuqvgtibgisiugfmixig.cgw.digmzrxgyicfgzcfixgjyzwfixruvgzubg.cgtx.hu
jzjix;gc.xgisiugfmighrybiwfgzurdzywgy.sig .dc.xfgzubghzxdfmgzwghiyygzw
dzu,gzubgfmingwqxsrsigfmighrufixg.uyngti zqwigfmingzxigw.g zxicqygf.
wi qxigfmidagW.dig.cgdngcxriubwgwj.pigzwgrcgRghzwg .druvgf.gfmigh..bw
.ugjqxj.wigf.gcxiieigdnwiycagFmigzurdzygdixiyngdzpiwgzgtib,ghmr mgmi
hzxdwghrfmgmrwgt.bn,grugzgwmiyfixibgjyz i;gtqfgdzu,gmzsruvgbrw .sixib
crxi,gt.oiwgqjgw.digzrxgrugzgwjz r.qwgzjzxfdiuf,gzubghzxdwgfmzf,
ruwfizbg.cgx.ttruvgmrdwiyc,gdzpiwgfmzfgmrwgtib,grughmr mgmig zugd.si
zt.qfgbrsiwfibg.cgd.xig qdtx.qwg y.fmruv,gdzrufzrugzgprubg.cgwqddixgru
fmigdrbwfg.cghrufix,gzubgtngdizuwg.cghrub.hwgisiugzbdrfgfmigyrvmf,gzub
hrfmgzgyzdjgyiuvfmiug.qfgfmigbznagFmqwgmigv.iwgzgwfijg.xgfh.gtin.ub
ruwfru f,gzubgwzsiwgzgyrffyigfrdigc.xgfmigcruigzxfwagFm.qvm,ghmiugRgmzb
tiiugioj.wibgf.gfmigxqbiwfgtyzwfwgzgy.uvgfrdi,gdnghm.yigt.bngtivzugf.
vx.hgf.xjrb,ghmiugRgxiz mibgfmigviurzygzfd.wjmixig.cgdngm.qwigRgw..u
xi .sixibgdngcz qyfriwgzubgjx.y.uvibgdngyrciagTqfgfmigd.wfgyqoqxr.qwyn
m.qwibgmzwgyrffyigf.gt.zwfg.cgrugfmrwgxiwji f,gu.xguiibghigfx.qtyi
.qxwiysiwgf.gwji qyzfigm.hgfmigmqdzugxz igdzngtigzfgyzwfgbiwfx.nibagRf
h.qybgtigizwngf.g qfgfmirxgfmxizbwgzungfrdighrfmgzgyrffyigwmzxjixgtyzwf
cx.dgfmigu.xfmagHigv.g.ugbzfruvgcx.dg .ybgCxrbznwgzubgVxizfgWu.hw;gtqf
zgyrffyig .ybixgCxrbzn,g.xgvxizfixgwu.h,gh.qybgjqfgzgjixr.bgf.gdzu’w
iorwfiu ig.ugfmigvy.tia

FmiguiofghrufixgRgqwibgzgwdzyyg ..pruv-wf.sigc.xgi .u.dn,gwru igRgbrb
u.fg.hugfmigc.xiwf;gtqfgrfgbrbgu.fgpiijgcrxigw.ghiyygzwgfmig.jiu
crxi-jyz iag ..pruvghzwgfmiu,gc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,gu.gy.uvixgzgj.ifr ,
tqfgdixiyngzg midr gjx. iwwagRfghryygw..ugtigc.xv.ffiu,grugfmiwigbznw
.cgwf.siw,gfmzfghigqwibgf.gx.zwfgj.fzf.iwgrugfmigzwmiw,gzcfixgfmi
Rubrzugczwmr.uagFmigwf.sigu.fg.uyngf..pgqjgx..dgzubgw iufibgfmigm.qwi,
tqfgrfg .u izyibgfmigcrxi,gzubgRgciyfgzwgrcgRgmzbgy.wfgzg .djzur.uagN.q
 zugzyhznwgwiigzgcz igrugfmigcrxiagFmigyzt.xix,gy..pruvgruf.grfgzf
isiuruv,gjqxrcriwgmrwgfm.qvmfwg.cgfmigbx.wwgzubgizxfmruiwwghmr mgfmin
mzsigz  qdqyzfibgbqxruvgfmigbznagTqfgRg .qybgu.gy.uvixgwrfgzubgy..p
ruf.gfmigcrxi,gzubgfmigjixfruiufgh.xbwg.cgzgj.ifgxi qxxibgf.gdighrfm
uihgc.x ia—

ggggg“Uisix,gtxrvmfgcyzdi,gdzngtigbiuribgf.gdi
gggggFmngbizx,gyrcigrdzvruv,g y.wigwndjzfmna
gggggHmzfgtqfgdngm.jiwgwm.fgqjhzxbgi’ixgw.gtxrvmf?
gggggHmzfgtqfgdngc.xfquiwgwqupgw.gy.hgrugurvmf?

gggggHmngzxfgfm.qgtzurwmibgcx.dg.qxgmizxfmgzubgmzyy,
gggggFm.qghm.gzxfghiy .dibgzubgtiy.sibgtngzyy?
gggggHzwgfmngiorwfiu igfmiugf..gczu rcqy
gggggC.xg.qxgyrci’wg .dd.ugyrvmf,ghm.gzxigw.gbqyy?
gggggBrbgfmngtxrvmfgvyizdgdnwfixr.qwg .usixwigm.yb
gggggHrfmg.qxg .uviurzygw.qyw?gwi xifwgf..gt.yb?
gggggHiyy,ghigzxigwzcigzubgwfx.uv,gc.xgu.hghigwrf
gggggTiwrbigzgmizxfmghmixigu.gbrdgwmzb.hwgcyrf,
gggggHmixigu.fmruvg miixwgu.xgwzbbiuw,gtqfgzgcrxi
gggggHzxdwgciifgzubgmzubw—u.xgb.iwgf.gd.xigzwjrxi;
gggggTnghm.wig .djz fgqfryrfzxrzugmizj
gggggFmigjxiwiufgdzngwrfgb.hugzubgv.gf.gwyiij,
gggggU.xgcizxgfmigvm.wfwghm.gcx.dgfmigbrdgjzwfghzypib,
gggggZubghrfmgqwgtngfmigquilqzygyrvmfg.cgfmig.ybgh..bgcrxigfzypiba”



C.xdixgRumztrfzufwgzubgHrufixgSrwrf.xw

Rghizfmixibgw.digdixxngwu.hgwf.xdw,gzubgwjiufgw.dig miixcqyghrufix
isiuruvwgtngdngcrxi-wrbi,ghmryigfmigwu.hghmrxyibghrybynghrfm.qf,gzub
isiugfmigm..fruvg.cgfmig.hyghzwgmqwmibagC.xgdzunghiipwgRgdifgu.g.uigru
dnghzypwgtqfgfm.wighm.g zdig.  zwr.uzyyngf.g qfgh..bgzubgwyibgrfgf.gfmi
sryyzviagFmigiyidiufw,gm.hisix,gztiffibgdigrugdzpruvgzgjzfmgfmx.qvmgfmi
biijiwfgwu.hgrugfmigh..bw,gc.xghmiugRgmzbg.u igv.uigfmx.qvmgfmighrub
tyihgfmig.zpgyizsiwgruf.gdngfxz pw,ghmixigfmingy.bvib,gzubgtngztw.xtruv
fmigxznwg.cgfmigwqugdiyfibgfmigwu.h,gzubgw.gu.fg.uyngdzbigzgbxngtibgc.x
dngciif,gtqfgrugfmigurvmfgfmirxgbzxpgyruighzwgdngvqrbiagC.xgmqdzu
w. rifngRghzwg.tyrvibgf.g .ukqxigqjgfmigc.xdixg.  qjzufwg.cgfmiwi
h..bwagHrfmrugfmigdid.xng.cgdzung.cgdngf.huwdiugfmigx.zbguizxghmr mgdn
m.qwigwfzubwgxiw.qubibghrfmgfmigyzqvmgzubgv.wwrjg.cgrumztrfzufw,gzub
fmigh..bwghmr mgt.xbixgrfghixigu.f mibgzubgb.ffibgmixigzubgfmixighrfm
fmirxgyrffyigvzxbiuwgzubgbhiyyruvw,gfm.qvmgrfghzwgfmiugdq mgd.xigwmqf
rugtngfmigc.xiwfgfmzugu.hagRugw.digjyz iw,ghrfmrugdng.hugxididtxzu i,
fmigjruiwgh.qybgw xzjigt.fmgwrbiwg.cgzg mzrwigzfg.u i,gzubgh.diugzub
 mrybxiughm.ghixig .djiyyibgf.gv.gfmrwghzngf.gYru .yugzy.uigzubg.ugc..f
brbgrfghrfmgcizx,gzubg.cfiugxzugzgv..bgjzxfg.cgfmigbrwfzu iagFm.qvm
dzruyngtqfgzgmqdtyigx.qfigf.guirvmt.xruvgsryyzviw,g.xgc.xgfmigh..bdzu’w
fizd,grfg.u igzdqwibgfmigfxzsiyyixgd.xigfmzugu.hgtngrfwgszxrifn,gzub
yruvixibgy.uvixgrugmrwgdid.xnagHmixigu.hgcrxdg.jiugcriybwgwfxif mgcx.d
fmigsryyzvigf.gfmigh..bw,grfgfmiugxzugfmx.qvmgzgdzjyigwhzdjg.ugz
c.qubzfr.ug.cgy.vw,gfmigxiduzufwg.cghmr m,gb.qtfyiww,gwfryygqubixyri
fmigjxiwiufgbqwfngmrvmhzn,gcx.dgfmigWfxzff.u,gu.hgfmigZydwgM.qwi,gCzxd,
f.gTxrwfix’wgMryya

Izwfg.cgdngtizu-criyb,gz x.wwgfmigx.zb,gyrsibg zf.gRuvxzmzd,gwyzsig.c
Bqu zugRuvxzmzd,gIwlqrxi,gviufyidzu,g.cg .u .xbgsryyzvi,ghm.gtqryfgmrw
wyzsigzgm.qwi,gzubgvzsigmrdgjixdrwwr.ugf.gyrsigrugHzybiugH..bw;— zf.,
u.fgQfr iuwrw,gtqfg .u .xbriuwrwagW.digwzngfmzfgmighzwgzgVqruizgUivx.a
Fmixigzxigzgcihghm.gxididtixgmrwgyrffyigjzf mgzd.uvgfmighzyuqfw,ghmr m
migyifgvx.hgqjgfryygmigwm.qybgtig.ybgzubguiibgfmid;gtqfgzgn.quvixgzub
hmrfixgwji qyzf.xgv.fgfmidgzfgyzwfagMigf..,gm.hisix,g.  qjriwgzu
ilqzyynguzxx.hgm.qwigzfgjxiwiufag zf.’wgmzyc-.tyrfixzfibg iyyzxgm.yi
wfryygxidzruw,gfm.qvmgpu.hugf.gcih,gtiruvg .u izyibgcx.dgfmigfxzsiyyix
tngzgcxruvig.cgjruiwagRfgrwgu.hgcryyibghrfmgfmigwd..fmgwqdz mg(_Xmqw
vyztxz_,)gzubg.uig.cgfmigizxyriwfgwji riwg.cgv.ybiu-x.bg(_W.yrbzv.
wfxr fz_)gvx.hwgfmixigyqoqxrzufyna

Mixi,gtngfmigsixng .xuixg.cgdngcriyb,gwfryyguizxixgf.gf.hu,gEryjmz,gz
 .y.xibgh.dzu,gmzbgmixgyrffyigm.qwi,ghmixigwmigwjqugyruiugc.xgfmi
f.huwc.yp,gdzpruvgfmigHzybiugH..bwgxruvghrfmgmixgwmxryygwruvruv,gc.x
wmigmzbgzgy.qbgzubgu.fztyigs.r iagZfgyiuvfm,grugfmighzxg.cg1812,gmix
bhiyyruvghzwgwifg.ugcrxigtngIuvyrwmgw.ybrixw,gjxrw.uixwg.ugjzx.yi,ghmiu
wmighzwgzhzn,gzubgmixg zfgzubgb.vgzubgmiuwghixigzyygtqxuibgqjgf.vifmixa
Wmigyibgzgmzxbgyrci,gzubgw.dihmzfgrumqdzuiag.uig.ybgcxilqiufixg.cgfmiwi
h..bwgxididtixw,gfmzfgzwgmigjzwwibgmixgm.qwig.uigu..ugmigmizxbgmix
dqffixruvgf.gmixwiycg.sixgmixgvqxvyruvgj.f,—“Nigzxigzyygt.uiw,gt.uiw!”
Rgmzsigwiiugtxr pwgzdrbgfmig.zpg .jwigfmixia

B.hugfmigx.zb,g.ugfmigxrvmfgmzub,g.ugTxrwfix’wgMryy,gyrsibgTxrwfix
Cxiidzu,g“zgmzubngUivx.,”gwyzsig.cgWlqrxig qddruvwg.u i,—fmixighmixi
vx.hgwfryygfmigzjjyi-fxiiwghmr mgTxrwfixgjyzufibgzubgfiubib;gyzxvig.yb
fxiiwgu.h,gtqfgfmirxgcxqrfgwfryyghrybgzubg rbixrwmgf.gdngfzwfiagU.f
y.uvgwru igRgxizbgmrwgijrfzjmgrugfmig.ybgYru .yugtqxnruv-vx.qub,gz
yrffyig.ug.uigwrbi,guizxgfmigqudzxpibgvxzsiwg.cgw.digTxrfrwmgvxiuzbrixw
hm.gciyygrugfmigxifxizfgcx.dg .u .xb,—hmixigmigrwgwfnyibg“Wrjjr.
Txrwfix,”—W rjr.gZcxr zuqwgmigmzbgw.digfrfyigf.gtig zyyib,—“zgdzug.c
 .y.x,”gzwgrcgmighixigbrw .y.xibagRfgzyw.gf.ybgdi,ghrfmgwfzxruv
idjmzwrw,ghmiugmigbrib;ghmr mghzwgtqfgzugrubrxi fghzng.cgruc.xdruvgdi
fmzfgmigisixgyrsibagHrfmgmrdgbhiyfgCiubz,gmrwgm.wjrfztyighrci,ghm.gf.yb
c.xfquiw,gnifgjyizwzufyn,—yzxvi,gx.qub,gzubgtyz p,gtyz pixgfmzugzung.c
fmig mrybxiug.cgurvmf,gwq mgzgbqwpng.xtgzwguisixgx.wig.ug .u .xbgtic.xi
.xgwru ia

Czxfmixgb.hugfmigmryy,g.ugfmigyicf,g.ugfmig.ybgx.zbgrugfmigh..bw,gzxi
dzxpwg.cgw.digm.diwfizbg.cgfmigWfxzff.ugczdryn;ghm.wig.x mzxbg.u i
 .sixibgzyygfmigwy.jig.cgTxrwfix’wgMryy,gtqfghzwgy.uvgwru igpryyibg.qf
tngjrf mgjruiw,gio ijfruvgzgcihgwfqdjw,ghm.wig.ybgx..fwgcqxurwmgwfryy
fmighrybgwf. pwg.cgdzungzgfmxrcfngsryyzvigfxiia

Uizxixgnifgf.gf.hu,gn.qg .digf.gTxiib’wgy. zfr.u,g.ugfmig.fmixgwrbig.c
fmighzn,gkqwfg.ugfmigibvig.cgfmigh..b;gvx.qubgczd.qwgc.xgfmigjxzupwg.c
zgbid.ugu.fgbrwfru fynguzdibgrug.ybgdnfm.y.vn,ghm.gmzwgz fibgz
jx.druiufgzubgzwf.qubruvgjzxfgrug.qxgUihgIuvyzubgyrci,gzubgbiwixsiw,gzw
dq mgzwgzungdnfm.y.vr zyg mzxz fix,gf.gmzsigmrwgtr.vxzjmnghxrffiug.ui
bzn;ghm.gcrxwfg .diwgrugfmigvqrwig.cgzgcxriubg.xgmrxibgdzu,gzubgfmiu
x.twgzubgdqxbixwgfmighm.yigczdryn,—Uih-IuvyzubgXqdagTqfgmrwf.xngdqwf
u.fgnifgfiyygfmigfxzvibriwgiuz fibgmixi;gyifgfrdigrufixsiuigrugw.di
dizwqxigf.gzwwqzvigzubgyiubgzugzeqxigfrufgf.gfmidagMixigfmigd.wf
rubrwfru fgzubgbqtr.qwgfxzbrfr.ugwznwgfmzfg.u igzgfzsixugwf..b;gfmi
hiyygfmigwzdi,ghmr mgfidjixibgfmigfxzsiyyix’wgtisixzvigzubgxicxiwmib
mrwgwfiibagMixigfmiugdiugwzyqfibg.uigzu.fmix,gzubgmizxbgzubgf.ybgfmi
uihw,gzubghiufgfmirxghznwgzvzrua

Txiib’wgmqfghzwgwfzubruvg.uyngzgb.eiugnizxwgzv.,gfm.qvmgrfgmzbgy.uv
tiiugqu.  qjribagRfghzwgzt.qfgfmigwreig.cgdruiagRfghzwgwifg.ugcrxigtn
drw mris.qwgt.nw,g.uigIyi fr.ugurvmf,grcgRgb.gu.fgdrwfzpiagRgyrsibg.u
fmigibvig.cgfmigsryyzvigfmiu,gzubgmzbgkqwfgy.wfgdnwiycg.sixgBzsiuzuf’w
V.ubrtixf,gfmzfghrufixgfmzfgRgyzt.xibghrfmgzgyifmzxvn,—hmr m,gtngfmi
hzn,gRguisixgpuihghmifmixgf.gxivzxbgzwgzgczdryng .djyzruf,gmzsruvgzu
qu yighm.gv.iwgf.gwyiijgwmzsruvgmrdwiyc,gzubgrwg.tyrvibgf.gwjx.qf
j.fzf.iwgrugzg iyyzxgWqubznw,grug.xbixgf.gpiijgzhzpigzubgpiijgfmi
Wzttzfm,g.xgzwgfmig .uwilqiu ig.cgdngzffidjfgf.gxizbg mzydixw’
 .yyi fr.ug.cgIuvyrwmgj.ifxnghrfm.qfgwprjjruvagRfgczrxyng.six zdigdn
UixsrragRgmzbgkqwfgwqupgdngmizbg.ugfmrwghmiugfmigtiyywgxquvgcrxi,gzub
rugm.fgmzwfigfmigiuvruiwgx.yyibgfmzfghzn,gyibgtngzgwfxzvvyruvgfx..jg.c
diugzubgt.nw,gzubgRgzd.uvgfmigc.xid.wf,gc.xgRgmzbgyizjibgfmigtx..pagHi
fm.qvmfgrfghzwgczxgw.qfmg.sixgfmigh..bw,—highm.gmzbgxqugf.gcrxiw
tic.xi,—tzxu,gwm.j,g.xgbhiyyruv-m.qwi,g.xgzyygf.vifmixag“Rf’wgTzpix’w
tzxu,”g xribg.uiag“Rfgrwgfmig .bdzugjyz i,”gzccrxdibgzu.fmixagZubgfmiu
cxiwmgwjzxpwghiufgqjgzt.sigfmigh..b,gzwgrcgfmigx..cgciyygru,gzubghigzyy
wm.qfibg“ .u .xbgf.gfmigxiw qi!”gHzv.uwgwm.fgjzwfghrfmgcqxr.qwgwjiib
zubg xqwmruvgy.zbw,gtizxruv,gjix mzu i,gzd.uvgfmigxiwf,gfmigzviufg.c
fmigRuwqxzu ig .djzun,ghm.ghzwgt.qubgf.gv.gm.hisixgczx;gzubgisixgzub
zu.ugfmigiuvruigtiyygfrupyibgtimrub,gd.xigwy.hgzubgwqxi;gzubgxizxd.wf
.cgzyy,gzwgrfghzwgzcfixhzxbghmrwjixib,g zdigfminghm.gwifgfmigcrxigzub
vzsigfmigzyzxdagFmqwghigpijfg.ugyrpigfxqigrbizyrwfw,gxiki fruvgfmi
isrbiu ig.cg.qxgwiuwiw,gqufrygzfgzgfqxugrugfmigx.zbghigmizxbgfmi
 xz pyruvgzubgz fqzyyngciyfgfmigmizfg.cgfmigcrxigcx.dg.sixgfmighzyy,
zubgxizyreib,gzyzw!gfmzfghighixigfmixiagFmigsixnguizxuiwwg.cgfmigcrxi
tqfg ..yibg.qxgzxb.xagZfgcrxwfghigfm.qvmfgf.gfmx.hgzgcx.v-j.ubg.ugf.
rf;gtqfg .u yqbibgf.gyifgrfgtqxu,grfghzwgw.gczxgv.uigzubgw.gh.xfmyiwwa
W.ghigwf..bgx.qubg.qxgiuvrui,gk.wfyibg.uigzu.fmix,giojxiwwibg.qx
wiufrdiufwgfmx.qvmgwjizpruv-fxqdjifw,g.xgrugy.hixgf.uigxicixxibgf.gfmi
vxizfg .ucyzvxzfr.uwghmr mgfmigh.xybgmzwghrfuiwwib,gru yqbruvgTzw .d’w
wm.j,gzub,gtifhiiug.qxwiysiw,ghigfm.qvmfgfmzf,ghixighigfmixigrugwizw.u
hrfmg.qxg“fqt,”gzubgzgcqyygcx.v-j.ubgtn,ghig .qybgfqxugfmzfgfmxizfiuib
yzwfgzubgqursixwzyg.uigruf.gzu.fmixgcy..bagHigcruzyyngxifxizfibghrfm.qf
b.ruvgzungdrw mric,—xifqxuibgf.gwyiijgzubgV.ubrtixfagTqfgzwgc.x
V.ubrtixf,gRgh.qybgio ijfgfmzfgjzwwzvigrugfmigjxicz igzt.qfghrfgtiruv
fmigw.qy’wgj.hbix,—“tqfgd.wfg.cgdzuprubgzxigwfxzuvixwgf.ghrf,gzw
Rubrzuwgzxigf.gj.hbixa”

Rfg mzu ibgfmzfgRghzypibgfmzfghzngz x.wwgfmigcriybwgfmigc.yy.hruv
urvmf,gzt.qfgfmigwzdigm.qx,gzubgmizxruvgzgy.hgd.zuruvgzfgfmrwgwj.f,gR
bxihguizxgrugfmigbzxp,gzubgbrw .sixibgfmig.uyngwqxsrs.xg.cgfmigczdryn
fmzfgRgpu.h,gfmigmirxg.cgt.fmgrfwgsrxfqiwgzubgrfwgsr iw,ghm.gzy.uighzw
rufixiwfibgrugfmrwgtqxuruv,gynruvg.ugmrwgwf.dz mgzubgy..pruvg.sixgfmi
 iyyzxghzyygzfgfmigwfryygwd.qybixruvg rubixwgtiuizfm,gdqffixruvgf.
mrdwiyc,gzwgrwgmrwgh.ufagMigmzbgtiiugh.xpruvgczxg.ccgrugfmigxrsix
dizb.hwgzyygbzn,gzubgmzbgrdjx.sibgfmigcrxwfgd.diufwgfmzfgmig .qybg zyy
mrwg.hugf.gsrwrfgfmigm.dig.cgmrwgczfmixwgzubgmrwgn.qfmagMigvzeibgruf.
fmig iyyzxgcx.dgzyygwrbiwgzubgj.rufwg.cgsrihgtngfqxuw,gzyhznwgynruv
b.hugf.grf,gzwgrcgfmixighzwgw.digfxizwqxi,ghmr mgmigxididtixib,
 .u izyibgtifhiiugfmigwf.uiw,ghmixigfmixighzwgztw.yqfiyngu.fmruvgtqfgz
mizjg.cgtxr pwgzubgzwmiwagFmigm.qwigtiruvgv.ui,gmigy..pibgzfghmzfgfmixi
hzwgyicfagMighzwgw..fmibgtngfmigwndjzfmnghmr mgdngdixigjxiwiu i
rdjyrib,gzubgwm.hibgdi,gzwghiyygzwgfmigbzxpuiwwgjixdrffib,ghmixigfmi
hiyyghzwg .sixibgqj;ghmr m,gfmzupgMizsiu,g .qybguisixgtigtqxuib;gzubgmi
vx.jibgy.uvgzt.qfgfmighzyygf.gcrubgfmighiyy-whiijghmr mgmrwgczfmixgmzb
 qfgzubgd.qufib,gciiyruvgc.xgfmigrx.ugm..pg.xgwfzjyigtnghmr mgzgtqxbiu
mzbgtiiugczwfiuibgf.gfmigmizsngiub,—zyygfmzfgmig .qybgu.hg yruvgf.,—f.
 .usru igdigfmzfgrfghzwgu.g .dd.ug“xrbixa”gRgciyfgrf,gzubgwfryygxidzxp
rfgzyd.wfgbzryngrugdnghzypw,gc.xgtngrfgmzuvwgfmigmrwf.xng.cgzgczdryna

.u igd.xi,g.ugfmigyicf,ghmixigzxigwiiugfmighiyygzubgyryz gtqwmiwgtngfmi
hzyy,grugfmigu.hg.jiugcriyb,gyrsibgUqffruvgzubgYigVx.wwiagTqfgf.gxifqxu
f.hzxbgYru .yua

Czxfmixgrugfmigh..bwgfmzugzung.cgfmiwi,ghmixigfmigx.zbgzjjx.z miw
uizxiwfgf.gfmigj.ub,gHndzugfmigj.ffixgwlqzffib,gzubgcqxurwmibgmrw
f.huwdiughrfmgizxfmiughzxi,gzubgyicfgbiw iubzufwgf.gwq  iibgmrda
Uirfmixghixigfmingxr mgrugh.xybyngv..bw,gm.ybruvgfmigyzubgtngwqccixzu i
hmryigfmingyrsib;gzubgfmixig.cfiugfmigwmixrccg zdigrugszrugf.g .yyi f
fmigfzoiw,gzubg“zffz mibgzg mrj,”gc.xgc.xd’wgwzpi,gzwgRgmzsigxizbgru
mrwgz  .qufw,gfmixigtiruvgu.fmruvgiywigfmzfgmig .qybgyzngmrwgmzubwg.ua
.uigbzngrugdrbwqddix,ghmiugRghzwgm.iruv,gzgdzughm.ghzwg zxxnruvgzgy.zb
.cgj.ffixngf.gdzxpifgwf.jjibgmrwgm.xwigzvzruwfgdngcriybgzubgrulqrxib
 .u ixuruvgHndzugfmign.quvixagMigmzbgy.uvgzv.gt.qvmfgzgj.ffix’wghmiiy
.cgmrd,gzubghrwmibgf.gpu.hghmzfgmzbgti .dig.cgmrdagRgmzbgxizbg.cgfmi
j.ffix’wg yzngzubghmiiygrugW xrjfqxi,gtqfgrfgmzbguisixg.  qxxibgf.gdi
fmzfgfmigj.fwghigqwighixigu.fgwq mgzwgmzbg .digb.hugqutx.piugcx.dgfm.wi
bznw,g.xgvx.hug.ugfxiiwgyrpigv.qxbwgw.dihmixi,gzubgRghzwgjyizwibgf.
mizxgfmzfgw.gcr fryigzugzxfghzwgisixgjxz fr ibgrugdnguirvmt.xm..ba

Fmigyzwfgrumztrfzufg.cgfmiwigh..bwgtic.xigdighzwgzugRxrwmdzu,gMqvm
Lq.ryg(rcgRgmzsigwjiyfgmrwguzdighrfmg .rygiu.qvm,)ghm.g.  qjribgHndzu’w
fiuidiuf,— .yagLq.ry,gmighzwg zyyibagXqd.xgwzrbgfmzfgmigmzbgtiiugz
w.ybrixgzfgHzfixy..agRcgmigmzbgyrsibgRgwm.qybgmzsigdzbigmrdgcrvmfgmrw
tzffyiwg.sixgzvzruagMrwgfxzbigmixighzwgfmzfg.cgzgbrf mixagUzj.yi.ughiuf
f.gWfagMiyiuz;gLq.ryg zdigf.gHzybiugH..bwagZyygRgpu.hg.cgmrdgrwgfxzvr a
Mighzwgzgdzug.cgdzuuixw,gyrpig.uighm.gmzbgwiiugfmigh.xyb,gzubghzw
 zjztyig.cgd.xig rsrygwjii mgfmzugn.qg .qybghiyygzffiubgf.agMigh.xigz
vxizfg .zfgrugdrb-wqddix,gtiruvgzcci fibghrfmgfmigfxidtyruvgbiyrxrqd,
zubgmrwgcz ighzwgfmig .y.xg.cg zxdruiagMigbribgrugfmigx.zbgzfgfmigc..f
.cgTxrwfix’wgMryygwm.xfyngzcfixgRg zdigf.gfmigh..bw,gw.gfmzfgRgmzsigu.f
xididtixibgmrdgzwgzguirvmt.xagTic.xigmrwgm.qwighzwgjqyyibgb.hu,ghmiu
mrwg .dxzbiwgzs.rbibgrfgzwg“zugquyq png zwfyi,”gRgsrwrfibgrfagFmixigyzn
mrwg.ybg y.fmiwg qxyibgqjgtngqwi,gzwgrcgfminghixigmrdwiyc,gqj.ugmrw
xzrwibgjyzupgtibagMrwgjrjigyzngtx.piug.ugfmigmizxfm,gruwfizbg.cgzgt.hy
tx.piugzfgfmigc.qufzruagFmigyzwfg .qybguisixgmzsigtiiugfmigwndt.yg.c
mrwgbizfm,gc.xgmig .uciwwibgf.gdigfmzf,gfm.qvmgmigmzbgmizxbg.c
Txrwfix’wgWjxruv,gmigmzbguisixgwiiugrf;gzubgw.ryibg zxbw,gpruvwg.c
brzd.ubwgwjzbiwgzubgmizxfw,ghixigw zffixibg.sixgfmigcy..xag.uigtyz p
 mr piughmr mgfmigzbdrurwfxzf.xg .qybgu.fg zf m,gtyz pgzwgurvmfgzubgzw
wryiuf,gu.fgisiug x.zpruv,gzhzrfruvgXinuzxb,gwfryyghiufgf.gx..wfgrugfmi
uiofgzjzxfdiufagRugfmigxizxgfmixighzwgfmigbrdg.qfyruig.cgzgvzxbiu,
hmr mgmzbgtiiugjyzufibgtqfgmzbguisixgxi irsibgrfwgcrxwfgm.iruv,g.hruv
f.gfm.wigfixxrtyigwmzpruvgcrfw,gfm.qvmgrfghzwgu.hgmzxsiwfgfrdiagRfghzw
.six-xqughrfmgX.dzugh.xdh..bgzubgtivvzx-fr pw,ghmr mgyzwfgwfq pgf.gdn
 y.fmiwgc.xgzyygcxqrfagFmigwprug.cgzgh..b mq pghzwgcxiwmyngwfxif mib
qj.ugfmigtz pg.cgfmigm.qwi,gzgfx.jmng.cgmrwgyzwfgHzfixy..;gtqfgu.ghzxd
 zjg.xgdrffiuwgh.qybgmighzufgd.xia

U.hg.uyngzgbiufgrugfmigizxfmgdzxpwgfmigwrfig.cgfmiwigbhiyyruvw,ghrfm
tqxribg iyyzxgwf.uiw,gzubgwfxzhtixxriw,gxzwjtixxriw,gfmrdtyi-tixxriw,
mzeiy-tqwmiw,gzubgwqdz mwgvx.hruvgrugfmigwquungwhzxbgfmixi;gw.di
jrf m-jruig.xgvuzxyibg.zpg.  qjriwghmzfghzwgfmig mrduingu..p,gzubgz
whiif-w iufibgtyz p-trx m,gjixmzjw,ghzsiwghmixigfmigb..x-wf.uighzwa
W.difrdiwgfmighiyygbiufgrwgsrwrtyi,ghmixig.u igzgwjxruvg..eib;gu.hgbxn
zubgfizxyiwwgvxzww;g.xgrfghzwg .sixibgbiij,—u.fgf.gtigbrw .sixibgfryy
w.digyzfigbzn,—hrfmgzgcyzfgwf.uigqubixgfmigw.b,ghmiugfmigyzwfg.cgfmi
xz igbijzxfibagHmzfgzgw.xx.hcqygz fgdqwfgfmzfgti,—fmig .sixruvgqjg.c
hiyyw!g .ru rbiufghrfmgfmig.jiuruvg.cghiyywg.cgfizxwagFmiwig iyyzx
biufw,gyrpigbiwixfibgc.ogtqxx.hw,g.ybgm.yiw,gzxigzyygfmzfgrwgyicfghmixi
.u ighixigfmigwfrxgzubgtqwfyig.cgmqdzugyrci,gzubg“czfi,gcxii-hryy,
c.xipu.hyibvigztw.yqfi,”grugw.digc.xdgzubgbrzyi fg.xg.fmixghixigtn
fqxuwgbrw qwwibagTqfgzyygRg zugyizxug.cgfmirxg .u yqwr.uwgzd.qufwgf.
kqwfgfmrw,gfmzfg“ zf.gzubgTxrwfixgjqyyibgh..y;”ghmr mgrwgzt.qfgzw
ibrcnruvgzwgfmigmrwf.xng.cgd.xigczd.qwgw m..ywg.cgjmry.w.jmna

Wfryygvx.hwgfmigsrsz r.qwgyryz gzgviuixzfr.ugzcfixgfmigb..xgzubgyrufiy
zubgfmigwryygzxigv.ui,gquc.ybruvgrfwgwhiif-w iufibgcy.hixwgiz mgwjxruv,
f.gtigjyq pibgtngfmigdqwruvgfxzsiyyix;gjyzufibgzubgfiubibg.u igtn
 mrybxiu’wgmzubw,grugcx.uf-nzxbgjy.fw,—u.hgwfzubruvgtnghzyy-wrbiwgru
xifrxibgjzwfqxiw,gzubgvrsruvgjyz igf.guih-xrwruvgc.xiwfw;—fmigyzwfg.c
fmzfgwfrxj,gw.yigwqxsrs.xg.cgfmzfgczdrynagYrffyigbrbgfmigbqwpng mrybxiu
fmrupgfmzfgfmigjqungwyrjghrfmgrfwgfh.giniwg.uyn,ghmr mgfmingwfq pgru
fmigvx.qubgrugfmigwmzb.hg.cgfmigm.qwigzubgbzrynghzfixib,gh.qybgx..f
rfwiycgw.,gzubg.qfyrsigfmid,gzubgm.qwigrfwiycgrugfmigxizxgfmzfgwmzbib
rf,gzubgvx.hugdzu’wgvzxbiugzubg.x mzxb,gzubgfiyygfmirxgwf.xngczrufyngf.
fmigy.uighzubixixgzgmzycg iufqxngzcfixgfmingmzbgvx.hugqjgzub
brib,—ty.ww.druvgzwgczrx,gzubgwdiyyruvgzwgwhiif,gzwgrugfmzfgcrxwf
wjxruvagRgdzxpgrfwgwfryygfiubix,g rsry,g miixcqy,gyryz g .y.xwa

Tqfgfmrwgwdzyygsryyzvi,gvixdg.cgw.difmruvgd.xi,ghmngbrbgrfgczryghmryi
 .u .xbgpiijwgrfwgvx.qub?gHixigfmixigu.guzfqxzygzbszufzviw,—u.ghzfix
jxrsryiviw,gc.xw..fm?gZn,gfmigbiijgHzybiugJ.ubgzubg ..ygTxrwfix’w
Wjxruv,—jxrsryivigf.gbxrupgy.uvgzubgmizyfmngbxzqvmfwgzfgfmiwi,gzyy
qurdjx.sibgtngfmiwigdiugtqfgf.gbryqfigfmirxgvyzwwagFminghixi
qursixwzyyngzgfmrxwfngxz iagDrvmfgu.fgfmigtzwpif,gwfztyi-tx..d,
dzf-dzpruv,g .xu-jzx mruv,gyruiu-wjruuruv,gzubgj.ffixngtqwruiwwgmzsi
fmxrsibgmixi,gdzpruvgfmighrybixuiwwgf.gty.ww.dgyrpigfmigx.wi,gzubgz
uqdix.qwgj.wfixrfngmzsigrumixrfibgfmigyzubg.cgfmirxgczfmixw?gFmi
wfixryigw.rygh.qybgzfgyizwfgmzsigtiiugjx..cgzvzruwfgzgy.h-yzub
biviuixz nagZyzw!gm.hgyrffyigb.iwgfmigdid.xng.cgfmiwigmqdzugrumztrfzufw
iumzu igfmigtizqfng.cgfmigyzubw zji!gZvzru,gjixmzjw,gUzfqxighryygfxn,
hrfmgdigc.xgzgcrxwfgwiffyix,gzubgdngm.qwigxzrwibgyzwfgwjxruvgf.gtigfmi
.ybiwfgrugfmigmzdyifa

Rgzdgu.fgzhzxigfmzfgzungdzugmzwgisixgtqryfg.ugfmigwj.fghmr mgRg.  qjna
Biyrsixgdigcx.dgzg rfngtqryfg.ugfmigwrfig.cgzgd.xigzu riufg rfn,ghm.wi
dzfixrzywgzxigxqruw,ghm.wigvzxbiuwg idifixriwagFmigw.rygrwgtyzu mibgzub
z  qxwibgfmixi,gzubgtic.xigfmzfgti .diwgui iwwzxngfmigizxfmgrfwiycghryy
tigbiwfx.nibagHrfmgwq mgxidrurw iu iwgRgxiji.jyibgfmigh..bwgzubgyqyyib
dnwiycgzwyiija



Zfgfmrwgwizw.ugRgwiyb.dgmzbgzgsrwrf.xagHmiugfmigwu.hgyzngbiijiwfgu.
hzubixixgsiufqxibguizxgdngm.qwigc.xgzghiipg.xgc.xfurvmfgzfgzgfrdi,gtqf
fmixigRgyrsibgzwgwuqvgzwgzgdizb.hgd.qwi,g.xgzwg zffyigzubgj.qyfxnghmr m
zxigwzrbgf.gmzsigwqxsrsibgc.xgzgy.uvgfrdigtqxribgrugbxrcfw,gisiu
hrfm.qfgc..b;g.xgyrpigfmzfgizxyngwiffyix’wgczdryngrugfmigf.hug.c
Wqff.u,grugfmrwgwfzfi,ghm.wig .ffzvighzwg .djyifiyng .sixibgtngfmi
vxizfgwu.hg.cg1717ghmiugmighzwgztwiuf,gzubgzugRubrzugc.qubgrfg.uyngtn
fmigm.yighmr mgfmig mrduin’wgtxizfmgdzbigrugfmigbxrcf,gzubgw.gxiyrisib
fmigczdrynagTqfgu.gcxriubyngRubrzug .u ixuibgmrdwiycgzt.qfgdi;gu.x
uiibibgmi,gc.xgfmigdzwfixg.cgfmigm.qwighzwgzfgm.diagFmigVxizfgWu.h!gM.h
 miixcqygrfgrwgf.gmizxg.c!gHmiugfmigczxdixwg .qybgu.fgvifgf.gfmigh..bw
zubgwhzdjwghrfmgfmirxgfizdw,gzubghixig.tyrvibgf.g qfgb.hugfmigwmzbi
fxiiwgtic.xigfmirxgm.qwiw,gzubghmiugfmig xqwfghzwgmzxbix,g qfg.ccgfmi
fxiiwgrugfmigwhzdjw,gfiugciifgcx.dgfmigvx.qub,gzwgrfgzjjizxibgfmiguiof
wjxruva

Rugfmigbiijiwfgwu.hw,gfmigjzfmghmr mgRgqwibgcx.dgfmigmrvmhzngf.gdn
m.qwi,gzt.qfgmzycgzgdryigy.uv,gdrvmfgmzsigtiiugxijxiwiufibgtngz
dizubixruvgb.ffibgyrui,ghrfmghrbigrufixszywgtifhiiugfmigb.fwagC.xgz
hiipg.cgisiughizfmixgRgf..pgioz fyngfmigwzdiguqdtixg.cgwfijw,gzubg.c
fmigwzdigyiuvfm,g .druvgzubgv.ruv,gwfijjruvgbiyrtixzfiyngzubghrfmgfmi
jxi rwr.ug.cgzgjzrxg.cgbrsrbixwgrugdng.hugbiijgfxz pw,—f.gwq mgx.qfrui
fmighrufixgxibq iwgqw,—nifg.cfiugfminghixigcryyibghrfmgmizsiu’wg.hu
tyqiagTqfgu.ghizfmixgrufixcixibgczfzyynghrfmgdnghzypw,g.xgxzfmixgdn
v.ruvgztx.zb,gc.xgRgcxilqiufyngfxzdjibgirvmfg.xgfiugdryiwgfmx.qvmgfmi
biijiwfgwu.hgf.gpiijgzugzjj.rufdiufghrfmgzgtii m-fxii,g.xgz
niyy.h-trx m,g.xgzug.ybgz lqzrufzu igzd.uvgfmigjruiw;ghmiugfmigr igzub
wu.hg zqwruvgfmirxgyrdtwgf.gbx..j,gzubgw.gwmzxjiuruvgfmirxgf.jw,gmzb
 mzuvibgfmigjruiwgruf.gcrx-fxiiw;ghzbruvgf.gfmigf.jwg.cgfmigmrvmiwf
mryywghmiugfmigwu.hghzwguizxyngfh.gciifgbiijg.ugzgyisiy,gzubgwmzpruv
b.hugzu.fmixgwu.h-wf.xdg.ugdngmizbgzfgisixngwfij;g.xgw.difrdiwg xiijruv
zubgcy.qubixruvgfmrfmixg.ugdngmzubwgzubgpuiiw,ghmiugfmigmqufixwgmzb
v.uigruf.ghrufixglqzxfixwag.uigzcfixu..ugRgzdqwibgdnwiycgtnghzf mruvgz
tzxxibg.hyg(_Wfxroguitqy.wz_)gwrffruvg.ug.uig.cgfmigy.hixgbizbgyrdtwg.c
zghmrfi-jrui,g y.wigf.gfmigfxqup,grugtx.zbgbznyrvmf,gRgwfzubruvghrfmru
zgx.bg.cgmrdagMig .qybgmizxgdighmiugRgd.sibgzubg x.u mibgfmigwu.hghrfm
dngciif,gtqfg .qybgu.fgjyzruyngwiigdiagHmiugRgdzbigd.wfgu.rwigmigh.qyb
wfxif mg.qfgmrwgui p,gzubgixi fgmrwgui pgcizfmixw,gzubg.jiugmrwginiw
hrbi;gtqfgfmirxgyrbwgw..ugciyygzvzru,gzubgmigtivzugf.gu.bagRgf..gciyfgz
wyqdtix.qwgrucyqiu igzcfixghzf mruvgmrdgmzycgzugm.qx,gzwgmigwzfgfmqw
hrfmgmrwginiwgmzycg.jiu,gyrpigzg zf,ghruvibgtx.fmixg.cgfmig zfagFmixi
hzwg.uyngzguzxx.hgwyrfgyicfgtifhiiugfmirxgyrbw,gtnghmr mgmigjxiwixsibgz
jiuruwqyzxgxiyzfr.ugf.gdi;gfmqw,ghrfmgmzyc-wmqfginiw,gy..pruvg.qfgcx.d
fmigyzubg.cgbxizdw,gzubgiubizs.xruvgf.gxizyreigdi,gszvqig.tki fg.xgd.fi
fmzfgrufixxqjfibgmrwgsrwr.uwagZfgyiuvfm,g.ugw.digy.qbixgu.rwig.xgdn
uizxixgzjjx.z m,gmigh.qybgvx.hgquizwngzubgwyqvvrwmyngfqxugzt.qfg.ugmrw
jix m,gzwgrcgrdjzfriufgzfgmzsruvgmrwgbxizdwgbrwfqxtib;gzubghmiugmi
yzqu mibgmrdwiycg.ccgzubgcyzjjibgfmx.qvmgfmigjruiw,gwjxizbruvgmrwghruvw
f.gquioji fibgtxizbfm,gRg .qybgu.fgmizxgfmigwyrvmfiwfgw.qubgcx.dgfmida
Fmqw,gvqrbibgzdrbgfmigjruigt.qvmwgxzfmixgtngzgbiyr zfigwiuwig.cgfmirx
uirvmt.xm..bgfmzugtngwrvmf,gciiyruvgmrwgfhryrvmfghzngzwgrfghixighrfm
mrwgwiuwrfrsigjrur.uw,gmigc.qubgzguihgjix m,ghmixigmigdrvmfgrugjiz i
zhzrfgfmigbzhuruvg.cgmrwgbzna

ZwgRghzypibg.sixgfmigy.uvg zqwihzngdzbigc.xgfmigxzryx.zbgfmx.qvmgfmi
dizb.hw,gRgiu .qufixibgdzungzgtyqwfixruvgzubgurjjruvghrub,gc.xgu.hmixi
mzwgrfgcxiixgjyzn;gzubghmiugfmigcx.wfgmzbgwdrffiugdig.ug.uig miip,
mizfmiugzwgRghzw,gRgfqxuibgf.grfgfmig.fmixgzyw.agU.xghzwgrfgdq mgtiffix
tngfmig zxxrzvigx.zbgcx.dgTxrwfix’wgMryyagC.xgRg zdigf.gf.hugwfryy,
yrpigzgcxriubyngRubrzu,ghmiugfmig .ufiufwg.cgfmigtx.zbg.jiugcriybwghixi
zyygjryibgqjgtifhiiugfmighzyywg.cgfmigHzybiugx.zb,gzubgmzycgzugm.qx
wqccr ibgf.g.tyrfixzfigfmigfxz pwg.cgfmigyzwfgfxzsiyyixagZubghmiugR
xifqxuibguihgbxrcfwgh.qybgmzsigc.xdib,gfmx.qvmghmr mgRgcy.qubixib,
hmixigfmigtqwngu.xfm-hiwfghrubgmzbgtiiugbij.wrfruvgfmigj.hbixngwu.h
x.qubgzgwmzxjgzuvyigrugfmigx.zb,gzubgu.fgzgxzttrf’wgfxz p,gu.xgisiugfmi
cruigjxruf,gfmigwdzyygfnji,g.cgzgdizb.hgd.qwighzwgf.gtigwiiuagNifgR
xzxiyngczryibgf.gcrub,gisiugrugdrb-hrufix,gw.dighzxdgzubgwjxruvyngwhzdj
hmixigfmigvxzwwgzubgfmigwpqup- zttzvigwfryygjqfgc.xfmghrfmgjixiuurzy
sixbqxi,gzubgw.digmzxbrixgtrxbg.  zwr.uzyyngzhzrfibgfmigxifqxug.c
wjxruva

W.difrdiw,gu.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmigwu.h,ghmiugRgxifqxuibgcx.dgdnghzypgzf
isiuruvgRg x.wwibgfmigbiijgfxz pwg.cgzgh..b m.jjixgyizbruvgcx.dgdn
b..x,gzubgc.qubgmrwgjryig.cghmrffyruvwg.ugfmigmizxfm,gzubgdngm.qwi
cryyibghrfmgfmig.b.xg.cgmrwgjrjiag.xg.ugzgWqubzngzcfixu..u,grcgR
 mzu ibgf.gtigzfgm.di,gRgmizxbgfmig x.u mruvg.cgfmigwu.hgdzbigtngfmi
wfijg.cgzgy.uv-mizbibgczxdix,ghm.gcx.dgczxgfmx.qvmgfmigh..bwgw.qvmfgdn
m.qwi,gf.gmzsigzgw. rzyg“ xz p;”g.uig.cgfmigcihg.cgmrwgs. zfr.ughm.gzxi
“diug.ugfmirxgczxdw;”ghm.gb.uuibgzgcx. pgruwfizbg.cgzgjx.ciww.x’wgv.hu,
zubgrwgzwgxizbngf.giofxz fgfmigd.xzyg.qfg.cg mqx mg.xgwfzfigzwgf.gmzqy
zgy.zbg.cgdzuqxigcx.dgmrwgtzxu-nzxbagHigfzypibg.cgxqbigzubgwrdjyi
frdiw,ghmiugdiugwzfgzt.qfgyzxvigcrxiwgrug .ybgtxz ruvghizfmix,ghrfm
 yizxgmizbw;gzubghmiug.fmixgbiwwixfgczryib,ghigfxribg.qxgfiifmg.ugdzun
zguqfghmr mghrwigwlqrxxiywgmzsigy.uvgwru igztzub.uib,gc.xgfm.wighmr m
mzsigfmigfmr piwfgwmiyywgzxig .dd.uyngidjfna

Fmig.uighm.g zdigcx.dgczxfmiwfgf.gdngy.bvi,gfmx.qvmgbiijiwfgwu.hwgzub
d.wfgbrwdzygfidjiwfw,ghzwgzgj.ifagZgczxdix,gzgmqufix,gzgw.ybrix,gz
xij.xfix,gisiugzgjmry.w.jmix,gdzngtigbzqufib;gtqfgu.fmruvg zugbifixgz
j.if,gc.xgmigrwgz fqzfibgtngjqxigy.siagHm.g zugjxibr fgmrwg .druvwgzub
v.ruvw?gMrwgtqwruiwwg zyywgmrdg.qfgzfgzyygm.qxw,gisiughmiugb. f.xw
wyiijagHigdzbigfmzfgwdzyygm.qwigxruvghrfmgt.rwfix.qwgdrxfmgzubgxiw.qub
hrfmgfmigdqxdqxg.cgdq mgw.tixgfzyp,gdzpruvgzdiubwgfmiugf.gHzybiugszyi
c.xgfmigy.uvgwryiu iwagTx.zbhznghzwgwfryygzubgbiwixfibgrug .djzxrw.ua
Zfgwqrfztyigrufixszywgfmixighixigxivqyzxgwzyqfiwg.cgyzqvmfix,ghmr m
drvmfgmzsigtiiugxicixxibgrubrccixiufyngf.gfmigyzwfgqffixibg.xgfmi
c.xfm- .druvgkiwfagHigdzbigdzungzg“txzuguih”gfmi.xng.cgyrcig.sixgzgfmru
brwmg.cgvxqiy,ghmr mg .dtruibgfmigzbszufzviwg.cg .usrsrzyrfnghrfmgfmi
 yizx-mizbibuiwwghmr mgjmry.w.jmngxilqrxiwa

Rgwm.qybgu.fgc.xvifgfmzfgbqxruvgdngyzwfghrufixgzfgfmigj.ubgfmixighzw
zu.fmixghiy .digsrwrf.x,ghm.gzfg.uigfrdig zdigfmx.qvmgfmigsryyzvi,
fmx.qvmgwu.hgzubgxzrugzubgbzxpuiww,gfryygmigwzhgdngyzdjgfmx.qvmgfmi
fxiiw,gzubgwmzxibghrfmgdigw.digy.uvghrufixgisiuruvwag.uig.cgfmigyzwfg.c
fmigjmry.w.jmixw,— .uui fr qfgvzsigmrdgf.gfmigh.xyb,—migjibbyibgcrxwf
mixghzxiw,gzcfixhzxbw,gzwgmigbi yzxiw,gmrwgtxzruwagFmiwigmigjibbyiw
wfryy,gjx.djfruvgV.bgzubgbrwvxz ruvgdzu,gtizxruvgc.xgcxqrfgmrwgtxzru
.uyn,gyrpigfmiguqfgrfwgpixuiyagRgfmrupgfmzfgmigdqwfgtigfmigdzug.cgfmi
d.wfgczrfmg.cgzungzyrsiagMrwgh.xbwgzubgzffrfqbigzyhznwgwqjj.wigzgtiffix
wfzfig.cgfmruvwgfmzug.fmixgdiugzxigz lqzrufibghrfm,gzubgmighryygtigfmi
yzwfgdzugf.gtigbrwzjj.rufibgzwgfmigzviwgxis.ysiagMigmzwgu.gsiufqxigru
fmigjxiwiufagTqfgfm.qvmg .djzxzfrsiyngbrwxivzxbibgu.h,ghmiugmrwgbzn
 .diw,gyzhwgquwqwji fibgtngd.wfghryygfzpigicci f,gzubgdzwfixwg.c
czdryriwgzubgxqyixwghryyg .digf.gmrdgc.xgzbsr ia—

ggggg“M.hgtyrubgfmzfg zuu.fgwiigwixiurfn!”


Zgfxqigcxriubg.cgdzu;gzyd.wfgfmig.uyngcxriubg.cgmqdzugjx.vxiwwagZug.yb
D.xfzyrfn,gwzngxzfmixgzugRdd.xfzyrfn,ghrfmgquhizxribgjzfriu igzubgczrfm
dzpruvgjyzrugfmigrdzvigiuvxzsiugrugdiu’wgt.briw,gfmigV.bg.cghm.dgfmin
zxigtqfgbicz ibgzubgyizuruvgd.uqdiufwagHrfmgmrwgm.wjrfztyigrufiyyi fgmi
idtxz iwg mrybxiu,gtivvzxw,gruwzui,gzubgw m.yzxw,gzubgiufixfzruwgfmi
fm.qvmfg.cgzyy,gzbbruvgf.grfg .dd.uyngw.digtxizbfmgzubgiyivzu iagR
fmrupgfmzfgmigwm.qybgpiijgzg zxzszuwzxng.ugfmigh.xyb’wgmrvmhzn,ghmixi
jmry.w.jmixwg.cgzyyguzfr.uwgdrvmfgjqfgqj,gzubg.ugmrwgwrvugwm.qybgti
jxrufib,g“Iufixfzrudiufgc.xgdzu,gtqfgu.fgc.xgmrwgtizwfagIufixgnigfmzf
mzsigyirwqxigzubgzglqrifgdrub,ghm.gizxuiwfyngwiipgfmigxrvmfgx.zba”gMi
rwgjixmzjwgfmigwzuiwfgdzugzubgmzwgfmigcihiwfg x.f mifwg.cgzungRg mzu i
f.gpu.h;gfmigwzdigniwfixbzngzubgf.d.xx.hag.cgn.xighigmzbgwzqufixibgzub
fzypib,gzubgicci fqzyyngjqfgfmigh.xybgtimrubgqw;gc.xgmighzwgjyibvibgf.
u.gruwfrfqfr.ugrugrf,gcxiit.xu,g_ruviuqqw_agHmr misixghznghigfqxuib,grf
wiidibgfmzfgfmigmizsiuwgzubgfmigizxfmgmzbgdifgf.vifmix,gwru igmi
iumzu ibgfmigtizqfng.cgfmigyzubw zjiagZgtyqi-x.tibgdzu,ghm.wigcrffiwf
x..cgrwgfmig.sixzx mruvgwpnghmr mgxicyi fwgmrwgwixiurfnagRgb.gu.fgwii
m.hgmig zugisixgbri;gUzfqxig zuu.fgwjzxigmrda

Mzsruvgiz mgw.digwmruvyiwg.cgfm.qvmfghiyygbxrib,ghigwzfgzubghmrffyib
fmid,gfxnruvg.qxgpursiw,gzubgzbdrxruvgfmig yizxgniyy.hrwmgvxzrug.cgfmi
jqdjprugjruiagHighzbibgw.gviufyngzubgxisixiufyn,g.xghigjqyyibgf.vifmix
w.gwd..fmyn,gfmzfgfmigcrwmiwg.cgfm.qvmfghixigu.fgw zxibgcx.dgfmi
wfxizd,gu.xgcizxibgzungzuvyixg.ugfmigtzup,gtqfg zdigzubghiufgvxzubyn,
yrpigfmig y.qbwghmr mgcy.zfgfmx.qvmgfmighiwfixugwpn,gzubgfmi
d.fmix-.’-jizxygcy. pwghmr mgw.difrdiwgc.xdgzubgbrww.ysigfmixiagFmixi
high.xpib,gxisrwruvgdnfm.y.vn,gx.qubruvgzgcztyigmixigzubgfmixi,gzub
tqrybruvg zwfyiwgrugfmigzrxgc.xghmr mgizxfmg.ccixibgu.gh.xfmn
c.qubzfr.uagVxizfgY..pix!gVxizfgIoji fix!gf.g .usixwighrfmghm.dghzwgz
UihgIuvyzubgUrvmf’wgIufixfzrudiufagZm!gwq mgbrw .qxwighigmzb,gmixdrf
zubgjmry.w.jmix,gzubgfmig.ybgwiffyixgRgmzsigwj.piug.c,—higfmxii,—rf
iojzubibgzubgxz pibgdngyrffyigm.qwi;gRgwm.qybgu.fgbzxigf.gwzngm.hgdzun
j.qubw’ghirvmfgfmixighzwgzt.sigfmigzfd.wjmixr gjxiwwqxig.ugisixn
 rx qyzxgru m;grfg.jiuibgrfwgwizdwgw.gfmzfgfmingmzbgf.gtig zypibghrfm
dq mgbqyuiwwgfmixizcfixgf.gwf.jgfmig .uwilqiufgyizp;—tqfgRgmzbgiu.qvm
.cgfmzfgprubg.cg.zpqdgzyxizbngjr piba

Fmixighzwg.uig.fmixghrfmghm.dgRgmzbg“w.yrbgwizw.uw,”gy.uvgf.gti
xididtixib,gzfgmrwgm.qwigrugfmigsryyzvi,gzubghm.gy..pibgrugqj.ugdigcx.d
frdigf.gfrdi;gtqfgRgmzbgu.gd.xigc.xgw. rifngfmixia

Fmixigf..,gzwgisixnghmixi,gRgw.difrdiwgioji fibgfmigSrwrf.xghm.guisix
 .diwagFmigSrwmuqgJqxzuzgwznw,g“Fmigm.qwi-m.ybixgrwgf.gxidzrugzf
isiufrbigrugmrwg .qxf-nzxbgzwgy.uvgzwgrfgfzpiwgf.gdrypgzg .h,g.xgy.uvix
rcgmigjyizwiw,gf.gzhzrfgfmigzxxrszyg.cgzgvqiwfa”gRg.cfiugjixc.xdibgfmrw
bqfng.cgm.wjrfzyrfn,ghzrfibgy.uvgiu.qvmgf.gdrypgzghm.yigmixbg.cg .hw,
tqfgbrbgu.fgwiigfmigdzugzjjx.z mruvgcx.dgfmigf.hua


HrufixgZurdzyw

Hmiugfmigj.ubwghixigcrxdyngcx.eiu,gfmingzcc.xbibgu.fg.uynguihgzub
wm.xfixgx.qfiwgf.gdzungj.rufw,gtqfguihgsrihwgcx.dgfmirxgwqxcz iwg.cgfmi
czdryrzxgyzubw zjigzx.qubgfmidagHmiugRg x.wwibgCyruf’wgJ.ub,gzcfixgrf
hzwg .sixibghrfmgwu.h,gfm.qvmgRgmzbg.cfiugjzbbyibgzt.qfgzubgwpzfibg.six
rf,grfghzwgw.gquioji fibynghrbigzubgw.gwfxzuvigfmzfgRg .qybgfmrupg.c
u.fmruvgtqfgTzccru’wgTznagFmigYru .yugmryywgx.wigqjgzx.qubgdigzfgfmi
iofxidrfng.cgzgwu.hngjyzru,grughmr mgRgbrbgu.fgxididtixgf.gmzsigwf..b
tic.xi;gzubgfmigcrwmixdiu,gzfgzugrubifixdruztyigbrwfzu ig.sixgfmigr i,
d.sruvgwy.hyngzt.qfghrfmgfmirxgh.ycrwmgb.vw,gjzwwibgc.xgwizyixwg.x
Iwlqrdzqo,g.xgrugdrwfnghizfmixgy..dibgyrpigcztqy.qwg xizfqxiw,gzubgR
brbgu.fgpu.hghmifmixgfminghixigvrzufwg.xgjnvdriwagRgf..pgfmrwg .qxwi
hmiugRghiufgf.gyi fqxigrugYru .yugrugfmigisiuruv,gfxzsiyyruvgrugu.gx.zb
zubgjzwwruvgu.gm.qwigtifhiiugdng.hugmqfgzubgfmigyi fqxigx..dagRugV..wi
J.ub,ghmr mgyzngrugdnghzn,gzg .y.ung.cgdqwpxzfwgbhiyf,gzubgxzrwibgfmirx
 ztruwgmrvmgzt.sigfmigr i,gfm.qvmgu.uig .qybgtigwiiugztx.zbghmiugR
 x.wwibgrfagHzybiu,gtiruvgyrpigfmigxiwfgqwqzyyngtzxig.cgwu.h,g.xghrfm
.uyngwmzyy.hgzubgrufixxqjfibgbxrcfwg.ugrf,ghzwgdngnzxb,ghmixigRg .qyb
hzypgcxiiynghmiugfmigwu.hghzwguizxyngfh.gciifgbiijg.ugzgyisiygiywihmixi
zubgfmigsryyzvixwghixig .ucruibgf.gfmirxgwfxiifwagFmixi,gczxgcx.dgfmi
sryyzvigwfxiif,gzubgio ijfgzfgsixngy.uvgrufixszyw,gcx.dgfmigkruvyig.c
wyirvm-tiyyw,gRgwyrbgzubgwpzfib,gzwgrugzgszwfgd..wi-nzxbghiyygfx.bbiu,
.sixmquvgtng.zpgh..bwgzubgw.yidugjruiwgtiufgb.hughrfmgwu.hg.xgtxrwfyruv
hrfmgr r yiwa

C.xgw.qubwgrughrufixgurvmfw,gzubg.cfiugrughrufixgbznw,gRgmizxbgfmi
c.xy.xugtqfgdiy.br.qwgu.fig.cgzgm..fruvg.hygrubicrurfiyngczx;gwq mgz
w.qubgzwgfmigcx.eiugizxfmgh.qybgnriybgrcgwfxq pghrfmgzgwqrfztyi
jyi fxqd,gfmigsixng_yruvqzgsixuz qyz_g.cgHzybiugH..b,gzubglqrfi
czdryrzxgf.gdigzfgyzwf,gfm.qvmgRguisixgwzhgfmigtrxbghmryigrfghzwgdzpruv
rfagRgwiyb.dg.jiuibgdngb..xgrugzghrufixgisiuruvghrfm.qfgmizxruvgrf;
_M..gm..gm..,gm..xix,gm..,_gw.qubibgw.u.x.qwyn,gzubgfmigcrxwfgfmxii
wnyyztyiwgz  iufibgw.dihmzfgyrpig_m.hgbixgb._;g.xgw.difrdiwg_m..gm.._
.uynag.uigurvmfgrugfmigtivruuruvg.cghrufix,gtic.xigfmigj.ubgcx.eig.six,
zt.qfguruig.’ y. p,gRghzwgwfzxfyibgtngfmigy.qbgm.upruvg.cgzgv..wi,gzub,
wfijjruvgf.gfmigb..x,gmizxbgfmigw.qubg.cgfmirxghruvwgyrpigzgfidjiwfgru
fmigh..bwgzwgfmingcyihgy.hg.sixgdngm.qwiagFmingjzwwibg.sixgfmigj.ub
f.hzxbgCzrxgMzsiu,gwiidruvyngbifixxibgcx.dgwiffyruvgtngdngyrvmf,gfmirx
 .dd.b.xigm.upruvgzyygfmighmryighrfmgzgxivqyzxgtizfagWqbbiuyngzu
qudrwfzpztyig zf-.hygcx.dgsixnguizxgdi,ghrfmgfmigd.wfgmzxwmgzub
fxidiub.qwgs.r igRgisixgmizxbgcx.dgzungrumztrfzufg.cgfmigh..bw,
xiwj.ubibgzfgxivqyzxgrufixszywgf.gfmigv..wi,gzwgrcgbifixdruibgf.gioj.wi
zubgbrwvxz igfmrwgrufxqbixgcx.dgMqbw.u’wgTzngtngiomrtrfruvgzgvxizfix
 .djzwwgzubgs.yqdig.cgs.r igrugzguzfrsi,gzubg_t..-m.._gmrdg.qfg.c
 .u .xbgm.xre.uagHmzfgb.gn.qgdizugtngzyzxdruvgfmig rfzbiygzfgfmrwgfrdi
.cgurvmfg .uwi xzfibgf.gdi?gB.gn.qgfmrupgRgzdgisixg zqvmfguzjjruvgzf
wq mgzugm.qx,gzubgfmzfgRgmzsigu.fgv.fgyquvwgzubgzgyzxnuogzwghiyygzw
n.qxwiyc?g_T..-m..,gt..-m..,gt..-m..!_gRfghzwg.uig.cgfmigd.wfgfmxryyruv
brw .xbwgRgisixgmizxbagZubgnif,grcgn.qgmzbgzgbrw xrdruzfruvgizx,gfmixi
hixigrugrfgfmigiyidiufwg.cgzg .u .xbgwq mgzwgfmiwigjyzruwguisixgwzhgu.x
mizxba

Rgzyw.gmizxbgfmighm..jruvg.cgfmigr igrugfmigj.ub,gdngvxizfgtib-ciyy.h
rugfmzfgjzxfg.cg .u .xb,gzwgrcgrfghixigxiwfyiwwgrugrfwgtibgzubgh.qyb
czrugfqxug.six,ghixigfx.qtyibghrfmgcyzfqyiu ngzubgmzbgbxizdw;g.xgRghzw
hzpibgtngfmig xz pruvg.cgfmigvx.qubgtngfmigcx.wf,gzwgrcgw.dig.uigmzb
bxrsiugzgfizdgzvzruwfgdngb..x,gzubgrugfmigd.xuruvgh.qybgcrubgzg xz pgru
fmigizxfmgzglqzxfixg.cgzgdryigy.uvgzubgzgfmrxbg.cgzugru mghrbia

W.difrdiwgRgmizxbgfmigc.oiwgzwgfmingxzuvibg.sixgfmigwu.hg xqwf,gru
d..uyrvmfgurvmfw,grugwizx mg.cgzgjzxfxrbvig.xg.fmixgvzdi,gtzxpruv
xzvvibyngzubgbid.urz zyyngyrpigc.xiwfgb.vw,gzwgrcgyzt.xruvghrfmgw.di
zuorifn,g.xgwiipruvgiojxiwwr.u,gwfxqvvyruvgc.xgyrvmfgzubgf.gtigb.vw
.qfxrvmfgzubgxqugcxiiyngrugfmigwfxiifw;gc.xgrcghigfzpigfmigzviwgruf.
.qxgz  .quf,gdzngfmixigu.fgtigzg rsryrezfr.ugv.ruvg.ugzd.uvgtxqfiwgzw
hiyygzwgdiu?gFmingwiidibgf.gdigf.gtigxqbrdiufzy,gtqxx.hruvgdiu,gwfryy
wfzubruvg.ugfmirxgbiciu i,gzhzrfruvgfmirxgfxzuwc.xdzfr.uagW.difrdiwg.ui
 zdiguizxgf.gdnghrub.h,gzffxz fibgtngdngyrvmf,gtzxpibgzgsqyjruig qxwi
zfgdi,gzubgfmiugxifxizfiba

Qwqzyyngfmigxibgwlqrxxiyg(_W rqxqwgMqbw.urqw_)ghzpibgdigrugfmigbzhu,
 .qxwruvg.sixgfmigx..cgzubgqjgzubgb.hugfmigwrbiwg.cgfmigm.qwi,gzwgrc
wiufg.qfg.cgfmigh..bwgc.xgfmrwgjqxj.wiagRugfmig .qxwig.cgfmighrufixgR
fmxihg.qfgmzycgzgtqwmiyg.cgizxwg.cgwhiif- .xu,ghmr mgmzbgu.fgv.fgxrji,
.ugf.gfmigwu.hg xqwfgtngdngb..x,gzubghzwgzdqwibgtnghzf mruvgfmigd.fr.uw
.cgfmigszxr.qwgzurdzywghmr mghixigtzrfibgtngrfagRugfmigfhryrvmfgzubgfmi
urvmfgfmigxzttrfwg zdigxivqyzxyngzubgdzbigzgmizxfngdizyagZyygbzngy.uv
fmigxibgwlqrxxiywg zdigzubghiuf,gzubgzcc.xbibgdigdq mgiufixfzrudiufgtn
fmirxgdzuœqsxiwag.uigh.qybgzjjx.z mgzfgcrxwfghzxryngfmx.qvmgfmi
wmxqt-.zpw,gxquuruvg.sixgfmigwu.hg xqwfgtngcrfwgzubgwfzxfwgyrpigzgyizc
ty.hugtngfmighrub,gu.hgzgcihgjz iwgfmrwghzn,ghrfmgh.ubixcqygwjiibgzub
hzwfig.cgiuixvn,gdzpruvgru .u irsztyigmzwfighrfmgmrwg“fx.ffixw,”gzwgrc
rfghixigc.xgzghzvix,gzubgu.hgzwgdzungjz iwgfmzfghzn,gtqfguisixgviffruv
.ugd.xigfmzugmzycgzgx.bgzfgzgfrdi;gzubgfmiugwqbbiuyngjzqwruvghrfmgz
yqbr x.qwgiojxiwwr.ugzubgzgvxzfqrf.qwgw.dixwif,gzwgrcgzyygfmiginiwgru
fmigqursixwighixigcroibg.ugmrd,—c.xgzyygfmigd.fr.uwg.cgzgwlqrxxiy,gisiu
rugfmigd.wfgw.yrfzxngxi iwwiwg.cgfmigc.xiwf,grdjyngwji fzf.xwgzwgdq m
zwgfm.wig.cgzgbzu ruvgvrxy,—hzwfruvgd.xigfrdigrugbiyzngzub
 rx qdwji fr.ugfmzugh.qybgmzsigwqccr ibgf.ghzypgfmighm.yigbrwfzu i,—R
uisixgwzhg.uighzyp,—zubgfmiugwqbbiuyn,gtic.xign.qg .qybgwzngKz p
X.truw.u,gmigh.qybgtigrugfmigf.jg.cgzgn.quvgjrf m-jrui,ghrubruvgqjgmrw
 y. pgzubg mrbruvgzyygrdzvruzxngwji fzf.xw,gw.yry.lqreruvgzubgfzypruv
f.gzyygfmigqursixwigzfgfmigwzdigfrdi,—c.xgu.gxizw.ugfmzfgRg .qybgisix
bifi f,g.xgmigmrdwiycghzwgzhzxig.c,gRgwqwji fagZfgyiuvfmgmigh.qybgxiz m
fmig .xu,gzubgwiyi fruvgzgwqrfztyigizx,gcxrwpgzt.qfgrugfmigwzdi
qu ixfzrugfxrv.u.difxr zyghzngf.gfmigf.j-d.wfgwfr pg.cgdngh..b-jryi,
tic.xigdnghrub.h,ghmixigmigy..pibgdigrugfmigcz i,gzubgfmixigwrfgc.x
m.qxw,gwqjjynruvgmrdwiycghrfmgzguihgizxgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gurttyruvgzf
crxwfgs.xz r.qwyngzubgfmx.hruvgfmigmzyc-uzpibg .twgzt.qf;gfryygzf
yiuvfmgmigvxihgd.xigbzrufngwfryygzubgjyznibghrfmgmrwgc..b,gfzwfruvg.uyn
fmigruwrbig.cgfmigpixuiy,gzubgfmigizx,ghmr mghzwgmiybgtzyzu ibg.sixgfmi
wfr pgtng.uigjzh,gwyrjjibgcx.dgmrwg zxiyiwwgvxzwjgzubgciyygf.gfmi
vx.qub,ghmiugmigh.qybgy..pg.sixgzfgrfghrfmgzgyqbr x.qwgiojxiwwr.ug.c
qu ixfzrufn,gzwgrcgwqwji fruvgfmzfgrfgmzbgyrci,ghrfmgzgdrubgu.fgdzbigqj
hmifmixgf.gvifgrfgzvzru,g.xgzguihg.ui,g.xgtig.cc;gu.hgfmrupruvg.cg .xu,
fmiugyrwfiuruvgf.gmizxghmzfghzwgrugfmighrubagW.gfmigyrffyigrdjqbiuf
ciyy.hgh.qybghzwfigdzungzugizxgrugzgc.xiu..u;gfryygzfgyzwf,gwireruv
w.digy.uvixgzubgjyqdjixg.ui,g .uwrbixztyngtrvvixgfmzugmrdwiyc,gzub
wprycqyyngtzyzu ruvgrf,gmigh.qybgwifg.qfghrfmgrfgf.gfmigh..bw,gyrpigz
frvixghrfmgzgtqcczy.,gtngfmigwzdigerv-ezvg .qxwigzubgcxilqiufgjzqwiw,
w xzf mruvgzy.uvghrfmgrfgzwgrcgrfghixigf..gmizsngc.xgmrdgzubgczyyruv
zyygfmighmryi,gdzpruvgrfwgczyygzgbrzv.uzygtifhiiugzgjixjiubr qyzxgzub
m.xre.ufzy,gtiruvgbifixdruibgf.gjqfgrfgfmx.qvmgzfgzungxzfi;—z
wruvqyzxyngcxrs.y.qwgzubghmrdwr zygciyy.h;—zubgw.gmigh.qybgvifg.ccghrfm
rfgf.ghmixigmigyrsib,gjixmzjwg zxxngrfgf.gfmigf.jg.cgzgjruigfxiigc.xfn
.xgcrcfngx.bwgbrwfzuf,gzubgRgh.qybgzcfixhzxbwgcrubgfmig .twgwfxihu
zt.qfgfmigh..bwgrugszxr.qwgbrxi fr.uwa

Zfgyiuvfmgfmigkznwgzxxrsi,ghm.wigbrw .xbzufgw xizdwghixigmizxbgy.uv
tic.xi,gzwgfminghixighzxryngdzpruvgfmirxgzjjx.z mgzugirvmfmg.cgzgdryi
.cc,gzubgrugzgwfizyfmngzubgwuizpruvgdzuuixgfmingcyrfgcx.dgfxiigf.gfxii,
uizxixgzubguizxix,gzubgjr pgqjgfmigpixuiywghmr mgfmigwlqrxxiywgmzsi
bx.jjibagFmiu,gwrffruvg.ugzgjrf m-jruigt.qvm,gfmingzffidjfgf.gwhzyy.h
rugfmirxgmzwfigzgpixuiyghmr mgrwgf..gtrvgc.xgfmirxgfmx.zfwgzubg m.piw
fmid;gzubgzcfixgvxizfgyzt.xgfmingbrwv.xvigrf,gzubgwjiubgzugm.qxgrugfmi
iubizs.xgf.g xz pgrfgtngxijizfibgty.hwghrfmgfmirxgtryywagFminghixi
dzurciwfyngfmrisiw,gzubgRgmzbgu.fgdq mgxiwji fgc.xgfmid;gtqfgfmi
wlqrxxiyw,gfm.qvmgzfgcrxwfgwmn,ghiufgf.gh.xpgzwgrcgfminghixigfzpruv
hmzfghzwgfmirxg.hua

Dizuhmryigzyw.g zdigfmig mr pzbiiwgrugcy. pw,ghmr m,gjr pruvgqjgfmi
 xqdtwgfmigwlqrxxiywgmzbgbx.jjib,gcyihgf.gfmiguizxiwfgfhrv,gzub,
jyz ruvgfmidgqubixgfmirxg yzhw,gmzddixibgzhzngzfgfmidghrfmgfmirxgyrffyi
tryyw,gzwgrcgrfghixigzugruwi fgrugfmigtzxp,gfryygfminghixigwqccr riufyn
xibq ibgc.xgfmirxgwyiubixgfmx.zfwagZgyrffyigcy. pg.cgfmiwigfrf-dr i
 zdigbzryngf.gjr pgzgbruuixg.qfg.cgdngh..b-jryi,g.xgfmig xqdtwgzfgdn
b..x,ghrfmgczrufgcyrffruvgyrwjruvgu.fiw,gyrpigfmigfrupyruvg.cgr r yiw
rugfmigvxzww,g.xgiywighrfmgwjxrvmfyng_bzngbzngbzn_,g.xgd.xigxzxiyn,gru
wjxruv-yrpigbznw,gzghrxngwqddixng_jmi-ti_gcx.dgfmigh..b-wrbiagFminghixi
w.gczdryrzxgfmzfgzfgyiuvfmg.uigzyrvmfibg.ugzugzxdcqyg.cgh..bghmr mgR
hzwg zxxnruvgru,gzubgji pibgzfgfmigwfr pwghrfm.qfgcizxagRg.u igmzbgz
wjzxx.hgzyrvmfgqj.ugdngwm.qybixgc.xgzgd.diufghmryigRghzwgm.iruvgrugz
sryyzvigvzxbiu,gzubgRgciyfgfmzfgRghzwgd.xigbrwfruvqrwmibgtngfmzf
 rx qdwfzu igfmzugRgwm.qybgmzsigtiiugtngzungijzqyifgRg .qybgmzsigh.xua
Fmigwlqrxxiywgzyw.gvxihgzfgyzwfgf.gtiglqrfigczdryrzx,gzubg.  zwr.uzyyn
wfijjibgqj.ugdngwm.i,ghmiugfmzfghzwgfmiguizxiwfghzna

Hmiugfmigvx.qubghzwgu.fgnifglqrfig .sixib,gzubgzvzruguizxgfmigiubg.c
hrufix,ghmiugfmigwu.hghzwgdiyfibg.ugdngw.qfmgmryy-wrbigzubgzt.qfgdn
h..b-jryi,gfmigjzxfxrbviwg zdig.qfg.cgfmigh..bwgd.xuruvgzubgisiuruvgf.
ciibgfmixiagHmr misixgwrbign.qghzypgrugfmigh..bwgfmigjzxfxrbvigtqxwfw
zhzng.ughmrxxruvghruvw,gkzxxruvgfmigwu.hgcx.dgfmigbxngyizsiwgzubgfhrvw
.ugmrvm,ghmr mg .diwgwrcfruvgb.hugrugfmigwqu-tizdwgyrpigv.ybiugbqwf;
c.xgfmrwgtxzsigtrxbgrwgu.fgf.gtigw zxibgtnghrufixagRfgrwgcxilqiufyn
 .sixibgqjgtngbxrcfw,gzub,grfgrwgwzrb,g“w.difrdiwgjyquviwgcx.dg.ughruv
ruf.gfmigw.cfgwu.h,ghmixigrfgxidzruwg .u izyibgc.xgzgbzng.xgfh.a”gR
qwibgf.gwfzxfgfmidgrugfmig.jiugyzubgzyw.,ghmixigfmingmzbg .dig.qfg.c
fmigh..bwgzfgwquwifgf.g“tqb”gfmighrybgzjjyi-fxiiwagFminghryyg .di
xivqyzxyngisixngisiuruvgf.gjzxfr qyzxgfxiiw,ghmixigfmig quuruv
wj.xfwdzugyriwgrughzrfgc.xgfmid,gzubgfmigbrwfzufg.x mzxbwguiofgfmi
h..bwgwqccixgfmqwgu.fgzgyrffyiagRgzdgvyzbgfmzfgfmigjzxfxrbvigvifwgcib,
zfgzungxzfiagRfgrwgUzfqxi’wg.hugtrxbghmr mgyrsiwg.ugtqbwgzub
brif-bxrupa

Rugbzxpghrufixgd.xuruvw,g.xgrugwm.xfghrufixgzcfixu..uw,gRgw.difrdiw
mizxbgzgjz pg.cgm.qubwgfmxizbruvgzyygfmigh..bwghrfmgm.qubruvg xngzub
niyj,gquztyigf.gxiwrwfgfmigruwfru fg.cgfmig mzwi,gzubgfmigu.fig.cgfmi
mqufruvgm.xugzfgrufixszyw,gjx.sruvgfmzfgdzughzwgrugfmigxizxagFmigh..bw
xruvgzvzru,gzubgnifgu.gc.ogtqxwfwgc.xfmg.ugf.gfmig.jiugyisiyg.cgfmi
j.ub,gu.xgc.yy.hruvgjz pgjqxwqruvgfmirxgZ fæ.uagZubgjixmzjwgzfgisiuruv
Rgwiigfmigmqufixwgxifqxuruvghrfmgzgwruvyigtxqwmgfxzryruvgcx.dgfmirx
wyirvmgc.xgzgfx.jmn,gwiipruvgfmirxgruuagFmingfiyygdigfmzfgrcgfmigc.o
h.qybgxidzrugrugfmigt.w.dg.cgfmigcx.eiugizxfmgmigh.qybgtigwzci,g.xgrc
migh.qybgxqugrugzgwfxzrvmfgyruigzhzngu.gc.o-m.qubg .qybg.sixfzpigmrd;
tqf,gmzsruvgyicfgmrwgjqxwqixwgczxgtimrub,gmigwf.jwgf.gxiwfgzubgyrwfiu
fryygfming .digqj,gzubghmiugmigxquwgmig rx yiwgx.qubgf.gmrwg.ybgmzqufw,
hmixigfmigmqufixwgzhzrfgmrdagW.difrdiw,gm.hisix,gmighryygxqugqj.ugz
hzyygdzungx.bw,gzubgfmiugyizjg.ccgczxgf.g.uigwrbi,gzubgmigzjjizxwgf.
pu.hgfmzfghzfixghryygu.fgxifzrugmrwgw iufagZgmqufixgf.ybgdigfmzfgmi
.u igwzhgzgc.ogjqxwqibgtngm.qubwgtqxwfg.qfg.ugf.gHzybiughmiugfmigr i
hzwg .sixibghrfmgwmzyy.hgjqbbyiw,gxqugjzxfghzngz x.ww,gzubgfmiugxifqxu
f.gfmigwzdigwm.xiagIxigy.uvgfmigm.qubwgzxxrsib,gtqfgmixigfmingy.wfgfmi
w iufagW.difrdiwgzgjz pgmqufruvgtngfmidwiysiwgh.qybgjzwwgdngb..x,gzub
 rx yigx.qubgdngm.qwi,gzubgniyjgzubgm.qubghrfm.qfgxivzxbruvgdi,gzwgrc
zccyr fibgtngzgwji riwg.cgdzbuiww,gw.gfmzfgu.fmruvg .qybgbrsixfgfmid
cx.dgfmigjqxwqrfagFmqwgfming rx yigqufrygfmingczyygqj.ugfmigxi iuf
fxzryg.cgzgc.o,gc.xgzghrwigm.qubghryygc.xwzpigisixngfmruvgiywigc.x
fmrwag.uigbzngzgdzug zdigf.gdngmqfgcx.dgYioruvf.ugf.grulqrxigzcfixgmrw
m.qubgfmzfgdzbigzgyzxvigfxz p,gzubgmzbgtiiugmqufruvgc.xgzghiipgtn
mrdwiycagTqfgRgcizxgfmzfgmighzwgu.fgfmighrwixgc.xgzyygRgf.ybgmrd,gc.x
isixngfrdigRgzffidjfibgf.gzuwhixgmrwglqiwfr.uwgmigrufixxqjfibgdigtn
zwpruv,g“Hmzfgb.gn.qgb.gmixi?”gMigmzbgy.wfgzgb.v,gtqfgc.qubgzgdzua

.uig.ybgmqufixghm.gmzwgzgbxngf.uvqi,ghm.gqwibgf.g .digf.gtzfmigru
Hzybiug.u igisixngnizxghmiugfmighzfixghzwghzxdiwf,gzubgzfgwq mgfrdiw
y..pibgrugqj.ugdi,gf.ybgdigfmzfgdzungnizxwgzv.gmigf..pgmrwgvqug.ui
zcfixu..ugzubghiufg.qfgc.xgzg xqrwigrugHzybiugH..b;gzubgzwgmighzypib
fmigHznyzubgx.zbgmigmizxbgfmig xng.cgm.qubwgzjjx.z mruv,gzubgixigy.uvgz
c.ogyizjibgfmighzyygruf.gfmigx.zb,gzubgzwglqr pgzwgfm.qvmfgyizjibgfmi
.fmixghzyyg.qfg.cgfmigx.zb,gzubgmrwgwhrcfgtqyyifgmzbgu.fgf.q mibgmrda
W.dighzngtimrubg zdigzug.ybgm.qubgzubgmixgfmxiigjqjwgrugcqyygjqxwqrf,
mqufruvg.ugfmirxg.hugz  .quf,gzubgbrwzjjizxibgzvzrugrugfmigh..bwagYzfi
rugfmigzcfixu..u,gzwgmighzwgxiwfruvgrugfmigfmr pgh..bwgw.qfmg.cgHzybiu,
migmizxbgfmigs.r ig.cgfmigm.qubwgczxg.sixgf.hzxbgCzrxgMzsiugwfryy
jqxwqruvgfmigc.o;gzubg.ugfming zdi,gfmirxgm.qubruvg xnghmr mgdzbigzyy
fmigh..bwgxruvgw.qubruvguizxixgzubguizxix,gu.hgcx.dgHiyy-Dizb.h,gu.h
cx.dgfmigTzpixgCzxdagC.xgzgy.uvgfrdigmigwf..bgwfryygzubgyrwfiuibgf.
fmirxgdqwr ,gw.gwhiifgf.gzgmqufix’wgizx,ghmiugwqbbiuyngfmigc.o
zjjizxib,gfmxizbruvgfmigw.yidugzrwyiwghrfmgzugizwng .qxwruvgjz i,ghm.wi
w.qubghzwg .u izyibgtngzgwndjzfmifr gxqwfyig.cgfmigyizsiw,gwhrcfgzub
wfryy,gpiijruvgfmigvx.qub,gyizsruvgmrwgjqxwqixwgczxgtimrub;gzub,
yizjruvgqj.ugzgx. pgzdrbgfmigh..bw,gmigwzfgixi fgzubgyrwfiuruv,ghrfm
mrwgtz pgf.gfmigmqufixagC.xgzgd.diufg .djzwwr.ugxiwfxzruibgfmigyzffix’w
zxd;gtqfgfmzfghzwgzgwm.xf-yrsibgd..b,gzubgzwglqr pgzwgfm.qvmfg zu
c.yy.hgfm.qvmfgmrwgjri ighzwgyisiyyib,gzubg_hmzuv!_—fmigc.ogx.yyruv
.sixgfmigx. pgyzngbizbg.ugfmigvx.qubagFmigmqufixgwfryygpijfgmrwgjyz i
zubgyrwfiuibgf.gfmigm.qubwagWfryyg.ugfming zdi,gzubgu.hgfmiguizxgh..bw
xiw.qubibgfmx.qvmgzyygfmirxgzrwyiwghrfmgfmirxgbid.urz g xnagZfgyiuvfm
fmig.ybgm.qubgtqxwfgruf.gsrihghrfmgdqeeyigf.gfmigvx.qub,gzubgwuzjjruv
fmigzrxgzwgrcgj.wwiwwib,gzubgxzugbrxi fyngf.gfmigx. p;gtqfgwjnruvgfmi
bizbgc.ogwmigwqbbiuyng izwibgmixgm.qubruvgzwgrcgwfxq pgbqdtghrfm
zdzeidiuf,gzubghzypibgx.qubgzubgx.qubgmrdgrugwryiu i;gzubg.uigtng.ui
mixgjqjwgzxxrsib,gzub,gyrpigfmirxgd.fmix,ghixigw.tixibgruf.gwryiu igtn
fmigdnwfixnagFmiugfmigmqufixg zdigc.xhzxbgzubgwf..bgrugfmirxgdrbwf,gzub
fmigdnwfixnghzwgw.ysibagFminghzrfibgrugwryiu ighmryigmigwpruuibgfmi
c.o,gfmiugc.yy.hibgfmigtxqwmgzghmryi,gzubgzfgyiuvfmgfqxuibg.ccgruf.gfmi
h..bwgzvzruagFmzfgisiuruvgzgHiwf.ugWlqrxig zdigf.gfmig .u .xbgmqufix’w
 .ffzvigf.grulqrxigc.xgmrwgm.qubw,gzubgf.ybgm.hgc.xgzghiipgfmingmzb
tiiugmqufruvg.ugfmirxg.hugz  .qufgcx.dgHiwf.ugh..bwagFmig .u .xbgmqufix
f.ybgmrdghmzfgmigpuihgzubg.ccixibgmrdgfmigwpru;gtqfgfmig.fmixgbi yruib
rfgzubgbijzxfibagMigbrbgu.fgcrubgmrwgm.qubwgfmzfgurvmf,gtqfgfmiguiof
bzngyizxuibgfmzfgfmingmzbg x.wwibgfmigxrsixgzubgjqfgqjgzfgzgczxd-m.qwi
c.xgfmigurvmf,ghmiu i,gmzsruvgtiiughiyygcib,gfmingf..pgfmirxgbijzxfqxi
izxyngrugfmigd.xuruva

Fmigmqufixghm.gf.ybgdigfmrwg .qybgxididtixg.uigWzdgUqffruv,ghm.gqwibgf.
mqufgtizxwg.ugCzrxgMzsiugYibviw,gzubgio mzuvigfmirxgwpruwgc.xgxqdgru
 .u .xbgsryyzvi;ghm.gf.ybgmrd,gisiu,gfmzfgmigmzbgwiiugzgd..wigfmixia
Uqffruvgmzbgzgczd.qwgc.o-m.qubguzdibgTqxv.nui,—migjx.u.qu ibgrf
Tqvrui,—hmr mgdngruc.xdzufgqwibgf.gt.xx.hagRugfmig“HzwfgT..p”g.cgzug.yb
fxzbixg.cgfmrwgf.hu,ghm.ghzwgzyw.gzg zjfzru,gf.hu- yixp,gzub
xijxiwiufzfrsi,gRgcrubgfmigc.yy.hruvgiufxnagKzuag18fm,g1742–3,g“K.mu
Diysiug xagtng1gVxingC.og0—2—3;”gfmingzxigu.fgu.hgc.qubgmixi;gzubgru
mrwgyibvix,gCitag7fm,g1743,gMieiprzmgWfxzff.ugmzwg xibrfg“tng½gzg zff
wprug0—1—4½;”g.cg .qxwi,gzghryb- zf,gc.xgWfxzff.ughzwgzgwixvizufgrugfmi
.ybgCxiu mghzx,gzubgh.qybgu.fgmzsigv.fg xibrfgc.xgmqufruvgyiwwgu.tyi
vzdiag xibrfgrwgvrsiugc.xgbiixgwpruwgzyw.,gzubgfminghixigbzryngw.yba
.uigdzugwfryygjxiwixsiwgfmigm.xuwg.cgfmigyzwfgbiixgfmzfghzwgpryyibgru
fmrwgsr rurfn,gzubgzu.fmixgmzwgf.ybgdigfmigjzxfr qyzxwg.cgfmigmqufgru
hmr mgmrwgqu yighzwgiuvzvibagFmigmqufixwghixigc.xdixyngzguqdix.qwgzub
dixxng xihgmixiagRgxididtixghiyyg.uigvzqufgUrdx.bghm.gh.qybg zf mgqjgz
yizcgtngfmigx.zb-wrbigzubgjyzngzgwfxzrug.ugrfghrybixgzubgd.xi
diy.br.qw,grcgdngdid.xngwixsiwgdi,gfmzugzungmqufruv-m.xua

Zfgdrburvmf,ghmiugfmixighzwgzgd..u,gRgw.difrdiwgdifghrfmgm.qubwgrugdn
jzfmgjx.hyruvgzt.qfgfmigh..bw,ghmr mgh.qybgwpqypg.qfg.cgdnghzn,gzwgrc
zcxzrb,gzubgwfzubgwryiufgzdrbgfmigtqwmiwgfryygRgmzbgjzwwiba

Wlqrxxiywgzubghrybgdr igbrwjqfibgc.xgdngwf.xig.cguqfwagFmixighixi
w .xiwg.cgjrf m-jruiwgzx.qubgdngm.qwi,gcx.dg.uigf.gc.qxgru miwgru
brzdifix,ghmr mgmzbgtiiugvuzhibgtngdr igfmigjxisr.qwghrufix,—z
U.xhivrzughrufixgc.xgfmid,gc.xgfmigwu.hgyzngy.uvgzubgbiij,gzubgfmin
hixig.tyrvibgf.gdrogzgyzxvigjx.j.xfr.ug.cgjruigtzxpghrfmgfmirxg.fmix
brifagFmiwigfxiiwghixigzyrsigzubgzjjzxiufyngcy.qxrwmruvgzfgdrb-wqddix,
zubgdzung.cgfmidgmzbgvx.hugzgc..f,gfm.qvmg .djyifiyngvrxbyib;gtqfgzcfix
zu.fmixghrufixgwq mghixighrfm.qfgio ijfr.ugbizbagRfgrwgxidzxpztyigfmzf
zgwruvyigd.qwigwm.qybgfmqwgtigzyy.hibgzghm.yigjruigfxiigc.xgrfwgbruuix,
vuzhruvgx.qubgruwfizbg.cgqjgzubgb.hugrf;gtqfgjixmzjwgrfgrwgui iwwzxngru
.xbixgf.gfmrugfmiwigfxiiw,ghmr mgzxigh.ufgf.gvx.hgqjgbiuwiyna

Fmigmzxiwg(_YijqwgZdixr zuqw_)ghixigsixngczdryrzxag.uigmzbgmixgc.xd
qubixgdngm.qwigzyyghrufix,gwijzxzfibgcx.dgdig.uyngtngfmigcy..xruv,gzub
wmigwfzxfyibgdigiz mgd.xuruvgtngmixgmzwfngbijzxfqxighmiugRgtivzugf.
wfrx,—fmqdj,gfmqdj,gfmqdj,gwfxrpruvgmixgmizbgzvzruwfgfmigcy..xgfrdtixw
rugmixgmqxxnagFmingqwibgf.g .digx.qubgdngb..xgzfgbqwpgf.gurttyigfmi
j.fzf.gjzxruvwghmr mgRgmzbgfmx.hug.qf,gzubghixigw.guizxyngfmig .y.xg.c
fmigvx.qubgfmzfgfming .qybgmzxbyngtigbrwfruvqrwmibghmiugwfryya
W.difrdiwgrugfmigfhryrvmfgRgzyfixuzfiyngy.wfgzubgxi .sixibgwrvmfg.cg.ui
wrffruvgd.fr.uyiwwgqubixgdnghrub.hagHmiugRg.jiuibgdngb..xgrugfmi
isiuruv,g.ccgfmingh.qybgv.ghrfmgzgwlqizpgzubgzgt.qu iagUizxgzfgmzub
fming.uyngio rfibgdngjrfnag.uigisiuruvg.uigwzfgtngdngb..xgfh.gjz iw
cx.dgdi,gzfgcrxwfgfxidtyruvghrfmgcizx,gnifgquhryyruvgf.gd.si;gzgj..x
hiigfmruv,gyizugzubgt.un,ghrfmgxzvvibgizxwgzubgwmzxjgu.wi,gw zufgfzry
zubgwyiubixgjzhwagRfgy..pibgzwgrcgUzfqxigu.gy.uvixg .ufzruibgfmigtxiib
.cgu.tyixgty..bw,gtqfgwf..bg.ugmixgyzwfgf.iwagRfwgyzxviginiwgzjjizxib
n.quvgzubgqumizyfmn,gzyd.wfgbx.jwr zyagRgf..pgzgwfij,gzubgy.,gzhzngrf
w qbghrfmgzugiyzwfr gwjxruvg.sixgfmigwu.hg xqwf,gwfxzrvmfiuruvgrfwgt.bn
zubgrfwgyrdtwgruf.gvxz icqygyiuvfm,gzubgw..ugjqfgfmigc.xiwfgtifhiiugdi
zubgrfwiyc,—fmighrybgcxiigsiurw.u,gzwwixfruvgrfwgsrv.xgzubgfmigbrvurfn
.cgUzfqxiagU.fghrfm.qfgxizw.ughzwgrfwgwyiubixuiwwagWq mgfmiughzwgrfw
uzfqxiag(_Yijqw_,g_yisrjiw_,gyrvmf-c..f,gw.digfmrupa)

Hmzfgrwgzg .qufxnghrfm.qfgxzttrfwgzubgjzxfxrbviw?gFmingzxigzd.uvgfmi
d.wfgwrdjyigzubgrubrviu.qwgzurdzygjx.bq fw;gzu riufgzubgsiuixztyi
czdryriwgpu.hugf.gzufrlqrfngzwgf.gd.bixugfrdiw;g.cgfmigsixngmqigzub
wqtwfzu ig.cgUzfqxi,guizxiwfgzyyribgf.gyizsiwgzubgf.gfmigvx.qub,—zubgf.
.uigzu.fmix;grfgrwgirfmixghruvibg.xgrfgrwgyivvibagRfgrwgmzxbyngzwgrc
n.qgmzbgwiiugzghrybg xizfqxighmiugzgxzttrfg.xgzgjzxfxrbvigtqxwfwgzhzn,
.uyngzguzfqxzyg.ui,gzwgdq mgf.gtigioji fibgzwgxqwfyruvgyizsiwagFmi
jzxfxrbvigzubgfmigxzttrfgzxigwfryygwqxigf.gfmxrsi,gyrpigfxqiguzfrsiwg.c
fmigw.ry,ghmzfisixgxis.yqfr.uwg.  qxagRcgfmigc.xiwfgrwg qfg.cc,gfmi
wjx.qfwgzubgtqwmiwghmr mgwjxruvgqjgzcc.xbgfmidg .u izydiuf,gzubgfmin
ti .digd.xiguqdix.qwgfmzugisixagFmzfgdqwfgtigzgj..xg .qufxngrubiibgfmzf
b.iwgu.fgwqjj.xfgzgmzxiag.qxgh..bwgfiidghrfmgfmidgt.fm,gzubgzx.qub
isixngwhzdjgdzngtigwiiugfmigjzxfxrbvig.xgxzttrfghzyp,gtiwifghrfmgfhrvvn
ciu iwgzubgm.xwi-mzrxgwuzxiw,ghmr mgw.dig .h-t.ngfiubwa


FmigJ.ubgrugHrufix

ZcfixgzgwfryyghrufixgurvmfgRgzh.pighrfmgfmigrdjxiwwr.ugfmzfgw.di
lqiwfr.ugmzbgtiiugjqfgf.gdi,ghmr mgRgmzbgtiiugiubizs.xruvgrugszrugf.
zuwhixgrugdngwyiij,gzwghmzf—m.h—hmiu—hmixi?gTqfgfmixighzwgbzhuruv
Uzfqxi,grughm.dgzyyg xizfqxiwgyrsi,gy..pruvgrugzfgdngtx.zbghrub.hwghrfm
wixiuigzubgwzfrwcribgcz i,gzubgu.glqiwfr.ug.ug_mix_gyrjwagRgzh.pigf.gzu
zuwhixibglqiwfr.u,gf.gUzfqxigzubgbznyrvmfagFmigwu.hgynruvgbiijg.ugfmi
izxfmgb.ffibghrfmgn.quvgjruiw,gzubgfmigsixngwy.jig.cgfmigmryyg.ughmr m
dngm.qwigrwgjyz ib,gwiidibgf.gwzn,gC.xhzxb!gUzfqxigjqfwgu.glqiwfr.ugzub
zuwhixwgu.uighmr mghigd.xfzywgzwpagWmigmzwgy.uvgzv.gfzpiugmix
xiw.yqfr.uag“.gJxru i,g.qxginiwg .ufidjyzfighrfmgzbdrxzfr.ugzub
fxzuwdrfgf.gfmigw.qygfmigh.ubixcqygzubgszxribgwji fz yig.cgfmrw
qursixwiagFmigurvmfgsirywghrfm.qfgb.qtfgzgjzxfg.cgfmrwgvy.xr.qw
 xizfr.u;gtqfgbzng .diwgf.gxisizygf.gqwgfmrwgvxizfgh.xp,ghmr mgiofiubw
cx.dgizxfmgisiugruf.gfmigjyzruwg.cgfmigifmixa”

Fmiugf.gdngd.xuruvgh.xpagCrxwfgRgfzpigzugzoigzubgjzrygzubgv.grugwizx m
.cghzfix,grcgfmzfgtigu.fgzgbxizdagZcfixgzg .ybgzubgwu.hngurvmfgrf
uiibibgzgbrsruruvgx.bgf.gcrubgrfagIsixnghrufixgfmigyrlqrbgzubgfxidtyruv
wqxcz ig.cgfmigj.ub,ghmr mghzwgw.gwiuwrfrsigf.gisixngtxizfm,gzub
xicyi fibgisixngyrvmfgzubgwmzb.h,gti .diwgw.yrbgf.gfmigbijfmg.cgzgc..f
.xgzgc..fgzubgzgmzyc,gw.gfmzfgrfghryygwqjj.xfgfmigmizsriwfgfizdw,gzub
jix mzu igfmigwu.hg .sixwgrfgf.gzugilqzygbijfm,gzubgrfgrwgu.fgf.gti
brwfruvqrwmibgcx.dgzungyisiygcriybagYrpigfmigdzxd.fwgrugfmigwqxx.qubruv
mryyw,grfg y.wiwgrfwgini-yrbwgzubgti .diwgb.xdzufgc.xgfmxiigd.ufmwg.x
d.xiagWfzubruvg.ugfmigwu.h- .sixibgjyzru,gzwgrcgrugzgjzwfqxigzdrbgfmi
mryyw,gRg qfgdnghzngcrxwfgfmx.qvmgzgc..fg.cgwu.h,gzubgfmiugzgc..fg.c
r i,gzubg.jiugzghrub.hgqubixgdngciif,ghmixi,gpuiiyruvgf.gbxrup,gRgy..p
b.hugruf.gfmiglqrifgjzxy.xg.cgfmigcrwmiw,gjixszbibgtngzgw.cfiuibgyrvmf
zwgfmx.qvmgzghrub.hg.cgvx.qubgvyzww,ghrfmgrfwgtxrvmfgwzubibgcy..xgfmi
wzdigzwgrugwqddix;gfmixigzgjixiuurzyghzsiyiwwgwixiurfngxirvuwgzwgrugfmi
zdtixgfhryrvmfgwpn,g .xxiwj.ubruvgf.gfmig ..ygzubgisiugfidjixzdiufg.c
fmigrumztrfzufwagMizsiugrwgqubixg.qxgciifgzwghiyygzwg.sixg.qxgmizbwa

Izxyngrugfmigd.xuruv,ghmryigzyygfmruvwgzxig xrwjghrfmgcx.wf,gdiug .di
hrfmgcrwmruvgxiiywgzubgwyiubixgyqu m,gzubgyifgb.hugfmirxgcruigyruiw
fmx.qvmgfmigwu.hngcriybgf.gfzpigjr pixiygzubgjix m;ghrybgdiu,ghm.
ruwfru frsiyngc.yy.hg.fmixgczwmr.uwgzubgfxqwfg.fmixgzqfm.xrfriwgfmzu
fmirxgf.huwdiu,gzubgtngfmirxgv.ruvwgzubg .druvwgwfrf mgf.huwgf.vifmix
rugjzxfwghmixigiywigfmingh.qybgtigxrjjibagFmingwrfgzubgizfgfmirx
yqu mi.ugrugwf.qfgcizx-uzqvmfwg.ugfmigbxng.zpgyizsiwg.ugfmigwm.xi,gzw
hrwigruguzfqxzygy.xigzwgfmig rfreiugrwgrugzxfrcr rzyagFminguisix
 .uwqyfibghrfmgt..pw,gzubgpu.hgzubg zugfiyygdq mgyiwwgfmzugfmingmzsi
b.uiagFmigfmruvwghmr mgfmingjxz frwigzxigwzrbgu.fgnifgf.gtigpu.huagMixi
rwg.uigcrwmruvgc.xgjr pixiyghrfmgvx.hugjix mgc.xgtzrfagN.qgy..pgruf.
mrwgjzryghrfmgh.ubixgzwgruf.gzgwqddixgj.ub,gzwgrcgmigpijfgwqddixgy. pib
qjgzfgm.di,g.xgpuihghmixigwmigmzbgxifxizfibagM.h,gjxzn,gbrbgmigvif
fmiwigrugdrb-hrufix?g.,gmigv.fgh.xdwg.qfg.cgx.ffiugy.vwgwru igfmi
vx.qubgcx.ei,gzubgw.gmig zqvmfgfmidagMrwgyrcigrfwiycgjzwwiwgbiijixgru
Uzfqxigfmzugfmigwfqbriwg.cgfmiguzfqxzyrwfgjiuifxzfi;gmrdwiycgzgwqtki f
c.xgfmiguzfqxzyrwfagFmigyzffixgxzrwiwgfmigd.wwgzubgtzxpgviufynghrfmgmrw
purcigrugwizx mg.cgruwi fw;gfmigc.xdixgyznwg.jiugy.vwgf.gfmirxg .xi
hrfmgmrwgzoi,gzubgd.wwgzubgtzxpgcyngczxgzubghrbiagMigvifwgmrwgyrsruvgtn
tzxpruvgfxiiwagWq mgzgdzugmzwgw.digxrvmfgf.gcrwm,gzubgRgy.sigf.gwii
Uzfqxig zxxribg.qfgrugmrdagFmigjix mgwhzyy.hwgfmigvxqt-h.xd,gfmi
jr pixiygwhzyy.hwgfmigjix m,gzubgfmigcrwmix-dzugwhzyy.hwgfmigjr pixiy;
zubgw.gzyygfmig mrupwgrugfmigw zyig.cgtiruvgzxigcryyiba

HmiugRgwfx.yyibgzx.qubgfmigj.ubgrugdrwfnghizfmixgRghzwgw.difrdiwgzdqwib
tngfmigjxrdrfrsigd.bighmr mgw.digxqbixgcrwmixdzugmzbgzb.jfibagMigh.qyb
jixmzjwgmzsigjyz ibgzybixgtxzu miwg.sixgfmiguzxx.hgm.yiwgrugfmigr i,
hmr mghixigc.qxg.xgcrsigx.bwgzjzxfgzubgzugilqzygbrwfzu igcx.dgfmi
wm.xi,gzubgmzsruvgczwfiuibgfmigiubg.cgfmigyruigf.gzgwfr pgf.gjxisiuf
rfwgtiruvgjqyyibgfmx.qvm,gmzsigjzwwibgfmigwyz pgyruig.sixgzgfhrvg.cgfmi
zybix,gzgc..fg.xgd.xigzt.sigfmigr i,gzubgfribgzgbxng.zpgyizcgf.grf,
hmr m,gtiruvgjqyyibgb.hu,gh.qybgwm.hghmiugmigmzbgzgtrfiagFmiwigzybixw
y..dibgfmx.qvmgfmigdrwfgzfgxivqyzxgrufixszywgzwgn.qghzypibgmzycghzn
x.qubgfmigj.uba

Zm,gfmigjr pixiyg.cgHzybiu!ghmiugRgwiigfmidgynruvg.ugfmigr i,g.xgrugfmi
hiyyghmr mgfmigcrwmixdzug qfwgrugfmigr i,gdzpruvgzgyrffyigm.yigf.gzbdrf
fmighzfix,gRgzdgzyhznwgwqxjxrwibgtngfmirxgxzxigtizqfn,gzwgrcgfminghixi
cztqy.qwgcrwmiw,gfmingzxigw.gc.xirvugf.gfmigwfxiifw,gisiugf.gfmigh..bw,
c.xirvugzwgZxztrzgf.g.qxg .u .xbgyrciagFmingj.wwiwwgzglqrfigbzeeyruv
zubgfxzuw iubiufgtizqfnghmr mgwijzxzfiwgfmidgtngzghrbigrufixszygcx.d
fmig zbzsix.qwg .bgzubgmzbb. pghm.wigczdigrwgfxqdjifibgrug.qxgwfxiifwa
Fmingzxigu.fgvxiiugyrpigfmigjruiw,gu.xgvxzngyrpigfmigwf.uiw,gu.xgtyqi
yrpigfmigwpn;gtqfgfmingmzsi,gf.gdnginiw,grcgj.wwrtyi,gnifgxzxixg .y.xw,
yrpigcy.hixwgzubgjxi r.qwgwf.uiw,gzwgrcgfminghixigfmigjizxyw,gfmi
zurdzyreibg_uq yir_g.xg xnwfzywg.cgfmigHzybiughzfixagFmin,g.cg .qxwi,
zxigHzybiugzyyg.sixgzubgzyygfmx.qvm;gzxigfmidwiysiwgwdzyygHzybiuwgru
fmigzurdzygpruvb.d,gHzybiuwiwagRfgrwgwqxjxrwruvgfmzfgfmingzxig zqvmf
mixi,—fmzfgrugfmrwgbiijgzubg zjz r.qwgwjxruv,gczxgtiuizfmgfmigxzffyruv
fizdwgzubg mzrwiwgzubgfrupyruvgwyirvmwgfmzfgfxzsiygfmigHzybiugx.zb,
fmrwgvxizfgv.ybgzubgidixzybgcrwmgwhrdwagRguisixg mzu ibgf.gwiigrfwgprub
rugzungdzxpif;grfgh.qybgtigfmig nu.wqxig.cgzyyginiwgfmixiagIzwryn,ghrfm
zgcihg .usqywrsiglqrxpw,gfmingvrsigqjgfmirxghzfixngvm.wfw,gyrpigz
d.xfzygfxzuwyzfibgtic.xigmrwgfrdigf.gfmigfmrugzrxg.cgmizsiua



hzybiu_j.ub_dzj



ZwgRghzwgbiwrx.qwgf.gxi .sixgfmigy.uvgy.wfgt.ff.dg.cgHzybiugJ.ub,gR
wqxsinibgrfg zxicqyyn,gtic.xigfmigr igtx.pigqj,gizxyngrug’46,ghrfm
 .djzwwgzubg mzrugzubgw.qubruvgyruiagFmixigmzsigtiiugdzungwf.xriwgf.yb
zt.qfgfmigt.ff.d,g.xgxzfmixgu.gt.ff.d,g.cgfmrwgj.ub,ghmr mg ixfzruyn
mzbgu.gc.qubzfr.ugc.xgfmidwiysiwagRfgrwgxidzxpztyigm.hgy.uvgdiughryy
tiyrisigrugfmigt.ff.dyiwwuiwwg.cgzgj.ubghrfm.qfgfzpruvgfmigfx.qtyigf.
w.qubgrfagRgmzsigsrwrfibgfh.gwq mgT.ff.dyiwwgJ.ubwgrug.uighzypgrugfmrw
uirvmt.xm..bagDzungmzsigtiyrisibgfmzfgHzybiugxiz mibglqrfigfmx.qvmgf.
fmig.fmixgwrbig.cgfmigvy.tiagW.dighm.gmzsigyzrugcyzfg.ugfmigr igc.xgz
y.uvgfrdi,gy..pruvgb.hugfmx.qvmgfmigryyqwrsigdibrqd,gjix mzu ighrfm
hzfixnginiwgruf.gfmigtzxvzru,gzubgbxrsiugf.gmzwfng .u yqwr.uwgtngfmi
cizxg.cg zf mruvg .ybgrugfmirxgtxizwfw,gmzsigwiiugszwfgm.yiwg“ruf.
hmr mgzgy.zbg.cgmzngdrvmfgtigbxrsiu,”grcgfmixighixigzungt.bngf.gbxrsi
rf,gfmigqub.qtfibgw.qx ig.cgfmigWfnogzubgiufxzu igf.gfmigRucixuzy
Xivr.uwgcx.dgfmiwigjzxfwag.fmixwgmzsigv.uigb.hugcx.dgfmigsryyzvighrfmgz
“crcfn-wro”gzubgzghzv.ugy.zbg.cgru mgx.ji,gtqfgnifgmzsigczryibgf.gcrub
zungt.ff.d;gc.xghmryigfmig“crcfn-wro”ghzwgxiwfruvgtngfmighzn,gfminghixi
jznruvg.qfgfmigx.jigrugfmigszrugzffidjfgf.gczfm.dgfmirxgfxqyn
rddizwqxztyig zjz rfngc.xgdzxsiyy.qwuiwwagTqfgRg zugzwwqxigdngxizbixw
fmzfgHzybiugmzwgzgxizw.uztyngfrvmfgt.ff.dgzfgzgu.fgquxizw.uztyi,gfm.qvm
zfgzugquqwqzy,gbijfmagRgczfm.dibgrfgizwrynghrfmgzg .b-yruigzubgzgwf.ui
hirvmruvgzt.qfgzgj.qubgzubgzgmzyc,gzubg .qybgfiyygz  qxzfiynghmiugfmi
wf.uigyicfgfmigt.ff.d,gtngmzsruvgf.gjqyygw.gdq mgmzxbixgtic.xigfmi
hzfixgv.fgqubixuizfmgf.gmiyjgdiagFmigvxizfiwfgbijfmghzwgioz fyng.ui
mqubxibgzubgfh.gciif;gf.ghmr mgdzngtigzbbibgfmigcrsigciifghmr mgrfgmzw
xrwiugwru i,gdzpruvg.uigmqubxibgzubgwisiuagFmrwgrwgzgxidzxpztyigbijfm
c.xgw.gwdzyygzugzxiz;gnifgu.fgzugru mg.cgrfg zugtigwjzxibgtngfmi
rdzvruzfr.uagHmzfgrcgzyygj.ubwghixigwmzyy.h?gH.qybgrfgu.fgxiz fg.ugfmi
drubwg.cgdiu?gRgzdgfmzupcqygfmzfgfmrwgj.ubghzwgdzbigbiijgzubgjqxigc.xgz
wndt.yagHmryigdiugtiyrisigrugfmigrucrurfigw.digj.ubwghryygtigfm.qvmfgf.
tigt.ff.dyiwwa

Zgcz f.xng.huix,gmizxruvghmzfgbijfmgRgmzbgc.qub,gfm.qvmfgfmzfgrfg .qyb
u.fgtigfxqi,gc.x,gkqbvruvgcx.dgmrwgz lqzrufzu ighrfmgbzdw,gwzubgh.qyb
u.fgyrigzfgw.gwfiijgzugzuvyiagTqfgfmigbiijiwfgj.ubwgzxigu.fgw.gbiijgru
jx.j.xfr.ugf.gfmirxgzxizgzwgd.wfgwqjj.wi,gzub,grcgbxzruib,gh.qybgu.f
yizsigsixngxidzxpztyigszyyinwagFmingzxigu.fgyrpig qjwgtifhiiugfmi
mryyw;gc.xgfmrwg.ui,ghmr mgrwgw.gquqwqzyyngbiijgc.xgrfwgzxiz,gzjjizxw
rugzgsixfr zygwi fr.ugfmx.qvmgrfwg iufxigu.fgbiijixgfmzugzgwmzyy.h
jyzfiagD.wfgj.ubw,gidjfrib,gh.qybgyizsigzgdizb.hgu.gd.xigm.yy.hgfmzughi
cxilqiufyngwiiagHryyrzdgVryjru,ghm.grwgw.gzbdrxztyigrugzyygfmzfgxiyzfiw
f.gyzubw zjiw,gzubgqwqzyyngw.g .xxi f,gwfzubruvgzfgfmigmizbg.cgY. m
Cnui,grugW .fyzub,ghmr mgmigbiw xrtiwgzwg“zgtzng.cgwzyfghzfix,gwrofng.x
wisiufngczfm.dwgbiij,gc.qxgdryiwgrugtxizbfm,”gzubgzt.qfgcrcfngdryiw
y.uv,gwqxx.qubibgtngd.qufzruw,g.twixsiw,g“Rcghig .qybgmzsigwiiugrf
rddibrzfiyngzcfixgfmigbryqsrzug xzwm,g.xghmzfisixg .usqywr.ug.cgUzfqxi
.  zwr.uibgrf,gtic.xigfmighzfixwgvqwmibgru,ghmzfgzgm.xxrbg mzwdgdqwfgrf
mzsigzjjizxib!

gggggW.gmrvmgzwgmizsibgfmigfqdrbgmryyw,gw.gy.h
gggggB.hugwqupgzgm.yy.hgt.ff.dgtx.zbgzubgbiij,
ggggg zjz r.qwgtibg.cghzfixw—a”

Tqfgrc,gqwruvgfmigwm.xfiwfgbrzdifixg.cgY. mgCnui,ghigzjjyngfmiwi
jx.j.xfr.uwgf.gHzybiu,ghmr m,gzwghigmzsigwiiu,gzjjizxwgzyxizbngrugz
sixfr zygwi fr.ug.uyngyrpigzgwmzyy.hgjyzfi,grfghryygzjjizxgc.qxgfrdiw
zwgwmzyy.hagW.gdq mgc.xgfmig_ru xizwib_gm.xx.xwg.cgfmig mzwdg.cgY. m
CnuighmiugidjfribagU.gb.qtfgdzungzgwdryruvgszyyinghrfmgrfwgwfxif mruv
 .xucriybwg.  qjriwgioz fyngwq mgzg“m.xxrbg mzwd,”gcx.dghmr mgfmi
hzfixwgmzsigxi ibib,gfm.qvmgrfgxilqrxiwgfmigruwrvmfgzubgfmigczxgwrvmf
.cgfmigvi.y.vrwfgf.g .usru igfmigquwqwji fruvgrumztrfzufwg.cgfmrwgcz fa
.cfiugzugrulqrwrfrsiginigdzngbifi fgfmigwm.xiwg.cgzgjxrdrfrsigyzpigru
fmigy.hgm.xre.ugmryyw,gzubgu.gwqtwilqiufgiyiszfr.ug.cgfmigjyzrugmzw
tiiugui iwwzxngf.g .u izygfmirxgmrwf.xnagTqfgrfgrwgizwriwf,gzwgfminghm.
h.xpg.ugfmigmrvmhznwgpu.h,gf.gcrubgfmigm.yy.hwgtngfmigjqbbyiwgzcfixgz
wm.hixagFmigzd.qufg.cgrfgrw,gfmigrdzvruzfr.ugvrsigrfgfmigyizwfgyr iuwi,
brsiwgbiijixgzubgw.zxwgmrvmixgfmzugUzfqxigv.iwagW.,gjx.tztyn,gfmigbijfm
.cgfmig. izughryygtigc.qubgf.gtigsixngru .uwrbixztyig .djzxibghrfmgrfw
txizbfma

ZwgRgw.qubibgfmx.qvmgfmigr igRg .qybgbifixdruigfmigwmzjig.cgfmigt.ff.d
hrfmgvxizfixgz  qxz ngfmzugrwgj.wwrtyigrugwqxsinruvgmzxt.xwghmr mgb.
u.fgcxiieig.six,gzubgRghzwgwqxjxrwibgzfgrfwgviuixzygxivqyzxrfnagRugfmi
biijiwfgjzxfgfmixigzxigwisixzygz xiwgd.xigyisiygfmzugzyd.wfgzungcriyb
hmr mgrwgioj.wibgf.gfmigwqughrubgzubgjy.qvmagRug.uigruwfzu i,g.ugzgyrui
zxtrfxzxryng m.wiu,gfmigbijfmgbrbgu.fgszxngd.xigfmzug.uigc..fgrugfmrxfn
x.bw;gzubgviuixzyyn,guizxgfmigdrbbyi,gRg .qybg zy qyzfigfmigszxrzfr.u
c.xgiz mg.uigmqubxibgciifgrugzungbrxi fr.ugtic.ximzubghrfmrugfmxiig.x
c.qxgru miwagW.digzxigz  qwf.dibgf.gwjizpg.cgbiijgzubgbzuvix.qwgm.yiw
isiugruglqrifgwzubngj.ubwgyrpigfmrw,gtqfgfmigicci fg.cghzfixgqubix
fmiwig rx qdwfzu iwgrwgf.gyisiygzyygruilqzyrfriwagFmigxivqyzxrfng.cgfmi
t.ff.dgzubgrfwg .uc.xdrfngf.gfmigwm.xiwgzubgfmigxzuvig.cgfmi
uirvmt.xruvgmryywghixigw.gjixci fgfmzfgzgbrwfzufgjx.d.uf.xngtifxznib
rfwiycgrugfmigw.qubruvwglqrfigz x.wwgfmigj.ub,gzubgrfwgbrxi fr.ug .qyb
tigbifixdruibgtng.twixsruvgfmig.jj.wrfigwm.xiag zjigti .diwgtzx,gzub
jyzrugwm.zy,gzubgszyyingzubgv.xvigbiijghzfixgzubg mzuuiya

HmiugRgmzbgdzjjibgfmigj.ubgtngfmigw zyig.cgfiugx.bwgf.gzugru m,gzubgjqf
b.hugfmigw.qubruvw,gd.xigfmzugzgmqubxibgrugzyy,gRg.twixsibgfmrw
xidzxpztyig .ru rbiu iagMzsruvgu.fr ibgfmzfgfmiguqdtixgrubr zfruvgfmi
vxizfiwfgbijfmghzwgzjjzxiufyngrugfmig iufxig.cgfmigdzj,gRgyzrbgzgxqyi
.ugfmigdzjgyiuvfmhrwi,gzubgfmiugtxizbfmhrwi,gzubgc.qub,gf.gdngwqxjxrwi,
fmzfgfmigyruig.cgvxizfiwfgyiuvfmgrufixwi fibgfmigyruig.cgvxizfiwf
txizbfmg_ioz fyn_gzfgfmigj.rufg.cgvxizfiwfgbijfm,gu.fhrfmwfzubruvgfmzf
fmigdrbbyigrwgw.guizxyngyisiy,gfmig.qfyruig.cgfmigj.ubgczxgcx.d
xivqyzx,gzubgfmigiofxidigyiuvfmgzubgtxizbfmghixigv.fgtngdizwqxruvgruf.
fmig .siw;gzubgRgwzrbgf.gdnwiyc,gHm.gpu.hwgtqfgfmrwgmrufgh.qybg .ubq f
f.gfmigbiijiwfgjzxfg.cgfmig. izugzwghiyygzwg.cgzgj.ubg.xgjqbbyi?gRwgu.f
fmrwgfmigxqyigzyw.gc.xgfmigmirvmfg.cgd.qufzruw,gxivzxbibgzwgfmi
.jj.wrfig.cgszyyinw?gHigpu.hgfmzfgzgmryygrwgu.fgmrvmiwfgzfgrfw
uzxx.hiwfgjzxfa

.cgcrsig .siw,gfmxii,g.xgzyyghmr mgmzbgtiiugw.qubib,ghixig.twixsibgf.
mzsigzgtzxglqrfigz x.wwgfmirxgd.qfmwgzubgbiijixghzfixghrfmru,gw.gfmzf
fmigtzngfiubibgf.gtigzugiojzuwr.ug.cghzfixghrfmrugfmigyzubgu.fg.uyn
m.xre.ufzyyngtqfgsixfr zyyn,gzubgf.gc.xdgzgtzwrug.xgrubijiubiufgj.ub,
fmigbrxi fr.ug.cgfmigfh.g zjiwgwm.hruvgfmig .qxwig.cgfmigtzxagIsixn
mzxt.xg.ugfmigwiz- .zwf,gzyw.,gmzwgrfwgtzxgzfgrfwgiufxzu iagRu
jx.j.xfr.ugzwgfmigd.qfmg.cgfmig .sighzwghrbixg .djzxibghrfmgrfwgyiuvfm,
fmighzfixg.sixgfmigtzxghzwgbiijixg .djzxibghrfmgfmzfgrugfmigtzwrua
Vrsiu,gfmiu,gfmigyiuvfmgzubgtxizbfmg.cgfmig .si,gzubgfmig mzxz fixg.c
fmigwqxx.qubruvgwm.xi,gzubgn.qgmzsigzyd.wfgiyidiufwgiu.qvmgf.gdzpig.qf
zgc.xdqyzgc.xgzyyg zwiwa

Rug.xbixgf.gwiigm.hguizxyngRg .qybgvqiww,ghrfmgfmrwgiojixriu i,gzfgfmi
biijiwfgj.rufgrugzgj.ub,gtng.twixsruvgfmig.qfyruiwg.cgrfwgwqxcz igzub
fmig mzxz fixg.cgrfwgwm.xiwgzy.ui,gRgdzbigzgjyzug.cgHmrfigJ.ub,ghmr m
 .ufzruwgzt.qfgc.xfn-.uigz xiw,gzub,gyrpigfmrw,gmzwgu.grwyzubgrugrf,
u.xgzungsrwrtyigruyifg.xg.qfyif;gzubgzwgfmigyruig.cgvxizfiwfgtxizbfm
ciyygsixnguizxgfmigyruig.cgyizwfgtxizbfm,ghmixigfh.g.jj.wrfig zjiw
zjjx.z mibgiz mg.fmixgzubgfh.g.jj.wrfigtznwgxi ibib,gRgsiufqxibgf.gdzxp
zgj.rufgzgwm.xfgbrwfzu igcx.dgfmigyzffixgyrui,gtqfgwfryyg.ugfmigyruig.c
vxizfiwfgyiuvfm,gzwgfmigbiijiwfagFmigbiijiwfgjzxfghzwgc.qubgf.gti
hrfmrug.uigmqubxibgciifg.cgfmrw,gwfryygczxfmixgrugfmigbrxi fr.ugf.
hmr mgRgmzbgru yruib,gzubghzwg.uyng.uigc..fgbiijix,guzdiyn,gwrofngciifa
.cg .qxwi,gzgwfxizdgxquuruvgfmx.qvm,g.xgzugrwyzubgrugfmigj.ub,gh.qyb
dzpigfmigjx.tyidgdq mgd.xig .djyr zfiba

Rcghigpuihgzyygfmigyzhwg.cgUzfqxi,ghigwm.qybguiibg.uyng.uigcz f,g.xgfmi
biw xrjfr.ug.cg.uigz fqzygjmiu.diu.u,gf.grucixgzyygfmigjzxfr qyzx
xiwqyfwgzfgfmzfgj.rufagU.hghigpu.hg.uyngzgcihgyzhw,gzubg.qxgxiwqyfgrw
srfrzfib,gu.f,g.cg .qxwi,gtngzung .ucqwr.ug.xgrxxivqyzxrfngrugUzfqxi,
tqfgtng.qxgrvu.xzu ig.cgiwwiufrzygiyidiufwgrugfmig zy qyzfr.uag.qx
u.fr.uwg.cgyzhgzubgmzxd.ungzxig .dd.uyng .ucruibgf.gfm.wigruwfzu iw
hmr mghigbifi f;gtqfgfmigmzxd.unghmr mgxiwqyfwgcx.dgzgczxgvxizfix
uqdtixg.cgwiidruvyng .ucyr fruv,gtqfgxizyyng .u qxxruv,gyzhw,ghmr mghi
mzsigu.fgbifi fib,grwgwfryygd.xigh.ubixcqyagFmigjzxfr qyzxgyzhwgzxigzw
.qxgj.rufwg.cgsrih,gzw,gf.gfmigfxzsiyyix,gzgd.qufzrug.qfyruigszxriw
hrfmgisixngwfij,gzubgrfgmzwgzugrucrurfiguqdtixg.cgjx.cryiw,gfm.qvm
ztw.yqfiyngtqfg.uigc.xdagIsiughmiug yicfg.xgt.xibgfmx.qvmgrfgrwgu.f
 .djximiubibgrugrfwgiufrxiuiwwa

HmzfgRgmzsig.twixsibg.cgfmigj.ubgrwgu.gyiwwgfxqigrugifmr wagRfgrwgfmi
yzhg.cgzsixzviagWq mgzgxqyig.cgfmigfh.gbrzdifixwgu.fg.uyngvqrbiwgqw
f.hzxbgfmigwqugrugfmigwnwfidgzubgfmigmizxfgrugdzu,gtqfgbxzhgyruiw
fmx.qvmgfmigyiuvfmgzubgtxizbfmg.cgfmigzvvxivzfig.cgzgdzu’wgjzxfr qyzx
bzryngtimzsr.xwgzubghzsiwg.cgyrcigruf.gmrwg .siwgzubgruyifw,gzubghmixi
fmingrufixwi fghryygtigfmigmirvmfg.xgbijfmg.cgmrwg mzxz fixagJixmzjwghi
uiibg.uyngf.gpu.hgm.hgmrwgwm.xiwgfxiubgzubgmrwgzbkz iufg .qufxng.x
 rx qdwfzu iw,gf.grucixgmrwgbijfmgzubg .u izyibgt.ff.dagRcgmigrw
wqxx.qubibgtngd.qufzru.qwg rx qdwfzu iw,gzugZ mryyizugwm.xi,ghm.wi
jizpwg.sixwmzb.hgzubgzxigxicyi fibgrugmrwgt.w.d,gfmingwqvviwfgz
 .xxiwj.ubruvgbijfmgrugmrdagTqfgzgy.hgzubgwd..fmgwm.xigjx.siwgmrd
wmzyy.hg.ugfmzfgwrbiagRug.qxgt.briw,gzgt.ybgjx.ki fruvgtx.hgczyywg.cc
f.gzubgrubr zfiwgzg .xxiwj.ubruvgbijfmg.cgfm.qvmfagZyw.gfmixigrwgzgtzx
z x.wwgfmigiufxzu ig.cg.qxgisixng .si,g.xgjzxfr qyzxgru yruzfr.u;giz m
rwg.qxgmzxt.xgc.xgzgwizw.u,grughmr mghigzxigbifzruibgzubgjzxfrzyyn
yzub-y. pibagFmiwigru yruzfr.uwgzxigu.fghmrdwr zygqwqzyyn,gtqfgfmirx
c.xd,gwrei,gzubgbrxi fr.ugzxigbifixdruibgtngfmigjx.d.uf.xriwg.cgfmi
wm.xi,gfmigzu riufgzoiwg.cgiyiszfr.uagHmiugfmrwgtzxgrwgvxzbqzyyn
ru xizwibgtngwf.xdw,gfrbiw,g.xg qxxiufw,g.xgfmixigrwgzgwqtwrbiu ig.c
fmighzfixw,gw.gfmzfgrfgxiz miwgf.gfmigwqxcz i,gfmzfghmr mghzwgzfgcrxwf
tqfgzugru yruzfr.ugrugfmigwm.xigrughmr mgzgfm.qvmfghzwgmzxt.xibgti .diw
zugrubrsrbqzygyzpi,g qfg.ccgcx.dgfmig. izu,ghmixirugfmigfm.qvmfgwi qxiw
rfwg.hug .ubrfr.uw,g mzuviw,gjixmzjw,gcx.dgwzyfgf.gcxiwm,gti .diwgz
whiifgwiz,gbizbgwiz,g.xgzgdzxwmagZfgfmigzbsiufg.cgiz mgrubrsrbqzygruf.
fmrwgyrci,gdznghigu.fgwqjj.wigfmzfgwq mgzgtzxgmzwgxrwiugf.gfmigwqxcz i
w.dihmixi?gRfgrwgfxqi,ghigzxigwq mgj..xguzsrvzf.xwgfmzfg.qxgfm.qvmfw,
c.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,gwfzubg.ccgzubg.ugqj.ugzgmzxt.xyiwwg .zwf,gzxi
 .usixwzufg.uynghrfmgfmigtrvmfwg.cgfmigtznwg.cgj.iwn,g.xgwfiixgc.xgfmi
jqtyr gj.xfwg.cgiufxn,gzubgv.gruf.gfmigbxngb. pwg.cgw riu i,ghmixigfmin
dixiyngxicrfgc.xgfmrwgh.xyb,gzubgu.guzfqxzyg qxxiufwg .u qxgf.
rubrsrbqzyreigfmida

Zwgc.xgfmigruyifg.xg.qfyifg.cgHzybiu,gRgmzsigu.fgbrw .sixibgzungtqf
xzrugzubgwu.hgzubgiszj.xzfr.u,gfm.qvmgjixmzjw,ghrfmgzgfmixd.difixgzubgz
yrui,gwq mgjyz iwgdzngtigc.qub,gc.xghmixigfmighzfixgcy.hwgruf.gfmigj.ub
rfghryygjx.tztyngtig .ybiwfgrugwqddixgzubghzxdiwfgrughrufixagHmiugfmi
r i-diughixigzfgh.xpgmixigrug’46–7,gfmig zpiwgwiufgf.gfmigwm.xighixi
.uigbzngxiki fibgtngfm.wighm.ghixigwfz pruvgfmidgqjgfmixi,gu.fgtiruv
fmr pgiu.qvmgf.gyrigwrbigtngwrbighrfmgfmigxiwf;gzubgfmig qffixwgfmqw
brw .sixibgfmzfgfmigr ig.sixgzgwdzyygwjz ighzwgfh.g.xgfmxiigru miw
fmruuixgfmzugiywihmixi,ghmr mgdzbigfmidgfmrupgfmzfgfmixighzwgzugruyif
fmixiagFmingzyw.gwm.hibgdigrugzu.fmixgjyz ighmzfgfmingfm.qvmfghzwgz
“yiz mgm.yi,”gfmx.qvmghmr mgfmigj.ubgyizpibg.qfgqubixgzgmryygruf.gz
uirvmt.xruvgdizb.h,gjqwmruvgdig.qfg.ugzg zpig.cgr igf.gwiigrfagRfghzwgz
wdzyyg zsrfngqubixgfiugciifg.cghzfix;gtqfgRgfmrupgfmzfgRg zughzxxzuf
fmigj.ubgu.fgf.guiibgw.ybixruvgfryygfmingcrubgzgh.xwigyizpgfmzugfmzfa
.uigmzwgwqvviwfib,gfmzfgrcgwq mgzg“yiz mgm.yi”gwm.qybgtigc.qub,grfw
 .uui fr.ughrfmgfmigdizb.h,grcgzungiorwfib,gdrvmfgtigjx.sibgtn
 .usinruvgw.dig .y.xibgj.hbixg.xgwzhbqwfgf.gfmigd.qfmg.cgfmigm.yi,gzub
fmiugjqffruvgzgwfxzruixg.sixgfmigwjxruvgrugfmigdizb.h,ghmr mgh.qyb
 zf mgw.dig.cgfmigjzxfr yiwg zxxribgfmx.qvmgtngfmig qxxiufa

HmryigRghzwgwqxsinruv,gfmigr i,ghmr mghzwgwrofiiugru miwgfmr p,
qubqyzfibgqubixgzgwyrvmfghrubgyrpighzfixagRfgrwghiyygpu.hugfmzfgzgyisiy
 zuu.fgtigqwibg.ugr iagZfg.uigx.bgcx.dgfmigwm.xigrfwgvxizfiwf
cyq fqzfr.u,ghmiug.twixsibgtngdizuwg.cgzgyisiyg.ugyzubgbrxi fibgf.hzxb
zgvxzbqzfibgwfzccg.ugfmigr i,ghzwgfmxiiglqzxfixwg.cgzugru m,gfm.qvmgfmi
r igzjjizxibgcrxdyngzffz mibgf.gfmigwm.xiagRfghzwgjx.tztyngvxizfixgru
fmigdrbbyiagHm.gpu.hwgtqfgrcg.qxgruwfxqdiufwghixigbiyr zfigiu.qvmghi
drvmfgbifi fgzugqubqyzfr.ugrugfmig xqwfg.cgfmigizxfm?gHmiugfh.gyivwg.c
dngyisiyghixig.ugfmigwm.xigzubgfmigfmrxbg.ugfmigr i,gzubgfmigwrvmfw
hixigbrxi fibg.sixgfmigyzffix,gzgxrwig.xgczyyg.cgfmigr ig.cgzugzyd.wf
rucrurfiwrdzygzd.qufgdzbigzgbrccixiu ig.cgwisixzygciifg.ugzgfxiigz x.ww
fmigj.ubagHmiugRgtivzugf.g qfgm.yiwgc.xgw.qubruv,gfmixighixigfmxiig.x
c.qxgru miwg.cghzfixg.ugfmigr igqubixgzgbiijgwu.hghmr mgmzbgwqupgrf
fmqwgczx;gtqfgfmighzfixgtivzugrddibrzfiyngf.gxqugruf.gfmiwigm.yiw,gzub
 .ufruqibgf.gxqugc.xgfh.gbznwgrugbiijgwfxizdw,ghmr mgh.xigzhzngfmigr i
.ugisixngwrbi,gzubg .ufxrtqfibgiwwiufrzyyn,grcgu.fgdzruyn,gf.gbxngfmi
wqxcz ig.cgfmigj.ub;gc.x,gzwgfmighzfixgxzugru,grfgxzrwibgzubgcy.zfib
fmigr iagFmrwghzwgw.dihmzfgyrpig qffruvgzgm.yigrugfmigt.ff.dg.cgzgwmrj
f.gyifgfmighzfixg.qfagHmiugwq mgm.yiwgcxiiei,gzubgzgxzrugwq  iibw,gzub
cruzyyngzguihgcxiieruvgc.xdwgzgcxiwmgwd..fmgr ig.sixgzyy,grfgrw
tizqfrcqyyngd.ffyibgrufixuzyyngtngbzxpgcrvqxiw,gwmzjibgw.dihmzfgyrpigz
wjrbix’wghit,ghmzfgn.qgdzng zyygr igx.wiffiw,gjx.bq ibgtngfmig mzuuiyw
h.xugtngfmighzfixgcy.hruvgcx.dgzyygwrbiwgf.gzg iufxiagW.difrdiw,gzyw.,
hmiugfmigr ighzwg .sixibghrfmgwmzyy.hgjqbbyiw,gRgwzhgzgb.qtyigwmzb.hg.c
dnwiyc,g.uigwfzubruvg.ugfmigmizbg.cgfmig.fmix,g.uig.ugfmigr i,gfmi
.fmixg.ugfmigfxiiwg.xgmryy-wrbia



Hmryignifgrfgrwg .ybgKzuqzxn,gzubgwu.hgzubgr igzxigfmr pgzubgw.yrb,gfmi
jxqbiufgyzuby.xbg .diwgcx.dgfmigsryyzvigf.gvifgr igf.g ..ygmrwgwqddix
bxrup;grdjxiwwrsiyn,gisiugjzfmifr zyynghrwi,gf.gc.xiwiigfmigmizfgzub
fmrxwfg.cgKqyngu.hgrugKzuqzxn,—hizxruvgzgfmr pg .zfgzubgdrffiuw!ghmiu
w.gdzungfmruvwgzxigu.fgjx.srbibgc.xagRfgdzngtigfmzfgmigyznwgqjgu.
fxizwqxiwgrugfmrwgh.xybghmr mghryyg ..ygmrwgwqddixgbxrupgrugfmiguiofa
Mig qfwgzubgwzhwgfmigw.yrbgj.ub,gqux..cwgfmigm.qwig.cgcrwmiw,gzubg zxfw
.ccgfmirxgsixngiyidiufgzubgzrx,gmiybgczwfgtng mzruwgzubgwfzpiwgyrpi
 .xbibgh..b,gfmx.qvmgfmigczs.xruvghrufixgzrx,gf.ghrufxng iyyzxw,gf.
qubixyrigfmigwqddixgfmixiagRfgy..pwgyrpigw.yrbrcribgzeqxi,gzw,gczxg.cc,
rfgrwgbxzhugfmx.qvmgfmigwfxiifwagFmiwigr i- qffixwgzxigzgdixxngxz i,
cqyyg.cgkiwfgzubgwj.xf,gzubghmiugRghiufgzd.uvgfmidgfminghixigh.ufgf.
rusrfigdigf.gwzhgjrf-czwmr.ughrfmgfmid,gRgwfzubruvgqubixuizfma

Rugfmighrufixg.cg’46–7gfmixig zdigzgmqubxibgdiug.cgMnjixt.xizu
iofxz fr.ugwh..jgb.hug.ugf.g.qxgj.ubg.uigd.xuruv,ghrfmgdzung zx-y.zbw
.cgquvzruyn-y..pruvgczxdruvgf..yw,gwyibw,gjy.qvmw,gbxryy-tzxx.hw,
fqxc-pursiw,gwjzbiw,gwzhw,gxzpiw,gzubgiz mgdzughzwgzxdibghrfmgz
b.qtyi-j.rufibgjrpi-wfzcc,gwq mgzwgrwgu.fgbiw xrtibgrugfmigUih-Iuvyzub
Czxdixg.xgfmig qyfrszf.xagRgbrbgu.fgpu.hghmifmixgfmingmzbg .digf.gw.hgz
 x.jg.cghrufixgxni,g.xgw.dig.fmixgprubg.cgvxzrugxi iufyngrufx.bq ib
cx.dgR iyzubagZwgRgwzhgu.gdzuqxi,gRgkqbvibgfmzfgfmingdizufgf.gwprdgfmi
yzub,gzwgRgmzbgb.ui,gfmrupruvgfmigw.ryghzwgbiijgzubgmzbgyzrugczyy.h
y.uvgiu.qvmagFmingwzrbgfmzfgzgviufyidzugczxdix,ghm.ghzwgtimrubgfmi
w iuiw,ghzufibgf.gb.qtyigmrwgd.uin,ghmr m,gzwgRgqubixwf..b,gzd.qufibgf.
mzycgzgdryyr.ugzyxizbn;gtqfgrug.xbixgf.g .sixgiz mg.uig.cgmrwgb.yyzxw
hrfmgzu.fmix,gmigf..pg.ccgfmig.uyng .zf,gzn,gfmigwprugrfwiyc,g.cgHzybiu
J.ubgrugfmigdrbwfg.cgzgmzxbghrufixagFminghiufgf.gh.xpgzfg.u i,
jy.qvmruv,gmzxx.hruv,gx.yyruv,gcqxx.hruv,grugzbdrxztyig.xbix,gzwgrc
fminghixigtiufg.ugdzpruvgfmrwgzgd.biygczxd;gtqfghmiugRghzwgy..pruv
wmzxjgf.gwiighmzfgprubg.cgwiibgfmingbx.jjibgruf.gfmigcqxx.h,gzgvzuvg.c
ciyy.hwgtngdngwrbigwqbbiuyngtivzugf.gm..pgqjgfmigsrxvrugd.qybgrfwiyc,
hrfmgzgji qyrzxgkixp,g yizugb.hugf.gfmigwzub,g.xgxzfmixgfmighzfix,—c.x
rfghzwgzgsixngwjxruvngw.ry,—rubiibgzyygfmig_fixxzgcrxdz_gfmixighzw,—zub
mzqygrfgzhzng.ugwyibw,gzubgfmiugRgvqiwwibgfmzfgfmingdqwfgtig qffruv
jizfgrugzgt.vagW.gfming zdigzubghiufgisixngbzn,ghrfmgzgji qyrzxgwmxrip
cx.dgfmigy. .d.frsi,gcx.dgzubgf.gw.digj.rufg.cgfmigj.yzxgxivr.uw,gzwgrf
wiidibgf.gdi,gyrpigzgcy. pg.cgzx fr gwu.h-trxbwagTqfgw.difrdiwgWlqzh
Hzybiugmzbgmixgxisiuvi,gzubgzgmrxibgdzu,ghzypruvgtimrubgmrwgfizd,
wyrjjibgfmx.qvmgzg xz pgrugfmigvx.qubgb.hugf.hzxbgFzxfzxqw,gzubgmighm.
hzwgw.gtxzsigtic.xigwqbbiuyngti zdigtqfgfmigurufmgjzxfg.cgzgdzu,gzyd.wf
vzsigqjgmrwgzurdzygmizf,gzubghzwgvyzbgf.gfzpigxicqvigrugdngm.qwi,gzub
z pu.hyibvibgfmzfgfmixighzwgw.digsrxfqigrugzgwf.si;g.xgw.difrdiwgfmi
cx.eiugw.rygf..pgzgjri ig.cgwfiiyg.qfg.cgzgjy.qvmwmzxi,g.xgzgjy.qvmgv.f
wifgrugfmigcqxx.hgzubgmzbgf.gtig qfg.qfa

F.gwjizpgyrfixzyyn,gzgmqubxibgRxrwmdiu,ghrfmgNzupiig.sixwiixw,g zdi
cx.dg zdtxrbvigisixngbzngf.gvifg.qfgfmigr iagFmingbrsrbibgrfgruf.g zpiw
tngdifm.bwgf..ghiyygpu.hugf.gxilqrxigbiw xrjfr.u,gzubgfmiwi,gtiruv
wyibbibgf.gfmigwm.xi,ghixigxzjrbyngmzqyibg.ccg.ugf.gzugr igjyzfc.xd,
zubgxzrwibgtngvxzjjyruvgrx.uwgzubgty. pgzubgfz pyi,gh.xpibgtngm.xwiw,
.ugf.gzgwfz p,gzwgwqxiyngzwgw.gdzungtzxxiywg.cgcy.qx,gzubgfmixigjyz ib
isiuyngwrbigtngwrbi,gzubgx.hgqj.ugx.h,gzwgrcgfmingc.xdibgfmigw.yrbgtzwi
.cgzug.tiyrwpgbiwrvuibgf.gjrix igfmig y.qbwagFmingf.ybgdigfmzfgrugz
v..bgbzngfming .qybgvifg.qfgzgfm.qwzubgf.uw,ghmr mghzwgfmignriybg.c
zt.qfg.uigz xiagBiijgxqfwgzubg“ xzbyigm.yiw”ghixigh.xugrugfmigr i,gzw
.ug_fixxzgcrxdz_,gtngfmigjzwwzvig.cgfmigwyibwg.sixgfmigwzdigfxz p,gzub
fmigm.xwiwgruszxrztyngzfigfmirxg.zfwg.qfg.cg zpiwg.cgr igm.yy.hibg.qf
yrpigtq pifwagFmingwfz pibgqjgfmig zpiwgfmqwgrugfmig.jiugzrxgrugzgjryi
fmrxfn-crsigciifgmrvmg.ug.uigwrbigzubgwrog.xgwisiugx.bwgwlqzxi,gjqffruv
mzngtifhiiugfmig.qfwrbigyznixwgf.gio yqbigfmigzrx;gc.xghmiugfmighrub,
fm.qvmguisixgw.g .yb,gcrubwgzgjzwwzvigfmx.qvm,grfghryyghizxgyzxvi
 zsrfriw,gyizsruvgwyrvmfgwqjj.xfwg.xgwfqbwg.uyngmixigzubgfmixi,gzub
cruzyyngf.jjyigrfgb.huagZfgcrxwfgrfgy..pibgyrpigzgszwfgtyqigc.xfg.x
Szymzyyz;gtqfghmiugfmingtivzugf.gfq pgfmig .zxwigdizb.hgmzngruf.gfmi
 xisr iw,gzubgfmrwgti zdig .sixibghrfmgxrdigzubgr r yiw,grfgy..pibgyrpi
zgsiuixztyigd.ww-vx.hugzubgm.zxngxqru,gtqryfg.cgzeqxi-frufibgdzxtyi,
fmigzt.big.cgHrufix,gfmzfg.ybgdzughigwiigrugfmigzydzuz ,—mrwgwmzufn,gzw
rcgmigmzbgzgbiwrvugf.giwfrszfighrfmgqwagFming zy qyzfibgfmzfgu.f
fhiufn-crsigjixg iufg.cgfmrwgh.qybgxiz mgrfwgbiwfruzfr.u,gzubgfmzfgfh.
.xgfmxiigjixg iufgh.qybgtighzwfibgrugfmig zxwagM.hisix,gzgwfryygvxizfix
jzxfg.cgfmrwgmizjgmzbgzgbrccixiufgbiwfrungcx.dghmzfghzwgrufiubib;gc.x,
irfmixgti zqwigfmigr ighzwgc.qubgu.fgf.gpiijgw.ghiyygzwghzwgioji fib,
 .ufzruruvgd.xigzrxgfmzugqwqzy,g.xgc.xgw.dig.fmixgxizw.u,grfguisixgv.f
f.gdzxpifagFmrwgmizj,gdzbigrugfmighrufixg.cg’46–7gzubgiwfrdzfibgf.
 .ufzrugfiugfm.qwzubgf.uw,ghzwgcruzyyng .sixibghrfmgmzngzubgt.zxbw;gzub
fm.qvmgrfghzwgqux..cibgfmigc.yy.hruvgKqyn,gzubgzgjzxfg.cgrfg zxxrib
.cc,gfmigxiwfgxidzruruvgioj.wibgf.gfmigwqu,grfgwf..bg.sixgfmzfgwqddix
zubgfmiguiofghrufix,gzubghzwgu.fglqrfigdiyfibgfryygWijfidtixg1848agFmqw
fmigj.ubgxi .sixibgfmigvxizfixgjzxfa

Yrpigfmighzfix,gfmigHzybiugr i,gwiiuguizxgzfgmzub,gmzwgzgvxiiugfruf,
tqfgzfgzgbrwfzu igrwgtizqfrcqyyngtyqi,gzubgn.qg zugizwryngfiyygrfgcx.d
fmighmrfigr ig.cgfmigxrsix,g.xgfmigdixiyngvxiiurwmgr ig.cgw.digj.ubw,gz
lqzxfixg.cgzgdryig.ccagW.difrdiwg.uig.cgfm.wigvxizfg zpiwgwyrjwgcx.d
fmigr i-dzu’wgwyibgruf.gfmigsryyzvigwfxiif,gzubgyriwgfmixigc.xgzghiip
yrpigzgvxizfgidixzyb,gzug.tki fg.cgrufixiwfgf.gzyygjzwwixwagRgmzsi
u.fr ibgfmzfgzgj.xfr.ug.cgHzybiughmr mgrugfmigwfzfig.cghzfixghzwgvxiiu
hryyg.cfiu,ghmiugcx.eiu,gzjjizxgcx.dgfmigwzdigj.rufg.cgsrihgtyqiagW.
fmigm.yy.hwgzt.qfgfmrwgj.ubghryy,gw.difrdiw,grugfmighrufix,gtigcryyib
hrfmgzgvxiiurwmghzfixgw.dihmzfgyrpigrfwg.hu,gtqfgfmiguiofgbznghryygmzsi
cx.eiugtyqiagJixmzjwgfmigtyqig .y.xg.cghzfixgzubgr igrwgbqigf.gfmi
yrvmfgzubgzrxgfming .ufzru,gzubgfmigd.wfgfxzuwjzxiufgrwgfmigtyqiwfagR i
rwgzugrufixiwfruvgwqtki fgc.xg .ufidjyzfr.uagFmingf.ybgdigfmzfgfmingmzb
w.digrugfmigr i-m.qwiwgzfgCxiwmgJ.ubgcrsignizxwg.ybghmr mghzwgzwgv..b
zwgisixagHmngrwgrfgfmzfgzgtq pifg.cghzfixgw..ugti .diwgjqfxrb,gtqf
cx.eiugxidzruwgwhiifgc.xisix?gRfgrwg .dd.uyngwzrbgfmzfgfmrwgrwgfmi
brccixiu igtifhiiugfmigzcci fr.uwgzubgfmigrufiyyi fa

Fmqwgc.xgwrofiiugbznwgRgwzhgcx.dgdnghrub.hgzgmqubxibgdiugzfgh.xpgyrpi
tqwngmqwtzubdiu,ghrfmgfizdwgzubgm.xwiwgzubgzjjzxiufyngzyygfmi
rdjyidiufwg.cgczxdruv,gwq mgzgjr fqxigzwghigwiig.ugfmigcrxwfgjzvig.c
fmigzydzuz ;gzubgzwg.cfiugzwgRgy..pibg.qfgRghzwgxidrubibg.cgfmigcztyi
.cgfmigyzxpgzubgfmigxizjixw,g.xgfmigjzxztyig.cgfmigw.hix,gzubgfmigyrpi;
zubgu.hgfmingzxigzyygv.ui,gzubgrugfmrxfngbznwgd.xi,gjx.tztyn,gRgwmzyy
y..pgcx.dgfmigwzdighrub.hg.ugfmigjqxigwiz-vxiiugHzybiughzfixgfmixi,
xicyi fruvgfmig y.qbwgzubgfmigfxiiw,gzubgwiubruvgqjgrfwgiszj.xzfr.uwgru
w.yrfqbi,gzubgu.gfxz iwghryygzjjizxgfmzfgzgdzugmzwgisixgwf..bgfmixia
JixmzjwgRgwmzyygmizxgzgw.yrfzxngy..ugyzqvmgzwgmigbrsiwgzubgjyqdiw
mrdwiyc,g.xgwmzyygwiigzgy.uiyngcrwmixgrugmrwgt.zf,gyrpigzgcy.zfruv
yizc,gtim.ybruvgmrwgc.xdgxicyi fibgrugfmighzsiw,ghmixigyzfiyngzgmqubxib
diugwi qxiyngyzt.xiba

Fmqwgrfgzjjizxwgfmzfgfmigwhiyfixruvgrumztrfzufwg.cg mzxyiwf.ugzubgUih
.xyizuw,g.cgDzbxzwgzubgT.dtzngzubg zy qffz,gbxrupgzfgdnghiyyagRugfmi
d.xuruvgRgtzfmigdngrufiyyi fgrugfmigwfqjiub.qwgzubg .wd.v.uzy
jmry.w.jmng.cgfmigTmzvszfgViifz,gwru ighm.wig .dj.wrfr.ugnizxwg.cgfmi
v.bwgmzsigiyzjwib,gzubgrug .djzxrw.ughrfmghmr mg.qxgd.bixugh.xybgzub
rfwgyrfixzfqxigwiidgjqungzubgfxrsrzy;gzubgRgb.qtfgrcgfmzfgjmry.w.jmngrw
u.fgf.gtigxicixxibgf.gzgjxisr.qwgwfzfig.cgiorwfiu i,gw.gxid.figrwgrfw
wqtyrdrfngcx.dg.qxg .u ijfr.uwagRgyzngb.hugfmigt..pgzubgv.gf.gdnghiyy
c.xghzfix,gzubgy.!gfmixigRgdiifgfmigwixszufg.cgfmigTxzdru,gjxriwfg.c
TxzmdzgzubgSrwmuqgzubgRubxz,ghm.gwfryygwrfwgrugmrwgfidjyig.ugfmigVzuviw
xizbruvgfmigSibzw,g.xgbhiyywgzfgfmigx..fg.cgzgfxiighrfmgmrwg xqwfgzub
hzfixgkqvagRgdiifgmrwgwixszufg .digf.gbxzhghzfixgc.xgmrwgdzwfix,gzub
.qxgtq pifwgzwgrfghixigvxzfigf.vifmixgrugfmigwzdighiyyagFmigjqxigHzybiu
hzfixgrwgdruvyibghrfmgfmigwz xibghzfixg.cgfmigVzuviwagHrfmgczs.xruv
hrubwgrfgrwghzcfibgjzwfgfmigwrfig.cgfmigcztqy.qwgrwyzubwg.cgZfyzufrw
zubgfmigMiwjixrbiw,gdzpiwgfmigjixrjyqwg.cgMzuu.,gzub,gcy.zfruvgtn
FixuzfigzubgFrb.xigzubgfmigd.qfmg.cgfmigJixwrzugVqyc,gdiyfwgrugfmi
fx.jr gvzyiwg.cgfmigRubrzugwizw,gzubgrwgyzubibgrugj.xfwg.cghmr m
Zyiozubixg.uyngmizxbgfmiguzdiwa


Wjxruv

Fmig.jiuruvg.cgyzxvigfxz fwgtngfmigr i- qffixwg .dd.uyng zqwiwgzgj.ub
f.gtxizpgqjgizxyrix;gc.xgfmighzfix,gzvrfzfibgtngfmighrub,gisiugrug .yb
hizfmix,ghizxwgzhzngfmigwqxx.qubruvgr iagTqfgwq mghzwgu.fgfmigicci fg.u
Hzybiugfmzfgnizx,gc.xgwmigmzbgw..ugv.fgzgfmr pguihgvzxdiufgf.gfzpigfmi
jyz ig.cgfmig.ybagFmrwgj.ubguisixgtxizpwgqjgw.gw..ugzwgfmig.fmixwgru
fmrwguirvmt.xm..b,g.ugz  .qufgt.fmg.cgrfwgvxizfixgbijfmgzubgrfwgmzsruv
u.gwfxizdgjzwwruvgfmx.qvmgrfgf.gdiyfg.xghizxgzhzngfmigr iagRguisixgpuih
rfgf.g.jiugrugfmig .qxwig.cgzghrufix,gu.fgio ijfruvgfmzfg.cg’52–3,
hmr mgvzsigfmigj.ubwgw.gwisixigzgfxrzyagRfg .dd.uyng.jiuwgzt.qfgfmi
crxwfg.cgZjxry,gzghiipg.xgfiugbznwgyzfixgfmzugCyruf’wgJ.ubgzub
Czrx-Mzsiu,gtivruuruvgf.gdiyfg.ugfmigu.xfmgwrbigzubgrugfmigwmzyy.hix
jzxfwghmixigrfgtivzugf.gcxiieiagRfgrubr zfiwgtiffixgfmzugzunghzfix
mixizt.qfwgfmigztw.yqfigjx.vxiwwg.cgfmigwizw.u,gtiruvgyizwfgzcci fibgtn
fxzuwriufg mzuviwg.cgfidjixzfqxiagZgwisixig .ybg.cgzgcihgbznw’gbqxzfr.u
rugDzx mgdzngsixngdq mgxifzxbgfmig.jiuruvg.cgfmigc.xdixgj.ubw,ghmryi
fmigfidjixzfqxig.cgHzybiugru xizwiwgzyd.wfgqurufixxqjfibynagZ
fmixd.difixgfmxqwfgruf.gfmigdrbbyig.cgHzybiug.ugfmig6fmg.cgDzx m,g1847,
wf..bgzfg32°,g.xgcxiieruvgj.ruf;guizxgfmigwm.xigzfg33°;grugfmigdrbbyi
.cgCyruf’wgJ.ub,gfmigwzdigbzn,gzfg32½°;gzfgzgb.eiugx.bwgcx.dgfmigwm.xi,
rugwmzyy.hghzfix,gqubixgr igzgc..fgfmr p,gzfg36°agFmrwgbrccixiu ig.c
fmxiigzubgzgmzycgbivxiiwgtifhiiugfmigfidjixzfqxig.cgfmigbiijghzfixgzub
fmigwmzyy.hgrugfmigyzffixgj.ub,gzubgfmigcz fgfmzfgzgvxizfgjx.j.xfr.ug.c
rfgrwg .djzxzfrsiyngwmzyy.h,gwm.hghmngrfgwm.qybgtxizpgqjgw.gdq mgw..uix
fmzugHzybiuagFmigr igrugfmigwmzyy.hiwfgjzxfghzwgzfgfmrwgfrdigwisixzy
ru miwgfmruuixgfmzugrugfmigdrbbyiagRugdrb-hrufixgfmigdrbbyigmzbgtiiu
fmighzxdiwfgzubgfmigr igfmruuiwfgfmixiagW.,gzyw.,gisixng.uighm.gmzw
hzbibgzt.qfgfmigwm.xiwg.cgfmigj.ubgrugwqddixgdqwfgmzsigjix irsibgm.h
dq mghzxdixgfmighzfixgrwg y.wigf.gfmigwm.xi,ghmixig.uyngfmxiig.xgc.qx
ru miwgbiij,gfmzugzgyrffyigbrwfzu ig.qf,gzubg.ugfmigwqxcz ighmixigrfgrw
biij,gfmzuguizxgfmigt.ff.dagRugwjxruvgfmigwqugu.fg.uyngioixfwgzu
rucyqiu igfmx.qvmgfmigru xizwibgfidjixzfqxig.cgfmigzrxgzubgizxfm,gtqf
rfwgmizfgjzwwiwgfmx.qvmgr igzgc..fg.xgd.xigfmr p,gzubgrwgxicyi fibgcx.d
fmigt.ff.dgrugwmzyy.hghzfix,gzubgw.gzyw.ghzxdwgfmighzfixgzubgdiyfwgfmi
qubixgwrbig.cgfmigr i,gzfgfmigwzdigfrdigfmzfgrfgrwgdiyfruvgrfgd.xi
brxi fyngzt.si,gdzpruvgrfgquisiu,gzubg zqwruvgfmigzrxgtqttyiwghmr mgrf
 .ufzruwgf.giofiubgfmidwiysiwgqjhzxbgzubgb.huhzxbgqufrygrfgrw
 .djyifiyngm.uin .dtib,gzubgzfgyzwfgbrwzjjizxwgwqbbiuyngrugzgwruvyi
wjxruvgxzruagR igmzwgrfwgvxzrugzwghiyygzwgh..b,gzubghmiugzg zpigtivruw
f.gx.fg.xg“ .dt,”gfmzfgrw,gzwwqdigfmigzjjizxzu ig.cgm.uin- .dt,
hmzfisixgdzngtigrfwgj.wrfr.u,gfmigzrxg iyywgzxigzfgxrvmfgzuvyiwghrfm
hmzfghzwgfmighzfixgwqxcz iagHmixigfmixigrwgzgx. pg.xgzgy.vgxrwruvguizx
f.gfmigwqxcz igfmigr ig.sixgrfgrwgdq mgfmruuix,gzubgrwgcxilqiufynglqrfi
brww.ysibgtngfmrwgxicyi fibgmizf;gzubgRgmzsigtiiugf.ybgfmzfgrugfmi
iojixrdiufgzfg zdtxrbvigf.gcxiieighzfixgrugzgwmzyy.hgh..biugj.ub,
fm.qvmgfmig .ybgzrxg rx qyzfibgqubixuizfm,gzubgw.gmzbgz  iwwgf.gt.fm
wrbiw,gfmigxicyi fr.ug.cgfmigwqugcx.dgfmigt.ff.dgd.xigfmzu
 .qufixtzyzu ibgfmrwgzbszufzviagHmiugzghzxdgxzrugrugfmigdrbbyig.cgfmi
hrufixgdiyfwg.ccgfmigwu.h-r igcx.dgHzybiu,gzubgyizsiwgzgmzxbgbzxpg.x
fxzuwjzxiufgr ig.ugfmigdrbbyi,gfmixighryygtigzgwfxrjg.cgx.ffiugfm.qvm
fmr pixghmrfigr i,gzgx.bg.xgd.xighrbi,gzt.qfgfmigwm.xiw,g xizfibgtn
fmrwgxicyi fibgmizfagZyw.,gzwgRgmzsigwzrb,gfmigtqttyiwgfmidwiysiw
hrfmrugfmigr ig.jixzfigzwgtqxuruv-vyzwwiwgf.gdiyfgfmigr igtiuizfma

Fmigjmiu.diuzg.cgfmignizxgfzpigjyz igisixngbzngrugzgj.ubg.ugzgwdzyy
w zyiagIsixngd.xuruv,gviuixzyyngwjizpruv,gfmigwmzyy.hghzfixgrwgtiruv
hzxdibgd.xigxzjrbyngfmzugfmigbiij,gfm.qvmgrfgdzngu.fgtigdzbigw.ghzxd
zcfixgzyy,gzubgisixngisiuruvgrfgrwgtiruvg ..yibgd.xigxzjrbyngqufrygfmi
d.xuruvagFmigbzngrwgzugijrf.dig.cgfmignizxagFmigurvmfgrwgfmighrufix,
fmigd.xuruvgzubgisiuruvgzxigfmigwjxruvgzubgczyy,gzubgfmigu..ugrwgfmi
wqddixagFmig xz pruvgzubgt..druvg.cgfmigr igrubr zfigzg mzuvig.c
fidjixzfqxiag.uigjyizwzufgd.xuruvgzcfixgzg .ybgurvmf,gCitxqzxng24fm,
1850,gmzsruvgv.uigf.gCyruf’wgJ.ubgf.gwjiubgfmigbzn,gRgu.fr ibghrfm
wqxjxrwi,gfmzfghmiugRgwfxq pgfmigr ighrfmgfmigmizbg.cgdngzoi,grf
xiw.qubibgyrpigzgv.uvgc.xgdzungx.bwgzx.qub,g.xgzwgrcgRgmzbgwfxq pg.ugz
frvmfgbxqd-mizbagFmigj.ubgtivzugf.gt..dgzt.qfgzugm.qxgzcfixgwquxrwi,
hmiugrfgciyfgfmigrucyqiu ig.cgfmigwqu’wgxznwgwyzufibgqj.ugrfgcx.dg.six
fmigmryyw;grfgwfxif mibgrfwiycgzubgnzhuibgyrpigzghzpruvgdzughrfmgz
vxzbqzyyngru xizwruvgfqdqyf,ghmr mghzwgpijfgqjgfmxiig.xgc.qxgm.qxwagRf
f..pgzgwm.xfgwriwfzgzfgu..u,gzubgt..dibg.u igd.xigf.hzxbgurvmf,gzwgfmi
wqughzwghrfmbxzhruvgmrwgrucyqiu iagRugfmigxrvmfgwfzvig.cgfmighizfmixgz
j.ubgcrxiwgrfwgisiuruvgvqughrfmgvxizfgxivqyzxrfnagTqfgrugfmigdrbbyig.c
fmigbzn,gtiruvgcqyyg.cg xz pw,gzubgfmigzrxgzyw.gtiruvgyiwwgiyzwfr ,grf
mzbg .djyifiyngy.wfgrfwgxiw.uzu i,gzubgjx.tztyngcrwmiwgzubgdqwpxzfw
 .qybgu.fgfmiugmzsigtiiugwfquuibgtngzgty.hg.ugrfagFmigcrwmixdiugwzn
fmzfgfmig“fmqubixruvg.cgfmigj.ub”gw zxiwgfmigcrwmiwgzubgjxisiufwgfmirx
trfruvagFmigj.ubgb.iwgu.fgfmqubixgisixngisiuruv,gzubgRg zuu.fgfiyy
wqxiynghmiugf.gioji fgrfwgfmqubixruv;gtqfgfm.qvmgRgdzngjix irsigu.
brccixiu igrugfmighizfmix,grfgb.iwagHm.gh.qybgmzsigwqwji fibgw.gyzxvi
zubg .ybgzubgfmr p-wpruuibgzgfmruvgf.gtigw.gwiuwrfrsi?gNifgrfgmzwgrfw
yzhgf.ghmr mgrfgfmqubixwg.tibriu ighmiugrfgwm.qybgzwgwqxiyngzwgfmigtqbw
iojzubgrugfmigwjxruvagFmigizxfmgrwgzyygzyrsigzubg .sixibghrfmgjzjryyæa
Fmigyzxviwfgj.ubgrwgzwgwiuwrfrsigf.gzfd.wjmixr g mzuviwgzwgfmigvy.tqyi
.cgdix qxngrugrfwgfqtia



.uigzffxz fr.ugrug .druvgf.gfmigh..bwgf.gyrsighzwgfmzfgRgwm.qybgmzsi
yirwqxigzubg.jj.xfqurfngf.gwiigfmigwjxruvg .digruagFmigr igrugfmigj.ub
zfgyiuvfmgtivruwgf.gtigm.uin- .dtib,gzubgRg zugwifgdngmiiygrugrfgzwgR
hzypagC.vwgzubgxzruwgzubghzxdixgwquwgzxigvxzbqzyyngdiyfruvgfmigwu.h;
fmigbznwgmzsigvx.hugwiuwrtyngy.uvix;gzubgRgwiigm.hgRgwmzyygvifgfmx.qvm
fmighrufixghrfm.qfgzbbruvgf.gdngh..b-jryi,gc.xgyzxvigcrxiwgzxigu.
y.uvixgui iwwzxnagRgzdg.ugfmigzyixfgc.xgfmigcrxwfgwrvuwg.cgwjxruv,gf.
mizxgfmig mzu igu.fig.cgw.digzxxrsruvgtrxb,g.xgfmigwfxrjibgwlqrxxiy’w
 mrxj,gc.xgmrwgwf.xiwgdqwfgtigu.hguizxyngiomzqwfib,g.xgwiigfmi
h..b mq pgsiufqxig.qfg.cgmrwghrufixglqzxfixwag.ugfmig13fmg.cgDzx m,
zcfixgRgmzbgmizxbgfmigtyqitrxb,gw.uv-wjzxx.h,gzubgxib-hruv,gfmigr ighzw
wfryyguizxyngzgc..fgfmr pagZwgfmighizfmixgvxihghzxdixgrfghzwgu.f
wiuwrtyngh.xugzhzngtngfmighzfix,gu.xgtx.piugqjgzubgcy.zfibg.ccgzwgru
xrsixw,gtqf,gfm.qvmgrfghzwg .djyifiyngdiyfibgc.xgmzycgzgx.bgrughrbfm
zt.qfgfmigwm.xi,gfmigdrbbyighzwgdixiyngm.uin- .dtibgzubgwzfqxzfibghrfm
hzfix,gw.gfmzfgn.qg .qybgjqfgn.qxgc..fgfmx.qvmgrfghmiugwrogru miw
fmr p;gtqfgtngfmiguiofgbzngisiuruv,gjixmzjw,gzcfixgzghzxdgxzrugc.yy.hib
tngc.v,grfgh.qybgmzsighm.yyngbrwzjjizxib,gzyygv.uig.ccghrfmgfmigc.v,
wjrxrfibgzhznag.uignizxgRghiufgz x.wwgfmigdrbbyig.uyngcrsigbznwgtic.xi
rfgbrwzjjizxibgiufrxiynagRug1845gHzybiughzwgcrxwfg .djyifiyng.jiug.u
fmig1wfg.cgZjxry;grug’46,gfmig25fmg.cgDzx m;grug’47,gfmig8fmg.cgZjxry;
rug’51,gfmig28fmg.cgDzx m;grug’52,gfmig18fmg.cgZjxry;grug’53,gfmig23b
.cgDzx m;grug’54,gzt.qfgfmig7fmg.cgZjxrya

Isixngru rbiufg .uui fibghrfmgfmigtxizpruvgqjg.cgfmigxrsixwgzubgj.ubw
zubgfmigwiffyruvg.cgfmighizfmixgrwgjzxfr qyzxyngrufixiwfruvgf.gqwghm.
yrsigrugzg yrdzfig.cgw.gvxizfgiofxidiwagHmiugfmighzxdixgbznwg .di,gfmin
hm.gbhiyyguizxgfmigxrsixgmizxgfmigr ig xz pgzfgurvmfghrfmgzgwfzxfyruv
hm..jgzwgy.qbgzwgzxfryyixn,gzwgrcgrfwgr ngciffixwghixigxiufgcx.dgiubgf.
iub,gzubghrfmrugzgcihgbznwgwiigrfgxzjrbyngv.ruvg.qfagW.gfmigzyyrvzf.x
 .diwg.qfg.cgfmigdqbghrfmglqzpruvwg.cgfmigizxfmag.uig.ybgdzu,ghm.gmzw
tiiugzg y.wig.twixsixg.cgUzfqxi,gzubgwiidwgzwgfm.x.qvmynghrwigrugxivzxb
f.gzyygmixg.jixzfr.uwgzwgrcgwmigmzbgtiiugjqfgqj.ugfmigwf. pwghmiugmi
hzwgzgt.n,gzubgmigmzbgmiyjibgf.gyzngmixgpiiy,—hm.gmzwg .digf.gmrw
vx.hfm,gzubg zugmzxbyngz lqrxigd.xig.cguzfqxzygy.xigrcgmigwm.qybgyrsi
f.gfmigzvig.cgDifmqwiyzm,—f.ybgdi,gzubgRghzwgwqxjxrwibgf.gmizxgmrd
iojxiwwgh.ubixgzfgzung.cgUzfqxi’wg.jixzfr.uw,gc.xgRgfm.qvmfgfmzfgfmixi
hixigu.gwi xifwgtifhiiugfmid,gfmzfg.uigwjxruvgbzngmigf..pgmrwgvqugzub
t.zf,gzubgfm.qvmfgfmzfgmigh.qybgmzsigzgyrffyigwj.xfghrfmgfmigbq pwa
Fmixighzwgr igwfryyg.ugfmigdizb.hw,gtqfgrfghzwgzyygv.uig.qfg.cgfmi
xrsix,gzubgmigbx.jjibgb.hughrfm.qfg.twfxq fr.ugcx.dgWqbtqxn,ghmixigmi
yrsib,gf.gCzrx-MzsiugJ.ub,ghmr mgmigc.qub,gquioji fibyn,g .sixibgc.x
fmigd.wfgjzxfghrfmgzgcrxdgcriybg.cgr iagRfghzwgzghzxdgbzn,gzubgmighzw
wqxjxrwibgf.gwiigw.gvxizfgzgt.bng.cgr igxidzruruvagU.fgwiiruvgzun
bq pw,gmigmrbgmrwgt.zfg.ugfmigu.xfmg.xgtz pgwrbig.cgzugrwyzubgrugfmi
j.ub,gzubgfmiug .u izyibgmrdwiycgrugfmigtqwmiwg.ugfmigw.qfmgwrbi,gf.
zhzrfgfmidagFmigr ighzwgdiyfibgc.xgfmxiig.xgc.qxgx.bwgcx.dgfmigwm.xi,
zubgfmixighzwgzgwd..fmgzubghzxdgwmiifg.cghzfix,ghrfmgzgdqbbngt.ff.d,
wq mgzwgfmigbq pwgy.si,ghrfmru,gzubgmigfm.qvmfgrfgyrpiyngfmzfgw.di
h.qybgtigzy.uvgjxiffngw..uagZcfixgmigmzbgyzrugwfryygfmixigzt.qfgzugm.qx
migmizxbgzgy.hgzubgwiidruvyngsixngbrwfzufgw.qub,gtqfgwruvqyzxyngvxzub
zubgrdjxiwwrsi,gquyrpigzungfmruvgmigmzbgisixgmizxb,gvxzbqzyyngwhiyyruv
zubgru xizwruvgzwgrcgrfgh.qybgmzsigzgqursixwzygzubgdid.xztyigiubruv,gz
wqyyiugxqwmgzubgx.zx,ghmr mgwiidibgf.gmrdgzyygzfg.u igyrpigfmigw.qubg.c
zgszwfgt.bng.cgc.hyg .druvgrugf.gwiffyigfmixi,gzub,gwireruvgmrwgvqu,gmi
wfzxfibgqjgrugmzwfigzubgio rfib;gtqfgmigc.qub,gf.gmrwgwqxjxrwi,gfmzf
fmighm.yigt.bng.cgfmigr igmzbgwfzxfibghmryigmigyzngfmixi,gzubgbxrcfib
rugf.gfmigwm.xi,gzubgfmigw.qubgmigmzbgmizxbghzwgdzbigtngrfwgibvi
vxzfruvg.ugfmigwm.xi,—zfgcrxwfgviufyngurttyibgzubg xqdtyibg.cc,gtqfgzf
yiuvfmgmizsruvgqjgzubgw zffixruvgrfwghxi pwgzy.uvgfmigrwyzubgf.gz
 .uwrbixztyigmirvmfgtic.xigrfg zdigf.gzgwfzubgwfryya

Zfgyiuvfmgfmigwqu’wgxznwgmzsigzffzruibgfmigxrvmfgzuvyi,gzubghzxdghrubw
ty.hgqjgdrwfgzubgxzrugzubgdiyfgfmigwu.hgtzupw,gzubgfmigwqugbrwjixwruv
fmigdrwfgwdryiwg.ugzg mi pixibgyzubw zjig.cgxqwwifgzubghmrfigwd.pruv
hrfmgru iuwi,gfmx.qvmghmr mgfmigfxzsiyyixgjr pwgmrwghzngcx.dgrwyifgf.
rwyif,g miixibgtngfmigdqwr g.cgzgfm.qwzubgfrupyruvgxryywgzubgxrsqyifw
hm.wigsiruwgzxigcryyibghrfmgfmigty..bg.cghrufixghmr mgfmingzxigtizxruv
.cca

Cihgjmiu.diuzgvzsigdigd.xigbiyrvmfgfmzugf.g.twixsigfmigc.xdwghmr m
fmzhruvgwzubgzubg yzngzwwqdigrugcy.hruvgb.hugfmigwrbiwg.cgzgbiijg qfg.u
fmigxzryx.zbgfmx.qvmghmr mgRgjzwwibg.ugdnghzngf.gfmigsryyzvi,gz
jmiu.diu.ugu.fgsixng .dd.ug.ugw.gyzxvigzgw zyi,gfm.qvmgfmiguqdtixg.c
cxiwmyngioj.wibgtzupwg.cgfmigxrvmfgdzfixrzygdqwfgmzsigtiiugvxizfyn
dqyfrjyribgwru igxzryx.zbwghixigrusiufibagFmigdzfixrzyghzwgwzubg.c
isixngbivxiig.cgcruiuiwwgzubg.cgszxr.qwgxr mg .y.xw,g .dd.uyngdroib
hrfmgzgyrffyig yznagHmiugfmigcx.wfg .diwg.qfgrugfmigwjxruv,gzubgisiugru
zgfmzhruvgbzngrugfmighrufix,gfmigwzubgtivruwgf.gcy.hgb.hugfmigwy.jiw
yrpigyzsz,gw.difrdiwgtqxwfruvg.qfgfmx.qvmgfmigwu.hgzubg.sixcy.hruvgrf
hmixigu.gwzubghzwgf.gtigwiiugtic.xiagRuuqdixztyigyrffyigwfxizdwg.sixyzj
zubgrufixyz ig.uighrfmgzu.fmix,giomrtrfruvgzgw.xfg.cgmntxrbgjx.bq f,
hmr mg.tinwgmzycghzngfmigyzhg.cg qxxiufw,gzubgmzycghzngfmzfg.c
sivifzfr.uagZwgrfgcy.hwgrfgfzpiwgfmigc.xdwg.cgwzjjngyizsiwg.xgsruiw,
dzpruvgmizjwg.cgjqyjngwjxznwgzgc..fg.xgd.xigrugbijfm,gzubgxiwidtyruv,
zwgn.qgy..pgb.hug.ugfmid,gfmigyz rurzfib,gy.tib,gzubgrdtxr zfib
fmzyyqwiwg.cgw.digyr miuw;g.xgn.qgzxigxidrubibg.cg .xzy,g.cgyi.jzxb’w
jzhwg.xgtrxbw’gciif,g.cgtxzruwg.xgyquvwg.xgt.hiyw,gzubgio xidiufwg.c
zyygprubwagRfgrwgzgfxqyng_vx.fiwlqi_gsivifzfr.u,ghm.wigc.xdwgzubg .y.x
higwiigrdrfzfibgrugtx.uei,gzgw.xfg.cgzx mrfi fqxzygc.yrzvigd.xigzu riuf
zubgfnjr zygfmzugz zufmqw,g mr  .xn,grsn,gsrui,g.xgzungsivifztyi
yizsiw;gbiwfruibgjixmzjw,gqubixgw.dig rx qdwfzu iw,gf.gti .digzgjqeeyi
f.gcqfqxigvi.y.vrwfwagFmighm.yig qfgrdjxiwwibgdigzwgrcgrfghixigzg zsi
hrfmgrfwgwfzyz frfiwgyzrbg.jiugf.gfmigyrvmfagFmigszxr.qwgwmzbiwg.cgfmi
wzubgzxigwruvqyzxyngxr mgzubgzvxiiztyi,gidtxz ruvgfmigbrccixiufgrx.u
 .y.xw,gtx.hu,gvxzn,gniyy.hrwm,gzubgxibbrwmagHmiugfmigcy.hruvgdzww
xiz miwgfmigbxzrugzfgfmigc..fg.cgfmigtzupgrfgwjxizbwg.qfgcyzffixgruf.
_wfxzubw_,gfmigwijzxzfigwfxizdwgy.wruvgfmirxgwidr- nyrubxr zygc.xdgzub
vxzbqzyyngti .druvgd.xigcyzfgzubgtx.zb,gxquuruvgf.vifmixgzwgfmingzxi
d.xigd.rwf,gfryygfmingc.xdgzugzyd.wfgcyzfg_wzub_,gwfryygszxr.qwyngzub
tizqfrcqyyngwmzbib,gtqfgrughmr mgn.qg zugfxz igfmig.xrvruzygc.xdwg.c
sivifzfr.u;gfryygzfgyiuvfm,grugfmighzfixgrfwiyc,gfmingzxig .usixfib
ruf.g_tzupw_,gyrpigfm.wigc.xdibg.ccgfmigd.qfmwg.cgxrsixw,gzubgfmigc.xdw
.cgsivifzfr.ugzxigy.wfgrugfmigxrjjyigdzxpwg.ugfmigt.ff.da

Fmighm.yigtzup,ghmr mgrwgcx.dgfhiufngf.gc.xfngciifgmrvm,grwgw.difrdiw
.sixyzrbghrfmgzgdzwwg.cgfmrwgprubg.cgc.yrzvi,g.xgwzubngxqjfqxi,gc.xgz
lqzxfixg.cgzgdryig.ug.uig.xgt.fmgwrbiw,gfmigjx.bq ig.cg.uigwjxruvgbzna
Hmzfgdzpiwgfmrwgwzubgc.yrzvigxidzxpztyigrwgrfwgwjxruvruvgruf.giorwfiu i
fmqwgwqbbiuynagHmiugRgwiig.ugfmig.uigwrbigfmigruixfgtzup,—c.xgfmigwqu
z fwg.ug.uigwrbigcrxwf,—zubg.ugfmig.fmixgfmrwgyqoqxrzufgc.yrzvi,gfmi
 xizfr.ug.cgzugm.qx,gRgzdgzcci fibgzwgrcgrugzgji qyrzxgwiuwigRgwf..bgru
fmigyzt.xzf.xng.cgfmigZxfrwfghm.gdzbigfmigh.xybgzubgdi,—mzbg .digf.
hmixigmighzwgwfryygzfgh.xp,gwj.xfruvg.ugfmrwgtzup,gzubghrfmgio iwwg.c
iuixvngwfxihruvgmrwgcxiwmgbiwrvuwgzt.qfagRgciiygzwgrcgRghixiguizxixgf.
fmigsrfzywg.cgfmigvy.ti,gc.xgfmrwgwzubng.sixcy.hgrwgw.difmruvgwq mgz
c.yrz i.qwgdzwwgzwgfmigsrfzywg.cgfmigzurdzygt.bnagN.qgcrubgfmqwgrugfmi
sixngwzubwgzugzufr rjzfr.ug.cgfmigsivifztyigyizcagU.gh.ubixgfmzfgfmi
izxfmgiojxiwwiwgrfwiycg.qfhzxbyngrugyizsiw,grfgw.gyzt.xwghrfmgfmigrbiz
ruhzxbynagFmigzf.dwgmzsigzyxizbngyizxuibgfmrwgyzh,gzubgzxigjxivuzufgtn
rfagFmig.sixmzuvruvgyizcgwiiwgmixigrfwgjx.f.fnjiag_Rufixuzyyn_,ghmifmix
rugfmigvy.tig.xgzurdzygt.bn,grfgrwgzgd.rwfgfmr pg_y.ti_,gzgh.xb
iwji rzyyngzjjyr ztyigf.gfmigyrsixgzubgyquvwgzubgfmig_yizsiw_g.cgczf,
(?i?ß?,g_yzt.x_,g_yzjwqw_,gf.gcy.hg.xgwyrjgb.huhzxb,gzgyzjwruv;g??ß??,
_vy.tqw_,gy.ti,gvy.ti;gzyw.gyzj,gcyzj,gzubgdzung.fmixgh.xbw,)
_iofixuzyyn_gzgbxngfmrug_yizc_,gisiugzwgfmig_c_gzubg_s_gzxigzgjxiwwib
zubgbxribg_t_agFmigxzbr zywg.cg_y.ti_gzxig_yt_,gfmigw.cfgdzwwg.cgfmi
_t_g(wruvyigy.tib,g.xgT,gb.qtyigy.tib,)ghrfmgfmigyrlqrbg_y_gtimrubgrf
jxiwwruvgrfgc.xhzxbagRugvy.ti,g_vyt_,gfmigvqffqxzyg_v_gzbbwgf.gfmi
dizuruvgfmig zjz rfng.cgfmigfmx.zfagFmigcizfmixwgzubghruvwg.cgtrxbwgzxi
wfryygbxrixgzubgfmruuixgyizsiwagFmqw,gzyw.,gn.qgjzwwgcx.dgfmigyqdjrwm
vxqtgrugfmigizxfmgf.gfmigzrxngzubgcyqffixruvgtqffixcynagFmigsixngvy.ti
 .ufruqzyyngfxzuw iubwgzubgfxzuwyzfiwgrfwiyc,gzubgti .diwghruvibgrugrfw
.xtrfagIsiugr igtivruwghrfmgbiyr zfig xnwfzygyizsiw,gzwgrcgrfgmzb
cy.hibgruf.gd.qybwghmr mgfmigcx.ubwg.cghzfixgjyzufwgmzsigrdjxiwwibg.u
fmighzfixngdrxx.xagFmighm.yigfxiigrfwiycgrwgtqfg.uigyizc,gzubgxrsixw
zxigwfryygszwfixgyizsiwghm.wigjqyjgrwgrufixsiuruvgizxfm,gzubgf.huwgzub
 rfriwgzxigfmig.szg.cgruwi fwgrugfmirxgzorywa

Hmiugfmigwqughrfmbxzhwgfmigwzubg izwiwgf.gcy.h,gtqfgrugfmigd.xuruvgfmi
wfxizdwghryygwfzxfg.u igd.xigzubgtxzu mgzubgtxzu mgzvzrugruf.gzgdnxrzb
.cg.fmixwagN.qgmixigwiigjix mzu igm.hgty..bgsiwwiywgzxigc.xdibagRcgn.q
y..pg y.wiyngn.qg.twixsigfmzfgcrxwfgfmixigjqwmiwgc.xhzxbgcx.dgfmi
fmzhruvgdzwwgzgwfxizdg.cgw.cfiuibgwzubghrfmgzgbx.j-yrpigj.ruf,gyrpigfmi
tzyyg.cgfmigcruvix,gciiyruvgrfwghzngwy.hyngzubgtyrubyngb.huhzxb,gqufry
zfgyzwfghrfmgd.xigmizfgzubgd.rwfqxi,gzwgfmigwqugvifwgmrvmix,gfmigd.wf
cyqrbgj.xfr.u,grugrfwgicc.xfgf.g.tingfmigyzhgf.ghmr mgfmigd.wfgruixf
zyw.gnriybw,gwijzxzfiwgcx.dgfmigyzffixgzubgc.xdwgc.xgrfwiycgz
dizubixruvg mzuuiyg.xgzxfixnghrfmrugfmzf,grughmr mgrwgwiiugzgyrffyi
wrysixngwfxizdgvyzu ruvgyrpigyrvmfuruvgcx.dg.uigwfzvig.cgjqyjngyizsiw
.xgtxzu miwgf.gzu.fmix,gzubgisixgzubgzu.ugwhzyy.hibgqjgrugfmigwzubagRf
rwgh.ubixcqygm.hgxzjrbyngnifgjixci fyngfmigwzubg.xvzureiwgrfwiycgzwgrf
cy.hw,gqwruvgfmigtiwfgdzfixrzygrfwgdzwwgzcc.xbwgf.gc.xdgfmigwmzxjgibviw
.cgrfwg mzuuiyagWq mgzxigfmigw.qx iwg.cgxrsixwagRugfmigwryr r.qwgdzffix
hmr mgfmighzfixgbij.wrfwgrwgjixmzjwgfmigt.ungwnwfid,gzubgrugfmigwfryy
cruixgw.rygzubg.xvzur gdzffixgfmigcyiwmngcrtxig.xg iyyqyzxgfrwwqiagHmzf
rwgdzugtqfgzgdzwwg.cgfmzhruvg yzn?gFmigtzyyg.cgfmigmqdzugcruvixgrwgtqf
zgbx.jg .uvizyibagFmigcruvixwgzubgf.iwgcy.hgf.gfmirxgiofiufgcx.dgfmi
fmzhruvgdzwwg.cgfmigt.bnagHm.gpu.hwghmzfgfmigmqdzugt.bngh.qybgiojzub
zubgcy.hg.qfgf.gqubixgzgd.xigviurzygmizsiu?gRwgu.fgfmigmzubgzgwjxizbruv
_jzyd_gyizcghrfmgrfwgy.tiwgzubgsiruw?gFmigizxgdzngtigxivzxbib,
czu rcqyyn,gzwgzgyr miu,g_qdtryr zxrz_,g.ugfmigwrbig.cgfmigmizb,ghrfm
rfwgy.tig.xgbx.jagFmigyrj—_yztrqd_,gcx.dg_yzt.x_g(?)—yzjwg.xgyzjwiw
cx.dgfmigwrbiwg.cgfmig zsixu.qwgd.qfmagFmigu.wigrwgzgdzurciwfg .uvizyib
bx.jg.xgwfzyz frfiagFmig mrugrwgzgwfryygyzxvixgbx.j,gfmig .ucyqiuf
bxrjjruvg.cgfmigcz iagFmig miipwgzxigzgwyrbigcx.dgfmigtx.hwgruf.gfmi
szyying.cgfmigcz i,g.jj.wibgzubgbrccqwibgtngfmig miipgt.uiwagIz m
x.qubibgy.tig.cgfmigsivifztyigyizc,gf..,grwgzgfmr pgzubgu.hgy.rfixruv
bx.j,gyzxvixg.xgwdzyyix;gfmigy.tiwgzxigfmigcruvixwg.cgfmigyizc;gzubgzw
dzungy.tiwgzwgrfgmzw,grugw.gdzungbrxi fr.uwgrfgfiubwgf.gcy.h,gzubgd.xi
mizfg.xg.fmixgviurzygrucyqiu iwgh.qybgmzsig zqwibgrfgf.gcy.hgnif
czxfmixa

Fmqwgrfgwiidibgfmzfgfmrwg.uigmryywrbigryyqwfxzfibgfmigjxru rjyig.cgzyy
fmig.jixzfr.uwg.cgUzfqxiagFmigDzpixg.cgfmrwgizxfmgtqfgjzfiufibgzgyizca
Hmzfg mzdj.yyr.ughryygbi rjmixgfmrwgmrix.vynjmr gc.xgqw,gfmzfghigdzn
fqxug.sixgzguihgyizcgzfgyzwf?gFmrwgjmiu.diu.ugrwgd.xigiomryzxzfruvgf.
digfmzugfmigyqoqxrzu igzubgcixfryrfng.cgsruinzxbwagFxqi,grfgrwgw.dihmzf
io xidiufrfr.qwgrugrfwg mzxz fix,gzubgfmixigrwgu.giubgf.gfmigmizjwg.c
yrsixgyrvmfwgzubgt.hiyw,gzwgrcgfmigvy.tighixigfqxuibghx.uvgwrbi
.qfhzxb;gtqfgfmrwgwqvviwfwgzfgyizwfgfmzfgUzfqxigmzwgw.digt.hiyw,gzub
fmixigzvzrugrwgd.fmixg.cgmqdzurfnagFmrwgrwgfmigcx.wfg .druvg.qfg.cgfmi
vx.qub;gfmrwgrwgWjxruvagRfgjxi ibiwgfmigvxiiugzubgcy.hixngwjxruv,gzw
dnfm.y.vngjxi ibiwgxivqyzxgj.ifxnagRgpu.hg.cgu.fmruvgd.xigjqxvzfrsig.c
hrufixgcqdiwgzubgrubrviwfr.uwagRfg .usru iwgdigfmzfgIzxfmgrwgwfryygru
mixgwhzbbyruvg y.fmiw,gzubgwfxif miwgc.xfmgtztngcruvixwg.ugisixngwrbia
Cxiwmg qxywgwjxruvgcx.dgfmigtzybiwfgtx.hagFmixigrwgu.fmruvgru.xvzur a
Fmiwigc.yrz i.qwgmizjwgyrigzy.uvgfmigtzupgyrpigfmigwyzvg.cgzgcqxuz i,
wm.hruvgfmzfgUzfqxigrwg“rugcqyygtyzwf”ghrfmruagFmigizxfmgrwgu.fgzgdixi
cxzvdiufg.cgbizbgmrwf.xn,gwfxzfqdgqj.ugwfxzfqdgyrpigfmigyizsiwg.cgz
t..p,gf.gtigwfqbribgtngvi.y.vrwfwgzubgzufrlqzxriwg mricyn,gtqfgyrsruv
j.ifxngyrpigfmigyizsiwg.cgzgfxii,ghmr mgjxi ibigcy.hixwgzubgcxqrf,—u.f
zgc.wwrygizxfm,gtqfgzgyrsruvgizxfm;g .djzxibghrfmghm.wigvxizfg iufxzy
yrcigzyygzurdzygzubgsivifztyigyrcigrwgdixiyngjzxzwrfr agRfwgfmx.iwghryy
mizsig.qxgioqsrægcx.dgfmirxgvxzsiwagN.qgdzngdiyfgn.qxgdifzywgzubg zwf
fmidgruf.gfmigd.wfgtizqfrcqygd.qybwgn.qg zu;gfminghryyguisixgio rfigdi
yrpigfmigc.xdwghmr mgfmrwgd.yfiugizxfmgcy.hwg.qfgruf.agZubgu.fg.uyngrf,
tqfgfmigruwfrfqfr.uwgqj.ugrf,gzxigjyzwfr gyrpig yzngrugfmigmzubwg.cgfmi
j.ffixa



Ixigy.uv,gu.fg.uyng.ugfmiwigtzupw,gtqfg.ugisixngmryygzubgjyzrugzubgru
isixngm.yy.h,gfmigcx.wfg .diwg.qfg.cgfmigvx.qubgyrpigzgb.xdzuf
lqzbxqjibgcx.dgrfwgtqxx.h,gzubgwiipwgfmigwizghrfmgdqwr ,g.xgdrvxzfiwgf.
.fmixg yrdiwgrug y.qbwagFmzhghrfmgmrwgviufyigjixwqzwr.ugrwgd.xi
j.hixcqygfmzugFm.xghrfmgmrwgmzddixagFmig.uigdiyfw,gfmig.fmixgtqfgtxizpw
rugjri iwa

Hmiugfmigvx.qubghzwgjzxfrzyyngtzxig.cgwu.h,gzubgzgcihghzxdgbznwgmzb
bxribgrfwgwqxcz igw.dihmzf,grfghzwgjyizwzufgf.g .djzxigfmigcrxwfgfiubix
wrvuwg.cgfmigruczufgnizxgkqwfgjiijruvgc.xfmghrfmgfmigwfzfiyngtizqfng.c
fmighrfmixibgsivifzfr.ughmr mgmzbghrfmwf..bgfmi
hrufix,—yrci-isixyzwfruv,gv.ybiu-x.bw,gjruhiibw,gzubgvxz icqyghryb
vxzwwiw,gd.xig.tsr.qwgzubgrufixiwfruvgcxilqiufyngfmzugrugwqddixgisiu,
zwgrcgfmirxgtizqfnghzwgu.fgxrjigfryygfmiu;gisiug .ff.u-vxzww,
 zf-fzryw,gdqyyiruw,gk.muwh.xf,gmzxb-mz p,gdizb.h-whiif,gzubg.fmix
wfx.uvgwfiddibgjyzufw,gfm.wigquiomzqwfibgvxzuzxriwghmr mgiufixfzrugfmi
izxyriwfgtrxbw,—bi iufghiibw,gzfgyizwf,ghmr mghrb.hibgUzfqxighizxwagR
zdgjzxfr qyzxyngzffxz fibgtngfmigzx mruvgzubgwmizc-yrpigf.jg.cgfmi
h..y-vxzww;grfgtxruvwgtz pgfmigwqddixgf.g.qxghrufixgdid.xriw,gzubgrw
zd.uvgfmigc.xdwghmr mgzxfgy.siwgf.g .jn,gzubghmr m,grugfmigsivifztyi
pruvb.d,gmzsigfmigwzdigxiyzfr.ugf.gfnjiwgzyxizbngrugfmigdrubg.cgdzu
fmzfgzwfx.u.dngmzwagRfgrwgzugzufrlqigwfnyig.ybixgfmzugVxiipg.x
IvnjfrzuagDzung.cgfmigjmiu.diuzg.cgHrufixgzxigwqvviwfrsig.cgzu
ruiojxiwwrtyigfiubixuiwwgzubgcxzvryigbiyr z nagHigzxigz  qwf.dibgf.
mizxgfmrwgpruvgbiw xrtibgzwgzgxqbigzubgt.rwfix.qwgfnxzuf;gtqfghrfmgfmi
viufyiuiwwg.cgzgy.sixgmigzb.xuwgfmigfxiwwiwg.cgWqddixa

Zfgfmigzjjx.z mg.cgwjxruvgfmigxib-wlqrxxiywgv.fgqubixgdngm.qwi,gfh.gzf
zgfrdi,gbrxi fyngqubixgdngciifgzwgRgwzfgxizbruvg.xghxrfruv,gzubgpijfgqj
fmiglqiixiwfg mq pyruvgzubg mrxxqjruvgzubgs. zygjrx.qiffruvgzub
vqxvyruvgw.qubwgfmzfgisixghixigmizxb;gzubghmiugRgwfzdjibgfming.uyn
 mrxxqjibgfmigy.qbix,gzwgrcgjzwfgzyygcizxgzubgxiwji fgrugfmirxgdzb
jxzupw,gbicnruvgmqdzurfngf.gwf.jgfmidagU.gn.q
b.u’f— mr pzxii— mr pzxiiagFminghixighm.yyngbizcgf.gdngzxvqdiufw,g.x
czryibgf.gjix irsigfmirxgc.x i,gzubgciyygruf.gzgwfxzrug.cgrusi frsi
fmzfghzwgrxxiwrwfrtyia

Fmigcrxwfgwjzxx.hg.cgwjxruv!gFmignizxgtivruuruvghrfmgn.quvixgm.jigfmzu
isix!gFmigczrufgwrysixnghzxtyruvwgmizxbg.sixgfmigjzxfrzyyngtzxigzub
d.rwfgcriybwgcx.dgfmigtyqi-trxb,gfmigw.uv-wjzxx.h,gzubgfmigxib-hruv,gzw
rcgfmigyzwfgcyzpiwg.cghrufixgfrupyibgzwgfmingciyy!gHmzfgzfgwq mgzgfrdi
zxigmrwf.xriw,g mx.u.y.vriw,gfxzbrfr.uw,gzubgzyyghxrffiugxisiyzfr.uw?
Fmigtx..pwgwruvg zx.ywgzubgvyiiwgf.gfmigwjxruvagFmigdzxwm-mzhpgwzryruv
y.hg.sixgfmigdizb.hgrwgzyxizbngwiipruvgfmigcrxwfgwyrdngyrcigfmzf
zhzpiwagFmigwrupruvgw.qubg.cgdiyfruvgwu.hgrwgmizxbgrugzyygbiyyw,gzub
fmigr igbrww.ysiwgzjz igrugfmigj.ubwagFmigvxzwwgcyzdiwgqjg.ugfmi
mryywrbiwgyrpigzgwjxruvgcrxi,—“ifgjxrdrfqwg.xrfqxgmixtzgrdtxrtqw
jxrd.xrtqwgis. zfz,”—zwgrcgfmigizxfmgwiufgc.xfmgzugruhzxbgmizfgf.gvxiif
fmigxifqxuruvgwqu;gu.fgniyy.hgtqfgvxiiugrwgfmig .y.xg.cgrfwgcyzdi;—fmi
wndt.yg.cgjixjifqzygn.qfm,gfmigvxzww-tyzbi,gyrpigzgy.uvgvxiiugxrtt.u,
wfxizdwgcx.dgfmigw.bgruf.gfmigwqddix,g mi pibgrubiibgtngfmigcx.wf,gtqf
zu.ugjqwmruvg.ugzvzru,gyrcfruvgrfwgwjizxg.cgyzwfgnizx’wgmznghrfmgfmi
cxiwmgyrcigtiy.hagRfgvx.hwgzwgwfizbryngzwgfmigxryyg..eiwg.qfg.cgfmi
vx.qubagRfgrwgzyd.wfgrbiufr zyghrfmgfmzf,gc.xgrugfmigvx.hruvgbznwg.c
Kqui,ghmiugfmigxryywgzxigbxn,gfmigvxzwwgtyzbiwgzxigfmirxg mzuuiyw,gzub
cx.dgnizxgf.gnizxgfmigmixbwgbxrupgzfgfmrwgjixiuurzygvxiiugwfxizd,gzub
fmigd.hixgbxzhwgcx.dgrfgtifrdiwgfmirxghrufixgwqjjynagW.g.qxgmqdzugyrci
tqfgbriwgb.hugf.grfwgx..f,gzubgwfryygjqfwgc.xfmgrfwgvxiiugtyzbigf.
ifixurfna

Hzybiugrwgdiyfruvgzjz iagFmixigrwgzg zuzygfh.gx.bwghrbigzy.uvgfmi
u.xfmixyngzubghiwfixyngwrbiw,gzubghrbixgwfryygzfgfmigizwfgiubagZgvxizf
criybg.cgr igmzwg xz pibg.ccgcx.dgfmigdzrugt.bnagRgmizxgzgw.uv-wjzxx.h
wruvruvgcx.dgfmigtqwmiwg.ugfmigwm.xi,—_.yrf_,g_.yrf_,g_.yrf,_—_ mrj_,
_ mrj_,g_ mrj_,g_ mig mzx_,—_ mighrww_,g_hrww_,g_hrww_agMigf..grw
miyjruvgf.g xz pgrfagM.hgmzubw.digfmigvxizfgwhiijruvg qxsiwgrugfmigibvi
.cgfmigr i,gzuwhixruvgw.dihmzfgf.gfm.wig.cgfmigwm.xi,gtqfgd.xigxivqyzx!
Rfgrwgquqwqzyyngmzxb,g.hruvgf.gfmigxi iufgwisixigtqfgfxzuwriufg .yb,
zubgzyyghzfixibg.xghzsibgyrpigzgjzyz igcy..xagTqfgfmighrubgwyrbiw
izwfhzxbg.sixgrfwg.jzlqigwqxcz igrugszru,gfryygrfgxiz miwgfmigyrsruv
wqxcz igtin.ubagRfgrwgvy.xr.qwgf.gtim.ybgfmrwgxrtt.ug.cghzfixgwjzxpyruv
rugfmigwqu,gfmigtzxigcz ig.cgfmigj.ubgcqyyg.cgvyiigzubgn.qfm,gzwgrcgrf
wj.pigfmigk.ng.cgfmigcrwmiwghrfmrugrf,gzubg.cgfmigwzubwg.ugrfwgwm.xi,—z
wrysixngwmiiugzwgcx.dgfmigw zyiwg.cgzg_yiq rw qw_,gzwgrfghixigzyyg.ui
z frsigcrwmagWq mgrwgfmig .ufxzwfgtifhiiughrufixgzubgwjxruvagHzybiughzw
bizbgzubgrwgzyrsigzvzruagTqfgfmrwgwjxruvgrfgtx.pigqjgd.xigwfizbryn,gzw
Rgmzsigwzrba

Fmig mzuvigcx.dgwf.xdgzubghrufixgf.gwixiuigzubgdrybghizfmix,gcx.dgbzxp
zubgwyqvvrwmgm.qxwgf.gtxrvmfgzubgiyzwfr g.uiw,grwgzgdid.xztyig xrwrw
hmr mgzyygfmruvwgjx. yzrdagRfgrwgwiidruvyngruwfzufzui.qwgzfgyzwfa
Wqbbiuyngzugrucyqog.cgyrvmfgcryyibgdngm.qwi,gfm.qvmgfmigisiuruvghzwgzf
mzub,gzubgfmig y.qbwg.cghrufixgwfryyg.sixmquvgrf,gzubgfmigizsiwghixi
bxrjjruvghrfmgwyiifngxzruagRgy..pibg.qfgfmighrub.h,gzubgy.!ghmixi
niwfixbznghzwg .ybgvxzngr igfmixigyzngfmigfxzuwjzxiufgj.ubgzyxizbng zyd
zubgcqyyg.cgm.jigzwgrugzgwqddixgisiuruv,gxicyi fruvgzgwqddixgisiuruv
wpngrugrfwgt.w.d,gfm.qvmgu.uighzwgsrwrtyig.sixmizb,gzwgrcgrfgmzb
rufiyyrviu ighrfmgw.digxid.figm.xre.uagRgmizxbgzgx.trugrugfmigbrwfzu i,
fmigcrxwfgRgmzbgmizxbgc.xgdzungzgfm.qwzubgnizxw,gdifm.qvmf,ghm.wigu.fi
Rgwmzyygu.fgc.xvifgc.xgdzungzgfm.qwzubgd.xi,—fmigwzdigwhiifgzub
j.hixcqygw.uvgzwg.cgn.xiag.gfmigisiuruvgx.tru,gzfgfmigiubg.cgzgUih
Iuvyzubgwqddixgbzn!gRcgRg .qybgisixgcrubgfmigfhrvgmigwrfwgqj.u!gRgdizu
_mi_;gRgdizug_fmigfhrv_agFmrwgzfgyizwfgrwgu.fgfmig_Fqxbqwgdrvxzf.xrqw_a
Fmigjrf m-jruiwgzubgwmxqt-.zpwgzt.qfgdngm.qwi,ghmr mgmzbgw.gy.uv
bx..jib,gwqbbiuyngxiwqdibgfmirxgwisixzyg mzxz fixw,gy..pibgtxrvmfix,
vxiiuix,gzubgd.xigixi fgzubgzyrsi,gzwgrcgicci fqzyyng yizuwibgzub
xiwf.xibgtngfmigxzruagRgpuihgfmzfgrfgh.qybgu.fgxzrugzungd.xiagN.qgdzn
fiyygtngy..pruvgzfgzungfhrvg.cgfmigc.xiwf,gzn,gzfgn.qxgsixngh..b-jryi,
hmifmixgrfwghrufixgrwgjzwfg.xgu.fagZwgrfgvxihgbzxpix,gRghzwgwfzxfyibgtn
fmig_m.upruv_g.cgviiwigcynruvgy.hg.sixgfmigh..bw,gyrpighizxngfxzsiyyixw
viffruvgrugyzfigcx.dgw.qfmixugyzpiw,gzubgrubqyvruvgzfgyzwfgru
quxiwfxzruibg .djyzrufgzubgdqfqzyg .uw.yzfr.uagWfzubruvgzfgdngb..x,gR
 .qybgmizxgfmigxqwmg.cgfmirxghruvw;ghmiu,gbxrsruvgf.hzxbgdngm.qwi,gfmin
wqbbiuyngwjribgdngyrvmf,gzubghrfmgmqwmibg yzd.xghmiiyibgzubgwiffyibgru
fmigj.ubagW.gRg zdigru,gzubgwmqfgfmigb..x,gzubgjzwwibgdngcrxwfgwjxruv
urvmfgrugfmigh..bwa

Rugfmigd.xuruvgRghzf mibgfmigviiwigcx.dgfmigb..xgfmx.qvmgfmigdrwf,
wzryruvgrugfmigdrbbyig.cgfmigj.ub,gcrcfngx.bwg.cc,gw.gyzxvigzub
fqdqyfq.qwgfmzfgHzybiugzjjizxibgyrpigzugzxfrcr rzygj.ubgc.xgfmirx
zdqwidiufagTqfghmiugRgwf..bg.ugfmigwm.xigfmingzfg.u igx.wigqjghrfmgz
vxizfgcyzjjruvg.cghruvwgzfgfmigwrvuzyg.cgfmirxg .ddzubix,gzubghmiugfmin
mzbgv.fgruf.gxzupg rx yibgzt.qfg.sixgdngmizb,gfhiufn-uruig.cgfmid,gzub
fmiugwfiixibgwfxzrvmfgf.g zuzbz,ghrfmgzgxivqyzxg_m.up_gcx.dgfmigyizbix
zfgrufixszyw,gfxqwfruvgf.gtxizpgfmirxgczwfgrugdqbbrixgj..ywagZg“jyqdj”
.cgbq pwgx.wigzfgfmigwzdigfrdigzubgf..pgfmigx.qfigf.gfmigu.xfmgrugfmi
hzpig.cgfmirxgu.rwrixg .qwruwa

C.xgzghiipgRgmizxbgfmig rx yruv,gvx.jruvg yzuv.xg.cgw.digw.yrfzxngv..wi
rugfmigc.vvngd.xuruvw,gwiipruvgrfwg .djzur.u,gzubgwfryygji.jyruvgfmi
h..bwghrfmgfmigw.qubg.cgzgyzxvixgyrcigfmzugfming .qybgwqwfzruagRugZjxry
fmigjrvi.uwghixigwiiugzvzrugcynruvgiojxiwwgrugwdzyygcy. pw,gzubgrugbqi
frdigRgmizxbgfmigdzxfruwgfhrffixruvg.sixgdng yizxruv,gfm.qvmgrfgmzbgu.f
wiidibgfmzfgfmigf.huwmrjg .ufzruibgw.gdzungfmzfgrfg .qybgzcc.xbgdigzun,
zubgRgczu ribgfmzfgfminghixigji qyrzxyng.cgfmigzu riufgxz igfmzfgbhiyf
rugm.yy.hgfxiiwgixighmrfigdiug zdiagRugzyd.wfgzyyg yrdiwgfmigf.xf.rwi
zubgfmigcx.vgzxigzd.uvgfmigjxi qxw.xwgzubgmixzybwg.cgfmrwgwizw.u,gzub
trxbwgcynghrfmgw.uvgzubgvyzu ruvgjyqdzvi,gzubgjyzufwgwjxruvgzubgty..d,
zubghrubwgty.h,gf.g .xxi fgfmrwgwyrvmfg.w ryyzfr.ug.cgfmigj.yiwgzub
jxiwixsigfmigilqryrtxrqdg.cgUzfqxia

Zwgisixngwizw.ugwiidwgtiwfgf.gqwgrugrfwgfqxu,gw.gfmig .druvgrug.c
wjxruvgrwgyrpigfmig xizfr.ug.cg .wd.wg.qfg.cg mz.wgzubgfmigxizyrezfr.u
.cgfmigV.ybiugZvia—

ggggg“IqxqwgzbgZqx.xzdgUztzfmæzlqigxivuzgxi iwwrf,
gggggJixwrbzlqi,gifgxzbrrwgkqvzgwqtbrfzgdzfqfrurwa”

ggggg“FmigIzwf-Hrubghrfmbxihgf.gZqx.xzgzubgfmigUztzfmæzugpruvb.d,
gggggZubgfmigJixwrzu,gzubgfmigxrbviwgjyz ibgqubixgfmigd.xuruvgxznw

gggggggggggg*gggg*gggg*gggg*

gggggDzughzwgt.xuaggHmifmixgfmzfgZxfrcr ixg.cgfmruvw,
gggggFmig.xrvrug.cgzgtiffixgh.xyb,gdzbigmrdgcx.dgfmigbrsruigwiib;
ggggg.xgfmigizxfm,gtiruvgxi iufgzubgyzfiyngwqubixibgcx.dgfmigmrvm
gggggIfmix,gxifzruibgw.digwiibwg.cg .vuzfigmizsiua”

ZgwruvyigviufyigxzrugdzpiwgfmigvxzwwgdzungwmzbiwgvxiiuixagW.g.qx
jx.wji fwgtxrvmfiug.ugfmigrucyqog.cgtiffixgfm.qvmfwagHigwm.qybgti
tyiwwibgrcghigyrsibgrugfmigjxiwiufgzyhznw,gzubgf..pgzbszufzvig.cgisixn
z  rbiufgfmzfgticiyygqw,gyrpigfmigvxzwwghmr mg .uciwwiwgfmigrucyqiu i
.cgfmigwyrvmfiwfgbihgfmzfgczyywg.ugrf;gzubgbrbgu.fgwjiubg.qxgfrdigru
zf.uruvgc.xgfmiguivyi fg.cgjzwfg.jj.xfqurfriw,ghmr mghig zyygb.ruvg.qx
bqfnagHigy.rfixgrughrufixghmryigrfgrwgzyxizbngwjxruvagRugzgjyizwzuf
wjxruvgd.xuruvgzyygdiu’wgwruwgzxigc.xvrsiuagWq mgzgbzngrwgzgfxq igf.
sr iagHmryigwq mgzgwqugm.ybwg.qfgf.gtqxu,gfmigsryiwfgwruuixgdzngxifqxua
Fmx.qvmg.qxg.hugxi .sixibgruu. iu ighigbrw ixugfmigruu. iu ig.cg.qx
uirvmt.xwagN.qgdzngmzsigpu.hugn.qxguirvmt.xgniwfixbzngc.xgzgfmric,gz
bxqupzxb,g.xgzgwiuwqzyrwf,gzubgdixiyngjrfribg.xgbiwjrwibgmrd,gzub
biwjzrxibg.cgfmigh.xyb;gtqfgfmigwqugwmruiwgtxrvmfgzubghzxdgfmrwgcrxwf
wjxruvgd.xuruv,gxi- xizfruvgfmigh.xyb,gzubgn.qgdiifgmrdgzfgw.digwixiui
h.xp,gzubgwiigm.hgmrwgiomzqwfibgzubgbitzq mibgsiruwgiojzubghrfmgwfryy
k.ngzubgtyiwwgfmiguihgbzn,gciiygfmigwjxruvgrucyqiu ighrfmgfmigruu. iu i
.cgruczu n,gzubgzyygmrwgczqyfwgzxigc.xv.ffiuagFmixigrwgu.fg.uyngzu
zfd.wjmixig.cgv..bghryygzt.qfgmrd,gtqfgisiugzgwzs.xg.cgm.yruiwwgvx.jruv
c.xgiojxiwwr.u,gtyrubyngzubgruicci fqzyyngjixmzjw,gyrpigzguih-t.xu
ruwfru f,gzubgc.xgzgwm.xfgm.qxgfmigw.qfmgmryy-wrbigi m.iwgf.gu.gsqyvzx
kiwfagN.qgwiigw.digruu. iufgczrxgwm..fwgjxijzxruvgf.gtqxwfgcx.dgmrw
vuzxyibgxrubgzubgfxngzu.fmixgnizx’wgyrci,gfiubixgzubgcxiwmgzwgfmi
n.quviwfgjyzufagIsiugmigmzwgiufixibgruf.gfmigk.ng.cgmrwgY.xbagHmngfmi
kzryixgb.iwgu.fgyizsig.jiugmrwgjxrw.ugb..xw,—hmngfmigkqbvigb.iwgu.f
brwdrwgmrwg zwi,—hmngfmigjxiz mixgb.iwgu.fgbrwdrwwgmrwg .uvxivzfr.u!gRf
rwgti zqwigfmingb.gu.fg.tingfmigmrufghmr mgV.bgvrsiwgfmid,gu.xgz  ijf
fmigjzxb.ughmr mgmigcxiiyng.ccixwgf.gzyya

“Zgxifqxugf.gv..buiwwgjx.bq ibgiz mgbzngrugfmigfxzulqrygzubgtiuicr iuf
txizfmg.cgfmigd.xuruv,g zqwiwgfmzfgrugxiwji fgf.gfmigy.sig.cgsrxfqigzub
fmigmzfxibg.cgsr i,g.uigzjjx.z miwgzgyrffyigfmigjxrdrfrsiguzfqxig.c
dzu,gzwgfmigwjx.qfwg.cgfmigc.xiwfghmr mgmzwgtiiugciyyibagRugyrpigdzuuix
fmigisryghmr mg.uigb.iwgrugfmigrufixszyg.cgzgbzngjxisiufwgfmigvixdwg.c
srxfqiwghmr mgtivzugf.gwjxruvgqjgzvzrugcx.dgbisiy.jruvgfmidwiysiwgzub
biwfx.nwgfmida

“Zcfixgfmigvixdwg.cgsrxfqigmzsigfmqwgtiiugjxisiufibgdzungfrdiwgcx.d
bisiy.jruvgfmidwiysiw,gfmiugfmigtiuicr iufgtxizfmg.cgisiuruvgb.iwgu.f
wqccr igf.gjxiwixsigfmidagZwgw..ugzwgfmigtxizfmg.cgisiuruvgb.iwgu.f
wqccr igy.uvixgf.gjxiwixsigfmid,gfmiugfmiguzfqxig.cgdzugb.iwgu.fgbrccix
dq mgcx.dgfmzfg.cgfmigtxqfiagDiugwiiruvgfmiguzfqxig.cgfmrwgdzugyrpi
fmzfg.cgfmigtxqfi,gfmrupgfmzfgmigmzwguisixgj.wwiwwibgfmigruuzfigcz qyfn
.cgxizw.uagZxigfm.wigfmigfxqigzubguzfqxzygwiufrdiufwg.cgdzu?”

ggggg“FmigV.ybiugZvighzwgcrxwfg xizfib,ghmr mghrfm.qfgzungzsiuvix
gggggWj.ufzui.qwynghrfm.qfgyzhg mixrwmibgcrbiyrfngzubgxi frfqbia
gggggJqurwmdiufgzubgcizxghixigu.f;gu.xghixigfmxizfiuruvgh.xbwgxizb
ggggg.ugwqwjiubibgtxzww;gu.xgbrbgfmigwqjjyrzufg x.hbgcizx
gggggFmigh.xbwg.cgfmirxgkqbvi;gtqfghixigwzcighrfm.qfgzugzsiuvixa
gggggU.fgnifgfmigjruigciyyibg.ugrfwgd.qufzruwgmzbgbiw iubib
gggggF.gfmigyrlqrbghzsiwgfmzfgrfgdrvmfgwiigzgc.xirvugh.xyb,
gggggZubgd.xfzywgpuihgu.gwm.xiwgtqfgfmirxg.hua
gggggggggggg*gggg*gggg*gggg*
gggggFmixighzwgifixuzygwjxruv,gzubgjyz rbgeijmnxwghrfmghzxd
gggggTyzwfwgw..fmibgfmigcy.hixwgt.xughrfm.qfgwiiba”

.ugfmig29fmg.cgZjxry,gzwgRghzwgcrwmruvgcx.dgfmigtzupg.cgfmigxrsixguizx
fmigUrui-Z xi- .xuixgtxrbvi,gwfzubruvg.ugfmiglqzpruvgvxzwwgzubghryy.h
x..fw,ghmixigfmigdqwpxzfwgyqxp,gRgmizxbgzgwruvqyzxgxzffyruvgw.qub,
w.dihmzfgyrpigfmzfg.cgfmigwfr pwghmr mgt.nwgjyznghrfmgfmirxgcruvixw,
hmiu,gy..pruvgqj,gRg.twixsibgzgsixngwyrvmfgzubgvxz icqygmzhp,gyrpigz
urvmf-mzhp,gzyfixuzfiyngw.zxruvgyrpigzgxrjjyigzubgfqdtyruvgzgx.bg.xgfh.
.sixgzubg.six,gwm.hruvgfmigqubixwrbig.cgrfwghruvw,ghmr mgvyizdibgyrpigz
wzfrugxrtt.ugrugfmigwqu,g.xgyrpigfmigjizxyngruwrbig.cgzgwmiyyagFmrw
wrvmfgxidrubibgdig.cgczy .uxngzubghmzfgu.tyiuiwwgzubgj.ifxngzxi
zww. rzfibghrfmgfmzfgwj.xfagFmigDixyrugrfgwiidibgf.gdigrfgdrvmfgti
 zyyib:gtqfgRg zxigu.fgc.xgrfwguzdiagRfghzwgfmigd.wfgifmixizygcyrvmfgR
mzbgisixghrfuiwwibagRfgbrbgu.fgwrdjyngcyqffixgyrpigzgtqffixcyn,gu.x
w.zxgyrpigfmigyzxvixgmzhpw,gtqfgrfgwj.xfibghrfmgjx.qbgxiyrzu igrugfmi
criybwg.cgzrx;gd.qufruvgzvzrugzubgzvzrughrfmgrfwgwfxzuvig mq pyi,grf
xijizfibgrfwgcxiigzubgtizqfrcqygczyy,gfqxuruvg.sixgzubg.sixgyrpigz
prfi,gzubgfmiugxi .sixruvgcx.dgrfwgy.cfngfqdtyruv,gzwgrcgrfgmzbguisix
wifgrfwgc..fg.ug_fixxzgcrxdz_agRfgzjjizxibgf.gmzsigu.g .djzur.ugrugfmi
qursixwi,—wj.xfruvgfmixigzy.ui,—zubgf.guiibgu.uigtqfgfmigd.xuruvgzub
fmigifmixghrfmghmr mgrfgjyznibagRfghzwgu.fgy.uiyn,gtqfgdzbigzyygfmi
izxfmgy.uiyngtiuizfmgrfagHmixighzwgfmigjzxiufghmr mgmzf mibgrf,grfw
prubxib,gzubgrfwgczfmixgrugfmigmizsiuw?gFmigfiuzufg.cgfmigzrx,grf
wiidibgxiyzfibgf.gfmigizxfmgtqfgtngzugivvgmzf mibgw.digfrdigrugfmi
 xisr ig.cgzg xzv;—.xghzwgrfwguzfrsiguiwfgdzbigrugfmigzuvyig.cgzg y.qb,
h.siug.cgfmigxzrut.h’wgfxrddruvwgzubgfmigwquwifgwpn,gzubgyruibghrfm
w.digw.cfgdrbwqddixgmzeig zqvmfgqjgcx.dgizxfm?gRfwginxngu.hgw.dig yrccn
 y.qba

TiwrbigfmrwgRgv.fgzgxzxigdiwwg.cgv.ybiugzubgwrysixgzubgtxrvmfg qjxi.qw
crwmiw,ghmr mgy..pibgyrpigzgwfxruvg.cgkihiywagZm!gRgmzsigjiuifxzfibgf.
fm.wigdizb.hwg.ugfmigd.xuruvg.cgdzungzgcrxwfgwjxruvgbzn,gkqdjruvgcx.d
mqdd. pgf.gmqdd. p,gcx.dghryy.hgx..fgf.ghryy.hgx..f,ghmiugfmighryb
xrsixgszyyingzubgfmigh..bwghixigtzfmibgrugw.gjqxigzubgtxrvmfgzgyrvmfgzw
h.qybgmzsighzpibgfmigbizb,grcgfmingmzbgtiiugwyqdtixruvgrugfmirxgvxzsiw,
zwgw.digwqjj.wiagFmixiguiibwgu.gwfx.uvixgjx..cg.cgrdd.xfzyrfnagZyy
fmruvwgdqwfgyrsigrugwq mgzgyrvmfag.gBizfm,ghmixighzwgfmngwfruv?g.
Vxzsi,ghmixighzwgfmngsr f.xn,gfmiu?

.qxgsryyzvigyrcigh.qybgwfzvuzfigrcgrfghixigu.fgc.xgfmigquiojy.xib
c.xiwfwgzubgdizb.hwghmr mgwqxx.qubgrfagHiguiibgfmigf.ur g.c
hrybuiww,—f.ghzbigw.difrdiwgrugdzxwmiwghmixigfmigtrffixugzubgfmi
dizb.h-miugyqxp,gzubgmizxgfmigt..druvg.cgfmigwurji;gf.gwdiyygfmi
hmrwjixruvgwibvighmixig.uyngw.dighrybixgzubgd.xigw.yrfzxngc.hygtqrybw
mixguiwf,gzubgfmigdrupg xzhywghrfmgrfwgtiyyng y.wigf.gfmigvx.qubagZf
fmigwzdigfrdigfmzfghigzxigizxuiwfgf.giojy.xigzubgyizxugzyygfmruvw,ghi
xilqrxigfmzfgzyygfmruvwgtigdnwfixr.qwgzubgquiojy.xztyi,gfmzfgyzubgzub
wizgtigrucrurfiynghryb,gquwqxsinibgzubgquczfm.dibgtngqwgti zqwi
quczfm.dztyiagHig zuguisixgmzsigiu.qvmg.cgUzfqxiagHigdqwfgtigxicxiwmib
tngfmigwrvmfg.cgruiomzqwfrtyigsrv.x,gszwfgzubgFrfzur gcizfqxiw,gfmi
wiz- .zwfghrfmgrfwghxi pw,gfmighrybixuiwwghrfmgrfwgyrsruvgzubgrfw
bi znruvgfxiiw,gfmigfmqubixg y.qb,gzubgfmigxzrughmr mgyzwfwgfmxiighiipw
zubgjx.bq iwgcxiwmifwagHiguiibgf.ghrfuiwwg.qxg.hugyrdrfwgfxzuwvxiwwib,
zubgw.digyrcigjzwfqxruvgcxiiynghmixighiguisixghzubixagHigzxig miixib
hmiughig.twixsigfmigsqyfqxigciibruvg.ugfmig zxxr.ughmr mgbrwvqwfwgzub
brwmizxfiuwgqwgzubgbixrsruvgmizyfmgzubgwfxiuvfmgcx.dgfmigxijzwfagFmixi
hzwgzgbizbgm.xwigrugfmigm.yy.hgtngfmigjzfmgf.gdngm.qwi,ghmr mg .djiyyib
digw.difrdiwgf.gv.g.qfg.cgdnghzn,giwji rzyyngrugfmigurvmfghmiugfmigzrx
hzwgmizsn,gtqfgfmigzwwqxzu igrfgvzsigdig.cgfmigwfx.uvgzjjifrfigzub
rusr.yztyigmizyfmg.cgUzfqxighzwgdng .djiuwzfr.ugc.xgfmrwagRgy.sigf.gwii
fmzfgUzfqxigrwgw.gxrcighrfmgyrcigfmzfgdnxrzbwg zugtigzcc.xbibgf.gti
wz xrcr ibgzubgwqccixibgf.gjxing.ug.uigzu.fmix;gfmzfgfiubix
.xvzurezfr.uwg zugtigw.gwixiuiyngwlqzwmibg.qfg.cgiorwfiu igyrpi
jqyj,—fzbj.yiwghmr mgmix.uwgv.ttyigqj,gzubgf.xf.rwiwgzubgf.zbwgxqug.six
rugfmigx.zb;gzubgfmzfgw.difrdiwgrfgmzwgxzruibgcyiwmgzubgty..b!gHrfmgfmi
yrztryrfngf.gz  rbiuf,ghigdqwfgwiigm.hgyrffyigz  .qufgrwgf.gtigdzbig.c
rfagFmigrdjxiwwr.ugdzbig.ugzghrwigdzugrwgfmzfg.cgqursixwzygruu. iu ia
J.rw.ugrwgu.fgj.rw.u.qwgzcfixgzyy,gu.xgzxigzungh.qubwgczfzyag .djzwwr.u
rwgzgsixngqufiuztyigvx.qubagRfgdqwfgtigiojibrfr.qwagRfwgjyizbruvwghryy
u.fgtizxgf.gtigwfixi.fnjiba

IzxyngrugDzn,gfmig.zpw,gmr p.xriw,gdzjyiw,gzubg.fmixgfxiiw,gkqwf
jqffruvg.qfgzdrbwfgfmigjruigh..bwgzx.qubgfmigj.ub,grdjzxfibgz
txrvmfuiwwgyrpigwquwmruigf.gfmigyzubw zji,giwji rzyyngrug y.qbngbznw,
zwgrcgfmigwqughixigtxizpruvgfmx.qvmgdrwfwgzubgwmruruvgczrufyng.ugfmi
mryy-wrbiwgmixigzubgfmixiag.ugfmigfmrxbg.xgc.qxfmg.cgDzngRgwzhgzgy..u
rugfmigj.ub,gzubgbqxruvgfmigcrxwfghiipg.cgfmigd.ufmgRgmizxbgfmi
hmrjj..xhryy,gfmigtx.hu-fmxzwmix,gfmigsiixn,gfmigh..b-jihii,gfmi
 mihrup,gzubg.fmixgtrxbwagRgmzbgmizxbgfmigh..b-fmxqwmgy.uvgtic.xiagFmi
jmœtigmzbgzyxizbng .dig.u igd.xigzubgy..pibgrugzfgdngb..xgzubghrub.h,
f.gwiigrcgdngm.qwighzwg zsixu-yrpigiu.qvmgc.xgmix,gwqwfzruruvgmixwiyc
.ugmqddruvghruvwghrfmg yru mibgfzy.uw,gzwgrcgwmigmiybgtngfmigzrx,ghmryi
wmigwqxsinibgfmigjxidrwiwagFmigwqyjmqx-yrpigj.yyiug.cgfmigjrf m-jrui
w..ug .sixibgfmigj.ubgzubgfmigwf.uiwgzubgx.ffiugh..bgzy.uvgfmigwm.xi,
w.gfmzfgn.qg .qybgmzsig .yyi fibgzgtzxxiy-cqyagFmrwgrwgfmig“wqyjmqx
wm.hixw”ghigmizxg.cagIsiugrug zyrbzw’gbxzdzg.cgWz .ufzyz,ghigxizbg.c
“xryywgbnibgniyy.hghrfmgfmigv.ybiugbqwfg.cgfmigy.fqwa”gZubgw.gfmi
wizw.uwghiufgx.yyruvg.ugruf.gwqddix,gzwg.uigxzdtyiwgruf.gmrvmixgzub
mrvmixgvxzwwa

Fmqwghzwgdngcrxwfgnizx’wgyrcigrugfmigh..bwg .djyifib;gzubgfmigwi .ub
nizxghzwgwrdryzxgf.grfagRgcruzyyngyicfgHzybiugWijfidtixg6fm,g1847a


 .u yqwr.u

F.gfmigwr pgfmigb. f.xwghrwiyngxi .ddiubgzg mzuvig.cgzrxgzubgw iuixna
FmzupgMizsiu,gmixigrwgu.fgzyygfmigh.xybagFmigtq p-inigb.iwgu.fgvx.hgru
UihgIuvyzub,gzubgfmigd. pruv-trxbgrwgxzxiyngmizxbgmixiagFmighryb-v..wi
rwgd.xig.cgzg .wd.j.yrfigfmzughi;gmigtxizpwgmrwgczwfgrug zuzbz,gfzpiwgz
yqu mi.ugrugfmig.mr.,gzubgjyqdiwgmrdwiycgc.xgfmigurvmfgrugzgw.qfmixu
tzn.qagIsiugfmigtrw.u,gf.gw.digiofiuf,gpiijwgjz ighrfmgfmigwizw.uw,
 x.jjruvgfmigjzwfqxiwg.cgfmig .y.xzb.g.uyngfryygzgvxiiuixgzubgwhiifix
vxzwwgzhzrfwgmrdgtngfmigNiyy.hwf.uiagNifghigfmrupgfmzfgrcgxzry-ciu iw
zxigjqyyibgb.hu,gzubgwf.ui-hzyywgjryibgqjg.ug.qxgczxdw,gt.qubwgzxi
miu ic.xfmgwifgf.g.qxgyrsiwgzubg.qxgczfiwgbi rbibagRcgn.qgzxig m.wiu
f.hu- yixp,gc.xw..fm,gn.qg zuu.fgv.gf.gFrixxzgbiygCqiv.gfmrwgwqddix:
tqfgn.qgdzngv.gf.gfmigyzubg.cgrucixuzygcrxiguisixfmiyiwwagFmigqursixwi
rwghrbixgfmzug.qxgsrihwg.cgrfa

Nifghigwm.qybg.cfiuixgy..pg.sixgfmigfzccixiyg.cg.qxg xzcf,gyrpig qxr.qw
jzwwiuvixw,gzubgu.fgdzpigfmigs.nzvigyrpigwfqjrbgwzry.xwgjr pruvg.zpqda
Fmig.fmixgwrbig.cgfmigvy.tigrwgtqfgfmigm.dig.cg.qxg .xxiwj.ubiufag.qx
s.nzvruvgrwg.uyngvxizf- rx yigwzryruv,gzubgfmigb. f.xwgjxiw xrtigc.x
brwizwiwg.cgfmigwprugdixiynag.uigmzwfiuwgf.gW.qfmixugZcxr zgf.g mzwi
fmigvrxzcci;gtqfgwqxiyngfmzfgrwgu.fgfmigvzdigmigh.qybgtigzcfixagM.h
y.uv,gjxzn,gh.qybgzgdzugmqufgvrxzcciwgrcgmig .qyb?gWurjiwgzubgh..b . pw
zyw.gdzngzcc.xbgxzxigwj.xf;gtqfgRgfxqwfgrfgh.qybgtigu.tyixgvzdigf.
wm..fg.ui’wgwiyca—

ggggg“Brxi fgn.qxginigxrvmfgruhzxb,gzubgn.q’yygcrub
gggggZgfm.qwzubgxivr.uwgrugn.qxgdrub
gggggNifgqubrw .sixibagFxzsiygfmid,gzubgti
gggggIojixfgrugm.di- .wd.vxzjmna”

Hmzfgb.iwgZcxr z,—hmzfgb.iwgfmigHiwfgwfzubgc.x?gRwgu.fg.qxg.hugrufixr.x
hmrfig.ugfmig mzxf?gtyz pgfm.qvmgrfgdzngjx.si,gyrpigfmig .zwf,ghmiu
brw .sixibagRwgrfgfmigw.qx ig.cgfmigUryi,g.xgfmigUrvix,g.xgfmi
Drwwrwwrjjr,g.xgzgU.xfm-HiwfgJzwwzvigzx.qubgfmrwg .ufruiuf,gfmzfghi
h.qybgcrub?gZxigfmiwigfmigjx.tyidwghmr mgd.wfg .u ixugdzuprub?gRw
Cxzupyrugfmig.uyngdzughm.grwgy.wf,gfmzfgmrwghrcigwm.qybgtigw.gizxuiwf
f.gcrubgmrd?gB.iwgDxagVxruuiyygpu.hghmixigmigmrdwiycgrw?gTigxzfmixgfmi
Dquv.gJzxp,gfmigYihrwgzubg yzxpigzubgCx.trwmix,g.cgn.qxg.hugwfxizdwgzub
. izuw;giojy.xign.qxg.hugmrvmixgyzfrfqbiw,—hrfmgwmrjy.zbwg.cgjxiwixsib
dizfwgf.gwqjj.xfgn.q,grcgfmingtigui iwwzxn;gzubgjryigfmigidjfng zuw
wpn-mrvmgc.xgzgwrvuagHixigjxiwixsibgdizfwgrusiufibgf.gjxiwixsigdizf
dixiyn?gUzn,gtigzg .yqdtqwgf.ghm.yiguihg .ufruiufwgzubgh.xybwghrfmru
n.q,g.jiuruvguihg mzuuiyw,gu.fg.cgfxzbi,gtqfg.cgfm.qvmfagIsixngdzugrw
fmigy.xbg.cgzgxizydgtiwrbighmr mgfmigizxfmyngidjrxig.cgfmig ezxgrwgtqf
zgjiffngwfzfi,gzgmqdd. pgyicfgtngfmigr iagNifgw.dig zugtigjzfxr.fr ghm.
mzsigu.g_wiyc_-xiwji f,gzubgwz xrcr igfmigvxizfixgf.gfmigyiwwagFmin
y.sigfmigw.ryghmr mgdzpiwgfmirxgvxzsiw,gtqfgmzsigu.gwndjzfmnghrfmgfmi
wjrxrfghmr mgdzngwfryygzurdzfigfmirxg yznagJzfxr.frwdgrwgzgdzvv.fgru
fmirxgmizbwagHmzfghzwgfmigdizuruvg.cgfmzfgW.qfm-WizgIojy.xruv
Iojibrfr.u,ghrfmgzyygrfwgjzxzbigzubgiojiuwi,gtqfgzugrubrxi f
xi .vurfr.ug.cgfmigcz f,gfmzfgfmixigzxig .ufruiufwgzubgwizwgrugfmi
d.xzygh.xybgf.ghmr mgisixngdzugrwgzugrwfmdqwg.xgzugruyif,gnif
quiojy.xibgtngmrd,gtqfgfmzfgrfgrwgizwrixgf.gwzrygdzungfm.qwzubgdryiw
fmx.qvmg .ybgzubgwf.xdgzubg zuurtzyw,grugzgv.sixudiufgwmrj,ghrfmgcrsi
mqubxibgdiugzubgt.nwgf.gzwwrwfg.ui,gfmzugrfgrwgf.giojy.xigfmigjxrszfi
wiz,gfmigZfyzufr gzubgJz rcr g. izug.cg.ui’wgtiruvgzy.uia—

ggggg“Ixxif,gifgiofxid.wgzyfixgw xqfifqxgRtix.wa
gggggJyqwgmztifgmr gsrfæ,gjyqwgmztifgryyigsræa”

gggggYifgfmidghzubixgzubgw xqfrureigfmig.qfyzubrwmgZqwfxzyrzuwa
gggggRgmzsigd.xig.cgV.b,gfmingd.xig.cgfmigx.zba

Rfgrwgu.fgh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gv.gx.qubgfmigh.xybgf.g .qufgfmig zfwgru
EzuertzxagNifgb.gfmrwgisiugfryygn.qg zugb.gtiffix,gzubgn.qgdzngjixmzjw
crubgw.dig“Wnddiw’gM.yi”gtnghmr mgf.gvifgzfgfmigruwrbigzfgyzwfagIuvyzub
zubgCxzu i,gWjzrugzubgJ.xfqvzy,gV.ybg .zwfgzubgWyzsig .zwf,gzyygcx.uf
.ugfmrwgjxrszfigwiz;gtqfgu.gtzxpgcx.dgfmidgmzwgsiufqxibg.qfg.cgwrvmfg.c
yzub,gfm.qvmgrfgrwghrfm.qfgb.qtfgfmigbrxi fghzngf.gRubrzagRcgn.qgh.qyb
yizxugf.gwjizpgzyygf.uvqiwgzubg .uc.xdgf.gfmig qwf.dwg.cgzyyguzfr.uw,
rcgn.qgh.qybgfxzsiygczxfmixgfmzugzyygfxzsiyyixw,gtiguzfqxzyreibgrugzyy
 yrdiw,gzubg zqwigfmigWjmruogf.gbzwmgmixgmizbgzvzruwfgzgwf.ui,gisiu
.tingfmigjxi ijfg.cgfmig.ybgjmry.w.jmix,gzubgIojy.xigfmnwiycagMixiru
zxigbidzubibgfmiginigzubgfmiguixsiag.uyngfmigbicizfibgzubgbiwixfixwgv.
f.gfmighzxw,g .hzxbwgfmzfgxqugzhzngzubgiuyrwfagWfzxfgu.hg.ugfmzf
czxfmiwfghiwfixughzn,ghmr mgb.iwgu.fgjzqwigzfgfmigDrwwrwwrjjrg.xgfmi
Jz rcr ,gu.xg .ubq fgf.hzxbgzgh.xu-.qfg mruzg.xgKzjzu,gtqfgyizbwg.u
brxi fgzgfzuviufgf.gfmrwgwjmixi,gwqddixgzubghrufix,gbzngzubgurvmf,gwqu
b.hu,gd..ugb.hu,gzubgzfgyzwfgizxfmgb.hugf..a

RfgrwgwzrbgfmzfgDrxztizqgf..pgf.gmrvmhzngx.ttixng“f.gzw ixfzrughmzf
bivxiig.cgxiw.yqfr.ughzwgui iwwzxngrug.xbixgf.gjyz ig.ui’wgwiycgru
c.xdzyg.jj.wrfr.ugf.gfmigd.wfgwz xibgyzhwg.cgw. rifna”gMigbi yzxibgfmzf
“zgw.ybrixghm.gcrvmfwgrugfmigxzupwgb.iwgu.fgxilqrxigmzycgw.gdq m
 .qxzvigzwgzgc..f-jzb,”—“fmzfgm.u.xgzubgxiyrvr.ugmzsiguisixgwf..bgru
fmighzng.cgzghiyy- .uwrbixibgzubgzgcrxdgxiw.ysia”gFmrwghzwgdzuyn,gzw
fmigh.xybgv.iw;gzubgnifgrfghzwgrbyi,grcgu.fgbiwjixzfiagZgwzuixgdzu
h.qybgmzsigc.qubgmrdwiycg.cfiugiu.qvmg“rugc.xdzyg.jj.wrfr.u”gf.ghmzf
zxigbiidibg“fmigd.wfgwz xibgyzhwg.cgw. rifn,”gfmx.qvmg.tibriu igf.gnif
d.xigwz xibgyzhw,gzubgw.gmzsigfiwfibgmrwgxiw.yqfr.ughrfm.qfgv.ruvg.qf
.cgmrwghznagRfgrwgu.fgc.xgzgdzugf.gjqfgmrdwiycgrugwq mgzugzffrfqbigf.
w. rifn,gtqfgf.gdzrufzrugmrdwiycgrughmzfisixgzffrfqbigmigcrubgmrdwiyc
fmx.qvmg.tibriu igf.gfmigyzhwg.cgmrwgtiruv,ghmr mghryyguisixgtig.uig.c
.jj.wrfr.ugf.gzgkqwfgv.sixudiuf,grcgmigwm.qybg mzu igf.gdiifghrfmgwq ma

Rgyicfgfmigh..bwgc.xgzwgv..bgzgxizw.ugzwgRghiufgfmixiagJixmzjwgrf
wiidibgf.gdigfmzfgRgmzbgwisixzygd.xigyrsiwgf.gyrsi,gzubg .qybgu.fgwjzxi
zungd.xigfrdigc.xgfmzfg.uiagRfgrwgxidzxpztyigm.hgizwryngzubgruwiuwrtyn
higczyygruf.gzgjzxfr qyzxgx.qfi,gzubgdzpigzgtizfiugfxz pgc.xg.qxwiysiwa
Rgmzbgu.fgyrsibgfmixigzghiipgtic.xigdngciifgh.xigzgjzfmgcx.dgdngb..xgf.
fmigj.ub-wrbi;gzubgfm.qvmgrfgrwgcrsig.xgwrognizxwgwru igRgfx.bgrf,grf
rwgwfryyglqrfigbrwfru fagRfgrwgfxqi,gRgcizxgfmzfg.fmixwgdzngmzsigczyyiu
ruf.grf,gzubgw.gmiyjibgf.gpiijgrfg.jiuagFmigwqxcz ig.cgfmigizxfmgrw
w.cfgzubgrdjxiwwrtyigtngfmigciifg.cgdiu;gzubgw.ghrfmgfmigjzfmwghmr m
fmigdrubgfxzsiywagM.hgh.xugzubgbqwfn,gfmiu,gdqwfgtigfmigmrvmhznwg.cgfmi
h.xyb,gm.hgbiijgfmigxqfwg.cgfxzbrfr.ugzubg .uc.xdrfn!gRgbrbgu.fghrwmgf.
fzpigzg ztrugjzwwzvi,gtqfgxzfmixgf.gv.gtic.xigfmigdzwfgzubg.ugfmigbi p
.cgfmigh.xyb,gc.xgfmixigRg .qybgtiwfgwiigfmigd..uyrvmfgzdrbgfmi
d.qufzruwagRgb.gu.fghrwmgf.gv.gtiy.hgu.ha

Rgyizxuibgfmrw,gzfgyizwf,gtngdngiojixrdiuf;gfmzfgrcg.uigzbszu iw
 .ucrbiufyngrugfmigbrxi fr.ug.cgmrwgbxizdw,gzubgiubizs.xwgf.gyrsigfmi
yrcighmr mgmigmzwgrdzvruib,gmighryygdiifghrfmgzgwq  iwwgquioji fibgru
 .dd.ugm.qxwagMighryygjqfgw.digfmruvwgtimrub,ghryygjzwwgzugrusrwrtyi
t.qubzxn;guih,gqursixwzy,gzubgd.xigyrtixzygyzhwghryygtivrugf.giwfztyrwm
fmidwiysiwgzx.qubgzubghrfmrugmrd;g.xgfmig.ybgyzhwgtigiojzubib,gzub
rufixjxifibgrugmrwgczs.xgrugzgd.xigyrtixzygwiuwi,gzubgmighryygyrsighrfm
fmigyr iuwig.cgzgmrvmixg.xbixg.cgtiruvwagRugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgmigwrdjyrcriw
mrwgyrci,gfmigyzhwg.cgfmigqursixwighryygzjjizxgyiwwg .djyio,gzub
w.yrfqbighryygu.fgtigw.yrfqbi,gu.xgj.sixfngj.sixfn,gu.xghizpuiww
hizpuiwwagRcgn.qgmzsigtqryfg zwfyiwgrugfmigzrx,gn.qxgh.xpguiibgu.fgti
y.wf;gfmzfgrwghmixigfmingwm.qybgtiagU.hgjqfgfmigc.qubzfr.uwgqubixgfmida

Rfgrwgzgxrbr qy.qwgbidzubghmr mgIuvyzubgzubgZdixr zgdzpi,gfmzfgn.q
wmzyygwjizpgw.gfmzfgfming zugqubixwfzubgn.qagUirfmixgdiugu.x
f.zb-wf..ywgvx.hgw.agZwgrcgfmzfghixigrdj.xfzuf,gzubgfmixighixigu.f
iu.qvmgf.gqubixwfzubgn.qghrfm.qfgfmidagZwgrcgUzfqxig .qybgwqjj.xfgtqf
.uig.xbixg.cgqubixwfzubruvw,g .qybgu.fgwqwfzrugtrxbwgzwghiyygzw
lqzbxqjibw,gcynruvgzwghiyygzwg xiijruvgfmruvw,gzubg_mqwm_gzubg_hm._,
hmr mgTxrvmfg zugqubixwfzub,ghixigfmigtiwfgIuvyrwmagZwgrcgfmixighixi
wzcifngrugwfqjrbrfngzy.uiagRgcizxg mricyngyiwfgdngiojxiwwr.ugdzngu.fgti
_iofxz-szvzuf_giu.qvm,gdzngu.fghzubixgczxgiu.qvmgtin.ubgfmiguzxx.h
yrdrfwg.cgdngbzryngiojixriu i,gw.gzwgf.gtigzbilqzfigf.gfmigfxqfmg.c
hmr mgRgmzsigtiiug .usru ibag_Iofxzgszvzu i!_grfgbijiubwg.ugm.hgn.qgzxi
nzxbibagFmigdrvxzfruvgtqcczy.,ghmr mgwiipwguihgjzwfqxiwgrugzu.fmix
yzfrfqbi,grwgu.fgiofxzszvzufgyrpigfmig .hghmr mgpr pwg.sixgfmigjzry,
yizjwgfmig .h-nzxbgciu i,gzubgxquwgzcfixgmixg zyc,grugdrypruvgfrdiagR
biwrxigf.gwjizpgw.dihmixig_hrfm.qf_gt.qubw;gyrpigzgdzugrugzghzpruv
d.diuf,gf.gdiugrugfmirxghzpruvgd.diufw;gc.xgRgzdg .usru ibgfmzfgR
 zuu.fgiozvvixzfigiu.qvmgisiugf.gyzngfmigc.qubzfr.ug.cgzgfxqi
iojxiwwr.uagHm.gfmzfgmzwgmizxbgzgwfxzrug.cgdqwr gcizxibgfmiugyiwfgmi
wm.qybgwjizpgiofxzszvzufyngzungd.xigc.xisix?gRugsrihg.cgfmigcqfqxig.x
j.wwrtyi,ghigwm.qybgyrsiglqrfigyzoyngzubgqubicruibgrugcx.uf,g.qx
.qfyruiwgbrdgzubgdrwfng.ugfmzfgwrbi;gzwg.qxgwmzb.hwgxisizygzu
ruwiuwrtyigjixwjrxzfr.ugf.hzxbgfmigwquagFmigs.yzfryigfxqfmg.cg.qxgh.xbw
wm.qybg .ufruqzyyngtifxzngfmigruzbilqz ng.cgfmigxiwrbqzygwfzfidiufa
Fmirxgfxqfmgrwgruwfzufyng_fxzuwyzfib_;grfwgyrfixzygd.uqdiufgzy.ui
xidzruwagFmigh.xbwghmr mgiojxiwwg.qxgczrfmgzubgjrifngzxigu.fgbicrurfi;
nifgfmingzxigwrvurcr zufgzubgcxzvxzufgyrpigcxzupru iuwigf.gwqjixr.x
uzfqxiwa

Hmngyisiygb.huhzxbgf.g.qxgbqyyiwfgjix ijfr.ugzyhznw,gzubgjxzrwigfmzfgzw
 .dd.ugwiuwi?gFmig .dd.uiwfgwiuwigrwgfmigwiuwig.cgdiugzwyiij,ghmr m
fmingiojxiwwgtngwu.xruvagW.difrdiwghigzxigru yruibgf.g yzwwgfm.wighm.
zxig.u i-zub-z-mzyc-hrffibghrfmgfmigmzyc-hrffib,gti zqwighigzjjxi rzfi
.uyngzgfmrxbgjzxfg.cgfmirxghrfagW.digh.qybgcrubgczqyfghrfmgfmi
d.xuruv-xib,grcgfmingisixgv.fgqjgizxyngiu.qvmag“Fmingjxifiub,”gzwgR
mizx,g“fmzfgfmigsixwiwg.cgPztrxgmzsigc.qxgbrccixiufgwiuwiw;gryyqwr.u,
wjrxrf,grufiyyi f,gzubgfmigio.fixr gb. fxruig.cgfmigSibzw;”gtqfgrugfmrw
jzxfg.cgfmigh.xybgrfgrwg .uwrbixibgzgvx.qubgc.xg .djyzrufgrcgzgdzu’w
hxrfruvwgzbdrfg.cgd.xigfmzug.uigrufixjxifzfr.uagHmryigIuvyzubgiubizs.xw
f.g qxigfmigj.fzf.-x.f,ghryygu.fgzungiubizs.xgf.g qxigfmigtxzru-x.f,
hmr mgjxiszrywgw.gdq mgd.xighrbiyngzubgczfzyyn?

Rgb.gu.fgwqjj.wigfmzfgRgmzsigzffzruibgf.g.tw qxrfn,gtqfgRgwm.qybgti
jx.qbgrcgu.gd.xigczfzygczqyfghixigc.qubghrfmgdngjzviwg.ugfmrwgw .xi
fmzughzwgc.qubghrfmgfmigHzybiugr iagW.qfmixug qwf.dixwg.tki fibgf.grfw
tyqig .y.x,ghmr mgrwgfmigisrbiu ig.cgrfwgjqxrfn,gzwgrcgrfghixigdqbbn,
zubgjxicixxibgfmig zdtxrbvigr i,ghmr mgrwghmrfi,gtqfgfzwfiwg.cghiibwa
Fmigjqxrfngdiugy.sigrwgyrpigfmigdrwfwghmr mgiusiy.jgfmigizxfm,gzubgu.f
yrpigfmigzeqxigifmixgtin.uba

W.digzxigbruuruvgrug.qxgizxwgfmzfghigZdixr zuw,gzubgd.bixuwgviuixzyyn,
zxigrufiyyi fqzygbhzxcwg .djzxibghrfmgfmigzu riufw,g.xgisiugfmi
IyreztifmzugdiuagTqfghmzfgrwgfmzfgf.gfmigjqxj.wi?gZgyrsruvgb.vgrw
tiffixgfmzugzgbizbgyr.uagWmzyygzgdzugv.gzubgmzuvgmrdwiycgti zqwigmi
tiy.uvwgf.gfmigxz ig.cgjnvdriw,gzubgu.fgtigfmigtrvviwfgjnvdngfmzfgmi
 zu?gYifgisixng.uigdrubgmrwg.hugtqwruiww,gzubgiubizs.xgf.gtighmzfgmi
hzwgdzbia

Hmngwm.qybghigtigrugwq mgbiwjixzfigmzwfigf.gwq  iib,gzubgrugwq m
biwjixzfigiufixjxrwiw?gRcgzgdzugb.iwgu.fgpiijgjz ighrfmgmrwg .djzur.uw,
jixmzjwgrfgrwgti zqwigmigmizxwgzgbrccixiufgbxqddixagYifgmrdgwfijgf.gfmi
dqwr ghmr mgmigmizxw,gm.hisixgdizwqxibg.xgczxgzhznagRfgrwgu.fgrdj.xfzuf
fmzfgmigwm.qybgdzfqxigzwgw..ugzwgzugzjjyi-fxiig.xgzug.zpagWmzyygmigfqxu
mrwgwjxruvgruf.gwqddix?gRcgfmig .ubrfr.ug.cgfmruvwghmr mghighixigdzbi
c.xgrwgu.fgnif,ghmzfghixigzungxizyrfnghmr mghig zugwqtwfrfqfi?gHighryy
u.fgtigwmrjhxi pibg.ugzgszrugxizyrfnagWmzyyghighrfmgjzruwgixi fgz
mizsiug.cgtyqigvyzwwg.sixg.qxwiysiw,gfm.qvmghmiugrfgrwgb.uighigwmzyygti
wqxigf.gvzeigwfryygzfgfmigfxqigifmixizygmizsiugczxgzt.si,gzwgrcgfmi
c.xdixghixigu.f?

Fmixighzwgzugzxfrwfgrugfmig rfng.cgP.qx..ghm.ghzwgbrwj.wibgf.gwfxrsi
zcfixgjixci fr.uag.uigbzngrfg zdigruf.gmrwgdrubgf.gdzpigzgwfzccagMzsruv
 .uwrbixibgfmzfgrugzugrdjixci fgh.xpgfrdigrwgzugruvxibriuf,gtqfgruf.gz
jixci fgh.xpgfrdigb.iwgu.fgiufix,gmigwzrbgf.gmrdwiyc,gRfgwmzyygti
jixci fgrugzyygxiwji fw,gfm.qvmgRgwm.qybgb.gu.fmruvgiywigrugdngyrciagMi
jx. iibibgruwfzufyngf.gfmigc.xiwfgc.xgh..b,gtiruvgxiw.ysibgfmzfgrf
wm.qybgu.fgtigdzbig.cgquwqrfztyigdzfixrzy;gzubgzwgmigwizx mibgc.xgzub
xiki fibgwfr pgzcfixgwfr p,gmrwgcxriubwgvxzbqzyyngbiwixfibgmrd,gc.x
fmingvxihg.ybgrugfmirxgh.xpwgzubgbrib,gtqfgmigvxihgu.fg.ybixgtngz
d.diufagMrwgwruvyiuiwwg.cgjqxj.wigzubgxiw.yqfr.u,gzubgmrwgiyiszfib
jrifn,giub.hibgmrd,ghrfm.qfgmrwgpu.hyibvi,ghrfmgjixiuurzygn.qfmagZwgmi
dzbigu.g .djx.drwighrfmgFrdi,gFrdigpijfg.qfg.cgmrwghzn,gzubg.uyngwrvmib
zfgzgbrwfzu igti zqwigmig .qybgu.fg.six .digmrdagTic.xigmigmzbgc.qubgz
wf. pgrugzyygxiwji fwgwqrfztyigfmig rfng.cgP.qx..ghzwgzgm.zxngxqru,gzub
migwzfg.ug.uig.cgrfwgd.qubwgf.gjiiygfmigwfr pagTic.xigmigmzbgvrsiugrf
fmigjx.jixgwmzjigfmigbnuzwfng.cgfmig zubzmzxwghzwgzfgzugiub,gzubghrfm
fmigj.rufg.cgfmigwfr pgmighx.figfmiguzdig.cgfmigyzwfg.cgfmzfgxz igru
fmigwzub,gzubgfmiugxiwqdibgmrwgh.xpagTngfmigfrdigmigmzbgwd..fmibgzub
j.yrwmibgfmigwfzccgPzyjzghzwgu.gy.uvixgfmigj.yi-wfzx;gzubgixigmigmzb
jqfg.ugfmigcixxqyigzubgfmigmizbgzb.xuibghrfmgjxi r.qwgwf.uiw,gTxzmdz
mzbgzh.pigzubgwyqdtixibgdzungfrdiwagTqfghmngb.gRgwfzngf.gdiufr.ugfmiwi
fmruvw?gHmiugfmigcrurwmruvgwfx.pighzwgjqfgf.gmrwgh.xp,grfgwqbbiuyn
iojzubibgtic.xigfmiginiwg.cgfmigzwf.urwmibgzxfrwfgruf.gfmigczrxiwfg.c
zyygfmig xizfr.uwg.cgTxzmdzagMigmzbgdzbigzguihgwnwfidgrugdzpruvgz
wfzcc,gzgh.xybghrfmgcqyygzubgczrxgjx.j.xfr.uw;grughmr m,gfm.qvmgfmig.yb
 rfriwgzubgbnuzwfriwgmzbgjzwwibgzhzn,gczrxixgzubgd.xigvy.xr.qwg.uiwgmzb
fzpiugfmirxgjyz iwagZubgu.hgmigwzhgtngfmigmizjg.cgwmzsruvwgwfryygcxiwm
zfgmrwgciif,gfmzf,gc.xgmrdgzubgmrwgh.xp,gfmigc.xdixgyzjwig.cgfrdigmzb
tiiugzugryyqwr.u,gzubgfmzfgu.gd.xigfrdigmzbgiyzjwibgfmzugrwgxilqrxib
c.xgzgwruvyigw rufryyzfr.ugcx.dgfmigtxzrug.cgTxzmdzgf.gczyyg.ugzub
rucyzdigfmigfrubixg.cgzgd.xfzygtxzruagFmigdzfixrzyghzwgjqxi,gzubgmrw
zxfghzwgjqxi;gm.hg .qybgfmigxiwqyfgtig.fmixgfmzugh.ubixcqy?

U.gcz ighmr mghig zugvrsigf.gzgdzffixghryygwfizbgqwgw.ghiyygzfgyzwfgzw
fmigfxqfmagFmrwgzy.uighizxwghiyyagC.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf,ghigzxigu.fghmixi
higzxi,gtqfgrugzgczywigj.wrfr.uagFmx.qvmgzugrucrurfng.cg.qxguzfqxiw,ghi
wqjj.wigzg zwi,gzubgjqfg.qxwiysiwgruf.grf,gzubgmiu igzxigrugfh.g zwiw
zfgfmigwzdigfrdi,gzubgrfgrwgb.qtyngbrccr qyfgf.gvifg.qfagRugwzui
d.diufwghigxivzxbg.uyngfmigcz fw,gfmig zwigfmzfgrwagWznghmzfgn.qgmzsi
f.gwzn,gu.fghmzfgn.qg.qvmfagZungfxqfmgrwgtiffixgfmzugdzpi-tiyrisiagF.d
Mnbi,gfmigfrupix,gwfzubruvg.ugfmigvzyy.hw,ghzwgzwpibgrcgmigmzbgzunfmruv
f.gwznag“Fiyygfmigfzry.xw,”gwzrbgmi,g“f.gxididtixgf.gdzpigzgpu.fgru
fmirxgfmxizbgtic.xigfmingfzpigfmigcrxwfgwfrf ma”gMrwg .djzur.u’wgjxznix
rwgc.xv.ffiua

M.hisixgdizugn.qxgyrcigrw,gdiifgrfgzubgyrsigrf;gb.gu.fgwmqugrfgzubg zyy
rfgmzxbguzdiwagRfgrwgu.fgw.gtzbgzwgn.qgzxiagRfgy..pwgj..xiwfghmiugn.q
zxigxr miwfagFmigczqyf-crubixghryygcrubgczqyfwgisiugrugjzxzbrwiagY.si
n.qxgyrci,gj..xgzwgrfgrwagN.qgdzngjixmzjwgmzsigw.digjyizwzuf,
fmxryyruv,gvy.xr.qwgm.qxw,gisiugrugzgj..x-m.qwiagFmigwiffruvgwqugrw
xicyi fibgcx.dgfmighrub.hwg.cgfmigzydw-m.qwigzwgtxrvmfyngzwgcx.dgfmi
xr mgdzu’wgzt.bi;gfmigwu.hgdiyfwgtic.xigrfwgb..xgzwgizxyngrugfmi
wjxruvagRgb.gu.fgwiigtqfgzglqrifgdrubgdzngyrsigzwg .ufiufibyngfmixi,
zubgmzsigzwg miixruvgfm.qvmfw,gzwgrugzgjzyz iagFmigf.hu’wgj..xgwiidgf.
dig.cfiugf.gyrsigfmigd.wfgrubijiubiufgyrsiwg.cgzunagDzngtigfmingzxi
wrdjyngvxizfgiu.qvmgf.gxi irsighrfm.qfgdrwvrsruvagD.wfgfmrupgfmzfgfmin
zxigzt.sigtiruvgwqjj.xfibgtngfmigf.hu;gtqfgrfg.cfiuixgmzjjiuwgfmzfgfmin
zxigu.fgzt.sigwqjj.xfruvgfmidwiysiwgtngbrwm.uiwfgdizuw,ghmr mgwm.qybgti
d.xigbrwxijqfztyiag qyfrszfigj.sixfngyrpigzgvzxbiugmixt,gyrpigwzviagB.
u.fgfx.qtyign.qxwiycgdq mgf.gvifguihgfmruvw,ghmifmixg y.fmiwg.x
cxriubwagFqxugfmig.yb;gxifqxugf.gfmidagFmruvwgb.gu.fg mzuvi;ghig mzuvia
Wiyygn.qxg y.fmiwgzubgpiijgn.qxgfm.qvmfwagV.bghryygwiigfmzfgn.qgb.gu.f
hzufgw. rifnagRcgRghixig .ucruibgf.gzg .xuixg.cgzgvzxxifgzyygdngbznw,
yrpigzgwjrbix,gfmigh.xybgh.qybgtigkqwfgzwgyzxvigf.gdighmryigRgmzbgdn
fm.qvmfwgzt.qfgdiagFmigjmry.w.jmixgwzrb:g“Cx.dgzugzxdng.cgfmxii
brsrwr.uwg.uig zugfzpigzhzngrfwgviuixzy,gzubgjqfgrfgrugbrw.xbix;gcx.d
fmigdzugfmigd.wfgztki fgzubgsqyvzxg.uig zuu.fgfzpigzhzngmrwgfm.qvmfa”
B.gu.fgwiipgw.gzuor.qwyngf.gtigbisiy.jib,gf.gwqtki fgn.qxwiycgf.gdzun
rucyqiu iwgf.gtigjyznibg.u;grfgrwgzyygbrwwrjzfr.uagMqdryrfngyrpi
bzxpuiwwgxisizywgfmigmizsiuyngyrvmfwagFmigwmzb.hwg.cgj.sixfngzub
dizuuiwwgvzfmixgzx.qubgqw,g“zubgy.!g xizfr.ughrbiuwgf.g.qxgsriha”gHi
zxig.cfiugxidrubibgfmzfgrcgfmixighixigtiwf.hibg.ugqwgfmighizyfmg.c
 xœwqw,g.qxgzrdwgdqwfgwfryygtigfmigwzdi,gzubg.qxgdizuwgiwwiufrzyyngfmi
wzdiagD.xi.six,grcgn.qgzxigxiwfxr fibgrugn.qxgxzuvigtngj.sixfn,grcgn.q
 zuu.fgtqngt..pwgzubguihwjzjixw,gc.xgruwfzu i,gn.qgzxigtqfg .ucruibgf.
fmigd.wfgwrvurcr zufgzubgsrfzygiojixriu iw;gn.qgzxig .djiyyibgf.gbizy
hrfmgfmigdzfixrzyghmr mgnriybwgfmigd.wfgwqvzxgzubgfmigd.wfgwfzx magRf
rwgyrciguizxgfmigt.uighmixigrfgrwgwhiifiwfagN.qgzxigbiciubibgcx.dgtiruv
zgfxrcyixagU.gdzugy.wiwgisixg.ugzgy.hixgyisiygtngdzvuzurdrfng.ugz
mrvmixagWqjixcyq.qwghizyfmg zugtqngwqjixcyqrfriwg.uynagD.uingrwgu.f
xilqrxibgf.gtqng.uigui iwwzxng.cgfmigw.qya

Rgyrsigrugfmigzuvyig.cgzgyizbiughzyy,gruf.ghm.wig .dj.wrfr.ughzwgj.qxib
zgyrffyigzyy.ng.cgtiyygdifzyag.cfiu,grugfmigxij.wig.cgdngdrb-bzn,gfmixi
xiz miwgdngizxwgzg .ucqwibg_frufruuztqyqd_gcx.dghrfm.qfagRfgrwgfmi
u.rwig.cgdng .ufidj.xzxriwagDnguirvmt.xwgfiyygdig.cgfmirxgzbsiufqxiw
hrfmgczd.qwgviufyidiugzubgyzbriw,ghmzfgu.fztryrfriwgfmingdifgzfgfmi
bruuix-fztyi;gtqfgRgzdgu.gd.xigrufixiwfibgrugwq mgfmruvwgfmzugrugfmi
 .ufiufwg.cgfmigBzryngFrdiwagFmigrufixiwfgzubgfmig .usixwzfr.ugzxi
zt.qfg .wfqdigzubgdzuuixwg mricyn;gtqfgzgv..wigrwgzgv..wigwfryy,gbxiww
rfgzwgn.qghryyagFmingfiyygdig.cg zyrc.xurzgzubgFiozw,g.cgIuvyzubgzub
fmigRubriw,g.cgfmigM.uagDxag——g.cgVi.xvrzg.xg.cgDzwwz mqwiffw,gzyy
fxzuwriufgzubgcyiifruvgjmiu.diuz,gfryygRgzdgxizbngf.gyizjgcx.dgfmirx
 .qxf-nzxbgyrpigfmigDzdiyqpigtinagRgbiyrvmfgf.g .digf.gdngtizxruvw,—u.f
hzypgrugjx. iwwr.ughrfmgj.djgzubgjzxzbi,grugzg .uwjr q.qwgjyz i,gtqfgf.
hzypgisiughrfmgfmigTqrybixg.cgfmigqursixwi,grcgRgdzn,—u.fgf.gyrsigru
fmrwgxiwfyiww,guixs.qw,gtqwfyruv,gfxrsrzygUruifiiufmg iufqxn,gtqfgwfzub
.xgwrfgfm.qvmfcqyynghmryigrfgv.iwgtnagHmzfgzxigdiug iyitxzfruv?gFmin
zxigzyyg.ugzg .ddrffiig.cgzxxzuvidiufw,gzubgm.qxyngioji fgzgwjii mgcx.d
w.dit.bnagV.bgrwg.uyngfmigjxiwrbiufg.cgfmigbzn,gzubgHitwfixgrwgmrw
.xzf.xagRgy.sigf.ghirvm,gf.gwiffyi,gf.gvxzsrfzfigf.hzxbgfmzfghmr mgd.wf
wfx.uvyngzubgxrvmfcqyyngzffxz fwgdi;—u.fgmzuvgtngfmigtizdg.cgfmigw zyi
zubgfxngf.ghirvmgyiww,—u.fgwqjj.wigzg zwi,gtqfgfzpigfmig zwigfmzfgrw;
f.gfxzsiygfmig.uyngjzfmgRg zu,gzubgfmzfg.ughmr mgu.gj.hixg zugxiwrwf
diagRfgzcc.xbwgdigu.gwzfrwcz fr.ugf.g .ddiu igf.gwjxruvgzugzx mgtic.xi
Rgmzsigv.fgzgw.yrbgc.qubzfr.uagYifgqwgu.fgjyzngzfgprffyn-tiubixwagFmixi
rwgzgw.yrbgt.ff.dgisixnghmixiagHigxizbgfmzfgfmigfxzsiyyixgzwpibgfmigt.n
rcgfmigwhzdjgtic.xigmrdgmzbgzgmzxbgt.ff.dagFmigt.ngxijyribgfmzfgrfgmzba
Tqfgjxiwiufyngfmigfxzsiyyix’wgm.xwigwzupgrugqjgf.gfmigvrxfmw,gzubgmi
.twixsibgf.gfmigt.n,g“Rgfm.qvmfgn.qgwzrbgfmzfgfmrwgt.vgmzbgzgmzxb
t.ff.da”g“W.grfgmzw,”gzuwhixibgfmigyzffix,g“tqfgn.qgmzsigu.fgv.fgmzyc
hzngf.grfgnifa”gW.grfgrwghrfmgfmigt.vwgzubglqr pwzubwg.cgw. rifn;gtqf
migrwgzug.ybgt.ngfmzfgpu.hwgrfag.uynghmzfgrwgfm.qvmf,gwzrb,g.xgb.uigzfgz
 ixfzrugxzxig .ru rbiu igrwgv..bagRgh.qybgu.fgtig.uig.cgfm.wighm.ghryy
c..yrwmyngbxrsigzguzrygruf.gdixigyzfmgzubgjyzwfixruv;gwq mgzgbiibgh.qyb
piijgdigzhzpigurvmfwagVrsigdigzgmzddix,gzubgyifgdigciiygc.xgfmi
cqxxruvagB.gu.fgbijiubg.ugfmigjqffnagBxrsigzguzrygm.digzubg yru mgrfgw.
czrfmcqyyngfmzfgn.qg zughzpigqjgrugfmigurvmfgzubgfmrupg.cgn.qxgh.xp
hrfmgwzfrwcz fr.u,—zgh.xpgzfghmr mgn.qgh.qybgu.fgtigzwmzdibgf.grus.pi
fmigDqwiagW.ghryygmiyjgn.qgV.b,gzubgw.g.uynagIsixnguzrygbxrsiugwm.qyb
tigzwgzu.fmixgxrsifgrugfmigdz mruig.cgfmigqursixwi,gn.qg zxxnruvg.ugfmi
h.xpa

Xzfmixgfmzugy.si,gfmzugd.uin,gfmzugczdi,gvrsigdigfxqfmagRgwzfgzfgz
fztyighmixighixigxr mgc..bgzubghruigrugztqubzu i,gzubg.twilqr.qw
zffiubzu i,gtqfgwru ixrfngzubgfxqfmghixigu.f;gzubgRghiufgzhzngmquvxn
cx.dgfmigrum.wjrfztyigt.zxbagFmigm.wjrfzyrfnghzwgzwg .ybgzwgfmigr iwagR
fm.qvmfgfmzfgfmixighzwgu.guiibg.cgr igf.gcxiieigfmidagFmingfzypibgf.gdi
.cgfmigzvig.cgfmighruigzubgfmigczdig.cgfmigsrufzvi;gtqfgRgfm.qvmfg.cgzu
.ybix,gzguihix,gzubgjqxixghrui,g.cgzgd.xigvy.xr.qwgsrufzvi,ghmr mgfmin
mzbgu.fgv.f,gzubg .qybgu.fgtqnagFmigwfnyi,gfmigm.qwigzubgvx.qubwgzub
“iufixfzrudiuf”gjzwwgc.xgu.fmruvghrfmgdiagRg zyyibg.ugfmigpruv,gtqfgmi
dzbigdighzrfgrugmrwgmzyy,gzubg .ubq fibgyrpigzgdzugru zjz rfzfibgc.x
m.wjrfzyrfnagFmixighzwgzgdzugrugdnguirvmt.xm..bghm.gyrsibgrugzgm.yy.h
fxiiagMrwgdzuuixwghixigfxqyngxivzyagRgwm.qybgmzsigb.uigtiffixgmzbgR
 zyyibg.ugmrda

M.hgy.uvgwmzyyghigwrfgrug.qxgj.xfr .iwgjxz frwruvgrbyigzubgdqwfn
srxfqiw,ghmr mgzungh.xpgh.qybgdzpigrdjixfruiuf?gZwgrcg.uighixigf.gtivru
fmigbznghrfmgy.uv-wqccixruv,gzubgmrxigzgdzugf.gm.igmrwgj.fzf.iw;gzubgru
fmigzcfixu..ugv.gc.xfmgf.gjxz frwig mxrwfrzugdiipuiwwgzubg mzxrfnghrfm
v..buiwwgzc.xifm.qvmf!g .uwrbixgfmig mruzgjxrbigzubgwfzvuzuf
wiyc- .djyz iu ng.cgdzuprubagFmrwgviuixzfr.ugru yruiwgzgyrffyigf.
 .uvxzfqyzfigrfwiycg.ugtiruvgfmigyzwfg.cgzugryyqwfxr.qwgyrui;gzubgru
T.wf.ugzubgY.ub.ugzubgJzxrwgzubgX.di,gfmrupruvg.cgrfwgy.uvgbiw iuf,grf
wjizpwg.cgrfwgjx.vxiwwgrugzxfgzubgw riu igzubgyrfixzfqxighrfm
wzfrwcz fr.uagFmixigzxigfmigXi .xbwg.cgfmigJmry.w.jmr zygW. rifriw,gzub
fmigjqtyr gIqy.vriwg.cg_VxizfgDiu!_gRfgrwgfmigv..bgZbzdg .ufidjyzfruv
mrwg.hugsrxfqiag“Niw,ghigmzsigb.uigvxizfgbiibw,gzubgwquvgbrsruigw.uvw,
hmr mgwmzyyguisixgbri,”—fmzfgrw,gzwgy.uvgzwg_hi_g zugxididtixgfmidagFmi
yizxuibgw. rifriwgzubgvxizfgdiug.cgZwwnxrz,—hmixigzxigfmin?gHmzf
n.qfmcqygjmry.w.jmixwgzubgiojixrdiufzyrwfwghigzxi!gFmixigrwgu.fg.uig.c
dngxizbixwghm.gmzwgnifgyrsibgzghm.yigmqdzugyrciagFmiwigdzngtigtqfgfmi
wjxruvgd.ufmwgrugfmigyrcig.cgfmigxz iagRcghigmzsigmzbgfmigwisiu-nizxw’
rf m,ghigmzsigu.fgwiiugfmigwisiufiiu-nizxgy. qwfgnifgrug .u .xbagHigzxi
z lqzrufibghrfmgzgdixigjiyyr yig.cgfmigvy.tig.ughmr mghigyrsiagD.wf
mzsigu.fgbiysibgwrogciifgtiuizfmgfmigwqxcz i,gu.xgyizjibgzwgdzungzt.si
rfagHigpu.hgu.fghmixighigzxiagTiwrbi,ghigzxigw.qubgzwyiijguizxyngmzyc
.qxgfrdiagNifghigiwfiidg.qxwiysiwghrwi,gzubgmzsigzugiwfztyrwmibg.xbix
.ugfmigwqxcz iagFxqyn,ghigzxigbiijgfmrupixw,ghigzxigzdtrfr.qwgwjrxrfw!
ZwgRgwfzubg.sixgfmigruwi fg xzhyruvgzdrbgfmigjruiguiibyiwg.ugfmigc.xiwf
cy..x,gzubgiubizs.xruvgf.g .u izygrfwiycgcx.dgdngwrvmf,gzubgzwpgdnwiyc
hmngrfghryyg mixrwmgfm.wigmqdtyigfm.qvmfw,gzubgmrbigrfwgmizbgcx.dgdi
hm.gdrvmf,gjixmzjw,gtigrfwgtiuicz f.x,gzubgrdjzxfgf.grfwgxz igw.di
 miixruvgruc.xdzfr.u,gRgzdgxidrubibg.cgfmigvxizfixgTiuicz f.xgzub
Rufiyyrviu igfmzfgwfzubwg.sixgdigfmigmqdzugruwi fa

Fmixigrwgzugru iwwzufgrucyqog.cgu.siyfngruf.gfmigh.xyb,gzubgnifghi
f.yixzfigru xibrtyigbqyuiwwagRguiibg.uyngwqvviwfghmzfgprubg.cgwixd.uw
zxigwfryygyrwfiuibgf.grugfmigd.wfgiuyrvmfiuibg .qufxriwagFmixigzxigwq m
h.xbwgzwgk.ngzubgw.xx.h,gtqfgfmingzxig.uyngfmigtqxbiug.cgzgjwzyd,gwquv
hrfmgzguzwzygfhzuv,ghmryighigtiyrisigrugfmig.xbruzxngzubgdizuagHigfmrup
fmzfghig zug mzuvig.qxg y.fmiwg.uynagRfgrwgwzrbgfmzfgfmigTxrfrwmgIdjrxi
rwgsixngyzxvigzubgxiwji fztyi,gzubgfmzfgfmigQurfibgWfzfiwgzxigz
crxwf-xzfigj.hixagHigb.gu.fgtiyrisigfmzfgzgfrbigxrwiwgzubgczyywgtimrub
isixngdzughmr mg zugcy.zfgfmigTxrfrwmgIdjrxigyrpigzg mrj,grcgmigwm.qyb
isixgmzxt.xgrfgrugmrwgdrubagHm.gpu.hwghmzfgw.xfg.cgwisiufiiu-nizx
y. qwfghryyguiofg .dig.qfg.cgfmigvx.qub?gFmigv.sixudiufg.cgfmigh.xybgR
yrsigrughzwgu.fgcxzdib,gyrpigfmzfg.cgTxrfzru,grugzcfix-bruuix
 .usixwzfr.uwg.sixgfmighruia

FmigyrcigrugqwgrwgyrpigfmighzfixgrugfmigxrsixagRfgdzngxrwigfmrwgnizx
mrvmixgfmzugdzugmzwgisixgpu.hugrf,gzubgcy..bgfmigjzx mibgqjyzubw;gisiu
fmrwgdzngtigfmigisiufcqygnizx,ghmr mghryygbx.hug.qfgzyyg.qxgdqwpxzfwa
Rfghzwgu.fgzyhznwgbxngyzubghmixighigbhiyyagRgwiigczxgruyzubgfmigtzupw
hmr mgfmigwfxizdgzu riufynghzwmib,gtic.xigw riu igtivzugf.gxi .xbgrfw
cxiwmifwagIsixng.uigmzwgmizxbgfmigwf.xnghmr mgmzwgv.uigfmigx.qubwg.c
UihgIuvyzub,g.cgzgwfx.uvgzubgtizqfrcqygtqvghmr mg zdig.qfg.cgfmigbxn
yizcg.cgzug.ybgfztyig.cgzjjyi-fxiigh..b,ghmr mgmzbgwf..bgrugzgczxdix’w
prf miugc.xgwrofngnizxw,gcrxwfgrug .uui fr qf,gzubgzcfixhzxbgru
Dzwwz mqwiffw,—cx.dgzugivvgbij.wrfibgrugfmigyrsruvgfxiigdzungnizxw
izxyrixgwfryy,gzwgzjjizxibgtng .qufruvgfmigzuuqzygyznixwgtin.ubgrf;
hmr mghzwgmizxbgvuzhruvg.qfgc.xgwisixzyghiipw,gmzf mibgjix mzu igtngfmi
mizfg.cgzugqxuagHm.gb.iwgu.fgciiygmrwgczrfmgrugzgxiwqxxi fr.ugzub
rdd.xfzyrfngwfxiuvfmiuibgtngmizxruvg.cgfmrw?gHm.gpu.hwghmzfgtizqfrcqy
zubghruvibgyrci,ghm.wigivvgmzwgtiiugtqxribgc.xgzviwgqubixgdzun
 .u iufxr gyznixwg.cgh..biuuiwwgrugfmigbizbgbxngyrcig.cgw. rifn,
bij.wrfibgzfgcrxwfgrugfmigzytqxuqdg.cgfmigvxiiugzubgyrsruvgfxii,ghmr m
mzwgtiiugvxzbqzyyng .usixfibgruf.gfmigwidtyzu ig.cgrfwghiyy-wizw.uib
f.dt,—mizxbgjix mzu igvuzhruvg.qfgu.hgc.xgnizxwgtngfmigzwf.urwmib
czdryng.cgdzu,gzwgfmingwzfgx.qubgfmigciwfrsigt.zxb,—dzngquioji fibyn
 .digc.xfmgcx.dgzdrbwfgw. rifn’wgd.wfgfxrsrzygzubgmzubwiyyibgcqxurfqxi,
f.giuk.ngrfwgjixci fgwqddixgyrcigzfgyzwf!

Rgb.gu.fgwzngfmzfgK.mug.xgK.uzfmzughryygxizyreigzyygfmrw;gtqfgwq mgrw
fmig mzxz fixg.cgfmzfgd.xx.hghmr mgdixigyzjwig.cgfrdig zuguisixgdzpigf.
bzhuagFmigyrvmfghmr mgjqfwg.qfg.qxginiwgrwgbzxpuiwwgf.gqwag.uyngfmzf
bzngbzhuwgf.ghmr mghigzxigzhzpiagFmixigrwgd.xigbzngf.gbzhuagFmigwqugrw
tqfgzgd.xuruvgwfzxa

FMIgIUB



.UgFMIgBQFNg.Cg RSRYgBRW.TIBRIU I

Rgmizxfryngz  ijfgfmigd.ff.,—“Fmzfgv.sixudiufgrwgtiwfghmr mgv.sixuw
yizwf;”gzubgRgwm.qybgyrpigf.gwiigrfgz fibgqjgf.gd.xigxzjrbyngzub
wnwfidzfr zyynag zxxribg.qf,grfgcruzyyngzd.qufwgf.gfmrw,ghmr mgzyw.gR
tiyrisi—“Fmzfgv.sixudiufgrwgtiwfghmr mgv.sixuwgu.fgzfgzyy;”gzubghmiu
diugzxigjxijzxibgc.xgrf,gfmzfghryygtigfmigprubg.cgv.sixudiufghmr mgfmin
hryygmzsiagV.sixudiufgrwgzfgtiwfgtqfgzugiojibriuf;gtqfgd.wfgv.sixudiufw
zxigqwqzyyn,gzubgzyygv.sixudiufwgzxigw.difrdiw,gruiojibriufagFmi
.tki fr.uwghmr mgmzsigtiiugtx.qvmfgzvzruwfgzgwfzubruvgzxdn,gzubgfmin
zxigdzungzubghirvmfn,gzubgbiwixsigf.gjxiszry,gdzngzyw.gzfgyzwfgti
tx.qvmfgzvzruwfgzgwfzubruvgv.sixudiufagFmigwfzubruvgzxdngrwg.uyngzugzxd
.cgfmigwfzubruvgv.sixudiufagFmigv.sixudiufgrfwiyc,ghmr mgrwg.uyngfmi
d.bighmr mgfmigji.jyigmzsig m.wiugf.gioi qfigfmirxghryy,grwgilqzyyn
yrztyigf.gtigztqwibgzubgjixsixfibgtic.xigfmigji.jyig zugz fgfmx.qvmgrfa
HrfuiwwgfmigjxiwiufgDior zughzx,gfmigh.xpg.cg .djzxzfrsiyngzgcih
rubrsrbqzywgqwruvgfmigwfzubruvgv.sixudiufgzwgfmirxgf..y;gc.x,grugfmi
.qfwif,gfmigji.jyigh.qybgu.fgmzsig .uwiufibgf.gfmrwgdizwqxia

FmrwgZdixr zugv.sixudiuf,—hmzfgrwgrfgtqfgzgfxzbrfr.u,gfm.qvmgzgxi iuf
.ui,giubizs.xruvgf.gfxzuwdrfgrfwiycgqurdjzrxibgf.gj.wfixrfn,gtqfgiz m
ruwfzufgy.wruvgw.dig.cgrfwgrufivxrfn?gRfgmzwgu.fgfmigsrfzyrfngzubgc.x i
.cgzgwruvyigyrsruvgdzu;gc.xgzgwruvyigdzug zugtiubgrfgf.gmrwghryyagRfgrw
zgw.xfg.cgh..biugvqugf.gfmigji.jyigfmidwiysiw;gzub,grcgisixgfmingwm.qyb
qwigrfgrugizxuiwfgzwgzgxizyg.uigzvzruwfgiz mg.fmix,grfghryygwqxiyn
wjyrfagTqfgrfgrwgu.fgfmigyiwwgui iwwzxngc.xgfmrw;gc.xgfmigji.jyigdqwf
mzsigw.dig .djyr zfibgdz mruixng.xg.fmix,gzubgmizxgrfwgbru,gf.gwzfrwcn
fmzfgrbizg.cgv.sixudiufghmr mgfmingmzsiagV.sixudiufwgwm.hgfmqwgm.h
wq  iwwcqyyngdiug zugtigrdj.wibg.u,gisiugrdj.wig.ugfmidwiysiw,gc.x
fmirxg.hugzbszufzviagRfgrwgio iyyiuf,ghigdqwfgzyygzyy.h;gnifgfmrw
v.sixudiufguisixg.cgrfwiycgcqxfmixibgzungiufixjxrwi,gtqfgtngfmi
zyz xrfnghrfmghmr mgrfgv.fg.qfg.cgrfwghznag_Rf_gb.iwgu.fgpiijgfmi
 .qufxngcxiiag_Rf_gb.iwgu.fgwiffyigfmigHiwfag_Rf_gb.iwgu.fgibq zfiagFmi
 mzxz fixgrumixiufgrugfmigZdixr zugji.jyigmzwgb.uigzyygfmzfgmzwgtiiu
z  .djyrwmib;gzubgrfgh.qybgmzsigb.uigw.dihmzfgd.xi,grcgfmigv.sixudiuf
mzbgu.fgw.difrdiwgv.fgrugrfwghznagC.xgv.sixudiufgrwgzugiojibriuf,gtn
hmr mgdiugh.qybgczrugwq  iibgrugyiffruvg.uigzu.fmixgzy.ui;gzub,gzwgmzw
tiiugwzrb,ghmiugrfgrwgd.wfgiojibriuf,gfmigv.sixuibgzxigd.wfgyifgzy.ui
tngrfagFxzbigzubg .ddix i,grcgfminghixigu.fgdzbig.cgRubrzgxqttix,gh.qyb
uisixgdzuzvigf.gt.qu ig.sixg.twfz yiwghmr mgyivrwyzf.xwgzxig .ufruqzyyn
jqffruvgrugfmirxghzn;gzub,grcg.uighixigf.gkqbvigfmiwigdiughm.yyngtngfmi
icci fwg.cgfmirxgz fr.uw,gzubgu.fgjzxfyngtngfmirxgrufiufr.uw,gfmin
h.qybgbiwixsigf.gtig yzwwibgzubgjqurwmibghrfmgfm.wigdrw mris.qwgjixw.uw
hm.gjqfg.twfxq fr.uwg.ugfmigxzryx.zbwa

Tqf,gf.gwjizpgjxz fr zyyngzubgzwgzg rfreiu,gquyrpigfm.wighm.g zyy
fmidwiysiwgu.-v.sixudiufgdiu,gRgzwpgc.x,gu.fgzfg.u igu.gv.sixudiuf,gtqf
_zfg.u i_gzgtiffixgv.sixudiufagYifgisixngdzugdzpigpu.hughmzfgprubg.c
v.sixudiufgh.qybg .ddzubgmrwgxiwji f,gzubgfmzfghryygtig.uigwfijgf.hzxb
.tfzruruvgrfa

Zcfixgzyy,gfmigjxz fr zygxizw.ughmn,ghmiugfmigj.hixgrwg.u igrugfmi
mzubwg.cgfmigji.jyi,gzgdzk.xrfngzxigjixdrffib,gzubgc.xgzgy.uvgjixr.b
 .ufruqi,gf.gxqyi,grwgu.fgti zqwigfmingzxigd.wfgyrpiyngf.gtigrugfmi
xrvmf,gu.xgti zqwigfmrwgwiidwgczrxiwfgf.gfmigdru.xrfn,gtqfgti zqwigfmin
zxigjmnwr zyyngfmigwfx.uviwfagTqfgzgv.sixudiufgrughmr mgfmigdzk.xrfn
xqyigrugzyyg zwiwg zugu.fgtigtzwibg.ugkqwfr i,gisiugzwgczxgzwgdiu
qubixwfzubgrfag zugfmixigu.fgtigzgv.sixudiufgrughmr mgfmigdzk.xrfriwgb.
u.fgsrxfqzyyngbi rbigxrvmfgzubghx.uv,gtqfg .uw riu i?—rughmr m
dzk.xrfriwgbi rbig.uyngfm.wiglqiwfr.uwgf.ghmr mgfmigxqyig.cgiojibriu n
rwgzjjyr ztyi?gDqwfgfmig rfreiugisixgc.xgzgd.diuf,g.xgrugfmigyizwf
bivxii,gxiwrvugmrwg .uw riu igf.gfmigyivrwyzf.x?gHmngmzwgisixngdzugz
 .uw riu i,gfmiu?gRgfmrupgfmzfghigwm.qybgtigdiugcrxwf,gzubgwqtki fw
zcfixhzxbagRfgrwgu.fgbiwrxztyigf.g qyfrszfigzgxiwji fgc.xgfmigyzh,gw.
dq mgzwgc.xgfmigxrvmfagFmig.uyng.tyrvzfr.ughmr mgRgmzsigzgxrvmfgf.
zwwqdi,grwgf.gb.gzfgzungfrdighmzfgRgfmrupgxrvmfagRfgrwgfxqyngiu.qvm
wzrbgfmzfgzg .xj.xzfr.ugmzwgu.g .uw riu i;gtqfgzg .xj.xzfr.ug.c
 .uw riufr.qwgdiugrwgzg .xj.xzfr.ug_hrfm_gzg .uw riu iagYzhguisixgdzbi
diugzghmrfgd.xigkqwf;gzub,gtngdizuwg.cgfmirxgxiwji fgc.xgrf,gisiugfmi
hiyy-brwj.wibgzxigbzryngdzbigfmigzviufwg.cgrukqwfr iagZg .dd.ugzub
uzfqxzygxiwqyfg.cgzugqubqigxiwji fgc.xgfmigyzhgrw,gfmzfgn.qgdzngwiigz
cryig.cgw.ybrixw,g .y.uiy,g zjfzru,g .xj.xzy,gjxrszfiw,gj.hbix-d.upinw
zubgzyy,gdzx mruvgrugzbdrxztyig.xbixg.sixgmryygzubgbzyigf.gfmighzxw,
zvzruwfgfmirxghryyw,gzni,gzvzruwfgfmirxg .dd.ugwiuwigzubg .uw riu iw,
hmr mgdzpiwgrfgsixngwfiijgdzx mruvgrubiib,gzubgjx.bq iwgzgjzyjrfzfr.u
.cgfmigmizxfagFmingmzsigu.gb.qtfgfmzfgrfgrwgzgbzduztyigtqwruiwwgru
hmr mgfmingzxig .u ixuib;gfmingzxigzyygjiz iztyngru yruibagU.h,ghmzf
zxigfmin?gDiugzfgzyy?g.xgwdzyygd.sztyigc.xfwgzubgdzvzeruiw,gzfgfmi
wixsr ig.cgw.digquw xqjqy.qwgdzugrugj.hix?gSrwrfgfmigUzsngNzxb,gzub
tim.ybgzgdzxrui,gwq mgzgdzugzwgzugZdixr zugv.sixudiufg zugdzpi,g.xgwq m
zwgrfg zugdzpigzgdzughrfmgrfwgtyz pgzxfw,gzgdixigwmzb.hgzub
xidrurw iu ig.cgmqdzurfn,gzgdzugyzrbg.qfgzyrsigzubgwfzubruv,gzub
zyxizbn,gzwg.uigdzngwzn,gtqxribgqubixgzxdwghrfmgcquixzygz  .djzurdiuf,
fm.qvmgrfgdzngti

ggggg“U.fgzgbxqdghzwgmizxb,gu.fgzgcquixzygu.fi,
gggggggggZwgmrwg .xjwigf.gfmigxzdjzxfwghigmqxxrib;
gggggU.fgzgw.ybrixgbrw mzxvibgmrwgczxihiyygwm.f
ggggggggg.’ixgfmigvxzsighmixig.qxgmix.ghigtqxriba”

Fmigdzwwg.cgdiugwixsigfmigWfzfigfmqw,gu.fgzwgdiugdzruyn,gtqfgzw
dz mruiw,ghrfmgfmirxgt.briwagFmingzxigfmigwfzubruvgzxdn,gzubgfmi
dryrfrz,gkzryixw,g .uwfztyiw,g_j.wwig .drfzfqw_,g& agRugd.wfg zwiw
fmixigrwgu.gcxiigioix rwighmzfisixg.cgfmigkqbvdiufg.xg.cgfmigd.xzy
wiuwi;gtqfgfmingjqfgfmidwiysiwg.ugzgyisiyghrfmgh..bgzubgizxfmgzub
wf.uiw;gzubgh..biugdiug zugjixmzjwgtigdzuqcz fqxibgfmzfghryygwixsigfmi
jqxj.wigzwghiyyagWq mg .ddzubgu.gd.xigxiwji fgfmzugdiug.cgwfxzh,g.xgz
yqdjg.cgbrxfagFmingmzsigfmigwzdigw.xfg.cgh.xfmg.uyngzwgm.xwiwgzubgb.vwa
Nifgwq mgzwgfmiwigisiugzxig .dd.uyngiwfiidibgv..bg rfreiuwag.fmixw,gzw
d.wfgyivrwyzf.xw,gj.yrfr rzuw,gyzhnixw,gdrurwfixw,gzubg.ccr i-m.ybixw,
wixsigfmigwfzfig mricynghrfmgfmirxgmizbw;gzub,gzwgfmingxzxiyngdzpigzun
d.xzygbrwfru fr.uw,gfmingzxigzwgyrpiyngf.gwixsigfmigbisry,ghrfm.qf
_rufiubruv_grf,gzwgV.bagZgsixngcih,gzwgmix.iw,gjzfxr.fw,gdzxfnxw,
xic.xdixwgrugfmigvxizfgwiuwi,gzubg_diu_,gwixsigfmigWfzfighrfmgfmirx
 .uw riu iwgzyw.,gzubgw.gui iwwzxryngxiwrwfgrfgc.xgfmigd.wfgjzxf;gzub
fmingzxig .dd.uyngfxizfibgtngrfgzwgiuidriwagZghrwigdzughryyg.uyngti
qwicqygzwgzgdzu,gzubghryygu.fgwqtdrfgf.gtig“ yzn,”gzubg“wf.jgzgm.yigf.
piijgfmighrubgzhzn,”gtqfgyizsigfmzfg.ccr igf.gmrwgbqwfgzfgyizwf:

ggggg“Rgzdgf..gmrvm-t.xugf.gtigjx.jixfrib,
gggggF.gtigzgwi .ubzxngzfg .ufx.y,
ggggg.xgqwicqygwixsruv-dzugzubgruwfxqdiuf
gggggF.gzungw.sixirvugwfzfigfmx.qvm.qfgfmigh.xyba”

Mighm.gvrsiwgmrdwiycgiufrxiyngf.gmrwgciyy.h-diugzjjizxwgf.gfmidgqwiyiww
zubgwiycrwm;gtqfgmighm.gvrsiwgmrdwiycgjzxfrzyyngf.gfmidgrwgjx.u.qu ibgz
tiuicz f.xgzubgjmryzufmx.jrwfa

M.hgb.iwgrfgti .digzgdzugf.gtimzsigf.hzxbgfmigZdixr zugv.sixudiuf
f.bzn?gRgzuwhixgfmzfgmig zuu.fghrfm.qfgbrwvxz igtigzww. rzfibghrfmgrfa
Rg zuu.fgc.xgzugruwfzufgxi .vureigfmzfgj.yrfr zyg.xvzurezfr.ugzwg_dn_
v.sixudiufghmr mgrwgfmig_wyzsi’w_gv.sixudiufgzyw.a

Zyygdiugxi .vureigfmigxrvmfg.cgxis.yqfr.u;gfmzfgrw,gfmigxrvmfgf.gxicqwi
zyyivrzu igf.gzubgf.gxiwrwfgfmigv.sixudiuf,ghmiugrfwgfnxzuung.xgrfw
ruiccr riu ngzxigvxizfgzubgquiubqxztyiagTqfgzyd.wfgzyygwzngfmzfgwq mgrw
u.fgfmig zwigu.hagTqfgwq mghzwgfmig zwi,gfmingfmrup,grugfmigXis.yqfr.u
.cg’75agRcg.uighixigf.gfiyygdigfmzfgfmrwghzwgzgtzbgv.sixudiufgti zqwi
rfgfzoibg ixfzrugc.xirvug .dd.brfriwgtx.qvmfgf.grfwgj.xfw,grfgrwgd.wf
jx.tztyigfmzfgRgwm.qybgu.fgdzpigzugzb.gzt.qfgrf,gc.xgRg zugb.ghrfm.qf
fmid:gzyygdz mruiwgmzsigfmirxgcxr fr.u;gzubgj.wwrtyngfmrwgb.iwgiu.qvm
v..bgf.g .qufix-tzyzu igfmigisryagZfgzungxzfi,grfgrwgzgvxizfgisrygf.
dzpigzgwfrxgzt.qfgrfagTqfghmiugfmigcxr fr.ug .diwgf.gmzsigrfwgdz mrui,
zubg.jjxiwwr.ugzubgx.ttixngzxig.xvzureib,gRgwzn,gyifgqwgu.fgmzsigwq mgz
dz mruigzungy.uvixagRug.fmixgh.xbw,ghmiugzgwrofmg.cgfmigj.jqyzfr.ug.cgz
uzfr.ughmr mgmzwgqubixfzpiugf.gtigfmigxicqvig.cgyrtixfngzxigwyzsiw,gzub
zghm.yig .qufxngrwgqukqwfyng.sixxqugzubg .ulqixibgtngzgc.xirvugzxdn,
zubgwqtki fibgf.gdryrfzxngyzh,gRgfmrupgfmzfgrfgrwgu.fgf..gw..ugc.x
m.uiwfgdiugf.gxitiygzubgxis.yqfr.ureiagHmzfgdzpiwgfmrwgbqfngfmigd.xi
qxviufgrwgfmzfgcz f,gfmzfgfmig .qufxngw.g.sixxqugrwgu.fg.qxg.hu,gtqf
.qxwgrwgfmigruszbruvgzxdna

Jzyin,gzg .dd.ugzqfm.xrfnghrfmgdzung.ugd.xzyglqiwfr.uw,grugmrwg mzjfix
.ugfmig“Bqfng.cgWqtdrwwr.ugf.g rsrygV.sixudiuf,”gxiw.ysiwgzyyg rsry
.tyrvzfr.ugruf.giojibriu n;gzubgmigjx. iibwgf.gwzn,g“fmzfgw.gy.uvgzw
fmigrufixiwfg.cgfmighm.yigw. rifngxilqrxiwgrf,gfmzfgrw,gw.gy.uvgzwgfmi
iwfztyrwmibgv.sixudiufg zuu.fgtigxiwrwfibg.xg mzuvibghrfm.qfgjqtyr 
ru .usiuriu n,grfgrwgfmighryyg.cgV.bgfmzfgfmigiwfztyrwmibgv.sixudiufgti
.tinib,gzubgu.gy.uvixa”—“Fmrwgjxru rjyigtiruvgzbdrffib,gfmigkqwfr ig.c
isixngjzxfr qyzxg zwig.cgxiwrwfzu igrwgxibq ibgf.gzg .djqfzfr.ug.cgfmi
lqzufrfng.cgfmigbzuvixgzubgvxriszu ig.ugfmig.uigwrbi,gzubg.cgfmi
jx.tztryrfngzubgiojiuwig.cgxibxiwwruvgrfg.ugfmig.fmixa”g.cgfmrw,gmi
wznw,gisixngdzugwmzyygkqbvigc.xgmrdwiycagTqfgJzyingzjjizxwguisixgf.
mzsig .ufidjyzfibgfm.wig zwiwgf.ghmr mgfmigxqyig.cgiojibriu ngb.iwgu.f
zjjyn,grughmr mgzgji.jyi,gzwghiyygzwgzugrubrsrbqzy,gdqwfgb.gkqwfr i,
 .wfghmzfgrfgdznagRcgRgmzsigqukqwfynghxiwfibgzgjyzupgcx.dgzgbx.huruv
dzu,gRgdqwfgxiwf.xigrfgf.gmrdgfm.qvmgRgbx.hugdnwiycagFmrw,gz  .xbruvgf.
Jzyin,gh.qybgtigru .usiuriufagTqfgmigfmzfgh.qybgwzsigmrwgyrci,grugwq m
zg zwi,gwmzyygy.wigrfagFmrwgji.jyigdqwfg izwigf.gm.ybgwyzsiw,gzubgf.
dzpighzxg.ugDior .,gfm.qvmgrfg .wfgfmidgfmirxgiorwfiu igzwgzgji.jyia

Rugfmirxgjxz fr i,guzfr.uwgzvxiighrfmgJzyin;gtqfgb.iwgzun.uigfmrupgfmzf
Dzwwz mqwiffwgb.iwgioz fynghmzfgrwgxrvmfgzfgfmigjxiwiufg xrwrw?

ggggg“Zgbxztg.cgwfzfi,gzg y.fm-.’-wrysixgwyqf,
gggggF.gmzsigmixgfxzrugt.xuigqj,gzubgmixgw.qygfxzrygrugfmigbrxfa”

Jxz fr zyyngwjizpruv,gfmig.jj.uiufwgf.gzgxic.xdgrugDzwwz mqwiffwgzxi
u.fgzgmqubxibgfm.qwzubgj.yrfr rzuwgzfgfmigW.qfm,gtqfgzgmqubxibgfm.qwzub
dix mzufwgzubgczxdixwgmixi,ghm.gzxigd.xigrufixiwfibgrug .ddix igzub
zvxr qyfqxigfmzugfmingzxigrugmqdzurfn,gzubgzxigu.fgjxijzxibgf.gb.
kqwfr igf.gfmigwyzsigzubgf.gDior .,g_ .wfghmzfgrfgdzn_agRglqzxxiygu.f
hrfmgczx-.ccgc.iw,gtqfghrfmgfm.wighm.,guizxgzfgm.di,g .-.jixzfighrfm,
zubgb.gfmigtrbbruvg.cgfm.wigczxgzhzn,gzubghrfm.qfghm.dgfmigyzffixgh.qyb
tigmzxdyiwwagHigzxigz  qwf.dibgf.gwzn,gfmzfgfmigdzwwg.cgdiugzxi
qujxijzxib;gtqfgrdjx.sidiufgrwgwy.h,gti zqwigfmigcihgzxigu.fgdzfixrzyyn
hrwixg.xgtiffixgfmzugfmigdzunagRfgrwgu.fgw.grdj.xfzufgfmzfgdzungwm.qyb
tigzwgv..bgzwgn.q,gzwgfmzfgfmixigtigw.digztw.yqfigv..buiwwgw.dihmixi;
c.xgfmzfghryygyizsiugfmighm.yigyqdjagFmixigzxigfm.qwzubwghm.gzxig_ru
.jrur.u_g.jj.wibgf.gwyzsixngzubgf.gfmighzx,ghm.gnifgrugicci fgb.
u.fmruvgf.gjqfgzugiubgf.gfmid;ghm.,giwfiidruvgfmidwiysiwg mrybxiug.c
Hzwmruvf.ugzubgCxzupyru,gwrfgb.hughrfmgfmirxgmzubwgrugfmirxgj. pifw,
zubgwzngfmzfgfmingpu.hgu.fghmzfgf.gb.,gzubgb.gu.fmruv;ghm.gisiu
j.wfj.uigfmiglqiwfr.ug.cgcxiib.dgf.gfmiglqiwfr.ug.cgcxii-fxzbi,gzub
lqrifyngxizbgfmigjxr iw- qxxiufgzy.uvghrfmgfmigyzfiwfgzbsr iwgcx.d
Dior .,gzcfixgbruuix,gzub,grfgdzngti,gczyygzwyiijg.sixgfmidgt.fmagHmzf
rwgfmigjxr i- qxxiufg.cgzugm.uiwfgdzugzubgjzfxr.fgf.bzn?gFmingmiwrfzfi,
zubgfmingxivxif,gzubgw.difrdiwgfmingjifrfr.u;gtqfgfmingb.gu.fmruvgru
izxuiwfgzubghrfmgicci fagFminghryyghzrf,ghiyygbrwj.wib,gc.xg.fmixwgf.
xidibngfmigisry,gfmzfgfmingdzngu.gy.uvixgmzsigrfgf.gxivxifagZfgd.wf,
fmingvrsig.uyngzg mizjgs.fi,gzubgzgciityig .qufiuzu igzubgV.bwjiib,gf.
fmigxrvmf,gzwgrfgv.iwgtngfmidagFmixigzxiguruigmqubxibgzubguruifn-urui
jzfx.uwg.cgsrxfqigf.g.uigsrxfq.qwgdzu;gtqfgrfgrwgizwrixgf.gbizyghrfm
fmigxizygj.wwiww.xg.cgzgfmruvgfmzughrfmgfmigfidj.xzxngvqzxbrzug.cgrfa

Zyygs.fruvgrwgzgw.xfg.cgvzdruv,gyrpig milqixwg.xgtz pvzdd.u,ghrfmgz
wyrvmfgd.xzygfruvigf.grf,gzgjyznruvghrfmgxrvmfgzubghx.uv,ghrfmgd.xzy
lqiwfr.uw;gzubgtiffruvguzfqxzyyngz  .djzuriwgrfagFmig mzxz fixg.cgfmi
s.fixwgrwgu.fgwfzpibagRg zwfgdngs.fi,gjix mzu i,gzwgRgfmrupgxrvmf;gtqf
Rgzdgu.fgsrfzyyng .u ixuibgfmzfgfmzfgxrvmfgwm.qybgjxiszryagRgzdghryyruv
f.gyizsigrfgf.gfmigdzk.xrfnagRfwg.tyrvzfr.u,gfmixic.xi,guisixgio iibw
fmzfg.cgiojibriu nagIsiugs.fruvg_c.xgfmigxrvmf_grwg_b.ruv_gu.fmruvgc.x
rfagRfgrwg.uyngiojxiwwruvgf.gdiugciityngn.qxgbiwrxigfmzfgrfgwm.qyb
jxiszryagZghrwigdzughryygu.fgyizsigfmigxrvmfgf.gfmigdix ng.cg mzu i,
u.xghrwmgrfgf.gjxiszrygfmx.qvmgfmigj.hixg.cgfmigdzk.xrfnagFmixigrwgtqf
yrffyigsrxfqigrugfmigz fr.ug.cgdzwwiwg.cgdiuagHmiugfmigdzk.xrfngwmzyy
zfgyiuvfmgs.figc.xgfmigzt.yrfr.ug.cgwyzsixn,grfghryygtigti zqwigfmin
zxigrubrccixiufgf.gwyzsixn,g.xgti zqwigfmixigrwgtqfgyrffyigwyzsixngyicf
f.gtigzt.yrwmibgtngfmirxgs.fiag_Fmin_ghryygfmiugtigfmig.uyngwyzsiwa
.uyng_mrw_gs.fig zugmzwfiugfmigzt.yrfr.ug.cgwyzsixnghm.gzwwixfwgmrwg.hu
cxiib.dgtngmrwgs.fia

Rgmizxg.cgzg .usiufr.ugf.gtigmiybgzfgTzyfrd.xi,g.xgiywihmixi,gc.xgfmi
wiyi fr.ug.cgzg zubrbzfigc.xgfmigJxiwrbiu n,gdzbigqjg mricyng.c
ibrf.xw,gzubgdiughm.gzxigj.yrfr rzuwgtngjx.ciwwr.u;gtqfgRgfmrup,ghmzf
rwgrfgf.gzungrubijiubiuf,grufiyyrviuf,gzubgxiwji fztyigdzughmzf
bi rwr.ugfmingdzng .digf.,gwmzyyghigu.fgmzsigfmigzbszufzvig.cgmrw
hrwb.dgzubgm.uiwfn,guisixfmiyiww?g zughigu.fg .qufgqj.ugw.di
rubijiubiufgs.fiw?gZxigfmixigu.fgdzungrubrsrbqzywgrugfmig .qufxnghm.gb.
u.fgzffiubg .usiufr.uw?gTqfgu.:gRgcrubgfmzfgfmigxiwji fztyigdzu,gw.
 zyyib,gmzwgrddibrzfiyngbxrcfibgcx.dgmrwgj.wrfr.u,gzubgbiwjzrxwg.cgmrw
 .qufxn,ghmiugmrwg .qufxngmzwgd.xigxizw.uwgf.gbiwjzrxg.cgmrdagMi
c.xfmhrfmgzb.jfwg.uig.cgfmig zubrbzfiwgfmqwgwiyi fibgzwgfmig.uyn
_zszryztyi_g.ui,gfmqwgjx.sruvgfmzfgmigrwgmrdwiycg_zszryztyi_gc.xgzun
jqxj.wiwg.cgfmigbidzv.vqiagMrwgs.figrwg.cgu.gd.xigh.xfmgfmzugfmzfg.c
zungqujxru rjyibgc.xirvuixg.xgmrxiyruvguzfrsi,ghm.gdzngmzsigtiiu
t.qvmfag.mgc.xgzgdzughm.grwgzg_dzu_,gzub,gzwgdnguirvmt.xgwznw,gmzwgz
t.uigrugmrwgtz pghmr mgn.qg zuu.fgjzwwgn.qxgmzubgfmx.qvm!g.qx
wfzfrwfr wgzxigzfgczqyf:gfmigj.jqyzfr.ugmzwgtiiugxifqxuibgf..gyzxvia
M.hgdzung_diu_gzxigfmixigf.gzgwlqzxigfm.qwzubgdryiwgrugfmig .qufxn?
Mzxbyng.uiagB.iwgu.fgZdixr zg.ccixgzungrubq idiufgc.xgdiugf.gwiffyi
mixi?gFmigZdixr zugmzwgbhrubyibgruf.gzug.bbgCiyy.h,—.uighm.gdzngti
pu.hugtngfmigbisiy.jdiufg.cgmrwg.xvzug.cgvxivzxr.qwuiww,gzubgzgdzurciwf
yz pg.cgrufiyyi fgzubg miixcqygwiyc-xiyrzu i;ghm.wigcrxwfgzubg mric
 .u ixu,g.ug .druvgruf.gfmigh.xyb,grwgf.gwiigfmzfgfmigzydw-m.qwiwgzxi
rugv..bgxijzrx;gzub,gtic.xignifgmigmzwgyzhcqyyngb.uuibgfmigsrxryigvzxt,
f.g .yyi fgzgcqubgc.xgfmigwqjj.xfg.cgfmighrb.hwgzubg.xjmzuwgfmzfgdzn
ti;ghm.,grugwm.xf,gsiufqxiwgf.gyrsig.uyngtngfmigzrbg.cgfmigDqfqzy
Ruwqxzu ig .djzun,ghmr mgmzwgjx.drwibgf.gtqxngmrdgbi iufyna

Rfgrwgu.fgzgdzu’wgbqfn,gzwgzgdzffixg.cg .qxwi,gf.gbis.figmrdwiycgf.gfmi
ixzbr zfr.ug.cgzun,gisiugfmigd.wfgiu.xd.qwghx.uv;gmigdzngwfryygjx.jixyn
mzsig.fmixg .u ixuwgf.giuvzvigmrd;gtqfgrfgrwgmrwgbqfn,gzfgyizwf,gf.
hzwmgmrwgmzubwg.cgrf,gzub,grcgmigvrsiwgrfgu.gfm.qvmfgy.uvix,gu.fgf.
vrsigrfgjxz fr zyyngmrwgwqjj.xfagRcgRgbis.figdnwiycgf.g.fmixgjqxwqrfw
zubg .ufidjyzfr.uw,gRgdqwfgcrxwfgwii,gzfgyizwf,gfmzfgRgb.gu.fgjqxwqi
fmidgwrffruvgqj.ugzu.fmixgdzu’wgwm.qybixwagRgdqwfgvifg.ccgmrdgcrxwf,
fmzfgmigdzngjqxwqigmrwg .ufidjyzfr.uwgf..agWiighmzfgvx.wwgru .uwrwfiu n
rwgf.yixzfibagRgmzsigmizxbgw.dig.cgdngf.huwdiugwzn,g“Rgwm.qybgyrpigf.
mzsigfmidg.xbixgdig.qfgf.gmiyjgjqfgb.hugzugruwqxxi fr.ug.cgfmigwyzsiw,
.xgf.gdzx mgf.gDior .,—wiigrcgRgh.qybgv.;”gzubgnifgfmiwigsixngdiugmzsi
iz m,gbrxi fyngtngfmirxgzyyivrzu i,gzubgw.grubrxi fyn,gzfgyizwf,gtn
fmirxgd.uin,gcqxurwmibgzgwqtwfrfqfiagFmigw.ybrixgrwgzjjyzqbibghm.
xicqwiwgf.gwixsigrugzugqukqwfghzxgtngfm.wighm.gb.gu.fgxicqwigf.gwqwfzru
fmigqukqwfgv.sixudiufghmr mgdzpiwgfmighzx;grwgzjjyzqbibgtngfm.wighm.wi
.hugz fgzubgzqfm.xrfngmigbrwxivzxbwgzubgwifwgzfguzqvmf;gzwgrcgfmigWfzfi
hixigjiurfiufgf.gfmzfgbivxiigfmzfgrfgmrxibg.uigf.gw .qxvigrfghmryigrf
wruuib,gtqfgu.fgf.gfmzfgbivxiigfmzfgrfgyicfg.ccgwruuruvgc.xgzgd.diufa
Fmqw,gqubixgfmiguzdig.cg.xbixgzubg rsrygV.sixudiuf,ghigzxigzyygdzbigzf
yzwfgf.gjzngm.dzvigf.gzubgwqjj.xfg.qxg.hugdizuuiwwagZcfixgfmigcrxwf
tyqwmg.cgwru,g .diwgrfwgrubrccixiu i;gzubgcx.dgrdd.xzygrfgti .diw,gzw
rfghixi,g_qu_d.xzy,gzubgu.fglqrfigquui iwwzxngf.gfmzfgyrcighmr mghi
mzsigdzbia

Fmigtx.zbiwfgzubgd.wfgjxiszyiufgixx.xgxilqrxiwgfmigd.wfgbrwrufixiwfib
srxfqigf.gwqwfzrugrfagFmigwyrvmfgxijx.z mgf.ghmr mgfmigsrxfqig.c
jzfxr.frwdgrwg .dd.uyngyrztyi,gfmigu.tyigzxigd.wfgyrpiyngf.gru qxa
Fm.wighm.,ghmryigfmingbrwzjjx.sig.cgfmig mzxz fixgzubgdizwqxiwg.cgz
v.sixudiuf,gnriybgf.grfgfmirxgzyyivrzu igzubgwqjj.xf,gzxigqub.qtfibyn
rfwgd.wfg .uw riufr.qwgwqjj.xfixw,gzubgw.gcxilqiufyngfmigd.wfgwixr.qw
.twfz yiwgf.gxic.xdagW.digzxigjifrfr.uruvgfmigWfzfigf.gbrww.ysigfmi
Qur.u,gf.gbrwxivzxbgfmigxilqrwrfr.uwg.cgfmigJxiwrbiufagHmngb.gfmingu.f
brww.ysigrfgfmidwiysiw,—fmigqur.ugtifhiiugfmidwiysiwgzubgfmigWfzfi,—zub
xicqwigf.gjzngfmirxglq.fzgruf.grfwgfxizwqxn?gB.gu.fgfmingwfzubgrugwzdi
xiyzfr.ugf.gfmigWfzfi,gfmzfgfmigWfzfigb.iwgf.gfmigQur.u?gZubgmzsigu.f
fmigwzdigxizw.uwgjxisiufibgfmigWfzfigcx.dgxiwrwfruvgfmigQur.u,ghmr m
mzsigjxisiufibgfmidgcx.dgxiwrwfruvgfmigWfzfi?

M.hg zugzgdzugtigwzfrwcribgf.giufixfzrugzug.jrur.ugdixiyn,gzubgiuk.n
_rf?_gRwgfmixigzungiuk.ndiufgrugrf,grcgmrwg.jrur.ugrwgfmzfgmigrw
zvvxrisib?gRcgn.qgzxig mizfibg.qfg.cgzgwruvyigb.yyzxgtngn.qxguirvmt.x,
n.qgb.gu.fgxiwfgwzfrwcribghrfmgpu.hruvgn.qgzxig mizfib,g.xghrfmgwznruv
fmzfgn.qgzxig mizfib,g.xgisiughrfmgjifrfr.uruvgmrdgf.gjzngn.qgn.qxgbqi;
tqfgn.qgfzpigicci fqzygwfijwgzfg.u igf.g.tfzrugfmigcqyygzd.quf,gzubgwii
fmzfgn.qgzxiguisixg mizfibgzvzruagZ fr.ugcx.dgjxru rjyi,—fmigjix ijfr.u
zubgfmigjixc.xdzu ig.cgxrvmf,— mzuviwgfmruvwgzubgxiyzfr.uw;grfgrw
iwwiufrzyyngxis.yqfr.uzxn,gzubgb.iwgu.fg .uwrwfghm.yynghrfmgzunfmruv
hmr mghzwagRfgu.fg.uyngbrsrbibgwfzfiwgzubg mqx miw,grfgbrsrbiw
czdryriw;gzni,grfgbrsrbiwgfmig_rubrsrbqzy_,gwijzxzfruvgfmigbrzt.yr zy
rugmrdgcx.dgfmigbrsruia

Qukqwfgyzhwgiorwf:gwmzyyghigtig .ufiufgf.g.tingfmid,g.xgwmzyyghi
iubizs.xgf.gzdiubgfmid,gzubg.tingfmidgqufryghigmzsigwq  iibib,g.xgwmzyy
higfxzuwvxiwwgfmidgzfg.u i?gDiugviuixzyyn,gqubixgwq mgzgv.sixudiufgzw
fmrw,gfmrupgfmzfgfming.qvmfgf.ghzrfgqufrygfmingmzsigjixwqzbibgfmi
dzk.xrfngf.gzyfixgfmidagFmingfmrupgfmzf,grcgfmingwm.qybgxiwrwf,gfmi
xidibngh.qybgtigh.xwigfmzugfmigisryagTqfgrfgrwgfmigczqyfg.cgfmi
v.sixudiufgrfwiycgfmzfgfmigxidibng_rw_gh.xwigfmzugfmigisryag_Rf_gdzpiw
rfgh.xwiagHmngrwgrfgu.fgd.xigzjfgf.gzufr rjzfigzubgjx.srbigc.xgxic.xd?
Hmngb.iwgrfgu.fg mixrwmgrfwghrwigdru.xrfn?gHmngb.iwgrfg xngzubgxiwrwf
tic.xigrfgrwgmqxf?gHmngb.iwgrfgu.fgiu .qxzvigrfwg rfreiuwgf.gtig.ugfmi
zyixfgf.gj.rufg.qfgrfwgczqyfw,gzubg_b._gtiffixgfmzugrfgh.qybgmzsigfmid?
Hmngb.iwgrfgzyhznwg xq rcng mxrwf,gzubgio .ddqur zfig .jixur qwgzub
Yqfmix,gzubgjx.u.qu igHzwmruvf.ugzubgCxzupyrugxitiyw?

.uigh.qybgfmrup,gfmzfgzgbiyrtixzfigzubgjxz fr zygbiurzyg.cgrfw
zqfm.xrfnghzwgfmig.uyng.cciu iguisixg .ufidjyzfibgtngv.sixudiuf;giywi,
hmngmzwgrfgu.fgzwwrvuibgrfwgbicrurfi,grfwgwqrfztyigzubgjx.j.xfr.uzfi
jiuzyfn?gRcgzgdzughm.gmzwgu.gjx.jixfngxicqwiwgtqfg.u igf.gizxugurui
wmryyruvwgc.xgfmigWfzfi,gmigrwgjqfgrugjxrw.ugc.xgzgjixr.bgquyrdrfibgtn
zungyzhgfmzfgRgpu.h,gzubgbifixdruibg.uyngtngfmigbrw xifr.ug.cgfm.wighm.
jyz ibgmrdgfmixi;gtqfgrcgmigwm.qybgwfizyguruifngfrdiwguruigwmryyruvw
cx.dgfmigWfzfi,gmigrwgw..ugjixdrffibgf.gv.gzfgyzxvigzvzrua

Rcgfmigrukqwfr igrwgjzxfg.cgfmigui iwwzxngcxr fr.ug.cgfmigdz mruig.c
v.sixudiuf,gyifgrfgv.,gyifgrfgv.:gjix mzu igrfghryyghizx
wd..fm,— ixfzruyngfmigdz mruighryyghizxg.qfagRcgfmigrukqwfr igmzwgz
wjxruv,g.xgzgjqyyin,g.xgzgx.ji,g.xgzg xzup,gio yqwrsiyngc.xgrfwiyc,
fmiugjixmzjwgn.qgdzng .uwrbixghmifmixgfmigxidibnghryygu.fgtigh.xwigfmzu
fmigisry;gtqfgrcgrfgrwg.cgwq mgzguzfqxigfmzfgrfgxilqrxiwgn.qgf.gtigfmi
zviufg.cgrukqwfr igf.gzu.fmix,gfmiu,gRgwzn,gtxizpgfmigyzhagYifgn.qx
yrcigtigzg .qufixgcxr fr.ugf.gwf.jgfmigdz mruiagHmzfgRgmzsigf.gb.grwgf.
wii,gzfgzungxzfi,gfmzfgRgb.gu.fgyiubgdnwiycgf.gfmighx.uvghmr mgR
 .ubidua

Zwgc.xgzb.jfruvgfmighznwghmr mgfmigWfzfigmzwgjx.srbibgc.xgxidibnruvgfmi
isry,gRgpu.hgu.fg.cgwq mghznwagFmingfzpigf..gdq mgfrdi,gzubgzgdzu’w
yrcighryygtigv.uiagRgmzsig.fmixgzcczrxwgf.gzffiubgf.agRg zdigruf.gfmrw
h.xyb,gu.fg mricyngf.gdzpigfmrwgzgv..bgjyz igf.gyrsigru,gtqfgf.gyrsigru
rf,gtigrfgv..bg.xgtzbagZgdzugmzwgu.fgisixngfmruvgf.gb.,gtqfgw.difmruv;
zubgti zqwigmig zuu.fgb.g_isixngfmruv_,grfgrwgu.fgui iwwzxngfmzfgmi
wm.qybgb.g_w.difmruv_ghx.uvagRfgrwgu.fgdngtqwruiwwgf.gtigjifrfr.uruv
fmigV.sixu.xg.xgfmigYivrwyzfqxigzungd.xigfmzugrfgrwgfmirxwgf.gjifrfr.u
di;gzub,grcgfmingwm.qybgu.fgmizxgdngjifrfr.u,ghmzfgwm.qybgRgb.gfmiu?
Tqfgrugfmrwg zwigfmigWfzfigmzwgjx.srbibgu.ghzn:grfwgsixng .uwfrfqfr.u
rwgfmigisryagFmrwgdzngwiidgf.gtigmzxwmgzubgwfqtt.xugzub
qu .u ryyrzf.xn;gtqfgrfgrwgf.gfxizfghrfmgfmigqfd.wfgprubuiwwgzub
 .uwrbixzfr.ugfmig.uyngwjrxrfgfmzfg zugzjjxi rzfig.xgbiwixsiwgrfagW.grw
zyyg mzuvigc.xgfmigtiffix,gyrpigtrxfmgzubgbizfmghmr mg .usqywigfmi
t.bna

Rgb.gu.fgmiwrfzfigf.gwzn,gfmzfgfm.wighm.g zyygfmidwiysiwgzt.yrfr.urwfw
wm.qybgzfg.u igicci fqzyynghrfmbxzhgfmirxgwqjj.xf,gt.fmgrugjixw.ugzub
jx.jixfn,gcx.dgfmigv.sixudiufg.cgDzwwz mqwiffw,gzubgu.fghzrfgfryygfmin
 .uwfrfqfigzgdzk.xrfng.cg.ui,gtic.xigfmingwqccixgfmigxrvmfgf.gjxiszry
fmx.qvmgfmidagRgfmrupgfmzfgrfgrwgiu.qvmgrcgfmingmzsigV.bg.ugfmirxgwrbi,
hrfm.qfghzrfruvgc.xgfmzfg.fmixg.uiagD.xi.six,gzungdzugd.xigxrvmfgfmzu
mrwguirvmt.xwg .uwfrfqfiwgzgdzk.xrfng.cg.uigzyxizbna

RgdiifgfmrwgZdixr zugv.sixudiuf,g.xgrfwgxijxiwiufzfrsi,gfmigWfzfi
v.sixudiuf,gbrxi fyn,gzubgcz igf.gcz i,g.u igzgnizx,gu.gd.xi,grugfmi
jixw.ug.cgrfwgfzo-vzfmixix;gfmrwgrwgfmig.uyngd.bigrughmr mgzgdzu
wrfqzfibgzwgRgzdgui iwwzxryngdiifwgrf;gzubgrfgfmiugwznwgbrwfru fyn,
Xi .vureigdi;gzubgfmigwrdjyiwf,gfmigd.wfgicci fqzy,gzub,grugfmigjxiwiuf
j.wfqxig.cgzcczrxw,gfmigrubrwjiuwztyiwfgd.big.cgfxizfruvghrfmgrfg.u
fmrwgmizb,g.cgiojxiwwruvgn.qxgyrffyigwzfrwcz fr.ughrfmgzubgy.sigc.xgrf,
rwgf.gbiungrfgfmiuagDng rsryguirvmt.x,gfmigfzo-vzfmixix,grwgfmigsixn
dzugRgmzsigf.gbizyghrfm,—c.xgrfgrw,gzcfixgzyy,ghrfmgdiugzubgu.fghrfm
jzx mdiufgfmzfgRglqzxxiy,—zubgmigmzwgs.yqufzxryng m.wiugf.gtigzugzviuf
.cgfmigv.sixudiufagM.hgwmzyygmigisixgpu.hghiyyghmzfgmigrwgzubgb.iwgzw
zug.ccr ixg.cgfmigv.sixudiuf,g.xgzwgzgdzu,gqufrygmigrwg.tyrvibgf.
 .uwrbixghmifmixgmigwmzyygfxizfgdi,gmrwguirvmt.x,gc.xghm.dgmigmzw
xiwji f,gzwgzguirvmt.xgzubghiyy-brwj.wibgdzu,g.xgzwgzgdzurz gzub
brwfqxtixg.cgfmigjiz i,gzubgwiigrcgmig zugvifg.sixgfmrwg.twfxq fr.ugf.
mrwguirvmt.xyruiwwghrfm.qfgzgxqbixgzubgd.xigrdjifq.qwgfm.qvmfg.xgwjii m
 .xxiwj.ubruvghrfmgmrwgz fr.u?gRgpu.hgfmrwghiyy,gfmzfgrcg.uigfm.qwzub,
rcg.uigmqubxib,grcgfiugdiughm.dgRg .qybguzdi,—rcgfiug_m.uiwf_gdiu
.uyn,—zni,grcg_.ui_gM.UIWFgdzu,grugfmrwgWfzfig.cgDzwwz mqwiffw,
_ izwruvgf.gm.ybgwyzsiw_,ghixigz fqzyyngf.ghrfmbxzhgcx.dgfmrw
 .jzxfuixwmrj,gzubgtigy. pibgqjgrugfmig .qufngkzrygfmixic.x,grfgh.qyb
tigfmigzt.yrfr.ug.cgwyzsixngrugZdixr zagC.xgrfgdzffixwgu.fgm.hgwdzyy
fmigtivruuruvgdzngwiidgf.gti:ghmzfgrwg.u ighiyygb.uigrwgb.uigc.xgisixa
Tqfghigy.sigtiffixgf.gfzypgzt.qfgrf:gfmzfghigwzngrwg.qxgdrwwr.uagXic.xd
piijwgdzungw .xiwg.cguihwjzjixwgrugrfwgwixsr i,gtqfgu.fg.uigdzuagRcgdn
iwfiidibguirvmt.x,gfmigWfzfi’wgzdtzwwzb.x,ghm.ghryygbis.figmrwgbznwgf.
fmigwiffyidiufg.cgfmiglqiwfr.ug.cgmqdzugxrvmfwgrugfmig .qu ryg mzdtix,
ruwfizbg.cgtiruvgfmxizfiuibghrfmgfmigjxrw.uwg.cg zx.yruz,ghixigf.gwrf
b.hugfmigjxrw.uixg.cgDzwwz mqwiffw,gfmzfgWfzfighmr mgrwgw.gzuor.qwgf.
c.rwfgfmigwrug.cgwyzsixngqj.ugmixgwrwfix,—fm.qvmgzfgjxiwiufgwmig zu
brw .sixg.uyngzugz fg.cgrum.wjrfzyrfngf.gtigfmigvx.qubg.cgzglqzxxiy
hrfmgmix,—fmigYivrwyzfqxigh.qybgu.fghm.yynghzrsigfmigwqtki fg.cgfmi
c.yy.hruvghrufixa

Qubixgzgv.sixudiufghmr mgrdjxrw.uwgzungqukqwfyn,gfmigfxqigjyz igc.xgz
kqwfgdzugrwgzyw.gzgjxrw.uagFmigjx.jixgjyz igf.bzn,gfmig.uyngjyz ighmr m
Dzwwz mqwiffwgmzwgjx.srbibgc.xgmixgcxiixgzubgyiwwgbiwj.ubruvgwjrxrfw,
rwgrugmixgjxrw.uw,gf.gtigjqfg.qfgzubgy. pibg.qfg.cgfmigWfzfigtngmixg.hu
z f,gzwgfmingmzsigzyxizbngjqfgfmidwiysiwg.qfgtngfmirxgjxru rjyiwagRfgrw
fmixigfmzfgfmigcqvrfrsigwyzsi,gzubgfmigDior zugjxrw.uixg.ugjzx.yi,gzub
fmigRubrzug .digf.gjyizbgfmighx.uvwg.cgmrwgxz i,gwm.qybgcrubgfmid;g.u
fmzfgwijzxzfi,gtqfgd.xigcxiigzubgm.u.xztyigvx.qub,ghmixigfmigWfzfi
jyz iwgfm.wighm.gzxigu.fg_hrfm_gmixgtqfg_zvzruwf_gmix,—fmig.uyngm.qwi
rugzgwyzsi-wfzfigrughmr mgzgcxiigdzug zugztrbighrfmgm.u.xagRcgzungfmrup
fmzfgfmirxgrucyqiu igh.qybgtigy.wfgfmixi,gzubgfmirxgs.r iwgu.gy.uvix
zccyr fgfmigizxg.cgfmigWfzfi,gfmzfgfmingh.qybgu.fgtigzwgzugiuidnghrfmru
rfwghzyyw,gfmingb.gu.fgpu.hgtngm.hgdq mgfxqfmgrwgwfx.uvixgfmzugixx.x,
u.xgm.hgdq mgd.xigiy.lqiufyngzubgicci frsiyngmig zug .dtzfgrukqwfr i
hm.gmzwgiojixriu ibgzgyrffyigrugmrwg.hugjixw.uag zwfgn.qxghm.yigs.fi,
u.fgzgwfxrjg.cgjzjixgdixiyn,gtqfgn.qxghm.yigrucyqiu iagZgdru.xrfngrw
j.hixyiwwghmryigrfg .uc.xdwgf.gfmigdzk.xrfn;grfgrwgu.fgisiugzgdru.xrfn
fmiu;gtqfgrfgrwgrxxiwrwfrtyighmiugrfg y.vwgtngrfwghm.yighirvmfagRcgfmi
zyfixuzfrsigrwgf.gpiijgzyygkqwfgdiugrugjxrw.u,g.xgvrsigqjghzxgzub
wyzsixn,gfmigWfzfighryygu.fgmiwrfzfighmr mgf.g m..wiagRcgzgfm.qwzubgdiu
hixigu.fgf.gjzngfmirxgfzo-tryywgfmrwgnizx,gfmzfgh.qybgu.fgtigzgsr.yiuf
zubgty..bngdizwqxi,gzwgrfgh.qybgtigf.gjzngfmid,gzubgiuztyigfmigWfzfigf.
 .ddrfgsr.yiu igzubgwmibgruu. iufgty..bagFmrwgrw,grugcz f,gfmi
bicrurfr.ug.cgzgjiz iztyigxis.yqfr.u,grcgzungwq mgrwgj.wwrtyiagRcgfmi
fzo-vzfmixix,g.xgzung.fmixgjqtyr g.ccr ix,gzwpwgdi,gzwg.uigmzwgb.ui,
“TqfghmzfgwmzyygRgb.?”gdngzuwhixgrw,g“Rcgn.qgxizyynghrwmgf.gb.gzun
fmruv,gxiwrvugn.qxg.ccr ia”gHmiugfmigwqtki fgmzwgxicqwibgzyyivrzu i,
zubgfmig.ccr ixgmzwgxiwrvuibgmrwg.ccr i,gfmiugfmigxis.yqfr.ugrw
z  .djyrwmibagTqfgisiugwqjj.wigty..bgwm.qybgcy.hagRwgfmixigu.fgzgw.xf
.cgty..bgwmibghmiugfmig .uw riu igrwgh.qubib?gFmx.qvmgfmrwgh.qubgz
dzu’wgxizygdzum..bgzubgrdd.xfzyrfngcy.hg.qf,gzubgmigtyiibwgf.gzu
isixyzwfruvgbizfmagRgwiigfmrwgty..bgcy.hruvgu.ha

Rgmzsig .ufidjyzfibgfmigrdjxrw.udiufg.cgfmig.cciubix,gxzfmixgfmzugfmi
wireqxig.cgmrwgv..bw,—fm.qvmgt.fmghryygwixsigfmigwzdigjqxj.wi,—ti zqwi
fminghm.gzwwixfgfmigjqxiwfgxrvmf,gzubg .uwilqiufyngzxigd.wfgbzuvix.qw
f.gzg .xxqjfgWfzfi,g .dd.uyngmzsigu.fgwjiufgdq mgfrdigrugz  qdqyzfruv
jx.jixfnagF.gwq mgfmigWfzfigxiubixwg .djzxzfrsiyngwdzyygwixsr i,gzubgz
wyrvmfgfzogrwgh.ufgf.gzjjizxgio.xtrfzuf,gjzxfr qyzxyngrcgfmingzxi
.tyrvibgf.gizxugrfgtngwji rzygyzt.xghrfmgfmirxgmzubwagRcgfmixighixig.ui
hm.gyrsibghm.yynghrfm.qfgfmigqwig.cgd.uin,gfmigWfzfigrfwiycgh.qyb
miwrfzfigf.gbidzubgrfg.cgmrdagTqfgfmigxr mgdzu—u.fgf.gdzpigzun
rusrbr.qwg .djzxrw.u—rwgzyhznwgw.ybgf.gfmigruwfrfqfr.ughmr mgdzpiwgmrd
xr magZtw.yqfiyngwjizpruv,gfmigd.xigd.uin,gfmigyiwwgsrxfqi;gc.xgd.uin
 .diwgtifhiiugzgdzugzubgmrwg.tki fw,gzubg.tfzruwgfmidgc.xgmrd;grfghzw
 ixfzruyngu.gvxizfgsrxfqigf.g.tfzrugrfagRfgjqfwgf.gxiwfgdzunglqiwfr.uw
hmr mgmigh.qybg.fmixhrwigtigfzoibgf.gzuwhix;ghmryigfmig.uynguih
lqiwfr.ughmr mgrfgjqfwgrwgfmigmzxbgtqfgwqjixcyq.qwg.ui,gm.hgf.gwjiub
rfagFmqwgmrwgd.xzygvx.qubgrwgfzpiugcx.dgqubixgmrwgciifagFmi
.jj.xfqurfriwg.cgyrsruvgzxigbrdrurwmibgrugjx.j.xfr.ugzwghmzfgzxig zyyib
fmig“dizuw”gzxigru xizwibagFmigtiwfgfmruvgzgdzug zugb.gc.xgmrwg qyfqxi
hmiugmigrwgxr mgrwgf.giubizs.xgf.g zxxng.qfgfm.wigw midiwghmr mgmi
iufixfzruibghmiugmighzwgj..xag mxrwfgzuwhixibgfmigMix.brzuwgz  .xbruv
f.gfmirxg .ubrfr.uag“Wm.hgdigfmigfxrtqfi-d.uin,”gwzrbgmi;—zubg.uigf..p
zgjiuung.qfg.cgmrwgj. pif;—rcgn.qgqwigd.uinghmr mgmzwgfmigrdzvig.c
 æwzxg.ugrf,gzubghmr mgmigmzwgdzbig qxxiufgzubgszyqztyi,gfmzfgrw,g_rc
n.qgzxigdiug.cgfmigWfzfi_,gzubgvyzbyngiuk.ngfmigzbszufzviwg.cg æwzx’w
v.sixudiuf,gfmiugjzngmrdgtz pgw.dig.cgmrwg.hughmiugmigbidzubwgrf;
“Xiubixgfmixic.xigf.g æwzxgfmzfghmr mgrwg æwzx’wgzubgf.gV.bgfm.wi
fmruvwghmr mgzxigV.b’w,”—yizsruvgfmidgu.ghrwixgfmzugtic.xigzwgf.ghmr m
hzwghmr m;gc.xgfmingbrbgu.fghrwmgf.gpu.ha

HmiugRg .usixwighrfmgfmigcxiiwfg.cgdnguirvmt.xw,gRgjix irsigfmzf,
hmzfisixgfmingdzngwzngzt.qfgfmigdzvurfqbigzubgwixr.qwuiwwg.cgfmi
lqiwfr.u,gzubgfmirxgxivzxbgc.xgfmigjqtyr gfxzulqryyrfn,gfmigy.uvgzub
fmigwm.xfg.cgfmigdzffixgrw,gfmzfgfming zuu.fgwjzxigfmigjx.fi fr.ug.c
fmigiorwfruvgv.sixudiuf,gzubgfmingbxizbgfmig .uwilqiu iwg.c
brw.tibriu igf.grfgf.gfmirxgjx.jixfngzubgczdryriwagC.xgdng.hugjzxf,gR
wm.qybgu.fgyrpigf.gfmrupgfmzfgRgisixgxiyng.ugfmigjx.fi fr.ug.cgfmi
WfzfiagTqf,grcgRgbiungfmigzqfm.xrfng.cgfmigWfzfighmiugrfgjxiwiufwgrfw
fzo-tryy,grfghryygw..ugfzpigzubghzwfigzyygdngjx.jixfn,gzubgw.gmzxzwwgdi
zubgdng mrybxiughrfm.qfgiubagFmrwgrwgmzxbagFmrwgdzpiwgrfgrdj.wwrtyigc.x
zgdzugf.gyrsigm.uiwfyngzubgzfgfmigwzdigfrdig .dc.xfztyngrug.qfhzxb
xiwji fwagRfghryygu.fgtigh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gz  qdqyzfigjx.jixfn;gfmzf
h.qybgtigwqxigf.gv.gzvzruagN.qgdqwfgmrxig.xgwlqzfgw.dihmixi,gzubgxzrwi
tqfgzgwdzyyg x.j,gzubgizfgfmzfgw..uagN.qgdqwfgyrsighrfmrugn.qxwiyc,gzub
bijiubgqj.ugn.qxwiyc,gzyhznwgfq pibgqjgzubgxizbngc.xgzgwfzxf,gzubgu.f
mzsigdzungzcczrxwagZgdzugdzngvx.hgxr mgrugFqxpingisiu,grcgmighryygtigru
zyygxiwji fwgzgv..bgwqtki fg.cgfmigFqxprwmgv.sixudiufag .ucq rqw
wzrb,—“RcgzgWfzfigrwgv.sixuibgtngfmigjxru rjyiwg.cgxizw.u,gj.sixfngzub
drwixngzxigwqtki fwg.cgwmzdi;grcgzgWfzfigrwgu.fgv.sixuibgtngfmi
jxru rjyiwg.cgxizw.u,gxr miwgzubgm.u.xwgzxigfmigwqtki fwg.cgwmzdia”gU.:
qufrygRghzufgfmigjx.fi fr.ug.cgDzwwz mqwiffwgf.gtigiofiubibgf.gdigru
w.digbrwfzufgw.qfmixugj.xf,ghmixigdngyrtixfngrwgiubzuvixib,g.xgqufrygR
zdgtiufgw.yiyng.ugtqrybruvgqjgzugiwfzfigzfgm.digtngjiz icqygiufixjxrwi,
Rg zugzcc.xbgf.gxicqwigzyyivrzu igf.gDzwwz mqwiffw,gzubgmixgxrvmfgf.gdn
jx.jixfngzubgyrciagRfg .wfwgdigyiwwgrugisixngwiuwigf.gru qxgfmigjiuzyfn
.cgbrw.tibriu igf.gfmigWfzfi,gfmzugrfgh.qybgf.g.tinagRgwm.qybgciiygzw
rcgRghixigh.xfmgyiwwgrugfmzfg zwia

W.dignizxwgzv.,gfmigWfzfigdifgdigrugtimzycg.cgfmig mqx m,gzubg .ddzubib
digf.gjzngzg ixfzrugwqdgf.hzxbgfmigwqjj.xfg.cgzg yixvndzughm.wi
jxiz mruvgdngczfmixgzffiubib,gtqfguisixgRgdnwiycag“Jzngrf,”grfgwzrb,
“.xgtigy. pibgqjgrugfmigkzrya”gRgbi yruibgf.gjznagTqf,gquc.xfquzfiyn,
zu.fmixgdzugwzhgcrfgf.gjzngrfagRgbrbgu.fgwiighmngfmigw m..ydzwfix
wm.qybgtigfzoibgf.gwqjj.xfgfmigjxriwf,gzubgu.fgfmigjxriwfgfmi
w m..ydzwfix;gc.xgRghzwgu.fgfmigWfzfi’wgw m..ydzwfix,gtqfgRgwqjj.xfib
dnwiycgtngs.yqufzxngwqtw xrjfr.uagRgbrbgu.fgwiighmngfmigyn iqdgwm.qyb
u.fgjxiwiufgrfwgfzo-tryy,gzubgmzsigfmigWfzfigf.gtz pgrfwgbidzub,gzw
hiyygzwgfmig mqx magM.hisix,gzfgfmigxilqiwfg.cgfmigwiyi fdiu,gR
 .ubiw iubibgf.gdzpigw.digwq mgwfzfidiufgzwgfmrwgrughxrfruv:—“Pu.hgzyy
diugtngfmiwigjxiwiufw,gfmzfgR,gMiuxngFm.xizq,gb.gu.fghrwmgf.gti
xivzxbibgzwgzgdidtixg.cgzungru .xj.xzfibgw. rifnghmr mgRgmzsigu.f
k.ruiba”gFmrwgRgvzsigf.gfmigf.hu- yixp;gzubgmigmzwgrfagFmigWfzfi,
mzsruvgfmqwgyizxuibgfmzfgRgbrbgu.fghrwmgf.gtigxivzxbibgzwgzgdidtixg.c
fmzfg mqx m,gmzwguisixgdzbigzgyrpigbidzubg.ugdigwru i;gfm.qvmgrfgwzrb
fmzfgrfgdqwfgzbmixigf.grfwg.xrvruzygjxiwqdjfr.ugfmzfgfrdiagRcgRgmzb
pu.hugm.hgf.guzdigfmid,gRgwm.qybgfmiugmzsigwrvuibg.ccgrugbifzrygcx.d
zyygfmigw. rifriwghmr mgRguisixgwrvuibg.ugf.;gtqfgRgbrbgu.fgpu.hghmixi
f.gcrubgwq mgzg .djyifigyrwfa

Rgmzsigjzrbgu.gj.yy-fzogc.xgwrognizxwagRghzwgjqfgruf.gzgkzryg.u ig.u
fmrwgz  .quf,gc.xg.uigurvmf;gzub,gzwgRgwf..bg .uwrbixruvgfmighzyywg.c
w.yrbgwf.ui,gfh.g.xgfmxiigciifgfmr p,gfmigb..xg.cgh..bgzubgrx.u,gzgc..f
fmr p,gzubgfmigrx.ugvxzfruvghmr mgwfxzruibgfmigyrvmf,gRg .qybgu.fgmiyj
tiruvgwfxq pghrfmgfmigc..yrwmuiwwg.cgfmzfgruwfrfqfr.ughmr mgfxizfibgdi
zwgrcgRghixigdixigcyiwmgzubgty..bgzubgt.uiw,gf.gtigy. pibgqjagR
h.ubixibgfmzfgrfgwm.qybgmzsig .u yqbibgzfgyiuvfmgfmzfgfmrwghzwgfmigtiwf
qwigrfg .qybgjqfgdigf.,gzubgmzbguisixgfm.qvmfgf.gzszrygrfwiycg.cgdn
wixsr iwgrugw.dighznagRgwzhgfmzf,grcgfmixighzwgzghzyyg.cgwf.uigtifhiiu
digzubgdngf.huwdiu,gfmixighzwgzgwfryygd.xigbrccr qyfg.uigf.g yrdtg.x
txizpgfmx.qvm,gtic.xigfming .qybgvifgf.gtigzwgcxiigzwgRghzwagRgbrbgu.x
c.xgzgd.diufgciiyg .ucruib,gzubgfmighzyywgwiidibgzgvxizfghzwfig.cgwf.ui
zubgd.xfzxagRgciyfgzwgrcgRgzy.uig.cgzyygdngf.huwdiugmzbgjzrbgdngfzoa
Fmingjyzruyngbrbgu.fgpu.hgm.hgf.gfxizfgdi,gtqfgtimzsibgyrpigjixw.uwghm.
zxigqubixtxibagRugisixngfmxizfgzubgrugisixng .djyrdiufgfmixighzwgz
tyqubix;gc.xgfmingfm.qvmfgfmzfgdng mricgbiwrxighzwgf.gwfzubgfmig.fmix
wrbig.cgfmzfgwf.uighzyyagRg .qybgu.fgtqfgwdryigf.gwiigm.hgrubqwfxr.qwyn
fmingy. pibgfmigb..xg.ugdngdibrfzfr.uw,ghmr mgc.yy.hibgfmidg.qfgzvzru
hrfm.qfgyifg.xgmrubxzu i,gzubg_fmin_ghixigxizyyngzyygfmzfghzw
bzuvix.qwagZwgfming .qybgu.fgxiz mgdi,gfmingmzbgxiw.ysibgf.gjqurwmgdn
t.bn;gkqwfgzwgt.nw,grcgfming zuu.fg .digzfgw.digjixw.ugzvzruwfghm.d
fmingmzsigzgwjrfi,ghryygztqwigmrwgb.vagRgwzhgfmzfgfmigWfzfighzw
mzyc-hrffib,gfmzfgrfghzwgfrdrbgzwgzgy.uigh.dzughrfmgmixgwrysixgwj..uw,
zubgfmzfgrfgbrbgu.fgpu.hgrfwgcxriubwgcx.dgrfwgc.iw,gzubgRgy.wfgzyygdn
xidzruruvgxiwji fgc.xgrf,gzubgjrfribgrfa

Fmqwgfmigwfzfiguisixgrufiufr.uzyyng .ucx.ufwgzgdzu’wgwiuwi,
rufiyyi fqzyg.xgd.xzy,gtqfg.uyngmrwgt.bn,gmrwgwiuwiwagRfgrwgu.fgzxdib
hrfmgwqjixr.xghrfg.xgm.uiwfn,gtqfghrfmgwqjixr.xgjmnwr zygwfxiuvfmagR
hzwgu.fgt.xugf.gtigc.x ibagRghryygtxizfmigzcfixgdng.hugczwmr.uagYifgqw
wiighm.grwgfmigwfx.uviwfagHmzfgc.x igmzwgzgdqyfrfqbi?gFming.uyng zu
c.x igdighm.g.tingzgmrvmixgyzhgfmzugRagFmingc.x igdigf.gti .digyrpi
fmidwiysiwagRgb.gu.fgmizxg.cg_diu_gtiruvg_c.x ib_gf.gyrsigfmrwghzng.x
fmzfgtngdzwwiwg.cgdiuagHmzfgw.xfg.cgyrcighixigfmzfgf.gyrsi?gHmiugRgdiif
zgv.sixudiufghmr mgwznwgf.gdi,g“N.qxgd.uing.xgn.qxgyrci,”ghmngwm.qybgR
tigrugmzwfigf.gvrsigrfgdngd.uin?gRfgdzngtigrugzgvxizfgwfxzrf,gzubgu.f
pu.hghmzfgf.gb.:gRg zuu.fgmiyjgfmzfagRfgdqwfgmiyjgrfwiyc;gb.gzwgRgb.a
Rfgrwgu.fgh.xfmgfmighmryigf.gwursiygzt.qfgrfagRgzdgu.fgxiwj.uwrtyigc.x
fmigwq  iwwcqygh.xpruvg.cgfmigdz mruixng.cgw. rifnagRgzdgu.fgfmigw.ug.c
fmigiuvruiixagRgjix irsigfmzf,ghmiugzugz .xugzubgzg miwfuqfgczyygwrbi
tngwrbi,gfmig.uigb.iwgu.fgxidzrugruixfgf.gdzpighzngc.xgfmig.fmix,gtqf
t.fmg.tingfmirxg.hugyzhw,gzubgwjxruvgzubgvx.hgzubgcy.qxrwmgzwgtiwfgfmin
 zu,gfryyg.ui,gjix mzu i,g.sixwmzb.hwgzubgbiwfx.nwgfmig.fmixagRcgz
jyzufg zuu.fgyrsigz  .xbruvgf.grfwguzfqxi,grfgbriw;gzubgw.gzgdzua



Fmigurvmfgrugjxrw.ughzwgu.siygzubgrufixiwfruvgiu.qvmagFmigjxrw.uixwgru
fmirxgwmrxf-wyiisiwghixigiuk.nruvgzg mzfgzubgfmigisiuruvgzrxgrugfmi
b..x-hzn,ghmiugRgiufixibagTqfgfmigkzryixgwzrb,g“ .di,gt.nw,grfgrwgfrdi
f.gy. pgqj;”gzubgw.gfmingbrwjixwib,gzubgRgmizxbgfmigw.qubg.cgfmirx
wfijwgxifqxuruvgruf.gfmigm.yy.hgzjzxfdiufwagDngx..d-dzfighzwgrufx.bq ib
f.gdigtngfmigkzryixgzwg“zgcrxwf-xzfigciyy.hgzubgzg yisixgdzua”gHmiugfmi
b..xghzwgy. pib,gmigwm.hibgdighmixigf.gmzuvgdngmzf,gzubgm.hgmigdzuzvib
dzffixwgfmixiagFmigx..dwghixighmrfihzwmibg.u igzgd.ufm;gzubgfmrwg.ui,
zfgyizwf,ghzwgfmighmrfiwf,gd.wfgwrdjyngcqxurwmib,gzubgjx.tztyngfmi
uizfiwfgzjzxfdiufgrugf.huagMiguzfqxzyynghzufibgf.gpu.hghmixigRg zdi
cx.d,gzubghmzfgtx.qvmfgdigfmixi;gzub,ghmiugRgmzbgf.ybgmrd,gRgzwpibgmrd
rugdngfqxugm.hgmig zdigfmixi,gjxiwqdruvgmrdgf.gtigzugm.uiwfgdzu,g.c
 .qxwi;gzub,gzwgfmigh.xybgv.iw,gRgtiyrisigmighzwag“Hmn,”gwzrbgmi,g“fmin
z  qwigdig.cgtqxuruvgzgtzxu;gtqfgRguisixgbrbgrfa”gZwguizxgzwgRg .qyb
brw .six,gmigmzbgjx.tztyngv.uigf.gtibgrugzgtzxughmiugbxqup,gzubgwd.pib
mrwgjrjigfmixi;gzubgw.gzgtzxughzwgtqxufagMigmzbgfmigxijqfzfr.ug.cgtiruv
zg yisixgdzu,gmzbgtiiugfmixigw.digfmxiigd.ufmwghzrfruvgc.xgmrwgfxrzygf.
 .dig.u,gzubgh.qybgmzsigf.ghzrfgzwgdq mgy.uvix;gtqfgmighzwglqrfi
b.diwfr zfibgzubg .ufiufib,gwru igmigv.fgmrwgt.zxbgc.xgu.fmruv,gzub
fm.qvmfgfmzfgmighzwghiyygfxizfiba

Mig.  qjribg.uighrub.h,gzubgRgfmig.fmix;gzubgRgwzh,gfmzf,grcg.uigwfznib
fmixigy.uv,gmrwgjxru rjzygtqwruiwwgh.qybgtigf.gy..pg.qfgfmighrub.hagR
mzbgw..ugxizbgzyygfmigfxz fwgfmzfghixigyicfgfmixi,gzubgiozdruibghmixi
c.xdixgjxrw.uixwgmzbgtx.piug.qf,gzubghmixigzgvxzfigmzbgtiiugwzhibg.cc,
zubgmizxbgfmigmrwf.xng.cgfmigszxr.qwg.  qjzufwg.cgfmzfgx..d;gc.xgR
c.qubgfmzfgisiugmixigfmixighzwgzgmrwf.xngzubgzgv.wwrjghmr mguisix
 rx qyzfibgtin.ubgfmighzyywg.cgfmigkzryagJx.tztyngfmrwgrwgfmig.uyn
m.qwigrugfmigf.hughmixigsixwiwgzxig .dj.wib,ghmr mgzxigzcfixhzxb
jxrufibgrugzg rx qyzxgc.xd,gtqfgu.fgjqtyrwmibagRghzwgwm.huglqrfigzgy.uv
yrwfg.cgsixwiwghmr mghixig .dj.wibgtngw.dign.quvgdiughm.gmzbgtiiu
bifi fibgrugzugzffidjfgf.giw zji,ghm.gzsiuvibgfmidwiysiwgtngwruvruv
fmida

Rgjqdjibgdngciyy.h-jxrw.uixgzwgbxngzwgRg .qyb,gc.xgcizxgRgwm.qybguisix
wiigmrdgzvzru;gtqfgzfgyiuvfmgmigwm.hibgdighmr mghzwgdngtib,gzubgyicfgdi
f.gty.hg.qfgfmigyzdja

Rfghzwgyrpigfxzsiyyruvgruf.gzgczxg .qufxn,gwq mgzwgRgmzbguisixgioji fib
f.gtim.yb,gf.gyrigfmixigc.xg.uigurvmfagRfgwiidibgf.gdigfmzfgRguisixgmzb
mizxbgfmigf.hu- y. pgwfxrpigtic.xi,gu.xgfmigisiuruvgw.qubwg.cgfmi
sryyzvi;gc.xghigwyijfghrfmgfmighrub.hwg.jiu,ghmr mghixigruwrbigfmi
vxzfruvagRfghzwgf.gwiigdnguzfrsigsryyzvigrugfmigyrvmfg.cgfmigDrbbyi
Zviw,gzubg.qxg .u .xbghzwgfqxuibgruf.gzgXmruigwfxizd,gzubgsrwr.uwg.c
purvmfwgzubg zwfyiwgjzwwibgtic.xigdiagFminghixigfmigs.r iwg.cg.yb
tqxvmixwgfmzfgRgmizxbgrugfmigwfxiifwagRghzwgzugrus.yqufzxngwji fzf.x
zubgzqbrf.xg.cghmzfisixghzwgb.uigzubgwzrbgrugfmigprf miug.cgfmi
zbkz iufgsryyzvi-ruu—zghm.yynguihgzubgxzxigiojixriu igf.gdiagRfghzwgz
 y.wixgsrihg.cgdnguzfrsigf.huagRghzwgczrxyngruwrbig.cgrfagRguisixgmzb
wiiugrfwgruwfrfqfr.uwgtic.xiagFmrwgrwg.uig.cgrfwgji qyrzxgruwfrfqfr.uw;
c.xgrfgrwgzgwmrxigf.huagRgtivzugf.g .djximiubghmzfgrfwgrumztrfzufwghixi
zt.qfa

Rugfmigd.xuruv,g.qxgtxizpczwfwghixigjqfgfmx.qvmgfmigm.yigrugfmigb..x,
rugwdzyyg.ty.uv-wlqzxigfrugjzuw,gdzbigf.gcrf,gzubgm.ybruvgzgjrufg.c
 m. .yzfi,ghrfmgtx.hugtxizb,gzubgzugrx.ugwj..uagHmiugfming zyyibgc.x
fmigsiwwiywgzvzru,gRghzwgvxiiugiu.qvmgf.gxifqxughmzfgtxizbgRgmzbgyicf;
tqfgdng .dxzbigwireibgrf,gzubgwzrbgfmzfgRgwm.qybgyzngfmzfgqjgc.xgyqu m
.xgbruuixagW..ugzcfix,gmighzwgyifg.qfgf.gh.xpgzfgmznruvgrugz
uirvmt.xruvgcriyb,ghmrfmixgmighiufgisixngbzn,gzubgh.qybgu.fgtigtz p
fryygu..u;gw.gmigtzbigdigv..b-bzn,gwznruvgfmzfgmigb.qtfibgrcgmigwm.qyb
wiigdigzvzrua

HmiugRg zdig.qfg.cgjxrw.u,—c.xgw.dig.uigrufixcixib,gzubgjzrbgfmigfzo,—R
brbgu.fgjix irsigfmzfgvxizfg mzuviwgmzbgfzpiugjyz ig.ugfmig .dd.u,gwq m
zwgmig.twixsibghm.ghiufgrugzgn.qfm,gzubgidixvibgzgvxzn-mizbibgdzu;gzub
nifgzg mzuvigmzbgf.gdnginiwg .dig.sixgfmigw iui,—fmigf.hu,gzubgWfzfi,
zubg .qufxn,—vxizfixgfmzugzungfmzfgdixigfrdig .qybgicci fagRgwzhgnif
d.xigbrwfru fyngfmigWfzfigrughmr mgRgyrsibagRgwzhgf.ghmzfgiofiufgfmi
ji.jyigzd.uvghm.dgRgyrsibg .qybgtigfxqwfibgzwgv..bguirvmt.xwgzub
cxriubw;gfmzfgfmirxgcxriubwmrjghzwgc.xgwqddixghizfmixg.uyn;gfmzfgfmin
brbgu.fgvxizfyngjqxj.wigf.gb.gxrvmf;gfmzfgfminghixigzgbrwfru fgxz i
cx.dgdigtngfmirxgjxikqbr iwgzubgwqjixwfrfr.uw,gzwgfmig mruzdiugzub
Dzyznwgzxi;gfmzf,grugfmirxgwz xrcr iwgf.gmqdzurfngfmingxzugu.gxrwpw,
u.fgisiugf.gfmirxgjx.jixfn;gfmzf,gzcfixgzyy,gfminghixigu.fgw.gu.tyigtqf
fmingfxizfibgfmigfmricgzwgmigmzbgfxizfibgfmid,gzubgm.jib,gtngzg ixfzru
.qfhzxbg.twixszu igzubgzgcihgjxznixw,gzubgtnghzypruvgrugzgjzxfr qyzx
wfxzrvmfgfm.qvmgqwiyiwwgjzfmgcx.dgfrdigf.gfrdi,gf.gwzsigfmirxgw.qywa
Fmrwgdzngtigf.gkqbvigdnguirvmt.xwgmzxwmyn;gc.xgRgtiyrisigfmzfgd.wfg.c
fmidgzxigu.fgzhzxigfmzfgfmingmzsigwq mgzugruwfrfqfr.ugzwgfmigkzrygru
fmirxgsryyzvia

Rfghzwgc.xdixyngfmig qwf.dgrug.qxgsryyzvi,ghmiugzgj..xgbitf.xg zdig.qf
.cgkzry,gc.xgmrwgz lqzrufzu iwgf.gwzyqfigmrd,gy..pruvgfmx.qvmgfmirx
cruvixw,ghmr mghixig x.wwibgf.gxijxiwiufgfmigvxzfruvg.cgzgkzryghrub.h,
“M.hgb.gnigb.?”gDnguirvmt.xwgbrbgu.fgfmqwgwzyqfigdi,gtqfgcrxwfgy..pib
zfgdi,gzubgfmiugzfg.uigzu.fmix,gzwgrcgRgmzbgxifqxuibgcx.dgzgy.uv
k.qxuinagRghzwgjqfgruf.gkzrygzwgRghzwgv.ruvgf.gfmigwm.idzpix’wgf.gvifgz
wm.ighmr mghzwgdiubibagHmiugRghzwgyifg.qfgfmiguiofgd.xuruv,gRgjx. iibib
f.gcrurwmgdngixxzub,gzub,gmzsruvgjqfg.ugdngdiubibgwm.i,gk.ruibgz
mq pyitixxngjzxfn,ghm.ghixigrdjzfriufgf.gjqfgfmidwiysiwgqubixgdn
 .ubq f;gzubgrugmzycgzugm.qx,—c.xgfmigm.xwighzwgw..ugfz pyib,—hzwgru
fmigdrbwfg.cgzgmq pyitixxngcriyb,g.ug.uig.cg.qxgmrvmiwfgmryyw,gfh.
dryiwg.cc;gzubgfmiugfmigWfzfighzwgu.hmixigf.gtigwiiua

Fmrwgrwgfmighm.yigmrwf.xng.cg“DngJxrw.uwa”



Rgmzsiguisixgbi yruibgjznruvgfmigmrvmhzngfzo,gti zqwigRgzdgzwgbiwrx.qw
.cgtiruvgzgv..bguirvmt.xgzwgRgzdg.cgtiruvgzgtzbgwqtki f;gzub,gzwgc.x
wqjj.xfruvgw m..yw,gRgzdgb.ruvgdngjzxfgf.gibq zfigdngciyy.h- .qufxndiu
u.hagRfgrwgc.xgu.gjzxfr qyzxgrfidgrugfmigfzo-tryygfmzfgRgxicqwigf.gjzn
rfagRgwrdjynghrwmgf.gxicqwigzyyivrzu igf.gfmigWfzfi,gf.ghrfmbxzhgzub
wfzubgzy..cgcx.dgrfgicci fqzyynagRgb.gu.fg zxigf.gfxz igfmig .qxwig.c
dngb.yyzx,grcgRg .qyb,gfryygrfgtqnwgzgdzu,g.xgzgdqwpifgf.gwm..fg.ui
hrfm,—fmigb.yyzxgrwgruu. iuf,—tqfgRgzdg .u ixuibgf.gfxz igfmigicci fw
.cgdngzyyivrzu iagRugcz f,gRglqrifyngbi yzxighzxghrfmgfmigWfzfi,gzcfix
dngczwmr.u,gfm.qvmgRghryygwfryygdzpigqwigzubgvifghmzfgzbszufzviwg.cgmix
Rg zu,gzwgrwgqwqzygrugwq mg zwiwa

Rcg.fmixwgjzngfmigfzoghmr mgrwgbidzubibg.cgdi,gcx.dgzgwndjzfmnghrfmgfmi
Wfzfi,gfmingb.gtqfghmzfgfmingmzsigzyxizbngb.uigrugfmirxg.hug zwi,g.x
xzfmixgfmingztifgrukqwfr igf.gzgvxizfixgiofiufgfmzugfmigWfzfigxilqrxiwa
Rcgfmingjzngfmigfzogcx.dgzgdrwfzpiugrufixiwfgrugfmigrubrsrbqzygfzoib,
f.gwzsigmrwgjx.jixfng.xgjxisiufgmrwgv.ruvgf.gkzry,grfgrwgti zqwigfmin
mzsigu.fg .uwrbixibghrwiyngm.hgczxgfmingyifgfmirxgjxrszfigciiyruvw
rufixcixighrfmgfmigjqtyr gv..ba

Fmrw,gfmiu,grwgdngj.wrfr.ugzfgjxiwiufagTqfg.uig zuu.fgtigf..gdq mg.u
mrwgvqzxbgrugwq mgzg zwi,gyiwfgmrwgz fr.uwgtigtrzwwibgtng.twfruz n,g.x
zugqubqigxivzxbgc.xgfmig.jrur.uwg.cgdiuagYifgmrdgwiigfmzfgmigb.iwg.uyn
hmzfgtiy.uvwgf.gmrdwiycgzubgf.gfmigm.qxa

Rgfmrupgw.difrdiw,gHmn,gfmrwgji.jyigdizughiyy;gfmingzxig.uyngrvu.xzuf;
fmingh.qybgb.gtiffixgrcgfmingpuihgm.h:ghmngvrsign.qxguirvmt.xwgfmrw
jzrugf.gfxizfgn.qgzwgfmingzxigu.fgru yruibgf.?gTqfgRgfmrup,gzvzru,gfmrw
rwgu.gxizw.ughmngRgwm.qybgb.gzwgfmingb.,g.xgjixdrfg.fmixwgf.gwqccix
dq mgvxizfixgjzrug.cgzgbrccixiufgprubagZvzru,gRgw.difrdiwgwzngf.
dnwiyc,gHmiugdzungdryyr.uwg.cgdiu,ghrfm.qfgmizf,ghrfm.qfgryy-hryy,
hrfm.qfgjixw.uzygciiyruvg.cgzungprub,gbidzubg.cgn.qgzgcihgwmryyruvw
.uyn,ghrfm.qfgfmigj.wwrtryrfn,gwq mgrwgfmirxg .uwfrfqfr.u,g.c
xifxz fruvg.xgzyfixruvgfmirxgjxiwiufgbidzub,gzubghrfm.qfgfmi
j.wwrtryrfn,g.ugn.qxgwrbi,g.cgzjjizygf.gzung.fmixgdryyr.uw,ghmngioj.wi
n.qxwiycgf.gfmrwg.sixhmiydruvgtxqfigc.x i?gN.qgb.gu.fgxiwrwfg .ybgzub
mquvix,gfmighrubwgzubgfmighzsiw,gfmqwg.twfruzfiyn;gn.qglqrifyngwqtdrf
f.gzgfm.qwzubgwrdryzxgui iwwrfriwagN.qgb.gu.fgjqfgn.qxgmizbgruf.gfmi
crxiagTqfgkqwfgrugjx.j.xfr.ugzwgRgxivzxbgfmrwgzwgu.fghm.yyngzgtxqfi
c.x i,gtqfgjzxfyngzgmqdzugc.x i,gzubg .uwrbixgfmzfgRgmzsigxiyzfr.uwgf.
fm.wigdryyr.uwgzwgf.gw.gdzungdryyr.uwg.cgdiu,gzubgu.fg.cgdixigtxqfig.x
ruzurdzfigfmruvw,gRgwiigfmzfgzjjizygrwgj.wwrtyi,gcrxwfgzub
ruwfzufzui.qwyn,gcx.dgfmidgf.gfmigDzpixg.cgfmid,gzub,gwi .ubyn,gcx.d
fmidgf.gfmidwiysiwagTqf,grcgRgjqfgdngmizbgbiyrtixzfiyngruf.gfmigcrxi,
fmixigrwgu.gzjjizygf.gcrxig.xgf.gfmigDzpixg.cgcrxi,gzubgRgmzsig.uyn
dnwiycgf.gtyzdiagRcgRg .qybg .usru igdnwiycgfmzfgRgmzsigzungxrvmfgf.gti
wzfrwcribghrfmgdiugzwgfmingzxi,gzubgf.gfxizfgfmidgz  .xbruvyn,gzubgu.f
z  .xbruv,grugw.digxiwji fw,gf.gdngxilqrwrfr.uwgzubgioji fzfr.uwg.c
hmzfgfmingzubgRg.qvmfgf.gti,gfmiu,gyrpigzgv..bgDqwwqydzugzubgczfzyrwf,
Rgwm.qybgiubizs.xgf.gtigwzfrwcribghrfmgfmruvwgzwgfmingzxi,gzubgwzngrf
rwgfmighryyg.cgV.bagZub,gzt.sigzyy,gfmixigrwgfmrwgbrccixiu igtifhiiu
xiwrwfruvgfmrwgzubgzgjqxiyngtxqfig.xguzfqxzygc.x i,gfmzfgRg zugxiwrwf
fmrwghrfmgw.digicci f;gtqfgRg zuu.fgioji f,gyrpig.xjmiqw,gf.g mzuvigfmi
uzfqxig.cgfmigx. pwgzubgfxiiwgzubgtizwfwa

Rgb.gu.fghrwmgf.glqzxxiyghrfmgzungdzug.xguzfr.uagRgb.gu.fghrwmgf.gwjyrf
mzrxw,gf.gdzpigcruigbrwfru fr.uw,g.xgwifgdnwiycgqjgzwgtiffixgfmzugdn
uirvmt.xwagRgwiipgxzfmix,gRgdzngwzn,gisiugzugio qwigc.xg .uc.xdruvgf.
fmigyzhwg.cgfmigyzubagRgzdgtqfgf..gxizbngf.g .uc.xdgf.gfmidagRubiibgR
mzsigxizw.ugf.gwqwji fgdnwiycg.ugfmrwgmizb;gzubgiz mgnizx,gzwgfmi
fzo-vzfmixixg .diwgx.qub,gRgcrubgdnwiycgbrwj.wibgf.gxisrihgfmigz fwgzub
j.wrfr.ug.cgfmigviuixzygzubgwfzfigv.sixudiufw,gzubgfmigwjrxrfg.cgfmi
ji.jyigf.gbrw .sixgzgjxifiofgc.xg .uc.xdrfna

ggggg“Higdqwfgzcci fg.qxg .qufxngzwg.qxgjzxiufw,
gggggZubgrcgzfgzungfrdighigzyriuzfi
ggggg.qfgy.sig.cgrubqwfxngcx.dgb.ruvgrfgm.u.x,
gggggHigdqwfgxiwji fgicci fwgzubgfiz mgfmigw.qy
gggggDzffixg.cg .uw riu igzubgxiyrvr.u,
gggggZubgu.fgbiwrxig.cgxqyig.xgtiuicrfa”

RgtiyrisigfmzfgfmigWfzfighryygw..ugtigztyigf.gfzpigzyygdngh.xpg.cgfmrw
w.xfg.qfg.cgdngmzubw,gzubgfmiugRgwmzyygtigu.gtiffixgjzfxr.fgfmzugdn
ciyy.h- .qufxndiuagWiiugcx.dgzgy.hixgj.rufg.cgsrih,gfmig .uwfrfqfr.u,
hrfmgzyygrfwgczqyfw,grwgsixngv..b;gfmigyzhgzubgfmig .qxfwgzxigsixn
xiwji fztyi;gisiugfmrwgWfzfigzubgfmrwgZdixr zugv.sixudiufgzxi,grugdzun
xiwji fw,gsixngzbdrxztyi,gzubgxzxigfmruvw,gf.gtigfmzupcqygc.x,gwq mgzw
zgvxizfgdzungmzsigbiw xrtibgfmid;gwiiugcx.dgzgmrvmixgwfryy,gzubgfmi
mrvmiwf,ghm.gwmzyygwznghmzfgfmingzxi,g.xgfmzfgfmingzxigh.xfmgy..pruvgzf
.xgfmrupruvg.cgzfgzyy?

M.hisix,gfmigv.sixudiufgb.iwgu.fg .u ixugdigdq m,gzubgRgwmzyygtiwf.h
fmigcihiwfgj.wwrtyigfm.qvmfwg.ugrfagRfgrwgu.fgdzungd.diufwgfmzfgRgyrsi
qubixgzgv.sixudiuf,gisiugrugfmrwgh.xybagRcgzgdzugrwgfm.qvmf-cxii,
czu n-cxii,grdzvruzfr.u-cxii,gfmzfghmr mg_rwgu.f_guisixgc.xgzgy.uvgfrdi
zjjizxruvg_f.gti_gf.gmrd,gquhrwigxqyixwg.xgxic.xdixwg zuu.fgczfzyyn
rufixxqjfgmrda

Rgpu.hgfmzfgd.wfgdiugfmrupgbrccixiufyngcx.dgdnwiyc;gtqfgfm.wighm.wi
yrsiwgzxigtngjx.ciwwr.ugbis.fibgf.gfmigwfqbng.cgfmiwig.xgprubxib
wqtki fwg .ufiufgdigzwgyrffyigzwgzunagWfzfiwdiugzubgyivrwyzf.xw,
wfzubruvgw.g .djyifiynghrfmrugfmigruwfrfqfr.u,guisixgbrwfru fyngzub
uzpibyngtim.ybgrfagFmingwjizpg.cgd.sruvgw. rifn,gtqfgmzsigu.
xiwfruv-jyz ighrfm.qfgrfagFmingdzngtigdiug.cgzg ixfzrugiojixriu igzub
brw xrdruzfr.u,gzubgmzsigu.gb.qtfgrusiufibgruviur.qwgzubgisiugqwicqy
wnwfidw,gc.xghmr mghigwru ixiyngfmzupgfmid;gtqfgzyygfmirxghrfgzub
qwicqyuiwwgyrighrfmrug ixfzrugu.fgsixnghrbigyrdrfwagFmingzxigh.ufgf.
c.xvifgfmzfgfmigh.xybgrwgu.fgv.sixuibgtngj.yr ngzubgiojibriu nagHitwfix
uisixgv.iwgtimrubgv.sixudiuf,gzubgw.g zuu.fgwjizpghrfmgzqfm.xrfngzt.qf
rfagMrwgh.xbwgzxighrwb.dgf.gfm.wigyivrwyzf.xwghm.g .ufidjyzfigu.
iwwiufrzygxic.xdgrugfmigiorwfruvgv.sixudiuf;gtqfgc.xgfmrupixw,gzub
fm.wighm.gyivrwyzfigc.xgzyygfrdi,gmiguisixg.u igvyzu iwgzfgfmigwqtki fa
Rgpu.hg.cgfm.wighm.wigwixiuigzubghrwigwji qyzfr.uwg.ugfmrwgfmidigh.qyb
w..ugxisizygfmigyrdrfwg.cgmrwgdrub’wgxzuvigzubgm.wjrfzyrfnagNif,
 .djzxibghrfmgfmig mizjgjx.ciwwr.uwg.cgd.wfgxic.xdixw,gzubgfmigwfryy
 mizjixghrwb.dgzubgiy.lqiu ig.cgj.yrfr rzuwgrugviuixzy,gmrwgzxigzyd.wf
fmig.uyngwiuwrtyigzubgszyqztyigh.xbw,gzubghigfmzupgMizsiugc.xgmrda
 .djzxzfrsiyn,gmigrwgzyhznwgwfx.uv,g.xrvruzy,gzub,gzt.sigzyy,
jxz fr zyagWfryygmrwglqzyrfngrwgu.fghrwb.d,gtqfgjxqbiu iagFmigyzhnix’w
fxqfmgrwgu.fgFxqfm,gtqfg .uwrwfiu ng.xgzg .uwrwfiufgiojibriu nagFxqfm
rwgzyhznwgrugmzxd.unghrfmgmixwiyc,gzubgrwgu.fg .u ixuibg mricyngf.
xisizygfmigkqwfr igfmzfgdzng .uwrwfghrfmghx.uv-b.ruvagMighiyygbiwixsiw
f.gtig zyyib,gzwgmigmzwgtiiug zyyib,gfmigBiciubixg.cgfmig .uwfrfqfr.ua
Fmixigzxigxizyyngu.gty.hwgf.gtigvrsiugtngmrdgtqfgbiciuwrsig.uiwagMigrw
u.fgzgyizbix,gtqfgzgc.yy.hixagMrwgyizbixwgzxigfmigdiug.cg’87ag“Rgmzsi
uisixgdzbigzugicc.xf,”gmigwznw,g“zubguisixgjx.j.wigf.gdzpigzugicc.xf;gR
mzsiguisixg .qufiuzu ibgzugicc.xf,gzubguisixgdizugf.g .qufiuzu igzu
icc.xf,gf.gbrwfqxtgfmigzxxzuvidiufgzwg.xrvruzyyngdzbi,gtnghmr mgfmi
szxr.qwgWfzfiwg zdigruf.gfmigQur.ua”gWfryygfmrupruvg.cgfmigwzu fr.u
hmr mgfmig .uwfrfqfr.ugvrsiwgf.gwyzsixn,gmigwznw,g“Ti zqwigrfghzwgjzxf
.cgfmig.xrvruzyg .djz f,—yifgrfgwfzuba”gU.fhrfmwfzubruvgmrwgwji rzy
z qfiuiwwgzubgztryrfn,gmigrwgquztyigf.gfzpigzgcz fg.qfg.cgrfwgdixiyn
j.yrfr zygxiyzfr.uw,gzubgtim.ybgrfgzwgrfgyriwgztw.yqfiyngf.gtigbrwj.wib
.cgtngfmigrufiyyi f,—hmzf,gc.xgruwfzu i,grfgtim.siwgzgdzugf.gb.gmixigru
Zdixr zgf.bznghrfmgxivzxbgf.gwyzsixn,gtqfgsiufqxiw,g.xgrwgbxrsiu,gf.
dzpigw.digwq mgbiwjixzfigzuwhixgzwgfmigc.yy.hruv,ghmryigjx.ciwwruvgf.
wjizpgztw.yqfiyn,gzubgzwgzgjxrszfigdzu,—cx.dghmr mghmzfguihgzub
wruvqyzxg .big.cgw. rzygbqfriwgdrvmfgtigrucixxib?—“Fmigdzuuix,”gwznw
mi,g“rughmr mgfmigv.sixudiufwg.cgfm.wigWfzfiwghmixigwyzsixngiorwfwgzxi
f.gxivqyzfigrf,grwgc.xgfmirxg.hug .uwrbixzfr.u,gqubixgfmi
xiwj.uwrtryrfngf.gfmirxg .uwfrfqiufw,gf.gfmigviuixzygyzhwg.cgjx.jxrifn,
mqdzurfn,gzubgkqwfr i,gzubgf.gV.bagZww. rzfr.uwgc.xdibgiywihmixi,
wjxruvruvgcx.dgzgciiyruvg.cgmqdzurfn,g.xgzung.fmixg zqwi,gmzsigu.fmruv
hmzfisixgf.gb.ghrfmgrfagFmingmzsiguisixgxi irsibgzungiu .qxzvidiufgcx.d
digzubgfminguisixghryya”

Fminghm.gpu.hg.cgu.gjqxixgw.qx iwg.cgfxqfm,ghm.gmzsigfxz ibgqjgrfw
wfxizdgu.gmrvmix,gwfzub,gzubghrwiyngwfzub,gtngfmigTrtyigzubgfmi
 .uwfrfqfr.u,gzubgbxrupgzfgrfgfmixighrfmgxisixiu igzubgmqdzurfn;gtqf
fminghm.gtim.ybghmixigrfg .diwgfxr pyruvgruf.gfmrwgyzpig.xgfmzfgj..y,
vrxbgqjgfmirxgy.ruwg.u igd.xi,gzubg .ufruqigfmirxgjryvxrdzvigf.hzxbgrfw
c.qufzru-mizba

U.gdzughrfmgzgviurqwgc.xgyivrwyzfr.ugmzwgzjjizxibgrugZdixr zagFmingzxi
xzxigrugfmigmrwf.xng.cgfmigh.xybagFmixigzxig.xzf.xw,gj.yrfr rzuw,gzub
iy.lqiufgdiu,gtngfmigfm.qwzub;gtqfgfmigwjizpixgmzwgu.fgnifg.jiuibgmrw
d.qfmgf.gwjizpghm.grwg zjztyig.cgwiffyruvgfmigdq m-sioibglqiwfr.uwg.c
fmigbznagHigy.sigiy.lqiu igc.xgrfwg.hugwzpi,gzubgu.fgc.xgzungfxqfm
hmr mgrfgdzngqffix,g.xgzungmix.rwdgrfgdzngruwjrxiag.qxgyivrwyzf.xwgmzsi
u.fgnifgyizxuibgfmig .djzxzfrsigszyqig.cgcxii-fxzbigzubg.cgcxiib.d,g.c
qur.u,gzubg.cgxi frfqbi,gf.gzguzfr.uagFmingmzsigu.gviurqwg.xgfzyiufgc.x
 .djzxzfrsiyngmqdtyiglqiwfr.uwg.cgfzozfr.ugzubgcruzu i,g .ddix igzub
dzuqcz fqxiwgzubgzvxr qyfqxiagRcghighixigyicfgw.yiyngf.gfmigh.xbnghrf
.cgyivrwyzf.xwgrug .uvxiwwgc.xg.qxgvqrbzu i,gqu .xxi fibgtngfmi
wizw.uztyigiojixriu igzubgfmigicci fqzyg .djyzrufwg.cgfmigji.jyi,
Zdixr zgh.qybgu.fgy.uvgxifzrugmixgxzupgzd.uvgfmiguzfr.uwagC.xgirvmfiiu
mqubxibgnizxw,gfm.qvmgjix mzu igRgmzsigu.gxrvmfgf.gwzngrf,gfmigUih
Fiwfzdiufgmzwgtiiughxrffiu;gnifghmixigrwgfmigyivrwyzf.xghm.gmzwghrwb.d
zubgjxz fr zygfzyiufgiu.qvmgf.gzszrygmrdwiycg.cgfmigyrvmfghmr mgrf
wmibwg.ugfmigw riu ig.cgyivrwyzfr.ua

Fmigzqfm.xrfng.cgv.sixudiuf,gisiugwq mgzwgRgzdghryyruvgf.gwqtdrf
f.,—c.xgRghryyg miixcqyyng.tingfm.wighm.gpu.hgzubg zugb.gtiffixgfmzugR,
zubgrugdzungfmruvwgisiugfm.wighm.guirfmixgpu.hgu.xg zugb.gw.ghiyy,—rw
wfryygzugrdjqxig.ui:gf.gtigwfxr fyngkqwf,grfgdqwfgmzsigfmigwzu fr.ugzub
 .uwiufg.cgfmigv.sixuibagRfg zugmzsigu.gjqxigxrvmfg.sixgdngjixw.ugzub
jx.jixfngtqfghmzfgRg .u ibigf.grfagFmigjx.vxiwwgcx.dgzugztw.yqfigf.gz
yrdrfibgd.uzx mn,gcx.dgzgyrdrfibgd.uzx mngf.gzgbid. xz n,grwgzgjx.vxiww
f.hzxbgzgfxqigxiwji fgc.xgfmigrubrsrbqzyagIsiugfmig mruiwigjmry.w.jmix
hzwghrwigiu.qvmgf.gxivzxbgfmigrubrsrbqzygzwgfmigtzwrwg.cgfmigidjrxiagRw
zgbid. xz n,gwq mgzwghigpu.hgrf,gfmigyzwfgrdjx.sidiufgj.wwrtyigru
v.sixudiuf?gRwgrfgu.fgj.wwrtyigf.gfzpigzgwfijgcqxfmixgf.hzxbw
xi .vureruvgzubg.xvzureruvgfmigxrvmfwg.cgdzu?gFmixighryyguisixgtigz
xizyyngcxiigzubgiuyrvmfiuibgWfzfi,gqufrygfmigWfzfig .diwgf.gxi .vurei
fmigrubrsrbqzygzwgzgmrvmixgzubgrubijiubiufgj.hix,gcx.dghmr mgzyygrfw
.hugj.hixgzubgzqfm.xrfngzxigbixrsib,gzubgfxizfwgmrdgz  .xbruvynagR
jyizwigdnwiycghrfmgrdzvruruvgzgWfzfigzfgyzwfghmr mg zugzcc.xbgf.gti
kqwfgf.gzyygdiu,gzubgf.gfxizfgfmigrubrsrbqzyghrfmgxiwji fgzwgz
uirvmt.x;ghmr mgisiugh.qybgu.fgfmrupgrfgru .uwrwfiufghrfmgrfwg.hu
xij.wi,grcgzgcihghixigf.gyrsigzy..cgcx.dgrf,gu.fgdibbyruvghrfmgrf,gu.x
idtxz ibgtngrf,ghm.gcqycryyibgzyygfmigbqfriwg.cguirvmt.xwgzub
ciyy.h-diuagZgWfzfighmr mgt.xigfmrwgprubg.cgcxqrf,gzubgwqccixibgrfgf.
bx.jg.ccgzwgczwfgzwgrfgxrjiuib,gh.qybgjxijzxigfmighzngc.xgzgwfryygd.xi
jixci fgzubgvy.xr.qwgWfzfi,ghmr mgzyw.gRgmzsigrdzvruib,gtqfgu.fgnif
zunhmixigwiiua


Iubg.cgFmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgIfiofg.cgHzybiu,gzubg.ugFmigBqfng.cg rsry
Brw.tibriu i,gtngMiuxngBzsrbgFm.xizq


***gIUBg.CgFMRWgJX.KI FgVQFIUTIXVgIT..PgHZYBIUg***

*****gFmrwgcryigwm.qybgtiguzdibg205-0afofg.xg205-0aerjg*****
Fmrwgzubgzyygzww. rzfibgcryiwg.cgszxr.qwgc.xdzfwghryygtigc.qubgru:
mffj://hhhavqfiutixva.xv/2/0/205/

Jx.bq ibgtngKqbrfmgT.ww,gzubgBzsrbgHrbvix

Qjbzfibgibrfr.uwghryygxijyz igfmigjxisr.qwg.ui--fmig.ybgibrfr.uwghryy
tigxiuzdiba

 xizfruvgfmigh.xpwgcx.dgjxrufgibrfr.uwgu.fgjx.fi fibgtngQaWag .jnxrvmf
yzhgdizuwgfmzfgu.g.uig.huwgzgQurfibgWfzfiwg .jnxrvmfgrugfmiwigh.xpw,
w.gfmigC.qubzfr.ug(zubgn.q!)g zug .jngzubgbrwfxrtqfigrfgrugfmigQurfib
Wfzfiwghrfm.qfgjixdrwwr.ugzubghrfm.qfgjznruvg .jnxrvmf
x.nzyfriwagWji rzygxqyiw,gwifgc.xfmgrugfmigViuixzygFixdwg.cgQwigjzxf
.cgfmrwgyr iuwi,gzjjyngf.g .jnruvgzubgbrwfxrtqfruvgJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwgf.gjx.fi fgfmigJX.KI FgVQFIUTIXV-fd
 .u ijfgzubgfxzbidzxpagJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgrwgzgxivrwfixibgfxzbidzxp,
zubgdzngu.fgtigqwibgrcgn.qg mzxvigc.xgfmigiT..pw,gquyiwwgn.qgxi irsi
wji rcr gjixdrwwr.uagRcgn.qgb.gu.fg mzxvigzunfmruvgc.xg .jriwg.cgfmrw
iT..p,g .djynruvghrfmgfmigxqyiwgrwgsixngizwnagN.qgdzngqwigfmrwgiT..p
c.xguizxyngzungjqxj.wigwq mgzwg xizfr.ug.cgbixrszfrsigh.xpw,gxij.xfw,
jixc.xdzu iwgzubgxiwizx magFmingdzngtigd.brcribgzubgjxrufibgzubgvrsiu
zhzn--n.qgdzngb.gjxz fr zyyngZUNFMRUVgrugfmigQurfibgWfzfiwghrfmgiT..pw
u.fgjx.fi fibgtngQaWag .jnxrvmfgyzhagXibrwfxrtqfr.ugrwgwqtki fgf.gfmi
fxzbidzxpgyr iuwi,giwji rzyyng .ddix rzygxibrwfxrtqfr.ua

WFZXF:gCQYYgYR IUWI

FMIgCQYYgJX.KI FgVQFIUTIXVgYR IUWI
JYIZWIgXIZBgFMRWgTIC.XIgN.QgBRWFXRTQFIg.XgQWIgFMRWgH.XP

F.gjx.fi fgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgdrwwr.ug.cgjx.d.fruvgfmigcxii
brwfxrtqfr.ug.cgiyi fx.ur gh.xpw,gtngqwruvg.xgbrwfxrtqfruvgfmrwgh.xp
(.xgzung.fmixgh.xpgzww. rzfibgrugzunghznghrfmgfmigjmxzwig"Jx.ki f
Vqfiutixv"),gn.qgzvxiigf.g .djynghrfmgzyygfmigfixdwg.cgfmigCqyy
Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwigzszryztyighrfmgfmrwgcryig.xg.uyruigzf
hhhavqfiutixva.xv/yr iuwia

Wi fr.ug1agViuixzygFixdwg.cgQwigzubgXibrwfxrtqfruvgJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpw

1aZagTngxizbruvg.xgqwruvgzungjzxfg.cgfmrwgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
iyi fx.ur gh.xp,gn.qgrubr zfigfmzfgn.qgmzsigxizb,gqubixwfzub,gzvxiigf.
zubgz  ijfgzyygfmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgyr iuwigzubgrufiyyi fqzygjx.jixfn
(fxzbidzxp/ .jnxrvmf)gzvxiidiufagRcgn.qgb.gu.fgzvxiigf.gztrbigtngzyy
fmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gn.qgdqwfg izwigqwruvgzubgxifqxug.x
biwfx.ngzyyg .jriwg.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwgrugn.qx
j.wwiwwr.uagRcgn.qgjzrbgzgciigc.xg.tfzruruvgzg .jng.cg.xgz  iwwgf.gz
Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpgzubgn.qgb.gu.fgzvxiigf.gtigt.qub
tngfmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gn.qgdzng.tfzrugzgxicqubgcx.dgfmi
jixw.ug.xgiufrfngf.ghm.dgn.qgjzrbgfmigciigzwgwifgc.xfmgrugjzxzvxzjm
1aIa8a

1aTag"Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv"grwgzgxivrwfixibgfxzbidzxpagRfgdzng.uyngti
qwibg.ug.xgzww. rzfibgrugzunghznghrfmgzugiyi fx.ur gh.xpgtngji.jyighm.
zvxiigf.gtigt.qubgtngfmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufagFmixigzxigzgcih
fmruvwgfmzfgn.qg zugb.ghrfmgd.wfgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpw
isiughrfm.qfg .djynruvghrfmgfmigcqyygfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufagWii
jzxzvxzjmg1a gtiy.hagFmixigzxigzgy.fg.cgfmruvwgn.qg zugb.ghrfmgJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwgrcgn.qgc.yy.hgfmigfixdwg.cgfmrw
zvxiidiufgzubgmiyjgjxiwixsigcxiigcqfqxigz  iwwgf.gJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
iyi fx.ur gh.xpwagWiigjzxzvxzjmg1aIgtiy.ha

1a agFmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ug("fmi
C.qubzfr.u"g.xgJVYZC),g.huwgzg .djryzfr.ug .jnxrvmfgrugfmig .yyi fr.u
.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwagUizxyngzyygfmigrubrsrbqzy
h.xpwgrugfmig .yyi fr.ugzxigrugfmigjqtyr gb.dzrugrugfmigQurfib
WfzfiwagRcgzugrubrsrbqzygh.xpgrwgqujx.fi fibgtng .jnxrvmfgyzhgrugfmi
QurfibgWfzfiwgzubgn.qgzxigy. zfibgrugfmigQurfibgWfzfiw,ghigb.gu.f
 yzrdgzgxrvmfgf.gjxisiufgn.qgcx.dg .jnruv,gbrwfxrtqfruv,gjixc.xdruv,
brwjyznruvg.xg xizfruvgbixrszfrsigh.xpwgtzwibg.ugfmigh.xpgzwgy.uvgzw
zyygxicixiu iwgf.gJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgzxigxid.sibag.cg .qxwi,ghigm.ji
fmzfgn.qghryygwqjj.xfgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgdrwwr.ug.cgjx.d.fruv
cxiigz  iwwgf.giyi fx.ur gh.xpwgtngcxiiyngwmzxruvgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
h.xpwgrug .djyrzu ighrfmgfmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufgc.xgpiijruvgfmi
Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdguzdigzww. rzfibghrfmgfmigh.xpagN.qg zugizwryn
 .djynghrfmgfmigfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufgtngpiijruvgfmrwgh.xpgrugfmi
wzdigc.xdzfghrfmgrfwgzffz mibgcqyygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwighmiu
n.qgwmzxigrfghrfm.qfg mzxvighrfmg.fmixwa

1aBagFmig .jnxrvmfgyzhwg.cgfmigjyz ighmixign.qgzxigy. zfibgzyw.gv.sixu
hmzfgn.qg zugb.ghrfmgfmrwgh.xpag .jnxrvmfgyzhwgrugd.wfg .qufxriwgzxi
rugzg .uwfzufgwfzfig.cg mzuviagRcgn.qgzxig.qfwrbigfmigQurfibgWfzfiw,
 mi pgfmigyzhwg.cgn.qxg .qufxngrugzbbrfr.ugf.gfmigfixdwg.cgfmrw
zvxiidiufgtic.xigb.huy.zbruv,g .jnruv,gbrwjyznruv,gjixc.xdruv,
brwfxrtqfruvg.xg xizfruvgbixrszfrsigh.xpwgtzwibg.ugfmrwgh.xpg.xgzun
.fmixgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpagFmigC.qubzfr.ugdzpiwgu.
xijxiwiufzfr.uwg .u ixuruvgfmig .jnxrvmfgwfzfqwg.cgzungh.xpgrugzun
 .qufxng.qfwrbigfmigQurfibgWfzfiwa

1aIagQuyiwwgn.qgmzsigxid.sibgzyygxicixiu iwgf.gJx.ki fgVqfiutixv:

1aIa1agFmigc.yy.hruvgwiufiu i,ghrfmgz frsigyrupwgf.,g.xg.fmix
rddibrzfigz  iwwgf.,gfmigcqyygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwigdqwfgzjjizx
jx.druiufynghmiuisixgzung .jng.cgzgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpg(zungh.xp
.ughmr mgfmigjmxzwig"Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv"gzjjizxw,g.xghrfmghmr mgfmi
jmxzwig"Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv"grwgzww. rzfib)grwgz  iwwib,gbrwjyznib,
jixc.xdib,gsrihib,g .jribg.xgbrwfxrtqfib:

ggFmrwgiT..pgrwgc.xgfmigqwig.cgzun.uigzunhmixigrugfmigQurfibgWfzfiwgzub
ggd.wfg.fmixgjzxfwg.cgfmigh.xybgzfgu.g .wfgzubghrfmgzyd.wfgu.
ggxiwfxr fr.uwghmzfw.isixagN.qgdzng .jngrf,gvrsigrfgzhzng.xgxi-qwigrf
ggqubixgfmigfixdwg.cgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYr iuwigru yqbibghrfmgfmrw
ggiT..pg.xg.uyruigzfghhhavqfiutixva.xvagRcgn.qgzxigu.fgy. zfibgrugfmi
ggQurfibgWfzfiw,gn.q'yygmzsigf.g mi pgfmigyzhwg.cgfmig .qufxnghmixign.q
ggzxigy. zfibgtic.xigqwruvgfmrwgit..pa

1aIa2agRcgzugrubrsrbqzygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpgrw
bixrsibgcx.dgfiofwgu.fgjx.fi fibgtngQaWag .jnxrvmfgyzhg(b.iwgu.f
 .ufzrugzgu.fr igrubr zfruvgfmzfgrfgrwgj.wfibghrfmgjixdrwwr.ug.cgfmi
 .jnxrvmfgm.ybix),gfmigh.xpg zugtig .jribgzubgbrwfxrtqfibgf.gzun.uigru
fmigQurfibgWfzfiwghrfm.qfgjznruvgzungciiwg.xg mzxviwagRcgn.qgzxi
xibrwfxrtqfruvg.xgjx.srbruvgz  iwwgf.gzgh.xpghrfmgfmigjmxzwig"Jx.ki f
Vqfiutixv"gzww. rzfibghrfmg.xgzjjizxruvg.ugfmigh.xp,gn.qgdqwfg .djyn
irfmixghrfmgfmigxilqrxidiufwg.cgjzxzvxzjmwg1aIa1gfmx.qvmg1aIa7g.x
.tfzrugjixdrwwr.ugc.xgfmigqwig.cgfmigh.xpgzubgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
fxzbidzxpgzwgwifgc.xfmgrugjzxzvxzjmwg1aIa8g.xg1aIa9a

1aIa3agRcgzugrubrsrbqzygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpgrwgj.wfib
hrfmgfmigjixdrwwr.ug.cgfmig .jnxrvmfgm.ybix,gn.qxgqwigzubgbrwfxrtqfr.u
dqwfg .djynghrfmgt.fmgjzxzvxzjmwg1aIa1gfmx.qvmg1aIa7gzubgzun
zbbrfr.uzygfixdwgrdj.wibgtngfmig .jnxrvmfgm.ybixagZbbrfr.uzygfixdw
hryygtigyrupibgf.gfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwigc.xgzyygh.xpw
j.wfibghrfmgfmigjixdrwwr.ug.cgfmig .jnxrvmfgm.ybixgc.qubgzfgfmi
tivruuruvg.cgfmrwgh.xpa

1aIa4agB.gu.fgquyrupg.xgbifz mg.xgxid.sigfmigcqyygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
Yr iuwigfixdwgcx.dgfmrwgh.xp,g.xgzungcryiwg .ufzruruvgzgjzxfg.cgfmrw
h.xpg.xgzung.fmixgh.xpgzww. rzfibghrfmgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fda

1aIa5agB.gu.fg .jn,gbrwjyzn,gjixc.xd,gbrwfxrtqfig.xgxibrwfxrtqfigfmrw
iyi fx.ur gh.xp,g.xgzungjzxfg.cgfmrwgiyi fx.ur gh.xp,ghrfm.qf
jx.druiufyngbrwjyznruvgfmigwiufiu igwifgc.xfmgrugjzxzvxzjmg1aIa1ghrfm
z frsigyrupwg.xgrddibrzfigz  iwwgf.gfmigcqyygfixdwg.cgfmigJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwia

1aIa6agN.qgdzng .usixfgf.gzubgbrwfxrtqfigfmrwgh.xpgrugzungtruzxn,
 .djxiwwib,gdzxpibgqj,gu.ujx.jxrifzxng.xgjx.jxrifzxngc.xd,gru yqbruv
zungh.xbgjx. iwwruvg.xgmnjixfiofgc.xdagM.hisix,grcgn.qgjx.srbigz  iww
f.g.xgbrwfxrtqfig .jriwg.cgzgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpgrugzgc.xdzf
.fmixgfmzug"JyzrugSzuryyzgZW RR"g.xg.fmixgc.xdzfgqwibgrugfmig.ccr rzy
sixwr.ugj.wfibg.ugfmig.ccr rzygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdghitgwrfi
(hhhavqfiutixva.xv),gn.qgdqwf,gzfgu.gzbbrfr.uzyg .wf,gciig.xgiojiuwi
f.gfmigqwix,gjx.srbigzg .jn,gzgdizuwg.cgioj.xfruvgzg .jn,g.xgzgdizuw
.cg.tfzruruvgzg .jngqj.ugxilqiwf,g.cgfmigh.xpgrugrfwg.xrvruzyg"Jyzru
SzuryyzgZW RR"g.xg.fmixgc.xdagZungzyfixuzfigc.xdzfgdqwfgru yqbigfmi
cqyygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgYr iuwigzwgwji rcribgrugjzxzvxzjmg1aIa1a

1aIa7agB.gu.fg mzxvigzgciigc.xgz  iwwgf.,gsrihruv,gbrwjyznruv,
jixc.xdruv,g .jnruvg.xgbrwfxrtqfruvgzungJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpw
quyiwwgn.qg .djynghrfmgjzxzvxzjmg1aIa8g.xg1aIa9a

1aIa8agN.qgdzng mzxvigzgxizw.uztyigciigc.xg .jriwg.cg.xgjx.srbruv
z  iwwgf.g.xgbrwfxrtqfruvgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpw
jx.srbibgfmzf

*gN.qgjzngzgx.nzyfngciig.cg20%g.cgfmigvx.wwgjx.crfwgn.qgbixrsigcx.d
ggfmigqwig.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpwg zy qyzfibgqwruvgfmigdifm.b
ggn.qgzyxizbngqwigf.g zy qyzfign.qxgzjjyr ztyigfzoiwagFmigciigrwg.hib
ggf.gfmig.huixg.cgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgfxzbidzxp,gtqfgmigmzw
ggzvxiibgf.gb.uzfigx.nzyfriwgqubixgfmrwgjzxzvxzjmgf.gfmigJx.ki f
ggVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.uagX.nzyfngjzndiufwgdqwfgtigjzrb
gghrfmrug60gbznwgc.yy.hruvgiz mgbzfig.ughmr mgn.qgjxijzxig(.xgzxi
ggyivzyyngxilqrxibgf.gjxijzxi)gn.qxgjixr.br gfzogxifqxuwagX.nzyfn
ggjzndiufwgwm.qybgtig yizxyngdzxpibgzwgwq mgzubgwiufgf.gfmigJx.ki f
ggVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ugzfgfmigzbbxiwwgwji rcribgru
ggWi fr.ug4,g"Ruc.xdzfr.ugzt.qfgb.uzfr.uwgf.gfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv
ggYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ua"

*gN.qgjx.srbigzgcqyygxicqubg.cgzungd.uingjzrbgtngzgqwixghm.gu.frcriw
ggn.qgrughxrfruvg(.xgtngi-dzry)ghrfmrug30gbznwg.cgxi irjfgfmzfgw/mi
ggb.iwgu.fgzvxiigf.gfmigfixdwg.cgfmigcqyygJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
ggYr iuwiagN.qgdqwfgxilqrxigwq mgzgqwixgf.gxifqxug.xgbiwfx.ngzyy
gg .jriwg.cgfmigh.xpwgj.wwiwwibgrugzgjmnwr zygdibrqdgzubgbrw .ufruqi
ggzyygqwig.cgzubgzyygz  iwwgf.g.fmixg .jriwg.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
ggh.xpwa

*gN.qgjx.srbi,grugz  .xbzu ighrfmgjzxzvxzjmg1aCa3,gzgcqyygxicqubg.c
ggzungd.uingjzrbgc.xgzgh.xpg.xgzgxijyz idiufg .jn,grcgzgbici fgrugfmi
ggiyi fx.ur gh.xpgrwgbrw .sixibgzubgxij.xfibgf.gn.qghrfmrug90gbznwg.c
ggxi irjfg.cgfmigh.xpa

*gN.qg .djynghrfmgzyyg.fmixgfixdwg.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufgc.xgcxii
ggbrwfxrtqfr.ug.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xpwa

1aIa9agRcgn.qghrwmgf.g mzxvigzgciig.xgbrwfxrtqfigzgJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpg.xgvx.qjg.cgh.xpwg.ugbrccixiufgfixdwgfmzu
zxigwifgc.xfmgrugfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gn.qgdqwfg.tfzrugjixdrwwr.ugrughxrfruv
cx.dgt.fmgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ugzubgFmi
Jx.ki fgVqfiutixvgFxzbidzxpgYY ,gfmig.huixg.cgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
fxzbidzxpag .ufz fgfmigC.qubzfr.ugzwgwifgc.xfmgrugWi fr.ug3gtiy.ha

1aCa

1aCa1agJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgs.yqufiixwgzubgidjy.niiwgiojiubg .uwrbixztyi
icc.xfgf.grbiufrcn,gb.g .jnxrvmfgxiwizx mg.u,gfxzuw xrtigzubgjx..cxizb
h.xpwgu.fgjx.fi fibgtngQaWag .jnxrvmfgyzhgrug xizfruvgfmigJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdg .yyi fr.uagBiwjrfigfmiwigicc.xfw,gJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
iyi fx.ur gh.xpw,gzubgfmigdibrqdg.ughmr mgfmingdzngtigwf.xib,gdzn
 .ufzrug"Bici fw,"gwq mgzw,gtqfgu.fgyrdrfibgf.,gru .djyifi,gruz  qxzfi
.xg .xxqjfgbzfz,gfxzuw xrjfr.ugixx.xw,gzg .jnxrvmfg.xg.fmix
rufiyyi fqzygjx.jixfngrucxruvidiuf,gzgbici frsig.xgbzdzvibgbrwpg.x
.fmixgdibrqd,gzg .djqfixgsrxqw,g.xg .djqfixg .biwgfmzfgbzdzvig.x
 zuu.fgtigxizbgtngn.qxgilqrjdiufa

1aCa2agYRDRFIBgHZXXZUFN,gBRW YZRDIXg.CgBZDZVIWg-gIo ijfgc.xgfmig"Xrvmf
.cgXijyz idiufg.xgXicqub"gbiw xrtibgrugjzxzvxzjmg1aCa3,gfmigJx.ki f
VqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.u,gfmig.huixg.cgfmigJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgfxzbidzxp,gzubgzung.fmixgjzxfngbrwfxrtqfruvgzgJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpgqubixgfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gbrw yzrdgzyy
yrztryrfngf.gn.qgc.xgbzdzviw,g .wfwgzubgiojiuwiw,gru yqbruvgyivzy
ciiwagN.QgZVXIIgFMZFgN.QgMZSIgU.gXIDIBRIWgC.XgUIVYRVIU I,gWFXR F
YRZTRYRFN,gTXIZ Mg.CgHZXXZUFNg.XgTXIZ Mg.Cg .UFXZ FgIO IJFgFM.WI
JX.SRBIBgRUgJZXZVXZJMg1aCa3agN.QgZVXIIgFMZFgFMIgC.QUBZFR.U,gFMI
FXZBIDZXPg.HUIX,gZUBgZUNgBRWFXRTQF.XgQUBIXgFMRWgZVXIIDIUFgHRYYgU.FgTI
YRZTYIgF.gN.QgC.XgZ FQZY,gBRXI F,gRUBRXI F,g .UWILQIUFRZY,gJQURFRSIg.X
RU RBIUFZYgBZDZVIWgISIUgRCgN.QgVRSIgU.FR Ig.CgFMIgJ.WWRTRYRFNg.CgWQ M
BZDZVIa

1aCa3agYRDRFIBgXRVMFg.CgXIJYZ IDIUFg.XgXICQUBg-gRcgn.qgbrw .sixgz
bici fgrugfmrwgiyi fx.ur gh.xpghrfmrug90gbznwg.cgxi irsruvgrf,gn.qg zu
xi irsigzgxicqubg.cgfmigd.uing(rcgzun)gn.qgjzrbgc.xgrfgtngwiubruvgz
hxrffiugiojyzuzfr.ugf.gfmigjixw.ugn.qgxi irsibgfmigh.xpgcx.dagRcgn.q
xi irsibgfmigh.xpg.ugzgjmnwr zygdibrqd,gn.qgdqwfgxifqxugfmigdibrqd
hrfmgn.qxghxrffiugiojyzuzfr.uagFmigjixw.ug.xgiufrfngfmzfgjx.srbibgn.q
hrfmgfmigbici frsigh.xpgdzngiyi fgf.gjx.srbigzgxijyz idiufg .jngru
yriqg.cgzgxicqubagRcgn.qgxi irsibgfmigh.xpgiyi fx.ur zyyn,gfmigjixw.u
.xgiufrfngjx.srbruvgrfgf.gn.qgdzng m..wigf.gvrsign.qgzgwi .ub
.jj.xfqurfngf.gxi irsigfmigh.xpgiyi fx.ur zyyngrugyriqg.cgzgxicqubagRc
fmigwi .ubg .jngrwgzyw.gbici frsi,gn.qgdzngbidzubgzgxicqubgrughxrfruv
hrfm.qfgcqxfmixg.jj.xfqurfriwgf.gcrogfmigjx.tyida

1aCa4agIo ijfgc.xgfmigyrdrfibgxrvmfg.cgxijyz idiufg.xgxicqubgwifgc.xfm
rugjzxzvxzjmg1aCa3,gfmrwgh.xpgrwgjx.srbibgf.gn.qg'ZW-RW',gHRFMgU.
.FMIXgHZXXZUFRIWg.CgZUNgPRUB,gIOJXIWWg.XgRDJYRIB,gRU YQBRUVgTQFgU.F
YRDRFIBgF.gHZXXZUFRIWg.CgDIX MZUFZTRYRFNg.XgCRFUIWWgC.XgZUNgJQXJ.WIa

1aCa5agW.digwfzfiwgb.gu.fgzyy.hgbrw yzrdixwg.cg ixfzrugrdjyrib
hzxxzufriwg.xgfmigio yqwr.ug.xgyrdrfzfr.ug.cg ixfzrugfnjiwg.c
bzdzviwagRcgzungbrw yzrdixg.xgyrdrfzfr.ugwifgc.xfmgrugfmrwgzvxiidiuf
sr.yzfiwgfmigyzhg.cgfmigwfzfigzjjyr ztyigf.gfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gfmi
zvxiidiufgwmzyygtigrufixjxifibgf.gdzpigfmigdzordqdgbrw yzrdixg.x
yrdrfzfr.ugjixdrffibgtngfmigzjjyr ztyigwfzfigyzhagFmigruszyrbrfng.x
quiuc.x iztryrfng.cgzungjx.srwr.ug.cgfmrwgzvxiidiufgwmzyygu.fgs.rbgfmi
xidzruruvgjx.srwr.uwa

1aCa6agRUBIDURFNg-gN.qgzvxiigf.grubidurcngzubgm.ybgfmigC.qubzfr.u,gfmi
fxzbidzxpg.huix,gzungzviufg.xgidjy.niig.cgfmigC.qubzfr.u,gzun.ui
jx.srbruvg .jriwg.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwgru
z  .xbzu ighrfmgfmrwgzvxiidiuf,gzubgzungs.yqufiixwgzww. rzfibghrfmgfmi
jx.bq fr.u,gjx.d.fr.ugzubgbrwfxrtqfr.ug.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd
iyi fx.ur gh.xpw,gmzxdyiwwgcx.dgzyygyrztryrfn,g .wfwgzubgiojiuwiw,
ru yqbruvgyivzygciiw,gfmzfgzxrwigbrxi fyng.xgrubrxi fyngcx.dgzung.c
fmigc.yy.hruvghmr mgn.qgb.g.xg zqwigf.g.  qx:g(z)gbrwfxrtqfr.ug.cgfmrw
.xgzungJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xp,g(t)gzyfixzfr.u,gd.brcr zfr.u,g.x
zbbrfr.uwg.xgbiyifr.uwgf.gzungJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgh.xp,gzubg( )gzun
Bici fgn.qg zqwia

Wi fr.ug2agRuc.xdzfr.ugzt.qfgfmigDrwwr.ug.cgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd

Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgrwgwnu.und.qwghrfmgfmigcxiigbrwfxrtqfr.ug.c
iyi fx.ur gh.xpwgrugc.xdzfwgxizbztyigtngfmighrbiwfgszxrifng.c
 .djqfixwgru yqbruvg.tw.yifi,g.yb,gdrbbyi-zvibgzubguihg .djqfixwagRf
iorwfwgti zqwig.cgfmigicc.xfwg.cgmqubxibwg.cgs.yqufiixwgzubgb.uzfr.uw
cx.dgji.jyigrugzyyghzypwg.cgyrcia

S.yqufiixwgzubgcruzu rzygwqjj.xfgf.gjx.srbigs.yqufiixwghrfmgfmi
zwwrwfzu igfminguiibgzxig xrfr zygf.gxiz mruvgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd'w
v.zywgzubgiuwqxruvgfmzfgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdg .yyi fr.ughryy
xidzrugcxiiyngzszryztyigc.xgviuixzfr.uwgf.g .diagRug2001,gfmigJx.ki f
VqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ughzwg xizfibgf.gjx.srbigzgwi qxi
zubgjixdzuiufgcqfqxigc.xgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgzubgcqfqxi
viuixzfr.uwagF.gyizxugd.xigzt.qfgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxn
Zx mrsigC.qubzfr.ugzubgm.hgn.qxgicc.xfwgzubgb.uzfr.uwg zugmiyj,gwii
Wi fr.uwg3gzubg4gzubgfmigC.qubzfr.ugruc.xdzfr.ugjzvigzf
hhhavqfiutixva.xv



Wi fr.ug3agRuc.xdzfr.ugzt.qfgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.u

FmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.ugrwgzgu.ugjx.crf
501( )(3)gibq zfr.uzyg .xj.xzfr.ug.xvzureibgqubixgfmigyzhwg.cgfmi
wfzfig.cgDrwwrwwrjjrgzubgvxzufibgfzogioidjfgwfzfqwgtngfmigRufixuzy
XisiuqigWixsr iagFmigC.qubzfr.u'wgIRUg.xgcibixzygfzogrbiufrcr zfr.u
uqdtixgrwg64-6221541ag .ufxrtqfr.uwgf.gfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxn
Zx mrsigC.qubzfr.ugzxigfzogbibq frtyigf.gfmigcqyygiofiufgjixdrffibgtn
QaWagcibixzygyzhwgzubgn.qxgwfzfi'wgyzhwa

FmigC.qubzfr.u'wgjxru rjzyg.ccr igrwgrugCzrxtzupw,gZyzwpz,ghrfmgfmi
dzryruvgzbbxiww:gJ.gT.og750175,gCzrxtzupw,gZPg99775,gtqfgrfw
s.yqufiixwgzubgidjy.niiwgzxigw zffixibgfmx.qvm.qfguqdix.qw
y. zfr.uwagRfwgtqwruiwwg.ccr igrwgy. zfibgzfg809gU.xfmg1500gHiwf,gWzyf
Yzpig rfn,gQFg84116,g(801)g596-1887agIdzryg .ufz fgyrupwgzubgqjgf.
bzfig .ufz fgruc.xdzfr.ug zugtigc.qubgzfgfmigC.qubzfr.u'wghitgwrfigzub
.ccr rzygjzvigzfghhhavqfiutixva.xv/ .ufz f

C.xgzbbrfr.uzyg .ufz fgruc.xdzfr.u:

ggggBxagVxiv.xngTagUihtn
gggg mricgIoi qfrsigzubgBrxi f.x
ggggvtuihtn@jvyzca.xv

Wi fr.ug4agRuc.xdzfr.ugzt.qfgB.uzfr.uwgf.gfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixv
YrfixzxngZx mrsigC.qubzfr.u

Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgbijiubwgqj.ugzubg zuu.fgwqxsrsighrfm.qfghrbi
wjxizbgjqtyr gwqjj.xfgzubgb.uzfr.uwgf.g zxxng.qfgrfwgdrwwr.ug.c
ru xizwruvgfmiguqdtixg.cgjqtyr gb.dzrugzubgyr iuwibgh.xpwgfmzfg zugti
cxiiyngbrwfxrtqfibgrugdz mruigxizbztyigc.xdgz  iwwrtyigtngfmighrbiwf
zxxzng.cgilqrjdiufgru yqbruvg.qfbzfibgilqrjdiufagDzungwdzyygb.uzfr.uw
($1gf.g$5,000)gzxigjzxfr qyzxyngrdj.xfzufgf.gdzrufzruruvgfzogioidjf
wfzfqwghrfmgfmigRXWa

FmigC.qubzfr.ugrwg .ddrffibgf.g .djynruvghrfmgfmigyzhwgxivqyzfruv
 mzxrfriwgzubg mzxrfztyigb.uzfr.uwgrugzyyg50gwfzfiwg.cgfmigQurfib
Wfzfiwag .djyrzu igxilqrxidiufwgzxigu.fgqurc.xdgzubgrfgfzpiwgz
 .uwrbixztyigicc.xf,gdq mgjzjixh.xpgzubgdzungciiwgf.gdiifgzubgpiijgqj
hrfmgfmiwigxilqrxidiufwagHigb.gu.fgw.yr rfgb.uzfr.uwgrugy. zfr.uw
hmixighigmzsigu.fgxi irsibghxrffiug .ucrxdzfr.ug.cg .djyrzu iagF.gWIUB
B.UZFR.UWg.xgbifixdruigfmigwfzfqwg.cg .djyrzu igc.xgzungjzxfr qyzx
wfzfigsrwrfghhhavqfiutixva.xv/b.uzfi

Hmryighig zuu.fgzubgb.gu.fgw.yr rfg .ufxrtqfr.uwgcx.dgwfzfiwghmixighi
mzsigu.fgdifgfmigw.yr rfzfr.ugxilqrxidiufw,ghigpu.hg.cgu.gjx.mrtrfr.u
zvzruwfgz  ijfruvgquw.yr rfibgb.uzfr.uwgcx.dgb.u.xwgrugwq mgwfzfiwghm.
zjjx.z mgqwghrfmg.ccixwgf.gb.uzfia

Rufixuzfr.uzygb.uzfr.uwgzxigvxzficqyyngz  ijfib,gtqfghig zuu.fgdzpi
zungwfzfidiufwg .u ixuruvgfzogfxizfdiufg.cgb.uzfr.uwgxi irsibgcx.d
.qfwrbigfmigQurfibgWfzfiwagQaWagyzhwgzy.uigwhzdjg.qxgwdzyygwfzcca

Jyizwig mi pgfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgHitgjzviwgc.xg qxxiufgb.uzfr.u
difm.bwgzubgzbbxiwwiwagB.uzfr.uwgzxigz  ijfibgrugzguqdtixg.cg.fmix
hznwgru yqbruvg mi pw,g.uyruigjzndiufwgzubg xibrfg zxbgb.uzfr.uwagF.
b.uzfi,gjyizwigsrwrf:ghhhavqfiutixva.xv/b.uzfi

Wi fr.ug5agViuixzygRuc.xdzfr.ugZt.qfgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwa

Jx.ciww.xgDr mziygWagMzxfghzwgfmig.xrvruzf.xg.cgfmigJx.ki f
Vqfiutixv-fdg .u ijfg.cgzgyrtxzxng.cgiyi fx.ur gh.xpwgfmzfg .qybgti
cxiiyngwmzxibghrfmgzun.uiagC.xgc.xfngnizxw,gmigjx.bq ibgzub
brwfxrtqfibgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiT..pwghrfmg.uyngzgy..wiguifh.xpg.c
s.yqufiixgwqjj.xfa

Jx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fdgiT..pwgzxig.cfiug xizfibgcx.dgwisixzygjxrufib
ibrfr.uw,gzyyg.cghmr mgzxig .ucrxdibgzwgu.fgjx.fi fibgtng .jnxrvmfgru
fmigQaWagquyiwwgzg .jnxrvmfgu.fr igrwgru yqbibagFmqw,ghigb.gu.f
ui iwwzxryngpiijgiT..pwgrug .djyrzu ighrfmgzungjzxfr qyzxgjzjix
ibrfr.ua

D.wfgji.jyigwfzxfgzfg.qxgHitgwrfighmr mgmzwgfmigdzrugJVgwizx m
cz ryrfn:ghhhavqfiutixva.xv

FmrwgHitgwrfigru yqbiwgruc.xdzfr.ugzt.qfgJx.ki fgVqfiutixv-fd,
ru yqbruvgm.hgf.gdzpigb.uzfr.uwgf.gfmigJx.ki fgVqfiutixvgYrfixzxn
Zx mrsigC.qubzfr.u,gm.hgf.gmiyjgjx.bq ig.qxguihgiT..pw,gzubgm.hgf.
wqtw xrtigf.g.qxgidzryguihwyiffixgf.gmizxgzt.qfguihgiT..pwa




