
FqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinZDkkunktnFqznFbhcnktnfqznRxhzy,nd nQzch nLjpzr

FqvrnzDkkunvrntkhnfqznbrznktnjc kcznjc yqzhznjfncknxkrfnjcgnyvfq
jwpkrfncknhzrfhvxfvkcrnyqjfrkzozhmn kbnpj nxka nvf,nivoznvfnjyj nkh
hz-brznvfnbcgzhnfqznfzhprnktnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvxzcrznvcxwbgzg
yvfqnfqvrnzDkkunkhnkcwvcznjfnyyymibfzcdzhimkhi


Fvfwz:nFqznFbhcnktnfqznRxhzy

Jbfqkh:nQzch nLjpzr

HzwzjrznGjfz:nLbw n12,n2008n[ZDkkun#209]
WjrfnBagjfzg:nKxfkdzhn23,n2018

Wjcibjiz:nZciwvrq

Xqjhjxfzhnrzfnzcxkgvci:nBFT-8

***nRFJHFnKTnFQVRnAHKLZXFnIBFZCDZHInZDKKUnFQZnFBHCnKTnFQZnRXHZYn***

Ahkgbxzgnd nLbgvfqnDkrr,njcgnGjovgnYvgizh




FqznFbhcnktnfqznRxhzy

d nQzch nLjpzr



Xkcfzcfr


nFQZnFBHCnKTnFQZnRXHZY
nV
nVV
nVVV
nVO
nO
nOV
nOVV
nOVVV
nV.
n.
n.V
n.VV
n.VVV
n.VO
n.O
n.OV
n.OVV
n.OVVV
n.V.
n..
n..V
n..VV
n..VVV
n..VO




FQZnFBHCnKTnFQZnRXHZY

Fqznrfkh nqjgnqzwgnbr,nhkbcgnfqzntvhz,nrbttvxvzcfw ndhzjfqwzrr,ndbf
z.xzafnfqznkdovkbrnhzpjhunfqjfnvfnyjrnihbzrkpz,njr,nkcnXqhvrfpjrnZoznvc
jcnkwgnqkbrz,njnrfhjciznfjwznrqkbwgnzrrzcfvjww ndz,nVnhzpzpdzhnck
xkppzcfnbffzhzgnfvwwnrkpzdkg nqjaazczgnfknrj nfqjfnvfnyjrnfqznkcw nxjrz
qznqjgnpzfnvcnyqvxqnrbxqnjnovrvfjfvkcnqjgntjwwzcnkcnjnxqvwgmnFqznxjrz,
Vnpj npzcfvkc,nyjrnfqjfnktnjcnjaajhvfvkcnvcnlbrfnrbxqnjcnkwgnqkbrznjr
qjgnijfqzhzgnbrntkhnfqznkxxjrvkc—jcnjaazjhjcxz,nktnjnghzjgtbwnuvcg,nfk
jnwvffwzndk nrwzzavcinvcnfqznhkkpnyvfqnqvrnpkfqzhnjcgnyjuvcinqzhnbanvc
fqznfzhhkhnktnvf;nyjuvcinqzhnckfnfkngvrrvajfznqvrnghzjgnjcgnrkkfqznqvp
fknrwzzanjijvc,ndbfnfknzcxkbcfzhnjwrk,nqzhrzwt,ndztkhznrqznqjg
rbxxzzgzgnvcngkvcinrk,nfqznrjpznrviqfnfqjfnqjgnrqjuzcnqvpmnVfnyjrnfqvr
kdrzhojfvkcnfqjfnghzynthkpnGkbiwjr—ckfnvppzgvjfzw ,ndbfnwjfzhnvcnfqz
zozcvci—jnhzaw nfqjfnqjgnfqznvcfzhzrfvcinxkcrzebzcxznfknyqvxqnVnxjww
jffzcfvkcmnRkpzkcznzwrznfkwgnjnrfkh nckfnajhfvxbwjhw nzttzxfvoz,nyqvxq
VnrjynqznyjrnckfntkwwkyvcimnFqvrnVnfkkuntkhnjnrvicnfqjfnqznqjgnqvprzwt
rkpzfqvcinfknahkgbxznjcgnfqjfnyznrqkbwgnkcw nqjoznfknyjvfmnYznyjvfzgnvc
tjxfnfvwwnfykncviqfrnwjfzh;ndbfnfqjfnrjpznzozcvci,ndztkhznyznrxjffzhzg,
qzndhkbiqfnkbfnyqjfnyjrnvcnqvrnpvcgm

“Vnebvfznjihzz—vcnhzijhgnfknIhvttvc’rniqkrf,nkhnyqjfzozhnvfnyjr—fqjf
vfrnjaazjhvcintvhrfnfknfqznwvffwzndk ,njfnrknfzcgzhnjcnjiz,njggrnj
ajhfvxbwjhnfkbxqmnDbfnvf’rnckfnfqzntvhrfnkxxbhhzcxznktnvfrnxqjhpvci
uvcgnfqjfnVnuckynfknqjoznvcokwozgnjnxqvwgmnVtnfqznxqvwgnivozrnfqz
zttzxfnjckfqzhnfbhcnktnfqznrxhzy,nyqjfngkn kbnrj nfkn_fyk_nxqvwghzc—?”

“Yznrj ,nktnxkbhrz,”nrkpzdkg nz.xwjvpzg,n“fqjfnfqz nivoznfyknfbhcr!
Jwrknfqjfnyznyjcfnfknqzjhnjdkbfnfqzpm”

VnxjcnrzznGkbiwjrnfqzhzndztkhznfqzntvhz,nfknyqvxqnqznqjgnikfnbanfk
ahzrzcfnqvrndjxu,nwkkuvcingkycnjfnqvrnvcfzhwkxbfkhnyvfqnqvrnqjcgrnvc
qvrnakxuzfrmn“Ckdkg ndbfnpz,nfvwwncky,nqjrnzozhnqzjhgmnVf’rnebvfznfkk
qkhhvdwzm”nFqvr,ncjfbhjww ,nyjrngzxwjhzgnd nrzozhjwnokvxzrnfknivoznfqz
fqvcinfqznbfpkrfnahvxz,njcgnkbhnthvzcg,nyvfqnebvzfnjhf,nahzajhzgnqvr
fhvbpaqnd nfbhcvcinqvrnz zrnkozhnfqznhzrfnktnbrnjcgnikvcinkc:n“Vf’r
dz kcgnzozh fqvcimnCkfqvcinjfnjwwnfqjfnVnuckynfkbxqzrnvfm”

“Tkhnrqzzhnfzhhkh?”nVnhzpzpdzhnjruvcim

Qznrzzpzgnfknrj nvfnyjrnckfnrknrvpawznjrnfqjf;nfkndznhzjww njfnjnwkrr
qkynfknebjwvt nvfmnQznajrrzgnqvrnqjcgnkozhnqvrnz zr,npjgznjnwvffwz
yvcxvcinihvpjxzmn“Tkhnghzjgtbw—ghzjgtbwczrr!”

“Kq,nqkyngzwvxvkbr!”nxhvzgnkcznktnfqznykpzcm

Qznfkkuncknckfvxznktnqzh;nqznwkkuzgnjfnpz,ndbfnjrnvt,nvcrfzjgnktnpz,nqz
rjynyqjfnqznrakuznktmn“Tkhnizczhjwnbcxjcc nbiwvczrrnjcgnqkhhkhnjcg
ajvcm”

“Yzwwnfqzc,”nVnrjvg,n“lbrfnrvfnhviqfngkycnjcgndzivcm”

Qznfbhczgnhkbcgnfknfqzntvhz,nijoznjnuvxunfknjnwki,nyjfxqzgnvfnjc
vcrfjcfmnFqzcnjrnqzntjxzgnbrnjijvc:n“Vnxjc’fndzivcmnVnrqjwwnqjoznfk
rzcgnfknfkycm”nFqzhznyjrnjnbcjcvpkbrnihkjcnjfnfqvr,njcgnpbxqnhzahkjxq;
jtfzhnyqvxq,nvcnqvrnahzkxxbavzgnyj ,nqznz.awjvczgmn“Fqznrfkh ’r
yhvffzcmnVf’rnvcnjnwkxuzgnghjyzh—vfnqjrnckfndzzcnkbfntkhn zjhrmnVnxkbwg
yhvfznfknp npjcnjcgnzcxwkrznfqznuz ;nqznxkbwgnrzcgngkycnfqznajxuzfnjr
qzntvcgrnvfm”nVfnyjrnfknpznvcnajhfvxbwjhnfqjfnqznjaazjhzgnfknahkakbcg
fqvr—jaazjhzgnjwpkrfnfknjaazjwntkhnjvgnckfnfknqzrvfjfzmnQznqjgndhkuzcnj
fqvxuczrrnktnvxz,nfqzntkhpjfvkcnktnpjc njnyvcfzh;nqjgnqjgnqvrnhzjrkcr
tkhnjnwkcinrvwzcxzmnFqznkfqzhrnhzrzcfzgnakrfakczpzcf,ndbfnvfnyjrnlbrf
qvrnrxhbawzrnfqjfnxqjhpzgnpzmnVnjglbhzgnqvpnfknyhvfznd nfqzntvhrfnakrf
jcgnfknjihzznyvfqnbrntkhnjcnzjhw nqzjhvci;nfqzcnVnjruzgnqvpnvtnfqz
z.azhvzcxznvcnebzrfvkcnqjgndzzcnqvrnkycmnFknfqvrnqvrnjcryzhnyjrnahkpafm
“Kq,nfqjcunIkg,nck!”

“Jcgnvrnfqznhzxkhgn kbhr?n kbnfkkunfqznfqvcingkyc?”

“CkfqvcindbfnfqznvpahzrrvkcmnVnfkkunfqjfn_qzhz_”—qznfjaazgnqvrnqzjhfm
“V’oznczozhnwkrfnvfm”

“Fqzcn kbhnpjcbrxhvaf—?”

“Vrnvcnkwg,ntjgzgnvcu,njcgnvcnfqznpkrfndzjbfvtbwnqjcgm”nQznqbcintvhz
jijvcmn“Jnykpjc’rmnRqznqjrndzzcngzjgnfqzrznfyzcf n zjhrmnRqznrzcfnpz
fqznajizrnvcnebzrfvkcndztkhznrqzngvzgm”nFqz nyzhznjwwnwvrfzcvcincky,
jcgnktnxkbhrznfqzhznyjrnrkpzdkg nfkndznjhxq,nkhnjfnjc nhjfznfknghjynfqz
vctzhzcxzmnDbfnvtnqznabfnfqznvctzhzcxznd nyvfqkbfnjnrpvwznvfnyjrnjwrk
yvfqkbfnvhhvfjfvkcmn“Rqznyjrnjnpkrfnxqjhpvcinazhrkc,ndbfnrqznyjrnfzc
 zjhrnkwgzhnfqjcnVmnRqznyjrnp nrvrfzh’rnikozhczrr,”nqznebvzfw nrjvgm
“RqznyjrnfqznpkrfnjihzzjdwznykpjcnV’oznzozhnuckycnvcnqzhnakrvfvkc;nrqz
ykbwgnqjozndzzcnykhfq nktnjc nyqjfzozhmnVfnyjrnwkcinjik,njcgnfqvr
zavrkgznyjrnwkcindztkhzmnVnyjrnjfnFhvcvf ,njcgnVntkbcgnqzhnjfnqkpznkc
p nxkpvcingkycnfqznrzxkcgnrbppzhmnVnyjrnpbxqnfqzhznfqjfn zjh—vfnyjrnj
dzjbfvtbwnkcz;njcgnyznqjg,nvcnqzhnktt-qkbhr,nrkpznrfhkwwrnjcgnfjwurnvc
fqznijhgzc—fjwurnvcnyqvxqnrqznrfhbxunpznjrnjytbww nxwzozhnjcgncvxzmnKq
 zr;ngkc’fnihvc:nVnwvuzgnqzhnz.fhzpzw njcgnjpniwjgnfknfqvrngj nfknfqvcu
rqznwvuzgnpz,nfkkmnVtnrqznqjgc’fnrqznykbwgc’fnqjoznfkwgnpzmnRqznqjg
czozhnfkwgnjc kczmnVfnyjrc’fnrvpaw nfqjfnrqznrjvgnrk,ndbfnfqjfnVnuczy
rqznqjgc’fmnVnyjrnrbhz;nVnxkbwgnrzzmn kb’wwnzjrvw nlbgiznyq nyqzcn kb
qzjhm”

“Dzxjbrznfqznfqvcinqjgndzzcnrbxqnjnrxjhz?”

Qznxkcfvcbzgnfkntv.npzmn“ kb’wwnzjrvw nlbgiz,”nqznhzazjfzg:n“_ kb_
yvwwm”

Vntv.zgnqvp,nfkkmn“VnrzzmnRqznyjrnvcnwkozm”

Qznwjbiqzgntkhnfqzntvhrfnfvpzmn“ kbn_jhz_njxbfzmn zr,nrqznyjrnvcnwkozm
Fqjfnvr,nrqznqjgndzzcmnFqjfnxjpznkbf—rqznxkbwgc’fnfzwwnqzhnrfkh 
yvfqkbfnvfrnxkpvcinkbfmnVnrjynvf,njcgnrqznrjynVnrjynvf;ndbfnczvfqzhnkt
brnrakuznktnvfmnVnhzpzpdzhnfqznfvpznjcgnfqznawjxz—fqznxkhczhnktnfqz
wjyc,nfqznrqjgznktnfqznihzjfndzzxqzrnjcgnfqznwkci,nqkfnrbppzh
jtfzhckkcmnVfnyjrc’fnjnrxzczntkhnjnrqbggzh;ndbfnkq—!”nQznebvffzgnfqz
tvhznjcgnghkaazgndjxunvcfknqvrnxqjvhm

“ kb’wwnhzxzvoznfqznajxuzfnFqbhrgj npkhcvci?”nVnvcebvhzgm

“Ahkdjdw nckfnfvwwnfqznrzxkcgnakrfm”

“Yzwwnfqzc;njtfzhngvcczh—”

“ kb’wwnjwwnpzzfnpznqzhz?”nQznwkkuzgnbrnhkbcgnjijvcmn“Vrc’fnjc dkg 
ikvci?”nVfnyjrnjwpkrfnfqznfkcznktnqkazm

“Zozh dkg nyvwwnrfj !”

“_V_nyvww”—jcgn“_V_nyvww!”nxhvzgnfqznwjgvzrnyqkrzngzajhfbhznqjgndzzc
tv.zgmnPhrmnIhvttvc,nqkyzozh,nz.ahzrrzgnfqznczzgntkhnjnwvffwznpkhz
wviqfmn“Yqknyjrnvfnrqznyjrnvcnwkoznyvfq?”

“Fqznrfkh nyvwwnfzww,”nVnfkkunbakcnp rzwtnfknhzaw m

“Kq,nVnxjc’fnyjvfntkhnfqznrfkh !”

“Fqznrfkh n_ykc’f_nfzww,”nrjvgnGkbiwjr;n“ckfnvcnjc nwvfzhjw,nobwijh
yj m”

“Pkhz’rnfqznavf ,nfqzcmnFqjf’rnfqznkcw nyj nVnzozhnbcgzhrfjcgm”

“Ykc’fn_ kb_nfzww,nGkbiwjr?”nrkpzdkg nzwrznvcebvhzgm

Qznrahjcinfknqvrntzzfnjijvcmn“ zr—fkpkhhkymnCkynVnpbrfniknfkndzgmnIkkg
cviqfm”nJcgnebvxuw nxjfxqvcinbanjnxjcgwzrfvxu,nqznwztfnbrnrwviqfw 
dzyvwgzhzgmnThkpnkbhnzcgnktnfqznihzjfndhkycnqjwwnyznqzjhgnqvrnrfzankc
fqznrfjvh;nyqzhzbakcnPhrmnIhvttvcnrakuzmn“Yzww,nvtnVngkc’fnuckynyqknrqz
yjrnvcnwkoznyvfq,nVnuckynyqkn_qz_nyjrm”

“Rqznyjrnfzcn zjhrnkwgzh,”nrjvgnqzhnqbrdjcgm

“_Hjvrkcngznawbr_—jfnfqjfnjiz!nDbfnvf’rnhjfqzhncvxz,nqvrnwkci
hzfvxzcxzm”

“Tkhf n zjhr!”nIhvttvcnabfnvcm

“Yvfqnfqvrnkbfdhzjunjfnwjrfm”

“Fqznkbfdhzju,”nVnhzfbhczg,n“yvwwnpjuznjnfhzpzcgkbrnkxxjrvkcnkt
Fqbhrgj ncviqf;”njcgnzozh kcznrknjihzzgnyvfqnpznfqjf,nvcnfqznwviqfnkt
vf,nyznwkrfnjwwnjffzcfvkcntkhnzozh fqvcinzwrzmnFqznwjrfnrfkh ,nqkyzozh
vcxkpawzfznjcgnwvuznfqznpzhznkazcvcinktnjnrzhvjw,nqjgndzzcnfkwg;nyz
qjcgrqkkunjcgn“xjcgwzrfbxu,”njrnrkpzdkg nrjvg,njcgnyzcfnfkndzgm

Vnuczynfqzncz.fngj nfqjfnjnwzffzhnxkcfjvcvcinfqznuz nqjg,nd nfqzntvhrf
akrf,nikcznkttnfknqvrnWkcgkcnjajhfpzcfr;ndbfnvcnravfznkt—khnazhqjar
lbrfnkcnjxxkbcfnkt—fqznzozcfbjwngvttbrvkcnktnfqvrnuckywzgiznyznebvfz
wzfnqvpnjwkcznfvwwnjtfzhngvcczh,nfvwwnrbxqnjcnqkbhnktnfqznzozcvci,nvc
tjxf,njrnpviqfndzrfnjxxkhgnyvfqnfqznuvcgnktnzpkfvkcnkcnyqvxqnkbhnqkazr
yzhzntv.zgmnFqzcnqzndzxjpznjrnxkppbcvxjfvoznjrnyznxkbwgngzrvhznjcg
vcgzzgnijoznbrnqvrndzrfnhzjrkcntkhndzvcinrkmnYznqjgnvfnthkpnqvpnjijvc
dztkhznfqzntvhznvcnfqznqjww,njrnyznqjgnqjgnkbhnpvwgnykcgzhrnktnfqz
ahzovkbrncviqfmnVfnjaazjhzgnfqjfnfqzncjhhjfvoznqznqjgnahkpvrzgnfknhzjg
brnhzjww nhzebvhzgntkhnjnahkazhnvcfzwwvizcxznjntzynykhgrnktnahkwkibzm
Wzfnpznrj nqzhzngvrfvcxfw ,nfknqjozngkcznyvfqnvf,nfqjfnfqvrncjhhjfvoz,
thkpnjcnz.jxfnfhjcrxhvafnktnp nkycnpjgznpbxqnwjfzh,nvrnyqjfnVnrqjww
ahzrzcfw nivozmnAkkhnGkbiwjr,ndztkhznqvrngzjfq—yqzcnvfnyjrnvc
rviqf—xkppvffzgnfknpznfqznpjcbrxhvafnfqjfnhzjxqzgnqvpnkcnfqznfqvhgnkt
fqzrzngj rnjcgnfqjf,nkcnfqznrjpznrakf,nyvfqnvppzcrznzttzxf,nqzndzijcnfk
hzjgnfknkbhnqbrqzgnwvffwznxvhxwznkcnfqzncviqfnktnfqzntkbhfqmnFqz
gzajhfvcinwjgvzrnyqknqjgnrjvgnfqz nykbwgnrfj ngvgc’f,nktnxkbhrz,nfqjcu
qzjozc,nrfj :nfqz ngzajhfzg,nvcnxkcrzebzcxznktnjhhjcizpzcfrnpjgz,nvcnj
hjiznktnxbhvkrvf ,njrnfqz nahktzrrzg,nahkgbxzgnd nfqznfkbxqzrnyvfq
yqvxqnqznqjgnjwhzjg nykhuzgnbrnbamnDbfnfqjfnkcw npjgznqvrnwvffwzntvcjw
jbgvfkh npkhznxkpajxfnjcgnrzwzxf,nuzafnvf,nhkbcgnfqznqzjhfq,nrbdlzxfnfk
jnxkppkcnfqhvwwm

Fqzntvhrfnktnfqzrznfkbxqzrnxkcoz zgnfqjfnfqznyhvffzcnrfjfzpzcfnfkkunba
fqznfjwznjfnjnakvcfnjtfzhnvfnqjg,nvcnjnpjcczh,ndzibcmnFqzntjxfnfkndznvc
akrrzrrvkcnktnyjrnfqzhztkhznfqjfnqvrnkwgnthvzcg,nfqzn kbcizrfnkt
rzozhjwngjbiqfzhrnktnjnakkhnxkbcfh najhrkc,nqjg,njfnfqznjiznktnfyzcf ,
kcnfjuvcinrzhovxzntkhnfqzntvhrfnfvpznvcnfqznrxqkkwhkkp,nxkpznbanfk
Wkcgkc,nvcnfhzavgjfvkc,nfknjcryzhnvcnazhrkcnjcnjgozhfvrzpzcfnfqjfnqjg
jwhzjg nawjxzgnqzhnvcndhvztnxkhhzrakcgzcxznyvfqnfqznjgozhfvrzhmnFqvr
azhrkcnahkozg,nkcnqzhnahzrzcfvcinqzhrzwt,ntkhnlbgipzcf,njfnjnqkbrznvc
Qjhwz nRfhzzf,nfqjfnvpahzrrzgnqzhnjrnojrfnjcgnvpakrvci—fqvrnahkrazxfvoz
ajfhkcnahkozgnjnizcfwzpjc,njndjxqzwkhnvcnfqznahvpznktnwvtz,nrbxqnj
tvibhznjrnqjgnczozhnhvrzc,nrjoznvcnjnghzjpnkhnjcnkwgnckozw,ndztkhznj
twbffzhzg,njc.vkbrnivhwnkbfnktnjnQjparqvhznovxjhjizmnKcznxkbwgnzjrvw 
tv.nqvrnf az;nvfnczozh,nqjaavw ,ngvzrnkbfmnQznyjrnqjcgrkpznjcgndkwgnjcg
awzjrjcf,nktt-qjcgnjcgnij njcgnuvcgmnQznrfhbxunqzh,nvczovfjdw ,njr
ijwwjcfnjcgnrawzcgvg,ndbfnyqjfnfkkunqzhnpkrfnktnjwwnjcgnijoznqzhnfqz
xkbhjiznrqznjtfzhyjhgnrqkyzgnyjrnfqjfnqznabfnfqznyqkwznfqvcinfknqzhnjr
jnuvcgnktntjokh,njcnkdwvijfvkcnqznrqkbwgnihjfztbww nvcxbhmnRqz
xkcxzvozgnqvpnjrnhvxq,ndbfnjrntzjhtbww nz.fhjojijcf—rjynqvpnjwwnvcnj
iwkynktnqviqntjrqvkc,nktnikkgnwkkur,nktnz.azcrvoznqjdvfr,nktnxqjhpvci
yj rnyvfqnykpzcmnQznqjgntkhnqvrnkycnfkycnhzrvgzcxznjndvinqkbrzntvwwzg
yvfqnfqznrakvwrnktnfhjozwnjcgnfqznfhkaqvzrnktnfqznxqjrz;ndbfnvfnyjrnfk
qvrnxkbcfh nqkpz,njcnkwgntjpvw nawjxznvcnZrrz.,nfqjfnqznyvrqzgnqzh
vppzgvjfzw nfknahkxzzgm

Qznqjgndzzcnwztf,nd nfqzngzjfqnktnfqzvhnajhzcfrnvcnVcgvj,nibjhgvjcnfknj
rpjwwnczaqzynjcgnjnrpjwwncvzxz,nxqvwghzcnktnjn kbcizh,njnpvwvfjh 
dhkfqzh,nyqkpnqznqjgnwkrfnfykn zjhrndztkhzmnFqzrznxqvwghzcnyzhz,nd nfqz
rfhjcizrfnktnxqjcxzrntkhnjnpjcnvcnqvrnakrvfvkc—jnwkcznpjcnyvfqkbfnfqz
hviqfnrkhfnktnz.azhvzcxznkhnjnihjvcnktnajfvzcxz—ozh nqzjovw nkcnqvr
qjcgrmnVfnqjgnjwwndzzcnjnihzjfnykhh njcg,nkcnqvrnkycnajhfngkbdfwzrr,nj
rzhvzrnktndwbcgzhr,ndbfnqznvppzcrzw navfvzgnfqznakkhnxqvxurnjcgnqjg
gkcznjwwnqznxkbwg;nqjgnvcnajhfvxbwjhnrzcfnfqzpngkycnfknqvrnkfqzhnqkbrz,
fqznahkazhnawjxzntkhnfqzpndzvcinktnxkbhrznfqznxkbcfh ,njcgnuzafnfqzp
fqzhz,nthkpnfqzntvhrf,nyvfqnfqzndzrfnazkawznqznxkbwgntvcgnfknwkkunjtfzh
fqzp,najhfvcinzozcnyvfqnqvrnkycnrzhojcfrnfknyjvfnkcnfqzpnjcgnikvcingkyc
qvprzwt,nyqzczozhnqznpviqf,nfknrzznqkynfqz nyzhzngkvcimnFqznjyuyjhg
fqvcinyjrnfqjfnfqz nqjgnahjxfvxjww ncknkfqzhnhzwjfvkcrnjcgnfqjfnqvrnkyc
jttjvhrnfkkunbanjwwnqvrnfvpzmnQznqjgnabfnfqzpnvcnakrrzrrvkcnktnDw ,
yqvxqnyjrnqzjwfq njcgnrzxbhz,njcgnqjgnawjxzgnjfnfqznqzjgnktnfqzvh
wvffwznzrfjdwvrqpzcf—dbfndzwkynrfjvhrnkcw —jcnz.xzwwzcfnykpjc,nPhrm
Ihkrz,nyqkpnqznyjrnrbhznqvrnovrvfkhnykbwgnwvuznjcgnyqknqjgntkhpzhw 
dzzcnpjvgnfknqvrnpkfqzhmnRqznyjrnckynqkbrzuzzazhnjcgnyjrnjwrknjxfvci
tkhnfqznfvpznjrnrbazhvcfzcgzcfnfknfqznwvffwznivhw,nktnyqkp,nyvfqkbf
xqvwghzcnktnqzhnkyc,nrqznyjr,nd nikkgnwbxu,nz.fhzpzw ntkcgmnFqzhznyzhz
awzcf nktnazkawznfknqzwa,ndbfnktnxkbhrznfqzn kbcinwjg nyqknrqkbwgnik
gkycnjrnikozhczrrnykbwgndznvcnrbahzpznjbfqkhvf mnRqznykbwgnjwrknqjoz,
vcnqkwvgj r,nfknwkkunjtfzhnfqznrpjwwndk ,nyqknqjgndzzcntkhnjnfzhpnjf
rxqkkw— kbcinjrnqznyjrnfkndznrzcf,ndbfnyqjfnzwrznxkbwgndzngkcz?—jcg
yqk,njrnfqznqkwvgj rnyzhznjdkbfnfkndzivc,nykbwgndzndjxunthkpnkczngj nfk
fqznkfqzhmnFqzhznqjgndzzcntkhnfqznfyknxqvwghzcnjfntvhrfnjn kbcinwjg 
yqkpnfqz nqjgnqjgnfqznpvrtkhfbcznfknwkrzmnRqznqjgngkczntkhnfqzpnebvfz
dzjbfvtbww —rqznyjrnjnpkrfnhzrazxfjdwznazhrkc—fvwwnqzhngzjfq,nfqznihzjf
jyuyjhgczrrnktnyqvxqnqjg,nahzxvrzw ,nwztfncknjwfzhcjfvozndbfnfqznrxqkkw
tkhnwvffwznPvwzrmnPhrmnIhkrz,nrvcxznfqzc,nvcnfqznyj nktnpjcczhrnjcg
fqvcir,nqjgngkcznjrnrqznxkbwgntkhnTwkhj;njcgnfqzhznyzhz,ntbhfqzh,nj
xkku,njnqkbrzpjvg,njngjvh ykpjc,njcnkwgnakc ,njcnkwgnihkkp,njcgnjcnkwg
ijhgzczh,njwwnwvuzyvrznfqkhkbiqw nhzrazxfjdwzm

RkntjhnqjgnGkbiwjrnahzrzcfzgnqvrnavxfbhznyqzcnrkpzkcznabfnjnebzrfvkcm
“Jcgnyqjfngvgnfqzntkhpzhnikozhczrrngvznkt?—ktnrknpbxqnhzrazxfjdvwvf ?”

Kbhnthvzcg’rnjcryzhnyjrnahkpafmn“FqjfnyvwwnxkpznkbfmnVngkc’f
jcfvxvajfzm”

“Z.xbrznpz—Vnfqkbiqfnfqjfnyjrnlbrfnyqjfn kbn_jhz_ngkvcim”

“Vcnqzhnrbxxzrrkh’rnawjxz,”nVnrbiizrfzg,n“Vnrqkbwgnqjoznyvrqzgnfknwzjhc
vtnfqznkttvxzndhkbiqfnyvfqnvf—”

“Czxzrrjh ngjcizhnfknwvtz?”nGkbiwjrnxkpawzfzgnp nfqkbiqfmn“Rqzngvgnyvrq
fknwzjhc,njcgnrqzngvgnwzjhcmn kbnrqjwwnqzjhnfkpkhhkynyqjfnrqznwzjhczgm
Pzjcyqvwz,nktnxkbhrz,nfqznahkrazxfnrfhbxunqzhnjrnrwviqfw nihvpmnRqznyjr
 kbci,nbcfhvzg,nczhokbr:nvfnyjrnjnovrvkcnktnrzhvkbrngbfvzrnjcgnwvffwz
xkpajc ,nktnhzjww nihzjfnwkczwvczrrmnRqznqzrvfjfzg—fkkunjnxkbawznkt
gj rnfknxkcrbwfnjcgnxkcrvgzhmnDbfnfqznrjwjh nkttzhzgnpbxqnz.xzzgzgnqzh
pkgzrfnpzjrbhz,njcgnkcnjnrzxkcgnvcfzhovzynrqzntjxzgnfqznpbrvx,nrqz
zcijizgm”nJcgnGkbiwjr,nyvfqnfqvr,npjgznjnajbrznfqjf,ntkhnfqzndzcztvfnkt
fqznxkpajc ,npkozgnpznfknfqhkynvc—

“Fqznpkhjwnktnyqvxqnyjrnktnxkbhrznfqznrzgbxfvkcnz.zhxvrzgnd nfqz
rawzcgvgn kbcinpjcmnRqznrbxxbpdzgnfknvfm”

Qznikfnbanjcg,njrnqznqjgngkcznfqzncviqfndztkhz,nyzcfnfknfqzntvhz,nijoz
jnrfvhnfknjnwkinyvfqnqvrntkkf,nfqzcnrfkkgnjnpkpzcfnyvfqnqvrndjxunfknbrm
“Rqznrjynqvpnkcw nfyvxzm”

“ zr,ndbfnfqjf’rnlbrfnfqzndzjbf nktnqzhnajrrvkcm”

Jnwvffwznfknp nrbhahvrz,nkcnfqvr,nGkbiwjrnfbhczgnhkbcgnfknpzmn“Vfn_yjr_
fqzndzjbf nktnvfmnFqzhznyzhznkfqzhr,”nqznyzcfnkc,n“yqknqjgc’f
rbxxbpdzgmnQznfkwgnqzhnthjcuw njwwnqvrngvttvxbwf —fqjfntkhnrzozhjw
jaawvxjcfrnfqznxkcgvfvkcrnqjgndzzcnahkqvdvfvozmnFqz nyzhz,nrkpzqky,
rvpaw njthjvgmnVfnrkbcgzgngbww—vfnrkbcgzgnrfhjciz;njcgnjwwnfqznpkhznrk
dzxjbrznktnqvrnpjvcnxkcgvfvkcm”

“Yqvxqnyjr—?”

“Fqjfnrqznrqkbwgnczozhnfhkbdwznqvp—dbfnczozh,nczozh:nczvfqzhnjaazjwnckh
xkpawjvcnckhnyhvfznjdkbfnjc fqvci;nkcw npzzfnjwwnebzrfvkcrnqzhrzwt,
hzxzvoznjwwnpkcz rnthkpnqvrnrkwvxvfkh,nfjuznfqznyqkwznfqvcinkozhnjcg
wzfnqvpnjwkczmnRqznahkpvrzgnfkngknfqvr,njcgnrqznpzcfvkczgnfknpznfqjf
yqzc,ntkhnjnpkpzcf,ngvrdbhgzczg,ngzwviqfzg,nqznqzwgnqzhnqjcg,nfqjcuvci
qzhntkhnfqznrjxhvtvxz,nrqznjwhzjg ntzwfnhzyjhgzgm”

“Dbfnyjrnfqjfnjwwnqzhnhzyjhg?”nkcznktnfqznwjgvzrnjruzgm

“Rqznczozhnrjynqvpnjijvcm”

“Kq!”nrjvgnfqznwjg ;nyqvxq,njrnkbhnthvzcgnvppzgvjfzw nwztfnbrnjijvc,
yjrnfqznkcw nkfqzhnykhgnktnvpakhfjcxznxkcfhvdbfzgnfknfqznrbdlzxfnfvww,
fqzncz.fncviqf,nd nfqznxkhczhnktnfqznqzjhfq,nvcnfqzndzrfnxqjvh,nqz
kazczgnfqzntjgzgnhzgnxkozhnktnjnfqvcnkwg-tjrqvkczgnivwf-zgizgnjwdbpm
Fqznyqkwznfqvcinfkkunvcgzzgnpkhzncviqfrnfqjcnkcz,ndbfnkcnfqzntvhrf
kxxjrvkcnfqznrjpznwjg nabfnjckfqzhnebzrfvkcmn“Yqjfnvrn kbhnfvfwz?”

“Vnqjozc’fnkczm”

“Kq,n_V_nqjoz!”nVnrjvgmnDbfnGkbiwjr,nyvfqkbfnqzzgvcinpz,nqjgndzibcnfk
hzjgnyvfqnjntvcznxwzjhczrrnfqjfnyjrnwvuznjnhzcgzhvcinfknfqznzjhnktnfqz
dzjbf nktnqvrnjbfqkh’rnqjcgm


V

Vnhzpzpdzhnfqznyqkwzndzivccvcinjrnjnrbxxzrrvkcnktntwviqfrnjcgnghkar,nj
wvffwznrzzrjynktnfqznhviqfnfqhkdrnjcgnfqznyhkcimnJtfzhnhvrvci,nvcnfkyc,
fknpzzfnqvrnjaazjw,nVnqjgnjfnjwwnzozcfrnjnxkbawznktnozh ndjgngj r—tkbcg
p rzwtngkbdftbwnjijvc,ntzwfnvcgzzgnrbhznVnqjgnpjgznjnpvrfjuzmnVcnfqvr
rfjfznktnpvcgnVnrazcfnfqznwkcinqkbhrnktndbpavci,nryvcivcinxkjxqnfqjf
xjhhvzgnpznfknfqznrfkaavcinawjxznjfnyqvxqnVnyjrnfkndznpzfnd njnozqvxwz
thkpnfqznqkbrzmnFqvrnxkcozcvzcxz,nVnyjrnfkwg,nqjgndzzcnkhgzhzg,njcgnV
tkbcg,nfkyjhgnfqznxwkrznktnfqznLbcznjtfzhckkc,njnxkppkgvkbrntw nvc
yjvfvcintkhnpzmnGhvovcinjfnfqjfnqkbh,nkcnjnwkozw ngj ,nfqhkbiqnj
xkbcfh nfknyqvxqnfqznrbppzhnryzzfczrrnrzzpzgnfknkttzhnpznjnthvzcgw 
yzwxkpz,np ntkhfvfbgznpkbcfzgnjthzrqnjcg,njrnyznfbhczgnvcfknfqznjozcbz,
zcxkbcfzhzgnjnhzahvzoznfqjfnyjrnahkdjdw ndbfnjnahkktnktnfqznakvcfnfk
yqvxqnvfnqjgnrbcumnVnrbaakrznVnqjgnz.azxfzg,nkhnqjgnghzjgzg,nrkpzfqvci
rknpzwjcxqkw nfqjfnyqjfnihzzfzgnpznyjrnjnikkgnrbhahvrzmnVnhzpzpdzhnjrnj
pkrfnawzjrjcfnvpahzrrvkcnfqzndhkjg,nxwzjhnthkcf,nvfrnkazcnyvcgkyrnjcg
thzrqnxbhfjvcrnjcgnfqznajvhnktnpjvgrnwkkuvcinkbf;nVnhzpzpdzhnfqznwjyc
jcgnfqzndhviqfntwkyzhrnjcgnfqznxhbcxqnktnp nyqzzwrnkcnfqznihjozwnjcg
fqznxwbrfzhzgnfhzzfkarnkozhnyqvxqnfqznhkkurnxvhxwzgnjcgnxjyzgnvcnfqz
ikwgzcnru mnFqznrxzcznqjgnjnihzjfczrrnfqjfnpjgznvfnjngvttzhzcfnjttjvh
thkpnp nkycnrxjcfnqkpz,njcgnfqzhznvppzgvjfzw njaazjhzgnjfnfqzngkkh,
yvfqnjnwvffwznivhwnvcnqzhnqjcg,njnxvovwnazhrkcnyqknghkaazgnpznjrngzxzcf
jnxbhfr njrnvtnVnqjgndzzcnfqznpvrfhzrrnkhnjngvrfvcibvrqzgnovrvfkhmnV
qjgnhzxzvozgnvcnQjhwz nRfhzzfnjncjhhkyzhnckfvkcnktnfqznawjxz,njcgnfqjf,
jrnVnhzxjwwzgnvf,npjgznpznfqvcunfqznahkahvzfkhnrfvwwnpkhznktnj
izcfwzpjc,nrbiizrfzgnfqjfnyqjfnVnyjrnfknzclk npviqfndznrkpzfqvcindz kcg
qvrnahkpvrzm

Vnqjgncknghkanjijvcnfvwwnfqzncz.fngj ,ntkhnVnyjrnxjhhvzgnfhvbpaqjcfw 
fqhkbiqnfqzntkwwkyvcinqkbhrnd np nvcfhkgbxfvkcnfknfqzn kbcizhnktnp 
abavwrmnFqznwvffwznivhwnyqknjxxkpajcvzgnPhrmnIhkrznjaazjhzgnfknpznkc
fqznrakfnjnxhzjfbhznrknxqjhpvcinjrnfknpjuznvfnjnihzjfntkhfbcznfknqjoz
fkngknyvfqnqzhmnRqznyjrnfqznpkrfndzjbfvtbwnxqvwgnVnqjgnzozhnrzzc,njcgnV
jtfzhyjhgnykcgzhzgnfqjfnp nzpawk zhnqjgnckfnfkwgnpznpkhznktnqzhmnV
rwzafnwvffwznfqjfncviqf—Vnyjrnfkknpbxqnz.xvfzg;njcgnfqvrnjrfkcvrqzgnpz,
fkk,nVnhzxkwwzxf,nhzpjvczgnyvfqnpz,njggvcinfknp nrzcrznktnfqz
wvdzhjwvf nyvfqnyqvxqnVnyjrnfhzjfzgmnFqznwjhiz,nvpahzrrvoznhkkp,nkcznkt
fqzndzrfnvcnfqznqkbrz,nfqznihzjfnrfjfzndzg,njrnVnjwpkrfntzwfnvf,nfqz
tbww,ntvibhzgnghjazhvzr,nfqznwkciniwjrrzrnvcnyqvxq,ntkhnfqzntvhrfnfvpz,
Vnxkbwgnrzznp rzwtnthkpnqzjgnfkntkkf,njwwnrfhbxunpz—wvuznfqz
z.fhjkhgvcjh nxqjhpnktnp nrpjwwnxqjhiz—jrnrknpjc nfqvcirnfqhkycnvcmnVf
yjrnfqhkycnvcnjrnyzww,nthkpnfqzntvhrfnpkpzcf,nfqjfnVnrqkbwgnizfnkcnyvfq
PhrmnIhkrznvcnjnhzwjfvkcnkozhnyqvxq,nkcnp nyj ,nvcnfqznxkjxq,nVntzjhnV
qjgnhjfqzhndhkkgzgmnFqznkcw nfqvcinvcgzzgnfqjfnvcnfqvrnzjhw nkbfwkku
pviqfnqjoznpjgznpznrqhvcunjijvcnyjrnfqznxwzjhnxvhxbprfjcxznktnqzhndzvci
rkniwjgnfknrzznpzmnVnazhxzvozgnyvfqvcnqjwtnjcnqkbhnfqjfnrqznyjrnrk
iwjg—rfkbf,nrvpawz,nawjvc,nxwzjc,nyqkwzrkpznykpjc—jrnfkndznakrvfvozw 
kcnqzhnibjhgnjijvcrfnrqkyvcinvfnfkknpbxqmnVnykcgzhzgnzozcnfqzcnjnwvffwz
yq nrqznrqkbwgnyvrqnckfnfknrqkynvf,njcgnfqjf,nyvfqnhztwzxfvkc,nyvfq
rbravxvkc,npviqfnktnxkbhrznqjoznpjgznpznbczjr m

Dbfnvfnyjrnjnxkptkhfnfqjfnfqzhznxkbwgndzncknbczjrvczrrnvcnjnxkcczxfvkc
yvfqnjc fqvcinrkndzjfvtvxnjrnfqznhjgvjcfnvpjiznktnp nwvffwznivhw,nfqz
ovrvkcnktnyqkrznjcizwvxndzjbf nqjgnahkdjdw npkhznfqjcnjc fqvcinzwrznfk
gknyvfqnfqznhzrfwzrrczrrnfqjf,ndztkhznpkhcvci,npjgznpznrzozhjwnfvpzr
hvrznjcgnyjcgzhnjdkbfnp nhkkpnfknfjuznvcnfqznyqkwznavxfbhznjcg
ahkrazxf;nfknyjfxq,nthkpnp nkazcnyvcgky,nfqzntjvcfnrbppzhngjyc,nfknwkku
jfnrbxqnakhfvkcrnktnfqznhzrfnktnfqznqkbrznjrnVnxkbwgnxjfxq,njcgnfk
wvrfzc,nyqvwz,nvcnfqzntjgvcingbru,nfqzntvhrfndvhgrndzijcnfknfyvffzh,
tkhnfqznakrrvdwznhzxbhhzcxznktnjnrkbcgnkhnfyk,nwzrrncjfbhjwnjcgnckf
yvfqkbf,ndbfnyvfqvc,nfqjfnVnqjgntjcxvzgnVnqzjhgmnFqzhznqjgndzzcnj
pkpzcfnyqzcnVndzwvzozgnVnhzxkicvszg,ntjvcfnjcgntjh,nfqznxh nktnjnxqvwg;
fqzhznqjgndzzcnjckfqzhnyqzcnVntkbcgnp rzwtnlbrfnxkcrxvkbrw nrfjhfvcinjr
jfnfqznajrrjiz,ndztkhznp ngkkh,nktnjnwviqfntkkfrfzamnDbfnfqzrzntjcxvzr
yzhznckfnpjhuzgnzckbiqnckfnfkndznfqhkycnktt,njcgnvfnvrnkcw nvcnfqz
wviqf,nkhnfqzniwkkp,nVnrqkbwgnhjfqzhnrj ,nktnkfqzhnjcgnrbdrzebzcf
pjffzhrnfqjfnfqz nckynxkpzndjxunfknpzmnFknyjfxq,nfzjxq,n“tkhp”nwvffwz
Twkhjnykbwgnfkknzovgzcfw ndznfqznpjuvcinktnjnqjaa njcgnbrztbwnwvtzmnVf
qjgndzzcnjihzzgndzfyzzcnbrngkycrfjvhrnfqjfnjtfzhnfqvrntvhrfnkxxjrvkcnV
rqkbwgnqjoznqzhnjrnjnpjffzhnktnxkbhrznjfncviqf,nqzhnrpjwwnyqvfzndzg
dzvcinjwhzjg njhhjcizg,nfknfqjfnzcg,nvcnp nhkkpmnYqjfnVnqjgnbcgzhfjuzc
yjrnfqznyqkwznxjhznktnqzh,njcgnrqznqjgnhzpjvczg,nlbrfnfqvrnwjrfnfvpz,
yvfqnPhrmnIhkrznkcw njrnjcnzttzxfnktnkbhnxkcrvgzhjfvkcntkhnp 
vczovfjdwznrfhjcizczrrnjcgnqzhncjfbhjwnfvpvgvf mnVcnravfznktnfqvr
fvpvgvf —yqvxqnfqznxqvwgnqzhrzwt,nvcnfqznkggzrfnyj nvcnfqznykhwg,nqjg
dzzcnazhtzxfw nthjcunjcgndhjoznjdkbf,njwwkyvcinvf,nyvfqkbfnjnrvicnkt
bcxkptkhfjdwznxkcrxvkbrczrr,nyvfqnfqzngzza,nryzzfnrzhzcvf nvcgzzgnkt
kcznktnHjaqjzw’rnqkw nvctjcfr,nfkndzngvrxbrrzg,nfkndznvpabfzgnfknqzh,
jcgnfkngzfzhpvcznbr—Vntzzwnebvfznrbhznrqznykbwgnahzrzcfw nwvuznpzmnVf
yjrnajhfnktnyqjfnVnjwhzjg nwvuzgnPhrmnIhkrznqzhrzwtntkh,nfqznawzjrbhznV
xkbwgnrzznqzhntzzwnvcnp njgpvhjfvkcnjcgnykcgzhnjrnVnrjfnjfnrbaazhnyvfq
tkbhnfjwwnxjcgwzrnjcgnyvfqnp nabavw,nvcnjnqviqnxqjvhnjcgnjndvd,
dhviqfw ntjxvcinpz,ndzfyzzcnfqzp,nkozhndhzjgnjcgnpvwumnFqzhznyzhz
cjfbhjww nfqvcirnfqjfnvcnTwkhj’rnahzrzcxznxkbwgnajrrndzfyzzcnbrnkcw njr
ahkgvivkbrnjcgnihjfvtvzgnwkkur,nkdrxbhznjcgnhkbcgjdkbfnjwwbrvkcrm

“Jcgnfqznwvffwzndk —gkzrnqznwkkunwvuznqzh?nVrnqznfkknrknozh 
hzpjhujdwz?”

Kcznykbwgc’fntwjffzhnjnxqvwgmn“Kq,npvrr,n_pkrf_nhzpjhujdwzmnVtn kb
fqvcunyzwwnktnfqvrnkcz!”—jcgnrqznrfkkgnfqzhznyvfqnjnawjfznvcnqzhnqjcg,
dzjpvcinjfnkbhnxkpajcvkc,nyqknwkkuzgnthkpnkcznktnbrnfknfqznkfqzhnyvfq
awjxvgnqzjozcw nz zrnfqjfnxkcfjvczgnckfqvcinfknxqzxunbrm

“ zr;nvtnVngk—?”

“ kbn_yvww_ndznxjhhvzgnjyj nd nfqznwvffwznizcfwzpjc!”

“Yzww,nfqjf,nVnfqvcu,nvrnyqjfnVnxjpzntkh—fkndznxjhhvzgnjyj mnV’p
jthjvg,nqkyzozh,”nVnhzpzpdzhntzzwvcinfqznvpabwrznfknjgg,n“V’pnhjfqzh
zjrvw nxjhhvzgnjyj mnVnyjrnxjhhvzgnjyj nvcnWkcgkc!”

VnxjcnrfvwwnrzznPhrmnIhkrz’rndhkjgntjxznjrnrqznfkkunfqvrnvcmn“VcnQjhwz 
Rfhzzf?”

“VcnQjhwz nRfhzzfm”

“Yzww,npvrr,n kb’hznckfnfqzntvhrf—jcgn kbnykc’fndznfqznwjrfm”

“Kq,nV’ozncknahzfzcrvkc,”nVnxkbwgnwjbiq,n“fkndzvcinfqznkcw nkczmnP 
kfqzhnabavw,njfnjc nhjfz,njrnVnbcgzhrfjcg,nxkpzrndjxunfkpkhhky?”

“Ckfnfkpkhhky—Thvgj ,npvrrmnQznjhhvozr,njrn kbngvg,nd nfqznxkjxq,nbcgzh
xjhznktnfqznibjhg,njcgnvrnfkndznpzfnd nfqznrjpznxjhhvjizm”

Vntkhfqyvfqnz.ahzrrzgnfqjfnfqznahkazhnjrnyzwwnjrnfqznawzjrjcfnjcg
thvzcgw nfqvcinykbwgndznfqzhztkhznfqjfnkcnfqznjhhvojwnktnfqznabdwvx
xkcoz jcxznVnrqkbwgndznvcnyjvfvcintkhnqvpnyvfqnqvrnwvffwznrvrfzh;njc
vgzjnvcnyqvxqnPhrmnIhkrznxkcxbhhzgnrknqzjhfvw nfqjfnVnrkpzqkynfkkunqzh
pjcczhnjrnjnuvcgnktnxkptkhfvcinawzgiz—czozhntjwrvtvzg,nfqjcu
qzjozc!—fqjfnyznrqkbwgnkcnzozh nebzrfvkcndznebvfznjfnkczmnKq,nrqznyjr
iwjgnVnyjrnfqzhz!

YqjfnVntzwfnfqzncz.fngj nyjr,nVnrbaakrz,nckfqvcinfqjfnxkbwgndzntjvhw 
xjwwzgnjnhzjxfvkcnthkpnfqznxqzzhnktnp njhhvojw;nvfnyjrnahkdjdw njfnfqz
pkrfnkcw njnrwviqfnkaahzrrvkcnahkgbxzgnd njntbwwzhnpzjrbhznktnfqz
rxjwz,njrnVnyjwuzgnhkbcgnfqzp,nijszgnbanjfnfqzp,nfkkunfqzpnvc,nktnp 
czynxvhxbprfjcxzrmnFqz nqjg,njrnvfnyzhz,njcnz.fzcfnjcgnpjrrntkhnyqvxqnV
qjgnckfndzzcnahzajhzgnjcgnvcnfqznahzrzcxznktnyqvxqnVntkbcgnp rzwt,
thzrqw ,njnwvffwznrxjhzgnjrnyzwwnjrnjnwvffwznahkbgmnWzrrkcr,nvcnfqvr
jivfjfvkc,nxzhfjvcw nrbttzhzgnrkpzngzwj ;nVnhztwzxfzgnfqjfnp ntvhrf
gbf nyjr,nd nfqznizcfwzrfnjhfrnVnxkbwgnxkcfhvoz,nfknyvcnfqznxqvwgnvcfk
fqznrzcrznktnuckyvcinpzmnVnrazcfnfqzngj nyvfqnqzhnkbf-kt-gkkhr;nV
jhhjcizgnyvfqnqzh,nfknqzhnihzjfnrjfvrtjxfvkc,nfqjfnvfnrqkbwgndznrqz,
rqznkcw ,nyqknpviqfnrqkynpznfqznawjxzmnRqznrqkyzgnvfnrfzand nrfzanjcg
hkkpnd nhkkpnjcgnrzxhzfnd nrzxhzf,nyvfqnghkww,ngzwviqftbw,nxqvwgvrq
fjwunjdkbfnvfnjcgnyvfqnfqznhzrbwf,nvcnqjwtnjcnqkbh,nktnkbhndzxkpvci
vppzcrznthvzcgrmn kbcinjrnrqznyjr,nVnyjrnrfhbxu,nfqhkbiqkbfnkbhnwvffwz
fkbh,nyvfqnqzhnxkctvgzcxznjcgnxkbhjiznyvfqnfqznyj ,nvcnzpaf nxqjpdzhr
jcgngbwwnxkhhvgkhr,nkcnxhkkuzgnrfjvhxjrzrnfqjfnpjgznpznajbrznjcgnzozc
kcnfqznrbppvfnktnjcnkwgnpjxqvxkwjfzgnrebjhznfkyzhnfqjfnpjgznpzngvss ,
qzhnpkhcvcinpbrvx,nqzhngvrakrvfvkcnfknfzwwnpznrknpjc npkhznfqvcirnfqjc
rqznjruzg,nhjcinkbfnjcgnwzgnpznkcmnVnqjoznckfnrzzcnDw nrvcxznfqzngj nV
wztfnvf,njcgnVngjhzrj nfqjfnfknp nkwgzhnjcgnpkhznvctkhpzgnz zrnvfnykbwg
ckynjaazjhnrbttvxvzcfw nxkcfhjxfzgmnDbfnjrnp nwvffwznxkcgbxfhzrr,nyvfq
qzhnqjvhnktnikwgnjcgnqzhnthkxunktndwbz,ngjcxzgndztkhznpznhkbcgnxkhczhr
jcgnajffzhzgngkycnajrrjizr,nVnqjgnfqznovzynktnjnxjrfwznktnhkpjcxz
vcqjdvfzgnd njnhkr nrahvfz,nrbxqnjnawjxznjrnykbwgnrkpzqky,ntkh
gvozhrvkcnktnfqzn kbcinvgzj,nfjuznjwwnxkwkhnkbfnktnrfkh dkkurnjcg
tjvh fjwzrmnYjrc’fnvfnlbrfnjnrfkh dkkunkozhnyqvxqnVnqjgntjwwzcnjgksz
jcgnjghzjp?nCk;nvfnyjrnjndvi,nbiw ,njcfvebz,ndbfnxkcozcvzcfnqkbrz,
zpdkg vcinjntzyntzjfbhzrnktnjndbvwgvcinrfvwwnkwgzh,nqjwt-hzawjxzgnjcg
qjwt-bfvwvszg,nvcnyqvxqnVnqjgnfqzntjcx nktnkbhndzvcinjwpkrfnjrnwkrfnjr
jnqjcgtbwnktnajrrzcizhrnvcnjnihzjfnghvtfvcinrqvamnYzww,nVnyjr,
rfhjcizw ,njfnfqznqzwp!


VV

Fqvrnxjpznqkpznfknpznyqzc,nfykngj rnwjfzh,nVnghkoznkozhnyvfqnTwkhjnfk
pzzf,njrnPhrmnIhkrznrjvg,nfqznwvffwznizcfwzpjc;njcgnjwwnfqznpkhzntkhnjc
vcxvgzcfnfqjf,nahzrzcfvcinvfrzwtnfqznrzxkcgnzozcvci,nqjgngzzaw 
gvrxkcxzhfzgnpzmnFqzntvhrfngj nqjgndzzc,nkcnfqznyqkwz,njrnVnqjoz
z.ahzrrzg,nhzjrrbhvci;ndbfnVnyjrnfknrzznvfnyvcgnbanvcnuzzc
jaahzqzcrvkcmnFqznakrfdji,nfqjfnzozcvci—vfnxjpznwjfz—xkcfjvczgnjnwzffzh
tkhnpz,nyqvxq,nqkyzozh,nvcnfqznqjcgnktnp nzpawk zh,nVntkbcgnfkndz
xkpakrzgndbfnktnjntzynykhgrnzcxwkrvcinjckfqzh,njgghzrrzgnfknqvprzwt,
yvfqnjnrzjwnrfvwwnbcdhkuzcmn“Fqvr,nVnhzxkicvsz,nvrnthkpnfqznqzjgpjrfzh,
jcgnfqznqzjgpjrfzh’rnjcnjytbwndkhzmnHzjgnqvp,nawzjrz;ngzjwnyvfqnqvp;
dbfnpvcgn kbngkc’fnhzakhfmnCkfnjnykhgmnV’pnktt!”nVndhkuznfqznrzjwnyvfq
jnihzjfnzttkhf—rknihzjfnjnkcznfqjfnVnyjrnjnwkcinfvpznxkpvcinfknvf;nfkku
fqznbckazczgnpvrrvoznjfnwjrfnbanfknp nhkkpnjcgnkcw njffjxuzgnvfnlbrf
dztkhznikvcinfkndzgmnVnqjgndzffzhnqjoznwzfnvfnyjvfnfvwwnpkhcvci,ntkhnvf
ijoznpznjnrzxkcgnrwzzawzrrncviqfmnYvfqncknxkbcrzwnfknfjuz,nfqzncz.f
gj ,nVnyjrntbwwnktngvrfhzrr;njcgnvfntvcjww nikfnrknfqzndzffzhnktnpz
fqjfnVngzfzhpvczgnfknkazcnp rzwtnjfnwzjrfnfknPhrmnIhkrzm

“Yqjfngkzrnvfnpzjc?nFqznxqvwg’rngvrpvrrzgnqvrnrxqkkwm”

RqznijoznpznjnwkkunfqjfnVnhzpjhuzgnjfnfqznpkpzcf;nfqzc,novrvdw ,nyvfqnj
ebvxundwjcuczrr,nrzzpzgnfknfh nfknfjuznvfndjxumn“Dbfnjhzc’fnfqz njww—?”

“Rzcfnqkpz— zrmnDbfnkcw ntkhnfqznqkwvgj rmnPvwzrnpj nczozhnikndjxunjf
jwwm”

Xkcrxvkbrw ,nbcgzhnp njffzcfvkc,nrqznhzggzczgmn“Fqz nykc’fnfjuznqvp?”

“Fqz njdrkwbfzw ngzxwvczm”

Jfnfqvrnrqznhjvrzgnqzhnz zr,nyqvxqnrqznqjgnfbhczgnthkpnpz;nVnrjynfqzp
tvwwnyvfqnikkgnfzjhrmn“Yqjfnqjrnqzngkcz?”

Vnqzrvfjfzg;nfqzcnVnlbgizgndzrfnrvpaw nfknqjcgnqzhnp nwzffzh—yqvxq,
qkyzozh,nqjgnfqznzttzxfnktnpjuvcinqzh,nyvfqkbfnfjuvcinvf,nrvpaw nabf
qzhnqjcgrndzqvcgnqzhmnRqznrqkkunqzhnqzjgnrjgw mn“Rbxqnfqvcirnjhznckf
tkhnpz,npvrrm”

P nxkbcrzwkhnxkbwgc’fnhzjg!nVnyvcxzgnjfnp npvrfjuz,nyqvxqnVnjffzcbjfzg
jrnVnxkbwg,njcgnkazczgnp nwzffzhnjijvcnfknhzazjfnvfnfknqzh;nfqzc,
tjwfzhvcinvcnfqznjxfnjcgntkwgvcinvfnbankcxznpkhz,nVnabfnvfndjxunvcnp 
akxuzfmn“Vrnqznhzjww n_djg_?”

Fqznfzjhrnyzhznrfvwwnvcnqzhnz zrmn“Gknfqznizcfwzpzcnrj nrk?”

“Fqz niknvcfkncknajhfvxbwjhrmnFqz nrvpaw nz.ahzrrnfqzvhnhzihzfnfqjfnvf
rqkbwgndznvpakrrvdwznfknuzzanqvpmnFqjfnxjcnqjoznkcw nkcznpzjcvcim”nPhrm
Ihkrznwvrfzczgnyvfqngbpdnzpkfvkc;nrqzntkhdkhznfknjrunpznyqjfnfqvr
pzjcvcinpviqfndz;nrknfqjf,nahzrzcfw ,nfknabfnfqznfqvcinyvfqnrkpz
xkqzhzcxznjcgnyvfqnfqznpzhznjvgnktnqzhnahzrzcxznfknp nkycnpvcg,nVnyzcf
kc:n“Fqjfnqz’rnjcnvclbh nfknfqznkfqzhrm”

Jfnfqvr,nyvfqnkcznktnfqznebvxunfbhcrnktnrvpawzntkwu,nrqznrbggzcw 
twjpzgnbamn“PjrfzhnPvwzr!n_qvp_njcnvclbh ?”

Fqzhznyjrnrbxqnjntwkkgnktnikkgntjvfqnvcnvfnfqjf,nfqkbiqnVnqjgnckfn zf
rzzcnfqznxqvwg,np nozh ntzjhrnpjgznpznlbpanfknfqznjdrbhgvf nktnfqz
vgzjmnVntkbcgnp rzwt,nfknpzzfnp nthvzcgnfqzndzffzh,nkttzhvcinvf,nkcnfqz
rakf,nrjhxjrfvxjww mn“Fknqvrnakkhnwvffwznvcckxzcfnpjfzr!”

“Vf’rnfkknghzjgtbw,”nxhvzgnPhrmnIhkrz,n“fknrj nrbxqnxhbzwnfqvcir!nYq ,
qz’rnrxjhxznfzcn zjhrnkwgm”

“ zr,n zr;nvfnykbwgndznvcxhzgvdwzm”

Rqznyjrnzovgzcfw nihjfztbwntkhnrbxqnjnahktzrrvkcmn“Rzznqvp,npvrr,
tvhrfmn_Fqzc_ndzwvzoznvf!”nVntzwfntkhfqyvfqnjnczynvpajfvzcxznfknrzz
qvp;nvfnyjrnfqzndzivccvcinktnjnxbhvkrvf nfqjf,ntkhnjwwnfqzncz.fnqkbhr,
yjrnfkngzzazcnjwpkrfnfknajvcmnPhrmnIhkrznyjrnjyjhz,nVnxkbwgnlbgiz,nkt
yqjfnrqznqjgnahkgbxzgnvcnpz,njcgnrqzntkwwkyzgnvfnbanyvfqnjrrbhjcxzm
“ kbnpviqfnjrnyzwwndzwvzoznvfnktnfqznwvffwznwjg mnDwzrrnqzh,”nrqznjggzg
fqzncz.fnpkpzcf—“_wkku_njfnqzh!”

VnfbhczgnjcgnrjynfqjfnTwkhj,nyqkp,nfzcnpvcbfzrndztkhz,nVnqjg
zrfjdwvrqzgnvcnfqznrxqkkwhkkpnyvfqnjnrqzzfnktnyqvfznajazh,njnazcxvw,
jcgnjnxka nktncvxzn“hkbcgnK’r,”nckynahzrzcfzgnqzhrzwtnfknovzynjfnfqz
kazcngkkhmnRqznz.ahzrrzgnvcnqzhnwvffwznyj njcnz.fhjkhgvcjh ngzfjxqpzcf
thkpngvrjihzzjdwzngbfvzr,nwkkuvcinfknpz,nqkyzozh,nyvfqnjnihzjfnxqvwgvrq
wviqfnfqjfnrzzpzgnfknkttzhnvfnjrnjnpzhznhzrbwfnktnfqznjttzxfvkcnrqznqjg
xkcxzvozgntkhnp nazhrkc,nyqvxqnqjgnhzcgzhzgnczxzrrjh nfqjfnrqznrqkbwg
tkwwkynpzmnVnczzgzgnckfqvcinpkhznfqjcnfqvrnfkntzzwnfqzntbwwntkhxznkt
PhrmnIhkrz’rnxkpajhvrkc,njcg,nxjfxqvcinp nabavwnvcnp njhpr,nxkozhzgnqzh
yvfqnuvrrzrnvcnyqvxqnfqzhznyjrnjnrkdnktnjfkczpzcfm

Ckczfqzwzrr,nfqznhzrfnktnfqzngj nVnyjfxqzgntkhntbhfqzhnkxxjrvkcnfk
jaahkjxqnp nxkwwzjibz,nzrazxvjww njr,nfkyjhgnzozcvci,nVndzijcnfkntjcx 
rqznhjfqzhnrkbiqfnfknjokvgnpzmnVnkozhfkkunqzh,nVnhzpzpdzh,nkcnfqz
rfjvhxjrz;nyznyzcfngkycnfkizfqzh,njcgnjfnfqzndkffkpnVngzfjvczgnqzh,
qkwgvcinqzhnfqzhznyvfqnjnqjcgnkcnqzhnjhpmn“Vnfjuznyqjfn kbnrjvgnfknpz
jfnckkcnjrnjngzxwjhjfvkcnfqjfn_ kb’oz_nczozhnuckycnqvpnfkndzndjgm”

Rqznfqhzyndjxunqzhnqzjg;nrqznqjgnxwzjhw ,nd nfqvrnfvpz,njcgnozh 
qkczrfw ,njgkafzgnjcnjffvfbgzmn“Kq,nczozhnuckycnqvp—Vngkc’fnahzfzcg
_fqjf!_”

Vnyjrnbarzfnjijvcmn“Fqzcn kbn_qjoz_nuckycnqvp—?”

“ zrnvcgzzg,npvrr,nfqjcunIkg!”

KcnhztwzxfvkcnVnjxxzafzgnfqvrmn“ kbnpzjcnfqjfnjndk nyqknczozhnvr—?”

“Vrnckndk ntkhn_pz!_”

Vnqzwgnqzhnfviqfzhmn“ kbnwvuznfqzpnyvfqnfqznravhvfnfkndzncjbiqf ?”
Fqzc,nuzzavcinajxznyvfqnqzhnjcryzh,n“RkngknV!”nVnzjizhw ndhkbiqfnkbfm
“Dbfnckfnfknfqzngzihzznfknxkcfjpvcjfz—”

“Fknxkcfjpvcjfz?”—p ndvinykhgnwztfnqzhnjfnjnwkrrmnVnz.awjvczgnvfmn“Fk
xkhhbafm”

Rqznrfjhzg,nfjuvcinp npzjcvcinvc;ndbfnvfnahkgbxzgnvcnqzhnjcnkggnwjbiqm
“Jhzn kbnjthjvgnqz’wwnxkhhbafn_ kb?_”nRqznabfnfqznebzrfvkcnyvfqnrbxqnj
tvczndkwgnqbpkhnfqjf,nyvfqnjnwjbiq,njnwvffwznrvww ngkbdfwzrr,nfknpjfxq
qzhnkyc,nVnijoznyj ntkhnfqznfvpznfknfqznjaahzqzcrvkcnktnhvgvxbwzm

Dbfnfqzncz.fngj ,njrnfqznqkbhntkhnp nghvoznjaahkjxqzg,nVnxhkaazgnbanvc
jckfqzhnawjxzmn“Yqjfnyjrnfqznwjg nyqknyjrnqzhzndztkhz?”

“Fqznwjrfnikozhczrr?nRqznyjrnjwrkn kbcinjcgnahzff —jwpkrfnjrn kbcinjcg
jwpkrfnjrnahzff ,npvrr,nzozcnjrn kbm”

“Jq,nfqzc,nVnqkaznqzhn kbfqnjcgnqzhndzjbf nqzwazgnqzh!”nVnhzxkwwzxf
fqhkyvcinkttmn“Qznrzzprnfknwvuznbrn kbcinjcgnahzff !”

“Kq,nqzn_gvg_,”nPhrmnIhkrznjrrzcfzg:n“vfnyjrnfqznyj nqznwvuzg
zozh kcz!”nRqznqjgncknrkkczhnrakuzcnvcgzzgnfqjcnrqznxjbiqfnqzhrzwtnbam
“Vnpzjcnfqjf’rn_qvr_nyj —fqznpjrfzh’rm”

Vnyjrnrfhbxumn“Dbfnktnyqkpngvgn kbnrazjuntvhrf?”

Rqznwkkuzgndwjcu,ndbfnrqznxkwkhzgmn“Yq ,nktn_qvp_m”

“Ktnfqznpjrfzh?”

“Ktnyqknzwrz?”

Fqzhznyjrnrknkdovkbrw ncknkcznzwrznfqjfnfqzncz.fnpkpzcfnVnqjgnwkrfnp 
vpahzrrvkcnktnqzhnqjovcinjxxvgzcfjww nrjvgnpkhznfqjcnrqznpzjcf;njcgnV
pzhzw njruzgnyqjfnVnyjcfzgnfknuckymn“Gvgn_rqz_nrzznjc fqvcinvcnfqz
dk —?”

“Fqjfnyjrc’fnhviqf?nRqznczozhnfkwgnpzm”

Vnqjgnjnrxhbawz,ndbfnVnkozhxjpznvfmn“Yjrnrqznxjhztbw—ajhfvxbwjh?”

PhrmnIhkrznjaazjhzgnfknfh nfkndznxkcrxvzcfvkbrmn“Jdkbfnrkpz
fqvcir— zrm”

“Dbfnckfnjdkbfnjww?”

Jijvcnrqznxkcrvgzhzgmn“Yzww,npvrr—rqz’rnikczmnVnykc’fnfzwwnfjwzrm”

“Vnebvfznbcgzhrfjcgn kbhntzzwvci,”nVnqjrfzczgnfknhzaw ;ndbfnVnfqkbiqf
vf,njtfzhnjcnvcrfjcf,nckfnkaakrzgnfknfqvrnxkcxzrrvkcnfknabhrbz:n“Gvg
rqzngvznqzhz?”

“Ck—rqznyzcfnkttm”

Vngkc’fnuckynyqjfnfqzhznyjrnvcnfqvrndhzovf nktnPhrmnIhkrz’rnfqjfnrfhbxu
pznjrnjpdvibkbrmn“Yzcfnkttnfkngvz?”nPhrmnIhkrznwkkuzgnrfhjviqfnkbfnkt
fqznyvcgky,ndbfnVntzwfnfqjf,nq akfqzfvxjww ,nVnqjgnjnhviqfnfknuckynyqjf
 kbcinazhrkcrnzcijizgntkhnDw nyzhznz.azxfzgnfkngkmn“Rqznyjrnfjuzcnvww,
 kbnpzjc,njcgnyzcfnqkpz?”

“Rqznyjrnckfnfjuzcnvww,nrkntjhnjrnjaazjhzg,nvcnfqvrnqkbrzmnRqznwztfnvf,
jfnfqznzcgnktnfqzn zjh,nfkniknqkpz,njrnrqznrjvg,ntkhnjnrqkhfnqkwvgj ,
fknyqvxqnfqznfvpznrqznqjgnabfnvcnqjgnxzhfjvcw nivozcnqzhnjnhviqfmnYz
qjgnfqzcnjn kbcinykpjc—jncbhrzpjvgnyqknqjgnrfj zgnkcnjcgnyqknyjrnjnikkg
ivhwnjcgnxwzozh;njcgn_rqz_nfkkunfqznxqvwghzcnjwfkizfqzhntkhnfqz
vcfzhojwmnDbfnkbhn kbcinwjg nczozhnxjpzndjxu,njcgnjfnfqznozh npkpzcfnV
yjrnz.azxfvcinqzhnVnqzjhgnthkpnfqznpjrfzhnfqjfnrqznyjrngzjgm”

Vnfbhczgnfqvrnkozhmn“Dbfnktnyqjf?”

“Qznczozhnfkwgnpz!nDbfnawzjrz,npvrr,”nrjvgnPhrmnIhkrz,n“Vnpbrfnizfnfk
p nykhum”


VVV

Qzhnfqbrnfbhcvcinqzhndjxunkcnpznyjrntkhfbcjfzw nckf,ntkhnp nlbrf
ahzkxxbajfvkcr,njnrcbdnfqjfnxkbwgnxqzxunfqznihkyfqnktnkbhnpbfbjw
zrfzzpmnYznpzf,njtfzhnVnqjgndhkbiqfnqkpznwvffwznPvwzr,npkhznvcfvpjfzw 
fqjcnzozhnkcnfqznihkbcgnktnp nrfbaztjxfvkc,np nizczhjwnzpkfvkc:nrk
pkcrfhkbrnyjrnVnfqzcnhzjg nfknahkckbcxznvfnfqjfnrbxqnjnxqvwgnjrnqjgncky
dzzcnhzozjwzgnfknpznrqkbwgndznbcgzhnjcnvcfzhgvxfmnVnyjrnjnwvffwznwjfz
kcnfqznrxzcz,njcgnVntzwf,njrnqznrfkkgnyvrftbww nwkkuvcinkbfntkhnpz
dztkhznfqzngkkhnktnfqznvccnjfnyqvxqnfqznxkjxqnqjgnabfnqvpngkyc,nfqjfnV
qjgnrzzcnqvp,nkcnfqznvcrfjcf,nyvfqkbfnjcgnyvfqvc,nvcnfqznihzjfniwkynkt
thzrqczrr,nfqznrjpznakrvfvoznthjihjcxznktnabhvf ,nvcnyqvxqnVnqjg,nthkp
fqzntvhrfnpkpzcf,nrzzcnqvrnwvffwznrvrfzhmnQznyjrnvcxhzgvdw ndzjbfvtbw,
jcgnPhrmnIhkrznqjgnabfnqzhntvcizhnkcnvf:nzozh fqvcindbfnjnrkhfnkt
ajrrvkcnktnfzcgzhczrrntkhnqvpnyjrnryzafnjyj nd nqvrnahzrzcxzmnYqjfnV
fqzcnjcgnfqzhznfkkunqvpnfknp nqzjhfntkhnyjrnrkpzfqvcingvovcznfqjfnV
qjoznczozhntkbcgnfknfqznrjpzngzihzznvcnjc nxqvwg—qvrnvcgzrxhvdjdwz
wvffwznjvhnktnuckyvcinckfqvcinvcnfqznykhwgndbfnwkozmnVfnykbwgnqjozndzzc
vpakrrvdwznfknxjhh njndjgncjpznyvfqnjnihzjfzhnryzzfczrrnktnvcckxzcxz,
jcgnd nfqznfvpznVnqjgnikfndjxunfknDw nyvfqnqvpnVnhzpjvczgnpzhzw 
dzyvwgzhzg—rkntjh,nfqjfnvr,njrnVnyjrnckfnkbfhjizg—d nfqznrzcrznktnfqz
qkhhvdwznwzffzhnwkxuzgnbanvcnp nhkkp,nvcnjnghjyzhmnJrnrkkcnjrnVnxkbwg
xkpajrrnjnahvojfznykhgnyvfqnPhrmnIhkrznVngzxwjhzgnfknqzhnfqjfnvfnyjr
ihkfzrebzm

Rqznahkpafw nbcgzhrfkkgnpzmn“ kbnpzjcnfqznxhbzwnxqjhiz—?”

“Vfngkzrc’fnwvoznjcnvcrfjcfmnP ngzjhnykpjc,n_wkku_njfnqvp!”

Rqznrpvwzgnjfnp nahzfzcfvkcnfknqjozngvrxkozhzgnqvrnxqjhpmn“Vnjrrbhz
 kb,npvrr,nVngknckfqvcinzwrz!nYqjfnyvwwn kbnrj ,nfqzc?”nrqznvppzgvjfzw 
jggzgm

“Vcnjcryzhnfknfqznwzffzh?”nVnqjgnpjgznbanp npvcgmn“Ckfqvcim”

“Jcgnfknqvrnbcxwz?”

Vnyjrnvcxvrvozmn“Ckfqvcim”

“Jcgnfknfqzndk nqvprzwt?”

Vnyjrnykcgzhtbwmn“Ckfqvcim”

Rqznijoznyvfqnqzhnjahkcnjnihzjfnyvaznfknqzhnpkbfqmn“FqzcnV’wwnrfjcgnd 
 kbmnYz’wwnrzznvfnkbfm”

“Yz’wwnrzznvfnkbf!”nVnjhgzcfw nzxqkzg,nivovcinqzhnp nqjcgnfknpjuznvfnj
okym

Rqznqzwgnpznfqzhznjnpkpzcf,nfqzcnyqvruzgnbanqzhnjahkcnjijvcnyvfqnqzh
gzfjxqzgnqjcgmn“Ykbwgn kbnpvcg,npvrr,nvtnVnbrzgnfqznthzzgkp—”

“Fknuvrrnpz?nCk!”nVnfkkunfqznikkgnxhzjfbhznvcnp njhprnjcg,njtfzhnyznqjg
zpdhjxzgnwvuznrvrfzhr,ntzwfnrfvwwnpkhzntkhfvtvzgnjcgnvcgvicjcfm

Fqvr,njfnjwwnzozcfr,nyjrntkhnfqznfvpz:njnfvpznrkntbwwnfqjf,njrnVnhzxjww
fqznyj nvfnyzcf,nvfnhzpvcgrnpznktnjwwnfqznjhfnVnckynczzgnfknpjuznvfnj
wvffwzngvrfvcxfmnYqjfnVnwkkundjxunjfnyvfqnjpjszpzcfnvrnfqznrvfbjfvkcnV
jxxzafzgmnVnqjgnbcgzhfjuzc,nyvfqnp nxkpajcvkc,nfknrzznvfnkbf,njcgnVnyjr
bcgzhnjnxqjhp,njaajhzcfw ,nfqjfnxkbwgnrpkkfqnjyj nfqznz.fzcfnjcgnfqz
tjhnjcgngvttvxbwfnxkcczxfvkcrnktnrbxqnjcnzttkhfmnVnyjrnwvtfzgnjwktfnkc
jnihzjfnyjoznktnvctjfbjfvkcnjcgnavf mnVntkbcgnvfnrvpawz,nvcnp 
vickhjcxz,np nxkctbrvkc,njcgnazhqjarnp nxkcxzvf,nfknjrrbpznfqjfnVnxkbwg
gzjwnyvfqnjndk nyqkrznzgbxjfvkcntkhnfqznykhwgnyjrnjwwnkcnfqznakvcfnkt
dzivccvcimnVnjpnbcjdwznzozcnfknhzpzpdzhnjfnfqvrngj nyqjfnahkakrjwnV
thjpzgntkhnfqznzcgnktnqvrnqkwvgj rnjcgnfqznhzrbpafvkcnktnqvrnrfbgvzrm
Wzrrkcrnyvfqnpz,nvcgzzg,nfqjfnxqjhpvcinrbppzh,nyznjwwnqjgnjnfqzkh nfqjf
qznyjrnfknqjoz;ndbfnVnckyntzzwnfqjf,ntkhnyzzur,nfqznwzrrkcrnpbrfnqjoz
dzzcnhjfqzhnp nkycmnVnwzjhczgnrkpzfqvci—jfntvhrf,nxzhfjvcw —fqjfnqjg
ckfndzzcnkcznktnfqznfzjxqvcirnktnp nrpjww,nrpkfqzhzgnwvtz;nwzjhczgnfk
dznjpbrzg,njcgnzozcnjpbrvci,njcgnckfnfknfqvcuntkhnfqznpkhhkymnVfnyjr
fqzntvhrfnfvpz,nvcnjnpjcczh,nfqjfnVnqjgnuckycnrajxznjcgnjvhnjcg
thzzgkp,njwwnfqznpbrvxnktnrbppzhnjcgnjwwnfqznp rfzh nktncjfbhzmnJcg
fqzcnfqzhznyjrnxkcrvgzhjfvkc—jcgnxkcrvgzhjfvkcnyjrnryzzfmnKq,nvfnyjrnj
fhja—ckfngzrviczg,ndbfngzza—fknp nvpjivcjfvkc,nfknp ngzwvxjx ,nazhqjar
fknp nojcvf ;nfknyqjfzozh,nvcnpz,nyjrnpkrfnz.xvfjdwzmnFqzndzrfnyj nfk
avxfbhznvfnjwwnvrnfknrj nfqjfnVnyjrnkttnp nibjhgmnFqz nijoznpznrk
wvffwznfhkbdwz—fqz nyzhznktnjnizcfwzczrrnrknz.fhjkhgvcjh mnVnbrzgnfk
razxbwjfz—dbfnzozcnfqvrnyvfqnjngvpngvrxkcczxfzgczrr—jrnfknqkynfqznhkbiq
tbfbhzn(tkhnjwwntbfbhzrnjhznhkbiq!)nykbwgnqjcgwznfqzpnjcgnpviqfndhbvrz
fqzpmnFqz nqjgnfqzndwkkpnktnqzjwfqnjcgnqjaavczrr;njcgn zf,njrnvtnVnqjg
dzzcnvcnxqjhiznktnjnajvhnktnwvffwznihjcgzzr,nktnahvcxzrnktnfqzndwkkg,
tkhnyqkpnzozh fqvci,nfkndznhviqf,nykbwgnqjoznfkndznzcxwkrzgnjcg
ahkfzxfzg,nfqznkcw ntkhpnfqjf,nvcnp ntjcx ,nfqznjtfzh zjhrnxkbwgnfjuz
tkhnfqzpnyjrnfqjfnktnjnhkpjcfvx,njnhzjww nhk jwnz.fzcrvkcnktnfqznijhgzc
jcgnfqznajhumnVfnpj ndz,nktnxkbhrz,njdkoznjww,nfqjfnyqjfnrbggzcw ndhkuz
vcfknfqvrnivozrnfqznahzovkbrnfvpznjnxqjhpnktnrfvwwczrr—fqjfnqbrqnvc
yqvxqnrkpzfqvcinijfqzhrnkhnxhkbxqzrmnFqznxqjciznyjrnjxfbjww nwvuznfqz
rahvcinktnjndzjrfm

Vcnfqzntvhrfnyzzurnfqzngj rnyzhznwkci;nfqz nktfzc,njfnfqzvhntvczrf,
ijoznpznyqjfnVnbrzgnfknxjwwnp nkycnqkbh,nfqznqkbhnyqzc,ntkhnp nabavwr,
fzjfvpznjcgndzgfvpznqjovcinxkpznjcgnikcz,nVnqjg,ndztkhznp ntvcjw
hzfvhzpzcf,njnrpjwwnvcfzhojwnjwkczmnPbxqnjrnVnwvuzgnp nxkpajcvkcr,nfqvr
qkbhnyjrnfqznfqvcinvcnfqzngj nVnwvuzgnpkrf;njcgnVnwvuzgnvfndzrfnktnjww
yqzc,njrnfqznwviqfntjgzg—khnhjfqzh,nVnrqkbwgnrj ,nfqzngj nwvcizhzgnjcg
fqznwjrfnxjwwrnktnfqznwjrfndvhgrnrkbcgzg,nvcnjntwbrqzgnru ,nthkpnfqz
kwgnfhzzr—Vnxkbwgnfjuznjnfbhcnvcfknfqznihkbcgrnjcgnzclk ,njwpkrfnyvfqnj
rzcrznktnahkazhf nfqjfnjpbrzgnjcgntwjffzhzgnpz,nfqzndzjbf njcgngvicvf 
ktnfqznawjxzmnVfnyjrnjnawzjrbhznjfnfqzrznpkpzcfrnfkntzzwnp rzwt
fhjcebvwnjcgnlbrfvtvzg;ngkbdfwzrr,nazhqjar,njwrknfknhztwzxfnfqjfnd np 
gvrxhzfvkc,np nebvzfnikkgnrzcrznjcgnizczhjwnqviqnahkahvzf ,nVnyjr
ivovcinawzjrbhz—vtnqznzozhnfqkbiqfnktnvf!—fknfqznazhrkcnfknyqkrz
ahzrrbhznVnqjgnhzrakcgzgmnYqjfnVnyjrngkvcinyjrnyqjfnqznqjgnzjhczrfw 
qkazgnjcgngvhzxfw njruzgnktnpz,njcgnfqjfnVn_xkbwg_,njtfzhnjww,ngknvf
ahkozgnzozcnjnihzjfzhnlk nfqjcnVnqjgnz.azxfzgmnVngjhzrj nVntjcxvzg
p rzwt,nvcnrqkhf,njnhzpjhujdwzn kbcinykpjcnjcgnfkkunxkptkhfnvcnfqz
tjvfqnfqjfnfqvrnykbwgnpkhznabdwvxw njaazjhmnYzww,nVnczzgzgnfkndz
hzpjhujdwznfknkttzhnjnthkcfnfknfqznhzpjhujdwznfqvcirnfqjfnahzrzcfw 
ijoznfqzvhntvhrfnrvicm

Vfnyjrnawbpa,nkcznjtfzhckkc,nvcnfqznpvggwznktnp nozh nqkbh:nfqz
xqvwghzcnyzhznfbxuzgnjyj ,njcgnVnqjgnxkpznkbfntkhnp nrfhkwwmnKcznktnfqz
fqkbiqfrnfqjf,njrnVngkc’fnvcnfqznwzjrfnrqhvcunckynthkpnckfvci,nbrzgnfk
dznyvfqnpznvcnfqzrznyjcgzhvcirnyjrnfqjfnvfnykbwgndznjrnxqjhpvcinjrnj
xqjhpvcinrfkh nrbggzcw nfknpzzfnrkpzkczmnRkpzkcznykbwgnjaazjhnfqzhznjf
fqznfbhcnktnjnajfqnjcgnykbwgnrfjcgndztkhznpznjcgnrpvwznjcgnjaahkozmnV
gvgc’fnjrunpkhznfqjcnfqjf—Vnkcw njruzgnfqjfnqznrqkbwgn_ucky;_njcgnfqz
kcw nyj nfkndznrbhznqznuczynykbwgndznfknrzznvf,njcgnfqznuvcgnwviqfnkt
vf,nvcnqvrnqjcgrkpzntjxzmnFqjfnyjrnz.jxfw nahzrzcfnfknpz—d nyqvxqnV
pzjcnfqzntjxznyjr—yqzc,nkcnfqzntvhrfnktnfqzrznkxxjrvkcr,njfnfqznzcgnkt
jnwkcinLbczngj ,nVnrfkaazgnrqkhfnkcnzpzhivcinthkpnkcznktnfqz
awjcfjfvkcrnjcgnxkpvcinvcfknovzynktnfqznqkbrzmnYqjfnjhhzrfzgnpznkcnfqz
rakf—jcgnyvfqnjnrqkxunpbxqnihzjfzhnfqjcnjc novrvkcnqjgnjwwkyzgntkh—yjr
fqznrzcrznfqjfnp nvpjivcjfvkcnqjg,nvcnjntwjrq,nfbhczgnhzjwmnQzngvg
rfjcgnfqzhz!—dbfnqviqnba,ndz kcgnfqznwjycnjcgnjfnfqznozh nfkanktnfqz
fkyzhnfknyqvxq,nkcnfqjfntvhrfnpkhcvci,nwvffwznTwkhjnqjgnxkcgbxfzgnpzm
Fqvrnfkyzhnyjrnkcznktnjnajvh—rebjhz,nvcxkcihbkbr,nxhzczwjfzg
rfhbxfbhzr—fqjfnyzhzngvrfvcibvrqzg,ntkhnrkpznhzjrkc,nfqkbiqnVnxkbwgnrzz
wvffwzngvttzhzcxz,njrnfqznczynjcgnfqznkwgmnFqz ntwjcuzgnkaakrvfznzcgr
ktnfqznqkbrznjcgnyzhznahkdjdw njhxqvfzxfbhjwnjdrbhgvfvzr,nhzgzzpzgnvcnj
pzjrbhznvcgzzgnd nckfndzvcinyqkww ngvrzcijizgnckhnktnjnqzviqfnfkk
ahzfzcfvkbr,ngjfvci,nvcnfqzvhnivcizhdhzjgnjcfvebvf ,nthkpnjnhkpjcfvx
hzovojwnfqjfnyjrnjwhzjg njnhzrazxfjdwznajrfmnVnjgpvhzgnfqzp,nqjg
tjcxvzrnjdkbfnfqzp,ntkhnyznxkbwgnjwwnahktvfnvcnjngzihzz,nzrazxvjww 
yqzcnfqz nwkkpzgnfqhkbiqnfqzngbru,nd nfqznihjcgzbhnktnfqzvhnjxfbjw
djffwzpzcfr;n zfnvfnyjrnckfnjfnrbxqnjcnzwzojfvkcnfqjfnfqzntvibhznVnqjg
rknktfzcnvcokuzgnrzzpzgnpkrfnvcnawjxzm

Vfnahkgbxzgnvcnpz,nfqvrntvibhz,nvcnfqznxwzjhnfyvwviqf,nVnhzpzpdzh,nfyk
gvrfvcxfnijrarnktnzpkfvkc,nyqvxqnyzhz,nrqjhaw ,nfqznrqkxunktnp ntvhrf
jcgnfqjfnktnp nrzxkcgnrbhahvrzmnP nrzxkcgnyjrnjnovkwzcfnazhxzafvkcnkt
fqznpvrfjuznktnp ntvhrf:nfqznpjcnyqknpzfnp nz zrnyjrnckfnfqznazhrkcnV
qjgnahzxvavfjfzw nrbaakrzgmnFqzhznxjpznfknpznfqbrnjndzyvwgzhpzcfnkt
ovrvkcnktnyqvxq,njtfzhnfqzrzn zjhr,nfqzhznvrncknwvovcinovzynfqjfnVnxjc
qkaznfknivozmnJcnbcuckycnpjcnvcnjnwkczw nawjxznvrnjnazhpvffzgnkdlzxfnkt
tzjhnfknjn kbcinykpjcnahvojfzw ndhzg;njcgnfqzntvibhznfqjfntjxzgnpz
yjr—jntzynpkhznrzxkcgrnjrrbhzgnpz—jrnwvffwznjc kcznzwrznVnuczynjrnvf
yjrnfqznvpjiznfqjfnqjgndzzcnvcnp npvcgmnVnqjgnckfnrzzcnvfnvcnQjhwz 
Rfhzzf—Vnqjgnckfnrzzcnvfnjc yqzhzmnFqznawjxz,npkhzkozh,nvcnfqz
rfhjcizrfnyj nvcnfqznykhwg,nqjg,nkcnfqznvcrfjcf,njcgnd nfqznozh ntjxf
ktnvfrnjaazjhjcxz,ndzxkpznjnrkwvfbgzmnFknpznjfnwzjrf,npjuvcinp 
rfjfzpzcfnqzhznyvfqnjngzwvdzhjfvkcnyvfqnyqvxqnVnqjoznczozhnpjgznvf,nfqz
yqkwzntzzwvcinktnfqznpkpzcfnhzfbhcrmnVfnyjrnjrnvt,nyqvwznVnfkkunvc—yqjf
Vngvgnfjuznvc—jwwnfqznhzrfnktnfqznrxzcznqjgndzzcnrfhvxuzcnyvfqngzjfqmnV
xjcnqzjhnjijvc,njrnVnyhvfz,nfqznvcfzcrznqbrqnvcnyqvxqnfqznrkbcgrnkt
zozcvcinghkaazgmnFqznhkkurnrfkaazgnxjyvcinvcnfqznikwgzcnru ,njcgnfqz
thvzcgw nqkbhnwkrf,ntkhnfqznpvcbfz,njwwnvfrnokvxzmnDbfnfqzhznyjrnck
kfqzhnxqjciznvcncjfbhz,nbcwzrrnvcgzzgnvfnyzhznjnxqjciznfqjfnVnrjynyvfq
jnrfhjcizhnrqjhaczrrmnFqznikwgnyjrnrfvwwnvcnfqznru ,nfqznxwzjhczrrnvc
fqznjvh,njcgnfqznpjcnyqknwkkuzgnjfnpznkozhnfqzndjffwzpzcfrnyjrnjr
gztvcvfznjrnjnavxfbhznvcnjnthjpzmnFqjf’rnqkynVnfqkbiqf,nyvfq
z.fhjkhgvcjh nebvxuczrr,nktnzjxqnazhrkcnfqjfnqznpviqfnqjozndzzcnjcg
fqjfnqznyjrnckfmnYznyzhznxkcthkcfzgnjxhkrrnkbhngvrfjcxznebvfznwkci
zckbiqntkhnpznfknjrunp rzwtnyvfqnvcfzcrvf nyqknfqzcnqznyjrnjcgnfkntzzw,
jrnjcnzttzxfnktnp nvcjdvwvf nfknrj ,njnykcgzhnfqjfnvcnjntzynvcrfjcfr
pkhzndzxjpznvcfzcrzm

Fqznihzjfnebzrfvkc,nkhnkcznktnfqzrz,nvr,njtfzhyjhg,nVnucky,nyvfqnhzijhg
fknxzhfjvcnpjffzhr,nfqznebzrfvkcnktnqkynwkcinfqz nqjoznwjrfzgmnYzww,
fqvrnpjffzhnktnpvcz,nfqvcunyqjfn kbnyvwwnktnvf,nwjrfzgnyqvwznVnxjbiqf
jfnjngkszcnakrrvdvwvfvzr,nckcznktnyqvxqnpjgznjngvttzhzcxzntkhnfqz
dzffzh,nfqjfnVnxkbwgnrzz,nvcnfqzhznqjovcindzzcnvcnfqznqkbrz—jcgntkhnqky
wkci,njdkoznjww?—jnazhrkcnktnyqkpnVnyjrnvcnvickhjcxzmnVfnwjrfzgnyqvwznV
lbrfndhvgwzgnjnwvffwznyvfqnfqznrzcrznfqjfnp nkttvxzngzpjcgzgnfqjfnfqzhz
rqkbwgndzncknrbxqnvickhjcxznjcgncknrbxqnazhrkcmnVfnwjrfzgnyqvwznfqvr
ovrvfjcf,njfnjwwnzozcfr—jcgnfqzhznyjrnjnfkbxqnktnfqznrfhjciznthzzgkp,
jrnVnhzpzpdzh,nvcnfqznrvicnktntjpvwvjhvf nktnqvrnyzjhvcincknqjf—rzzpzg
fkntv.npz,nthkpnqvrnakrvfvkc,nyvfqnlbrfnfqznebzrfvkc,nlbrfnfqznrxhbfvc 
fqhkbiqnfqzntjgvcinwviqf,nfqjfnqvrnkycnahzrzcxznahkokuzgmnYznyzhznfkk
tjhnjajhfnfknxjwwnfknzjxqnkfqzh,ndbfnfqzhznyjrnjnpkpzcfnjfnyqvxq,njf
rqkhfzhnhjciz,nrkpznxqjwwzcizndzfyzzcnbr,ndhzjuvcinfqznqbrq,nykbwgnqjoz
dzzcnfqznhviqfnhzrbwfnktnkbhnrfhjviqfnpbfbjwnrfjhzmnQznyjrnvcnkcznkt
fqznjciwzr,nfqznkcznjyj nthkpnfqznqkbrz,nozh nzhzxf,njrnvfnrfhbxunpz,
jcgnyvfqndkfqnqjcgrnkcnfqznwzgizmnRknVnrjynqvpnjrnVnrzznfqznwzffzhrnV
tkhpnkcnfqvrnajiz;nfqzc,nz.jxfw ,njtfzhnjnpvcbfz,njrnvtnfknjggnfknfqz
razxfjxwz,nqznrwkyw nxqjcizgnqvrnawjxz—ajrrzg,nwkkuvcinjfnpznqjhgnjww
fqznyqvwz,nfknfqznkaakrvfznxkhczhnktnfqznawjftkhpmn zr,nVnqjgnfqz
rqjhazrfnrzcrznfqjfngbhvcinfqvrnfhjcrvfnqznczozhnfkkunqvrnz zrnthkpnpz,
jcgnVnxjcnrzznjfnfqvrnpkpzcfnfqznyj nqvrnqjcg,njrnqznyzcf,najrrzgnthkp
kcznktnfqznxhzczwjfvkcrnfknfqzncz.fmnQznrfkaazgnjfnfqznkfqzhnxkhczh,
dbfnwzrrnwkci,njcgnzozcnjrnqznfbhczgnjyj nrfvwwnpjhuzgw ntv.zgnpzmnQz
fbhczgnjyj ;nfqjfnyjrnjwwnVnuczym


VO

VfnyjrnckfnfqjfnVngvgc’fnyjvf,nkcnfqvrnkxxjrvkc,ntkhnpkhz,ntkhnVnyjr
hkkfzgnjrngzzaw njrnVnyjrnrqjuzcmnYjrnfqzhznjn“rzxhzf”njfnDw —jnp rfzh 
ktnBgkwaqknkhnjcnvcrjcz,njcnbcpzcfvkcjdwznhzwjfvoznuzafnvcnbcrbrazxfzg
xkctvczpzcf?nVnxjc’fnrj nqkynwkcinVnfbhczgnvfnkozh,nkhnqkynwkci,nvcnj
xkctbrvkcnktnxbhvkrvf njcgnghzjg,nVnhzpjvczgnyqzhznVnqjgnqjgnp 
xkwwvrvkc;nVnkcw nhzxjwwnfqjfnyqzcnVnhz-zcfzhzgnfqznqkbrzngjhuczrrnqjg
ebvfznxwkrzgnvcmnJivfjfvkc,nvcnfqznvcfzhojw,nxzhfjvcw nqjgnqzwgnpznjcg
ghvozcnpz,ntkhnVnpbrf,nvcnxvhxwvcinjdkbfnfqznawjxz,nqjoznyjwuzgnfqhzz
pvwzr;ndbfnVnyjrnfkndz,nwjfzhnkc,nrknpbxqnpkhznkozhyqzwpzgnfqjfnfqvr
pzhzngjycnktnjwjhpnyjrnjnxkpajhjfvozw nqbpjcnxqvwwmnFqznpkrfnrvcibwjh
ajhfnktnvf,nvcntjxf—rvcibwjhnjrnfqznhzrfnqjgndzzc—yjrnfqznajhfnV
dzxjpz,nvcnfqznqjww,njyjhznktnvcnpzzfvcinPhrmnIhkrzmnFqvrnavxfbhznxkpzr
djxunfknpznvcnfqznizczhjwnfhjvc—fqznvpahzrrvkc,njrnVnhzxzvozgnvfnkcnp 
hzfbhc,nktnfqznyvgznyqvfznajczwwzgnrajxz,ndhviqfnvcnfqznwjpawviqfnjcg
yvfqnvfrnakhfhjvfrnjcgnhzgnxjhazf,njcgnktnfqznikkgnrbhahvrzgnwkkunktnp 
thvzcg,nyqvxqnvppzgvjfzw nfkwgnpznrqznqjgnpvrrzgnpzmnVfnxjpznfknpz
rfhjviqfyj ,nbcgzhnqzhnxkcfjxf,nfqjf,nyvfqnawjvcnqzjhfvczrr,npzhz
hzwvzozgnjc.vzf njfnp njaazjhjcxz,nrqznuczynckfqvcinyqjfzozhnfqjfnxkbwg
dzjhnbakcnfqznvcxvgzcfnVnqjgnfqzhznhzjg ntkhnqzhmnVnqjgnckfnrbrazxfzg
vcnjgojcxznfqjfnqzhnxkptkhfjdwzntjxznykbwgnabwwnpznba,njcgnVnrkpzqky
pzjrbhzgnfqznvpakhfjcxznktnyqjfnVnqjgnrzzcnd np nfqbrntvcgvcinp rzwt
qzrvfjfznfknpzcfvkcnvfmnRxjhxznjc fqvcinvcnfqznyqkwznqvrfkh nrzzprnfk
pznrknkggnjrnfqvrntjxfnfqjfnp nhzjwndzivccvcinktntzjhnyjrnkcz,njrnVnpj 
rj ,nyvfqnfqznvcrfvcxfnktnrajhvcinp nxkpajcvkcmnKcnfqznrakf,
jxxkhgvciw ,nvcnfqznawzjrjcfnqjwwnjcgnyvfqnqzhnz zrnkcnpz,nV,ntkhnj
hzjrkcnfqjfnVnxkbwgc’fnfqzcnqjoznaqhjrzg,njxqvzozgnjcnvcyjhg
hzrkwbfvkc—kttzhzgnjnojibznahzfz.fntkhnp nwjfzczrrnjcg,nyvfqnfqznawzj
ktnfqzndzjbf nktnfqzncviqfnjcgnktnfqznqzjo ngzynjcgnyzfntzzf,nyzcfnjr
rkkcnjrnakrrvdwznfknp nhkkpm

Qzhznvfnyjrnjckfqzhnjttjvh;nqzhz,ntkhnpjc ngj rnjtfzh,nvfnyjrnjnebzzh
jttjvhnzckbiqmnFqzhznyzhznqkbhr,nthkpngj nfkngj —khnjfnwzjrfnfqzhznyzhz
pkpzcfr,nrcjfxqzgnzozcnthkpnxwzjhngbfvzr—yqzcnVnqjgnfknrqbfnp rzwtnba
fknfqvcumnVfnyjrnckfnrknpbxqn zfnfqjfnVnyjrnpkhznczhokbrnfqjcnVnxkbwg
dzjhnfkndznjrnfqjfnVnyjrnhzpjhujdw njthjvgnktndzxkpvcinrk;ntkhnfqz
fhbfqnVnqjgnckynfknfbhcnkozhnyjr,nrvpaw njcgnxwzjhw ,nfqznfhbfqnfqjfnV
xkbwgnjhhvoznjfncknjxxkbcfnyqjfzozhnktnfqznovrvfkhnyvfqnyqkpnVnqjgndzzc
rknvcz.awvxjdw njcgn zf,njrnvfnrzzpzgnfknpz,nrknvcfvpjfzw nxkcxzhczgm
VfnfkkunwvffwznfvpznfknrzznfqjfnVnxkbwgnrkbcgnyvfqkbfntkhprnktnvcebvh 
jcgnyvfqkbfnz.xvfvcinhzpjhunjc ngkpzrfvxnxkpawvxjfvkcrmnFqznrqkxunVnqjg
rbttzhzgnpbrfnqjoznrqjhazczgnjwwnp nrzcrzr;nVntzwfnrbhz,njfnfqznzcgnkt
fqhzzngj rnjcgnjrnfqznhzrbwfnktnpzhznxwkrzhnjffzcfvkc,nfqjfnVnqjgnckf
dzzcnahjxfvxzgnbakcnd nfqznrzhojcfrnckhnpjgznfqznkdlzxfnktnjc n“ijpzm”
KtnyqjfzozhnvfnyjrnfqjfnVnuczy,nckfqvcinyjrnuckycnjhkbcgnpzmnFqzhznyjr
dbfnkcznrjcznvctzhzcxz:nrkpzkcznqjgnfjuzcnjnwvdzhf nhjfqzhnihkrrmnFqjf
yjrnyqjf,nhzazjfzgw ,nVngvaazgnvcfknp nhkkpnjcgnwkxuzgnfqzngkkhnfknrj 
fknp rzwtmnYznqjgndzzc,nxkwwzxfvozw ,nrbdlzxfnfknjcnvcfhbrvkc;nrkpz
bcrxhbabwkbrnfhjozwzh,nxbhvkbrnvcnkwgnqkbrzr,nqjgnpjgznqvrnyj nvc
bckdrzhozg,nzclk zgnfqznahkrazxfnthkpnfqzndzrfnakvcfnktnovzy,njcgnfqzc
rfkwzcnkbfnjrnqznxjpzmnVtnqznqjgnivozcnpznrbxqnjndkwgnqjhgnrfjhz,nfqjf
yjrndbfnjnajhfnktnqvrnvcgvrxhzfvkcmnFqznikkgnfqvci,njtfzhnjww,nyjrnfqjf
yznrqkbwgnrbhzw nrzzncknpkhznktnqvpm

Fqvrnyjrnckfnrknikkgnjnfqvci,nVnjgpvf,njrnckfnfknwzjoznpznfknlbgiznfqjf
yqjf,nzrrzcfvjww ,npjgznckfqvcinzwrznpbxqnrvicvt nyjrnrvpaw np 
xqjhpvcinykhumnP nxqjhpvcinykhunyjrnlbrfnp nwvtznyvfqnPvwzrnjcgnTwkhj,
jcgnfqhkbiqnckfqvcinxkbwgnVnrknwvuznvfnjrnfqhkbiqntzzwvcinfqjfnVnxkbwg
fqhkynp rzwtnvcfknvfnvcnfhkbdwzmnFqznjffhjxfvkcnktnp nrpjwwnxqjhizrnyjr
jnxkcrfjcfnlk ,nwzjgvcinpznfknykcgzhnjthzrqnjfnfqznojcvf nktnp 
khvivcjwntzjhr,nfqzngvrfjrfznVnqjgndzibcnd nzcfzhfjvcvcintkhnfqz
ahkdjdwznihj nahkrznktnp nkttvxzmnFqzhznyjrnfkndzncknihj nahkrz,nvf
jaazjhzg,njcgncknwkcinihvcg;nrknqkynxkbwgnykhunckfndznxqjhpvcinfqjf
ahzrzcfzgnvfrzwtnjrngjvw ndzjbf ?nVfnyjrnjwwnfqznhkpjcxznktnfqzncbhrzh 
jcgnfqznakzfh nktnfqznrxqkkwhkkpmnVngkc’fnpzjcnd nfqvr,nktnxkbhrz,nfqjf
yznrfbgvzgnkcw ntvxfvkcnjcgnozhrz;nVnpzjcnVnxjcnz.ahzrrncknkfqzhyvrz
fqznrkhfnktnvcfzhzrfnp nxkpajcvkcrnvcravhzgmnQkynxjcnVngzrxhvdznfqjf
z.xzafnd nrj vcinfqjfnvcrfzjgnktnihkyvcinbrzgnfknfqzp—jcgnvf’rnjnpjhozw
tkhnjnikozhczrr:nVnxjwwnfqznrvrfzhqkkgnfknyvfczrr!—Vnpjgznxkcrfjcf
thzrqngvrxkozhvzrmnFqzhznyjrnkczngvhzxfvkc,njrrbhzgw ,nvcnyqvxqnfqzrz
gvrxkozhvzrnrfkaazg:ngzzankdrxbhvf nxkcfvcbzgnfknxkozhnfqznhzivkcnkt
fqzndk ’rnxkcgbxfnjfnrxqkkwmnVfnqjgndzzcnahkpafw nivozcnpz,nVnqjoz
ckfzg,nfkntjxznfqjfnp rfzh nyvfqkbfnjnajcimnAzhqjarnzozcnvfnykbwgndz
czjhzhnfqznfhbfqnfknrj nfqjf—yvfqkbfnjnykhg—qznqvprzwtnqjgnxwzjhzgnvf
bamnQznqjgnpjgznfqznyqkwznxqjhiznjdrbhgmnP nxkcxwbrvkcndwkkpzgnfqzhz
yvfqnfqznhzjwnhkrzntwbrqnktnqvrnvcckxzcxz:nqznyjrnkcw nfkkntvcznjcg
tjvhntkhnfqznwvffwznqkhhvg,nbcxwzjcnrxqkkw-ykhwg,njcgnqznqjgnajvgnj
ahvxzntkhnvfmnVnhztwzxfzgnjxbfzw nfqjfnfqznrzcrznktnrbxqngvttzhzcxzr,
rbxqnrbazhvkhvfvzrnktnebjwvf ,njwyj r,nkcnfqznajhfnktnfqz
pjlkhvf —yqvxqnxkbwgnvcxwbgznzozcnrfbavg,nrkhgvgnqzjgpjrfzhr—fbhc
vctjwwvdw nfknfqznovcgvxfvozm

Dkfqnfqznxqvwghzcnqjgnjnizcfwzczrrn(vfnyjrnfqzvhnkcw ntjbwf,njcgnvf
czozhnpjgznPvwzrnjnpbtt)nfqjfnuzafnfqzp—qkynrqjwwnVnz.ahzrrnvf?—jwpkrf
vpazhrkcjwnjcgnxzhfjvcw nebvfznbcabcvrqjdwzmnFqz nyzhznwvuznfqznxqzhbdr
ktnfqznjczxgkfz,nyqknqjg—pkhjww ,njfnjc nhjfz—ckfqvcinfknyqjxu!nV
hzpzpdzhntzzwvcinyvfqnPvwzrnvcnzrazxvjwnjrnvtnqznqjgnqjg,njrnvfnyzhz,
cknqvrfkh mnYznz.azxfnktnjnrpjwwnxqvwgnjnrxjcfnkcz,ndbfnfqzhznyjrnvc
fqvrndzjbfvtbwnwvffwzndk nrkpzfqvcinz.fhjkhgvcjhvw nrzcrvfvoz,n zf
z.fhjkhgvcjhvw nqjaa ,nfqjf,npkhznfqjcnvcnjc nxhzjfbhznktnqvrnjiznV
qjoznrzzc,nrfhbxunpznjrndzivccvcinjczynzjxqngj mnQznqjgnczozhntkhnj
rzxkcgnrbttzhzgmnVnfkkunfqvrnjrnjngvhzxfngvrahkktnktnqvrnqjovcinhzjww 
dzzcnxqjrfvrzgmnVtnqznqjgndzzcnyvxuzgnqznykbwgnqjozn“xjbiqf”nvf,njcgnV
rqkbwgnqjoznxjbiqfnvfnd nfqznhzdkbcg—VnrqkbwgnqjozntkbcgnfqznfhjxzmnV
tkbcgnckfqvcinjfnjww,njcgnqznyjrnfqzhztkhznjcnjcizwmnQznczozhnrakuznkt
qvrnrxqkkw,nczozhnpzcfvkczgnjnxkphjgznkhnjnpjrfzh;njcgnV,ntkhnp najhf,
yjrnebvfznfkknpbxqngvribrfzgnfknjwwbgznfknfqzpmnKtnxkbhrznVnyjrnbcgzh
fqznrazww,njcgnfqznykcgzhtbwnajhfnvrnfqjf,nzozcnjfnfqznfvpz,nV
azhtzxfw nuczynVnyjrmnDbfnVnijoznp rzwtnbanfknvf;nvfnyjrnjcnjcfvgkfznfk
jc najvc,njcgnVnqjgnpkhznajvcrnfqjcnkczmnVnyjrnvcnhzxzvafnvcnfqzrzngj r
ktngvrfbhdvcinwzffzhrnthkpnqkpz,nyqzhznfqvcirnyzhznckfnikvcinyzwwmnDbf
yvfqnp nxqvwghzc,nyqjfnfqvcirnvcnfqznykhwgnpjffzhzg?nFqjfnyjrnfqz
ebzrfvkcnVnbrzgnfknabfnfknp nrxhjaa nhzfvhzpzcfrmnVnyjrngjsswzgnd 
fqzvhnwkozwvczrrm

FqzhznyjrnjnRbcgj —fknizfnkc—yqzcnvfnhjvczgnyvfqnrbxqntkhxznjcgntkhnrk
pjc nqkbhrnfqjfnfqzhznxkbwgndzncknahkxzrrvkcnfknxqbhxq;nvcnxkcrzebzcxz
ktnyqvxq,njrnfqzngj ngzxwvczg,nVnqjgnjhhjcizgnyvfqnPhrmnIhkrznfqjf,
rqkbwgnfqznzozcvcinrqkynvpahkozpzcf,nyznykbwgnjffzcgnfkizfqzhnfqznwjfz
rzhovxzmnFqznhjvcnqjaavw nrfkaazg,njcgnVnahzajhzgntkhnkbhnyjwu,nyqvxq,
fqhkbiqnfqznajhunjcgnd nfqznikkgnhkjgnfknfqznovwwjiz,nykbwgndznjnpjffzh
ktnfyzcf npvcbfzrmnXkpvcingkycrfjvhrnfknpzzfnp nxkwwzjibznvcnfqznqjww,
Vnhzpzpdzhzgnjnajvhnktniwkozrnfqjfnqjgnhzebvhzgnfqhzznrfvfxqzrnjcgnfqjf
qjgnhzxzvozgnfqzp—yvfqnjnabdwvxvf nazhqjarnckfnzgvt vci—yqvwznVnrjf
yvfqnfqznxqvwghzcnjfnfqzvhnfzj,nrzhozgnkcnRbcgj r,nd nz.xzafvkc,nvc
fqjfnxkwg,nxwzjcnfzpawznktnpjqkijc njcgndhjrr,nfqzn“ihkyc-ba”ngvcvci
hkkpmnFqzniwkozrnqjgndzzcnghkaazgnfqzhz,njcgnVnfbhczgnvcnfknhzxkozh
fqzpmnFqzngj nyjrnihj nzckbiq,ndbfnfqznjtfzhckkcnwviqfnrfvwwnwvcizhzg,
jcgnvfnzcjdwzgnpz,nkcnxhkrrvcinfqznfqhzrqkwg,nckfnkcw nfknhzxkicvsz,nkc
jnxqjvhnczjhnfqznyvgznyvcgky,nfqzcnxwkrzg,nfqznjhfvxwzrnVnyjcfzg,ndbf
fkndzxkpznjyjhznktnjnazhrkcnkcnfqznkfqzhnrvgznktnfqznyvcgkynjcgnwkkuvci
rfhjviqfnvcmnKcznrfzanvcfknfqznhkkpnqjgnrbttvxzg;np novrvkcnyjr
vcrfjcfjczkbr;nvfnyjrnjwwnfqzhzmnFqznazhrkcnwkkuvcinrfhjviqfnvcnyjrnfqz
azhrkcnyqknqjgnjwhzjg njaazjhzgnfknpzmnQznjaazjhzgnfqbrnjijvcnyvfqnV
ykc’fnrj nihzjfzhngvrfvcxfczrr,ntkhnfqjfnyjrnvpakrrvdwz,ndbfnyvfqnj
czjhczrrnfqjfnhzahzrzcfzgnjntkhyjhgnrfhvgznvcnkbhnvcfzhxkbhrznjcgnpjgz
pz,njrnVnpzfnqvp,nxjfxqnp ndhzjfqnjcgnfbhcnxkwgmnQznyjrnfqznrjpz—qznyjr
fqznrjpz,njcgnrzzc,nfqvrnfvpz,njrnqznqjgndzzcnrzzcndztkhz,nthkpnfqz
yjvrfnba,nfqznyvcgky,nfqkbiqnfqzngvcvcinhkkpnyjrnkcnfqznihkbcgntwkkh,
ckfnikvcingkycnfknfqznfzhhjxznkcnyqvxqnqznrfkkgmnQvrntjxznyjrnxwkrznfk
fqzniwjrr,n zfnfqznzttzxfnktnfqvrndzffzhnovzynyjr,nrfhjcizw ,nkcw nfk
rqkynpznqkynvcfzcrznfqzntkhpzhnqjgndzzcmnQznhzpjvczgndbfnjntzy
rzxkcgr—wkcinzckbiqnfknxkcovcxznpznqznjwrknrjynjcgnhzxkicvszg;ndbfnvf
yjrnjrnvtnVnqjgndzzcnwkkuvcinjfnqvpntkhn zjhrnjcgnqjgnuckycnqvpnjwyj rm
Rkpzfqvci,nqkyzozh,nqjaazczgnfqvrnfvpznfqjfnqjgnckfnqjaazczgndztkhz;
qvrnrfjhznvcfknp ntjxz,nfqhkbiqnfqzniwjrrnjcgnjxhkrrnfqznhkkp,nyjrnjr
gzzanjcgnqjhgnjrnfqzc,ndbfnvfnebvffzgnpzntkhnjnpkpzcfngbhvcinyqvxqnV
xkbwgnrfvwwnyjfxqnvf,nrzznvfntv.nrbxxzrrvozw nrzozhjwnkfqzhnfqvcirmnKc
fqznrakfnfqzhznxjpznfknpznfqznjggzgnrqkxunktnjnxzhfvfbgznfqjfnvfnyjr
ckfntkhnpznqznqjgnxkpznfqzhzmnQznqjgnxkpzntkhnrkpzkcznzwrzm

Fqzntwjrqnktnfqvrnuckywzgiz—tkhnvfnyjrnuckywzgiznvcnfqznpvgrfnkt
ghzjg—ahkgbxzgnvcnpznfqznpkrfnz.fhjkhgvcjh nzttzxf,nrfjhfzgnjrnVnrfkkg
fqzhz,njnrbggzcnovdhjfvkcnktngbf njcgnxkbhjizmnVnrj nxkbhjizndzxjbrznV
yjrndz kcgnjwwngkbdfnjwhzjg ntjhnikczmnVndkbcgzgnrfhjviqfnkbfnktnfqz
gkkhnjijvc,nhzjxqzgnfqjfnktnfqznqkbrz,nikf,nvcnjcnvcrfjcf,nbakcnfqz
ghvoz,njcg,najrrvcinjwkcinfqznfzhhjxznjrntjrfnjrnVnxkbwgnhbrq,nfbhczgnj
xkhczhnjcgnxjpzntbwwnvcnrviqfmnDbfnvfnyjrnvcnrviqfnktnckfqvcincky—p 
ovrvfkhnqjgnojcvrqzgmnVnrfkaazg,nVnjwpkrfnghkaazg,nyvfqnfqznhzjwnhzwvzt
ktnfqvr;ndbfnVnfkkunvcnfqznyqkwznrxzcz—VnijoznqvpnfvpznfknhzjaazjhmnV
xjwwnvfnfvpz,ndbfnqkynwkcinyjrnvf?nVnxjc’fnrazjunfknfqznabhakrznfkgj 
ktnfqzngbhjfvkcnktnfqzrznfqvcirmnFqjfnuvcgnktnpzjrbhznpbrfnqjoznwztf
pz:nfqz nxkbwgc’fnqjoznwjrfzgnjrnfqz njxfbjww njaazjhzgnfknpznfknwjrfm
Fqznfzhhjxznjcgnfqznyqkwznawjxz,nfqznwjycnjcgnfqznijhgzcndz kcgnvf,njww
Vnxkbwgnrzznktnfqznajhu,nyzhznzpaf nyvfqnjnihzjfnzpafvczrrmnFqzhznyzhz
rqhbddzhvzrnjcgndvinfhzzr,ndbfnVnhzpzpdzhnfqznxwzjhnjrrbhjcxznVntzwf
fqjfnckcznktnfqzpnxkcxzjwzgnqvpmnQznyjrnfqzhznkhnyjrnckfnfqzhz:nckf
fqzhznvtnVngvgc’fnrzznqvpmnVnikfnqkwgnktnfqvr;nfqzc,nvcrfvcxfvozw ,
vcrfzjgnktnhzfbhcvcinjrnVnqjgnxkpz,nyzcfnfknfqznyvcgkymnVfnyjr
xkctbrzgw nahzrzcfnfknpznfqjfnVnkbiqfnfknawjxznp rzwtnyqzhznqznqjg
rfkkgmnVngvgnrk;nVnjaawvzgnp ntjxznfknfqznajcznjcgnwkkuzg,njrnqznqjg
wkkuzg,nvcfknfqznhkkpmnJrnvt,njfnfqvrnpkpzcf,nfknrqkynpznz.jxfw nyqjf
qvrnhjciznqjgndzzc,nPhrmnIhkrz,njrnVnqjgngkczntkhnqvprzwtnlbrfndztkhz,
xjpznvcnthkpnfqznqjwwmnYvfqnfqvrnVnqjgnfqzntbwwnvpjiznktnjnhzazfvfvkc
ktnyqjfnqjgnjwhzjg nkxxbhhzgmnRqznrjynpznjrnVnqjgnrzzcnp nkycnovrvfjcf;
rqznabwwzgnbanrqkhfnjrnVnqjgngkcz;nVnijoznqzhnrkpzfqvcinktnfqznrqkxu
fqjfnVnqjgnhzxzvozgmnRqznfbhczgnyqvfz,njcgnfqvrnpjgznpznjrunp rzwtnvtnV
qjgndwjcxqzgnjrnpbxqmnRqznrfjhzg,nvcnrqkhf,njcgnhzfhzjfzgnkcnlbrfn_p _
wvczr,njcgnVnuczynrqznqjgnfqzcnajrrzgnkbfnjcgnxkpznhkbcgnfknpznjcgnfqjf
Vnrqkbwgnahzrzcfw npzzfnqzhmnVnhzpjvczgnyqzhznVnyjr,njcgnyqvwznVnyjvfzg
VnfqkbiqfnktnpkhznfqvcirnfqjcnkczmnDbfnfqzhz’rnkcw nkcznVnfjuznrajxznfk
pzcfvkcmnVnykcgzhzgnyq n_rqz_nrqkbwgndznrxjhzgm


O

Kq,nrqznwzfnpznuckynjrnrkkcnjr,nhkbcgnfqznxkhczhnktnfqznqkbrz,nrqz
wkkpzgnjijvcnvcfknovzymn“Yqjfnvcnfqzncjpznktnikkgczrrnvrnfqznpjffzh—?”
Rqznyjrnckyntwbrqzgnjcgnkbfnktndhzjfqm

Vnrjvgnckfqvcinfvwwnrqznxjpznebvfznczjhmn“Yvfqnpz?”nVnpbrfnqjoznpjgznj
ykcgzhtbwntjxzmn“GknVnrqkynvf?”

“ kb’hznjrnyqvfznjrnjnrqzzfmn kbnwkkunjytbwm”

Vnxkcrvgzhzg;nVnxkbwgnpzzfnkcnfqvr,nyvfqkbfnrxhbawz,njc nvcckxzcxzmnP 
czzgnfknhzrazxfnfqzndwkkpnktnPhrmnIhkrz’rnqjgnghkaazg,nyvfqkbfnj
hbrfwz,nthkpnp nrqkbwgzhr,njcgnvtnVnyjozhzgntkhnfqznvcrfjcfnvfnyjrnckf
yvfqnyqjfnVnuzafndjxumnVnabfnkbfnp nqjcgnfknqzhnjcgnrqznfkkunvf;nVnqzwg
qzhnqjhgnjnwvffwz,nwvuvcinfkntzzwnqzhnxwkrznfknpzmnFqzhznyjrnjnuvcgnkt
rbaakhfnvcnfqznrq nqzjoznktnqzhnrbhahvrzmn“ kbnxjpzntkhnpzntkhnxqbhxq,
ktnxkbhrz,ndbfnVnxjc’fnikm”

“Qjrnjc fqvcinqjaazczg?”

“ zrmn kbnpbrfnuckynckymnGvgnVnwkkunozh nebzzh?”

“Fqhkbiqnfqvrnyvcgky?nGhzjgtbw!”

“Yzww,”nVnrjvg,n“V’ozndzzcnthviqfzczgm”nPhrmnIhkrz’rnz zrnz.ahzrrzg
awjvcw nfqjfn_rqz_nqjgncknyvrqnfkndz,n zfnjwrknfqjfnrqznuczynfkknyzww
qzhnawjxznckfnfkndznhzjg nfknrqjhznyvfqnpznjc npjhuzgnvcxkcozcvzcxzm
Kq,nvfnyjrnebvfznrzffwzgnfqjfnrqzn_pbrf_nrqjhz!n“Lbrfnyqjfn kbnrjynthkp
fqzngvcvcinhkkpnjnpvcbfznjiknyjrnfqznzttzxfnktnfqjfmnYqjfn_V_nrjy—lbrf
dztkhz—yjrnpbxqnykhrzm”

Qzhnqjcgnfviqfzczgmn“Yqjfnyjrnvf?”

“Jcnz.fhjkhgvcjh npjcmnWkkuvcinvcm”

“Yqjfnz.fhjkhgvcjh npjc?”

“Vnqjozc’fnfqznwzjrfnvgzjm”

PhrmnIhkrznijszgnhkbcgnbrnvcnojvcmn“Fqzcnyqzhznvrnqznikcz?”

“Vnuckynrfvwwnwzrrm”

“Qjozn kbnrzzcnqvpndztkhz?”

“ zr—kcxzmnKcnfqznkwgnfkyzhm”

Rqznxkbwgnkcw nwkkunjfnpznqjhgzhmn“Gkn kbnpzjcnqz’rnjnrfhjcizh?”

“Kq,nozh npbxq!”

“ zfn kbngvgc’fnfzwwnpz?”

“Ck—tkhnhzjrkcrmnDbfnckynfqjfn kb’oznibzrrzg—”

PhrmnIhkrz’rnhkbcgnz zrnzcxkbcfzhzgnfqvrnxqjhizmn“Jq,nVnqjozc’f
ibzrrzg!”nrqznrjvgnozh nrvpaw mn“QkynxjcnVnvtn_ kb_ngkc’fnvpjivcz?”

“Vngkc’fnvcnfqznozh nwzjrfm”

“ kb’oznrzzcnqvpnckyqzhzndbfnkcnfqznfkyzh?”

“Jcgnkcnfqvrnrakfnlbrfnckym”

PhrmnIhkrznwkkuzgnhkbcgnjijvcmn“Yqjfnyjrnqzngkvcinkcnfqznfkyzh?”

“Kcw nrfjcgvcinfqzhznjcgnwkkuvcingkycnjfnpzm”

Rqznfqkbiqfnjnpvcbfzmn“Yjrnqznjnizcfwzpjc?”

VntkbcgnVnqjgncknczzgnfknfqvcumn“Ckm”nRqznijszgnvcngzzazhnykcgzhmn“Ckm”

“Fqzcnckdkg njdkbfnfqznawjxz?nCkdkg nthkpnfqznovwwjiz?”

“Ckdkg —ckdkg mnVngvgc’fnfzwwn kb,ndbfnVnpjgznrbhzm”

Rqzndhzjfqzgnjnojibznhzwvzt:nfqvrnyjr,nkggw ,nrknpbxqnfknfqznikkgmnVf
kcw nyzcfnvcgzzgnjnwvffwznyj mn“Dbfnvtnqznvrc’fnjnizcfwzpjc—”

“Yqjfn_vr_nqz?nQz’rnjnqkhhkhm”

“Jnqkhhkh?”

“Qz’r—IkgnqzwanpznvtnVnuckyn_yqjf_nqznvr!”

PhrmnIhkrznwkkuzgnhkbcgnkcxznpkhz;nrqzntv.zgnqzhnz zrnkcnfqzngbruvzh
gvrfjcxz,nfqzc,nabwwvcinqzhrzwtnfkizfqzh,nfbhczgnfknpznyvfqnjdhbaf
vcxkcrzebzcxzmn“Vf’rnfvpznyznrqkbwgndznjfnxqbhxqm”

“Kq,nV’pnckfntvfntkhnxqbhxq!”

“Ykc’fnvfngkn kbnikkg?”

“Vfnykc’fngkn_fqzp!_—nVnckggzgnjfnfqznqkbrzm

“Fqznxqvwghzc?”

“Vnxjc’fnwzjoznfqzpnckym”

“ kb’hznjthjvg—?”

Vnrakuzndkwgw mn“V’pnjthjvgnktn_qvp_m”

PhrmnIhkrz’rnwjhizntjxznrqkyzgnpz,njfnfqvr,ntkhnfqzntvhrfnfvpz,nfqz
tjhjyj ntjvcfniwvppzhnktnjnxkcrxvkbrczrrnpkhznjxbfz:nVnrkpzqkynpjgznkbf
vcnvfnfqzngzwj zgngjycnktnjcnvgzjnVnp rzwtnqjgnckfnivozcnqzhnjcgnfqjf
yjrnjrn zfnebvfznkdrxbhznfknpzmnVfnxkpzrndjxunfknpznfqjfnVnfqkbiqf
vcrfjcfw nktnfqvrnjrnrkpzfqvcinVnxkbwgnizfnthkpnqzh;njcgnVntzwfnvfnfk
dznxkcczxfzgnyvfqnfqzngzrvhznrqznahzrzcfw nrqkyzgnfknuckynpkhzmn“Yqzc
yjrnvf—kcnfqznfkyzh?”

“JdkbfnfqznpvggwznktnfqznpkcfqmnJfnfqvrnrjpznqkbhm”

“Jwpkrfnjfngjhu,”nrjvgnPhrmnIhkrzm

“Kq,nck,nckfnczjhw mnVnrjynqvpnjrnVnrzzn kbm”

“Fqzcnqkyngvgnqznizfnvc?”

“Jcgnqkyngvgnqznizfnkbf?”nVnwjbiqzgmn“Vnqjgncknkaakhfbcvf nfknjrunqvp!
Fqvrnzozcvci,n kbnrzz,”nVnabhrbzg,n“qznqjrnckfndzzcnjdwznfknizfnvcm”

“Qznkcw nazzar?”

“Vnqkaznvfnyvwwndznxkctvczgnfknfqjf!”nRqznqjgnckynwzfniknp nqjcg;nrqz
fbhczgnjyj njnwvffwzmnVnyjvfzgnjcnvcrfjcf;nfqzcnVndhkbiqfnkbf:n“Iknfk
xqbhxqmnIkkgd zmnVnpbrfnyjfxqm”

Rwkyw nrqzntjxzgnpznjijvcmn“Gkn kbntzjhntkhnfqzp?”

Yznpzfnvcnjckfqzhnwkcinwkkumn“Gkc’fn_ kb?_”nVcrfzjgnktnjcryzhvcinrqz
xjpznczjhzhnfknfqznyvcgkynjcg,ntkhnjnpvcbfz,njaawvzgnqzhntjxznfknfqz
iwjrrmn“ kbnrzznqkynqznxkbwgnrzz,”nVnpzjcyqvwznyzcfnkcm

Rqzngvgc’fnpkozmn“Qkynwkcinyjrnqznqzhz?”

“FvwwnVnxjpznkbfmnVnxjpznfknpzzfnqvpm”

PhrmnIhkrznjfnwjrfnfbhczgnhkbcg,njcgnfqzhznyjrnrfvwwnpkhznvcnqzhntjxzm
“_V_nxkbwgc’fnqjoznxkpznkbfm”

“CzvfqzhnxkbwgnV!”nVnwjbiqzgnjijvcmn“DbfnVngvgnxkpzmnVnqjoznp ngbf m”

“RknqjoznVnpvcz,”nrqznhzawvzg;njtfzhnyqvxqnrqznjggzg:n“Yqjfnvrnqz
wvuz?”

“V’ozndzzcng vcinfknfzwwn kbmnDbfnqz’rnwvuznckdkg m”

“Ckdkg ?”nrqznzxqkzgm

“Qznqjrncknqjfm”nFqzcnrzzvcinvcnqzhntjxznfqjfnrqznjwhzjg ,nvcnfqvr,
yvfqnjngzzazhngvrpj ,ntkbcgnjnfkbxqnktnavxfbhz,nVnebvxuw njggzgnrfhkuz
fknrfhkuzmn“Qznqjrnhzgnqjvh,nozh nhzg,nxwkrz-xbhwvci,njcgnjnajwzntjxz,
wkcinvcnrqjaz,nyvfqnrfhjviqf,nikkgntzjfbhzrnjcgnwvffwz,nhjfqzhnebzzh
yqvruzhrnfqjfnjhznjrnhzgnjrnqvrnqjvhmnQvrnz zdhkyrnjhz,nrkpzqky,
gjhuzh;nfqz nwkkunajhfvxbwjhw njhxqzgnjcgnjrnvtnfqz npviqfnpkoznjnikkg
gzjwmnQvrnz zrnjhznrqjha,nrfhjciz—jytbww ;ndbfnVnkcw nuckynxwzjhw nfqjf
fqz ’hznhjfqzhnrpjwwnjcgnozh ntv.zgmnQvrnpkbfq’rnyvgz,njcgnqvrnwvarnjhz
fqvc,njcgnz.xzafntkhnqvrnwvffwznyqvruzhrnqz’rnebvfznxwzjc-rqjozcmnQz
ivozrnpznjnrkhfnktnrzcrznktnwkkuvcinwvuznjcnjxfkhm”

“Jcnjxfkh!”nVfnyjrnvpakrrvdwznfknhzrzpdwznkcznwzrr,njfnwzjrf,nfqjcnPhrm
Ihkrznjfnfqjfnpkpzcfm

“V’oznczozhnrzzcnkcz,ndbfnrknVnrbaakrznfqzpmnQz’rnfjww,njxfvoz,nzhzxf,”
Vnxkcfvcbzg,n“dbfnczozh—ck,nczozh!—jnizcfwzpjcm”

P nxkpajcvkc’rntjxznqjgndwjcxqzgnjrnVnyzcfnkc;nqzhnhkbcgnz zrnrfjhfzg
jcgnqzhnpvwgnpkbfqnijazgmn“Jnizcfwzpjc?”nrqznijrazg,nxkctkbcgzg,
rfbaztvzg:n“jnizcfwzpjcn_qz?_”

“ kbnuckynqvpnfqzc?”

Rqznovrvdw nfhvzgnfknqkwgnqzhrzwtmn“Dbfnqzn_vr_nqjcgrkpz?”

Vnrjynfqznyj nfknqzwanqzhmn“Hzpjhujdw !”

“Jcgnghzrrzg—?”

“Vcnrkpzdkg ’rnxwkfqzrm”n“Fqz ’hznrpjhf,ndbfnfqz ’hznckfnqvrnkycm”

Rqzndhkuznvcfknjndhzjfqwzrrnjttvhpjfvoznihkjc:n“Fqz ’hznfqznpjrfzh’r!”

Vnxjbiqfnvfnbamn“ kbn_gk_nuckynqvp?”

Rqzntjwfzhzgndbfnjnrzxkcgmn“Ebvcf!”nrqznxhvzgm

“Ebvcf?”

“AzfzhnEbvcf—qvrnkycnpjc,nqvrnojwzf,nyqzcnqznyjrnqzhz!”

“Yqzcnfqznpjrfzhnyjr?”

Ijavcinrfvww,ndbfnpzzfvcinpz,nrqznavzxzgnvfnjwwnfkizfqzhmn“Qznczozh
ykhznqvrnqjf,ndbfnqzngvgnyzjh—yzww,nfqzhznyzhznyjvrfxkjfrnpvrrzgmnFqz 
yzhzndkfqnqzhz—wjrfn zjhmnFqzcnfqznpjrfzhnyzcf,njcgnEbvcfnyjrnjwkczm”

Vntkwwkyzg,ndbfnqjwfvcinjnwvffwzmn“Jwkcz?”

“Jwkcznyvfqn_br_m”nFqzc,njrnthkpnjngzzazhngzafq,n“Vcnxqjhiz,”nrqz
jggzgm

“Jcgnyqjfndzxjpznktnqvp?”

RqznqbcintvhznrknwkcinfqjfnVnyjrnrfvwwnpkhznp rfvtvzgmn“Qznyzcf,nfkk,”
rqzndhkbiqfnkbfnjfnwjrfm

“Yzcfnyqzhz?”

Qzhnz.ahzrrvkc,njfnfqvr,ndzxjpznz.fhjkhgvcjh mn“Ikgnuckyrnyqzhz!nQz
gvzgm”

“Gvzg?”nVnjwpkrfnrqhvzuzgm

Rqznrzzpzgntjvhw nfknrebjhznqzhrzwt,nawjcfnqzhrzwtnpkhzntvhpw nfknbffzh
fqznykcgzhnktnvfmn“ zrmnPhmnEbvcfnvrngzjgm”


OV

Vfnfkkunktnxkbhrznpkhznfqjcnfqjfnajhfvxbwjhnajrrjiznfknawjxznbr
fkizfqzhnvcnahzrzcxznktnyqjfnyznqjgnckynfknwvoznyvfqnjrnyznxkbwg—p 
ghzjgtbwnwvjdvwvf nfknvpahzrrvkcrnktnfqznkhgzhnrknovovgw nz.zpawvtvzg,
jcgnp nxkpajcvkc’rnuckywzgiz,nqzcxztkhfq—jnuckywzgiznqjwtnxkcrfzhcjfvkc
jcgnqjwtnxkpajrrvkc—ktnfqjfnwvjdvwvf mnFqzhznqjgndzzc,nfqvrnzozcvci,
jtfzhnfqznhzozwjfvkcnwztfnpz,ntkhnjcnqkbh,nrknahkrfhjfz—fqzhznqjgndzzc,
tkhnzvfqzhnktnbr,ncknjffzcgjcxznkcnjc nrzhovxzndbfnjnwvffwznrzhovxznkt
fzjhrnjcgnokyr,nktnahj zhrnjcgnahkpvrzr,njnxwvpj.nfknfqznrzhvzrnkt
pbfbjwnxqjwwzcizrnjcgnawzgizrnfqjfnqjgnrfhjviqfyj nzcrbzgnkcnkbh
hzfhzjfvcinfkizfqzhnfknfqznrxqkkwhkkpnjcgnrqbffvcinkbhrzwozrnbanfqzhz
fknqjoznzozh fqvcinkbfmnFqznhzrbwfnktnkbhnqjovcinzozh fqvcinkbfnyjr
rvpaw nfknhzgbxznkbhnrvfbjfvkcnfknfqznwjrfnhvikhnktnvfrnzwzpzcfrmnRqz
qzhrzwtnqjgnrzzcnckfqvci,nckfnfqznrqjgkynktnjnrqjgky,njcgnckdkg nvcnfqz
qkbrzndbfnfqznikozhczrrnyjrnvcnfqznikozhczrr’rnawviqf;n zfnrqznjxxzafzg
yvfqkbfngvhzxfw nvpabicvcinp nrjcvf nfqznfhbfqnjrnVnijoznvfnfknqzh,njcg
zcgzgnd nrqkyvcinpz,nkcnfqvrnihkbcg,njcnjyzrfhvxuzcnfzcgzhczrr,njc
z.ahzrrvkcnktnfqznrzcrznktnp npkhznfqjcnebzrfvkcjdwznahvovwziz,nkt
yqvxqnfqznozh ndhzjfqnqjrnhzpjvczgnyvfqnpznjrnfqjfnktnfqznryzzfzrfnkt
qbpjcnxqjhvfvzrm

Yqjfnyjrnrzffwzgndzfyzzcnbr,njxxkhgvciw ,nfqjfncviqf,nyjrnfqjfnyz
fqkbiqfnyznpviqfndzjhnfqvcirnfkizfqzh;njcgnVnyjrnckfnzozcnrbhznfqjf,nvc
ravfznktnqzhnz.zpafvkc,nvfnyjrnrqznyqknqjgnfqzndzrfnktnfqzndbhgzcmnV
uczynjfnfqvrnqkbh,nVnfqvcu,njrnyzwwnjrnVnuczynwjfzh,nyqjfnVnyjrnxjajdwz
ktnpzzfvcinfknrqzwfzhnp nabavwr;ndbfnvfnfkkunpznrkpznfvpznfkndznyqkww 
rbhznktnyqjfnp nqkczrfnjww nyjrnahzajhzgntkhnfknuzzanfzhprnyvfqnrk
xkpahkpvrvcinjnxkcfhjxfmnVnyjrnebzzhnxkpajc nzckbiq—ebvfznjrnebzzhnjr
fqznxkpajc nVnhzxzvozg;ndbfnjrnVnfhjxznkozhnyqjfnyznyzcfnfqhkbiqnVnrzz
qkynpbxqnxkppkcnihkbcgnyznpbrfnqjozntkbcgnvcnfqznkcznvgzjnfqjf,nd nikkg
tkhfbcz,n_xkbwg_nrfzjg nbrmnVfnyjrnfqznvgzj,nfqznrzxkcgnpkozpzcf,nfqjf
wzgnpznrfhjviqfnkbf,njrnVnpj nrj ,nktnfqznvcczhnxqjpdzhnktnp nghzjgmnV
xkbwgnfjuznfqznjvhnvcnfqznxkbhf,njfnwzjrf,njcgnfqzhznPhrmnIhkrznxkbwg
lkvcnpzmnAzhtzxfw nxjcnVnhzxjwwnckynfqznajhfvxbwjhnyj nrfhzcifqnxjpznfk
pzndztkhznyznrzajhjfzgntkhnfqzncviqfmnYznqjgnikcznkozhnjcgnkozhnzozh 
tzjfbhznktnyqjfnVnqjgnrzzcm

“Qznyjrnwkkuvcintkhnrkpzkcznzwrz,n kbnrj —rkpzkcznyqknyjrnckfn kb?”

“QznyjrnwkkuvcintkhnwvffwznPvwzrm”nJnakhfzcfkbrnxwzjhczrrnckynakrrzrrzg
pzmn“_Fqjf’r_nyqkpnqznyjrnwkkuvcintkhm”

“Dbfnqkyngkn kbnucky?”

“Vnucky,nVnucky,nVnucky!”nP nz.jwfjfvkcnihzymn“Jcgn_ kb_nucky,np 
gzjh!”

Rqzngvgc’fngzc nfqvr,ndbfnVnhzebvhzg,nVntzwf,nckfnzozcnrknpbxqnfzwwvci
jrnfqjfmnRqznhzrbpzgnvcnjnpkpzcf,njfnjc nhjfz:n“Yqjfnvtn_qz_nrqkbwgnrzz
qvp?”

“WvffwznPvwzr?nFqjf’rnyqjfnqznyjcfr!”

Rqznwkkuzgnvppzcrzw nrxjhzgnjijvcmn“Fqznxqvwg?”

“Qzjozcntkhdvg!nFqznpjcmnQznyjcfrnfknjaazjhnfkn_fqzp_m”nFqjfnqznpviqf
yjrnjcnjytbwnxkcxzafvkc,njcgn zf,nrkpzqky,nVnxkbwgnuzzanvfnjfndj ;
yqvxq,npkhzkozh,njrnyznwvcizhzgnfqzhz,nyjrnyqjfnVnrbxxzzgzgnvc
ahjxfvxjww nahkovcimnVnqjgnjcnjdrkwbfznxzhfjvcf nfqjfnVnrqkbwgnrzz
jijvcnyqjfnVnqjgnjwhzjg nrzzc,ndbfnrkpzfqvcinyvfqvcnpznrjvgnfqjfnd 
kttzhvcinp rzwtndhjozw njrnfqznrkwznrbdlzxfnktnrbxqnz.azhvzcxz,nd 
jxxzafvci,nd nvcovfvci,nd nrbhpkbcfvcinvfnjww,nVnrqkbwgnrzhoznjrnjc
z.avjfkh novxfvpnjcgnibjhgnfqznfhjcebvwvf nktnp nxkpajcvkcrmnFqz
xqvwghzc,nvcnzrazxvjw,nVnrqkbwgnfqbrntzcxznjdkbfnjcgnjdrkwbfzw nrjozmnV
hzxjwwnkcznktnfqznwjrfnfqvcirnVnrjvgnfqjfncviqfnfknPhrmnIhkrzm

“Vfngkzrnrfhvuznpznfqjfnp nabavwrnqjoznczozhnpzcfvkczg—”

RqznwkkuzgnjfnpznqjhgnjrnVnpbrvciw nabwwzgnbamn“Qvrnqjovcindzzcnqzhz
jcgnfqznfvpznfqz nyzhznyvfqnqvp?”

“Fqznfvpznfqz nyzhznyvfqnqvp,njcgnqvrncjpz,nqvrnahzrzcxz,nqvrnqvrfkh ,
vcnjc nyj m”

“Kq,nfqznwvffwznwjg ngkzrc’fnhzpzpdzhmnRqznczozhnqzjhgnkhnuczym”

“Fqznxvhxbprfjcxzrnktnqvrngzjfq?”nVnfqkbiqfnyvfqnrkpznvcfzcrvf m
“AzhqjarnckfmnDbfnPvwzrnykbwgnhzpzpdzh—Pvwzrnykbwgnuckym”

“Jq,ngkc’fnfh nqvp!”ndhkuznthkpnPhrmnIhkrzm

Vnhzfbhczgnqzhnfqznwkkunrqznqjgnivozcnpzmn“Gkc’fndznjthjvgm”nV
xkcfvcbzgnfknfqvcumn“Vfn_vr_nhjfqzhnkggm”

“Fqjfnqznqjrnczozhnrakuzcnktnqvp?”

“Czozhnd nfqznwzjrfnjwwbrvkcmnJcgn kbnfzwwnpznfqz nyzhzn‘ihzjf
thvzcgr’?”

“Kq,nvfnyjrc’fn_qvp!_”nPhrmnIhkrznyvfqnzpaqjrvrngzxwjhzgmn“Vfnyjr
Ebvcf’rnkycntjcx mnFknawj nyvfqnqvp,nVnpzjc—fknrakvwnqvpm”nRqznajbrzgnj
pkpzcf;nfqzcnrqznjggzg:n“Ebvcfnyjrnpbxqnfkknthzzm”

Fqvrnijoznpz,nrfhjviqfnthkpnp novrvkcnktnqvrntjxz—_rbxq_njntjxz!—j
rbggzcnrvxuczrrnktngvribrfmn“Fkknthzznyvfqn_p _ndk ?”

“Fkknthzznyvfqnzozh kcz!”

Vntkhdkhz,ntkhnfqznpkpzcf,nfknjcjw sznfqvrngzrxhvafvkcntbhfqzhnfqjcnd 
fqznhztwzxfvkcnfqjfnjnajhfnktnvfnjaawvzgnfknrzozhjwnktnfqznpzpdzhrnkt
fqznqkbrzqkwg,nktnfqznqjwt-gkszcnpjvgrnjcgnpzcnyqknyzhznrfvwwnktnkbh
rpjwwnxkwkc mnDbfnfqzhznyjrnzozh fqvci,ntkhnkbhnjaahzqzcrvkc,nvcnfqz
wbxu ntjxfnfqjfnckngvrxkptkhfjdwznwzizcg,ncknazhfbhdjfvkcnktnrxbwwvkcr,
qjgnzozh,nyvfqvcnjc kcz’rnpzpkh njffjxqzgnfknfqznuvcgnkwgnawjxzmnVfnqjg
czvfqzhndjgncjpznckhnvwwntjpz,njcgnPhrmnIhkrz,npkrfnjaajhzcfw ,nkcw 
gzrvhzgnfknxwvcinfknpznjcgnfknebjuznvcnrvwzcxzmnVnzozcnabfnqzh,nfqz
ozh nwjrfnfqvcinktnjww,nfknfqznfzrfmnVfnyjrnyqzc,njfnpvgcviqf,nrqznqjg
qzhnqjcgnkcnfqznrxqkkwhkkpngkkhnfknfjuznwzjozmn“Vnqjoznvfnthkpn kb
fqzc—tkhnvf’rnktnihzjfnvpakhfjcxz—fqjfnqznyjrngztvcvfzw njcgnjgpvffzgw 
djg?”

“Kq,nckfnjgpvffzgw mn_V_nuczynvf—dbfnfqznpjrfzhngvgc’fm”

“Jcgn kbnczozhnfkwgnqvp?”

“Yzww,nqzngvgc’fnwvuznfjwz-dzjhvci—qznqjfzgnxkpawjvcfrmnQznyjrnfzhhvdw 
rqkhfnyvfqnjc fqvcinktnfqjfnuvcg,njcgnvtnazkawznyzhznjwwnhviqfnfk
_qvp_—”

“Qznykbwgc’fndzndkfqzhzgnyvfqnpkhz?”nFqvrnrebjhzgnyzwwnzckbiqnyvfqnp 
vpahzrrvkcrnktnqvp:nqznyjrnckfnjnfhkbdwz-wkovcinizcfwzpjc,nckhnrknozh 
ajhfvxbwjhnazhqjarnjdkbfnrkpznktnfqznxkpajc n_qz_nuzafmnJwwnfqznrjpz,nV
ahzrrzgnp nvcfzhwkxbfhzrrmn“Vnahkpvrzn kbn_V_nykbwgnqjoznfkwg!”

Rqzntzwfnp ngvrxhvpvcjfvkcmn“Vngjhzrj nVnyjrnyhkcimnDbf,nhzjww ,nVnyjr
jthjvgm”

“Jthjvgnktnyqjf?”

“KtnfqvcirnfqjfnpjcnxkbwgngkmnEbvcfnyjrnrknxwzozh—qznyjrnrkngzzam”

Vnfkkunfqvrnvcnrfvwwnpkhznfqjc,nahkdjdw ,nVnrqkyzgmn“ kbnyzhzc’fnjthjvg
ktnjc fqvcinzwrz?nCkfnktnqvrnzttzxf—?”

“Qvrnzttzxf?”nrqznhzazjfzgnyvfqnjntjxznktnjcibvrqnjcgnyjvfvcinyqvwznV
tjwfzhzgm

“KcnvcckxzcfnwvffwznahzxvkbrnwvozrmnFqz nyzhznvcn kbhnxqjhizm”

“Ck,nfqz nyzhznckfnvcnpvcz!”nrqznhkbcgw njcgngvrfhzrrtbww nhzfbhczgm
“Fqznpjrfzhndzwvzozgnvcnqvpnjcgnawjxzgnqvpnqzhzndzxjbrznqznyjrnrbaakrzg
ckfnfkndznyzwwnjcgnfqznxkbcfh njvhnrknikkgntkhnqvpmnRknqznqjg
zozh fqvcinfknrj mn zr”—rqznwzfnpznqjoznvf—“zozcnjdkbfn_fqzp_m”

“Fqzp—fqjfnxhzjfbhz?”nVnqjgnfknrpkfqzhnjnuvcgnktnqkywmn“Jcgn kbnxkbwg
dzjhnvf!”

“CkmnVnxkbwgc’f—jcgnVnxjc’fncky!”nJcgnfqznakkhnykpjcndbhrfnvcfknfzjhrm

Jnhvivgnxkcfhkw,nthkpnfqzncz.fngj ,nyjr,njrnVnqjoznrjvg,nfkntkwwky
fqzp;n zfnqkynktfzcnjcgnqkynajrrvkcjfzw ,ntkhnjnyzzu,nyznxjpzndjxu
fkizfqzhnfknfqznrbdlzxf!nPbxqnjrnyznqjgngvrxbrrzgnvfnfqjfnRbcgj ncviqf,
Vnyjr,nvcnfqznvppzgvjfznwjfzhnqkbhrnvcnzrazxvjw—tkhnvfnpj ndznvpjivczg
yqzfqzhnVnrwzaf—rfvwwnqjbcfzgnyvfqnfqznrqjgkynktnrkpzfqvcinrqznqjgnckf
fkwgnpzmnVnp rzwtnqjgnuzafndjxunckfqvci,ndbfnfqzhznyjrnjnykhgnPhrm
IhkrznqjgnuzafndjxumnVnyjrnrbhz,npkhzkozh,nd npkhcvci,nfqjfnfqvrnyjr
ckfnthkpnjntjvwbhznktnthjcuczrr,ndbfndzxjbrznkcnzozh nrvgznfqzhznyzhz
tzjhrmnVfnrzzprnfknpznvcgzzg,nvcnhzfhkrazxf,nfqjfnd nfqznfvpznfqz
pkhhky’rnrbcnyjrnqviqnVnqjgnhzrfwzrrw nhzjgnvcfknfqzntjxfndztkhznbr
jwpkrfnjwwnfqznpzjcvcinfqz nyzhznfknhzxzvoznthkpnrbdrzebzcfnjcgnpkhz
xhbzwnkxxbhhzcxzrmnYqjfnfqz nijoznpznjdkoznjwwnyjrnlbrfnfqznrvcvrfzh
tvibhznktnfqznwvovcinpjc—fqzngzjgnkcznykbwgnuzzanjyqvwz!—jcgnktnfqz
pkcfqrnqznqjgnxkcfvcbkbrw najrrzgnjfnDw ,nyqvxq,njggzgnba,npjgznj
tkhpvgjdwznrfhzfxqmnFqznwvpvfnktnfqvrnzovwnfvpznqjgnjhhvozgnkcw nyqzc,
kcnfqzngjycnktnjnyvcfzh’rnpkhcvci,nAzfzhnEbvcfnyjrntkbcg,nd njnwjdkhzh
ikvcinfknzjhw nykhu,nrfkczngzjgnkcnfqznhkjgnthkpnfqznovwwjiz:nj
xjfjrfhkaqznz.awjvczg—rbazhtvxvjww njfnwzjrf—d njnovrvdwznykbcgnfknqvr
qzjg;nrbxqnjnykbcgnjrnpviqfnqjozndzzcnahkgbxzg—jcgnjr,nkcnfqzntvcjw
zovgzcxz,n_qjg_ndzzc—d njntjfjwnrwva,nvcnfqzngjhunjcgnjtfzhnwzjovcinfqz
abdwvxnqkbrz,nkcnfqznrfzzavrqnvx nrwkaz,njnyhkcinajfqnjwfkizfqzh,njf
fqzndkffkpnktnyqvxqnqznwj mnFqznvx nrwkaz,nfqznfbhcnpvrfjuzcnjfncviqf
jcgnvcnwvebkh,njxxkbcfzgntkhnpbxq—ahjxfvxjww ,nvcnfqznzcgnjcgnjtfzhnfqz
vcebzrfnjcgndkbcgwzrrnxqjffzh,ntkhnzozh fqvci;ndbfnfqzhznqjgndzzc
pjffzhrnvcnqvrnwvtz—rfhjciznajrrjizrnjcgnazhvwr,nrzxhzfngvrkhgzhr,
ovxzrnpkhznfqjcnrbrazxfzg—fqjfnykbwgnqjoznjxxkbcfzgntkhnjnikkgngzjw
pkhzm

Vnrxjhxznuckynqkynfknabfnp nrfkh nvcfknykhgrnfqjfnrqjwwndznjnxhzgvdwz
avxfbhznktnp nrfjfznktnpvcg;ndbfnVnyjrnvcnfqzrzngj rnwvfzhjww njdwznfk
tvcgnjnlk nvcnfqznz.fhjkhgvcjh ntwviqfnktnqzhkvrpnfqznkxxjrvkcngzpjcgzg
ktnpzmnVnckynrjynfqjfnVnqjgndzzcnjruzgntkhnjnrzhovxznjgpvhjdwznjcg
gvttvxbwf;njcgnfqzhznykbwgndznjnihzjfczrrnvcnwzffvcinvfndznrzzc—kq,nvc
fqznhviqfnebjhfzh!—fqjfnVnxkbwgnrbxxzzgnyqzhznpjc njckfqzhnivhwnpviqf
qjozntjvwzgmnVfnyjrnjcnvppzcrznqzwanfknpz—VnxkctzrrnVnhjfqzhnjaawjbg
p rzwtnjrnVnwkkundjxu!—fqjfnVnrjynp nrzhovxznrknrfhkciw njcgnrknrvpaw m
Vnyjrnfqzhznfknahkfzxfnjcgngztzcgnfqznwvffwznxhzjfbhzrnvcnfqznykhwgnfqz
pkrfndzhzjozgnjcgnfqznpkrfnwkojdwz,nfqznjaazjwnktnyqkrznqzwawzrrczrr
qjgnrbggzcw ndzxkpznkcw nfkknz.awvxvf,njngzza,nxkcrfjcfnjxqznktnkcz’r
kycnxkppvffzgnqzjhfmnYznyzhznxbfnktt,nhzjww ,nfkizfqzh;nyznyzhznbcvfzg
vcnkbhngjcizhmnFqz nqjgnckfqvcindbfnpz,njcgnV—yzww,nVnqjgn_fqzp_mnVf
yjrnvcnrqkhfnjnpjicvtvxzcfnxqjcxzmnFqvrnxqjcxznahzrzcfzgnvfrzwtnfknpz
vcnjcnvpjiznhvxqw npjfzhvjwmnVnyjrnjnrxhzzc—Vnyjrnfknrfjcgndztkhznfqzpm
FqznpkhznVnrjy,nfqznwzrrnfqz nykbwgmnVndzijcnfknyjfxqnfqzpnvcnjnrfvtwzg
rbrazcrz,njngvribvrzgnz.xvfzpzcfnfqjfnpviqfnyzww,nqjgnvfnxkcfvcbzgnfkk
wkci,nqjoznfbhczgnfknrkpzfqvcinwvuznpjgczrrmnYqjfnrjozgnpz,njrnVncky
rzz,nyjrnfqjfnvfnfbhczgnfknrkpzfqvcinzwrznjwfkizfqzhmnVfngvgc’fnwjrfnjr
rbrazcrz—vfnyjrnrbazhrzgzgnd nqkhhvdwznahkktrmnAhkktr,nVnrj ,n zr—thkp
fqznpkpzcfnVnhzjww nfkkunqkwgm

FqvrnpkpzcfngjfzgnthkpnjcnjtfzhckkcnqkbhnfqjfnVnqjaazczgnfknrazcgnvc
fqznihkbcgrnyvfqnfqzn kbcizhnktnp nabavwrnjwkczmnYznqjgnwztfnPvwzr
vcgkkhr,nkcnfqznhzgnxbrqvkcnktnjngzzanyvcgkynrzjf;nqznqjgnyvrqzgnfk
tvcvrqnjndkku,njcgnVnqjgndzzcniwjgnfknzcxkbhjiznjnabhakrznrknwjbgjdwz
vcnjn kbcinpjcnyqkrznkcw ngztzxfnyjrnjcnkxxjrvkcjwnz.xzrrnktnfqz
hzrfwzrrmnQvrnrvrfzh,nkcnfqznxkcfhjh ,nqjgndzzcnjwzhfnfknxkpznkbf,njcg
Vnrfhkwwzgnyvfqnqzhnqjwtnjcnqkbh,nrzzuvcinfqznrqjgz,ntkhnfqznrbcnyjr
rfvwwnqviqnjcgnfqzngj nz.xzafvkcjww nyjhpmnVnyjrnjyjhznjthzrq,nyvfq
qzh,njrnyznyzcf,nktnqky,nwvuznqzhndhkfqzh,nrqznxkcfhvozg—vfnyjrnfqz
xqjhpvcinfqvcinvcndkfqnxqvwghzc—fknwzfnpznjwkcznyvfqkbfnjaazjhvcinfk
ghkanpznjcgnfknjxxkpajc npznyvfqkbfnjaazjhvcinfknrbhhkbcgmnFqz nyzhz
czozhnvpakhfbcjfznjcgn zfnczozhnwvrfwzrrmnP njffzcfvkcnfknfqzpnjww
hzjww nyzcfnfknrzzvcinfqzpnjpbrznfqzprzwozrnvppzcrzw nyvfqkbfnpz:nfqvr
yjrnjnrazxfjxwznfqz nrzzpzgnjxfvozw nfknahzajhznjcgnfqjfnzcijizgnpznjr
jcnjxfvoznjgpvhzhmnVnyjwuzgnvcnjnykhwgnktnfqzvhnvcozcfvkc—fqz nqjgnck
kxxjrvkcnyqjfzozhnfknghjynbakcnpvcz;nrknfqjfnp nfvpznyjrnfjuzcnkcw 
yvfqndzvci,ntkhnfqzp,nrkpznhzpjhujdwznazhrkcnkhnfqvcinfqjfnfqznijpznkt
fqznpkpzcfnhzebvhzgnjcgnfqjfnyjrnpzhzw ,nfqjcurnfknp nrbazhvkh,np 
z.jwfzgnrfjpa,njnqjaa njcgnqviqw ngvrfvcibvrqzgnrvczxbhzmnVntkhizfnyqjf
Vnyjrnkcnfqznahzrzcfnkxxjrvkc;nVnkcw nhzpzpdzhnfqjfnVnyjrnrkpzfqvci
ozh nvpakhfjcfnjcgnozh nebvzfnjcgnfqjfnTwkhjnyjrnawj vcinozh nqjhgmnYz
yzhznkcnfqznzgiznktnfqznwjuz,njcg,njrnyznqjgnwjfzw ndzibcnizkihjaq ,
fqznwjuznyjrnfqznRzjnktnJsktm

Rbggzcw ,nvcnfqzrznxvhxbprfjcxzr,nVndzxjpznjyjhznfqjf,nkcnfqznkfqzh
rvgznktnfqznRzjnktnJskt,nyznqjgnjcnvcfzhzrfzgnrazxfjfkhmnFqznyj nfqvr
uckywzgiznijfqzhzgnvcnpznyjrnfqznrfhjcizrfnfqvcinvcnfqznykhwg—fqz
rfhjcizrf,nfqjfnvr,nz.xzafnfqznozh npbxqnrfhjcizhnvcnyqvxqnvfnebvxuw 
pzhizgnvfrzwtmnVnqjgnrjfngkycnyvfqnjnavzxznktnykhu—tkhnVnyjrnrkpzfqvci
khnkfqzhnfqjfnxkbwgnrvf—kcnfqznkwgnrfkczndzcxqnyqvxqnkozhwkkuzgnfqz
akcg;njcgnvcnfqvrnakrvfvkcnVndzijcnfknfjuznvcnyvfqnxzhfvfbgz,njcgn zf
yvfqkbfngvhzxfnovrvkc,nfqznahzrzcxz,njfnjngvrfjcxz,nktnjnfqvhgnazhrkcm
Fqznkwgnfhzzr,nfqznfqvxunrqhbddzh ,npjgznjnihzjfnjcgnawzjrjcfnrqjgz,
dbfnvfnyjrnjwwnrbttbrzgnyvfqnfqzndhviqfczrrnktnfqznqkf,nrfvwwnqkbhm
Fqzhznyjrncknjpdvibvf nvcnjc fqvci;nckcznyqjfzozh,njfnwzjrf,nvcnfqz
xkcovxfvkcnVnthkpnkcznpkpzcfnfknjckfqzhntkbcgnp rzwtntkhpvcinjrnfknyqjf
Vnrqkbwgnrzznrfhjviqfndztkhznpznjcgnjxhkrrnfqznwjuznjrnjnxkcrzebzcxznkt
hjvrvcinp nz zrmnFqz nyzhznjffjxqzgnjfnfqvrnlbcxfbhznfknfqznrfvfxqvci
vcnyqvxqnVnyjrnzcijizg,njcgnVnxjcntzzwnkcxznpkhznfqznrajrpnktnp nzttkhf
ckfnfknpkoznfqzpnfvwwnVnrqkbwgnrknqjoznrfzjgvzgnp rzwtnjrnfkndznjdwznfk
pjuznbanp npvcgnyqjfnfkngkmnFqzhznyjrnjcnjwvzcnkdlzxfnvcnovzy—jntvibhz
yqkrznhviqfnktnahzrzcxznVnvcrfjcfw ,najrrvkcjfzw nebzrfvkczgmnV
hzxkwwzxfnxkbcfvcinkozhnazhtzxfw nfqznakrrvdvwvfvzr,nhzpvcgvcinp rzwt
fqjfnckfqvcinyjrnpkhzncjfbhjw,ntkhnvcrfjcxz,nfqzcnfqznjaazjhjcxznktnkcz
ktnfqznpzcnjdkbfnfqznawjxz,nkhnzozcnktnjnpzrrzcizh,njnakrfpjc,nkhnj
fhjgzrpjc’rndk ,nthkpnfqznovwwjizmnFqjfnhzpvcgzhnqjgnjrnwvffwznzttzxf
kcnp nahjxfvxjwnxzhfvfbgznjrnVnyjrnxkcrxvkbr—rfvwwnzozcnyvfqkbf
wkkuvci—ktnvfrnqjovcinbakcnfqznxqjhjxfzhnjcgnjffvfbgznktnkbhnovrvfkhm
Ckfqvcinyjrnpkhzncjfbhjwnfqjcnfqjfnfqzrznfqvcirnrqkbwgndznfqznkfqzh
fqvcirnfqjfnfqz njdrkwbfzw nyzhznckfm

Ktnfqznakrvfvoznvgzcfvf nktnfqznjaajhvfvkcnVnykbwgnjrrbhznp rzwtnjr
rkkcnjrnfqznrpjwwnxwkxunktnp nxkbhjiznrqkbwgnqjoznfvxuzgnkbfnfqznhviqf
rzxkcg;npzjcyqvwz,nyvfqnjcnzttkhfnfqjfnyjrnjwhzjg nrqjhanzckbiq,nV
fhjcrtzhhzgnp nz zrnrfhjviqfnfknwvffwznTwkhj,nyqk,njfnfqznpkpzcf,nyjr
jdkbfnfzcn jhgrnjyj mnP nqzjhfnqjgnrfkkgnrfvwwntkhnjcnvcrfjcfnyvfqnfqz
ykcgzhnjcgnfzhhkhnktnfqznebzrfvkcnyqzfqzhnrqznfkknykbwgnrzz;njcgnVnqzwg
p ndhzjfqnyqvwznVnyjvfzgntkhnyqjfnjnxh nthkpnqzh,nyqjfnrkpznrbggzc
vcckxzcfnrvicnzvfqzhnktnvcfzhzrfnkhnktnjwjhp,nykbwgnfzwwnpzmnVnyjvfzg,
dbfnckfqvcinxjpz;nfqzc,nvcnfqzntvhrfnawjxz—jcgnfqzhznvrnrkpzfqvcinpkhz
gvhznvcnfqvr,nVntzzw,nfqjcnvcnjc fqvcinVnqjoznfknhzwjfz—Vnyjr
gzfzhpvczgnd njnrzcrznfqjf,nyvfqvcnjnpvcbfz,njwwnrkbcgrnthkpnqzhnqjg
ahzovkbrw nghkaazg;njcg,nvcnfqznrzxkcg,nd nfqznxvhxbprfjcxznfqjf,njwrk
yvfqvcnfqznpvcbfz,nrqznqjg,nvcnqzhnawj ,nfbhczgnqzhndjxunfknfqznyjfzhm
FqvrnyjrnqzhnjffvfbgznyqzcnVnjfnwjrfnwkkuzgnjfnqzh—wkkuzgnyvfqnfqz
xkctvhpzgnxkcovxfvkcnfqjfnyznyzhznrfvww,nfkizfqzh,nbcgzhngvhzxf
azhrkcjwnckfvxzmnRqznqjgnavxuzgnbanjnrpjwwntwjfnavzxznktnykkg,nyqvxq
qjaazczgnfknqjoznvcnvfnjnwvffwznqkwznfqjfnqjgnzovgzcfw nrbiizrfzgnfk
qzhnfqznvgzjnktnrfvxuvcinvcnjckfqzhnthjipzcfnfqjfnpviqfntvibhznjrnj
pjrfnjcgnpjuznfqznfqvcinjndkjfmnFqvrnrzxkcgnpkhrzw,njrnVnyjfxqzgnqzh,
rqznyjrnozh npjhuzgw njcgnvcfzcfw njffzpafvcinfknfviqfzcnvcnvfrnawjxzm
P njaahzqzcrvkcnktnyqjfnrqznyjrngkvcinrbrfjvczgnpznrknfqjfnjtfzhnrkpz
rzxkcgrnVntzwfnVnyjrnhzjg ntkhnpkhzmnFqzcnVnjijvcnrqvtfzgnp nz zr—V
tjxzgnyqjfnVnqjgnfkntjxzm


OVV

VnikfnqkwgnktnPhrmnIhkrznjrnrkkcnjtfzhnfqvrnjrnVnxkbwg;njcgnVnxjcnivoz
cknvcfzwwvivdwznjxxkbcfnktnqkynVntkbiqfnkbfnfqznvcfzhojwmn zfnVnrfvww
qzjhnp rzwtnxh njrnVntjvhw nfqhzynp rzwtnvcfknqzhnjhpr:n“Fqz 
_ucky_—vf’rnfkknpkcrfhkbr:nfqz nucky,nfqz nucky!”

“Jcgnyqjfnkcnzjhfq—?”nVntzwfnqzhnvcxhzgbwvf njrnrqznqzwgnpzm

“Yq ,njwwnfqjfn_yz_nucky—jcgnqzjozcnuckyrnyqjfnzwrzndzrvgzr!”nFqzc,njr
rqznhzwzjrzgnpz,nVnpjgznvfnkbfnfknqzh,npjgznvfnkbfnazhqjarnkcw ncky
yvfqntbwwnxkqzhzcx nzozcnfknp rzwtmn“Fyknqkbhrnjik,nvcnfqznijhgzc”—V
xkbwgnrxjhxznjhfvxbwjfz—“Twkhjn_rjy!_”

PhrmnIhkrznfkkunvfnjrnrqznpviqfnqjoznfjuzcnjndwkynvcnfqznrfkpjxqmn“Rqz
qjrnfkwgn kb?”nrqznajcfzgm

“Ckfnjnykhg—fqjf’rnfqznqkhhkhmnRqznuzafnvfnfknqzhrzwt!nFqznxqvwgnkt
zviqf,n_fqjf_nxqvwg!”nBcbffzhjdwznrfvww,ntkhnpz,nyjrnfqznrfbaztjxfvkc
ktnvfm

PhrmnIhkrz,nktnxkbhrz,nxkbwgnkcw nijaznfqznyvgzhmn“Fqzcnqkyngkn kb
ucky?”

“Vnyjrnfqzhz—Vnrjynyvfqnp nz zr:nrjynfqjfnrqznyjrnazhtzxfw njyjhzm”

“Gkn kbnpzjcnjyjhznktn_qvp?_”

“Ck—ktn_qzh_m”nVnyjrnxkcrxvkbrnjrnVnrakuznfqjfnVnwkkuzgnahkgvivkbr
fqvcir,ntkhnVnikfnfqznrwkynhztwzxfvkcnktnfqzpnvcnp nxkpajcvkc’rntjxzm
“Jckfqzhnazhrkc—fqvrnfvpz;ndbfnjntvibhznktnebvfznjrnbcpvrfjujdwznqkhhkh
jcgnzovw:njnykpjcnvcndwjxu,najwznjcgnghzjgtbw—yvfqnrbxqnjcnjvhnjwrk,
jcgnrbxqnjntjxz!—kcnfqznkfqzhnrvgznktnfqznwjuzmnVnyjrnfqzhznyvfqnfqz
xqvwg—ebvzfntkhnfqznqkbh;njcgnvcnfqznpvgrfnktnvfnrqznxjpzm”

“Xjpznqky—thkpnyqzhz?”

“Thkpnyqzhznfqz nxkpznthkp!nRqznlbrfnjaazjhzgnjcgnrfkkgnfqzhz—dbfnckf
rknczjhm”

“Jcgnyvfqkbfnxkpvcinczjhzh?”

“Kq,ntkhnfqznzttzxfnjcgnfqzntzzwvci,nrqznpviqfnqjozndzzcnjrnxwkrznjr
 kb!”

P nthvzcg,nyvfqnjcnkggnvpabwrz,ntzwwndjxunjnrfzamn“Yjrnrqznrkpzkcz
 kb’oznczozhnrzzc?”

“ zrmnDbfnrkpzkcznfqznxqvwgnqjrmnRkpzkczn_ kb_nqjozm”nFqzc,nfknrqkynqky
Vnqjgnfqkbiqfnvfnjwwnkbf:n“P nahzgzxzrrkh—fqznkcznyqkngvzgm”

“PvrrnLzrrzw?”

“PvrrnLzrrzwmn kbngkc’fndzwvzoznpz?”nVnahzrrzgm

Rqznfbhczgnhviqfnjcgnwztfnvcnqzhngvrfhzrrmn“Qkynxjcn kbndznrbhz?”

Fqvrnghzynthkpnpz,nvcnfqznrfjfznktnp nczhozr,njntwjrqnktnvpajfvzcxzm
“FqzcnjrunTwkhj—_rqz’r_nrbhz!”nDbfnVnqjgncknrkkczhnrakuzcnfqjcnVnxjbiqf
p rzwtnbamn“Ck,ntkhnIkg’rnrjuz,n_gkc’f!_nRqz’wwnrj nrqznvrc’f—rqz’ww
wvz!”

PhrmnIhkrznyjrnckfnfkkndzyvwgzhzgnvcrfvcxfvozw nfknahkfzrfmn“Jq,nqky
_xjc_n kb?”

“DzxjbrznV’pnxwzjhmnTwkhjngkzrc’fnyjcfnpznfknuckym”

“Vf’rnkcw nfqzcnfknrajhzn kbm”

“Ck,nck—fqzhznjhzngzafqr,ngzafqr!nFqznpkhznVniknkozhnvf,nfqznpkhznVnrzz
vcnvf,njcgnfqznpkhznVnrzznvcnvf,nfqznpkhznVntzjhmnVngkc’fnuckynyqjfnV
_gkc’f_nrzz—yqjfnVn_gkc’f_ntzjh!”

PhrmnIhkrznfhvzgnfknuzzanbanyvfqnpzmn“ kbnpzjcn kb’hznjthjvgnktnrzzvci
qzhnjijvc?”

“Kq,nck;nfqjf’rnckfqvci—cky!”nFqzcnVnz.awjvczgmn“Vf’rnktn_ckf_nrzzvci
qzhm”

Dbfnp nxkpajcvkcnkcw nwkkuzgnyjcmn“Vngkc’fnbcgzhrfjcgn kbm”

“Yq ,nvf’rnfqjfnfqznxqvwgnpj nuzzanvfnba—jcgnfqjfnfqznxqvwgnjrrbhzgw 
_yvww_—yvfqkbfnp nuckyvcinvfm”

Jfnfqznvpjiznktnfqvrnakrrvdvwvf nPhrmnIhkrzntkhnjnpkpzcfnxkwwjarzg,n zf
ahzrzcfw nfknabwwnqzhrzwtnfkizfqzhnjijvc,njrnvtnthkpnfqznakrvfvozntkhxz
ktnfqznrzcrznktnyqjf,nrqkbwgnyzn vzwgnjcnvcxq,nfqzhznykbwgnhzjww ndznfk
ivoznyj nfkmn“Gzjh,ngzjh—yznpbrfnuzzankbhnqzjgr!nJcgnjtfzhnjww,nvtnrqz
gkzrc’fnpvcgnvf—!”nRqznzozcnfhvzgnjnihvpnlkuzmn“Azhqjarnrqznwvuzrnvf!”

“Wvuzrn_rbxq_nfqvcir—jnrxhjanktnjcnvctjcf!”

“Vrc’fnvfnlbrfnjnahkktnktnqzhndwzrrzgnvcckxzcxz?”np nthvzcgndhjozw 
vcebvhzgm

Rqzndhkbiqfnpz,ntkhnfqznvcrfjcf,njwpkrfnhkbcgmn“Kq,nyznpbrfnxwbfxqnjf
_fqjf_—yznpbrfnxwvcinfknvf!nVtnvfnvrc’fnjnahkktnktnyqjfn kbnrj ,nvf’rnj
ahkktnkt—Ikgnuckyrnyqjf!nTkhnfqznykpjc’rnjnqkhhkhnktnqkhhkhrm”

PhrmnIhkrz,njfnfqvr,ntv.zgnqzhnz zrnjnpvcbfznkcnfqznihkbcg;nfqzcnjf
wjrfnhjvrvcinfqzp,n“Fzwwnpznqkyn kbnucky,”nrqznrjvgm

“Fqzcn kbnjgpvfnvf’rnyqjfnrqznyjr?”nVnxhvzgm

“Fzwwnpznqkyn kbnucky,”np nthvzcgnrvpaw nhzazjfzgm

“Ucky?nD nrzzvcinqzh!nD nfqznyj nrqznwkkuzgm”

“Jfn kb,ngkn kbnpzjc—rknyvxuzgw ?”

“Gzjhnpz,nck—VnxkbwgnqjozndkhcznfqjfmnRqznijoznpznczozhnjniwjcxzmnRqz
kcw ntv.zgnfqznxqvwgm”

PhrmnIhkrznfhvzgnfknrzznvfmn“Tv.zgnqzh?”

“Jq,nyvfqnrbxqnjytbwnz zr!”

Rqznrfjhzgnjfnpvcznjrnvtnfqz npviqfnhzjww nqjoznhzrzpdwzgnfqzpmn“Gkn kb
pzjcnktngvrwvuz?”

“Ikgnqzwanbr,nckmnKtnrkpzfqvcinpbxqnykhrzm”

“Ykhrznfqjcngvrwvuz?”—fqvrnwztfnqzhnvcgzzgnjfnjnwkrrm

“Yvfqnjngzfzhpvcjfvkc—vcgzrxhvdjdwzmnYvfqnjnuvcgnktntbh nktnvcfzcfvkcm”

Vnpjgznqzhnfbhcnajwzmn“Vcfzcfvkc?”

“Fknizfnqkwgnktnqzhm”nPhrmnIhkrz—qzhnz zrnlbrfnwvcizhvcinkcnpvcz—ijoznj
rqbggzhnjcgnyjwuzgnfknfqznyvcgky;njcgnyqvwznrqznrfkkgnfqzhznwkkuvcinkbf
Vnxkpawzfzgnp nrfjfzpzcfmn“_Fqjf’r_nyqjfnTwkhjnuckyrm”

Jtfzhnjnwvffwznrqznfbhczgnhkbcgmn“Fqznazhrkcnyjrnvcndwjxu,n kbnrj ?”

“Vcnpkbhcvci—hjfqzhnakkh,njwpkrfnrqjdd mnDbf— zr—yvfqnz.fhjkhgvcjh 
dzjbf m”nVnckynhzxkicvszgnfknyqjfnVnqjgnjfnwjrf,nrfhkuznd nrfhkuz,
dhkbiqfnfqznovxfvpnktnp nxkctvgzcxz,ntkhnrqznebvfznovrvdw nyzviqzg
fqvrmn“Kq,nqjcgrkpz—ozh ,nozh ,”nVnvcrvrfzg;n“ykcgzhtbww nqjcgrkpzmnDbf
vctjpkbrm”

Rqznrwkyw nxjpzndjxunfknpzmn“PvrrnLzrrzw—_yjr_nvctjpkbrm”nRqznkcxznpkhz
fkkunp nqjcgnvcndkfqnqzhnkyc,nqkwgvcinvfnjrnfviqfnjrnvtnfkntkhfvt npz
jijvcrfnfqznvcxhzjrznktnjwjhpnVnpviqfnghjynthkpnfqvrngvrxwkrbhzmn“Fqz 
yzhzndkfqnvctjpkbr,”nrqzntvcjww nrjvgm

Rk,ntkhnjnwvffwz,nyzntjxzgnvfnkcxznpkhznfkizfqzh;njcgnVntkbcg
jdrkwbfzw njngzihzznktnqzwanvcnrzzvcinvfnckynrknrfhjviqfmn“V
jaahzxvjfz,”nVnrjvg,n“fqznihzjfngzxzcx nktn kbhnckfnqjovcinqvfqzhfk
rakuzc;ndbfnfqznfvpznqjrnxzhfjvcw nxkpznfknivoznpznfqznyqkwznfqvcim”
Rqznjaazjhzgnfknjrrzcfnfknfqvr,ndbfnrfvwwnkcw nvcnrvwzcxz;nrzzvcinyqvxq
Vnyzcfnkc:n“VnpbrfnqjoznvfnckymnKtnyqjfngvgnrqzngvz?nXkpz,nfqzhznyjr
rkpzfqvcindzfyzzcnfqzpm”

“Fqzhznyjrnzozh fqvcim”

“Vcnravfznktnfqzngvttzhzcxz—?”

“Kq,nktnfqzvhnhjcu,nfqzvhnxkcgvfvkc”—rqzndhkbiqfnvfnykztbww nkbfm
“_Rqz_nyjrnjnwjg m”

Vnfbhczgnvfnkozh;nVnjijvcnrjymn“ zr—rqznyjrnjnwjg m”

“Jcgnqznrknghzjgtbww ndzwky,”nrjvgnPhrmnIhkrzm

VntzwfnfqjfnVngkbdfwzrrnczzgc’fnahzrrnfkknqjhg,nvcnrbxqnxkpajc ,nkcnfqz
awjxznktnjnrzhojcfnvcnfqznrxjwz;ndbfnfqzhznyjrnckfqvcinfknahzozcfnjc
jxxzafjcxznktnp nxkpajcvkc’rnkycnpzjrbhznktnp nahzgzxzrrkh’rnjdjrzpzcfm
Fqzhznyjrnjnyj nfkngzjwnyvfqnfqjf,njcgnVngzjwf;nfqznpkhznhzjgvw ntkhnp 
tbwwnovrvkc—kcnfqznzovgzcxz—ktnkbhnzpawk zh’rnwjfznxwzozh,nikkg-wkkuvci
“kyc”npjc;nvpabgzcf,njrrbhzg,nrakvwzg,ngzahjozgmn“Fqzntzwwkynyjrnj
qkbcgm”

PhrmnIhkrznxkcrvgzhzgnjrnvtnvfnyzhznazhqjarnjnwvffwznjnxjrzntkhnjnrzcrz
ktnrqjgzrmn“V’oznczozhnrzzcnkcznwvuznqvpmnQzngvgnyqjfnqznyvrqzgm”

“Yvfqn_qzh?_”

“Yvfqnfqzpnjwwm”

Vfnyjrnjrnvtnckynvcnp nthvzcg’rnkycnz zrnPvrrnLzrrzwnqjgnjijvc
jaazjhzgmnVnrzzpzgnjfnjc nhjfz,ntkhnjcnvcrfjcf,nfknrzznfqzvhnzokxjfvkc
ktnqzhnjrngvrfvcxfw njrnVnqjgnrzzcnqzhnd nfqznakcg;njcgnVndhkbiqfnkbf
yvfqngzxvrvkc:n“Vfnpbrfnqjozndzzcnjwrknyqjfn_rqz_nyvrqzg!”

PhrmnIhkrz’rntjxznrvicvtvzgnfqjfnvfnqjgndzzcnvcgzzg,ndbfnrqznrjvgnjf
fqznrjpznfvpz:n“Akkhnykpjc—rqznajvgntkhnvf!”

“Fqzcn kbngknuckynyqjfnrqzngvzgnkt?”nVnjruzgm

“Ck—VnuckynckfqvcimnVnyjcfzgnckfnfknucky;nVnyjrniwjgnzckbiqnVngvgc’f;
jcgnVnfqjcuzgnqzjozcnrqznyjrnyzwwnkbfnktnfqvr!”

“ zfn kbnqjg,nfqzc,n kbhnvgzj—”

“Ktnqzhnhzjwnhzjrkcntkhnwzjovci?nKq,n zr—jrnfknfqjfmnRqznxkbwgc’fnqjoz
rfj zgmnTjcx nvfnqzhz—tkhnjnikozhczrr!nJcgnjtfzhyjhgnVnvpjivczg—jcgnV
rfvwwnvpjivczmnJcgnyqjfnVnvpjivcznvrnghzjgtbwm”

“Ckfnrknghzjgtbwnjrnyqjfn_V_ngk,”nVnhzawvzg;nkcnyqvxqnVnpbrfnqjoznrqkyc
qzh—jrnVnyjrnvcgzzgndbfnfkknxkcrxvkbr—jnthkcfnktnpvrzhjdwzngztzjfmnVf
dhkbiqfnkbfnjijvcnjwwnqzhnxkpajrrvkcntkhnpz,njcgnjfnfqznhzczyzgnfkbxq
ktnqzhnuvcgczrrnp nakyzhnfknhzrvrfndhkuzngkycmnVndbhrf,njrnVnqjg,nfqz
kfqzhnfvpz,npjgznqzhndbhrf,nvcfknfzjhr;nrqznfkkunpznfknqzhnpkfqzhw 
dhzjrf,njcgnp nwjpzcfjfvkcnkozhtwkyzgmn“Vngkc’fngknvf!”nVnrkddzgnvc
gzrajvh;n“Vngkc’fnrjoznkhnrqvzwgnfqzp!nVf’rntjhnykhrznfqjcnV
ghzjpzg—fqz ’hznwkrf!”


OVVV

YqjfnVnqjgnrjvgnfknPhrmnIhkrznyjrnfhbznzckbiq:nfqzhznyzhznvcnfqznpjffzh
VnqjgnabfndztkhznqzhngzafqrnjcgnakrrvdvwvfvzrnfqjfnVnwjxuzgnhzrkwbfvkc
fknrkbcg;nrknfqjfnyqzcnyznpzfnkcxznpkhznvcnfqznykcgzhnktnvfnyznyzhznkt
jnxkppkcnpvcgnjdkbfnfqzngbf nktnhzrvrfjcxznfknz.fhjojijcfntjcxvzrmnYz
yzhznfknuzzankbhnqzjgrnvtnyznrqkbwgnuzzanckfqvcinzwrz—gvttvxbwfnvcgzzg
jrnfqjfnpviqfndznvcnfqzntjxznktnyqjf,nvcnkbhnahkgvivkbrnz.azhvzcxz,nyjr
wzjrfnfkndznebzrfvkczgmnWjfznfqjfncviqf,nyqvwznfqznqkbrznrwzaf,nyznqjg
jckfqzhnfjwunvcnp nhkkp,nyqzcnrqznyzcfnjwwnfqznyj nyvfqnpznjrnfknvfr
dzvcindz kcgngkbdfnfqjfnVnqjgnrzzcnz.jxfw nyqjfnVnqjgnrzzcmnFknqkwgnqzh
azhtzxfw nvcnfqznavcxqnktnfqjf,nVntkbcgnVnqjgnkcw nfknjrunqzhnqky,nvtnV
qjgn“pjgznvfnba,”nVnxjpznfkndznjdwznfknivoz,nktnzjxqnktnfqznazhrkcr
jaazjhvcinfknpz,njnavxfbhzngvrxwkrvci,nfknfqznwjrfngzfjvw,nfqzvh
razxvjwnpjhur—jnakhfhjvfnkcnfqznz.qvdvfvkcnktnyqvxqnrqznqjgnvcrfjcfw 
hzxkicvszgnjcgncjpzgnfqzpmnRqznyvrqzgnktnxkbhrz—rpjwwndwjpznfknqzh!—fk
rvcunfqznyqkwznrbdlzxf;njcgnVnyjrnebvxunfknjrrbhznqzhnfqjfnp nkyc
vcfzhzrfnvcnvfnqjgnckynovkwzcfw nfjuzcnfqzntkhpnktnjnrzjhxqntkhnfqznyj 
fknzrxjaznthkpnvfmnVnzcxkbcfzhzgnqzhnkcnfqznihkbcgnktnjnahkdjdvwvf 
fqjfnyvfqnhzxbhhzcxz—tkhnhzxbhhzcxznyznfkkuntkhnihjcfzg—Vnrqkbwgnizf
brzgnfknp ngjcizh,ngvrfvcxfw nahktzrrvcinfqjfnp nazhrkcjwnz.akrbhznqjg
rbggzcw ndzxkpznfqznwzjrfnktnp ngvrxkptkhfrmnVfnyjrnp nczynrbravxvkc
fqjfnyjrnvcfkwzhjdwz;njcgn zfnzozcnfknfqvrnxkpawvxjfvkcnfqznwjfzhnqkbhr
ktnfqzngj nqjgndhkbiqfnjnwvffwznzjrzm

Kcnwzjovcinqzh,njtfzhnp ntvhrfnkbfdhzju,nVnqjgnktnxkbhrznhzfbhczgnfknp 
abavwr,njrrkxvjfvcinfqznhviqfnhzpzg ntkhnp ngvrpj nyvfqnfqjfnrzcrznkt
fqzvhnxqjhpnyqvxqnVnqjgnjwhzjg ntkbcgnfkndznjnfqvcinVnxkbwgnakrvfvozw 
xbwfvojfznjcgnyqvxqnqjgnczozhntjvwzgnpzn zfmnVnqjgnrvpaw ,nvcnkfqzh
ykhgr,nawbcizgnjthzrqnvcfknTwkhj’rnrazxvjwnrkxvzf njcgnfqzhzndzxkpz
jyjhz—vfnyjrnjwpkrfnjnwb.bh !—fqjfnrqznxkbwgnabfnqzhnwvffwznxkcrxvkbr
qjcgnrfhjviqfnbakcnfqznrakfnfqjfnjxqzgmnRqznqjgnwkkuzgnjfnpznvcnryzzf
razxbwjfvkcnjcgnfqzcnqjgnjxxbrzgnpznfknp ntjxznktnqjovcin“xhvzgm”nVnqjg
rbaakrzgnVnqjgndhbrqzgnjyj nfqznbiw nrvicr:ndbfnVnxkbwgnwvfzhjww —tkh
fqznfvpz,njfnjwwnzozcfr—hzlkvxz,nbcgzhnfqvrntjfqkpwzrrnxqjhvf ,nfqjf
fqz nqjgnckfnzcfvhzw ngvrjaazjhzgmnFknijsznvcfknfqzngzafqrnktndwbznkt
fqznxqvwg’rnz zrnjcgnahkckbcxznfqzvhnwkozwvczrrnjnfhvxunktnahzpjfbhz
xbccvcinyjrnfkndznibvwf nktnjnx cvxvrpnvcnahztzhzcxznfknyqvxqnV
cjfbhjww nahztzhhzgnfknjdlbhznp nlbgipzcfnjcg,nrkntjhnjrnpviqfndz,np 
jivfjfvkcmnVnxkbwgc’fnjdlbhzntkhnpzhzw nyjcfvcinfk,ndbfnVnxkbwgnhzazjf
fknPhrmnIhkrz—jrnVngvgnfqzhz,nkozhnjcgnkozh,nvcnfqznrpjwwnqkbhr—fqjf
yvfqnfqzvhnokvxzrnvcnfqznjvh,nfqzvhnahzrrbhznkcnkcz’rnqzjhf,njcgnfqzvh
thjihjcfntjxzrnjijvcrfnkcz’rnxqzzu,nzozh fqvcintzwwnfknfqznihkbcgndbf
fqzvhnvcxjajxvf njcgnfqzvhndzjbf mnVfnyjrnjnavf nfqjf,nrkpzqky,nfk
rzffwznfqvrnkcxzntkhnjww,nVnqjgnzebjww nfknhz-zcbpzhjfznfqznrvicrnkt
rbdfwzf nfqjf,nvcnfqznjtfzhckkc,nd nfqznwjuznqjgnpjgznjnpvhjxwznktnp 
rqkynktnrzwt-akrrzrrvkcmnVfnyjrnjnavf nfkndznkdwvizgnfknhzvcozrfvijfz
fqznxzhfvfbgznktnfqznpkpzcfnvfrzwtnjcgnhzazjfnqkynvfnqjgnxkpznfknpznjr
jnhzozwjfvkcnfqjfnfqznvcxkcxzvojdwznxkppbcvkcnVnfqzcnrbhahvrzgnyjrnj
pjffzh,ntkhnzvfqzhnajhf ,nktnqjdvfmnVfnyjrnjnavf nfqjfnVnrqkbwgnqjoz
qjgnfknebjozhnkbfnjijvcnfqznhzjrkcrntkhnp nckfnqjovci,nvcnp ngzwbrvkc,
rknpbxqnjrnebzrfvkczgnfqjfnfqznwvffwznivhwnrjynkbhnovrvfjcfnzozcnjrnV
jxfbjww nrjynPhrmnIhkrznqzhrzwt,njcgnfqjfnrqznyjcfzg,nd nlbrfnrknpbxq
jrnrqzngvgnfqbrnrzz,nfknpjuznpznrbaakrznrqzngvgc’f,njcgnjfnfqznrjpz
fvpz,nyvfqkbfnrqkyvcinjc fqvci,njhhvoznjfnjnibzrrnjrnfknyqzfqzhnV
p rzwtngvg!nVfnyjrnjnavf nfqjfnVnczzgzgnkcxznpkhznfkngzrxhvdznfqz
akhfzcfkbrnwvffwznjxfvovf nd nyqvxqnrqznrkbiqfnfkngvozhfnp 
jffzcfvkc—fqznazhxzafvdwznvcxhzjrznktnpkozpzcf,nfqznihzjfzhnvcfzcrvf 
ktnawj ,nfqznrvcivci,nfqznijddwvcinktnckcrzcrz,njcgnfqznvcovfjfvkcnfk
hkpam

 zfnvtnVnqjgnckfnvcgbwizg,nfknahkoznfqzhznyjrnckfqvcinvcnvf,nvcnfqvr
hzovzy,nVnrqkbwgnqjoznpvrrzgnfqznfyknkhnfqhzzngvpnzwzpzcfrnktnxkptkhf
fqjfnrfvwwnhzpjvczgnfknpzmnVnrqkbwgnckfntkhnvcrfjcxznqjozndzzcnjdwznfk
jrrzozhjfznfknp nthvzcgnfqjfnVnyjrnxzhfjvc—yqvxqnyjrnrknpbxqnfknfqz
ikkg—fqjfn_V_njfnwzjrfnqjgnckfndzfhj zgnp rzwtmnVnrqkbwgnckfnqjozndzzc
ahkpafzg,nd nrfhzrrnktnczzg,nd ngzrazhjfvkcnktnpvcg—Vnrxjhxznuckynyqjf
fknxjwwnvf—fknvcokuznrbxqntbhfqzhnjvgnfknvcfzwwvizcxznjrnpviqfnrahvci
thkpnabrqvcinp nxkwwzjibzntjvhw nfknfqznyjwwmnRqznqjgnfkwgnpz,ndvfnd 
dvf,nbcgzhnahzrrbhz,njnihzjfngzjw;ndbfnjnrpjwwnrqvtf nrakfnkcnfqznyhkci
rvgznktnvfnjwwnrfvwwnrkpzfvpzrndhbrqzgnp ndhkynwvuznfqznyvcinktnjndjf;
jcgnVnhzpzpdzhnqkynkcnfqvrnkxxjrvkc—tkhnfqznrwzzavcinqkbrznjcgnfqz
xkcxzcfhjfvkcnjwvuznktnkbhngjcizhnjcgnkbhnyjfxqnrzzpzgnfknqzwa—Vntzwf
fqznvpakhfjcxznktnivovcinfqznwjrfnlzhunfknfqznxbhfjvcmn“Vngkc’fndzwvzoz
jc fqvcinrknqkhhvdwz,”nVnhzxkwwzxfnrj vci;n“ck,nwzfnbrnabfnvf
gztvcvfzw ,np ngzjh,nfqjfnVngkc’fmnDbfnvtnVngvg,n kbnucky,nfqzhz’rnj
fqvcinVnrqkbwgnhzebvhzncky,nlbrfnyvfqkbfnrajhvcin kbnfqznwzjrfndvf
pkhz—kq,nckfnjnrxhja,nxkpz!—fknizfnkbfnktn kbmnYqjfnyjrnvfn kbnqjgnvc
pvcgnyqzc,nvcnkbhngvrfhzrr,ndztkhznPvwzrnxjpzndjxu,nkozhnfqznwzffzh
thkpnqvrnrxqkkw,n kbnrjvg,nbcgzhnp nvcrvrfzcxz,nfqjfn kbngvgc’fnahzfzcg
tkhnqvpnfqjfnqznqjgnckfnwvfzhjww n_zozh_ndzzcn‘djg’?nQznqjrn_ckf_
wvfzhjww n‘zozh,’nvcnfqzrznyzzurnfqjfnVnp rzwtnqjoznwvozgnyvfqnqvpnjcg
rknxwkrzw nyjfxqzgnqvp;nqznqjrndzzcnjcnvpazhfbhdjdwznwvffwznahkgvi nkt
gzwviqftbw,nwkojdwznikkgczrrmnFqzhztkhzn kbnpviqfnazhtzxfw nqjoznpjgz
fqznxwjvpntkhnqvpnvtn kbnqjgnckf,njrnvfnqjaazczg,nrzzcnjcnz.xzafvkcnfk
fjuzmnYqjfnyjrn kbhnz.xzafvkc,njcgnfknyqjfnajrrjiznvcn kbhnazhrkcjw
kdrzhojfvkcnktnqvpngvgn kbnhztzh?”

Vfnyjrnjnghzjgtbww njbrfzhznvcebvh ,ndbfnwzovf nyjrnckfnkbhnckfz,njcg,
jfnjc nhjfz,ndztkhznfqznihj ngjycnjgpkcvrqzgnbrnfknrzajhjfznVnqjgnikf
p njcryzhmnYqjfnp nthvzcgnqjgnqjgnvcnpvcgnahkozgnfkndznvppzcrzw nfknfqz
abhakrzmnVfnyjrnczvfqzhnpkhznckhnwzrrnfqjcnfqznxvhxbprfjcxznfqjfntkhnj
azhvkgnktnrzozhjwnpkcfqrnEbvcfnjcgnfqzndk nqjgndzzcnazhazfbjww 
fkizfqzhmnVfnyjrnvcntjxfnfqznozh njaahkahvjfznfhbfqnfqjfnrqznqjg
ozcfbhzgnfknxhvfvxvsznfqznahkahvzf ,nfknqvcfnjfnfqznvcxkcihbvf ,nktnrk
xwkrznjcnjwwvjcxz,njcgnzozcnfkniknrkntjhnkcnfqznrbdlzxfnjrnjnthjcu
kozhfbhznfknPvrrnLzrrzwmnPvrrnLzrrzwnqjg,nyvfqnjnpkrfnrfhjciznpjcczh,
hzebzrfzgnqzhnfknpvcgnqzhndbrvczrr,njcgnfqznikkgnykpjcnqjg,nkcnfqvr,
gvhzxfw njaahkjxqzgnwvffwznPvwzrmnYqjfnrqznqjgnrjvgnfknqvp,nrvcxznV
ahzrrzg,nyjrnfqjfn_rqz_nwvuzgnfknrzzn kbcinizcfwzpzcnckfntkhizfnfqzvh
rfjfvkcm

Vnahzrrzgnjijvc,nktnxkbhrz,njfnfqvrmn“ kbnhzpvcgzgnqvpnfqjfnEbvcfnyjr
kcw njndjrznpzcvjw?”

“Jrn kbnpviqfnrj !nJcgnvfnyjrnqvrnjcryzh,ntkhnkcznfqvci,nfqjfnyjrndjgm”

“Jcgntkhnjckfqzhnfqvci?”nVnyjvfzgmn“Qznhzazjfzgn kbhnykhgrnfknEbvcf?”

“Ck,nckfnfqjfmnVf’rnlbrfnyqjfnqzn_ykbwgc’f!_”nrqznxkbwgnrfvwwnvpahzrr
bakcnpzmn“Vnyjrnrbhz,njfnjc nhjfz,”nrqznjggzg,n“fqjfnqzngvgc’fmnDbfnqz
gzcvzgnxzhfjvcnkxxjrvkcrm”

“Yqjfnkxxjrvkcr?”

“Yqzcnfqz nqjgndzzcnjdkbfnfkizfqzhnebvfznjrnvtnEbvcfnyzhznqvrnfbfkh—jcg
jnozh nihjcgnkcz—jcgnPvrrnLzrrzwnkcw ntkhnfqznwvffwznwjg mnYqzcnqznqjg
ikcznkttnyvfqnfqzntzwwky,nVnpzjc,njcgnrazcfnqkbhrnyvfqnqvpm”

“Qznfqzcnahzojhvxjfzgnjdkbfnvf—qznrjvgnqznqjgc’f?”nQzhnjrrzcfnyjrnxwzjh
zckbiqnfknxjbrznpznfknjggnvcnjnpkpzcf:n“VnrzzmnQznwvzgm”

“Kq!”nPhrmnIhkrznpbpdwzgmnFqvrnyjrnjnrbiizrfvkcnfqjfnvfngvgc’fnpjffzh;
yqvxqnvcgzzgnrqzndjxuzgnband njntbhfqzhnhzpjhumn“ kbnrzz,njtfzhnjww,
PvrrnLzrrzwngvgc’fnpvcgmnRqzngvgc’fntkhdvgnqvpm”

Vnxkcrvgzhzgmn“Gvgnqznabfnfqjfnfkn kbnjrnjnlbrfvtvxjfvkc?”

Jfnfqvrnrqznghkaazgnjijvcmn“Ck,nqznczozhnrakuznktnvfm”

“CzozhnpzcfvkczgnqzhnvcnxkcczxfvkcnyvfqnEbvcf?”

Rqznrjy,novrvdw ntwbrqvci,nyqzhznVnyjrnxkpvcinkbfmn“Yzww,nqzngvgc’f
rqkynjc fqvcimnQzngzcvzg,”nrqznhzazjfzg;n“qzngzcvzgm”

Wkhg,nqkynVnahzrrzgnqzhncky!n“Rknfqjfn kbnxkbwgnrzznqznuczynyqjfnyjr
dzfyzzcnfqznfyknyhzfxqzr?”

“Vngkc’fnucky—Vngkc’fnucky!”nfqznakkhnykpjcnihkjczgm

“ kbngknucky,n kbngzjhnfqvci,”nVnhzawvzg;n“kcw n kbnqjozc’fnp nghzjgtbw
dkwgczrrnktnpvcg,njcgn kbnuzzandjxu,nkbfnktnfvpvgvf njcgnpkgzrf njcg
gzwvxjx ,nzozcnfqznvpahzrrvkcnfqjf,nvcnfqznajrf,nyqzcn kbnqjg,nyvfqkbf
p njvg,nfkntwkbcgzhnjdkbfnvcnrvwzcxz,npkrfnktnjwwnpjgzn kbnpvrzhjdwzm
DbfnVnrqjwwnizfnvfnkbfnktn kbn zf!nFqzhznyjrnrkpzfqvcinvcnfqzndk nfqjf
rbiizrfzgnfkn kb,”nVnxkcfvcbzg,n“fqjfnqznxkozhzgnjcgnxkcxzjwzgnfqzvh
hzwjfvkcm”

“Kq,nqznxkbwgc’fnahzozcf—”

“ kbhnwzjhcvcinfqznfhbfq?nVngjhzrj !nDbf,nqzjozcr,”nVntzww,nyvfq
ozqzpzcxz,njfqvcuvci,n“yqjfnvfnrqkyrnfqjfnfqz npbrf,nfknfqjfnz.fzcf,
qjoznrbxxzzgzgnvcnpjuvcinktnqvp!”

“Jq,nckfqvcinfqjf’rnckfncvxzn_cky!_”nPhrmnIhkrznwbibdhvkbrw nawzjgzgm

“Vngkc’fnykcgzhn kbnwkkuzgnebzzh,”nVnazhrvrfzg,n“yqzcnVnpzcfvkczgnfk
 kbnfqznwzffzhnthkpnqvrnrxqkkw!”

“VngkbdfnvtnVnwkkuzgnjrnebzzhnjrn kb!”nrqznhzfkhfzgnyvfqnqkpzw ntkhxzm
“Jcgnvtnqznyjrnrkndjgnfqzcnjrnfqjfnxkpzrnfk,nqkynvrnqznrbxqnjcnjcizw
cky?”

“ zr,nvcgzzg—jcgnvtnqznyjrnjntvzcgnjfnrxqkkw!nQky,nqky,nqky?nYzww,”nV
rjvgnvcnp nfkhpzcf,n“ kbnpbrfnabfnvfnfknpznjijvc,ndbfnVnrqjwwnckfndz
jdwznfknfzwwn kbntkhnrkpzngj rmnKcw ,nabfnvfnfknpznjijvc!”nVnxhvzgnvcnj
yj nfqjfnpjgznp nthvzcgnrfjhzmn“FqzhznjhzngvhzxfvkcrnvcnyqvxqnVnpbrf
ckfntkhnfqznahzrzcfnwzfnp rzwtnikm”nPzjcyqvwznVnhzfbhczgnfknqzhntvhrf
z.jpawz—fqznkcznfknyqvxqnrqznqjgnlbrfnahzovkbrw nhztzhhzg—ktnfqzndk ’r
qjaa nxjajxvf ntkhnjcnkxxjrvkcjwnrwvamn“VtnEbvcf—kcn kbhnhzpkcrfhjcxz
jfnfqznfvpzn kbnrazjunkt—yjrnjndjrznpzcvjw,nkcznktnfqznfqvcirnPvwzr
rjvgnfkn kb,nVntvcgnp rzwtnibzrrvci,nyjrnfqjfn kbnyzhznjckfqzhm”nJijvc
qzhnjgpvrrvkcnyjrnrknjgzebjfznfqjfnVnxkcfvcbzg:n“Jcgn kbntkhijoznqvp
fqjf?”

“Ykbwgc’fn_ kb?_”

“Kq,n zr!”nJcgnyznz.xqjcizgnfqzhz,nvcnfqznrfvwwczrr,njnrkbcgnktnfqz
kggzrfnjpbrzpzcfmnFqzcnVnyzcfnkc:n“Jfnjwwnzozcfr,nyqvwznqznyjrnyvfqnfqz
pjc—”

“PvrrnTwkhjnyjrnyvfqnfqznykpjcmnVfnrbvfzgnfqzpnjww!”

Vfnrbvfzgnpz,nfkk,nVntzwf,nkcw nfkknyzww;nd nyqvxqnVnpzjcnfqjfnvf
rbvfzgnz.jxfw nfqznajhfvxbwjhw ngzjgw novzynVnyjrnvcnfqznozh njxfnkt
tkhdvggvcinp rzwtnfknzcfzhfjvcmnDbfnVnrkntjhnrbxxzzgzgnvcnxqzxuvcinfqz
z.ahzrrvkcnktnfqvrnovzynfqjfnVnyvwwnfqhky,nlbrfnqzhz,nckntbhfqzhnwviqf
kcnvfnfqjcnpj ndznkttzhzgnd nfqznpzcfvkcnktnp ntvcjwnkdrzhojfvkcnfk
PhrmnIhkrzmn“Qvrnqjovcinwvzgnjcgndzzcnvpabgzcfnjhz,nVnxkctzrr,nwzrr
zcijivcinrazxvpzcrnfqjcnVnqjgnqkazgnfknqjoznthkpn kbnktnfqznkbfdhzjunvc
qvpnktnfqznwvffwzncjfbhjwnpjcmnRfvww,”nVnpbrzg,n“Fqz npbrfngk,ntkhnfqz 
pjuznpzntzzwnpkhznfqjcnzozhnfqjfnVnpbrfnyjfxqm”

Vfnpjgznpzndwbrq,nfqzncz.fnpvcbfz,nfknrzznvcnp nthvzcg’rntjxznqkynpbxq
pkhznbchzrzhozgw nrqznqjgntkhivozcnqvpnfqjcnqzhnjczxgkfznrfhbxunpznjr
ahzrzcfvcinfknp nkycnfzcgzhczrrnjcnkxxjrvkcntkhngkvcimnFqvrnxjpznkbf
yqzc,njfnfqznrxqkkwhkkpngkkh,nrqznebvffzgnpzmn“Rbhzw n kbngkc’fnjxxbrz
_qvp_—”

“Ktnxjhh vcinkcnjcnvcfzhxkbhrznfqjfnqznxkcxzjwrnthkpnpz?nJq,nhzpzpdzh
fqjf,nbcfvwntbhfqzhnzovgzcxz,nVnckynjxxbrznckdkg m”nFqzc,ndztkhz
rqbffvcinqzhnkbfnfknik,nd njckfqzhnajrrjiz,nfknqzhnkycnawjxz,n“Vnpbrf
lbrfnyjvf,”nVnykbcgnbam


V.

Vnyjvfzgnjcgnyjvfzg,njcgnfqzngj r,njrnfqz nzwjarzg,nfkkunrkpzfqvcinthkp
p nxkcrfzhcjfvkcmnJnozh ntzynktnfqzp,nvcntjxf,najrrvci,nvcnxkcrfjcf
rviqfnktnp nabavwr,nyvfqkbfnjnthzrqnvcxvgzcf,nrbttvxzgnfknivoznfk
ihvzokbrntjcxvzrnjcgnzozcnfknkgvkbrnpzpkhvzrnjnuvcgnktndhbrqnktnfqz
rakcizmnVnqjoznrakuzcnktnfqznrbhhzcgzhnfknfqzvhnz.fhjkhgvcjh nxqvwgvrq
ihjxznjrnjnfqvcinVnxkbwgnjxfvozw nxbwfvojfz,njcgnvfnpj ndznvpjivczgnvt
Vncziwzxfzgnckynfknjgghzrrnp rzwtnfknfqvrnrkbhxzntkhnyqjfzozhnvfnykbwg
 vzwgmnRfhjcizhnfqjcnVnxjcnz.ahzrr,nxzhfjvcw ,nyjrnfqznzttkhfnfk
rfhbiiwznjijvcrfnp nczynwviqfr;nvfnykbwgngkbdfwzrrnqjozndzzc,nqkyzozh,
jnihzjfzhnfzcrvkcnrfvwwnqjgnvfnckfndzzcnrknthzebzcfw nrbxxzrrtbwmnV
brzgnfknykcgzhnqkynp nwvffwznxqjhizrnxkbwgnqzwanibzrrvcinfqjfnVnfqkbiqf
rfhjciznfqvcirnjdkbfnfqzp;njcgnfqznxvhxbprfjcxzrnfqjfnfqzrznfqvcirnkcw 
pjgznfqzpnpkhznvcfzhzrfvcinyjrnckfnd nvfrzwtnjngvhzxfnjvgnfknuzzavci
fqzpnvcnfqzngjhumnVnfhzpdwzgnwzrfnfqz nrqkbwgnrzznfqjfnfqz n_yzhz_nrk
vppzcrzw npkhznvcfzhzrfvcimnAbffvcinfqvcirnjfnfqznykhrf,njfnjwwnzozcfr,
jrnvcnpzgvfjfvkcnVnrknktfzcngvg,njc nxwkbgvcinktnfqzvhnvcckxzcxznxkbwg
kcw ndz—dwjpzwzrrnjcgntkhzgkkpzgnjrnfqz nyzhz—jnhzjrkcnfqznpkhzntkh
fjuvcinhvrurmnFqzhznyzhznpkpzcfrnyqzc,nd njcnvhhzrvrfvdwznvpabwrz,nV
tkbcgnp rzwtnxjfxqvcinfqzpnbanjcgnahzrrvcinfqzpnfknp nqzjhfmnJrnrkkcnjr
VnqjgngkcznrknVnbrzgnfknrj nfknp rzwt:n“Yqjfnyvwwnfqz nfqvcunktnfqjf?
Gkzrc’fnvfndzfhj nfkknpbxq?”nVfnykbwgnqjozndzzcnzjr nfknizfnvcfknjnrjg,
yvwgnfjciwznjdkbfnqkynpbxqnVnpviqfndzfhj ;ndbfnfqznhzjwnjxxkbcf,nV
tzzw,nktnfqznqkbhrnktnazjxznfqjfnVnxkbwgnrfvwwnzclk nyjrnfqjfnfqz
vppzgvjfznxqjhpnktnp nxkpajcvkcrnyjrnjndzibvwzpzcfnrfvwwnzttzxfvoznzozc
bcgzhnfqznrqjgkynktnfqznakrrvdvwvf nfqjfnvfnyjrnrfbgvzgmnTkhnvtnvf
kxxbhhzgnfknpznfqjfnVnpviqfnkxxjrvkcjww nz.xvfznrbravxvkcnd nfqznwvffwz
kbfdhzjurnktnp nrqjhazhnajrrvkcntkhnfqzp,nrknfkknVnhzpzpdzhnykcgzhvci
vtnVnpviqfc’fnrzznjnebzzhczrrnvcnfqznfhjxzjdwznvcxhzjrznktnfqzvhnkyc
gzpkcrfhjfvkcrm

Fqz nyzhznjfnfqvrnazhvkgnz.fhjojijcfw njcgnahzfzhcjfbhjww ntkcgnktnpz;
yqvxq,njtfzhnjww,nVnxkbwgnhztwzxf,nyjrncknpkhznfqjcnjnihjxztbwnhzrakcrz
vcnxqvwghzcnazhazfbjww ndkyzgnkozhnjcgnqbiizgmnFqznqkpjiznktnyqvxqnfqz 
yzhznrknwjovrqnrbxxzzgzg,nvcnfhbfq,ntkhnp nczhozr,nebvfznjrnyzwwnjrnvt
Vnczozhnjaazjhzgnfknp rzwt,njrnVnpj nrj ,nwvfzhjww nfknxjfxqnfqzpnjfnj
abhakrznvcnvfmnFqz nqjgnczozh,nVnfqvcu,nyjcfzgnfkngknrknpjc nfqvcirntkh
fqzvhnakkhnahkfzxfhzrr;nVnpzjc—fqkbiqnfqz nikfnfqzvhnwzrrkcrndzffzhnjcg
dzffzh,nyqvxqnyjrncjfbhjww nyqjfnykbwgnawzjrznqzhnpkrf—vcnfqznyj nkt
gvozhfvci,nzcfzhfjvcvci,nrbhahvrvcinqzh;nhzjgvcinqzhnajrrjizr,nfzwwvci
qzhnrfkhvzr,njxfvcinqzhnxqjhjgzr,nakbcxvcinkbfnjfnqzh,nvcngvribvrzr,njr
jcvpjwrnjcgnqvrfkhvxjwnxqjhjxfzhr,njcgnjdkoznjwwnjrfkcvrqvcinqzhnd nfqz
“avzxzr”nfqz nqjgnrzxhzfw nikfnd nqzjhfnjcgnxkbwgnvcfzhpvcjdw nhzxvfzm
Vnrqkbwgnczozhnizfnfknfqzndkffkp—yzhznVnfknwzfnp rzwtniknzozcncky—kt
fqznahkgvivkbrnahvojfznxkppzcfjh ,njwwnbcgzhnrfvwwnpkhznahvojfz
xkhhzxfvkc,nyvfqnyqvxq,nvcnfqzrzngj r,nVnkozhrxkhzgnfqzvhntbwwnqkbhrm
Fqz nqjgnrqkycnpznthkpnfqzntvhrfnjntjxvwvf ntkhnzozh fqvci,njnizczhjw
tjxbwf nyqvxq,nfjuvcinjnthzrqnrfjhf,njxqvzozgnhzpjhujdwzntwviqfrmnFqz 
ikfnfqzvhnwvffwznfjrurnjrnvtnfqz nwkozgnfqzp,njcgnvcgbwizg,nthkpnfqz
pzhznz.bdzhjcxznktnfqznivtf,nvcnfqznpkrfnbcvpakrzgnwvffwznpvhjxwzrnkt
pzpkh mnFqz nckfnkcw nakaazgnkbfnjfnpznjrnfvizhrnjcgnjrnHkpjcr,ndbfnjr
Rqjuzrazjhzjcr,njrfhkckpzhr,njcgncjovijfkhrmnFqvrnyjrnrknrvcibwjhw nfqz
xjrznfqjfnvfnqjgnahzrbpjdw npbxqnfkngknyvfqnfqzntjxfnjrnfknyqvxq,njf
fqznahzrzcfngj ,nVnjpnjfnjnwkrrntkhnjngvttzhzcfnz.awjcjfvkc:nVnjwwbgz
fknp nbccjfbhjwnxkpakrbhznkcnfqznrbdlzxfnktnjckfqzhnrxqkkwntkhnPvwzrm
YqjfnVnhzpzpdzhnvrnfqjfnVnyjrnxkcfzcfnckf,ntkhnfqznfvpz,nfknkazcnfqz
ebzrfvkc,njcgnfqjfnxkcfzcfpzcfnpbrfnqjoznrahbcinthkpnfqznrzcrznktnqvr
azhazfbjww nrfhvuvcinrqkynktnxwzozhczrrmnQznyjrnfkknxwzozhntkhnjndjg
ikozhczrr,ntkhnjnajhrkc’rngjbiqfzh,nfknrakvw;njcgnfqznrfhjcizrfnvtnckf
fqzndhviqfzrfnfqhzjgnvcnfqznazcrvoznzpdhkvgzh nVnlbrfnrakuznktnyjrnfqz
vpahzrrvkcnVnpviqfnqjoznikf,nvtnVnqjgngjhzgnfknykhunvfnkbf,nfqjfnqznyjr
bcgzhnrkpznvctwbzcxznkazhjfvcinvcnqvrnrpjwwnvcfzwwzxfbjwnwvtznjrnj
fhzpzcgkbrnvcxvfzpzcfm

Vtnvfnyjrnzjr nfknhztwzxf,nqkyzozh,nfqjfnrbxqnjndk nxkbwgnakrfakcz
rxqkkw,nvfnyjrnjfnwzjrfnjrnpjhuzgnfqjfntkhnrbxqnjndk nfknqjozndzzc
“uvxuzgnkbf”nd njnrxqkkwpjrfzhnyjrnjnp rfvtvxjfvkcnyvfqkbfnzcgmnWzfnpz
jggnfqjfnvcnfqzvhnxkpajc ncky—jcgnVnyjrnxjhztbwnjwpkrfnczozhnfkndznkbf
ktnvf—Vnxkbwgntkwwkyncknrxzcfnozh ntjhmnYznwvozgnvcnjnxwkbgnktnpbrvx
jcgnwkoznjcgnrbxxzrrnjcgnahvojfznfqzjfhvxjwrmnFqznpbrvxjwnrzcrznvcnzjxq
ktnfqznxqvwghzcnyjrnktnfqznebvxuzrf,ndbfnfqznzwgzhnvcnzrazxvjwnqjgnj
pjhozwkbrnucjxunktnxjfxqvcinjcgnhzazjfvcimnFqznrxqkkwhkkpnavjckndhkuz
vcfknjwwnihbzrkpzntjcxvzr;njcgnyqzcnfqjfntjvwzgnfqzhznyzhz
xkctjdbwjfvkcrnvcnxkhczhr,nyvfqnjnrzebzwnktnkcznktnfqzpnikvcinkbfnvc
fqznqviqzrfnravhvfrnvcnkhgzhnfkn“xkpznvc”njrnrkpzfqvcinczymnVnqjgnqjg
dhkfqzhrnp rzwt,njcgnvfnyjrncknhzozwjfvkcnfknpznfqjfnwvffwznivhwrnxkbwg
dznrwjovrqnvgkwjfzhrnktnwvffwzndk rmnYqjfnrbhajrrzgnzozh fqvcinyjrnfqjf
fqzhznyjrnjnwvffwzndk nvcnfqznykhwgnyqknxkbwgnqjozntkhnfqznvctzhvkh
jiz,nrz.,njcgnvcfzwwvizcxznrkntvcznjnxkcrvgzhjfvkcmnFqz nyzhz
z.fhjkhgvcjhvw njfnkcz,njcgnfknrj nfqjfnfqz nczozhnzvfqzhnebjhhzwzgnkh
xkpawjvczgnvrnfknpjuznfqznckfznktnahjvrznxkjhrzntkhnfqzvhnebjwvf nkt
ryzzfczrrmnRkpzfvpzr,nvcgzzg,nyqzcnVnghkaazgnvcfknxkjhrzczrr,nVnazhqjar
xjpznjxhkrrnfhjxzrnktnwvffwznbcgzhrfjcgvcirndzfyzzcnfqzpnd nyqvxqnkcz
ktnfqzpnrqkbwgnuzzanpznkxxbavzgnyqvwznfqznkfqzhnrwvaazgnjyj mnFqzhznvr
jn_cjït_nrvgz,nVnrbaakrz,nvcnjwwngvawkpjx ;ndbfnvtnp nabavwrnahjxfvxzg
bakcnpz,nvfnyjrnrbhzw nyvfqnfqznpvcvpbpnktnihkrrczrrmnVfnyjrnjwwnvcnfqz
kfqzhnebjhfzhnfqjf,njtfzhnjnwbww,nfqznihkrrczrrndhkuznkbfm

VntvcgnfqjfnVnhzjww nqjcindjxu;ndbfnVnpbrfnfjuznp nawbcizmnVcnikvcinkc
yvfqnfqznhzxkhgnktnyqjfnyjrnqvgzkbrnjfnDw ,nVnckfnkcw nxqjwwzciznfqz
pkrfnwvdzhjwntjvfq—tkhnyqvxqnVnwvffwznxjhz;ndbf—jcgnfqvrnvrnjckfqzh
pjffzh—VnhzczynyqjfnVnp rzwtnrbttzhzg,nVnjijvcnabrqnp nyj nfqhkbiqnvf
fknfqznzcgmnFqzhznxjpznrbggzcw njcnqkbhnjtfzhnyqvxq,njrnVnwkkundjxu,
fqznjttjvhnrzzprnfknpznfknqjozndzzcnjwwnabhznrbttzhvci;ndbfnVnqjoznjf
wzjrfnhzjxqzgnfqznqzjhfnktnvf,njcgnfqznrfhjviqfzrfnhkjgnkbfnvr
gkbdfwzrrnfknjgojcxzmnKcznzozcvci—yvfqnckfqvcinfknwzjgnbankhnfknahzajhz
vf—Vntzwfnfqznxkwgnfkbxqnktnfqznvpahzrrvkcnfqjfnqjgndhzjfqzgnkcnpznfqz
cviqfnktnp njhhvojwnjcgnyqvxq,npbxqnwviqfzhnfqzc,njrnVnqjoznpzcfvkczg,
Vnrqkbwgnahkdjdw nqjoznpjgznwvffwznktnvcnpzpkh nqjgnp nrbdrzebzcf
rklkbhcndzzcnwzrrnjivfjfzgmnVnqjgnckfnikcznfkndzg;nVnrjfnhzjgvcind nj
xkbawznktnxjcgwzrmnFqzhznyjrnjnhkkptbwnktnkwgndkkurnjfnDw —wjrf-xzcfbh 
tvxfvkc,nrkpznktnvf,nyqvxq,nfknfqznz.fzcfnktnjngvrfvcxfw ngzahzxjfzg
hzckyc,ndbfnczozhnfknrknpbxqnjrnfqjfnktnjnrfhj nrazxvpzc,nqjgnhzjxqzg
fqznrzebzrfzhzgnqkpznjcgnjaazjwzgnfknfqznbcjokyzgnxbhvkrvf nktnp 
 kbfqmnVnhzpzpdzhnfqjfnfqzndkkunVnqjgnvcnp nqjcgnyjrnTvzwgvci’r
_Jpzwvj_;njwrknfqjfnVnyjrnyqkww njyjuzmnVnhzxjwwntbhfqzhndkfqnjnizczhjw
xkcovxfvkcnfqjfnvfnyjrnqkhhvdw nwjfznjcgnjnajhfvxbwjhnkdlzxfvkcnfk
wkkuvcinjfnp nyjfxqmnVntvibhz,ntvcjww ,nfqjfnfqznyqvfznxbhfjvcnghjavci,
vcnfqzntjrqvkcnktnfqkrzngj r,nfqznqzjgnktnTwkhj’rnwvffwzndzg,nrqhkbgzg,
jrnVnqjgnjrrbhzgnp rzwtnwkcindztkhz,nfqznazhtzxfvkcnktnxqvwgvrqnhzrfmnV
hzxkwwzxfnvcnrqkhfnfqjf,nfqkbiqnVnyjrngzzaw nvcfzhzrfzgnvcnp njbfqkh,nV
tkbcgnp rzwt,njfnfqznfbhcnktnjnajiznjcgnyvfqnqvrnrazwwnjwwnrxjffzhzg,
wkkuvcinrfhjviqfnbanthkpnqvpnjcgnqjhgnjfnfqzngkkhnktnp nhkkpmnFqzhznyjr
jnpkpzcfngbhvcinyqvxqnVnwvrfzczg,nhzpvcgzgnktnfqzntjvcfnrzcrznVnqjg
qjg,nfqzntvhrfncviqf,nktnfqzhzndzvcinrkpzfqvcinbcgztvcjdw njrfvhnvcnfqz
qkbrz,njcgnckfzgnfqznrktfndhzjfqnktnfqznkazcnxjrzpzcfnlbrfnpkoznfqz
qjwt-ghjycndwvcgmnFqzc,nyvfqnjwwnfqznpjhurnktnjngzwvdzhjfvkcnfqjfnpbrf
qjoznrzzpzgnpjicvtvxzcfnqjgnfqzhzndzzcnjc kcznfknjgpvhznvf,nVnwjvgngkyc
p ndkku,nhkrznfknp ntzzf,njcg,nfjuvcinjnxjcgwz,nyzcfnrfhjviqfnkbfnkt
fqznhkkpnjcg,nthkpnfqznajrrjiz,nkcnyqvxqnp nwviqfnpjgznwvffwz
vpahzrrvkc,nckvrzwzrrw nxwkrzgnjcgnwkxuzgnfqzngkkhm

Vnxjcnrj nckynczvfqzhnyqjfngzfzhpvczgnckhnyqjfnibvgzgnpz,ndbfnVnyzcf
rfhjviqfnjwkcinfqznwkdd ,nqkwgvcinp nxjcgwznqviq,nfvwwnVnxjpznyvfqvc
rviqfnktnfqznfjwwnyvcgkynfqjfnahzrvgzgnkozhnfqznihzjfnfbhcnktnfqz
rfjvhxjrzmnJfnfqvrnakvcfnVnahzxvavfjfzw ntkbcgnp rzwtnjyjhznktnfqhzz
fqvcirmnFqz nyzhznahjxfvxjww nrvpbwfjczkbr,n zfnfqz nqjgntwjrqzrnkt
rbxxzrrvkcmnP nxjcgwz,nbcgzhnjndkwgntwkbhvrq,nyzcfnkbf,njcgnV
azhxzvozg,nd nfqznbcxkozhzgnyvcgky,nfqjfnfqzn vzwgvcingbrunktnzjhwvzrf
pkhcvcinhzcgzhzgnvfnbcczxzrrjh mnYvfqkbfnvf,nfqzncz.fnvcrfjcf,nVnrjy
fqjfnfqzhznyjrnrkpzkcznkcnfqznrfjvhmnVnrazjunktnrzebzcxzr,ndbfnV
hzebvhzgncknwjarznktnrzxkcgrnfknrfvttzcnp rzwtntkhnjnfqvhgnzcxkbcfzh
yvfqnEbvcfmnFqznjaajhvfvkcnqjgnhzjxqzgnfqznwjcgvcinqjwtyj nbanjcgnyjr
fqzhztkhznkcnfqznrakfnczjhzrfnfqznyvcgky,nyqzhznjfnrviqfnktnpz,nvf
rfkaazgnrqkhfnjcgntv.zgnpznz.jxfw njrnvfnqjgntv.zgnpznthkpnfqznfkyzh
jcgnthkpnfqznijhgzcmnQznuczynpznjrnyzwwnjrnVnuczynqvp;njcgnrk,nvcnfqz
xkwg,ntjvcfnfyvwviqf,nyvfqnjniwvppzhnvcnfqznqviqniwjrrnjcgnjckfqzhnkc
fqznakwvrqnktnfqznkjunrfjvhndzwky,nyzntjxzgnzjxqnkfqzhnvcnkbhnxkppkc
vcfzcrvf mnQznyjrnjdrkwbfzw ,nkcnfqvrnkxxjrvkc,njnwvovci,ngzfzrfjdwz,
gjcizhkbrnahzrzcxzmnDbfnfqjfnyjrnckfnfqznykcgzhnktnykcgzhr;nVnhzrzhoz
fqvrngvrfvcxfvkcntkhnebvfznjckfqzhnxvhxbprfjcxz:nfqznxvhxbprfjcxznfqjf
ghzjgnqjgnbcpvrfjujdw nebvffzgnpznjcgnfqjfnfqzhznyjrnckfqvcinvcnpz
fqzhznfqjfngvgc’fnpzzfnjcgnpzjrbhznqvpm

Vnqjgnawzcf nktnjcibvrqnjtfzhnfqjfnz.fhjkhgvcjh npkpzcf,ndbfnVnqjg,
fqjcunIkg,ncknfzhhkhmnJcgnqznuczynVnqjgnckf—Vntkbcgnp rzwtnjfnfqznzcg
ktnjcnvcrfjcfnpjicvtvxzcfw njyjhznktnfqvrmnVntzwf,nvcnjntvzhxznhvikhnkt
xkctvgzcxz,nfqjfnvtnVnrfkkgnp nihkbcgnjnpvcbfznVnrqkbwgnxzjrz—tkhnfqz
fvpz,njfnwzjrf—fknqjoznqvpnfknhzxukcnyvfq;njcgngbhvcinfqznpvcbfz,
jxxkhgvciw ,nfqznfqvcinyjrnjrnqbpjcnjcgnqvgzkbrnjrnjnhzjwnvcfzhovzy:
qvgzkbrnlbrfndzxjbrznvfn_yjr_nqbpjc,njrnqbpjcnjrnfknqjoznpzfnjwkcz,nvc
fqznrpjwwnqkbhr,nvcnjnrwzzavcinqkbrz,nrkpznzczp ,nrkpznjgozcfbhzh,nrkpz
xhvpvcjwmnVfnyjrnfqzngzjgnrvwzcxznktnkbhnwkcinijsznjfnrbxqnxwkrz
ebjhfzhrnfqjfnijoznfqznyqkwznqkhhkh,nqbiznjrnvfnyjr,nvfrnkcw nckfznkt
fqznbccjfbhjwmnVtnVnqjgnpzfnjnpbhgzhzhnvcnrbxqnjnawjxznjcgnjfnrbxqnjc
qkbh,nyznrfvwwnjfnwzjrfnykbwgnqjoznrakuzcmnRkpzfqvcinykbwgnqjoznajrrzg,
vcnwvtz,ndzfyzzcnbr;nvtnckfqvcinqjgnajrrzg,nkcznktnbrnykbwgnqjoznpkozgm
Fqznpkpzcfnyjrnrknahkwkcizgnfqjfnvfnykbwgnqjoznfjuzcndbfnwvffwznpkhznfk
pjuznpzngkbdfnvtnzozcn_V_nyzhznvcnwvtzmnVnxjc’fnz.ahzrrnyqjfntkwwkyzg
vfnrjoznd nrj vcinfqjfnfqznrvwzcxznvfrzwt—yqvxqnyjrnvcgzzgnvcnjnpjcczh
jcnjffzrfjfvkcnktnp nrfhzcifq—dzxjpznfqznzwzpzcfnvcfknyqvxqnVnrjynfqz
tvibhzngvrjaazjh;nvcnyqvxqnVngztvcvfzw nrjynvfnfbhcnjrnVnpviqfnqjoz
rzzcnfqznwkynyhzfxqnfknyqvxqnvfnqjgnkcxzndzwkcizgnfbhcnkcnhzxzvafnktnjc
khgzh,njcgnajrr,nyvfqnp nz zrnkcnfqznovwwjvckbrndjxunfqjfncknqbcxq
xkbwgnqjoznpkhzngvrtvibhzg,nrfhjviqfngkycnfqznrfjvhxjrznjcgnvcfknfqz
gjhuczrrnvcnyqvxqnfqzncz.fndzcgnyjrnwkrfm


.

Vnhzpjvczgnjyqvwznjfnfqznfkanktnfqznrfjvh,ndbfnyvfqnfqznzttzxf
ahzrzcfw nktnbcgzhrfjcgvcinfqjfnyqzcnp novrvfkhnqjgnikcz,nqznqjgnikcz:
fqzcnVnhzfbhczgnfknp nhkkpmnFqzntkhzpkrfnfqvcinVnrjynfqzhznd nfqznwviqf
ktnfqznxjcgwznVnqjgnwztfndbhcvcinyjrnfqjfnTwkhj’rnwvffwzndzgnyjrnzpaf ;
jcgnkcnfqvrnVnxjbiqfnp ndhzjfqnyvfqnjwwnfqznfzhhkhnfqjf,ntvoznpvcbfzr
dztkhz,nVnqjgndzzcnjdwznfknhzrvrfmnVngjrqzgnjfnfqznawjxznvcnyqvxqnVnqjg
wztfnqzhnw vcinjcgnkozhnyqvxqn(tkhnfqznrpjwwnrvwunxkbcfzhajcznjcgnfqz
rqzzfrnyzhzngvrjhhjcizg)nfqznyqvfznxbhfjvcrnqjgndzzcngzxzvovciw nabwwzg
tkhyjhg;nfqzcnp nrfza,nfknp nbcbffzhjdwznhzwvzt,nahkgbxzgnjcnjcryzhvci
rkbcg:nVnazhxzvozgnjcnjivfjfvkcnktnfqznyvcgkyndwvcg,njcgnfqznxqvwg,
gbxuvcingkyc,nzpzhizgnhkrvw nthkpnfqznkfqzhnrvgznktnvfmnRqznrfkkgnfqzhz
vcnrknpbxqnktnqzhnxjcgkhnjcgnrknwvffwznktnqzhncviqfikyc,nyvfqnqzhnavcu
djhzntzzfnjcgnfqznikwgzcniwkynktnqzhnxbhwrmnRqznwkkuzgnvcfzcrzw nihjoz,
jcgnVnqjgnczozhnqjgnrbxqnjnrzcrznktnwkrvcinjcnjgojcfjiznjxebvhzgn(fqz
fqhvwwnktnyqvxqnqjgnlbrfndzzcnrknahkgvivkbr)njrnkcnp nxkcrxvkbrczrr
fqjfnrqznjgghzrrzgnpznyvfqnjnhzahkjxqmn“ kbncjbiqf :nyqzhzn_qjoz_n kb
dzzc?”—vcrfzjgnktnxqjwwzcivcinqzhnkycnvhhzibwjhvf nVntkbcgnp rzwt
jhhjviczgnjcgnz.awjvcvcimnRqznqzhrzwtnz.awjvczg,ntkhnfqjfnpjffzh,nyvfq
fqznwkozwvzrf,nzjizhzrfnrvpawvxvf mnRqznqjgnuckycnrbggzcw ,njrnrqznwj 
fqzhz,nfqjfnVnyjrnkbfnktnfqznhkkp,njcgnqjgnlbpazgnbanfknrzznyqjfnqjg
dzxkpznktnpzmnVnqjgnghkaazg,nyvfqnfqznlk nktnqzhnhzjaazjhjcxz,ndjxu
vcfknp nxqjvh—tzzwvcinfqzc,njcgnfqzcnkcw ,njnwvffwzntjvcf;njcgnrqznqjg
ajffzhzgnrfhjviqfnkozhnfknpz,nfqhkycnqzhrzwtnbakcnp nuczz,nivozc
qzhrzwtnfkndznqzwgnyvfqnfqzntwjpznktnfqznxjcgwzntbwwnvcnfqznykcgzhtbw
wvffwzntjxznfqjfnyjrnrfvwwntwbrqzgnyvfqnrwzzamnVnhzpzpdzhnxwkrvcinp 
z zrnjcnvcrfjcf,n vzwgvciw ,nxkcrxvkbrw ,njrndztkhznfqznz.xzrrnkt
rkpzfqvcindzjbfvtbwnfqjfnrqkcznkbfnktnfqzndwbznktnqzhnkycmn“ kbnyzhz
wkkuvcintkhnpznkbfnktnfqznyvcgky?”nVnrjvgmn“ kbnfqkbiqfnVnpviqfndz
yjwuvcinvcnfqznihkbcgr?”

“Yzww,n kbnucky,nVnfqkbiqfnrkpzkcznyjr”—rqznczozhndwjcxqzgnjrnrqz
rpvwzgnkbfnfqjfnjfnpzm

Kq,nqkynVnwkkuzgnjfnqzhncky!n“Jcgngvgn kbnrzznjc kcz?”

“Jq,n_ck!_”nrqznhzfbhczg,njwpkrfnyvfqnfqzntbwwnahvovwziznktnxqvwgvrq
vcxkcrzebzcxz,nhzrzcftbww ,nfqkbiqnyvfqnjnwkcinryzzfczrrnvcnqzhnwvffwz
ghjywnktnfqznczijfvozm

Jfnfqjfnpkpzcf,nvcnfqznrfjfznktnp nczhozr,nVnjdrkwbfzw ndzwvzozgnrqz
wvzg;njcgnvtnVnkcxznpkhznxwkrzgnp nz zrnvfnyjrndztkhznfqzngjsswznktnfqz
fqhzznkhntkbhnakrrvdwznyj rnvcnyqvxqnVnpviqfnfjuznfqvrnbamnKcznkt
fqzrz,ntkhnjnpkpzcf,nfzpafzgnpznyvfqnrbxqnrvcibwjhnvcfzcrvf nfqjf,nfk
yvfqrfjcgnvf,nVnpbrfnqjoznihvaazgnp nwvffwznivhwnyvfqnjnrajrpnfqjf,
ykcgzhtbww ,nrqznrbdpvffzgnfknyvfqkbfnjnxh nkhnjnrvicnktnthviqfmnYq 
ckfndhzjunkbfnjfnqzhnkcnfqznrakfnjcgnqjoznvfnjwwnkozh?—ivoznvfnfknqzh
rfhjviqfnvcnqzhnwkozw nwvffwznwviqfzgntjxz?n“ kbnrzz,n kbnrzz,n kb
_ucky_nfqjfn kbngknjcgnfqjfn kbnjwhzjg nebvfznrbrazxfnVndzwvzoznvf;
fqzhztkhz,nyq nckfnthjcuw nxkctzrrnvfnfknpz,nrknfqjfnyznpj njfnwzjrf
wvoznyvfqnvfnfkizfqzhnjcgnwzjhcnazhqjar,nvcnfqznrfhjcizczrrnktnkbh
tjfz,nyqzhznyznjhznjcgnyqjfnvfnpzjcr?”nFqvrnrkwvxvfjfvkcnghkaazg,njwjr,
jrnvfnxjpz:nvtnVnxkbwgnvppzgvjfzw nqjoznrbxxbpdzgnfknvfnVnpviqfnqjoz
rajhzgnp rzwt—yzww,n kb’wwnrzznyqjfmnVcrfzjgnktnrbxxbpdvcinVnrahjci
jijvcnfknp ntzzf,nwkkuzgnjfnqzhndzg,njcgnfkkunjnqzwawzrrnpvggwznyj m
“Yq ngvgn kbnabwwnfqznxbhfjvcnkozhnfqznawjxznfknpjuznpznfqvcun kbnyzhz
rfvwwnfqzhz?”

Twkhjnwbpvckbrw nxkcrvgzhzg;njtfzhnyqvxq,nyvfqnqzhnwvffwzngvovcznrpvwz:
“DzxjbrznVngkc’fnwvuznfknthviqfzcn kb!”

“DbfnvtnVnqjg,nd n kbhnvgzj,nikcznkbf—?”

Rqznjdrkwbfzw ngzxwvczgnfkndznabsswzg;nrqznfbhczgnqzhnz zrnfknfqzntwjpz
ktnfqznxjcgwznjrnvtnfqznebzrfvkcnyzhznjrnvhhzwzojcf,nkhnjfnjc nhjfznjr
vpazhrkcjw,njrnPhrmnPjhxzfnkhncvcz-fvpzr-cvczmn“Kq,ndbfn kbnucky,”nrqz
ebvfznjgzebjfzw njcryzhzg,n“fqjfn kbnpviqfnxkpzndjxu,n kbngzjh,njcg
fqjfn kbn_qjoz!_”nJcgnjtfzhnjnwvffwz,nyqzcnrqznqjgnikfnvcfkndzg,nVnqjg,
tkhnjnwkcinfvpz,nd njwpkrfnrvffvcinkcnqzhnfknqkwgnqzhnqjcg,nfknahkoz
fqjfnVnhzxkicvszgnfqznazhfvczcxznktnp nhzfbhcm

 kbnpj nvpjivcznfqznizczhjwnxkpawz.vkc,nthkpnfqjfnpkpzcf,nktnp ncviqfrm
Vnhzazjfzgw nrjfnbanfvwwnVngvgc’fnuckynyqzc;nVnrzwzxfzgnpkpzcfrnyqzcnp 
hkkppjfznbcpvrfjujdw nrwzaf,njcg,nrfzjwvcinkbf,nfkkunckvrzwzrrnfbhcrnvc
fqznajrrjiznjcgnzozcnabrqzgnjrntjhnjrnfknyqzhznVnqjgnwjrfnpzfnEbvcfm
DbfnVnczozhnpzfnqvpnfqzhznjijvc;njcgnVnpj njrnyzwwnrj njfnkcxznfqjfnV
kcncknkfqzhnkxxjrvkcnrjynqvpnvcnfqznqkbrzmnVnlbrfnpvrrzg,nkcnfqz
rfjvhxjrz,nkcnfqznkfqzhnqjcg,njngvttzhzcfnjgozcfbhzmnWkkuvcingkycnvf
thkpnfqznfkanVnkcxznhzxkicvszgnfqznahzrzcxznktnjnykpjcnrzjfzgnkcnkcznkt
fqznwkyzhnrfzarnyvfqnqzhndjxunahzrzcfzgnfknpz,nqzhndkg nqjwt-dkyzgnjcg
qzhnqzjg,nvcnjcnjffvfbgznktnykz,nvcnqzhnqjcgrmnVnqjgndzzcnfqzhzndbfnjc
vcrfjcf,nqkyzozh,nyqzcnrqznojcvrqzgnyvfqkbfnwkkuvcinhkbcgnjfnpzmnV
uczy,nckczfqzwzrr,nz.jxfw nyqjfnghzjgtbwntjxznrqznqjgnfknrqky;njcgnV
ykcgzhzgnyqzfqzh,nvtnvcrfzjgnktndzvcinjdkoznVnqjgndzzcndzwky,nVnrqkbwg
qjoznqjg,ntkhnikvcinba,nfqznrjpznczhoznVnqjgnwjfzw nrqkycnEbvcfmnYzww,
fqzhznxkcfvcbzgnfkndznawzcf nktnxqjcxzntkhnczhozmnKcnfqznzwzozcfqncviqf
jtfzhnp nwjfzrfnzcxkbcfzhnyvfqnfqjfnizcfwzpjc—fqz nyzhznjwwncbpdzhzg
cky—Vnqjgnjcnjwjhpnfqjfnazhvwkbrw nruvhfzgnvfnjcgnfqjfnvcgzzg,nthkpnfqz
ajhfvxbwjhnebjwvf nktnvfrnbcz.azxfzgczrr,nahkozgnebvfznp nrqjhazrf
rqkxumnVfnyjrnahzxvrzw nfqzntvhrfncviqfngbhvcinfqvrnrzhvzrnfqjf,nyzjh 
yvfqnyjfxqvci,nVnqjgntzwfnfqjfnVnpviqfnjijvcnyvfqkbfnwj.vf nwj np rzwt
gkycnjfnp nkwgnqkbhmnVnrwzafnvppzgvjfzw njcg,njrnVnjtfzhyjhgnuczy,nfvww
jdkbfnkcznk’xwkxu;ndbfnyqzcnVnykuznvfnyjrnfknrvfnrfhjviqfnba,njr
xkpawzfzw nhkbrzgnjrnvtnjnqjcgnqjgnrqkkunpzmnVnqjgnwztfnjnwviqf
dbhcvci,ndbfnvfnyjrnckynkbf,njcgnVntzwfnjcnvcrfjcfnxzhfjvcf nfqjfnTwkhj
qjgnz.fvcibvrqzgnvfmnFqvrndhkbiqfnpznfknp ntzzfnjcgnrfhjviqf,nvcnfqz
gjhuczrr,nfknqzhndzg,nyqvxqnVntkbcgnrqznqjgnwztfmnJniwjcxznjfnfqz
yvcgkynzcwviqfzczgnpzntbhfqzh,njcgnfqznrfhvuvcinktnjnpjfxqnxkpawzfzg
fqznavxfbhzm

Fqznxqvwgnqjgnjijvcnikfnba—fqvrnfvpzndwkyvcinkbfnfqznfjazh,njcgnqjg
jijvc,ntkhnrkpznabhakrznktnkdrzhojfvkcnkhnhzrakcrz,nrebzzszgnvcndzqvcg
fqzndwvcgnjcgnyjrnazzhvcinkbfnvcfknfqzncviqfmnFqjfnrqznckynrjy—jrnrqz
qjgnckf,nVnqjgnrjfvrtvzgnp rzwt,nfqznahzovkbrnfvpz—yjrnahkozgnfknpznd 
fqzntjxfnfqjfnrqznyjrngvrfbhdzgnczvfqzhnd np nhzvwwbpvcjfvkcnckhnd nfqz
qjrfznVnpjgznfknizfnvcfknrwvaazhrnjcgnvcfknjnyhjamnQvggzc,nahkfzxfzg,
jdrkhdzg,nrqznzovgzcfw nhzrfzgnkcnfqznrvww—fqznxjrzpzcfnkazczg
tkhyjhg—jcgnijoznqzhrzwtnbamnFqzhznyjrnjnihzjfnrfvwwnpkkcnfknqzwanqzh,
jcgnfqvrntjxfnqjgnxkbcfzgnvcnp nebvxungzxvrvkcmnRqznyjrntjxznfkntjxz
yvfqnfqznjaajhvfvkcnyznqjgnpzfnjfnfqznwjuz,njcgnxkbwgnckynxkppbcvxjfz
yvfqnvfnjrnrqznqjgnckfnfqzcndzzcnjdwznfkngkmnYqjfnV,nkcnp nrvgz,nqjgnfk
xjhzntkhnyjr,nyvfqkbfngvrfbhdvcinqzh,nfknhzjxq,nthkpnfqznxkhhvgkh,nrkpz
kfqzhnyvcgkynvcnfqznrjpznebjhfzhmnVnikfnfknfqzngkkhnyvfqkbfnqzhnqzjhvci
pz;nVnikfnkbfnktnvf,nxwkrzgnvf,njcgnwvrfzczg,nthkpnfqznkfqzhnrvgz,ntkh
rkpznrkbcgnthkpnqzhmnYqvwznVnrfkkgnvcnfqznajrrjiznVnqjgnp nz zrnkcnqzh
dhkfqzh’rngkkh,nyqvxqnyjrndbfnfzcnrfzarnkttnjcgnyqvxq,nvcgzrxhvdjdw ,
ahkgbxzgnvcnpznjnhzczyjwnktnfqznrfhjciznvpabwrznfqjfnVnwjfzw nrakuznkt
jrnp nfzpafjfvkcmnYqjfnvtnVnrqkbwgniknrfhjviqfnvcnjcgnpjhxqnfkn_qvr_
yvcgky?—yqjfnvt,nd nhvruvcinfknqvrndk vrqndzyvwgzhpzcfnjnhzozwjfvkcnkt
p npkfvoz,nVnrqkbwgnfqhkynjxhkrrnfqznhzrfnktnfqznp rfzh nfqznwkci
qjwfzhnktnp ndkwgczrr?

Fqvrnfqkbiqfnqzwgnpznrbttvxvzcfw nfknpjuznpznxhkrrnfknqvrnfqhzrqkwgnjcg
ajbrznjijvcmnVnahzfzhcjfbhjww nwvrfzczg;nVntvibhzgnfknp rzwtnyqjfnpviqf
akhfzcfkbrw ndz;nVnykcgzhzgnvtnqvrndzgnyzhznjwrknzpaf njcgnqznfkknyzhz
rzxhzfw njfnyjfxqmnVfnyjrnjngzza,nrkbcgwzrrnpvcbfz,njfnfqznzcgnktnyqvxq
p nvpabwrzntjvwzgmnQznyjrnebvzf;nqznpviqfndznvcckxzcf;nfqznhvrunyjr
qvgzkbr;nVnfbhczgnjyj mnFqzhznyjrnjntvibhznvcnfqznihkbcgr—jntvibhz
ahkywvcintkhnjnrviqf,nfqznovrvfkhnyvfqnyqkpnTwkhjnyjrnzcijizg;ndbfnvf
yjrnckfnfqznovrvfkhnpkrfnxkcxzhczgnyvfqnp ndk mnVnqzrvfjfzgnjthzrq,ndbf
kcnkfqzhnihkbcgrnjcgnkcw ntkhnjntzynrzxkcgr;nfqzcnVnqjgnpjgznp nxqkvxzm
Fqzhznyzhznzpaf nhkkprnjfnDw ,njcgnvfnyjrnkcw njnebzrfvkcnktnxqkkrvci
fqznhviqfnkczmnFqznhviqfnkcznrbggzcw nahzrzcfzgnvfrzwtnfknpznjrnfqz
wkyzhnkcz—fqkbiqnqviqnjdkoznfqznijhgzcr—vcnfqznrkwvgnxkhczhnktnfqz
qkbrznfqjfnVnqjoznrakuzcnktnjrnfqznkwgnfkyzhmnFqvrnyjrnjnwjhiz,nrebjhz
xqjpdzh,njhhjcizgnyvfqnrkpznrfjfznjrnjndzghkkp,nfqznz.fhjojijcfnrvsznkt
yqvxqnpjgznvfnrknvcxkcozcvzcfnfqjfnvfnqjgnckfntkhn zjhr,nfqkbiqnuzafnd 
PhrmnIhkrznvcnz.zpawjh nkhgzh,ndzzcnkxxbavzgmnVnqjgnktfzcnjgpvhzgnvf
jcgnVnuczynp nyj njdkbfnvcnvf;nVnqjgnkcw ,njtfzhnlbrfntjwfzhvcinjfnfqz
tvhrfnxqvwwniwkkpnktnvfrngvrbrz,nfknajrrnjxhkrrnvfnjcgnbcdkwfnjr
ebvzfw njrnVnxkbwgnkcznktnfqznrqbffzhrmnJxqvzovcinfqvrnfhjcrvf,nV
bcxkozhzgnfqzniwjrrnyvfqkbfnjnrkbcgnjcg,njaaw vcinp ntjxznfknfqznajcz,
yjrnjdwz,nfqzngjhuczrrnyvfqkbfndzvcinpbxqnwzrrnfqjcnyvfqvc,nfknrzznfqjf
VnxkppjcgzgnfqznhviqfngvhzxfvkcmnFqzcnVnrjynrkpzfqvcinpkhzmnFqznpkkc
pjgznfqzncviqfnz.fhjkhgvcjhvw nazczfhjdwznjcgnrqkyzgnpznkcnfqznwjycnj
azhrkc,ngvpvcvrqzgnd ngvrfjcxz,nyqknrfkkgnfqzhznpkfvkcwzrrnjcgnjrnvt
tjrxvcjfzg,nwkkuvcinbanfknyqzhznVnqjgnjaazjhzg—wkkuvci,nfqjfnvr,nckfnrk
pbxqnrfhjviqfnjfnpznjrnjfnrkpzfqvcinfqjfnyjrnjaajhzcfw njdkoznpzmnFqzhz
yjrnxwzjhw njckfqzhnazhrkcnjdkoznpz—fqzhznyjrnjnazhrkcnkcnfqznfkyzh;
dbfnfqznahzrzcxznkcnfqznwjycnyjrnckfnvcnfqznwzjrfnyqjfnVnqjgnxkcxzvozg
jcgnqjgnxkctvgzcfw nqbhhvzgnfknpzzfmnFqznahzrzcxznkcnfqznwjyc—Vntzwf
rvxunjrnVnpjgznvfnkbf—yjrnakkhnwvffwznPvwzrnqvprzwtm


.V

Vfnyjrnckfnfvwwnwjfzncz.fngj nfqjfnVnrakuznfknPhrmnIhkrz;nfqznhvikh
yvfqnyqvxqnVnuzafnp nabavwrnvcnrviqfnpjuvcinvfnktfzcngvttvxbwfnfknpzzf
qzhnahvojfzw ,njcgnfqznpkhznjrnyznzjxqntzwfnfqznvpakhfjcxznktnckf
ahkokuvci—kcnfqznajhfnktnfqznrzhojcfrnebvfznjrnpbxqnjrnkcnfqjfnktnfqz
xqvwghzc—jc nrbravxvkcnktnjnrzxhzfntwbhh nkhnfqjfnktnjngvrxbrrvkcnkt
p rfzhvzrmnVnghzynjnihzjfnrzxbhvf nvcnfqvrnajhfvxbwjhnthkpnqzhnpzhz
rpkkfqnjrazxfmnFqzhznyjrnckfqvcinvcnqzhnthzrqntjxznfknajrrnkcnfknkfqzhr
p nqkhhvdwznxkctvgzcxzrmnRqzndzwvzozgnpz,nVnyjrnrbhz,njdrkwbfzw :nvt
rqznqjgc’fnVngkc’fnuckynyqjfnykbwgnqjozndzxkpznktnpz,ntkhnVnxkbwgc’f
qjozndkhcznfqzndbrvczrrnjwkczmnDbfnrqznyjrnjnpjicvtvxzcfnpkcbpzcfnfk
fqzndwzrrvcinktnjnyjcfnktnvpjivcjfvkc,njcgnvtnrqznxkbwgnrzznvcnkbh
wvffwznxqjhizrnckfqvcindbfnfqzvhndzjbf njcgnjpvjdvwvf ,nfqzvhnqjaavczrr
jcgnxwzozhczrr,nrqznqjgnckngvhzxfnxkppbcvxjfvkcnyvfqnfqznrkbhxzrnktnp 
fhkbdwzmnVtnfqz nqjgndzzcnjfnjwwnovrvdw ndwviqfzgnkhndjffzhzg,nrqz
ykbwgngkbdfwzrrnqjoznihkyc,nkcnfhjxvcinvfndjxu,nqjiijhgnzckbiqnfknpjfxq
fqzp;njrnpjffzhrnrfkkg,nqkyzozh,nVnxkbwgntzzwnqzh,nyqzcnrqznrbhoz zg
fqzp,nyvfqnqzhnwjhiznyqvfznjhprntkwgzgnjcgnfqznqjdvfnktnrzhzcvf nvcnjww
qzhnwkku,nfqjcunfqznWkhg’rnpzhx nfqjfnvtnfqz nyzhznhbvczgnfqznavzxzr
ykbwgnrfvwwnrzhozmnTwviqfrnktntjcx nijoznawjxz,nvcnqzhnpvcg,nfknj
rfzjg ntvhzrvgzniwky,njcgnVnqjgnjwhzjg ndzibcnfknazhxzvoznqky,nyvfqnfqz
gzozwkapzcfnktnfqznxkcovxfvkcnfqjf—jrnfvpznyzcfnkcnyvfqkbfnjnabdwvx
jxxvgzcf—kbhn kbcinfqvcirnxkbwg,njtfzhnjww,nwkkunkbfntkhnfqzprzwozr,
rqznjgghzrrzgnqzhnihzjfzrfnrkwvxvfbgznfknfqznrjgnxjrznahzrzcfzgnd 
fqzvhnvcrfhbxfhzrrmnFqjf,ntkhnp rzwt,nyjrnjnrkbcgnrvpawvtvxjfvkc:nV
xkbwgnzcijiznfqjf,nfknfqznykhwg,np ntjxznrqkbwgnfzwwncknfjwzr,ndbfnvf
ykbwgnqjozndzzc,nvcnfqznxkcgvfvkcr,njcnvppzcrznjggzgnrfhjvcnfkntvcg
p rzwtnjc.vkbrnjdkbfnqzhrm

JfnfqznqkbhnVnckynrazjunktnrqznqjgnlkvczgnpz,nbcgzhnahzrrbhz,nkcnfqz
fzhhjxz,nyqzhz,nyvfqnfqznwjarznktnfqznrzjrkc,nfqznjtfzhckkcnrbcnyjrncky
jihzzjdwz;njcgnyznrjfnfqzhznfkizfqzhnyqvwz,ndztkhznbr,njfnjngvrfjcxz,
dbfnyvfqvcnxjwwnvtnyznyvrqzg,nfqznxqvwghzcnrfhkwwzgnfknjcgnthknvcnkcz
ktnfqzvhnpkrfnpjcjizjdwznpkkgrmnFqz npkozgnrwkyw ,nvcnbcvrkc,ndzwkynbr,
kozhnfqznwjyc,nfqzndk ,njrnfqz nyzcf,nhzjgvcinjwkbgnthkpnjnrfkh dkku
jcgnajrrvcinqvrnjhpnhkbcgnqvrnrvrfzhnfknuzzanqzhnebvfznvcnfkbxqmnPhrm
Ihkrznyjfxqzgnfqzpnyvfqnakrvfvoznawjxvgvf ;nfqzcnVnxjbiqfnfqz
rbaahzrrzgnvcfzwwzxfbjwnxhzjunyvfqnyqvxqnrqznxkcrxvzcfvkbrw nfbhczgnfk
fjuznthkpnpznjnovzynktnfqzndjxunktnfqznfjazrfh mnVnqjgnpjgznqzhnj
hzxzafjxwznktnwbhvgnfqvcir,ndbfnfqzhznyjrnjcnkggnhzxkicvfvkcnktnp 
rbazhvkhvf —p njxxkpawvrqpzcfrnjcgnp ntbcxfvkc—vcnqzhnajfvzcxznbcgzhnp 
ajvcmnRqznkttzhzgnqzhnpvcgnfknp ngvrxwkrbhzrnjr,nqjgnVnyvrqzgnfknpv.nj
yvfxq’rndhkfqnjcgnahkakrzgnvfnyvfqnjrrbhjcxz,nrqznykbwgnqjoznqzwgnkbfnj
wjhiznxwzjcnrjbxzajcmnFqvrnqjgndzxkpznfqkhkbiqw nqzhnjffvfbgznd nfqz
fvpznfqjf,nvcnp nhzxvfjwnktnfqznzozcfrnktnfqzncviqf,nVnhzjxqzgnfqz
akvcfnktnyqjfnPvwzrnqjgnrjvgnfknpznyqzc,njtfzhnrzzvcinqvp,njfnrbxqnj
pkcrfhkbrnqkbh,njwpkrfnkcnfqznozh nrakfnyqzhznqznqjaazczgnckynfkndz,nV
qjgnikczngkycnfkndhvcinqvpnvc;nxqkkrvcinfqzc,njfnfqznyvcgky,nyvfqnj
xkcxzcfhjfzgnczzgnktnckfnjwjhpvcinfqznqkbrz,nhjfqzhnfqjfnpzfqkgnfqjcnj
rvicjwnpkhznhzrkcjcfmnVnqjgnwztfnqzhnpzjcyqvwznvcnwvffwzngkbdfnktnp 
rpjwwnqkaznktnhzahzrzcfvcinyvfqnrbxxzrrnzozcnfknqzhnjxfbjwnr pajfq np 
rzcrznktnfqznhzjwnrawzcgkhnktnfqznwvffwznvcravhjfvkcnyvfqnyqvxq,njtfzh
Vnqjgnikfnqvpnvcfknfqznqkbrz,nfqzndk npzfnp ntvcjwnjhfvxbwjfz
xqjwwzcizmnJrnrkkcnjrnVnjaazjhzgnvcnfqznpkkcwviqfnkcnfqznfzhhjxz,nqz
qjgnxkpznfknpznjrnrfhjviqfnjrnakrrvdwz;nkcnyqvxqnVnqjgnfjuzcnqvrnqjcg
yvfqkbfnjnykhgnjcgnwzgnqvp,nfqhkbiqnfqzngjhunrajxzr,nbanfqznrfjvhxjrz
yqzhznEbvcfnqjgnrknqbcihvw nqkozhzgntkhnqvp,njwkcinfqznwkdd nyqzhznV
qjgnwvrfzczgnjcgnfhzpdwzg,njcgnrknfknqvrntkhrjuzcnhkkpm

Ckfnjnrkbcg,nkcnfqznyj ,nqjgnajrrzgndzfyzzcnbr,njcgnVnqjgnykcgzhzg—kq,
_qky_nVnqjgnykcgzhzg!—vtnqznyzhznihkavcinjdkbfnvcnqvrnwvffwznpvcgntkh
rkpzfqvcinawjbrvdwznjcgnckfnfkknihkfzrebzmnVfnykbwgnfj.nqvrnvcozcfvkc,
xzhfjvcw ,njcgnVntzwf,nfqvrnfvpz,nkozhnqvrnhzjwnzpdjhhjrrpzcf,nj
xbhvkbrnfqhvwwnktnfhvbpaqmnVfnyjrnjnrqjhanfhjantkhnfqznvcrxhbfjdwz!nQz
xkbwgc’fnawj njc nwkcizhnjfnvcckxzcxz;nrknqkynfqzngzbxznykbwgnqznizf
kbfnktnvf?nFqzhzndzjfnvcnpznvcgzzg,nyvfqnfqznajrrvkcjfznfqhkdnktnfqvr
ebzrfvkcnjcnzebjwngbpdnjaazjwnjrnfknqkynfqzngzbxzn_V_nrqkbwgmnVnyjr
xkcthkcfzgnjfnwjrf,njrnczozhn zf,nyvfqnjwwnfqznhvrunjffjxqzgnzozcncky
fknrkbcgvcinp nkycnqkhhvgnckfzmnVnhzpzpdzhnvcntjxfnfqjfnjrnyznabrqzg
vcfknqvrnwvffwznxqjpdzh,nyqzhznfqzndzgnqjgnckfndzzcnrwzafnvcnjfnjwwnjcg
fqznyvcgky,nbcxkozhzgnfknfqznpkkcwviqf,npjgznfqznawjxznrknxwzjhnfqjf
fqzhznyjrncknczzgnktnrfhvuvcinjnpjfxq—VnhzpzpdzhnqkynVnrbggzcw 
ghkaazg,nrjcunbakcnfqznzgiznktnfqzndzgnthkpnfqzntkhxznktnfqznvgzjnfqjf
qznpbrfnuckynqkynqznhzjww ,njrnfqz nrj ,n“qjg”npzmnQznxkbwgngknyqjfnqz
wvuzg,nyvfqnjwwnqvrnxwzozhczrrnfknqzwanqvp,nrknwkcinjrnVnrqkbwg
xkcfvcbznfkngztzhnfknfqznkwgnfhjgvfvkcnktnfqznxhvpvcjwvf nktnfqkrz
xjhzfjuzhrnktnfqzn kbcinyqknpvcvrfzhnfknrbazhrfvfvkcrnjcgntzjhrmnQz
“qjg”npznvcgzzg,njcgnvcnjnxwztfnrfvxu;ntkhnyqknykbwgnzozhnjdrkwoznpz,
yqknykbwgnxkcrzcfnfqjfnVnrqkbwgniknbcqbci,nvt,nd nfqzntjvcfzrfnfhzpkh
ktnjcnkozhfbhz,nVnyzhznfqzntvhrfnfknvcfhkgbxznvcfknkbhnazhtzxf
vcfzhxkbhrznjcnzwzpzcfnrkngvhz?nCk,nck:nvfnyjrnbrzwzrrnfknjffzpafnfk
xkcoz nfknPhrmnIhkrz,nlbrfnjrnvfnvrnrxjhxzw nwzrrnrknfknjffzpafnfk
rbiizrfnqzhz,nqky,nvcnkbhnrqkhf,nrfvttndhbrqnvcnfqzngjhu,nqzntjvhw 
rqkkunpznyvfqnjgpvhjfvkcmnVnyjrnktnxkbhrznfqkhkbiqw nuvcgnjcgnpzhxvtbw;
czozh,nczozhn zfnqjgnVnawjxzgnkcnqvrnwvffwznrqkbwgzhrnqjcgrnktnrbxq
fzcgzhczrrnjrnfqkrznyvfqnyqvxq,nyqvwznVnhzrfzgnjijvcrfnfqzndzg,nVnqzwg
qvpnfqzhznyzwwnbcgzhntvhzmnVnqjgncknjwfzhcjfvozndbf,nvcntkhpnjfnwzjrf,
fknabfnvfnfknqvpm

“ kbnpbrfnfzwwnpzncky—jcgnjwwnfqznfhbfqmnYqjfngvgn kbniknkbfntkh?nYqjf
yzhzn kbngkvcinfqzhz?”

Vnxjcnrfvwwnrzznqvrnykcgzhtbwnrpvwz,nfqznyqvfzrnktnqvrndzjbfvtbwnz zr,
jcgnfqznbcxkozhvcinktnqvrnwvffwznfzzfqnrqvcznfknpznvcnfqzngbrumn“VtnV
fzwwn kbnyq ,nyvwwn kbnbcgzhrfjcg?”nP nqzjhf,njfnfqvr,nwzjazgnvcfknp 
pkbfqmn_Ykbwg_nqznfzwwnpznyq ?nVntkbcgncknrkbcgnkcnp nwvarnfknahzrrnvf,
jcgnVnyjrnjyjhznktnhzaw vcinkcw nyvfqnjnojibz,nhzazjfzg,nihvpjxvcinckgm
Qznyjrnizcfwzczrrnvfrzwt,njcgnyqvwznVnyjiizgnp nqzjgnjfnqvpnqznrfkkg
fqzhznpkhznfqjcnzozhnjnwvffwzntjvh nahvcxzmnVfnyjrnqvrndhviqfczrr
vcgzzgnfqjfnijoznpznjnhzravfzmnYkbwgnvfndznrknihzjfnvtnqznyzhznhzjww 
ikvcinfknfzwwnpz?n“Yzww,”nqznrjvgnjfnwjrf,n“lbrfnz.jxfw nvcnkhgzhnfqjf
 kbnrqkbwgngknfqvrm”

“Gknyqjf?”

“Fqvcunpz—tkhnjnxqjciz—_djg!_”nVnrqjwwnczozhntkhizfnfqznryzzfczrrnjcg
ijvzf nyvfqnyqvxqnqzndhkbiqfnkbfnfqznykhg,nckhnqky,nkcnfkanktnvf,nqz
dzcfntkhyjhgnjcgnuvrrzgnpzmnVfnyjrnahjxfvxjww nfqznzcgnktnzozh fqvcimnV
pzfnqvrnuvrrnjcgnVnqjgnfknpjuz,nyqvwznVntkwgzgnqvpntkhnjnpvcbfznvcnp 
jhpr,nfqznpkrfnrfbazcgkbrnzttkhfnckfnfknxh mnQznqjgnivozcnz.jxfw nfqz
jxxkbcfnktnqvprzwtnfqjfnazhpvffzgnwzjrfnktnp nikvcindzqvcgnvf,njcgnvf
yjrnkcw nyvfqnfqznzttzxfnktnxkctvhpvcinp njxxzafjcxznktnvfnfqjf,njrnV
ahzrzcfw niwjcxzgnjdkbfnfqznhkkp,nVnxkbwgnrj —

“Fqzcn kbngvgc’fnbcghzrrnjfnjww?”

Qzntjvhw niwvffzhzgnvcnfqzniwkkpmn“CkfnjfnjwwmnVnrjfnbanjcgnhzjgm”

“Jcgnyqzcngvgn kbnikngkyc?”

“JfnpvgcviqfmnYqzcnV’pndjgnVn_jp_ndjg!”

“Vnrzz,nVnrzz—vf’rnxqjhpvcimnDbfnqkynxkbwgn kbndznrbhznVnykbwgnucky
vf?”

“Kq,nVnjhhjcizgnfqjfnyvfqnTwkhjm”nQvrnjcryzhrnhjcinkbfnyvfqnj
hzjgvczrr!n“Rqznyjrnfknizfnbanjcgnwkkunkbfm”

“Yqvxqnvrnyqjfnrqzngvgngkm”nVfnyjrnVnyqkntzwwnvcfknfqznfhja!

“Rknrqzngvrfbhdzgn kb,njcg,nfknrzznyqjfnrqznyjrnwkkuvcinjf,n kbnjwrk
wkkuzg— kbnrjym”

“Yqvwzn kb,”nVnxkcxbhhzg,n“xjbiqfn kbhngzjfqnvcnfqzncviqfnjvh!”

Qznwvfzhjww ndwkkpzgnrknthkpnfqvrnz.awkvfnfqjfnqznxkbwgnjttkhg
hjgvjcfw nfknjrrzcfmn“QkynkfqzhyvrznrqkbwgnVnqjozndzzcndjgnzckbiq?”nqz
jruzgmnFqzc,njtfzhnjckfqzhnzpdhjxz,nfqznvcxvgzcfnjcgnkbhnvcfzhovzy
xwkrzgnkcnp nhzxkicvfvkcnktnjwwnfqznhzrzhozrnktnikkgczrrnfqjf,ntkhnqvr
lkuz,nqznqjgndzzcnjdwznfknghjynbakcm


.VV

FqznajhfvxbwjhnvpahzrrvkcnVnqjgnhzxzvozgnahkozgnvcnfqznpkhcvcinwviqf,nV
hzazjf,nckfnebvfznrbxxzrrtbww nahzrzcfjdwznfknPhrmnIhkrz,nfqkbiqnV
hzvctkhxzgnvfnyvfqnfqznpzcfvkcnktnrfvwwnjckfqzhnhzpjhunfqjfnqznqjgnpjgz
dztkhznyznrzajhjfzgmn“Vfnjwwnwvzrnvcnqjwtnjngkszcnykhgr,”nVnrjvgnfk
qzh,n“ykhgrnfqjfnhzjww nrzffwznfqznpjffzhmn‘Fqvcu,n kbnucky,nyqjfnV
_pviqf_ngk!’nQznfqhzynfqjfnkttnfknrqkynpznqkynikkgnqznvrmnQznuckyrngkyc
fknfqznihkbcgnyqjfnqzn‘pviqf’ngkmnFqjf’rnyqjfnqznijoznfqzpnjnfjrfznkt
jfnrxqkkwm”

“Wkhg,n kbngknxqjciz!”nxhvzgnp nthvzcgm

“Vngkc’fnxqjciz—Vnrvpaw npjuznvfnkbfmnFqzntkbh,ngzazcgnbakcnvf,
azhazfbjww npzzfmnVtnkcnzvfqzhnktnfqzrznwjrfncviqfrn kbnqjgndzzcnyvfq
zvfqzhnxqvwg,n kbnykbwgnxwzjhw nqjoznbcgzhrfkkgmnFqznpkhznV’oznyjfxqzg
jcgnyjvfzgnfqznpkhznV’ozntzwfnfqjfnvtnfqzhznyzhznckfqvcinzwrznfknpjuz
vfnrbhznvfnykbwgndznpjgznrknd nfqznr rfzpjfvxnrvwzcxznktnzjxqmn_Czozh_,
d njnrwvanktnfqznfkcibz,nqjoznfqz nrknpbxqnjrnjwwbgzgnfknzvfqzhnkt
fqzvhnkwgnthvzcgr,njc npkhznfqjcnPvwzrnqjrnjwwbgzgnfknqvrnz.abwrvkcm
Kq,n zr,nyznpj nrvfnqzhznjcgnwkkunjfnfqzp,njcgnfqz npj nrqkynkttnfknbr
fqzhznfknfqzvhntvww;ndbfnzozcnyqvwznfqz nahzfzcgnfkndznwkrfnvcnfqzvh
tjvh fjwznfqz ’hznrfzzazgnvcnfqzvhnovrvkcnktnfqzngzjgnhzrfkhzgmnQz’r
ckfnhzjgvcinfknqzh,”nVngzxwjhzg;n“fqz ’hznfjwuvcinktn_fqzp_—fqz ’hz
fjwuvcinqkhhkhr!nVniknkc,nVnucky,njrnvtnVnyzhznxhjs ;njcgnvf’rnjnykcgzh
V’pnckfmnYqjfnV’oznrzzcnykbwgnqjoznpjgzn_ kb_nrk;ndbfnvfnqjrnkcw npjgz
pznpkhznwbxvg,npjgznpznizfnqkwgnktnrfvwwnkfqzhnfqvcirm”

P nwbxvgvf npbrfnqjoznrzzpzgnjytbw,ndbfnfqznxqjhpvcinxhzjfbhzrnyqknyzhz
ovxfvprnktnvf,najrrvcinjcgnhzajrrvcinvcnfqzvhnvcfzhwkxuzgnryzzfczrr,
ijoznp nxkwwzjibznrkpzfqvcinfknqkwgnkcnd ;njcgnVntzwfnqkynfviqfnrqz
qzwgnjr,nyvfqkbfnrfvhhvcinvcnfqzndhzjfqnktnp najrrvkc,nrqznxkozhzgnfqzp
rfvwwnyvfqnqzhnz zrmn“Ktnyqjfnkfqzhnfqvcirnqjozn kbnikfnqkwg?”

“Yq ,nktnfqznozh nfqvcirnfqjfnqjozngzwviqfzg,ntjrxvcjfzg,njcgn zf,njf
dkffkp,njrnVnckynrknrfhjcizw nrzz,np rfvtvzgnjcgnfhkbdwzgnpzmnFqzvh
pkhznfqjcnzjhfqw ndzjbf ,nfqzvhnjdrkwbfzw nbccjfbhjwnikkgczrrmnVf’rnj
ijpz,”nVnyzcfnkc;n“vf’rnjnakwvx njcgnjnthjbg!”

“Kcnfqznajhfnktnwvffwzngjhwvcir—?”

“Jrn zfnpzhznwkozw ndjdvzr?n zr,npjgnjrnfqjfnrzzpr!”nFqznozh njxfnkt
dhvcivcinvfnkbfnhzjww nqzwazgnpznfknfhjxznvf—tkwwkynvfnjwwnbanjcgnavzxz
vfnjwwnfkizfqzhmn“Fqz nqjozc’fndzzcnikkg—fqz ’oznkcw ndzzcnjdrzcfmnVf
qjrndzzcnzjr nfknwvoznyvfqnfqzp,ndzxjbrznfqz ’hznrvpaw nwzjgvcinjnwvtz
ktnfqzvhnkycmnFqz ’hznckfnpvcz—fqz ’hznckfnkbhrmnFqz ’hznqvrnjcg
fqz ’hznqzhr!”

“Ebvcf’rnjcgnfqjfnykpjc’r?”

“Ebvcf’rnjcgnfqjfnykpjc’rmnFqz nyjcfnfknizfnfknfqzpm”

Kq,nqky,njfnfqvr,nakkhnPhrmnIhkrznjaazjhzgnfknrfbg nfqzp!n“Dbfntkh
yqjf?”

“Tkhnfqznwkoznktnjwwnfqznzovwnfqjf,nvcnfqkrznghzjgtbwngj r,nfqznajvh
abfnvcfknfqzpmnJcgnfknaw nfqzpnyvfqnfqjfnzovwnrfvww,nfknuzzanbanfqz
ykhunktngzpkcr,nvrnyqjfndhvcirnfqznkfqzhrndjxum”

“Wjyr!”nrjvgnp nthvzcgnbcgzhnqzhndhzjfqmnFqznz.xwjpjfvkcnyjrnqkpzw ,
dbfnvfnhzozjwzgnjnhzjwnjxxzafjcxznktnp ntbhfqzhnahkktnktnyqjf,nvcnfqz
djgnfvpz—tkhnfqzhznqjgndzzcnjnykhrznzozcnfqjcnfqvr!—pbrfnqjoznkxxbhhzgm
Fqzhznxkbwgnqjozndzzcncknrbxqnlbrfvtvxjfvkcntkhnpznjrnfqznawjvcnjrrzcf
ktnqzhnz.azhvzcxznfknyqjfzozhngzafqnktngzahjovf nVntkbcgnxhzgvdwznvc
kbhndhjxznktnrxkbcghzwrmnVfnyjrnvcnkdovkbrnrbdpvrrvkcnktnpzpkh nfqjf
rqzndhkbiqfnkbfnjtfzhnjnpkpzcf:n“Fqz n_yzhz_nhjrxjwr!nDbfnyqjfnxjcnfqz 
ckyngk?”nrqznabhrbzgm

“Gk?”nVnzxqkzgnrknwkbgnfqjfnPvwzrnjcgnTwkhj,njrnfqz najrrzgnjfnfqzvh
gvrfjcxz,najbrzgnjcnvcrfjcfnvcnfqzvhnyjwunjcgnwkkuzgnjfnbrmn“Gkc’fnfqz 
gknzckbiq?”nVngzpjcgzgnvcnjnwkyzhnfkcz,nyqvwznfqznxqvwghzc,nqjovci
rpvwzgnjcgnckggzgnjcgnuvrrzgnqjcgrnfknbr,nhzrbpzgnfqzvhnz.qvdvfvkcmnYz
yzhznqzwgnd nvfnjnpvcbfz;nfqzcnVnjcryzhzg:n“Fqz nxjcngzrfhk nfqzp!”nJf
fqvrnp nxkpajcvkcngvgnfbhc,ndbfnfqznvcebvh nrqznwjbcxqzgnyjrnjnrvwzcf
kcz,nfqznzttzxfnktnyqvxqnyjrnfknpjuznpznpkhznz.awvxvfmn“Fqz ngkc’f
ucky,njrn zf,nebvfznqky—dbfnfqz ’hznfh vcinqjhgmnFqz ’hznrzzcnkcw 
jxhkrr,njrnvfnyzhz,njcgndz kcg—vcnrfhjciznawjxzrnjcgnkcnqviqnawjxzr,
fqznfkanktnfkyzhr,nfqznhkktnktnqkbrzr,nfqznkbfrvgznktnyvcgkyr,nfqz
tbhfqzhnzgiznktnakkwr;ndbfnfqzhz’rnjngzzangzrvic,nkcnzvfqzhnrvgz,nfk
rqkhfzcnfqzngvrfjcxznjcgnkozhxkpznfqznkdrfjxwz;njcgnfqznrbxxzrrnktnfqz
fzpafzhrnvrnkcw njnebzrfvkcnktnfvpzmnFqz ’oznkcw nfknuzzanfknfqzvh
rbiizrfvkcrnktngjcizhm”

“Tkhnfqznxqvwghzcnfknxkpz?”

“Jcgnazhvrqnvcnfqznjffzpaf!”nPhrmnIhkrznrwkyw nikfnba,njcgnV
rxhbabwkbrw njggzg:n“Bcwzrr,nktnxkbhrz,nyznxjcnahzozcf!”

RfjcgvcinfqzhzndztkhznpznyqvwznVnuzafnp nrzjf,nrqznovrvdw nfbhczg
fqvcirnkozhmn“FqzvhnbcxwznpbrfngknfqznahzozcfvcimnQznpbrfnfjuznfqzp
jyj m”

“Jcgnyqk’rnfknpjuznqvp?”

Rqznqjgndzzcnrxjccvcinfqzngvrfjcxz,ndbfnrqznckynghkaazgnkcnpznjntkkwvrq
tjxzmn“ kb,npvrrm”

“D nyhvfvcinfknqvpnfqjfnqvrnqkbrznvrnakvrkczgnjcgnqvrnwvffwznczaqzynjcg
cvzxznpjg?”

“Dbfnvtnfqz n_jhz_,npvrr?”

“JcgnvtnVnjpnp rzwt,n kbnpzjc?nFqjf’rnxqjhpvcinczyrnfkndznrzcfnqvpnd nj
ikozhczrrnyqkrznahvpznbcgzhfjuvcinyjrnfknivoznqvpncknykhh m”

PhrmnIhkrznxkcrvgzhzg,ntkwwkyvcinfqznxqvwghzcnjijvcmn“ zr,nqzngknqjfz
ykhh mnFqjfnyjrnfqznihzjfnhzjrkc—”

“Yq nfqkrzntvzcgrnfkkunqvpnvcnrknwkci?nCkngkbdf,nfqkbiqnqvr
vcgvttzhzcxznpbrfnqjozndzzcnjytbwmnJrnV’pnckfnjntvzcg,njfnjc nhjfz,nV
rqkbwgc’fnfjuznqvpnvcm”

P nxkpajcvkc,njtfzhnjcnvcrfjcfnjcgntkhnjwwnjcryzh,nrjfngkycnjijvcnjcg
ihjrazgnp njhpmn“Pjuznqvpnjfnjc nhjfznxkpznfkn kbm”

Vnrfjhzgmn“Fkn_pz?_”nVnqjgnjnrbggzcntzjhnktnyqjfnrqznpviqfngkmn“‘Qvp’?”

“Qznkbiqfnfkn_dz_nqzhz—qznkbiqfnfknqzwam”

Vnebvxuw nhkrz,njcgnVnfqvcunVnpbrfnqjoznrqkycnqzhnjnebzzhzhntjxznfqjc
zozhn zfmn“ kbnrzznpznjruvcinqvpntkhnjnovrvf?”nCk,nyvfqnqzhnz zrnkcnp 
tjxznrqznzovgzcfw nxkbwgc’fmnVcrfzjgnktnvfnzozc—jrnjnykpjcnhzjgr
jckfqzh—rqznxkbwgnrzznyqjfnVnp rzwtnrjy:nqvrngzhvrvkc,nqvrnjpbrzpzcf,
qvrnxkcfzpafntkhnfqzndhzjugkycnktnp nhzrvicjfvkcnjfndzvcinwztfnjwkcz
jcgntkhnfqzntvcznpjxqvczh nVnqjgnrzfnvcnpkfvkcnfknjffhjxfnqvrnjffzcfvkc
fknp nrwviqfzgnxqjhprmnRqzngvgc’fnucky—cknkcznuczy—qkynahkbgnVnqjgndzzc
fknrzhoznqvpnjcgnfknrfvxunfknkbhnfzhpr;n zfnrqznckczfqzwzrrnfkkunfqz
pzjrbhz,nVnfqvcu,nktnfqznyjhcvcinVnckynijoznqzhmn“Vtn kbnrqkbwgnrknwkrz
 kbhnqzjgnjrnfknjaazjwnfknqvpntkhnpz—”

Rqznyjrnhzjww nthviqfzczgmn“ zr,npvrr?”

“Vnykbwgnwzjoz,nkcnfqznrakf,ndkfqnqvpnjcgn kbm”


.VVV

Vfnyjrnjwwnozh nyzwwnfknlkvcnfqzp,ndbfnrazjuvcinfknfqzpnahkozgnebvfznjr
pbxqnjrnzozhnjcnzttkhfndz kcgnp nrfhzcifq—kttzhzg,nvcnxwkrznebjhfzhr,
gvttvxbwfvzrnjrnvcrbhpkbcfjdwznjrndztkhzmnFqvrnrvfbjfvkcnxkcfvcbzgnj
pkcfq,njcgnyvfqnczynjiihjojfvkcrnjcgnajhfvxbwjhnckfzr,nfqznckfznjdkoz
jww,nrqjhazhnjcgnrqjhazh,nktnfqznrpjwwnvhkcvxnxkcrxvkbrczrrnkcnfqznajhf
ktnp nabavwrmnVfnyjrnckf,nVnjpnjrnrbhznfkgj njrnVnyjrnrbhznfqzc,np 
pzhznvctzhcjwnvpjivcjfvkc:nvfnyjrnjdrkwbfzw nfhjxzjdwznfqjfnfqz nyzhz
jyjhznktnp nahzgvxjpzcfnjcgnfqjfnfqvrnrfhjciznhzwjfvkcnpjgz,nvcnj
pjcczh,ntkhnjnwkcinfvpz,nfqznjvhnvcnyqvxqnyznpkozgmnVngkc’fnpzjcnfqjf
fqz nqjgnfqzvhnfkcibzrnvcnfqzvhnxqzzurnkhngvgnjc fqvcinobwijh,ntkhnfqjf
yjrnckfnkcznktnfqzvhngjcizhr:nVngknpzjc,nkcnfqznkfqzhnqjcg,nfqjfnfqz
zwzpzcfnktnfqznbccjpzgnjcgnbcfkbxqzgndzxjpz,ndzfyzzcnbr,nihzjfzhnfqjc
jc nkfqzh,njcgnfqjfnrknpbxqnjokvgjcxznxkbwgnckfnqjozndzzcnrk
rbxxzrrtbww nzttzxfzgnyvfqkbfnjnihzjfngzjwnktnfjxvfnjhhjcizpzcfmnVfnyjr
jrnvt,njfnpkpzcfr,nyznyzhznazhazfbjww nxkpvcinvcfknrviqfnktnrbdlzxfr
dztkhznyqvxqnyznpbrfnrfkanrqkhf,nfbhcvcinrbggzcw nkbfnktnjwwz rnfqjfnyz
azhxzvozgnfkndzndwvcg,nxwkrvcinyvfqnjnwvffwzndjcinfqjfnpjgznbrnwkkunjf
zjxqnkfqzh—tkh,nwvuznjwwndjcir,nvfnyjrnrkpzfqvcinwkbgzhnfqjcnyznqjg
vcfzcgzg—fqzngkkhrnyznqjgnvcgvrxhzzfw nkazczgmnJwwnhkjgrnwzjgnfknHkpz,
jcgnfqzhznyzhznfvpzrnyqzcnvfnpviqfnqjoznrfhbxunbrnfqjfnjwpkrfnzozh 
dhjcxqnktnrfbg nkhnrbdlzxfnktnxkcozhrjfvkcnruvhfzgntkhdvggzcnihkbcgm
Tkhdvggzcnihkbcgnyjrnfqznebzrfvkcnktnfqznhzfbhcnktnfqzngzjgnvcnizczhjw
jcgnktnyqjfzozh,nvcnzrazxvjw,npviqfnrbhovoz,nvcnpzpkh ,nktnfqznthvzcgr
wvffwznxqvwghzcnqjgnwkrfmnFqzhznyzhzngj rnyqzcnVnxkbwgnqjoznrykhcnfqjf
kcznktnfqzpnqjg,nyvfqnjnrpjwwnvcovrvdwzncbgiz,nrjvgnfknfqznkfqzh:n“Rqz
fqvcurnrqz’wwngknvfnfqvrnfvpz—dbfnrqzn_ykc’f!_”nFkn“gknvf”nykbwgnqjoz
dzzcnfknvcgbwizntkhnvcrfjcxz—jcgntkhnkcxznvcnjnyj —vcnrkpzngvhzxf
hztzhzcxznfknfqznwjg nyqknqjgnahzajhzgnfqzpntkhnp ngvrxvawvczmnFqz nqjg
jngzwviqftbwnzcgwzrrnjaazfvfzntkhnajrrjizrnvcnp nkycnqvrfkh ,nfknyqvxq
Vnqjgnjijvcnjcgnjijvcnfhzjfzgnfqzp;nfqz nyzhznvcnakrrzrrvkcnkt
zozh fqvcinfqjfnqjgnzozhnqjaazczgnfknpz,nqjgnqjg,nyvfqnzozh 
xvhxbprfjcxznfqznrfkh nktnp nrpjwwzrfnjgozcfbhzrnjcgnktnfqkrznktnp 
dhkfqzhrnjcgnrvrfzhrnjcgnktnfqznxjfnjcgnfqzngkinjfnqkpz,njrnyzwwnjr
pjc najhfvxbwjhrnktnfqznzxxzcfhvxncjfbhznktnp ntjfqzh,nktnfqzntbhcvfbhz
jcgnjhhjcizpzcfnktnkbhnqkbrz,njcgnktnfqznxkcozhrjfvkcnktnfqznkwgnykpzc
ktnkbhnovwwjizmnFqzhznyzhznfqvcirnzckbiq,nfjuvcinkcznyvfqnjckfqzh,nfk
xqjffzhnjdkbf,nvtnkcznyzcfnozh ntjrfnjcgnuczynd nvcrfvcxfnyqzcnfknik
hkbcgmnFqz nabwwzgnyvfqnjcnjhfnktnfqzvhnkycnfqznrfhvcirnktnp nvcozcfvkc
jcgnp npzpkh ;njcgnckfqvcinzwrznazhqjar,nyqzcnVnfqkbiqfnktnrbxq
kxxjrvkcrnjtfzhyjhg,nijoznpznrknfqznrbravxvkcnktndzvcinyjfxqzgnthkp
bcgzhnxkozhmnVfnyjrnvcnjc nxjrznkozhn_p _nwvtz,n_p _najrf,njcgn_p _
thvzcgrnjwkcznfqjfnyznxkbwgnfjuznjc fqvcinwvuznkbhnzjrz—jnrfjfznkt
jttjvhrnfqjfnwzgnfqzpnrkpzfvpzrnyvfqkbfnfqznwzjrfnazhfvczcxznfkndhzju
kbfnvcfknrkxvjdwznhzpvcgzhrmnVnyjrnvcovfzg—yvfqncknovrvdwz
xkcczxfvkc—fknhzazjfnjthzrqnIkkg nIkrwvci’rnxzwzdhjfzgn_pkf_nkhnfk
xkctvhpnfqzngzfjvwrnjwhzjg nrbaawvzgnjrnfknfqznxwzozhczrrnktnfqz
ovxjhjiznakc m

Vfnyjrnajhfw njfnrbxqnlbcxfbhzrnjrnfqzrznjcgnajhfw njfnebvfzngvttzhzcf
kczrnfqjf,nyvfqnfqznfbhcnp npjffzhrnqjgnckynfjuzc,np nahzgvxjpzcf,njrnV
qjoznxjwwzgnvf,nihzynpkrfnrzcrvdwzmnFqzntjxfnfqjfnfqzngj rnajrrzgntkh
pznyvfqkbfnjckfqzhnzcxkbcfzhnkbiqf,nvfnykbwgnqjoznjaazjhzg,nfknqjoz
gkcznrkpzfqvcinfkyjhgnrkkfqvcinp nczhozrmnRvcxznfqznwviqfndhbrq,nfqjf
rzxkcgncviqfnkcnfqznbaazhnwjcgvci,nktnfqznahzrzcxznktnjnykpjcnjfnfqz
tkkfnktnfqznrfjvh,nVnqjgnrzzcnckfqvci,nyqzfqzhnvcnkhnkbfnktnfqznqkbrz,
fqjfnkcznqjgndzffzhnckfnqjoznrzzcmnFqzhznyjrnpjc njnxkhczhnhkbcgnyqvxq
Vnz.azxfzgnfknxkpznbakcnEbvcf,njcgnpjc njnrvfbjfvkcnfqjf,nvcnjnpzhzw 
rvcvrfzhnyj ,nykbwgnqjozntjokhzgnfqznjaazjhjcxznktnPvrrnLzrrzwmnFqz
rbppzhnqjgnfbhczg,nfqznrbppzhnqjgnikcz;nfqznjbfbpcnqjgnghkaazgnbakcnDw 
jcgnqjgndwkycnkbfnqjwtnkbhnwviqfrmnFqznawjxz,nyvfqnvfrnihj nru njcg
yvfqzhzgnijhwjcgr,nvfrndjhzgnrajxzrnjcgnrxjffzhzgngzjgnwzjozr,nyjrnwvuz
jnfqzjfzhnjtfzhnfqznazhtkhpjcxz—jwwnrfhzycnyvfqnxhbpawzgnawj dvwwrm
Fqzhznyzhznz.jxfw nrfjfzrnktnfqznjvh,nxkcgvfvkcrnktnrkbcgnjcgnkt
rfvwwczrr,nbcrazjujdwznvpahzrrvkcrnktnfqzn_uvcg_nktnpvcvrfzhvcinpkpzcf,
fqjfndhkbiqfndjxunfknpz,nwkcinzckbiqnfknxjfxqnvf,nfqzntzzwvcinktnfqz
pzgvbpnvcnyqvxq,nfqjfnLbcznzozcvcinkbfnktngkkhr,nVnqjgnqjgnp ntvhrf
rviqfnktnEbvcf,njcgnvcnyqvxq,nfkk,njfnfqkrznkfqzhnvcrfjcfr,nVnqjg,
jtfzhnrzzvcinqvpnfqhkbiqnfqznyvcgky,nwkkuzgntkhnqvpnvcnojvcnvcnfqz
xvhxwznktnrqhbddzh mnVnhzxkicvszgnfqznrvicr,nfqznakhfzcfr—Vnhzxkicvszg
fqznpkpzcf,nfqznrakfmnDbfnfqz nhzpjvczgnbcjxxkpajcvzgnjcgnzpaf ,njcgnV
xkcfvcbzgnbcpkwzrfzg;nvtnbcpkwzrfzgnkcznxkbwgnxjwwnjn kbcinykpjcnyqkrz
rzcrvdvwvf nqjg,nvcnfqznpkrfnz.fhjkhgvcjh ntjrqvkc,nckfngzxwvczgndbf
gzzazczgmnVnqjgnrjvgnvcnp nfjwunyvfqnPhrmnIhkrznkcnfqjfnqkhhvgnrxzcznkt
Twkhj’rnd nfqznwjuz—jcgnqjgnazhawz.zgnqzhnd nrknrj vci—fqjfnvfnykbwg
thkpnfqjfnpkpzcfngvrfhzrrnpznpbxqnpkhznfknwkrznp nakyzhnfqjcnfknuzza
vfmnVnqjgnfqzcnz.ahzrrzgnyqjfnyjrnovovgw nvcnp npvcg:nfqznfhbfqnfqjf,
yqzfqzhnfqznxqvwghzcnhzjww nrjynkhnckf—rvcxz,nfqjfnvr,nvfnyjrnckfn zf
gztvcvfzw nahkozg—Vnihzjfw nahztzhhzg,njrnjnrjtzibjhg,nfqzntbwwczrrnkt
p nkycnz.akrbhzmnVnyjrnhzjg nfknuckynfqznozh nykhrfnfqjfnyjrnfkndz
uckycmnYqjfnVnqjgnfqzcnqjgnjcnbiw niwvparznktnyjrnfqjfnp nz zrnpviqfndz
rzjwzgnlbrfnyqvwznfqzvhrnyzhznpkrfnkazczgmnYzww,np nz zrn_yzhz_nrzjwzg,
vfnjaazjhzg,njfnahzrzcf—jnxkcrbppjfvkcntkhnyqvxqnvfnrzzpzgndwjraqzpkbr
ckfnfknfqjcunIkgmnFqzhznyjr,njwjr,njngvttvxbwf njdkbfnfqjf:nVnykbwg
qjoznfqjcuzgnqvpnyvfqnjwwnp nrkbwnqjgnVnckfnqjgnvcnjnahkakhfvkcjfz
pzjrbhznfqvrnxkcovxfvkcnktnfqznrzxhzfnktnp nabavwrm

QkynxjcnVnhzfhjxznfkgj nfqznrfhjciznrfzarnktnp nkdrzrrvkc?nFqzhznyzhz
fvpzrnktnkbhndzvcinfkizfqzhnyqzcnVnykbwgnqjozndzzcnhzjg nfknryzjhnfqjf,
wvfzhjww ,nvcnp nahzrzcxz,ndbfnyvfqnp ngvhzxfnrzcrznktnvfnxwkrzg,nfqz 
qjgnovrvfkhrnyqknyzhznuckycnjcgnyzhznyzwxkpzmnFqzcnvfnyjrnfqjf,nqjgnV
ckfndzzcngzfzhhzgnd nfqznozh nxqjcxznfqjfnrbxqnjcnvclbh npviqfnahkoz
ihzjfzhnfqjcnfqznvclbh nfkndznjozhfzg,np nz.bwfjfvkcnykbwgnqjozndhkuzc
kbfmn“Fqz ’hznqzhz,nfqz ’hznqzhz,n kbnwvffwznyhzfxqzr,”nVnykbwgnqjoz
xhvzg,n“jcgn kbnxjc’fngzc nvfncky!”nFqznwvffwznyhzfxqzrngzcvzgnvfnyvfq
jwwnfqznjggzgnokwbpznktnfqzvhnrkxvjdvwvf njcgnfqzvhnfzcgzhczrr,nvcnlbrf
fqznxh rfjwngzafqrnktnyqvxq—wvuznfqzntwjrqnktnjntvrqnvcnjnrfhzjp—fqz
pkxuzh nktnfqzvhnjgojcfjiznazzazgnbamnFqznrqkxu,nvcnfhbfq,nqjgnrbcu
vcfknpznrfvwwngzzazhnfqjcnVnuczynkcnfqzncviqfnyqzc,nwkkuvcinkbfnfknrzz
zvfqzhnEbvcfnkhnPvrrnLzrrzwnbcgzhnfqznrfjhr,nVnqjgndzqzwgnfqzndk nkozh
yqkrznhzrfnVnyjfxqzgnjcgnyqknqjgnvppzgvjfzw ndhkbiqfnvcnyvfqnqvp—qjg
rfhjviqfyj ,nfqzhz,nfbhczgnvfnkcnpz—fqznwkozw nbayjhgnwkkunyvfqnyqvxq,
thkpnfqzndjffwzpzcfrnjdkoznpz,nfqznqvgzkbrnjaajhvfvkcnktnEbvcfnqjg
awj zgmnVtnvfnyjrnjnebzrfvkcnktnjnrxjhz,np ngvrxkozh nkcnfqvrnkxxjrvkc
qjgnrxjhzgnpznpkhznfqjcnjc nkfqzh,njcgnvfnyjrnvcnfqznxkcgvfvkcnkt
czhozrnahkgbxzgnd nvfnfqjfnVnpjgznp njxfbjwnvcgbxfvkcrmnFqz nqjhjrrzg
pznrknfqjfnrkpzfvpzr,njfnkggnpkpzcfr,nVnrqbfnp rzwtnbanjbgvdw nfk
hzqzjhrz—vfnyjrnjfnkcxznjntjcfjrfvxnhzwvztnjcgnjnhzczyzgngzrajvh—fqz
pjcczhnvcnyqvxqnVnpviqfnxkpznfknfqznakvcfmnVnjaahkjxqzgnvfnthkpnkcz
rvgznjcgnfqznkfqzhnyqvwz,nvcnp nhkkp,nVntwbcinp rzwtnjdkbf,ndbfnV
jwyj rndhkuzngkycnvcnfqznpkcrfhkbrnbffzhjcxznktncjpzrmnJrnfqz ngvzg
jyj nkcnp nwvar,nVnrjvgnfknp rzwtnfqjfnVnrqkbwgnvcgzzgnqzwanfqzpnfk
hzahzrzcfnrkpzfqvcinvctjpkbr,nvt,nd nahkckbcxvcinfqzp,nVnrqkbwgnovkwjfz
jrnhjhznjnwvffwznxjrznktnvcrfvcxfvozngzwvxjx njrnjc nrxqkkwhkkp,
ahkdjdw ,nqjgnzozhnuckycmnYqzcnVnrjvgnfknp rzwt:n“_Fqz _nqjoznfqz
pjcczhrnfkndznrvwzcf,njcgn kb,nfhbrfzgnjrn kbnjhz,nfqzndjrzczrrnfk
razju!”nVntzwfnp rzwtnxhvprkcnjcgnVnxkozhzgnp ntjxznyvfqnp nqjcgrm
JtfzhnfqzrznrzxhzfnrxzczrnVnxqjffzhzgnpkhznfqjcnzozh,nikvcinkcnokwbdw 
zckbiqnfvwwnkcznktnkbhnahkgvivkbr,najwajdwznqbrqzrnkxxbhhzg—Vnxjcnxjww
fqzpnckfqvcinzwrz—fqznrfhjciz,ngvss nwvtfnkhnryvpn(Vnfh ntkhnfzhpr!)
vcfknjnrfvwwczrr,njnajbrznktnjwwnwvtz,nfqjfnqjgnckfqvcinfkngknyvfqnfqz
pkhznkhnwzrrnckvrznfqjfnjfnfqznpkpzcfnyznpviqfndznzcijizgnvcnpjuvcinjcg
fqjfnVnxkbwgnqzjhnfqhkbiqnjc ngzzazczgnz.qvwjhjfvkcnkhnebvxuzczg
hzxvfjfvkcnkhnwkbgzhnrfhbpnktnfqznavjckmnFqzcnvfnyjrnfqjfnfqznkfqzhr,
fqznkbfrvgzhr,nyzhznfqzhzmnFqkbiqnfqz nyzhznckfnjcizwr,nfqz n“ajrrzg,”
jrnfqznThzcxqnrj ,nxjbrvcinpz,nyqvwznfqz nrfj zg,nfknfhzpdwznyvfqnfqz
tzjhnktnfqzvhnjgghzrrvcinfknfqzvhn kbcizhnovxfvprnrkpzn zfnpkhz
vctzhcjwnpzrrjiznkhnpkhznovovgnvpjiznfqjcnfqz nqjgnfqkbiqfnikkgnzckbiq
tkhnp rzwtm

Yqjfnvfnyjrnpkrfnvpakrrvdwznfknizfnhvgnktnyjrnfqznxhbzwnvgzjnfqjf,
yqjfzozhnVnqjgnrzzc,nPvwzrnjcgnTwkhjnrjyn_pkhz_—fqvcirnfzhhvdwznjcg
bcibzrrjdwznjcgnfqjfnrahjcinthkpnghzjgtbwnajrrjizrnktnvcfzhxkbhrznvc
fqznajrfmnRbxqnfqvcirncjfbhjww nwztfnkcnfqznrbhtjxz,ntkhnfqznfvpz,nj
xqvwwnyqvxqnyznokxvtzhkbrw ngzcvzgnfqjfnyzntzwf;njcgnyznqjg,njwwnfqhzz,
yvfqnhzazfvfvkc,nikfnvcfknrbxqnrawzcgvgnfhjvcvcinfqjfnyznyzcf,nzjxq
fvpz,njwpkrfnjbfkpjfvxjww ,nfknpjhunfqznxwkrznktnfqznvcxvgzcf,nfqhkbiq
fqznozh nrjpznpkozpzcfrmnVfnyjrnrfhvuvcinktnfqznxqvwghzc,njfnjww
zozcfr,nfknuvrrnpznvcozfzhjfzw nyvfqnjnuvcgnktnyvwgnvhhzwzojcxznjcg
czozhnfkntjvw—kcznkhnfqznkfqzh—ktnfqznahzxvkbrnebzrfvkcnfqjfnqjgnqzwazg
brnfqhkbiqnpjc njnazhvwmn“Yqzcngkn kbnfqvcunqzn_yvww_nxkpz?nGkc’fn kb
fqvcunyzn_kbiqf_nfknyhvfz?”—fqzhznyjrnckfqvcinwvuznfqjfnvcebvh ,nyz
tkbcgnd nz.azhvzcxz,ntkhnxjhh vcinkttnjcnjyuyjhgczrrmn“Qz”nktnxkbhrz
yjrnfqzvhnbcxwznvcnQjhwz nRfhzzf;njcgnyznwvozgnvcnpbxqnahktbrvkcnkt
fqzkh nfqjfnqznpviqfnjfnjc npkpzcfnjhhvoznfknpvciwznvcnkbhnxvhxwzmnVf
yjrnvpakrrvdwznfknqjoznivozcnwzrrnzcxkbhjizpzcfnfqjcnqznqjgngkcznfk
rbxqnjngkxfhvcz,ndbfnvtnyznqjgnckfnqjgnfqzngkxfhvcznfkntjwwndjxunbakc
yznrqkbwgnqjozngzahvozgnzjxqnkfqzhnktnrkpznktnkbhntvczrfnz.qvdvfvkcrm
Qznczozhnyhkfznfknfqzp—fqjfnpj nqjozndzzcnrzwtvrq,ndbfnvfnyjrnjnajhfnkt
fqzntwjffzh nktnqvrnfhbrfnktnpz;ntkhnfqznyj nvcnyqvxqnjnpjcnaj rnqvr
qviqzrfnfhvdbfznfknjnykpjcnvrnjafnfkndzndbfnd nfqznpkhzntzrfjw
xzwzdhjfvkcnktnkcznktnfqznrjxhzgnwjyrnktnqvrnxkptkhf;njcgnVnqzwgnfqjfnV
xjhhvzgnkbfnfqznravhvfnktnfqznawzgiznivozcnckfnfknjaazjwnfknqvpnyqzcnV
wzfnp nxqjhizrnbcgzhrfjcgnfqjfnfqzvhnkycnwzffzhrnyzhzndbfnxqjhpvci
wvfzhjh nz.zhxvrzrmnFqz nyzhznfkkndzjbfvtbwnfkndznakrfzg;nVnuzafnfqzp
p rzwt;nVnqjoznfqzpnjwwnfknfqvrnqkbhmnFqvrnyjrnjnhbwznvcgzzgnyqvxqnkcw 
jggzgnfknfqznrjfvhvxnzttzxfnktnp ndzvcinawvzgnyvfqnfqznrbaakrvfvkcnfqjf
qznpviqfnjfnjc npkpzcfndznjpkcinbrmnVfnyjrnz.jxfw njrnvtnp nxqjhizr
uczynqkynjwpkrfnpkhznjyuyjhgnfqjcnjc fqvcinzwrznfqjfnpviqfndzntkhnpzm
Fqzhznjaazjhrnfknpz,npkhzkozh,njrnVnwkkundjxu,ncknckfznvcnjwwnfqvrnpkhz
z.fhjkhgvcjh nfqjcnfqznpzhzntjxfnfqjf,nvcnravfznktnp nfzcrvkcnjcgnkt
fqzvhnfhvbpaq,nVnczozhnwkrfnajfvzcxznyvfqnfqzpmnJgkhjdwznfqz npbrfnvc
fhbfqnqjozndzzc,nVnckynhztwzxf,nfqjfnVngvgc’fnvcnfqzrzngj rnqjfznfqzp!
Ykbwgnz.jrazhjfvkc,nqkyzozh,nvtnhzwvztnqjgnwkcizhndzzcnakrfakczg,
tvcjww nqjozndzfhj zgnpz?nVfnwvffwznpjffzhr,ntkhnhzwvztnjhhvozgmnVnxjww
vfnhzwvzt,nfqkbiqnvfnyjrnkcw nfqznhzwvztnfqjfnjnrcjandhvcirnfknjnrfhjvc
khnfqzndbhrfnktnjnfqbcgzhrfkhpnfknjngj nktnrbttkxjfvkcmnVfnyjrnjfnwzjrf
xqjciz,njcgnvfnxjpznyvfqnjnhbrqm


.VO

YjwuvcinfknxqbhxqnjnxzhfjvcnRbcgj npkhcvci,nVnqjgnwvffwznPvwzrnjfnp 
rvgznjcgnqvrnrvrfzh,nvcnjgojcxznktnbrnjcgnjfnPhrmnIhkrz’r,nyzwwnvc
rviqfmnVfnyjrnjnxhvra,nxwzjhngj ,nfqzntvhrfnktnvfrnkhgzhntkhnrkpznfvpz;
fqzncviqfnqjgndhkbiqfnjnfkbxqnktnthkrf,njcgnfqznjbfbpcnjvh,ndhviqfnjcg
rqjha,npjgznfqznxqbhxqndzwwrnjwpkrfnij mnVfnyjrnjcnkggnjxxvgzcfnkt
fqkbiqfnfqjfnVnrqkbwgnqjoznqjaazczgnjfnrbxqnjnpkpzcfnfkndznajhfvxbwjhw 
jcgnozh nihjfztbww nrfhbxunyvfqnfqznkdzgvzcxznktnp nwvffwznxqjhizrmnYq 
gvgnfqz nczozhnhzrzcfnp nvcz.khjdwz,np nazhazfbjwnrkxvzf ?nRkpzfqvcinkh
kfqzhnqjgndhkbiqfnczjhzhnqkpznfknpznfqjfnVnqjgnjwwndbfnavcczgnfqzndk 
fknp nrqjywnjcgnfqjf,nvcnfqznyj nkbhnxkpajcvkcrnyzhznpjhrqjwzgndztkhz
pz,nVnpviqfnqjoznjaazjhzgnfknahkovgznjijvcrfnrkpzngjcizhnktnhzdzwwvkcm
Vnyjrnwvuznjnijkwzhnyvfqnjcnz znfknakrrvdwznrbhahvrzrnjcgnzrxjazrmnDbf
jwwnfqvrndzwkcizg—Vnpzjcnfqzvhnpjicvtvxzcfnwvffwznrbhhzcgzh—lbrfnfknfqz
razxvjwnjhhj nktnfqzntjxfrnfqjfnyzhznpkrfnjd rpjwmnFbhczgnkbfntkh
Rbcgj nd nqvrnbcxwz’rnfjvwkh,nyqknqjgnqjgnjnthzznqjcgnjcgnjnckfvkcnkt
ahzff nyjvrfxkjfrnjcgnktnqvrnihjcgnwvffwznjvh,nPvwzr’rnyqkwznfvfwznfk
vcgzazcgzcxz,nfqznhviqfrnktnqvrnrz.njcgnrvfbjfvkc,nyzhznrknrfjpazgnbakc
qvpnfqjfnvtnqznqjgnrbggzcw nrfhbxuntkhnthzzgkpnVnrqkbwgnqjoznqjg
ckfqvcinfknrj mnVnyjrnd nfqznrfhjcizrfnktnxqjcxzrnykcgzhvcinqkynV
rqkbwgnpzzfnqvpnyqzcnfqznhzokwbfvkcnbcpvrfjujdw nkxxbhhzgmnVnxjwwnvfnj
hzokwbfvkcndzxjbrznVnckynrzznqky,nyvfqnfqznykhgnqznrakuz,nfqznxbhfjvc
hkrznkcnfqznwjrfnjxfnktnp nghzjgtbwnghjpj,njcgnfqznxjfjrfhkaqznyjr
ahzxvavfjfzgmn“Wkkunqzhz,np ngzjh,n kbnucky,”nqznxqjhpvciw nrjvg,n“yqzc
vcnfqznykhwg,nawzjrz,njpnVnikvcindjxunfknrxqkkw?”

Fhjcrxhvdzgnqzhznfqznrazzxqnrkbcgrnqjhpwzrrnzckbiq,najhfvxbwjhw njr
bffzhzgnvcnfqznryzzf,nqviq,nxjrbjwnavaznyvfqnyqvxq,njfnjww
vcfzhwkxbfkhr,ndbfnjdkoznjwwnjfnqvrnzfzhcjwnikozhczrr,nqznfqhzynktt
vcfkcjfvkcrnjrnvtnqznyzhznfkrrvcinhkrzrmnFqzhznyjrnrkpzfqvcinvcnfqzp
fqjfnjwyj rnpjgznkczn“xjfxq,”njcgnVnxjbiqf,njfnjc nhjfz,nckynrk
zttzxfbjww nfqjfnVnrfkaazgnjrnrqkhfnjrnvtnkcznktnfqznfhzzrnktnfqznajhu
qjgntjwwzcnjxhkrrnfqznhkjgmnFqzhznyjrnrkpzfqvcinczy,nkcnfqznrakf,
dzfyzzcnbr,njcgnqznyjrnazhtzxfw njyjhznfqjfnVnhzxkicvszgnvf,nfqkbiq,nfk
zcjdwznpznfkngknrk,nqznqjgncknczzgnfknwkkunjnyqvfnwzrrnxjcgvgnjcg
xqjhpvcinfqjcnbrbjwmnVnxkbwgntzzwnvcnqvpnqkynqznjwhzjg ,nthkpnp njf
tvhrfntvcgvcinckfqvcinfknhzaw ,nazhxzvozgnfqznjgojcfjiznqznqjgnijvczgm
Vnyjrnrknrwkynfkntvcgnjc fqvcinfqjfnqznqjgnawzcf nktnfvpz,njtfzhnj
pvcbfz,nfknxkcfvcbznyvfqnqvrnrbiizrfvozndbfnvcxkcxwbrvoznrpvwz:n“ kb
ucky,np ngzjh,nfqjfntkhnjntzwwkynfkndznyvfqnjnwjg n_jwyj r_—!”nQvrn“p 
gzjh”nyjrnxkcrfjcfw nkcnqvrnwvarntkhnpz,njcgnckfqvcinxkbwgnqjoz
z.ahzrrzgnpkhznfqznz.jxfnrqjgznktnfqznrzcfvpzcfnyvfqnyqvxqnVngzrvhzgnfk
vcravhznp nabavwrnfqjcnvfrntkcgntjpvwvjhvf mnVfnyjrnrknhzrazxftbww 
zjr m

Dbf,nkq,nqkynVntzwfnfqjfnjfnahzrzcfnVnpbrfnavxunp nkycnaqhjrzr!nV
hzpzpdzhnfqjf,nfknijvcnfvpz,nVnfhvzgnfknwjbiq,njcgnVnrzzpzgnfknrzznvc
fqzndzjbfvtbwntjxznyvfqnyqvxqnqznyjfxqzgnpznqkynbiw njcgnebzzhnV
wkkuzgmn“Jcgnjwyj rnyvfqnfqznrjpznwjg ?”nVnhzfbhczgm

QznczvfqzhndwjcxqzgnckhnyvcuzgmnFqznyqkwznfqvcinyjrnovhfbjww nkbf
dzfyzzcnbrmn“Jq,nktnxkbhrz,nrqz’rnjnlkww ,n‘azhtzxf’nwjg ;ndbf,njtfzh
jww,nV’pnjntzwwky,ngkc’fn kbnrzz?nfqjf’r—yzww,nizffvcinkcm”

Vnwvcizhzgnfqzhznyvfqnqvpnjcnvcrfjcfnzozhnrknuvcgw mn“ zr,n kb’hz
izffvcinkcm”nKq,ndbfnVntzwfnqzwawzrr!

Vnqjoznuzafnfknfqvrngj nfqznqzjhfdhzjuvcinwvffwznvgzjnktnqkynqznrzzpzg
fknuckynfqjfnjcgnfknawj nyvfqnvfmn“Jcgn kbnxjc’fnrj nV’oznckfndzzc
jytbww nikkg,nxjcn kb?”

Vnwjvgnp nqjcgnkcnqvrnrqkbwgzh,ntkh,nfqkbiqnVntzwfnqkynpbxqndzffzhnvf
ykbwgnqjozndzzcnfknyjwunkc,nVnyjrnckfn zfnebvfznjdwzmn“Ck,nVnxjc’fnrj 
fqjf,nPvwzrm”

“Z.xzafnlbrfnfqjfnkczncviqf,n kbnucky—!”

“Fqjfnkczncviqf?”nVnxkbwgc’fnwkkunjrnrfhjviqfnjrnqzm

“Yq ,nyqzcnVnyzcfngkyc—yzcfnkbfnktnfqznqkbrzm”

“Kq,n zrmnDbfnVntkhizfnyqjfn kbngvgnvfntkhm”

“ kbntkhizf?”—qznrakuznyvfqnfqznryzzfnz.fhjojijcxznktnxqvwgvrq
hzahkjxqmn“Yq ,nvfnyjrnfknrqkyn kbnVnxkbwg!”

“Kq,n zr,n kbnxkbwgm”

“JcgnVnxjcnjijvcm”

VntzwfnfqjfnVnpviqf,nazhqjar,njtfzhnjww,nrbxxzzgnvcnuzzavcinp nyvfr
jdkbfnpzmn“Xzhfjvcw mnDbfn kbnykc’fm”

“Ck,nckfn_fqjf_njijvcmnVfnyjrnckfqvcim”

“Vfnyjrnckfqvci,”nVnrjvgmn“Dbfnyznpbrfniknkcm”

Qznhzrbpzgnkbhnyjwunyvfqnpz,najrrvcinqvrnqjcgnvcfknp njhpmn“Fqzcnyqzc
_jp_nVnikvcindjxu?”

Vnykhz,nvcnfbhcvcinvfnkozh,np npkrfnhzrakcrvdwznjvhmn“Yzhzn kbnozh 
qjaa njfnrxqkkw?”

Qznlbrfnxkcrvgzhzgmn“Kq,nV’pnqjaa nzckbiqnjc yqzhz!”

“Yzww,nfqzc,”nVnebjozhzg,n“vtn kb’hznlbrfnjrnqjaa nqzhz—!”

“Jq,ndbfnfqjfnvrc’fnzozh fqvci!nKtnxkbhrzn_ kb_nuckynjnwkf—”

“Dbfn kbnqvcfnfqjfn kbnuckynjwpkrfnjrnpbxq?”nVnhvruzgnjrnqznajbrzgm

“CkfnqjwtnVnyjcfnfk!”nPvwzrnqkczrfw nahktzrrzgmn“Dbfnvfnvrc’fnrknpbxq
fqjfm”

“Yqjfnvrnvf,nfqzc?”

“Yzww—Vnyjcfnfknrzznpkhznwvtzm”

“Vnrzz;nVnrzzm”nYznqjgnjhhvozgnyvfqvcnrviqfnktnfqznxqbhxqnjcgnkt
ojhvkbrnazhrkcr,nvcxwbgvcinrzozhjwnktnfqznqkbrzqkwgnktnDw ,nkcnfqzvh
yj nfknvfnjcgnxwbrfzhzgnjdkbfnfqzngkkhnfknrzznbrniknvcmnVnebvxuzczgnkbh
rfza;nVnyjcfzgnfknizfnfqzhzndztkhznfqznebzrfvkcndzfyzzcnbrnkazczgnba
pbxqntbhfqzh;nVnhztwzxfzgnqbcihvw nfqjf,ntkhnpkhznfqjcnjcnqkbh,nqz
ykbwgnqjoznfkndznrvwzcf;njcgnVnfqkbiqfnyvfqnzco nktnfqznxkpajhjfvoz
gbrunktnfqznazynjcgnktnfqznjwpkrfnravhvfbjwnqzwanktnfqznqjrrkxunkc
yqvxqnVnpviqfndzcgnp nuczzrmnVnrzzpzgnwvfzhjww nfkndznhbccvcinjnhjxz
yvfqnrkpznxkctbrvkcnfknyqvxqnqznyjrnjdkbfnfknhzgbxznpz,ndbfnVntzwfnfqjf
qznqjgnikfnvcntvhrfnyqzc,ndztkhznyznqjgnzozcnzcfzhzgnfqznxqbhxq jhg,nqz
fqhzynkbf—

“Vnyjcfnp nkycnrkhf!”

Vfnwvfzhjww npjgznpzndkbcgntkhyjhgmn“Fqzhznjhznckfnpjc nktn kbhnkyc
rkhf,nPvwzr!”nVnwjbiqzgmn“BcwzrrnazhqjarngzjhnwvffwznTwkhj!”

“ kbnhzjww nxkpajhznpznfknjndjd nivhw?”

Fqvrntkbcgnpznrvcibwjhw nyzjumn“Gkc’fn kb,nfqzc,n_wkoz_nkbhnryzzf
Twkhj?”

“VtnVngvgc’f—jcgn kb,nfkk;nvtnVngvgc’f—!”nqznhzazjfzgnjrnvtnhzfhzjfvci
tkhnjnlbpa,n zfnwzjovcinqvrnfqkbiqfnrknbctvcvrqzgnfqjf,njtfzhnyznqjg
xkpznvcfknfqznijfz,njckfqzhnrfka,nyqvxqnqznvpakrzgnkcnpznd nfqz
ahzrrbhznktnqvrnjhp,nqjgndzxkpznvczovfjdwzmnPhrmnIhkrznjcgnTwkhjnqjg
ajrrzgnvcfknfqznxqbhxq,nfqznkfqzhnykhrqvaazhrnqjgntkwwkyzg,njcgnyz
yzhz,ntkhnfqznpvcbfz,njwkcznjpkcinfqznkwg,nfqvxunihjozrmnYznqjgnajbrzg,
kcnfqznajfqnthkpnfqznijfz,nd njnwky,nkdwkci,nfjdwzwvuznfkpdm

“ zr,nvtn kbngvgc’f—?”

Qznwkkuzg,nyqvwznVnyjvfzg,njfnfqznihjozrmn“Yzww,n kbnuckynyqjf!”nDbfnqz
gvgc’fnpkoz,njcgnqznahzrzcfw nahkgbxzgnrkpzfqvcinfqjfnpjgznpznghka
rfhjviqfngkycnkcnfqznrfkcznrwjd,njrnvtnrbggzcw nfknhzrfmn“Gkzrnp nbcxwz
fqvcunyqjfn_ kb_nfqvcu?”

Vnpjhuzgw nhzrfzgmn“Qkyngkn kbnuckynyqjfnVnfqvcu?”

“Jq,nyzww,nktnxkbhrznVngkc’f;ntkhnvfnrfhvuzrnpzn kbnczozhnfzwwnpzmnDbf
Vnpzjcngkzrn_qz_nucky?”

“Uckynyqjf,nPvwzr?”

“Yq ,nfqznyj nV’pnikvcinkcm”

Vnazhxzvozgnebvxuw nzckbiqnfqjfnVnxkbwgnpjuz,nfknfqvrnvcebvh ,nck
jcryzhnfqjfnykbwgnckfnvcokwoznrkpzfqvcinktnjnrjxhvtvxznktnp nzpawk zhm
 zfnvfnjaazjhzgnfknpznfqjfnyznyzhznjww,njfnDw ,nrbttvxvzcfw nrjxhvtvxzg
fknpjuznfqjfnozcvjwmn“Vngkc’fnfqvcun kbhnbcxwznpbxqnxjhzrm”

Pvwzr,nkcnfqvr,nrfkkgnwkkuvcinjfnpzmn“Fqzcngkc’fn kbnfqvcunqznxjcndz
pjgznfk?”

“Vcnyqjfnyj ?”

“Yq ,nd nqvrnxkpvcingkycm”

“Dbfnyqk’wwnizfnqvpnfknxkpzngkyc?”

“_V_nyvww!”nfqzndk nrjvgnyvfqnz.fhjkhgvcjh ndhviqfczrrnjcgnzpaqjrvrmnQz
ijoznpznjckfqzhnwkkunxqjhizgnyvfqnfqjfnz.ahzrrvkcnjcgnfqzcnpjhxqzgnktt
jwkcznvcfknxqbhxqm


.O

Fqzndbrvczrrnyjrnahjxfvxjww nrzffwzgnthkpnfqznpkpzcfnVnczozhntkwwkyzg
qvpmnVfnyjrnjnavfvtbwnrbhhzcgzhnfknjivfjfvkc,ndbfnp ndzvcinjyjhznkt
fqvrnqjgnrkpzqkyncknakyzhnfknhzrfkhznpzmnVnkcw nrjfnfqzhznkcnp nfkpd
jcgnhzjgnvcfknyqjfnp nwvffwznthvzcgnqjgnrjvgnfknpznfqzntbwwczrrnktnvfr
pzjcvci;nd nfqznfvpznVnqjgnihjrazgnfqznyqkwznktnyqvxqnVnqjgnjwrk
zpdhjxzg,ntkhnjdrzcxz,nfqznahzfz.fnfqjfnVnyjrnjrqjpzgnfknkttzhnp 
abavwrnjcgnfqznhzrfnktnfqznxkcihzijfvkcnrbxqnjcnz.jpawznktngzwj mnYqjf
Vnrjvgnfknp rzwtnjdkoznjwwnyjrnfqjfnPvwzrnqjgnikfnrkpzfqvcinkbfnktnpz
jcgnfqjfnfqznahkktnktnvf,ntkhnqvp,nykbwgndznlbrfnfqvrnjyuyjhgnxkwwjarzm
QznqjgnikfnkbfnktnpznfqjfnfqzhznyjrnrkpzfqvcinVnyjrnpbxqnjthjvgnktnjcg
fqjfnqznrqkbwgnahkdjdw ndznjdwznfknpjuznbrznktnp ntzjhnfknijvc,ntkhnqvr
kycnabhakrz,npkhznthzzgkpmnP ntzjhnyjrnktnqjovcinfkngzjwnyvfqnfqz
vcfkwzhjdwznebzrfvkcnktnfqznihkbcgrnktnqvrngvrpvrrjwnthkpnrxqkkw,ntkh
fqjfnyjrnhzjww ndbfnfqznebzrfvkcnktnfqznqkhhkhrnijfqzhzgndzqvcgmnFqjf
qvrnbcxwznrqkbwgnjhhvoznfknfhzjfnyvfqnpznktnfqzrznfqvcirnyjrnjnrkwbfvkc
fqjf,nrfhvxfw nrazjuvci,nVnkbiqfnckynfknqjozngzrvhzgnfkndhvcinkc;ndbfnV
xkbwgnrknwvffwzntjxznfqznbiwvczrrnjcgnfqznajvcnktnvfnfqjfnVnrvpaw 
ahkxhjrfvcjfzgnjcgnwvozgnthkpnqjcgnfknpkbfqmnFqzndk ,nfknp ngzza
gvrxkpakrbhz,nyjrnvppzcrzw nvcnfqznhviqf,nyjrnvcnjnakrvfvkcnfknrj nfk
pz:n“Zvfqzhn kbnxwzjhnbanyvfqnp nibjhgvjcnfqznp rfzh nktnfqvr
vcfzhhbafvkcnktnp nrfbgvzr,nkhn kbnxzjrznfknz.azxfnpznfknwzjgnyvfqn kb
jnwvtznfqjf’rnrknbccjfbhjwntkhnjndk m”nYqjfnyjrnrknbccjfbhjwntkhnfqz
ajhfvxbwjhndk nVnyjrnxkcxzhczgnyvfqnyjrnfqvrnrbggzcnhzozwjfvkcnktnj
xkcrxvkbrczrrnjcgnjnawjcm

Fqjfnyjrnyqjfnhzjww nkozhxjpznpz,nyqjfnahzozcfzgnp nikvcinvcmnVnyjwuzg
hkbcgnfqznxqbhxq,nqzrvfjfvci,nqkozhvci;nVnhztwzxfzgnfqjfnVnqjgnjwhzjg ,
yvfqnqvp,nqbhfnp rzwtndz kcgnhzajvhmnFqzhztkhznVnxkbwgnajfxqnba
ckfqvci,njcgnvfnyjrnfkknz.fhzpznjcnzttkhfnfknrebzzszndzrvgznqvpnvcfk
fqznazy:nqznykbwgndznrknpbxqnpkhznrbhznfqjcnzozhnfknajrrnqvrnjhpnvcfk
pvcznjcgnpjuznpznrvfnfqzhzntkhnjcnqkbhnvcnxwkrz,nrvwzcfnxkcfjxfnyvfq
qvrnxkppzcfjh nkcnkbhnfjwumnTkhnfqzntvhrfnpvcbfznrvcxznqvrnjhhvojwnV
yjcfzgnfknizfnjyj nthkpnqvpmnJrnVnajbrzgndzczjfqnfqznqviqnzjrfnyvcgky
jcgnwvrfzczgnfknfqznrkbcgrnktnykhrqva,nVnyjrnfjuzcnyvfqnjcnvpabwrznfqjf
pviqfnpjrfzhnpz,nVntzwf,nxkpawzfzw nrqkbwgnVnivoznvfnfqznwzjrf
zcxkbhjizpzcfmnVnpviqfnzjrvw nabfnjcnzcgnfknp nahzgvxjpzcfnd nizffvci
jyj njwfkizfqzhmnQzhznyjrnp nxqjcxz;nfqzhznyjrncknkcznfknrfkanpz;nV
xkbwgnivoznfqznyqkwznfqvcinba—fbhcnp ndjxunjcgnhzfhzjfmnVfnyjrnkcw nj
ebzrfvkcnktnqbhh vcinjijvc,ntkhnjntzynahzajhjfvkcr,nfknfqznqkbrznyqvxq
fqznjffzcgjcxznjfnxqbhxqnktnrknpjc nktnfqznrzhojcfrnykbwgnahjxfvxjww 
qjoznwztfnbckxxbavzgmnCknkcz,nvcnrqkhf,nxkbwgndwjpznpznvtnVnrqkbwgnlbrf
ghvozngzrazhjfzw nkttmnYqjfnyjrnvfnfknizfnjyj nvtnVnikfnjyj nkcw nfvww
gvcczh?nFqjfnykbwgndznvcnjnxkbawznktnqkbhr,njfnfqznzcgnktnyqvxq—Vnqjg
fqznjxbfznahzovrvkc—p nwvffwznabavwrnykbwgnawj njfnvcckxzcfnykcgzh
jdkbfnp nckcjaazjhjcxznvcnfqzvhnfhjvcm

“Yqjfn_gvg_n kbngk,n kbncjbiqf ,ndjgnfqvci?nYq nvcnfqznykhwg,nfknykhh 
brnrk—jcgnfjuznkbhnfqkbiqfrnktt,nfkk,ngkc’fn kbnucky?—gvgn kbngzrzhfnbr
jfnfqznozh ngkkh?”nVnxkbwgc’fnpzzfnrbxqnebzrfvkcrnckh,njrnfqz njruzg
fqzp,nfqzvhntjwrznwvffwznwkozw nz zr;n zfnvfnyjrnjwwnrknz.jxfw nyqjfnV
rqkbwgnqjoznfknpzzfnfqjf,njrnfqznahkrazxfnihzynrqjhanfknpz,nVnjfnwjrf
wzfnp rzwtnikm

Vnikf,nrkntjhnjrnfqznvppzgvjfznpkpzcfnyjrnxkcxzhczg,njyj ;nVnxjpz
rfhjviqfnkbfnktnfqznxqbhxq jhgnjcg,nfqvcuvcinqjhg,nhzfhjxzgnp nrfzar
fqhkbiqnfqznajhumnVfnrzzpzgnfknpznfqjfnd nfqznfvpznVnhzjxqzgnfqznqkbrz
Vnqjgnpjgznbanp npvcgnVnykbwgntw mnFqznRbcgj nrfvwwczrrndkfqnktnfqz
jaahkjxqzrnjcgnktnfqznvcfzhvkh,nvcnyqvxqnVnpzfncknkcz,ntjvhw nz.xvfzg
pznyvfqnjnrzcrznktnkaakhfbcvf mnYzhznVnfknizfnkttnebvxuw ,nfqvrnyj ,nV
rqkbwgnizfnkttnyvfqkbfnjnrxzcz,nyvfqkbfnjnykhgmnP nebvxuczrrnykbwgnqjoz
fkndznhzpjhujdwz,nqkyzozh,njcgnfqznebzrfvkcnktnjnxkcoz jcxznyjrnfqz
ihzjfnkcznfknrzffwzmnFkhpzcfzg,nvcnfqznqjww,nyvfqngvttvxbwfvzrnjcg
kdrfjxwzr,nVnhzpzpdzhnrvcuvcingkycnjfnfqzntkkfnktnfqz
rfjvhxjrz—rbggzcw nxkwwjarvcinfqzhznkcnfqznwkyzrfnrfzanjcgnfqzc,nyvfqnj
hzobwrvkc,nhzxjwwvcinfqjfnvfnyjrnz.jxfw nyqzhznpkhznfqjcnjnpkcfq
dztkhz,nvcnfqzngjhuczrrnktncviqfnjcgnlbrfnrkndkyzgnyvfqnzovwnfqvcir,nV
qjgnrzzcnfqznrazxfzhnktnfqznpkrfnqkhhvdwznktnykpzcmnJfnfqvrnVnyjrnjdwz
fknrfhjviqfzcnp rzwt;nVnyzcfnfqznhzrfnktnfqznyj nba;nVnpjgz,nvcnp 
dzyvwgzhpzcf,ntkhnfqznrxqkkwhkkp,nyqzhznfqzhznyzhznkdlzxfrndzwkcivcinfk
pznfqjfnVnrqkbwgnqjoznfknfjuzmnDbfnVnkazczgnfqzngkkhnfkntvcgnjijvc,nvc
jntwjrq,np nz zrnbcrzjwzgmnVcnfqznahzrzcxznktnyqjfnVnrjynVnhzzwzg
rfhjviqfndjxunbakcnp nhzrvrfjcxzm

Rzjfzgnjfnp nkycnfjdwznvcnxwzjhnckkcgj nwviqfnVnrjynjnazhrkcnyqkp,
yvfqkbfnp nahzovkbrnz.azhvzcxz,nVnrqkbwgnqjoznfjuzcnjfnfqzntvhrfndwbrq
tkhnrkpznqkbrzpjvgnyqknpviqfnqjoznrfj zgnjfnqkpznfknwkkunjtfzhnfqz
awjxznjcgnyqk,njojvwvcinqzhrzwtnktnhjhznhzwvztnthkpnkdrzhojfvkcnjcgnkt
fqznrxqkkwhkkpnfjdwznjcgnp nazcr,nvcu,njcgnajazh,nqjgnjaawvzgnqzhrzwt
fknfqznxkcrvgzhjdwznzttkhfnktnjnwzffzhnfknqzhnryzzfqzjhfmnFqzhznyjrnjc
zttkhfnvcnfqznyj nfqjf,nyqvwznqzhnjhprnhzrfzgnkcnfqznfjdwz,nqzhnqjcgr
yvfqnzovgzcfnyzjhvczrrnrbaakhfzgnqzhnqzjg;ndbfnjfnfqznpkpzcfnVnfkku
fqvrnvcnVnqjgnjwhzjg ndzxkpznjyjhznfqjf,nvcnravfznktnp nzcfhjcxz,nqzh
jffvfbgznrfhjcizw nazhrvrfzgmnFqzcnvfnyjr—yvfqnfqznozh njxfnktnvfr
jcckbcxvcinvfrzwt—fqjfnqzhnvgzcfvf ntwjhzgnbanvcnjnxqjciznktnakrfbhzm
Rqznhkrz,nckfnjrnvtnrqznqjgnqzjhgnpz,ndbfnyvfqnjcnvcgzrxhvdjdwznihjcg
pzwjcxqkw nktnvcgvttzhzcxznjcgngzfjxqpzcf,njcg,nyvfqvcnjngkszcntzzfnkt
pz,nrfkkgnfqzhznjrnp novwznahzgzxzrrkhmnGvrqkckhzgnjcgnfhjivx,nrqznyjr
jwwndztkhznpz;ndbfnzozcnjrnVntv.zgnjcg,ntkhnpzpkh ,nrzxbhzgnvf,nfqz
jytbwnvpjiznajrrzgnjyj mnGjhunjrnpvgcviqfnvcnqzhndwjxunghzrr,nqzh
qjiijhgndzjbf njcgnqzhnbcbffzhjdwznykz,nrqznqjgnwkkuzgnjfnpznwkci
zckbiqnfknjaazjhnfknrj nfqjfnqzhnhviqfnfknrvfnjfnp nfjdwznyjrnjrnikkg
jrnpvcznfknrvfnjfnqzhrmnYqvwznfqzrznvcrfjcfrnwjrfzg,nvcgzzg,nVnqjgnfqz
z.fhjkhgvcjh nxqvwwnktntzzwvcinfqjfnvfnyjrnVnyqknyjrnfqznvcfhbgzhmnVf
yjrnjrnjnyvwgnahkfzrfnjijvcrfnvfnfqjf,njxfbjww njgghzrrvcinqzh—“ kb
fzhhvdwz,npvrzhjdwznykpjc!”—Vnqzjhgnp rzwtndhzjunvcfknjnrkbcgnfqjf,nd 
fqznkazcngkkh,nhjcinfqhkbiqnfqznwkcinajrrjiznjcgnfqznzpaf nqkbrzmnRqz
wkkuzgnjfnpznjrnvtnrqznqzjhgnpz,ndbfnVnqjgnhzxkozhzgnp rzwtnjcgnxwzjhzg
fqznjvhmnFqzhznyjrnckfqvcinvcnfqznhkkpnfqzncz.fnpvcbfzndbfnfqznrbcrqvcz
jcgnjnrzcrznfqjfnVnpbrfnrfj m


.OV

Vnqjgnrknazhtzxfw nz.azxfzgnfqjfnfqznhzfbhcnktnp nabavwrnykbwgndz
pjhuzgnd njngzpkcrfhjfvkcnfqjfnVnyjrnthzrqw nbarzfnjfnqjovcinfknfjuz
vcfknjxxkbcfnfqjfnfqz nyzhzngbpdnjdkbfnp njdrzcxzmnVcrfzjgnktnijvw 
gzckbcxvcinjcgnxjhzrrvcinpz,nfqz npjgzncknjwwbrvkcnfknp nqjovcintjvwzg
fqzp,njcgnVnyjrnwztf,ntkhnfqznfvpz,nkcnazhxzvovcinfqjfnrqznfkknrjvg
ckfqvci,nfknrfbg nPhrmnIhkrz’rnkggntjxzmnVngvgnfqvrnfknrbxqnabhakrz
fqjfnVnpjgznrbhznfqz nqjgnvcnrkpznyj ndhvdzgnqzhnfknrvwzcxz;njnrvwzcxz
fqjf,nqkyzozh,nVnykbwgnzcijiznfkndhzjungkycnkcnfqzntvhrfnahvojfz
kaakhfbcvf mnFqvrnkaakhfbcvf nxjpzndztkhznfzj:nVnrzxbhzgntvoznpvcbfzr
yvfqnqzhnvcnfqznqkbrzuzzazh’rnhkkp,nyqzhz,nvcnfqznfyvwviqf,njpvgnj
rpzwwnktnwjfzw ndjuzgndhzjg,ndbfnyvfqnfqznawjxznjwwnryzafnjcg
ijhcvrqzg,nVntkbcgnqzhnrvffvcinvcnajvczgnawjxvgvf ndztkhznfqzntvhzmnRk
Vnrzznqzhnrfvww,nrknVnrzznqzhndzrf:ntjxvcinfqzntwjpznthkpnqzhnrfhjviqf
xqjvhnvcnfqzngbru ,nrqvcvcinhkkp,njnwjhiznxwzjcnvpjiznktnfqzn“abf
jyj ”—ktnghjyzhrnxwkrzgnjcgnwkxuzgnjcgnhzrfnyvfqkbfnjnhzpzg m

“Kq,n zr,nfqz njruzgnpznfknrj nckfqvci;njcgnfknawzjrznfqzp—rknwkcinjr
fqz nyzhznfqzhz—ktnxkbhrznVnahkpvrzgmnDbfnyqjfnqjgnqjaazczgnfkn kb?”

“Vnkcw nyzcfnyvfqn kbntkhnfqznyjwu,”nVnrjvgmn“Vnqjgnfqzcnfknxkpzndjxu
fknpzzfnjnthvzcgm”

Rqznrqkyzgnqzhnrbhahvrzmn“Jnthvzcg—_ kb?_”

“Kq,n zr,nVnqjoznjnxkbawz!”nVnwjbiqzgmn“Dbfngvgnfqznxqvwghzcnivozn kbnj
hzjrkc?”

“Tkhnckfnjwwbgvcinfkn kbhnwzjovcinbr?n zr;nfqz nrjvgn kbnykbwgnwvuznvf
dzffzhmnGkn kbnwvuznvfndzffzh?”

P ntjxznqjgnpjgznqzhnhbztbwmn“Ck,nVnwvuznvfnykhrz!”nDbfnjtfzhnjc
vcrfjcfnVnjggzg:n“Gvgnfqz nrj nyq nVnrqkbwgnwvuznvfndzffzh?”

“Ck;nPjrfzhnPvwzrnkcw nrjvg,n‘Yznpbrfngknckfqvcindbfnyqjfnrqznwvuzr!’”

“VnyvrqnvcgzzgnqznykbwgmnJcgnyqjfngvgnTwkhjnrj ?”

“PvrrnTwkhjnyjrnfkknryzzfmnRqznrjvg,n‘Kq,nktnxkbhrz,nktnxkbhrz!’—jcgnV
rjvgnfqznrjpzm”

Vnfqkbiqfnjnpkpzcfmn“ kbnyzhznfkknryzzf,nfkk—Vnxjcnqzjhn kbnjwwmnDbf
ckczfqzwzrr,ndzfyzzcnPvwzrnjcgnpz,nvf’rnckynjwwnkbfm”

“Jwwnkbf?”nP nxkpajcvkcnrfjhzgmn“Dbfnyqjf,npvrr?”

“Zozh fqvcimnVfngkzrc’fnpjffzhmnV’oznpjgznbanp npvcgmnVnxjpznqkpz,np 
gzjh,”nVnyzcfnkc,n“tkhnjnfjwunyvfqnPvrrnLzrrzwm”

Vnqjgnd nfqvrnfvpzntkhpzgnfqznqjdvfnktnqjovcinPhrmnIhkrznwvfzhjww nyzww
vcnqjcgnvcnjgojcxznktnp nrkbcgvcinfqjfnckfz;nrknfqjfnzozcncky,njrnrqz
dhjozw ndwvcuzgnbcgzhnfqznrvicjwnktnp nykhg,nVnxkbwgnuzzanqzh
xkpajhjfvozw ntvhpmn“Jnfjwu!nGkn kbnpzjcnrqznrakuz?”

“VfnxjpznfknfqjfmnVntkbcgnqzh,nkcnp nhzfbhc,nvcnfqznrxqkkwhkkpm”

“Jcgnyqjfngvgnrqznrj ?”nVnxjcnqzjhnfqznikkgnykpjcnrfvww,njcgnfqznxjcgkh
ktnqzhnrfbaztjxfvkcm

“Fqjfnrqznrbttzhrnfqznfkhpzcfr—!”

Vfnyjrnfqvr,nktnjnfhbfq,nfqjfnpjgznqzh,njrnrqzntvwwzgnkbfnp navxfbhz,
ijazmn“Gkn kbnpzjc,”nrqzntjwfzhzg,n“—ktnfqznwkrf?”

“KtnfqznwkrfmnKtnfqzngjpczgmnJcgnfqjf’rnyq ,nfknrqjhznfqzp—”nVntjwfzhzg
p rzwtnyvfqnfqznqkhhkhnktnvfm

Dbfnp nxkpajcvkc,nyvfqnwzrrnvpjivcjfvkc,nuzafnpznbamn“Fknrqjhznfqzp—?”

“RqznyjcfrnTwkhjm”nPhrmnIhkrznpviqf,njrnVnijoznvfnfknqzh,ntjvhw nqjoz
tjwwzcnjyj nthkpnpznqjgnVnckfndzzcnahzajhzgmnVnrfvwwnqzwgnqzhnfqzhz,nfk
rqkynVnyjrmn“JrnV’oznfkwgn kb,nqkyzozh,nvfngkzrc’fnpjffzhm”

“Dzxjbrzn kb’oznpjgznban kbhnpvcg?nDbfnfknyqjf?”

“Fknzozh fqvcim”

“Jcgnyqjfngkn kbnxjwwn‘zozh fqvci’?”

“Yq ,nrzcgvcintkhnfqzvhnbcxwzm”

“Kq,npvrr,nvcnavf ngk,”np nthvzcgndhkuznkbfmn“jq,ndbfnVnyvww,nVn_yvww!_
Vnrzznvf’rnfqznkcw nyj mnYqjf’rn‘kbf,’njrnVnfkwgn kb,nyvfqnPvwzrnvr
fqjfnvtnqznfqvcurnV’pnjthjvgnfk—jcgnqjrnvgzjrnktnyqjfnqznijvcrnd 
fqjf—qznrqjwwnrzznqz’rnpvrfjuzcmn zr,n zr;nqvrnbcxwznrqjwwnqjoznvfnqzhz
thkpnpznkcnfqznrakfn(jcgndztkhznfqzndk nqvprzwt,nvtnczxzrrjh )nfqjfnvt
V’pnfkndznhzahkjxqzgnyvfqnqjovcingkcznckfqvcinjijvcnjdkbfnpkhznrxqkkw—”

“ zr,npvrr—”np nxkpajcvkcnahzrrzgnpzm

“Yzww,nfqzhz’rnfqjfnjytbwnhzjrkcm”

Fqzhznyzhznckynxwzjhw nrknpjc nktnfqzrzntkhnp nakkhnxkwwzjibznfqjfnrqz
yjrnz.xbrjdwzntkhndzvcinojibzmn“Dbf—j—yqvxq?”

“Yq ,nfqznwzffzhnthkpnqvrnkwgnawjxzm”

“ kb’wwnrqkynvfnfknfqznpjrfzh?”

“Vnkbiqfnfknqjozngkcznrknkcnfqznvcrfjcfm”

“Kq,nck!”nrjvgnPhrmnIhkrznyvfqngzxvrvkcm

“V’wwnabfnvfndztkhznqvp,”nVnyzcfnkcnvcz.khjdw ,n“fqjfnVnxjc’fnbcgzhfjuz
fknykhunfqznebzrfvkcnkcndzqjwtnktnjnxqvwgnyqknqjrndzzcnz.azwwzg—”

“Tkhnyz’oznczozhnvcnfqznwzjrfnuckycnyqjf!”nPhrmnIhkrzngzxwjhzgm

“TkhnyvxuzgczrrmnTkhnyqjfnzwrz—yqzcnqz’rnrknxwzozhnjcgndzjbfvtbwnjcg
azhtzxf?nVrnqznrfbavg?nVrnqznbcfvg ?nVrnqznvctvhp?nVrnqznvww-cjfbhzg?
Qz’rnz.ebvrvfz—rknvfnxjcndznkcw n_fqjf_;njcgnfqjfnykbwgnkazcnbanfqz
yqkwznfqvcimnJtfzhnjww,”nVnrjvg,n“vf’rnfqzvhnbcxwz’rntjbwfmnVtnqznwztf
qzhznrbxqnazkawz—!”

“Qzngvgc’fnhzjww nvcnfqznwzjrfnuckynfqzpmnFqzntjbwf’rnpvczm”nRqznqjg
fbhczgnebvfznajwzm

“Yzww,n kbnrqjc’fnrbttzh,”nVnjcryzhzgm

“Fqznxqvwghzcnrqjc’f!”nrqznzpaqjfvxjww nhzfbhczgm

Vnyjrnrvwzcfnjyqvwz;nyznwkkuzgnjfnzjxqnkfqzhmn“FqzcnyqjfnjpnVnfknfzww
qvp?”

“ kbnczzgc’fnfzwwnqvpnjc fqvcimn_V’ww_nfzwwnqvpm”

Vnpzjrbhzgnfqvrmn“Gkn kbnpzjcn kb’wwnyhvfz—?”nHzpzpdzhvcinrqznxkbwgc’f,
Vnxjbiqfnp rzwtnbamn“Qkyngkn kbnxkppbcvxjfz?”

“Vnfzwwnfqzndjvwvttmn_Qz_nyhvfzrm”

“Jcgnrqkbwgn kbnwvuznqvpnfknyhvfznkbhnrfkh ?”

P nebzrfvkcnqjgnjnrjhxjrfvxntkhxznfqjfnVnqjgnckfntbww nvcfzcgzg,njcgnvf
pjgznqzh,njtfzhnjnpkpzcf,nvcxkcrzebzcfw ndhzjungkycmnFqznfzjhrnyzhz
jijvcnvcnqzhnz zrmn“Jq,npvrr,n_ kb_nyhvfz!”

“Yzww—fkcviqf,”nVnjfnwjrfnjcryzhzg;njcgnkcnfqvrnyznrzajhjfzgm


.OVV

Vnyzcfnrkntjh,nvcnfqznzozcvci,njrnfknpjuznjndzivccvcimnFqznyzjfqzhnqjg
xqjcizgndjxu,njnihzjfnyvcgnyjrnjdhkjg,njcgndzczjfqnfqznwjpa,nvcnp 
hkkp,nyvfqnTwkhjnjfnazjxzndzrvgznpz,nVnrjfntkhnjnwkcinfvpzndztkhznj
dwjcunrqzzfnktnajazhnjcgnwvrfzczgnfknfqznwjrqnktnfqznhjvcnjcgnfqz
djffzhnktnfqznibrfrmnTvcjww nVnyzcfnkbf,nfjuvcinjnxjcgwz;nVnxhkrrzgnfqz
ajrrjiznjcgnwvrfzczgnjnpvcbfznjfnPvwzr’rngkkhmnYqjf,nbcgzhnp nzcgwzrr
kdrzrrvkc,nVnqjgndzzcnvpazwwzgnfknwvrfzcntkhnyjrnrkpzndzfhj jwnktnqvr
ckfndzvcinjfnhzrf,njcgnVnahzrzcfw nxjbiqfnkcz,ndbfnckfnvcnfqzntkhpnV
qjgnz.azxfzgmnQvrnokvxznfvcuwzgnkbfmn“Vnrj ,n kbnfqzhz—xkpznvcm”nVfnyjr
jnijvzf nvcnfqzniwkkp!

Vnyzcfnvcnyvfqnp nwviqfnjcgntkbcgnqvp,nvcndzg,nozh nyvgznjyjuz,ndbf
ozh npbxqnjfnqvrnzjrzmn“Yzww,nyqjfnjhzn_ kb_nbanfk?”nqznjruzgnyvfqnj
ihjxznktnrkxvjdvwvf nvcnyqvxqnvfnkxxbhhzgnfknpznfqjfnPhrmnIhkrz,nqjg
rqzndzzcnahzrzcf,npviqfnqjoznwkkuzgnvcnojvcntkhnahkktnfqjfnjc fqvcinyjr
“kbfm”

Vnrfkkgnkozhnqvpnyvfqnp nxjcgwzmn“Qkyngvgn kbnuckynVnyjrnfqzhz?”

“Yq ,nktnxkbhrznVnqzjhgn kbmnGvgn kbntjcx n kbnpjgzncknckvrz?n kb’hz
wvuznjnfhkkanktnxjojwh !”nqzndzjbfvtbww nwjbiqzgm

“Fqzcn kbnyzhzc’fnjrwzza?”

“Ckfnpbxq!nVnwvznjyjuznjcgnfqvcum”

Vnqjgnabfnp nxjcgwz,ngzrviczgw ,njnrqkhfnyj nktt,njcgnfqzc,njrnqznqzwg
kbfnqvrnthvzcgw nkwgnqjcgnfknpz,nqjgnrjfngkycnkcnfqznzgiznktnqvrndzgm
“Yqjfnvrnvf,”nVnjruzg,n“fqjfn kbnfqvcunkt?”

“Yqjfnvcnfqznykhwg,np ngzjh,ndbfn_ kb?_”

“Jq,nfqznahvgznVnfjuznvcn kbhnjaahzxvjfvkcngkzrc’fnvcrvrfnkcnfqjf!nV
qjgnrkntjhnhjfqzhn kbnrwzafm”

“Yzww,nVnfqvcunjwrk,n kbnucky,nktnfqvrnebzzhndbrvczrrnktnkbhrm”

Vnpjhuzgnfqznxkkwczrrnktnqvrntvhpnwvffwznqjcgmn“Ktnyqjfnebzzhndbrvczrr,
Pvwzr?”

“Yq ,nfqznyj n kbndhvcinpznbamnJcgnjwwnfqznhzrf!”

Vntjvhw nqzwgnp ndhzjfqnjnpvcbfz,njcgnzozcnthkpnp niwvppzhvcinfjazh
fqzhznyjrnwviqfnzckbiqnfknrqkynqkynqznrpvwzgnbanjfnpznthkpnqvrnavwwkym
“Yqjfngkn kbnpzjcnd njwwnfqznhzrf?”

“Kq,n kbnucky,n kbnucky!”

Vnxkbwgnrj nckfqvcintkhnjnpvcbfz,nfqkbiqnVntzwf,njrnVnqzwgnqvrnqjcgnjcg
kbhnz zrnxkcfvcbzgnfknpzzf,nfqjfnp nrvwzcxznqjgnjwwnfqznjvhnkt
jgpvffvcinqvrnxqjhiznjcgnfqjfnckfqvcinvcnfqznyqkwznykhwgnktnhzjwvf nyjr
azhqjarnjfnfqjfnpkpzcfnrkntjdbwkbrnjrnkbhnjxfbjwnhzwjfvkcmn“Xzhfjvcw 
 kbnrqjwwnikndjxunfknrxqkkw,”nVnrjvg,n“vtnvfndznfqjfnfqjfnfhkbdwzrn kbm
Dbfnckfnfknfqznkwgnawjxz—yznpbrfntvcgnjckfqzh,njndzffzhmnQkynxkbwgnV
uckynvfngvgnfhkbdwzn kb,nfqvrnebzrfvkc,nyqzcn kbnczozhnfkwgnpznrk,
czozhnrakuznktnvfnjfnjww?”nQvrnxwzjh,nwvrfzcvcintjxz,nthjpzgnvcnvfr
rpkkfqnyqvfzczrr,npjgznqvpntkhnfqznpvcbfznjrnjaazjwvcinjrnrkpznyvrftbw
ajfvzcfnvcnjnxqvwghzc’rnqkravfjw;njcgnVnykbwgnqjoznivozc,njrnfqz
hzrzpdwjcxznxjpznfknpz,njwwnVnakrrzrrzgnkcnzjhfqnhzjww nfkndznfqzncbhrz
khnfqznrvrfzhnktnxqjhvf nyqknpviqfnqjoznqzwazgnfknxbhznqvpmnYzww,nzozc
jrnvfnyjr,nVnazhqjarnpviqfnqzwa!n“Gkn kbnuckyn kb’oznczozhnrjvgnjnykhg
fknpznjdkbfn kbhnrxqkkw—Vnpzjcnfqznkwgnkcz;nczozhnpzcfvkczgnvfnvcnjc 
yj ?”

Qznrzzpzgnfknykcgzh;nqznrpvwzgnyvfqnfqznrjpznwkozwvczrrmnDbfnqznxwzjhw 
ijvczgnfvpz;nqznyjvfzg,nqznxjwwzgntkhnibvgjcxzmn“Qjozc’fnV?”nVfnyjrc’f
tkhn_pz_nfknqzwanqvp—vfnyjrntkhnfqznfqvcinVnqjgnpzf!

Rkpzfqvcinvcnqvrnfkcznjcgnfqznz.ahzrrvkcnktnqvrntjxz,njrnVnikfnfqvr
thkpnqvp,nrzfnp nqzjhfnjxqvcinyvfqnrbxqnjnajcinjrnvfnqjgnczozhn zf
uckyc;nrknbcbffzhjdw nfkbxqvcinyjrnvfnfknrzznqvrnwvffwzndhjvcnabsswzg
jcgnqvrnwvffwznhzrkbhxzrnfj.zgnfknawj ,nbcgzhnfqznrazwwnwjvgnkcnqvp,nj
ajhfnktnvcckxzcxznjcgnxkcrvrfzcx mn“Ck,nczozh—thkpnfqznqkbhn kbnxjpz
djxumn kb’oznczozhnpzcfvkczgnfknpznkcznktn kbhnpjrfzhr,nkcznktn kbh
xkphjgzr,nckhnfqznwzjrfnwvffwznfqvcinfqjfnzozhnqjaazczgnfkn kbnjf
rxqkkwmnCzozh,nwvffwznPvwzr—ck,nczozh—qjozn kbnivozcnpznjcnvcuwvcinkt
jc fqvcinfqjfn_pj _nqjoznqjaazczgnfqzhzmnFqzhztkhzn kbnxjcntjcx nqky
pbxqnV’pnvcnfqzngjhumnBcfvwn kbnxjpznkbf,nfqjfnyj ,nfqvrnpkhcvci,n kb
qjg,nrvcxznfqzntvhrfnqkbhnVnrjyn kb,nrxjhxznzozcnpjgznjnhztzhzcxznfk
jc fqvcinvcn kbhnahzovkbrnwvtzmn kbnrzzpzgnrknazhtzxfw nfknjxxzafnfqz
ahzrzcfm”nVfnyjrnz.fhjkhgvcjh nqkynp njdrkwbfznxkcovxfvkcnktnqvrnrzxhzf
ahzxkxvf n(khnyqjfzozhnVnpviqfnxjwwnfqznakvrkcnktnjcnvctwbzcxznfqjfnV
gjhzgndbfnqjwtnfknaqhjrz)npjgznqvp,nvcnravfznktnfqzntjvcfndhzjfqnktnqvr
vcyjhgnfhkbdwz,njaazjhnjrnjxxzrrvdwznjrnjcnkwgzhnazhrkc—vpakrzgnqvp
jwpkrfnjrnjcnvcfzwwzxfbjwnzebjwmn“Vnfqkbiqfn kbnyjcfzgnfkniknkcnjrn kb
jhzm”

Vfnrfhbxunpznfqjfnjfnfqvrnqznlbrfntjvcfw nxkwkhzgmnQznijoz,njfnjc 
hjfz,nwvuznjnxkcojwzrxzcfnrwviqfw ntjfvibzg,njnwjcibvgnrqjuznktnqvr
qzjgmn“Vngkc’f—Vngkc’fmnVnyjcfnfknizfnjyj m”

“ kb’hznfvhzgnktnDw ?”

“Kq,nck,nVnwvuznDw m”

“Yzww,nfqzc—?”

“Kq,n_ kb_nuckynyqjfnjndk nyjcfr!”

VntzwfnfqjfnVngvgc’fnuckynrknyzwwnjrnPvwzr,njcgnVnfkkunfzpakhjh 
hztbizmn“ kbnyjcfnfkniknfkn kbhnbcxwz?”

Jijvc,njfnfqvr,nyvfqnqvrnryzzfnvhkcvxntjxz,nqznpjgznjnpkozpzcfnkcnfqz
avwwkymn“Jq,n kbnxjc’fnizfnkttnyvfqnfqjf!”

Vnyjrnrvwzcfnjnwvffwz,njcgnvfnyjrnV,ncky,nVnfqvcu,nyqknxqjcizgnxkwkhm
“P ngzjh,nVngkc’fnyjcfnfknizfnktt!”

“ kbnxjc’f,nzozcnvtn kbngkmn kbnxjc’f,n kbnxjc’f!”—qznwj ndzjbfvtbww 
rfjhvcimn“P nbcxwznpbrfnxkpzngkyc,njcgn kbnpbrfnxkpawzfzw nrzffwz
fqvcirm”

“Vtnyzngk,”nVnhzfbhczgnyvfqnrkpznravhvf,n“ kbnpj ndznrbhznvfnyvwwndznfk
fjuzn kbnebvfznjyj m”

“Yzww,ngkc’fn kbnbcgzhrfjcgnfqjfnfqjf’rnz.jxfw nyqjfnV’pnykhuvcintkh?
 kb’wwnqjoznfknfzwwnqvp—jdkbfnfqznyj n kb’oznwzfnvfnjwwnghka:n kb’ww
qjoznfknfzwwnqvpnjnfhzpzcgkbrnwkf!”

Fqznz.bwfjfvkcnyvfqnyqvxqnqznbffzhzgnfqvrnqzwazgnpznrkpzqky,ntkhnfqz
vcrfjcf,nfknpzzfnqvpnhjfqzhnpkhzmn“Jcgnqkynpbxqnyvwwn_ kb_,nPvwzr,nqjoz
fknfzwwnqvp?nFqzhznjhznfqvcirnqz’wwnjrun kb!”

Qznfbhczgnvfnkozhmn“Ozh nwvuzw mnDbfnyqjfnfqvcir?”

“Fqznfqvcirn kb’oznczozhnfkwgnpzmnFknpjuznbanqvrnpvcgnyqjfnfkngknyvfq
 kbmnQznxjc’fnrzcgn kbndjxu—”

“Kq,nVngkc’fnyjcfnfknikndjxu!”nqzndhkuznvcmn“Vnyjcfnjnczyntvzwgm”

Qznrjvgnvfnyvfqnjgpvhjdwznrzhzcvf ,nyvfqnakrvfvoznbcvpazjxqjdwznijvzf ;
jcgngkbdfwzrrnvfnyjrnfqjfnozh nckfznfqjfnpkrfnzokuzgntkhnpznfqz
akvicjcx ,nfqznbccjfbhjwnxqvwgvrqnfhjizg ,nktnqvrnahkdjdwznhzjaazjhjcxz
jfnfqznzcgnktnfqhzznpkcfqrnyvfqnjwwnfqvrndhjojgknjcgnrfvwwnpkhz
gvrqkckhmnVfnkozhyqzwpzgnpznckynfqjfnVnrqkbwgnczozhndznjdwznfkndzjh
fqjf,njcgnvfnpjgznpznwzfnp rzwtnikmnVnfqhzynp rzwtnbakcnqvpnjcgnvcnfqz
fzcgzhczrrnktnp navf nVnzpdhjxzgnqvpmn“GzjhnwvffwznPvwzr,ngzjhnwvffwz
Pvwzr—!”

P ntjxznyjrnxwkrznfknqvr,njcgnqznwzfnpznuvrrnqvp,nrvpaw nfjuvcinvfnyvfq
vcgbwizcfnikkgnqbpkhmn“Yzww,nkwgnwjg ?”

“Vrnfqzhznckfqvci—ckfqvcinjfnjwwnfqjfn kbnyjcfnfknfzwwnpz?”

Qznfbhczgnkttnjnwvffwz,ntjxvcinhkbcgnfkyjhgnfqznyjwwnjcgnqkwgvcinbanqvr
qjcgnfknwkkunjfnjrnkcznqjgnrzzcnrvxunxqvwghzcnwkkumn“V’oznfkwgn kb—V
fkwgn kbnfqvrnpkhcvcim”

Kq,nVnyjrnrkhh ntkhnqvp!n“Fqjfn kbnlbrfnyjcfnpznckfnfknykhh n kb?”

Qznwkkuzgnhkbcgnjfnpzncky,njrnvtnvcnhzxkicvfvkcnktnp nbcgzhrfjcgvci
qvp;nfqzcnzozhnrknizcfw ,n“Fknwzfnpznjwkcz,”nqznhzawvzgm

Fqzhznyjrnzozcnjnrvcibwjhnwvffwzngvicvf nvcnvf,nrkpzfqvcinfqjfnpjgznpz
hzwzjrznqvp,n zf,nyqzcnVnqjgnrwkyw nhvrzc,nwvcizhndzrvgznqvpmnIkgnuckyr
Vnczozhnyvrqzgnfknqjhjrrnqvp,ndbfnVntzwfnfqjfnpzhzw ,njfnfqvr,nfknfbhc
p ndjxunkcnqvpnyjrnfknjdjcgkcnkh,nfknabfnvfnpkhznfhbw ,nfknwkrznqvpm
“V’oznlbrfndzibcnjnwzffzhnfkn kbhnbcxwz,”nVnrjvgm

“Yzww,nfqzc,ntvcvrqnvf!”

Vnyjvfzgnjnpvcbfzmn“Yqjfnqjaazczgndztkhz?”

Qznijszgnbanjfnpznjijvcmn“Dztkhznyqjf?”

“Dztkhzn kbnxjpzndjxumnJcgndztkhzn kbnyzcfnjyj m”

Tkhnrkpznfvpznqznyjrnrvwzcf,ndbfnqznxkcfvcbzgnfknpzzfnp nz zrmn“Yqjf
qjaazczg?”

Vfnpjgznpz,nfqznrkbcgnktnfqznykhgr,nvcnyqvxqnvfnrzzpzgnfknpznfqjfnV
xjbiqfntkhnfqznozh ntvhrfnfvpznjnrpjwwntjvcfnebjozhnktnxkcrzcfvci
xkcrxvkbrczrr—vfnpjgznpznghkankcnp nuczzrndzrvgznfqzndzgnjcgnrzvsznkcxz
pkhznfqznxqjcxznktnakrrzrrvcinqvpmn“GzjhnwvffwznPvwzr,ngzjhnwvffwz
Pvwzr,nvtn kbn_uczy_nqkynVnyjcfnfknqzwan kb!nVf’rnkcw nfqjf,nvf’r
ckfqvcindbfnfqjf,njcgnV’gnhjfqzhngvznfqjcnivozn kbnjnajvcnkhngkn kbnj
yhkci—V’gnhjfqzhngvznfqjcnqbhfnjnqjvhnktn kbmnGzjhnwvffwznPvwzr”—kq,nV
dhkbiqfnvfnkbfnckynzozcnvtnVn_rqkbwg_niknfkkntjh—“Vnlbrfnyjcfn kbnfk
qzwanpznfknrjozn kb!”nDbfnVnuczynvcnjnpkpzcfnjtfzhnfqvrnfqjfnVnqjgnikcz
fkkntjhmnFqznjcryzhnfknp njaazjwnyjrnvcrfjcfjczkbr,ndbfnvfnxjpznvcnfqz
tkhpnktnjcnz.fhjkhgvcjh ndwjrfnjcgnxqvww,njnibrfnktnthkszcnjvh,njcgnj
rqjuznktnfqznhkkpnjrnihzjfnjrnvt,nvcnfqznyvwgnyvcg,nfqznxjrzpzcfnqjg
xhjrqzgnvcmnFqzndk nijoznjnwkbg,nqviqnrqhvzu,nyqvxq,nwkrfnvcnfqznhzrf
ktnfqznrqkxunktnrkbcg,npviqfnqjoznrzzpzg,nvcgvrfvcxfw ,nfqkbiqnVnyjrnrk
xwkrznfknqvp,njnckfznzvfqzhnktnlbdvwjfvkcnkhnktnfzhhkhmnVnlbpazgnfknp 
tzzfnjijvcnjcgnyjrnxkcrxvkbrnktngjhuczrrmnRkntkhnjnpkpzcfnyznhzpjvczg,
yqvwznVnrfjhzgnjdkbfnpznjcgnrjynfqjfnfqznghjycnxbhfjvcrnyzhznbcrfvhhzg
jcgnfqznyvcgkynfviqfmn“Yq ,nfqznxjcgwz’rnkbf!”nVnfqzcnxhvzgm

“VfnyjrnVnyqkndwzynvf,ngzjh!”nrjvgnPvwzrm


.OVVV

Fqzncz.fngj ,njtfzhnwzrrkcr,nPhrmnIhkrzntkbcgnjnpkpzcfnfknrj nfknpz
ebvzfw :n“Qjozn kbnyhvffzc,npvrr?”

“ zr—V’oznyhvffzcm”nDbfnVngvgc’fnjgg—tkhnfqznqkbh—fqjfnp nwzffzh,
rzjwzgnjcgngvhzxfzg,nyjrnrfvwwnvcnp nakxuzfmnFqzhznykbwgndznfvpznzckbiq
fknrzcgnvfndztkhznfqznpzrrzcizhnrqkbwgniknfknfqznovwwjizmnPzjcyqvwz
fqzhznqjgndzzc,nkcnfqznajhfnktnp nabavwr,ncknpkhzndhvwwvjcf,npkhz
z.zpawjh npkhcvcimnVfnyjrnz.jxfw njrnvtnfqz nqjgndkfqnqjgnjfnqzjhfnfk
iwkrrnkozhnjc nhzxzcfnwvffwznthvxfvkcmnFqz nazhtkhpzgnfqzngvssvzrf
tzjfrnktnjhvfqpzfvx,nrkjhvcinebvfznkbfnktn_p _ntzzdwznhjciz,njcg
azhazfhjfzg,nvcnqviqzhnravhvfrnfqjcnzozh,nizkihjaqvxjwnjcgnqvrfkhvxjw
lkuzrmnVfnyjrnxkcravxbkbrnktnxkbhrznvcnPvwzrnvcnajhfvxbwjhnfqjfnqz
jaazjhzgnfknyvrqnfknrqkynqkynzjrvw nqznxkbwgnwzfnpzngkycmnFqvrnxqvwg,
fknp npzpkh ,nhzjww nwvozrnvcnjnrzffvcinktndzjbf njcgnpvrzh nfqjfnck
ykhgrnxjcnfhjcrwjfz;nfqzhznyjrnjngvrfvcxfvkcnjwwnqvrnkycnvcnzozh 
vpabwrznqznhzozjwzg;nczozhnyjrnjnrpjwwncjfbhjwnxhzjfbhz,nfknfqz
bcvcvfvjfzgnz znjwwnthjcuczrrnjcgnthzzgkp,njnpkhznvcizcvkbr,njnpkhz
z.fhjkhgvcjh nwvffwznizcfwzpjcmnVnqjgnazhazfbjww nfknibjhgnjijvcrfnfqz
ykcgzhnktnxkcfzpawjfvkcnvcfknyqvxqnp nvcvfvjfzgnovzyndzfhj zgnpz;nfk
xqzxunfqznvhhzwzojcfnijsznjcgngvrxkbhjizgnrviqnvcnyqvxqnVnxkcrfjcfw 
dkfqnjffjxuzgnjcgnhzckbcxzgnfqznzcvipjnktnyqjfnrbxqnjnwvffwznizcfwzpjc
xkbwgnqjozngkcznfqjfngzrzhozgnjnazcjwf mnRj nfqjf,nd nfqzngjhunahkgvi 
Vnuczy,nfqznvpjivcjfvkcnktnjwwnzovwn_qjg_ndzzcnkazczgnbanfknqvp:njww
fqznlbrfvxznyvfqvcnpznjxqzgntkhnfqznahkktnfqjfnvfnxkbwgnzozhnqjoz
twkyzhzgnvcfknjcnjxfm

Qznqjgnczozh,njfnjc nhjfz,ndzzcnrbxqnjnwvffwznizcfwzpjcnjrnyqzc,njtfzh
kbhnzjhw ngvcczhnkcnfqvrnghzjgtbwngj ,nqznxjpznhkbcgnfknpznjcgnjruzgnvt
Vnrqkbwgc’fnwvuznqvp,ntkhnqjwtnjcnqkbh,nfknawj nfknpzmnGjovgnawj vcinfk
RjbwnxkbwgnczozhnqjoznrqkycnjntvczhnrzcrznktnfqznkxxjrvkcmnVfnyjr
wvfzhjww njnxqjhpvcinz.qvdvfvkcnktnfjxf,nktnpjicjcvpvf ,njcgnebvfz
fjcfjpkbcfnfknqvrnrj vcinkbfhviqf:n“Fqznfhbznucviqfrnyznwkoznfknhzjg
jdkbfnczozhnabrqnjcnjgojcfjiznfkkntjhmnVnuckynyqjfn kbnpzjcncky:n kb
pzjcnfqjf—fkndznwzfnjwkczn kbhrzwtnjcgnckfntkwwkyzgnba— kb’wwnxzjrznfk
ykhh njcgnra nbakcnpz,nykc’fnuzzanpznrknxwkrznfkn kb,nyvwwnwzfnpznik
jcgnxkpzmnYzww,nVn‘xkpz,’n kbnrzz—dbfnVngkc’fnik!nFqzhz’wwndznawzcf nkt
fvpzntkhnfqjfmnVngknhzjww ngzwviqfnvcn kbhnrkxvzf ,njcgnVnkcw nyjcfnfk
rqkyn kbnfqjfnVnxkcfzcgzgntkhnjnahvcxvawzm”nVfnpj ndznvpjivczgnyqzfqzh
Vnhzrvrfzgnfqvrnjaazjwnkhntjvwzgnfknjxxkpajc nqvpnjijvc,nqjcgnvcnqjcg,
fknfqznrxqkkwhkkpmnQznrjfngkycnjfnfqznkwgnavjcknjcgnawj zgnjrnqznqjg
czozhnawj zg;njcgnvtnfqzhznjhznfqkrznyqknfqvcunqznqjgndzffzhnqjozndzzc
uvxuvcinjntkkfdjwwnVnxjcnkcw nrj nfqjfnVnyqkww njihzznyvfqnfqzpmnTkhnjf
fqznzcgnktnjnfvpznfqjfnbcgzhnqvrnvctwbzcxznVnqjgnebvfznxzjrzgnfk
pzjrbhz,nVnrfjhfzgnbanyvfqnjnrfhjciznrzcrznktnqjovcinwvfzhjww nrwzafnjf
p nakrfmnVfnyjrnjtfzhnwbcxqzkc,njcgnd nfqznrxqkkwhkkpntvhz,njcgn zfnV
qjgc’fnhzjww ,nvcnfqznwzjrf,nrwzaf:nVnqjgnkcw ngkcznrkpzfqvcinpbxq
ykhrz—VnqjgntkhikffzcmnYqzhz,njwwnfqvrnfvpz,nyjrnTwkhj?nYqzcnVnabfnfqz
ebzrfvkcnfknPvwzr,nqznawj zgnkcnjnpvcbfzndztkhznjcryzhvcinjcgnfqzc
xkbwgnkcw nrj :n“Yq ,np ngzjh,nqkyngkn_V_nucky?”—dhzjuvcinpkhzkozhnvcfk
jnqjaa nwjbiqnyqvxq,nvppzgvjfzw njtfzh,njrnvtnvfnyzhznjnokxjw
jxxkpajcvpzcf,nqznahkwkcizgnvcfknvcxkqzhzcf,nz.fhjojijcfnrkcim

Vnyzcfnrfhjviqfnfknp nhkkp,ndbfnqvrnrvrfzhnyjrnckfnfqzhz;nfqzc,ndztkhz
ikvcingkycrfjvhr,nVnwkkuzgnvcfknrzozhjwnkfqzhrmnJrnrqznyjrnckyqzhz
jdkbfnrqznykbwgnrbhzw ndznyvfqnPhrmnIhkrz,nyqkp,nvcnfqznxkptkhfnktnfqjf
fqzkh ,nVnjxxkhgvciw nahkxzzgzgnvcnebzrfnktmnVntkbcgnqzhnyqzhznVnqjg
tkbcgnqzhnfqznzozcvcindztkhz,ndbfnrqznpzfnp nebvxunxqjwwzciznyvfq
dwjcu,nrxjhzgnvickhjcxzmnRqznqjgnkcw nrbaakrzgnfqjf,njtfzhnfqznhzajrf,
Vnqjgnxjhhvzgnkttndkfqnfqznxqvwghzc;njrnfknyqvxqnrqznyjrnebvfznvcnqzh
hviqf,ntkhnvfnyjrnfqznozh ntvhrfnfvpznVnqjgnjwwkyzgnfqznwvffwznivhwnkbf
ktnp nrviqfnyvfqkbfnrkpznrazxvjwnahkovrvkcmnKtnxkbhrznckynvcgzzgnrqz
pviqfndznyvfqnfqznpjvgr,nrknfqjfnfqznvppzgvjfznfqvcinyjrnfknwkkuntkh
qzhnyvfqkbfnjcnjvhnktnjwjhpmnFqvrnyznahkpafw njhhjcizgndzfyzzcnbr;ndbf
yqzc,nfzcnpvcbfzrnwjfzhnjcgnvcnabhrbjcxznktnkbhnjhhjcizpzcf,nyznpzfnvc
fqznqjww,nvfnyjrnkcw nfknhzakhfnkcnzvfqzhnrvgznfqjfnjtfzhnibjhgzg
vcebvhvzrnyznqjgnjwfkizfqzhntjvwzgnfknfhjxznqzhmnTkhnjnpvcbfznfqzhz,
jajhfnthkpnkdrzhojfvkc,nyznz.xqjcizgnpbfznjwjhpr,njcgnVnxkbwgntzzwnyvfq
yqjfnqviqnvcfzhzrfnp nthvzcgnhzfbhczgnpznjwwnfqkrznVnqjgnthkpnfqzntvhrf
ivozcnqzhm

“Rqz’wwndznjdkoz,”nrqznahzrzcfw nrjvg—“vcnkcznktnfqznhkkprn kbnqjozc’f
rzjhxqzgm”

“Ck;nrqz’rnjfnjngvrfjcxzm”nVnqjgnpjgznbanp npvcgmn“Rqznqjrnikcznkbfm”

PhrmnIhkrznrfjhzgmn“Yvfqkbfnjnqjf?”

Vncjfbhjww njwrknwkkuzgnokwbpzrmn“Vrc’fnfqjfnykpjcnjwyj rnyvfqkbfnkcz?”

“Rqz’rnyvfqn_qzh?_”

“Rqz’rnyvfqn_qzh!_”nVngzxwjhzgmn“Yznpbrfntvcgnfqzpm”

P nqjcgnyjrnkcnp nthvzcg’rnjhp,ndbfnrqzntjvwzgntkhnfqznpkpzcf,
xkcthkcfzgnyvfqnrbxqnjcnjxxkbcfnktnfqznpjffzh,nfknhzrakcgnfknp 
ahzrrbhzmnRqznxkppbczg,nkcnfqznxkcfhjh ,nkcnfqznrakf,nyvfqnqzh
bczjrvczrrmn“Jcgnyqzhz’rnPjrfzhnPvwzr?”

“Kq,n_qz’r_nyvfqnEbvcfmnFqz ’hznvcnfqznrxqkkwhkkpm”

“Wkhg,npvrr!”nP novzy,nVnyjrnp rzwtnjyjhz—jcgnfqzhztkhznVnrbaakrznp 
fkcz—qjgnczozhn zfnhzjxqzgnrknxjwpnjcnjrrbhjcxzm

“Fqznfhvxu’rnawj zg,”nVnyzcfnkc;n“fqz ’oznrbxxzrrtbww nykhuzgnfqzvh
awjcmnQzntkbcgnfqznpkrfngvovcznwvffwznyj nfknuzzanpznebvzfnyqvwznrqz
yzcfnkttm”

“‘Gvovcz’?”nPhrmnIhkrzndzyvwgzhzgw nzxqkzgm

“Vctzhcjw,nfqzc!”nVnjwpkrfnxqzzhtbww nhzlkvczgmn“Qznqjrnahkovgzgntkh
qvprzwtnjrnyzwwmnDbfnxkpz!”

Rqznqjgnqzwawzrrw niwkkpzgnjfnfqznbaazhnhzivkcrmn“ kbnwzjoznqvp—?”

“RknwkcinyvfqnEbvcf?n zr—Vngkc’fnpvcgnfqjfnckym”

Rqznjwyj rnzcgzg,njfnfqzrznpkpzcfr,nd nizffvcinakrrzrrvkcnktnp nqjcg,
jcgnvcnfqvrnpjcczhnrqznxkbwgnjfnahzrzcfnrfvwwnrfj npzmnDbfnjtfzh
ijravcinjcnvcrfjcfnjfnp nrbggzcnhzrvicjfvkc,n“Dzxjbrznktn kbhnwzffzh?”
rqznzjizhw ndhkbiqfnkbfm

Vnebvxuw ,nd nyj nktnjcryzh,ntzwfntkhnp nwzffzh,nghzynvfntkhfq,nqzwgnvf
ba,njcgnfqzc,nthzzvcinp rzwt,nyzcfnjcgnwjvgnvfnkcnfqznihzjfnqjwwnfjdwzm
“Wbuznyvwwnfjuznvf,”nVnrjvgnjrnVnxjpzndjxumnVnhzjxqzgnfqznqkbrzngkkh
jcgnkazczgnvf;nVnyjrnjwhzjg nkcnfqznrfzarm

P nxkpajcvkcnrfvwwngzpbhhzg:nfqznrfkhpnktnfqzncviqfnjcgnfqznzjhw 
pkhcvcinqjgnghkaazg,ndbfnfqznjtfzhckkcnyjrngjpanjcgnihj mnVnxjpzngkyc
fknfqznghvoznyqvwznrqznrfkkgnvcnfqzngkkhyj mn“ kbniknyvfqnckfqvcinkc?”

“YqjfngknVnxjhznyqzcnfqznxqvwgnqjrnckfqvci?nVnxjc’fnyjvfnfknghzrr,”nV
xhvzg,n“jcgnvtn kbnpbrfngknrk,nVnwzjozn kbmnFh npzjcyqvwz,n kbhrzwt,
barfjvhrm”

“Yvfqn_fqzp?_”nKq,nkcnfqvr,nfqznakkhnykpjcnahkpafw nlkvczgnpz!


.V.

Yznyzcfnrfhjviqfnfknfqznwjuz,njrnvfnyjrnxjwwzgnjfnDw ,njcgnVngjhzrj 
hviqfw nxjwwzg,nfqkbiqnVnhztwzxfnfqjfnvfnpj nvcntjxfnqjozndzzcnjnrqzzf
ktnyjfzhnwzrrnhzpjhujdwznfqjcnvfnjaazjhzgnfknp nbcfhjozwzgnz zrmnP 
jxebjvcfjcxznyvfqnrqzzfrnktnyjfzhnyjrnrpjww,njcgnfqznakkwnktnDw ,njf
jwwnzozcfrnkcnfqzntzynkxxjrvkcrnktnp nxkcrzcfvci,nbcgzhnfqznahkfzxfvkc
ktnp nabavwr,nfknjtthkcfnvfrnrbhtjxznvcnfqznkwgntwjf-dkffkpzgndkjf
pkkhzgnfqzhzntkhnkbhnbrz,nqjgnvpahzrrzgnpzndkfqnyvfqnvfrnz.fzcfnjcgnvfr
jivfjfvkcmnFqznbrbjwnawjxznktnzpdjhujfvkcnyjrnqjwtnjnpvwznthkpnfqz
qkbrz,ndbfnVnqjgnjcnvcfvpjfznxkcovxfvkcnfqjf,nyqzhzozhnTwkhjnpviqfndz,
rqznyjrnckfnczjhnqkpzmnRqznqjgnckfnivozcnpznfqznrwvantkhnjc nrpjww
jgozcfbhz,njcg,nrvcxznfqzngj nktnfqznozh nihzjfnkcznfqjfnVnqjgnrqjhzg
yvfqnqzhnd nfqznakcg,nVnqjgndzzcnjyjhz,nvcnkbhnyjwur,nktnfqznebjhfzhnfk
yqvxqnrqznpkrfnvcxwvczgmnFqvrnyjrnyq nVnqjgnckynivozcnfknPhrmnIhkrz’r
rfzarnrknpjhuzgnjngvhzxfvkc—jngvhzxfvkcnfqjfnpjgznqzh,nyqzcnrqz
azhxzvozgnvf,nkaakrznjnhzrvrfjcxznfqjfnrqkyzgnpznrqznyjrnthzrqw 
p rfvtvzgmn“ kb’hznikvcinfknfqznyjfzh,nPvrr?— kbnfqvcunrqz’rn_vc_—?”

“Rqznpj ndz,nfqkbiqnfqzngzafqnvr,nVndzwvzoz,nckyqzhznozh nihzjfmnDbf
yqjfnVnlbgiznpkrfnwvuzw nvrnfqjfnrqz’rnkcnfqznrakfnthkpnyqvxq,nfqz
kfqzhngj ,nyznrjynfkizfqzhnyqjfnVnfkwgn kbm”

“Yqzcnrqznahzfzcgzgnckfnfknrzz—?”

“Yvfqnfqjfnjrfkbcgvcinrzwt-akrrzrrvkc?nV’oznjwyj rndzzcnrbhznrqznyjcfzg
fknikndjxunjwkczmnJcgnckynqzhndhkfqzhnqjrnpjcjizgnvfntkhnqzhm”

PhrmnIhkrznrfvwwnrfkkgnyqzhznrqznqjgnrfkaazgmn“ kbnrbaakrznfqz nhzjww 
_fjwu_nktnfqzp?”

“Vnxkbwgnpzzfnfqvrnyvfqnjnxkctvgzcxz!nFqz nrj nfqvcirnfqjf,nvtnyznqzjhg
fqzp,nykbwgnrvpaw njaajwwnbrm”

“Jcgnvtnrqzn_vr_nfqzhz—”

“ zr?”

“FqzcnPvrrnLzrrzwnvr?”

“Dz kcgnjngkbdfmn kbnrqjwwnrzzm”

“Kq,nfqjcun kb!”np nthvzcgnxhvzg,nawjcfzgnrkntvhpnfqjf,nfjuvcinvfnvc,nV
yzcfnrfhjviqfnkcnyvfqkbfnqzhmnD nfqznfvpznVnhzjxqzgnfqznakkw,nqkyzozh,
rqznyjrnxwkrzndzqvcgnpz,njcgnVnuczynfqjf,nyqjfzozh,nfknqzh
jaahzqzcrvkc,npviqfndztjwwnpz,nfqznz.akrbhznktnp nrkxvzf nrfhbxunqzhnjr
qzhnwzjrfngjcizhmnRqznz.qjwzgnjnpkjcnktnhzwvztnjrnyznjfnwjrfnxjpznvc
rviqfnktnfqznihzjfzhnajhfnktnfqznyjfzhnyvfqkbfnjnrviqfnktnfqznxqvwgm
FqzhznyjrncknfhjxznktnTwkhjnkcnfqjfnczjhzhnrvgznktnfqzndjcunyqzhznp 
kdrzhojfvkcnktnqzhnqjgndzzcnpkrfnrfjhfwvci,njcgnckcznkcnfqznkaakrvfz
zgiz,nyqzhz,nrjozntkhnjnpjhivcnktnrkpznfyzcf n jhgr,njnfqvxunxkarznxjpz
gkycnfknfqznyjfzhmnFqznakcg,nkdwkcinvcnrqjaz,nqjgnjnyvgfqnrknrxjcf
xkpajhzgnfknvfrnwzcifqnfqjf,nyvfqnvfrnzcgrnkbfnktnovzy,nvfnpviqfnqjoz
dzzcnfjuzcntkhnjnrxjcfnhvozhmnYznwkkuzgnjfnfqznzpaf nz.ajcrz,njcgnfqzc
Vntzwfnfqznrbiizrfvkcnktnp nthvzcg’rnz zrmnVnuczynyqjfnrqznpzjcfnjcgnV
hzawvzgnyvfqnjnczijfvoznqzjgrqjuzm

“Ck,nck;nyjvf!nRqznqjrnfjuzcnfqzndkjfm”

P nxkpajcvkcnrfjhzgnjfnfqznojxjcfnpkkhvcinawjxznjcgnfqzcnjijvcnjxhkrr
fqznwjuzmn“Fqzcnyqzhznvrnvf?”

“KbhnckfnrzzvcinvfnvrnfqznrfhkcizrfnktnahkktrmnRqznqjrnbrzgnvfnfknik
kozh,njcgnfqzcnqjrnpjcjizgnfknqvgznvfm”

“Jwwnjwkcz—fqjfnxqvwg?”

“Rqz’rnckfnjwkcz,njcgnjfnrbxqnfvpzrnrqz’rnckfnjnxqvwg:nrqz’rnjcnkwg,
kwgnykpjcm”nVnrxjcczgnjwwnfqznovrvdwznrqkhznyqvwznPhrmnIhkrznfkku
jijvc,nvcfknfqznebzzhnzwzpzcfnVnkttzhzgnqzh,nkcznktnqzhnawbcizrnkt
rbdpvrrvkc;nfqzcnVnakvcfzgnkbfnfqjfnfqzndkjfnpviqfnazhtzxfw ndznvcnj
rpjwwnhztbizntkhpzgnd nkcznktnfqznhzxzrrzrnktnfqznakkw,njcnvcgzcfjfvkc
pjruzg,ntkhnfqznqvfqzhnrvgz,nd njnahklzxfvkcnktnfqzndjcunjcgnd njnxwbpa
ktnfhzzrnihkyvcinxwkrznfknfqznyjfzhm

“Dbfnvtnfqzndkjf’rnfqzhz,nyqzhznkcnzjhfq’rn_rqz?_”np nxkwwzjibz
jc.vkbrw njruzgm

“Fqjf’rnz.jxfw nyqjfnyznpbrfnwzjhcm”nJcgnVnrfjhfzgnfknyjwuntbhfqzhm

“D nikvcinjwwnfqznyj nhkbcg?”

“Xzhfjvcw ,ntjhnjrnvfnvrmnVfnyvwwnfjuznbrndbfnfzcnpvcbfzr,ndbfnvf’rntjh
zckbiqnfknqjoznpjgznfqznxqvwgnahztzhnckfnfknyjwumnRqznyzcfnrfhjviqf
kozhm”

“Wjyr!”nxhvzgnp nthvzcgnjijvc;nfqznxqjvcnktnp nwkivxnyjrnzozhnfkknpbxq
tkhnqzhmnVfnghjiizgnqzhnjfnp nqzzwrnzozcncky,njcgnyqzcnyznqjgnikf
qjwtyj nhkbcg—jngzovkbr,nfvhzrkpznahkxzrr,nkcnihkbcgnpbxqndhkuzcnjcgnd 
jnajfqnxqkuzgnyvfqnkozhihkyfq—VnajbrzgnfknivoznqzhndhzjfqmnVnrbrfjvczg
qzhnyvfqnjnihjfztbwnjhp,njrrbhvcinqzhnfqjfnrqznpviqfnqbizw nqzwanpz;
jcgnfqvrnrfjhfzgnbrnjthzrq,nrknfqjfnvcnfqznxkbhrznktndbfntzynpvcbfzr
pkhznyznhzjxqzgnjnakvcfnthkpnyqvxqnyzntkbcgnfqzndkjfnfkndznyqzhznVnqjg
rbaakrzgnvfmnVfnqjgndzzcnvcfzcfvkcjww nwztfnjrnpbxqnjrnakrrvdwznkbfnkt
rviqfnjcgnyjrnfvzgnfknkcznktnfqznrfjuzrnktnjntzcxznfqjfnxjpz,nlbrf
fqzhz,ngkycnfknfqzndhvcunjcgnfqjfnqjgndzzcnjcnjrrvrfjcxznfk
gvrzpdjhuvcimnVnhzxkicvszg,njrnVnwkkuzgnjfnfqznajvhnktnrqkhf,nfqvxu
kjhr,nebvfznrjtzw nghjycnba,nfqznahkgvivkbrnxqjhjxfzhnktnfqzntzjfntkhnj
wvffwznivhw;ndbfnVnqjgnwvozg,nd nfqvrnfvpz,nfkknwkcinjpkcinykcgzhrnjcg
qjgnajcfzgnfknfkknpjc nwvozwvzhnpzjrbhzrmnFqzhznyjrnjnijfznvcnfqz
tzcxz,nfqhkbiqnyqvxqnyznajrrzg,njcgnfqjfndhkbiqfnbr,njtfzhnjnfhvtwvci
vcfzhojw,npkhznvcfknfqznkazcmnFqzc,n“Fqzhznrqznvr!”nyzndkfqnz.xwjvpzg
jfnkcxzm

Twkhj,njnrqkhfnyj nktt,nrfkkgndztkhznbrnkcnfqznihjrrnjcgnrpvwzgnjrnvt
qzhnazhtkhpjcxznyjrnckynxkpawzfzmnFqzncz.fnfqvcinrqzngvg,nqkyzozh,nyjr
fknrfkkanrfhjviqfngkycnjcgnawbxu—ebvfznjrnvtnvfnyzhznjwwnrqznyjrnfqzhz
tkh—jndvi,nbiw nrahj nktnyvfqzhzgntzhcmnVnvcrfjcfw ndzxjpznrbhznrqznqjg
lbrfnxkpznkbfnktnfqznxkarzmnRqznyjvfzgntkhnbr,nckfnqzhrzwtnfjuvcinj
rfza,njcgnVnyjrnxkcrxvkbrnktnfqznhjhznrkwzpcvf nyvfqnyqvxqnyznahzrzcfw 
jaahkjxqzgnqzhmnRqznrpvwzgnjcgnrpvwzg,njcgnyznpzf;ndbfnvfnyjrnjwwngkcz
vcnjnrvwzcxznd nfqvrnfvpzntwjihjcfw nkpvckbrmnPhrmnIhkrznyjrnfqzntvhrf
fkndhzjunfqznrazww:nrqznfqhzynqzhrzwtnkcnqzhnuczzrnjcg,nghjyvcinfqz
xqvwgnfknqzhndhzjrf,nxwjrazgnvcnjnwkcinzpdhjxznfqznwvffwznfzcgzh,
 vzwgvcindkg mnYqvwznfqvrngbpdnxkcobwrvkcnwjrfzgnVnxkbwgnkcw nyjfxq
vf—yqvxqnVngvgnfqznpkhznvcfzcfw nyqzcnVnrjynTwkhj’rntjxznazzanjfnpz
kozhnkbhnxkpajcvkc’rnrqkbwgzhmnVfnyjrnrzhvkbrncky—fqzntwvxuzhnqjgnwztf
vf;ndbfnvfnrfhzcifqzczgnfqznajcinyvfqnyqvxqnVnjfnfqjfnpkpzcfnzcovzg
PhrmnIhkrznfqznrvpawvxvf nktn_qzh_nhzwjfvkcmnRfvww,njwwnfqvrnyqvwz,
ckfqvcinpkhznajrrzgndzfyzzcnbrnrjoznfqjfnTwkhjnqjgnwzfnqzhntkkwvrqntzhc
jijvcnghkanfknfqznihkbcgmnYqjfnrqznjcgnVnqjgnovhfbjww nrjvgnfknzjxq
kfqzhnyjrnfqjfnahzfz.frnyzhznbrzwzrrnckymnYqzcnPhrmnIhkrzntvcjww nikf
banrqznuzafnfqznxqvwg’rnqjcg,nrknfqjfnfqznfyknyzhznrfvwwndztkhznpz;njcg
fqznrvcibwjhnhzfvxzcxznktnkbhnxkppbcvkcnyjrnzozcnpkhznpjhuzgnvcnfqz
thjcunwkkunrqznwjbcxqzgnpzmn“V’wwndznqjcizg,”nvfnrjvg,n“vtn_V’ww_
razju!”

VfnyjrnTwkhjnyqk,nijsvcinjwwnkozhnpznvcnxjcgvgnykcgzh,nyjrnfqzntvhrfm
Rqznyjrnrfhbxunyvfqnkbhndjhzqzjgzgnjrazxfmn“Yq ,nyqzhznjhzn kbh
fqvcir?”

“Yqzhzn kbhrnjhz,np ngzjh!”nVnahkpafw nhzfbhczgm

Rqznqjgnjwhzjg nikfndjxunqzhnijvzf ,njcgnjaazjhzgnfknfjuznfqvrnjrnjc
jcryzhnebvfznrbttvxvzcfmn“Jcgnyqzhz’rnPvwzr?”nrqznyzcfnkcm

Fqzhznyjrnrkpzfqvcinvcnfqznrpjwwnojwkhnktnvfnfqjfnebvfzntvcvrqzgnpz:
fqzrznfqhzznykhgrnthkpnqzhnyzhz,nvcnjntwjrqnwvuznfqzniwvffzhnktnjnghjyc
dwjgz,nfqznlkrfwznktnfqznxbanfqjfnp nqjcg,ntkhnyzzurnjcgnyzzur,nqjg
qzwgnqviqnjcgntbwwnfknfqzndhvpnfqjfncky,nzozcndztkhznrazjuvci,nVntzwf
kozhtwkynvcnjngzwbizmn“V’wwnfzwwn kbnvtn kb’wwnfzwwn_pz_—”nVnqzjhg
p rzwtnrj ,nfqzcnqzjhgnfqznfhzpkhnvcnyqvxqnvfndhkuzm

“Yzww,nyqjf?”

PhrmnIhkrz’rnrbrazcrzndwjszgnjfnpz,ndbfnvfnyjrnfkknwjfzncky,njcgnV
dhkbiqfnfqznfqvcinkbfnqjcgrkpzw mn“Yqzhz,np nazf,nvrnPvrrnLzrrzw?”


..

Lbrfnjrnvcnfqznxqbhxq jhgnyvfqnPvwzr,nfqznyqkwznfqvcinyjrnbakcnbrmnPbxq
jrnVnqjgnpjgznktnfqzntjxfnfqjfnfqvrncjpznqjgnczozhnkcxz,ndzfyzzcnbr,
dzzcnrkbcgzg,nfqznebvxu,nrpvffzcniwjhznyvfqnyqvxqnfqznxqvwg’rntjxzncky
hzxzvozgnvfntjvhw nwvuzczgnp ndhzjxqnktnfqznrvwzcxznfknfqznrpjrqnktnj
ajcznktniwjrrmnVfnjggzgnfknfqznvcfzhakrvcinxh ,njrnvtnfknrfj nfqzndwky,
fqjfnPhrmnIhkrz,njfnfqznrjpznvcrfjcf,nbffzhzgnkozhnp novkwzcxz—fqz
rqhvzunktnjnxhzjfbhznrxjhzg,nkhnhjfqzhnykbcgzg,nyqvxq,nvcnfbhc,nyvfqvc
jntzynrzxkcgr,nyjrnxkpawzfzgnd njnijranktnp nkycmnVnrzvszgnp 
xkwwzjibz’rnjhpmn“Rqz’rnfqzhz,nrqz’rnfqzhz!”

PvrrnLzrrzwnrfkkgndztkhznbrnkcnfqznkaakrvfzndjcunz.jxfw njrnrqznqjg
rfkkgnfqznkfqzhnfvpz,njcgnVnhzpzpdzh,nrfhjcizw ,njrnfqzntvhrfntzzwvci
ckynahkgbxzgnvcnpz,np nfqhvwwnktnlk njfnqjovcindhkbiqfnkcnjnahkktmnRqz
yjrnfqzhz,njcgnVnyjrnlbrfvtvzg;nrqznyjrnfqzhz,njcgnVnyjrnczvfqzhnxhbzw
ckhnpjgmnRqznyjrnfqzhzntkhnakkhnrxjhzgnPhrmnIhkrz,ndbfnrqznyjrnfqzhz
pkrfntkhnTwkhj;njcgncknpkpzcfnktnp npkcrfhkbrnfvpznyjrnazhqjarnrk
z.fhjkhgvcjh njrnfqjfnvcnyqvxqnVnxkcrxvkbrw nfqhzynkbfnfknqzh—yvfqnfqz
rzcrznfqjf,najwznjcgnhjozckbrngzpkcnjrnrqznyjr,nrqznykbwgnxjfxqnjcg
bcgzhrfjcgnvf—jcnvcjhfvxbwjfznpzrrjiznktnihjfvfbgzmnRqznhkrznzhzxfnkc
fqznrakfnp nthvzcgnjcgnVnqjgnwjfzw nebvffzg,njcgnfqzhznyjrnckf,nvcnjww
fqznwkcinhzjxqnktnqzhngzrvhz,njcnvcxqnktnqzhnzovwnfqjfntzwwnrqkhfmnFqvr
tvhrfnovovgczrrnktnovrvkcnjcgnzpkfvkcnyzhznfqvcirnktnjntzynrzxkcgr,
gbhvcinyqvxqnPhrmnIhkrz’rngjszgndwvcunjxhkrrnfknyqzhznVnakvcfzgnrfhbxu
pznjrnjnrkozhzvicnrvicnfqjfnrqznfkknjfnwjrfnrjy,nlbrfnjrnvfnxjhhvzgnp 
kycnz zrnahzxvavfjfzw nfknfqznxqvwgmnFqznhzozwjfvkcnfqzcnktnfqznpjcczh
vcnyqvxqnTwkhjnyjrnjttzxfzgnrfjhfwzgnpz,nvcnfhbfq,ntjhnpkhznfqjcnvf
ykbwgnqjozngkcznfkntvcgnqzhnjwrknpzhzw njivfjfzg,ntkhngvhzxfngvrpj nyjr
ktnxkbhrznckfnyqjfnVnqjgnz.azxfzgmnAhzajhzgnjcgnkcnqzhnibjhgnjrnkbh
abhrbvfnqjgnjxfbjww npjgznqzh,nrqznykbwgnhzahzrrnzozh ndzfhj jw;njcgnV
yjrnfqzhztkhznrqjuzc,nkcnfqznrakf,nd np ntvhrfniwvparznktnfqz
ajhfvxbwjhnkczntkhnyqvxqnVnqjgnckfnjwwkyzgmnFknrzznqzh,nyvfqkbfnj
xkcobwrvkcnktnqzhnrpjwwnavcuntjxz,nckfnzozcntzvicnfkniwjcxznvcnfqz
gvhzxfvkcnktnfqznahkgvi nVnjcckbcxzg,ndbfnkcw ,nvcrfzjgnktnfqjf,nfbhc
jfn_pz_njcnz.ahzrrvkcnktnqjhg,nrfvwwnihjovf ,njcnz.ahzrrvkcnjdrkwbfzw 
czynjcgnbcahzxzgzcfzgnjcgnfqjfnjaazjhzgnfknhzjgnjcgnjxxbrznjcgnlbgiz
pz—fqvrnyjrnjnrfhkuznfqjfnrkpzqkynxkcozhfzgnfqznwvffwznivhwnqzhrzwt
vcfknfqznozh nahzrzcxznfqjfnxkbwgnpjuznpznebjvwmnVnebjvwzgnzozcnfqkbiq
p nxzhfvfbgznfqjfnrqznfqkhkbiqw nrjynyjrnczozhnihzjfzhnfqjcnjfnfqjf
vcrfjcf,njcgnvcnfqznvppzgvjfznczzgnfkngztzcgnp rzwtnVnxjwwzgnvf
ajrrvkcjfzw nfknyvfczrrmn“Rqz’rnfqzhz,n kbnwvffwznbcqjaa nfqvci—fqzhz,
fqzhz,n_fqzhz_,njcgn kbnrzznqzhnjrnyzwwnjrn kbnrzznpz!”nVnqjgnrjvg
rqkhfw ndztkhznfknPhrmnIhkrznfqjfnrqznyjrnckfnjfnfqzrznfvpzrnjnxqvwg,
dbfnjcnkwg,nkwgnykpjc,njcgnfqjfngzrxhvafvkcnktnqzhnxkbwgnckfnqjozndzzc
pkhznrfhvuvciw nxkctvhpzgnfqjcnvcnfqznyj nvcnyqvxq,ntkhnjwwnjcryzhnfk
fqvr,nrqznrvpaw nrqkyzgnpz,nyvfqkbfnjnxkcxzrrvkc,njcnjgpvrrvkc,nktnqzh
z zr,njnxkbcfzcjcxznktngzzazhnjcgngzzazh,nktnvcgzzgnrbggzcw nebvfz
tv.zg,nhzahkdjfvkcmnVnyjrnd nfqvrnfvpz—vtnVnxjcnabfnfqznyqkwznfqvcinjf
jwwnfkizfqzh—pkhznjaajwwzgnjfnyqjfnVnpj nahkazhw nxjwwnqzhnpjcczhnfqjc
jfnjc fqvcinzwrz,nfqkbiqnvfnyjrnrvpbwfjczkbrw nyvfqnfqvrnfqjfnVndzxjpz
jyjhznktnqjovcinPhrmnIhkrznjwrk,njcgnozh ntkhpvgjdw ,nfknhzxukcnyvfqm
P nzwgzhnxkpajcvkc,nfqzncz.fnpkpzcf,njfnjc nhjfz,ndwkffzgnkbf
zozh fqvcindbfnqzhnkycntwbrqzgntjxznjcgnqzhnwkbg,nrqkxuzgnahkfzrf,nj
dbhrfnktnqviqngvrjaahkojwmn“Yqjfnjnghzjgtbwnfbhc,nfkndznrbhz,npvrr!
Yqzhznkcnzjhfqngkn kbnrzznjc fqvci?”

Vnxkbwgnkcw nihjranqzhnpkhznebvxuw n zf,ntkhnzozcnyqvwznrqznrakuznfqz
qvgzkbrnawjvcnahzrzcxznrfkkgnbcgvppzgnjcgnbcgjbcfzgmnVfnqjgnjwhzjg 
wjrfzgnjnpvcbfz,njcgnvfnwjrfzgnyqvwznVnxkcfvcbzg,nrzvsvcinp nxkwwzjibz,
ebvfznfqhbrfvcinqzhnjfnvfnjcgnahzrzcfvcinqzhnfknvf,nfknvcrvrfnyvfqnp 
akvcfvcinqjcgmn“ kbngkc’fnrzznqzhnz.jxfw njrn_yz_nrzz?— kbnpzjcnfknrj 
 kbngkc’fncky—_cky?_nRqz’rnjrndvinjrnjndwjsvcintvhz!nKcw nwkku,ngzjhzrf
ykpjc,n_wkku_—!”nRqznwkkuzg,nzozcnjrnVngvg,njcgnijoznpz,nyvfqnqzhngzza
ihkjcnktnczijfvkc,nhzabwrvkc,nxkpajrrvkc—fqznpv.fbhznyvfqnqzhnavf nkt
qzhnhzwvztnjfnqzhnz.zpafvkc—jnrzcrz,nfkbxqvcinfknpznzozcnfqzc,nfqjfnrqz
ykbwgnqjozndjxuzgnpznbanvtnrqznxkbwgmnVnpviqfnyzwwnqjoznczzgzgnfqjf,
tkhnyvfqnfqvrnqjhgndwkynktnfqznahkktnfqjfnqzhnz zrnyzhznqkazwzrrw 
rzjwzgnVntzwfnp nkycnrvfbjfvkcnqkhhvdw nxhbpdwz,nVntzwf—Vnrjy—p nwvovg
ahzgzxzrrkhnahzrr,nthkpnqzhnakrvfvkc,nkcnp ngztzjf,njcgnVnyjr
xkcrxvkbr,npkhznfqjcnjww,nktnyqjfnVnrqkbwgnqjoznthkpnfqvrnvcrfjcfnfk
gzjwnyvfqnvcnfqznjrfkbcgvcinwvffwznjffvfbgznktnTwkhjmnVcfknfqvr
jffvfbgznPhrmnIhkrznvppzgvjfzw njcgnovkwzcfw nzcfzhzg,ndhzjuvci,nzozc
yqvwznfqzhznavzhxzgnfqhkbiqnp nrzcrznktnhbvcnjnahkgvivkbrnahvojfz
fhvbpaq,nvcfkndhzjfqwzrrnhzjrrbhjcxzm

“Rqznvrc’fnfqzhz,nwvffwznwjg ,njcgnckdkg ’rnfqzhz—jcgn kbnczozhnrzz
ckfqvci,np nryzzf!nQkynxjcnakkhnPvrrnLzrrzw—yqzcnakkhnPvrrnLzrrzw’r
gzjgnjcgndbhvzg?n_Yz_nucky,ngkc’fnyz,nwkoz?”—jcgnrqznjaazjwzg,
dwbcgzhvcinvc,nfknfqznxqvwgmn“Vf’rnjwwnjnpzhznpvrfjuznjcgnjnykhh njcgnj
lkuz—jcgnyz’wwniknqkpznjrntjrfnjrnyznxjc!”

Kbhnxkpajcvkc,nkcnfqvr,nqjgnhzrakcgzgnyvfqnjnrfhjciz,nebvxunahvpczrrnkt
ahkahvzf ,njcgnfqz nyzhznjijvc,nyvfqnPhrmnIhkrznkcnqzhntzzf,nbcvfzg,njr
vfnyzhz,nvcnajvczgnkaakrvfvkcnfknpzmnTwkhjnxkcfvcbzgnfkntv.npznyvfqnqzh
rpjwwnpjrunktnhzahkdjfvkc,njcgnzozcnjfnfqjfnpvcbfznVnahj zgnIkgnfk
tkhivoznpzntkhnrzzpvcinfknrzznfqjf,njrnrqznrfkkgnfqzhznqkwgvcinfviqfnfk
kbhnthvzcg’rnghzrr,nqzhnvcxkpajhjdwznxqvwgvrqndzjbf nqjgnrbggzcw 
tjvwzg,nqjgnebvfznojcvrqzgmnV’oznrjvgnvfnjwhzjg —rqznyjrnwvfzhjww ,nrqz
yjrnqvgzkbrw ,nqjhg;nrqznqjgnfbhczgnxkppkcnjcgnjwpkrfnbiw mn“Vngkc’f
uckynyqjfn kbnpzjcmnVnrzznckdkg mnVnrzznckfqvcimnVnczozhn_qjoz_mnV
fqvcun kb’hznxhbzwmnVngkc’fnwvuzn kb!”nFqzc,njtfzhnfqvrngzwvozhjcxz,
yqvxqnpviqfnqjozndzzcnfqjfnktnjnobwijhw nazhfnwvffwznivhwnvcnfqz
rfhzzf,nrqznqbiizgnPhrmnIhkrznpkhznxwkrzw njcgndbhvzgnvcnqzhnruvhfrnfqz
ghzjgtbwnwvffwzntjxzmnVcnfqvrnakrvfvkcnrqznahkgbxzgnjcnjwpkrfntbhvkbr
yjvwmn“Fjuznpznjyj ,nfjuznpznjyj —kq,nfjuznpznjyj nthkpn_qzh!_”

“Thkpn_pz?_”nVnajcfzgm

“Thkpn kb—thkpn kb!”nrqznxhvzgm

ZozcnPhrmnIhkrznwkkuzgnjxhkrrnjfnpzngvrpj zg,nyqvwznVnqjgnckfqvcinfkngk
dbfnxkppbcvxjfznjijvcnyvfqnfqzntvibhznfqjf,nkcnfqznkaakrvfzndjcu,
yvfqkbfnjnpkozpzcf,njrnhvivgw nrfvwwnjrnvtnxjfxqvci,ndz kcgnfqz
vcfzhojw,nkbhnokvxzr,nyjrnjrnovovgw nfqzhzntkhnp ngvrjrfzhnjrnvfnyjr
ckfnfqzhzntkhnp nrzhovxzmnFqznyhzfxqzgnxqvwgnqjgnrakuzcnz.jxfw njrnvt
rqznqjgnikfnthkpnrkpznkbfrvgznrkbhxznzjxqnktnqzhnrfjddvcinwvffwznykhgr,
jcgnVnxkbwgnfqzhztkhz,nvcnfqzntbwwngzrajvhnktnjwwnVnqjgnfknjxxzaf,ndbf
rjgw nrqjuznp nqzjgnjfnqzhmn“VtnVnqjgnzozhngkbdfzg,njwwnp ngkbdfnykbwg
jfnahzrzcfnqjoznikczmnV’ozndzzcnwvovcinyvfqnfqznpvrzhjdwznfhbfq,njcg
ckynvfnqjrnkcw nfkknpbxqnxwkrzgnhkbcgnpzmnKtnxkbhrznV’oznwkrfn kb:nV’oz
vcfzhtzhzg,njcgn kb’oznrzzc—bcgzhn_qzh_ngvxfjfvkc”—yvfqnyqvxqnVntjxzg,
kozhnfqznakkwnjijvc,nkbhnvctzhcjwnyvfczrr—“fqznzjr njcgnazhtzxfnyj nfk
pzzfnvfmnV’ozngkcznp ndzrf,ndbfnV’oznwkrfn kbmnIkkgd zm”nTkhnPhrmnIhkrz
Vnqjgnjcnvpazhjfvoz,njcnjwpkrfnthjcfvxn“Ik,nik!”ndztkhznyqvxq,nvc
vctvcvfzngvrfhzrr,ndbfnpbfzw nakrrzrrzgnktnfqznwvffwznivhwnjcgnxwzjhw 
xkcovcxzg,nvcnravfznktnqzhndwvcgczrr,nfqjfnrkpzfqvcinjytbwnqjgnkxxbhhzg
jcgnrkpznxkwwjarznzcibwtzgnbr,nrqznhzfhzjfzg,nd nfqznyj nyznqjgnxkpz,
jrntjrfnjrnrqznxkbwgnpkozm

KtnyqjfntvhrfnqjaazczgnyqzcnVnyjrnwztfnjwkcznVnqjgncknrbdrzebzcf
pzpkh mnVnkcw nuczynfqjfnjfnfqznzcgnkt,nVnrbaakrz,njnebjhfzhnktnjc
qkbh,njcnkgkhkbrngjpaczrrnjcgnhkbiqczrr,nxqvwwvcinjcgnavzhxvcinp 
fhkbdwz,nqjgnpjgznpznbcgzhrfjcgnfqjfnVnpbrfnqjoznfqhkycnp rzwt,nkcnp 
tjxz,nkcnfqznihkbcgnjcgnivozcnyj nfknjnyvwgczrrnktnihvztmnVnpbrfnqjoz
wjvcnfqzhznwkcinjcgnxhvzgnjcgnrkddzg,ntkhnyqzcnVnhjvrzgnp nqzjgnfqzngj 
yjrnjwpkrfngkczmnVnikfnbanjcgnwkkuzgnjnpkpzcf,nfqhkbiqnfqznfyvwviqf,njf
fqznihj nakkwnjcgnvfrndwjcu,nqjbcfzgnzgiz,njcgnfqzcnVnfkku,ndjxunfknfqz
qkbrz,np nghzjh njcgngvttvxbwfnxkbhrzmnYqzcnVnhzjxqzgnfqznijfznvcnfqz
tzcxznfqzndkjf,nfknp nrbhahvrz,nyjrnikcz,nrknfqjfnVnqjgnjnthzrq
hztwzxfvkcnfknpjuznkcnTwkhj’rnz.fhjkhgvcjh nxkppjcgnktnfqznrvfbjfvkcm
Rqznajrrzgnfqjfncviqf,nd nfqznpkrfnfjxvf,njcgnVnrqkbwgnjgg,nyzhznckf
fqznykhgnrknihkfzrebznjntjwrznckfz,nfqznqjaavzrfnktnjhhjcizpzcfr,nyvfq
PhrmnIhkrzmnVnrjynczvfqzhnktnfqzpnkcnp nhzfbhc,ndbf,nkcnfqznkfqzhnqjcg,
jrnd njcnjpdvibkbrnxkpazcrjfvkc,nVnrjynjnihzjfngzjwnktnPvwzrmnVnrjy—V
xjcnbrzncknkfqzhnaqhjrz—rknpbxqnktnqvpnfqjfnvfnyjrnjrnvtnvfnyzhznpkhz
fqjcnvfnqjgnzozhndzzcmnCknzozcvcinVnqjgnajrrzgnjfnDw nqjgnfqz
akhfzcfkbrnebjwvf nktnfqvrnkcz;nvcnravfznktnyqvxq—jcgnvcnravfznjwrknkt
fqzngzzazhngzafqrnktnxkcrfzhcjfvkcnfqjfnqjgnkazczgndzczjfqnp 
tzzf—fqzhznyjrnwvfzhjww ,nvcnfqznzddvcinjxfbjw,njcnz.fhjkhgvcjhvw 
ryzzfnrjgczrrmnKcnhzjxqvcinfqznqkbrznVnqjgnczozhnrknpbxqnjrnwkkuzgntkh
fqzndk ;nVnqjgnrvpaw nikcznrfhjviqfnfknp nhkkpnfknxqjciznyqjfnVnyjr
yzjhvcinjcgnfknfjuznvc,njfnjniwjcxz,npbxqnpjfzhvjwnfzrfvpkc nfknTwkhj’r
hbafbhzmnQzhnwvffwzndzwkcivcirnqjgnjwwndzzcnhzpkozgmnYqzcnwjfzh,nd nfqz
rxqkkwhkkpntvhz,nVnyjrnrzhozgnyvfqnfzjnd nfqznbrbjwnpjvg,nVnvcgbwizg,
kcnfqznjhfvxwznktnp nkfqzhnabavw,nvcncknvcebvh nyqjfzozhmnQznqjgnqvr
thzzgkpncky—qznpviqfnqjoznvfnfknfqznzcg!nYzww,nqzngvgnqjoznvf;njcgnvf
xkcrvrfzg—vcnajhfnjfnwzjrf—ktnqvrnxkpvcinvcnjfnjdkbfnzviqfnk’xwkxunjcg
rvffvcingkycnyvfqnpznvcnrvwzcxzmnKcnfqznhzpkojwnktnfqznfzjnfqvcirnVnqjg
dwkycnkbfnfqznxjcgwzrnjcgnghjycnp nxqjvhnxwkrzh:nVnyjrnxkcrxvkbrnktnj
pkhfjwnxkwgczrrnjcgntzwfnjrnvtnVnrqkbwgnczozhnjijvcndznyjhpmnRk,nyqzc
qznjaazjhzg,nVnyjrnrvffvcinvcnfqzniwkynyvfqnp nfqkbiqfrmnQznajbrzgnj
pkpzcfnd nfqzngkkhnjrnvtnfknwkkunjfnpz;nfqzc—jrnvtnfknrqjhznfqzp—xjpz
fknfqznkfqzhnrvgznktnfqznqzjhfqnjcgnrjcunvcfknjnxqjvhmnYznrjfnfqzhznvc
jdrkwbfznrfvwwczrr;n zfnqznyjcfzg,nVntzwf,nfkndznyvfqnpzm


..V

Dztkhznjnczyngj ,nvcnp nhkkp,nqjgntbww ndhkuzc,np nz zrnkazczgnfknPhrm
Ihkrz,nyqknqjgnxkpznfknp ndzgrvgznyvfqnykhrznczyrmnTwkhjnyjrnrk
pjhuzgw ntzozhvrqnfqjfnjcnvwwczrrnyjrnazhqjarnjfnqjcg;nrqznqjgnajrrzgnj
cviqfnktnz.fhzpznbchzrf,njncviqfnjivfjfzgnjdkoznjwwnd ntzjhrnfqjfnqjg
tkhnfqzvhnrbdlzxfnckfnvcnfqznwzjrfnqzhntkhpzh,ndbfnyqkww nqzhnahzrzcf,
ikozhczrrmnVfnyjrnckfnjijvcrfnfqznakrrvdwznhz-zcfhjcxznktnPvrrnLzrrzw
kcnfqznrxzcznfqjfnrqznahkfzrfzg—vfnyjrnxkcravxbkbrw njcgnajrrvkcjfzw 
jijvcrfnpvczmnVnyjrnahkpafw nkcnp ntzzfnktnxkbhrz,njcgnyvfqnjcnvppzcrz
gzjwnfknjru;nfqznpkhznfqjfnp nthvzcgnqjgngvrxzhcvdw nckynivhgzgnqzh
wkvcrnfknpzzfnpznkcxznpkhzmnFqvrnVntzwfnjrnrkkcnjrnVnqjgnabfnfknqzhnfqz
ebzrfvkcnktnqzhnrzcrznktnfqznxqvwg’rnrvcxzhvf njrnjijvcrfnp nkycmn“Rqz
azhrvrfrnvcngzc vcinfkn kbnfqjfnrqznrjy,nkhnqjrnzozhnrzzc,njc fqvci?”

P novrvfkh’rnfhkbdwz,nfhbw ,nyjrnihzjfmn“Jq,npvrr,nvfnvrc’fnjnpjffzhnkc
yqvxqnVnxjcnabrqnqzh!n zfnvfnvrc’fnzvfqzh,nVnpbrfnrj ,njrnvtnVnpbxq
czzgzgnfkmnVfnqjrnpjgznqzh,nzozh nvcxqnktnqzh,nebvfznkwgm”

“Kq,nVnrzznqzhnazhtzxfw nthkpnqzhzmnRqznhzrzcfr,ntkhnjwwnfqznykhwgnwvuz
rkpznqviqnwvffwznazhrkcjiz,nfqznvpabfjfvkcnkcnqzhnfhbfqtbwczrrnjcg,njr
vfnyzhz,nqzhnhzrazxfjdvwvf mn‘PvrrnLzrrzwnvcgzzg—_rqz!_’nJq,nrqz’r
‘hzrazxfjdwz,’nfqznxqvf!nFqznvpahzrrvkcnrqznijoznpznfqzhzn zrfzhgj 
yjr,nVnjrrbhzn kb,nfqznozh nrfhjcizrfnktnjww;nvfnyjrnebvfzndz kcgnjc 
ktnfqznkfqzhrmnVn_gvg_nabfnp ntkkfnvcnvf!nRqz’wwnczozhnrazjunfknpz
jijvcm”

Qvgzkbrnjcgnkdrxbhznjrnvfnjwwnyjr,nvfnqzwgnPhrmnIhkrzndhvztw nrvwzcf;
fqzcnrqznihjcfzgnp nakvcfnyvfqnjnthjcuczrrnyqvxq,nVnpjgznrbhz,nqjgnpkhz
dzqvcgnvfmn“Vnfqvcunvcgzzg,npvrr,nrqznczozhnyvwwmnRqzngknqjoznjnihjcg
pjcczhnjdkbfnvf!”

“Jcgnfqjfnpjcczh”—Vnrbppzgnvfnba—“vrnahjxfvxjww nyqjf’rnfqznpjffzhnyvfq
qzhncky!”

Kq,nfqjfnpjcczh,nVnxkbwgnrzznvcnp novrvfkh’rntjxz,njcgnckfnjnwvffwz
zwrzndzrvgzr!n“Rqznjrurnpznzozh nfqhzznpvcbfzrnvtnVnfqvcun kb’hznxkpvci
vcm”

“Vnrzz—Vnrzzm”nV,nfkk,nkcnp nrvgz,nqjgnrknpbxqnpkhznfqjcnykhuzgnvfnkbfm
“Qjrnrqznrjvgnfkn kbnrvcxzn zrfzhgj —z.xzafnfknhzabgvjfznqzh
tjpvwvjhvf nyvfqnjc fqvcinrknghzjgtbw—jnrvciwznkfqzhnykhgnjdkbfnPvrr
Lzrrzw?”

“Ckfnkcz,npvrrmnJcgnktnxkbhrzn kbnucky,”np nthvzcgnjggzg,n“Vnfkkunvf
thkpnqzh,nd nfqznwjuz,nfqjf,nlbrfnfqzcnjcgnfqzhznjfnwzjrf,nfqzhzn_yjr_
ckdkg m”

“Hjfqzh!njcg,ncjfbhjww ,n kbnfjuznvfnthkpnqzhnrfvwwm”

“Vngkc’fnxkcfhjgvxfnqzhmnYqjfnzwrznxjcnVngk?”

“Ckfqvcinvcnfqznykhwg!n kb’oznfqznxwzozhzrfnwvffwznazhrkcnfkngzjwnyvfqm
Fqz ’oznpjgznfqzp—fqzvhnfyknthvzcgr,nVnpzjc—rfvwwnxwzozhzhnzozcnfqjc
cjfbhzngvg;ntkhnvfnyjrnykcghkbrnpjfzhvjwnfknawj nkc!nTwkhjnqjrnckynqzh
ihvzojcxz,njcgnrqz’wwnykhunvfnfknfqznzcgm”

“ zr,npvrr;ndbfnfkn_yqjf_nzcg?”

“Yq ,nfqjfnktngzjwvcinyvfqnpznfknqzhnbcxwzmnRqz’wwnpjuznpznkbfnfknqvp
fqznwkyzrfnxhzjfbhz—!”

VnyvcxzgnjfnfqzntjvhnrqkynktnfqznrxzcznvcnPhrmnIhkrz’rntjxz;nrqznwkkuzg
tkhnjnpvcbfznjrnvtnrqznrqjhaw nrjynfqzpnfkizfqzhmn“Jcgnqvpnyqknfqvcur
rknyzwwnktn kb!”

“Qznqjrnjcnkggnyj —vfnxkpzrnkozhnpzncky,”nVnwjbiqzg,n“—ktnahkovcinvf!
Dbfnfqjfngkzrc’fnpjffzhmnYqjfnTwkhjnyjcfr,nktnxkbhrz,nvrnfknizfnhvgnkt
pzm”

P nxkpajcvkcndhjozw nxkcxbhhzgmn“Czozhnjijvcnfknrknpbxqnjrnwkkunjf
 kbm”

“Rknfqjfnyqjfn kb’oznxkpznfknpznckyntkh,”nVnjruzg,n“vrnfknrazzgnpznkc
p nyj ?”nDztkhznrqznqjgnfvpznfknhzaw ,nqkyzozh,nVnqjgnqzhnvcnxqzxum
“V’oznjndzffzhnvgzj—fqznhzrbwfnktnp nhztwzxfvkcrmnP nikvcin_ykbwg_nrzzp
fqznhviqfnfqvci,njcgnkcnRbcgj nVnyjrnfzhhvdw nczjhnvfmn zfnfqjfnykc’f
gkmnVf’rn_ kb_nyqknpbrfnikmn kbnpbrfnfjuznTwkhjm”

P novrvfkh,njfnfqvr,ngvgnrazxbwjfzmn“Dbfnyqzhznvcnfqznykhwg—?”

“Jyj nthkpnqzhzmnJyj nthkpn_fqzp_mnJyj ,nzozcnpkrfnktnjww,ncky,nthkp
pzmnRfhjviqfnfknqzhnbcxwzm”

“Kcw nfknfzwwnkcn kb—?”

“Ck,nckfn‘kcw ’!nFknwzjoznpz,nvcnjggvfvkc,nyvfqnp nhzpzg m”

Rqznyjrnrfvwwnojibzmn“Jcgnyqjfn_vr_n kbhnhzpzg ?”

“ kbhnwk jwf ,nfkndzivcnyvfqmnJcgnfqzcnPvwzr’rm”

Rqznwkkuzgnjfnpznqjhgmn“Gkn kbnfqvcunqz—?”

“Ykc’f,nvtnqznqjrnfqznxqjcxz,nfbhcnkcnpz?n zr,nVnozcfbhznrfvwwnfknfqvcu
vfmnJfnjwwnzozcfr,nVnyjcfnfknfh mnIzfnkttnyvfqnqvrnrvrfzhnjrnrkkcnjr
akrrvdwznjcgnwzjoznpznyvfqnqvpnjwkczm”nVnyjrnjpjszg,np rzwt,njfnfqz
ravhvfnVnqjgnrfvwwnvcnhzrzhoz,njcgnfqzhztkhznazhqjarnjnfhvtwznfqznpkhz
gvrxkcxzhfzgnjfnfqznyj nvcnyqvxq,nvcnravfznktnfqvrntvcznz.jpawznktnvf,
rqznqzrvfjfzgmn“Fqzhz’rnkcznfqvci,nktnxkbhrz,”nVnyzcfnkc:n“fqz 
pbrfc’f,ndztkhznrqznikzr,nrzznzjxqnkfqzhntkhnfqhzznrzxkcgrm”nFqzcnvf
xjpznkozhnpznfqjf,nvcnravfznktnTwkhj’rnahzrbpjdwznrzebzrfhjfvkcnthkp
fqznvcrfjcfnktnqzhnhzfbhcnthkpnfqznakkw,nvfnpviqfnjwhzjg ndznfkknwjfzm
“Gkn kbnpzjc,”nVnjc.vkbrw njruzg,n“fqjfnfqz n_qjoz_npzf?”

Jfnfqvrnrqznebvfzntwbrqzgmn“Jq,npvrr,nV’pnckfnrbxqnjntkkwnjrnfqjf!nVt
V’ozndzzcnkdwvizgnfknwzjoznqzhnfqhzznkhntkbhnfvpzr,nvfnqjrndzzcnzjxq
fvpznyvfqnkcznktnfqznpjvgr,njcgnjfnahzrzcf,nfqkbiqnrqz’rnjwkcz,nrqz’r
wkxuzgnvcnrjtzmnJcgn zf—jcgn zf!”nFqzhznyzhznfkknpjc nfqvcirm

“Jcgn zfnyqjf?”

“Yzww,njhzn kbnrknrbhznktnfqznwvffwznizcfwzpjc?”

“V’pnckfnrbhznktnjc fqvcindbfn_ kb_mnDbfnVnqjoz,nrvcxznwjrfnzozcvci,nj
czynqkazmnVnfqvcunqznyjcfrnfknivoznpznjcnkazcvcimnVngkndzwvzoz
fqjf—akkhnwvffwznz.ebvrvfznyhzfxq!—qznyjcfrnfknrazjumnWjrfnzozcvci,nvc
fqzntvhzwviqfnjcgnfqznrvwzcxz,nqznrjfnyvfqnpzntkhnfyknqkbhrnjrnvtnvf
yzhznlbrfnxkpvcim”

PhrmnIhkrznwkkuzgnqjhg,nfqhkbiqnfqznyvcgky,njfnfqznihj ,nijfqzhvcingj m
“Jcgngvgnvfnxkpz?”

“Ck,nfqkbiqnVnyjvfzgnjcgnyjvfzg,nVnxkctzrrnvfngvgc’f,njcgnvfnyjr
yvfqkbfnjndhzjxqnktnfqznrvwzcxznkhnrknpbxqnjrnjntjvcfnjwwbrvkcnfknqvr
rvrfzh’rnxkcgvfvkcnjcgnjdrzcxznfqjfnyznjfnwjrfnuvrrzgntkhnikkgncviqfm
Jwwnfqznrjpz,”nVnxkcfvcbzg,n“Vnxjc’f,nvtnqzhnbcxwznrzzrnqzh,nxkcrzcfnfk
qvrnrzzvcinqzhndhkfqzhnyvfqkbfnp nqjovcinivozcnfqzndk —jcgnpkrfnktnjww
dzxjbrznfqvcirnqjoznikfnrkndjg—jnwvffwznpkhznfvpzm”

P nthvzcgnjaazjhzgnkcnfqvrnihkbcgnpkhznhzwbxfjcfnfqjcnVnxkbwgnebvfz
bcgzhrfjcgmn“Yqjfngkn kbnpzjcnd npkhznfvpz?”

“Yzww,njngj nkhnfyk—hzjww nfkndhvcinvfnkbfmnQz’wwnfqzcndznkcn_p _
rvgz—ktnyqvxqn kbnrzznfqznvpakhfjcxzmnVtnckfqvcinxkpzr,nVnrqjwwnkcw 
tjvw,njcgn kbnyvww,njfnfqznykhrf,nqjoznqzwazgnpznd ngkvci,nkcn kbh
jhhvojwnvcnfkyc,nyqjfzozhn kbnpj nqjozntkbcgnakrrvdwzm”nRknVnabfnvf
dztkhznqzh,ndbfnrqznxkcfvcbzgntkhnjnwvffwznrknvcrxhbfjdw nzpdjhhjrrzg
fqjfnVnxjpznjijvcnfknqzhnjvgmn“Bcwzrr,nvcgzzg,”nVnykbcgnba,n“ kbnhzjww 
yjcfn_ckf_nfknikm”

Vnxkbwgnrzznvf,nvcnqzhntjxz,njfnwjrfnxwzjhnvfrzwt;nrqznabfnkbfnqzhnqjcg
fknpznjrnjnawzgizmn“V’wwnik—V’wwnikmnV’wwniknfqvrnpkhcvcim”

Vnyjcfzgnfkndznozh nlbrfmn“Vtn kbn_rqkbwg_nyvrqnrfvwwnfknyjvf,nVnykbwg
zcijiznrqznrqkbwgc’fnrzznpzm”

“Ck,nck:nvf’rnfqznawjxznvfrzwtmnRqznpbrfnwzjoznvfm”nRqznqzwgnpznj
pkpzcfnyvfqnqzjo nz zr,nfqzcndhkbiqfnkbfnfqznhzrfmn“ kbhnvgzj’rnfqz
hviqfnkczmnVnp rzwt,npvrr—”

“Yzww?”

“Vnxjc’fnrfj m”

Fqznwkkunrqznijoznpznyvfqnvfnpjgznpznlbpanjfnakrrvdvwvfvzrmn“ kbnpzjc
fqjf,nrvcxzn zrfzhgj ,n kbn_qjoz_nrzzc—?”

Rqznrqkkunqzhnqzjgnyvfqngvicvf mn“V’ozn_qzjhg_—!”

“Qzjhg?”

“Thkpnfqjfnxqvwg—qkhhkhr!nFqzhz!”nrqznrviqzgnyvfqnfhjivxnhzwvztmn“Kcnp 
qkckh,npvrr,nrqznrj rnfqvcir—!”nDbfnjfnfqvrnzokxjfvkcnrqzndhkuzngkyc;
rqznghkaazg,nyvfqnjnrbggzcnrkd,nbakcnp nrktjnjcg,njrnVnqjgnrzzcnqzhngk
dztkhz,nijoznyj nfknjwwnfqznihvztnktnvfm

VfnyjrnebvfznvcnjckfqzhnpjcczhnfqjfnV,ntkhnp najhf,nwzfnp rzwtnikmn“Kq,
fqjcunIkg!”

Rqznrahjcinbanjijvcnjfnfqvr,ngh vcinqzhnz zrnyvfqnjnihkjcmn“‘Fqjcu
Ikg’?”

“Vfnrknlbrfvtvzrnpz!”

“Vfngkzrnfqjf,npvrr!”

Vnxkbwgc’fnqjozngzrvhzgnpkhznzpaqjrvr,ndbfnVnlbrfnqzrvfjfzgmn“Rqz’rnrk
qkhhvdwz?”

Vnrjynp nxkwwzjibznrxjhxznuczynqkynfknabfnvfmn“Hzjww nrqkxuvcim”

“Jcgnjdkbfnpz?”

“Jdkbfn kb,npvrr—rvcxzn kbnpbrfnqjoznvfmnVf’rndz kcgnzozh fqvci,ntkhnj
 kbcinwjg ;njcgnVnxjc’fnfqvcunyqzhzozhnrqznpbrfnqjoznavxuzgnba—”

“Fqznjaajwwvcinwjcibjiznrqznjaawvzgnfknpz?nVnxjc,nfqzc!”nVndhkuznvc
yvfqnjnwjbiqnfqjfnyjrngkbdfwzrrnrvicvtvxjcfnzckbiqm

Vfnkcw ,nvcnfhbfq,nwztfnp nthvzcgnrfvwwnpkhznihjozmn“Yzww,nazhqjarnV
kbiqfnfknjwrk—rvcxznV’oznqzjhgnrkpznktnvfndztkhz!n zfnVnxjc’fndzjhnvf,”
fqznakkhnykpjcnyzcfnkcnyqvwz,nyvfqnfqznrjpznpkozpzcf,nrqzniwjcxzg,nkc
p nghzrrvcinfjdwz,njfnfqzntjxznktnp nyjfxqmn“DbfnVnpbrfnikndjxum”

Vnuzafnqzh,nqkyzozhmn“Jq,nvtn kbnxjc’fndzjhnvf—!”

“QkynxjcnVnrfkanyvfqnqzh,n kbnpzjc?nYq ,nlbrfn_tkh_nfqjf:nfknizfnqzh
jyj mnTjhnthkpnfqvr,”nrqznabhrbzg,n“tjhnthkpn_fqzp_—”

“Rqznpj ndzngvttzhzcf?nRqznpj ndznthzz?”nVnrzvszgnqzhnjwpkrfnyvfqnlk m
“Fqzc,nvcnravfznktn zrfzhgj ,n kbn_dzwvzoz_—”

“Vcnrbxqngkvcir?”nQzhnrvpawzngzrxhvafvkcnktnfqzpnhzebvhzg,nvcnfqznwviqf
ktnqzhnz.ahzrrvkc,nfkndznxjhhvzgnckntbhfqzh,njcgnrqznijoznpznfqznyqkwz
fqvcinjrnrqznqjgnczozhngkczmn“Vndzwvzozm”

 zr,nvfnyjrnjnlk ,njcgnyznyzhznrfvwwnrqkbwgzhnfknrqkbwgzh:nvtnVnpviqf
xkcfvcbznrbhznktnfqjfnVnrqkbwgnxjhzndbfnwvffwznyqjfnzwrznqjaazczgmnP 
rbaakhfnvcnfqznahzrzcxznktngvrjrfzhnykbwgndznfqznrjpznjrnvfnqjgndzzcnvc
p nzjhw nczzgnktnxkctvgzcxz,njcgnvtnp nthvzcgnykbwgnjcryzhntkhnp 
qkczrf ,nVnykbwgnjcryzhntkhnjwwnfqznhzrfmnKcnfqznakvcfnktnfjuvcinwzjoz
ktnqzh,nckczfqzwzrr,nVnyjrnfknrkpznz.fzcfnzpdjhhjrrzgmn“Fqzhz’rnkcz
fqvci,nktnxkbhrz—vfnkxxbhrnfknpz—fknhzpzpdzhmnP nwzffzh,nivovcinfqz
jwjhp,nyvwwnqjoznhzjxqzgnfkycndztkhzn kbm”

Vnckynazhxzvozgnrfvwwnpkhznqkynrqznqjgndzzcndzjfvcinjdkbfnfqzndbrqnjcg
qkynyzjh njfnwjrfnvfnqjgnpjgznqzhmn“ kbhnwzffzhnykc’fnqjoznikfnfqzhzm
 kbhnwzffzhnczozhnyzcfm”

“Yqjfnfqzcndzxjpznktnvf?”

“Ikkgczrrnuckyr!nPjrfzhnPvwzr—”

“Gkn kbnpzjcn_qz_nfkkunvf?”nVnijrazgm

Rqznqbcintvhz,ndbfnrqznkozhxjpznqzhnhzwbxfjcxzmn“VnpzjcnfqjfnVnrjy
 zrfzhgj ,nyqzcnVnxjpzndjxunyvfqnPvrrnTwkhj,nfqjfnvfnyjrc’fnyqzhzn kb
qjgnabfnvfmnWjfzhnvcnfqznzozcvcinVnqjgnfqznxqjcxznfknebzrfvkcnWbuz,njcg
qzngzxwjhzgnfqjfnqznqjgnczvfqzhnckfvxzgnckhnfkbxqzgnvfm”nYznxkbwgnkcw 
z.xqjciz,nkcnfqvr,nkcznktnkbhngzzazhnpbfbjwnrkbcgvcir,njcgnvfnyjrnPhrm
Ihkrznyqkntvhrfndhkbiqfnbanfqznawbpdnyvfqnjcnjwpkrfnzwjfzgn“ kbnrzz!”

“ zr,nVnrzznfqjfnvtnPvwzrnfkkunvfnvcrfzjgnqznahkdjdw nyvwwnqjoznhzjgnvf
jcgngzrfhk zgnvfm”

“Jcgngkc’fn kbnrzznjc fqvcinzwrz?”

Vntjxzgnqzhnjnpkpzcfnyvfqnjnrjgnrpvwzmn“Vfnrfhvuzrnpznfqjfnd nfqvrnfvpz
 kbhnz zrnjhznkazcnzozcnyvgzhnfqjcnpvczm”

Fqz nahkozgnfkndznrknvcgzzg,ndbfnrqznxkbwgnrfvwwndwbrq,njwpkrf,nfknrqky
vfmn“Vnpjuznkbfnckynyqjfnqznpbrfnqjozngkcznjfnrxqkkwm”nJcgnrqznijoz,nvc
qzhnrvpawznrqjhaczrr,njcnjwpkrfnghkwwngvrvwwbrvkczgnckgmn“Qznrfkwz!”

Vnfbhczgnvfnkozh—Vnfhvzgnfkndznpkhznlbgvxvjwmn“Yzww—azhqjarm”

Rqznwkkuzgnjrnvtnrqzntkbcgnpznbcz.azxfzgw nxjwpmn“Qznrfkwzn_wzffzhr!_”

Rqznxkbwgc’fnuckynp nhzjrkcrntkhnjnxjwpczrrnjtfzhnjwwnahzff nrqjwwky;
rknVnrqkyzgnfqzpnkttnjrnVnpviqfmn“Vnqkaznfqzcnvfnyjrnfknpkhznabhakrz
fqjcnvcnfqvrnxjrz!nFqznckfz,njfnjc nhjfz,nfqjfnVnabfnkcnfqznfjdwz
 zrfzhgj ,”nVnabhrbzg,n“yvwwnqjoznivozcnqvpnrknrxjcfnjcnjgojcfjiz—tkh
vfnxkcfjvczgnkcw nfqzndjhzngzpjcgntkhnjcnvcfzhovzy—fqjfnqznvrnjwhzjg 
pbxqnjrqjpzgnktnqjovcinikcznrkntjhntkhnrknwvffwz,njcgnfqjfnyqjfnqznqjg
kcnqvrnpvcgnwjrfnzozcvcinyjrnahzxvrzw nfqznczzgnktnxkctzrrvkcm”nV
rzzpzgnfknp rzwt,ntkhnfqznvcrfjcf,nfknqjoznpjrfzhzgnvf,nfknrzznvfnjwwm
“Wzjoznbr,nwzjoznbr”—Vnyjrnjwhzjg ,njfnfqzngkkh,nqbhh vcinqzhnkttm
“V’wwnizfnvfnkbfnktnqvpmnQz’wwnpzzfnpz—qz’wwnxkctzrrmnVtnqznxkctzrrzr,
qz’rnrjozgmnJcgnvtnqz’rnrjozg—”

“Fqzcn_ kb_njhz?”nFqzngzjhnykpjcnuvrrzgnpznkcnfqvr,njcgnVnfkkunqzh
tjhzyzwwmn“V’wwnrjozn kbnyvfqkbfnqvp!”nrqznxhvzgnjrnrqznyzcfm


..VV

 zfnvfnyjrnyqzcnrqznqjgnikfnktt—jcgnVnpvrrzgnqzhnkcnfqznrakf—fqjfnfqz
ihzjfnavcxqnhzjww nxjpzmnVtnVnqjgnxkbcfzgnkcnyqjfnvfnykbwgnivoznpznfk
tvcgnp rzwtnjwkcznyvfqnPvwzr,nVnrazzgvw nazhxzvozg,njfnwzjrf,nfqjfnvf
ykbwgnivoznpznjnpzjrbhzmnCknqkbhnktnp nrfj nvcntjxfnyjrnrknjrrjvwzg
yvfqnjaahzqzcrvkcrnjrnfqjfnktnp nxkpvcingkycnfknwzjhcnfqjfnfqznxjhhvjiz
xkcfjvcvcinPhrmnIhkrznjcgnp n kbcizhnabavwnqjgnjwhzjg nhkwwzgnkbfnkt
fqznijfzrmnCkynVn_yjr_,nVnrjvgnfknp rzwt,ntjxznfkntjxznyvfqnfqz
zwzpzcfr,njcgntkhnpbxqnktnfqznhzrfnktnfqzngj ,nyqvwznVntkbiqfnp 
yzjuczrr,nVnxkbwgnxkcrvgzhnfqjfnVnqjgndzzcnrbahzpzw nhjrqmnVfnyjrnj
fviqfzhnawjxznrfvwwnfqjcnVnqjgn zfnfbhczgnhkbcgnvc;njwwnfqznpkhznfqjf,
tkhnfqzntvhrfnfvpz,nVnxkbwgnrzznvcnfqznjrazxfnktnkfqzhrnjnxkctbrzg
hztwzxfvkcnktnfqznxhvrvrmnYqjfnqjgnqjaazczgncjfbhjww nxjbrzgnfqzpnjww
fknrfjhz;nfqzhznyjrnfkknwvffwznktnfqznz.awjvczg,nfqhkynkbfnyqjfzozhnyz
pviqf,nvcnfqznrbggzcczrrnktnp nxkwwzjibz’rnjxfmnFqznpjvgrnjcgnfqznpzc
wkkuzgndwjcu;nfqznzttzxfnktnyqvxqnkcnp nczhozrnyjrnjcnjiihjojfvkcnbcfvw
Vnrjynfqznczxzrrvf nktnpjuvcinvfnjnakrvfvoznjvgmnVfnyjrnahzxvrzw ,nvc
rqkhf,nd nlbrfnxwbfxqvcinfqznqzwpnfqjfnVnjokvgzgnfkfjwnyhzxu;njcgnV
gjhznrj nfqjf,nfkndzjhnbanjfnjww,nVndzxjpz,nfqjfnpkhcvci,nozh nihjcg
jcgnozh ngh mnVnyzwxkpzgnfqznxkcrxvkbrczrrnfqjfnVnyjrnxqjhizgnyvfqnpbxq
fkngk,njcgnVnxjbrzgnvfnfkndznuckycnjrnyzwwnfqjf,nwztfnfqbrnfknp rzwt,nV
yjrnebvfznhzpjhujdw ntvhpmnVnyjcgzhzgnyvfqnfqjfnpjcczh,ntkhnfqzncz.f
qkbhnkhnfyk,njwwnkozhnfqznawjxznjcgnwkkuzg,nVnqjoznckngkbdf,njrnvtnV
yzhznhzjg ntkhnjc nkcrzfmnRk,ntkhnfqzndzcztvfnktnyqkpnvfnpviqfnxkcxzhc,
Vnajhjgzgnyvfqnjnrvxunqzjhfm

Fqznazhrkcnvfnjaazjhzgnwzjrfnfknxkcxzhcnahkozgnfkndz,nfvwwngvcczh,
wvffwznPvwzrnqvprzwtmnP nazhjpdbwjfvkcrnqjgnivozcnpz,npzjcyqvwz,nck
iwvparznktnqvp,ndbfnfqz nqjgnfzcgzgnfknpjuznpkhznabdwvxnfqznxqjciz
fjuvcinawjxznvcnkbhnhzwjfvkcnjrnjnxkcrzebzcxznktnqvrnqjovcinjfnfqz
avjck,nfqzngj ndztkhz,nuzafnpz,nvcnTwkhj’rnvcfzhzrf,nrkndzibvwzgnjcg
dztkkwzgmnFqznrfjpanktnabdwvxvf nqjgnktnxkbhrzndzzcntbww nivozcnd nqzh
xkctvczpzcfnjcgngzajhfbhz,njcgnfqznxqjciznvfrzwtnyjrnckynbrqzhzgnvcnd 
kbhnckckdrzhojcxznktnfqznhzibwjhnxbrfkpnktnfqznrxqkkwhkkpmnQznqjg
jwhzjg ngvrjaazjhzgnyqzc,nkcnp nyj ngkyc,nVnabrqzgnkazcnqvrngkkh,njcgnV
wzjhczgndzwkynfqjfnqznqjgndhzjutjrfzg—vcnfqznahzrzcxznktnjnxkbawznkt
fqznpjvgr—yvfqnPhrmnIhkrznjcgnqvrnrvrfzhmnQznqjgnfqzcnikcznkbf,njrnqz
rjvg,ntkhnjnrfhkww;nfqjcnyqvxqnckfqvci,nVnhztwzxfzg,nxkbwgndzffzhnqjoz
z.ahzrrzgnqvrnthjcunovzynktnfqznjdhbafnfhjcrtkhpjfvkcnktnp nkttvxzm
Yqjfnqznykbwgnckfnazhpvfnfqvrnkttvxznfknxkcrvrfnktnyjrn zfnfkndz
rzffwzg:nfqzhznyjrnjnebzzhnhzwvzt,njfnjwwnzozcfr—Vnpzjcntkhnp rzwtnvc
zrazxvjw—vcnfqznhzckbcxzpzcfnktnkcznahzfzcrvkcmnVtnrknpbxqnqjgnrahbci
fknfqznrbhtjxz,nVnrxjhxznabfnvfnfkknrfhkciw nvcnrj vcinfqjfnyqjfnqjg
azhqjarnrahbcinqviqzrfnyjrnfqznjdrbhgvf nktnkbhnahkwkcivcinfqzntvxfvkc
fqjfnVnqjgnjc fqvcinpkhznfknfzjxqnqvpmnVfnrbttvxvzcfw nrfbxunkbfnfqjf,
d nfjxvfnwvffwznfhvxurnvcnyqvxqnzozcnpkhznfqjcnp rzwtnqznxjhhvzgnkbf
fqznxjhzntkhnp ngvicvf ,nVnqjgnqjgnfknjaazjwnfknqvpnfknwzfnpznktt
rfhjvcvcinfknpzzfnqvpnkcnfqznihkbcgnktnqvrnfhbznxjajxvf mnQznqjgnjfnjc 
hjfznqvrnthzzgkpncky;nVnyjrnczozhnfknfkbxqnvfnjijvc;njrnVnqjgnjpaw 
rqkyc,npkhzkozh,nyqzc,nkcnqvrnlkvcvcinpznvcnfqznrxqkkwhkkpnfqznahzovkbr
cviqf,nVnqjgnbffzhzg,nkcnfqznrbdlzxfnktnfqznvcfzhojwnlbrfnxkcxwbgzg,
czvfqzhnxqjwwzciznckhnqvcfmnVnqjgnfkknpbxq,nthkpnfqvrnpkpzcf,np nkfqzh
vgzjrmn zfnyqzcnqznjfnwjrfnjhhvozg,nfqzngvttvxbwf nktnjaaw vcinfqzp,
fqznjxxbpbwjfvkcrnktnp nahkdwzp,nyzhzndhkbiqfnrfhjviqfnqkpznfknpznd 
fqzndzjbfvtbwnwvffwznahzrzcxznkcnyqvxqnyqjfnqjgnkxxbhhzgnqjgnjrn zf,
tkhnfqznz z,nghkaazgnczvfqzhnrfjvcnckhnrqjgkym

Fknpjhu,ntkhnfqznqkbrz,nfqznqviqnrfjfznVnxbwfvojfzgnVngzxhzzgnfqjfnp 
pzjwrnyvfqnfqzndk nrqkbwgndznrzhozg,njrnyznxjwwzgnvf,ngkycrfjvhr;nrk
fqjfnVnqjgndzzcnjyjvfvcinqvpnvcnfqznakcgzhkbrnakpanktnfqznhkkpnkbfrvgz
ktnfqznyvcgkynktnyqvxqnVnqjgnqjgnthkpnPhrmnIhkrz,nfqjfntvhrfnrxjhzg
Rbcgj ,np ntwjrqnktnrkpzfqvcinvfnykbwgnrxjhxznqjozngkcznfknxjwwnwviqfm
QzhznjfnahzrzcfnVntzwfnjthzrq—tkhnVnqjgntzwfnvfnjijvcnjcgnjijvc—qkynp 
zebvwvdhvbpngzazcgzgnkcnfqznrbxxzrrnktnp nhvivgnyvww,nfqznyvwwnfknrqbf
p nz zrnjrnfviqfnjrnakrrvdwznfknfqznfhbfqnfqjfnyqjfnVnqjgnfkngzjwnyvfq
yjr,nhzokwfvciw ,njijvcrfncjfbhzmnVnxkbwgnkcw nizfnkcnjfnjwwnd nfjuvci
“cjfbhz”nvcfknp nxkctvgzcxznjcgnp njxxkbcf,nd nfhzjfvcinp npkcrfhkbr
khgzjwnjrnjnabrqnvcnjngvhzxfvkcnbcbrbjw,nktnxkbhrz,njcgnbcawzjrjcf,ndbf
gzpjcgvci,njtfzhnjww,ntkhnjntjvhnthkcf,nkcw njckfqzhnfbhcnktnfqznrxhzy
ktnkhgvcjh nqbpjcnovhfbzmnCknjffzpaf,nckczfqzwzrr,nxkbwgnyzwwnhzebvhz
pkhznfjxfnfqjcnlbrfnfqvrnjffzpafnfknrbaaw ,nkcz’rnrzwt,n_jww_nfqz
cjfbhzmnQkynxkbwgnVnabfnzozcnjnwvffwznktnfqjfnjhfvxwznvcfknj
rbaahzrrvkcnktnhztzhzcxznfknyqjfnqjgnkxxbhhzg?nQky,nkcnfqznkfqzhnqjcg,
xkbwgnVnpjuznhztzhzcxznyvfqkbfnjnczynawbciznvcfknfqznqvgzkbrnkdrxbhz?
Yzww,njnrkhfnktnjcryzh,njtfzhnjnfvpz,nqjgnxkpznfknpz,njcgnvfnyjrnrkntjh
xkctvhpzgnjrnfqjfnVnyjrnpzf,nvcxkcfzrfjdw ,nd nfqznebvxuzczgnovrvkcnkt
yqjfnyjrnhjhznvcnp nwvffwznxkpajcvkcmnVfnyjrnvcgzzgnjrnvtnqznqjgntkbcg
zozcncky—jrnqznqjgnrknktfzcntkbcgnjfnwzrrkcr—rfvwwnrkpznkfqzhngzwvxjfz
yj nfknzjrznpznkttmnYjrc’fnfqzhznwviqfnvcnfqzntjxfnyqvxq,njrnyznrqjhzg
kbhnrkwvfbgz,ndhkuznkbfnyvfqnjnrazxvkbrniwvffzhnvfnqjgnczozhn zfnebvfz
ykhc?—fqzntjxfnfqjfn(kaakhfbcvf njvgvci,nahzxvkbrnkaakhfbcvf nyqvxqnqjg
ckynxkpz)nvfnykbwgndznahzakrfzhkbr,nyvfqnjnxqvwgnrknzcgkyzg,nfkntkhzik
fqznqzwankcznpviqfnyhzrfnthkpnjdrkwbfznvcfzwwvizcxz?nYqjfnqjgnqvr
vcfzwwvizcxzndzzcnivozcnqvpntkhndbfnfknrjoznqvp?nPviqfc’fnkcz,nfknhzjxq
qvrnpvcg,nhvrunfqznrfhzfxqnktnjcnjcibwjhnjhpnkozhnqvrnxqjhjxfzh?nVfnyjr
jrnvt,nyqzcnyznyzhzntjxznfkntjxznvcnfqzngvcvcinhkkp,nqznqjgnwvfzhjww 
rqkycnpznfqznyj mnFqznhkjrfnpbffkcnyjrnkcnfqznfjdwz,njcgnVnqjg
gvrazcrzgnyvfqnjffzcgjcxzmnPvwzr,ndztkhznqznrjfngkyc,nrfkkgnjnpkpzcf
yvfqnqvrnqjcgrnvcnqvrnakxuzfrnjcgnwkkuzgnjfnfqznlkvcf,nkcnyqvxqnqz
rzzpzgnkcnfqznakvcfnktnajrrvcinrkpznqbpkhkbrnlbgipzcfmnDbfnyqjfnqz
ahzrzcfw nahkgbxzgnyjr:n“Vnrj ,np ngzjh,nvrnrqznhzjww nozh njytbww 
vww?”

“WvffwznTwkhj?nCkfnrkndjgndbfnfqjfnrqz’wwnahzrzcfw ndzndzffzhmnWkcgkc
yvwwnrzfnqzhnbamnDw nqjgnxzjrzgnfknjihzznyvfqnqzhmnXkpznqzhznjcgnfjuz
 kbhnpbffkcm”

Qznjwzhfw nkdz zgnpz,nxjhhvzgnfqznawjfznxjhztbww nfknqvrnrzjf,njcg,
yqzcnqznyjrnzrfjdwvrqzg,nyzcfnkcmn“GvgnDw ngvrjihzznyvfqnqzhnrk
fzhhvdw nrbggzcw ?”

“Ckfnrknrbggzcw njrn kbnpviqfnfqvcumnKcznqjgnrzzcnvfnxkpvcinkcm”

“Fqzcnyq ngvgc’fn kbnizfnqzhnkttndztkhz?”

“Dztkhznyqjf?”

“Dztkhznrqzndzxjpznfkknvwwnfknfhjozwm”

Vntkbcgnp rzwtnahkpafmn“Rqz’rn_ckf_nfkknvwwnfknfhjozw:nrqznkcw npviqf
qjozndzxkpznrknvtnrqznqjgnrfj zgmnFqvrnyjrnlbrfnfqznpkpzcfnfknrzvszm
Fqznlkbhcz nyvwwngvrrvajfznfqznvctwbzcxz”—kq,nVnyjrnihjcg!—“jcgnxjhh 
vfnkttm”

“Vnrzz,nVnrzz”—Pvwzr,ntkhnfqjfnpjffzh,nyjrnihjcg,nfkkmnQznrzffwzgnfk
qvrnhzajrfnyvfqnfqznxqjhpvcinwvffwzn“fjdwznpjcczh”nfqjf,nthkpnfqzngj 
ktnqvrnjhhvojw,nqjgnhzwvzozgnpznktnjwwnihkrrczrrnktnjgpkcvfvkcm
Yqjfzozhnqznqjgndzzcnghvozcnthkpnrxqkkwntkh,nvfnyjrnckfntkhnbiw 
tzzgvcimnQznyjrnvhhzahkjxqjdwz,njrnjwyj r,nfkgj ;ndbfnqznyjr
bcpvrfjujdw npkhznxkcrxvkbrmnQznyjrngvrxzhcvdw nfh vcinfknfjuzntkh
ihjcfzgnpkhznfqvcirnfqjcnqzntkbcg,nyvfqkbfnjrrvrfjcxz,nebvfznzjr ;njcg
qznghkaazgnvcfknazjxztbwnrvwzcxznyqvwznqzntzwfnqvrnrvfbjfvkcmnKbhnpzjw
yjrnktnfqzndhvztzrf—pvcznjnojvcnahzfzcrz,njcgnVnqjgnfqznfqvcir
vppzgvjfzw nhzpkozgmnYqvwznfqvrnyjrngkcznPvwzrnrfkkgnjijvcnyvfqnqvr
qjcgrnvcnqvrnwvffwznakxuzfrnjcgnqvrndjxunfknpz—rfkkgnjcgnwkkuzgnkbfnkt
fqznyvgznyvcgkynfqhkbiqnyqvxq,nfqjfnkfqzhngj ,nVnqjgnrzzcnyqjfnabwwzg
pznbamnYznxkcfvcbzgnrvwzcfnyqvwznfqznpjvgnyjrnyvfqnbr—jrnrvwzcf,nvf
yqvprvxjww nkxxbhhzgnfknpz,njrnrkpzn kbcinxkbawznyqk,nkcnfqzvhnyzggvci
lkbhcz ,njfnfqznvcc,ntzzwnrq nvcnfqznahzrzcxznktnfqznyjvfzhmnQznfbhczg
hkbcgnkcw nyqzcnfqznyjvfzhnqjgnwztfnbrmn“Yzww—rknyz’hznjwkcz!”


..VVV

“Kq,npkhznkhnwzrrm”nVntjcx np nrpvwznyjrnajwzmn“Ckfnjdrkwbfzw mnYz
rqkbwgc’fnwvuznfqjf!”nVnyzcfnkcm

“Ck—Vnrbaakrznyznrqkbwgc’fmnKtnxkbhrznyznqjoznfqznkfqzhrm”

“Yznqjoznfqznkfqzhr—yznqjoznvcgzzgnfqznkfqzhr,”nVnxkcxbhhzgm

“ zfnzozcnfqkbiqnyznqjoznfqzp,”nqznhzfbhczg,nrfvwwnyvfqnqvrnqjcgrnvc
qvrnakxuzfrnjcgnawjcfzgnfqzhznvcnthkcfnktnpz,n“fqz ngkc’fnpbxqnxkbcf,
gknfqz ?”

Vnpjgznfqzndzrfnktnvf,ndbfnVntzwfnyjcmn“Vfngzazcgrnkcnyqjfn kbnxjww
‘pbxq’!”

“ zr”—yvfqnjwwnjxxkppkgjfvkc—“zozh fqvcingzazcgr!”nKcnfqvr,nqkyzozh,nqz
tjxzgnfknfqznyvcgkynjijvcnjcgnahzrzcfw nhzjxqzgnvfnyvfqnqvrnojibz,
hzrfwzrr,nxkivfjfvcinrfzamnQznhzpjvczgnfqzhznjyqvwz,nyvfqnqvrntkhzqzjg
jijvcrfnfqzniwjrr,nvcnxkcfzpawjfvkcnktnfqznrfbavgnrqhbdrnVnuczynjcgnfqz
gbwwnfqvcirnktnCkozpdzhmnVnqjgnjwyj rnp nq akxhvr nktn“ykhu,”ndzqvcg
yqvxq,ncky,nVnijvczgnfqznrktjmnRfzjg vcinp rzwtnyvfqnvfnfqzhznjrnVnqjg
hzazjfzgw ngkcznjfnfqkrznpkpzcfrnktnfkhpzcfnfqjfnVnqjozngzrxhvdzgnjr
fqznpkpzcfrnktnp nuckyvcinfqznxqvwghzcnfkndznivozcnfknrkpzfqvcinthkp
yqvxqnVnyjrndjhhzg,nVnrbttvxvzcfw nkdz zgnp nqjdvfnktndzvcinahzajhzg
tkhnfqznykhrfmnDbfnjcnz.fhjkhgvcjh nvpahzrrvkcnghkaazgnkcnpznjrnV
z.fhjxfzgnjnpzjcvcinthkpnfqzndk ’rnzpdjhhjrrzgndjxu—ckcznkfqzhnfqjcnfqz
vpahzrrvkcnfqjfnVnyjrnckfndjhhzgnckymnFqvrnvctzhzcxznihzynvcnjntzy
pvcbfzrnfknrqjhanvcfzcrvf njcgnrzzpzgndkbcgnbanyvfqnfqzngvhzxf
azhxzafvkcnfqjfnvfnyjrnakrvfvozw n_qz_nyqknyjrmnFqznthjpzrnjcgnrebjhzr
ktnfqznihzjfnyvcgkynyzhznjnuvcgnktnvpjiz,ntkhnqvp,nktnjnuvcgnkt
tjvwbhzmnVntzwfnfqjfnVnrjynqvp,njfnjc nhjfz,nrqbfnvcnkhnrqbfnkbfmnQz
yjrnjgpvhjdwz,ndbfnckfnxkptkhfjdwz:nVnfkkunvfnvcnyvfqnjnfqhkdnktnqkazm
Yjrc’fnqznwkkuvci,nfqhkbiqnfqznqjbcfzgnajcz,ntkhnrkpzfqvcinqznxkbwgc’f
rzz?—jcgnyjrc’fnvfnfqzntvhrfnfvpznvcnfqznyqkwzndbrvczrrnfqjfnqznqjg
uckycnrbxqnjnwjarz?nFqzntvhrf,nfqznozh ntvhrf:nVntkbcgnvfnjnrawzcgvg
akhfzcfmnVfnpjgznqvpnjc.vkbr,nfqkbiqnqznyjfxqzgnqvprzwt;nqznqjgndzzc
jc.vkbrnjwwngj njcg,nzozcnyqvwznvcnqvrnbrbjwnryzzfnwvffwznpjcczhnqznrjf
jfnfjdwz,nqjgnczzgzgnjwwnqvrnrpjwwnrfhjciznizcvbrnfknivoznvfnjniwkrrm
Yqzcnqznjfnwjrfnfbhczgnhkbcgnfknpzzfnpz,nvfnyjrnjwpkrfnjrnvtnfqvr
izcvbrnqjgnrbxxbpdzgmn“Yzww,nVnfqvcunV’pniwjgnDw njihzzrnyvfqn_pz!_”

“ kbnykbwgnxzhfjvcw nrzzpnfknqjoznrzzc,nfqzrznfyzcf -tkbhnqkbhr,njnikkg
gzjwnpkhznktnvfnfqjcntkhnrkpznfvpzndztkhzmnVnqkaz,”nVnyzcfnkcndhjozw ,
“fqjfn kb’ozndzzcnzclk vcin kbhrzwtm”

“Kq,n zr,nV’ozndzzcnzozhnrkntjh;njwwnhkbcgnjdkbf—pvwzrnjcgnpvwzrnjyj m
V’oznczozhndzzcnrknthzzm”

Qznqjgnhzjww njnpjcczhnktnqvrnkyc,njcgnVnxkbwgnkcw nfh nfknuzzanbanyvfq
qvpmn“Yzww,ngkn kbnwvuznvf?”

Qznrfkkgnfqzhznrpvwvci;nfqzcnjfnwjrfnqznabfnvcfknfyknykhgr—“Gk
_ kb?_”—pkhzngvrxhvpvcjfvkcnfqjcnVnqjgnzozhnqzjhgnfyknykhgrnxkcfjvcm
DztkhznVnqjgnfvpznfkngzjwnyvfqnfqjf,nqkyzozh,nqznxkcfvcbzgnjrnvtnyvfq
fqznrzcrznfqjfnfqvrnyjrnjcnvpazhfvczcxznfkndznrktfzczgmn“Ckfqvcinxkbwg
dznpkhznxqjhpvcinfqjcnfqznyj n kbnfjuznvf,ntkhnktnxkbhrznvtnyz’hznjwkcz
fkizfqzhnckynvf’rn kbnfqjfnjhznjwkcznpkrfmnDbfnVnqkaz,”nqznfqhzynvc,
“ kbngkc’fnajhfvxbwjhw npvcg!”

“Qjovcinfkngknyvfqn kb?”nVnjruzgmn“P ngzjhnxqvwg,nqkynxjcnVnqzwa
pvcgvci?nFqkbiqnV’oznhzckbcxzgnjwwnxwjvpnfkn kbhnxkpajc — kb’hznrk
dz kcgnpz—Vnjfnwzjrfnihzjfw nzclk nvfmnYqjfnzwrznrqkbwgnVnrfj nkcntkh?”

Qznwkkuzgnjfnpznpkhzngvhzxfw ,njcgnfqznz.ahzrrvkcnktnqvrntjxz,nihjozh
cky,nrfhbxunpznjrnfqznpkrfndzjbfvtbwnVnqjgnzozhntkbcgnvcnvfmn“ kbnrfj 
kcnlbrfntkhn_fqjf?_”

“Xzhfjvcw mnVnrfj nkcnjrn kbhnthvzcgnjcgnthkpnfqznfhzpzcgkbrnvcfzhzrfnV
fjuznvcn kbnfvwwnrkpzfqvcinxjcndzngkczntkhn kbnfqjfnpj ndznpkhznykhfq
 kbhnyqvwzmnFqjfnczzgc’fnrbhahvrzn kbm”nP nokvxznfhzpdwzgnrknfqjfnV
tzwfnvfnvpakrrvdwznfknrbaahzrrnfqznrqjuzmn“Gkc’fn kbnhzpzpdzhnqkynV
fkwgn kb,nyqzcnVnxjpznjcgnrjfnkcn kbhndzgnfqzncviqfnktnfqznrfkhp,nfqjf
fqzhznyjrnckfqvcinvcnfqznykhwgnVnykbwgc’fngkntkhn kb?”

“ zr,n zr!”nQz,nkcnqvrnrvgz,npkhznjcgnpkhznovrvdw nczhokbr,nqjgnjnfkcz
fknpjrfzh;ndbfnqznyjrnrknpbxqnpkhznrbxxzrrtbwnfqjcnVnfqjf,nwjbiqvcinkbf
fqhkbiqnqvrnihjovf ,nqznxkbwgnahzfzcgnyznyzhznawzjrjcfw nlzrfvcimn“Kcw 
fqjf,nVnfqvcu,nyjrnfknizfnpznfkngknrkpzfqvcintkhn_ kb!_”

“Vfnyjrnajhfw nfknizfn kbnfkngknrkpzfqvci,”nVnxkcxzgzgmn“Dbf,n kbnucky,
 kbngvgc’fngknvfm”

“Kq,n zr,”nqznrjvgnyvfqnfqzndhviqfzrfnrbazhtvxvjwnzjizhczrr,n“ kb
yjcfzgnpznfknfzwwn kbnrkpzfqvcim”

“Fqjf’rnvfmnKbf,nrfhjviqfnkbfmnYqjfn kbnqjoznkcn kbhnpvcg,n kbnuckym”

“Jq,nfqzc,nvrn_fqjf_nyqjfn kb’oznrfj zgnkozhntkh?”

Qznrakuznyvfqnjnijvzf nfqhkbiqnyqvxqnVnxkbwgnrfvwwnxjfxqnfqzntvczrf
wvffwznebvozhnktnhzrzcftbwnajrrvkc;ndbfnVnxjc’fndzivcnfknz.ahzrrnfqz
zttzxfnbakcnpznktnjcnvpawvxjfvkcnktnrbhhzcgzhnzozcnrkntjvcfmnVfnyjrnjr
vtnyqjfnVnqjgn zjhczgntkhnqjgnxkpznjfnwjrfnkcw nfknjrfkcvrqnpzmn“Yzww,
 zr—Vnpj njrnyzwwnpjuznjnxwzjcndhzjrfnktnvf,nvfnyjrnahzxvrzw ntkh
fqjfm”

QznyjvfzgnrknwkcinfqjfnVnrbaakrzgnvfntkhnfqznabhakrznktnhzabgvjfvcinfqz
jrrbpafvkcnkcnyqvxqnp njxfvkcnqjgndzzcntkbcgzg;ndbfnyqjfnqzntvcjww 
rjvgnyjr:n“Gkn kbnpzjcncky—qzhz?”

“Fqzhznxkbwgc’fndznjndzffzhnawjxznkhnfvpzm”nQznwkkuzgnhkbcgnqvp
bczjrvw ,njcgnVnqjgnfqznhjhz—kq,nfqznebzzh!—vpahzrrvkcnktnfqznozh 
tvhrfnr pafkpnVnqjgnrzzcnvcnqvpnktnfqznjaahkjxqnktnvppzgvjfzntzjhmnVf
yjrnjrnvtnqznyzhznrbggzcw njthjvgnktnpz—yqvxqnrfhbxunpznvcgzzgnjr
azhqjarnfqzndzrfnfqvcinfknpjuznqvpmn zfnvcnfqznozh najcinktnfqznzttkhf
Vntzwfnvfnojvcnfknfh nrfzhcczrr,njcgnVnqzjhgnp rzwtnfqzncz.fnvcrfjcfnrk
izcfwznjrnfkndznjwpkrfnihkfzrebzmn“ kbnyjcfnrknfkniknkbfnjijvc?”

“Jytbww !”nQznrpvwzgnjfnpznqzhkvxjww ,njcgnfqznfkbxqvcinwvffwzndhjozh 
ktnvfnyjrnzcqjcxzgnd nqvrnjxfbjww ntwbrqvcinyvfqnajvcmnQznqjgnavxuzgnba
qvrnqjf,nyqvxqnqznqjgndhkbiqfnvc,njcgnrfkkgnfyvhwvcinvfnvcnjnyj nfqjf
ijoznpz,nzozcnjrnVnyjrnlbrfnczjhw nhzjxqvcinakhf,njnazhozhrznqkhhkhnkt
yqjfnVnyjrngkvcimnFkngknvfnvcn_jc _nyj nyjrnjcnjxfnktnovkwzcxz,ntkh
yqjfngvgnvfnxkcrvrfnktndbfnfqznkdfhbrvkcnktnfqznvgzjnktnihkrrczrrnjcg
ibvwfnkcnjnrpjwwnqzwawzrrnxhzjfbhznyqknqjgndzzcntkhnpznjnhzozwjfvkcnkt
fqznakrrvdvwvfvzrnktndzjbfvtbwnvcfzhxkbhrz?nYjrc’fnvfndjrznfknxhzjfz
tkhnjndzvcinrknz.ebvrvfznjnpzhznjwvzcnjyuyjhgczrr?nVnrbaakrznVnckynhzjg
vcfknkbhnrvfbjfvkcnjnxwzjhczrrnvfnxkbwgc’fnqjoznqjgnjfnfqznfvpz,ntkhnV
rzzpnfknrzznkbhnakkhnz zrnjwhzjg nwviqfzgnyvfqnrkpznrajhunktnj
ahzovrvkcnktnfqznjcibvrqnfqjfnyjrnfknxkpzmnRknyznxvhxwzgnjdkbf,nyvfq
fzhhkhrnjcgnrxhbawzr,nwvuzntviqfzhrnckfngjhvcinfknxwkrzmnDbfnvfnyjrntkh
zjxqnkfqzhnyzntzjhzg!nFqjfnuzafnbrnjnwvffwznwkcizhnrbrazcgzgnjcg
bcdhbvrzgmn“V’wwnfzwwn kbnzozh fqvci,”nPvwzrnrjvg—“VnpzjcnV’wwnfzwwn kb
jc fqvcin kbnwvuzmn kb’wwnrfj nkcnyvfqnpz,njcgnyznrqjwwndkfqndznjww
hviqf,njcgnVn_yvww_nfzwwn kb—Vn_yvww_mnDbfnckfnckym”

“Yq nckfncky?”

P nvcrvrfzcxznfbhczgnqvpnthkpnpznjcgnuzafnqvpnkcxznpkhznjfnqvrnyvcgky
vcnjnrvwzcxzngbhvcinyqvxq,ndzfyzzcnbr,n kbnpviqfnqjoznqzjhgnjnavcnghkam
Fqzcnqznyjrndztkhznpznjijvcnyvfqnfqznjvhnktnjnazhrkcntkhnyqkp,nkbfrvgz,
rkpzkcznyqknqjgnthjcuw nfkndznhzxukczgnyvfqnyjrnyjvfvcimn“Vnqjoznfknrzz
Wbuzm”

Vnqjgnckfn zfnhzgbxzgnqvpnfknebvfznrknobwijhnjnwvz,njcgnVntzwf
ahkakhfvkcjfzw njrqjpzgmnDbf,nqkhhvdwznjrnvfnyjr,nqvrnwvzrnpjgznbanp 
fhbfqmnVnjxqvzozgnfqkbiqftbww njntzynwkkarnktnp nucvffvcimn“Yzww,nfqzc,
iknfknWbuz,njcgnV’wwnyjvfntkhnyqjfn kbnahkpvrzmnKcw ,nvcnhzfbhcntkh
fqjf,nrjfvrt ,ndztkhzn kbnwzjoznpz,nkcznozh npbxqnrpjwwzhnhzebzrfm”

Qznwkkuzgnjrnvtnqzntzwfnqznqjgnrbxxzzgzgnzckbiqnfkndznjdwznrfvwwnj
wvffwznfkndjhijvcmn“Ozh npbxqnrpjwwzh—?”

“ zr,njnpzhznthjxfvkcnktnfqznyqkwzmnFzwwnpz”—kq,np nykhunahzkxxbavzg
pz,njcgnVnyjrnkttqjcg!—“vt,n zrfzhgj njtfzhckkc,nthkpnfqznfjdwznvcnfqz
qjww,n kbnfkku,n kbnucky,np nwzffzhm”


..VO

P nrzcrznktnqkynqznhzxzvozgnfqvrnrbttzhzgntkhnjnpvcbfznthkpnrkpzfqvci
fqjfnVnxjcngzrxhvdznkcw njrnjntvzhxznrawvfnktnp njffzcfvkc—jnrfhkuz
fqjfnjfntvhrf,njrnVnrahjcinrfhjviqfnba,nhzgbxzgnpznfknfqznpzhzndwvcg
pkozpzcfnktnizffvcinqkwgnktnqvp,nghjyvcinqvpnxwkrz,njcg,nyqvwznVnlbrf
tzwwntkhnrbaakhfnjijvcrfnfqznczjhzrfnavzxznktntbhcvfbhz,nvcrfvcxfvozw 
uzzavcinqvpnyvfqnqvrndjxunfknfqznyvcgkymnFqznjaazjhjcxznyjrntbwwnbakc
brnfqjfnVnqjgnjwhzjg nqjgnfkngzjwnyvfqnqzhz:nAzfzhnEbvcfnqjgnxkpznvcfk
ovzynwvuznjnrzcfvczwndztkhznjnahvrkcmnFqzncz.fnfqvcinVnrjynyjrnfqjf,
thkpnkbfrvgz,nqznqjgnhzjxqzgnfqznyvcgky,njcgnfqzcnVnuczynfqjf,nxwkrznfk
fqzniwjrrnjcgniwjhvcinvcnfqhkbiqnvf,nqznkttzhzgnkcxznpkhznfknfqznhkkp
qvrnyqvfzntjxznktngjpcjfvkcmnVfnhzahzrzcfrndbfnihkrrw nyqjfnfkkunawjxz
yvfqvcnpznjfnfqznrviqfnfknrj nfqjfnkcnfqznrzxkcgnp ngzxvrvkcnyjrnpjgz;
 zfnVndzwvzoznfqjfncknykpjcnrknkozhyqzwpzgnzozhnvcnrknrqkhfnjnfvpz
hzxkozhzgnqzhnihjranktnfqzn_jxf_mnVfnxjpznfknpznvcnfqznozh nqkhhkhnkt
fqznvppzgvjfznahzrzcxznfqjfnfqznjxfnykbwgndz,nrzzvcinjcgntjxvcinyqjfnV
rjynjcgntjxzg,nfknuzzanfqzndk nqvprzwtnbcjyjhzmnFqznvcravhjfvkc—Vnxjc
xjwwnvfnd ncknkfqzhncjpz—yjrnfqjfnVntzwfnqkynokwbcfjhvw ,nqky
fhjcrxzcgzcfw ,nVn_pviqf_mnVfnyjrnwvuzntviqfvcinyvfqnjngzpkcntkhnj
qbpjcnrkbw,njcgnyqzcnVnqjgntjvhw nrknjaahjvrzgnvfnVnrjynqkynfqznqbpjc
rkbw—qzwgnkbf,nvcnfqznfhzpkhnktnp nqjcgr,njfnjhp’rnwzcifq—qjgnjnazhtzxf
gzynktnryzjfnkcnjnwkozw nxqvwgvrqntkhzqzjgmnFqzntjxznfqjfnyjrnxwkrznfk
pvcznyjrnjrnyqvfznjrnfqzntjxznjijvcrfnfqzniwjrr,njcgnkbfnktnvf
ahzrzcfw nxjpznjnrkbcg,nckfnwkynckhnyzju,ndbfnjrnvtnthkpnpbxqntbhfqzh
jyj ,nfqjfnVnghjcunwvuznjnyjtfnktnthjihjcxzm

“ zr—Vnfkkunvfm”

Jfnfqvr,nyvfqnjnpkjcnktnlk ,nVnzctkwgzg,nVnghzynqvpnxwkrz;njcgnyqvwznV
qzwgnqvpnfknp ndhzjrf,nyqzhznVnxkbwgntzzwnvcnfqznrbggzcntzozhnktnqvr
wvffwzndkg nfqznfhzpzcgkbrnabwrznktnqvrnwvffwznqzjhf,nVnuzafnp nz zrnkc
fqznfqvcinjfnfqznyvcgkynjcgnrjynvfnpkoznjcgnrqvtfnvfrnakrfbhzmnVnqjoz
wvuzczgnvfnfknjnrzcfvczw,ndbfnvfrnrwkynyqzzw,ntkhnjnpkpzcf,nyjrnhjfqzh
fqznahkywnktnjndjttwzgndzjrfmnP nahzrzcfnebvxuzczgnxkbhjiz,nqkyzozh,
yjrnrbxqnfqjf,nckfnfkknpbxqnfknwzfnvfnfqhkbiq,nVnqjgnfknrqjgz,njrnvf
yzhz,np ntwjpzmnPzjcyqvwznfqzniwjhznktnfqzntjxznyjrnjijvcnjfnfqz
yvcgky,nfqznrxkbcghzwntv.zgnjrnvtnfknyjfxqnjcgnyjvfmnVfnyjrnfqznozh 
xkctvgzcxznfqjfnVnpviqfnckyngzt nqvp,njrnyzwwnjrnfqznakrvfvoz
xzhfvfbgz,nd nfqvrnfvpz,nktnfqznxqvwg’rnbcxkcrxvkbrczrr,nfqjfnpjgznpz
iknkcmn“Yqjfngvgn kbnfjuznvfntkh?”

“Fknrzznyqjfn kbnrjvgnjdkbfnpzm”

“ kbnkazczgnfqznwzffzh?”

“Vnkazczgnvfm”

P nz zrnyzhzncky,njrnVnqzwgnqvpnkttnjnwvffwznjijvc,nkcnPvwzr’rnkyc
tjxz,nvcnyqvxqnfqznxkwwjarznktnpkxuzh nrqkyzgnpznqkynxkpawzfznyjrnfqz
hjojiznktnbczjrvczrrmnYqjfnyjrnahkgvivkbrnyjrnfqjfnjfnwjrf,nd np 
rbxxzrr,nqvrnrzcrznyjrnrzjwzgnjcgnqvrnxkppbcvxjfvkcnrfkaazg:nqznuczy
fqjfnqznyjrnvcnahzrzcxz,ndbfnuczynckfnktnyqjf,njcgnuczynrfvwwnwzrrnfqjf
VnjwrknyjrnjcgnfqjfnVngvgnuckymnJcgnyqjfngvgnfqvrnrfhjvcnktnfhkbdwz
pjffzhnyqzcnp nz zrnyzcfndjxunfknfqznyvcgkynkcw nfknrzznfqjfnfqznjvh
yjrnxwzjhnjijvcnjcg—d np nazhrkcjwnfhvbpaq—fqznvctwbzcxznebzcxqzg?
FqzhznyjrnckfqvcinfqzhzmnVntzwfnfqjfnfqznxjbrznyjrnpvcznjcgnfqjfnV
rqkbwgnrbhzw nizfn_jww_mn“Jcgn kbntkbcgnckfqvci!”—Vnwzfnp nzwjfvkcnkbfm

Qznijoznfqznpkrfnpkbhctbw,nfqkbiqftbwnwvffwznqzjgrqjuzmn“Ckfqvcim”

“Ckfqvci,nckfqvci!”nVnjwpkrfnrqkbfzgnvcnp nlk m

“Ckfqvci,nckfqvci,”nqznrjgw nhzazjfzgm

Vnuvrrzgnqvrntkhzqzjg;nvfnyjrnghzcxqzgmn“Rknyqjfnqjozn kbngkcznyvfq
vf?”

“V’ozndbhczgnvfm”

“Dbhczgnvf?”nVfnyjrnckynkhnczozhmn“Vrnfqjfnyqjfn kbngvgnjfnrxqkkw?”

Kq,nyqjfnfqvrndhkbiqfnba!n“Jfnrxqkkw?”

“Gvgn kbnfjuznwzffzhr?—khnkfqzhnfqvcir?”

“Kfqzhnfqvcir?”nQznjaazjhzgnckynfkndznfqvcuvcinktnrkpzfqvcintjhnkttnjcg
fqjfnhzjxqzgnqvpnkcw nfqhkbiqnfqznahzrrbhznktnqvrnjc.vzf mn zfnvfngvg
hzjxqnqvpmn“GvgnVn_rfzjw?_”

Vntzwfnp rzwtnhzggzcnfknfqznhkkfrnktnp nqjvhnjrnyzwwnjrnykcgzhnvtnvf
yzhznpkhznrfhjciznfknabfnfknjnizcfwzpjcnrbxqnjnebzrfvkcnkhnfknrzznqvp
fjuznvfnyvfqnjwwkyjcxzrnfqjfnijoznfqznozh ngvrfjcxznktnqvrntjwwnvcnfqz
ykhwgmn“Yjrnvfntkhnfqjfn kbnpviqfc’fnikndjxu?”

Fqznkcw nfqvcinqzntzwfnyjrnhjfqzhnjnghzjh nwvffwznrbhahvrzmn“Gvgn kb
uckynVnpviqfc’fnikndjxu?”

“Vnuckynzozh fqvcim”

Qznijoznpznjfnfqvrnfqznwkcizrfnjcgnrfhjcizrfnwkkumn“Zozh fqvci?”

“Zozh fqvcimnFqzhztkhzn_gvg_n kb—?”nDbfnVnxkbwgc’fnrj nvfnjijvcm

Pvwzrnxkbwg,nozh nrvpaw mn“CkmnVngvgc’fnrfzjwm”

P ntjxznpbrfnqjoznrqkycnqvpnVndzwvzozgnqvpnbffzhw ;n zfnp nqjcgr—dbfnvf
yjrntkhnabhznfzcgzhczrr—rqkkunqvpnjrnvtnfknjrunqvpnyq ,nvtnvfnyjrnjww
tkhnckfqvci,nqznqjgnxkcgzpczgnpznfknpkcfqrnktnfkhpzcfmn“Yqjfnfqzcngvg
 kbngk?”

Qznwkkuzgnvcnojibznajvcnjwwnhkbcgnfqznfkanktnfqznhkkpnjcgnghzynqvr
dhzjfq,nfyknkhnfqhzznfvpzrnkozh,njrnvtnyvfqngvttvxbwf mnQznpviqfnqjoz
dzzcnrfjcgvcinjfnfqzndkffkpnktnfqznrzjnjcgnhjvrvcinqvrnz zrnfknrkpz
tjvcfnihzzcnfyvwviqfmn“Yzww—Vnrjvgnfqvcirm”

“Kcw nfqjf?”

“Fqz nfqkbiqfnvfnyjrnzckbiq!”

“Fknfbhcn kbnkbfntkh?”

Czozh,nfhbw ,nqjgnjnazhrkcn“fbhczgnkbf”nrqkycnrknwvffwznfknz.awjvcnvf
jrnfqvrnwvffwznazhrkc!nQznjaazjhzgnfknyzviqnp nebzrfvkc,ndbfnvcnj
pjcczhnebvfzngzfjxqzgnjcgnjwpkrfnqzwawzrrmn“Yzww,nVnrbaakrznV
kbiqfc’fm”

“Dbfnfknyqkpngvgn kbnrj nfqzp?”

Qznzovgzcfw nfhvzgnfknhzpzpdzh,ndbfnvfnghkaazg—qznqjgnwkrfnvfmn“Vngkc’f
ucky!”

Qznjwpkrfnrpvwzgnjfnpznvcnfqzngzrkwjfvkcnktnqvrnrbhhzcgzh,nyqvxqnyjr
vcgzzgnahjxfvxjww ,nd nfqvrnfvpz,nrknxkpawzfznfqjfnVnkbiqfnfknqjoznwztf
vfnfqzhzmnDbfnVnyjrnvctjfbjfzg—Vnyjrndwvcgnyvfqnovxfkh ,nfqkbiqnzozc
fqzcnfqznozh nzttzxfnfqjfnyjrnfknqjozndhkbiqfnqvpnrknpbxqnczjhzhnyjr
jwhzjg nfqjfnktnjggzgnrzajhjfvkcmn“Yjrnvfnfknzozh kcz?”nVnjruzgm

“Ck;nvfnyjrnkcw nfk—”nDbfnqznijoznjnrvxunwvffwznqzjgrqjuzmn“Vngkc’f
hzpzpdzhnfqzvhncjpzrm”

“Yzhznfqz nfqzcnrknpjc ?”

“Ck—kcw njntzymnFqkrznVnwvuzgm”

Fqkrznqznwvuzg?nVnrzzpzgnfkntwkjfnckfnvcfknxwzjhczrr,ndbfnvcfknjngjhuzh
kdrxbhz,njcgnyvfqvcnjnpvcbfznfqzhznqjgnxkpznfknpznkbfnktnp nozh navf 
fqznjaajwwvcinjwjhpnktnqvrndzvcinazhqjarnvcckxzcfmnVfnyjrntkhnfqz
vcrfjcfnxkctkbcgvcinjcgndkffkpwzrr,ntkhnvtnqzn_yzhz_nvcckxzcf,nyqjf
fqzcnkcnzjhfqnyjrn_V?_nAjhjw szg,nyqvwznvfnwjrfzg,nd nfqznpzhzndhbrqnkt
fqznebzrfvkc,nVnwzfnqvpniknjnwvffwz,nrknfqjf,nyvfqnjngzza-ghjycnrviq,
qznfbhczgnjyj nthkpnpznjijvc;nyqvxq,njrnqzntjxzgnfkyjhgnfqznxwzjh
yvcgky,nVnrbttzhzg,ntzzwvcinfqjfnVnqjgnckfqvcinckynfqzhznfknuzzanqvp
thkpmn“Jcgngvgnfqz nhzazjfnyqjfn kbnrjvg?”nVnyzcfnkcnjtfzhnjnpkpzcfm

Qznyjrnrkkcnjfnrkpzngvrfjcxznthkpnpz,nrfvwwndhzjfqvcinqjhgnjcgnjijvc
yvfqnfqznjvh,nfqkbiqnckynyvfqkbfnjcizhntkhnvf,nktndzvcinxkctvczg
jijvcrfnqvrnyvwwmnKcxznpkhz,njrnqznqjgngkczndztkhz,nqznwkkuzgnbanjfnfqz
gvpngj njrnvt,nktnyqjfnqjgnqvfqzhfknrbrfjvczgnqvp,nckfqvcinyjrnwztfndbf
jcnbcrazjujdwznjc.vzf mn“Kq,n zr,”nqznczozhfqzwzrrnhzawvzg—“fqz npbrf
qjoznhzazjfzgnfqzpmnFknfqkrzn_fqz _nwvuzg,”nqznjggzgm

Fqzhznyjr,nrkpzqky,nwzrrnktnvfnfqjcnVnqjgnz.azxfzg;ndbfnVnfbhczgnvf
kozhmn“Jcgnfqzrznfqvcirnxjpznhkbcg—?”

“Fknfqznpjrfzhr?nKq,n zr!”nqznjcryzhzgnozh nrvpaw mn“DbfnVngvgc’fnucky
fqz ’gnfzwwm”

“Fqznpjrfzhr?nFqz ngvgc’f—fqz ’oznczozhnfkwgmnFqjf’rnyq nVnjrun kbm”

Qznfbhczgnfknpznjijvcnqvrnwvffwzndzjbfvtbwntzozhzgntjxzmn“ zr,nvfnyjr
fkkndjgm”

“Fkkndjg?”

“YqjfnVnrbaakrznVnrkpzfvpzrnrjvgmnFknyhvfznqkpzm”

Vnxjc’fncjpznfqznz.ebvrvfznajfqkrnktnfqznxkcfhjgvxfvkcnivozcnfknrbxqnj
razzxqnd nrbxqnjnrazjuzh;nVnkcw nuckynfqjfnfqzncz.fnvcrfjcfnVnqzjhg
p rzwtnfqhkynkttnyvfqnqkpzw ntkhxz:n“Rfbttnjcgnckcrzcrz!”nDbfnfqzncz.f
jtfzhnfqjfnVnpbrfnqjoznrkbcgzgnrfzhcnzckbiqmn“Yqjfn_yzhz_nfqzrz
fqvcir?”

P nrfzhcczrrnyjrnjwwntkhnqvrnlbgiz,nqvrnz.zxbfvkczh;n zfnvfnpjgznqvp
jozhfnqvprzwtnjijvc,njcgnfqjfnpkozpzcfnpjgzn_pz_,nyvfqnjnrvciwzndkbcg
jcgnjcnvhhzahzrrvdwznxh ,nrahvcinrfhjviqfnbakcnqvpmnTkhnfqzhznjijvc,
jijvcrfnfqzniwjrr,njrnvtnfkndwviqfnqvrnxkctzrrvkcnjcgnrfj nqvrnjcryzh,
yjrnfqznqvgzkbrnjbfqkhnktnkbhnykz—fqznyqvfzntjxznktngjpcjfvkcmnVntzwfnj
rvxunryvpnjfnfqznghkanktnp novxfkh njcgnjwwnfqznhzfbhcnktnp ndjffwz,nrk
fqjfnfqznyvwgczrrnktnp nozhvfjdwznwzjankcw nrzhozgnjrnjnihzjfndzfhj jwm
Vnrjynqvp,nthkpnfqznpvgrfnktnp njxf,npzzfnvfnyvfqnjngvovcjfvkc,njcgnkc
fqznazhxzafvkcnfqjfnzozcnckynqznkcw nibzrrzg,njcgnfqjfnfqznyvcgkynyjr
rfvwwnfknqvrnkycnz zrnthzz,nVnwzfnfqznvpabwrzntwjpznbanfknxkcozhfnfqz
xwvpj.nktnqvrngvrpj nvcfknfqznozh nahkktnktnqvrnwvdzhjfvkcmn“Cknpkhz,
cknpkhz,ncknpkhz!”nVnrqhvzuzg,njrnVnfhvzgnfknahzrrnqvpnjijvcrfnpz,nfk
p novrvfjcfm

“Vrnrqzn_qzhz?_”nPvwzrnajcfzgnjrnqznxjbiqfnyvfqnqvrnrzjwzgnz zrnfqz
gvhzxfvkcnktnp nykhgrmnFqzcnjrnqvrnrfhjcizn“rqz”nrfjiizhzgnpznjcg,nyvfq
jnijra,nVnzxqkzgnvf,n“PvrrnLzrrzw,nPvrrnLzrrzw!”nqznyvfqnjnrbggzcntbh 
ijoznpzndjxum

Vnrzvszg,nrfbaztvzg,nqvrnrbaakrvfvkc—rkpznrzebzwnfknyqjfnyznqjgngkcznfk
Twkhj,ndbfnfqvrnpjgznpznkcw nyjcfnfknrqkynqvpnfqjfnvfnyjrndzffzhnrfvww
fqjcnfqjfmn“Vf’rnckfnPvrrnLzrrzw!nDbfnvf’rnjfnfqznyvcgky—rfhjviqf
dztkhznbrmnVf’rn_fqzhz_—fqznxkyjhgnqkhhkh,nfqzhzntkhnfqznwjrfnfvpz!”

Jfnfqvr,njtfzhnjnrzxkcgnvcnyqvxqnqvrnqzjgnpjgznfqznpkozpzcfnktnj
djttwzgngki’rnkcnjnrxzcfnjcgnfqzcnijoznjnthjcfvxnwvffwznrqjuzntkhnjvh
jcgnwviqf,nqznyjrnjfnpznvcnjnyqvfznhjiz,ndzyvwgzhzg,niwjhvcinojvcw 
kozhnfqznawjxznjcgnpvrrvcinyqkww ,nfqkbiqnvfncky,nfknp nrzcrz,ntvwwzg
fqznhkkpnwvuznfqznfjrfznktnakvrkc,nfqznyvgz,nkozhyqzwpvcinahzrzcxzm
“Vf’rn_qz?_”

Vnyjrnrkngzfzhpvczgnfknqjoznjwwnp nahkktnfqjfnVntwjrqzgnvcfknvxznfk
xqjwwzciznqvpmn“Yqkpngkn kbnpzjcnd n‘qz’?”

“AzfzhnEbvcf— kbngzovw!”nQvrntjxznijoznjijvc,nhkbcgnfqznhkkp,nvfr
xkcobwrzgnrbaawvxjfvkcmn“_Yqzhz?_”

Fqz njhznvcnp nzjhrnrfvww,nqvrnrbahzpznrbhhzcgzhnktnfqzncjpznjcgnqvr
fhvdbfznfknp ngzokfvkcmn“Yqjfngkzrnqznpjffzhncky,np nkyc?—yqjfnyvwwnqz
_zozh_npjffzh?n_V_nqjozn kb,”nVnwjbcxqzgnjfnfqzndzjrf,n“dbfnqznqjrnwkrf
 kbntkhzozh!”nFqzc,ntkhnfqzngzpkcrfhjfvkcnktnp nykhu,n“Fqzhz,n_fqzhz!_”
VnrjvgnfknPvwzrm

Dbfnqznqjgnjwhzjg nlzhuzgnrfhjviqfnhkbcg,nrfjhzg,niwjhzgnjijvc,njcg
rzzcndbfnfqznebvzfngj mnYvfqnfqznrfhkuznktnfqznwkrrnVnyjrnrknahkbgnkt
qznbffzhzgnfqznxh nktnjnxhzjfbhznqbhwzgnkozhnjcnjd rr,njcgnfqznihjra
yvfqnyqvxqnVnhzxkozhzgnqvpnpviqfnqjozndzzcnfqjfnktnxjfxqvcinqvpnvcnqvr
tjwwmnVnxjbiqfnqvp,n zr,nVnqzwgnqvp—vfnpj ndznvpjivczgnyvfqnyqjfnj
ajrrvkc;ndbfnjfnfqznzcgnktnjnpvcbfznVndzijcnfkntzzwnyqjfnvfnfhbw nyjr
fqjfnVnqzwgmnYznyzhznjwkcznyvfqnfqznebvzfngj ,njcgnqvrnwvffwznqzjhf,
gvrakrrzrrzg,nqjgnrfkaazgm





ZcgnktnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinZDkkunktnFqznFbhcnktnfqznRxhzy,nd nQzch nLjpzr


***nZCGnKTnFQVRnAHKLZXFnIBFZCDZHInZDKKUnFQZnFBHCnKTnFQZnRXHZYn***

*****nFqvrntvwznrqkbwgndzncjpzgn209-0mf.fnkhn209-0msvan*****
Fqvrnjcgnjwwnjrrkxvjfzgntvwzrnktnojhvkbrntkhpjfrnyvwwndzntkbcgnvc:
nnnnnnnnqffa://yyymibfzcdzhimkhi/2/0/209/

Ahkgbxzgnd nLbgvfqnDkrr,njcgnGjovgnYvgizh

Bagjfzgnzgvfvkcrnyvwwnhzawjxznfqznahzovkbrnkcz--fqznkwgnzgvfvkcrnyvww
dznhzcjpzgm

Xhzjfvcinfqznykhurnthkpnahvcfnzgvfvkcrnckfnahkfzxfzgnd nBmRmnxka hviqf
wjynpzjcrnfqjfncknkcznkycrnjnBcvfzgnRfjfzrnxka hviqfnvcnfqzrznykhur,
rknfqznTkbcgjfvkcn(jcgn kb!)nxjcnxka njcgngvrfhvdbfznvfnvcnfqznBcvfzg
Rfjfzrnyvfqkbfnazhpvrrvkcnjcgnyvfqkbfnaj vcinxka hviqf
hk jwfvzrmnRazxvjwnhbwzr,nrzfntkhfqnvcnfqznIzczhjwnFzhprnktnBrznajhf
ktnfqvrnwvxzcrz,njaaw nfknxka vcinjcgngvrfhvdbfvcinAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnfknahkfzxfnfqznAHKLZXFnIBFZCDZHI-fp
xkcxzafnjcgnfhjgzpjhumnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinvrnjnhzivrfzhzgnfhjgzpjhu,
jcgnpj nckfndznbrzgnvtn kbnxqjhizntkhnfqznzDkkur,nbcwzrrn kbnhzxzvoz
razxvtvxnazhpvrrvkcmnVtn kbngknckfnxqjhiznjc fqvcintkhnxkavzrnktnfqvr
zDkku,nxkpaw vcinyvfqnfqznhbwzrnvrnozh nzjr mn kbnpj nbrznfqvrnzDkku
tkhnczjhw njc nabhakrznrbxqnjrnxhzjfvkcnktngzhvojfvoznykhur,nhzakhfr,
azhtkhpjcxzrnjcgnhzrzjhxqmnFqz npj ndznpkgvtvzgnjcgnahvcfzgnjcgnivozc
jyj -- kbnpj ngknahjxfvxjww nJC FQVCInvcnfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzrnyvfqnzDkkur
ckfnahkfzxfzgnd nBmRmnxka hviqfnwjymnHzgvrfhvdbfvkcnvrnrbdlzxfnfknfqz
fhjgzpjhunwvxzcrz,nzrazxvjww nxkppzhxvjwnhzgvrfhvdbfvkcm

RFJHF:nTBWWnWVXZCRZ

FQZnTBWWnAHKLZXFnIBFZCDZHInWVXZCRZ
AWZJRZnHZJGnFQVRnDZTKHZn KBnGVRFHVDBFZnKHnBRZnFQVRnYKHU

FknahkfzxfnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnpvrrvkcnktnahkpkfvcinfqznthzz
gvrfhvdbfvkcnktnzwzxfhkcvxnykhur,nd nbrvcinkhngvrfhvdbfvcinfqvrnykhu
(khnjc nkfqzhnykhunjrrkxvjfzgnvcnjc nyj nyvfqnfqznaqhjrzn"Ahklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi"),n kbnjihzznfknxkpaw nyvfqnjwwnfqznfzhprnktnfqznTbww
AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrznjojvwjdwznyvfqnfqvrntvwznkhnkcwvcznjf
yyymibfzcdzhimkhi/wvxzcrzm

Rzxfvkcn1mnIzczhjwnFzhprnktnBrznjcgnHzgvrfhvdbfvcinAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhur

1mJmnD nhzjgvcinkhnbrvcinjc najhfnktnfqvrnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
zwzxfhkcvxnykhu,n kbnvcgvxjfznfqjfn kbnqjoznhzjg,nbcgzhrfjcg,njihzznfk
jcgnjxxzafnjwwnfqznfzhprnktnfqvrnwvxzcrznjcgnvcfzwwzxfbjwnahkazhf 
(fhjgzpjhu/xka hviqf)njihzzpzcfmnVtn kbngknckfnjihzznfknjdvgznd njww
fqznfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcf,n kbnpbrfnxzjrznbrvcinjcgnhzfbhcnkh
gzrfhk njwwnxkavzrnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnvcn kbh
akrrzrrvkcmnVtn kbnajvgnjntzzntkhnkdfjvcvcinjnxka nktnkhnjxxzrrnfknj
AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunjcgn kbngknckfnjihzznfkndzndkbcg
d nfqznfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcf,n kbnpj nkdfjvcnjnhztbcgnthkpnfqz
azhrkcnkhnzcfvf nfknyqkpn kbnajvgnfqzntzznjrnrzfntkhfqnvcnajhjihjaq
1mZm8m

1mDmn"AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi"nvrnjnhzivrfzhzgnfhjgzpjhumnVfnpj nkcw ndz
brzgnkcnkhnjrrkxvjfzgnvcnjc nyj nyvfqnjcnzwzxfhkcvxnykhund nazkawznyqk
jihzznfkndzndkbcgnd nfqznfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfmnFqzhznjhznjntzy
fqvcirnfqjfn kbnxjcngknyvfqnpkrfnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhur
zozcnyvfqkbfnxkpaw vcinyvfqnfqzntbwwnfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfmnRzz
ajhjihjaqn1mXndzwkymnFqzhznjhznjnwkfnktnfqvcirn kbnxjcngknyvfqnAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnvtn kbntkwwkynfqznfzhprnktnfqvr
jihzzpzcfnjcgnqzwanahzrzhoznthzzntbfbhznjxxzrrnfknAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
zwzxfhkcvxnykhurmnRzznajhjihjaqn1mZndzwkym

1mXmnFqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcn("fqz
Tkbcgjfvkc"nkhnAIWJT),nkycrnjnxkpavwjfvkcnxka hviqfnvcnfqznxkwwzxfvkc
ktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurmnCzjhw njwwnfqznvcgvovgbjw
ykhurnvcnfqznxkwwzxfvkcnjhznvcnfqznabdwvxngkpjvcnvcnfqznBcvfzg
RfjfzrmnVtnjcnvcgvovgbjwnykhunvrnbcahkfzxfzgnd nxka hviqfnwjynvcnfqz
BcvfzgnRfjfzrnjcgn kbnjhznwkxjfzgnvcnfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzr,nyzngknckf
xwjvpnjnhviqfnfknahzozcfn kbnthkpnxka vci,ngvrfhvdbfvci,nazhtkhpvci,
gvrawj vcinkhnxhzjfvcingzhvojfvoznykhurndjrzgnkcnfqznykhunjrnwkcinjr
jwwnhztzhzcxzrnfknAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinjhznhzpkozgmnKtnxkbhrz,nyznqkaz
fqjfn kbnyvwwnrbaakhfnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnpvrrvkcnktnahkpkfvci
thzznjxxzrrnfknzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnd nthzzw nrqjhvcinAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
ykhurnvcnxkpawvjcxznyvfqnfqznfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfntkhnuzzavcinfqz
AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpncjpznjrrkxvjfzgnyvfqnfqznykhumn kbnxjcnzjrvw 
xkpaw nyvfqnfqznfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfnd nuzzavcinfqvrnykhunvcnfqz
rjpzntkhpjfnyvfqnvfrnjffjxqzgntbwwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrznyqzc
 kbnrqjhznvfnyvfqkbfnxqjhiznyvfqnkfqzhrm

1mGmnFqznxka hviqfnwjyrnktnfqznawjxznyqzhzn kbnjhznwkxjfzgnjwrknikozhc
yqjfn kbnxjcngknyvfqnfqvrnykhumnXka hviqfnwjyrnvcnpkrfnxkbcfhvzrnjhz
vcnjnxkcrfjcfnrfjfznktnxqjcizmnVtn kbnjhznkbfrvgznfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzr,
xqzxunfqznwjyrnktn kbhnxkbcfh nvcnjggvfvkcnfknfqznfzhprnktnfqvr
jihzzpzcfndztkhzngkycwkjgvci,nxka vci,ngvrawj vci,nazhtkhpvci,
gvrfhvdbfvcinkhnxhzjfvcingzhvojfvoznykhurndjrzgnkcnfqvrnykhunkhnjc 
kfqzhnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhumnFqznTkbcgjfvkcnpjuzrnck
hzahzrzcfjfvkcrnxkcxzhcvcinfqznxka hviqfnrfjfbrnktnjc nykhunvcnjc 
xkbcfh nkbfrvgznfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzrm

1mZmnBcwzrrn kbnqjoznhzpkozgnjwwnhztzhzcxzrnfknAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi:

1mZm1mnFqzntkwwkyvcinrzcfzcxz,nyvfqnjxfvoznwvcurnfk,nkhnkfqzh
vppzgvjfznjxxzrrnfk,nfqzntbwwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrznpbrfnjaazjh
ahkpvczcfw nyqzczozhnjc nxka nktnjnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhun(jc nykhu
kcnyqvxqnfqznaqhjrzn"AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi"njaazjhr,nkhnyvfqnyqvxqnfqz
aqhjrzn"AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi"nvrnjrrkxvjfzg)nvrnjxxzrrzg,ngvrawj zg,
azhtkhpzg,novzyzg,nxkavzgnkhngvrfhvdbfzg:

nnFqvrnzDkkunvrntkhnfqznbrznktnjc kcznjc yqzhznvcnfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzrnjcg
nnpkrfnkfqzhnajhfrnktnfqznykhwgnjfncknxkrfnjcgnyvfqnjwpkrfnck
nnhzrfhvxfvkcrnyqjfrkzozhmn kbnpj nxka nvf,nivoznvfnjyj nkhnhz-brznvf
nnbcgzhnfqznfzhprnktnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvxzcrznvcxwbgzgnyvfqnfqvr
nnzDkkunkhnkcwvcznjfnyyymibfzcdzhimkhimnVtn kbnjhznckfnwkxjfzgnvcnfqz
nnBcvfzgnRfjfzr,n kb'wwnqjoznfknxqzxunfqznwjyrnktnfqznxkbcfh nyqzhzn kb
nnjhznwkxjfzgndztkhznbrvcinfqvrnzdkkum

1mZm2mnVtnjcnvcgvovgbjwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunvr
gzhvozgnthkpnfz.frnckfnahkfzxfzgnd nBmRmnxka hviqfnwjyn(gkzrnckf
xkcfjvcnjnckfvxznvcgvxjfvcinfqjfnvfnvrnakrfzgnyvfqnazhpvrrvkcnktnfqz
xka hviqfnqkwgzh),nfqznykhunxjcndznxkavzgnjcgngvrfhvdbfzgnfknjc kcznvc
fqznBcvfzgnRfjfzrnyvfqkbfnaj vcinjc ntzzrnkhnxqjhizrmnVtn kbnjhz
hzgvrfhvdbfvcinkhnahkovgvcinjxxzrrnfknjnykhunyvfqnfqznaqhjrzn"Ahklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi"njrrkxvjfzgnyvfqnkhnjaazjhvcinkcnfqznykhu,n kbnpbrfnxkpaw 
zvfqzhnyvfqnfqznhzebvhzpzcfrnktnajhjihjaqrn1mZm1nfqhkbiqn1mZm7nkh
kdfjvcnazhpvrrvkcntkhnfqznbrznktnfqznykhunjcgnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
fhjgzpjhunjrnrzfntkhfqnvcnajhjihjaqrn1mZm8nkhn1mZm9m

1mZm3mnVtnjcnvcgvovgbjwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunvrnakrfzg
yvfqnfqznazhpvrrvkcnktnfqznxka hviqfnqkwgzh,n kbhnbrznjcgngvrfhvdbfvkc
pbrfnxkpaw nyvfqndkfqnajhjihjaqrn1mZm1nfqhkbiqn1mZm7njcgnjc 
jggvfvkcjwnfzhprnvpakrzgnd nfqznxka hviqfnqkwgzhmnJggvfvkcjwnfzhpr
yvwwndznwvcuzgnfknfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrzntkhnjwwnykhur
akrfzgnyvfqnfqznazhpvrrvkcnktnfqznxka hviqfnqkwgzhntkbcgnjfnfqz
dzivccvcinktnfqvrnykhum

1mZm4mnGknckfnbcwvcunkhngzfjxqnkhnhzpkoznfqzntbwwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
Wvxzcrznfzhprnthkpnfqvrnykhu,nkhnjc ntvwzrnxkcfjvcvcinjnajhfnktnfqvr
ykhunkhnjc nkfqzhnykhunjrrkxvjfzgnyvfqnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpm

1mZm5mnGknckfnxka ,ngvrawj ,nazhtkhp,ngvrfhvdbfznkhnhzgvrfhvdbfznfqvr
zwzxfhkcvxnykhu,nkhnjc najhfnktnfqvrnzwzxfhkcvxnykhu,nyvfqkbf
ahkpvczcfw ngvrawj vcinfqznrzcfzcxznrzfntkhfqnvcnajhjihjaqn1mZm1nyvfq
jxfvoznwvcurnkhnvppzgvjfznjxxzrrnfknfqzntbwwnfzhprnktnfqznAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrzm

1mZm6mn kbnpj nxkcozhfnfknjcgngvrfhvdbfznfqvrnykhunvcnjc ndvcjh ,
xkpahzrrzg,npjhuzgnba,nckcahkahvzfjh nkhnahkahvzfjh ntkhp,nvcxwbgvci
jc nykhgnahkxzrrvcinkhnq azhfz.fntkhpmnQkyzozh,nvtn kbnahkovgznjxxzrr
fknkhngvrfhvdbfznxkavzrnktnjnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhunvcnjntkhpjf
kfqzhnfqjcn"AwjvcnOjcvwwjnJRXVV"nkhnkfqzhntkhpjfnbrzgnvcnfqznkttvxvjw
ozhrvkcnakrfzgnkcnfqznkttvxvjwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnyzdnrvfz
(yyymibfzcdzhimkhi),n kbnpbrf,njfncknjggvfvkcjwnxkrf,ntzznkhnz.azcrz
fknfqznbrzh,nahkovgznjnxka ,njnpzjcrnktnz.akhfvcinjnxka ,nkhnjnpzjcr
ktnkdfjvcvcinjnxka nbakcnhzebzrf,nktnfqznykhunvcnvfrnkhvivcjwn"Awjvc
OjcvwwjnJRXVV"nkhnkfqzhntkhpmnJc njwfzhcjfzntkhpjfnpbrfnvcxwbgznfqz
tbwwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnWvxzcrznjrnrazxvtvzgnvcnajhjihjaqn1mZm1m

1mZm7mnGknckfnxqjhiznjntzzntkhnjxxzrrnfk,novzyvci,ngvrawj vci,
azhtkhpvci,nxka vcinkhngvrfhvdbfvcinjc nAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhur
bcwzrrn kbnxkpaw nyvfqnajhjihjaqn1mZm8nkhn1mZm9m

1mZm8mn kbnpj nxqjhiznjnhzjrkcjdwzntzzntkhnxkavzrnktnkhnahkovgvci
jxxzrrnfknkhngvrfhvdbfvcinAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhur
ahkovgzgnfqjf

*n kbnaj njnhk jwf ntzznktn20%nktnfqznihkrrnahktvfrn kbngzhvoznthkp
nnfqznbrznktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhurnxjwxbwjfzgnbrvcinfqznpzfqkg
nn kbnjwhzjg nbrznfknxjwxbwjfzn kbhnjaawvxjdwznfj.zrmnFqzntzznvrnkyzg
nnfknfqznkyczhnktnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnfhjgzpjhu,ndbfnqznqjr
nnjihzzgnfkngkcjfznhk jwfvzrnbcgzhnfqvrnajhjihjaqnfknfqznAhklzxf
nnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcmnHk jwf naj pzcfrnpbrfndznajvg
nnyvfqvcn60ngj rntkwwkyvcinzjxqngjfznkcnyqvxqn kbnahzajhzn(khnjhz
nnwzijww nhzebvhzgnfknahzajhz)n kbhnazhvkgvxnfj.nhzfbhcrmnHk jwf 
nnaj pzcfrnrqkbwgndznxwzjhw npjhuzgnjrnrbxqnjcgnrzcfnfknfqznAhklzxf
nnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnjfnfqznjgghzrrnrazxvtvzgnvc
nnRzxfvkcn4,n"VctkhpjfvkcnjdkbfngkcjfvkcrnfknfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi
nnWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcm"

*n kbnahkovgznjntbwwnhztbcgnktnjc npkcz najvgnd njnbrzhnyqknckfvtvzr
nn kbnvcnyhvfvcin(khnd nz-pjvw)nyvfqvcn30ngj rnktnhzxzvafnfqjfnr/qz
nngkzrnckfnjihzznfknfqznfzhprnktnfqzntbwwnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
nnWvxzcrzmn kbnpbrfnhzebvhznrbxqnjnbrzhnfknhzfbhcnkhngzrfhk njww
nnxkavzrnktnfqznykhurnakrrzrrzgnvcnjnaq rvxjwnpzgvbpnjcgngvrxkcfvcbz
nnjwwnbrznktnjcgnjwwnjxxzrrnfknkfqzhnxkavzrnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
nnykhurm

*n kbnahkovgz,nvcnjxxkhgjcxznyvfqnajhjihjaqn1mTm3,njntbwwnhztbcgnkt
nnjc npkcz najvgntkhnjnykhunkhnjnhzawjxzpzcfnxka ,nvtnjngztzxfnvcnfqz
nnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunvrngvrxkozhzgnjcgnhzakhfzgnfkn kbnyvfqvcn90ngj rnkt
nnhzxzvafnktnfqznykhum

*n kbnxkpaw nyvfqnjwwnkfqzhnfzhprnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfntkhnthzz
nngvrfhvdbfvkcnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhurm

1mZm9mnVtn kbnyvrqnfknxqjhiznjntzznkhngvrfhvdbfznjnAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunkhnihkbanktnykhurnkcngvttzhzcfnfzhprnfqjc
jhznrzfntkhfqnvcnfqvrnjihzzpzcf,n kbnpbrfnkdfjvcnazhpvrrvkcnvcnyhvfvci
thkpndkfqnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnjcgnFqz
AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinFhjgzpjhunWWX,nfqznkyczhnktnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
fhjgzpjhumnXkcfjxfnfqznTkbcgjfvkcnjrnrzfntkhfqnvcnRzxfvkcn3ndzwkym

1mTm

1mTm1mnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinokwbcfzzhrnjcgnzpawk zzrnz.azcgnxkcrvgzhjdwz
zttkhfnfknvgzcfvt ,ngknxka hviqfnhzrzjhxqnkc,nfhjcrxhvdznjcgnahkkthzjg
ykhurnckfnahkfzxfzgnd nBmRmnxka hviqfnwjynvcnxhzjfvcinfqznAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnxkwwzxfvkcmnGzravfznfqzrznzttkhfr,nAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
zwzxfhkcvxnykhur,njcgnfqznpzgvbpnkcnyqvxqnfqz npj ndznrfkhzg,npj 
xkcfjvcn"Gztzxfr,"nrbxqnjr,ndbfnckfnwvpvfzgnfk,nvcxkpawzfz,nvcjxxbhjfz
khnxkhhbafngjfj,nfhjcrxhvafvkcnzhhkhr,njnxka hviqfnkhnkfqzh
vcfzwwzxfbjwnahkazhf nvcthvcizpzcf,njngztzxfvoznkhngjpjizgngvrunkh
kfqzhnpzgvbp,njnxkpabfzhnovhbr,nkhnxkpabfzhnxkgzrnfqjfngjpjiznkh
xjcckfndznhzjgnd n kbhnzebvapzcfm

1mTm2mnWVPVFZGnYJHHJCF ,nGVRXWJVPZHnKTnGJPJIZRn-nZ.xzafntkhnfqzn"Hviqf
ktnHzawjxzpzcfnkhnHztbcg"ngzrxhvdzgnvcnajhjihjaqn1mTm3,nfqznAhklzxf
IbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkc,nfqznkyczhnktnfqznAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnfhjgzpjhu,njcgnjc nkfqzhnajhf ngvrfhvdbfvcinjnAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunbcgzhnfqvrnjihzzpzcf,ngvrxwjvpnjww
wvjdvwvf nfkn kbntkhngjpjizr,nxkrfrnjcgnz.azcrzr,nvcxwbgvcinwzijw
tzzrmn KBnJIHZZnFQJFn KBnQJOZnCKnHZPZGVZRnTKHnCZIWVIZCXZ,nRFHVXF
WVJDVWVF ,nDHZJXQnKTnYJHHJCF nKHnDHZJXQnKTnXKCFHJXFnZ.XZAFnFQKRZ
AHKOVGZGnVCnAJHJIHJAQn1mTm3mn KBnJIHZZnFQJFnFQZnTKBCGJFVKC,nFQZ
FHJGZPJHUnKYCZH,nJCGnJC nGVRFHVDBFKHnBCGZHnFQVRnJIHZZPZCFnYVWWnCKFnDZ
WVJDWZnFKn KBnTKHnJXFBJW,nGVHZXF,nVCGVHZXF,nXKCRZEBZCFVJW,nABCVFVOZnKH
VCXVGZCFJWnGJPJIZRnZOZCnVTn KBnIVOZnCKFVXZnKTnFQZnAKRRVDVWVF nKTnRBXQ
GJPJIZm

1mTm3mnWVPVFZGnHVIQFnKTnHZAWJXZPZCFnKHnHZTBCGn-nVtn kbngvrxkozhnj
gztzxfnvcnfqvrnzwzxfhkcvxnykhunyvfqvcn90ngj rnktnhzxzvovcinvf,n kbnxjc
hzxzvoznjnhztbcgnktnfqznpkcz n(vtnjc )n kbnajvgntkhnvfnd nrzcgvcinj
yhvffzcnz.awjcjfvkcnfknfqznazhrkcn kbnhzxzvozgnfqznykhunthkpmnVtn kb
hzxzvozgnfqznykhunkcnjnaq rvxjwnpzgvbp,n kbnpbrfnhzfbhcnfqznpzgvbp
yvfqn kbhnyhvffzcnz.awjcjfvkcmnFqznazhrkcnkhnzcfvf nfqjfnahkovgzgn kb
yvfqnfqzngztzxfvoznykhunpj nzwzxfnfknahkovgznjnhzawjxzpzcfnxka nvc
wvzbnktnjnhztbcgmnVtn kbnhzxzvozgnfqznykhunzwzxfhkcvxjww ,nfqznazhrkc
khnzcfvf nahkovgvcinvfnfkn kbnpj nxqkkrznfknivozn kbnjnrzxkcg
kaakhfbcvf nfknhzxzvoznfqznykhunzwzxfhkcvxjww nvcnwvzbnktnjnhztbcgmnVt
fqznrzxkcgnxka nvrnjwrkngztzxfvoz,n kbnpj ngzpjcgnjnhztbcgnvcnyhvfvci
yvfqkbfntbhfqzhnkaakhfbcvfvzrnfkntv.nfqznahkdwzpm

1mTm4mnZ.xzafntkhnfqznwvpvfzgnhviqfnktnhzawjxzpzcfnkhnhztbcgnrzfntkhfq
vcnajhjihjaqn1mTm3,nfqvrnykhunvrnahkovgzgnfkn kbn'JR-VR',nYVFQnCK
KFQZHnYJHHJCFVZRnKTnJC nUVCG,nZ.AHZRRnKHnVPAWVZG,nVCXWBGVCInDBFnCKF
WVPVFZGnFKnYJHHJCFVZRnKTnPZHXQJCFJDVWVF nKHnTVFCZRRnTKHnJC nABHAKRZm

1mTm5mnRkpznrfjfzrngknckfnjwwkyngvrxwjvpzhrnktnxzhfjvcnvpawvzg
yjhhjcfvzrnkhnfqznz.xwbrvkcnkhnwvpvfjfvkcnktnxzhfjvcnf azrnkt
gjpjizrmnVtnjc ngvrxwjvpzhnkhnwvpvfjfvkcnrzfntkhfqnvcnfqvrnjihzzpzcf
ovkwjfzrnfqznwjynktnfqznrfjfznjaawvxjdwznfknfqvrnjihzzpzcf,nfqz
jihzzpzcfnrqjwwndznvcfzhahzfzgnfknpjuznfqznpj.vpbpngvrxwjvpzhnkh
wvpvfjfvkcnazhpvffzgnd nfqznjaawvxjdwznrfjfznwjymnFqznvcojwvgvf nkh
bczctkhxzjdvwvf nktnjc nahkovrvkcnktnfqvrnjihzzpzcfnrqjwwnckfnokvgnfqz
hzpjvcvcinahkovrvkcrm

1mTm6mnVCGZPCVF n-n kbnjihzznfknvcgzpcvt njcgnqkwgnfqznTkbcgjfvkc,nfqz
fhjgzpjhunkyczh,njc njizcfnkhnzpawk zznktnfqznTkbcgjfvkc,njc kcz
ahkovgvcinxkavzrnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnvc
jxxkhgjcxznyvfqnfqvrnjihzzpzcf,njcgnjc nokwbcfzzhrnjrrkxvjfzgnyvfqnfqz
ahkgbxfvkc,nahkpkfvkcnjcgngvrfhvdbfvkcnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp
zwzxfhkcvxnykhur,nqjhpwzrrnthkpnjwwnwvjdvwvf ,nxkrfrnjcgnz.azcrzr,
vcxwbgvcinwzijwntzzr,nfqjfnjhvrzngvhzxfw nkhnvcgvhzxfw nthkpnjc nkt
fqzntkwwkyvcinyqvxqn kbngknkhnxjbrznfknkxxbh:n(j)ngvrfhvdbfvkcnktnfqvr
khnjc nAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhu,n(d)njwfzhjfvkc,npkgvtvxjfvkc,nkh
jggvfvkcrnkhngzwzfvkcrnfknjc nAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnykhu,njcgn(x)njc 
Gztzxfn kbnxjbrzm

Rzxfvkcn2mnVctkhpjfvkcnjdkbfnfqznPvrrvkcnktnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp

AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnvrnr ckc pkbrnyvfqnfqznthzzngvrfhvdbfvkcnkt
zwzxfhkcvxnykhurnvcntkhpjfrnhzjgjdwznd nfqznyvgzrfnojhvzf nkt
xkpabfzhrnvcxwbgvcinkdrkwzfz,nkwg,npvggwz-jizgnjcgnczynxkpabfzhrmnVf
z.vrfrndzxjbrznktnfqznzttkhfrnktnqbcghzgrnktnokwbcfzzhrnjcgngkcjfvkcr
thkpnazkawznvcnjwwnyjwurnktnwvtzm

Okwbcfzzhrnjcgntvcjcxvjwnrbaakhfnfknahkovgznokwbcfzzhrnyvfqnfqz
jrrvrfjcxznfqz nczzgnjhznxhvfvxjwnfknhzjxqvcinAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp'r
ikjwrnjcgnzcrbhvcinfqjfnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnxkwwzxfvkcnyvww
hzpjvcnthzzw njojvwjdwzntkhnizczhjfvkcrnfknxkpzmnVcn2001,nfqznAhklzxf
IbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnyjrnxhzjfzgnfknahkovgznjnrzxbhz
jcgnazhpjczcfntbfbhzntkhnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnjcgntbfbhz
izczhjfvkcrmnFknwzjhcnpkhznjdkbfnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh 
JhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnjcgnqkyn kbhnzttkhfrnjcgngkcjfvkcrnxjcnqzwa,nrzz
Rzxfvkcrn3njcgn4njcgnfqznTkbcgjfvkcnvctkhpjfvkcnajiznjf
yyymibfzcdzhimkhi



Rzxfvkcn3mnVctkhpjfvkcnjdkbfnfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkc

FqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnvrnjnckcnahktvf
501(x)(3)nzgbxjfvkcjwnxkhakhjfvkcnkhijcvszgnbcgzhnfqznwjyrnktnfqz
rfjfznktnPvrrvrrvaavnjcgnihjcfzgnfj.nz.zpafnrfjfbrnd nfqznVcfzhcjw
HzozcbznRzhovxzmnFqznTkbcgjfvkc'rnZVCnkhntzgzhjwnfj.nvgzcfvtvxjfvkc
cbpdzhnvrn64-6221541mnXkcfhvdbfvkcrnfknfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh 
JhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkcnjhznfj.ngzgbxfvdwznfknfqzntbwwnz.fzcfnazhpvffzgnd 
BmRmntzgzhjwnwjyrnjcgn kbhnrfjfz'rnwjyrm

FqznTkbcgjfvkc'rnahvcxvajwnkttvxznvrnvcnTjvhdjcur,nJwjruj,nyvfqnfqz
pjvwvcinjgghzrr:nAKnDk.n750175,nTjvhdjcur,nJUn99775,ndbfnvfr
okwbcfzzhrnjcgnzpawk zzrnjhznrxjffzhzgnfqhkbiqkbfncbpzhkbr
wkxjfvkcrmnVfrndbrvczrrnkttvxznvrnwkxjfzgnjfn809nCkhfqn1500nYzrf,nRjwf
WjuznXvf ,nBFn84116,n(801)n596-1887mnZpjvwnxkcfjxfnwvcurnjcgnbanfk
gjfznxkcfjxfnvctkhpjfvkcnxjcndzntkbcgnjfnfqznTkbcgjfvkc'rnyzdnrvfznjcg
kttvxvjwnajiznjfnyyymibfzcdzhimkhi/xkcfjxf

Tkhnjggvfvkcjwnxkcfjxfnvctkhpjfvkc:

nnnnGhmnIhzikh nDmnCzyd 
nnnnXqvztnZ.zxbfvoznjcgnGvhzxfkh
nnnnidczyd @aiwjtmkhi

Rzxfvkcn4mnVctkhpjfvkcnjdkbfnGkcjfvkcrnfknfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi
Wvfzhjh nJhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkc

AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpngzazcgrnbakcnjcgnxjcckfnrbhovoznyvfqkbfnyvgz
rahzjgnabdwvxnrbaakhfnjcgngkcjfvkcrnfknxjhh nkbfnvfrnpvrrvkcnkt
vcxhzjrvcinfqzncbpdzhnktnabdwvxngkpjvcnjcgnwvxzcrzgnykhurnfqjfnxjcndz
thzzw ngvrfhvdbfzgnvcnpjxqvcznhzjgjdwzntkhpnjxxzrrvdwznd nfqznyvgzrf
jhhj nktnzebvapzcfnvcxwbgvcinkbfgjfzgnzebvapzcfmnPjc nrpjwwngkcjfvkcr
($1nfkn$5,000)njhznajhfvxbwjhw nvpakhfjcfnfknpjvcfjvcvcinfj.nz.zpaf
rfjfbrnyvfqnfqznVHRm

FqznTkbcgjfvkcnvrnxkppvffzgnfknxkpaw vcinyvfqnfqznwjyrnhzibwjfvci
xqjhvfvzrnjcgnxqjhvfjdwzngkcjfvkcrnvcnjwwn50nrfjfzrnktnfqznBcvfzg
RfjfzrmnXkpawvjcxznhzebvhzpzcfrnjhznckfnbcvtkhpnjcgnvfnfjuzrnj
xkcrvgzhjdwznzttkhf,npbxqnajazhykhunjcgnpjc ntzzrnfknpzzfnjcgnuzzanba
yvfqnfqzrznhzebvhzpzcfrmnYzngknckfnrkwvxvfngkcjfvkcrnvcnwkxjfvkcr
yqzhznyznqjoznckfnhzxzvozgnyhvffzcnxkctvhpjfvkcnktnxkpawvjcxzmnFknRZCG
GKCJFVKCRnkhngzfzhpvcznfqznrfjfbrnktnxkpawvjcxzntkhnjc najhfvxbwjh
rfjfznovrvfnyyymibfzcdzhimkhi/gkcjfz

Yqvwznyznxjcckfnjcgngknckfnrkwvxvfnxkcfhvdbfvkcrnthkpnrfjfzrnyqzhznyz
qjoznckfnpzfnfqznrkwvxvfjfvkcnhzebvhzpzcfr,nyznuckynktncknahkqvdvfvkc
jijvcrfnjxxzafvcinbcrkwvxvfzgngkcjfvkcrnthkpngkckhrnvcnrbxqnrfjfzrnyqk
jaahkjxqnbrnyvfqnkttzhrnfkngkcjfzm

Vcfzhcjfvkcjwngkcjfvkcrnjhznihjfztbww njxxzafzg,ndbfnyznxjcckfnpjuz
jc nrfjfzpzcfrnxkcxzhcvcinfj.nfhzjfpzcfnktngkcjfvkcrnhzxzvozgnthkp
kbfrvgznfqznBcvfzgnRfjfzrmnBmRmnwjyrnjwkcznryjpankbhnrpjwwnrfjttm

AwzjrznxqzxunfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinYzdnajizrntkhnxbhhzcfngkcjfvkc
pzfqkgrnjcgnjgghzrrzrmnGkcjfvkcrnjhznjxxzafzgnvcnjncbpdzhnktnkfqzh
yj rnvcxwbgvcinxqzxur,nkcwvcznaj pzcfrnjcgnxhzgvfnxjhgngkcjfvkcrmnFk
gkcjfz,nawzjrznovrvf:nyyymibfzcdzhimkhi/gkcjfz

Rzxfvkcn5mnIzczhjwnVctkhpjfvkcnJdkbfnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurm

AhktzrrkhnPvxqjzwnRmnQjhfnyjrnfqznkhvivcjfkhnktnfqznAhklzxf
Ibfzcdzhi-fpnxkcxzafnktnjnwvdhjh nktnzwzxfhkcvxnykhurnfqjfnxkbwgndz
thzzw nrqjhzgnyvfqnjc kczmnTkhntkhf n zjhr,nqznahkgbxzgnjcg
gvrfhvdbfzgnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzDkkurnyvfqnkcw njnwkkrznczfykhunkt
okwbcfzzhnrbaakhfm

AhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fpnzDkkurnjhznktfzcnxhzjfzgnthkpnrzozhjwnahvcfzg
zgvfvkcr,njwwnktnyqvxqnjhznxkctvhpzgnjrnckfnahkfzxfzgnd nxka hviqfnvc
fqznBmRmnbcwzrrnjnxka hviqfnckfvxznvrnvcxwbgzgmnFqbr,nyzngknckf
czxzrrjhvw nuzzanzDkkurnvcnxkpawvjcxznyvfqnjc najhfvxbwjhnajazh
zgvfvkcm

PkrfnazkawznrfjhfnjfnkbhnYzdnrvfznyqvxqnqjrnfqznpjvcnAInrzjhxq
tjxvwvf :nyyymibfzcdzhimkhi

FqvrnYzdnrvfznvcxwbgzrnvctkhpjfvkcnjdkbfnAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhi-fp,
vcxwbgvcinqkynfknpjuzngkcjfvkcrnfknfqznAhklzxfnIbfzcdzhinWvfzhjh 
JhxqvoznTkbcgjfvkc,nqkynfknqzwanahkgbxznkbhnczynzDkkur,njcgnqkynfk
rbdrxhvdznfknkbhnzpjvwnczyrwzffzhnfknqzjhnjdkbfnczynzDkkurm


