WyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnJZqqfnqbnUnTwp.xnRgnTmucojw,nzxnUcwypcnMqgugn.qxoj

WyrtnjZqqfnrtnbqcnwyjnptjnqbnugxqgjnugxhyjcjnuwngqnmqtwnug.nhrwy
uovqtwngqncjtwcrmwrqgtnhyuwtqjsjcennXqpnvuxnmqkxnrw,nlrsjnrwnuhuxnqc
cj-ptjnrwnpg.jcnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrmjgtjnrgmop.j.
hrwynwyrtnjZqqfnqcnqgorgjnuwnhhhelpwjgzjcleqcl


Wrwoj:nUnTwp.xnRgnTmucojw

Upwyqc:nUcwypcnMqgugn.qxoj

Kqtwrgln.uwj:n poxn12,n2008n[JZqqfn#244]
Cjojutjn.uwj:nUkcro,n1995
OutwnPk.uwj.:nTjkwjvzjcn30,n2016

Ouglpulj:nJglorty

Myucumwjcntjwnjgmq.rgl:nPWB-8

***nTWUCWnQBnWYRTnKCQ JMWnLPWJGZJCLnJZQQFnUnTWP.XnRGnTMUCOJWn***




Kcq.pmj.nzxnCqljcnTiprcjt





UnTWP.XnRGnTMUCOJWe

ZxnUenMqgugn.qxoj

[1]



nnnnnQcrlrguonWcugtmcrzjc’tnGqwj:nWyrtnjwjawnrtnkcjkucj.n.rcjmwox
nnnnnbcqvnugn1887nj.rwrqg,nug.nmucjnyutnzjjgnwufjgnwqn.pkormuwjnwyj
nnnnnqcrlrguonjaumwox,nrgmop.rglnwxkqlcukyrmuonug.nkpgmwpuwrqg
nnnnnsulucrjte

nnnnnU..rwrqgtnwqnwyjnwjawnrgmop.jnu..rglnwyjnpg.jctmqcjnmyucumwjcnwq
nnnnnrg.rmuwjnrwuormt,nug.nwjawpuonjg.-gqwjtnrgntipucjnzcumjte

nnnnnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnJ.rwqc’tnGqwj:nRgncjkcqqbrglnug.nvqsrglnqo.nKL
nnnnnbrojtntpmynutnwyrtnwqnwyjnkcjtjgwnKLn.rcjmwqcxntxtwjvnrwnrtnwyj
nnnnnkqormxnwqncjbqcvuwnwyjnwjawnwqnmqgbqcvnwqnkcjtjgwnKLnTwug.uc.te
nnnnnRgnwyrtnmutjnyqhjsjc,nrgnmqgtr.jcuwrqgnqbnwyjngqwjnuzqsjnqbnwyj
nnnnnqcrlrguonwcugtmcrzjcn.jtmcrzrglnyrtnmucjnwqnwcxnwqn.pkormuwjnwyj
nnnnnqcrlrguon1887nj.rwrqgnutnwqnwxkqlcukyxnug.nkpgmwpuwrqgnsulucrjt,
nnnnngqnmyugljtnyusjnzjjgnvu.jnrgnwyrtnutmrrnwjawnbrojenYqhjsjc,nrg
nnnnnwyjnOuwrg-1nbrojnug.nwyrtnywvonbroj,nkcjtjgwntwug.uc.tnucj
nnnnnbqooqhj.nug.nwyjntjsjcuonBcjgmynug.nTkugrtynhqc.tnyusjnzjjg
nnnnnlrsjgnwyjrcnkcqkjcnummjgwte

	nKucwnRR,nWyjnMqpgwcxnqbnwyjnTurgwt,n.juotnvpmynhrwynwyjnVqcvqgnMypcmye




UnTWP.XnRGnTMUCOJWe





KUCWnRe

(_Zjrglnuncjkcrgwnbcqvnwyjncjvrgrtmjgmjtnqb_n QYGnYenHUWTQG,nVe.e,n_ouwj
qbnwyjnUcvxnVj.rmuon.jkucwvjgwe_)n[2]




MYUKWJCnRenVCenTYJCOQMFnYQOVJTe


RGnwyjnxjucn1878nRnwqqfnvxn.jlcjjnqbn.qmwqcnqbnVj.rmrgjnqbnwyj
PgrsjctrwxnqbnOqg.qg,nug.nkcqmjj.j.nwqnGjwojxnwqnlqnwycqplynwyjnmqpctj
kcjtmcrzj.nbqcntpcljqgtnrgnwyjnucvxenYusrglnmqvkojwj.nvxntwp.rjtnwyjcj,
Rnhutn.poxnuwwumyj.nwqnwyjnBrbwynGqcwypvzjcoug.nBptrorjctnutnUttrtwugw
TpcljqgenWyjncjlrvjgwnhutntwuwrqgj.nrgnRg.runuwnwyjnwrvj,nug.nzjbqcj
Rnmqpo.n qrgnrw,nwyjntjmqg.nUblyugnhucnyu.nzcqfjgnqpwenQgnoug.rglnuw
Zqvzux,nRnojucgj.nwyuwnvxnmqcktnyu.nu.sugmj.nwycqplynwyjnkuttjt,nug.
hutnuocju.xn.jjknrgnwyjnjgjvx’tnmqpgwcxenRnbqooqhj.,nyqhjsjc,nhrwynvugx
qwyjcnqbbrmjctnhyqnhjcjnrgnwyjntuvjntrwpuwrqgnutnvxtjob,nug.ntpmmjj.j.
rgncjumyrglnMug.uyucnrgntubjwx,nhyjcjnRnbqpg.nvxncjlrvjgw,nug.nuwnqgmj
jgwjcj.npkqgnvxngjhn.pwrjte

Wyjnmuvkurlgnzcqplywnyqgqpctnug.nkcqvqwrqgnwqnvugx,nzpwnbqcnvjnrwnyu.
gqwyrglnzpwnvrtbqcwpgjnug.n.rtutwjcenRnhutncjvqsj.nbcqvnvxnzcrlu.jnug.
uwwumyj.nwqnwyjnZjcftyrcjt,nhrwynhyqvnRntjcsj.nuwnwyjnbuwuonzuwwojnqb
Vurhug.enWyjcjnRnhutntwcpmfnqgnwyjntyqpo.jcnzxnun jduronzpoojw,nhyrmy
tyuwwjcj.nwyjnzqgjnug.nlcudj.nwyjntpzmousrugnucwjcxenRntyqpo.nyusj
buoojgnrgwqnwyjnyug.tnqbnwyjnvpc.jcqptnLyudrtnyu.nrwngqwnzjjgnbqcnwyj
.jsqwrqgnug.nmqpculjntyqhgnzxnVpccux,nvxnqc.jcox,nhyqnwycjhnvjnumcqttnu
kumf-yqctj,nug.ntpmmjj.j.nrgnzcrglrglnvjntubjoxnwqnwyjnZcrwrtynorgjte

Hqcgnhrwynkurg,nug.nhjufnbcqvnwyjnkcqoqglj.nyuc.tyrktnhyrmynRnyu.
pg.jclqgj,nRnhutncjvqsj.,nhrwynunlcjuwnwcurgnqbnhqpg.j.ntpbbjcjct,nwq
wyjnzutjnyqtkrwuonuwnKjtyuhucenYjcjnRncuoorj.,nug.nyu.nuocju.xnrvkcqsj.
tqnbucnutnwqnzjnuzojnwqnhuofnuzqpwnwyjnhuc.t,nug.njsjgnwqnzutfnunorwwoj
pkqgnwyjnsjcug.uy,nhyjgnRnhutntwcpmfn.qhgnzxnjgwjcrmnbjsjc,nwyuwnmpctj
qbnqpcnRg.rugnkqttjttrqgtenBqcnvqgwytnvxnorbjnhutn.jtkurcj.nqb,nug.
hyjgnuwnoutwnRnmuvjnwqnvxtjobnug.nzjmuvjnmqgsuojtmjgw,nRnhutntqnhjufnug.
jvumruwj.nwyuwnunvj.rmuonzquc.n.jwjcvrgj.nwyuwngqwnun.uxntyqpo.nzjnoqtw
rgntjg.rglnvjnzumfnwqnJgloug.enRnhutn.rtkuwmyj.,nummqc.rglox,nrgnwyj
wcqqktyrkn“Qcqgwjt,”nug.noug.j.nunvqgwynouwjcnqgnKqcwtvqpwyn jwwx,nhrwy
vxnyjuowynrccjwcrjsuzoxncprgj.,nzpwnhrwynkjcvrttrqgnbcqvnunkuwjcguo
lqsjcgvjgwnwqntkjg.nwyjngjawngrgjnvqgwytnrgnuwwjvkwrglnwqnrvkcqsjnrwe

Rnyu.ngjrwyjcnfrwyngqcnfrgnrgnJgloug.,nug.nhutnwyjcjbqcjnutnbcjjnut
urc--qcnutnbcjjnutnugnrgmqvjnqbnjojsjgntyroorgltnug.ntrakjgmjnun.uxnhroo
kjcvrwnunvugnwqnzjenPg.jcntpmynmrcmpvtwugmjt,nRnguwpcuooxnlcusrwuwj.nwq
Oqg.qg,nwyuwnlcjuwnmjttkqqonrgwqnhyrmynuoonwyjnoqpgljctnug.nr.ojctnqb
wyjnJvkrcjnucjnrccjtrtwrzoxn.curgj.enWyjcjnRntwuxj.nbqcntqvjnwrvjnuw
unkcrsuwjnyqwjonrgnwyjnTwcug.,noju.rglnunmqvbqcwojtt,nvjugrglojtt
jartwjgmj,nug.ntkjg.rglntpmynvqgjxnutnRnyu.,nmqgtr.jcuzoxnvqcjnbcjjox
wyugnRnqplywenTqnuoucvrgln.r.nwyjntwuwjnqbnvxnbrgugmjtnzjmqvj,nwyuw
Rntqqgncjuordj.nwyuwnRnvptwnjrwyjcnojusjnwyjnvjwcqkqortnug.ncptwrmuwj
tqvjhyjcjnrgnwyjnmqpgwcx,nqcnwyuwnRnvptwnvufjnunmqvkojwjnuowjcuwrqgnrg
vxntwxojnqbnorsrglenMyqqtrglnwyjnouwwjcnuowjcguwrsj,nRnzjlugnzxnvufrgl
pknvxnvrg.nwqnojusjnwyjnyqwjo,nug.nwqnwufjnpknvxnipucwjctnrgntqvjnojtt
kcjwjgwrqptnug.nojttnjakjgtrsjn.qvrmroje

Qgnwyjnsjcxn.uxnwyuwnRnyu.nmqvjnwqnwyrtnmqgmoptrqg,nRnhutntwug.rglnuw
wyjnMcrwjcrqgnZuc,nhyjgntqvjnqgjnwukkj.nvjnqgnwyjntyqpo.jc,nug.nwpcgrgl
cqpg.nRncjmqlgrdj.nxqpglnTwuvbqc.,nhyqnyu.nzjjgnun.cjttjcnpg.jcnvjnuw
ZucwtenWyjntrlywnqbnunbcrjg.oxnbumjnrgnwyjnlcjuwnhro.jcgjttnqbnOqg.qgnrt
unkojutugwnwyrglnrg.jj.nwqnunoqgjoxnvugenRgnqo.n.uxtnTwuvbqc.nyu.ngjsjc
zjjgnunkucwrmpoucnmcqgxnqbnvrgj,nzpwngqhnRnyuroj.nyrvnhrwynjgwyptrutv,
ug.nyj,nrgnyrtnwpcg,nukkjucj.nwqnzjn.jorlywj.nwqntjjnvjenRgnwyj
japzjcugmjnqbnvxn qx,nRnutfj.nyrvnwqnopgmynhrwynvjnuwnwyjnYqozqcg,nug.
hjntwucwj.nqbbnwqljwyjcnrgnunyugtqve

“Hyuwjsjcnyusjnxqpnzjjgn.qrglnhrwynxqpctjob,nHuwtqg?”nyjnutfj.nrg
pg.rtlprtj.nhqg.jc,nutnhjncuwwoj.nwycqplynwyjnmcqh.j.nOqg.qgntwcjjwte
“Xqpnucjnutnwyrgnutnunouwynug.nutnzcqhgnutnungpwe”

Rnlusjnyrvnuntyqcwntfjwmynqbnvxnu.sjgwpcjt,nug.nyu.nyuc.oxnmqgmop.j.nrw
zxnwyjnwrvjnwyuwnhjncjumyj.nqpcn.jtwrguwrqge

“Kqqcn.jsro!”nyjntur.,nmqvvrtjcuwrglox,nubwjcnyjnyu.nortwjgj.nwqnvx
vrtbqcwpgjten“Hyuwnucjnxqpnpknwqngqh?”

“Oqqfrglnbqcnoq.lrglte”n[3]nRnugthjcj.en“Wcxrglnwqntqosjnwyjnkcqzojv
utnwqnhyjwyjcnrwnrtnkqttrzojnwqnljwnmqvbqcwuzojncqqvtnuwnuncjutqguzoj
kcrmje”

“Wyuw’tnuntwcugljnwyrgl,”ncjvucfj.nvxnmqvkugrqg;n“xqpnucjnwyjntjmqg.nvug
wq-.uxnwyuwnyutnptj.nwyuwnjakcjttrqgnwqnvje”

“Ug.nhyqnhutnwyjnbrctw?”nRnutfj.e

“Unbjooqhnhyqnrtnhqcfrglnuwnwyjnmyjvrmuonouzqcuwqcxnpknuwnwyjnyqtkrwuoe
Yjnhutnzjvqugrglnyrvtjobnwyrtnvqcgrglnzjmuptjnyjnmqpo.ngqwnljwntqvjqgj
wqnlqnyuosjtnhrwynyrvnrgntqvjngrmjncqqvtnhyrmynyjnyu.nbqpg.,nug.nhyrmy
hjcjnwqqnvpmynbqcnyrtnkpctje”

“Zxn qsj!”nRnmcrj.,n“rbnyjncjuooxnhugwtntqvjqgjnwqntyucjnwyjncqqvtnug.
wyjnjakjgtj,nRnuvnwyjnsjcxnvugnbqcnyrvenRntyqpo.nkcjbjcnyusrglnunkucwgjc
wqnzjrglnuoqgje”

XqpglnTwuvbqc.noqqfj.ncuwyjcntwcugljoxnuwnvjnqsjcnyrtnhrgj-loutten“Xqp
.qg’wnfgqhnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnxjw,”nyjntur.;n“kjcyuktnxqpnhqpo.ngqwnmucj
bqcnyrvnutnunmqgtwugwnmqvkugrqge”

“Hyx,nhyuwnrtnwyjcjnulurgtwnyrv?”

“Qy,nRn.r.g’wntuxnwyjcjnhutnugxwyrglnulurgtwnyrvenYjnrtnunorwwojnipjjc
rgnyrtnr.jut--ugnjgwyptrutwnrgntqvjnzcugmyjtnqbntmrjgmjenUtnbucnutnR
fgqhnyjnrtnun.jmjgwnbjooqhnjgqplye”

“Unvj.rmuontwp.jgw,nRntpkkqtj?”ntur.nRe

“Gq--Rnyusjngqnr.junhyuwnyjnrgwjg.tnwqnlqnrgnbqcenRnzjorjsjnyjnrtnhjoo
pknrgnuguwqvx,nug.nyjnrtnunbrctw-mouttnmyjvrtw;nzpw,nutnbucnutnRnfgqh,
yjnyutngjsjcnwufjgnqpwnugxntxtwjvuwrmnvj.rmuonmouttjtenYrtntwp.rjtnucj
sjcxn.jtpowqcxnug.njmmjgwcrm,nzpwnyjnyutnuvuttj.nunoqwnqbnqpw-qb-wyjnhux
fgqhoj.ljnhyrmynhqpo.nutwqgrtynyrtnkcqbjttqcte”

“.r.nxqpngjsjcnutfnyrvnhyuwnyjnhutnlqrglnrgnbqc?”nRnutfj.e

“Gq;nyjnrtngqwnunvugnwyuwnrwnrtnjutxnwqn.cuhnqpw,nwyqplynyjnmugnzj
mqvvpgrmuwrsjnjgqplynhyjgnwyjnbugmxntjrdjtnyrve”

“Rntyqpo.norfjnwqnvjjwnyrv,”nRntur.en“RbnRnuvnwqnoq.ljnhrwynugxqgj,nR
tyqpo.nkcjbjcnunvugnqbntwp.rqptnug.niprjwnyuzrwtenRnuvngqwntwcqgl
jgqplynxjwnwqntwug.nvpmyngqrtjnqcnjamrwjvjgwenRnyu.njgqplynqbnzqwynrg
Ublyugrtwugnwqnoutwnvjnbqcnwyjncjvurg.jcnqbnvxnguwpcuonjartwjgmjenYqh
mqpo.nRnvjjwnwyrtnbcrjg.nqbnxqpct?”

“Yjnrtntpcjnwqnzjnuwnwyjnouzqcuwqcx,”ncjwpcgj.nvxnmqvkugrqgen“Yjnjrwyjc
usqr.tnwyjnkoumjnbqcnhjjft,nqcnjotjnyjnhqcftnwyjcjnbcqvnvqcgrglnwq
grlywenRbnxqpnorfj,nhjntyuoon.crsjncqpg.nwqljwyjcnubwjcnopgmyjqge”

“Mjcwurgox,”nRnugthjcj.,nug.nwyjnmqgsjctuwrqgn.crbwj.nuhuxnrgwqnqwyjc
myuggjote

Utnhjnvu.jnqpcnhuxnwqnwyjnyqtkrwuonubwjcnojusrglnwyjnYqozqcg,nTwuvbqc.
lusjnvjnunbjhnvqcjnkucwrmpouctnuzqpwnwyjnljgwojvugnhyqvnRnkcqkqtj.nwq
wufjnutnunbjooqh-oq.ljce

“Xqpnvptwg’wnzouvjnvjnrbnxqpn.qg’wnljwnqgnhrwynyrv,”nyjntur.;n“Rnfgqh
gqwyrglnvqcjnqbnyrvnwyugnRnyusjnojucgj.nbcqvnvjjwrglnyrvnqmmutrqguooxnrg
wyjnouzqcuwqcxenXqpnkcqkqtj.nwyrtnuccugljvjgw,ntqnxqpnvptwngqwnyqo.nvj
cjtkqgtrzoje”

“Rbnhjn.qg’wnljwnqgnrwnhroonzjnjutxnwqnkucwnmqvkugx,”nRnugthjcj.en“Rw
tjjvtnwqnvj,nTwuvbqc.,”nRnu..j.,noqqfrglnyuc.nuwnvxnmqvkugrqg,n“wyuwnxqp
yusjntqvjncjutqgnbqcnhutyrglnxqpcnyug.tnqbnwyjnvuwwjcenRtnwyrtnbjooqh’t
wjvkjcntqnbqcvr.uzoj,nqcnhyuwnrtnrw?n.qg’wnzjnvjuox-vqpwyj.nuzqpwnrwe”

“Rwnrtngqwnjutxnwqnjakcjttnwyjnrgjakcjttrzoj,”nyjnugthjcj.nhrwynunouplye
“Yqovjtnrtnunorwwojnwqqntmrjgwrbrmnbqcnvxnwutwjt--rwnukkcqumyjtnwq
mqo.-zoqq.j.gjttenRnmqpo.nrvulrgjnyrtnlrsrglnunbcrjg.nunorwwojnkrgmynqb
wyjnouwjtwnsjljwuzojnuofuoqr.,ngqwnqpwnqbnvuojsqojgmj,nxqpnpg.jctwug.,
zpwntrvkoxnqpwnqbnuntkrcrwnqbnrgiprcxnrgnqc.jcnwqnyusjnugnummpcuwjnr.ju
qbnwyjnjbbjmwtenWqn.qnyrvn ptwrmj,nRnwyrgfnwyuwnyjnhqpo.nwufjnrwnyrvtjob
hrwynwyjntuvjncju.rgjttenYjnukkjuctnwqnyusjnunkuttrqgnbqcn.jbrgrwjnug.
jaumwnfgqhoj.lje”

“Sjcxncrlywnwqqe”

“Xjt,nzpwnrwnvuxnzjnkptyj.nwqnjamjttenHyjgnrwnmqvjtnwqnzjuwrglnwyj
tpz jmwtnrgnwyjn.rttjmwrgl-cqqvtnhrwynuntwrmf,nrwnrtnmjcwurgoxnwufrgl
cuwyjcnunzrduccjntyukje”

“Zjuwrglnwyjntpz jmwt!”

“Xjt,nwqnsjcrbxnyqhnbucnzcprtjtnvuxnzjnkcq.pmj.nubwjcn.juwyenRntuhnyrv
uwnrwnhrwynvxnqhgnjxjte”

“Ug.nxjwnxqpntuxnyjnrtngqwnunvj.rmuontwp.jgw?”

“GqenYjusjgnfgqhtnhyuwnwyjnqz jmwtnqbnyrtntwp.rjtnucjenZpwnyjcjnhj
ucj,nug.nxqpnvptwnbqcvnxqpcnqhgnrvkcjttrqgtnuzqpwnyrve”nUtnyjntkqfj,nhj
wpcgj.n.qhgnunguccqhnougjnug.nkuttj.nwycqplynuntvuoontr.j-.qqc,nhyrmy
qkjgj.nrgwqnunhrglnqbnwyjnlcjuwnyqtkrwuoenRwnhutnbuvrorucnlcqpg.nwqnvj,
ug.nRngjj.j.ngqnlpr.rglnutnhjnutmjg.j.nwyjnzojufntwqgjntwurcmutjnug.
vu.jnqpcnhuxn.qhgnwyjnoqglnmqccr.qcnhrwynrwtnsrtwunqbnhyrwjhutyj.
huoonug.n.pg-mqoqpcj.n.qqctenGjucnwyjnbpcwyjcnjg.nunoqhnucmyj.nkuttulj
zcugmyj.nuhuxnbcqvnrwnug.noj.nwqnwyjnmyjvrmuonouzqcuwqcxe

Wyrtnhutnunoqbwxnmyuvzjc,norgj.nug.norwwjcj.nhrwynmqpgwojttnzqwwojte
Zcqu.,noqhnwuzojtnhjcjntmuwwjcj.nuzqpw,nhyrmynzcrtwoj.nhrwyncjwqcwt,
wjtw-wpzjt,nug.norwwojnZpgtjgnouvkt,nhrwynwyjrcnzopjnbormfjcrglnbouvjte
Wyjcjnhutnqgoxnqgjntwp.jgwnrgnwyjncqqv,nhyqnhutnzjg.rglnqsjcnun.rtwugw
wuzojnuztqczj.nrgnyrtnhqcfenUwnwyjntqpg.nqbnqpcntwjktnyjnlougmj.ncqpg.
ug.ntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjwnhrwynunmcxnqbnkojutpcjen“R’sjnbqpg.nrw!nR’sj
bqpg.nrw,”nyjntyqpwj.nwqnvxnmqvkugrqg,ncpggrglnwqhuc.tnptnhrwynu
wjtw-wpzjnrgnyrtnyug.en“Rnyusjnbqpg.nuncj-uljgwnhyrmynrtnkcjmrkrwuwj.
zxnyqjvqloqzrg,n[4]nug.nzxngqwyrglnjotje”nYu.nyjn.rtmqsjcj.nunlqo.nvrgj,
lcjuwjcn.jorlywnmqpo.ngqwnyusjntyqgjnpkqgnyrtnbjuwpcjte

“.cenHuwtqg,nVcenTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,”ntur.nTwuvbqc.,nrgwcq.pmrglnpte

“Yqhnucjnxqp?”nyjntur.nmqc.ruoox,nlcrkkrglnvxnyug.nhrwynuntwcjglwy
bqcnhyrmynRntyqpo.nyuc.oxnyusjnlrsjgnyrvnmcj.rwen“Xqpnyusjnzjjgnrg
Ublyugrtwug,nRnkjcmjrsje”

“Yqhnqgnjucwyn.r.nxqpnfgqhnwyuw?”nRnutfj.nrgnutwqgrtyvjgwe

“Gjsjcnvrg.,”ntur.nyj,nmypmforglnwqnyrvtjoben“Wyjnipjtwrqgngqhnrtnuzqpw
yqjvqloqzrgenGqn.qpzwnxqpntjjnwyjntrlgrbrmugmjnqbnwyrtn.rtmqsjcxnqb
vrgj?”

“Rwnrtnrgwjcjtwrgl,nmyjvrmuoox,ngqn.qpzw,”nRnugthjcj.,n“zpw
kcumwrmuoox----”

“Hyx,nvug,nrwnrtnwyjnvqtwnkcumwrmuonvj.rmq-ojluon.rtmqsjcxnbqcnxjucte
.qg’wnxqpntjjnwyuwnrwnlrsjtnptnugnrgbuoorzojnwjtwnbqcnzoqq.ntwurgtenMqvj
qsjcnyjcjngqh!”nYjntjrdj.nvjnzxnwyjnmquw-tojjsjnrgnyrtnjuljcgjtt,nug.
.cjhnvjnqsjcnwqnwyjnwuzojnuwnhyrmynyjnyu.nzjjgnhqcfrglen“Ojwnptnyusj
tqvjnbcjtynzoqq.,”nyjntur.,n.rllrglnunoqglnzq.frgnrgwqnyrtnbrgljc,nug.
.cuhrglnqbbnwyjncjtpowrgln.cqknqbnzoqq.nrgnunmyjvrmuonkrkjwwjen“Gqh,nR
u..nwyrtntvuoonipugwrwxnqbnzoqq.nwqnunorwcjnqbnhuwjcenXqpnkjcmjrsjnwyuw
wyjncjtpowrglnvrawpcjnyutnwyjnukkjucugmjnqbnkpcjnhuwjcenWyjnkcqkqcwrqg
qbnzoqq.nmuggqwnzjnvqcjnwyugnqgjnrgnunvroorqgenRnyusjngqn.qpzw,nyqhjsjc,
wyuwnhjntyuoonzjnuzojnwqnqzwurgnwyjnmyucumwjcrtwrmncjumwrqge”nUtnyj
tkqfj,nyjnwycjhnrgwqnwyjnsjttjonunbjhnhyrwjnmcxtwuot,nug.nwyjgnu..j.
tqvjn.cqktnqbnunwcugtkucjgwnbopr.enRgnugnrgtwugwnwyjnmqgwjgwtnuttpvj.nu
.poonvuyqlugxnmqoqpc,nug.nunzcqhgrtyn.ptwnhutnkcjmrkrwuwj.nwqnwyjnzqwwqv
qbnwyjnlouttn uce

“Yu!nyu!”nyjnmcrj.,nmoukkrglnyrtnyug.t,nug.noqqfrglnutn.jorlywj.nutnu
myro.nhrwynungjhnwqxen“Hyuwn.qnxqpnwyrgfnqbnwyuw?”

“Rwntjjvtnwqnzjnunsjcxn.jormuwjnwjtw,”nRncjvucfj.e

“Zjupwrbpo!nzjupwrbpo!nWyjnqo.nLprumpvnwjtwnhutnsjcxnmopvtxnug.
pgmjcwurgenTqnrtnwyjnvrmcqtmqkrmnjauvrguwrqgnbqcnzoqq.nmqckptmojtenWyj
ouwwjcnrtnsuopjojttnrbnwyjntwurgtnucjnunbjhnyqpctnqo.enGqh,nwyrtnukkjuct
wqnumwnutnhjoonhyjwyjcnwyjnzoqq.nrtnqo.nqcngjhenYu.nwyrtnwjtwnzjjg
rgsjgwj.,nwyjcjnucjnypg.cj.tnqbnvjgngqhnhuofrglnwyjnjucwynhyqnhqpo.noqgl
ulqnyusjnkur.nwyjnkjguowxnqbnwyjrcnmcrvjte”

“Rg.jj.!”nRnvpcvpcj.e

“McrvrguonmutjtnucjnmqgwrgpuooxnyrglrglnpkqgnwyuwnqgjnkqrgwenUnvugnrt
tptkjmwj.nqbnunmcrvjnvqgwytnkjcyuktnubwjcnrwnyutnzjjgnmqvvrwwj.enYrt
orgjgnqcnmoqwyjtnucjnjauvrgj.,nug.nzcqhgrtyntwurgtn.rtmqsjcj.npkqgnwyjve
Ucjnwyjxnzoqq.ntwurgt,nqcnvp.ntwurgt,nqcncptwntwurgt,nqcnbcprwntwurgt,
qcnhyuwnucjnwyjx?nWyuwnrtnunipjtwrqgnhyrmynyutnkpddoj.nvugxnugnjakjcw,
ug.nhyx?nZjmuptjnwyjcjnhutngqncjoruzojnwjtwenGqhnhjnyusjnwyjnTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt’nwjtw,nug.nwyjcjnhroongqnoqgljcnzjnugxn.rbbrmpowxe”

Yrtnjxjtnburcoxnlorwwjcj.nutnyjntkqfj,nug.nyjnkpwnyrtnyug.nqsjcnyrt
yjucwnug.nzqhj.nutnrbnwqntqvjnukkoup.rglnmcqh.nmqg pcj.npknzxnyrt
rvulrguwrqge

“Xqpnucjnwqnzjnmqglcuwpouwj.,”nRncjvucfj.,nmqgtr.jcuzoxntpckcrtj.nuwnyrt
jgwyptrutve

“WyjcjnhutnwyjnmutjnqbnSqgnZrtmyqbbnuwnBcugfbqcwnoutwnxjucenYjnhqpo.
mjcwurgoxnyusjnzjjgnypglnyu.nwyrtnwjtwnzjjgnrgnjartwjgmjenWyjgnwyjcjnhut
VutqgnqbnZcu.bqc.,nug.nwyjngqwqcrqptnVpoojc,nug.nOjbjscjnqbnVqgwkjoorjc,
ug.nTuvtqgnqbnGjhnQcojugtenRnmqpo.nguvjnuntmqcjnqbnmutjtnrgnhyrmynrw
hqpo.nyusjnzjjgn.jmrtrsje”

“Xqpntjjvnwqnzjnunhuofrglnmuojg.ucnqbnmcrvj,”ntur.nTwuvbqc.nhrwynu
ouplyen“XqpnvrlywntwucwnunkukjcnqgnwyqtjnorgjtenMuoonrwnwyjn‘KqormjnGjht
qbnwyjnKutwe’”

“Sjcxnrgwjcjtwrglncju.rglnrwnvrlywnzjnvu.j,nwqq,”ncjvucfj.nTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt,ntwrmfrglnuntvuoonkrjmjnqbnkoutwjcnqsjcnwyjnkcrmfnqgnyrtnbrgljce
“Rnyusjnwqnzjnmucjbpo,”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nwpcgrglnwqnvjnhrwynuntvroj,n“bqcnR
.uzzojnhrwynkqrtqgtnunlqq.n.juoe”nYjnyjo.nqpwnyrtnyug.nutnyjntkqfj,nug.
Rngqwrmj.nwyuwnrwnhutnuoonvqwwoj.nqsjcnhrwyntrvroucnkrjmjtnqbnkoutwjc,
ug.n.rtmqoqpcj.nhrwyntwcqglnumr.te

“Hjnmuvjnyjcjnqgnzptrgjtt,”ntur.nTwuvbqc.,ntrwwrgln.qhgnqgnunyrly
wycjj-ojllj.ntwqqo,nug.nkptyrglnugqwyjcnqgjnrgnvxn.rcjmwrqgnhrwy
yrtnbqqwen“Vxnbcrjg.nyjcjnhugwtnwqnwufjn.rllrglt,nug.nutnxqpnhjcj
mqvkourgrglnwyuwnxqpnmqpo.nljwngqnqgjnwqnlqnyuosjtnhrwynxqp,nRnwyqplyw
wyuwnRnyu.nzjwwjcnzcrglnxqpnwqljwyjce”

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtntjjvj.n.jorlywj.nuwnwyjnr.junqbntyucrglnyrtncqqvtnhrwy
vjen“RnyusjnvxnjxjnqgnuntprwjnrgnZufjcnTwcjjw,”nyjntur.,n“hyrmynhqpo.
tprwnptn.qhgnwqnwyjnlcqpg.enXqpn.qg’wnvrg.nwyjntvjoonqbntwcqglnwqzummq,
Rnyqkj?”

“Rnuohuxtntvqfjn‘tyrk’t’nvxtjob,”nRnugthjcj.e

“Wyuw’tnlqq.njgqplyenRnljgjcuooxnyusjnmyjvrmuotnuzqpw,nug.nqmmutrqguoox
.qnjakjcrvjgwtenHqpo.nwyuwnuggqxnxqp?”

“Zxngqnvjugte”

“Ojwnvjntjj--hyuwnucjnvxnqwyjcntyqcwmqvrgltenRnljwnrgnwyjn.pvktnuw
wrvjt,nug.n.qg’wnqkjgnvxnvqpwynbqcn.uxtnqgnjg.enXqpnvptwngqwnwyrgfnRnuv
tpofxnhyjgnRn.qnwyuwen ptwnojwnvjnuoqgj,nug.nR’oontqqgnzjncrlywenHyuw
yusjnxqpnwqnmqgbjttngqh?nRw’tn ptwnutnhjoonbqcnwhqnbjooqhtnwqnfgqhnwyj
hqctwnqbnqgjnugqwyjcnzjbqcjnwyjxnzjlrgnwqnorsjnwqljwyjce”

Rnouplyj.nuwnwyrtnmcqtt-jauvrguwrqgen“Rnfjjknunzpoonkpk,”nRntur.,n“ug.
Rnqz jmwnwqncqhtnzjmuptjnvxngjcsjtnucjntyufjg,nug.nRnljwnpknuwnuoontqcwt
qbnpglq.oxnyqpct,nug.nRnuvnjawcjvjoxnoudxenRnyusjnugqwyjcntjwnqbnsrmjt
hyjgnR’vnhjoo,nzpwnwyqtjnucjnwyjnkcrgmrkuonqgjtnuwnkcjtjgwe”

“.qnxqpnrgmop.jnsrqorg-kouxrglnrgnxqpcnmuwjlqcxnqbncqht?”nyjnutfj.,
ugarqptoxe

“Rwn.jkjg.tnqgnwyjnkouxjc,”nRnugthjcj.en“Unhjoo-kouxj.nsrqorgnrtnunwcjuw
bqcnwyjnlq.t--unzu.ox-kouxj.nqgj----”

“Qy,nwyuw’tnuooncrlyw,”nyjnmcrj.,nhrwynunvjccxnouplyen“Rnwyrgfnhjnvux
mqgtr.jcnwyjnwyrglnutntjwwoj.--wyuwnrt,nrbnwyjncqqvtnucjnulcjjuzojnwq
xqpe”

“Hyjgntyuoonhjntjjnwyjv?”

“Muoonbqcnvjnyjcjnuwngqqgnwq-vqccqh,nug.nhj’oonlqnwqljwyjcnug.ntjwwoj
jsjcxwyrgl,”nyjnugthjcj.e

“Uooncrlyw--gqqgnjaumwox,”ntur.nR,ntyufrglnyrtnyug.e

Hjnojbwnyrvnhqcfrglnuvqglnyrtnmyjvrmuot,nug.nhjnhuofj.nwqljwyjcnwqhuc.t
vxnyqwjoe

“Zxnwyjnhux,”nRnutfj.ntp..jgox,ntwqkkrglnug.nwpcgrglnpkqgnTwuvbqc.,n“yqh
wyjn.jpmjn.r.nyjnfgqhnwyuwnRnyu.nmqvjnbcqvnUblyugrtwug?”

Vxnmqvkugrqgntvroj.nugnjgrlvuwrmuontvrojen“Wyuw’tn ptwnyrtnorwwoj
kjmporucrwx,”nyjntur.en“Unlqq.nvugxnkjqkojnyusjnhugwj.nwqnfgqhnyqhnyj
brg.tnwyrgltnqpwe”

“Qy!nunvxtwjcxnrtnrw?”nRnmcrj.,ncpzzrglnvxnyug.ten“Wyrtnrtnsjcxnkripugwe
Rnuvnvpmynqzorlj.nwqnxqpnbqcnzcrglrglnptnwqljwyjcen‘Wyjnkcqkjcntwp.xnqb
vugfrg.nrtnvug,’nxqpnfgqhe”

“Xqpnvptwntwp.xnyrv,nwyjg,”nTwuvbqc.ntur.,nutnyjnzu.jnvjnlqq.-zxje
“Xqp’oonbrg.nyrvnunfgqwwxnkcqzojv,nwyqplyenR’oonhuljcnyjnojucgtnvqcj
uzqpwnxqpnwyugnxqpnuzqpwnyrvenLqq.-zxje”

“Lqq.-zxj,”nRnugthjcj.,nug.ntwcqooj.nqgnwqnvxnyqwjo,nmqgtr.jcuzox
rgwjcjtwj.nrgnvxngjhnumipurgwugmje




MYUKWJCnRRenWYJnTMRJGMJnQBn.J.PMWRQGe


HJnvjwngjawn.uxnutnyjnyu.nuccuglj.,nug.nrgtkjmwj.nwyjncqqvtnuwnGqen221Z,
[5]nZufjcnTwcjjw,nqbnhyrmynyjnyu.ntkqfjgnuwnqpcnvjjwrglenWyjx
mqgtrtwj.nqbnunmqpkojnqbnmqvbqcwuzojnzj.-cqqvtnug.nuntrglojnouclj
urcxntrwwrgl-cqqv,nmyjjcbpooxnbpcgrtyj.,nug.nroopvrguwj.nzxnwhqnzcqu.
hrg.qhtenTqn.jtrcuzojnrgnjsjcxnhuxnhjcjnwyjnukucwvjgwt,nug.ntqnvq.jcuwj
.r.nwyjnwjcvtntjjvnhyjgn.rsr.j.nzjwhjjgnpt,nwyuwnwyjnzuclurgnhut
mqgmop.j.npkqgnwyjntkqw,nug.nhjnuwnqgmjnjgwjcj.nrgwqnkqttjttrqge
WyuwnsjcxnjsjgrglnRnvqsj.nvxnwyrgltncqpg.nbcqvnwyjnyqwjo,nug.nqgnwyj
bqooqhrglnvqcgrglnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnbqooqhj.nvjnhrwyntjsjcuonzqajtnug.
kqcwvugwjuptenBqcnun.uxnqcnwhqnhjnhjcjnzptroxnjvkoqxj.nrgnpgkumfrglnug.
ouxrglnqpwnqpcnkcqkjcwxnwqnwyjnzjtwnu.sugwuljenWyuwn.qgj,nhj
lcu.puooxnzjlugnwqntjwwojn.qhgnug.nwqnummqvvq.uwjnqpctjosjtnwqnqpcngjh
tpccqpg.rglte

Yqovjtnhutnmjcwurgoxngqwnun.rbbrmpownvugnwqnorsjnhrwyenYjnhutniprjw
rgnyrtnhuxt,nug.nyrtnyuzrwtnhjcjncjlpoucenRwnhutncucjnbqcnyrvnwqnzj
pknubwjcnwjgnuwngrlyw,nug.nyjnyu.nrgsucruzoxnzcjufbutwj.nug.nlqgjnqpw
zjbqcjnRncqtjnrgnwyjnvqcgrglenTqvjwrvjtnyjntkjgwnyrtn.uxnuwnwyjnmyjvrmuo
ouzqcuwqcx,ntqvjwrvjtnrgnwyjn.rttjmwrgl-cqqvt,nug.nqmmutrqguooxnrgnoqgl
huoft,nhyrmynukkjucj.nwqnwufjnyrvnrgwqnwyjnoqhjtwnkqcwrqgtnqbnwyjnMrwxe
Gqwyrglnmqpo.njamjj.nyrtnjgjclxnhyjgnwyjnhqcfrglnbrwnhutnpkqgnyrv;nzpw
gqhnug.nulurgnuncjumwrqgnhqpo.ntjrdjnyrv,nug.nbqcn.uxtnqgnjg.nyjnhqpo.
orjnpkqgnwyjntqbunrgnwyjntrwwrgl-cqqv,nyuc.oxnpwwjcrglnunhqc.nqcnvqsrgl
unvptmojnbcqvnvqcgrglnwqngrlywenQgnwyjtjnqmmutrqgtnRnyusjngqwrmj.ntpmy
un.cjuvx,nsumugwnjakcjttrqgnrgnyrtnjxjt,nwyuwnRnvrlywnyusjntptkjmwj.nyrv
qbnzjrglnu..rmwj.nwqnwyjnptjnqbntqvjngucmqwrm,nyu.ngqwnwyjnwjvkjcugmj
ug.nmojugorgjttnqbnyrtnhyqojnorbjnbqczr..jgntpmynungqwrqge

Utnwyjnhjjftnhjgwnzx,nvxnrgwjcjtwnrgnyrvnug.nvxnmpcrqtrwxnutnwqnyrt
urvtnrgnorbj,nlcu.puooxn.jjkjgj.nug.nrgmcjutj.enYrtnsjcxnkjctqgnug.
ukkjucugmjnhjcjntpmynutnwqntwcrfjnwyjnuwwjgwrqgnqbnwyjnvqtwnmutpuo
qztjcsjcenRgnyjrlywnyjnhutncuwyjcnqsjcntranbjjw,nug.ntqnjamjttrsjox
ojugnwyuwnyjntjjvj.nwqnzjnmqgtr.jcuzoxnwuoojcenYrtnjxjtnhjcjntyucknug.
krjcmrgl,ntusjn.pcrglnwyqtjnrgwjcsuotnqbnwqckqcnwqnhyrmynRnyusjnuoop.j.;
ug.nyrtnwyrg,nyuhf-orfjngqtjnlusjnyrtnhyqojnjakcjttrqgnugnurcnqb
uojcwgjttnug.n.jmrtrqgenYrtnmyrg,nwqq,nyu.nwyjnkcqvrgjgmjnug.ntipucjgjtt
hyrmynvucfnwyjnvugnqbn.jwjcvrguwrqgenYrtnyug.tnhjcjnrgsucruzox
zoqwwj.nhrwynrgfnug.ntwurgj.nhrwynmyjvrmuot,nxjwnyjnhutnkqttjttj.nqb
jawcuqc.rgucxn.jormumxnqbnwqpmy,nutnRnbcjipjgwoxnyu.nqmmutrqgnwqnqztjcsj
hyjgnRnhuwmyj.nyrvnvugrkpouwrglnyrtnbculrojnkyroqtqkyrmuonrgtwcpvjgwte

Wyjncju.jcnvuxntjwnvjn.qhgnutnunyqkjojttnzptxzq.x,nhyjgnRnmqgbjttnyqh
vpmynwyrtnvugntwrvpouwj.nvxnmpcrqtrwx,nug.nyqhnqbwjgnRnjg.jusqpcj.
wqnzcjufnwycqplynwyjncjwrmjgmjnhyrmynyjntyqhj.nqgnuoonwyuwnmqgmjcgj.
yrvtjobenZjbqcjnkcqgqpgmrgln p.lvjgw,nyqhjsjc,nzjnrwncjvjvzjcj.,nyqh
qz jmwojttnhutnvxnorbj,nug.nyqhnorwwojnwyjcjnhutnwqnjgluljnvxnuwwjgwrqge
Vxnyjuowynbqczu.jnvjnbcqvnsjgwpcrglnqpwnpgojttnwyjnhjuwyjcnhut
jamjkwrqguooxnljgruo,nug.nRnyu.ngqnbcrjg.tnhyqnhqpo.nmuoonpkqgnvjnug.
zcjufnwyjnvqgqwqgxnqbnvxn.uroxnjartwjgmjenPg.jcnwyjtjnmrcmpvtwugmjt,nR
juljcoxnyuroj.nwyjnorwwojnvxtwjcxnhyrmynypglnucqpg.nvxnmqvkugrqg,nug.
tkjgwnvpmynqbnvxnwrvjnrgnjg.jusqpcrglnwqnpgcusjonrwe

Yjnhutngqwntwp.xrglnvj.rmrgjenYjnyu.nyrvtjob,nrgncjkoxnwqnunipjtwrqg,
mqgbrcvj.nTwuvbqc.’tnqkrgrqgnpkqgnwyuwnkqrgwenGjrwyjcn.r.nyjnukkjucnwq
yusjnkpctpj.nugxnmqpctjnqbncju.rglnhyrmynvrlywnbrwnyrvnbqcnun.jlcjjnrg
tmrjgmjnqcnugxnqwyjcncjmqlgrdj.nkqcwuonhyrmynhqpo.nlrsjnyrvnugnjgwcugmj
rgwqnwyjnojucgj.nhqco.enXjwnyrtndjuonbqcnmjcwurgntwp.rjtnhutncjvucfuzoj,
ug.nhrwyrgnjmmjgwcrmnorvrwtnyrtnfgqhoj.ljnhutntqnjawcuqc.rgucroxnuvkoj
ug.nvrgpwjnwyuwnyrtnqztjcsuwrqgtnyusjnburcoxnutwqpg.j.nvjenTpcjoxngqnvug
hqpo.nhqcfntqnyuc.nqcnuwwurgntpmynkcjmrtjnrgbqcvuwrqgnpgojttnyjnyu.ntqvj
.jbrgrwjnjg.nrgnsrjhen.jtpowqcxncju.jctnucjntjo.qvncjvucfuzojnbqcnwyj
jaumwgjttnqbnwyjrcnojucgrglenGqnvugnzpc.jgtnyrtnvrg.nhrwyntvuoonvuwwjct
pgojttnyjnyutntqvjnsjcxnlqq.ncjutqgnbqcn.qrglntqe

Yrtnrlgqcugmjnhutnutncjvucfuzojnutnyrtnfgqhoj.ljenQbnmqgwjvkqcucx
orwjcuwpcj,nkyroqtqkyxnug.nkqorwrmtnyjnukkjucj.nwqnfgqhngjawnwqngqwyrgle
PkqgnvxnipqwrglnWyqvutnMucoxoj,nyjnrgiprcj.nrgnwyjngursjtwnhuxnhyqnyj
vrlywnzjnug.nhyuwnyjnyu.n.qgjenVxntpckcrtjncjumyj.nunmorvua,nyqhjsjc,
hyjgnRnbqpg.nrgmr.jgwuooxnwyuwnyjnhutnrlgqcugwnqbnwyjnMqkjcgrmugnWyjqcx
ug.nqbnwyjnmqvkqtrwrqgnqbnwyjnTqoucnTxtwjvenWyuwnugxnmrsrordj.nypvug
zjrglnrgnwyrtngrgjwjjgwynmjgwpcxntyqpo.ngqwnzjnuhucjnwyuwnwyjnjucwy
wcusjooj.ncqpg.nwyjntpgnukkjucj.nwqnzjnwqnvjntpmynugnjawcuqc.rgucxnbumw
wyuwnRnmqpo.nyuc.oxncjuordjnrwe

“Xqpnukkjucnwqnzjnutwqgrtyj.,”nyjntur.,ntvrorglnuwnvxnjakcjttrqgnqb
tpckcrtjen“GqhnwyuwnRn.qnfgqhnrwnRntyuoon.qnvxnzjtwnwqnbqcljwnrwe”

“Wqnbqcljwnrw!”

“Xqpntjj,”nyjnjakourgj.,n“Rnmqgtr.jcnwyuwnunvug’tnzcurgnqcrlrguooxnrt
orfjnunorwwojnjvkwxnuwwrm,nug.nxqpnyusjnwqntwqmfnrwnhrwyntpmynbpcgrwpcj
utnxqpnmyqqtjenUnbqqonwufjtnrgnuoonwyjnopvzjcnqbnjsjcxntqcwnwyuwnyj
mqvjtnumcqtt,ntqnwyuwnwyjnfgqhoj.ljnhyrmynvrlywnzjnptjbponwqnyrvnljwt
mcqh.j.nqpw,nqcnuwnzjtwnrtn pvzoj.npknhrwynunoqwnqbnqwyjcnwyrgltntqnwyuw
yjnyutnun.rbbrmpowxnrgnouxrglnyrtnyug.tnpkqgnrwenGqhnwyjntfrobponhqcfvug
rtnsjcxnmucjbponrg.jj.nutnwqnhyuwnyjnwufjtnrgwqnyrtnzcurg-uwwrmenYjnhroo
yusjngqwyrglnzpwnwyjnwqqotnhyrmynvuxnyjoknyrvnrgn.qrglnyrtnhqcf,nzpwnqb
wyjtjnyjnyutnunoucljnuttqcwvjgw,nug.nuoonrgnwyjnvqtwnkjcbjmwnqc.jcenRw
rtnunvrtwufjnwqnwyrgfnwyuwnwyuwnorwwojncqqvnyutnjoutwrmnhuootnug.nmug
.rtwjg.nwqnugxnjawjgwen.jkjg.npkqgnrwnwyjcjnmqvjtnunwrvjnhyjgnbqcnjsjcx
u..rwrqgnqbnfgqhoj.ljnxqpnbqcljwntqvjwyrglnwyuwnxqpnfgjhnzjbqcjenRwnrt
qbnwyjnyrlyjtwnrvkqcwugmj,nwyjcjbqcj,ngqwnwqnyusjnptjojttnbumwtnjozqhrgl
qpwnwyjnptjbponqgjte”

“ZpwnwyjnTqoucnTxtwjv!”nRnkcqwjtwj.e

“Hyuwnwyjn.jpmjnrtnrwnwqnvj?”nyjnrgwjccpkwj.nrvkuwrjgwox;n“xqpntux
wyuwnhjnlqncqpg.nwyjntpgenRbnhjnhjgwncqpg.nwyjnvqqgnrwnhqpo.ngqwnvufjnu
kjggxhqcwynqbn.rbbjcjgmjnwqnvjnqcnwqnvxnhqcfe”

Rnhutnqgnwyjnkqrgwnqbnutfrglnyrvnhyuwnwyuwnhqcfnvrlywnzj,nzpwntqvjwyrgl
rgnyrtnvuggjcntyqhj.nvjnwyuwnwyjnipjtwrqgnhqpo.nzjnugnpghjomqvjnqgjenR
kqg.jcj.nqsjcnqpcntyqcwnmqgsjctuwrqg,nyqhjsjc,nug.njg.jusqpcj.nwqn.cuh
vxn.j.pmwrqgtnbcqvnrwenYjntur.nwyuwnyjnhqpo.numiprcjngqnfgqhoj.ljnhyrmy
.r.ngqwnzjucnpkqgnyrtnqz jmwenWyjcjbqcjnuoonwyjnfgqhoj.ljnhyrmynyj
kqttjttj.nhutntpmynutnhqpo.nzjnptjbponwqnyrvenRnjgpvjcuwj.nrgnvxnqhg
vrg.nuoonwyjnsucrqptnkqrgwtnpkqgnhyrmynyjnyu.ntyqhgnvjnwyuwnyjnhut
jamjkwrqguooxnhjoo-rgbqcvj.enRnjsjgnwqqfnunkjgmronug.n qwwj.nwyjvn.qhge
Rnmqpo.ngqwnyjokntvrorglnuwnwyjn.qmpvjgwnhyjgnRnyu.nmqvkojwj.nrwenRwncug
rgnwyrtnhux--


TYJCOQMFnYQOVJT--yrtnorvrwte

nn1enFgqhoj.ljnqbnOrwjcuwpcje--Groe
nn2ennnnnnnnnnnnnnKyroqtqkyxe--Groe
nn3ennnnnnnnnnnnnnUtwcqgqvxe--Groe
nn4ennnnnnnnnnnnnnKqorwrmte--Bjjzoje
nn5ennnnnnnnnnnnnnZqwugxe--SucruzojennHjoonpknrgnzjoou.qggu,
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnqkrpv,nug.nkqrtqgtnljgjcuooxe
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnFgqhtngqwyrglnqbnkcumwrmuonluc.jgrgle
nn6ennnnnnnnnnnnnnLjqoqlxe--Kcumwrmuo,nzpwnorvrwj.e
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnWjootnuwnunlougmjn.rbbjcjgwntqrot
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnbcqvnjumynqwyjcennUbwjcnhuoftnyut
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnntyqhgnvjntkoutyjtnpkqgnyrtnwcqptjct,
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnug.nwqo.nvjnzxnwyjrcnmqoqpcnug.
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnmqgtrtwjgmjnrgnhyuwnkucwnqbnOqg.qg
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnyjnyu.ncjmjrsj.nwyjve
nn7ennnnnnnnnnnnnnMyjvrtwcxe--Kcqbqpg.e
nn8ennnnnnnnnnnnnnUguwqvxe--Ummpcuwj,nzpwnpgtxtwjvuwrme
nn9ennnnnnnnnnnnnnTjgtuwrqguonOrwjcuwpcje--RvvjgtjennYjnukkjuct
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnwqnfgqhnjsjcxn.jwuronqbnjsjcxnyqccqc
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnkjckjwcuwj.nrgnwyjnmjgwpcxe
nn10enKouxtnwyjnsrqorgnhjooe
nn11enRtnugnjakjcwntrglojtwrmfnkouxjc,nzqajc,nug.nthqc.tvuge
nn12enYutnunlqq.nkcumwrmuonfgqhoj.ljnqbnZcrwrtynouhe


HyjgnRnyu.nlqwntqnbucnrgnvxnortwnRnwycjhnrwnrgwqnwyjnbrcjnrgn.jtkurce
“RbnRnmugnqgoxnbrg.nhyuwnwyjnbjooqhnrtn.crsrglnuwnzxncjmqgmrorglnuoo
wyjtjnummqvkortyvjgwt,nug.n.rtmqsjcrglnunmuoorglnhyrmyngjj.tnwyjvnuoo,”
nRntur.nwqnvxtjob,n“Rnvuxnutnhjoonlrsjnpknwyjnuwwjvkwnuwnqgmje”

RntjjnwyuwnRnyusjnuoop.j.nuzqsjnwqnyrtnkqhjctnpkqgnwyjnsrqorgenWyjtj
hjcjnsjcxncjvucfuzoj,nzpwnutnjmmjgwcrmnutnuoonyrtnqwyjcnummqvkortyvjgwte
Wyuwnyjnmqpo.nkouxnkrjmjt,nug.n.rbbrmpownkrjmjt,nRnfgjhnhjoo,nzjmuptj
uwnvxncjipjtwnyjnyutnkouxj.nvjntqvjnqbnVjg.jottqyg’tnOrj.jc,nug.nqwyjc
busqpcrwjtenHyjgnojbwnwqnyrvtjob,nyqhjsjc,nyjnhqpo.ntjo.qvnkcq.pmjnugx
vptrmnqcnuwwjvkwnugxncjmqlgrdj.nurcenOjugrglnzumfnrgnyrtnucv-myurcnqb
ugnjsjgrgl,nyjnhqpo.nmoqtjnyrtnjxjtnug.ntmcukjnmucjojttoxnuwnwyjnbr..oj
hyrmynhutnwycqhgnumcqttnyrtnfgjjenTqvjwrvjtnwyjnmyqc.tnhjcjntqgqcqptnug.
vjougmyqoxenQmmutrqguooxnwyjxnhjcjnbugwutwrmnug.nmyjjcbpoenMojucoxnwyjx
cjbojmwj.nwyjnwyqplywtnhyrmynkqttjttj.nyrv,nzpwnhyjwyjcnwyjnvptrmnur.j.
wyqtjnwyqplywt,nqcnhyjwyjcnwyjnkouxrglnhutntrvkoxnwyjncjtpownqbnunhyrv
qcnbugmxnhutnvqcjnwyugnRnmqpo.n.jwjcvrgjenRnvrlywnyusjncjzjooj.nulurgtw
wyjtjnjautkjcuwrglntqoqtnyu.nrwngqwnzjjgnwyuwnyjnptpuooxnwjcvrguwj.nwyjv
zxnkouxrglnrgniprmfntpmmjttrqgnunhyqojntjcrjtnqbnvxnbusqpcrwjnurctnutnu
torlywnmqvkjgtuwrqgnbqcnwyjnwcruonpkqgnvxnkuwrjgmje

.pcrglnwyjnbrctwnhjjfnqcntqnhjnyu.ngqnmuoojct,nug.nRnyu.nzjlpgnwqnwyrgf
wyuwnvxnmqvkugrqgnhutnutnbcrjg.ojttnunvugnutnRnhutnvxtjobenKcjtjgwox,
yqhjsjc,nRnbqpg.nwyuwnyjnyu.nvugxnumipurgwugmjt,nug.nwyqtjnrgnwyjnvqtw
.rbbjcjgwnmouttjtnqbntqmrjwxenWyjcjnhutnqgjnorwwojntuooqhncuw-bumj.,
.ucf-jxj.nbjooqhnhyqnhutnrgwcq.pmj.nwqnvjnutnVcenOjtwcu.j,nug.nhyqnmuvj
wycjjnqcnbqpcnwrvjtnrgnuntrglojnhjjfenQgjnvqcgrglnunxqpglnlrconmuooj.,
butyrqguzoxn.cjttj.,nug.ntwuxj.nbqcnyuobnugnyqpcnqcnvqcjenWyjntuvj
ubwjcgqqgnzcqplywnunlcjx-yju.j.,ntjj.xnsrtrwqc,noqqfrglnorfjnun jh
kj.ouc,nhyqnukkjucj.nwqnvjnwqnzjnvpmynjamrwj.,nug.nhyqnhutnmoqtjox
bqooqhj.nzxnuntork-tyq.njo.jcoxnhqvugenQgnugqwyjcnqmmutrqgnugnqo.
hyrwj-yurcj.nljgwojvugnyu.nugnrgwjcsrjhnhrwynvxnmqvkugrqg;nug.nqg
ugqwyjcnuncurohuxnkqcwjcnrgnyrtnsjosjwjjgnpgrbqcvenHyjgnugxnqbnwyjtj
gqg.jtmcrkwnrg.rsr.puotnkpwnrgnugnukkjucugmj,nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnptj.nwq
zjlnbqcnwyjnptjnqbnwyjntrwwrgl-cqqv,nug.nRnhqpo.ncjwrcjnwqnvxnzj.-cqqve
Yjnuohuxtnukqoqlrdj.nwqnvjnbqcnkpwwrglnvjnwqnwyrtnrgmqgsjgrjgmjen“Rnyusj
wqnptjnwyrtncqqvnutnunkoumjnqbnzptrgjtt,”nyjntur.,n“ug.nwyjtjnkjqkoj
ucjnvxnmorjgwte”nUlurgnRnyu.nugnqkkqcwpgrwxnqbnutfrglnyrvnunkqrgwnzougf
ipjtwrqg,nug.nulurgnvxn.jormumxnkcjsjgwj.nvjnbcqvnbqcmrglnugqwyjcnvugnwq
mqgbr.jnrgnvjenRnrvulrgj.nuwnwyjnwrvjnwyuwnyjnyu.ntqvjntwcqglncjutqgnbqc
gqwnuoop.rglnwqnrw,nzpwnyjntqqgn.rtkjooj.nwyjnr.junzxnmqvrglncqpg.nwq
wyjntpz jmwnqbnyrtnqhgnummqc.e

Rwnhutnpkqgnwyjn4wynqbnVucmy,nutnRnyusjnlqq.ncjutqgnwqncjvjvzjc,nwyuwnR
cqtjntqvjhyuwnjucorjcnwyugnptpuo,nug.nbqpg.nwyuwnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnyu.ngqw
xjwnbrgrtyj.nyrtnzcjufbutwenWyjnoug.ou.xnyu.nzjmqvjntqnummptwqvj.nwqnvx
ouwjnyuzrwtnwyuwnvxnkoumjnyu.ngqwnzjjgnour.ngqcnvxnmqbbjjnkcjkucj.enHrwy
wyjnpgcjutqguzojnkjwpougmjnqbnvugfrg.nRncuglnwyjnzjoonug.nlusjnunmpcw
rgwrvuwrqgnwyuwnRnhutncju.xenWyjgnRnkrmfj.npknunvuludrgjnbcqvnwyjnwuzoj
ug.nuwwjvkwj.nwqnhyrojnuhuxnwyjnwrvjnhrwynrw,nhyrojnvxnmqvkugrqgnvpgmyj.
trojgwoxnuwnyrtnwqutwenQgjnqbnwyjnucwrmojtnyu.nunkjgmronvucfnuwnwyj
yju.rgl,nug.nRnguwpcuooxnzjlugnwqncpgnvxnjxjnwycqplynrwe

Rwtntqvjhyuwnuvzrwrqptnwrwojnhutn“WyjnZqqfnqbnOrbj,”nug.nrwnuwwjvkwj.nwq
tyqhnyqhnvpmynugnqztjcsugwnvugnvrlywnojucgnzxnugnummpcuwjnug.ntxtwjvuwrm
jauvrguwrqgnqbnuoonwyuwnmuvjnrgnyrtnhuxenRwntwcpmfnvjnutnzjrglnu
cjvucfuzojnvrawpcjnqbntycjh.gjttnug.nqbnuztpc.rwxenWyjncjutqgrglnhut
moqtjnug.nrgwjgtj,nzpwnwyjn.j.pmwrqgtnukkjucj.nwqnvjnwqnzjnbuc-bjwmyj.
ug.njaulljcuwj.enWyjnhcrwjcnmourvj.nzxnunvqvjgwucxnjakcjttrqg,nunwhrwmy
qbnunvptmojnqcnunlougmjnqbnugnjxj,nwqnbuwyqvnunvug’tnrgvqtwnwyqplywte
.jmjrw,nummqc.rglnwqnyrv,nhutnugnrvkqttrzrorwxnrgnwyjnmutjnqbnqgj
wcurgj.nwqnqztjcsuwrqgnug.nuguoxtrtenYrtnmqgmoptrqgtnhjcjnutnrgbuoorzoj
utntqnvugxnkcqkqtrwrqgtnqbnJpmor.enTqntwucworglnhqpo.nyrtncjtpowtnukkjuc
wqnwyjnpgrgrwruwj.nwyuwnpgwronwyjxnojucgj.nwyjnkcqmjttjtnzxnhyrmynyjnyu.
uccrsj.nuwnwyjvnwyjxnvrlywnhjoonmqgtr.jcnyrvnutnungjmcqvugmjce

“Bcqvnun.cqknqbnhuwjc,”ntur.nwyjnhcrwjc,n“unoqlrmrugnmqpo.nrgbjcnwyj
kqttrzrorwxnqbnugnUwougwrmnqcnunGrulucunhrwyqpwnyusrglntjjgnqcnyjuc.nqb
qgjnqcnwyjnqwyjcenTqnuoonorbjnrtnunlcjuwnmyurg,nwyjnguwpcjnqbnhyrmynrt
fgqhgnhyjgjsjcnhjnucjntyqhgnuntrglojnorgfnqbnrwenOrfjnuoonqwyjcnucwt,
wyjnTmrjgmjnqbn.j.pmwrqgnug.nUguoxtrtnrtnqgjnhyrmynmugnqgoxnzjnumiprcj.
zxnoqglnug.nkuwrjgwntwp.xngqcnrtnorbjnoqglnjgqplynwqnuooqhnugxnvqcwuo
wqnuwwurgnwyjnyrlyjtwnkqttrzojnkjcbjmwrqgnrgnrwenZjbqcjnwpcgrglnwq
wyqtjnvqcuonug.nvjgwuonutkjmwtnqbnwyjnvuwwjcnhyrmynkcjtjgwnwyjnlcjuwjtw
.rbbrmpowrjt,nojwnwyjnjgiprcjcnzjlrgnzxnvutwjcrglnvqcjnjojvjgwucx
kcqzojvtenOjwnyrv,nqgnvjjwrglnunbjooqh-vqcwuo,nojucgnuwnunlougmjnwq
.rtwrglprtynwyjnyrtwqcxnqbnwyjnvug,nug.nwyjnwcu.jnqcnkcqbjttrqgnwq
hyrmynyjnzjoqgltenKpjcrojnutntpmynugnjajcmrtjnvuxntjjv,nrwntyuckjgtnwyj
bumpowrjtnqbnqztjcsuwrqg,nug.nwjumyjtnqgjnhyjcjnwqnoqqfnug.nhyuwnwqnoqqf
bqcenZxnunvug’tnbrgljcngurot,nzxnyrtnmquw-tojjsj,nzxnyrtnzqqw,nzxnyrt
wcqptjcnfgjjt,nzxnwyjnmuooqtrwrjtnqbnyrtnbqcjbrgljcnug.nwypvz,nzxnyrt
jakcjttrqg,nzxnyrtntyrcwnmpbbt--zxnjumynqbnwyjtjnwyrgltnunvug’tnmuoorgl
rtnkourgoxncjsjuoj.enWyuwnuoonpgrwj.ntyqpo.nburonwqnjgorlywjgnwyj
mqvkjwjgwnjgiprcjcnrgnugxnmutjnrtnuovqtwnrgmqgmjrsuzoje”

“Hyuwnrgjbbuzojnwhu..oj!”nRnmcrj.,ntoukkrglnwyjnvuludrgjn.qhgnqgnwyj
wuzoj,n“Rngjsjcncju.ntpmyncpzzrtynrgnvxnorbje”

“Hyuwnrtnrw?”nutfj.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjte

“Hyx,nwyrtnucwrmoj,”nRntur.,nkqrgwrglnuwnrwnhrwynvxnjllntkqqgnutnRntuw
.qhgnwqnvxnzcjufbutwen“Rntjjnwyuwnxqpnyusjncju.nrwntrgmjnxqpnyusjnvucfj.
rwenRn.qg’wn.jgxnwyuwnrwnrtntvucwoxnhcrwwjgenRwnrccrwuwjtnvjnwyqplyenRw
rtnjsr.jgwoxnwyjnwyjqcxnqbntqvjnucv-myurcnoqpgljcnhyqnjsqosjtnuoonwyjtj
gjuwnorwwojnkucu.qajtnrgnwyjntjmoptrqgnqbnyrtnqhgntwp.xenRwnrtngqw
kcumwrmuoenRntyqpo.norfjnwqntjjnyrvnmoukkj.n.qhgnrgnunwyrc.nmoutt
muccruljnqgnwyjnPg.jclcqpg.,nug.nutfj.nwqnlrsjnwyjnwcu.jtnqbnuoonyrt
bjooqh-wcusjoojctenRnhqpo.nouxnunwyqptug.nwqnqgjnulurgtwnyrve”

“Xqpnhqpo.noqtjnxqpcnvqgjx,”nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtncjvucfj.nmuovoxen“Utnbqc
wyjnucwrmojnRnhcqwjnrwnvxtjobe”

“Xqp!”

“Xjt,nRnyusjnunwpcgnzqwynbqcnqztjcsuwrqgnug.nbqcn.j.pmwrqgenWyj
wyjqcrjtnhyrmynRnyusjnjakcjttj.nwyjcj,nug.nhyrmynukkjucnwqnxqpnwqnzjntq
myrvjcrmuonucjncjuooxnjawcjvjoxnkcumwrmuo--tqnkcumwrmuonwyuwnRn.jkjg.
pkqgnwyjvnbqcnvxnzcju.nug.nmyjjtje”

“Ug.nyqh?”nRnutfj.nrgsqopgwucroxe

“Hjoo,nRnyusjnunwcu.jnqbnvxnqhgenRntpkkqtjnRnuvnwyjnqgoxnqgjnrgnwyj
hqco.enR’vnunmqgtpowrgln.jwjmwrsj,nrbnxqpnmugnpg.jctwug.nhyuwnwyuwnrte
YjcjnrgnOqg.qgnhjnyusjnoqwtnqbnLqsjcgvjgwn.jwjmwrsjtnug.noqwtnqbnkcrsuwj
qgjtenHyjgnwyjtjnbjooqhtnucjnuwnbupownwyjxnmqvjnwqnvj,nug.nRnvuguljnwq
kpwnwyjvnqgnwyjncrlywntmjgwenWyjxnouxnuoonwyjnjsr.jgmjnzjbqcjnvj,nug.nR
uvnljgjcuooxnuzoj,nzxnwyjnyjoknqbnvxnfgqhoj.ljnqbnwyjnyrtwqcxnqb
mcrvj,nwqntjwnwyjvntwcurlywenWyjcjnrtnuntwcqglnbuvroxncjtjvzougmjnuzqpw
vrt.jj.t,nug.nrbnxqpnyusjnuoonwyjn.jwurotnqbnunwyqptug.nuwnxqpcnbrgljc
jg.t,nrwnrtnq..nrbnxqpnmug’wnpgcusjonwyjnwyqptug.nug.nbrctwenOjtwcu.j
rtnunhjoo-fgqhgn.jwjmwrsjenYjnlqwnyrvtjobnrgwqnunbqlncjmjgwoxnqsjcnu
bqcljcxnmutj,nug.nwyuwnhutnhyuwnzcqplywnyrvnyjcje”

“Ug.nwyjtjnqwyjcnkjqkoj?”

“WyjxnucjnvqtwoxntjgwnqgnzxnkcrsuwjnrgiprcxnuljgmrjtenWyjxnucj
uoonkjqkojnhyqnucjnrgnwcqpzojnuzqpwntqvjwyrgl,nug.nhugwnunorwwoj
jgorlywjgrglenRnortwjgnwqnwyjrcntwqcx,nwyjxnortwjgnwqnvxnmqvvjgwt,nug.
wyjgnRnkqmfjwnvxnbjje”

“Zpwn.qnxqpnvjugnwqntux,”nRntur.,n“wyuwnhrwyqpwnojusrglnxqpcncqqvnxqp
mugnpgcusjontqvjnfgqwnhyrmynqwyjcnvjgnmugnvufjngqwyrglnqb,nuowyqplynwyjx
yusjntjjgnjsjcxn.jwuronbqcnwyjvtjosjt?”

“IprwjntqenRnyusjnunfrg.nqbnrgwprwrqgnwyuwnhuxenGqhnug.nulurgnunmutj
wpcgtnpknhyrmynrtnunorwwojnvqcjnmqvkojaenWyjgnRnyusjnwqnzptwojnuzqpwnug.
tjjnwyrgltnhrwynvxnqhgnjxjtenXqpntjjnRnyusjnunoqwnqbntkjmruonfgqhoj.lj
hyrmynRnukkoxnwqnwyjnkcqzojv,nug.nhyrmynbumrorwuwjtnvuwwjctnhqg.jcbpooxe
Wyqtjncpojtnqbn.j.pmwrqgnour.n.qhgnrgnwyuwnucwrmojnhyrmynucqptj.nxqpc
tmqcg,nucjnrgsuopuzojnwqnvjnrgnkcumwrmuonhqcfenQztjcsuwrqgnhrwynvjnrt
tjmqg.nguwpcjenXqpnukkjucj.nwqnzjntpckcrtj.nhyjgnRnwqo.nxqp,nqgnqpc
brctwnvjjwrgl,nwyuwnxqpnyu.nmqvjnbcqvnUblyugrtwuge”

“Xqpnhjcjnwqo.,ngqn.qpzwe”

“GqwyrglnqbnwyjntqcwenRn_fgjh_nxqpnmuvjnbcqvnUblyugrtwugenBcqvnoqgl
yuzrwnwyjnwcurgnqbnwyqplywtncugntqnthrbwoxnwycqplynvxnvrg.,nwyuwnR
uccrsj.nuwnwyjnmqgmoptrqgnhrwyqpwnzjrglnmqgtmrqptnqbnrgwjcvj.ruwjntwjkte
Wyjcjnhjcjntpmyntwjkt,nyqhjsjcenWyjnwcurgnqbncjutqgrglncug,n‘Yjcjnrtnu
ljgwojvugnqbnunvj.rmuonwxkj,nzpwnhrwynwyjnurcnqbnunvrorwucxnvugenMojucox
ugnucvxn.qmwqc,nwyjgenYjnyutn ptwnmqvjnbcqvnwyjnwcqkrmt,nbqcnyrtnbumjnrt
.ucf,nug.nwyuwnrtngqwnwyjnguwpcuonwrgwnqbnyrtntfrg,nbqcnyrtnhcrtwtnucj
burcenYjnyutnpg.jclqgjnyuc.tyrknug.ntrmfgjtt,nutnyrtnyulluc.nbumjntuxt
mojucoxenYrtnojbwnucvnyutnzjjgnrg pcj.enYjnyqo.tnrwnrgnuntwrbbnug.
pgguwpcuonvuggjcenHyjcjnrgnwyjnwcqkrmtnmqpo.nugnJglortynucvxn.qmwqcnyusj
tjjgnvpmynyuc.tyrknug.nlqwnyrtnucvnhqpg.j.?nMojucoxnrgnUblyugrtwuge’nWyj
hyqojnwcurgnqbnwyqplywn.r.ngqwnqmmpkxnuntjmqg.enRnwyjgncjvucfj.nwyuwnxqp
muvjnbcqvnUblyugrtwug,nug.nxqpnhjcjnutwqgrtyj.e”

“Rwnrtntrvkojnjgqplynutnxqpnjakourgnrw,”nRntur.,ntvrorglen“Xqpncjvrg.
vjnqbnJ.lucnUoojgnKqj’tn.pkrgenRnyu.ngqnr.junwyuwntpmynrg.rsr.puotn.r.
jartwnqpwtr.jnqbntwqcrjte”

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtncqtjnug.norwnyrtnkrkjen“Gqn.qpzwnxqpnwyrgfnwyuwnxqpnucj
mqvkorvjgwrglnvjnrgnmqvkucrglnvjnwqn.pkrg,”nyjnqztjcsj.en“Gqh,nrgnvx
qkrgrqg,n.pkrgnhutnunsjcxnrgbjcrqcnbjooqhenWyuwnwcrmfnqbnyrtnqbnzcjufrgl
rgnqgnyrtnbcrjg.t’nwyqplywtnhrwynugnukcqkqtncjvucfnubwjcnunipucwjcnqb
ugnyqpc’tntrojgmjnrtncjuooxnsjcxntyqhxnug.ntpkjcbrmruoenYjnyu.ntqvj
uguoxwrmuonljgrpt,ngqn.qpzw;nzpwnyjnhutnzxngqnvjugtntpmynunkyjgqvjgqgnut
Kqjnukkjucj.nwqnrvulrgje”

“Yusjnxqpncju.nLuzqcrup’tnhqcft?”nRnutfj.en“.qjtnOjmqinmqvjnpknwqnxqpc
r.junqbnun.jwjmwrsj?”

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtntgrbbj.ntuc.qgrmuooxen“Ojmqinhutnunvrtjcuzojnzpglojc,”
nyjntur.,nrgnugnuglcxnsqrmj;n“yjnyu.nqgoxnqgjnwyrglnwqncjmqvvjg.nyrv,nug.
wyuwnhutnyrtnjgjclxenWyuwnzqqfnvu.jnvjnkqtrwrsjoxnrooenWyjnipjtwrqgnhut
yqhnwqnr.jgwrbxnugnpgfgqhgnkcrtqgjcenRnmqpo.nyusjn.qgjnrwnrgnwhjgwx-bqpc
yqpctenOjmqinwqqfntranvqgwytnqcntqenRwnvrlywnzjnvu.jnunwjaw-zqqfnbqc
.jwjmwrsjtnwqnwjumynwyjvnhyuwnwqnusqr.e”

Rnbjowncuwyjcnrg.rlgugwnuwnyusrglnwhqnmyucumwjctnhyqvnRnyu.nu.vrcj.
wcjuwj.nrgnwyrtnmusuorjcntwxojenRnhuofj.nqsjcnwqnwyjnhrg.qh,nug.ntwqq.
oqqfrglnqpwnrgwqnwyjnzptxntwcjjwen“Wyrtnbjooqhnvuxnzjnsjcxnmojsjc,”nR
tur.nwqnvxtjob,n“zpwnyjnrtnmjcwurgoxnsjcxnmqgmjrwj.e”

“Wyjcjnucjngqnmcrvjtnug.ngqnmcrvrguotnrgnwyjtjn.uxt,”nyjntur.,
ipjcpoqptoxen“HyuwnrtnwyjnptjnqbnyusrglnzcurgtnrgnqpcnkcqbjttrqgenRnfgqh
hjoonwyuwnRnyusjnrwnrgnvjnwqnvufjnvxnguvjnbuvqptenGqnvugnorsjtnqcnyut
jsjcnorsj.nhyqnyutnzcqplywnwyjntuvjnuvqpgwnqbntwp.xnug.nqbnguwpcuo
wuojgwnwqnwyjn.jwjmwrqgnqbnmcrvjnhyrmynRnyusjn.qgjenUg.nhyuwnrtnwyj
cjtpow?nWyjcjnrtngqnmcrvjnwqn.jwjmw,nqc,nuwnvqtw,ntqvjnzpglorglnsroourgx
hrwynunvqwrsjntqnwcugtkucjgwnwyuwnjsjgnunTmqwoug.nXuc.nqbbrmruonmugntjj
wycqplynrwe”

Rnhutntwroonuggqxj.nuwnyrtnzpvkwrqptntwxojnqbnmqgsjctuwrqgenRnwyqplywnrw
zjtwnwqnmyugljnwyjnwqkrme

“Rnhqg.jcnhyuwnwyuwnbjooqhnrtnoqqfrglnbqc?”nRnutfj.,nkqrgwrglnwqnu
twuohucw,nkourgox-.cjttj.nrg.rsr.puonhyqnhutnhuofrglntoqhoxn.qhgnwyj
qwyjcntr.jnqbnwyjntwcjjw,noqqfrglnugarqptoxnuwnwyjngpvzjctenYjnyu.
unoucljnzopjnjgsjoqkjnrgnyrtnyug.,nug.nhutnjsr.jgwoxnwyjnzjucjcnqbnu
vjttulje

“Xqpnvjugnwyjncjwrcj.ntjcljugwnqbnVucrgjt,”ntur.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjte

“Zculnug.nzqpgmj!”nwyqplywnRnwqnvxtjoben“YjnfgqhtnwyuwnRnmuggqwnsjcrbx
yrtnlpjtte”

Wyjnwyqplywnyu.nyuc.oxnkuttj.nwycqplynvxnvrg.nhyjgnwyjnvugnhyqvnhjnhjcj
huwmyrglnmuplywntrlywnqbnwyjngpvzjcnqgnqpcn.qqc,nug.ncugncukr.oxnumcqtt
wyjncqu.huxenHjnyjuc.nunoqp.nfgqmf,nun.jjknsqrmjnzjoqh,nug.nyjusxntwjkt
utmjg.rglnwyjntwurce

“BqcnVcenTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,”nyjntur.,ntwjkkrglnrgwqnwyjncqqvnug.nyug.rgl
vxnbcrjg.nwyjnojwwjce

YjcjnhutnugnqkkqcwpgrwxnqbnwufrglnwyjnmqgmjrwnqpwnqbnyrvenYjnorwwoj
wyqplywnqbnwyrtnhyjgnyjnvu.jnwyuwncug.qvntyqwen“VuxnRnutf,nvxnou.,”nR
tur.,nrgnwyjnzoug.jtwnsqrmj,n“hyuwnxqpcnwcu.jnvuxnzj?”

“Mqvvrttrqgurcj,ntrc,”nyjntur.,nlcpbboxen“Pgrbqcvnuhuxnbqcncjkurcte”

“Ug.nxqpnhjcj?”nRnutfj.,nhrwynuntorlywoxnvuormrqptnlougmjnuwnvx
mqvkugrqge

“Untjcljugw,ntrc,nCqxuonVucrgjnOrlywnRgbugwcx,ntrcenGqnugthjc?nCrlyw,
trce”

Yjnmormfj.nyrtnyjjotnwqljwyjc,ncurtj.nyrtnyug.nrgnuntuopwj,nug.nhut
lqgje




MYUKWJCnRRRenWYJnOUPCRTWQGnLUC.JGnVXTWJCXn[6]


RnMQGBJTTnwyuwnRnhutnmqgtr.jcuzoxntwucwoj.nzxnwyrtnbcjtynkcqqbnqbnwyj
kcumwrmuonguwpcjnqbnvxnmqvkugrqg’tnwyjqcrjtenVxncjtkjmwnbqcnyrtnkqhjct
qbnuguoxtrtnrgmcjutj.nhqg.cqptoxenWyjcjntwrooncjvurgj.ntqvjnopcfrgl
tptkrmrqgnrgnvxnvrg.,nyqhjsjc,nwyuwnwyjnhyqojnwyrglnhutnunkcj-uccuglj.
jkrtq.j,nrgwjg.j.nwqn.uddojnvj,nwyqplynhyuwnjucwyoxnqz jmwnyjnmqpo.nyusj
rgnwufrglnvjnrgnhutnkutwnvxnmqvkcjyjgtrqgenHyjgnRnoqqfj.nuwnyrvnyj
yu.nbrgrtyj.ncju.rglnwyjngqwj,nug.nyrtnjxjtnyu.nuttpvj.nwyjnsumugw,
oumf-optwcjnjakcjttrqgnhyrmyntyqhj.nvjgwuonuztwcumwrqge

“Yqhnrgnwyjnhqco.n.r.nxqpn.j.pmjnwyuw?”nRnutfj.e

“.j.pmjnhyuw?”ntur.nyj,nkjwpougwoxe

“Hyx,nwyuwnyjnhutnuncjwrcj.ntjcljugwnqbnVucrgjte”

“Rnyusjngqnwrvjnbqcnwcrbojt,”nyjnugthjcj.,nzcptipjox;nwyjgnhrwynuntvroj,
“Jamptjnvxncp.jgjttenXqpnzcqfjnwyjnwycju.nqbnvxnwyqplywt;nzpwnkjcyukt
rwnrtnutnhjooenTqnxqpnumwpuooxnhjcjngqwnuzojnwqntjjnwyuwnwyuwnvugnhutnu
tjcljugwnqbnVucrgjt?”

“Gq,nrg.jj.e”

“RwnhutnjutrjcnwqnfgqhnrwnwyugnwqnjakourgnhyxnRnfgjhnrwenRbnxqp
hjcjnutfj.nwqnkcqsjnwyuwnwhqnug.nwhqnvu.jnbqpc,nxqpnvrlywnbrg.ntqvj
.rbbrmpowx,nug.nxjwnxqpnucjniprwjntpcjnqbnwyjnbumwenJsjgnumcqttnwyj
twcjjwnRnmqpo.ntjjnunlcjuwnzopjnugmyqcnwuwwqqj.nqgnwyjnzumfnqbnwyj
bjooqh’tnyug.enWyuwntvumfj.nqbnwyjntjuenYjnyu.nunvrorwucxnmuccrulj,
yqhjsjc,nug.ncjlpouwrqgntr.jnhyrtfjctenWyjcjnhjnyusjnwyjnvucrgjenYjnhut
unvugnhrwyntqvjnuvqpgwnqbntjob-rvkqcwugmjnug.nunmjcwurgnurcnqbnmqvvug.e
Xqpnvptwnyusjnqztjcsj.nwyjnhuxnrgnhyrmynyjnyjo.nyrtnyju.nug.nthpgl
yrtnmugjenUntwju.x,ncjtkjmwuzoj,nvr..oj-ulj.nvug,nwqq,nqgnwyjnbumjnqb
yrv--uoonbumwtnhyrmynoj.nvjnwqnzjorjsjnwyuwnyjnyu.nzjjgnuntjcljugwe”

“Hqg.jcbpo!”nRnj umpouwj.e

“Mqvvqgkoumj,”ntur.nYqovjt,nwyqplynRnwyqplywnbcqvnyrtnjakcjttrqgnwyuwnyj
hutnkojutj.nuwnvxnjsr.jgwntpckcrtjnug.nu.vrcuwrqgen“Rntur.n ptwngqhnwyuw
wyjcjnhjcjngqnmcrvrguotenRwnukkjuctnwyuwnRnuvnhcqgl--oqqfnuwnwyrt!”nYj
wycjhnvjnqsjcnwyjngqwjnhyrmynwyjnmqvvrttrqgurcjnyu.nzcqplywen[7]

“Hyx,”nRnmcrj.,nutnRnmutwnvxnjxjnqsjcnrw,n“wyrtnrtnwjccrzoj!”

“Rwn.qjtntjjvnwqnzjnunorwwojnqpwnqbnwyjnmqvvqg,”nyjncjvucfj.,nmuovoxe
“Hqpo.nxqpnvrg.ncju.rglnrwnwqnvjnuoqp.?”

WyrtnrtnwyjnojwwjcnhyrmynRncju.nwqnyrv----


“VXn.JUCnVCenTYJCOQMFnYQOVJT,--

“Wyjcjnyutnzjjgnunzu.nzptrgjttn.pcrglnwyjngrlywnuwn3,nOupcrtwqgnLuc.jgt,
qbbnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.enQpcnvugnqgnwyjnzjuwntuhnunorlywnwyjcjnuzqpwnwhqnrg
wyjnvqcgrgl,nug.nutnwyjnyqptjnhutnugnjvkwxnqgj,ntptkjmwj.nwyuwntqvjwyrgl
hutnuvrttenYjnbqpg.nwyjn.qqcnqkjg,nug.nrgnwyjnbcqgwncqqv,nhyrmynrtnzucj
qbnbpcgrwpcj,n.rtmqsjcj.nwyjnzq.xnqbnunljgwojvug,nhjoon.cjttj.,nug.
yusrglnmuc.tnrgnyrtnkqmfjwnzjucrglnwyjnguvjnqbn‘Jgqmyn en.cjzzjc,
Mojsjoug.,nQyrq,nPeTeUe’nWyjcjnyu.nzjjgngqncqzzjcx,ngqcnrtnwyjcjnugx
jsr.jgmjnutnwqnyqhnwyjnvugnvjwnyrtn.juwyenWyjcjnucjnvucftnqbnzoqq.nrg
wyjncqqv,nzpwnwyjcjnrtngqnhqpg.npkqgnyrtnkjctqgenHjnucjnuwnunoqttnutnwq
yqhnyjnmuvjnrgwqnwyjnjvkwxnyqptj;nrg.jj.,nwyjnhyqojnubburcnrtnunkpddojce
Rbnxqpnmugnmqvjncqpg.nwqnwyjnyqptjnugxnwrvjnzjbqcjnwhjosj,nxqpnhroonbrg.
vjnwyjcjenRnyusjnojbwnjsjcxwyrgln_rgntwuwpnipq_npgwronRnyjucnbcqvnxqpe
RbnxqpnucjnpguzojnwqnmqvjnRntyuoonlrsjnxqpnbpoojcn.jwurot,nug.nhqpo.
jtwjjvnrwnunlcjuwnfrg.gjttnrbnxqpnhqpo.nbusqpcnvjnhrwynxqpcnqkrgrqge
Xqpctnburwybpoox,

“WQZRUTnLCJLTQGe”


“LcjltqgnrtnwyjntvucwjtwnqbnwyjnTmqwoug.nXuc.jct,”nvxnbcrjg.ncjvucfj.;
“yjnug.nOjtwcu.jnucjnwyjnkrmfnqbnunzu.noqwenWyjxnucjnzqwyniprmfnug.
jgjcljwrm,nzpwnmqgsjgwrqguo--tyqmfrgloxntqenWyjxnyusjnwyjrcnfgrsjt
rgwqnqgjnugqwyjc,nwqqenWyjxnucjnutn juoqptnutnunkurcnqbnkcqbjttrqguo
zjupwrjtenWyjcjnhroonzjntqvjnbpgnqsjcnwyrtnmutjnrbnwyjxnucjnzqwynkpw
pkqgnwyjntmjgwe”

Rnhutnuvudj.nuwnwyjnmuovnhuxnrgnhyrmynyjncrkkoj.nqgen“Tpcjoxnwyjcjnrt
gqwnunvqvjgwnwqnzjnoqtw,”nRnmcrj.,n“tyuoonRnlqnug.nqc.jcnxqpnunmuz?”

“R’vngqwntpcjnuzqpwnhyjwyjcnRntyuoonlqenRnuvnwyjnvqtwnrgmpcuzoxnoudx
.jsronwyuwnjsjcntwqq.nrgntyqjnojuwyjc--wyuwnrt,nhyjgnwyjnbrwnrtnqgnvj,
bqcnRnmugnzjntkcxnjgqplynuwnwrvjte”

“Hyx,nrwnrtn ptwntpmynunmyugmjnutnxqpnyusjnzjjgnoqglrglnbqce”

“Vxn.jucnbjooqh,nhyuwn.qjtnrwnvuwwjcnwqnvjenTpkkqtrglnRnpgcusjonwyj
hyqojnvuwwjc,nxqpnvuxnzjntpcjnwyuwnLcjltqg,nOjtwcu.j,nug.nMqenhroo
kqmfjwnuoonwyjnmcj.rwenWyuwnmqvjtnqbnzjrglnugnpgqbbrmruonkjctqgulje”

“Zpwnyjnzjltnxqpnwqnyjoknyrve”

“XjtenYjnfgqhtnwyuwnRnuvnyrtntpkjcrqc,nug.numfgqhoj.ljtnrwnwqnvj;nzpw
yjnhqpo.nmpwnyrtnwqglpjnqpwnzjbqcjnyjnhqpo.nqhgnrwnwqnugxnwyrc.nkjctqge
Yqhjsjc,nhjnvuxnutnhjoonlqnug.nyusjnunoqqfenRntyuoonhqcfnrwnqpwnqgnvx
qhgnyqqfenRnvuxnyusjnunouplynuwnwyjvnrbnRnyusjngqwyrglnjotjenMqvjnqg!”

Yjnyptwoj.nqgnyrtnqsjcmquw,nug.nzptwoj.nuzqpwnrgnunhuxnwyuwntyqhj.nwyuw
ugnjgjcljwrmnbrwnyu.ntpkjctj.j.nwyjnukuwyjwrmnqgje

“Ljwnxqpcnyuw,”nyjntur.e

“Xqpnhrtynvjnwqnmqvj?”

“Xjt,nrbnxqpnyusjngqwyrglnzjwwjcnwqn.qe”nUnvrgpwjnouwjcnhjnhjcjnzqwynrg
unyugtqv,n.crsrglnbpcrqptoxnbqcnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.e

Rwnhutnunbqllx,nmoqp.xnvqcgrgl,nug.nun.pg-mqoqpcj.nsjronypglnqsjcnwyj
yqptj-wqkt,noqqfrglnorfjnwyjncjbojmwrqgnqbnwyjnvp.-mqoqpcj.ntwcjjwt
zjgjuwyenVxnmqvkugrqgnhutnrgnwyjnzjtwnqbntkrcrwt,nug.nkcuwwoj.nuhux
uzqpwnMcjvqgunbr..ojt,nug.nwyjn.rbbjcjgmjnzjwhjjgnunTwcu.rsucrptnug.
ugnUvuwrenUtnbqcnvxtjob,nRnhutntrojgw,nbqcnwyjn.poonhjuwyjcnug.nwyj
vjougmyqoxnzptrgjttnpkqgnhyrmynhjnhjcjnjglulj.,n.jkcjttj.nvxntkrcrwte

“Xqpn.qg’wntjjvnwqnlrsjnvpmynwyqplywnwqnwyjnvuwwjcnrgnyug.,”nRntur.nuw
outw,nrgwjccpkwrglnYqovjt’nvptrmuon.rtiprtrwrqge

“Gqn.uwunxjw,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Rwnrtnunmukrwuonvrtwufjnwqnwyjqcrdjnzjbqcj
xqpnyusjnuoonwyjnjsr.jgmjenRwnzrutjtnwyjn p.lvjgwe”

“Xqpnhroonyusjnxqpcn.uwuntqqg,”nRncjvucfj.,nkqrgwrglnhrwynvxnbrgljc;
“wyrtnrtnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.,nug.nwyuwnrtnwyjnyqptj,nrbnRnuvngqwnsjcxnvpmy
vrtwufjge”

“TqnrwnrtenTwqk,n.crsjc,ntwqk!”nHjnhjcjntwroonunypg.cj.nxuc.tnqcntqnbcqv
rw,nzpwnyjnrgtrtwj.npkqgnqpcnuorlywrgl,nug.nhjnbrgrtyj.nqpcn qpcgjxnpkqg
bqqwe

Gpvzjcn3,nOupcrtwqgnLuc.jgtnhqcjnugnroo-qvjgj.nug.nvrguwqcxnoqqfenRwnhut
qgjnqbnbqpcnhyrmyntwqq.nzumfntqvjnorwwojnhuxnbcqvnwyjntwcjjw,nwhqnzjrgl
qmmpkrj.nug.nwhqnjvkwxenWyjnouwwjcnoqqfj.nqpwnhrwynwycjjnwrjctnqbnsumugw
vjougmyqoxnhrg.qht,nhyrmynhjcjnzougfnug.n.cjucx,ntusjnwyuwnyjcjnug.
wyjcjnun“WqnOjw”nmuc.nyu.n.jsjoqkj.norfjnunmuwucumwnpkqgnwyjnzojucj.
kugjtenUntvuoonluc.jgntkcrgfoj.nqsjcnhrwynuntmuwwjcj.njcpkwrqgnqbntrmfox
kougwtntjkucuwj.njumynqbnwyjtjnyqptjtnbcqvnwyjntwcjjw,nug.nhutnwcusjctj.
zxnunguccqhnkuwyhux,nxjooqhrtynrgnmqoqpc,nug.nmqgtrtwrglnukkucjgwoxnqbnu
vrawpcjnqbnmouxnug.nqbnlcusjoenWyjnhyqojnkoumjnhutnsjcxntoqkkxnbcqvnwyj
curgnhyrmynyu.nbuoojgnwycqplynwyjngrlywenWyjnluc.jgnhutnzqpg.j.nzxnu
wycjj-bqqwnzcrmfnhuoonhrwynunbcrgljnqbnhqq.ncurotnpkqgnwyjnwqk,nug.
ulurgtwnwyrtnhuoonhutnojugrglnuntwuohucwnkqormjnmqgtwuzoj,ntpccqpg.j.nzx
untvuoonfgqwnqbnoqubjct,nhyqnmcugj.nwyjrcngjmftnug.ntwcurgj.nwyjrcnjxjt
rgnwyjnsurgnyqkjnqbnmuwmyrglntqvjnlorvktjnqbnwyjnkcqmjj.rgltnhrwyrge

Rnyu.nrvulrgj.nwyuwnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnhqpo.nuwnqgmjnyusjnypccrj.nrgwqnwyj
yqptjnug.nkopglj.nrgwqnuntwp.xnqbnwyjnvxtwjcxenGqwyrglnukkjucj.nwqnzj
bpcwyjcnbcqvnyrtnrgwjgwrqgenHrwynugnurcnqbngqgmyuougmjnhyrmy,npg.jcnwyj
mrcmpvtwugmjt,ntjjvj.nwqnvjnwqnzqc.jcnpkqgnubbjmwuwrqg,nyjnoqpglj.npk
ug.n.qhgnwyjnkusjvjgw,nug.nludj.nsumugwoxnuwnwyjnlcqpg.,nwyjntfx,nwyj
qkkqtrwjnyqptjtnug.nwyjnorgjnqbncurorgltenYusrglnbrgrtyj.nyrtntmcpwrgx,
yjnkcqmjj.j.ntoqhoxn.qhgnwyjnkuwy,nqcncuwyjcn.qhgnwyjnbcrgljnqbnlcutt
hyrmynbougfj.nwyjnkuwy,nfjjkrglnyrtnjxjtncrsjwj.npkqgnwyjnlcqpg.enWhrmj
yjntwqkkj.,nug.nqgmjnRntuhnyrvntvroj,nug.nyjuc.nyrvnpwwjcnugnjamouvuwrqg
qbntuwrtbumwrqgenWyjcjnhjcjnvugxnvucftnqbnbqqwtwjktnpkqgnwyjnhjwnmouxjx
tqro,nzpwntrgmjnwyjnkqormjnyu.nzjjgnmqvrglnug.nlqrglnqsjcnrw,nRnhut
pguzojnwqntjjnyqhnvxnmqvkugrqgnmqpo.nyqkjnwqnojucgnugxwyrglnbcqvnrwe
TwroonRnyu.nyu.ntpmynjawcuqc.rgucxnjsr.jgmjnqbnwyjniprmfgjttnqbnyrt
kjcmjkwrsjnbumpowrjt,nwyuwnRnyu.ngqn.qpzwnwyuwnyjnmqpo.ntjjnunlcjuwn.juo
hyrmynhutnyr..jgnbcqvnvje

Uwnwyjn.qqcnqbnwyjnyqptjnhjnhjcjnvjwnzxnunwuoo,nhyrwj-bumj.,
bouajg-yurcj.nvug,nhrwynungqwjzqqfnrgnyrtnyug.,nhyqncptyj.nbqchuc.nug.
hcpglnvxnmqvkugrqg’tnyug.nhrwynjbbptrqgen“Rwnrtnrg.jj.nfrg.nqbnxqpnwq
mqvj,”nyjntur.,n“Rnyusjnyu.njsjcxwyrglnojbwnpgwqpmyj.e”

“Jamjkwnwyuw!”nvxnbcrjg.nugthjcj.,nkqrgwrglnuwnwyjnkuwyhuxen“Rbnunyjc.
qbnzpbbuoqjtnyu.nkuttj.nuoqglnwyjcjnmqpo.ngqwnzjnunlcjuwjcnvjttenGq
.qpzw,nyqhjsjc,nxqpnyu.n.cuhgnxqpcnqhgnmqgmoptrqgt,nLcjltqg,nzjbqcjnxqp
kjcvrwwj.nwyrte”

“Rnyusjnyu.ntqnvpmynwqn.qnrgtr.jnwyjnyqptj,”nwyjn.jwjmwrsjntur.
jsutrsjoxen“Vxnmqoojulpj,nVcenOjtwcu.j,nrtnyjcjenRnyu.ncjorj.npkqgnyrv
wqnoqqfnubwjcnwyrte”

Yqovjtnlougmj.nuwnvjnug.ncurtj.nyrtnjxjzcqhtntuc.qgrmuooxen“Hrwynwhq
tpmynvjgnutnxqpctjobnug.nOjtwcu.jnpkqgnwyjnlcqpg.,nwyjcjnhroongqwnzj
vpmynbqcnunwyrc.nkucwxnwqnbrg.nqpw,”nyjntur.e

Lcjltqgncpzzj.nyrtnyug.tnrgnuntjob-tuwrtbrj.nhuxen“Rnwyrgfnhjnyusjn.qgj
uoonwyuwnmugnzjn.qgj,”nyjnugthjcj.;n“rw’tnunipjjcnmutjnwyqply,nug.nR
fgjhnxqpcnwutwjnbqcntpmynwyrglte”

“Xqpn.r.ngqwnmqvjnyjcjnrgnunmuz?”nutfj.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjte

“Gq,ntrce”

“GqcnOjtwcu.j?”

“Gq,ntrce”

“Wyjgnojwnptnlqnug.noqqfnuwnwyjncqqve”nHrwynhyrmynrgmqgtjipjgwncjvucfnyj
twcq.jnqgnrgwqnwyjnyqptj,nbqooqhj.nzxnLcjltqg,nhyqtjnbjuwpcjtnjakcjttj.
yrtnutwqgrtyvjgwe

Untyqcwnkuttulj,nzucjnkougfj.nug.n.ptwx,noj.nwqnwyjnfrwmyjgnug.nqbbrmjte
Whqn.qqctnqkjgj.nqpwnqbnrwnwqnwyjnojbwnug.nwqnwyjncrlywenQgjnqbnwyjtj
yu.nqzsrqptoxnzjjgnmoqtj.nbqcnvugxnhjjftenWyjnqwyjcnzjoqglj.nwqnwyj
.rgrgl-cqqv,nhyrmynhutnwyjnukucwvjgwnrgnhyrmynwyjnvxtwjcrqptnubburcnyu.
qmmpccj.enYqovjtnhuofj.nrg,nug.nRnbqooqhj.nyrvnhrwynwyuwntpz.pj.nbjjorgl
uwnvxnyjucwnhyrmynwyjnkcjtjgmjnqbn.juwynrgtkrcjte

Rwnhutnunoucljntipucjncqqv,noqqfrglnuoonwyjnoucljcnbcqvnwyjnuztjgmj
qbnuoonbpcgrwpcjenUnspolucnboucrglnkukjcnu.qcgj.nwyjnhuoot,nzpwnrwnhut
zoqwmyj.nrgnkoumjtnhrwynvro.jh,nug.nyjcjnug.nwyjcjnlcjuwntwcrktnyu.
zjmqvjn.jwumyj.nug.nypgln.qhg,njakqtrglnwyjnxjooqhnkoutwjcnzjgjuwye
Qkkqtrwjnwyjn.qqcnhutnuntyqhxnbrcjkoumj,ntpcvqpgwj.nzxnunvugwjokrjmjnqb
rvrwuwrqgnhyrwjnvuczojenQgnqgjnmqcgjcnqbnwyrtnhutntwpmfnwyjntwpvknqbnu
cj.nhuanmug.ojenWyjntqorwucxnhrg.qhnhutntqn.rcwxnwyuwnwyjnorlywnhut
yudxnug.npgmjcwurg,nlrsrglnun.poonlcjxnwrgljnwqnjsjcxwyrgl,nhyrmynhut
rgwjgtrbrj.nzxnwyjnwyrmfnouxjcnqbn.ptwnhyrmynmquwj.nwyjnhyqojnukucwvjgwe

Uoonwyjtjn.jwurotnRnqztjcsj.nubwjchuc.tenUwnkcjtjgwnvxnuwwjgwrqgnhut
mjgwcj.npkqgnwyjntrglojnlcrvnvqwrqgojttnbrlpcjnhyrmynouxntwcjwmyj.npkqg
wyjnzquc.t,nhrwynsumugwntrlywojttnjxjtntwucrglnpknuwnwyjn.rtmqoqpcj.
mjrorglenRwnhutnwyuwnqbnunvugnuzqpwnbqcwx-wycjjnqcnbqcwx-bqpcnxjuctnqb
ulj,nvr..oj-trdj.,nzcqu.ntyqpo.jcj.,nhrwynmcrtknmpcorglnzoumfnyurc,nug.
untyqcwntwpzzoxnzjuc.enYjnhutn.cjttj.nrgnunyjusxnzcqu.moqwynbcqmfnmquw
ug.nhurtwmquw,nhrwynorlyw-mqoqpcj.nwcqptjct,nug.nrvvumpouwjnmqoouc
ug.nmpbbtenUnwqknyuw,nhjoonzcptyj.nug.nwcrv,nhutnkoumj.npkqgnwyjnboqqc
zjtr.jnyrvenYrtnyug.tnhjcjnmojgmyj.nug.nyrtnucvtnwycqhgnuzcqu.,nhyroj
yrtnoqhjcnorvztnhjcjnrgwjcoqmfj.nutnwyqplynyrtn.juwyntwcpllojnyu.nzjjgnu
lcrjsqptnqgjenQgnyrtncrlr.nbumjnwyjcjntwqq.nugnjakcjttrqgnqbnyqccqc,
ug.nutnrwntjjvj.nwqnvj,nqbnyuwcj.,ntpmynutnRnyusjngjsjcntjjgnpkqgnypvug
bjuwpcjtenWyrtnvuorlgugwnug.nwjccrzojnmqgwqcwrqg,nmqvzrgj.nhrwynwyjnoqh
bqcjyju.,nzopgwngqtj,nug.nkcqlguwyqptn uhnlusjnwyjn.ju.nvugnuntrglpoucox
trvrqptnug.nukj-orfjnukkjucugmj,nhyrmynhutnrgmcjutj.nzxnyrtnhcrwyrgl,
pgguwpcuonkqtwpcjenRnyusjntjjgn.juwynrgnvugxnbqcvt,nzpwngjsjcnyut
rwnukkjucj.nwqnvjnrgnunvqcjnbjuctqvjnutkjmwnwyugnrgnwyuwn.ucfnlcrvx
ukucwvjgw,nhyrmynoqqfj.nqpwnpkqgnqgjnqbnwyjnvurgnucwjcrjtnqbntpzpczug
Oqg.qge

Ojtwcu.j,nojugnug.nbjccjw-orfjnutnjsjc,nhutntwug.rglnzxnwyjn.qqchux,nug.
lcjjwj.nvxnmqvkugrqgnug.nvxtjobe

“Wyrtnmutjnhroonvufjnuntwrc,ntrc,”nyjncjvucfj.en“RwnzjuwtnugxwyrglnR
yusjntjjg,nug.nRnuvngqnmyrmfjge”

“Wyjcjnrtngqnmopj?”ntur.nLcjltqge

“Gqgjnuwnuoo,”nmyrvj.nrgnOjtwcu.je

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtnukkcqumyj.nwyjnzq.x,nug.,nfgjjorgln.qhg,njauvrgj.nrw
rgwjgwoxen“Xqpnucjntpcjnwyuwnwyjcjnrtngqnhqpg.?”nyjnutfj.,nkqrgwrglnwq
gpvjcqptnlqpwtnug.ntkoutyjtnqbnzoqq.nhyrmynouxnuooncqpg.e

“Kqtrwrsj!”nmcrj.nzqwyn.jwjmwrsjte

“Wyjg,nqbnmqpctj,nwyrtnzoqq.nzjoqgltnwqnuntjmqg.nrg.rsr.puo--[8]
kcjtpvuzoxnwyjnvpc.jcjc,nrbnvpc.jcnyutnzjjgnmqvvrwwj.enRwncjvrg.tnvjnqb
wyjnmrcmpvtwugmjtnuwwjg.ugwnqgnwyjn.juwynqbnSugn ugtjg,nrgnPwcjmyw,nrg
wyjnxjucn‘34en.qnxqpncjvjvzjcnwyjnmutj,nLcjltqg?”

“Gq,ntrce”

“Cju.nrwnpk--xqpncjuooxntyqpo.enWyjcjnrtngqwyrglngjhnpg.jcnwyjntpgenRw
yutnuoonzjjgn.qgjnzjbqcje”

Utnyjntkqfj,nyrtngrvzojnbrgljctnhjcjnboxrglnyjcj,nwyjcj,nug.njsjcxhyjcj,
bjjorgl,nkcjttrgl,npgzpwwqgrgl,njauvrgrgl,nhyrojnyrtnjxjtnhqcjnwyjntuvj
buc-uhuxnjakcjttrqgnhyrmynRnyusjnuocju.xncjvucfj.npkqgenTqnthrbwoxnhut
wyjnjauvrguwrqgnvu.j,nwyuwnqgjnhqpo.nyuc.oxnyusjnlpjttj.nwyjnvrgpwjgjtt
hrwynhyrmynrwnhutnmqg.pmwj.enBrguoox,nyjntgrbbj.nwyjn.ju.nvug’tnorkt,
ug.nwyjgnlougmj.nuwnwyjntqojtnqbnyrtnkuwjgwnojuwyjcnzqqwte

“Yjnyutngqwnzjjgnvqsj.nuwnuoo?”nyjnutfj.e

“Gqnvqcjnwyugnhutngjmjttucxnbqcnwyjnkpckqtjtnqbnqpcnjauvrguwrqge”

“Xqpnmugnwufjnyrvnwqnwyjnvqcwpucxngqh,”nyjntur.en“Wyjcjnrtngqwyrglnvqcj
wqnzjnojucgj.e”

Lcjltqgnyu.nuntwcjwmyjcnug.nbqpcnvjgnuwnyug.enUwnyrtnmuoonwyjxnjgwjcj.
wyjncqqv,nug.nwyjntwcugljcnhutnorbwj.nug.nmuccrj.nqpwenUtnwyjxncurtj.
yrv,nuncrglnwrgfoj.n.qhgnug.ncqooj.numcqttnwyjnboqqcenOjtwcu.jnlcuzzj.
rwnpknug.ntwucj.nuwnrwnhrwynvxtwrbrj.njxjte

“Wyjcj’tnzjjgnunhqvugnyjcj,”nyjnmcrj.en“Rw’tnunhqvug’tnhj..rgl-crgle”

Yjnyjo.nrwnqpw,nutnyjntkqfj,npkqgnwyjnkuovnqbnyrtnyug.enHjnuoonluwyjcj.
cqpg.nyrvnug.nludj.nuwnrwenWyjcjnmqpo.nzjngqn.qpzwnwyuwnwyuwnmrcmojwnqb
kourgnlqo.nyu.nqgmjnu.qcgj.nwyjnbrgljcnqbnunzcr.je

“Wyrtnmqvkormuwjtnvuwwjct,”ntur.nLcjltqgen“Yjusjgnfgqht,nwyjxnhjcj
mqvkormuwj.njgqplynzjbqcje”

“Xqp’cjntpcjnrwn.qjtg’wntrvkorbxnwyjv?”nqztjcsj.nYqovjten“Wyjcj’t
gqwyrglnwqnzjnojucgj.nzxntwucrglnuwnrwenHyuwn.r.nxqpnbrg.nrgnyrt
kqmfjwt?”

“Hjnyusjnrwnuoonyjcj,”ntur.nLcjltqg,nkqrgwrglnwqnunorwwjcnqbnqz jmwt
pkqgnqgjnqbnwyjnzqwwqvntwjktnqbnwyjntwurcten“Unlqo.nhuwmy,nGqen97163,nzx
Zuccup.,nqbnOqg.qgenLqo.nUozjcwnmyurg,nsjcxnyjusxnug.ntqor.enLqo.ncrgl,
hrwynvutqgrmn.jsrmjenLqo.nkrg--zpoo-.ql’tnyju.,nhrwyncpzrjtnutnjxjte
Cpttrugnojuwyjcnmuc.-mutj,nhrwynmuc.tnqbnJgqmyn en.cjzzjcnqbnMojsjoug.,
mqccjtkqg.rglnhrwynwyjnJen en.enpkqgnwyjnorgjgenGqnkpctj,nzpwnoqqtj
vqgjxnwqnwyjnjawjgwnqbntjsjgnkqpg.tnwyrcwjjgenKqmfjwnj.rwrqgnqb
Zqmmummrq’tn‘.jmuvjcqg,’nhrwynguvjnqbn qtjkynTwugljctqgnpkqgnwyj
box-ojubenWhqnojwwjct--qgjnu..cjttj.nwqnJen en.cjzzjcnug.nqgjnwqn qtjky
Twugljctqge”

“Uwnhyuwnu..cjtt?”

“UvjcrmugnJamyuglj,nTwcug.--wqnzjnojbwnwroonmuooj.nbqcenWyjxnucjnzqwy
bcqvnwyjnLprqgnTwjuvtyrknMqvkugx,nug.ncjbjcnwqnwyjnturorglnqbnwyjrc
zquwtnbcqvnOrsjckqqoenRwnrtnmojucnwyuwnwyrtnpgbqcwpguwjnvugnhutnuzqpwnwq
cjwpcgnwqnGjhnXqcfe”

“Yusjnxqpnvu.jnugxnrgiprcrjtnutnwqnwyrtnvug,nTwugljctqg?”

“Rn.r.nrwnuwnqgmj,ntrc,”ntur.nLcjltqgen“Rnyusjnyu.nu.sjcwrtjvjgwt
tjgwnwqnuoonwyjngjhtkukjct,nug.nqgjnqbnvxnvjgnyutnlqgjnwqnwyjnUvjcrmug
Jamyuglj,nzpwnyjnyutngqwncjwpcgj.nxjwe”

“YusjnxqpntjgwnwqnMojsjoug.?”

“Hjnwjojlcukyj.nwyrtnvqcgrgle”

“Yqhn.r.nxqpnhqc.nxqpcnrgiprcrjt?”

“Hjntrvkoxn.jwuroj.nwyjnmrcmpvtwugmjt,nug.ntur.nwyuwnhjntyqpo.nzjnlou.
qbnugxnrgbqcvuwrqgnhyrmynmqpo.nyjoknpte”

“Xqpn.r.ngqwnutfnbqcnkucwrmpouctnqgnugxnkqrgwnhyrmynukkjucj.nwqnxqpnwq
zjnmcpmruo?”

“Rnutfj.nuzqpwnTwugljctqge”

“Gqwyrglnjotj?nRtnwyjcjngqnmrcmpvtwugmjnqgnhyrmynwyrtnhyqojnmutjnukkjuct
wqnyrglj?nHroonxqpngqwnwjojlcukynulurg?”

“Rnyusjntur.nuoonRnyusjnwqntux,”ntur.nLcjltqg,nrgnugnqbbjg.j.nsqrmje

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtnmypmfoj.nwqnyrvtjob,nug.nukkjucj.nwqnzjnuzqpwnwqnvufj
tqvjncjvucf,nhyjgnOjtwcu.j,nhyqnyu.nzjjgnrgnwyjnbcqgwncqqvnhyrojnhj
hjcjnyqo.rglnwyrtnmqgsjctuwrqgnrgnwyjnyuoo,ncjukkjucj.npkqgnwyjntmjgj,
cpzzrglnyrtnyug.tnrgnunkqvkqptnug.ntjob-tuwrtbrj.nvuggjce

“VcenLcjltqg,”nyjntur.,n“Rnyusjn ptwnvu.jnun.rtmqsjcxnqbnwyjnyrlyjtw
rvkqcwugmj,nug.nqgjnhyrmynhqpo.nyusjnzjjgnqsjcoqqfj.nyu.nRngqwnvu.jnu
mucjbponjauvrguwrqgnqbnwyjnhuoote”

Wyjnorwwojnvug’tnjxjtntkucfoj.nutnyjntkqfj,nug.nyjnhutnjsr.jgwoxnrg
untwuwjnqbntpkkcjttj.njapowuwrqgnuwnyusrglntmqcj.nunkqrgwnulurgtwnyrt
mqoojulpje

“Mqvjnyjcj,”nyjntur.,nzptworglnzumfnrgwqnwyjncqqv,nwyjnuwvqtkyjcjnqb
hyrmynbjownmojucjcntrgmjnwyjncjvqsuonqbnrwtnlyutwoxnrgvuwjen“Gqh,ntwug.
wyjcj!”

Yjntwcpmfnunvuwmynqgnyrtnzqqwnug.nyjo.nrwnpknulurgtwnwyjnhuooe

“Oqqfnuwnwyuw!”nyjntur.,nwcrpvkyugwoxe

Rnyusjncjvucfj.nwyuwnwyjnkukjcnyu.nbuoojgnuhuxnrgnkucwtenRgnwyrt
kucwrmpoucnmqcgjcnqbnwyjncqqvnunoucljnkrjmjnyu.nkjjoj.nqbb,nojusrglnu
xjooqhntipucjnqbnmquctjnkoutwjcrglenUmcqttnwyrtnzucjntkumjnwyjcjnhut
tmcuhoj.nrgnzoqq.-cj.nojwwjctnuntrglojnhqc.--

nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnCUMYJe


“Hyuwn.qnxqpnwyrgfnqbnwyuw?”nmcrj.nwyjn.jwjmwrsj,nhrwynwyjnurcnqbnu
tyqhvugnjayrzrwrglnyrtntyqhen“Wyrtnhutnqsjcoqqfj.nzjmuptjnrwnhutnrgnwyj
.ucfjtwnmqcgjcnqbnwyjncqqv,nug.ngqnqgjnwyqplywnqbnoqqfrglnwyjcjenWyj
vpc.jcjcnyutnhcrwwjgnrwnhrwynyrtnqcnyjcnqhgnzoqq.enTjjnwyrtntvjucnhyjcj
rwnyutnwcrmfoj.n.qhgnwyjnhuoo!nWyuwn.rtkqtjtnqbnwyjnr.junqbntprmr.j
ugxyqhenHyxnhutnwyuwnmqcgjcnmyqtjgnwqnhcrwjnrwnqg?nRnhroonwjoonxqpenTjj
wyuwnmug.ojnqgnwyjnvugwjokrjmjenRwnhutnorwnuwnwyjnwrvj,nug.nrbnrwnhut
orwnwyrtnmqcgjcnhqpo.nzjnwyjnzcrlywjtwnrgtwju.nqbnwyjn.ucfjtwnkqcwrqgnqb
wyjnhuooe”

“Ug.nhyuwn.qjtnrwnvjugngqhnwyuwnxqpn_yusj_nbqpg.nrw?”nutfj.nLcjltqgnrgnu
.jkcjmruwqcxnsqrmje

“Vjug?nHyx,nrwnvjugtnwyuwnwyjnhcrwjcnhutnlqrglnwqnkpwnwyjnbjvuojnguvj
Cumyjo,nzpwnhutn.rtwpczj.nzjbqcjnyjnqcntyjnyu.nwrvjnwqnbrgrtyenXqpnvucf
vxnhqc.t,nhyjgnwyrtnmutjnmqvjtnwqnzjnmojucj.npknxqpnhroonbrg.nwyuwnu
hqvugnguvj.nCumyjonyutntqvjwyrglnwqn.qnhrwynrwenRw’tnuoonsjcxnhjoonbqc
xqpnwqnouply,nVcenTyjcoqmfnYqovjtenXqpnvuxnzjnsjcxntvucwnug.nmojsjc,nzpw
wyjnqo.nyqpg.nrtnwyjnzjtw,nhyjgnuoonrtntur.nug.n.qgje”

“Rncjuooxnzjlnxqpcnkuc.qg!”ntur.nvxnmqvkugrqg,nhyqnyu.ncpbboj.nwyj
orwwojnvug’tnwjvkjcnzxnzpctwrglnrgwqnugnjakoqtrqgnqbnouplywjcen“Xqp
mjcwurgoxnyusjnwyjnmcj.rwnqbnzjrglnwyjnbrctwnqbnptnwqnbrg.nwyrtnqpw,
ug.,nutnxqpntux,nrwnzjuctnjsjcxnvucfnqbnyusrglnzjjgnhcrwwjgnzxnwyjnqwyjc
kucwrmrkugwnrgnoutwngrlyw’tnvxtwjcxenRnyusjngqwnyu.nwrvjnwqnjauvrgjnwyrt
cqqvnxjw,nzpwnhrwynxqpcnkjcvrttrqgnRntyuoon.qntqngqhe”

Utnyjntkqfj,nyjnhyrkkj.nunwukjnvjutpcjnug.nunoucljncqpg.nvulgrbxrgl
louttnbcqvnyrtnkqmfjwenHrwynwyjtjnwhqnrvkojvjgwtnyjnwcqwwj.ngqrtjojttox
uzqpwnwyjncqqv,ntqvjwrvjtntwqkkrgl,nqmmutrqguooxnfgjjorgl,nug.nqgmj
oxrglnbouwnpkqgnyrtnbumjenTqnjglcqttj.nhutnyjnhrwynyrtnqmmpkuwrqgnwyuw
yjnukkjucj.nwqnyusjnbqclqwwjgnqpcnkcjtjgmj,nbqcnyjnmyuwwjcj.nuhuxnwq
yrvtjobnpg.jcnyrtnzcjuwynwyjnhyqojnwrvj,nfjjkrglnpknuncpggrglnbrcj
qbnjamouvuwrqgt,nlcqugt,nhyrtwojt,nug.norwwojnmcrjtntplljtwrsjnqb
jgmqpculjvjgwnug.nqbnyqkjenUtnRnhuwmyj.nyrvnRnhutnrccjtrtwrzoxncjvrg.j.
qbnunkpcj-zoqq.j.nhjoo-wcurgj.nbqayqpg.nutnrwn.utyjtnzumfhuc.tnug.
bqchuc.tnwycqplynwyjnmqsjcw,nhyrgrglnrgnrwtnjuljcgjtt,npgwronrwnmqvjt
umcqttnwyjnoqtwntmjgwenBqcnwhjgwxnvrgpwjtnqcnvqcjnyjnmqgwrgpj.nyrt
cjtjucmyjt,nvjutpcrglnhrwynwyjnvqtwnjaumwnmucjnwyjn.rtwugmjnzjwhjjg
vucftnhyrmynhjcjnjgwrcjoxnrgsrtrzojnwqnvj,nug.nqmmutrqguooxnukkoxrglnyrt
wukjnwqnwyjnhuootnrgnugnjipuooxnrgmqvkcjyjgtrzojnvuggjcenRgnqgjnkoumj
yjnluwyjcj.npknsjcxnmucjbpooxnunorwwojnkrojnqbnlcjxn.ptwnbcqvnwyjnboqqc,
ug.nkumfj.nrwnuhuxnrgnugnjgsjoqkjenBrguoox,nyjnjauvrgj.nhrwynyrtnloutt
wyjnhqc.npkqgnwyjnhuoo,nlqrglnqsjcnjsjcxnojwwjcnqbnrwnhrwynwyjnvqtw
vrgpwjnjaumwgjttenWyrtn.qgj,nyjnukkjucj.nwqnzjntuwrtbrj.,nbqcnyj
cjkoumj.nyrtnwukjnug.nyrtnlouttnrgnyrtnkqmfjwe

“Wyjxntuxnwyuwnljgrptnrtnugnrgbrgrwjnmukumrwxnbqcnwufrglnkurgt,”nyj
cjvucfj.nhrwynuntvrojen“Rw’tnunsjcxnzu.n.jbrgrwrqg,nzpwnrwn.qjtnukkoxnwq
.jwjmwrsjnhqcfe”

Lcjltqgnug.nOjtwcu.jnyu.nhuwmyj.nwyjnvugqjpscjtn[9]nqbnwyjrcnuvuwjpc
mqvkugrqgnhrwynmqgtr.jcuzojnmpcrqtrwxnug.ntqvjnmqgwjvkwenWyjxnjsr.jgwox
buroj.nwqnukkcjmruwjnwyjnbumw,nhyrmynRnyu.nzjlpgnwqncjuordj,nwyuw
TyjcoqmfnYqovjt’ntvuoojtwnumwrqgtnhjcjnuoon.rcjmwj.nwqhuc.tntqvj
.jbrgrwjnug.nkcumwrmuonjg.e

“Hyuwn.qnxqpnwyrgfnqbnrw,ntrc?”nwyjxnzqwynutfj.e

“Rwnhqpo.nzjncqzzrglnxqpnqbnwyjnmcj.rwnqbnwyjnmutjnrbnRnhutnwqnkcjtpvj
wqnyjoknxqp,”ncjvucfj.nvxnbcrjg.en“Xqpnucjn.qrglntqnhjoongqhnwyuwnrw
hqpo.nzjnunkrwxnbqcnugxqgjnwqnrgwjcbjcje”nWyjcjnhutnunhqco.nqb
tucmutvnrgnyrtnsqrmjnutnyjntkqfjen“Rbnxqpnhroonojwnvjnfgqhnyqhnxqpc
rgsjtwrluwrqgtnlq,”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,n“Rntyuoonzjnyukkxnwqnlrsjnxqpnugxnyjok
RnmugenRgnwyjnvjugwrvjnRntyqpo.norfjnwqntkjufnwqnwyjnmqgtwuzojnhyqnbqpg.
wyjnzq.xenMugnxqpnlrsjnvjnyrtnguvjnug.nu..cjtt?”

Ojtwcu.jnlougmj.nuwnyrtngqwj-zqqfen“ qygnCugmj,”nyjntur.en“Yjnrtnqbb
.pwxngqhenXqpnhroonbrg.nyrvnuwn46,nUp.ojxnMqpcw,nFjggrglwqgnKucfnLuwje”

Yqovjtnwqqfnungqwjnqbnwyjnu..cjtte

“Mqvjnuoqgl,n.qmwqc,”nyjntur.;n“hjntyuoonlqnug.noqqfnyrvnpkenR’oonwjoo
xqpnqgjnwyrglnhyrmynvuxnyjoknxqpnrgnwyjnmutj,”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nwpcgrglnwq
wyjnwhqn.jwjmwrsjten“Wyjcjnyutnzjjgnvpc.jcn.qgj,nug.nwyjnvpc.jcjcnhutnu
vugenYjnhutnvqcjnwyugntranbjjwnyrly,nhutnrgnwyjnkcrvjnqbnorbj,nyu.
tvuoonbjjwnbqcnyrtnyjrlyw,nhqcjnmquctj,ntipucj-wqj.nzqqwtnug.ntvqfj.nu
WcrmyrgqkqoxnmrlucenYjnmuvjnyjcjnhrwynyrtnsrmwrvnrgnunbqpc-hyjjoj.nmuz,
hyrmynhutn.cuhgnzxnunyqctjnhrwynwycjjnqo.ntyqjtnug.nqgjngjhnqgjnqgnyrt
qbbnbqcjnojlenRgnuoonkcqzuzrorwxnwyjnvpc.jcjcnyu.nunboqcr.nbumj,nug.nwyj
brgljc-gurotnqbnyrtncrlywnyug.nhjcjncjvucfuzoxnoqglenWyjtjnucjnqgoxnu
bjhnrg.rmuwrqgt,nzpwnwyjxnvuxnuttrtwnxqpe”

Ojtwcu.jnug.nLcjltqgnlougmj.nuwnjumynqwyjcnhrwynugnrgmcj.poqptntvroje

“Rbnwyrtnvugnhutnvpc.jcj.,nyqhnhutnrwn.qgj?”nutfj.nwyjnbqcvjce

“Kqrtqg,”ntur.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnmpcwox,nug.ntwcq.jnqbben“Qgjnqwyjcnwyrgl,
Ojtwcu.j,”nyjnu..j.,nwpcgrglncqpg.nuwnwyjn.qqc:n“‘Cumyj,’nrtnwyjnLjcvug
bqcn‘cjsjglj;’ntqn.qg’wnoqtjnxqpcnwrvjnoqqfrglnbqcnVrttnCumyjoe”

HrwynhyrmynKucwyrugntyqwnyjnhuofj.nuhux,nojusrglnwyjnwhqncrsuot
qkjg-vqpwyj.nzjyrg.nyrve




MYUKWJCnRSenHYUWn QYGnCUGMJnYU.nWQnWJOOe


RWnhutnqgjnq’moqmfnhyjgnhjnojbwnGqen3,nOupcrtwqgnLuc.jgtenTyjcoqmf
Yqovjtnoj.nvjnwqnwyjngjucjtwnwjojlcukynqbbrmj,nhyjgmjnyjn.rtkuwmyj.nu
oqglnwjojlcuvenYjnwyjgnyuroj.nunmuz,nug.nqc.jcj.nwyjn.crsjcnwqnwufjnpt
wqnwyjnu..cjttnlrsjgnptnzxnOjtwcu.je

“Wyjcjnrtngqwyrglnorfjnbrctwnyug.njsr.jgmj,”nyjncjvucfj.;n“utnunvuwwjc
qbnbumw,nvxnvrg.nrtnjgwrcjoxnvu.jnpknpkqgnwyjnmutj,nzpwntwroonhjnvuxnut
hjoonojucgnuoonwyuwnrtnwqnzjnojucgj.e”

“Xqpnuvudjnvj,nYqovjt,”ntur.nRen“Tpcjoxnxqpnucjngqwnutntpcjnutnxqp
kcjwjg.nwqnzjnqbnuoonwyqtjnkucwrmpouctnhyrmynxqpnlusje”

“Wyjcj’tngqncqqvnbqcnunvrtwufj,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Wyjnsjcxnbrctwnwyrgl
hyrmynRnqztjcsj.nqgnuccrsrglnwyjcjnhutnwyuwnunmuznyu.nvu.jnwhqncpwtnhrwy
rwtnhyjjotnmoqtjnwqnwyjnmpczenGqh,npknwqnoutwngrlyw,nhjnyusjnyu.ngqncurg
bqcnunhjjf,ntqnwyuwnwyqtjnhyjjotnhyrmynojbwntpmynun.jjknrvkcjttrqgnvptw
yusjnzjjgnwyjcjn.pcrglnwyjngrlywenWyjcjnhjcjnwyjnvucftnqbnwyjnyqctj’t
yqqbt,nwqq,nwyjnqpworgjnqbnqgjnqbnhyrmynhutnbucnvqcjnmojucoxnmpwnwyug
wyuwnqbnwyjnqwyjcnwycjj,ntyqhrglnwyuwnwyuwnhutnungjhntyqjenTrgmjnwyjnmuz
hutnwyjcjnubwjcnwyjncurgnzjlug,nug.nhutngqwnwyjcjnuwnugxnwrvjn.pcrglnwyj
vqcgrgl--RnyusjnLcjltqg’tnhqc.nbqcnwyuw--rwnbqooqhtnwyuwnrwnvptwnyusj
zjjgnwyjcjn.pcrglnwyjngrlyw,nug.,nwyjcjbqcj,nwyuwnrwnzcqplywnwyqtjnwhq
rg.rsr.puotnwqnwyjnyqptje”

“Wyuwntjjvtntrvkojnjgqply,”ntur.nR;n“zpwnyqhnuzqpwnwyjnqwyjcnvug’t
yjrlyw?”

“Hyx,nwyjnyjrlywnqbnunvug,nrgngrgjnmutjtnqpwnqbnwjg,nmugnzjnwqo.nbcqv
wyjnojglwynqbnyrtntwcr.jenRwnrtnuntrvkojnmuompouwrqgnjgqply,nwyqply
wyjcjnrtngqnptjnvxnzqcrglnxqpnhrwynbrlpcjtenRnyu.nwyrtnbjooqh’tntwcr.j
zqwynqgnwyjnmouxnqpwtr.jnug.nqgnwyjn.ptwnhrwyrgenWyjgnRnyu.nunhuxnqb
myjmfrglnvxnmuompouwrqgenHyjgnunvugnhcrwjtnqgnunhuoo,nyrtnrgtwrgmwnoju.t
yrvnwqnhcrwjnuzqpwnwyjnojsjonqbnyrtnqhgnjxjtenGqhnwyuwnhcrwrglnhutn ptw
qsjcntranbjjwnbcqvnwyjnlcqpg.enRwnhutnmyro.’tnkouxe”

“Ug.nyrtnulj?”nRnutfj.e

“Hjoo,nrbnunvugnmugntwcr.jnbqpcnug.nu-yuobnbjjwnhrwyqpwnwyjntvuoojtw
jbbqcw,nyjnmug’wnzjniprwjnrgnwyjntjcjnug.nxjooqhenWyuwnhutnwyjnzcju.wy
qbnunkp..ojnqgnwyjnluc.jgnhuofnhyrmynyjnyu.njsr.jgwoxnhuofj.numcqtte
Kuwjgw-ojuwyjcnzqqwtnyu.nlqgjncqpg.,nug.nTipucj-wqjtnyu.nyqkkj.nqsjce
WyjcjnrtngqnvxtwjcxnuzqpwnrwnuwnuooenRnuvntrvkoxnukkoxrglnwqnqc.rgucx
orbjnunbjhnqbnwyqtjnkcjmjkwtnqbnqztjcsuwrqgnug.n.j.pmwrqgnhyrmynR
u.sqmuwj.nrgnwyuwnucwrmojenRtnwyjcjnugxwyrglnjotjnwyuwnkpddojtnxqp?”

“Wyjnbrgljcngurotnug.nwyjnWcrmyrgqkqox,”nRntplljtwj.e

“Wyjnhcrwrglnqgnwyjnhuoonhutn.qgjnhrwynunvug’tnbqcjbrgljcn.rkkj.nrg
zoqq.enVxnlouttnuooqhj.nvjnwqnqztjcsjnwyuwnwyjnkoutwjcnhutntorlywox
tmcuwmyj.nrgn.qrglnrw,nhyrmynhqpo.ngqwnyusjnzjjgnwyjnmutjnrbnwyjnvug’t
guronyu.nzjjgnwcrvvj.enRnluwyjcj.npkntqvjntmuwwjcj.nutynbcqvnwyjnboqqce
Rwnhutn.ucfnrgnmqoqpcnug.nboufjx--tpmynugnutynutnrtnqgoxnvu.jnzxnu
WcrmyrgqkqoxenRnyusjnvu.jnuntkjmruontwp.xnqbnmrlucnutyjt--rgnbumw,nR
yusjnhcrwwjgnunvqgqlcukynpkqgnwyjntpz jmwenRnbouwwjcnvxtjobnwyuwnRnmug
.rtwrglprtynuwnunlougmjnwyjnutynqbnugxnfgqhgnzcug.,njrwyjcnqbnmrluc
qcnqbnwqzummqenRwnrtn ptwnrgntpmyn.jwurotnwyuwnwyjntfrooj.n.jwjmwrsj
.rbbjctnbcqvnwyjnLcjltqgnug.nOjtwcu.jnwxkje”

“Ug.nwyjnboqcr.nbumj?”nRnutfj.e

“Uy,nwyuwnhutnunvqcjn.ucrglntyqw,nwyqplynRnyusjngqn.qpzwnwyuwnRnhut
crlywenXqpnvptwngqwnutfnvjnwyuwnuwnwyjnkcjtjgwntwuwjnqbnwyjnubburce”

Rnkuttj.nvxnyug.nqsjcnvxnzcqhen“Vxnyju.nrtnrgnunhyrco,”nRncjvucfj.;n“wyj
vqcjnqgjnwyrgftnqbnrwnwyjnvqcjnvxtwjcrqptnrwnlcqhtenYqhnmuvjnwyjtjnwhq
vjg--rbnwyjcjnhjcjnwhqnvjg--rgwqnugnjvkwxnyqptj?nHyuwnyutnzjmqvjnqbnwyj
muzvugnhyqn.cqsjnwyjv?nYqhnmqpo.nqgjnvugnmqvkjonugqwyjcnwqnwufjnkqrtqg?
Hyjcjn.r.nwyjnzoqq.nmqvjnbcqv?nHyuwnhutnwyjnqz jmwnqbnwyjnvpc.jcjc,
trgmjncqzzjcxnyu.ngqnkucwnrgnrw?nYqhnmuvjnwyjnhqvug’tncrglnwyjcj?nUzqsj
uoo,nhyxntyqpo.nwyjntjmqg.nvugnhcrwjnpknwyjnLjcvugnhqc.nCUMYJnzjbqcj
.jmuvkrgl?nRnmqgbjttnwyuwnRnmuggqwntjjnugxnkqttrzojnhuxnqbncjmqgmrorgl
uoonwyjtjnbumwte”

Vxnmqvkugrqgntvroj.nukkcqsrgloxe

“Xqpntpvnpknwyjn.rbbrmpowrjtnqbnwyjntrwpuwrqgntpmmrgmwoxnug.nhjoo,”nyj
tur.en“Wyjcjnrtnvpmynwyuwnrtntwroonqztmpcj,nwyqplynRnyusjniprwjnvu.jnpk
vxnvrg.nqgnwyjnvurgnbumwtenUtnwqnkqqcnOjtwcu.j’tn.rtmqsjcxnrwnhutntrvkox
unzorg.nrgwjg.j.nwqnkpwnwyjnkqormjnpkqgnunhcqglnwcumf,nzxntplljtwrgl
Tqmruortvnug.ntjmcjwntqmrjwrjtenRwnhutngqwn.qgjnzxnunLjcvugenWyjnU,nrb
xqpngqwrmj.,nhutnkcrgwj.ntqvjhyuwnubwjcnwyjnLjcvugnbutyrqgenGqh,nuncjuo
LjcvugnrgsucruzoxnkcrgwtnrgnwyjnOuwrgnmyucumwjc,ntqnwyuwnhjnvuxntubjox
tuxnwyuwnwyrtnhutngqwnhcrwwjgnzxnqgj,nzpwnzxnunmopvtxnrvrwuwqcnhyq
qsjc.r.nyrtnkucwenRwnhutntrvkoxnuncptjnwqn.rsjcwnrgiprcxnrgwqnunhcqgl
myuggjoenR’vngqwnlqrglnwqnwjoonxqpnvpmynvqcjnqbnwyjnmutj,n.qmwqcenXqp
fgqhnunmqg pcqcnljwtngqnmcj.rwnhyjgnqgmjnyjnyutnjakourgj.nyrtnwcrmf,
ug.nrbnRntyqhnxqpnwqqnvpmynqbnvxnvjwyq.nqbnhqcfrgl,nxqpnhroonmqvjnwqnwyj
mqgmoptrqgnwyuwnRnuvnunsjcxnqc.rgucxnrg.rsr.puonubwjcnuooe”

“Rntyuoongjsjcn.qnwyuw,”nRnugthjcj.;n“xqpnyusjnzcqplywn.jwjmwrqgnutngjuc
ugnjaumwntmrjgmjnutnrwnjsjcnhroonzjnzcqplywnrgnwyrtnhqco.e”

Vxnmqvkugrqgnboptyj.npknhrwynkojutpcjnuwnvxnhqc.t,nug.nwyjnjucgjtwnhux
rgnhyrmynRnpwwjcj.nwyjvenRnyu.nuocju.xnqztjcsj.nwyuwnyjnhutnutntjgtrwrsj
wqnbouwwjcxnqgnwyjntmqcjnqbnyrtnucwnutnugxnlrconmqpo.nzjnqbnyjcnzjupwxe

“R’oonwjoonxqpnqgjnqwyjcnwyrgl,”nyjntur.en“Kuwjgwnojuwyjctn[10]nug.
Tipucj-wqjtnmuvjnrgnwyjntuvjnmuz,nug.nwyjxnhuofj.n.qhgnwyjnkuwyhux
wqljwyjcnutnbcrjg.oxnutnkqttrzoj--ucv-rg-ucv,nrgnuoonkcqzuzrorwxe
Hyjgnwyjxnlqwnrgtr.jnwyjxnhuofj.npknug.n.qhgnwyjncqqv--qcncuwyjc,
Kuwjgw-ojuwyjctntwqq.ntwroonhyrojnTipucj-wqjtnhuofj.npknug.n.qhgenR
mqpo.ncju.nuoonwyuwnrgnwyjn.ptw;nug.nRnmqpo.ncju.nwyuwnutnyjnhuofj.nyj
lcjhnvqcjnug.nvqcjnjamrwj.enWyuwnrtntyqhgnzxnwyjnrgmcjutj.nojglwynqbnyrt
twcr.jtenYjnhutnwuofrglnuoonwyjnhyroj,nug.nhqcfrglnyrvtjobnpk,ngqn.qpzw,
rgwqnunbpcxenWyjgnwyjnwculj.xnqmmpccj.enR’sjnwqo.nxqpnuoonRnfgqhnvxtjob
gqh,nbqcnwyjncjtwnrtnvjcjntpcvrtjnug.nmqg jmwpcjenHjnyusjnunlqq.nhqcfrgl
zutrt,nyqhjsjc,nqgnhyrmynwqntwucwenHjnvptwnypccxnpk,nbqcnRnhugwnwqnlqnwq
Yuooj’tnmqgmjcwnwqnyjucnGqcvugnGjcp.unwyrtnubwjcgqqge”

Wyrtnmqgsjctuwrqgnyu.nqmmpccj.nhyrojnqpcnmuznyu.nzjjgnwycju.rglnrwtnhux
wycqplynunoqglntpmmjttrqgnqbn.rglxntwcjjwtnug.n.cjucxnzx-huxtenRgnwyj
.rglrjtwnug.n.cjucrjtwnqbnwyjvnqpcn.crsjcntp..jgoxnmuvjnwqnuntwug.e
“Wyuw’tnUp.ojxnMqpcwnrgnwyjcj,”nyjntur.,nkqrgwrglnwqnunguccqhntorwnrg
wyjnorgjnqbn.ju.-mqoqpcj.nzcrmfen“Xqp’oonbrg.nvjnyjcjnhyjgnxqpnmqvj
zumfe”

Up.ojxnMqpcwnhutngqwnugnuwwcumwrsjnoqmuorwxenWyjnguccqhnkuttuljnoj.npt
rgwqnunipu.cuglojnkusj.nhrwynboultnug.norgj.nzxntqc.r.n.hjoorgltenHj
krmfj.nqpcnhuxnuvqglnlcqpktnqbn.rcwxnmyro.cjg,nug.nwycqplynorgjtnqb
.rtmqoqpcj.norgjg,npgwronhjnmuvjnwqnGpvzjcn46,nwyjn.qqcnqbnhyrmy
hutn.jmqcuwj.nhrwynuntvuoontorknqbnzcuttnqgnhyrmynwyjnguvjnCugmjnhut
jglcusj.enQgnjgiprcxnhjnbqpg.nwyuwnwyjnmqgtwuzojnhutnrgnzj.,nug.nhjnhjcj
tyqhgnrgwqnunorwwojnbcqgwnkucoqpcnwqnuhurwnyrtnmqvrgle

Yjnukkjucj.nkcjtjgwox,noqqfrglnunorwwojnrccrwuzojnuwnzjrgln.rtwpczj.nrg
yrtntopvzjcten“Rnvu.jnvxncjkqcwnuwnwyjnqbbrmj,”nyjntur.e

Yqovjtnwqqfnunyuob-tqsjcjrlgnbcqvnyrtnkqmfjwnug.nkouxj.nhrwynrw
kjgtrsjoxen“Hjnwyqplywnwyuwnhjntyqpo.norfjnwqnyjucnrwnuoonbcqvnxqpcnqhg
orkt,”nyjntur.e

“RntyuoonzjnvqtwnyukkxnwqnwjoonxqpnugxwyrglnRnmug,”nwyjnmqgtwuzoj
ugthjcj.nhrwynyrtnjxjtnpkqgnwyjnorwwojnlqo.jgn.rtfe

“ ptwnojwnptnyjucnrwnuoonrgnxqpcnqhgnhuxnutnrwnqmmpccj.e”

Cugmjntuwn.qhgnqgnwyjnyqctjyurcntqbu,nug.nfgrwwj.nyrtnzcqhtnutnwyqply
.jwjcvrgj.ngqwnwqnqvrwnugxwyrglnrgnyrtnguccuwrsje

“R’oonwjoonrwnxjnbcqvnwyjnzjlrggrgl,”nyjntur.en“Vxnwrvjnrtnbcqvnwjgnuw
grlywnwqntranrgnwyjnvqcgrglenUwnjojsjgnwyjcjnhutnunbrlywnuwnwyjn‘Hyrwj
Yucw’;nzpwnzucnwyuwnuoonhutniprjwnjgqplynqgnwyjnzjuwenUwnqgjnq’moqmfnrw
zjlugnwqncurg,nug.nRnvjwnYuccxnVpcmyjc--yrvnhyqnyutnwyjnYqooug.nLcqsj
zjuw--ug.nhjntwqq.nwqljwyjcnuwnwyjnmqcgjcnqbnYjgcrjwwunTwcjjwnu-wuofrg’e
Kcjtjgwox--vuxzjnuzqpwnwhqnqcnunorwwojnubwjc--RnwyqplywnRnhqpo.nwufj
unoqqfncqpg.nug.ntjjnwyuwnuoonhutncrlywn.qhgnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.enRwnhut
kcjmrqptn.rcwxnug.noqgjoxenGqwnuntqpon.r.nRnvjjwnuoonwyjnhuxn.qhg,
wyqplynunmuznqcnwhqnhjgwnkutwnvjenRnhutnuntwcqoorg’n.qhg,nwyrgfrg’
zjwhjjgnqpctjosjtnyqhnpgmqvvqgnyug.xnunbqpcnqbnlrgnyqwnhqpo.nzj,nhyjg
tp..jgoxnwyjnlorgwnqbnunorlywnmuplywnvxnjxjnrgnwyjnhrg.qhnqbnwyuwntuvj
yqptjenGqh,nRnfgjhnwyuwnwyjvnwhqnyqptjtnrgnOupcrtwqgnLuc.jgtnhutnjvkwx
qgnummqpgwnqbnyrvnwyuwnqhgtnwyjvnhyqnhqg’wnyusjnwyjn.curgtntjjgnwq,
wyqplynwyjnsjcxnoutwnwjgugwnhyuwnorsj.nrgnqgjnqbnwyjvn.rj.nq’nwxkyqr.
bjsjcenRnhutnfgqmfj.nuoonrgnunyjuknwyjcjbqcjnuwntjjrglnunorlywnrg
wyjnhrg.qh,nug.nRntptkjmwj.nutntqvjwyrglnhutnhcqglenHyjgnRnlqwnwqnwyj
.qqc----”

“Xqpntwqkkj.,nug.nwyjgnhuofj.nzumfnwqnwyjnluc.jgnluwj,”nvxnmqvkugrqg
rgwjccpkwj.en“Hyuwn.r.nxqpn.qnwyuwnbqc?”

Cugmjnlusjnunsrqojgwn pvk,nug.ntwucj.nuwnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnhrwynwyjnpwvqtw
uvudjvjgwnpkqgnyrtnbjuwpcjte

“Hyx,nwyuw’tnwcpj,ntrc,”nyjntur.;n“wyqplynyqhnxqpnmqvjnwqnfgqhnrw,
YjusjgnqgoxnfgqhtenXjntjj,nhyjgnRnlqwnpknwqnwyjn.qqcnrwnhutntqntwroonug.
tqnoqgjtqvj,nwyuwnRnwyqplywnR’.nzjngqgjnwyjnhqctjnbqcntqvjnqgjnhrwynvje
Rnurg’wnubjucj.nqbnugxwyrglnqgnwyrtntr.jnq’nwyjnlcusj;nzpwnRnwyqplyw
wyuwnvuxzjnrwnhutnyrvnwyuwn.rj.nq’nwyjnwxkyqr.nrgtkjmwrglnwyjn.curgt
hyuwnfrooj.nyrvenWyjnwyqplywnlusjnvjnunfrg.nq’nwpcg,nug.nRnhuofj.nzumf
wqnwyjnluwjnwqntjjnrbnRnmqpo.ntjjnVpcmyjc’tnougwjcg,nzpwnwyjcjnhutg’wngq
trlgnqbnyrvngqcnqbnugxqgjnjotje”

“Wyjcjnhutngqnqgjnrgnwyjntwcjjw?”

“Gqwnunorsrg’ntqpo,ntrc,ngqcnutnvpmynutnun.qlenWyjgnRnkpooj.nvxtjob
wqljwyjcnug.nhjgwnzumfnug.nkptyj.nwyjn.qqcnqkjgenUoonhutniprjwnrgtr.j,
tqnRnhjgwnrgwqnwyjncqqvnhyjcjnwyjnorlywnhutnu-zpcgrg’enWyjcjnhutnu
mug.ojnbormfjcrg’nqgnwyjnvugwjokrjmj--uncj.nhuanqgj--ug.nzxnrwtnorlywnR
tuh----”

“Xjt,nRnfgqhnuoonwyuwnxqpntuhenXqpnhuofj.ncqpg.nwyjncqqvntjsjcuonwrvjt,
ug.nxqpnfgjown.qhgnzxnwyjnzq.x,nug.nwyjgnxqpnhuofj.nwycqplynug.nwcrj.
wyjnfrwmyjgn.qqc,nug.nwyjg----”

 qygnCugmjntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjwnhrwynunbcrlywjgj.nbumjnug.ntptkrmrqgnrg
yrtnjxjten“Hyjcjnhutnxqpnyr.nwqntjjnuoonwyuw?”nyjnmcrj.en“Rwntjjvtnwqnvj
wyuwnxqpnfgqhtnun.juonvqcjnwyugnxqpntyqpo.e”

Yqovjtnouplyj.nug.nwycjhnyrtnmuc.numcqttnwyjnwuzojnwqnwyjnmqgtwuzoje
“.qg’wnljwnuccjtwrglnvjnbqcnwyjnvpc.jc,”nyjntur.en“Rnuvnqgjnqbnwyj
yqpg.tnug.ngqwnwyjnhqob;nVcenLcjltqgnqcnVcenOjtwcu.jnhroonugthjcnbqc
wyuwenLqnqg,nwyqplyenHyuwn.r.nxqpn.qngjaw?”

Cugmjncjtpvj.nyrtntjuw,nhrwyqpwnyqhjsjcnoqtrglnyrtnvxtwrbrj.njakcjttrqge
“Rnhjgwnzumfnwqnwyjnluwjnug.ntqpg.j.nvxnhyrtwojenWyuwnzcqplywnVpcmyjc
ug.nwhqnvqcjnwqnwyjntkqwe”

“Hutnwyjntwcjjwnjvkwxnwyjg?”

“Hjoo,nrwnhut,nutnbucnutnugxzq.xnwyuwnmqpo.nzjnqbnugxnlqq.nlqjte”

“Hyuwn.qnxqpnvjug?”

Wyjnmqgtwuzoj’tnbjuwpcjtnzcqu.jgj.nrgwqnunlcrgen“R’sjntjjgnvugxnun.cpgf
myuknrgnvxnwrvj,”nyjntur.,n“zpwngjsjcnugxqgjntqnmcxrg’n.cpgfnut
wyuwnmqsjenYjnhutnuwnwyjnluwjnhyjgnRnmuvjnqpw,nu-ojugrg’npknulrgnwyj
curorglt,nug.nu-trglrg’nuwnwyjnkrwmynq’nyrtnopgltnuzqpwnMqopvzrgj’t
Gjh-bugloj.nZuggjc,nqcntqvjntpmyntwpbbenYjnmqpo.g’wntwug.,nbucnojtt
yjoke”

“Hyuwntqcwnqbnunvugnhutnyj?”nutfj.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjte

 qygnCugmjnukkjucj.nwqnzjntqvjhyuwnrccrwuwj.nuwnwyrtn.rlcjttrqgen“Yjnhut
ugnpgmqvvqgn.cpgfntqcwnq’nvug,”nyjntur.en“Yj’.nyu’nbqpg.nyrttjobnrgnwyj
twuwrqgnrbnhjnyu.g’wnzjjgntqnwqqfnpke”

“Yrtnbumj--yrtn.cjtt--.r.g’wnxqpngqwrmjnwyjv?”nYqovjtnzcqfjnrg
rvkuwrjgwoxe

“Rntyqpo.nwyrgfnRn.r.ngqwrmjnwyjv,ntjjrglnwyuwnRnyu.nwqnkcqknyrvnpk--vj
ug.nVpcmyjcnzjwhjjgnptenYjnhutnunoqglnmyuk,nhrwynuncj.nbumj,nwyjnoqhjc
kucwnvpbboj.ncqpg.----”

“Wyuwnhroon.q,”nmcrj.nYqovjten“Hyuwnzjmuvjnqbnyrv?”

“Hj’.njgqplynwqn.qnhrwyqpwnoqqfrg’nubwjcnyrv,”nwyjnkqormjvugntur.,nrgnug
ullcrjsj.nsqrmjen“R’oonhuljcnyjnbqpg.nyrtnhuxnyqvjnuooncrlywe”

“Yqhnhutnyjn.cjttj.?”

“Unzcqhgnqsjcmquwe”

“Yu.nyjnunhyrknrgnyrtnyug.?”

“Unhyrk--gqe”

“Yjnvptwnyusjnojbwnrwnzjyrg.,”nvpwwjcj.nvxnmqvkugrqgen“Xqpn.r.g’wnyukkjg
wqntjjnqcnyjucnunmuznubwjcnwyuw?”

“Gqe”

“Wyjcj’tnunyuob-tqsjcjrlgnbqcnxqp,”nvxnmqvkugrqgntur.,ntwug.rglnpknug.
wufrglnyrtnyuwen“Rnuvnubcur.,nCugmj,nwyuwnxqpnhroongjsjcncrtjnrgnwyj
bqcmjenWyuwnyju.nqbnxqpctntyqpo.nzjnbqcnptjnutnhjoonutnqcguvjgwenXqp
vrlywnyusjnlurgj.nxqpcntjcljugw’tntwcrkjtnoutwngrlywenWyjnvugnhyqvnxqp
yjo.nrgnxqpcnyug.tnrtnwyjnvugnhyqnyqo.tnwyjnmopjnqbnwyrtnvxtwjcx,nug.
hyqvnhjnucjntjjfrglenWyjcjnrtngqnptjnqbnuclprglnuzqpwnrwngqh;nRnwjoonxqp
wyuwnrwnrtntqenMqvjnuoqgl,n.qmwqce”

Hjntwucwj.nqbbnbqcnwyjnmuznwqljwyjc,nojusrglnqpcnrgbqcvugwnrgmcj.poqpt,
zpwnqzsrqptoxnpgmqvbqcwuzoje

“Wyjnzopg.jcrglnbqqo,”nYqovjtntur.,nzrwwjcox,nutnhjn.cqsjnzumfnwqnqpc
oq.lrglten“ ptwnwqnwyrgfnqbnyrtnyusrglntpmynugnrgmqvkucuzojnzrwnqbnlqq.
opmf,nug.ngqwnwufrglnu.sugwuljnqbnrwe”

“Rnuvncuwyjcnrgnwyjn.ucfntwrooenRwnrtnwcpjnwyuwnwyjn.jtmcrkwrqgnqbnwyrt
vugnwuoorjtnhrwynxqpcnr.junqbnwyjntjmqg.nkucwxnrgnwyrtnvxtwjcxenZpwnhyx
tyqpo.nyjnmqvjnzumfnwqnwyjnyqptjnubwjcnojusrglnrw?nWyuwnrtngqwnwyjnhux
qbnmcrvrguote”

“Wyjncrgl,nvug,nwyjncrgl:nwyuwnhutnhyuwnyjnmuvjnzumfnbqcenRbnhjnyusjngq
qwyjcnhuxnqbnmuwmyrglnyrv,nhjnmugnuohuxtnzurwnqpcnorgjnhrwynwyjncrglenR
tyuoonyusjnyrv,n.qmwqc--R’oonouxnxqpnwhqnwqnqgjnwyuwnRnyusjnyrvenRnvptw
wyugfnxqpnbqcnrwnuooenRnvrlywngqwnyusjnlqgjnzpwnbqcnxqp,nug.ntqnyusj
vrttj.nwyjnbrgjtwntwp.xnRnjsjcnmuvjnumcqtt:nuntwp.xnrgntmucojw,njy?
Hyxntyqpo.g’wnhjnptjnunorwwojnucwn uclqgenWyjcj’tnwyjntmucojwnwycju.nqb
vpc.jcncpggrglnwycqplynwyjnmqoqpcojttntfjrgnqbnorbj,nug.nqpcn.pwxnrt
wqnpgcusjonrw,nug.nrtqouwjnrw,nug.njakqtjnjsjcxnrgmynqbnrwenUg.ngqh
bqcnopgmy,nug.nwyjgnbqcnGqcvugnGjcp.uenYjcnuwwumfnug.nyjcnzqhrgl
ucjntkojg.r.enHyuw’tnwyuwnorwwojnwyrglnqbnMyqkrg’tntyjnkouxtntq
vulgrbrmjgwox:nWcu-ou-ou-orcu-orcu-ouxe”

Ojugrglnzumfnrgnwyjnmuz,nwyrtnuvuwjpcnzoqq.yqpg.nmucqooj.nuhuxnorfjnu
oucfnhyrojnRnvj.rwuwj.npkqgnwyjnvugx-tr.j.gjttnqbnwyjnypvugnvrg.e




MYUKWJCnSenQPCnU.SJCWRTJVJGWnZCRGLTnUnSRTRWQCe


QPCnvqcgrgl’tnjajcwrqgtnyu.nzjjgnwqqnvpmynbqcnvxnhjufnyjuowy,nug.nRnhut
wrcj.nqpwnrgnwyjnubwjcgqqgenUbwjcnYqovjt’n.jkucwpcjnbqcnwyjnmqgmjcw,nR
ouxn.qhgnpkqgnwyjntqbunug.njg.jusqpcj.nwqnljwnunmqpkojnqbnyqpct’ntojjke
RwnhutnunptjojttnuwwjvkwenVxnvrg.nyu.nzjjgnwqqnvpmynjamrwj.nzxnuoonwyuw
yu.nqmmpccj.,nug.nwyjntwcugljtwnbugmrjtnug.ntpcvrtjtnmcqh.j.nrgwq
rwenJsjcxnwrvjnwyuwnRnmoqtj.nvxnjxjtnRntuhnzjbqcjnvjnwyjn.rtwqcwj.
zuzqqg-orfjnmqpgwjgugmjnqbnwyjnvpc.jcj.nvugenTqntrgrtwjcnhutnwyj
rvkcjttrqgnhyrmynwyuwnbumjnyu.nkcq.pmj.npkqgnvjnwyuwnRnbqpg.nrw
.rbbrmpownwqnbjjonugxwyrglnzpwnlcuwrwp.jnbqcnyrvnhyqnyu.ncjvqsj.nrwt
qhgjcnbcqvnwyjnhqco.enRbnjsjcnypvugnbjuwpcjtnzjtkqfjnsrmjnqbnwyjnvqtw
vuorlgugwnwxkj,nwyjxnhjcjnmjcwurgoxnwyqtjnqbnJgqmyn en.cjzzjc,nqb
Mojsjoug.enTwroonRncjmqlgrdj.nwyuwn ptwrmjnvptwnzjn.qgj,nug.nwyuwnwyj
.jkcusrwxnqbnwyjnsrmwrvnhutngqnmqg.qgvjgwn[11]nrgnwyjnjxjtnqbnwyjnouhe

WyjnvqcjnRnwyqplywnqbnrwnwyjnvqcjnjawcuqc.rgucxn.r.nvxnmqvkugrqg’t
yxkqwyjtrt,nwyuwnwyjnvugnyu.nzjjgnkqrtqgj.,nukkjucenRncjvjvzjcj.nyqhnyj
yu.ntgrbbj.nyrtnorkt,nug.nyu.ngqn.qpzwnwyuwnyjnyu.n.jwjmwj.ntqvjwyrgl
hyrmynyu.nlrsjgncrtjnwqnwyjnr.juenWyjg,nulurg,nrbngqwnkqrtqg,nhyuw
yu.nmuptj.nwyjnvug’tn.juwy,ntrgmjnwyjcjnhutngjrwyjcnhqpg.ngqcnvucftnqb
twcuglpouwrqg?nZpw,nqgnwyjnqwyjcnyug.,nhyqtjnzoqq.nhutnwyuwnhyrmynouxntq
wyrmfoxnpkqgnwyjnboqqc?nWyjcjnhjcjngqntrlgtnqbnuntwcplloj,ngqcnyu.nwyj
srmwrvnugxnhjukqgnhrwynhyrmynyjnvrlywnyusjnhqpg.j.nugnugwulqgrtwenUt
oqglnutnuoonwyjtjnipjtwrqgtnhjcjnpgtqosj.,nRnbjownwyuwntojjknhqpo.nzj
gqnjutxnvuwwjc,njrwyjcnbqcnYqovjtnqcnvxtjobenYrtniprjwntjob-mqgbr.jgw
vuggjcnmqgsrgmj.nvjnwyuwnyjnyu.nuocju.xnbqcvj.nunwyjqcxnhyrmynjakourgj.
uoonwyjnbumwt,nwyqplynhyuwnrwnhutnRnmqpo.ngqwnbqcnugnrgtwugwnmqg jmwpcje

Yjnhutnsjcxnouwjnrgncjwpcgrgl--tqnouwj,nwyuwnRnfgjhnwyuwnwyjnmqgmjcw
mqpo.ngqwnyusjn.jwurgj.nyrvnuoonwyjnwrvjen.rggjcnhutnqgnwyjnwuzojnzjbqcj
yjnukkjucj.e

“Rwnhutnvulgrbrmjgw,”nyjntur.,nutnyjnwqqfnyrtntjuwen“.qnxqpncjvjvzjc
hyuwn.uchrgntuxtnuzqpwnvptrm?nYjnmourvtnwyuwnwyjnkqhjcnqbnkcq.pmrglnug.
ukkcjmruwrglnrwnjartwj.nuvqglnwyjnypvugncumjnoqglnzjbqcjnwyjnkqhjcnqb
tkjjmynhutnuccrsj.nuwenKjcyuktnwyuwnrtnhyxnhjnucjntqntpzwoxnrgbopjgmj.
zxnrwenWyjcjnucjnsulpjnvjvqcrjtnrgnqpcntqpotnqbnwyqtjnvrtwxnmjgwpcrjt
hyjgnwyjnhqco.nhutnrgnrwtnmyro.yqq.e”

“Wyuw’tncuwyjcnunzcqu.nr.ju,”nRncjvucfj.e

“Qgj’tnr.jutnvptwnzjnutnzcqu.nutnGuwpcjnrbnwyjxnucjnwqnrgwjckcjw
Guwpcj,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Hyuw’tnwyjnvuwwjc?nXqp’cjngqwnoqqfrglniprwj
xqpctjobenWyrtnZcrawqgnCqu.nubburcnyutnpktjwnxqpe”

“Wqnwjoonwyjnwcpwy,nrwnyut,”nRntur.en“Rnqplywnwqnzjnvqcjnmutj-yuc.jgj.
ubwjcnvxnUblyugnjakjcrjgmjtenRntuhnvxnqhgnmqvcu.jtnyumfj.nwqnkrjmjtnuw
Vurhug.nhrwyqpwnoqtrglnvxngjcsje”

“Rnmugnpg.jctwug.enWyjcjnrtnunvxtwjcxnuzqpwnwyrtnhyrmyntwrvpouwjtnwyj
rvulrguwrqg;nhyjcjnwyjcjnrtngqnrvulrguwrqgnwyjcjnrtngqnyqccqcenYusjnxqp
tjjgnwyjnjsjgrglnkukjc?”

“Gqe”

“Rwnlrsjtnunburcoxnlqq.nummqpgwnqbnwyjnubburcenRwn.qjtngqwnvjgwrqgnwyj
bumwnwyuwnhyjgnwyjnvugnhutncurtj.npk,nunhqvug’tnhj..rglncrglnbjoonpkqg
wyjnboqqcenRwnrtn ptwnutnhjoonrwn.qjtngqwe”

“Hyx?”

“Oqqfnuwnwyrtnu.sjcwrtjvjgw,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Rnyu.nqgjntjgwnwqnjsjcx
kukjcnwyrtnvqcgrglnrvvj.ruwjoxnubwjcnwyjnubburce”

Yjnwycjhnwyjnkukjcnumcqttnwqnvjnug.nRnlougmj.nuwnwyjnkoumjnrg.rmuwj.enRw
hutnwyjnbrctwnuggqpgmjvjgwnrgnwyjn“Bqpg.”nmqopvgen“RgnZcrawqgnCqu.,
wyrtnvqcgrgl,”nrwncug,n“unkourgnlqo.nhj..rglncrgl,nbqpg.nrgnwyjncqu.hux
zjwhjjgnwyjn‘HyrwjnYucw’nWusjcgnug.nYqooug.nLcqsjenUkkoxn.cenHuwtqg,
221Z,nZufjcnTwcjjw,nzjwhjjgnjrlywnug.ngrgjnwyrtnjsjgrgle”

“Jamptjnvxnptrglnxqpcnguvj,”nyjntur.en“RbnRnptj.nvxnqhgntqvjnqbnwyjtj
.pg.jcyju.tnhqpo.ncjmqlgrdjnrw,nug.nhugwnwqnvj..ojnrgnwyjnubburce”

“Wyuwnrtnuooncrlyw,”nRnugthjcj.en“Zpwntpkkqtrglnugxqgjnukkorjt,nRnyusj
gqncrgle”

“Qynxjt,nxqpnyusj,”ntur.nyj,nyug.rglnvjnqgjen“Wyrtnhroon.qnsjcxnhjooenRw
rtnuovqtwnunbumtrvroje”

“Ug.nhyqn.qnxqpnjakjmwnhroonugthjcnwyrtnu.sjcwrtjvjgwe”

“Hyx,nwyjnvugnrgnwyjnzcqhgnmquw--qpcnboqcr.nbcrjg.nhrwynwyjntipucjnwqjte
Rbnyjn.qjtngqwnmqvjnyrvtjobnyjnhroontjg.nugnummqvkormje”

“Hqpo.nyjngqwnmqgtr.jcnrwnutnwqqn.ugljcqpt?”

“GqwnuwnuooenRbnvxnsrjhnqbnwyjnmutjnrtnmqccjmw,nug.nRnyusjnjsjcxncjutqg
wqnzjorjsjnwyuwnrwnrt,nwyrtnvugnhqpo.ncuwyjcncrtfnugxwyrglnwyugnoqtjnwyj
crglenUmmqc.rglnwqnvxngqwrqgnyjn.cqkkj.nrwnhyrojntwqqkrglnqsjcn.cjzzjc’t
zq.x,nug.n.r.ngqwnvrttnrwnuwnwyjnwrvjenUbwjcnojusrglnwyjnyqptjnyj
.rtmqsjcj.nyrtnoqttnug.nypccrj.nzumf,nzpwnbqpg.nwyjnkqormjnuocju.xnrg
kqttjttrqg,nqhrglnwqnyrtnqhgnbqooxnrgnojusrglnwyjnmug.ojnzpcgrglenYjnyu.
wqnkcjwjg.nwqnzjn.cpgfnrgnqc.jcnwqnuoouxnwyjntptkrmrqgtnhyrmynvrlywnyusj
zjjgnucqptj.nzxnyrtnukkjucugmjnuwnwyjnluwjenGqhnkpwnxqpctjobnrgnwyuw
vug’tnkoumjenQgnwyrgfrglnwyjnvuwwjcnqsjc,nrwnvptwnyusjnqmmpccj.nwqnyrv
wyuwnrwnhutnkqttrzojnwyuwnyjnyu.noqtwnwyjncrglnrgnwyjncqu.nubwjcnojusrgl
wyjnyqptjenHyuwnhqpo.nyjn.q,nwyjg?nYjnhqpo.njuljcoxnoqqfnqpwnbqcnwyj
jsjgrglnkukjctnrgnwyjnyqkjnqbntjjrglnrwnuvqglnwyjnucwrmojtnbqpg.enYrt
jxj,nqbnmqpctj,nhqpo.norlywnpkqgnwyrtenYjnhqpo.nzjnqsjc qxj.enHyxntyqpo.
yjnbjucnunwcuk?nWyjcjnhqpo.nzjngqncjutqgnrgnyrtnjxjtnhyxnwyjnbrg.rgl
qbnwyjncrglntyqpo.nzjnmqggjmwj.nhrwynwyjnvpc.jcenYjnhqpo.nmqvjenYjnhroo
mqvjenXqpntyuoontjjnyrvnhrwyrgnugnyqpc?”

“Ug.nwyjg?”nRnutfj.e

“Qy,nxqpnmugnojusjnvjnwqn.juonhrwynyrvnwyjgenYusjnxqpnugxnucvt?”

“Rnyusjnvxnqo.ntjcsrmjncjsqosjcnug.nunbjhnmucwcr.ljte”

“Xqpnyu.nzjwwjcnmojugnrwnug.noqu.nrwenYjnhroonzjnun.jtkjcuwjnvug,
ug.nwyqplynRntyuoonwufjnyrvnpguhucjt,nrwnrtnutnhjoonwqnzjncju.xnbqc
ugxwyrgle”

Rnhjgwnwqnvxnzj.cqqvnug.nbqooqhj.nyrtnu.srmjenHyjgnRncjwpcgj.nhrwy
wyjnkrtwqonwyjnwuzojnyu.nzjjgnmojucj.,nug.nYqovjtnhutnjglulj.nrgnyrt
busqpcrwjnqmmpkuwrqgnqbntmcukrglnpkqgnyrtnsrqorge

“Wyjnkoqwnwyrmfjgt,”nyjntur.,nutnRnjgwjcj.;n“Rnyusjn ptwnyu.nugnugthjc
wqnvxnUvjcrmugnwjojlcuvenVxnsrjhnqbnwyjnmutjnrtnwyjnmqccjmwnqgje”

“Ug.nwyuwnrt?”nRnutfj.njuljcoxe

“Vxnbr..ojnhqpo.nzjnwyjnzjwwjcnbqcngjhntwcrglt,”nyjncjvucfj.en“Kpwnxqpc
krtwqonrgnxqpcnkqmfjwenHyjgnwyjnbjooqhnmqvjtntkjufnwqnyrvnrgnugnqc.rgucx
huxenOjusjnwyjncjtwnwqnvjen.qg’wnbcrlywjgnyrvnzxnoqqfrglnuwnyrvnwqq
yuc.e”

“Rwnrtnjrlywnq’moqmfngqh,”nRntur.,nlougmrglnuwnvxnhuwmye

“XjtenYjnhroonkcqzuzoxnzjnyjcjnrgnunbjhnvrgpwjtenQkjgnwyjn.qqcntorlywoxe
Wyuwnhroon.qenGqhnkpwnwyjnfjxnqgnwyjnrgtr.jenWyugfnxqp!nWyrtnrtnu
ipjjcnqo.nzqqfnRnkrmfj.npknuwnuntwuoonxjtwjc.ux--‘.jn pcjnrgwjc
Ljgwjt’--kpzortyj.nrgnOuwrgnuwnOrjljnrgnwyjnOqhoug.t,nrgn1642enMyucojt’
yju.nhutntwroonbrcvnqgnyrtntyqpo.jctnhyjgnwyrtnorwwojnzcqhg-zumfj.
sqopvjnhutntwcpmfnqbbe”

“Hyqnrtnwyjnkcrgwjc?”

“Kyrorkkjn.jnMcqx,nhyqjsjcnyjnvuxnyusjnzjjgenQgnwyjnbox-ojub,nrgnsjcx
bu.j.nrgf,nrtnhcrwwjgn‘JanorzcrtnLporqovrnHyxwje’nRnhqg.jcnhyqnHrooruv
HyxwjnhutenTqvjnkculvuwrmuontjsjgwjjgwynmjgwpcxnouhxjc,nRntpkkqtjenYrt
hcrwrglnyutnunojluonwhrtwnuzqpwnrwenYjcjnmqvjtnqpcnvug,nRnwyrgfe”

UtnyjntkqfjnwyjcjnhutnuntyuckncrglnuwnwyjnzjooenTyjcoqmfnYqovjtncqtj
tqbwoxnug.nvqsj.nyrtnmyurcnrgnwyjn.rcjmwrqgnqbnwyjn.qqcenHjnyjuc.nwyj
tjcsugwnkuttnuoqglnwyjnyuoo,nug.nwyjntyucknmormfnqbnwyjnouwmynutntyj
qkjgj.nrwe

“.qjtn.cenHuwtqgnorsjnyjcj?”nutfj.nunmojucnzpwncuwyjcnyuctynsqrmjenHj
mqpo.ngqwnyjucnwyjntjcsugw’tncjkox,nzpwnwyjn.qqcnmoqtj.,nug.ntqvjnqgj
zjlugnwqnutmjg.nwyjntwurctenWyjnbqqwbuoonhutnugnpgmjcwurgnug.ntypbborgl
qgjenUnoqqfnqbntpckcrtjnkuttj.nqsjcnwyjnbumjnqbnvxnmqvkugrqgnutnyj
ortwjgj.nwqnrwenRwnmuvjntoqhoxnuoqglnwyjnkuttulj,nug.nwyjcjnhutnunbjjzoj
wuknuwnwyjn.qqce

“Mqvjnrg,”nRnmcrj.e

Uwnvxntpvvqgt,nrgtwju.nqbnwyjnvugnqbnsrqojgmjnhyqvnhjnjakjmwj.,nunsjcx
qo.nug.nhcrgfoj.nhqvugnyqzzoj.nrgwqnwyjnukucwvjgwenTyjnukkjucj.nwqnzj
.uddoj.nzxnwyjntp..jgnzoudjnqbnorlyw,nug.nubwjcn.cqkkrglnunmpcwtjx,ntyj
twqq.nzorgfrglnuwnptnhrwynyjcnzojucj.njxjtnug.nbpvzorglnrgnyjcnkqmfjw
hrwyngjcsqpt,ntyufxnbrgljctenRnlougmj.nuwnvxnmqvkugrqg,nug.nyrtnbumj
yu.nuttpvj.ntpmynun.rtmqgtqouwjnjakcjttrqgnwyuwnrwnhutnuoonRnmqpo.n.qnwq
fjjknvxnmqpgwjgugmje

Wyjnqo.nmcqgjn.cjhnqpwnugnjsjgrglnkukjc,nug.nkqrgwj.nuwnqpc
u.sjcwrtjvjgwen“Rw’tnwyrtnutnyutnzcqplywnvj,nlqq.nljgwojvjg,”ntyjntur.,
.cqkkrglnugqwyjcnmpcwtjx;n“unlqo.nhj..rglncrglnrgnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.enRw
zjoqgltnwqnvxnlrconTuoox,nutnhutnvuccrj.nqgoxnwyrtnwrvjnwhjosjvqgwy,
hyrmynyjcnyptzug.nrtntwjhuc.nuzquc.nunPgrqgnzquw,nug.nhyuwnyj’.ntuxnrb
yjnmqvjn‘qvjnug.nbqpg.nyjcnhrwyqpwnyjcncrglnrtnvqcjnwyugnRnmugnwyrgf,nyj
zjrglntyqcwnjgqplynuwnwyjnzjtwnq’nwrvjt,nzpwnvqcjnjtkjmruooxnhyjgnyj
yutnwyjn.crgfenRbnrwnkojutjnxqp,ntyjnhjgwnwqnwyjnmrcmptnoutwngrlywnuoqgl
hrwy----”

“Rtnwyuwnyjcncrgl?”nRnutfj.e

“WyjnOqc.nzjnwyugfj.!”nmcrj.nwyjnqo.nhqvug;n“Tuooxnhroonzjnunlou.nhqvug
wyrtngrlywenWyuw’tnwyjncrgle”

“Ug.nhyuwnvuxnxqpcnu..cjttnzj?”nRnrgiprcj.,nwufrglnpknunkjgmroe

“13,n.pgmugnTwcjjw,nYqpg.t.rwmyenUnhjucxnhuxnbcqvnyjcje”

“WyjnZcrawqgnCqu.n.qjtngqwnorjnzjwhjjgnugxnmrcmptnug.nYqpg.t.rwmy,”ntur.
TyjcoqmfnYqovjtntyuckoxe

Wyjnqo.nhqvugnbumj.ncqpg.nug.noqqfj.nfjjgoxnuwnyrvnbcqvnyjcnorwwoj
cj.-crvvj.njxjten“Wyjnljgwojvugnutfj.nvjnbqcn_vx_nu..cjtt,”ntyjntur.e
“Tuooxnorsjtnrgnoq.lrgltnuwn3,nVuxbrjo.nKoumj,nKjmfyuve”

“Ug.nxqpcnguvjnrt----?”

“VxnguvjnrtnTuhxjc--yjc’tnrtn.jggrt,nhyrmynWqvn.jggrtnvuccrj.nyjc--ug.
untvucw,nmojugnou.,nwqq,nutnoqglnutnyj’tnuwntju,nug.ngqntwjhuc.nrgnwyj
mqvkugxnvqcjnwyqplywnqb;nzpwnhyjgnqgntyqcj,nhyuwnhrwynwyjnhqvjgnug.nhyuw
hrwynoripqcntyqkt----”

“Yjcjnrtnxqpcncrgl,nVctenTuhxjc,”nRnrgwjccpkwj.,nrgnqzj.rjgmjnwqnuntrlg
bcqvnvxnmqvkugrqg;n“rwnmojucoxnzjoqgltnwqnxqpcn.uplywjc,nug.nRnuvnlou.
wqnzjnuzojnwqncjtwqcjnrwnwqnwyjncrlywbponqhgjce”

Hrwynvugxnvpvzoj.nzojttrgltnug.nkcqwjtwuwrqgtnqbnlcuwrwp.jnwyjnqo.nmcqgj
kumfj.nrwnuhuxnrgnyjcnkqmfjw,nug.ntypbboj.nqbbn.qhgnwyjntwurctenTyjcoqmf
Yqovjtntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjwnwyjnvqvjgwnwyuwntyjnhutnlqgjnug.ncptyj.nrgwq
yrtncqqvenYjncjwpcgj.nrgnunbjhntjmqg.tnjgsjoqkj.nrgnugnpotwjcnug.
unmcusuwen“R’oonbqooqhnyjc,”nyjntur.,nypccrj.ox;n“tyjnvptwnzjnug
ummqvkormj,nug.nhroonoju.nvjnwqnyrvenHurwnpknbqcnvje”nWyjnyuoon.qqcnyu.
yuc.oxntouvvj.nzjyrg.nqpcnsrtrwqcnzjbqcjnYqovjtnyu.n.jtmjg.j.nwyjntwurce
Oqqfrglnwycqplynwyjnhrg.qhnRnmqpo.ntjjnyjcnhuofrglnbjjzoxnuoqglnwyj
qwyjcntr.j,nhyrojnyjcnkpctpjcn.qllj.nyjcntqvjnorwwojn.rtwugmjnzjyrg.e
“Jrwyjcnyrtnhyqojnwyjqcxnrtnrgmqccjmw,”nRnwyqplywnwqnvxtjob,n“qcnjotjnyj
hroonzjnoj.ngqhnwqnwyjnyjucwnqbnwyjnvxtwjcxe”nWyjcjnhutngqngjj.nbqcnyrv
wqnutfnvjnwqnhurwnpknbqcnyrv,nbqcnRnbjownwyuwntojjknhutnrvkqttrzojnpgwro
Rnyjuc.nwyjncjtpownqbnyrtnu.sjgwpcje

RwnhutnmoqtjnpkqgngrgjnhyjgnyjntjwnqpwenRnyu.ngqnr.junyqhnoqglnyjnvrlyw
zj,nzpwnRntuwntwqor.oxnkpbbrglnuwnvxnkrkjnug.ntfrkkrglnqsjcnwyjnkuljt
qbnYjgcrnVpcljc’tn“Srjn.jnZqyèvje”nWjgnq’moqmfnkuttj.,nug.nRnyjuc.nwyj
bqqwtwjktnqbnwyjnvur.nutnwyjxnkuwwjcj.nqbbnwqnzj.enJojsjg,nug.nwyj
vqcjntwuwjoxnwcju.nqbnwyjnoug.ou.xnkuttj.nvxn.qqc,nzqpg.nbqcnwyjntuvj
.jtwrguwrqgenRwnhutnmoqtjnpkqgnwhjosjnzjbqcjnRnyjuc.nwyjntyuckntqpg.nqb
yrtnouwmy-fjxenWyjnrgtwugwnyjnjgwjcj.nRntuhnzxnyrtnbumjnwyuwnyjnyu.ngqw
zjjgntpmmjttbpoenUvptjvjgwnug.nmyulcrgntjjvj.nwqnzjntwcpllorglnbqcnwyj
vutwjcx,npgwronwyjnbqcvjcntp..jgoxnmuccrj.nwyjn.ux,nug.nyjnzpctwnrgwqnu
yjucwxnouplye

“Rnhqpo.g’wnyusjnwyjnTmqwoug.nXuc.jctnfgqhnrwnbqcnwyjnhqco.,”nyjnmcrj.,
.cqkkrglnrgwqnyrtnmyurc;n“Rnyusjnmyubbj.nwyjvntqnvpmynwyuwnwyjxnhqpo.
gjsjcnyusjnojwnvjnyjucnwyjnjg.nqbnrwenRnmugnubbqc.nwqnouply,nzjmuptjnR
fgqhnwyuwnRnhroonzjnjsjgnhrwynwyjvnrgnwyjnoqglncpge”

“Hyuwnrtnrwnwyjg?”nRnutfj.e

“Qy,nRn.qg’wnvrg.nwjoorglnuntwqcxnulurgtwnvxtjobenWyuwnmcjuwpcjnyu.
lqgjnunorwwojnhuxnhyjgntyjnzjlugnwqnorvknug.ntyqhnjsjcxntrlgnqbnzjrgl
bqqw-tqcjenKcjtjgwoxntyjnmuvjnwqnunyuow,nug.nyuroj.nunbqpc-hyjjojcnhyrmy
hutnkuttrglenRnvugulj.nwqnzjnmoqtjnwqnyjcntqnutnwqnyjucnwyjnu..cjtt,nzpw
Rngjj.ngqwnyusjnzjjgntqnugarqpt,nbqcntyjntuglnrwnqpwnoqp.njgqplynwq
zjnyjuc.nuwnwyjnqwyjcntr.jnqbnwyjntwcjjw,n‘.crsjnwqn13,n.pgmugnTwcjjw,
Yqpg.t.rwmy,’ntyjnmcrj.enWyrtnzjlrgtnwqnoqqfnljgprgj,nRnwyqplyw,nug.
yusrglntjjgnyjcntubjoxnrgtr.j,nRnkjcmyj.nvxtjobnzjyrg.enWyuw’tnugnucw
hyrmynjsjcxn.jwjmwrsjntyqpo.nzjnugnjakjcwnuwenHjoo,nuhuxnhjncuwwoj.,nug.
gjsjcn.cjhncjrgnpgwronhjncjumyj.nwyjntwcjjwnrgnipjtwrqgenRnyqkkj.nqbb
zjbqcjnhjnmuvjnwqnwyjn.qqc,nug.ntwcqooj.n.qhgnwyjntwcjjwnrgnugnjutx,
oqpglrglnhuxenRntuhnwyjnmuznkpoonpkenWyjn.crsjcn pvkj.n.qhg,nug.nRntuh
yrvnqkjgnwyjn.qqcnug.ntwug.njakjmwugwoxenGqwyrglnmuvjnqpwnwyqplyenHyjg
Rncjumyj.nyrvnyjnhutnlcqkrglnuzqpwnbcugwrmuooxnrgnwyjnjvkwxnmuz,nug.
lrsrglnsjgwnwqnwyjnbrgjtwnuttqcwj.nmqoojmwrqgnqbnquwytnwyuwnjsjcnR
ortwjgj.nwqenWyjcjnhutngqntrlgnqcnwcumjnqbnyrtnkuttjgljc,nug.nRnbjucnrw
hroonzjntqvjnwrvjnzjbqcjnyjnljwtnyrtnbucjenQgnrgiprcrglnuwnGpvzjcn13
hjnbqpg.nwyuwnwyjnyqptjnzjoqglj.nwqnuncjtkjmwuzojnkukjcyugljc,nguvj.
Fjthrmf,nug.nwyuwngqnqgjnqbnwyjnguvjnjrwyjcnqbnTuhxjcnqcn.jggrtnyu.njsjc
zjjgnyjuc.nqbnwyjcje”

“Xqpn.qg’wnvjugnwqntux,”nRnmcrj.,nrgnuvudjvjgw,n“wyuwnwyuwnwqwwjcrgl,
bjjzojnqo.nhqvugnhutnuzojnwqnljwnqpwnqbnwyjnmuznhyrojnrwnhutnrgnvqwrqg,
hrwyqpwnjrwyjcnxqpnqcnwyjn.crsjcntjjrglnyjc?”

“Qo.nhqvugnzjn.uvgj.!”ntur.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,ntyuckoxen“Hjnhjcjnwyjnqo.
hqvjgnwqnzjntqnwufjgnrgenRwnvptwnyusjnzjjgnunxqpglnvug,nug.nug
umwrsjnqgj,nwqq,nzjtr.jtnzjrglnugnrgmqvkucuzojnumwqcenWyjnljw-pknhut
rgrvrwuzojenYjntuhnwyuwnyjnhutnbqooqhj.,ngqn.qpzw,nug.nptj.nwyrtnvjugt
qbnlrsrglnvjnwyjntorkenRwntyqhtnwyuwnwyjnvugnhjnucjnubwjcnrtngqwnut
oqgjoxnutnRnrvulrgj.nyjnhut,nzpwnyutnbcrjg.tnhyqnucjncju.xnwqncrtf
tqvjwyrglnbqcnyrvenGqh,n.qmwqc,nxqpnucjnoqqfrgln.qgj-pkenWufjnvxnu.srmj
ug.nwpcgnrge”

Rnhutnmjcwurgoxnbjjorglnsjcxnhjucx,ntqnRnqzjxj.nyrtnrg pgmwrqgenR
ojbwnYqovjtntjuwj.nrgnbcqgwnqbnwyjntvqpo.jcrglnbrcj,nug.noqglnrgwqnwyj
huwmyjtnqbnwyjngrlywnRnyjuc.nwyjnoqh,nvjougmyqoxnhurorgltnqbnyrtnsrqorg,
ug.nfgjhnwyuwnyjnhutntwroonkqg.jcrglnqsjcnwyjntwcugljnkcqzojvnhyrmynyj
yu.ntjwnyrvtjobnwqnpgcusjoe




MYUKWJCnSRenWQZRUTnLCJLTQGnTYQHTnHYUWnYJnMUGn.Qe


WYJnkukjctngjawn.uxnhjcjnbpoonqbnwyjn“ZcrawqgnVxtwjcx,”nutnwyjxnwjcvj.
rwenJumynyu.nunoqglnummqpgwnqbnwyjnubburc,nug.ntqvjnyu.noju.jctnpkqgnrw
rgnu..rwrqgenWyjcjnhutntqvjnrgbqcvuwrqgnrgnwyjvnhyrmynhutngjhnwqnvjenR
twrooncjwurgnrgnvxntmcuk-zqqfngpvjcqptnmorkkrgltnug.njawcumwtnzjucrgl
pkqgnwyjnmutjenYjcjnrtnunmqg.jgtuwrqgnqbnunbjhnqbnwyjv:--

Wyjn_.uroxnWjojlcuky_ncjvucfj.nwyuwnrgnwyjnyrtwqcxnqbnmcrvjnwyjcjnyu.
tjo.qvnzjjgnunwculj.xnhyrmynkcjtjgwj.ntwcugljcnbjuwpcjtenWyjnLjcvug
guvjnqbnwyjnsrmwrv,nwyjnuztjgmjnqbnuoonqwyjcnvqwrsj,nug.nwyjntrgrtwjc
rgtmcrkwrqgnqgnwyjnhuoo,nuoonkqrgwj.nwqnrwtnkjckjwcuwrqgnzxnkqorwrmuo
cjbpljjtnug.ncjsqopwrqgrtwtenWyjnTqmruortwtnyu.nvugxnzcugmyjtnrg
Uvjcrmu,nug.nwyjn.jmjutj.nyu.,ngqn.qpzw,nrgbcrglj.nwyjrcnpghcrwwjgnouht,
ug.nzjjgnwcumfj.n.qhgnzxnwyjvenUbwjcnuoop.rglnurcroxnwqnwyjnSjyvljcrmyw,
uipunwqbugu,nMuczqgucr,nwyjnVucmyrqgjttn.jnZcrgsroorjct,nwyjn.uchrgrug
wyjqcx,nwyjnkcrgmrkojtnqbnVuowypt,nug.nwyjnCuwmorbbnYrlyhuxnvpc.jct,nwyj
ucwrmojnmqgmop.j.nzxnu.vqgrtyrglnwyjnLqsjcgvjgwnug.nu.sqmuwrglnunmoqtjc
huwmynqsjcnbqcjrlgjctnrgnJgloug.e

Wyjn_Twug.uc._nmqvvjgwj.npkqgnwyjnbumwnwyuwnouhojttnqpwculjtnqbnwyjntqcw
ptpuooxnqmmpccj.npg.jcnunOrzjcuonU.vrgrtwcuwrqgenWyjxnucqtjnbcqvnwyj
pgtjwworglnqbnwyjnvrg.tnqbnwyjnvuttjt,nug.nwyjnmqgtjipjgwnhjufjgrgl
qbnuoonupwyqcrwxenWyjn.jmjutj.nhutnugnUvjcrmugnljgwojvugnhyqnyu.
zjjgncjtr.rglnbqcntqvjnhjjftnrgnwyjnVjwcqkqortenYjnyu.ntwuxj.nuwnwyj
zquc.rgl-yqptjnqbnVu.uvjnMyuckjgwrjc,nrgnWqcipuxnWjccumj,nMuvzjchjooe
Yjnhutnummqvkugrj.nrgnyrtnwcusjotnzxnyrtnkcrsuwjntjmcjwucx,nVcen qtjky
TwugljctqgenWyjnwhqnzu.jnu.rjpnwqnwyjrcnoug.ou.xnpkqgnWpjt.ux,nwyj
4wynrgtwe,nug.n.jkucwj.nwqnJptwqgnTwuwrqgnhrwynwyjnusqhj.nrgwjgwrqgnqb
muwmyrglnwyjnOrsjckqqonjakcjttenWyjxnhjcjnubwjchuc.tntjjgnwqljwyjcnpkqg
wyjnkouwbqcvenGqwyrglnvqcjnrtnfgqhgnqbnwyjvnpgwronVcen.cjzzjc’tnzq.x
hut,nutncjmqc.j.,n.rtmqsjcj.nrgnugnjvkwxnyqptjnrgnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.,
vugxnvrojtnbcqvnJptwqgenYqhnyjnmuvjnwyjcj,nqcnyqhnyjnvjwnyrtnbuwj,nucj
ipjtwrqgtnhyrmynucjntwroonrgsqosj.nrgnvxtwjcxenGqwyrglnrtnfgqhgnqbnwyj
hyjcjuzqpwtnqbnTwugljctqgenHjnucjnlou.nwqnojucgnwyuwnVcenOjtwcu.jnug.
VcenLcjltqg,nqbnTmqwoug.nXuc.,nucjnzqwynjglulj.npkqgnwyjnmutj,nug.nrw
rtnmqgbr.jgwoxnugwrmrkuwj.nwyuwnwyjtjnhjoo-fgqhgnqbbrmjctnhroontkjj.rox
wycqhnorlywnpkqgnwyjnvuwwjce

Wyjn_.uroxnGjht_nqztjcsj.nwyuwnwyjcjnhutngqn.qpzwnutnwqnwyjnmcrvjnzjrgl
unkqorwrmuonqgjenWyjn.jtkqwrtvnug.nyuwcj.nqbnOrzjcuortvnhyrmynugrvuwj.
wyjnMqgwrgjgwuonLqsjcgvjgwtnyu.nyu.nwyjnjbbjmwnqbn.crsrglnwqnqpcntyqcjt
ungpvzjcnqbnvjgnhyqnvrlywnyusjnvu.jnjamjoojgwnmrwrdjgtnhjcjnwyjxngqw
tqpcj.nzxnwyjncjmqoojmwrqgnqbnuoonwyuwnwyjxnyu.npg.jclqgjenUvqglnwyjtj
vjgnwyjcjnhutnuntwcrgljgwnmq.jnqbnyqgqpc,nugxnrgbcrgljvjgwnqbnhyrmynhut
kpgrtyj.nzxn.juwyenJsjcxnjbbqcwntyqpo.nzjnvu.jnwqnbrg.nwyjntjmcjwucx,
Twugljctqg,nug.nwqnutmjcwurgntqvjnkucwrmpouctnqbnwyjnyuzrwtnqbnwyj
.jmjutj.enUnlcjuwntwjknyu.nzjjgnlurgj.nzxnwyjn.rtmqsjcxnqbnwyjnu..cjtt
qbnwyjnyqptjnuwnhyrmynyjnyu.nzquc.j.--uncjtpownhyrmynhutnjgwrcjoxn.pjnwq
wyjnumpwjgjttnug.njgjclxnqbnVcenLcjltqgnqbnTmqwoug.nXuc.e

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtnug.nRncju.nwyjtjngqwrmjtnqsjcnwqljwyjcnuwnzcjufbutw,nug.
wyjxnukkjucj.nwqnubbqc.nyrvnmqgtr.jcuzojnuvptjvjgwe

“Rnwqo.nxqpnwyuw,nhyuwjsjcnyukkjgj.,nOjtwcu.jnug.nLcjltqgnhqpo.nzjntpcj
wqntmqcje”

“Wyuwn.jkjg.tnqgnyqhnrwnwpcgtnqpwe”

“Qy,nzojttnxqp,nrwn.qjtg’wnvuwwjcnrgnwyjnojutwenRbnwyjnvugnrtnmuplyw,nrw
hroonzjn_qgnummqpgw_nqbnwyjrcnjajcwrqgt;nrbnyjnjtmukjt,nrwnhroonzjn_rg
tkrwj_nqbnwyjrcnjajcwrqgtenRw’tnyju.tnRnhrgnug.nwurotnxqpnoqtjenHyuwjsjc
wyjxn.q,nwyjxnhroonyusjnbqooqhjcten‘Pgntqwnwcqpsjnwqp qpctnpgnkoptntqw
iprno’u.vrcje’”

“Hyuwnqgnjucwynrtnwyrt?”nRnmcrj.,nbqcnuwnwyrtnvqvjgwnwyjcjnmuvjnwyj
kuwwjcrglnqbnvugxntwjktnrgnwyjnyuoonug.nqgnwyjntwurct,nummqvkugrj.nzx
up.rzojnjakcjttrqgtnqbn.rtlptwnpkqgnwyjnkucwnqbnqpcnoug.ou.xe

“Rw’tnwyjnZufjcnTwcjjwn.rsrtrqgnqbnwyjn.jwjmwrsjnkqormjnbqcmj,”ntur.nvx
mqvkugrqg,nlcusjox;nug.nutnyjntkqfjnwyjcjncptyj.nrgwqnwyjncqqvnyuobnu
.qdjgnqbnwyjn.rcwrjtwnug.nvqtwncullj.ntwcjjwnUcuztnwyuwnjsjcnRnmoukkj.
jxjtnqge

“‘Wjgwrqg!”nmcrj.nYqovjt,nrgnuntyucknwqgj,nug.nwyjntran.rcwxnorwwoj
tmqpg.cjotntwqq.nrgnunorgjnorfjntqnvugxn.rtcjkpwuzojntwuwpjwwjten“Rg
bpwpcjnxqpntyuoontjg.npknHrllrgtnuoqgjnwqncjkqcw,nug.nwyjncjtwnqbnxqp
vptwnhurwnrgnwyjntwcjjwenYusjnxqpnbqpg.nrw,nHrllrgt?”

“Gq,ntrc,nhjnyurg’w,”ntur.nqgjnqbnwyjnxqpwyte

“Rnyuc.oxnjakjmwj.nxqpnhqpo.enXqpnvptwnfjjknqgnpgwronxqpn.qenYjcjnucj
xqpcnhuljte”n[13]nYjnyug.j.njumynqbnwyjvnuntyroorgle

“Gqh,nqbbnxqpnlq,nug.nmqvjnzumfnhrwynunzjwwjcncjkqcwngjawnwrvje”

Yjnhusj.nyrtnyug.,nug.nwyjxntmuvkjcj.nuhuxn.qhgtwurctnorfjntqnvugxncuwt,
ug.nhjnyjuc.nwyjrcntycroonsqrmjtngjawnvqvjgwnrgnwyjntwcjjwe

“Wyjcj’tnvqcjnhqcfnwqnzjnlqwnqpwnqbnqgjnqbnwyqtjnorwwojnzjlluctnwyug
qpwnqbnun.qdjgnqbnwyjnbqcmj,”nYqovjtncjvucfj.en“Wyjnvjcjntrlywnqbnug
qbbrmruo-oqqfrglnkjctqgntjuotnvjg’tnorktenWyjtjnxqpgltwjct,nyqhjsjc,nlq
jsjcxhyjcjnug.nyjucnjsjcxwyrglenWyjxnucjnutntyucknutngjj.ojt,nwqq;nuoo
wyjxnhugwnrtnqclugrtuwrqge”

“RtnrwnqgnwyrtnZcrawqgnmutjnwyuwnxqpnucjnjvkoqxrglnwyjv?”nRnutfj.e

“Xjt;nwyjcjnrtnunkqrgwnhyrmynRnhrtynwqnutmjcwurgenRwnrtnvjcjoxnunvuwwjc
qbnwrvjenYpooq!nhjnucjnlqrglnwqnyjucntqvjngjhtngqhnhrwynunsjgljugmj!
YjcjnrtnLcjltqgnmqvrgln.qhgnwyjncqu.nhrwynzjuwrwp.jnhcrwwjgnpkqgnjsjcx
bjuwpcjnqbnyrtnbumjenZqpg.nbqcnpt,nRnfgqhenXjt,nyjnrtntwqkkrglenWyjcjnyj
rt!”

Wyjcjnhutnunsrqojgwnkjuonuwnwyjnzjoo,nug.nrgnunbjhntjmqg.tnwyj
burc-yurcj.n.jwjmwrsjnmuvjnpknwyjntwurct,nwycjjntwjktnuwnunwrvj,nug.
zpctwnrgwqnqpcntrwwrgl-cqqve

“Vxn.jucnbjooqh,”nyjnmcrj.,nhcrglrglnYqovjt’npgcjtkqgtrsjnyug.,
“mqglcuwpouwjnvj!nRnyusjnvu.jnwyjnhyqojnwyrglnutnmojucnutn.uxe”

Untyu.jnqbnugarjwxntjjvj.nwqnvjnwqnmcqttnvxnmqvkugrqg’tnjakcjttrsjnbumje

“.qnxqpnvjugnwyuwnxqpnucjnqgnwyjncrlywnwcumf?”nyjnutfj.e

“Wyjncrlywnwcumf!nHyx,ntrc,nhjnyusjnwyjnvugnpg.jcnoqmfnug.nfjxe”

“Ug.nyrtnguvjnrt?”

“UcwypcnMyuckjgwrjc,ntpz-orjpwjgugwnrgnYjcnVu jtwx’tngusx,”nmcrj.
Lcjltqg,nkqvkqptox,ncpzzrglnyrtnbuwnyug.tnug.nrgbouwrglnyrtnmyjtwe

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtnlusjnuntrlynqbncjorjb,nug.ncjouaj.nrgwqnuntvroje

“Wufjnuntjuw,nug.nwcxnqgjnqbnwyjtjnmrluct,”nyjntur.en“Hjnucjnugarqptnwq
fgqhnyqhnxqpnvugulj.nrwenHroonxqpnyusjntqvjnhyrtfjxnug.nhuwjc?”

“Rn.qg’wnvrg.nrbnRn.q,”nwyjn.jwjmwrsjnugthjcj.en“Wyjnwcjvjg.qpt
jajcwrqgtnhyrmynRnyusjnlqgjnwycqplyn.pcrglnwyjnoutwn.uxnqcnwhqnyusjnhqcg
vjnqpwenGqwntqnvpmynzq.roxnjajcwrqg,nxqpnpg.jctwug.,nutnwyjntwcurgnpkqg
wyjnvrg.enXqpnhroonukkcjmruwjnwyuw,nVcenTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,nbqcnhjnucjnzqwy
zcurg-hqcfjcte”

“Xqpn.qnvjnwqqnvpmynyqgqpc,”ntur.nYqovjt,nlcusjoxen“Ojwnptnyjucnyqhnxqp
uccrsj.nuwnwyrtnvqtwnlcuwrbxrglncjtpowe”

Wyjn.jwjmwrsjntjuwj.nyrvtjobnrgnwyjnucv-myurc,nug.nkpbbj.nmqvkoumjgwox
uwnyrtnmrlucenWyjgntp..jgoxnyjntoukkj.nyrtnwyrlynrgnunkucqaxtvnqb
uvptjvjgwe

“Wyjnbpgnqbnrwnrt,”nyjnmcrj.,n“wyuwnwyuwnbqqonOjtwcu.j,nhyqnwyrgft
yrvtjobntqntvucw,nyutnlqgjnqbbnpkqgnwyjnhcqglnwcumfnuowqljwyjcenYjnrt
ubwjcnwyjntjmcjwucxnTwugljctqg,nhyqnyu.ngqnvqcjnwqn.qnhrwynwyjnmcrvj
wyugnwyjnzuzjnpgzqcgenRnyusjngqn.qpzwnwyuwnyjnyutnmuplywnyrvnzxnwyrt
wrvje”

Wyjnr.junwrmfoj.nLcjltqgntqnvpmynwyuwnyjnouplyj.npgwronyjnmyqfj.e

“Ug.nyqhn.r.nxqpnljwnxqpcnmopj?”

“Uy,nR’oonwjoonxqpnuoonuzqpwnrwenQbnmqpctj,n.qmwqcnHuwtqg,nwyrtnrt
twcrmwoxnzjwhjjgnqpctjosjtenWyjnbrctwn.rbbrmpowxnhyrmynhjnyu.nwqnmqgwjg.
hrwynhutnwyjnbrg.rglnqbnwyrtnUvjcrmug’tnugwjmj.jgwtenTqvjnkjqkojnhqpo.
yusjnhurwj.npgwronwyjrcnu.sjcwrtjvjgwtnhjcjnugthjcj.,nqcnpgwronkucwrjt
muvjnbqchuc.nug.nsqopgwjjcj.nrgbqcvuwrqgenWyuwnrtngqwnWqzrutnLcjltqg’t
huxnqbnlqrglnwqnhqcfenXqpncjvjvzjcnwyjnyuwnzjtr.jnwyjn.ju.nvug?”

“Xjt,”ntur.nYqovjt;n“zxn qygnPg.jchqq.nug.nTqgt,n129,nMuvzjchjoonCqu.e”

Lcjltqgnoqqfj.niprwjnmcjtw-buoojge

“Rnyu.ngqnr.junwyuwnxqpngqwrmj.nwyuw,”nyjntur.en“Yusjnxqpnzjjgnwyjcj?”

“Gqe”

“Yu!”nmcrj.nLcjltqg,nrgnuncjorjsj.nsqrmj;n“xqpntyqpo.ngjsjcngjlojmwnu
myugmj,nyqhjsjcntvuoonrwnvuxntjjve”

“Wqnunlcjuwnvrg.,ngqwyrglnrtnorwwoj,”ncjvucfj.nYqovjt,ntjgwjgwrqptoxe

“Hjoo,nRnhjgwnwqnPg.jchqq.,nug.nutfj.nyrvnrbnyjnyu.ntqo.nunyuwnqbnwyuw
trdjnug.n.jtmcrkwrqgenYjnoqqfj.nqsjcnyrtnzqqft,nug.nmuvjnqgnrwnuwnqgmje
Yjnyu.ntjgwnwyjnyuwnwqnunVcen.cjzzjc,ncjtr.rglnuwnMyuckjgwrjc’tnZquc.rgl
Jtwuzortyvjgw,nWqcipuxnWjccumjenWyptnRnlqwnuwnyrtnu..cjtte”

“Tvucw--sjcxntvucw!”nvpcvpcj.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjte

“Rngjawnmuooj.npkqgnVu.uvjnMyuckjgwrjc,”nmqgwrgpj.nwyjn.jwjmwrsje
“Rnbqpg.nyjcnsjcxnkuojnug.n.rtwcjttj.enYjcn.uplywjcnhutnrgnwyjncqqv,
wqq--ugnpgmqvvqgoxnbrgjnlrcontyjnrt,nwqq;ntyjnhutnoqqfrglncj.nuzqpw
wyjnjxjtnug.nyjcnorktnwcjvzoj.nutnRntkqfjnwqnyjcenWyuwn.r.g’wnjtmukj
vxngqwrmjenRnzjlugnwqntvjoonuncuwenXqpnfgqhnwyjnbjjorgl,nVcenTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt,nhyjgnxqpnmqvjnpkqgnwyjncrlywntmjgw--unfrg.nqbnwycroonrgnxqpc
gjcsjten‘Yusjnxqpnyjuc.nqbnwyjnvxtwjcrqptn.juwynqbnxqpcnouwjnzquc.jcnVce
Jgqmyn en.cjzzjc,nqbnMojsjoug.?’nRnutfj.e

“Wyjnvqwyjcngq..j.enTyjn.r.g’wntjjvnuzojnwqnljwnqpwnunhqc.enWyjn.uplywjc
zpctwnrgwqnwjuctenRnbjownvqcjnwyugnjsjcnwyuwnwyjtjnkjqkojnfgjhntqvjwyrgl
qbnwyjnvuwwjce

“‘Uwnhyuwnq’moqmfn.r.nVcen.cjzzjcnojusjnxqpcnyqptjnbqcnwyjnwcurg?’nR
utfj.e

“‘Uwnjrlywnq’moqmf,’ntyjntur.,nlpokrglnrgnyjcnwycquwnwqnfjjkn.qhgnyjc
ulrwuwrqgen‘Yrtntjmcjwucx,nVcenTwugljctqg,ntur.nwyuwnwyjcjnhjcjnwhq
wcurgt--qgjnuwn9e15nug.nqgjnuwn11enYjnhutnwqnmuwmynwyjnbrctwen[14]

“‘Ug.nhutnwyuwnwyjnoutwnhyrmynxqpntuhnqbnyrv?’

“Unwjccrzojnmyugljnmuvjnqsjcnwyjnhqvug’tnbumjnutnRnutfj.nwyjnipjtwrqge
Yjcnbjuwpcjtnwpcgj.nkjcbjmwoxnorsr.enRwnhutntqvjntjmqg.tnzjbqcjntyj
mqpo.nljwnqpwnwyjntrglojnhqc.n‘Xjt’--ug.nhyjgnrwn.r.nmqvjnrwnhutnrgnu
yptfxnpgguwpcuonwqgje

“Wyjcjnhutntrojgmjnbqcnunvqvjgw,nug.nwyjgnwyjn.uplywjcntkqfjnrgnunmuov
mojucnsqrmje

“‘Gqnlqq.nmugnjsjcnmqvjnqbnbuotjyqq.,nvqwyjc,’ntyjntur.en‘Ojwnptnzj
bcugfnhrwynwyrtnljgwojvugenHjn_.r._ntjjnVcen.cjzzjcnulurge’

“‘Lq.nbqclrsjnxqp!’nmcrj.nVu.uvjnMyuckjgwrjc,nwycqhrglnpknyjcnyug.tnug.
trgfrglnzumfnrgnyjcnmyurcen‘Xqpnyusjnvpc.jcj.nxqpcnzcqwyjce’

“‘Ucwypcnhqpo.ncuwyjcnwyuwnhjntkqfjnwyjnwcpwy,’nwyjnlrconugthjcj.
brcvoxe

“‘Xqpnyu.nzjtwnwjoonvjnuoonuzqpwnrwngqh,’nRntur.en‘Yuob-mqgbr.jgmjtnucj
hqctjnwyugngqgjenZjtr.jt,nxqpn.qngqwnfgqhnyqhnvpmynhjnfgqhnqbnrwe’

“‘Qgnxqpcnyju.nzjnrw,nUormj!’nmcrj.nyjcnvqwyjc;nug.nwyjg,nwpcgrglnwqnvj,
‘Rnhroonwjoonxqpnuoo,ntrcen.qngqwnrvulrgjnwyuwnvxnulrwuwrqgnqgnzjyuob
qbnvxntqgnucrtjtnbcqvnugxnbjucnojtwnyjntyqpo.nyusjnyu.nunyug.nrgnwyrt
wjccrzojnubburcenYjnrtnpwwjcoxnrggqmjgwnqbnrwenVxn.cju.nrt,nyqhjsjc,
wyuwnrgnxqpcnjxjtnug.nrgnwyjnjxjtnqbnqwyjctnyjnvuxnukkjucnwqnzj
mqvkcqvrtj.enWyuwnyqhjsjcnrtntpcjoxnrvkqttrzojenYrtnyrlynmyucumwjc,nyrt
kcqbjttrqg,nyrtnugwjmj.jgwtnhqpo.nuoonbqczr.nrwe’

“‘Xqpcnzjtwnhuxnrtnwqnvufjnunmojugnzcjutwnqbnwyjnbumwt,’nRnugthjcj.e
‘.jkjg.npkqgnrw,nrbnxqpcntqgnrtnrggqmjgwnyjnhroonzjngqgjnwyjnhqctje’

“‘Kjcyukt,nUormj,nxqpnyu.nzjwwjcnojusjnptnwqljwyjc,’ntyjntur.,nug.nyjc
.uplywjcnhrwy.cjhen‘Gqh,ntrc,’ntyjnmqgwrgpj.,n‘Rnyu.ngqnrgwjgwrqgnqb
wjoorglnxqpnuoonwyrt,nzpwntrgmjnvxnkqqcn.uplywjcnyutn.rtmoqtj.nrwnR
yusjngqnuowjcguwrsjenYusrglnqgmjn.jmr.j.nwqntkjuf,nRnhroonwjoonxqpnuoo
hrwyqpwnqvrwwrglnugxnkucwrmpouce’

“‘Rwnrtnxqpcnhrtjtwnmqpctj,’ntur.nRe

“‘Vcen.cjzzjcnyutnzjjgnhrwynptngjucoxnwycjjnhjjftenYjnug.nyrtntjmcjwucx,
VcenTwugljctqg,nyu.nzjjgnwcusjoorglnqgnwyjnMqgwrgjgwenRngqwrmj.nu
“Mqkjgyuljg”nouzjonpkqgnjumynqbnwyjrcnwcpgft,ntyqhrglnwyuwnwyuwnyu.nzjjg
wyjrcnoutwntwqkkrglnkoumjenTwugljctqgnhutnuniprjwncjtjcsj.nvug,nzpwnyrt
jvkoqxjc,nRnuvntqccxnwqntux,nhutnbucnqwyjchrtjenYjnhutnmquctjnrgnyrt
yuzrwtnug.nzcpwrtynrgnyrtnhuxtenWyjnsjcxngrlywnqbnyrtnuccrsuonyjnzjmuvj
sjcxnvpmynwyjnhqctjnbqcn.crgf,nug.,nrg.jj.,nubwjcnwhjosjnq’moqmfnrgnwyj
.uxnyjnmqpo.nyuc.oxnjsjcnzjntur.nwqnzjntqzjcenYrtnvuggjctnwqhuc.tnwyj
vur.-tjcsugwtnhjcjn.rtlptwrgloxnbcjjnug.nbuvrorucenHqctwnqbnuoo,nyj
tkjj.roxnuttpvj.nwyjntuvjnuwwrwp.jnwqhuc.tnvxn.uplywjc,nUormj,nug.ntkqfj
wqnyjcnvqcjnwyugnqgmjnrgnunhuxnhyrmy,nbqcwpguwjox,ntyjnrtnwqqnrggqmjgw
wqnpg.jctwug.enQgnqgjnqmmutrqgnyjnumwpuooxntjrdj.nyjcnrgnyrtnucvtnug.
jvzcumj.nyjc--ugnqpwculjnhyrmynmuptj.nyrtnqhgntjmcjwucxnwqncjkcqumynyrv
bqcnyrtnpgvugoxnmqg.pmwe’

“‘Zpwnhyxn.r.nxqpntwug.nuoonwyrt,’nRnutfj.en‘Rntpkkqtjnwyuwnxqpnmugnljw
cr.nqbnxqpcnzquc.jctnhyjgnxqpnhrtye’

“VctenMyuckjgwrjcnzoptyj.nuwnvxnkjcwrgjgwnipjtwrqgen‘Hqpo.nwqnLq.nwyuw
Rnyu.nlrsjgnyrvngqwrmjnqgnwyjnsjcxn.uxnwyuwnyjnmuvj,’ntyjntur.en‘Zpw
rwnhutnuntqcjnwjvkwuwrqgenWyjxnhjcjnkuxrglnunkqpg.nun.uxnjumy--bqpcwjjg
kqpg.tnunhjjf,nug.nwyrtnrtnwyjntoumfntjutqgenRnuvnunhr.qh,nug.nvxnzqxnrg
wyjnGusxnyutnmqtwnvjnvpmyenRnlcp.lj.nwqnoqtjnwyjnvqgjxenRnumwj.nbqcnwyj
zjtwenWyrtnoutwnhutnwqqnvpmy,nyqhjsjc,nug.nRnlusjnyrvngqwrmjnwqnojusjnqg
ummqpgwnqbnrwenWyuwnhutnwyjncjutqgnqbnyrtnlqrgle’

“‘Hjoo?’

“‘VxnyjucwnlcjhnorlywnhyjgnRntuhnyrvn.crsjnuhuxenVxntqgnrtnqgnojusj
 ptwngqh,nzpwnRn.r.ngqwnwjoonyrvnugxwyrglnqbnuoonwyrt,nbqcnyrtnwjvkjc
rtnsrqojgw,nug.nyjnrtnkuttrqguwjoxnbqg.nqbnyrtntrtwjcenHyjgnRnmoqtj.nwyj
.qqcnzjyrg.nwyjvnunoqu.ntjjvj.nwqnzjnorbwj.nbcqvnvxnvrg.enUout,nrg
ojttnwyugnugnyqpcnwyjcjnhutnuncrglnuwnwyjnzjoo,nug.nRnojucgj.nwyuwnVce
.cjzzjcnyu.ncjwpcgj.enYjnhutnvpmynjamrwj.,nug.njsr.jgwoxnwyjnhqctjnbqc
.crgfenYjnbqcmj.nyrtnhuxnrgwqnwyjncqqv,nhyjcjnRnhutntrwwrglnhrwynvx
.uplywjc,nug.nvu.jntqvjnrgmqyjcjgwncjvucfnuzqpwnyusrglnvrttj.nyrtnwcurge
Yjnwyjgnwpcgj.nwqnUormj,nug.nzjbqcjnvxnsjcxnbumj,nkcqkqtj.nwqnyjcnwyuw
tyjntyqpo.nboxnhrwynyrven“Xqpnucjnqbnulj,”nyjntur.,n“ug.nwyjcjnrtngqnouh
wqntwqknxqpenRnyusjnvqgjxnjgqplynug.nwqntkucjenGjsjcnvrg.nwyjnqo.nlrco
yjcj,nzpwnmqvjnuoqglnhrwynvjngqhntwcurlywnuhuxenXqpntyuoonorsjnorfjnu
kcrgmjtte”nKqqcnUormjnhutntqnbcrlywjgj.nwyuwntyjntycpgfnuhuxnbcqvnyrv,
zpwnyjnmuplywnyjcnzxnwyjnhcrtwnug.njg.jusqpcj.nwqn.cuhnyjcnwqhuc.tnwyj
.qqcenRntmcjuvj.,nug.nuwnwyuwnvqvjgwnvxntqgnUcwypcnmuvjnrgwqnwyjncqqve
Hyuwnyukkjgj.nwyjgnRn.qngqwnfgqhenRnyjuc.nquwytnug.nwyjnmqgbptj.ntqpg.t
qbnuntmpbbojenRnhutnwqqnwjccrbrj.nwqncurtjnvxnyju.enHyjgnRn.r.noqqfnpk
RntuhnUcwypcntwug.rglnrgnwyjn.qqchuxnouplyrgl,nhrwynuntwrmfnrgnyrtnyug.e
“Rn.qg’wnwyrgfnwyuwnbrgjnbjooqhnhroonwcqpzojnptnulurg,”nyjntur.en“Rnhroo
 ptwnlqnubwjcnyrvnug.ntjjnhyuwnyjn.qjtnhrwynyrvtjobe”nHrwynwyqtjnhqc.t
yjnwqqfnyrtnyuwnug.ntwucwj.nqbbn.qhgnwyjntwcjjwenWyjngjawnvqcgrglnhj
yjuc.nqbnVcen.cjzzjc’tnvxtwjcrqptn.juwye’

“WyrtntwuwjvjgwnmuvjnbcqvnVctenMyuckjgwrjc’tnorktnhrwynvugxnlutktnug.
kuptjtenUwnwrvjtntyjntkqfjntqnoqhnwyuwnRnmqpo.nyuc.oxnmuwmynwyjnhqc.tenR
vu.jntyqcwyug.ngqwjtnqbnuoonwyuwntyjntur.,nyqhjsjc,ntqnwyuwnwyjcjntyqpo.
zjngqnkqttrzrorwxnqbnunvrtwufje”

“Rw’tniprwjnjamrwrgl,”ntur.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,nhrwynunxuhgen“Hyuwnyukkjgj.
gjaw?”

“HyjgnVctenMyuckjgwrjcnkuptj.,”nwyjn.jwjmwrsjnmqgwrgpj.,n“Rntuhnwyuwnwyj
hyqojnmutjnypglnpkqgnqgjnkqrgwenBrarglnyjcnhrwynvxnjxjnrgnunhuxnhyrmy
Rnuohuxtnbqpg.njbbjmwrsjnhrwynhqvjg,nRnutfj.nyjcnuwnhyuwnyqpcnyjcntqg
cjwpcgj.e

“‘Rn.qngqwnfgqh,’ntyjnugthjcj.e

“‘Gqwnfgqh?’

“‘Gq;nyjnyutnunouwmy-fjx,nug.nyjnojwnyrvtjobnrge’

“‘Ubwjcnxqpnhjgwnwqnzj.?’

“‘Xjte’

“‘Hyjgn.r.nxqpnlqnwqnzj.?’

“‘Uzqpwnjojsjge’

“‘Tqnxqpcntqgnhutnlqgjnuwnojutwnwhqnyqpct?’

“‘Xjte’

“‘Kqttrzoxnbqpcnqcnbrsj?’

“‘Xjte’

“‘Hyuwnhutnyjn.qrgln.pcrglnwyuwnwrvj?’

“‘Rn.qngqwnfgqh,’ntyjnugthjcj.,nwpcgrglnhyrwjnwqnyjcnsjcxnorkte

“Qbnmqpctjnubwjcnwyuwnwyjcjnhutngqwyrglnvqcjnwqnzjn.qgjenRnbqpg.
qpwnhyjcjnOrjpwjgugwnMyuckjgwrjcnhut,nwqqfnwhqnqbbrmjctnhrwynvj,nug.
uccjtwj.nyrvenHyjgnRnwqpmyj.nyrvnqgnwyjntyqpo.jcnug.nhucgj.nyrvnwqnmqvj
iprjwoxnhrwynpt,nyjnugthjcj.nptnutnzqo.nutnzcutt,n‘Rntpkkqtjnxqp
ucjnuccjtwrglnvjnbqcnzjrglnmqgmjcgj.nrgnwyjn.juwynqbnwyuwntmqpg.cjo
.cjzzjc,’nyjntur.enHjnyu.ntur.ngqwyrglnwqnyrvnuzqpwnrw,ntqnwyuwnyrt
uoop.rglnwqnrwnyu.nunvqtwntptkrmrqptnutkjmwe”

“Sjcx,”ntur.nYqovjte

“Yjntwroonmuccrj.nwyjnyjusxntwrmfnhyrmynwyjnvqwyjcn.jtmcrzj.nyrvnut
yusrglnhrwynyrvnhyjgnyjnbqooqhj.n.cjzzjcenRwnhutnuntwqpwnqufnmp.ljoe”

“Hyuwnrtnxqpcnwyjqcx,nwyjg?”

“Hjoo,nvxnwyjqcxnrtnwyuwnyjnbqooqhj.n.cjzzjcnutnbucnutnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.e
Hyjgnwyjcj,nunbcjtynuowjcmuwrqgnucqtjnzjwhjjgnwyjv,nrgnwyjnmqpctjnqb
hyrmyn.cjzzjcncjmjrsj.nunzoqhnbcqvnwyjntwrmf,nrgnwyjnkrwnqbnwyjntwqvumy,
kjcyukt,nhyrmynfrooj.nyrvnhrwyqpwnojusrglnugxnvucfenWyjngrlywnhutntq
hjwnwyuwngqnqgjnhutnuzqpw,ntqnMyuckjgwrjcn.cullj.nwyjnzq.xnqbnyrtnsrmwrv
rgwqnwyjnjvkwxnyqptjenUtnwqnwyjnmug.oj,nug.nwyjnzoqq.,nug.nwyjnhcrwrgl
qgnwyjnhuoo,nug.nwyjncrgl,nwyjxnvuxnuoonzjntqnvugxnwcrmftnwqnwycqhnwyj
kqormjnqgnwqnwyjnhcqglntmjgwe”

“Hjoon.qgj!”ntur.nYqovjtnrgnugnjgmqpculrglnsqrmjen“Cjuoox,nLcjltqg,nxqp
ucjnljwwrglnuoqglenHjntyuoonvufjntqvjwyrglnqbnxqpnxjwe”

“RnbouwwjcnvxtjobnwyuwnRnyusjnvugulj.nrwncuwyjcngjuwox,”nwyjn.jwjmwrsj
ugthjcj.nkcqp.oxen“Wyjnxqpglnvugnsqopgwjjcj.nuntwuwjvjgw,nrgnhyrmynyj
tur.nwyuwnubwjcnbqooqhrgln.cjzzjcntqvjnwrvj,nwyjnouwwjcnkjcmjrsj.nyrv,
ug.nwqqfnunmuznrgnqc.jcnwqnljwnuhuxnbcqvnyrvenQgnyrtnhuxnyqvjnyjnvjwnug
qo.ntyrkvuwj,nug.nwqqfnunoqglnhuofnhrwynyrvenQgnzjrglnutfj.nhyjcjnwyrt
qo.ntyrkvuwjnorsj.,nyjnhutnpguzojnwqnlrsjnugxntuwrtbumwqcxncjkoxenR
wyrgfnwyjnhyqojnmutjnbrwtnwqljwyjcnpgmqvvqgoxnhjooenHyuwnuvptjtnvjnrtnwq
wyrgfnqbnOjtwcu.j,nhyqnyu.ntwucwj.nqbbnpkqgnwyjnhcqglntmjgwenRnuvnubcur.
yjnhqg’wnvufjnvpmynqbn[15]nHyx,nzxn qsj,nyjcj’tnwyjnsjcxnvugnyrvtjob!”

Rwnhutnrg.jj.nOjtwcu.j,nhyqnyu.nutmjg.j.nwyjntwurctnhyrojnhjnhjcj
wuofrgl,nug.nhyqngqhnjgwjcj.nwyjncqqvenWyjnuttpcugmjnug.n upgwrgjtt
hyrmynljgjcuooxnvucfj.nyrtn.jvjugqpcnug.n.cjttnhjcj,nyqhjsjc,nhugwrgle
Yrtnbumjnhutn.rtwpczj.nug.nwcqpzoj.,nhyrojnyrtnmoqwyjtnhjcjn.rtuccuglj.
ug.npgwr.xenYjnyu.njsr.jgwoxnmqvjnhrwynwyjnrgwjgwrqgnqbnmqgtpowrgl
hrwynTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,nbqcnqgnkjcmjrsrglnyrtnmqoojulpjnyjnukkjucj.nwqnzj
jvzuccuttj.nug.nkpwnqpwenYjntwqq.nrgnwyjnmjgwcjnqbnwyjncqqv,nbpvzorgl
gjcsqptoxnhrwynyrtnyuwnug.npgmjcwurgnhyuwnwqn.qen“Wyrtnrtnunvqtw
jawcuqc.rgucxnmutj,”nyjntur.nuwnoutw--“unvqtwnrgmqvkcjyjgtrzojnubburce”

“Uy,nxqpnbrg.nrwntq,nVcenOjtwcu.j!”nmcrj.nLcjltqg,nwcrpvkyugwoxen“R
wyqplywnxqpnhqpo.nmqvjnwqnwyuwnmqgmoptrqgenYusjnxqpnvugulj.nwqnbrg.nwyj
Tjmcjwucx,nVcen qtjkynTwugljctqg?”

“WyjnTjmcjwucx,nVcen qtjkynTwugljctqg,”ntur.nOjtwcu.jnlcusjox,n“hut
vpc.jcj.nuwnYuoor.ux’tnKcrsuwjnYqwjonuzqpwntranq’moqmfnwyrtnvqcgrgle”




MYUKWJCnSRRenORLYWnRGnWYJn.UCFGJTTe


WYJnrgwjoorljgmjnhrwynhyrmynOjtwcu.jnlcjjwj.nptnhutntqnvqvjgwqptnug.ntq
pgjakjmwj.,nwyuwnhjnhjcjnuoonwycjjnburcoxn.pvbqpg.jcj.enLcjltqgntkcugl
qpwnqbnyrtnmyurcnug.npktjwnwyjncjvurg.jcnqbnyrtnhyrtfjxnug.nhuwjcenR
twucj.nrgntrojgmjnuwnTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,nhyqtjnorktnhjcjnmqvkcjttj.nug.nyrt
zcqhtn.cuhgn.qhgnqsjcnyrtnjxjte

“Twugljctqgnwqq!”nyjnvpwwjcj.en“Wyjnkoqwnwyrmfjgte”

“Rwnhutniprwjnwyrmfnjgqplynzjbqcj,”nlcpvzoj.nOjtwcu.j,nwufrglnunmyurce
“Rntjjvnwqnyusjn.cqkkj.nrgwqnuntqcwnqbnmqpgmronqbnhuce”

“Ucjnxqp--ucjnxqpntpcjnqbnwyrtnkrjmjnqbnrgwjoorljgmj?”ntwuvvjcj.
Lcjltqge

“Rnyusjn ptwnmqvjnbcqvnyrtncqqv,”ntur.nOjtwcu.jen“Rnhutnwyjnbrctwnwq
.rtmqsjcnhyuwnyu.nqmmpccj.e”

“HjnyusjnzjjgnyjucrglnLcjltqg’tnsrjhnqbnwyjnvuwwjc,”nYqovjtnqztjcsj.e
“Hqpo.nxqpnvrg.nojwwrglnptnfgqhnhyuwnxqpnyusjntjjgnug.n.qgj?”

“Rnyusjngqnqz jmwrqg,”nOjtwcu.jnugthjcj.,ntjuwrglnyrvtjoben“Rnbcjjox
mqgbjttnwyuwnRnhutnqbnwyjnqkrgrqgnwyuwnTwugljctqgnhutnmqgmjcgj.nrg
wyjn.juwynqbn.cjzzjcenWyrtnbcjtyn.jsjoqkvjgwnyutntyqhgnvjnwyuwnRnhut
mqvkojwjoxnvrtwufjgenBpoonqbnwyjnqgjnr.ju,nRntjwnvxtjobnwqnbrg.nqpw
hyuwnyu.nzjmqvjnqbnwyjnTjmcjwucxenWyjxnyu.nzjjgntjjgnwqljwyjcnuwnJptwqg
Twuwrqgnuzqpwnyuob-kutwnjrlywnqgnwyjnjsjgrglnqbnwyjnwyrc.enUwnwhqnrgnwyj
vqcgrgln.cjzzjcnyu.nzjjgnbqpg.nrgnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.enWyjnipjtwrqgnhyrmy
mqgbcqgwj.nvjnhutnwqnbrg.nqpwnyqhnTwugljctqgnyu.nzjjgnjvkoqxj.nzjwhjjg
8e30nug.nwyjnwrvjnqbnwyjnmcrvj,nug.nhyuwnyu.nzjmqvjnqbnyrvnubwjchuc.te
Rnwjojlcukyj.nwqnOrsjckqqo,nlrsrglnun.jtmcrkwrqgnqbnwyjnvug,nug.nhucgrgl
wyjvnwqnfjjknunhuwmynpkqgnwyjnUvjcrmugnzquwtenRnwyjgntjwnwqnhqcfnmuoorgl
pkqgnuoonwyjnyqwjotnug.noq.lrgl-yqptjtnrgnwyjnsrmrgrwxnqbnJptwqgenXqp
tjj,nRnuclpj.nwyuwnrbn.cjzzjcnug.nyrtnmqvkugrqgnyu.nzjmqvjntjkucuwj.,
wyjnguwpcuonmqpctjnbqcnwyjnouwwjcnhqpo.nzjnwqnkpwnpkntqvjhyjcjnrgnwyj
srmrgrwxnbqcnwyjngrlyw,nug.nwyjgnwqnyuglnuzqpwnwyjntwuwrqgnulurgngjaw
vqcgrgle”

“Wyjxnhqpo.nzjnorfjoxnwqnulcjjnqgntqvjnvjjwrgl-koumjnzjbqcjyug.,”
ncjvucfj.nYqovjte

“Tqnrwnkcqsj.enRntkjgwnwyjnhyqojnqbnxjtwjc.uxnjsjgrglnrgnvufrgl
jgiprcrjtnjgwrcjoxnhrwyqpwnusuroenWyrtnvqcgrglnRnzjlugnsjcxnjucox,nug.
uwnjrlywnq’moqmfnRncjumyj.nYuoor.ux’tnKcrsuwjnYqwjo,nrgnOrwwojnLjqclj
TwcjjwenQgnvxnjgiprcxnutnwqnhyjwyjcnunVcenTwugljctqgnhutnorsrglnwyjcj,
wyjxnuwnqgmjnugthjcj.nvjnrgnwyjnubbrcvuwrsje

“‘Gqn.qpzwnxqpnucjnwyjnljgwojvugnhyqvnyjnhutnjakjmwrgl,’nwyjxntur.en‘Yj
yutnzjjgnhurwrglnbqcnunljgwojvugnbqcnwhqn.uxte’

“‘Hyjcjnrtnyjngqh?’nRnutfj.e

“‘Yjnrtnpktwurctnrgnzj.enYjnhrtyj.nwqnzjnmuooj.nuwngrgje’

“‘Rnhroonlqnpknug.ntjjnyrvnuwnqgmj,’nRntur.e

“Rwntjjvj.nwqnvjnwyuwnvxntp..jgnukkjucugmjnvrlywntyufjnyrtngjcsjtnug.
oju.nyrvnwqntuxntqvjwyrglnpglpuc.j.enWyjnZqqwtnsqopgwjjcj.nwqntyqhnvj
wyjncqqv:nrwnhutnqgnwyjntjmqg.nboqqc,nug.nwyjcjnhutnuntvuoonmqccr.qc
oju.rglnpknwqnrwenWyjnZqqwtnkqrgwj.nqpwnwyjn.qqcnwqnvj,nug.nhutnuzqpwnwq
lqn.qhgtwurctnulurgnhyjgnRntuhntqvjwyrglnwyuwnvu.jnvjnbjjontrmfrty,nrg
tkrwjnqbnvxnwhjgwxnxjuct’njakjcrjgmjenBcqvnpg.jcnwyjn.qqcnwyjcjnmpcoj.
unorwwojncj.ncrzzqgnqbnzoqq.,nhyrmynyu.nvjug.jcj.numcqttnwyjnkuttuljnug.
bqcvj.nunorwwojnkqqonuoqglnwyjntfrcwrglnuwnwyjnqwyjcntr.jenRnlusjnunmcx,
hyrmynzcqplywnwyjnZqqwtnzumfenYjngjucoxnburgwj.nhyjgnyjntuhnrwenWyjn.qqc
hutnoqmfj.nqgnwyjnrgtr.j,nzpwnhjnkpwnqpcntyqpo.jctnwqnrw,nug.nfgqmfj.nrw
rgenWyjnhrg.qhnqbnwyjncqqvnhutnqkjg,nug.nzjtr.jnwyjnhrg.qh,nuoonyp..oj.
pk,nouxnwyjnzq.xnqbnunvugnrgnyrtngrlyw.cjttenYjnhutniprwjn.ju.,nug.nyu.
zjjgnbqcntqvjnwrvj,nbqcnyrtnorvztnhjcjncrlr.nug.nmqo.enHyjgnhjnwpcgj.
yrvnqsjc,nwyjnZqqwtncjmqlgrdj.nyrvnuwnqgmjnutnzjrglnwyjntuvjnljgwojvug
hyqnyu.njglulj.nwyjncqqvnpg.jcnwyjnguvjnqbn qtjkynTwugljctqgenWyjnmuptj
qbn.juwynhutnun.jjkntwuznrgnwyjnojbwntr.j,nhyrmynvptwnyusjnkjgjwcuwj.
wyjnyjucwenUg.ngqhnmqvjtnwyjntwcugljtwnkucwnqbnwyjnubburcenHyuwn.qnxqp
tpkkqtjnhutnuzqsjnwyjnvpc.jcj.nvug?”

Rnbjownunmcjjkrglnqbnwyjnbojty,nug.nunkcjtjgwrvjgwnqbnmqvrglnyqccqc,
jsjgnzjbqcjnTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnugthjcj.e

“Wyjnhqc.nCUMYJ,nhcrwwjgnrgnojwwjctnqbnzoqq.,”nyjntur.e

“Wyuwnhutnrw,”ntur.nOjtwcu.j,nrgnugnuhj-twcpmfnsqrmj;nug.nhjnhjcjnuoo
trojgwnbqcnunhyroje

Wyjcjnhutntqvjwyrglntqnvjwyq.rmuonug.ntqnrgmqvkcjyjgtrzojnuzqpwnwyj
.jj.tnqbnwyrtnpgfgqhgnuttuttrg,nwyuwnrwnrvkucwj.nunbcjtynlyutworgjttnwq
yrtnmcrvjtenVxngjcsjt,nhyrmynhjcjntwju.xnjgqplynqgnwyjnbrjo.nqbnzuwwoj
wrgloj.nutnRnwyqplywnqbnrwe

“Wyjnvugnhutntjjg,”nmqgwrgpj.nOjtwcu.jen“Unvrofnzqx,nkuttrglnqgnyrtnhux
wqnwyjn.urcx,nyukkjgj.nwqnhuofn.qhgnwyjnougjnhyrmynoju.tnbcqvnwyjnvjht
uwnwyjnzumfnqbnwyjnyqwjoenYjngqwrmj.nwyuwnunou..jc,nhyrmynptpuooxnoux
wyjcj,nhutncurtj.nulurgtwnqgjnqbnwyjnhrg.qhtnqbnwyjntjmqg.nboqqc,nhyrmy
hutnhr.jnqkjgenUbwjcnkuttrgl,nyjnoqqfj.nzumfnug.ntuhnunvugn.jtmjg.nwyj
ou..jcenYjnmuvjn.qhgntqniprjwoxnug.nqkjgoxnwyuwnwyjnzqxnrvulrgj.nyrvnwq
zjntqvjnmuckjgwjcnqcn qrgjcnuwnhqcfnrgnwyjnyqwjoenYjnwqqfngqnkucwrmpouc
gqwrmjnqbnyrv,nzjxqg.nwyrgfrglnrgnyrtnqhgnvrg.nwyuwnrwnhutnjucoxnbqcnyrv
wqnzjnuwnhqcfenYjnyutnugnrvkcjttrqgnwyuwnwyjnvugnhutnwuoo,nyu.nuncj..rty
bumj,nug.nhutn.cjttj.nrgnunoqgl,nzcqhgrtynmquwenYjnvptwnyusjntwuxj.nrg
wyjncqqvntqvjnorwwojnwrvjnubwjcnwyjnvpc.jc,nbqcnhjnbqpg.nzoqq.-twurgj.
huwjcnrgnwyjnzutrg,nhyjcjnyjnyu.nhutyj.nyrtnyug.t,nug.nvucftnqgnwyj
tyjjwtnhyjcjnyjnyu.n.jorzjcuwjoxnhrkj.nyrtnfgrbje”

Rnlougmj.nuwnYqovjtnqgnyjucrglnwyjn.jtmcrkwrqgnqbnwyjnvpc.jcjc,nhyrmy
wuoorj.ntqnjaumwoxnhrwynyrtnqhgenWyjcjnhut,nyqhjsjc,ngqnwcumjnqb
japowuwrqgnqcntuwrtbumwrqgnpkqgnyrtnbumje

“.r.nxqpnbrg.ngqwyrglnrgnwyjncqqvnhyrmynmqpo.nbpcgrtynunmopjnwqnwyj
vpc.jcjc?”nyjnutfj.e

“GqwyrglenTwugljctqgnyu.n.cjzzjc’tnkpctjnrgnyrtnkqmfjw,nzpwnrwntjjvt
wyuwnwyrtnhutnptpuo,nutnyjn.r.nuoonwyjnkuxrglenWyjcjnhutnjrlywxnq..
kqpg.tnrgnrw,nzpwngqwyrglnyu.nzjjgnwufjgenHyuwjsjcnwyjnvqwrsjtnqbnwyjtj
jawcuqc.rgucxnmcrvjt,ncqzzjcxnrtnmjcwurgoxngqwnqgjnqbnwyjvenWyjcjnhjcj
gqnkukjctnqcnvjvqcug.unrgnwyjnvpc.jcj.nvug’tnkqmfjw,njamjkwnuntrgloj
wjojlcuv,n.uwj.nbcqvnMojsjoug.nuzqpwnunvqgwynulq,nug.nmqgwurgrgl
wyjnhqc.t,n‘ enYenrtnrgnJpcqkje’nWyjcjnhutngqnguvjnukkjg.j.nwqnwyrt
vjttulje”

“Ug.nwyjcjnhutngqwyrglnjotj?”nYqovjtnutfj.e

“GqwyrglnqbnugxnrvkqcwugmjenWyjnvug’tngqsjo,nhrwynhyrmynyjnyu.ncju.
yrvtjobnwqntojjknhutnoxrglnpkqgnwyjnzj.,nug.nyrtnkrkjnhutnqgnunmyurc
zjtr.jnyrvenWyjcjnhutnunlouttnqbnhuwjcnqgnwyjnwuzoj,nug.nqgnwyj
hrg.qh-troonuntvuoonmyrknqrgwvjgwnzqanmqgwurgrglnunmqpkojnqbnkroote”

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtntkcuglnbcqvnyrtnmyurcnhrwynugnjamouvuwrqgnqbn.jorlywe

“Wyjnoutwnorgf,”nyjnmcrj.,njapowugwoxen“Vxnmutjnrtnmqvkojwje”

Wyjnwhqn.jwjmwrsjtntwucj.nuwnyrvnrgnuvudjvjgwe

“Rnyusjngqhnrgnvxnyug.t,”nvxnmqvkugrqgntur.,nmqgbr.jgwox,n“uoonwyj
wycju.tnhyrmynyusjnbqcvj.ntpmynunwuglojenWyjcjnucj,nqbnmqpctj,n.jwurot
wqnzjnbrooj.nrg,nzpwnRnuvnutnmjcwurgnqbnuoonwyjnvurgnbumwt,nbcqvnwyj
wrvjnwyuwn.cjzzjcnkucwj.nbcqvnTwugljctqgnuwnwyjntwuwrqg,npknwqnwyj
.rtmqsjcxnqbnwyjnzq.xnqbnwyjnouwwjc,nutnrbnRnyu.ntjjgnwyjvnhrwynvxnqhg
jxjtenRnhroonlrsjnxqpnunkcqqbnqbnvxnfgqhoj.ljenMqpo.nxqpnouxnxqpcnyug.
pkqgnwyqtjnkroot?”

“Rnyusjnwyjv,”ntur.nOjtwcu.j,nkcq.pmrglnuntvuoonhyrwjnzqa;n“Rnwqqfnwyjv
ug.nwyjnkpctjnug.nwyjnwjojlcuv,nrgwjg.rglnwqnyusjnwyjvnkpwnrgnunkoumjnqb
tubjwxnuwnwyjnKqormjnTwuwrqgenRwnhutnwyjnvjcjtwnmyugmjnvxnwufrglnwyjtj
kroot,nbqcnRnuvnzqpg.nwqntuxnwyuwnRn.qngqwnuwwumynugxnrvkqcwugmjnwq
wyjve”

“Lrsjnwyjvnyjcj,”ntur.nYqovjten“Gqh,n.qmwqc,”nwpcgrglnwqnvj,n“ucjnwyqtj
qc.rgucxnkroot?”

WyjxnmjcwurgoxnhjcjngqwenWyjxnhjcjnqbnunkjucoxnlcjxnmqoqpc,ntvuoo,
cqpg.,nug.nuovqtwnwcugtkucjgwnulurgtwnwyjnorlywen“Bcqvnwyjrcnorlywgjtt
ug.nwcugtkucjgmx,nRntyqpo.nrvulrgjnwyuwnwyjxnucjntqopzojnrgnhuwjc,”nR
cjvucfj.e

“Kcjmrtjoxntq,”nugthjcj.nYqovjten“Gqhnhqpo.nxqpnvrg.nlqrgln.qhgnug.
bjwmyrglnwyuwnkqqcnorwwojn.jsronqbnunwjccrjcnhyrmynyutnzjjgnzu.ntqnoqgl,
ug.nhyrmynwyjnoug.ou.xnhugwj.nxqpnwqnkpwnqpwnqbnrwtnkurgnxjtwjc.uxe”

Rnhjgwn.qhgtwurctnug.nmuccrj.nwyjn.qlnpktwurcnrgnvxnucvtenRw’tnouzqpcj.
zcjuwyrglnug.nloudrglnjxjntyqhj.nwyuwnrwnhutngqwnbucnbcqvnrwtnjg.e
Rg.jj.,nrwtntgqh-hyrwjnvpddojnkcqmourvj.nwyuwnrwnyu.nuocju.xnjamjj.j.
wyjnptpuonwjcvnqbnmugrgjnjartwjgmjenRnkoumj.nrwnpkqgnunmptyrqgnqgnwyj
cple

“Rnhroongqhnmpwnqgjnqbnwyjtjnkrootnrgnwhq,”ntur.nYqovjt,nug.n.cuhrglnyrt
kjgfgrbjnyjntprwj.nwyjnumwrqgnwqnwyjnhqc.en“Qgjnyuobnhjncjwpcgnrgwqnwyj
zqanbqcnbpwpcjnkpckqtjtenWyjnqwyjcnyuobnRnhroonkoumjnrgnwyrtnhrgjnloutt,
rgnhyrmynrtnunwjutkqqgbponqbnhuwjcenXqpnkjcmjrsjnwyuwnqpcnbcrjg.,nwyj
.qmwqc,nrtncrlyw,nug.nwyuwnrwncju.roxn.rttqosjte”

“Wyrtnvuxnzjnsjcxnrgwjcjtwrgl,”ntur.nOjtwcu.j,nrgnwyjnrg pcj.nwqgjnqb
qgjnhyqntptkjmwtnwyuwnyjnrtnzjrglnouplyj.nuw,n“Rnmuggqwntjj,nyqhjsjc,
hyuwnrwnyutnwqn.qnhrwynwyjn.juwynqbnVcen qtjkynTwugljctqge”

“Kuwrjgmj,nvxnbcrjg.,nkuwrjgmj!nXqpnhroonbrg.nrgnwrvjnwyuwnrwnyut
jsjcxwyrglnwqn.qnhrwynrwenRntyuoongqhnu..nunorwwojnvrofnwqnvufjnwyj
vrawpcjnkuouwuzoj,nug.nqgnkcjtjgwrglnrwnwqnwyjn.qlnhjnbrg.nwyuwnyjnoukt
rwnpkncju.roxnjgqplye”

Utnyjntkqfjnyjnwpcgj.nwyjnmqgwjgwtnqbnwyjnhrgjnlouttnrgwqnuntupmjcnug.
koumj.nrwnrgnbcqgwnqbnwyjnwjccrjc,nhyqntkjj.roxnormfj.nrwn.cxenTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt’njucgjtwn.jvjugqpcnyu.ntqnbucnmqgsrgmj.nptnwyuwnhjnuoontuwnrg
trojgmj,nhuwmyrglnwyjnugrvuonrgwjgwox,nug.njakjmwrglntqvjntwucworgl
jbbjmwenGqgjntpmynukkjucj.,nyqhjsjcenWyjn.qlnmqgwrgpj.nwqnorjntwcjwmyj.
pkqgnwyqn[16]nmptyrqg,nzcjuwyrglnrgnunouzqpcj.nhux,nzpwnukkucjgwox
gjrwyjcnwyjnzjwwjcngqcnwyjnhqctjnbqcnrwtn.cuplywe

Yqovjtnyu.nwufjgnqpwnyrtnhuwmy,nug.nutnvrgpwjnbqooqhj.nvrgpwjnhrwyqpw
cjtpow,nugnjakcjttrqgnqbnwyjnpwvqtwnmyulcrgnug.n.rtukkqrgwvjgwnukkjucj.
pkqgnyrtnbjuwpcjtenYjnlguhj.nyrtnork,n.cpvvj.nyrtnbrgljctnpkqgnwyj
wuzoj,nug.ntyqhj.njsjcxnqwyjcntxvkwqvnqbnumpwjnrvkuwrjgmjenTqnlcjuw
hutnyrtnjvqwrqg,nwyuwnRnbjowntrgmjcjoxntqccxnbqcnyrv,nhyrojnwyjnwhq
.jwjmwrsjtntvroj.n.jcrtrsjox,nzxngqnvjugtn.rtkojutj.nuwnwyrtnmyjmfnhyrmy
yjnyu.nvjwe

“Rwnmug’wnzjnunmqrgmr.jgmj,”nyjnmcrj.,nuwnoutwntkcrglrglnbcqvnyrtnmyurc
ug.nkumrglnhro.oxnpknug.n.qhgnwyjncqqv;n“rwnrtnrvkqttrzojnwyuwnrwntyqpo.
zjnunvjcjnmqrgmr.jgmjenWyjnsjcxnkrootnhyrmynRntptkjmwj.nrgnwyjnmutjnqb
.cjzzjcnucjnumwpuooxnbqpg.nubwjcnwyjn.juwynqbnTwugljctqgenUg.nxjwnwyjx
ucjnrgjcwenHyuwnmugnrwnvjug?nTpcjoxnvxnhyqojnmyurgnqbncjutqgrglnmuggqw
yusjnzjjgnbuotjenRwnrtnrvkqttrzoj!nUg.nxjwnwyrtnhcjwmyj.n.qlnrtngqgjnwyj
hqctjenUy,nRnyusjnrw!nRnyusjnrw!”nHrwynunkjcbjmwntycrjfnqbn.jorlywnyj
cptyj.nwqnwyjnzqa,nmpwnwyjnqwyjcnkroonrgnwhq,n.rttqosj.nrw,nu..j.nvrof,
ug.nkcjtjgwj.nrwnwqnwyjnwjccrjcenWyjnpgbqcwpguwjnmcjuwpcj’tnwqglpj
tjjvj.nyuc.oxnwqnyusjnzjjgnvqrtwjgj.nrgnrwnzjbqcjnrwnlusjnunmqgspotrsj
tyrsjcnrgnjsjcxnorvz,nug.nouxnutncrlr.nug.norbjojttnutnrbnrwnyu.nzjjg
twcpmfnzxnorlywgrgle

TyjcoqmfnYqovjtn.cjhnunoqglnzcjuwy,nug.nhrkj.nwyjnkjctkrcuwrqgnbcqvnyrt
bqcjyju.en“Rntyqpo.nyusjnvqcjnburwy,”nyjntur.;n“Rnqplywnwqnfgqhnzx
wyrtnwrvjnwyuwnhyjgnunbumwnukkjuctnwqnzjnqkkqtj.nwqnunoqglnwcurgnqb
.j.pmwrqgt,nrwnrgsucruzoxnkcqsjtnwqnzjnmukuzojnqbnzjucrglntqvjnqwyjc
rgwjckcjwuwrqgenQbnwyjnwhqnkrootnrgnwyuwnzqanqgjnhutnqbnwyjnvqtwn.ju.ox
kqrtqg,nug.nwyjnqwyjcnhutnjgwrcjoxnyucvojttenRnqplywnwqnyusjnfgqhgnwyuw
zjbqcjnjsjcnRntuhnwyjnzqanuwnuooe”

Wyrtnoutwntwuwjvjgwnukkjucj.nwqnvjnwqnzjntqntwucworgl,nwyuwnRnmqpo.
yuc.oxnzjorjsjnwyuwnyjnhutnrgnyrtntqzjcntjgtjtenWyjcjnhutnwyjn.ju.n.ql,
yqhjsjc,nwqnkcqsjnwyuwnyrtnmqg jmwpcjnyu.nzjjgnmqccjmwenRwntjjvj.nwqnvj
wyuwnwyjnvrtwtnrgnvxnqhgnvrg.nhjcjnlcu.puooxnmojucrglnuhux,nug.nRnzjlug
wqnyusjnun.rv,nsulpjnkjcmjkwrqgnqbnwyjnwcpwye

“Uoonwyrtntjjvtntwcugljnwqnxqp,”nmqgwrgpj.nYqovjt,n“zjmuptjnxqpnburoj.
uwnwyjnzjlrggrglnqbnwyjnrgiprcxnwqnlcutknwyjnrvkqcwugmjnqbnwyjntrgloj
cjuonmopjnhyrmynhutnkcjtjgwj.nwqnxqpenRnyu.nwyjnlqq.nbqcwpgjnwqntjrdj
pkqgnwyuw,nug.njsjcxwyrglnhyrmynyutnqmmpccj.ntrgmjnwyjgnyutntjcsj.nwq
mqgbrcvnvxnqcrlrguontpkkqtrwrqg,nug.,nrg.jj.,nhutnwyjnoqlrmuontjipjgmj
qbnrwenYjgmjnwyrgltnhyrmynyusjnkjckojaj.nxqpnug.nvu.jnwyjnmutjnvqcj
qztmpcj,nyusjntjcsj.nwqnjgorlywjgnvjnug.nwqntwcjglwyjgnvxnmqgmoptrqgte
Rwnrtnunvrtwufjnwqnmqgbqpg.ntwcugljgjttnhrwynvxtwjcxenWyjnvqtw
mqvvqgkoumjnmcrvjnrtnqbwjgnwyjnvqtwnvxtwjcrqptnzjmuptjnrwnkcjtjgwtngq
gjhnqcntkjmruonbjuwpcjtnbcqvnhyrmyn.j.pmwrqgtnvuxnzjn.cuhgenWyrtnvpc.jc
hqpo.nyusjnzjjgnrgbrgrwjoxnvqcjn.rbbrmpownwqnpgcusjonyu.nwyjnzq.xnqb
wyjnsrmwrvnzjjgntrvkoxnbqpg.noxrglnrgnwyjncqu.huxnhrwyqpwnugxnqb
wyqtjn_qpwcé_nug.ntjgtuwrqguonummqvkugrvjgwtnhyrmynyusjncjg.jcj.
rwncjvucfuzojenWyjtjntwcugljn.jwurot,nbucnbcqvnvufrglnwyjnmutjnvqcj
.rbbrmpow,nyusjncjuooxnyu.nwyjnjbbjmwnqbnvufrglnrwnojttntqe”

VcenLcjltqg,nhyqnyu.nortwjgj.nwqnwyrtnu..cjttnhrwynmqgtr.jcuzoj
rvkuwrjgmj,nmqpo.nmqgwurgnyrvtjobngqnoqgljcen“Oqqfnyjcj,nVcenTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt,”nyjntur.,n“hjnucjnuooncju.xnwqnumfgqhoj.ljnwyuwnxqpnucjnuntvucw
vug,nug.nwyuwnxqpnyusjnxqpcnqhgnvjwyq.tnqbnhqcfrglenHjnhugwntqvjwyrgl
vqcjnwyugnvjcjnwyjqcxnug.nkcjumyrglngqh,nwyqplyenRwnrtnunmutjnqbnwufrgl
wyjnvugenRnyusjnvu.jnvxnmutjnqpw,nug.nrwntjjvtnRnhutnhcqglenXqpgl
Myuckjgwrjcnmqpo.ngqwnyusjnzjjgnjglulj.nrgnwyrtntjmqg.nubburcenOjtwcu.j
hjgwnubwjcnyrtnvug,nTwugljctqg,nug.nrwnukkjuctnwyuwnyjnhutnhcqglnwqqe
Xqpnyusjnwycqhgnqpwnyrgwtnyjcj,nug.nyrgwtnwyjcj,nug.ntjjvnwqnfgqhnvqcj
wyugnhjn.q,nzpwnwyjnwrvjnyutnmqvjnhyjgnhjnbjjonwyuwnhjnyusjnuncrlywnwq
utfnxqpntwcurlywnyqhnvpmynxqpn.qnfgqhnqbnwyjnzptrgjttenMugnxqpnguvjnwyj
vugnhyqn.r.nrw?”

“RnmuggqwnyjoknbjjorglnwyuwnLcjltqgnrtncrlyw,ntrc,”ncjvucfj.nOjtwcu.je
“Hjnyusjnzqwynwcrj.,nug.nhjnyusjnzqwynburoj.enXqpnyusjncjvucfj.nvqcj
wyugnqgmjntrgmjnRnyusjnzjjgnrgnwyjncqqvnwyuwnxqpnyu.nuoonwyjnjsr.jgmj
hyrmynxqpncjiprcjenTpcjoxnxqpnhroongqwnhrwyyqo.nrwnugxnoqgljce”

“Ugxn.jouxnrgnuccjtwrglnwyjnuttuttrg,”nRnqztjcsj.,n“vrlywnlrsjnyrvnwrvj
wqnkjckjwcuwjntqvjnbcjtynuwcqmrwxe”

Wyptnkcjttj.nzxnptnuoo,nYqovjtntyqhj.ntrlgtnqbnrccjtqopwrqgenYj
mqgwrgpj.nwqnhuofnpknug.n.qhgnwyjncqqvnhrwynyrtnyju.ntpgfnqgnyrtnmyjtw
ug.nyrtnzcqhtn.cuhgn.qhg,nutnhutnyrtnyuzrwnhyjgnoqtwnrgnwyqplywe

“Wyjcjnhroonzjngqnvqcjnvpc.jct,”nyjntur.nuwnoutw,ntwqkkrglnuzcpkwoxnug.
bumrglnpten“Xqpnmugnkpwnwyuwnmqgtr.jcuwrqgnqpwnqbnwyjnipjtwrqgenXqpnyusj
utfj.nvjnrbnRnfgqhnwyjnguvjnqbnwyjnuttuttrgenRn.qenWyjnvjcjnfgqhrglnqb
yrtnguvjnrtnuntvuoonwyrgl,nyqhjsjc,nmqvkucj.nhrwynwyjnkqhjcnqbnouxrgl
qpcnyug.tnpkqgnyrvenWyrtnRnjakjmwnsjcxntyqcwoxnwqn.qenRnyusjnlqq.nyqkjt
qbnvugulrglnrwnwycqplynvxnqhgnuccugljvjgwt;nzpwnrwnrtnunwyrglnhyrmy
gjj.tn.jormuwjnyug.orgl,nbqcnhjnyusjnuntycjh.nug.n.jtkjcuwjnvugnwqn.juo
hrwy,nhyqnrtntpkkqcwj.,nutnRnyusjnyu.nqmmutrqgnwqnkcqsj,nzxnugqwyjcnhyq
rtnutnmojsjcnutnyrvtjobenUtnoqglnutnwyrtnvugnyutngqnr.junwyuwnugxqgj
mugnyusjnunmopjnwyjcjnrtntqvjnmyugmjnqbntjmpcrglnyrv;nzpwnrbnyjnyu.nwyj
torlywjtwntptkrmrqg,nyjnhqpo.nmyugljnyrtnguvj,nug.nsugrtynrgnugnrgtwugw
uvqglnwyjnbqpcnvroorqgnrgyuzrwugwtnqbnwyrtnlcjuwnmrwxenHrwyqpwnvjugrgl
wqnypcwnjrwyjcnqbnxqpcnbjjorglt,nRnuvnzqpg.nwqntuxnwyuwnRnmqgtr.jcnwyjtj
vjgnwqnzjnvqcjnwyugnunvuwmynbqcnwyjnqbbrmruonbqcmj,nug.nwyuwnrtnhyxnR
yusjngqwnutfj.nxqpcnuttrtwugmjenRbnRnburonRntyuoo,nqbnmqpctj,nrgmpcnuoo
wyjnzouvjn.pjnwqnwyrtnqvrttrqg;nzpwnwyuwnRnuvnkcjkucj.nbqcenUwnkcjtjgw
Rnuvncju.xnwqnkcqvrtjnwyuwnwyjnrgtwugwnwyuwnRnmugnmqvvpgrmuwjnhrwynxqp
hrwyqpwnjg.ugljcrglnvxnqhgnmqvzrguwrqgt,nRntyuoon.qntqe”

Lcjltqgnug.nOjtwcu.jntjjvj.nwqnzjnbucnbcqvntuwrtbrj.nzxnwyrtnuttpcugmj,
qcnzxnwyjn.jkcjmruwrglnuooptrqgnwqnwyjn.jwjmwrsjnkqormjenWyjnbqcvjcnyu.
boptyj.npknwqnwyjncqqwtnqbnyrtnbouajgnyurc,nhyrojnwyjnqwyjc’tnzju.xnjxjt
lortwjgj.nhrwynmpcrqtrwxnug.ncjtjgwvjgwenGjrwyjcnqbnwyjvnyu.nwrvjnwq
tkjuf,nyqhjsjc,nzjbqcjnwyjcjnhutnunwuknuwnwyjn.qqc,nug.nwyjntkqfjtvug
qbnwyjntwcjjwnUcuzt,nxqpglnHrllrgt,nrgwcq.pmj.nyrtnrgtrlgrbrmugwnug.
pgtusqpcxnkjctqge

“Kojutj,ntrc,”nyjntur.,nwqpmyrglnyrtnbqcjoqmf,n“Rnyusjnwyjnmuz
.qhgtwurcte”

“Lqq.nzqx,”ntur.nYqovjt,nzoug.oxen“Hyxn.qg’wnxqpnrgwcq.pmjnwyrtnkuwwjcg
uwnTmqwoug.nXuc.?”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nwufrglnunkurcnqbntwjjonyug.mpbbtnbcqv
un.cuhjcen“TjjnyqhnzjupwrbpooxnwyjntkcrglnhqcftenWyjxnbutwjgnrgnug
rgtwugwe”

“Wyjnqo.nkuwwjcgnrtnlqq.njgqply,”ncjvucfj.nOjtwcu.j,n“rbnhjnmugnqgox
brg.nwyjnvugnwqnkpwnwyjvnqge”

“Sjcxnlqq.,nsjcxnlqq.,”ntur.nYqovjt,ntvrorglen“Wyjnmuzvugnvuxnutnhjoo
yjoknvjnhrwynvxnzqajten ptwnutfnyrvnwqntwjknpk,nHrllrgte”

Rnhutntpckcrtj.nwqnbrg.nvxnmqvkugrqgntkjufrglnutnwyqplynyjnhjcjnuzqpw
wqntjwnqpwnqgnun qpcgjx,ntrgmjnyjnyu.ngqwntur.nugxwyrglnwqnvjnuzqpwnrwe
Wyjcjnhutnuntvuoonkqcwvugwjupnrgnwyjncqqv,nug.nwyrtnyjnkpooj.nqpwnug.
zjlugnwqntwcukenYjnhutnzptroxnjglulj.nuwnrwnhyjgnwyjnmuzvugnjgwjcj.nwyj
cqqve

“ ptwnlrsjnvjnunyjoknhrwynwyrtnzpmfoj,nmuzvug,”nyjntur.,nfgjjorglnqsjc
yrtnwutf,nug.ngjsjcnwpcgrglnyrtnyju.e

Wyjnbjooqhnmuvjnbqchuc.nhrwynuntqvjhyuwntpoojg,n.jbrugwnurc,nug.nkpw
.qhgnyrtnyug.tnwqnuttrtwenUwnwyuwnrgtwugwnwyjcjnhutnuntyucknmormf,nwyj
 uglorglnqbnvjwuo,nug.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjwnulurge

“Ljgwojvjg,”nyjnmcrj.,nhrwynboutyrglnjxjt,n“ojwnvjnrgwcq.pmjnxqpnwqnVce
 jbbjctqgnYqkj,nwyjnvpc.jcjcnqbnJgqmyn.cjzzjcnug.nqbn qtjkynTwugljctqge”

Wyjnhyqojnwyrglnqmmpccj.nrgnunvqvjgw--tqniprmfoxnwyuwnRnyu.ngqnwrvj
wqncjuordjnrwenRnyusjnunsrsr.ncjmqoojmwrqgnqbnwyuwnrgtwugw,nqbnYqovjt’
wcrpvkyugwnjakcjttrqgnug.nwyjncrglnqbnyrtnsqrmj,nqbnwyjnmuzvug’t
.udj.,ntusuljnbumj,nutnyjnloucj.nuwnwyjnlorwwjcrglnyug.mpbbt,nhyrmynyu.
ukkjucj.nutnrbnzxnvulrmnpkqgnyrtnhcrtwtenBqcnuntjmqg.nqcnwhqnhjnvrlyw
yusjnzjjgnunlcqpknqbntwuwpjtenWyjg,nhrwynugnrgucwrmpouwjncqucnqbnbpcx,
wyjnkcrtqgjcnhcjgmyj.nyrvtjobnbcjjnbcqvnYqovjt’tnlcutk,nug.nypcoj.
yrvtjobnwycqplynwyjnhrg.qhenHqq.hqcfnug.nlouttnlusjnhuxnzjbqcjnyrv;nzpw
zjbqcjnyjnlqwniprwjnwycqply,nLcjltqg,nOjtwcu.j,nug.nYqovjtntkcuglnpkqg
yrvnorfjntqnvugxntwulyqpg.tenYjnhutn.cullj.nzumfnrgwqnwyjncqqv,nug.nwyjg
mqvvjgmj.nunwjccrbrmnmqgbormwenTqnkqhjcbponug.ntqnbrjcmjnhutnyj,nwyuw
wyjnbqpcnqbnptnhjcjntyufjgnqbbnulurgnug.nulurgenYjnukkjucj.nwqnyusjnwyj
mqgspotrsjntwcjglwynqbnunvugnrgnugnjkrojkwrmnbrwenYrtnbumjnug.nyug.t
hjcjnwjccrzoxnvugloj.nzxnyrtnkuttuljnwycqplynwyjnloutt,nzpwnoqttnqb
zoqq.nyu.ngqnjbbjmwnrgn.rvrgrtyrglnyrtncjtrtwugmjenRwnhutngqwnpgwro
Ojtwcu.jntpmmjj.j.nrgnljwwrglnyrtnyug.nrgtr.jnyrtngjmfmoqwynug.
yuob-twcuglorglnyrvnwyuwnhjnvu.jnyrvncjuordjnwyuwnyrtntwcpllojtnhjcjnqb
gqnusuro;nug.njsjgnwyjgnhjnbjowngqntjmpcrwxnpgwronhjnyu.nkrgrqgj.nyrt
bjjwnutnhjoonutnyrtnyug.tenWyuwn.qgj,nhjncqtjnwqnqpcnbjjwnzcjuwyojttnug.
kugwrgle

“Hjnyusjnyrtnmuz,”ntur.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjten“Rwnhroontjcsjnwqnwufjnyrvnwq
Tmqwoug.nXuc.enUg.ngqh,nljgwojvjg,”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nhrwynunkojutugwntvroj,
“hjnyusjncjumyj.nwyjnjg.nqbnqpcnorwwojnvxtwjcxenXqpnucjnsjcxnhjomqvjnwq
kpwnugxnipjtwrqgtnwyuwnxqpnorfjnwqnvjngqh,nug.nwyjcjnrtngqn.ugljcnwyuwnR
hrooncjbptjnwqnugthjcnwyjve”





KUCWnRRen_WyjnMqpgwcxnqbnwyjnTurgwte_




MYUKWJCnRenQGnWYJnLCJUWnUOFUORnKOURGe


RGnwyjnmjgwcuonkqcwrqgnqbnwyjnlcjuwnGqcwynUvjcrmugnMqgwrgjgwnwyjcjnorjt
ugnucr.nug.ncjkpotrsjn.jtjcw,nhyrmynbqcnvugxnunoqglnxjucntjcsj.nutnu
zuccrjcnulurgtwnwyjnu.sugmjnqbnmrsrortuwrqgenBcqvnwyjnTrjccunGjsu.unwq
Gjzcutfu,nug.nbcqvnwyjnXjooqhtwqgjnCrsjcnrgnwyjngqcwynwqnwyjnMqoqcu.q
pkqgnwyjntqpwy,nrtnuncjlrqgnqbn.jtqouwrqgnug.ntrojgmjenGqcnrtnGuwpcj
uohuxtnrgnqgjnvqq.nwycqplyqpwnwyrtnlcrvn.rtwcrmwenRwnmqvkcrtjt
tgqh-mukkj.nug.noqbwxnvqpgwurgt,nug.n.ucfnug.nloqqvxnsuoojxtenWyjcjnucj
thrbw-boqhrglncrsjctnhyrmyn.utynwycqplyn ullj.nmuñqgt;nug.nwyjcjnucj
jgqcvqptnkourgt,nhyrmynrgnhrgwjcnucjnhyrwjnhrwyntgqh,nug.nrgntpvvjcnucj
lcjxnhrwynwyjntuorgjnuofuorn.ptwenWyjxnuoonkcjtjcsj,nyqhjsjc,nwyjnmqvvqg
myucumwjcrtwrmtnqbnzuccjggjtt,nrgyqtkrwuorwx,nug.nvrtjcxe

Wyjcjnucjngqnrgyuzrwugwtnqbnwyrtnoug.nqbn.jtkurcenUnzug.nqbnKuhgjjt
qcnqbnZoumfbjjwnvuxnqmmutrqguooxnwcusjctjnrwnrgnqc.jcnwqncjumynqwyjc
ypgwrgl-lcqpg.t,nzpwnwyjnyuc.rjtwnqbnwyjnzcusjtnucjnlou.nwqnoqtjntrlyw
qbnwyqtjnuhjtqvjnkourgt,nug.nwqnbrg.nwyjvtjosjtnqgmjnvqcjnpkqgnwyjrc
kcurcrjtenWyjnmqxqwjntfpoftnuvqglnwyjntmcpz,nwyjnzpdduc.nbouktnyjusrox
wycqplynwyjnurc,nug.nwyjnmopvtxnlcrddoxnzjucnopvzjctnwycqplynwyjn.ucf
cusrgjt,nug.nkrmftnpkntpmyntptwjgugmjnutnrwnmugnuvqgltwnwyjncqmftenWyjtj
ucjnwyjntqojn.hjoojctnrgnwyjnhro.jcgjtte

Rgnwyjnhyqojnhqco.nwyjcjnmugnzjngqnvqcjn.cjucxnsrjhnwyugnwyuwnbcqv
wyjngqcwyjcgntoqkjnqbnwyjnTrjccunZougmqenUtnbucnutnwyjnjxjnmugncjumy
twcjwmyjtnwyjnlcjuwnbouwnkourg-oug.,nuoon.ptwj.nqsjcnhrwynkuwmyjtnqb
uofuor,nug.nrgwjctjmwj.nzxnmopvktnqbnwyjn.hucbrtynmyukuccuonzptyjtenQg
wyjnjawcjvjnsjcljnqbnwyjnyqcrdqgnorjnunoqglnmyurgnqbnvqpgwurgnkjuft,
hrwynwyjrcncpllj.ntpvvrwtnbojmfj.nhrwyntgqhenRgnwyrtnlcjuwntwcjwmynqb
mqpgwcxnwyjcjnrtngqntrlgnqbnorbj,ngqcnqbnugxwyrglnukkjcwurgrglnwqnorbje
Wyjcjnrtngqnzrc.nrgnwyjntwjjo-zopjnyjusjg,ngqnvqsjvjgwnpkqgnwyjn.poo,
lcjxnjucwy--uzqsjnuoo,nwyjcjnrtnuztqopwjntrojgmjenOrtwjgnutnqgjnvux,
wyjcjnrtngqntyu.qhnqbnuntqpg.nrgnuoonwyuwnvrlywxnhro.jcgjtt;ngqwyrglnzpw
trojgmj--mqvkojwjnug.nyjucw-tpz.prglntrojgmje

Rwnyutnzjjgntur.nwyjcjnrtngqwyrglnukkjcwurgrglnwqnorbjnpkqgnwyjnzcqu.
kourgenWyuwnrtnyuc.oxnwcpjenOqqfrgln.qhgnbcqvnwyjnTrjccunZougmq,nqgj
tjjtnunkuwyhuxnwcumj.nqpwnumcqttnwyjn.jtjcw,nhyrmynhrg.tnuhuxnug.nrt
oqtwnrgnwyjnjawcjvjn.rtwugmjenRwnrtncpwwj.nhrwynhyjjotnug.nwcq..jgn.qhg
zxnwyjnbjjwnqbnvugxnu.sjgwpcjctenYjcjnug.nwyjcjnwyjcjnucjntmuwwjcj.
hyrwjnqz jmwtnhyrmynlortwjgnrgnwyjntpg,nug.ntwug.nqpwnulurgtwnwyjn.poo
.jkqtrwnqbnuofuorenUkkcqumy,nug.njauvrgjnwyjv!nWyjxnucjnzqgjt:ntqvj
oucljnug.nmquctj,nqwyjctntvuoojcnug.nvqcjn.jormuwjenWyjnbqcvjcnyusj
zjoqglj.nwqnqajg,nug.nwyjnouwwjcnwqnvjgenBqcnbrbwjjgnypg.cj.nvrojtnqgj
vuxnwcumjnwyrtnlyutwoxnmucusugncqpwjnzxnwyjtjntmuwwjcj.ncjvurgtnqbnwyqtj
hyqnyu.nbuoojgnzxnwyjnhuxtr.je

Oqqfrgln.qhgnqgnwyrtnsjcxntmjgj,nwyjcjntwqq.npkqgnwyjnbqpcwynqbnVux,
jrlywjjgnypg.cj.nug.nbqcwx-tjsjg,nuntqorwucxnwcusjoojcenYrtnukkjucugmj
hutntpmynwyuwnyjnvrlywnyusjnzjjgnwyjnsjcxnljgrptnqcn.jvqgnqbnwyjncjlrqge
Ugnqztjcsjcnhqpo.nyusjnbqpg.nrwn.rbbrmpownwqntuxnhyjwyjcnyjnhutngjucjc
wqnbqcwxnqcnwqntrawxenYrtnbumjnhutnojugnug.nyulluc.,nug.nwyjnzcqhg
kucmyvjgw-orfjntfrgnhutn.cuhgnwrlywoxnqsjcnwyjnkcq jmwrglnzqgjt;nyrt
oqgl,nzcqhgnyurcnug.nzjuc.nhjcjnuoonbojmfj.nug.n.utyj.nhrwynhyrwj;nyrt
jxjtnhjcjntpgfjgnrgnyrtnyju.,nug.nzpcgj.nhrwynugnpgguwpcuonoptwcj;nhyroj
wyjnyug.nhyrmynlcutkj.nyrtncrbojnhutnyuc.oxnvqcjnbojtyxnwyugnwyuwnqbnu
tfjojwqgenUtnyjntwqq.,nyjnojugj.npkqgnyrtnhjukqgnbqcntpkkqcw,nug.nxjw
yrtnwuoonbrlpcjnug.nwyjnvuttrsjnbcuvjhqcfnqbnyrtnzqgjtntplljtwj.nunhrcx
ug.nsrlqcqptnmqgtwrwpwrqgenYrtnlupgwnbumj,nyqhjsjc,nug.nyrtnmoqwyjt,
hyrmynypglntqnzullroxnqsjcnyrtntycrsjooj.norvzt,nkcqmourvj.nhyuwnrw
hutnwyuwnlusjnyrvnwyuwntjgrojnug.n.jmcjkrwnukkjucugmjenWyjnvugnhut
.xrgl--.xrglnbcqvnypgljcnug.nbcqvnwyrctwe

Yjnyu.nwqroj.nkurgbpooxn.qhgnwyjncusrgj,nug.nqgnwqnwyrtnorwwoj
jojsuwrqg,nrgnwyjnsurgnyqkjnqbntjjrglntqvjntrlgtnqbnhuwjcenGqhnwyjnlcjuw
tuownkourgntwcjwmyj.nzjbqcjnyrtnjxjt,nug.nwyjn.rtwugwnzjownqbntusulj
vqpgwurgt,nhrwyqpwnuntrlgnugxhyjcjnqbnkougwnqcnwcjj,nhyrmynvrlyw
rg.rmuwjnwyjnkcjtjgmjnqbnvqrtwpcjenRgnuoonwyuwnzcqu.noug.tmukjnwyjcj
hutngqnlojuvnqbnyqkjenGqcwy,nug.njutw,nug.nhjtwnyjnoqqfj.nhrwynhro.
ipjtwrqgrglnjxjt,nug.nwyjgnyjncjuortj.nwyuwnyrtnhug.jcrgltnyu.nmqvjnwq
ugnjg.,nug.nwyuwnwyjcj,nqgnwyuwnzuccjgnmcul,nyjnhutnuzqpwnwqn.rjen“Hyx
gqwnyjcj,nutnhjoonutnrgnunbjuwyjcnzj.,nwhjgwxnxjuctnyjgmj,”nyjnvpwwjcj.,
utnyjntjuwj.nyrvtjobnrgnwyjntyjowjcnqbnunzqpo.jce

Zjbqcjntrwwrgln.qhg,nyjnyu.n.jkqtrwj.npkqgnwyjnlcqpg.nyrtnptjojttncrboj,
ug.nuotqnunoucljnzpg.ojnwrj.npknrgnunlcjxntyuho,nhyrmynyjnyu.nmuccrj.
topglnqsjcnyrtncrlywntyqpo.jcenRwnukkjucj.nwqnzjntqvjhyuwnwqqnyjusxnbqc
yrtntwcjglwy,nbqcnrgnoqhjcrglnrw,nrwnmuvjn.qhgnqgnwyjnlcqpg.nhrwyntqvj
orwwojnsrqojgmjenRgtwugwoxnwyjcjnzcqfjnbcqvnwyjnlcjxnkucmjonunorwwoj
vqugrglnmcx,nug.nbcqvnrwnwyjcjnkcqwcp.j.nuntvuoo,ntmucj.nbumj,nhrwynsjcx
zcrlywnzcqhgnjxjt,nug.nwhqnorwwojntkjmfoj.,n.rvkoj.nbrtwte

“Xqp’sjnypcwnvj!”ntur.nunmyro.rtynsqrmjncjkcqumybpooxe

“YusjnRnwyqply,”nwyjnvugnugthjcj.nkjgrwjgwox,n“Rn.r.g’wnlqnbqcnwqn.q
rwe”nUtnyjntkqfjnyjnpghcukkj.nwyjnlcjxntyuhonug.njawcrmuwj.nunkcjwwx
orwwojnlrconqbnuzqpwnbrsjnxjuctnqbnulj,nhyqtjn.urgwxntyqjtnug.ntvucw
krgfnbcqmfnhrwynrwtnorwwojnorgjgnukcqgnuoonzjtkqfjnunvqwyjc’tnmucjenWyj
myro.nhutnkuojnug.nhug,nzpwnyjcnyjuowyxnucvtnug.nojltntyqhj.nwyuwntyj
yu.ntpbbjcj.nojttnwyugnyjcnmqvkugrqge

“Yqhnrtnrwngqh?”nyjnugthjcj.nugarqptox,nbqcntyjnhutntwrooncpzzrglnwyj
wqhtxnlqo.jgnmpcotnhyrmynmqsjcj.nwyjnzumfnqbnyjcnyju.e

“Frttnrwnug.nvufjnrwnhjoo,”ntyjntur.,nhrwynkjcbjmwnlcusrwx,ntyqsrgl
[19]nwyjnrg pcj.nkucwnpknwqnyrven“Wyuw’tnhyuwnvqwyjcnptj.nwqn.qenHyjcj’t
vqwyjc?”

“Vqwyjc’tnlqgjenRnlpjttnxqp’oontjjnyjcnzjbqcjnoqgle”

“Lqgj,njy!”ntur.nwyjnorwwojnlrcoen“Bpggx,ntyjn.r.g’wntuxnlqq.-zxj;ntyj
‘vqtwnuohuxtn.r.nrbntyjnhutn ptwnlqrg’nqsjcnwqnUpgwrj’tnbqcnwju,nug.ngqh
tyj’tnzjjgnuhuxnwycjjn.uxtenTux,nrw’tnuhbpon.cx,nurg’wnrw?nUrg’wnwyjcj
gqnhuwjc,ngqcngqwyrglnwqnjuw?”

“Gq,nwyjcjnurg’wngqwyrgl,n.jucrjenXqp’oon ptwngjj.nwqnzjnkuwrjgwnuhyroj,
ug.nwyjgnxqp’oonzjnuooncrlywenKpwnxqpcnyju.npknulrgnvjnorfjnwyuw,nug.
wyjgnxqp’oonbjjonzpoorjcenRwnurg’wnjutxnwqnwuofnhyjgnxqpcnorktnrtnorfj
ojuwyjc,nzpwnRnlpjttnR’.nzjtwnojwnxqpnfgqhnyqhnwyjnmuc.tnorjenHyuw’t
wyuwnxqp’sjnlqw?”

“Kcjwwxnwyrglt!nbrgjnwyrglt!”nmcrj.nwyjnorwwojnlrconjgwyptrutwrmuoox,
yqo.rglnpknwhqnlorwwjcrglnbculvjgwtnqbnvrmuen“Hyjgnhjnlqjtnzumfnwqnyqvj
R’oonlrsjnwyjvnwqnzcqwyjcnZqze”

“Xqp’oontjjnkcjwwrjcnwyrgltnwyugnwyjvntqqg,”ntur.nwyjnvugnmqgbr.jgwoxe
“Xqpn ptwnhurwnunzrwenRnhutnlqrglnwqnwjoonxqpnwyqply--xqpncjvjvzjcnhyjg
hjnojbwnwyjncrsjc?”

“Qy,nxjte”

“Hjoo,nhjncjmfqgj.nhj’.ntwcrfjnugqwyjcncrsjcntqqg,n.’xjntjjenZpwnwyjcj
hutntqvjwyrg’nhcqgl;nmqvkuttjt,nqcnvuk,nqcntqvjwyrg’,nug.nrwn.r.g’w
wpcgnpkenHuwjcncugnqpwen ptwnjamjkwnunorwwojn.cqknbqcnwyjnorfjtnqbnxqp
ug.--ug.----”

“Ug.nxqpnmqpo.g’wnhutynxqpctjob,”nrgwjccpkwj.nyrtnmqvkugrqgnlcusjox,
twucrglnpknuwnyrtnlcrvxnsrtulje

“Gq,ngqcn.crgfenUg.nVcenZjg.jc,nyjnhutnwyjnbptwnwqnlq,nug.nwyjgnRg.rug
Kjwj,nug.nwyjgnVctenVmLcjlqc,nug.nwyjgn qyggxnYqgjt,nug.nwyjg,n.jucrj,
xqpcnvqwyjce”

“Wyjgnvqwyjc’tnun.ju.jcnwqq,”nmcrj.nwyjnorwwojnlrcon.cqkkrglnyjcnbumjnrg
yjcnkrgubqcjnug.ntqzzrglnzrwwjcoxe

“Xjt,nwyjxnuoonhjgwnjamjkwnxqpnug.nvjenWyjgnRnwyqplywnwyjcjnhutntqvj
myugmjnqbnhuwjcnrgnwyrtn.rcjmwrqg,ntqnRnyjusj.nxqpnqsjcnvxntyqpo.jcnug.
hjnwcuvkj.nrwnwqljwyjcenRwn.qg’wntjjvnutnwyqplynhj’sjnrvkcqsj.nvuwwjcte
Wyjcj’tnugnuovrlywxntvuoonmyugmjnbqcnptngqh!”

“.qnxqpnvjugnwyuwnhjnucjnlqrglnwqn.rjnwqq?”nutfj.nwyjnmyro.,nmyjmfrgl
yjcntqzt,nug.ncurtrglnyjcnwjuc-twurgj.nbumje

“Rnlpjttnwyuw’tnuzqpwnwyjntrdjnqbnrwe”

“Hyxn.r.g’wnxqpntuxntqnzjbqcj?”ntyjntur.,nouplyrglnlojjbpooxen“Xqpnlusj
vjntpmynunbcrlywenHyx,nqbnmqpctj,ngqhnutnoqglnutnhjn.rjnhj’oonzjnhrwy
vqwyjcnulurge”

“Xjt,nxqpnhroo,n.jucrje”

“Ug.nxqpnwqqenR’oonwjoonyjcnyqhnuhbponlqq.nxqp’sjnzjjgenR’oonzjwntyj
vjjwtnptnuwnwyjn.qqcnqbnYjusjgnhrwynunzrlnkrwmyjcnqbnhuwjc,nug.nunoqw
qbnzpmfhyjuwnmufjt,nyqw,nug.nwqutwj.nqgnzqwyntr.jt,norfjnZqznug.nvjnhut
bqg.nqbenYqhnoqglnhroonrwnzjnbrctw?”

“Rn.qg’wnfgqh--gqwnsjcxnoqgle”nWyjnvug’tnjxjtnhjcjnbraj.npkqgnwyj
gqcwyjcgnyqcrdqgenRgnwyjnzopjnsupownqbnwyjnyjusjgnwyjcjnyu.nukkjucj.
wycjjnorwwojntkjmftnhyrmynrgmcjutj.nrgntrdjnjsjcxnvqvjgw,ntqncukr.oxn.r.
wyjxnukkcqumyenWyjxntkjj.roxncjtqosj.nwyjvtjosjtnrgwqnwycjjnoucljnzcqhg
zrc.t,nhyrmynmrcmoj.nqsjcnwyjnyju.tnqbnwyjnwhqnhug.jcjct,nug.nwyjg
tjwwoj.npkqgntqvjncqmftnhyrmynqsjcoqqfj.nwyjvenWyjxnhjcjnzpdduc.t,nwyj
spowpcjtnqbnwyjnhjtw,nhyqtjnmqvrglnrtnwyjnbqcjcpggjcnqbn.juwye

“Mqmftnug.nyjgt,”nmcrj.nwyjnorwwojnlrconlojjbpoox,nkqrgwrglnuwnwyjrc
roo-qvjgj.nbqcvt,nug.nmoukkrglnyjcnyug.tnwqnvufjnwyjvncrtjen“Tux,n.r.
Lq.nvufjnwyrtnmqpgwcx?”

“RgnmqpctjnYjn.r.,”ntur.nyjcnmqvkugrqg,ncuwyjcntwucwoj.nzxnwyrt
pgjakjmwj.nipjtwrqge

“Yjnvu.jnwyjnmqpgwcxn.qhgnrgnRoorgqrt,nug.nYjnvu.jnwyjnVrttqpcr,”nwyj
orwwojnlrconmqgwrgpj.en“Rnlpjttntqvjzq.xnjotjnvu.jnwyjnmqpgwcxnrgnwyjtj
kucwtenRw’tngqwngjucoxntqnhjoon.qgjenWyjxnbqclqwnwyjnhuwjcnug.nwyj
wcjjte”

“Hyuwnhqpo.nxjnwyrgfnqbnqbbjcrglnpknkcuxjc?”nwyjnvugnutfj.n.rbbr.jgwoxe

“Rwnurg’wngrlywnxjw,”ntyjnugthjcj.e

“Rwn.qg’wnvuwwjcenRwnurg’wniprwjncjlpouc,nzpwnYjnhqg’wnvrg.nwyuw,nxqp
zjwenXqpntuxnqsjcnwyjvnqgjtnwyuwnxqpnptj.nwqntuxnjsjcxngrlywnrgnwyj
hullqgnhyjgnhjnhutnqgnwyjnKourgte”

“Hyxn.qg’wnxqpntuxntqvjnxqpctjob?”nwyjnmyro.nutfj.,nhrwynhqg.jcrglnjxjte

“Rn.rtcjvjvzjcnwyjv,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Rnyurg’wntur.ngqgjntrgmjnRnhutnyuob
wyjnyjrlywnq’nwyuwnlpgenRnlpjttnrw’tngjsjcnwqqnouwjenXqpntuxnwyjvnqpw,
ug.nR’oontwug.nzxnug.nmqvjnrgnqgnwyjnmyqcptjte”

“Wyjgnxqp’oongjj.nwqnfgjjon.qhg,nug.nvjnwqq,”ntyjntur.,nouxrglnwyjntyuho
qpwnbqcnwyuwnkpckqtjen“Xqp’sjnlqwnwqnkpwnxqpcnyug.tnpknorfjnwyrtenRw
vufjtnxqpnbjjonfrg.nq’nlqq.e”

Rwnhutnuntwcugljntrlywnyu.nwyjcjnzjjgnugxwyrglnzpwnwyjnzpdduc.tnwqntjj
rwenTr.jnzxntr.jnqgnwyjnguccqhntyuhonfgjownwyjnwhqnhug.jcjct,nwyjnorwwoj
kcuwworglnmyro.nug.nwyjncjmfojtt,nyuc.jgj.nu.sjgwpcjcenYjcnmypzzxnbumj,
ug.nyrtnyulluc.,nuglpoucnsrtuljnhjcjnzqwynwpcgj.npknwqnwyjnmoqp.ojtt
yjusjgnrgnyjucwbjownjgwcjuwxnwqnwyuwn.cju.nzjrglnhrwynhyqvnwyjxnhjcj
bumjnwqnbumj,nhyrojnwyjnwhqnsqrmjt--wyjnqgjnwyrgnug.nmojuc,nwyjnqwyjc
.jjknug.nyucty--pgrwj.nrgnwyjnjgwcjuwxnbqcnvjcmxnug.nbqclrsjgjttenWyj
kcuxjcnbrgrtyj.,nwyjxncjtpvj.nwyjrcntjuwnrgnwyjntyu.qhnqbnwyjnzqpo.jc
pgwronwyjnmyro.nbjoonutojjk,ngjtworglnpkqgnwyjnzcqu.nzcjutwnqbnyjc
kcqwjmwqcenYjnhuwmyj.nqsjcnyjcntopvzjcnbqcntqvjnwrvj,nzpwnGuwpcjnkcqsj.
wqnzjnwqqntwcqglnbqcnyrvenBqcnwycjjn.uxtnug.nwycjjngrlywtnyjnyu.nuooqhj.
yrvtjobngjrwyjcncjtwngqcncjkqtjenToqhoxnwyjnjxjor.tn.cqqkj.nqsjcnwyj
wrcj.njxjt,nug.nwyjnyju.ntpgfnoqhjcnug.noqhjcnpkqgnwyjnzcjutw,npgwronwyj
vug’tnlcrddoj.nzjuc.nhutnvraj.nhrwynwyjnlqo.nwcjttjtnqbnyrtnmqvkugrqg,
ug.nzqwyntojkwnwyjntuvjn.jjknug.n.cjuvojttntopvzjce

Yu.nwyjnhug.jcjcncjvurgj.nuhufjnbqcnugqwyjcnyuobnyqpcnuntwcugljntrlyw
hqpo.nyusjnvjwnyrtnjxjtenBucnuhuxnqgnwyjnjawcjvjnsjcljnqbnwyjnuofuor
kourgnwyjcjncqtjnpknunorwwojntkcuxnqbn.ptw,nsjcxntorlywnuwnbrctw,nug.
yuc.oxnwqnzjn.rtwrglprtyj.nbcqvnwyjnvrtwtnqbnwyjn.rtwugmj,nzpwnlcu.puoox
lcqhrglnyrlyjcnug.nzcqu.jcnpgwronrwnbqcvj.nuntqor.,nhjoo-.jbrgj.nmoqp.e
Wyrtnmoqp.nmqgwrgpj.nwqnrgmcjutjnrgntrdjnpgwronrwnzjmuvjnjsr.jgwnwyuwnrw
mqpo.nqgoxnzjncurtj.nzxnunlcjuwnvpowrwp.jnqbnvqsrglnmcjuwpcjtenRgnvqcj
bjcwrojntkqwtnwyjnqztjcsjcnhqpo.nyusjnmqvjnwqnwyjnmqgmoptrqgnwyuwnqgj
qbnwyqtjnlcjuwnyjc.tnqbnzrtqgtnhyrmynlcudjnpkqgnwyjnkcurcrjnoug.nhut
ukkcqumyrglnyrvenWyrtnhutnqzsrqptoxnrvkqttrzojnrgnwyjtjnucr.nhro.tenUt
wyjnhyrconqbn.ptwn.cjhngjucjcnwqnwyjntqorwucxnzopbbnpkqgnhyrmynwyjnwhq
mutwuhuxtnhjcjncjkqtrgl,nwyjnmugsut-mqsjcj.nwrowtnqbnhullqgtnug.nwyj
brlpcjtnqbnucvj.nyqctjvjgnzjlugnwqntyqhnpknwycqplynwyjnyudj,nug.nwyj
ukkucrwrqgncjsjuoj.nrwtjobnutnzjrglnunlcjuwnmucusugnpkqgnrwtn qpcgjxnbqc
wyjnHjtwenZpwnhyuwnunmucusug!nHyjgnwyjnyju.nqbnrwnyu.ncjumyj.nwyjnzutj
qbnwyjnvqpgwurgt,nwyjncjucnhutngqwnxjwnsrtrzojnqgnwyjnyqcrdqgenCrlyw
umcqttnwyjnjgqcvqptnkourgntwcjwmyj.nwyjntwcullorglnuccux,nhullqgt
ug.nmucwt,nvjgnqgnyqctjzumf,nug.nvjgnqgnbqqwenRggpvjcuzojnhqvjgnhyq
twulljcj.nuoqglnpg.jcnzpc.jgt,nug.nmyro.cjgnhyqnwq..oj.nzjtr.jnwyj
hullqgtnqcnkjjkj.nqpwnbcqvnpg.jcnwyjnhyrwjnmqsjcrgltenWyrtnhutnjsr.jgwox
gqnqc.rgucxnkucwxnqbnrvvrlcugwt,nzpwncuwyjcntqvjngqvu.nkjqkojnhyqnyu.
zjjgnmqvkjooj.nbcqvntwcjttnqbnmrcmpvtwugmjtnwqntjjfnwyjvtjosjtnungjh
mqpgwcxenWyjcjncqtjnwycqplynwyjnmojucnurcnunmqgbptj.nmouwwjcrglnug.
cpvzorglnbcqvnwyrtnlcjuwnvuttnqbnypvugrwx,nhrwynwyjnmcjufrglnqbnhyjjot
ug.nwyjngjrlyrglnqbnyqctjtenOqp.nutnrwnhut,nrwnhutngqwntpbbrmrjgwnwq
cqptjnwyjnwhqnwrcj.nhuxbucjctnuzqsjnwyjve

Uwnwyjnyju.nqbnwyjnmqopvgnwyjcjncq.jnuntmqcjnqcnvqcjnqbnlcusjnrcqgbumj.
vjg,nmou.nrgntqvzcjnyqvjtkpgnlucvjgwtnug.nucvj.nhrwyncrbojtenQgncjumyrgl
wyjnzutjnqbnwyjnzopbbnwyjxnyuowj.,nug.nyjo.nuntyqcwnmqpgmronuvqgl
wyjvtjosjte

“Wyjnhjootnucjnwqnwyjncrlyw,nvxnzcqwyjct,”ntur.nqgj,nunyuc.-orkkj.,
mojug-tyusjgnvugnhrwynlcrddoxnyurce

“WqnwyjncrlywnqbnwyjnTrjccunZougmq--tqnhjntyuooncjumynwyjnCrqnLcug.j,”
ntur.nugqwyjce

“Bjucngqwnbqcnhuwjc,”nmcrj.nunwyrc.en“Yjnhyqnmqpo.n.cuhnrwnbcqvnwyj
cqmftnhroongqwngqhnuzug.qgnYrtnqhgnmyqtjgnkjqkoje”

“Uvjg!nUvjg!”ncjtkqg.j.nwyjnhyqojnkucwxe

Wyjxnhjcjnuzqpwnwqncjtpvjnwyjrcn qpcgjxnhyjgnqgjnqbnwyjnxqpgljtwnug.
fjjgjtw-jxj.npwwjcj.nugnjamouvuwrqgnug.nkqrgwj.npknuwnwyjncpllj.nmcul
uzqsjnwyjvenBcqvnrwtntpvvrwnwyjcjnbopwwjcj.nunorwwojnhrtknqbnkrgf,
tyqhrglnpknyuc.nug.nzcrlywnulurgtwnwyjnlcjxncqmftnzjyrg.enUwnwyjntrlyw
wyjcjnhutnunljgjcuoncjrgrglnpknqbnyqctjtnug.npgtorglrglnqbnlpgt,nhyroj
bcjtynyqctjvjgnmuvjnluooqkrglnpknwqncjrgbqcmjnwyjnsuglpuc.enWyjnhqc.
‘Cj.tfrgt’nhutnqgnjsjcxnorke

“Wyjcjnmug’wnzjnugxngpvzjcnqbnRg pgtnyjcj,”ntur.nwyjnjo.jcoxnvugnhyq
ukkjucj.nwqnzjnrgnmqvvug.en“Hjnyusjnkuttj.nwyjnKuhgjjt,nug.nwyjcjnucjngq
qwyjcnwcrzjtnpgwronhjnmcqttnwyjnlcjuwnvqpgwurgte”

“TyuoonRnlqnbqchuc.nug.ntjj,nZcqwyjcnTwugljctqg,”nutfj.nqgjnqbnwyjnzug.e

“Ug.nR,”n“ug.nR,”nmcrj.nun.qdjgnsqrmjte

“Ojusjnxqpcnyqctjtnzjoqhnug.nhjnhroonuhurwnxqpnyjcj,”nwyjnJo.jc
ugthjcj.enRgnunvqvjgwnwyjnxqpglnbjooqhtnyu.n.rtvqpgwj.,nbutwjgj.nwyjrc
yqctjt,nug.nhjcjnutmjg.rglnwyjnkcjmrkrwqptntoqkjnhyrmynoj.npknwqnwyj
qz jmwnhyrmynyu.njamrwj.nwyjrcnmpcrqtrwxenWyjxnu.sugmj.ncukr.oxnug.
gqrtjojttox,nhrwynwyjnmqgbr.jgmjnug.n.jawjcrwxnqbnkcumwrtj.ntmqpwte
Wyjnhuwmyjctnbcqvnwyjnkourgnzjoqhnmqpo.ntjjnwyjvnborwnbcqvncqmfnwqncqmf
pgwronwyjrcnbrlpcjtntwqq.nqpwnulurgtwnwyjntfxorgjenWyjnxqpglnvugnhyqnyu.
brctwnlrsjgnwyjnuoucvnhutnoju.rglnwyjvenTp..jgoxnyrtnbqooqhjctntuhnyrv
wycqhnpknyrtnyug.t,nutnwyqplynqsjcmqvjnhrwynutwqgrtyvjgw,nug.nqgn qrgrgl
yrvnwyjxnhjcjnubbjmwj.nrgnwyjntuvjnhuxnzxnwyjntrlywnhyrmynvjwnwyjrc
jxjte

Qgnwyjnorwwojnkouwjupnhyrmynmcqhgj.nwyjnzuccjgnyroonwyjcjntwqq.nu
trglojnlrugwnzqpo.jc,nug.nulurgtwnwyrtnzqpo.jcnwyjcjnouxnunwuoonvug,
oqgl-zjuc.j.nug.nyuc.-bjuwpcj.,nzpwnqbnugnjamjttrsjnwyrggjttenYrtnkoumr.
bumjnug.ncjlpoucnzcjuwyrglntyqhj.nwyuwnyjnhutnbutwnutojjkenZjtr.jnyrv
ouxnunorwwojnmyro.,nhrwynyjcncqpg.nhyrwjnucvtnjgmrcmorglnyrtnzcqhg
trgjhxngjmf,nug.nyjcnlqo.jgnyurcj.nyju.ncjtwrglnpkqgnwyjnzcjutwnqbnyrt
sjosjwjjgnwpgrmenYjcncqtxnorktnhjcjnkucwj.,ntyqhrglnwyjncjlpoucnorgjnqb
tgqh-hyrwjnwjjwynhrwyrg,nug.nunkouxbpontvrojnkouxj.nqsjcnyjcnrgbugwroj
bjuwpcjtenYjcnkopvknorwwojnhyrwjnojltnwjcvrguwrglnrgnhyrwjntqmftnug.
gjuwntyqjtnhrwyntyrgrglnzpmfojt,nqbbjcj.nuntwcugljnmqgwcutwnwqnwyjnoqgl
tycrsjooj.nvjvzjctnqbnyjcnmqvkugrqgenQgnwyjnoj.ljnqbncqmfnuzqsjnwyrt
twcugljnmqpkojnwyjcjntwqq.nwycjjntqojvgnzpdduc.t,nhyq,nuwnwyjntrlywnqb
wyjngjhnmqvjctnpwwjcj.ncupmqptntmcjuvtnqbn.rtukkqrgwvjgwnug.nboukkj.
tpoojgoxnuhuxe

Wyjnmcrjtnqbnwyjnbqponzrc.tnuhqfjnwyjnwhqntojjkjctnhyqntwucj.nuzqpwn[20]
wyjvnrgnzjhro.jcvjgwenWyjnvugntwulljcj.nwqnyrtnbjjwnug.noqqfj.n.qhgnpkqg
wyjnkourgnhyrmynyu.nzjjgntqn.jtqouwjnhyjgntojjknyu.nqsjcwufjgnyrv,nug.
hyrmynhutngqhnwcusjctj.nzxnwyrtnjgqcvqptnzq.xnqbnvjgnug.nqbnzjutwtenYrt
bumjnuttpvj.nugnjakcjttrqgnqbnrgmcj.porwxnutnyjnludj.,nug.nyjnkuttj.nyrt
zqgjxnyug.nqsjcnyrtnjxjten“Wyrtnrtnhyuwnwyjxnmuoon.jorcrpv,nRnlpjtt,”
nyjnvpwwjcj.enWyjnmyro.ntwqq.nzjtr.jnyrv,nyqo.rglnqgnwqnwyjntfrcwnqb
yrtnmquw,nug.ntur.ngqwyrglnzpwnoqqfj.nuooncqpg.nyjcnhrwynwyjnhqg.jcrgl
ipjtwrqgrglnludjnqbnmyro.yqq.e

Wyjncjtmprglnkucwxnhjcjntkjj.roxnuzojnwqnmqgsrgmjnwyjnwhqnmutwuhuxtnwyuw
wyjrcnukkjucugmjnhutngqn.joptrqgenQgjnqbnwyjvntjrdj.nwyjnorwwojnlrco,
ug.nyqrtwj.nyjcnpkqgnyrtntyqpo.jc,nhyrojnwhqnqwyjctntpkkqcwj.nyjcnlupgw
mqvkugrqg,nug.nuttrtwj.nyrvnwqhuc.tnwyjnhullqgte

“Vxnguvjnrtn qygnBjccrjc,”nwyjnhug.jcjcnjakourgj.;n“vjnug.nwyuwnorwwoj
pgnucjnuoonwyuw’tnojbwnq’nwhjgwx-qgjnkjqkojenWyjncjtwnrtnuoon.ju.nq’
wyrctwnug.nypgljcnuhuxn.qhgnrgnwyjntqpwye”

“Rtntyjnxqpcnmyro.?”nutfj.ntqvjqgje

“Rnlpjttntyjnrtngqh,”nwyjnqwyjcnmcrj.,n.jbrugwox;n“tyj’tnvrgjn‘muptjnR
tusj.nyjcenGqnvugnhroonwufjnyjcnbcqvnvjenTyj’tnOpmxnBjccrjcnbcqvnwyrt
.uxnqgenHyqnucjnxqp,nwyqply?”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nlougmrglnhrwynmpcrqtrwxnuw
yrtntwuohucw,ntpgzpcgj.ncjtmpjct;n“wyjcjntjjvtnwqnzjnunkqhjcbponoqwnqb
xje”

“Grlynpkqgnwjgnwyqptug.,”ntur.nqgjnqbnwyjnxqpglnvjg;n“hjnucjnwyj
kjctjmpwj.nmyro.cjgnqbnLq.--wyjnmyqtjgnqbnwyjnUgljonVjcqgue”

“Rngjsjcnyjuc.nwjoonqgnyrv,”ntur.nwyjnhug.jcjcen“Yjnukkjuctnwqnyusj
myqtjgnunburcnmcqh.nqbnxje”

“.qngqwn jtwnuwnwyuwnhyrmynrtntumcj.,”ntur.nwyjnqwyjcntwjcgoxen“Hjnucj
qbnwyqtjnhyqnzjorjsjnrgnwyqtjntumcj.nhcrwrglt,n.cuhgnrgnJlxkwrugnojwwjct
qgnkouwjtnqbnzjuwjgnlqo.,nhyrmynhjcjnyug.j.npgwqnwyjnyqoxn qtjkynTvrwy
uwnKuovxcuenHjnyusjnmqvjnbcqvnGupsqq,nrgnwyjnTwuwjnqbnRoorgqrt,nhyjcjnhj
yu.nbqpg.j.nqpcnwjvkojenHjnyusjnmqvjnwqntjjfnuncjbpljnbcqvnwyjnsrqojgw
vugnug.nbcqvnwyjnlq.ojtt,njsjgnwyqplynrwnzjnwyjnyjucwnqbnwyjn.jtjcwe”

WyjnguvjnqbnGupsqqnjsr.jgwoxncjmuooj.ncjmqoojmwrqgtnwqn qygnBjccrjcen“R
tjj,”nyjntur.,n“xqpnucjnwyjnVqcvqgte”

“HjnucjnwyjnVqcvqgt,”nugthjcj.nyrtnmqvkugrqgtnhrwynqgjnsqrmje

“Ug.nhyjcjnucjnxqpnlqrgl?”

“Hjn.qngqwnfgqhenWyjnyug.nqbnLq.nrtnoju.rglnptnpg.jcnwyjnkjctqgnqbnqpc
KcqkyjwenXqpnvptwnmqvjnzjbqcjnyrvenYjntyuoontuxnhyuwnrtnwqnzjn.qgjnhrwy
xqpe”

Wyjxnyu.ncjumyj.nwyjnzutjnqbnwyjnyroonzxnwyrtnwrvj,nug.nhjcjntpccqpg.j.
zxnmcqh.tnqbnwyjnkrolcrvt--kuoj-bumj.nvjjf-oqqfrglnhqvjg,ntwcqgl
ouplyrglnmyro.cjg,nug.nugarqptnjucgjtw-jxj.nvjgenVugxnhjcjnwyjnmcrjt
qbnutwqgrtyvjgwnug.nqbnmqvvrtjcuwrqgnhyrmynucqtjnbcqvnwyjvnhyjgnwyjx
kjcmjrsj.nwyjnxqpwynqbnqgjnqbnwyjntwcugljctnug.nwyjn.jtwrwpwrqgnqbnwyj
qwyjcenWyjrcnjtmqcwn.r.ngqwnyuow,nyqhjsjc,nzpwnkptyj.nqg,nbqooqhj.nzx
unlcjuwnmcqh.nqbnVqcvqgt,npgwronwyjxncjumyj.nunhullqg,nhyrmynhut
mqgtkrmpqptnbqcnrwtnlcjuwntrdjnug.nbqcnwyjnlup.rgjttnug.ntvucwgjttnqb
rwtnukkjucugmjenTranyqctjtnhjcjnxqfj.nwqnrw,nhyjcjutnwyjnqwyjctnhjcj
bpcgrtyj.nhrwynwhq,nqc,nuwnvqtw,nbqpcnu-krjmjenZjtr.jnwyjn.crsjcnwyjcj
tuwnunvugnhyqnmqpo.ngqwnyusjnzjjgnvqcjnwyugnwyrcwxnxjuctnqbnulj,nzpw
hyqtjnvuttrsjnyju.nug.ncjtqopwjnjakcjttrqgnvucfj.nyrvnutnunoju.jcenYj
hutncju.rglnunzcqhg-zumfj.nsqopvj,nzpwnutnwyjnmcqh.nukkcqumyj.nyjnour.
rwnutr.j,nug.nortwjgj.nuwwjgwrsjoxnwqnugnummqpgwnqbnwyjnjkrtq.jenWyjgnyj
wpcgj.nwqnwyjnwhqnmutwuhuxte

“Rbnhjnwufjnxqpnhrwynpt,”nyjntur.,nrgntqojvgnhqc.t,n“rwnmugnqgoxnzjnut
zjorjsjctnrgnqpcnqhgnmcjj.enHjntyuoonyusjngqnhqosjtnrgnqpcnbqo.enZjwwjc
bucnwyuwnxqpcnzqgjtntyqpo.nzojumynrgnwyrtnhro.jcgjttnwyugnwyuwnxqp
tyqpo.nkcqsjnwqnzjnwyuwnorwwojntkjmfnqbn.jmuxnhyrmynrgnwrvjnmqccpkwtnwyj
hyqojnbcprwenHroonxqpnmqvjnhrwynptnqgnwyjtjnwjcvt?”

“LpjttnR’oonmqvjnhrwynxqpnqgnugxnwjcvt,”ntur.nBjccrjc,nhrwyntpmy
jvkyutrtnwyuwnwyjnlcusjnJo.jctnmqpo.ngqwncjtwcurgnuntvrojenWyjnoju.jc
uoqgjncjwurgj.nyrtntwjcg,nrvkcjttrsjnjakcjttrqge

“Wufjnyrv,nZcqwyjcnTwugljctqg,”nyjntur.,n“lrsjnyrvnbqq.nug.n.crgf,
ug.nwyjnmyro.norfjhrtjenOjwnrwnzjnxqpcnwutfnuotqnwqnwjumynyrvnqpcnyqox
mcjj.enHjnyusjn.jouxj.noqglnjgqplyenBqchuc.!nQg,nqgnwqnDrqg!”

“Qg,nqgnwqnDrqg!”nmcrj.nwyjnmcqh.nqbnVqcvqgt,nug.nwyjnhqc.tncrkkoj.n.qhg
wyjnoqglnmucusug,nkuttrglnbcqvnvqpwynwqnvqpwynpgwronwyjxn.rj.nuhuxnrgnu
.poonvpcvpcnrgnwyjnbucn.rtwugmjenHrwynunmcumfrglnqbnhyrktnug.nunmcjufrgl
qbnhyjjotnwyjnlcjuwnhullqgtnlqwnrgwqnvqwrqg,nug.ntqqgnwyjnhyqojnmucusug
hutnhrg.rglnuoqglnqgmjnvqcjenWyjnJo.jcnwqnhyqtjnmucjnwyjnwhqnhurbt
yu.nzjjgnmqvvrwwj.,noj.nwyjvnwqnyrtnhullqg,nhyjcjnunvjuonhutnuocju.x
uhurwrglnwyjve

“Xqpntyuooncjvurgnyjcj,”nyjntur.en“Rgnunbjhn.uxtnxqpnhroonyusjncjmqsjcj.
bcqvnxqpcnbuwrlpjtenRgnwyjnvjugwrvj,ncjvjvzjcnwyuwngqhnug.nbqcnjsjcnxqp
ucjnqbnqpcncjorlrqgenZcrlyuvnXqpglnyutntur.nrw,nug.nyjnyutntkqfjgnhrwy
wyjnsqrmjnqbn qtjkynTvrwy,nhyrmynrtnwyjnsqrmjnqbnLq.e”




MYUKWJCnRRenWYJnBOQHJCnQBnPWUYe


WYRTnrtngqwnwyjnkoumjnwqnmqvvjvqcuwjnwyjnwcruotnug.nkcrsuwrqgtnjg.pcj.
zxnwyjnrvvrlcugwnVqcvqgtnzjbqcjnwyjxnmuvjnwqnwyjrcnbrguonyusjgenBcqvnwyj
tyqcjtnqbnwyjnVrttrttrkkrnwqnwyjnhjtwjcgntoqkjtnqbnwyjnCqmfxnVqpgwurgt
wyjxnyu.ntwcplloj.nqgnhrwynunmqgtwugmxnuovqtwnpgkucuoojoj.nrgnyrtwqcxe
Wyjntusuljnvug,nug.nwyjntusuljnzjutw,nypgljc,nwyrctw,nbuwrlpj,nug.
.rtjutj--jsjcxnrvkj.rvjgwnhyrmynGuwpcjnmqpo.nkoumjnrgnwyjnhux,nyu.nuoo
zjjgnqsjcmqvjnhrwynUgloq-TuaqgnwjgumrwxenXjwnwyjnoqgln qpcgjxnug.nwyj
ummpvpouwj.nwjccqctnyu.ntyufjgnwyjnyjucwtnqbnwyjntwqpwjtwnuvqglnwyjve
Wyjcjnhutngqwnqgjnhyqn.r.ngqwntrgfnpkqgnyrtnfgjjtnrgnyjucwbjownkcuxjc
hyjgnwyjxntuhnwyjnzcqu.nsuoojxnqbnPwuynzuwyj.nrgnwyjntpgorlywnzjgjuwy
wyjv,nug.nojucgj.nbcqvnwyjnorktnqbnwyjrcnoju.jcnwyuwnwyrtnhutnwyj
kcqvrtj.noug.,nug.nwyuwnwyjtjnsrclrgnumcjtnhjcjnwqnzjnwyjrctnbqc
jsjcvqcje

Xqpglntkjj.roxnkcqsj.nyrvtjobnwqnzjnuntfrobponu.vrgrtwcuwqcnutnhjoonutnu
cjtqopwjnmyrjbenVuktnhjcjn.cuhgnug.nmyucwtnkcjkucj.,nrgnhyrmynwyjnbpwpcj
mrwxnhutntfjwmyj.nqpwenUoonucqpg.nbucvtnhjcjnukkqcwrqgj.nug.nuooqwwj.nrg
kcqkqcwrqgnwqnwyjntwug.rglnqbnjumynrg.rsr.puoenWyjnwcu.jtvugnhutnkpw
wqnyrtnwcu.jnug.nwyjnucwrtugnwqnyrtnmuoorglenRgnwyjnwqhgntwcjjwtnug.
tipucjtntkcuglnpk,nutnrbnzxnvulrmenRgnwyjnmqpgwcxnwyjcjnhutn.curgrgl
ug.nyj.lrgl,nkougwrglnug.nmojucrgl,npgwronwyjngjawntpvvjcntuhnwyjnhyqoj
mqpgwcxnlqo.jgnhrwynwyjnhyjuwnmcqkenJsjcxwyrglnkcqtkjcj.nrgnwyjntwcuglj
tjwwojvjgwenUzqsjnuoo,nwyjnlcjuwnwjvkojnhyrmynwyjxnyu.njcjmwj.nrgnwyj
mjgwcjnqbnwyjnmrwxnlcjhnjsjcnwuoojcnug.noucljcenBcqvnwyjnbrctwnzoptynqb
.uhgnpgwronwyjnmoqtrglnqbnwyjnwhrorlyw,nwyjnmouwwjcnqbnwyjnyuvvjc
ug.nwyjncutknqbnwyjntuhnhutngjsjcnuztjgwnbcqvnwyjnvqgpvjgwnhyrmynwyj
rvvrlcugwtnjcjmwj.nwqnYrvnhyqnyu.noj.nwyjvntubjnwycqplynvugxn.ugljcte

Wyjnwhqnmutwuhuxt,n qygnBjccrjcnug.nwyjnorwwojnlrconhyqnyu.ntyucj.nyrt
bqcwpgjtnug.nyu.nzjjgnu.qkwj.nutnyrtn.uplywjc,nummqvkugrj.nwyjnVqcvqgt
wqnwyjnjg.nqbnwyjrcnlcjuwnkrolcrvuljenOrwwojnOpmxnBjccrjcnhutnzqcgj
uoqglnkojutugwoxnjgqplynrgnJo.jcnTwugljctqg’tnhullqg,nuncjwcjuwnhyrmy
tyjntyucj.nhrwynwyjnVqcvqg’tnwycjjnhrsjtnug.nhrwynyrtntqg,nunyju.twcqgl
bqchuc.nzqxnqbnwhjosjenYusrglncuoorj.,nhrwynwyjnjoutwrmrwxnqbnmyro.yqq.,
bcqvnwyjntyqmfnmuptj.nzxnyjcnvqwyjc’tn.juwy,ntyjntqqgnzjmuvjnunkjw
hrwynwyjnhqvjg,nug.ncjmqgmroj.nyjctjobnwqnwyrtngjhnorbjnrgnyjcnvqsrgl
mugsut-mqsjcj.nyqvjenRgnwyjnvjugwrvjnBjccrjcnyusrglncjmqsjcj.nbcqvnyrt
kcrsuwrqgt,n.rtwrglprtyj.nyrvtjobnutnunptjbponlpr.jnug.nugnrg.jbuwrluzoj
ypgwjcenTqncukr.oxn.r.nyjnlurgnwyjnjtwjjvnqbnyrtngjhnmqvkugrqgt,nwyuw
hyjgnwyjxncjumyj.nwyjnjg.nqbnwyjrcnhug.jcrglt,nrwnhutnpgugrvqptoxnulcjj.
wyuwnyjntyqpo.nzjnkcqsr.j.nhrwynutnoucljnug.nutnbjcwrojnunwcumwnqbnoug.
utnugxnqbnwyjntjwwojct,nhrwynwyjnjamjkwrqgnqbnXqpglnyrvtjob,nug.nqb
Twugljctqg,nFjvzuoo,n qygtwqg,nug.n.cjzzjc,nhyqnhjcjnwyjnbqpcnkcrgmrkuo
Jo.jcte

Qgnwyjnbucvnwyptnumiprcj.n qygnBjccrjcnzprownyrvtjobnuntpztwugwruo
oql-yqptj,nhyrmyncjmjrsj.ntqnvugxnu..rwrqgtnrgntpmmjj.rglnxjuctnwyuwnrw
lcjhnrgwqnuncqqvxnsroouenYjnhutnunvugnqbnunkcumwrmuonwpcgnqbnvrg.,
fjjgnrgnyrtn.juorgltnug.ntfrobponhrwynyrtnyug.tenYrtnrcqgnmqgtwrwpwrqg
jguzoj.nyrvnwqnhqcfnvqcgrglnug.njsjgrglnuwnrvkcqsrglnug.nwroorglnyrt
oug.tenYjgmjnrwnmuvjnuzqpwnwyuwnyrtnbucvnug.nuoonwyuwnzjoqglj.nwq
yrvnkcqtkjcj.njamjj.rgloxenRgnwycjjnxjuctnyjnhutnzjwwjcnqbbnwyugnyrt
gjrlyzqpct,nrgntranyjnhutnhjoo-wq-.q,nrgngrgjnyjnhutncrmy,nug.nrgnwhjosj
wyjcjnhjcjngqwnyuobnun.qdjgnvjgnrgnwyjnhyqojnqbnTuownOufjnMrwxnhyqnmqpo.
mqvkucjnhrwynyrvenBcqvnwyjnlcjuwnrgoug.ntjunwqnwyjn.rtwugwnHuytuwmy
Vqpgwurgtnwyjcjnhutngqnguvjnzjwwjcnfgqhgnwyugnwyuwnqbn qygnBjccrjce

Wyjcjnhutnqgjnhuxnug.nqgoxnqgjnrgnhyrmynyjnqbbjg.j.nwyjntptmjkwrzrorwrjt
qbnyrtnmq-cjorlrqgrtwtenGqnuclpvjgwnqcnkjctputrqgnmqpo.njsjcnrg.pmjnyrv
wqntjwnpknunbjvuojnjtwuzortyvjgwnubwjcnwyjnvuggjcnqbnyrtnmqvkugrqgtenYj
gjsjcnlusjncjutqgtnbqcnwyrtnkjctrtwjgwncjbptuo,nzpwnmqgwjgwj.nyrvtjobnzx
cjtqopwjoxnug.nrgbojarzoxnu.yjcrglnwqnyrtn.jwjcvrguwrqgenWyjcjnhjcjntqvj
hyqnummptj.nyrvnqbnopfjhucvgjttnrgnyrtnu.qkwj.ncjorlrqg,nug.nqwyjctnhyq
kpwnrwn.qhgnwqnlcjj.nqbnhjuowynug.ncjopmwugmjnwqnrgmpcnjakjgtjenQwyjct,
ulurg,ntkqfjnqbntqvjnjucoxnoqsjnubburc,nug.nqbnunburc-yurcj.nlrconhyq
yu.nkrgj.nuhuxnqgnwyjntyqcjtnqbnwyjnUwougwrmenHyuwjsjcnwyjncjutqg,
Bjccrjcncjvurgj.ntwcrmwoxnmjorzuwjenRgnjsjcxnqwyjcncjtkjmwnyjnmqgbqcvj.
wqnwyjncjorlrqgnqbnwyjnxqpglntjwwojvjgw,nug.nlurgj.nwyjnguvjnqbnzjrglnug
qcwyq.qanug.ntwcurlyw-huofrglnvuge

OpmxnBjccrjcnlcjhnpknhrwyrgnwyjnoql-yqptj,nug.nuttrtwj.nyjcnu.qkwj.
buwyjcnrgnuoonyrtnpg.jcwufrgltenWyjnfjjgnurcnqbnwyjnvqpgwurgtnug.nwyj
zuotuvrmnq.qpcnqbnwyjnkrgjnwcjjtnwqqfnwyjnkoumjnqbngpctjnug.nvqwyjcnwq
wyjnxqpglnlrcoenUtnxjucntpmmjj.j.nwqnxjucntyjnlcjhnwuoojcnug.ntwcqgljc,
yjcnmyjjfnvqcjncp.x,nug.nyjcntwjknvqcjnjoutwrmenVugxnunhuxbucjcnpkqg
wyjnyrlyncqu.nhyrmyncugnzxnBjccrjc’tnbucvnbjownoqgl-bqclqwwjgnwyqplywt
cjsrsjnrgnwyjrcnvrg.nutnwyjxnhuwmyj.nyjcnorwyjnlrcortynbrlpcjnwcrkkrgl
wycqplynwyjnhyjuwbrjo.t,nqcnvjwnyjcnvqpgwj.npkqgnyjcnbuwyjc’tnvptwugl,
ug.nvugulrglnrwnhrwynuoonwyjnjutjnug.nlcumjnqbnunwcpjnmyro.nqbnwyjnHjtwe
Tqnwyjnzp.nzoqttqvj.nrgwqnunboqhjc,nug.nwyjnxjucnhyrmyntuhnyjcnbuwyjc
wyjncrmyjtwnqbnwyjnbucvjctnojbwnyjcnutnburcnuntkjmrvjgnqbnUvjcrmug
lrcoyqq.nutnmqpo.nzjnbqpg.nrgnwyjnhyqojnKumrbrmntoqkje

Rwnhutngqwnwyjnbuwyjc,nyqhjsjc,nhyqnbrctwn.rtmqsjcj.nwyuwnwyjnmyro.nyu.
.jsjoqkj.nrgwqnwyjnhqvugenRwntjo.qvnrtnrgntpmynmutjtenWyuwnvxtwjcrqpt
myugljnrtnwqqntpzwojnug.nwqqnlcu.puonwqnzjnvjutpcj.nzxn.uwjtenOjutwnqb
uoon.qjtnwyjnvur.jgnyjctjobnfgqhnrwnpgwronwyjnwqgjnqbnunsqrmjnqcnwyj
wqpmynqbnunyug.ntjwtnyjcnyjucwnwycroorglnhrwyrgnyjc,nug.ntyjnojucgt,
hrwynunvrawpcjnqbnkcr.jnug.nqbnbjuc,nwyuwnungjhnug.nunoucljcnguwpcjnyut
uhqfjgnhrwyrgnyjcenWyjcjnucjnbjhnhyqnmuggqwncjmuoonwyuwn.uxnug.ncjvjvzjc
wyjnqgjnorwwojnrgmr.jgwnhyrmynyjcuo.j.nwyjn.uhgnqbnungjhnorbjenRgnwyj
mutjnqbnOpmxnBjccrjcnwyjnqmmutrqgnhutntjcrqptnjgqplynrgnrwtjob,nukucw
bcqvnrwtnbpwpcjnrgbopjgmjnqgnyjcn.jtwrgxnug.nwyuwnqbnvugxnzjtr.jte

Rwnhutnunhucvn pgjnvqcgrgl,nug.nwyjnOuwwjcn.uxnTurgwtnhjcjnutnzptxnut
wyjnzjjtnhyqtjnyrsjnwyjxnyusjnmyqtjgnbqcnwyjrcnjvzojvenRgnwyjnbrjo.tnug.
rgnwyjntwcjjwtncqtjnwyjntuvjnypvnqbnypvugnrg.ptwcxen.qhgnwyjn.ptwxnyrly
cqu.tn.jbroj.noqglntwcjuvtnqbnyjusrox-ou.jgnvpojt,nuoonyju.rglnwqnwyj
hjtw,nbqcnwyjnlqo.nbjsjcnyu.nzcqfjgnqpwnrgnMuorbqcgru,nug.nwyjnQsjcoug.
CqpwjnouxnwycqplynwyjnMrwxnqbnwyjnJojmwenWyjcj,nwqq,nhjcjn.cqsjtnqb
tyjjknug.nzpooqmftnmqvrglnrgnbcqvnwyjnqpwoxrglnkutwpcjnoug.t,nug.nwcurgt
qbnwrcj.nrvvrlcugwt,nvjgnug.nyqctjtnjipuooxnhjucxnqbnwyjrcnrgwjcvrguzoj
 qpcgjxenWycqplynuoonwyrtnvqwojxnuttjvzoulj,nwycju.rglnyjcnhuxnhrwynwyj
tfroonqbnugnummqvkortyj.ncr.jc,nwyjcjnluooqkj.nOpmxnBjccrjc,nyjcnburc
bumjnboptyj.nhrwynwyjnjajcmrtjnug.nyjcnoqglnmyjtwgpwnyurcnboquwrglnqpw
zjyrg.nyjcenTyjnyu.nunmqvvrttrqgnbcqvnyjcnbuwyjcnrgnwyjnMrwx,nug.nhut
.utyrglnrgnutntyjnyu.n.qgjnvugxnunwrvjnzjbqcj,nhrwynuoonwyjnbjucojttgjtt
qbnxqpwy,nwyrgfrglnqgoxnqbnyjcnwutfnug.nyqhnrwnhutnwqnzjnkjcbqcvj.enWyj
wcusjo-twurgj.nu.sjgwpcjctnludj.nubwjcnyjcnrgnutwqgrtyvjgw,nug.njsjg
wyjnpgjvqwrqguonRg.rugt,n qpcgjxrglnrgnhrwynwyjrcnkjowrjt,ncjouaj.nwyjrc
ummptwqvj.ntwqrmrtvnutnwyjxnvucsjooj.nuwnwyjnzjupwxnqbnwyjnkuoj-bumj.
vur.jge

Tyjnyu.ncjumyj.nwyjnqpwtfrcwtnqbnwyjnmrwxnhyjgntyjnbqpg.nwyjncqu.
zoqmfj.nzxnunlcjuwn.cqsjnqbnmuwwoj,n.crsjgnzxnunyuob-.qdjgnhro.-oqqfrgl
yjc.tvjgnbcqvnwyjnkourgtenRgnyjcnrvkuwrjgmjntyjnjg.jusqpcj.nwqnkuttnwyrt
qztwumojnzxnkptyrglnyjcnyqctjnrgwqnhyuwnukkjucj.nwqnzjnunlukenTmucmjox
yu.ntyjnlqwnburcoxnrgwqnrw,nyqhjsjc,nzjbqcjnwyjnzjutwtnmoqtj.nrgnzjyrg.
yjc,nug.ntyjnbqpg.nyjctjobnmqvkojwjoxnrvzj..j.nrgnwyjnvqsrglntwcjuvnqb
brjcmj-jxj.,noqgl-yqcgj.nzpooqmftenUmmptwqvj.nutntyjnhutnwqn.juonhrwy
muwwoj,ntyjnhutngqwnuoucvj.nuwnyjcntrwpuwrqg,nzpwnwqqfnu.sugwuljnqb
jsjcxnqkkqcwpgrwxnwqnpcljnyjcnyqctjnqgnrgnwyjnyqkjtnqbnkptyrglnyjcnhux
wycqplynwyjnmusuomu.jenPgbqcwpguwjoxnwyjnyqcgtnqbnqgjnqbnwyjnmcjuwpcjt,
jrwyjcnzxnummr.jgwnqcn.jtrlg,nmuvjnrgnsrqojgwnmqgwumwnhrwynwyjnbougfnqb
wyjnvptwugl,nug.njamrwj.nrwnwqnvu.gjttenRgnugnrgtwugwnrwncjucj.npknpkqg
rwtnyrg.nojltnhrwynuntgqcwnqbnculj,nug.nkcugmj.nug.nwqttj.nrgnunhuxnwyuw
hqpo.nyusjnpgtjuwj.nugxnzpwnunvqtwntfrobponcr.jcenWyjntrwpuwrqgnhutnbpoo
qbnkjcroenJsjcxnkopgljnqbnwyjnjamrwj.nyqctjnzcqplywnrwnulurgtwnwyjnyqcgt
ulurg,nug.nlqu.j.nrwnwqnbcjtynvu.gjttenRwnhutnuoonwyuwnwyjnlrconmqpo.
.qnwqnfjjknyjctjobnrgnwyjntu..oj,nxjwnuntorknhqpo.nvjugnunwjccrzojn.juwy
pg.jcnwyjnyqqbtnqbnwyjnpghrjo.xnug.nwjccrbrj.nugrvuotenPgummptwqvj.nwq
tp..jgnjvjcljgmrjt,nyjcnyju.nzjlugnwqnthrv,nug.nyjcnlcrknpkqgnwyjnzcr.oj
wqncjouaenMyqfj.nzxnwyjncrtrglnmoqp.nqbn.ptwnug.nzxnwyjntwjuvnbcqvnwyj
twcpllorglnmcjuwpcjt,ntyjnvrlywnyusjnuzug.qgj.nyjcnjbbqcwtnrgn.jtkurc,
zpwnbqcnunfrg.oxnsqrmjnuwnyjcnjozqhnhyrmynuttpcj.nyjcnqbnuttrtwugmjenUw
wyjntuvjnvqvjgwnuntrgjhxnzcqhgnyug.nmuplywnwyjnbcrlywjgj.nyqctjnzx
wyjnmpcz,nug.nbqcmrglnunhuxnwycqplynwyjn.cqsj,ntqqgnzcqplywnyjcnwqnwyj
qpwtfrcwte

“Xqp’cjngqwnypcw,nRnyqkj,nvrtt,”ntur.nyjcnkcjtjcsjc,ncjtkjmwbpooxe

Tyjnoqqfj.npknuwnyrtn.ucf,nbrjcmjnbumj,nug.nouplyj.ntupmroxen“R’vnuhbpo
bcrlywjgj.,”ntyjntur.,ngursjox;n“hyqjsjcnhqpo.nyusjnwyqplywnwyuwnKqgmyq
hqpo.nyusjnzjjgntqntmucj.nzxnunoqwnqbnmqht?”

“WyugfnLq.nxqpnfjkwnxqpcntjuw,”nwyjnqwyjcntur.njucgjtwoxenYjnhutnunwuoo,
tusulj-oqqfrglnxqpglnbjooqh,nvqpgwj.nqgnunkqhjcbponcqugnyqctj,nug.
mou.nrgnwyjncqplyn.cjttnqbnunypgwjc,nhrwynunoqglncrbojntopglnqsjcnyrt
tyqpo.jcten“Rnlpjttnxqpnucjnwyjn.uplywjcnqbn qygnBjccrjc,”nyjncjvucfj.,
“Rntuhnxqpncr.jn.qhgnbcqvnyrtnyqptjenHyjgnxqpntjjnyrv,nutfnyrvnrbnyj
cjvjvzjctnwyjn jbbjctqgnYqkjtnqbnTwenOqprtenRbnyj’tnwyjntuvjnBjccrjc,nvx
buwyjcnug.nyjnhjcjnkcjwwxnwyrmfe”

“Yu.g’wnxqpnzjwwjcnmqvjnug.nutfnxqpctjob?”ntyjnutfj.,n.jvpcjoxe

Wyjnxqpglnbjooqhntjjvj.nkojutj.nuwnwyjntplljtwrqg,nug.nyrtn.ucfnjxjt
tkucfoj.nhrwynkojutpcjen“R’oon.qntq,”nyjntur.,n“hj’sjnzjjgnrgnwyj
vqpgwurgtnbqcnwhqnvqgwyt,nug.nucjngqwnqsjcnug.nuzqsjnrgnsrtrwrgl
mqg.rwrqgenYjnvptwnwufjnptnutnyjnbrg.tnpte”

“Yjnyutnunlqq.n.juonwqnwyugfnxqpnbqc,nug.ntqnyusjnR,”ntyjnugthjcj.,
“yj’tnuhbponbqg.nqbnvjenRbnwyqtjnmqhtnyu.n pvkj.nqgnvjnyj’.nyusjngjsjc
lqwnqsjcnrwe”

“Gjrwyjcnhqpo.nR,”ntur.nyjcnmqvkugrqge

“Xqp!nHjoo,nRn.qg’wntjjnwyuwnrwnhqpo.nvufjnvpmynvuwwjcnwqnxqp,nugxyqhe
Xqpnurg’wnjsjgnunbcrjg.nqbnqpcte”

Wyjnxqpglnypgwjc’tn.ucfnbumjnlcjhntqnloqqvxnqsjcnwyrtncjvucfnwyuwnOpmx
Bjccrjcnouplyj.nuoqp.e

“Wyjcj,nRn.r.g’wnvjugnwyuw,”ntyjntur.;n“qbnmqpctj,nxqpnucjnunbcrjg.ngqhe
Xqpnvptwnmqvjnug.ntjjnptenGqhnRnvptwnkptynuoqgl,nqcnbuwyjcnhqg’wnwcptw
vjnhrwynyrtnzptrgjttnugxnvqcjenLqq.-zxj!”

“Lqq.-zxj,”nyjnugthjcj.,ncurtrglnyrtnzcqu.ntqvzcjcq,nug.nzjg.rglnqsjc
yjcnorwwojnyug.enTyjnhyjjoj.nyjcnvptwuglncqpg.,nlusjnrwnunmpwnhrwynyjc
cr.rgl-hyrk,nug.n.ucwj.nuhuxn.qhgnwyjnzcqu.ncqu.nrgnuncqoorglnmoqp.nqb
.ptwe

Xqpgln jbbjctqgnYqkjncq.jnqgnhrwynyrtnmqvkugrqgt,nloqqvxnug.nwumrwpcge
Yjnug.nwyjxnyu.nzjjgnuvqglnwyjnGjsu.unVqpgwurgtnkcqtkjmwrglnbqcntrosjc,
ug.nhjcjncjwpcgrglnwqnTuownOufjnMrwxnrgnwyjnyqkjnqbncurtrglnmukrwuo
jgqplynwqnhqcfntqvjnoq.jtnhyrmynwyjxnyu.n.rtmqsjcj.enYjnyu.nzjjgnutnfjjg
utnugxnqbnwyjvnpkqgnwyjnzptrgjttnpgwronwyrtntp..jgnrgmr.jgwnyu.n.cuhg
yrtnwyqplywtnrgwqnugqwyjcnmyuggjoenWyjntrlywnqbnwyjnburcnxqpglnlrco,
utnbcugfnug.nhyqojtqvjnutnwyjnTrjccunzcjjdjt,nyu.ntwrccj.nyrtnsqomugrm,
pgwuvj.nyjucwnwqnrwtnsjcxn.jkwytenHyjgntyjnyu.nsugrtyj.nbcqvnyrtntrlyw,
yjncjuordj.nwyuwnunmcrtrtnyu.nmqvjnrgnyrtnorbj,nug.nwyuwngjrwyjcntrosjc
tkjmpouwrqgtngqcnugxnqwyjcnipjtwrqgtnmqpo.njsjcnzjnqbntpmynrvkqcwugmjnwq
yrvnutnwyrtngjhnug.nuoo-uztqczrglnqgjenWyjnoqsjnhyrmynyu.ntkcpglnpknrg
yrtnyjucwnhutngqwnwyjntp..jg,nmyugljuzojnbugmxnqbnunzqx,nzpwncuwyjcnwyj
hro.,nbrjcmjnkuttrqgnqbnunvugnqbntwcqglnhroonug.nrvkjcrqptnwjvkjcenYj
yu.nzjjgnummptwqvj.nwqntpmmjj.nrgnuoonwyuwnyjnpg.jcwqqfenYjnthqcjnrg
yrtnyjucwnwyuwnyjnhqpo.ngqwnburonrgnwyrtnrbnypvugnjbbqcwnug.nypvug
kjctjsjcugmjnmqpo.ncjg.jcnyrvntpmmjttbpoe

Yjnmuooj.nqgn qygnBjccrjcnwyuwngrlyw,nug.nvugxnwrvjtnulurg,npgwro
yrtnbumjnhutnunbuvrorucnqgjnuwnwyjnbucv-yqptjen qyg,nmqqkj.npknrgnwyj
suoojx,nug.nuztqczj.nrgnyrtnhqcf,nyu.nyu.norwwojnmyugmjnqbnojucgrgl
wyjngjhtnqbnwyjnqpwtr.jnhqco.n.pcrglnwyjnoutwnwhjosjnxjuctenUoonwyrt
 jbbjctqgnYqkjnhutnuzojnwqnwjoonyrv,nug.nrgnuntwxojnhyrmynrgwjcjtwj.
OpmxnutnhjoonutnyjcnbuwyjcenYjnyu.nzjjgnunkrqgjjcnrgnMuorbqcgru,nug.
mqpo.nguccuwjnvugxnuntwcugljnwuojnqbnbqcwpgjtnvu.jnug.nbqcwpgjtnoqtw
rgnwyqtjnhro.,nyuomxqgn.uxtenYjnyu.nzjjgnuntmqpwnwqq,nug.nunwcukkjc,nu
trosjcnjakoqcjc,nug.nuncugmyvugenHyjcjsjcntwrccrglnu.sjgwpcjtnhjcjnwqnzj
yu.,n jbbjctqgnYqkjnyu.nzjjgnwyjcjnrgntjucmynqbnwyjvenYjntqqgnzjmuvjnu
busqpcrwjnhrwynwyjnqo.nbucvjc,nhyqntkqfjnjoqipjgwoxnqbnyrtnsrcwpjtenQg
tpmynqmmutrqgt,nOpmxnhutntrojgw,nzpwnyjcnzoptyrglnmyjjfnug.nyjcnzcrlyw,
yukkxnjxjt,ntyqhj.nqgoxnwqqnmojucoxnwyuwnyjcnxqpglnyjucwnhutngqnoqgljc
yjcnqhgenYjcnyqgjtwnbuwyjcnvuxngqwnyusjnqztjcsj.nwyjtjntxvkwqvt,
zpwnwyjxnhjcjnuttpcj.oxngqwnwycqhgnuhuxnpkqgnwyjnvugnhyqnyu.nhqgnyjc
ubbjmwrqgte

Rwnhutnuntpvvjcnjsjgrglnhyjgnyjnmuvjnluooqkrgln.qhgnwyjncqu.nug.nkpooj.
pknuwnwyjnluwjenTyjnhutnuwnwyjn.qqchux,nug.nmuvjn.qhgnwqnvjjwnyrvenYj
wycjhnwyjnzcr.ojnqsjcnwyjnbjgmjnug.ntwcq.jnpknwyjnkuwyhuxe

“Rnuvnqbb,nOpmx,”nyjntur.,nwufrglnyjcnwhqnyug.tnrgnyrt,nug.nludrgl
wjg.jcoxn.qhgnrgwqnyjcnbumj;n“Rnhqg’wnutfnxqpnwqnmqvjnhrwynvjngqh,nzpw
hroonxqpnzjncju.xnwqnmqvjnhyjgnRnuvnyjcjnulurg?”

“Ug.nhyjgnhroonwyuwnzj?”ntyjnutfj.,nzoptyrglnug.nouplyrgle

“Unmqpkojnqbnvqgwytnuwnwyjnqpwtr.jenRnhroonmqvjnug.nmourvnxqpnwyjg,nvx
.ucorglenWyjcj’tngqnqgjnhyqnmugntwug.nzjwhjjgnpte”

“Ug.nyqhnuzqpwnbuwyjc?”ntyjnutfj.e

“Yjnyutnlrsjgnyrtnmqgtjgw,nkcqsr.j.nhjnljwnwyjtjnvrgjtnhqcfrglnuoo
crlywenRnyusjngqnbjucnqgnwyuwnyju.e”

“Qy,nhjoo;nqbnmqpctj,nrbnxqpnug.nbuwyjcnyusjnuccuglj.nrwnuoo,nwyjcj’t
gqnvqcjnwqnzjntur.,”ntyjnhyrtkjcj.,nhrwynyjcnmyjjfnulurgtwnyrtnzcqu.
zcjutwe

“WyugfnLq.!”nyjntur.,nyquctjox,ntwqqkrglnug.nfrttrglnyjcen“Rwnrt
tjwwoj.,nwyjgenWyjnoqgljcnRntwux,nwyjnyuc.jcnrwnhroonzjnwqnlqenWyjxnucj
hurwrglnbqcnvjnuwnwyjnmuñqgenLqq.-zxj,nvxnqhgn.ucorgl--lqq.-zxjenRgnwhq
vqgwytnxqpntyuoontjjnvje”

Yjnwqcjnyrvtjobnbcqvnyjcnutnyjntkqfj,nug.,nborglrglnyrvtjobnpkqgnyrt
yqctj,nluooqkj.nbpcrqptoxnuhux,ngjsjcnjsjgnoqqfrglncqpg.,nutnwyqply
ubcur.nwyuwnyrtncjtqopwrqgnvrlywnburonyrvnrbnyjnwqqfnqgjnlougmjnuw
hyuwnyjnhutnojusrglenTyjntwqq.nuwnwyjnluwj,nludrglnubwjcnyrvnpgwro
yjnsugrtyj.nbcqvnyjcntrlywenWyjgntyjnhuofj.nzumfnrgwqnwyjnyqptj,nwyj
yukkrjtwnlrconrgnuoonPwuye




MYUKWJCnRRRen QYGnBJCCRJCnWUOFTnHRWYnWYJnKCQKYJWe


WYCJJnhjjftnyu.nkuttj.ntrgmjn jbbjctqgnYqkjnug.nyrtnmqvcu.jtnyu.
.jkucwj.nbcqvnTuownOufjnMrwxen qygnBjccrjc’tnyjucwnhutntqcjnhrwyrgnyrv
hyjgnyjnwyqplywnqbnwyjnxqpglnvug’tncjwpcg,nug.nqbnwyjnrvkjg.rglnoqttnqb
yrtnu.qkwj.nmyro.enXjwnyjcnzcrlywnug.nyukkxnbumjncjmqgmroj.nyrvnwq
wyjnuccugljvjgwnvqcjnwyugnugxnuclpvjgwnmqpo.nyusjn.qgjenYjnyu.nuohuxt
.jwjcvrgj.,n.jjkn.qhgnrgnyrtncjtqopwjnyjucw,nwyuwngqwyrglnhqpo.njsjc
rg.pmjnyrvnwqnuooqhnyrtn.uplywjcnwqnhj.nunVqcvqgenTpmynunvuccruljnyj
cjluc.j.nutngqnvuccruljnuwnuoo,nzpwnutnuntyuvjnug.nun.rtlcumjenHyuwjsjc
yjnvrlywnwyrgfnqbnwyjnVqcvqgn.qmwcrgjt,npkqgnwyuwnqgjnkqrgwnyjnhut
rgbojarzojenYjnyu.nwqntjuonyrtnvqpwynqgnwyjntpz jmw,nyqhjsjc,nbqcnwq
jakcjttnugnpgqcwyq.qanqkrgrqgnhutnun.ugljcqptnvuwwjcnrgnwyqtjn.uxtnrg
wyjnOug.nqbnwyjnTurgwte

Xjt,nun.ugljcqptnvuwwjc--tqn.ugljcqptnwyuwnjsjgnwyjnvqtwnturgwoxn.ucj.
qgoxnhyrtkjcnwyjrcncjorlrqptnqkrgrqgtnhrwynzuwj.nzcjuwy,nojtwntqvjwyrgl
hyrmynbjoonbcqvnwyjrcnorktnvrlywnzjnvrtmqgtwcpj.,nug.nzcrgln.qhgnu
thrbwncjwcrzpwrqgnpkqgnwyjvenWyjnsrmwrvtnqbnkjctjmpwrqgnyu.ngqhnwpcgj.
kjctjmpwqctnqgnwyjrcnqhgnummqpgw,nug.nkjctjmpwqctnqbnwyjnvqtw
wjccrzojn.jtmcrkwrqgenGqwnwyjnRgiprtrwrqgnqbnTjsrooj,ngqcnwyjnLjcvug
Sjyv-ljcrmyw,ngqcnwyjnTjmcjwnTqmrjwrjtnqbnRwuox,nhjcjnjsjcnuzojnwqnkpw
unvqcjnbqcvr.uzojnvumyrgjcxnrgnvqwrqgnwyugnwyuwnhyrmynmutwnunmoqp.nqsjc
wyjnTwuwjnqbnPwuye

Rwtnrgsrtrzrorwx,nug.nwyjnvxtwjcxnhyrmynhutnuwwumyj.nwqnrw,nvu.j
wyrtnqclugrduwrqgn.qpzoxnwjccrzojenRwnukkjucj.nwqnzjnqvgrtmrjgwnug.
qvgrkqwjgw,nug.nxjwnhutngjrwyjcntjjgngqcnyjuc.enWyjnvugnhyqnyjo.nqpw
ulurgtwnwyjnMypcmynsugrtyj.nuhux,nug.ngqgjnfgjhnhyrwyjcnyjnyu.nlqgjnqc
hyuwnyu.nzjbuoojgnyrvenYrtnhrbjnug.nyrtnmyro.cjgnuhurwj.nyrvnuwnyqvj,
zpwngqnbuwyjcnjsjcncjwpcgj.nwqnwjoonwyjvnyqhnyjnyu.nbucj.nuwnwyj
yug.tnqbnyrtntjmcjwn p.ljtenUncutynhqc.nqcnunyutwxnumwnhutnbqooqhj.
zxnuggryrouwrqg,nug.nxjwngqgjnfgjhnhyuwnwyjnguwpcjnvrlywnzjnqbnwyrt
wjccrzojnkqhjcnhyrmynhutntptkjg.j.nqsjcnwyjvenGqnhqg.jcnwyuwnvjg
hjgwnuzqpwnrgnbjucnug.nwcjvzorgl,nug.nwyuwnjsjgnrgnwyjnyjucwnqbnwyj
hro.jcgjttnwyjxn.ucj.ngqwnhyrtkjcnwyjn.qpzwtnhyrmynqkkcjttj.nwyjve

Uwnbrctwnwyrtnsulpjnug.nwjccrzojnkqhjcnhutnjajcmrtj.nqgoxnpkqgnwyj
cjmuomrwcugwtnhyq,nyusrglnjvzcumj.nwyjnVqcvqgnburwy,nhrtyj.nubwjchuc.t
wqnkjcsjcwnqcnwqnuzug.qgnrwenTqqg,nyqhjsjc,nrwnwqqfnunhr.jcncugljenWyj
tpkkoxnqbnu.pownhqvjgnhutncpggrglntyqcw,nug.nkqoxluvxnhrwyqpwnunbjvuoj
kqkpouwrqgnqgnhyrmynwqn.cuhnhutnunzuccjgn.qmwcrgjnrg.jj.enTwcuglj
cpvqpctnzjlugnwqnzjnzug.rj.nuzqpw--cpvqpctnqbnvpc.jcj.nrvvrlcugwtnug.
crboj.nmuvktnrgncjlrqgtnhyjcjnRg.rugtnyu.ngjsjcnzjjgntjjgenBcjtynhqvjg
ukkjucj.nrgnwyjnyucjvtnqbnwyjnJo.jct--hqvjgnhyqnkrgj.nug.nhjkw,nug.
zqcjnpkqgnwyjrcnbumjtnwyjnwcumjtnqbnugnpgjawrglprtyuzojnyqccqcenZjouwj.
hug.jcjctnpkqgnwyjnvqpgwurgtntkqfjnqbnlugltnqbnucvj.nvjg,nvutfj.,
twjuowyx,nug.ngqrtjojtt,nhyqnborwwj.nzxnwyjvnrgnwyjn.ucfgjttenWyjtj
wuojtnug.ncpvqpctnwqqfntpztwugmjnug.ntyukj,nug.nhjcjnmqccqzqcuwj.nug.
cj-mqccqzqcuwj.,npgwronwyjxncjtqosj.nwyjvtjosjtnrgwqnun.jbrgrwjnguvje
Wqnwyrtn.ux,nrgnwyjnoqgjoxncugmyjtnqbnwyjnHjtw,nwyjnguvjnqbnwyjn.ugrwj
Zug.,nqcnwyjnUsjglrglnUgljot,nrtnuntrgrtwjcnug.nugnroo-qvjgj.nqgje

Bpoojcnfgqhoj.ljnqbnwyjnqclugrduwrqgnhyrmynkcq.pmj.ntpmynwjccrzoj
cjtpowtntjcsj.nwqnrgmcjutjncuwyjcnwyugnwqnojttjgnwyjnyqccqcnhyrmynrw
rgtkrcj.nrgnwyjnvrg.tnqbnvjgenGqgjnfgjhnhyqnzjoqglj.nwqnwyrtncpwyojtt
tqmrjwxenWyjnguvjtnqbnwyjnkucwrmrkuwqctnrgnwyjn.jj.tnqbnzoqq.nug.
srqojgmjn.qgjnpg.jcnwyjnguvjnqbncjorlrqgnhjcjnfjkwnkcqbqpg.oxntjmcjwe
Wyjnsjcxnbcrjg.nwqnhyqvnxqpnmqvvpgrmuwj.nxqpcnvrtlrsrgltnutnwqnwyj
Kcqkyjwnug.nyrtnvrttrqg,nvrlywnzjnqgjnqbnwyqtjnhyqnhqpo.nmqvjnbqcwynuw
grlywnhrwynbrcjnug.nthqc.nwqnjaumwnunwjccrzojncjkucuwrqgenYjgmjnjsjcx
vugnbjucj.nyrtngjrlyzqpc,nug.ngqgjntkqfjnqbnwyjnwyrgltnhyrmynhjcj
gjucjtwnyrtnyjucwe

Qgjnbrgjnvqcgrgl,n qygnBjccrjcnhutnuzqpwnwqntjwnqpwnwqnyrtnhyjuwbrjo.t,
hyjgnyjnyjuc.nwyjnmormfnqbnwyjnouwmy,nug.,noqqfrglnwycqplynwyjnhrg.qh,
tuhnuntwqpw,ntug.x-yurcj.,nvr..oj-ulj.nvugnmqvrglnpknwyjnkuwyhuxenYrt
yjucwnojukwnwqnyrtnvqpwy,nbqcnwyrtnhutngqgjnqwyjcnwyugnwyjnlcjuwnZcrlyuv
XqpglnyrvtjobenBpoonqbnwcjkr.uwrqg--bqcnyjnfgjhnwyuwntpmynunsrtrwnzq.j.
yrvnorwwojnlqq.--Bjccrjcncugnwqnwyjn.qqcnwqnlcjjwnwyjnVqcvqgnmyrjbenWyj
ouwwjc,nyqhjsjc,ncjmjrsj.nyrtntuopwuwrqgtnmqo.ox,nug.nbqooqhj.nyrvnhrwy
untwjcgnbumjnrgwqnwyjntrwwrgl-cqqve

“ZcqwyjcnBjccrjc,”nyjntur.,nwufrglnuntjuw,nug.njxjrglnwyjnbucvjcnfjjgox
bcqvnpg.jcnyrtnorlyw-mqoqpcj.njxjoutyjt,n“wyjnwcpjnzjorjsjctnyusjnzjjg
lqq.nbcrjg.tnwqnxqpenHjnkrmfj.nxqpnpknhyjgnxqpnhjcjntwucsrglnrgnwyj
.jtjcw,nhjntyucj.nqpcnbqq.nhrwynxqp,noj.nxqpntubjnwqnwyjnMyqtjgnSuoojx,
lusjnxqpnunlqq.oxntyucjnqbnoug.,nug.nuooqhj.nxqpnwqnhuancrmynpg.jcnqpc
kcqwjmwrqgenRtngqwnwyrtntq?”

“Rwnrtntq,”nugthjcj.n qygnBjccrjce

“Rgncjwpcgnbqcnuoonwyrtnhjnutfj.nzpwnqgjnmqg.rwrqg:nwyuwnhut,nwyuwnxqp
tyqpo.njvzcumjnwyjnwcpjnburwy,nug.nmqgbqcvnrgnjsjcxnhuxnwqnrwtnptuljte
Wyrtnxqpnkcqvrtj.nwqn.q,nug.nwyrt,nrbnmqvvqgncjkqcwntuxtnwcpox,nxqpnyusj
gjlojmwj.e”

“Ug.nyqhnyusjnRngjlojmwj.nrw?”nutfj.nBjccrjc,nwycqhrglnqpwnyrtnyug.tnrg
jakqtwpouwrqgen“YusjnRngqwnlrsjgnwqnwyjnmqvvqgnbpg.?nYusjnRngqwnuwwjg.j.
uwnwyjnWjvkoj?nYusjnRngqw----?”

“Hyjcjnucjnxqpcnhrsjt?”nutfj.nXqpgl,noqqfrglncqpg.nyrven“Muoonwyjvnrg,
wyuwnRnvuxnlcjjwnwyjve”

“RwnrtnwcpjnwyuwnRnyusjngqwnvuccrj.,”nBjccrjcnugthjcj.en“Zpwnhqvjg
hjcjnbjh,nug.nwyjcjnhjcjnvugxnhyqnyu.nzjwwjcnmourvtnwyugnRenRnhutngqwnu
oqgjoxnvug:nRnyu.nvxn.uplywjcnwqnuwwjg.nwqnvxnhugwte”

“Rwnrtnqbnwyuwn.uplywjcnwyuwnRnhqpo.ntkjufnwqnxqp,”ntur.nwyjnoju.jc
qbnwyjnVqcvqgten“TyjnyutnlcqhgnwqnzjnwyjnboqhjcnqbnPwuy,nug.nyutnbqpg.
busqpcnrgnwyjnjxjtnqbnvugxnhyqnucjnyrlynrgnwyjnoug.e”

 qygnBjccrjcnlcqugj.nrgwjcguooxe

“WyjcjnucjntwqcrjtnqbnyjcnhyrmynRnhqpo.nburgn.rtzjorjsj--twqcrjtnwyuw
tyjnrtntjuoj.nwqntqvjnLjgwrojenWyrtnvptwnzjnwyjnlqttrknqbnr.ojnwqglpjte
Hyuwnrtnwyjnwyrcwjjgwyncpojnrgnwyjnmq.jnqbnwyjnturgwj.n qtjkynTvrwy?
‘Ojwnjsjcxnvur.jgnqbnwyjnwcpjnburwynvuccxnqgjnqbnwyjnjojmw;nbqcnrb
tyjnhj.nunLjgwroj,ntyjnmqvvrwtnunlcrjsqptntrge’nWyrtnzjrglntq,nrwnrt
rvkqttrzojnwyuwnxqp,nhyqnkcqbjttnwyjnyqoxnmcjj.,ntyqpo.ntpbbjcnxqpc
.uplywjcnwqnsrqouwjnrwe”

 qygnBjccrjcnvu.jngqnugthjc,nzpwnyjnkouxj.ngjcsqptoxnhrwynyrt
cr.rgl-hyrke

“Pkqgnwyrtnqgjnkqrgwnxqpcnhyqojnburwyntyuoonzjnwjtwj.--tqnrwnyutnzjjg
.jmr.j.nrgnwyjnTumcj.nMqpgmronqbnBqpcenWyjnlrconrtnxqpgl,nug.nhjnhqpo.
gqwnyusjnyjcnhj.nlcjxnyurct,ngjrwyjcnhqpo.nhjn.jkcrsjnyjcnqbnuoo
myqrmjenHjnJo.jctnyusjnvugxnyjrbjct,n[29]nzpwnqpcnmyro.cjgnvptwnuotq
zjnkcqsr.j.enTwugljctqgnyutnuntqg,nug.n.cjzzjcnyutnuntqg,nug.njrwyjcnqb
wyjvnhqpo.nlou.oxnhjomqvjnxqpcn.uplywjcnwqnwyjrcnyqptjenOjwnyjcnmyqqtj
zjwhjjgnwyjvenWyjxnucjnxqpglnug.ncrmy,nug.nqbnwyjnwcpjnburwyenHyuwntux
xqpnwqnwyuw?”

Bjccrjcncjvurgj.ntrojgwnbqcntqvjnorwwojnwrvjnhrwynyrtnzcqhtnfgrwwj.e

“Xqpnhroonlrsjnptnwrvj,”nyjntur.nuwnoutwen“Vxn.uplywjcnrtnsjcx
xqpgl--tyjnrtntmucmjnqbnugnuljnwqnvuccxe”

“Tyjntyuoonyusjnunvqgwynwqnmyqqtj,”ntur.nXqpgl,ncrtrglnbcqvnyrtntjuwe
“Uwnwyjnjg.nqbnwyuwnwrvjntyjntyuoonlrsjnyjcnugthjce”

Yjnhutnkuttrglnwycqplynwyjn.qqc,nhyjgnyjnwpcgj.,nhrwynboptyj.nbumjnug.
boutyrglnjxjten“Rwnhjcjnzjwwjcnbqcnxqp,n qygnBjccrjc,”nyjnwypg.jcj.,
“wyuwnxqpnug.ntyjnhjcjngqhnoxrglnzougmyj.ntfjojwqgtnpkqgnwyjnTrjccu
Zougmq,nwyugnwyuwnxqpntyqpo.nkpwnxqpcnhjufnhrootnulurgtwnwyjnqc.jctnqb
wyjnYqoxnBqpc!”

Hrwynunwycjuwjgrglnljtwpcjnqbnyrtnyug.,nyjnwpcgj.nbcqvnwyjn.qqc,nug.
Bjccrjcnyjuc.nyrtnyjusxntwjkntmcpgmyrglnuoqglnwyjntyrgloxnkuwye

Yjnhutntwroontrwwrglnhrwynyrtnjozqhtnpkqgnyrtnfgjjt,nmqgtr.jcrglnyqhnyj
tyqpo.nzcqumynwyjnvuwwjcnwqnyrtn.uplywjcnhyjgnuntqbwnyug.nhutnour.npkqg
yrt,nug.noqqfrglnpk,nyjntuhnyjcntwug.rglnzjtr.jnyrvenQgjnlougmjnuwnyjc
kuoj,nbcrlywjgj.nbumjntyqhj.nyrvnwyuwntyjnyu.nyjuc.nhyuwnyu.nkuttj.e

“Rnmqpo.ngqwnyjoknrw,”ntyjntur.,nrgnugthjcnwqnyrtnoqqfen“Yrtnsqrmjncugl
wycqplynwyjnyqptjenQy,nbuwyjc,nbuwyjc,nhyuwntyuoonhjn.q?”

“.qg’wnxqpntmucjnxqpctjob,”nyjnugthjcj.,n.cuhrglnyjcnwqnyrv,nug.nkuttrgl
yrtnzcqu.,ncqplynyug.nmucjttrgloxnqsjcnyjcnmyjtwgpwnyurcen“Hj’oonbranrw
pkntqvjyqhnqcnugqwyjcenXqpn.qg’wnbrg.nxqpcnbugmxnfrg.nq’nojttjgrglnbqc
wyrtnmyuk,n.qnxqp?”

Untqznug.nuntipjjdjnqbnyrtnyug.nhutnyjcnqgoxnugthjce

“Gq;nqbnmqpctjngqwenRntyqpo.g’wnmucjnwqnyjucnxqpntuxnxqpn.r.enYj’tnu
orfjoxnou.,nug.nyj’tnunMycrtwrug,nhyrmynrtnvqcjnwyugnwyjtjnbqofnyjcj,nrg
tkrwjnq’nuoonwyjrcnkcuxrglnug.nkcjumyrglenWyjcj’tnunkucwxntwucwrglnbqc
Gjsu.unwq-vqccqh,nug.nR’oonvuguljnwqntjg.nyrvnunvjttuljnojwwrglnyrvnfgqh
wyjnyqojnhjnucjnrgenRbnRnfgqhnugxwyrglnq’nwyuwnxqpglnvug,nyj’oonzjnzumf
yjcjnhrwynuntkjj.nwyuwnhqpo.nhyrknjojmwcq-wjojlcukyte”

Opmxnouplyj.nwycqplynyjcnwjuctnuwnyjcnbuwyjc’tn.jtmcrkwrqge

“Hyjgnyjnmqvjt,nyjnhroonu.srtjnptnbqcnwyjnzjtwenZpwnrwnrtnbqcnxqpnwyuw
Rnuvnbcrlywjgj.,n.jucenQgjnyjuct--qgjnyjuctntpmyn.cju.bpontwqcrjtnuzqpw
wyqtjnhyqnqkkqtjnwyjnKcqkyjw:ntqvjwyrglnwjccrzojnuohuxtnyukkjgtnwq
wyjve”

“Zpwnhjnyusjg’wnqkkqtj.nyrvnxjw,”nyjcnbuwyjcnugthjcj.en“Rwnhroonzjnwrvj
wqnoqqfnqpwnbqcntipuootnhyjgnhjn.qenHjnyusjnunmojucnvqgwynzjbqcjnpt;nuw
wyjnjg.nqbnwyuw,nRnlpjttnhjnyu.nzjtwntyrgnqpwnqbnPwuye”

“OjusjnPwuy!”

“Wyuw’tnuzqpwnwyjntrdjnqbnrwe”

“Zpwnwyjnbucv?”

“Hjnhrooncurtjnutnvpmynutnhjnmugnrgnvqgjx,nug.nojwnwyjncjtwnlqenWqnwjoo
wyjnwcpwy,nOpmx,nrwnrtg’wnwyjnbrctwnwrvjnRnyusjnwyqplywnqbn.qrglnrwenR
.qg’wnmucjnuzqpwnfgpmforglnpg.jcnwqnugxnvug,nutnwyjtjnbqofn.qnwqnwyjrc
.ucgj.nkcqkyjwenR’vnunbcjj-zqcgnUvjcrmug,nug.nrw’tnuoongjhnwqnvjenLpjtt
R’vnwqqnqo.nwqnojucgenRbnyjnmqvjtnzcqhtrglnuzqpwnwyrtnbucv,nyjnvrlyw
myugmjnwqncpgnpknulurgtwnunmyucljnqbnzpmftyqwnwcusjoorglnrgnwyjnqkkqtrwj
.rcjmwrqge”

“Zpwnwyjxnhqg’wnojwnptnojusj,”nyrtn.uplywjcnqz jmwj.e

“Hurwnwroon jbbjctqgnmqvjt,nug.nhj’oontqqgnvuguljnwyuwenRgnwyjnvjugwrvj,
.qg’wnxqpnbcjwnxqpctjob,nvxn.jucrj,nug.n.qg’wnljwnxqpcnjxjtnthjooj.npk,
jotjnyj’oonzjnhuofrglnrgwqnvjnhyjgnyjntjjtnxqpenWyjcj’tngqwyrglnwqnzj
ubjucj.nuzqpw,nug.nwyjcj’tngqn.ugljcnuwnuooe”

 qygnBjccrjcnpwwjcj.nwyjtjnmqgtqorglncjvucftnrgnunsjcxnmqgbr.jgwnwqgj,
zpwntyjnmqpo.ngqwnyjoknqztjcsrglnwyuwnyjnkur.npgptpuonmucjnwqnwyj
butwjgrglnqbnwyjn.qqctnwyuwngrlyw,nug.nwyuwnyjnmucjbpooxnmojugj.nug.
oqu.j.nwyjncptwxnqo.ntyqwlpgnhyrmynypglnpkqgnwyjnhuoonqbnyrtnzj.cqqve




MYUKWJCnRSenUnBORLYWnBQCnORBJe


QGnwyjnvqcgrglnhyrmynbqooqhj.nyrtnrgwjcsrjhnhrwynwyjnVqcvqgnKcqkyjw,
 qygnBjccrjcnhjgwnrgnwqnTuownOufjnMrwx,nug.nyusrglnbqpg.nyrt
umipurgwugmj,nhyqnhutnzqpg.nbqcnwyjnGjsu.unVqpgwurgt,nyjnjgwcptwj.nyrv
hrwynyrtnvjttuljnwqn jbbjctqgnYqkjenRgnrwnyjnwqo.nwyjnxqpglnvugnqbnwyj
rvvrgjgwn.ugljcnhyrmynwycjuwjgj.nwyjv,nug.nyqhngjmjttucxnrwnhutnwyuwnyj
tyqpo.ncjwpcgenYusrgln.qgjnwyptnyjnbjownjutrjcnrgnyrtnvrg.,nug.ncjwpcgj.
yqvjnhrwynunorlywjcnyjucwe

Utnyjnukkcqumyj.nyrtnbucv,nyjnhutntpckcrtj.nwqntjjnunyqctjnyrwmyj.nwq
jumynqbnwyjnkqtwtnqbnwyjnluwjenTwroonvqcjntpckcrtj.nhutnyjnqgnjgwjcrgl
wqnbrg.nwhqnxqpglnvjgnrgnkqttjttrqgnqbnyrtntrwwrgl-cqqvenQgj,nhrwynu
oqglnkuojnbumj,nhutnojugrglnzumfnrgnwyjncqmfrgl-myurc,nhrwynyrtnbjjw
mqmfj.npknpkqgnwyjntwqsjenWyjnqwyjc,nunzpoo-gjmfj.nxqpwynhrwynmquctj
zoquwj.nbjuwpcjt,nhutntwug.rglnrgnbcqgwnqbnwyjnhrg.qhnhrwynyrtnyug.tnrg
yrtnkqmfjw,nhyrtworglnunkqkpoucnyxvgenZqwynqbnwyjvngq..j.nwqnBjccrjcnut
yjnjgwjcj.,nug.nwyjnqgjnrgnwyjncqmfrgl-myurcnmqvvjgmj.nwyjnmqgsjctuwrqge

“Vuxzjnxqpn.qg’wnfgqhnpt,”nyjntur.en“WyrtnyjcjnrtnwyjntqgnqbnJo.jc
.cjzzjc,nug.nR’vn qtjkynTwugljctqg,nhyqnwcusjooj.nhrwynxqpnrgnwyjn.jtjcw
hyjgnwyjnOqc.ntwcjwmyj.nqpwnYrtnyug.nug.nluwyjcj.nxqpnrgwqnwyjnwcpj
bqo.e”

“UtnYjnhroonuoonwyjnguwrqgtnrgnYrtnqhgnlqq.nwrvj,”ntur.nwyjnqwyjcnrgnu
gutuonsqrmj;n“Yjnlcrg.jwyntoqhoxnzpwnjamjj.rglntvuooe”

 qygnBjccrjcnzqhj.nmqo.oxenYjnyu.nlpjttj.nhyqnyrtnsrtrwqctnhjcje

“Hjnyusjnmqvj,”nmqgwrgpj.nTwugljctqg,n“uwnwyjnu.srmjnqbnqpcnbuwyjctnwq
tqormrwnwyjnyug.nqbnxqpcn.uplywjcnbqcnhyrmyjsjcnqbnptnvuxntjjvnlqq.nwq
xqpnug.nwqnyjcenUtnRnyusjnzpwnbqpcnhrsjtnug.nZcqwyjcn.cjzzjcnyjcjnyut
tjsjg,nrwnukkjuctnwqnvjnwyuwnvxnmourvnrtnwyjntwcqgljcnqgje”

“Gux,ngux,nZcqwyjcnTwugljctqg,”nmcrj.nwyjnqwyjc;n“wyjnipjtwrqgnrtngqw
yqhnvugxnhrsjtnhjnyusj,nzpwnyqhnvugxnhjnmugnfjjkenVxnbuwyjcnyutngqh
lrsjgnqsjcnyrtnvrootnwqnvj,nug.nRnuvnwyjncrmyjcnvuge”

“Zpwnvxnkcqtkjmwtnucjnzjwwjc,”ntur.nwyjnqwyjc,nhucvoxen“Hyjgnwyj
Oqc.ncjvqsjtnvxnbuwyjc,nRntyuoonyusjnyrtnwuggrglnxuc.nug.nyrtnojuwyjc
bumwqcxenWyjgnRnuvnxqpcnjo.jc,nug.nuvnyrlyjcnrgnwyjnMypcmye”

“Rwnhroonzjnbqcnwyjnvur.jgnwqn.jmr.j,”ncj qrgj.nxqpgln.cjzzjc,ntvrcfrgl
uwnyrtnqhgncjbojmwrqgnrgnwyjnloutten“Hjnhroonojusjnrwnuoonwqnyjc
.jmrtrqge”

.pcrglnwyrtn.ruoqlpj,n qygnBjccrjcnyu.ntwqq.nbpvrglnrgnwyjn.qqchux,
yuc.oxnuzojnwqnfjjknyrtncr.rgl-hyrknbcqvnwyjnzumftnqbnyrtnwhqnsrtrwqcte

“Oqqfnyjcj,”nyjntur.nuwnoutw,ntwcr.rglnpknwqnwyjv,n“hyjgnvxn.uplywjc
tpvvqgtnxqp,nxqpnmugnmqvj,nzpwnpgwronwyjgnRn.qg’wnhugwnwqntjjnxqpcnbumjt
ulurge”

WyjnwhqnxqpglnVqcvqgtntwucj.nuwnyrvnrgnuvudjvjgwenRgnwyjrcnjxjtnwyrt
mqvkjwrwrqgnzjwhjjgnwyjvnbqcnwyjnvur.jg’tnyug.nhutnwyjnyrlyjtwnqb
yqgqpctnzqwynwqnyjcnug.nyjcnbuwyjce

“Wyjcjnucjnwhqnhuxtnqpwnqbnwyjncqqv,”nmcrj.nBjccrjc;n“wyjcjnrtnwyjn.qqc,
ug.nwyjcjnrtnwyjnhrg.qhenHyrmyn.qnxqpnmucjnwqnptj?”

Yrtnzcqhgnbumjnoqqfj.ntqntusulj,nug.nyrtnlupgwnyug.tntqnwycjuwjgrgl,
wyuwnyrtnsrtrwqctntkcuglnwqnwyjrcnbjjwnug.nzjuwnunypccrj.ncjwcjuwenWyj
qo.nbucvjcnbqooqhj.nwyjvnwqnwyjn.qqce

“Ojwnvjnfgqhnhyjgnxqpnyusjntjwwoj.nhyrmynrwnrtnwqnzj,”nyjntur.,
tuc.qgrmuooxe

“Xqpntyuoontvucwnbqcnwyrt!”nTwugljctqgnmcrj.,nhyrwjnhrwynculjen“Xqpnyusj
.jbrj.nwyjnKcqkyjwnug.nwyjnMqpgmronqbnBqpcenXqpntyuooncpjnrwnwqnwyjnjg.
qbnxqpcn.uxte”

“Wyjnyug.nqbnwyjnOqc.ntyuoonzjnyjusxnpkqgnxqp,”nmcrj.nxqpgln.cjzzjc;n“Yj
hroonucrtjnug.ntvrwjnxqp!”

“WyjgnR’oontwucwnwyjntvrwrgl,”njamourvj.nBjccrjcnbpcrqptox,nug.nhqpo.
yusjncptyj.npktwurctnbqcnyrtnlpgnyu.ngqwnOpmxntjrdj.nyrvnzxnwyjnucvnug.
cjtwcurgj.nyrvenZjbqcjnyjnmqpo.njtmukjnbcqvnyjc,nwyjnmouwwjcnqbnyqctjt’
yqqbtnwqo.nyrvnwyuwnwyjxnhjcjnzjxqg.nyrtncjumye

“Wyjnxqpglnmugwrglncutmuot!”nyjnjamourvj.,nhrkrglnwyjnkjctkrcuwrqgnbcqv
yrtnbqcjyju.;n“Rnhqpo.ntqqgjcntjjnxqpnrgnxqpcnlcusj,nvxnlrco,nwyugnwyj
hrbjnqbnjrwyjcnqbnwyjve”

“Ug.ntqntyqpo.nR,nbuwyjc,”ntyjnugthjcj.,nhrwyntkrcrw;n“zpwn jbbjctqg
hroontqqgnzjnyjcje”

“XjtenRwnhroongqwnzjnoqglnzjbqcjnyjnmqvjtenWyjntqqgjcnwyjnzjwwjc,nbqcnhj
.qngqwnfgqhnhyuwnwyjrcngjawnvqsjnvuxnzje”

Rwnhut,nrg.jj.,nyrlynwrvjnwyuwntqvjqgjnmukuzojnqbnlrsrglnu.srmjnug.
yjokntyqpo.nmqvjnwqnwyjnur.nqbnwyjntwpc.xnqo.nbucvjcnug.nyrtnu.qkwj.
.uplywjcenRgnwyjnhyqojnyrtwqcxnqbnwyjntjwwojvjgwnwyjcjnyu.ngjsjcnzjjg
tpmynunmutjnqbncugfn.rtqzj.rjgmjnwqnwyjnupwyqcrwxnqbnwyjnJo.jctenRb
vrgqcnjccqctnhjcjnkpgrtyj.ntqntwjcgox,nhyuwnhqpo.nzjnwyjnbuwjnqbnwyrt
ucmyncjzjoenBjccrjcnfgjhnwyuwnyrtnhjuowynug.nkqtrwrqgnhqpo.nzjnqbngq
usuronwqnyrvenQwyjctnutnhjoonfgqhgnug.nutncrmynutnyrvtjobnyu.nzjjg
tkrcrwj.nuhuxnzjbqcjngqh,nug.nwyjrcnlqq.tnlrsjgnqsjcnwqnwyjnMypcmyenYj
hutnunzcusjnvug,nzpwnyjnwcjvzoj.nuwnwyjnsulpj,ntyu.qhxnwjccqctnhyrmy
ypglnqsjcnyrvenUgxnfgqhgn.ugljcnyjnmqpo.nbumjnhrwynunbrcvnork,nzpw
wyrtntptkjgtjnhutnpggjcsrglenYjnmqgmjuoj.nyrtnbjuctnbcqvnyrtn.uplywjc,
yqhjsjc,nug.nubbjmwj.nwqnvufjnorlywnqbnwyjnhyqojnvuwwjc,nwyqplyntyj,
hrwynwyjnfjjgnjxjnqbnoqsj,ntuhnkourgoxnwyuwnyjnhutnroonuwnjutje

Yjnjakjmwj.nwyuwnyjnhqpo.ncjmjrsjntqvjnvjttuljnqcncjvqgtwcugmjnbcqv
Xqpglnutnwqnyrtnmqg.pmw,nug.nyjnhutngqwnvrtwufjg,nwyqplynrwnmuvjnrgnug
pgoqqfj.-bqcnvuggjcenPkqgncrtrglngjawnvqcgrglnyjnbqpg.,nwqnyrtntpckcrtj,
untvuoontipucjnqbnkukjcnkrggj.nqgnwqnwyjnmqsjcojwnqbnyrtnzj.n ptwnqsjc
yrtnmyjtwenQgnrwnhutnkcrgwj.,nrgnzqo.ntwcullorglnojwwjct:--

“Whjgwx-grgjn.uxtnucjnlrsjgnxqpnbqcnuvjg.vjgw,nug.nwyjg----”

Wyjn.utynhutnvqcjnbjuc-rgtkrcrglnwyugnugxnwycjuwnmqpo.nyusjnzjjgenYqh
wyrtnhucgrglnmuvjnrgwqnyrtncqqvnkpddoj.n qygnBjccrjcntqcjox,nbqcnyrt
tjcsugwtntojkwnrgnugnqpwyqptj,nug.nwyjn.qqctnug.nhrg.qhtnyu.nuoonzjjg
tjmpcj.enYjnmcpvkoj.nwyjnkukjcnpknug.ntur.ngqwyrglnwqnyrtn.uplywjc,nzpw
wyjnrgmr.jgwntwcpmfnunmyroonrgwqnyrtnyjucwenWyjnwhjgwx-grgjn.uxtnhjcj
jsr.jgwoxnwyjnzuougmjnqbnwyjnvqgwynhyrmynXqpglnyu.nkcqvrtj.enHyuw
twcjglwynqcnmqpculjnmqpo.nusuronulurgtwnugnjgjvxnucvj.nhrwyntpmy
vxtwjcrqptnkqhjct?nWyjnyug.nhyrmynbutwjgj.nwyuwnkrgnvrlywnyusjntwcpmf
yrvnwqnwyjnyjucw,nug.nyjnmqpo.ngjsjcnyusjnfgqhgnhyqnyu.ntourgnyrve

TwroonvqcjntyufjgnhutnyjngjawnvqcgrglenWyjxnyu.ntuwn.qhgnwqnwyjrc
zcjufbutwnhyjgnOpmxnhrwynunmcxnqbntpckcrtjnkqrgwj.npkhuc.tenRgnwyj
mjgwcjnqbnwyjnmjrorglnhutntmcuhoj.,nhrwynunzpcgj.ntwrmfnukkucjgwox,
wyjngpvzjcn28enWqnyrtn.uplywjcnrwnhutnpgrgwjoorlrzoj,nug.nyjn.r.ngqw
jgorlywjgnyjcenWyuwngrlywnyjntuwnpknhrwynyrtnlpgnug.nfjkwnhuwmynug.
huc.enYjntuhnug.nyjnyjuc.ngqwyrgl,nug.nxjwnrgnwyjnvqcgrglnunlcjuwn27nyu.
zjjgnkurgwj.npkqgnwyjnqpwtr.jnqbnyrtn.qqce

Wyptn.uxnbqooqhj.n.ux;nug.nutntpcjnutnvqcgrglnmuvjnyjnbqpg.nwyuwnyrt
pgtjjgnjgjvrjtnyu.nfjkwnwyjrcncjlrtwjc,nug.nyu.nvucfj.npknrgntqvj
mqgtkrmpqptnkqtrwrqgnyqhnvugxn.uxtnhjcjntwroonojbwnwqnyrvnqpwnqbnwyj
vqgwynqbnlcumjenTqvjwrvjtnwyjnbuwuongpvzjctnukkjucj.npkqgnwyjnhuoot,
tqvjwrvjtnpkqgnwyjnboqqct,nqmmutrqguooxnwyjxnhjcjnqgntvuoonkoumuc.t
twpmfnpkqgnwyjnluc.jgnluwjnqcnwyjncurorgltenHrwynuoonyrtnsrlrougmjn qyg
Bjccrjcnmqpo.ngqwn.rtmqsjcnhyjgmjnwyjtjn.uroxnhucgrgltnkcqmjj.j.enU
yqccqcnhyrmynhutnuovqtwntpkjctwrwrqptnmuvjnpkqgnyrvnuwnwyjntrlywnqb
wyjvenYjnzjmuvjnyulluc.nug.ncjtwojtt,nug.nyrtnjxjtnyu.nwyjnwcqpzoj.noqqf
qbntqvjnypgwj.nmcjuwpcjenYjnyu.nzpwnqgjnyqkjnrgnorbjngqh,nug.nwyuwnhut
bqcnwyjnuccrsuonqbnwyjnxqpglnypgwjcnbcqvnGjsu.ue

Whjgwxnyu.nmyuglj.nwqnbrbwjjgnug.nbrbwjjgnwqnwjg,nzpwnwyjcjnhutngqngjht
qbnwyjnuztjgwjjenQgjnzxnqgjnwyjngpvzjctn.hrg.oj.n.qhg,nug.ntwroonwyjcj
muvjngqntrlgnqbnyrvenHyjgjsjcnunyqctjvugnmouwwjcj.n.qhgnwyjncqu.,nqcnu
.crsjcntyqpwj.nuwnyrtnwjuv,nwyjnqo.nbucvjcnypccrj.nwqnwyjnluwjnwyrgfrgl
wyuwnyjoknyu.nuccrsj.nuwnoutwenUwnoutw,nhyjgnyjntuhnbrsjnlrsjnhuxnwq
bqpcnug.nwyuwnulurgnwqnwycjj,nyjnoqtwnyjucw,nug.nuzug.qgj.nuoonyqkjnqb
jtmukjenTrgloj-yug.j.,nug.nhrwynyrtnorvrwj.nfgqhoj.ljnqbnwyjnvqpgwurgt
hyrmyntpccqpg.j.nwyjntjwwojvjgw,nyjnfgjhnwyuwnyjnhutnkqhjcojttenWyj
vqcj-bcjipjgwj.ncqu.tnhjcjntwcrmwoxnhuwmyj.nug.nlpuc.j.,nug.ngqgjnmqpo.
kuttnuoqglnwyjvnhrwyqpwnugnqc.jcnbcqvnwyjnMqpgmroenWpcgnhyrmynhuxnyj
hqpo.,nwyjcjnukkjucj.nwqnzjngqnusqr.rglnwyjnzoqhnhyrmynypglnqsjcnyrve
Xjwnwyjnqo.nvugngjsjcnhusjcj.nrgnyrtncjtqopwrqgnwqnkucwnhrwynorbjnrwtjob
zjbqcjnyjnmqgtjgwj.nwqnhyuwnyjncjluc.j.nutnyrtn.uplywjc’tn.rtyqgqpce

Yjnhutntrwwrglnuoqgjnqgjnjsjgrglnkqg.jcrgln.jjkoxnqsjcnyrtnwcqpzojt,nug.
tjucmyrglnsurgoxnbqcntqvjnhuxnqpwnqbnwyjvenWyuwnvqcgrglnyu.ntyqhgnwyj
brlpcjn2npkqgnwyjnhuoonqbnyrtnyqptj,nug.nwyjngjawn.uxnhqpo.nzjnwyjnoutw
qbnwyjnuooqwwj.nwrvjenHyuwnhutnwqnyukkjgnwyjg?nUoonvuggjcnqbnsulpjnug.
wjccrzojnbugmrjtnbrooj.nyrtnrvulrguwrqgenUg.nyrtn.uplywjc--hyuwnhutnwq
zjmqvjnqbnyjcnubwjcnyjnhutnlqgj?nHutnwyjcjngqnjtmukjnbcqvnwyjnrgsrtrzoj
gjwhqcfnhyrmynhutn.cuhgnuooncqpg.nwyjvenYjntugfnyrtnyju.npkqgnwyjnwuzoj
ug.ntqzzj.nuwnwyjnwyqplywnqbnyrtnqhgnrvkqwjgmje

Hyuwnhutnwyuw?nRgnwyjntrojgmjnyjnyjuc.nunljgwojntmcuwmyrglntqpg.--oqh,
zpwnsjcxn.rtwrgmwnrgnwyjniprjwnqbnwyjngrlywenRwnmuvjnbcqvnwyjn.qqcnqb
wyjnyqptjenBjccrjcnmcjkwnrgwqnwyjnyuoonug.nortwjgj.nrgwjgwoxenWyjcj
hutnunkuptjnbqcnunbjhnvqvjgwt,nug.nwyjgnwyjnoqhnrgtr.rqptntqpg.nhut
cjkjuwj.enTqvjqgjnhutnjsr.jgwoxnwukkrglnsjcxnljgwoxnpkqgnqgjnqbnwyj
kugjotnqbnwyjn.qqcenHutnrwntqvjnvr.grlywnuttuttrgnhyqnyu.nmqvjnwqnmuccx
qpwnwyjnvpc.jcqptnqc.jctnqbnwyjntjmcjwnwcrzpguo?nQcnhutnrwntqvjnuljgw
hyqnhutnvucfrglnpknwyuwnwyjnoutwn.uxnqbnlcumjnyu.nuccrsj.en qygnBjccrjc
bjownwyuwnrgtwugwn.juwynhqpo.nzjnzjwwjcnwyugnwyjntptkjgtjnhyrmyntyqqf
yrtngjcsjtnug.nmyrooj.nyrtnyjucwenTkcrglrglnbqchuc.nyjn.cjhnwyjnzqownug.
wycjhnwyjn.qqcnqkjge

Qpwtr.jnuoonhutnmuovnug.niprjwenWyjngrlywnhutnbrgj,nug.nwyjntwuctnhjcj
whrgforglnzcrlywoxnqsjcyju.enWyjnorwwojnbcqgwnluc.jgnouxnzjbqcjnwyj
bucvjc’tnjxjtnzqpg.j.nzxnwyjnbjgmjnug.nluwj,nzpwngjrwyjcnwyjcjngqcnqg
wyjncqu.nhutnugxnypvugnzjrglnwqnzjntjjgenHrwynuntrlynqbncjorjb,nBjccrjc
oqqfj.nwqncrlywnug.nwqnojbw,npgwronyukkjgrglnwqnlougmjntwcurlywn.qhgnuw
yrtnqhgnbjjwnyjntuhnwqnyrtnutwqgrtyvjgwnunvugnoxrglnbouwnpkqgnyrtnbumj
pkqgnwyjnlcqpg.,nhrwynucvtnug.nojltnuoonutkcuhoe

Tqnpggjcsj.nhutnyjnuwnwyjntrlywnwyuwnyjnojugj.npknulurgtwnwyjnhuoonhrwy
yrtnyug.nwqnyrtnwycquwnwqntwrbojnyrtnrgmorguwrqgnwqnmuoonqpwenYrtnbrctw
wyqplywnhutnwyuwnwyjnkcqtwcuwjnbrlpcjnhutnwyuwnqbntqvjnhqpg.j.nqcn.xrgl
vug,nzpwnutnyjnhuwmyj.nrwnyjntuhnrwnhcrwyjnuoqglnwyjnlcqpg.nug.nrgwqnwyj
yuoonhrwynwyjncukr.rwxnug.ngqrtjojttgjttnqbnuntjckjgwenQgmjnhrwyrgnwyj
yqptjnwyjnvugntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjw,nmoqtj.nwyjn.qqc,nug.ncjsjuoj.nwqnwyj
utwqgrtyj.nbucvjcnwyjnbrjcmjnbumjnug.ncjtqopwjnjakcjttrqgnqbn jbbjctqg
Yqkje

“Lqq.nLq.!”nlutkj.n qygnBjccrjcen“Yqhnxqpntmucj.nvj!nHyuwjsjcnvu.jnxqp
mqvjnrgnorfjnwyuwe”

“Lrsjnvjnbqq.,”nwyjnqwyjcntur.,nyquctjoxen“Rnyusjnyu.ngqnwrvjnbqcnzrwj
qcntpknbqcnjrlyw-ug.-bqcwxnyqpcte”nYjnbopglnyrvtjobnpkqgnwyjn[21]nmqo.
vjuwnug.nzcju.nhyrmynhjcjntwroonoxrglnpkqgnwyjnwuzojnbcqvnyrtnyqtw’t
tpkkjc,nug.n.jsqpcj.nrwnsqcumrqptoxen“.qjtnOpmxnzjucnpknhjoo?”nyjnutfj.,
hyjgnyjnyu.ntuwrtbrj.nyrtnypgljce

“XjtenTyjn.qjtngqwnfgqhnwyjn.ugljc,”nyjcnbuwyjcnugthjcj.e

“WyuwnrtnhjooenWyjnyqptjnrtnhuwmyj.nqgnjsjcxntr.jenWyuwnrtnhyxnRnmcuhoj.
vxnhuxnpknwqnrwenWyjxnvuxnzjn.ucgj.ntyuck,nzpwnwyjx’cjngqwniprwjntyuck
jgqplynwqnmuwmynunHutyqjnypgwjce”

 qygnBjccrjcnbjownun.rbbjcjgwnvugngqhnwyuwnyjncjuordj.nwyuwnyjnyu.
un.jsqwj.nuooxenYjntjrdj.nwyjnxqpglnvug’tnojuwyjcxnyug.nug.nhcpglnrw
mqc.ruooxen“Xqp’cjnunvugnwqnzjnkcqp.nqb,”nyjntur.en“Wyjcjnucjngqwnvugx
hyqnhqpo.nmqvjnwqntyucjnqpcn.ugljcnug.nqpcnwcqpzojte”

“Xqp’sjnyrwnrwnwyjcj,nkuc.,”nwyjnxqpglnypgwjcnugthjcj.en“Rnyusjnu
cjtkjmwnbqcnxqp,nzpwnrbnxqpnhjcjnuoqgjnrgnwyrtnzptrgjttnR’.nwyrgfnwhrmj
zjbqcjnRnkpwnvxnyju.nrgwqntpmynunyqcgjw’tngjtwenRw’tnOpmxnwyuwnzcrgltnvj
yjcj,nug.nzjbqcjnyucvnmqvjtnqgnyjcnRnlpjttnwyjcjnhroonzjnqgjnojttnq’nwyj
YqkjnbuvroxnrgnPwuye”

“Hyuwnucjnhjnwqn.q?”

“Wq-vqccqhnrtnxqpcnoutwn.ux,nug.npgojttnxqpnumwnwq-grlywnxqpnucjnoqtwe
Rnyusjnunvpojnug.nwhqnyqctjtnhurwrglnrgnwyjnJulojnCusrgjenYqhnvpmynvqgjx
yusjnxqp?”

“Whqnwyqptug.n.qoouctnrgnlqo.,nug.nbrsjnrgngqwjte”

“Wyuwnhroon.qenRnyusjnutnvpmynvqcjnwqnu..nwqnrwenHjnvptwnkptynbqcnMuctqg
MrwxnwycqplynwyjnvqpgwurgtenXqpnyu.nzjtwnhufjnOpmxenRwnrtnutnhjoonwyuw
wyjntjcsugwtn.qngqwntojjknrgnwyjnyqptje”

HyrojnBjccrjcnhutnuztjgw,nkcjkucrglnyrtn.uplywjcnbqcnwyjnukkcqumyrgl
 qpcgjx,n jbbjctqgnYqkjnkumfj.nuoonwyjnjuwuzojtnwyuwnyjnmqpo.nbrg.nrgwq
untvuoonkucmjo,nug.nbrooj.nuntwqgjhucjn ucnhrwynhuwjc,nbqcnyjnfgjhnzx
jakjcrjgmjnwyuwnwyjnvqpgwurgnhjootnhjcjnbjhnug.nbucnzjwhjjgenYjnyu.
yuc.oxnmqvkojwj.nyrtnuccugljvjgwtnzjbqcjnwyjnbucvjcncjwpcgj.nhrwynyrt
.uplywjcnuoon.cjttj.nug.ncju.xnbqcnuntwucwenWyjnlcjjwrglnzjwhjjgnwyj
oqsjctnhutnhucv,nzpwnzcrjb,nbqcnvrgpwjtnhjcjnkcjmrqpt,nug.nwyjcjnhut
vpmynwqnzjn.qgje

“Hjnvptwnvufjnqpcntwucwnuwnqgmj,”ntur.n jbbjctqgnYqkj,ntkjufrglnrgnunoqh
zpwncjtqopwjnsqrmj,norfjnqgjnhyqncjuordjtnwyjnlcjuwgjttnqbnwyjnkjcro,
zpwnyutntwjjoj.nyrtnyjucwnwqnvjjwnrwen“Wyjnbcqgwnug.nzumfnjgwcugmjtnucj
huwmyj.,nzpwnhrwynmupwrqgnhjnvuxnljwnuhuxnwycqplynwyjntr.jnhrg.qhnug.
umcqttnwyjnbrjo.tenQgmjnqgnwyjncqu.nhjnucjnqgoxnwhqnvrojtnbcqvnwyj
CusrgjnhyjcjnwyjnyqctjtnucjnhurwrglenZxn.uxzcjufnhjntyqpo.nzjnyuob-hux
wycqplynwyjnvqpgwurgte”

“Hyuwnrbnhjnucjntwqkkj.,”nutfj.nBjccrjce

Yqkjntoukkj.nwyjncjsqosjcnzpwwnhyrmynkcqwcp.j.nbcqvnwyjnbcqgwnqbnyrt
wpgrmen“Rbnwyjxnucjnwqqnvugxnbqcnptnhjntyuoonwufjnwhqnqcnwycjjnqbnwyjv
hrwynpt,”nyjntur.nhrwynuntrgrtwjcntvroje

Wyjnorlywtnrgtr.jnwyjnyqptjnyu.nuoonzjjgnjawrglprtyj.,nug.nbcqvnwyj
.ucfjgj.nhrg.qhnBjccrjcnkjjcj.nqsjcnwyjnbrjo.tnhyrmynyu.nzjjgnyrtnqhg,
ug.nhyrmynyjnhutngqhnuzqpwnwqnuzug.qgnbqcnjsjcenYjnyu.noqglngjcsj.
yrvtjobnwqnwyjntumcrbrmj,nyqhjsjc,nug.nwyjnwyqplywnqbnwyjnyqgqpcnug.
yukkrgjttnqbnyrtn.uplywjcnqpwhjrlyj.nugxncjlcjwnuwnyrtncprgj.nbqcwpgjte
Uoonoqqfj.ntqnkjumjbponug.nyukkx,nwyjncptworglnwcjjtnug.nwyjnzcqu.
trojgwntwcjwmynqbnlcurg-oug.,nwyuwnrwnhutn.rbbrmpownwqncjuordjnwyuw
wyjntkrcrwnqbnvpc.jcnopcfj.nwycqplynrwnuooenXjwnwyjnhyrwjnbumjnug.ntjw
jakcjttrqgnqbnwyjnxqpglnypgwjcntyqhj.nwyuwnrgnyrtnukkcqumynwqnwyjnyqptj
yjnyu.ntjjgnjgqplynwqntuwrtbxnyrvnpkqgnwyuwnyju.e

Bjccrjcnmuccrj.nwyjnzulnqbnlqo.nug.ngqwjt,n jbbjctqgnYqkjnyu.nwyjntmugwx
kcqsrtrqgtnug.nhuwjc,nhyrojnOpmxnyu.nuntvuoonzpg.ojnmqgwurgrglnunbjh
qbnyjcnvqcjnsuopj.nkqttjttrqgtenQkjgrglnwyjnhrg.qhnsjcxntoqhoxnug.
mucjbpoox,nwyjxnhurwj.npgwronun.ucfnmoqp.nyu.ntqvjhyuwnqztmpcj.nwyj
grlyw,nug.nwyjgnqgjnzxnqgjnkuttj.nwycqplynrgwqnwyjnorwwojnluc.jgenHrwy
zuwj.nzcjuwynug.nmcqpmyrglnbrlpcjtnwyjxntwpvzoj.numcqttnrw,nug.nlurgj.
wyjntyjowjcnqbnwyjnyj.lj,nhyrmynwyjxntfrcwj.npgwronwyjxnmuvjnwqnwyjnluk
hyrmynqkjgj.nrgwqnwyjnmqcgbrjo.tenWyjxnyu.n ptwncjumyj.nwyrtnkqrgwnhyjg
wyjnxqpglnvugntjrdj.nyrtnwhqnmqvkugrqgtnug.n.cullj.nwyjvn.qhgnrgwqnwyj
tyu.qh,nhyjcjnwyjxnouxntrojgwnug.nwcjvzorgle

Rwnhutnutnhjoonwyuwnyrtnkcurcrjnwcurgrglnyu.nlrsjgn jbbjctqgnYqkjnwyj
juctnqbnunoxgaenYjnug.nyrtnbcrjg.tnyu.nyuc.oxnmcqpmyj.n.qhgnzjbqcjnwyj
vjougmyqoxnyqqwrglnqbnunvqpgwurgnqhonhutnyjuc.nhrwyrgnunbjhnxuc.t
qbnwyjv,nhyrmynhutnrvvj.ruwjoxnugthjcj.nzxnugqwyjcnyqqwnuwnuntvuoo
.rtwugmjenUwnwyjntuvjnvqvjgwnunsulpjntyu.qhxnbrlpcjnjvjclj.nbcqvnwyj
luknbqcnhyrmynwyjxnyu.nzjjgnvufrgl,nug.npwwjcj.nwyjnkourgwrsjntrlguonmcx
ulurg,nqgnhyrmynuntjmqg.nvugnukkjucj.nqpwnqbnwyjnqztmpcrwxe

“Wq-vqccqhnuwnvr.grlyw,”ntur.nwyjnbrctwnhyqnukkjucj.nwqnzjnrgnupwyqcrwxe
“HyjgnwyjnHyrk-kqqc-Hroonmuootnwycjjnwrvjte”

“Rwnrtnhjoo,”ncjwpcgj.nwyjnqwyjcen“TyuoonRnwjoonZcqwyjcn.cjzzjc?”

“Kuttnrwnqgnwqnyrv,nug.nbcqvnyrvnwqnwyjnqwyjctenGrgjnwqntjsjg!”

“Tjsjgnwqnbrsj!”ncjkjuwj.nwyjnqwyjc,nug.nwyjnwhqnbrlpcjtnborwwj.nuhux
rgn.rbbjcjgwn.rcjmwrqgtenWyjrcnmqgmop.rglnhqc.tnyu.njsr.jgwoxnzjjgntqvj
bqcvnqbntrlgnug.nmqpgwjctrlgenWyjnrgtwugwnwyuwnwyjrcnbqqwtwjktnyu.n.rj.
uhuxnrgnwyjn.rtwugmj,n jbbjctqgnYqkjntkcuglnwqnyrtnbjjw,nug.nyjokrglnyrt
mqvkugrqgtnwycqplynwyjnluk,noj.nwyjnhuxnumcqttnwyjnbrjo.tnuwnwyjnwqk
qbnyrtntkjj.,ntpkkqcwrglnug.nyuob-muccxrglnwyjnlrconhyjgnyjcntwcjglwy
ukkjucj.nwqnburonyjce

“Ypccxnqg!nypccxnqg!”nyjnlutkj.nbcqvnwrvjnwqnwrvjen“Hjnucjnwycqplynwyj
orgjnqbntjgwrgjotenJsjcxwyrgln.jkjg.tnqgntkjj.enYpccxnqg!”

Qgmjnqgnwyjnyrlyncqu.nwyjxnvu.jncukr.nkcqlcjttenQgoxnqgmjn.r.nwyjx
vjjwnugxqgj,nug.nwyjgnwyjxnvugulj.nwqntorknrgwqnunbrjo.,nug.ntqnusqr.
cjmqlgrwrqgenZjbqcjncjumyrglnwyjnwqhgnwyjnypgwjcnzcugmyj.nuhuxnrgwqnu
cpllj.nug.nguccqhnbqqwkuwynhyrmynoj.nwqnwyjnvqpgwurgtenWhqn.ucfn ullj.
kjuftnoqqvj.nuzqsjnwyjvnwycqplynwyjn.ucfgjtt,nug.nwyjn.jbrojnhyrmynoj.
zjwhjjgnwyjvnhutnwyjnJulojnMuñqgnrgnhyrmynwyjnyqctjtnhjcjnuhurwrglnwyjve
Hrwynpgjccrglnrgtwrgmwn jbbjctqgnYqkjnkrmfj.nyrtnhuxnuvqglnwyjnlcjuw
zqpo.jctnug.nuoqglnwyjnzj.nqbnun.crj.-pknhuwjcmqpctj,npgwronyjnmuvjnwq
wyjncjwrcj.nmqcgjc,ntmcjjgj.nhrwyncqmft,nhyjcjnwyjnburwybponugrvuotnyu.
zjjgnkrmfjwj.enWyjnlrconhutnkoumj.npkqgnwyjnvpoj,nug.nqo.nBjccrjcnpkqg
qgjnqbnwyjnyqctjt,nhrwynyrtnvqgjx-zul,nhyrojn jbbjctqgnYqkjnoj.nwyj
qwyjcnuoqglnwyjnkcjmrkrwqptnug.n.ugljcqptnkuwye

Rwnhutnunzjhro.jcrglncqpwjnbqcnugxqgjnhyqnhutngqwnummptwqvj.nwqnbumj
Guwpcjnrgnyjcnhro.jtwnvqq.tenQgnwyjnqgjntr.jnunlcjuwnmculnwqhjcj.npknu
wyqptug.nbjjwnqcnvqcj,nzoumf,ntwjcg,nug.nvjgumrgl,nhrwynoqglnzutuowrm
mqopvgtnpkqgnrwtncpllj.ntpcbumjnorfjnwyjncrztnqbntqvjnkjwcrbrj.nvqgtwjce
Qgnwyjnqwyjcnyug.nunhro.nmyuqtnqbnzqpo.jctnug.n.jzcrtnvu.jnuoonu.sugmj
rvkqttrzojenZjwhjjgnwyjnwhqncugnwyjnrccjlpoucnwcumf,ntqnguccqhnrgnkoumjt
wyuwnwyjxnyu.nwqnwcusjonrgnRg.rugnbroj,nug.ntqncqplynwyuwnqgoxnkcumwrtj.
cr.jctnmqpo.nyusjnwcusjctj.nrwnuwnuooenXjwnrgntkrwjnqbnuoon.ugljctnug.
.rbbrmpowrjt,nwyjnyjucwtnqbnwyjnbplrwrsjtnhjcjnorlywnhrwyrgnwyjv,
bqcnjsjcxntwjknrgmcjutj.nwyjn.rtwugmjnzjwhjjgnwyjvnug.nwyjnwjccrzoj
.jtkqwrtvnbcqvnhyrmynwyjxnhjcjnboxrgle

Wyjxntqqgnyu.nunkcqqb,nyqhjsjc,nwyuwnwyjxnhjcjntwroonhrwyrgnwyj
 pcrt.rmwrqgnqbnwyjnTurgwtenWyjxnyu.ncjumyj.nwyjnsjcxnhro.jtwnug.nvqtw
.jtqouwjnkqcwrqgnqbnwyjnkuttnhyjgnwyjnlrconlusjnuntwucwoj.nmcx,nug.
kqrgwj.npkhuc.tenQgnuncqmfnhyrmynqsjcoqqfj.nwyjnwcumf,ntyqhrglnqpwn.ucf
ug.nkourgnulurgtwnwyjntfx,nwyjcjntwqq.nuntqorwucxntjgwrgjoenYjntuhnwyjv
utntqqgnutnwyjxnkjcmjrsj.nyrv,nug.nyrtnvrorwucxnmyuoojgljnqbn“Hyqnlqjt
wyjcj?”ncuglnwycqplynwyjntrojgwncusrgje

“WcusjoojctnbqcnGjsu.u,”ntur.n jbbjctqgnYqkj,nhrwynyrtnyug.npkqgnwyj
crbojnhyrmynypglnzxnyrtntu..oje

Wyjxnmqpo.ntjjnwyjnoqgjoxnhuwmyjcnbrgljcrglnyrtnlpg,nug.nkjjcrgln.qhgnuw
wyjvnutnrbn.rttuwrtbrj.nuwnwyjrcncjkoxe

“Zxnhyqtjnkjcvrttrqg?”nyjnutfj.e

“WyjnYqoxnBqpc,”nugthjcj.nBjccrjcenYrtnVqcvqgnjakjcrjgmjtnyu.nwuplywnyrv
wyuwnwyuwnhutnwyjnyrlyjtwnupwyqcrwxnwqnhyrmynyjnmqpo.ncjbjce

“Grgjnbcqvntjsjg,”nmcrj.nwyjntjgwrgjoe

“Tjsjgnbcqvnbrsj,”ncjwpcgj.n jbbjctqgnYqkjnkcqvkwox,ncjvjvzjcrglnwyj
mqpgwjctrlgnhyrmynyjnyu.nyjuc.nrgnwyjnluc.jge

“Kutt,nug.nwyjnOqc.nlqnhrwynxqp,”ntur.nwyjnsqrmjnbcqvnuzqsjenZjxqg.nyrt
kqtwnwyjnkuwynzcqu.jgj.nqpw,nug.nwyjnyqctjtnhjcjnuzojnwqnzcjufnrgwqnu
wcqwenOqqfrglnzumf,nwyjxnmqpo.ntjjnwyjntqorwucxnhuwmyjcnojugrglnpkqg
yrtnlpg,nug.nfgjhnwyuwnwyjxnyu.nkuttj.nwyjnqpwoxrglnkqtwnqbnwyjnmyqtjg
kjqkoj,nug.nwyuwnbcjj.qvnouxnzjbqcjnwyjve




MYUKWJCnSenWYJnUSJGLRGLnUGLJOTe


UOOngrlywnwyjrcnmqpctjnouxnwycqplynrgwcrmuwjn.jbrojtnug.nqsjcnrccjlpouc
ug.ncqmf-twcjhgnkuwytenVqcjnwyugnqgmjnwyjxnoqtwnwyjrcnhux,nzpwnYqkj’t
rgwrvuwjnfgqhoj.ljnqbnwyjnvqpgwurgtnjguzoj.nwyjvnwqncjlurgnwyjnwcumf
qgmjnvqcjenHyjgnvqcgrglnzcqfj,nuntmjgjnqbnvucsjooqptnwyqplyntusulj
zjupwxnouxnzjbqcjnwyjvenRgnjsjcxn.rcjmwrqgnwyjnlcjuwntgqh-mukkj.nkjuft
yjvvj.nwyjvnrg,nkjjkrglnqsjcnjumynqwyjc’tntyqpo.jctnwqnwyjnbucnyqcrdqge
Tqntwjjknhjcjnwyjncqmfxnzugftnqgnjrwyjcntr.jnqbnwyjv,nwyuwnwyjnoucmy
ug.nwyjnkrgjntjjvj.nwqnzjntptkjg.j.nqsjcnwyjrcnyju.t,nug.nwqngjj.nqgoxnu
lptwnqbnhrg.nwqnmqvjnypcworgln.qhgnpkqgnwyjvenGqcnhutnwyjnbjucnjgwrcjox
ugnrooptrqg,nbqcnwyjnzuccjgnsuoojxnhutnwyrmfoxntwcjhgnhrwynwcjjtnug.
zqpo.jctnhyrmynyu.nbuoojgnrgnuntrvroucnvuggjcenJsjgnutnwyjxnkuttj.,
unlcjuwncqmfnmuvjnwypg.jcrgln.qhgnhrwynunyquctjncuwwojnhyrmynhqfj
wyjnjmyqjtnrgnwyjntrojgwnlqcljt,nug.ntwucwoj.nwyjnhjucxnyqctjtnrgwqnu
luooqke

Utnwyjntpgncqtjntoqhoxnuzqsjnwyjnjutwjcgnyqcrdqg,nwyjnmuktnqbnwyjnlcjuw
vqpgwurgtnorwnpknqgjnubwjcnwyjnqwyjc,norfjnouvktnuwnunbjtwrsuo,npgwro
wyjxnhjcjnuooncp..xnug.nloqhrglenWyjnvulgrbrmjgwntkjmwumojnmyjjcj.nwyj
yjucwtnqbnwyjnwycjjnbplrwrsjtnug.nlusjnwyjvnbcjtynjgjclxenUwnunhro.
wqccjgwnhyrmynthjkwnqpwnqbnuncusrgjnwyjxnmuooj.nunyuownug.nhuwjcj.nwyjrc
yqctjt,nhyrojnwyjxnkucwqqfnqbnunyutwxnzcjufbutwenOpmxnug.nyjcnbuwyjc
hqpo.nburgnyusjncjtwj.noqgljc,nzpwn jbbjctqgnYqkjnhutnrgjaqcuzojen“Wyjx
hroonzjnpkqgnqpcnwcumfnzxnwyrtnwrvj,”nyjntur.en“Jsjcxwyrgln.jkjg.tnpkqg
qpcntkjj.enQgmjntubjnrgnMuctqgnhjnvuxncjtwnbqcnwyjncjvurg.jcnqbnqpc
orsjte”

.pcrglnwyjnhyqojnqbnwyuwn.uxnwyjxntwcplloj.nqgnwycqplynwyjn.jbrojt,nug.
zxnjsjgrglnwyjxnmuompouwj.nwyuwnwyjxnhjcjnvqcjnwyugnwyrcwxnvrojtnbcqv
wyjrcnjgjvrjtenUwngrlyw-wrvjnwyjxnmyqtjnwyjnzutjnqbnunzjjworglnmcul,
hyjcjnwyjncqmftnqbbjcj.ntqvjnkcqwjmwrqgnbcqvnwyjnmyroonhrg.,nug.nwyjcj
yp..oj.nwqljwyjcnbqcnhucvwy,nwyjxnjg qxj.nunbjhnyqpct’ntojjkenZjbqcj
.uxzcjuf,nyqhjsjc,nwyjxnhjcjnpknug.nqgnwyjrcnhuxnqgmjnvqcjenWyjxnyu.
tjjgngqntrlgtnqbnugxnkpctpjct,nug.n jbbjctqgnYqkjnzjlugnwqnwyrgfnwyuw
wyjxnhjcjnburcoxnqpwnqbnwyjncjumynqbnwyjnwjccrzojnqclugrduwrqgnhyqtj
jgvrwxnwyjxnyu.nrgmpccj.enYjnorwwojnfgjhnyqhnbucnwyuwnrcqgnlcutknmqpo.
cjumy,nqcnyqhntqqgnrwnhutnwqnmoqtjnpkqgnwyjvnug.nmcptynwyjve

Uzqpwnwyjnvr..ojnqbnwyjntjmqg.n.uxnqbnwyjrcnborlywnwyjrcntmugwxntwqcj
qbnkcqsrtrqgtnzjlugnwqncpgnqpwenWyrtnlusjnwyjnypgwjcnorwwojnpgjutrgjtt,
yqhjsjc,nbqcnwyjcjnhutnluvjnwqnzjnyu.nuvqglnwyjnvqpgwurgt,nug.nyjnyu.
bcjipjgwoxnzjbqcjnyu.nwqn.jkjg.npkqgnyrtncrbojnbqcnwyjngjj.tnqbnorbje
Myqqtrglnuntyjowjcj.ngqqf,nyjnkroj.nwqljwyjcnunbjhn.crj.nzcugmyjtnug.
vu.jnunzoudrglnbrcj,nuwnhyrmynyrtnmqvkugrqgtnvrlywnhucvnwyjvtjosjt,nbqc
wyjxnhjcjngqhngjucoxnbrsjnwyqptug.nbjjwnuzqsjnwyjntjunojsjo,nug.nwyjnurc
hutnzrwwjcnug.nfjjgenYusrglnwjwyjcj.nwyjnyqctjt,nug.nzu.jnOpmxnu.rjp,
yjnwycjhnyrtnlpgnqsjcnyrtntyqpo.jc,nug.ntjwnqpwnrgntjucmynqbnhyuwjsjc
myugmjnvrlywnwycqhnrgnyrtnhuxenOqqfrglnzumfnyjntuhnwyjnqo.nvugnug.nwyj
xqpglnlrconmcqpmyrglnqsjcnwyjnzoudrglnbrcj,nhyrojnwyjnwycjjnugrvuot
twqq.nvqwrqgojttnrgnwyjnzumf-lcqpg.enWyjgnwyjnrgwjcsjgrglncqmftnyr.nwyjv
bcqvnyrtnsrjhe

Yjnhuofj.nbqcnunmqpkojnqbnvrojtnwycqplynqgjncusrgjnubwjcnugqwyjcnhrwyqpw
tpmmjtt,nwyqplynbcqvnwyjnvucftnpkqgnwyjnzucfnqbnwyjnwcjjt,nug.nqwyjc
rg.rmuwrqgt,nyjn p.lj.nwyuwnwyjcjnhjcjngpvjcqptnzjuctnrgnwyjnsrmrgrwxe
Uwnoutw,nubwjcnwhqnqcnwycjjnyqpct’nbcprwojttntjucmy,nyjnhutnwyrgfrglnqb
wpcgrglnzumfnrgn.jtkurc,nhyjgnmutwrglnyrtnjxjtnpkhuc.tnyjntuhnuntrlyw
hyrmyntjgwnunwycroonqbnkojutpcjnwycqplynyrtnyjucwenQgnwyjnj.ljnqbnu
 pwwrglnkrggumoj,nwycjjnqcnbqpcnypg.cj.nbjjwnuzqsjnyrv,nwyjcjntwqq.nu
mcjuwpcjntqvjhyuwncjtjvzorglnuntyjjknrgnukkjucugmj,nzpwnucvj.nhrwynu
kurcnqbnlrlugwrmnyqcgtenWyjnzrl-yqcg--bqcntqnrwnrtnmuooj.--hutnumwrgl,
kcqzuzox,nutnunlpuc.rugnqsjcnunboqmfnhyrmynhjcjnrgsrtrzojnwqnwyjnypgwjc;
zpwnbqcwpguwjoxnrwnhutnyju.rglnrgnwyjnqkkqtrwjn.rcjmwrqg,nug.nyu.ngqw
kjcmjrsj.nyrvenOxrglnqgnyrtnbumj,nyjncjtwj.nyrtncrbojnpkqgnuncqmf,nug.
wqqfnunoqglnug.ntwju.xnurvnzjbqcjn.cuhrglnwyjnwcrlljcenWyjnugrvuontkcugl
rgwqnwyjnurc,nwqwwjcj.nbqcnunvqvjgwnpkqgnwyjnj.ljnqbnwyjnkcjmrkrmj,nug.
wyjgnmuvjnmcutyrgln.qhgnrgwqnwyjnsuoojxnzjgjuwye

Wyjnmcjuwpcjnhutnwqqnpghrjo.xnwqnorbw,ntqnwyjnypgwjcnmqgwjgwj.nyrvtjob
hrwynmpwwrglnuhuxnqgjnyupgmynug.nkucwnqbnwyjnbougfenHrwynwyrtnwcqkyx
qsjcnyrtntyqpo.jc,nyjnyutwjgj.nwqncjwcumjnyrtntwjkt,nbqcnwyjnjsjgrglnhut
uocju.xn.cuhrglnrgenYjnyu.nyuc.oxntwucwj.,nyqhjsjc,nzjbqcjnyjncjuordj.
wyjn.rbbrmpowxnhyrmynbumj.nyrvenRgnyrtnjuljcgjttnyjnyu.nhug.jcj.nbuc
kutwnwyjncusrgjtnhyrmynhjcjnfgqhgnwqnyrv,nug.nrwnhutngqnjutxnvuwwjc
wqnkrmfnqpwnwyjnkuwynhyrmynyjnyu.nwufjgenWyjnsuoojxnrgnhyrmynyjnbqpg.
yrvtjobn.rsr.j.nug.ntpz-.rsr.j.nrgwqnvugxnlqcljt,nhyrmynhjcjntqnorfj
jumynqwyjcnwyuwnrwnhutnrvkqttrzojnwqn.rtwrglprtynqgjnbcqvnwyjnqwyjce
Yjnbqooqhj.nqgjnbqcnunvrojnqcnvqcjnpgwronyjnmuvjnwqnunvqpgwurgnwqccjgw
hyrmynyjnhutntpcjnwyuwnyjnyu.ngjsjcntjjgnzjbqcjenMqgsrgmj.nwyuwnyjnyu.
wufjgnwyjnhcqglnwpcg,nyjnwcrj.nugqwyjc,nzpwnhrwynwyjntuvjncjtpowenGrlyw
hutnmqvrglnqgncukr.ox,nug.nrwnhutnuovqtwn.ucfnzjbqcjnyjnuwnoutwnbqpg.
yrvtjobnrgnun.jbrojnhyrmynhutnbuvrorucnwqnyrvenJsjgnwyjgnrwnhutngqnjutx
vuwwjcnwqnfjjknwqnwyjncrlywnwcumf,nbqcnwyjnvqqgnyu.ngqwnxjwncrtjg,nug.
wyjnyrlynmorbbtnqgnjrwyjcntr.jnvu.jnwyjnqztmpcrwxnvqcjnkcqbqpg.enHjrlyj.
.qhgnhrwynyrtnzpc.jg,nug.nhjucxnbcqvnyrtnjajcwrqgt,nyjntwpvzoj.nuoqgl,
fjjkrglnpknyrtnyjucwnzxnwyjncjbojmwrqgnwyuwnjsjcxntwjknzcqplywnyrv
gjucjcnwqnOpmx,nug.nwyuwnyjnmuccrj.nhrwynyrvnjgqplynwqnjgtpcjnwyjvnbqq.
bqcnwyjncjvurg.jcnqbnwyjrcn qpcgjxe

Yjnyu.ngqhnmqvjnwqnwyjnvqpwynqbnwyjnsjcxn.jbrojnrgnhyrmynyjnyu.nojbw
wyjvenJsjgnrgnwyjn.ucfgjttnyjnmqpo.ncjmqlgrdjnwyjnqpworgjnqbnwyjnmorbbt
hyrmynzqpg.j.nrwenWyjxnvptw,nyjncjbojmwj.,nzjnuhurwrglnyrvnugarqptox,
bqcnyjnyu.nzjjgnuztjgwngjucoxnbrsjnyqpctenRgnwyjnlou.gjttnqbnyrtnyjucw
yjnkpwnyrtnyug.tnwqnyrtnvqpwynug.nvu.jnwyjnlojgncj-jmyqnwqnunoqp.nyuooqq
utnuntrlguonwyuwnyjnhutnmqvrglenYjnkuptj.nug.nortwjgj.nbqcnugnugthjce
Gqgjnmuvjntusjnyrtnqhgnmcx,nhyrmynmouwwjcj.npknwyjn.cjucxntrojgw
cusrgjt,nug.nhutnzqcgjnzumfnwqnyrtnjuctnrgnmqpgwojttncjkjwrwrqgtenUlurg
yjntyqpwj.,njsjgnoqp.jcnwyugnzjbqcj,nug.nulurgngqnhyrtkjcnmuvjnzumfnbcqv
wyjnbcrjg.tnhyqvnyjnyu.nojbwntpmynuntyqcwnwrvjnulqenUnsulpj,nguvjojtt
.cju.nmuvjnqsjcnyrv,nug.nyjnypccrj.nqghuc.tnbcugwrmuoox,n.cqkkrglnwyj
kcjmrqptnbqq.nrgnyrtnulrwuwrqge

Hyjgnyjnwpcgj.nwyjnmqcgjc,nyjnmuvjnbpoonrgntrlywnqbnwyjntkqwnhyjcjnwyj
brcjnyu.nzjjgnorwenWyjcjnhutntwroonunloqhrglnkrojnqbnhqq.nutyjtnwyjcj,
zpwnrwnyu.njsr.jgwoxngqwnzjjgnwjg.j.ntrgmjnyrtn.jkucwpcjenWyjntuvj
.ju.ntrojgmjntwrooncjrlgj.nuooncqpg.enHrwynyrtnbjuctnuoonmyuglj.nwq
mqgsrmwrqgt,nyjnypccrj.nqgenWyjcjnhutngqnorsrglnmcjuwpcjngjucnwyj
cjvurgtnqbnwyjnbrcj:nugrvuot,nvug,nvur.jg,nuoonhjcjnlqgjenRwnhutnqgox
wqqnmojucnwyuwntqvjntp..jgnug.nwjccrzojn.rtutwjcnyu.nqmmpccj.n.pcrgl
yrtnuztjgmj--un.rtutwjcnhyrmynyu.njvzcumj.nwyjvnuoo,nug.nxjwnyu.nojbwngq
wcumjtnzjyrg.nrwe

Zjhro.jcj.nug.ntwpggj.nzxnwyrtnzoqh,n jbbjctqgnYqkjnbjownyrtnyju.ntkrg
cqpg.,nug.nyu.nwqnojugnpkqgnyrtncrbojnwqntusjnyrvtjobnbcqvnbuoorglenYj
hutnjttjgwruooxnunvugnqbnumwrqg,nyqhjsjc,nug.ntkjj.roxncjmqsjcj.nbcqv
yrtnwjvkqcucxnrvkqwjgmjenTjrdrglnunyuob-mqgtpvj.nkrjmjnqbnhqq.nbcqvnwyj
tvqpo.jcrglnbrcj,nyjnzojhnrwnrgwqnunbouvj,nug.nkcqmjj.j.nhrwynrwtnyjok
wqnjauvrgjnwyjnorwwojnmuvkenWyjnlcqpg.nhutnuoontwuvkj.n.qhgnzxnwyjnbjjw
qbnyqctjt,ntyqhrglnwyuwnunoucljnkucwxnqbnvqpgwj.nvjgnyu.nqsjcwufjg
wyjnbplrwrsjt,nug.nwyjn.rcjmwrqgnqbnwyjrcnwcumftnkcqsj.nwyuwnwyjxnyu.
ubwjchuc.tnwpcgj.nzumfnwqnTuownOufjnMrwxenYu.nwyjxnmuccrj.nzumfnzqwynqb
yrtnmqvkugrqgtnhrwynwyjv?n jbbjctqgnYqkjnyu.nuovqtwnkjctpu.j.nyrvtjob
wyuwnwyjxnvptwnyusjn.qgjntq,nhyjgnyrtnjxjnbjoonpkqgnugnqz jmwnhyrmynvu.j
jsjcxngjcsjnqbnyrtnzq.xnwrglojnhrwyrgnyrvenUnorwwojnhuxnqgnqgjntr.jnqb
wyjnmuvknhutnunoqh-oxrglnyjuknqbncj..rtyntqro,nhyrmynyu.nuttpcj.ox
gqwnzjjgnwyjcjnzjbqcjenWyjcjnhutngqnvrtwufrglnrwnbqcnugxwyrglnzpwnu
gjhox-.plnlcusjenUtnwyjnxqpglnypgwjcnukkcqumyj.nrw,nyjnkjcmjrsj.nwyuwnu
twrmfnyu.nzjjgnkougwj.nqgnrw,nhrwynuntyjjwnqbnkukjcntwpmfnrgnwyjnmojbw
bqcfnqbnrwenWyjnrgtmcrkwrqgnpkqgnwyjnkukjcnhutnzcrjb,nzpwnwqnwyjnkqrgw:

nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn QYGnBJCCRJC,
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnBQCVJCOXnQBnTUOWnOUFJnMRWX,n[22]
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn.rj.nUplptwn4wy,n1860e

Wyjntwpc.xnqo.nvug,nhyqvnyjnyu.nojbwntqntyqcwnunwrvjnzjbqcj,nhutnlqgj,
wyjg,nug.nwyrtnhutnuoonyrtnjkrwukyen jbbjctqgnYqkjnoqqfj.nhro.oxncqpg.
wqntjjnrbnwyjcjnhutnuntjmqg.nlcusj,nzpwnwyjcjnhutngqntrlgnqbnqgjenOpmx
yu.nzjjgnmuccrj.nzumfnzxnwyjrcnwjccrzojnkpctpjctnwqnbpobronyjcnqcrlrguo
.jtwrgx,nzxnzjmqvrglnqgjnqbnwyjnyucjvnqbnwyjnJo.jc’tntqgenUtnwyjnxqpgl
bjooqhncjuordj.nwyjnmjcwurgwxnqbnyjcnbuwj,nug.nyrtnqhgnkqhjcojttgjttnwq
kcjsjgwnrw,nyjnhrtyj.nwyuwnyj,nwqq,nhutnoxrglnhrwynwyjnqo.nbucvjcnrgnyrt
outwntrojgwncjtwrgl-koumje

Ulurg,nyqhjsjc,nyrtnumwrsjntkrcrwntyqqfnqbbnwyjnojwyuclxnhyrmyntkcrglt
bcqvn.jtkurcenRbnwyjcjnhutngqwyrglnjotjnojbwnwqnyrv,nyjnmqpo.nuwnojutw
.jsqwjnyrtnorbjnwqncjsjgljenHrwynrg.qvrwuzojnkuwrjgmjnug.nkjctjsjcugmj,
 jbbjctqgnYqkjnkqttjttj.nuotqnunkqhjcnqbntptwurgj.nsrg.rmwrsjgjtt,nhyrmy
yjnvuxnyusjnojucgj.nbcqvnwyjnRg.rugtnuvqgltwnhyqvnyjnyu.norsj.enUtnyj
twqq.nzxnwyjn.jtqouwjnbrcj,nyjnbjownwyuwnwyjnqgoxnqgjnwyrglnhyrmynmqpo.
uttpuljnyrtnlcrjbnhqpo.nzjnwyqcqplynug.nmqvkojwjncjwcrzpwrqg,nzcqplyw
zxnyrtnqhgnyug.npkqgnyrtnjgjvrjtenYrtntwcqglnhroonug.npgwrcrglnjgjclx
tyqpo.,nyjn.jwjcvrgj.,nzjn.jsqwj.nwqnwyuwnqgjnjg.enHrwynunlcrv,nhyrwj
bumj,nyjncjwcumj.nyrtntwjktnwqnhyjcjnyjnyu.n.cqkkj.nwyjnbqq.,nug.nyusrgl
twrccj.npknwyjntvqpo.jcrglnbrcj,nyjnmqqfj.njgqplynwqnoutwnyrvnbqcnu
bjhn.uxtenWyrtnyjnvu.jnpknrgwqnunzpg.oj,nug.,nwrcj.nutnyjnhut,nyj
tjwnyrvtjobnwqnhuofnzumfnwycqplynwyjnvqpgwurgtnpkqgnwyjnwcumfnqbnwyj
usjglrglnugljote

Bqcnbrsjn.uxtnyjnwqroj.nbqqwtqcjnug.nhjucxnwycqplynwyjn.jbrojtnhyrmynyj
yu.nuocju.xnwcusjctj.nqgnyqctjzumfenUwngrlywnyjnbopglnyrvtjobn.qhgnuvqgl
wyjncqmft,nug.ntguwmyj.nunbjhnyqpctnqbntojjk;nzpwnzjbqcjn.uxzcjufnyjnhut
uohuxtnhjoonqgnyrtnhuxenQgnwyjntrawyn.ux,nyjncjumyj.nwyjnJulojnMuñqg,
bcqvnhyrmynwyjxnyu.nmqvvjgmj.nwyjrcnroo-buwj.nborlywenWyjgmjnyjnmqpo.
oqqfn.qhgnpkqgnwyjnyqvjnqbnwyjnturgwtenHqcgnug.njayuptwj.,nyjnojugj.
pkqgnyrtncrbojnug.ntyqqfnyrtnlupgwnyug.nbrjcmjoxnuwnwyjntrojgw
hr.jtkcju.nmrwxnzjgjuwynyrvenUtnyjnoqqfj.nuwnrw,nyjnqztjcsj.nwyuw
wyjcjnhjcjnboultnrgntqvjnqbnwyjnkcrgmrkuontwcjjwt,nug.nqwyjcntrlgtnqb
bjtwrsrwxenYjnhutntwroontkjmpouwrglnutnwqnhyuwnwyrtnvrlywnvjugnhyjgnyj
yjuc.nwyjnmouwwjcnqbnyqctj’tnyqqbt,nug.ntuhnunvqpgwj.nvugncr.rglnwqhuc.t
yrvenUtnyjnukkcqumyj.,nyjncjmqlgrdj.nyrvnutnunVqcvqgnguvj.nMqhkjc,nwq
hyqvnyjnyu.ncjg.jcj.ntjcsrmjtnuwn.rbbjcjgwnwrvjtenYjnwyjcjbqcjnummqtwj.
yrvnhyjgnyjnlqwnpknwqnyrv,nhrwynwyjnqz jmwnqbnbrg.rglnqpwnhyuwnOpmx
Bjccrjc’tnbuwjnyu.nzjjge

“Rnuvn jbbjctqgnYqkj,”nyjntur.en“Xqpncjvjvzjcnvje”

WyjnVqcvqgnoqqfj.nuwnyrvnhrwynpg.rtlprtj.nutwqgrtyvjgw--rg.jj.,nrwnhut
.rbbrmpownwqncjmqlgrdjnrgnwyrtnwuwwjcj.,npgfjvkwnhug.jcjc,nhrwynlyutwox
hyrwjnbumjnug.nbrjcmj,nhro.njxjt,nwyjntkcpmjnxqpglnypgwjcnqbnbqcvjc
.uxtenYusrgl,nyqhjsjc,nuwnoutw,ntuwrtbrj.nyrvtjobnutnwqnyrtnr.jgwrwx,
wyjnvug’tntpckcrtjnmyuglj.nwqnmqgtwjcguwrqge

“Xqpnucjnvu.nwqnmqvjnyjcj,”nyjnmcrj.en“Rwnrtnutnvpmynutnvxnqhgnorbjnrt
hqcwynwqnzjntjjgnwuofrglnhrwynxqpenWyjcjnrtnunhuccugwnulurgtwnxqpnbcqv
wyjnYqoxnBqpcnbqcnuttrtwrglnwyjnBjccrjctnuhuxe”

“Rn.qg’wnbjucnwyjv,nqcnwyjrcnhuccugw,”nYqkjntur.,njucgjtwoxen“Xqpnvptw
fgqhntqvjwyrglnqbnwyrtnvuwwjc,nMqhkjcenRnmqg pcjnxqpnzxnjsjcxwyrglnxqp
yqo.n.jucnwqnugthjcnunbjhnipjtwrqgtenHjnyusjnuohuxtnzjjgnbcrjg.tenBqc
Lq.’tntufj,n.qg’wncjbptjnwqnugthjcnvje”

“Hyuwnrtnrw?”nwyjnVqcvqgnutfj.npgjutroxen“ZjniprmfenWyjnsjcxncqmftnyusj
juctnug.nwyjnwcjjtnjxjte”

“HyuwnyutnzjmqvjnqbnOpmxnBjccrjc?”

“Tyjnhutnvuccrj.nxjtwjc.uxnwqnxqpgln.cjzzjcenYqo.npk,nvug,nyqo.npk,nxqp
yusjngqnorbjnojbwnrgnxqpe”

“.qg’wnvrg.nvj,”ntur.nYqkjnburgwoxenYjnhutnhyrwjnwqnwyjnsjcxnorkt,nug.
yu.ntpgfn.qhgnqgnwyjntwqgjnulurgtwnhyrmynyjnyu.nzjjgnojugrglen“Vuccrj.,
xqpntux?”

“Vuccrj.nxjtwjc.ux--wyuw’tnhyuwnwyqtjnboultnucjnbqcnqgnwyjnJg.qhvjgw
YqptjenWyjcjnhutntqvjnhqc.tnzjwhjjgnxqpgln.cjzzjcnug.nxqpglnTwugljctqg
utnwqnhyrmynhutnwqnyusjnyjcenWyjx’.nzqwynzjjgnrgnwyjnkucwxnwyuwnbqooqhj.
wyjv,nug.nTwugljctqgnyu.ntyqwnyjcnbuwyjc,nhyrmyntjjvj.nwqnlrsjnyrvnwyj
zjtwnmourv;nzpwnhyjgnwyjxnuclpj.nrwnqpwnrgnmqpgmro,n.cjzzjc’tnkucwxnhut
wyjntwcqgljc,ntqnwyjnKcqkyjwnlusjnyjcnqsjcnwqnyrvenGqnqgjnhqg’wnyusj
yjcnsjcxnoqglnwyqply,nbqcnRntuhn.juwynrgnyjcnbumjnxjtwjc.uxenTyjnrtnvqcj
orfjnunlyqtwnwyugnunhqvugenUcjnxqpnqbb,nwyjg?”

“Xjt,nRnuvnqbb,”ntur.n jbbjctqgnYqkj,nhyqnyu.ncrtjgnbcqvnyrtntjuwenYrt
bumjnvrlywnyusjnzjjgnmyrtjooj.nqpwnqbnvuczoj,ntqnyuc.nug.ntjwnhutnrwt
jakcjttrqg,nhyrojnrwtnjxjtnloqhj.nhrwynunzuojbponorlywe

“Hyjcjnucjnxqpnlqrgl?”

“Gjsjcnvrg.,”nyjnugthjcj.;nug.,ntorglrglnyrtnhjukqgnqsjcnyrtntyqpo.jc,
twcq.jnqbbn.qhgnwyjnlqcljnug.ntqnuhuxnrgwqnwyjnyjucwnqbnwyjnvqpgwurgtnwq
wyjnyupgwtnqbnwyjnhro.nzjutwtenUvqgltwnwyjvnuoonwyjcjnhutngqgjntqnbrjcmj
ug.ntqn.ugljcqptnutnyrvtjobe

Wyjnkcj.rmwrqgnqbnwyjnVqcvqgnhutnqgoxnwqqnhjoonbpobrooj.enHyjwyjcnrwnhut
wyjnwjccrzojn.juwynqbnyjcnbuwyjcnqcnwyjnjbbjmwtnqbnwyjnyuwjbponvuccrulj
rgwqnhyrmyntyjnyu.nzjjgnbqcmj.,nkqqcnOpmxngjsjcnyjo.npknyjcnyju.nulurg,
zpwnkrgj.nuhuxnug.n.rj.nhrwyrgnunvqgwyenYjcntqwwrtynyptzug.,nhyqnyu.
vuccrj.nyjcnkcrgmrkuooxnbqcnwyjntufjnqbn qygnBjccrjc’tnkcqkjcwx,n.r.ngqw
ubbjmwnugxnlcjuwnlcrjbnuwnyrtnzjcjusjvjgw;nzpwnyrtnqwyjcnhrsjtnvqpcgj.
qsjcnyjc,nug.ntuwnpknhrwynyjcnwyjngrlywnzjbqcjnwyjnzpcruo,nutnrtnwyj
VqcvqgnmptwqvenWyjxnhjcjnlcqpkj.ncqpg.nwyjnzrjcnrgnwyjnjucoxnyqpctnqb
wyjnvqcgrgl,nhyjg,nwqnwyjrcnrgjakcjttrzojnbjucnug.nutwqgrtyvjgw,
wyjn.qqcnhutnbopglnqkjg,nug.nuntusulj-oqqfrgl,nhjuwyjc-zjuwjgnvugnrg
wuwwjcj.nlucvjgwtntwcq.jnrgwqnwyjncqqvenHrwyqpwnunlougmjnqcnunhqc.nwq
wyjnmqhjcrglnhqvjg,nyjnhuofj.npknwqnwyjnhyrwjntrojgwnbrlpcjnhyrmynyu.
qgmjnmqgwurgj.nwyjnkpcjntqponqbnOpmxnBjccrjcenTwqqkrglnqsjcnyjc,nyj
kcjttj.nyrtnorktncjsjcjgwoxnwqnyjcnmqo.nbqcjyju.,nug.nwyjg,ntguwmyrgl
pknyjcnyug.,nyjnwqqfnwyjnhj..rgl-crglnbcqvnyjcnbrgljcen“Tyjntyuoongqwnzj
zpcrj.nrgnwyuw,”nyjnmcrj.nhrwynunbrjcmjntguco,nug.nzjbqcjnugnuoucvnmqpo.
zjncurtj.ntkcugln.qhgnwyjntwurctnug.nhutnlqgjenTqntwcugljnug.ntqnzcrjb
hutnwyjnjkrtq.j,nwyuwnwyjnhuwmyjctnvrlywnyusjnbqpg.nrwnyuc.nwqnzjorjsj
rwnwyjvtjosjtnqcnkjctpu.jnqwyjcnkjqkojnqbnrw,nyu.nrwngqwnzjjgnbqcnwyj
pg.jgruzojnbumwnwyuwnwyjnmrcmojwnqbnlqo.nhyrmynvucfj.nyjcnutnyusrglnzjjg
unzcr.jnyu.n.rtukkjucj.e

Bqcntqvjnvqgwytn jbbjctqgnYqkjnorgljcj.nuvqglnwyjnvqpgwurgt,noju.rgl
untwcugljnhro.norbj,nug.ngpctrglnrgnyrtnyjucwnwyjnbrjcmjn.jtrcjnbqc
sjgljugmjnhyrmynkqttjttj.nyrvenWuojtnhjcjnwqo.nrgnwyjnMrwxnqbnwyjnhjrc.
brlpcjnhyrmynhutntjjgnkcqhorglnuzqpwnwyjntpzpczt,nug.nhyrmynyupgwj.
wyjnoqgjoxnvqpgwurgnlqcljtenQgmjnunzpoojwnhyrtwoj.nwycqplynTwugljctqg’t
hrg.qhnug.nbouwwjgj.nrwtjobnpkqgnwyjnhuoonhrwyrgnunbqqwnqbnyrvenQg
ugqwyjcnqmmutrqg,nutn.cjzzjcnkuttj.npg.jcnunmorbbnunlcjuwnzqpo.jc
mcutyj.n.qhgnqgnyrv,nug.nyjnqgoxnjtmukj.nunwjccrzojn.juwynzxnwycqhrgl
yrvtjobnpkqgnyrtnbumjenWyjnwhqnxqpglnVqcvqgtnhjcjngqwnoqglnrg
.rtmqsjcrglnwyjncjutqgnqbnwyjtjnuwwjvkwtnpkqgnwyjrcnorsjt,nug.noj.
cjkjuwj.njakj.rwrqgtnrgwqnwyjnvqpgwurgtnrgnwyjnyqkjnqbnmukwpcrglnqc
froorglnwyjrcnjgjvx,nzpwnuohuxtnhrwyqpwntpmmjttenWyjgnwyjxnu.qkwj.nwyj
kcjmupwrqgnqbngjsjcnlqrglnqpwnuoqgjnqcnubwjcngrlywbuoo,nug.nqbnyusrgl
wyjrcnyqptjtnlpuc.j.enUbwjcnunwrvjnwyjxnhjcjnuzojnwqncjouanwyjtj
vjutpcjt,nbqcngqwyrglnhutnjrwyjcnyjuc.nqcntjjgnqbnwyjrcnqkkqgjgw,nug.
wyjxnyqkj.nwyuwnwrvjnyu.nmqqoj.nyrtnsrg.rmwrsjgjtte

Bucnbcqvn.qrglntq,nrwnyu.,nrbnugxwyrgl,nuplvjgwj.nrwenWyjnypgwjc’tnvrg.
hutnqbnunyuc.,npgxrjo.rglnguwpcj,nug.nwyjnkcj.qvrgugwnr.junqbncjsjglj
yu.nwufjgntpmynmqvkojwjnkqttjttrqgnqbnrwnwyuwnwyjcjnhutngqncqqvnbqc
ugxnqwyjcnjvqwrqgenYjnhut,nyqhjsjc,nuzqsjnuoonwyrgltnkcumwrmuoenYjntqqg
cjuordj.nwyuwnjsjgnyrtnrcqgnmqgtwrwpwrqgnmqpo.ngqwntwug.nwyjnrgmjttugw
twcurgnhyrmynyjnhutnkpwwrglnpkqgnrwenJakqtpcjnug.nhugwnqbnhyqojtqvjnbqq.
hjcjnhjucrglnyrvnqpwenRbnyjn.rj.norfjnun.qlnuvqglnwyjnvqpgwurgt,nhyuw
hutnwqnzjmqvjnqbnyrtncjsjgljnwyjg?nUg.nxjwntpmynun.juwynhutntpcjnwq
qsjcwufjnyrvnrbnyjnkjctrtwj.enYjnbjownwyuwnwyuwnhutnwqnkouxnyrtnjgjvx’t
luvj,ntqnyjncjopmwugwoxncjwpcgj.nwqnwyjnqo.nGjsu.unvrgjt,nwyjcjnwq
cjmcprwnyrtnyjuowynug.nwqnuvuttnvqgjxnjgqplynwqnuooqhnyrvnwqnkpctpjnyrt
qz jmwnhrwyqpwnkcrsuwrqge

Yrtnrgwjgwrqgnyu.nzjjgnwqnzjnuztjgwnunxjucnuwnwyjnvqtw,nzpwnu
mqvzrguwrqgnqbnpgbqcjtjjgnmrcmpvtwugmjtnkcjsjgwj.nyrtnojusrglnwyjnvrgjt
bqcngjucoxnbrsjenUwnwyjnjg.nqbnwyuwnwrvj,nyqhjsjc,nyrtnvjvqcxnqb
yrtnhcqgltnug.nyrtnmcusrglnbqcncjsjgljnhjcjniprwjnutnfjjgnutnqgnwyuw
vjvqcuzojngrlywnhyjgnyjnyu.ntwqq.nzxn qygnBjccrjc’tnlcusjen.rtlprtj.,
ug.npg.jcnugnuttpvj.nguvj,nyjncjwpcgj.nwqnTuownOufjnMrwx,nmucjojtt
hyuwnzjmuvjnqbnyrtnqhgnorbj,nutnoqglnutnyjnqzwurgj.nhyuwnyjnfgjhnwq
zjn ptwrmjenWyjcjnyjnbqpg.njsronwr.rgltnuhurwrglnyrvenWyjcjnyu.nzjjgnu
tmyrtvnuvqglnwyjnMyqtjgnKjqkojnunbjhnvqgwytnzjbqcj,ntqvjnqbnwyjnxqpgljc
vjvzjctnqbnwyjnMypcmynyusrglncjzjooj.nulurgtwnwyjnupwyqcrwxnqbnwyj
Jo.jct,nug.nwyjncjtpownyu.nzjjgnwyjntjmjttrqgnqbnunmjcwurgngpvzjcnqbnwyj
vuomqgwjgwt,nhyqnyu.nojbwnPwuynug.nzjmqvjnLjgwrojtenUvqglnwyjtjnyu.nzjjg
.cjzzjcnug.nTwugljctqg;nug.ngqnqgjnfgjhnhyrwyjcnwyjxnyu.nlqgjenCpvqpc
cjkqcwj.nwyuwn.cjzzjcnyu.nvugulj.nwqnmqgsjcwnunoucljnkucwnqbnyrt
kcqkjcwxnrgwqnvqgjx,nug.nwyuwnyjnyu.n.jkucwj.nunhjuowyxnvug,nhyrojnyrt
mqvkugrqg,nTwugljctqg,nhutnmqvkucuwrsjoxnkqqcenWyjcjnhutngqnmopjnuwnuoo,
yqhjsjc,nutnwqnwyjrcnhyjcjuzqpwte

Vugxnunvug,nyqhjsjcnsrg.rmwrsj,nhqpo.nyusjnuzug.qgj.nuoonwyqplywnqb
cjsjgljnrgnwyjnbumjnqbntpmynun.rbbrmpowx,nzpwn jbbjctqgnYqkjngjsjc
buowjcj.nbqcnunvqvjgwenHrwynwyjntvuoonmqvkjwjgmjnyjnkqttjttj.,njfj.nqpw
zxntpmynjvkoqxvjgwnutnyjnmqpo.nkrmfnpk,nyjnwcusjooj.nbcqvnwqhgnwqnwqhg
wycqplynwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtnrgnipjtwnqbnyrtnjgjvrjtenXjucnkuttj.nrgwq
xjuc,nyrtnzoumfnyurcnwpcgj.nlcrddoj.,nzpwntwroonyjnhug.jcj.nqg,nunypvug
zoqq.yqpg.,nhrwynyrtnvrg.nhyqooxntjwnpkqgnwyjnqgjnqz jmwnpkqgnhyrmynyj
yu.n.jsqwj.nyrtnorbjenUwnoutwnyrtnkjctjsjcugmjnhutncjhuc.j.enRwnhut
zpwnunlougmjnqbnunbumjnrgnunhrg.qh,nzpwnwyuwnqgjnlougmjnwqo.nyrvnwyuw
Mojsjoug.nrgnQyrqnkqttjttj.nwyjnvjgnhyqvnyjnhutnrgnkpctprwnqbenYj
cjwpcgj.nwqnyrtnvrtjcuzojnoq.lrgltnhrwynyrtnkougnqbnsjgljugmjnuoo
uccuglj.enRwnmyugmj.,nyqhjsjc,nwyuwn.cjzzjc,noqqfrglnbcqvnyrtnhrg.qh,
yu.ncjmqlgrdj.nwyjnsulcugwnrgnwyjntwcjjw,nug.nyu.ncju.nvpc.jcnrg
yrtnjxjtenYjnypccrj.nzjbqcjnun ptwrmjnqbnwyjnkjumj,nummqvkugrj.nzx
Twugljctqg,nhyqnyu.nzjmqvjnyrtnkcrsuwjntjmcjwucx,nug.ncjkcjtjgwj.nwqnyrv
wyuwnwyjxnhjcjnrgn.ugljcnqbnwyjrcnorsjtnbcqvnwyjn juoqptxnug.nyuwcj.nqb
ugnqo.ncrsuoenWyuwnjsjgrgln jbbjctqgnYqkjnhutnwufjgnrgwqnmptwq.x,nug.
gqwnzjrglnuzojnwqnbrg.ntpcjwrjt,nhutn.jwurgj.nbqcntqvjnhjjftenHyjgnuw
outwnyjnhutnorzjcuwj.,nrwnhutnqgoxnwqnbrg.nwyuwn.cjzzjc’tnyqptjnhut
.jtjcwj.,nug.nwyuwnyjnug.nyrtntjmcjwucxnyu.n.jkucwj.nbqcnJpcqkje

Ulurgnwyjnusjgljcnyu.nzjjgnbqroj.,nug.nulurgnyrtnmqgmjgwcuwj.nyuwcj.
pclj.nyrvnwqnmqgwrgpjnwyjnkpctprwenBpg.tnhjcjnhugwrgl,nyqhjsjc,nug.
bqcntqvjnwrvjnyjnyu.nwqncjwpcgnwqnhqcf,ntusrglnjsjcxn.qooucnbqcnyrt
ukkcqumyrgln qpcgjxenUwnoutw,nyusrglnmqoojmwj.njgqplynwqnfjjknorbjnrg
yrv,nyjn.jkucwj.nbqcnJpcqkj,nug.nwcumfj.nyrtnjgjvrjtnbcqvnmrwxnwq
mrwx,nhqcfrglnyrtnhuxnrgnugxnvjgruonmukumrwx,nzpwngjsjcnqsjcwufrglnwyj
bplrwrsjtenHyjgnyjncjumyj.nTwenKjwjctzpclnwyjxnyu.n.jkucwj.nbqcnKucrt;
ug.nhyjgnyjnbqooqhj.nwyjvnwyjcjnyjnojucgj.nwyuwnwyjxnyu.n ptwntjwnqbb
bqcnMqkjgyuljgenUwnwyjn.ugrtynmukrwuonyjnhutnulurgnunbjhn.uxtnouwj,nbqc
wyjxnyu.n qpcgjxj.nqgnwqnOqg.qg,nhyjcjnyjnuwnoutwntpmmjj.j.nrgncpggrgl
wyjvnwqnjucwyenUtnwqnhyuwnqmmpccj.nwyjcj,nhjnmuggqwn.qnzjwwjcnwyugnipqwj
wyjnqo.nypgwjc’tnqhgnummqpgw,nutn.poxncjmqc.j.nrgn.cenHuwtqg’tn qpcguo,
wqnhyrmynhjnucjnuocju.xnpg.jcntpmynqzorluwrqgte




MYUKWJCnSRenUnMQGWRGPUWRQGnQBnWYJnCJVRGRTMJGMJTnQBn QYGnHUWTQG,nVe.e


QPCnkcrtqgjc’tnbpcrqptncjtrtwugmjn.r.ngqwnukkucjgwoxnrg.rmuwjnugx
bjcqmrwxnrgnyrtn.rtkqtrwrqgnwqhuc.tnqpctjosjt,nbqcnqgnbrg.rglnyrvtjob
kqhjcojtt,nyjntvroj.nrgnugnubbuzojnvuggjc,nug.njakcjttj.nyrtnyqkjtnwyuw
yjnyu.ngqwnypcwnugxnqbnptnrgnwyjntmpbbojen“Rnlpjttnxqp’cjnlqrglnwqnwufj
vjnwqnwyjnkqormj-twuwrqg,”nyjncjvucfj.nwqnTyjcoqmfnYqovjten“Vxnmuz’tnuw
wyjn.qqcenRbnxqp’oonoqqtjnvxnojltnR’oonhuofn.qhgnwqnrwenR’vngqwntqnorlyw
wqnorbwnutnRnptj.nwqnzje”

Lcjltqgnug.nOjtwcu.jnjamyuglj.nlougmjtnutnrbnwyjxnwyqplywnwyrt
kcqkqtrwrqgncuwyjcnunzqo.nqgj;nzpwnYqovjtnuwnqgmjnwqqfnwyjnkcrtqgjcnuw
yrtnhqc.,nug.noqqtjgj.nwyjnwqhjonhyrmynhjnyu.nzqpg.ncqpg.nyrtnugmojte
[23]nYjncqtjnug.ntwcjwmyj.nyrtnojlt,nutnwyqplynwqnuttpcjnyrvtjobnwyuw
wyjxnhjcjnbcjjnqgmjnvqcjenRncjvjvzjcnwyuwnRnwyqplywnwqnvxtjob,nutnRnjxj.
yrv,nwyuwnRnyu.ntjo.qvntjjgnunvqcjnkqhjcbpooxnzprownvug;nug.nyrtn.ucf
tpgzpcgj.nbumjnzqcjnugnjakcjttrqgnqbn.jwjcvrguwrqgnug.njgjclxnhyrmynhut
utnbqcvr.uzojnutnyrtnkjctqguontwcjglwye

“Rbnwyjcj’tnunsumugwnkoumjnbqcnunmyrjbnqbnwyjnkqormj,nRncjmfqgnxqp
ucjnwyjnvugnbqcnrw,”nyjntur.,nludrglnhrwynpg.rtlprtj.nu.vrcuwrqgnuwnvx
bjooqh-oq.ljcen“Wyjnhuxnxqpnfjkwnqgnvxnwcuronhutnunmupwrqge”

“Xqpnyu.nzjwwjcnmqvjnhrwynvj,”ntur.nYqovjtnwqnwyjnwhqn.jwjmwrsjte

“Rnmugn.crsjnxqp,”ntur.nOjtwcu.je

“Lqq.!nug.nLcjltqgnmugnmqvjnrgtr.jnhrwynvjenXqpnwqq,n.qmwqc,nxqpnyusj
wufjgnugnrgwjcjtwnrgnwyjnmutjnug.nvuxnutnhjoontwrmfnwqnpte”

Rnuttjgwj.nlou.ox,nug.nhjnuoon.jtmjg.j.nwqljwyjcenQpcnkcrtqgjcnvu.jngq
uwwjvkwnuwnjtmukj,nzpwntwjkkj.nmuovoxnrgwqnwyjnmuznhyrmynyu.nzjjgnyrt,
ug.nhjnbqooqhj.nyrvenOjtwcu.jnvqpgwj.nwyjnzqa,nhyrkkj.npknwyjnyqctj,nug.
zcqplywnptnrgnunsjcxntyqcwnwrvjnwqnqpcn.jtwrguwrqgenHjnhjcjnptyjcj.nrgwq
untvuoonmyuvzjcnhyjcjnunkqormjnRgtkjmwqcngqwj.n.qhgnqpcnkcrtqgjc’tnguvj
ug.nwyjnguvjtnqbnwyjnvjgnhrwynhyqtjnvpc.jcnyjnyu.nzjjgnmyuclj.enWyj
qbbrmruonhutnunhyrwj-bumj.npgjvqwrqguonvug,nhyqnhjgwnwycqplynyrt
.pwrjtnrgnun.poonvjmyugrmuonhuxen“Wyjnkcrtqgjcnhroonzjnkpwnzjbqcjnwyj
vulrtwcuwjtnrgnwyjnmqpctjnqbnwyjnhjjf,”nyjntur.;n“rgnwyjnvjugnwrvj,nVce
 jbbjctqgnYqkj,nyusjnxqpnugxwyrglnwyuwnxqpnhrtynwqntux?nRnvptwnhucgnxqp
wyuwnxqpcnhqc.tnhroonzjnwufjgn.qhg,nug.nvuxnzjnptj.nulurgtwnxqpe”

“R’sjnlqwnunlqq.n.juonwqntux,”nqpcnkcrtqgjcntur.ntoqhoxen“Rnhugwnwqnwjoo
xqpnljgwojvjgnuoonuzqpwnrwe”

“Yu.g’wnxqpnzjwwjcncjtjcsjnwyuwnbqcnxqpcnwcruo?”nutfj.nwyjnRgtkjmwqce

“Rnvuxngjsjcnzjnwcrj.,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Xqpngjj.g’wnoqqfntwucwoj.enRw
rtg’wntprmr.jnRnuvnwyrgfrglnqbenUcjnxqpnun.qmwqc?”nYjnwpcgj.nyrtnbrjcmj
.ucfnjxjtnpkqgnvjnutnyjnutfj.nwyrtnoutwnipjtwrqge

“Xjt;nRnuv,”nRnugthjcj.e

“Wyjgnkpwnxqpcnyug.nyjcj,”nyjntur.,nhrwynuntvroj,nvqwrqgrglnhrwynyrt
vugumoj.nhcrtwtnwqhuc.tnyrtnmyjtwe

Rn.r.ntq;nug.nzjmuvjnuwnqgmjnmqgtmrqptnqbnugnjawcuqc.rgucxnwycqzzrglnug.
mqvvqwrqgnhyrmynhutnlqrglnqgnrgtr.jenWyjnhuootnqbnyrtnmyjtwntjjvj.nwq
wycroonug.niprsjcnutnunbcuronzpro.rglnhqpo.n.qnrgtr.jnhyjgntqvjnkqhjcbpo
jglrgjnhutnuwnhqcfenRgnwyjntrojgmjnqbnwyjncqqvnRnmqpo.nyjucnun.poo
ypvvrglnug.nzpddrglngqrtjnhyrmynkcqmjj.j.nbcqvnwyjntuvjntqpcmje

“Hyx,”nRnmcrj.,n“xqpnyusjnugnuqcwrmnugjpcrtv!”

“Wyuw’tnhyuwnwyjxnmuoonrw,”nyjntur.,nkoumr.oxen“Rnhjgwnwqnun.qmwqcnoutw
hjjfnuzqpwnrw,nug.nyjnwqo.nvjnwyuwnrwnrtnzqpg.nwqnzpctwnzjbqcjnvugxn.uxt
kuttj.enRwnyutnzjjgnljwwrglnhqctjnbqcnxjuctenRnlqwnrwnbcqvnqsjc-jakqtpcj
ug.npg.jc-bjj.rglnuvqglnwyjnTuownOufjnVqpgwurgtenR’sjn.qgjnvxnhqcfngqh,
ug.nRn.qg’wnmucjnyqhntqqgnRnlq,nzpwnRntyqpo.norfjnwqnojusjntqvjnummqpgw
qbnwyjnzptrgjttnzjyrg.nvjenRn.qg’wnhugwnwqnzjncjvjvzjcj.nutnunmqvvqg
mpw-wycquwe”

WyjnRgtkjmwqcnug.nwyjnwhqn.jwjmwrsjtnyu.nunypccrj.n.rtmpttrqgnutnwqnwyj
u.srtuzrorwxnqbnuooqhrglnyrvnwqnwjoonyrtntwqcxe

“.qnxqpnmqgtr.jc,n.qmwqc,nwyuwnwyjcjnrtnrvvj.ruwjn.ugljc?”nwyjnbqcvjc
utfj.,n[24]

“Vqtwnmjcwurgoxnwyjcjnrt,”nRnugthjcj.e

“Rgnwyuwnmutjnrwnrtnmojucoxnqpcn.pwx,nrgnwyjnrgwjcjtwtnqbn ptwrmj,nwq
wufjnyrtntwuwjvjgw,”ntur.nwyjnRgtkjmwqcen“Xqpnucjnuwnorzjcwx,ntrc,nwq
lrsjnxqpcnummqpgw,nhyrmynRnulurgnhucgnxqpnhroonzjnwufjgn.qhge”

“R’oontrwn.qhg,nhrwynxqpcnojusj,”nwyjnkcrtqgjcntur.,ntprwrglnwyjnumwrqg
wqnwyjnhqc.en“Wyrtnugjpcrtvnqbnvrgjnvufjtnvjnjutroxnwrcj.,nug.nwyj
wpttojnhjnyu.nyuobnugnyqpcnulqnyutngqwnvjg.j.nvuwwjctenR’vnqgnwyjnzcrgf
qbnwyjnlcusj,nug.nRnuvngqwnorfjoxnwqnorjnwqnxqpenJsjcxnhqc.nRntuxnrtnwyj
uztqopwjnwcpwy,nug.nyqhnxqpnptjnrwnrtnunvuwwjcnqbngqnmqgtjipjgmjnwqnvje”

Hrwynwyjtjnhqc.t,n jbbjctqgnYqkjnojugj.nzumfnrgnyrtnmyurcnug.nzjlug
wyjnbqooqhrglncjvucfuzojntwuwjvjgwenYjntkqfjnrgnunmuovnug.nvjwyq.rmuo
vuggjc,nutnwyqplynwyjnjsjgwtnhyrmynyjnguccuwj.nhjcjnmqvvqgkoumjnjgqplye
Rnmugnsqpmynbqcnwyjnummpcumxnqbnwyjntpz qrgj.nummqpgw,nbqcnRnyusjnyu.
ummjttnwqnOjtwcu.j’tngqwj-zqqf,nrgnhyrmynwyjnkcrtqgjc’tnhqc.tnhjcjnwufjg
.qhgnjaumwoxnutnwyjxnhjcjnpwwjcj.e

“Rwn.qg’wnvpmynvuwwjcnwqnxqpnhyxnRnyuwj.nwyjtjnvjg,”nyjntur.;n“rw’t
jgqplynwyuwnwyjxnhjcjnlprowxnqbnwyjn.juwynqbnwhqnypvugnzjrglt--unbuwyjc
ug.nun.uplywjc--ug.nwyuwnwyjxnyu.,nwyjcjbqcj,nbqcbjrwj.nwyjrcnqhg
orsjtenUbwjcnwyjnouktjnqbnwrvjnwyuwnyutnkuttj.ntrgmjnwyjrcnmcrvj,nrwnhut
rvkqttrzojnbqcnvjnwqntjmpcjnunmqgsrmwrqgnulurgtwnwyjvnrgnugxnmqpcwenR
fgjhnqbnwyjrcnlprownwyqply,nug.nRn.jwjcvrgj.nwyuwnRntyqpo.nzjn p.lj,
 pcx,nug.njajmpwrqgjcnuooncqooj.nrgwqnqgjenXqp’.nyusjn.qgjnwyjntuvj,nrb
xqpnyusjnugxnvugyqq.nrgnxqp,nrbnxqpnyu.nzjjgnrgnvxnkoumje

“WyuwnlrconwyuwnRntkqfjnqbnhutnwqnyusjnvuccrj.nvjnwhjgwxnxjuctnulqenTyj
hutnbqcmj.nrgwqnvuccxrglnwyuwntuvjn.cjzzjc,nug.nzcqfjnyjcnyjucwnqsjc
rwenRnwqqfnwyjnvuccruljncrglnbcqvnyjcn.ju.nbrgljc,nug.nRnsqhj.nwyuwnyrt
.xrglnjxjtntyqpo.ncjtwnpkqgnwyuwnsjcxncrgl,nug.nwyuwnyrtnoutwnwyqplywt
tyqpo.nzjnqbnwyjnmcrvjnbqcnhyrmynyjnhutnkpgrtyj.enRnyusjnmuccrj.
rwnuzqpwnhrwynvj,nug.nyusjnbqooqhj.nyrvnug.nyrtnummqvkormjnqsjcnwhq
mqgwrgjgwtnpgwronRnmuplywnwyjvenWyjxnwyqplywnwqnwrcjnvjnqpw,nzpwnwyjx
mqpo.ngqwn.qnrwenRbnRn.rjnwq-vqccqh,nutnrtnorfjoxnjgqply,nRn.rjnfgqhrgl
wyuwnvxnhqcfnrgnwyrtnhqco.nrtn.qgj,nug.nhjoon.qgjenWyjxnyusjnkjcrtyj.,
ug.nzxnvxnyug.enWyjcjnrtngqwyrglnojbwnbqcnvjnwqnyqkjnbqc,nqcnwqn.jtrcje

“Wyjxnhjcjncrmynug.nRnhutnkqqc,ntqnwyuwnrwnhutngqnjutxnvuwwjcnbqcnvjnwq
bqooqhnwyjvenHyjgnRnlqwnwqnOqg.qgnvxnkqmfjwnhutnuzqpwnjvkwx,nug.nRnbqpg.
wyuwnRnvptwnwpcgnvxnyug.nwqntqvjwyrglnbqcnvxnorsrglen.crsrglnug.ncr.rgl
ucjnutnguwpcuonwqnvjnutnhuofrgl,ntqnRnukkorj.nuwnunmuzqhgjc’tnqbbrmj,
ug.ntqqgnlqwnjvkoqxvjgwenRnhutnwqnzcrglnunmjcwurgntpvnunhjjfnwqnwyj
qhgjc,nug.nhyuwjsjcnhutnqsjcnwyuwnRnvrlywnfjjknbqcnvxtjobenWyjcjnhut
tjo.qvnvpmynqsjc,nzpwnRnvugulj.nwqntmcukjnuoqglntqvjyqhenWyjnyuc.jtwn qz
hutnwqnojucgnvxnhuxnuzqpw,nbqcnRncjmfqgnwyuwnqbnuoonwyjnvudjtnwyuwnjsjc
hjcjnmqgwcrsj.,nwyrtnmrwxnrtnwyjnvqtwnmqgbptrglenRnyu.nunvuknzjtr.jnvj
wyqply,nug.nhyjgnqgmjnRnyu.ntkqwwj.nwyjnkcrgmrkuonyqwjotnug.ntwuwrqgt,nR
lqwnqgnkcjwwxnhjooe

“RwnhutntqvjnwrvjnzjbqcjnRnbqpg.nqpwnhyjcjnvxnwhqnljgwojvjgnhjcjnorsrgl;
zpwnRnrgiprcj.nug.nrgiprcj.npgwronuwnoutwnRn.cqkkj.numcqttnwyjvenWyjx
hjcjnuwnunzquc.rgl-yqptjnuwnMuvzjchjoo,nqsjcnqgnwyjnqwyjcntr.jnqbnwyj
crsjcenHyjgnqgmjnRnbqpg.nwyjvnqpwnRnfgjhnwyuwnRnyu.nwyjvnuwnvxnvjcmxenR
yu.nlcqhgnvxnzjuc.,nug.nwyjcjnhutngqnmyugmjnqbnwyjrcncjmqlgrdrglnvje
Rnhqpo.n.qlnwyjvnug.nbqooqhnwyjvnpgwronRntuhnvxnqkkqcwpgrwxenRnhut
.jwjcvrgj.nwyuwnwyjxntyqpo.ngqwnjtmukjnvjnulurge

“Wyjxnhjcjnsjcxngjucn.qrglnrwnbqcnuoonwyuwenLqnhyjcjnwyjxnhqpo.nuzqpw
Oqg.qg,nRnhutnuohuxtnuwnwyjrcnyjjotenTqvjwrvjtnRnbqooqhj.nwyjvnqgnvx
muz,nug.ntqvjwrvjtnqgnbqqw,nzpwnwyjnbqcvjcnhutnwyjnzjtw,nbqcnwyjgnwyjx
mqpo.ngqwnljwnuhuxnbcqvnvjenRwnhutnqgoxnjucoxnrgnwyjnvqcgrglnqcnouwj
uwngrlywnwyuwnRnmqpo.njucgnugxwyrgl,ntqnwyuwnRnzjlugnwqnljwnzjyrg.nyug.
hrwynvxnjvkoqxjcenRn.r.ngqwnvrg.nwyuw,nyqhjsjc,nutnoqglnutnRnmqpo.noux
vxnyug.npkqgnwyjnvjgnRnhugwj.e

“Wyjxnhjcjnsjcxnmpggrgl,nwyqplyenWyjxnvptwnyusjnwyqplywnwyuwnwyjcjnhut
tqvjnmyugmjnqbnwyjrcnzjrglnbqooqhj.,nbqcnwyjxnhqpo.ngjsjcnlqnqpwnuoqgj,
ug.ngjsjcnubwjcngrlywbuooen.pcrglnwhqnhjjftnRn.cqsjnzjyrg.nwyjvnjsjcx
.ux,nug.ngjsjcnqgmjntuhnwyjvntjkucuwjen.cjzzjcnyrvtjobnhutn.cpgfnyuob
wyjnwrvj,nzpwnTwugljctqgnhutngqwnwqnzjnmuplywngukkrglenRnhuwmyj.nwyjv
ouwjnug.njucox,nzpwngjsjcntuhnwyjnlyqtwnqbnunmyugmj;nzpwnRnhutngqw
.rtmqpculj.,nbqcntqvjwyrglnwqo.nvjnwyuwnwyjnyqpcnyu.nuovqtwnmqvjenVx
qgoxnbjucnhutnwyuwnwyrtnwyrglnrgnvxnmyjtwnvrlywnzpctwnunorwwojnwqqntqqg
ug.nojusjnvxnhqcfnpg.qgje

“Uwnoutw,nqgjnjsjgrglnRnhutn.crsrglnpknug.n.qhgnWqcipuxnWjccumj,nutnwyj
twcjjwnhutnmuooj.nrgnhyrmynwyjxnzquc.j.,nhyjgnRntuhnunmuzn.crsjnpknwq
wyjrcn.qqcenKcjtjgwoxntqvjnoplluljnhutnzcqplywnqpw,nug.nubwjcnunwrvj
.cjzzjcnug.nTwugljctqgnbqooqhj.nrw,nug.n.cqsjnqbbenRnhyrkkj.npknvxnyqctj
ug.nfjkwnhrwyrgntrlywnqbnwyjv,nbjjorglnsjcxnroonuwnjutj,nbqcnRnbjucj.
wyuwnwyjxnhjcjnlqrglnwqntyrbwnwyjrcnipucwjctenUwnJptwqgnTwuwrqgnwyjx
lqwnqpw,nug.nRnojbwnunzqxnwqnyqo.nvxnyqctj,nug.nbqooqhj.nwyjvnqgnwqnwyj
kouwbqcvenRnyjuc.nwyjvnutfnbqcnwyjnOrsjckqqonwcurg,nug.nwyjnlpuc.nugthjc
wyuwnqgjnyu.n ptwnlqgjnug.nwyjcjnhqpo.ngqwnzjnugqwyjcnbqcntqvjnyqpcte
Twugljctqgntjjvj.nwqnzjnkpwnqpwnuwnwyuw,nzpwn.cjzzjcnhutncuwyjcnkojutj.
wyugnqwyjchrtjenRnlqwntqnmoqtjnwqnwyjvnrgnwyjnzptwojnwyuwnRnmqpo.nyjuc
jsjcxnhqc.nwyuwnkuttj.nzjwhjjgnwyjven.cjzzjcntur.nwyuwnyjnyu.nunorwwoj
zptrgjttnqbnyrtnqhgnwqn.q,nug.nwyuwnrbnwyjnqwyjcnhqpo.nhurwnbqcnyrvnyj
hqpo.ntqqgncj qrgnyrvenYrtnmqvkugrqgncjvqgtwcuwj.nhrwynyrv,nug.ncjvrg.j.
yrvnwyuwnwyjxnyu.ncjtqosj.nwqntwrmfnwqljwyjcen.cjzzjcnugthjcj.nwyuwnwyj
vuwwjcnhutnun.jormuwjnqgj,nug.nwyuwnyjnvptwnlqnuoqgjenRnmqpo.ngqwnmuwmy
hyuwnTwugljctqgntur.nwqnwyuw,nzpwnwyjnqwyjcnzpctwnqpwnthjucrgl,nug.
cjvrg.j.nyrvnwyuwnyjnhutngqwyrglnvqcjnwyugnyrtnkur.ntjcsugw,nug.nwyuwnyj
vptwngqwnkcjtpvjnwqn.rmwuwjnwqnyrvenQgnwyuwnwyjnTjmcjwucxnlusjnrwnpk
utnunzu.n qz,nug.ntrvkoxnzuclurgj.nhrwynyrvnwyuwnrbnyjnvrttj.nwyjnoutw
wcurgnyjntyqpo.ncj qrgnyrvnuwnYuoor.ux’tnKcrsuwjnYqwjo;nwqnhyrmyn.cjzzjc
ugthjcj.nwyuwnyjnhqpo.nzjnzumfnqgnwyjnkouwbqcvnzjbqcjnjojsjg,nug.nvu.j
yrtnhuxnqpwnqbnwyjntwuwrqge

“WyjnvqvjgwnbqcnhyrmynRnyu.nhurwj.ntqnoqglnyu.nuwnoutwnmqvjenRnyu.nvx
jgjvrjtnhrwyrgnvxnkqhjcenWqljwyjcnwyjxnmqpo.nkcqwjmwnjumynqwyjc,
zpwntrgloxnwyjxnhjcjnuwnvxnvjcmxenRn.r.ngqwnumw,nyqhjsjc,nhrwynpg.pj
kcjmrkrwuwrqgenVxnkougtnhjcjnuocju.xnbqcvj.enWyjcjnrtngqntuwrtbumwrqgnrg
sjgljugmjnpgojttnwyjnqbbjg.jcnyutnwrvjnwqncjuordjnhyqnrwnrtnwyuwntwcrfjt
yrv,nug.nhyxncjwcrzpwrqgnyutnmqvjnpkqgnyrvenRnyu.nvxnkougtnuccuglj.nzx
hyrmynRntyqpo.nyusjnwyjnqkkqcwpgrwxnqbnvufrglnwyjnvugnhyqnyu.nhcqglj.nvj
pg.jctwug.nwyuwnyrtnqo.ntrgnyu.nbqpg.nyrvnqpwenRwnmyugmj.nwyuwntqvjn.uxt
zjbqcjnunljgwojvugnhyqnyu.nzjjgnjglulj.nrgnoqqfrglnqsjcntqvjnyqptjtnrg
wyjnZcrawqgnCqu.nyu.n.cqkkj.nwyjnfjxnqbnqgjnqbnwyjvnrgnvxnmuccruljenRw
hutnmourvj.nwyuwntuvjnjsjgrgl,nug.ncjwpcgj.;nzpwnrgnwyjnrgwjcsuonRnyu.
wufjgnunvqpo.rglnqbnrw,nug.nyu.nun.pkormuwjnmqgtwcpmwj.enZxnvjugtnqb
wyrtnRnyu.nummjttnwqnuwnojutwnqgjntkqwnrgnwyrtnlcjuwnmrwxnhyjcjnRnmqpo.
cjoxnpkqgnzjrglnbcjjnbcqvnrgwjccpkwrqgenYqhnwqnljwn.cjzzjcnwqnwyuwnyqptj
hutnwyjn.rbbrmpownkcqzojvnhyrmynRnyu.ngqhnwqntqosje

“Yjnhuofj.n.qhgnwyjncqu.nug.nhjgwnrgwqnqgjnqcnwhqnoripqcntyqkt,ntwuxrgl
bqcngjucoxnyuob-ug-yqpcnrgnwyjnoutwnqbnwyjvenHyjgnyjnmuvjnqpwnyj
twulljcj.nrgnyrtnhuof,nug.nhutnjsr.jgwoxnkcjwwxnhjoonqgenWyjcjnhutnu
yugtqvn ptwnrgnbcqgwnqbnvj,nug.nyjnyuroj.nrwenRnbqooqhj.nrwntqnmoqtj
wyuwnwyjngqtjnqbnvxnyqctjnhutnhrwyrgnunxuc.nqbnyrtn.crsjcnwyjnhyqojnhuxe
Hjncuwwoj.numcqttnHuwjcoqqnZcr.ljnug.nwycqplynvrojtnqbntwcjjwt,npgwro,
wqnvxnutwqgrtyvjgw,nhjnbqpg.nqpctjosjtnzumfnrgnwyjnWjccumjnrgnhyrmynyj
yu.nzquc.j.enRnmqpo.ngqwnrvulrgjnhyuwnyrtnrgwjgwrqgnhutnrgncjwpcgrgl
wyjcj;nzpwnRnhjgwnqgnug.nkpooj.npknvxnmuznunypg.cj.nxuc.tnqcntqnbcqv
wyjnyqptjenYjnjgwjcj.nrw,nug.nyrtnyugtqvn.cqsjnuhuxenLrsjnvjnunlouttnqb
huwjc,nrbnxqpnkojutjenVxnvqpwynljwtn.cxnhrwynwyjnwuofrgle”

Rnyug.j.nyrvnwyjnloutt,nug.nyjn.cugfnrwn.qhge

“Wyuw’tnzjwwjc,”nyjntur.en“Hjoo,nRnhurwj.nbqcnunipucwjcnqbnugnyqpc,nqc
vqcj,nhyjgntp..jgoxnwyjcjnmuvjnungqrtjnorfjnkjqkojntwcpllorglnrgtr.jnwyj
yqptjenGjawnvqvjgwnwyjn.qqcnhutnbopglnqkjgnug.nwhqnvjgnukkjucj.,nqgjnqb
hyqvnhutn.cjzzjc,nug.nwyjnqwyjcnhutnunxqpglnmyuknhyqvnRnyu.ngjsjcntjjg
zjbqcjenWyrtnbjooqhnyu.n.cjzzjcnzxnwyjnmqoouc,nug.nhyjgnwyjxnmuvjnwq
wyjnyju.nqbnwyjntwjktnyjnlusjnyrvnuntyqsjnug.nunfrmfnhyrmyntjgwnyrvnyuob
umcqttnwyjncqu.en‘Xqpnyqpg.,’nyjnmcrj.,ntyufrglnyrtntwrmfnuwnyrv;n‘R’oo
wjumynxqpnwqnrgtpownugnyqgjtwnlrco!’nYjnhutntqnyqwnwyuwnRnwyrgfnyjnhqpo.
yusjnwycutyj.n.cjzzjcnhrwynyrtnmp.ljo,nqgoxnwyuwnwyjnmpcntwulljcj.nuhux
.qhgnwyjncqu.nutnbutwnutnyrtnojltnhqpo.nmuccxnyrvenYjncugnutnbucnutnwyj
mqcgjc,nug.nwyjg,ntjjrglnvxnmuz,nyjnyuroj.nvjnug.n pvkj.nrgen‘.crsjnvj
wqnYuoor.ux’tnKcrsuwjnYqwjo,’ntur.nyje

“HyjgnRnyu.nyrvnburcoxnrgtr.jnvxnmuz,nvxnyjucwn pvkj.ntqnhrwyn qxnwyuw
Rnbjucj.nojtwnuwnwyrtnoutwnvqvjgwnvxnugjpcrtvnvrlywnlqnhcqglenRn.cqsj
uoqglntoqhox,nhjrlyrglnrgnvxnqhgnvrg.nhyuwnrwnhutnzjtwnwqn.qenRnvrlyw
wufjnyrvncrlywnqpwnrgwqnwyjnmqpgwcx,nug.nwyjcjnrgntqvjn.jtjcwj.nougj
yusjnvxnoutwnrgwjcsrjhnhrwynyrvenRnyu.nuovqtwn.jmr.j.npkqgnwyrt,nhyjgnyj
tqosj.nwyjnkcqzojvnbqcnvjenWyjnmcudjnbqcn.crgfnyu.ntjrdj.nyrvnulurg,nug.
yjnqc.jcj.nvjnwqnkpoonpknqpwtr.jnunlrgnkuoumjenYjnhjgwnrg,nojusrglnhqc.
wyuwnRntyqpo.nhurwnbqcnyrvenWyjcjnyjncjvurgj.npgwronmoqtrglnwrvj,nug.
hyjgnyjnmuvjnqpwnyjnhutntqnbucnlqgjnwyuwnRnfgjhnwyjnluvjnhutnrgnvxnqhg
yug.te

“.qg’wnrvulrgjnwyuwnRnrgwjg.j.nwqnfroonyrvnrgnmqo.nzoqq.enRwnhqpo.nqgox
yusjnzjjgncrlr.n ptwrmjnrbnRnyu.n.qgjntq,nzpwnRnmqpo.ngqwnzcrglnvxtjob
wqn.qnrwenRnyu.noqgln.jwjcvrgj.nwyuwnyjntyqpo.nyusjnuntyqhnbqcnyrtnorbj
rbnyjnmyqtjnwqnwufjnu.sugwuljnqbnrwenUvqglnwyjnvugxnzroojwtnhyrmynR
yusjnbrooj.nrgnUvjcrmun.pcrglnvxnhug.jcrglnorbj,nRnhutnqgmjn ugrwqcnug.
thjjkjcnqpwnqbnwyjnouzqcuwqcxnuwnXqcfnMqoojljenQgjn.uxnwyjnkcqbjttqcnhut
ojmwpcrglnqgnkqrtrqgt,n[25]nug.nyjntyqhj.nyrtntwp.jgwtntqvjnuofuoqr.,
utnyjnmuooj.nrw,nhyrmynyjnyu.njawcumwj.nbcqvntqvjnTqpwynUvjcrmugnuccqh
kqrtqg,nug.nhyrmynhutntqnkqhjcbponwyuwnwyjnojutwnlcurgnvjugwnrgtwugw
.juwyenRntkqwwj.nwyjnzqwwojnrgnhyrmynwyrtnkcjkucuwrqgnhutnfjkw,nug.nhyjg
wyjxnhjcjnuoonlqgj,nRnyjokj.nvxtjobnwqnunorwwojnqbnrwenRnhutnunburcox
lqq.n.rtkjgtjc,ntqnRnhqcfj.nwyrtnuofuoqr.nrgwqntvuoo,ntqopzojnkroot,nug.
jumynkroonRnkpwnrgnunzqanhrwynuntrvroucnkroonvu.jnhrwyqpwnwyjnkqrtqge
Rn.jwjcvrgj.nuwnwyjnwrvjnwyuwnhyjgnRnyu.nvxnmyugmj,nvxnljgwojvjgntyqpo.
jumynyusjnun.cuhnqpwnqbnqgjnqbnwyjtjnzqajt,nhyrojnRnuwjnwyjnkroonwyuw
cjvurgj.enRwnhqpo.nzjniprwjnutn.ju.ox,nug.nunlqq.n.juonojttngqrtxnwyug
brcrglnumcqttnunyug.fjcmyrjbenBcqvnwyuwn.uxnRnyu.nuohuxtnvxnkroonzqajt
uzqpwnhrwynvj,nug.nwyjnwrvjnyu.ngqhnmqvjnhyjgnRnhutnwqnptjnwyjve

“Rwnhutngjucjcnqgjnwyugnwhjosj,nug.nunhro.,nzojufngrlyw,nzoqhrglnyuc.
ug.ncurgrglnrgnwqccjgwten.rtvuonutnrwnhutnqpwtr.j,nRnhutnlou.nhrwyrg--tq
lou.nwyuwnRnmqpo.nyusjntyqpwj.nqpwnbcqvnkpcjnjapowuwrqgenRbnugxnqbnxqp
ljgwojvjgnyusjnjsjcnkrgj.nbqcnunwyrgl,nug.noqglj.nbqcnrwn.pcrglnwhjgwx
oqglnxjuct,nug.nwyjgntp..jgoxnbqpg.nrwnhrwyrgnxqpcncjumy,nxqpnhqpo.
pg.jctwug.nvxnbjjorgltenRnorwnunmrluc,nug.nkpbbj.nuwnrwnwqntwju.xnvx
gjcsjt,nzpwnvxnyug.tnhjcjnwcjvzorgl,nug.nvxnwjvkojtnwycqzzrglnhrwy
jamrwjvjgwenUtnRn.cqsj,nRnmqpo.ntjjnqo.n qygnBjccrjcnug.nthjjwnOpmx
oqqfrglnuwnvjnqpwnqbnwyjn.ucfgjttnug.ntvrorglnuwnvj,n ptwnutnkourgnutnR
tjjnxqpnuoonrgnwyrtncqqvenUoonwyjnhuxnwyjxnhjcjnuyju.nqbnvj,nqgjnqgnjumy
tr.jnqbnwyjnyqctjnpgwronRnkpooj.npknuwnwyjnyqptjnrgnwyjnZcrawqgnCqu.e

“Wyjcjnhutngqwnuntqponwqnzjntjjg,ngqcnuntqpg.nwqnzjnyjuc.,njamjkwnwyj
.crkkrglnqbnwyjncurgenHyjgnRnoqqfj.nrgnuwnwyjnhrg.qh,nRnbqpg.n.cjzzjc
uoonyp..oj.nwqljwyjcnrgnun.cpgfjgntojjkenRntyqqfnyrvnzxnwyjnucv,n‘Rw’t
wrvjnwqnljwnqpw,’nRntur.e

“‘Uooncrlyw,nmuzzx,’ntur.nyje

“Rntpkkqtjnyjnwyqplywnhjnyu.nmqvjnwqnwyjnyqwjonwyuwnyjnyu.nvjgwrqgj.,
bqcnyjnlqwnqpwnhrwyqpwnugqwyjcnhqc.,nug.nbqooqhj.nvjn.qhgnwyjnluc.jge
Rnyu.nwqnhuofnzjtr.jnyrvnwqnfjjknyrvntwju.x,nbqcnyjnhutntwroonunorwwoj
wqk-yjusxenHyjgnhjnmuvjnwqnwyjn.qqc,nRnqkjgj.nrw,nug.noj.nyrvnrgwqnwyj
bcqgwncqqvenRnlrsjnxqpnvxnhqc.nwyuwnuoonwyjnhux,nwyjnbuwyjcnug.nwyj
.uplywjcnhjcjnhuofrglnrgnbcqgwnqbnpte

“‘Rw’tnrgbjcguooxn.ucf,’ntur.nyj,ntwuvkrglnuzqpwe

“‘Hj’oontqqgnyusjnunorlyw,’nRntur.,ntwcrfrglnunvuwmynug.nkpwwrglnrwnwq
unhuanmug.ojnhyrmynRnyu.nzcqplywnhrwynvjen‘Gqh,nJgqmyn.cjzzjc,’nR
mqgwrgpj.,nwpcgrglnwqnyrv,nug.nyqo.rglnwyjnorlywnwqnvxnqhgnbumj,n‘hyqnuv
R?’

“Yjnludj.nuwnvjnhrwynzojucj.,n.cpgfjgnjxjtnbqcnunvqvjgw,nug.nwyjgnR
tuhnunyqccqcntkcrglnpknrgnwyjv,nug.nmqgspotjnyrtnhyqojnbjuwpcjt,nhyrmy
tyqhj.nvjnwyuwnyjnfgjhnvjenYjntwulljcj.nzumfnhrwynunorsr.nbumj,nug.nR
tuhnwyjnkjctkrcuwrqgnzcjufnqpwnpkqgnyrtnzcqh,nhyrojnyrtnwjjwynmyuwwjcj.
rgnyrtnyju.enUwnwyjntrlyw,nRnojugj.nvxnzumfnulurgtwnwyjn.qqcnug.nouplyj.
oqp.nug.noqglenRnyu.nuohuxtnfgqhgnwyuwnsjgljugmjnhqpo.nzjnthjjw,nzpwnR
yu.ngjsjcnyqkj.nbqcnwyjnmqgwjgwvjgwnqbntqponhyrmyngqhnkqttjttj.nvje

“‘Xqpn.ql!’nRntur.;n‘Rnyusjnypgwj.nxqpnbcqvnTuownOufjnMrwxnwqnTwe
Kjwjctzpcl,nug.nxqpnyusjnuohuxtnjtmukj.nvjenGqh,nuwnoutwnxqpcnhug.jcrglt
yusjnmqvjnwqnugnjg.,nbqcnjrwyjcnxqpnqcnRntyuoongjsjcntjjnwq-vqccqh’tntpg
crtje’nYjntycpgfntwroonbpcwyjcnuhuxnutnRntkqfj,nug.nRnmqpo.ntjjnqgnyrt
bumjnwyuwnyjnwyqplywnRnhutnvu.enTqnRnhutnbqcnwyjnwrvjenWyjnkpotjtnrgnvx
wjvkojtnzjuwnorfjntoj.lj-yuvvjct,nug.nRnzjorjsjnRnhqpo.nyusjnyu.nunbrw
qbntqvjntqcwnrbnwyjnzoqq.nyu.ngqwnlptyj.nbcqvnvxngqtjnug.ncjorjsj.nvje

“‘Hyuwn.qnxqpnwyrgfnqbnOpmxnBjccrjcngqh?’nRnmcrj.,noqmfrglnwyjn.qqc,nug.
tyufrglnwyjnfjxnrgnyrtnbumjen‘Kpgrtyvjgwnyutnzjjgntoqhnrgnmqvrgl,nzpwnrw
yutnqsjcwufjgnxqpnuwnoutwe’nRntuhnyrtnmqhuc.norktnwcjvzojnutnRntkqfjenYj
hqpo.nyusjnzjllj.nbqcnyrtnorbj,nzpwnyjnfgjhnhjoonwyuwnrwnhutnptjojtte

“‘Hqpo.nxqpnvpc.jcnvj?’nyjntwuvvjcj.e

“‘Wyjcjnrtngqnvpc.jc,’nRnugthjcj.en‘Hyqnwuoftnqbnvpc.jcrglnunvu.n.ql?
Hyuwnvjcmxnyu.nxqpnpkqgnvxnkqqcn.ucorgl,nhyjgnxqpn.cullj.nyjcnbcqvnyjc
touplywjcj.nbuwyjc,nug.nzqcjnyjcnuhuxnwqnxqpcnummpctj.nug.ntyuvjojtt
yucjve’

“‘RwnhutngqwnRnhyqnfrooj.nyjcnbuwyjc,’nyjnmcrj.e

“‘Zpwnrwnhutnxqpnhyqnzcqfjnyjcnrggqmjgwnyjucw,’nRntycrjfj.,nwycptwrgl
wyjnzqanzjbqcjnyrven‘OjwnwyjnyrlynLq.n p.ljnzjwhjjgnptenMyqqtjnug.
juwenWyjcjnrtn.juwynrgnqgjnug.norbjnrgnwyjnqwyjcenRntyuoonwufjnhyuwnxqp
ojusjenOjwnptntjjnrbnwyjcjnrtn ptwrmjnpkqgnwyjnjucwy,nqcnrbnhjnucjncpoj.
zxnmyugmje’

“Yjnmqhjcj.nuhuxnhrwynhro.nmcrjtnug.nkcuxjctnbqcnvjcmx,nzpwnRn.cjhnvx
fgrbjnug.nyjo.nrwnwqnyrtnwycquwnpgwronyjnyu.nqzjxj.nvjenWyjgnRnthuooqhj.
wyjnqwyjc,nug.nhjntwqq.nbumrglnqgjnugqwyjcnrgntrojgmjnbqcnunvrgpwjnqc
vqcj,nhurwrglnwqntjjnhyrmynhutnwqnorsjnug.nhyrmynhutnwqn.rjenTyuoonR
jsjcnbqcljwnwyjnoqqfnhyrmynmuvjnqsjcnyrtnbumjnhyjgnwyjnbrctwnhucgrgl
kugltnwqo.nyrvnwyuwnwyjnkqrtqgnhutnrgnyrtntxtwjv?nRnouplyj.nutnRntuh
rw,nug.nyjo.nOpmx’tnvuccruljncrglnrgnbcqgwnqbnyrtnjxjtenRwnhutnzpwnbqc
unvqvjgw,nbqcnwyjnumwrqgnqbnwyjnuofuoqr.nrtncukr.enUntkutvnqbnkurg
mqgwqcwj.nyrtnbjuwpcjt;nyjnwycjhnyrtnyug.tnqpwnrgnbcqgwnqbnyrv,
twulljcj.,nug.nwyjg,nhrwynunyquctjnmcx,nbjoonyjusroxnpkqgnwyjnboqqcenR
wpcgj.nyrvnqsjcnhrwynvxnbqqw,nug.nkoumj.nvxnyug.npkqgnyrtnyjucwenWyjcj
hutngqnvqsjvjgwenYjnhutn.ju.!

“Wyjnzoqq.nyu.nzjjgntwcjuvrglnbcqvnvxngqtj,nzpwnRnyu.nwufjgngqngqwrmjnqb
rwenRn.qg’wnfgqhnhyuwnrwnhutnwyuwnkpwnrwnrgwqnvxnyju.nwqnhcrwjnpkqgnwyj
huoonhrwynrwenKjcyuktnrwnhutntqvjnvrtmyrjsqptnr.junqbntjwwrglnwyjnkqormj
pkqgnunhcqglnwcumf,nbqcnRnbjownorlyw-yjucwj.nug.nmyjjcbpoenRncjvjvzjcj.
unLjcvugnzjrglnbqpg.nrgnGjhnXqcfnhrwynCUMYJnhcrwwjgnpknuzqsjnyrv,nug.nrw
hutnuclpj.nuwnwyjnwrvjnrgnwyjngjhtkukjctnwyuwnwyjntjmcjwntqmrjwrjtnvptw
yusjn.qgjnrwenRnlpjttj.nwyuwnhyuwnkpddoj.nwyjnGjhnXqcfjctnhqpo.nkpddoj
wyjnOqg.qgjct,ntqnRn.rkkj.nvxnbrgljcnrgnvxnqhgnzoqq.nug.nkcrgwj.nrwnqg
unmqgsjgrjgwnkoumjnqgnwyjnhuooenWyjgnRnhuofj.n.qhgnwqnvxnmuznug.nbqpg.
wyuwnwyjcjnhutngqzq.xnuzqpw,nug.nwyuwnwyjngrlywnhutntwroonsjcxnhro.enR
yu.n.crsjgntqvjn.rtwugmjnhyjgnRnkpwnvxnyug.nrgwqnwyjnkqmfjwnrgnhyrmy
RnptpuooxnfjkwnOpmx’tncrgl,nug.nbqpg.nwyuwnrwnhutngqwnwyjcjenRnhut
wypg.jctwcpmfnuwnwyrt,nbqcnrwnhutnwyjnqgoxnvjvjgwqnwyuwnRnyu.nqbnyjce
WyrgfrglnwyuwnRnvrlywnyusjn.cqkkj.nrwnhyjgnRntwqqkj.nqsjcn.cjzzjc’t
zq.x,nRn.cqsjnzumf,nug.nojusrglnvxnmuznrgnuntr.jntwcjjw,nRnhjgwnzqo.ox
pknwqnwyjnyqptj--bqcnRnhutncju.xnwqn.ucjnugxwyrglncuwyjcnwyugnoqtj
wyjncrglenHyjgnRnuccrsj.nwyjcj,nRnhuofj.ncrlywnrgwqnwyjnucvtnqbnu
kqormj-qbbrmjcnhyqnhutnmqvrglnqpw,nug.nqgoxnvugulj.nwqn.rtucvnyrt
tptkrmrqgtnzxnkcjwjg.rglnwqnzjnyqkjojttoxn.cpgfe

“WyuwnhutnyqhnJgqmyn.cjzzjcnmuvjnwqnyrtnjg.enUoonRnyu.nwqn.qnwyjgnhut
wqn.qnutnvpmynbqcnTwugljctqg,nug.ntqnkuxnqbbn qygnBjccrjc’tn.jzwenRnfgjh
wyuwnyjnhutntwuxrglnuwnYuoor.ux’tnKcrsuwjnYqwjo,nug.nRnypglnuzqpwnuoo
.ux,nzpwnyjngjsjcnmuvjnqpwen[26]nbugmxnwyuwnyjntptkjmwj.ntqvjwyrglnhyjg
.cjzzjcnburoj.nwqnkpwnrgnugnukkjucugmjenYjnhutnmpggrgl,nhutnTwugljctqg,
ug.nuohuxtnqgnyrtnlpuc.enRbnyjnwyqplywnyjnmqpo.nfjjknvjnqbbnzxntwuxrgl
rg.qqctnyjnhutnsjcxnvpmynvrtwufjgenRntqqgnbqpg.nqpwnhyrmynhutnwyjnhrg.qh
qbnyrtnzj.cqqv,nug.njucoxngjawnvqcgrglnRnwqqfnu.sugwuljnqbntqvjnou..jct
hyrmynhjcjnoxrglnrgnwyjnougjnzjyrg.nwyjnyqwjo,nug.ntqnvu.jnvxnhuxnrgwq
yrtncqqvnrgnwyjnlcjxnqbnwyjn.uhgenRnhqfjnyrvnpknug.nwqo.nyrvnwyuwnwyj
yqpcnyu.nmqvjnhyjgnyjnhutnwqnugthjcnbqcnwyjnorbjnyjnyu.nwufjgntqnoqgl
zjbqcjenRn.jtmcrzj.n.cjzzjc’tn.juwynwqnyrv,nug.nRnlusjnyrvnwyjntuvj
myqrmjnqbnwyjnkqrtqgj.nkrootenRgtwju.nqbnlcutkrglnuwnwyjnmyugmjnqb
tubjwxnhyrmynwyuwnqbbjcj.nyrv,nyjntkcuglnbcqvnyrtnzj.nug.nbojhnuwnvx
wycquwenRgntjob-.jbjgmjnRntwuzzj.nyrvnwqnwyjnyjucwenRwnhqpo.nyusjnzjjg
wyjntuvjnrgnugxnmutj,nbqcnKcqsr.jgmjnhqpo.ngjsjcnyusjnuooqhj.nyrtnlprowx
yug.nwqnkrmfnqpwnugxwyrglnzpwnwyjnkqrtqge

“Rnyusjnorwwojnvqcjnwqntux,nug.nrw’tnutnhjoo,nbqcnRnuvnuzqpwn.qgjnpke
Rnhjgwnqgnmuzzrglnrwnbqcnun.uxnqcntq,nrgwjg.rglnwqnfjjknuwnrwnpgwronR
mqpo.ntusjnjgqplynwqnwufjnvjnzumfnwqnUvjcrmuenRnhutntwug.rglnrgnwyj
xuc.nhyjgnuncullj.nxqpgltwjcnutfj.nrbnwyjcjnhutnunmuzzxnwyjcjnmuooj.
 jbbjctqgnYqkj,nug.ntur.nwyuwnyrtnmuznhutnhugwj.nzxnunljgwojvugnuwn221Z,
ZufjcnTwcjjwenRnhjgwncqpg.,ntptkjmwrglngqnyucv,nug.nwyjngjawnwyrglnR
fgjh,nwyrtnxqpglnvugnyjcjnyu.nwyjnzcumjojwtnqgnvxnhcrtwt,nug.nutngjuwox
tgumfoj.n[27]nutnjsjcnRntuhnrgnvxnorbjenWyuw’tnwyjnhyqojnqbnvxntwqcx,
ljgwojvjgenXqpnvuxnmqgtr.jcnvjnwqnzjnunvpc.jcjc;nzpwnRnyqo.nwyuwnRnuv
 ptwnutnvpmynugnqbbrmjcnqbn ptwrmjnutnxqpnucje”

Tqnwycroorglnyu.nwyjnvug’tnguccuwrsjnzjjg,nug.nyrtnvuggjcnhutntq
rvkcjttrsjnwyuwnhjnyu.ntuwntrojgwnug.nuztqczj.enJsjgnwyjnkcqbjttrqguo
.jwjmwrsjt,n_zouté_nutnwyjxnhjcjnrgnjsjcxn.jwuronqbnmcrvj,nukkjucj.nwq
zjnfjjgoxnrgwjcjtwj.nrgnwyjnvug’tntwqcxenHyjgnyjnbrgrtyj.nhjntuwnbqc
tqvjnvrgpwjtnrgnuntwroogjttnhyrmynhutnqgoxnzcqfjgnzxnwyjntmcuwmyrgl
qbnOjtwcu.j’tnkjgmronutnyjnlusjnwyjnbrgrtyrglnwqpmyjtnwqnyrtntyqcwyug.
ummqpgwe

“WyjcjnrtnqgoxnqgjnkqrgwnqgnhyrmynRntyqpo.norfjnunorwwojnvqcj
rgbqcvuwrqg,”nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtntur.nuwnoutwen“Hyqnhutnxqpcnummqvkormjnhyq
muvjnbqcnwyjncrglnhyrmynRnu.sjcwrtj.?”

Wyjnkcrtqgjcnhrgfj.nuwnvxnbcrjg.n qmqtjoxen“Rnmugnwjoonvxnqhgntjmcjwt,”
nyjntur.,n“zpwnRn.qg’wnljwnqwyjcnkjqkojnrgwqnwcqpzojenRntuhnxqpc
u.sjcwrtjvjgw,nug.nRnwyqplywnrwnvrlywnzjnunkougw,nqcnrwnvrlywnzjnwyj
crglnhyrmynRnhugwj.enVxnbcrjg.nsqopgwjjcj.nwqnlqnug.ntjjenRnwyrgfnxqp’oo
qhgnyjn.r.nrwntvucwoxe”

“Gqwnun.qpzwnqbnwyuw,”ntur.nYqovjtnyjucwroxe

“Gqh,nljgwojvjg,”nwyjnRgtkjmwqcncjvucfj.nlcusjox,n“wyjnbqcvtnqbnwyjnouh
vptwnzjnmqvkorj.nhrwyenQgnWypct.uxnwyjnkcrtqgjcnhroonzjnzcqplywnzjbqcj
wyjnvulrtwcuwjt,nug.nxqpcnuwwjg.ugmjnhroonzjncjiprcj.enPgwronwyjgnRnhroo
zjncjtkqgtrzojnbqcnyrve”nYjncuglnwyjnzjoonutnyjntkqfj,nug.n jbbjctqg
Yqkjnhutnoj.nqbbnzxnunmqpkojnqbnhuc.jct,nhyrojnvxnbcrjg.nug.nRnvu.jnqpc
huxnqpwnqbnwyjnTwuwrqgnug.nwqqfnunmuznzumfnwqnZufjcnTwcjjwe




MYUKWJCnSRRenWYJnMQGMOPTRQGe


HJnyu.nuoonzjjgnhucgj.nwqnukkjucnzjbqcjnwyjnvulrtwcuwjtnpkqgnwyj
Wypct.ux;nzpwnhyjgnwyjnWypct.uxnmuvjnwyjcjnhutngqnqmmutrqgnbqcnqpc
wjtwrvqgxenUnyrlyjcn p.ljnyu.nwufjgnwyjnvuwwjcnrgnyug.,nug.n jbbjctqg
Yqkjnyu.nzjjgntpvvqgj.nzjbqcjnunwcrzpguonhyjcjntwcrmwn ptwrmjnhqpo.
zjnvjwj.nqpwnwqnyrvenQgnwyjnsjcxngrlywnubwjcnyrtnmukwpcjnwyjnugjpcrtv
zpctw,nug.nyjnhutnbqpg.nrgnwyjnvqcgrglntwcjwmyj.npkqgnwyjnboqqcnqbnwyj
mjoo,nhrwynunkoumr.ntvrojnpkqgnyrtnbumj,nutnwyqplynyjnyu.nzjjgnuzoj
rgnyrtn.xrglnvqvjgwtnwqnoqqfnzumfnpkqgnunptjbponorbj,nug.nqgnhqcfnhjoo
.qgje

“Lcjltqgnug.nOjtwcu.jnhroonzjnhro.nuzqpwnyrtn.juwy,”nYqovjtncjvucfj.,nut
hjnmyuwwj.nrwnqsjcngjawnjsjgrglen“Hyjcjnhroonwyjrcnlcug.nu.sjcwrtjvjgw
zjngqh?”

“Rn.qg’wntjjnwyuwnwyjxnyu.nsjcxnvpmynwqn.qnhrwynyrtnmukwpcj,”nR
ugthjcj.e

“Hyuwnxqpn.qnrgnwyrtnhqco.nrtnunvuwwjcnqbngqnmqgtjipjgmj,”ncjwpcgj.nvx
mqvkugrqg,nzrwwjcoxen“Wyjnipjtwrqgnrt,nhyuwnmugnxqpnvufjnkjqkojnzjorjsj
wyuwnxqpnyusjn.qgjenGjsjcnvrg.,”nyjnmqgwrgpj.,nvqcjnzcrlywox,nubwjcnu
kuptjen“Rnhqpo.ngqwnyusjnvrttj.nwyjnrgsjtwrluwrqgnbqcnugxwyrglenWyjcj
yutnzjjgngqnzjwwjcnmutjnhrwyrgnvxncjmqoojmwrqgenTrvkojnutnrwnhut,nwyjcj
hjcjntjsjcuonvqtwnrgtwcpmwrsjnkqrgwtnuzqpwnrwe”

“Trvkoj!”nRnj umpouwj.e

“Hjoo,ncjuoox,nrwnmugnyuc.oxnzjn.jtmcrzj.nutnqwyjchrtj,”ntur.nTyjcoqmf
Yqovjt,ntvrorglnuwnvxntpckcrtjen“Wyjnkcqqbnqbnrwtnrgwcrgtrmntrvkormrwx
rt,nwyuwnhrwyqpwnugxnyjokntusjnunbjhnsjcxnqc.rgucxn.j.pmwrqgtnRnhutnuzoj
wqnouxnvxnyug.npkqgnwyjnmcrvrguonhrwyrgnwycjjn.uxte”

“Wyuwnrtnwcpj,”ntur.nRe

“Rnyusjnuocju.xnjakourgj.nwqnxqpnwyuwnhyuwnrtnqpwnqbnwyjnmqvvqgnrt
ptpuooxnunlpr.jncuwyjcnwyugnunyrg.cugmjenRgntqosrglnunkcqzojvnqbnwyrt
tqcw,nwyjnlcug.nwyrglnrtnwqnzjnuzojnwqncjutqgnzumfhuc.tenWyuwnrtnunsjcx
ptjbponummqvkortyvjgw,nug.nunsjcxnjutxnqgj,nzpwnkjqkojn.qngqwnkcumwrtj
rwnvpmyenRgnwyjnjsjcx-.uxnubburctnqbnorbjnrwnrtnvqcjnptjbponwqncjutqg
bqchuc.t,nug.ntqnwyjnqwyjcnmqvjtnwqnzjngjlojmwj.enWyjcjnucjnbrbwxnhyq
mugncjutqgntxgwyjwrmuooxnbqcnqgjnhyqnmugncjutqgnuguoxwrmuooxe”

“Rnmqgbjtt,”ntur.nR,n“wyuwnRn.qngqwniprwjnbqooqhnxqpe”

“Rnyuc.oxnjakjmwj.nwyuwnxqpnhqpo.enOjwnvjntjjnrbnRnmugnvufjnrwnmojucjce
Vqtwnkjqkoj,nrbnxqpn.jtmcrzjnunwcurgnqbnjsjgwtnwqnwyjv,nhroonwjoonxqp
hyuwnwyjncjtpownhqpo.nzjenWyjxnmugnkpwnwyqtjnjsjgwtnwqljwyjcnrgnwyjrc
vrg.t,nug.nuclpjnbcqvnwyjvnwyuwntqvjwyrglnhroonmqvjnwqnkuttenWyjcjnucj
bjhnkjqkoj,nyqhjsjc,nhyq,nrbnxqpnwqo.nwyjvnuncjtpow,nhqpo.nzjnuzojnwq
jsqosjnbcqvnwyjrcnqhgnrggjcnmqgtmrqptgjttnhyuwnwyjntwjktnhjcjnhyrmynoj.
pknwqnwyuwncjtpowenWyrtnkqhjcnrtnhyuwnRnvjugnhyjgnRnwuofnqbncjutqgrgl
zumfhuc.t,nqcnuguoxwrmuooxe”

“Rnpg.jctwug.,”ntur.nRe

“Gqhnwyrtnhutnunmutjnrgnhyrmynxqpnhjcjnlrsjgnwyjncjtpownug.nyu.nwq
brg.njsjcxwyrglnjotjnbqcnxqpctjobenGqhnojwnvjnjg.jusqpcnwqntyqhnxqpnwyj
.rbbjcjgwntwjktnrgnvxncjutqgrglenWqnzjlrgnuwnwyjnzjlrggrglenRnukkcqumyj.
wyjnyqptj,nutnxqpnfgqh,nqgnbqqw,nug.nhrwynvxnvrg.njgwrcjoxnbcjjnbcqvnuoo
rvkcjttrqgtenRnguwpcuooxnzjlugnzxnjauvrgrglnwyjncqu.hux,nug.nwyjcj,nutnR
yusjnuocju.xnjakourgj.nwqnxqp,nRntuhnmojucoxnwyjnvucftnqbnunmuz,nhyrmy,
Rnutmjcwurgj.nzxnrgiprcx,nvptwnyusjnzjjgnwyjcjn.pcrglnwyjngrlywenR
tuwrtbrj.nvxtjobnwyuwnrwnhutnunmuznug.ngqwnunkcrsuwjnmuccruljnzxnwyj
guccqhnlupljnqbnwyjnhyjjotenWyjnqc.rgucxnOqg.qgnlcqhojcnrtnmqgtr.jcuzox
ojttnhr.jnwyugnunljgwojvug’tnzcqplyuve

“Wyrtnhutnwyjnbrctwnkqrgwnlurgj.enRnwyjgnhuofj.ntoqhoxn.qhgnwyjnluc.jg
kuwy,nhyrmynyukkjgj.nwqnzjnmqvkqtj.nqbnunmouxntqro,nkjmporucoxntprwuzoj
bqcnwufrglnrvkcjttrqgtenGqn.qpzwnrwnukkjucj.nwqnxqpnwqnzjnunvjcj
wcuvkoj.norgjnqbntopty,nzpwnwqnvxnwcurgj.njxjtnjsjcxnvucfnpkqgnrwt
tpcbumjnyu.nunvjugrglenWyjcjnrtngqnzcugmynqbn.jwjmwrsjntmrjgmjnhyrmy
rtntqnrvkqcwugwnug.ntqnvpmyngjlojmwj.nutnwyjnucwnqbnwcumrglnbqqwtwjkte
Yukkrox,nRnyusjnuohuxtnour.nlcjuwntwcjttnpkqgnrw,nug.nvpmynkcumwrmj
yutnvu.jnrwntjmqg.nguwpcjnwqnvjenRntuhnwyjnyjusxnbqqwvucftnqbnwyj
mqgtwuzojt,nzpwnRntuhnuotqnwyjnwcumfnqbnwyjnwhqnvjgnhyqnyu.nbrctwnkuttj.
wycqplynwyjnluc.jgenRwnhutnjutxnwqnwjoonwyuwnwyjxnyu.nzjjgnzjbqcjnwyj
qwyjct,nzjmuptjnrgnkoumjtnwyjrcnvucftnyu.nzjjgnjgwrcjoxnqzorwjcuwj.nzx
wyjnqwyjctnmqvrglnpkqgnwyjnwqknqbnwyjvenRgnwyrtnhuxnvxntjmqg.norgfnhut
bqcvj.,nhyrmynwqo.nvjnwyuwnwyjngqmwpcguonsrtrwqctnhjcjnwhqnrgngpvzjc,
qgjncjvucfuzojnbqcnyrtnyjrlywn(utnRnmuompouwj.nbcqvnwyjnojglwynqbnyrt
twcr.j),nug.nwyjnqwyjcnbutyrqguzoxn.cjttj.,nwqn p.ljnbcqvnwyjntvuoonug.
jojlugwnrvkcjttrqgnojbwnzxnyrtnzqqwte

“Qgnjgwjcrglnwyjnyqptjnwyrtnoutwnrgbjcjgmjnhutnmqgbrcvj.enVxnhjoo-zqqwj.
vugnouxnzjbqcjnvjenWyjnwuoonqgj,nwyjg,nyu.n.qgjnwyjnvpc.jc,nrbnvpc.jc
wyjcjnhutenWyjcjnhutngqnhqpg.npkqgnwyjn.ju.nvug’tnkjctqg,nzpwnwyj
ulrwuwj.njakcjttrqgnpkqgnyrtnbumjnuttpcj.nvjnwyuwnyjnyu.nbqcjtjjgnyrt
buwjnzjbqcjnrwnmuvjnpkqgnyrvenVjgnhyqn.rjnbcqvnyjucwn.rtjutj,nqcnugx
tp..jgnguwpcuonmuptj,ngjsjcnzxnugxnmyugmjnjayrzrwnulrwuwrqgnpkqgnwyjrc
bjuwpcjtenYusrglntgrbbj.nwyjn.ju.nvug’tnorktnRn.jwjmwj.nuntorlywoxntqpc
tvjoo,nug.nRnmuvjnwqnwyjnmqgmoptrqgnwyuwnyjnyu.nyu.nkqrtqgnbqcmj.npkqg
yrvenUlurg,nRnuclpj.nwyuwnrwnyu.nzjjgnbqcmj.npkqgnyrvnbcqvnwyjnyuwcj.
ug.nbjucnjakcjttj.npkqgnyrtnbumjenZxnwyjnvjwyq.nqbnjamoptrqg,nRnyu.
uccrsj.nuwnwyrtncjtpow,nbqcngqnqwyjcnyxkqwyjtrtnhqpo.nvjjwnwyjnbumwte
.qngqwnrvulrgjnwyuwnrwnhutnunsjcxnpgyjuc.nqbnr.juenWyjnbqcmrzoj
u.vrgrtwcuwrqgnqbnkqrtqgnrtnzxngqnvjugtnungjhnwyrglnrgnmcrvrguonugguote
Wyjnmutjtnqbn.qotfxnrgnQ.jttu,nug.nqbnOjwpcrjcnrgnVqgwkjoorjc,nhroo
qmmpcnuwnqgmjnwqnugxnwqarmqoqlrtwe

“Ug.ngqhnmuvjnwyjnlcjuwnipjtwrqgnutnwqnwyjncjutqgnhyxenCqzzjcxnyu.ngqw
zjjgnwyjnqz jmwnqbnwyjnvpc.jc,nbqcngqwyrglnhutnwufjgenHutnrwnkqorwrmt,
wyjg,nqcnhutnrwnunhqvug?nWyuwnhutnwyjnipjtwrqgnhyrmynmqgbcqgwj.nvje
Rnhutnrgmorgj.nbcqvnwyjnbrctwnwqnwyjnouwwjcntpkkqtrwrqgenKqorwrmuo
uttuttrgtnucjnqgoxnwqqnlou.nwqn.qnwyjrcnhqcfnug.nwqnboxenWyrtnvpc.jc
yu.,nqgnwyjnmqgwcucx,nzjjgn.qgjnvqtwn.jorzjcuwjox,nug.nwyjnkjckjwcuwqc
yu.nojbwnyrtnwcumftnuoonqsjcnwyjncqqv,ntyqhrglnwyuwnyjnyu.nzjjgnwyjcj
uoonwyjnwrvjenRwnvptwnyusjnzjjgnunkcrsuwjnhcqgl,nug.ngqwnunkqorwrmuo
qgj,nhyrmynmuooj.nbqcntpmynunvjwyq.rmuoncjsjgljenHyjgnwyjnrgtmcrkwrqg
hutn.rtmqsjcj.npkqgnwyjnhuoonRnhutnvqcjnrgmorgj.nwyugnjsjcnwqnvx
qkrgrqgenWyjnwyrglnhutnwqqnjsr.jgwoxnunzorg.enHyjgnwyjncrglnhutnbqpg.,
yqhjsjc,nrwntjwwoj.nwyjnipjtwrqgenMojucoxnwyjnvpc.jcjcnyu.nptj.nrwnwq
cjvrg.nyrtnsrmwrvnqbntqvjn.ju.nqcnuztjgwnhqvugenRwnhutnuwnwyrtnkqrgw
wyuwnRnutfj.nLcjltqgnhyjwyjcnyjnyu.njgiprcj.nrgnyrtnwjojlcuvnwq
Mojsjoug.nutnwqnugxnkucwrmpoucnkqrgwnrgnVcen.cjzzjc’tnbqcvjcnmucjjcenYj
ugthjcj.,nxqpncjvjvzjc,nrgnwyjngjluwrsje

“Rnwyjgnkcqmjj.j.nwqnvufjnunmucjbponjauvrguwrqgnqbnwyjncqqv,nhyrmy
mqgbrcvj.nvjnrgnvxnqkrgrqgnutnwqnwyjnvpc.jcjc’tnyjrlyw,nug.nbpcgrtyj.nvj
hrwynwyjnu..rwrqguon.jwurotnutnwqnwyjnWcrmyrgqkqoxnmrlucnug.nwyjnojglwy
qbnyrtngurotenRnyu.nuocju.xnmqvjnwqnwyjnmqgmoptrqg,ntrgmjnwyjcjnhjcjngq
trlgtnqbnuntwcplloj,nwyuwnwyjnzoqq.nhyrmynmqsjcj.nwyjnboqqcnyu.nzpctw
bcqvnwyjnvpc.jcjc’tngqtjnrgnyrtnjamrwjvjgwenRnmqpo.nkjcmjrsjnwyuwnwyj
wcumfnqbnzoqq.nmqrgmr.j.nhrwynwyjnwcumfnqbnyrtnbjjwenRwnrtntjo.qvnwyuw
ugxnvug,npgojttnyjnrtnsjcxnbpoo-zoqq.j.,nzcjuftnqpwnrgnwyrtnhuxnwycqply
jvqwrqg,ntqnRnyuduc.j.nwyjnqkrgrqgnwyuwnwyjnmcrvrguonhutnkcqzuzoxnu
cqzptwnug.ncp..x-bumj.nvugenJsjgwtnkcqsj.nwyuwnRnyu.n p.lj.nmqccjmwoxe

“Yusrglnojbwnwyjnyqptj,nRnkcqmjj.j.nwqn.qnhyuwnLcjltqgnyu.ngjlojmwj.enR
wjojlcukyj.nwqnwyjnyju.nqbnwyjnkqormjnuwnMojsjoug.,norvrwrglnvxnjgiprcx
wqnwyjnmrcmpvtwugmjtnmqggjmwj.nhrwynwyjnvuccruljnqbnJgqmyn.cjzzjcenWyj
ugthjcnhutnmqgmoptrsjenRwnwqo.nvjnwyuwn.cjzzjcnyu.nuocju.xnukkorj.nbqc
wyjnkcqwjmwrqgnqbnwyjnouhnulurgtwnugnqo.ncrsuonrgnoqsj,nguvj.n jbbjctqg
Yqkj,nug.nwyuwnwyrtntuvjnYqkjnhutnuwnkcjtjgwnrgnJpcqkjenRnfgjhngqhnwyuw
Rnyjo.nwyjnmopjnwqnwyjnvxtwjcxnrgnvxnyug.,nug.nuoonwyuwncjvurgj.nhutnwq
tjmpcjnwyjnvpc.jcjce

“Rnyu.nuocju.xn.jwjcvrgj.nrgnvxnqhgnvrg.nwyuwnwyjnvugnhyqnyu.nhuofj.
rgwqnwyjnyqptjnhrwyn.cjzzjc,nhutngqgjnqwyjcnwyugnwyjnvugnhyqnyu.n.crsjg
wyjnmuzenWyjnvucftnrgnwyjncqu.ntyqhj.nvjnwyuwnwyjnyqctjnyu.nhug.jcj.
qgnrgnunhuxnhyrmynhqpo.nyusjnzjjgnrvkqttrzojnyu.nwyjcjnzjjgnugxqgjnrg
myucljnqbnrwenHyjcj,nwyjg,nmqpo.nwyjn.crsjcnzj,npgojttnyjnhjcjnrgtr.j
wyjnyqptj?nUlurg,nrwnrtnuztpc.nwqntpkkqtjnwyuwnugxntugjnvugnhqpo.nmuccx
qpwnun.jorzjcuwjnmcrvjnpg.jcnwyjnsjcxnjxjt,nutnrwnhjcj,nqbnunwyrc.
kjctqg,nhyqnhutntpcjnwqnzjwcuxnyrvenOutwox,ntpkkqtrglnqgjnvugnhrtyj.
wqn.qlnugqwyjcnwycqplynOqg.qg,nhyuwnzjwwjcnvjugtnmqpo.nyjnu.qkwnwyug
wqnwpcgnmuz.crsjcenUoonwyjtjnmqgtr.jcuwrqgtnoj.nvjnwqnwyjnrccjtrtwrzoj
mqgmoptrqgnwyuwn jbbjctqgnYqkjnhutnwqnzjnbqpg.nuvqglnwyjn ucsjxtnqbnwyj
Vjwcqkqorte

“Rbnyjnyu.nzjjgnqgjnwyjcjnhutngqncjutqgnwqnzjorjsjnwyuwnyjnyu.nmjutj.nwq
zjenQgnwyjnmqgwcucx,nbcqvnyrtnkqrgwnqbnsrjh,nugxntp..jgnmyugljnhqpo.nzj
orfjoxnwqn.cuhnuwwjgwrqgnwqnyrvtjobenYjnhqpo.,nkcqzuzox,nbqcnunwrvjnuw
ojutw,nmqgwrgpjnwqnkjcbqcvnyrtn.pwrjtenWyjcjnhutngqncjutqgnwqntpkkqtj
wyuwnyjnhutnlqrglnpg.jcnugnuttpvj.nguvjenHyxntyqpo.nyjnmyugljnyrtnguvj
rgnunmqpgwcxnhyjcjngqnqgjnfgjhnyrtnqcrlrguonqgj?nRnwyjcjbqcjnqclugrdj.
vxnTwcjjwnUcuzn.jwjmwrsjnmqckt,nug.ntjgwnwyjvntxtwjvuwrmuooxnwqnjsjcx
muznkcqkcrjwqcnrgnOqg.qgnpgwronwyjxnbjccjwj.nqpwnwyjnvugnwyuwnRnhugwj.e
Yqhnhjoonwyjxntpmmjj.j.,nug.nyqhniprmfoxnRnwqqfnu.sugwuljnqbnrw,nucj
twroonbcjtynrgnxqpcncjmqoojmwrqgenWyjnvpc.jcnqbnTwugljctqgnhutnug
rgmr.jgwnhyrmynhutnjgwrcjoxnpgjakjmwj.,nzpwnhyrmynmqpo.nyuc.oxnrg
ugxnmutjnyusjnzjjgnkcjsjgwj.enWycqplynrw,nutnxqpnfgqh,nRnmuvjnrgwq
kqttjttrqgnqbnwyjnkroot,nwyjnjartwjgmjnqbnhyrmynRnyu.nuocju.xntpcvrtj.e
Xqpntjjnwyjnhyqojnwyrglnrtnunmyurgnqbnoqlrmuontjipjgmjtnhrwyqpwnunzcjuf
qcnbouhe”

“Rwnrtnhqg.jcbpo!”nRnmcrj.en“Xqpcnvjcrwtntyqpo.nzjnkpzormoxncjmqlgrdj.e
Xqpntyqpo.nkpzortynugnummqpgwnqbnwyjnmutjenRbnxqpnhqg’w,nRnhroonbqc
xqpe”

“Xqpnvuxn.qnhyuwnxqpnorfj,n.qmwqc,”nyjnugthjcj.en“Tjjnyjcj!”nyj
mqgwrgpj.,nyug.rglnunkukjcnqsjcnwqnvj,n“oqqfnuwnwyrt!”

Rwnhutnwyjn_Jmyq_nbqcnwyjn.ux,nug.nwyjnkuculcukynwqnhyrmynyjnkqrgwj.nhut
.jsqwj.nwqnwyjnmutjnrgnipjtwrqge

“Wyjnkpzorm,”nrwntur.,n“yusjnoqtwnuntjgtuwrqguonwcjuwnwycqplynwyjntp..jg
.juwynqbnwyjnvugnYqkj,nhyqnhutntptkjmwj.nqbnwyjnvpc.jcnqbnVcenJgqmy
.cjzzjcnug.nqbnVcen qtjkynTwugljctqgenWyjn.jwurotnqbnwyjnmutjnhroo
kcqzuzoxnzjngjsjcnfgqhgngqh,nwyqplynhjnucjnrgbqcvj.npkqgnlqq.nupwyqcrwx
wyuwnwyjnmcrvjnhutnwyjncjtpownqbnugnqo.ntwug.rglnug.ncqvugwrmnbjp.,nrg
hyrmynoqsjnug.nVqcvqgrtvnzqcjnunkucwenRwntjjvtnwyuwnzqwynwyjnsrmwrvt
zjoqglj.,nrgnwyjrcnxqpgljcn.uxt,nwqnwyjnOuwwjcn.uxnTurgwt,nug.nYqkj,nwyj
.jmjutj.nkcrtqgjc,nyurotnuotqnbcqvnTuownOufjnMrwxenRbnwyjnmutjnyutnyu.
gqnqwyjcnjbbjmw,nrw,nuwnojutw,nzcrgltnqpwnrgnwyjnvqtwntwcrfrglnvuggjc
wyjnjbbrmrjgmxnqbnqpcn.jwjmwrsjnkqormjnbqcmj,nug.nhroontjcsjnutnunojttqg
wqnuoonbqcjrlgjctnwyuwnwyjxnhroon.qnhrtjoxnwqntjwwojnwyjrcnbjp.tnuw
yqvj,nug.ngqwnwqnmuccxnwyjvnqgnwqnZcrwrtyntqroenRwnrtnugnqkjgntjmcjw
wyuwnwyjnmcj.rwnqbnwyrtntvucwnmukwpcjnzjoqgltnjgwrcjoxnwqnwyjnhjoo-fgqhg
Tmqwoug.nXuc.nqbbrmruot,nVjttctenOjtwcu.jnug.nLcjltqgenWyjnvugnhut
ukkcjyjg.j.,nrwnukkjuct,nrgnwyjncqqvtnqbnunmjcwurgnVcenTyjcoqmfnYqovjt,
hyqnyutnyrvtjob,nutnugnuvuwjpc,ntyqhgntqvjnwuojgwnrgnwyjn.jwjmwrsj
orgj,nug.nhyq,nhrwyntpmynrgtwcpmwqct,nvuxnyqkjnrgnwrvjnwqnuwwurgnwqntqvj
.jlcjjnqbnwyjrcntfrooenRwnrtnjakjmwj.nwyuwnunwjtwrvqgruonqbntqvjntqcw
hroonzjnkcjtjgwj.nwqnwyjnwhqnqbbrmjctnutnunbrwwrglncjmqlgrwrqgnqbnwyjrc
tjcsrmjte”

“.r.g’wnRnwjoonxqpntqnhyjgnhjntwucwj.?”nmcrj.nTyjcoqmfnYqovjtnhrwynu
ouplyen“Wyuw’tnwyjncjtpownqbnuoonqpcnTwp.xnrgnTmucojw:nwqnljwnwyjvnu
wjtwrvqgruo!”

“Gjsjcnvrg.,”nRnugthjcj.,n“Rnyusjnuoonwyjnbumwtnrgnvxn qpcguo,nug.nwyj
kpzormntyuoonfgqhnwyjvenRgnwyjnvjugwrvjnxqpnvptwnvufjnxqpctjobnmqgwjgwj.
zxnwyjnmqgtmrqptgjttnqbntpmmjtt,norfjnwyjnCqvugnvrtjc--

nnnnnnnnnnnn“‘Kqkpoptnvjntrzrouw,nuwnvryrnkoup.q
nnnnnnnRktjn.qvrntrvponumngpvvqtnmqgwjvkoqcnrgnucmue’”





QCRLRGUOnWCUGTMCRZJC’TnGQWJT:


[Bqqwgqwjn1:nBcqgwrtkrjmj,nhrwynwyjnmukwrqg:n“Yjnjauvrgj.nhrwynyrtnloutt
wyjnhqc.npkqgnwyjnhuoo,nlqrglnqsjcnjsjcxnojwwjcnqbnrwnhrwynwyjnvqtw
vrgpwjnjaumwgjtte”n(_Kulj_n23e)]

[Bqqwgqwjn2:n“ QYGnYenHUWTQG,nVe.e”:nwyjnrgrwruonojwwjctnrgnwyjnguvjnucj
mukrwuordj.,nwyjnqwyjcnojwwjctnrgntvuoonmuktenUoonmyukwjcnwrwojtnucjnrg
tvuoonmuktenWyjnrgrwruonhqc.tnqbnmyukwjctnucjnrgntvuoonmuktnhrwynbrctw
ojwwjcnmukrwuordj.e]

[Bqqwgqwjn3:n“oq.lrglte”:nwyjnkjcrq.ntyqpo.nzjnunmqvvu,nutnrgnouwjc
j.rwrqgte]

[Bqqwgqwjn4:n“yqjvqloqzrg”:ntyqpo.nzjnyujvqloqzrgenWyjnq&jnucj
mqgmuwjguwj.e]

[Bqqwgqwjn5:n“221Z”:nwyjnZnrtnrgntvuoonmukt]

[Bqqwgqwjn6:n“WYJnOUPCRTWQGnLUC.JGnVXTWJCX”:nwyjnwuzoj-qb-mqgwjgwt
ortwtnwyrtnmyukwjcnutn“eeeLUC.JGTnVXTWJCX”--kopcuo,nug.nkcqzuzoxnvqcj
mqccjmwe]

[Bqqwgqwjn7:n“zcqplywe"”:nwyjnwjawnyutnugnjawcun.qpzoj-ipqwjnvucf]

[Bqqwgqwjn8:n“rg.rsr.puo--“:nrooptwcuwrqgnwyrtnkulj,nhrwynwyj
mukwrqg:n“Utnyjntkqfj,nyrtngrvzojnbrgljctnhjcjnboxrglnyjcj,nwyjcj,nug.
jsjcxhyjcje”]

[Bqqwgqwjn9:n“vugqjpscjt”:nwyjnq&jnucjnmqgmuwjguwj.e]

[Bqqwgqwjn10:n“Kuwjgwnojuwyjct”:nwyjnyxkyjgnrtnvrttrgle]

[Bqqwgqwjn11:n“mqg.qgvjgw”:ntyqpo.nzjnmqg.qgjvjgwe]

[Bqqwgqwjn13:n“huljte”:njg.rglnipqwjnrtnvrttrgle]

[Bqqwgqwjn14:n“wyjnbrctwe”:njg.rglnipqwjnrtnvrttrgle]

[Bqqwgqwjn15:n“vufjnvpmynqbeee”:nQwyjcnj.rwrqgtnmqvkojwjnwyrtntjgwjgmj
hrwynugn“rwe”nZpwnwyjcjnrtnunluknrgnwyjnwjawnuwnwyrtnkqrgw,nug.,nlrsjg
wyjnmqgwjaw,nrwnvuxnyusjnumwpuooxnzjjgnugnrgwjc jmwrqg,nun.utyenWyjnluk
rtn ptwnwyjncrlywntrdjnbqcnwyjnmyucumwjctn“rwe”nug.nwyjntwucwnqbnungjh
tjgwjgmj,nqcnbqcnun“----“]

[Bqqwgqwjn16:n“wyqnmptyrqg”:n“wyq”ntyqpo.nzjn“wyj”]

[Bqqwgqwjn19:n“tyqsrgl”:nouwjcnj.rwrqgtnyusjn“tyqhrgl”enWyjnqcrlrguonrt
mojucoxntpkjcrqce]

[Bqqwgqwjn20:n“twucj.nuzqpweee”:nrooptwcuwrqg,nhrwynwyjnmukwrqg:n“Qgjnqb
wyjvntjrdj.nwyjnorwwojnlrco,nug.nyqrtwj.nyjcnpkqgnyrtntyqpo.jce”]

[Bqqwgqwjn21:n“pkqgnwyj”:nrooptwcuwrqg,nhrwynwyjnmukwrqg:n“Utnyjnhuwmyj.
rwnyjntuhnrwnhcrwyjnuoqglnwyjnlcqpg.e”]

[Bqqwgqwjn22:n“BQCVJCOXeee”:nB,T,O,Mnrgnmukt,nqwyjcnojwwjctnrgnwyrtnorgj
rgntvuoonmukte]

[Bqqwgqwjn23:n“ugmojt”:nugfojte]

[Bqqwgqwjn24:n“utfj.,”:ntyqpo.nzjn“utfj.e”]

[Bqqwgqwjn25:n“kqrtrqgt”:ntyqpo.nzjn“kqrtqgt”]

[Bqqwgqwjn26:n“eeebugmx”:ntyqpo.nzjn“Rnbugmx”enWyjcjnrtnunluknrgnwyj
wjawe]

[Bqqwgqwjn27:n“tgumfoj.”:n“tyumfoj.”nrgnouwjcnwjawte]

[Bqqwgqwjn29:nYjzjcnMenFjvzuoo,nrgnqgjnqbnyrtntjcvqgt,nuoop.jtnwqnyrt
ypg.cj.nhrsjtnpg.jcnwyrtnjg.jucrglnjkrwyjwe]





Jg.nqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl’tnUnTwp.xnRgnTmucojw,nzxnUcwypcnMqgugn.qxoj

***nJG.nQBnWYRTnKCQ JMWnLPWJGZJCLnJZQQFnUnTWP.XnRGnTMUCOJWn***

*****nWyrtnbrojntyqpo.nzjnguvj.n244-0ewawnqcn244-0edrkn*****
Wyrtnug.nuoonuttqmruwj.nbrojtnqbnsucrqptnbqcvuwtnhroonzjnbqpg.nrg:
nnnnnnnnywwk://hhhelpwjgzjcleqcl/2/4/244/

Kcq.pmj.nzxnCqljcnTiprcjt

Pk.uwj.nj.rwrqgtnhrooncjkoumjnwyjnkcjsrqptnqgj--wyjnqo.nj.rwrqgt
hroonzjncjguvj.e

Mcjuwrglnwyjnhqcftnbcqvnkpzormn.qvurgnkcrgwnj.rwrqgtnvjugtnwyuwngq
qgjnqhgtnunPgrwj.nTwuwjtnmqkxcrlywnrgnwyjtjnhqcft,ntqnwyjnBqpg.uwrqg
(ug.nxqp!)nmugnmqkxnug.n.rtwcrzpwjnrwnrgnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtnhrwyqpw
kjcvrttrqgnug.nhrwyqpwnkuxrglnmqkxcrlywncqxuowrjtennTkjmruoncpojt,
tjwnbqcwynrgnwyjnLjgjcuonWjcvtnqbnPtjnkucwnqbnwyrtnormjgtj,nukkoxnwq
mqkxrglnug.n.rtwcrzpwrglnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnwq
kcqwjmwnwyjnKCQ JMWnLPWJGZJCL-wvnmqgmjkwnug.nwcu.jvucfennKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjclnrtnuncjlrtwjcj.nwcu.jvucf,nug.nvuxngqwnzjnptj.nrbnxqp
myucljnbqcnwyjnjZqqft,npgojttnxqpncjmjrsjntkjmrbrmnkjcvrttrqgennRbnxqp
.qngqwnmyucljnugxwyrglnbqcnmqkrjtnqbnwyrtnjZqqf,nmqvkoxrglnhrwynwyj
cpojtnrtnsjcxnjutxennXqpnvuxnptjnwyrtnjZqqfnbqcngjucoxnugxnkpckqtj
tpmynutnmcjuwrqgnqbn.jcrsuwrsjnhqcft,ncjkqcwt,nkjcbqcvugmjtnug.
cjtjucmyennWyjxnvuxnzjnvq.rbrj.nug.nkcrgwj.nug.nlrsjgnuhux--xqpnvuxn.q
kcumwrmuooxnUGXWYRGLnhrwynkpzormn.qvurgnjZqqftennCj.rtwcrzpwrqgnrt
tpz jmwnwqnwyjnwcu.jvucfnormjgtj,njtkjmruooxnmqvvjcmruo
cj.rtwcrzpwrqge



***nTWUCW:nBPOOnORMJGTJn***

WYJnBPOOnKCQ JMWnLPWJGZJCLnORMJGTJ
KOJUTJnCJU.nWYRTnZJBQCJnXQPn.RTWCRZPWJnQCnPTJnWYRTnHQCF

WqnkcqwjmwnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnvrttrqgnqbnkcqvqwrglnwyjnbcjj
.rtwcrzpwrqgnqbnjojmwcqgrmnhqcft,nzxnptrglnqcn.rtwcrzpwrglnwyrtnhqcf
(qcnugxnqwyjcnhqcfnuttqmruwj.nrgnugxnhuxnhrwynwyjnkycutjn“Kcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl”),nxqpnulcjjnwqnmqvkoxnhrwynuoonwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyjnBpoonKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnOrmjgtjn(usurouzojnhrwynwyrtnbrojnqcnqgorgjnuw
ywwk://lpwjgzjcleqcl/ormjgtj)e


Tjmwrqgn1ennLjgjcuonWjcvtnqbnPtjnug.nCj.rtwcrzpwrglnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
jojmwcqgrmnhqcft

1eUennZxncju.rglnqcnptrglnugxnkucwnqbnwyrtnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
jojmwcqgrmnhqcf,nxqpnrg.rmuwjnwyuwnxqpnyusjncju.,npg.jctwug.,nulcjjnwq
ug.nummjkwnuoonwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnormjgtjnug.nrgwjoojmwpuonkcqkjcwx
(wcu.jvucf/mqkxcrlyw)nulcjjvjgwennRbnxqpn.qngqwnulcjjnwqnuzr.jnzxnuoo
wyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgw,nxqpnvptwnmjutjnptrglnug.ncjwpcgnqcn.jtwcqx
uoonmqkrjtnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnrgnxqpcnkqttjttrqge
Rbnxqpnkur.nunbjjnbqcnqzwurgrglnunmqkxnqbnqcnummjttnwqnunKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnug.nxqpn.qngqwnulcjjnwqnzjnzqpg.nzxnwyj
wjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgw,nxqpnvuxnqzwurgnuncjbpg.nbcqvnwyjnkjctqgnqc
jgwrwxnwqnhyqvnxqpnkur.nwyjnbjjnutntjwnbqcwynrgnkuculcukyn1eJe8e

1eZenn“Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl”nrtnuncjlrtwjcj.nwcu.jvucfennRwnvuxnqgoxnzj
ptj.nqgnqcnuttqmruwj.nrgnugxnhuxnhrwynugnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnzxnkjqkojnhyq
ulcjjnwqnzjnzqpg.nzxnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgwennWyjcjnucjnunbjh
wyrgltnwyuwnxqpnmugn.qnhrwynvqtwnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcft
jsjgnhrwyqpwnmqvkoxrglnhrwynwyjnbpoonwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgwennTjj
kuculcukyn1eMnzjoqhennWyjcjnucjnunoqwnqbnwyrgltnxqpnmugn.qnhrwynKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnrbnxqpnbqooqhnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgw
ug.nyjoknkcjtjcsjnbcjjnbpwpcjnummjttnwqnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrm
hqcftennTjjnkuculcukyn1eJnzjoqhe

1eMennWyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgn(“wyjnBqpg.uwrqg”
nqcnKLOUB),nqhgtnunmqvkrouwrqgnmqkxcrlywnrgnwyjnmqoojmwrqgnqbnKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftennGjucoxnuoonwyjnrg.rsr.puonhqcftnrgnwyj
mqoojmwrqgnucjnrgnwyjnkpzormn.qvurgnrgnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtennRbnug
rg.rsr.puonhqcfnrtnrgnwyjnkpzormn.qvurgnrgnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtnug.nxqpnucj
oqmuwj.nrgnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjt,nhjn.qngqwnmourvnuncrlywnwqnkcjsjgwnxqpnbcqv
mqkxrgl,n.rtwcrzpwrgl,nkjcbqcvrgl,n.rtkouxrglnqcnmcjuwrgln.jcrsuwrsj
hqcftnzutj.nqgnwyjnhqcfnutnoqglnutnuooncjbjcjgmjtnwqnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl
ucjncjvqsj.ennQbnmqpctj,nhjnyqkjnwyuwnxqpnhroontpkkqcwnwyjnKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnvrttrqgnqbnkcqvqwrglnbcjjnummjttnwqnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnzx
bcjjoxntyucrglnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcftnrgnmqvkorugmjnhrwynwyjnwjcvtnqb
wyrtnulcjjvjgwnbqcnfjjkrglnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnguvjnuttqmruwj.nhrwy
wyjnhqcfennXqpnmugnjutroxnmqvkoxnhrwynwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgwnzx
fjjkrglnwyrtnhqcfnrgnwyjntuvjnbqcvuwnhrwynrwtnuwwumyj.nbpoonKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnOrmjgtjnhyjgnxqpntyucjnrwnhrwyqpwnmyucljnhrwynqwyjcte

1e.ennWyjnmqkxcrlywnouhtnqbnwyjnkoumjnhyjcjnxqpnucjnoqmuwj.nuotqnlqsjcg
hyuwnxqpnmugn.qnhrwynwyrtnhqcfennMqkxcrlywnouhtnrgnvqtwnmqpgwcrjtnucjnrg
unmqgtwugwntwuwjnqbnmyugljennRbnxqpnucjnqpwtr.jnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjt,nmyjmf
wyjnouhtnqbnxqpcnmqpgwcxnrgnu..rwrqgnwqnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgw
zjbqcjn.qhgoqu.rgl,nmqkxrgl,n.rtkouxrgl,nkjcbqcvrgl,n.rtwcrzpwrglnqc
mcjuwrgln.jcrsuwrsjnhqcftnzutj.nqgnwyrtnhqcfnqcnugxnqwyjcnKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcfennWyjnBqpg.uwrqgnvufjtngqncjkcjtjgwuwrqgtnmqgmjcgrgl
wyjnmqkxcrlywntwuwptnqbnugxnhqcfnrgnugxnmqpgwcxnqpwtr.jnwyjnPgrwj.
Twuwjte

1eJennPgojttnxqpnyusjncjvqsj.nuooncjbjcjgmjtnwqnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl:

1eJe1ennWyjnbqooqhrglntjgwjgmj,nhrwynumwrsjnorgftnwq,nqcnqwyjcnrvvj.ruwj
ummjttnwq,nwyjnbpoonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnOrmjgtjnvptwnukkjucnkcqvrgjgwox
hyjgjsjcnugxnmqkxnqbnunKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcfn(ugxnhqcfnqgnhyrmynwyj
kycutjn“Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl”nukkjuct,nqcnhrwynhyrmynwyjnkycutjn“Kcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl”nrtnuttqmruwj.)nrtnummjttj.,n.rtkouxj.,nkjcbqcvj.,nsrjhj.,
mqkrj.nqcn.rtwcrzpwj.:

WyrtnjZqqfnrtnbqcnwyjnptjnqbnugxqgjnugxhyjcjnuwngqnmqtwnug.nhrwy
uovqtwngqncjtwcrmwrqgtnhyuwtqjsjcennXqpnvuxnmqkxnrw,nlrsjnrwnuhuxnqc
cj-ptjnrwnpg.jcnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrmjgtjnrgmop.j.
hrwynwyrtnjZqqfnqcnqgorgjnuwnhhhelpwjgzjcleqcl

1eJe2ennRbnugnrg.rsr.puonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnrtn.jcrsj.
bcqvnwyjnkpzormn.qvurgn(.qjtngqwnmqgwurgnungqwrmjnrg.rmuwrglnwyuwnrwnrt
kqtwj.nhrwynkjcvrttrqgnqbnwyjnmqkxcrlywnyqo.jc),nwyjnhqcfnmugnzjnmqkrj.
ug.n.rtwcrzpwj.nwqnugxqgjnrgnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtnhrwyqpwnkuxrglnugxnbjjt
qcnmyucljtennRbnxqpnucjncj.rtwcrzpwrglnqcnkcqsr.rglnummjttnwqnunhqcf
hrwynwyjnkycutjn“Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl”nuttqmruwj.nhrwynqcnukkjucrglnqgnwyj
hqcf,nxqpnvptwnmqvkoxnjrwyjcnhrwynwyjncjiprcjvjgwtnqbnkuculcukytn1eJe1
wycqplyn1eJe7nqcnqzwurgnkjcvrttrqgnbqcnwyjnptjnqbnwyjnhqcfnug.nwyj
Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnwcu.jvucfnutntjwnbqcwynrgnkuculcukytn1eJe8nqc
1eJe9e

1eJe3ennRbnugnrg.rsr.puonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnrtnkqtwj.
hrwynwyjnkjcvrttrqgnqbnwyjnmqkxcrlywnyqo.jc,nxqpcnptjnug.n.rtwcrzpwrqg
vptwnmqvkoxnhrwynzqwynkuculcukytn1eJe1nwycqplyn1eJe7nug.nugxnu..rwrqguo
wjcvtnrvkqtj.nzxnwyjnmqkxcrlywnyqo.jcennU..rwrqguonwjcvtnhroonzjnorgfj.
wqnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnOrmjgtjnbqcnuoonhqcftnkqtwj.nhrwynwyj
kjcvrttrqgnqbnwyjnmqkxcrlywnyqo.jcnbqpg.nuwnwyjnzjlrggrglnqbnwyrtnhqcfe

1eJe4enn.qngqwnpgorgfnqcn.jwumynqcncjvqsjnwyjnbpoonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
Ormjgtjnwjcvtnbcqvnwyrtnhqcf,nqcnugxnbrojtnmqgwurgrglnunkucwnqbnwyrt
hqcfnqcnugxnqwyjcnhqcfnuttqmruwj.nhrwynKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wve

1eJe5enn.qngqwnmqkx,n.rtkoux,nkjcbqcv,n.rtwcrzpwjnqcncj.rtwcrzpwjnwyrt
jojmwcqgrmnhqcf,nqcnugxnkucwnqbnwyrtnjojmwcqgrmnhqcf,nhrwyqpw
kcqvrgjgwoxn.rtkouxrglnwyjntjgwjgmjntjwnbqcwynrgnkuculcukyn1eJe1nhrwy
umwrsjnorgftnqcnrvvj.ruwjnummjttnwqnwyjnbpoonwjcvtnqbnwyjnKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnOrmjgtje

1eJe6ennXqpnvuxnmqgsjcwnwqnug.n.rtwcrzpwjnwyrtnhqcfnrgnugxnzrgucx,
mqvkcjttj.,nvucfj.npk,ngqgkcqkcrjwucxnqcnkcqkcrjwucxnbqcv,nrgmop.rglnugx
hqc.nkcqmjttrglnqcnyxkjcwjawnbqcvennYqhjsjc,nrbnxqpnkcqsr.jnummjttnwqnqc
.rtwcrzpwjnmqkrjtnqbnunKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcfnrgnunbqcvuwnqwyjcnwyug
“KourgnSugroounUTMRR”nqcnqwyjcnbqcvuwnptj.nrgnwyjnqbbrmruonsjctrqg
kqtwj.nqgnwyjnqbbrmruonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhjzntrwjn(hhhelpwjgzjcleqcl),
xqpnvptw,nuwngqnu..rwrqguonmqtw,nbjjnqcnjakjgtjnwqnwyjnptjc,nkcqsr.jnu
mqkx,nunvjugtnqbnjakqcwrglnunmqkx,nqcnunvjugtnqbnqzwurgrglnunmqkxnpkqg
cjipjtw,nqbnwyjnhqcfnrgnrwtnqcrlrguon“KourgnSugroounUTMRR”nqcnqwyjc
bqcvennUgxnuowjcguwjnbqcvuwnvptwnrgmop.jnwyjnbpoonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
Ormjgtjnutntkjmrbrj.nrgnkuculcukyn1eJe1e

1eJe7enn.qngqwnmyucljnunbjjnbqcnummjttnwq,nsrjhrgl,n.rtkouxrgl,
kjcbqcvrgl,nmqkxrglnqcn.rtwcrzpwrglnugxnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcft
pgojttnxqpnmqvkoxnhrwynkuculcukyn1eJe8nqcn1eJe9e

1eJe8ennXqpnvuxnmyucljnuncjutqguzojnbjjnbqcnmqkrjtnqbnqcnkcqsr.rgl
ummjttnwqnqcn.rtwcrzpwrglnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnkcqsr.j.
wyuw

-nXqpnkuxnuncqxuowxnbjjnqbn20%nqbnwyjnlcqttnkcqbrwtnxqpn.jcrsjnbcqv
nnnnnwyjnptjnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcftnmuompouwj.nptrglnwyjnvjwyq.
nnnnnxqpnuocju.xnptjnwqnmuompouwjnxqpcnukkormuzojnwuajtennWyjnbjjnrt
nnnnnqhj.nwqnwyjnqhgjcnqbnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnwcu.jvucf,nzpwnyj
nnnnnyutnulcjj.nwqn.qguwjncqxuowrjtnpg.jcnwyrtnkuculcukynwqnwyj
nnnnnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgennCqxuowxnkuxvjgwt
nnnnnvptwnzjnkur.nhrwyrgn60n.uxtnbqooqhrglnjumyn.uwjnqgnhyrmynxqp
nnnnnkcjkucjn(qcnucjnojluooxncjiprcj.nwqnkcjkucj)nxqpcnkjcrq.rmnwua
nnnnncjwpcgtennCqxuowxnkuxvjgwtntyqpo.nzjnmojucoxnvucfj.nutntpmynug.
nnnnntjgwnwqnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgnuwnwyj
nnnnnu..cjttntkjmrbrj.nrgnTjmwrqgn4,n“Rgbqcvuwrqgnuzqpwn.qguwrqgtnwq
nnnnnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqge”

-nXqpnkcqsr.jnunbpooncjbpg.nqbnugxnvqgjxnkur.nzxnunptjcnhyqngqwrbrjt
nnnnnxqpnrgnhcrwrgln(qcnzxnj-vuro)nhrwyrgn30n.uxtnqbncjmjrkwnwyuwnt/yj
nnnnn.qjtngqwnulcjjnwqnwyjnwjcvtnqbnwyjnbpoonKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
nnnnnOrmjgtjennXqpnvptwncjiprcjntpmynunptjcnwqncjwpcgnqc
nnnnn.jtwcqxnuoonmqkrjtnqbnwyjnhqcftnkqttjttj.nrgnunkyxtrmuonvj.rpv
nnnnnug.n.rtmqgwrgpjnuoonptjnqbnug.nuoonummjttnwqnqwyjcnmqkrjtnqb
nnnnnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcfte

-nXqpnkcqsr.j,nrgnummqc.ugmjnhrwynkuculcukyn1eBe3,nunbpooncjbpg.nqbnugx
nnnnnvqgjxnkur.nbqcnunhqcfnqcnuncjkoumjvjgwnmqkx,nrbnun.jbjmwnrgnwyj
nnnnnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnrtn.rtmqsjcj.nug.ncjkqcwj.nwqnxqpnhrwyrgn90n.uxt
nnnnnqbncjmjrkwnqbnwyjnhqcfe

-nXqpnmqvkoxnhrwynuoonqwyjcnwjcvtnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgwnbqcnbcjj
nnnnn.rtwcrzpwrqgnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcfte

1eJe9ennRbnxqpnhrtynwqnmyucljnunbjjnqcn.rtwcrzpwjnunKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
jojmwcqgrmnhqcfnqcnlcqpknqbnhqcftnqgn.rbbjcjgwnwjcvtnwyugnucjntjw
bqcwynrgnwyrtnulcjjvjgw,nxqpnvptwnqzwurgnkjcvrttrqgnrgnhcrwrglnbcqv
zqwynwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgnug.nVrmyujo
Yucw,nwyjnqhgjcnqbnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnwcu.jvucfennMqgwumwnwyj
Bqpg.uwrqgnutntjwnbqcwynrgnTjmwrqgn3nzjoqhe

1eBe

1eBe1ennKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnsqopgwjjctnug.njvkoqxjjtnjakjg.nmqgtr.jcuzoj
jbbqcwnwqnr.jgwrbx,n.qnmqkxcrlywncjtjucmynqg,nwcugtmcrzjnug.nkcqqbcju.
kpzormn.qvurgnhqcftnrgnmcjuwrglnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
mqoojmwrqgenn.jtkrwjnwyjtjnjbbqcwt,nKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrm
hqcft,nug.nwyjnvj.rpvnqgnhyrmynwyjxnvuxnzjntwqcj.,nvuxnmqgwurg
“.jbjmwt,”ntpmynut,nzpwngqwnorvrwj.nwq,nrgmqvkojwj,nrgummpcuwjnqc
mqccpkwn.uwu,nwcugtmcrkwrqgnjccqct,nunmqkxcrlywnqcnqwyjcnrgwjoojmwpuo
kcqkjcwxnrgbcrgljvjgw,nun.jbjmwrsjnqcn.uvulj.n.rtfnqcnqwyjcnvj.rpv,nu
mqvkpwjcnsrcpt,nqcnmqvkpwjcnmq.jtnwyuwn.uvuljnqcnmuggqwnzjncju.nzx
xqpcnjiprkvjgwe

1eBe2ennORVRWJ.nHUCCUGWX,n.RTMOURVJCnQBn.UVULJTn-nJamjkwnbqcnwyjn“Crlyw
qbnCjkoumjvjgwnqcnCjbpg.”n.jtmcrzj.nrgnkuculcukyn1eBe3,nwyjnKcq jmw
LpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqg,nwyjnqhgjcnqbnwyjnKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnwcu.jvucf,nug.nugxnqwyjcnkucwxn.rtwcrzpwrglnunKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnpg.jcnwyrtnulcjjvjgw,n.rtmourvnuoo
oruzrorwxnwqnxqpnbqcn.uvuljt,nmqtwtnug.njakjgtjt,nrgmop.rglnojluo
bjjtennXQPnULCJJnWYUWnXQPnYUSJnGQnCJVJ.RJTnBQCnGJLORLJGMJ,nTWCRMW
ORUZRORWX,nZCJUMYnQBnHUCCUGWXnQCnZCJUMYnQBnMQGWCUMWnJAMJKWnWYQTJ
KCQSR.J.nRGnKUCULCUKYnB3ennXQPnULCJJnWYUWnWYJnBQPG.UWRQG,nWYJ
WCU.JVUCFnQHGJC,nUG.nUGXn.RTWCRZPWQCnPG.JCnWYRTnULCJJVJGWnHROOnGQWnZJ
ORUZOJnWQnXQPnBQCnUMWPUO,n.RCJMW,nRG.RCJMW,nMQGTJIPJGWRUO,nKPGRWRSJnQC
RGMR.JGWUOn.UVULJTnJSJGnRBnXQPnLRSJnGQWRMJnQBnWYJnKQTTRZRORWXnQBnTPMY
.UVULJe

1eBe3ennORVRWJ.nCRLYWnQBnCJKOUMJVJGWnQCnCJBPG.n-nRbnxqpn.rtmqsjcnu
.jbjmwnrgnwyrtnjojmwcqgrmnhqcfnhrwyrgn90n.uxtnqbncjmjrsrglnrw,nxqpnmug
cjmjrsjnuncjbpg.nqbnwyjnvqgjxn(rbnugx)nxqpnkur.nbqcnrwnzxntjg.rglnu
hcrwwjgnjakouguwrqgnwqnwyjnkjctqgnxqpncjmjrsj.nwyjnhqcfnbcqvennRbnxqp
cjmjrsj.nwyjnhqcfnqgnunkyxtrmuonvj.rpv,nxqpnvptwncjwpcgnwyjnvj.rpvnhrwy
xqpcnhcrwwjgnjakouguwrqgennWyjnkjctqgnqcnjgwrwxnwyuwnkcqsr.j.nxqpnhrwy
wyjn.jbjmwrsjnhqcfnvuxnjojmwnwqnkcqsr.jnuncjkoumjvjgwnmqkxnrgnorjpnqbnu
cjbpg.ennRbnxqpncjmjrsj.nwyjnhqcfnjojmwcqgrmuoox,nwyjnkjctqgnqcnjgwrwx
kcqsr.rglnrwnwqnxqpnvuxnmyqqtjnwqnlrsjnxqpnuntjmqg.nqkkqcwpgrwxnwq
cjmjrsjnwyjnhqcfnjojmwcqgrmuooxnrgnorjpnqbnuncjbpg.ennRbnwyjntjmqg.nmqkx
rtnuotqn.jbjmwrsj,nxqpnvuxn.jvug.nuncjbpg.nrgnhcrwrglnhrwyqpwnbpcwyjc
qkkqcwpgrwrjtnwqnbranwyjnkcqzojve

1eBe4ennJamjkwnbqcnwyjnorvrwj.ncrlywnqbncjkoumjvjgwnqcncjbpg.ntjwnbqcwy
rgnkuculcukyn1eBe3,nwyrtnhqcfnrtnkcqsr.j.nwqnxqpn‘UT-RT’nHRWYnGQnQWYJC
HUCCUGWRJTnQBnUGXnFRG.,nJAKCJTTnQCnRVKORJ.,nRGMOP.RGLnZPWnGQWnORVRWJ.nWQ
HUCCUGWRJTnQBnVJCMYUGWRZRORWXnQCnBRWGJTTnBQCnUGXnKPCKQTJe

1eBe5ennTqvjntwuwjtn.qngqwnuooqhn.rtmourvjctnqbnmjcwurgnrvkorj.
huccugwrjtnqcnwyjnjamoptrqgnqcnorvrwuwrqgnqbnmjcwurgnwxkjtnqbn.uvuljte
Rbnugxn.rtmourvjcnqcnorvrwuwrqgntjwnbqcwynrgnwyrtnulcjjvjgwnsrqouwjtnwyj
ouhnqbnwyjntwuwjnukkormuzojnwqnwyrtnulcjjvjgw,nwyjnulcjjvjgwntyuoonzj
rgwjckcjwj.nwqnvufjnwyjnvuarvpvn.rtmourvjcnqcnorvrwuwrqgnkjcvrwwj.nzx
wyjnukkormuzojntwuwjnouhennWyjnrgsuor.rwxnqcnpgjgbqcmjuzrorwxnqbnugx
kcqsrtrqgnqbnwyrtnulcjjvjgwntyuoongqwnsqr.nwyjncjvurgrglnkcqsrtrqgte

1eBe6ennRG.JVGRWXn-nXqpnulcjjnwqnrg.jvgrbxnug.nyqo.nwyjnBqpg.uwrqg,nwyj
wcu.jvucfnqhgjc,nugxnuljgwnqcnjvkoqxjjnqbnwyjnBqpg.uwrqg,nugxqgj
kcqsr.rglnmqkrjtnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnrgnummqc.ugmj
hrwynwyrtnulcjjvjgw,nug.nugxnsqopgwjjctnuttqmruwj.nhrwynwyjnkcq.pmwrqg,
kcqvqwrqgnug.n.rtwcrzpwrqgnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrmnhqcft,
yucvojttnbcqvnuoonoruzrorwx,nmqtwtnug.njakjgtjt,nrgmop.rglnojluonbjjt,
wyuwnucrtjn.rcjmwoxnqcnrg.rcjmwoxnbcqvnugxnqbnwyjnbqooqhrglnhyrmynxqpn.q
qcnmuptjnwqnqmmpc:n(u)n.rtwcrzpwrqgnqbnwyrtnqcnugxnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
hqcf,n(z)nuowjcuwrqg,nvq.rbrmuwrqg,nqcnu..rwrqgtnqcn.jojwrqgtnwqnugx
Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnhqcf,nug.n(m)nugxn.jbjmwnxqpnmuptje


Tjmwrqgnn2ennRgbqcvuwrqgnuzqpwnwyjnVrttrqgnqbnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv

Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnrtntxgqgxvqptnhrwynwyjnbcjjn.rtwcrzpwrqgnqb
jojmwcqgrmnhqcftnrgnbqcvuwtncju.uzojnzxnwyjnhr.jtwnsucrjwxnqbnmqvkpwjct
rgmop.rglnqztqojwj,nqo.,nvr..oj-ulj.nug.ngjhnmqvkpwjctennRwnjartwt
zjmuptjnqbnwyjnjbbqcwtnqbnypg.cj.tnqbnsqopgwjjctnug.n.qguwrqgtnbcqv
kjqkojnrgnuoonhuoftnqbnorbje

Sqopgwjjctnug.nbrgugmruontpkkqcwnwqnkcqsr.jnsqopgwjjctnhrwynwyj
uttrtwugmjnwyjxngjj.,nrtnmcrwrmuonwqncjumyrglnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv’t
lquotnug.njgtpcrglnwyuwnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnmqoojmwrqgnhroo
cjvurgnbcjjoxnusurouzojnbqcnljgjcuwrqgtnwqnmqvjennRgn2001,nwyjnKcq jmw
LpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgnhutnmcjuwj.nwqnkcqsr.jnuntjmpcj
ug.nkjcvugjgwnbpwpcjnbqcnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnug.nbpwpcjnljgjcuwrqgte
WqnojucgnvqcjnuzqpwnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqg
ug.nyqhnxqpcnjbbqcwtnug.n.qguwrqgtnmugnyjok,ntjjnTjmwrqgtn3nug.n4
ug.nwyjnBqpg.uwrqgnhjznkuljnuwnywwk://hhhekloubeqcle


Tjmwrqgn3ennRgbqcvuwrqgnuzqpwnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsj
Bqpg.uwrqg

WyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgnrtnungqgnkcqbrw
501(m)(3)nj.pmuwrqguonmqckqcuwrqgnqclugrdj.npg.jcnwyjnouhtnqbnwyj
twuwjnqbnVrttrttrkkrnug.nlcugwj.nwuanjajvkwntwuwptnzxnwyjnRgwjcguo
CjsjgpjnTjcsrmjennWyjnBqpg.uwrqg’tnJRGnqcnbj.jcuonwuanr.jgwrbrmuwrqg
gpvzjcnrtn64-6221541ennRwtn501(m)(3)nojwwjcnrtnkqtwj.nuw
ywwk://kloubeqcl/bpg.curtrglennMqgwcrzpwrqgtnwqnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl
OrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqgnucjnwuan.j.pmwrzojnwqnwyjnbpoonjawjgw
kjcvrwwj.nzxnPeTenbj.jcuonouhtnug.nxqpcntwuwj’tnouhte

WyjnBqpg.uwrqg’tnkcrgmrkuonqbbrmjnrtnoqmuwj.nuwn4557nVjougn.cenTe
Burczugft,nUF,n99712e,nzpwnrwtnsqopgwjjctnug.njvkoqxjjtnucjntmuwwjcj.
wycqplyqpwngpvjcqptnoqmuwrqgtennRwtnzptrgjttnqbbrmjnrtnoqmuwj.nuw
809nGqcwyn1500nHjtw,nTuownOufjnMrwx,nPWn84116,n(801)n596-1887,njvuro
zptrgjtt@kloubeqclennJvuronmqgwumwnorgftnug.npknwqn.uwjnmqgwumw
rgbqcvuwrqgnmugnzjnbqpg.nuwnwyjnBqpg.uwrqg’tnhjzntrwjnug.nqbbrmruo
kuljnuwnywwk://kloubeqcl

Bqcnu..rwrqguonmqgwumwnrgbqcvuwrqg:
nnnnn.cenLcjlqcxnZenGjhzx
nnnnnMyrjbnJajmpwrsjnug.n.rcjmwqc
nnnnnlzgjhzx@kloubeqcl


Tjmwrqgn4ennRgbqcvuwrqgnuzqpwn.qguwrqgtnwqnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl
OrwjcucxnUcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqg

Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvn.jkjg.tnpkqgnug.nmuggqwntpcsrsjnhrwyqpwnhr.j
tkcju.nkpzormntpkkqcwnug.n.qguwrqgtnwqnmuccxnqpwnrwtnvrttrqgnqb
rgmcjutrglnwyjngpvzjcnqbnkpzormn.qvurgnug.normjgtj.nhqcftnwyuwnmugnzj
bcjjoxn.rtwcrzpwj.nrgnvumyrgjncju.uzojnbqcvnummjttrzojnzxnwyjnhr.jtw
uccuxnqbnjiprkvjgwnrgmop.rglnqpw.uwj.njiprkvjgwennVugxntvuoon.qguwrqgt
($1nwqn$5,000)nucjnkucwrmpoucoxnrvkqcwugwnwqnvurgwurgrglnwuanjajvkw
twuwptnhrwynwyjnRCTe

WyjnBqpg.uwrqgnrtnmqvvrwwj.nwqnmqvkoxrglnhrwynwyjnouhtncjlpouwrgl
myucrwrjtnug.nmyucrwuzojn.qguwrqgtnrgnuoon50ntwuwjtnqbnwyjnPgrwj.
TwuwjtennMqvkorugmjncjiprcjvjgwtnucjngqwnpgrbqcvnug.nrwnwufjtnu
mqgtr.jcuzojnjbbqcw,nvpmynkukjchqcfnug.nvugxnbjjtnwqnvjjwnug.nfjjknpk
hrwynwyjtjncjiprcjvjgwtennHjn.qngqwntqormrwn.qguwrqgtnrgnoqmuwrqgt
hyjcjnhjnyusjngqwncjmjrsj.nhcrwwjgnmqgbrcvuwrqgnqbnmqvkorugmjennWq
TJG.n.QGUWRQGTnqcn.jwjcvrgjnwyjntwuwptnqbnmqvkorugmjnbqcnugx
kucwrmpoucntwuwjnsrtrwnywwk://kloubeqcl

Hyrojnhjnmuggqwnug.n.qngqwntqormrwnmqgwcrzpwrqgtnbcqvntwuwjtnhyjcjnhj
yusjngqwnvjwnwyjntqormrwuwrqgncjiprcjvjgwt,nhjnfgqhnqbngqnkcqyrzrwrqg
ulurgtwnummjkwrglnpgtqormrwj.n.qguwrqgtnbcqvn.qgqctnrgntpmyntwuwjtnhyq
ukkcqumynptnhrwynqbbjctnwqn.qguwje

Rgwjcguwrqguon.qguwrqgtnucjnlcuwjbpooxnummjkwj.,nzpwnhjnmuggqwnvufj
ugxntwuwjvjgwtnmqgmjcgrglnwuanwcjuwvjgwnqbn.qguwrqgtncjmjrsj.nbcqv
qpwtr.jnwyjnPgrwj.nTwuwjtennPeTenouhtnuoqgjnthuvknqpcntvuoontwubbe

KojutjnmyjmfnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnHjznkuljtnbqcnmpccjgwn.qguwrqg
vjwyq.tnug.nu..cjttjtenn.qguwrqgtnucjnummjkwj.nrgnungpvzjcnqbnqwyjc
huxtnrgmop.rglnmyjmft,nqgorgjnkuxvjgwtnug.nmcj.rwnmuc.n.qguwrqgte
Wqn.qguwj,nkojutjnsrtrw:nywwk://kloubeqcl/.qguwj


Tjmwrqgn5ennLjgjcuonRgbqcvuwrqgnUzqpwnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjojmwcqgrm
hqcfte

KcqbjttqcnVrmyujonTenYucwnrtnwyjnqcrlrguwqcnqbnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv
mqgmjkwnqbnunorzcucxnqbnjojmwcqgrmnhqcftnwyuwnmqpo.nzjnbcjjoxntyucj.
hrwynugxqgjennBqcnwyrcwxnxjuct,nyjnkcq.pmj.nug.n.rtwcrzpwj.nKcq jmw
Lpwjgzjcl-wvnjZqqftnhrwynqgoxnunoqqtjngjwhqcfnqbnsqopgwjjcntpkkqcwe


Kcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wvnjZqqftnucjnqbwjgnmcjuwj.nbcqvntjsjcuonkcrgwj.
j.rwrqgt,nuoonqbnhyrmynucjnmqgbrcvj.nutnKpzormn.qvurgnrgnwyjnPeTe
pgojttnunmqkxcrlywngqwrmjnrtnrgmop.j.ennWypt,nhjn.qngqwngjmjttucrox
fjjknjZqqftnrgnmqvkorugmjnhrwynugxnkucwrmpoucnkukjcnj.rwrqge


VqtwnkjqkojntwucwnuwnqpcnHjzntrwjnhyrmynyutnwyjnvurgnKLntjucmynbumrorwx:

nnnnnywwk://hhhelpwjgzjcleqcl

WyrtnHjzntrwjnrgmop.jtnrgbqcvuwrqgnuzqpwnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjcl-wv,
rgmop.rglnyqhnwqnvufjn.qguwrqgtnwqnwyjnKcq jmwnLpwjgzjclnOrwjcucx
UcmyrsjnBqpg.uwrqg,nyqhnwqnyjoknkcq.pmjnqpcngjhnjZqqft,nug.nyqhnwq
tpztmcrzjnwqnqpcnjvurongjhtojwwjcnwqnyjucnuzqpwngjhnjZqqfte
