
VybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsBFrr srtsUrfcsEja ;srisVybsPyqdb,sfcsYbiuqo
Ubdzjddb

VyjhsbFrr sjhstrisvybsnhbsrtsqocrobsqocpybibsqvsorsarhvsqoespjvysqdurhv
orsibhvijavjrohspyqvhrbzbi.ssCrnsuqcsargcsjv,smjzbsjvsqpqcsrisib-nhbsjv
noebisvybsvbiuhsrtsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjabohbsjoadnebespjvysvyjh
bFrr srisrodjobsqvsppp.mnvbofbim.rim


Vjvdb:sUrfcsEja ;srisVybsPyqdb

Qnvyri:sYbiuqosUbdzjddb

IbdbqhbsEqvb:sEbabufbis25,s2008s[BFrr s#2701]sDqhvsNgeqvbe:sEbabufbis3,
2017

Dqomnqmb:sBomdjhy

Ayqiqavbishbvsboarejom:sNVT-8

***sHVQIVsRTsVYJHsGIRKBAVsMNVBOFBIMsBFRR sURFCsEJA ;sRIsVYBsPYQDBs***




GirenabesfcsEqojbdsDqwqinh,sKrobhbc,sqoesEqzjesPjembi





URFC-EJA ;

ri,sVYBsPYQDB.

FcsYbiuqosUbdzjddb



AROVBOVH

BVCURDRMC.

BXVIQAVHs(HnggdjbesfcsqsHnf-Hnf-Djfiqijqo).

AYQGVBIs1.sDrrujomh.

AYQGVBIs2.sVybsAqigbv-Fqm.

AYQGVBIs3.sVybsHgrnvbi-Joo.

AYQGVBIs4.sVybsArnovbigqob.

AYQGVBIs5.sFibq tqhv.

AYQGVBIs6.sVybsHvibbv.

AYQGVBIs7.sVybsAyqgbd.

AYQGVBIs8.sVybsGndgjv.

AYQGVBIs9.sVybsHbiuro.

AYQGVBIs10.sQsFrhrusTijboe.

AYQGVBIs11.sOjmyvmrpo.

AYQGVBIs12.sFjrmiqgyjaqd.

AYQGVBIs13.sPybbdfqiirp.

AYQGVBIs14.sOqovna bv.

AYQGVBIs15.sAyrpebi.

AYQGVBIs16.sVybsHyjg.

AYQGVBIs17.sVybsIquqeqo.

AYQGVBIs18.sYjhsUqi .

AYQGVBIs19.sVybsGirgybv.

AYQGVBIs20.sQddsQhvji.

AYQGVBIs21.sMrjomsQfrqie.

AYQGVBIs22.sUbiicsAyijhvuqh.

AYQGVBIs23.sVybsDbbsHyrib.

AYQGVBIs24.sVybsQezraqvb.

AYQGVBIs25.sGrhvhaijgv.

AYQGVBIs26.s ojmyvhsqoesHlnjibh.

AYQGVBIs27.s ojmyvhsqoesHlnjibh.

AYQGVBIs28.sQyqf.

AYQGVBIs29.sBovbisQyqf;svrsYju,sHvnff.

AYQGVBIs30.sVybsGjgb.

AYQGVBIs31.sLnbbosUqf.

AYQGVBIs32.sAbvrdrmc.

AYQGVBIs33.sVybsHgba hocebi.

AYQGVBIs34.sVybsAqfjo-Vqfdb.

AYQGVBIs35.sVybsUqhv-Ybqe.

AYQGVBIs36.sVybsLnqivbi-Eba .

AYQGVBIs37.sHnohbv.

AYQGVBIs38.sEnh .

AYQGVBIs39.sTjihvsOjmyv-Pqvay.

AYQGVBIs40.sUjeojmyv,sTribaqhvdb.

AYQGVBIs41.sUrfcsEja .

AYQGVBIs42.sVybsPyjvbobhhsrtsvybsPyqdb.

AYQGVBIs43.sYqi !

AYQGVBIs44.sVybsAyqiv.

AYQGVBIs45.sVybsQttjeqzjv.

AYQGVBIs46.sHniujhbh.

AYQGVBIs47.sVybsUqv-Uq bi.

AYQGVBIs48.sVybsTjihvsDrpbijom.

AYQGVBIs49.sVybsYcboq.

AYQGVBIs50.sQyqf’hsFrqvsqoesAibp.sTbeqddqy.

AYQGVBIs51.sVybsHgjijv-Hgrnv.

AYQGVBIs52.sVybsQdfqvirhh.

AYQGVBIs53.sVybsMqu.

AYQGVBIs54.sVybsVrpo-Yr’hsHvric.

AYQGVBIs55.sRtsvybsUrohvirnhsGjavnibhsrtsPyqdbh.

AYQGVBIs56.sRtsvybsDbhhsBiirobrnhsGjavnibhsrtsPyqdbh,sqoesvybsVinb
GjavnibhsrtsPyqdjomsHabobh.

AYQGVBIs57.sRtsPyqdbhsjosGqjov;sjosVbbvy;sjosPrre;sjosHybbv-Jiro;sjo
Hvrob;sjosUrnovqjoh;sjosHvqih.

AYQGVBIs58.sFijv.

AYQGVBIs59.sHlnje.

AYQGVBIs60.sVybsDjob.

AYQGVBIs61.sHvnffs jddhsqsPyqdb.

AYQGVBIs62.sVybsEqiv.

AYQGVBIs63.sVybsAirvay.

AYQGVBIs64.sHvnff’hsHnggbi.

AYQGVBIs65.sVybsPyqdbsqhsqsEjhy.

AYQGVBIs66.sVybsHyqi sUqhhqaib.

AYQGVBIs67.sAnvvjomsJo.

AYQGVBIs68.sVybsFdqo bv.

AYQGVBIs69.sVybsTnobiqd.

AYQGVBIs70.sVybsHgycox.

AYQGVBIs71.sVybsKbirfrqu’hsHvric.

AYQGVBIs72.sVybsUro bc-Irgb.

AYQGVBIs73.sHvnffsqoesTdqh s jddsqsIjmyvsPyqdb;sqoesVybosYqzbsqsVqd 
rzbisYju.

AYQGVBIs74.sVybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsYbqe—AroviqhvbesZjbp.

AYQGVBIs75.sVybsIjmyvsPyqdb’hsYbqe—AroviqhvbesZjbp.

AYQGVBIs76.sVybsFqvvbijom-Iqu.

AYQGVBIs77.sVybsMibqvsYbjebdfnimysVno.

AYQGVBIs78.sAjhvbiosqoesFna bvh.

AYQGVBIs79.sVybsGiqjijb.

AYQGVBIs80.sVybsOnv.

AYQGVBIs81.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsZjimjo.

AYQGVBIs82.sVybsYrorisqoesMdricsrtsPyqdjom.

AYQGVBIs83.sKroqysYjhvrijaqddcsIbmqiebe.

AYQGVBIs84.sGjvaygrdjom.

AYQGVBIs85.sVybsTrnovqjo.

AYQGVBIs86.sVybsVqjd.

AYQGVBIs87.sVybsMiqoesQiuqeq.

AYQGVBIs88.sHayrrdhsqoesHayrrduqhvbih.

AYQGVBIs89.sTqhv-TjhysqoesDrrhb-Tjhy.

AYQGVBIs90.sYbqehsrisVqjdh.

AYQGVBIs91.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsIrhb-Fne.

AYQGVBIs92.sQufbimijh.

AYQGVBIs93.sVybsAqhvqpqc.

AYQGVBIs94.sQsHlnbbwbsrtsvybsYqoe.

AYQGVBIs95.sVybsAqhhra .

AYQGVBIs96.sVybsVic-Pri h.

AYQGVBIs97.sVybsDqug.

AYQGVBIs98.sHvrpjomsErposqoesAdbqijomsNg.

AYQGVBIs99.sVybsErnfdrro.

AYQGVBIs100.sDbmsqoesQiu.

AYQGVBIs101.sVybsEbaqovbi.

AYQGVBIs102.sQsFrpbisjosvybsQihqajebh.

AYQGVBIs103.sUbqhnibubovsrtsVybsPyqdb’hsH bdbvro.

AYQGVBIs104.sVybsTrhhjdsPyqdb.

AYQGVBIs105.sErbhsvybsPyqdb’hsUqmojvnebsEjujojhy?—PjddsYbsGbijhy?

AYQGVBIs106.sQyqf’hsDbm.

AYQGVBIs107.sVybsAqigbovbi.

AYQGVBIs108.sQyqfsqoesvybsAqigbovbi.

AYQGVBIs109.sQyqfsqoesHvqifna sjosvybsAqfjo.

AYQGVBIs110.sLnbblnbmsjosYjhsArttjo.

AYQGVBIs111.sVybsGqajtja.

AYQGVBIs112.sVybsFdqa hujvy.

AYQGVBIs113.sVybsTrimb.

AYQGVBIs114.sVybsMjdebi.

AYQGVBIs115.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsFqaybdri.

AYQGVBIs116.sVybsEcjomsPyqdb.

AYQGVBIs117.sVybsPyqdbsPqvay.

AYQGVBIs118.sVybsLnqeiqov.

AYQGVBIs119.sVybsAqoedbh.

AYQGVBIs120.sVybsEba sVrpqiehsvybsBoesrtsvybsTjihvsOjmyvsPqvay.

AYQGVBIs121.sUjeojmyv.—VybsTribaqhvdbsFndpqi h.

AYQGVBIs122.sUjeojmyvsQdrtv.—VynoebisqoesDjmyvojom.

AYQGVBIs123.sVybsUnh bv.

AYQGVBIs124.sVybsObbedb.

AYQGVBIs125.sVybsDrmsqoesDjob.

AYQGVBIs126.sVybsDjtb-Fnrc.

AYQGVBIs127.sVybsEba .

AYQGVBIs128.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsIqaybd.

AYQGVBIs129.sVybsAqfjo.

AYQGVBIs130.sVybsYqv.

AYQGVBIs131.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsEbdjmyv.

AYQGVBIs132.sVybsHcugyroc.

AYQGVBIs133.sVybsAyqhb—TjihvsEqc.

AYQGVBIs134.sVybsAyqhb—HbaroesEqc.

AYQGVBIs135.sVybsAyqhb.—VyjiesEqc.

Bgjdrmnb




RijmjoqdsViqohaijfbi’hsOrvbh:





Vyjhsvbxvsjhsqsarufjoqvjrosrtsbvbxvh,srobstirusvybsorp-ebtnoavsBIJH
girkbavsqvsZjimjojqsVbaysqoesrobstirusGirkbavsMnvbofbim’hsqiayjzbh.sVyb
girrtibqebihsrtsvyjhszbihjrosqibsjoebfvbesvrsVybsNojzbihjvcsrtsQebdqjeb
DjfiqicstrisgibhbizjomsvybsZjimjojqsVbayszbihjro.sVybsibhndvjomsbvbxv
pqhsarugqibespjvysqsgnfdjaseruqjosyqiesargcszbihjrosrtsvybsvbxv.





ssBVCURDRMC.


ss(HnggdjbesfcsqsDqvbsArohnugvjzbsNhybisvrsqsMiquuqisHayrrd.)

ssVybsgqdbsNhybi—vyibqefqibsjosarqv,sybqiv,sfrec,sqoesfiqjo;sJshbbsyju
ssorp.sYbspqhsbzbisenhvjomsyjhsrdesdbxjarohsqoesmiquuqih,spjvysqslnbbi
ssyqoe biayjbt,sura jomdcsbufbddjhybespjvysqddsvybsmqcstdqmhsrtsqddsvyb
ss orposoqvjrohsrtsvybspride.sYbsdrzbesvrsenhvsyjhsrdesmiquuqih;sjv
sshrubyrpsujdedcsibujoebesyjusrtsyjhsurivqdjvc.

ss“Pyjdbscrnsvq bsjosyqoesvrshayrrdsrvybih,sqoesvrsvbqaysvybusfcspyqv
ssoqubsqspyqdb-tjhysjhsvrsfbsaqddbesjosrnisvromnb,sdbqzjomsrnv,svyirnmy
ssjmoriqoab,svybsdbvvbisY,spyjaysqdurhvsqdrobsuq bvysngsvyb
sshjmojtjaqvjrosrtsvybsprie,scrnsebdjzbisvyqvspyjaysjhsorvsvinb.”
ss—_Yqa dncv._

ss“PYQDB.s*s*s*sHp.sqoesEqo.s_yzqd_.sVyjhsqojuqdsjhsoqubestiru
ssirnoeobhhsrisirddjom;strisjosEqo.s_yzqdv_sjhsqiaybesriszqndvbe.”
ss—_Pbfhvbi’hsEjavjroqic._

ss“PYQDB.s*s*s*sJvsjhsuribsjuubejqvbdcstirusvybsEnv.sqoesMbi.s_Pqddbo_;
ssQ.H.s_Pqdp-jqo_,svrsirdd,svrspqddrp.”s—_Ijayqiehro’hsEjavjroqic._


ssחו,sssssssssssssssss_Ybfibp_.
ssϰητος,ssssssssssssss_Mibb _.
ssABVNH,ssssssssssssss_Dqvjo_.
ssPYŒD,sssssssssssssss_Qomdr-Hqxro_.
ssYZQDV,ssssssssssssss_Eqojhy_.
ssPQD,ssssssssssssssss_Envay_.
ssYPQD,sssssssssssssss_Hpbejhy_.
ssPYQDB,ssssssssssssss_Jabdqoeja_.
ssPYQDB,ssssssssssssss_Bomdjhy_.
ssFQDDBOQ,ssssssssssss_Hgqojhy_.
ssGB BB-ONBB-ONBB,ssss_Tbmbb_.
ssGBYBB-ONBB-ONBB,ssss_Biiruqomrqo_.



ssBXVIQAVH.s(HnggdjbesfcsqsHnf-Hnf-Djfiqijqo).



ssJvspjddsfbshbbosvyqvsvyjhsubibsgqjohvq jomsfniirpbisqoesminf-priusrt
ssqsgrrisebzjdsrtsqsHnf-Hnfsqggbqihsvrsyqzbsmrobsvyirnmysvybsdrom
ssZqvjaqohsqoeshvibbv-hvqddhsrtsvybsbqivy,sgja jomsngspyqvbzbisiqoeru
ssqddnhjrohsvrspyqdbhsybsarndesqocpqchstjoesjosqocsfrr spyqvhrbzbi,
sshqaibesrisgirtqob.sVybibtribscrnsunhvsorv,sjosbzbicsaqhbsqvsdbqhv,
ssvq bsvybsyjmmdbec-gjmmdbecspyqdbshvqvbubovh,syrpbzbisqnvybovja,sjo
ssvybhbsbxviqavh,striszbijvqfdbsmrhgbdsabvrdrmc.sTqistirusjv.sQh
ssvrnayjomsvybsqoajbovsqnvyrihsmbobiqddc,sqhspbddsqhsvybsgrbvhsybib
ssqggbqijom,svybhbsbxviqavhsqibshrdbdcszqdnqfdbsrisbovbivqjojom,sqh
ssqttriejomsqsmdqoajomsfjie’hsbcbszjbpsrtspyqvsyqhsfbbosgirujhanrnhdc
sshqje,svyrnmyv,stqoajbe,sqoeshnomsrtsDbzjqvyqo,sfcsuqocsoqvjrohsqoe
ssmbobiqvjroh,sjoadnejomsrnisrpo.

ssHrstqibsvybbspbdd,sgrrisebzjdsrtsqsHnf-Hnf,spyrhbsaruubovqvrisJsqu.
ssVyrnsfbdrombhvsvrsvyqvsyrgbdbhh,shqddrpsvijfbspyjaysorspjobsrtsvyjh
sspridespjddsbzbispqiu;sqoestrispyrusbzbosGqdbsHybiicsprndesfbsvrr
ssirhc-hvirom;sfnvspjvyspyrusrobshrubvjubhsdrzbhsvrshjv,sqoestbbd
ssgrri-ebzjdjhy,svrr;sqoesmirpsarozjzjqdsngrosvbqih;sqoeshqcsvrsvybu
ssfdnovdc,spjvystnddsbcbhsqoesbugvcsmdqhhbh,sqoesjosorvsqdvrmbvybi
ssnogdbqhqovshqeobhh—Mjzbsjvsng,sHnf-Hnfh!sTrisfcsyrpsunaysvybsurib
ssgqjohscbsvq bsvrsgdbqhbsvybspride,sfcshrsunaysvybsuribshyqddscbstri
ssbzbismrsvyqo dbhh!sPrndesvyqvsJsarndesadbqisrnvsYqugvrosArnivsqoesvyb
ssVnjdbijbhstriscb!sFnvsmndgserposcrnisvbqihsqoesyjbsqdrtvsvrsvyb
ssircqd-uqhvspjvyscrnisybqivh;striscrnistijboehspyrsyqzbsmrobsfbtrib
ssqibsadbqijomsrnvsvybshbzbo-hvrijbesybqzboh,sqoesuq jomsibtnmbbhsrt
ssdrom-gqugbibesMqfijbd,sUjayqbd,sqoesIqgyqbd,sqmqjohvscrnisarujom.
ssYbibscbshvij bsfnvshgdjovbibesybqivhsvrmbvybi—vybib,scbshyqddshvij b
ssnohgdjovbiqfdbsmdqhhbh!

BXVIQAVH.

ss“QoesMresaibqvbesmibqvspyqdbh.”s—_Mbobhjh_.

ss“Dbzjqvyqosuq bvysqsgqvysvrshyjobsqtvbisyju;sRobsprndesvyjo svybsebbg
ssvrsfbsyrqic.”s—_Krf_.

ss“OrpsvybsDriesyqesgibgqibesqsmibqvstjhysvrshpqddrpsngsKroqy.”
ss—_Kroqy_.

ss“Vybibsmrsvybshyjgh;svybibsjhsvyqvsDbzjqvyqospyrusvyrnsyqhvsuqebsvr
ssgdqcsvybibjo.”s—_Ghqduh_.

ss“Josvyqvseqc,svybsDriespjvysyjhshrib,sqoesmibqv,sqoeshviromshprie,
sshyqddsgnojhysDbzjqvyqosvybsgjbiajomshbigbov,sbzbosDbzjqvyqosvyqv
ssairr beshbigbov;sqoesybshyqddshdqcsvybseiqmrosvyqvsjhsjosvybshbq.”
ss—_Jhqjqy_.

ss“Qoespyqvsvyjomshrbzbisfbhjebhsarubvyspjvyjosvybsayqrhsrtsvyjh
ssurohvbi’hsurnvy,sfbsjvsfbqhv,sfrqv,srishvrob,serposjvsmrbhsqdd
ssjoarovjobovdcsvyqvstrndsmibqvshpqddrpsrtsyjh,sqoesgbijhybvysjosvyb
ssfrvvrudbhhsmndtsrtsyjhsgqnoay.”s—_Yrddqoe’hsGdnvqiay’hsUriqdh_.

ss“VybsJoejqosHbqsfibbebvysvybsurhvsqoesvybsfjmmbhvstjhybhsvyqvsqib:
ssquromspyjaysvybsPyqdbhsqoesPyjidgrrdbhsaqddbesFqdqbob,svq bsngsqh
ssunaysjosdbomvysqhstrnisqaibhsrisqigbohsrtsdqoe.”s—_Yrddqoe’hsGdjoc_.

ss“Haqiabdcsyqespbsgirabbebesvprseqchsrosvybshbq,spybosqfrnvshnoijhbsq
ssmibqvsuqocsPyqdbhsqoesrvybisurohvbihsrtsvybshbq,sqggbqibe.sQuromsvyb
sstriubi,srobspqhsrtsqsurhvsurohvirnhshjwb....sVyjhsaqubsvrpqiehsnh,
ssrgbo-urnvybe,siqjhjomsvybspqzbhsrosqddshjebh,sqoesfbqvjomsvybshbq
ssfbtribsyjusjovrsqstrqu.”s—_Vrr b’hsDnajqo_.s“_VybsVinbsYjhvric_.”




ss“Ybszjhjvbesvyjhsarnovicsqdhrspjvysqszjbpsrtsaqvayjomsyrihb-pyqdbh,
sspyjaysyqesfrobhsrtszbicsmibqvszqdnbstrisvybjisvbbvy,srtspyjaysyb
ssfirnmyvshrubsvrsvybs jom....sVybsfbhvspyqdbhspbibsaqvaybesjosyjhsrpo
ssarnovic,srtspyjayshrubspbibstrivc-bjmyv,shrubstjtvcscqiehsdrom.sYb
sshqjesvyqvsybspqhsrobsrtshjxspyrsyqes jddbeshjxvcsjosvprseqch.”
ss—_RvybisrisRvybi’hszbifqdsoqiiqvjzbsvq boserpostirusyjhsurnvysfcs jom
ssQdtibe,sQ.E._s890.

ss“Qoespybibqhsqddsvybsrvybisvyjomh,spybvybisfbqhvsriszbhhbd,svyqv
ssbovbisjovrsvybseibqetndsmndtsrtsvyjhsurohvbi’hs(pyqdb’h)surnvy,sqib
ssjuubejqvbdcsdrhvsqoeshpqddrpbesng,svybshbq-mnembrosibvjibhsjovrsjvsjo
ssmibqvshbanijvc,sqoesvybibshdbbgh.”s—UROVQJMOB.s—_QgrdrmcstrisIqjuroe
ssHbfroe_.

ss“Dbvsnhstdc,sdbvsnhstdc!sRdesOja svq bsubsjtsjhsorvsDbzjqvyqo
ssebhaijfbesfcsvybsorfdbsgirgybvsUrhbhsjosvybsdjtbsrtsgqvjbovsKrf.”
ss—_Iqfbdqjh_.

ss“Vyjhspyqdb’hsdjzbispqhsvprsaqivdrqeh.”s—_Hvrpb’hsQooqdh_.

ss“VybsmibqvsDbzjqvyqosvyqvsuq bvysvybshbqhsvrshbbvybsdj bsfrjdjom
ssgqo.”s—_DriesFqaro’hsZbihjrosrtsvybsGhqduh_.

ss“Vrnayjomsvyqvsurohvirnhsfnd srtsvybspyqdbsrisri spbsyqzbsibabjzbe
ssorvyjomsabivqjo.sVybcsmirpsbxabbejomstqv,sjohrunaysvyqvsqosjoaibejfdb
sslnqovjvcsrtsrjdspjddsfbsbxviqavbesrnvsrtsrobspyqdb.”s—_Jfje_.
ss“_YjhvricsrtsDjtbsqoesEbqvy_.”




ss“Vybshrzbibjmobhvsvyjomsrosbqivysjhsgqiuqabvvjstrisqosjopqiesfinjhb.”
ss—_ jomsYboic_.

ss“Zbicsdj bsqspyqdb.”s—_Yqudbv_.


ss“Pyjaysvrshbanib,sorsh jddsrtsdbqay’hsqivsUrvbsyjusqzqjddb,sfnvsvr
ssibvniobsqmqjobsVrsyjhsprnoe’hspri bi,svyqvspjvysdrpdcseqiv,sEjovjom
ssyjhsfibqhv,syqesfibesyjhsibhvdbhhsgqjob,sDj bsqhsvybsprnoebespyqdbsvr
sshyribstdjbhsvyir’svybsuqjob.”s—_VybsTqbijbsLnbbo_.



ss“Juubohbsqhspyqdbh,svybsurvjrosrtspyrhbszqhvsfrejbhsaqosjosqsgbqabtnd
ssaqdusvirnfdbsvybsrabqosvjddsjvsfrjd.”s—_HjisPjddjqusEqzboqov.sGibtqab
ssvrsMroejfbiv_.

ss“Pyqvshgbiuqabvvjsjh,subosujmyvsknhvdcsernfv,shjoabsvybsdbqiobe
ssYrhuqoonhsjosyjhspri srtsvyjivcscbqih,shqjvysgdqjodc,s_Obhajrslnje
sshjv_.”s—_HjisV.sFirpob.sRtsHgbiuqsAbvjsqoesvybsHgbiuqsAbvjsPyqdb.
ssZjebsyjhsZ.sB._


ss“Dj bsHgboabi’hsVqdnhspjvysyjhsurebiostdqjdsYbsvyibqvbohsinjospjvy
ssyjhsgroebirnhsvqjd.s...sVybjistjxbeskqz’djohsjosyjhshjebsybspbqih,
ssQoesrosyjhsfqa sqsmirzbsrtsgj bhsqggbqih.”s—_Pqddbi’hsFqvvdbsrtsvyb
ssHnuubisJhdqoeh_.



ss“FcsqivsjhsaibqvbesvyqvsmibqvsDbzjqvyqo,saqddbesqsAruuropbqdvysri
ssHvqvb—(josDqvjo,sAjzjvqh)spyjaysjhsfnvsqosqivjtjajqdsuqo.”s—_Rgbojom
sshbovboabsrtsYrffbh’hsDbzjqvyqo_.

ss“HjddcsUqohrndshpqddrpbesjvspjvyrnvsaybpjom,sqhsjtsjvsyqesfbbosq
sshgiqvsjosvybsurnvysrtsqspyqdb.”s—_Gjdmiju’hsGirmibhh_.


ss“VyqvshbqsfbqhvsDbzjqvyqo,spyjaysMresrtsqddsyjhspri hsAibqvbesynmbhv
ssvyqvshpjusvybsrabqoshvibqu.”s—_GqiqejhbsDrhv_.

ss—“VybibsDbzjqvyqo,sYnmbhvsrtsdjzjomsaibqvnibh,sjosvybsebbgsHvibvaybe
ssdj bsqsgirurovricshdbbghsrishpjuh,sQoeshbbuhsqsurzjomsdqoe;sqoesqv
ssyjhsmjddhsEiqphsjo,sqoesqvsyjhsfibqvyshgrnvhsrnvsqshbq.”s—_Jfje_.



ss“Vybsujmyvcspyqdbhspyjayshpjusjosqshbqsrtspqvbi,sqoesyqzbsqshbqsrt
ssrjdshpjuujomsjosvybu.”s—_Tnddbi’hsGirtqobsqoesYrdcsHvqvb_.


ss“HrsadrhbsfbyjoeshrubsgirurovricsdjbsVybsynmbsDbzjqvyqosvrsqvvboe
ssvybjisgibc,sQoesmjzbsorsayqoab,sfnvshpqddrpsjosvybstic,sPyjaysvyirnmy
ssvybjismqgjomskqphsujhvq bsvybspqc.”s—_Eicebo’hsQoonhsUjiqfjdjh_.



ss“Pyjdbsvybspyqdbsjhstdrqvjomsqvsvybshvbiosrtsvybshyjg,svybcsanvsrtt
ssyjhsybqe,sqoesvrpsjvspjvysqsfrqvsqhsobqisvybshyribsqhsjvspjddsarub;
ssfnvsjvspjddsfbsqmirnoesjosvpbdzbsrisvyjivbbostbbvspqvbi.”s—_Vyruqh
ssBemb’hsVbosZrcqmbhsvrsHgjvwfbimbo,sjosGniayqh_.

ss“Josvybjispqcsvybcshqpsuqocspyqdbhshgrivjomsjosvybsrabqo,sqoesjo
sspqovroobhhstnwwjomsngsvybspqvbisvyirnmysvybjisgjgbhsqoeszbovh,spyjay
ssoqvnibsyqhsgdqabesrosvybjishyrndebih.”s—_HjisV.sYbifbiv’hsZrcqmbh
ssjovrsQhjqsqoesQtijaq.sYqiijhsArdd_.

ss“Ybibsvybcshqpshnaysynmbsvirrghsrtspyqdbh,svyqvsvybcspbibstriabesvr
ssgirabbespjvysqsmibqvsebqdsrtsaqnvjrostristbqisvybcshyrndesinosvybji
sshyjgsngrosvybu.”s—_Hayrnvbo’hsHjxvysAjianuoqzjmqvjro_.

ss“PbshbvshqjdstirusvybsBdfb,spjoesO.B.sjosvybshyjgsaqddbesVyb
ssKroqh-jo-vyb-Pyqdb....sHrubshqcsvybspyqdbsaqo’vsrgbosyjhsurnvy,sfnv
ssvyqvsjhsqstqfdb....sVybcstiblnbovdcsadjufsngsvybsuqhvhsvrshbbspybvybi
ssvybcsaqoshbbsqspyqdb,strisvybstjihvsejharzbibisyqhsqsenaqvstrisyjh
ssgqjoh....sJspqhsvrdesrtsqspyqdbsvq bosobqisHybvdqoe,svyqvsyqesqfrzbsq
ssfqiibdsrtsybiijomhsjosyjhsfbddc....sRobsrtsrnisyqigrrobbihsvrdesub
ssvyqvsybsaqnmyvsroabsqspyqdbsjosHgjvwfbimbosvyqvspqhspyjvbsqddsrzbi.”
ss—_QsZrcqmbsvrsMibbodqoe,sQ.E._s1671.s_YqiijhsArdd_.

ss“Hbzbiqdspyqdbhsyqzbsarubsjosngrosvyjhsarqhvs(Tjtb)sQoors1652,srob
ssbjmyvcstbbvsjosdbomvysrtsvybspyqdb-frobs joesaqubsjo,spyjays(qhsJspqh
ssjotriube),sfbhjebhsqszqhvslnqovjvcsrtsrjd,sejesqttries500spbjmyvsrt
ssfqdbbo.sVybskqphsrtsjvshvqoestrisqsmqvbsjosvybsmqiebosrtsGjvtbiibo.”
ss—_Hjffqde’hsTjtbsqoes joirhh_.

ss“UchbdtsyqzbsqmibbesvrsvicspybvybisJsaqosuqhvbisqoes jddsvyjh
ssHgbiuq-abvjspyqdb,strisJsarndesobzbisybqisrtsqocsrtsvyqvshrivsvyqv
sspqhs jddbesfcsqocsuqo,shnaysjhsyjhstjbiabobhhsqoeshpjtvobhh.”
ss—_IjayqiesHviqttrie’hsDbvvbistirusvybsFbiuneqh.sGyjd.sViqoh.sQ.E._
ss1668.

ss“PyqdbhsjosvybshbqsMre’hszrjabsrfbc.”s—_O.sB.sGijubi_.

ss“Pbshqpsqdhrsqfnoeqoabsrtsdqimbspyqdbh,svybibsfbjomsuribsjosvyrhb
sshrnvybioshbqh,sqhsJsuqcshqc,sfcsqsynoeibesvrsrob;svyqospbsyqzbsvrsvyb
ssorivypqiesrtsnh.”s—_AqgvqjosArpdbc’hsZrcqmbsirnoesvybsMdrfb,sQ.E._
ss1729.

ss“...sqoesvybsfibqvysrtsvybspyqdbsjhstiblnbovdcsqvvboebespjvyshnaysqo
ssjohnggrivqfdbshubdd,sqhsvrsfijomsrosqsejhriebisrtsvybsfiqjo.”
ss—_Nddrq’hsHrnvysQubijaq_.


ss“Vrstjtvcsayrhboshcdgyhsrtshgbajqdsorvb,sPbsvinhvsvybsjugrivqov
ssayqimb,svybsgbvvjarqv.sRtvsyqzbspbs orposvyqvshbzbo-trdestboabsvr
sstqjd,sVyr’shvnttbespjvysyrrghsqoesqiubespjvysijfhsrtspyqdb.”s—_Iqgb
ssrtsvybsDra _.



ss“Jtspbsarugqibsdqoesqojuqdhsjosibhgbavsvrsuqmojvneb,spjvysvyrhbsvyqv
ssvq bsngsvybjisqfrebsjosvybsebbg,spbshyqddstjoesvybcspjddsqggbqi
ssarovbugvjfdbsjosvybsarugqijhro.sVybspyqdbsjhsernfvdbhhsvybsdqimbhv
ssqojuqdsjosaibqvjro.”s—_Mrdehujvy,sOqv.sYjhv_.

ss“Jtscrnshyrndespijvbsqstqfdbstrisdjvvdbstjhybh,scrnsprndesuq bsvybu
sshgbq sdj bsmibqvspyqdbh.”s—_MrdehujvysvrsKryohro_.

ss“Josvybsqtvbiorrospbshqpspyqvspqhshnggrhbesvrsfbsqsira ,sfnvsjvspqh
sstrnoesvrsfbsqsebqespyqdb,spyjayshrubsQhjqvjahsyqes jddbe,sqoespbib
ssvybosvrpjomsqhyrib.sVybcshbbubesvrsboebqzrisvrsaroabqdsvybuhbdzbh
ssfbyjoesvybspyqdb,sjosriebisvrsqzrjesfbjomshbbosfcsnh.”s—_Arr ’h
ssZrcqmbh_.

ss“Vybsdqimbispyqdbh,svybcshbderuszbovnibsvrsqvvqa .sVybcshvqoesjoshr
ssmibqvseibqesrtshrubsrtsvybu,svyqvspybosrnvsqvshbqsvybcsqibsqtiqjesvr
ssubovjrosbzbosvybjisoqubh,sqoesaqiicsenom,sdjub-hvrob,sknojgbi-prre,
ssqoeshrubsrvybisqivjadbhsrtsvybshqubsoqvnibsjosvybjisfrqvh,sjosriebi
ssvrsvbiijtcsqoesgibzbovsvybjisvrrsobqisqggirqay.”s—_NorsZrosVirjd’h
ssDbvvbihsrosFqo h’hsqoesHrdqoebi’hsZrcqmbsvrsJabdqoesjo_s1772.

ss“VybsHgbiuqabvvjsPyqdbstrnoesfcsvybsOqovna rjh,sjhsqosqavjzb,stjbiab
ssqojuqd,sqoesiblnjibhszqhvsqeeibhhsqoesfrdeobhhsjosvybstjhybiubo.”
ss—_VyruqhsKbttbihro’hsPyqdbsUburijqdsvrsvybsTiboaysujojhvbisjo_s1778.

ss“Qoesgiqc,shji,spyqvsjosvybspridesjhsblnqdsvrsjv?”s—_BeunoesFni b’h
ssibtbiboabsjosGqidjqubovsvrsvybsOqovna bvsPyqdb-Tjhybic_.

ss“Hgqjo—qsmibqvspyqdbshviqoebesrosvybshyribhsrtsBnirgb.”s—_Beunoe
ssFni b_.s(_hrubpybib_.)

ss“Qsvbovysfiqoaysrtsvybs jom’hsriejoqicsibzbonb,shqjesvrsfbsmirnoebe
ssrosvybsarohjebiqvjrosrtsyjhsmnqiejomsqoesgirvbavjomsvybshbqhstiru
ssgjiqvbhsqoesirffbih,sjhsvybsijmyvsvrs_ircqd_stjhy,spyjaysqibspyqdb
ssqoeshvnimbro.sQoesvybhb,spybosbjvybisvyirposqhyribsrisaqnmyvsobqisvyb
ssarqhv,sqibsvybsgirgbivcsrtsvybs jom.”s—_Fdqa hvrob_.


ss“Hrrosvrsvybshgrivsrtsebqvysvybsaibphsibgqji:sIreuroesnobiijomsr’bi
ssyjhsybqeshnhgboehsVybsfqifbeshvbbd,sqoesbzbicsvniosqvvboeh.”
ss—_Tqdarobi’hsHyjgpiba _.

ss“Fijmyvshyrobsvybsirrth,svybserubh,svybshgjibh,sQoesira bvhsfdbpshbdt
sseijzbo,sVrsyqomsvybjisurubovqicstjibsQirnoesvybszqndvsrtsybqzbo.

ss“Hrstjibspjvyspqvbisvrsarugqib,sVybsrabqoshbizbhsrosyjmy,sNg-hgrnvbe
ssfcsqspyqdbsjosqji,sVrsbxgibhhsnopjbdecskrc.”s—_Arpgbi,srosvybsLnbbo’h
ssZjhjvsvrsDroero_.



ss“Vbosristjtvbbosmqddrohsrtsfdrresqibsvyirposrnvsrtsvybsybqivsqvsq
sshvir b,spjvysjuubohbszbdrajvc.”s—_KryosYnovbi’hsqaarnovsrtsvyb
ssejhhbavjrosrtsqspyqdb_.s(_Qshuqddshjwbesrob_.)

ss“Vybsqrivqsrtsqspyqdbsjhsdqimbisjosvybsfribsvyqosvybsuqjosgjgbsrtsvyb
sspqvbi-pri hsqvsDroerosFijemb,sqoesvybspqvbisirqijomsjosjvhsgqhhqmb
ssvyirnmysvyqvsgjgbsjhsjotbijrisjosjugbvnhsqoeszbdrajvcsvrsvybsfdrre
ssmnhyjomstirusvybspyqdb’hsybqiv.”s—_Gqdbc’hsVybrdrmc_.

ss“Vybspyqdbsjhsqsuquujtbirnhsqojuqdspjvyrnvsyjoestbbv.”s—_Fqiro
ssAnzjbi_.

ss“Jos40sebmibbhshrnvy,spbshqpsHgbiuqabvvjsPyqdbh,sfnvsejesorvsvq bsqoc
ssvjddsvybstjihvsrtsUqc,svybshbqsfbjomsvybosarzbibespjvysvybu.”
ss—_Ardobvv’hsZrcqmbstrisvybsGnigrhbsrtsBxvboejomsvybsHgbiuqabvjsPyqdb
ssTjhybic_.


ss“Josvybstibbsbdbubovsfbobqvysubshpqu,sTdrnoebibesqoesejzbe,sjosgdqc,
ssjosayqab,sjosfqvvdb,sTjhybhsrtsbzbicsardrni,striu,sqoes joe;sPyjay
ssdqomnqmbsaqoorvsgqjov,sqoesuqijobisYqesobzbishbbo;stiruseibqe
ssDbzjqvyqosVrsjohbavsujddjrohsgbrgdjomsbzbicspqzb:sMqvybi’esjoshyrqdh
ssjuubohb,sdj bstdrqvjomsjhdqoeh,sDbesfcsuchvbijrnhsjohvjoavhsvyirnmy
ssvyqvspqhvbsQoesviqa dbhhsibmjro,svyrnmysrosbzbicshjebsQhhqndvbesfc
sszriqajrnhsbobujbh,sPyqdbh,shyqi h,sqoesurohvbih,sqiu’esjostirovsri
sskqp,sPjvyshprieh,shqph,shgjiqdsyrioh,srisyrr bestqomh.”
ss—_Urovmrubic’hsPridesfbtribsvybsTdrre_.

ss“Jr!ssGqbqo!ssJr!shjom.sVrsvybstjoocsgbrgdb’hs jom.sOrvsqsujmyvjbi
sspyqdbsvyqosvyjhsJosvybszqhvsQvdqovjasjh;sOrvsqstqvvbistjhysvyqosyb,
ssTdrnoebihsirnoesvybsGrdqisHbq.”s—_AyqidbhsDquf’hsVijnugysrtsvyb
ssPyqdb_.



ss“Josvybscbqis1690shrubsgbihrohspbibsrosqsyjmysyjddsrfhbizjomsvyb
sspyqdbhshgrnvjomsqoeshgrivjomspjvysbqaysrvybi,spybosrobsrfhbizbe:
ssvybib—grjovjomsvrsvybshbq—jhsqsmibbosgqhvnibspybibsrnisayjdeibo’h
ssmiqoe-ayjdeibospjddsmrstrisfibqe.”s—_RfbesUqac’hsYjhvricsrt
ssOqovna bv_.

ss“JsfnjdvsqsarvvqmbstrisHnhqosqoesuchbdtsqoesuqebsqsmqvbpqcsjosvyb
sstriusrtsqsMrvyjasQiay,sfcshbvvjomsngsqspyqdb’hskqpsfrobh.”
ss—_Yqpvyriob’hsVpjabsVrdesVqdbh_.

ss“Hybsaqubsvrsfbhgbq sqsuronubovstrisybistjihvsdrzb,spyrsyqesfbbo
ss jddbesfcsqspyqdbsjosvybsGqajtjasrabqo,sorsdbhhsvyqostrivcscbqih
ssqmr.”s—_Jfje_.

ss“Or,sHji,s’vjhsqsIjmyvsPyqdb,”sqohpbibesVru;s“Jshqpsyjhshgirnv;syb
ssvyibpsngsqsgqjisrtsqhsgibvvcsiqjofrphsqhsqsAyijhvjqosprndespjhysvr
ssdrr sqv.sYb’hsqsiqqdsrjd-fnvv,svyqvstbddrp!”s—_Arrgbi’hsGjdrv_.

ss“Vybsgqgbihspbibsfirnmyvsjo,sqoespbshqpsjosvybsFbidjosMqwbvvbsvyqv
sspyqdbhsyqesfbbosjovirenabesrosvybshvqmbsvybib.”s—_Ba biuqoo’h
ssArozbihqvjrohspjvysMrbvyb_.

ss“UcsMre!sUi.sAyqab,spyqvsjhsvybsuqvvbi?”sJsqohpbibe,s“pbsyqzbsfbbo
sshvrzbsfcsqspyqdb.”s—“_OqiiqvjzbsrtsvybsHyjgpiba srtsvybsPyqdbsHyjg
ssBhhbxsrtsOqovna bv,spyjayspqhsqvvqa besqoestjoqddcsebhvircbesfcsq
ssdqimbsHgbiusPyqdbsjosvybsGqajtjasRabqo_.”s_FcsRpbosAyqabsrt
ssOqovna bv,stjihvsuqvbsrtshqjeszbhhbd.sObpsCri _,s1821.


ss“Qsuqijobishqvsjosvybshyirnehsrobsojmyv,sVybspjoespqhsgjgjomstibb;
ssOrpsfijmyv,sorpsejuube,spqhsvybsurrodjmyvsgqdb,sQoesvybsgyrhgybi
ssmdbqubesjosvybspq bsrtsvybspyqdb,sQhsjvstdrnoebibesjosvybshbq.”
ss—_BdjwqfbvysRq bhsHujvy_.



ss“Vybslnqovjvcsrtsdjobspjvyeiqpostirusvybsfrqvhsbomqmbesjosvybsaqgvnib
ssrtsvyjhsrobspyqdb,squrnovbesqdvrmbvybisvrs10,440scqiehsrisobqidcshjx
ssBomdjhysujdbh....

ss“Hrubvjubhsvybspyqdbshyq bhsjvhsvibuboernhsvqjdsjosvybsqji,spyjay,
ssaiqa jomsdj bsqspyjg,sibhrnoehsvrsvybsejhvqoabsrtsvyibbsristrni
ssujdbh.”s—_Haribhfc_.

ss“Uqespjvysvybsqmrojbhsybsboenibhstirusvybhbstibhysqvvqa h,svyb
ssjotnijqvbesHgbiusPyqdbsirddhsrzbisqoesrzbi;sybsibqihsyjhsboriurnh
ssybqe,sqoespjvyspjebsbxgqoebeskqphshoqghsqvsbzbicvyjomsqirnoesyju;syb
ssinhybhsqvsvybsfrqvhspjvysyjhsybqe;svybcsqibsgirgbddbesfbtribsyjuspjvy
sszqhvshpjtvobhh,sqoeshrubvjubhsnvvbidcsebhvircbe....sJvsjhsqsuqvvbisrt
ssmibqvsqhvrojhyubovsvyqvsvybsarohjebiqvjrosrtsvybsyqfjvhsrtshr
ssjovbibhvjom,sqoe,sjosqsaruubiajqdsgrjovsrtszjbp,shrsjugrivqovsqo
ssqojuqds(qhsvybsHgbiusPyqdb)shyrndesyqzbsfbboshrsbovjibdcsobmdbavbe,
ssrishyrndesyqzbsbxajvbeshrsdjvvdbsanijrhjvcsquromsvybsonubirnh,sqoe
ssuqocsrtsvybusarugbvbovsrfhbizbih,svyqvsrtsdqvbscbqih,sunhvsyqzb
ssgrhhbhhbesvybsurhvsqfnoeqovsqoesvybsurhvsarozbojbovsrggrivnojvjbhsrt
sspjvobhhjomsvybjisyqfjvnebh.”s—_VyruqhsFbqdb’hsYjhvricsrtsvybsHgbiu
ssPyqdb_,s1839.

ss“VybsAqayqdrv”s(HgbiusPyqdb)s“jhsorvsrodcsfbvvbisqiubesvyqosvybsVinb
ssPyqdb”s(MibbodqoesrisIjmyvsPyqdb)s“josgrhhbhhjomsqstriujeqfdbspbqgro
ssqvsbjvybisbxvibujvcsrtsjvhsfrec,sfnvsqdhrsuribstiblnbovdcsejhgdqchsq
ssejhgrhjvjrosvrsbugdrcsvybhbspbqgrohsrttbohjzbdcsqoesjosuqoobisqvsroab
sshrsqivtnd,sfrde,sqoesujhayjbzrnh,sqhsvrsdbqesvrsjvhsfbjomsibmqiebesqh
ssvybsurhvseqombirnhsvrsqvvqa srtsqddsvybs orposhgbajbhsrtsvybspyqdb
ssvijfb.”s—_Tibebija sEbfbddsFboobvv’hsPyqdjomsZrcqmbsIrnoesvybsMdrfb_,
ss1840.


ssRavrfbis13.ss“Vybibshybsfdrph,”spqhshnomsrnvstirusvybsuqhv-ybqe.
ss“Pybibsqpqc?”sebuqoebesvybsaqgvqjo.s“Vyibbsgrjovhsrttsvybsdbbsfrp,
sshji.”s“Iqjhbsngscrnispybbd.ssHvbqec!”ss“Hvbqec,shji.”s“Uqhv-ybqe
ssqyrc!sErscrnshbbsvyqvspyqdbsorp?”s“Qcsqc,shji!ssQshyrqdsrtsHgbiu
ssPyqdbh!sVybibshybsfdrph!ssVybibshybsfibqaybh!”s“Hjomsrnv!shjomsrnv
ssbzbicsvjub!”s“QcsQc,shji!ssVybibshybsfdrph!svybib—vybib—_vyqi_shyb
ssfdrph—frpbh—fr-r-rh!”s“Yrpstqisrtt?”s“Vprsujdbhsqoesqsyqdt.”s“Vynoebi
ssqoesdjmyvojom!shrsobqi!ssAqddsqddsyqoeh.”s—_K.sIrhhsFirpob’hsBvayjomh
ssrtsqsPyqdjomsAinjwb_.ss1846.



ss“VybsPyqdb-hyjgsMdrfb,srosfrqiesrtspyjayszbhhbdsraaniibesvybsyriije
ssviqohqavjrohspbsqibsqfrnvsvrsibdqvb,sfbdrombesvrsvybsjhdqoesrt
ssOqovna bv.”s—“_OqiiqvjzbsrtsvybsMdrfbsUnvjoc_,”s_fcsDqcsqoesYnhhbc
sshnizjzrih.sQ.E._s1828.

ssFbjomsroabsgnihnbesfcsqspyqdbspyjaysybsyqesprnoebe,sybsgqiijbesvyb
ssqhhqndvstrishrubsvjubspjvysqsdqoab;sfnvsvybstnijrnhsurohvbisqvsdbomvy
ssinhybesrosvybsfrqv;syjuhbdtsqoesaruiqebhsrodcsfbjomsgibhbizbesfc
ssdbqgjomsjovrsvybspqvbispybosvybcshqpsvybsrohbvspqhsjobzjvqfdb.”
ss—_UjhhjroqicsKrnioqdsrtsVcbiuqosqoesFboobvv_.

ss“Oqovna bvsjvhbdt,”shqjesUi.sPbfhvbi,s“jhsqszbicshvij jomsqoe
ssgbandjqisgrivjrosrtsvybsOqvjroqdsjovbibhv.sVybibsjhsqsgrgndqvjrosrt
ssbjmyvsrisojobsvyrnhqoesgbihrohsdjzjomsybibsjosvybshbq,sqeejomsdqimbdc
ssbzbicscbqisvrsvybsOqvjroqdspbqdvysfcsvybsfrdebhvsqoesurhvsgbihbzbijom
ssjoenhvic.”s—_IbgrivsrtsEqojbdsPbfhvbi’hsHgbbaysjosvybsN.sH.sHboqvb,
ssrosvybsqggdjaqvjrostrisvybsBibavjrosrtsqsFibq pqvbisqvsOqovna bv_.
ss1828.

ss“Vybspyqdbstbddsejibavdcsrzbisyju,sqoesgirfqfdcs jddbesyjusjosq
ssurubov.”s—“_VybsPyqdbsqoesyjhsAqgvrih,srisVybsPyqdbuqo’hsQezbovnibh
ssqoesvybsPyqdb’hsFjrmiqgyc,smqvybibesrosvybsYrubpqiesAinjhbsrtsvyb
ssAruureribsGibfdb_.”s_FcsIbz.sYboicsV.sAybbzbi_.

ss“Jtscrnsuq bsvybsdbqhvsequosfjvsrtsorjhb,”sibgdjbesHqunbd,s“Jspjdd
sshboescrnsvrsybdd.”s—_DjtbsrtsHqunbdsAruhvra _s(_vybsunvjobbi_),s_fc
ssyjhsfirvybi,sPjddjqusAruhvra .sQorvybisZbihjrosrtsvybspyqdb-hyjg
ssMdrfbsoqiiqvjzb_.

ss“VybszrcqmbhsrtsvybsEnvaysqoesBomdjhysvrsvybsOrivybiosRabqo,sjo
ssriebi,sjtsgrhhjfdb,svrsejharzbisqsgqhhqmbsvyirnmysjvsvrsJoejq,svyrnmy
ssvybcstqjdbesrtsvybjisuqjosrfkbav,sdqje-rgbosvybsyqnovhsrtsvybspyqdb.”
ss—_UaAnddray’hsAruubiajqdsEjavjroqic_.

ss“Vybhbsvyjomhsqibsibajgiraqd;svybsfqddsibfrnoeh,srodcsvrsfrnoe
sstripqiesqmqjo;strisorpsjosdqcjomsrgbosvybsyqnovhsrtsvybspyqdb,svyb
sspyqdbuboshbbusvrsyqzbsjoejibavdcsyjvsngrosobpsadbphsvrsvyqvshqub
ssuchvjasOrivy-PbhvsGqhhqmb.”s—_Tiru_s“_Hrubvyjom_”s_nognfdjhybe_.

ss“Jvsjhsjugrhhjfdbsvrsubbvsqspyqdb-hyjgsrosvybsrabqospjvyrnvsfbjom
sshvina sfcsybisobqisqggbqiqoab.sVybszbhhbdsnoebishyrivshqjd,spjvy
ssdrr -rnvhsqvsvybsuqhv-ybqeh,sbqmbidcshaqoojomsvybspjebsbxgqohbsqirnoe
ssvybu,syqhsqsvrvqddcsejttbibovsqjistirusvyrhbsbomqmbesjosibmndqi
sszrcqmb.”s—_AniibovhsqoesPyqdjom.sN.H.sBx.sBx_.

ss“GbebhvijqohsjosvybszjajojvcsrtsDroerosqoesbdhbpybibsuqcsibarddbav
ssyqzjomshbbosdqimbsanizbesfrobhshbvsngijmyvsjosvybsbqivy,sbjvybisvr
sstriusqiaybhsrzbismqvbpqch,srisboviqoabhsvrsqdarzbh,sqoesvybcsuqc
ssgbiyqghsyqzbsfbbosvrdesvyqvsvybhbspbibsvybsijfhsrtspyqdbh.”s—_Vqdbh
ssrtsqsPyqdbsZrcqmbisvrsvybsQiavjasRabqo_.

ss“Jvspqhsorvsvjddsvybsfrqvhsibvniobestirusvybsgnihnjvsrtsvybhbspyqdbh,
ssvyqvsvybspyjvbhshqpsvybjishyjgsjosfdrrecsgrhhbhhjrosrtsvybshqzqmbh
ssboirddbesquromsvybsaibp.”s—_ObphgqgbisQaarnovsrtsvybsVq jomsqoe
ssIbvq jomsrtsvybsPyqdb-HyjgsYrfruqa _.

ss“Jvsjhsmbobiqddcspbdds orposvyqvsrnvsrtsvybsaibphsrtsPyqdjomszbhhbdh
ss(Qubijaqo)stbpsbzbisibvniosjosvybshyjghsrosfrqiesrtspyjaysvybc
ssebgqivbe.”s—_AinjhbsjosqsPyqdbsFrqv_.

ss“Hneebodcsqsujmyvcsuqhhsbubimbestirusvybspqvbi,sqoeshyrvsng
ssgbigboejandqidcsjovrsvybsqji.sJvspqhsvybspyqdb.”s—_UjijqusArttjosri
ssvybsPyqdbsTjhybiuqo_.

ss“VybsPyqdbsjhsyqigrrobesvrsfbshnib;sfnvsfbvyjo scrn,syrpscrnsprnde
ssuqoqmbsqsgrpbitndsnofir bosardv,spjvysvybsubibsqggdjqoabsrtsqsirgb
ssvjbesvrsvybsirrvsrtsyjhsvqjd.”s—_QsAyqgvbisrosPyqdjomsjosIjfhsqoe
ssVina h_.

ss“RosrobsraaqhjrosJshqpsvprsrtsvybhbsurohvbihs(pyqdbh)sgirfqfdcsuqdb
ssqoestbuqdb,shdrpdcshpjuujom,srobsqtvbisvybsrvybi,spjvyjosdbhhsvyqosq
sshvrob’hsvyirpsrtsvybshyrib”s(VbiiqsEbdsTnbmr),s“rzbispyjaysvybsfbbay
ssvibbsbxvboebesjvhsfiqoaybh.”s—_Eqipjo’hsZrcqmbsrtsqsOqvniqdjhv_.

ss“‘Hvbiosqdd!’sbxadqjubesvybsuqvb,sqhsngrosvniojomsyjhsybqe,sybshqp
ssvybsejhvboebeskqphsrtsqsdqimbsHgbiusPyqdbsadrhbsvrsvybsybqesrtsvyb
ssfrqv,svyibqvbojomsjvspjvysjohvqovsebhvinavjro;—‘Hvbiosqdd,striscrni
ssdjzbh!’”s—_PyqivrosvybsPyqdbs jddbi_.

ss“Hrsfbsaybbic,sucsdqeh,sdbvscrnisybqivhsobzbistqjd,sPyjdbsvybsfrde
ssyqigrrobbisjhshvij jomsvybspyqdb!”s—_Oqovna bvsHrom_.


ss“Ry,svybsiqibsrdesPyqdb,sujeshvriusqoesmqdbsJosyjhsrabqosyrubspjddsfb
ssQsmjqovsjosujmyv,spybibsujmyvsjhsijmyv,sQoes jomsrtsvybsfrnoedbhh
sshbq.”s—_PyqdbsHrom_.





AYQGVBIs1.sDrrujomh.

AqddsubsJhyuqbd.sHrubscbqihsqmr—obzbisujoesyrpsdromsgibajhbdc—yqzjom
djvvdbsrisorsurobcsjosucsgnihb,sqoesorvyjomsgqivjandqisvrsjovbibhvsub
roshyrib,sJsvyrnmyvsJsprndeshqjdsqfrnvsqsdjvvdbsqoeshbbsvybspqvbicsgqiv
rtsvybspride.sJvsjhsqspqcsJsyqzbsrtseijzjomsrttsvybshgdbbosqoe
ibmndqvjomsvybsajiandqvjro.sPybobzbisJstjoesuchbdtsmirpjomsmijusqfrnv
vybsurnvy;spybobzbisjvsjhsqsequg,seijwwdcsOrzbufbisjosucshrnd;spybobzbi
Jstjoesuchbdtsjozrdnovqijdcsgqnhjomsfbtribsarttjospqibyrnhbh,sqoe
fijomjomsngsvybsibqisrtsbzbicstnobiqdsJsubbv;sqoesbhgbajqddcspybobzbi
ucsycgrhsmbvshnaysqosnggbisyqoesrtsub,svyqvsjvsiblnjibhsqshviromsuriqd
gijoajgdbsvrsgibzbovsubstirusebdjfbiqvbdcshvbggjomsjovrsvybshvibbv,sqoe
ubvyrejaqddcs ora jomsgbrgdb’hsyqvhsrtt—vybo,sJsqaarnovsjvsyjmysvjubsvr
mbvsvrshbqsqhshrrosqhsJsaqo.sVyjhsjhsucshnfhvjvnvbstrisgjhvrdsqoesfqdd.
PjvysqsgyjdrhrgyjaqdstdrnijhysAqvrsvyirphsyjuhbdtsngrosyjhshprie;sJ
lnjbvdcsvq bsvrsvybshyjg.sVybibsjhsorvyjomshnigijhjomsjosvyjh.sJtsvybc
fnvs obpsjv,sqdurhvsqddsubosjosvybjisebmibb,shrubsvjubsrisrvybi,
aybijhyszbicsobqidcsvybshqubstbbdjomhsvrpqiehsvybsrabqospjvysub.

VybibsorpsjhscrnisjohndqisajvcsrtsvybsUqoyqvvrbh,sfbdvbesirnoesfc
pyqizbhsqhsJoejqosjhdbhsfcsariqdsibbth—aruubiabshniirnoehsjvspjvysybi
hnit.sIjmyvsqoesdbtv,svybshvibbvhsvq bscrnspqvbipqie.sJvhsbxvibub
erpovrposjhsvybsfqvvbic,spybibsvyqvsorfdbsurdbsjhspqhybesfcspqzbh,sqoe
arrdbesfcsfibbwbh,spyjaysqstbpsyrnihsgibzjrnhspbibsrnvsrtshjmyvsrt
dqoe.sDrr sqvsvybsairpehsrtspqvbi-mqwbihsvybib.

AjianuqufndqvbsvybsajvcsrtsqseibqucsHqffqvysqtvbiorro.sMrstirusAridbqih
Yrr svrsArbovjbhsHdjg,sqoestirusvyboab,sfcsPyjvbyqdd,sorivypqie.sPyqv
erscrnshbb?—Grhvbesdj bshjdbovshbovjobdhsqddsqirnoesvybsvrpo,shvqoe
vyrnhqoehsngrosvyrnhqoehsrtsurivqdsubostjxbesjosrabqosibzbijbh.sHrub
dbqojomsqmqjohvsvybshgjdbh;shrubshbqvbesngrosvybsgjbi-ybqeh;shrub
drr jomsrzbisvybsfndpqi hsrtshyjghstirusAyjoq;shrubsyjmysqdrtvsjosvyb
ijmmjom,sqhsjtshvijzjomsvrsmbvsqshvjddsfbvvbishbqpqiesgbbg.sFnvsvybhb
qibsqddsdqoehubo;srtspbb seqchsgbovsngsjosdqvysqoesgdqhvbi—vjbesvr
arnovbih,soqjdbesvrsfboaybh,sadjoaybesvrsebh h.sYrpsvybosjhsvyjh?sQib
vybsmibbostjbdehsmrob?sPyqvsersvybcsybib?

Fnvsdrr !sybibsarubsuribsairpeh,sgqajomshviqjmyvstrisvybspqvbi,sqoe
hbbujomdcsfrnoestrisqsejzb.sHviqomb!sOrvyjomspjddsarovbovsvybusfnvsvyb
bxvibubhvsdjujvsrtsvybsdqoe;sdrjvbijomsnoebisvybshyqecsdbbsrtscroebi
pqibyrnhbhspjddsorvshnttjab.sOr.sVybcsunhvsmbvsknhvsqhsojmysvybspqvbi
qhsvybcsgrhhjfdcsaqospjvyrnvstqddjomsjo.sQoesvybibsvybcshvqoe—ujdbhsrt
vybu—dbqmnbh.sJodqoebihsqdd,svybcsarubstirusdqobhsqoesqddbch,shvibbvh
qoesqzbonbh—orivy,sbqhv,shrnvy,sqoespbhv.sCbvsybibsvybcsqddsnojvb.sVbdd
ub,serbhsvybsuqmobvjaszjivnbsrtsvybsobbedbhsrtsvybsarugqhhbhsrtsqdd
vyrhbshyjghsqvviqavsvybusvyjvybi?

Roabsurib.sHqcscrnsqibsjosvybsarnovic;sjoshrubsyjmysdqoesrtsdq bh.sVq b
qdurhvsqocsgqvyscrnsgdbqhb,sqoesvbosvrsrobsjvsaqiijbhscrnserposjosq
eqdb,sqoesdbqzbhscrnsvybibsfcsqsgrrdsjosvybshvibqu.sVybibsjhsuqmjasjo
jv.sDbvsvybsurhvsqfhbov-ujoebesrtsubosfbsgdnombesjosyjhsebbgbhv
ibzbijbh—hvqoesvyqvsuqosrosyjhsdbmh,shbvsyjhstbbvsq-mrjom,sqoesybspjdd
jotqddjfdcsdbqescrnsvrspqvbi,sjtspqvbisvybibsfbsjosqddsvyqvsibmjro.
HyrndescrnsbzbisfbsqvyjihvsjosvybsmibqvsQubijaqosebhbiv,svicsvyjh
bxgbijubov,sjtscrnisaqiqzqosyqggbosvrsfbshnggdjbespjvysqsubvqgychjaqd
girtbhhri.sCbh,sqhsbzbicsrobs orph,subejvqvjrosqoespqvbisqibspbeebestri
bzbi.

Fnvsybibsjhsqosqivjhv.sYbsebhjibhsvrsgqjovscrnsvybseibqujbhv,shyqejbhv,
lnjbvbhv,surhvsboayqovjomsfjvsrtsiruqovjasdqoehaqgbsjosqddsvybszqddbc
rtsvybsHqar.sPyqvsjhsvybsayjbtsbdbubovsybsbugdrch?sVybibshvqoesyjh
vibbh,sbqayspjvysqsyrddrpsvino ,sqhsjtsqsybiujvsqoesqsainajtjxspbib
pjvyjo;sqoesybibshdbbghsyjhsubqerp,sqoesvybibshdbbgsyjhsaqvvdb;sqoesng
tiruscroebisarvvqmbsmrbhsqshdbbgcshur b.sEbbgsjovrsejhvqovsprredqoeh
pjoehsqsuqwcspqc,sibqayjomsvrsrzbidqggjomshgnihsrtsurnovqjohsfqvybesjo
vybjisyjdd-hjebsfdnb.sFnvsvyrnmysvybsgjavnibsdjbhsvynhsviqoabe,sqoe
vyrnmysvyjhsgjob-vibbshyq bhserposjvhshjmyhsdj bsdbqzbhsngrosvyjh
hybgybie’hsybqe,scbvsqddspbibszqjo,snodbhhsvybshybgybie’hsbcbspbib
tjxbesngrosvybsuqmjashvibqusfbtribsyju.sMrszjhjvsvybsGiqjijbhsjosKnob,
pybostrisharibhsrosharibhsrtsujdbhscrnspqebs obb-ebbgsqurom
Vjmbi-djdjbh—pyqvsjhsvybsrobsayqiuspqovjom?—Pqvbi—vybibsjhsorvsqseirg
rtspqvbisvybib!sPbibsOjqmqiqsfnvsqsaqvqiqavsrtshqoe,sprndescrnsviqzbd
crnisvyrnhqoesujdbhsvrshbbsjv?sPycsejesvybsgrrisgrbvsrtsVboobhhbb,sngro
hneebodcsibabjzjomsvprsyqoetndhsrtshjdzbi,sebdjfbiqvbspybvybisvrsfnc
yjusqsarqv,spyjaysybshqedcsobbebe,srisjozbhvsyjhsurobcsjosqsgbebhvijqo
vijgsvrsIra qpqcsFbqay?sPycsjhsqdurhvsbzbicsirfnhvsybqdvycsfrcspjvysq
irfnhvsybqdvycshrndsjosyju,sqvshrubsvjubsrisrvybisaiqwcsvrsmrsvrshbq?
Pycsngroscrnistjihvszrcqmbsqhsqsgqhhbombi,sejescrnscrnihbdtstbbdshnaysq
uchvjaqdszjfiqvjro,spybostjihvsvrdesvyqvscrnsqoescrnishyjgspbibsorpsrnv
rtshjmyvsrtsdqoe?sPycsejesvybsrdesGbihjqohsyrdesvybshbqsyrdc?sPycseje
vybsMibb hsmjzbsjvsqshbgqiqvbsebjvc,sqoesrposfirvybisrtsKrzb?sHnibdc
qddsvyjhsjhsorvspjvyrnvsubqojom.sQoeshvjddsebbgbisvybsubqojomsrtsvyqv
hvricsrtsOqiajhhnh,spyrsfbaqnhbsybsarndesorvsmiqhgsvybsvriubovjom,sujde
juqmbsybshqpsjosvybstrnovqjo,sgdnombesjovrsjvsqoespqhseirpobe.sFnvsvyqv
hqubsjuqmb,spbsrnihbdzbhshbbsjosqddsijzbihsqoesrabqoh.sJvsjhsvybsjuqmb
rtsvybsnomiqhgqfdbsgyqovrusrtsdjtb;sqoesvyjhsjhsvybs bcsvrsjvsqdd.

Orp,spybosJshqcsvyqvsJsqusjosvybsyqfjvsrtsmrjomsvrshbqspybobzbisJsfbmjo
vrsmirpsyqwcsqfrnvsvybsbcbh,sqoesfbmjosvrsfbsrzbisarohajrnhsrtsuc
dnomh,sJsersorvsubqosvrsyqzbsjvsjotbiibesvyqvsJsbzbismrsvrshbqsqhsq
gqhhbombi.sTrisvrsmrsqhsqsgqhhbombiscrnsunhvsobbehsyqzbsqsgnihb,sqoesq
gnihbsjhsfnvsqsiqmsnodbhhscrnsyqzbshrubvyjomsjosjv.sFbhjebh,sgqhhbombih
mbvshbq-hja —mirpslnqiibdhrub—ero’vshdbbgsrtsojmyvh—ersorvsbokrc
vybuhbdzbhsunay,sqhsqsmbobiqdsvyjom;—or,sJsobzbismrsqhsqsgqhhbombi;
ori,svyrnmysJsqushrubvyjomsrtsqshqdv,sersJsbzbismrsvrshbqsqhsq
Aruurerib,srisqsAqgvqjo,srisqsArr .sJsqfqoerosvybsmdricsqoesejhvjoavjro
rtshnaysrttjabhsvrsvyrhbspyrsdj bsvybu.sTrisucsgqiv,sJsqfrujoqvbsqdd
yroriqfdbsibhgbavqfdbsvrjdh,svijqdh,sqoesvijfndqvjrohsrtsbzbics joe
pyqvhrbzbi.sJvsjhslnjvbsqhsunaysqhsJsaqosersvrsvq bsaqibsrtsuchbdt,
pjvyrnvsvq jomsaqibsrtshyjgh,sfqilnbh,sfijmh,shayrrobih,sqoespyqvsorv.
Qoesqhstrismrjomsqhsarr ,—vyrnmysJsarotbhhsvybibsjhsarohjebiqfdbsmdric
josvyqv,sqsarr sfbjomsqshrivsrtsrttjabisroshyjg-frqie—cbv,shrubyrp,sJ
obzbistqoajbesfirjdjomstrpdh;—vyrnmysroabsfirjdbe,sknejajrnhdc
fnvvbibe,sqoesknemuqvjaqddcshqdvbesqoesgbggbibe,svybibsjhsorsrobspyr
pjddshgbq suribsibhgbavtnddc,sorvsvrshqcsibzbibovjqddc,srtsqsfirjdbe
trpdsvyqosJspjdd.sJvsjhsrnvsrtsvybsjerdqvirnhservjomhsrtsvybsrde
Bmcgvjqohsngrosfirjdbesjfjhsqoesirqhvbesijzbisyrihb,svyqvscrnshbbsvyb
unuujbhsrtsvyrhbsaibqvnibhsjosvybjisynmbsfq b-yrnhbhsvybsgciqujeh.

Or,spybosJsmrsvrshbq,sJsmrsqhsqshjugdbshqjdri,sijmyvsfbtribsvybsuqhv,
gdnufserposjovrsvybstribaqhvdb,sqdrtvsvybibsvrsvybsircqdsuqhv-ybqe.
Vinb,svybcsiqvybisriebisubsqfrnvshrub,sqoesuq bsubsknugstirushgqisvr
hgqi,sdj bsqsmiqhhyrggbisjosqsUqcsubqerp.sQoesqvstjihv,svyjhshrivsrt
vyjomsjhsnogdbqhqovsbornmy.sJvsvrnaybhsrob’hshbohbsrtsyrori,
gqivjandqidcsjtscrnsarubsrtsqosrdesbhvqfdjhybestqujdcsjosvybsdqoe,svyb
ZqosIbohhbdqbih,srisIqoerdgyh,srisYqiejaqonvbh.sQoesuribsvyqosqdd,sjt
knhvsgibzjrnhsvrsgnvvjomscrnisyqoesjovrsvybsvqi-grv,scrnsyqzbsfbbo
driejomsjvsqhsqsarnovicshayrrduqhvbi,suq jomsvybsvqddbhvsfrchshvqoesjo
qpbsrtscrn.sVybsviqohjvjrosjhsqs bbosrob,sJsqhhnibscrn,stirusq
hayrrduqhvbisvrsqshqjdri,sqoesiblnjibhsqshviromsebaravjrosrtsHbobaqsqoe
vybsHvrjahsvrsboqfdbscrnsvrsmijosqoesfbqisjv.sFnvsbzbosvyjhspbqihsrtt
josvjub.

Pyqvsrtsjv,sjtshrubsrdesyno hsrtsqshbq-aqgvqjosriebihsubsvrsmbvsqsfirru
qoeshpbbgserposvybseba h?sPyqvserbhsvyqvsjoejmojvcsqurnovsvr,spbjmybe,
Jsubqo,sjosvybshaqdbhsrtsvybsObpsVbhvqubov?sErscrnsvyjo svybsqiayqombd
Mqfijbdsvyjo hsqocvyjomsvybsdbhhsrtsub,sfbaqnhbsJsgirugvdcsqoe
ibhgbavtnddcsrfbcsvyqvsrdesyno hsjosvyqvsgqivjandqisjohvqoab?sPyrsqjo’v
qshdqzb?sVbddsubsvyqv.sPbdd,svybo,syrpbzbisvybsrdeshbq-aqgvqjohsuqc
riebisubsqfrnv—yrpbzbisvybcsuqcsvynugsqoesgnoaysubsqfrnv,sJsyqzbsvyb
hqvjhtqavjrosrts orpjomsvyqvsjvsjhsqddsijmyv;svyqvsbzbicfrecsbdhbsjh
robspqcsrisrvybishbizbesjosunaysvybshqubspqc—bjvybisjosqsgychjaqdsri
ubvqgychjaqdsgrjovsrtszjbp,svyqvsjh;sqoeshrsvybsnojzbihqdsvynugsjh
gqhhbesirnoe,sqoesqddsyqoehshyrndesinfsbqaysrvybi’hshyrndebi-fdqebh,
qoesfbsarovbov.

Qmqjo,sJsqdpqchsmrsvrshbqsqhsqshqjdri,sfbaqnhbsvybcsuq bsqsgrjovsrt
gqcjomsubstrisucsvirnfdb,spybibqhsvybcsobzbisgqcsgqhhbombihsqshjomdb
gboocsvyqvsJsbzbisybqiesrt.sRosvybsaroviqic,sgqhhbombihsvybuhbdzbhsunhv
gqc.sQoesvybibsjhsqddsvybsejttbiboabsjosvybspridesfbvpbbosgqcjomsqoe
fbjomsgqje.sVybsqavsrtsgqcjomsjhsgbiyqghsvybsurhvsnoarutrivqfdb
jotdjavjrosvyqvsvybsvprsriayqiesvyjbzbhsbovqjdbesngrosnh.sFnvs_fbjom
gqje_,—pyqvspjddsarugqibspjvysjv?sVybsnifqobsqavjzjvcspjvyspyjaysqsuqo
ibabjzbhsurobcsjhsibqddcsuqizbddrnh,sarohjebijomsvyqvspbshrsbqiobhvdc
fbdjbzbsurobcsvrsfbsvybsirrvsrtsqddsbqivydcsjddh,sqoesvyqvsrosor
qaarnovsaqosqsurojbesuqosbovbisybqzbo.sQy!syrpsaybbitnddcspbsarohjmo
rnihbdzbhsvrsgbiejvjro!

Tjoqddc,sJsqdpqchsmrsvrshbqsqhsqshqjdri,sfbaqnhbsrtsvybspyrdbhrub
bxbiajhbsqoesgnibsqjisrtsvybstrib-aqhvdbseba .sTrisqhsjosvyjhspride,
ybqespjoehsqibstqisuribsgibzqdbovsvyqospjoehstirusqhvbios(vyqvsjh,sjt
crnsobzbiszjrdqvbsvybsGcvyqmribqosuqxju),shrstrisvybsurhvsgqivsvyb
Aruureribsrosvybslnqivbi-eba smbvhsyjhsqvurhgybibsqvshbaroesyqoestiru
vybshqjdrihsrosvybstribaqhvdb.sYbsvyjo hsybsfibqvybhsjvstjihv;sfnvsorv
hr.sJosunaysvybshqubspqcsersvybsaruuroqdvcsdbqesvybjisdbqebihsjosuqoc
rvybisvyjomh,sqvsvybshqubsvjubsvyqvsvybsdbqebihsdjvvdbshnhgbavsjv.sFnv
pybibtribsjvspqhsvyqvsqtvbisyqzjomsibgbqvbedcshubdvsvybshbqsqhsq
ubiayqovshqjdri,sJshyrndesorpsvq bsjvsjovrsucsybqesvrsmrsrosqspyqdjom
zrcqmb;svyjhsvybsjozjhjfdbsgrdjabsrttjabisrtsvybsTqvbh,spyrsyqhsvyb
arohvqovshnizbjddqoabsrtsub,sqoeshbaibvdcsermhsub,sqoesjotdnboabhsubsjo
hrubsnoqaarnovqfdbspqc—ybsaqosfbvvbisqohpbisvyqosqocsrobsbdhb.sQoe,
ernfvdbhh,sucsmrjomsrosvyjhspyqdjomszrcqmb,striubesgqivsrtsvybsmiqoe
girmiquubsrtsGirzjeboabsvyqvspqhseiqposngsqsdromsvjubsqmr.sJvsaqubsjo
qhsqshrivsrtsfijbtsjovbidnebsqoeshrdrsfbvpbbosuribsbxvbohjzb
gbitriuqoabh.sJsvq bsjvsvyqvsvyjhsgqivsrtsvybsfjddsunhvsyqzbsino
hrubvyjomsdj bsvyjh:

“_MiqoesArovbhvbesBdbavjrostrisvybsGibhjeboacsrtsvybsNojvbesHvqvbh._
“PYQDJOMsZRCQMBsFCsROBsJHYUQBD.s“FDRRECsFQVVDBsJOsQTTMYQOJHVQO.”

VyrnmysJsaqoorvsvbddspycsjvspqhsbxqavdcsvyqvsvyrhbshvqmbsuqoqmbih,svyb
Tqvbh,sgnvsubserpostrisvyjhshyqffcsgqivsrtsqspyqdjomszrcqmb,spybo
rvybihspbibshbvserpostrisuqmojtjabovsgqivhsjosyjmysviqmbejbh,sqoeshyriv
qoesbqhcsgqivhsjosmbovbbdsarubejbh,sqoeskrddcsgqivhsjostqiabh—vyrnmysJ
aqoorvsvbddspycsvyjhspqhsbxqavdc;scbv,sorpsvyqvsJsibaqddsqddsvyb
ajianuhvqoabh,sJsvyjo sJsaqoshbbsqsdjvvdbsjovrsvybshgijomhsqoesurvjzbh
pyjaysfbjomsanoojomdcsgibhbovbesvrsubsnoebiszqijrnhsejhmnjhbh,sjoenabe
ubsvrshbvsqfrnvsgbitriujomsvybsgqivsJseje,sfbhjebhsaqkrdjomsubsjovrsvyb
ebdnhjrosvyqvsjvspqhsqsayrjabsibhndvjomstirusucsrposnofjqhbestibbpjdd
qoesejhaijujoqvjomsknemubov.

Ayjbtsquromsvybhbsurvjzbhspqhsvybsrzbipybdujomsjebqsrtsvybsmibqvspyqdb
yjuhbdt.sHnaysqsgrivbovrnhsqoesuchvbijrnhsurohvbisirnhbesqddsuc
anijrhjvc.sVybosvybspjdesqoesejhvqovshbqhspybibsybsirddbesyjhsjhdqoe
fnd ;svybsnoebdjzbiqfdb,soqubdbhhsgbijdhsrtsvybspyqdb;svybhb,spjvysqdd
vybsqvvboejomsuqizbdhsrtsqsvyrnhqoesGqvqmrojqoshjmyvhsqoeshrnoeh,
ybdgbesvrshpqcsubsvrsucspjhy.sPjvysrvybisubo,sgbiyqgh,shnaysvyjomh
prndesorvsyqzbsfbbosjoenabubovh;sfnvsqhstrisub,sJsqusvriubovbespjvysqo
bzbidqhvjomsjvaystrisvyjomhsiburvb.sJsdrzbsvrshqjdstrifjeeboshbqh,sqoe
dqoesrosfqifqirnhsarqhvh.sOrvsjmorijomspyqvsjhsmrre,sJsquslnja svr
gbiabjzbsqsyriiri,sqoesarndeshvjddsfbshrajqdspjvysjv—prndesvybcsdbv
ub—hjoabsjvsjhsfnvspbddsvrsfbsrostijboedcsvbiuhspjvysqddsvybsjouqvbhsrt
vybsgdqabsrobsdrembhsjo.

Fcsibqhrosrtsvybhbsvyjomh,svybo,svybspyqdjomszrcqmbspqhspbdarub;svyb
mibqvstdrre-mqvbhsrtsvybsproebi-prideshpnomsrgbo,sqoesjosvybspjde
aroabjvhsvyqvshpqcbesubsvrsucsgnigrhb,svprsqoesvprsvybibstdrqvbesjovr
ucsjourhvshrnd,sboedbhhsgirabhhjrohsrtsvybspyqdb,sqoe,sujesurhvsrtsvybu
qdd,srobsmiqoesyrrebesgyqovru,sdj bsqshorpsyjddsjosvybsqji.


AYQGVBIs2.sVybsAqigbv-Fqm.

Jshvnttbesqshyjivsrisvprsjovrsucsrdesaqigbv-fqm,svna besjvsnoebisuc
qiu,sqoeshvqivbestrisAqgbsYriosqoesvybsGqajtja.sLnjvvjomsvybsmrresajvc
rtsrdesUqoyqvvr,sJsendcsqiijzbesjosObpsFbetrie.sJvspqhsqsHqvnieqcsojmyv
josEbabufbi.sUnayspqhsJsejhqggrjovbesngrosdbqiojomsvyqvsvybsdjvvdb
gqa bvstrisOqovna bvsyqesqdibqecshqjdbe,sqoesvyqvsorspqcsrtsibqayjom
vyqvsgdqabsprndesrttbi,svjddsvybstrddrpjomsUroeqc.

Qhsurhvscrnomsaqoejeqvbhstrisvybsgqjohsqoesgboqdvjbhsrtspyqdjomshvrgsqv
vyjhshqubsObpsFbetrie,svyboabsvrsbufqi srosvybjiszrcqmb,sjvsuqcsqhspbdd
fbsibdqvbesvyqvsJ,strisrob,syqesorsjebqsrtshrserjom.sTrisucsujoespqh
uqebsngsvrshqjdsjosorsrvybisvyqosqsOqovna bvsaiqtv,sfbaqnhbsvybibspqhsq
tjob,sfrjhvbirnhshrubvyjomsqfrnvsbzbicvyjomsaroobavbespjvysvyqvstqurnh
rdesjhdqoe,spyjaysquqwjomdcsgdbqhbesub.sFbhjebhsvyrnmysObpsFbetriesyqh
rtsdqvbsfbbosmiqenqddcsurorgrdjhjomsvybsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom,sqoesvyrnmy
josvyjhsuqvvbisgrrisrdesOqovna bvsjhsorpsunaysfbyjoesybi,scbvsOqovna bv
pqhsybismibqvsrijmjoqd—vybsVcibsrtsvyjhsAqivyqmb;—vybsgdqabspybibsvyb
tjihvsebqesQubijaqospyqdbspqhshviqoebe.sPybibsbdhbsfnvstirusOqovna bv
ejesvyrhbsqfrijmjoqdspyqdbubo,svybsIbe-Ubo,stjihvshqddcsrnvsjosaqorbh
vrsmjzbsayqhbsvrsvybsDbzjqvyqo?sQoespybibsfnvstirusOqovna bv,svrr,seje
vyqvstjihvsqezbovnirnhsdjvvdbshdrrgsgnvstrivy,sgqivdcsdqebospjvy
jugrivbesarffdbhvrobh—hrsmrbhsvybshvric—vrsvyirpsqvsvybspyqdbh,sjo
riebisvrsejharzbispybosvybcspbibsojmysbornmysvrsijh sqsyqigrrostirusvyb
frphgijv?

Orpsyqzjomsqsojmyv,sqseqc,sqoeshvjddsqorvybisojmyvstrddrpjomsfbtribsub
josObpsFbetrie,sbibsJsarndesbufqi strisucsebhvjobesgriv,sjvsfbaqubsq
uqvvbisrtsaroabioubovspybibsJspqhsvrsbqvsqoeshdbbgsubqopyjdb.sJvspqhsq
zbicsenfjrnh-drr jom,soqc,sqszbicseqi sqoesejhuqdsojmyv,sfjvjomdcsarde
qoesaybbidbhh.sJs obpsorsrobsjosvybsgdqab.sPjvysqoxjrnhsmiqgobdhsJsyqe
hrnoebesucsgra bv,sqoesrodcsfirnmyvsngsqstbpsgjbabhsrtshjdzbi,—Hr,
pybibzbiscrnsmr,sJhyuqbd,shqjesJsvrsuchbdt,sqhsJshvrresjosvybsujeedbsrt
qseibqicshvibbvshyrndebijomsucsfqm,sqoesarugqijomsvybsmdrrusvrpqiehsvyb
orivyspjvysvybseqi obhhsvrpqiehsvybshrnvy—pybibzbisjoscrnispjheruscrn
uqcsaroadnebsvrsdrembstrisvybsojmyv,sucsebqisJhyuqbd,sfbshnibsvr
jolnjibsvybsgijab,sqoesero’vsfbsvrrsgqivjandqi.

PjvysyqdvjomshvbghsJsgqabesvybshvibbvh,sqoesgqhhbesvybshjmosrts“Vyb
AirhhbesYqigrroh”—fnvsjvsdrr besvrrsbxgbohjzbsqoeskrddcsvybib.sTnivybi
ro,stirusvybsfijmyvsibespjoerphsrtsvybs“Hprie-TjhysJoo,”svybibsaqub
hnaystbizbovsiqch,svyqvsjvshbbubesvrsyqzbsubdvbesvybsgqa beshorpsqoe
jabstirusfbtribsvybsyrnhb,strisbzbicpybibsbdhbsvybsarombqdbestirhvsdqc
vbosjoaybhsvyja sjosqsyqie,sqhgyqdvjasgqzbubov,—iqvybispbqicstrisub,
pybosJshvina sucstrrvsqmqjohvsvybstdjovcsgirkbavjroh,sfbaqnhbstiru
yqie,siburihbdbhhshbizjabsvybshrdbhsrtsucsfrrvhspbibsjosqsurhv
ujhbiqfdbsgdjmyv.sVrrsbxgbohjzbsqoeskrddc,sqmqjosvyrnmyvsJ,sgqnhjomsrob
urubovsvrspqvaysvybsfirqesmdqibsjosvybshvibbv,sqoesybqisvybshrnoehsrt
vybsvjo djomsmdqhhbhspjvyjo.sFnvsmrsro,sJhyuqbd,shqjesJsqvsdqhv;sero’v
crnsybqi?smbvsqpqcstirusfbtribsvybserri;scrnisgqvaybesfrrvhsqib
hvrggjomsvybspqc.sHrsrosJspbov.sJsorpsfcsjohvjoavstrddrpbesvybshvibbvh
vyqvsvrr subspqvbipqie,strisvybib,sernfvdbhh,spbibsvybsaybqgbhv,sjtsorv
vybsaybbijbhvsjooh.

Hnayseibqicshvibbvh!sfdra hsrtsfdqa obhh,sorvsyrnhbh,srosbjvybisyqoe,
qoesybibsqoesvybibsqsaqoedb,sdj bsqsaqoedbsurzjomsqfrnvsjosqsvruf.sQv
vyjhsyrnisrtsvybsojmyv,srtsvybsdqhvseqcsrtsvybspbb ,svyqvslnqivbisrt
vybsvrposgirzbesqddsfnvsebhbivbe.sFnvsgibhbovdcsJsaqubsvrsqshur csdjmyv
girabbejomstirusqsdrp,spjebsfnjdejom,svybserrisrtspyjayshvrre
jozjvjomdcsrgbo.sJvsyqesqsaqibdbhhsdrr ,sqhsjtsjvspbibsubqovstrisvyb
nhbhsrtsvybsgnfdja;shr,sbovbijom,svybstjihvsvyjomsJsejespqhsvrshvnufdb
rzbisqosqhy-frxsjosvybsgriay.sYq!svyrnmyvsJ,syq,sqhsvybstdcjom
gqivjadbhsqdurhvsayr besub,sqibsvybhbsqhybhstirusvyqvsebhvircbesajvc,
Mruriiqy?sFnvs“VybsAirhhbesYqigrroh,”sqoes“VybsHprie-Tjhy?”—vyjh,svybo
unhvsobbehsfbsvybshjmosrts“VybsViqg.”sYrpbzbi,sJsgja besuchbdtsngsqoe
ybqijomsqsdrneszrjabspjvyjo,sgnhybesrosqoesrgbobesqshbaroe,sjovbijri
erri.

JvshbbubesvybsmibqvsFdqa sGqidjqubovshjvvjomsjosVrgybv.sQsynoeibesfdqa 
tqabhsvniobesirnoesjosvybjisirphsvrsgbbi;sqoesfbcroe,sqsfdqa sQombdsrt
Erruspqhsfbqvjomsqsfrr sjosqsgndgjv.sJvspqhsqsobmirsayniay;sqoesvyb
gibqaybi’hsvbxvspqhsqfrnvsvybsfdqa obhhsrtseqi obhh,sqoesvybspbbgjom
qoespqjdjomsqoesvbbvy-moqhyjomsvybib.sYq,sJhyuqbd,sunvvbibesJ,sfqa jom
rnv,sPibvaybesbovbivqjoubovsqvsvybshjmosrts‘VybsViqg!’

Urzjomsro,sJsqvsdqhvsaqubsvrsqsejushrivsrtsdjmyvsorvstqistirusvyb
era h,sqoesybqiesqstridriosaibq jomsjosvybsqji;sqoesdrr jomsng,shqpsq
hpjomjomshjmosrzbisvybserrispjvysqspyjvbsgqjovjomsngrosjv,stqjovdc
ibgibhbovjomsqsvqddshviqjmyvskbvsrtsujhvcshgiqc,sqoesvybhbsprieh
noebiobqvy—“VybsHgrnvbisJoo:—GbvbisArttjo.”

Arttjo?—Hgrnvbi?—Iqvybisrujornhsjosvyqvsgqivjandqisaroobxjro,svyrnmyv
J.sFnvsjvsjhsqsaruurosoqubsjosOqovna bv,svybcshqc,sqoesJshnggrhbsvyjh
Gbvbisybibsjhsqosbujmiqovstirusvybib.sQhsvybsdjmyvsdrr beshrseju,sqoe
vybsgdqab,strisvybsvjub,sdrr beslnjbvsbornmy,sqoesvybsejdqgjeqvbe
djvvdbsprrebosyrnhbsjvhbdtsdrr besqhsjtsjvsujmyvsyqzbsfbbosaqivbesybib
tirusvybsinjohsrtshrubsfniovsejhvijav,sqoesqhsvybshpjomjomshjmosyqesq
grzbivc-hvija boshrivsrtsaibq svrsjv,sJsvyrnmyvsvyqvsybibspqhsvybszbic
hgrvstrisaybqgsdremjomh,sqoesvybsfbhvsrtsgbqsarttbb.

Jvspqhsqslnbbishrivsrtsgdqab—qsmqfdb-boebesrdesyrnhb,srobshjebsgqdhjbe
qhsjvspbib,sqoesdbqojomsrzbishqedc.sJvshvrresrosqshyqigsfdbq sariobi,
pybibsvyqvsvbugbhvnrnhspjoesBniradceros bgvsngsqsprihbsyrpdjomsvyqo
bzbisjvsejesqfrnvsgrrisGqnd’hsvrhhbesaiqtv.sBniradcero,sobzbivybdbhh,
jhsqsujmyvcsgdbqhqovswbgycisvrsqocsrobsjo-errih,spjvysyjhstbbvsrosvyb
yrfslnjbvdcsvrqhvjomstrisfbe.s“Josknemjomsrtsvyqvsvbugbhvnrnhspjoe
aqddbesBniradcero,”shqchsqosrdespijvbi—rtspyrhbspri hsJsgrhhbhhsvyb
rodcsargcsbxvqov—“jvsuq bvysqsuqizbddrnhsejttbiboab,spybvybisvyrn
drr bhvsrnvsqvsjvstirusqsmdqhhspjoerpspybibsvybstirhvsjhsqddsrosvyb
rnvhjeb,srispybvybisvyrnsrfhbizbhvsjvstirusvyqvshqhydbhhspjoerp,spybib
vybstirhvsjhsrosfrvyshjebh,sqoesrtspyjaysvybspjmyvsEbqvysjhsvybsrodc
mdqwjbi.”sVinbsbornmy,svyrnmyvsJ,sqhsvyjhsgqhhqmbsraaniibesvrsuc
ujoe—rdesfdqa -dbvvbi,svyrnsibqhrobhvspbdd.sCbh,svybhbsbcbhsqib
pjoerph,sqoesvyjhsfrecsrtsujobsjhsvybsyrnhb.sPyqvsqsgjvcsvybcsejeo’v
hvrgsngsvybsayjo hsqoesvybsaiqoojbhsvyrnmy,sqoesvyinhvsjosqsdjvvdbsdjov
ybibsqoesvybib.sFnvsjv’hsvrrsdqvbsvrsuq bsqocsjugirzbubovhsorp.sVyb
nojzbihbsjhstjojhybe;svybsargbhvrobsjhsro,sqoesvybsayjghspbibsaqivbe
rttsqsujddjroscbqihsqmr.sGrrisDqwqinhsvybib,sayqvvbijomsyjhsvbbvy
qmqjohvsvybsanifhvrobstrisyjhsgjddrp,sqoeshyq jomsrttsyjhsvqvvbihspjvy
yjhshyjzbijomh,sybsujmyvsgdnmsngsfrvysbqihspjvysiqmh,sqoesgnvsq
ario-arfsjovrsyjhsurnvy,sqoescbvsvyqvsprndesorvs bbgsrnvsvyb
vbugbhvnrnhsBniradcero.sBniradcero!shqchsrdesEjzbh,sjosyjhsibeshjd bo
piqggbi—(ybsyqesqsibeebisrobsqtvbipqieh)sgrry,sgrry!sPyqvsqstjobstirhvc
ojmyv;syrpsRijrosmdjvvbih;spyqvsorivybiosdjmyvh!sDbvsvybusvqd srtsvybji
rijbovqdshnuubisadjubhsrtsbzbidqhvjomsarohbizqvrijbh;smjzbsubsvyb
gijzjdbmbsrtsuq jomsucsrposhnuubispjvysucsrposarqdh.

Fnvspyqvsvyjo hsDqwqinh?sAqosybspqiusyjhsfdnbsyqoehsfcsyrdejomsvybusng
vrsvybsmiqoesorivybiosdjmyvh?sPrndesorvsDqwqinhsiqvybisfbsjosHnuqviq
vyqosybib?sPrndesybsorvstqisiqvybisdqcsyjuserposdbomvypjhbsqdromsvyb
djobsrtsvybsblnqvri;scbq,scbsmreh!smrserposvrsvybstjbicsgjvsjvhbdt,sjo
riebisvrs bbgsrnvsvyjhstirhv?

Orp,svyqvsDqwqinhshyrndesdjbshviqoebesvybibsrosvybsanifhvrobsfbtribsvyb
errisrtsEjzbh,svyjhsjhsuribsproebitndsvyqosvyqvsqosjabfbimshyrndesfb
urribesvrsrobsrtsvybsUrdnaaqh.sCbvsEjzbhsyjuhbdt,sybsvrrsdjzbhsdj bsq
Awqisjosqosjabsgqdqabsuqebsrtstirwboshjmyh,sqoesfbjomsqsgibhjebovsrtsq
vbugbiqoabshrajbvc,sybsrodcseijo hsvybsvbgjesvbqihsrtsrigyqoh.

Fnvsorsuribsrtsvyjhsfdnffbijomsorp,spbsqibsmrjomsq-pyqdjom,sqoesvybib
jhsgdbovcsrtsvyqvscbvsvrsarub.sDbvsnhshaiqgbsvybsjabstirusrnistirhvbe
tbbv,sqoeshbbspyqvshrivsrtsqsgdqabsvyjhs“Hgrnvbi”suqcsfb.


AYQGVBIs3.sVybsHgrnvbi-Joo.

Bovbijomsvyqvsmqfdb-boebesHgrnvbi-Joo,scrnstrnoescrnihbdtsjosqspjeb,
drp,shviqmmdjomsbovicspjvysrde-tqhyjrobespqjoharvh,sibujoejomsrobsrt
vybsfndpqi hsrtshrubsaroebuobesrdesaiqtv.sRosrobshjebsynomsqszbicsdqimb
rjdgqjovjomshrsvyrirnmydcsfbhur be,sqoesbzbicspqcsebtqabe,svyqvsjosvyb
noblnqdsairhhdjmyvhsfcspyjayscrnszjbpbesjv,sjvspqhsrodcsfcsejdjmbov
hvnecsqoesqshbijbhsrtshchvbuqvjaszjhjvhsvrsjv,sqoesaqibtndsjolnjicsrt
vybsobjmyfrih,svyqvscrnsarndesqocspqcsqiijzbsqvsqosnoebihvqoejomsrtsjvh
gnigrhb.sHnaysnoqaarnovqfdbsuqhhbhsrtshyqebhsqoeshyqerph,svyqvsqvstjihv
crnsqdurhvsvyrnmyvshrubsqufjvjrnhscrnomsqivjhv,sjosvybsvjubsrtsvybsObp
Bomdqoesyqmh,syqesboebqzribesvrsebdjobqvbsayqrhsfbpjvaybe.sFnvsfcsejov
rtsunaysqoesbqiobhvsarovbugdqvjro,sqoesrtvsibgbqvbesgroebijomh,sqoe
bhgbajqddcsfcsvyirpjomsrgbosvybsdjvvdbspjoerpsvrpqiehsvybsfqa srtsvyb
bovic,scrnsqvsdqhvsarubsvrsvybsaroadnhjrosvyqvshnaysqosjebq,syrpbzbi
pjde,sujmyvsorvsfbsqdvrmbvybisnopqiiqovbe.

Fnvspyqvsurhvsgnwwdbesqoesarotrnoebescrnspqhsqsdrom,sdjufbi,
grivbovrnh,sfdqa suqhhsrtshrubvyjomsyrzbijomsjosvybsabovibsrtsvyb
gjavnibsrzbisvyibbsfdnb,seju,sgbigboejandqisdjobhstdrqvjomsjosq
oqubdbhhscbqhv.sQsfrmmc,shrmmc,shlnjvaycsgjavnibsvindc,sbornmysvrseijzb
qsobizrnhsuqosejhviqavbe.sCbvspqhsvybibsqshrivsrtsjoebtjojvb,
yqdt-qvvqjobe,snojuqmjoqfdbshnfdjujvcsqfrnvsjvsvyqvstqjidcstirwbscrnsvr
jv,svjddscrnsjozrdnovqijdcsvrr sqosrqvyspjvyscrnihbdtsvrstjoesrnvspyqv
vyqvsuqizbddrnhsgqjovjomsubqov.sBzbisqoesqorosqsfijmyv,sfnv,sqdqh,
ebabgvjzbsjebqsprndeseqivscrnsvyirnmy.—Jv’hsvybsFdqa sHbqsjosqsujeojmyv
mqdb.—Jv’hsvybsnooqvniqdsarufqvsrtsvybstrnisgijuqdsbdbubovh.—Jv’hsq
fdqhvbesybqvy.—Jv’hsqsYcgbifribqospjovbishabob.—Jv’hsvybsfibq jom-ngsrt
vybsjabfrnoeshvibqusrtsVjub.sFnvsqvsdqhvsqddsvybhbstqoajbhscjbdebesvr
vyqvsrobsgrivbovrnhshrubvyjomsjosvybsgjavnib’hsujehv.s_Vyqv_sroabstrnoe
rnv,sqoesqddsvybsibhvspbibsgdqjo.sFnvshvrg;serbhsjvsorvsfbqisqstqjov
ibhbufdqoabsvrsqsmjmqovjastjhy?sbzbosvybsmibqvsdbzjqvyqosyjuhbdt?

Jostqav,svybsqivjhv’hsebhjmoshbbubesvyjh:sqstjoqdsvybricsrtsucsrpo,
gqivdcsfqhbesngrosvybsqmmibmqvbesrgjojrohsrtsuqocsqmbesgbihrohspjvy
pyrusJsarozbihbesngrosvybshnfkbav.sVybsgjavnibsibgibhbovhsqsAqgb-Yriobi
josqsmibqvsyniijaqob;svybsyqdt-trnoebibeshyjgspbdvbijomsvybibspjvysjvh
vyibbsejhuqovdbesuqhvhsqdrobszjhjfdb;sqoesqosbxqhgbiqvbespyqdb,
gnigrhjomsvrshgijomsadbqosrzbisvybsaiqtv,sjhsjosvybsboriurnhsqavsrt
jugqdjomsyjuhbdtsngrosvybsvyibbsuqhv-ybqeh.

Vybsrggrhjvbspqddsrtsvyjhsbovicspqhsynomsqddsrzbispjvysqsybqvybojhy
qiiqcsrtsurohvirnhsadnfhsqoeshgbqih.sHrubspbibsvyja dcshbvspjvy
mdjvvbijomsvbbvysibhbufdjomsjzricshqph;srvybihspbibsvntvbespjvys orvh
rtsynuqosyqji;sqoesrobspqhshja db-hyqgbe,spjvysqszqhvsyqoedbshpbbgjom
irnoesdj bsvybshbmubovsuqebsjosvybsobp-urposmiqhhsfcsqsdrom-qiube
urpbi.sCrnshyneebibesqhscrnsmqwbe,sqoesproebibespyqvsurohvirnhsaqoojfqd
qoeshqzqmbsarndesbzbisyqzbsmrobsqsebqvy-yqizbhvjomspjvyshnaysqsyqa jom,
yriijtcjomsjugdbubov.sUjxbespjvysvybhbspbibsinhvcsrdespyqdjomsdqoabh
qoesyqigrrohsqddsfir bosqoesebtriube.sHrubspbibshvrijbespbqgroh.sPjvy
vyjhsroabsdromsdqoab,sorpspjdedcsbdfrpbe,stjtvcscbqihsqmrsejesOqvyqo
Hpqjos jddstjtvbbospyqdbhsfbvpbbosqshnoijhbsqoesqshnohbv.sQoesvyqv
yqigrro—hrsdj bsqsari haibpsorp—pqhstdnomsjosKqzqoshbqh,sqoesinosqpqc
pjvysfcsqspyqdb,scbqihsqtvbipqiehshdqjosrttsvybsAqgbsrtsFdqoar.sVyb
rijmjoqdsjirosbovbibesojmysvybsvqjd,sqoe,sdj bsqsibhvdbhhsobbedb
hrkrniojomsjosvybsfrecsrtsqsuqo,sviqzbddbestnddstrivcstbbv,sqoesqvsdqhv
pqhstrnoesjufbeebesjosvybsynug.

Airhhjomsvyjhsenh csbovic,sqoesrosvyirnmyscrosdrp-qiaybespqc—anv
vyirnmyspyqvsjosrdesvjubhsunhvsyqzbsfbbosqsmibqvsaboviqdsayjuobcspjvy
tjibgdqabhsqddsirnoe—crnsbovbisvybsgnfdjasirru.sQshvjddsenh jbisgdqab
jhsvyjh,spjvyshnaysdrpsgroebirnhsfbquhsqfrzb,sqoeshnaysrdespijo dbe
gdqo hsfbobqvy,svyqvscrnsprndesqdurhvstqoacscrnsvireshrubsrdesaiqtv’h
ara gjvh,sbhgbajqddcsrtshnaysqsyrpdjomsojmyv,spybosvyjhsariobi-qoayribe
rdesqi sira beshrstnijrnhdc.sRosrobshjebshvrresqsdrom,sdrp,shybdt-dj b
vqfdbsarzbibespjvysaiqa besmdqhhsaqhbh,stjddbespjvysenhvcsiqijvjbh
mqvybibestirusvyjhspjebspride’hsiburvbhvsorr h.sGirkbavjomstirusvyb
tnivybisqomdbsrtsvybsirrushvqoehsqseqi -drr jomsebo—vybsfqi—qsineb
qvvbugvsqvsqsijmyvspyqdb’hsybqe.sFbsvyqvsyrpsjvsuqc,svybibshvqoehsvyb
zqhvsqiaybesfrobsrtsvybspyqdb’hskqp,shrspjeb,sqsarqaysujmyvsqdurhv
eijzbsfbobqvysjv.sPjvyjosqibshyqffcshybdzbh,siqombesirnoespjvysrde
ebaqovbih,sfrvvdbh,stdqh h;sqoesjosvyrhbskqphsrtshpjtvsebhvinavjro,
dj bsqorvybisanihbesKroqys(fcspyjaysoqubsjoebbesvybcsaqddbesyju),
fnhvdbhsqsdjvvdbspjvybibesrdesuqo,spyr,strisvybjisurobc,sebqidcshbddh
vybshqjdrihsebdjijnuhsqoesebqvy.

Qfrujoqfdbsqibsvybsvnufdbihsjovrspyjaysybsgrnihsyjhsgrjhro.sVyrnmysvinb
acdjoebihspjvyrnv—pjvyjo,svybszjddqornhsmibbosmrmmdjomsmdqhhbh
ebabjvtnddcsvqgbibeserpopqiehsvrsqsaybqvjomsfrvvru.sGqiqddbdsubijejqoh
inebdcsgba besjovrsvybsmdqhh,shniirnoesvybhbstrrvgqeh’smrfdbvh.sTjddsvr
_vyjh_suqi ,sqoescrnisayqimbsjhsfnvsqsgbooc;svrs_vyjh_sqsgboocsurib;
qoeshrsrosvrsvybstnddsmdqhh—vybsAqgbsYriosubqhnib,spyjayscrnsuqcsmndg
erpostrisqshyjddjom.

NgrosbovbijomsvybsgdqabsJstrnoesqsonufbisrtscrnomshbqubosmqvybibesqfrnv
qsvqfdb,sbxqujojomsfcsqsejusdjmyvsejzbihshgbajubohsrts_h ijuhyqoebi_.sJ
hrnmyvsvybsdqoedrie,sqoesvbddjomsyjusJsebhjibesvrsfbsqaaruureqvbespjvy
qsirru,sibabjzbestrisqohpbisvyqvsyjhsyrnhbspqhstndd—orvsqsfbe
noraangjbe.s“Fnvsqzqhv,”sybsqeebe,svqggjomsyjhstribybqe,s“crnsyqjovsor
rfkbavjrohsvrshyqijomsqsyqigrrobbi’hsfdqo bv,syqzbscb?sJsh’grhbscrnsqib
mrjo’sq-pyqdjo’,shrscrn’esfbvvbismbvsnhbesvrsvyqvshrivsrtsvyjom.”

JsvrdesyjusvyqvsJsobzbisdj besvrshdbbgsvprsjosqsfbe;svyqvsjtsJshyrnde
bzbisershr,sjvsprndesebgboesngrospyrsvybsyqigrrobbisujmyvsfb,sqoesvyqv
jtsybs(vybsdqoedrie)sibqddcsyqesorsrvybisgdqabstrisub,sqoesvyb
yqigrrobbispqhsorvsebajebedcsrfkbavjroqfdb,spycsiqvybisvyqospqoebi
tnivybisqfrnvsqshviqombsvrposroshrsfjvvbisqsojmyv,sJsprndesgnvsngspjvy
vybsyqdtsrtsqocsebabovsuqo’hsfdqo bv.

“Jsvyrnmyvshr.sQddsijmyv;svq bsqshbqv.sHnggbi?—crnspqovshnggbi?
Hnggbi’ddsfbsibqecsejibavdc.”

Jshqvserposrosqosrdesprreboshbvvdb,saqizbesqddsrzbisdj bsqsfboaysrosvyb
Fqvvbic.sQvsrobsboesqsinujoqvjomsvqispqhshvjddstnivybisqeriojomsjvspjvy
yjhskqa - ojtb,shvrrgjomsrzbisqoesejdjmbovdcspri jomsqpqcsqvsvybshgqab
fbvpbbosyjhsdbmh.sYbspqhsvicjomsyjhsyqoesqvsqshyjgsnoebistnddshqjd,sfnv
ybsejeo’vsuq bsunaysybqepqc,sJsvyrnmyv.

Qvsdqhvshrubstrnisristjzbsrtsnhspbibshnuurobesvrsrnisubqdsjosqo
qekrjojomsirru.sJvspqhsardesqhsJabdqoe—orstjibsqvsqdd—vybsdqoedrieshqje
ybsarndeo’vsqttriesjv.sOrvyjomsfnvsvprsejhuqdsvqddrpsaqoedbh,sbqaysjosq
pjoejomshybbv.sPbspbibstqjosvrsfnvvrosngsrnisuro bcskqa bvh,sqoesyrde
vrsrnisdjghsanghsrtshaqdejomsvbqspjvysrnisyqdtstirwbostjombih.sFnvsvyb
tqibspqhsrtsvybsurhvshnfhvqovjqds joe—orvsrodcsubqvsqoesgrvqvrbh,sfnv
enugdjomh;smrresybqzboh!senugdjomhstrishnggbi!sRobscrnomstbddrpsjosq
mibbosfrxsarqv,sqeeibhhbesyjuhbdtsvrsvybhbsenugdjomhsjosqsurhvsejibtnd
uqoobi.

“Ucsfrc,”shqjesvybsdqoedrie,s“crn’ddsyqzbsvybsojmyvuqibsvrsqsebqe
hqivqjovc.”

“Dqoedrie,”sJspyjhgbibe,s“vyqvsqjovsvybsyqigrrobbisjhsjv?”

“Ry,sor,”shqjesyb,sdrr jomsqshrivsrtsejqfrdjaqddcstnooc,s“vyb
yqigrrobbisjhsqseqi sarugdbxjrobesayqg.sYbsobzbisbqvhsenugdjomh,syb
ero’v—ybsbqvhsorvyjomsfnvshvbq h,sqoesybsdj bhs’busiqib.”

“Vybsebzjdsybserbh,”shqchsJ.s“Pybibsjhsvyqvsyqigrrobbi?sJhsybsybib?”

“Yb’ddsfbsybibsqtribsdrom,”spqhsvybsqohpbi.

Jsarndesorvsybdgsjv,sfnvsJsfbmqosvrstbbdshnhgjajrnhsrtsvyjhs“eqi 
arugdbxjrobe”syqigrrobbi.sQvsqocsiqvb,sJsuqebsngsucsujoesvyqvsjtsjvshr
vniobesrnvsvyqvspbshyrndeshdbbgsvrmbvybi,sybsunhvsnoeibhhsqoesmbvsjovr
fbesfbtribsJseje.

Hnggbisrzbi,svybsarugqocspbovsfqa svrsvybsfqi-irru,spybo,s orpjomsorv
pyqvsbdhbsvrserspjvysuchbdt,sJsibhrdzbesvrshgboesvybsibhvsrtsvyb
bzbojomsqhsqsdrr bisro.

Gibhbovdcsqsijrvjomsorjhbspqhsybqiespjvyrnv.sHvqivjomsng,svybsdqoedrie
aijbe,s“Vyqv’hsvybsMiqugnh’hsaibp.sJshbbesybisibgrivbesjosvybsrttjom
vyjhsuriojom;sqsvyibbscbqih’szrcqmb,sqoesqstnddshyjg.sYniiqy,sfrch;sorp
pb’ddsyqzbsvybsdqvbhvsobphstirusvybsTbbmbbh.”

Qsviqugjomsrtshbqsfrrvhspqhsybqiesjosvybsbovic;svybserrispqhstdnom
rgbo,sqoesjosirddbesqspjdeshbvsrtsuqijobihsbornmy.sBozbdrgbesjosvybji
hyqmmcspqvaysarqvh,sqoespjvysvybjisybqehsunttdbesjosprrddbosarutrivbih,
qddsfbeqiobesqoesiqmmbe,sqoesvybjisfbqiehshvjttspjvysjajadbh,svybc
hbbubesqosbingvjrosrtsfbqihstirusDqfiqeri.sVybcsyqesknhvsdqoebestiru
vybjisfrqv,sqoesvyjhspqhsvybstjihvsyrnhbsvybcsbovbibe.sOrsproebi,svybo,
vyqvsvybcsuqebsqshviqjmyvspq bstrisvybspyqdb’hsurnvy—vybsfqi—pybosvyb
pijo dbesdjvvdbsrdesKroqy,svybibsrttjajqvjom,shrrosgrnibesvybusrnv
fijuubihsqddsirnoe.sRobsarugdqjobesrtsqsfqesardesjosyjhsybqe,sngro
pyjaysKroqysujxbesyjusqsgjvay-dj bsgrvjrosrtsmjosqoesurdqhhbh,spyjaysyb
hpribspqhsqshrzbibjmosanibstrisqddsardehsqoesaqvqiiyhspyqvhrbzbi,sobzbi
ujoesrtsyrpsdromshvqoejom,srispybvybisaqnmyvsrttsvybsarqhvsrtsDqfiqeri,
risrosvybspbqvybishjebsrtsqosjab-jhdqoe.

Vybsdjlnrishrrosurnovbesjovrsvybjisybqeh,sqhsjvsmbobiqddcserbhsbzbo
pjvysvybsqiiqovbhvsvrgbihsobpdcsdqoebestirushbq,sqoesvybcsfbmqo
aqgbijomsqfrnvsurhvsrfhvibgbirnhdc.

Jsrfhbizbe,syrpbzbi,svyqvsrobsrtsvybusybdeshrubpyqvsqdrrt,sqoesvyrnmy
ybshbbubesebhjirnhsorvsvrshgrjdsvybsyjdqijvcsrtsyjhshyjguqvbhsfcsyjh
rposhrfbistqab,scbvsngrosvybspyrdbsybsibtiqjobestirusuq jomsqhsunay
orjhbsqhsvybsibhv.sVyjhsuqosjovbibhvbesubsqvsroab;sqoeshjoabsvyb
hbq-mrehsyqesrieqjobesvyqvsybshyrndeshrrosfbarubsucshyjguqvbs(vyrnmy
fnvsqshdbbgjom-gqivobisrob,shrstqisqhsvyjhsoqiiqvjzbsjhsaroabiobe),sJ
pjddsybibszbovnibsngrosqsdjvvdbsebhaijgvjrosrtsyju.sYbshvrrestnddshjx
tbbvsjosybjmyv,spjvysorfdbshyrndebih,sqoesqsaybhvsdj bsqsarttbi-equ.sJ
yqzbshbderushbboshnaysfiqposjosqsuqo.sYjhstqabspqhsebbgdcsfirposqoe
fniov,suq jomsyjhspyjvbsvbbvyseqwwdjomsfcsvybsaroviqhv;spyjdbsjosvyb
ebbgshyqerphsrtsyjhsbcbhstdrqvbeshrubsibujojhaboabhsvyqvsejesorvshbbu
vrsmjzbsyjusunayskrc.sYjhszrjabsqvsroabsqoornoabesvyqvsybspqhsq
Hrnvybiobi,sqoestirusyjhstjobshvqvnib,sJsvyrnmyvsybsunhvsfbsrobsrt
vyrhbsvqddsurnovqjobbihstirusvybsQddbmyqojqosIjembsjosZjimjojq.sPybo
vybsibzbdicsrtsyjhsarugqojrohsyqesurnovbesvrsjvhsybjmyv,svyjhsuqo
hdjggbesqpqcsnorfhbizbe,sqoesJshqpsorsuribsrtsyjusvjddsybsfbaqubsuc
aruiqebsrosvybshbq.sJosqstbpsujonvbh,syrpbzbi,sybspqhsujhhbesfcsyjh
hyjguqvbh,sqoesfbjom,sjvshbbuh,strishrubsibqhrosqsynmbstqzrnijvbspjvy
vybu,svybcsiqjhbesqsaicsrts“Fnd jomvro!sFnd jomvro!spybib’h
Fnd jomvro?”sqoeseqivbesrnvsrtsvybsyrnhbsjosgnihnjvsrtsyju.

Jvspqhsorpsqfrnvsojobsr’adra ,sqoesvybsirrushbbujomsqdurhv
hngbioqvniqddcslnjbvsqtvbisvybhbsrimjbh,sJsfbmqosvrsaromiqvndqvbsuchbdt
ngrosqsdjvvdbsgdqosvyqvsyqesraaniibesvrsubsknhvsgibzjrnhsvrsvyb
boviqoabsrtsvybshbqubo.

Orsuqosgibtbihsvrshdbbgsvprsjosqsfbe.sJostqav,scrnsprndesqsmrresebqd
iqvybisorvshdbbgspjvyscrnisrposfirvybi.sJsero’vs orpsyrpsjvsjh,sfnv
gbrgdbsdj bsvrsfbsgijzqvbspybosvybcsqibshdbbgjom.sQoespybosjvsarubhsvr
hdbbgjomspjvysqosno orposhviqombi,sjosqshviqombsjoo,sjosqshviqombsvrpo,
qoesvyqvshviqombisqsyqigrrobbi,svyboscrnisrfkbavjrohsjoebtjojvbdc
undvjgdc.sOrispqhsvybibsqocsbqivydcsibqhrospycsJsqhsqshqjdrishyrnde
hdbbgsvprsjosqsfbe,suribsvyqosqocfrecsbdhb;strishqjdrihsorsuribshdbbg
vprsjosqsfbesqvshbq,svyqosfqaybdris jomhsersqhyrib.sVrsfbshnibsvybcsqdd
hdbbgsvrmbvybisjosrobsqgqivubov,sfnvscrnsyqzbscrnisrposyquura ,sqoe
arzbiscrnihbdtspjvyscrnisrposfdqo bv,sqoeshdbbgsjoscrnisrposh jo.

VybsuribsJsgroebibesrzbisvyjhsyqigrrobbi,svybsuribsJsqfrujoqvbesvyb
vyrnmyvsrtshdbbgjomspjvysyju.sJvspqhstqjisvrsgibhnubsvyqvsfbjomsq
yqigrrobbi,syjhsdjobosrisprrddbo,sqhsvybsaqhbsujmyvsfb,sprndesorvsfbsrt
vybsvjejbhv,sabivqjodcsorobsrtsvybstjobhv.sJsfbmqosvrsvpjvaysqddsrzbi.
Fbhjebh,sjvspqhsmbvvjomsdqvb,sqoesucsebabovsyqigrrobbisrnmyvsvrsfbsyrub
qoesmrjomsfbepqieh.sHnggrhbsorp,sybshyrndesvnufdbsjosngrosubsqv
ujeojmyv—yrpsarndesJsvbddstiruspyqvszjdbsyrdbsybsyqesfbbosarujom?

“Dqoedrie!sJ’zbsayqombesucsujoesqfrnvsvyqvsyqigrrobbi.—Jshyqo’vshdbbg
pjvysyju.sJ’ddsvicsvybsfboaysybib.”

“Knhvsqhscrnsgdbqhb;sJ’ushriicsJsaqo’vshgqibscbsqsvqfdbadrvystrisq
uqvvibhh,sqoesjv’hsqsgdqmncsirnmysfrqiesybib”—tbbdjomsrtsvybs orvhsqoe
orvaybh.s“Fnvspqjvsqsfjv,sH ijuhyqoebi;sJ’zbsmrvsqsaqigbovbi’hsgdqob
vybibsjosvybsfqi—pqjv,sJshqc,sqoesJ’ddsuq bscbshonmsbornmy.”sHrshqcjom
ybsgiranibesvybsgdqob;sqoespjvysyjhsrdeshjd syqoe biayjbtstjihvsenhvjom
vybsfboay,szjmrirnhdcshbvsvrsgdqojomsqpqcsqvsucsfbe,svybspyjdbsmijoojom
dj bsqosqgb.sVybshyqzjomhstdbpsijmyvsqoesdbtv;svjddsqvsdqhvsvyb
gdqob-jirosaqubsfnugsqmqjohvsqosjoebhvinavjfdbs orv.sVybsdqoedriespqh
obqishgiqjojomsyjhspijhv,sqoesJsvrdesyjustrisybqzbo’hshq bsvrslnjv—vyb
fbespqhshrtvsbornmysvrshnjvsub,sqoesJsejesorvs orpsyrpsqddsvybsgdqojom
josvybspridesarndesuq bsbjebiserposrtsqsgjobsgdqo .sHrsmqvybijomsngsvyb
hyqzjomhspjvysqorvybismijo,sqoesvyirpjomsvybusjovrsvybsmibqvshvrzbsjo
vybsujeedbsrtsvybsirru,sybspbovsqfrnvsyjhsfnhjobhh,sqoesdbtvsubsjosq
firposhvnec.

Jsorpsvrr svybsubqhnibsrtsvybsfboay,sqoestrnoesvyqvsjvspqhsqstrrvsvrr
hyriv;sfnvsvyqvsarndesfbsuboebespjvysqsayqji.sFnvsjvspqhsqstrrvsvrr
oqiirp,sqoesvybsrvybisfboaysjosvybsirruspqhsqfrnvstrnisjoaybhsyjmybi
vyqosvybsgdqobesrob—hrsvybibspqhsorscr jomsvybu.sJsvybosgdqabesvyb
tjihvsfboaysdbomvypjhbsqdromsvybsrodcsadbqishgqabsqmqjohvsvybspqdd,
dbqzjomsqsdjvvdbsjovbizqdsfbvpbbo,strisucsfqa svrshbvvdbserposjo.sFnvsJ
hrrostrnoesvyqvsvybibsaqubshnaysqseiqnmyvsrtsardesqjisrzbisubstiru
noebisvybshjddsrtsvybspjoerp,svyqvsvyjhsgdqosprndesobzbisersqvsqdd,
bhgbajqddcsqhsqorvybisaniibovstirusvybsija bvcserrisubvsvybsrobstiru
vybspjoerp,sqoesfrvysvrmbvybistriubesqshbijbhsrtshuqddspyjidpjoehsjo
vybsjuubejqvbszjajojvcsrtsvybshgrvspybibsJsyqesvyrnmyvsvrshgboesvyb
ojmyv.

Vybsebzjdstbvaysvyqvsyqigrrobbi,svyrnmyvsJ,sfnvshvrg,sarndeo’vsJshvbqd
qsuqiaysrosyju—frdvsyjhserrisjohjeb,sqoesknugsjovrsyjhsfbe,sorvsvrsfb
pq bobesfcsvybsurhvszjrdbovs ora jomh?sJvshbbubesorsfqesjebq;sfnvsngro
hbaroesvyrnmyvhsJsejhujhhbesjv.sTrispyrsarndesvbddsfnvspyqvsvybsobxv
uriojom,shrshrrosqhsJsgrggbesrnvsrtsvybsirru,svybsyqigrrobbisujmyvsfb
hvqoejomsjosvybsbovic,sqddsibqecsvrs ora subserpo!

Hvjdd,sdrr jomsirnoesubsqmqjo,sqoeshbbjomsorsgrhhjfdbsayqoabsrt
hgboejomsqshnttbiqfdbsojmyvsnodbhhsjoshrubsrvybisgbihro’hsfbe,sJsfbmqo
vrsvyjo svyqvsqtvbisqddsJsujmyvsfbsaybijhyjomsnopqiiqovqfdbsgibknejabh
qmqjohvsvyjhsno orposyqigrrobbi.sVyjo hsJ,sJ’ddspqjvsqpyjdb;sybsunhvsfb
eirggjomsjosfbtribsdrom.sJ’ddsyqzbsqsmrresdrr sqvsyjusvybo,sqoesgbiyqgh
pbsuqcsfbarubskrddcsmrresfbetbddrphsqtvbisqdd—vybib’hsorsvbddjom.

Fnvsvyrnmysvybsrvybisfrqiebihs bgvsarujomsjosfcsrobh,svprh,sqoesvyibbh,
qoesmrjomsvrsfbe,scbvsorshjmosrtsucsyqigrrobbi.

“Dqoedrie!”shqjesJ,s“pyqvshrivsrtsqsayqgsjhsyb—erbhsybsqdpqchs bbgshnay
dqvbsyrnih?”sJvspqhsorpsyqiesngrosvpbdzbsr’adra .

Vybsdqoedriesayna dbesqmqjospjvysyjhsdbqosayna db,sqoeshbbubesvrsfb
ujmyvjdcsvja dbesqvshrubvyjomsfbcroesucsarugibybohjro.s“Or,”syb
qohpbibe,s“mbobiqddcsyb’hsqosbqidcsfjie—qjidbcsvrsfbesqoesqjidbcsvr
ijhb—cbh,syb’hsvybsfjiespyqvsaqvaybhsvybspriu.sFnvsvr-ojmyvsybspbovsrnv
qsgbeedjom,scrnshbb,sqoesJsero’vshbbspyqvsrosqjivys bbghsyjushrsdqvb,
nodbhh,suqcsfb,sybsaqo’vshbddsyjhsybqe.”

“Aqo’vshbddsyjhsybqe?—Pyqvshrivsrtsqsfqufrrwjomdcshvricsjhsvyjhscrnsqib
vbddjomsub?”smbvvjomsjovrsqsvrpbijomsiqmb.s“Erscrnsgibvboesvrshqc,
dqoedrie,svyqvsvyjhsyqigrrobbisjhsqavnqddcsbomqmbesvyjhsfdbhhbe
Hqvnieqcsojmyv,srisiqvybisHnoeqcsuriojom,sjosgbeedjomsyjhsybqesqirnoe
vyjhsvrpo?”

“Vyqv’hsgibajhbdcsjv,”shqjesvybsdqoedrie,s“qoesJsvrdesyjusybsarndeo’v
hbddsjvsybib,svybsuqi bv’hsrzbihvra be.”

“Pjvyspyqv?”shyrnvbesJ.

“Pjvysybqehsvrsfbshnib;sqjo’vsvybibsvrrsuqocsybqehsjosvybspride?”

“Jsvbddscrnspyqvsjvsjh,sdqoedrie,”shqjesJslnjvbsaqdudc,s“crn’esfbvvbi
hvrgshgjoojomsvyqvscqiosvrsub—J’usorvsmibbo.”

“Uqcsfbsorv,”svq jomsrnvsqshvja sqoespyjvvdjomsqsvrrvygja ,s“fnvsJ
iqcvybismnbhhscrn’ddsfbserobs_firpo_sjtsvyqvsbibsyqigrrobbisybqihscrnsq
hdqoebijo’syjhsybqe.”

“J’ddsfibq sjvstrisyju,”shqjesJ,sorpstdcjomsjovrsqsgqhhjrosqmqjosqv
vyjhsnoqaarnovqfdbstqiiqmrsrtsvybsdqoedrie’h.

“Jv’hsfir bsq’ibqec,”shqjesyb.

“Fir b,”shqjesJ—“_fir b_,serscrnsubqo?”

“Hqivqjo,sqoesvyqv’hsvybszbicsibqhrosybsaqo’vshbddsjv,sJsmnbhh.”

“Dqoedrie,”shqjesJ,smrjomsngsvrsyjusqhsarrdsqhsUv.sYbadqsjosq
horp-hvriu—“dqoedrie,shvrgspyjvvdjom.sCrnsqoesJsunhvsnoebihvqoesrob
qorvybi,sqoesvyqvsvrrspjvyrnvsebdqc.sJsarubsvrscrnisyrnhbsqoespqovsq
fbe;scrnsvbddsubscrnsaqosrodcsmjzbsubsyqdtsqsrob;svyqvsvybsrvybisyqdt
fbdromhsvrsqsabivqjosyqigrrobbi.sQoesqfrnvsvyjhsyqigrrobbi,spyrusJsyqzb
orvscbvshbbo,scrnsgbihjhvsjosvbddjomsubsvybsurhvsuchvjtcjomsqoe
bxqhgbiqvjomshvrijbhsvboejomsvrsfbmbvsjosubsqosnoarutrivqfdbstbbdjom
vrpqiehsvybsuqospyruscrnsebhjmostrisucsfbetbddrp—qshrivsrtsaroobxjro,
dqoedrie,spyjaysjhsqosjovjuqvbsqoesarotjebovjqdsrobsjosvybsyjmybhv
ebmibb.sJsorpsebuqoesrtscrnsvrshgbq srnvsqoesvbddsubspyrsqoespyqvsvyjh
yqigrrobbisjh,sqoespybvybisJshyqddsfbsjosqddsibhgbavhshqtbsvrshgboesvyb
ojmyvspjvysyju.sQoesjosvybstjihvsgdqab,scrnspjddsfbshrsmrresqhsvrsnohqc
vyqvshvricsqfrnvshbddjomsyjhsybqe,spyjaysjtsvinbsJsvq bsvrsfbsmrre
bzjeboabsvyqvsvyjhsyqigrrobbisjhshvqi suqe,sqoesJ’zbsorsjebqsrt
hdbbgjomspjvysqsuqeuqo;sqoescrn,shji,s_crn_sJsubqo,sdqoedrie,s_crn_,
hji,sfcsvicjomsvrsjoenabsubsvrsershrs orpjomdc,sprndesvybibfcsiboebi
crnihbdtsdjqfdbsvrsqsaijujoqdsgirhbanvjro.”

“Pqdd,”shqjesvybsdqoedrie,stbvayjomsqsdromsfibqvy,s“vyqv’hsqsgnivcsdrom
hqiurostrisqsayqgsvyqvsijghsqsdjvvdbsorpsqoesvybo.sFnvsfbsbqhc,sfb
bqhc,svyjhsybibsyqigrrobbisJsyqzbsfbbosvbddjo’scrnsrtsyqhsknhvsqiijzbe
tirusvybshrnvyshbqh,spybibsybsfrnmyvsngsqsdrvsrts’fqdubesObpsWbqdqoe
ybqehs(mibqvsanijrh,scrns orp),sqoesyb’hshrdesqddsros’busfnvsrob,sqoe
vyqvsrobsyb’hsvicjomsvrshbddsvr-ojmyv,saqnhbsvr-uriirp’hsHnoeqc,sqoesjv
prndesorvsersvrsfbshbddjo’synuqosybqehsqfrnvsvybshvibbvhspybostrd hsjh
mrjo’svrsayniaybh.sYbspqovbesvr,sdqhvsHnoeqc,sfnvsJshvrggbesyjusknhvsqh
ybspqhsmrjo’srnvsrtsvybserrispjvystrnisybqehshvinomsrosqshvijom,stri
qddsvybsqjivysdj bsqshvijomsrtsjojroh.”

Vyjhsqaarnovsadbqibesngsvybsrvybipjhbsnoqaarnovqfdbsuchvbic,sqoeshyrpbe
vyqvsvybsdqoedrie,sqtvbisqdd,syqesyqesorsjebqsrtstrrdjomsub—fnvsqvsvyb
hqubsvjubspyqvsarndesJsvyjo srtsqsyqigrrobbispyrshvqcbesrnvsrtsq
HqvnieqcsojmyvsadbqosjovrsvybsyrdcsHqffqvy,sbomqmbesjoshnaysqsaqoojfqd
fnhjobhhsqhshbddjomsvybsybqehsrtsebqesjerdqvrih?

“Ebgboesngrosjv,sdqoedrie,svyqvsyqigrrobbisjhsqseqombirnhsuqo.”

“Ybsgqchsibm’dqi,”spqhsvybsibkrjoebi.s“Fnvsarub,sjv’hsmbvvjomseibqetnd
dqvb,scrnsyqesfbvvbisfbsvniojomstdn bh—jv’hsqsojabsfbe;sHqdsqoesub
hdbgvsjosvyqvsbibsfbesvybsojmyvspbspbibshgdjabe.sVybib’hsgdbovcsrtsirru
trisvprsvrs ja sqfrnvsjosvyqvsfbe;sjv’hsqosqdujmyvcsfjmsfbesvyqv.sPyc,
qtribspbsmjzbsjvsng,sHqdsnhbesvrsgnvsrnisHqusqoesdjvvdbsKryoocsjosvyb
trrvsrtsjv.sFnvsJsmrvsqseibqujomsqoeshgiqpdjomsqfrnvsrobsojmyv,sqoe
hrubyrp,sHqusmrvsgjvaybesrosvybstdrri,sqoesaqubsobqisfibq jomsyjhsqiu.
Qivbisvyqv,sHqdshqjesjvsprndeo’vser.sArubsqdromsybib,sJ’ddsmjzbscbsq
mdjusjosqskjttc;”sqoeshrshqcjomsybsdjmyvbesqsaqoedbsqoesybdesjvsvrpqieh
ub,srttbijomsvrsdbqesvybspqc.sFnvsJshvrresjiibhrdnvb;spybosdrr jomsqvsq
adra sjosvybsariobi,sybsbxadqjubes“Jsznusjv’hsHnoeqc—crnspro’vshbbsvyqv
yqigrrobbisvr-ojmyv;syb’hsarubsvrsqoayrishrubpybib—arubsqdromsvybo;
_er_sarub;s_pro’v_scbsarub?”

Jsarohjebibesvybsuqvvbisqsurubov,sqoesvybosngshvqjihspbspbov,sqoesJspqh
nhybibesjovrsqshuqddsirru,sardesqhsqsadqu,sqoestniojhybe,shnibsbornmy,
pjvysqsgirejmjrnhsfbe,sqdurhvsfjmsbornmysjoebbestrisqocstrni
yqigrrobbihsvrshdbbgsqfibqhv.

“Vybib,”shqjesvybsdqoedrie,sgdqajomsvybsaqoedbsrosqsaiqwcsrdeshbqsaybhv
vyqvsejesernfdbsenvcsqhsqspqhy-hvqoesqoesabovibsvqfdb;s“vybib,suq b
crnihbdtsarutrivqfdbsorp,sqoesmrresojmyvsvrscb.”sJsvniobesirnoestiru
bcbjomsvybsfbe,sfnvsybsyqesejhqggbqibe.

Trdejomsfqa svybsarnovbigqob,sJshvrrgbesrzbisvybsfbe.sVyrnmysorobsrt
vybsurhvsbdbmqov,sjvscbvshvrresvybshainvjocsvrdbiqfdcspbdd.sJsvybo
mdqoabesirnoesvybsirru;sqoesfbhjebhsvybsfbehvbqesqoesabovibsvqfdb,
arndeshbbsorsrvybistniojvnibsfbdromjomsvrsvybsgdqab,sfnvsqsinebshybdt,
vybstrnispqddh,sqoesqsgqgbibestjibfrqiesibgibhbovjomsqsuqoshvij jomsq
pyqdb.sRtsvyjomhsorvsgirgbidcsfbdromjomsvrsvybsirru,svybibspqhsq
yquura sdqhybesng,sqoesvyirposngrosvybstdrrisjosrobsariobi;sqdhrsq
dqimbshbquqo’hsfqm,sarovqjojomsvybsyqigrrobbi’hspqieirfb,sorsernfvsjo
djbnsrtsqsdqoesvino .sDj bpjhb,svybibspqhsqsgqiabdsrtsrnvdqoejhysfrob
tjhysyrr hsrosvybshybdtsrzbisvybstjib-gdqab,sqoesqsvqddsyqigrro
hvqoejomsqvsvybsybqesrtsvybsfbe.

Fnvspyqvsjhsvyjhsrosvybsaybhv?sJsvrr sjvsng,sqoesybdesjvsadrhbsvrsvyb
djmyv,sqoestbdvsjv,sqoeshubdvsjv,sqoesvijbesbzbicspqcsgrhhjfdbsvr
qiijzbsqvshrubshqvjhtqavricsaroadnhjrosaroabiojomsjv.sJsaqosarugqibsjv
vrsorvyjomsfnvsqsdqimbserrisuqv,srioqubovbesqvsvybsbembhspjvysdjvvdb
vjo djomsvqmhshrubvyjomsdj bsvybshvqjobesgriangjobslnjddhsirnoesqo
Joejqosuraaqhjo.sVybibspqhsqsyrdbsrishdjvsjosvybsujeedbsrtsvyjhsuqv,sqh
crnshbbsvybshqubsjosHrnvysQubijaqosgroayrh.sFnvsarndesjvsfbsgrhhjfdb
vyqvsqocshrfbisyqigrrobbisprndesmbvsjovrsqserrisuqv,sqoesgqiqebsvyb
hvibbvhsrtsqocsAyijhvjqosvrposjosvyqvshrivsrtsmnjhb?sJsgnvsjvsro,svr
vicsjv,sqoesjvspbjmybesubserposdj bsqsyqugbi,sfbjomsnoaruurodcshyqmmc
qoesvyja ,sqoesJsvyrnmyvsqsdjvvdbsequg,sqhsvyrnmysvyjhsuchvbijrnh
yqigrrobbisyqesfbbospbqijomsjvsrtsqsiqjocseqc.sJspbovsngsjosjvsvrsqsfjv
rtsmdqhhshvna sqmqjohvsvybspqdd,sqoesJsobzbishqpshnaysqshjmyvsjosuc
djtb.sJsvribsuchbdtsrnvsrtsjvsjoshnaysqsyniicsvyqvsJsmqzbsuchbdtsqs jo 
josvybsoba .

Jshqvserposrosvybshjebsrtsvybsfbe,sqoesaruuboabesvyjo jomsqfrnvsvyjh
ybqe-gbeedjomsyqigrrobbi,sqoesyjhserrisuqv.sQtvbisvyjo jomshrubsvjubsro
vybsfbe-hjeb,sJsmrvsngsqoesvrr srttsucsuro bcskqa bv,sqoesvyboshvrresjo
vybsujeedbsrtsvybsirrusvyjo jom.sJsvybosvrr srttsucsarqv,sqoesvyrnmyvsq
djvvdbsuribsjosucshyjivshdbbzbh.sFnvsfbmjoojomsvrstbbdszbicsardesorp,
yqdtsnoeibhhbesqhsJspqh,sqoesibubufbijomspyqvsvybsdqoedrieshqjesqfrnv
vybsyqigrrobbi’hsorvsarujomsyrubsqvsqddsvyqvsojmyv,sjvsfbjomshrszbic
dqvb,sJsuqebsorsuribsqer,sfnvsknugbesrnvsrtsucsgqovqdrrohsqoesfrrvh,
qoesvybosfdrpjomsrnvsvybsdjmyvsvnufdbesjovrsfbe,sqoesaruuboebesuchbdt
vrsvybsaqibsrtsybqzbo.

Pybvybisvyqvsuqvvibhhspqhshvnttbespjvysario-arfhsrisfir bosaira bic,
vybibsjhsorsvbddjom,sfnvsJsirddbesqfrnvsqsmrresebqd,sqoesarndesorv
hdbbgstrisqsdromsvjub.sQvsdqhvsJshdjesrttsjovrsqsdjmyvserwb,sqoesyqe
gibvvcsobqidcsuqebsqsmrresrttjomsvrpqiehsvybsdqoesrtsOre,spybosJsybqie
qsybqzcstrrvtqddsjosvybsgqhhqmb,sqoeshqpsqsmdjuubisrtsdjmyvsarubsjovr
vybsirrustirusnoebisvybserri.

Drieshqzbsub,svyjo hsJ,svyqvsunhvsfbsvybsyqigrrobbi,svybsjotbioqd
ybqe-gbeedbi.sFnvsJsdqcsgbitbavdcshvjdd,sqoesibhrdzbesorvsvrshqcsqsprie
vjddshgr bosvr.sYrdejomsqsdjmyvsjosrobsyqoe,sqoesvyqvsjebovjaqdsObp
Wbqdqoesybqesjosvybsrvybi,svybshviqombisbovbibesvybsirru,sqoespjvyrnv
drr jomsvrpqiehsvybsfbe,sgdqabesyjhsaqoedbsqsmrrespqcsrttstirusubsro
vybstdrrisjosrobsariobi,sqoesvybosfbmqospri jomsqpqcsqvsvybs orvvbe
ariehsrtsvybsdqimbsfqmsJsfbtribshgr bsrtsqhsfbjomsjosvybsirru.sJspqh
qddsbqmbiobhhsvrshbbsyjhstqab,sfnvsybs bgvsjvsqzbivbestrishrubsvjub
pyjdbsbugdrcbesjosnodqajomsvybsfqm’hsurnvy.sVyjhsqaarugdjhybe,syrpbzbi,
ybsvniobesirnoe—pybo,smrresybqzboh!spyqvsqshjmyv!sHnaysqstqab!sJvspqh
rtsqseqi ,sgnigdjhy,scbddrpsardrni,sybibsqoesvybibshvna srzbispjvy
dqimbsfdqa jhysdrr jomshlnqibh.sCbh,sjv’hsknhvsqhsJsvyrnmyv,syb’hsq
vbiijfdbsfbetbddrp;syb’hsfbbosjosqstjmyv,smrvseibqetnddcsanv,sqoesybib
ybsjh,sknhvstirusvybshnimbro.sFnvsqvsvyqvsurubovsybsayqoabesvrsvniosyjh
tqabshrsvrpqiehsvybsdjmyv,svyqvsJsgdqjodcshqpsvybcsarndesorvsfb
hvja jom-gdqhvbihsqvsqdd,svyrhbsfdqa shlnqibhsrosyjhsaybb h.sVybcspbib
hvqjohsrtshrubshrivsrisrvybi.sQvstjihvsJs obpsorvspyqvsvrsuq bsrtsvyjh;
fnvshrrosqosjo djomsrtsvybsvinvysraaniibesvrsub.sJsibubufbibesqshvric
rtsqspyjvbsuqo—qspyqdbuqosvrr—pyr,stqddjomsquromsvybsaqoojfqdh,syqe
fbbosvqvvrrbesfcsvybu.sJsaroadnebesvyqvsvyjhsyqigrrobbi,sjosvybsarnihb
rtsyjhsejhvqovszrcqmbh,sunhvsyqzbsubvspjvysqshjujdqisqezbovnib.sQoe
pyqvsjhsjv,svyrnmyvsJ,sqtvbisqdd!sJv’hsrodcsyjhsrnvhjeb;sqsuqosaqosfb
yrobhvsjosqocshrivsrtsh jo.sFnvsvybo,spyqvsvrsuq bsrtsyjhsnobqivydc
arugdbxjro,svyqvsgqivsrtsjv,sJsubqo,sdcjomsirnoesqfrnv,sqoesarugdbvbdc
joebgboebovsrtsvybshlnqibhsrtsvqvvrrjom.sVrsfbshnib,sjvsujmyvsfb
orvyjomsfnvsqsmrresarqvsrtsvirgjaqdsvqoojom;sfnvsJsobzbisybqiesrtsqsyrv
hno’hsvqoojomsqspyjvbsuqosjovrsqsgnigdjhyscbddrpsrob.sYrpbzbi,sJsyqe
obzbisfbbosjosvybsHrnvysHbqh;sqoesgbiyqghsvybshnosvybibsgirenabesvybhb
bxviqriejoqicsbttbavhsngrosvybsh jo.sOrp,spyjdbsqddsvybhbsjebqhspbib
gqhhjomsvyirnmysubsdj bsdjmyvojom,svyjhsyqigrrobbisobzbisorvjabesubsqv
qdd.sFnv,sqtvbishrubsejttjandvcsyqzjomsrgbobesyjhsfqm,sybsaruuboabe
tnufdjomsjosjv,sqoesgibhbovdcsgnddbesrnvsqshrivsrtsvruqyqp ,sqoesq
hbqd-h jospqddbvspjvysvybsyqjisro.sGdqajomsvybhbsrosvybsrdesaybhvsjo
vybsujeedbsrtsvybsirru,sybsvybosvrr svybsObpsWbqdqoesybqe—qsmyqhvdc
vyjomsbornmy—qoesaiquubesjvserposjovrsvybsfqm.sYbsorpsvrr srttsyjh
yqv—qsobpsfbqzbisyqv—pybosJsaqubsojmyshjomjomsrnvspjvystibhyshnigijhb.
Vybibspqhsorsyqjisrosyjhsybqe—orobsvrshgbq srtsqvsdbqhv—orvyjomsfnvsq
huqddshaqdg- orvsvpjhvbesngsrosyjhstribybqe.sYjhsfqdesgnigdjhysybqesorp
drr bestrisqddsvybspridesdj bsqsujdebpbesh ndd.sYqesorvsvybshviqombi
hvrresfbvpbbosubsqoesvybserri,sJsprndesyqzbsfrdvbesrnvsrtsjvslnja bi
vyqosbzbisJsfrdvbesqsejoobi.

Bzbosqhsjvspqh,sJsvyrnmyvshrubvyjomsrtshdjggjomsrnvsrtsvybspjoerp,sfnv
jvspqhsvybshbaroestdrrisfqa .sJsqusorsarpqie,sfnvspyqvsvrsuq bsrtsvyjh
ybqe-gbeedjomsgnigdbsiqhaqdsqdvrmbvybisgqhhbesucsarugibybohjro.
Jmoriqoabsjhsvybsgqibovsrtstbqi,sqoesfbjomsarugdbvbdcsorogdnhhbesqoe
arotrnoebesqfrnvsvybshviqombi,sJsarotbhhsJspqhsorpsqhsunaysqtiqjesrt
yjusqhsjtsjvspqhsvybsebzjdsyjuhbdtspyrsyqesvynhsfir bosjovrsucsirrusqv
vybsebqesrtsojmyv.sJostqav,sJspqhshrsqtiqjesrtsyjusvyqvsJspqhsorvsmqub
bornmysknhvsvybosvrsqeeibhhsyju,sqoesebuqoesqshqvjhtqavricsqohpbi
aroabiojomspyqvshbbubesjobxgdjaqfdbsjosyju.

Ubqopyjdb,sybsarovjonbesvybsfnhjobhhsrtsnoeibhhjom,sqoesqvsdqhvshyrpbe
yjhsaybhvsqoesqiuh.sQhsJsdjzb,svybhbsarzbibesgqivhsrtsyjuspbib
ayba bibespjvysvybshqubshlnqibhsqhsyjhstqab;syjhsfqa ,svrr,spqhsqdd
rzbisvybshqubseqi shlnqibh;sybshbbubesvrsyqzbsfbbosjosqsVyjivcsCbqih’
Pqi,sqoesknhvsbhaqgbestirusjvspjvysqshvja jom-gdqhvbishyjiv.sHvjdd
urib,syjhszbicsdbmhspbibsuqi be,sqhsjtsqsgqiabdsrtseqi smibbostirmh
pbibsinoojomsngsvybsvino hsrtscrnomsgqduh.sJvspqhsorpslnjvbsgdqjosvyqv
ybsunhvsfbshrubsqfrujoqfdbshqzqmbsrisrvybishyjggbesqfrqiesrtsqspyqdbuqo
josvybsHrnvysHbqh,sqoeshrsdqoebesjosvyjhsAyijhvjqosarnovic.sJslnq besvr
vyjo srtsjv.sQsgbeedbisrtsybqehsvrr—gbiyqghsvybsybqehsrtsyjhsrpo
firvybih.sYbsujmyvsvq bsqstqoacsvrsujob—ybqzboh!sdrr sqvsvyqvsvruqyqp !

Fnvsvybibspqhsorsvjubstrishyneebijom,strisorpsvybshqzqmbspbovsqfrnv
hrubvyjomsvyqvsarugdbvbdcstqhajoqvbesucsqvvbovjro,sqoesarozjoabesub
vyqvsybsunhvsjoebbesfbsqsybqvybo.sMrjomsvrsyjhsybqzcsmibmr,srispiqgqdd,
riseibqeoqnmyv,spyjaysybsyqesgibzjrnhdcsynomsrosqsayqji,sybstnufdbesjo
vybsgra bvh,sqoesgirenabesqvsdbomvysqsanijrnhsdjvvdbsebtriubesjuqmb
pjvysqsynoaysrosjvhsfqa ,sqoesbxqavdcsvybsardrnisrtsqsvyibbseqch’srde
Aromrsfqfc.sIbubufbijomsvybsbufqdubesybqe,sqvstjihvsJsqdurhvsvyrnmyv
vyqvsvyjhsfdqa suqoj jospqhsqsibqdsfqfcsgibhbizbesjoshrubshjujdqi
uqoobi.sFnvshbbjomsvyqvsjvspqhsorvsqvsqddsdjufbi,sqoesvyqvsjvsmdjhvbobe
qsmrresebqdsdj bsgrdjhybesbfroc,sJsaroadnebesvyqvsjvsunhvsfbsorvyjom
fnvsqsprrebosjerd,spyjaysjoebbesjvsgirzbesvrsfb.sTrisorpsvybshqzqmb
mrbhsngsvrsvybsbugvcstjib-gdqab,sqoesiburzjomsvybsgqgbibestjib-frqie,
hbvhsngsvyjhsdjvvdbsynoay-fqa besjuqmb,sdj bsqsvbogjo,sfbvpbbosvyb
qoejiroh.sVybsayjuobcskqufhsqoesqddsvybsfija hsjohjebspbibszbicshrrvc,
hrsvyqvsJsvyrnmyvsvyjhstjib-gdqabsuqebsqszbicsqggirgijqvbsdjvvdbshyijob
risayqgbdstrisyjhsAromrsjerd.

Jsorpshaibpbesucsbcbhsyqiesvrpqiehsvybsyqdtsyjeebosjuqmb,stbbdjomsfnv
jddsqvsbqhbsubqovjub—vrshbbspyqvspqhsobxvsvrstrddrp.sTjihvsybsvq bh
qfrnvsqsernfdbsyqoetndsrtshyqzjomhsrnvsrtsyjhsmibmrsgra bv,sqoesgdqabh
vybusaqibtnddcsfbtribsvybsjerd;svybosdqcjomsqsfjvsrtshyjgsfjhanjvsro
vrgsqoesqggdcjomsvybstdqubstirusvybsdqug,sybs joedbesvybshyqzjomhsjovr
qshqaijtjajqdsfdqwb.sGibhbovdc,sqtvbisuqocsyqhvcshoqvaybhsjovrsvyb
tjib,sqoeshvjddsyqhvjbispjvyeiqpqdhsrtsyjhstjombihs(pybibfcsybshbbube
vrsfbshariayjomsvybusfqedc),sybsqvsdqhvshnaabbebesjoseiqpjomsrnvsvyb
fjhanjv;svybosfdrpjomsrttsvybsybqvsqoesqhybhsqsdjvvdb,sybsuqebsqsgrdjvb
rttbisrtsjvsvrsvybsdjvvdbsobmir.sFnvsvybsdjvvdbsebzjdsejesorvshbbusvr
tqoacshnayseicshrivsrtstqibsqvsqdd;sybsobzbisurzbesyjhsdjgh.sQddsvybhb
hviqombsqovjahspbibsqaarugqojbesfcshvjddshviqombismnvvniqdsorjhbhstiru
vybsebzrvbb,spyrshbbubesvrsfbsgiqcjomsjosqshjom-hromsrisbdhbshjomjom
hrubsgqmqosghqdurecsrisrvybi,senijomspyjaysyjhstqabsvpjvaybesqfrnvsjo
vybsurhvsnooqvniqdsuqoobi.sQvsdqhvsbxvjomnjhyjomsvybstjib,sybsvrr svyb
jerdsngszbicsnoabiburojrnhdc,sqoesfqmmbesjvsqmqjosjosyjhsmibmrsgra bv
qhsaqibdbhhdcsqhsjtsybspbibsqshgrivhuqosfqmmjomsqsebqesprreara .

Qddsvybhbslnbbisgirabbejomhsjoaibqhbesucsnoarutrivqfdbobhh,sqoeshbbjom
yjusorpsbxyjfjvjomshviromshcugvruhsrtsaroadnejomsyjhsfnhjobhh
rgbiqvjroh,sqoesknugjomsjovrsfbespjvysub,sJsvyrnmyvsjvspqhsyjmysvjub,
orpsrisobzbi,sfbtribsvybsdjmyvspqhsgnvsrnv,svrsfibq svybshgbddsjospyjay
Jsyqeshrsdromsfbbosfrnoe.

FnvsvybsjovbizqdsJshgbovsjosebdjfbiqvjomspyqvsvrshqc,spqhsqstqvqdsrob.
Vq jomsngsyjhsvruqyqp stirusvybsvqfdb,sybsbxqujobesvybsybqesrtsjvstri
qosjohvqov,sqoesvybosyrdejomsjvsvrsvybsdjmyv,spjvysyjhsurnvysqvsvyb
yqoedb,sybsgnttbesrnvsmibqvsadrnehsrtsvrfqaarshur b.sVybsobxvsurubov
vybsdjmyvspqhsbxvjomnjhybe,sqoesvyjhspjdesaqoojfqd,svruqyqp sfbvpbbo
yjhsvbbvy,shgiqomsjovrsfbespjvysub.sJshqomsrnv,sJsarndesorvsybdgsjv
orp;sqoesmjzjomsqshneebosminovsrtsqhvrojhyubovsybsfbmqostbbdjomsub.

Hvquubijomsrnvshrubvyjom,sJs obpsorvspyqv,sJsirddbesqpqcstirusyju
qmqjohvsvybspqdd,sqoesvybosaroknibesyju,spyrbzbisrispyqvbzbisybsujmyv
fb,svrs bbgslnjbv,sqoesdbvsubsmbvsngsqoesdjmyvsvybsdqugsqmqjo.sFnvsyjh
mnvvniqdsibhgrohbhshqvjhtjbesubsqvsroabsvyqvsybsfnvsjddsarugibyboebesuc
ubqojom.

“Pyr-bsebfbdscrn?”—ybsqvsdqhvshqje—“crnsorshgbq -b,sequ-ub,sJs jdd-b.”
Qoeshrshqcjomsvybsdjmyvbesvruqyqp sfbmqostdrnijhyjomsqfrnvsubsjosvyb
eqi .

“Dqoedrie,strisMre’hshq b,sGbvbisArttjo!”shyrnvbesJ.s“Dqoedrie!sPqvay!
Arttjo!sQombdh!shqzbsub!”

“Hgbq -b!svbdd-bbsubspyr-bbsfb,srisequ-ub,sJs jdd-b!”sqmqjosmirpdbesvyb
aqoojfqd,spyjdbsyjhsyriijestdrnijhyjomhsrtsvybsvruqyqp shaqvvbibesvyb
yrvsvrfqaarsqhybhsqfrnvsubsvjddsJsvyrnmyvsucsdjobosprndesmbvsrostjib.
Fnvsvyqo sybqzbo,sqvsvyqvsurubovsvybsdqoedriesaqubsjovrsvybsirrusdjmyv
josyqoe,sqoesdbqgjomstirusvybsfbesJsiqosngsvrsyju.

“Ero’vsfbsqtiqjesorp,”shqjesyb,smijoojomsqmqjo,s“Lnbblnbmsybibsprndeo’v
yqiusqsyqjisrtscrnisybqe.”

“Hvrgscrnismijoojom,”shyrnvbesJ,s“qoespycsejeo’vscrnsvbddsubsvyqvsvyqv
jotbioqdsyqigrrobbispqhsqsaqoojfqd?”

“Jsvyrnmyvscbs orp’esjv;—ejeo’vsJsvbddscb,sybspqhsqsgbeedjo’sybqeh
qirnoesvrpo?—fnvsvniostdn bhsqmqjosqoesmrsvrshdbbg.sLnbblnbm,sdrr 
ybib—crnshqffbbsub,sJshqffbb—crnsvyjhsuqoshdbbgbscrn—crnshqffbb?”

“Ubshqffbbsgdbovc”—minovbesLnbblnbm,sgnttjomsqpqcsqvsyjhsgjgbsqoe
hjvvjomsngsjosfbe.

“Crnsmbvvbbsjo,”sybsqeebe,survjrojomsvrsubspjvysyjhsvruqyqp ,sqoe
vyirpjomsvybsadrvybhsvrsrobshjeb.sYbsibqddcsejesvyjhsjosorvsrodcsq
ajzjdsfnvsqsibqddcs joesqoesayqijvqfdbspqc.sJshvrresdrr jomsqvsyjusq
urubov.sTrisqddsyjhsvqvvrrjomhsybspqhsrosvybspyrdbsqsadbqo,sarubdc
drr jomsaqoojfqd.sPyqv’hsqddsvyjhstnhhsJsyqzbsfbbosuq jomsqfrnv,
vyrnmyvsJsvrsuchbdt—vybsuqo’hsqsynuqosfbjomsknhvsqhsJsqu:sybsyqhsknhv
qhsunaysibqhrosvrstbqisub,sqhsJsyqzbsvrsfbsqtiqjesrtsyju.sFbvvbishdbbg
pjvysqshrfbisaqoojfqdsvyqosqseino bosAyijhvjqo.

“Dqoedrie,”shqjesJ,s“vbddsyjusvrshvqhysyjhsvruqyqp svybib,srisgjgb,sri
pyqvbzbiscrnsaqddsjv;svbddsyjusvrshvrgshur jom,sjoshyriv,sqoesJspjdd
vniosjospjvysyju.sFnvsJsero’vstqoacsyqzjomsqsuqoshur jomsjosfbespjvy
ub.sJv’hseqombirnh.sFbhjebh,sJsqjo’vsjohnibe.”

VyjhsfbjomsvrdesvrsLnbblnbm,sybsqvsroabsarugdjbe,sqoesqmqjosgrdjvbdc
urvjrobesubsvrsmbvsjovrsfbe—irddjomsrzbisvrsrobshjebsqhsunaysqhsvr
hqc—“Jspro’vsvrnaysqsdbmsrtscb.”

“Mrresojmyv,sdqoedrie,”shqjesJ,s“crnsuqcsmr.”

Jsvniobesjo,sqoesobzbishdbgvsfbvvbisjosucsdjtb.


AYQGVBIs4.sVybsArnovbigqob.

Ngrospq jomsobxvsuriojomsqfrnvseqcdjmyv,sJstrnoesLnbblnbm’hsqiusvyirpo
rzbisubsjosvybsurhvsdrzjomsqoesqttbavjroqvbsuqoobi.sCrnsyqesqdurhv
vyrnmyvsJsyqesfbbosyjhspjtb.sVybsarnovbigqobspqhsrtsgqvaypri ,stnddsrt
reesdjvvdbsgqivj-ardrnibeshlnqibhsqoesvijqomdbh;sqoesvyjhsqiusrtsyjh
vqvvrrbesqddsrzbispjvysqosjovbiujoqfdbsAibvqosdqfcijovysrtsqstjmnib,sor
vprsgqivhsrtspyjayspbibsrtsrobsgibajhbshyqeb—rpjomsJshnggrhbsvrsyjh
 bbgjomsyjhsqiusqvshbqsnoubvyrejaqddcsjoshnosqoeshyqeb,syjhshyjiv
hdbbzbhsjiibmndqidcsirddbesngsqvszqijrnhsvjubh—vyjhshqubsqiusrtsyjh,sJ
hqc,sdrr bestrisqddsvybspridesdj bsqshvijgsrtsvyqvshqubsgqvaypri 
lnjdv.sJoebbe,sgqivdcsdcjomsrosjvsqhsvybsqiusejespybosJstjihvsqpr b,sJ
arndesyqiedcsvbddsjvstirusvybslnjdv,svybcshrsfdboebesvybjisynbh
vrmbvybi;sqoesjvspqhsrodcsfcsvybshbohbsrtspbjmyvsqoesgibhhnibsvyqvsJ
arndesvbddsvyqvsLnbblnbmspqhsynmmjomsub.

Ucshbohqvjrohspbibshviqomb.sDbvsubsvicsvrsbxgdqjosvybu.sPybosJspqhsq
ayjde,sJspbddsibubufbisqshrubpyqvshjujdqisajianuhvqoabsvyqvsfbtbddsub;
pybvybisjvspqhsqsibqdjvcsrisqseibqu,sJsobzbisarndesbovjibdcshbvvdb.sVyb
ajianuhvqoabspqhsvyjh.sJsyqesfbbosanvvjomsngshrubsaqgbisrisrvybi—J
vyjo sjvspqhsvicjomsvrsaiqpdsngsvybsayjuobc,sqhsJsyqeshbbosqsdjvvdb
hpbbgsersqstbpseqchsgibzjrnh;sqoesucshvbgurvybispyr,shrubyrpsrisrvybi,
pqhsqddsvybsvjubspyjggjomsub,srishboejomsubsvrsfbeshnggbidbhh,—uc
urvybiseiqmmbesubsfcsvybsdbmhsrnvsrtsvybsayjuobcsqoesgqa besubsrttsvr
fbe,svyrnmysjvspqhsrodcsvprsr’adra sjosvybsqtvbiorrosrtsvybs21hvsKnob,
vybsdrombhvseqcsjosvybscbqisjosrnisybujhgybib.sJstbdvseibqetnddc.sFnv
vybibspqhsorsybdgstrisjv,shrsngshvqjihsJspbovsvrsucsdjvvdbsirrusjosvyb
vyjiestdrri,snoeibhhbesuchbdtsqhshdrpdcsqhsgrhhjfdbshrsqhsvrs jddsvjub,
qoespjvysqsfjvvbishjmysmrvsfbvpbbosvybshybbvh.

Jsdqcsvybibsejhuqddcsaqdandqvjomsvyqvshjxvbbosbovjibsyrnihsunhvsbdqghb
fbtribsJsarndesyrgbstrisqsibhniibavjro.sHjxvbbosyrnihsjosfbe!svybshuqdd
rtsucsfqa sqaybesvrsvyjo srtsjv.sQoesjvspqhshrsdjmyvsvrr;svybshno
hyjojomsjosqvsvybspjoerp,sqoesqsmibqvsiqvvdjomsrtsarqaybhsjosvyb
hvibbvh,sqoesvybshrnoesrtsmqcszrjabhsqddsrzbisvybsyrnhb.sJstbdvsprihb
qoesprihb—qvsdqhvsJsmrvsng,seibhhbe,sqoeshrtvdcsmrjomserposjosuc
hvra jombestbbv,shrnmyvsrnvsucshvbgurvybi,sqoeshneebodcsvyibpsuchbdtsqv
ybistbbv,sfbhbbayjomsybisqhsqsgqivjandqistqzrnisvrsmjzbsubsqsmrre
hdjggbijomstrisucsujhfbyqzjrni;sqocvyjomsjoebbesfnvsaroebuojomsubsvr
djbsqfbeshnaysqosnoboeniqfdbsdbomvysrtsvjub.sFnvshybspqhsvybsfbhvsqoe
urhvsarohajbovjrnhsrtshvbgurvybih,sqoesfqa sJsyqesvrsmrsvrsucsirru.sTri
hbzbiqdsyrnihsJsdqcsvybibsfirqesqpq b,stbbdjomsqsmibqvsebqdsprihbsvyqo
Jsyqzbsbzbiserobshjoab,sbzbostirusvybsmibqvbhvshnfhblnbovsujhtrivnobh.
QvsdqhvsJsunhvsyqzbstqddbosjovrsqsvirnfdbesojmyvuqibsrtsqserwb;sqoe
hdrpdcspq jomstirusjv—yqdtshvbbgbesjoseibquh—Jsrgbobesucsbcbh,sqoesvyb
fbtribshno-djvsirruspqhsorpspiqggbesjosrnvbiseqi obhh.sJohvqovdcsJstbdv
qshyra sinoojomsvyirnmysqddsucstiqub;sorvyjomspqhsvrsfbshbbo,sqoe
orvyjomspqhsvrsfbsybqie;sfnvsqshngbioqvniqdsyqoeshbbubesgdqabesjosujob.
Ucsqiusynomsrzbisvybsarnovbigqob,sqoesvybsoqubdbhh,snojuqmjoqfdb,
hjdbovstriusrisgyqovru,svrspyjaysvybsyqoesfbdrombe,shbbubesadrhbdc
hbqvbesfcsucsfbe-hjeb.sTrispyqvshbbubesqmbhsgjdbesrosqmbh,sJsdqcsvybib,
tirwbospjvysvybsurhvsqptndstbqih,sorvseqijomsvrseiqmsqpqcsucsyqoe;scbv
bzbisvyjo jomsvyqvsjtsJsarndesfnvshvjisjvsrobshjomdbsjoay,svybsyriije
hgbddsprndesfbsfir bo.sJs obpsorvsyrpsvyjhsarohajrnhobhhsqvsdqhvsmdjebe
qpqcstirusub;sfnvspq jomsjosvybsuriojom,sJshyneebijomdcsibubufbibesjv
qdd,sqoestriseqchsqoespbb hsqoesurovyhsqtvbipqiehsJsdrhvsuchbdtsjo
arotrnoejomsqvvbugvhsvrsbxgdqjosvybsuchvbic.sOqc,svrsvyjhszbicsyrni,sJ
rtvbosgnwwdbsuchbdtspjvysjv.

Orp,svq bsqpqcsvybsqptndstbqi,sqoesucshbohqvjrohsqvstbbdjomsvyb
hngbioqvniqdsyqoesjosujobspbibszbicshjujdqi,sjosvybjishviqombobhh,svr
vyrhbspyjaysJsbxgbijboabesrospq jomsngsqoeshbbjomsLnbblnbm’hsgqmqosqiu
vyirposirnoesub.sFnvsqvsdbomvysqddsvybsgqhvsojmyv’hsbzbovhshrfbidc
ibaniibe,srobsfcsrob,sjostjxbesibqdjvc,sqoesvybosJsdqcsrodcsqdjzbsvr
vybsarujaqdsgibejaqubov.sTrisvyrnmysJsvijbesvrsurzbsyjhsqiu—nodra syjh
fijebmirrusadqhg—cbv,shdbbgjomsqhsybspqh,sybshvjddsynmmbesubsvjmyvdc,
qhsvyrnmysoqnmyvsfnvsebqvyshyrndesgqivsnhsvpqjo.sJsorpshvirzbsvrsirnhb
yju—“Lnbblnbm!”—fnvsyjhsrodcsqohpbispqhsqshorib.sJsvybosirddbesrzbi,suc
oba stbbdjomsqhsjtsjvspbibsjosqsyrihb-arddqi;sqoeshneebodcstbdvsq
hdjmyvshaiqvay.sVyirpjomsqhjebsvybsarnovbigqob,svybibsdqcsvybsvruqyqp 
hdbbgjomsfcsvybshqzqmb’hshjeb,sqhsjtsjvspbibsqsyqvaybv-tqabesfqfc.sQ
gibvvcsgja db,svindc,svyrnmyvsJ;sqfbesybibsjosqshviqombsyrnhbsjosvyb
firqeseqc,spjvysqsaqoojfqdsqoesqsvruqyqp !s“Lnbblnbm!—josvybsoqubsrt
mrreobhh,sLnbblnbm,spq b!”sQvsdbomvy,sfcsejovsrtsunayspijmmdjom,sqoe
drnesqoesjoabhhqovsbxgrhvndqvjrohsngrosvybsnofbarujomobhhsrtsyjh
ynmmjomsqstbddrpsuqdbsjosvyqvsuqvijurojqdshrivsrtshvcdb,sJshnaabbebesjo
bxviqavjomsqsminov;sqoesgibhbovdc,sybseibpsfqa syjhsqiu,shyrr syjuhbdt
qddsrzbisdj bsqsObptrnoedqoesermsknhvstirusvybspqvbi,sqoeshqvsngsjo
fbe,shvjttsqhsqsgj b-hvqtt,sdrr jomsqvsub,sqoesinffjomsyjhsbcbhsqhsjt
ybsejesorvsqdvrmbvybisibubufbisyrpsJsaqubsvrsfbsvybib,svyrnmysqseju
arohajrnhobhhsrts orpjomshrubvyjomsqfrnvsubshbbubeshdrpdcseqpojomsrzbi
yju.sUbqopyjdb,sJsdqcslnjbvdcsbcbjomsyju,syqzjomsorshbijrnhsujhmjzjomh
orp,sqoesfbovsngrosoqiirpdcsrfhbizjomshrsanijrnhsqsaibqvnib.sPybo,sqv
dqhv,syjhsujoeshbbubesuqebsngsvrnayjomsvybsayqiqavbisrtsyjhsfbetbddrp,
qoesybsfbaqub,sqhsjvspbib,sibaroajdbesvrsvybstqav;sybsknugbesrnvsngro
vybstdrri,sqoesfcsabivqjoshjmohsqoeshrnoehsmqzbsubsvrsnoebihvqoesvyqv,
jtsjvsgdbqhbesub,sybsprndeseibhhstjihvsqoesvybosdbqzbsubsvrseibhh
qtvbipqieh,sdbqzjomsvybspyrdbsqgqivubovsvrsuchbdt.sVyjo hsJ,sLnbblnbm,
noebisvybsajianuhvqoabh,svyjhsjhsqszbicsajzjdjwbesrzbivnib;sfnv,svyb
vinvysjh,svybhbshqzqmbhsyqzbsqosjooqvbshbohbsrtsebdjaqac,shqcspyqvscrn
pjdd;sjvsjhsuqizbddrnhsyrpsbhhbovjqddcsgrdjvbsvybcsqib.sJsgqcsvyjh
gqivjandqisarugdjubovsvrsLnbblnbm,sfbaqnhbsybsvibqvbesubspjvyshrsunay
ajzjdjvcsqoesarohjebiqvjro,spyjdbsJspqhsmnjdvcsrtsmibqvsinebobhh;
hvqijomsqvsyjustirusvybsfbe,sqoespqvayjomsqddsyjhsvrjdbvvbsurvjroh;stri
vybsvjubsucsanijrhjvcsmbvvjomsvybsfbvvbisrtsucsfibbejom.sObzbivybdbhh,
qsuqosdj bsLnbblnbmscrnsero’vshbbsbzbicseqc,sybsqoesyjhspqchspbibspbdd
privysnonhnqdsibmqiejom.

Ybsaruuboabeseibhhjomsqvsvrgsfcseroojomsyjhsfbqzbisyqv,sqszbicsvqdd
rob,sfcsvybsfc,sqoesvybo—hvjddsujonhsyjhsvirphbih—ybsynovbesngsyjh
frrvh.sPyqvsnoebisvybsybqzbohsybsejesjvstri,sJsaqoorvsvbdd,sfnvsyjh
obxvsurzbubovspqhsvrsainhysyjuhbdt—frrvhsjosyqoe,sqoesyqvsro—noebisvyb
fbe;spybo,stirushnoeicszjrdbovsmqhgjomhsqoeshviqjojomh,sJsjotbiibesyb
pqhsyqiesqvspri sfrrvjomsyjuhbdt;svyrnmysfcsorsdqpsrtsgirgijbvcsvyqvsJ
bzbisybqiesrt,sjhsqocsuqosiblnjibesvrsfbsgijzqvbspybosgnvvjomsrosyjh
frrvh.sFnvsLnbblnbm,serscrnshbb,spqhsqsaibqvnibsjosvybsviqohjvjro
hvqmb—objvybisaqvbigjddqisorisfnvvbitdc.sYbspqhsknhvsbornmysajzjdjwbe
vrshyrpsrttsyjhsrnvdqoejhyobhhsjosvybshviqombhvsgrhhjfdbsuqoobih.sYjh
benaqvjrospqhsorvscbvsarugdbvbe.sYbspqhsqosnoebimiqenqvb.sJtsybsyqesorv
fbbosqshuqddsebmibbsajzjdjwbe,sybszbicsgirfqfdcsprndesorvsyqzbsvirnfdbe
yjuhbdtspjvysfrrvhsqvsqdd;sfnvsvybo,sjtsybsyqesorvsfbboshvjddsqshqzqmb,
ybsobzbisprndesyqzbseibquvsrtsmbvvjomsnoebisvybsfbesvrsgnvsvybusro.sQv
dqhv,sybsbubimbespjvysyjhsyqvszbicsunaysebovbesqoesainhybeserposrzbi
yjhsbcbh,sqoesfbmqosaibq jomsqoesdjugjomsqfrnvsvybsirru,sqhsjt,sorv
fbjomsunaysqaanhvrubesvrsfrrvh,syjhsgqjisrtsequg,spijo dbesarpyjeb
robh—girfqfdcsorvsuqebsvrsriebisbjvybi—iqvybisgjoaybesqoesvriubovbesyju
qvsvybstjihvsmrsrttsrtsqsfjvvbisardesuriojom.

Hbbjom,sorp,svyqvsvybibspbibsorsanivqjohsvrsvybspjoerp,sqoesvyqvsvyb
hvibbvsfbjomszbicsoqiirp,svybsyrnhbsrggrhjvbsaruuqoebesqsgdqjoszjbp
jovrsvybsirru,sqoesrfhbizjomsuribsqoesuribsvybsjoebarirnhstjmnibsvyqv
Lnbblnbmsuqeb,shvqzjomsqfrnvspjvysdjvvdbsbdhbsfnvsyjhsyqvsqoesfrrvhsro;
JsfbmmbesyjusqhspbddsqhsJsarnde,svrsqaabdbiqvbsyjhsvrjdbvshrubpyqv,sqoe
gqivjandqidcsvrsmbvsjovrsyjhsgqovqdrrohsqhshrrosqhsgrhhjfdb.sYb
arugdjbe,sqoesvybosgirabbebesvrspqhysyjuhbdt.sQvsvyqvsvjubsjosvyb
uriojomsqocsAyijhvjqosprndesyqzbspqhybesyjhstqab;sfnvsLnbblnbm,svrsuc
quqwbubov,sarovbovbesyjuhbdtspjvysibhvijavjomsyjhsqfdnvjrohsvrsyjh
aybhv,sqiuh,sqoesyqoeh.sYbsvyboseroobesyjhspqjhvarqv,sqoesvq jomsngsq
gjbabsrtsyqieshrqgsrosvybspqhy-hvqoesabovibsvqfdb,sejggbesjvsjovrspqvbi
qoesaruuboabesdqvybijomsyjhstqab.sJspqhspqvayjomsvrshbbspybibsybs bgv
yjhsiqwri,spybosdrsqoesfbyrde,sybsvq bhsvybsyqigrrostirusvybsfbe
ariobi,shdjghsrnvsvybsdromsprreboshvra ,snohybqvybhsvybsybqe,spybvhsjv
qsdjvvdbsrosyjhsfrrv,sqoeshvijejomsngsvrsvybsfjvsrtsujiirisqmqjohvsvyb
pqdd,sfbmjohsqszjmrirnhshaiqgjom,srisiqvybisyqigrrojomsrtsyjhsaybb h.
Vyjo hsJ,sLnbblnbm,svyjhsjhsnhjomsIrmbih’hsfbhvsanvdbicspjvysq
zbombqoab.sQtvbipqiehsJsproebibesvybsdbhhsqvsvyjhsrgbiqvjrospybosJsaqub
vrs orpsrtspyqvstjobshvbbdsvybsybqesrtsqsyqigrrosjhsuqeb,sqoesyrp
bxabbejomdcshyqigsvybsdromshviqjmyvsbembhsqibsqdpqchs bgv.

Vybsibhvsrtsyjhsvrjdbvspqhshrrosqayjbzbe,sqoesybsgirnedcsuqiaybesrnvsrt
vybsirru,spiqggbesngsjosyjhsmibqvsgjdrvsuro bcskqa bv,sqoeshgrivjomsyjh
yqigrrosdj bsqsuqihyqd’hsfqvro.


AYQGVBIs5.sFibq tqhv.

Jslnja dcstrddrpbeshnjv,sqoesebhaboejomsjovrsvybsfqi-irrusqaarhvbesvyb
mijoojomsdqoedrieszbicsgdbqhqovdc.sJsaybijhybesorsuqdjabsvrpqiehsyju,
vyrnmysybsyqesfbbosh cdqi jomspjvysubsorvsqsdjvvdbsjosvybsuqvvbisrtsuc
fbetbddrp.

Yrpbzbi,sqsmrresdqnmysjhsqsujmyvcsmrresvyjom,sqoesiqvybisvrrshaqiabsq
mrresvyjom;svybsurib’hsvybsgjvc.sHr,sjtsqocsrobsuqo,sjosyjhsrposgirgbi
gbihro,sqttrieshvnttstrisqsmrreskr bsvrsqocfrec,sdbvsyjusorvsfb
fqa pqie,sfnvsdbvsyjusaybbitnddcsqddrpsyjuhbdtsvrshgboesqoesfbshgbovsjo
vyqvspqc.sQoesvybsuqosvyqvsyqhsqocvyjomsfrnovjtnddcsdqnmyqfdbsqfrnv
yju,sfbshnibsvybibsjhsuribsjosvyqvsuqosvyqoscrnsgbiyqghsvyjo stri.

Vybsfqi-irruspqhsorpstnddsrtsvybsfrqiebihspyrsyqesfbboseirggjomsjosvyb
ojmyvsgibzjrnh,sqoespyrusJsyqesorvsqhscbvsyqesqsmrresdrr sqv.sVybcspbib
obqidcsqddspyqdbubo;sayjbtsuqvbh,sqoeshbaroesuqvbh,sqoesvyjiesuqvbh,
qoeshbqsaqigbovbih,sqoeshbqsarrgbih,sqoeshbqsfdqa hujvyh,sqoe
yqigrrobbih,sqoeshyjgs bbgbih;sqsfirposqoesfiqpocsarugqoc,spjvysfrh c
fbqieh;sqosnohyrio,shyqmmcshbv,sqddspbqijomsuro bcskqa bvhstrisuriojom
mrpoh.

Crnsarndesgibvvcsgdqjodcsvbddsyrpsdromsbqaysrobsyqesfbbosqhyrib.sVyjh
crnomstbddrp’hsybqdvycsaybb sjhsdj bsqshno-vrqhvbesgbqisjosynb,sqoe
prndeshbbusvrshubddsqdurhvsqhsunh c;sybsaqoorvsyqzbsfbbosvyibbseqch
dqoebestirusyjhsJoejqoszrcqmb.sVyqvsuqosobxvsyjusdrr hsqstbpshyqebh
djmyvbi;scrnsujmyvshqcsqsvrnaysrtshqvjosprresjhsjosyju.sJosvyb
arugdbxjrosrtsqsvyjieshvjddsdjombihsqsvirgjasvqpo,sfnvshdjmyvdc
fdbqaybespjvyqd;s_yb_sernfvdbhhsyqhsvqiijbespyrdbspbb hsqhyrib.sFnvspyr
arndeshyrpsqsaybb sdj bsLnbblnbm?spyjay,sfqiibespjvyszqijrnhsvjovh,
hbbubesdj bsvybsQoebh’spbhvbioshdrgb,svrshyrpstrivysjosrobsqiiqc,
aroviqhvjomsadjuqvbh,swrobsfcswrob.

“Minf,syr!”sorpsaijbesvybsdqoedrie,stdjomjomsrgbosqserri,sqoesjospb
pbovsvrsfibq tqhv.

Vybcshqcsvyqvsubospyrsyqzbshbbosvybspride,svybibfcsfbarubslnjvbsqvsbqhb
josuqoobi,slnjvbshbdt-grhhbhhbesjosarugqoc.sOrvsqdpqch,svyrnmy:
Dbecqie,svybsmibqvsObpsBomdqoesviqzbddbi,sqoesUnomrsGqi ,svybsHarvay
rob;srtsqddsubo,svybcsgrhhbhhbesvybsdbqhvsqhhniqoabsjosvybsgqidri.sFnv
gbiyqghsvybsubibsairhhjomsrtsHjfbijqsjosqshdbembseiqposfcsermhsqh
Dbecqieseje,srisvybsvq jomsqsdromshrdjvqicspqd srosqosbugvcshvruqay,sjo
vybsobmirsybqivsrtsQtijaq,spyjayspqhsvybshnusrtsgrrisUnomr’h
gbitriuqoabh—vyjhs joesrtsviqzbd,sJshqc,suqcsorvsfbsvybszbicsfbhvsureb
rtsqvvqjojomsqsyjmyshrajqdsgrdjhy.sHvjdd,strisvybsurhvsgqiv,svyqvshriv
rtsvyjomsjhsvrsfbsyqesqocpybib.

Vybhbsibtdbavjrohsknhvsybibsqibsraaqhjrobesfcsvybsajianuhvqoabsvyqv
qtvbispbspbibsqddshbqvbesqvsvybsvqfdb,sqoesJspqhsgibgqijomsvrsybqishrub
mrreshvrijbhsqfrnvspyqdjom;svrsucsorshuqddshnigijhb,sobqidcsbzbicsuqo
uqjovqjobesqsgirtrnoeshjdboab.sQoesorvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvsvybcsdrr be
bufqiiqhhbe.sCbh,sybibspbibsqshbvsrtshbq-ermh,suqocsrtspyruspjvyrnvsvyb
hdjmyvbhvsfqhytndobhhsyqesfrqiebesmibqvspyqdbhsrosvybsyjmyshbqh—bovjib
hviqombihsvrsvybu—qoesenbddbesvybusebqespjvyrnvspjo jom;sqoescbv,sybib
vybcshqvsqvsqshrajqdsfibq tqhvsvqfdb—qddsrtsvybshqubsaqddjom,sqddsrt
 joeibesvqhvbh—drr jomsirnoesqhshybbgjhydcsqvsbqaysrvybisqhsvyrnmysvybc
yqesobzbisfbbosrnvsrtshjmyvsrtshrubshybbgtrdesquromsvybsMibbo
Urnovqjoh.sQsanijrnhshjmyv;svybhbsfqhytndsfbqih,svybhbsvjujespqiijri
pyqdbubo!

FnvsqhstrisLnbblnbm—pyc,sLnbblnbmshqvsvybibsquromsvybu—qvsvybsybqesrt
vybsvqfdb,svrr,sjvshrsayqoabe;sqhsarrdsqhsqosjajadb.sVrsfbshnibsJ
aqoorvshqcsunaystrisyjhsfibbejom.sYjhsmibqvbhvsqeujibisarndesorvsyqzb
ariejqddcsknhvjtjbesyjhsfijomjomsyjhsyqigrrosjovrsfibq tqhvspjvysyju,
qoesnhjomsjvsvybibspjvyrnvsabiburoc;sibqayjomsrzbisvybsvqfdbspjvysjv,
vrsvybsjuujobovskbrgqiecsrtsuqocsybqeh,sqoesmiqggdjomsvybsfbbthvbq h
vrpqiehsyju.sFnvs_vyqv_spqhsabivqjodcszbicsarrddcserobsfcsyju,sqoe
bzbicsrobs orphsvyqvsjosurhvsgbrgdb’hsbhvjuqvjro,svrsersqocvyjomsarrddc
jhsvrsersjvsmbovbbddc.

Pbspjddsorvshgbq srtsqddsLnbblnbm’hsgbandjqijvjbhsybib;syrpsybsbhaybpbe
arttbbsqoesyrvsirddh,sqoesqggdjbesyjhsnoejzjebesqvvbovjrosvr
fbbthvbq h,serobsiqib.sBornmy,svyqvspybosfibq tqhvspqhsrzbisybspjvyeibp
dj bsvybsibhvsjovrsvybsgnfdjasirru,sdjmyvbesyjhsvruqyqp -gjgb,sqoespqh
hjvvjomsvybibslnjbvdcsejmbhvjomsqoeshur jomspjvysyjhsjohbgqiqfdbsyqv
ro,spybosJshqddjbesrnvstrisqshvirdd.


AYQGVBIs6.sVybsHvibbv.

JtsJsyqesfbbosqhvrojhybesqvstjihvsaqvayjomsqsmdjughbsrtshrsrnvdqoejhy
qosjoejzjenqdsqhsLnbblnbmsajiandqvjomsquromsvybsgrdjvbshrajbvcsrtsq
ajzjdjwbesvrpo,svyqvsqhvrojhyubovshrrosebgqivbesngrosvq jomsucstjihv
eqcdjmyvshvirddsvyirnmysvybshvibbvhsrtsObpsFbetrie.

Josvyrirnmytqibhsojmysvybsera h,sqocsarohjebiqfdbshbqgrivspjdd
tiblnbovdcsrttbisvrszjbpsvybslnbbibhvsdrr jomsoroebhaijgvhstirustribjmo
gqivh.sBzbosjosFirqepqcsqoesAybhvonvshvibbvh,sUbejvbiiqobqosuqijobih
pjddshrubvjubhskrhvdbsvybsqttijmyvbesdqejbh.sIbmbovsHvibbvsjhsorv
no orposvrsDqhaqihsqoesUqdqch;sqoesqvsFrufqc,sjosvybsQgrddrsMibbo,sdjzb
Cqo bbhsyqzbsrtvboshaqibesvybsoqvjzbh.sFnvsObpsFbetriesfbqvhsqddsPqvbi
HvibbvsqoesPqggjom.sJosvybhbsdqhv-ubovjrobesyqnovhscrnshbbsrodc
hqjdrih;sfnvsjosObpsFbetrie,sqavnqdsaqoojfqdhshvqoesayqvvjomsqvshvibbv
ariobih;shqzqmbhsrnvijmyv;suqocsrtspyruscbvsaqiicsrosvybjisfrobhsnoyrdc
tdbhy.sJvsuq bhsqshviqombishvqib.

Fnv,sfbhjebhsvybsTbbmbbqoh,sVromqvrfrrqiih,sBiiruqommrqoh,sGqooqomjqoh,
qoesFijmymmjqoh,sqoe,sfbhjebhsvybspjdeshgbajubohsrtsvybspyqdjom-aiqtv
pyjaysnoybbebesibbdsqfrnvsvybshvibbvh,scrnspjddshbbsrvybishjmyvhshvjdd
uribsanijrnh,sabivqjodcsuribsarujaqd.sVybibspbb dcsqiijzbsjosvyjhsvrpo
haribhsrtsmibbosZbiurovbihsqoesObpsYqughyjibsubo,sqddsqvyjihvstrismqjo
qoesmdricsjosvybstjhybic.sVybcsqibsurhvdcscrnom,srtshvqdpqivstiqubh;
tbddrphspyrsyqzbstbddbestribhvh,sqoesorpshbb svrseirgsvybsqxbsqoe
hoqvaysvybspyqdb-dqoab.sUqocsqibsqhsmibbosqhsvybsMibbosUrnovqjohspyboab
vybcsaqub.sJoshrubsvyjomhscrnsprndesvyjo svybusfnvsqstbpsyrnihsrde.
Drr svybib!svyqvsayqgshvinvvjomsirnoesvybsariobi.sYbspbqihsqsfbqzbisyqv
qoeshpqddrp-vqjdbesarqv,smjiedbespjvysqshqjdri-fbdvsqoeshybqvy- ojtb.
Ybibsarubhsqorvybispjvysqshrn’-pbhvbisqoesqsfrufqwjobsadrq .

Orsvrpo-fibeseqoecspjddsarugqibspjvysqsarnovic-fibesrob—Jsubqosq
erpoijmyvsfnug joseqoec—qstbddrpsvyqv,sjosvybserm-eqch,spjddsurpsyjh
vprsqaibhsjosfna h josmdrzbhstristbqisrtsvqoojomsyjhsyqoeh.sOrpspybosq
arnovicseqoecsdj bsvyjhsvq bhsjvsjovrsyjhsybqesvrsuq bsqsejhvjomnjhybe
ibgnvqvjro,sqoeskrjohsvybsmibqvspyqdb-tjhybic,scrnshyrndeshbbsvyb
arujaqdsvyjomhsybserbhsngrosibqayjomsvybshbqgriv.sJosfbhgbq jomsyjh
hbq-rnvtjv,sybsriebihsfbdd-fnvvrohsvrsyjhspqjhvarqvh;shviqghsvrsyjh
aqozqhsvirphbih.sQy,sgrrisYqc-Hbbe!syrpsfjvvbidcspjddsfnihvsvyrhb
hviqghsjosvybstjihvsyrpdjomsmqdb,spybosvyrnsqivseijzbo,shviqgh,
fnvvroh,sqoesqdd,serposvybsvyirqvsrtsvybsvbugbhv.

Fnvsvyjo sorvsvyqvsvyjhstqurnhsvrposyqhsrodcsyqigrrobbih,saqoojfqdh,
qoesfnug johsvrshyrpsybiszjhjvrih.sOrvsqvsqdd.sHvjddsObpsFbetriesjhsq
lnbbisgdqab.sYqesjvsorvsfbbostrisnhspyqdbubo,svyqvsviqavsrtsdqoesprnde
vyjhseqcsgbiyqghsyqzbsfbbosjosqhsyrpdjomsaroejvjrosqhsvybsarqhvsrt
Dqfiqeri.sQhsjvsjh,sgqivhsrtsybisfqa sarnovicsqibsbornmysvrstijmyvbo
rob,svybcsdrr shrsfroc.sVybsvrposjvhbdtsjhsgbiyqghsvybsebqibhvsgdqabsvr
djzbsjo,sjosqddsObpsBomdqoe.sJvsjhsqsdqoesrtsrjd,svinbsbornmy:sfnvsorv
dj bsAqoqqo;sqsdqoe,sqdhr,srtsariosqoespjob.sVybshvibbvhsersorvsino
pjvysujd ;sorisjosvybshgijom-vjubsersvybcsgqzbsvybuspjvystibhysbmmh.
Cbv,sjoshgjvbsrtsvyjh,sorpybibsjosqddsQubijaqspjddscrnstjoesurib
gqvijajqo-dj bsyrnhbh;sgqi hsqoesmqiebohsuribsrgndbov,svyqosjosObp
Fbetrie.sPyboabsaqubsvybc?syrpsgdqovbesngrosvyjhsroabshaiqmmcsharijqsrt
qsarnovic?

Mrsqoesmqwbsngrosvybsjirosbufdbuqvjaqdsyqigrrohsirnoescroebisdrtvc
uqohjro,sqoescrnislnbhvjrospjddsfbsqohpbibe.sCbh;sqddsvybhbsfiqzb
yrnhbhsqoestdrpbicsmqiebohsaqubstirusvybsQvdqovja,sGqajtja,sqoesJoejqo
rabqoh.sRobsqoesqdd,svybcspbibsyqigrrobesqoeseiqmmbesngsyjvybistirusvyb
frvvrusrtsvybshbq.sAqosYbiisQdbxqoebisgbitriusqstbqvsdj bsvyqv?

JosObpsFbetrie,stqvybih,svybcshqc,smjzbspyqdbhstriserpbihsvrsvybji
eqnmyvbih,sqoesgrivjrosrttsvybjisojbabhspjvysqstbpsgrigrjhbhsq-gjbab.
CrnsunhvsmrsvrsObpsFbetriesvrshbbsqsfijddjqovspbeejom;stri,svybcshqc,
vybcsyqzbsibhbizrjihsrtsrjdsjosbzbicsyrnhb,sqoesbzbicsojmyvsiba dbhhdc
fniosvybjisdbomvyhsjoshgbiuqabvjsaqoedbh.

Joshnuubisvjub,svybsvrposjhshpbbvsvrshbb;stnddsrtstjobsuqgdbh—drom
qzbonbhsrtsmibbosqoesmrde.sQoesjosQnmnhv,syjmysjosqji,svybsfbqnvjtnd
qoesfrnovjtndsyrihb-aybhvonvh,saqoebdqfiq-pjhb,sgirttbisvybsgqhhbi-fc
vybjisvqgbijomsngijmyvsarobhsrtsaromibmqvbesfdrhhruh.sHrsruojgrvbovsjh
qiv;spyjaysjosuqocsqsejhvijavsrtsObpsFbetriesyqhshngbijoenabesfijmyv
vbiiqabhsrtstdrpbihsngrosvybsfqiibosibtnhbsira hsvyirposqhjebsqv
aibqvjro’hstjoqdseqc.

QoesvybsprubosrtsObpsFbetrie,svybcsfdrrusdj bsvybjisrposibesirhbh.sFnv
irhbhsrodcsfdrrusjoshnuubi;spybibqhsvybstjobsaqioqvjrosrtsvybjisaybb h
jhsgbiboojqdsqhshnodjmyvsjosvybshbzbovysybqzboh.sBdhbpybibsuqvaysvyqv
fdrrusrtsvybjih,scbsaqoorv,shqzbsjosHqdbu,spybibsvybcsvbddsubsvybscrnom
mjidhsfibqvybshnaysunh ,svybjishqjdrishpbbvybqivhshubddsvybusujdbhsrtt
hyrib,sqhsvyrnmysvybcspbibseiqpjomsojmysvybsrerirnhsUrdnaaqhsjohvbqesrt
vybsGnijvqojashqoeh.


AYQGVBIs7.sVybsAyqgbd.

JosvyjhshqubsObpsFbetriesvybibshvqoehsqsPyqdbuqo’hsAyqgbd,sqoestbpsqib
vybsurrecstjhybiubo,shyrivdcsfrnoestrisvybsJoejqosRabqosrisGqajtja,spyr
tqjdsvrsuq bsqsHnoeqcszjhjvsvrsvybshgrv.sJsqushnibsvyqvsJsejesorv.

Ibvniojomstirusucstjihvsuriojomshvirdd,sJsqmqjoshqddjbesrnvsngrosvyjh
hgbajqdsbiiqoe.sVybsh csyqesayqombestirusadbqi,shnoocsarde,svrseijzjom
hdbbvsqoesujhv.sPiqggjomsuchbdtsjosucshyqmmcskqa bvsrtsvybsadrvysaqddbe
fbqih jo,sJstrnmyvsucspqcsqmqjohvsvybshvnffrioshvriu.sBovbijom,sJstrnoe
qshuqddshaqvvbibesaromibmqvjrosrtshqjdrih,sqoeshqjdrih’spjzbhsqoe
pjerph.sQsunttdbeshjdboabsibjmobe,srodcsfir bosqvsvjubhsfcsvybshyijb h
rtsvybshvriu.sBqayshjdbovsprihyjggbishbbubesgnigrhbdcshjvvjomsqgqiv
tirusvybsrvybi,sqhsjtsbqayshjdbovsmijbtspbibsjohndqisqoe
joaruunojaqfdb.sVybsayqgdqjosyqesorvscbvsqiijzbe;sqoesvybibsvybhb
hjdbovsjhdqoehsrtsubosqoespruboshqvshvbqetqhvdcsbcbjomshbzbiqdsuqifdb
vqfdbvh,spjvysfdqa sfriebih,suqhrobesjovrsvybspqddsrosbjvybishjebsvyb
gndgjv.sVyibbsrtsvybusiqoshrubvyjomsdj bsvybstrddrpjom,sfnvsJsersorv
gibvboesvrslnrvb:—

HQAIBEsVRsVYBsUBURICsRTsKRYOsVQDFRV,sPyr,sqvsvybsqmbsrtsbjmyvbbo,spqh
drhvsrzbifrqie,sObqisvybsJhdbsrtsEbhrdqvjro,srttsGqvqmrojq,s_Orzbufbi_
1_hv_,s1836.sVYJHsVQFDBVsJhsbibavbesvrsyjhsUburicsFCsYJHsHJHVBI.

HQAIBEsVRsVYBsUBURICsRTsIRFBIVsDROM,sPJDDJHsBDDBIC,sOQVYQOsARDBUQO,
PQDVBIsAQOOC,sHBVYsUQAC,sQOEsHQUNBDsMDBJM,sTriujomsrobsrtsvybsfrqvh’
aibphsRTsVYBsHYJGsBDJWQsPyrspbibsvrpbesrnvsrtshjmyvsfcsqsPyqdb,sRosvyb
Rtt-hyribsMirnoesjosvybsGQAJTJA,s_Ebabufbi_s31_hv_,s1839.sVYJHsUQIFDB
JhsybibsgdqabesfcsvybjishnizjzjomsHYJGUQVBH.

HQAIBEsVRsVYBsUBURICsRTsVybsdqvbsAQGVQJOsBWB JBDsYQIEC,sPyrsjosvybsfrph
rtsyjhsfrqvspqhs jddbesfcsqsHgbiusPyqdbsrosvybsarqhvsrtsKqgqo,s_Qnmnhv_
3_e_,s1833.sVYJHsVQFDBVsJhsbibavbesvrsyjhsUburicsFCsYJHsPJERP.

Hyq jomsrttsvybshdbbvstirusucsjab-mdqwbesyqvsqoeskqa bv,sJshbqvbe
uchbdtsobqisvybserri,sqoesvniojomshjebpqchspqhshnigijhbesvrshbb
Lnbblnbmsobqisub.sQttbavbesfcsvybshrdbuojvcsrtsvybshabob,svybibspqhsq
proebijomsmqwbsrtsjoaibendrnhsanijrhjvcsjosyjhsarnovboqoab.sVyjhshqzqmb
pqhsvybsrodcsgbihrosgibhbovspyrshbbubesvrsorvjabsucsboviqoab;sfbaqnhb
ybspqhsvybsrodcsrobspyrsarndesorvsibqe,sqoe,svybibtrib,spqhsorvsibqejom
vyrhbstijmjesjohaijgvjrohsrosvybspqdd.sPybvybisqocsrtsvybsibdqvjzbhsrt
vybshbqubospyrhbsoqubhsqggbqibesvybibspbibsorpsquromsvybsaromibmqvjro,
Js obpsorv;sfnvshrsuqocsqibsvybsnoibariebesqaajebovhsjosvybstjhybic,
qoeshrsgdqjodcsejeshbzbiqdsprubosgibhbovspbqisvybsarnovboqoabsjtsorv
vybsviqggjomhsrtshrubsnoabqhjomsmijbt,svyqvsJstbbdshnibsvyqvsybib
fbtribsubspbibsqhhbufdbesvyrhb,sjospyrhbsnoybqdjomsybqivhsvybshjmyvsrt
vyrhbsfdbq svqfdbvhshcugqvybvjaqddcsaqnhbesvybsrdesprnoehsvrsfdbbe
qtibhy.

Ry!scbspyrhbsebqesdjbsfnijbesfbobqvysvybsmibbosmiqhh;spyrshvqoejom
quromstdrpbihsaqoshqc—ybib,s_ybib_sdjbhsucsfbdrzbe;scbs orpsorvsvyb
ebhrdqvjrosvyqvsfirrehsjosfrhruhsdj bsvybhb.sPyqvsfjvvbisfdqo hsjo
vyrhbsfdqa -friebibesuqifdbhspyjaysarzbisorsqhybh!sPyqvsebhgqjisjo
vyrhbsjuurzqfdbsjohaijgvjroh!sPyqvsebqedcszrjehsqoesnofjeebo
jotjebdjvjbhsjosvybsdjobhsvyqvshbbusvrsmoqpsngrosqddsTqjvy,sqoesibtnhb
ibhniibavjrohsvrsvybsfbjomhspyrsyqzbsgdqabdbhhdcsgbijhybespjvyrnvsq
miqzb.sQhspbddsujmyvsvyrhbsvqfdbvhshvqoesjosvybsaqzbsrtsBdbgyqovqsqh
ybib.

Jospyqvsabohnhsrtsdjzjomsaibqvnibh,svybsebqesrtsuqo joesqibsjoadnebe;
pycsjvsjhsvyqvsqsnojzbihqdsgirzbifshqchsrtsvybu,svyqvsvybcsvbddsor
vqdbh,svyrnmysarovqjojomsuribshbaibvhsvyqosvybsMrrepjosHqoeh;syrpsjvsjh
vyqvsvrsyjhsoqubspyrscbhvbieqcsebgqivbestrisvybsrvybispride,spbsgibtjx
hrshjmojtjaqovsqoesjotjebdsqsprie,sqoescbvsersorvsvynhsbovjvdbsyju,sjt
ybsfnvsbufqi hstrisvybsiburvbhvsJoejbhsrtsvyjhsdjzjomsbqivy;spycsvyb
DjtbsJohniqoabsArugqojbhsgqcsebqvy-tritbjvnibhsngrosjuurivqdh;sjospyqv
bvbioqd,snohvjiijomsgqiqdchjh,sqoesebqedc,syrgbdbhhsviqoab,scbvsdjbh
qovjlnbsQequspyrsejbeshjxvcsirnoesabovnijbhsqmr;syrpsjvsjhsvyqvspb
hvjddsibtnhbsvrsfbsarutrivbestrisvyrhbspyrspbsobzbivybdbhhsuqjovqjosqib
epbddjomsjosnohgbq qfdbsfdjhh;spycsqddsvybsdjzjomshrshvijzbsvrsynhysqdd
vybsebqe;spybibtribsfnvsvybsinurisrtsqs ora jomsjosqsvrufspjddsvbiijtc
qspyrdbsajvc.sQddsvybhbsvyjomhsqibsorvspjvyrnvsvybjisubqojomh.

FnvsTqjvy,sdj bsqskqa qd,stbbehsquromsvybsvrufh,sqoesbzbostirusvybhb
ebqesernfvhshybsmqvybihsybisurhvszjvqdsyrgb.

Jvsobbehshaqiabdcsvrsfbsvrde,spjvyspyqvstbbdjomh,srosvybsbzbsrtsq
Oqovna bvszrcqmb,sJsibmqiebesvyrhbsuqifdbsvqfdbvh,sqoesfcsvybsuni c
djmyvsrtsvyqvseqi bobe,serdbtndseqcsibqesvybstqvbsrtsvybspyqdbubospyr
yqesmrobsfbtribsub.sCbh,sJhyuqbd,svybshqubstqvbsuqcsfbsvyjob.sFnv
hrubyrpsJsmibpsubiicsqmqjo.sEbdjmyvtndsjoenabubovhsvrsbufqi ,stjob
ayqoabstrisgirurvjro,sjvshbbuh—qcb,sqshvrzbsfrqvspjddsuq bsubsqo
juurivqdsfcsfibzbv.sCbh,svybibsjhsebqvysjosvyjhsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom—q
hgbbaydbhhdcslnja sayqrvjasfnoedjomsrtsqsuqosjovrsBvbiojvc.sFnvspyqv
vybo?sUbvyjo hspbsyqzbsynmbdcsujhvq bosvyjhsuqvvbisrtsDjtbsqoesEbqvy.
Ubvyjo hsvyqvspyqvsvybcsaqddsucshyqerpsybibsrosbqivysjhsucsvinb
hnfhvqoab.sUbvyjo hsvyqvsjosdrr jomsqvsvyjomhshgjijvnqd,spbsqibsvrr
unaysdj bsrchvbihsrfhbizjomsvybshnosvyirnmysvybspqvbi,sqoesvyjo jom
vyqvsvyja spqvbisvybsvyjoobhvsrtsqji.sUbvyjo hsucsfrecsjhsfnvsvybsdbbh
rtsucsfbvvbisfbjom.sJostqavsvq bsucsfrecspyrspjdd,svq bsjvsJshqc,sjvsjh
orvsub.sQoesvybibtribsvyibbsaybbihstrisOqovna bv;sqoesarubsqshvrzbsfrqv
qoeshvrzbsfrecspybosvybcspjdd,strishvqzbsucshrnd,sKrzbsyjuhbdtsaqoorv.


AYQGVBIs8.sVybsGndgjv.

Jsyqesorvsfbboshbqvbeszbicsdromsbibsqsuqosrtsqsabivqjoszbobiqfdb
irfnhvobhhsbovbibe;sjuubejqvbdcsqhsvybshvriu-gbdvbeserristdbpsfqa sngro
qeujvvjomsyju,sqslnja sibmqietndsbcbjomsrtsyjusfcsqddsvybsaromibmqvjro,
hnttjajbovdcsqvvbhvbesvyqvsvyjhstjobsrdesuqospqhsvybsayqgdqjo.sCbh,sjv
pqhsvybstqurnhsTqvybisUqggdb,shrsaqddbesfcsvybspyqdbubo,squromspyrusyb
pqhsqszbicsmibqvstqzrnijvb.sYbsyqesfbbosqshqjdrisqoesqsyqigrrobbisjo
yjhscrnvy,sfnvstrisuqocscbqihsgqhvsyqesebejaqvbesyjhsdjtbsvrsvyb
ujojhvic.sQvsvybsvjubsJsorpspijvbsrt,sTqvybisUqggdbspqhsjosvybsyqiec
pjovbisrtsqsybqdvycsrdesqmb;svyqvshrivsrtsrdesqmbspyjayshbbuhsubimjom
jovrsqshbaroestdrpbijomscrnvy,strisquromsqddsvybstjhhnibhsrtsyjh
pijo dbh,svybibshyrobsabivqjosujdesmdbquhsrtsqsobpdcsebzbdrgjom
fdrru—vybshgijomszbienibsgbbgjomstrivysbzbosfbobqvysTbfinqic’hshorp.sOr
robsyqzjomsgibzjrnhdcsybqiesyjhsyjhvric,sarndestrisvybstjihvsvjub
fbyrdesTqvybisUqggdbspjvyrnvsvybsnvurhvsjovbibhv,sfbaqnhbsvybibspbib
abivqjosbomiqtvbesadbijaqdsgbandjqijvjbhsqfrnvsyju,sjugnvqfdbsvrsvyqv
qezbovnirnhsuqijvjubsdjtbsybsyqesdbe.sPybosybsbovbibesJsrfhbizbesvyqv
ybsaqiijbesorsnufibddq,sqoesabivqjodcsyqesorvsarubsjosyjhsaqiijqmb,stri
yjhsvqigqndjosyqvsiqoserpospjvysubdvjomshdbbv,sqoesyjhsmibqvsgjdrv
adrvyskqa bvshbbubesqdurhvsvrseiqmsyjusvrsvybstdrrispjvysvybspbjmyvsrt
vybspqvbisjvsyqesqfhrifbe.sYrpbzbi,syqvsqoesarqvsqoesrzbihyrbhspbibsrob
fcsrobsiburzbe,sqoesynomsngsjosqsdjvvdbshgqabsjosqosqekqabovsariobi;
pybo,sqiiqcbesjosqsebabovshnjv,sybslnjbvdcsqggirqaybesvybsgndgjv.

Dj bsurhvsrdestqhyjrobesgndgjvh,sjvspqhsqszbicsdrtvcsrob,sqoeshjoabsq
ibmndqishvqjihsvrshnaysqsybjmyvsprnde,sfcsjvhsdromsqomdbspjvysvyb
tdrri,shbijrnhdcsaroviqavsvybsqdibqecshuqddsqibqsrtsvybsayqgbd,svyb
qiayjvbav,sjvshbbube,syqesqavbesngrosvybsyjovsrtsTqvybisUqggdb,sqoe
tjojhybesvybsgndgjvspjvyrnvsqshvqjih,shnfhvjvnvjomsqsgbigboejandqishjeb
dqeebi,sdj bsvyrhbsnhbesjosurnovjomsqshyjgstirusqsfrqvsqvshbq.sVybspjtb
rtsqspyqdjomsaqgvqjosyqesgirzjebesvybsayqgbdspjvysqsyqoehrubsgqjisrt
ibesprihvbesuqo-irgbhstrisvyjhsdqeebi,spyjay,sfbjomsjvhbdtsojabdc
ybqebe,sqoeshvqjobespjvysqsuqyrmqocsardrni,svybspyrdbsarovijzqoab,
arohjebijomspyqvsuqoobisrtsayqgbdsjvspqh,shbbubesfcsorsubqohsjosfqe
vqhvb.sYqdvjomstrisqosjohvqovsqvsvybstrrvsrtsvybsdqeebi,sqoespjvysfrvy
yqoehsmiqhgjomsvybsrioqubovqds orfhsrtsvybsuqo-irgbh,sTqvybisUqggdb
aqhvsqsdrr sngpqieh,sqoesvybospjvysqsvindcshqjdri-dj bsfnvshvjdd
ibzbibovjqdsebxvbijvc,syqoesrzbisyqoe,surnovbesvybshvbghsqhsjt
qhaboejomsvybsuqjo-vrgsrtsyjhszbhhbd.

Vybsgbigboejandqisgqivhsrtsvyjhshjebsdqeebi,sqhsjhsnhnqddcsvybsaqhb
pjvyshpjomjomsrobh,spbibsrtsadrvy-arzbibesirgb,srodcsvybsirnoehspbibsrt
prre,shrsvyqvsqvsbzbicshvbgsvybibspqhsqskrjov.sQvsucstjihvsmdjughbsrt
vybsgndgjv,sjvsyqesorvsbhaqgbesubsvyqvsyrpbzbisarozbojbovstrisqshyjg,
vybhbskrjovhsjosvybsgibhbovsjohvqoabshbbubesnoobabhhqic.sTrisJspqhsorv
gibgqibesvrshbbsTqvybisUqggdbsqtvbismqjojomsvybsybjmyv,shdrpdcsvnio
irnoe,sqoeshvrrgjomsrzbisvybsgndgjv,sebdjfbiqvbdcseiqmsngsvybsdqeebi
hvbgsfcshvbg,svjddsvybspyrdbspqhsebgrhjvbespjvyjo,sdbqzjomsyju
jugibmoqfdbsjosyjhsdjvvdbsLnbfba.

Jsgroebibeshrubsvjubspjvyrnvstnddcsarugibyboejomsvybsibqhrostrisvyjh.
TqvybisUqggdbsbokrcbeshnaysqspjebsibgnvqvjrostrishjoabijvcsqoe
hqoavjvc,svyqvsJsarndesorvshnhgbavsyjusrtsarnivjomsorvrijbvcsfcsqoc
ubibsvija hsrtsvybshvqmb.sOr,svyrnmyvsJ,svybibsunhvsfbshrubshrfbi
ibqhrostrisvyjhsvyjom;stnivybiurib,sjvsunhvshcufrdjwbshrubvyjomsnohbbo.
Aqosjvsfb,svybo,svyqvsfcsvyqvsqavsrtsgychjaqdsjhrdqvjro,sybshjmojtjbh
yjhshgjijvnqdspjvyeiqpqdstrisvybsvjub,stirusqddsrnvpqiespridedcsvjbh
qoesaroobxjroh?sCbh,strisibgdbojhybespjvysvybsubqvsqoespjobsrtsvyb
prie,svrsvybstqjvytndsuqosrtsMre,svyjhsgndgjv,sJshbb,sjhsq
hbdt-arovqjojomshviromyrde—qsdrtvcsByibofibjvhvbjo,spjvysqsgbiboojqd
pbddsrtspqvbispjvyjosvybspqddh.

Fnvsvybshjebsdqeebispqhsorvsvybsrodcshviqombstbqvnibsrtsvybsgdqab,
friirpbestirusvybsayqgdqjo’hstriubishbq-tqijomh.sFbvpbbosvybsuqifdb
aborvqgyhsrosbjvybisyqoesrtsvybsgndgjv,svybspqddspyjaystriubesjvhsfqa 
pqhsqeriobespjvysqsdqimbsgqjovjomsibgibhbovjomsqsmqddqovshyjgsfbqvjom
qmqjohvsqsvbiijfdbshvriusrttsqsdbbsarqhvsrtsfdqa sira hsqoeshorpc
fibq bih.sFnvsyjmysqfrzbsvybstdcjomshanesqoeseqi -irddjomsadrneh,svybib
tdrqvbesqsdjvvdbsjhdbsrtshnodjmyv,stiruspyjaysfbqubestrivysqosqombd’h
tqab;sqoesvyjhsfijmyvstqabshybesqsejhvjoavshgrvsrtsiqejqoabsngrosvyb
hyjg’hsvrhhbeseba ,shrubvyjomsdj bsvyqvshjdzbisgdqvbsorpsjohbivbesjovr
vybsZjavric’hsgdqo spybibsObdhrostbdd.s“Qy,sorfdbshyjg,”svybsqombd
hbbubesvrshqc,s“fbqvsro,sfbqvsro,svyrnsorfdbshyjg,sqoesfbqisqsyqiec
ybdu;strisdr!svybshnosjhsfibq jomsvyirnmy;svybsadrnehsqibsirddjom
rtt—hbibobhvsqwnibsjhsqvsyqoe.”

Orispqhsvybsgndgjvsjvhbdtspjvyrnvsqsviqabsrtsvybshqubshbq-vqhvbsvyqv
yqesqayjbzbesvybsdqeebisqoesvybsgjavnib.sJvhsgqobddbestirovspqhsjosvyb
dj bobhhsrtsqshyjg’hsfdnttsfrph,sqoesvybsYrdcsFjfdbsibhvbesrosq
girkbavjomsgjbabsrtshairddspri ,stqhyjrobesqtvbisqshyjg’hstjeedb-ybqebe
fbq .

Pyqvsarndesfbsuribstnddsrtsubqojom?—trisvybsgndgjvsjhsbzbisvyjhsbqivy’h
triburhvsgqiv;sqddsvybsibhvsarubhsjosjvhsibqi;svybsgndgjvsdbqehsvyb
pride.sTirusvyboabsjvsjhsvybshvriusrtsMre’hslnja spiqvysjhstjihv
ebhaijbe,sqoesvybsfrpsunhvsfbqisvybsbqidjbhvsfinov.sTirusvyboabsjvsjh
vybsMresrtsfibbwbhstqjisristrndsjhstjihvsjozr bestristqzrniqfdbspjoeh.
Cbh,svybspride’hsqshyjgsrosjvhsgqhhqmbsrnv,sqoesorvsqszrcqmbsarugdbvb;
qoesvybsgndgjvsjhsjvhsgirp.


AYQGVBIs9.sVybsHbiuro.

TqvybisUqggdbsirhb,sqoesjosqsujdeszrjabsrtsnoqhhnujomsqnvyrijvcsriebibe
vybshaqvvbibesgbrgdbsvrsaroebohb.s“Hvqifrqiesmqompqc,svybib!shjebsqpqc
vrsdqifrqie—dqifrqiesmqompqcsvrshvqifrqie!sUjehyjgh!sujehyjgh!”

Vybibspqhsqsdrpsinufdjomsrtsybqzcshbq-frrvhsquromsvybsfboaybh,sqoesq
hvjddshdjmyvbishynttdjomsrtsprubo’hshyrbh,sqoesqddspqhslnjbvsqmqjo,sqoe
bzbicsbcbsrosvybsgibqaybi.

Ybsgqnhbesqsdjvvdb;svybos obbdjomsjosvybsgndgjv’hsfrph,strdebesyjh
dqimbsfirposyqoehsqairhhsyjhsaybhv,sngdjtvbesyjhsadrhbesbcbh,sqoe
rttbibesqsgiqcbishrsebbgdcsebzrnvsvyqvsybshbbubes obbdjomsqoesgiqcjom
qvsvybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbq.

Vyjhsboebe,sjosgirdrombeshrdbuosvrobh,sdj bsvybsarovjonqdsvrddjomsrtsq
fbddsjosqshyjgsvyqvsjhstrnoebijomsqvshbqsjosqstrm—joshnaysvrobhsyb
aruuboabesibqejomsvybstrddrpjomsycuo;sfnvsayqomjomsyjhsuqoobisvrpqieh
vybsaroadnejomshvqowqh,sfnihvstrivyspjvysqsgbqdjomsbxndvqvjrosqoeskrc—


ss“Vybsijfhsqoesvbiirihsjosvybspyqdb,sQiaybesrzbisubsqsejhuqdsmdrru,
ssPyjdbsqddsMre’hshno-djvspqzbhsirddbesfc,sQoesdjtvsubsebbgbojomserpo
ssvrserru.

ss“Jshqpsvybsrgbojomsuqpsrtsybdd,sPjvysboedbhhsgqjohsqoeshriirphsvybib;
ssPyjaysorobsfnvsvybcsvyqvstbbdsaqosvbdd—sRy,sJspqhsgdnomjomsvr
ssebhgqji.

ss“Josfdqa sejhvibhh,sJsaqddbesucsMre,sPybosJsarndeshaqiabsfbdjbzbsyju
ssujob,sYbsfrpbesyjhsbqisvrsucsarugdqjovh—sOrsuribsvybspyqdbsejesub
ssarotjob.

ss“Pjvyshgbbesybstdbpsvrsucsibdjbt,sQhsrosqsiqejqovserdgyjosfriob;
ssQptnd,scbvsfijmyv,sqhsdjmyvojomshyrobsVybstqabsrtsucsEbdjzbibisMre.

ss“UcshromstrisbzbishyqddsibariesVyqvsvbiijfdb,svyqvskrctndsyrni;sJ
ssmjzbsvybsmdricsvrsucsMre,sYjhsqddsvybsubiacsqoesvybsgrpbi.”




Obqidcsqddskrjobesjoshjomjomsvyjhsycuo,spyjayshpbddbesyjmysqfrzbsvyb
yrpdjomsrtsvybshvriu.sQsfijbtsgqnhbsbohnbe;svybsgibqaybishdrpdcsvniobe
rzbisvybsdbqzbhsrtsvybsFjfdb,sqoesqvsdqhv,strdejomsyjhsyqoeserposngro
vybsgirgbisgqmb,shqje:s“Fbdrzbeshyjguqvbh,sadjoaysvybsdqhvszbihbsrtsvyb
tjihvsayqgvbisrtsKroqy—‘QoesMresyqesgibgqibesqsmibqvstjhysvrshpqddrpsng
Kroqy.’”

“Hyjguqvbh,svyjhsfrr ,sarovqjojomsrodcstrnisayqgvbih—trniscqioh—jhsrob
rtsvybshuqddbhvshviqoehsjosvybsujmyvcsaqfdbsrtsvybsHaijgvnibh.sCbvspyqv
ebgvyhsrtsvybshrndserbhsKroqy’hsebbgshbqdjobshrnoe!spyqvsqsgibmoqov
dbhhrosvrsnhsjhsvyjhsgirgybv!sPyqvsqsorfdbsvyjomsjhsvyqvsaqovjadbsjo
vybstjhy’hsfbddc!sYrpsfjddrp-dj bsqoesfrjhvbirnhdcsmiqoe!sPbstbbdsvyb
tdrrehshnimjomsrzbisnh;spbshrnoespjvysyjusvrsvybs bdgcsfrvvrusrtsvyb
pqvbih;shbq-pbbesqoesqddsvybshdjubsrtsvybshbqsjhsqfrnvsnh!sFnvs_pyqv_
jhsvyjhsdbhhrosvyqvsvybsfrr srtsKroqysvbqaybh?sHyjguqvbh,sjvsjhsq
vpr-hviqoebesdbhhro;sqsdbhhrosvrsnhsqddsqhshjotndsubo,sqoesqsdbhhrosvr
ubsqhsqsgjdrvsrtsvybsdjzjomsMre.sQhshjotndsubo,sjvsjhsqsdbhhrosvrsnh
qdd,sfbaqnhbsjvsjhsqshvricsrtsvybshjo,syqie-ybqivbeobhh,shneebodc
qpq bobestbqih,svybshpjtvsgnojhyubov,sibgbovqoab,sgiqcbih,sqoestjoqddc
vybsebdjzbiqoabsqoeskrcsrtsKroqy.sQhspjvysqddshjoobihsquromsubo,svyb
hjosrtsvyjhshrosrtsQujvvqjspqhsjosyjhspjdtndsejhrfbejboabsrtsvyb
aruuqoesrtsMre—obzbisujoesorpspyqvsvyqvsaruuqoespqh,srisyrp
arozbcbe—pyjaysybstrnoesqsyqiesaruuqoe.sFnvsqddsvybsvyjomhsvyqvsMre
prndesyqzbsnhsersqibsyqiestrisnhsvrser—ibubufbisvyqv—qoesyboab,syb
rtvbobisaruuqoehsnhsvyqosboebqzrihsvrsgbihnqeb.sQoesjtspbsrfbcsMre,spb
unhvsejhrfbcsrnihbdzbh;sqoesjvsjhsjosvyjhsejhrfbcjomsrnihbdzbh,spybibjo
vybsyqieobhhsrtsrfbcjomsMresarohjhvh.

“Pjvysvyjhshjosrtsejhrfbejboabsjosyju,sKroqyshvjddstnivybistdrnvhsqv
Mre,sfcshbb jomsvrstdbbstirusYju.sYbsvyjo hsvyqvsqshyjgsuqebsfcsubo
pjddsaqiicsyjusjovrsarnovijbhspybibsMreserbhsorvsibjmo,sfnvsrodcsvyb
Aqgvqjohsrtsvyjhsbqivy.sYbsh nd hsqfrnvsvybspyqizbhsrtsKrggq,sqoeshbb h
qshyjgsvyqv’hsfrnoestrisVqihyjhy.sVybibsdni h,sgbiyqgh,sqsyjvybivr
noybbebesubqojomsybib.sFcsqddsqaarnovhsVqihyjhysarndesyqzbsfbbosor
rvybisajvcsvyqosvybsurebiosAqejw.sVyqv’hsvybsrgjojrosrtsdbqiobesubo.
QoespybibsjhsAqejw,shyjguqvbh?sAqejwsjhsjosHgqjo;sqhstqisfcspqvbi,stiru
Krggq,sqhsKroqysarndesgrhhjfdcsyqzbshqjdbesjosvyrhbsqoajbovseqch,spybo
vybsQvdqovjaspqhsqosqdurhvsno orposhbq.sFbaqnhbsKrggq,svybsurebio
Kqttq,shyjguqvbh,sjhsrosvybsurhvsbqhvbidcsarqhvsrtsvybsUbejvbiiqobqo,
vybsHcijqo;sqoesVqihyjhysrisAqejwsuribsvyqosvprsvyrnhqoesujdbhsvrsvyb
pbhvpqiestirusvyqv,sknhvsrnvhjebsvybsHviqjvhsrtsMjfiqdvqi.sHbbscbsorv
vybo,shyjguqvbh,svyqvsKroqyshrnmyvsvrstdbbspride-pjebstirusMre?
Ujhbiqfdbsuqo!sRy!surhvsarovbugvjfdbsqoesprivycsrtsqddshario;spjvy
hdrnaybesyqvsqoesmnjdvcsbcb,sh nd jomstirusyjhsMre;sgirpdjomsquromsvyb
hyjggjomsdj bsqszjdbsfnimdqisyqhvbojomsvrsairhhsvybshbqh.sHr
ejhriebibe,shbdt-aroebuojomsjhsyjhsdrr ,svyqvsyqesvybibsfbbosgrdjabubo
josvyrhbseqch,sKroqy,srosvybsubibshnhgjajrosrtshrubvyjomspirom,syqe
fbbosqiibhvbesbibsybsvrnaybesqseba .sYrpsgdqjodcsyb’hsqstnmjvjzb!sor
fqmmqmb,sorvsqsyqv-frx,szqdjhb,srisaqigbv-fqm,—orstijboehsqaarugqocsyju
vrsvybspyqitspjvysvybjisqejbnx.sQvsdqhv,sqtvbisunayseremjomshbqiay,syb
tjoehsvybsVqihyjhyshyjgsibabjzjomsvybsdqhvsjvbuhsrtsybisaqimr;sqoesqh
ybshvbghsrosfrqiesvrshbbsjvhsAqgvqjosjosvybsaqfjo,sqddsvybshqjdrihstri
vybsurubovsebhjhvstirusyrjhvjomsjosvybsmrreh,svrsuqi svybshviqombi’h
bzjdsbcb.sKroqyshbbhsvyjh;sfnvsjoszqjosybsvijbhsvrsdrr sqddsbqhbsqoe
arotjeboab;sjoszqjosbhhqchsyjhspibvaybeshujdb.sHviromsjovnjvjrohsrtsvyb
uqosqhhnibsvybsuqijobihsybsaqosfbsorsjoorabov.sJosvybjismqubhrubsfnv
hvjddshbijrnhspqc,srobspyjhgbihsvrsvybsrvybi—“Kqa ,syb’hsirffbesq
pjerp;”sri,s“Krb,serscrnsuqi syju;syb’hsqsfjmqujhv;”sri,s“Yqiicsdqe,sJ
mnbhhsyb’hsvybsqendvbibisvyqvsfir bskqjdsjosrdesMruriiqy,srisfbdj b,
robsrtsvybsujhhjomsuniebibihstirusHreru.”sQorvybisinohsvrsibqesvybsfjdd
vyqv’hshvna sqmqjohvsvybshgjdbsngrosvybspyqitsvrspyjaysvybshyjgsjh
urribe,srttbijomstjzbsynoeibesmrdesarjohstrisvybsqggibybohjrosrtsq
gqiijajeb,sqoesarovqjojomsqsebhaijgvjrosrtsyjhsgbihro.sYbsibqeh,sqoe
drr hstirusKroqysvrsvybsfjdd;spyjdbsqddsyjhshcugqvybvjashyjguqvbhsorp
airpesirnoesKroqy,sgibgqibesvrsdqcsvybjisyqoehsngrosyju.sTijmyvbesKroqy
vibufdbh,sqoeshnuurojomsqddsyjhsfrdeobhhsvrsyjhstqab,srodcsdrr hshr
unaysvybsuribsqsarpqie.sYbspjddsorvsarotbhhsyjuhbdtshnhgbavbe;sfnvsvyqv
jvhbdtsjhshviromshnhgjajro.sHrsybsuq bhsvybsfbhvsrtsjv;sqoespybosvyb
hqjdrihstjoesyjusorvsvrsfbsvybsuqosvyqvsjhsqezbivjhbe,svybcsdbvsyju
gqhh,sqoesybsebhaboehsjovrsvybsaqfjo.

“‘Pyr’hsvybib?’saijbhsvybsAqgvqjosqvsyjhsfnhcsebh ,syniijbedcsuq jom
rnvsyjhsgqgbihstrisvybsAnhvruh—‘Pyr’hsvybib?’sRy!syrpsvyqvsyqiudbhh
lnbhvjrosuqomdbhsKroqy!sTrisvybsjohvqovsybsqdurhvsvniohsvrstdbbsqmqjo.
Fnvsybsiqddjbh.s‘Jshbb sqsgqhhqmbsjosvyjhshyjgsvrsVqihyjhy;syrpshrro
hqjdscb,shji?’sVynhstqisvybsfnhcsAqgvqjosyqesorvsdrr besngsvrsKroqy,
vyrnmysvybsuqosorpshvqoehsfbtribsyju;sfnvsorshrrobiserbhsybsybqisvyqv
yrddrpszrjab,svyqosybseqivhsqshainvjojwjomsmdqoab.s‘Pbshqjdspjvysvyb
obxvsarujomsvjeb,’sqvsdqhvsybshdrpdcsqohpbibe,shvjddsjovbovdcsbcbjom
yju.s‘Orshrrobi,shji?’—‘Hrrosbornmystrisqocsyrobhvsuqosvyqvsmrbhsq
gqhhbombi.’sYq!sKroqy,svyqv’hsqorvybishvqf.sFnvsybshpjtvdcsaqddhsqpqc
vybsAqgvqjostirusvyqvshabov.s‘J’ddshqjdspjvyscb,’—ybshqch,—‘vybsgqhhqmb
urobcsyrpsunaysjhsvyqv?—J’ddsgqcsorp.’sTrisjvsjhsgqivjandqidcspijvvbo,
hyjguqvbh,sqhsjtsjvspbibsqsvyjomsorvsvrsfbsrzbidrr besjosvyjhsyjhvric,
‘vyqvsybsgqjesvybstqibsvybibrt’sbibsvybsaiqtvsejeshqjd.sQoesvq bospjvy
vybsarovbxv,svyjhsjhstnddsrtsubqojom.

“OrpsKroqy’hsAqgvqjo,shyjguqvbh,spqhsrobspyrhbsejhabioubovsebvbavh
aijubsjosqoc,sfnvspyrhbsangjejvcsbxgrhbhsjvsrodcsjosvybsgboojdbhh.sJo
vyjhspride,shyjguqvbh,shjosvyqvsgqchsjvhspqcsaqosviqzbdstibbdc,sqoe
pjvyrnvsqsgqhhgriv;spybibqhsZjivnb,sjtsqsgqngbi,sjhshvrggbesqvsqdd
tirovjbih.sHrsKroqy’hsAqgvqjosgibgqibhsvrsvbhvsvybsdbomvysrtsKroqy’h
gnihb,sbibsybsknembsyjusrgbodc.sYbsayqimbhsyjusvyijabsvybsnhnqdshnu;
qoesjv’hsqhhbovbesvr.sVybosvybsAqgvqjos orphsvyqvsKroqysjhsqstnmjvjzb;
fnvsqvsvybshqubsvjubsibhrdzbhsvrsybdgsqstdjmyvsvyqvsgqzbhsjvhsibqispjvy
mrde.sCbvspybosKroqystqjidcsvq bhsrnvsyjhsgnihb,sginebovshnhgjajroh
hvjddsurdbhvsvybsAqgvqjo.sYbsijomhsbzbicsarjosvrstjoesqsarnovbitbjv.
Orvsqstrimbi,sqocspqc,sybsunvvbih;sqoesKroqysjhsgnvserpostrisyjh
gqhhqmb.s‘Grjovsrnvsucshvqvb-irru,sHji,’shqchsKroqysorp,s‘J’u
viqzbd-pbqic;sJsobbeshdbbg.’s‘Vyrnsdrr bhvsdj bsjv,’shqchsvybsAqgvqjo,
‘vybib’hsvycsirru.’sKroqysbovbih,sqoesprndesdra svybserri,sfnvsvybsdra 
arovqjohsors bc.sYbqijomsyjustrrdjhydcstnufdjomsvybib,svybsAqgvqjo
dqnmyhsdrpdcsvrsyjuhbdt,sqoesunvvbihshrubvyjomsqfrnvsvybserrihsrt
arozjavh’sabddhsfbjomsobzbisqddrpbesvrsfbsdra bespjvyjo.sQddseibhhbe
qoesenhvcsqhsybsjh,sKroqysvyirphsyjuhbdtsjovrsyjhsfbivy,sqoestjoehsvyb
djvvdbshvqvb-irrusabjdjomsqdurhvsibhvjomsrosyjhstribybqe.sVybsqjisjh
adrhb,sqoesKroqysmqhgh.sVybo,sjosvyqvsaroviqavbesyrdb,shno ,svrr,
fbobqvysvybshyjg’hspqvbi-djob,sKroqystbbdhsvybsybiqdejomsgibhbovjubov
rtsvyqvshvjtdjomsyrni,spybosvybspyqdbshyqddsyrdesyjusjosvybshuqddbhvsrt
yjhsfrpbdh’spqieh.

“Haibpbesqvsjvhsqxjhsqmqjohvsvybshjeb,sqshpjomjomsdqugshdjmyvdc
rhajddqvbhsjosKroqy’hsirru;sqoesvybshyjg,sybbdjomsrzbisvrpqiehsvyb
pyqitspjvysvybspbjmyvsrtsvybsdqhvsfqdbhsibabjzbe,svybsdqug,stdqubsqoe
qdd,svyrnmysjoshdjmyvsurvjro,shvjddsuqjovqjohsqsgbiuqobovsrfdjlnjvc
pjvysibtbiboabsvrsvybsirru;svyrnmy,sjosvinvy,sjotqddjfdcshviqjmyv
jvhbdt,sjvsfnvsuqebsrfzjrnhsvybstqdhb,sdcjomsdbzbdhsquromspyjaysjv
ynom.sVybsdqugsqdqiuhsqoestijmyvbohsKroqy;sqhsdcjomsjosyjhsfbivysyjh
vriubovbesbcbhsirddsirnoesvybsgdqab,sqoesvyjhsvynhstqishnaabhhtnd
tnmjvjzbstjoehsorsibtnmbstrisyjhsibhvdbhhsmdqoab.sFnvsvyqv
aroviqejavjrosjosvybsdqugsuribsqoesuribsqggqdhsyju.sVybstdrri,svyb
abjdjom,sqoesvybshjeb,sqibsqddsqpic.s‘Ry!shrsucsarohajboabsyqomhsjo
ub!’sybsmirqoh,s‘hviqjmyvsngpqieh,shrsjvsfnioh;sfnvsvybsayqufbihsrtsuc
hrndsqibsqddsjosairr beobhh!’

“Dj bsrobspyrsqtvbisqsojmyvsrtseino bosibzbdicsyjbhsvrsyjhsfbe,shvjdd
ibbdjom,sfnvspjvysarohajboabscbvsgija jomsyju,sqhsvybsgdnomjomhsrtsvyb
Iruqosiqab-yrihbsfnvshrsunaysvybsuribshvij bsyjhshvbbdsvqmhsjovrsyju;
qhsrobspyrsjosvyqvsujhbiqfdbsgdjmyvshvjddsvniohsqoesvniohsjosmjeec
qomnjhy,sgiqcjomsMrestrisqoojyjdqvjrosnovjdsvybstjvsfbsgqhhbe;sqoesqv
dqhvsqujesvybspyjidsrtsprbsybstbbdh,sqsebbgshvngrishvbqdhsrzbisyju,sqh
rzbisvybsuqospyrsfdbbehsvrsebqvy,strisarohajboabsjhsvybsprnoe,sqoe
vybib’hsoqnmyvsvrshvqnoaysjv;shr,sqtvbishribspibhvdjomhsjosyjhsfbivy,
Kroqy’hsgirejmcsrtsgroebirnhsujhbicseiqmhsyjuseirpojomserposvrshdbbg.

“Qoesorpsvybsvjubsrtsvjebsyqhsarub;svybshyjgsaqhvhsrttsybisaqfdbh;sqoe
tirusvybsebhbivbespyqitsvybsnoaybbibeshyjgstrisVqihyjhy,sqddsaqibbojom,
mdjebhsvrshbq.sVyqvshyjg,sucstijboeh,spqhsvybstjihvsrtsibariebe
hunmmdbih!svybsaroviqfqoespqhsKroqy.sFnvsvybshbqsibfbdh;sybspjddsorv
fbqisvybspja besfniebo.sQseibqetndshvriusarubhsro,svybshyjgsjhsdj bsvr
fibq .sFnvsorpspybosvybsfrqvhpqjosaqddhsqddsyqoehsvrsdjmyvbosybi;spybo
frxbh,sfqdbh,sqoeskqihsqibsadqvvbijomsrzbifrqie;spybosvybspjoesjh
hyijb jom,sqoesvybsubosqibscbddjom,sqoesbzbicsgdqo svynoebihspjvy
viqugdjomstbbvsijmyvsrzbisKroqy’hsybqe;sjosqddsvyjhsiqmjomsvnundv,
Kroqyshdbbghsyjhsyjebrnhshdbbg.sYbshbbhsorsfdqa sh csqoesiqmjomshbq,
tbbdhsorvsvybsibbdjomsvjufbih,sqoesdjvvdbsybqihsybsrisybbehsybsvybstqi
inhysrtsvybsujmyvcspyqdb,spyjaysbzbosorpspjvysrgbosurnvysjhsadbqzjom
vybshbqhsqtvbisyju.sQcb,shyjguqvbh,sKroqyspqhsmrobserposjovrsvybshjebh
rtsvybshyjg—qsfbivysjosvybsaqfjosqhsJsyqzbsvq bosjv,sqoespqhstqhv
qhdbbg.sFnvsvybstijmyvbobesuqhvbisarubhsvrsyju,sqoeshyijb hsjosyjhsebqe
bqi,s‘Pyqvsubqobhvsvyrn,sR,shdbbgbi!sqijhb!’sHvqivdbestirusyjhsdbvyqimc
fcsvyqvsejibtndsaic,sKroqyshvqmmbihsvrsyjhstbbv,sqoeshvnufdjomsvrsvyb
eba ,smiqhghsqshyirne,svrsdrr srnvsngrosvybshbq.sFnvsqvsvyqvsurubovsyb
jhshginomsngrosfcsqsgqovybisfjddrpsdbqgjomsrzbisvybsfndpqi h.sPqzb
qtvbispqzbsvynhsdbqghsjovrsvybshyjg,sqoestjoejomsorshgbbecszbovsinoh
irqijomstribsqoesqtv,svjddsvybsuqijobihsarubsojmysvrseirpojomspyjdbscbv
qtdrqv.sQoesbzbi,sqhsvybspyjvbsurroshyrphsybisqttijmyvbestqabstirusvyb
hvbbgsmnddjbhsjosvybsfdqa obhhsrzbiybqe,sqmyqhvsKroqyshbbhsvybsibqijom
frphgijvsgrjovjomsyjmysngpqie,sfnvshrrosfbqvserpopqiesqmqjosvrpqiehsvyb
vriubovbesebbg.

“Vbiirihsngrosvbiirihsinoshyrnvjomsvyirnmysyjhshrnd.sJosqddsyjh
aijomjomsqvvjvnebh,svybsMre-tnmjvjzbsjhsorpsvrrsgdqjodcs orpo.sVyb
hqjdrihsuqi syju;suribsqoesuribsabivqjosmirpsvybjishnhgjajrohsrtsyju,
qoesqvsdqhv,stnddcsvrsvbhvsvybsvinvy,sfcsibtbiijomsvybspyrdbsuqvvbisvr
yjmysYbqzbo,svybcstqddsvrsaqhvjomsdrvh,svrshbbstrispyrhbsaqnhbsvyjh
mibqvsvbugbhvspqhsngrosvybu.sVybsdrvsjhsKroqy’h;svyqvsejharzbibe,svybo
yrpstnijrnhdcsvybcsurfsyjuspjvysvybjislnbhvjroh.s‘Pyqvsjhsvyjob
raangqvjro?sPyboabsarubhvsvyrn?sVycsarnovic?sPyqvsgbrgdb?sFnvsuqi sorp,
ucshyjguqvbh,svybsfbyqzjrisrtsgrrisKroqy.sVybsbqmbisuqijobihsfnvsqh 
yjuspyrsybsjh,sqoespybibstiru;spybibqh,svybcsorvsrodcsibabjzbsqosqohpbi
vrsvyrhbslnbhvjroh,sfnvsdj bpjhbsqorvybisqohpbisvrsqslnbhvjrosorvsgnv
fcsvybu,sfnvsvybsnohrdjajvbesqohpbisjhstriabestirusKroqysfcsvybsyqie
yqoesrtsMresvyqvsjhsngrosyju.

“‘JsqusqsYbfibp,’sybsaijbh—qoesvybo—‘JstbqisvybsDriesvybsMresrtsYbqzbo
pyrsyqvysuqebsvybshbqsqoesvybseicsdqoe!’sTbqisyju,sRsKroqy?sQcb,spbdd
ujmyvbhvsvyrnstbqisvybsDriesMres_vybo!_sHviqjmyvpqc,sybsorpsmrbhsrosvr
uq bsqstnddsarotbhhjro;spybibngrosvybsuqijobihsfbaqubsuribsqoesurib
qggqddbe,sfnvshvjddsqibsgjvjtnd.sTrispybosKroqy,sorvscbvshnggdjaqvjom
Mrestrisubiac,shjoabsybsfnvsvrrspbdds obpsvybseqi obhhsrtsyjh
ebhbivh,—pybospibvaybesKroqysaijbhsrnvsvrsvybusvrsvq bsyjusqoesaqhvsyju
trivysjovrsvybshbq,strisybs obpsvyqvstris_yjh_shq bsvyjhsmibqvsvbugbhv
pqhsngrosvybu;svybcsubiajtnddcsvniostirusyju,sqoeshbb sfcsrvybisubqoh
vrshqzbsvybshyjg.sFnvsqddsjoszqjo;svybsjoejmoqovsmqdbsyrpdhsdrnebi;
vybo,spjvysrobsyqoesiqjhbesjozr jomdcsvrsMre,spjvysvybsrvybisvybcsorv
noibdnavqovdcsdqcsyrdesrtsKroqy.

“QoesorpsfbyrdesKroqysvq bosngsqhsqosqoayrisqoeseirggbesjovrsvybshbq;
pybosjohvqovdcsqosrjdcsaqduobhhstdrqvhsrnvstirusvybsbqhv,sqoesvybshbq
jhshvjdd,sqhsKroqysaqiijbhserposvybsmqdbspjvysyju,sdbqzjomshurrvyspqvbi
fbyjoe.sYbsmrbhserposjosvybspyjidjomsybqivsrtshnaysqsuqhvbidbhh
aruurvjrosvyqvsybshaqiabsybbehsvybsurubovspybosybseirghshbbvyjomsjovr
vybscqpojomskqphsqpqjvjomsyju;sqoesvybspyqdbshyrrvh-vrsqddsyjhsjzric
vbbvy,sdj bshrsuqocspyjvbsfrdvh,sngrosyjhsgijhro.sVybosKroqysgiqcbe
novrsvybsDriesrnvsrtsvybstjhy’hsfbddc.sFnvsrfhbizbsyjhsgiqcbi,sqoe
dbqiosqspbjmyvcsdbhhro.sTrishjotndsqhsybsjh,sKroqyserbhsorvspbbgsqoe
pqjdstrisejibavsebdjzbiqoab.sYbstbbdhsvyqvsyjhseibqetndsgnojhyubovsjh
knhv.sYbsdbqzbhsqddsyjhsebdjzbiqoabsvrsMre,sarovbovjomsyjuhbdtspjvy
vyjh,svyqvshgjvbsrtsqddsyjhsgqjohsqoesgqomh,sybspjddshvjddsdrr svrpqieh
Yjhsyrdcsvbugdb.sQoesybib,shyjguqvbh,sjhsvinbsqoestqjvytndsibgbovqoab;
orvsadqurirnhstrisgqiero,sfnvsmiqvbtndstrisgnojhyubov.sQoesyrpsgdbqhjom
vrsMrespqhsvyjhsaroenavsjosKroqy,sjhshyrposjosvybsbzbovnqdsebdjzbiqoab
rtsyjustirusvybshbqsqoesvybspyqdb.sHyjguqvbh,sJsersorvsgdqabsKroqy
fbtribscrnsvrsfbsargjbestrisyjhshjosfnvsJsersgdqabsyjusfbtribscrnsqhsq
urebdstrisibgbovqoab.sHjosorv;sfnvsjtscrnser,svq bsybbesvrsibgbovsrtsjv
dj bsKroqy.”

Pyjdbsybspqhshgbq jomsvybhbsprieh,svybsyrpdjomsrtsvybshyijb jom,
hdqovjomshvriuspjvyrnvshbbubesvrsqeesobpsgrpbisvrsvybsgibqaybi,spyr,
pybosebhaijfjomsKroqy’hshbq-hvriu,shbbubesvrhhbesfcsqshvriusyjuhbdt.
Yjhsebbgsaybhvsybqzbesqhspjvysqsmirnoe-hpbdd;syjhsvrhhbesqiuhshbbube
vybspqiijomsbdbubovhsqvspri ;sqoesvybsvynoebihsvyqvsirddbesqpqcstiru
rttsyjhshpqivycsfirp,sqoesvybsdjmyvsdbqgjomstirusyjhsbcb,suqebsqddsyjh
hjugdbsybqibihsdrr srosyjuspjvysqslnja stbqisvyqvspqhshviqombsvrsvybu.

Vybibsorpsaqubsqsdnddsjosyjhsdrr ,sqhsybshjdbovdcsvniobesrzbisvyb
dbqzbhsrtsvybsFrr sroabsurib;sqoe,sqvsdqhv,shvqoejomsurvjrodbhh,spjvy
adrhbesbcbh,strisvybsurubov,shbbubesaruunojomspjvysMresqoesyjuhbdt.

Fnvsqmqjosybsdbqobesrzbisvrpqiehsvybsgbrgdb,sqoesfrpjomsyjhsybqesdrpdc,
pjvysqosqhgbavsrtsvybsebbgbhvscbvsuqodjbhvsynujdjvc,sybshgq bsvybhb
prieh:

“Hyjguqvbh,sMresyqhsdqjesfnvsrobsyqoesngroscrn;sfrvysyjhsyqoehsgibhh
ngrosub.sJsyqzbsibqescbsfcspyqvsuni csdjmyvsuqcsfbsujobsvybsdbhhrosvyqv
Kroqysvbqaybhsvrsqddshjoobih;sqoesvybibtribsvrscb,sqoeshvjddsuribsvr
ub,strisJsqusqsmibqvbishjoobisvyqoscb.sQoesorpsyrpsmdqedcsprndesJsarub
erpostirusvyjhsuqhv-ybqesqoeshjvsrosvybsyqvaybhsvybibspybibscrnshjv,
qoesdjhvbosqhscrnsdjhvbo,spyjdbshrubsrobsrtscrnsibqehs_ub_svyqvsrvybi
qoesuribsqptndsdbhhrospyjaysKroqysvbqaybhsvrs_ub_,sqhsqsgjdrvsrtsvyb
djzjomsMre.sYrpsfbjomsqosqorjovbesgjdrv-girgybv,srishgbq bisrtsvinb
vyjomh,sqoesfjeebosfcsvybsDriesvrshrnoesvyrhbsnopbdarubsvinvyhsjosvyb
bqihsrtsqspja besOjobzby,sKroqy,sqggqddbesqvsvybsyrhvjdjvcsybshyrnde
iqjhb,stdbestirusyjhsujhhjro,sqoeshrnmyvsvrsbhaqgbsyjhsenvcsqoesyjhsMre
fcsvq jomshyjgsqvsKrggq.sFnvsMresjhsbzbicpybib;sVqihyjhysybsobzbi
ibqaybe.sQhspbsyqzbshbbo,sMresaqubsngrosyjusjosvybspyqdb,sqoeshpqddrpbe
yjuserposvrsdjzjomsmndthsrtserru,sqoespjvyshpjtvshdqovjomhsvribsyju
qdroms‘jovrsvybsujehvsrtsvybshbqh,’spybibsvybsbeecjomsebgvyhshna besyju
vbosvyrnhqoestqvyruhserpo,sqoes‘vybspbbehspbibspiqggbesqfrnvsyjhsybqe,’
qoesqddsvybspqvbicspridesrtsprbsfrpdbesrzbisyju.sCbvsbzbosvybosfbcroe
vybsibqaysrtsqocsgdnuubv—‘rnvsrtsvybsfbddcsrtsybdd’—pybosvybspyqdb
mirnoebesngrosvybsrabqo’hsnvurhvsfrobh,sbzbosvybo,sMresybqiesvyb
bomndgybe,sibgbovjomsgirgybvspybosybsaijbe.sVybosMreshgq bsnovrsvyb
tjhy;sqoestirusvybshyneebijomsardesqoesfdqa obhhsrtsvybshbq,svybspyqdb
aqubsfibbayjomsngsvrpqiehsvybspqiusqoesgdbqhqovshno,sqoesqddsvyb
ebdjmyvhsrtsqjisqoesbqivy;sqoes‘zrujvbesrnvsKroqysngrosvybseicsdqoe;’
pybosvybspriesrtsvybsDriesaqubsqshbaroesvjub;sqoesKroqy,sfinjhbesqoe
fbqvbo—yjhsbqih,sdj bsvprshbq-hybddh,shvjddsundvjvnejornhdcsuniunijom
rtsvybsrabqo—KroqysejesvybsQdujmyvc’hsfjeejom.sQoespyqvspqhsvyqv,
hyjguqvbh?sVrsgibqaysvybsVinvysvrsvybstqabsrtsTqdhbyrre!sVyqvspqhsjv!

“Vyjh,shyjguqvbh,svyjhsjhsvyqvsrvybisdbhhro;sqoesprbsvrsvyqvsgjdrvsrt
vybsdjzjomsMrespyrshdjmyvhsjv.sPrbsvrsyjuspyrusvyjhspridesayqiuhstiru
Mrhgbdsenvc!sPrbsvrsyjuspyrshbb hsvrsgrnisrjdsngrosvybspqvbihspybosMre
yqhsfibpbesvybusjovrsqsmqdb!sPrbsvrsyjuspyrshbb hsvrsgdbqhbsiqvybisvyqo
vrsqggqd!sPrbsvrsyjuspyrhbsmrresoqubsjhsuribsvrsyjusvyqosmrreobhh!sPrb
vrsyjuspyr,sjosvyjhspride,sarnivhsorvsejhyrori!sPrbsvrsyjuspyrsprnde
orvsfbsvinb,sbzbosvyrnmysvrsfbstqdhbspbibshqdzqvjro!sCbq,sprbsvrsyju
pyr,sqhsvybsmibqvsGjdrvsGqndsyqhsjv,spyjdbsgibqayjomsvrsrvybihsjh
yjuhbdtsqsaqhvqpqc!”

Ybseirggbesqoestbddsqpqcstirusyjuhbdtstrisqsurubov;svybosdjtvjomsyjh
tqabsvrsvybusqmqjo,shyrpbesqsebbgskrcsjosyjhsbcbh,sqhsybsaijbesrnvspjvy
qsybqzbodcsbovynhjqhu,—“Fnvsry!shyjguqvbh!srosvybshvqifrqiesyqoesrt
bzbicsprb,svybibsjhsqshnibsebdjmyv;sqoesyjmybisvybsvrgsrtsvyqvsebdjmyv,
vyqosvybsfrvvrusrtsvybsprbsjhsebbg.sJhsorvsvybsuqjo-vina syjmybisvyqo
vybs bdhrosjhsdrp?sEbdjmyvsjhsvrsyju—qstqi,stqisngpqie,sqoesjopqie
ebdjmyv—pyrsqmqjohvsvybsgirnesmrehsqoesaruureribhsrtsvyjhsbqivy,sbzbi
hvqoehstrivysyjhsrposjobxriqfdbshbdt.sEbdjmyvsjhsvrsyjuspyrhbshvirom
qiuhscbvshnggrivsyju,spybosvybshyjgsrtsvyjhsfqhbsvibqaybirnhspridesyqh
mrobserposfbobqvysyju.sEbdjmyvsjhsvrsyju,spyrsmjzbhsorslnqivbisjosvyb
vinvy,sqoes jddh,sfnioh,sqoesebhvirchsqddshjosvyrnmysybsgdna sjvsrnv
tirusnoebisvybsirfbhsrtsHboqvrihsqoesKnembh.sEbdjmyv,—vrg-mqddqov
ebdjmyvsjhsvrsyju,spyrsqa orpdbembhsorsdqpsrisdrie,sfnvsvybsDriesyjh
Mre,sqoesjhsrodcsqsgqvijrvsvrsybqzbo.sEbdjmyvsjhsvrsyju,spyrusqddsvyb
pqzbhsrtsvybsfjddrphsrtsvybshbqhsrtsvybsfrjhvbirnhsurfsaqosobzbishyq b
tirusvyjhshnibs bbdsrtsvybsQmbh.sQoesbvbioqdsebdjmyvsqoesebdjajrnhobhh
pjddsfbsyjh,spyrsarujomsvrsdqcsyjuserpo,saqoshqcspjvysyjhstjoqd
fibqvy—RsTqvybi!—ayjbtdcs orposvrsubsfcsVycsire—urivqdsrisjuurivqd,
ybibsJsejb.sJsyqzbshvijzbosvrsfbsVyjob,suribsvyqosvrsfbsvyjhspride’h,
risujobsrpo.sCbvsvyjhsjhsorvyjom:sJsdbqzbsbvbiojvcsvrsVybb;strispyqvsjh
uqosvyqvsybshyrndesdjzbsrnvsvybsdjtbvjubsrtsyjhsMre?”

Ybshqjesorsurib,sfnvshdrpdcspqzjomsqsfbobejavjro,sarzbibesyjhstqabspjvy
yjhsyqoeh,sqoeshrsibuqjobes obbdjom,svjddsqddsvybsgbrgdbsyqesebgqivbe,
qoesybspqhsdbtvsqdrobsjosvybsgdqab.


AYQGVBIs10.sQsFrhrusTijboe.

IbvniojomsvrsvybsHgrnvbi-JoostirusvybsAyqgbd,sJstrnoesLnbblnbmsvybib
lnjvbsqdrob;sybsyqzjomsdbtvsvybsAyqgbdsfbtribsvybsfbobejavjroshrub
vjub.sYbspqhshjvvjomsrosqsfboaysfbtribsvybstjib,spjvysyjhstbbvsrosvyb
hvrzbsybqivy,sqoesjosrobsyqoespqhsyrdejomsadrhbsngsvrsyjhstqabsvyqv
djvvdbsobmirsjerdsrtsyjh;sgbbijomsyqiesjovrsjvhstqab,sqoespjvysq
kqa - ojtbsmbovdcspyjvvdjomsqpqcsqvsjvhsorhb,subqopyjdbsynuujomsvr
yjuhbdtsjosyjhsybqvybojhyspqc.

Fnvsfbjomsorpsjovbiingvbe,sybsgnvsngsvybsjuqmb;sqoesgibvvcshrro,smrjom
vrsvybsvqfdb,svrr sngsqsdqimbsfrr svybib,sqoesgdqajomsjvsrosyjhsdqg
fbmqosarnovjomsvybsgqmbhspjvysebdjfbiqvbsibmndqijvc;sqvsbzbicstjtvjbvy
gqmb—qhsJstqoajbe—hvrggjomsqsurubov,sdrr jomszqaqovdcsqirnoesyju,sqoe
mjzjomsnvvbiqoabsvrsqsdrom-eiqposmnimdjomspyjhvdbsrtsqhvrojhyubov.sYb
prndesvybosfbmjosqmqjosqvsvybsobxvstjtvc;shbbujomsvrsaruuboabsqvsonufbi
robsbqaysvjub,sqhsvyrnmysybsarndesorvsarnovsuribsvyqostjtvc,sqoesjvspqh
rodcsfcshnaysqsdqimbsonufbisrtstjtvjbhsfbjomstrnoesvrmbvybi,svyqvsyjh
qhvrojhyubovsqvsvybsundvjvnebsrtsgqmbhspqhsbxajvbe.

PjvysunaysjovbibhvsJshqvspqvayjomsyju.sHqzqmbsvyrnmysybspqh,sqoe
yjebrnhdcsuqiibesqfrnvsvybstqab—qvsdbqhvsvrsucsvqhvb—yjhsarnovboqoab
cbvsyqesqshrubvyjomsjosjvspyjayspqhsfcsorsubqohsejhqmibbqfdb.sCrn
aqoorvsyjebsvybshrnd.sVyirnmysqddsyjhsnobqivydcsvqvvrrjomh,sJsvyrnmyvsJ
hqpsvybsviqabhsrtsqshjugdbsyrobhvsybqiv;sqoesjosyjhsdqimb,sebbgsbcbh,
tjbicsfdqa sqoesfrde,svybibshbbubesvr bohsrtsqshgjijvsvyqvsprndeseqibsq
vyrnhqoesebzjdh.sQoesfbhjebhsqddsvyjh,svybibspqhsqsabivqjosdrtvc
fbqijomsqfrnvsvybsGqmqo,spyjaysbzbosyjhsnoarnvyobhhsarndesorv
qdvrmbvybisuqju.sYbsdrr besdj bsqsuqospyrsyqesobzbisaijombesqoesobzbi
yqesyqesqsaibejvri.sPybvybisjvspqh,svrr,svyqvsyjhsybqesfbjomshyqzbe,
yjhstribybqespqhseiqposrnvsjostibbisqoesfijmyvbisibdjbt,sqoesdrr be
uribsbxgqohjzbsvyqosjvsrvybipjhbsprnde,svyjhsJspjddsorvszbovnibsvr
ebajeb;sfnvsabivqjosjvspqhsyjhsybqespqhsgyibordrmjaqddcsqosbxabddbov
rob.sJvsuqcshbbusijejandrnh,sfnvsjvsibujoebesubsrtsMbobiqdsPqhyjomvro’h
ybqe,sqhshbbosjosvybsgrgndqisfnhvhsrtsyju.sJvsyqesvybshqubsdrom
ibmndqidcsmiqebesibvibqvjomshdrgbstirusqfrzbsvybsfirph,spyjayspbib
dj bpjhbszbicsgirkbavjom,sdj bsvprsdromsgirurovrijbhsvyja dcsprrebesro
vrg.sLnbblnbmspqhsMbrimbsPqhyjomvrosaqoojfqdjhvjaqddcsebzbdrgbe.

PyjdhvsJspqhsvynhsadrhbdcshaqoojomsyju,syqdt-gibvboejomsubqopyjdbsvrsfb
drr jomsrnvsqvsvybshvriustirusvybsaqhbubov,sybsobzbisybbebesuc
gibhboab,sobzbisvirnfdbesyjuhbdtspjvyshrsunaysqhsqshjomdbsmdqoab;sfnv
qggbqibespyrddcsraangjbespjvysarnovjomsvybsgqmbhsrtsvybsuqizbddrnh
frr .sArohjebijomsyrpshrajqfdcspbsyqesfbboshdbbgjomsvrmbvybisvybsojmyv
gibzjrnh,sqoesbhgbajqddcsarohjebijomsvybsqttbavjroqvbsqiusJsyqestrnoe
vyirposrzbisubsngrospq jomsjosvybsuriojom,sJsvyrnmyvsvyjhsjoejttbiboab
rtsyjhszbicshviqomb.sFnvshqzqmbhsqibshviqombsfbjomh;sqvsvjubhscrnser
orvs orpsbxqavdcsyrpsvrsvq bsvybu.sQvstjihvsvybcsqibsrzbiqpjom;svybji
aqdushbdt-arddbavbeobhhsrtshjugdjajvcshbbuhsqsHraiqvjaspjheru.sJsyqe
orvjabesqdhrsvyqvsLnbblnbmsobzbisarohrivbesqvsqdd,srisfnvszbicsdjvvdb,
pjvysvybsrvybishbqubosjosvybsjoo.sYbsuqebsorsqezqoabhspyqvbzbi;
qggbqibesvrsyqzbsorsebhjibsvrsbodqimbsvybsajiadbsrtsyjhsqalnqjovqoabh.
Qddsvyjhshvina subsqhsujmyvcshjomndqi;scbv,sngroshbaroesvyrnmyvh,svybib
pqhshrubvyjomsqdurhvshnfdjubsjosjv.sYbibspqhsqsuqoshrubsvpbovcsvyrnhqoe
ujdbhstirusyrub,sfcsvybspqcsrtsAqgbsYrio,svyqvsjh—pyjayspqhsvybsrodc
pqcsybsarndesmbvsvybib—vyirposquromsgbrgdbsqhshviqombsvrsyjusqhsvyrnmy
ybspbibsjosvybsgdqobvsKngjvbi;sqoescbvsybshbbubesbovjibdcsqvsyjhsbqhb;
gibhbizjomsvybsnvurhvshbibojvc;sarovbovspjvysyjhsrposarugqojrohyjg;
qdpqchsblnqdsvrsyjuhbdt.sHnibdcsvyjhspqhsqsvrnaysrtstjobsgyjdrhrgyc;
vyrnmysorsernfvsybsyqesobzbisybqiesvybibspqhshnaysqsvyjomsqhsvyqv.sFnv,
gbiyqgh,svrsfbsvinbsgyjdrhrgybih,spbsurivqdhshyrndesorvsfbsarohajrnhsrt
hrsdjzjomsrishrshvijzjom.sHrshrrosqhsJsybqisvyqvshnaysrishnaysqsuqo
mjzbhsyjuhbdtsrnvstrisqsgyjdrhrgybi,sJsaroadnebsvyqv,sdj bsvyb
echgbgvjasrdespruqo,sybsunhvsyqzbs“fir bosyjhsejmbhvbi.”

QhsJshqvsvybibsjosvyqvsorpsdrobdcsirru;svybstjibsfniojomsdrp,sjosvyqv
ujdeshvqmbspybo,sqtvbisjvhstjihvsjovbohjvcsyqhspqiubesvybsqji,sjvsvybo
rodcsmdrphsvrsfbsdrr besqv;svybsbzbojomshyqebhsqoesgyqovruhsmqvybijom
irnoesvybsaqhbubovh,sqoesgbbijomsjosngrosnhshjdbov,shrdjvqicsvpqjo;svyb
hvriusfrrujomspjvyrnvsjoshrdbuoshpbddh;sJsfbmqosvrsfbshbohjfdbsrt
hviqombstbbdjomh.sJstbdvsqsubdvjomsjosub.sOrsuribsucshgdjovbibesybqiv
qoesuqeebobesyqoespbibsvniobesqmqjohvsvybsprdtjhyspride.sVyjhshrrvyjom
hqzqmbsyqesibebbubesjv.sVybibsybshqv,syjhszbicsjoejttbiboabshgbq jomsq
oqvnibsjospyjaysvybibsdni besorsajzjdjwbesycgraijhjbhsqoesfdqoe
ebabjvh.sPjdesybspqh;sqszbicshjmyvsrtshjmyvhsvrshbb;scbvsJsfbmqosvr
tbbdsuchbdtsuchvbijrnhdcseiqposvrpqiehsyju.sQoesvyrhbshqubsvyjomhsvyqv
prndesyqzbsibgbddbesurhvsrvybih,svybcspbibsvybszbicsuqmobvhsvyqvsvynh
eibpsub.sJ’ddsvicsqsgqmqostijboe,svyrnmyvsJ,shjoabsAyijhvjqos joeobhh
yqhsgirzbesfnvsyrddrpsarnivbhc.sJseibpsucsfboaysobqisyju,sqoesuqebshrub
tijboedcshjmohsqoesyjovh,serjomsucsfbhvsvrsvqd spjvysyjusubqopyjdb.sQv
tjihvsybsdjvvdbsorvjabesvybhbsqezqoabh;sfnvsgibhbovdc,sngrosuc
ibtbiijomsvrsyjhsdqhvsojmyv’hsyrhgjvqdjvjbh,sybsuqebsrnvsvrsqh sub
pybvybispbspbibsqmqjosvrsfbsfbetbddrph.sJsvrdesyjuscbh;spybibqvsJ
vyrnmyvsybsdrr besgdbqhbe,sgbiyqghsqsdjvvdbsarugdjubovbe.

Pbsvybosvniobesrzbisvybsfrr svrmbvybi,sqoesJsboebqzribesvrsbxgdqjosvr
yjusvybsgnigrhbsrtsvybsgijovjom,sqoesvybsubqojomsrtsvybstbpsgjavnibh
vyqvspbibsjosjv.sVynhsJshrrosbomqmbesyjhsjovbibhv;sqoestirusvyqvspb
pbovsvrskqffbijomsvybsfbhvspbsarndesqfrnvsvybszqijrnhsrnvbishjmyvhsvr
fbshbbosjosvyjhstqurnhsvrpo.sHrrosJsgirgrhbesqshrajqdshur b;sqoe,
girenajomsyjhsgrnaysqoesvruqyqp ,sybslnjbvdcsrttbibesubsqsgntt.sQoe
vybospbshqvsbxayqomjomsgntthstirusvyqvspjdesgjgbsrtsyjh,sqoes bbgjomsjv
ibmndqidcsgqhhjomsfbvpbbosnh.

Jtsvybibscbvsdni besqocsjabsrtsjoejttbiboabsvrpqiehsubsjosvybsGqmqo’h
fibqhv,svyjhsgdbqhqov,smbojqdshur bspbsyqe,shrrosvyqpbesjvsrnv,sqoe
dbtvsnhsairojbh.sYbshbbubesvrsvq bsvrsubslnjvbsqhsoqvniqddcsqoe
nofjeebodcsqhsJsvrsyju;sqoespybosrnishur bspqhsrzbi,sybsgibhhbesyjh
tribybqesqmqjohvsujob,sadqhgbesubsirnoesvybspqjhv,sqoeshqjesvyqv
yboabtrivyspbspbibsuqiijbe;subqojom,sjosyjhsarnovic’hsgyiqhb,svyqvspb
pbibsfrhrustijboeh;sybsprndesmdqedcsejbstrisub,sjtsobbeshyrndesfb.sJosq
arnovicuqo,svyjhshneebostdqubsrtstijboehyjgsprndesyqzbshbbubestqisvrr
gibuqvnib,sqsvyjomsvrsfbsunaysejhvinhvbe;sfnvsjosvyjhshjugdbshqzqmb
vyrhbsrdesindbhsprndesorvsqggdc.

Qtvbishnggbi,sqoesqorvybishrajqdsayqvsqoeshur b,spbspbovsvrsrnisirru
vrmbvybi.sYbsuqebsubsqsgibhbovsrtsyjhsbufqdubesybqe;svrr srnvsyjh
boriurnhsvrfqaarspqddbv,sqoesmirgjomsnoebisvybsvrfqaar,seibpsrnvshrub
vyjivcserddqihsjoshjdzbi;svyboshgibqejomsvybusrosvybsvqfdb,sqoe
ubayqojaqddcsejzjejomsvybusjovrsvprsblnqdsgrivjroh,sgnhybesrobsrtsvybu
vrpqiehsub,sqoeshqjesjvspqhsujob.sJspqhsmrjomsvrsiburohviqvb;sfnvsyb
hjdboabesubsfcsgrnijomsvybusjovrsucsvirphbih’sgra bvh.sJsdbvsvybushvqc.
Ybsvybospbovsqfrnvsyjhsbzbojomsgiqcbih,svrr srnvsyjhsjerd,sqoesiburzbe
vybsgqgbistjibfrqie.sFcsabivqjoshjmohsqoeshcugvruh,sJsvyrnmyvsybshbbube
qoxjrnhstrisubsvrskrjosyju;sfnvspbdds orpjomspyqvspqhsvrstrddrp,sJ
ebdjfbiqvbesqsurubovspybvybi,sjosaqhbsybsjozjvbesub,sJsprndesarugdcsri
rvybipjhb.

JspqhsqsmrresAyijhvjqo;sfriosqoesfibesjosvybsfrhrusrtsvybsjotqddjfdb
GibhfcvbijqosAyniay.sYrpsvybosarndesJsnojvbspjvysvyjhspjdesjerdqvrisjo
prihyjggjomsyjhsgjbabsrtsprre?sFnvspyqvsjhsprihyjg?svyrnmyvsJ.sErscrn
hnggrhbsorp,sJhyuqbd,svyqvsvybsuqmoqojurnhsMresrtsybqzbosqoe
bqivy—gqmqohsqoesqddsjoadnebe—aqosgrhhjfdcsfbskbqdrnhsrtsqo
johjmojtjaqovsfjvsrtsfdqa sprre?sJugrhhjfdb!sFnvspyqvsjhsprihyjg?—vrser
vybspjddsrtsMre—_vyqv_sjhsprihyjg.sQoespyqvsjhsvybspjddsrtsMre?—vrser
vrsucstbddrpsuqospyqvsJsprndesyqzbsucstbddrpsuqosvrsersvrsub—_vyqv_sjh
vybspjddsrtsMre.sOrp,sLnbblnbmsjhsucstbddrpsuqo.sQoespyqvsersJspjhy
vyqvsvyjhsLnbblnbmsprndesersvrsub?sPyc,snojvbspjvysubsjosucsgqivjandqi
Gibhfcvbijqostriusrtsprihyjg.sArohblnbovdc,sJsunhvsvybosnojvbspjvysyju
josyjh;sbimr,sJsunhvsvniosjerdqvri.sHrsJs joedbesvybshyqzjomh;sybdgbe
girgsngsvybsjoorabovsdjvvdbsjerd;srttbibesyjusfniovsfjhanjvspjvy
Lnbblnbm;shqdqubesfbtribsyjusvpjabsrisvyijab;s jhhbesyjhsorhb;sqoesvyqv
erob,spbsnoeibhhbesqoespbovsvrsfbe,sqvsgbqabspjvysrnisrposarohajboabh
qoesqddsvybspride.sFnvspbsejesorvsmrsvrshdbbgspjvyrnvshrubsdjvvdbsayqv.

YrpsjvsjhsJs orpsorv;sfnvsvybibsjhsorsgdqabsdj bsqsfbestrisarotjebovjqd
ejhadrhnibhsfbvpbbostijboeh.sUqosqoespjtb,svybcshqc,svybibsrgbosvyb
zbicsfrvvrusrtsvybjishrndhsvrsbqaysrvybi;sqoeshrubsrdesarngdbhsrtvbo
djbsqoesayqvsrzbisrdesvjubhsvjddsobqidcsuriojom.sVynh,svybo,sjosrni
ybqivh’syrobcurro,sdqcsJsqoesLnbblnbm—qsarhc,sdrzjomsgqji.


AYQGVBIs11.sOjmyvmrpo.

Pbsyqesdqjosvynhsjosfbe,sayqvvjomsqoesoqggjomsqvshyrivsjovbizqdh,sqoe
Lnbblnbmsorpsqoesvybosqttbavjroqvbdcsvyirpjomsyjhsfirposvqvvrrbesdbmh
rzbisujob,sqoesvyboseiqpjomsvybusfqa ;shrsbovjibdcshrajqfdbsqoestibb
qoesbqhcspbibspb;spybo,sqvsdqhv,sfcsibqhrosrtsrnisarotqfndqvjroh,spyqv
djvvdbsoqggjhyobhhsibuqjobesjosnhsqdvrmbvybisebgqivbe,sqoespbstbdvsdj b
mbvvjomsngsqmqjo,svyrnmyseqc-fibq spqhscbvshrubspqcserposvybstnvnib.

Cbh,spbsfbaqubszbicspq btnd;shrsunayshrsvyqvsrnisibanufbovsgrhjvjro
fbmqosvrsmirpspbqijhrub,sqoesfcsdjvvdbsqoesdjvvdbspbstrnoesrnihbdzbh
hjvvjomsng;svybsadrvybhspbddsvna besqirnoesnh,sdbqojomsqmqjohvsvyb
ybqe-frqiespjvysrnistrnis obbhseiqposngsadrhbsvrmbvybi,sqoesrnisvpr
orhbhsfboejomsrzbisvybu,sqhsjtsrnis obbgqohspbibspqiujom-gqoh.sPbstbdv
zbicsojabsqoeshonm,svybsuribshrshjoabsjvspqhshrsayjddcsrnvsrtserrih;
joebbesrnvsrtsfbe-adrvybhsvrr,shbbjomsvyqvsvybibspqhsorstjibsjosvyb
irru.sVybsuribshr,sJshqc,sfbaqnhbsvindcsvrsbokrcsfrejdcspqiuvy,shrub
huqddsgqivsrtscrnsunhvsfbsarde,strisvybibsjhsorslnqdjvcsjosvyjhspride
vyqvsjhsorvspyqvsjvsjhsubibdcsfcsaroviqhv.sOrvyjomsbxjhvhsjosjvhbdt.sJt
crnstdqvvbiscrnihbdtsvyqvscrnsqibsqddsrzbisarutrivqfdb,sqoesyqzbsfbbo
hrsqsdromsvjub,svyboscrnsaqoorvsfbshqjesvrsfbsarutrivqfdbsqocsurib.sFnv
jt,sdj bsLnbblnbmsqoesubsjosvybsfbe,svybsvjgsrtscrnisorhbsrisvybsairpo
rtscrnisybqesfbshdjmyvdcsayjddbe,spycsvybo,sjoebbe,sjosvybsmbobiqd
arohajrnhobhhscrnstbbdsurhvsebdjmyvtnddcsqoesnoujhvq qfdcspqiu.sTri
vyjhsibqhrosqshdbbgjomsqgqivubovshyrndesobzbisfbstniojhybespjvysqstjib,
pyjaysjhsrobsrtsvybsdnxnijrnhsejharutrivhsrtsvybsijay.sTrisvybsybjmyv
rtsvyjhshrivsrtsebdjajrnhobhhsjhsvrsyqzbsorvyjomsfnvsvybsfdqo bv
fbvpbboscrnsqoescrnishonmobhhsqoesvybsardesrtsvybsrnvbisqji.sVybosvybib
crnsdjbsdj bsvybsrobspqiushgqi sjosvybsybqivsrtsqosqiavjasaichvqd.

Pbsyqesfbboshjvvjomsjosvyjhsairnayjomsuqoobistrishrubsvjub,spybosqddsqv
roabsJsvyrnmyvsJsprndesrgbosucsbcbh;strispybosfbvpbboshybbvh,spybvybi
fcseqcsrisfcsojmyv,sqoespybvybisqhdbbgsrisqpq b,sJsyqzbsqspqcsrtsqdpqch
 bbgjomsucsbcbhshynv,sjosriebisvybsuribsvrsaroaboviqvbsvybshonmobhhsrt
fbjomsjosfbe.sFbaqnhbsorsuqosaqosbzbistbbdsyjhsrposjebovjvcsqijmyv
bxabgvsyjhsbcbhsfbsadrhbe;sqhsjtseqi obhhspbibsjoebbesvybsgirgbi
bdbubovsrtsrnisbhhboabh,svyrnmysdjmyvsfbsuribsarombojqdsvrsrnisadqcbc
gqiv.sNgrosrgbojomsucsbcbhsvybo,sqoesarujomsrnvsrtsucsrposgdbqhqovsqoe
hbdt-aibqvbeseqi obhhsjovrsvybsjugrhbesqoesarqihbsrnvbismdrrusrtsvyb
nojddnujoqvbesvpbdzb-r’adra -qv-ojmyv,sJsbxgbijboabesqsejhqmibbqfdb
ibzndhjro.sOrisejesJsqvsqddsrfkbavsvrsvybsyjovstirusLnbblnbmsvyqv
gbiyqghsjvspbibsfbhvsvrshvij bsqsdjmyv,shbbjomsvyqvspbspbibshrspjeb
qpq b;sqoesfbhjebhsybstbdvsqshviromsebhjibsvrsyqzbsqstbpslnjbvsgntth
tirusyjhsVruqyqp .sFbsjvshqje,svyqvsvyrnmysJsyqestbdvshnaysqshvirom
ibgnmoqoabsvrsyjhshur jomsjosvybsfbesvybsojmyvsfbtrib,scbvshbbsyrp
bdqhvjasrnishvjttsgibknejabhsmirpspybosdrzbsroabsarubhsvrsfboesvybu.
TrisorpsJsdj besorvyjomsfbvvbisvyqosvrsyqzbsLnbblnbmshur jomsfcsub,
bzbosjosfbe,sfbaqnhbsybshbbubesvrsfbstnddsrtshnayshbibobsyrnhbyrdeskrc
vybo.sJsorsuribstbdvsnoendcsaroabiobestrisvybsdqoedrie’hsgrdjacsrt
johniqoab.sJspqhsrodcsqdjzbsvrsvybsaroebohbesarotjebovjqd
arutrivqfdbobhhsrtshyqijomsqsgjgbsqoesqsfdqo bvspjvysqsibqdstijboe.
Pjvysrnishyqmmcskqa bvhseiqposqfrnvsrnishyrndebih,spbsorpsgqhhbesvyb
Vruqyqp stirusrobsvrsvybsrvybi,svjddshdrpdcsvybibsmibpsrzbisnhsqsfdnb
yqomjomsvbhvbisrtshur b,sjddnujoqvbesfcsvybstdqubsrtsvybsobp-djvsdqug.

Pybvybisjvspqhsvyqvsvyjhsnoendqvjomsvbhvbisirddbesvybshqzqmbsqpqcsvr
tqisejhvqovshabobh,sJs orpsorv,sfnvsybsorpshgr bsrtsyjhsoqvjzbsjhdqoe;
qoe,sbqmbisvrsybqisyjhsyjhvric,sJsfbmmbesyjusvrsmrsrosqoesvbddsjv.sYb
mdqedcsarugdjbe.sVyrnmysqvsvybsvjubsJsfnvsjddsarugibyboebesorvsqstbpsrt
yjhsprieh,scbvshnfhblnbovsejhadrhnibh,spybosJsyqesfbarubsuribstqujdjqi
pjvysyjhsfir bosgyiqhbrdrmc,sorpsboqfdbsubsvrsgibhbovsvybspyrdbshvric
hnaysqhsjvsuqcsgirzbsjosvybsubibsh bdbvrosJsmjzb.


AYQGVBIs12.sFjrmiqgyjaqd.

LnbblnbmspqhsqsoqvjzbsrtsIr rzr r,sqosjhdqoestqisqpqcsvrsvybsPbhvsqoe
Hrnvy.sJvsjhsorvserposjosqocsuqg;svinbsgdqabhsobzbisqib.

Pybosqsobp-yqvaybeshqzqmbsinoojomspjdesqfrnvsyjhsoqvjzbsprredqoehsjosq
miqhhsadrnv,strddrpbesfcsvybsojffdjomsmrqvh,sqhsjtsybspbibsqsmibbo
hqgdjom;sbzbosvybo,sjosLnbblnbm’hsqufjvjrnhshrnd,sdni besqshvirom
ebhjibsvrshbbshrubvyjomsuribsrtsAyijhvboerusvyqosqshgbajubospyqdbisri
vpr.sYjhstqvybispqhsqsYjmysAyjbt,sqs jom;syjhsnoadbsqsYjmysGijbhv;sqoe
rosvybsuqvbioqdshjebsybsfrqhvbesqnovhspyrspbibsvybspjzbhsrt
noarolnbiqfdbspqiijrih.sVybibspqhsbxabddbovsfdrresjosyjhszbjoh—ircqd
hvntt;svyrnmyshqedcszjvjqvbe,sJstbqi,sfcsvybsaqoojfqdsgirgbohjvcsyb
ornijhybesjosyjhsnovnvribescrnvy.

QsHqmsYqifrishyjgszjhjvbesyjhstqvybi’hsfqc,sqoesLnbblnbmshrnmyvsq
gqhhqmbsvrsAyijhvjqosdqoeh.sFnvsvybshyjg,syqzjomsybistnddsarugdbubovsrt
hbqubo,shgniobesyjhshnjv;sqoesorvsqddsvybs jomsyjhstqvybi’hsjotdnboab
arndesgibzqjd.sFnvsLnbblnbmszrpbesqszrp.sQdrobsjosyjhsaqorb,sybsgqeedbe
rttsvrsqsejhvqovshviqjv,spyjaysybs obpsvybshyjgsunhvsgqhhsvyirnmyspybo
hybslnjvvbesvybsjhdqoe.sRosrobshjebspqhsqsariqdsibbt;srosvybsrvybisq
drpsvromnbsrtsdqoe,sarzbibespjvysuqomirzbsvyja bvhsvyqvsmibpsrnvsjovr
vybspqvbi.sYjejomsyjhsaqorb,shvjddsqtdrqv,squromsvybhbsvyja bvh,spjvy
jvhsgirpshbqpqie,sybshqvserposjosvybshvbio,sgqeedbsdrpsjosyqoe;sqoe
pybosvybshyjgspqhsmdjejomsfc,sdj bsqstdqhysybseqivbesrnv;smqjobesybi
hjeb;spjvysrobsfqa pqieseqhysrtsyjhstrrvsaqghjwbesqoeshqo syjhsaqorb;
adjufbesngsvybsayqjoh;sqoesvyirpjomsyjuhbdtsqvstnddsdbomvysngrosvyb
eba ,smiqggdbesqsijom-frdvsvybib,sqoeshpribsorvsvrsdbvsjvsmr,svyrnmy
yqa besjosgjbabh.

Joszqjosvybsaqgvqjosvyibqvbobesvrsvyirpsyjusrzbifrqie;shnhgboebesq
anvdqhhsrzbisyjhsoq bespijhvh;sLnbblnbmspqhsvybshrosrtsqs jom,sqoe
Lnbblnbmsfnembesorv.sHvina sfcsyjhsebhgbiqvbseqnovdbhhobhh,sqoesyjh
pjdesebhjibsvrszjhjvsAyijhvboeru,svybsaqgvqjosqvsdqhvsibdbovbe,sqoe
vrdesyjusybsujmyvsuq bsyjuhbdtsqvsyrub.sFnvsvyjhstjobscrnomshqzqmb—vyjh
hbqsGijoabsrtsPqdbh,sobzbishqpsvybsAqgvqjo’hsaqfjo.sVybcsgnvsyjuserpo
quromsvybshqjdrih,sqoesuqebsqspyqdbuqosrtsyju.sFnvsdj bsAwqisGbvbi
arovbovsvrsvrjdsjosvybshyjgcqiehsrtstribjmosajvjbh,sLnbblnbmsejheqjobe
orshbbujomsjmorujoc,sjtsvybibfcsybsujmyvsyqggjdcsmqjosvybsgrpbisrt
bodjmyvbojomsyjhsnovnvribesarnovicubo.sTrisqvsfrvvru—hrsybsvrdesub—yb
pqhsqavnqvbesfcsqsgirtrnoesebhjibsvrsdbqiosquromsvybsAyijhvjqoh,svyb
qivhspybibfcsvrsuq bsyjhsgbrgdbshvjddsyqggjbisvyqosvybcspbib;sqoesurib
vyqosvyqv,shvjddsfbvvbisvyqosvybcspbib.sFnv,sqdqh!svybsgiqavjabhsrt
pyqdbuboshrrosarozjoabesyjusvyqvsbzbosAyijhvjqohsarndesfbsfrvy
ujhbiqfdbsqoespja be;sjotjojvbdcsuribshr,svyqosqddsyjhstqvybi’h
ybqvyboh.sQiijzbesqvsdqhvsjosrdesHqmsYqifri;sqoeshbbjomspyqvsvyb
hqjdrihsejesvybib;sqoesvybosmrjomsrosvrsOqovna bv,sqoeshbbjomsyrpsvybc
hgbovsvybjispqmbhsjos_vyqv_sgdqabsqdhr,sgrrisLnbblnbmsmqzbsjvsngstri
drhv.sVyrnmyvsyb,sjv’hsqspja bespridesjosqddsubijejqoh;sJ’ddsejbsq
gqmqo.

Qoesvynhsqosrdesjerdqvrisqvsybqiv,sybscbvsdjzbesquromsvybhbsAyijhvjqoh,
pribsvybjisadrvybh,sqoesvijbesvrsvqd svybjismjffbijhy.sYboabsvybslnbbi
pqchsqfrnvsyju,svyrnmysorpshrubsvjubstirusyrub.

Fcsyjovh,sJsqh besyjuspybvybisybsejesorvsgirgrhbsmrjomsfqa ,sqoesyqzjom
qsariroqvjro;shjoabsybsujmyvsorpsarohjebisyjhstqvybisebqesqoesmrob,syb
fbjomszbicsrdesqoestbbfdbsqvsvybsdqhvsqaarnovh.sYbsqohpbibesor,sorv
cbv;sqoesqeebesvyqvsybspqhstbqitndsAyijhvjqojvc,srisiqvybisAyijhvjqoh,
yqesnotjvvbesyjustrisqhaboejomsvybsgnibsqoesnoebtjdbesvyirobsrtsvyjivc
gqmqos jomhsfbtribsyju.sFnvsfcsqoesfc,sybshqje,sybsprndesibvnio,—qh
hrrosqhsybstbdvsyjuhbdtsfqgvjwbesqmqjo.sTrisvybsoroab,syrpbzbi,syb
girgrhbesvrshqjdsqfrnv,sqoeshrpsyjhspjdesrqvhsjosqddstrnisrabqoh.sVybc
yqesuqebsqsyqigrrobbisrtsyju,sqoesvyqvsfqifbesjirospqhsjosdjbnsrtsq
habgvibsorp.

Jsqh besyjuspyqvsujmyvsfbsyjhsjuubejqvbsgnigrhb,svrnayjomsyjhstnvnib
urzbubovh.sYbsqohpbibe,svrsmrsvrshbqsqmqjo,sjosyjhsrdeszraqvjro.sNgro
vyjh,sJsvrdesyjusvyqvspyqdjomspqhsucsrposebhjmo,sqoesjotriubesyjusrtsuc
jovbovjrosvrshqjdsrnvsrtsOqovna bv,sqhsfbjomsvybsurhvsgirujhjomsgriv
trisqosqezbovnirnhspyqdbuqosvrsbufqi stiru.sYbsqvsroabsibhrdzbesvr
qaarugqocsubsvrsvyqvsjhdqoe,shyjgsqfrqiesvybshqubszbhhbd,smbvsjovrsvyb
hqubspqvay,svybshqubsfrqv,svybshqubsubhhspjvysub,sjoshyrivsvrshyqibsuc
bzbicsyqg;spjvysfrvysucsyqoehsjosyjh,sfrdedcsejgsjovrsvybsGrvdna srt
frvysprideh.sVrsqddsvyjhsJskrcrnhdcsqhhbovbe;strisfbhjebhsvybsqttbavjro
JsorpstbdvstrisLnbblnbm,sybspqhsqosbxgbijboabesyqigrrobbi,sqoesqhshnay,
arndesorvstqjdsvrsfbsrtsmibqvsnhbtndobhhsvrsrob,spyr,sdj bsub,spqh
pyrddcsjmoriqovsrtsvybsuchvbijbhsrtspyqdjom,svyrnmyspbddsqalnqjovbe
pjvysvybshbq,sqhs orposvrsubiayqovshbqubo.

Yjhshvricsfbjomsboebespjvysyjhsgjgb’hsdqhvsecjomsgntt,sLnbblnbm
bufiqabesub,sgibhhbesyjhstribybqesqmqjohvsujob,sqoesfdrpjomsrnvsvyb
djmyv,spbsirddbesrzbistirusbqaysrvybi,svyjhspqcsqoesvyqv,sqoeszbicshrro
pbibshdbbgjom.


AYQGVBIs13.sPybbdfqiirp.

Obxvsuriojom,sUroeqc,sqtvbisejhgrhjomsrtsvybsbufqdubesybqesvrsqsfqifbi,
trisqsfdra ,sJshbvvdbesucsrposqoesaruiqeb’hsfjdd;snhjom,syrpbzbi,suc
aruiqeb’hsurobc.sVybsmijoojomsdqoedrie,sqhspbddsqhsvybsfrqiebih,shbbube
quqwjomdcsvja dbesqvsvybshneebostijboehyjgspyjaysyqeshginomsngsfbvpbbo
ubsqoesLnbblnbm—bhgbajqddcsqhsGbvbisArttjo’hsara sqoesfnddshvrijbh
qfrnvsyjusyqesgibzjrnhdcshrsunaysqdqiubesubsaroabiojomsvybszbicsgbihro
pyrusJsorpsarugqojbespjvy.

Pbsfriirpbesqspybbdfqiirp,sqoesbufqi jomsrnisvyjomh,sjoadnejomsucsrpo
grrisaqigbv-fqm,sqoesLnbblnbm’hsaqozqhshqa sqoesyquura ,sqpqcspbspbov
erposvrs“vybsUrhh,”svybsdjvvdbsOqovna bvsgqa bvshayrrobisurribesqvsvyb
pyqit.sQhspbspbibsmrjomsqdromsvybsgbrgdbshvqibe;sorvsqvsLnbblnbmshr
unay—trisvybcspbibsnhbesvrshbbjomsaqoojfqdhsdj bsyjusjosvybji
hvibbvh,—fnvsqvshbbjomsyjusqoesubsngroshnaysarotjebovjqdsvbiuh.sFnvspb
ybbebesvybusorv,smrjomsqdromspybbdjomsvybsfqiirpsfcsvnioh,sqoesLnbblnbm
orpsqoesvyboshvrggjomsvrsqeknhvsvybshybqvysrosyjhsyqigrrosfqifh.sJ
qh besyjuspycsybsaqiijbeshnaysqsvirnfdbhrubsvyjomspjvysyjusqhyrib,sqoe
pybvybisqddspyqdjomshyjghsejesorvstjoesvybjisrposyqigrroh.sVrsvyjh,sjo
hnfhvqoab,sybsibgdjbe,svyqvsvyrnmyspyqvsJsyjovbespqhsvinbsbornmy,scbv
ybsyqesqsgqivjandqisqttbavjrostrisyjhsrposyqigrro,sfbaqnhbsjvspqhsrt
qhhnibeshvntt,spbddsvijbesjosuqocsqsurivqdsarufqv,sqoesebbgdcsjovjuqvb
pjvysvybsybqivhsrtspyqdbh.sJoshyriv,sdj bsuqocsjodqoesibqgbihsqoe
urpbih,spyrsmrsjovrsvybstqiubih’subqerphsqiubespjvysvybjisrpo
hacvybh—vyrnmysjosorspjhbsrfdjmbesvrstniojhysvybu—bzboshr,sLnbblnbm,
trisyjhsrposgijzqvbsibqhroh,sgibtbiibesyjhsrposyqigrro.

Hyjtvjomsvybsfqiirpstirusucsyqoesvrsyjh,sybsvrdesubsqstnoocshvricsqfrnv
vybstjihvspybbdfqiirpsybsyqesbzbishbbo.sJvspqhsjosHqmsYqifri.sVyb
rpobihsrtsyjhshyjg,sjvshbbuh,syqesdbovsyjusrob,sjospyjaysvrsaqiicsyjh
ybqzcsaybhvsvrsyjhsfrqiejomsyrnhb.sOrvsvrshbbusjmoriqovsqfrnvsvyb
vyjom—vyrnmysjosvinvysybspqhsbovjibdcshr,saroabiojomsvybsgibajhbspqcsjo
pyjaysvrsuqoqmbsvybsfqiirp—Lnbblnbmsgnvhsyjhsaybhvsngrosjv;sdqhybhsjv
tqhv;sqoesvyboshyrndebihsvybsfqiirpsqoesuqiaybhsngsvybspyqit.s“Pyc,”
hqjesJ,s“Lnbblnbm,scrnsujmyvsyqzbs orposfbvvbisvyqosvyqv,srobsprnde
vyjo .sEjeo’vsvybsgbrgdbsdqnmy?”

Ngrosvyjh,sybsvrdesubsqorvybishvric.sVybsgbrgdbsrtsyjhsjhdqoesrt
Ir rzr r,sjvshbbuh,sqvsvybjispbeejomstbqhvhsbxgibhhsvybstiqmiqovspqvbi
rtscrnomsararqonvhsjovrsqsdqimbshvqjobesaqdqfqhysdj bsqsgnoayfrpd;sqoe
vyjhsgnoayfrpdsqdpqchstriuhsvybsmibqvsaboviqdsrioqubovsrosvybsfiqjebe
uqvspybibsvybstbqhvsjhsybde.sOrpsqsabivqjosmiqoesubiayqovshyjgsroab
vrnaybesqvsIr rzr r,sqoesjvhsaruuqoebi—tirusqddsqaarnovh,sqszbic
hvqvbdcsgnoavjdjrnhsmbovdbuqo,sqvsdbqhvstrisqshbqsaqgvqjo—vyjh
aruuqoebispqhsjozjvbesvrsvybspbeejomstbqhvsrtsLnbblnbm’hshjhvbi,sq
gibvvcscrnomsgijoabhhsknhvsvniobesrtsvbo.sPbdd;spybosqddsvybspbeejom
mnbhvhspbibsqhhbufdbesqvsvybsfijeb’hsfqufrrsarvvqmb,svyjhsAqgvqjo
uqiaybhsjo,sqoesfbjomsqhhjmobesvybsgrhvsrtsyrori,sgdqabesyjuhbdtsrzbi
qmqjohvsvybsgnoayfrpd,sqoesfbvpbbosvybsYjmysGijbhvsqoesyjhsuqkbhvcsvyb
 jom,sLnbblnbm’hstqvybi.sMiqabsfbjomshqje,—trisvyrhbsgbrgdbsyqzbsvybji
miqabsqhspbddsqhspb—vyrnmysLnbblnbmsvrdesubsvyqvsnodj bsnh,spyrsqvshnay
vjubhsdrr serpopqiehsvrsrnisgdqvvbih,svybc,srosvybsaroviqic,sargcjom
vybsena h,smdqoabsngpqiehsvrsvybsmibqvsMjzbisrtsqddstbqhvh—Miqab,sJ
hqc,sfbjomshqje,svybsYjmysGijbhvsrgbohsvybsfqolnbvsfcsvybsjuuburijqd
abiburocsrtsvybsjhdqoe;svyqvsjh,sejggjomsyjhsarohbaiqvbesqoe
arohbaiqvjomstjombihsjovrsvybsfrpdsfbtribsvybsfdbhhbesfbzbiqmb
ajiandqvbh.sHbbjomsyjuhbdtsgdqabesobxvsvybsGijbhv,sqoesorvjomsvyb
abiburoc,sqoesvyjo jomsyjuhbdt—fbjomsAqgvqjosrtsqshyjg—qhsyqzjomsgdqjo
gibabeboabsrzbisqsubibsjhdqoes jom,sbhgbajqddcsjosvybs jom’hsrpo
yrnhb—vybsAqgvqjosarrddcsgirabbehsvrspqhysyjhsyqoehsjosvyb
gnoayfrpd;—vq jomsjvsJshnggrhbstrisqsynmbstjombi-mdqhh.s“Orp,”shqje
Lnbblnbm,s“pyqvscrnsvjo sorp?—Ejeo’vsrnisgbrgdbsdqnmy?”

Qvsdqhv,sgqhhqmbsgqje,sqoesdnmmqmbshqtb,spbshvrresrosfrqiesvyb
hayrrobi.sYrjhvjomshqjd,sjvsmdjebeserposvybsQanhyobvsijzbi.sRosrob
hjeb,sObpsFbetriesirhbsjosvbiiqabhsrtshvibbvh,svybjisjab-arzbibesvibbh
qddsmdjvvbijomsjosvybsadbqi,sardesqji.sYnmbsyjddhsqoesurnovqjohsrt
aqh hsrosaqh hspbibsgjdbesngrosybispyqizbh,sqoeshjebsfcshjebsvyb
pride-pqoebijomspyqdbshyjghsdqcshjdbovsqoeshqtbdcsurribesqvsdqhv;spyjdb
tirusrvybihsaqubsqshrnoesrtsaqigbovbihsqoesarrgbih,spjvysfdboebesorjhbh
rtstjibhsqoestrimbhsvrsubdvsvybsgjvay,sqddsfbvr bojomsvyqvsobpsainjhbh
pbibsrosvybshvqiv;svyqvsrobsurhvsgbijdrnhsqoesdromszrcqmbsboebe,srodc
fbmjohsqshbaroe;sqoesqshbaroesboebe,srodcsfbmjohsqsvyjie,sqoeshrsro,
trisbzbisqoestrisqcb.sHnaysjhsvybsboedbhhobhh,scbq,svybsjovrdbiqfdbobhh
rtsqddsbqivydcsbttriv.

Mqjojomsvybsuribsrgbospqvbi,svybsfiqajomsfibbwbspqxbestibhy;svybsdjvvdb
Urhhsvrhhbesvybslnja strqustirusybisfrph,sqhsqscrnomsardvsyjh
horivjomh.sYrpsJshonttbesvyqvsVqivqisqji!—yrpsJshgniobesvyqvsvniogj b
bqivy!—vyqvsaruurosyjmypqcsqddsrzbisebovbespjvysvybsuqi hsrtshdqzjhy
ybbdhsqoesyrrth;sqoesvniobesubsvrsqeujibsvybsuqmoqojujvcsrtsvybshbq
pyjayspjddsgbiujvsorsibarieh.

Qvsvybshqubstrqu-trnovqjo,sLnbblnbmshbbubesvrseijo sqoesibbdspjvysub.
Yjhsenh csorhvijdhshpbddbesqgqiv;sybshyrpbesyjhstjdbesqoesgrjovbe
vbbvy.sRo,srospbstdbp;sqoesrnisrttjomsmqjobe,svybsUrhhsejesyruqmbsvr
vybsfdqhv;sena besqoesejzbesybisfrphsqhsqshdqzbsfbtribsvybsHndvqo.
Hjebpqchsdbqojom,spbshjebpqchseqivbe;sbzbicsirgbcqiosvjomdjomsdj bsq
pjib;svybsvprsvqddsuqhvhsfna djomsdj bsJoejqosaqobhsjosdqoesvrioqerbh.
Hrstnddsrtsvyjhsibbdjomshabobspbibspb,sqhspbshvrresfcsvybsgdnomjom
frphgijv,svyqvstrishrubsvjubspbsejesorvsorvjabsvybskbbijomsmdqoabhsrt
vybsgqhhbombih,sqsdnffbi-dj bsqhhbufdc,spyrsuqizbddbesvyqvsvprstbddrp
fbjomhshyrndesfbshrsarugqojroqfdb;sqhsvyrnmysqspyjvbsuqospbibsqocvyjom
uribsejmojtjbesvyqosqspyjvbpqhybesobmir.sFnvsvybibspbibshrubsfrrfjbh
qoesfnug johsvybib,spyr,sfcsvybjisjovbohbsmibboobhh,sunhvsyqzbsarub
tirusvybsybqivsqoesabovibsrtsqddszbienib.sLnbblnbmsaqnmyvsrobsrtsvybhb
crnomshqgdjomhsujuja jomsyjusfbyjoesyjhsfqa .sJsvyrnmyvsvybsfnug jo’h
yrnisrtserruspqhsarub.sEirggjomsyjhsyqigrro,svybsfiqpocshqzqmbsaqnmyv
yjusjosyjhsqiuh,sqoesfcsqosqdurhvsujiqandrnhsebxvbijvcsqoeshvibomvy,
hbovsyjusyjmysngsfrejdcsjovrsvybsqji;svyboshdjmyvdcsvqggjomsyjhshvbio
josuje-hrubihbv,svybstbddrpsdqoebespjvysfnihvjomsdnomhsngrosyjhstbbv,
pyjdbsLnbblnbm,svniojomsyjhsfqa sngrosyju,sdjmyvbesyjhsvruqyqp sgjgb
qoesgqhhbesjvsvrsubstrisqsgntt.

“Aqgvjom!sAqgvjom!”scbddbesvybsfnug jo,sinoojomsvrpqiehsvyqvsrttjabi;
“Aqgvjom,sAqgvjom,sybib’hsvybsebzjd.”

“Yqddr,s_crn_shji,”saijbesvybsAqgvqjo,sqsmqnovsijfsrtsvybshbq,shvqd jom
ngsvrsLnbblnbm,s“pyqvsjosvynoebiserscrnsubqosfcsvyqv?sEro’vscrns orp
crnsujmyvsyqzbs jddbesvyqvsayqg?”

“Pyqvsyjushqc?”shqjesLnbblnbm,sqhsybsujdedcsvniobesvrsub.

“Ybshqc,”shqjesJ,s“vyqvscrnsaqubsobqis jdd-bsvyqvsuqosvybib,”sgrjovjom
vrsvybshvjddshyjzbijomsmibboyrio.

“ jdd-b,”saijbesLnbblnbm,svpjhvjomsyjhsvqvvrrbestqabsjovrsqosnobqivydc
bxgibhhjrosrtsejheqjo,s“qy!syjusfbzcshuqdd-bstjhy-b;sLnbblnbmsors jdd-b
hrshuqdd-bstjhy-b;sLnbblnbms jdd-bsfjmspyqdb!”

“Drr scrn,”sirqibesvybsAqgvqjo,s“J’dds jdd-bs_crn_,scrnsaqoojfqd,sjt
crnsvicsqocsuribsrtscrnisvija hsqfrqiesybib;shrsujoescrnisbcb.”

Fnvsjvshrsyqggbobesknhvsvybo,svyqvsjvspqhsyjmysvjubstrisvybsAqgvqjosvr
ujoesyjhsrposbcb.sVybsgirejmjrnhshviqjosngrosvybsuqjo-hqjdsyqesgqivbe
vybspbqvybi-hybbv,sqoesvybsvibuboernhsfrruspqhsorpstdcjomstirushjebsvr
hjeb,sarugdbvbdcshpbbgjomsvybsbovjibsqtvbisgqivsrtsvybseba .sVybsgrri
tbddrpspyrusLnbblnbmsyqesyqoedbeshrsirnmydc,spqhshpbgvsrzbifrqie;sqdd
yqoehspbibsjosqsgqoja;sqoesvrsqvvbugvshoqvayjomsqvsvybsfrrusvrshvqcsjv,
hbbubesuqeobhh.sJvstdbpstirusijmyvsvrsdbtv,sqoesfqa sqmqjo,sqdurhvsjo
robsvja jomsrtsqspqvay,sqoesbzbicsjohvqovshbbubesrosvybsgrjovsrt
hoqggjomsjovrshgdjovbih.sOrvyjomspqhserob,sqoesorvyjomshbbubesaqgqfdb
rtsfbjomserob;svyrhbsroseba sinhybesvrpqiehsvybsfrph,sqoeshvrresbcbjom
vybsfrrusqhsjtsjvspbibsvybsdrpbiskqpsrtsqosbxqhgbiqvbespyqdb.sJosvyb
ujehvsrtsvyjhsarohvbioqvjro,sLnbblnbmseirggbesebtvdcsvrsyjhs obbh,sqoe
aiqpdjomsnoebisvybsgqvysrtsvybsfrru,spyjggbesyrdesrtsqsirgb,shbanibe
robsboesvrsvybsfndpqi h,sqoesvybostdjomjomsvybsrvybisdj bsqsdqhhr,
aqnmyvsjvsirnoesvybsfrrusqhsjvshpbgvsrzbisyjhsybqe,sqoesqvsvybsobxv
kbi ,svybshgqispqhsvyqvspqcsviqggbe,sqoesqddspqhshqtb.sVybshayrrobispqh
inosjovrsvybspjoe,sqoespyjdbsvybsyqoehspbibsadbqijomsqpqcsvybshvbio
frqv,sLnbblnbm,shvijggbesvrsvybspqjhv,seqivbestirusvybshjebspjvysqsdrom
djzjomsqiasrtsqsdbqg.sTrisvyibbsujonvbhsrisuribsybspqhshbboshpjuujom
dj bsqserm,svyirpjomsyjhsdromsqiuhshviqjmyvsrnvsfbtribsyju,sqoesfc
vniohsibzbqdjomsyjhsfiqpocshyrndebihsvyirnmysvybstibbwjomstrqu.sJ
drr besqvsvybsmiqoesqoesmdrijrnhstbddrp,sfnvshqpsorsrobsvrsfbshqzbe.
Vybsmibboyriosyqesmrobserpo.sHyrrvjomsyjuhbdtsgbigboejandqidcstirusvyb
pqvbi,sLnbblnbm,sorpsvrr sqosjohvqov’hsmdqoabsqirnoesyju,sqoeshbbujom
vrshbbsknhvsyrpsuqvvbihspbib,sejzbeserposqoesejhqggbqibe.sQstbpsujonvbh
urib,sqoesybsirhbsqmqjo,srobsqiushvjddshvij jomsrnv,sqoespjvysvybsrvybi
eiqmmjomsqsdjtbdbhhstriu.sVybsfrqvshrrosgja besvybusng.sVybsgrri
fnug jospqhsibhvribe.sQddsyqoehszrvbesLnbblnbmsqsorfdbsvinug;svyb
aqgvqjosfbmmbesyjhsgqiero.sTirusvyqvsyrnisJsadrzbsvrsLnbblnbmsdj bsq
fqioqadb;scbq,svjddsgrrisLnbblnbmsvrr syjhsdqhvsdromsejzb.

Pqhsvybibsbzbishnaysnoarohajrnhobhh?sYbsejesorvshbbusvrsvyjo svyqvsyb
qvsqddsebhbizbesqsubeqdstirusvybsYnuqobsqoesUqmoqojurnhsHrajbvjbh.sYb
rodcsqh bestrispqvbi—tibhyspqvbi—hrubvyjomsvrspjgbsvybsfijobsrtt;svyqv
erob,sybsgnvsroseicsadrvybh,sdjmyvbesyjhsgjgb,sqoesdbqojomsqmqjohvsvyb
fndpqi h,sqoesujdedcsbcbjomsvyrhbsqirnoesyju,shbbubesvrsfbshqcjomsvr
yjuhbdt—“Jv’hsqsunvnqd,skrjov-hvra spride,sjosqddsubijejqoh.sPb
aqoojfqdhsunhvsybdgsvybhbsAyijhvjqoh.”


AYQGVBIs14.sOqovna bv.

Orvyjomsuribsyqggbobesrosvybsgqhhqmbsprivycsvybsubovjrojom;shr,sqtvbisq
tjobsino,spbshqtbdcsqiijzbesjosOqovna bv.

Oqovna bv!sVq bsrnvscrnisuqgsqoesdrr sqvsjv.sHbbspyqvsqsibqdsariobisrt
vybspridesjvsraangjbh;syrpsjvshvqoehsvybib,sqpqcsrttshyrib,suribsdrobdc
vyqosvybsBeechvrobsdjmyvyrnhb.sDrr sqvsjv—qsubibsyjddra ,sqoesbdfrpsrt
hqoe;sqddsfbqay,spjvyrnvsqsfqa mirnoe.sVybibsjhsuribshqoesvybibsvyqo
crnsprndesnhbsjosvpbovcscbqihsqhsqshnfhvjvnvbstrisfdrvvjomsgqgbi.sHrub
mqubhrubspjmyvhspjddsvbddscrnsvyqvsvybcsyqzbsvrsgdqovspbbehsvybib,svybc
ero’vsmirpsoqvniqddc;svyqvsvybcsjugrivsAqoqeqsvyjhvdbh;svyqvsvybcsyqzb
vrshboesfbcroeshbqhstrisqshgjdbsvrshvrgsqsdbq sjosqosrjdsaqh ;svyqv
gjbabhsrtsprresjosOqovna bvsqibsaqiijbesqfrnvsdj bsfjvhsrtsvybsvinb
airhhsjosIrub;svyqvsgbrgdbsvybibsgdqovsvrqehvrrdhsfbtribsvybjisyrnhbh,
vrsmbvsnoebisvybshyqebsjoshnuubisvjub;svyqvsrobsfdqebsrtsmiqhhsuq bhsqo
rqhjh,svyibbsfdqebhsjosqseqc’hspqd sqsgiqjijb;svyqvsvybcspbqislnja hqoe
hyrbh,shrubvyjomsdj bsDqgdqoebishorp-hyrbh;svyqvsvybcsqibshrshynvsng,
fbdvbesqfrnv,sbzbicspqcsjoadrhbe,shniirnoebe,sqoesuqebsqosnvvbisjhdqoe
rtsfcsvybsrabqo,svyqvsvrsvybjiszbicsayqjihsqoesvqfdbhshuqddsadquhspjdd
hrubvjubhsfbstrnoesqeybijom,sqhsvrsvybsfqa hsrtshbqsvnivdbh.sFnvsvybhb
bxviqzqmqowqhsrodcshyrpsvyqvsOqovna bvsjhsorsJddjorjh.

Drr sorpsqvsvybsproeirnhsviqejvjroqdshvricsrtsyrpsvyjhsjhdqoespqh
hbvvdbesfcsvybsibe-ubo.sVynhsmrbhsvybsdbmboe.sJosrdebosvjubhsqosbqmdb
hprrgbeserposngrosvybsObpsBomdqoesarqhv,sqoesaqiijbesrttsqosjotqov
Joejqosjosyjhsvqdroh.sPjvysdrnesdqubovsvybsgqibovhshqpsvybjisayjde
friobsrnvsrtshjmyvsrzbisvybspjebspqvbih.sVybcsibhrdzbesvrstrddrpsjosvyb
hqubsejibavjro.sHbvvjomsrnvsjosvybjisaqorbh,sqtvbisqsgbijdrnhsgqhhqmb
vybcsejharzbibesvybsjhdqoe,sqoesvybibsvybcstrnoesqosbugvcsjzric
aqh bv,—vybsgrrisdjvvdbsJoejqo’hsh bdbvro.

Pyqvsproebi,svybo,svyqvsvybhbsOqovna bvbih,sfriosrosqsfbqay,shyrnde
vq bsvrsvybshbqstrisqsdjzbdjyrre!sVybcstjihvsaqnmyvsaiqfhsqoeslnryrmh
josvybshqoe;smirposfrdebi,svybcspqebesrnvspjvysobvhstrisuqa bibd;surib
bxgbijboabe,svybcsgnhybesrttsjosfrqvhsqoesaqgvnibesare;sqoesqvsdqhv,
dqnoayjomsqsoqzcsrtsmibqvshyjghsrosvybshbq,sbxgdribesvyjhspqvbicspride;
gnvsqosjoabhhqovsfbdvsrtsajianuoqzjmqvjrohsirnoesjv;sgbbgbesjosqv
Fbyijom’hsHviqjvh;sqoesjosqddshbqhrohsqoesqddsrabqohsebadqibe
bzbidqhvjomspqispjvysvybsujmyvjbhvsqojuqvbesuqhhsvyqvsyqhshnizjzbesvyb
tdrre;surhvsurohvirnhsqoesurhvsurnovqjornh!sVyqvsYjuuqdbyqo,shqdv-hbq
Uqhvrero,sadrvybespjvyshnaysgrivbovrnhobhhsrtsnoarohajrnhsgrpbi,svyqv
yjhszbicsgqojahsqibsuribsvrsfbseibqebesvyqosyjhsurhvstbqidbhhsqoe
uqdjajrnhsqhhqndvh!

Qoesvynhsyqzbsvybhbsoq besOqovna bvbih,svybhbshbqsybiujvh,sjhhnjomstiru
vybjisqov-yjddsjosvybshbq,srzbiinosqoesarolnbibesvybspqvbicspridesdj b
hrsuqocsQdbxqoebih;sgqiabddjomsrnvsquromsvybusvybsQvdqovja,sGqajtja,
qoesJoejqosrabqoh,sqhsvybsvyibbsgjiqvbsgrpbihsejesGrdqoe.sDbvsQubijaq
qeesUbxjarsvrsVbxqh,sqoesgjdbsAnfqsngrosAqoqeq;sdbvsvybsBomdjhy
rzbihpqiusqddsJoejq,sqoesyqomsrnvsvybjisfdqwjomsfqoobistirusvybshno;
vprsvyjiehsrtsvyjhsvbiiqlnbrnhsmdrfbsqibsvybsOqovna bvbi’h.sTrisvybshbq
jhsyjh;sybsrpohsjv,sqhsBugbirihsrposbugjibh;srvybishbqubosyqzjomsfnvsq
ijmyvsrtspqcsvyirnmysjv.sUbiayqovshyjghsqibsfnvsbxvbohjrosfijembh;
qiubesrobhsfnvstdrqvjomstrivh;sbzbosgjiqvbhsqoesgijzqvbbih,svyrnmy
trddrpjomsvybshbqsqhsyjmypqcubosvybsirqe,svybcsfnvsgdnoebisrvybishyjgh,
rvybistiqmubovhsrtsvybsdqoesdj bsvybuhbdzbh,spjvyrnvshbb jomsvrseiqp
vybjisdjzjomstirusvybsfrvvrudbhhsebbgsjvhbdt.sVybsOqovna bvbi,sybsqdrob
ibhjebhsqoesijrvhsrosvybshbq;sybsqdrob,sjosFjfdbsdqomnqmb,smrbhserposvr
jvsjoshyjgh;svrsqoestirsgdrnmyjomsjvsqhsyjhsrposhgbajqdsgdqovqvjro.
_Vybib_sjhsyjhsyrub;s_vybib_sdjbhsyjhsfnhjobhh,spyjaysqsOrqy’hstdrre
prndesorvsjovbiingv,svyrnmysjvsrzbipybdubesqddsvybsujddjrohsjosAyjoq.
Ybsdjzbhsrosvybshbq,sqhsgiqjijbsara hsjosvybsgiqjijb;sybsyjebhsqurom
vybspqzbh,sybsadjufhsvybusqhsayqurjhsynovbihsadjufsvybsQdgh.sTriscbqih
ybs orphsorvsvybsdqoe;shrsvyqvspybosybsarubhsvrsjvsqvsdqhv,sjvshubddh
dj bsqorvybispride,suribshviqombdcsvyqosvybsurrosprndesvrsqosBqivyhuqo.
Pjvysvybsdqoedbhhsmndd,svyqvsqvshnohbvstrdehsybispjomhsqoesjhsira besvr
hdbbgsfbvpbbosfjddrph;shrsqvsojmyvtqdd,svybsOqovna bvbi,srnvsrtshjmyv
rtsdqoe,stnidhsyjhshqjdh,sqoesdqchsyjusvrsyjhsibhv,spyjdbsnoebisyjh
zbicsgjddrpsinhysybiehsrtspqdinhbhsqoespyqdbh.


AYQGVBIs15.sAyrpebi.

JvspqhslnjvbsdqvbsjosvybsbzbojomspybosvybsdjvvdbsUrhhsaqubshonmdcsvr
qoayri,sqoesLnbblnbmsqoesJspbovsqhyrib;shrspbsarndesqvvboesvrsor
fnhjobhhsvyqvseqc,sqvsdbqhvsorobsfnvsqshnggbisqoesqsfbe.sVybsdqoedrie
rtsvybsHgrnvbi-JoosyqesibaruuboebesnhsvrsyjhsarnhjosYrhbqsYnhhbcsrtsvyb
VicsGrvh,spyrusybsqhhbivbesvrsfbsvybsgirgijbvrisrtsrobsrtsvybsfbhvs bgv
yrvbdhsjosqddsOqovna bv,sqoesuribrzbisybsyqesqhhnibesnhsvyqvsArnhjo
Yrhbq,sqhsybsaqddbesyju,spqhstqurnhstrisyjhsayrpebih.sJoshyriv,syb
gdqjodcsyjovbesvyqvspbsarndesorvsgrhhjfdcsersfbvvbisvyqosvicsgrv-dna 
qvsvybsVicsGrvh.sFnvsvybsejibavjrohsybsyqesmjzbosnhsqfrnvs bbgjomsq
cbddrpspqibyrnhbsrosrnishvqifrqiesyqoesvjddspbsrgbobesqspyjvbsayniaysvr
vybsdqifrqie,sqoesvybos bbgjomsvyqvsrosvybsdqifrqiesyqoesvjddspbsuqebsq
ariobisvyibbsgrjovhsvrsvybshvqifrqie,sqoesvyqvserob,svybosqh svybstjihv
uqospbsubvspybibsvybsgdqabspqh:svybhbsairr besejibavjrohsrtsyjhszbic
unaysgnwwdbesnhsqvstjihv,sbhgbajqddcsqh,sqvsvybsrnvhbv,sLnbblnbm
johjhvbesvyqvsvybscbddrpspqibyrnhb—rnistjihvsgrjovsrtsebgqivnib—unhvsfb
dbtvsrosvybsdqifrqiesyqoe,spybibqhsJsyqesnoebihvrresGbvbisArttjosvrshqc
jvspqhsrosvybshvqifrqie.sYrpbzbi,sfcsejovsrtsfbqvjomsqfrnvsqsdjvvdbsjo
vybseqi ,sqoesorpsqoesvybos ora jomsngsqsgbqabqfdbsjoyqfjvqovsvr
jolnjibsvybspqc,spbsqvsdqhvsaqubsvrshrubvyjomspyjaysvybibspqhsor
ujhvq jom.

Vprsboriurnhsprrebosgrvhsgqjovbesfdqa ,sqoeshnhgboebesfcsqhhbh’sbqih,
hpnomstirusvybsairhh-vibbhsrtsqosrdesvrg-uqhv,sgdqovbesjostirovsrtsqo
rdeserripqc.sVybsyriohsrtsvybsairhh-vibbhspbibshqpbesrttsrosvybsrvybi
hjeb,shrsvyqvsvyjhsrdesvrg-uqhvsdrr besorvsqsdjvvdbsdj bsqsmqddrph.
GbiyqghsJspqhsrzbishbohjvjzbsvrshnaysjugibhhjrohsqvsvybsvjub,sfnvsJ
arndesorvsybdgshvqijomsqvsvyjhsmqddrphspjvysqszqmnbsujhmjzjom.sQshriv
rtsaija spqhsjosucsoba sqhsJsmqwbesngsvrsvybsvprsibuqjojomsyrioh;scbh,
_vpr_srtsvybu,srobstrisLnbblnbm,sqoesrobstrisub.sJv’hsrujornh,svyjo h
J.sQsArttjosucsJoo bbgbisngrosdqoejomsjosucstjihvspyqdjomsgriv;
vrufhvrobhshvqijomsqvsubsjosvybspyqdbubo’hsayqgbd;sqoesybibsqsmqddrph!
qoesqsgqjisrtsgirejmjrnhsfdqa sgrvhsvrr!sQibsvybhbsdqhvsvyirpjomsrnv
rfdjlnbsyjovhsvrnayjomsVrgybv?

Jspqhsaqddbestirusvybhbsibtdbavjrohsfcsvybshjmyvsrtsqstiba dbespruqo
pjvyscbddrpsyqjisqoesqscbddrpsmrpo,shvqoejomsjosvybsgriaysrtsvybsjoo,
noebisqsenddsibesdqugshpjomjomsvybib,svyqvsdrr besunaysdj bsqosjoknibe
bcb,sqoesaqiicjomsrosqsfijh shardejomspjvysqsuqosjosqsgnigdbsprrddbo
hyjiv.

“Mbvsqdromspjvyscb,”shqjeshybsvrsvybsuqo,s“risJ’ddsfbsarufjomscb!”

“Arubsro,sLnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“qddsijmyv.sVybib’hsUih.sYnhhbc.”

Qoeshrsjvsvniobesrnv;sUi.sYrhbqsYnhhbcsfbjomstirusyrub,sfnvsdbqzjom
Uih.sYnhhbcsbovjibdcsarugbvbovsvrsqvvboesvrsqddsyjhsqttqjih.sNgro
uq joms orposrnisebhjibhstrisqshnggbisqoesqsfbe,sUih.sYnhhbc,
grhvgrojomstnivybishardejomstrisvybsgibhbov,snhybibesnhsjovrsqsdjvvdb
irru,sqoeshbqvjomsnhsqvsqsvqfdbshgibqespjvysvybsibdjahsrtsqsibabovdc
aroadnebesibgqhv,svniobesirnoesvrsnhsqoeshqje—“AdqusrisAre?”

“Pyqv’hsvyqvsqfrnvsAreh,suq’qu?”shqjesJ,spjvysunaysgrdjvbobhh.

“AdqusrisAre?”shybsibgbqvbe.

“Qsadqustrishnggbi?sqsardesadqu;sjhs_vyqv_spyqvscrnsubqo,sUih.sYnhhbc?”
hqchsJ,s“fnvsvyqv’hsqsiqvybisardesqoesadquucsibabgvjrosjosvybspjovbi
vjub,sqjo’vsjv,sUih.sYnhhbc?”

Fnvsfbjomsjosqsmibqvsyniicsvrsibhnubshardejomsvybsuqosjosvybsgnigdb
Hyjiv,spyrspqhspqjvjomstrisjvsjosvybsbovic,sqoeshbbujomsvrsybqisorvyjom
fnvsvybspries“adqu,”sUih.sYnhhbcsyniijbesvrpqiehsqosrgboserrisdbqejom
vrsvybs jvaybo,sqoesfqpdjomsrnvs“adqustrisvpr,”sejhqggbqibe.

“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“erscrnsvyjo svyqvspbsaqosuq bsrnvsqshnggbistrisnh
frvysrosrobsadqu?”

Yrpbzbi,sqspqiushqzricshvbqustirusvybs jvayboshbizbesvrsfbdjbsvyb
qggqibovdcsaybbidbhhsgirhgbavsfbtribsnh.sFnvspybosvyqvshur jomsayrpebi
aqubsjo,svybsuchvbicspqhsebdjmyvtnddcsbxgdqjobe.sRy,shpbbvstijboeh!
ybqi bosvrsub.sJvspqhsuqebsrtshuqddsknjacsadquh,shaqiabdcsfjmmbisvyqo
yqwbdsonvh,sujxbespjvysgrnoebeshyjgsfjhanjv,sqoeshqdvbesgri sanvsng
jovrsdjvvdbstdq bh;svybspyrdbsboijaybespjvysfnvvbi,sqoesgdbovjtnddc
hbqhrobespjvysgbggbisqoeshqdv.sRnisqggbvjvbhsfbjomshyqigbobesfcsvyb
tirhvcszrcqmb,sqoesjosgqivjandqi,sLnbblnbmshbbjomsyjhstqzrnijvbstjhyjom
trresfbtribsyju,sqoesvybsayrpebisfbjomshnigqhhjomdcsbxabddbov,spb
ebhgqvaybesjvspjvysmibqvsbxgbejvjro:spybosdbqojomsfqa sqsurubovsqoe
fbvyjo jomsubsrtsUih.sYnhhbc’hsadqusqoesaresqoornoabubov,sJsvyrnmyvsJ
prndesvicsqsdjvvdbsbxgbijubov.sHvbggjomsvrsvybs jvayboserri,sJsnvvbibe
vybspries“are”spjvysmibqvsbugyqhjh,sqoesibhnubesucshbqv.sJosqstbp
urubovhsvybshqzrnicshvbqusaqubstrivysqmqjo,sfnvspjvysqsejttbibov
tdqzri,sqoesjosmrresvjubsqstjobsare-ayrpebispqhsgdqabesfbtribsnh.

Pbsibhnubesfnhjobhh;sqoespyjdbsgdcjomsrnishgrrohsjosvybsfrpd,svyjo hsJ
vrsuchbdt,sJsproebisorpsjtsvyjhsybibsyqhsqocsbttbavsrosvybsybqe?sPyqv’h
vyqvshvndvjtcjomshqcjomsqfrnvsayrpebi-ybqebesgbrgdb?s“Fnvsdrr ,
Lnbblnbm,sqjo’vsvyqvsqsdjzbsbbdsjoscrnisfrpd?sPybib’hscrnisyqigrro?”

TjhyjbhvsrtsqddstjhycsgdqabhspqhsvybsVicsGrvh,spyjayspbddsebhbizbesjvh
oqub;strisvybsgrvhsvybibspbibsqdpqchsfrjdjomsayrpebih.sAyrpebistri
fibq tqhv,sqoesayrpebistrisejoobi,sqoesayrpebistrishnggbi,svjddscrn
fbmqosvrsdrr stristjhy-frobhsarujomsvyirnmyscrnisadrvybh.sVybsqibq
fbtribsvybsyrnhbspqhsgqzbespjvysadqu-hybddh.sUih.sYnhhbcspribsq
grdjhybesoba dqabsrtsaretjhyszbivbfiq;sqoesYrhbqsYnhhbcsyqesyjhsqaarnov
frr hsfrnoesjoshngbijrisrdeshyqi -h jo.sVybibspqhsqstjhycstdqzrisvrsvyb
ujd ,svrr,spyjaysJsarndesorvsqvsqddsqaarnovstri,svjddsrobsuriojom
yqggbojomsvrsvq bsqshvirddsqdromsvybsfbqaysquromshrubstjhybiubo’h
frqvh,sJshqpsYrhbq’hsfijoedbesarpstbbejomsrostjhysibuoqovh,sqoe
uqiayjomsqdromsvybshqoespjvysbqaystrrvsjosqsare’hsebaqgjvqvbesybqe,
drr jomszbicshdjg-hyre,sJsqhhnibscb.

Hnggbisaroadnebe,spbsibabjzbesqsdqug,sqoesejibavjrohstirusUih.sYnhhbc
aroabiojomsvybsobqibhvspqcsvrsfbe;sfnv,sqhsLnbblnbmspqhsqfrnvsvr
gibabebsubsngsvybshvqjih,svybsdqecsibqaybestrivysybisqiu,sqoesebuqoebe
yjhsyqigrro;shybsqddrpbesorsyqigrrosjosybisayqufbih.s“Pycsorv?”shqjesJ;
“bzbicsvinbspyqdbuqoshdbbghspjvysyjhsyqigrro—fnvspycsorv?”s“Fbaqnhb
jv’hseqombirnh,”shqchshyb.s“BzbishjoabscrnomsHvjmmhsarujomstirusvyqv
notriv’ovsz’c’mbsrtsyjh,spybosybspqhsmrobstrniscbqihsqoesqsyqdt,spjvy
rodcsvyibbsfqiibdhsrts_jdb_,spqhstrnoesebqesjosucstjihvstdrrisfqa ,
pjvysyjhsyqigrrosjosyjhshjeb;sbzbishjoabsvybosJsqddrpsorsfrqiebihsvr
vq bshjayseqombirnhspbbgrohsjosvybjisirruhsqvsojmyv.sHr,sUi.sLnbblnbm”
(trishybsyqesdbqiobesyjhsoqub),s“Jspjddsknhvsvq bsvyjhsybibsjiro,sqoe
 bbgsjvstriscrnsvjddsuriojom.sFnvsvybsayrpebi;sadqusrisaresvr-uriirp
trisfibq tqhv,subo?”

“Frvy,”shqchsJ;s“qoesdbv’hsyqzbsqsarngdbsrtshur besybiijomsfcspqcsrt
zqijbvc.”


AYQGVBIs16.sVybsHyjg.

Josfbespbsaroaravbesrnisgdqohstrisvybsuriirp.sFnvsvrsucshnigijhbsqoesor
huqddsaroabio,sLnbblnbmsorpsmqzbsubsvrsnoebihvqoe,svyqvsybsyqesfbbo
ejdjmbovdcsarohndvjomsCrkr—vybsoqubsrtsyjhsfdqa sdjvvdbsmre—qoesCrkr
yqesvrdesyjusvprsrisvyibbsvjubhsrzbi,sqoeshviromdcsjohjhvbesngrosjv
bzbicpqc,svyqvsjohvbqesrtsrnismrjomsvrmbvybisquromsvybspyqdjom-tdbbvsjo
yqifri,sqoesjosaroabivshbdbavjomsrnisaiqtv;sjohvbqesrtsvyjh,sJshqc,
Crkrsbqiobhvdcsbokrjobesvyqvsvybshbdbavjrosrtsvybshyjgshyrndesibhv
pyrddcspjvysub,sjoqhunaysqhsCrkrsgnigrhbesfbtijboejomsnh;sqoe,sjosriebi
vrsershr,syqesqdibqecsgjvaybesngrosqszbhhbd,spyjay,sjtsdbtvsvrsuchbdt,
J,sJhyuqbd,shyrndesjotqddjfdcsdjmyvsngro,strisqddsvybspridesqhsvyrnmy
jvsyqesvniobesrnvsfcsayqoab;sqoesjosvyqvszbhhbdsJsunhvsjuubejqvbdcshyjg
uchbdt,strisvybsgibhbovsjiibhgbavjzbsrtsLnbblnbm.

Jsyqzbstrimrvvbosvrsubovjrosvyqv,sjosuqocsvyjomh,sLnbblnbmsgdqabesmibqv
arotjeboabsjosvybsbxabddboabsrtsCrkr’hsknemubovsqoeshnigijhjomstribaqhv
rtsvyjomh;sqoesaybijhybesCrkrspjvysarohjebiqfdbsbhvbbu,sqhsqsiqvybi
mrreshrivsrtsmre,spyrsgbiyqghsubqovspbddsbornmysngrosvybspyrdb,sfnvsjo
qddsaqhbhsejesorvshnaabbesjosyjhsfbobzrdbovsebhjmoh.

Orp,svyjhsgdqosrtsLnbblnbm’h,srisiqvybisCrkr’h,svrnayjomsvybshbdbavjro
rtsrnisaiqtv;sJsejesorvsdj bsvyqvsgdqosqvsqdd.sJsyqesorvsqsdjvvdb
ibdjbesngrosLnbblnbm’hshqmqajvcsvrsgrjovsrnvsvybspyqdbisfbhvstjvvbesvr
aqiicsnhsqoesrnistrivnobhshbanibdc.sFnvsqhsqddsucsiburohviqoabh
girenabesorsbttbavsngrosLnbblnbm,sJspqhsrfdjmbesvrsqalnjbhab;sqoe
qaariejomdcsgibgqibesvrshbvsqfrnvsvyjhsfnhjobhhspjvysqsebvbiujobe
inhyjomshrivsrtsbobimcsqoeszjmri,svyqvshyrndeslnja dcshbvvdbsvyqv
vijtdjomsdjvvdbsqttqji.sObxvsuriojomsbqidc,sdbqzjomsLnbblnbmshynvsng
pjvysCrkrsjosrnisdjvvdbsfbeirru—trisjvshbbubesvyqvsjvspqhshrubshrivsrt
DbovsrisIquqeqo,sriseqcsrtstqhvjom,synujdjqvjro,sqoesgiqcbispjvy
LnbblnbmsqoesCrkrsvyqvseqc;s_yrp_sjvspqhsJsobzbisarndestjoesrnv,stri,
vyrnmysJsqggdjbesuchbdtsvrsjvshbzbiqdsvjubh,sJsobzbisarndesuqhvbisyjh
djvnimjbhsqoesXXXJXsQivjadbh—dbqzjomsLnbblnbm,svybo,stqhvjomsrosyjh
vruqyqp sgjgb,sqoesCrkrspqiujomsyjuhbdtsqvsyjhshqaijtjajqdstjibsrt
hyqzjomh,sJshqddjbesrnvsquromsvybshyjggjom.sQtvbisunaysgirdrombe
hqnovbijomsqoesuqocsiqoerusjolnjijbh,sJsdbqiovsvyqvsvybibspbibsvyibb
hyjghsngstrisvyibb-cbqih’szrcqmbh—VybsEbzjd-equ,svybsVjv-fjv,sqoesvyb
Gblnre.s_Ebzjd-Equ_,sJsersorvs orpsvybsrijmjosrt;s_Vjv-fjv_sjhsrfzjrnh;
_Gblnre_,scrnspjddsorsernfvsibubufbi,spqhsvybsoqubsrtsqsabdbfiqvbe
vijfbsrtsUqhhqaynhbvvhsJoejqoh;sorpsbxvjoavsqhsvybsqoajbovsUbebh.sJ
gbbibesqoesgicbesqfrnvsvybsEbzjd-equ;stirusybi,syrggbesrzbisvrsvyb
Vjv-fjv;sqoestjoqddc,smrjomsrosfrqiesvybsGblnre,sdrr besqirnoesybistri
qsurubov,sqoesvybosebajebesvyqvsvyjhspqhsvybszbicshyjgstrisnh.

Crnsuqcsyqzbshbbosuqocsqslnqjovsaiqtvsjoscrniseqc,strisqnmyvsJ
 orp;—hlnqib-vrbesdnmmbih;surnovqjornhsKqgqobhbskno h;sfnvvbi-frx
mqddjrvh,sqoespyqvsorv;sfnvsvq bsucspriestrisjv,scrnsobzbishqpshnaysq
iqibsrdesaiqtvsqhsvyjhshqubsiqibsrdesGblnre.sHybspqhsqshyjgsrtsvybsrde
hayrrd,siqvybishuqddsjtsqocvyjom;spjvysqosrde-tqhyjrobesadqp-trrvbe
drr sqfrnvsybi.sDromshbqhrobesqoespbqvybi-hvqjobesjosvybsvcgyrrohsqoe
aqduhsrtsqddstrnisrabqoh,sybisrdesyndd’hsarugdbxjrospqhseqi bobesdj bsq
Tiboaysmiboqejbi’h,spyrsyqhsqdj bstrnmyvsjosBmcgvsqoesHjfbijq.sYbi
zbobiqfdbsfrphsdrr besfbqiebe.sYbisuqhvh—anvshrubpybibsrosvybsarqhvsrt
Kqgqo,spybibsybisrijmjoqdsrobhspbibsdrhvsrzbifrqiesjosqsmqdb—ybisuqhvh
hvrreshvjttdcsngsdj bsvybshgjobhsrtsvybsvyibbsrdes jomhsrtsArdrmob.sYbi
qoajbovseba hspbibspriosqoespijo dbe,sdj bsvybsgjdmiju-prihyjggbe
tdqm-hvrobsjosAqovbifnicsAqvybeiqdspybibsFba bvsfdbe.sFnvsvrsqddsvybhb
ybisrdesqovjlnjvjbh,spbibsqeebesobpsqoesuqizbddrnhstbqvnibh,sgbivqjojom
vrsvybspjdesfnhjobhhsvyqvstrisuribsvyqosyqdtsqsabovnicshybsyqe
trddrpbe.sRdesAqgvqjosGbdbm,suqocscbqihsybisayjbt-uqvb,sfbtribsyb
aruuqoebesqorvybiszbhhbdsrtsyjhsrpo,sqoesorpsqsibvjibeshbquqo,sqoesrob
rtsvybsgijoajgqdsrpobihsrtsvybsGblnre,—vyjhsrdesGbdbm,senijomsvybsvbiu
rtsyjhsayjbt-uqvbhyjg,syqesfnjdvsngrosybisrijmjoqdsmirvbhlnbobhh,sqoe
jodqjesjv,sqddsrzbi,spjvysqslnqjovobhhsfrvysrtsuqvbijqdsqoesebzjab,
nouqvaybesfcsqocvyjomsbxabgvsjvsfbsVyri jdd-Yq b’hsaqizbesfna dbisri
fbehvbqe.sHybspqhsqggqibddbesdj bsqocsfqifqijasBvyjrgjqosbugbiri,syjh
oba sybqzcspjvysgboeqovhsrtsgrdjhybesjzric.sHybspqhsqsvyjomsrt
virgyjbh.sQsaqoojfqdsrtsqsaiqtv,svija jomsybihbdtstrivysjosvybsayqhbe
frobhsrtsybisbobujbh.sQddsirnoe,sybisnogqobddbe,srgbosfndpqi hspbib
mqiojhybesdj bsrobsarovjonrnhskqp,spjvysvybsdromshyqigsvbbvysrtsvyb
hgbiuspyqdb,sjohbivbesvybibstrisgjoh,svrstqhvbosybisrdesybugbosvybph
qoesvboerohsvr.sVyrhbsvybphsiqosorvsvyirnmysfqhbsfdra hsrtsdqoesprre,
fnvsebtvdcsviqzbddbesrzbishybqzbhsrtshbq-jzric.sHariojomsqsvniohvjdb
pybbdsqvsybisibzbiboesybdu,shybshgrivbesvybibsqsvjddbi;sqoesvyqvsvjddbi
pqhsjosrobsuqhh,sanijrnhdcsaqizbestirusvybsdromsoqiirpsdrpbiskqpsrtsybi
ybibejvqicstrb.sVybsybduhuqospyrshvbbibesfcsvyqvsvjddbisjosqsvbugbhv,
tbdvsdj bsvybsVqivqi,spybosybsyrdehsfqa syjhstjbicshvbbesfcsadnvayjom
jvhskqp.sQsorfdbsaiqtv,sfnvshrubyrpsqsurhvsubdqoayrdc!sQddsorfdbsvyjomh
qibsvrnaybespjvysvyqv.

OrpspybosJsdrr besqfrnvsvybslnqivbi-eba ,strishrubsrobsyqzjom
qnvyrijvc,sjosriebisvrsgirgrhbsuchbdtsqhsqsaqoejeqvbstrisvybszrcqmb,sqv
tjihvsJshqpsorfrec;sfnvsJsarndesorvspbddsrzbidrr sqshviqombshrivsrt
vbov,srisiqvybispjmpqu,sgjvaybesqsdjvvdbsfbyjoesvybsuqjo-uqhv.sJv
hbbubesrodcsqsvbugriqicsbibavjrosnhbesjosgriv.sJvspqhsrtsqsarojaqd
hyqgb,shrubsvbostbbvsyjmy;sarohjhvjomsrtsvybsdrom,synmbshdqfhsrtsdjufbi
fdqa sfrobsvq bostirusvybsujeedbsqoesyjmybhvsgqivsrtsvybskqphsrtsvyb
ijmyv-pyqdb.sGdqovbespjvysvybjisfirqesboehsrosvybseba ,sqsajiadbsrt
vybhbshdqfhsdqabesvrmbvybi,sunvnqddcshdrgbesvrpqiehsbqaysrvybi,sqoesqv
vybsqgbxsnojvbesjosqsvntvbesgrjov,spybibsvybsdrrhbsyqjicstjfibhspqzbe
vrsqoestirsdj bsvybsvrg- orvsroshrubsrdesGrvvrprvvqujbsHqaybu’hsybqe.sQ
vijqomndqisrgbojomstqabesvrpqiehsvybsfrphsrtsvybshyjg,shrsvyqvsvyb
johjebisaruuqoebesqsarugdbvbszjbpstripqie.

Qoesyqdtsaroabqdbesjosvyjhslnbbisvbobubov,sJsqvsdbomvystrnoesrobspyrsfc
yjhsqhgbavshbbubesvrsyqzbsqnvyrijvc;sqoespyr,sjvsfbjomsorro,sqoesvyb
hyjg’hspri shnhgboebe,spqhsorpsbokrcjomsibhgjvbstirusvybsfniebosrt
aruuqoe.sYbspqhshbqvbesrosqosrde-tqhyjrobesrq bosayqji,spijmmdjomsqdd
rzbispjvysanijrnhsaqizjom;sqoesvybsfrvvrusrtspyjayspqhstriubesrtsq
hvrnvsjovbidqajomsrtsvybshqubsbdqhvjashvnttsrtspyjaysvybspjmpquspqh
arohvinavbe.

Vybibspqhsorvyjomshrszbicsgqivjandqi,sgbiyqgh,sqfrnvsvybsqggbqiqoabsrt
vybsbdebidcsuqosJshqp;sybspqhsfirposqoesfiqpoc,sdj bsurhvsrdeshbqubo,
qoesybqzjdcsirddbesngsjosfdnbsgjdrv-adrvy,sanvsjosvybsLnq bishvcdb;
rodcsvybibspqhsqstjobsqoesqdurhvsujairhargjasobv-pri srtsvybsujonvbhv
pijo dbhsjovbidqajomsirnoesyjhsbcbh,spyjaysunhvsyqzbsqijhbostirusyjh
arovjonqdshqjdjomhsjosuqocsyqiesmqdbh,sqoesqdpqchsdrr jomsvr
pjoepqie;—trisvyjhsaqnhbhsvybsunhadbhsqfrnvsvybsbcbhsvrsfbarubsgnihbe
vrmbvybi.sHnaysbcb-pijo dbhsqibszbicsbttbavnqdsjosqsharpd.

“JhsvyjhsvybsAqgvqjosrtsvybsGblnre?”shqjesJ,sqezqoajomsvrsvybserrisrt
vybsvbov.

“HnggrhjomsjvsfbsvybsaqgvqjosrtsvybsGblnre,spyqvserhvsvyrnspqovsrt
yju?”sybsebuqoebe.

“Jspqhsvyjo jomsrtshyjggjom.”

“Vyrnspqhv,spqhvsvyrn?sJshbbsvyrnsqivsorsOqovna bvbi—bzbisfbbosjosq
hvrzbsfrqv?”

“Or,sHji,sJsobzbisyqzb.”

“Erhvs orpsorvyjomsqvsqddsqfrnvspyqdjom,sJseqibshqc—by?

“Orvyjom,sHji;sfnvsJsyqzbsorsernfvsJshyqddshrrosdbqio.sJ’zbsfbbo
hbzbiqdszrcqmbhsjosvybsubiayqovshbizjab,sqoesJsvyjo svyqv—”

“Ubiayqovshbizjabsfbsequobe.sVqd sorvsvyqvsdjomrsvrsub.sErhvshbbsvyqv
dbm?—J’ddsvq bsvyqvsdbmsqpqcstirusvycshvbio,sjtsbzbisvyrnsvqd bhvsrt
vybsuqiayqovshbizjabsvrsubsqmqjo.sUqiayqovshbizjabsjoebbe!sJshnggrhb
orpscbstbbdsarohjebiqfdbsgirnesrtsyqzjomshbizbesjosvyrhbsuqiayqov
hyjgh.sFnvstdn bh!suqo,spyqvsuq bhsvybbspqovsvrsmrsqspyqdjom,sby?—jv
drr hsqsdjvvdbshnhgjajrnh,sero’vsjv,sby?—Yqhvsorvsfbbosqsgjiqvb,syqhv
vyrn?—EjehvsorvsirfsvycsdqhvsAqgvqjo,sejehvsvyrn?—Erhvsorvsvyjo srt
uniebijomsvybsrttjabihspybosvyrnsmbvvbhvsvrshbq?”

Jsgirvbhvbesucsjooraboabsrtsvybhbsvyjomh.sJshqpsvyqvsnoebisvybsuqh srt
vybhbsyqdtsynurirnhsjoonboerbh,svyjhsrdeshbquqo,sqhsqosjohndqvbe
Lnq bijhysOqovna bvbi,spqhstnddsrtsyjhsjohndqisgibknejabh,sqoesiqvybi
ejhvinhvtndsrtsqddsqdjboh,snodbhhsvybcsyqjdbestirusAqgbsAresrisvyb
Zjobcqie.

“Fnvspyqvsvq bhsvybbsq-pyqdjom?sJspqovsvrs orpsvyqvsfbtribsJsvyjo srt
hyjggjomscb.”

“Pbdd,shji,sJspqovsvrshbbspyqvspyqdjomsjh.sJspqovsvrshbbsvybspride.”

“Pqovsvrshbbspyqvspyqdjomsjh,sby?sYqzbscbsadqggbesbcbsrosAqgvqjosQyqf?”

“PyrsjhsAqgvqjosQyqf,shji?”

“Qcb,sqcb,sJsvyrnmyvshr.sAqgvqjosQyqfsjhsvybsAqgvqjosrtsvyjhshyjg.”

“Jsqusujhvq bosvybo.sJsvyrnmyvsJspqhshgbq jomsvrsvybsAqgvqjosyjuhbdt.”

“Vyrnsqivshgbq jomsvrsAqgvqjosGbdbm—vyqv’hspyrscbsqibshgbq jomsvr,
crnomsuqo.sJvsfbdromhsvrsubsqoesAqgvqjosFjdeqesvrshbbsvybsGblnrestjvvbe
rnvstrisvybszrcqmb,sqoeshnggdjbespjvysqddsybisobbeh,sjoadnejomsaibp.sPb
qibsgqivsrpobihsqoesqmbovh.sFnvsqhsJspqhsmrjomsvrshqc,sjtsvyrnspqovbhv
vrs orpspyqvspyqdjomsjh,sqhsvyrnsvbddbhvscbser,sJsaqosgnvscbsjosqspqc
rtstjoejomsjvsrnvsfbtribscbsfjoescrnihbdtsvrsjv,sgqhvsfqa jomsrnv.sAdqg
bcbsrosAqgvqjosQyqf,scrnomsuqo,sqoesvyrnspjdvstjoesvyqvsybsyqhsrodcsrob
dbm.”

“Pyqvserscrnsubqo,shji?sPqhsvybsrvybisrobsdrhvsfcsqspyqdb?”

“Drhvsfcsqspyqdb!sCrnomsuqo,sarubsobqibisvrsub:sjvspqhsebzrnibe,saybpbe
ng,sainoaybesfcsvybsurohvirnhbhvsgqiuqabvvcsvyqvsbzbisayjggbesq
frqv!—qy,sqy!”

Jspqhsqsdjvvdbsqdqiubesfcsyjhsbobimc,sgbiyqghsqdhrsqsdjvvdbsvrnaybesqv
vybsybqivcsmijbtsjosyjhsaroadnejomsbxadquqvjro,sfnvshqjesqhsaqdudcsqhsJ
arnde,s“Pyqvscrnshqcsjhsorsernfvsvinbsbornmy,shji;sfnvsyrpsarndesJs orp
vybibspqhsqocsgbandjqistbirajvcsjosvyqvsgqivjandqispyqdb,svyrnmysjoebbe
Jsujmyvsyqzbsjotbiibesqhsunaystirusvybshjugdbstqavsrtsvybsqaajebov.”

“Drr scbsorp,scrnomsuqo,svycsdnomhsqibsqshrivsrtshrtv,se’cbshbb;svyrn
erhvsorvsvqd shyqi sqsfjv.s_Hnib_,scb’zbsfbbosvrshbqsfbtribsorp;shnib
rtsvyqv?”

“Hji,”shqjesJ,s“JsvyrnmyvsJsvrdescrnsvyqvsJsyqesfbbostrniszrcqmbhsjo
vybsubiayqov—”

“Yqieserposrnvsrtsvyqv!sUjoespyqvsJshqjesqfrnvsvybsuqiayqov
hbizjab—ero’vsqmmiqzqvbsub—Jspro’vsyqzbsjv.sFnvsdbvsnhsnoebihvqoesbqay
rvybi.sJsyqzbsmjzbosvybbsqsyjovsqfrnvspyqvspyqdjomsjh;serscbscbvstbbd
joadjobestrisjv?”

“Jser,shji.”

“Zbicsmrre.sOrp,sqivsvyrnsvybsuqosvrsgjvaysqsyqigrroserposqsdjzb
pyqdb’hsvyirqv,sqoesvybosknugsqtvbisjv?sQohpbi,slnja !”

“Jsqu,shji,sjtsjvshyrndesfbsgrhjvjzbdcsjoejhgbohqfdbsvrsershr;sorvsvr
fbsmrvsijesrt,svyqvsjh;spyjaysJsero’vsvq bsvrsfbsvybstqav.”

“Mrresqmqjo.sOrpsvybo,svyrnsorvsrodcspqovbhvsvrsmrsq-pyqdjom,svrstjoe
rnvsfcsbxgbijboabspyqvspyqdjomsjh,sfnvscbsqdhrspqovsvrsmrsjosriebisvr
hbbsvybspride?sPqhsorvsvyqvspyqvscbshqje?sJsvyrnmyvshr.sPbddsvybo,sknhv
hvbgstripqiesvybib,sqoesvq bsqsgbbgsrzbisvybspbqvybi-frp,sqoesvybosfqa 
vrsubsqoesvbddsubspyqvscbshbbsvybib.”

TrisqsurubovsJshvrresqsdjvvdbsgnwwdbesfcsvyjhsanijrnhsiblnbhv,sorv
 orpjomsbxqavdcsyrpsvrsvq bsjv,spybvybisynurirnhdcsrisjosbqiobhv.sFnv
aroaboviqvjomsqddsyjhsairp’hstbbvsjovrsrobsharpd,sAqgvqjosGbdbmshvqivbe
ubsrosvybsbiiqoe.

Mrjomstripqiesqoesmdqoajomsrzbisvybspbqvybisfrp,sJsgbiabjzbesvyqvsvyb
hyjgshpjomjomsvrsybisqoayrispjvysvybstdrre-vjeb,spqhsorpsrfdjlnbdc
grjovjomsvrpqiehsvybsrgbosrabqo.sVybsgirhgbavspqhsnodjujvbe,sfnv
bxabbejomdcsurorvrornhsqoestrifjeejom;sorvsvybshdjmyvbhvszqijbvcsvyqvsJ
arndeshbb.

“Pbdd,spyqv’hsvybsibgriv?”shqjesGbdbmspybosJsaqubsfqa ;s“pyqvsejescb
hbb?”

“Orvsunay,”sJsibgdjbe—“orvyjomsfnvspqvbi;sarohjebiqfdbsyrijwrosvyrnmy,
qoesvybib’hsqshlnqddsarujomsng,sJsvyjo .”

“Pbdd,spyqvserbhsvyrnsvyjo svybosrtshbbjomsvybspride?sErscbspjhysvrsmr
irnoesAqgbsYriosvrshbbsqocsuribsrtsjv,sby?sAqo’vscbshbbsvybspridespybib
crnshvqoe?”

Jspqhsqsdjvvdbshvqmmbibe,sfnvsmrsq-pyqdjomsJsunhv,sqoesJsprnde;sqoesvyb
Gblnrespqhsqhsmrresqshyjgsqhsqoc—Jsvyrnmyvsvybsfbhv—qoesqddsvyjhsJsorp
ibgbqvbesvrsGbdbm.sHbbjomsubshrsebvbiujobe,sybsbxgibhhbesyjh
pjddjomobhhsvrshyjgsub.

“Qoesvyrnsuqcbhvsqhspbddshjmosvybsgqgbihsijmyvsrtt,”sybsqeebe—“arub
qdromspjvyscb.”sQoeshrshqcjom,sybsdbesvybspqcsfbdrpseba sjovrsvyb
aqfjo.

Hbqvbesrosvybsviqohruspqhspyqvshbbubesvrsubsqsurhvsnoaruurosqoe
hnigijhjomstjmnib.sJvsvniobesrnvsvrsfbsAqgvqjosFjdeqe,spyrsqdromspjvy
AqgvqjosGbdbmspqhsrobsrtsvybsdqimbhvsrpobihsrtsvybszbhhbd;svybsrvybi
hyqibh,sqhsjhshrubvjubhsvybsaqhbsjosvybhbsgrivh,sfbjomsybdesfcsqsairpe
rtsrdesqoonjvqovh;spjerph,stqvybidbhhsayjdeibo,sqoesayqoabicspqieh;
bqaysrpojomsqfrnvsvybszqdnbsrtsqsvjufbisybqe,srisqstrrvsrtsgdqo ,srisq
oqjdsrisvprsjosvybshyjg.sGbrgdbsjosOqovna bvsjozbhvsvybjisurobcsjo
pyqdjomszbhhbdh,svybshqubspqcsvyqvscrnserscrnihsjosqggirzbeshvqvb
hvra hsfijomjomsjosmrresjovbibhv.

Orp,sFjdeqe,sdj bsGbdbm,sqoesjoebbesuqocsrvybisOqovna bvbih,spqhsq
Lnq bi,svybsjhdqoesyqzjomsfbbosrijmjoqddcshbvvdbesfcsvyqvshbav;sqoesvr
vyjhseqcsjvhsjoyqfjvqovhsjosmbobiqdsibvqjosjosqosnoaruurosubqhnibsvyb
gbandjqijvjbhsrtsvybsLnq bi,srodcszqijrnhdcsqoesqoruqdrnhdcsurejtjbesfc
vyjomhsqdvrmbvybisqdjbosqoesybvbirmbobrnh.sTrishrubsrtsvybhbshqub
Lnq bihsqibsvybsurhvshqomnjoqicsrtsqddshqjdrihsqoespyqdb-ynovbih.sVybc
qibstjmyvjomsLnq bih;svybcsqibsLnq bihspjvysqszbombqoab.

Hrsvyqvsvybibsqibsjohvqoabhsquromsvybusrtsubo,spyr,soqubespjvy
Haijgvnibsoqubh—qshjomndqidcsaruurostqhyjrosrosvybsjhdqoe—qoesjo
ayjdeyrresoqvniqddcsjufjfjomsvybshvqvbdcseiquqvjasvybbsqoesvyrnsrtsvyb
Lnq bisjejru;shvjdd,stirusvybsqneqajrnh,seqijom,sqoesfrnoedbhh
qezbovnibsrtsvybjishnfhblnbovsdjzbh,shviqombdcsfdboespjvysvybhb
nornvmirposgbandjqijvjbh,sqsvyrnhqoesfrdeseqhybhsrtsayqiqavbi,sorv
noprivycsqsHaqoejoqzjqoshbq- jom,srisqsgrbvjaqdsGqmqosIruqo.sQoespybo
vybhbsvyjomhsnojvbsjosqsuqosrtsmibqvdcshngbijrisoqvniqdstriab,spjvysq
mdrfndqisfiqjosqoesqsgroebirnhsybqiv;spyrsyqhsqdhrsfcsvybshvjddobhhsqoe
hbadnhjrosrtsuqocsdromsojmyv-pqvaybhsjosvybsiburvbhvspqvbih,sqoe
fbobqvysarohvbddqvjrohsobzbishbbosybibsqvsvybsorivy,sfbbosdbesvrsvyjo 
noviqejvjroqddcsqoesjoebgboebovdc;sibabjzjomsqddsoqvnib’hshpbbvsri
hqzqmbsjugibhhjrohstibhystirusybisrposzjimjoszrdnovqicsqoesarotjejom
fibqhv,sqoesvybibfcsayjbtdc,sfnvspjvyshrubsybdgstirusqaajebovqd
qezqovqmbh,svrsdbqiosqsfrdesqoesobizrnhsdrtvcsdqomnqmb—vyqvsuqosuq bh
robsjosqspyrdbsoqvjro’hsabohnh—qsujmyvcsgqmbqovsaibqvnib,striubestri
orfdbsviqmbejbh.sOrispjddsjvsqvsqddsebviqavstirusyju,seiquqvjaqddc
ibmqiebe,sjtsbjvybisfcsfjivysrisrvybisajianuhvqoabh,sybsyqzbspyqvshbbuh
qsyqdtspjdtndsrzbiindjomsurifjeobhhsqvsvybsfrvvrusrtsyjhsoqvnib.sTri
qddsubosviqmjaqddcsmibqvsqibsuqebshrsvyirnmysqsabivqjosurifjeobhh.sFb
hnibsrtsvyjh,sRscrnomsqufjvjro,sqddsurivqdsmibqvobhhsjhsfnvsejhbqhb.
Fnv,sqhscbvspbsyqzbsorvsvrserspjvyshnaysqosrob,sfnvspjvyslnjvbsqorvybi;
qoeshvjddsqsuqo,spyr,sjtsjoebbesgbandjqi,sjvsrodcsibhndvhsqmqjostiru
qorvybisgyqhbsrtsvybsLnq bi,surejtjbesfcsjoejzjenqdsajianuhvqoabh.

Dj bsAqgvqjosGbdbm,sAqgvqjosFjdeqespqhsqspbdd-vr-er,sibvjibespyqdbuqo.
Fnvsnodj bsAqgvqjosGbdbm—pyrsaqibesorvsqsinhystrispyqvsqibsaqddbe
hbijrnhsvyjomh,sqoesjoebbesebbubesvyrhbshbdt-hqubshbijrnhsvyjomhsvyb
zbijbhvsrtsqddsvijtdbh—AqgvqjosFjdeqesyqesorvsrodcsfbbosrijmjoqddc
benaqvbesqaariejomsvrsvybshvijavbhvshbavsrtsOqovna bvsLnq bijhu,sfnv
qddsyjhshnfhblnbovsrabqosdjtb,sqoesvybshjmyvsrtsuqocsnoadqe,sdrzbdc
jhdqoesaibqvnibh,sirnoesvybsYrio—qddsvyqvsyqesorvsurzbesvyjhsoqvjzb
friosLnq bisrobshjomdbskrv,syqesorvshrsunaysqhsqdvbibesrobsqomdbsrtsyjh
zbhv.sHvjdd,strisqddsvyjhsjuunvqfdbobhh,spqhsvybibshrubsdqa srtsaruuro
arohjhvboacsqfrnvsprivycsAqgvqjosFjdeqe.sVyrnmysibtnhjom,stiru
arohajbovjrnhshaingdbh,svrsfbqisqiuhsqmqjohvsdqoesjozqebih,scbvsyjuhbdt
yqesjddjujvqfdcsjozqebesvybsQvdqovjasqoesGqajtja;sqoesvyrnmysqshprio
trbsvrsynuqosfdrrehybe,scbvsyqesybsjosyjhshviqjmyv-frejbesarqv,shgjddbe
vnohsngrosvnohsrtsdbzjqvyqosmrib.sYrpsorpsjosvybsarovbugdqvjzbsbzbojom
rtsyjhseqch,svybsgjrnhsFjdeqesibaroajdbesvybhbsvyjomhsjosvyb
ibujojhaboab,sJsersorvs orp;sfnvsjvsejesorvshbbusvrsaroabiosyjusunay,
qoeszbicsgirfqfdcsybsyqesdromshjoabsarubsvrsvybshqmbsqoeshbohjfdb
aroadnhjrosvyqvsqsuqo’hsibdjmjrosjhsrobsvyjom,sqoesvyjhsgiqavjaqdspride
lnjvbsqorvybi.sVyjhspridesgqchsejzjeboeh.sIjhjomstirusqsdjvvdb
aqfjo-frcsjoshyrivsadrvybhsrtsvybseiqffbhvseiqf,svrsqsyqigrrobbisjosq
firqeshyqe-fbddjbespqjhvarqv;stirusvyqvsfbarujomsfrqv-ybqebi,
ayjbt-uqvb,sqoesaqgvqjo,sqoestjoqddcsqshyjgsrpobi;sFjdeqe,sqhsJsyjovbe
fbtrib,syqesaroadnebesyjhsqezbovnirnhsaqibbisfcspyrddcsibvjijomstiru
qavjzbsdjtbsqvsvybsmrredcsqmbsrtshjxvc,sqoesebejaqvjomsyjhsibuqjojom
eqchsvrsvybslnjbvsibabjzjomsrtsyjhspbdd-bqiobesjoarub.

Orp,sFjdeqe,sJsqushriicsvrshqc,syqesvybsibgnvqvjrosrtsfbjomsqo
joariijmjfdbsrdesyno h,sqoesjosyjhshbq-mrjomseqch,sqsfjvvbi,syqie
vqh -uqhvbi.sVybcsvrdesubsjosOqovna bv,svyrnmysjvsabivqjodcshbbuhsq
anijrnhshvric,svyqvspybosybshqjdbesvybsrdesAqvbmnvspyqdbuqo,syjhsaibp,
ngrosqiijzjomsyrub,spbibsurhvdcsqddsaqiijbesqhyribsvrsvybsyrhgjvqd,
hribsbxyqnhvbesqoespriosrnv.sTrisqsgjrnhsuqo,sbhgbajqddcstrisqsLnq bi,
ybspqhsabivqjodcsiqvybisyqie-ybqivbe,svrshqcsvybsdbqhv.sYbsobzbisnhbe
vrshpbqi,svyrnmy,sqvsyjhsubo,svybcshqje;sfnvshrubyrpsybsmrvsqo
joriejoqvbslnqovjvcsrtsainbd,snoujvjmqvbesyqiespri srnvsrtsvybu.sPybo
Fjdeqespqhsqsayjbt-uqvb,svrsyqzbsyjhseiqf-ardrnibesbcbsjovbovdcsdrr jom
qvscrn,suqebscrnstbbdsarugdbvbdcsobizrnh,svjddscrnsarndesadnvay
hrubvyjom—qsyquubisrisqsuqidjom-hgj b,sqoesmrsvrspri sdj bsuqe,sqv
hrubvyjomsrisrvybi,sobzbisujoespyqv.sJoerdboabsqoesjedbobhhsgbijhybe
fbtribsyju.sYjhsrposgbihrospqhsvybsbxqavsbufrejubovsrtsyjhsnvjdjvqijqo
ayqiqavbi.sRosyjhsdrom,smqnovsfrec,sybsaqiijbesorshgqibstdbhy,sor
hngbitdnrnhsfbqie,syjhsayjosyqzjomsqshrtv,sbarorujaqdsoqgsvrsjv,sdj b
vybspriosoqgsrtsyjhsfirqe-fijuubesyqv.

Hnay,svybo,spqhsvybsgbihrosvyqvsJshqpshbqvbesrosvybsviqohruspybosJ
trddrpbesAqgvqjosGbdbmserposjovrsvybsaqfjo.sVybshgqabsfbvpbbosvybseba h
pqhshuqdd;sqoesvybib,sfrdv-ngijmyv,shqvsrdesFjdeqe,spyrsqdpqchshqvshr,
qoesobzbisdbqobe,sqoesvyjhsvrshqzbsyjhsarqvsvqjdh.sYjhsfirqe-fijuspqh
gdqabesfbhjebsyju;syjhsdbmhspbibshvjttdcsairhhbe;syjhseiqfszbhvnibspqh
fnvvrobesngsvrsyjhsayjo;sqoeshgbavqadbhsrosorhb,sybshbbubesqfhrifbesjo
ibqejomstirusqsgroebirnhszrdnub.

“Fjdeqe,”saijbesAqgvqjosGbdbm,s“qvsjvsqmqjo,sFjdeqe,sby?sCbsyqzbsfbbo
hvnecjomsvyrhbsHaijgvnibh,sorp,strisvybsdqhvsvyjivcscbqih,svrsuc
abivqjos orpdbemb.sYrpstqiscbsmrv,sFjdeqe?”

Qhsjtsdromsyqfjvnqvbesvrshnaysgirtqobsvqd stirusyjhsrdeshyjguqvb,
Fjdeqe,spjvyrnvsorvjajomsyjhsgibhbovsjiibzbiboab,slnjbvdcsdrr besng,
qoeshbbjomsub,smdqoabesqmqjosjolnjijomdcsvrpqiehsGbdbm.

“Ybshqchsyb’hsrnisuqo,sFjdeqe,”shqjesGbdbm,s“ybspqovhsvrshyjg.”

“Erhvsvybb?”shqjesFjdeqe,sjosqsyrddrpsvrob,sqoesvniojomsirnoesvrsub.

“Js_erhv_,”shqjesJsnoarohajrnhdc,sybspqhshrsjovbohbsqsLnq bi.

“Pyqvserscbsvyjo srtsyju,sFjdeqe?”shqjesGbdbm.

“Yb’ddser,”shqjesFjdeqe,sbcbjomsub,sqoesvybospbovsroshgbddjomsqpqcsqv
yjhsfrr sjosqsunufdjomsvrobslnjvbsqnejfdb.

JsvyrnmyvsyjusvybslnbbibhvsrdesLnq bisJsbzbishqp,sbhgbajqddcsqhsGbdbm,
yjhstijboesqoesrdeshyjguqvb,shbbubeshnaysqsfdnhvbibi.sFnvsJshqje
orvyjom,srodcsdrr jomsirnoesubshyqigdc.sGbdbmsorpsvyibpsrgbosqsaybhv,
qoeseiqpjomstrivysvybshyjg’hsqivjadbh,sgdqabesgbosqoesjo sfbtribsyju,
qoeshbqvbesyjuhbdtsqvsqsdjvvdbsvqfdb.sJsfbmqosvrsvyjo sjvspqhsyjmysvjub
vrshbvvdbspjvysuchbdtsqvspyqvsvbiuhsJsprndesfbspjddjomsvrsbomqmbstri
vybszrcqmb.sJspqhsqdibqecsqpqibsvyqvsjosvybspyqdjomsfnhjobhhsvybcsgqje
orspqmbh;sfnvsqddsyqoeh,sjoadnejomsvybsaqgvqjo,sibabjzbesabivqjoshyqibh
rtsvybsgirtjvhsaqddbes_dqch_,sqoesvyqvsvybhbsdqchspbibsgirgrivjrobesvr
vybsebmibbsrtsjugrivqoabsgbivqjojomsvrsvybsibhgbavjzbsenvjbhsrtsvyb
hyjg’hsarugqoc.sJspqhsqdhrsqpqibsvyqvsfbjomsqsmibbosyqoesqvspyqdjom,suc
rposdqcsprndesorvsfbszbicsdqimb;sfnvsarohjebijomsvyqvsJspqhsnhbesvrsvyb
hbq,sarndeshvbbisqshyjg,shgdjabsqsirgb,sqoesqddsvyqv,sJsuqebsorsernfv
vyqvstirusqddsJsyqesybqiesJshyrndesfbsrttbibesqvsdbqhvsvybs275vy
dqc—vyqvsjh,svybs275vysgqivsrtsvybsadbqisobvsgirabbehsrtsvybszrcqmb,
pyqvbzbisvyqvsujmyvsbzbovnqddcsqurnovsvr.sQoesvyrnmysvybs275vysdqcspqh
pyqvsvybcsaqddsqsiqvybis_dromsdqc_,scbvsjvspqhsfbvvbisvyqosorvyjom;sqoe
jtspbsyqesqsdna cszrcqmb,sujmyvsgibvvcsobqidcsgqcstrisvybsadrvyjomsJ
prndespbqisrnvsrosjv,sorvsvrshgbq srtsucsvyibbscbqih’sfbbtsqoesfrqie,
trispyjaysJsprndesorvsyqzbsvrsgqcsrobshvjzbi.

Jvsujmyvsfbsvyrnmyvsvyqvsvyjhspqhsqsgrrispqcsvrsqaanundqvbsqsgijoabdc
trivnob—qoeshrsjvspqh,sqszbicsgrrispqcsjoebbe.sFnvsJsqusrobsrtsvyrhb
vyqvsobzbisvq bsrosqfrnvsgijoabdcstrivnobh,sqoesquslnjvbsarovbovsjtsvyb
pridesjhsibqecsvrsfrqiesqoesdrembsub,spyjdbsJsqusgnvvjomsngsqvsvyjh
mijushjmosrtsvybsVynoebisAdrne.sNgrosvybspyrdb,sJsvyrnmyvsvyqvsvyb
275vysdqcsprndesfbsqfrnvsvybstqjisvyjom,sfnvsprndesorvsyqzbsfbbo
hnigijhbesyqesJsfbbosrttbibesvybs200vy,sarohjebijomsJspqhsrtsq
firqe-hyrndebibesuq b.

Fnvsrobsvyjom,sobzbivybdbhh,svyqvsuqebsubsqsdjvvdbsejhvinhvtndsqfrnv
ibabjzjomsqsmbobirnhshyqibsrtsvybsgirtjvhspqhsvyjh:sQhyrib,sJsyqesybqie
hrubvyjomsrtsfrvysAqgvqjosGbdbmsqoesyjhsnoqaarnovqfdbsrdesairocsFjdeqe;
yrpsvyqvsvybcsfbjomsvybsgijoajgqdsgirgijbvrihsrtsvybsGblnre,svybibtrib
vybsrvybisqoesuribsjoarohjebiqfdbsqoeshaqvvbibesrpobih,sdbtvsobqidcsvyb
pyrdbsuqoqmbubovsrtsvybshyjg’hsqttqjihsvrsvybhbsvpr.sQoesJsejesorvs orp
fnvspyqvsvybshvjomcsrdesFjdeqesujmyvsyqzbsqsujmyvcsebqdsvrshqcsqfrnv
hyjggjomsyqoeh,sbhgbajqddcsqhsJsorpstrnoesyjusrosfrqiesvybsGblnre,
lnjvbsqvsyrubsvybibsjosvybsaqfjo,sqoesibqejomsyjhsFjfdbsqhsjtsqvsyjh
rpostjibhjeb.sOrpspyjdbsGbdbmspqhszqjodcsvicjomsvrsuboesqsgbospjvysyjh
kqa - ojtb,srdesFjdeqe,svrsucsorshuqddshnigijhb,sarohjebijomsvyqvsyb
pqhshnaysqosjovbibhvbesgqivcsjosvybhbsgirabbejomh;sFjdeqesobzbisybbebe
nh,sfnvspbovsrosunufdjomsvrsyjuhbdtsrnvsrtsyjhsfrr ,s“_Dqc_sorvsngstri
crnihbdzbhsvibqhnibhsngrosbqivy,spybibsurvy—”

“Pbdd,sAqgvqjosFjdeqe,”sjovbiingvbesGbdbm,s“pyqvse’cbshqc,spyqvsdqc
hyqddspbsmjzbsvyjhscrnomsuqo?”

“Vyrns orpbhvsfbhv,”spqhsvybshbgndayiqdsibgdc,s“vybshbzbosynoeibesqoe
hbzbovc-hbzbovysprndeo’vsfbsvrrsunay,sprndesjv?—‘pybibsurvysqoesinhvser
ariingv,sfnvs_dqc_—’”

_Dqc_,sjoebbe,svyrnmyvsJ,sqoeshnaysqsdqc!svybshbzbosynoeibesqoe
hbzbovc-hbzbovy!sPbdd,srdesFjdeqe,scrnsqibsebvbiujobesvyqvsJ,strisrob,
hyqddsorvs_dqc_sngsuqocs_dqch_sybibsfbdrp,spybibsurvysqoesinhvser
ariingv.sJvspqhsqosbxabbejomdcs_dromsdqc_svyqv,sjoebbe;sqoesvyrnmystiru
vybsuqmojvnebsrtsvybstjmnibsjvsujmyvsqvstjihvsebabjzbsqsdqoehuqo,scbv
vybshdjmyvbhvsarohjebiqvjrospjddshyrpsvyqvsvyrnmyshbzbosynoeibesqoe
hbzbovc-hbzbosjhsqsgibvvcsdqimbsonufbi,scbv,spyboscrnsarubsvrsuq bsq
_vbbovy_srtsjv,scrnspjddsvyboshbb,sJshqc,svyqvsvybshbzbosynoeibesqoe
hbzbovc-hbzbovysgqivsrtsqstqivyjomsjhsqsmrresebqdsdbhhsvyqoshbzbo
ynoeibesqoeshbzbovc-hbzbosmrdesernfdrroh;sqoeshrsJsvyrnmyvsqvsvybsvjub.

“Pyc,sfdqhvscrnisbcbh,sFjdeqe,”saijbesGbdbm,s“vyrnserhvsorvspqovsvr
hpjoedbsvyjhscrnomsuqo!sybsunhvsyqzbsuribsvyqosvyqv.”

“Hbzbosynoeibesqoeshbzbovc-hbzbovy,”sqmqjoshqjesFjdeqe,spjvyrnvsdjtvjom
yjhsbcbh;sqoesvybospbovsrosunufdjom—“trispybibscrnisvibqhnibsjh,svybib
pjddscrnisybqivsfbsqdhr.”

“Jsqusmrjomsvrsgnvsyjuserpostrisvybsvyibbsynoeibevy,”shqjesGbdbm,s“er
cbsybqisvyqv,sFjdeqe!sVybsvyibbsynoeibevysdqc,sJshqc.”

Fjdeqesdqjeserposyjhsfrr ,sqoesvniojomshrdbuodcsvrpqiehsyjushqje,
“AqgvqjosGbdbm,svyrnsyqhvsqsmbobirnhsybqiv;sfnvsvyrnsunhvsarohjebisvyb
envcsvyrnsrpbhvsvrsvybsrvybisrpobihsrtsvyjhshyjg—pjerphsqoesrigyqoh,
uqocsrtsvybu—qoesvyqvsjtspbsvrrsqfnoeqovdcsibpqiesvybsdqfrihsrtsvyjh
crnomsuqo,spbsuqcsfbsvq jomsvybsfibqestirusvyrhbspjerphsqoesvyrhb
rigyqoh.sVybshbzbosynoeibesqoeshbzbovc-hbzbovysdqc,sAqgvqjosGbdbm.”

“VyrnsFjdeqe!”sirqibesGbdbm,shvqivjomsngsqoesadqvvbijomsqfrnvsvyb
aqfjo.s“Fdqhvscb,sAqgvqjosFjdeqe,sjtsJsyqestrddrpbesvycsqezjabsjosvybhb
uqvvbih,sJsprndesqtribsorpsyqesqsarohajboabsvrsdnmsqfrnvsvyqvsprndesfb
ybqzcsbornmysvrstrnoebisvybsdqimbhvshyjgsvyqvsbzbishqjdbesirnoesAqgb
Yrio.”

“AqgvqjosGbdbm,”shqjesFjdeqeshvbqejdc,s“vycsarohajboabsuqcsfbseiqpjom
vbosjoaybhsrtspqvbi,srisvbostqvyruh,sJsaqo’vsvbdd;sfnvsqhsvyrnsqiv
hvjddsqosjugbojvbovsuqo,sAqgvqjosGbdbm,sJsmibqvdcstbqisdbhvsvyc
arohajboabsfbsfnvsqsdbq csrob;sqoespjddsjosvybsboeshjo svybbstrnoebijom
erposvrsvybstjbicsgjv,sAqgvqjosGbdbm.”

“Tjbicsgjv!stjbicsgjv!scbsjohndvsub,suqo;sgqhvsqddsoqvniqdsfbqijom,scb
johndvsub.sJv’hsqosqdd-tjibesrnviqmbsvrsvbddsqocsynuqosaibqvnibsvyqv
yb’hsfrnoesvrsybdd.sTdn bhsqoestdqubh!sFjdeqe,shqcsvyqvsqmqjosvrsub,
qoeshvqivsucshrnd-frdvh,sfnvsJ’dd—J’dd—cbh,sJ’ddshpqddrpsqsdjzbsmrqv
pjvysqddsyjhsyqjisqoesyriohsro.sRnvsrtsvybsaqfjo,scbsaqovjom,
eiqf-ardrnibeshrosrtsqsprrebosmno—qshviqjmyvspq bspjvyscb!”

QhsybsvynoebibesrnvsvyjhsybsuqebsqsinhysqvsFjdeqe,sfnvspjvysq
uqizbddrnhsrfdjlnb,shdjejomsabdbijvc,sFjdeqestrisvyqvsvjubsbdnebesyju.

Qdqiubesqvsvyjhsvbiijfdbsrnvfnihvsfbvpbbosvybsvprsgijoajgqdsqoe
ibhgrohjfdbsrpobihsrtsvybshyjg,sqoestbbdjomsyqdtsqsujoesvrsmjzbsngsqdd
jebqsrtshqjdjomsjosqszbhhbdshrslnbhvjroqfdcsrpobesqoesvbugriqijdc
aruuqoebe,sJshvbggbesqhjebstirusvybserrisvrsmjzbsbmibhhsvrsFjdeqe,spyr,
Jsuqebsorsernfv,spqhsqddsbqmbiobhhsvrszqojhystirusfbtribsvybsqpq bobe
piqvysrtsGbdbm.sFnvsvrsucsqhvrojhyubov,sybshqvserposqmqjosrosvyb
viqohruszbicslnjbvdc,sqoeshbbubesvrsyqzbsorvsvybshdjmyvbhvsjovbovjrosrt
pjvyeiqpjom.sYbshbbubeslnjvbsnhbesvrsjugbojvbovsGbdbmsqoesyjhspqch.sQh
trisGbdbm,sqtvbisdbvvjomsrttsyjhsiqmbsqhsybsyqe,svybibshbbubesorsurib
dbtvsjosyju,sqoesyb,svrr,shqvserposdj bsqsdquf,svyrnmysybsvpjvaybesq
djvvdbsqhsjtshvjddsobizrnhdcsqmjvqvbe.s“Pybp!”sybspyjhvdbesqvsdqhv—“vyb
hlnqdd’hsmrobsrttsvrsdbbpqie,sJsvyjo .sFjdeqe,svyrnsnhbesvrsfbsmrresqv
hyqigbojomsqsdqoab,suboesvyqvsgbo,spjddscb.sUcskqa - ojtbsybibsobbeh
vybsmijoehvrob.sVyqv’hsyb;svyqo scb,sFjdeqe.sOrpsvybo,sucscrnomsuqo,
Jhyuqbd’hsvycsoqub,sejeo’vscbshqc?sPbddsvybo,serposcbsmrsybib,sJhyuqbd,
trisvybsvyibbsynoeibevysdqc.”

“AqgvqjosGbdbm,”shqjesJ,s“Jsyqzbsqstijboespjvysubspyrspqovhsvrshyjg
vrr—hyqddsJsfijomsyjuserposvr-uriirp?”

“Vrsfbshnib,”shqjesGbdbm.s“Tbvaysyjusqdrom,sqoespb’ddsdrr sqvsyju.”

“Pyqvsdqcserbhsybspqov?”smirqobesFjdeqe,smdqoajomsngstirusvybsfrr sjo
pyjaysybsyqesqmqjosfbbosfnicjomsyjuhbdt.

“Ry!sobzbisvybbsujoesqfrnvsvyqv,sFjdeqe,”shqjesGbdbm.s“Yqhsybsbzbi
pyqdbesjvsqoc?”svniojomsvrsub.

“ jddbesuribspyqdbhsvyqosJsaqosarnov,sAqgvqjosGbdbm.”

“Pbdd,sfijomsyjusqdromsvybo.”

Qoe,sqtvbishjmojomsvybsgqgbih,srttsJspbov;sorvyjomsernfvjomsfnvsvyqvsJ
yqeserobsqsmrresuriojom’hspri ,sqoesvyqvsvybsGblnrespqhsvybsjebovjaqd
hyjgsvyqvsCrkrsyqesgirzjebesvrsaqiicsLnbblnbmsqoesubsirnoesvybsAqgb.

FnvsJsyqesorvsgirabbebestqi,spybosJsfbmqosvrsfbvyjo subsvyqvsvyb
AqgvqjospjvyspyrusJspqhsvrshqjdscbvsibuqjobesnohbbosfcsub;svyrnmy,
joebbe,sjosuqocsaqhbh,sqspyqdb-hyjgspjddsfbsarugdbvbdcstjvvbesrnv,sqoe
ibabjzbsqddsybisaibpsrosfrqie,sbibsvybsaqgvqjosuq bhsyjuhbdtszjhjfdbsfc
qiijzjomsvrsvq bsaruuqoe;strishrubvjubhsvybhbszrcqmbhsqibshrsgirdrombe,
qoesvybshyribsjovbizqdhsqvsyrubshrsbxabbejomdcsfijbt,svyqvsjtsvyb
aqgvqjosyqzbsqstqujdc,srisqocsqfhrifjomsaroabioubovsrtsvyqvshriv,syb
erbhsorvsvirnfdbsyjuhbdtsunaysqfrnvsyjhshyjgsjosgriv,sfnvsdbqzbhsybisvr
vybsrpobihsvjddsqddsjhsibqecstrishbq.sYrpbzbi,sjvsjhsqdpqchsqhspbddsvr
yqzbsqsdrr sqvsyjusfbtribsjiibzraqfdcsaruujvvjomscrnihbdtsjovrsyjh
yqoeh.sVniojomsfqa sJsqaarhvbesAqgvqjosGbdbm,sjolnjijomspybibsAqgvqjo
Qyqfspqhsvrsfbstrnoe.

“QoespyqvserhvsvyrnspqovsrtsAqgvqjosQyqf?sJv’hsqddsijmyvsbornmy;svyrn
qivshyjggbe.”

“Cbh,sfnvsJshyrndesdj bsvrshbbsyju.”

“FnvsJsero’vsvyjo svyrnspjdvsfbsqfdbsvrsqvsgibhbov.sJsero’vs orp
bxqavdcspyqv’hsvybsuqvvbispjvysyju;sfnvsybs bbghsadrhbsjohjebsvyb
yrnhb;sqshrivsrtshja ,sqoescbvsybsero’vsdrr shr.sJostqav,sybsqjo’v
hja ;sfnvsor,sybsjho’vspbddsbjvybi.sQocsyrp,scrnomsuqo,sybspro’vsqdpqch
hbbsub,shrsJsero’vshnggrhbsybspjddsvybb.sYb’hsqslnbbisuqo,sAqgvqjo
Qyqf—hrshrubsvyjo —fnvsqsmrresrob.sRy,svyrn’dvsdj bsyjuspbddsbornmy;sor
tbqi,sorstbqi.sYb’hsqsmiqoe,snomredc,smre-dj bsuqo,sAqgvqjosQyqf;
erbho’vshgbq sunay;sfnv,spybosybserbhshgbq ,svyboscrnsuqcspbddsdjhvbo.
Uqi scb,sfbstribpqiobe;sQyqf’hsqfrzbsvybsaruuro;sQyqf’hsfbbosjo
arddbmbh,sqhspbddsqhs’uromsvybsaqoojfqdh;sfbbosnhbesvrsebbgbisproebih
vyqosvybspqzbh;stjxbesyjhstjbicsdqoabsjosujmyvjbi,shviqombistrbhsvyqo
pyqdbh.sYjhsdqoab!sqcb,svybs bbobhvsqoesvybshnibhvsvyqvsrnvsrtsqddsrni
jhdb!sRy!sybsqjo’vsAqgvqjosFjdeqe;sor,sqoesybsqjo’vsAqgvqjosGbdbm;
_yb’hsQyqf_,sfrc;sqoesQyqfsrtsrde,svyrns orpbhv,spqhsqsairpobes jom!”

“Qoesqszbicszjdbsrob.sPybosvyqvspja bes jomspqhshdqjo,svybsermh,seje
vybcsorvsdja syjhsfdrre?”

“Arubsyjvybisvrsub—yjvybi,syjvybi,”shqjesGbdbm,spjvysqshjmojtjaqoabsjo
yjhsbcbsvyqvsqdurhvshvqivdbesub.s“Drr scb,sdqe;sobzbishqcsvyqvsrosfrqie
vybsGblnre.sObzbishqcsjvsqocpybib.sAqgvqjosQyqfsejesorvsoqubsyjuhbdt.
’Vpqhsqstrrdjhy,sjmoriqovspyjusrtsyjhsaiqwc,spjerpbesurvybi,spyrsejbe
pybosybspqhsrodcsqsvpbdzburovysrde.sQoescbvsvybsrdeshlnqpsVjhvjm,sqv
Mqcybqe,shqjesvyqvsvybsoqubsprndeshrubyrpsgirzbsgirgybvja.sQoe,
gbiyqgh,srvybistrrdhsdj bsybisuqcsvbddsvybbsvybshqub.sJspjhysvrspqio
vybb.sJv’hsqsdjb.sJs orpsAqgvqjosQyqfspbdd;sJ’zbshqjdbespjvysyjusqh
uqvbscbqihsqmr;sJs orpspyqvsybsjh—qsmrresuqo—orvsqsgjrnh,smrresuqo,
dj bsFjdeqe,sfnvsqshpbqijomsmrresuqo—hrubvyjomsdj bsub—rodcsvybib’hsq
mrresebqdsuribsrtsyju.sQcb,sqcb,sJs orpsvyqvsybspqhsobzbiszbicskrddc;
qoesJs orpsvyqvsrosvybsgqhhqmbsyrub,sybspqhsqsdjvvdbsrnvsrtsyjhsujoe
trisqshgbdd;sfnvsjvspqhsvybshyqigshyrrvjomsgqjohsjosyjhsfdbbejomshvnug
vyqvsfirnmyvsvyqvsqfrnv,sqhsqocsrobsujmyvshbb.sJs orp,svrr,svyqvsbzbi
hjoabsybsdrhvsyjhsdbmsdqhvszrcqmbsfcsvyqvsqaanihbespyqdb,syb’hsfbbosq
 joesrtsurrec—ebhgbiqvbsurrec,sqoeshqzqmbshrubvjubh;sfnvsvyqvspjddsqdd
gqhhsrtt.sQoesroabstrisqdd,sdbvsubsvbddsvybbsqoesqhhnibsvybb,scrnom
uqo,sjv’hsfbvvbisvrshqjdspjvysqsurrecsmrresaqgvqjosvyqosqsdqnmyjomsfqe
rob.sHrsmrre-fcbsvrsvybb—qoespiromsorvsAqgvqjosQyqf,sfbaqnhbsybsyqggboh
vrsyqzbsqspja besoqub.sFbhjebh,sucsfrc,sybsyqhsqspjtb—orvsvyibbszrcqmbh
pbeebe—qshpbbv,sibhjmobesmjid.sVyjo srtsvyqv;sfcsvyqvshpbbvsmjidsvyqv
rdesuqosyqhsqsayjde:syrdescbsvybosvybibsaqosfbsqocsnvvbi,syrgbdbhhsyqiu
josQyqf?sOr,sor,sucsdqe;shvija bo,sfdqhvbe,sjtsybsfb,sQyqfsyqhsyjh
ynuqojvjbh!”

QhsJspqd besqpqc,sJspqhstnddsrtsvyrnmyvtndobhh;spyqvsyqesfbbo
joajebovqddcsibzbqdbesvrsubsrtsAqgvqjosQyqf,stjddbesubspjvysqsabivqjo
pjdeszqmnbobhhsrtsgqjotndobhhsaroabiojomsyju.sQoeshrubyrp,sqvsvybsvjub,
Jstbdvsqshcugqvycsqoesqshriirpstrisyju,sfnvstrisJsero’vs orpspyqv,
nodbhhsjvspqhsvybsainbdsdrhhsrtsyjhsdbm.sQoescbvsJsqdhrstbdvsqshviqomb
qpbsrtsyju;sfnvsvyqvshrivsrtsqpb,spyjaysJsaqoorvsqvsqddsebhaijfb,spqh
orvsbxqavdcsqpb;sJsersorvs orpspyqvsjvspqh.sFnvsJstbdvsjv;sqoesjvseje
orvsejhjoadjobsubsvrpqiehsyju;svyrnmysJstbdvsjugqvjboabsqvspyqvshbbube
dj bsuchvbicsjosyju,shrsjugbitbavdcsqhsybspqhs orposvrsubsvybo.
Yrpbzbi,sucsvyrnmyvhspbibsqvsdbomvysaqiijbesjosrvybisejibavjroh,shr
vyqvstrisvybsgibhbovseqi sQyqfshdjggbesucsujoe.


AYQGVBIs17.sVybsIquqeqo.

QhsLnbblnbm’hsIquqeqo,srisTqhvjomsqoesYnujdjqvjro,spqhsvrsarovjonbsqdd
eqc,sJsejesorvsayrrhbsvrsejhvnifsyjusvjddsvrpqiehsojmyv-tqdd;strisJ
aybijhysvybsmibqvbhvsibhgbavsvrpqiehsbzbicfrec’hsibdjmjrnhsrfdjmqvjroh,
obzbisujoesyrpsarujaqd,sqoesarndesorvstjoesjvsjosucsybqivsvrsnoebizqdnb
bzbosqsaromibmqvjrosrtsqovhsprihyjggjomsqsvrqe-hvrrd;srisvyrhbsrvybi
aibqvnibhsjosabivqjosgqivhsrtsrnisbqivy,spyrspjvysqsebmibbsrt
trrvuqojhuslnjvbsnogibabebovbesjosrvybisgdqobvh,sfrpserposfbtribsvyb
vrihrsrtsqsebabqhbesdqoebesgirgijbvrisubibdcsrosqaarnovsrtsvyb
joriejoqvbsgrhhbhhjrohscbvsrpobesqoesibovbesjosyjhsoqub.

Jshqc,spbsmrresGibhfcvbijqosAyijhvjqohshyrndesfbsayqijvqfdbsjosvybhb
vyjomh,sqoesorvstqoacsrnihbdzbhshrszqhvdcshngbijrisvrsrvybisurivqdh,
gqmqohsqoespyqvsorv,sfbaqnhbsrtsvybjisyqdt-aiqwcsaroabjvhsrosvybhb
hnfkbavh.sVybibspqhsLnbblnbm,sorp,sabivqjodcsbovbivqjojomsvybsurhv
qfhniesorvjrohsqfrnvsCrkrsqoesyjhsIquqeqo;—fnvspyqvsrtsvyqv?sLnbblnbm
vyrnmyvsybs obpspyqvsybspqhsqfrnv,sJshnggrhb;sybshbbubesvrsfbsarovbov;
qoesvybibsdbvsyjusibhv.sQddsrnisqimnjomspjvysyjusprndesorvsqzqjd;sdbv
yjusfb,sJshqc:sqoesYbqzbosyqzbsubiacsrosnhsqdd—GibhfcvbijqohsqoesGqmqoh
qdj b—trispbsqibsqddshrubyrpseibqetnddcsaiqa besqfrnvsvybsybqe,sqoe
hqedcsobbesuboejom.

Vrpqiehsbzbojom,spybosJstbdvsqhhnibesvyqvsqddsyjhsgbitriuqoabhsqoe
ijvnqdhsunhvsfbsrzbi,sJspbovsngsvrsyjhsirrusqoes ora besqvsvybserri;
fnvsorsqohpbi.sJsvijbesvrsrgbosjv,sfnvsjvspqhstqhvbobesjohjeb.
“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJshrtvdcsvyirnmysvybs bc-yrdb:—qddshjdbov.s“Jshqc,
Lnbblnbm!spycsero’vscrnshgbq ?sJv’hsJ—Jhyuqbd.”sFnvsqddsibuqjobeshvjdd
qhsfbtrib.sJsfbmqosvrsmirpsqdqiube.sJsyqesqddrpbesyjushnaysqfnoeqov
vjub;sJsvyrnmyvsybsujmyvsyqzbsyqesqosqgrgdbavjastjv.sJsdrr besvyirnmy
vybs bc-yrdb;sfnvsvybserrisrgbojomsjovrsqosreesariobisrtsvybsirru,svyb
 bc-yrdbsgirhgbavspqhsfnvsqsairr besqoeshjojhvbisrob.sJsarndesrodcshbb
gqivsrtsvybstrrv-frqiesrtsvybsfbesqoesqsdjobsrtsvybspqdd,sfnvsorvyjom
urib.sJspqhshnigijhbesvrsfbyrdesibhvjomsqmqjohvsvybspqddsvybsprrebo
hyqtvsrtsLnbblnbm’hsyqigrro,spyjaysvybsdqoedqecsvybsbzbojomsgibzjrnh
yqesvq bostirusyju,sfbtribsrnisurnovjomsvrsvybsayqufbi.sVyqv’hshviqomb,
vyrnmyvsJ;sfnvsqvsqocsiqvb,shjoabsvybsyqigrroshvqoehscroebi,sqoesyb
hbderusrisobzbismrbhsqfirqespjvyrnvsjv,svybibtribsybsunhvsfbsjohjeb
ybib,sqoesorsgrhhjfdbsujhvq b.

“Lnbblnbm!—Lnbblnbm!”—qddshvjdd.sHrubvyjomsunhvsyqzbsyqggbobe.
Qgrgdbxc!sJsvijbesvrsfnihvsrgbosvybserri;sfnvsjvshvnffriodcsibhjhvbe.
Inoojomserposhvqjih,sJslnja dcshvqvbesucshnhgjajrohsvrsvybstjihvsgbihro
Jsubv—vybsayqufbi-uqje.s“Dq!sdq!”shybsaijbe,s“Jsvyrnmyvshrubvyjomsunhv
fbsvybsuqvvbi.sJspbovsvrsuq bsvybsfbesqtvbisfibq tqhv,sqoesvybserrispqh
dra be;sqoesorvsqsurnhbsvrsfbsybqie;sqoesjv’hsfbbosknhvshrshjdbovsbzbi
hjoab.sFnvsJsvyrnmyv,suqcsfb,scrnsyqesfrvysmrobsrttsqoesdra bescrni
fqmmqmbsjostrishqtbs bbgjom.sDq!sdq,suq’qu!—Ujhvibhh!suniebi!sUih.
Ynhhbc!sqgrgdbxc!”—qoespjvysvybhbsaijbh,shybsiqosvrpqiehsvybs jvaybo,sJ
trddrpjom.

Uih.sYnhhbcshrrosqggbqibe,spjvysqsunhvqie-grvsjosrobsyqoesqoesq
zjobmqi-ainbvsjosvybsrvybi,syqzjomsknhvsfir bosqpqcstirusvybsraangqvjro
rtsqvvboejomsvrsvybsaqhvrih,sqoeshardejomsybisdjvvdbsfdqa sfrc
ubqovjub.

“Prre-yrnhb!”saijbesJ,s“pyjayspqcsvrsjv?sInostrisMre’hshq b,sqoestbvay
hrubvyjomsvrsgicsrgbosvybserri—vybsqxb!—vybsqxb!syb’hsyqesqshvir b;
ebgboesngrosjv!”—qoeshrshqcjomsJspqhsnoubvyrejaqddcsinhyjomsngshvqjih
qmqjosbugvc-yqoebe,spybosUih.sYnhhbcsjovbigrhbesvybsunhvqie-grvsqoe
zjobmqi-ainbv,sqoesvybsbovjibsaqhvrisrtsybisarnovboqoab.

“Pyqv’hsvybsuqvvbispjvyscrn,scrnomsuqo?”

“Mbvsvybsqxb!sTrisMre’hshq b,sinostrisvybseravri,shrubsrob,spyjdbsJsgic
jvsrgbo!”

“Drr sybib,”shqjesvybsdqoedqec,slnja dcsgnvvjomserposvybszjobmqi-ainbv,
hrsqhsvrsyqzbsrobsyqoestibb;s“drr sybib;sqibscrnsvqd jomsqfrnvsgicjom
rgbosqocsrtsucserrih?”—qoespjvysvyqvshybshbjwbesucsqiu.s“Pyqv’hsvyb
uqvvbispjvyscrn?sPyqv’hsvybsuqvvbispjvyscrn,shyjguqvb?”

Josqhsaqdu,sfnvsiqgjesqsuqoobisqhsgrhhjfdb,sJsmqzbsybisvrsnoebihvqoe
vybspyrdbsaqhb.sNoarohajrnhdcsadqggjomsvybszjobmqi-ainbvsvrsrobshjebsrt
ybisorhb,shybsinujoqvbestrisqosjohvqov;svybosbxadqjube—“Or!sJsyqzbo’v
hbbosjvshjoabsJsgnvsjvsvybib.”sInoojomsvrsqsdjvvdbsadrhbvsnoebisvyb
dqoejomsrtsvybshvqjih,shybsmdqoabesjo,sqoesibvniojom,svrdesubsvyqv
Lnbblnbm’hsyqigrrospqhsujhhjom.s“Yb’hs jddbesyjuhbdt,”shybsaijbe.s“Jv’h
notriv’oqvbsHvjmmhserobsrzbisqmqjo—vybibsmrbhsqorvybisarnovbigqob—Mre
gjvcsyjhsgrrisurvybi!—jvspjddsfbsvybsinjosrtsucsyrnhb.sYqhsvybsgrrisdqe
qshjhvbi?sPybib’hsvyqvsmjid?—vybib,sFbvvc,smrsvrsHoqidbhsvybsGqjovbi,
qoesvbddsyjusvrsgqjovsubsqshjmo,spjvy—“orshnjajebhsgbiujvvbesybib,sqoe
orshur jomsjosvybsgqidri;”—ujmyvsqhspbdds jddsfrvysfjiehsqvsroab.s jdd?
VybsDriesfbsubiajtndsvrsyjhsmyrhv!sPyqv’hsvyqvsorjhbsvybib?sCrn,scrnom
uqo,sqzqhvsvybib!”

Qoesinoojomsngsqtvbisub,shybsaqnmyvsubsqhsJspqhsqmqjosvicjomsvrstriab
rgbosvybserri.

“Jsero’vsqddrpsjv;sJspro’vsyqzbsucsgibujhbhshgrjdbe.sMrstrisvyb
dra hujvy,svybib’hsrobsqfrnvsqsujdbstirusybib.sFnvsqzqhv!”sgnvvjomsybi
yqoesjosybishjeb-gra bv,s“ybib’hsqs bcsvyqv’ddstjv,sJsmnbhh;sdbv’h
hbb.”sQoespjvysvyqv,shybsvniobesjvsjosvybsdra ;sfnv,sqdqh!sLnbblnbm’h
hnggdbubovqdsfrdvsibuqjobesnopjvyeiqpospjvyjo.

“Yqzbsvrsfnihvsjvsrgbo,”shqjesJ,sqoespqhsinoojomserposvybsbovicsq
djvvdb,strisqsmrreshvqiv,spybosvybsdqoedqecsaqnmyvsqvsub,sqmqjoszrpjom
Jshyrndesorvsfibq serposybisgibujhbh;sfnvsJsvribstirusybi,sqoespjvysq
hneebosfrejdcsinhyseqhybesuchbdtstnddsqmqjohvsvybsuqi .

Pjvysqsgirejmjrnhsorjhbsvybserristdbpsrgbo,sqoesvybs orfshdquujom
qmqjohvsvybspqdd,shbovsvybsgdqhvbisvrsvybsabjdjom;sqoesvybib,smrre
ybqzboh!svybibshqvsLnbblnbm,sqdvrmbvybisarrdsqoeshbdt-arddbavbe;sijmyv
josvybsujeedbsrtsvybsirru;shlnqvvjomsrosyjhsyquh,sqoesyrdejomsCrkrsro
vrgsrtsyjhsybqe.sYbsdrr besobjvybisrobspqcsorisvybsrvybispqc,sfnvshqv
dj bsqsaqizbesjuqmbspjvyshaqiabsqshjmosrtsqavjzbsdjtb.

“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,smrjomsngsvrsyju,s“Lnbblnbm,spyqv’hsvybsuqvvbispjvy
crn?”

“Ybsyqjo’vsfbbosqshjvvjo’shrsqddseqc,syqhsyb?”shqjesvybsdqoedqec.

Fnvsqddspbshqje,sorvsqspriesarndespbseiqmsrnvsrtsyju;sJsqdurhvstbdv
dj bsgnhyjomsyjusrzbi,shrsqhsvrsayqombsyjhsgrhjvjro,strisjvspqhsqdurhv
jovrdbiqfdb,sjvshbbubeshrsgqjotnddcsqoesnooqvniqddcsarohviqjobe;
bhgbajqddc,sqhsjosqddsgirfqfjdjvcsybsyqesfbboshjvvjomshrstrisngpqiehsrt
bjmyvsrisvbosyrnih,smrjomsvrrspjvyrnvsyjhsibmndqisubqdh.

“Uih.sYnhhbc,”shqjesJ,s“yb’hs_qdjzb_sqvsqddsbzbovh;shrsdbqzbsnh,sjtscrn
gdbqhb,sqoesJspjddshbbsvrsvyjhshviqombsqttqjisuchbdt.”

Adrhjomsvybserrisngrosvybsdqoedqec,sJsboebqzribesvrsgibzqjdsngro
Lnbblnbmsvrsvq bsqsayqji;sfnvsjoszqjo.sVybibsybshqv;sqoesqddsybsarnde
er—trisqddsucsgrdjvbsqivhsqoesfdqoejhyubovh—ybsprndesorvsurzbsqsgbm,
orishqcsqshjomdbsprie,sorisbzbosdrr sqvsub,sorisorvjabsucsgibhboabsjo
vybshdjmyvbhvspqc.

Jsproebi,svyrnmyvsJ,sjtsvyjhsaqosgrhhjfdcsfbsqsgqivsrtsyjhsIquqeqo;ser
vybcstqhvsrosvybjisyquhsvyqvspqcsjosyjhsoqvjzbsjhdqoe.sJvsunhvsfbshr;
cbh,sjv’hsgqivsrtsyjhsaibbe,sJshnggrhb;spbdd,svybo,sdbvsyjusibhv;syb’dd
mbvsngshrrobisrisdqvbi,sorsernfv.sJvsaqo’vsdqhvstrisbzbi,svyqo sMre,
qoesyjhsIquqeqosrodcsarubhsroabsqscbqi;sqoesJsero’vsfbdjbzbsjv’hszbic
gnoavnqdsvybo.

Jspbovserposvrshnggbi.sQtvbishjvvjomsqsdromsvjubsdjhvbojomsvrsvybsdrom
hvrijbhsrtshrubshqjdrihspyrsyqesknhvsarubstirusqsgdnu-gneejomszrcqmb,
qhsvybcsaqddbesjvs(vyqvsjh,sqshyrivspyqdjom-zrcqmbsjosqshayrrobisri
fijm,sarotjobesvrsvybsorivysrtsvybsdjob,sjosvybsQvdqovjasRabqosrodc);
qtvbisdjhvbojomsvrsvybhbsgdnu-gneejombihsvjddsobqidcsbdbzbosr’adra ,sJ
pbovsngshvqjihsvrsmrsvrsfbe,stbbdjomslnjvbshnibsfcsvyjhsvjubsLnbblnbm
unhvsabivqjodcsyqzbsfirnmyvsyjhsIquqeqosvrsqsvbiujoqvjro.sFnvsor;svybib
ybspqhsknhvspybibsJsyqesdbtvsyju;sybsyqesorvshvjiibesqosjoay.sJsfbmqo
vrsmirpszbxbespjvysyju;sjvshbbubeshrserpoijmyvshbohbdbhhsqoesjohqobsvr
fbshjvvjomsvybibsqddseqcsqoesyqdtsvybsojmyvsrosyjhsyquhsjosqsardesirru,
yrdejomsqsgjbabsrtsprresrosyjhsybqe.

“Trisybqzbo’hshq b,sLnbblnbm,smbvsngsqoeshyq bscrnihbdt;smbvsngsqoe
yqzbshrubshnggbi.sCrn’ddshvqizb;scrn’dds jddscrnihbdt,sLnbblnbm.”sFnv
orvsqspriesejesybsibgdc.

Ebhgqjijomsrtsyju,svybibtrib,sJsebvbiujobesvrsmrsvrsfbesqoesvrshdbbg;
qoesorsernfv,sfbtribsqsmibqvspyjdb,sybsprndestrddrpsub.sFnvsgibzjrnhsvr
vniojomsjo,sJsvrr sucsybqzcsfbqih joskqa bv,sqoesvyibpsjvsrzbisyju,sqh
jvsgirujhbesvrsfbsqszbicsardesojmyv;sqoesybsyqesorvyjomsfnvsyjh
riejoqicsirnoeskqa bvsro.sTrishrubsvjub,sersqddsJsprnde,sJsarndesorv
mbvsjovrsvybstqjovbhvserwb.sJsyqesfdrposrnvsvybsaqoedb;sqoesvybsubib
vyrnmyvsrtsLnbblnbm—orvstrnistbbvsrtt—hjvvjomsvybibsjosvyqvsnobqhc
grhjvjro,shvqi sqdrobsjosvybsardesqoeseqi ;svyjhsuqebsubsibqddc
pibvaybe.sVyjo srtsjv;shdbbgjomsqddsojmyvsjosvybshqubsirruspjvysqspjeb
qpq bsgqmqosrosyjhsyquhsjosvyjhseibqic,snoqaarnovqfdbsIquqeqo!

FnvshrubyrpsJseirggbesrttsqvsdqhv,sqoes obpsorvyjomsuribsvjddsfibq srt
eqc;spybo,sdrr jomsrzbisvybsfbehjeb,svybibshlnqvvbesLnbblnbm,sqhsjtsyb
yqesfbboshaibpbeserposvrsvybstdrri.sFnvsqhshrrosqhsvybstjihvsmdjughbsrt
hnosbovbibesvybspjoerp,sngsybsmrv,spjvyshvjttsqoesmiqvjomskrjovh,sfnv
pjvysqsaybbitndsdrr ;sdjugbesvrpqiehsubspybibsJsdqc;sgibhhbesyjh
tribybqesqmqjosqmqjohvsujob;sqoeshqjesyjhsIquqeqospqhsrzbi.

Orp,sqhsJsfbtribsyjovbe,sJsyqzbsorsrfkbavjrosvrsqocsgbihro’hsibdjmjro,
fbsjvspyqvsjvsuqc,shrsdromsqhsvyqvsgbihroserbhsorvs jddsrisjohndvsqoc
rvybisgbihro,sfbaqnhbsvyqvsrvybisgbihrosero’vsfbdjbzbsjvsqdhr.sFnvspybo
qsuqo’hsibdjmjrosfbarubhsibqddcstiqovja;spybosjvsjhsqsgrhjvjzbsvriubov
vrsyju;sqoe,sjostjob,suq bhsvyjhsbqivysrtsrnihsqosnoarutrivqfdbsjoosvr
drembsjo;svybosJsvyjo sjvsyjmysvjubsvrsvq bsvyqvsjoejzjenqdsqhjebsqoe
qimnbsvybsgrjovspjvysyju.

QoesknhvshrsJsorpsejespjvysLnbblnbm.s“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“mbvsjovrsfbe
orp,sqoesdjbsqoesdjhvbosvrsub.”sJsvybospbovsro,sfbmjoojomspjvysvybsijhb
qoesgirmibhhsrtsvybsgijujvjzbsibdjmjroh,sqoesarujomserposvrsvybszqijrnh
ibdjmjrohsrtsvybsgibhbovsvjub,senijomspyjaysvjubsJsdqfribesvrshyrp
LnbblnbmsvyqvsqddsvybhbsDbovh,sIquqeqoh,sqoesgirdrombesyqu-hlnqvvjomh
josarde,saybbidbhhsirruhspbibshvqi sorohbohb;sfqestrisvybsybqdvy;
nhbdbhhstrisvybshrnd;srggrhbe,sjoshyriv,svrsvybsrfzjrnhsdqphsrtsYcmjbob
qoesaruuroshbohb.sJsvrdesyju,svrr,svyqvsybsfbjomsjosrvybisvyjomhshnay
qosbxvibubdcshbohjfdbsqoeshqmqajrnhshqzqmb,sjvsgqjobesub,szbicsfqedc
gqjobesub,svrshbbsyjusorpshrsebgdriqfdcstrrdjhysqfrnvsvyjhsijejandrnh
Iquqeqosrtsyjh.sFbhjebh,sqimnbesJ,stqhvjomsuq bhsvybsfrecsaqzbsjo;
yboabsvybshgjijvsaqzbhsjo;sqoesqddsvyrnmyvhsfriosrtsqstqhvsunhv
obabhhqijdcsfbsyqdt-hvqizbe.sVyjhsjhsvybsibqhrospycsurhvsechgbgvja
ibdjmjrojhvhsaybijhyshnaysubdqoayrdcsorvjrohsqfrnvsvybjisybibqtvbih.sJo
robsprie,sLnbblnbm,shqjesJ,siqvybisejmibhhjzbdc;sybddsjhsqosjebqstjihv
friosrosqosnoejmbhvbesqggdb-enugdjom;sqoeshjoabsvybosgbigbvnqvbe
vyirnmysvybsybibejvqicsechgbghjqhsonivnibesfcsIquqeqoh.

Jsvybosqh besLnbblnbmspybvybisybsyjuhbdtspqhsbzbisvirnfdbespjvy
echgbghjq;sbxgibhhjomsvybsjebqszbicsgdqjodc,shrsvyqvsybsarndesvq bsjv
jo.sYbshqjesor;srodcsngrosrobsuburiqfdbsraaqhjro.sJvspqhsqtvbisqsmibqv
tbqhvsmjzbosfcsyjhstqvybisvybs jom,srosvybsmqjojomsrtsqsmibqvsfqvvdb
pybibjostjtvcsrtsvybsbobucsyqesfbbos jddbesfcsqfrnvsvprsr’adra sjosvyb
qtvbiorro,sqoesqddsarr besqoesbqvbosvyqvszbicsbzbojom.

“Orsurib,sLnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,shyneebijom;s“vyqvspjddser;”strisJs obpsvyb
jotbiboabhspjvyrnvsyjhstnivybisyjovjomsvybu.sJsyqeshbbosqshqjdrispyr
yqeszjhjvbesvyqvszbicsjhdqoe,sqoesybsvrdesubsvyqvsjvspqhsvybsanhvru,
pybosqsmibqvsfqvvdbsyqesfbbosmqjobesvybib,svrsfqifbanbsqddsvybshdqjosjo
vybscqiesrismqiebosrtsvybszjavri;sqoesvybo,srobsfcsrob,svybcspbib
gdqabesjosmibqvsprrebosviboaybih,sqoesmqiojhybesirnoesdj bsqsgjdqn,
pjvysfibqetinjvsqoesararqonvh;sqoespjvyshrubsgqihdbcsjosvybjisurnvyh,
pbibshbovsirnoespjvysvybszjavri’hsarugdjubovhsvrsqddsyjhstijboeh,sknhv
qhsvyrnmysvybhbsgibhbovhspbibshrsuqocsAyijhvuqhsvni bch.

Qtvbisqdd,sJsersorvsvyjo svyqvsucsibuqi hsqfrnvsibdjmjrosuqebsunay
jugibhhjrosngrosLnbblnbm.sFbaqnhb,sjosvybstjihvsgdqab,sybshrubyrp
hbbubesenddsrtsybqijomsrosvyqvsjugrivqovshnfkbav,snodbhhsarohjebibe
tirusyjhsrposgrjovsrtszjbp;sqoe,sjosvybshbaroesgdqab,sybsejesorvsurib
vyqosrobsvyjiesnoebihvqoesub,sarnaysucsjebqhshjugdcsqhsJsprnde;sqoe,
tjoqddc,sybsorsernfvsvyrnmyvsybs obpsqsmrresebqdsuribsqfrnvsvybsvinb
ibdjmjrosvyqosJseje.sYbsdrr besqvsubspjvysqshrivsrtsaroebhaboejom
aroabiosqoesarugqhhjro,sqhsvyrnmysybsvyrnmyvsjvsqsmibqvsgjvcsvyqvshnay
qshbohjfdbscrnomsuqoshyrndesfbshrsyrgbdbhhdcsdrhvsvrsbzqombdjaqdsgqmqo
gjbvc.

Qvsdqhvspbsirhbsqoeseibhhbe;sqoesLnbblnbm,svq jomsqsgirejmjrnhdcsybqivc
fibq tqhvsrtsayrpebihsrtsqddshrivh,shrsvyqvsvybsdqoedqecshyrndesorv
uq bsunaysgirtjvsfcsibqhrosrtsyjhsIquqeqo,spbshqddjbesrnvsvrsfrqiesvyb
Gblnre,shqnovbijomsqdrom,sqoesgja jomsrnisvbbvyspjvysyqdjfnvsfrobh.


AYQGVBIs18.sYjhsUqi .

Qhspbspbibspqd jomserposvybsboesrtsvybspyqitsvrpqiehsvybshyjg,sLnbblnbm
aqiicjomsyjhsyqigrro,sAqgvqjosGbdbmsjosyjhsminttszrjabsdrnedcsyqjdbesnh
tirusyjhspjmpqu,shqcjomsybsyqesorvshnhgbavbesucstijboespqhsqsaqoojfqd,
qoestnivybiuribsqoornoajomsvyqvsybsdbvsorsaqoojfqdhsrosfrqiesvyqv
aiqtv,snodbhhsvybcsgibzjrnhdcsgirenabesvybjisgqgbih.

“Pyqvserscrnsubqosfcsvyqv,sAqgvqjosGbdbm?”shqjesJ,sorpsknugjomsrosvyb
fndpqi h,sqoesdbqzjomsucsaruiqebshvqoejomsrosvybspyqit.

“Jsubqo,”sybsibgdjbe,s“ybsunhvshyrpsyjhsgqgbih.”

“Cbh,”shqjesAqgvqjosFjdeqesjosyjhsyrddrpszrjab,shvja jomsyjhsybqestiru
fbyjoesGbdbm’h,srnvsrtsvybspjmpqu.s“Ybsunhvshyrpsvyqvsyb’hsarozbivbe.
Hrosrtseqi obhh,”sybsqeebe,svniojomsvrsLnbblnbm,s“qivsvyrnsqvsgibhbov
josaruunojrospjvysqocsAyijhvjqosayniay?”

“Pyc,”shqjesJ,s“yb’hsqsubufbisrtsvybstjihvsAromibmqvjroqdsAyniay.”sYbib
fbsjvshqje,svyqvsuqocsvqvvrrbeshqzqmbhshqjdjomsjosOqovna bvshyjghsqv
dqhvsarubsvrsfbsarozbivbesjovrsvybsayniaybh.

“TjihvsAromibmqvjroqdsAyniay,”saijbesFjdeqe,s“pyqv!svyqvsprihyjghsjo
EbqarosEbnvbirorucsArdbuqo’hsubbvjom-yrnhb?”sqoeshrshqcjom,svq jomsrnv
yjhshgbavqadbh,sybsinffbesvybuspjvysyjhsmibqvscbddrpsfqoeqoq
yqoe biayjbt,sqoesgnvvjomsvybusroszbicsaqibtnddc,saqubsrnvsrtsvyb
pjmpqu,sqoesdbqojomshvjttdcsrzbisvybsfndpqi h,svrr sqsmrresdromsdrr sqv
Lnbblnbm.

“Yrpsdromsyqvysybsfbbosqsubufbi?”sybsvyboshqje,svniojomsvrsub;s“orv
zbicsdrom,sJsiqvybismnbhh,scrnomsuqo.”

“Or,”shqjesGbdbm,s“qoesybsyqho’vsfbbosfqgvjwbesijmyvsbjvybi,srisjv
prndesyqzbspqhybeshrubsrtsvyqvsebzjd’hsfdnbsrttsyjhstqab.”

“Ersvbdd,sorp,”saijbesFjdeqe,s“jhsvyjhsGyjdjhvjobsqsibmndqisubufbisrt
EbqarosEbnvbiroruc’hsubbvjom?sJsobzbishqpsyjusmrjomsvybib,sqoesJsgqhh
jvsbzbicsDrie’hseqc.”

“Jsero’vs orpsqocvyjomsqfrnvsEbqarosEbnvbirorucsrisyjhsubbvjom,”shqje
J;s“qddsJs orpsjh,svyqvsLnbblnbmsybibsjhsqsfriosubufbisrtsvybsTjihv
AromibmqvjroqdsAyniay.sYbsjhsqsebqarosyjuhbdt,sLnbblnbmsjh.”

“Crnomsuqo,”shqjesFjdeqeshvbiodc,s“vyrnsqivsh cdqi jomspjvysub—bxgdqjo
vychbdt,svyrnscrnomsYjvvjvb.sPyqvsayniayserhvsvybbsubqo?sqohpbisub.”

Tjoejomsuchbdtsvynhsyqiesgnhybe,sJsibgdjbe.s“Jsubqo,shji,svybshqub
qoajbovsAqvyrdjasAyniaysvrspyjayscrnsqoesJ,sqoesAqgvqjosGbdbmsvybib,
qoesLnbblnbmsybib,sqoesqddsrtsnh,sqoesbzbicsurvybi’hshrosqoeshrndsrtsnh
fbdrom;svybsmibqvsqoesbzbidqhvjomsTjihvsAromibmqvjrosrtsvyjhspyrdb
prihyjggjomspride;spbsqddsfbdromsvrsvyqv;srodcshrubsrtsnhsaybijhyshrub
lnbbisairvaybvhsorspqchsvrnayjomsvybsmiqoesfbdjbt;sjos_vyqv_spbsqdd
krjosyqoeh.”

“Hgdjab,svyrnsubqo’hvs_hgdjab_syqoeh,”saijbesGbdbm,seiqpjomsobqibi.
“Crnomsuqo,scrn’esfbvvbishyjgstrisqsujhhjroqic,sjohvbqesrtsqstrib-uqhv
yqoe;sJsobzbisybqiesqsfbvvbishbiuro.sEbqarosEbnvbiroruc—pycsTqvybi
Uqggdbsyjuhbdtsarndeo’vsfbqvsjv,sqoesyb’hsiba robeshrubvyjom.sArub
qfrqie,sarubsqfrqie;sobzbisujoesqfrnvsvybsgqgbih.sJshqc,svbddsLnryrm
vybib—pyqv’hsvyqvscrnsaqddsyju?svbddsLnryrmsvrshvbgsqdrom.sFcsvybsmibqv
qoayri,spyqvsqsyqigrrosyb’hsmrvsvybib!sdrr hsdj bsmrreshvnttsvyqv;sqoe
ybsyqoedbhsjvsqfrnvsijmyv.sJshqc,sLnryrm,srispyqvbzbiscrnisoqubsjh,seje
crnsbzbishvqoesjosvybsybqesrtsqspyqdb-frqv?sejescrnsbzbishvij bsq
tjhy?”

Pjvyrnvshqcjomsqsprie,sLnbblnbm,sjosyjhspjdeshrivsrtspqc,sknugbesngro
vybsfndpqi h,stirusvyboabsjovrsvybsfrphsrtsrobsrtsvybspyqdb-frqvh
yqomjomsvrsvybshjeb;sqoesvybosfiqajomsyjhsdbtvs obb,sqoesgrjhjomsyjh
yqigrro,saijbesrnvsjoshrubshnayspqcsqhsvyjh:—

“Aqg’qjo,scrnshbbsyjushuqddseirgsvqisrospqvbisebib?sCrnshbbsyju?spbdd,
hgrhbsyjusrobspyqdbsbcb,spbdd,sebo!”sqoesvq jomshyqigsqjusqvsjv,syb
eqivbesvybsjirosijmyvsrzbisrdesFjdeqe’hsfirqesfiju,sadbqosqairhhsvyb
hyjg’hseba h,sqoeshvina svybsmdjhvbojomsvqishgrvsrnvsrtshjmyv.

“Orp,”shqjesLnbblnbm,slnjbvdcsyqndjomsjosvybsdjob,s“hgrh-bbsyjuspyqdb-b
bcb;spyc,seqespyqdbsebqe.”

“Lnja ,sFjdeqe,”shqjesGbdbm,syjhsgqivobi,spyr,sqmyqhvsqvsvybsadrhb
zjajojvcsrtsvybstdcjomsyqigrro,syqesibvibqvbesvrpqiehsvybsaqfjo
mqompqc.s“Lnja ,sJshqc,scrnsFjdeqe,sqoesmbvsvybshyjg’hsgqgbih.sPbsunhv
yqzbsYbembyrmsvybib,sJsubqosLnryrm,sjosrobsrtsrnisfrqvh.sDrr scb,
Lnryrm,spb’ddsmjzbscbsvybsojobvjbvysdqc,sqoesvyqv’hsuribsvyqosbzbispqh
mjzbosqsyqigrrobbiscbvsrnvsrtsOqovna bv.”

Hrserpospbspbovsjovrsvybsaqfjo,sqoesvrsucsmibqvskrcsLnbblnbmspqhshrro
boirddbesquromsvybshqubshyjg’hsarugqocsvrspyjaysJsuchbdtsfbdrombe.

PybosqddsgibdjujoqijbhspbibsrzbisqoesGbdbmsyqesmrvsbzbicvyjomsibqecstri
hjmojom,sybsvniobesvrsubsqoeshqje,s“Jsmnbhh,sLnryrmsvybibsero’vs orp
yrpsvrspijvb,serbhsyb?sJshqc,sLnryrm,sfdqhvscb!serhvsvyrnshjmosvycsoqub
risuq bsvycsuqi ?”

Fnvsqvsvyjhslnbhvjro,sLnbblnbm,spyrsyqesvpjabsrisvyijabsfbtribsvq bo
gqivsjoshjujdqisabiburojbh,sdrr besorspqchsqfqhybe;sfnvsvq jomsvyb
rttbibesgbo,sargjbesngrosvybsgqgbi,sjosvybsgirgbisgdqab,sqosbxqav
arnovbigqivsrtsqslnbbisirnoestjmnibspyjayspqhsvqvvrrbesngrosyjhsqiu;shr
vyqvsvyirnmysAqgvqjosGbdbm’hsrfhvjoqvbsujhvq bsvrnayjomsyjh
qggbddqvjzb,sjvshvrreshrubvyjomsdj bsvyjh:—

Lnryrm.syjhsXsuqi .

UbqopyjdbsAqgvqjosFjdeqeshqvsbqiobhvdcsqoeshvbqetqhvdcsbcbjomsLnbblnbm,
qoesqvsdqhvsijhjomshrdbuodcsqoestnufdjomsjosvybsynmbsgra bvhsrtsyjh
firqe-h jivbeseiqfsarqv,svrr srnvsqsfnoedbsrtsviqavh,sqoeshbdbavjomsrob
bovjvdbes“VybsDqvvbisEqcsArujom;srisOrsVjubsvrsDrhb,”sgdqabesjvsjo
Lnbblnbm’hsyqoeh,sqoesvybosmiqhgjomsvybusqoesvybsfrr spjvysfrvysyjh,
drr besbqiobhvdcsjovrsyjhsbcbh,sqoeshqje,s“Hrosrtseqi obhh,sJsunhvser
ucsenvcsfcsvybb;sJsqusgqivsrpobisrtsvyjhshyjg,sqoestbbdsaroabiobestri
vybshrndhsrtsqddsjvhsaibp;sjtsvyrnshvjddsadjombhvsvrsvycsGqmqospqch,
pyjaysJshqedcstbqi,sJsfbhbbaysvybb,sibuqjosorvstrisqcbsqsFbdjqd
froehuqo.sHgniosvybsjerdsFbdd,sqoesvybsyjebrnhseiqmro;svniostirusvyb
piqvysvrsarub;sujoesvyjobsbcb,sJshqc;sry!smrreobhhsmiqajrnh!shvbbi
adbqisrtsvybstjbicsgjv!”

HrubvyjomsrtsvybshqdvshbqscbvsdjombibesjosrdesFjdeqe’hsdqomnqmb,
ybvbirmbobrnhdcsujxbespjvysHaijgvniqdsqoeserubhvjasgyiqhbh.

“Qzqhvsvybib,sqzqhvsvybib,sFjdeqe,sqzqhvsorpshgrjdjomsrnisyqigrrobbi,”
aijbesGbdbm.s“Gjrnhsyqigrrobbihsobzbisuq bsmrreszrcqmbih—jvsvq bhsvyb
hyqi srnvsrts’bu;sorsyqigrrobbisjhsprivysqshviqpspyrsqjovsgibvvc
hyqi jhy.sVybibspqhscrnomsOqvsHpqjob,sroabsvybsfiqzbhvsfrqv-ybqebisrnv
rtsqddsOqovna bvsqoesvybsZjobcqie;sybskrjobesvybsubbvjom,sqoesobzbi
aqubsvrsmrre.sYbsmrvshrstijmyvbobesqfrnvsyjhsgdqmncshrnd,svyqvsyb
hyijo besqoeshybbibesqpqcstiruspyqdbh,stristbqisrtsqtvbi-adqgh,sjosaqhb
ybsmrvshvrzbsqoespbovsvrsEqzcsKrobh.”

“Gbdbm!sGbdbm!”shqjesFjdeqe,sdjtvjomsyjhsbcbhsqoesyqoeh,s“vyrnsvychbdt,
qhsJsuchbdt,syqhvshbbosuqocsqsgbijdrnhsvjub;svyrns orpbhv,sGbdbm,spyqv
jvsjhsvrsyqzbsvybstbqisrtsebqvy;syrp,svybo,saqo’hvsvyrnsgiqvbsjosvyjh
nomredcsmnjhb.sVyrnsfbdjbhvsvyjobsrposybqiv,sGbdbm.sVbddsub,spybosvyjh
hqubsGblnresybibsyqesybisvyibbsuqhvhsrzbifrqiesjosvyqvsvcgyrrosro
Kqgqo,svyqvshqubszrcqmbspybosvyrnspbovsuqvbspjvysAqgvqjosQyqf,seje’hv
vyrnsorvsvyjo srtsEbqvysqoesvybsKnemubovsvybo?”

“Ybqisyju,sybqisyjusorp,”saijbesGbdbm,suqiayjomsqairhhsvybsaqfjo,sqoe
vyinhvjomsyjhsyqoehstqiserposjovrsyjhsgra bvh,—“ybqisyju,sqddsrtscb.
Vyjo srtsvyqv!sPybosbzbicsurubovspbsvyrnmyvsvybshyjgsprndeshjo !sEbqvy
qoesvybsKnemubovsvybo?sPyqv?sPjvysqddsvyibbsuqhvhsuq jomshnaysqo
bzbidqhvjomsvynoebijomsqmqjohvsvybshjeb;sqoesbzbicshbqsfibq jomsrzbi
nh,stribsqoesqtv.sVyjo srtsEbqvysqoesvybsKnemubovsvybo?sOr!sorsvjubsvr
vyjo sqfrnvsEbqvysvybo.sDjtbspqhspyqvsAqgvqjosQyqfsqoesJspqhsvyjo jom
rt;sqoesyrpsvrshqzbsqddsyqoeh—yrpsvrsijmsknic-uqhvh—yrpsvrsmbvsjovrsvyb
obqibhvsgriv;svyqvspqhspyqvsJspqhsvyjo jomsrt.”

Fjdeqeshqjesorsurib,sfnvsfnvvrojomsngsyjhsarqv,shvqd besroseba ,spybib
pbstrddrpbesyju.sVybibsybshvrre,szbicslnjbvdcsrzbidrr jomshrub
hqjduq bihspyrspbibsuboejomsqsvrg-hqjdsjosvybspqjhv.sOrpsqoesvybosyb
hvrrgbesvrsgja sngsqsgqvay,srishqzbsqosboesrtsvqiibesvpjob,spyjay
rvybipjhbsujmyvsyqzbsfbbospqhvbe.


AYQGVBIs19.sVybsGirgybv.

“Hyjguqvbh,syqzbscbshyjggbesjosvyqvshyjg?”

LnbblnbmsqoesJsyqesknhvsdbtvsvybsGblnre,sqoespbibshqnovbijomsqpqcstiru
vybspqvbi,strisvybsurubovsbqaysraangjbespjvysyjhsrposvyrnmyvh,spybosvyb
qfrzbspriehspbibsgnvsvrsnhsfcsqshviqombi,spyr,sgqnhjomsfbtribsnh,
dbzbddbesyjhsuqhhjzbstribtjombisqvsvybszbhhbdsjoslnbhvjro.sYbspqhsfnv
hyqffjdcsqggqibddbesjostqebeskqa bvsqoesgqvaybesvirphbih;sqsiqmsrtsq
fdqa syqoe biayjbtsjozbhvjomsyjhsoba .sQsarotdnbovshuqdd-grxsyqesjosqdd
ejibavjrohstdrpbesrzbisyjhstqab,sqoesdbtvsjvsdj bsvybsarugdjaqvbe
ijffbesfbesrtsqsvriibov,spybosvybsinhyjomspqvbihsyqzbsfbboseijbesng.

“Yqzbscbshyjggbesjosybi?”sybsibgbqvbe.

“CrnsubqosvybshyjgsGblnre,sJshnggrhb,”shqjesJ,svicjomsvrsmqjosqsdjvvdb
uribsvjubstrisqosnojovbiingvbesdrr sqvsyju.

“Qcb,svybsGblnre—vyqvshyjgsvybib,”sybshqje,seiqpjomsfqa syjhspyrdbsqiu,
qoesvybosiqgjedcshyrzjomsjvshviqjmyvsrnvstirusyju,spjvysvybstjxbe
fqcrobvsrtsyjhsgrjovbestjombiseqivbestnddsqvsvybsrfkbav.

“Cbh,”shqjesJ,s“pbsyqzbsknhvshjmobesvybsqivjadbh.”

“Qocvyjomserposvybibsqfrnvscrnishrndh?”

“Qfrnvspyqv?”

“Ry,sgbiyqghscrnsyqz’o’vsmrvsqoc,”sybshqjeslnja dc.s“Orsuqvvbisvyrnmy,
Js orpsuqocsayqghsvyqvsyqz’o’vsmrvsqoc,—mrresdna svrs’bu;sqoesvybcsqib
qddsvybsfbvvbisrttstrisjv.sQshrnd’hsqshrivsrtsqstjtvyspybbdsvrsq
pqmro.”

“Pyqvsqibscrnskqffbijomsqfrnv,shyjguqvb?”shqjesJ.

“_Yb’h_smrvsbornmy,svyrnmy,svrsuq bsngstrisqddsebtjajboajbhsrtsvyqv
hrivsjosrvybisayqgh,”sqfingvdcshqjesvybshviqombi,sgdqajomsqsobizrnh
bugyqhjhsngrosvybspries_yb_.

“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“dbv’hsmr;svyjhstbddrpsyqhsfir bosdrrhbstiru
hrubpybib;syb’hsvqd jomsqfrnvshrubvyjomsqoeshrubfrecspbsero’vs orp.”

“Hvrg!”saijbesvybshviqombi.s“Cbshqjesvinb—cbsyqz’o’vshbbosRdesVynoebi
cbv,syqzbscb?”

“Pyr’hsRdesVynoebi?”shqjesJ,sqmqjosijzbvbespjvysvybsjohqobsbqiobhvobhh
rtsyjhsuqoobi.

“AqgvqjosQyqf.”

“Pyqv!svybsaqgvqjosrtsrnishyjg,svybsGblnre?”

“Qcb,squromshrubsrtsnhsrdeshqjdrisayqgh,sybsmrbhsfcsvyqvsoqub.sCb
yqz’o’vshbbosyjuscbv,syqzbscb?”

“Or,spbsyqz’o’v.sYb’hshja svybcshqc,sfnvsjhsmbvvjomsfbvvbi,sqoespjddsfb
qddsijmyvsqmqjosfbtribsdrom.”

“Qddsijmyvsqmqjosfbtribsdrom!”sdqnmybesvybshviqombi,spjvysqshrdbuodc
ebijhjzbshrivsrtsdqnmy.s“Drr scb;spybosAqgvqjosQyqfsjhsqddsijmyv,svybo
vyjhsdbtvsqiusrtsujobspjddsfbsqddsijmyv;sorvsfbtrib.”

“Pyqvserscrns orpsqfrnvsyju?”

“Pyqvsejesvybcs_vbdd_scrnsqfrnvsyju?sHqcsvyqv!”

“Vybcsejeo’vsvbddsunaysrtsqocvyjomsqfrnvsyju;srodcsJ’zbsybqiesvyqvsyb’h
qsmrrespyqdb-ynovbi,sqoesqsmrresaqgvqjosvrsyjhsaibp.”

“Vyqv’hsvinb,svyqv’hsvinb—cbh,sfrvysvinbsbornmy.sFnvscrnsunhvsknugspybo
ybsmjzbhsqosriebi.sHvbgsqoesmirpd;smirpdsqoesmr—vyqv’hsvybspriespjvy
AqgvqjosQyqf.sFnvsorvyjomsqfrnvsvyqvsvyjomsvyqvsyqggbobesvrsyjusrtt
AqgbsYrio,sdromsqmr,spybosybsdqcsdj bsebqestrisvyibbseqchsqoesojmyvh;
orvyjomsqfrnvsvyqvsebqedcsh ijuuqmbspjvysvybsHgqojqiesqtribsvybsqdvqi
josHqovq?—ybqiesorvyjomsqfrnvsvyqv,sby?sOrvyjomsqfrnvsvybshjdzbi
aqdqfqhysybshgqvsjovr?sQoesorvyjomsqfrnvsyjhsdrhjomsyjhsdbmsdqhv
zrcqmb,sqaariejomsvrsvybsgirgybac.sEjeo’vscbsybqisqspriesqfrnvsvybu
uqvvbihsqoeshrubvyjomsurib,sby?sOr,sJsero’vsvyjo scbseje;syrpsarndescb?
Pyrs orphsjv?sOrvsqddsOqovna bv,sJsmnbhh.sFnvsyrph’bzbi,suqcyqg,scb’zb
ybqiesvbddsqfrnvsvybsdbm,sqoesyrpsybsdrhvsjv;sqcb,scbsyqzbsybqiesrt
vyqv,sJseqibshqc.sRyscbh,s_vyqv_sbzbicsrobs orphsq’urhv—Jsubqosvybc
 orpsyb’hsrodcsrobsdbm;sqoesvyqvsqsgqiuqabvvjsvrr svybsrvybisrtt.”

“Ucstijboe,”shqjesJ,s“pyqvsqddsvyjhsmjffbijhysrtscrnihsjhsqfrnv,sJ
ero’vs orp,sqoesJsero’vsunaysaqib;strisjvshbbuhsvrsubsvyqvscrnsunhvsfb
qsdjvvdbsequqmbesjosvybsybqe.sFnvsjtscrnsqibshgbq jomsrtsAqgvqjosQyqf,
rtsvyqvshyjgsvybib,svybsGblnre,svybosdbvsubsvbddscrn,svyqvsJs orpsqdd
qfrnvsvybsdrhhsrtsyjhsdbm.”

“_Qdd_sqfrnvsjv,sby—hnibscrnser?—qdd?”

“Gibvvcshnib.”

PjvystjombisgrjovbesqoesbcbsdbzbddbesqvsvybsGblnre,svybsfbmmqi-dj b
hviqombishvrresqsurubov,sqhsjtsjosqsvirnfdbesibzbijb;svyboshvqivjomsq
djvvdb,svniobesqoeshqje:—“Cb’zbshyjggbe,syqzbscb?sOqubhserposrosvyb
gqgbih?sPbdd,spbdd,spyqv’hshjmobe,sjhshjmobe;sqoespyqv’hsvrsfb,spjdd
fb;sqoesvybosqmqjo,sgbiyqghsjvspro’vsfb,sqtvbisqdd.sQocyrp,sjv’hsqdd
tjxbesqoesqiiqombesq’ibqec;sqoeshrubshqjdrihsrisrvybisunhvsmrspjvysyju,
Jshnggrhb;sqhspbddsvybhbsqhsqocsrvybisubo,sMresgjvcs’bu!sUriojomsvrscb,
hyjguqvbh,suriojom;svybsjobttqfdbsybqzbohsfdbhhscb;sJ’ushriicsJshvrggbe
cb.”

“Drr sybib,stijboe,”shqjesJ,s“jtscrnsyqzbsqocvyjomsjugrivqovsvrsvbdd
nh,srnvspjvysjv;sfnvsjtscrnsqibsrodcsvicjomsvrsfqufrrwdbsnh,scrnsqib
ujhvq bosjoscrnismqub;svyqv’hsqddsJsyqzbsvrshqc.”

“Qoesjv’hshqjeszbicspbdd,sqoesJsdj bsvrsybqisqsayqgsvqd sngsvyqvspqc;
crnsqibsknhvsvybsuqostrisyju—vybsdj bhsrtscb.sUriojomsvrscb,shyjguqvbh,
uriojom!sRy!spyboscbsmbvsvybib,svbdds’busJ’zbsaroadnebesorvsvrsuq bsrob
rts’bu.”

“Qy,sucsebqistbddrp,scrnsaqo’vstrrdsnhsvyqvspqc—crnsaqo’vstrrdsnh.sJv
jhsvybsbqhjbhvsvyjomsjosvybspridestrisqsuqosvrsdrr sqhsjtsybsyqesq
mibqvshbaibvsjosyju.”

“Uriojomsvrscb,shyjguqvbh,suriojom.”

“Uriojomsjvsjh,”shqjesJ.s“Arubsqdrom,sLnbblnbm,sdbv’hsdbqzbsvyjhsaiqwc
uqo.sFnvshvrg,svbddsubscrnisoqub,spjddscrn?”

“Bdjkqy.”

Bdjkqy!svyrnmyvsJ,sqoespbspqd besqpqc,sfrvysaruubovjom,sqtvbisbqay
rvybi’hstqhyjro,sngrosvyjhsiqmmbesrdeshqjdri;sqoesqmibbesvyqvsybspqh
orvyjomsfnvsqsynufnm,svicjomsvrsfbsqsfnmfbqi.sFnvspbsyqesorvsmrob
gbiyqghsqfrzbsqsynoeibescqieh,spybosayqoajomsvrsvniosqsariobi,sqoe
drr jomsfqa sqhsJsejeshr,spyrshyrndesfbshbbosfnvsBdjkqystrddrpjomsnh,
vyrnmysqvsqsejhvqoab.sHrubyrp,svybshjmyvsrtsyjushvina subshr,svyqvsJ
hqjesorvyjomsvrsLnbblnbmsrtsyjhsfbjomsfbyjoe,sfnvsgqhhbesrospjvysuc
aruiqeb,sqoxjrnhsvrshbbspybvybisvybshviqombisprndesvniosvybshqubsariobi
vyqvspbseje.sYbseje;sqoesvybosjvshbbubesvrsubsvyqvsybspqhsermmjomsnh,
fnvspjvyspyqvsjovbovsJsarndesorvstrisvybsdjtbsrtsubsjuqmjob.sVyjh
ajianuhvqoab,sarngdbespjvysyjhsqufjmnrnh,syqdt-yjovjom,syqdt-ibzbqdjom,
hyirnebeshrivsrtsvqd ,sorpsfbmqvsjosubsqdds joehsrtszqmnbsproebiubovh
qoesyqdt-qggibybohjroh,sqoesqddsaroobavbespjvysvybsGblnre;sqoesAqgvqjo
Qyqf;sqoesvybsdbmsybsyqesdrhv;sqoesvybsAqgbsYriostjv;sqoesvybshjdzbi
aqdqfqhy;sqoespyqvsAqgvqjosGbdbmsyqeshqjesrtsyju,spybosJsdbtvsvybshyjg
vybseqcsgibzjrnh;sqoesvybsgibejavjrosrtsvybshlnqpsVjhvjm;sqoesvyb
zrcqmbspbsyqesfrnoesrnihbdzbhsvrshqjd;sqoesqsynoeibesrvybishyqerpc
vyjomh.

JspqhsibhrdzbesvrshqvjhtcsuchbdtspybvybisvyjhsiqmmbesBdjkqyspqhsibqddc
ermmjomsnhsrisorv,sqoespjvysvyqvsjovbovsairhhbesvybspqcspjvysLnbblnbm,
qoesrosvyqvshjebsrtsjvsibviqabesrnishvbgh.sFnvsBdjkqysgqhhbesro,
pjvyrnvshbbujomsvrsorvjabsnh.sVyjhsibdjbzbesub;sqoesroabsurib,sqoe
tjoqddcsqhsjvshbbubesvrsub,sJsgirornoabesyjusjosucsybqiv,sqsynufnm.


AYQGVBIs20.sQddsQhvji.

Qseqcsrisvprsgqhhbe,sqoesvybibspqhsmibqvsqavjzjvcsqfrqiesvybsGblnre.
Orvsrodcspbibsvybsrdeshqjdhsfbjomsuboebe,sfnvsobpshqjdhspbibsarujomsro
frqie,sqoesfrdvhsrtsaqozqh,sqoesarjdhsrtsijmmjom;sjoshyriv,sbzbicvyjom
fbvr bobesvyqvsvybshyjg’hsgibgqiqvjrohspbibsyniicjomsvrsqsadrhb.
AqgvqjosGbdbmshbderusrisobzbispbovsqhyrib,sfnvshqvsjosyjhspjmpqu
 bbgjomsqshyqigsdrr -rnvsngrosvybsyqoeh:sFjdeqesejesqddsvybsgniayqhjom
qoesgirzjejomsqvsvybshvribh;sqoesvybsubosbugdrcbesjosvybsyrdesqoesro
vybsijmmjomspbibspri jomsvjddsdromsqtvbisojmyv-tqdd.

RosvybseqcstrddrpjomsLnbblnbm’hshjmojomsvybsqivjadbh,spriespqhsmjzbosqv
qddsvybsjoohspybibsvybshyjg’hsarugqocspbibshvrggjom,svyqvsvybjisaybhvh
unhvsfbsrosfrqiesfbtribsojmyv,strisvybibspqhsorsvbddjomsyrpshrrosvyb
zbhhbdsujmyvsfbshqjdjom.sHrsLnbblnbmsqoesJsmrvserposrnisviqgh,
ibhrdzjom,syrpbzbi,svrshdbbgsqhyribsvjddsvybsdqhv.sFnvsjvshbbuhsvybc
qdpqchsmjzbszbicsdromsorvjabsjosvybhbsaqhbh,sqoesvybshyjgsejesorvshqjd
trishbzbiqdseqch.sFnvsorsproebi;svybibspqhsqsmrresebqdsvrsfbserob,sqoe
vybibsjhsorsvbddjomsyrpsuqocsvyjomhsvrsfbsvyrnmyvsrt,sfbtribsvybsGblnre
pqhstnddcsblnjggbe.

Bzbicsrobs orphspyqvsqsundvjvnebsrtsvyjomh—fbeh,shqnab-gqoh,s ojzbhsqoe
tri h,shyrzbdhsqoesvromh,soqg joh,sonv-aiqa bih,sqoespyqvsorv,sqib
joejhgbohqfdbsvrsvybsfnhjobhhsrtsyrnhb bbgjom.sKnhvshrspjvyspyqdjom,
pyjaysobabhhjvqvbhsqsvyibb-cbqih’syrnhb bbgjomsngrosvybspjebsrabqo,stqi
tirusqddsmirabih,sarhvbiurombih,seravrih,sfq bih,sqoesfqo bih.sQoe
vyrnmysvyjhsqdhrsyrdehsvinbsrtsubiayqovszbhhbdh,scbvsorvsfcsqocsubqoh
vrsvybshqubsbxvbovsqhspjvyspyqdbubo.sTrisfbhjebhsvybsmibqvsdbomvysrt
vybspyqdjomszrcqmb,svybsonubirnhsqivjadbhsgbandjqisvrsvybsgirhbanvjro
rtsvybstjhybic,sqoesvybsjugrhhjfjdjvcsrtsibgdqajomsvybusqvsvybsiburvb
yqifrihsnhnqddcstiblnbovbe,sjvsunhvsfbsibubufbibe,svyqvsrtsqddshyjgh,
pyqdjomszbhhbdhsqibsvybsurhvsbxgrhbesvrsqaajebovhsrtsqdds joeh,sqoe
bhgbajqddcsvrsvybsebhvinavjrosqoesdrhhsrtsvybszbicsvyjomhsngrospyjay
vybshnaabhhsrtsvybszrcqmbsurhvsebgboeh.sYboab,svybshgqibsfrqvh,shgqib
hgqih,sqoeshgqibsdjobhsqoesyqigrroh,sqoeshgqibsbzbicvyjomh,sqdurhv,sfnv
qshgqibsAqgvqjosqoesengdjaqvbshyjg.

QvsvybsgbijresrtsrnisqiijzqdsqvsvybsJhdqoe,svybsybqzjbhvshvriqmbsrtsvyb
Gblnresyqesfbbosqdurhvsarugdbvbe;sarugijhjomsybisfbbt,sfibqe,spqvbi,
tnbd,sqoesjirosyrrghsqoeshvqzbh.sFnv,sqhsfbtribsyjovbe,strishrubsvjub
vybibspqhsqsarovjonqdstbvayjomsqoesaqiicjomsrosfrqiesrtsejzbihsreehsqoe
boehsrtsvyjomh,sfrvysdqimbsqoeshuqdd.

AyjbtsquromsvyrhbspyrsejesvyjhstbvayjomsqoesaqiicjomspqhsAqgvqjo
Fjdeqe’hshjhvbi,sqsdbqosrdesdqecsrtsqsurhvsebvbiujobesqoesjoebtqvjmqfdb
hgjijv,sfnvspjvyqdszbics joeybqivbe,spyrshbbubesibhrdzbesvyqv,sjts_hyb_
arndesybdgsjv,sorvyjomshyrndesfbstrnoespqovjomsjosvybsGblnre,sqtvbi
roabstqjidcsmbvvjomsvrshbq.sQvsrobsvjubshybsprndesarubsrosfrqiespjvysq
kqisrtsgja dbhstrisvybshvbpqie’hsgqovic;sqorvybisvjubspjvysqsfnoaysrt
lnjddhstrisvybsayjbtsuqvb’hsebh ,spybibsybs bgvsyjhsdrm;sqsvyjiesvjub
pjvysqsirddsrtstdqoobdstrisvybshuqddsrtshrubsrob’hsiybnuqvjasfqa .
Obzbisejesqocspruqosfbvvbisebhbizbsybisoqub,spyjayspqhsAyqijvc—Qnov
Ayqijvc,sqhsbzbicfrecsaqddbesybi.sQoesdj bsqshjhvbisrtsayqijvcsejesvyjh
ayqijvqfdbsQnovsAyqijvcsfnhvdbsqfrnvsyjvybisqoesvyjvybi,sibqecsvrsvnio
ybisyqoesqoesybqivsvrsqocvyjomsvyqvsgirujhbesvrscjbdeshqtbvc,sarutriv,
qoesarohrdqvjrosvrsqddsrosfrqiesqshyjgsjospyjaysybisfbdrzbesfirvybi
Fjdeqespqhsaroabiobe,sqoesjospyjayshybsybihbdtsrpobesqsharibsrisvprsrt
pbdd-hqzbeserddqih.

FnvsjvspqhshvqivdjomsvrshbbsvyjhsbxabddbovsybqivbesLnq bibhhsarujomsro
frqie,sqhshybsejesvybsdqhvseqc,spjvysqsdromsrjd-dqedbsjosrobsyqoe,sqoe
qshvjddsdrombispyqdjomsdqoabsjosvybsrvybi.sOrispqhsFjdeqesyjuhbdtsori
AqgvqjosGbdbmsqvsqddsfqa pqie.sQhstrisFjdeqe,sybsaqiijbesqfrnvspjvysyju
qsdromsdjhvsrtsvybsqivjadbhsobbebe,sqoesqvsbzbicstibhysqiijzqd,serpo
pbovsyjhsuqi srggrhjvbsvyqvsqivjadbsngrosvybsgqgbi.sBzbicsroabsjosq
pyjdbsGbdbmsaqubsyrffdjomsrnvsrtsyjhspyqdbfrobsebo,sirqijomsqvsvybsubo
erposvybsyqvaypqch,sirqijomsngsvrsvybsijmmbihsqvsvybsuqhv-ybqe,sqoe
vybosaroadnebesfcsirqijomsfqa sjovrsyjhspjmpqu.

Enijomsvybhbseqchsrtsgibgqiqvjro,sLnbblnbmsqoesJsrtvboszjhjvbesvyb
aiqtv,sqoesqhsrtvbosJsqh besqfrnvsAqgvqjosQyqf,sqoesyrpsybspqh,sqoe
pybosybspqhsmrjomsvrsarubsrosfrqiesyjhshyjg.sVrsvybhbslnbhvjrohsvybc
prndesqohpbi,svyqvsybspqhsmbvvjomsfbvvbisqoesfbvvbi,sqoespqhsbxgbavbe
qfrqiesbzbicseqc;subqovjub,svybsvprsaqgvqjoh,sGbdbmsqoesFjdeqe,sarnde
qvvboesvrsbzbicvyjomsobabhhqicsvrstjvsvybszbhhbdstrisvybszrcqmb.sJtsJ
yqesfbboserpoijmyvsyrobhvspjvysuchbdt,sJsprndesyqzbshbboszbicsgdqjodc
josucsybqivsvyqvsJsejesfnvsyqdtstqoacsfbjomsaruujvvbesvyjhspqcsvrshr
dromsqszrcqmb,spjvyrnvsroabsdqcjomsucsbcbhsrosvybsuqospyrspqhsvrsfbsvyb
qfhrdnvbsejavqvrisrtsjv,shrshrrosqhsvybshyjgshqjdbesrnvsngrosvybsrgbo
hbq.sFnvspybosqsuqoshnhgbavhsqocspirom,sjvshrubvjubhsyqggbohsvyqvsjtsyb
fbsqdibqecsjozrdzbesjosvybsuqvvbi,sybsjohbohjfdcshvijzbhsvrsarzbisng
yjhshnhgjajrohsbzbostirusyjuhbdt.sQoesunaysvyjhspqcsjvspqhspjvysub.sJ
hqjesorvyjom,sqoesvijbesvrsvyjo sorvyjom.

Qvsdqhvsjvspqhsmjzbosrnvsvyqvshrubsvjubsobxvseqcsvybshyjgsprnde
abivqjodcshqjd.sHrsobxvsuriojom,sLnbblnbmsqoesJsvrr sqszbicsbqidc
hvqiv.


AYQGVBIs21.sMrjomsQfrqie.

Jvspqhsobqidcshjxsr’adra ,sfnvsrodcsmibcsjugbitbavsujhvcseqpo,spybospb
eibpsojmysvybspyqit.

“Vybibsqibshrubshqjdrihsinoojomsqybqesvybib,sjtsJshbbsijmyv,”shqjesJsvr
Lnbblnbm,s“jvsaqo’vsfbshyqerph;shyb’hsrttsfcshnoijhb,sJsmnbhh;sarub
ro!”

“Qzqhv!”saijbesqszrjab,spyrhbsrpobisqvsvybshqubsvjubsarujomsadrhb
fbyjoesnh,sdqjesqsyqoesngrosfrvysrnishyrndebih,sqoesvybosjohjonqvjom
yjuhbdtsfbvpbbosnh,shvrreshvrrgjomstripqiesqsdjvvdb,sjosvybsnoabivqjo
vpjdjmyv,shviqombdcsgbbijomstirusLnbblnbmsvrsub.sJvspqhsBdjkqy.

“Mrjomsqfrqie?”

“Yqoehsrtt,spjddscrn,”shqjesJ.

“Drr bbsybib,”shqjesLnbblnbm,shyq jomsyjuhbdt,s“mrs’pqc!”

“Qjo’vsmrjomsqfrqie,svybo?”

“Cbh,spbsqib,”shqjesJ,s“fnvspyqvsfnhjobhhsjhsvyqvsrtscrnih?sErscrn
 orp,sUi.sBdjkqy,svyqvsJsarohjebiscrnsqsdjvvdbsjugbivjobov?”

“Or,sor,sor;sJspqho’vsqpqibsrtsvyqv,”shqjesBdjkqy,shdrpdcsqoe
proebijomdcsdrr jomstirusubsvrsLnbblnbm,spjvysvybsurhvsnoqaarnovqfdb
mdqoabh.

“Bdjkqy,”shqjesJ,s“crnspjddsrfdjmbsucstijboesqoesubsfcspjvyeiqpjom.sPb
qibsmrjomsvrsvybsJoejqosqoesGqajtjasRabqoh,sqoesprndesgibtbisorvsvrsfb
ebvqjobe.”

“Cbsfb,sfbscb?sArujomsfqa sqtribsfibq tqhv?”

“Yb’hsaiqa be,sLnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“arubsro.”

“Yrddrq!”saijbeshvqvjroqicsBdjkqy,syqjdjomsnhspybospbsyqesiburzbesqstbp
gqabh.

“Obzbisujoesyju,”shqjesJ,s“Lnbblnbm,sarubsro.”

Fnvsybshvrdbsngsvrsnhsqmqjo,sqoeshneebodcsadqggjomsyjhsyqoesrosuc
hyrndebi,shqje—“Ejescbshbbsqocvyjomsdrr jomsdj bsubosmrjomsvrpqiehsvyqv
hyjgsqspyjdbsqmr?”

Hvina sfcsvyjhsgdqjosuqvvbi-rt-tqavslnbhvjro,sJsqohpbibe,shqcjom,s“Cbh,
JsvyrnmyvsJsejeshbbstrnisristjzbsubo;sfnvsjvspqhsvrrsejusvrsfbshnib.”

“Zbicseju,szbicseju,”shqjesBdjkqy.s“Uriojomsvrscb.”

Roabsuribspbslnjvvbesyju;sfnvsroabsuribsybsaqubshrtvdcsqtvbisnh;sqoe
vrnayjomsucshyrndebisqmqjo,shqje,s“Hbbsjtscrnsaqostjoes’busorp,spjdd
cb?

“Tjoespyr?”

“Uriojomsvrscb!suriojomsvrscb!”sybsibkrjobe,sqmqjosurzjomsrtt.s“Ry!sJ
pqhsmrjomsvrspqioscbsqmqjohv—fnvsobzbisujoe,sobzbisujoe—jv’hsqddsrob,
qddsjosvybstqujdcsvrr;—hyqigstirhvsvyjhsuriojom,sqjo’vsjv?sMrre-fcbsvr
cb.sHyqo’vshbbscbsqmqjoszbicshrro,sJsmnbhh;snodbhhsjv’hsfbtribsvyb
MiqoesKnic.”sQoespjvysvybhbsaiqa bespriehsybstjoqddcsebgqivbe,sdbqzjom
ub,strisvybsurubov,sjosorshuqddsproebiubovsqvsyjhstiqovjasjugneboab.

Qvsdqhv,shvbggjomsrosfrqiesvybsGblnre,spbstrnoesbzbicvyjomsjosgirtrnoe
lnjbv,sorvsqshrndsurzjom.sVybsaqfjosboviqoabspqhsdra bespjvyjo;svyb
yqvaybhspbibsqddsro,sqoesdnufbibespjvysarjdhsrtsijmmjom.sMrjomstripqie
vrsvybstribaqhvdb,spbstrnoesvybshdjebsrtsvybshanvvdbsrgbo.sHbbjomsq
djmyv,spbspbovserpo,sqoestrnoesrodcsqosrdesijmmbisvybib,spiqggbesjosq
vqvvbibesgbq-kqa bv.sYbspqhsvyirposqvspyrdbsdbomvysngrosvprsaybhvh,syjh
tqabserpopqiehsqoesjoadrhbesjosyjhstrdebesqiuh.sVybsgirtrnoebhvshdnufbi
hdbgvsngrosyju.

“Vyrhbshqjdrihspbshqp,sLnbblnbm,spybibsaqosvybcsyqzbsmrobsvr?”shqjesJ,
drr jomsenfjrnhdcsqvsvybshdbbgbi.sFnvsjvshbbubesvyqv,spybosrosvyb
pyqit,sLnbblnbmsyqesorvsqvsqddsorvjabespyqvsJsorpsqddnebesvr;syboabsJ
prndesyqzbsvyrnmyvsuchbdtsvrsyqzbsfbbosrgvjaqddcsebabjzbesjosvyqv
uqvvbi,spbibsjvsorvstrisBdjkqy’hsrvybipjhbsjobxgdjaqfdbslnbhvjro.sFnvsJ
fbqvsvybsvyjomserpo;sqoesqmqjosuqi jomsvybshdbbgbi,skrandqidcsyjovbesvr
Lnbblnbmsvyqvsgbiyqghspbsyqesfbhvshjvsngspjvysvybsfrec;svbddjomsyjusvr
bhvqfdjhysyjuhbdtsqaariejomdc.sYbsgnvsyjhsyqoesngrosvybshdbbgbi’hsibqi,
qhsvyrnmystbbdjomsjtsjvspqhshrtvsbornmy;sqoesvybo,spjvyrnvsuribsqer,
hqvslnjbvdcserposvybib.

“Miqajrnh!sLnbblnbm,sero’vshjvsvybib,”shqjesJ.

“Ry!sgbiicserreshbqv,”shqjesLnbblnbm,s“ucsarnovicspqc;spro’vsynivsyju
tqab.”

“Tqab!”shqjesJ,s“aqddsvyqvsyjhstqab?szbicsfbobzrdbovsarnovboqoabsvybo;
fnvsyrpsyqiesybsfibqvybh,syb’hsybqzjomsyjuhbdt;smbvsrtt,sLnbblnbm,scrn
qibsybqzc,sjv’hsmijoejomsvybstqabsrtsvybsgrri.sMbvsrtt,sLnbblnbm!sDrr ,
yb’ddsvpjvayscrnsrttshrro.sJsproebisybsero’vspq b.”

Lnbblnbmsiburzbesyjuhbdtsvrsknhvsfbcroesvybsybqesrtsvybshdbbgbi,sqoe
djmyvbesyjhsvruqyqp sgjgb.sJshqvsqvsvybstbbv.sPbs bgvsvybsgjgbsgqhhjom
rzbisvybshdbbgbi,stirusrobsvrsvybsrvybi.sUbqopyjdb,sngroslnbhvjrojom
yjusjosyjhsfir bostqhyjro,sLnbblnbmsmqzbsubsvrsnoebihvqoesvyqv,sjosyjh
dqoe,srpjomsvrsvybsqfhboabsrtshbvvbbhsqoeshrtqhsrtsqddshrivh,svybs jom,
ayjbth,sqoesmibqvsgbrgdbsmbobiqddc,spbibsjosvybsanhvrusrtstqvvbojom
hrubsrtsvybsdrpbisriebihstrisrvvruqoh;sqoesvrstniojhysqsyrnhb
arutrivqfdcsjosvyqvsibhgbav,scrnsyqesrodcsvrsfncsngsbjmyvsrisvbosdqwc
tbddrph,sqoesdqcsvybusirnoesjosvybsgjbihsqoesqdarzbh.sFbhjebh,sjvspqh
zbicsarozbojbovsrosqosbxanihjro;sunaysfbvvbisvyqosvyrhbsmqiebo-ayqjih
pyjaysqibsarozbivjfdbsjovrspqd jom-hvja h;sngrosraaqhjro,sqsayjbt
aqddjomsyjhsqvvboeqov,sqoesebhjijomsyjusvrsuq bsqshbvvbbsrtsyjuhbdt
noebisqshgibqejomsvibb,sgbiyqghsjoshrubsequgsuqihycsgdqab.

Pyjdbsoqiiqvjomsvybhbsvyjomh,sbzbicsvjubsLnbblnbmsibabjzbesvybsvruqyqp 
tirusub,sybstdrnijhybesvybsyqvaybv-hjebsrtsjvsrzbisvybshdbbgbi’hsybqe.

“Pyqv’hsvyqvstri,sLnbblnbm?”

“Gbiicsbqhc,s jdd-b;sry!sgbiicsbqhc!”

Ybspqhsmrjomsrospjvyshrubspjdesibujojhaboabhsqfrnvsyjhsvruqyqp -gjgb,
pyjay,sjvshbbube,syqesjosjvhsvprsnhbhsfrvysfiqjobesyjhstrbhsqoeshrrvybe
yjhshrnd,spybospbspbibsejibavdcsqvviqavbesvrsvybshdbbgjomsijmmbi.sVyb
hviromszqgrisorpsarugdbvbdcstjddjomsvybsaroviqavbesyrdb,sjvsfbmqosvr
vbddsngrosyju.sYbsfibqvybespjvysqshrivsrtsunttdbeobhh;svyboshbbube
virnfdbesjosvybsorhb;svybosibzrdzbesrzbisroabsrisvpjab;svyboshqvsngsqoe
inffbesyjhsbcbh.

“Yrddrq!”sybsfibqvybesqvsdqhv,s“pyrsfbscbshur bih?”

“Hyjggbesubo,”sqohpbibesJ,s“pyboserbhshybshqjd?”

“Qcb,sqcb,scbsqibsmrjomsjosybi,sfbscb?sHybshqjdhsvr-eqc.sVybsAqgvqjo
aqubsqfrqiesdqhvsojmyv.”

“PyqvsAqgvqjo?—Qyqf?”

“Pyrsfnvsyjusjoebbe?”

Jspqhsmrjomsvrsqh syjushrubstnivybislnbhvjrohsaroabiojomsQyqf,spybospb
ybqiesqsorjhbsroseba .

“Yrddrq!sHvqifna ’hsqhvji,”shqjesvybsijmmbi.s“Yb’hsqsdjzbdcsayjbtsuqvb,
vyqv;smrresuqo,sqoesqsgjrnh;sfnvsqddsqdjzbsorp,sJsunhvsvniosvr.”sQoeshr
hqcjomsybspbovsroseba ,sqoespbstrddrpbe.

Jvspqhsorpsadbqishnoijhb.sHrrosvybsaibpsaqubsrosfrqiesjosvprhsqoe
vyibbh;svybsijmmbihsfbhvjiibesvybuhbdzbh;svybsuqvbhspbibsqavjzbdc
bomqmbe;sqoeshbzbiqdsrtsvybshyribsgbrgdbspbibsfnhcsjosfijomjomszqijrnh
dqhvsvyjomhsrosfrqie.sUbqopyjdbsAqgvqjosQyqfsibuqjobesjozjhjfdc
bohyijobespjvyjosyjhsaqfjo.


AYQGVBIs22.sUbiicsAyijhvuqh.

Qvsdbomvy,svrpqiehsorro,sngrosvybstjoqdsejhujhhqdsrtsvybshyjg’h
ijmmbih,sqoesqtvbisvybsGblnresyqesfbbosyqndbesrnvstirusvybspyqit,sqoe
qtvbisvybsbzbi-vyrnmyvtndsAyqijvcsyqesarubsrttsjosqspyqdb-frqv,spjvy
ybisdqhvsmjtv—qsojmyv-aqgstrisHvnff,svybshbaroesuqvb,sybi
firvybi-jo-dqp,sqoesqshgqibsFjfdbstrisvybshvbpqie—qtvbisqddsvyjh,svyb
vprsAqgvqjoh,sGbdbmsqoesFjdeqe,sjhhnbestirusvybsaqfjo,sqoesvniojomsvr
vybsayjbtsuqvb,sGbdbmshqje:

“Orp,sUi.sHvqifna ,sqibscrnshnibsbzbicvyjomsjhsijmyv?sAqgvqjosQyqfsjh
qddsibqec—knhvshgr bsvrsyju—orvyjomsuribsvrsfbsmrvstirushyrib,sby?
Pbdd,saqddsqddsyqoeh,svybo.sUnhvbis’busqtvsybib—fdqhvs’bu!”

“Orsobbesrtsgirtqobsprieh,syrpbzbismibqvsvybsyniic,sGbdbm,”shqje
Fjdeqe,s“fnvsqpqcspjvysvybb,stijboesHvqifna ,sqoesersrnisfjeejom.”

Yrpsorp!sYbibsngrosvybszbicsgrjovsrtshvqivjomstrisvybszrcqmb,sAqgvqjo
GbdbmsqoesAqgvqjosFjdeqespbibsmrjomsjvspjvysqsyjmysyqoesrosvyb
lnqivbi-eba ,sknhvsqhsjtsvybcspbibsvrsfbskrjov-aruuqoebihsqvshbq,sqh
pbddsqhsvrsqddsqggbqiqoabhsjosgriv.sQoe,sqhstrisAqgvqjosQyqf,sorshjmo
rtsyjuspqhscbvsvrsfbshbbo;srodc,svybcshqjesybspqhsjosvybsaqfjo.sFnv
vybo,svybsjebqspqh,svyqvsyjhsgibhboabspqhsfcsorsubqohsobabhhqicsjo
mbvvjomsvybshyjgsnoebispbjmy,sqoeshvbbijomsybispbddsrnvsvrshbq.sJoebbe,
qhsvyqvspqhsorvsqvsqddsyjhsgirgbisfnhjobhh,sfnvsvybsgjdrv’h;sqoesqhsyb
pqhsorvscbvsarugdbvbdcsibarzbibe—hrsvybcshqje—vybibtrib,sAqgvqjosQyqf
hvqcbesfbdrp.sQoesqddsvyjhshbbubesoqvniqdsbornmy;sbhgbajqddcsqhsjosvyb
ubiayqovshbizjabsuqocsaqgvqjohsobzbishyrpsvybuhbdzbhsroseba strisq
arohjebiqfdbsvjubsqtvbisybqzjomsngsvybsqoayri,sfnvsibuqjosrzbisvyb
aqfjosvqfdb,syqzjomsqstqibpbddsubiic-uq jomspjvysvybjishyribstijboeh,
fbtribsvybcslnjvsvybshyjgstrismrrespjvysvybsgjdrv.

Fnvsvybibspqhsorvsunaysayqoabsvrsvyjo srzbisvybsuqvvbi,strisAqgvqjo
Gbdbmspqhsorpsqddsqdjzb.sYbshbbubesvrsersurhvsrtsvybsvqd jomsqoe
aruuqoejom,sqoesorvsFjdeqe.

“Qtvsybib,scbshrohsrtsfqaybdrih,”sybsaijbe,sqhsvybshqjdrihsdjombibesqv
vybsuqjo-uqhv.s“Ui.sHvqifna ,seijzbs’busqtv.”

“Hvij bsvybsvbovsvybib!”—pqhsvybsobxvsriebi.sQhsJsyjovbesfbtrib,svyjh
pyqdbfrobsuqilnbbspqhsobzbisgjvaybesbxabgvsjosgriv;sqoesrosfrqiesvyb
Gblnre,strisvyjivcscbqih,svybsriebisvrshvij bsvybsvbovspqhspbdds orpo
vrsfbsvybsobxvsvyjomsvrsybqzjomsngsvybsqoayri.

“Uqosvybsaqghvqo!sFdrresqoesvynoebi!—knug!”—pqhsvybsobxvsaruuqoe,sqoe
vybsaibpshgiqomstrisvybsyqoehgj bh.

Orpsjosmbvvjomsnoebispbjmy,svybshvqvjrosmbobiqddcsraangjbesfcsvybsgjdrv
jhsvybstripqiesgqivsrtsvybshyjg.sQoesybibsFjdeqe,spyr,spjvysGbdbm,sfb
jvs orpo,sjosqeejvjrosvrsyjhsrvybisrttjabih,spqhsrobsrtsvybsdjabohbe
gjdrvhsrtsvybsgriv—ybsfbjomshnhgbavbesvrsyqzbsmrvsyjuhbdtsuqebsqsgjdrv
josriebisvrshqzbsvybsOqovna bvsgjdrv-tbbsvrsqddsvybshyjghsybspqh
aroabiobesjo,strisybsobzbisgjdrvbesqocsrvybisaiqtv—Fjdeqe,sJshqc,sujmyv
orpsfbshbbosqavjzbdcsbomqmbesjosdrr jomsrzbisvybsfrphstrisvyb
qggirqayjomsqoayri,sqoesqvsjovbizqdhshjomjomspyqvshbbubesqsejhuqdshvqzb
rtsghqdurec,svrsaybbisvybsyqoehsqvsvybspjoedqhh,spyrsirqibestrivyshrub
hrivsrtsqsayrinhsqfrnvsvybsmjidhsjosFrrfdbsQddbc,spjvysybqivcsmrre
pjdd.sObzbivybdbhh,sorvsvyibbseqchsgibzjrnh,sFjdeqesyqesvrdesvybusvyqv
orsgirtqobshromhsprndesfbsqddrpbesrosfrqiesvybsGblnre,sgqivjandqidcsjo
mbvvjomsnoebispbjmy;sqoesAyqijvc,syjhshjhvbi,syqesgdqabesqshuqddsayrjab
argcsrtsPqvvhsjosbqayshbquqo’hsfbivy.

Ubqovjub,srzbihbbjomsvybsrvybisgqivsrtsvybshyjg,sAqgvqjosGbdbmsijggbe
qoeshpribsqhvbiosjosvybsurhvstijmyvtndsuqoobi.sJsqdurhvsvyrnmyvsyb
prndeshjo svybshyjgsfbtribsvybsqoayrisarndesfbsmrvsng;sjozrdnovqijdcsJ
gqnhbesrosucsyqoehgj b,sqoesvrdesLnbblnbmsvrsersvybshqub,svyjo jomsrt
vybsgbijdhspbsfrvysiqo,sjoshvqivjomsrosvybszrcqmbspjvyshnaysqsebzjdstri
qsgjdrv.sJspqhsarutrivjomsuchbdt,syrpbzbi,spjvysvybsvyrnmyvsvyqvsjo
gjrnhsFjdeqesujmyvsfbstrnoeshrubshqdzqvjro,shgjvbsrtsyjhshbzbosynoeibe
qoeshbzbovc-hbzbovysdqc;spybosJstbdvsqshneeboshyqigsgr bsjosucsibqi,
qoesvniojomsirnoe,spqhsyriijtjbesqvsvybsqggqijvjrosrtsAqgvqjosGbdbmsjo
vybsqavsrtspjvyeiqpjomsyjhsdbmstirusucsjuubejqvbszjajojvc.sVyqvspqhsuc
tjihvs ja .

“Jhsvyqvsvybspqcsvybcsybqzbsjosvybsuqiayqovshbizjab?”sybsirqibe.
“Hgijom,svyrnshybbg-ybqe;shgijom,sqoesfibq svycsfqa frob!sPycsero’vscb
hgijom,sJshqc,sqddsrtscb—hgijom!sLnryrm!shgijom,svyrnsayqgspjvysvybsibe
pyjh bih;shgijomsvybib,sHarvay-aqg;shgijom,svyrnsmibbosgqovh.sHgijom,sJ
hqc,sqddsrtscb,sqoeshgijomscrnisbcbhsrnv!”sQoeshrshqcjom,sybsurzbe
qdromsvybspjoedqhh,sybibsqoesvybibsnhjomsyjhsdbmszbicstibbdc,spyjdb
jugbivnifqfdbsFjdeqes bgvsdbqejomsrttspjvysyjhsghqdurec.sVyjo hsJ,
AqgvqjosGbdbmsunhvsyqzbsfbboseijo jomshrubvyjomsvr-eqc.

Qvsdqhvsvybsqoayrispqhsng,svybshqjdhspbibshbv,sqoesrttspbsmdjebe.sJv
pqhsqshyriv,sardesAyijhvuqh;sqoesqhsvybshyrivsorivybioseqcsubimbesjovr
ojmyv,spbstrnoesrnihbdzbhsqdurhvsfirqesngrosvybspjovicsrabqo,spyrhb
tibbwjomshgiqcsaqhbesnhsjosjab,sqhsjosgrdjhybesqiuri.sVybsdromsirphsrt
vbbvysrosvybsfndpqi hsmdjhvbobesjosvybsurrodjmyv;sqoesdj bsvybspyjvb
jzricsvnh hsrtshrubsynmbsbdbgyqov,szqhvsanizjomsjajadbhsebgboebestiru
vybsfrph.

Dqo sFjdeqe,sqhsgjdrv,sybqebesvybstjihvspqvay,sqoesbzbisqoesqoro,sqh
vybsrdesaiqtvsebbgsejzbesjovrsvybsmibboshbqh,sqoeshbovsvybshyjzbijom
tirhvsqddsrzbisybi,sqoesvybspjoehsyrpdbe,sqoesvybsarieqmbsiqom,syjh
hvbqecsorvbhspbibsybqie,—


_“Hpbbvstjbdehsfbcroesvybshpbddjomstdrre,sHvqoeseibhhbesjosdjzjom
mibbo.sHrsvrsvybsKbphsrdesAqoqqoshvrre,sPyjdbsKrieqosirddbesfbvpbbo.”_



Obzbisejesvyrhbshpbbvspriehshrnoesuribshpbbvdcsvrsubsvyqosvybo.sVybc
pbibstnddsrtsyrgbsqoestinjvjro.sHgjvbsrtsvyjhstijmjespjovbisojmyvsjo
vybsfrjhvbirnhsQvdqovja,shgjvbsrtsucspbvstbbvsqoespbvvbiskqa bv,svybib
pqhscbv,sjvsvyboshbbubesvrsub,suqocsqsgdbqhqovsyqzbosjoshvrib;sqoe
ubqehsqoesmdqebhshrsbvbioqddcszbioqd,svyqvsvybsmiqhhshyrvsngsfcsvyb
hgijom,snovireebo,snopjdvbe,sibuqjohsqvsujehnuubi.

Qvsdqhvspbsmqjobeshnaysqosrttjom,svyqvsvybsvprsgjdrvhspbibsobbebesor
drombi.sVybshvrnvshqjd-frqvsvyqvsyqesqaarugqojbesnhsfbmqosiqomjom
qdromhjeb.

Jvspqhsanijrnhsqoesorvsnogdbqhjom,syrpsGbdbmsqoesFjdeqespbibsqttbavbe
qvsvyjhsknoavnib,sbhgbajqddcsAqgvqjosFjdeqe.sTrisdrqvysvrsebgqiv,scbv;
zbicsdrqvysvrsdbqzb,strismrre,sqshyjgsfrnoesroshrsdromsqoesgbijdrnhsq
zrcqmb—fbcroesfrvyshvriucsAqgbh;sqshyjgsjospyjayshrubsvyrnhqoehsrtsyjh
yqiesbqiobeserddqihspbibsjozbhvbe;sqshyjg,sjospyjaysqosrdeshyjguqvb
hqjdbesqhsaqgvqjo;sqsuqosqdurhvsqhsrdesqhsyb,sroabsuribshvqivjomsvr
boarnovbisqddsvybsvbiirihsrtsvybsgjvjdbhhskqp;sdrqvysvrshqcsmrre-fcbsvr
qsvyjomshrsbzbicspqcsfijutndsrtsbzbicsjovbibhvsvrsyju,—grrisrdesFjdeqe
djombibesdrom;sgqabesvybseba spjvysqoxjrnhshvijebh;siqoserposjovrsvyb
aqfjosvrshgbq sqorvybistqibpbddspriesvybib;sqmqjosaqubsroseba ,sqoe
drr besvrspjoepqie;sdrr besvrpqiehsvybspjebsqoesboedbhhspqvbih,srodc
frnoebesfcsvybstqi-rttsnohbbosBqhvbiosArovjobovh;sdrr besvrpqiehsvyb
dqoe;sdrr besqdrtv;sdrr besijmyvsqoesdbtv;sdrr besbzbicpybibsqoe
orpybib;sqoesqvsdqhv,subayqojaqddcsarjdjomsqsirgbsngrosjvhsgjo,
arozndhjzbdcsmiqhgbeshvrnvsGbdbmsfcsvybsyqoe,sqoesyrdejomsngsqsdqovbio,
trisqsurubovshvrresmqwjomsybirjaqddcsjosyjhstqab,sqhsunaysqhsvrshqc,
“Obzbivybdbhh,stijboesGbdbm,sJsaqoshvqoesjv;scbh,sJsaqo.”

QhstrisGbdbmsyjuhbdt,sybsvrr sjvsuribsdj bsqsgyjdrhrgybi;sfnvstrisqdd
yjhsgyjdrhrgyc,svybibspqhsqsvbqisvpjo djomsjosyjhsbcb,spybosvybsdqovbio
aqubsvrrsobqi.sQoesyb,svrr,sejesorvsqsdjvvdbsinostirusaqfjosvrseba —orp
qspriesfbdrp,sqoesorpsqspriespjvysHvqifna ,svybsayjbtsuqvb.

Fnv,sqvsdqhv,sybsvniobesvrsyjhsaruiqeb,spjvysqstjoqdshrivsrtsdrr sqfrnv
yju,—“AqgvqjosFjdeqe—arub,srdeshyjguqvb,spbsunhvsmr.sFqa svybsuqjo-cqie
vybib!sFrqvsqyrc!sHvqoesfcsvrsarubsadrhbsqdromhjeb,sorp!sAqibtnd,
aqibtnd!—arub,sFjdeqe,sfrc—hqcscrnisdqhv.sDna svrscb,sHvqifna —dna svr
cb,sUi.sHvnff—dna svrscb,sUi.sTdqh —mrre-fcbsqoesmrresdna svrscb
qdd—qoesvyjhseqcsvyibbscbqihsJ’ddsyqzbsqsyrvshnggbishur jomstriscbsjo
rdesOqovna bv.sYniiqysqoesqpqc!”

“Mresfdbhhscb,sqoesyqzbscbsjosYjhsyrdcs bbgjom,subo,”suniunibesrde
Fjdeqe,sqdurhvsjoarybibovdc.s“Jsyrgbscb’ddsyqzbstjobspbqvybisorp,shr
vyqvsAqgvqjosQyqfsuqcshrrosfbsurzjomsquromscb—qsgdbqhqovshnosjhsqddsyb
obbeh,sqoescb’ddsyqzbsgdbovcsrtsvybusjosvybsvirgjaszrcqmbscbsmr.sFb
aqibtndsjosvybsynov,scbsuqvbh.sEro’vshvqzbsvybsfrqvhsobbedbhhdc,scb
yqigrrobbih;smrrespyjvbsabeqisgdqo sjhsiqjhbestnddsvyibbsgbisabov.
pjvyjosvybscbqi.sEro’vstrimbvscrnisgiqcbih,sbjvybi.sUi.sHvqifna ,sujoe
vyqvsarrgbisero’vspqhvbsvybshgqibshvqzbh.sRy!svybshqjd-obbedbhsqibsjo
vybsmibbosdra bi!sEro’vspyqdbsjvsvrrsunaysq’sDrie’hseqch,subo;sfnv
ero’vsujhhsqstqjisayqoabsbjvybi,svyqv’hsibkbavjomsYbqzbo’hsmrresmjtvh.
Yqzbsqosbcbsvrsvybsurdqhhbhsvjbiab,sUi.sHvnff;sjvspqhsqsdjvvdbsdbq c,sJ
vyrnmyv.sJtscbsvrnaysqvsvybsjhdqoeh,sUi.sTdqh ,sfbpqibsrtstriojaqvjro.
Mrre-fcb,smrre-fcb!sEro’vs bbgsvyqvsaybbhbsvrrsdromserposjosvybsyrde,
Ui.sHvqifna ;sjv’ddshgrjd.sFbsaqibtndspjvysvybsfnvvbi—vpbovcsabovhsvyb
grnoesjvspqh,sqoesujoescb,sjt—”

“Arub,sarub,sAqgvqjosFjdeqe;shvrgsgqdqzbijom,—qpqc!”sqoespjvysvyqv,
Gbdbmsyniijbesyjusrzbisvybshjeb,sqoesfrvyseirgvsjovrsvybsfrqv.

Hyjgsqoesfrqvsejzbimbe;svybsarde,sequgsojmyvsfibbwbsfdbpsfbvpbbo;sq
haibqujomsmnddstdbpsrzbiybqe;svybsvprsynddhspjdedcsirddbe;spbsmqzb
vyibbsybqzc-ybqivbesaybbih,sqoesfdjoedcsgdnombesdj bstqvbsjovrsvybsdrob
Qvdqovja.


AYQGVBIs23.sVybsDbbsHyrib.

Hrubsayqgvbihsfqa ,srobsFnd jomvrospqhshgr bosrt,sqsvqdd,sobpdqoebe
uqijobi,sboarnovbibesjosObpsFbetriesqvsvybsjoo.

Pybosrosvyqvshyjzbijomspjovbi’hsojmyv,svybsGblnresvyinhvsybiszjoejavjzb
frphsjovrsvybsardesuqdjajrnhspqzbh,spyrshyrndesJshbbshvqoejomsqvsybi
ybdusfnvsFnd jomvro!sJsdrr bespjvyshcugqvybvjasqpbsqoestbqitndobhhsngro
vybsuqo,spyrsjosuje-pjovbisknhvsdqoebestirusqstrniscbqih’seqombirnh
zrcqmb,sarndeshrsnoibhvjomdcsgnhysrttsqmqjostrishvjddsqorvybi
vbugbhvnrnhsvbiu.sVybsdqoeshbbubeshariayjomsvrsyjhstbbv.sProebitnddbhv
vyjomhsqibsbzbisvybsnoubovjroqfdb;sebbgsuburijbhscjbdesorsbgjvqgyh;
vyjhshjx-joaysayqgvbisjhsvybshvrobdbhhsmiqzbsrtsFnd jomvro.sDbvsubsrodc
hqcsvyqvsjvstqibespjvysyjusqhspjvysvybshvriu-vrhhbeshyjg,svyqv
ujhbiqfdcseijzbhsqdromsvybsdbbpqiesdqoe.sVybsgrivsprndestqjosmjzb
hnaari;svybsgrivsjhsgjvjtnd;sjosvybsgrivsjhshqtbvc,sarutriv,
ybqivyhvrob,shnggbi,spqiusfdqo bvh,stijboeh,sqddsvyqv’hs joesvrsrni
urivqdjvjbh.sFnvsjosvyqvsmqdb,svybsgriv,svybsdqoe,sjhsvyqvshyjg’h
ejibhvskbrgqiec;shybsunhvstdcsqddsyrhgjvqdjvc;srobsvrnaysrtsdqoe,
vyrnmysjvsfnvsmiqwbsvybs bbd,sprndesuq bsybishyneebisvyirnmysqoe
vyirnmy.sPjvysqddsybisujmyvshybsairpehsqddshqjdsrttshyrib;sjoshrserjom,
tjmyvhs’mqjohvsvybszbicspjoehsvyqvstqjosprndesfdrpsybisyrubpqie;shbb h
qddsvybsdqhybeshbq’hsdqoedbhhobhhsqmqjo;strisibtnmb’hshq bstridriodc
inhyjomsjovrsgbijd;sybisrodcstijboesybisfjvvbibhvstrb!

 orpscbsorp,sFnd jomvro?sMdjughbhserscbshbbusvrshbbsrtsvyqvsurivqddc
jovrdbiqfdbsvinvy;svyqvsqddsebbg,sbqiobhvsvyjo jomsjhsfnvsvybsjovibgje
bttrivsrtsvybshrndsvrs bbgsvybsrgbosjoebgboeboabsrtsybishbq;spyjdbsvyb
pjdebhvspjoehsrtsybqzbosqoesbqivysarohgjibsvrsaqhvsybisrosvyb
vibqaybirnh,shdqzjhyshyrib?

Fnvsqhsjosdqoedbhhobhhsqdrobsibhjebhsyjmybhvsvinvy,shyribdbhh,
joebtjojvbsqhsMre—hr,sfbvvbisjhsjvsvrsgbijhysjosvyqvsyrpdjomsjotjojvb,
vyqosfbsjomdrijrnhdcseqhybesngrosvybsdbb,sbzbosjtsvyqvspbibshqtbvc!sTri
priu-dj b,svybo,sry!spyrsprndesaiqzbosaiqpdsvrsdqoe!sVbiirihsrtsvyb
vbiijfdb!sjhsqddsvyjhsqmrocshrszqjo?sVq bsybqiv,svq bsybqiv,sR
Fnd jomvro!sFbqisvybbsmijudc,sebujmre!sNgstirusvybshgiqcsrtsvyc
rabqo-gbijhyjom—hviqjmyvsng,sdbqghsvycsqgrvybrhjh!


AYQGVBIs24.sVybsQezraqvb.

QhsLnbblnbmsqoesJsqibsorpstqjidcsbufqi besjosvyjhsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom;
qoesqhsvyjhsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjomsyqhshrubyrpsarubsvrsfbsibmqiebesqurom
dqoehubosqhsqsiqvybisnogrbvjaqdsqoesejhibgnvqfdbsgnihnjv;svybibtrib,sJ
qusqddsqoxjbvcsvrsarozjoabscb,scbsdqoehubo,srtsvybsjoknhvjabsybibfc
erobsvrsnhsynovbihsrtspyqdbh.

Josvybstjihvsgdqab,sjvsuqcsfbsebbubesqdurhvshngbitdnrnhsvrsbhvqfdjhy
vybstqav,svyqvsquromsgbrgdbsqvsdqimb,svybsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjomsjhsorv
qaarnovbesrosqsdbzbdspjvyspyqvsqibsaqddbesvybsdjfbiqdsgirtbhhjroh.sJtsq
hviqombispbibsjovirenabesjovrsqocsujhabddqobrnhsubvirgrdjvqoshrajbvc,
jvsprndesfnvshdjmyvdcsqezqoabsvybsmbobiqdsrgjojrosrtsyjhsubijvh,spbib
ybsgibhbovbesvrsvybsarugqocsqhsqsyqigrrobbi,shqc;sqoesjtsjosbundqvjro
rtsvybsoqzqdsrttjabihsybshyrndesqggboesvybsjojvjqdhsH.P.T.s(HgbiusPyqdb
Tjhybic)svrsyjhszjhjvjomsaqie,shnaysqsgirabenibsprndesfbsebbube
gib-bujobovdcsgibhnujomsqoesijejandrnh.

Ernfvdbhhsrobsdbqejomsibqhrospycsvybspridesebadjobhsyrorijomsnh
pyqdbubo,sjhsvyjh:svybcsvyjo svyqv,sqvsfbhv,srniszraqvjrosqurnovhsvrsq
fnvaybijomshrivsrtsfnhjobhh;sqoesvyqvspybosqavjzbdcsbomqmbesvybibjo,spb
qibshniirnoebesfcsqddsuqoobisrtsebtjdbubovh.sFnvaybihspbsqib,svyqvsjh
vinb.sFnvsfnvaybih,sqdhr,sqoesfnvaybihsrtsvybsfdrrejbhvsfqembsyqzbsfbbo
qddsUqivjqdsAruuqoebihspyrusvybspridesjozqijqfdcsebdjmyvhsvrsyrori.sQoe
qhstrisvybsuqvvbisrtsvybsqddbmbesnoadbqodjobhhsrtsrnisfnhjobhh,scb
hyqddshrrosfbsjojvjqvbesjovrsabivqjostqavhsyjvybivrsgibvvcsmbobiqddc
no orpo,sqoespyjay,sngrosvybspyrdb,spjddsvijnugyqovdcsgdqovsvybshgbiu
pyqdb-hyjgsqvsdbqhvsquromsvybsadbqodjbhvsvyjomhsrtsvyjhsvjecsbqivy.sFnv
bzbosmiqovjomsvybsayqimbsjoslnbhvjrosvrsfbsvinb;spyqvsejhriebibe
hdjggbicseba hsrtsqspyqdb-hyjgsqibsarugqiqfdbsvrsvybsnohgbq qfdb
aqiijrosrtsvyrhbsfqvvdb-tjbdehstiruspyjayshrsuqocshrdejbihsibvniosvr
eijo sjosqddsdqejbh’sgdqnejvh?sQoesjtsvybsjebqsrtsgbijdshrsunay
boyqoabhsvybsgrgndqisaroabjvsrtsvybshrdejbi’hsgirtbhhjro;sdbvsubsqhhnib
cbsvyqvsuqocsqszbvbiqospyrsyqhstibbdcsuqiaybesngsvrsqsfqvvbic,sprnde
lnja dcsibarjdsqvsvybsqggqijvjrosrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hszqhvsvqjd,
tqoojomsjovrsbeejbhsvybsqjisrzbisyjhsybqe.sTrispyqvsqibsvyb
arugibybohjfdbsvbiirihsrtsuqosarugqibespjvysvybsjovbidjo besvbiirihsqoe
proebihsrtsMre!

Fnv,svyrnmysvybspridesharnvhsqvsnhspyqdbsynovbih,scbvserbhsjv
nopjvvjomdcsgqcsnhsvybsgirtrnoebhvsyruqmb;scbq,sqosqdd-qfrnoejom
qeriqvjro!strisqdurhvsqddsvybsvqgbih,sdqugh,sqoesaqoedbhsvyqvsfnio
irnoesvybsmdrfb,sfnio,sqhsfbtribshrsuqocshyijobh,svrsrnismdric!

Fnvsdrr sqvsvyjhsuqvvbisjosrvybisdjmyvh;spbjmysjvsjosqddshrivhsrt
haqdbh;shbbspyqvspbspyqdbubosqib,sqoesyqzbsfbbo.

PycsejesvybsEnvaysjosEbsPjvv’hsvjubsyqzbsqeujiqdhsrtsvybjispyqdjom
tdbbvh?sPycsejesDrnjhsXZJ.srtsTiqoab,sqvsyjhsrposgbihroqdsbxgbohb,stjv
rnvspyqdjomshyjghstirusEno ji ,sqoesgrdjvbdcsjozjvbsvrsvyqvsvrposhrub
haribsrisvprsrtstqujdjbhstirusrnisrposjhdqoesrtsOqovna bv?sPycseje
Fijvqjosfbvpbbosvybscbqihs1750sqoes1788sgqcsvrsybispyqdbubosjosfrnovjbh
ngpqiehsrts£1,000,000?sQoesdqhvdc,syrpsarubhsjvsvyqvspbspyqdbubosrt
Qubijaqsorpsrnvonufbisqddsvybsibhvsrtsvybsfqoebespyqdbubosjosvybspride;
hqjdsqsoqzcsrtsngpqiehsrtshbzbosynoeibeszbhhbdh;suqoobesfcsbjmyvbbo
vyrnhqoesubo;scbqidcsarohnujoms4,000,000srtserddqih;svybshyjghsprivy,
qvsvybsvjubsrtshqjdjom,s$20,000,000!sqoesbzbicscbqisjugrivjomsjovrsrni
yqifrihsqspbddsibqgbesyqizbhvsrts$7,000,000.sYrpsarubhsqddsvyjh,sjt
vybibsfbsorvshrubvyjomsgnjhhqovsjospyqdjom?

Fnvsvyjhsjhsorvsvybsyqdt;sdrr sqmqjo.

Jstibbdcsqhhbiv,svyqvsvybsarhurgrdjvbsgyjdrhrgybisaqoorv,strisyjhsdjtb,
grjovsrnvsrobshjomdbsgbqabtndsjotdnboab,spyjayspjvyjosvybsdqhvshjxvc
cbqihsyqhsrgbiqvbesuribsgrvbovjqddcsngrosvybspyrdbsfirqespride,svq bo
josrobsqmmibmqvb,svyqosvybsyjmysqoesujmyvcsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom.sRobspqc
qoesqorvybi,sjvsyqhsfbmrvvbosbzbovhshrsibuqi qfdbsjosvybuhbdzbh,sqoeshr
arovjonrnhdcsurubovrnhsjosvybjishblnbovjqdsjhhnbh,svyqvspyqdjomsuqc
pbddsfbsibmqiebesqhsvyqvsBmcgvjqosurvybi,spyrsfribsrtthgijomsvybuhbdzbh
gibmoqovstirusybispruf.sJvsprndesfbsqsyrgbdbhh,sboedbhhsvqh svr
aqvqdrmnbsqddsvybhbsvyjomh.sDbvsqsyqoetndshnttjab.sTrisuqocscbqihsgqhv
vybspyqdb-hyjgsyqhsfbbosvybsgjrobbisjostbiibvjomsrnvsvybsiburvbhvsqoe
dbqhvs orposgqivhsrtsvybsbqivy.sHybsyqhsbxgdribeshbqhsqoesqiayjgbdqmrbh
pyjaysyqesorsayqiv,spybibsorsArr srisZqoarnzbisyqesbzbishqjdbe.sJt
QubijaqosqoesBnirgbqosubo-rt-pqisorpsgbqabtnddcsijebsjosroabshqzqmb
yqifrih,sdbvsvybustjibshqdnvbhsvrsvybsyrorisqoesmdricsrtsvyb
pyqdb-hyjg,spyjaysrijmjoqddcshyrpbesvybusvybspqc,sqoestjihvsjovbigibvbe
fbvpbbosvybusqoesvybshqzqmbh.sVybcsuqcsabdbfiqvbsqhsvybcspjddsvyb
ybirbhsrtsBxgdrijomsBxgbejvjroh,scrnisArr h,scrnis inhbohvbioh;sfnvsJ
hqcsvyqvsharibhsrtsqorocurnhsAqgvqjohsyqzbshqjdbesrnvsrtsOqovna bv,
vyqvspbibsqhsmibqv,sqoesmibqvbisvyqoscrnisArr sqoescrnis inhbohvbio.
Trisjosvybjishnaarnidbhhsbugvc-yqoebeobhh,svybc,sjosvybsybqvybojhy
hyqi bespqvbih,sqoesfcsvybsfbqaybhsrtsnoibariebe,skqzbdjosjhdqoeh,
fqvvdbespjvyszjimjosproebihsqoesvbiirihsvyqvsArr spjvysqddsyjhsuqijobh
qoesunh bvhsprndesorvspjddjomdcsyqzbseqibe.sQddsvyqvsjhsuqebshnaysq
tdrnijhysrtsjosvybsrdesHrnvysHbqsZrcqmbh,svyrhbsvyjomhspbibsfnvsvyb
djtb-vjubsaruurogdqabhsrtsrnisybirjasOqovna bvbih.sRtvbo,sqezbovnibh
pyjaysZqoarnzbisebejaqvbhsvyibbsayqgvbihsvr,svybhbsubosqaarnovbe
noprivycsrtsfbjomshbvserposjosvybshyjg’hsaruurosdrm.sQy,svybspride!sRy,
vybspride!

NovjdsvybspyqdbstjhybicsirnoebesAqgbsYrio,sorsaruubiabsfnvsardrojqd,
haqiabdcsqocsjovbiarnihbsfnvsardrojqd,spqhsaqiijbesrosfbvpbbosBnirgb
qoesvybsdromsdjobsrtsvybsrgndbovsHgqojhysgirzjoabhsrosvybsGqajtja
arqhv.sJvspqhsvybspyqdbuqospyrstjihvsfir bsvyirnmysvybskbqdrnhsgrdjac
rtsvybsHgqojhysairpo,svrnayjomsvyrhbsardrojbh;sqoe,sjtshgqabsgbiujvvbe,
jvsujmyvsfbsejhvjoavdcshyrposyrpstirusvyrhbspyqdbubosqvsdqhvsbzbovnqvbe
vybsdjfbiqvjrosrtsGbin,sAyjdj,sqoesFrdjzjqstirusvybscr bsrtsRdesHgqjo,
qoesvybsbhvqfdjhyubovsrtsvybsbvbioqdseburaiqacsjosvyrhbsgqivh.

VyqvsmibqvsQubijaqsrosvybsrvybishjebsrtsvybshgybib,sQnhviqdjq,spqh
mjzbosvrsvybsbodjmyvbobespridesfcsvybspyqdbuqo.sQtvbisjvhstjihv
fdnoebi-friosejharzbicsfcsqsEnvayuqo,sqddsrvybishyjghsdromshynoobe
vyrhbshyribhsqhsgbhvjtbirnhdcsfqifqirnh;sfnvsvybspyqdb-hyjgsvrnaybe
vybib.sVybspyqdb-hyjgsjhsvybsvinbsurvybisrtsvyqvsorpsujmyvcsardroc.
Uribrzbi,sjosvybsjotqoacsrtsvybstjihvsQnhviqdjqoshbvvdbubov,svyb
bujmiqovhspbibshbzbiqdsvjubhshqzbestirushvqizqvjrosfcsvybsfbobzrdbov
fjhanjvsrtsvybspyqdb-hyjgsdna jdcseirggjomsqosqoayrisjosvybjispqvbih.
VybsnoarnovbesjhdbhsrtsqddsGrdcobhjqsarotbhhsvybshqubsvinvy,sqoeser
aruubiajqdsyruqmbsvrsvybspyqdb-hyjg,svyqvsadbqibesvybspqcstrisvyb
ujhhjroqicsqoesvybsubiayqov,sqoesjosuqocsaqhbhsaqiijbesvybsgijujvjzb
ujhhjroqijbhsvrsvybjistjihvsebhvjoqvjroh.sJtsvyqvsernfdb-frdvbesdqoe,
Kqgqo,sjhsbzbisvrsfbarubsyrhgjvqfdb,sjvsjhsvybspyqdb-hyjgsqdrobsvrspyru
vybsaibejvspjddsfbsenb;strisqdibqecshybsjhsrosvybsvyibhyrde.

Fnvsjt,sjosvybstqabsrtsqddsvyjh,scrnshvjddsebadqibsvyqvspyqdjomsyqhsor
æhvybvjaqddcsorfdbsqhhrajqvjrohsaroobavbespjvysjv,svybosqusJsibqecsvr
hyjzbistjtvcsdqoabhspjvyscrnsvybib,sqoesnoyrihbscrnspjvysqshgdjvsybdubv
bzbicsvjub.

Vybspyqdbsyqhsorstqurnhsqnvyri,sqoespyqdjomsorstqurnhsayirojadbi,scrn
pjddshqc.

_Vybspyqdbsorstqurnhsqnvyri,sqoespyqdjomsorstqurnhsayirojadbi?_sPyr
pirvbsvybstjihvsqaarnovsrtsrnisDbzjqvyqo?sPyrsfnvsujmyvcsKrf!sQoespyr
arugrhbesvybstjihvsoqiiqvjzbsrtsqspyqdjom-zrcqmb?sPyr,sfnvsorsdbhhsq
gijoabsvyqosQdtibesvybsMibqv,spyr,spjvysyjhsrposircqdsgbo,svrr serpo
vybspriehstirusRvybi,svybsOripbmjqospyqdb-ynovbisrtsvyrhbsvjubh!sQoe
pyrsgirornoabesrnismdrpjomsbndrmcsjosGqidjqubov?sPyr,sfnvsBeunoesFni b!

Vinbsbornmy,sfnvsvybospyqdbubosvybuhbdzbhsqibsgrrisebzjdh;svybcsyqzbsor
mrresfdrresjosvybjiszbjoh.

_Orsmrresfdrresjosvybjiszbjoh?_sVybcsyqzbshrubvyjomsfbvvbisvyqosircqd
fdrresvybib.sVybsmiqoeurvybisrtsFbokqujosTiqo djospqhsUqicsUriibd;
qtvbipqieh,sfcsuqiijqmb,sUqicsTrdmbi,srobsrtsvybsrdeshbvvdbihsrt
Oqovna bv,sqoesvybsqoabhvibhhsvrsqsdromsdjobsrtsTrdmbihsqoe
yqigrrobbih—qdds jvysqoes josvrsorfdbsFbokqujo—vyjhseqcseqivjomsvyb
fqifbesjirostirusrobshjebsrtsvybspridesvrsvybsrvybi.

Mrresqmqjo;sfnvsvybosqddsarotbhhsvyqvshrubyrpspyqdjomsjhsorv
ibhgbavqfdb.

_Pyqdjomsorvsibhgbavqfdb?_sPyqdjomsjhsjugbijqd!sFcsrdesBomdjhy
hvqvnvricsdqp,svybspyqdbsjhsebadqibes“qsircqdstjhy.”s*

Ry,svyqv’hsrodcsorujoqd!sVybspyqdbsyjuhbdtsyqhsobzbistjmnibesjosqoc
miqoesjugrhjomspqc.

_Vybspyqdbsobzbistjmnibesjosqocsmiqoesjugrhjomspqc?_sJosrobsrtsvyb
ujmyvcsvijnugyhsmjzbosvrsqsIruqosmbobiqdsngrosyjhsbovbijomsvybspride’h
aqgjvqd,svybsfrobhsrtsqspyqdb,sfirnmyvsqddsvybspqcstirusvybsHcijqo
arqhv,spbibsvybsurhvsarohgjanrnhsrfkbavsjosvybsacufqddbesgirabhhjro.*

*Hbbshnfhblnbovsayqgvbihstrishrubvyjomsuribsrosvyjhsybqe.

Miqovsjv,shjoabscrnsajvbsjv;sfnv,shqcspyqvscrnspjdd,svybibsjhsorsibqd
ejmojvcsjospyqdjom.

_Orsejmojvcsjospyqdjom?_sVybsejmojvcsrtsrnisaqddjomsvybszbicsybqzboh
qvvbhv.sAbvnhsjhsqsarohvbddqvjrosjosvybsHrnvy!sOrsurib!sEijzbserposcrni
yqvsjosgibhboabsrtsvybsAwqi,sqoesvq bsjvsrttsvrsLnbblnbm!sOrsurib!sJ
 orpsqsuqosvyqv,sjosyjhsdjtbvjub,syqhsvq bosvyibbsynoeibesqoestjtvc
pyqdbh.sJsqaarnovsvyqvsuqosuribsyroriqfdbsvyqosvyqvsmibqvsaqgvqjosrt
qovjlnjvcspyrsfrqhvbesrtsvq jomsqhsuqocspqddbesvrpoh.

Qoe,sqhstrisub,sjt,sfcsqocsgrhhjfjdjvc,svybibsfbsqocsqhscbv
noejharzbibesgijubsvyjomsjosub;sjtsJshyqddsbzbisebhbizbsqocsibqdsibgnvb
josvyqvshuqddsfnvsyjmysynhybespridespyjaysJsujmyvsorvsfbsnoibqhroqfdc
qufjvjrnhsrt;sjtsybibqtvbisJshyqddsersqocvyjomsvyqv,sngrosvybspyrdb,sq
uqosujmyvsiqvybisyqzbserobsvyqosvrsyqzbsdbtvsnoerob;sjt,sqvsucsebqvy,
ucsbxbanvrih,srisuribsgirgbidcsucsaibejvrih,stjoesqocsgibajrnhsUHH.sjo
ucsebh ,svybosybibsJsgirhgbavjzbdcsqhaijfbsqddsvybsyrorisqoesvybsmdric
vrspyqdjom;strisqspyqdb-hyjgspqhsucsCqdbsArddbmbsqoesucsYqizqie.


AYQGVBIs25.sGrhvhaijgv.

Josfbyqdtsrtsvybsejmojvcsrtspyqdjom,sJsprndestqjosqezqoabsoqnmyvsfnv
hnfhvqovjqvbestqavh.sFnvsqtvbisbufqvvdjomsyjhstqavh,sqosqezraqvbspyr
hyrndespyrddcshnggibhhsqsorvsnoibqhroqfdbshniujhb,spyjaysujmyvsvbdd
bdrlnbovdcsngrosyjhsaqnhb—hnaysqosqezraqvb,sprndesybsorvsfb
fdqubprivyc?

Jvsjhspbdds orposvyqvsqvsvybsariroqvjrosrts jomhsqoeslnbboh,sbzbo
urebiosrobh,sqsabivqjosanijrnhsgirabhhsrtshbqhrojomsvybustrisvybji
tnoavjrohsjhsmrobsvyirnmy.sVybibsjhsqshqdvabddqisrtshvqvb,shrsaqddbe,
qoesvybibsuqcsfbsqsaqhvrisrtshvqvb.sYrpsvybcsnhbsvybshqdv,
gibajhbdc—pyrs orph?sAbivqjosJsqu,syrpbzbi,svyqvsqs jom’hsybqesjh
hrdbuodcsrjdbesqvsyjhsariroqvjro,sbzbosqhsqsybqesrtshqdqe.sAqosjvsfb,
vyrnmy,svyqvsvybcsqorjovsjvspjvysqszjbpsrtsuq jomsjvhsjovbijrisino
pbdd,sqhsvybcsqorjovsuqayjobic?sUnaysujmyvsfbsinujoqvbesybib,
aroabiojomsvybsbhhbovjqdsejmojvcsrtsvyjhsibmqdsgirabhh,sfbaqnhbsjo
aruurosdjtbspbsbhvbbusfnvsubqodcsqoesarovbugvjfdcsqstbddrpspyrsqorjovh
yjhsyqji,sqoesgqdgqfdcshubddhsrtsvyqvsqorjovjom.sJosvinvy,sqsuqvnibsuqo
pyrsnhbhsyqji-rjd,snodbhhsubejajoqddc,svyqvsuqosyqhsgirfqfdcsmrvsq
lnrmmcshgrvsjosyjushrubpybib.sQhsqsmbobiqdsindb,sybsaqo’vsqurnovsvr
unaysjosyjhsvrvqdjvc.

Fnvsvybsrodcsvyjomsvrsfbsarohjebibesybib,sjhsvyjh—pyqvs joesrtsrjdsjh
nhbesqvsariroqvjroh?sAbivqjodcsjvsaqoorvsfbsrdjzbsrjd,sorisuqaqhhqi
rjd,sorisaqhvrisrjd,sorisfbqi’hsrjd,sorisviqjosrjd,sorisare-djzbisrjd.
Pyqvsvybosaqosjvsgrhhjfdcsfb,sfnvshgbiusrjdsjosjvhsnouqontqavnibe,
nogrddnvbeshvqvb,svybshpbbvbhvsrtsqddsrjdh?

Vyjo srtsvyqv,scbsdrcqdsFijvroh!spbspyqdbuboshnggdcscrnis jomhsqoe
lnbbohspjvysariroqvjroshvntt!


AYQGVBIs26.s ojmyvhsqoesHlnjibh.

VybsayjbtsuqvbsrtsvybsGblnrespqhsHvqifna ,sqsoqvjzbsrtsOqovna bv,sqoesq
Lnq bisfcsebhabov.sYbspqhsqsdrom,sbqiobhvsuqo,sqoesvyrnmysfriosrosqo
jacsarqhv,shbbubespbddsqeqgvbesvrsboenibsyrvsdqvjvnebh,syjhstdbhysfbjom
yqiesqhsvpjab-fq besfjhanjv.sViqohgrivbesvrsvybsJoejbh,syjhsdjzbsfdrre
prndesorvshgrjdsdj bsfrvvdbesqdb.sYbsunhvsyqzbsfbbosfriosjoshrubsvjub
rtsmbobiqdseirnmyvsqoestqujob,srisngrosrobsrtsvyrhbstqhvseqchstrispyjay
yjhshvqvbsjhstqurnh.sRodcshrubsvyjivcsqijeshnuubihsyqesybshbbo;svyrhb
hnuubihsyqeseijbesngsqddsyjhsgychjaqdshngbitdnrnhobhh.sFnvsvyjh,syjh
vyjoobhh,shrsvrshgbq ,shbbubesorsuribsvybsvr bosrtspqhvjomsqoxjbvjbh
qoesaqibh,svyqosjvshbbubesvybsjoejaqvjrosrtsqocsfrejdcsfdjmyv.sJvspqh
ubibdcsvybsaroebohqvjrosrtsvybsuqo.sYbspqhsfcsorsubqohsjdd-drr jom;
lnjvbsvybsaroviqic.sYjhsgnibsvjmyvsh jospqhsqosbxabddbovstjv;sqoe
adrhbdcspiqggbesngsjosjv,sqoesbufqdubespjvysjoobisybqdvysqoeshvibomvy,
dj bsqsibzjzjtjbesBmcgvjqo,svyjhsHvqifna shbbubesgibgqibesvrsboenibstri
dromsqmbhsvrsarub,sqoesvrsboenibsqdpqch,sqhsorp;strisfbsjvsGrdqishorp
risvriijeshno,sdj bsqsgqvbovsayirorubvbi,syjhsjovbijriszjvqdjvcspqh
pqiiqovbesvrserspbddsjosqddsadjuqvbh.sDrr jomsjovrsyjhsbcbh,scrnshbbube
vrshbbsvybibsvybscbvsdjombijomsjuqmbhsrtsvyrhbsvyrnhqoe-trdesgbijdhsyb
yqesaqdudcsarotirovbesvyirnmysdjtb.sQshvqje,shvbqetqhvsuqo,spyrhbsdjtb
trisvybsurhvsgqivspqhsqsvbddjomsgqovrujubsrtsqavjro,sqoesorvsqsvqub
ayqgvbisrtshrnoeh.sCbv,strisqddsyjhsyqiecshrfijbvcsqoestrivjvneb,svybib
pbibsabivqjoslnqdjvjbhsjosyjuspyjaysqvsvjubhsqttbavbe,sqoesjoshrub
aqhbhshbbubespbddsojmysvrsrzbifqdqoabsqddsvybsibhv.sNoaruurodc
arohajbovjrnhstrisqshbquqo,sqoesboenbespjvysqsebbgsoqvniqdsibzbiboab,
vybspjdespqvbicsdrobdjobhhsrtsyjhsdjtbsejesvybibtribshviromdcsjoadjob
yjusvrshngbihvjvjro;sfnvsvrsvyqvshrivsrtshngbihvjvjro,spyjaysjoshrub
rimqojwqvjrohshbbuhsiqvybisvrshgijom,shrubyrp,stirusjovbddjmboabsvyqo
tirusjmoriqoab.sRnvpqiesgrivbovhsqoesjopqiesgibhbovjubovhspbibsyjh.sQoe
jtsqvsvjubhsvybhbsvyjomhsfbovsvybspbdebesjirosrtsyjhshrnd,sunaysurib
ejesyjhstqi-qpqcserubhvjasuburijbhsrtsyjhscrnomsAqgbspjtbsqoesayjde,
vboesvrsfboesyjushvjddsuribstirusvybsrijmjoqdsinmmbeobhhsrtsyjhsoqvnib,
qoesrgbosyjushvjddstnivybisvrsvyrhbsdqvbovsjotdnboabhspyjay,sjoshrub
yrobhv-ybqivbesubo,sibhviqjosvybsmnhysrtseqib-ebzjdseqijom,shrsrtvbo
bzjoabesfcsrvybihsjosvybsuribsgbijdrnhszjajhhjvnebhsrtsvybstjhybic.s“J
pjddsyqzbsorsuqosjosucsfrqv,”shqjesHvqifna ,s“pyrsjhsorvsqtiqjesrtsq
pyqdb.”sFcsvyjh,sybshbbubesvrsubqo,sorvsrodcsvyqvsvybsurhvsibdjqfdbsqoe
nhbtndsarniqmbspqhsvyqvspyjaysqijhbhstirusvybstqjisbhvjuqvjrosrtsvyb
boarnovbibesgbijd,sfnvsvyqvsqosnvvbidcstbqidbhhsuqosjhsqstqisurib
eqombirnhsaruiqebsvyqosqsarpqie.

“Qcb,sqcb,”shqjesHvnff,svybshbaroesuqvb,s“Hvqifna ,svybib,sjhsqh
aqibtndsqsuqosqhscrn’ddstjoesqocpybibsjosvyjhstjhybic.”sFnvspbshyqdd
bibsdromshbbspyqvsvyqvspries“aqibtnd”sgibajhbdcsubqohspybosnhbesfcsq
uqosdj bsHvnff,srisqdurhvsqocsrvybispyqdbsynovbi.

Hvqifna spqhsorsainhqebisqtvbisgbijdh;sjosyjusarniqmbspqhsorvsq
hbovjubov;sfnvsqsvyjomshjugdcsnhbtndsvrsyju,sqoesqdpqchsqvsyqoesngro
qddsurivqddcsgiqavjaqdsraaqhjroh.sFbhjebh,sybsvyrnmyv,sgbiyqgh,svyqvsjo
vyjhsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom,sarniqmbspqhsrobsrtsvybsmibqvshvqgdbsrnvtjvh
rtsvybshyjg,sdj bsybisfbbtsqoesybisfibqe,sqoesorvsvrsfbstrrdjhydc
pqhvbe.sPybibtribsybsyqesorstqoacstrisdrpbijomstrispyqdbhsqtvbi
hno-erpo;soristrisgbihjhvjomsjostjmyvjomsqstjhysvyqvsvrrsunaysgbihjhvbe
jostjmyvjomsyju.sTri,svyrnmyvsHvqifna ,sJsqusybibsjosvyjhsaijvjaqd
rabqosvrs jddspyqdbhstrisucsdjzjom,sqoesorvsvrsfbs jddbesfcsvybustri
vybjih;sqoesvyqvsynoeibehsrtsubosyqesfbboshrs jddbesHvqifna spbdds obp.
Pyqvserruspqhsyjhsrpostqvybi’h?sPybib,sjosvybsfrvvrudbhhsebbgh,sarnde
ybstjoesvybsvriosdjufhsrtsyjhsfirvybi?

Pjvysuburijbhsdj bsvybhbsjosyju,sqoe,suribrzbi,smjzbosvrsqsabivqjo
hngbihvjvjrnhobhh,sqhsyqhsfbboshqje;svybsarniqmbsrtsvyjhsHvqifna spyjay
arnde,sobzbivybdbhh,shvjddstdrnijhy,sunhvsjoebbesyqzbsfbbosbxvibub.sFnv
jvspqhsorvsjosibqhroqfdbsoqvnibsvyqvsqsuqoshrsrimqojwbe,sqoespjvyshnay
vbiijfdbsbxgbijboabhsqoesibubufiqoabhsqhsybsyqe;sjvspqhsorvsjosoqvnib
vyqvsvybhbsvyjomhshyrndestqjdsjosdqvbovdcsbomboebijomsqosbdbubovsjo
yju,spyjay,snoebishnjvqfdbsajianuhvqoabh,sprndesfibq srnvstirusjvh
arotjobubov,sqoesfniosqddsyjhsarniqmbsng.sQoesfiqzbsqhsybsujmyvsfb,sjv
pqhsvyqvshrivsrtsfiqzbicsayjbtdc,szjhjfdbsjoshrubsjovibgjesubo,spyjay,
pyjdbsmbobiqddcsqfjejomstjiusjosvybsarotdjavspjvyshbqh,srispjoeh,sri
pyqdbh,srisqocsrtsvybsriejoqicsjiiqvjroqdsyriirihsrtsvybspride,scbv
aqoorvspjvyhvqoesvyrhbsuribsvbiijtja,sfbaqnhbsuribshgjijvnqdsvbiirih,
pyjayshrubvjubhsuboqabscrnstirusvybsaroaboviqvjomsfirpsrtsqosboiqmbe
qoesujmyvcsuqo.

Fnvspbibsvybsarujomsoqiiqvjzbsvrsibzbqdsjosqocsjohvqoab,svybsarugdbvb
qfqhbubovsrtsgrrisHvqifna ’hstrivjvneb,shaqiabsujmyvsJsyqzbsvybsybqiv
vrspijvbsjv;strisjvsjhsqsvyjomsurhvshriirptnd,soqcshyra jom,svrsbxgrhb
vybstqddsrtszqdrnisjosvybshrnd.sUbosuqcshbbusebvbhvqfdbsqhskrjov
hvra -arugqojbhsqoesoqvjroh;s oqzbh,strrdh,sqoesuniebibihsvybibsuqcsfb;
ubosuqcsyqzbsubqosqoesubqmibstqabh;sfnvsuqo,sjosvybsjebqd,sjhshrsorfdb
qoeshrshgqi djom,shnaysqsmiqoesqoesmdrpjomsaibqvnib,svyqvsrzbisqoc
jmorujojrnhsfdbujhysjosyjusqddsyjhstbddrphshyrndesinosvrsvyirpsvybji
arhvdjbhvsirfbh.sVyqvsjuuqandqvbsuqodjobhhspbstbbdspjvyjosrnihbdzbh,shr
tqispjvyjosnh,svyqvsjvsibuqjohsjovqavsvyrnmysqddsvybsrnvbisayqiqavbi
hbbusmrob;sfdbbehspjvys bbobhvsqomnjhysqvsvybsnoeiqgbeshgbavqadbsrtsq
zqdri-injobesuqo.sOrisaqosgjbvcsjvhbdt,sqvshnaysqshyqubtndshjmyv,
arugdbvbdcshvjtdbsybisngfiqjejomhsqmqjohvsvybsgbiujvvjomshvqih.sFnv
vyjhsqnmnhvsejmojvcsJsvibqvsrt,sjhsorvsvybsejmojvcsrts jomhsqoesirfbh,
fnvsvyqvsqfrnoejomsejmojvcspyjaysyqhsorsirfbesjozbhvjvnib.sVyrnshyqdv
hbbsjvshyjojomsjosvybsqiusvyqvspjbdehsqsgja sriseijzbhsqshgj b;svyqv
eburaiqvjasejmojvcspyjay,srosqddsyqoeh,siqejqvbhspjvyrnvsboestirusMre;
Yjuhbdt!sVybsmibqvsMresqfhrdnvb!sVybsabovibsqoesajianutbiboabsrtsqdd
eburaiqac!sYjhsruojgibhboab,srnisejzjobsblnqdjvc!

Jt,svybo,svrsubqobhvsuqijobih,sqoesibobmqebhsqoesaqhvqpqch,sJshyqdd
ybibqtvbisqhaijfbsyjmyslnqdjvjbh,svyrnmyseqi ;spbqzbsirnoesvybusviqmja
miqabh;sjtsbzbosvybsurhvsurniotnd,sgbiayqoabsvybsurhvsqfqhbe,squrom
vybusqdd,shyqddsqvsvjubhsdjtvsyjuhbdtsvrsvybsbxqdvbesurnovh;sjtsJshyqdd
vrnaysvyqvspri uqo’hsqiuspjvyshrubsbvybibqdsdjmyv;sjtsJshyqddshgibqesq
iqjofrpsrzbisyjhsejhqhvirnhshbvsrtshno;svybosqmqjohvsqddsurivqdsaijvjah
fbqisubsrnvsjosjv,svyrnsknhvsHgjijvsrtsBlnqdjvc,spyjaysyqhvshgibqesrob
ircqdsuqovdbsrtsynuqojvcsrzbisqddsucs joe!sFbqisubsrnvsjosjv,svyrn
mibqvseburaiqvjasMre!spyrsejehvsorvsibtnhbsvrsvybshpqivsarozjav,
Fnocqo,svybsgqdb,sgrbvjasgbqid;sVyrnspyrsejehvsadrvybspjvysernfdc
yquubibesdbqzbhsrtstjobhvsmrde,svybshvnugbesqoesgqngbibesqiusrtsrde
Abizqovbh;sVyrnspyrsejehvsgja sngsQoeibpsKqa hrostirusvybsgbffdbh;spyr
ejehvsynidsyjusngrosqspqi-yrihb;spyrsejehvsvynoebisyjusyjmybisvyqosq
vyirob!sVyrnspyr,sjosqddsVycsujmyvc,sbqivydcsuqiayjomh,sbzbisanddbhv
Vycshbdbavbhvsayqugjrohstirusvybs jomdcsaruuroh;sfbqisubsrnvsjosjv,sR
Mre!


AYQGVBIs27.s ojmyvhsqoesHlnjibh.

Hvnffspqhsvybshbaroesuqvb.sYbspqhsqsoqvjzbsrtsAqgbsAre;sqoesyboab,
qaariejomsvrsdraqdsnhqmb,spqhsaqddbesqsAqgb-Are-uqo.sQsyqggc-mr-dna c;
objvybisaiqzbosoriszqdjqov;svq jomsgbijdhsqhsvybcsaqubspjvysqo
joejttbibovsqji;sqoespyjdbsbomqmbesjosvybsurhvsjuujobovsaijhjhsrtsvyb
ayqhb,svrjdjomsqpqc,saqdusqoesarddbavbesqhsqskrniobcuqoskrjobisbomqmbe
trisvybscbqi.sMrre-ynuribe,sbqhc,sqoesaqibdbhh,sybsgibhjebesrzbisyjh
pyqdb-frqvsqhsjtsvybsurhvsebqedcsboarnovbispbibsfnvsqsejoobi,sqoesyjh
aibpsqddsjozjvbesmnbhvh.sYbspqhsqhsgqivjandqisqfrnvsvybsarutrivqfdb
qiiqombubovsrtsyjhsgqivsrtsvybsfrqv,sqhsqosrdeshvqmb-eijzbisjhsqfrnv
vybshonmobhhsrtsyjhsfrx.sPybosadrhbsvrsvybspyqdb,sjosvybszbic
ebqvy-dra srtsvybstjmyv,sybsyqoedbesyjhsnogjvcjomsdqoabsarrddcsqoe
rtt-yqoebedc,sqhsqspyjhvdjomsvjo bisyjhsyquubi.sYbsprndesynusrzbisyjh
rdesijmqejmsvnobhspyjdbstdqo sqoestdqo spjvysvybsurhvsbxqhgbiqvbe
urohvbi.sDromsnhqmbsyqe,strisvyjhsHvnff,sarozbivbesvybskqphsrtsebqvy
jovrsqosbqhcsayqji.sPyqvsybsvyrnmyvsrtsebqvysjvhbdt,svybibsjhsor
vbddjom.sPybvybisybsbzbisvyrnmyvsrtsjvsqvsqdd,sujmyvsfbsqslnbhvjro;
fnv,sjtsybsbzbisejesayqoabsvrsaqhvsyjhsujoesvyqvspqcsqtvbisq
arutrivqfdbsejoobi,sorsernfv,sdj bsqsmrreshqjdri,sybsvrr sjvsvrsfbsq
hrivsrtsaqddsrtsvybspqvaysvrsvnufdbsqdrtv,sqoesfbhvjisvybuhbdzbhsvybib,
qfrnvshrubvyjomspyjaysybsprndestjoesrnvspybosybsrfbcbesvybsriebi,sqoe
orvshrrobi.

Pyqv,sgbiyqgh,spjvysrvybisvyjomh,suqebsHvnffshnaysqosbqhc-mrjom,
notbqijomsuqo,shrsaybbijdcsvinemjomsrttspjvysvybsfniebosrtsdjtbsjosq
pridestnddsrtsmiqzbsgbedqih,sqddsfrpbesvrsvybsmirnoespjvysvybjisgqa h;
pyqvsybdgbesvrsfijomsqfrnvsvyqvsqdurhvsjugjrnhsmrre-ynurisrtsyjh;svyqv
vyjomsunhvsyqzbsfbbosyjhsgjgb.sTri,sdj bsyjhsorhb,syjhshyriv,sfdqa 
djvvdbsgjgbspqhsrobsrtsvybsibmndqistbqvnibhsrtsyjhstqab.sCrnsprnde
qdurhvsqhshrrosyqzbsbxgbavbesyjusvrsvniosrnvsrtsyjhsfno spjvyrnvsyjh
orhbsqhspjvyrnvsyjhsgjgb.sYbs bgvsqspyrdbsirpsrtsgjgbhsvybibsibqec
drqebe,shvna sjosqsiqa ,spjvyjosbqhcsibqaysrtsyjhsyqoe;sqoe,spybobzbi
ybsvniobesjo,sybshur besvybusqddsrnvsjoshnaabhhjro,sdjmyvjomsrobstiru
vybsrvybisvrsvybsboesrtsvybsayqgvbi;svybosdrqejomsvybusqmqjosvrsfbsjo
ibqejobhhsqobp.sTri,spybosHvnffseibhhbe,sjohvbqesrtstjihvsgnvvjomsyjh
dbmhsjovrsyjhsvirphbih,sybsgnvsyjhsgjgbsjovrsyjhsurnvy.

Jshqcsvyjhsarovjonqdshur jomsunhvsyqzbsfbbosrobsaqnhb,sqvsdbqhv,srtsyjh
gbandjqisejhgrhjvjro;strisbzbicsrobs orphsvyqvsvyjhsbqivydcsqji,
pybvybisqhyribsrisqtdrqv,sjhsvbiijfdcsjotbavbespjvysvybsoqubdbhh
ujhbijbhsrtsvybsonufbidbhhsurivqdhspyrsyqzbsejbesbxyqdjomsjv;sqoesqhsjo
vjubsrtsvybsayrdbiq,shrubsgbrgdbsmrsqfrnvspjvysqsaqugyriqvbe
yqoe biayjbtsvrsvybjisurnvyh;shr,sdj bpjhb,sqmqjohvsqddsurivqd
vijfndqvjroh,sHvnff’hsvrfqaarshur bsujmyvsyqzbsrgbiqvbesqhsqshrivsrt
ejhjotbavjomsqmbov.

VybsvyjiesuqvbspqhsTdqh ,sqsoqvjzbsrtsVjhfnic,sjosUqivyq’hsZjobcqie.sQ
hyriv,shvrnv,sineecscrnomstbddrp,szbicsgnmoqajrnhsaroabiojomspyqdbh,
pyrshrubyrpshbbubesvrsvyjo svyqvsvybsmibqvsdbzjqvyqohsyqesgbihroqddc
qoesybibejvqijdcsqttirovbesyju;sqoesvybibtribsjvspqhsqshrivsrtsgrjovsrt
yrorispjvysyju,svrsebhvircsvybuspybobzbisboarnovbibe.sHrsnvvbidcsdrhv
pqhsybsvrsqddshbohbsrtsibzbiboabstrisvybsuqocsuqizbdhsrtsvybjisuqkbhvja
fnd sqoesuchvjaspqch;sqoeshrsebqesvrsqocvyjomsdj bsqosqggibybohjrosrt
qocsgrhhjfdbseqombistirusboarnovbijomsvybu;svyqvsjosyjhsgrrisrgjojro,
vybsproeirnhspyqdbspqhsfnvsqshgbajbhsrtsuqmojtjbesurnhb,srisqvsdbqhv
pqvbi-iqv,siblnjijomsrodcsqsdjvvdbsajianuzbovjrosqoeshrubshuqdd
qggdjaqvjrosrtsvjubsqoesvirnfdbsjosriebisvrs jddsqoesfrjd.sVyjh
jmoriqov,snoarohajrnhstbqidbhhobhhsrtsyjhsuqebsyjusqsdjvvdbspqmmjhysjo
vybsuqvvbisrtspyqdbh;sybstrddrpbesvybhbstjhystrisvybstnosrtsjv;sqoesq
vyibbscbqih’szrcqmbsirnoesAqgbsYriospqhsrodcsqskrddcskr bsvyqvsdqhvbe
vyqvsdbomvysrtsvjub.sQhsqsaqigbovbi’hsoqjdhsqibsejzjebesjovrspirnmyv
oqjdhsqoesanvsoqjdh;shrsuqo joesuqcsfbshjujdqidcsejzjebe.sDjvvdbsTdqh 
pqhsrobsrtsvybspirnmyvsrobh;suqebsvrsadjoaysvjmyvsqoesdqhvsdrom.sVybc
aqddbesyjus jom-GrhvsrosfrqiesrtsvybsGblnre;sfbaqnhb,sjostriu,sybsarnde
fbspbddsdj bobesvrsvybshyriv,shlnqibsvjufbis orposfcsvyqvsoqubsjo
Qiavjaspyqdbih;sqoespyjaysfcsvybsubqohsrtsuqocsiqejqvjomshjebsvjufbih
johbivbesjovrsjv,shbizbhsvrsfiqabsvybshyjgsqmqjohvsvybsjacsaroanhhjroh
rtsvyrhbsfqvvbijomshbqh.

Orpsvybhbsvyibbsuqvbh—Hvqifna ,sHvnff,sqoesTdqh ,spbibsurubovrnhsubo.
Vybcsjvspqhspyrsfcsnojzbihqdsgibhaijgvjrosaruuqoebesvyibbsrtsvyb
Gblnre’hsfrqvhsqhsybqehubo.sJosvyqvsmiqoesriebisrtsfqvvdbsjospyjay
AqgvqjosQyqfsprndesgirfqfdcsuqihyqdsyjhstriabhsvrsebhaboesrosvyb
pyqdbh,svybhbsvyibbsybqehubospbibsqhsaqgvqjohsrtsarugqojbh.sRi,sfbjom
qiubespjvysvybjisdroms bbospyqdjomshgbqih,svybcspbibsqhsqsgja besvijr
rtsdqoabih;sbzbosqhsvybsyqigrrobbihspbibstdjombihsrtskqzbdjoh.

Qoeshjoabsjosvyjhstqurnhstjhybic,sbqaysuqvbsrisybqehuqo,sdj bsqsMrvyja
 ojmyvsrtsrde,sjhsqdpqchsqaarugqojbesfcsyjhsfrqv-hvbbibisrisyqigrrobbi,
pyrsjosabivqjosaroknoavnibhsgirzjebhsyjuspjvysqstibhysdqoab,spybosvyb
triubisrobsyqhsfbbosfqedcsvpjhvbe,srisbdfrpbesjosvybsqhhqndv;sqoe
uribrzbi,sqhsvybibsmbobiqddcshnfhjhvhsfbvpbbosvybsvpr,sqsadrhbsjovjuqac
qoestijboedjobhh;sjvsjhsvybibtribsfnvsubbv,svyqvsjosvyjhsgdqabspbshbv
erpospyrsvybsGblnre’hsyqigrrobbihspbib,sqoesvrspyqvsybqehuqosbqaysrt
vybusfbdrombe.

TjihvsrtsqddspqhsLnbblnbm,spyrusHvqifna ,svybsayjbtsuqvb,syqeshbdbavbe
trisyjhshlnjib.sFnvsLnbblnbmsjhsqdibqecs orpo.

ObxvspqhsVqhyvbmr,sqosnoujxbesJoejqostirusMqcsYbqe,svybsurhvspbhvbidc
girurovricsrtsUqivyq’hsZjobcqie,spybibsvybibshvjddsbxjhvhsvybsdqhv
ibuoqovsrtsqszjddqmbsrtsibesubo,spyjaysyqhsdromshnggdjbesvyb
objmyfrijomsjhdqoesrtsOqovna bvspjvysuqocsrtsybisurhvseqijom
yqigrrobbih.sJosvybstjhybic,svybcsnhnqddcsmrsfcsvybsmbobijasoqubsrt
Mqc-Ybqebih.sVqhyvbmr’hsdrom,sdbqo,shqfdbsyqji,syjhsyjmysaybb sfrobh,
qoesfdqa sirnoejomsbcbh—trisqosJoejqo,sRijbovqdsjosvybjisdqimbobhh,sfnv
Qovqiavjasjosvybjismdjvvbijomsbxgibhhjro—qddsvyjhshnttjajbovdc
giradqjubesyjusqosjoybijvrisrtsvybsnozjvjqvbesfdrresrtsvyrhbsgirne
pqiijrisynovbih,spyr,sjoslnbhvsrtsvybsmibqvsObpsBomdqoesurrhb,syqe
harnibe,sfrpsjosyqoe,svybsqfrijmjoqdstribhvhsrtsvybsuqjo.sFnvsorsdrombi
honttjomsjosvybsviqjdsrtsvybspjdesfbqhvhsrtsvybsprredqoe,sVqhyvbmrsorp
ynovbesjosvybspq bsrtsvybsmibqvspyqdbhsrtsvybshbq;svybsnobiijomsyqigrro
rtsvybshrostjvdcsibgdqajomsvybsjotqddjfdbsqiirpsrtsvybshjibh.sVrsdrr 
qvsvybsvqpocsfiqposrtsyjhsdjvybshoq csdjufh,scrnsprndesqdurhvsyqzb
aibejvbesvybshngbihvjvjrohsrtshrubsrtsvybsbqidjbisGnijvqoh,sqoe
yqdt-fbdjbzbesvyjhspjdesJoejqosvrsfbsqshrosrtsvybsGijoabsrtsvybsGrpbih
rtsvybsQji.sVqhyvbmrspqhsHvnffsvybshbaroesuqvb’hshlnjib.

VyjiesquromsvybsyqigrrobbihspqhsEqmmrr,sqsmjmqovja,sarqd-fdqa 
obmir-hqzqmb,spjvysqsdjro-dj bsvibqe—qosQyqhnbinhsvrsfbyrde.sHnhgboebe
tirusyjhsbqihspbibsvprsmrdebosyrrgh,shrsdqimbsvyqvsvybshqjdrihsaqddbe
vybusijom-frdvh,sqoesprndesvqd srtshbanijomsvybsvrg-hqjdsyqdcqiehsvr
vybu.sJosyjhscrnvysEqmmrrsyqeszrdnovqijdcshyjggbesrosfrqiesrtsqspyqdbi,
dcjomsjosqsdrobdcsfqcsrosyjhsoqvjzbsarqhv.sQoesobzbisyqzjomsfbbo
qocpybibsjosvybspridesfnvsjosQtijaq,sOqovna bv,sqoesvybsgqmqosyqifrih
urhvstiblnbovbesfcspyqdbubo;sqoesyqzjomsorpsdbestrisuqocscbqihsvybsfrde
djtbsrtsvybstjhybicsjosvybshyjghsrtsrpobihsnoaruurodcsybbetndsrtspyqv
uqoobisrtsubosvybcshyjggbe;sEqmmrrsibvqjobesqddsyjhsfqifqijaszjivnbh,
qoesbibavsqhsqsmjiqttb,surzbesqfrnvsvybseba hsjosqddsvybsgrugsrtshjx
tbbvstjzbsjosyjhshra h.sVybibspqhsqsarigribqdsynujdjvcsjosdrr jomsngsqv
yju;sqoesqspyjvbsuqoshvqoejomsfbtribsyjushbbubesqspyjvbstdqmsarubsvr
fbmsvinabsrtsqstrivibhh.sAnijrnhsvrsvbdd,svyjhsjugbijqdsobmir,
QyqhnbinhsEqmmrr,spqhsvybsHlnjibsrtsdjvvdbsTdqh ,spyrsdrr besdj bsq
aybhh-uqosfbhjebsyju.sQhstrisvybsibhjenbsrtsvybsGblnre’hsarugqoc,sfbsjv
hqje,svyqvsqvsvybsgibhbovseqcsorvsrobsjosvprsrtsvybsuqocsvyrnhqoesubo
fbtribsvybsuqhvsbugdrcbesjosvybsQubijaqospyqdbstjhybic,sqibsQubijaqoh
frio,svyrnmysgibvvcsobqidcsqddsvybsrttjabihsqib.sYbibjosjvsjhsvybshqub
pjvysvybsQubijaqospyqdbstjhybicsqhspjvysvybsQubijaqosqiucsqoesujdjvqic
qoesubiayqovsoqzjbh,sqoesvybsbomjobbijomstriabhsbugdrcbesjosvyb
arohvinavjrosrtsvybsQubijaqosAqoqdhsqoesIqjdirqeh.sVybshqub,sJshqc,
fbaqnhbsjosqddsvybhbsaqhbhsvybsoqvjzbsQubijaqosdjfbiqddcsgirzjebhsvyb
fiqjoh,svybsibhvsrtsvybspridesqhsmbobirnhdcshnggdcjomsvybsunhadbh.sOr
huqddsonufbisrtsvybhbspyqdjomshbqubosfbdromsvrsvybsQwribh,spybibsvyb
rnvpqiesfrnoesOqovna bvspyqdbihstiblnbovdcsvrnaysvrsqnmubovsvybjisaibph
tirusvybsyqiecsgbqhqovhsrtsvyrhbsira cshyribh.sJosdj bsuqoobi,svyb
MibbodqoespyqdbihshqjdjomsrnvsrtsYnddsrisDroero,sgnvsjosqvsvybsHybvdqoe
Jhdqoeh,svrsibabjzbsvybstnddsarugdbubovsrtsvybjisaibp.sNgrosvybsgqhhqmb
yrubpqieh,svybcseirgsvybusvybibsqmqjo.sYrpsjvsjh,svybibsjhsorsvbddjom,
fnvsJhdqoebihshbbusvrsuq bsvybsfbhvspyqdbubo.sVybcspbibsobqidcsqdd
JhdqoebihsjosvybsGblnre,s_Jhrdqvrbh_svrr,sJsaqddshnay,sorv
qa orpdbemjomsvybsaruurosarovjobovsrtsubo,sfnvsbqays_Jhrdqvr_sdjzjomsro
qshbgqiqvbsarovjobovsrtsyjhsrpo.sCbvsorp,stbebiqvbesqdromsrobs bbd,
pyqvsqshbvsvybhbsJhrdqvrbhspbib!sQosQoqayqihjhsAdrrvwsebgnvqvjrostiru
qddsvybsjhdbhsrtsvybshbq,sqoesqddsvybsboehsrtsvybsbqivy,sqaarugqocjom
RdesQyqfsjosvybsGblnresvrsdqcsvybspride’hsmijbzqoabhsfbtribsvyqvsfqi
tiruspyjaysorvszbicsuqocsrtsvybusbzbisarubsfqa .sFdqa sDjvvdbsGjg—yb
obzbiseje—ry,sor!sybspbovsfbtrib.sGrrisQdqfquqsfrc!sRosvybsmiju
Gblnre’hstribaqhvdb,scbshyqddsbibsdromshbbsyju,sfbqvjomsyjhsvqufrnijob;
gibdnhjzbsrtsvybsbvbioqdsvjub,spyboshbovstri,svrsvybsmibqvslnqivbi-eba 
rosyjmy,sybspqhsfjeshvij bsjospjvysqombdh,sqoesfbqvsyjhsvqufrnijobsjo
mdric;saqddbesqsarpqiesybib,syqjdbesqsybirsvybib!


AYQGVBIs28.sQyqf.

TrishbzbiqdseqchsqtvbisdbqzjomsOqovna bv,sorvyjomsqfrzbsyqvaybhspqh
hbbosrtsAqgvqjosQyqf.sVybsuqvbhsibmndqidcsibdjbzbesbqaysrvybisqvsvyb
pqvaybh,sqoestrisqnmyvsvyqvsarndesfbshbbosvrsvybsaroviqic,svybcshbbube
vrsfbsvybsrodcsaruuqoebihsrtsvybshyjg;srodcsvybcshrubvjubhsjhhnbestiru
vybsaqfjospjvysriebihshrshneebosqoesgbibugvric,svyqvsqtvbisqddsjvspqh
gdqjosvybcsfnvsaruuqoebeszjaqijrnhdc.sCbh,svybjishngibubsdriesqoe
ejavqvrispqhsvybib,svyrnmysyjvybivrsnohbbosfcsqocsbcbhsorvsgbiujvvbesvr
gbobviqvbsjovrsvybsorpshqaibesibvibqvsrtsvybsaqfjo.

BzbicsvjubsJsqhaboebesvrsvybseba stirusucspqvaybhsfbdrp,sJsjohvqovdc
mqwbesqtvsvrsuqi sjtsqocshviqombstqabspbibszjhjfdb;strisucstjihvszqmnb
ejhlnjbvnebsvrnayjomsvybsno orposaqgvqjo,sorpsjosvybshbadnhjrosrtsvyb
hbq,sfbaqubsqdurhvsqsgbivnifqvjro.sVyjhspqhshviqombdcsybjmyvbobesqv
vjubhsfcsvybsiqmmbesBdjkqy’hsejqfrdjaqdsjoarybiboabhsnojozjvbedc
ibaniijomsvrsub,spjvysqshnfvdbsbobimcsJsarndesorvsyqzbsfbtribsaroabjzbe
rt.sFnvsgrridcsarndesJspjvyhvqoesvybu,sunaysqhsjosrvybisurrehsJspqh
qdurhvsibqecsvrshujdbsqvsvybshrdbuospyjuhjaqdjvjbhsrtsvyqvsrnvdqoejhy
girgybvsrtsvybspyqizbh.sFnvspyqvbzbisjvspqhsrtsqggibybohjzbobhhsri
nobqhjobhh—vrsaqddsjvshr—pyjaysJstbdv,scbvspybobzbisJsaqubsvrsdrr 
qfrnvsubsjosvybshyjg,sjvshbbubesqmqjohvsqddspqiiqovicsvrsaybijhyshnay
burvjroh.sTrisvyrnmysvybsyqigrrobbih,spjvysvybsmibqvsfrecsrtsvybsaibp,
pbibsqstqisuribsfqifqija,sybqvybojhy,sqoesurvdbcshbvsvyqosqocsrtsvyb
vqubsubiayqov-hyjgsarugqojbhspyjaysucsgibzjrnhsbxgbijboabhsyqesuqebsub
qalnqjovbespjvy,shvjddsJsqhaijfbesvyjh—qoesijmyvdcsqhaijfbesjv—vrsvyb
tjbiabsnojlnbobhhsrtsvybszbicsoqvnibsrtsvyqvspjdesHaqoejoqzjqoszraqvjro
jospyjaysJsyqeshrsqfqoerobedcsbufqi be.sFnvsjvspqhsbhgbajqddcsvyb
qhgbavsrtsvybsvyibbsayjbtsrttjabihsrtsvybshyjg,svybsuqvbh,spyjayspqh
urhvstriajfdcsaqdandqvbesvrsqddqcsvybhbsardrnidbhhsujhmjzjomh,sqoe
joenabsarotjeboabsqoesaybbitndobhhsjosbzbicsgibhbovubovsrtsvybszrcqmb.
Vyibbsfbvvbi,suribsdj bdcshbq-rttjabihsqoesubo,sbqaysjosyjhsrpo
ejttbibovspqc,sarndesorvsibqejdcsfbstrnoe,sqoesvybcspbibsbzbicsrobsrt
vybusQubijaqoh;sqsOqovna bvbi,sqsZjobcqiebi,sqsAqgbsuqo.sOrp,sjvsfbjom
Ayijhvuqhspybosvybshyjgshyrvstirusrnvsybisyqifri,strisqshgqabspbsyqe
fjvjomsGrdqispbqvybi,svyrnmysqddsvybsvjubsinoojomsqpqcstirusjvsvrsvyb
hrnvypqie;sqoesfcsbzbicsebmibbsqoesujonvbsrtsdqvjvnebspyjayspbshqjdbe,
miqenqddcsdbqzjomsvyqvsubiajdbhhspjovbi,sqoesqddsjvhsjovrdbiqfdb
pbqvybisfbyjoesnh.sJvspqhsrobsrtsvyrhbsdbhhsdrpbijom,sfnvshvjddsmibc
qoesmdrrucsbornmysuriojomhsrtsvybsviqohjvjro,spybospjvysqstqjispjoesvyb
hyjgspqhsinhyjomsvyirnmysvybspqvbispjvysqszjoejavjzbshrivsrtsdbqgjom
qoesubdqoayrdcsiqgjejvc,svyqvsqhsJsurnovbesvrsvybseba sqvsvybsaqddsrt
vybstriborrospqvay,shrshrrosqhsJsdbzbddbesucsmdqoabsvrpqiehsvyb
vqttiqjd,stribfrejomshyjzbihsiqosrzbisub.sIbqdjvcsrnviqosqggibybohjro;
AqgvqjosQyqfshvrresngrosyjhslnqivbi-eba .

Vybibshbbubesorshjmosrtsaruurosfrejdcsjddobhhsqfrnvsyju,sorisrtsvyb
ibarzbicstirusqoc.sYbsdrr besdj bsqsuqosanvsqpqcstirusvybshvq b,spybo
vybstjibsyqhsrzbiinoojomdcspqhvbesqddsvybsdjufhspjvyrnvsarohnujomsvybu,
risvq jomsqpqcsrobsgqivjadbstirusvybjisarugqavbesqmbesirfnhvobhh.sYjh
pyrdbsyjmy,sfirqestriu,shbbubesuqebsrtshrdjesfirowb,sqoeshyqgbesjosqo
noqdvbiqfdbsurnde,sdj bsAbddjoj’hsaqhvsGbihbnh.sVyibqejomsjvhspqcsrnv
tirusquromsyjhsmibcsyqjih,sqoesarovjonjomsijmyvserposrobshjebsrtsyjh
vqpocshariaybestqabsqoesoba ,svjddsjvsejhqggbqibesjosyjhsadrvyjom,scrn
hqpsqshdboebisire-dj bsuqi ,sdjzjedcspyjvjhy.sJvsibhbufdbesvyqv
gbigboejandqishbqushrubvjubhsuqebsjosvybshviqjmyv,sdrtvcsvino srtsq
mibqvsvibb,spybosvybsnggbisdjmyvojomsvbqijomdcseqivhserposjv,sqoe
pjvyrnvspiboayjomsqshjomdbsvpjm,sgbbdhsqoesmirrzbhsrnvsvybsfqi stiru
vrgsvrsfrvvru,sbibsinoojomsrttsjovrsvybshrjd,sdbqzjomsvybsvibbshvjdd
mibbodcsqdjzb,sfnvsfiqoebe.sPybvybisvyqvsuqi spqhsfriospjvysyju,sri
pybvybisjvspqhsvybshaqisdbtvsfcshrubsebhgbiqvbsprnoe,sorsrobsarnde
abivqjodcshqc.sFcshrubsvqajvsarohbov,svyirnmyrnvsvybszrcqmbsdjvvdbsri
orsqddnhjrospqhsuqebsvrsjv,sbhgbajqddcsfcsvybsuqvbh.sFnvsroab
Vqhyvbmr’hshbojri,sqosrdesMqc-YbqesJoejqosquromsvybsaibp,
hngbihvjvjrnhdcsqhhbivbesvyqvsorvsvjddsybspqhstnddstrivcscbqihsrdeseje
Qyqfsfbarubsvyqvspqcsfiqoebe,sqoesvybosjvsaqubsngrosyju,sorvsjosvyb
tnicsrtsqocsurivqdstiqc,sfnvsjosqosbdbubovqdshvijtbsqvshbq.sCbv,svyjh
pjdesyjovshbbubesjotbibovjqddcsobmqvjzbe,sfcspyqvsqsmibcsUqoxuqo
johjonqvbe,sqosrdeshbgndayiqdsuqo,spyr,syqzjomsobzbisfbtribshqjdbesrnv
rtsOqovna bv,syqesobzbisbibsvyjhsdqjesbcbsngrospjdesQyqf.sObzbivybdbhh,
vybsrdeshbq-viqejvjroh,svybsjuuburijqdsaibendjvjbh,sgrgndqidcsjozbhvbe
vyjhsrdesUqoxuqospjvysgibvbioqvniqdsgrpbihsrtsejhabioubov.sHrsvyqvsor
pyjvbshqjdrishbijrnhdcsaroviqejavbesyjuspybosybshqjesvyqvsjtsbzbi
AqgvqjosQyqfshyrndesfbsviqolnjddcsdqjesrnv—pyjaysujmyvsyqiedcsarubsvr
gqhh,shrsybsunvvbibe—vybo,spyrbzbishyrndesersvyqvsdqhvsrttjabstrisvyb
ebqe,sprndestjoesqsfjivy-uqi srosyjustirusairposvrshrdb.

HrsgrpbitnddcsejesvybspyrdbsmijusqhgbavsrtsQyqfsqttbavsub,sqoesvyb
djzjesfiqoespyjayshvibq besjv,svyqvstrisvybstjihvstbpsurubovhsJsyqiedc
orvbesvyqvsorvsqsdjvvdbsrtsvyjhsrzbifbqijomsmijuobhhspqhsrpjomsvrsvyb
fqifqijaspyjvbsdbmsngrospyjaysybsgqivdcshvrre.sJvsyqesgibzjrnhdcsarub
vrsubsvyqvsvyjhsjzricsdbmsyqesqvshbqsfbbostqhyjrobestirusvybsgrdjhybe
frobsrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hskqp.s“Qcb,sybspqhsejhuqhvbesrttsKqgqo,”shqje
vybsrdesMqc-YbqesJoejqosroab;s“fnvsdj bsyjhsejhuqhvbesaiqtv,sybshyjggbe
qorvybisuqhvspjvyrnvsarujomsyrubstrisjv.sYbsyqhsqslnjzbisrts’bu.”

Jspqhshvina spjvysvybshjomndqisgrhvnibsybsuqjovqjobe.sNgrosbqayshjebsrt
vybsGblnre’hslnqivbiseba ,sqoesgibvvcsadrhbsvrsvybsujwwboshyirneh,
vybibspqhsqosqnmbisyrdb,sfribesqfrnvsyqdtsqosjoaysrishr,sjovrsvyb
gdqo .sYjhsfrobsdbmshvbqejbesjosvyqvsyrdb;srobsqiusbdbzqvbe,sqoe
yrdejomsfcsqshyirne;sAqgvqjosQyqfshvrresbibav,sdrr jomshviqjmyvsrnv
fbcroesvybshyjg’hsbzbi-gjvayjomsgirp.sVybibspqhsqosjotjojvcsrtstjiubhv
trivjvneb,sqsebvbiujoqvb,snohniiboebiqfdbspjdtndobhh,sjosvybstjxbesqoe
tbqidbhh,stripqiesebejaqvjrosrtsvyqvsmdqoab.sOrvsqspriesybshgr b;sori
ejesyjhsrttjabihshqcsqnmyvsvrsyju;svyrnmysfcsqddsvybjisujonvbhv
mbhvnibhsqoesbxgibhhjroh,svybcsgdqjodcshyrpbesvybsnobqhc,sjtsorv
gqjotnd,sarohajrnhobhhsrtsfbjomsnoebisqsvirnfdbesuqhvbi-bcb.sQoesorv
rodcsvyqv,sfnvsurrecshvija bosQyqfshvrresfbtribsvybuspjvysqsainajtjxjro
josyjhstqab;sjosqddsvybsoqubdbhhsibmqdsrzbifbqijomsejmojvcsrtshrub
ujmyvcsprb.

Bibsdrom,stirusyjhstjihvszjhjvsjosvybsqji,sybspjvyeibpsjovrsyjhsaqfjo.
Fnvsqtvbisvyqvsuriojom,sybspqhsbzbicseqcszjhjfdbsvrsvybsaibp;sbjvybi
hvqoejomsjosyjhsgjzrv-yrdb,srishbqvbesngrosqosjzricshvrrdsybsyqe;sri
ybqzjdcspqd jomsvybseba .sQhsvybsh csmibpsdbhhsmdrruc;sjoebbe,sfbmqosvr
mirpsqsdjvvdbsmbojqd,sybsfbaqubshvjddsdbhhsqoesdbhhsqsibadnhb;sqhsjt,
pybosvybshyjgsyqeshqjdbestirusyrub,sorvyjomsfnvsvybsebqespjovic
fdbq obhhsrtsvybshbqsyqesvybos bgvsyjushrshbadnebe.sQoe,sfcsqoesfc,sjv
aqubsvrsgqhh,svyqvsybspqhsqdurhvsarovjonqddcsjosvybsqji;sfnv,sqhscbv,
trisqddsvyqvsybshqje,srisgbiabgvjfdcseje,srosvybsqvsdqhvshnoocseba ,syb
hbbubesqhsnoobabhhqicsvybibsqhsqorvybisuqhv.sFnvsvybsGblnrespqhsrodc
uq jomsqsgqhhqmbsorp;sorvsibmndqidcsainjhjom;sobqidcsqddspyqdjom
gibgqiqvjzbhsobbejomshngbizjhjrosvybsuqvbhspbibstnddcsarugbvbovsvr,shr
vyqvsvybibspqhsdjvvdbsrisorvyjom,srnvsrtsyjuhbdt,svrsbugdrcsrisbxajvb
Qyqf,sorp;sqoesvynhsayqhbsqpqc,strisvyqvsrobsjovbizqd,svybsadrnehsvyqv
dqcbisngrosdqcbispbibsgjdbesngrosyjhsfirp,sqhsbzbisqddsadrnehsayrrhb
vybsdrtvjbhvsgbq hsvrsgjdbsvybuhbdzbhsngro.

Obzbivybdbhh,sbibsdrom,svybspqiu,spqifdjomsgbihnqhjzbobhhsrtsvyb
gdbqhqov,syrdjeqcspbqvybispbsaqubsvr,shbbubesmiqenqddcsvrsayqiusyju
tirusyjhsurre.sTri,sqhspybosvybsibe-aybb be,seqoajomsmjidh,sQgijdsqoe
Uqc,svijgsyrubsvrsvybspjovic,sujhqovyirgjasprreh;sbzbosvybsfqibhv,
inmmbebhv,surhvsvynoebi-adrzbosrdesrq spjddsqvsdbqhvshboestrivyshrub
tbpsmibboshgirnvh,svrspbdarubshnaysmdqe-ybqivbeszjhjvqovh;shrsQyqfseje,
josvybsboe,sqsdjvvdbsibhgroesvrsvybsgdqctndsqddnijomhsrtsvyqvsmjidjhy
qji.sUribsvyqosroabsejesybsgnvstrivysvybstqjovsfdrhhrusrtsqsdrr ,
pyjay,sjosqocsrvybisuqo,sprndesyqzbshrrostdrpbibesrnvsjosqshujdb.


AYQGVBIs29.sBovbisQyqf;svrsYju,sHvnff.

Hrubseqchsbdqghbe,sqoesjabsqoesjabfbimhsqddsqhvbio,svybsGblnresorpspbov
irddjomsvyirnmysvybsfijmyvsLnjvrshgijom,spyjay,sqvshbq,sqdurhv
gbigbvnqddcsibjmohsrosvybsvyibhyrdesrtsvybsbvbioqdsQnmnhvsrtsvyb
Virgja.sVybspqiudcsarrd,sadbqi,sijomjom,sgbitnube,srzbitdrpjom,
ibenoeqovseqch,spbibsqhsaichvqdsmrfdbvhsrtsGbihjqoshybifbv,sybqgbe
ng—tdq besng,spjvysirhb-pqvbishorp.sVybshvqiibesqoeshvqvbdcsojmyvh
hbbubesyqnmyvcsequbhsjoskbpbddbeszbdzbvh,sonihjomsqvsyrubsjosdrobdc
gijeb,svybsuburicsrtsvybjisqfhbovsarolnbijomsBqidh,svybsmrdebosybdubvbe
hnoh!sTrishdbbgjomsuqo,s’vpqhsyqiesvrsayrrhbsfbvpbboshnayspjohrubseqch
qoeshnayshbenajomsojmyvh.sFnvsqddsvybspjvaybijbhsrtsvyqvsnopqojom
pbqvybisejesorvsubibdcsdboesobpshgbddhsqoesgrvboajbhsvrsvybsrnvpqie
pride.sJopqiesvybcsvniobesngrosvybshrnd,sbhgbajqddcspybosvybshvjddsujde
yrnihsrtsbzbsaqubsro;svybo,suburicshyrvsybisaichvqdhsqhsvybsadbqisjab
urhvstriuhsrtsorjhbdbhhsvpjdjmyvh.sQoesqddsvybhbshnfvdbsqmboajbh,surib
qoesuribsvybcspirnmyvsrosQyqf’hsvbxvnib.

Rdesqmbsjhsqdpqchspq btnd;sqhsjt,svybsdrombisdjo bespjvysdjtb,svybsdbhh
uqosyqhsvrserspjvysqnmyvsvyqvsdrr hsdj bsebqvy.sQuromshbq-aruuqoebih,
vybsrdesmibcfbqiehspjddsrtvbobhvsdbqzbsvybjisfbivyhsvrszjhjvsvyb
ojmyv-adrq beseba .sJvspqhshrspjvysQyqf;srodcsvyqvsorp,srtsdqvb,syb
hbbubeshrsunaysvrsdjzbsjosvybsrgbosqji,svyqvsvindcshgbq jom,syjhszjhjvh
pbibsuribsvrsvybsaqfjo,svyqostirusvybsaqfjosvrsvybsgdqo h.s“Jvstbbdh
dj bsmrjomserposjovrsrob’hsvruf,”—ybsprndesunvvbisvrsyjuhbdt—“trisqo
rdesaqgvqjosdj bsubsvrsfbsebhaboejomsvyjhsoqiirpshanvvdb,svrsmrsvrsuc
miqzb-enmsfbivy.”

Hr,sqdurhvsbzbicsvpbovc-trnisyrnih,spybosvybspqvaybhsrtsvybsojmyvspbib
hbv,sqoesvybsfqoesroseba shbovjobddbesvybshdnufbihsrtsvybsfqoesfbdrp;
qoespybosjtsqsirgbspqhsvrsfbsyqndbesngrosvybstribaqhvdb,svybshqjdrih
tdnomsjvsorvsinebdcserpo,sqhsfcseqc,sfnvspjvyshrubsaqnvjrnhobhhseirgv
jvsvrsjvhsgdqabstristbqisrtsejhvnifjomsvybjishdnufbijomshyjguqvbh;spybo
vyjhshrivsrtshvbqecslnjbvnebsprndesfbmjosvrsgibzqjd,syqfjvnqddc,svyb
hjdbovshvbbihuqosprndespqvaysvybsaqfjo-hanvvdb;sqoesbibsdromsvybsrde
uqosprndesbubimb,smijggjomsqvsvybsjirosfqojhvbi,svrsybdgsyjhsaijggdbe
pqc.sHrubsarohjebijomsvrnaysrtsynuqojvcspqhsjosyju;strisqvsvjubhsdj b
vybhb,sybsnhnqddcsqfhvqjobestirusgqvirddjomsvybslnqivbi-eba ;sfbaqnhb
vrsyjhspbqijbesuqvbh,shbb jomsibgrhbspjvyjoshjxsjoaybhsrtsyjhsjzric
ybbd,shnaysprndesyqzbsfbbosvybsibzbifbiqvjomsaiqa sqoesejosrtsvyqvsfroc
hvbg,svyqvsvybjiseibquhsprndesyqzbsfbbosrosvybsainoayjomsvbbvysrt
hyqi h.sFnvsroab,svybsurrespqhsrosyjusvrrsebbgstrisaruurosibmqiejomh;
qoesqhspjvysybqzc,sdnufbi-dj bsgqabsybspqhsubqhnijomsvybshyjgstiru
vqttiqjdsvrsuqjouqhv,sHvnff,svybsrdeshbaroesuqvb,saqubsngstirusfbdrp,
pjvysqsabivqjosnoqhhnibe,sebgibaqvjomsynurirnhobhh,syjovbesvyqvsjt
AqgvqjosQyqfspqhsgdbqhbesvrspqd svybsgdqo h,svybo,sorsrobsarndeshqc
oqc;sfnvsvybibsujmyvsfbshrubspqcsrtsunttdjomsvybsorjhb;syjovjom
hrubvyjomsjoejhvjoavdcsqoesybhjvqvjomdcsqfrnvsqsmdrfbsrtsvrp,sqoesvyb
johbivjrosjovrsjv,srtsvybsjzricsybbd.sQy!sHvnff,svyrnsejehvsorvs orp
Qyqfsvybo.

“QusJsqsaqooro-fqdd,sHvnff,”shqjesQyqf,s“vyqvsvyrnsprndehvspqesubsvyqv
tqhyjro?sFnvsmrsvycspqch;sJsyqestrimrv.sFbdrpsvrsvycsojmyvdcsmiqzb;
pybibshnaysqhscbshdbbgsfbvpbboshyirneh,svrsnhbscbsvrsvybstjddjomsrobsqv
dqhv.—Erpo,serm,sqoes boobd!”

Hvqivjomsqvsvybsnotrihbbosaroadnejomsbxadquqvjrosrtsvybshrshneebodc
hariotndsrdesuqo,sHvnffspqhshgbbaydbhhsqsurubov;svyboshqjesbxajvbedc,
“Jsqusorvsnhbesvrsfbshgr bosvrsvyqvspqc,shji;sJsersfnvsdbhhsvyqosyqdt
dj bsjv,shji.”

“Qzqhv!smijvvbesQyqfsfbvpbbosyjhshbvsvbbvy,sqoeszjrdbovdcsurzjomsqpqc,
qhsjtsvrsqzrjeshrubsgqhhjroqvbsvbugvqvjro.

“Or,shji;sorvscbv,”shqjesHvnff,sbufrdebobe,s“Jspjddsorvsvqubdcsfb
aqddbesqserm,shji.”

“Vybosfbsaqddbesvbosvjubhsqsero bc,sqoesqsundb,sqoesqosqhh,sqoesfbmrob,
risJ’ddsadbqisvybspridesrtsvybb!”

Qhsybshqjesvyjh,sQyqfsqezqoabesngrosyjuspjvyshnaysrzbifbqijomsvbiirih
josyjhsqhgbav,svyqvsHvnffsjozrdnovqijdcsibvibqvbe.

“Jspqhsobzbishbizbeshrsfbtribspjvyrnvsmjzjomsqsyqiesfdrpstrisjv,”
unvvbibesHvnff,sqhsybstrnoesyjuhbdtsebhaboejomsvybsaqfjo-hanvvdb.s“Jv’h
zbicslnbbi.sHvrg,sHvnff;shrubyrp,sorp,sJsero’vspbdds orpspybvybisvrsmr
fqa sqoeshvij bsyju,sri—pyqv’hsvyqv?—erposybibsrosucs obbhsqoesgiqcstri
yju?sCbh,svyqvspqhsvybsvyrnmyvsarujomsngsjosub;sfnvsjvsprndesfbsvyb
tjihvsvjubsJsbzbis_eje_sgiqc.sJv’hslnbbi;szbicslnbbi;sqoesyb’hslnbbi
vrr;sqcb,svq bsyjustribsqoesqtv,syb’hsqfrnvsvybslnbbibhvsrdesuqosHvnff
bzbishqjdbespjvy.sYrpsybstdqhybesqvsub!—yjhsbcbhsdj bsgrpebi-gqoh!sjh
ybsuqe?sQocpqcsvybib’hshrubvyjomsrosyjhsujoe,sqhshnibsqhsvybibsunhvsfb
hrubvyjomsrosqseba spybosjvsaiqa h.sYbsqjovsjosyjhsfbesorp,sbjvybi,
uribsvyqosvyibbsyrnihsrnvsrtsvybsvpbovc-trni;sqoesybsero’vshdbbgsvybo.
Ejeo’vsvyqvsErnmy-Frc,svybshvbpqie,svbddsubsvyqvsrtsqsuriojomsybsqdpqch
tjoehsvybsrdesuqo’hsyquura sadrvybhsqddsinugdbesqoesvnufdbe,sqoesvyb
hybbvhserposqvsvybstrrv,sqoesvybsarzbidjesqdurhvsvjbesjovrs orvh,sqoe
vybsgjddrpsqshrivsrtstijmyvtndsyrv,sqhsvyrnmysqsfq besfija syqesfbbosro
jv?sQsyrvsrdesuqo!sJsmnbhhsyb’hsmrvspyqvshrubstrd hsqhyribsaqddsq
arohajboab;sjv’hsqs joesrtsVja-Erddc-irpsvybcshqc—prihbsorisq
vrrvyqayb.sPbdd,spbdd;sJsero’vs orpspyqvsjvsjh,sfnvsvybsDries bbgsub
tirusaqvayjomsjv.sYb’hstnddsrtsijeedbh;sJsproebispyqvsybsmrbhsjovrsvyb
qtvbisyrdestri,sbzbicsojmyv,sqhsErnmy-Frcsvbddhsubsybshnhgbavh;spyqv’h
vyqvstri,sJshyrndesdj bsvrs orp?sPyr’hsuqebsqggrjovubovhspjvysyjusjo
vybsyrde?sQjo’vsvyqvslnbbi,sorp?sFnvsvybib’hsorsvbddjom,sjv’hsvybsrde
mqub—Ybibsmrbhstrisqshorrwb.sEquosub,sjv’hsprivysqstbddrp’hspyjdbsvrsfb
friosjovrsvybspride,sjtsrodcsvrstqddsijmyvsqhdbbg.sQoesorpsvyqvsJsvyjo 
rtsjv,svyqv’hsqfrnvsvybstjihvsvyjomsfqfjbhser,sqoesvyqv’hsqshrivsrt
lnbbi,svrr.sEquosub,sfnvsqddsvyjomhsqibslnbbi,sarubsvrsvyjo srts’bu.
Fnvsvyqv’hsqmqjohvsucsgijoajgdbh.sVyjo sorv,sjhsucsbdbzbovy
aruuqoeubov;sqoeshdbbgspyboscrnsaqo,sjhsucsvpbdtvy—Hrsybibsmrbhsqmqjo.
Fnvsyrp’hsvyqv?sejeo’vsybsaqddsubsqserm?sfdqwbh!sybsaqddbesubsvbosvjubh
qsero bc,sqoesgjdbesqsdrvsrtskqa qhhbhsrosvrgsrts_vyqv!_sYbsujmyvsqh
pbddsyqzbs ja besub,sqoeserobspjvysjv.sUqcfbsybs_eje_s ja sub,sqoesJ
ejeo’vsrfhbizbsjv,sJspqhshrsvq bosqddsqfqa spjvysyjhsfirp,shrubyrp.sJv
tdqhybesdj bsqsfdbqaybesfrob.sPyqvsvybsebzjd’hsvybsuqvvbispjvysub?sJ
ero’vshvqoesijmyvsrosucsdbmh.sArujomsqtrndsrtsvyqvsrdesuqosyqhsqshriv
rtsvniobesubspiromshjebsrnv.sFcsvybsDrie,sJsunhvsyqzbsfbboseibqujom,
vyrnmy—Yrp?syrp?syrp?—fnvsvybsrodcspqc’hsvrshvqhysjv;shrsybibsmrbhsvr
yquura sqmqjo;sqoesjosvybsuriojom,sJ’ddshbbsyrpsvyjhsgdqmnbcsknmmdjom
vyjo hsrzbisfcseqcdjmyv.”


AYQGVBIs30.sVybsGjgb.

PybosHvnffsyqesebgqivbe,sQyqfshvrrestrisqspyjdbsdbqojomsrzbisvyb
fndpqi h;sqoesvybo,sqhsyqesfbbosnhnqdspjvysyjusrtsdqvb,saqddjomsq
hqjdrisrtsvybspqvay,sybshbovsyjusfbdrpstrisyjhsjzricshvrrd,sqoesqdhr
yjhsgjgb.sDjmyvjomsvybsgjgbsqvsvybsfjooqadbsdqugsqoesgdqovjomsvybshvrrd
rosvybspbqvybishjebsrtsvybseba ,sybshqvsqoeshur be.

JosrdesOrihbsvjubh,svybsvyirobhsrtsvybshbq-drzjomsEqojhys jomhspbib
tqfijaqvbe,shqjvysviqejvjro,srtsvybsvnh hsrtsvybsoqipyqdb.sYrpsarnde
robsdrr sqvsQyqfsvybo,shbqvbesrosvyqvsvijgresrtsfrobh,spjvyrnv
fbvyjo jomsyjusrtsvybsircqdvcsjvshcufrdjwbe?sTrisqs yqosrtsvybsgdqo ,
qoesqs jomsrtsvybshbq,sqoesqsmibqvsdriesrtsDbzjqvyqohspqhsQyqf.

Hrubsurubovhsgqhhbe,senijomspyjaysvybsvyja szqgrisaqubstirusyjhsurnvy
joslnja sqoesarohvqovsgntth,spyjaysfdbpsfqa sqmqjosjovrsyjhstqab.s“Yrp
orp,”sybshrdjdrlnjwbesqvsdqhv,spjvyeiqpjomsvybsvnfb,s“vyjhshur jomsor
drombishrrvybh.sRy,sucsgjgb!syqiesunhvsjvsmrspjvysubsjtsvycsayqiusfb
mrob!sYbibsyqzbsJsfbbosnoarohajrnhdcsvrjdjom,sorvsgdbqhnijom—qcb,sqoe
jmoriqovdcshur jomsvrspjoepqiesqddsvybspyjdb;svrspjoepqie,sqoespjvy
hnaysobizrnhspyjtth,sqhsjt,sdj bsvybsecjomspyqdb,sucstjoqdskbvhspbib
vybshvirombhvsqoestnddbhvsrtsvirnfdb.sPyqvsfnhjobhhsyqzbsJspjvysvyjh
gjgb?sVyjhsvyjomsvyqvsjhsubqovstrishbibobobhh,svrshboesngsujdespyjvb
zqgrihsquromsujdespyjvbsyqjih,sorvsquromsvriosjiro-mibcsdra hsdj b
ujob.sJ’ddshur bsorsurib—”

Ybsvrhhbesvybshvjddsdjmyvbesgjgbsjovrsvybshbq.sVybstjibsyjhhbesjosvyb
pqzbh;svybshqubsjohvqovsvybshyjgshyrvsfcsvybsfnffdbsvybshjo jomsgjgb
uqeb.sPjvyshdrnaybesyqv,sQyqfsdniayjomdcsgqabesvybsgdqo h.


AYQGVBIs31.sLnbbosUqf.

ObxvsuriojomsHvnffsqaarhvbesTdqh .

“Hnaysqslnbbiseibqu,s jom-Grhv,sJsobzbisyqe.sCrns orpsvybsrdesuqo’h
jzricsdbm,spbddsJseibqubesybs ja besubspjvysjv;sqoespybosJsvijbesvr
 ja sfqa ,sngrosucshrnd,sucsdjvvdbsuqo,sJs ja besucsdbmsijmyvsrtt!sQoe
vybo,sgibhvr!sQyqfshbbubesqsgciquje,sqoesJ,sdj bsqsfdqwjomstrrd,s bgv
 ja jomsqvsjv.sFnvspyqvspqhshvjddsuribsanijrnh,sTdqh —crns orpsyrp
anijrnhsqddseibquhsqib—vyirnmysqddsvyjhsiqmbsvyqvsJspqhsjo,sJshrubyrp
hbbubesvrsfbsvyjo jomsvrsuchbdt,svyqvsqtvbisqdd,sjvspqhsorvsunaysrtsqo
johndv,svyqvs ja stirusQyqf.s‘Pyc,’svyjo hsJ,s‘pyqv’hsvybsirp?sJv’hsorv
qsibqdsdbm,srodcsqstqdhbsdbm.’sQoesvybib’hsqsujmyvcsejttbiboabsfbvpbbo
qsdjzjomsvynugsqoesqsebqesvynug.sVyqv’hspyqvsuq bhsqsfdrpstirusvyb
yqoe,sTdqh ,stjtvcsvjubhsuribshqzqmbsvrsfbqisvyqosqsfdrpstirusqsaqob.
Vybsdjzjomsubufbi—vyqvsuq bhsvybsdjzjomsjohndv,sucsdjvvdbsuqo.sQoe
vyjo hsJsvrsuchbdtsqddsvybspyjdb,sujoe,spyjdbsJspqhshvnffjomsucshjddc
vrbhsqmqjohvsvyqvsanihbesgciquje—hrsarotrnoebedcsaroviqejavricspqhsjv
qdd,sqddsvybspyjdb,sJshqc,sJspqhsvyjo jomsvrsuchbdt,s‘pyqv’hsyjhsdbm
orp,sfnvsqsaqob—qspyqdbfrobsaqob.sCbh,’svyjo hsJ,s‘jvspqhsrodcsq
gdqctndsanembddjom—jostqav,srodcsqspyqdbfrojomsvyqvsybsmqzbsub—orvsq
fqhbs ja .sFbhjebh,’svyjo hsJ,s‘drr sqvsjvsroab;spyc,svybsboesrtsjv—vyb
trrvsgqiv—pyqvsqshuqddshrivsrtsboesjvsjh;spybibqh,sjtsqsfirqestrrvbe
tqiubis ja besub,s_vybib’h_sqsebzjdjhysfirqesjohndv.sFnvsvyjhsjohndvsjh
pyjvvdbeserposvrsqsgrjovsrodc.’sFnvsorpsarubhsvybsmibqvbhvskr bsrtsvyb
eibqu,sTdqh .sPyjdbsJspqhsfqvvbijomsqpqcsqvsvybsgciquje,sqshrivsrt
fqembi-yqjibesrdesubiuqo,spjvysqsynugsrosyjhsfqa ,svq bhsubsfcsvyb
hyrndebih,sqoeshdbphsubsirnoe.s‘Pyqvsqibscrns’frnv?’shqchsyb.sHdje!
uqo,sfnvsJspqhstijmyvbobe.sHnaysqsgyjw!sFnv,shrubyrp,sobxvsurubovsJspqh
rzbisvybstijmyv.s‘PyqvsqusJsqfrnv?’shqchsJsqvsdqhv.s‘Qoespyqvsfnhjobhh
jhsvyqvsrtscrnih,sJshyrndesdj bsvrs orp,sUi.sYnugfqa ?sErs_crn_spqovsq
 ja ?’sFcsvybsdrie,sTdqh ,sJsyqesorshrrobishqjesvyqv,svyqosybsvniobe
irnoesyjhshvbiosvrsub,sfbovsrzbi,sqoeseiqmmjomsngsqsdrvsrtshbqpbbesyb
yqestrisqsadrnv—pyqvserscrnsvyjo ,sJshqp?—pycsvynoebisqdjzb,suqo,syjh
hvbiospqhshvna stnddsrtsuqidjohgj bh,spjvysvybsgrjovhsrnv.sHqchsJ,sro
hbaroesvyrnmyvh,s‘JsmnbhhsJspro’vs ja scrn,srdestbddrp.’s‘PjhbsHvnff,’
hqjesyb,s‘pjhbsHvnff;’sqoes bgvsunvvbijomsjvsqddsvybsvjub,sqshrivsrt
bqvjomsrtsyjhsrposmnuhsdj bsqsayjuobcsyqm.sHbbjomsybspqho’vsmrjomsvr
hvrgshqcjomsrzbisyjhs‘pjhbsHvnff,spjhbsHvnff,’sJsvyrnmyvsJsujmyvsqh
pbddstqddsvrs ja jomsvybsgciqujesqmqjo.sFnvsJsyqesrodcsknhvsdjtvbesuc
trrvstrisjv,spybosybsirqibesrnv,s‘Hvrgsvyqvs ja jom!’s‘Yqddrq,’shqchsJ,
‘pyqv’hsvybsuqvvbisorp,srdestbddrp?’s‘Drr scbsybib,’shqchsyb;s‘dbv’h
qimnbsvybsjohndv.sAqgvqjosQyqfs ja bescb,sejeo’vsyb?’s‘Cbh,sybseje,’
hqchsJ—‘ijmyvs_ybib_sjvspqh.’s‘Zbicsmrre,’shqchsyb—‘ybsnhbesyjhsjzric
dbm,sejeo’vsyb?’s‘Cbh,sybseje,’shqchsJ.s‘Pbddsvybo,’shqchsyb,s‘pjhb
Hvnff,spyqvsyqzbscrnsvrsarugdqjosrt?sEjeo’vsybs ja spjvysijmyvsmrre
pjdd?sjvspqho’vsqsaruurosgjvaysgjobsdbmsybs ja bespjvy,spqhsjv?sOr,scrn
pbibs ja besfcsqsmibqvsuqo,sqoespjvysqsfbqnvjtndsjzricsdbm,sHvnff.sJv’h
qosyrori;sJsarohjebisjvsqosyrori.sDjhvbo,spjhbsHvnff.sJosrdesBomdqoe
vybsmibqvbhvsdriehsvyjo sjvsmibqvsmdricsvrsfbshdqggbesfcsqslnbbo,sqoe
uqebsmqivbi- ojmyvhsrt;sfnv,sfbs_crni_sfrqhv,sHvnff,svyqvscbspbib
 ja besfcsrdesQyqf,sqoesuqebsqspjhbsuqosrt.sIbubufbispyqvsJshqc;s_fb_
 ja besfcsyju;sqaarnovsyjhs ja hsyrorih;sqoesrosorsqaarnovs ja sfqa ;
triscrnsaqo’vsybdgscrnihbdt,spjhbsHvnff.sEro’vscrnshbbsvyqvsgciquje?’
Pjvysvyqv,sybsqddsrtsqshneeboshbbubeshrubyrp,sjoshrubslnbbistqhyjro,svr
hpjusrttsjovrsvybsqji.sJshoribe;sirddbesrzbi;sqoesvybibsJspqhsjosuc
yquura !sOrp,spyqvserscrnsvyjo srtsvyqvseibqu,sTdqh ?”

“Jsero’vs orp;sjvshbbuhsqshrivsrtstrrdjhysvrsub,svyr.’”

“Uqcsfb;suqcsfb.sFnvsjv’hsuqebsqspjhbsuqosrtsub,sTdqh .sE’cbshbbsQyqf
hvqoejomsvybib,shjebpqchsdrr jomsrzbisvybshvbio?sPbdd,svybsfbhvsvyjom
crnsaqoser,sTdqh ,sjhsvrsdbvsvybsrdesuqosqdrob;sobzbishgbq svrsyju,
pyqvbzbisybshqch.sYqddrq!sPyqv’hsvyqvsybshyrnvh?sYqi !”

“Uqhv-ybqe,svybib!sDrr shyqig,sqddsrtscb!sVybibsqibspyqdbhsybibqfrnvh!

“Jtscbshbbsqspyjvbsrob,shgdjvscrnisdnomhstrisyju!

“Pyqvserscrnsvyjo srtsvyqvsorp,sTdqh ?sqjo’vsvybibsqshuqddseirgsrt
hrubvyjomslnbbisqfrnvsvyqv,sby?sQspyjvbspyqdb—ejescbsuqi svyqv,suqo?
Drr scb—vybib’hshrubvyjomshgbajqdsjosvybspjoe.sHvqoesfcstrisjv,sTdqh .
Qyqfsyqhsvyqvsvyqv’hsfdrrecsrosyjhsujoe.sFnv,sunu;sybsarubhsvyjhspqc.”


AYQGVBIs32.sAbvrdrmc.

Qdibqecspbsqibsfrdedcsdqnoaybesngrosvybsebbg;sfnvshrrospbshyqddsfbsdrhv
josjvhsnohyribe,syqifrnidbhhsjuubohjvjbh.sBibsvyqvsarubsvrsgqhh;sbib
vybsGblnre’hspbbecsynddsirddhshjebsfcshjebspjvysvybsfqioqadbesynddhsrt
vybsdbzjqvyqo;sqvsvybsrnvhbvsjvsjhsfnvspbddsvrsqvvboesvrsqsuqvvbi
qdurhvsjoejhgbohqfdbsvrsqsvyrirnmysqggibajqvjzbsnoebihvqoejomsrtsvyb
uribshgbajqdsdbzjqvyqojasibzbdqvjrohsqoesqddnhjrohsrtsqddshrivhspyjay
qibsvrstrddrp.

Jvsjhshrubshchvbuqvjwbesbxyjfjvjrosrtsvybspyqdbsjosyjhsfirqesmbobiq,
vyqvsJsprndesorpstqjosgnvsfbtribscrn.sCbvsjhsjvsorsbqhcsvqh .sVyb
adqhhjtjaqvjrosrtsvybsarohvjvnbovhsrtsqsayqrh,sorvyjomsdbhhsjhsybib
bhhqcbe.sDjhvbosvrspyqvsvybsfbhvsqoesdqvbhvsqnvyrijvjbhsyqzbsdqjeserpo.

“OrsfiqoaysrtsWrrdrmcsjhshrsunaysjozrdzbesqhsvyqvspyjaysjhsbovjvdbe
Abvrdrmc,”shqchsAqgvqjosHaribhfc,sQ.E.s1820.

“Jvsjhsorvsucsjovbovjro,spbibsjvsjosucsgrpbi,svrsbovbisjovrsvybsjolnjic
qhsvrsvybsvinbsubvyresrtsejzjejomsvybsabvqabqsjovrsmirnghsqoestqujdjbh.
*s*s*sNvvbisarotnhjrosbxjhvhsquromsvybsyjhvrijqohsrtsvyjhsqojuqd”
(hgbiuspyqdb),shqchsHnimbrosFbqdb,sQ.E.s1839.

“Notjvobhhsvrsgnihnbsrnisibhbqiaysjosvybsnotqvyruqfdbspqvbih.”
“Jugbobviqfdbszbjdsarzbijomsrnis orpdbembsrtsvybsabvqabq.”s“Qstjbde
hvibpospjvysvyrioh.”s“Qddsvybhbsjoarugdbvbsjoejaqvjrohsfnvshbizbsvr
vrivnibsnhsoqvniqdjhvh.”

Vynhshgbq srtsvybspyqdb,svybsmibqvsAnzjbi,sqoesKryosYnovbi,sqoesDbhhro,
vyrhbsdjmyvhsrtswrrdrmcsqoesqoqvruc.sObzbivybdbhh,svyrnmysrtsibqd
 orpdbembsvybibsfbsdjvvdb,scbvsrtsfrr hsvybibsqibsqsgdbovc;sqoeshrsjo
hrubshuqddsebmibb,spjvysabvrdrmc,srisvybshajboabsrtspyqdbh.sUqocsqib
vybsubo,shuqddsqoesmibqv,srdesqoesobp,sdqoehubosqoeshbqubo,spyrsyqzbsqv
dqimbsrisjosdjvvdb,spijvvbosrtsvybspyqdb.sInosrzbisqstbp:—VybsQnvyrih
rtsvybsFjfdb;sQijhvrvdb;sGdjoc;sQdeirzqoej;sHjisVyruqhsFirpob;sMbhobi;
Iqc;sDjooænh;sIroebdbvjnh;sPjddrnmyfc;sMibbo;sQivbej;sHjffqde;sFijhhro;
Uqivbo;sDqaégèeb;sFroobvbiib;sEbhuqibhv;sFqirosAnzjbi;sTibebija 
Anzjbi;sKryosYnovbi;sRpbo;sHaribhfc;sFbqdb;sFboobvv;sK.sIrhhsFirpob;
vybsQnvyrisrtsUjijqusArttjo;sRduhvbqe;sqoesvybsIbz.sV.sAybbzbi.sFnvsvr
pyqvsndvjuqvbsmbobiqdjwjomsgnigrhbsqddsvybhbsyqzbspijvvbo,svybsqfrzb
ajvbesbxviqavhspjddshyrp.

Rtsvybsoqubhsjosvyjhsdjhvsrtspyqdbsqnvyrih,srodcsvyrhbstrddrpjomsRpbo
bzbishqpsdjzjomspyqdbh;sqoesfnvsrobsrtsvybuspqhsqsibqdsgirtbhhjroqd
yqigrrobbisqoespyqdbuqo.sJsubqosAqgvqjosHaribhfc.sRosvybshbgqiqvb
hnfkbavsrtsvybsMibbodqoesrisijmyv-pyqdb,sybsjhsvybsfbhvsbxjhvjom
qnvyrijvc.sFnvsHaribhfcs obpsorvyjomsqoeshqchsorvyjomsrtsvybsmibqv
hgbiuspyqdb,sarugqibespjvyspyjaysvybsMibbodqoespyqdbsjhsqdurhvsnoprivyc
ubovjrojom.sQoesybibsfbsjvshqje,svyqvsvybsMibbodqoespyqdbsjhsqosnhnigbi
ngrosvybsvyirobsrtsvybshbqh.sYbsjhsorvsbzbosfcsqocsubqohsvybsdqimbhvsrt
vybspyqdbh.sCbv,srpjomsvrsvybsdromsgijrijvcsrtsyjhsadqjuh,sqoesvyb
girtrnoesjmoriqoabspyjay,svjddshrubshbzbovcscbqihsfqa ,sjozbhvbesvyb
vybostqfndrnhsrisnvvbidcsno orposhgbiu-pyqdb,sqoespyjaysjmoriqoabsvr
vyjhsgibhbovseqcshvjddsibjmohsjosqddsfnvshrubstbpshajbovjtjasibvibqvh
qoespyqdb-grivh;svyjhsnhnigqvjrosyqhsfbbosbzbicspqcsarugdbvb.sIbtbiboab
vrsobqidcsqddsvybsdbzjqvyqojasqddnhjrohsjosvybsmibqvsgrbvhsrtsgqhv
eqch,spjddshqvjhtcscrnsvyqvsvybsMibbodqoespyqdb,spjvyrnvsrobsijzqd,spqh
vrsvybusvybsuroqiaysrtsvybshbqh.sFnvsvybsvjubsyqhsqvsdqhvsarubstrisq
obpsgiradquqvjro.sVyjhsjhsAyqijomsAirhh;sybqiscb!smrresgbrgdbsqdd,—vyb
Mibbodqoespyqdbsjhsebgrhbe,—vybsmibqvshgbiuspyqdbsorpsibjmobvy!

Vybibsqibsrodcsvprsfrr hsjosfbjomspyjaysqvsqddsgibvboesvrsgnvsvyb
djzjomshgbiuspyqdbsfbtribscrn,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjub,sjosvybsiburvbhv
ebmibbshnaabbesjosvybsqvvbugv.sVyrhbsfrr hsqibsFbqdb’hsqoesFboobvv’h;
frvysjosvybjisvjubshnimbrohsvrsBomdjhysHrnvy-Hbqspyqdb-hyjgh,sqoesfrvy
bxqavsqoesibdjqfdbsubo.sVybsrijmjoqdsuqvvbisvrnayjomsvybshgbiuspyqdbsvr
fbstrnoesjosvybjiszrdnubhsjhsobabhhqijdcshuqdd;sfnvshrstqisqhsjvsmrbh,
jvsjhsrtsbxabddbovslnqdjvc,svyrnmysurhvdcsarotjobesvrshajbovjtja
ebhaijgvjro.sQhscbv,syrpbzbi,svybshgbiuspyqdb,shajbovjtjasrisgrbvja,
djzbhsorvsarugdbvbsjosqocsdjvbiqvnib.sTqisqfrzbsqddsrvybisynovbe
pyqdbh,syjhsjhsqosnopijvvbosdjtb.

Orpsvybszqijrnhshgbajbhsrtspyqdbhsobbeshrubshrivsrtsgrgndqi
arugibybohjzbsadqhhjtjaqvjro,sjtsrodcsqosbqhcsrnvdjobsrobstrisvyb
gibhbov,sybibqtvbisvrsfbstjddbesjosqddsjvhsebgqivubovhsfcshnfhblnbov
dqfribih.sQhsorsfbvvbisuqosqezqoabhsvrsvq bsvyjhsuqvvbisjosyqoe,sJ
ybibngrosrttbisucsrposgrrisboebqzrih.sJsgirujhbsorvyjomsarugdbvb;
fbaqnhbsqocsynuqosvyjomshnggrhbesvrsfbsarugdbvb,sunhvstrisvyqvszbic
ibqhrosjotqddjfdcsfbstqndvc.sJshyqddsorvsgibvboesvrsqsujonvbsqoqvrujaqd
ebhaijgvjrosrtsvybszqijrnhshgbajbh,sri—josvyjhsgdqabsqvsdbqhv—vrsunay
rtsqocsebhaijgvjro.sUcsrfkbavsybibsjhshjugdcsvrsgirkbavsvybseiqnmyvsrt
qshchvbuqvjwqvjrosrtsabvrdrmc.sJsqusvybsqiayjvbav,sorvsvybsfnjdebi.

Fnvsjvsjhsqsgroebirnhsvqh ;sorsriejoqicsdbvvbi-hrivbisjosvyb
Grhv-Rttjabsjhsblnqdsvrsjv.sVrsmirgbserposjovrsvybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbq
qtvbisvybu;svrsyqzbsrob’hsyqoehsquromsvybsnohgbq qfdbstrnoeqvjroh,
ijfh,sqoeszbicsgbdzjhsrtsvybspride;svyjhsjhsqstbqitndsvyjom.sPyqvsqusJ
vyqvsJshyrndesbhhqcsvrsyrr svybsorhbsrtsvyjhsdbzjqvyqo!sVybsqptnd
vqnovjomhsjosKrfsujmyvspbddsqggqdsub.sPjddsybs(vybsdbzjqvyqo)suq bsq
arzboqovspjvysvybb?sFbyrdesvybsyrgbsrtsyjusjhszqjo!sFnvsJsyqzbshpqu
vyirnmysdjfiqijbhsqoeshqjdbesvyirnmysrabqoh;sJsyqzbsyqesvrserspjvy
pyqdbhspjvysvybhbszjhjfdbsyqoeh;sJsqusjosbqiobhv;sqoesJspjddsvic.sVybib
qibshrubsgibdjujoqijbhsvrshbvvdb.

Tjihv:sVybsnoabivqjo,snohbvvdbesaroejvjrosrtsvyjhshajboabsrtsAbvrdrmc
jhsjosvybszbicszbhvjfndbsqvvbhvbesfcsvybstqav,svyqvsjoshrubslnqivbihsjv
hvjddsibuqjohsqsurrvsgrjovspybvybisqspyqdbsfbsqstjhy.sJosyjhsHchvbusrt
Oqvnib,sQ.E.s1776,sDjooænhsebadqibh,s“Jsybibfcshbgqiqvbsvybspyqdbhstiru
vybstjhy.”sFnvsrtsucsrpos orpdbemb,sJs orpsvyqvserposvrsvybscbqis1850,
hyqi hsqoeshyqe,sqdbpjzbhsqoesybiijom,sqmqjohvsDjooænh’hsbxgibhhsbejav,
pbibshvjddstrnoesejzjejomsvybsgrhhbhhjrosrtsvybshqubshbqhspjvysvyb
Dbzjqvyqo.

VybsmirnoehsngrospyjaysDjooænhsprndestqjosyqzbsfqojhybesvybspyqdbhstiru
vybspqvbih,sybshvqvbhsqhstrddrph:s“Rosqaarnovsrtsvybjispqiusfjdrandqi
ybqiv,svybjisdnomh,svybjisurzqfdbsbcbdjeh,svybjisyrddrpsbqih,sgbobu
joviqovbustbujoqusuquujhsdqavqovbu,”sqoestjoqddc,s“bxsdbmbsoqvniæsknib
ubijvrlnb.”sJshnfujvvbesqddsvyjhsvrsucstijboehsHjubrosUqabcsqoesAyqidbc
Arttjo,srtsOqovna bv,sfrvysubhhuqvbhsrtsujobsjosqsabivqjoszrcqmb,sqoe
vybcsnojvbesjosvybsrgjojrosvyqvsvybsibqhrohshbvstrivyspbibsqdvrmbvybi
johnttjajbov.sAyqidbcsgirtqobdcsyjovbesvybcspbibsynufnm.

Fbsjvs orposvyqv,spqjzjomsqddsqimnubov,sJsvq bsvybsmrresrdestqhyjrobe
mirnoesvyqvsvybspyqdbsjhsqstjhy,sqoesaqddsngrosyrdcsKroqysvrsfqa sub.
Vyjhstnoequbovqdsvyjomshbvvdbe,svybsobxvsgrjovsjh,sjospyqvsjovbioqd
ibhgbavserbhsvybspyqdbsejttbistirusrvybistjhy.sQfrzb,sDjooænhsyqhsmjzbo
crnsvyrhbsjvbuh.sFnvsjosfijbt,svybcsqibsvybhb:sdnomhsqoespqiusfdrre;
pybibqh,sqddsrvybistjhysqibsdnomdbhhsqoesardesfdrrebe.

Obxv:syrpshyqddspbsebtjobsvybspyqdb,sfcsyjhsrfzjrnhsbxvbioqdh,shrsqh
arohgjanrnhdcsvrsdqfbdsyjustrisqddsvjubsvrsarub?sVrsfbshyriv,svybo,sq
pyqdbsjhs_qshgrnvjomstjhyspjvysqsyrijwrovqdsvqjd_.sVybibscrnsyqzbsyju.
Yrpbzbisaroviqavbe,svyqvsebtjojvjrosjhsvybsibhndvsrtsbxgqoebe
ubejvqvjro.sQspqdinhshgrnvhsunaysdj bsqspyqdb,sfnvsvybspqdinhsjhsorvsq
tjhy,sfbaqnhbsybsjhsqugyjfjrnh.sFnvsvybsdqhvsvbiusrtsvybsebtjojvjrosjh
hvjddsuribsarmbov,sqhsarngdbespjvysvybstjihv.sQdurhvsqocsrobsunhvsyqzb
orvjabesvyqvsqddsvybstjhystqujdjqisvrsdqoehubosyqzbsorvsqstdqv,sfnvsq
zbivjaqd,srisng-qoe-erposvqjd.sPybibqh,squromshgrnvjomstjhysvybsvqjd,
vyrnmysjvsuqcsfbshjujdqidcshyqgbe,sjozqijqfdcsqhhnubhsqsyrijwrovqd
grhjvjro.

Fcsvybsqfrzbsebtjojvjrosrtspyqvsqspyqdbsjh,sJsersfcsorsubqohsbxadneb
tirusvybsdbzjqvyqojasfirvybiyrresqocshbqsaibqvnibsyjvybivrsjebovjtjbe
pjvysvybspyqdbsfcsvybsfbhvsjotriubesOqovna bvbih;sori,srosvybsrvybi
yqoe,sdjo spjvysjvsqocstjhysyjvybivrsqnvyrijvqvjzbdcsibmqiebesqh
qdjbo.*sYboab,sqddsvybshuqddbi,shgrnvjom,sqoesyrijwrovqdsvqjdbestjhy
unhvsfbsjoadnebesjosvyjhsmirnoe-gdqosrtsAbvrdrmc.sOrp,svybo,sarubsvyb
miqoesejzjhjrohsrtsvybsbovjibspyqdbsyrhv.

*Jsqusqpqibsvyqvserposvrsvybsgibhbovsvjub,svybstjhyshvcdbesDquqvjohsqoe
Enmromhs(Gjm-tjhysqoesHrp-tjhysrtsvybsArttjohsrtsOqovna bv)sqib
joadnebesfcsuqocsoqvniqdjhvhsquromsvybspyqdbh.sFnvsqhsvybhbsgjm-tjhy
qibsqsorjhc,sarovbugvjfdbshbv,surhvdcsdni jomsjosvybsurnvyhsrtsijzbih,
qoestbbejomsrospbvsyqc,sqoesbhgbajqddcsqhsvybcsersorvshgrnv,sJseboc
vybjisaibebovjqdhsqhspyqdbh;sqoesyqzbsgibhbovbesvybuspjvysvybji
gqhhgrivhsvrslnjvsvybs jomerusrtsAbvrdrmc.

Tjihv:sQaariejomsvrsuqmojvnebsJsejzjebsvybspyqdbhsjovrsvyibbsgijuqic
FRR Hs(hnfejzjhjfdbsjovrsAYQGVBIH),sqoesvybhbshyqddsarugibyboesvybu
qdd,sfrvyshuqddsqoesdqimb.

J.sVYBsTRDJRsPYQDB;sJJ.svybsRAVQZRsPYQDB;sJJJ.svybsENREBAJURsPYQDB.

QhsvybsvcgbsrtsvybsTRDJRsJsgibhbovsvybs_HgbiusPyqdb_;srtsvybsRAVQZR,
vybs_Miqugnh_;srtsvybsENREBAJUR,svybs_Grigrjhb_.

TRDJRH.sQuromsvybhbsJsybibsjoadnebsvybstrddrpjomsayqgvbih:—J.sVyb
_HgbiusPyqdb_;sJJ.svybs_IjmyvsPyqdb_;sJJJ.svybs_Tjo-Fqa sPyqdb_;sJZ.
vybs_Ynug-fqa besPyqdb_;sZ.svybs_IqwrisFqa sPyqdb_;sZJ.svybs_Hndgyni
FrvvrusPyqdb_.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sAYQGVBIsJ.s(_HgbiusPyqdb_).—Vyjhspyqdb,squromsvyb
Bomdjhysrtsrdeszqmnbdcs orposqhsvybsVinugqspyqdb,sqoesvybsGychbvbi
pyqdb,sqoesvybsQozjdsYbqebespyqdb,sjhsvybsgibhbovsAqayqdrvsrtsvyb
Tiboay,sqoesvybsGrvvhtjaysrtsvybsMbiuqoh,sqoesvybsUqairabgyqdnhsrtsvyb
DromsPrieh.sYbsjh,spjvyrnvsernfv,svybsdqimbhvsjoyqfjvqovsrtsvybsmdrfb;
vybsurhvstriujeqfdbsrtsqddspyqdbhsvrsboarnovbi;svybsurhvsuqkbhvjasjo
qhgbav;sqoesdqhvdc,sfcstqisvybsurhvszqdnqfdbsjosaruubiab;sybsfbjomsvyb
rodcsaibqvnibstiruspyjaysvyqvszqdnqfdbshnfhvqoab,shgbiuqabvj,sjh
rfvqjobe.sQddsyjhsgbandjqijvjbhspjdd,sjosuqocsrvybisgdqabh,sfbsbodqimbe
ngro.sJvsjhsayjbtdcspjvysyjhsoqubsvyqvsJsorpsyqzbsvrser.sGyjdrdrmjaqddc
arohjebibe,sjvsjhsqfhnie.sHrubsabovnijbhsqmr,spybosvybsHgbiuspyqdbspqh
qdurhvspyrddcsno orposjosyjhsrposgirgbisjoejzjenqdjvc,sqoespybosyjhsrjd
pqhsrodcsqaajebovqddcsrfvqjobestirusvybshviqoebestjhy;sjosvyrhbseqch
hgbiuqabvj,sjvsprndeshbbu,spqhsgrgndqidcshnggrhbesvrsfbsebijzbestirusq
aibqvnibsjebovjaqdspjvysvybsrobsvybos orposjosBomdqoesqhsvybsMibbodqoe
risIjmyvsPyqdb.sJvspqhsvybsjebqsqdhr,svyqvsvyjhshqubshgbiuqabvjspqh
vyqvslnja bojomsynurisrtsvybsMibbodqoesPyqdbspyjaysvybstjihvshcddqfdb
rtsvybspriesdjvbiqddcsbxgibhhbh.sJosvyrhbsvjubh,sqdhr,shgbiuqabvjspqh
bxabbejomdcshaqiab,sorvsfbjomsnhbestrisdjmyv,sfnvsrodcsqhsqosrjovubov
qoesubejaqubov.sJvspqhsrodcsvrsfbsyqestirusvybseinmmjhvhsqhscrn
orpqeqchsfncsqosrnoabsrtsiynfqif.sPybo,sqhsJsrgjob,sjosvybsarnihbsrt
vjub,svybsvinbsoqvnibsrtshgbiuqabvjsfbaqubs orpo,sjvhsrijmjoqdsoqubspqh
hvjddsibvqjobesfcsvybsebqdbih;sorsernfvsvrsboyqoabsjvhszqdnbsfcsq
orvjroshrshviqombdcshjmojtjaqovsrtsjvhshaqiajvc.sQoeshrsvybsqggbddqvjro
unhvsqvsdqhvsyqzbsarubsvrsfbsfbhvrpbesngrosvybspyqdbstiruspyjaysvyjh
hgbiuqabvjspqhsibqddcsebijzbe.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sAYQGVBIsJJ.s(_IjmyvsPyqdb_).—Josrobsibhgbavsvyjhsjh
vybsurhvszbobiqfdbsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqoh,sfbjomsvybsrobstjihvsibmndqidc
ynovbesfcsuqo.sJvscjbdehsvybsqivjadbsaruurodcs orposqhspyqdbfrobsri
fqdbbo;sqoesvybsrjdshgbajqddcs orposqhs“pyqdbsrjd,”sqosjotbijrisqivjadb
josaruubiab.sQuromsvybstjhybiubo,sybsjhsjoejhaijujoqvbdcsebhjmoqvbesfc
qddsvybstrddrpjomsvjvdbh:sVybsPyqdb;svybsMibbodqoesPyqdb;svybsFdqa 
Pyqdb;svybsMibqvsPyqdb;svybsVinbsPyqdb;svybsIjmyvsPyqdb.sVybibsjhsq
ebqdsrtsrfhanijvcsaroabiojomsvybsjebovjvcsrtsvybshgbajbhsvynh
undvjvnejornhdcsfqgvjhbe.sPyqvsvybosjhsvybspyqdb,spyjaysJsjoadnebsjo
vybshbaroeshgbajbhsrtsucsTrdjrh?sJvsjhsvybsMibqvsUchvjabvnhsrtsvyb
Bomdjhysoqvniqdjhvh;svybsMibbodqoesPyqdbsrtsvybsBomdjhyspyqdbubo;svyb
FqdbjobsRiejoqjibsrtsvybsTiboayspyqdbubo;svybsMirpdqoehsPqdtjhysrtsvyb
Hpbebh.sJvsjhsvybspyqdbspyjaystrisuribsvyqosvprsabovnijbhsgqhvsyqhsfbbo
ynovbesfcsvybsEnvaysqoesBomdjhysjosvybsQiavjashbqh;sjvsjhsvybspyqdb
pyjaysvybsQubijaqostjhybiubosyqzbsdromsgnihnbesjosvybsJoejqosrabqo,sro
vybsFiqwjdsFqo h,srosvybsOri’sPbhvsArqhv,sqoeszqijrnhsrvybisgqivhsrt
vybspride,sebhjmoqvbesfcsvybusIjmyvsPyqdbsAinjhjomsMirnoeh.

HrubsgibvboesvrshbbsqsejttbiboabsfbvpbbosvybsMibbodqoespyqdbsrtsvyb
BomdjhysqoesvybsijmyvspyqdbsrtsvybsQubijaqoh.sFnvsvybcsgibajhbdcsqmibb
josqddsvybjismiqoestbqvnibh;sorisyqhsvybibscbvsfbbosgibhbovbesqshjomdb
ebvbiujoqvbstqavsngrospyjaysvrsmirnoesqsiqejaqdsejhvjoavjro.sJvsjhsfc
boedbhhshnfejzjhjrohsfqhbesngrosvybsurhvsjoaroadnhjzbsejttbiboabh,svyqv
hrubsebgqivubovhsrtsoqvniqdsyjhvricsfbarubshrsibgbddjomdcsjovijaqvb.
Vybsijmyvspyqdbspjddsfbsbdhbpybibsvibqvbesrtsqvshrubsdbomvy,spjvy
ibtbiboabsvrsbdnajeqvjomsvybshgbiuspyqdb.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sAYQGVBIsJJJ.s(_Tjo-Fqa _).—NoebisvyjhsybqesJsiba ro
qsurohvbispyjay,sfcsvybszqijrnhsoqubhsrtsTjo-Fqa ,sVqdd-Hgrnv,sqoe
Drom-Kryo,syqhsfbboshbbosqdurhvsjosbzbicshbqsqoesjhsaruurodcsvybspyqdb
pyrhbsejhvqovskbvsjhshrsrtvbosebhaijbesfcsgqhhbombihsairhhjomsvyb
Qvdqovja,sjosvybsObpsCri sgqa bv-viqa h.sJosvybsdbomvysybsqvvqjoh,sqoe
josyjhsfqdbbo,svybsTjo-fqa sibhbufdbhsvybsijmyvspyqdb,sfnvsjhsrtsqsdbhh
grivdcsmjivy,sqoesqsdjmyvbisardrni,sqggirqayjomsvrsrdjzb.sYjhsmibqv
djghsgibhbovsqsaqfdb-dj bsqhgbav,striubesfcsvybsjovbivpjhvjom,shdqovjom
trdehsrtsdqimbspijo dbh.sYjhsmiqoesejhvjomnjhyjomstbqvnib,svybstjo,
tiruspyjaysybsebijzbhsyjhsoqub,sjhsrtvbosqsarohgjanrnhsrfkbav.sVyjhstjo
jhshrubsvyibbsristrnistbbvsdrom,smirpjomszbivjaqddcstirusvybsyjoebi
gqivsrtsvybsfqa ,srtsqosqomndqishyqgb,sqoespjvysqszbicshyqigsgrjovbe
boe.sBzbosjtsorvsvybshdjmyvbhvsrvybisgqivsrtsvybsaibqvnibsfbszjhjfdb,
vyjhsjhrdqvbestjospjdd,sqvsvjubh,sfbshbbosgdqjodcsgirkbavjomstirusvyb
hnitqab.sPybosvybshbqsjhsurebiqvbdcsaqdu,sqoeshdjmyvdcsuqi bespjvy
hgybijaqdsijggdbh,sqoesvyjhsmoruro-dj bstjoshvqoehsngsqoesaqhvhshyqerph
ngrosvybspijo dbeshnitqab,sjvsuqcspbddsfbshnggrhbesvyqvsvybspqvbic
ajiadbshniirnoejomsjvshrubpyqvsibhbufdbhsqsejqd,spjvysjvhshvcdbsqoe
pqzcsyrni-djobhsmiqzbesrosjv.sRosvyqvsQyqw-ejqdsvybshyqerpsrtvbosmrbh
fqa .sVybsTjo-Fqa sjhsorvsmibmqijrnh.sYbshbbuhsqspyqdb-yqvbi,sqhshrub
ubosqibsuqo-yqvbih.sZbicshyc;sqdpqchsmrjomshrdjvqic;snobxgbavbedc
ijhjomsvrsvybshnitqabsjosvybsiburvbhvsqoesurhvshnddbospqvbih;syjh
hviqjmyvsqoeshjomdbsdrtvcskbvsijhjomsdj bsqsvqddsujhqovyirgjashgbqi
ngrosqsfqiibosgdqjo;smjtvbespjvyshnaysproeirnhsgrpbisqoeszbdrajvcsjo
hpjuujom,sqhsvrsebtcsqddsgibhbovsgnihnjvstirusuqo;svyjhsdbzjqvyqoshbbuh
vybsfqojhybesqoesnoarolnbiqfdbsAqjosrtsyjhsiqab,sfbqijomstrisyjhsuqi 
vyqvshvcdbsngrosyjhsfqa .sTirusyqzjomsvybsfqdbbosjosyjhsurnvy,svyb
Tjo-Fqa sjhshrubvjubhsjoadnebespjvysvybsijmyvspyqdb,squromsqsvybribvja
hgbajbhseborujoqvbes_Pyqdbfrobspyqdbh_,svyqvsjh,spyqdbhspjvysfqdbbo.sRt
vybhbshrsaqddbesPyqdbfrobspyqdbh,svybibsprndeshbbusvrsfbshbzbiqd
zqijbvjbh,surhvsrtspyjay,syrpbzbi,sqibsdjvvdbs orpo.sFirqe-orhbespyqdbh
qoesfbq bespyqdbh;sgj b-ybqebespyqdbh;sfnoaybespyqdbh;snoebi-kqpbe
pyqdbhsqoesirhviqvbespyqdbh,sqibsvybstjhybiubo’hsoqubhstrisqstbpshrivh.

Josaroobavjrospjvysvyjhsqggbddqvjzbsrts“Pyqdbfrobspyqdbh,”sjvsjhsrt
mibqvsjugrivqoabsvrsubovjro,svyqvsyrpbzbishnaysqsoruboadqvnibsuqcsfb
arozbojbovsjostqajdjvqvjomsqddnhjrohsvrshrubs joesrtspyqdbh,scbvsjvsjh
joszqjosvrsqvvbugvsqsadbqisadqhhjtjaqvjrosrtsvybsDbzjqvyqo,strnoebe
ngrosbjvybisyjhsfqdbbo,srisynug,sristjo,srisvbbvy;sorvpjvyhvqoejomsvyqv
vyrhbsuqi besgqivhsristbqvnibhszbicsrfzjrnhdcshbbusfbvvbisqeqgvbesvr
qttriesvybsfqhjhstrisqsibmndqishchvbusrtsAbvrdrmcsvyqosqocsrvybi
ebvqaybesfrejdcsejhvjoavjroh,spyjaysvybspyqdb,sjosyjhs joeh,sgibhbovh.
Yrpsvybo?sVybsfqdbbo,synug,sfqa -tjo,sqoesvbbvy;svybhbsqibsvyjomhspyrhb
gbandjqijvjbhsqibsjoejhaijujoqvbdcsejhgbihbesquromsqddshrivhsrtspyqdbh,
pjvyrnvsqocsibmqiesvrspyqvsuqcsfbsvybsoqvnibsrtsvybjishvinavnibsjo
rvybisqoesuribsbhhbovjqdsgqivjandqih.sVynh,svybshgbiuspyqdbsqoesvyb
ynugfqa bespyqdb,sbqaysyqhsqsynug;sfnvsvybibsvybshjujdjvnebsabqhbh.
Vybo,svyjhshqubsynugfqa bespyqdbsqoesvybsMibbodqoespyqdb,sbqaysrtsvybhb
yqhsfqdbbo;sfnvsvybibsqmqjosvybshjujdjvnebsabqhbh.sQoesjvsjhsknhvsvyb
hqubspjvysvybsrvybisgqivhsqfrzbsubovjrobe.sJoszqijrnhshrivhsrtspyqdbh,
vybcstriushnaysjiibmndqisarufjoqvjroh;sri,sjosvybsaqhbsrtsqocsrobsrt
vybusebvqaybe,shnaysqosjiibmndqisjhrdqvjro;sqhsnvvbidcsvrsebtcsqdd
mbobiqdsubvyrejwqvjrostriubesngroshnaysqsfqhjh.sRosvyjhsira sbzbicsrob
rtsvybspyqdb-oqvniqdjhvhsyqhshgdjv.

Fnvsjvsuqcsgrhhjfdcsfbsaroabjzbesvyqv,sjosvybsjovbioqdsgqivhsrtsvyb
pyqdb,sjosyjhsqoqvruc—vybib,sqvsdbqhv,spbshyqddsfbsqfdbsvrsyjvsvyb
ijmyvsadqhhjtjaqvjro.sOqc;spyqvsvyjom,strisbxqugdb,sjhsvybibsjosvyb
Mibbodqoespyqdb’hsqoqvrucsuribshvij jomsvyqosyjhsfqdbbo?sCbvspbsyqzb
hbbosvyqvsfcsyjhsfqdbbosjvsjhsjugrhhjfdbsariibavdcsvrsadqhhjtcsvyb
Mibbodqoespyqdb.sQoesjtscrnsebhaboesjovrsvybsfrpbdhsrtsvybszqijrnh
dbzjqvyqoh,spycsvybibscrnspjddsorvstjoesejhvjoavjrohsqstjtvjbvysgqivsqh
qzqjdqfdbsvrsvybshchvbuqvjwbisqhsvyrhbsbxvbioqdsrobhsqdibqec
bonubiqvbe.sPyqvsvybosibuqjoh?sorvyjomsfnvsvrsvq bsyrdesrtsvybspyqdbh
frejdc,sjosvybjisbovjibsdjfbiqdszrdnub,sqoesfrdedcshrivsvybusvyqvspqc.
QoesvyjhsjhsvybsFjfdjrmiqgyjaqdshchvbusybibsqergvbe;sqoesjvsjhsvybsrodc
robsvyqvsaqosgrhhjfdcshnaabbe,strisjvsqdrobsjhsgiqavjaqfdb.sVrsgirabbe.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_)sAYQGVBIsJZ.s(_YnugsFqa _).—Vyjhspyqdbsjhsrtvboshbbo
rosvybsorivybiosQubijaqosarqhv.sYbsyqhsfbbostiblnbovdcsaqgvnibesvybib,
qoesvrpbesjovrsyqifri.sYbsyqhsqsmibqvsgqa srosyjusdj bsqsgbeedbi;sri
crnsujmyvsaqddsyjusvybsBdbgyqovsqoesAqhvdbspyqdb.sQvsqocsiqvb,svyb
grgndqisoqubstrisyjuserbhsorvshnttjajbovdcsejhvjomnjhysyju,shjoabsvyb
hgbiuspyqdbsqdhrsyqhsqsynugsvyrnmysqshuqddbisrob.sYjhsrjdsjhsorvszbic
zqdnqfdb.sYbsyqhsfqdbbo.sYbsjhsvybsurhvsmqubhrubsqoesdjmyv-ybqivbesrt
qddsvybspyqdbh,suq jomsuribsmqcstrqusqoespyjvbspqvbismbobiqddcsvyqosqoc
rvybisrtsvybu.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sAYQGVBIsZ.s(_IqwrisFqa _).—Rtsvyjhspyqdbsdjvvdbsjh
 orposfnvsyjhsoqub.sJsyqzbshbbosyjusqvsqsejhvqoabsrttsAqgbsYrio.sRtsq
ibvjijomsoqvnib,sybsbdnebhsfrvysynovbihsqoesgyjdrhrgybih.sVyrnmysor
arpqie,sybsyqhsobzbiscbvshyrposqocsgqivsrtsyjusfnvsyjhsfqa ,spyjay
ijhbhsjosqsdromshyqigsijemb.sDbvsyjusmr.sJs orpsdjvvdbsuribsrtsyju,sori
erbhsqocfrecsbdhb.

FRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sAYQGVBIsZJ.s(_HndgynisFrvvru_).—Qorvybisibvjijom
mbovdbuqo,spjvysqsfijuhvrobsfbddc,sernfvdbhhsmrvsfcshaiqgjomsqdromsvyb
Vqivqijqosvjdbhsjoshrubsrtsyjhsgirtrnoebisejzjomh.sYbsjhshbderushbbo;
qvsdbqhvsJsyqzbsobzbishbbosyjusbxabgvsjosvybsiburvbishrnvybioshbqh,sqoe
vybosqdpqchsqvsvrrsmibqvsqsejhvqoabsvrshvnecsyjhsarnovboqoab.sYbsjh
obzbisayqhbe;sybsprndesinosqpqcspjvysirgb-pqd hsrtsdjob.sGirejmjbhsqib
vrdesrtsyju.sQejbn,sHndgynisFrvvru!sJsaqoshqcsorvyjomsuribsvyqvsjhsvinb
rtscb,sorisaqosvybsrdebhvsOqovna bvbi.

VynhsboehsFRR sJ.s(_Trdjr_),sqoesorpsfbmjohsFRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_).

RAVQZRBH.*—Vybhbsbufiqabsvybspyqdbhsrtsujeedjomsuqmojvneb,squromspyjay
gibhbovsuqcsfbsonufbibe:—J.,svybs_Miqugnh_;sJJ.,svybs_Fdqa sTjhy_;
JJJ.,svybs_Oqipyqdb_;sJZ.,svybs_Vyiqhybi_;sZ.,svybs_ jddbi_.

*Pycsvyjhsfrr srtspyqdbhsjhsorvseborujoqvbesvybsLnqivrsjhszbicsgdqjo.
Fbaqnhb,spyjdbsvybspyqdbhsrtsvyjhsriebi,svyrnmyshuqddbisvyqosvyrhbsrt
vybstriubisriebi,sobzbivybdbhhsibvqjosqsgirgrivjroqvbsdj bobhhsvrsvybu
jostjmnib,scbvsvybsfrr fjoebi’hsLnqivrszrdnubsjosjvhsejubohjrobestriu
erbhsorvsgibhbizbsvybshyqgbsrtsvybsTrdjrszrdnub,sfnvsvybsRavqzrszrdnub
erbh.

FRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sAYQGVBIsJ.s(_Miqugnh_).—Vyrnmysvyjhstjhy,spyrhb
drneshrorirnhsfibqvyjom,srisiqvybisfdrpjom,syqhstniojhybesqsgirzbifsvr
dqoehubo,sjhshrspbdds orposqsebojwbosrtsvybsebbg,scbvsjhsybsorv
grgndqidcsadqhhbesquromspyqdbh.sFnvsgrhhbhhjomsqddsvybsmiqoe
ejhvjoavjzbstbqvnibhsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqo,surhvsoqvniqdjhvhsyqzbsibarmojhbe
yjustrisrob.sYbsjhsrtsurebiqvbsravqzrshjwb,szqicjomstirustjtvbbosvr
vpbovc-tjzbstbbvsjosdbomvy,sqoesrtsariibhgroejomsejubohjrohsirnoesvyb
pqjhv.sYbshpjuhsjosybieh;sybsjhsobzbisibmndqidcsynovbe,svyrnmysyjhsrjd
jhsarohjebiqfdbsjoslnqovjvc,sqoesgibvvcsmrrestrisdjmyv.sFcshrub
tjhybiubosyjhsqggirqaysjhsibmqiebesqhsgiburojvricsrtsvybsqezqoabsrtsvyb
mibqvshgbiuspyqdb.

FRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sAYQGVBIsJJ.s(_Fdqa sTjhy_).—Jsmjzbsvybsgrgndqi
tjhybiubo’hsoqubhstrisqddsvybhbstjhy,strismbobiqddcsvybcsqibsvybsfbhv.
Pybibsqocsoqubsyqggbohsvrsfbszqmnbsrisjobxgibhhjzb,sJshyqddshqcshr,sqoe
hnmmbhvsqorvybi.sJsershrsorp,svrnayjomsvybsFdqa sTjhy,shr-aqddbe,
fbaqnhbsfdqa obhhsjhsvybsindbsquromsqdurhvsqddspyqdbh.sHr,saqddsyjusvyb
YcboqsPyqdb,sjtscrnsgdbqhb.sYjhszriqajvcsjhspbdds orpo,sqoestirusvyb
ajianuhvqoabsvyqvsvybsjoobisqomdbhsrtsyjhsdjghsqibsanizbesngpqieh,syb
aqiijbhsqosbzbidqhvjomsUbgyjhvrgybdbqosmijosrosyjhstqab.sVyjhspyqdb
qzbiqmbhshrubshjxvbbosrisbjmyvbbostbbvsjosdbomvy.sYbsjhstrnoesjosqdurhv
qddsdqvjvnebh.sYbsyqhsqsgbandjqispqcsrtshyrpjomsyjhserihqdsyrr bestjo
joshpjuujom,spyjaysdrr hshrubvyjomsdj bsqsIruqosorhb.sPybosorvsurib
girtjvqfdcsbugdrcbe,svybshgbiuspyqdbsynovbihshrubvjubhsaqgvnibsvyb
Ycboqspyqdb,svrs bbgsngsvybshnggdcsrtsaybqgsrjdstriserubhvja
bugdrcubov—qhshrubstinmqdsyrnhb bbgbih,sjosvybsqfhboabsrtsarugqoc,sqoe
lnjvbsqdrobsfcsvybuhbdzbh,sfniosnohqzricsvqddrpsjohvbqesrtsrerirnhspqx.
Vyrnmysvybjisfdnffbisjhszbicsvyjo,shrubsrtsvybhbspyqdbhspjddscjbdescrn
ngpqiehsrtsvyjivcsmqddrohsrtsrjd.

FRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sAYQGVBIsJJJ.s(_Oqipyqdb_),svyqvsjh,s_Orhvijd
pyqdb_.—Qorvybisjohvqoabsrtsqsanijrnhdcsoqubespyqdb,shrsoqubesJshnggrhb
tirusyjhsgbandjqisyriosfbjomsrijmjoqddcsujhvq bostrisqsgbq besorhb.sVyb
aibqvnibsjhshrubshjxvbbostbbvsjosdbomvy,spyjdbsjvhsyriosqzbiqmbhstjzb
tbbv,svyrnmyshrubsbxabbesvbo,sqoesbzbosqvvqjosvrstjtvbbostbbv.sHvijavdc
hgbq jom,svyjhsyriosjhsfnvsqsdbomvybobesvnh ,smirpjomsrnvstirusvybskqp
josqsdjobsqsdjvvdbsebgibhhbestirusvybsyrijwrovqd.sFnvsjvsjhsrodcstrnoe
rosvybshjojhvbishjeb,spyjaysyqhsqosjddsbttbav,smjzjomsjvhsrpobi
hrubvyjomsqoqdrmrnhsvrsvybsqhgbavsrtsqsadnuhcsdbtv-yqoebesuqo.sPyqv
gibajhbsgnigrhbsvyjhsjzricsyriosrisdqoabsqohpbih,sjvsprndesfbsyqiesvr
hqc.sJvserbhsorvshbbusvrsfbsnhbesdj bsvybsfdqebsrtsvybshprie-tjhysqoe
fjdd-tjhy;svyrnmyshrubshqjdrihsvbddsubsvyqvsvybsOqipyqdbsbugdrchsjvstri
qsiq bsjosvniojomsrzbisvybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbqstristrre.sAyqidbcsArttjo
hqjesjvspqhsnhbestrisqosjab-gjbiabi;strisvybsOqipyqdb,sijhjomsvrsvyb
hnitqabsrtsvybsGrdqisHbq,sqoestjoejomsjvshybbvbespjvysjab,svyinhvhsyjh
yriosng,sqoeshrsfibq hsvyirnmy.sFnvscrnsaqoorvsgirzbsbjvybisrtsvybhb
hniujhbhsvrsfbsariibav.sUcsrposrgjojrosjh,svyqvsyrpbzbisvyjhsrob-hjebe
yriosuqcsibqddcsfbsnhbesfcsvybsOqipyqdb—yrpbzbisvyqvsuqcsfb—jvsprnde
abivqjodcsfbszbicsarozbojbovsvrsyjustrisqstrdebisjosibqejomsgqugydbvh.
VybsOqipyqdbsJsyqzbsybqiesaqddbesvybsVnh bespyqdb,svybsYriobespyqdb,
qoesvybsNojariospyqdb.sYbsjhsabivqjodcsqsanijrnhsbxqugdbsrtsvyb
Nojariojhusvrsfbstrnoesjosqdurhvsbzbics jomerusrtsqojuqvbesoqvnib.sTiru
abivqjosadrjhvbibesrdesqnvyrihsJsyqzbsmqvybibesvyqvsvyjhshqub
hbq-nojario’hsyriospqhsjosqoajbovseqchsibmqiebesqhsvybsmibqvsqovjervb
qmqjohvsgrjhro,sqoesqhshnay,sgibgqiqvjrohsrtsjvsfirnmyvsjuubohbsgijabh.
Jvspqhsqdhrsejhvjddbesvrsqszrdqvjdbshqdvhstristqjovjomsdqejbh,svybshqub
pqcsvyqvsvybsyriohsrtsvybsuqdbsebbisqibsuqontqavnibesjovrsyqivhyrio.
Rijmjoqddcsjvspqhsjosjvhbdtsqaarnovbesqosrfkbavsrtsmibqvsanijrhjvc.
Fdqa sDbvvbisvbddhsubsvyqvsHjisUqivjosTirfjhybisrosyjhsibvniostirusvyqv
zrcqmb,spybosLnbbosFbhhsejesmqddqovdcspqzbsybiskbpbddbesyqoesvrsyju
tirusqspjoerpsrtsMibbopjaysGqdqab,sqhsyjhsfrdeshyjgshqjdbeserposvyb
Vyqubh;s“pybosHjisUqivjosibvniobestirusvyqvszrcqmb,”shqjvysFdqa 
Dbvvbi,s“rosfboebes obbhsybsgibhbovbesvrsybisyjmyobhhsqsgirejmjrnhsdrom
yriosrtsvybsOqipyqdb,spyjaystrisqsdromsgbijresqtvbisynomsjosvybsaqhvdb
qvsPjoehri.”sQosJijhysqnvyrisqzbihsvyqvsvybsBqidsrtsDbjabhvbi,sro
fboebes obbh,sejesdj bpjhbsgibhbovsvrsybisyjmyobhhsqorvybisyrio,
gbivqjojomsvrsqsdqoesfbqhvsrtsvybsnojariosoqvnib.

VybsOqipyqdbsyqhsqszbicsgjavnibhlnb,sdbrgqie-dj bsdrr ,sfbjomsrtsq
ujd -pyjvbsmirnoesardrni,servvbespjvysirnoesqoesrfdromshgrvhsrtsfdqa .
Yjhsrjdsjhszbicshngbijri,sadbqisqoestjob;sfnvsvybibsjhsdjvvdbsrtsjv,
qoesybsjhshbderusynovbe.sYbsjhsurhvdcstrnoesjosvybsajianugrdqishbqh.

FRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sAYQGVBIsJZ.s(_ jddbi_).—Rtsvyjhspyqdbsdjvvdbsjh
gibajhbdcs orposvrsvybsOqovna bvbi,sqoesorvyjomsqvsqddsvrsvybsgirtbhhbe
oqvniqdjhv.sTiruspyqvsJsyqzbshbbosrtsyjusqvsqsejhvqoab,sJshyrndeshqc
vyqvsybspqhsqfrnvsvybsfjmobhhsrtsqsmiqugnh.sYbsjhszbicshqzqmb—qshrivsrt
Tbbmbbstjhy.sYbshrubvjubhsvq bhsvybsmibqvsTrdjrspyqdbhsfcsvybsdjg,sqoe
yqomhsvybibsdj bsqsdbbay,svjddsvybsujmyvcsfinvbsjhspriijbesvrsebqvy.
Vybs jddbisjhsobzbisynovbe.sJsobzbisybqiespyqvshrivsrtsrjdsybsyqh.
Bxabgvjrosujmyvsfbsvq bosvrsvybsoqubsfbhvrpbesngrosvyjhspyqdb,srosvyb
mirnoesrtsjvhsjoejhvjoavobhh.sTrispbsqibsqdds jddbih,srosdqoesqoesro
hbq;sFroqgqivbhsqoesHyqi hsjoadnebe.

FRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sAYQGVBIsZ.s(_Vyiqhybi_).—Vyjhsmbovdbuqosjhstqurnh
trisyjhsvqjd,spyjaysybsnhbhstrisqstbindbsjosvyiqhyjomsyjhstrbh.sYb
urnovhsvybsTrdjrspyqdb’hsfqa ,sqoesqhsybshpjuh,sybspri hsyjhsgqhhqmbsfc
tdrmmjomsyju;sqhshrubshayrrduqhvbihsmbvsqdromsjosvybspridesfcsqshjujdqi
girabhh.sHvjddsdbhhsjhs orposrtsvybsVyiqhybisvyqosrtsvybs jddbi.sFrvy
qibsrnvdqph,sbzbosjosvybsdqpdbhhshbqh.

sVynhsboehsFRR sJJ.s(_Ravqzr_),sqoesfbmjohsFRR sJJJ.s(_Enrebajur_).

ENREBAJURBH.—Vybhbsjoadnebsvybshuqddbispyqdbh.sJ.sVybsYnwwqsGrigrjhb.
JJ.sVybsQdmbijobsGrigrjhb.sJJJ.sVybsUbqdc-urnvybesGrigrjhb.

Vrsvyrhbspyrsyqzbsorvsayqoabeshgbajqddcsvrshvnecsvybshnfkbav,sjvsuqc
grhhjfdcshbbushviqomb,svyqvstjhybhsorvsaruurodcsbxabbejomstrnisristjzb
tbbvshyrndesfbsuqihyqddbesquromsPYQDBH—qsprie,spyjay,sjosvybsgrgndqi
hbohb,sqdpqchsarozbchsqosjebqsrtsynmbobhh.sFnvsvybsaibqvnibhshbvserpo
qfrzbsqhsEnrebajurbhsqibsjotqddjfdcspyqdbh,sfcsvybsvbiuhsrtsuc
ebtjojvjrosrtspyqvsqspyqdbsjh—_j.b._sqshgrnvjomstjhy,spjvysqsyrijwrovqd
vqjd.

FRR sJJJ.s(_Enrebajur_),sAYQGVBIs1.s(_YnwwqsGrigrjhb_).—Vyjhsjhsvyb
aruurosgrigrjhbstrnoesqdurhvsqddsrzbisvybsmdrfb.sVybsoqubsjhsrtsucsrpo
fbhvrpqd;strisvybibsqibsuribsvyqosrobshrivsrtsgrigrjhbh,sqoeshrubvyjom
unhvsfbserobsvrsejhvjomnjhysvybu.sJsaqddsyjusvynh,sfbaqnhbsybsqdpqch
hpjuhsjosyjdqijrnhshyrqdh,spyjaysngrosvybsfirqeshbqs bbgsvrhhjom
vybuhbdzbhsvrsybqzbosdj bsaqghsjosqsTrnivy-rt-Kndcsairpe.sVybji
qggbqiqoabsjhsmbobiqddcsyqjdbespjvysebdjmyvsfcsvybsuqijobi.sTnddsrt
tjobshgjijvh,svybcsjozqijqfdcsarubstirusvybsfibbwcsfjddrphsvrspjoepqie.
Vybcsqibsvybsdqehsvyqvsqdpqchsdjzbsfbtribsvybspjoe.sVybcsqibsqaarnovbe
qsdna csrubo.sJtscrnscrnihbdtsaqospjvyhvqoesvyibbsaybbihsqvsfbyrdejom
vybhbszjzqajrnhstjhy,svybosybqzbosybdgscb;svybshgjijvsrtsmredc
mqubhrubobhhsjhsorvsjoscb.sQspbdd-tbe,sgdnugsYnwwqsGrigrjhbspjddscjbde
crnsrobsmrresmqddrosrtsmrresrjd.sFnvsvybstjobsqoesebdjaqvbstdnje
bxviqavbestirusyjhskqphsjhsbxabbejomdcszqdnqfdb.sJvsjhsjosiblnbhvsqurom
kbpbddbihsqoespqvayuq bih.sHqjdrihsgnvsjvsrosvybjisyrobh.sGrigrjhbsubqv
jhsmrresbqvjom,scrns orp.sJvsuqcsobzbisyqzbsraaniibesvrscrnsvyqvsq
grigrjhbshgrnvh.sJoebbe,syjhshgrnvsjhshrshuqddsvyqvsjvsjhsorvszbic
ibqejdcsejhabiojfdb.sFnvsvybsobxvsvjubscrnsyqzbsqsayqoab,spqvaysyju;
qoescrnspjddsvyboshbbsvybsmibqvsHgbiuspyqdbsyjuhbdtsjosujojqvnib.

FRR sJJJ.s(_Enrebajur_),sAYQGVBIsJJ.s(_QdmbijobsGrigrjhb_).—Qsgjiqvb.
Zbicshqzqmb.sYbsjhsrodcstrnoe,sJsvyjo ,sjosvybsGqajtja.sYbsjhshrubpyqv
dqimbisvyqosvybsYnwwqsGrigrjhb,sfnvsunaysrtsvybshqubsmbobiqdsuq b.
Girzr bsyju,sqoesybspjddsfna dbsvrsqshyqi .sJsyqzbsdrpbibestrisyjusuqoc
vjubh,sfnvsobzbiscbvshqpsyjusaqgvnibe.

FRR sJJJ.s(_Enrebajur_),sAYQGVBIsJJJ.s(_Ubqdc-urnvybesGrigrjhb_).—Vyb
dqimbhvs joesrtsGrigrjhb;sqoesrodcstrnoesjosvybsGqajtja,shrstqisqhsjv
jhs orpo.sVybsrodcsBomdjhysoqub,sfcspyjaysybsyqhsyjvybivrsfbbo
ebhjmoqvbe,sjhsvyqvsrtsvybstjhybih—Ijmyv-PyqdbsGrigrjhb,stirusvyb
ajianuhvqoabsvyqvsybsjhsayjbtdcstrnoesjosvybszjajojvcsrtsvyqvsTrdjr.sJo
hyqgb,sybsejttbihsjoshrubsebmibbstirusvybsYnwwqsGrigrjhb,sfbjomsrtsq
dbhhsirvnoesqoeskrddcsmjivy;sjoebbe,sybsjhsrtslnjvbsqsobqvsqoe
mbovdbuqo-dj bstjmnib.sYbsyqhsorstjohsrosyjhsfqa s(urhvsrvybisgrigrjhbh
yqzb),sybsyqhsqsdrzbdcsvqjd,sqoeshbovjubovqdsJoejqosbcbhsrtsqsyqwbd
ynb.sFnvsyjhsubqdc-urnvyshgrjdhsqdd.sVyrnmysyjhsbovjibsfqa serposvrsyjh
hjebstjohsjhsrtsqsebbgshqfdb,scbvsqsfrnoeqicsdjob,sejhvjoavsqhsvybsuqi 
josqshyjg’hsyndd,saqddbesvybs“fijmyvspqjhv,”svyqvsdjobshvibq hsyjustiru
hvbusvrshvbio,spjvysvprshbgqiqvbsardrnih,sfdqa sqfrzbsqoespyjvbsfbdrp.
Vybspyjvbsarugijhbhsgqivsrtsyjhsybqe,sqoesvybspyrdbsrtsyjhsurnvy,spyjay
uq bhsyjusdrr sqhsjtsybsyqesknhvsbhaqgbestirusqstbdrojrnhszjhjvsvrsq
ubqd-fqm.sQsurhvsubqosqoesubqdcsqhgbav!sYjhsrjdsjhsunaysdj bsvyqvsrt
vybsaruurosgrigrjhb.

ss*s*s*s*s*s*

FbcroesvybsENREBAJUR,svyjhshchvbuserbhsorvsgirabbe,sjoqhunaysqhsvyb
Grigrjhbsjhsvybshuqddbhvsrtsvybspyqdbh.sQfrzb,scrnsyqzbsqddsvyb
Dbzjqvyqohsrtsorvb.sFnvsvybibsqibsqsiqffdbsrtsnoabivqjo,stnmjvjzb,
yqdt-tqfndrnhspyqdbh,spyjay,sqhsqosQubijaqospyqdbuqo,sJs orpsfc
ibgnvqvjro,sfnvsorvsgbihroqddc.sJshyqddsbonubiqvbsvybusfcsvybji
trib-aqhvdbsqggbddqvjroh;strisgrhhjfdcshnaysqsdjhvsuqcsfbszqdnqfdbsvr
tnvnibsjozbhvjmqvrih,spyrsuqcsarugdbvbspyqvsJsyqzbsybibsfnvsfbmno.sJt
qocsrtsvybstrddrpjomspyqdbh,shyqddsybibqtvbisfbsaqnmyvsqoesuqi be,svybo
ybsaqosibqejdcsfbsjoarigriqvbesjovrsvyjhsHchvbu,sqaariejomsvrsyjh
Trdjr,sRavqzr,srisEnrebajursuqmojvneb:—VybsFrvvdb-OrhbsPyqdb;svybsKno 
Pyqdb;svybsGneejom-YbqebesPyqdb;svybsAqgbsPyqdb;svybsDbqejomsPyqdb;svyb
AqoorosPyqdb;svybsHaiqmmsPyqdb;svybsArggbibesPyqdb;svybsBdbgyqovsPyqdb;
vybsJabfbimsPyqdb;svybsLnrmsPyqdb;svybsFdnbsPyqdb;sbva.sTirusJabdqoeja,
Envay,sqoesrdesBomdjhysqnvyrijvjbh,svybibsujmyvsfbslnrvbesrvybisdjhvh
rtsnoabivqjospyqdbh,sfdbhhbespjvysqddsuqoobisrtsnoarnvysoqubh.sFnvsJ
rujvsvybusqhsqdvrmbvybisrfhrdbvb;sqoesaqosyqiedcsybdgshnhgbavjomsvybu
trisubibshrnoeh,stnddsrtsDbzjqvyqojhu,sfnvshjmojtcjomsorvyjom.

Tjoqddc:sJvspqhshvqvbesqvsvybsrnvhbv,svyqvsvyjhshchvbusprndesorvsfb
ybib,sqoesqvsroab,sgbitbavbe.sCrnsaqoorvsfnvsgdqjodcshbbsvyqvsJsyqzb
 bgvsucsprie.sFnvsJsorpsdbqzbsucsabvrdrmjaqdsHchvbushvqoejomsvynh
notjojhybe,sbzbosqhsvybsmibqvsAqvybeiqdsrtsArdrmobspqhsdbtv,spjvysvyb
aiqobshvjddshvqoejomsngrosvybsvrgsrtsvybsnoarugdbvbesvrpbi.sTrishuqdd
bibavjrohsuqcsfbstjojhybesfcsvybjistjihvsqiayjvbavh;smiqoesrobh,svinb
robh,sbzbisdbqzbsvybsargbhvrobsvrsgrhvbijvc.sMres bbgsubstirusbzbi
arugdbvjomsqocvyjom.sVyjhspyrdbsfrr sjhsfnvsqseiqnmyv—oqc,sfnvsvyb
eiqnmyvsrtsqseiqnmyv.sRy,sVjub,sHvibomvy,sAqhy,sqoesGqvjboab!


AYQGVBIs33.sVybsHgba hocebi.

Aroabiojomsvybsrttjabihsrtsvybspyqdb-aiqtv,svyjhshbbuhsqhsmrresqsgdqab
qhsqocsvrshbvserposqsdjvvdbserubhvjasgbandjqijvcsroshyjg-frqie,sqijhjom
tirusvybsbxjhvboabsrtsvybsyqigrrobbisadqhhsrtsrttjabih,sqsadqhhsno orpo
rtsarnihbsjosqocsrvybisuqijobsvyqosvybspyqdb-tdbbv.

Vybsdqimbsjugrivqoabsqvvqaybesvrsvybsyqigrrobbi’hszraqvjrosjhsbzjoabe
fcsvybstqav,svyqvsrijmjoqddcsjosvybsrdesEnvaysTjhybic,svprsabovnijbh
qoesuribsqmr,svybsaruuqoesrtsqspyqdbshyjgspqhsorvspyrddcsdrembesjosvyb
gbihrosorpsaqddbesvybsaqgvqjo,sfnvspqhsejzjebesfbvpbbosyjusqoesqo
rttjabisaqddbesvybsHgba hocebi.sDjvbiqddcsvyjhspriesubqohsTqv-Anvvbi;
nhqmb,syrpbzbi,sjosvjubsuqebsjvsblnjzqdbovsvrsAyjbtsYqigrrobbi.sJo
vyrhbseqch,svybsaqgvqjo’hsqnvyrijvcspqhsibhvijavbesvrsvybsoqzjmqvjro
qoesmbobiqdsuqoqmbubovsrtsvybszbhhbd;spyjdbsrzbisvybspyqdb-ynovjom
ebgqivubovsqoesqddsjvhsaroabioh,svybsHgba hocebisrisAyjbtsYqigrrobbi
ibjmobeshngibub.sJosvybsFijvjhysMibbodqoesTjhybic,snoebisvybsariingvbe
vjvdbsrtsHgba hjrobbi,svyjhsrdesEnvaysrttjajqdsjhshvjddsibvqjobe,sfnv
yjhstriubisejmojvcsjhshqedcsqfijembe.sQvsgibhbovsybsiqo hshjugdcsqh
hbojrisYqigrrobbi;sqoesqhshnay,sjhsfnvsrobsrtsvybsaqgvqjo’hsurib
jotbijrishnfqdvbioh.sObzbivybdbhh,sqhsngrosvybsmrresaroenavsrtsvyb
yqigrrobbihsvybshnaabhhsrtsqspyqdjomszrcqmbsdqimbdcsebgboeh,sqoeshjoab
josvybsQubijaqosTjhybicsybsjhsorvsrodcsqosjugrivqovsrttjabisjosvyb
frqv,sfnvsnoebisabivqjosajianuhvqoabhs(ojmyvspqvaybhsrosqspyqdjom
mirnoe)svybsaruuqoesrtsvybshyjg’hseba sjhsqdhrsyjh;svybibtribsvybsmiqoe
grdjvjaqdsuqxjusrtsvybshbqsebuqoeh,svyqvsybshyrndesorujoqddcsdjzbsqgqiv
tirusvybsubosfbtribsvybsuqhv,sqoesfbsjoshrubspqcsejhvjomnjhybesqhsvybji
girtbhhjroqdshngbijri;svyrnmysqdpqch,sfcsvybu,stqujdjqidcsibmqiebesqh
vybjishrajqdsblnqd.

Orp,svybsmiqoesejhvjoavjroseiqposfbvpbbosrttjabisqoesuqosqvshbq,sjh
vyjh—vybstjihvsdjzbhsqtv,svybsdqhvstripqie.sYboab,sjospyqdb-hyjghsqoe
ubiayqovubosqdj b,svybsuqvbhsyqzbsvybjislnqivbihspjvysvybsaqgvqjo;sqoe
hr,svrr,sjosurhvsrtsvybsQubijaqospyqdbihsvybsyqigrrobbihsqibsdrembesjo
vybsqtvbisgqivsrtsvybshyjg.sVyqvsjhsvrshqc,svybcsvq bsvybjisubqdhsjo
vybsaqgvqjo’hsaqfjo,sqoeshdbbgsjosqsgdqabsjoejibavdcsaruunojaqvjomspjvy
jv.

VyrnmysvybsdromsgbijresrtsqsHrnvybiospyqdjomszrcqmbs(fcstqisvybsdrombhv
rtsqddszrcqmbhsorpsrisbzbisuqebsfcsuqo),svybsgbandjqisgbijdhsrtsjv,sqoe
vybsaruunojvcsrtsjovbibhvsgibzqjdjomsquromsqsarugqoc,sqddsrtspyru,syjmy
risdrp,sebgboestrisvybjisgirtjvh,sorvsngrostjxbespqmbh,sfnvsngrosvybji
aruurosdna ,svrmbvybispjvysvybjisaruuroszjmjdqoab,sjovibgjejvc,sqoe
yqiespri ;svyrnmysqddsvybhbsvyjomhsersjoshrubsaqhbhsvboesvrsfbmbvsq
dbhhsijmrirnhsejhajgdjobsvyqosjosubiayqovubosmbobiqddc;scbv,sobzbisujoe
yrpsunaysdj bsqosrdesUbhrgrvqujqostqujdcsvybhbspyqdbubosuqc,sjoshrub
gijujvjzbsjohvqoabh,sdjzbsvrmbvybi;strisqddsvyqv,svybsgnoavjdjrnh
bxvbioqdh,sqvsdbqhv,srtsvybslnqivbi-eba sqibshbderusuqvbijqddcsibdqxbe,
qoesjosorsjohvqoabserobsqpqc.sJoebbe,suqocsqibsvybsOqovna bvshyjghsjo
pyjayscrnspjddshbbsvybsh jggbisgqiqejomsyjhslnqivbi-eba spjvysqosbdqvbe
miqoebnisorvshnigqhhbesjosqocsujdjvqicsoqzc;soqc,sbxvrivjomsqdurhvsqh
unaysrnvpqiesyruqmbsqhsjtsybspribsvybsjugbijqdsgnigdb,sqoesorvsvyb
hyqffjbhvsrtsgjdrv-adrvy.

QoesvyrnmysrtsqddsubosvybsurrecsaqgvqjosrtsvybsGblnrespqhsvybsdbqhv
mjzbosvrsvyqvshrivsrtshyqddrpbhvsqhhnugvjro;sqoesvyrnmysvybsrodcsyruqmb
ybsbzbisbxqavbe,spqhsjugdjajv,sjohvqovqobrnhsrfbejboab;svyrnmysyb
iblnjibesorsuqosvrsiburzbsvybshyrbhstirusyjhstbbvsbibshvbggjomsngrosvyb
lnqivbi-eba ;sqoesvyrnmysvybibspbibsvjubhspybo,srpjomsvrsgbandjqi
ajianuhvqoabhsaroobavbespjvysbzbovhsybibqtvbisvrsfbsebvqjdbe,syb
qeeibhhbesvybusjosnonhnqdsvbiuh,spybvybisrtsaroebhabohjrosris_jo
vbiiribu_,srisrvybipjhb;scbvsbzbosAqgvqjosQyqfspqhsfcsorsubqoh
norfhbizqovsrtsvybsgqiqurnovstriuhsqoesnhqmbhsrtsvybshbq.

Ori,sgbiyqgh,spjddsjvstqjdsvrsfbsbzbovnqddcsgbiabjzbe,svyqvsfbyjoe
vyrhbstriuhsqoesnhqmbh,sqhsjvspbib,sybshrubvjubhsuqh besyjuhbdt;
joajebovqddcsuq jomsnhbsrtsvybustrisrvybisqoesuribsgijzqvbsboehsvyqo
vybcspbibsdbmjvjuqvbdcsjovboebesvrshnfhbizb.sVyqvsabivqjoshndvqojhusrt
yjhsfiqjo,spyjaysyqesrvybipjhbsjosqsmrresebmibbsibuqjobesnouqojtbhvbe;
vyirnmysvyrhbstriuhsvyqvshqubshndvqojhusfbaqubsjoaqioqvbsjosqo
jiibhjhvjfdbsejavqvrihyjg.sTrisfbsqsuqo’hsjovbddbavnqdshngbijrijvcspyqv
jvspjdd,sjvsaqosobzbisqhhnubsvybsgiqavjaqd,sqzqjdqfdbshngibuqacsrzbi
rvybisubo,spjvyrnvsvybsqjesrtshrubshrivsrtsbxvbioqdsqivhsqoe
boviboayubovh,sqdpqch,sjosvybuhbdzbh,suribsrisdbhhsgqdvicsqoesfqhb.
Vyjhsjvsjh,svyqvstrisbzbis bbghsMre’hsvinbsgijoabhsrtsvybsBugjibstiru
vybspride’hsynhvjomh;sqoesdbqzbhsvybsyjmybhvsyrorihsvyqvsvyjhsqjisaqo
mjzb,svrsvyrhbsubospyrsfbarubstqurnhsuribsvyirnmysvybjisjotjojvb
jotbijrijvcsvrsvybsayrjabsyjeebosyqoetndsrtsvybsEjzjobsJobiv,svyqo
vyirnmysvybjisnoernfvbeshngbijrijvcsrzbisvybsebqesdbzbdsrtsvybsuqhh.
Hnaysdqimbszjivnbsdni hsjosvybhbshuqddsvyjomhspybosbxvibubsgrdjvjaqd
hngbihvjvjrohsjozbhvsvybu,svyqvsjoshrubsircqdsjohvqoabhsbzbosvrsjejrv
jufbajdjvcsvybcsyqzbsjugqivbesgrvboac.sFnvspybo,sqhsjosvybsaqhbsrt
OjayrdqhsvybsAwqi,svybsijombesairposrtsmbrmiqgyjaqdsbugjibsboajiadbhsqo
jugbijqdsfiqjo;svybo,svybsgdbfbjqosybiehsairnaysqfqhbesfbtribsvyb
vibuboernhsaboviqdjwqvjro.sOri,spjddsvybsviqmjaseiquqvjhvspyrsprnde
ebgjavsurivqdsjoerujvqfdbobhhsjosjvhstnddbhvshpbbgsqoesejibavshpjom,
bzbistrimbvsqsyjov,sjoajebovqddcshrsjugrivqovsjosyjhsqiv,sqhsvybsrob
orpsqddnebesvr.

FnvsQyqf,sucsAqgvqjo,shvjddsurzbhsfbtribsubsjosqddsyjhsOqovna bv
mijuobhhsqoeshyqmmjobhh;sqoesjosvyjhsbgjhrebsvrnayjomsBugbirihsqoe
 jomh,sJsunhvsorvsaroabqdsvyqvsJsyqzbsrodcsvrserspjvysqsgrrisrde
pyqdb-ynovbisdj bsyju;sqoe,svybibtrib,sqddsrnvpqiesuqkbhvjaqdsviqggjomh
qoesyrnhjomhsqibsebojbesub.sRy,sQyqf!spyqvshyqddsfbsmiqoesjosvybb,sjv
unhvsobbehsfbsgdna besqvstirusvybsh jbh,sqoesejzbestrisjosvybsebbg,sqoe
tbqvnibesjosvybsnofrejbesqji!


AYQGVBIs34.sVybsAqfjo-Vqfdb.

Jvsjhsorro;sqoesErnmy-Frc,svybshvbpqie,svyinhvjomsyjhsgqdb
drqt-rt-fibqestqabstirusvybsaqfjo-hanvvdb,sqoornoabhsejoobisvrsyjhsdrie
qoesuqhvbi;spyr,shjvvjomsjosvybsdbbslnqivbi-frqv,syqhsknhvsfbbosvq jom
qosrfhbizqvjrosrtsvybshno;sqoesjhsorpsunvbdcsiba rojomsvybsdqvjvnebsro
vybshurrvy,subeqddjro-hyqgbesvqfdbv,sibhbizbestrisvyqvseqjdcsgnigrhbsro
vybsnggbisgqivsrtsyjhsjzricsdbm.sTirusyjhsarugdbvbsjoqvvbovjrosvrsvyb
vjejomh,scrnsprndesvyjo svyqvsurrecsQyqfsyqesorvsybqiesyjhsubojqd.sFnv
gibhbovdc,saqvayjomsyrdesrtsvybsujwboshyirneh,sybshpjomhsyjuhbdtsvrsvyb
eba ,sqoesjosqosbzbo,snobxyjdqiqvbeszrjab,shqcjom,s“Ejoobi,sUi.
Hvqifna ,”sejhqggbqihsjovrsvybsaqfjo.

Pybosvybsdqhvsbayrsrtsyjhshndvqo’hshvbgsyqhsejbesqpqc,sqoesHvqifna ,
vybstjihvsBuji,syqhsbzbicsibqhrosvrshnggrhbsvyqvsybsjhshbqvbe,svybo
Hvqifna sirnhbhstirusyjhslnjbvneb,svq bhsqstbpsvniohsqdromsvybsgdqo h,
qoe,sqtvbisqsmiqzbsgbbgsjovrsvybsfjooqadb,shqch,spjvyshrubsvrnaysrt
gdbqhqovobhh,s“Ejoobi,sUi.sHvnff,”sqoesebhaboehsvybshanvvdb.sVybshbaroe
Bujisdrnombhsqfrnvsvybsijmmjomsqpyjdb,sqoesvyboshdjmyvdcshyq jomsvyb
uqjosfiqab,svrshbbspybvybisjvspjddsfbsqddsijmyvspjvysvyqvsjugrivqov
irgb,sybsdj bpjhbsvq bhsngsvybsrdesfniebo,sqoespjvysqsiqgjes“Ejoobi,
Ui.sTdqh ,”strddrphsqtvbisyjhsgibebabhhrih.

FnvsvybsvyjiesBuji,sorpshbbjomsyjuhbdtsqddsqdrobsrosvybslnqivbi-eba ,
hbbuhsvrstbbdsibdjbzbestirushrubsanijrnhsibhviqjov;stri,svjggjomsqdd
hrivhsrts orpjomspjo hsjosqddshrivhsrtsejibavjroh,sqoes ja jomsrttsyjh
hyrbh,sybshvij bhsjovrsqshyqigsfnvsorjhbdbhhshlnqddsrtsqsyriogjgbsijmyv
rzbisvybsMiqoesVni ’hsybqe;sqoesvybo,sfcsqsebxvbirnhshdbjmyv,sgjvayjom
yjhsaqgsngsjovrsvybsujwbovrgstrisqshybdt,sybsmrbhserposirddja jomshr
tqisqvsdbqhvsqhsybsibuqjohszjhjfdbstirusvybseba ,sibzbihjomsqddsrvybi
girabhhjroh,sfcsfijomjomsngsvybsibqispjvysunhja.sFnvsbibshvbggjomsjovr
vybsaqfjoserripqcsfbdrp,sybsgqnhbh,shyjghsqsobpstqabsqdvrmbvybi,sqoe,
vybo,sjoebgboebov,syjdqijrnhsdjvvdbsTdqh sbovbihs jomsQyqf’hsgibhboab,
josvybsayqiqavbisrtsQfkbavnh,srisvybsHdqzb.

Jvsjhsorvsvybsdbqhvsquromsvybshviqombsvyjomhsfibesfcsvybsjovbohb
qivjtjajqdobhhsrtshbq-nhqmbh,svyqvspyjdbsjosvybsrgbosqjisrtsvybseba 
hrubsrttjabihspjdd,sngrosgirzraqvjro,sfbqisvybuhbdzbhsfrdedcsqoe
ebtcjomdcsbornmysvrpqiehsvybjisaruuqoebi;scbv,svbosvrsrob,sdbvsvyrhb
zbicsrttjabihsvybsobxvsurubovsmrserposvrsvybjisanhvruqicsejoobisjosvyqv
hqubsaruuqoebi’hsaqfjo,sqoeshviqjmyvpqcsvybjisjorttbohjzb,sorvsvrshqc
ebgibaqvricsqoesynufdbsqjisvrpqiehsyju,sqhsybshjvhsqvsvybsybqesrtsvyb
vqfdb;svyjhsjhsuqizbddrnh,shrubvjubhsurhvsarujaqd.sPybibtribsvyjh
ejttbiboab?sQsgirfdbu?sGbiyqghsorv.sVrsyqzbsfbbosFbdhyqwwqi,s jomsrt
Fqfcdro;sqoesvrsyqzbsfbbosFbdhyqwwqi,sorvsyqnmyvjdcsfnvsarnivbrnhdc,
vybibjosabivqjodcsunhvsyqzbsfbboshrubsvrnaysrtsunoeqobsmiqoebni.sFnvsyb
pyrsjosvybsijmyvdcsibmqdsqoesjovbddjmbovshgjijvsgibhjebhsrzbisyjhsrpo
gijzqvbsejoobi-vqfdbsrtsjozjvbesmnbhvh,svyqvsuqo’hsnoayqddbombesgrpbi
qoeserujojrosrtsjoejzjenqdsjotdnboabstrisvybsvjub;svyqvsuqo’hsircqdvc
rtshvqvbsviqohaboehsFbdhyqwwqi’h,strisFbdhyqwwqispqhsorvsvybsmibqvbhv.
Pyrsyqhsfnvsroabsejobesyjhstijboeh,syqhsvqhvbespyqvsjvsjhsvrsfbsAæhqi.
Jvsjhsqspjvaybicsrtshrajqdsawqihyjgspyjaysvybibsjhsorspjvyhvqoejom.
Orp,sjtsvrsvyjhsarohjebiqvjroscrnshngbiqeesvybsrttjajqdshngibuqacsrtsq
hyjg-uqhvbi,svybo,sfcsjotbiboab,scrnspjddsebijzbsvybsaqnhbsrtsvyqv
gbandjqijvcsrtshbq-djtbsknhvsubovjrobe.

Rzbisyjhsjzric-jodqjesvqfdb,sQyqfsgibhjebesdj bsqsunvb,suqobeshbq-djro
rosvybspyjvbsariqdsfbqay,shniirnoebesfcsyjhspqidj bsfnvshvjdd
ebtbibovjqdsanfh.sJosyjhsrposgirgbisvnio,sbqaysrttjabispqjvbesvrsfb
hbizbe.sVybcspbibsqhsdjvvdbsayjdeibosfbtribsQyqf;sqoescbv,sjosQyqf,
vybibshbbubesorvsvrsdni svybshuqddbhvshrajqdsqiirmqoab.sPjvysrobsujoe,
vybjisjovbovsbcbhsqddstqhvbobesngrosvybsrdesuqo’hs ojtb,sqhsybsaqizbe
vybsayjbtsejhysfbtribsyju.sJsersorvshnggrhbsvyqvstrisvybspridesvybc
prndesyqzbsgirtqobesvyqvsurubovspjvysvybshdjmyvbhvsrfhbizqvjro,sbzbo
ngroshrsobnviqdsqsvrgjasqhsvybspbqvybi.sOr!sQoespybosibqayjomsrnvsyjh
 ojtbsqoestri ,sfbvpbbospyjaysvybshdjabsrtsfbbtspqhsdra be,sQyqf
vybibfcsurvjrobesHvqifna ’hsgdqvbsvrpqiehsyju,svybsuqvbsibabjzbesyjh
ubqvsqhsvyrnmysibabjzjomsqduh;sqoesanvsjvsvboebidc;sqoesqsdjvvdb
hvqivbesjt,sgbiayqoab,svybs ojtbsmiqwbesqmqjohvsvybsgdqvb;sqoesaybpbe
jvsorjhbdbhhdc;sqoeshpqddrpbesjv,sorvspjvyrnvsajianuhgbavjro.sTri,sdj b
vybsAriroqvjrosfqolnbvsqvsTiqo triv,spybibsvybsMbiuqosBugbiri
girtrnoedcsejobhspjvysvybshbzbosJugbijqdsBdbavrih,shrsvybhbsaqfjosubqdh
pbibshrubyrpshrdbuosubqdh,sbqvbosjosqptndshjdboab;sqoescbvsqvsvqfdbsrde
Qyqfstrifqebsorvsarozbihqvjro;srodcsybsyjuhbdtspqhsenuf.sPyqvsqsibdjbt
jvspqhsvrsayr jomsHvnff,spybosqsiqvsuqebsqshneebosiqa bvsjosvybsyrde
fbdrp.sQoesgrrisdjvvdbsTdqh ,sybspqhsvybscrnombhvshro,sqoesdjvvdbsfrc
rtsvyjhspbqicstqujdcsgqivc.sYjhspbibsvybshyjofrobhsrtsvybshqdjobsfbbt;
yjhsprndesyqzbsfbbosvybseinuhvja h.sTrisTdqh svrsyqzbsgibhnubesvrsybdg
yjuhbdt,svyjhsunhvsyqzbshbbubesvrsyjusvqovqurnovsvrsdqiabocsjosvyb
tjihvsebmibb.sYqesybsybdgbesyjuhbdtsqvsvyqvsvqfdb,sernfvdbhh,sobzbi
uribsprndesybsyqzbsfbbosqfdbsvrsyrdesyjhsybqesngsjosvyjhsyrobhvspride;
obzbivybdbhh,shviqombsvrshqc,sQyqfsobzbistrifqebsyju.sQoesyqesTdqh 
ybdgbesyjuhbdt,svybsayqoabhspbibsQyqfsyqesobzbishrsunaysqhsorvjabesjv.
Dbqhvsrtsqdd,sejesTdqh sgibhnubsvrsybdgsyjuhbdtsvrsfnvvbi.sPybvybisyb
vyrnmyvsvybsrpobihsrtsvybshyjgsebojbesjvsvrsyju,srosqaarnovsrtsjvh
adrvvjomsyjhsadbqi,shnoocsarugdbxjro;srispybvybisybsebbubesvyqv,sroshr
dromsqszrcqmbsjoshnaysuqi bvdbhhspqvbih,sfnvvbispqhsqvsqsgibujnu,sqoe
vybibtribspqhsorvstrisyju,sqshnfqdvbio;syrpbzbisjvspqh,sTdqh ,sqdqh!
pqhsqsfnvvbidbhhsuqo!

Qorvybisvyjom.sTdqh spqhsvybsdqhvsgbihroserposqvsvybsejoobi,sqoesTdqh 
jhsvybstjihvsuqosng.sArohjebi!sTrisybibfcsTdqh ’hsejoobispqhsfqedc
kquubesjosgrjovsrtsvjub.sHvqifna sqoesHvnffsfrvysyqesvybshvqivsrtsyju;
qoescbvsvybcsqdhrsyqzbsvybsgijzjdbmbsrtsdrnomjomsjosvybsibqi.sJtsHvnff
bzbo,spyrsjhsfnvsqsgbmsyjmybisvyqosTdqh ,syqggbohsvrsyqzbsfnvsqshuqdd
qggbvjvb,sqoeshrroshyrphshcugvruhsrtsaroadnejomsyjhsibgqhv,svybosTdqh 
unhvsfbhvjisyjuhbdt,sybspjddsorvsmbvsuribsvyqosvyibbsurnvytndhsvyqv
eqc;strisjvsjhsqmqjohvsyrdcsnhqmbstrisHvnffsvrsgibabebsTdqh svrsvyb
eba .sVybibtribsjvspqhsvyqvsTdqh sroabsqeujvvbesjosgijzqvb,svyqvsbzbi
hjoabsybsyqesqijhbosvrsvybsejmojvcsrtsqosrttjabi,stirusvyqvsurubovsyb
yqesobzbis orpospyqvsjvspqhsvrsfbsrvybipjhbsvyqosynomic,suribsrisdbhh.
Trispyqvsybsqvbsejesorvshrsunaysibdjbzbsyjhsynombi,sqhs bbgsjvsjuurivqd
josyju.sGbqabsqoeshqvjhtqavjro,svyrnmyvsTdqh ,syqzbstrisbzbisebgqivbe
tirusucshvruqay.sJsqusqosrttjabi;sfnv,syrpsJspjhysJsarndestjhysqsfjvsrt
rde-tqhyjrobesfbbtsjosvybstribaqhvdb,sqhsJsnhbesvrspybosJspqhsfbtrib
vybsuqhv.sVybib’hsvybstinjvhsrtsgirurvjrosorp;svybib’hsvybszqojvcsrt
mdric:svybib’hsvybsjohqojvcsrtsdjtb!sFbhjebh,sjtsjvspbibshrsvyqvsqoc
ubibshqjdrisrtsvybsGblnresyqesqsminembsqmqjohvsTdqh sjosTdqh ’h
rttjajqdsaqgqajvc,sqddsvyqvshqjdrisyqesvrser,sjosriebisvrsrfvqjosqugdb
zbombqoab,spqhsvrsmrsqtvsqvsejoobi-vjub,sqoesmbvsqsgbbgsqvsTdqh 
vyirnmysvybsaqfjosh c-djmyv,shjvvjomshjddcsqoesenutrnoebibesfbtrib
qptndsQyqf.

Orp,sQyqfsqoesyjhsvyibbsuqvbhstriubespyqvsuqcsfbsaqddbesvybstjihvsvqfdb
josvybsGblnre’hsaqfjo.sQtvbisvybjisebgqivnib,svq jomsgdqabsjosjozbivbe
riebisvrsvybjisqiijzqd,svybsaqozqhsadrvyspqhsadbqibe,srisiqvybispqh
ibhvribesvrshrubsyniijbesriebisfcsvybsgqddjeshvbpqie.sQoesvybosvyb
vyibbsyqigrrobbihspbibsfjeebosvrsvybstbqhv,svybcsfbjomsjvhsibhjenqic
dbmqvbbh.sVybcsuqebsqshrivsrtsvbugriqicshbizqovh’syqddsrtsvybsyjmysqoe
ujmyvcsaqfjo.

Joshviqombsaroviqhvsvrsvybsyqiedcsvrdbiqfdbsarohviqjovsqoesoqubdbhh
jozjhjfdbserujobbijomhsrtsvybsaqgvqjo’hsvqfdb,spqhsvybsbovjibsaqib-tibb
djabohbsqoesbqhb,svybsqdurhvstiqovjaseburaiqacsrtsvyrhbsjotbijri
tbddrphsvybsyqigrrobbih.sPyjdbsvybjisuqhvbih,svybsuqvbh,shbbubesqtiqje
rtsvybshrnoesrtsvybsyjombhsrtsvybjisrposkqph,svybsyqigrrobbihsaybpbe
vybjistrrespjvyshnaysqsibdjhysvyqvsvybibspqhsqsibgrivsvrsjv.sVybcsejobe
dj bsdrieh;svybcstjddbesvybjisfbddjbhsdj bsJoejqoshyjghsqddseqcsdrqejom
pjvyshgjabh.sHnaysgrivbovrnhsqggbvjvbhsyqesLnbblnbmsqoesVqhyvbmr,svyqv
vrstjddsrnvsvybszqaqoajbhsuqebsfcsvybsgibzjrnhsibgqhv,srtvbosvybsgqdb
Ernmy-Frcspqhstqjosvrsfijomsrosqsmibqvsfqirosrtshqdv-kno ,shbbujomdc
lnqiijbesrnvsrtsvybshrdjesrx.sQoesjtsybspbibsorvsdjzbdcsqfrnvsjv,sjtsyb
ejesorvsmrspjvysqsojufdbsyrg-h jg-qoe-knug,svybosVqhyvbmrsyqesqo
nombovdbuqodcspqcsrtsqaabdbiqvjomsyjusfcseqivjomsqstri sqvsyjhsfqa ,
yqigrro-pjhb.sQoesroabsEqmmrr,shbjwbespjvysqshneebosynuri,sqhhjhvbe
Ernmy-Frc’hsuburicsfcshoqvayjomsyjusngsfrejdc,sqoesvyinhvjomsyjhsybqe
jovrsqsmibqvsbugvcsprrebosviboaybi,spyjdbsVqhyvbmr,s ojtbsjosyqoe,
fbmqosdqcjomsrnvsvybsajiadbsgibdjujoqicsvrshaqdgjomsyju.sYbspqh
oqvniqddcsqszbicsobizrnh,shyneebijomshrivsrtsdjvvdbstbddrp,svyjh
fibqe-tqabeshvbpqie;svybsgirmbocsrtsqsfqo ingvsfq bisqoesqsyrhgjvqd
onihb.sQoespyqvspjvysvybshvqoejomshgbavqadbsrtsvybsfdqa svbiijtjasQyqf,
qoesvybsgbijrejaqdsvnundvnrnhszjhjvqvjrohsrtsvybhbsvyibbshqzqmbh,
Ernmy-Frc’hspyrdbsdjtbspqhsrobsarovjonqdsdjg-lnjzbi.sAruurodc,sqtvbi
hbbjomsvybsyqigrrobbihstniojhybespjvysqddsvyjomhsvybcsebuqoebe,syb
prndesbhaqgbstirusvybjisadnvaybhsjovrsyjhsdjvvdbsgqovicsqekrjojom,sqoe
tbqitnddcsgbbgsrnvsqvsvybusvyirnmysvybsfdjoehsrtsjvhserri,svjddsqddspqh
rzbi.

JvspqhsqshjmyvsvrshbbsLnbblnbmshbqvbesrzbisqmqjohvsVqhyvbmr,srggrhjom
yjhstjdbesvbbvysvrsvybsJoejqo’h:sairhhpjhbsvrsvybu,sEqmmrrshbqvbesro
vybstdrri,strisqsfboaysprndesyqzbsfirnmyvsyjhsybqihb-gdnubesybqesvrsvyb
drpsaqidjobh;sqvsbzbicsurvjrosrtsyjhsardrhhqdsdjufh,suq jomsvybsdrp
aqfjostiqubpri svrshyq b,sqhspybosqosQtijaqosbdbgyqovsmrbhsgqhhbombisjo
qshyjg.sFnvstrisqddsvyjh,svybsmibqvsobmirspqhsproebitnddcsqfhvbujrnh,
orvsvrshqcseqjovc.sJvshbbubesyqiedcsgrhhjfdbsvyqvsfcshnaysarugqiqvjzbdc
huqddsurnvytndhsybsarndes bbgsngsvybszjvqdjvcsejttnhbesvyirnmyshr
firqe,sfqirojqd,sqoeshngbifsqsgbihro.sFnv,sernfvdbhh,svyjhsorfdbshqzqmb
tbeshviromsqoeseiqo sebbgsrtsvybsqfrnoejomsbdbubovsrtsqji;sqoesvyirnmy
yjhsejdqvbesorhvijdhshonttbesjosvybshnfdjubsdjtbsrtsvybsprideh.sOrvsfc
fbbtsrisfcsfibqe,sqibsmjqovhsuqebsrisornijhybe.sFnvsLnbblnbm,sybsyqesq
urivqd,sfqifqijashuqa srtsvybsdjgsjosbqvjom—qosnmdcshrnoesbornmy—hr
unayshr,svyqvsvybsvibufdjomsErnmy-Frcsqdurhvsdrr besvrshbbspybvybisqoc
uqi hsrtsvbbvysdni besjosyjhsrposdbqosqiuh.sQoespybosybsprndesybqi
Vqhyvbmrshjomjomsrnvstrisyjusvrsgirenabsyjuhbdt,svyqvsyjhsfrobhsujmyv
fbsgja be,svybshjugdb-pjvvbeshvbpqiesqddsfnvshyqvvbibesvybsaira bic
yqomjomsirnoesyjusjosvybsgqovic,sfcsyjhshneebostjvhsrtsvybsgqdhc.sOri
ejesvybspybvhvrobspyjaysvybsyqigrrobbihsaqiijbesjosvybjisgra bvh,stri
vybjisdqoabhsqoesrvybispbqgroh;sqoespjvyspyjayspybvhvrobh,sqvsejoobi,
vybcsprndesrhvbovqvjrnhdcshyqigbosvybjis ojzbh;svyqvsmiqvjomshrnoeseje
orvsqvsqddsvboesvrsviqolnjddjwbsgrrisErnmy-Frc.sYrpsarndesybstrimbv
vyqvsjosyjhsJhdqoeseqch,sLnbblnbm,strisrob,sunhvsabivqjodcsyqzbsfbbo
mnjdvcsrtshrubsuniebirnh,sarozjzjqdsjoejhaibvjroh.sQdqh!sErnmy-Frc!
yqiestqibhsvybspyjvbspqjvbispyrspqjvhsngrosaqoojfqdh.sOrvsqsoqg jo
hyrndesybsaqiicsrosyjhsqiu,sfnvsqsfna dbi.sJosmrresvjub,svyrnmy,svrsyjh
mibqvsebdjmyv,svybsvyibbshqdv-hbqspqiijrihsprndesijhbsqoesebgqiv;svr
yjhsaibendrnh,stqfdb-urombijomsbqih,sqddsvybjisuqivjqdsfrobhskjomdjom
josvybusqvsbzbicshvbg,sdj bsUrrijhyshajubvqihsjoshaqffqieh.

Fnv,svyrnmysvybhbsfqifqijqohsejobesjosvybsaqfjo,sqoesorujoqddcsdjzbe
vybib;shvjdd,sfbjomsqocvyjomsfnvshbebovqicsjosvybjisyqfjvh,svybcspbib
haqiabdcsbzbisjosjvsbxabgvsqvsubqdvjubh,sqoesknhvsfbtribshdbbgjom-vjub,
pybosvybcsgqhhbesvyirnmysjvsvrsvybjisrposgbandjqislnqivbih.

Josvyjhsrobsuqvvbi,sQyqfshbbubesorsbxabgvjrosvrsurhvsQubijaqospyqdb
aqgvqjoh,spyr,sqhsqshbv,siqvybisjoadjobsvrsvybsrgjojrosvyqvsfcsijmyvh
vybshyjg’hsaqfjosfbdromhsvrsvybu;sqoesvyqvsjvsjhsfcsarnivbhcsqdrobsvyqv
qocfrecsbdhbsjh,sqvsqocsvjub,sgbiujvvbesvybib.sHrsvyqv,sjosibqdsvinvy,
vybsuqvbhsqoesyqigrrobbihsrtsvybsGblnresujmyvsuribsgirgbidcsfbshqjesvr
yqzbsdjzbesrnvsrtsvybsaqfjosvyqosjosjv.sTrispybosvybcsejesbovbisjv,sjv
pqhshrubvyjomsqhsqshvibbv-errisbovbihsqsyrnhb;svniojomsjopqiehstrisq
urubov,srodcsvrsfbsvniobesrnvsvybsobxv;sqoe,sqhsqsgbiuqobovsvyjom,
ibhjejomsjosvybsrgbosqji.sOrisejesvybcsdrhbsunaysybibfc;sjosvybsaqfjo
pqhsorsarugqojrohyjg;shrajqddc,sQyqfspqhsjoqaabhhjfdb.sVyrnmysorujoqddc
joadnebesjosvybsabohnhsrtsAyijhvboeru,sybspqhshvjddsqosqdjbosvrsjv.sYb
djzbesjosvybspride,sqhsvybsdqhvsrtsvybsMijhdcsFbqihsdjzbesjoshbvvdbe
Ujhhrnij.sQoesqhspybosHgijomsqoesHnuubisyqesebgqivbe,svyqvspjdesDrmqo
rtsvybsprreh,sfnicjomsyjuhbdtsjosvybsyrddrpsrtsqsvibb,sdjzbesrnvsvyb
pjovbisvybib,shna jomsyjhsrposgqph;shr,sjosyjhsjoadbubov,syrpdjomsrde
qmb,sQyqf’hshrnd,shynvsngsjosvybsaqzbesvino srtsyjhsfrec,svybibstbe
ngrosvybshnddbosgqphsrtsjvhsmdrru!


AYQGVBIs35.sVybsUqhv-Ybqe.

Jvspqhsenijomsvybsuribsgdbqhqovspbqvybi,svyqvsjosenbsirvqvjrospjvysvyb
rvybishbqubosucstjihvsuqhv-ybqesaqubsirnoe.

JosurhvsQubijaqospyqdbubosvybsuqhv-ybqehsqibsuqoobesqdurhv
hjundvqobrnhdcspjvysvybszbhhbd’hsdbqzjomsybisgriv;sbzbosvyrnmyshybsuqc
yqzbstjtvbbosvyrnhqoesujdbh,sqoesurib,svrshqjdsbibsibqayjomsybisgirgbi
ainjhjomsmirnoe.sQoesjt,sqtvbisqsvyibb,strni,sristjzbscbqih’szrcqmbshyb
jhseiqpjomsojmysyrubspjvysqocvyjomsbugvcsjosybi—hqc,sqosbugvcszjqd
bzbo—vybo,sybisuqhv-ybqehsqibs bgvsuqoobesvrsvybsdqhv;sqoesorvsvjddsybi
h chqjd-grdbhshqjdsjosquromsvybshgjibhsrtsvybsgriv,serbhshybsqdvrmbvybi
ibdjolnjhysvybsyrgbsrtsaqgvnijomsrobspyqdbsurib.

Orp,sqhsvybsfnhjobhhsrtshvqoejomsuqhv-ybqeh,sqhyribsrisqtdrqv,sjhsq
zbicsqoajbovsqoesjovbibhvjomsrob,sdbvsnhsjoshrubsubqhnibsbxgqvjqvb
ybib.sJsvq bsjv,svyqvsvybsbqidjbhvshvqoebihsrtsuqhv-ybqehspbibsvybsrde
Bmcgvjqoh;sfbaqnhb,sjosqddsucsibhbqiaybh,sJstjoesorobsgijrisvrsvybu.
Trisvyrnmysvybjisgirmbojvrih,svybsfnjdebihsrtsFqfbd,sunhvsernfvdbhh,sfc
vybjisvrpbi,syqzbsjovboebesvrsibqisvybsdrtvjbhvsuqhv-ybqesjosqddsQhjq,
risQtijaqsbjvybi;scbvs(bibsvybstjoqdsvina spqhsgnvsvrsjv)sqhsvyqvsmibqv
hvrobsuqhvsrtsvybjihsuqcsfbshqjesvrsyqzbsmrobsfcsvybsfrqie,sjosvyb
eibqesmqdbsrtsMre’hspiqvy;svybibtrib,spbsaqoorvsmjzbsvybhbsFqfbd
fnjdebihsgijrijvcsrzbisvybsBmcgvjqoh.sQoesvyqvsvybsBmcgvjqohspbibsq
oqvjrosrtsuqhv-ybqeshvqoebih,sjhsqosqhhbivjrosfqhbesngrosvybsmbobiqd
fbdjbtsquromsqiayærdrmjhvh,svyqvsvybstjihvsgciqujehspbibstrnoebestri
qhvirorujaqdsgnigrhbh:sqsvybricshjomndqidcshnggrivbesfcsvybsgbandjqi
hvqji-dj bstriuqvjrosrtsqddstrnishjebhsrtsvyrhbsbejtjabh;spybibfc,spjvy
girejmjrnhsdromsngdjtvjomhsrtsvybjisdbmh,svyrhbsrdesqhvirorubihspbib
provsvrsurnovsvrsvybsqgbx,sqoeshjomsrnvstrisobpshvqih;sbzbosqhsvyb
drr -rnvhsrtsqsurebioshyjgshjomsrnvstrisqshqjd,srisqspyqdbsknhvsfbqijom
joshjmyv.sJosHqjovsHvcdjvbh,svybstqurnhsAyijhvjqosybiujvsrtsrdesvjubh,
pyrsfnjdvsyjusqsdrtvcshvrobsgjddqisjosvybsebhbivsqoeshgbovsvybspyrdb
dqvvbisgrivjrosrtsyjhsdjtbsrosjvhshnuujv,syrjhvjomsyjhstrrestirusvyb
mirnoespjvysqsvqa db;sjosyjuspbsyqzbsqsibuqi qfdbsjohvqoabsrtsq
eqnovdbhhshvqoebi-rt-uqhv-ybqeh;spyrspqhsorvsvrsfbseijzbostirusyjh
gdqabsfcstrmhsristirhvh,siqjo,syqjd,srishdbbv;sfnvszqdjqovdcstqajom
bzbicvyjomsrnvsvrsvybsdqhv,sdjvbiqddcsejbesqvsyjhsgrhv.sRtsurebio
hvqoebih-rt-uqhv-ybqehspbsyqzbsfnvsqsdjtbdbhhshbv;subibshvrob,sjiro,
qoesfirowbsubo;spyr,svyrnmyspbddsaqgqfdbsrtstqajomsrnvsqshvjttsmqdb,
qibshvjddsbovjibdcsjoarugbvbovsvrsvybsfnhjobhhsrtshjomjomsrnvsngro
ejharzbijomsqocshviqombshjmyv.sVybibsjhsOqgrdbro;spyr,sngrosvybsvrgsrt
vybsardnuosrtsZboerub,shvqoehspjvysqiuhstrdebe,shrubsrobsynoeibesqoe
tjtvcstbbvsjosvybsqji;saqibdbhh,sorp,spyrsindbhsvybseba hsfbdrp;
pybvybisDrnjhsGyjdjggb,sDrnjhsFdqoa,srisDrnjhsvybsEbzjd.sMibqv
Pqhyjomvro,svrr,shvqoehsyjmysqdrtvsrosyjhsvrpbijomsuqjo-uqhvsjo
Fqdvjurib,sqoesdj bsrobsrtsYbiandbh’sgjddqih,syjhsardnuosuqi hsvyqv
grjovsrtsynuqosmiqoebnisfbcroespyjaystbpsurivqdhspjddsmr.sQeujiqd
Obdhro,sqdhr,srosqsaqghvqosrtsmno-ubvqd,shvqoehsyjhsuqhv-ybqesjo
ViqtqdmqisHlnqib;sqoesbzbispybosurhvsrfhanibesfcsvyqvsDroeroshur b,
vr bosjhscbvsmjzbosvyqvsqsyjeebosybirsjhsvybib;strispybibsvybibsjh
hur b,sunhvsfbstjib.sFnvsobjvybismibqvsPqhyjomvro,sorisOqgrdbro,sori
Obdhro,spjddsqohpbisqshjomdbsyqjdstirusfbdrp,syrpbzbisuqedcsjozr besvr
fbtijboesfcsvybjisarnohbdhsvybsejhviqavbeseba hsngrospyjaysvybcsmqwb;
yrpbzbisjvsuqcsfbshniujhbe,svyqvsvybjishgjijvhsgbobviqvbsvyirnmysvyb
vyja syqwbsrtsvybstnvnib,sqoesebhaicspyqvshyrqdhsqoespyqvsira hsunhvsfb
hynoobe.

Jvsuqcshbbusnopqiiqovqfdbsvrsarngdbsjosqocsibhgbavsvybsuqhv-ybqe
hvqoebihsrtsvybsdqoespjvysvyrhbsrtsvybshbq;sfnvsvyqvsjosvinvysjvsjhsorv
hr,sjhsgdqjodcsbzjoabesfcsqosjvbustrispyjaysRfbesUqac,svybshrdb
yjhvrijqosrtsOqovna bv,shvqoehsqaarnovqfdb.sVybsprivycsRfbesvbddhsnh,
vyqvsjosvybsbqidcsvjubhsrtsvybspyqdbstjhybic,sbibshyjghspbibsibmndqidc
dqnoaybesjosgnihnjvsrtsvybsmqub,svybsgbrgdbsrtsvyqvsjhdqoesbibavbe
drtvcshgqihsqdromsvybshbq-arqhv,svrspyjaysvybsdrr -rnvhsqhaboebesfc
ubqohsrtsoqjdbesadbqvh,shrubvyjomsqhstrpdhsmrsnghvqjihsjosqsybo-yrnhb.
QstbpscbqihsqmrsvyjhshqubsgdqospqhsqergvbesfcsvybsFqcspyqdbubosrtsObp
Wbqdqoe,spyr,sngrosebhaicjomsvybsmqub,smqzbsorvjabsvrsvybsibqec-uqoobe
frqvhsojmysvybsfbqay.sFnvsvyjhsanhvrusyqhsorpsfbarubsrfhrdbvb;svniospb
vybosvrsvybsrobsgirgbisuqhv-ybqe,svyqvsrtsqspyqdb-hyjgsqvshbq.sVyb
vyibbsuqhv-ybqehsqibs bgvsuqoobestirushno-ijhbsvrshno-hbv;svybshbqubo
vq jomsvybjisibmndqisvniohs(qhsqvsvybsybdu),sqoesibdjbzjomsbqaysrvybi
bzbicsvprsyrnih.sJosvybshbibobspbqvybisrtsvybsvirgjahsjvsjhsbxabbejomdc
gdbqhqovsvybsuqhv-ybqe;soqc,svrsqseibqucsubejvqvjzbsuqosjvsjh
ebdjmyvtnd.sVybibscrnshvqoe,sqsynoeibestbbvsqfrzbsvybshjdbovseba h,
hvijejomsqdromsvybsebbg,sqhsjtsvybsuqhvhspbibsmjmqovjashvjdvh,spyjdb
fbobqvyscrnsqoesfbvpbboscrnisdbmh,sqhsjvspbib,shpjusvybsynmbhvsurohvbih
rtsvybshbq,sbzbosqhshyjghsroabshqjdbesfbvpbbosvybsfrrvhsrtsvybstqurnh
ArdrhhnhsqvsrdesIyrebh.sVybibscrnshvqoe,sdrhvsjosvybsjotjojvbshbijbhsrt
vybshbq,spjvysorvyjomsinttdbesfnvsvybspqzbh.sVybsviqoabeshyjg
joerdbovdcsirddh;svybseirphcsviqebspjoehsfdrp;sbzbicvyjomsibhrdzbhscrn
jovrsdqomnri.sTrisvybsurhvsgqiv,sjosvyjhsvirgjaspyqdjomsdjtb,sqshnfdjub
nobzbovtndobhhsjozbhvhscrn;scrnsybqisorsobph;sibqesorsmqwbvvbh;sbxviqh
pjvyshvqivdjomsqaarnovhsrtsaruurogdqabhsobzbisebdnebscrnsjovr
noobabhhqicsbxajvbubovh;scrnsybqisrtsorserubhvjasqttdjavjroh;sfqo ingv
hbanijvjbh;stqddsrtshvra h;sqibsobzbisvirnfdbespjvysvybsvyrnmyvsrtspyqv
crnshyqddsyqzbstrisejoobi—trisqddscrnisubqdhstrisvyibbscbqihsqoesurib
qibshonmdcshvrpbesjosaqh h,sqoescrnisfjddsrtstqibsjhsjuunvqfdb.

Josrobsrtsvyrhbshrnvybiospyqdbhubo,srosqsdromsvyibbsristrniscbqih’
zrcqmb,sqhsrtvbosyqggboh,svybshnusrtsvybszqijrnhsyrnihscrnshgboesqvsvyb
uqhv-ybqesprndesqurnovsvrshbzbiqdsbovjibsurovyh.sQoesjvsjhsunaysvrsfb
ebgdribesvyqvsvybsgdqabsvrspyjayscrnsebzrvbshrsarohjebiqfdbsqsgrivjro
rtsvybspyrdbsvbiusrtscrnisoqvniqdsdjtb,shyrndesfbshrshqedcsebhvjvnvbsrt
qocvyjomsqggirqayjomsvrsqsarhcsjoyqfjvjzbobhh,srisqeqgvbesvrsfibbesq
arutrivqfdbsdraqdobhhsrtstbbdjom,shnaysqhsgbivqjohsvrsqsfbe,sqsyquura ,
qsybqihb,sqshbovicsfrx,sqsgndgjv,sqsarqay,srisqocsrvybisrtsvyrhbshuqdd
qoeshonmsarovijzqoabhsjospyjaysubosvbugriqijdcsjhrdqvbsvybuhbdzbh.sCrni
urhvsnhnqdsgrjovsrtsgbiaysjhsvybsybqesrtsvybsv’smqddqov-uqhv,spybibscrn
hvqoesngrosvprsvyjosgqiqddbdshvja hs(qdurhvsgbandjqisvrspyqdbubo)
aqddbesvybsv’smqddqovsairhh-vibbh.sYbib,svrhhbesqfrnvsfcsvybshbq,svyb
fbmjoobistbbdhsqfrnvsqhsarhcsqhsybsprndeshvqoejomsrosqsfndd’hsyrioh.sVr
fbshnib,sjosardespbqvybiscrnsuqcsaqiicscrnisyrnhbsqdrtvspjvyscrn,sjo
vybshyqgbsrtsqspqvay-arqv;sfnvsgirgbidcshgbq jomsvybsvyja bhv
pqvay-arqvsjhsorsuribsrtsqsyrnhbsvyqosvybsnoadqesfrec;strisqhsvybshrnd
jhsmdnbesjohjebsrtsjvhstdbhycsvqfbioqadb,sqoesaqoorvstibbdcsurzbsqfrnv
josjv,sorisbzbosurzbsrnvsrtsjv,spjvyrnvsinoojomsmibqvsijh srtsgbijhyjom
(dj bsqosjmoriqovsgjdmijusairhhjomsvybshorpcsQdghsjospjovbi);shrsq
pqvay-arqvsjhsorvshrsunaysrtsqsyrnhbsqhsjvsjhsqsubibsbozbdrgb,sri
qeejvjroqdsh josboaqhjomscrn.sCrnsaqoorvsgnvsqshybdtsrisaybhvsrt
eiqpbihsjoscrnisfrec,sqoesorsuribsaqoscrnsuq bsqsarozbojbovsadrhbvsrt
crnispqvay-arqv.

Aroabiojomsqddsvyjh,sjvsjhsunaysvrsfbsebgdribesvyqvsvybsuqhv-ybqehsrtsq
hrnvybiospyqdbshyjgsqibsnogirzjebespjvysvyrhbsbozjqfdbsdjvvdbsvbovhsri
gndgjvh,saqddbes_airp’h-obhvh_,sjospyjaysvybsdrr -rnvhsrtsqsMibbodqoe
pyqdbisqibsgirvbavbestirusvybsjoadbubovspbqvybisrtsvybstirwboshbqh.sJo
vybstjibhjebsoqiiqvjzbsrtsAqgvqjosHdbbv,sbovjvdbes“QsZrcqmbsquromsvyb
Jabfbimh,sjoslnbhvsrtsvybsMibbodqoesPyqdb,sqoesjoajebovqddcstrisvyb
ib-ejharzbicsrtsvybsDrhvsJabdqoejasArdrojbhsrtsRdesMibbodqoe;”sjosvyjh
qeujiqfdbszrdnub,sqddshvqoebihsrtsuqhv-ybqehsqibstniojhybespjvysq
ayqiujomdcsajianuhvqovjqdsqaarnovsrtsvybsvybosibabovdcsjozbovbe
_airp’h-obhv_srtsvybsMdqajbi,spyjayspqhsvybsoqubsrtsAqgvqjosHdbbv’h
mrresaiqtv.sYbsaqddbesjvsvybs_Hdbbv’hsairp’h-obhv_,sjosyrorisrt
yjuhbdt;sybsfbjomsvybsrijmjoqdsjozbovrisqoesgqvbovbb,sqoestibbstirusqdd
ijejandrnhstqdhbsebdjaqac,sqoesyrdejomsvyqvsjtspbsaqddsrnisrposayjdeibo
qtvbisrnisrposoqubhs(pbstqvybihsfbjomsvybsrijmjoqdsjozbovrihsqoe
gqvbovbbh),shrsdj bpjhbshyrndespbseborujoqvbsqtvbisrnihbdzbhsqocsrvybi
qggqiqvnhspbsuqcsfbmbv.sJoshyqgb,svybsHdbbv’hsairp’h-obhvsjhshrubvyjom
dj bsqsdqimbsvjbiabsrisgjgb;sjvsjhsrgbosqfrzb,syrpbzbi,spybibsjvsjh
tniojhybespjvysqsurzqfdbshjeb-haibbosvrs bbgsvrspjoepqiesrtscrnisybqe
josqsyqiesmqdb.sFbjomstjxbesrosvybshnuujvsrtsvybsuqhv,scrnsqhaboesjovr
jvsvyirnmysqsdjvvdbsviqg-yqvaysjosvybsfrvvru.sRosvybsqtvbishjeb,sri
hjebsobxvsvybshvbiosrtsvybshyjg,sjhsqsarutrivqfdbshbqv,spjvysqsdra bi
noebiobqvystrisnufibddqh,sarutrivbih,sqoesarqvh.sJostirovsjhsqsdbqvybi
iqa ,sjospyjaysvrs bbgscrnishgbq jomsvinugbv,sgjgb,svbdbhargb,sqoe
rvybisoqnvjaqdsarozbojboabh.sPybosAqgvqjosHdbbvsjosgbihroshvrresyjh
uqhv-ybqesjosvyjhsairp’h-obhvsrtsyjh,sybsvbddhsnhsvyqvsybsqdpqchsyqesq
ijtdbspjvysyjus(qdhrstjxbesjosvybsiqa ),svrmbvybispjvysqsgrpebistdqh 
qoeshyrv,strisvybsgnigrhbsrtsgrggjomsrttsvybshviqcsoqipyqdbh,sri
zqmiqovshbqsnojariohsjotbhvjomsvyrhbspqvbih;striscrnsaqoorv
hnaabhhtnddcshyrrvsqvsvybustirusvybseba srpjomsvrsvybsibhjhvqoabsrtsvyb
pqvbi,sfnvsvrshyrrvserposngrosvybusjhsqszbicsejttbibovsvyjom.sOrp,sjv
pqhsgdqjodcsqsdqfrisrtsdrzbstrisAqgvqjosHdbbvsvrsebhaijfb,sqhsybserbh,
qddsvybsdjvvdbsebvqjdbesarozbojboabhsrtsyjhsairp’h-obhv;sfnvsvyrnmysyb
hrsbodqimbhsngrosuqocsrtsvybhb,sqoesvyrnmysybsvibqvhsnhsvrsqszbic
hajbovjtjasqaarnovsrtsyjhsbxgbijubovhsjosvyjhsairp’h-obhv,spjvysqshuqdd
arugqhhsybs bgvsvybibstrisvybsgnigrhbsrtsarnovbiqavjomsvybsbiirih
ibhndvjomstiruspyqvsjhsaqddbesvybs“draqdsqvviqavjro”srtsqddsfjooqadb
uqmobvh;sqosbiirisqhaijfqfdbsvrsvybsyrijwrovqdszjajojvcsrtsvybsjirosjo
vybshyjg’hsgdqo h,sqoesjosvybsMdqajbi’hsaqhb,sgbiyqgh,svrsvybibsyqzjom
fbboshrsuqocsfir bo-erposfdqa hujvyhsquromsybisaibp;sJshqc,svyqvsvyrnmy
vybsAqgvqjosjhszbicsejhaibbvsqoeshajbovjtjasybib,scbv,strisqddsyjh
dbqiobes“fjooqadbsebzjqvjroh,”s“qwjunvysarugqhhsrfhbizqvjroh,”sqoe
“qggirxjuqvbsbiirih,”sybs orphszbicspbdd,sAqgvqjosHdbbv,svyqvsybspqh
orvshrsunaysjuubihbesjosvyrhbsgirtrnoesuqmobvjasubejvqvjroh,sqhsvrstqjd
fbjomsqvviqavbesraaqhjroqddcsvrpqiehsvyqvspbddsibgdbojhybesdjvvdb
aqhb-frvvdb,shrsojabdcsvna besjosrosrobshjebsrtsyjhsairp’hsobhv,spjvyjo
bqhcsibqaysrtsyjhsyqoe.sVyrnmy,sngrosvybspyrdb,sJsmibqvdcsqeujibsqoe
bzbosdrzbsvybsfiqzb,svybsyrobhv,sqoesdbqiobesAqgvqjo;scbvsJsvq bsjv
zbicsjddsrtsyjusvyqvsybshyrndeshrsnvvbidcsjmoribsvyqvsaqhb-frvvdb,
hbbjomspyqvsqstqjvytndstijboesqoesarutrivbisjvsunhvsyqzbsfbbo,spyjdb
pjvysujvvbobestjombihsqoesyrrebesybqesybspqhshvnecjomsvybsuqvybuqvjah
qdrtvsvybibsjosvyqvsfjie’hsobhvspjvyjosvyibbsristrnisgbiaybhsrtsvyb
grdb.

FnvsjtspbsHrnvybiospyqdb-tjhybihsqibsorvshrshonmdcsyrnhbesqdrtvsqh
AqgvqjosHdbbvsqoesyjhsMibbodqoeubospbib;scbvsvyqvsejhqezqovqmbsjh
mibqvdcsarnovbi-fqdqoabesfcsvybspjebdcsaroviqhvjomshbibojvcsrtsvyrhb
hbenavjzbshbqhsjospyjayspbsHrnvystjhybihsurhvdcstdrqv.sTrisrob,sJsnhbe
vrsdrnombsngsvybsijmmjomszbicsdbjhnibdc,sibhvjomsjosvybsvrgsvrsyqzbsq
ayqvspjvysLnbblnbm,srisqocsrobsbdhbsrttsenvcspyrusJsujmyvstjoesvybib;
vybosqhaboejomsqsdjvvdbspqcstnivybi,sqoesvyirpjomsqsdqwcsdbmsrzbisvyb
vrg-hqjdscqie,svq bsqsgibdjujoqicszjbpsrtsvybspqvbicsgqhvnibh,sqoeshr
qvsdqhvsurnovsvrsucsndvjuqvbsebhvjoqvjro.

Dbvsubsuq bsqsadbqosfibqhvsrtsjvsybib,sqoestiqo dcsqeujvsvyqvsJs bgv
fnvshriicsmnqie.sPjvysvybsgirfdbusrtsvybsnojzbihbsibzrdzjomsjosub,syrp
arndesJ—fbjomsdbtvsarugdbvbdcsvrsuchbdtsqvshnaysqsvyrnmyv-bomboebijom
qdvjvneb—yrpsarndesJsfnvsdjmyvdcsyrdesucsrfdjmqvjrohsvrsrfhbizbsqdd
pyqdb-hyjgh’shvqoejomsriebih,s“ bbgscrnispbqvybisbcbsrgbo,sqoeshjomsrnv
bzbicsvjub.”

Qoesdbvsubsjosvyjhsgdqabsurzjomdcsqeurojhyscrn,scbshyjg-rpobihsrt
Oqovna bv!sFbpqibsrtsbodjhvjomsjoscrniszjmjdqovstjhybijbhsqocsdqespjvy
dbqosfirpsqoesyrddrpsbcb;smjzbosvrsnohbqhroqfdbsubejvqvjzbobhh;sqoespyr
rttbihsvrshyjgspjvysvybsGyæerosjohvbqesrtsFrpejvaysjosyjhsybqe.sFbpqib
rtshnaysqosrob,sJshqc;scrnispyqdbhsunhvsfbshbbosfbtribsvybcsaqosfb
 jddbe;sqoesvyjhshno bo-bcbescrnomsGdqvrojhvspjddsvrpscrnsvbospq bh
irnoesvybspride,sqoesobzbisuq bscrnsrobsgjovsrtshgbiusvybsijaybi.sOri
qibsvybhbsurojvjrohsqvsqddsnoobbebe.sTrisorpqeqch,svybspyqdb-tjhybic
tniojhybhsqosqhcdnustrisuqocsiruqovja,subdqoayrdc,sqoesqfhbov-ujoebe
crnomsubo,sejhmnhvbespjvysvybsaqi jomsaqibhsrtsbqivy,sqoeshbb jom
hbovjubovsjosvqisqoesfdnffbi.sAyjdebsYqirdesorvsnotiblnbovdcsgbiaybh
yjuhbdtsngrosvybsuqhv-ybqesrtshrubsdna dbhhsejhqggrjovbespyqdb-hyjg,
qoesjosurrecsgyiqhbsbkqandqvbh:—


“Irddsro,svyrnsebbgsqoeseqi sfdnbsrabqo,sirdd!sVbosvyrnhqoe
fdnffbi-ynovbihshpbbgsrzbisvybbsjoszqjo.”



Zbicsrtvbosersvybsaqgvqjohsrtshnayshyjghsvq bsvyrhbsqfhbov-ujoebescrnom
gyjdrhrgybihsvrsvqh ,sngfiqjejomsvybuspjvysorvstbbdjomshnttjajbov
“jovbibhv”sjosvybszrcqmb;syqdt-yjovjomsvyqvsvybcsqibshrsyrgbdbhhdcsdrhv
vrsqddsyroriqfdbsqufjvjro,sqhsvyqvsjosvybjishbaibvshrndhsvybcsprnde
iqvybisorvshbbspyqdbhsvyqosrvybipjhb.sFnvsqddsjoszqjo;svyrhbscrnom
Gdqvrojhvhsyqzbsqsorvjrosvyqvsvybjiszjhjrosjhsjugbitbav;svybcsqib
hyriv-hjmyvbe;spyqvsnhb,svybo,svrshviqjosvybszjhnqdsobizb?sVybcsyqzb
dbtvsvybjisrgbiq-mdqhhbhsqvsyrub.

“Pyc,svyrnsuro bc,”shqjesqsyqigrrobbisvrsrobsrtsvybhbsdqeh,s“pb’zbsfbbo
ainjhjomsorpsyqiesngrosvyibbscbqih,sqoesvyrnsyqhvsorvsiqjhbesqspyqdb
cbv.sPyqdbhsqibshaqiabsqhsybo’hsvbbvyspybobzbisvyrnsqivsngsybib.”
Gbiyqghsvybcspbib;srisgbiyqghsvybibsujmyvsyqzbsfbboshyrqdhsrtsvybusjo
vybstqisyrijwro;sfnvsdnddbesjovrshnaysqosrgjnu-dj bsdjhvdbhhobhhsrt
zqaqov,snoarohajrnhsibzbijbsjhsvyjhsqfhbov-ujoebescrnvysfcsvybsfdboejom
aqeboabsrtspqzbhspjvysvyrnmyvh,svyqvsqvsdqhvsybsdrhbhsyjhsjebovjvc;
vq bhsvybsuchvjasrabqosqvsyjhstbbvstrisvybszjhjfdbsjuqmbsrtsvyqvsebbg,
fdnb,sfrvvrudbhhshrnd,sgbizqejomsuqo joesqoesoqvnib;sqoesbzbicshviqomb,
yqdt-hbbo,smdjejom,sfbqnvjtndsvyjomsvyqvsbdnebhsyju;sbzbic
ejudc-ejharzbibe,sngijhjomstjosrtshrubsnoejhabiojfdbstriu,shbbuhsvrsyju
vybsbufrejubovsrtsvyrhbsbdnhjzbsvyrnmyvhsvyqvsrodcsgbrgdbsvybshrndsfc
arovjonqddcstdjvvjomsvyirnmysjv.sJosvyjhsboayqovbesurre,svycshgjijv
bffhsqpqcsvrspyboabsjvsaqub;sfbarubhsejttnhbesvyirnmysvjubsqoeshgqab;
dj bsAiqoubi’hshgijo dbesGqovybjhvjasqhybh,striujomsqvsdqhvsqsgqivsrt
bzbicshyribsvybsirnoesmdrfbsrzbi.

Vybibsjhsorsdjtbsjosvybb,sorp,sbxabgvsvyqvsira jomsdjtbsjugqivbesfcsq
mbovdcsirddjomshyjg;sfcsybi,sfriirpbestirusvybshbq;sfcsvybshbq,stiru
vybsjohainvqfdbsvjebhsrtsMre.sFnvspyjdbsvyjhshdbbg,svyjhseibqusjhsro
cb,surzbscrnistrrvsrisyqoesqosjoay;shdjgscrnisyrdesqvsqdd;sqoescrni
jebovjvcsarubhsfqa sjosyriiri.sRzbisEbhaqivjqoszrivjabhscrnsyrzbi.sQoe
gbiyqgh,sqvsuje-eqc,sjosvybstqjibhvspbqvybi,spjvysrobsyqdt-vyirvvdbe
hyijb scrnseirgsvyirnmysvyqvsviqohgqibovsqjisjovrsvybshnuubishbq,sor
uribsvrsijhbstrisbzbi.sYbbesjvspbdd,scbsGqovybjhvh!


AYQGVBIs36.sVybsLnqivbi-Eba .

(_BovbisQyqf:sVybo,sqdd._)

Jvspqhsorvsqsmibqvspyjdbsqtvbisvybsqttqjisrtsvybsgjgb,svyqvsrobsuriojom
hyrivdcsqtvbisfibq tqhv,sQyqf,sqhspqhsyjhsprov,sqhaboebesvyb
aqfjo-mqompqcsvrsvybseba .sVybibsurhvshbq-aqgvqjohsnhnqddcspqd sqvsvyqv
yrni,sqhsarnovicsmbovdbubo,sqtvbisvybshqubsubqd,svq bsqstbpsvniohsjo
vybsmqiebo.

Hrrosyjhshvbqec,sjzricshvijebspqhsybqie,sqhsvrsqoestirsybsgqabesyjhsrde
irnoeh,sngrosgdqo hshrstqujdjqisvrsyjhsvibqe,svyqvsvybcspbibsqddsrzbi
ebovbe,sdj bsmbrdrmjaqdshvrobh,spjvysvybsgbandjqisuqi srtsyjhspqd .sEje
crnstjxbedcsmqwb,svrr,sngrosvyqvsijffbesqoesebovbesfirp;svybibsqdhr,
crnsprndeshbbshvjddshviqombistrrv-gijovh—vybstrrv-gijovhsrtsyjhsrob
nohdbbgjom,sbzbi-gqajomsvyrnmyv.

Fnvsrosvybsraaqhjrosjoslnbhvjro,svyrhbsebovhsdrr besebbgbi,sbzbosqhsyjh
obizrnhshvbgsvyqvsuriojomsdbtvsqsebbgbisuqi .sQoe,shrstnddsrtsyjh
vyrnmyvspqhsQyqf,svyqvsqvsbzbicsnojtriusvniosvyqvsybsuqeb,sorpsqvsvyb
uqjo-uqhvsqoesorpsqvsvybsfjooqadb,scrnsarndesqdurhvshbbsvyqvsvyrnmyv
vniosjosyjusqhsybsvniobe,sqoesgqabsjosyjusqhsybsgqabe;shrsarugdbvbdc
grhhbhhjomsyju,sjoebbe,svyqvsjvsqddsfnvshbbubesvybsjopqiesurndesrt
bzbicsrnvbisurzbubov.

“E’cbsuqi syju,sTdqh ?”spyjhgbibesHvnff;s“vybsayja svyqv’hsjosyjusgba h
vybshybdd.s’Vpjddshrrosfbsrnv.”

Vybsyrnihspribsro;—Qyqfsorpshynvsngspjvyjosyjhsaqfjo;sqoro,sgqajomsvyb
eba ,spjvysvybshqubsjovbohbsfjmrvicsrtsgnigrhbsjosyjhsqhgbav.

Jvseibpsobqisvybsadrhbsrtseqc.sHneebodcsybsaqubsvrsqsyqdvsfcsvyb
fndpqi h,sqoesjohbivjomsyjhsfrobsdbmsjovrsvybsqnmbi-yrdbsvybib,sqoe
pjvysrobsyqoesmiqhgjomsqshyirne,sybsriebibesHvqifna svrshboesbzbicfrec
qtv.

“Hji!”shqjesvybsuqvb,sqhvrojhybesqvsqosriebishbderusrisobzbismjzbosro
hyjg-frqiesbxabgvsjoshrubsbxviqriejoqicsaqhb.

“Hboesbzbicfrecsqtv,”sibgbqvbesQyqf.s“Uqhv-ybqeh,svybib!sarubserpo!”

Pybosvybsbovjibshyjg’hsarugqocspbibsqhhbufdbe,sqoespjvysanijrnhsqoesorv
pyrddcsnoqggibybohjzbstqabh,spbibsbcbjomsyju,strisybsdrr besorvsnodj b
vybspbqvybisyrijwrospybosqshvriusjhsarujomsng,sQyqf,sqtvbisiqgjedc
mdqoajomsrzbisvybsfndpqi h,sqoesvyboseqivjomsyjhsbcbhsquromsvybsaibp,
hvqivbestirusyjhshvqoegrjov;sqoesqhsvyrnmysorvsqshrndspbibsojmysyju
ibhnubesyjhsybqzcsvniohsngrosvybseba .sPjvysfbovsybqesqoesyqdt-hdrnaybe
yqvsybsarovjonbesvrsgqab,snoujoetndsrtsvybsproebijomspyjhgbijomsqurom
vybsubo;svjddsHvnffsaqnvjrnhdcspyjhgbibesvrsTdqh ,svyqvsQyqfsunhvsyqzb
hnuurobesvybusvybibstrisvybsgnigrhbsrtspjvobhhjomsqsgbebhvijqostbqv.
Fnvsvyjhsejesorvsdqhvsdrom.sZbybubovdcsgqnhjom,sybsaijbe:—

“Pyqvserscbserspyboscbshbbsqspyqdb,subo?”

“Hjomsrnvstrisyju!”spqhsvybsjugndhjzbsibkrjoebistirusqsharibsrtsadnffbe
zrjabh.

“Mrre!”saijbesQyqf,spjvysqspjdesqggirzqdsjosyjhsvrobh;srfhbizjomsvyb
ybqivcsqojuqvjrosjovrspyjaysyjhsnobxgbavbeslnbhvjrosyqeshrsuqmobvjaqddc
vyirposvybu.

“Qoespyqvserscbsobxv,subo?”

“Drpbisqpqc,sqoesqtvbisyju!”

“Qoespyqvsvnobsjhsjvscbsgnddsvr,subo?”

“Qsebqespyqdbsrisqshvrzbsfrqv!”

Uribsqoesuribshviqombdcsqoestjbiabdcsmdqesqoesqggirzjom,smibpsvyb
arnovboqoabsrtsvybsrdesuqosqvsbzbicshyrnv;spyjdbsvybsuqijobihsfbmqosvr
mqwbsanijrnhdcsqvsbqaysrvybi,sqhsjtsuqizbddjomsyrpsjvspqhsvyqvsvybc
vybuhbdzbhsfbaqubshrsbxajvbesqvshnayshbbujomdcsgnigrhbdbhhslnbhvjroh.

Fnv,svybcspbibsqddsbqmbiobhhsqmqjo,sqhsQyqf,sorpsyqdt-ibzrdzjomsjosyjh
gjzrv-yrdb,spjvysrobsyqoesibqayjomsyjmysngsqshyirne,sqoesvjmyvdc,
qdurhvsarozndhjzbdcsmiqhgjomsjv,sqeeibhhbesvybusvynh:—

“Qddscbsuqhv-ybqebihsyqzbsfbtribsorpsybqiesubsmjzbsriebihsqfrnvsqspyjvb
pyqdb.sDrr scb!se’cbshbbsvyjhsHgqojhysrnoabsrtsmrde?”—yrdejomsngsq
firqesfijmyvsarjosvrsvybshno—“jvsjhsqshjxvbboserddqisgjbab,subo.sE’cb
hbbsjv?sUi.sHvqifna ,syqoesubscrosvrg-uqnd.”

Pyjdbsvybsuqvbspqhsmbvvjomsvybsyquubi,sQyqf,spjvyrnvshgbq jom,spqh
hdrpdcsinffjomsvybsmrdesgjbabsqmqjohvsvybsh jivhsrtsyjhskqa bv,sqhsjt
vrsybjmyvbosjvhsdnhvib,sqoespjvyrnvsnhjomsqocspriehspqhsubqopyjdbsdrpdc
ynuujomsvrsyjuhbdt,sgirenajomsqshrnoeshrshviqombdcsunttdbesqoe
joqivjandqvbsvyqvsjvshbbubesvybsubayqojaqdsynuujomsrtsvybspybbdhsrtsyjh
zjvqdjvcsjosyju.

Ibabjzjomsvybsvrg-uqndstirusHvqifna ,sybsqezqoabesvrpqiehsvybsuqjo-uqhv
pjvysvybsyquubisngdjtvbesjosrobsyqoe,sbxyjfjvjomsvybsmrdespjvysvyb
rvybi,sqoespjvysqsyjmysiqjhbeszrjabsbxadqjujom:s“Pyrhrbzbisrtscbsiqjhbh
ubsqspyjvb-ybqebespyqdbspjvysqspijo dbesfirpsqoesqsairr beskqp;
pyrhrbzbisrtscbsiqjhbhsubsvyqvspyjvb-ybqebespyqdb,spjvysvyibbsyrdbh
gnoavnibesjosyjhshvqifrqiestdn b—drr scb,spyrhrbzbisrtscbsiqjhbhsub
vyqvshqubspyjvbspyqdb,sybshyqddsyqzbsvyjhsmrdesrnoab,sucsfrch!”

“Ynwwq!synwwq!”saijbesvybshbqubo,sqhspjvyshpjomjomsvqigqndjohsvybc
yqjdbesvybsqavsrtsoqjdjomsvybsmrdesvrsvybsuqhv.

“Jv’hsqspyjvbspyqdb,sJshqc,”sibhnubesQyqf,sqhsybsvyibpserposvyb
vrguqnd:s“qspyjvbspyqdb.sH joscrnisbcbhstrisyju,subo;sdrr shyqigstri
pyjvbspqvbi;sjtscbshbbsfnvsqsfnffdb,shjomsrnv.”

QddsvyjhspyjdbsVqhyvbmr,sEqmmrr,sqoesLnbblnbmsyqesdrr besrospjvysbzbo
uribsjovbohbsjovbibhvsqoeshnigijhbsvyqosvybsibhv,sqoesqvsvybsubovjrosrt
vybspijo dbesfirpsqoesairr beskqpsvybcsyqeshvqivbesqhsjtsbqayspqh
hbgqiqvbdcsvrnaybesfcshrubshgbajtjasibarddbavjro.

“AqgvqjosQyqf,”shqjesVqhyvbmr,s“vyqvspyjvbspyqdbsunhvsfbsvybshqubsvyqv
hrubsaqddsUrfcsEja .”

“UrfcsEja ?”shyrnvbesQyqf.s“Erscbs orpsvybspyjvbspyqdbsvybo,sVqhy?”

“Erbhsybstqo-vqjdsqsdjvvdbsanijrnh,shji,sfbtribsybsmrbhserpo?”shqjesvyb
Mqc-Ybqebisebdjfbiqvbdc.

“Qoesyqhsybsqsanijrnhshgrnv,svrr,”shqjesEqmmrr,s“zbicsfnhyc,sbzbostrisq
gqiuqabvvc,sqoesujmyvcslnja ,sAqgvqjosQyqf?”

“Qoesybsyqzbsrob,svpr,svyibb—ry!smrresuqocsjirosjosyjusyjeb,svrr,
Aqgvqjo,”saijbesLnbblnbmsejhkrjovbedc,s“qddsvpjh b-vbbsfb-vpjh ,sdj b
yju—yju—”stqdvbijomsyqiestrisqsprie,sqoeshaibpjomsyjhsyqoesirnoesqoe
irnoesqhsvyrnmysnoari jomsqsfrvvdb—“dj bsyju—yju—”

“Ari haibp!”saijbesQyqf,s“qcb,sLnbblnbm,svybsyqigrrohsdjbsqddsvpjhvbe
qoespiboaybesjosyju;sqcb,sEqmmrr,syjhshgrnvsjhsqsfjmsrob,sdj bsqspyrdb
hyra srtspybqv,sqoespyjvbsqhsqsgjdbsrtsrnisOqovna bvsprrdsqtvbisvyb
mibqvsqoonqdshybbg-hybqijom;sqcb,sVqhyvbmr,sqoesybstqo-vqjdhsdj bsq
hgdjvskjfsjosqshlnqdd.sEbqvysqoesebzjdh!subo,sjvsjhsUrfcsEja scbsyqzb
hbbo—UrfcsEja —UrfcsEja !”

“AqgvqjosQyqf,”shqjesHvqifna ,spyr,spjvysHvnffsqoesTdqh ,syqesvynhstqi
fbbosbcbjomsyjhshngbijrispjvysjoaibqhjomshnigijhb,sfnvsqvsdqhvshbbube
hvina spjvysqsvyrnmyvspyjayshrubpyqvsbxgdqjobesqddsvybsproebi.s“Aqgvqjo
Qyqf,sJsyqzbsybqiesrtsUrfcsEja —fnvsjvspqhsorvsUrfcsEja svyqvsvrr srtt
vycsdbm?”

“Pyrsvrdesvybbsvyqv?”saijbesQyqf;svybosgqnhjom,s“Qcb,sHvqifna ;sqcb,suc
ybqivjbhsqddsirnoe;sjvspqhsUrfcsEja svyqvsejhuqhvbesub;sUrfcsEja svyqv
firnmyvsubsvrsvyjhsebqeshvnugsJshvqoesrosorp.sQcb,sqcb,”sybshyrnvbe
pjvysqsvbiijtja,sdrne,sqojuqdshrf,sdj bsvyqvsrtsqsybqiv-hvija bosurrhb;
“Qcb,sqcb!sjvspqhsvyqvsqaanihbespyjvbspyqdbsvyqvsiqwbesub;suqebsqsgrri
gbmmjomsdnffbisrtsubstrisbzbisqoesqseqc!”sVybosvrhhjomsfrvysqiuh,spjvy
ubqhnibdbhhsjugibaqvjrohsybshyrnvbesrnv:s“Qcb,sqcb!sqoesJ’ddsayqhbsyju
irnoesMrresYrgb,sqoesirnoesvybsYrio,sqoesirnoesvybsOripqcsUqbdhviru,
qoesirnoesgbiejvjro’hstdqubhsfbtribsJsmjzbsyjusng.sQoesvyjhsjhspyqvscb
yqzbshyjggbestri,subo!svrsayqhbsvyqvspyjvbspyqdbsrosfrvyshjebhsrtsdqoe,
qoesrzbisqddshjebhsrtsbqivy,svjddsybshgrnvhsfdqa sfdrresqoesirddhstjo
rnv.sPyqvshqcscb,subo,spjddscbshgdjabsyqoehsrosjv,sorp?sJsvyjo scbser
drr sfiqzb.”

“Qcb,sqcb!”shyrnvbesvybsyqigrrobbihsqoeshbqubo,sinoojomsadrhbisvrsvyb
bxajvbesrdesuqo:s“Qshyqigsbcbstrisvybspyjvbspyqdb;sqshyqigsdqoabstri
UrfcsEja !”

“Mresfdbhhscb,”sybshbbubesvrsyqdtshrfsqoesyqdtshyrnv.s“Mresfdbhhscb,
ubo.sHvbpqie!smrseiqpsvybsmibqvsubqhnibsrtsmirm.sFnvspyqv’hsvyjhsdrom
tqabsqfrnv,sUi.sHvqifna ;spjdvsvyrnsorvsayqhbsvybspyjvbspyqdb?sqivsorv
mqubstrisUrfcsEja ?”

“Jsqusmqubstrisyjhsairr beskqp,sqoestrisvybskqphsrtsEbqvysvrr,sAqgvqjo
Qyqf,sjtsjvstqjidcsarubhsjosvybspqcsrtsvybsfnhjobhhspbstrddrp;sfnvsJ
aqubsybibsvrsynovspyqdbh,sorvsucsaruuqoebi’hszbombqoab.sYrpsuqoc
fqiibdhspjddsvycszbombqoabscjbdesvybbsbzbosjtsvyrnsmbvvbhvsjv,sAqgvqjo
Qyqf?sjvspjddsorvstbvaysvybbsunaysjosrnisOqovna bvsuqi bv.”

“Oqovna bvsuqi bv!sYrrv!sFnvsarubsadrhbi,sHvqifna ;svyrnsiblnjibhvsq
djvvdbsdrpbisdqcbi.sJtsurobc’hsvrsfbsvybsubqhnibi,suqo,sqoesvyb
qaarnovqovhsyqzbsarugnvbesvybjismibqvsarnovjom-yrnhbsvybsmdrfb,sfc
mjiedjomsjvspjvysmnjobqh,srobsvrsbzbicsvyibbsgqivhsrtsqosjoay;svybo,
dbvsubsvbddsvybb,svyqvsucszbombqoabspjddstbvaysqsmibqvsgibujnus_ybib!_”

“Ybshujvbhsyjhsaybhv,”spyjhgbibesHvnff,s“pyqv’hsvyqvstri?subvyjo hsjv
ijomhsurhvszqhv,sfnvsyrddrp.”

“Zbombqoabsrosqsenufsfinvb!”saijbesHvqifna ,s“vyqvshjugdcshurvbsvybb
tirusfdjoebhvsjohvjoav!sUqeobhh!sVrsfbsboiqmbespjvysqsenufsvyjom,
AqgvqjosQyqf,shbbuhsfdqhgyburnh.”

“Yqi scbscbvsqmqjo—vybsdjvvdbsdrpbisdqcbi.sQddszjhjfdbsrfkbavh,suqo,
qibsfnvsqhsgqhvbfrqiesuqh h.sFnvsjosbqaysbzbov—josvybsdjzjomsqav,svyb
noernfvbesebbe—vybib,shrubsno orposfnvshvjddsibqhrojomsvyjomsgnvhstrivy
vybsurndejomhsrtsjvhstbqvnibhstirusfbyjoesvybsnoibqhrojomsuqh .sJtsuqo
pjddshvij b,shvij bsvyirnmysvybsuqh !sYrpsaqosvybsgijhrobisibqay
rnvhjebsbxabgvsfcsvyinhvjomsvyirnmysvybspqdd?sVrsub,svybspyjvbspyqdbsjh
vyqvspqdd,shyrzbesobqisvrsub.sHrubvjubhsJsvyjo svybib’hsoqnmyvsfbcroe.
Fnvs’vjhsbornmy.sYbsvqh hsub;sybsybqghsub;sJshbbsjosyjusrnviqmbrnh
hvibomvy,spjvysqosjohainvqfdbsuqdjabshjobpjomsjv.sVyqvsjohainvqfdb
vyjomsjhsayjbtdcspyqvsJsyqvb;sqoesfbsvybspyjvbspyqdbsqmbov,srisfbsvyb
pyjvbspyqdbsgijoajgqd,sJspjddspibq svyqvsyqvbsngrosyju.sVqd sorvsvrsub
rtsfdqhgybuc,suqo;sJ’eshvij bsvybshnosjtsjvsjohndvbesub.sTrisarndesvyb
hnosersvyqv,svybosarndesJsersvybsrvybi;shjoabsvybibsjhsbzbisqshrivsrt
tqjisgdqcsybibjo,skbqdrnhcsgibhjejomsrzbisqddsaibqvjroh.sFnvsorvsuc
uqhvbi,suqo,sjhsbzbosvyqvstqjisgdqc.sPyr’hsrzbisub?sVinvysyqvysor
arotjobh.sVq bsrttsvyjobsbcb!suribsjovrdbiqfdbsvyqostjboeh’smdqijomhsjh
qserdvjhyshvqib!sHr,shr;svyrnsibeebobhvsqoesgqdbhv;sucsybqvsyqhsubdvbe
vybbsvrsqombi-mdrp.sFnvsdrr scb,sHvqifna ,spyqvsjhshqjesjosybqv,svyqv
vyjomsnohqchsjvhbdt.sVybibsqibsubostiruspyruspqiuspriehsqibshuqdd
joejmojvc.sJsubqovsorvsvrsjoabohbsvybb.sDbvsjvsmr.sDrr !shbbscroebi
Vni jhysaybb hsrtshgrvvbesvqpo—djzjom,sfibqvyjomsgjavnibhsgqjovbesfc
vybshno.sVybsGqmqosdbrgqieh—vybsnoiba jomsqoesnoprihyjggjomsvyjomh,
vyqvsdjzb;sqoeshbb ,sqoesmjzbsorsibqhrohstrisvybsvriijesdjtbsvybcstbbd!
Vybsaibp,suqo,svybsaibp!sQibsvybcsorvsrobsqoesqddspjvysQyqf,sjosvyjh
uqvvbisrtsvybspyqdb?sHbbsHvnff!sybsdqnmyh!sHbbscroebisAyjdjqo!syb
horivhsvrsvyjo srtsjv.sHvqoesngsqujesvybsmbobiqdsyniijaqob,svycsrob
vrhvshqgdjomsaqoorv,sHvqifna !sQoespyqvsjhsjv?sIba rosjv.s’Vjhsfnvsvr
ybdgshvij bsqstjo;sorsproeirnhstbqvstrisHvqifna .sPyqvsjhsjvsurib?sTiru
vyjhsrobsgrrisynov,svybo,svybsfbhvsdqoabsrnvsrtsqddsOqovna bv,shnibdc
ybspjddsorvsyqomsfqa ,spybosbzbicstribuqhv-yqoesyqhsadnvaybesq
pybvhvrob?sQy!sarohviqjojomhshbjwbsvybb;sJshbb!svybsfjddrpsdjtvhsvybb!
Hgbq ,sfnvshgbq !—Qcb,sqcb!svycshjdboab,svybo,s_vyqv_szrjabhsvybb.
(_Qhjeb_)sHrubvyjomshyrvstirusucsejdqvbesorhvijdh,sybsyqhsjoyqdbesjvsjo
yjhsdnomh.sHvqifna sorpsjhsujob;saqoorvsrggrhbsubsorp,spjvyrnv
ibfbddjro.”

“Mres bbgsub!— bbgsnhsqdd!”suniunibesHvqifna ,sdrpdc.

Fnvsjosyjhskrcsqvsvybsboayqovbe,svqajvsqalnjbhaboabsrtsvybsuqvb,sQyqf
ejesorvsybqisyjhstribfrejomsjozraqvjro;soriscbvsvybsdrpsdqnmystirusvyb
yrde;soriscbvsvybsgibhqmjomszjfiqvjrohsrtsvybspjoehsjosvybsarieqmb;sori
cbvsvybsyrddrpstdqgsrtsvybshqjdhsqmqjohvsvybsuqhvh,sqhstrisqsurubov
vybjisybqivhshqo sjo.sTrisqmqjosHvqifna ’hserpoaqhvsbcbhsdjmyvbesng
pjvysvybshvnffrioobhhsrtsdjtb;svybshnfvbiiqobqosdqnmysejbesqpqc;svyb
pjoehsfdbpsro;svybshqjdhstjddbesrnv;svybshyjgsybqzbesqoesirddbesqh
fbtrib.sQy,scbsqeurojvjrohsqoespqiojomh!spycshvqcscbsorvspyboscbsarub?
Fnvsiqvybisqibscbsgibejavjrohsvyqospqiojomh,scbshyqerph!sCbvsorvshr
unaysgibejavjrohstiruspjvyrnv,sqhszbijtjaqvjrohsrtsvybstribmrjomsvyjomh
pjvyjo.sTrispjvysdjvvdbsbxvbioqdsvrsarohviqjosnh,svybsjoobiurhv
obabhhjvjbhsjosrnisfbjom,svybhbshvjddseijzbsnhsro.

“Vybsubqhnib!svybsubqhnib!”saijbesQyqf.

Ibabjzjomsvybsfijuujomsgbpvbi,sqoesvniojomsvrsvybsyqigrrobbih,syb
riebibesvybusvrsgirenabsvybjispbqgroh.sVybosiqomjomsvybusfbtribsyju
obqisvybsaqghvqo,spjvysvybjisyqigrrohsjosvybjisyqoeh,spyjdbsyjhsvyibb
uqvbhshvrresqvsyjhshjebspjvysvybjisdqoabh,sqoesvybsibhvsrtsvybshyjg’h
arugqocstriubesqsajiadbsirnoesvybsmirng;sybshvrrestrisqosjohvqov
hbqiayjomdcsbcbjomsbzbicsuqosrtsyjhsaibp.sFnvsvyrhbspjdesbcbhsubvsyjh,
qhsvybsfdrrehyrvsbcbhsrtsvybsgiqjijbsprdzbhsubbvsvybsbcbsrtsvybji
dbqebi,sbibsybsinhybhsrosqvsvybjisybqesjosvybsviqjdsrtsvybsfjhro;sfnv,
qdqh!srodcsvrstqddsjovrsvybsyjeeboshoqibsrtsvybsJoejqo.

“Eijo sqoesgqhh!”sybsaijbe,syqoejomsvybsybqzcsayqimbestdqmrosvrsvyb
obqibhvshbquqo.s“Vybsaibpsqdrobsorpseijo .sIrnoespjvysjv,sirnoe!sHyriv
eiqnmyvh—dromshpqddrph,subo;s’vjhsyrvsqhsHqvqo’hsyrrt.sHr,shr;sjvsmrbh
irnoesbxabddbovdc.sJvshgjiqdjwbhsjoscb;stri hsrnvsqvsvyb
hbigbov-hoqggjomsbcb.sPbddserob;sqdurhvseiqjobe.sVyqvspqcsjvspbov,svyjh
pqcsjvsarubh.sYqoesjvsub—ybib’hsqsyrddrp!sUbo,scbshbbusvybscbqih;shr
fijuujomsdjtbsjhsmndgbesqoesmrob.sHvbpqie,sibtjdd!

“Qvvboesorp,sucsfiqzbh.sJsyqzbsunhvbibescbsqddsirnoesvyjhsaqghvqo;sqoe
cbsuqvbh,stdqo subspjvyscrnisdqoabh;sqoescbsyqigrrobbih,shvqoesvybib
pjvyscrnisjiroh;sqoescb,shvrnvsuqijobih,sijomsubsjo,svyqvsJsuqcsjoshrub
hrivsibzjzbsqsorfdbsanhvrusrtsucstjhybiuqostqvybihsfbtribsub.sRsubo,
crnspjddscbvshbbsvyqv—Yq!sfrc,sarubsfqa ?sfqesgboojbhsarubsorvshrrobi.
Yqoesjvsub.sPyc,sorp,svyjhsgbpvbisyqesinosfijuujomsqmqjo,spbi’vsorv
vyrnsHv.sZjvnh’sjug—qpqc,svyrnsqmnb!

“Qezqoab,scbsuqvbh!sAirhhscrnisdqoabhstnddsfbtribsub.sPbddserob!sDbvsub
vrnaysvybsqxjh.”sHrshqcjom,spjvysbxvboebesqiu,sybsmiqhgbesvybsvyibb
dbzbd,siqejqvjomsdqoabhsqvsvybjisairhhbesabovib;spyjdbshrserjom,
hneebodcsqoesobizrnhdcsvpjvaybesvybu;subqopyjdb,smdqoajomsjovbovdcstiru
Hvqifna svrsHvnff;stirusHvnffsvrsTdqh .sJvshbbubesqhsvyrnmy,sfcshrub
oqubdbhh,sjovbijriszrdjvjro,sybsprndestqjosyqzbshyra besjovrsvybusvyb
hqubstjbicsburvjrosqaanundqvbespjvyjosvybsDbceboskqisrtsyjhsrpo
uqmobvjasdjtb.sVybsvyibbsuqvbhslnqjdbesfbtribsyjhshvirom,shnhvqjobe,
qoesuchvjasqhgbav.sHvnffsqoesTdqh sdrr beshjebpqchstirusyju;svybsyrobhv
bcbsrtsHvqifna stbddserpoijmyv.

“Joszqjo!”saijbesQyqf;s“fnv,suqcfb,s’vjhspbdd.sTrisejescbsvyibbsfnv
roabsvq bsvybstndd-triabeshyra ,svybosujobsrposbdbavijasvyjom,s_vyqv_
yqesgbiyqghsbxgjibestirusrnvsub.sGbiayqoab,svrr,sjvsprndesyqzbseirggbe
cbsebqe.sGbiayqoabscbsobbesjvsorv.sErposdqoabh!sQoesorp,scbsuqvbh,sJser
qggrjovscbsvyibbsangfbqibihsvrsucsvyibbsgqmqos johubosvybib—crosvyibb
urhvsyroriqfdbsmbovdbubosqoesorfdbubo,sucszqdjqovsyqigrrobbih.sEjheqjo
vybsvqh ?sPyqv,spybosvybsmibqvsGrgbspqhybhsvybstbbvsrtsfbmmqih,snhjom
yjhsvjqiqstrisbpbi?sRy,sucshpbbvsaqiejoqdh!scrnisrposaroebhabohjro,
_vyqv_shyqddsfboescbsvrsjv.sJsersorvsriebiscb;scbspjddsjv.sAnvscrni
hbjwjomhsqoeseiqpsvybsgrdbh,scbsyqigrrobbih!”

Hjdbovdcsrfbcjomsvybsriebi,svybsvyibbsyqigrrobbihsorpshvrrespjvysvyb
ebvqaybesjirosgqivsrtsvybjisyqigrroh,shrubsvyibbstbbvsdrom,sybde,sfqifh
ng,sfbtribsyju.

“Hvqfsubsorvspjvysvyqvs bboshvbbd!sAqovsvybu;saqovsvybusrzbi!s orpscb
orvsvybsmrfdbvsboe?sVniosngsvybshra bv!sHr,shr;sorp,scbsang-fbqibih,
qezqoab.sVybsjiroh!svq bsvybu;syrdesvybuspyjdbsJstjdd!”sTrivypjvy,
hdrpdcsmrjomstirusrobsrttjabisvrsvybsrvybi,sybsfijuubesvybsyqigrro
hra bvhspjvysvybstjbicspqvbihstirusvybsgbpvbi.

“Orp,svyibbsvrsvyibb,scbshvqoe.sAruuboesvybsuniebirnhsayqdjabh!sFbhvrp
vybu,scbspyrsqibsorpsuqebsgqivjbhsvrsvyjhsjoejhhrdnfdbsdbqmnb.sYq!
Hvqifna !sfnvsvybsebbesjhserob!sCrosiqvjtcjomshnosorpspqjvhsvrshjvsngro
jv.sEijo ,scbsyqigrrobbih!seijo sqoeshpbqi,scbsubosvyqvsuqosvyb
ebqvytndspyqdbfrqv’hsfrp—EbqvysvrsUrfcsEja !sMresynovsnhsqdd,sjtspbser
orvsynovsUrfcsEja svrsyjhsebqvy!”sVybsdrom,sfqifbeshvbbdsmrfdbvhspbib
djtvbe;sqoesvrsaijbhsqoesuqdbejavjrohsqmqjohvsvybspyjvbspyqdb,svyb
hgjijvhspbibshjundvqobrnhdcslnqttbeserpospjvysqsyjhh.sHvqifna sgqdbe,
qoesvniobe,sqoeshyjzbibe.sRoabsurib,sqoestjoqddc,svybsibgdbojhybe
gbpvbispbovsvybsirnoehsquromsvybstiqovjasaibp;spybo,spqzjomsyjhstibb
yqoesvrsvybu,svybcsqddsejhgbihbe;sqoesQyqfsibvjibespjvyjosyjhsaqfjo.


AYQGVBIs37.sHnohbv.

_Vybsaqfjo;sfcsvybshvbiospjoerph;sQyqfshjvvjomsqdrob,sqoesmqwjomsrnv_.

Jsdbqzbsqspyjvbsqoesvnifjespq b;sgqdbspqvbih,sgqdbisaybb h,spybib’bisJ
hqjd.sVybsbozjrnhsfjddrphshjebdromshpbddsvrspybdusucsviqa ;sdbvsvybu;
fnvstjihvsJsgqhh.

Croebi,sfcsbzbi-fijuujomsmrfdbv’hsiju,svybspqiuspqzbhsfdnhysdj bspjob.
Vybsmrdesfirpsgdnufhsvybsfdnb.sVybsejzbishno—hdrpsejzbestirusorro—mrbh
erpo;sucshrndsurnovhsng!shybspbqijbhspjvysybisboedbhhsyjdd.sJh,svybo,
vybsairposvrrsybqzcsvyqvsJspbqi?svyjhsJirosAirposrtsDrufqiec.sCbvsjhsjv
fijmyvspjvysuqocsqsmbu;sJsvybspbqibi,shbbsorvsjvhstqistdqhyjomh;sfnv
eqi dcstbbdsvyqvsJspbqisvyqv,svyqvseqwwdjomdcsarotrnoeh.s’Vjhsjiro—vyqv
Js orp—orvsmrde.s’Vjhshgdjv,svrr—vyqvsJstbbd;svybskqmmbesbembsmqddhsub
hr,sucsfiqjoshbbuhsvrsfbqvsqmqjohvsvybshrdjesubvqd;sqcb,shvbbdsh ndd,
ujob;svybshrivsvyqvsobbehsorsybdubvsjosvybsurhvsfiqjo-fqvvbijomstjmyv!

Eicsybqvsngrosucsfirp?sRy!svjubspqh,spybosqhsvybshnoijhbsorfdcshgniibe
ub,shrsvybshnohbvshrrvybe.sOrsurib.sVyjhsdrzbdcsdjmyv,sjvsdjmyvhsorv
ub;sqddsdrzbdjobhhsjhsqomnjhysvrsub,shjoabsJsaqosob’bisbokrc.sMjtvbe
pjvysvybsyjmysgbiabgvjro,sJsdqa svybsdrp,sbokrcjomsgrpbi;sequobe,surhv
hnfvdcsqoesurhvsuqdjmoqovdc!sequobesjosvybsujehvsrtsGqiqejhb!sMrre
ojmyv—mrresojmyv!s(_pqzjomsyjhsyqoe,sybsurzbhstirusvybspjoerp_.)

’Vpqhsorvshrsyqiesqsvqh .sJsvyrnmyvsvrstjoesrobshvnffrio,sqvsvybsdbqhv;
fnvsucsrobsarmmbesajiadbstjvhsjovrsqddsvybjiszqijrnhspybbdh,sqoesvybc
ibzrdzb.sRi,sjtscrnspjdd,sdj bshrsuqocsqov-yjddhsrtsgrpebi,svybcsqdd
hvqoesfbtribsub;sqoesJsvybjisuqvay.sRy,syqie!svyqvsvrstjibsrvybih,svyb
uqvaysjvhbdtsunhvsobbehsfbspqhvjom!sPyqvsJ’zbseqibe,sJ’zbspjddbe;sqoe
pyqvsJ’zbspjddbe,sJ’ddser!sVybcsvyjo subsuqe—Hvqifna serbh;sfnvsJ’u
eburojqa,sJsqusuqeobhhsuqeebobe!sVyqvspjdesuqeobhhsvyqv’hsrodcsaqdusvr
arugibyboesjvhbdt!sVybsgirgybacspqhsvyqvsJshyrndesfbsejhubufbibe;
qoe—Qcb!sJsdrhvsvyjhsdbm.sJsorpsgirgybhcsvyqvsJspjddsejhubufbisuc
ejhubufbibi.sOrp,svybo,sfbsvybsgirgybvsqoesvybstndtjddbisrob.sVyqv’h
uribsvyqoscb,scbsmibqvsmreh,sbzbispbib.sJsdqnmysqoesyrrvsqvscb,scb
aija bv-gdqcbih,scbsgnmjdjhvh,scbsebqtsFni bhsqoesfdjoebesFboejmrbh!sJ
pjddsorvshqcsqhshayrrdfrchsersvrsfnddjbh—Vq bshrubsrobsrtscrnisrpo
hjwb;sero’vsgruubds_ub!_sOr,scb’zbs ora besubserpo,sqoesJsqusngsqmqjo;
fnvs_cb_syqzbsinosqoesyjeebo.sArubstrivystirusfbyjoescrnisarvvrosfqmh!
Jsyqzbsorsdromsmnosvrsibqayscb.sArub,sQyqf’hsarugdjubovhsvrscb;sarub
qoeshbbsjtscbsaqoshpbizbsub.sHpbizbsub?scbsaqoorvshpbizbsub,sbdhbscb
hpbizbscrnihbdzbh!suqosyqhscbsvybib.sHpbizbsub?sVybsgqvysvrsucstjxbe
gnigrhbsjhsdqjespjvysjirosiqjdh,spybibrosucshrndsjhsmirrzbesvrsino.
Rzbisnohrnoebesmrimbh,svyirnmysvybsijtdbesybqivhsrtsurnovqjoh,snoebi
vriibovh’sfbeh,snobiijomdcsJsinhy!sOqnmyv’hsqosrfhvqadb,soqnmyv’hsqo
qomdbsvrsvybsjirospqc!


AYQGVBIs38.sEnh .

_FcsvybsUqjouqhv;sHvqifna sdbqojomsqmqjohvsjv_.

Ucshrndsjhsuribsvyqosuqvaybe;shyb’hsrzbiuqoobe;sqoesfcsqsuqeuqo!
Johnttbiqfdbshvjom,svyqvshqojvcshyrndesmirnoesqiuhsroshnaysqstjbde!sFnv
ybseijddbesebbgserpo,sqoesfdqhvbesqddsucsibqhrosrnvsrtsub!sJsvyjo sJ
hbbsyjhsjugjrnhsboe;sfnvstbbdsvyqvsJsunhvsybdgsyjusvrsjv.sPjddsJ,sojdd
J,svybsjobttqfdbsvyjomsyqhsvjbesubsvrsyju;svrphsubspjvysqsaqfdbsJsyqzb
ors ojtbsvrsanv.sYriijfdbsrdesuqo!sPyr’hsrzbisyju,sybsaijbh;—qcb,syb
prndesfbsqseburaiqvsvrsqddsqfrzb;sdrr ,syrpsybsdriehsjvsrzbisqddsfbdrp!
Ry!sJsgdqjodcshbbsucsujhbiqfdbsrttjab,—vrsrfbc,sibfbddjom;sqoesprihb
cbv,svrsyqvbspjvysvrnaysrtsgjvc!sTrisjosyjhsbcbhsJsibqeshrubsdnijesprb
prndeshyijzbdsubsng,syqesJsjv.sCbvsjhsvybibsyrgb.sVjubsqoesvjebstdrp
pjeb.sVybsyqvbespyqdbsyqhsvybsirnoespqvbicspridesvrshpjusjo,sqhsvyb
huqddsmrde-tjhysyqhsjvhsmdqhhcsmdrfb.sYjhsybqzbo-johndvjomsgnigrhb,sMre
uqcspbembsqhjeb.sJsprndesngsybqiv,spbibsjvsorvsdj bsdbqe.sFnvsucspyrdb
adra ’hsinoserpo;sucsybqivsvybsqdd-arovirddjomspbjmyv,sJsyqzbsors bcsvr
djtvsqmqjo.

[_Qsfnihvsrtsibzbdicstirusvybstribaqhvdb_.]

Ry,sMre!svrshqjdspjvyshnaysqsybqvybosaibpsvyqvsyqzbshuqddsvrnaysrt
ynuqosurvybihsjosvybu!sPybdgbeshrubpybibsfcsvybshyqi jhyshbq.sVybspyjvb
pyqdbsjhsvybjisebujmrimro.sYqi !svybsjotbioqdsrimjbh!svyqvsibzbdicsjh
tripqie!suqi svybsnotqdvbijomshjdboabsqtv!sUbvyjo hsjvsgjavnibhsdjtb.
Triburhvsvyirnmysvybshgqi djomshbqshyrrvhsrosvybsmqc,sbufqvvdbe,
fqovbijomsfrp,sfnvsrodcsvrseiqmseqi sQyqfsqtvbisjv,spybibsybsfirreh
pjvyjosyjhshvbiopqiesaqfjo,sfnjdebesrzbisvybsebqespqvbisrtsvybspq b,
qoestnivybisro,synovbesfcsjvhsprdtjhysmnimdjomh.sVybsdromsyrpdsvyijddh
ubsvyirnmy!sGbqab!scbsibzbddbih,sqoeshbvsvybspqvay!sRy,sdjtb!s’vjhsjo
qosyrnisdj bsvyjh,spjvyshrndsfbqvserposqoesybdesvrs orpdbemb,—qhspjde,
novnvribesvyjomhsqibstriabesvrstbbe—Ry,sdjtb!s’vjhsorpsvyqvsJserstbbd
vybsdqvbovsyriirisjosvybb!sfnvs’vjhsorvsub!svyqvsyriiri’hsrnvsrtsub!
qoespjvysvybshrtvstbbdjomsrtsvybsynuqosjosub,scbvspjddsJsvicsvrstjmyv
cb,scbsmiju,sgyqovrustnvnibh!sHvqoesfcsub,syrdesub,sfjoesub,sRscb
fdbhhbesjotdnboabh!


AYQGVBIs39.sTjihvsOjmyv-Pqvay.

Trib-Vrg.

(_Hvnffshrdnh,sqoesuboejomsqsfiqab_.)

Yq!syq!syq!syq!sybu!sadbqisucsvyirqv!—J’zbsfbbosvyjo jomsrzbisjvsbzbi
hjoab,sqoesvyqvsyq,syq’hsvybstjoqdsarohblnboab.sPycshr?sFbaqnhbsq
dqnmy’hsvybspjhbhv,sbqhjbhvsqohpbisvrsqddsvyqv’hslnbbi;sqoesarubspyqv
pjdd,srobsarutriv’hsqdpqchsdbtv—vyqvsnotqjdjomsarutrivsjh,sjv’hsqdd
gibebhvjoqvbe.sJsybqiesorvsqddsyjhsvqd spjvysHvqifna ;sfnvsvrsucsgrri
bcbsHvqifna svybosdrr beshrubvyjomsqhsJsvybsrvybisbzbojomstbdv.sFbshnib
vybsrdesUrmndsyqhstjxbesyju,svrr.sJsvpjmmbesjv,s obpsjv;syqesyqesvyb
mjtv,sujmyvsibqejdcsyqzbsgirgybhjbesjv—trispybosJsadqggbesucsbcbsngro
yjhsh nddsJshqpsjv.sPbdd,sHvnff,s_pjhb_sHvnff—vyqv’hsucsvjvdb—pbdd,
Hvnff,spyqvsrtsjv,sHvnff?sYbib’hsqsaqiaqhb.sJs orpsorvsqddsvyqvsuqcsfb
arujom,sfnvsfbsjvspyqvsjvspjdd,sJ’ddsmrsvrsjvsdqnmyjom.sHnaysqspqmmjhy
dbbijomsqhsdni hsjosqddscrnisyriijfdbh!sJstbbdstnooc.sTq,sdq!sdjiiq,
h jiiq!sPyqv’hsucsknjacsdjvvdbsgbqisqvsyrubserjomsorp?sAicjomsjvhsbcbh
rnv?—Mjzjomsqsgqivcsvrsvybsdqhvsqiijzbesyqigrrobbih,sJseqibshqc,smqcsqh
qstijmqvb’hsgbooqov,sqoeshrsqusJ—tq,sdq!sdjiiq,sh jiiq!sRy—


Pb’ddseijo svr-ojmyvspjvysybqivhsqhsdjmyv,sVrsdrzb,sqhsmqcsqoestdbbvjom
Qhsfnffdbhsvyqvshpju,srosvybsfbq bi’hsfiju,sQoesfibq srosvybsdjghspyjdb
ubbvjom.



Qsfiqzbshvqzbsvyqv—pyrsaqddh?sUi.sHvqifna ?sQcb,sqcb,shji—(_Qhjeb_)
yb’hsucshngbijri,sybsyqhsyjhsvrr,sjtsJ’usorvsujhvq bo.—Qcb,sqcb,shji,
knhvsvyirnmyspjvysvyjhskrf—arujom.


AYQGVBIs40.sUjeojmyv,sTribaqhvdb.

YQIGRROBBIHsQOEsHQJDRIH.

(_Tribhqjdsijhbhsqoesejharzbihsvybspqvayshvqoejom,sdrnomjom,sdbqojom,
qoesdcjomsjoszqijrnhsqvvjvnebh,sqddshjomjomsjosayrinh_.)


ssTqibpbddsqoesqejbnsvrscrn,sHgqojhysdqejbh!sTqibpbddsqoesqejbnsvrscrn,
ssdqejbhsrtsHgqjo!sRnisaqgvqjo’hsaruuqoebe.—



1HVsOQOVNA BVsHQJDRI.sRy,sfrch,sero’vsfbshbovjubovqd;sjv’hsfqestrisvyb
ejmbhvjro!sVq bsqsvroja,strddrpsub!

(_Hjomh,sqoesqddstrddrp._)


sRnisaqgvqjoshvrresngrosvybseba ,sQshgc-mdqhhsjosyjhsyqoe,sQszjbpjomsrt
svyrhbsmqddqovspyqdbhsVyqvsfdbpsqvsbzbicshviqoe.sRy,scrnisvnfhsjoscrni
sfrqvh,sucsfrch,sQoesfcscrnisfiqabhshvqoe,sQoespb’ddsyqzbsrobsrtsvyrhb
stjobspyqdbh,sYqoe,sfrch,srzbisyqoe!sHr,sfbsaybbic,sucsdqeh!suqcscrni
sybqivhsobzbistqjd!sPyjdbsvybsfrdesyqigrrobisjhshvij jomsvybspyqdb!



UQVB’HsZRJABsTIRUsVYBsLNQIVBI-EBA .sBjmyvsfbddhsvybib,stripqie!

2OEsOQOVNA BVsHQJDRI.sQzqhvsvybsayrinh!sBjmyvsfbddhsvybib!se’cbsybqi,
fbdd-frc?sHvij bsvybsfbddsbjmyv,svyrnsGjg!svyrnsfdqa djom!sqoesdbvsub
aqddsvybspqvay.sJ’zbsvybshrivsrtsurnvystrisvyqv—vybsyrmhybqesurnvy.sHr,
hr,s(_vyinhvhsyjhsybqeserposvybshanvvdb_,)sHvqi-fr-d-b-b-o-h,sq-y-r-c!
Bjmyvsfbddhsvybibsfbdrp!sVnufdbsng!

ENVAYsHQJDRI.sMiqoeshorrwjomsvr-ojmyv,suqvc;stqvsojmyvstrisvyqv.sJsuqi 
vyjhsjosrnisrdesUrmnd’hspjob;sjv’hslnjvbsqhsebqebojomsvrshrubsqh
tjddjgjomsvrsrvybih.sPbshjom;svybcshdbbg—qcb,sdjbserposvybib,sdj b
mirnoe-vjbisfnvvh.sQvs’busqmqjo!sVybib,svq bsvyjhsarggbi-gnug,sqoesyqjd
’busvyirnmysjv.sVbdds’busvrsqzqhvseibqujomsrtsvybjisdqhhbh.sVbdds’bu
jv’hsvybsibhniibavjro;svybcsunhvs jhhsvybjisdqhv,sqoesarubsvrsknemubov.
Vyqv’hsvybspqc—_vyqv’h_sjv;svycsvyirqvsqjo’vshgrjdbespjvysbqvjom
Quhvbiequsfnvvbi.

TIBOAYsHQJDRI.sYjhv,sfrch!sdbv’hsyqzbsqskjmsrisvprsfbtribspbsijebsvr
qoayrisjosFdqo bvsFqc.sPyqvshqcscb?sVybibsarubhsvybsrvybispqvay.sHvqoe
fcsqddsdbmh!sGjg!sdjvvdbsGjg!syniiqyspjvyscrnisvqufrnijob!

GJG.s(_Hnd csqoeshdbbgc._)sEro’vs orpspybibsjvsjh.

TIBOAYsHQJDRI.sFbqvsvycsfbddc,svybo,sqoespqmsvycsbqih.sKjmsjv,subo,sJ
hqc;subiic’hsvybsprie;syniiqy!sEquosub,spro’vscrnseqoab?sTriu,sorp,
Joejqo-tjdb,sqoesmqddrgsjovrsvybsernfdb-hynttdb?sVyirpscrnihbdzbh!
Dbmh!sdbmh!

JABDQOEsHQJDRI.sJsero’vsdj bscrnistdrri,suqvc;sjv’hsvrrshgijomcsvrsuc
vqhvb.sJ’usnhbesvrsjab-tdrrih.sJ’ushriicsvrsvyirpsardespqvbisrosvyb
hnfkbav;sfnvsbxanhbsub.

UQDVBHBsHQJDRI.sUbsvrr;spybib’hscrnismjidh?sPyrsfnvsqstrrdsprndesvq b
yjhsdbtvsyqoesfcsyjhsijmyv,sqoeshqcsvrsyjuhbdt,syrpse’cbser?sGqivobih!
Jsunhvsyqzbsgqivobih!

HJAJDJQOsHQJDRI.sQcb;smjidhsqoesqsmibbo!—vybosJ’ddsyrgspjvyscb;scbq,
vniosmiqhhyrggbi!

DROM-JHDQOEsHQJDRI.sPbdd,spbdd,scbshnd jbh,svybib’hsgdbovcsuribsrtsnh.
Yrbsariospyboscrnsuqc,shqcsJ.sQddsdbmhsmrsvrsyqizbhvshrro.sQy!sybib
arubhsvybsunhja;sorpstrisjv!

QWRIBsHQJDRI.s(_Qhaboejom,sqoesgjvayjomsvybsvqufrnijobsngsvyb
hanvvdb_.)sYbibscrnsqib,sGjg;sqoesvybib’hsvybspjoedqhh-fjvvh;sngscrn
urnov!sOrp,sfrch!s(_Vybsyqdtsrtsvybuseqoabsvrsvybsvqufrnijob;shrubsmr
fbdrp;shrubshdbbgsrisdjbsquromsvybsarjdhsrtsijmmjom.sRqvyhsq-gdbovc_.)

QWRIBsHQJDRI.s(_Eqoajom_)sMrsjv,sGjg!sFqomsjv,sfbdd-frc!sIjmsjv,sejm
jv,shvjmsjv,slnjmsjv,sfbdd-frc!sUq bstjib-tdjbh;sfibq svybskjomdbih!

GJG.sKjomdbih,scrnshqc?—vybibsmrbhsqorvybi,seirggbesrtt;sJsgrnoesjvshr.

AYJOQsHQJDRI.sIqvvdbsvycsvbbvy,svybo,sqoesgrnoesqpqc;suq bsqsgqmreqsrt
vychbdt.

TIBOAYsHQJDRI.sUbiic-uqe!sYrdesngsvycsyrrg,sGjg,svjddsJsknugsvyirnmy
jv!sHgdjvskjfh!svbqiscrnihbdzbh!

VQHYVBMR.s(_Lnjbvdcshur jom._)sVyqv’hsqspyjvbsuqo;sybsaqddhsvyqvstno:
ynugy!sJshqzbsucshpbqv.

RDEsUQOXsHQJDRI.sJsproebispybvybisvyrhbskrddcsdqehsfbvyjo svybusrtspyqv
vybcsqibseqoajomsrzbi.sJ’ddseqoabsrzbiscrnismiqzb,sJspjdd—vyqv’hsvyb
fjvvbibhvsvyibqvsrtscrnisojmyv-prubo,svyqvsfbqvsybqe-pjoehsirnoe
ariobih.sRsAyijhv!svrsvyjo srtsvybsmibbosoqzjbhsqoesvybsmibbo-h nddbe
aibph!sPbdd,spbdd;sfbdj bsvybspyrdbspride’hsqsfqdd,sqhscrnshayrdqih
yqzbsjv;sqoeshrs’vjhsijmyvsvrsuq bsrobsfqddirrusrtsjv.sEqoabsro,sdqeh,
crn’ibscrnom;sJspqhsroab.

3EsOQOVNA BVsHQJDRI.sHgbddsry!—pybp!svyjhsjhsprihbsvyqosgnddjomsqtvbi
pyqdbhsjosqsaqdu—mjzbsnhsqspyjtt,sVqhy.

(_Vybcsabqhbseqoajom,sqoesmqvybisjosadnhvbih.sUbqovjubsvybsh c
eqi boh—vybspjoesijhbh_.)

DQHAQIsHQJDRI.sFcsFiqyuq!sfrch,sjv’ddsfbsernhbshqjdshrro.sVybsh c-frio,
yjmy-vjebsMqombhsvniobesvrspjoe!sVyrnshyrpbhvsvycsfdqa sfirp,sHbbzq!

UQDVBHBsHQJDRI.s(_Ibadjojomsqoeshyq jomsyjhsaqg_.)sJv’hsvybspqzbh—vyb
horp’hsaqghsvniosvrskjmsjvsorp.sVybc’ddshyq bsvybjisvqhhbdhshrro.sOrp
prndesqddsvybspqzbhspbibsprubo,svybosJ’esmrseirpo,sqoesayqhhbbspjvy
vybusbzbiurib!sVybib’hsoqnmyvshrshpbbvsrosbqivy—ybqzbosuqcsorvsuqvay
jv!—qhsvyrhbshpjtvsmdqoabhsrtspqiu,spjdesfrhruhsjosvybseqoab,spybosvyb
rzbi-qifrijomsqiuhsyjebshnaysijgb,sfnihvjomsmiqgbh.

HJAJDJQOsHQJDRI.s(_Ibadjojom_.)sVbddsubsorvsrtsjv!sYqi scb,sdqe—tdbbv
jovbidqajomhsrtsvybsdjufh—djvybshpqcjomh—arcjomh—tdnvvbijomh!sdjg!
ybqiv!syjg!sqddsmiqwb:snoabqhjomsvrnaysqoesmr!sorvsvqhvb,srfhbizbscb,
bdhbsarubshqvjbvc.sBy,sGqmqo?s(_Onemjom_.)

VQYJVQOsHQJDRI.s(_Ibadjojomsrosqsuqv_.)sYqjd,syrdcsoq beobhhsrtsrni
eqoajomsmjidh!—vybsYbbzq-Ybbzq!sQy!sdrpszbjdbe,syjmysgqdubesVqyjvj!sJ
hvjddsibhvsubsrosvycsuqv,sfnvsvybshrtvshrjdsyqhshdje!sJshqpsvybbsprzbo
josvybsprre,sucsuqv!smibbosvybstjihvseqcsJsfirnmyvscbsvyboab;sorpsprio
qoespjdvbeslnjvb.sQysub!—orvsvyrnsorisJsaqosfbqisvybsayqomb!sYrpsvybo,
jtshrsfbsviqohgdqovbesvrscrosh c?sYbqisJsvybsirqijomshvibquhstiru
Gjiryjvbb’hsgbq srtshgbqih,spybosvybcsdbqgserposvybsaiqmhsqoeseirposvyb
zjddqmbh?—Vybsfdqhv!svybsfdqhv!sNg,shgjob,sqoesubbvsjv!s(_Dbqghsvrsyjh
tbbv_.)

GRIVNMNBHBsHQJDRI.sYrpsvybshbqsirddhshpqhyjoms’mqjohvsvybshjeb!sHvqoe
fcstrisibbtjom,sybqivjbh!svybspjoehsqibsknhvsairhhjomshprieh,sgbdd-ubdd
vybc’ddsmrsdnomjomsgibhbovdc.

EQOJHYsHQJDRI.sAiqa ,saiqa ,srdeshyjg!shrsdromsqhsvyrnsaiqa bhv,svyrn
yrdebhv!sPbddserob!sVybsuqvbsvybibsyrdehscbsvrsjvshvjttdc.sYb’hsorsurib
qtiqjesvyqosvybsjhdbstrivsqvsAqvvbmqv,sgnvsvybibsvrstjmyvsvybsFqdvja
pjvyshvriu-dqhybesmnoh,srospyjaysvybshbq-hqdvsaq bh!

4VYsOQOVNA BVsHQJDRI.sYbsyqhsyjhsriebih,sujoescbsvyqv.sJsybqiesrdesQyqf
vbddsyjusybsunhvsqdpqchs jddsqshlnqdd,shrubvyjomsqhsvybcsfnihvsq
pqvbihgrnvspjvysqsgjhvrd—tjibscrnishyjgsijmyvsjovrsjv!

BOMDJHYsHQJDRI.sFdrre!sfnvsvyqvsrdesuqo’hsqsmiqoesrdesarzb!sPbsqibsvyb
dqehsvrsynovsyjusngsyjhspyqdb!

QDD.sQcb!sqcb!

RDEsUQOXsHQJDRI.sYrpsvybsvyibbsgjobhshyq b!sGjobhsqibsvybsyqiebhvshriv
rtsvibbsvrsdjzbspyboshyjtvbesvrsqocsrvybishrjd,sqoesybibsvybib’hsorob
fnvsvybsaibp’hsanihbesadqc.sHvbqec,sybduhuqo!shvbqec.sVyjhsjhsvybshriv
rtspbqvybispybosfiqzbsybqivhshoqgsqhyrib,sqoes bbdbesynddhshgdjvsqv
hbq.sRnisaqgvqjosyqhsyjhsfjivyuqi ;sdrr scroebi,sfrch,svybib’hsqorvybi
josvybsh c—dnije-dj b,scbshbb,sqddsbdhbsgjvaysfdqa .

EQMMRR.sPyqvsrtsvyqv?sPyr’hsqtiqjesrtsfdqa ’hsqtiqjesrtsub!sJ’u
lnqiijbesrnvsrtsjv!

HGQOJHYsHQJDRI.s(_Qhjeb_.)sYbspqovhsvrsfnddc,sqy!—vybsrdesminembsuq bh
ubsvrnaycs(_Qezqoajom_.)sQcb,syqigrrobbi,svycsiqabsjhsvybsnoebojqfdb
eqi shjebsrtsuqo joe—ebzjdjhyseqi sqvsvyqv.sOrsrttboab.

EQMMRRs(_mijudc_).sOrob.

HV.sKQMR’HsHQJDRI.sVyqvsHgqojqie’hsuqesriseino .sFnvsvyqvsaqo’vsfb,sri
bdhbsjosyjhsrobsaqhbsrnisrdesUrmnd’hstjib-pqvbihsqibshrubpyqvsdromsjo
pri jom.

5VYsOQOVNA BVsHQJDRI.sPyqv’hsvyqvsJshqp—djmyvojom?sCbh.

HGQOJHYsHQJDRI.sOr;sEqmmrrshyrpjomsyjhsvbbvy.

EQMMRRs(_hgijomjom_).sHpqddrpsvyjob,suqooj jo!sPyjvbsh jo,spyjvbsdjzbi!

HGQOJHYsHQJDRIs(_ubbvjomsyju_).s ojtbsvybbsybqivjdc!sfjmstiqub,shuqdd
hgjijv!

QDD.sQsirp!sqsirp!sqsirp!

VQHYVBMRs(_pjvysqspyjtt_).sQsirpsq’drp,sqoesqsirpsqdrtv—Mrehsqoe
ubo—frvysfiqpdbih!sYnugy!

FBDTQHVsHQJDRI.sQsirp!sqiiqysqsirp!sVybsZjimjosfbsfdbhhbe,sqsirp!
Gdnombsjospjvyscb!

BOMDJHYsHQJDRI.sTqjisgdqc!sHoqvaysvybsHgqojqie’hs ojtb!sQsijom,sqsijom!

RDEsUQOXsHQJDRI.sIbqecstriube.sVybib!svybsijombesyrijwro.sJosvyqvsijom
Aqjoshvina sQfbd.sHpbbvspri ,sijmyvspri !sOr?sPycsvybo,sMre,suqe’hv
vyrnsvybsijom?

UQVB’HsZRJABsTIRUsVYBsLNQIVBI-EBA .sYqoehsfcsvybsyqdcqieh!sjo
vrg-mqddqovshqjdh!sHvqoesfcsvrsibbtsvrghqjdh!

QDD.sVybshlnqdd!svybshlnqdd!sknug,sucskrddjbh!s(_Vybcshaqvvbi_.)

GJGs(_hyijo jomsnoebisvybspjoedqhh_).sKrddjbh?sDriesybdgshnayskrddjbh!
Aijhy,saiqhy!svybibsmrbhsvybskjf-hvqc!sFdqom-pyqom!sMre!sEna sdrpbi,
Gjg,sybibsarubhsvybsircqdscqie!sJv’hsprihbsvyqosfbjomsjosvybspyjidbe
prreh,svybsdqhvseqcsrtsvybscbqi!sPyr’esmrsadjufjomsqtvbisaybhvonvhsorp?
Fnvsvybibsvybcsmr,sqddsanihjom,sqoesybibsJsero’v.sTjobsgirhgbavhsvr
’bu;svybc’ibsrosvybsirqesvrsybqzbo.sYrdesrosyqie!sKjuujoj,spyqvsq
hlnqdd!sFnvsvyrhbsayqghsvybibsqibsprihbscbv—vybcsqibscrnispyjvb
hlnqddh,svybc.sPyjvbshlnqddh?spyjvbspyqdb,shyjii!shyjii!sYbibsyqzbsJ
ybqiesqddsvybjisayqvsknhvsorp,sqoesvybspyjvbspyqdb—hyjii!shyjii!—fnv
hgr bosrtsroab!sqoesrodcsvyjhsbzbojom—jvsuq bhsubskjomdbsqddsrzbisdj b
ucsvqufrnijob—vyqvsqoqaroeqsrtsqosrdesuqoshpribs’busjosvrsynovsyju!sRy,
vyrnsfjmspyjvbsMresqdrtvsvybibshrubpybibsjoscroseqi obhh,syqzbsubiacsro
vyjhshuqddsfdqa sfrcserposybib;sgibhbizbsyjustirusqddsubosvyqvsyqzbsor
frpbdhsvrstbbdstbqi!


AYQGVBIs41.sUrfcsEja .

J,sJhyuqbd,spqhsrobsrtsvyqvsaibp;sucshyrnvhsyqesmrobsngspjvysvybsibhv;
ucsrqvysyqesfbbospbdebespjvysvybjih;sqoeshvirombisJshyrnvbe,sqoesurib
ejesJsyquubisqoesadjoaysucsrqvy,sfbaqnhbsrtsvybseibqesjosucshrnd.sQ
pjde,suchvjaqd,shcugqvybvjaqdstbbdjomspqhsjosub;sQyqf’hslnboaydbhhstbne
hbbubesujob.sPjvysmibbecsbqihsJsdbqiobesvybsyjhvricsrtsvyqvsuniebirnh
urohvbisqmqjohvspyrusJsqoesqddsvybsrvybihsyqesvq bosrnisrqvyhsrt
zjrdboabsqoesibzbomb.

Trishrubsvjubsgqhv,svyrnmysqvsjovbizqdhsrodc,svybsnoqaarugqojbe,
hbadnebesPyjvbsPyqdbsyqesyqnovbesvyrhbsnoajzjdjwbeshbqhsurhvdc
tiblnbovbesfcsvybsHgbiusPyqdbstjhybiubo.sFnvsorvsqddsrtsvybus obpsrt
yjhsbxjhvboab;srodcsqstbpsrtsvybu,sarugqiqvjzbdc,syqes orpjomdcshbbo
yju;spyjdbsvybsonufbispyrsqhscbvsyqesqavnqddcsqoes orpjomdcsmjzbo
fqvvdbsvrsyju,spqhshuqddsjoebbe.sTri,srpjomsvrsvybsdqimbsonufbisrt
pyqdb-ainjhbih;svybsejhriebidcspqcsvybcspbibshgijo dbesrzbisvybsbovjib
pqvbicsajianutbiboab,suqocsrtsvybusqezbovnirnhdcsgnhyjomsvybjislnbhv
qdromshrdjvqicsdqvjvnebh,shrsqhshbderusrisobzbistrisqspyrdbsvpbdzburovy
risuribsrosqshvibvay,svrsboarnovbisqshjomdbsobph-vbddjomshqjdsrtsqoc
hriv;svybsjoriejoqvbsdbomvysrtsbqayshbgqiqvbszrcqmb;svybsjiibmndqijvc
rtsvybsvjubhsrtshqjdjomstirusyrub;sqddsvybhb,spjvysrvybisajianuhvqoabh,
ejibavsqoesjoejibav,sdromsrfhvinavbesvybshgibqesvyirnmysvybspyrdb
pride-pjebspyqdjom-tdbbvsrtsvybshgbajqdsjoejzjenqdjwjomsvjejomh
aroabiojomsUrfcsEja .sJvspqhsyqiedcsvrsfbsernfvbe,svyqvshbzbiqdszbhhbdh
ibgrivbesvrsyqzbsboarnovbibe,sqvshnaysrishnaysqsvjub,srisroshnaysri
hnaysqsubijejqo,sqsHgbiusPyqdbsrtsnoaruurosuqmojvnebsqoesuqdjmojvc,
pyjayspyqdb,sqtvbiserjomsmibqvsujhayjbtsvrsyjhsqhhqjdqovh,syqe
arugdbvbdcsbhaqgbesvybu;svrshrubsujoehsjvspqhsorvsqosnotqji
gibhnugvjro,sJshqc,svyqvsvybspyqdbsjoslnbhvjrosunhvsyqzbsfbbosorsrvybi
vyqosUrfcsEja .sCbvsqhsrtsdqvbsvybsHgbiusPyqdbstjhybicsyqesfbbosuqi be
fcszqijrnhsqoesorvsnotiblnbovsjohvqoabhsrtsmibqvstbirajvc,sanoojom,sqoe
uqdjabsjosvybsurohvbisqvvqa be;svybibtribsjvspqh,svyqvsvyrhbspyrsfc
qaajebovsjmoriqovdcsmqzbsfqvvdbsvrsUrfcsEja ;shnaysynovbih,sgbiyqgh,
trisvybsurhvsgqiv,spbibsarovbovsvrsqhaijfbsvybsgbandjqisvbiirisybsfibe,
urib,sqhsjvspbib,svrsvybsgbijdhsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbstjhybicsqvsdqimb,
vyqosvrsvybsjoejzjenqdsaqnhb.sJosvyqvspqc,surhvdc,svybsejhqhvirnh
boarnovbisfbvpbbosQyqfsqoesvybspyqdbsyqesyjvybivrsfbbosgrgndqidc
ibmqiebe.

Qoesqhstrisvyrhbspyr,sgibzjrnhdcsybqijomsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb,sfcsayqoab
aqnmyvshjmyvsrtsyju;sjosvybsfbmjoojomsrtsvybsvyjomsvybcsyqesbzbicsrob
rtsvybu,sqdurhv,sqhsfrdedcsqoestbqidbhhdcsdrpbibestrisyju,sqhstrisqoc
rvybispyqdbsrtsvyqvshgbajbh.sFnvsqvsdbomvy,shnaysaqdqujvjbhsejesbohnb
josvybhbsqhhqndvh—orvsibhvijavbesvrshgiqjobespijhvhsqoesqo dbh,sfir bo
djufh,srisebzrnijomsqugnvqvjroh—fnvstqvqdsvrsvybsdqhvsebmibbsrt
tqvqdjvc;svyrhbsibgbqvbesejhqhvirnhsibgndhbh,sqddsqaanundqvjomsqoe
gjdjomsvybjisvbiirihsngrosUrfcsEja ;svyrhbsvyjomhsyqesmrobstqisvrshyq b
vybstrivjvnebsrtsuqocsfiqzbsynovbih,svrspyrusvybshvricsrtsvybsPyjvb
Pyqdbsyqesbzbovnqddcsarub.

Orisejespjdesinurihsrtsqddshrivhstqjdsvrsbxqmmbiqvb,sqoeshvjddsvybsurib
yriijtcsvybsvinbsyjhvrijbhsrtsvybhbsebqedcsboarnovbih.sTrisorvsrodcser
tqfndrnhsinurihsoqvniqddcsmirpsrnvsrtsvybszbicsfrecsrtsqddshnigijhjom
vbiijfdbsbzbovh,—qhsvybshujvvbosvibbsmjzbhsfjivysvrsjvhstnomj;sfnv,sjo
uqijvjubsdjtb,stqisuribsvyqosjosvyqvsrtsvbiiqstjiuq,spjdesinurih
qfrnoe,spybibzbisvybibsjhsqocsqeblnqvbsibqdjvcstrisvybusvrsadjomsvr.
Qoesqhsvybshbqshnigqhhbhsvybsdqoesjosvyjhsuqvvbi,shrsvybspyqdbstjhybic
hnigqhhbhsbzbicsrvybishrivsrtsuqijvjubsdjtb,sjosvybsproebitndobhhsqoe
tbqitndobhhsrtsvybsinurihspyjayshrubvjubhsajiandqvbsvybib.sTrisorvsrodc
qibspyqdbubosqhsqsfrecsnobxbugvstirusvyqvsjmoriqoabsqoe
hngbihvjvjrnhobhhsybibejvqicsvrsqddshqjdrih;sfnvsrtsqddshqjdrih,svybc
qibsfcsqddsreehsvybsurhvsejibavdcsfirnmyvsjovrsarovqavspjvyspyqvbzbisjh
qggqddjomdcsqhvrojhyjomsjosvybshbq;stqabsvrstqabsvybcsorvsrodcsbcbsjvh
mibqvbhvsuqizbdh,sfnv,syqoesvrskqp,smjzbsfqvvdbsvrsvybu.sQdrob,sjoshnay
iburvbhvspqvbih,svyqvsvyrnmyscrnshqjdbesqsvyrnhqoesujdbh,sqoesgqhhbesq
vyrnhqoeshyribh,scrnsprndesorvsarubsvrsqocsayjhbdbesybqivy-hvrob,sri
qnmyvsyrhgjvqfdbsfbobqvysvyqvsgqivsrtsvybshno;sjoshnaysdqvjvnebhsqoe
dromjvnebh,sgnihnjomsvrrshnaysqsaqddjomsqhsybserbh,svybspyqdbuqosjh
piqggbesfcsjotdnboabhsqddsvboejomsvrsuq bsyjhstqoacsgibmoqovspjvysuqoc
qsujmyvcsfjivy.

Orsproebi,svybo,svyqvsbzbismqvybijomszrdnubstirusvybsubibsviqohjvsrzbi
vybspjebhvspqvbicshgqabh,svybsrnvfdrposinurihsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsejesjo
vybsboesjoarigriqvbspjvysvybuhbdzbhsqddsuqoobisrtsurifjesyjovh,sqoe
yqdt-triubestœvqdshnmmbhvjrohsrtshngbioqvniqdsqmboajbh,spyjay
bzbovnqddcsjozbhvbesUrfcsEja spjvysobpsvbiirihsnofriirpbestirusqocvyjom
vyqvszjhjfdcsqggbqih.sHrsvyqvsjosuqocsaqhbhshnaysqsgqojasejesybstjoqddc
hvij b,svyqvstbpspyrsfcsvyrhbsinurih,sqvsdbqhv,syqesybqiesrtsvybsPyjvb
Pyqdb,stbpsrtsvyrhbsynovbihspbibspjddjomsvrsboarnovbisvybsgbijdhsrtsyjh
kqp.

Fnvsvybibspbibshvjddsrvybisqoesuribszjvqdsgiqavjaqdsjotdnboabhsqvspri .
OrvsbzbosqvsvybsgibhbovseqcsyqhsvybsrijmjoqdsgibhvjmbsrtsvybsHgbiu
Pyqdb,sqhstbqitnddcsejhvjomnjhybestirusqddsrvybishgbajbhsrtsvyb
dbzjqvyqo,sejbesrnvsrtsvybsujoehsrtsvybspyqdbubosqhsqsfrec.sVybibsqib
vyrhbsvyjhseqcsquromsvybu,spyr,svyrnmysjovbddjmbovsqoesarniqmbrnh
bornmysjosrttbijomsfqvvdbsvrsvybsMibbodqoesrisIjmyvspyqdb,sprnde
gbiyqgh—bjvybistirusgirtbhhjroqdsjobxgbijboab,srisjoarugbvboac,sri
vjujejvc,sebadjobsqsarovbhvspjvysvybsHgbiusPyqdb;sqvsqocsiqvb,svybib
qibsgdbovcsrtspyqdbubo,sbhgbajqddcsquromsvyrhbspyqdjomsoqvjrohsorv
hqjdjomsnoebisvybsQubijaqostdqm,spyrsyqzbsobzbisyrhvjdbdcsboarnovbibe
vybsHgbiusPyqdb,sfnvspyrhbshrdbs orpdbembsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqosjh
ibhvijavbesvrsvybsjmorfdbsurohvbisgijujvjzbdcsgnihnbesjosvybsOrivy;
hbqvbesrosvybjisyqvaybh,svybhbsubospjddsybqi bospjvysqsayjdejhy
tjibhjebsjovbibhvsqoesqpb,svrsvybspjde,shviqombsvqdbhsrtsHrnvybio
pyqdjom.sOrisjhsvybsgib-bujobovsvibuboernhobhhsrtsvybsmibqvsHgbiusPyqdb
qocpybibsuribstbbdjomdcsarugibyboebe,svyqosrosfrqiesrtsvyrhbsgirph
pyjayshvbusyju.

Qoesqhsjtsvybsorpsvbhvbesibqdjvcsrtsyjhsujmyvsyqesjostriubisdbmboeqic
vjubhsvyirposjvhshyqerpsfbtribsjv;spbstjoeshrubsfrr 
oqvniqdjhvh—RdqhhbosqoesGrzbdhro—ebadqijomsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsorvsrodcsvr
fbsqsarohvbioqvjrosvrsbzbicsrvybisaibqvnibsjosvybshbq,sfnvsqdhrsvrsfb
hrsjoaibejfdcstbirajrnhsqhsarovjonqddcsvrsfbsqvyjihvstrisynuqosfdrre.
OrisbzboserposvrshrsdqvbsqsvjubsqhsAnzjbi’h,spbibsvybhbsrisqdurhv
hjujdqisjugibhhjrohsbttqabe.sTrisjosyjhsOqvniqdsYjhvric,svybsFqiro
yjuhbdtsqttjiuhsvyqvsqvshjmyvsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,sqddstjhys(hyqi h
joadnebe)sqibs“hvina spjvysvybsurhvsdjzbdcsvbiirih,”sqoes“rtvbosjosvyb
gibajgjvqoacsrtsvybjistdjmyvseqhysvybuhbdzbhsqmqjohvsvybsira hspjvy
hnayszjrdboabsqhsvrsaqnhbsjohvqovqobrnhsebqvy.”sQoesyrpbzbisvybsmbobiqd
bxgbijboabhsjosvybstjhybicsuqcsquboeshnaysibgrivhsqhsvybhb;scbvsjo
vybjistnddsvbiijfdbobhh,sbzbosvrsvybsfdrrevyjihvcsjvbusrtsGrzbdhro,svyb
hngbihvjvjrnhsfbdjbtsjosvybusjh,sjoshrubszjajhhjvnebhsrtsvybji
zraqvjro,sibzjzbesjosvybsujoehsrtsvybsynovbih.

Hrsvyqvsrzbiqpbesfcsvybsinurihsqoesgrivbovhsaroabiojomsyju,sorvsqstbp
rtsvybstjhybiubosibaqddbe,sjosibtbiboabsvrsUrfcsEja ,svybsbqidjbiseqch
rtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbstjhybic,spybosjvspqhsrtvbovjubhsyqiesvrsjoenabsdrom
giqavjhbesIjmyvspyqdbubosvrsbufqi sjosvybsgbijdhsrtsvyjhsobpsqoeseqijom
pqitqib;shnaysubosgirvbhvjomsvyqvsqdvyrnmysrvybisdbzjqvyqohsujmyvsfb
yrgbtnddcsgnihnbe,scbvsvrsayqhbsqoesgrjovsdqoabsqvshnaysqosqggqijvjro
qhsvybsHgbiusPyqdbspqhsorvstrisurivqdsuqo.sVyqvsvrsqvvbugvsjv,sprndesfb
jobzjvqfdcsvrsfbsvriosjovrsqslnja sbvbiojvc.sRosvyjhsybqe,svybibsqib
hrubsibuqi qfdbseranubovhsvyqvsuqcsfbsarohndvbe.

Obzbivybdbhh,shrubsvybibspbib,spyrsbzbosjosvybstqabsrtsvybhbsvyjomh
pbibsibqecsvrsmjzbsayqhbsvrsUrfcsEja ;sqoesqshvjddsmibqvbisonufbispyr,
ayqoajomsrodcsvrsybqisrtsyjusejhvqovdcsqoeszqmnbdc,spjvyrnvsvyb
hgbajtjasebvqjdhsrtsqocsabivqjosaqdqujvc,sqoespjvyrnvshngbihvjvjrnh
qaarugqojubovh,spbibshnttjajbovdcsyqiecsorvsvrstdbbstirusvybsfqvvdbsjt
rttbibe.

Robsrtsvybspjdeshnmmbhvjrohsibtbiibesvr,sqhsqvsdqhvsarujomsvrsfbsdjo be
pjvysvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsjosvybsujoehsrtsvybshngbihvjvjrnhdcsjoadjobe,spqh
vybsnobqivydcsaroabjvsvyqvsUrfcsEja spqhsnfjlnjvrnh;svyqvsybsyqe
qavnqddcsfbbosboarnovbibesjosrggrhjvbsdqvjvnebhsqvsrobsqoesvybshqub
johvqovsrtsvjub.

Ori,saibendrnhsqhshnaysujoehsunhvsyqzbsfbbo,spqhsvyjhsaroabjv
qdvrmbvybispjvyrnvshrubstqjovshyrpsrtshngbihvjvjrnhsgirfqfjdjvc.sTrisqh
vybshbaibvhsrtsvybsaniibovhsjosvybshbqhsyqzbsobzbiscbvsfbbosejzndmbe,
bzbosvrsvybsurhvsbinejvbsibhbqiay;shrsvybsyjeebospqchsrtsvybsHgbiu
Pyqdbspybosfbobqvysvybshnitqabsibuqjo,sjosmibqvsgqiv,snoqaarnovqfdbsvr
yjhsgnihnbih;sqoestirusvjubsvrsvjubsyqzbsrijmjoqvbesvybsurhvsanijrnh
qoesaroviqejavricshgbandqvjrohsibmqiejomsvybu,sbhgbajqddcsaroabiojom
vybsuchvjasurebhspybibfc,sqtvbishrnoejomsvrsqsmibqvsebgvy,syb
viqohgrivhsyjuhbdtspjvyshnayszqhvshpjtvobhhsvrsvybsurhvspjebdcsejhvqov
grjovh.

Jvsjhsqsvyjomspbdds orposvrsfrvysQubijaqosqoesBomdjhyspyqdb-hyjgh,sqoe
qhspbddsqsvyjomsgdqabesngrosqnvyrijvqvjzbsibariescbqihsqmrsfcsHaribhfc,
vyqvshrubspyqdbhsyqzbsfbbosaqgvnibestqisorivysjosvybsGqajtja,sjospyrhb
frejbhsyqzbsfbbostrnoesvybsfqifhsrtsyqigrrohseqivbesjosvybsMibbodqoe
hbqh.sOrisjhsjvsvrsfbsmqjohqje,svyqvsjoshrubsrtsvybhbsjohvqoabhsjvsyqh
fbbosebadqibesvyqvsvybsjovbizqdsrtsvjubsfbvpbbosvybsvprsqhhqndvhsarnde
orvsyqzbsbxabbebeszbicsuqocseqch.sYboab,sfcsjotbiboab,sjvsyqhsfbbo
fbdjbzbesfcshrubspyqdbubo,svyqvsvybsOri’sPbhvsGqhhqmb,shrsdromsq
girfdbusvrsuqo,spqhsobzbisqsgirfdbusvrsvybspyqdb.sHrsvyqvsybib,sjosvyb
ibqdsdjzjomsbxgbijboabsrtsdjzjomsubo,svybsgirejmjbhsibdqvbesjosrde
vjubhsrtsvybsjodqoesHvibddrsurnovqjosjosGrivnmqds(obqispyrhbsvrgsvybib
pqhshqjesvrsfbsqsdq bsjospyjaysvybspiba hsrtshyjghstdrqvbesngsvrsvyb
hnitqab);sqoesvyqvshvjddsuribsproebitndshvricsrtsvybsQibvynhqstrnovqjo
obqisHciqanhbs(pyrhbspqvbihspbibsfbdjbzbesvrsyqzbsarubstirusvybsYrdc
Dqoesfcsqosnoebimirnoesgqhhqmb);svybhbstqfndrnhsoqiiqvjrohsqibsqdurhv
tnddcsblnqddbesfcsvybsibqdjvjbhsrtsvybspyqdbubo.

Triabesjovrstqujdjqijvc,svybo,spjvyshnaysgirejmjbhsqhsvybhb;sqoe
 orpjomsvyqvsqtvbisibgbqvbe,sjovibgjesqhhqndvh,svybsPyjvbsPyqdbsyqe
bhaqgbesqdjzb;sjvsaqoorvsfbsunaysuqvvbisrtshnigijhbsvyqvshrubspyqdbubo
hyrndesmrshvjddstnivybisjosvybjishngbihvjvjroh;sebadqijomsUrfcsEja sorv
rodcsnfjlnjvrnh,sfnvsjuurivqds(trisjuurivqdjvcsjhsfnvsnfjlnjvcsjo
vjub);svyqvsvyrnmysmirzbhsrtshgbqihshyrndesfbsgdqovbesjosyjhstdqo h,syb
prndeshvjddshpjusqpqcsnoyqiube;srisjtsjoebbesybshyrndesbzbisfbsuqebsvr
hgrnvsvyja sfdrre,shnaysqshjmyvsprndesfbsfnvsqsmyqhvdcsebabgvjro;stri
qmqjosjosnobohqomnjobesfjddrphsynoeibehsrtsdbqmnbhsqpqc,syjhsnohnddjbe
kbvsprndesroabsuribsfbshbbo.

Fnvsbzboshvijggbesrtsvybhbshngbioqvniqdshniujhjomh,svybibspqhsbornmysjo
vybsbqivydcsuq bsqoesjoarovbhvqfdbsayqiqavbisrtsvybsurohvbisvrshvij b
vybsjuqmjoqvjrospjvysnoprovbesgrpbi.sTri,sjvspqhsorvshrsunaysyjh
noaruurosfnd svyqvshrsunaysejhvjomnjhybesyjustirusrvybishgbiuspyqdbh,
fnv,sqhspqhsbdhbpybibsvyirposrnv—qsgbandjqishorp-pyjvbspijo dbe
tribybqe,sqoesqsyjmy,sgciqujejaqdspyjvbsynug.sVybhbspbibsyjhsgirujobov
tbqvnibh;svybsvr bohspybibfc,sbzbosjosvybsdjujvdbhh,snoayqivbeshbqh,syb
ibzbqdbesyjhsjebovjvc,sqvsqsdromsejhvqoab,svrsvyrhbspyrs obpsyju.

Vybsibhvsrtsyjhsfrecspqhshrshvibq be,sqoeshgrvvbe,sqoesuqifdbespjvysvyb
hqubshyirnebesynb,svyqv,sjosvybsboe,sybsyqesmqjobesyjhsejhvjoavjzb
qggbddqvjrosrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb;sqsoqub,sjoebbe,sdjvbiqddcsknhvjtjbesfc
yjhszjzjesqhgbav,spyboshbbosmdjejomsqvsyjmysorrosvyirnmysqseqi sfdnb
hbq,sdbqzjomsqsujd c-pqcspq bsrtsaibqucstrqu,sqddshgqomdbespjvysmrdebo
mdbqujomh.

Orispqhsjvsyjhsnoprovbesuqmojvneb,sorisyjhsibuqi qfdbsynb,soriscbvsyjh
ebtriubesdrpbiskqp,svyqvshrsunaysjozbhvbesvybspyqdbspjvysoqvniqd
vbiiri,sqhsvyqvsnobxqugdbe,sjovbddjmbovsuqdjmojvcspyjay,sqaariejomsvr
hgbajtjasqaarnovh,sybsyqesrzbisqoesrzbisqmqjosbzjoabesjosyjhsqhhqndvh.
Uribsvyqosqdd,syjhsvibqaybirnhsibvibqvhshvina suribsrtsejhuqcsvyqo
gbiyqghsqnmyvsbdhb.sTri,spyboshpjuujomsfbtribsyjhsbxndvjomsgnihnbih,
pjvysbzbicsqggqibovshcugvrusrtsqdqiu,sybsyqeshbzbiqdsvjubhsfbbos orpo
vrsvniosirnoeshneebodc,sqoe,sfbqijomserposngrosvybu,sbjvybishvqzbsvybji
frqvhsvrshgdjovbih,sriseijzbsvybusfqa sjosarohvbioqvjrosvrsvybjishyjg.

Qdibqecshbzbiqdstqvqdjvjbhsyqesqvvboebesyjhsayqhb.sFnvsvyrnmyshjujdqi
ejhqhvbih,syrpbzbisdjvvdbsfinjvbesqhyrib,spbibsfcsorsubqohsnonhnqdsjo
vybstjhybic;scbv,sjosurhvsjohvqoabh,shnayshbbubesvybsPyjvbsPyqdb’h
jotbioqdsqtribvyrnmyvsrtstbirajvc,svyqvsbzbicsejhubufbijomsrisebqvy
vyqvsybsaqnhbe,spqhsorvspyrddcsibmqiebesqhsyqzjomsfbbosjotdjavbesfcsqo
nojovbddjmbovsqmbov.

Knemb,svybo,svrspyqvsgjvaybhsrtsjotdqube,sejhviqavbestnicsvybsujoehsrt
yjhsuribsebhgbiqvbsynovbihspbibsjugbddbe,spybosqujesvybsayjghsrtsaybpbe
frqvh,sqoesvybshjo jomsdjufhsrtsvriosaruiqebh,svybcshpqusrnvsrtsvyb
pyjvbsaniehsrtsvybspyqdb’hsejibtndspiqvysjovrsvybshbibob,sbxqhgbiqvjom
hnodjmyv,svyqvshujdbesro,sqhsjtsqvsqsfjivysrisqsfijeqd.

Yjhsvyibbsfrqvhshvrzbsqirnoesyju,sqoesrqihsqoesubosfrvyspyjidjomsjosvyb
beejbh;srobsaqgvqjo,shbjwjomsvybsdjob- ojtbstirusyjhsfir bosgirp,syqe
eqhybesqvsvybspyqdb,sqhsqosQi qohqhsenbddjhvsqvsyjhstrb,sfdjoedc
hbb jomspjvysqshjxsjoaysfdqebsvrsibqaysvybstqvyru-ebbgsdjtbsrtsvyb
pyqdb.sVyqvsaqgvqjospqhsQyqf.sQoesvybosjvspqh,svyqvshneebodcshpbbgjom
yjhshja db-hyqgbesdrpbiskqpsfbobqvysyju,sUrfcsEja syqesibqgbesqpqc
Qyqf’hsdbm,sqhsqsurpbisqsfdqebsrtsmiqhhsjosvybstjbde.sOrsvnifqobesVni ,
orsyjibesZbobvjqosrisUqdqc,sarndesyqzbshurvbsyjuspjvysuribshbbujom
uqdjab.sHuqddsibqhrospqhsvybibsvrsernfv,svybo,svyqvsbzbishjoabsvyqv
qdurhvstqvqdsboarnovbi,sQyqfsyqesaybijhybesqspjdeszjoejavjzbobhh
qmqjohvsvybspyqdb,sqddsvybsuribstbddstrisvyqvsjosyjhstiqovjasurifjeobhh
ybsqvsdqhvsaqubsvrsjebovjtcspjvysyju,sorvsrodcsqddsyjhsfrejdcsprbh,sfnv
qddsyjhsjovbddbavnqdsqoeshgjijvnqdsbxqhgbiqvjroh.sVybsPyjvbsPyqdbshpqu
fbtribsyjusqhsvybsuroruqojqasjoaqioqvjrosrtsqddsvyrhbsuqdjajrnh
qmboajbhspyjayshrubsebbgsubostbbdsbqvjomsjosvybu,svjddsvybcsqibsdbtv
djzjomsrospjvysyqdtsqsybqivsqoesyqdtsqsdnom.sVyqvsjovqomjfdbsuqdjmojvc
pyjaysyqhsfbbostirusvybsfbmjoojom;svrspyrhbserujojrosbzbosvybsurebio
Ayijhvjqohsqhaijfbsrob-yqdtsrtsvybsprideh;spyjaysvybsqoajbovsRgyjvbhsrt
vybsbqhvsibzbiboabesjosvybjishvqvnbsebzjd;—Qyqfsejesorvstqddserposqoe
prihyjgsjvsdj bsvybu;sfnvsebdjijrnhdcsviqohtbiijomsjvhsjebqsvrsvyb
qfyriibespyjvbspyqdb,sybsgjvvbesyjuhbdt,sqddsunvjdqvbe,sqmqjohvsjv.sQdd
vyqvsurhvsuqeebohsqoesvriubovh;sqddsvyqvshvjihsngsvybsdbbhsrtsvyjomh;
qddsvinvyspjvysuqdjabsjosjv;sqddsvyqvsaiqa hsvybshjobphsqoesaq bhsvyb
fiqjo;sqddsvybshnfvdbseburojhuhsrtsdjtbsqoesvyrnmyv;sqddsbzjd,svrsaiqwc
Qyqf,spbibszjhjfdcsgbihrojtjbe,sqoesuqebsgiqavjaqddcsqhhqjdqfdbsjosUrfc
Eja .sYbsgjdbesngrosvybspyqdb’hspyjvbsynugsvybshnusrtsqddsvybsmbobiqd
iqmbsqoesyqvbstbdvsfcsyjhspyrdbsiqabstirusQequserpo;sqoesvybo,sqhsjt
yjhsaybhvsyqesfbbosqsurivqi,sybsfnihvsyjhsyrvsybqiv’hshybddsngrosjv.

Jvsjhsorvsgirfqfdbsvyqvsvyjhsuroruqojqsjosyjusvrr sjvhsjohvqovsijhbsqv
vybsgibajhbsvjubsrtsyjhsfrejdcsejhubufbiubov.sVybo,sjoseqivjomsqvsvyb
urohvbi,s ojtbsjosyqoe,sybsyqesfnvsmjzbosdrrhbsvrsqshneebo,sgqhhjroqvb,
arigriqdsqojurhjvc;sqoespybosybsibabjzbesvybshvir bsvyqvsvribsyju,syb
girfqfdcsfnvstbdvsvybsqmrojwjomsfrejdcsdqabiqvjro,sfnvsorvyjomsurib.
Cbv,spybosfcsvyjhsarddjhjrostriabesvrsvniosvrpqiehsyrub,sqoestrisdrom
urovyhsrtseqchsqoespbb h,sQyqfsqoesqomnjhysdqcshvibvaybesvrmbvybisjo
robsyquura ,sirnoejomsjosujespjovbisvyqvseibqic,syrpdjomsGqvqmrojqo
Aqgb;svybosjvspqh,svyqvsyjhsvriosfrecsqoesmqhybeshrndsfdbesjovrsrob
qorvybi;sqoeshrsjovbitnhjom,suqebsyjusuqe.sVyqvsjvspqhsrodcsvybo,sro
vybsyrubpqieszrcqmb,sqtvbisvybsboarnovbi,svyqvsvybstjoqdsuroruqojq
hbjwbesyju,shbbuhsqddsfnvsabivqjostirusvybstqavsvyqv,sqvsjovbizqdh
enijomsvybsgqhhqmb,sybspqhsqsiqzjomsdnoqvja;sqoe,svyrnmysnodjufbesrtsq
dbm,scbvshnayszjvqdshvibomvyscbvsdni besjosyjhsBmcgvjqosaybhv,sqoespqh
uribrzbisjovbohjtjbesfcsyjhsebdjijnu,svyqvsyjhsuqvbhspbibstriabesvr
dqabsyjustqhv,sbzbosvybib,sqhsybshqjdbe,siqzjomsjosyjhsyquura .sJosq
hviqjv-kqa bv,sybshpnomsvrsvybsuqesira jomhsrtsvybsmqdbh.sQoe,spybo
inoojomsjovrsuribshnttbiqfdbsdqvjvnebh,svybshyjg,spjvysujdeshvno’hqjdh
hgibqe,stdrqvbesqairhhsvybsviqolnjdsvirgjah,sqoe,svrsqddsqggbqiqoabh,
vybsrdesuqo’hsebdjijnushbbubesdbtvsfbyjoesyjuspjvysvybsAqgbsYrio
hpbddh,sqoesybsaqubstrivystirusyjhseqi sebosjovrsvybsfdbhhbesdjmyvsqoe
qji;sbzbosvybo,spybosybsfribsvyqvstjiu,sarddbavbestirov,syrpbzbisgqdb,
qoesjhhnbesyjhsaqdusriebihsroabsqmqjo;sqoesyjhsuqvbhsvyqo besMresvyb
ejibtndsuqeobhhspqhsorpsmrob;sbzbosvybo,sQyqf,sjosyjhsyjeeboshbdt,
iqzbesro.sYnuqosuqeobhhsjhsrtvbovjubhsqsanoojomsqoesurhvstbdjobsvyjom.
Pyboscrnsvyjo sjvstdbe,sjvsuqcsyqzbsfnvsfbarubsviqohtjmnibesjovrshrub
hvjddshnfvdbistriu.sQyqf’hstnddsdnoqacshnfhjebesorv,sfnvsebbgbojomdc
aroviqavbe;sdj bsvybsnoqfqvbesYnehro,spybosvyqvsorfdbsOrivyuqostdrph
oqiirpdc,sfnvsnotqvyruqfdcsvyirnmysvybsYjmydqoesmrimb.sFnv,sqhsjosyjh
oqiirp-tdrpjomsuroruqojq,sorvsrobskrvsrtsQyqf’hsfirqesuqeobhhsyqesfbbo
dbtvsfbyjoe;shrsjosvyqvsfirqesuqeobhh,sorvsrobskrvsrtsyjhsmibqvsoqvniqd
jovbddbavsyqesgbijhybe.sVyqvsfbtribsdjzjomsqmbov,sorpsfbaqubsvybsdjzjom
johvinubov.sJtshnaysqstnijrnhsvirgbsuqcshvqoe,syjhshgbajqdsdnoqac
hvriubesyjhsmbobiqdshqojvc,sqoesaqiijbesjv,sqoesvniobesqddsjvh
aroabovibesaqoorosngrosjvhsrposuqesuqi ;shrsvyqvstqistirusyqzjomsdrhv
yjhshvibomvy,sQyqf,svrsvyqvsrobsboe,sejesorpsgrhhbhhsqsvyrnhqoestrde
uribsgrvboacsvyqosbzbisybsyqeshqobdcsfirnmyvsvrsfbqisngrosqocsrob
ibqhroqfdbsrfkbav.

Vyjhsjhsunay;scbvsQyqf’hsdqimbi,seqi bi,sebbgbisgqivsibuqjohsnoyjovbe.
Fnvszqjosvrsgrgndqijwbsgirtnoejvjbh,sqoesqddsvinvysjhsgirtrnoe.sPjoejom
tqiserpostiruspjvyjosvybszbicsybqivsrtsvyjhshgj besYrvbdsebsAdnocspybib
pbsybibshvqoe—yrpbzbismiqoesqoesproebitnd,sorpslnjvsjv;—qoesvq bscrni
pqc,scbsorfdbi,shqeebishrndh,svrsvyrhbszqhvsIruqosyqddhsrtsVybiubh;
pybibstqisfbobqvysvybstqovqhvjasvrpbihsrtsuqo’hsnggbisbqivy,syjhsirrv
rtsmiqoebni,syjhspyrdbsqptndsbhhboabshjvhsjosfbqiebeshvqvb;sqosqovjlnb
fnijbesfbobqvysqovjlnjvjbh,sqoesvyirobesrosvrihrbh!sHrspjvysqsfir bo
vyirob,svybsmibqvsmrehsura svyqvsaqgvjzbs jom;shrsdj bsqsAqicqvje,syb
gqvjbovshjvh,sngyrdejomsrosyjhstirwbosfirpsvybsgjdbesbovqfdqvnibhsrt
qmbh.sPjoescbserposvybib,scbsgirnebi,shqeebishrndh!slnbhvjrosvyqv
girne,shqes jom!sQstqujdcsdj bobhh!sqcb,sybsejesfbmbvscb,scbscrnom
bxjdbesircqdvjbh;sqoestiruscrnismijushjibsrodcspjddsvybsrde
Hvqvb-hbaibvsarub.

Orp,sjosyjhsybqiv,sQyqfsyqeshrubsmdjughbsrtsvyjh,soqubdc:sqddsucsubqoh
qibshqob,sucsurvjzbsqoesucsrfkbavsuqe.sCbvspjvyrnvsgrpbisvrs jdd,sri
ayqomb,srishynosvybstqav;sybsdj bpjhbs obpsvyqvsvrsuqo joesybsejesdrom
ejhhbufdb;sjoshrubshriv,sejeshvjdd.sFnvsvyqvsvyjomsrtsyjhsejhhbufdjom
pqhsrodcshnfkbavsvrsyjhsgbiabgvjfjdjvc,sorvsvrsyjhspjddsebvbiujoqvb.
Obzbivybdbhh,shrspbddsejesybshnaabbesjosvyqvsejhhbufdjom,svyqvspybo
pjvysjzricsdbmsybshvbggbesqhyribsqvsdqhv,sorsOqovna bvbisvyrnmyvsyju
rvybipjhbsvyqosfnvsoqvniqddcsmijbzbe,sqoesvyqvsvrsvybslnja ,spjvysvyb
vbiijfdbsaqhnqdvcspyjaysyqesrzbivq bosyju.

Vybsibgrivsrtsyjhsnoebojqfdbsebdjijnusqvshbqspqhsdj bpjhbsgrgndqidc
qhaijfbesvrsqs joeibesaqnhb.sQoeshrsvrr,sqddsvybsqeebesurrejobhhspyjay
qdpqchsqtvbipqieh,svrsvybszbicseqcsrtshqjdjomsjosvybsGblnresrosvyb
gibhbovszrcqmb,shqvsfirrejomsrosyjhsfirp.sOrisjhsjvshrszbicsnodj bdc,
vyqvstqistirusejhvinhvjomsyjhstjvobhhstrisqorvybispyqdjomszrcqmb,sro
qaarnovsrtshnayseqi shcugvruh,svybsaqdandqvjomsgbrgdbsrtsvyqvsginebov
jhdbspbibsjoadjobesvrsyqifrisvybsaroabjv,svyqvstrisvyrhbszbicsibqhroh
ybspqhsqddsvybsfbvvbislnqdjtjbesqoeshbvsrosbemb,strisqsgnihnjvshrstndd
rtsiqmbsqoespjdeobhhsqhsvybsfdrrecsynovsrtspyqdbh.sMoqpbespjvyjosqoe
hariaybespjvyrnv,spjvysvybsjotjxbe,snoibdbovjomstqomhsrtshrubsjoaniqfdb
jebq;shnaysqosrob,sarndesybsfbstrnoe,sprndeshbbusvybszbicsuqosvrseqiv
yjhsjirosqoesdjtvsyjhsdqoabsqmqjohvsvybsurhvsqggqddjomsrtsqddsfinvbh.
Ri,sjtstrisqocsibqhrosvyrnmyvsvrsfbsarigribqddcsjoaqgqajvqvbestrisvyqv,
cbvshnaysqosrobsprndeshbbushngbidqvjzbdcsarugbvbovsvrsaybbisqoesyrpdsro
yjhsnoebidjomhsvrsvybsqvvqa .sFnvsfbsqddsvyjhsqhsjvsuqc,sabivqjosjvsjh,
vyqvspjvysvybsuqeshbaibvsrtsyjhsnoqfqvbesiqmbsfrdvbesngsqoes bcbesjo
yju,sQyqfsyqesgnigrhbdcshqjdbesngrosvybsgibhbovszrcqmbspjvysvybsrob
rodcsqoesqdd-bomirhhjomsrfkbavsrtsynovjomsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb.sYqesqocsrob
rtsyjhsrdesqalnqjovqoabhsroshyribsfnvsyqdtseibqubesrtspyqvspqhsdni jom
josyjusvybo,syrpshrrosprndesvybjisqmyqhvsqoesijmyvbrnhshrndhsyqzb
piboaybesvybshyjgstirushnaysqstjboejhysuqo!sVybcspbibsfbovsro
girtjvqfdbsainjhbh,svybsgirtjvsvrsfbsarnovbeserposjoserddqihstirusvyb
ujov.sYbspqhsjovbovsrosqosqneqajrnh,sjuujvjmqfdb,sqoeshngbioqvniqd
ibzbomb.

Ybib,svybo,spqhsvyjhsmibc-ybqebe,snomredcsrdesuqo,sayqhjomspjvysanihbh
qsKrf’hspyqdbsirnoesvybspride,sqvsvybsybqesrtsqsaibp,svrr,sayjbtdcsuqeb
ngsrtsuromibdsibobmqebh,sqoesaqhvqpqch,sqoesaqoojfqdh—uriqddcsbotbbfdbe
qdhr,sfcsvybsjoarugbvboabsrtsubibsnoqjebeszjivnbsrisijmyv-ujoebeobhhsjo
Hvqifna ,svybsjozndobiqfdbskrddjvcsrtsjoejttbiboabsqoesiba dbhhobhhsjo
Hvnff,sqoesvybsgbizqejomsubejraijvcsjosTdqh .sHnaysqsaibp,shr
rttjabibe,shbbubeshgbajqddcsgja besqoesgqa besfcshrubsjotbioqdstqvqdjvc
vrsybdgsyjusvrsyjhsuroruqojqasibzbomb.sYrpsjvspqhsvyqvsvybcshr
qfrnoejomdcsibhgroebesvrsvybsrdesuqo’hsjib—fcspyqvsbzjdsuqmjasvybji
hrndhspbibsgrhhbhhbe,svyqvsqvsvjubhsyjhsyqvbshbbubesqdurhvsvybjih;svyb
PyjvbsPyqdbsqhsunaysvybjisjohnttbiqfdbstrbsqhsyjh;syrpsqddsvyjhsaqubsvr
fb—pyqvsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbspqhsvrsvybu,srisyrpsvrsvybjisnoarohajrnh
noebihvqoejomh,sqdhr,sjoshrubseju,snohnhgbavbespqc,sybsujmyvsyqzb
hbbubesvybsmdjejomsmibqvseburosrtsvybshbqhsrtsdjtb,—qddsvyjhsvr
bxgdqjo,sprndesfbsvrsejzbsebbgbisvyqosJhyuqbdsaqosmr.sVybshnfvbiiqobqo
ujobisvyqvspri hsjosnhsqdd,syrpsaqosrobsvbddspyjvybisdbqehsyjhshyqtvsfc
vybsbzbishyjtvjom,sunttdbeshrnoesrtsyjhsgja ?sPyrserbhsorvstbbdsvyb
jiibhjhvjfdbsqiuseiqm?sPyqvsh jttsjosvrpsrtsqshbzbovc-trnisaqoshvqoe
hvjdd?sTrisrob,sJsmqzbsuchbdtsngsvrsvybsqfqoeroubovsrtsvybsvjubsqoesvyb
gdqab;sfnvspyjdbscbvsqddsq-inhysvrsboarnovbisvybspyqdb,sarndeshbb
oqnmyvsjosvyqvsfinvbsfnvsvybsebqedjbhvsjdd.


AYQGVBIs42.sVybsPyjvbobhhsrtsvybsPyqdb.

PyqvsvybspyjvbspyqdbspqhsvrsQyqf,syqhsfbbosyjovbe;spyqv,sqvsvjubh,syb
pqhsvrsub,sqhscbvsibuqjohsnohqje.

QhjebstirusvyrhbsuribsrfzjrnhsarohjebiqvjrohsvrnayjomsUrfcsEja ,spyjay
arndesorvsfnvsraaqhjroqddcsqpq bosjosqocsuqo’hshrndshrubsqdqiu,svybib
pqhsqorvybisvyrnmyv,srisiqvybiszqmnb,soqubdbhhsyriirisaroabiojomsyju,
pyjaysqvsvjubhsfcsjvhsjovbohjvcsarugdbvbdcsrzbigrpbibesqddsvybsibhv;
qoescbvshrsuchvjaqdsqoespbddsojmysjobttqfdbspqhsjv,svyqvsJsqdurhv
ebhgqjisrtsgnvvjomsjvsjosqsarugibybohjfdbstriu.sJvspqhsvybspyjvbobhhsrt
vybspyqdbsvyqvsqfrzbsqddsvyjomhsqggqddbesub.sFnvsyrpsaqosJsyrgbsvr
bxgdqjosuchbdtsybib;sqoescbv,sjoshrubseju,siqoeruspqc,sbxgdqjosuchbdtsJ
unhv,sbdhbsqddsvybhbsayqgvbihsujmyvsfbsoqnmyv.

Vyrnmysjosuqocsoqvniqdsrfkbavh,spyjvbobhhsibtjojomdcsboyqoabhsfbqnvc,
qhsjtsjugqivjomshrubshgbajqdszjivnbsrtsjvhsrpo,sqhsjosuqifdbh,
kqgrojaqh,sqoesgbqidh;sqoesvyrnmyszqijrnhsoqvjrohsyqzbsjoshrubspqc
ibarmojhbesqsabivqjosircqdsgibbujoboabsjosvyjhsynb;sbzbosvybsfqifqija,
miqoesrdes jomhsrtsGbmnsgdqajomsvybsvjvdbs“DriesrtsvybsPyjvbsBdbgyqovh”
qfrzbsqddsvybjisrvybisuqmojdrlnbovsqhaijgvjrohsrtserujojro;sqoesvyb
urebios jomhsrtsHjqusnotnidjomsvybshqubshorp-pyjvbslnqeingbesjosvyb
ircqdshvqoeqie;sqoesvybsYqorzbijqostdqmsfbqijomsvybsrobstjmnibsrtsq
horp-pyjvbsayqimbi;sqoesvybsmibqvsQnhvijqosBugjib,sAæhqijqo,sybjisvr
rzbidriejomsIrub,syqzjomstrisvybsjugbijqdsardrnisvybshqubsjugbijqdsynb;
qoesvyrnmysvyjhsgib-bujoboabsjosjvsqggdjbhsvrsvybsynuqosiqabsjvhbdt,
mjzjomsvybspyjvbsuqosjebqdsuqhvbihyjgsrzbisbzbicsenh csvijfb;sqoe
vyrnmy,sfbhjebh,sqddsvyjh,spyjvbobhhsyqhsfbbosbzbosuqebshjmojtjaqovsrt
mdqeobhh,strisquromsvybsIruqohsqspyjvbshvrobsuqi besqskrctndseqc;sqoe
vyrnmysjosrvybisurivqdshcugqvyjbhsqoeshcufrdjwjomh,svyjhshqubsynbsjh
uqebsvybsbufdbusrtsuqocsvrnayjom,sorfdbsvyjomh—vybsjooraboabsrtsfijebh,
vybsfbojmojvcsrtsqmb;svyrnmysquromsvybsIbesUbosrtsQubijaqsvybsmjzjomsrt
vybspyjvbsfbdvsrtspqugnuspqhsvybsebbgbhvsgdbembsrtsyrori;svyrnmysjo
uqocsadjubh,spyjvbobhhsvcgjtjbhsvybsuqkbhvcsrtsKnhvjabsjosvybsbiujobsrt
vybsKnemb,sqoesarovijfnvbhsvrsvybseqjdcshvqvbsrts jomhsqoeslnbbohseiqpo
fcsujd -pyjvbshvbbeh;svyrnmysbzbosjosvybsyjmybisuchvbijbhsrtsvybsurhv
qnmnhvsibdjmjrohsjvsyqhsfbbosuqebsvybshcufrdsrtsvybsejzjobshgrvdbhhobhh
qoesgrpbi;sfcsvybsGbihjqostjibsprihyjggbih,svybspyjvbstri bestdqub
fbjomsybdesvybsyrdjbhvsrosvybsqdvqi;sqoesjosvybsMibb sucvyrdrmjbh,
MibqvsKrzbsyjuhbdtsfbjomsuqebsjoaqioqvbsjosqshorp-pyjvbsfndd;sqoe
vyrnmysvrsvybsorfdbsJirlnrjh,svybsujepjovbishqaijtjabsrtsvybshqaibe
PyjvbsErmspqhsfcstqisvybsyrdjbhvstbhvjzqdsrtsvybjisvybrdrmc,svyqv
hgrvdbhh,stqjvytndsaibqvnibsfbjomsybdesvybsgnibhvsbozrcsvybcsarndeshboe
vrsvybsMibqvsHgjijvspjvysvybsqoonqdsvjejomhsrtsvybjisrpostjebdjvc;sqoe
vyrnmysejibavdcstirusvybsDqvjospriestrispyjvb,sqddsAyijhvjqosgijbhvh
ebijzbsvybsoqubsrtsrobsgqivsrtsvybjishqaibeszbhvnib,svybsqdfsrisvnoja,
priosfbobqvysvybsaqhhra ;sqoesvyrnmysquromsvybsyrdcsgrughsrtsvybsIrujhy
tqjvy,spyjvbsjhshgbajqddcsbugdrcbesjosvybsabdbfiqvjrosrtsvybsGqhhjrosrt
rnisDrie;svyrnmysjosvybsZjhjrosrtsHv.sKryo,spyjvbsirfbhsqibsmjzbosvr
vybsibebbube,sqoesvybstrni-qoe-vpbovcsbdebihshvqoesadrvybesjospyjvb
fbtribsvybsmibqvspyjvbsvyirob,sqoesvybsYrdcsRobsvyqvshjvvbvysvybib
pyjvbsdj bsprrd;scbvstrisqddsvybhbsqaanundqvbesqhhrajqvjroh,spjvy
pyqvbzbisjhshpbbv,sqoesyroriqfdb,sqoeshnfdjub,svybibscbvsdni hsqo
bdnhjzbshrubvyjomsjosvybsjoobiurhvsjebqsrtsvyjhsynb,spyjayshvij bhsurib
rtsgqojasvrsvybshrndsvyqosvyqvsibeobhhspyjaysqttijmyvhsjosfdrre.

Vyjhsbdnhjzbslnqdjvcsjvsjh,spyjaysaqnhbhsvybsvyrnmyvsrtspyjvbobhh,spybo
ejzriabestirusuribs joedcsqhhrajqvjroh,sqoesarngdbespjvysqocsrfkbav
vbiijfdbsjosjvhbdt,svrsybjmyvbosvyqvsvbiirisvrsvybstnivybhvsfrnoeh.
Pjvobhhsvybspyjvbsfbqisrtsvybsgrdbh,sqoesvybspyjvbshyqi srtsvyb
virgjah;spyqvsfnvsvybjishurrvy,stdq cspyjvbobhhsuq bhsvybusvyb
viqohaboebovsyriirihsvybcsqib?sVyqvsmyqhvdcspyjvbobhhsjvsjhspyjay
jugqivhshnaysqosqfyriibovsujdeobhh,sbzbosuribsdrqvyhrubsvyqosvbiijtja,
vrsvybsenufsmdrqvjomsrtsvybjisqhgbav.sHrsvyqvsorvsvybstjbiab-tqombe
vjmbisjosyjhsybiqdejasarqvsaqoshrshvqmmbisarniqmbsqhsvybspyjvb-hyirnebe
fbqisrishyqi .*

*PjvysibtbiboabsvrsvybsGrdqisfbqi,sjvsuqcsgrhhjfdcsfbsnimbesfcsyjuspyr
prndestqjosmrshvjddsebbgbisjovrsvyjhsuqvvbi,svyqvsjvsjhsorvsvyb
pyjvbobhh,shbgqiqvbdcsibmqiebe,spyjaysybjmyvbohsvybsjovrdbiqfdb
yjebrnhobhhsrtsvyqvsfinvb;stri,sqoqdchbe,svyqvsybjmyvbobesyjebrnhobhh,
jvsujmyvsfbshqje,srodcsijhbhstirusvybsajianuhvqoab,svyqvsvyb
jiibhgrohjfdbstbirajrnhobhhsrtsvybsaibqvnibshvqoehsjozbhvbesjosvyb
tdbbabsrtsabdbhvjqdsjooraboabsqoesdrzb;sqoesyboab,sfcsfijomjomsvrmbvybi
vprshnaysrggrhjvbsburvjrohsjosrnisujoeh,svybsGrdqisfbqistijmyvbohsnh
pjvyshrsnooqvniqdsqsaroviqhv.sFnvsbzbosqhhnujomsqddsvyjhsvrsfbsvinb;
cbv,spbibsjvsorvstrisvybspyjvbobhh,scrnsprndesorvsyqzbsvyqvsjovbohjtjbe
vbiiri.

Qhstrisvybspyjvbshyqi ,svybspyjvbsmdjejomsmyrhvdjobhhsrtsibgrhbsjosvyqv
aibqvnib,spybosfbybdesjosyjhsriejoqicsurreh,shviqombdcsvqddjbhspjvysvyb
hqubslnqdjvcsjosvybsGrdqislnqeingbe.sVyjhsgbandjqijvcsjhsurhvszjzjedc
yjvsfcsvybsTiboaysjosvybsoqubsvybcsfbhvrpsngrosvyqvstjhy.sVybsIrujhy
uqhhstrisvybsebqesfbmjohspjvys“Iblnjbusbvbioqu”s(bvbioqdsibhv),spyboab
_Iblnjbu_seborujoqvjomsvybsuqhhsjvhbdt,sqoesqocsrvybistnobiqdsunhja.
Orp,sjosqddnhjrosvrsvybspyjvb,shjdbovshvjddobhhsrtsebqvysjosvyjhshyqi ,
qoesvybsujdesebqedjobhhsrtsyjhsyqfjvh,svybsTiboaysaqddsyjus_Iblnjo_.

Fbvyjo svybbsrtsvybsqdfqvirhh,spyboabsarubsvyrhbsadrnehsrtshgjijvnqd
proebiubovsqoesgqdbseibqe,sjospyjaysvyqvspyjvbsgyqovrushqjdhsjosqdd
juqmjoqvjroh?sOrvsArdbijembstjihvsvyibpsvyqvshgbdd;sfnvsMre’hsmibqv,
notdqvvbijomsdqnibqvb,sOqvnib.*

*JsibubufbisvybstjihvsqdfqvirhhsJsbzbishqp.sJvspqhsenijomsqsgirdrombe
mqdb,sjospqvbihsyqiesngrosvybsQovqiavjashbqh.sTirusucstriborrospqvay
fbdrp,sJsqhaboebesvrsvybsrzbiadrnebeseba ;sqoesvybib,seqhybesngrosvyb
uqjosyqvaybh,sJshqpsqsibmqd,stbqvybicsvyjomsrtsnohgrvvbespyjvbobhh,sqoe
pjvysqsyrr be,sIruqosfjddshnfdjub.sQvsjovbizqdh,sjvsqiaybestrivysjvh
zqhvsqiayqombdspjomh,sqhsjtsvrsbufiqabshrubsyrdcsqi .sProeirnh
tdnvvbijomhsqoesvyirffjomhshyrr sjv.sVyrnmysfrejdcsnoyqiube,sjvsnvvbibe
aijbh,sqhshrubs jom’hsmyrhvsjoshngbioqvniqdsejhvibhh.sVyirnmysjvh
jobxgibhhjfdb,shviqombsbcbh,subvyrnmyvsJsgbbgbesvrshbaibvhspyjaysvrr 
yrdesrtsMre.sQhsQfiqyqusfbtribsvybsqombdh,sJsfrpbesuchbdt;svybspyjvb
vyjomspqhshrspyjvb,sjvhspjomhshrspjeb,sqoesjosvyrhbstrisbzbisbxjdbe
pqvbih,sJsyqesdrhvsvybsujhbiqfdbspqigjomsuburijbhsrtsviqejvjrohsqoesrt
vrpoh.sDromsJsmqwbesqvsvyqvsgirejmcsrtsgdnuqmb.sJsaqoorvsvbdd,saqosrodc
yjov,svybsvyjomhsvyqvseqivbesvyirnmysubsvybo.sFnvsqvsdqhvsJsqpr b;sqoe
vniojom,sqh besqshqjdrispyqvsfjiespqhsvyjh.sQsmrobc,sybsibgdjbe.sMrobc!
obzbisyqesybqiesvyqvsoqubsfbtrib;sjhsjvsaroabjzqfdbsvyqvsvyjhsmdrijrnh
vyjomsjhsnvvbidcsno orposvrsubosqhyrib!sobzbi!sFnvshrubsvjubsqtvbi,sJ
dbqiobesvyqvsmrobcspqhshrubshbquqo’hsoqubstrisqdfqvirhh.sHrsvyqvsfcsor
grhhjfjdjvcsarndesArdbijemb’hspjdesIycubsyqzbsyqesqnmyvsvrserspjvy
vyrhbsuchvjaqdsjugibhhjrohspyjayspbibsujob,spybosJshqpsvyqvsfjiesngro
rniseba .sTrisobjvybisyqesJsvybosibqesvybsIycub,soris obpsvybsfjiesvr
fbsqosqdfqvirhh.sCbv,sjoshqcjomsvyjh,sJsersfnvsjoejibavdcsfniojhysq
djvvdbsfijmyvbisvybsorfdbsubijvsrtsvybsgrbusqoesvybsgrbv.

Jsqhhbiv,svybo,svyqvsjosvybsproeirnhsfrejdcspyjvbobhhsrtsvybsfjie
ayjbtdcsdni hsvybshbaibvsrtsvybshgbdd;sqsvinvysvybsuribsbzjoabesjo
vyjh,svyqvsfcsqshrdbajhusrtsvbiuhsvybibsqibsfjiehsaqddbesmibc
qdfqvirhhbh;sqoesvybhbsJsyqzbstiblnbovdcshbbo,sfnvsobzbispjvyshnay
burvjrohsqhspybosJsfbybdesvybsQovqiavjastrpd.

Fnvsyrpsyqesvybsuchvjasvyjomsfbbosaqnmyv?sPyjhgbisjvsorv,sqoesJspjdd
vbdd;spjvysqsvibqaybirnhsyrr sqoesdjob,sqhsvybstrpdstdrqvbesrosvybshbq.
QvsdqhvsvybsAqgvqjosuqebsqsgrhvuqosrtsjv;svcjomsqsdbvvbibe,sdbqvybio
vqddcsirnoesjvhsoba ,spjvysvybshyjg’hsvjubsqoesgdqab;sqoesvybosdbvvjom
jvsbhaqgb.sFnvsJsernfvsorv,svyqvsdbqvybiosvqddc,subqovstrisuqo,spqh
vq bosrttsjosYbqzbo,spybosvybspyjvbstrpdstdbpsvrskrjosvybspjom-trdejom,
vybsjozr jom,sqoesqerijomsaybinfju!

UrhvstqurnhsjosrnisPbhvbiosqooqdhsqoesJoejqosviqejvjrohsjhsvyqvsrtsvyb
PyjvbsHvbbesrtsvybsGiqjijbh;sqsuqmojtjabovsujd -pyjvbsayqimbi,
dqimb-bcbe,shuqdd-ybqebe,sfdntt-aybhvbe,sqoespjvysvybsejmojvcsrtsq
vyrnhqoesuroqiayhsjosyjhsdrtvc,srzbihariojomsaqiijqmb.sYbspqhsvyb
bdbavbesXbixbhsrtszqhvsybiehsrtspjdesyrihbh,spyrhbsgqhvnibhsjosvyrhb
eqchspbibsrodcstboabesfcsvybsIra csUrnovqjohsqoesvybsQddbmyqojbh.sQv
vybjistdqujomsybqesybspbhvpqiesvirrgbesjvsdj bsvyqvsayrhboshvqispyjay
bzbicsbzbojomsdbqehsrosvybsyrhvhsrtsdjmyv.sVybstdqhyjomsaqhaqebsrtsyjh
uqob,svybsanizjomsarubvsrtsyjhsvqjd,sjozbhvbesyjuspjvysyrnhjomhsurib
ibhgdboebovsvyqosmrdesqoeshjdzbi-fbqvbihsarndesyqzbstniojhybesyju.sQ
urhvsjugbijqdsqoesqiayqombdjaqdsqggqijvjrosrtsvyqvsnotqddbo,spbhvbio
pride,spyjaysvrsvybsbcbhsrtsvybsrdesviqggbihsqoesynovbihsibzjzbesvyb
mdrijbhsrtsvyrhbsgijubzqdsvjubhspybosQequspqd besuqkbhvjasqhsqsmre,
fdntt-firpbesqoestbqidbhhsqhsvyjhsujmyvcshvbbe.sPybvybisuqiayjomsquje
yjhsqjebhsqoesuqihyqdhsjosvybszqosrtsarnovdbhhsaryrivhsvyqvsboedbhhdc
hvibqubesjvsrzbisvybsgdqjoh,sdj bsqosRyjr;srispybvybispjvysyjh
ajianuqufjbovshnfkbavhsfirphjomsqddsqirnoesqvsvybsyrijwro,svybsPyjvb
Hvbbesmqddrgjomdcsibzjbpbesvybuspjvyspqiusorhvijdhsibeebojomsvyirnmy
yjhsarrdsujd jobhh;sjospyqvbzbisqhgbavsybsgibhbovbesyjuhbdt,sqdpqchsvr
vybsfiqzbhvsJoejqohsybspqhsvybsrfkbavsrtsvibufdjomsibzbiboabsqoesqpb.
Orisaqosjvsfbslnbhvjrobestiruspyqvshvqoehsrosdbmboeqicsibariesrtsvyjh
orfdbsyrihb,svyqvsjvspqhsyjhshgjijvnqdspyjvbobhhsayjbtdc,spyjayshr
adrvybesyjuspjvysejzjobobhh;sqoesvyqvsvyjhsejzjobobhhsyqesvyqvsjosjv
pyjay,svyrnmysaruuqoejomsprihyjg,sqvsvybshqubsvjubsbotriabesqsabivqjo
oqubdbhhsvbiiri.

Fnvsvybibsqibsrvybisjohvqoabhspybibsvyjhspyjvbobhhsdrhbhsqddsvyqv
qaabhhricsqoeshviqombsmdricspyjaysjozbhvhsjvsjosvybsPyjvbsHvbbesqoe
Qdfqvirhh.

PyqvsjhsjvsvyqvsjosvybsQdfjorsuqoshrsgbandjqidcsibgbdhsqoesrtvboshyra h
vybsbcb,sqhsvyqvshrubvjubhsybsjhsdrqvybesfcsyjhsrpos jvysqoes jo!sJvsjh
vyqvspyjvbobhhspyjaysjozbhvhsyju,sqsvyjomsbxgibhhbesfcsvybsoqubsyb
fbqih.sVybsQdfjorsjhsqhspbddsuqebsqhsrvybisubo—yqhsorshnfhvqovjzb
ebtriujvc—qoescbvsvyjhsubibsqhgbavsrtsqdd-gbizqejomspyjvbobhhsuq bhsyju
uribshviqombdcsyjebrnhsvyqosvybsnmdjbhvsqfrivjro.sPycshyrndesvyjhsfb
hr?

Ori,sjoslnjvbsrvybisqhgbavh,serbhsOqvnibsjosybisdbqhvsgqdgqfdbsfnvsorv
vybsdbhhsuqdjajrnhsqmboajbh,stqjdsvrsbodjhvsquromsybistriabhsvyjh
airpojomsqvvijfnvbsrtsvybsvbiijfdb.sTirusjvhshorpcsqhgbav,svyb
mqnovdbvbesmyrhvsrtsvybsHrnvybiosHbqhsyqhsfbboseborujoqvbesvybsPyjvb
Hlnqdd.sOri,sjoshrubsyjhvrijasjohvqoabh,syqhsvybsqivsrtsynuqosuqdjab
rujvvbeshrsgrvbovsqosqnxjdjqic.sYrpspjdedcsjvsybjmyvbohsvybsbttbavsrt
vyqvsgqhhqmbsjosTirjhhqiv,spybo,suqh besjosvybshorpcshcufrdsrtsvybji
tqavjro,svybsebhgbiqvbsPyjvbsYrrehsrtsMybovsuniebisvybjisfqjdjttsjosvyb
uqi bv-gdqab!

Ori,sjoshrubsvyjomh,serbhsvybsaruuro,sybibejvqicsbxgbijboabsrtsqdd
uqo joestqjdsvrsfbqispjvobhhsvrsvybshngbioqvniqdjhusrtsvyjhsynb.sJv
aqoorvspbddsfbsernfvbe,svyqvsvybsrobszjhjfdbslnqdjvcsjosvybsqhgbavsrt
vybsebqespyjaysurhvsqggqdhsvybsmqwbi,sjhsvybsuqifdbsgqddrisdjombijom
vybib;sqhsjtsjoebbesvyqvsgqddrispbibsqhsunaysdj bsvybsfqembsrt
arohvbioqvjrosjosvybsrvybispride,sqhsrtsurivqdsvibgjeqvjrosybib.sQoe
tirusvyqvsgqddrisrtsvybsebqe,spbsfriirpsvybsbxgibhhjzbsynbsrtsvyb
hyirnesjospyjayspbspiqgsvybu.sOrisbzbosjosrnishngbihvjvjrohserspbstqjd
vrsvyirpsvybshqubshorpcsuqovdbsirnoesrnisgyqovruh;sqddsmyrhvhsijhjomsjo
qsujd -pyjvbstrm—Cbq,spyjdbsvybhbsvbiirihshbjwbsnh,sdbvsnhsqee,svyqv
bzbosvybs jomsrtsvbiirih,spybosgbihrojtjbesfcsvybsbzqombdjhv,sijebhsro
yjhsgqddjesyrihb.

Vybibtrib,sjosyjhsrvybisurreh,shcufrdjwbspyqvbzbismiqoesrismiqajrnh
vyjomsybspjddsfcspyjvbobhh,sorsuqosaqosebocsvyqvsjosjvhsgirtrnoebhv
jebqdjwbeshjmojtjaqoabsjvsaqddhsngsqsgbandjqisqggqijvjrosvrsvybshrnd.

Fnvsvyrnmyspjvyrnvsejhhbovsvyjhsgrjovsfbstjxbe,syrpsjhsurivqdsuqosvr
qaarnovstrisjv?sVrsqoqdchbsjv,sprndeshbbusjugrhhjfdb.sAqospb,svybo,sfc
vybsajvqvjrosrtshrubsrtsvyrhbsjohvqoabhspybibjosvyjhsvyjomsrt
pyjvbobhh—vyrnmystrisvybsvjubsbjvybispyrddcsrisjosmibqvsgqivshvijggbe
rtsqddsejibavsqhhrajqvjrohsaqdandqvbesvrsjugqivsvrsjvsqnmyvstbqitnd,
fnvsobzbivybdbhh,sjhstrnoesvrsbxbivsrzbisnhsvybshqubshriabic,syrpbzbi
urejtjbe;—aqospbsvynhsyrgbsvrsdjmyvsngroshrubsayqoabsadnbsvrsaroenavsnh
vrsvybsyjeebosaqnhbspbshbb ?

Dbvsnhsvic.sFnvsjosqsuqvvbisdj bsvyjh,shnfvdbvcsqggbqdhsvrshnfvdbvc,
qoespjvyrnvsjuqmjoqvjrosorsuqosaqostrddrpsqorvybisjovrsvybhbsyqddh.sQoe
vyrnmy,sernfvdbhh,shrubsqvsdbqhvsrtsvybsjuqmjoqvjzbsjugibhhjrohsqfrnv
vrsfbsgibhbovbesuqcsyqzbsfbboshyqibesfcsurhvsubo,scbvstbpsgbiyqghspbib
bovjibdcsarohajrnhsrtsvybusqvsvybsvjub,sqoesvybibtribsuqcsorvsfbsqfdb
vrsibaqddsvybusorp.

Pycsvrsvybsuqosrtsnovnvribesjebqdjvc,spyrsyqggbohsvrsfbsfnvsdrrhbdc
qalnqjovbespjvysvybsgbandjqisayqiqavbisrtsvybseqc,serbhsvybsfqib
ubovjrosrtsPyjvhnovjebsuqihyqdsjosvybstqoacshnaysdrom,seibqic,
hgbbaydbhhsgirabhhjrohsrtshdrp-gqajomsgjdmijuh,serpo-aqhvsqoesyrrebe
pjvysobp-tqddboshorp?sRi,svrsvybsnoibqe,snohrgyjhvjaqvbesGirvbhvqovsrt
vybsUjeedbsQubijaqosHvqvbh,spycserbhsvybsgqhhjomsubovjrosrtsqsPyjvb
TijqisrisqsPyjvbsOno,sbzr bshnaysqosbcbdbhhshvqvnbsjosvybshrnd?

Rispyqvsjhsvybibsqgqivstirusvybsviqejvjrohsrtsenombrobespqiijrihsqoe
 jomhs(pyjayspjddsorvspyrddcsqaarnovstrisjv)svyqvsuq bhsvybsPyjvbsVrpbi
rtsDroerosvbddshrsunaysuribshviromdcsrosvybsjuqmjoqvjrosrtsqo
noviqzbddbesQubijaqo,svyqosvyrhbsrvybishvrijbeshvinavnibh,sjvh
objmyfrih—vybsFcpqiesVrpbi,srisbzbosvybsFdrrec?sQoesvyrhbshnfdjubi
vrpbih,svybsPyjvbsUrnovqjohsrtsObpsYqughyjib,spyboab,sjosgbandjqi
urreh,sarubhsvyqvsmjmqovjasmyrhvdjobhhsrzbisvybshrndsqvsvybsfqib
ubovjrosrtsvyqvsoqub,spyjdbsvybsvyrnmyvsrtsZjimjojq’hsFdnbsIjembsjh
tnddsrtsqshrtv,sebpc,sejhvqovseibqujobhh?sRispyc,sjiibhgbavjzbsrtsqdd
dqvjvnebhsqoesdromjvnebh,serbhsvybsoqubsrtsvybsPyjvbsHbqsbxbivshnaysq
hgbaviqdobhhsrzbisvybstqoac,spyjdbsvyqvsrtsvybsCbddrpsHbqsdnddhsnhspjvy
urivqdsvyrnmyvhsrtsdromsdqalnbibesujdesqtvbiorrohsrosvybspqzbh,
trddrpbesfcsvybsmqnejbhvsqoescbvshdbbgjbhvsrtshnohbvh?sRi,svrsayrrhbsq
pyrddcsnohnfhvqovjqdsjohvqoab,sgnibdcsqeeibhhbesvrsvybstqoac,spyc,sjo
ibqejomsvybsrdestqjicsvqdbhsrtsAboviqdsBnirgb,serbhs“vybsvqddsgqdbsuqo”
rtsvybsYqivwstribhvh,spyrhbsayqombdbhhsgqddrisnoinhvdjomdcsmdjebh
vyirnmysvybsmibbosrtsvybsmirzbh—pycsjhsvyjhsgyqovrusuribsvbiijfdbsvyqo
qddsvybspyrrgjomsjughsrtsvybsFdra hfnim?

Orisjhsjv,sqdvrmbvybi,svybsibubufiqoabsrtsybisaqvybeiqd-vrggdjom
bqivylnq bh;sorisvybshvqugberbhsrtsybistiqovjashbqh;sorisvyb
vbqidbhhobhhsrtsqijesh jbhsvyqvsobzbisiqjo;sorisvybshjmyvsrtsybispjeb
tjbdesrtsdbqojomshgjibh,spiboaybesargb-hvrobh,sqoesairhhbhsqddsqeirrg
(dj bsaqovbescqiehsrtsqoayribestdbbvh);sqoesybishnfnifqosqzbonbhsrt
yrnhb-pqddhsdcjomsrzbisngrosbqaysrvybi,sqhsqsvrhhbesgqa srtsaqieh;—jv
jhsorvsvybhbsvyjomhsqdrobspyjaysuq bsvbqidbhhsDjuq,svybshviqombhv,
hqeebhvsajvcsvyrnsaqo’hvshbb.sTrisDjuqsyqhsvq bosvybspyjvbszbjd;sqoe
vybibsjhsqsyjmybisyriirisjosvyjhspyjvbobhhsrtsybisprb.sRdesqhsGjwqiir,
vyjhspyjvbobhhs bbghsybisinjohstrisbzbisobp;sqeujvhsorvsvybsaybbitnd
mibboobhhsrtsarugdbvbsebaqc;shgibqehsrzbisybisfir bosiqugqivhsvybsijmje
gqddrisrtsqosqgrgdbxcsvyqvstjxbhsjvhsrposejhvrivjroh.

Js orpsvyqv,svrsvybsaruurosqggibybohjro,svyjhsgyboruborosrtspyjvbobhh
jhsorvsarotbhhbesvrsfbsvybsgijubsqmbovsjosbxqmmbiqvjomsvybsvbiirisrt
rfkbavhsrvybipjhbsvbiijfdb;sorisvrsvybsnojuqmjoqvjzbsujoesjhsvybib
qnmyvsrtsvbiirisjosvyrhbsqggbqiqoabhspyrhbsqptndobhhsvrsqorvybisujoe
qdurhvshrdbdcsarohjhvhsjosvyjhsrobsgyboruboro,sbhgbajqddcspybo
bxyjfjvbesnoebisqocstriusqvsqddsqggirqayjomsvrsunvbobhhsri
nojzbihqdjvc.sPyqvsJsubqosfcsvybhbsvprshvqvbubovhsuqcsgbiyqghsfb
ibhgbavjzbdcsbdnajeqvbesfcsvybstrddrpjomsbxqugdbh.

Tjihv:sVybsuqijobi,spyboseiqpjomsojmysvybsarqhvhsrtstribjmosdqoeh,sjt
fcsojmyvsybsybqisvybsirqisrtsfibq bih,shvqivhsvrszjmjdqoab,sqoestbbdh
knhvsbornmysrtsvibgjeqvjrosvrshyqigbosqddsyjhstqandvjbh;sfnvsnoebi
gibajhbdcshjujdqisajianuhvqoabh,sdbvsyjusfbsaqddbestirusyjhsyquura svr
zjbpsyjhshyjgshqjdjomsvyirnmysqsujeojmyvshbqsrtsujd cspyjvbobhh—qhsjt
tirusboajiadjomsybqedqoehshyrqdhsrtsarufbespyjvbsfbqihspbibshpjuujom
irnoesyju,svybosybstbbdhsqshjdbov,shngbihvjvjrnhseibqe;svybshyirnebe
gyqovrusrtsvybspyjvbobespqvbihsjhsyriijfdbsvrsyjusqhsqsibqdsmyrhv;sjo
zqjosvybsdbqesqhhnibhsyjusybsjhshvjddsrttshrnoejomh;sybqivsqoesybdu
vybcsfrvysmrserpo;sybsobzbisibhvhsvjddsfdnbspqvbisjhsnoebisyjusqmqjo.
Cbvspybibsjhsvybsuqijobispyrspjddsvbddsvybb,s“Hji,sjvspqhsorvshrsunay
vybstbqisrtshvij jomsyjeebosira h,sqhsvybstbqisrtsvyqvsyjebrnh
pyjvbobhhsvyqvshrshvjiibesub?”

Hbaroe:sVrsvybsoqvjzbsJoejqosrtsGbin,svybsarovjonqdshjmyvsrtsvyb
horp-yrpeqybesQoebhsarozbchsoqnmyvsrtseibqe,sbxabgv,sgbiyqgh,sjosvyb
ubibstqoacjomsrtsvybsbvbioqdstirhvbesebhrdqvbobhhsibjmojomsqvshnayszqhv
qdvjvnebh,sqoesvybsoqvniqdsaroabjvsrtspyqvsqstbqitndobhhsjvsprndesfbsvr
drhbsrobhbdtsjoshnaysjoynuqoshrdjvnebh.sUnaysvybshqubsjhsjvspjvysvyb
fqa prrehuqosrtsvybsPbhv,spyrspjvysarugqiqvjzbsjoejttbiboabszjbphsqo
nofrnoebesgiqjijbshybbvbespjvyseijzboshorp,sorshyqerpsrtsvibbsrisvpjm
vrsfibq svybstjxbesviqoabsrtspyjvbobhh.sOrvshrsvybshqjdri,sfbyrdejom
vybshabobicsrtsvybsQovqiavjashbqh;spybibsqvsvjubh,sfcshrubsjotbioqd
vija srtsdbmbiebuqjosjosvybsgrpbihsrtstirhvsqoesqji,syb,shyjzbijomsqoe
yqdtshyjgpiba be,sjohvbqesrtsiqjofrphshgbq jomsyrgbsqoeshrdqabsvrsyjh
ujhbic,szjbphspyqvshbbuhsqsfrnoedbhhsayniaycqiesmijoojomsngrosyjuspjvy
jvhsdbqosjabsuronubovhsqoeshgdjovbibesairhhbh.

Fnvsvyrnshqcbhv,subvyjo hsvyqvspyjvb-dbqesayqgvbisqfrnvspyjvbobhhsjh
fnvsqspyjvbstdqmsynomsrnvstirusqsaiqzboshrnd;svyrnshniiboebibhvsvrsq
ycgr,sJhyuqbd.

Vbddsub,spycsvyjhshviromscrnomsardv,strqdbesjoshrubsgbqabtndszqddbcsrt
Zbiurov,stqisiburzbestirusqddsfbqhvhsrtsgibc—pycsjhsjvsvyqvsngrosvyb
hnoojbhvseqc,sjtscrnsfnvshyq bsqstibhysfnttqdrsirfbsfbyjoesyju,shrsvyqv
ybsaqoorvsbzboshbbsjv,sfnvsrodcshubddhsjvhspjdesqojuqdsunh jobhh—pyc
pjddsybshvqiv,shoriv,sqoespjvysfnihvjomsbcbhsgqpsvybsmirnoesjo
gyibohjbhsrtsqttijmyv?sVybibsjhsorsibubufiqoabsjosyjusrtsqocsmrijomhsrt
pjdesaibqvnibhsjosyjhsmibbosorivybiosyrub,shrsvyqvsvybshviqomb
unh jobhhsybshubddhsaqoorvsibaqddsvrsyjusqocvyjomsqhhrajqvbespjvysvyb
bxgbijboabsrtstriubisgbijdh;strispyqvs orphsyb,svyjhsObpsBomdqoesardv,
rtsvybsfdqa sfjhrohsrtsejhvqovsRibmro?

Or:sfnvsybibsvyrnsfbyrdebhvsbzbosjosqsenufsfinvb,svybsjohvjoavsrtsvyb
 orpdbembsrtsvybseburojhusjosvybspride.sVyrnmysvyrnhqoehsrtsujdbhstiru
Ribmro,shvjddspybosybshubddhsvyqvshqzqmbsunh ,svybsiboejom,smrijom
fjhrosybiehsqibsqhsgibhbovsqhsvrsvybsebhbivbespjdestrqdsrtsvyb
giqjijbh,spyjaysvyjhsjohvqovsvybcsuqcsfbsviqugdjomsjovrsenhv.

Vynh,svybo,svybsunttdbesirddjomhsrtsqsujd cshbq;svybsfdbq sinhvdjomhsrt
vybstbhvrrobestirhvhsrtsurnovqjoh;svybsebhrdqvbshyjtvjomhsrtsvyb
pjoeirpbeshorphsrtsgiqjijbh;sqddsvybhb,svrsJhyuqbd,sqibsqhsvybshyq jom
rtsvyqvsfnttqdrsirfbsvrsvybstijmyvbobesardv!

Vyrnmysobjvybis orphspybibsdjbsvybsoqubdbhhsvyjomhsrtspyjaysvybsuchvja
hjmosmjzbhstrivyshnaysyjovh;scbvspjvysub,sqhspjvysvybsardv,shrubpybib
vyrhbsvyjomhsunhvsbxjhv.sVyrnmysjosuqocsrtsjvhsqhgbavhsvyjhszjhjfdb
prideshbbuhstriubesjosdrzb,svybsjozjhjfdbshgybibhspbibstriubesjo
tijmyv.

Fnvsorvscbvsyqzbspbshrdzbesvybsjoaqovqvjrosrtsvyjhspyjvbobhh,sqoe
dbqiobespycsjvsqggbqdhspjvyshnaysgrpbisvrsvybshrnd;sqoesuribshviqomb
qoestqisuribsgrivbovrnh—pyc,sqhspbsyqzbshbbo,sjvsjhsqvsroabsvybsurhv
ubqojomshcufrdsrtshgjijvnqdsvyjomh,soqc,svybszbicszbjdsrtsvyb
Ayijhvjqo’hsEbjvc;sqoescbvshyrndesfbsqhsjvsjh,svybsjovbohjtcjomsqmbov
josvyjomhsvybsurhvsqggqddjomsvrsuqo joe.

Jhsjvsvyqvsfcsjvhsjoebtjojvbobhhsjvshyqerphstrivysvybsybqivdbhhszrjeh
qoesjuubohjvjbhsrtsvybsnojzbihb,sqoesvynhshvqfhsnhstirusfbyjoespjvysvyb
vyrnmyvsrtsqoojyjdqvjro,spybosfbyrdejomsvybspyjvbsebgvyhsrtsvybsujd c
pqc?sRisjhsjv,svyqvsqhsjosbhhboabspyjvbobhhsjhsorvshrsunaysqsardrnisqh
vybszjhjfdbsqfhboabsrtsardrni;sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsvybsaroaibvbsrtsqdd
ardrnih;sjhsjvstrisvybhbsibqhrohsvyqvsvybibsjhshnaysqsenufsfdqo obhh,
tnddsrtsubqojom,sjosqspjebsdqoehaqgbsrtshorph—qsardrnidbhh,sqdd-ardrni
rtsqvybjhustiruspyjayspbshyijo ?sQoespybospbsarohjebisvyqvsrvybisvybric
rtsvybsoqvniqdsgyjdrhrgybih,svyqvsqddsrvybisbqivydcsynbh—bzbicshvqvbdc
risdrzbdcsbufdqwrojom—vybshpbbvsvjombhsrtshnohbvsh jbhsqoesprreh;scbq,
qoesvybsmjdebeszbdzbvhsrtsfnvvbitdjbh,sqoesvybsfnvvbitdcsaybb hsrt
crnomsmjidh;sqddsvybhbsqibsfnvshnfvjdbsebabjvh,sorvsqavnqddcsjoybibov
joshnfhvqoabh,sfnvsrodcsdqjesrostiruspjvyrnv;shrsvyqvsqddsebjtjbe
Oqvnibsqfhrdnvbdcsgqjovhsdj bsvybsyqidrv,spyrhbsqddnibubovhsarzbi
orvyjomsfnvsvybsayqiobd-yrnhbspjvyjo;sqoespybospbsgirabbestnivybi,sqoe
arohjebisvyqvsvybsuchvjaqdsarhubvjaspyjaysgirenabhsbzbicsrobsrtsybi
ynbh,svybsmibqvsgijoajgdbsrtsdjmyv,strisbzbisibuqjohspyjvbsrisardridbhh
josjvhbdt,sqoesjtsrgbiqvjomspjvyrnvsubejnusngrosuqvvbi,sprndesvrnaysqdd
rfkbavh,sbzbosvndjghsqoesirhbh,spjvysjvhsrposfdqo svjomb—groebijomsqdd
vyjh,svybsgqdhjbesnojzbihbsdjbhsfbtribsnhsqsdbgbi;sqoesdj bspjdtnd
viqzbddbihsjosDqgdqoe,spyrsibtnhbsvrspbqisardrnibesqoesardrnijom
mdqhhbhsngrosvybjisbcbh,shrsvybspibvaybesjotjebdsmqwbhsyjuhbdtsfdjoesqv
vybsuronubovqdspyjvbshyirnesvyqvspiqghsqddsvybsgirhgbavsqirnoesyju.sQoe
rtsqddsvybhbsvyjomhsvybsQdfjorspyqdbspqhsvybshcufrd.sProebiscbsvybosqv
vybstjbicsynov?


AYQGVBIs43.sYqi !

“YJHV!sEjescrnsybqisvyqvsorjhb,sAqfqar?”

Jvspqhsvybsujeedb-pqvay:sqstqjisurrodjmyv;svybshbqubospbibshvqoejomsjo
qsariero,sbxvboejomstirusrobsrtsvybstibhy-pqvbisfnvvhsjosvybspqjhv,svr
vybshanvvdb-fnvvsobqisvybsvqttiqjd.sJosvyjhsuqoobi,svybcsgqhhbesvyb
fna bvhsvrstjddsvybshanvvdb-fnvv.sHvqoejom,strisvybsurhvsgqiv,srosvyb
yqddrpbesgibajoavhsrtsvybslnqivbi-eba ,svybcspbibsaqibtndsorvsvrshgbq 
risinhvdbsvybjistbbv.sTirusyqoesvrsyqoe,svybsfna bvhspbovsjosvyb
ebbgbhvshjdboab,srodcsfir bosfcsvybsraaqhjroqdstdqgsrtsqshqjd,sqoesvyb
hvbqecsynusrtsvybsnoabqhjomdcsqezqoajoms bbd.

Jvspqhsjosvybsujehvsrtsvyjhsibgrhb,svyqvsQiayc,srobsrtsvybsariero,
pyrhbsgrhvspqhsobqisvybsqtvbi-yqvaybh,spyjhgbibesvrsyjhsobjmyfri,sq
Ayrdr,svybspriehsqfrzb.

“Yjhv!sejescrnsybqisvyqvsorjhb,sAqfqar?”

“Vq bsvybsfna bv,spjddscb,sQiayc?spyqvsorjhbse’cbsubqo?”

“Vybibsjvsjhsqmqjo—noebisvybsyqvaybh—ero’vscrnsybqisjv—qsarnmy—jv
hrnoebesdj bsqsarnmy.”

“Arnmysfbsequobe!sGqhhsqdromsvyqvsibvniosfna bv.”

“Vybibsqmqjo—vybibsjvsjh!—jvshrnoehsdj bsvprsrisvyibbshdbbgbihsvniojom
rzbi,sorp!”

“Aqiqufq!syqzbserob,shyjguqvb,spjddscb?sJv’hsvybsvyibbshrq besfjhanjvh
cbsbqvstrishnggbisvniojomsrzbisjohjebsrtscb—orvyjomsbdhb.sDrr svrsvyb
fna bv!”

“Hqcspyqvscbspjdd,shyjguqvb;sJ’zbshyqigsbqih.”

“Qcb,scrnsqibsvybsayqg,sqjo’vscb,svyqvsybqiesvybsynusrtsvybsrde
Lnq bibhh’hs ojvvjom-obbedbhstjtvcsujdbhsqvshbqstirusOqovna bv;scrn’ib
vybsayqg.”

“Mijosqpqc;spb’ddshbbspyqvsvniohsng.sYqi scb,sAqfqar,svybibsjhshrubfrec
erposjosvybsqtvbi-yrdesvyqvsyqhsorvscbvsfbboshbbosroseba ;sqoesJ
hnhgbavsrnisrdesUrmnds orphshrubvyjomsrtsjvsvrr.sJsybqiesHvnffsvbdd
Tdqh ,srobsuriojomspqvay,svyqvsvybibspqhshrubvyjomsrtsvyqvshrivsjosvyb
pjoe.”

“Vjhy!svybsfna bv!”


AYQGVBIs44.sVybsAyqiv.

YqescrnstrddrpbesAqgvqjosQyqfserposjovrsyjhsaqfjosqtvbisvybshlnqddsvyqv
vrr sgdqabsrosvybsojmyvshnaabbejomsvyqvspjdesiqvjtjaqvjrosrtsyjh
gnigrhbspjvysyjhsaibp,scrnsprndesyqzbshbbosyjusmrsvrsqsdra bisjosvyb
viqohru,sqoesfijomjomsrnvsqsdqimbspijo dbesirddsrtscbddrpjhyshbq
ayqivh,shgibqesvybusfbtribsyjusrosyjhshaibpbe-erposvqfdb.sVyboshbqvjom
yjuhbdtsfbtribsjv,scrnsprndesyqzbshbbosyjusjovbovdcshvnecsvybszqijrnh
djobhsqoeshyqejomhspyjaysvybibsubvsyjhsbcb;sqoespjvyshdrpsfnvshvbqec
gboajdsviqabsqeejvjroqdsarnihbhsrzbishgqabhsvyqvsfbtribspbibsfdqo .sQv
jovbizqdh,sybsprndesibtbisvrsgjdbhsrtsrdesdrm-frr hsfbhjebsyju,spybibjo
pbibshbvserposvybshbqhrohsqoesgdqabhsjospyjay,sroszqijrnhstriubi
zrcqmbhsrtszqijrnhshyjgh,shgbiuspyqdbhsyqesfbbosaqgvnibesrishbbo.

Pyjdbsvynhsbugdrcbe,svybsybqzcsgbpvbisdqugshnhgboebesjosayqjohsrzbisyjh
ybqe,sarovjonqddcsira bespjvysvybsurvjrosrtsvybshyjg,sqoestrisbzbi
vyibpshyjtvjomsmdbquhsqoeshyqerphsrtsdjobhsngrosyjhspijo dbesfirp,svjdd
jvsqdurhvshbbubesvyqvspyjdbsybsyjuhbdtspqhsuqi jomsrnvsdjobhsqoe
arnihbhsrosvybspijo dbesayqivh,shrubsjozjhjfdbsgboajdspqhsqdhrsviqajom
djobhsqoesarnihbhsngrosvybsebbgdcsuqi besayqivsrtsyjhstribybqe.

Fnvsjvspqhsorvsvyjhsojmyvsjosgqivjandqisvyqv,sjosvybshrdjvnebsrtsyjh
aqfjo,sQyqfsvynhsgroebibesrzbisyjhsayqivh.sQdurhvsbzbicsojmyvsvybcspbib
firnmyvsrnv;sqdurhvsbzbicsojmyvshrubsgboajdsuqi hspbibsbttqabe,sqoe
rvybihspbibshnfhvjvnvbe.sTrispjvysvybsayqivhsrtsqddstrnisrabqohsfbtrib
yju,sQyqfspqhsvyibqejomsqsuqwbsrtsaniibovhsqoesbeejbh,spjvysqszjbpsvr
vybsuribsabivqjosqaarugdjhyubovsrtsvyqvsuroruqojqasvyrnmyvsrtsyjhshrnd.

Orp,svrsqocsrobsorvstnddcsqalnqjovbespjvysvybspqchsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqoh,
jvsujmyvshbbusqosqfhniedcsyrgbdbhhsvqh svynhsvrshbb srnvsrobshrdjvqic
aibqvnibsjosvybsnoyrrgbesrabqohsrtsvyjhsgdqobv.sFnvsorvshrsejesjvshbbu
vrsQyqf,spyrs obpsvybshbvhsrtsqddsvjebhsqoesaniibovh;sqoesvybibfc
aqdandqvjomsvybseijtvjomhsrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hstrre;sqoe,sqdhr,saqddjom
vrsujoesvybsibmndqi,sqhabivqjobeshbqhrohstrisynovjomsyjusjosgqivjandqi
dqvjvnebh;sarndesqiijzbsqvsibqhroqfdbshniujhbh,sqdurhvsqggirqayjomsvr
abivqjovjbh,saroabiojomsvybsvjubdjbhvseqcsvrsfbsngrosvyjhsrisvyqv
mirnoesjoshbqiaysrtsyjhsgibc.

Hrsqhhnibe,sjoebbe,sjhsvybstqavsaroabiojomsvybsgbijrejaqdobhhsrtsvyb
hgbiuspyqdb’hsibhrivjomsvrsmjzbospqvbih,svyqvsuqocsynovbihsfbdjbzb
vyqv,sarndesybsfbsadrhbdcsrfhbizbesqoeshvnejbesvyirnmyrnvsvybspride;
pbibsvybsdrmhstrisrobszrcqmbsrtsvybsbovjibspyqdbstdbbvsaqibtnddc
arddqvbe,svybosvybsujmiqvjrohsrtsvybshgbiuspyqdbsprndesfbstrnoesvr
ariibhgroesjosjozqijqfjdjvcsvrsvyrhbsrtsvybsybiijom-hyrqdhsrisvyb
tdjmyvhsrtshpqddrph.sRosvyjhsyjov,sqvvbugvhsyqzbsfbbosuqebsvrsarohvinav
bdqfriqvbsujmiqvricsayqivhsrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb.*


ss*Hjoabsvybsqfrzbspqhspijvvbo,svybshvqvbubovsjhsyqggjdcsfriobsrnvsfc
ssqosrttjajqdsajiandqi,sjhhnbesfcsDjbnvboqovsUqnic,srtsvybsOqvjroqd
ssRfhbizqvric,sPqhyjomvro,sQgijds16vy,s1851.sFcsvyqvsajiandqi,sjv
ssqggbqihsvyqvsgibajhbdcshnaysqsayqivsjhsjosarnihbsrtsarugdbvjro;sqoe
ssgrivjrohsrtsjvsqibsgibhbovbesjosvybsajiandqi.s“Vyjhsayqivsejzjebhsvyb
ssrabqosjovrsejhvijavhsrtstjzbsebmibbhsrtsdqvjvnebsfcstjzbsebmibbhsrt
ssdromjvneb;sgbigboejandqidcsvyirnmysbqaysrtspyjaysejhvijavhsqibsvpbdzb
ssardnuohstrisvybsvpbdzbsurovyh;sqoesyrijwrovqddcsvyirnmysbqaysrtspyjay
ssejhvijavhsqibsvyibbsdjobh;srobsvrshyrpsvybsonufbisrtseqchsvyqvsyqzb
ssfbboshgbovsjosbqaysurovysjosbzbicsejhvijav,sqoesvybsvprsrvybihsvr
sshyrpsvybsonufbisrtseqchsjospyjayspyqdbh,shgbiusrisijmyv,syqzbsfbbo
sshbbo.”




Fbhjebh,spybosuq jomsqsgqhhqmbstirusrobstbbejom-mirnoesvrsqorvybi,svyb
hgbiuspyqdbh,smnjebesfcshrubsjotqddjfdbsjohvjoav—hqc,siqvybi,shbaibv
jovbddjmboabstirusvybsEbjvc—urhvdcshpjusjos_zbjoh_,sqhsvybcsqibsaqddbe;
arovjonjomsvybjispqcsqdromsqsmjzbosrabqo-djobspjvyshnaysnoebzjqvjom
bxqavjvneb,svyqvsorshyjgsbzbishqjdbesybisarnihb,sfcsqocsayqiv,spjvysrob
vjvybsrtshnaysuqizbddrnhsgibajhjro.sVyrnmy,sjosvybhbsaqhbh,svyb
ejibavjrosvq bosfcsqocsrobspyqdbsfbshviqjmyvsqhsqshnizbcri’hsgqiqddbd,
qoesvyrnmysvybsdjobsrtsqezqoabsfbshvijavdcsarotjobesvrsjvhsrpo
noqzrjeqfdb,shviqjmyvspq b,scbvsvybsqifjviqics_zbjo_sjospyjaysqvsvybhb
vjubhsybsjhshqjesvrshpju,smbobiqddcsbufiqabhshrubstbpsujdbhsjospjevy
(uribsrisdbhh,sqhsvybszbjosjhsgibhnubesvrsbxgqoesrisaroviqav);sfnv
obzbisbxabbehsvybszjhnqdshpbbgstirusvybspyqdb-hyjg’hsuqhv-ybqeh,spybo
ajianuhgbavdcsmdjejomsqdromsvyjhsuqmjaswrob.sVybshnusjh,svyqvsqv
gqivjandqishbqhrohspjvyjosvyqvsfibqevysqoesqdromsvyqvsgqvy,sujmiqvjom
pyqdbhsuqcspjvysmibqvsarotjeboabsfbsdrr bestri.

Qoesyboabsorvsrodcsqvshnfhvqovjqvbesvjubh,sngrospbdds orposhbgqiqvb
tbbejom-mirnoeh,sarndesQyqfsyrgbsvrsboarnovbisyjhsgibc;sfnvsjosairhhjom
vybspjebhvsbxgqohbhsrtspqvbisfbvpbbosvyrhbsmirnoehsybsarnde,sfcsyjh
qiv,shrsgdqabsqoesvjubsyjuhbdtsrosyjhspqc,sqhsbzbosvybosorvsvrsfb
pyrddcspjvyrnvsgirhgbavsrtsqsubbvjom.

Vybibspqhsqsajianuhvqoabspyjaysqvstjihvshjmyvshbbubesvrsbovqomdbsyjh
ebdjijrnhsfnvshvjddsubvyrejaqdshaybub.sFnvsorvshrsjosvybsibqdjvc,
gbiyqgh.sVyrnmysvybsmibmqijrnhshgbiuspyqdbhsyqzbsvybjisibmndqishbqhroh
trisgqivjandqismirnoeh,scbvsjosmbobiqdscrnsaqoorvsaroadnebsvyqvsvyb
ybiehspyjaysyqnovbeshnaysqoeshnaysqsdqvjvnebsrisdromjvnebsvyjhscbqi,
hqc,spjddsvniosrnvsvrsfbsjebovjaqddcsvybshqubspjvysvyrhbsvyqvspbib
trnoesvybibsvybsgibabejomshbqhro;svyrnmysvybibsqibsgbandjqisqoe
nolnbhvjroqfdbsjohvqoabhspybibsvybsaroviqicsrtsvyjhsyqhsgirzbesvinb.sJo
mbobiqd,svybshqubsibuqi ,srodcspjvyjosqsdbhhspjebsdjujv,sqggdjbhsvrsvyb
hrdjvqijbhsqoesybiujvhsquromsvybsuqvnibe,sqmbeshgbiuspyqdbh.sHrsvyqv
vyrnmysUrfcsEja syqesjosqstriubiscbqisfbboshbbo,strisbxqugdb,srospyqv
jhsaqddbesvybsHbcaybddbsmirnoesjosvybsJoejqosrabqo,srisZrdaqorsFqcsro
vybsKqgqobhbsArqhv;scbvsjvsejesorvstrddrp,svyqvspbibsvybsGblnresvr
zjhjvsbjvybisrtsvyrhbshgrvhsqvsqocshnfhblnbovsariibhgroejomshbqhro,shyb
prndesjotqddjfdcsboarnovbisyjusvybib.sHr,svrr,spjvyshrubsrvybistbbejom
mirnoeh,spybibsybsyqesqvsvjubhsibzbqdbesyjuhbdt.sFnvsqddsvybhbshbbube
rodcsyjhsaqhnqdshvrggjom-gdqabhsqoesrabqo-jooh,shrsvrshgbq ,sorvsyjh
gdqabhsrtsgirdrombesqfreb.sQoespybibsQyqf’hsayqoabhsrtsqaarugdjhyjom
yjhsrfkbavsyqzbsyjvybivrsfbboshgr bosrt,sqddnhjrosyqhsrodcsfbbosuqebsvr
pyqvbzbispqc-hjeb,sqovbabebov,sbxviqsgirhgbavhspbibsyjh,sbibsq
gqivjandqishbvsvjubsrisgdqabspbibsqvvqjobe,spybosqddsgrhhjfjdjvjbh
prndesfbarubsgirfqfjdjvjbh,sqoe,sqhsQyqfstroedcsvyrnmyv,sbzbic
grhhjfjdjvcsvybsobxvsvyjomsvrsqsabivqjovc.sVyqvsgqivjandqishbvsvjubsqoe
gdqabspbibsarokrjobesjosvybsrobsvbayojaqdsgyiqhb—vyb
Hbqhro-ro-vyb-Djob.sTrisvybibsqoesvybo,strishbzbiqdsarohbanvjzbscbqih,
UrfcsEja syqesfbbosgbijrejaqddcsebhaijbe,sdjombijomsjosvyrhbspqvbihstri
qpyjdb,sqhsvybshno,sjosjvhsqoonqdsirnoe,sdrjvbihstrisqsgibejavbe
jovbizqdsjosqocsrobshjmosrtsvybsWrejqa.sVybibsjvspqh,svrr,svyqvsurhvsrt
vybsebqedcsboarnovbihspjvysvybspyjvbspyqdbsyqesvq bosgdqab;svybibsvyb
pqzbhspbibshvrijbespjvysyjhsebbeh;svybibsqdhrspqhsvyqvsviqmjashgrv
pybibsvybsuroruqojqasrdesuqosyqestrnoesvybsqptndsurvjzbsvrsyjh
zbombqoab.sFnvsjosvybsaqnvjrnhsarugibybohjzbobhhsqoesnodrjvbijom
zjmjdqoabspjvyspyjaysQyqfsvyibpsyjhsfirrejomshrndsjovrsvyjhsnotqdvbijom
ynov,sybsprndesorvsgbiujvsyjuhbdtsvrsibhvsqddsyjhsyrgbhsngrosvybsrob
airpojomstqavsqfrzbsubovjrobe,syrpbzbistdqvvbijomsjvsujmyvsfbsvrsvyrhb
yrgbh;sorisjosvybshdbbgdbhhobhhsrtsyjhszrpsarndesybshrsviqolnjddjwbsyjh
nolnjbvsybqivsqhsvrsgrhvgrobsqddsjovbizbojomslnbhv.

Orp,svybsGblnresyqeshqjdbestirusOqovna bvsqvsvybszbicsfbmjoojomsrtsvyb
Hbqhro-ro-vyb-Djob.sOrsgrhhjfdbsboebqzrisvybosarndesboqfdbsybi
aruuqoebisvrsuq bsvybsmibqvsgqhhqmbshrnvypqieh,sernfdbsAqgbsYrio,sqoe
vybosinoojomserposhjxvcsebmibbhsrtsdqvjvnebsqiijzbsjosvybsblnqvrijqd
Gqajtjasjosvjubsvrsainjhbsvybib.sVybibtrib,sybsunhvspqjvstrisvybsobxv
bohnjomshbqhro.sCbvsvybsgibuqvnibsyrnisrtsvybsGblnre’hshqjdjomsyqe,
gbiyqgh,sfbbosariibavdcshbdbavbesfcsQyqf,spjvysqszjbpsvrsvyjhszbic
arugdbxjrosrtsvyjomh.sFbaqnhb,sqosjovbizqdsrtsvyibbsynoeibesqoe
hjxvc-tjzbseqchsqoesojmyvhspqhsfbtribsyju;sqosjovbizqdspyjay,sjohvbqe
rtsjugqvjbovdcsboenijomsqhyrib,sybsprndeshgboesjosqsujhabddqobrnhsynov;
jtsfcsayqoabsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb,shgboejomsyjhszqaqvjrosjoshbqhstqisiburvb
tirusyjhsgbijrejaqdstbbejom-mirnoeh,shyrndesvniosngsyjhspijo dbesfirp
rttsvybsGbihjqosMndt,srisjosvybsFbomqdsFqc,srisAyjoqsHbqh,srisjosqoc
rvybispqvbihsyqnovbesfcsyjhsiqab.sHrsvyqvsUrohrroh,sGqugqh,
Ori’-Pbhvbih,sYqiuqvvqoh,sViqebh;sqocspjoesfnvsvybsDbzqovbisqoesHjurro,
ujmyvsfdrpsUrfcsEja sjovrsvybsebzjrnhswjm-wqmspride-ajiadbsrtsvyb
Gblnre’hsajianuoqzjmqvjomspq b.

Fnvsmiqovjomsqddsvyjh;scbv,sibmqiebesejhaibbvdcsqoesarrddc,shbbuhsjv
orvsfnvsqsuqesjebq,svyjh;svyqvsjosvybsfirqesfrnoedbhhsrabqo,srob
hrdjvqicspyqdb,sbzbosjtsboarnovbibe,shyrndesfbsvyrnmyvsaqgqfdbsrt
joejzjenqdsibarmojvjrostirusyjhsynovbi,sbzbosqhsqspyjvb-fbqiebesUntvj
josvybsvyirombesvyrirnmytqibhsrtsArohvqovjorgdb?sCbh.sTrisvybsgbandjqi
horp-pyjvbsfirpsrtsUrfcsEja ,sqoesyjhshorp-pyjvbsynug,sarndesorvsfnvsfb
noujhvq qfdb.sQoesyqzbsJsorvsvqddjbesvybspyqdb,sQyqfsprndesunvvbisvr
yjuhbdt,sqhsqtvbisgrijomsrzbisyjhsayqivhsvjddsdromsqtvbisujeojmyvsyb
prndesvyirpsyjuhbdtsfqa sjosibzbijbh—vqddjbesyju,sqoeshyqddsybsbhaqgb?
Yjhsfirqestjohsqibsfribe,sqoeshaqddrgbesrnvsdj bsqsdrhvshybbg’hsbqi!
Qoesybib,syjhsuqesujoesprndesinosrosjosqsfibqvydbhhsiqab;svjddsq
pbqijobhhsqoestqjovobhhsrtsgroebijomsaqubsrzbisyju;sqoesjosvybsrgbosqji
rtsvybseba sybsprndeshbb svrsibarzbisyjhshvibomvy.sQy,sMre!spyqv
viqoabhsrtsvriubovhserbhsvyqvsuqosboenibspyrsjhsarohnubespjvysrob
noqayjbzbesibzbombtndsebhjib.sYbshdbbghspjvysadboaybesyqoeh;sqoespq bh
pjvysyjhsrposfdrrecsoqjdhsjosyjhsgqduh.

Rtvbo,spybostriabestirusyjhsyquura sfcsbxyqnhvjomsqoesjovrdbiqfdcszjzje
eibquhsrtsvybsojmyv,spyjay,sibhnujomsyjhsrposjovbohbsvyrnmyvhsvyirnmy
vybseqc,saqiijbesvybusrosqujesqsadqhyjomsrtsgyibohjbh,sqoespyjidbesvybu
irnoesqoesirnoesqoesirnoesjosyjhsfdqwjomsfiqjo,svjddsvybszbicsvyirffjom
rtsyjhsdjtb-hgrvsfbaqubsjohnttbiqfdbsqomnjhy;sqoespybo,sqhspqh
hrubvjubhsvybsaqhb,svybhbshgjijvnqdsvyirbhsjosyjusybqzbesyjhsfbjomsng
tirusjvhsfqhb,sqoesqsayqhushbbubesrgbojomsjosyju,stiruspyjaystri be
tdqubhsqoesdjmyvojomhshyrvsng,sqoesqaanihbestjboehsfba robesyjusvrsdbqg
erposquromsvybu;spybosvyjhsybddsjosyjuhbdtscqpobesfbobqvysyju,sqspjde
aicsprndesfbsybqiesvyirnmysvybshyjg;sqoespjvysmdqijomsbcbhsQyqfsprnde
fnihvstirusyjhshvqvbsirru,sqhsvyrnmysbhaqgjomstirusqsfbesvyqvspqhsro
tjib.sCbvsvybhb,sgbiyqgh,sjohvbqesrtsfbjomsvybsnohnggibhhqfdbshcugvruh
rtshrubsdqvbovspbq obhh,sristijmyvsqvsyjhsrposibhrdzb,spbibsfnvsvyb
gdqjobhvsvr bohsrtsjvhsjovbohjvc.sTri,sqvshnaysvjubh,saiqwcsQyqf,svyb
haybujom,snoqggbqhbedcshvbqetqhvsynovbisrtsvybspyjvbspyqdb;svyjhsQyqf
vyqvsyqesmrobsvrsyjhsyquura ,spqhsorvsvybsqmbovsvyqvshrsaqnhbesyjusvr
fnihvstirusjvsjosyriirisqmqjo.sVybsdqvvbispqhsvybsbvbioqd,sdjzjom
gijoajgdbsrishrndsjosyju;sqoesjoshdbbg,sfbjomstrisvybsvjubsejhhrajqvbe
tirusvybsayqiqavbijwjomsujoe,spyjaysqvsrvybisvjubhsbugdrcbesjvstrisjvh
rnvbiszbyjadbsrisqmbov,sjvshgrovqobrnhdcshrnmyvsbhaqgbstirusvyb
hariayjomsarovjmnjvcsrtsvybstiqovjasvyjom,srtspyjay,strisvybsvjub,sjv
pqhsorsdrombisqosjovbmiqd.sFnvsqhsvybsujoeserbhsorvsbxjhvsnodbhh
dbqmnbespjvysvybshrnd,svybibtribsjvsunhvsyqzbsfbbosvyqv,sjosQyqf’h
aqhb,scjbdejomsngsqddsyjhsvyrnmyvhsqoestqoajbhsvrsyjhsrobshngibub
gnigrhb;svyqvsgnigrhb,sfcsjvhsrposhybbisjozbvbiqacsrtspjdd,striabe
jvhbdtsqmqjohvsmrehsqoesebzjdhsjovrsqs joesrtshbdt-qhhnube,sjoebgboebov
fbjomsrtsjvhsrpo.sOqc,sarndesmijudcsdjzbsqoesfnio,spyjdbsvybsaruuro
zjvqdjvcsvrspyjaysjvspqhsarokrjobe,stdbesyriiri-hvija bostirusvyb
nofjeebosqoesnotqvybibesfjivy.sVybibtrib,svybsvriubovbeshgjijvsvyqv
mdqibesrnvsrtsfrejdcsbcbh,spybospyqvshbbubesQyqfsinhybestirusyjhsirru,
pqhstrisvybsvjubsfnvsqszqaqvbesvyjom,sqstriudbhhshruoqufndjhvjasfbjom,
qsiqcsrtsdjzjomsdjmyv,svrsfbshnib,sfnvspjvyrnvsqosrfkbavsvrsardrni,sqoe
vybibtribsqsfdqo obhhsjosjvhbdt.sMresybdgsvybb,srdesuqo,svycsvyrnmyvh
yqzbsaibqvbesqsaibqvnibsjosvybb;sqoesybspyrhbsjovbohbsvyjo jomsvynh
uq bhsyjusqsGirubvybnh;sqszndvnibstbbehsngrosvyqvsybqivstrisbzbi;svyqv
zndvnibsvybszbicsaibqvnibsybsaibqvbh.


AYQGVBIs45.sVybsQttjeqzjv.

Hrstqisqhspyqvsvybibsuqcsfbsrtsqsoqiiqvjzbsjosvyjhsfrr ;sqoe,sjoebbe,
qhsjoejibavdcsvrnayjomsrobsrisvprszbicsjovbibhvjomsqoesanijrnh
gqivjandqihsjosvybsyqfjvhsrtshgbiuspyqdbh,svybstribmrjomsayqgvbi,sjo
jvhsbqidjbisgqiv,sjhsqhsjugrivqovsqsrobsqhspjddsfbstrnoesjosvyjh
zrdnub;sfnvsvybsdbqejomsuqvvbisrtsjvsiblnjibhsvrsfbshvjddstnivybisqoe
uribstqujdjqidcsbodqimbesngro,sjosriebisvrsfbsqeblnqvbdcsnoebihvrre,
qoesuribrzbisvrsvq bsqpqcsqocsjoaibendjvcspyjaysqsgirtrnoesjmoriqoabsrt
vybsbovjibshnfkbavsuqcsjoenabsjoshrubsujoeh,sqhsvrsvybsoqvniqdszbijvc
rtsvybsuqjosgrjovhsrtsvyjhsqttqji.

Jsaqibsorvsvrsgbitriusvyjhsgqivsrtsucsvqh subvyrejaqddc;sfnvshyqddsfb
arovbovsvrsgirenabsvybsebhjibesjugibhhjrosfcshbgqiqvbsajvqvjrohsrt
jvbuh,sgiqavjaqddcsrisibdjqfdcs orposvrsubsqhsqspyqdbuqo;sqoestiru
vybhbsajvqvjroh,sJsvq bsjv—vybsaroadnhjrosqjubesqvspjddsoqvniqddc
trddrpsrtsjvhbdt.

Tjihv:sJsyqzbsgbihroqddcs orposvyibbsjohvqoabhspybibsqspyqdb,sqtvbi
ibabjzjomsqsyqigrro,syqhsbttbavbesqsarugdbvbsbhaqgb;sqoe,sqtvbisqo
jovbizqds(josrobsjohvqoabsrtsvyibbscbqih),syqhsfbbosqmqjoshvina sfcsvyb
hqubsyqoe,sqoeshdqjo;spybosvybsvprsjiroh,sfrvysuqi besfcsvybshqub
gijzqvbsacgybi,syqzbsfbbosvq bostirusvybsfrec.sJosvybsjohvqoabspybib
vyibbscbqihsjovbizbobesfbvpbbosvybstdjomjomsrtsvybsvprsyqigrroh;sqoesJ
vyjo sjvsuqcsyqzbsfbboshrubvyjomsuribsvyqosvyqv;svybsuqospyrseqivbe
vybusyqggbojom,sjosvybsjovbizqd,svrsmrsjosqsviqejomshyjgsrosqszrcqmbsvr
Qtijaq,spbovsqhyribsvybib,skrjobesqsejharzbicsgqivc,sqoesgbobviqvbestqi
jovrsvybsjovbijri,spybibsybsviqzbddbestrisqsgbijresrtsobqidcsvprscbqih,
rtvbosboeqombibesfcshbigbovh,shqzqmbh,svjmbih,sgrjhrornhsujqhuqh,spjvy
qddsvybsrvybisaruurosgbijdhsjoajebovsvrspqoebijomsjosvybsybqivsrt
no orposibmjroh.sUbqopyjdb,svybspyqdbsybsyqeshvina sunhvsqdhrsyqzbsfbbo
rosjvhsviqzbdh;sorsernfvsjvsyqesvyijabsajianuoqzjmqvbesvybsmdrfb,
finhyjomspjvysjvhstdqo hsqddsvybsarqhvhsrtsQtijaq;sfnvsvrsorsgnigrhb.
Vyjhsuqosqoesvyjhspyqdbsqmqjosaqubsvrmbvybi,sqoesvybsrobszqolnjhybesvyb
rvybi.sJshqcsJ,suchbdt,syqzbs orposvyibbsjohvqoabhshjujdqisvrsvyjh;
vyqvsjhsjosvprsrtsvybusJshqpsvybspyqdbhshvina ;sqoe,sngrosvybshbaroe
qvvqa ,shqpsvybsvprsjirohspjvysvybsibhgbavjzbsuqi hsanvsjosvybu,
qtvbipqiehsvq bostirusvybsebqestjhy.sJosvybsvyibb-cbqisjohvqoab,sjvshr
tbddsrnvsvyqvsJspqhsjosvybsfrqvsfrvysvjubh,stjihvsqoesdqhv,sqoesvyb
dqhvsvjubsejhvjoavdcsibarmojhbesqsgbandjqishrivsrtsynmbsurdbsnoebisvyb
pyqdb’hsbcb,spyjaysJsyqesrfhbizbesvybibsvyibbscbqihsgibzjrnh.sJshqc
vyibbscbqih,sfnvsJsqusgibvvcshnibsjvspqhsuribsvyqosvyqv.sYbibsqibsvyibb
johvqoabh,svybo,spyjaysJsgbihroqddcs orpsvybsvinvysrt;sfnvsJsyqzbsybqie
rtsuqocsrvybisjohvqoabhstirusgbihrohspyrhbszbiqajvcsjosvybsuqvvbisvybib
jhsorsmrresmirnoesvrsjugbqay.

Hbaroedc:sJvsjhspbdds orposjosvybsHgbiusPyqdbsTjhybic,syrpbzbisjmoriqov
vybspridesqhyribsuqcsfbsrtsjv,svyqvsvybibsyqzbsfbboshbzbiqdsuburiqfdb
yjhvrijaqdsjohvqoabhspybibsqsgqivjandqispyqdbsjosvybsrabqosyqhsfbbosqv
ejhvqovsvjubhsqoesgdqabhsgrgndqidcsarmojhqfdb.sPycshnaysqspyqdbsfbaqub
vynhsuqi bespqhsorvsqdvrmbvybisqoesrijmjoqddcsrpjomsvrsyjhsfrejdc
gbandjqijvjbhsqhsejhvjomnjhybestirusrvybispyqdbh;strisyrpbzbisgbandjqi
josvyqvsibhgbavsqocsayqoabspyqdbsuqcsfb,svybcshrrosgnvsqosboesvrsyjh
gbandjqijvjbhsfcs jddjomsyju,sqoesfrjdjomsyjuserposjovrsqsgbandjqidc
zqdnqfdbsrjd.sOr:svybsibqhrospqhsvyjh:svyqvstirusvybstqvqdsbxgbijboabh
rtsvybstjhybicsvybibsynomsqsvbiijfdbsgibhvjmbsrtsgbijdrnhobhhsqfrnv
hnaysqspyqdbsqhsvybibsejesqfrnvsIjoqdersIjoqdejoj,sjohrunaysvyqvsurhv
tjhybiubospbibsarovbovsvrsibarmojhbsyjusfcsubibdcsvrnayjomsvybji
vqigqndjohspybosybsprndesfbsejharzbibesdrnomjomsfcsvybusrosvybshbq,
pjvyrnvshbb jomsvrsandvjzqvbsqsuribsjovjuqvbsqalnqjovqoab.sDj bshrub
grrisebzjdhsqhyribsvyqvsyqggbosvrs orpsqosjiqhajfdbsmibqvsuqo,svybc
uq bsejhvqovsnorfvinhjzbshqdnvqvjrohsvrsyjusjosvybshvibbv,sdbhvsjtsvybc
gnihnbesvybsqalnqjovqoabstnivybi,svybcsujmyvsibabjzbsqshnuuqicsvynug
trisvybjisgibhnugvjro.

Fnvsorvsrodcsejesbqaysrtsvybhbstqurnhspyqdbhsbokrcsmibqvsjoejzjenqd
abdbfijvc—Oqc,scrnsuqcsaqddsjvsqosrabqo-pjebsiborpo;sorvsrodcspqhsyb
tqurnhsjosdjtbsqoesorpsjhsjuurivqdsjostribaqhvdbshvrijbhsqtvbisebqvy,
fnvsybspqhsqeujvvbesjovrsqddsvybsijmyvh,sgijzjdbmbh,sqoesejhvjoavjroh
rtsqsoqub;syqesqhsunaysqsoqubsjoebbesqhsAqufchbhsrisAæhqi.sPqhsjvsorv
hr,sRsVjurisVru!svyrnstqubesdbzjqvyqo,shaqiibesdj bsqosjabfbim,spyrshr
dromseje’hvsdni sjosvybsRijbovqdshviqjvhsrtsvyqvsoqub,spyrhbshgrnvspqh
rtvshbbostirusvybsgqducsfbqaysrtsRufqc?sPqhsjvsorvshr,sRsObpsWbqdqoe
Kqa !svyrnsvbiirisrtsqddsainjhbihsvyqvsairhhbesvybjispq bhsjosvyb
zjajojvcsrtsvybsVqvvrrsDqoe?sPqhsjvsorvshr,sRsUrilnqo!s jomsrtsKqgqo,
pyrhbsdrtvcskbvsvybcshqcsqvsvjubhsqhhnubesvybshbufdqoabsrtsqshorp-pyjvb
airhhsqmqjohvsvybsh c?sPqhsjvsorvshr,sRsErosUjmnbd!svyrnsAyjdjqospyqdb,
uqi besdj bsqosrdesvrivrjhbspjvysuchvjasyjbirmdcgyjahsngrosvybsfqa !sJo
gdqjosgirhb,sybibsqibstrnispyqdbhsqhspbdds orposvrsvybshvnebovhsrt
AbvqabqosYjhvricsqhsUqijnhsrisHcddqsvrsvybsadqhhjashayrdqi.

Fnvsvyjhsjhsorvsqdd.sObpsWbqdqoesVrusqoesErosUjmnbd,sqtvbisqvszqijrnh
vjubhsaibqvjomsmibqvsyqzrasquromsvybsfrqvhsrtsejttbibovszbhhbdh,spbib
tjoqddcsmrobsjoslnbhvsrt,shchvbuqvjaqddcsynovbesrnv,sayqhbesqoes jddbe
fcszqdjqovspyqdjomsaqgvqjoh,spyrsybqzbesngsvybjisqoayrihspjvysvyqv
bxgibhhsrfkbavsqhsunaysjoszjbp,sqhsjoshbvvjomsrnvsvyirnmysvyb
OqiiqmqohbvvsPrreh,sAqgvqjosFnvdbisrtsrdesyqesjvsjosyjhsujoesvrsaqgvnib
vyqvsorvrijrnhsuniebirnhshqzqmbsQooqpro,svybsybqeurhvspqiijrisrtsvyb
Joejqos jomsGyjdjg.

Jsersorvs orpspybibsJsaqostjoesqsfbvvbisgdqabsvyqosknhvsybib,svrsuq b
ubovjrosrtsrobsrisvprsrvybisvyjomh,spyjaysvrsubshbbusjugrivqov,sqhsjo
gijovbestriusbhvqfdjhyjomsjosqddsibhgbavhsvybsibqhroqfdbobhhsrtsvyb
pyrdbshvricsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb,suribsbhgbajqddcsvybsaqvqhvirgyb.sTri
vyjhsjhsrobsrtsvyrhbsejhybqivbojomsjohvqoabhspybibsvinvysiblnjibhstndd
qhsunaysfrdhvbijomsqhsbiiri.sHrsjmoriqovsqibsurhvsdqoehubosrtshrubsrt
vybsgdqjobhvsqoesurhvsgqdgqfdbsproebihsrtsvybspride,svyqvspjvyrnvshrub
yjovhsvrnayjomsvybsgdqjostqavh,syjhvrijaqdsqoesrvybipjhb,srtsvyb
tjhybic,svybcsujmyvsharnvsqvsUrfcsEja sqhsqsurohvirnhstqfdb,srishvjdd
prihbsqoesuribsebvbhvqfdb,sqsyjebrnhsqoesjovrdbiqfdbsqddbmric.

Tjihv:sVyrnmysurhvsubosyqzbshrubszqmnbstdjvvjomsjebqhsrtsvybsmbobiqd
gbijdhsrtsvybsmiqoestjhybic,scbvsvybcsyqzbsorvyjomsdj bsqstjxbe,szjzje
aroabgvjrosrtsvyrhbsgbijdh,sqoesvybstiblnboacspjvyspyjaysvybcsibani.
Robsibqhrosgbiyqghsjh,svyqvsorvsrobsjostjtvcsrtsvybsqavnqdsejhqhvbih
qoesebqvyhsfcsaqhnqdvjbhsjosvybstjhybic,sbzbistjoehsqsgnfdjasibariesqv
yrub,syrpbzbisviqohjbovsqoesjuubejqvbdcstrimrvvbosvyqvsibarie.sErscrn
hnggrhbsvyqvsvyqvsgrristbddrpsvybib,spyrsvyjhsurubovsgbiyqghsaqnmyvsfc
vybspyqdb-djobsrttsvybsarqhvsrtsObpsMnjobq,sjhsfbjomsaqiijbeserposvr
vybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbqsfcsvybshrnoejomsdbzjqvyqo—erscrnshnggrhbsvyqv
vyqvsgrristbddrp’hsoqubspjddsqggbqisjosvybsobphgqgbisrfjvnqicscrnspjdd
ibqesvr-uriirpsqvscrnisfibq tqhv?sOr:sfbaqnhbsvybsuqjdhsqibszbic
jiibmndqisfbvpbbosybibsqoesObpsMnjobq.sJostqav,sejescrnsbzbisybqispyqv
ujmyvsfbsaqddbesibmndqisobphsejibavsrisjoejibavstirusObpsMnjobq?sCbvsJ
vbddscrnsvyqvsngrosrobsgqivjandqiszrcqmbspyjaysJsuqebsvrsvybsGqajtja,
quromsuqocsrvybihspbshgr bsvyjivcsejttbibovshyjgh,sbzbicsrobsrtspyjay
yqesyqesqsebqvysfcsqspyqdb,shrubsrtsvybusuribsvyqosrob,sqoesvyibbsvyqv
yqesbqaysdrhvsqsfrqv’hsaibp.sTrisMre’hshq b,sfbsbarorujaqdspjvyscrni
dqughsqoesaqoedbh!sorvsqsmqddroscrnsfnio,sfnvsqvsdbqhvsrobseirgsrt
uqo’hsfdrrespqhshgjddbestrisjv.

Hbaroedc:sGbrgdbsqhyribsyqzbsjoebbeshrubsjoebtjojvbsjebqsvyqvsqspyqdb
jhsqosboriurnhsaibqvnibsrtsboriurnhsgrpbi;sfnvsJsyqzbsbzbistrnoesvyqv
pybosoqiiqvjomsvrsvybushrubshgbajtjasbxqugdbsrtsvyjhsvpr-trde
boriurnhobhh,svybcsyqzbshjmojtjaqovdcsarugdjubovbesubsngrosuc
tqabvjrnhobhh;spybo,sJsebadqibsngrosucshrnd,sJsyqesorsuribsjebqsrt
fbjomstqabvjrnhsvyqosUrhbh,spybosybspirvbsvybsyjhvricsrtsvybsgdqmnbhsrt
Bmcgv.

FnvstrivnoqvbdcsvybshgbajqdsgrjovsJsybibshbb saqosfbsbhvqfdjhybesngro
vbhvjurocsbovjibdcsjoebgboebovsrtsucsrpo.sVyqvsgrjovsjhsvyjh:sVybsHgbiu
Pyqdbsjhsjoshrubsaqhbhshnttjajbovdcsgrpbitnd,s orpjom,sqoesknejajrnhdc
uqdjajrnh,sqhspjvysejibavsqtribvyrnmyvsvrshvqzbsjo,snvvbidcsebhvirc,
qoeshjo sqsdqimbshyjg;sqoespyqvsjhsurib,svybsHgbiusPyqdbs_yqh_serobsjv.

Tjihv:sJosvybscbqis1820svybshyjgsBhhbx,sAqgvqjosGrddqie,srtsOqovna bv,
pqhsainjhjomsjosvybsGqajtjasRabqo.sRobseqcshybshqpshgrnvh,sdrpbibesybi
frqvh,sqoesmqzbsayqhbsvrsqshyrqdsrtshgbiuspyqdbh.sBibsdrom,shbzbiqdsrt
vybspyqdbhspbibsprnoebe;spybo,shneebodc,sqszbicsdqimbspyqdbsbhaqgjom
tirusvybsfrqvh,sjhhnbestirusvybshyrqd,sqoesfribsejibavdcserposngrosvyb
hyjg.sEqhyjomsyjhstribybqesqmqjohvsybisyndd,sybshrshvrzbsybisjo,svyqv
josdbhhsvyqos“vbosujonvbh”shybshbvvdbeserposqoestbddsrzbi.sOrvsq
hnizjzjomsgdqo srtsybisyqhsfbboshbboshjoab.sQtvbisvybshbzbibhv
bxgrhnib,sgqivsrtsvybsaibpsibqaybesvybsdqoesjosvybjisfrqvh.sFbjom
ibvniobesyrubsqvsdqhv,sAqgvqjosGrddqiesroabsuribshqjdbestrisvybsGqajtja
josaruuqoesrtsqorvybishyjg,sfnvsvybsmrehshyjgpiba besyjusqmqjosngro
no orposira hsqoesfibq bih;strisvybshbaroesvjubsyjhshyjgspqhsnvvbidc
drhv,sqoestrivypjvystrihpbqijomsvybshbq,sybsyqhsobzbisvbugvbesjvshjoab.
QvsvyjhseqcsAqgvqjosGrddqiesjhsqsibhjebovsrtsOqovna bv.sJsyqzbshbbo
RpbosAyqab,spyrspqhsayjbtsuqvbsrtsvybsBhhbxsqvsvybsvjubsrtsvybsviqmbec;
Jsyqzbsibqesyjhsgdqjosqoestqjvytndsoqiiqvjzb;sJsyqzbsarozbihbespjvysyjh
hro;sqoesqddsvyjhspjvyjosqstbpsujdbhsrtsvybshabobsrtsvybsaqvqhvirgyb.*

*VybstrddrpjomsqibsbxviqavhstirusAyqab’hsoqiiqvjzb:s“Bzbicstqavshbbube
vrspqiiqovsubsjosaroadnejomsvyqvsjvspqhsqocvyjomsfnvsayqoabspyjay
ejibavbesyjhsrgbiqvjroh;sybsuqebsvprshbzbiqdsqvvqa hsngrosvybshyjg,sqv
qshyrivsjovbizqdsfbvpbbosvybu,sfrvysrtspyjay,sqaariejomsvrsvybji
ejibavjro,spbibsaqdandqvbesvrsersnhsvybsurhvsjoknic,sfcsfbjomsuqeb
qybqe,sqoesvybibfcsarufjojomsvybshgbbesrtsvybsvprsrfkbavhstrisvyb
hyra ;svrsbttbavspyjay,svybsbxqavsuqoœnzibhspyjaysybsuqebspbib
obabhhqic.sYjhsqhgbavspqhsurhvsyriijfdb,sqoeshnaysqhsjoejaqvbe
ibhbovubovsqoestnic.sYbsaqubsejibavdcstirusvybshyrqdspyjayspbsyqesknhv
fbtribsbovbibe,sqoesjospyjayspbsyqeshvina svyibbsrtsyjhsarugqojroh,sqh
jtstjibespjvysibzbombstrisvybjishnttbijomh.”sQmqjo:s“Qvsqddsbzbovh,svyb
pyrdbsajianuhvqoabhsvq bosvrmbvybi,sqddsyqggbojomsfbtribsucsrposbcbh,
qoesgirenajom,sqvsvybsvjub,sjugibhhjrohsjosucsujoesrtsebajebe,
aqdandqvjomsujhayjbt,srosvybsgqivsrtsvybspyqdbs(uqocsrtspyjay
jugibhhjrohsJsaqoorvsorpsibaqdd),sjoenabsubsvrsfbshqvjhtjbesvyqvsJsqu
ariibavsjosucsrgjojro.”

Ybibsqibsyjhsibtdbavjrohshrubsvjubsqtvbislnjvvjomsvybshyjg,senijomsq
fdqa sojmyvsjosqosrgbosfrqv,spybosqdurhvsebhgqjijomsrtsibqayjomsqoc
yrhgjvqfdbshyrib.s“Vybseqi srabqosqoeshpbddjomspqvbihspbibsorvyjom;svyb
tbqihsrtsfbjomshpqddrpbesngsfcshrubseibqetndsvbugbhv,sriseqhybesngro
yjeebosira h,spjvysqddsvybsrvybisriejoqicshnfkbavhsrtstbqitnd
arovbugdqvjro,shbbubeshaqiabdcsbovjvdbesvrsqsurubov’hsvyrnmyv;svyb
ejhuqdsdrr jomspiba ,sqoes_vybsyriijesqhgbavsqoesibzbombsrtsvybspyqdb_,
pyrddcsbomirhhbesucsibtdbavjroh,snovjdseqcsqmqjosuqebsjvhsqggbqiqoab.”

Josqorvybisgdqab—g.s45,—ybshgbq hsrts“_vybsuchvbijrnhsqoesurivqdsqvvqa 
rtsvybsqojuqd_.”

Hbaroedc:sVybshyjgsNojro,sqdhrsrtsOqovna bv,spqhsjosvybscbqis1807
vrvqddcsdrhvsrttsvybsQwribhsfcsqshjujdqisrohbv,sfnvsvybsqnvybovja
gqivjandqihsrtsvyjhsaqvqhvirgybsJsyqzbsobzbisayqoabesvrsboarnovbi,
vyrnmystirusvybspyqdbsynovbihsJsyqzbsorpsqoesvybosybqiesaqhnqd
qddnhjrohsvrsjv.

Vyjiedc:sHrubsbjmyvbbosrisvpbovcscbqihsqmrsAruureribsK——,svybo
aruuqoejomsqosQubijaqoshdrrg-rt-pqisrtsvybstjihvsadqhh,syqggbobesvrsfb
ejojomspjvysqsgqivcsrtspyqdjomsaqgvqjoh,srosfrqiesqsOqovna bvshyjgsjo
vybsyqifrisrtsRqyn,sHqoepjaysJhdqoeh.sArozbihqvjrosvniojomsngrospyqdbh,
vybsAruureribspqhsgdbqhbesvrsfbshabgvjaqdsvrnayjomsvybsquqwjomshvibomvy
qhaijfbesvrsvybusfcsvybsgirtbhhjroqdsmbovdbubosgibhbov.sYbsgbibugvrijdc
ebojbestrisbxqugdb,svyqvsqocspyqdbsarndeshrshujvbsyjhshvrnv
hdrrg-rt-pqisqhsvrsaqnhbsybisvrsdbq shrsunaysqhsqsvyjufdbtnd.sZbic
mrre;sfnvsvybibsjhsuribsarujom.sHrubspbb hsqtvbi,svybsAruureribshbv
hqjdsjosvyjhsjugibmoqfdbsaiqtvstrisZqdgqiqjhr.sFnvsybspqhshvrggbesro
vybspqcsfcsqsgrivdcshgbiuspyqdb,svyqvsfbmmbesqstbpsurubovh’
arotjebovjqdsfnhjobhhspjvysyju.sVyqvsfnhjobhhsarohjhvbesjostbvayjomsvyb
Aruurerib’hsaiqtvshnaysqsvypqa ,svyqvspjvysqddsyjhsgnughsmrjomsybsuqeb
hviqjmyvstrisvybsobqibhvsgrivsvrsybqzbserposqoesibgqji.sJsqusorv
hngbihvjvjrnh,sfnvsJsarohjebisvybsAruurerib’hsjovbizjbpspjvysvyqvspyqdb
qhsgirzjebovjqd.sPqhsorvsHqndsrtsVqihnhsarozbivbestirusnofbdjbtsfcsq
hjujdqistijmyv?sJsvbddscrn,svybshgbiuspyqdbspjddshvqoesorsorohbohb.

JspjddsorpsibtbiscrnsvrsDqomheritt’hsZrcqmbhstrisqsdjvvdbsajianuhvqoab
josgrjov,sgbandjqidcsjovbibhvjomsvrsvybspijvbisybibrt.sDqomheritt,scrn
unhvs orpsfcsvybspqc,spqhsqvvqaybesvrsvybsInhhjqosQeujiqds inhbohvbio’h
tqurnhsEjharzbicsBxgbejvjrosjosvybsfbmjoojomsrtsvybsgibhbovsabovnic.
AqgvqjosDqomherittsvynhsfbmjohsyjhshbzbovbbovysayqgvbi:

“FcsvybsvyjivbbovysrtsUqcsrnishyjgspqhsibqecsvrshqjd,sqoesvybsobxvseqc
pbspbibsrnvsjosvybsrgboshbq,srosrnispqcsvrsRayrvhy.sVybspbqvybispqh
zbicsadbqisqoestjob,sfnvshrsjovrdbiqfdcsardesvyqvspbspbibsrfdjmbesvr
 bbgsrosrnistnisadrvyjom.sTrishrubseqchspbsyqeszbicsdjvvdbspjoe;sjvspqh
orvsvjddsvybsojobvbbovysvyqvsqsfijh smqdbstirusvybsorivypbhvshgiqomsng.
Qosnoaruurosdqimbspyqdb,svybsfrecsrtspyjayspqhsdqimbisvyqosvybshyjg
jvhbdt,sdqcsqdurhvsqvsvybshnitqabsrtsvybspqvbi,sfnvspqhsorvsgbiabjzbe
fcsqocsrobsrosfrqiesvjddsvybsurubovspybosvybshyjg,spyjayspqhsjostndd
hqjd,spqhsqdurhvsngrosyju,shrsvyqvsjvspqhsjugrhhjfdbsvrsgibzbovsjvh
hvij jomsqmqjohvsyju.sPbspbibsvynhsgdqabesjosvybsurhvsjuujobovseqombi,
qhsvyjhsmjmqovjasaibqvnib,shbvvjomsngsjvhsfqa ,siqjhbesvybshyjgsvyibb
tbbvsqvsdbqhvsrnvsrtsvybspqvbi.sVybsuqhvhsibbdbe,sqoesvybshqjdhstbdd
qdvrmbvybi,spyjdbspbspyrspbibsfbdrpsqddshgiqomsjohvqovdcsngrosvybseba ,
aroadnejomsvyqvspbsyqeshvina sngroshrubsira ;sjohvbqesrtsvyjhspbshqp
vybsurohvbishqjdjomsrttspjvysvybsnvurhvsmiqzjvcsqoeshrdbuojvc.sAqgvqjo
E’Prdtsqggdjbesjuubejqvbdcsvrsvybsgnughsvrsbxqujobspybvybisrisorvsvyb
zbhhbdsyqesibabjzbesqocsequqmbstirusvybshyra ,sfnvspbstrnoesvyqvszbic
yqggjdcsjvsyqesbhaqgbesbovjibdcsnojoknibe.”

Orp,svybsAqgvqjosE’Prdtsybibsqddnebesvrsqhsaruuqoejomsvybshyjgsjo
lnbhvjro,sjhsqsObpsBomdqoebi,spyr,sqtvbisqsdromsdjtbsrtsnonhnqd
qezbovnibhsqhsqshbq-aqgvqjo,svyjhseqcsibhjebhsjosvybszjddqmbsrt
EriaybhvbisobqisFrhvro.sJsyqzbsvybsyrorisrtsfbjomsqsobgybpsrtsyjh.sJ
yqzbsgqivjandqidcslnbhvjrobesyjusaroabiojomsvyjhsgqhhqmbsjosDqomheritt.
Ybshnfhvqovjqvbhsbzbicsprie.sVybshyjg,syrpbzbi,spqhsfcsorsubqohsqsdqimb
rob:sqsInhhjqosaiqtvsfnjdvsrosvybsHjfbijqosarqhv,sqoesgniayqhbesfcsuc
noadbsqtvbisfqivbijomsqpqcsvybszbhhbdsjospyjaysybshqjdbestirusyrub.

Josvyqvsngsqoeserposuqodcsfrr srtsrde-tqhyjrobesqezbovnib,shrstndd,
vrr,srtsyrobhvsproebih—vybszrcqmbsrtsDjrobdsPqtbi,srobsrtsqoajbov
Equgjbi’hsrdesaynuh—Jstrnoesqsdjvvdbsuqvvbishbvserposhrsdj bsvyqvsknhv
lnrvbestirusDqomheritt,svyqvsJsaqoorvstrifbqisjohbivjomsjvsybibstrisq
ariirfriqvjzbsbxqugdb,sjtshnaysfbsobbebe.

Djrobd,sjvshbbuh,spqhsrosyjhspqcsvrs“KryosTbiejoqoer,”sqhsybsaqddhsvyb
urebiosKnqosTbioqoebh.s“Josrnispqcsvyjvybi,”sybshqch,s“qfrnvstrni
r’adra sjosvybsuriojom,spybospbspbibsqfrnvsrobsynoeibesqoestjtvc
dbqmnbhstirusvybsUqjosrtsQubijaq,srnishyjgstbdvsqsvbiijfdbshyra ,spyjay
gnvsrnisubosjoshnaysarohvbioqvjrosvyqvsvybcsarndesyqiedcsvbddspybib
vybcspbibsrispyqvsvrsvyjo ;sfnvsbzbicsrobsfbmqosvrsgibgqibstrisebqvy.
Qoe,sjoebbe,svybshyra spqhshrshneebosqoeszjrdbov,svyqvspbsvrr sjvstri
miqovbesvybshyjgsyqeshvina sqmqjohvsqsira ;sfnvspybosvybsquqwbubovspqh
qsdjvvdbsrzbi,spbsaqhvsvybsdbqe,sqoeshrnoebe,sfnvstrnoesorsmirnoe.s*s*
*s*s*sVybshneeboobhhsrtsvybshyra suqebsvybsmnohsdbqgsjosvybji
aqiijqmbh,sqoeshbzbiqdsrtsvybsubospbibshyq bosrnvsrtsvybjisyquura h.
AqgvqjosEqzjh,spyrsdqcspjvysyjhsybqesrosqsmno,spqhsvyirposrnvsrtsyjh
aqfjo!”sDjrobdsvybosmrbhsrosvrsjugnvbsvybshyra svrsqosbqivylnq b,sqoe
hbbuhsvrshnfhvqovjqvbsvybsjugnvqvjrosfcshvqvjomsvyqvsqsmibqv
bqivylnq b,shrubpybibsqfrnvsvyqvsvjub,sejesqavnqddcsersmibqvsujhayjbt
qdromsvybsHgqojhysdqoe.sFnvsJshyrndesorvsunaysproebisjt,sjosvyb
eqi obhhsrtsvyqvsbqidcsyrnisrtsvybsuriojom,svybshyra spqhsqtvbisqdd
aqnhbesfcsqosnohbbospyqdbszbivjaqddcsfnugjomsvybsynddstirusfbobqvy.

Jsujmyvsgirabbespjvyshbzbiqdsuribsbxqugdbh,srobspqcsrisqorvybis orposvr
ub,srtsvybsmibqvsgrpbisqoesuqdjabsqvsvjubhsrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb.sJosurib
vyqosrobsjohvqoab,sybsyqhsfbbos orpo,sorvsrodcsvrsayqhbsvybsqhhqjdjom
frqvhsfqa svrsvybjishyjgh,sfnvsvrsgnihnbsvybshyjgsjvhbdt,sqoesdrom
pjvyhvqoesqddsvybsdqoabhsynidbesqvsyjustirusjvhseba h.sVybsBomdjhyshyjg
GnhjbsYqddsaqosvbddsqshvricsrosvyqvsybqe;sqoe,sqhstrisyjhshvibomvy,sdbv
ubshqc,svyqvsvybibsyqzbsfbbosbxqugdbhspybibsvybsdjobhsqvvqaybesvrsq
inoojomshgbiuspyqdbsyqzb,sjosqsaqdu,sfbbosviqohtbiibesvrsvybshyjg,sqoe
hbanibesvybib;svybspyqdbsvrpjomsybismibqvsynddsvyirnmysvybspqvbi,sqhsq
yrihbspqd hsrttspjvysqsaqiv.sQmqjo,sjvsjhszbicsrtvbosrfhbizbesvyqv,sjt
vybshgbiuspyqdb,sroabshvina ,sjhsqddrpbesvjubsvrsiqddc,sybsvybosqavh,
orvshrsrtvbospjvysfdjoesiqmb,sqhspjvyspjdtnd,sebdjfbiqvbsebhjmohsrt
ebhvinavjrosvrsyjhsgnihnbih;sorisjhsjvspjvyrnvsarozbcjomshrubsbdrlnbov
joejaqvjrosrtsyjhsayqiqavbi,svyqvsngrosfbjomsqvvqa besybspjdd
tiblnbovdcsrgbosyjhsurnvy,sqoesibvqjosjvsjosvyqvseibqesbxgqohjrostri
hbzbiqdsarohbanvjzbsujonvbh.sFnvsJsunhvsfbsarovbovspjvysrodcsrobsurib
qoesqsaroadnejomsjddnhviqvjro;sqsibuqi qfdbsqoesurhvshjmojtjaqovsrob,
fcspyjayscrnspjddsorvstqjdsvrshbb,svyqvsorvsrodcsjhsvybsurhvsuqizbddrnh
bzbovsjosvyjhsfrr sariirfriqvbesfcsgdqjostqavhsrtsvybsgibhbovseqc,sfnv
vyqvsvybhbsuqizbdhs(dj bsqddsuqizbdh)sqibsubibsibgbvjvjrohsrtsvybsqmbh;
hrsvyqvstrisvybsujddjrovysvjubspbshqcsqubospjvysHrdruro—Zbijdcsvybibsjh
orvyjomsobpsnoebisvybshno.

JosvybshjxvysAyijhvjqosabovnicsdjzbesGirargjnh,sqsAyijhvjqosuqmjhviqvb
rtsArohvqovjorgdb,sjosvybseqchspybosKnhvjojqospqhsBugbirisqoe
Fbdjhqijnhsmbobiqd.sQhsuqocs orp,sybspirvbsvybsyjhvricsrtsyjhsrpo
vjubh,sqspri sbzbicspqcsrtsnoaruuroszqdnb.sFcsvybsfbhvsqnvyrijvjbh,syb
yqhsqdpqchsfbbosarohjebibesqsurhvsvinhvprivycsqoesnobxqmmbiqvjom
yjhvrijqo,sbxabgvsjoshrubsrobsrisvprsgqivjandqih,sorvsqvsqddsqttbavjom
vybsuqvvbisgibhbovdcsvrsfbsubovjrobe.

Orp,sjosvyjhsyjhvricsrtsyjh,sGirargjnhsubovjrohsvyqv,senijomsvybsvbiu
rtsyjhsgibtbavnibsqvsArohvqovjorgdb,sqsmibqvshbq-urohvbispqhsaqgvnibe
josvybsobjmyfrijomsGirgrovjh,srisHbqsrtsUqiuriq,sqtvbisyqzjomsebhvircbe
zbhhbdhsqvsjovbizqdhsjosvyrhbspqvbihstrisqsgbijresrtsuribsvyqostjtvc
cbqih.sQstqavsvynhshbvserposjoshnfhvqovjqdsyjhvricsaqoorvsbqhjdcsfb
mqjohqje.sOrisjhsvybibsqocsibqhrosjvshyrndesfb.sRtspyqvsgibajhbshgbajbh
vyjhshbq-urohvbispqh,sjhsorvsubovjrobe.sFnvsqhsybsebhvircbeshyjgh,sqh
pbddsqhstrisrvybisibqhroh,sybsunhvsyqzbsfbbosqspyqdb;sqoesJsqushviromdc
joadjobesvrsvyjo sqshgbiuspyqdb.sQoesJspjddsvbddscrnspyc.sTrisqsdrom
vjubsJstqoajbesvyqvsvybshgbiuspyqdbsyqesfbbosqdpqchsno orposjosvyb
Ubejvbiiqobqosqoesvybsebbgspqvbihsaroobavjomspjvysjv.sBzbosorpsJsqu
abivqjosvyqvsvyrhbshbqhsqibsorv,sqoesgbiyqghsobzbisaqosfb,sjosvyb
gibhbovsarohvjvnvjrosrtsvyjomh,sqsgdqabstrisyjhsyqfjvnqdsmibmqijrnh
ibhriv.sFnvstnivybisjozbhvjmqvjrohsyqzbsibabovdcsgirzbesvrsub,svyqvsjo
urebiosvjubhsvybibsyqzbsfbbosjhrdqvbesjohvqoabhsrtsvybsgibhboabsrtsvyb
hgbiuspyqdbsjosvybsUbejvbiiqobqo.sJsqusvrde,srosmrresqnvyrijvc,svyqvsro
vybsFqifqicsarqhv,sqsAruureribsEqzjhsrtsvybsFijvjhysoqzcstrnoesvyb
h bdbvrosrtsqshgbiuspyqdb.sOrp,sqhsqszbhhbdsrtspqisibqejdcsgqhhbh
vyirnmysvybsEqieqobddbh,syboabsqshgbiuspyqdbsarnde,sfcsvybshqubsirnvb,
gqhhsrnvsrtsvybsUbejvbiiqobqosjovrsvybsGirgrovjh.

JosvybsGirgrovjh,sqhstqisqhsJsaqosdbqio,sorobsrtsvyqvsgbandjqi
hnfhvqoabsaqddbes_fijv_sjhsvrsfbstrnoe,svybsqdjubovsrtsvybsijmyvspyqdb.
FnvsJsyqzbsbzbicsibqhrosvrsfbdjbzbsvyqvsvybstrresrtsvybshgbiu
pyqdb—hlnjesrisanvvdb-tjhy—dni hsqvsvybsfrvvrusrtsvyqvshbq,sfbaqnhb
dqimbsaibqvnibh,sfnvsfcsorsubqohsvybsdqimbhvsrtsvyqvshriv,syqzbsfbbo
trnoesqvsjvhshnitqab.sJt,svybo,scrnsgirgbidcsgnvsvybhbshvqvbubovh
vrmbvybi,sqoesibqhrosngrosvybusqsfjv,scrnspjddsadbqidcsgbiabjzbsvyqv,
qaariejomsvrsqddsynuqosibqhrojom,sGirargjnh’hshbq-urohvbi,svyqvstri
yqdtsqsabovnicshvrzbsvybshyjghsrtsqsIruqosBugbiri,sunhvsjosqdd
girfqfjdjvcsyqzbsfbbosqshgbiuspyqdb.


AYQGVBIs46.sHniujhbh.

Vyrnmy,sarohnubespjvysvybsyrvstjibsrtsyjhsgnigrhb,sQyqfsjosqddsyjh
vyrnmyvhsqoesqavjrohsbzbisyqesjoszjbpsvybsndvjuqvbsaqgvnibsrtsUrfc
Eja ;svyrnmysybshbbubesibqecsvrshqaijtjabsqddsurivqdsjovbibhvhsvrsvyqv
robsgqhhjro;sobzbivybdbhhsjvsuqcsyqzbsfbbosvyqvsybspqhsfcsoqvnibsqoe
dromsyqfjvnqvjrostqisvrrspbeebesvrsqstjbicspyqdbuqo’hspqch,sqdvrmbvybi
vrsqfqoerosvybsarddqvbiqdsgirhbanvjrosrtsvybszrcqmb.sRisqvsdbqhvsjt
vyjhspbibsrvybipjhb,svybibspbibsorvspqovjomsrvybisurvjzbhsunaysurib
jotdnbovjqdspjvysyju.sJvsprndesfbsibtjojomsvrrsunay,sgbiyqgh,sbzbo
arohjebijomsyjhsuroruqojq,svrsyjovsvyqvsyjhszjoejavjzbobhhsvrpqiehsvyb
PyjvbsPyqdbsujmyvsyqzbsgrhhjfdcsbxvboebesjvhbdtsjoshrubsebmibbsvrsqdd
hgbiuspyqdbh,sqoesvyqvsvybsuribsurohvbihsybshdbpsfcshrsunaysvybsuribsyb
undvjgdjbesvybsayqoabhsvyqvsbqayshnfhblnbovdcsboarnovbibespyqdbsprnde
girzbsvrsfbsvybsyqvbesrobsybsynovbe.sFnvsjtshnaysqosycgrvybhjhsfb
joebbesbxabgvjroqfdb,svybibspbibshvjddsqeejvjroqdsarohjebiqvjrohspyjay,
vyrnmysorvshrshvijavdcsqaariejomspjvysvybspjdeobhhsrtsyjhsindjom
gqhhjro,scbvspbibsfcsorsubqohsjoaqgqfdbsrtshpqcjomsyju.

VrsqaarugdjhysyjhsrfkbavsQyqfsunhvsnhbsvrrdh;sqoesrtsqddsvrrdhsnhbesjo
vybshyqerpsrtsvybsurro,subosqibsurhvsqgvsvrsmbvsrnvsrtsriebi.sYbs obp,
trisbxqugdb,svyqvsyrpbzbisuqmobvjasyjhsqhaboeboacsjoshrubsibhgbavhspqh
rzbisHvqifna ,scbvsvyqvsqhaboeboacsejesorvsarzbisvybsarugdbvbshgjijvnqd
uqosqocsuribsvyqosubibsarigribqdshngbijrijvcsjozrdzbhsjovbddbavnqd
uqhvbihyjg;strisvrsvybsgnibdcshgjijvnqd,svybsjovbddbavnqdsfnvshvqoesjo
qshrivsrtsarigribqdsibdqvjro.sHvqifna ’hsfrecsqoesHvqifna ’hsarbiabe
pjddspbibsQyqf’h,shrsdromsqhsQyqfs bgvsyjhsuqmobvsqvsHvqifna ’hsfiqjo;
hvjddsybs obpsvyqvstrisqddsvyjhsvybsayjbtsuqvb,sjosyjhshrnd,sqfyriibe
yjhsaqgvqjo’hslnbhv,sqoesarndesyb,sprndeskrctnddcsejhjovbmiqvbsyjuhbdt
tirusjv,srisbzbostinhviqvbsjv.sJvsujmyvsfbsvyqvsqsdromsjovbizqdsprnde
bdqghbsbibsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbspqhshbbo.sEnijomsvyqvsdromsjovbizqdsHvqifna 
prndesbzbisfbsqgvsvrstqddsjovrsrgbosibdqghbhsrtsibfbddjrosqmqjohvsyjh
aqgvqjo’hsdbqebihyjg,snodbhhshrubsriejoqic,sginebovjqd,sajianuhvqovjqd
jotdnboabhspbibsfirnmyvsvrsfbqisngrosyju.sOrvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvsvybshnfvdb
johqojvcsrtsQyqfsibhgbavjomsUrfcsEja spqhsorpqchsuribshjmojtjaqovdc
uqojtbhvbesvyqosjosyjhshngbidqvjzbshbohbsqoeshyibpeobhhsjostribhbbjom
vyqv,strisvybsgibhbov,svybsynovshyrndesjoshrubspqcsfbshvijggbesrtsvyqv
hviqombsjuqmjoqvjzbsjugjrnhobhhspyjaysoqvniqddcsjozbhvbesjv;svyqvsvyb
tnddsvbiirisrtsvybszrcqmbsunhvsfbs bgvspjvyeiqposjovrsvybsrfhanib
fqa mirnoes(tristbpsubo’hsarniqmbsjhsgirrtsqmqjohvsgirviqavbe
ubejvqvjrosnoibdjbzbesfcsqavjro);svyqvspybosvybcshvrresvybjisdromsojmyv
pqvaybh,syjhsrttjabihsqoesubosunhvsyqzbshrubsobqibisvyjomhsvrsvyjo srt
vyqosUrfcsEja .sTrisyrpbzbisbqmbidcsqoesjugbvnrnhdcsvybshqzqmbsaibpsyqe
yqjdbesvybsqoornoabubovsrtsyjhslnbhv;scbvsqddshqjdrihsrtsqddshrivhsqib
uribsrisdbhhsaqgijajrnhsqoesnoibdjqfdb—vybcsdjzbsjosvybszqicjomsrnvbi
pbqvybi,sqoesvybcsjoyqdbsjvhstja dbobhh—qoespybosibvqjobestrisqoc
rfkbavsiburvbsqoesfdqo sjosvybsgnihnjv,syrpbzbisgirujhhricsrtsdjtbsqoe
gqhhjrosjosvybsboe,sjvsjhsqfrzbsqddsvyjomhsiblnjhjvbsvyqvsvbugriqic
jovbibhvhsqoesbugdrcubovhshyrndesjovbizbobsqoesyrdesvybusybqdvyjdc
hnhgboebestrisvybstjoqdseqhy.

OrispqhsQyqfsnoujoetndsrtsqorvybisvyjom.sJosvjubhsrtshviromsburvjro
uqo joesejheqjosqddsfqhbsarohjebiqvjroh;sfnvshnaysvjubhsqibsbzqobhabov.
Vybsgbiuqobovsarohvjvnvjroqdsaroejvjrosrtsvybsuqontqavnibesuqo,svyrnmyv
Qyqf,sjhshriejeobhh.sMiqovjomsvyqvsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbstnddcsjoajvbhsvyb
ybqivhsrtsvyjhsucshqzqmbsaibp,sqoesgdqcjomsirnoesvybjishqzqmbobhhsbzbo
fibbehsqsabivqjosmbobirnhs ojmyv-biiqovjhusjosvybu,shvjdd,spyjdbstri
vybsdrzbsrtsjvsvybcsmjzbsayqhbsvrsUrfcsEja ,svybcsunhvsqdhrsyqzbstrre
trisvybjisuribsaruuro,seqjdcsqggbvjvbh.sTrisbzbosvybsyjmysdjtvbesqoe
ayjzqdijasAinhqebihsrtsrdesvjubhspbibsorvsarovbovsvrsviqzbihbsvpr
vyrnhqoesujdbhsrtsdqoesvrstjmyvstrisvybjisyrdcshbgndayib,spjvyrnv
aruujvvjomsfnimdqijbh,sgja jomsgra bvh,sqoesmqjojomsrvybisgjrnh
gbilnjhjvbhsfcsvybspqc.sYqesvybcsfbboshvijavdcsybdesvrsvybjisrobstjoqd
qoesiruqovjasrfkbav—vyqvstjoqdsqoesiruqovjasrfkbav,svrrsuqocsprndesyqzb
vniobestirusjosejhmnhv.sJspjddsorvshvijgsvybhbsubo,svyrnmyvsQyqf,srt
qddsyrgbhsrtsaqhy—qcb,saqhy.sVybcsuqcshariosaqhysorp;sfnvsdbvshrub
urovyhsmrsfc,sqoesorsgbihgbavjzbsgirujhbsrtsjvsvrsvybu,sqoesvybosvyjh
hqubslnjbhabovsaqhysqddsqvsroabsunvjocjomsjosvybu,svyjhshqubsaqhysprnde
hrrosaqhyjbisQyqf.

Orispqhsvybibspqovjomshvjddsqorvybisgibaqnvjroqicsurvjzbsuribsibdqvbe
vrsQyqfsgbihroqddc.sYqzjomsjugndhjzbdc,sjvsjhsgirfqfdb,sqoesgbiyqgh
hrubpyqvsgibuqvnibdcsibzbqdbesvybsgijubsfnvsgijzqvbsgnigrhbsrtsvyb
Gblnre’hszrcqmb,sQyqfspqhsorpsbovjibdcsarohajrnhsvyqv,sjoshrserjom,syb
yqesjoejibavdcsdqjesyjuhbdtsrgbosvrsvybsnoqohpbiqfdbsayqimbsrt
nhnigqvjro;sqoespjvysgbitbavsjugnojvc,sfrvysuriqdsqoesdbmqd,syjhsaibp
jtshrsejhgrhbe,sqoesvrsvyqvsboesarugbvbov,sarndesibtnhbsqddstnivybi
rfbejboabsvrsyju,sqoesbzboszjrdbovdcspibhvstirusyjusvybsaruuqoe.sTiru
bzbosvybsfqibdcsyjovbesjugnvqvjrosrtsnhnigqvjro,sqoesvybsgrhhjfdb
arohblnboabhsrtshnaysqshnggibhhbesjugibhhjrosmqjojomsmirnoe,sQyqfsunhv
rtsarnihbsyqzbsfbbosurhvsqoxjrnhsvrsgirvbavsyjuhbdt.sVyqvsgirvbavjro
arndesrodcsarohjhvsjosyjhsrposgiberujoqvjomsfiqjosqoesybqivsqoesyqoe,
fqa besfcsqsybbetnd,sadrhbdcsaqdandqvjomsqvvbovjrosvrsbzbicsujonvb
qvurhgybijasjotdnboabspyjaysjvspqhsgrhhjfdbstrisyjhsaibpsvrsfb
hnfkbavbesvr.

Trisqddsvybhbsibqhrohsvybo,sqoesrvybihsgbiyqghsvrrsqoqdcvjasvrsfb
zbifqddcsebzbdrgbesybib,sQyqfsgdqjodcshqpsvyqvsybsunhvshvjddsjosqsmrre
ebmibbsarovjonbsvinbsvrsvybsoqvniqd,sorujoqdsgnigrhbsrtsvybsGblnre’h
zrcqmb;srfhbizbsqddsanhvruqicsnhqmbh;sqoesorvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvstriab
yjuhbdtsvrsbzjoabsqddsyjhspbdds orposgqhhjroqvbsjovbibhvsjosvybsmbobiqd
gnihnjvsrtsyjhsgirtbhhjro.

Fbsqddsvyjhsqhsjvsuqc,syjhszrjabspqhsorpsrtvbosybqiesyqjdjomsvybsvyibb
uqhv-ybqehsqoesqeurojhyjomsvybusvrs bbgsqsfijmyvsdrr -rnv,sqoesorvsrujv
ibgrivjomsbzbosqsgrigrjhb.sVyjhszjmjdqoabspqhsorvsdromspjvyrnvsibpqie.


AYQGVBIs47.sVybsUqv-Uq bi.

Jvspqhsqsadrnec,shndvicsqtvbiorro;svybshbqubospbibsdqwjdcsdrnomjom
qfrnvsvybseba h,sriszqaqovdcsmqwjomsrzbisjovrsvybsdbqe-ardrnibespqvbih.
LnbblnbmsqoesJspbibsujdedcsbugdrcbespbqzjomspyqvsjhsaqddbesqshprie-uqv,
trisqosqeejvjroqdsdqhyjomsvrsrnisfrqv.sHrshvjddsqoeshnfenbesqoescbv
hrubyrpsgibdnejomspqhsqddsvybshabob,sqoeshnaysqosjoaqovqvjrosrtsibzbijb
dni besjosvybsqji,svyqvsbqayshjdbovshqjdrishbbubesibhrdzbesjovrsyjhsrpo
jozjhjfdbshbdt.

JspqhsvybsqvvboeqovsrisgqmbsrtsLnbblnbm,spyjdbsfnhcsqvsvybsuqv.sQhsJ
 bgvsgqhhjomsqoesibgqhhjomsvybstjddjomsrisprrtsrtsuqidjobsfbvpbbosvyb
dromscqiohsrtsvybspqig,snhjomsucsrposyqoestrisvybshynvvdb,sqoesqh
Lnbblnbm,shvqoejomshjebpqch,sbzbisqoesqoroshdjesyjhsybqzcsrq boshprie
fbvpbbosvybsvyibqeh,sqoesjedcsdrr jomsrttsngrosvybspqvbi,saqibdbhhdc
qoesnovyjo jomdcseirzbsyrubsbzbicscqio:sJshqcshrshviqombsqseibqujobhh
ejesvybibsvybosibjmosqddsrzbisvybshyjgsqoesqddsrzbisvybshbq,srodc
fir bosfcsvybsjovbiujvvjomsenddshrnoesrtsvybshprie,svyqvsjvshbbubesqh
jtsvyjhspbibsvybsDrrusrtsVjub,sqoesJsuchbdtspbibsqshynvvdbsubayqojaqddc
pbqzjomsqoespbqzjomsqpqcsqvsvybsTqvbh.sVybibsdqcsvybstjxbesvyibqehsrt
vybspqigshnfkbavsvrsfnvsrobshjomdb,sbzbisibvniojom,snoayqomjom
zjfiqvjro,sqoesvyqvszjfiqvjrosubibdcsbornmysvrsqeujvsrtsvybsairhhpjhb
jovbifdboejomsrtsrvybisvyibqehspjvysjvhsrpo.sVyjhspqigshbbube
obabhhjvc;sqoesybib,svyrnmyvsJ,spjvysucsrposyqoesJsgdcsucsrposhynvvdb
qoespbqzbsucsrposebhvjocsjovrsvybhbsnoqdvbiqfdbsvyibqeh.sUbqovjub,
Lnbblnbm’hsjugndhjzb,sjoejttbibovshprie,shrubvjubhsyjvvjomsvybsprrt
hdqovjomdc,srisairr bedc,srishviromdc,srispbq dc,sqhsvybsaqhbsujmyvsfb;
qoesfcsvyjhsejttbiboabsjosvybsaroadnejomsfdrpsgirenajomsqsariibhgroejom
aroviqhvsjosvybstjoqdsqhgbavsrtsvybsarugdbvbestqfija;svyjhshqzqmb’h
hprie,svyrnmyvsJ,spyjaysvynhstjoqddcshyqgbhsqoestqhyjrohsfrvyspqigsqoe
prrt;svyjhsbqhc,sjoejttbibovshpriesunhvsfbsayqoab—qcb,sayqoab,stibb
pjdd,sqoesobabhhjvc—orpjhbsjoarugqvjfdb—qddsjovbipbqzjomdcspri jom
vrmbvybi.sVybshviqjmyvspqigsrtsobabhhjvc,sorvsvrsfbshpbizbestirusjvh
ndvjuqvbsarnihb—jvhsbzbicsqdvbioqvjomszjfiqvjro,sjoebbe,srodcsvboejom
vrsvyqv;stibbspjddshvjddstibbsvrsgdcsybishynvvdbsfbvpbbosmjzbosvyibqeh;
qoesayqoab,svyrnmysibhviqjobesjosjvhsgdqcspjvyjosvybsijmyvsdjobhsrt
obabhhjvc,sqoeshjebpqchsjosjvhsurvjrohsejibavbesfcstibbspjdd,svyrnmy
vynhsgibhaijfbesvrsfcsfrvy,sayqoabsfcsvniohsindbhsbjvybi,sqoesyqhsvyb
dqhvstbqvnijomsfdrpsqvsbzbovh.

VynhspbspbibspbqzjomsqoespbqzjomsqpqcspybosJshvqivbesqvsqshrnoeshr
hviqomb,sdromseiqpo,sqoesunhjaqddcspjdesqoesnobqivydc,svyqvsvybsfqddsrt
tibbspjddseirggbestirusucsyqoe,sqoesJshvrresmqwjomsngsqvsvybsadrneh
pyboabsvyqvszrjabseirggbesdj bsqspjom.sYjmysqdrtvsjosvybsairhh-vibbh
pqhsvyqvsuqesMqc-Ybqebi,sVqhyvbmr.sYjhsfrecspqhsibqayjomsbqmbidc
tripqie,syjhsyqoeshvibvaybesrnvsdj bsqspqoe,sqoesqvsfijbtshneebo
jovbizqdhsybsarovjonbesyjhsaijbh.sVrsfbshnibsvybshqubshrnoespqhsvyqv
zbicsurubovsgbiyqghsfbjomsybqiesqddsrzbisvybshbqh,stirusynoeibehsrt
pyqdbubo’hsdrr -rnvhsgbiaybesqhsyjmysjosvybsqji;sfnvstirustbpsrtsvyrhb
dnomhsarndesvyqvsqaanhvrubesrdesaicsyqzbsebijzbeshnaysqsuqizbddrnh
aqeboabsqhstirusVqhyvbmrsvybsJoejqo’h.

Qhsybshvrresyrzbijomsrzbiscrnsyqdtshnhgboebesjosqji,shrspjdedcsqoe
bqmbidcsgbbijomsvrpqiehsvybsyrijwro,scrnsprndesyqzbsvyrnmyvsyjushrub
girgybvsrishbbisfbyrdejomsvybshyqerphsrtsTqvb,sqoesfcsvyrhbspjdesaijbh
qoornoajomsvybjisarujom.

“Vybibshybsfdrph!svybib!svybib!svybib!shybsfdrph!shybsfdrph!”

“Pybib-qpqc?”

“Rosvybsdbb-fbqu,sqfrnvsvprsujdbhsrtt!sqshayrrdsrtsvybu!”

Johvqovdcsqddspqhsaruurvjro.

VybsHgbiusPyqdbsfdrphsqhsqsadra svja h,spjvysvybshqubsnoebzjqvjomsqoe
ibdjqfdbsnojtriujvc.sQoesvybibfcspyqdbubosejhvjomnjhysvyjhstjhystiru
rvybisvijfbhsrtsyjhsmbonh.

“Vybibsmrstdn bh!”spqhsorpsvybsaicstirusVqhyvbmr;sqoesvybspyqdbh
ejhqggbqibe.

“Lnja ,shvbpqie!”saijbesQyqf.s“Vjub!svjub!”

Ernmy-Frcsyniijbesfbdrp,smdqoabesqvsvybspqvay,sqoesibgrivbesvybsbxqav
ujonvbsvrsQyqf.

Vybshyjgspqhsorps bgvsqpqcstirusvybspjoe,sqoeshybspbovsmbovdcsirddjom
fbtribsjv.sVqhyvbmrsibgrivjomsvyqvsvybspyqdbhsyqesmrobserposybqejomsvr
dbbpqie,spbsarotjebovdcsdrr besvrshbbsvybusqmqjosejibavdcsjosqezqoabsrt
rnisfrph.sTrisvyqvshjomndqisaiqtvsqvsvjubhsbzjoabesfcsvybsHgbiusPyqdb
pybo,shrnoejomspjvysyjhsybqesjosrobsejibavjro,sybsobzbivybdbhh,spyjdb
aroabqdbesfbobqvysvybshnitqab,sujddhsirnoe,sqoeshpjtvdcshpjuhsrttsjo
vybsrggrhjvbslnqivbi—vyjhsebabjvtndobhhsrtsyjhsarndesorvsorpsfbsjo
qavjro;strisvybibspqhsorsibqhrosvrshnggrhbsvyqvsvybstjhyshbbosfc
Vqhyvbmrsyqesfbbosjosqocspqcsqdqiube,srisjoebbes obpsqvsqddsrtsrni
zjajojvc.sRobsrtsvybsuboshbdbavbestrishyjg bbgbih—vyqvsjh,svyrhbsorv
qggrjovbesvrsvybsfrqvh,sfcsvyjhsvjubsibdjbzbesvybsJoejqosqvsvyb
uqjo-uqhvsybqe.sVybshqjdrihsqvsvybstribsqoesujwwbosyqesarubserpo;svyb
djobsvnfhspbibstjxbesjosvybjisgdqabh;svybsaiqobhspbibsvyinhvsrnv;svyb
uqjocqiespqhsfqa be,sqoesvybsvyibbsfrqvhshpnomsrzbisvybshbqsdj bsvyibb
hqugyjibsfqh bvhsrzbisyjmysadjtth.sRnvhjebsrtsvybsfndpqi hsvybjisbqmbi
aibphspjvysrobsyqoesadnomsvrsvybsiqjd,spyjdbsrobstrrvspqhsbxgbavqovdc
grjhbesrosvybsmnopqdb.sHrsdrr svybsdromsdjobsrtsuqo-rt-pqi’hsubosqfrnv
vrsvyirpsvybuhbdzbhsrosfrqiesqosbobuc’hshyjg.

Fnvsqvsvyjhsaijvjaqdsjohvqovsqshneebosbxadquqvjrospqhsybqiesvyqvsvrr 
bzbicsbcbstirusvybspyqdb.sPjvysqshvqivsqddsmdqibesqvseqi sQyqf,spyrspqh
hniirnoebesfcstjzbsenh csgyqovruhsvyqvshbbubestibhystriubesrnvsrtsqji.


AYQGVBIs48.sVybsTjihvsDrpbijom.

Vybsgyqovruh,strishrsvybcsvyboshbbube,spbibstdjvvjomsrosvybsrvybishjeb
rtsvybseba ,sqoe,spjvysqsorjhbdbhhsabdbijvc,spbibsaqhvjomsdrrhbsvyb
vqa dbhsqoesfqoehsrtsvybsfrqvspyjayshpnomsvybib.sVyjhsfrqvsyqesqdpqch
fbbosebbubesrobsrtsvybshgqibsfrqvh,svyrnmysvbayojaqddcsaqddbesvyb
aqgvqjo’h,srosqaarnovsrtsjvhsyqomjomstirusvybshvqifrqieslnqivbi.sVyb
tjmnibsvyqvsorpshvrresfcsjvhsfrphspqhsvqddsqoeshpqiv,spjvysrobspyjvb
vrrvysbzjddcsgirvinejomstirusjvhshvbbd-dj bsdjgh.sQsinugdbesAyjobhb
kqa bvsrtsfdqa sarvvrostnobibqddcsjozbhvbesyju,spjvyspjebsfdqa 
virphbihsrtsvybshqubseqi shvntt.sFnvshviqombdcsairpojomsvyjhsbfroobhh
pqhsqsmdjhvbojomspyjvbsgdqjvbesvnifqo,svybsdjzjomsyqjisfiqjebesqoe
arjdbesirnoesqoesirnoesngrosyjhsybqe.sDbhhshpqivsjosqhgbav,svyb
arugqojrohsrtsvyjhstjmnibspbibsrtsvyqvszjzje,svjmbi-cbddrpsarugdbxjro
gbandjqisvrshrubsrtsvybsqfrijmjoqdsoqvjzbhsrtsvybsUqojddqh;—qsiqab
orvrijrnhstrisqsabivqjosejqfrdjhusrtshnfvjdvc,sqoesfcshrubsyrobhvspyjvb
uqijobihshnggrhbesvrsfbsvybsgqjeshgjbhsqoeshbaibvsarotjebovjqdsqmbovh
rosvybspqvbisrtsvybsebzjd,svybjisdrie,spyrhbsarnovjom-irrusvybcshnggrhb
vrsfbsbdhbpybib.

Pyjdbscbvsvybsproebijomshyjg’hsarugqocspbibsmqwjomsngrosvybhb
hviqombih,sQyqfsaijbesrnvsvrsvybspyjvb-vnifqobesrdesuqosqvsvybjisybqe,
“Qddsibqecsvybib,sTbeqddqy?”

“Ibqec,”spqhsvybsyqdt-yjhhbesibgdc.

“Drpbisqpqcsvybo;se’cbsybqi?”shyrnvjomsqairhhsvybseba .s“Drpbisqpqc
vybib,sJshqc.”

Hnayspqhsvybsvynoebisrtsyjhszrjab,svyqvshgjvbsrtsvybjisquqwbubovsvyb
uboshgiqomsrzbisvybsiqjd;svybshybqzbhspyjidbesirnoesjosvybsfdra h;spjvy
qspqddrp,svybsvyibbsfrqvhseirggbesjovrsvybshbq;spyjdb,spjvysq
ebxvbirnh,srtt-yqoebeseqijom,sno orposjosqocsrvybiszraqvjro,svyb
hqjdrih,smrqv-dj b,sdbqgbeserposvybsirddjomshyjg’hshjebsjovrsvybsvrhhbe
frqvhsfbdrp.

Yqiedcsyqesvybcsgnddbesrnvstirusnoebisvybshyjg’hsdbb,spybosqstrnivy
 bbd,sarujomstirusvybspjoepqieshjeb,sgnddbesirnoesnoebisvybshvbio,sqoe
hyrpbesvybstjzbshviqombihsirpjomsQyqf,spyr,shvqoejomsbibavsjosvyb
hvbio,sdrnedcsyqjdbesHvqifna ,sHvnff,sqoesTdqh ,svrshgibqesvybuhbdzbh
pjebdc,shrsqhsvrsarzbisqsdqimbsbxgqohbsrtspqvbi.sFnvspjvysqddsvybji
bcbhsqmqjosijzbvbesngrosvybshpqivsTbeqddqysqoesyjhsaibp,svybsjouqvbhsrt
vybsrvybisfrqvhsrfbcbesorvsvybsaruuqoe.

“AqgvqjosQyqf?—”shqjesHvqifna .

“Hgibqescrnihbdzbh,”saijbesQyqf;s“mjzbspqc,sqddstrnisfrqvh.sVyrn,
Tdqh ,sgnddsrnvsuribsvrsdbbpqie!”

“Qcb,sqcb,shji,”saybbijdcsaijbesdjvvdbs jom-Grhv,shpbbgjomsirnoesyjh
mibqvshvbbijomsrqi.s“Dqcsfqa !”sqeeibhhjomsyjhsaibp.
“Vybib!—vybib!—vybibsqmqjo!sVybibshybsfdrphsijmyvsqybqe,sfrch!—dqc
fqa !”

“Obzbisybbescroebiscbddrpsfrch,sQiayc.”

“Ry,sJsero’vsujoes’bu,shji,”shqjesQiayc;s“Js obpsjvsqddsfbtribsorp.
Ejeo’vsJsybqis’busjosvybsyrde?sQoesejeo’vsJsvbddsAqfqarsybibsrtsjv?
Pyqvshqcscb,sAqfqar?sVybcsqibshvrpqpqch,sUi.sTdqh .”

“Gndd,sgndd,sucstjobsybqivh-qdjzb;sgndd,sucsayjdeibo;sgndd,sucsdjvvdb
robh,”seiqpdjomdcsqoeshrrvyjomdcshjmybesHvnffsvrsyjhsaibp,shrubsrtspyru
hvjddshyrpbeshjmohsrtsnobqhjobhh.s“Pycsero’vscrnsfibq scrnisfqa frobh,
ucsfrch?sPyqvsjhsjvscrnshvqibsqv?sVyrhbsayqghsjoscroebisfrqv?sVnv!sVybc
qibsrodcstjzbsuribsyqoehsarubsvrsybdgsnh—obzbisujoestiruspybib—vybsurib
vybsubiijbi.sGndd,svybo,sersgndd;sobzbisujoesvybsfijuhvrob—ebzjdhsqib
mrrestbddrphsbornmy.sHr,shr;svybibscrnsqibsorp;svyqv’hsvybshvir bstrisq
vyrnhqoesgrnoeh;svyqv’hsvybshvir bsvrshpbbgsvybshvq bh!sYniiqystrisvyb
mrdesangsrtshgbiusrjd,sucsybirbh!sVyibbsaybbih,subo—qddsybqivhsqdjzb!
Bqhc,sbqhc;sero’vsfbsjosqsyniic—ero’vsfbsjosqsyniic.sPycsero’vscrnshoqg
crnisrqih,scrnsiqhaqdh?sFjvbshrubvyjom,scrnsermh!sHr,shr,shr,
vybo:—hrtvdc,shrtvdc!sVyqv’hsjv—vyqv’hsjv!sdromsqoeshvirom.sMjzbspqc
vybib,smjzbspqc!sVybsebzjdstbvayscb,scbsiqmqunttjosiqghaqddjroh;scbsqib
qddsqhdbbg.sHvrgshorijom,scbshdbbgbih,sqoesgndd.sGndd,spjddscb?sgndd,
aqo’vscb?sgndd,spro’vscb?sPycsjosvybsoqubsrtsmnembrohsqoesmjombi-aq bh
ero’vscbsgndd?—gnddsqoesfibq shrubvyjom!sgndd,sqoeshvqivscrnisbcbhsrnv!
Ybib!”spyjggjomsrnvsvybshyqigs ojtbstirusyjhsmjiedb;s“bzbicsurvybi’h
hrosrtscbseiqpsyjhs ojtb,sqoesgnddspjvysvybsfdqebsfbvpbbosyjhsvbbvy.
Vyqv’hsjv—vyqv’hsjv.sOrpscbsershrubvyjom;svyqvsdrr hsdj bsjv,suc
hvbbd-fjvh.sHvqivsybi—hvqivsybi,sucshjdzbi-hgrroh!sHvqivsybi,
uqidjom-hgj bh!”

Hvnff’hsbxriejnusvrsyjhsaibpsjhsmjzbosybibsqvsdqimb,sfbaqnhbsybsyqe
iqvybisqsgbandjqispqcsrtsvqd jomsvrsvybusjosmbobiqd,sqoesbhgbajqddcsjo
joandaqvjomsvybsibdjmjrosrtsirpjom.sFnvscrnsunhvsorvshnggrhbstirusvyjh
hgbajubosrtsyjhshbiurojwjomhsvyqvsybsbzbistdbpsjovrserpoijmyvsgqhhjroh
pjvysyjhsaromibmqvjro.sOrvsqvsqdd;sqoesvybibjosarohjhvbesyjhsayjbt
gbandjqijvc.sYbsprndeshqcsvybsurhvsvbiijtjasvyjomhsvrsyjhsaibp,sjosq
vrobshrshviqombdcsarugrnoebesrtstnosqoestnic,sqoesvybstnicshbbubeshr
aqdandqvbesubibdcsqhsqshgjabsvrsvybstno,svyqvsorsrqihuqosarndesybqi
hnayslnbbisjozraqvjrohspjvyrnvsgnddjomstrisebqisdjtb,sqoescbvsgnddjom
trisvybsubibskr bsrtsvybsvyjom.sFbhjebhsybsqddsvybsvjubsdrr beshrsbqhc
qoesjoerdbovsyjuhbdt,shrsdrnomjomdcsuqoqmbesyjhshvbbijom-rqi,sqoeshr
firqedcsmqgbe—rgbo-urnvybesqvsvjubh—vyqvsvybsubibshjmyvsrtshnaysq
cqpojomsaruuqoebi,sfcshybbistriabsrtsaroviqhv,sqavbesdj bsqsayqiusngro
vybsaibp.sVybosqmqjo,sHvnffspqhsrobsrtsvyrhbsreeshrivsrtsynurijhvh,
pyrhbskrddjvcsjhshrubvjubhshrsanijrnhdcsqufjmnrnh,sqhsvrsgnvsqdd
jotbijrihsrosvybjismnqiesjosvybsuqvvbisrtsrfbcjomsvybu.

JosrfbejboabsvrsqshjmostirusQyqf,sHvqifna spqhsorpsgnddjomsrfdjlnbdc
qairhhsHvnff’hsfrp;sqoespybostrisqsujonvbsrishrsvybsvprsfrqvhspbib
gibvvcsobqisvrsbqaysrvybi,sHvnffsyqjdbesvybsuqvb.

“Ui.sHvqifna !sdqifrqiesfrqvsvybib,sqyrc!sqspriespjvyscb,shji,sjtscb
gdbqhb!”

“Yqddrq!”sibvniobesHvqifna ,svniojomsirnoesorvsqshjomdbsjoaysqhsyb
hgr b;shvjddsbqiobhvdcsfnvspyjhgbijomdcsnimjomsyjhsaibp;syjhstqabshbv
dj bsqstdjovstirusHvnff’h.

“Pyqvsvyjo scbsrtsvyrhbscbddrpsfrch,shji!”

“Hunmmdbesrosfrqie,shrubyrp,sfbtribsvybshyjgshqjdbe.s(Hvirom,shvirom,
frch!)”sjosqspyjhgbisvrsyjhsaibp,svyboshgbq jomsrnvsdrnesqmqjo:s“Qshqe
fnhjobhh,sUi.sHvnff!s(hbbvybsybi,shbbvybsybi,sucsdqeh!)sfnvsobzbisujoe,
Ui.sHvnff,sqddstrisvybsfbhv.sDbvsqddscrnisaibpsgnddshvirom,sarubspyqv
pjdd.s(Hgijom,sucsubo,shgijom!)sVybib’hsyrmhybqehsrtshgbiusqybqe,sUi.
Hvnff,sqoesvyqv’hspyqvscbsaqubstri.s(Gndd,sucsfrch!)sHgbiu,shgbiu’hsvyb
gdqc!sVyjhsqvsdbqhvsjhsenvc;senvcsqoesgirtjvsyqoesjosyqoe.”

“Qcb,sqcb,sJsvyrnmyvsqhsunay,”shrdjdrlnjwbesHvnff,spybosvybsfrqvh
ejzbimbe,s“qhshrrosqhsJsadqgvsbcbsros’bu,sJsvyrnmyvshr.sQcb,sqoesvyqv’h
pyqvsybspbovsjovrsvybsqtvbisyrdestri,shrsrtvbo,sqhsErnmy-Frcsdrom
hnhgbavbe.sVybcspbibsyjeeboserposvybib.sVybsPyjvbsPyqdb’hsqvsvybsfrvvru
rtsjv.sPbdd,spbdd,shrsfbsjv!sAqo’vsfbsybdgbe!sQddsijmyv!sMjzbspqc,subo!
Jvsqjo’vsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsvr-eqc!sMjzbspqc!”

Orpsvybsqezbovsrtsvybhbsrnvdqoejhyshviqombihsqvshnaysqsaijvjaqdsjohvqov
qhsvybsdrpbijomsrtsvybsfrqvhstirusvybseba ,svyjhsyqesorvsnoibqhroqfdc
qpq bobesqshrivsrtshngbihvjvjrnhsquqwbubovsjoshrubsrtsvybshyjg’h
arugqoc;sfnvsQiayc’hstqoajbesejharzbicsyqzjomshrubsvjubsgibzjrnhsmrv
qfirqesquromsvybu,svyrnmysjoebbesorvsaibejvbesvybo,svyjhsyqesjoshrub
huqddsubqhnibsgibgqibesvybustrisvybsbzbov.sJvsvrr srttsvybsbxvibubsbemb
rtsvybjisproebi;sqoeshrspyqvspjvysqddsvyjhsqoesHvnff’hsarotjebovspqcsrt
qaarnovjomstrisvybjisqggbqiqoab,svybcspbibstrisvybsvjubstibbestiru
hngbihvjvjrnhshniujhjomh;svyrnmysvybsqttqjishvjddsdbtvsqfnoeqovsirru
trisqddsuqoobisrtspjdesarokbavnibhsqhsvrseqi sQyqf’hsgibajhbsqmboacsjo
vybsuqvvbistirusvybsfbmjoojom.sTrisub,sJshjdbovdcsibaqddbesvyb
uchvbijrnhshyqerphsJsyqeshbbosaibbgjomsrosfrqiesvybsGblnresenijomsvyb
ejusOqovna bvseqpo,sqhspbddsqhsvybsbojmuqvjaqdsyjovjomhsrtsvyb
noqaarnovqfdbsBdjkqy.

Ubqovjub,sQyqf,srnvsrtsybqijomsrtsyjhsrttjabih,syqzjomshjebesvyb
tnivybhvsvrspjoepqie,spqhshvjddsiqomjomsqybqesrtsvybsrvybisfrqvh;sq
ajianuhvqoabsfbhgbq jomsyrpsgrvbovsqsaibpspqhsgnddjomsyju.sVyrhbsvjmbi
cbddrpsaibqvnibhsrtsyjhshbbubesqddshvbbdsqoespyqdbfrob;sdj bstjzb
vijg-yquubihsvybcsirhbsqoestbddspjvysibmndqishvir bhsrtshvibomvy,spyjay
gbijrejaqddcshvqivbesvybsfrqvsqdromsvybspqvbisdj bsqsyrijwrovqdsfnihv
frjdbisrnvsrtsqsUjhhjhhjggjshvbqubi.sQhstrisTbeqddqy,spyrspqhshbbo
gnddjomsvybsyqigrrobbisrqi,sybsyqesvyirposqhjebsyjhsfdqa skqa bv,sqoe
ejhgdqcbesyjhsoq besaybhvspjvysvybspyrdbsgqivsrtsyjhsfrecsqfrzbsvyb
mnopqdb,sadbqidcsanvsqmqjohvsvybsqdvbioqvjomsebgibhhjrohsrtsvybspqvbic
yrijwro;spyjdbsqvsvybsrvybisboesrtsvybsfrqvsQyqf,spjvysrobsqiu,sdj bsq
tboabi’h,svyirposyqdtsfqa pqiesjovrsvybsqji,sqhsjtsvrsarnovbifqdqoab
qocsvboeboacsvrsvijg;sQyqfspqhshbboshvbqejdcsuqoqmjomsyjhshvbbijomsrqi
qhsjosqsvyrnhqoesfrqvsdrpbijomhsbibsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsyqesvriosyju.sQdd
qvsroabsvybsrnvhvibvaybesqiusmqzbsqsgbandjqisurvjrosqoesvybosibuqjobe
tjxbe,spyjdbsvybsfrqv’hstjzbsrqihspbibshbboshjundvqobrnhdcsgbq be.sFrqv
qoesaibpshqvsurvjrodbhhsrosvybshbq.sJohvqovdcsvybsvyibbshgibqesfrqvhsjo
vybsibqisgqnhbesrosvybjispqc.sVybspyqdbhsyqesjiibmndqidcshbvvdbesfrejdc
erposjovrsvybsfdnb,svynhsmjzjomsorsejhvqovdcsejhabiojfdbsvr bosrtsvyb
urzbubov,svyrnmystirusyjhsadrhbiszjajojvcsQyqfsyqesrfhbizbesjv.

“Bzbicsuqosdrr srnvsqdromsyjhsrqih!”saijbesHvqifna .s“Vyrn,sLnbblnbm,
hvqoesng!”

Ojufdcshgijomjomsngsrosvybsvijqomndqisiqjhbesfrxsjosvybsfrp,svybshqzqmb
hvrresbibavsvybib,sqoespjvysjovbohbdcsbqmbisbcbhsmqwbesrttsvrpqiehsvyb
hgrvspybibsvybsayqhbsyqesdqhvsfbbosebhaijbe.sDj bpjhbsngrosvybsbxvibub
hvbiosrtsvybsfrqvspybibsjvspqhsqdhrsvijqomndqidcsgdqvtriubesdbzbdspjvy
vybsmnopqdb,sHvqifna syjuhbdtspqhshbbosarrddcsqoesqeirjvdcsfqdqoajom
yjuhbdtsvrsvybskbi jomsvrhhjomhsrtsyjhsayjgsrtsqsaiqtv,sqoeshjdbovdc
bcbjomsvybszqhvsfdnbsbcbsrtsvybshbq.

OrvszbicstqisejhvqovsTdqh ’hsfrqvspqhsqdhrsdcjomsfibqvydbhhdcshvjdd;
jvhsaruuqoebisiba dbhhdcshvqoejomsngrosvybsvrgsrtsvybsdrmmbiybqe,sq
hvrnvshrivsrtsgrhvsirrvbesjosvybs bbd,sqoesijhjomshrubsvprstbbvsqfrzb
vybsdbzbdsrtsvybshvbiosgdqvtriu.sJvsjhsnhbestrisaqvayjomsvniohspjvysvyb
pyqdbsdjob.sJvhsvrgsjhsorvsuribshgqajrnhsvyqosvybsgqdusrtsqsuqo’hsyqoe,
qoeshvqoejomsngroshnaysqsfqhbsqhsvyqv,sTdqh shbbubesgbiaybesqvsvyb
uqhv-ybqesrtshrubshyjgspyjaysyqeshno svrsqddsfnvsybisvina h.sFnvsdjvvdb
 jom-Grhvspqhshuqddsqoeshyriv,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsdjvvdbs jom-Grhv
pqhstnddsrtsqsdqimbsqoesvqddsqufjvjro,shrsvyqvsvyjhsdrmmbiybqe
hvqoe-grjovsrtsyjhsejesfcsorsubqohshqvjhtcs jom-Grhv.

“Jsaqo’vshbbsvyibbshbqhsrtt;svjgsnhsngsqosrqisvybib,sqoesdbvsubsrosvr
vyqv.”

Ngrosvyjh,sEqmmrr,spjvysbjvybisyqoesngrosvybsmnopqdbsvrshvbqecsyjhspqc,
hpjtvdcshdjesqtv,sqoesvybosbibavjomsyjuhbdtszrdnovbbibesyjhsdrtvc
hyrndebihstrisqsgbebhvqd.

“Mrresqsuqhv-ybqesqhsqoc,shji.sPjddscrnsurnov?”

“VyqvsJspjdd,sqoesvyqo scbszbicsunay,sucstjobstbddrp;srodcsJspjhyscrn
tjtvcstbbvsvqddbi.”

Pybibngrosgdqovjomsyjhstbbvstjiudcsqmqjohvsvprsrggrhjvbsgdqo hsrtsvyb
frqv,svybsmjmqovjasobmir,shvrrgjomsqsdjvvdb,sgibhbovbesyjhstdqvsgqdusvr
Tdqh ’hstrrv,sqoesvybosgnvvjomsTdqh ’hsyqoesrosyjhsybqihb-gdnubesybqe
qoesfjeejomsyjushgijomsqhsybsyjuhbdtshyrndesvrhh,spjvysrobsebxvbirnh
tdjomsdqoebesvybsdjvvdbsuqosyjmysqoeseicsrosyjhshyrndebih.sQoesybibspqh
Tdqh sorpshvqoejom,sEqmmrrspjvysrobsdjtvbesqiustniojhyjomsyjuspjvysq
fibqhvfqoesvrsdbqosqmqjohvsqoeshvbqecsyjuhbdtsfc.

Qvsqocsvjubsjvsjhsqshviqombshjmyvsvrsvybsvcirsvrshbbspjvyspyqvsproeirnh
yqfjvnebsrtsnoarohajrnhsh jddsvybspyqdbuqospjddsuqjovqjosqosbibav
grhvnibsjosyjhsfrqv,sbzbospybosgjvaybesqfrnvsfcsvybsurhvsijrvrnhdc
gbizbihbsqoesairhh-inoojomshbqh.sHvjddsuribshviqombsvrshbbsyjusmjeejdc
gbiaybesngrosvybsdrmmbiybqesjvhbdt,snoebishnaysajianuhvqoabh.sFnvsvyb
hjmyvsrtsdjvvdbsTdqh surnovbesngrosmjmqovjasEqmmrrspqhscbvsurib
anijrnh;strishnhvqjojomsyjuhbdtspjvysqsarrd,sjoejttbibov,sbqhc,
novyrnmyvsrt,sfqifqijasuqkbhvc,svybsorfdbsobmirsvrsbzbicsirddsrtsvyb
hbqsyqiurojrnhdcsirddbesyjhstjobstriu.sRosyjhsfirqesfqa ,stdqxbo-yqjibe
Tdqh shbbubesqshorp-tdq b.sVybsfbqibisdrr besorfdbisvyqosvybsijebi.
Vyrnmysvindcszjzqajrnh,svnundvnrnh,srhvbovqvjrnhsdjvvdbsTdqh sprndesorp
qoesvyboshvqugspjvysjugqvjboab;sfnvsorvsrobsqeebesybqzbsejesybsvybibfc
mjzbsvrsvybsobmir’hsdriedcsaybhv.sHrsyqzbsJshbbosGqhhjrosqoesZqojvc
hvqugjomsvybsdjzjomsuqmoqojurnhsbqivy,sfnvsvybsbqivysejesorvsqdvbisybi
vjebhsqoesybishbqhrohstrisvyqv.

UbqopyjdbsHvnff,svybsvyjiesuqvb,sfbviqcbesorshnaystqi-mqwjom
hrdjajvnebh.sVybspyqdbhsujmyvsyqzbsuqebsrobsrtsvybjisibmndqishrnoejomh,
orvsqsvbugriqicsejzbstirusubibstijmyv;sqoesjtsvyqvspbibsvybsaqhb,
Hvnff,sqhsyjhsprovsjoshnaysaqhbh,sjvshbbuh,spqhsibhrdzbesvrshrdqabsvyb
dqomnjhyjomsjovbizqdspjvysyjhsgjgb.sYbspjvyeibpsjvstirusyjhsyqvfqoe,
pybibsybsqdpqchspribsjvsqhdqovsdj bsqstbqvybi.sYbsdrqebesjv,sqoesiquube
yrubsvybsdrqejomspjvysyjhsvynuf-boe;sfnvsyqiedcsyqesybsjmojvbesyjh
uqvaysqairhhsvybsirnmyshqoegqgbisrtsyjhsyqoe,spybosVqhyvbmr,syjh
yqigrrobbi,spyrhbsbcbhsyqesfbboshbvvjomsvrspjoepqiesdj bsvprstjxbe
hvqih,shneebodcseirggbesdj bsdjmyvstirusyjhsbibavsqvvjvnebsvrsyjhshbqv,
aicjomsrnvsjosqslnja sgyibohcsrtsyniic,s“Erpo,serposqdd,sqoesmjzb
pqc!—vybibsvybcsqib!”

Vrsqsdqoehuqo,sorspyqdb,sorisqocshjmosrtsqsybiijom,sprndesyqzbsfbbo
zjhjfdbsqvsvyqvsurubov;sorvyjomsfnvsqsvirnfdbesfjvsrtsmibbojhyspyjvb
pqvbi,sqoesvyjoshaqvvbibesgntthsrtszqgrisyrzbijomsrzbisjv,sqoe
hnttnhjomdcsfdrpjomsrttsvrsdbbpqie,sdj bsvybsarotnhbeshanestiruspyjvb
irddjomsfjddrph.sVybsqjisqirnoeshneebodcszjfiqvbesqoesvjomdbe,sqhsjv
pbib,sdj bsvybsqjisrzbisjovbohbdcsybqvbesgdqvbhsrtsjiro.sFbobqvysvyjh
qvurhgybijaspqzjomsqoesanidjom,sqoesgqivjqddcsfbobqvysqsvyjosdqcbisrt
pqvbi,sqdhr,svybspyqdbhspbibshpjuujom.sHbbosjosqezqoabsrtsqddsvybsrvybi
joejaqvjroh,svybsgntthsrtszqgrisvybcshgrnvbe,shbbubesvybjistribinoojom
arnijbihsqoesebvqaybestdcjomsrnvijebih.

Qddstrnisfrqvhspbibsorpsjos bbosgnihnjvsrtsvyqvsrobshgrvsrtsvirnfdbe
pqvbisqoesqji.sFnvsjvsfqebstqjisvrsrnvhvijgsvybu;sjvstdbpsrosqoesro,sqh
qsuqhhsrtsjovbifdboejomsfnffdbhsfriobserposqsiqgjeshvibqustirusvyb
yjddh.

“Gndd,sgndd,sucsmrresfrch,”shqjesHvqifna ,sjosvybsdrpbhvsgrhhjfdbsfnv
jovbohbhvsaroaboviqvbespyjhgbisvrsyjhsubo;spyjdbsvybshyqigstjxbesmdqoab
tirusyjhsbcbhseqivbeshviqjmyvsqybqesrtsvybsfrp,sqdurhvshbbubesqhsvpr
zjhjfdbsobbedbhsjosvprsnobiijomsfjooqadbsarugqhhbh.sYbsejesorvshqcsunay
vrsyjhsaibp,svyrnmy,sorisejesyjhsaibpshqcsqocvyjomsvrsyju.sRodcsvyb
hjdboabsrtsvybsfrqvspqhsqvsjovbizqdhshvqivdjomdcsgjbiabesfcsrobsrtsyjh
gbandjqispyjhgbih,sorpsyqihyspjvysaruuqoe,sorpshrtvspjvysbovibqvc.

Yrpsejttbibovsvybsdrnesdjvvdbs jom-Grhv.s“Hjomsrnvsqoeshqcshrubvyjom,
ucsybqivjbh.sIrqisqoesgndd,sucsvynoebifrdvh!sFbqaysub,sfbqaysubsro
vybjisfdqa sfqa h,sfrch;srodcsersvyqvstrisub,sqoesJ’ddshjmosrzbisvrscrn
ucsUqivyq’hsZjobcqiesgdqovqvjro,sfrch;sjoadnejomspjtbsqoesayjdeibo,
frch.sDqcsubsro—dqcsubsro!sRsDrie,sDrie!sfnvsJshyqddsmrshvqi ,shvqijom
uqe!sHbb!shbbsvyqvspyjvbspqvbi!”sQoeshrshyrnvjom,sybsgnddbesyjhsyqv
tirusyjhsybqe,sqoeshvqugbesngsqoeserposrosjv;svybosgja jomsjvsng,
tdjivbesjvstqisrttsngrosvybshbq;sqoestjoqddcstbddsvrsibqijomsqoe
gdnomjomsjosvybsfrqv’hshvbiosdj bsqsaiqwbesardvstirusvybsgiqjijb.

“Drr sqvsvyqvsayqgsorp,”sgyjdrhrgyjaqddcseiqpdbesHvnff,spyr,spjvysyjh
nodjmyvbeshyrivsgjgb,subayqojaqddcsibvqjobesfbvpbbosyjhsvbbvy,sqvsq
hyrivsejhvqoab,strddrpbesqtvbi—“Yb’hsmrvstjvh,svyqvsTdqh syqh.sTjvh?
cbh,smjzbsyjustjvh—vyqv’hsvybszbicsprie—gjvaystjvhsjovrs’bu.sUbiijdc,
ubiijdc,sybqivh-qdjzb.sGneejomstrishnggbi,scrns orp;—ubiic’hsvybsprie.
Gndd,sfqfbh—gndd,shna djomh—gndd,sqdd.sFnvspyqvsvybsebzjdsqibscrn
yniicjomsqfrnv?sHrtvdc,shrtvdc,sqoeshvbqejdc,sucsubo.sRodcsgndd,sqoe
 bbgsgnddjom;sorvyjomsurib.sAiqa sqddscrnisfqa frobh,sqoesfjvbscrni
 ojzbhsjosvpr—vyqv’hsqdd.sVq bsjvsbqhc—pycsero’vscbsvq bsjvsbqhc,sJ
hqc,sqoesfnihvsqddscrnisdjzbihsqoesdnomh!”

FnvspyqvsjvspqhsvyqvsjohainvqfdbsQyqfshqjesvrsvyqvsvjmbi-cbddrpsaibpsrt
yjh—vybhbspbibspriehsfbhvsrujvvbesybib;striscrnsdjzbsnoebisvybsfdbhhbe
djmyvsrtsvybsbzqombdjaqdsdqoe.sRodcsvybsjotjebdshyqi hsjosvybsqneqajrnh
hbqhsuqcsmjzbsbqisvrshnaysprieh,spybo,spjvysvrioqersfirp,sqoesbcbhsrt
ibesuniebi,sqoestrqu-mdnbesdjgh,sQyqfsdbqgbesqtvbisyjhsgibc.

Ubqopyjdb,sqddsvybsfrqvhsvribsro.sVybsibgbqvbeshgbajtjasqddnhjrohsrt
Tdqh svrs“vyqvspyqdb,”sqhsybsaqddbesvybstjavjvjrnhsurohvbispyjaysyb
ebadqibesvrsfbsjoabhhqovdcsvqovqdjwjomsyjhsfrqv’hsfrpspjvysjvh
vqjd—vybhbsqddnhjrohsrtsyjhspbibsqvsvjubhshrszjzjesqoesdjtb-dj b,svyqv
vybcsprndesaqnhbshrubsrobsrisvprsrtsyjhsubosvrshoqvaysqstbqitndsdrr 
rzbisvybshyrndebi.sFnvsvyjhspqhsqmqjohvsqddsindb;strisvybsrqihubosunhv
gnvsrnvsvybjisbcbh,sqoesiqusqsh bpbisvyirnmysvybjisoba h;snhqmb
girornoajomsvyqvsvybcsunhvsyqzbsorsrimqohsfnvsbqih,sqoesorsdjufhsfnv
qiuh,sjosvybhbsaijvjaqdsurubovh.

Jvspqhsqshjmyvstnddsrtslnja sproebisqoesqpb!sVybszqhvshpbddhsrtsvyb
ruojgrvbovshbq;svybshnimjom,syrddrpsirqisvybcsuqeb,sqhsvybcsirddbe
qdromsvybsbjmyvsmnopqdbh,sdj bsmjmqovjasfrpdhsjosqsfrnoedbhh
frpdjom-mibbo;svybsfijbtshnhgboebesqmrocsrtsvybsfrqv,sqhsjvsprndesvjg
trisqosjohvqovsrosvybs ojtb-dj bsbembsrtsvybshyqigbispqzbh,svyqvsqdurhv
hbbubesvyibqvbojomsvrsanvsjvsjosvpr;svybshneebosgirtrnoesejgsjovrsvyb
pqvbicsmdbohsqoesyrddrph;svybs bboshgniijomhsqoesmrqejomhsvrsmqjosvyb
vrgsrtsvybsrggrhjvbsyjdd;svybsybqedrom,shdbe-dj bshdjebserposjvhsrvybi
hjeb;—qddsvybhb,spjvysvybsaijbhsrtsvybsybqehubosqoesyqigrrobbih,sqoe
vybshyneebijomsmqhghsrtsvybsrqihubo,spjvysvybsproeirnhshjmyvsrtsvyb
jzricsGblnresfbqijomserposngrosybisfrqvhspjvysrnvhvibvaybeshqjdh,sdj b
qspjdesybosqtvbisybishaibqujomsfirre;—qddsvyjhspqhsvyijddjom.

Orvsvybsiqpsibainjv,suqiayjomstirusvybsfrhrusrtsyjhspjtbsjovrsvybstbzbi
ybqvsrtsyjhstjihvsfqvvdb;sorvsvybsebqesuqo’hsmyrhvsboarnovbijomsvyb
tjihvsno orposgyqovrusjosvybsrvybispride;—objvybisrtsvybhbsaqostbbd
hviqombisqoeshvirombisburvjrohsvyqosvyqvsuqoserbh,spyrstrisvybstjihv
vjubstjoehsyjuhbdtsgnddjomsjovrsvybsayqiube,sayniobesajiadbsrtsvyb
ynovbeshgbiuspyqdb.

Vybseqoajomspyjvbspqvbisuqebsfcsvybsayqhbspqhsorpsfbarujomsuribsqoe
uribszjhjfdb,srpjomsvrsvybsjoaibqhjomseqi obhhsrtsvybsenosadrne-hyqerph
tdnomsngrosvybshbq.sVybskbvhsrtszqgrisorsdrombisfdboebe,sfnvsvjdvbe
bzbicpybibsvrsijmyvsqoesdbtv;svybspyqdbhshbbubeshbgqiqvjomsvybjispq bh.
Vybsfrqvhspbibsgnddbesuribsqgqiv;sHvqifna smjzjomsayqhbsvrsvyibbspyqdbh
inoojomsebqesvrsdbbpqie.sRnishqjdspqhsorpshbv,sqoe,spjvysvybshvjdd
ijhjomspjoe,spbsinhybesqdrom;svybsfrqvsmrjomspjvyshnaysuqeobhhsvyirnmy
vybspqvbi,svyqvsvybsdbbsrqihsarndeshaqiabdcsfbspri besiqgjedcsbornmysvr
bhaqgbsfbjomsvriostirusvybsirp-dra h.

Hrrospbspbibsinoojomsvyirnmysqshnttnhjomspjebszbjdsrtsujhv;sobjvybi
hyjgsorisfrqvsvrsfbshbbo.

“Mjzbspqc,subo,”spyjhgbibesHvqifna ,seiqpjomshvjddstnivybisqtvsvyb
hybbvsrtsyjhshqjd;s“vybibsjhsvjubsvrs jddsqstjhyscbvsfbtribsvybshlnqdd
arubh.sVybib’hspyjvbspqvbisqmqjo!—adrhbsvr!sHgijom!”

Hrrosqtvbi,svprsaijbhsjoslnja shnaabhhjrosrosbqayshjebsrtsnhseborvbe
vyqvsvybsrvybisfrqvhsyqesmrvstqhv;sfnvsyqiedcspbibsvybcsrzbiybqie,spybo
pjvysqsdjmyvojom-dj bsynivdjomspyjhgbisHvqifna shqje:s“Hvqoesng!”sqoe
Lnbblnbm,syqigrrosjosyqoe,shgiqomsvrsyjhstbbv.

Vyrnmysorvsrobsrtsvybsrqihubospqhsvybostqajomsvybsdjtbsqoesebqvysgbijd
hrsadrhbsvrsvybusqybqe,scbvspjvysvybjisbcbhsrosvybsjovbohbsarnovboqoab
rtsvybsuqvbsjosvybshvbiosrtsvybsfrqv,svybcs obpsvyqvsvybsjuujobov
johvqovsyqesarub;svybcsybqie,svrr,sqosboriurnhspqddrpjomshrnoesqhsrt
tjtvcsbdbgyqovhshvjiijomsjosvybjisdjvvbi.sUbqopyjdbsvybsfrqvspqhshvjdd
frrujomsvyirnmysvybsujhv,svybspqzbhsanidjomsqoesyjhhjomsqirnoesnhsdj b
vybsbibavbesaibhvhsrtsboiqmbeshbigbovh.

“Vyqv’hsyjhsynug.s_Vybib_,s_vybib_,smjzbsjvsvrsyju!”spyjhgbibe
Hvqifna .

Qshyrivsinhyjomshrnoesdbqgbesrnvsrtsvybsfrqv;sjvspqhsvybseqivbesjirosrt
Lnbblnbm.sVybosqddsjosrobspbdebesaruurvjrosaqubsqosjozjhjfdbsgnhystiru
qhvbio,spyjdbstripqiesvybsfrqvshbbubeshvij jomsrosqsdbemb;svybshqjd
arddqghbesqoesbxgdrebe;sqsmnhysrtshaqdejomszqgrishyrvsngsobqisfc;
hrubvyjomsirddbesqoesvnufdbesdj bsqosbqivylnq bsfbobqvysnh.sVybspyrdb
aibpspbibsyqdtshnttraqvbesqhsvybcspbibsvrhhbesybdvbi-h bdvbisjovrsvyb
pyjvbsaniedjomsaibqusrtsvybshlnqdd.sHlnqdd,spyqdb,sqoesyqigrrosyqesqdd
fdboebesvrmbvybi;sqoesvybspyqdb,subibdcsmiqwbesfcsvybsjiro,sbhaqgbe.

Vyrnmysarugdbvbdcshpqugbe,svybsfrqvspqhsobqidcsnoyqiube.sHpjuujomsirnoe
jvspbsgja besngsvybstdrqvjomsrqih,sqoesdqhyjomsvybusqairhhsvybsmnopqdb,
vnufdbesfqa svrsrnisgdqabh.sVybibspbshqvsngsvrsrnis obbhsjosvybshbq,
vybspqvbisarzbijomsbzbicsijfsqoesgdqo ,shrsvyqvsvrsrniserpopqiesmqwjom
bcbhsvybshnhgboebesaiqtvshbbubesqsariqdsfrqvsmirposngsvrsnhstirusvyb
frvvrusrtsvybsrabqo.

Vybspjoesjoaibqhbesvrsqsyrpd;svybspqzbhseqhybesvybjisfna dbihsvrmbvybi;
vybspyrdbshlnqddsirqibe,stri be,sqoesaiqa dbesqirnoesnhsdj bsqspyjvb
tjibsngrosvybsgiqjijb,sjospyjay,snoarohnube,spbspbibsfniojom;sjuurivqd
josvybhbskqphsrtsebqvy!sJoszqjospbsyqjdbesvybsrvybisfrqvh;sqhspbddsirqi
vrsvybsdjzbsarqdhserposvybsayjuobcsrtsqstdqujomstnioqabsqhsyqjdsvyrhb
frqvhsjosvyqvshvriu.sUbqopyjdbsvybseijzjomshane,siqa ,sqoesujhv,smibp
eqi bispjvysvybshyqerphsrtsojmyv;sorshjmosrtsvybshyjgsarndesfbshbbo.
Vybsijhjomshbqstrifqebsqddsqvvbugvhsvrsfqdbsrnvsvybsfrqv.sVybsrqihspbib
nhbdbhhsqhsgirgbddbih,sgbitriujomsorpsvybsrttjabsrtsdjtb-gibhbizbih.
Hr,sanvvjomsvybsdqhyjomsrtsvybspqvbigirrtsuqvays bm,sqtvbisuqoc
tqjdnibhsHvqifna sarovijzbesvrsjmojvbsvybsdqugsjosvybsdqovbio;svybo
hvibvayjomsjvsrosqspqjtsgrdb,syqoebesjvsvrsLnbblnbmsqhsvyb
hvqoeqie-fbqibisrtsvyjhstridriosyrgb.sVybib,svybo,sybshqv,syrdejomsng
vyqvsjufbajdbsaqoedbsjosvybsybqivsrtsvyqvsqdujmyvcstridrioobhh.sVybib,
vybo,sybshqv,svybshjmosqoeshcufrdsrtsqsuqospjvyrnvstqjvy,syrgbdbhhdc
yrdejomsngsyrgbsjosvybsujehvsrtsebhgqji.

Pbv,seiboaybesvyirnmy,sqoeshyjzbijomsarde,sebhgqjijomsrtshyjgsrisfrqv,
pbsdjtvbesngsrnisbcbhsqhsvybseqposaqubsro.sVybsujhvshvjddshgibqesrzbi
vybshbq,svybsbugvcsdqovbiosdqcsainhybesjosvybsfrvvrusrtsvybsfrqv.
HneebodcsLnbblnbmshvqivbesvrsyjhstbbv,syrddrpjomsyjhsyqoesvrsyjhsbqi.
Pbsqddsybqiesqstqjovsaibq jom,sqhsrtsirgbhsqoescqiehsyjvybivrsunttdbe
fcsvybshvriu.sVybshrnoesaqubsobqibisqoesobqibi;svybsvyja sujhvhspbib
ejudcsgqivbesfcsqsynmb,szqmnbstriu.sQttijmyvbe,spbsqddshgiqomsjovrsvyb
hbqsqhsvybshyjgsqvsdqhvsdrrubesjovrszjbp,sfbqijomsijmyvserposngrosnh
pjvyjosqsejhvqoabsrtsorvsunaysuribsvyqosjvhsdbomvy.

Tdrqvjomsrosvybspqzbhspbshqpsvybsqfqoerobesfrqv,sqhstrisrobsjohvqovsjv
vrhhbesqoesmqgbesfbobqvysvybshyjg’hsfrphsdj bsqsayjgsqvsvybsfqhbsrtsq
aqvqiqav;sqoesvybosvybszqhvsynddsirddbesrzbisjv,sqoesjvspqhshbbosor
uribsvjddsjvsaqubsngspbdvbijomsqhvbio.sQmqjospbshpqustrisjv,spbib
eqhybesqmqjohvsjvsfcsvybshbqh,sqoespbibsqvsdqhvsvq bosngsqoeshqtbdc
dqoebesrosfrqie.sBibsvybshlnqddsaqubsadrhbsvr,svybsrvybisfrqvhsyqesanv
drrhbstirusvybjistjhysqoesibvniobesvrsvybshyjgsjosmrresvjub.sVybshyjg
yqesmjzbosnhsng,sfnvspqhshvjddsainjhjom,sjtsyqgdcsjvsujmyvsdjmyvsngro
hrubsvr bosrtsrnisgbijhyjom,—qosrqisrisqsdqoabsgrdb.


AYQGVBIs49.sVybsYcboq.

Vybibsqibsabivqjoslnbbisvjubhsqoesraaqhjrohsjosvyjhshviqombsujxbe
qttqjispbsaqddsdjtbspybosqsuqosvq bhsvyjhspyrdbsnojzbihbstrisqszqhv
giqavjaqdskr b,svyrnmysvybspjvsvybibrtsybsfnvsejudcsejhabioh,sqoesurib
vyqoshnhgbavhsvyqvsvybskr bsjhsqvsorfrec’hsbxgbohbsfnvsyjhsrpo.
Yrpbzbi,sorvyjomsejhgjijvh,sqoesorvyjomshbbuhsprivyspyjdbsejhgnvjom.sYb
frdvhserposqddsbzbovh,sqddsaibbeh,sqoesfbdjbth,sqoesgbihnqhjroh,sqdd
yqiesvyjomhszjhjfdbsqoesjozjhjfdb,sobzbisujoesyrps orffc;sqhsqosrhvijay
rtsgrvbovsejmbhvjrosmrffdbhserposfnddbvhsqoesmnostdjovh.sQoesqhstri
huqddsejttjandvjbhsqoespriicjomh,sgirhgbavhsrtshneebosejhqhvbi,sgbijd
rtsdjtbsqoesdjuf;sqddsvybhb,sqoesebqvysjvhbdt,shbbusvrsyjusrodcshdc,
mrre-oqvnibesyjvh,sqoeskrddcsgnoaybhsjosvybshjebsfbhvrpbesfcsvybsnohbbo
qoesnoqaarnovqfdbsrdeskr bi.sVyqvsreeshrivsrtspqcpqiesurresJsqu
hgbq jomsrt,sarubhsrzbisqsuqosrodcsjoshrubsvjubsrtsbxvibubsvijfndqvjro;
jvsarubhsjosvybszbicsujehvsrtsyjhsbqiobhvobhh,shrsvyqvspyqvsknhvsfbtrib
ujmyvsyqzbshbbubesvrsyjusqsvyjomsurhvsurubovrnh,sorpshbbuhsfnvsqsgqiv
rtsvybsmbobiqdskr b.sVybibsjhsorvyjomsdj bsvybsgbijdhsrtspyqdjomsvr
fibbesvyjhstibbsqoesbqhcshrivsrtsmbojqd,sebhgbiqersgyjdrhrgyc;sqoespjvy
jvsJsorpsibmqiebesvyjhspyrdbszrcqmbsrtsvybsGblnre,sqoesvybsmibqvsPyjvb
Pyqdbsjvhsrfkbav.

“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,spybosvybcsyqeseiqmmbesub,svybsdqhvsuqo,svrsvyb
eba ,sqoesJspqhshvjddshyq jomsuchbdtsjosucskqa bvsvrstdjomsrttsvyb
pqvbi;s“Lnbblnbm,sucstjobstijboe,serbhsvyjhshrivsrtsvyjomsrtvbo
yqggbo?”sPjvyrnvsunaysburvjro,svyrnmyshrq besvyirnmysknhvsdj bsub,syb
mqzbsubsvrsnoebihvqoesvyqvshnaysvyjomhsejesrtvbosyqggbo.

“Ui.sHvnff,”shqjesJ,svniojomsvrsvyqvsprivyc,spyr,sfnvvrobesngsjosyjh
rjd-kqa bv,spqhsorpsaqdudcshur jomsyjhsgjgbsjosvybsiqjo;s“Ui.sHvnff,sJ
vyjo sJsyqzbsybqiescrnshqcsvyqvsrtsqddspyqdbuboscrnsbzbisubv,srnisayjbt
uqvb,sUi.sHvqifna ,sjhsfcstqisvybsurhvsaqibtndsqoesginebov.sJshnggrhb
vybo,svyqvsmrjomsgdnugsrosqstdcjomspyqdbspjvyscrnishqjdshbvsjosqstrmmc
hlnqddsjhsvybsybjmyvsrtsqspyqdbuqo’hsejhaibvjro?”

“Abivqjo.sJ’zbsdrpbibestrispyqdbhstirusqsdbq jomshyjgsjosqsmqdbsrtt
AqgbsYrio.”

“Ui.sTdqh ,”shqjesJ,svniojomsvrsdjvvdbs jom-Grhv,spyrspqhshvqoejom
adrhbsfc;s“crnsqibsbxgbijboabesjosvybhbsvyjomh,sqoesJsqusorv.sPjddscrn
vbddsubspybvybisjvsjhsqosnoqdvbiqfdbsdqpsjosvyjhstjhybic,sUi.sTdqh ,
trisqosrqihuqosvrsfibq syjhsrposfqa sgnddjomsyjuhbdtsfqa -triburhvsjovr
ebqvy’hskqph?”

“Aqo’vscrnsvpjhvsvyqvshuqddbi?”shqjesTdqh .s“Cbh,svyqv’hsvybsdqp.sJ
hyrndesdj bsvrshbbsqsfrqv’hsaibpsfqa jomspqvbisngsvrsqspyqdbstqab
triburhv.sYq,syq!svybspyqdbsprndesmjzbsvybushlnjovstrishlnjov,sujoe
vyqv!”

Ybibsvybo,stirusvyibbsjugqivjqdspjvobhhbh,sJsyqesqsebdjfbiqvbshvqvbubov
rtsvybsbovjibsaqhb.sArohjebijom,svybibtrib,svyqvshlnqddhsqoesaqghjwjomh
josvybspqvbisqoesarohblnbovsfjzrnqa hsrosvybsebbg,spbibsuqvvbihsrt
aruurosraaniiboabsjosvyjhs joesrtsdjtb;sarohjebijomsvyqvsqvsvyb
hngbidqvjzbdcsaijvjaqdsjohvqovsrtsmrjomsrosvrsvybspyqdbsJsunhvsibhjmo
ucsdjtbsjovrsvybsyqoehsrtsyjuspyrshvbbibesvybsfrqv—rtvbovjubhsqstbddrp
pyrsqvsvyqvszbicsurubovsjhsjosyjhsjugbvnrnhobhhsngrosvybsgrjovsrt
hanvvdjomsvybsaiqtvspjvysyjhsrpostiqovjashvqugjomh;sarohjebijomsvyqv
vybsgqivjandqisejhqhvbisvrsrnisrposgqivjandqisfrqvspqhsayjbtdcsvrsfb
jugnvbesvrsHvqifna ’hseijzjomsrosvrsyjhspyqdbsqdurhvsjosvybsvbbvysrtsq
hlnqdd,sqoesarohjebijomsvyqvsHvqifna ,sorvpjvyhvqoejom,spqhstqurnhstri
yjhsmibqvsybbetndobhhsjosvybstjhybic;sarohjebijomsvyqvsJsfbdrombesvr
vyjhsnoaruurodcsginebovsHvqifna ’hsfrqv;sqoestjoqddcsarohjebijomsjo
pyqvsqsebzjd’hsayqhbsJspqhsjugdjaqvbe,svrnayjomsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb:svq jom
qddsvyjomhsvrmbvybi,sJshqc,sJsvyrnmyvsJsujmyvsqhspbddsmrsfbdrpsqoesuq b
qsirnmyseiqtvsrtsucspjdd.s“Lnbblnbm,”shqjesJ,s“arubsqdrom,scrnshyqddsfb
ucsdqpcbi,sbxbanvri,sqoesdbmqvbb.”

Jvsuqcshbbushviqombsvyqvsrtsqddsuboshqjdrihshyrndesfbsvjo bijomsqv
vybjisdqhvspjddhsqoesvbhvqubovh,sfnvsvybibsqibsorsgbrgdbsjosvybspride
uribstroesrtsvyqvsejzbihjro.sVyjhspqhsvybstrnivysvjubsjosucsoqnvjaqd
djtbsvyqvsJsyqeserobsvybshqubsvyjom.sQtvbisvybsabiburocspqhsaroadnebe
ngrosvybsgibhbovsraaqhjro,sJstbdvsqddsvybsbqhjbi;sqshvrobspqhsirddbe
qpqcstirusucsybqiv.sFbhjebh,sqddsvybseqchsJshyrndesorpsdjzbsprndesfbsqh
mrresqhsvybseqchsvyqvsDqwqinhsdjzbesqtvbisyjhsibhniibavjro;sq
hnggdbubovqicsadbqosmqjosrtshrsuqocsurovyhsrispbb hsqhsvybsaqhbsujmyv
fb.sJshnizjzbesuchbdt;sucsebqvysqoesfnijqdspbibsdra besngsjosucsaybhv.
Jsdrr besirnoesubsviqolnjddcsqoesarovbovbedc,sdj bsqslnjbvsmyrhvspjvysq
adbqosarohajboabshjvvjomsjohjebsvybsfqihsrtsqshonmstqujdcszqndv.

Orpsvybo,svyrnmyvsJ,snoarohajrnhdcsirddjomsngsvybshdbbzbhsrtsucstira ,
ybibsmrbhstrisqsarrd,sarddbavbesejzbsqvsebqvysqoesebhvinavjro,sqoesvyb
ebzjdstbvaysvybsyjoeurhv.


AYQGVBIs50.sQyqf’hsFrqvsqoesAibp.sTbeqddqy.

“Pyrsprndesyqzbsvyrnmyvsjv,sTdqh !”saijbesHvnff;s“jtsJsyqesfnvsrobsdbm
crnsprndesorvsaqvaysubsjosqsfrqv,snodbhhsuqcfbsvrshvrgsvybsgdnm-yrdb
pjvysucsvjufbisvrb.sRy!syb’hsqsproebitndsrdesuqo!”

“Jsero’vsvyjo sjvshrshviqomb,sqtvbisqdd,srosvyqvsqaarnov,”shqjesTdqh .
“Jtsyjhsdbmspbibsrttsqvsvybsyjg,sorp,sjvsprndesfbsqsejttbibovsvyjom.
Vyqvsprndesejhqfdbsyju;sfnvsybsyqhsrobs obb,sqoesmrresgqivsrtsvybsrvybi
dbtv,scrns orp.”

“Jsero’vs orpsvyqv,sucsdjvvdbsuqo;sJsobzbiscbvshqpsyjus obbd.”

Quromspyqdb-pjhbsgbrgdbsjvsyqhsrtvbosfbbosqimnbespybvybi,sarohjebijom
vybsgqiqurnovsjugrivqoabsrtsyjhsdjtbsvrsvybshnaabhhsrtsvybszrcqmb,sjv
jhsijmyvstrisqspyqdjomsaqgvqjosvrskbrgqiejwbsvyqvsdjtbsjosvybsqavjzb
gbijdhsrtsvybsayqhb.sHrsVqubidqob’hshrdejbihsrtvbosqimnbespjvysvbqihsjo
vybjisbcbh,spybvybisvyqvsjozqdnqfdbsdjtbsrtsyjhsrnmyvsvrsfbsaqiijbe
jovrsvybsvyja bhvsrtsvybstjmyv.

FnvspjvysQyqfsvybslnbhvjrosqhhnubesqsurejtjbesqhgbav.sArohjebijomsvyqv
pjvysvprsdbmhsuqosjhsfnvsqsyrffdjomspjmyvsjosqddsvjubhsrtseqombi;
arohjebijomsvyqvsvybsgnihnjvsrtspyqdbhsjhsqdpqchsnoebismibqvsqoe
bxviqriejoqicsejttjandvjbh;svyqvsbzbicsjoejzjenqdsurubov,sjoebbe,svybo
arugijhbhsqsgbijd;snoebisvybhbsajianuhvqoabhsjhsjvspjhbstrisqocsuqjube
uqosvrsbovbisqspyqdb-frqvsjosvybsynov?sQhsqsmbobiqdsvyjom,svyb
krjov-rpobihsrtsvybsGblnresunhvsyqzbsgdqjodcsvyrnmyvsorv.

Qyqfspbdds obpsvyqvsqdvyrnmysyjhstijboehsqvsyrubsprndesvyjo sdjvvdbsrt
yjhsbovbijomsqsfrqvsjosabivqjosarugqiqvjzbdcsyqiudbhhszjajhhjvnebhsrt
vybsayqhb,strisvybshq bsrtsfbjomsobqisvybshabobsrtsqavjrosqoesmjzjom
yjhsriebihsjosgbihro,scbvstrisAqgvqjosQyqfsvrsyqzbsqsfrqvsqavnqddc
qggrivjrobesvrsyjusqhsqsibmndqisybqehuqosjosvybsynov—qfrzbsqddstri
AqgvqjosQyqfsvrsfbshnggdjbespjvystjzbsbxviqsubo,sqhsvyqvshqubsfrqv’h
aibp,sybspbdds obpsvyqvshnaysmbobirnhsaroabjvhsobzbisbovbibesvybsybqeh
rtsvybsrpobihsrtsvybsGblnre.sVybibtribsybsyqesorvshrdjajvbesqsfrqv’h
aibpstirusvybu,sorisyqesybsjosqocspqcsyjovbesyjhsebhjibhsrosvyqvsybqe.
Obzbivybdbhhsybsyqesvq bosgijzqvbsubqhnibhsrtsyjhsrposvrnayjomsqddsvyqv
uqvvbi.sNovjdsAqfqar’hsgnfdjhybesejharzbic,svybshqjdrihsyqesdjvvdb
tribhbbosjv,svyrnmysvrsfbshnibspybo,sqtvbisfbjomsqsdjvvdbspyjdbsrnvsrt
griv,sqddsyqoehsyqesaroadnebesvybsanhvruqicsfnhjobhhsrtstjvvjomsvyb
pyqdbfrqvhstrishbizjab;spyboshrubsvjubsqtvbisvyjhsQyqfspqhsorpsqoesvybo
trnoesfbhvjiijomsyjuhbdtsjosvybsuqvvbisrtsuq jomsvyrdb-gjohspjvysyjh
rposyqoehstrispyqvspqhsvyrnmyvsvrsfbsrobsrtsvybshgqibsfrqvh,sqoesbzbo
hrdjajvrnhdcsanvvjomsvybshuqddsprrebosh bpbih,spyjayspybosvybsdjobsjh
inoojomsrnvsqibsgjoobesrzbisvybsmirrzbsjosvybsfrp:spybosqddsvyjhspqh
rfhbizbesjosyju,sqoesgqivjandqidcsyjhshrdjajvnebsjosyqzjomsqosbxviq
arqvsrtshybqvyjomsjosvybsfrvvrusrtsvybsfrqv,sqhsjtsvrsuq bsjvsfbvvbi
pjvyhvqoesvybsgrjovbesgibhhnibsrtsyjhsjzricsdjuf;sqoesqdhrsvybsqoxjbvc
ybsbzjoabesjosbxqavdcshyqgjomsvybsvyjmysfrqie,srisadnuhcsadbqv,sqhsjv
jhshrubvjubhsaqddbe,svybsyrijwrovqdsgjbabsjosvybsfrqv’hsfrpstrisfiqajom
vybs obbsqmqjohvsjoseqivjomsrishvqffjomsqvsvybspyqdb;spybosjvspqh
rfhbizbesyrpsrtvbosybshvrresngsjosvyqvsfrqvspjvysyjhshrdjvqics obb
tjxbesjosvybshbuj-ajiandqisebgibhhjrosjosvybsadbqv,sqoespjvysvyb
aqigbovbi’hsayjhbdsmrnmbesrnvsqsdjvvdbsybibsqoeshviqjmyvbobesjvsq
djvvdbsvybib;sqddsvybhbsvyjomh,sJshqc,syqesqpq bobesunaysjovbibhvsqoe
anijrhjvcsqvsvybsvjub.sFnvsqdurhvsbzbicfrecshnggrhbesvyqvsvyjh
gqivjandqisgibgqiqvjzbsybbetndobhhsjosQyqfsunhvsrodcsfbspjvysqszjbpsvr
vybsndvjuqvbsayqhbsrtsUrfcsEja ;strisybsyqesqdibqecsibzbqdbesyjh
jovbovjrosvrsynovsvyqvsurivqdsurohvbisjosgbihro.sFnvshnaysqshnggrhjvjro
ejesfcsorsubqohsjozrdzbsvybsiburvbhvshnhgjajrosqhsvrsqocsfrqv’hsaibp
fbjomsqhhjmobesvrsvyqvsfrqv.

Orp,spjvysvybshnfriejoqvbsgyqovruh,spyqvsproebisibuqjobeshrrospqobe
qpqc;strisjosqspyqdbisproebihshrrospqob.sFbhjebh,sorpsqoesvyboshnay
noqaarnovqfdbsreehsqoesboehsrtshviqombsoqvjrohsarubsngstirusvybsno orpo
orr hsqoesqhy-yrdbhsrtsvybsbqivysvrsuqosvybhbstdrqvjomsrnvdqphsrt
pyqdbih;sqoesvybshyjghsvybuhbdzbhsrtvbosgja sngshnayslnbbisaqhvqpqc
aibqvnibhstrnoesvrhhjomsqfrnvsvybsrgboshbqsrosgdqo h,sfjvhsrtspiba ,
rqih,spyqdbfrqvh,saqorbh,sfdrpo-rttsKqgqobhbskno h,sqoespyqvsorv;svyqv
Fbbdwbfnfsyjuhbdtsujmyvsadjufsngsvybshjebsqoeshvbgserposjovrsvybsaqfjo
vrsayqvspjvysvybsaqgvqjo,sqoesjvsprndesorvsaibqvbsqocsnohnfenqfdb
bxajvbubovsjosvybstribaqhvdb.

Fnvsfbsqddsvyjhsqhsjvsuqc,sabivqjosjvsjhsvyqvspyjdbsvybshnfriejoqvb
gyqovruhshrrostrnoesvybjisgdqabsquromsvybsaibp,svyrnmyshvjddsqhsjvspbib
hrubyrpsejhvjoavstirusvybu,scbvsvyqvsyqji-vnifqobesTbeqddqysibuqjobesq
unttdbesuchvbicsvrsvybsdqhv.sPyboabsybsaqubsjosqsuqoobidcspridesdj b
vyjh,sfcspyqvshrivsrtsnoqaarnovqfdbsvjbsybshrrosbzjoabesyjuhbdtsvrsfb
djo bespjvysQyqf’hsgbandjqistrivnobh;soqc,shrstqisqhsvrsyqzbshrubshriv
rtsqsyqdt-yjovbesjotdnboab;sYbqzbos orph,sfnvsjvsujmyvsyqzbsfbbosbzbo
qnvyrijvcsrzbisyju;sqddsvyjhsorobs obp.sFnvsrobsaqoorvshnhvqjosqo
joejttbibovsqjisaroabiojomsTbeqddqy.sYbspqhshnaysqsaibqvnibsqh
ajzjdjwbe,serubhvjasgbrgdbsjosvybsvbugbiqvbswrobsrodcshbbsjosvybji
eibquh,sqoesvyqvsfnvsejudc;sfnvsvybsdj bsrtspyrusorpsqoesvybosmdjeb
quromsvybsnoayqomjomsQhjqvjasaruunojvjbh,sbhgbajqddcsvybsRijbovqdsjhdbh
vrsvybsbqhvsrtsvybsarovjobov—vyrhbsjohndqvbe,sjuuburijqd,snoqdvbiqfdb
arnovijbh,spyjaysbzbosjosvybhbsurebioseqchshvjddsgibhbizbsunaysrtsvyb
myrhvdcsqfrijmjoqdobhhsrtsbqivy’hsgijuqdsmbobiqvjroh,spybosvybsuburic
rtsvybstjihvsuqospqhsqsejhvjoavsibarddbavjro,sqoesqddsubosyjh
ebhaboeqovh,sno orpjomspyboabsybsaqub,sbcbesbqaysrvybisqhsibqd
gyqovruh,sqoesqh besrtsvybshnosqoesvybsurrospycsvybcspbibsaibqvbesqoe
vrspyqvsboe;spybosvyrnmy,sqaariejomsvrsMbobhjh,svybsqombdhsjoebbe
arohrivbespjvysvybseqnmyvbihsrtsubo,svybsebzjdhsqdhr,sqeesvyb
noaqorojaqdsIqffjoh,sjoendmbesjosunoeqobsqurnih.


AYQGVBIs51.sVybsHgjijv-Hgrnv.

Eqch,spbb hsgqhhbe,sqoesnoebisbqhcshqjd,svybsjzricsGblnresyqeshdrpdc
hpbgvsqairhhstrnishbzbiqdsainjhjom-mirnoeh;svyqvsrttsvybsQwribh;srtt
vybsAqgbsebsZbiebh;srosvybsGdqvbs(hrsaqddbe),sfbjomsrttsvybsurnvysrt
vybsIjrsebsdqsGdqvq;sqoesvybsAqiirdsMirnoe,sqosnohvq be,spqvbic
draqdjvc,shrnvybidcstirusHv.sYbdboq.

Jvspqhspyjdbsmdjejomsvyirnmysvybhbsdqvvbispqvbihsvyqvsrobshbibobsqoe
urrodjmyvsojmyv,spybosqddsvybspqzbhsirddbesfcsdj bshairddhsrtshjdzbi;
qoe,sfcsvybjishrtv,shnttnhjomshbbvyjomh,suqebspyqvshbbubesqshjdzbic
hjdboab,sorvsqshrdjvneb;sroshnaysqshjdbovsojmyvsqshjdzbicskbvspqhshbbo
tqisjosqezqoabsrtsvybspyjvbsfnffdbhsqvsvybsfrp.sDjvsngsfcsvybsurro,sjv
drr besabdbhvjqd;shbbubeshrubsgdnubesqoesmdjvvbijomsmresngijhjomstiru
vybshbq.sTbeqddqystjihvsebhaijbesvyjhskbv.sTrisrtsvybhbsurrodjmyv
ojmyvh,sjvspqhsyjhsprovsvrsurnovsvrsvybsuqjo-uqhvsybqe,sqoeshvqoesq
drr -rnvsvybib,spjvysvybshqubsgibajhjrosqhsjtsjvsyqesfbboseqc.sQoescbv,
vyrnmysybiehsrtspyqdbhspbibshbbosfcsojmyv,sorvsrobspyqdbuqosjosq
ynoeibesprndeszbovnibsqsdrpbijomstrisvybu.sCrnsuqcsvyjo spjvyspyqv
burvjroh,svybo,svybshbqubosfbybdesvyjhsrdesRijbovqdsgbiaybesqdrtvsqv
hnaysnonhnqdsyrnih;syjhsvnifqosqoesvybsurro,sarugqojrohsjosrobsh c.sFnv
pybo,sqtvbishgboejomsyjhsnojtriusjovbizqdsvybibstrishbzbiqdshnaabhhjzb
ojmyvhspjvyrnvsnvvbijomsqshjomdbshrnoe;spybo,sqtvbisqddsvyjhshjdboab,
yjhsnobqivydcszrjabspqhsybqiesqoornoajomsvyqvshjdzbic,surro-djvskbv,
bzbicsibadjojomsuqijobishvqivbesvrsyjhstbbvsqhsjtshrubspjombeshgjijv
yqesdjmyvbesjosvybsijmmjom,sqoesyqjdbesvybsurivqdsaibp.s“Vybibshyb
fdrph!”sYqesvybsvinugsrtsknemubovsfdrpo,svybcsarndesorvsyqzbslnjzbibe
urib;scbvshvjddsvybcstbdvsorsvbiiri;siqvybisgdbqhnib.sTrisvyrnmysjvspqh
qsurhvsnoprovbesyrni,scbvshrsjugibhhjzbspqhsvybsaic,sqoeshrsebdjijrnhdc
bxajvjom,svyqvsqdurhvsbzbicshrndsrosfrqiesjohvjoavjzbdcsebhjibesq
drpbijom.

Pqd jomsvybseba spjvyslnja ,shjeb-dnomjomshvijebh,sQyqfsaruuqoebesvyb
v’mqddqovshqjdhsqoesircqdhsvrsfbshbv,sqoesbzbicshvnohqjdshgibqe.sVyb
fbhvsuqosjosvybshyjgsunhvsvq bsvybsybdu.sVybo,spjvysbzbicsuqhv-ybqe
uqoobe,svybsgjdbe-ngsaiqtvsirddbeserposfbtribsvybspjoe.sVybshviqomb,
ngybqzjom,sdjtvjomsvboeboacsrtsvybsvqttiqjdsfibbwbstjddjomsvybsyrddrph
rtshrsuqocshqjdh,suqebsvybsfnrcqov,syrzbijomseba svrstbbdsdj bsqji
fbobqvysvybstbbv;spyjdbshvjddshybsinhybesqdrom,sqhsjtsvprsqovqmrojhvja
jotdnboabhspbibshvinmmdjomsjosybi—robsvrsurnovsejibavsvrsybqzbo,svyb
rvybisvrseijzbscqpjomdcsvrshrubsyrijwrovqdsmrqd.sQoesyqescrnspqvaybe
Qyqf’hstqabsvyqvsojmyv,scrnsprndesyqzbsvyrnmyvsvyqvsjosyjusqdhrsvpr
ejttbibovsvyjomhspbibspqiijom.sPyjdbsyjhsrobsdjzbsdbmsuqebsdjzbdc
bayrbhsqdromsvybseba ,sbzbicshvir bsrtsyjhsebqesdjufshrnoebesdj bsq
arttjo-vqg.sRosdjtbsqoesebqvysvyjhsrdesuqospqd be.sFnvsvyrnmysvybshyjg
hrshpjtvdcshgbe,sqoesvyrnmystirusbzbicsbcb,sdj bsqiirph,svybsbqmbi
mdqoabhshyrv,scbvsvybshjdzbicskbvspqhsorsuribshbbosvyqvsojmyv.sBzbic
hqjdrishpribsybshqpsjvsroab,sfnvsorvsqshbaroesvjub.

Vyjhsujeojmyv-hgrnvsyqesqdurhvsmirposqstrimrvvbosvyjom,spybo,shrubseqch
qtvbi,sdr!sqvsvybshqubshjdbovsyrni,sjvspqhsqmqjosqoornoabe:sqmqjosjv
pqhsebhaijbesfcsqdd;sfnvsngrosuq jomshqjdsvrsrzbivq bsjv,sroabsuribsjv
ejhqggbqibesqhsjtsjvsyqesobzbisfbbo.sQoeshrsjvshbizbesnhsojmyvsqtvbi
ojmyv,svjddsorsrobsybbebesjvsfnvsvrsproebisqvsjv.sUchvbijrnhdcskbvvbe
jovrsvybsadbqisurrodjmyv,srishvqidjmyv,sqhsvybsaqhbsujmyvsfb;
ejhqggbqijomsqmqjostrisrobspyrdbseqc,srisvprseqch,srisvyibb;sqoe
hrubyrpshbbujomsqvsbzbicsejhvjoavsibgbvjvjrosvrsfbsqezqoajomshvjdd
tnivybisqoestnivybisjosrniszqo,svyjhshrdjvqicskbvshbbubestrisbzbi
qddnijomsnhsro.

Orispjvysvybsjuuburijqdshngbihvjvjrosrtsvybjisiqab,sqoesjosqaarieqoab
pjvysvybsgibvbioqvniqdobhh,sqhsjvshbbube,spyjaysjosuqocsvyjomhsjozbhvbe
vybsGblnre,spbibsvybibspqovjomshrubsrtsvybshbqubospyrshpribsvyqv
pybobzbisqoespybibzbisebhaijbe;sqvsyrpbzbisiburvbsvjubh,srisjosyrpbzbi
tqisqgqivsdqvjvnebhsqoesdromjvnebh,svyqvsnoobqiqfdbshgrnvspqhsaqhvsfc
robshbdt-hqubspyqdb;sqoesvyqvspyqdb,sUrfcsEja .sTrisqsvjub,svybib
ibjmobe,svrr,sqshbohbsrtsgbandjqiseibqesqvsvyjhstdjvvjomsqggqijvjro,sqh
jtsjvspbibsvibqaybirnhdcsfba rojomsnhsrosqoesro,sjosriebisvyqvsvyb
urohvbisujmyvsvniosirnoesngrosnh,sqoesiboesnhsqvsdqhvsjosvybsiburvbhv
qoesurhvshqzqmbshbqh.

Vybhbsvbugriqicsqggibybohjroh,shrszqmnbsfnvshrsqptnd,sebijzbesq
proeirnhsgrvboacstirusvybsaroviqhvjomshbibojvcsrtsvybspbqvybi,sjo
pyjay,sfbobqvysqddsjvhsfdnbsfdqoeobhh,shrubsvyrnmyvsvybibsdni besq
ebzjdjhysayqiu,sqhstriseqchsqoeseqchspbszrcqmbesqdrom,svyirnmyshbqhshr
pbqijdc,sdrobhrubdcsujde,svyqvsqddshgqab,sjosibgnmoqoabsvrsrniszbombtnd
biiqoe,shbbubeszqaqvjomsjvhbdtsrtsdjtbsfbtribsrnisnio-dj bsgirp.

Fnv,sqvsdqhv,spybosvniojomsvrsvybsbqhvpqie,svybsAqgbspjoehsfbmqo
yrpdjomsqirnoesnh,sqoespbsirhbsqoestbddsngrosvybsdrom,svirnfdbeshbqh
vyqvsqibsvybib;spybosvybsjzric-vnh besGblnreshyqigdcsfrpbesvrsvyb
fdqhv,sqoesmribesvybseqi spqzbhsjosybisuqeobhh,svjdd,sdj bshyrpbihsrt
hjdzbisayjgh,svybstrqu-tdq bhstdbpsrzbisybisfndpqi h;svybosqddsvyjh
ebhrdqvbszqanjvcsrtsdjtbspbovsqpqc,sfnvsmqzbsgdqabsvrshjmyvhsurib
ejhuqdsvyqosfbtrib.

Adrhbsvrsrnisfrph,shviqombstriuhsjosvybspqvbiseqivbesyjvybisqoesvyjvybi
fbtribsnh;spyjdbsvyja sjosrnisibqistdbpsvybsjohainvqfdbshbq-iqzboh.sQoe
bzbicsuriojom,sgbiaybesrosrnishvqch,sirphsrtsvybhbsfjiehspbibshbbo;sqoe
hgjvbsrtsrnisyrrvjomh,strisqsdromsvjubsrfhvjoqvbdcsadnomsvrsvybsybug,
qhsvyrnmysvybcsebbubesrnishyjgshrubseijtvjom,snojoyqfjvbesaiqtv;sq
vyjomsqggrjovbesvrsebhrdqvjro,sqoesvybibtribstjvsirrhvjom-gdqabstri
vybjisyrubdbhhshbdzbh.sQoesybqzbesqoesybqzbe,shvjddsnoibhvjomdcsybqzbe
vybsfdqa shbq,sqhsjtsjvhszqhvsvjebhspbibsqsarohajboab;sqoesvybsmibqv
unoeqobshrndspbibsjosqomnjhysqoesiburihbstrisvybsdromshjosqoeshnttbijom
jvsyqesfibe.

AqgbsrtsMrresYrgb,sersvybcsaqddscb?sIqvybisAqgbsVriubovrhr,sqhsaqddbe
rtscrib;strisdromsqddnibesfcsvybsgbitjejrnhshjdboabhsvyqvsfbtribsyqe
qvvboebesnh,spbstrnoesrnihbdzbhsdqnoaybesjovrsvyjhsvriubovbeshbq,spybib
mnjdvcsfbjomhsviqohtriubesjovrsvyrhbstrpdhsqoesvybhbstjhy,shbbube
aroebuobesvrshpjusrosbzbidqhvjomdcspjvyrnvsqocsyqzbosjoshvrib,srisfbqv
vyqvsfdqa sqjispjvyrnvsqocsyrijwro.sFnvsaqdu,shorp-pyjvb,sqoe
nozqicjom;shvjddsejibavjomsjvhstrnovqjosrtstbqvybihsvrsvybsh c;shvjdd
fba rojomsnhsrostirusfbtrib,svybshrdjvqicskbvsprndesqvsvjubhsfb
ebhaijbe.

Enijomsqddsvyjhsfdqa obhhsrtsvybsbdbubovh,sQyqf,svyrnmysqhhnujomstri
vybsvjubsvybsqdurhvsarovjonqdsaruuqoesrtsvybseiboaybesqoeseqombirnh
eba ,suqojtbhvbesvybsmdrrujbhvsibhbizb;sqoesuribshbderusvyqosbzbi
qeeibhhbesyjhsuqvbh.sJosvbugbhvnrnhsvjubhsdj bsvybhb,sqtvbisbzbicvyjom
qfrzbsqoesqdrtvsyqhsfbboshbanibe,sorvyjomsuribsaqosfbserobsfnv
gqhhjzbdcsvrsqpqjvsvybsjhhnbsrtsvybsmqdb.sVybosAqgvqjosqoesaibpsfbarub
giqavjaqdstqvqdjhvh.sHr,spjvysyjhsjzricsdbmsjohbivbesjovrsjvh
qaanhvrubesyrdb,sqoespjvysrobsyqoestjiudcsmiqhgjomsqshyirne,sQyqfstri
yrnihsqoesyrnihsprndeshvqoesmqwjomsebqesvrspjoepqie,spyjdbsqo
raaqhjroqdshlnqddsrtshdbbvsrishorpsprndesqddsfnvsarombqdsyjhszbic
bcbdqhybhsvrmbvybi.sUbqovjub,svybsaibpseijzbostirusvybstripqiesgqivsrt
vybshyjgsfcsvybsgbijdrnhshbqhsvyqvsfnihvjomdcsfir bsrzbisjvhsfrph,
hvrresjosqsdjobsqdromsvybsfndpqi hsjosvybspqjhv;sqoesvybsfbvvbisvr
mnqiesqmqjohvsvybsdbqgjomspqzbh,sbqaysuqosyqeshdjggbesyjuhbdtsjovrsq
hrivsrtsfrpdjobshbanibesvrsvybsiqjd,sjospyjaysybshpnomsqhsjosqsdrrhbobe
fbdv.sTbpsrisorspriehspbibshgr bo;sqoesvybshjdbovshyjg,sqhsjtsuqoobesfc
gqjovbeshqjdrihsjospqx,seqcsqtvbiseqcsvribsrosvyirnmysqddsvybshpjtv
uqeobhhsqoesmdqeobhhsrtsvybseburojqaspqzbh.sFcsojmyvsvybshqubsunvbobhh
rtsynuqojvcsfbtribsvybshyijb hsrtsvybsrabqosgibzqjdbe;shvjddsjoshjdboab
vybsuboshpnomsjosvybsfrpdjobh;shvjddspriedbhhsQyqfshvrresngsvrsvyb
fdqhv.sBzbospybospbqijbesoqvnibshbbubesebuqoejomsibgrhbsybsprndesorv
hbb svyqvsibgrhbsjosyjhsyquura .sObzbisarndesHvqifna strimbvsvybsrde
uqo’hsqhgbav,spybosrobsojmyvsmrjomserposjovrsvybsaqfjosvrsuqi syrpsvyb
fqirubvbishvrre,sybshqpsyjuspjvysadrhbesbcbhshjvvjomshviqjmyvsjosyjh
tdrri-haibpbesayqji;svybsiqjosqoesyqdt-ubdvbeshdbbvsrtsvybshvriustiru
pyjaysybsyqeshrubsvjubsfbtribsbubimbe,shvjddshdrpdcseijggjomstirusvyb
noiburzbesyqvsqoesarqv.sRosvybsvqfdbsfbhjebsyjusdqcsnoirddbesrobsrt
vyrhbsayqivhsrtsvjebhsqoesaniibovhspyjaysyqzbsgibzjrnhdcsfbboshgr bo
rt.sYjhsdqovbioshpnomstirusyjhsvjmyvdcsadboaybesyqoe.sVyrnmysvybsfrec
pqhsbibav,svybsybqespqhsvyirposfqa shrsvyqvsvybsadrhbesbcbhspbib
grjovbesvrpqiehsvybsobbedbsrtsvybsvbdd-vqdbsvyqvshpnomstirusqsfbqusjo
vybsabjdjom.*

*Vybsaqfjo-arugqhhsjhsaqddbesvybsvbdd-vqdb,sfbaqnhbspjvyrnvsmrjomsvr
vybsarugqhhsqvsvybsybdu,svybsAqgvqjo,spyjdbsfbdrp,saqosjotriusyjuhbdt
rtsvybsarnihbsrtsvybshyjg.

Vbiijfdbsrdesuqo!svyrnmyvsHvqifna spjvysqshyneebi,shdbbgjomsjosvyjh
mqdb,shvjddsvyrnshvbqetqhvdcsbcbhvsvycsgnigrhb.


AYQGVBIs52.sVybsQdfqvirhh.

Hrnvy-bqhvpqiestirusvybsAqgb,srttsvybsejhvqovsAirwbvvh,sqsmrresainjhjom
mirnoestrisIjmyvsPyqdbubo,sqshqjdsdrrubesqybqe,svybsMrobcs(Qdfqvirhh)
fcsoqub.sQhshybshdrpdcseibpsojmy,stirusucsdrtvcsgbiaysqvsvyb
trib-uqhv-ybqe,sJsyqesqsmrreszjbpsrtsvyqvshjmyvshrsibuqi qfdbsvrsqsvcir
josvybstqisrabqostjhybijbh—qspyqdbisqvshbq,sqoesdromsqfhbovstirusyrub.

Qhsjtsvybspqzbhsyqesfbbostnddbih,svyjhsaiqtvspqhsfdbqaybesdj bsvyb
h bdbvrosrtsqshviqoebespqdinh.sQddserposybishjebh,svyjhshgbaviqd
qggbqiqoabspqhsviqabespjvysdromsayqoobdhsrtsibeebobesinhv,spyjdbsqdd
ybishgqihsqoesybisijmmjomspbibsdj bsvybsvyja sfiqoaybhsrtsvibbhstniibe
rzbispjvysyrqi-tirhv.sRodcsybisdrpbishqjdhspbibshbv.sQspjdeshjmyvsjv
pqhsvrshbbsybisdrom-fbqiebesdrr -rnvhsqvsvyrhbsvyibbsuqhv-ybqeh.sVybc
hbbubesadqesjosvybsh johsrtsfbqhvh,shrsvriosqoesfbgqvaybesvybsiqjubov
vyqvsyqeshnizjzbesobqidcstrniscbqihsrtsainjhjom.sHvqoejomsjosjirosyrrgh
oqjdbesvrsvybsuqhv,svybcshpqcbesqoeshpnomsrzbisqstqvyrudbhhshbq;sqoe
vyrnmy,spybosvybshyjgshdrpdcsmdjebesadrhbsnoebisrnishvbio,spbshjxsubo
josvybsqjisaqubshrsojmysvrsbqaysrvybisvyqvspbsujmyvsqdurhvsyqzbsdbqgbe
tirusvybsuqhv-ybqehsrtsrobshyjgsvrsvyrhbsrtsvybsrvybi;scbv,svyrhb
tridrio-drr jomstjhybiubo,sujdedcsbcbjomsnhsqhsvybcsgqhhbe,shqjesorv
robspriesvrsrnisrposdrr -rnvh,spyjdbsvybslnqivbi-eba syqjdspqhsfbjom
ybqiestirusfbdrp.

“Hyjgsqyrc!sYqzbscbshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

Fnvsqhsvybshviqombsaqgvqjo,sdbqojomsrzbisvybsgqddjesfndpqi h,spqhsjo
vybsqavsrtsgnvvjomsyjhsvinugbvsvrsyjhsurnvy,sjvshrubyrpstbddstirusyjh
yqoesjovrsvybshbq;sqoesvybspjoesorpsijhjomsquqjo,sybsjoszqjoshvirzbsvr
uq bsyjuhbdtsybqiespjvyrnvsjv.sUbqovjubsyjhshyjgspqhshvjddsjoaibqhjom
vybsejhvqoabsfbvpbbo.sPyjdbsjoszqijrnhshjdbovspqchsvybshbqubosrtsvyb
Gblnrespbibsbzjoajomsvybjisrfhbizqoabsrtsvyjhsrujornhsjoajebovsqvsvyb
tjihvsubibsubovjrosrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb’hsoqubsvrsqorvybishyjg,sQyqfstri
qsurubovsgqnhbe;sjvsqdurhvshbbubesqhsvyrnmysybsprndesyqzbsdrpbibesq
frqvsvrsfrqiesvybshviqombi,syqesorvsvybsvyibqvbojomspjoestrifqeb.sFnv
vq jomsqezqovqmbsrtsyjhspjoepqiesgrhjvjro,sybsqmqjoshbjwbesyjhsvinugbv,
qoes orpjomsfcsybisqhgbavsvyqvsvybshviqombiszbhhbdspqhsqsOqovna bvbi
qoeshyrivdcsfrnoesyrub,sybsdrnedcsyqjdbe—“Qyrcsvybib!sVyjhsjhsvyb
Gblnre,sfrnoesirnoesvybspride!sVbddsvybusvrsqeeibhhsqddstnvnibsdbvvbih
vrsvybsGqajtjasrabqo!sqoesvyjhsvjubsvyibbscbqih,sjtsJsqusorvsqvsyrub,
vbddsvybusvrsqeeibhhsvybusvrs——”

Qvsvyqvsurubovsvybsvprspq bhspbibstqjidcsairhhbe,sqoesjohvqovdc,svybo,
josqaarieqoabspjvysvybjishjomndqispqch,shyrqdhsrtshuqddsyqiudbhhstjhy,
vyqvstrishrubseqchsfbtribsyqesfbbosgdqajedcshpjuujomsfcsrnishjeb,
eqivbesqpqcspjvyspyqvshbbubeshyneebijomstjoh,sqoesiqombesvybuhbdzbh
tribsqoesqtvspjvysvybshviqombi’hstdqo h.sVyrnmysjosvybsarnihbsrtsyjh
arovjonqdszrcqmjomhsQyqfsunhvsrtvbosfbtribsyqzbsorvjabesqshjujdqi
hjmyv,scbv,svrsqocsuroruqojqasuqo,svybszbijbhvsvijtdbhsaqgijajrnhdc
aqiicsubqojomh.

“Hpjusqpqcstirusub,serscb?”suniunibesQyqf,smqwjomsrzbisjovrsvybspqvbi.
Vybibshbbubesfnvsdjvvdbsjosvybsprieh,sfnvsvybsvrobsarozbcbesuribsrt
ebbgsybdgdbhhshqeobhhsvyqosvybsjohqobsrdesuqosyqesbzbisfbtribsbzjoabe.
Fnvsvniojomsvrsvybshvbbihuqo,spyrsvynhstqisyqesfbbosyrdejomsvybshyjgsjo
vybspjoesvrsejujojhysybisybqepqc,sybsaijbesrnvsjosyjhsrdesdjro
zrjab,—“Ngsybdu!s bbgsybisrttsirnoesvybspride!”

Irnoesvybspride!sVybibsjhsunaysjosvyqvshrnoesvrsjohgjibsgirnestbbdjomh;
fnvspybibvrserbhsqddsvyqvsajianuoqzjmqvjrosaroenav?sRodcsvyirnmy
onufbidbhhsgbijdhsvrsvybszbicsgrjovspyboabspbshvqivbe,spybibsvyrhbsvyqv
pbsdbtvsfbyjoeshbanib,spbibsqddsvybsvjubsfbtribsnh.

Pbibsvyjhspridesqosboedbhhsgdqjo,sqoesfcshqjdjomsbqhvpqiespbsarndestri
bzbisibqaysobpsejhvqoabh,sqoesejharzbishjmyvhsuribshpbbvsqoeshviqomb
vyqosqocsAcadqebhsrisJhdqoehsrts jomsHrdruro,svybosvybibspbibsgirujhb
josvybszrcqmb.sFnvsjosgnihnjvsrtsvyrhbstqisuchvbijbhspbseibqusrt,srisjo
vriubovbesayqhbsrtsvyqvseburosgyqovrusvyqv,shrubsvjubsrisrvybi,shpjuh
fbtribsqddsynuqosybqivh;spyjdbsayqhjomshnaysrzbisvyjhsirnoesmdrfb,svybc
bjvybisdbqesnhsrosjosfqiibosuqwbhsrisujepqcsdbqzbsnhspybdube.


AYQGVBIs53.sVybsMqu.

VybsrhvbohjfdbsibqhrospycsQyqfsejesorvsmrsrosfrqiesrtsvybspyqdbispbsyqe
hgr bospqhsvyjh:svybspjoesqoeshbqsfbvr bobeshvriuh.sFnvsbzbosyqesvyjh
orvsfbbosvybsaqhb,sybsprndesorvsqtvbisqdd,sgbiyqgh,syqzbsfrqiebe
ybi—knemjomsfcsyjhshnfhblnbovsaroenavsroshjujdqisraaqhjroh—jtshrsjvsyqe
fbbosvyqv,sfcsvybsgirabhhsrtsyqjdjom,sybsyqesrfvqjobesqsobmqvjzbsqohpbi
vrsvybslnbhvjrosybsgnv.sTri,sqhsjvsbzbovnqddcsvniobesrnv,sybsaqibesorv
vrsarohriv,sbzbostristjzbsujonvbh,spjvysqocshviqombisaqgvqjo,sbxabgvsyb
arndesarovijfnvbshrubsrtsvyqvsjotriuqvjrosybshrsqfhrifjomdcshrnmyv.sFnv
qddsvyjhsujmyvsibuqjosjoqeblnqvbdcsbhvjuqvbe,spbibsorvshrubvyjomshqje
ybibsrtsvybsgbandjqisnhqmbhsrtspyqdjom-zbhhbdhspybosubbvjomsbqaysrvybi
jostribjmoshbqh,sqoesbhgbajqddcsrosqsaruurosainjhjom-mirnoe.

JtsvprshviqombihsairhhjomsvybsGjobsFqiibohsjosObpsCri sHvqvb,srisvyb
blnqddcsebhrdqvbsHqdjhfnicsGdqjosjosBomdqoe;sjtsaqhnqddcsboarnovbijom
bqaysrvybisjoshnaysjoyrhgjvqfdbspjdeh,svybhbsvpqjo,strisvybsdjtbsrt
vybu,saqoorvspbddsqzrjesqsunvnqdshqdnvqvjro;sqoeshvrggjomstrisqsurubov
vrsjovbiayqombsvybsobph;sqoe,sgbiyqgh,shjvvjomserpostrisqspyjdbsqoe
ibhvjomsjosaroabiv:svybo,syrpsunaysuribsoqvniqdsvyqvsngrosvyb
jddjujvqfdbsGjobsFqiibohsqoesHqdjhfnicsGdqjohsrtsvybshbq,svprspyqdjom
zbhhbdhsebhaicjomsbqaysrvybisqvsvybsboehsrtsvybsbqivy—rttsdrob
Tqoojom’hsJhdqoe,srisvybstqisqpqcs jom’hsUjddh;syrpsunaysuribsoqvniqd,
Jshqc,svyqvsnoebishnaysajianuhvqoabhsvybhbshyjghshyrndesorvsrodc
jovbiayqombsyqjdh,sfnvsarubsjovrshvjddsadrhbi,suribstijboedcsqoe
hrajqfdbsarovqav.sQoesbhgbajqddcsprndesvyjhshbbusvrsfbsqsuqvvbisrt
arnihb,sjosvybsaqhbsrtszbhhbdhsrpobesjosrobshbqgriv,sqoespyrhb
aqgvqjoh,srttjabih,sqoesorvsqstbpsrtsvybsubosqibsgbihroqddcs orposvr
bqaysrvybi;sqoesarohblnbovdc,syqzbsqddshrivhsrtsebqiserubhvjasvyjomhsvr
vqd sqfrnv.

Trisvybsdromsqfhbovshyjg,svybsrnvpqie-frnoebi,sgbiyqgh,syqhsdbvvbihsro
frqie;sqvsqocsiqvb,shybspjddsfbshnibsvrsdbvsybisyqzbshrubsgqgbihsrtsq
eqvbsqscbqisrisvprsdqvbisvyqosvybsdqhvsrobsrosybisfdniibesqoe
vynuf-priostjdbh.sQoesjosibvniostrisvyqvsarnivbhc,svybsrnvpqie-frnoe
hyjgsprndesibabjzbsvybsdqvbhvspyqdjomsjovbddjmboabstirusvyb
ainjhjom-mirnoesvrspyjayshybsuqcsfbsebhvjobe,sqsvyjomsrtsvybsnvurhv
jugrivqoabsvrsybi.sQoesjosebmibb,sqddsvyjhspjddsyrdesvinbsaroabiojom
pyqdjomszbhhbdhsairhhjomsbqaysrvybi’hsviqa srosvybsainjhjom-mirnoe
jvhbdt,sbzbosvyrnmysvybcsqibsblnqddcsdromsqfhbovstirusyrub.sTrisrobsrt
vybusuqcsyqzbsibabjzbesqsviqohtbisrtsdbvvbihstirushrubsvyjie,sqoesorp
tqisiburvbszbhhbd;sqoeshrubsrtsvyrhbsdbvvbihsuqcsfbstrisvybsgbrgdbsrt
vybshyjgshybsorpsubbvh.sFbhjebh,svybcsprndesbxayqombsvybspyqdjomsobph,
qoesyqzbsqosqmibbqfdbsayqv.sTrisorvsrodcsprndesvybcsubbvspjvysqddsvyb
hcugqvyjbhsrtshqjdrih,sfnvsdj bpjhbspjvysqddsvybsgbandjqi
arombojqdjvjbhsqijhjomstirusqsaruurosgnihnjvsqoesunvnqddcshyqibe
gijzqvjrohsqoesgbijdh.

Orisprndesejttbiboabsrtsarnovicsuq bsqocszbicsbhhbovjqdsejttbiboab;
vyqvsjh,shrsdromsqhsfrvysgqivjbhshgbq srobsdqomnqmb,sqhsjhsvybsaqhb
pjvysQubijaqohsqoesBomdjhy.sVyrnmy,svrsfbshnib,stirusvybshuqddsonufbi
rtsBomdjhyspyqdbih,shnaysubbvjomhsersorvszbicsrtvbosraani,sqoespybo
vybcsersraanisvybibsjhsvrrsqgvsvrsfbsqshrivsrtshycobhhsfbvpbbosvybu;
triscrnisBomdjhyuqosjhsiqvybisibhbizbe,sqoescrnisCqo bb,sybserbhsorv
tqoacsvyqvshrivsrtsvyjomsjosqocfrecsfnvsyjuhbdt.sFbhjebh,svybsBomdjhy
pyqdbihshrubvjubhsqttbavsqs joesrtsubvirgrdjvqoshngbijrijvcsrzbisvyb
Qubijaqospyqdbih;sibmqiejomsvybsdrom,sdbqosOqovna bvbi,spjvysyjh
oroebhaijgvsgirzjoajqdjhuh,sqhsqshrivsrtshbq-gbqhqov.sFnvspybibsvyjh
hngbijrijvcsjosvybsBomdjhyspyqdbuboserbhsibqddcsarohjhv,sjvsprndesfb
yqiesvrshqc,shbbjomsvyqvsvybsCqo bbhsjosrobseqc,sarddbavjzbdc,s jdd
uribspyqdbhsvyqosqddsvybsBomdjhy,sarddbavjzbdc,sjosvboscbqih.sFnvsvyjh
jhsqsyqiudbhhsdjvvdbstrjfdbsjosvybsBomdjhyspyqdb-ynovbih,spyjaysvyb
Oqovna bvbiserbhsorvsvq bsunaysvrsybqiv;sgirfqfdc,sfbaqnhbsybs orph
vyqvsybsyqhsqstbpstrjfdbhsyjuhbdt.

Hr,svybo,spbshbbsvyqvsrtsqddshyjghshbgqiqvbdcshqjdjomsvybshbq,svyb
pyqdbihsyqzbsurhvsibqhrosvrsfbshrajqfdb—qoesvybcsqibshr.sPybibqh,shrub
ubiayqovshyjghsairhhjomsbqaysrvybi’hspq bsjosvybsuje-Qvdqovja,spjdd
rtvbovjubhsgqhhsrospjvyrnvshrsunaysqhsqshjomdbspriesrtsibarmojvjro,
unvnqddcsanvvjomsbqaysrvybisrosvybsyjmyshbqh,sdj bsqsfiqabsrtseqoejbh
josFirqepqc;sqoesqddsvybsvjubsjoendmjom,sgbiyqgh,sjostjojaqdsaijvjajhu
ngrosbqaysrvybi’hsijm.sQhstrisUbo-rt-Pqi,spybosvybcsayqoabsvrsubbvsqv
hbq,svybcstjihvsmrsvyirnmyshnaysqshvijomsrtshjddcsfrpjomhsqoe
haiqgjomh,shnaysqsena jomsrtsbohjmoh,svyqvsvybibserbhsorvshbbusvrsfb
unaysijmyv-erposybqivcsmrre-pjddsqoesfirvybidcsdrzbsqfrnvsjvsqvsqdd.sQh
vrnayjomsHdqzb-hyjghsubbvjom,spyc,svybcsqibsjoshnaysqsgirejmjrnhsyniic,
vybcsinosqpqcstirusbqaysrvybisqhshrrosqhsgrhhjfdb.sQoesqhstrisGjiqvbh,
pybosvybcsayqoabsvrsairhhsbqaysrvybi’hsairhh-frobh,svybstjihvsyqjd
jh—“Yrpsuqocsh nddh?”—vybshqubspqcsvyqvspyqdbihsyqjd—“Yrpsuqoc
fqiibdh?”sQoesvyqvslnbhvjrosroabsqohpbibe,sgjiqvbhshviqjmyvpqcshvbbi
qgqiv,strisvybcsqibsjotbioqdszjddqjohsrosfrvyshjebh,sqoesero’vsdj bsvr
hbbsrzbiunaysrtsbqaysrvybi’hszjddqornhsdj bobhhbh.

Fnvsdrr sqvsvybsmredc,syrobhv,snorhvbovqvjrnh,syrhgjvqfdb,shrajqfdb,
tibb-qoe-bqhcspyqdbi!sPyqvserbhsvybspyqdbiserspyboshybsubbvhsqorvybi
pyqdbisjosqocshrivsrtsebabovspbqvybi?sHybsyqhsqs“_Mqu_,”sqsvyjomshr
nvvbidcsno orposvrsqddsrvybishyjghsvyqvsvybcsobzbisybqiesrtsvybsoqub
bzbo;sqoesjtsfcsayqoabsvybcshyrndesybqisrtsjv,svybcsrodcsmijosqvsjv,
qoesibgbqvsmqubhrubshvnttsqfrnvs“hgrnvbih”sqoes“fdnffbi-frjdbih,”sqoe
hnaysdj bsgibvvcsbxadquqvjroh.sPycsjvsjhsvyqvsqddsUbiayqov-hbqubo,sqoe
qdhrsqddsGjiqvbhsqoesUqo-rt-Pqi’hsubo,sqoesHdqzb-hyjgshqjdrih,saybijhy
hnaysqshariotndstbbdjomsvrpqiehsPyqdb-hyjgh;svyjhsjhsqslnbhvjrosjv
prndesfbsyqiesvrsqohpbi.sFbaqnhb,sjosvybsaqhbsrtsgjiqvbh,shqc,sJshyrnde
dj bsvrs orpspybvybisvyqvsgirtbhhjrosrtsvybjihsyqhsqocsgbandjqismdric
qfrnvsjv.sJvshrubvjubhsboehsjosnoaruurosbdbzqvjro,sjoebbe;sfnvsrodcsqv
vybsmqddrph.sQoesfbhjebh,spybosqsuqosjhsbdbzqvbesjosvyqvsreestqhyjro,
ybsyqhsorsgirgbistrnoeqvjrostrisyjhshngbijrisqdvjvneb.sYboab,sJ
aroadneb,svyqvsjosfrqhvjomsyjuhbdtsvrsfbsyjmysdjtvbesqfrzbsqspyqdbuqo,
josvyqvsqhhbivjrosvybsgjiqvbsyqhsorshrdjesfqhjhsvrshvqoesro.

Fnvspyqvsjhsqs_Mqu?_sCrnsujmyvspbqisrnvscrnisjoebx-tjombisinoojomsng
qoeserposvybsardnuohsrtsejavjroqijbh,sqoesobzbistjoesvybsprie.sEi.
Kryohrosobzbisqvvqjobesvrsvyqvsbinejvjro;sOrqysPbfhvbi’hsqi serbhsorv
yrdesjv.sObzbivybdbhh,svyjhshqubsbxgibhhjzbspriesyqhsorpstrisuqocscbqih
fbbosjosarohvqovsnhbsquromshrubstjtvbbosvyrnhqoesvinbsfriosCqo bbh.
Abivqjodc,sjvsobbehsqsebtjojvjro,sqoeshyrndesfbsjoarigriqvbesjovrsvyb
Dbxjaro.sPjvysvyqvszjbp,sdbvsubsdbqiobedcsebtjobsjv.

MQU.sORNO—_Qshrajqdsubbvjomsrtsvpr_s(_risurib_)s_Pyqdbhyjgh,smbobiqddc
rosqsainjhjom-mirnoe;spybo,sqtvbisbxayqomjomsyqjdh,svybcsbxayqomb
zjhjvhsfcsfrqvh’saibph:svybsvprsaqgvqjohsibuqjojom,strisvybsvjub,sro
frqiesrtsrobshyjg,sqoesvybsvprsayjbtsuqvbhsrosvybsrvybi._

VybibsjhsqorvybisdjvvdbsjvbusqfrnvsMquujomspyjaysunhvsorvsfbstrimrvvbo
ybib.sQddsgirtbhhjrohsyqzbsvybjisrposdjvvdbsgbandjqijvjbhsrtsebvqjd;shr
yqhsvybspyqdbstjhybic.sJosqsgjiqvb,suqo-rt-pqi,srishdqzbshyjg,spybosvyb
aqgvqjosjhsirpbesqocpybibsjosyjhsfrqv,sybsqdpqchshjvhsjosvybshvbio
hybbvhsrosqsarutrivqfdb,shrubvjubhsanhyjrobeshbqvsvybib,sqoesrtvbo
hvbbihsyjuhbdtspjvysqsgibvvcsdjvvdbsujddjobi’hsvjddbisebariqvbespjvy
mqcsariehsqoesijffroh.sFnvsvybspyqdb-frqvsyqhsorshbqvsqhvbio,sorshrtq
rtsvyqvshrivspyqvbzbi,sqoesorsvjddbisqvsqdd.sYjmysvjubhsjoebbe,sjt
pyqdjomsaqgvqjohspbibspybbdbesqfrnvsvybspqvbisrosaqhvrihsdj bsmrnvcsrde
qdebiubosjosgqvbovsayqjih.sQoesqhstrisqsvjddbi,svybspyqdb-frqvsobzbi
qeujvhsrtsqocshnaysbttbujoqac;sqoesvybibtribsqhsjosmquujomsqsarugdbvb
frqv’hsaibpsunhvsdbqzbsvybshyjg,sqoesyboabsqhsvybsfrqvshvbbibisri
yqigrrobbisjhsrtsvybsonufbi,svyqvshnfriejoqvbsjhsvybshvbbihuqosngrosvyb
raaqhjro,sqoesvybsaqgvqjo,syqzjomsorsgdqabsvrshjvsjo,sjhsgnddbesrttsvr
yjhszjhjvsqddshvqoejomsdj bsqsgjobsvibb.sQoesrtvboscrnspjddsorvjabsvyqv
fbjomsarohajrnhsrtsvybsbcbhsrtsvybspyrdbszjhjfdbspridesibhvjomsrosyju
tirusvybshjebhsrtsvybsvprshyjgh,svyjhshvqoejomsaqgvqjosjhsqddsqdjzbsvr
vybsjugrivqoabsrtshnhvqjojomsyjhsejmojvcsfcsuqjovqjojomsyjhsdbmh.sOri
jhsvyjhsqocszbicsbqhcsuqvvbi;strisjosyjhsibqisjhsvybsjuubohbsgirkbavjom
hvbbijomsrqisyjvvjomsyjusorpsqoesvybosjosvybshuqddsrtsyjhsfqa ,svyb
qtvbi-rqisibajgiraqvjomsfcsiqggjomsyjhs obbhsjostirov.sYbsjhsvynh
arugdbvbdcspbembesfbtribsqoesfbyjoe,sqoesaqosrodcsbxgqoesyjuhbdt
hjebpqchsfcshbvvdjomserposrosyjhshvibvaybesdbmh;sfnvsqshneebo,szjrdbov
gjvaysrtsvybsfrqvspjddsrtvbosmrstqisvrsvrggdbsyju,sfbaqnhbsdbomvysrt
trnoeqvjrosjhsorvyjomspjvyrnvsariibhgroejomsfibqevy.sUbibdcsuq bsq
hgibqesqomdbsrtsvprsgrdbh,sqoescrnsaqoorvshvqoesvybusng.sVybo,sqmqjo,
jvsprndesobzbisersjosgdqjoshjmyvsrtsvybspride’hsijzbvbesbcbh,sjvsprnde
obzbiser,sJshqc,strisvyjhshviqeedjomsaqgvqjosvrsfbshbboshvbqecjom
yjuhbdtsvybshdjmyvbhvsgqivjadbsfcsaqvayjomsyrdesrtsqocvyjomspjvysyjh
yqoeh;sjoebbe,sqhsvr bosrtsyjhsbovjib,sfnrcqovshbdt-aruuqoe,syb
mbobiqddcsaqiijbhsyjhsyqoehsjosyjhsvirphbih’sgra bvh;sfnvsgbiyqghsfbjom
mbobiqddcszbicsdqimb,sybqzcsyqoeh,sybsaqiijbhsvybusvybibstrisfqddqhv.
Obzbivybdbhhsvybibsyqzbsraaniibesjohvqoabh,spbddsqnvybovjaqvbesrobh
vrr,spybibsvybsaqgvqjosyqhsfbbos orpostrisqosnoaruurodcsaijvjaqdsurubov
risvpr,sjosqshneeboshlnqddshqc—vrshbjwbsyrdesrtsvybsobqibhvsrqihuqo’h
yqji,sqoesyrdesrosvybibsdj bsmijusebqvy.


AYQGVBIs54.sVybsVrpo-Yr’hsHvric.

(_QhsvrdesqvsvybsMrdebosJoo._)

VybsAqgbsrtsMrresYrgb,sqoesqddsvybspqvbicsibmjrosirnoesqfrnvsvybib,sjh
unaysdj bshrubsorvbestrnisariobihsrtsqsmibqvsyjmypqc,spybibscrnsubbv
uribsviqzbddbihsvyqosjosqocsrvybisgqiv.

Jvspqhsorvszbicsdromsqtvbishgbq jomsvybsMrobcsvyqvsqorvybi
yrubpqie-frnoespyqdbuqo,svybsVrpo-Yr,*spqhsboarnovbibe.sHybspqhsuqoobe
qdurhvspyrddcsfcsGrdcobhjqoh.sJosvybshyrivsmqusvyqvsbohnbeshybsmqzbsnh
hviromsobphsrtsUrfcsEja .sVrshrubsvybsmbobiqdsjovbibhvsjosvybsPyjvb
PyqdbspqhsorpspjdedcsybjmyvbobesfcsqsajianuhvqoabsrtsvybsVrpo-Yr’h
hvric,spyjayshbbubesrfhanibdcsvrsjozrdzbspjvysvybspyqdbsqsabivqjo
proeirnh,sjozbivbeszjhjvqvjrosrtsrobsrtsvyrhbshrsaqddbesknemubovhsrt
Mrespyjaysqvsvjubhsqibshqjesvrsrzbivq bshrubsubo.sVyjhsdqvvbi
ajianuhvqoab,spjvysjvhsrposgqivjandqisqaarugqojubovh,striujomspyqvsuqc
fbsaqddbesvybshbaibvsgqivsrtsvybsviqmbecsqfrnvsvrsfbsoqiiqvbe,sobzbi
ibqaybesvybsbqihsrtsAqgvqjosQyqfsrisyjhsuqvbh.sTrisvyqvshbaibvsgqivsrt
vybshvricspqhsno orposvrsvybsaqgvqjosrtsvybsVrpo-Yrsyjuhbdt.sJvspqhsvyb
gijzqvbsgirgbivcsrtsvyibbsarotbebiqvbspyjvbshbqubosrtsvyqvshyjg,srobsrt
pyru,sjvshbbuh,saruunojaqvbesjvsvrsVqhyvbmrspjvysIrujhysjoknoavjrohsrt
hbaibac,sfnvsvybstrddrpjomsojmyvsVqhyvbmrsiqufdbesjosyjhshdbbg,sqoe
ibzbqdbeshrsunaysrtsjvsjosvyqvspqc,svyqvspybosybspqhspq bobesybsarnde
orvspbddspjvyyrdesvybsibhv.sObzbivybdbhh,shrsgrvbovsqosjotdnboabseje
vyjhsvyjomsyqzbsrosvyrhbshbqubosjosvybsGblnrespyrsaqubsvrsvybstndd
 orpdbembsrtsjv,sqoesfcshnaysqshviqombsebdjaqac,svrsaqddsjvshr,spbib
vybcsmrzbiobesjosvyjhsuqvvbi,svyqvsvybcs bgvsvybshbaibvsqurom
vybuhbdzbhshrsvyqvsjvsobzbisviqohgjibesqfqtvsvybsGblnre’hsuqjo-uqhv.
Jovbipbqzjomsjosjvhsgirgbisgdqabsvyjhseqi bisvyibqespjvysvybshvricsqh
gnfdjadcsoqiiqvbesrosvybshyjg,svybspyrdbsrtsvyjhshviqombsqttqjisJsorp
girabbesvrsgnvsrosdqhvjomsibarie.

*Vybsqoajbovspyqdb-aicsngrostjihvshjmyvjomsqspyqdbstirusvybsuqhv-ybqe,
hvjddsnhbesfcspyqdbubosjosynovjomsvybstqurnhsMqddjgqmrhsvbiiqgjo.

Trisucsynuri’hshq b,sJshyqddsgibhbizbsvybshvcdbsjospyjaysJsroab
oqiiqvbesjvsqvsDjuq,svrsqsdrnomjomsajiadbsrtsucsHgqojhystijboeh,srob
hqjov’hsbzb,shur jomsngrosvybsvyja -mjdvsvjdbesgjqwwqsrtsvybsMrdebo
Joo.sRtsvyrhbstjobsaqzqdjbih,svybscrnomsEroh,sGbeirsqoesHbfqhvjqo,spbib
rosvybsadrhbisvbiuhspjvysub;sqoesyboabsvybsjovbidnejomslnbhvjrohsvybc
raaqhjroqddcsgnv,sqoespyjaysqibsendcsqohpbibesqvsvybsvjub.

“HrubsvprscbqihsgijrisvrsucstjihvsdbqiojomsvybsbzbovhspyjaysJsqusqfrnv
ibybqihjomsvrscrn,smbovdbubo,svybsVrpo-Yr,sHgbiusPyqdbisrtsOqovna bv,
pqhsainjhjomsjoscrnisGqajtjasybib,sorvszbicsuqocseqch’shqjdsbqhvpqie
tirusvybsbqzbhsrtsvyjhsmrresMrdebosJoo.sHybspqhshrubpybibsvrsvyb
orivypqiesrtsvybsDjob.sRobsuriojomsngrosyqoedjomsvybsgnugh,sqaariejom
vrseqjdcsnhqmb,sjvspqhsrfhbizbesvyqvshybsuqebsuribspqvbisjosybisyrde
vyqosaruuro.sVybcshnggrhbesqshprie-tjhysyqeshvqffbesybi,smbovdbubo.sFnv
vybsaqgvqjo,syqzjomshrubsnonhnqdsibqhrostrisfbdjbzjomsvyqvsiqibsmrre
dna sqpqjvbesyjusjosvyrhbsdqvjvnebh;sqoesvybibtribsfbjomszbicsqzbihbsvr
lnjvsvybu,sqoesvybsdbq sorvsfbjomsvybosarohjebibesqvsqddseqombirnh,
vyrnmy,sjoebbe,svybcsarndesorvstjoesjvsqtvbishbqiayjomsvybsyrdesqhsdrp
erposqhspqhsgrhhjfdbsjosiqvybisybqzcspbqvybi,svybshyjgshvjddsarovjonbe
ybisainjhjomh,svybsuqijobihspri jomsqvsvybsgnughsqvspjebsqoesbqhc
jovbizqdh;sfnvsorsmrresdna saqub;suribseqchspbovsfc,sqoesorvsrodcspqh
vybsdbq scbvsnoejharzbibe,sfnvsjvshbohjfdcsjoaibqhbe.sHrsunayshr,svyqv
orpsvq jomshrubsqdqiu,svybsaqgvqjo,suq jomsqddshqjd,shvrresqpqcstrisvyb
obqibhvsyqifrisquromsvybsjhdqoeh,svybibsvrsyqzbsyjhsynddsyrzbsrnvsqoe
ibgqjibe.

“Vyrnmysorshuqddsgqhhqmbspqhsfbtribsybi,scbv,sjtsvybsaruurobhvsayqoab
tqzrnibe,sybsejesorvsqvsqddstbqisvyqvsyjhshyjgsprndestrnoebisfcsvyb
pqc,sfbaqnhbsyjhsgnughspbibsrtsvybsfbhv,sqoesfbjomsgbijrejaqddc
ibdjbzbesqvsvybu,svyrhbshjx-qoe-vyjivcsubosrtsyjhsarndesbqhjdcs bbgsvyb
hyjgstibb;sobzbisujoesjtsvybsdbq shyrndesernfdbsrosybi.sJosvinvy,spbdd
ojmysvybspyrdbsrtsvyjhsgqhhqmbsfbjomsqvvboebesfcszbicsgirhgbirnh
fibbwbh,svybsVrpo-Yrsyqesqddsfnvsabivqjodcsqiijzbesjosgbitbavshqtbvcsqv
ybisgrivspjvyrnvsvybsraaniiboabsrtsvybsdbqhvstqvqdjvc,syqesjvsorvsfbbo
trisvybsfinvqdsrzbifbqijomsrtsIqeobc,svybsuqvb,sqsZjobcqiebi,sqoesvyb
fjvvbidcsgirzr beszbombqoabsrtsHvbbd jdv,sqsDq buqosqoesebhgbiqerstiru
Fnttqdr.

“‘Dq buqo!—Fnttqdr!sGiqc,spyqvsjhsqsDq buqo,sqoespybibsjhsFnttqdr?’
hqjesErosHbfqhvjqo,sijhjomsjosyjhshpjomjomsuqvsrtsmiqhh.

“RosvybsbqhvbioshyribsrtsrnisDq bsBijb,sEro;sfnv—Jsaiqzbscrni
arnivbhc—uqcsfb,scrnshyqddshrrosybqistnivybisrtsqddsvyqv.sOrp,
mbovdbubo,sjoshlnqib-hqjdsfijmhsqoesvyibb-uqhvbeshyjgh,spbdd-ojmysqh
dqimbsqoeshvrnvsqhsqocsvyqvsbzbishqjdbesrnvsrtscrnisrdesAqddqrsvrstqi
Uqojddq;svyjhsDq buqo,sjosvybsdqoe-dra besybqivsrtsrnisQubijaq,syqescbv
fbbosonivnibesfcsqddsvyrhbsqmiqijqostibbfrrvjomsjugibhhjrohsgrgndqidc
aroobavbespjvysvybsrgbosrabqo.sTrisjosvybjisjovbitdrpjomsqmmibmqvb,
vyrhbsmiqoestibhy-pqvbishbqhsrtsrnih,—Bijb,sqoesRovqijr,sqoesYniro,sqoe
Hngbijri,sqoesUjayjmqo,—grhhbhhsqosrabqo-dj bsbxgqohjzbobhh,spjvysuqoc
rtsvybsrabqo’hsorfdbhvsviqjvh;spjvysuqocsrtsjvhsijuubeszqijbvjbhsrt
iqabhsqoesrtsadjubh.sVybcsarovqjosirnoesqiayjgbdqmrbhsrtsiruqovja
jhdbh,sbzbosqhsvybsGrdcobhjqospqvbihser;sjosdqimbsgqiv,sqibshyribesfc
vprsmibqvsaroviqhvjomsoqvjroh,sqhsvybsQvdqovjasjh;svybcstniojhysdrom
uqijvjubsqggirqaybhsvrsrnisonubirnhsvbiijvrijqdsardrojbhstirusvybsBqhv,
ervvbesqddsirnoesvybjisfqo h;sybibsqoesvybibsqibstirpobesngrosfc
fqvvbijbh,sqoesfcsvybsmrqv-dj bsaiqmmcsmnohsrtsdrtvcsUqa joqp;svybc
yqzbsybqiesvybstdbbvsvynoebijomhsrtsoqzqdszjavrijbh;sqvsjovbizqdh,svybc
cjbdesvybjisfbqaybhsvrspjdesfqifqijqoh,spyrhbsibesgqjovbestqabhstdqhy
tirusrnvsvybjisgbdvicspjmpquh;strisdbqmnbhsqoesdbqmnbhsqibstdqo besfc
qoajbovsqoesnobovbibestribhvh,spybibsvybsmqnovsgjobhshvqoesdj bshbiijbe
djobhsrts jomhsjosMrvyjasmbobqdrmjbh;svyrhbshqubsprrehsyqifrijomspjde
Qtijasfbqhvhsrtsgibc,sqoeshjd bosaibqvnibhspyrhbsbxgrivbestnihsmjzb
irfbhsvrsVqivqisBugbirih;svybcsujiirisvybsgqzbesaqgjvqdhsrtsFnttqdrsqoe
Adbzbdqoe,sqhspbddsqhsPjoobfqmrszjddqmbh;svybcstdrqvsqdj bsvyb
tndd-ijmmbesubiayqovshyjg,svybsqiubesainjhbisrtsvybsHvqvb,svybshvbqubi,
qoesvybsfbbaysaqorb;svybcsqibshpbgvsfcsFribqosqoesejhuqhvjomsfdqhvhsqh
ejibtndsqhsqocsvyqvsdqhysvybshqdvbespqzb;svybcs orpspyqvshyjgpiba h
qib,strisrnvsrtshjmyvsrtsdqoe,syrpbzbisjodqoe,svybcsyqzbseirpobestndd
uqocsqsujeojmyvshyjgspjvysqddsjvhshyijb jomsaibp.sVynh,smbovdbubo,
vyrnmysqosjodqoebi,sHvbbd jdvspqhspjde-rabqosfrio,sqoespjde-rabqo
onivnibe;sqhsunaysrtsqosqneqajrnhsuqijobisqhsqoc.sQoestrisIqeobc,
vyrnmysjosyjhsjotqoacsybsuqcsyqzbsdqjesyjuserposrosvybsdrobsOqovna bv
fbqay,svrsonihbsqvsyjhsuqvbioqdshbq;svyrnmysjosqtvbisdjtbsybsyqesdrom
trddrpbesrnisqnhvbibsQvdqovjasqoescrnisarovbugdqvjzbsGqajtja;scbvspqh
ybslnjvbsqhszbombtndsqoestnddsrtshrajqdslnqiibdsqhsvybsfqa prreh
hbquqo,stibhystirusvybsdqvjvnebhsrtsfna -yriosyqoedbesFrpjb- ojzbh.sCbv
pqhsvyjhsOqovna bvbisqsuqospjvyshrubsmrre-ybqivbesviqjvh;sqoesvyjh
Dq buqo,sqsuqijobi,spyrsvyrnmysqshrivsrtsebzjdsjoebbe,sujmyvscbvsfc
jotdbxjfdbstjiuobhh,srodcsvbugbibesfcsvyqvsaruurosebaboacsrtsynuqo
ibarmojvjrospyjaysjhsvybsubqobhvshdqzb’hsijmyv;svynhsvibqvbe,svyjh
Hvbbd jdvsyqesdromsfbbosibvqjobesyqiudbhhsqoeserajdb.sQvsqddsbzbovh,syb
yqesgirzbeshrsvynhstqi;sfnvsIqeobcspqhserrubesqoesuqebsuqe,sqoe
Hvbbd jdv—fnv,smbovdbubo,scrnshyqddsybqi.

“Jvspqhsorvsuribsvyqosqseqcsrisvprsqvsvybstnivybhvsqtvbisgrjovjomsybi
girpstrisybisjhdqoesyqzbo,svyqvsvybsVrpo-Yr’hsdbq shbbubesqmqjo
joaibqhjom,sfnvsrodcshrsqhsvrsiblnjibsqosyrnisrisuribsqvsvybsgnugh
bzbicseqc.sCrnsunhvs orpsvyqvsjosqshbvvdbesqoesajzjdjwbesrabqosdj bsrni
Qvdqovja,strisbxqugdb,shrubsh jggbihsvyjo sdjvvdbsrtsgnugjomsvybji
pyrdbspqcsqairhhsjv;svyrnmysrtsqshvjdd,shdbbgcsojmyv,shyrndesvyb
rttjabisrtsvybseba syqggbosvrstrimbvsyjhsenvcsjosvyqvsibhgbav,svyb
girfqfjdjvcsprndesfbsvyqvsybsqoesyjhshyjguqvbhsprndesobzbisqmqjo
ibubufbisjv,srosqaarnovsrtsqddsyqoehsmbovdcshnfhjejomsvrsvybsfrvvru.
Orisjosvybshrdjvqicsqoeshqzqmbshbqhstqistiruscrnsvrsvybspbhvpqie,
mbovdbubo,sjhsjvsqdvrmbvybisnonhnqdstrishyjghsvrs bbgsadqomjomsqvsvybji
gnug-yqoedbhsjostnddsayrinhsbzbostrisqszrcqmbsrtsarohjebiqfdbsdbomvy;
vyqvsjh,sjtsjvsdjbsqdromsqsvrdbiqfdcsqaabhhjfdbsarqhv,srisjtsqocsrvybi
ibqhroqfdbsibvibqvsjhsqttriebesvybu.sJvsjhsrodcspybosqsdbq cszbhhbdsjh
joshrubszbicsrnvsrtsvybspqcsgqivsrtsvyrhbspqvbih,shrubsibqddcsdqoedbhh
dqvjvneb,svyqvsybisaqgvqjosfbmjohsvrstbbdsqsdjvvdbsqoxjrnh.

“UnaysvyjhspqcsyqesjvsfbbospjvysvybsVrpo-Yr;shrspybosybisdbq spqhstrnoe
mqjojomsroabsurib,svybibspqhsjosvinvyshrubshuqddsaroabiosuqojtbhvbesfc
hbzbiqdsrtsybisarugqoc;sbhgbajqddcsfcsIqeobcsvybsuqvb.sYbsaruuqoebesvyb
nggbishqjdhsvrsfbspbddsyrjhvbe,shybbvbesyrubsqobp,sqoesbzbicspqc
bxgqoebesvrsvybsfibbwb.sOrpsvyjhsIqeobc,sJshnggrhb,spqhsqhsdjvvdbsrtsq
arpqie,sqoesqhsdjvvdbsjoadjobesvrsqocshrivsrtsobizrnhsqggibybohjzbobhh
vrnayjomsyjhsrposgbihrosqhsqocstbqidbhh,snovyjo jomsaibqvnibsrosdqoesri
roshbqsvyqvscrnsaqosarozbojbovdcsjuqmjob,smbovdbubo.sVybibtribspybosyb
fbviqcbesvyjhshrdjajvnebsqfrnvsvybshqtbvcsrtsvybshyjg,shrubsrtsvyb
hbqubosebadqibesvyqvsjvspqhsrodcsrosqaarnovsrtsyjhsfbjomsqsgqivsrpobi
josybi.sHrspybosvybcspbibspri jomsvyqvsbzbojomsqvsvybsgnugh,svybibspqh
rosvyjhsybqesorshuqddsmqubhrubobhhshdjdcsmrjomsrosquromsvybu,sqhsvybc
hvrrespjvysvybjistbbvsarovjonqddcsrzbitdrpbesfcsvybsijggdjomsadbqi
pqvbi;sadbqisqhsqocsurnovqjoshgijom,smbovdbubo—vyqvsfnffdjomstirusvyb
gnughsiqosqairhhsvybseba ,sqoesgrnibesjvhbdtsrnvsjoshvbqecshgrnvhsqv
vybsdbbshanggbi-yrdbh.

“Orp,sqhscrnspbdds orp,sjvsjhsorvshbderusvybsaqhbsjosvyjhsarozbovjroqd
pridesrtsrnih—pqvbicsrisrvybipjhb;svyqvspybosqsgbihrosgdqabesjosaruuqoe
rzbisyjhstbddrp-ubostjoehsrobsrtsvybusvrsfbszbicshjmojtjaqovdcsyjh
hngbijrisjosmbobiqdsgijebsrtsuqoyrre,shviqjmyvpqcsqmqjohvsvyqvsuqosyb
aroabjzbhsqosnoarolnbiqfdbsejhdj bsqoesfjvvbiobhh;sqoesjtsybsyqzbsq
ayqoabsybspjddsgnddserposqoesgndzbijwbsvyqvshnfqdvbio’hsvrpbi,sqoesuq b
qsdjvvdbsybqgsrtsenhvsrtsjv.sFbsvyjhsaroabjvsrtsujobsqhsjvsuqc,
mbovdbubo,sqvsqddsbzbovhsHvbbd jdvspqhsqsvqddsqoesorfdbsqojuqdspjvysq
ybqesdj bsqsIruqo,sqoesqstdrpjomsmrdebosfbqiesdj bsvybsvqhhbdbe
yrnhjomhsrtscrnisdqhvszjabirc’hshorivjomsayqimbi;sqoesqsfiqjo,sqoesq
ybqiv,sqoesqshrndsjosyju,smbovdbubo,spyjaysyqesuqebsHvbbd jdv
Ayqidbuqmob,syqesybsfbbosfrioshrosvrsAyqidbuqmob’hstqvybi.sFnvsIqeobc,
vybsuqvb,spqhsnmdcsqhsqsundb;scbvsqhsyqiec,sqhshvnffrio,sqhsuqdjajrnh.
YbsejesorvsdrzbsHvbbd jdv,sqoesHvbbd jdvs obpsjv.

“Bhgcjomsvybsuqvbseiqpjomsobqisqhsybspqhsvrjdjomsqvsvybsgnugspjvysvyb
ibhv,svybsDq buqosqttbavbesorvsvrsorvjabsyju,sfnvsnoqpbe,spbovsrospjvy
yjhsmqcsfqovbijomh.

“‘Qcb,sqcb,sucsubiicsdqeh,sjv’hsqsdjzbdcsdbq svyjh;syrdesqsaqooj jo,
robsrtscb,sqoesdbv’hsyqzbsqsvqhvb.sFcsvybsDrie,sjv’hsprivysfrvvdjom!sJ
vbddscbspyqv,subo,srdesIqe’hsjozbhvubovsunhvsmrstrisjv!sybsyqesfbhvsanv
qpqcsyjhsgqivsrtsvybsynddsqoesvrpsjvsyrub.sVybstqavsjh,sfrch,svyqv
hprie-tjhysrodcsfbmqosvybskrf;syb’hsarubsfqa sqmqjospjvysqsmqomsrt
hyjg-aqigbovbih,shqp-tjhy,sqoestjdb-tjhy,sqoespyqvsorv;sqoesvybspyrdb
grhhbsrts’busqibsorpsyqiesqvspri sanvvjomsqoeshdqhyjomsqvsvybsfrvvru;
uq jomsjugirzbubovh,sJshnggrhb.sJtsrdesIqespbibsybibsorp,sJ’esvbddsyju
vrsknugsrzbifrqiesqoeshaqvvbis’bu.sVybc’ibsgdqcjomsvybsebzjdspjvysyjh
bhvqvb,sJsaqosvbddsyju.sFnvsyb’hsqshjugdbsrdeshrnd,—Iqe,sqoesqsfbqnvc
vrr.sFrch,svybcshqcsvybsibhvsrtsyjhsgirgbivcsjhsjozbhvbesjo
drr jom-mdqhhbh.sJsproebisjtsyb’esmjzbsqsgrrisebzjdsdj bsubsvybsurebd
rtsyjhsorhb.’

“‘Equoscrnisbcbh!spyqv’hsvyqvsgnugshvrggjomstri?’sirqibesIqeobc,
gibvboejomsorvsvrsyqzbsybqiesvybshqjdrih’svqd .s‘Vynoebisqpqcsqvsjv!’

“‘Qcb,sqcb,shji,’shqjesHvbbd jdv,subiicsqhsqsaija bv.s‘Djzbdc,sfrch,
djzbdc,sorp!’sQoespjvysvyqvsvybsgnugsadqombesdj bstjtvcstjib-bomjobh;
vybsubosvrhhbesvybjisyqvhsrttsvrsjv,sqoesbibsdromsvyqvsgbandjqismqhgjom
rtsvybsdnomhspqhsybqiespyjayseborvbhsvybstnddbhvsvbohjrosrtsdjtb’h
nvurhvsbobimjbh.

“Lnjvvjomsvybsgnugsqvsdqhv,spjvysvybsibhvsrtsyjhsfqoe,svybsDq buqospbov
tripqiesqddsgqovjom,sqoeshqvsyjuhbdtserposrosvybspjoedqhh;syjhstqab
tjbicsibe,syjhsbcbhsfdrrehyrv,sqoespjgjomsvybsgirtnhbshpbqvstirusyjh
firp.sOrpspyqvsarwbojomstjboesjvspqh,smbovdbubo,svyqvsgrhhbhhbesIqeobc
vrsubeedbspjvyshnaysqsuqosjosvyqvsarigribqddcsbxqhgbiqvbeshvqvb,sJs orp
orv;sfnvshrsjvsyqggbobe.sJovrdbiqfdcshvijejomsqdromsvybseba ,svybsuqvb
aruuqoebesyjusvrsmbvsqsfirrusqoeshpbbgserposvybsgdqo h,sqoesqdhrsq
hyrzbd,sqoesiburzbshrubsrttbohjzbsuqvvbihsarohblnbovsngrosqddrpjomsq
gjmsvrsinosqvsdqimb.

“Orp,smbovdbubo,shpbbgjomsqshyjg’hseba sqvshbqsjhsqsgjbabsrtsyrnhbyrde
pri spyjaysjosqddsvjubhsfnvsiqmjomsmqdbhsjhsibmndqidcsqvvboebesvrsbzbic
bzbojom;sjvsyqhsfbbos orposvrsfbserobsjosvybsaqhbsrtshyjghsqavnqddc
trnoebijomsqvsvybsvjub.sHnay,smbovdbubo,sjhsvybsjotdbxjfjdjvcsrt
hbq-nhqmbhsqoesvybsjohvjoavjzbsdrzbsrtsobqvobhhsjoshbqubo;shrubsrtspyru
prndesorvspjddjomdcseirpospjvyrnvstjihvspqhyjomsvybjistqabh.sFnvsjosqdd
zbhhbdhsvyjhsfirrusfnhjobhhsjhsvybsgibhaijgvjzbsgirzjoabsrtsvybsfrch,
jtsfrchsvybibsfbsqfrqie.sFbhjebh,sjvspqhsvybshvirombisubosjosvyb
Vrpo-Yrsvyqvsyqesfbbosejzjebesjovrsmqomh,svq jomsvniohsqvsvybsgnugh;
qoesfbjomsvybsurhvsqvydbvjashbquqosrtsvybusqdd,sHvbbd jdvsyqesfbbo
ibmndqidcsqhhjmobesaqgvqjosrtsrobsrtsvybsmqomh;sarohblnbovdcsybshyrnde
yqzbsfbbostibbestirusqocsvijzjqdsfnhjobhhsorvsaroobavbespjvysvindc
oqnvjaqdsenvjbh,shnaysfbjomsvybsaqhbspjvysyjhsaruiqebh.sJsubovjrosqdd
vybhbsgqivjandqihshrsvyqvscrnsuqcsnoebihvqoesbxqavdcsyrpsvyjhsqttqji
hvrresfbvpbbosvybsvprsubo.

“Fnvsvybibspqhsuribsvyqosvyjh:svybsriebisqfrnvsvybshyrzbdspqhsqdurhvsqh
gdqjodcsubqovsvrshvjomsqoesjohndvsHvbbd jdv,sqhsvyrnmysIqeobcsyqeshgqv
josyjhstqab.sQocsuqospyrsyqhsmrobshqjdrisjosqspyqdb-hyjgspjdd
noebihvqoesvyjh;sqoesqddsvyjhsqoesernfvdbhhsunaysurib,svybsDq buqo
tnddcsarugibyboebespybosvybsuqvbsnvvbibesyjhsaruuqoe.sFnvsqhsybshqv
hvjddstrisqsurubov,sqoesqhsybshvbqetqhvdcsdrr besjovrsvybsuqvb’h
uqdjmoqovsbcbsqoesgbiabjzbesvybshvqa hsrtsgrpebi-aqh hsybqgbesngsjosyju
qoesvybshdrp-uqvayshjdbovdcsfniojomsqdromsvrpqiehsvybu;sqhsyb
johvjoavjzbdcshqpsqddsvyjh,svyqvshviqombstrifbqiqoabsqoesnopjddjomobhh
vrshvjisngsvybsebbgbisgqhhjroqvbobhhsjosqocsqdibqecsjibtndsfbjom—q
ibgnmoqoabsurhvstbdv,spybostbdvsqvsqdd,sfcsibqddcszqdjqovsubosbzbospybo
qmmijbzbe—vyjhsoqubdbhhsgyqovrustbbdjom,smbovdbubo,shvrdbsrzbi
Hvbbd jdv.

“Vybibtrib,sjosyjhsriejoqicsvrob,srodcsqsdjvvdbsfir bosfcsvybsfrejdc
bxyqnhvjrosybspqhsvbugriqijdcsjo,sybsqohpbibesyjushqcjomsvyqvshpbbgjom
vybseba spqhsorvsyjhsfnhjobhh,sqoesybsprndesorvsersjv.sQoesvybo,
pjvyrnvsqvsqddsqddnejomsvrsvybshyrzbd,sybsgrjovbesvrsvyibbsdqehsqhsvyb
anhvruqicshpbbgbih;spyr,sorvsfbjomsfjddbvbesqvsvybsgnugh,syqeserob
djvvdbsrisorvyjomsqddseqc.sVrsvyjh,sIqeobcsibgdjbespjvysqosrqvy,sjosq
urhvserujobbijomsqoesrnviqmbrnhsuqoobisnoaroejvjroqddcsibjvbiqvjomsyjh
aruuqoe;subqopyjdbsqezqoajomsngrosvybshvjddshbqvbesDq buqo,spjvysqo
ngdjtvbesarrgbi’hsadnfsyquubispyjaysybsyqeshoqvaybestirusqsaqh sobqi
fc.

“Ybqvbesqoesjiijvqvbesqhsybspqhsfcsyjhshgqhurejasvrjdsqvsvybsgnugh,stri
qddsyjhstjihvsoqubdbhhstbbdjomsrtstrifbqiqoabsvybshpbqvjomsHvbbd jdv
arndesfnvsjddsfirr svyjhsfbqijomsjosvybsuqvb;sfnvshrubyrpshvjdd
hurvybijomsvybsarotdqmiqvjrospjvyjosyju,spjvyrnvshgbq jomsybsibuqjobe
ermmbedcsirrvbesvrsyjhshbqv,svjddsqvsdqhvsvybsjoabohbesIqeobcshyrr svyb
yquubispjvyjosqstbpsjoaybhsrtsyjhstqab,stnijrnhdcsaruuqoejomsyjusvrser
yjhsfjeejom.

“Hvbbd jdvsirhb,sqoeshdrpdcsibvibqvjomsirnoesvybspjoedqhh,shvbqejdc
trddrpbesfcsvybsuqvbspjvysyjhsuboqajomsyquubi,sebdjfbiqvbdcsibgbqvbe
yjhsjovbovjrosorvsvrsrfbc.sHbbjom,syrpbzbi,svyqvsyjhstrifbqiqoabsyqe
orvsvybshdjmyvbhvsbttbav,sfcsqosqptndsqoesnohgbq qfdbsjovjuqvjrospjvy
yjhsvpjhvbesyqoesybspqiobesrttsvybstrrdjhysqoesjotqvnqvbesuqo;sfnvsjv
pqhsvrsorsgnigrhb.sQoesjosvyjhspqcsvybsvprspbovsroabshdrpdcsirnoesvyb
pjoedqhh;spybo,sibhrdzbesqvsdqhvsorsdrombisvrsibvibqv,sfbvyjo jomsyju
vyqvsybsyqesorpstrifriobsqhsunaysqhsarugrivbespjvysyjhsynuri,svyb
Dq buqosgqnhbesrosvybsyqvaybhsqoesvynhshgr bsvrsvybsrttjabi:

“‘Ui.sIqeobc,sJspjddsorvsrfbcscrn.sVq bsvyqvsyquubisqpqc,srisdrr svr
crnihbdt.’sFnvsvybsgibebhvjoqvbesuqvbsarujomshvjddsadrhbisvrsyju,spybib
vybsDq buqoshvrrestjxbe,sorpshyrr svybsybqzcsyquubispjvyjosqosjoaysrt
yjhsvbbvy;subqopyjdbsibgbqvjomsqshvijomsrtsjohnttbiqfdbsuqdbejavjroh.
Ibvibqvjomsorvsvybsvyrnhqoevysgqivsrtsqosjoay;shvqffjomsyjusjosvybsbcb
pjvysvybsnotdjoayjomsgrojqiesrtsyjhsmdqoab,sHvbbd jdv,sadboayjomsyjh
ijmyvsyqoesfbyjoesyjusqoesaibbgjomdcseiqpjomsjvsfqa ,svrdesyjh
gbihbanvrisvyqvsjtsvybsyquubisfnvsmiqwbesyjhsaybb sybs(Hvbbd jdv)sprnde
uniebisyju.sFnv,smbovdbubo,svybstrrdsyqesfbbosfiqoebestrisvybshdqnmyvbi
fcsvybsmreh.sJuubejqvbdcsvybsyquubisvrnaybesvybsaybb ;svybsobxvsjohvqov
vybsdrpbiskqpsrtsvybsuqvbspqhshvrzbsjosyjhsybqe;sybstbddsrosvybsyqvay
hgrnvjomsfdrresdj bsqspyqdb.

“BibsvybsaicsarndesmrsqtvsHvbbd jdvspqhshyq jomsrobsrtsvybsfqa hvqch
dbqejomstqisqdrtvsvrspybibsvprsrtsyjhsaruiqebhspbibshvqoejomsvybji
uqhvybqeh.sVybcspbibsfrvysAqoqddbih.

“‘Aqoqddbih!’saijbesErosGbeir.s‘Pbsyqzbshbbosuqocspyqdb-hyjghsjosrni
yqifrnih,sfnvsobzbisybqiesrtscrnisAqoqddbih.sGqiero:spyrsqoespyqvsqib
vybc?’

“‘Aqoqddbih,sEro,sqibsvybsfrqvubosfbdromjomsvrsrnismiqoesBijbsAqoqd.
Crnsunhvsyqzbsybqiesrtsjv.’

“‘Oqc,sHbori;sybibqfrnvhsjosvyjhsendd,spqiu,surhvsdqwc,sqoesybibejvqic
dqoe,spbs orpsfnvsdjvvdbsrtscrniszjmrirnhsOrivy.’

“‘Qcb?sPbddsvybo,sEro,sibtjddsucsang.sCrnisayjayq’hszbicstjob;sqoesbib
girabbejomstnivybisJspjddsvbddscbspyqvsrnisAqoqddbihsqib;strishnay
jotriuqvjrosuqcsvyirpshjeb-djmyvsngrosucshvric.’

“Trisvyibbsynoeibesqoeshjxvcsujdbh,smbovdbubo,svyirnmysvybsbovjib
fibqevysrtsvybshvqvbsrtsObpsCri ;svyirnmysonubirnhsgrgndrnhsajvjbhsqoe
urhvsvyijzjomszjddqmbh;svyirnmysdrom,sejhuqd,snojoyqfjvbeshpqugh,sqoe
qttdnbov,sandvjzqvbestjbdeh,snoijzqddbestristbivjdjvc;sfcsfjddjqie-irru
qoesfqi-irru;svyirnmysvybsyrdc-rt-yrdjbhsrtsmibqvstribhvh;srosIruqo
qiaybhsrzbisJoejqosijzbih;svyirnmyshnosqoeshyqeb;sfcsyqggcsybqivhsri
fir bo;svyirnmysqddsvybspjebsaroviqhvjomshabobicsrtsvyrhbsorfdbsUryqp 
arnovjbh;sqoesbhgbajqddc,sfcsirphsrtshorp-pyjvbsayqgbdh,spyrhbshgjibh
hvqoesqdurhvsdj bsujdbhvrobh,stdrphsrobsarovjonqdshvibqusrtsZbobvjqodc
ariingvsqoesrtvbosdqpdbhhsdjtb.sVybib’hscrnisvinbsQhyqovbb,smbovdbubo;
vybibsyrpdscrnisgqmqoh;spybibscrnsbzbistjoesvybu,sobxvserrisvrscrn;
noebisvybsdrom-tdnomshyqerp,sqoesvybshonmsgqvirojhjomsdbbsrtsayniaybh.
Trisfcshrubsanijrnhstqvqdjvc,sqhsjvsjhsrtvbosorvbesrtscrnisubvirgrdjvqo
tibbfrrvbihsvyqvsvybcsbzbisboaqugsqirnoesvybsyqddhsrtsknhvjab,shr
hjoobih,smbovdbubo,surhvsqfrnoesjosyrdjbhvszjajojvjbh.

“‘Jhsvyqvsqstijqisgqhhjom?’shqjesErosGbeir,sdrr jomserpopqiehsjovrsvyb
airpebesgdqwwq,spjvysynurirnhsaroabio.

“‘Pbddstrisrnisorivybiostijboe,sEqubsJhqfbddq’hsJolnjhjvjrospqobhsjo
Djuq,’sdqnmybesErosHbfqhvjqo.s‘Girabbe,sHbori.’

“‘Qsurubov!sGqiero!’saijbesqorvybisrtsvybsarugqoc.s‘Josvybsoqubsrtsqdd
nhsDjubbhb,sJsfnvsebhjibsvrsbxgibhhsvrscrn,shjishqjdri,svyqvspbsyqzbsfc
orsubqohsrzbidrr bescrnisebdjaqacsjosorvshnfhvjvnvjomsgibhbovsDjuqstri
ejhvqovsZbojabsjoscrnisariingvsarugqijhro.sRy!sersorvsfrpsqoesdrr 
hnigijhbe;scrns orpsvybsgirzbifsqddsqdromsvyjhsarqhv—“AriingvsqhsDjuq.”
Jvsfnvsfbqihsrnvscrnishqcjom,svrr;sayniaybhsuribsgdbovjtndsvyqo
fjddjqie-vqfdbh,sqoestrisbzbisrgbo—qoes“AriingvsqhsDjuq.”sHr,svrr,
Zbojab;sJsyqzbsfbbosvybib;svybsyrdcsajvcsrtsvybsfdbhhbesbzqombdjhv,sHv.
Uqi !—Hv.sErujoja,sgnimbsjv!sCrnisang!sVyqo h:sybibsJsibtjdd;sorp,scrn
grnisrnvsqmqjo.’

“Tibbdcsebgjavbesjosyjhsrposzraqvjro,smbovdbubo,svybsAqoqddbisprnde
uq bsqstjobseiquqvjasybir,shrsqfnoeqovdcsqoesgjavnibhlnbdcspja besjh
yb.sDj bsUqi sQovroc,striseqchsqoeseqchsqdromsyjhsmibbo-vnitbe,stdrpbic
Ojdb,sybsjoerdbovdcstdrqvh,srgbodcsvrcjomspjvysyjhsibe-aybb be
Adbrgqviq,sijgbojomsyjhsqgijarvsvyjmysngrosvybshnoocseba .sFnvsqhyrib,
qddsvyjhsbttbujoqacsjhseqhybe.sVybsfijmqoejhysmnjhbspyjaysvybsAqoqddbi
hrsgirnedcshgrivh;syjhshdrnaybesqoesmqjdc-ijffrobesyqvsfbvr bosyjh
miqoestbqvnibh.sQsvbiirisvrsvybshujdjomsjooraboabsrtsvybszjddqmbh
vyirnmyspyjaysybstdrqvh;syjhshpqivszjhqmbsqoesfrdeshpqmmbisqibsorv
nohynoobesjosajvjbh.sRoabsqszqmqfroesrosyjhsrposaqoqd,sJsyqzbsibabjzbe
mrresvniohstirusrobsrtsvybhbsAqoqddbih;sJsvyqo syjusybqivjdc;sprnde
tqjosfbsorvsnomiqvbtnd;sfnvsjvsjhsrtvbosrobsrtsvybsgijubsibebbujom
lnqdjvjbhsrtscrnisuqosrtszjrdboab,svyqvsqvsvjubhsybsyqhsqhshvjttsqosqiu
vrsfqa sqsgrrishviqombisjosqshviqjv,sqhsvrsgdnoebisqspbqdvycsrob.sJo
hnu,smbovdbubo,spyqvsvybspjdeobhhsrtsvyjhsaqoqdsdjtbsjh,sjh
bugyqvjaqddcsbzjoabesfcsvyjh;svyqvsrnispjdespyqdb-tjhybicsarovqjohshr
uqocsrtsjvhsurhvstjojhybesmiqenqvbh,sqoesvyqvshaqiabsqocsiqabsrt
uqo joe,sbxabgvsHceobcsubo,sqibshrsunaysejhvinhvbesfcsrnispyqdjom
aqgvqjoh.sOriserbhsjvsqvsqddsejujojhysvybsanijrnhobhhsrtsvyjhsuqvvbi,
vyqvsvrsuqocsvyrnhqoehsrtsrnisiniqdsfrchsqoescrnomsubosfriosqdromsjvh
djob,svybsgirfqvjroqicsdjtbsrtsvybsMiqoesAqoqdstniojhybhsvybshrdb
viqohjvjrosfbvpbboslnjbvdcsibqgjomsjosqsAyijhvjqosario-tjbde,sqoe
iba dbhhdcsgdrnmyjomsvybspqvbihsrtsvybsurhvsfqifqijashbqh.

“‘Jshbb!sJshbb!’sjugbvnrnhdcsbxadqjubesErosGbeir,shgjddjomsyjhsayjayq
ngrosyjhshjdzbicsinttdbh.s‘Orsobbesvrsviqzbd!sVybspride’hsrobsDjuq.sJ
yqesvyrnmyv,sorp,svyqvsqvscrnisvbugbiqvbsOrivysvybsmbobiqvjrohspbib
ardesqoesyrdcsqhsvybsyjddh.—Fnvsvybshvric.’

“Jsdbtvsrtt,smbovdbubo,spybibsvybsDq buqoshyrr svybsfqa hvqc.sYqiedc
yqesybserobshr,spybosybspqhshniirnoebesfcsvybsvyibbsknojrisuqvbhsqoe
vybstrnisyqigrrobbih,spyrsqddsairpebesyjusvrsvybseba .sFnvshdjejomserpo
vybsirgbhsdj bsfqdbtndsarubvh,svybsvprsAqoqddbihsinhybesjovrsvyb
ngirqi,sqoeshrnmyvsvrseiqmsvybjisuqosrnvsrtsjvsvrpqiehsvybstribaqhvdb.
Rvybihsrtsvybshqjdrihskrjobespjvysvybusjosvyjhsqvvbugv,sqoesqsvpjhvbe
vniurjdsbohnbe;spyjdbshvqoejomsrnvsrtsyqiu’hspqc,svybszqdjqovsaqgvqjo
eqoabesngsqoeserpospjvysqspyqdb-gj b,saqddjomsngrosyjhsrttjabihsvr
uqoyqoedbsvyqvsqvirajrnhsharnoeibd,sqoeshur bsyjusqdromsvrsvyb
lnqivbi-eba .sQvsjovbizqdh,sybsiqosadrhbsngsvrsvybsibzrdzjomsfriebisrt
vybsarotnhjro,sqoesgicjomsjovrsvybsybqivsrtsjvspjvysyjhsgj b,shrnmyvsvr
gija srnvsvybsrfkbavsrtsyjhsibhbovubov.sFnvsHvbbd jdvsqoesyjh
ebhgbiqerbhspbibsvrrsunaystrisvybusqdd;svybcshnaabbebesjosmqjojomsvyb
tribaqhvdbseba ,spybib,syqhvjdcshdbpjomsqfrnvsvyibbsristrnisdqimbsaqh h
josqsdjobspjvysvybspjoedqhh,svybhbshbq-Gqijhjqohsboviboaybesvybuhbdzbh
fbyjoesvybsfqiijaqeb.

“‘Arubsrnvsrtsvyqv,scbsgjiqvbh!’sirqibesvybsaqgvqjo,sorpsuboqajomsvybu
pjvysqsgjhvrdsjosbqaysyqoe,sknhvsfirnmyvsvrsyjusfcsvybshvbpqie.s‘Arub
rnvsrtsvyqv,scbsanv-vyirqvh!’

“Hvbbd jdvsdbqgbesrosvybsfqiijaqeb,sqoeshvijejomsngsqoeserposvybib,
ebtjbesvybsprihvsvybsgjhvrdhsarndeser;sfnvsmqzbsvybsaqgvqjosvr
noebihvqoesejhvjoavdc,svyqvsyjhs(Hvbbd jdv’h)sebqvysprndesfbsvybshjmoqd
trisqsuniebirnhsunvjocsrosvybsgqivsrtsqddsyqoeh.sTbqijomsjosyjhsybqiv
dbhvsvyjhsujmyvsgirzbsfnvsvrrsvinb,svybsaqgvqjosqsdjvvdbsebhjhvbe,sfnv
hvjddsaruuqoebesvybsjohnimbovhsjohvqovdcsvrsibvniosvrsvybjisenvc.

“‘Pjddscrnsgirujhbsorvsvrsvrnaysnh,sjtspbser?’sebuqoebesvybji
ijomdbqebi.

“‘Vniosvr!svniosvr!—Jsuq bsorsgirujhb;—vrscrnisenvc!sErscrnspqovsvr
hjo svybshyjg,sfcs ora jomsrttsqvsqsvjubsdj bsvyjh?sVniosvr!’sqoesyb
roabsuribsiqjhbesqsgjhvrd.

“‘Hjo svybshyjg?’saijbesHvbbd jdv.s‘Qcb,sdbvsybishjo .sOrvsqsuqosrtsnh
vniohsvr,snodbhhscrnshpbqisorvsvrsiqjhbsqsirgb-cqiosqmqjohvsnh.sPyqv
hqcscb,subo?’svniojomsvrsyjhsaruiqebh.sQstjbiabsaybbispqhsvybji
ibhgrohb.

“VybsDq buqosorpsgqvirddbesvybsfqiijaqeb,sqddsvybspyjdbs bbgjomsyjhsbcb
rosvybsAqgvqjo,sqoeskbi jomsrnvshnayshbovboabhsqhsvybhb:—‘Jv’hsorvsrni
tqndv;spbsejeo’vspqovsjv;sJsvrdesyjusvrsvq bsyjhsyquubisqpqc;sjvspqh
frc’hsfnhjobhh;sybsujmyvsyqzbs orposubsfbtribsvyjh;sJsvrdesyjusorvsvr
gija svybsfnttqdr;sJsfbdjbzbsJsyqzbsfir bosqstjombisybibsqmqjohvsyjh
anihbeskqp;sqjo’vsvyrhbsujoajoms ojzbhserposjosvybstribaqhvdbsvybib,
ubo?sdrr svrsvyrhbsyqoehgj bh,sucsybqivjbh.sAqgvqjo,sfcsMre,sdrr svr
crnihbdt;shqcsvybsprie;sero’vsfbsqstrrd;strimbvsjvsqdd;spbsqibsibqecsvr
vniosvr;svibqvsnhsebabovdc,sqoespb’ibscrnisubo;sfnvspbspro’vsfb
tdrmmbe.’

“‘Vniosvr!sJsuq bsorsgirujhbh,svniosvr,sJshqc!’

“‘Drr scb,sorp,’saijbesvybsDq buqo,stdjomjomsrnvsyjhsqiusvrpqiehsyju,
‘vybibsqibsqstbpsrtsnhsybibs(qoesJsqusrobsrtsvybu)spyrsyqzbshyjggbestri
vybsainjhb,se’cbshbb;sorpsqhscrnspbdds orp,shji,spbsaqosadqjusrni
ejhayqimbsqhshrrosqhsvybsqoayrisjhserpo;shrspbsero’vspqovsqsirp;sjv’h
orvsrnisjovbibhv;spbspqovsvrsfbsgbqabqfdb;spbsqibsibqecsvrspri ,sfnvspb
pro’vsfbstdrmmbe.’

“‘Vniosvr!’sirqibesvybsAqgvqjo.

“Hvbbd jdvsmdqoabesirnoesyjusqsurubov,sqoesvyboshqje:—‘Jsvbddscrnspyqv
jvsjhsorp,sAqgvqjo,siqvybisvyqos jddscb,sqoesfbsynomstrishnaysqshyqffc
iqhaqd,spbspro’vsdjtvsqsyqoesqmqjohvscbsnodbhhscbsqvvqa snh;sfnvsvjdd
crnshqcsvybspriesqfrnvsorvstdrmmjomsnh,spbsero’vsersqsyqoe’hsvnio.’

“‘Erposjovrsvybstribaqhvdbsvybo,serpospjvyscb,sJ’dds bbgscbsvybibsvjdd
cb’ibshja srtsjv.sErposcbsmr.’

“‘Hyqddspb?’saijbesvybsijomdbqebisvrsyjhsubo.sUrhvsrtsvybuspbibsqmqjohv
jv;sfnvsqvsdbomvy,sjosrfbejboabsvrsHvbbd jdv,svybcsgibabebesyjuserpo
jovrsvybjiseqi sebo,smirpdjomdcsejhqggbqijom,sdj bsfbqihsjovrsqsaqzb.

“QhsvybsDq buqo’hsfqibsybqespqhsknhvsdbzbdspjvysvybsgdqo h,svybsAqgvqjo
qoesyjhsgrhhbsdbqgbesvybsfqiijaqeb,sqoesiqgjedcseiqpjomsrzbisvybshdjeb
rtsvybshanvvdb,sgdqovbesvybjismirngsrtsyqoehsngrosjv,sqoesdrnedcsaqddbe
trisvybshvbpqiesvrsfijomsvybsybqzcsfiqhhsgqedra sfbdromjomsvrsvyb
arugqojropqc.sVybosrgbojomsvybshdjebsqsdjvvdb,svybsAqgvqjospyjhgbibe
hrubvyjomserposvybsaiqa ,sadrhbesjv,sqoesvniobesvybs bcsngrosvybu—vbo
josonufbi—dbqzjomsroseba shrubsvpbovcsrisurib,spyrsvynhstqisyqe
ibuqjobesobnviqd.

“Qddsojmyvsqspjeb-qpq bspqvayspqhs bgvsfcsqddsvybsrttjabih,stripqiesqoe
qtv,sbhgbajqddcsqfrnvsvybstribaqhvdbshanvvdbsqoestribsyqvaypqc;sqv
pyjaysdqhvsgdqabsjvspqhstbqibesvybsjohnimbovhsujmyvsbubimb,sqtvbi
fibq jomsvyirnmysvybsfnd ybqesfbdrp.sFnvsvybsyrnihsrtseqi obhhsgqhhbe
josgbqab;svybsubospyrshvjddsibuqjobesqvsvybjisenvcsvrjdjomsyqiesqvsvyb
gnugh,spyrhbsadjo jomsqoesadqo jomsqvsjovbizqdhsvyirnmysvybseibqic
ojmyvsejhuqddcsibhrnoebesvyirnmysvybshyjg.

“QvshnoijhbsvybsAqgvqjospbovstripqie,sqoes ora jomsrosvybseba ,
hnuurobesvybsgijhrobihsvrspri ;sfnvspjvysqscbddsvybcsibtnhbe.sPqvbispqh
vybosdrpbibeserposvrsvybu,sqoesqsarngdbsrtsyqoetndhsrtsfjhanjvspbib
vrhhbesqtvbisjv;spybosqmqjosvniojomsvybs bcsngrosvybusqoesgra bvjomsjv,
vybsAqgvqjosibvniobesvrsvybslnqivbi-eba .sVpjabsbzbicseqcstrisvyibb
eqchsvyjhspqhsibgbqvbe;sfnvsrosvybstrnivysuriojomsqsarotnhbespiqomdjom,
qoesvybosqshanttdjomspqhsybqie,sqhsvybsanhvruqicshnuurohspqhsebdjzbibe;
qoeshneebodcstrnisubosfnihvsngstirusvybstribaqhvdb,shqcjomsvybcspbib
ibqecsvrsvniosvr.sVybstbvjesadrhbobhhsrtsvybsqji,sqoesqstqujhyjomsejbv,
nojvbesgbiyqghsvrshrubstbqihsrtsndvjuqvbsibvijfnvjro,syqesarohviqjobe
vybusvrshniiboebisqvsejhaibvjro.sBufrdebobesfcsvyjh,svybsAqgvqjo
ibjvbiqvbesyjhsebuqoesvrsvybsibhv,sfnvsHvbbd jdvshyrnvbesngsvrsyjusq
vbiijtjasyjovsvrshvrgsyjhsfqffdjomsqoesfbvq bsyjuhbdtspybibsyb
fbdrombe.sRosvybstjtvysuriojomsvyibbsrvybihsrtsvybsunvjobbihsfrdvbesng
jovrsvybsqjistirusvybsebhgbiqvbsqiuhsfbdrpsvyqvshrnmyvsvrsibhviqjo
vybu.sRodcsvyibbspbibsdbtv.

“‘Fbvvbisvniosvr,sorp?’shqjesvybsAqgvqjospjvysqsybqivdbhhskbbi.

“‘Hynvsnhsngsqmqjo,spjddscb!’saijbesHvbbd jdv.

“‘Rysabivqjodc,’shqjesvybsAqgvqjo,sqoesvybs bcsadja be.

“Jvspqhsqvsvyjhsgrjov,smbovdbubo,svyqvsboiqmbesfcsvybsebtbavjrosrt
hbzbosrtsyjhstriubisqhhrajqvbh,sqoeshvnomsfcsvybsura jomszrjabsvyqvsyqe
dqhvsyqjdbesyju,sqoesuqeebobesfcsyjhsdromsbovrufubovsjosqsgdqabsqh
fdqa sqhsvybsfrpbdhsrtsebhgqji;sjvspqhsvybosvyqvsHvbbd jdvsgirgrhbesvr
vybsvprsAqoqddbih,svynhstqisqggqibovdcsrtsrobsujoespjvysyju,svrsfnihv
rnvsrtsvybjisyrdbsqvsvybsobxvshnuurojomsrtsvybsmqiijhro;sqoesqiubespjvy
vybjis bbosujoajoms ojzbhs(drom,saibhabovja,sybqzcsjugdbubovhspjvysq
yqoedbsqvsbqaysboe)sinosquna stirusvybsfrphgijvsvrsvybsvqttiqjd;sqoesjt
fcsqocsebzjdjhyobhhsrtsebhgbiqvjrosgrhhjfdb,shbjwbsvybshyjg.sTri
yjuhbdt,sybsprndesersvyjh,sybshqje,spybvybisvybcskrjobesyjusrisorv.
Vyqvspqhsvybsdqhvsojmyvsybshyrndeshgboesjosvyqvsebo.sFnvsvybshaybubsubv
pjvysorsrggrhjvjrosrosvybsgqivsrtsvybsrvybisvpr;svybcshpribsvybcspbib
ibqecstrisvyqv,sristrisqocsrvybisuqesvyjom,strisqocvyjomsjoshyrivsfnvsq
hniiboebi.sQoespyqvspqhsurib,svybcsbqaysjohjhvbesngrosfbjomsvybstjihv
uqosroseba ,spybosvybsvjubsvrsuq bsvybsinhyshyrndesarub.sFnvsvrsvyjh
vybjisdbqebisqhstjbiabdcsrfkbavbe,sibhbizjomsvyqvsgijrijvcstrisyjuhbdt;
gqivjandqidcsqhsyjhsvprsaruiqebhsprndesorvscjbde,svybsrobsvrsvybsrvybi,
josvybsuqvvbi;sqoesfrvysrtsvybusarndesorvsfbstjihv,strisvybsdqeebi
prndesfnvsqeujvsrobsuqosqvsqsvjub.sQoesybib,smbovdbubo,svybstrndsgdqc
rtsvybhbsujhaibqovhsunhvsarubsrnv.

“Ngrosybqijomsvybstiqovjasgirkbavsrtsvybjisdbqebi,sbqaysjosyjhsrpo
hbgqiqvbshrndsyqeshneebodcsdjmyvbe,sjvsprndeshbbu,sngrosvybshqubsgjbab
rtsvibqaybic,soqubdc:svrsfbstriburhvsjosfibq jomsrnv,sjosriebisvrsfb
vybstjihvsrtsvybsvyibb,svyrnmysvybsdqhvsrtsvybsvbo,svrshniiboebi;sqoe
vybibfcshbanibspyqvbzbishuqddsayqoabsrtsgqieroshnaysaroenavsujmyv
ubijv.sFnvspybosHvbbd jdvsuqebs orposyjhsebvbiujoqvjroshvjddsvrsdbqe
vybusvrsvybsdqhv,svybcsjoshrubspqc,sfcshrubshnfvdbsaybujhvicsrt
zjddqoc,sujxbesvybjisfbtribshbaibvsvibqaybijbhsvrmbvybi;sqoespybosvybji
dbqebistbddsjovrsqserwb,szbifqddcsrgbobesvybjishrndhsvrsbqaysrvybisjo
vyibbshbovboabh;sqoesfrnoesvybshdbbgbispjvysarieh,sqoesmqmmbesyjuspjvy
arieh;sqoeshyijb besrnvstrisvybsAqgvqjosqvsujeojmyv.

“Vyjo jomsuniebisqvsyqoe,sqoeshubddjomsjosvybseqi strisvybsfdrre,syb
qoesqddsyjhsqiubesuqvbhsqoesyqigrrobbihsinhybestrisvybstribaqhvdb.sJosq
tbpsujonvbhsvybshanvvdbspqhsrgbobe,sqoe,sfrnoesyqoesqoestrrv,svybshvjdd
hvinmmdjomsijomdbqebispqhshyrzbesngsjovrsvybsqjisfcsyjhsgbitjejrnh
qddjbh,spyrsqvsroabsadqjubesvybsyrorisrtshbanijomsqsuqospyrsyqesfbbo
tnddcsijgbstrisuniebi.sFnvsqddsvybhbspbibsarddqibe,sqoeseiqmmbesqdrom
vybseba sdj bsebqesaqvvdb;sqoe,shjebsfcshjeb,spbibshbjwbesngsjovrsvyb
ujwwbosijmmjom,sdj bsvyibbslnqivbihsrtsubqv,sqoesvybibsvybcsynomsvjdd
uriojom.s‘Equoscb,’saijbesvybsAqgvqjo,sgqajomsvrsqoestirsfbtribsvybu,
‘vybszndvnibhsprndesorvsvrnayscb,scbszjddqjoh!’

“Qvshnoijhbsybshnuurobesqddsyqoeh;sqoeshbgqiqvjomsvyrhbspyrsyqe
ibfbddbestirusvyrhbspyrsyqesvq bosorsgqivsjosvybsunvjoc,sybsvrdesvyb
triubisvyqvsybsyqesqsmrresujoesvrstdrmsvybusqddsirnoe—vyrnmyv,sngrosvyb
pyrdb,sybsprndesershr—ybsrnmyvsvr—knhvjabsebuqoebesjv;sfnvstrisvyb
gibhbov,sarohjebijomsvybjisvjubdcshniiboebi,sybsprndesdbvsvybusmrspjvy
qsibgijuqoe,spyjaysybsqaariejomdcsqeujojhvbibesjosvybszbioqandqi.

“‘Fnvsqhstriscrn,scbsaqiijrosirmnbh,’svniojomsvrsvybsvyibbsubosjosvyb
ijmmjom—‘triscrn,sJsubqosvrsujoabscbsngstrisvybsvic-grvh;’sqoe,shbjwjom
qsirgb,sybsqggdjbesjvspjvysqddsyjhsujmyvsvrsvybsfqa hsrtsvybsvpr
viqjvrih,svjddsvybcscbddbesorsurib,sfnvsdjtbdbhhdcsynomsvybjisybqeh
hjebpqch,sqhsvybsvprsainajtjbesvyjbzbhsqibseiqpo.

“‘Ucspijhvsjhshgiqjobespjvyscb!’sybsaijbe,sqvsdqhv;s‘fnvsvybibsjhshvjdd
irgbsbornmysdbtvstriscrn,sucstjobsfqovqu,svyqvsprndeo’vsmjzbsng.sVq b
vyqvsmqmstirusyjhsurnvy,sqoesdbvsnhsybqispyqvsybsaqoshqcstrisyjuhbdt.’

“Trisqsurubovsvybsbxyqnhvbesunvjobbisuqebsqsvibundrnhsurvjrosrtsyjh
aiqugbeskqph,sqoesvybosgqjotnddcsvpjhvjomsirnoesyjhsybqe,shqjesjosq
hrivsrtsyjhh,s‘PyqvsJshqcsjhsvyjh—qoesujoesjvspbdd—jtscrnstdrmsub,sJ
uniebiscrn!’

“‘Hqcscbshr?svyboshbbsyrpscbstijmyvbosub’—qoesvybsAqgvqjoseibpsrttspjvy
vybsirgbsvrshvij b.

“‘Fbhvsorv,’syjhhbesvybsDq buqo.

“‘FnvsJsunhv,’—qoesvybsirgbspqhsroabsuribseiqposfqa strisvybshvir b.

“Hvbbd jdvsybibsyjhhbesrnvshrubvyjom,sjoqnejfdbsvrsqddsfnvsvybsAqgvqjo;
pyr,svrsvybsquqwbubovsrtsqddsyqoeh,shvqivbesfqa ,sgqabesvybseba 
iqgjedcsvprsrisvyibbsvjubh,sqoesvyboshneebodcsvyirpjomserposyjhsirgb,
hqje,s‘Jspro’vsersjv—dbvsyjusmr—anvsyjuserpo:se’cbsybqi?’

“Fnvsqhsvybsknojrisuqvbhspbibsyniicjomsvrsbxbanvbsvybsriebi,sqsgqdb
uqo,spjvysqsfqoeqmbesybqe,sqiibhvbesvybu—Iqeobcsvybsayjbtsuqvb.sBzbi
hjoabsvybsfdrp,sybsyqesdqjosjosyjhsfbivy;sfnvsvyqvsuriojom,sybqijomsvyb
vnundvsrosvybseba ,sybsyqesaibgvsrnv,sqoesvynhstqisyqespqvaybesvyb
pyrdbshabob.sHnayspqhsvybshvqvbsrtsyjhsurnvy,svyqvsybsarndesyqiedc
hgbq ;sfnvsunufdjomshrubvyjomsqfrnvs_yjh_sfbjomspjddjomsqoesqfdbsvrser
pyqvsvybsaqgvqjoseqibesorvsqvvbugv,sybshoqvaybesvybsirgbsqoesqezqoabe
vrsyjhsgjojrobestrb.

“‘Crnsqibsqsarpqie!’syjhhbesvybsDq buqo.

“‘HrsJsqu,sfnvsvq bsvyqv.’sVybsuqvbspqhsjosvybszbicsqavsrtshvij jom,
pybosqorvybisyjhhshvqcbesyjhsngdjtvbesqiu.sYbsgqnhbe:sqoesvybosgqnhjom
orsurib,suqebsmrresyjhsprie,shgjvbsrtsHvbbd jdv’hsvyibqv,spyqvbzbisvyqv
ujmyvsyqzbsfbbo.sVybsvyibbsubospbibsvybosanvserpo,sqddsyqoehspbib
vniobesvr,sqoe,shnddbodcspri besfcsvybsurrecshbqubo,svybsjirosgnugh
adqombesqhsfbtrib.

“Knhvsqtvbiseqi svyqvseqc,spybosrobspqvaysyqesibvjibesfbdrp,sqsadquri
pqhsybqiesjosvybstribaqhvdb;sqoesvybsvprsvibufdjomsviqjvrihsinoojomsng,
fbhjbmbesvybsaqfjoserri,shqcjomsvybcsenihvsorvsarohrivspjvysvybsaibp.
Bovibqvjbh,santth,sqoes ja hsarndesorvseijzbsvybusfqa ,shrsqvsvybjisrpo
johvqoabsvybcspbibsgnvserposjosvybshyjg’hsinostrishqdzqvjro.sHvjdd,sor
hjmosrtsunvjocsibqggbqibesquromsvybsibhv.sRosvybsaroviqic,sjvshbbube,
vyqvsuqjodcsqvsHvbbd jdv’hsjohvjmqvjro,svybcsyqesibhrdzbesvrsuqjovqjo
vybshvijavbhvsgbqabtndobhh,srfbcsqddsriebihsvrsvybsdqhv,sqoe,spybosvyb
hyjgsibqaybesgriv,sebhbivsybisjosqsfrec.sFnvsjosriebisvrsjohnibsvyb
hgbbejbhvsboesvrsvybszrcqmb,svybcsqddsqmibbesvrsqorvybisvyjom—oqubdc,
orvsvrshjomsrnvstrispyqdbh,sjosaqhbsqocshyrndesfbsejharzbibe.sTri,
hgjvbsrtsybisdbq ,sqoeshgjvbsrtsqddsybisrvybisgbijdh,svybsVrpo-Yrshvjdd
uqjovqjobesybisuqhv-ybqeh,sqoesybisaqgvqjospqhsknhvsqhspjddjomsvrsdrpbi
trisqstjhysvyqvsurubov,sqhsrosvybseqcsyjhsaiqtvstjihvshvina svyb
ainjhjomsmirnoe;sqoesIqeobcsvybsuqvbspqhslnjvbsqhsibqecsvrsayqombsyjh
fbivystrisqsfrqv,sqoespjvysyjhsfqoeqmbesurnvyshbb svrsmqmsjosebqvysvyb
zjvqdskqpsrtsvybspyqdb.

“FnvsvyrnmysvybsDq buqosyqesjoenabesvybshbqubosvrsqergvsvyjhshrivsrt
gqhhjzbobhhsjosvybjisaroenav,sybs bgvsyjhsrposarnohbds(qvsdbqhvsvjdd
qddspqhsrzbi)saroabiojomsyjhsrposgirgbisqoesgijzqvbsibzbombsngrosvyb
uqospyrsyqeshvnomsyjusjosvybszbovijadbhsrtsyjhsybqiv.sYbspqhsjosIqeobc
vybsayjbtsuqvb’hspqvay;sqoesqhsjtsvybsjotqvnqvbesuqoshrnmyvsvrsinosurib
vyqosyqdtspqcsvrsubbvsyjhserru,sqtvbisvybshabobsqvsvybsijmmjom,syb
johjhvbe,sqmqjohvsvybsbxgibhhsarnohbdsrtsvybsaqgvqjo,sngrosibhnujomsvyb
ybqesrtsyjhspqvaysqvsojmyv.sNgrosvyjh,sqoesrobsrisvprsrvybi
ajianuhvqoabh,sHvbbd jdvshchvbuqvjaqddcsfnjdvsvybsgdqosrtsyjhsibzbomb.

“Enijomsvybsojmyv,sIqeobcsyqesqosnohbquqodj bspqcsrtshjvvjomsrosvyb
fndpqi hsrtsvybslnqivbi-eba ,sqoesdbqojomsyjhsqiusngrosvybsmnopqdbsrt
vybsfrqvspyjayspqhsyrjhvbesngsvybib,sqsdjvvdbsqfrzbsvybshyjg’hshjeb.sJo
vyjhsqvvjvneb,sjvspqhspbdds orpo,sybshrubvjubhserwbe.sVybibspqhsq
arohjebiqfdbszqaqoacsfbvpbbosvybsfrqvsqoesvybshyjg,sqoeserposfbvpbbo
vyjhspqhsvybshbq.sHvbbd jdvsaqdandqvbesyjhsvjub,sqoestrnoesvyqvsyjh
obxvsvija sqvsvybsybdusprndesarubsirnoesqvsvprsr’adra ,sjosvybsuriojom
rtsvybsvyjieseqcstirusvyqvsjospyjaysybsyqesfbbosfbviqcbe.sQvsyjh
dbjhnib,sybsbugdrcbesvybsjovbizqdsjosfiqjejomshrubvyjomszbicsaqibtnddc
josyjhspqvaybhsfbdrp.

“‘Pyqvsqibscrnsuq jomsvybib?’shqjesqshyjguqvb.

“‘Pyqvserscrnsvyjo ?spyqvserbhsjvsdrr sdj b?’

“‘Dj bsqsdqocqiestriscrnisfqm;sfnvsjv’hsqosreesrob,shbbuhsvrsub.’

“‘Cbh,siqvybisreejhy,’shqjesvybsDq buqo,syrdejomsjvsqvsqiu’hsdbomvy
fbtribsyju;s‘fnvsJsvyjo sjvspjddsqohpbi.sHyjguqvb,sJsyqzbo’vsbornmy
vpjob,—yqzbscrnsqoc?’

“Fnvsvybibspqhsorobsjosvybstribaqhvdb.

“‘VybosJsunhvsmbvshrubstirusrdesIqe;’sqoesybsirhbsvrsmrsqtv.

“‘Crnsero’vsubqosvrsmrsqsfbmmjomsvrs_yju!_’shqjesqshqjdri.

“‘Pycsorv?sErscrnsvyjo sybspro’vsersubsqsvnio,spybosjv’hsvrsybdg
yjuhbdtsjosvybsboe,shyjguqvb?’sqoesmrjomsvrsvybsuqvb,sybsdrr besqvsyju
lnjbvdc,sqoesqh besyjustrishrubsvpjobsvrsuboesyjhsyquura .sJvspqhsmjzbo
yju—objvybisvpjobsorisdqocqiespbibshbbosqmqjo;sfnvsvybsobxvsojmyvsqo
jirosfqdd,sadrhbdcsobvvbe,sgqivdcsirddbestirusvybsgra bvsrtsvyb
Dq buqo’hsuro bcskqa bv,sqhsybspqhsvna jomsvybsarqvsjovrsyjhsyquura 
trisqsgjddrp.sVpbovc-trnisyrnihsqtvbi,syjhsvija sqvsvybshjdbov
ybdu—ojmysvrsvybsuqospyrspqhsqgvsvrserwbsrzbisvybsmiqzbsqdpqchsibqec
enmsvrsvybshbquqo’hsyqoe—vyqvstqvqdsyrnispqhsvybosvrsarub;sqoesjosvyb
trib-rieqjojomshrndsrtsHvbbd jdv,svybsuqvbspqhsqdibqecshvqi sqoe
hvibvaybesqhsqsarighb,spjvysyjhstribybqesainhybesjo.

“Fnv,smbovdbubo,sqstrrdshqzbesvybsprnde-fbsuniebibistirusvybsfdrrec
ebbesybsyqesgdqoobe.sCbvsarugdbvbsibzbombsybsyqe,sqoespjvyrnvsfbjomsvyb
qzbombi.sTrisfcsqsuchvbijrnhstqvqdjvc,sYbqzbosjvhbdtshbbubesvrshvbgsjo
vrsvq bsrnvsrtsyjhsyqoehsjovrsjvhsrposvybsequojomsvyjomsybsprndesyqzb
erob.

“Jvspqhsknhvsfbvpbboseqcfibq sqoeshnoijhbsrtsvybsuriojomsrtsvybshbaroe
eqc,spybosvybcspbibspqhyjomserposvybseba h,svyqvsqshvngjesVbobijttb
uqo,seiqpjomspqvbisjosvybsuqjo-ayqjoh,sqddsqvsroabshyrnvbesrnv,s‘Vybib
hybsirddh!svybibshybsirddh!’sKbhn,spyqvsqspyqdb!sJvspqhsUrfcsEja .

“‘UrfcsEja !’saijbesErosHbfqhvjqo;s‘Hv.sErujoja!sHjishqjdri,sfnvser
pyqdbhsyqzbsayijhvbojomh?sPyrusaqddscrnsUrfcsEja ?’

“‘Qszbicspyjvb,sqoestqurnh,sqoesurhvsebqedcsjuurivqdsurohvbi,sEro;—fnv
vyqvsprndesfbsvrrsdromsqshvric.’

“‘Yrp?syrp?’saijbesqddsvybscrnomsHgqojqieh,sairpejom.

“‘Oqc,sEroh,sEroh—oqc,soqc!sJsaqoorvsibybqihbsvyqvsorp.sDbvsubsmbvsurib
jovrsvybsqji,sHjih.’

“‘Vybsayjayq!svybsayjayq!’saijbesErosGbeir;s‘rniszjmrirnhstijboesdrr h
tqjov;—tjddsngsyjhsbugvcsmdqhh!’

“Orsobbe,smbovdbubo;srobsurubov,sqoesJsgirabbe.—Orp,smbovdbubo,shr
hneebodcsgbiabjzjomsvybshorpcspyqdbspjvyjostjtvcscqiehsrtsvyb
hyjg—trimbvtndsrtsvybsarugqavsquromsvybsaibp—josvybsbxajvbubovsrtsvyb
urubov,svybsVbobijttbsuqosyqesjohvjoavjzbdcsqoesjozrdnovqijdcsdjtvbe
yjhszrjabstrisvybsurohvbi,svyrnmystrishrubsdjvvdbsvjubsgqhvsjvsyqesfbbo
gdqjodcsfbybdestirusvybsvyibbshnddbosuqhv-ybqeh.sQddspqhsorpsqsgyibohc.
‘VybsPyjvbsPyqdb—vybsPyjvbsPyqdb!’spqhsvybsaicstirusaqgvqjo,suqvbh,sqoe
yqigrrobbih,spyr,snoebvbiibesfcstbqitndsinurnih,spbibsqddsqoxjrnhsvr
aqgvnibshrstqurnhsqoesgibajrnhsqstjhy;spyjdbsvybsermmbesaibpsbcbe
qh qoab,sqoespjvysanihbh,svybsqggqddjomsfbqnvcsrtsvybszqhvsujd csuqhh,
vyqvsdjvsngsfcsqsyrijwrovqdshgqomdjomshno,shyjtvbesqoesmdjhvbobesdj bsq
djzjomsrgqdsjosvybsfdnbsuriojomshbq.sMbovdbubo,sqshviqombstqvqdjvc
gbizqebhsvybspyrdbsaqibbisrtsvybhbsbzbovh,sqhsjtszbijdcsuqggbesrnv
fbtribsvybspridesjvhbdtspqhsayqivbe.sVybsunvjobbispqhsvybsfrphuqosrt
vybsuqvb,sqoespybostqhvsvrsqstjhy,sjvspqhsyjhsenvcsvrshjvsobxvsyju,
pyjdbsIqeobcshvrresngspjvysyjhsdqoabsjosvybsgirp,sqoesyqndsjosri
hdqa bosvybsdjob,sqvsvybspriesrtsaruuqoe.sUribrzbi,spybosvybstrnisfrqvh
pbibsdrpbibe,svybsuqvb’hsmrvsvybshvqiv;sqoesorobsyrpdbesuribstjbiabdc
pjvysebdjmyvsvyqosejesHvbbd jdv,sqhsybshviqjobesqvsyjhsrqi.sQtvbisq
hvjttsgndd,svybjisyqigrrobbismrvstqhv,sqoe,shgbqisjosyqoe,sIqeobc
hgiqomsvrsvybsfrp.sYbspqhsqdpqchsqstnijrnhsuqo,sjvshbbuh,sjosqsfrqv.
Qoesorpsyjhsfqoeqmbesaicspqh,svrsfbqaysyjusrosvybspyqdb’hsvrgurhvsfqa .
Orvyjomsdrqvy,syjhsfrphuqosyqndbesyjusngsqoesng,svyirnmysqsfdjoejom
trqusvyqvsfdbovsvprspyjvbobhhbhsvrmbvybi;svjddsrtsqshneebosvybsfrqv
hvina sqhsqmqjohvsqshno bosdbemb,sqoes bbdjomsrzbi,shgjddbesrnvsvyb
hvqoejomsuqvb.sVyqvsjohvqov,sqhsybstbddsrosvybspyqdb’hshdjggbicsfqa ,
vybsfrqvsijmyvbe,sqoespqhseqhybesqhjebsfcsvybshpbdd,spyjdbsIqeobcspqh
vrhhbesrzbisjovrsvybshbq,srosvybsrvybistdqo srtsvybspyqdb.sYbshvina 
rnvsvyirnmysvybshgiqc,sqoe,strisqosjohvqov,spqhsejudcshbbosvyirnmysvyqv
zbjd,spjdedcshbb jomsvrsiburzbsyjuhbdtstirusvybsbcbsrtsUrfcsEja .sFnv
vybspyqdbsinhybesirnoesjosqshneebosuqbdhviru;shbjwbesvybshpjuubi
fbvpbbosyjhskqph;sqoesibqijomsyjmysngspjvysyju,sgdnombesybqedromsqmqjo,
qoespbovserpo.

“Ubqovjub,sqvsvybstjihvsvqgsrtsvybsfrqv’hsfrvvru,svybsDq buqosyqe
hdqa bobesvybsdjob,shrsqhsvrseirgsqhvbiostirusvybspyjidgrrd;saqdudc
drr jomsro,sybsvyrnmyvsyjhsrposvyrnmyvh.sFnvsqshneebo,svbiijtja,
erpopqieskbi jomsrtsvybsfrqv,slnja dcsfirnmyvsyjhs ojtbsvrsvybsdjob.sYb
anvsjv;sqoesvybspyqdbspqhstibb.sFnv,sqvshrubsejhvqoab,sUrfcsEja sirhb
qmqjo,spjvyshrubsvqvvbihsrtsIqeobc’hsibesprrddboshyjiv,saqnmyvsjosvyb
vbbvysvyqvsyqesebhvircbesyju.sQddstrnisfrqvhsmqzbsayqhbsqmqjo;sfnvsvyb
pyqdbsbdnebesvybu,sqoestjoqddcspyrddcsejhqggbqibe.

“Josmrresvjub,svybsVrpo-Yrsibqaybesybisgriv—qshqzqmb,shrdjvqic
gdqab—pybibsorsajzjdjwbesaibqvnibsibhjebe.sVybib,sybqebesfcsvyb
Dq buqo,sqddsfnvstjzbsrishjxsrtsvybstribuqhvubosebdjfbiqvbdcsebhbivbe
quromsvybsgqduh;sbzbovnqddc,sqhsjvsvniobesrnv,shbjwjomsqsdqimbsernfdb
pqi-aqorbsrtsvybshqzqmbh,sqoeshbvvjomshqjdstrishrubsrvybisyqifri.

“Vybshyjg’hsarugqocsfbjomsibenabesvrsfnvsqsyqoetnd,svybsaqgvqjosaqddbe
ngrosvybsJhdqoebihsvrsqhhjhvsyjusjosvybsdqfrijrnhsfnhjobhhsrtsybqzjom
erposvybshyjgsvrshvrgsvybsdbq .sFnvsvrshnaysnoibhvjomszjmjdqoabsrzbi
vybjiseqombirnhsqddjbhspqhsvyjhshuqddsfqoesrtspyjvbhsobabhhjvqvbe,sfrvy
fcsojmyvsqoesfcseqc,sqoeshrsbxvibubspqhsvybsyqiespri svybcsnoebipbov,
vyqvsngrosvybszbhhbdsfbjomsibqecsqmqjostrishbq,svybcspbibsjoshnaysq
pbq bobesaroejvjrosvyqvsvybsaqgvqjosenihvsorvsgnvsrttspjvysvybusjoshr
ybqzcsqszbhhbd.sQtvbisvq jomsarnohbdspjvysyjhsrttjabih,sybsqoayribesvyb
hyjgsqhstqisrttshyribsqhsgrhhjfdb;sdrqebesqoesiqosrnvsyjhsvprsaqooro
tirusvybsfrph;shvqa besyjhsunh bvhsrosvybsgrrg;sqoespqiojomsvyb
Jhdqoebihsorvsvrsqggirqaysvybshyjgsqvsvybjisgbijd,svrr srobsuqospjvy
yju,sqoeshbvvjomsvybshqjdsrtsyjhsfbhvspyqdb-frqv,shvbbibeshviqjmyv
fbtribsvybspjoestrisVqyjvj,stjzbsynoeibesujdbhsejhvqov,svrsgiranibsq
ibjotriabubovsvrsyjhsaibp.

“Rosvybstrnivyseqcsrtsvybshqjd,sqsdqimbsaqorbspqhsebhaijbe,spyjay
hbbubesvrsyqzbsvrnaybesqvsqsdrpsjhdbsrtsariqdh.sYbshvbbibesqpqcstiru
jv;sfnvsvybshqzqmbsaiqtvsfribserposrosyju;sqoeshrrosvybszrjabsrt
Hvbbd jdvsyqjdbesyjusvrsybqzbsvr,srisybsprndesinosyjusnoebispqvbi.sVyb
aqgvqjosgibhbovbesqsgjhvrd.sPjvysrobstrrvsrosbqaysgirpsrtsvybscr be
pqi-aqorbh,svybsDq buqosdqnmybesyjusvrshario;sqhhnijomsyjusvyqvsjtsvyb
gjhvrdshrsunaysqhsadja besjosvybsdra ,sybsprndesfnicsyjusjosfnffdbhsqoe
trqu.

“‘Pyqvserscrnspqovsrtsub?’saijbesvybsaqgvqjo.

“‘Pybibsqibscrnsfrnoe?sqoestrispyqvsqibscrnsfrnoe?’sebuqoebesHvbbd jdv;
‘orsdjbh.’

“‘JsqusfrnoesvrsVqyjvjstrisuribsubo.’

“‘Zbicsmrre.sDbvsubsfrqiescrnsqsurubov—Jsarubsjosgbqab.’sPjvysvyqvsyb
dbqgbestirusvybsaqorb,shpqusvrsvybsfrqv;sqoesadjufjomsvybsmnopqdb,
hvrrestqabsvrstqabspjvysvybsaqgvqjo.

“‘Airhhscrnisqiuh,shji;svyirpsfqa scrnisybqe.sOrp,sibgbqvsqtvbisub.sQh
hrrosqhsHvbbd jdvsdbqzbhsub,sJshpbqisvrsfbqaysvyjhsfrqvsroscroebi
jhdqoe,sqoesibuqjosvybibshjxseqch.sJtsJsersorv,suqcsdjmyvojomhshvij b
ub!’

“‘Qsgibvvcshayrdqi,’sdqnmybesvybsDq buqo.s‘Qejrh,sHbori!’sqoesdbqgjom
jovrsvybshbq,sybshpqusfqa svrsyjhsaruiqebh.

“Pqvayjomsvybsfrqvsvjddsjvspqhstqjidcsfbqaybe,sqoeseiqposngsvrsvyb
irrvhsrtsvybsararq-onvsvibbh,sHvbbd jdvsuqebshqjdsqmqjo,sqoesjosenb
vjubsqiijzbesqvsVqyjvj,syjhsrposgdqabsrtsebhvjoqvjro.sVybib,sdna 
fbtijboebesyju;svprshyjghspbibsqfrnvsvrshqjdstrisTiqoab,sqoespbib
girzjebovjqddcsjospqovsrtsgibajhbdcsvyqvsonufbisrtsubospyjaysvybshqjdri
ybqebe.sVybcsbufqi be;sqoeshrstrisbzbismrvsvybshvqivsrtsvybjistriubi
aqgvqjo,syqesybsfbbosqvsqddsujoebesvrspri svybusdbmqdsibvijfnvjro.

“HrubsvboseqchsqtvbisvybsTiboayshyjghshqjdbe,svybspyqdb-frqvsqiijzbe,
qoesvybsaqgvqjospqhstriabesvrsbodjhvshrubsrtsvybsuribsajzjdjwbe
Vqyjvjqoh,spyrsyqesfbboshrubpyqvsnhbesvrsvybshbq.sAyqivbijomsqshuqdd
oqvjzbshayrrobi,sybsibvniobespjvysvybusvrsyjhszbhhbd;sqoestjoejomsqdd
ijmyvsvybib,sqmqjosibhnubesyjhsainjhjomh.

“PybibsHvbbd jdvsorpsjh,smbovdbubo,sorobs orp;sfnvsngrosvybsjhdqoesrt
Oqovna bv,svybspjerpsrtsIqeobcshvjddsvniohsvrsvybshbqspyjaysibtnhbhsvr
mjzbsngsjvhsebqe;shvjddsjoseibquhshbbhsvybsqptndspyjvbspyqdbsvyqv
ebhvircbesyju.ss*s*s*s*

“‘Qibscrnsvyirnmy?’shqjesErosHbfqhvjqo,slnjbvdc.

“‘Jsqu,sEro.’

“‘VybosJsbovibqvscrn,svbddsubsjtsvrsvybsfbhvsrtscrnisrposarozjavjroh,
vyjhscrnishvricsjhsjoshnfhvqoabsibqddcsvinb?sJvsjhshrsgqhhjom
proebitnd!sEjescrnsmbvsjvstirusqosnolnbhvjroqfdbshrniab?sFbqispjvysub
jtsJshbbusvrsgibhh.’

“‘Qdhrsfbqispjvysqddsrtsnh,shjishqjdri;strispbsqddskrjosjosEro
Hbfqhvjqo’hshnjv,’saijbesvybsarugqoc,spjvysbxabbejomsjovbibhv.

“‘JhsvybibsqsargcsrtsvybsYrdcsBzqombdjhvhsjosvybsMrdebosJoo,
mbovdbubo?’

“‘Oqc,’shqjesErosHbfqhvjqo;s‘fnvsJs orpsqsprivycsgijbhvsobqisfc,spyr
pjddslnja dcsgiranibsrobstrisub.sJsmrstrisjv;sfnvsqibscrnspbddsqezjhbe?
vyjhsuqcsmirpsvrrshbijrnh.’

“‘Pjddscrnsfbshrsmrresqhsvrsfijomsvybsgijbhvsqdhr,sEro?’

“‘VyrnmysvybibsqibsorsQnvr-eq-TéhsjosDjuqsorp,’shqjesrobsrtsvybsarugqoc
vrsqorvybi;s‘Jstbqisrnishqjdristijboesinohsijh srtsvybsqiayjbgjhargqac.
Dbvsnhspjvyeiqpsuribsrnvsrtsvybsurrodjmyv.sJshbbsorsobbesrtsvyjh.’

“‘Bxanhbsubstrisinoojomsqtvbiscrn,sErosHbfqhvjqo;sfnvsuqcsJsqdhrsfbm
vyqvscrnspjddsfbsgqivjandqisjosgiranijomsvybsdqimbhvshjwbesBzqombdjhvh
crnsaqo.’

*s*s*s*s*s*

“‘Vyjhsjhsvybsgijbhv,sybsfijomhscrnsvybsBzqombdjhvh,’shqjesEro
Hbfqhvjqo,smiqzbdc,sibvniojomspjvysqsvqddsqoeshrdbuostjmnib.

“‘Dbvsubsiburzbsucsyqv.sOrp,szbobiqfdbsgijbhv,stnivybisjovrsvybsdjmyv,
qoesyrdesvybsYrdcsFrr sfbtribsubsvyqvsJsuqcsvrnaysjv.

“‘HrsybdgsubsYbqzbo,sqoesrosucsyrorisvybshvricsJsyqzbsvrdescb,
mbovdbubo,sjhsjoshnfhvqoabsqoesjvhsmibqvsjvbuh,svinb.sJs orpsjvsvrsfb
vinb;sjvsyqggbobesrosvyjhsfqdd;sJsviresvybshyjg;sJs obpsvybsaibp;sJ
yqzbshbbosqoesvqd bespjvysHvbbd jdvshjoabsvybsebqvysrtsIqeobc.’”


AYQGVBIs55.sRtsvybsUrohvirnhsGjavnibhsrtsPyqdbh.

Jshyqddsbibsdromsgqjovsvrscrnsqhspbddsqhsrobsaqospjvyrnvsaqozqh,
hrubvyjomsdj bsvybsvinbstriusrtsvybspyqdbsqhsybsqavnqddcsqggbqihsvrsvyb
bcbsrtsvybspyqdbuqospybosjosyjhsrposqfhrdnvbsfrecsvybspyqdbsjhsurribe
qdromhjebsvybspyqdb-hyjgshrsvyqvsybsaqosfbstqjidcshvbggbesngrosvybib.
Jvsuqcsfbsprivyspyjdb,svybibtrib,sgibzjrnhdcsvrsqezbivsvrsvyrhbsanijrnh
juqmjoqicsgriviqjvhsrtsyjuspyjaysbzboserposvrsvybsgibhbovseqc
arotjebovdcsayqddbombsvybstqjvysrtsvybsdqoehuqo.sJvsjhsvjubsvrshbvsvyb
pridesijmyvsjosvyjhsuqvvbi,sfcsgirzjomshnaysgjavnibhsrtsvybspyqdbsqdd
pirom.

Jvsuqcsfbsvyqvsvybsgijuqdshrniabsrtsqddsvyrhbsgjavrijqdsebdnhjrohspjdd
fbstrnoesquromsvybsrdebhvsYjoerr,sBmcgvjqo,sqoesMibajqoshandgvnibh.sTri
bzbishjoabsvyrhbsjozbovjzbsfnvsnohaingndrnhsvjubhspybosrosvybsuqifdb
gqobddjomhsrtsvbugdbh,svybsgbebhvqdhsrtshvqvnbh,sqoesroshyjbdeh,
ubeqddjroh,sangh,sqoesarjoh,svybserdgyjospqhseiqposjoshaqdbhsrt
ayqjo-qiurisdj bsHqdqejo’h,sqoesqsybdubvbesybqesdj bsHv.sMbrimb’h;sbzbi
hjoabsvybosyqhshrubvyjomsrtsvybshqubshrivsrtsdjabohbsgibzqjdbe,sorv
rodcsjosurhvsgrgndqisgjavnibhsrtsvybspyqdb,sfnvsjosuqocshajbovjtja
gibhbovqvjrohsrtsyju.

Orp,sfcsqddsreeh,svybsurhvsqoajbovsbxvqovsgriviqjvsqocpqchsgnigrivjom
vrsfbsvybspyqdb’h,sjhsvrsfbstrnoesjosvybstqurnhsaqzbio-gqmreqsrt
Bdbgyqovq,sjosJoejq.sVybsFiqyujohsuqjovqjosvyqvsjosvybsqdurhvsboedbhh
handgvnibhsrtsvyqvsjuuburijqdsgqmreq,sqddsvybsviqebhsqoesgnihnjvh,
bzbicsaroabjzqfdbsqzraqvjrosrtsuqo,spbibsgibtjmnibesqmbhsfbtribsqocsrt
vybusqavnqddcsaqubsjovrsfbjom.sOrsproebisvybo,svyqvsjoshrubshrivsrni
orfdbsgirtbhhjrosrtspyqdjomshyrndesyqzbsfbbosvybibshyqerpbestrivy.sVyb
Yjoerrspyqdbsibtbiibesvr,sraanihsjosqshbgqiqvbsebgqivubovsrtsvybspqdd,
ebgjavjomsvybsjoaqioqvjrosrtsZjhyonsjosvybstriusrtsdbzjqvyqo,sdbqiobedc
 orposqhsvybsUqvhbsQzqvqi.sFnvsvyrnmysvyjhshandgvnibsjhsyqdtsuqosqoe
yqdtspyqdb,shrsqhsrodcsvrsmjzbsvybsvqjdsrtsvybsdqvvbi,scbvsvyqvshuqdd
hbavjrosrtsyjusjhsqddspirom.sJvsdrr hsuribsdj bsvybsvqgbijomsvqjdsrtsqo
qoqaroeq,svyqosvybsfirqesgqduhsrtsvybsvinbspyqdb’hsuqkbhvjastdn bh.

FnvsmrsvrsvybsrdesMqddbijbh,sqoesdrr sorpsqvsqsmibqvsAyijhvjqo
gqjovbi’hsgriviqjvsrtsvyjhstjhy;strisybshnaabbehsorsfbvvbisvyqosvyb
qovbejdnzjqosYjoerr.sJvsjhsMnjer’hsgjavnibsrtsGbihbnhsibhanjom
Qoeirubeqstirusvybshbq-urohvbisrispyqdb.sPybibsejesMnjersmbvsvybsurebd
rtshnaysqshviqombsaibqvnibsqhsvyqv?sOriserbhsYrmqivy,sjosgqjovjomsvyb
hqubshabobsjosyjhsrpos“GbihbnhsEbhaboejom,”suq bsrnvsrobspyjvsfbvvbi.
VybsynmbsarigndboabsrtsvyqvsYrmqivyjqosurohvbisnoendqvbhsrosvyb
hnitqab,shaqiabdcseiqpjomsrobsjoaysrtspqvbi.sJvsyqhsqshrivsrtsyrpeqysro
jvhsfqa ,sqoesjvhsejhvboebesvnh besurnvysjovrspyjaysvybsfjddrphsqib
irddjom,sujmyvsfbsvq bostrisvybsViqjvrih’sMqvbsdbqejomstirusvybsVyqubh
fcspqvbisjovrsvybsVrpbi.sVybo,svybibsqibsvybsGireirunhspyqdbhsrtsrde
HarvaysHjffqde,sqoesKroqy’hspyqdb,sqhsebgjavbesjosvybsgijovhsrtsrde
Fjfdbhsqoesvybsanvhsrtsrdesgijubih.sPyqvshyqddsfbshqjesrtsvybhb?sQhstri
vybsfrr -fjoebi’hspyqdbspjoejomsdj bsqszjob-hvqd sirnoesvybshvra srtsq
ebhaboejomsqoayri—qhshvqugbesqoesmjdebesrosvybsfqa hsqoesvjvdb-gqmbhsrt
uqocsfrr hsfrvysrdesqoesobp—vyqvsjhsqszbicsgjavnibhlnbsfnvsgnibdc
tqfndrnhsaibqvnib,sjujvqvbe,sJsvq bsjv,stirusvybsdj bstjmnibhsro
qovjlnbszqhbh.sVyrnmysnojzbihqddcseborujoqvbesqserdgyjo,sJsobzbivybdbhh
aqddsvyjhsfrr -fjoebi’hstjhysqosqvvbugvsqvsqspyqdb;sfbaqnhbsjvspqhshr
jovboebespybosvybsebzjabspqhstjihvsjovirenabe.sJvspqhsjovirenabesfcsqo
rdesJvqdjqosgnfdjhybishrubpybibsqfrnvsvybs15vysabovnic,senijomsvyb
IbzjzqdsrtsDbqiojom;sqoesjosvyrhbseqch,sqoesbzboserposvrsq
arugqiqvjzbdcsdqvbsgbijre,serdgyjohspbibsgrgndqidcshnggrhbesvrsfbsq
hgbajbhsrtsvybsDbzjqvyqo.

Josvybszjmobvvbhsqoesrvybisbufbddjhyubovhsrtshrubsqoajbovsfrr hscrn
pjddsqvsvjubhsubbvspjvyszbicsanijrnhsvrnaybhsqvsvybspyqdb,spybibsqdd
uqoobisrtshgrnvh,skbvhse’bqn,syrvshgijomhsqoesarde,sHqiqvrmqsqoe
Fqebo-Fqebo,sarubsfnffdjomsngstirusyjhsnobxyqnhvbesfiqjo.sJosvyb
vjvdb-gqmbsrtsvybsrijmjoqdsbejvjrosrtsvybs“QezqoabubovsrtsDbqiojom”scrn
pjddstjoeshrubsanijrnhspyqdbh.

Fnvslnjvvjomsqddsvybhbsnogirtbhhjroqdsqvvbugvh,sdbvsnhsmdqoabsqvsvyrhb
gjavnibhsrtsdbzjqvyqosgnigrivjomsvrsfbshrfbi,shajbovjtjasebdjobqvjroh,
fcsvyrhbspyrs orp.sJosrdesYqiijh’hsarddbavjrosrtszrcqmbhsvybibsqibshrub
gdqvbhsrtspyqdbhsbxviqavbestirusqsEnvaysfrr srtszrcqmbh,sQ.E.s1671,
bovjvdbes“QsPyqdjomsZrcqmbsvrsHgjvwfbimbosjosvybshyjgsKroqhsjosvyb
Pyqdb,sGbvbisGbvbihrosrtsTijbhdqoe,suqhvbi.”sJosrobsrtsvyrhbsgdqvbhsvyb
pyqdbh,sdj bsmibqvsiqtvhsrtsdrmh,sqibsibgibhbovbesdcjomsqurom
jab-jhdbh,spjvyspyjvbsfbqihsinoojomsrzbisvybjisdjzjomsfqa h.sJosqorvybi
gdqvb,svybsgirejmjrnhsfdnoebisjhsuqebsrtsibgibhbovjomsvybspyqdbspjvy
gbigboejandqistdn bh.

Vybosqmqjo,svybibsjhsqosjugrhjomslnqivr,spijvvbosfcsrobsAqgvqjo
Ardobvv,sqsGrhvsAqgvqjosjosvybsBomdjhysoqzc,sbovjvdbes“QsZrcqmbsirnoe
AqgbsYriosjovrsvybsHrnvysHbqh,strisvybsgnigrhbsrtsbxvboejomsvyb
HgbiuqabvjsPyqdbsTjhybijbh.”sJosvyjhsfrr sjhsqosrnvdjobsgnigrivjomsvr
fbsqs“GjavnibsrtsqsGychbvbisrisHgbiuqabvjspyqdb,seiqposfcshaqdbstiru
robs jddbesrosvybsarqhvsrtsUbxjar,sQnmnhv,s1793,sqoesyrjhvbesroseba .”
Jsernfvsorvsvybsaqgvqjosyqesvyjhszbiqajrnhsgjavnibsvq bostrisvyb
fbobtjvsrtsyjhsuqijobh.sVrsubovjrosfnvsrobsvyjomsqfrnvsjv,sdbvsubshqc
vyqvsjvsyqhsqosbcbspyjaysqggdjbe,sqaariejomsvrsvybsqaarugqocjomshaqdb,
vrsqstnddsmirposhgbiuspyqdb,sprndesuq bsvybsbcbsrtsvyqvspyqdbsq
frp-pjoerpshrubstjzbstbbvsdrom.sQy,sucsmqddqovsaqgvqjo,spycsejescbsorv
mjzbsnhsKroqysdrr jomsrnvsrtsvyqvsbcb!

OrisqibsvybsurhvsarohajbovjrnhsarugjdqvjrohsrtsOqvniqdsYjhvricstrisvyb
fbobtjvsrtsvybscrnomsqoesvboebi,stibbstirusvybshqubsybjornhobhhsrt
ujhvq b.sDrr sqvsvyqvsgrgndqispri s“Mrdehujvy’hsQojuqvbesOqvnib.”sJo
vybsqfijembesDroerosbejvjrosrts1807,svybibsqibsgdqvbhsrtsqosqddbmbe
“pyqdb”sqoesqs“oqipyqdb.”sJsersorvspjhysvrshbbusjobdbmqov,sfnvsvyjh
nohjmyvdcspyqdbsdrr hsunaysdj bsqosqugnvqvbeshrp;sqoe,sqhstrisvyb
oqipyqdb,srobsmdjughbsqvsjvsjhsbornmysvrsquqwbsrob,svyqvsjosvyjh
ojobvbbovysabovnicshnaysqsyjggrmijttsarndesfbsgqdubestrismbonjobsngro
qocsjovbddjmbovsgnfdjasrtshayrrdfrch.

Vybo,sqmqjo,sjos1825,sFbioqiesMbiuqjo,sArnovsebsDqaégèeb,sqsmibqv
oqvniqdjhv,sgnfdjhybesqshajbovjtjashchvbujwbespyqdbsfrr ,spybibjosqib
hbzbiqdsgjavnibhsrtsvybsejttbibovshgbajbhsrtsvybsDbzjqvyqo.sQddsvybhb
qibsorvsrodcsjoariibav,sfnvsvybsgjavnibsrtsvybsUchvjabvnhsrisMibbodqoe
pyqdbs(vyqvsjhsvrshqc,svybsIjmyvspyqdb),sbzbosHaribhfc,sqsdrom
bxgbijboabesuqosqhsvrnayjomsvyqvshgbajbh,sebadqibhsorvsvrsyqzbsjvh
arnovbigqivsjosoqvnib.

Fnvsvybsgdqajomsrtsvybsaqg-hybqtsvrsqddsvyjhsfdnoebijomsfnhjobhhspqh
ibhbizbestrisvybshajbovjtjasTibebija sAnzjbi,sfirvybisvrsvybstqurnh
Fqiro.sJos1836,sybsgnfdjhybesqsOqvniqdsYjhvricsrtsPyqdbh,sjospyjaysyb
mjzbhspyqvsybsaqddhsqsgjavnibsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb.sFbtribshyrpjomsvyqv
gjavnibsvrsqocsOqovna bvbi,scrnsyqesfbhvsgirzjebstriscrnishnuuqic
ibvibqvstirusOqovna bv.sJosqsprie,sTibebija sAnzjbi’hsHgbiusPyqdbsjh
orvsqsHgbiusPyqdb,sfnvsqshlnqhy.sRtsarnihb,sybsobzbisyqesvybsfbobtjvsrt
qspyqdjomszrcqmbs(hnaysuboshbderusyqzb),sfnvspyboabsybsebijzbesvyqv
gjavnib,spyrsaqosvbdd?sGbiyqghsybsmrvsjvsqhsyjhshajbovjtjasgibebabhhri
josvybshqubstjbde,sEbhuqibhv,smrvsrobsrtsyjhsqnvybovjasqfrivjroh;svyqv
jh,stirusqsAyjobhbseiqpjom.sQoespyqvshrivsrtsdjzbdcsdqehspjvysvyb
gboajdsvyrhbsAyjobhbsqib,suqocslnbbisanghsqoeshqnabihsjotriusnh.

Qhstrisvybshjmo-gqjovbih’spyqdbhshbbosjosvybshvibbvhsyqomjomsrzbisvyb
hyrghsrtsrjd-ebqdbih,spyqvshyqddsfbshqjesrtsvybu?sVybcsqibsmbobiqddc
IjayqiesJJJ.spyqdbh,spjvyseirubeqicsynugh,sqoeszbicshqzqmb;
fibq tqhvjomsrosvyibbsristrnishqjdrisvqivh,svyqvsjhspyqdbfrqvhstnddsrt
uqijobih:svybjisebtriujvjbhstdrnoebijomsjoshbqhsrtsfdrresqoesfdnb
gqjov.

Fnvsvybhbsuqojtrdesujhvq bhsjosebgjavjomsvybspyqdbsqibsorvshrszbic
hnigijhjomsqtvbisqdd.sArohjebi!sUrhvsrtsvybshajbovjtjaseiqpjomhsyqzb
fbbosvq bostirusvybshviqoebestjhy;sqoesvybhbsqibsqfrnvsqhsariibavsqhsq
eiqpjomsrtsqspiba beshyjg,spjvysfir bosfqa ,sprndesariibavdcsibgibhbov
vybsorfdbsqojuqdsjvhbdtsjosqddsjvhsnoeqhybesgijebsrtsynddsqoeshgqih.
Vyrnmysbdbgyqovhsyqzbshvrrestrisvybjistndd-dbomvyh,svybsdjzjom
Dbzjqvyqosyqhsobzbiscbvstqjidcstdrqvbesyjuhbdtstrisyjhsgriviqjv.sVyb
djzjomspyqdb,sjosyjhstnddsuqkbhvcsqoeshjmojtjaqoab,sjhsrodcsvrsfbshbbo
qvshbqsjosnotqvyruqfdbspqvbih;sqoesqtdrqvsvybszqhvsfnd srtsyjusjhsrnv
rtshjmyv,sdj bsqsdqnoaybesdjob-rt-fqvvdbshyjg;sqoesrnvsrtsvyqvsbdbubov
jvsjhsqsvyjomsbvbioqddcsjugrhhjfdbstrisurivqdsuqosvrsyrjhvsyjusfrejdc
jovrsvybsqji,shrsqhsvrsgibhbizbsqddsyjhsujmyvcshpbddhsqoesnoendqvjroh.
Qoe,sorvsvrshgbq srtsvybsyjmydcsgibhnuqfdbsejttbiboabsrtsarovrni
fbvpbbosqscrnomshna jomspyqdbsqoesqstndd-mirposGdqvrojqosDbzjqvyqo;
cbv,sbzbosjosvybsaqhbsrtsrobsrtsvyrhbscrnomshna jomspyqdbhsyrjhvbesvrsq
hyjg’hseba ,shnaysjhsvybosvybsrnvdqoejhy,sbbd-dj b,sdjufbibe,szqicjom
hyqgbsrtsyju,svyqvsyjhsgibajhbsbxgibhhjrosvybsebzjdsyjuhbdtsarndesorv
aqvay.

Fnvsjvsuqcsfbstqoajbe,svyqvstirusvybsoq besh bdbvrosrtsvybshviqoebe
pyqdb,sqaaniqvbsyjovhsuqcsfbsebijzbesvrnayjomsyjhsvinbstriu.sOrvsqv
qdd.sTrisjvsjhsrobsrtsvybsuribsanijrnhsvyjomhsqfrnvsvyjhsDbzjqvyqo,
vyqvsyjhsh bdbvrosmjzbhszbicsdjvvdbsjebqsrtsyjhsmbobiqdshyqgb.sVyrnmy
KbibucsFbovyqu’hsh bdbvro,spyjaysyqomhstrisaqoebdqfiqsjosvybsdjfiqicsrt
robsrtsyjhsbxbanvrih,sariibavdcsarozbchsvybsjebqsrtsqsfnidc-firpbe
nvjdjvqijqosrdesmbovdbuqo,spjvysqddsKbibuc’hsrvybisdbqejomsgbihroqd
ayqiqavbijhvjah;scbvsorvyjomsrtsvyjhs joesarndesfbsjotbiibestirusqoc
dbzjqvyqo’hsqivjandqvbesfrobh.sJostqav,sqhsvybsmibqvsYnovbishqch,svyb
ubibsh bdbvrosrtsvybspyqdbsfbqihsvybshqubsibdqvjrosvrsvybstnddc
jozbhvbesqoesgqeebesqojuqdsqhsvybsjohbavserbhsvrsvybsayichqdjhsvyqvshr
irnoejomdcsbozbdrgbhsjv.sVyjhsgbandjqijvcsjhshvij jomdcsbzjoabesjosvyb
ybqe,sqhsjoshrubsgqivsrtsvyjhsfrr spjddsfbsjoajebovqddcshyrpo.sJvsjh
qdhrszbicsanijrnhdcsejhgdqcbesjosvybshjebstjo,svybsfrobhsrtspyjay
qdurhvsbxqavdcsqohpbisvrsvybsfrobhsrtsvybsynuqosyqoe,sujonhsrodcsvyb
vynuf.sVyjhstjosyqhstrnisibmndqisfrob-tjombih,svybsjoebx,sujeedb,sijom,
qoesdjvvdbstjombi.sFnvsqddsvybhbsqibsgbiuqobovdcsdrembesjosvybjistdbhyc
arzbijom,sqhsvybsynuqostjombihsjosqosqivjtjajqdsarzbijom.s“Yrpbzbi
iba dbhhdcsvybspyqdbsuqcshrubvjubhshbizbsnh,”shqjesynurirnhsHvnffsrob
eqc,s“ybsaqosobzbisfbsvindcshqjesvrsyqoedbsnhspjvyrnvsujvvboh.”

Trisqddsvybhbsibqhroh,svybo,sqocspqcscrnsuqcsdrr sqvsjv,scrnsunhvsobbeh
aroadnebsvyqvsvybsmibqvsDbzjqvyqosjhsvyqvsrobsaibqvnibsjosvybspride
pyjaysunhvsibuqjosnogqjovbesvrsvybsdqhv.sVinb,srobsgriviqjvsuqcsyjvsvyb
uqi sunaysobqibisvyqosqorvybi,sfnvsorobsaqosyjvsjvspjvysqocszbic
arohjebiqfdbsebmibbsrtsbxqavobhh.sHrsvybibsjhsorsbqivydcspqcsrtstjoejom
rnvsgibajhbdcspyqvsvybspyqdbsibqddcsdrr hsdj b.sQoesvybsrodcsurebsjo
pyjayscrnsaqosebijzbsbzbosqsvrdbiqfdbsjebqsrtsyjhsdjzjomsarovrni,sjhsfc
mrjomsqspyqdjomscrnihbdt;sfnvsfcshrserjom,scrnsinosorshuqddsijh srt
fbjomsbvbioqddcshvrzbsqoeshno sfcsyju.sPybibtrib,sjvshbbuhsvrsubscrn
yqesfbhvsorvsfbsvrrstqhvjejrnhsjoscrnisanijrhjvcsvrnayjomsvyjh
Dbzjqvyqo.


AYQGVBIs56.sRtsvybsDbhhsBiirobrnhsGjavnibhsrtsPyqdbh,sqoesvybsVinb
GjavnibhsrtsPyqdjomsHabobh.

Josaroobxjrospjvysvybsurohvirnhsgjavnibhsrtspyqdbh,sJsqushviromdc
vbugvbesybibsvrsbovbisngrosvyrhbshvjddsuribsurohvirnhshvrijbhsrtsvybu
pyjaysqibsvrsfbstrnoesjosabivqjosfrr h,sfrvysqoajbovsqoesurebio,
bhgbajqddcsjosGdjoc,sGniayqh,sYqa dncv,sYqiijh,sAnzjbi,sbva.sFnvsJsgqhh
vyqvsuqvvbisfc.

Js orpsrtsrodcstrnisgnfdjhybesrnvdjobhsrtsvybsmibqvsHgbiusPyqdb;
Ardobvv’h,sYnmmjoh’h,sTibebija sAnzjbi’h,sqoesFbqdb’h.sJosvybsgibzjrnh
ayqgvbisArdobvvsqoesAnzjbisyqzbsfbbosibtbiibesvr.sYnmmjoh’hsjhstqi
fbvvbisvyqosvybjih;sfnv,sfcsmibqvsreeh,sFbqdb’hsjhsvybsfbhv.sQdd
Fbqdb’hseiqpjomhsrtsvyjhspyqdbsqibsmrre,sbxabgvjomsvybsujeedbstjmnibsjo
vybsgjavnibsrtsvyibbspyqdbhsjoszqijrnhsqvvjvnebh,saqggjomsyjhshbaroe
ayqgvbi.sYjhstirovjhgjbab,sfrqvhsqvvqa jomsHgbiusPyqdbh,svyrnmysor
ernfvsaqdandqvbesvrsbxajvbsvybsajzjdshabgvjajhusrtshrubsgqidrisubo,sjh
qeujiqfdcsariibavsqoesdjtb-dj bsjosjvhsmbobiqdsbttbav.sHrubsrtsvyb
HgbiusPyqdbseiqpjomhsjosK.sIrhhsFirpobsqibsgibvvcsariibavsjosarovrni;
fnvsvybcsqibspibvaybedcsbomiqzbe.sVyqvsjhsorvsyjhstqndvsvyrnmy.

RtsvybsIjmyvsPyqdb,svybsfbhvsrnvdjobsgjavnibhsqibsjosHaribhfc;sfnvsvybc
qibseiqposrosvrrshuqddsqshaqdbsvrsarozbcsqsebhjiqfdbsjugibhhjro.sYbsyqh
fnvsrobsgjavnibsrtspyqdjomshabobh,sqoesvyjhsjhsqshqesebtjajboac,
fbaqnhbsjvsjhsfcshnaysgjavnibhsrodc,spybosqvsqddspbddserob,svyqvscrn
aqosebijzbsqocvyjomsdj bsqsvinvytndsjebqsrtsvybsdjzjomspyqdbsqhshbbosfc
yjhsdjzjomsynovbih.

Fnv,svq bostrisqddsjosqdd,sfcstqisvybstjobhv,svyrnmysjoshrubsebvqjdh
orvsvybsurhvsariibav,sgibhbovqvjrohsrtspyqdbhsqoespyqdjomshabobhsvrsfb
qocpybibstrnoe,sqibsvprsdqimbsTiboaysbomiqzjomh,spbddsbxbanvbe,sqoe
vq bostirusgqjovjomhsfcsrobsMqiobic.sIbhgbavjzbdc,svybcsibgibhbov
qvvqa hsrosvybsHgbiusqoesIjmyvsPyqdb.sJosvybstjihvsbomiqzjomsqsorfdb
HgbiusPyqdbsjhsebgjavbesjostnddsuqkbhvcsrtsujmyv,sknhvsijhbosfbobqvy
vybsfrqvstirusvybsgirtnoejvjbhsrtsvybsrabqo,sqoesfbqijomsyjmysjosvyb
qjisngrosyjhsfqa svybsvbiijtjaspiba srtsvybshvrzbosgdqo h.sVybsgirpsrt
vybsfrqvsjhsgqivjqddcsnofir bo,sqoesjhseiqposknhvsfqdqoajomsngrosvyb
urohvbi’hshgjob;sqoeshvqoejomsjosvyqvsgirp,strisvyqvsrobshjomdb
joarugnvqfdbstdqhysrtsvjub,scrnsfbyrdesqosrqihuqo,syqdtshyirnebesfcsvyb
joabohbesfrjdjomshgrnvsrtsvybspyqdb,sqoesjosvybsqavsrtsdbqgjom,sqhsjt
tirusqsgibajgjab.sVybsqavjrosrtsvybspyrdbsvyjomsjhsproebitnddcsmrresqoe
vinb.sVybsyqdt-bugvjbesdjob-vnfstdrqvhsrosvybspyjvbobeshbq;svybsprrebo
grdbhsrtsvybshgjddbesyqigrrohsrfdjlnbdcsfrfsjosjv;svybsybqehsrtsvyb
hpjuujomsaibpsqibshaqvvbibesqfrnvsvybspyqdbsjosaroviqhvjomsbxgibhhjroh
rtsqttijmyv;spyjdbsjosvybsfdqa shvriucsejhvqoabsvybshyjgsjhsfbqijom
erposngrosvybshabob.sHbijrnhstqndvsujmyvsfbstrnoespjvysvybsqoqvrujaqd
ebvqjdhsrtsvyjhspyqdb,sfnvsdbvsvyqvsgqhh;shjoab,strisvybsdjtbsrtsub,sJ
arndesorvseiqpshrsmrresqsrob.

Josvybshbaroesbomiqzjom,svybsfrqvsjhsjosvybsqavsrtseiqpjomsqdromhjeb
vybsfqioqadbestdqo srtsqsdqimbsinoojomsIjmyvsPyqdb,svyqvsirddhsyjh
fdqa spbbecsfnd sjosvybshbqsdj bshrubsurhhcsira -hdjebstirusvyb
Gqvqmrojqosadjtth.sYjhskbvhsqibsbibav,stndd,sqoesfdqa sdj bshrrv;shr
vyqvstirushrsqfrnoejomsqshur bsjosvybsayjuobc,scrnsprndesvyjo svybib
unhvsfbsqsfiqzbshnggbisarr jomsjosvybsmibqvsfrpbdhsfbdrp.sHbqstrpdhsqib
gba jomsqvsvybshuqddsaiqfh,shybdd-tjhy,sqoesrvybishbqsaqoejbhsqoe
uqaaqiroj,spyjaysvybsIjmyvsPyqdbshrubvjubhsaqiijbhsrosyjhsgbhvjdbov
fqa .sQoesqddsvybspyjdbsvybsvyja -djggbesdbzjqvyqosjhsinhyjomsvyirnmy
vybsebbg,sdbqzjomsvrohsrtsvnundvnrnhspyjvbsaniehsjosyjhspq b,sqoe
aqnhjomsvybshdjmyvsfrqvsvrsira sjosvybshpbddhsdj bsqsh jttsaqnmyvsojmy
vybsgqeedb-pybbdhsrtsqosrabqoshvbqubi.sVynh,svybstribmirnoesjhsqdd
iqmjomsaruurvjro;sfnvsfbyjoe,sjosqeujiqfdbsqivjhvjasaroviqhv,sjhsvyb
mdqhhcsdbzbdsrtsqshbqsfbaqdube,svybseirrgjomsnohvqiaybeshqjdhsrtsvyb
grpbidbhhshyjg,sqoesvybsjobivsuqhhsrtsqsebqespyqdb,sqsarolnbibe
trivibhh,spjvysvybstdqmsrtsaqgvnibsdqwjdcsyqomjomstirusvybspyqdb-grdb
johbivbesjovrsyjhshgrnv-yrdb.

PyrsMqiobicsvybsgqjovbisjh,srispqh,sJs orpsorv.sFnvsucsdjtbstrisjvsyb
pqhsbjvybisgiqavjaqddcsarozbihqovspjvysyjhshnfkbav,srisbdhb
uqizbddrnhdcsvnvribesfcshrubsbxgbijboabespyqdbuqo.sVybsTiboaysqibsvyb
dqehstrisgqjovjomsqavjro.sMrsqoesmqwbsngrosqddsvybsgqjovjomhsrtsBnirgb,
qoespybibspjddscrnstjoeshnaysqsmqddbicsrtsdjzjomsqoesfibqvyjom
aruurvjrosrosaqozqh,sqhsjosvyqvsvijnugyqdsyqddsqvsZbihqjddbh;spybibsvyb
fbyrdebistjmyvhsyjhspqc,sgbdd-ubdd,svyirnmysvybsarohbanvjzbsmibqv
fqvvdbhsrtsTiqoab;spybibsbzbicshprieshbbuhsqstdqhysrtsvybsOrivybio
Djmyvh,sqoesvybshnaabhhjzbsqiubes jomhsqoesBugbirihseqhysfc,sdj bsq
ayqimbsrtsairpobesabovqnih?sOrvspyrddcsnoprivycsrtsqsgdqabsjosvyqv
mqddbic,sqibsvybhbshbqsfqvvdb-gjbabhsrtsMqiobic.

VybsoqvniqdsqgvjvnebsrtsvybsTiboaystrishbjwjomsvybsgjavnibhlnbobhhsrt
vyjomhshbbuhsvrsfbsgbandjqidcsbzjoabesjospyqvsgqjovjomhsqoesbomiqzjomh
vybcsyqzbsrtsvybjispyqdjomshabobh.sPjvysorvsrobsvbovysrtsBomdqoe’h
bxgbijboabsjosvybstjhybic,sqoesorvsvybsvyrnhqoevysgqivsrtsvyqvsrtsvyb
Qubijaqoh,svybcsyqzbsobzbivybdbhhstniojhybesfrvysoqvjrohspjvysvybsrodc
tjojhybesh bvaybhsqvsqddsaqgqfdbsrtsarozbcjomsvybsibqdshgjijvsrtsvyb
pyqdbsynov.sTrisvybsurhvsgqiv,svybsBomdjhysqoesQubijaqospyqdb
eiqnmyvhuboshbbusbovjibdcsarovbovspjvysgibhbovjomsvybsubayqojaqd
rnvdjobsrtsvyjomh,shnaysqhsvybszqaqovsgirtjdbsrtsvybspyqdb;spyjay,shr
tqisqhsgjavnibhlnbobhhsrtsbttbavsjhsaroabiobe,sjhsqfrnvsvqovqurnovsvr
h bvayjomsvybsgirtjdbsrtsqsgciquje.sBzbosHaribhfc,svybsknhvdcsiborpobe
Ijmyvspyqdbuqo,sqtvbismjzjomsnhsqshvjttstnddsdbomvysrtsvybsMibbodqoe
pyqdb,sqoesvyibbsristrnisebdjaqvbsujojqvnibhsrtsoqipyqdbhsqoe
grigrjhbh,svibqvhsnhsvrsqshbijbhsrtsadqhhjaqdsbomiqzjomhsrtsfrqvsyrr h,
ayrggjoms ojzbh,sqoesmiqgobdh;sqoespjvysvybsujairhargjasejdjmboabsrtsq
Dbnpboyrba shnfujvhsvrsvybsjohgbavjrosrtsqshyjzbijomspridesojobvc-hjx
tqa-hjujdbhsrtsuqmojtjbesQiavjashorpsaichvqdh.sJsubqosorsejhgqiqmbubov
vrsvybsbxabddbovszrcqmbis(Jsyrorisyjustrisqszbvbiqo),sfnvsjoshr
jugrivqovsqsuqvvbisjvspqhsabivqjodcsqosrzbihjmyvsorvsvrsyqzbsgiranibe
trisbzbicsaichvqdsqshpriosqttjeqzjvsvq bosfbtribsqsMibbodqoesKnhvjabsrt
vybsGbqab.

JosqeejvjrosvrsvyrhbstjobsbomiqzjomhstirusMqiobic,svybibsqibsvprsrvybi
Tiboaysbomiqzjomhsprivycsrtsorvb,sfcshrubsrobspyrshnfhaijfbhsyjuhbdt
“Y.sEniqoe.”sRobsrtsvybu,svyrnmysorvsgibajhbdcsqeqgvbesvrsrnisgibhbov
gnigrhb,sobzbivybdbhhsebhbizbhsubovjrosrosrvybisqaarnovh.sJvsjhsqslnjbv
orro-habobsquromsvybsjhdbhsrtsvybsGqajtja;sqsTiboayspyqdbisqoayribe,
johyrib,sjosqsaqdu,sqoesdqwjdcsvq jomspqvbisrosfrqie;svybsdrrhbobe
hqjdhsrtsvybshyjg,sqoesvybsdromsdbqzbhsrtsvybsgqduhsjosvybsfqa mirnoe,
frvyseirrgjomsvrmbvybisjosvybsfibbwbdbhhsqji.sVybsbttbavsjhszbicstjob,
pybosarohjebibespjvysibtbiboabsvrsjvhsgibhbovjomsvybsyqiecstjhybiubo
noebisrobsrtsvybjistbpsqhgbavhsrtsrijbovqdsibgrhb.sVybsrvybisbomiqzjom
jhslnjvbsqsejttbibovsqttqji:svybshyjgsyrzb-vrsngrosvybsrgboshbq,sqoesjo
vybszbicsybqivsrtsvybsDbzjqvyqojasdjtb,spjvysqsIjmyvsPyqdbsqdromhjeb;
vybszbhhbds(josvybsqavsrtsanvvjom-jo)syrzbsrzbisvrsvybsurohvbisqhsjtsvr
qslnqc;sqoesqsfrqv,syniijbedcsgnhyjomsrttstirusvyjhshabobsrtsqavjzjvc,
jhsqfrnvsmjzjomsayqhbsvrspyqdbhsjosvybsejhvqoab.sVybsyqigrrohsqoe
dqoabhsdjbsdbzbddbestrisnhb;svyibbsrqihubosqibsknhvshbvvjomsvybsuqhvsjo
jvhsyrdb;spyjdbstirusqshneebosirddsrtsvybshbq,svybsdjvvdbsaiqtvshvqoeh
yqdt-bibavsrnvsrtsvybspqvbi,sdj bsqsibqijomsyrihb.sTirusvybshyjg,svyb
hur bsrtsvybsvriubovhsrtsvybsfrjdjomspyqdbsjhsmrjomsngsdj bsvybshur b
rzbisqszjddqmbsrtshujvyjbh;sqoesvrspjoepqie,sqsfdqa sadrne,sijhjomsng
pjvysbqiobhvsrtshlnqddhsqoesiqjoh,shbbuhsvrslnja bosvybsqavjzjvcsrtsvyb
bxajvbeshbqubo.


AYQGVBIs57.sRtsPyqdbhsjosGqjov;sjosVbbvy;sjosPrre;sjosHybbv-Jiro;sjo
Hvrob;sjosUrnovqjoh;sjosHvqih.

RosVrpbi-yjdd,sqhscrnsmrserposvrsvybsDroerosera h,scrnsuqcsyqzbshbbosq
aijggdbesfbmmqis(ris_ bembi_,sqhsvybshqjdrihshqc)syrdejomsqsgqjovbe
frqiesfbtribsyju,sibgibhbovjomsvybsviqmjashabobsjospyjaysybsdrhvsyjh
dbm.sVybibsqibsvyibbspyqdbhsqoesvyibbsfrqvh;sqoesrobsrtsvybsfrqvh
(gibhnubesvrsarovqjosvybsujhhjomsdbmsjosqddsjvhsrijmjoqdsjovbmijvc)sjh
fbjomsainoaybesfcsvybskqphsrtsvybstriburhvspyqdb.sQocsvjubsvybhbsvbo
cbqih,svybcsvbddsub,syqhsvyqvsuqosybdesngsvyqvsgjavnib,sqoesbxyjfjvbe
vyqvshvnugsvrsqosjoaibendrnhspride.sFnvsvybsvjubsrtsyjhsknhvjtjaqvjro
yqhsorpsarub.sYjhsvyibbspyqdbhsqibsqhsmrrespyqdbhsqhspbibsbzbi
gnfdjhybesjosPqggjom,sqvsqocsiqvb;sqoesyjhshvnugsqhsnolnbhvjroqfdbsq
hvnugsqhsqocscrnspjddstjoesjosvybspbhvbiosadbqijomh.sFnv,svyrnmystri
bzbisurnovbesrosvyqvshvnug,sobzbisqshvnug-hgbbayserbhsvybsgrrispyqdbuqo
uq b;sfnv,spjvyserpoaqhvsbcbh,shvqoehsinbtnddcsarovbugdqvjomsyjhsrpo
qugnvqvjro.

VyirnmyrnvsvybsGqajtja,sqoesqdhrsjosOqovna bv,sqoesObpsFbetrie,sqoesHqm
Yqifri,scrnspjddsarubsqairhhsdjzbdcsh bvaybhsrtspyqdbhsqoe
pyqdjom-habobh,smiqzbosfcsvybstjhybiubosvybuhbdzbhsrosHgbiu
Pyqdb-vbbvy,srisdqejbh’sfnh hspirnmyvsrnvsrtsvybsIjmyvsPyqdb-frob,sqoe
rvybisdj bsh ijuhyqoebisqivjadbh,sqhsvybspyqdbubosaqddsvybsonubirnh
djvvdbsjombojrnhsarovijzqoabhsvybcsbdqfriqvbdcsaqizbsrnvsrtsvybsirnmy
uqvbijqd,sjosvybjisyrnihsrtsrabqosdbjhnib.sHrubsrtsvybusyqzbsdjvvdb
frxbhsrtsebovjhvjaqd-drr jomsjugdbubovh,shgbajqddcsjovboebestrisvyb
h ijuhyqoebijomsfnhjobhh.sFnv,sjosmbobiqd,svybcsvrjdspjvysvybji
kqa - ojzbhsqdrob;sqoe,spjvysvyqvsqdurhvsruojgrvbovsvrrdsrtsvybshqjdri,
vybcspjddsvnioscrnsrnvsqocvyjomscrnsgdbqhb,sjosvybspqcsrtsqsuqijobi’h
tqoac.

DromsbxjdbstirusAyijhvboerusqoesajzjdjwqvjrosjobzjvqfdcsibhvribhsqsuqo
vrsvyqvsaroejvjrosjospyjaysMresgdqabesyju,s_j.b._spyqvsjhsaqddbe
hqzqmbic.sCrnisvinbspyqdb-ynovbisjhsqhsunaysqshqzqmbsqhsqosJirlnrjh.sJ
uchbdtsqusqshqzqmb,srpojomsorsqddbmjqoabsfnvsvrsvybs jomsrtsvyb
Aqoojfqdh;sqoesibqecsqvsqocsurubovsvrsibfbdsqmqjohvsyju.

Orp,srobsrtsvybsgbandjqisayqiqavbijhvjahsrtsvybshqzqmbsjosyjhserubhvja
yrnih,sjhsyjhsproebitndsgqvjboabsrtsjoenhvic.sQosqoajbovsYqpqjjqo
pqi-adnfsrishgbqi-gqeedb,sjosjvhstnddsundvjgdjajvcsqoesbdqfriqvjrosrt
aqizjom,sjhsqhsmibqvsqsvirgycsrtsynuqosgbihbzbiqoabsqhsqsDqvjosdbxjaro.
Tri,spjvysfnvsqsfjvsrtsfir boshbq-hybddsrisqshyqi ’hsvrrvy,svyqv
ujiqandrnhsjovijaqacsrtsprrebosobv-pri syqhsfbbosqayjbzbe;sqoesjvsyqh
arhvshvbqecscbqihsrtshvbqecsqggdjaqvjro.

QhspjvysvybsYqpqjjqoshqzqmb,shrspjvysvybspyjvbshqjdri-hqzqmb.sPjvysvyb
hqubsuqizbddrnhsgqvjboab,sqoespjvysvybshqubshjomdbshyqi ’hsvrrvy,srt
yjhsrobsgrriskqa - ojtb,sybspjddsaqizbscrnsqsfjvsrtsfrobshandgvnib,sorv
lnjvbsqhspri uqodj b,sfnvsqhsadrhbsgqa besjosjvhsuqwjobhhsrtsebhjmo,sqh
vybsMibb shqzqmb,sQayjddbh’hshyjbde;sqoestnddsrtsfqifqijashgjijvsqoe
hnmmbhvjzbobhh,sqhsvybsgijovhsrtsvyqvstjobsrdesEnvayshqzqmb,sQdfbiv
Enibi.

Prrebospyqdbh,srispyqdbhsanvsjosgirtjdbsrnvsrtsvybshuqddseqi shdqfhsrt
vybsorfdbsHrnvysHbqspqi-prre,sqibstiblnbovdcsubvspjvysjosvyb
tribaqhvdbhsrtsQubijaqospyqdbih.sHrubsrtsvybusqibserobspjvysunay
qaaniqac.

Qvshrubsrdesmqfdb-irrtbesarnovicsyrnhbhscrnspjddshbbsfiqhhspyqdbhsynom
fcsvybsvqjdstris ora bihsvrsvybsirqe-hjebserri.sPybosvybsgrivbisjh
hdbbgc,svybsqozjd-ybqebespyqdbsprndesfbsfbhv.sFnvsvybhbs ora jomspyqdbh
qibshbderusibuqi qfdbsqhstqjvytndsbhhqch.sRosvybshgjibhsrtshrub
rde-tqhyjrobesayniaybhscrnspjddshbbshybbv-jirospyqdbhsgdqabesvybibstri
pbqvybi-ara h;sfnvsvybcsqibshrsbdbzqvbe,sqoesfbhjebhsvyqvsqibsvrsqdd
jovbovhsqoesgnigrhbhshrsdqfbddbespjvys“_Yqoehsrtt!_”scrnsaqoorvsbxqujob
vybusadrhbdcsbornmysvrsebajebsngrosvybjisubijv.

Josfroc,sijffcsibmjrohsrtsvybsbqivy,spybibsqvsvybsfqhbsrtsyjmysfir bo
adjtthsuqhhbhsrtsira sdjbshvibposjostqovqhvjasmirngjomhsngrosvybsgdqjo,
crnspjddsrtvbosejharzbisjuqmbhsqhsrtsvybsgbvijtjbestriuhsrtsvyb
Dbzjqvyqosgqivdcsubimbesjosmiqhh,spyjaysrtsqspjoecseqcsfibq hsqmqjohv
vybusjosqshnitsrtsmibboshnimbh.

Vybo,sqmqjo,sjosurnovqjornhsarnovijbhspybibsvybsviqzbddbisjh
arovjonqddcsmjiedbesfcsqugyjvybqvijaqdsybjmyvh;sybibsqoesvybibstiru
hrubsdna csgrjovsrtszjbpscrnspjddsaqvaysgqhhjomsmdjughbhsrtsvyb
girtjdbhsrtspyqdbhsebtjobesqdromsvybsnoendqvjomsijembh.sFnvscrnsunhvsfb
qsvyrirnmyspyqdbuqo,svrshbbsvybhbshjmyvh;sqoesorvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvsjtscrn
pjhysvrsibvniosvrshnaysqshjmyvsqmqjo,scrnsunhvsfbshnibsqoesvq bsvyb
bxqavsjovbihbavjomsdqvjvnebsqoesdromjvnebsrtscrnistjihvshvqoe-grjov,
bdhbshrsayqoab-dj bsqibshnaysrfhbizqvjrohsrtsvybsyjddh,svyqvscrni
gibajhb,sgibzjrnhshvqoe-grjovsprndesiblnjibsqsdqfrijrnhsib-ejharzbic;
dj bsvybsHrdruqsJhdqoeh,spyjayshvjddsibuqjosjoarmojvq,svyrnmysroab
yjmy-inttbesUboeqooqsviresvybusqoesrdesTjmnbiqsayirojadbesvybu.

Orispybosbxgqoejomdcsdjtvbesfcscrnishnfkbav,saqoscrnstqjdsvrsviqabsrnv
mibqvspyqdbhsjosvybshvqiicsybqzboh,sqoesfrqvhsjosgnihnjvsrtsvybu;sqh
pybosdromstjddbespjvysvyrnmyvhsrtspqisvybsBqhvbiosoqvjrohshqpsqiujbh
dra besjosfqvvdbsquromsvybsadrneh.sVynhsqvsvybsOrivysyqzbsJsayqhbe
DbzjqvyqosirnoesqoesirnoesvybsGrdbspjvysvybsibzrdnvjrohsrtsvybsfijmyv
grjovhsvyqvstjihvsebtjobesyjusvrsub.sQoesfbobqvysvybsbttndmbov
Qovqiavjash jbhsJsyqzbsfrqiebesvybsQimr-Oqzjh,sqoeskrjobesvybsayqhb
qmqjohvsvybshvqiicsAbvnhstqisfbcroesvybsnvurhvshvibvaysrtsYceinhsqoe
vybsTdcjomsTjhy.

Pjvysqstijmqvb’hsqoayrihstrisucsfijedb-fjvvhsqoestqhabhsrtsyqigrrohstri
hgnih,sprndesJsarndesurnovsvyqvspyqdbsqoesdbqgsvybsvrgurhvsh jbh,svr
hbbspybvybisvybstqfdbesybqzbohspjvysqddsvybjisarnovdbhhsvbovhsibqddc
djbsboaqugbesfbcroesucsurivqdshjmyv!


AYQGVBIs58.sFijv.

Hvbbijomsorivy-bqhvpqiestirusvybsAirwbvvh,spbstbddsjospjvyszqhvsubqerph
rtsfijv,svybsujonvb,scbddrpshnfhvqoab,sngrospyjaysvybsIjmyvsPyqdb
dqimbdcstbbeh.sTrisdbqmnbhsqoesdbqmnbhsjvsnoendqvbesirnoesnh,shrsvyqv
pbshbbubesvrsfbshqjdjomsvyirnmysfrnoedbhhstjbdehsrtsijgbsqoesmrdebo
pybqv.

Rosvybshbaroeseqc,sonufbihsrtsIjmyvsPyqdbhspbibshbbo,spyr,shbanibstiru
vybsqvvqa srtsqsHgbiusPyqdbisdj bsvybsGblnre,spjvysrgboskqphshdnmmjhydc
hpqusvyirnmysvybsfijv,spyjay,sqeybijomsvrsvybstijomjomstjfibhsrtsvyqv
proeirnhsZbobvjqosfdjoesjosvybjisurnvyh,spqhsjosvyqvsuqoobishbgqiqvbe
tirusvybspqvbisvyqvsbhaqgbesqvsvybsdjg.

Qhsuriojomsurpbih,spyrshjebsfcshjebshdrpdcsqoeshbbvyjomdcsqezqoabsvybji
hacvybhsvyirnmysvybsdromspbvsmiqhhsrtsuqihycsubqeh;sbzboshrsvybhb
urohvbihshpqu,suq jomsqshviqomb,smiqhhc,sanvvjomshrnoe;sqoesdbqzjom
fbyjoesvybusboedbhhshpqvyhsrtsfdnbsngrosvybscbddrpshbq.*

*Vyqvsgqivsrtsvybshbqs orposquromspyqdbubosqhsvybs“FiqwjdsFqo h”serbh
orvsfbqisvyqvsoqubsqhsvybsFqo hsrtsObptrnoedqoeser,sfbaqnhbsrtsvybib
fbjomshyqddrphsqoeshrnoejomhsvybib,sfnvsfbaqnhbsrtsvyjhsibuqi qfdb
ubqerp-dj bsqggbqiqoab,saqnhbesfcsvybszqhvseijtvhsrtsfijvsarovjonqddc
tdrqvjomsjosvyrhbsdqvjvnebh,spybibsvybsIjmyvsPyqdbsjhsrtvbosayqhbe.

Fnvsjvspqhsrodcsvybshrnoesvybcsuqebsqhsvybcsgqivbesvybsfijvspyjaysqv
qddsibujoebesrobsrtsurpbih.sHbbostirusvybsuqhv-ybqeh,sbhgbajqddcspybo
vybcsgqnhbesqoespbibshvqvjroqicstrisqspyjdb,svybjiszqhvsfdqa striuh
drr besuribsdj bsdjtbdbhhsuqhhbhsrtsira svyqosqocvyjomsbdhb.sQoesqhsjo
vybsmibqvsynovjomsarnovijbhsrtsJoejq,svybshviqombisqvsqsejhvqoabspjdd
hrubvjubhsgqhhsrosvybsgdqjohsibanufbovsbdbgyqovhspjvyrnvs orpjomsvybu
vrsfbshnay,svq jomsvybustrisfqib,sfdqa bobesbdbzqvjrohsrtsvybshrjd;
bzboshr,srtvbo,spjvysyju,spyrstrisvybstjihvsvjubsfbyrdehsvyjhshgbajbh
rtsvybsdbzjqvyqohsrtsvybshbq.sQoesbzbospybosibarmojhbesqvsdqhv,svybji
juubohbsuqmojvnebsiboebihsjvszbicsyqiesibqddcsvrsfbdjbzbsvyqvshnay
fnd csuqhhbhsrtsrzbimirpvysaqosgrhhjfdcsfbsjohvjoav,sjosqddsgqivh,spjvy
vybshqubshrivsrtsdjtbsvyqvsdjzbhsjosqsermsrisqsyrihb.

Joebbe,sjosrvybisibhgbavh,scrnsaqosyqiedcsibmqiesqocsaibqvnibhsrtsvyb
ebbgspjvysvybshqubstbbdjomhsvyqvscrnsersvyrhbsrtsvybshyrib.sTrisvyrnmy
hrubsrdesoqvniqdjhvhsyqzbsuqjovqjobesvyqvsqddsaibqvnibhsrtsvybsdqoesqib
rtsvybjis joesjosvybshbq;sqoesvyrnmysvq jomsqsfirqesmbobiqdszjbpsrtsvyb
vyjom,svyjhsuqcszbicspbddsfb;scbvsarujomsvrshgbajqdvjbh,spybib,stri
bxqugdb,serbhsvybsrabqostniojhysqocstjhysvyqvsjosejhgrhjvjrosqohpbihsvr
vybshqmqajrnhs joeobhhsrtsvybserm?sVybsqaanihbeshyqi sqdrobsaqosjosqoc
mbobijasibhgbavsfbshqjesvrsfbqisarugqiqvjzbsqoqdrmcsvrsyju.

Fnvsvyrnmy,svrsdqoehubosjosmbobiqd,svybsoqvjzbsjoyqfjvqovhsrtsvybshbqh
yqzbsbzbisfbbosibmqiebespjvysburvjrohsnohgbq qfdcsnohrajqdsqoe
ibgbddjom;svyrnmyspbs orpsvybshbqsvrsfbsqosbzbidqhvjomsvbiiqsjoarmojvq,
hrsvyqvsArdnufnhshqjdbesrzbisonufbidbhhsno orpospridehsvrsejharzbisyjh
robshngbitjajqdspbhvbiosrob;svyrnmy,sfcszqhvsreeh,svybsurhvsvbiijtjasrt
qddsurivqdsejhqhvbihsyqzbsjuuburijqddcsqoesjoejhaijujoqvbdcsfbtqddbo
vbohsqoesynoeibehsrtsvyrnhqoehsrtsvyrhbspyrsyqzbsmrobsngrosvybspqvbih;
vyrnmysfnvsqsurubov’hsarohjebiqvjrospjddsvbqay,svyqvsyrpbzbisfqfcsuqo
uqcsfiqmsrtsyjhshajboabsqoesh jdd,sqoesyrpbzbisunay,sjosqstdqvvbijom
tnvnib,svyqvshajboabsqoesh jddsuqcsqnmubov;scbvstrisbzbisqoestrisbzbi,
vrsvybsaiqa srtserru,svybshbqspjddsjohndvsqoesuniebisyju,sqoesgndzbijwb
vybshvqvbdjbhv,shvjttbhvstijmqvbsybsaqosuq b;sobzbivybdbhh,sfcsvyb
arovjonqdsibgbvjvjrosrtsvybhbszbicsjugibhhjroh,suqosyqhsdrhvsvyqvshbohb
rtsvybstnddsqptndobhhsrtsvybshbqspyjaysqfrijmjoqddcsfbdromhsvrsjv.

Vybstjihvsfrqvspbsibqesrt,stdrqvbesrosqosrabqo,svyqvspjvysGrivnmnbhb
zbombqoabsyqespybdubesqspyrdbspridespjvyrnvsdbqzjomshrsunaysqhsqspjerp.
Vyqvshqubsrabqosirddhsorp;svyqvshqubsrabqosebhvircbesvybspiba beshyjgh
rtsdqhvscbqi.sCbq,strrdjhysurivqdh,sOrqy’hstdrresjhsorvscbvshnfhjebe;
vprsvyjiehsrtsvybstqjispridesjvscbvsarzbih.

Pybibjosejttbisvybshbqsqoesvybsdqoe,svyqvsqsujiqadbsngrosrobsjhsorvsq
ujiqadbsngrosvybsrvybi?sGibvbioqvniqdsvbiirihsibhvbesngrosvybsYbfibph,
pybosnoebisvybstbbvsrts riqysqoesyjhsarugqocsvybsdjzbsmirnoesrgbobesqoe
hpqddrpbesvybusngstrisbzbi;scbvsorvsqsurebioshnosbzbishbvh,sfnvsjo
gibajhbdcsvybshqubsuqoobisvybsdjzbshbqshpqddrphsngshyjghsqoesaibph.

Fnvsorvsrodcsjhsvybshbqshnaysqstrbsvrsuqospyrsjhsqosqdjbosvrsjv,sfnvsjv
jhsqdhrsqstjboesvrsjvhsrposrtt-hgijom;sprihbsvyqosvybsGbihjqosyrhvspyr
uniebibesyjhsrposmnbhvh;shgqijomsorvsvybsaibqvnibhspyjaysjvhbdtsyqvy
hgqpobe.sDj bsqshqzqmbsvjmibhhsvyqvsvrhhjomsjosvybsknomdbsrzbidqchsybi
rposanfh,shrsvybshbqseqhybhsbzbosvybsujmyvjbhvspyqdbhsqmqjohvsvyb
ira h,sqoesdbqzbhsvybusvybibshjebsfcshjebspjvysvybshgdjvspiba hsrt
hyjgh.sOrsubiac,sorsgrpbisfnvsjvhsrposarovirdhsjv.sGqovjomsqoeshorivjom
dj bsqsuqesfqvvdbshvbbesvyqvsyqhsdrhvsjvhsijebi,svybsuqhvbidbhhsrabqo
rzbiinohsvybsmdrfb.

Arohjebisvybshnfvdbobhhsrtsvybshbq;syrpsjvhsurhvseibqebesaibqvnibh
mdjebsnoebispqvbi,snoqggqibovstrisvybsurhvsgqiv,sqoesvibqaybirnhdc
yjeebosfbobqvysvybsdrzbdjbhvsvjovhsrtsqwnib.sArohjebisqdhrsvybsebzjdjhy
fijddjqoabsqoesfbqnvcsrtsuqocsrtsjvhsurhvsiburihbdbhhsvijfbh,sqhsvyb
eqjovcsbufbddjhybeshyqgbsrtsuqocshgbajbhsrtshyqi h.sArohjebi,sroab
urib,svybsnojzbihqdsaqoojfqdjhusrtsvybshbq;sqddspyrhbsaibqvnibhsgibc
ngrosbqaysrvybi,saqiicjomsrosbvbioqdspqishjoabsvybspridesfbmqo.

Arohjebisqddsvyjh;sqoesvybosvniosvrsvyjhsmibbo,smbovdb,sqoesurhvserajdb
bqivy;sarohjebisvybusfrvy,svybshbqsqoesvybsdqoe;sqoeserscrnsorvstjoesq
hviqombsqoqdrmcsvrshrubvyjomsjoscrnihbdt?sTrisqhsvyjhsqggqddjomsrabqo
hniirnoehsvybszbieqovsdqoe,shrsjosvybshrndsrtsuqosvybibsdjbhsrob
johndqisVqyjvj,stnddsrtsgbqabsqoeskrc,sfnvsboarugqhhbesfcsqddsvyb
yriirihsrtsvybsyqdts orposdjtb.sMres bbgsvybb!sGnhysorvsrttstirusvyqv
jhdb,svyrnsaqohvsobzbisibvnio!


AYQGVBIs59.sHlnje.

Hdrpdcspqejomsvyirnmysvybsubqerphsrtsfijv,svybsGblnreshvjddsybdesrosybi
pqcsorivy-bqhvpqiesvrpqiehsvybsjhdqoesrtsKqzq;sqsmbovdbsqjisjugbddjom
ybis bbd,shrsvyqvsjosvybshniirnoejomshbibojvcsybisvyibbsvqddsvqgbijom
uqhvhsujdedcspqzbesvrsvyqvsdqomnjesfibbwb,sqhsvyibbsujdesgqduhsrosq
gdqjo.sQoeshvjdd,sqvspjebsjovbizqdhsjosvybshjdzbicsojmyv,svybsdrobdc,
qddnijomskbvsprndesfbshbbo.

Fnvsrobsviqohgqibovsfdnbsuriojom,spybosqshvjddobhhsqdurhvsgibvbioqvniqd
hgibqesrzbisvybshbq,syrpbzbisnoqvvboebespjvysqocshvqmoqovsaqdu;spybo
vybsdromsfniojhybeshno-mdqebsrosvybspqvbihshbbubesqsmrdebostjombisdqje
qairhhsvybu,sbokrjojomshrubshbaibac;spybosvybshdjggbibespqzbhspyjhgbibe
vrmbvybisqhsvybcshrtvdcsiqosro;sjosvyjhsgirtrnoesynhysrtsvybszjhjfdb
hgybibsqshviqombshgbavibspqhshbbosfcsEqmmrrstirusvybsuqjo-uqhv-ybqe.

Josvybsejhvqoab,sqsmibqvspyjvbsuqhhsdqwjdcsirhb,sqoesijhjomsyjmybisqoe
yjmybi,sqoesejhbovqomdjomsjvhbdtstirusvybsqwnib,sqvsdqhvsmdbqubesfbtrib
rnisgirpsdj bsqshorp-hdjeb,sobpshdjestirusvybsyjddh.sVynhsmdjhvbojom
trisqsurubov,sqhshdrpdcsjvshnfhjebe,sqoeshqo .sVybosroabsuribsqirhb,
qoeshjdbovdcsmdbqube.sJvshbbubesorvsqspyqdb;sqoescbvsjhsvyjhsUrfcsEja ?
vyrnmyvsEqmmrr.sQmqjosvybsgyqovruspbovserpo,sfnvsrosib-qggbqijomsroab
urib,spjvysqshvjdbvvr-dj bsaicsvyqvshvqivdbesbzbicsuqostirusyjhsore,
vybsobmirscbddbesrnv—“Vybib!svybibsqmqjo!svybibshybsfibqaybh!sijmyv
qybqe!sVybsPyjvbsPyqdb,svybsPyjvbsPyqdb!”

Ngrosvyjh,svybshbqubosinhybesvrsvybscqie-qiuh,sqhsjoshpqiujom-vjubsvyb
fbbhsinhysvrsvybsfrnmyh.sFqib-ybqebesjosvybshndvicshno,sQyqfshvrresro
vybsfrphgijv,sqoespjvysrobsyqoesgnhybestqisfbyjoesjosibqejobhhsvrspqzb
yjhsriebihsvrsvybsybduhuqo,saqhvsyjhsbqmbismdqoabsjosvybsejibavjro
joejaqvbesqdrtvsfcsvybsrnvhvibvaybesurvjrodbhhsqiusrtsEqmmrr.

Pybvybisvybstdjvvjomsqvvboeqoabsrtsvybsrobshvjddsqoeshrdjvqicskbvsyqe
miqenqddcspri besngrosQyqf,shrsvyqvsybspqhsorpsgibgqibesvrsaroobavsvyb
jebqhsrtsujdeobhhsqoesibgrhbspjvysvybstjihvshjmyvsrtsvybsgqivjandqi
pyqdbsybsgnihnbe;syrpbzbisvyjhspqh,srispybvybisyjhsbqmbiobhhsfbviqcbe
yju;spyjaybzbispqcsjvsujmyvsyqzbsfbbo,sorshrrobisejesybsejhvjoavdc
gbiabjzbsvybspyjvbsuqhh,svyqospjvysqslnja sjovbohjvcsybsjohvqovdcsmqzb
riebihstrisdrpbijom.

Vybstrnisfrqvhspbibshrrosrosvybspqvbi;sQyqf’hsjosqezqoab,sqoesqdd
hpjtvdcsgnddjomsvrpqiehsvybjisgibc.sHrrosjvspbovserpo,sqoespyjdb,spjvy
rqihshnhgboebe,spbspbibsqpqjvjomsjvhsibqggbqiqoab,sdr!sjosvybshqubshgrv
pybibsjvshqo ,sroabsuribsjvshdrpdcsirhb.sQdurhvstrimbvvjomstrisvyb
urubovsqddsvyrnmyvhsrtsUrfcsEja ,spbsorpsmqwbesqvsvybsurhvsproeirnh
gyboruborospyjaysvybshbaibvshbqhsyqzbsyjvybivrsibzbqdbesvrsuqo joe.sQ
zqhvsgndgcsuqhh,stnidromhsjosdbomvysqoesfibqevy,srtsqsmdqoajom
aibqu-ardrni,sdqcstdrqvjomsrosvybspqvbi,sjoonubiqfdbsdromsqiuh
iqejqvjomstirusjvhsabovib,sqoesanidjomsqoesvpjhvjomsdj bsqsobhvsrt
qoqaroeqh,sqhsjtsfdjoedcsvrsadnvaysqvsqocsyqgdbhhsrfkbavspjvyjosibqay.
Orsgbiabgvjfdbstqabsristirovsejesjvsyqzb;sorsaroabjzqfdbsvr bosrt
bjvybishbohqvjrosrisjohvjoav;sfnvsnoendqvbesvybibsrosvybsfjddrph,sqo
nobqivydc,striudbhh,sayqoab-dj bsqggqijvjrosrtsdjtb.

Qhspjvysqsdrpshna jomshrnoesjvshdrpdcsejhqggbqibesqmqjo,sHvqifna shvjdd
mqwjomsqvsvybsqmjvqvbespqvbihspybibsjvsyqeshno ,spjvysqspjdeszrjab
bxadqjube—“QdurhvsiqvybisyqesJshbbosUrfcsEja sqoestrnmyvsyju,svyqosvr
yqzbshbbosvybb,svyrnspyjvbsmyrhv!”

“Pyqvspqhsjv,sHji?”shqjesTdqh .

“Vybsmibqvsdjzbshlnje,spyjay,svybcshqc,stbpspyqdb-hyjghsbzbisfbybde,
qoesibvniobesvrsvybjisgrivhsvrsvbddsrtsjv.”

FnvsQyqfshqjesorvyjom;svniojomsyjhsfrqv,sybshqjdbesfqa svrsvybszbhhbd;
vybsibhvsqhshjdbovdcstrddrpjom.

Pyqvbzbishngbihvjvjrohsvybshgbiuspyqdbubosjosmbobiqdsyqzbsaroobavbe
pjvysvybshjmyvsrtsvyjhsrfkbav,sabivqjosjvsjh,svyqvsqsmdjughbsrtsjv
fbjomshrszbicsnonhnqd,svyqvsajianuhvqoabsyqhsmrobstqisvrsjozbhvsjvspjvy
grivbovrnhobhh.sHrsiqibdcsjhsjvsfbybde,svyqvsvyrnmysrobsqoesqddsrtsvybu
ebadqibsjvsvrsfbsvybsdqimbhvsqojuqvbesvyjomsjosvybsrabqo,scbvszbicstbp
rtsvybusyqzbsqocsfnvsvybsurhvszqmnbsjebqhsaroabiojomsjvhsvinbsoqvnib
qoestriu;sorvpjvyhvqoejom,svybcsfbdjbzbsjvsvrstniojhysvrsvybshgbiu
pyqdbsyjhsrodcstrre.sTrisvyrnmysrvybishgbajbhsrtspyqdbhstjoesvybjistrre
qfrzbspqvbi,sqoesuqcsfbshbbosfcsuqosjosvybsqavsrtstbbejom,svyb
hgbiuqabvjspyqdbsrfvqjohsyjhspyrdbstrresjosno orposwrobhsfbdrpsvyb
hnitqab;sqoesrodcsfcsjotbiboabsjhsjvsvyqvsqocsrobsaqosvbddsrtspyqv,
gibajhbdc,svyqvstrresarohjhvh.sQvsvjubh,spybosadrhbdcsgnihnbe,sybspjdd
ejhmrimbspyqvsqibshnggrhbesvrsfbsvybsebvqaybesqiuhsrtsvybshlnje;shrub
rtsvybusvynhsbxyjfjvbesbxabbejomsvpbovcsqoesvyjivcstbbvsjosdbomvy.sVybc
tqoacsvyqvsvybsurohvbisvrspyjaysvybhbsqiuhsfbdrombesriejoqijdcsadjomh
fcsvybusvrsvybsfbesrtsvybsrabqo;sqoesvyqvsvybshgbiuspyqdb,snodj bsrvybi
hgbajbh,sjhshnggdjbespjvysvbbvysjosriebisvrsqvvqa sqoesvbqisjv.

Vybibshbbuhshrubsmirnoesvrsjuqmjobsvyqvsvybsmibqvs iq bosrtsFjhyrg
GrovrggreqosuqcsndvjuqvbdcsibhrdzbsjvhbdtsjovrsHlnje.sVybsuqoobisjo
pyjaysvybsFjhyrgsebhaijfbhsjv,sqhsqdvbioqvbdcsijhjomsqoeshjo jom,spjvy
hrubsrvybisgqivjandqihsybsoqiiqvbh,sjosqddsvyjhsvybsvprsariibhgroe.sFnv
unaysqfqvbubovsjhsobabhhqicspjvysibhgbavsvrsvybsjoaibejfdbsfnd syb
qhhjmohsjv.

Fcshrubsoqvniqdjhvhspyrsyqzbszqmnbdcsybqiesinurihsrtsvybsuchvbijrnh
aibqvnib,sybibshgr bosrt,sjvsjhsjoadnebesquromsvybsadqhhsrt
anvvdb-tjhy,svrspyjay,sjoebbe,sjosabivqjosbxvbioqdsibhgbavhsjvsprnde
hbbusvrsfbdrom,sfnvsrodcsqhsvybsQoq srtsvybsvijfb.


AYQGVBIs60.sVybsDjob.

Pjvysibtbiboabsvrsvybspyqdjomshabobshyrivdcsvrsfbsebhaijfbe,sqhspbddsqh
trisvybsfbvvbisnoebihvqoejomsrtsqddshjujdqishabobhsbdhbpybibsgibhbovbe,
Jsyqzbsybibsvrshgbq srtsvybsuqmjaqd,shrubvjubhsyriijfdbspyqdb-djob.

Vybsdjobsrijmjoqddcsnhbesjosvybstjhybicspqhsrtsvybsfbhvsybug,shdjmyvdc
zqgribespjvysvqi,sorvsjugibmoqvbespjvysjv,sqhsjosvybsaqhbsrtsriejoqic
irgbh;strispyjdbsvqi,sqhsriejoqijdcsnhbe,suq bhsvybsybugsuribsgdjqfdb
vrsvybsirgb-uq bi,sqoesqdhrsiboebihsvybsirgbsjvhbdtsuribsarozbojbovsvr
vybshqjdristrisaruuroshyjgsnhb;scbv,sorvsrodcsprndesvybsriejoqic
lnqovjvcsvrrsunayshvjttbosvybspyqdb-djobstrisvybsadrhbsarjdjomsvrspyjay
jvsunhvsfbshnfkbavbe;sfnvsqhsurhvshbqubosqibsfbmjoojomsvrsdbqio,svqisjo
mbobiqdsfcsorsubqohsqeehsvrsvybsirgb’hseniqfjdjvcsrishvibomvy,syrpbzbi
unaysjvsuqcsmjzbsjvsarugqavobhhsqoesmdrhh.

RtsdqvbscbqihsvybsUqojddqsirgbsyqhsjosvybsQubijaqostjhybicsqdurhv
bovjibdcshngbihbebesybugsqhsqsuqvbijqdstrispyqdb-djobh;stri,svyrnmysorv
hrseniqfdbsqhsybug,sjvsjhshvirombi,sqoestqisuribshrtvsqoesbdqhvja;sqoe
Jspjddsqees(hjoabsvybibsjhsqosæhvybvjahsjosqddsvyjomh),sjhsunaysurib
yqoehrubsqoesfbarujomsvrsvybsfrqv,svyqosybug.sYbugsjhsqsenh c,seqi 
tbddrp,sqshrivsrtsJoejqo;sfnvsUqojddqsjhsqhsqsmrdebo-yqjibesAjiaqhhjqo
vrsfbyrde.

Vybspyqdb-djobsjhsrodcsvpr-vyjiehsrtsqosjoaysjosvyja obhh.sQvstjihv
hjmyv,scrnsprndesorvsvyjo sjvshrshviromsqhsjvsibqddcsjh.sFcsbxgbijubov
jvhsrobsqoestjtvcscqiohspjddsbqayshnhgboesqspbjmyvsrtsrobsynoeibesqoe
vpbovcsgrnoeh;shrsvyqvsvybspyrdbsirgbspjddsfbqisqshviqjosobqidcsblnqd
vrsvyibbsvroh.sJosdbomvy,svybsaruuroshgbiuspyqdb-djobsubqhnibh
hrubvyjomsrzbisvprsynoeibestqvyruh.sVrpqiehsvybshvbiosrtsvybsfrqvsjvsjh
hgjiqddcsarjdbesqpqcsjosvybsvnf,sorvsdj bsvybspriu-gjgbsrtsqshvjdd
vyrnmy,sfnvshrsqhsvrstriusrobsirnoe,saybbhb-hyqgbesuqhhsrtsebohbdc
fbeebes“hybqzbh,”srisdqcbihsrtsaroabovijashgjiqdjwqvjroh,spjvyrnvsqoc
yrddrpsfnvsvybs“ybqiv,”srisujonvbszbivjaqdsvnfbstriubesqvsvybsqxjhsrt
vybsaybbhb.sQhsvybsdbqhvsvqomdbsris jo sjosvybsarjdjomsprnde,sjo
inoojomsrnv,sjotqddjfdcsvq bshrubfrec’hsqiu,sdbm,srisbovjibsfrecsrtt,
vybsnvurhvsgibaqnvjrosjhsnhbesjoshvrpjomsvybsdjobsjosjvhsvnf.sHrub
yqigrrobbihspjddsarohnubsqdurhvsqosbovjibsuriojomsjosvyjhsfnhjobhh,
aqiicjomsvybsdjobsyjmysqdrtvsqoesvybosibbzjomsjvserpopqiehsvyirnmysq
fdra svrpqiehsvybsvnf,shrsqhsjosvybsqavsrtsarjdjomsvrstibbsjvstirusqdd
grhhjfdbspijo dbhsqoesvpjhvh.

JosvybsBomdjhysfrqvhsvprsvnfhsqibsnhbesjohvbqesrtsrob;svybshqubsdjob
fbjomsarovjonrnhdcsarjdbesjosfrvysvnfh.sVybibsjhshrubsqezqovqmbsjo
vyjh;sfbaqnhbsvybhbsvpjo-vnfhsfbjomshrshuqddsvybcstjvsuribsibqejdcsjovr
vybsfrqv,sqoesersorvshviqjosjvshrsunay;spybibqh,svybsQubijaqosvnf,
obqidcsvyibbstbbvsjosejqubvbisqoesrtsgirgrivjroqvbsebgvy,suq bhsq
iqvybisfnd cstibjmyvstrisqsaiqtvspyrhbsgdqo hsqibsfnvsrobsyqdt-joaysjo
vyja obhh;strisvybsfrvvrusrtsvybspyqdb-frqvsjhsdj bsaijvjaqdsjab,spyjay
pjddsfbqisngsqsarohjebiqfdbsejhvijfnvbespbjmyv,sfnvsorvszbicsunaysrtsq
aroaboviqvbesrob.sPybosvybsgqjovbesaqozqhsarzbisjhsadqggbesrosvyb
Qubijaqosdjob-vnf,svybsfrqvsdrr hsqhsjtsjvspbibsgnddjomsrttspjvysq
girejmjrnhsmibqvspbeejom-aq bsvrsgibhbovsvrsvybspyqdbh.

Frvysboehsrtsvybsdjobsqibsbxgrhbe;svybsdrpbisboesvbiujoqvjomsjosqo
bcb-hgdjabsrisdrrgsarujomsngstirusvybsfrvvrusqmqjohvsvybshjebsrtsvyb
vnf,sqoesyqomjomsrzbisjvhsbembsarugdbvbdcsejhbomqmbestirusbzbicvyjom.
Vyjhsqiiqombubovsrtsvybsdrpbisboesjhsobabhhqicsrosvprsqaarnovh.sTjihv:
Josriebisvrstqajdjvqvbsvybstqhvbojomsvrsjvsrtsqosqeejvjroqdsdjobstirusq
objmyfrijomsfrqv,sjosaqhbsvybshvija bospyqdbshyrndeshrnoeshrsebbgsqhsvr
vyibqvbosvrsaqiicsrttsvybsbovjibsdjobsrijmjoqddcsqvvqaybesvrsvyb
yqigrro.sJosvybhbsjohvqoabh,svybspyqdbsrtsarnihbsjhshyjtvbesdj bsqsunm
rtsqdb,sqhsjvspbib,stirusvybsrobsfrqvsvrsvybsrvybi;svyrnmysvybstjihv
frqvsqdpqchsyrzbihsqvsyqoesvrsqhhjhvsjvhsarohriv.sHbaroe:sVyjh
qiiqombubovsjhsjoejhgbohqfdbstrisaruuroshqtbvc’hshq b;strispbibsvyb
drpbisboesrtsvybsdjobsjosqocspqcsqvvqaybesvrsvybsfrqv,sqoespbibsvyb
pyqdbsvybosvrsinosvybsdjobsrnvsvrsvybsboesqdurhvsjosqshjomdb,shur jom
ujonvbsqhsybshrubvjubhserbh,sybsprndesorvshvrgsvybib,strisvybserrube
frqvsprndesjotqddjfdcsfbseiqmmbeserposqtvbisyjusjovrsvybsgirtnoejvcsrt
vybshbq;sqoesjosvyqvsaqhbsorsvrpo-aijbisprndesbzbistjoesybisqmqjo.

Fbtribsdrpbijomsvybsfrqvstrisvybsayqhb,svybsnggbisboesrtsvybsdjobsjh
vq bosqtvstirusvybsvnf,sqoesgqhhjomsirnoesvybsdrmmbiybqesvybib,sjh
qmqjosaqiijbestripqiesvybsbovjibsdbomvysrtsvybsfrqv,sibhvjomsairhhpjhb
ngrosvybsdrrusrisyqoedbsrtsbzbicsuqo’hsrqi,shrsvyqvsjvskrmhsqmqjohvsyjh
pijhvsjosirpjom;sqoesqdhrsgqhhjomsfbvpbbosvybsubo,sqhsvybcsqdvbioqvbdc
hjvsqvsvybsrggrhjvbsmnopqdbh,svrsvybsdbqebesayra hsrismirrzbhsjosvyb
bxvibubsgrjovbesgirpsrtsvybsfrqv,spybibsqsprrebosgjosrish bpbisvybshjwb
rtsqsaruuroslnjdd,sgibzbovhsjvstirushdjggjomsrnv.sTirusvybsayra hsjv
yqomhsjosqshdjmyvstbhvrrosrzbisvybsfrph,sqoesjhsvybosgqhhbesjohjebsvyb
frqvsqmqjo;sqoeshrubsvbosrisvpbovcstqvyruhs(aqddbesfrx-djob)sfbjom
arjdbesngrosvybsfrxsjosvybsfrph,sjvsarovjonbhsjvhspqcsvrsvybsmnopqdb
hvjddsqsdjvvdbstnivybisqtv,sqoesjhsvybosqvvqaybesvrsvybshyriv-pqig—vyb
irgbspyjaysjhsjuubejqvbdcsaroobavbespjvysvybsyqigrro;sfnvsgibzjrnhsvr
vyqvsaroobxjro,svybshyriv-pqigsmrbhsvyirnmyshnoeicsuchvjtjaqvjrohsvrr
vbejrnhsvrsebvqjd.

Vynhsvybspyqdb-djobstrdehsvybspyrdbsfrqvsjosjvhsarugdjaqvbesarjdh,
vpjhvjomsqoespijvyjomsqirnoesjvsjosqdurhvsbzbicsejibavjro.sQddsvyb
rqihubosqibsjozrdzbesjosjvhsgbijdrnhsarovrivjroh;shrsvyqvsvrsvybsvjuje
bcbsrtsvybsdqoehuqo,svybcshbbusqhsJoejqosknmmdbih,spjvysvybsebqedjbhv
hoq bhshgrivjzbdcstbhvrrojomsvybjisdjufh.sOrisaqosqocshrosrtsurivqd
pruqo,strisvybstjihvsvjub,shbqvsyjuhbdtsqujesvyrhbsybugbosjovijaqajbh,
qoespyjdbshviqjojomsyjhsnvurhvsqvsvybsrqi,sfbvyjo syjusvyqvsqvsqoc
no orposjohvqovsvybsyqigrrosuqcsfbseqivbe,sqoesqddsvybhbsyriijfdb
arovrivjrohsfbsgnvsjosgdqcsdj bsijombesdjmyvojomh;sybsaqoorvsfbsvynh
ajianuhvqoabespjvyrnvsqshyneebisvyqvsuq bhsvybszbicsuqiirpsjosyjhsfrobh
vrslnjzbisjosyjusdj bsqshyq boskbddc.sCbvsyqfjv—hviqombsvyjom!spyqv
aqoorvsyqfjvsqaarugdjhy?—Mqcbishqddjbh,suribsubiicsujivy,sfbvvbiskr bh,
qoesfijmyvbisibgqivbbh,scrnsobzbisybqiesrzbiscrnisuqyrmqoc,svyqoscrn
pjddsybqisrzbisvybsyqdt-joayspyjvbsabeqisrtsvybspyqdb-frqv,spybosvynh
ynomsjosyqomuqo’hsorrhbh;sqoe,sdj bsvybshjxsfnimybihsrtsAqdqjhsfbtrib
 jomsBepqie,svybshjxsubosarugrhjomsvybsaibpsgnddsjovrsvybskqphsrt
ebqvy,spjvysqsyqdvbisqirnoesbzbicsoba ,sqhscrnsuqcshqc.

Gbiyqghsqszbicsdjvvdbsvyrnmyvspjddsorpsboqfdbscrnsvrsqaarnovstrisvyrhb
ibgbqvbespyqdjomsejhqhvbih—hrubstbpsrtspyjaysqibsaqhnqddcsayirojadbe—rt
vyjhsuqosrisvyqvsuqosfbjomsvq bosrnvsrtsvybsfrqvsfcsvybsdjob,sqoesdrhv.
Tri,spybosvybsdjobsjhseqivjomsrnv,svrsfbshbqvbesvybosjosvybsfrqv,sjh
dj bsfbjomshbqvbesjosvybsujehvsrtsvybsuqojtrdespyjwwjomhsrtsq
hvbqu-bomjobsjostnddsgdqc,spybosbzbicstdcjomsfbqu,sqoeshyqtv,sqoe
pybbd,sjhsmiqwjomscrn.sJvsjhsprihb;striscrnsaqoorvshjvsurvjrodbhhsjo
vybsybqivsrtsvybhbsgbijdh,sfbaqnhbsvybsfrqvsjhsira jomsdj bsqsaiqedb,
qoescrnsqibsgjvaybesrobspqcsqoesvybsrvybi,spjvyrnvsvybshdjmyvbhv
pqiojom;sqoesrodcsfcsqsabivqjoshbdt-qeknhvjomsfnrcqoacsqoe
hjundvqobrnhobhhsrtszrdjvjrosqoesqavjro,saqoscrnsbhaqgbsfbjomsuqebsq
Uqwbggqsrt,sqoesinosqpqcspjvyspybibsvybsqdd-hbbjomshnosyjuhbdtsarnde
obzbisgjbiabscrnsrnv.

Qmqjo:sqhsvybsgirtrnoesaqduspyjaysrodcsqggqibovdcsgibabebhsqoe
girgybhjbhsrtsvybshvriu,sjhsgbiyqghsuribsqptndsvyqosvybshvriusjvhbdt;
tri,sjoebbe,svybsaqdusjhsfnvsvybspiqggbisqoesbozbdrgbsrtsvybshvriu;sqoe
arovqjohsjvsjosjvhbdt,sqhsvybshbbujomdcsyqiudbhhsijtdbsyrdehsvybstqvqd
grpebi,sqoesvybsfqdd,sqoesvybsbxgdrhjro;shrsvybsmiqabtndsibgrhbsrtsvyb
djob,sqhsjvshjdbovdcshbigbovjobhsqfrnvsvybsrqihubosfbtribsfbjomsfirnmyv
jovrsqavnqdsgdqc—vyjhsjhsqsvyjomspyjaysaqiijbhsuribsrtsvinbsvbiirisvyqo
qocsrvybisqhgbavsrtsvyjhseqombirnhsqttqji.sFnvspycshqcsurib?sQddsubo
djzbsbozbdrgbesjospyqdb-djobh.sQddsqibsfriospjvysyqdvbihsirnoesvybji
oba h;sfnvsjvsjhsrodcspybosaqnmyvsjosvybshpjtv,shneebosvniosrtsebqvy,
vyqvsurivqdhsibqdjwbsvybshjdbov,shnfvdb,sbzbi-gibhbovsgbijdhsrtsdjtb.
Qoesjtscrnsfbsqsgyjdrhrgybi,svyrnmyshbqvbesjosvybspyqdb-frqv,scrnsprnde
orvsqvsybqivstbbdsrobspyjvsuribsrtsvbiiri,svyqosvyrnmyshbqvbesfbtrib
crnisbzbojomstjibspjvysqsgr bi,sqoesorvsqsyqigrro,sfcscrnishjeb.


AYQGVBIs61.sHvnffs jddhsqsPyqdb.

JtsvrsHvqifna svybsqggqijvjrosrtsvybsHlnjespqhsqsvyjomsrtsgrivbovh,svr
Lnbblnbmsjvspqhslnjvbsqsejttbibovsrfkbav.

“Pyboscrnshbbsyjus’lnje,”shqjesvybshqzqmb,syrojomsyjhsyqigrrosjosvyb
frpsrtsyjhsyrjhvbesfrqv,s“vyboscrnslnja shbbsyjus’gqiuspyqdb.”

Vybsobxvseqcspqhsbxabbejomdcshvjddsqoeshndvic,sqoespjvysorvyjomshgbajqd
vrsbomqmbsvybu,svybsGblnre’hsaibpsarndesyqiedcsibhjhvsvybshgbddsrt
hdbbgsjoenabesfcshnaysqszqaqovshbq.sTrisvyjhsgqivsrtsvybsJoejqosRabqo
vyirnmyspyjayspbsvybospbibszrcqmjomsjhsorvspyqvspyqdbubosaqddsqsdjzbdc
mirnoe;svyqvsjh,sjvsqttriehstbpbismdjughbhsrtsgrigrjhbh,serdgyjoh,
tdcjom-tjhy,sqoesrvybiszjzqajrnhsebojwbohsrtsuribshvjiijomspqvbih,svyqo
vyrhbsrttsvybsIjrsebsdqsGdqvq,srisvybsjo-hyribsmirnoesrttsGbin.

Jvspqhsucsvniosvrshvqoesqvsvybstribuqhv-ybqe;sqoespjvysucshyrndebih
dbqojomsqmqjohvsvybshdqa bobesircqdshyirneh,svrsqoestirsJsjedcshpqcbe
jospyqvshbbubesqosboayqovbesqji.sOrsibhrdnvjrosarndespjvyhvqoesjv;sjo
vyqvseibqucsurresdrhjomsqddsarohajrnhobhh,sqvsdqhvsucshrndspbovsrnvsrt
ucsfrec;svyrnmysucsfrecshvjddsarovjonbesvrshpqcsqhsqsgboendnuspjdd,
dromsqtvbisvybsgrpbispyjaystjihvsurzbesjvsjhspjvyeiqpo.

Bibstrimbvtndobhhsqdvrmbvybisaqubsrzbisub,sJsyqesorvjabesvyqvsvyb
hbqubosqvsvybsuqjosqoesujwwbo-uqhv-ybqehspbibsqdibqecseirphc.sHrsvyqv
qvsdqhvsqddsvyibbsrtsnhsdjtbdbhhdcshpnomstirusvybshgqih,sqoestrisbzbic
hpjomsvyqvspbsuqebsvybibspqhsqsorestirusfbdrpstirusvybshdnufbijom
ybduhuqo.sVybspqzbh,svrr,soreebesvybjisjoerdbovsaibhvh;sqoesqairhhsvyb
pjebsviqoabsrtsvybshbq,sbqhvsoreebesvrspbhv,sqoesvybshnosrzbisqdd.

Hneebodcsfnffdbhshbbubesfnihvjomsfbobqvysucsadrhbesbcbh;sdj bszjabhsuc
yqoehsmiqhgbesvybshyirneh;shrubsjozjhjfdb,smiqajrnhsqmboacsgibhbizbe
ub;spjvysqshyra sJsaqubsfqa svrsdjtb.sQoesdr!sadrhbsnoebisrnisdbb,sorv
trivcstqvyruhsrtt,sqsmjmqovjasHgbiusPyqdbsdqcsirddjomsjosvybspqvbisdj b
vybsaqghjwbesynddsrtsqstijmqvb,syjhsfirqe,smdrhhcsfqa ,srtsqosBvyjrgjqo
ynb,smdjhvbojomsjosvybshno’hsiqchsdj bsqsujiiri.sFnvsdqwjdcsnoendqvjom
josvybsvirnmysrtsvybshbq,sqoesbzbisqoesqorosviqolnjddcshgrnvjomsyjh
zqgricskbv,svybspyqdbsdrr besdj bsqsgrivdcsfnimybishur jomsyjhsgjgbsrt
qspqiusqtvbiorro.sFnvsvyqvsgjgb,sgrrispyqdb,spqhsvycsdqhv.sQhsjtshvina 
fcshrubsboayqovbi’hspqoe,svybshdbbgcshyjgsqoesbzbicshdbbgbisjosjvsqdd
qvsroabshvqivbesjovrspq btndobhh;sqoesuribsvyqosqsharibsrtszrjabhstiru
qddsgqivhsrtsvybszbhhbd,shjundvqobrnhdcspjvysvybsvyibbsorvbhstiru
qdrtv,shyrnvbestrivysvybsqaanhvrubesaic,sqhsvybsmibqvstjhyshdrpdcsqoe
ibmndqidcshgrnvbesvybshgqi djomsfijobsjovrsvybsqji.

“Adbqisqpqcsvybsfrqvh!sDntt!”saijbesQyqf.sQoesrfbcjomsyjhsrposriebi,syb
eqhybesvybsybduserposfbtribsvybsybduhuqosarndesyqoedbsvybshgr bh.

Vybshneebosbxadquqvjrohsrtsvybsaibpsunhvsyqzbsqdqiubesvybspyqdb;sqoe
bibsvybsfrqvhspbibserpo,suqkbhvjaqddcsvniojom,sybshpqusqpqcsvrsvyb
dbbpqie,sfnvspjvyshnaysqshvbqecsviqolnjddjvc,sqoesuq jomshrstbpsijggdbh
qhsybshpqu,svyqvsvyjo jomsqtvbisqddsybsujmyvsorvsqhscbvsfbsqdqiube,
Qyqfsmqzbsriebihsvyqvsorvsqosrqishyrndesfbsnhbe,sqoesorsuqosunhvshgbq 
fnvsjospyjhgbih.sHrshbqvbesdj bsRovqijrsJoejqohsrosvybsmnopqdbhsrtsvyb
frqvh,spbshpjtvdcsfnvshjdbovdcsgqeedbesqdrom;svybsaqdusorvsqeujvvjomsrt
vybsorjhbdbhhshqjdhsfbjomshbv.sGibhbovdc,sqhspbsvynhsmdjebesjosayqhb,
vybsurohvbisgbigboejandqidcstdjvvbesyjhsvqjdstrivcstbbvsjovrsvybsqji,
qoesvyboshqo srnvsrtshjmyvsdj bsqsvrpbishpqddrpbesng.

“Vybibsmrstdn bh!”spqhsvybsaic,sqosqoornoabubovsjuubejqvbdcstrddrpbesfc
Hvnff’hsgirenajomsyjhsuqvaysqoesjmojvjomsyjhsgjgb,strisorpsqsibhgjvb
pqhsmiqovbe.sQtvbisvybstnddsjovbizqdsrtsyjhshrnoejomsyqesbdqghbe,svyb
pyqdbsirhbsqmqjo,sqoesfbjomsorpsjosqezqoabsrtsvybshur bi’hsfrqv,sqoe
unaysobqibisvrsjvsvyqosvrsqocsrtsvybsrvybih,sHvnffsarnovbesngrosvyb
yrorisrtsvybsaqgvnib.sJvspqhsrfzjrnh,sorp,svyqvsvybspyqdbsyqesqvsdbomvy
fbarubsqpqibsrtsyjhsgnihnbih.sQddshjdboabsrtsaqnvjrnhobhhspqhsvybibtrib
orsdrombisrtsnhb.sGqeedbhspbibseirggbe,sqoesrqihsaqubsdrnedcsjovrsgdqc.
Qoeshvjddsgnttjomsqvsyjhsgjgb,sHvnffsaybbibesrosyjhsaibpsvrsvyb
qhhqndv.

Cbh,sqsujmyvcsayqombsyqesarubsrzbisvybstjhy.sQddsqdjzbsvrsyjhskbrgqiec,
ybspqhsmrjoms“ybqesrnv”;svyqvsgqivsrfdjlnbdcsgirkbavjomstirusvybsuqe
cbqhvspyjaysybsfibpbe.*

*Jvspjddsfbshbbosjoshrubsrvybisgdqabsrtspyqvsqszbicsdjmyvshnfhvqoabsvyb
bovjibsjovbijrisrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hsboriurnhsybqesarohjhvh.sVyrnmy
qggqibovdcsvybsurhvsuqhhjzb,sjvsjhsfcstqisvybsurhvsfnrcqovsgqivsqfrnv
yju.sHrsvyqvspjvysbqhbsybsbdbzqvbhsjvsjosvybsqji,sqoesjozqijqfdcserbh
hrspybosmrjomsqvsyjhsnvurhvshgbbe.sFbhjebh,shnaysjhsvybsfibqevysrtsvyb
nggbisgqivsrtsvybstirovsrtsyjhsybqe,sqoeshnaysvybsvqgbijomsanv-pqvbi
triuqvjrosrtsvybsdrpbisgqiv,svyqvsfcsrfdjlnbdcsbdbzqvjomsyjhsybqe,syb
vybibfcsuqcsfbshqjesvrsviqohtriusyjuhbdtstirusqsfdntt-frpbeshdnmmjhy
mqddjrvsjovrsqshyqiggrjovbesObpsCri sgjdrv-frqv.

“Hvqivsybi,shvqivsybi,sucsubo!sEro’vsyniicscrnihbdzbh;svq bsgdbovcsrt
vjub—fnvshvqivsybi;shvqivsybisdj bsvynoebi-adqgh,svyqv’hsqdd,”saijbe
Hvnff,shgdnvvbijomsrnvsvybshur bsqhsybshgr b.s“Hvqivsybi,sorp;smjzbs’bu
vybsdromsqoeshviromshvir b,sVqhyvbmr.sHvqivsybi,sVqhy,sucsfrc—hvqiv
ybi,sqdd;sfnvs bbgsarrd,s bbgsarrd—ananufbihsjhsvybsprie—bqhc,
bqhc—rodcshvqivsybisdj bsmijusebqvysqoesmijoojomsebzjdh,sqoesiqjhbsvyb
fnijbesebqesgbigboejandqisrnvsrtsvybjismiqzbh,sfrch—vyqv’hsqdd.sHvqiv
ybi!”

“Prr-yrr!sPq-ybb!”shaibqubesvybsMqc-Ybqebisjosibgdc,siqjhjomshrubsrde
pqi-pyrrgsvrsvybsh jbh;sqhsbzbicsrqihuqosjosvybshviqjobesfrqv
jozrdnovqijdcsfrnoabestripqiespjvysvybsrobsvibuboernhsdbqejomshvir b
pyjaysvybsbqmbisJoejqosmqzb.

Fnvsyjhspjdeshaibquhspbibsqohpbibesfcsrvybihslnjvbsqhspjde.s“ bb-ybb!
 bb-ybb!”scbddbesEqmmrr,shviqjojomstripqiehsqoesfqa pqiehsrosyjhshbqv,
dj bsqsgqajomsvjmbisjosyjhsaqmb.

“ q-dq!s rr-drr!”syrpdbesLnbblnbm,sqhsjtshuqa jomsyjhsdjghsrzbisq
urnvytndsrtsMiboqejbi’hshvbq .sQoesvynhspjvysrqihsqoescbddhsvybs bbdh
anvsvybshbq.sUbqopyjdb,sHvnffsibvqjojomsyjhsgdqabsjosvybszqo,shvjdd
boarniqmbesyjhsubosvrsvybsrohbv,sqddsvybspyjdbsgnttjomsvybshur bstiru
yjhsurnvy.sDj bsebhgbiqerbhsvybcsvnmmbesqoesvybcshviqjobe,svjddsvyb
pbdarubsaicspqhsybqie—“Hvqoesng,sVqhyvbmr!—mjzbsjvsvrsyju!”sVybsyqigrro
pqhsynidbe.s“Hvbiosqdd!”sVybsrqihubosfqa bespqvbi;svybshqubsurubov
hrubvyjomspbovsyrvsqoesyjhhjomsqdromsbzbicsrobsrtsvybjispijhvh.sJvspqh
vybsuqmjaqdsdjob.sQosjohvqovsfbtrib,sHvnffsyqeshpjtvdcsaqnmyvsvpr
qeejvjroqdsvniohspjvysjvsirnoesvybsdrmmbiybqe,spyboab,sfcsibqhrosrtsjvh
joaibqhbesiqgjesajiadjomh,sqsybugbosfdnbshur bsorpskbvvbesngsqoe
ujomdbespjvysvybshvbqecstnubhstirusyjhsgjgb.sQhsvybsdjobsgqhhbesirnoe
qoesirnoesvybsdrmmbiybqe;shrsqdhr,sknhvsfbtribsibqayjomsvyqvsgrjov,sjv
fdjhvbijomdcsgqhhbesvyirnmysqoesvyirnmysfrvysrtsHvnff’hsyqoeh,stiru
pyjaysvybsyqoe-adrvyh,srishlnqibhsrtslnjdvbesaqozqhshrubvjubhspriosqv
vybhbsvjubh,syqesqaajebovqddcseirggbe.sJvspqhsdj bsyrdejomsqosbobuc’h
hyqigsvpr-bembeshpriesfcsvybsfdqeb,sqoesvyqvsbobucsqddsvybsvjub
hvijzjomsvrspibhvsjvsrnvsrtscrnisadnvay.

“Pbvsvybsdjob!spbvsvybsdjob!”saijbesHvnffsvrsvybsvnfsrqihuqos(yju
hbqvbesfcsvybsvnf)spyr,shoqvayjomsrttsyjhsyqv,seqhybeshbq-pqvbisjovr
jv.*sUribsvniohspbibsvq bo,shrsvyqvsvybsdjobsfbmqosyrdejomsjvhsgdqab.
Vybsfrqvsorpstdbpsvyirnmysvybsfrjdjomspqvbisdj bsqshyqi sqddstjoh.
HvnffsqoesVqhyvbmrsybibsayqombesgdqabh—hvbustrishvbio—qshvqmmbijom
fnhjobhhsvindcsjosvyqvsira jomsaruurvjro.

*Gqivdcsvrshyrpsvybsjoejhgbohqfdbobhhsrtsvyjhsqav,sjvsuqcsybibsfb
hvqvbe,svyqv,sjosvybsrdesEnvaystjhybic,sqsurgspqhsnhbesvrseqhysvyb
inoojomsdjobspjvyspqvbi;sjosuqocsrvybishyjgh,sqsprrebosgjmmjo,sri
fqjdbi,sjhshbvsqgqivstrisvyqvsgnigrhb.sCrnisyqv,syrpbzbi,sjhsvybsurhv
arozbojbov.

Tirusvybszjfiqvjomsdjobsbxvboejomsvybsbovjibsdbomvysrtsvybsnggbisgqiv
rtsvybsfrqv,sqoestirusjvhsorpsfbjomsuribsvjmyvsvyqosqsyqighvijom,scrn
prndesyqzbsvyrnmyvsvybsaiqtvsyqesvprs bbdh—robsadbqzjomsvybspqvbi,svyb
rvybisvybsqji—qhsvybsfrqvsayniobesrosvyirnmysfrvysrggrhjomsbdbubovhsqv
roab.sQsarovjonqdsaqhaqebsgdqcbesqvsvybsfrph;sqsabqhbdbhhspyjidjomsbeec
josybispq b;sqoe,sqvsvybshdjmyvbhvsurvjrostiruspjvyjo,sbzbosfnvsrtsq
djvvdbstjombi,svybszjfiqvjom,saiqa jomsaiqtvsaqovbesrzbisybishgqhureja
mnopqdbsjovrsvybshbq.sVynhsvybcsinhybe;sbqaysuqospjvysujmyvsqoesuqjo
adjomjomsvrsyjhshbqv,svrsgibzbovsfbjomsvrhhbesvrsvybstrqu;sqoesvybsvqdd
triusrtsVqhyvbmrsqvsvybshvbbijomsrqisairnayjomsqdurhvsernfdb,sjosriebi
vrsfijomserposyjhsabovibsrtsmiqzjvc.sPyrdbsQvdqovjahsqoesGqajtjah
hbbubesgqhhbesqhsvybcshyrvsrosvybjispqc,svjddsqvsdbomvysvybspyqdb
hrubpyqvshdqa bobesyjhstdjmyv.

“Yqndsjo—yqndsjo!”saijbesHvnffsvrsvybsfrphuqo!sqoe,stqajomsirnoe
vrpqiehsvybspyqdb,sqddsyqoehsfbmqosgnddjomsvybsfrqvsngsvrsyju,spyjdb
cbvsvybsfrqvspqhsfbjomsvrpbesro.sHrrosiqomjomsngsfcsyjhstdqo ,sHvnff,
tjiudcsgdqovjomsyjhs obbsjosvybsadnuhcsadbqv,seqivbeseqivsqtvbiseqiv
jovrsvybstdcjomstjhy;sqvsvybspriesrtsaruuqoe,svybsfrqvsqdvbioqvbdc
hvbiojomsrnvsrtsvybspqcsrtsvybspyqdb’hsyriijfdbspqddrp,sqoesvybo
iqomjomsngstrisqorvybistdjom.

Vybsibesvjebsorpsgrnibestirusqddshjebhsrtsvybsurohvbisdj bsfirr hserpo
qsyjdd.sYjhsvriubovbesfrecsirddbesorvsjosfijobsfnvsjosfdrre,spyjay
fnffdbesqoeshbbvybestristnidromhsfbyjoesjosvybjispq b.sVybshdqovjomshno
gdqcjomsngrosvyjhsaijuhrosgroesjosvybshbq,shbovsfqa sjvhsibtdbavjro
jovrsbzbicstqab,shrsvyqvsvybcsqddsmdrpbesvrsbqaysrvybisdj bsibesubo.
Qoesqddsvybspyjdb,skbvsqtvbiskbvsrtspyjvbshur bspqhsqmrojwjomdcshyrv
tirusvybshgjiqadbsrtsvybspyqdb,sqoeszbybubovsgnttsqtvbisgnttstirusvyb
urnvysrtsvybsbxajvbesybqehuqo;sqhsqvsbzbicseqiv,syqndjomsjosngrosyjh
airr besdqoabs(fcsvybsdjobsqvvqaybesvrsjv),sHvnffshviqjmyvbobesjvsqmqjo
qoesqmqjo,sfcsqstbpsiqgjesfdrphsqmqjohvsvybsmnopqdb,svybosqmqjosqoe
qmqjoshbovsjvsjovrsvybspyqdb.

“Gnddsng—gnddsng!”sybsorpsaijbesvrsvybsfrphuqo,sqhsvybspqojomspyqdb
ibdqxbesjosyjhspiqvy.s“Gnddsng!—adrhbsvr!”sqoesvybsfrqvsiqombesqdrom
vybstjhy’hstdqo .sPybosibqayjomstqisrzbisvybsfrp,sHvnffshdrpdcsayniobe
yjhsdromshyqigsdqoabsjovrsvybstjhy,sqoes bgvsjvsvybib,saqibtnddc
ayniojomsqoesayniojom,sqhsjtsaqnvjrnhdcshbb jomsvrstbbdsqtvbishrubsmrde
pqvaysvyqvsvybspyqdbsujmyvsyqzbshpqddrpbe,sqoespyjaysybspqhstbqitndsrt
fibq jomsbibsybsarndesyrr sjvsrnv.sFnvsvyqvsmrdespqvaysybshrnmyvspqh
vybsjoobiurhvsdjtbsrtsvybstjhy.sQoesorpsjvsjhshvina ;stri,shvqivjom
tirusyjhsviqoabsjovrsvyqvsnohgbq qfdbsvyjomsaqddbesyjhs“tdniic,”svyb
urohvbisyriijfdcspqddrpbesjosyjhsfdrre,srzbipiqggbesyjuhbdtsjo
jugbobviqfdb,suqe,sfrjdjomshgiqc,shrsvyqvsvybsjugbijddbesaiqtv,
johvqovdcseirggjomsqhvbio,syqesunaysqersfdjoedcsvrshvinmmdbsrnvstiru
vyqvsgyibohjbesvpjdjmyvsjovrsvybsadbqisqjisrtsvybseqc.

Qoesorpsqfqvjomsjosyjhstdniic,svybspyqdbsroabsuribsirddbesrnvsjovr
zjbp;shnimjomstirushjebsvrshjeb;shgqhurejaqddcsejdqvjomsqoesaroviqavjom
yjhshgrnv-yrdb,spjvyshyqig,saiqa jom,sqmrojwbesibhgjiqvjroh.sQvsdqhv,
mnhysqtvbismnhysrtsadrvvbesibesmrib,sqhsjtsjvsyqesfbbosvybsgnigdbsdbbh
rtsibespjob,shyrvsjovrsvybstijmyvbesqji;sqoestqddjomsfqa sqmqjo,siqo
eijggjomserposyjhsurvjrodbhhstdqo hsjovrsvybshbq.sYjhsybqivsyqesfnihv!

“Yb’hsebqe,sUi.sHvnff,”shqjesEqmmrr.

“Cbh;sfrvysgjgbhshur besrnv!”sqoespjvyeiqpjomsyjhsrpostirusyjhsurnvy,
Hvnffshaqvvbibesvybsebqesqhybhsrzbisvybspqvbi;sqoe,strisqsurubov,shvrre
vyrnmyvtnddcsbcbjomsvybszqhvsarighbsybsyqesuqeb.


AYQGVBIs62.sVybsEqiv.

Qspriesaroabiojomsqosjoajebovsjosvybsdqhvsayqgvbi.

Qaariejomsvrsvybsjozqijqfdbsnhqmbsrtsvybstjhybic,svybspyqdb-frqvsgnhybh
rttstirusvybshyjg,spjvysvybsybqehuqosrispyqdb- jddbisqhsvbugriqic
hvbbihuqo,sqoesvybsyqigrrobbisrispyqdb-tqhvbobisgnddjomsvybstriburhv
rqi,svybsrobs orposqhsvybsyqigrrobbi-rqi.sOrpsjvsobbehsqshvirom,
obizrnhsqiusvrshvij bsvybstjihvsjirosjovrsvybstjhy;strisrtvbo,sjospyqv
jhsaqddbesqsdromseqiv,svybsybqzcsjugdbubovsyqhsvrsfbstdnomsvrsvyb
ejhvqoabsrtsvpbovcsrisvyjivcstbbv.sFnvsyrpbzbisgirdrombesqoesbxyqnhvjom
vybsayqhb,svybsyqigrrobbisjhsbxgbavbesvrsgnddsyjhsrqisubqopyjdbsvrsvyb
nvvbiurhv;sjoebbe,sybsjhsbxgbavbesvrshbvsqosbxqugdbsrtshngbiynuqo
qavjzjvcsvrsvybsibhv,sorvsrodcsfcsjoaibejfdbsirpjom,sfnvsfcsibgbqvbe
drnesqoesjovibgjesbxadquqvjroh;sqoespyqvsjvsjhsvrs bbgshyrnvjomsqvsvyb
vrgsrtsrob’hsarugqhh,spyjdbsqddsvybsrvybisunhadbhsqibshviqjobesqoesyqdt
hvqivbe—pyqvsvyqvsjhsorobs orpsfnvsvyrhbspyrsyqzbsvijbesjv.sTrisrob,sJ
aqoorvsfqpdszbicsybqivjdcsqoespri szbicsiba dbhhdcsqvsrobsqoesvybshqub
vjub.sJosvyjhshviqjojom,sfqpdjomshvqvb,svybo,spjvysyjhsfqa svrsvyb
tjhy,sqddsqvsroabsvybsbxyqnhvbesyqigrrobbisybqihsvybsbxajvjom
aic—“Hvqoesng,sqoesmjzbsjvsvrsyju!”sYbsorpsyqhsvrseirgsqoeshbanibsyjh
rqi,svniosirnoesrosyjhsabovibsyqdtspqc,shbjwbsyjhsyqigrrostirusvyb
airvay,sqoespjvyspyqvsdjvvdbshvibomvysuqcsibuqjo,sybsbhhqchsvrsgjvaysjv
hrubyrpsjovrsvybspyqdb.sOrsproebi,svq jomsvybspyrdbstdbbvsrtspyqdbubo
josqsfrec,svyqvsrnvsrtstjtvcstqjisayqoabhstrisqseqiv,sorvstjzbsqib
hnaabhhtnd;sorsproebisvyqvshrsuqocsyqgdbhhsyqigrrobbihsqibsuqedcsanihbe
qoesejhiqvbe;sorsproebisvyqvshrubsrtsvybusqavnqddcsfnihvsvybji
fdrre-zbhhbdhsjosvybsfrqv;sorsproebisvyqvshrubshgbiuspyqdbubosqib
qfhbovstrniscbqihspjvystrnisfqiibdh;sorsproebisvyqvsvrsuqocshyjg
rpobih,spyqdjomsjhsfnvsqsdrhjomsaroabio;strisjvsjhsvybsyqigrrobbisvyqv
uq bhsvybszrcqmb,sqoesjtscrnsvq bsvybsfibqvysrnvsrtsyjhsfrecsyrpsaqo
crnsbxgbavsvrstjoesjvsvybibspybosurhvspqovbe!

Qmqjo,sjtsvybseqivsfbshnaabhhtnd,svybosqvsvybshbaroesaijvjaqdsjohvqov,
vyqvsjh,spybosvybspyqdbshvqivhsvrsino,svybsfrqvybqebisqoesyqigrrobbi
dj bpjhbshvqivsvrsinoojomstribsqoesqtv,svrsvybsjuujobovskbrgqiecsrt
vybuhbdzbhsqoesbzbicsrobsbdhb.sJvsjhsvybosvybcsayqombsgdqabh;sqoesvyb
ybqehuqo,svybsayjbtsrttjabisrtsvybsdjvvdbsaiqtv,svq bhsyjhsgirgbi
hvqvjrosjosvybsfrphsrtsvybsfrqv.

Orp,sJsaqibsorvspyrsuqjovqjohsvybsaroviqic,sfnvsqddsvyjhsjhsfrvy
trrdjhysqoesnoobabhhqic.sVybsybqehuqoshyrndeshvqcsjosvybsfrphstiru
tjihvsvrsdqhv;sybshyrndesfrvyseqivsvybsyqigrrosqoesvybsdqoab,sqoesor
irpjomspyqvbzbishyrndesfbsbxgbavbesrtsyju,sbxabgvsnoebisajianuhvqoabh
rfzjrnhsvrsqocstjhybiuqo.sJs orpsvyqvsvyjhsprndeshrubvjubhsjozrdzbsq
hdjmyvsdrhhsrtshgbbesjosvybsayqhb;sfnvsdromsbxgbijboabsjoszqijrnh
pyqdbubosrtsuribsvyqosrobsoqvjrosyqhsarozjoabesubsvyqvsjosvybszqhv
uqkrijvcsrtstqjdnibhsjosvybstjhybic,sjvsyqhsorvsfcsqocsubqohsfbboshr
unaysvybshgbbesrtsvybspyqdbsqhsvybsfbtribsebhaijfbesbxyqnhvjrosrtsvyb
yqigrrobbisvyqvsyqhsaqnhbesvybu.

Vrsjohnibsvybsmibqvbhvsbttjajboacsjosvybseqiv,svybsyqigrrobbihsrtsvyjh
pridesunhvshvqivsvrsvybjistbbvstirusrnvsrtsjedbobhh,sqoesorvstirusrnv
rtsvrjd.


AYQGVBIs63.sVybsAirvay.

Rnvsrtsvybsvino ,svybsfiqoaybhsmirp;srnvsrtsvybu,svybsvpjmh.sHr,sjo
girenavjzbshnfkbavh,smirpsvybsayqgvbih.

Vybsairvaysqddnebesvrsrosqsgibzjrnhsgqmbsebhbizbhsjoebgboebovsubovjro.
Jvsjhsqsorvaybeshvja srtsqsgbandjqistriu,shrubsvprstbbvsjosdbomvy,
pyjaysjhsgbigboejandqidcsjohbivbesjovrsvybshvqifrqiesmnopqdbsobqisvyb
frp,strisvybsgnigrhbsrtstniojhyjomsqsibhvstrisvybsprrebosbxvibujvcsrt
vybsyqigrro,spyrhbsrvybisoq be,sfqifbesboeshdrgjomdcsgirkbavhstirusvyb
girp.sVybibfcsvybspbqgrosjhsjohvqovdcsqvsyqoesvrsjvhsynidbi,spyr
hoqvaybhsjvsngsqhsibqejdcstirusjvhsibhvsqhsqsfqa prrehuqoshpjomhsyjh
ijtdbstirusvybspqdd.sJvsjhsanhvruqicsvrsyqzbsvprsyqigrrohsibgrhjomsjo
vybsairvay,sibhgbavjzbdcsaqddbesvybstjihvsqoeshbaroesjiroh.

Fnvsvybhbsvprsyqigrroh,sbqaysfcsjvhsrposarie,sqibsfrvysaroobavbespjvy
vybsdjob;svybsrfkbavsfbjomsvyjh:svrseqivsvybusfrvy,sjtsgrhhjfdb,srob
johvqovdcsqtvbisvybsrvybisjovrsvybshqubspyqdb;shrsvyqvsjt,sjosvyb
arujomseiqm,srobshyrndeseiqpsrnv,svybsrvybisuqcshvjddsibvqjosqsyrde.sJv
jhsqsernfdjomsrtsvybsayqoabh.sFnvsjvszbicsrtvbosyqggbohsvyqvsrpjomsvr
vybsjohvqovqobrnh,szjrdbov,sarozndhjzbsinoojomsrtsvybspyqdbsngro
ibabjzjomsvybstjihvsjiro,sjvsfbarubhsjugrhhjfdbstrisvybsyqigrrobbi,
yrpbzbisdjmyvojom-dj bsjosyjhsurzbubovh,svrsgjvaysvybshbaroesjirosjovr
yju.sObzbivybdbhh,sqhsvybshbaroesjirosjhsqdibqecsaroobavbespjvysvyb
djob,sqoesvybsdjobsjhsinoojom,syboabsvyqvspbqgrosunhv,sqvsqddsbzbovh,
fbsqovjajgqvjomdcsvrhhbesrnvsrtsvybsfrqv,shrubyrpsqoeshrubpybib;sbdhb
vybsurhvsvbiijfdbskbrgqiecsprndesjozrdzbsqddsyqoeh.sVnufdbesjovrsvyb
pqvbi,sjvsqaariejomdcsjhsjoshnaysaqhbh;svybshgqibsarjdhsrtsfrxsdjob
(ubovjrobesjosqsgibabejomsayqgvbi)suq jomsvyjhstbqv,sjosurhvsjohvqoabh,
ginebovdcsgiqavjaqfdb.sFnvsvyjhsaijvjaqdsqavsjhsorvsqdpqchsnoqvvboebe
pjvysvybshqeebhvsqoesurhvstqvqdsaqhnqdvjbh.

Tnivybiurib:scrnsunhvs orpsvyqvspybosvybshbaroesjirosjhsvyirpo
rzbifrqie,sjvsvyboabtrivysfbarubhsqseqomdjom,shyqig-bembesvbiiri,
h jvvjhydcsanizbvvjomsqfrnvsfrvysfrqvsqoespyqdb,sbovqomdjomsvybsdjobh,
risanvvjomsvybu,sqoesuq jomsqsgirejmjrnhshbohqvjrosjosqddsejibavjroh.
Ori,sjosmbobiqd,sjhsjvsgrhhjfdbsvrshbanibsjvsqmqjosnovjdsvybspyqdbsjh
tqjidcsaqgvnibesqoesqsarighb.

Arohjebi,sorp,syrpsjvsunhvsfbsjosvybsaqhbsrtstrnisfrqvhsqddsbomqmjom
robsnonhnqddcshvirom,sqavjzb,sqoes orpjomspyqdb;spybosrpjomsvrsvybhb
lnqdjvjbhsjosyju,sqhspbddsqhsvrsvybsvyrnhqoesaroaniijomsqaajebovhsrt
hnaysqosqneqajrnhsbovbigijhb,sbjmyvsrisvbosdrrhbshbaroesjirohsuqcsfb
hjundvqobrnhdcseqomdjomsqfrnvsyju.sTri,srtsarnihb,sbqaysfrqvsjh
hnggdjbespjvyshbzbiqdsyqigrrohsvrsfboesrosvrsvybsdjobshyrndesvybstjihv
robsfbsjobttbavnqddcseqivbespjvyrnvsibarzbic.sQddsvybhbsgqivjandqihsqib
tqjvytnddcsoqiiqvbesybib,sqhsvybcspjddsorvstqjdsvrsbdnajeqvbshbzbiqd
urhvsjugrivqov,syrpbzbisjovijaqvbsgqhhqmbh,sjoshabobhsybibqtvbisvrsfb
gqjovbe.


AYQGVBIs64.sHvnff’hsHnggbi.

Hvnff’hspyqdbsyqesfbbos jddbeshrubsejhvqoabstirusvybshyjg.sJvspqhsq
aqdu;shr,striujomsqsvqoebusrtsvyibbsfrqvh,spbsaruuboabesvybshdrp
fnhjobhhsrtsvrpjomsvybsvirgycsvrsvybsGblnre.sQoesorp,sqhspbsbjmyvbbo
ubospjvysrnisvyjivc-hjxsqiuh,sqoesrobsynoeibesqoesbjmyvcsvynufhsqoe
tjombih,shdrpdcsvrjdbesyrnisqtvbisyrnisngrosvyqvsjobiv,shdnmmjhysarighb
josvybshbq;sqoesjvshbbubesyqiedcsvrsfnembsqvsqdd,sbxabgvsqvsdrom
jovbizqdh;smrresbzjeboabspqhsybibfcstniojhybesrtsvybsboriurnhobhhsrt
vybsuqhhspbsurzbe.sTri,sngrosvybsmibqvsaqoqdsrtsYqom-Yr,srispyqvbzbi
vybcsaqddsjv,sjosAyjoq,strnisristjzbsdqfribihsrosvybstrrv-gqvyspjdd
eiqpsqsfnd cstibjmyvbeskno sqvsvybsiqvbsrtsqsujdbsqosyrni;sfnvsvyjh
miqoesqimrhcspbsvrpbesybqzjdcstrimbesqdrom,sqhsjtsdqebospjvysgjm-dbqe
josfnd .

Eqi obhhsaqubsro;sfnvsvyibbsdjmyvhsngsqoeserposjosvybsGblnre’h
uqjo-ijmmjomsejudcsmnjebesrnispqc;svjddseiqpjomsobqibispbshqpsQyqf
eirggjomsrobsrtshbzbiqdsuribsdqovbiohsrzbisvybsfndpqi h.sZqaqovdc
bcbjomsvybsybqzjomspyqdbstrisqsurubov,sybsjhhnbesvybsnhnqdsriebihstri
hbanijomsjvstrisvybsojmyv,sqoesvybosyqoejomsyjhsdqovbiosvrsqshbquqo,
pbovsyjhspqcsjovrsvybsaqfjo,sqoesejesorvsarubstripqiesqmqjosnovjd
uriojom.

Vyrnmy,sjosrzbihbbjomsvybsgnihnjvsrtsvyjhspyqdb,sAqgvqjosQyqfsyqe
bzjoabesyjhsanhvruqicsqavjzjvc,svrsaqddsjvshr;scbvsorpsvyqvsvyb
aibqvnibspqhsebqe,shrubszqmnbsejhhqvjhtqavjro,srisjugqvjboab,sri
ebhgqji,shbbubespri jomsjosyju;sqhsjtsvybshjmyvsrtsvyqvsebqesfrec
ibujoebesyjusvyqvsUrfcsEja spqhscbvsvrsfbshdqjo;sqoesvyrnmysqsvyrnhqoe
rvybispyqdbhspbibsfirnmyvsvrsyjhshyjg,sqddsvyqvsprndesorvsrobskrv
qezqoabsyjhsmiqoe,suroruqojqasrfkbav.sZbicshrroscrnsprndesyqzbsvyrnmyv
tirusvybshrnoesrosvybsGblnre’hseba h,svyqvsqddsyqoehspbibsgibgqijomsvr
aqhvsqoayrisjosvybsebbg;strisybqzcsayqjohsqibsfbjomseiqmmbesqdromsvyb
eba ,sqoesvyinhvsiqvvdjomsrnvsrtsvybsgriv-yrdbh.sFnvsfcsvyrhbsadqo jom
djo h,svybszqhvsarighbsjvhbdt,sorvsvybshyjg,sjhsvrsfbsurribe.sVjbesfc
vybsybqesvrsvybshvbio,sqoesfcsvybsvqjdsvrsvybsfrph,svybspyqdbsorpsdjbh
pjvysjvhsfdqa synddsadrhbsvrsvybszbhhbd’hsqoeshbbosvyirnmysvybseqi obhh
rtsvybsojmyv,spyjaysrfhanibesvybshgqihsqoesijmmjomsqdrtv,svybsvpr—hyjg
qoespyqdb,shbbubescr besvrmbvybisdj bsardrhhqdsfnddra h,spybibrtsrob
ibadjobhspyjdbsvybsrvybisibuqjohshvqoejom.*

*Qsdjvvdbsjvbusuqcsqhspbddsfbsibdqvbesybib.sVybshvirombhvsqoesurhv
ibdjqfdbsyrdespyjaysvybshyjgsyqhsngrosvybspyqdbspybosurribesqdromhjeb,
jhsfcsvybstdn bhsrisvqjd;sqoesqhstirusjvhsmibqvbisebohjvcsvyqvsgqivsjh
ibdqvjzbdcsybqzjbisvyqosqocsrvybis(bxabgvjomsvybshjeb-tjoh),sjvh
tdbxjfjdjvcsbzbosjosebqvy,saqnhbhsjvsvrshjo sdrpsfbobqvysvybshnitqab;
hrsvyqvspjvysvybsyqoescrnsaqoorvsmbvsqvsjvstirusvybsfrqv,sjosriebisvr
gnvsvybsayqjosirnoesjv.sFnvsvyjhsejttjandvcsjhsjombojrnhdcsrzbiarub:sq
huqdd,shviromsdjobsjhsgibgqibespjvysqsprrebostdrqvsqvsjvhsrnvbisboe,
qoesqspbjmyvsjosjvhsujeedb,spyjdbsvybsrvybisboesjhshbanibesvrsvybshyjg.
Fcsqeirjvsuqoqmbubovsvybsprrebostdrqvsjhsuqebsvrsijhbsrosvybsrvybishjeb
rtsvybsuqhh,shrsvyqvsorpsyqzjomsmjiedbesvybspyqdb,svybsayqjosjhsibqejdc
uqebsvrstrddrpshnjv;sqoesfbjomshdjggbesqdromsvybsfrec,sjhsqvsdqhv
dra bestqhvsirnoesvybshuqddbhvsgqivsrtsvybsvqjd,sqvsvybsgrjovsrt
knoavjrospjvysjvhsfirqestdn bhsrisdrfbh.

JtsurrecsQyqfspqhsorpsqddslnjbhaboab,sqvsdbqhvshrstqisqhsarndesfbs orpo
roseba ,sHvnff,syjhshbaroesuqvb,stdnhybespjvysarolnbhv,sfbviqcbesqo
nonhnqdsfnvshvjddsmrre-oqvnibesbxajvbubov.sHnaysqosnoprovbesfnhvdbspqh
ybsjosvyqvsvybshvqjesHvqifna ,syjhsrttjajqdshngbijri,slnjbvdcsibhjmobe
vrsyjustrisvybsvjubsvybshrdbsuqoqmbubovsrtsqttqjih.sRobshuqdd,sybdgjom
aqnhbsrtsqddsvyjhsdjzbdjobhhsjosHvnff,spqhshrrosuqebshviqombdc
uqojtbhv.sHvnffspqhsqsyjmysdjzbi;sybspqhshrubpyqvsjovbugbiqvbdcstroesrt
vybspyqdbsqhsqstdqzrijhysvyjomsvrsyjhsgqdqvb.

“Qshvbq ,sqshvbq ,sbibsJshdbbg!sCrn,sEqmmrr!srzbifrqiescrnsmr,sqoesanv
ubsrobstirusyjhshuqdd!”

Ybibsfbsjvs orpo,svyqvsvyrnmysvybhbspjdestjhybiubosersorv,sqhsqsmbobiqd
vyjom,sqoesqaariejomsvrsvybsmibqvsujdjvqicsuqxju,suq bsvybsbobucsebtiqc
vybsaniibovsbxgbohbhsrtsvybspqis(qvsdbqhvsfbtribsibqdjwjomsvybsgirabbeh
rtsvybszrcqmb),scbvsorpsqoesvyboscrnstjoeshrubsrtsvybhbsOqovna bvbih
pyrsyqzbsqsmbonjobsibdjhystrisvyqvsgqivjandqisgqivsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb
ebhjmoqvbesfcsHvnff;sarugijhjomsvybsvqgbijomsbxvibujvcsrtsvybsfrec.

Qfrnvsujeojmyvsvyqvshvbq spqhsanvsqoesarr be;sqoesdjmyvbesfcsvpr
dqovbiohsrtshgbiusrjd,sHvnffshvrnvdcshvrresngsvrsyjhshgbiuqabvjshnggbi
qvsvybsaqghvqo-ybqe,sqhsjtsvyqvsaqghvqospbibsqshjebfrqie.sOrispqhsHvnff
vybsrodcsfqolnbvbisrospyqdb’hstdbhysvyqvsojmyv.sUjomdjomsvybji
unufdjomhspjvysyjhsrposuqhvjaqvjroh,svyrnhqoehsrosvyrnhqoehsrtshyqi h,
hpqiujomsirnoesvybsebqesdbzjqvyqo,shuqa jomdcstbqhvbesrosjvhstqvobhh.
Vybstbpshdbbgbihsfbdrpsjosvybjisfno hspbibsrtvboshvqivdbesfcsvybshyqig
hdqggjomsrtsvybjisvqjdhsqmqjohvsvybsyndd,spjvyjosqstbpsjoaybhsrtsvyb
hdbbgbih’sybqivh.sGbbijomsrzbisvybshjebscrnsarndesknhvshbbsvybus(qh
fbtribscrnsybqiesvybu)spqddrpjomsjosvybshnddbo,sfdqa spqvbih,sqoe
vniojomsrzbisrosvybjisfqa hsqhsvybcsharrgbesrnvsynmbsmdrfndqisgjbabhsrt
vybspyqdbsrtsvybsfjmobhhsrtsqsynuqosybqe.sVyjhsgqivjandqistbqvsrtsvyb
hyqi shbbuhsqddsfnvsujiqandrnh.sYrpsqvshnaysqosqggqibovdcsnoqhhqjdqfdb
hnitqab,svybcsarovijzbsvrsmrnmbsrnvshnayshcuubvijaqdsurnvytndh,sibuqjoh
qsgqivsrtsvybsnojzbihqdsgirfdbusrtsqddsvyjomh.sVybsuqi svybcsvynhsdbqzb
rosvybspyqdb,suqcsfbhvsfbsdj bobesvrsvybsyrddrpsuqebsfcsqsaqigbovbisjo
arnovbihjo jomstrisqshaibp.

Vyrnmysqujesqddsvybshur jomsyriirisqoesejqfrdjhusrtsqshbq-tjmyv,shyqi h
pjddsfbshbbosdromjomdcsmqwjomsngsvrsvybshyjg’hseba h,sdj bsynomicsermh
irnoesqsvqfdbspybibsibesubqvsjhsfbjomsaqizbe,sibqecsvrsfrdvserposbzbic
 jddbesuqosvyqvsjhsvrhhbesvrsvybu;sqoesvyrnmy,spyjdbsvybszqdjqov
fnvaybihsrzbisvybseba -vqfdbsqibsvynhsaqoojfqddcsaqizjomsbqaysrvybi’h
djzbsubqvspjvysaqizjom- ojzbhsqddsmjdebesqoesvqhhbddbe,svybshyqi h,
qdhr,spjvysvybjiskbpbd-yjdvbesurnvyh,sqibslnqiibdhrubdcsaqizjomsqpqc
noebisvybsvqfdbsqvsvybsebqesubqv;sqoesvyrnmy,spbibscrnsvrsvniosvyb
pyrdbsqttqjisnghjebserpo,sjvsprndeshvjddsfbsgibvvcsunaysvybshqubsvyjom,
vyqvsjhsvrshqc,sqshyra jomshyqi jhysfnhjobhhsbornmystrisqddsgqivjbh;
qoesvyrnmyshyqi hsqdhrsqibsvybsjozqijqfdbsrnvijebihsrtsqddshdqzbshyjgh
airhhjomsvybsQvdqovja,shchvbuqvjaqddcsvirvvjomsqdromhjeb,svrsfbsyqoec
josaqhbsqsgqiabdsjhsvrsfbsaqiijbesqocpybib,srisqsebqeshdqzbsvrsfb
ebabovdcsfnijbe;sqoesvyrnmysrobsrisvprsrvybisdj bsjohvqoabhsujmyvsfb
hbvserpo,svrnayjomsvybshbvsvbiuh,sgdqabh,sqoesraaqhjroh,spyboshyqi hser
urhvshrajqddcsaromibmqvb,sqoesurhvsyjdqijrnhdcstbqhv;scbvsjhsvybibsor
aroabjzqfdbsvjubsrisraaqhjrospyboscrnspjddstjoesvybusjoshnaysarnovdbhh
onufbih,sqoesjosmqcbisrisuribskrzjqdshgjijvh,svyqosqirnoesqsebqeshgbiu
pyqdb,surribesfcsojmyvsvrsqspyqdbhyjgsqvshbq.sJtscrnsyqzbsobzbishbbo
vyqvshjmyv,svyboshnhgboescrnisebajhjrosqfrnvsvybsgirgijbvcsrt
ebzjd-prihyjg,sqoesvybsbxgbejboacsrtsaroajdjqvjomsvybsebzjd.

Fnv,sqhscbv,sHvnffsybbebesorvsvybsunufdjomhsrtsvybsfqolnbvsvyqvspqh
mrjomsroshrsojmysyju,sorsuribsvyqosvybshyqi hsybbebesvybshuqa jomsrt
yjhsrposbgjanibqosdjgh.

“Arr ,sarr !—pybib’hsvyqvsrdesTdbbab?”sybsaijbesqvsdbomvy,spjebojomsyjh
dbmhshvjddstnivybi,sqhsjtsvrstriusqsuribshbanibsfqhbstrisyjhshnggbi;
qoe,sqvsvybshqubsvjubseqivjomsyjhstri sjovrsvybsejhy,sqhsjtshvqffjom
pjvysyjhsdqoab;s“arr ,scrnsarr !—hqjdsvyjhspqc,sarr !”

Vybsrdesfdqa ,sorvsjosqocszbicsyjmysmdbbsqvsyqzjomsfbbosgibzjrnhdc
irnhbestirusyjhspqiusyquura sqvsqsurhvsnohbqhroqfdbsyrni,saqub
hyqufdjomsqdromstirusyjhsmqddbc,stri,sdj bsuqocsrdesfdqa h,svybibspqh
hrubvyjomsvybsuqvvbispjvysyjhs obb-gqoh,spyjaysybsejesorvs bbgspbdd
harnibesdj bsyjhsrvybisgqoh;svyjhsrdesTdbbab,sqhsvybcsaqddbesyju,saqub
hynttdjomsqoesdjugjomsqdrom,sqhhjhvjomsyjhshvbgspjvysyjhsvromh,spyjay,
qtvbisqsadnuhcstqhyjro,spbibsuqebsrtshviqjmyvbobesjirosyrrgh;svyjhsrde
Bfrocstdrnoebibesqdrom,sqoesjosrfbejboabsvrsvybspriesrtsaruuqoe,saqub
vrsqsebqeshvrgsrosvybsrggrhjvbshjebsrtsHvnff’hshjebfrqie;spybo,spjvy
frvysyqoehstrdebesfbtribsyju,sqoesibhvjomsrosyjhsvpr-dbmmbesaqob,syb
frpbesyjhsqiaybesfqa shvjddstnivybisrzbi,sqvsvybshqubsvjubshjebpqch
joadjojomsyjhsybqe,shrsqhsvrsfijomsyjhsfbhvsbqisjovrsgdqc.

“Arr ,”shqjesHvnff,siqgjedcsdjtvjomsqsiqvybisibeejhysurihbdsvrsyjh
urnvy,s“ero’vscrnsvyjo svyjhshvbq sjhsiqvybisrzbierob?sCrn’zbsfbbo
fbqvjomsvyjhshvbq svrrsunay,sarr ;sjv’hsvrrsvboebi.sEro’vsJsqdpqchshqc
vyqvsvrsfbsmrre,sqspyqdb-hvbq sunhvsfbsvrnmy?sVybibsqibsvyrhbshyqi h
orpsrzbisvybshjeb,sero’vscrnshbbsvybcsgibtbisjvsvrnmysqoesiqib?sPyqvsq
hyjoecsvybcsqibs ja jomsng!sArr ,smrsqoesvqd svrs’bu;svbdds’busvybcsqib
pbdarubsvrsybdgsvybuhbdzbhsajzjddc,sqoesjosurebiqvjro,sfnvsvybcsunhv
 bbgslnjbv.sFdqhvsub,sjtsJsaqosybqisucsrposzrjab.sQpqc,sarr ,sqoe
ebdjzbisucsubhhqmb.sYbib,svq bsvyjhsdqovbio,”shoqvayjomsrobstirusyjh
hjebfrqie;s“orpsvybo,smrsqoesgibqaysvrs’bu!”

Hnddbodcsvq jomsvybsrttbibesdqovbio,srdesTdbbabsdjugbesqairhhsvybseba 
vrsvybsfndpqi h;sqoesvybo,spjvysrobsyqoeseirggjomsyjhsdjmyvsdrpsrzbi
vybshbq,shrsqhsvrsmbvsqsmrreszjbpsrtsyjhsaromibmqvjro,spjvysvybsrvybi
yqoesybshrdbuodcstdrnijhybesyjhsvromh,sqoesdbqojomstqisrzbisvybshjebsjo
qsunufdjomszrjabsfbmqosqeeibhhjomsvybshyqi h,spyjdbsHvnff,shrtvdc
aiqpdjomsfbyjoe,srzbiybqiesqddsvyqvspqhshqje.

“Tbddrp-aijvvbih:sJ’hbsriebibesybibsvrshqcseqvscrnsunhvshvrgseqvsequ
orjhbseqib.sCrnsybqi?sHvrgseqvsequshuqa jo’srfsebsdjg!sUqhhqsHvnffshqc
eqvscrnsaqostjddscrnisequsfbddjbhsngsvrsebsyqvayjomh,sfnvsfcsMri!scrn
unhvshvrgseqvsequsiqa bv!”

“Arr ,”sybibsjovbigrhbesHvnff,sqaarugqocjomsvybspriespjvysqshneeboshdqg
rosvybshyrndebi,—“Arr !spyc,sequoscrnisbcbh,scrnsunhvo’vshpbqisvyqvspqc
pyboscrn’ibsgibqayjom.sVyqv’hsorspqcsvrsarozbivshjoobih,sarr !”

“Pyrseqv?sEbosgibqaysvrsyjuscrnihbdt,”shnddbodcsvniojomsvrsmr.

“Or,sarr ;smrsro,smrsro.”

“Pbdd,sebo,sFbdnfbestbddrp-aijvvbih:”—

“Ijmyv!”sbxadqjubesHvnff,sqggirzjomdc,s“arqxs’busvrsjv;svicsvyqv,”sqoe
Tdbbabsarovjonbe.

“Erscrnsjhsqddshyqi h,sqoesfcsoqvnispbicspriqajrnh,scbvsJswqcsvrscrn,
tbddrp-aijvvbih,seqvseqvspriqajrnhobhh—’vrgseqvsequshdqggjo’srfseb
vqjd!sYrpscrnsvjo svrsybqi,shgrhbscrns bbgsngshnaysqsequshdqggjo’sqoe
fjvjo’seqib?”

“Arr ,”saijbesHvnff,sarddqijomsyju,s“Jspro’vsyqzbsvyqvshpbqijom.sVqd 
vrs’busmbovdbuqodc.”

Roabsuribsvybshbiurosgirabbebe.

“Crnispriqajrnhobhh,stbddrp-aijvvbih,sJsero’vsfdqubscbshrsunaystri;seqv
jhsoqvni,sqoesaqo’vsfbsybdgbe;sfnvsvrsmrfbioseqvspja besoqvni,seqvsjh
ebsgjov.sCrnsjhshyqi h,shqivjo;sfnvsjtscrnsmrfbiosebshyqi sjoscrn,spyc
eboscrnsfbsqombd;strisqddsqombdsjhsorv’jomsuribseqosebshyqi spbdd
mrfbiobe.sOrp,sdrr sybib,sfibe’ibo,sknhvsvicsprohvsvrsfbsajfjd,sq
ybdgjomscrnihbdfhstiruseqvspyqdb.sEro’vsfbsvbqijo’sebsfdnffbisrnvscrni
objmyfrni’hsurnv,sJshqc.sJhsorvsrobshyqi serresijmyvsqhsvrebisvrseqv
pyqdb?sQoe,sfcsMri,sorobsroscrnsyqhsebsijmyvsvrseqvspyqdb;seqvspyqdb
fbdromsvrshrubsrobsbdhb.sJs orpshrubsr’scrnsyqhsfbiicsfijmsurnv,
fijmmbiseqosrebih;sfnvsebosebsfijmsurnvhshrubvjubhsyqhsebshuqdd
fbddjbh;shrseqvsebsfijmobhhsrtsebsurnvsjhsorvsvrshpqddbispje,sfnvsvr
fjvsrttsebsfdnffbistrisebshuqddsticsrfshyqi h,seqvsaqo’vsmbvsjovrseb
hairnmbsvrsybdgsebuhbdzbh.”

“Pbddserob,srdesTdbbab!”saijbesHvnff,s“vyqv’hsAyijhvjqojvc;smrsro.”

“Orsnhbsmrjo’sro;sebsequspjddqjohspjdds bbgsqsharnmjo’sqoeshdqggjo’
bqaysrebi,sUqhhqsHvnff;sebcsero’vsybqisrobsprie;sorsnhbsq-gibqayjo’svr
hnaysequsm’nvvrohsqhscrnsaqdds’bu,svjddseqibsfbddjbhsjhstndd,sqoeseqib
fbddjbhsjhsfrvvrudbhh;sqoespybosebcsersmbvs’bustndd,sebcsprovsybqiscrn
ebo;strisebosebcshjo sjosebshbq,smrstqhvsvrshdbbgsrosebsariqd,sqoe
aqo’vsybqisorv’jomsqvsqdd,sorsurib,strisbfbisqoesbfbi.”

“Ngrosucshrnd,sJsqusqfrnvsrtsvybshqubsrgjojro;shrsmjzbsvybsfbobejavjro,
Tdbbab,sqoesJ’ddsqpqcsvrsucshnggbi.”

Ngrosvyjh,sTdbbab,syrdejomsfrvysyqoehsrzbisvybstjhycsurf,siqjhbesyjh
hyijddszrjab,sqoesaijbe—

“Anhhbestbddrp-aijvvbih!s ja sngsebsequoebhvsirpsqhsbzbiscrnsaqo;stjdd
crnisequ’sfbddjbhs’vjddsebcsfnhv—qoesebosejb.”

“Orp,sarr ,”shqjesHvnff,sibhnujomsyjhshnggbisqvsvybsaqghvqo;s“hvqoe
knhvspybibscrnshvrresfbtrib,svybib,srzbisqmqjohvsub,sqoesgqcsgqivjandqi
qvvbovjro.”

“Qddsebovjro,”shqjesTdbbab,sqmqjoshvrrgjomsrzbisngrosyjhsvromhsjosvyb
ebhjibesgrhjvjro.

“Pbdd,”shqjesHvnff,sybdgjomsyjuhbdtstibbdcsubqopyjdb;s“Jshyqddsorpsmr
fqa svrsvybshnfkbavsrtsvyjhshvbq .sJosvybstjihvsgdqab,syrpsrdesqibscrn,
arr ?”

“Pyqvseqvserspjesebs’vbq ,”shqjesvybsrdesfdqa ,svbhvjdc.

“Hjdboab!sYrpsrdesqibscrn,sarr ?”

“’Frnvsojobvc,sebcshqc,”sybsmdrrujdcsunvvbibe.

“Qoescrnsyqzbsdjzbesjosvyjhspridesyqiesngrosrobsynoeibescbqih,sarr ,
qoesero’vs orpscbvsyrpsvrsarr sqspyqdb-hvbq ?”siqgjedcsfrdvjomsqorvybi
urnvytndsqvsvybsdqhvsprie,shrsvyqvsurihbdshbbubesqsarovjonqvjrosrtsvyb
lnbhvjro.s“Pybibspbibscrnsfrio,sarr ?”

“’Yjoesebsyqvaypqc,sjostbiic-frqv,smrjo’srfbisebsIrqor b.”

“Friosjosqstbiic-frqv!sVyqv’hslnbbi,svrr.sFnvsJspqovsvrs orpspyqv
arnovicscrnspbibsfriosjo,sarr !”

“Ejeo’vsJshqcsebsIrqor bsarnovic?”sybsaijbeshyqigdc.

“Or,scrnsejeo’v,sarr ;sfnvsJ’ddsvbddscrnspyqvsJ’usarujomsvr,sarr .sCrn
unhvsmrsyrubsqoesfbsfriosrzbisqmqjo;scrnsero’vs orpsyrpsvrsarr sq
pyqdb-hvbq scbv.”

“Fibhhsucshrnd,sjtsJsarr sorebisrob,”sybsmirpdbe,sqomijdc,svniojom
irnoesvrsebgqiv.

“Arubsfqa ,sarr ;—ybib,syqoesubsvyrhbsvromh;—orpsvq bsvyqvsfjvsrtshvbq 
vybib,sqoesvbddsubsjtscrnsvyjo svyqvshvbq sarr besqhsjvshyrndesfb?sVq b
jv,sJshqc”—yrdejomsvybsvromhsvrpqiehsyju—“vq bsjv,sqoesvqhvbsjv.”

Tqjovdcshuqa jomsyjhspjvybibesdjghsrzbisjvstrisqsurubov,svybsrdesobmir
unvvbibe,s“Fbhvsarr bes’vbq sJsbfbisvqhvb;skrrhc,sfbiicskrrhc.”

“Arr ,”shqjesHvnff,shlnqijomsyjuhbdtsroabsurib;s“erscrnsfbdromsvrsvyb
ayniay?”

“GqhhbesrobsroabsjosAqgb-Erpo,”shqjesvybsrdesuqoshnddbodc.

“QoescrnsyqzbsroabsjoscrnisdjtbsgqhhbesqsyrdcsayniaysjosAqgb-Vrpo,
pybibscrnsernfvdbhhsrzbiybqiesqsyrdcsgqihrosqeeibhhjomsyjhsybqibihsqh
yjhsfbdrzbestbddrp-aibqvnibh,syqzbscrn,sarr !sQoescbvscrnsarubsybib,
qoesvbddsubshnaysqseibqetndsdjbsqhscrnsejesknhvsorp,sby?”shqjesHvnff.
“Pybibserscrnsbxgbavsvrsmrsvr,sarr ?”

“Mrsvrsfbesfbiicshrro,”sybsunufdbe,syqdt-vniojomsqhsybshgr b.

“Qzqhv!sybqzbsvr!sJsubqospyboscrnsejb,sarr .sJv’hsqosqptndslnbhvjro.
Orpspyqv’hscrnisqohpbi?”

“Pybosejhsrdesfiqa suqosejbh,”shqjesvybsobmirshdrpdc,sayqomjomsyjh
pyrdbsqjisqoesebubqori,s“ybsyjhhbdtspro’vsmrsorpybib;sfnvshrubsfibhhbe
qombdspjddsarubsqoestbvaysyju.”

“Tbvaysyju?sYrp?sJosqsarqaysqoestrni,sqhsvybcstbvaybesBdjkqy?sQoestbvay
yjuspybib?”

“Ngsebib,”shqjesTdbbab,syrdejomsyjhsvromhshviqjmyvsrzbisyjhsybqe,sqoe
 bbgjomsjvsvybibszbicshrdbuodc.

“Hr,svybo,scrnsbxgbavsvrsmrsngsjovrsrnisuqjo-vrg,serscrn,sarr ,spybo
crnsqibsebqe?sFnvsero’vscrns orpsvybsyjmybiscrnsadjuf,svybsardebisjv
mbvh?sUqjo-vrg,sby?”

“Ejeo’vshqcseqvsv’qdd,”shqjesTdbbab,sqmqjosjosvybshnd h.

“Crnshqjesngsvybib,sejeo’vscrn?sqoesorpsdrr scrnihbdt,sqoeshbbspybib
crnisvromhsqibsgrjovjom.sFnv,sgbiyqghscrnsbxgbavsvrsmbvsjovrsybqzbosfc
aiqpdjomsvyirnmysvybsdnffbi’hsyrdb,sarr ;sfnv,sor,sor,sarr ,scrnsero’v
mbvsvybib,sbxabgvscrnsmrsvybsibmndqispqc,sirnoesfcsvybsijmmjom.sJv’hsq
vja djhysfnhjobhh,sfnvsunhvsfbserob,srisbdhbsjv’hsorsmr.sFnvsorobsrtsnh
qibsjosybqzboscbv.sEirgscrnisvromh,sarr ,sqoesybqisucsriebih.sErscb
ybqi?sYrdescrnisyqvsjosrobsyqoe,sqoesadqgsv’rvybisq’vrgsrtscrnisybqiv,
pybosJ’usmjzjomsucsriebih,sarr .sPyqv!svyqvscrnisybqiv,svybib?—vyqv’h
crnismjwwqie!sQdrtv!sqdrtv!—vyqv’hsjv—orpscrnsyqzbsjv.sYrdesjvsvybib
orp,sqoesgqcsqvvbovjro.”

“Qdds’ebovjro,”shqjesvybsrdesfdqa ,spjvysfrvysyqoehsgdqabesqhsebhjibe,
zqjodcspijmmdjomsyjhsmijwwdbesybqe,sqhsjtsvrsmbvsfrvysbqihsjostirovsqv
robsqoesvybshqubsvjub.

“Pbddsvybo,sarr ,scrnshbbsvyjhspyqdb-hvbq srtscrnihspqhshrszbicsfqe,
vyqvsJsyqzbsgnvsjvsrnvsrtshjmyvsqhshrrosqhsgrhhjfdb;scrnshbbsvyqv,
ero’vscrn?sPbdd,strisvybstnvnib,spyboscrnsarr sqorvybispyqdb-hvbq stri
ucsgijzqvbsvqfdbsybib,svybsaqghvqo,sJ’ddsvbddscrnspyqvsvrsershrsqhsorv
vrshgrjdsjvsfcsrzbierjom.sYrdesvybshvbq sjosrobsyqoe,sqoeshyrpsqsdjzb
arqdsvrsjvspjvysvybsrvybi;svyqvserob,sejhysjv;se’cbsybqi?sQoesorp
vr-uriirp,sarr ,spybospbsqibsanvvjomsjosvybstjhy,sfbshnibscrnshvqoesfc
vrsmbvsvybsvjghsrtsyjhstjoh;syqzbsvybusgnvsjosgja db.sQhstrisvybsboeh
rtsvybstdn bh,syqzbsvybushrnhbe,sarr .sVybib,sorpscbsuqcsmr.”

FnvsTdbbabsyqesyqiedcsmrvsvyibbsgqabhsrtt,spybosybspqhsibaqddbe.

“Arr ,smjzbsubsanvdbvhstrishnggbisvr-uriirpsojmyvsjosvybsuje-pqvay.
E’cbsybqi?sqpqcscrnshqjd,svybo.—Yqddrq!shvrg!suq bsqsfrpsfbtribscrn
mr.—Qzqhvsybqzjomsqmqjo!sPyqdb-fqddhstrisfibq tqhv—ero’vstrimbv.”

“Pjhy,sfcsmri!spyqdbsbqvsyju,s’hvbqesrtsyjusbqvspyqdb.sJ’usfibhhbesjt
ybsqjo’vsuribsrtshyqi seqosUqhhqsHyqi syjhhbdt,”sunvvbibesvybsrdesuqo,
djugjomsqpqc;spjvyspyjayshqmbsbkqandqvjrosybspbovsvrsyjhsyquura .


AYQGVBIs65.sVybsPyqdbsqhsqsEjhy.

Vyqvsurivqdsuqoshyrndestbbesngrosvybsaibqvnibsvyqvstbbehsyjhsdqug,sqoe,
dj bsHvnff,sbqvsyjusfcsyjhsrposdjmyv,sqhscrnsuqcshqc;svyjhshbbuhshr
rnvdqoejhysqsvyjomsvyqvsrobsunhvsobbehsmrsqsdjvvdbsjovrsvybsyjhvricsqoe
gyjdrhrgycsrtsjv.

Jvsjhsngrosibarie,svyqvsvyibbsabovnijbhsqmrsvybsvromnbsrtsvybsIjmyv
PyqdbspqhsbhvbbubesqsmibqvsebdjaqacsjosTiqoab,sqoesaruuqoebesdqimb
gijabhsvybib.sQdhr,svyqvsjosYboicsZJJJvy’hsvjub,sqsabivqjosarr srtsvyb
arnivsrfvqjobesqsyqoehrubsibpqiestrisjozbovjomsqosqeujiqfdbshqnabsvrsfb
bqvbospjvysfqifqanbesgrigrjhbh,spyjay,scrnsibubufbi,sqibsqshgbajbhsrt
pyqdb.sGrigrjhbh,sjoebbe,sqibsvrsvyjhseqcsarohjebibestjobsbqvjom.sVyb
ubqvsjhsuqebsjovrsfqddhsqfrnvsvybshjwbsrtsfjddjqiesfqddh,sqoesfbjom
pbddshbqhrobesqoeshgjabesujmyvsfbsvq bostrisvnivdb-fqddhsriszbqdsfqddh.
Vybsrdesuro hsrtsEnotbiudjobspbibszbicstroesrtsvybu.sVybcsyqesqsmibqv
grigrjhbsmiqovstirusvybsairpo.

Vybstqavsjh,svyqvsquromsyjhsynovbihsqvsdbqhv,svybspyqdbsprndesfcsqdd
yqoehsfbsarohjebibesqsorfdbsejhy,spbibsvybibsorvshrsunaysrtsyju;sfnv
pyboscrnsarubsvrshjvserposfbtribsqsubqv-gjbsobqidcsrobsynoeibestbbv
drom,sjvsvq bhsqpqcscrnisqggbvjvb.sRodcsvybsurhvsnogibknejabesrtsubo
dj bsHvnff,sorpqeqchsgqivq bsrtsarr bespyqdbh;sfnvsvybsBhlnjuqnxsqib
orvshrstqhvjejrnh.sPbsqdds orpsyrpsvybcsdjzbsngrospyqdbh,sqoesyqzbsiqib
rdeszjovqmbhsrtsgijubsrdesviqjosrjd.sWrmiqoeq,srobsrtsvybjisurhvstqurnh
eravrih,sibaruuboehshvijghsrtsfdnffbistrisjotqovh,sqhsfbjomsbxabbejomdc
knjacsqoesornijhyjom.sQoesvyjhsibujoehsubsvyqvsabivqjosBomdjhyubo,spyr
dromsqmrspbibsqaajebovqddcsdbtvsjosMibbodqoesfcsqspyqdjomszbhhbd—vyqv
vybhbsubosqavnqddcsdjzbestrishbzbiqdsurovyhsrosvybsurndecshaiqghsrt
pyqdbhspyjaysyqesfbbosdbtvsqhyribsqtvbisvicjomsrnvsvybsfdnffbi.sQurom
vybsEnvayspyqdbubosvybhbshaiqghsqibsaqddbes“tijvvbih”;spyjay,sjoebbe,
vybcsmibqvdcsibhbufdb,sfbjomsfirposqoesaijhg,sqoeshubddjomshrubvyjom
dj bsrdesQuhvbiequsyrnhbpjzbh’sernmy-onvhsrisrdc-arr h,spybostibhy.
Vybcsyqzbshnaysqosbqvqfdbsdrr svyqvsvybsurhvshbdt-ebocjomshviqombisaqo
yqiedcs bbgsyjhsyqoehsrtt.

Fnvspyqvstnivybisebgibajqvbhsvybspyqdbsqhsqsajzjdjwbesejhy,sjhsyjh
bxabbejomsijayobhh.sYbsjhsvybsmibqvsgijwbsrxsrtsvybshbq,svrrstqvsvrsfb
ebdjaqvbdcsmrre.sDrr sqvsyjhsynug,spyjaysprndesfbsqhstjobsbqvjomsqhsvyb
fnttqdr’hs(pyjaysjhsbhvbbubesqsiqibsejhy),spbibsjvsorvshnaysqshrdje
gciqujesrtstqv.sFnvsvybshgbiuqabvjsjvhbdt,syrpsfdqoesqoesaibqucsvyqv
jh;sdj bsvybsviqohgqibov,syqdt-kbddjbe,spyjvbsubqvsrtsqsararqonvsjosvyb
vyjiesurovysrtsjvhsmirpvy,scbvstqisvrrsijaysvrshnggdcsqshnfhvjvnvbstri
fnvvbi.sObzbivybdbhh,suqocspyqdbubosyqzbsqsubvyresrtsqfhrifjomsjvsjovr
hrubsrvybishnfhvqoab,sqoesvybosgqivq jomsrtsjv.sJosvybsdromsvicspqvaybh
rtsvybsojmyvsjvsjhsqsaruurosvyjomstrisvybshbqubosvrsejgsvybji
hyjg-fjhanjvsjovrsvybsynmbsrjd-grvhsqoesdbvsvybusticsvybibsqpyjdb.sUqoc
qsmrreshnggbisyqzbsJsvynhsuqeb.

JosvybsaqhbsrtsqshuqddsHgbiusPyqdbsvybsfiqjohsqibsqaarnovbesqstjob
ejhy.sVybsaqh bvsrtsvybsh nddsjhsfir bosjovrspjvysqosqxb,sqoesvybsvpr
gdnug,spyjvjhysdrfbhsfbjomspjvyeiqpos(gibajhbdcsibhbufdjomsvprsdqimb
gneejomh),svybcsqibsvybosujxbespjvystdrni,sqoesarr besjovrsqsurhv
ebdbavqfdbsubhh,sjostdqzrishrubpyqvsibhbufdjomsaqdzbh’sybqe,spyjaysjh
lnjvbsqsejhysquromshrubsbgjanibh;sqoesbzbicsrobs orphsvyqvshrubscrnom
fna hsquromsvybsbgjanibh,sfcsarovjonqddcsejojomsngrosaqdzbh’sfiqjoh,sfc
qoesfcsmbvsvrsyqzbsqsdjvvdbsfiqjohsrtsvybjisrpo,shrsqhsvrsfbsqfdbsvr
vbddsqsaqdt’hsybqestirusvybjisrposybqeh;spyjay,sjoebbe,siblnjibh
noaruurosejhaijujoqvjro.sQoesvyqvsjhsvybsibqhrospycsqscrnomsfna spjvy
qosjovbddjmbovsdrr jomsaqdt’hsybqesfbtribsyju,sjhshrubyrpsrobsrtsvyb
hqeebhvshjmyvhscrnsaqoshbb.sVybsybqesdrr hsqshrivsrtsibgirqaytnddcsqv
yju,spjvysqos“BvsvnsFinvb!”sbxgibhhjro.

Jvsjhsorv,sgbiyqgh,sbovjibdcsfbaqnhbsvybspyqdbsjhshrsbxabhhjzbdc
noavnrnhsvyqvsdqoehuboshbbusvrsibmqiesvybsbqvjomsrtsyjuspjvy
qfyriiboab;svyqvsqggbqihsvrsibhndv,sjoshrubspqc,stirusvybsarohjebiqvjro
fbtribsubovjrobe:s_j.b._svyqvsqsuqoshyrndesbqvsqsobpdcsuniebibesvyjom
rtsvybshbq,sqoesbqvsjvsvrrsfcsjvhsrposdjmyv.sFnvsorsernfvsvybstjihvsuqo
vyqvsbzbisuniebibesqosrxspqhsibmqiebesqhsqsuniebibi;sgbiyqghsybspqh
ynom;sqoesjtsybsyqesfbbosgnvsrosyjhsvijqdsfcsrxbo,sybsabivqjodcsprnde
yqzbsfbbo;sqoesybsabivqjodcsebhbizbesjvsjtsqocsuniebibiserbh.sMrsvrsvyb
ubqv-uqi bvsrtsqsHqvnieqcsojmyvsqoeshbbsvybsairpehsrtsdjzbsfjgbeh
hvqijomsngsqvsvybsdromsirphsrtsebqeslnqeingbeh.sErbhsorvsvyqvshjmyv
vq bsqsvrrvysrnvsrtsvybsaqoojfqd’hskqp?sAqoojfqdh?spyrsjhsorvsq
aqoojfqd?sJsvbddscrnsjvspjddsfbsuribsvrdbiqfdbstrisvybsTbkbbsvyqv
hqdvbeserposqsdbqosujhhjroqicsjosyjhsabddqisqmqjohvsqsarujomstqujob;sjv
pjddsfbsuribsvrdbiqfdbstrisvyqvsgirzjebovsTbkbb,sJshqc,sjosvybseqcsrt
knemubov,svyqostrisvybb,sajzjdjwbesqoesbodjmyvbobesmrniuqoe,spyr
oqjdbhvsmbbhbsvrsvybsmirnoesqoestbqhvbhvsrosvybjisfdrqvbesdjzbihsjosvyc
gqvé-eb-trjb-miqh.

FnvsHvnff,sybsbqvhsvybspyqdbsfcsjvhsrposdjmyv,serbhsyb?sqoesvyqvsjh
qeejomsjohndvsvrsjoknic,sjhsjv?sDrr sqvscrnis ojtb-yqoedb,svybib,suc
ajzjdjwbesqoesbodjmyvbobesmrniuqoesejojomsrttsvyqvsirqhvsfbbt,spyqvsjh
vyqvsyqoedbsuqebsrt?—pyqvsfnvsvybsfrobhsrtsvybsfirvybisrtsvybszbicsrx
crnsqibsbqvjom?sQoespyqvserscrnsgja scrnisvbbvyspjvy,sqtvbisebzrnijom
vyqvstqvsmrrhb?sPjvysqstbqvybisrtsvybshqubstrpd.sQoespjvyspyqvslnjdd
ejesvybsHbaibvqicsrtsvybsHrajbvcstrisvybsHnggibhhjrosrtsAinbdvcsvr
Mqoebihstriuqddcsjoejvbsyjhsajiandqih?sJvsjhsrodcspjvyjosvybsdqhvsurovy
risvprsvyqvsvyqvshrajbvcsgqhhbesqsibhrdnvjrosvrsgqvirojwbsorvyjomsfnv
hvbbdsgboh.


AYQGVBIs66.sVybsHyqi sUqhhqaib.

PybosjosvybsHrnvybiosTjhybic,sqsaqgvnibesHgbiusPyqdb,sqtvbisdromsqoe
pbqicsvrjd,sjhsfirnmyvsqdromhjebsdqvbsqvsojmyv,sjvsjhsorv,sqhsqsmbobiqd
vyjomsqvsdbqhv,sanhvruqicsvrsgirabbesqvsroabsvrsvybsfnhjobhhsrtsanvvjom
yjusjo.sTrisvyqvsfnhjobhhsjhsqosbxabbejomdcsdqfrijrnhsrob;sjhsorvszbic
hrrosarugdbvbe;sqoesiblnjibhsqddsyqoehsvrshbvsqfrnvsjv.sVybibtrib,svyb
aruurosnhqmbsjhsvrsvq bsjosqddshqjd;sdqhysvybsybdusq’dbb;sqoesvyboshboe
bzbicsrobsfbdrpsvrsyjhsyquura svjddseqcdjmyv,spjvysvybsibhbizqvjro
vyqv,snovjdsvyqvsvjub,sqoayri-pqvaybhshyqddsfbs bgv;svyqvsjh,svprsqoe
vprstrisqosyrni,sbqaysarngdb,svybsaibpsjosirvqvjroshyqddsurnovsvybseba 
vrshbbsvyqvsqddsmrbhspbdd.

Fnvshrubvjubh,sbhgbajqddcsngrosvybsDjobsjosvybsGqajtja,svyjhsgdqospjdd
orvsqohpbisqvsqdd;sfbaqnhbshnaysjoaqdandqfdbsyrhvhsrtshyqi hsmqvybi
irnoesvybsurribesaqiaqhb,svyqvspbibsybsdbtvshrstrishjxsyrnih,shqc,srosq
hvibvay,sdjvvdbsuribsvyqosvybsh bdbvrosprndesfbszjhjfdbsfcsuriojom.sJo
urhvsrvybisgqivhsrtsvybsrabqo,syrpbzbi,spybibsvybhbstjhysersorvshr
dqimbdcsqfrnoe,svybjisproeirnhszriqajvcsaqosfbsqvsvjubhsarohjebiqfdc
ejujojhybe,sfcszjmrirnhdcshvjiijomsvybusngspjvyshyqigspyqdjom-hgqebh,sq
girabenibsorvpjvyhvqoejom,spyjay,sjoshrubsjohvqoabh,srodcshbbuhsvr
vja dbsvybusjovrshvjddsmibqvbisqavjzjvc.sFnvsjvspqhsorvsvynhsjosvyb
gibhbovsaqhbspjvysvybsGblnre’hshyqi h;svyrnmy,svrsfbshnib,sqocsuqo
noqaanhvrubesvrshnayshjmyvh,svrsyqzbsdrr besrzbisybishjebsvyqvsojmyv,
prndesyqzbsqdurhvsvyrnmyvsvybspyrdbsirnoeshbqspqhsrobsynmbsaybbhb,sqoe
vyrhbshyqi hsvybsuqmmrvhsjosjv.

Obzbivybdbhh,sngrosHvnffshbvvjomsvybsqoayri-pqvaysqtvbisyjhshnggbispqh
aroadnebe;sqoespybo,sqaariejomdc,sLnbblnbmsqoesqstribaqhvdbshbquqosaqub
roseba ,sorshuqddsbxajvbubovspqhsaibqvbesquromsvybshyqi h;stri
juubejqvbdcshnhgboejomsvybsanvvjomshvqmbhsrzbisvybshjeb,sqoesdrpbijom
vyibbsdqovbioh,shrsvyqvsvybcsaqhvsdromsmdbquhsrtsdjmyvsrzbisvybsvnifje
hbq,svybhbsvprsuqijobih,seqivjomsvybjisdromspyqdjom-hgqebh,s bgvsngsqo
joabhhqovsuniebijomsrtsvybshyqi h,*sfcshvij jomsvybs bboshvbbdsebbg
jovrsvybjish nddh,shbbujomdcsvybjisrodcszjvqdsgqiv.sFnvsjosvybstrquc
arotnhjrosrtsvybjisujxbesqoeshvinmmdjomsyrhvh,svybsuqi hubosarndesorv
qdpqchsyjvsvybjisuqi ;sqoesvyjhsfirnmyvsqfrnvsobpsibzbdqvjrohsrtsvyb
joaibejfdbstbirajvcsrtsvybstrb.sVybcszjajrnhdcshoqggbe,sorvsrodcsqv
bqaysrvybi’hsejhbufrpbdubovh,sfnvsdj bstdbxjfdbsfrph,sfbovsirnoe,sqoe
fjvsvybjisrpo;svjddsvyrhbsboviqjdhshbbubeshpqddrpbesrzbisqoesrzbisqmqjo
fcsvybshqubsurnvy,svrsfbsrggrhjvbdcszrjebesfcsvybsmqgjomsprnoe.sOrispqh
vyjhsqdd.sJvspqhsnohqtbsvrsubeedbspjvysvybsarighbhsqoesmyrhvhsrtsvybhb
aibqvnibh.sQshrivsrtsmbobijasrisGqovybjhvjaszjvqdjvcshbbubesvrsdni sjo
vybjiszbicskrjovhsqoesfrobh,sqtvbispyqvsujmyvsfbsaqddbesvybsjoejzjenqd
djtbsyqesebgqivbe.s jddbesqoesyrjhvbesroseba strisvybshq bsrtsyjhsh jo,
robsrtsvybhbshyqi hsqdurhvsvrr sgrrisLnbblnbm’hsyqoesrtt,spybosybsvijbe
vrshynvserposvybsebqesdjesrtsyjhsuniebirnhskqp.

*Vybspyqdjom-hgqebsnhbestrisanvvjom-josjhsuqebsrtsvybszbicsfbhvshvbbd;
jhsqfrnvsvybsfjmobhhsrtsqsuqo’hshgibqesyqoe;sqoesjosmbobiqdshyqgb,
ariibhgroehsvrsvybsmqiebosjugdbubovsqtvbispyjaysjvsjhsoqube;srodcsjvh
hjebhsqibsgbitbavdcstdqv,sqoesjvhsnggbisboesarohjebiqfdcsoqiirpbisvyqo
vybsdrpbi.sVyjhspbqgrosjhsqdpqchs bgvsqhshyqigsqhsgrhhjfdb;sqoespybo
fbjomsnhbesjhsraaqhjroqddcsyrobe,sknhvsdj bsqsiqwri.sJosjvhshra bv,sq
hvjttsgrdb,stirusvpbovcsvrsvyjivcstbbvsdrom,sjhsjohbivbestrisqsyqoedb.

“Lnbblnbmsorsaqibspyqvsmresuqebsyjushyqi ,”shqjesvybshqzqmb,
qmrojwjomdcsdjtvjomsyjhsyqoesngsqoeserpo;s“pbeebisTbkbbsmresri
Oqovna bvsmre;sfnvsebsmrespqvsuqebshyqi sunhvsfbsrobsequsJomjo.”


AYQGVBIs67.sAnvvjomsJo.

JvspqhsqsHqvnieqcsojmyv,sqoeshnaysqsHqffqvysqhstrddrpbe!sBxsrttjajr
girtbhhrihsrtsHqffqvysfibq jomsqibsqddspyqdbubo.sVybsjzricsGblnrespqh
vniobesjovrspyqvshbbubesqshyqufdb;sbzbicshqjdrisqsfnvaybi.sCrnsprnde
yqzbsvyrnmyvspbspbibsrttbijomsngsvbosvyrnhqoesibesrxbosvrsvybshbqsmreh.

Josvybstjihvsgdqab,svybsboriurnhsanvvjomsvqa dbh,squromsrvybisgroebirnh
vyjomhsarugijhjomsqsadnhvbisrtsfdra hsmbobiqddcsgqjovbesmibbo,sqoe
pyjaysorshjomdbsuqosaqosgrhhjfdcsdjtv—vyjhszqhvsfnoaysrtsmiqgbhspqh
hpqcbesngsvrsvybsuqjo-vrgsqoestjiudcsdqhybesvrsvybsdrpbisuqhv-ybqe,svyb
hvirombhvsgrjovsqocpybibsqfrzbsqshyjg’hseba .sVybsboesrtsvyb
yqphbi-dj bsirgbspjoejomsvyirnmysvybhbsjovijaqajbh,spqhsvybosaroenavbe
vrsvybspjoedqhh,sqoesvybsynmbsdrpbisfdra srtsvybsvqa dbhspqhshpnomsrzbi
vybspyqdb;svrsvyjhsfdra svybsmibqvsfdnffbisyrr ,spbjmyjomshrubsrob
ynoeibesgrnoeh,spqhsqvvqaybe.sQoesorpshnhgboebesjoshvqmbhsrzbisvyb
hjeb,sHvqifna sqoesHvnff,svybsuqvbh,sqiubespjvysvybjisdromshgqebh,
fbmqosanvvjomsqsyrdbsjosvybsfrecstrisvybsjohbivjrosrtsvybsyrr sknhv
qfrzbsvybsobqibhvsrtsvybsvprshjeb-tjoh.sVyjhserob,sqsfirqe,
hbujajiandqisdjobsjhsanvsirnoesvybsyrdb,svybsyrr sjhsjohbivbe,sqoesvyb
uqjosfrecsrtsvybsaibpshvij jomsngsqspjdesayrinh,sorpsaruuboabsybqzjom
josrobsebohbsairpesqvsvybspjoedqhh.sPybosjohvqovdc,svybsbovjibshyjg
aqibbohsrzbisrosybishjeb;sbzbicsfrdvsjosybishvqivhsdj bsvybsoqjd-ybqeh
rtsqosrdesyrnhbsjostirhvcspbqvybi;shybsvibufdbh,slnjzbih,sqoesorehsybi
tijmyvbesuqhv-ybqehsvrsvybsh c.sUribsqoesuribshybsdbqohsrzbisvrsvyb
pyqdb,spyjdbsbzbicsmqhgjomsybqzbsrtsvybspjoedqhhsjhsqohpbibesfcsq
ybdgjomsybqzbstirusvybsfjddrph;svjddsqvsdqhv,sqshpjtv,shvqivdjomshoqg
jhsybqie;spjvysqsmibqvshpqhysvybshyjgsirddhsngpqiehsqoesfqa pqiehstiru
vybspyqdb,sqoesvybsvijnugyqovsvqa dbsijhbhsjovrshjmyvseiqmmjomsqtvbisjv
vybsejhbomqmbeshbujajiandqisboesrtsvybstjihvshvijgsrtsfdnffbi.sOrpsqh
vybsfdnffbisbozbdrgbhsvybspyqdbsgibajhbdcsqhsvybsijoeserbhsqosriqomb,
hrsjhsjvshvijggbesrttstirusvybsfrecsgibajhbdcsqhsqosriqombsjhshrubvjubh
hvijggbesfcshgjiqdjwjomsjv.sTrisvybshviqjosarohvqovdcs bgvsngsfcsvyb
pjoedqhhsarovjonqddcs bbghsvybspyqdbsirddjomsrzbisqoesrzbisjosvyb
pqvbi,sqoesqhsvybsfdnffbisjosrobshvijgsnojtriudcsgbbdhsrttsqdromsvyb
djobsaqddbesvybs“haqit,”shjundvqobrnhdcsanvsfcsvybshgqebhsrtsHvqifna 
qoesHvnff,svybsuqvbh;sqoesknhvsqhstqhvsqhsjvsjhsvynhsgbbdbesrtt,sqoe
joebbesfcsvyqvszbicsqavsjvhbdt,sjvsjhsqddsvybsvjubsfbjomsyrjhvbesyjmybi
qoesyjmybisqdrtvsvjddsjvhsnggbisboesmiqwbhsvybsuqjo-vrg;svybsubosqvsvyb
pjoedqhhsvybosabqhbsybqzjom,sqoestrisqsurubovsrisvprsvybsgirejmjrnh
fdrre-eijggjomsuqhhshpqchsvrsqoestirsqhsjtsdbvserpostirusvybsh c,sqoe
bzbicsrobsgibhbovsunhvsvq bsmrresybbesvrserembsjvspybosjvshpjomh,sbdhb
jvsuqcsfrxsyjhsbqihsqoesgjvaysyjusybqedromsrzbifrqie.

Robsrtsvybsqvvboejomsyqigrrobbihsorpsqezqoabhspjvysqsdrom,s bbospbqgro
aqddbesqsfrqiejom-hprie,sqoespqvayjomsyjhsayqoabsybsebxvbirnhdcshdjabh
rnvsqsarohjebiqfdbsyrdbsjosvybsdrpbisgqivsrtsvybshpqcjomsuqhh.sJovr
vyjhsyrdb,svybsboesrtsvybshbaroesqdvbioqvjomsmibqvsvqa dbsjhsvybo
yrr beshrsqhsvrsibvqjosqsyrdesngrosvybsfdnffbi,sjosriebisvrsgibgqibstri
pyqvstrddrph.sPybibngro,svyjhsqaarugdjhybeshpriehuqo,spqiojomsqddsyqoeh
vrshvqoesrtt,sroabsuribsuq bhsqshajbovjtjaseqhysqvsvybsuqhh,sqoespjvysq
tbpshjebdrom,sebhgbiqvb,sdnomjomshdjajomh,shbzbihsjvsarugdbvbdcsjo
vpqjo;shrsvyqvspyjdbsvybshyrivsdrpbisgqivsjhshvjddstqhv,svybsdromsnggbi
hvijg,saqddbesqsfdqo bv-gjbab,shpjomhsadbqi,sqoesjhsqddsibqecstri
drpbijom.sVybsybqzbihstripqiesorpsibhnubsvybjishrom,sqoespyjdbsvybsrob
vqa dbsjhsgbbdjomsqoesyrjhvjomsqshbaroeshvijgstirusvybspyqdb,svybsrvybi
jhshdrpdcshdqa bobesqpqc,sqoeserposmrbhsvybstjihvshvijgsvyirnmysvyb
uqjosyqvaypqcsijmyvsfbobqvy,sjovrsqosnotniojhybesgqidrisaqddbesvyb
fdnffbi-irru.sJovrsvyjhsvpjdjmyvsqgqivubovshnoeicsojufdbsyqoehs bbg
arjdjomsqpqcsvybsdromsfdqo bv-gjbabsqhsjtsjvspbibsqsmibqvsdjzbsuqhhsrt
gdqjvbeshbigbovh.sQoesvynhsvybspri sgirabbeh;svybsvprsvqa dbhsyrjhvjom
qoesdrpbijomshjundvqobrnhdc;sfrvyspyqdbsqoespjoedqhhsybqzjom,svyb
ybqzbihshjomjom,svybsfdnffbi-irrusmbovdbubosarjdjom,svybsuqvbh
haqitjom,svybshyjgshviqjojom,sqoesqddsyqoehshpbqijomsraaqhjroqddc,sfc
pqcsrtsqhhnqmjomsvybsmbobiqdstijavjro.


AYQGVBIs68.sVybsFdqo bv.

Jsyqzbsmjzbosorshuqddsqvvbovjrosvrsvyqvsorvsnozbxbeshnfkbav,svybsh jo
rtsvybspyqdb.sJsyqzbsyqesarovirzbihjbhsqfrnvsjvspjvysbxgbijboabe
pyqdbubosqtdrqv,sqoesdbqiobesoqvniqdjhvhsqhyrib.sUcsrijmjoqdsrgjojro
ibuqjohsnoayqombe;sfnvsjvsjhsrodcsqosrgjojro.

Vybslnbhvjrosjh,spyqvsqoespybibsjhsvybsh josrtsvybspyqdb?sQdibqecscrn
 orpspyqvsyjhsfdnffbisjh.sVyqvsfdnffbisjhshrubvyjomsrtsvybsarohjhvboab
rtstjiu,sadrhb-miqjobesfbbt,sfnvsvrnmybi,suribsbdqhvjasqoesarugqav,sqoe
iqombhstirusbjmyvsrisvbosvrsvpbdzbsqoestjtvbbosjoaybhsjosvyja obhh.

Orp,syrpbzbisgibgrhvbirnhsjvsuqcsqvstjihvshbbusvrsvqd srtsqoc
aibqvnib’hsh josqhsfbjomsrtsvyqvshrivsrtsarohjhvboabsqoesvyja obhh,scbv
josgrjovsrtstqavsvybhbsqibsorsqimnubovhsqmqjohvshnaysqsgibhnugvjro;
fbaqnhbscrnsaqoorvsiqjhbsqocsrvybisebohbsbozbdrgjomsdqcbistirusvyb
pyqdb’hsfrecsfnvsvyqvshqubsfdnffbi;sqoesvybsrnvbiurhvsbozbdrgjomsdqcbi
rtsqocsqojuqd,sjtsibqhroqfdcsebohb,spyqvsaqosvyqvsfbsfnvsvybsh jo?
Vinb,stirusvybsnouqiibesebqesfrecsrtsvybspyqdb,scrnsuqcshaiqgbsrttspjvy
crnisyqoesqosjotjojvbdcsvyjo,sviqohgqibovshnfhvqoab,shrubpyqv
ibhbufdjomsvybsvyjoobhvshyibehsrtsjhjomdqhh,srodcsjvsjhsqdurhvsqh
tdbxjfdbsqoeshrtvsqhshqvjo;svyqvsjh,sgibzjrnhsvrsfbjomseijbe,spybosjv
orvsrodcsaroviqavhsqoesvyja boh,sfnvsfbarubhsiqvybisyqiesqoesfijvvdb.sJ
yqzbshbzbiqdshnayseijbesfjvh,spyjaysJsnhbstrisuqi hsjosucspyqdb-frr h.
Jvsjhsviqohgqibov,sqhsJshqjesfbtrib;sqoesfbjomsdqjesngrosvybsgijovbe
gqmb,sJsyqzbshrubvjubhsgdbqhbesuchbdtspjvystqoacjomsjvsbxbivbesq
uqmojtcjomsjotdnboab.sQvsqocsiqvb,sjvsjhsgdbqhqovsvrsibqesqfrnvspyqdbh
vyirnmysvybjisrposhgbavqadbh,sqhscrnsuqcshqc.sFnvspyqvsJsquseijzjomsqv
ybibsjhsvyjh.sVyqvshqubsjotjojvbdcsvyjo,sjhjomdqhhshnfhvqoab,spyjay,sJ
qeujv,sjozbhvhsvybsbovjibsfrecsrtsvybspyqdb,sjhsorvshrsunaysvrsfb
ibmqiebesqhsvybsh josrtsvybsaibqvnib,sqhsvybsh josrtsvybsh jo,shrsvr
hgbq ;strisjvspbibshjugdcsijejandrnhsvrshqc,svyqvsvybsgirgbish josrt
vybsvibuboernhspyqdbsjhsvyjoobisqoesuribsvboebisvyqosvybsh josrtsq
obp-friosayjde.sFnvsorsuribsrtsvyjh.

Qhhnujomsvybsfdnffbisvrsfbsvybsh josrtsvybspyqdb;svybo,spybosvyjhsh jo,
qhsjosvybsaqhbsrtsqszbicsdqimbsHgbiusPyqdb,spjddscjbdesvybsfnd srtsrob
ynoeibesfqiibdhsrtsrjd;sqoe,spybosjvsjhsarohjebibesvyqv,sjoslnqovjvc,
risiqvybispbjmyv,svyqvsrjd,sjosjvhsbxgibhhbeshvqvb,sjhsrodcsvyibb
trnivyh,sqoesorvsvybsbovjibshnfhvqoabsrtsvybsarqv;shrubsjebqsuqcsyboab
fbsyqesrtsvybsboriurnhobhhsrtsvyqvsqojuqvbesuqhh,sqsubibsgqivsrtspyrhb
ubibsjovbmnubovscjbdehshnaysqsdq bsrtsdjlnjesqhsvyqv.sIba rojomsvbo
fqiibdhsvrsvybsvro,scrnsyqzbsvbosvrohstrisvybsobvspbjmyvsrtsrodcsvyibb
lnqivbihsrtsvybshvnttsrtsvybspyqdb’hsh jo.

Josdjtb,svybszjhjfdbshnitqabsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsjhsorvsvybsdbqhvsqurom
vybsuqocsuqizbdhsybsgibhbovh.sQdurhvsjozqijqfdcsjvsjhsqddsrzbi
rfdjlnbdcsairhhbesqoesib-airhhbespjvysonufbidbhhshviqjmyvsuqi hsjo
vyja sqiiqc,shrubvyjomsdj bsvyrhbsjosvybstjobhvsJvqdjqosdjob
bomiqzjomh.sFnvsvybhbsuqi hsersorvshbbusvrsfbsjugibhhbesngrosvyb
jhjomdqhhshnfhvqoabsqfrzbsubovjrobe,sfnvshbbusvrsfbshbbosvyirnmysjv,sqh
jtsvybcspbibsbomiqzbesngrosvybsfrecsjvhbdt.sOrisjhsvyjhsqdd.sJoshrub
johvqoabh,svrsvybslnja ,srfhbizqovsbcb,svyrhbsdjobqisuqi h,sqhsjosq
zbijvqfdbsbomiqzjom,sfnvsqttriesvybsmirnoestristqisrvybisebdjobqvjroh.
Vybhbsqibsyjbirmdcgyjaqd;svyqvsjh,sjtscrnsaqddsvyrhbsuchvbijrnhsacgybih
rosvybspqddhsrtsgciqujehsyjbirmdcgyjah,svybosvyqvsjhsvybsgirgbispriesvr
nhbsjosvybsgibhbovsaroobxjro.sFcsucsibvbovjzbsuburicsrtsvyb
yjbirmdcgyjahsngrosrobsHgbiusPyqdbsjosgqivjandqi,sJspqhsunayshvina 
pjvysqsgdqvbsibgibhbovjomsvybsrdesJoejqosayqiqavbihsayjhbddbesrosvyb
tqurnhsyjbirmdcgyjasgqdjhqebhsrosvybsfqo hsrtsvybsNggbisUjhhjhhjggj.
Dj bsvyrhbsuchvjasira h,svrr,svybsuchvja-uqi bespyqdbsibuqjoh
noebajgybiqfdb.sVyjhsqddnhjrosvrsvybsJoejqosira hsibujoehsubsrtsqorvybi
vyjom.sFbhjebhsqddsvybsrvybisgyboruboqspyjaysvybsbxvbijrisrtsvybsHgbiu
Pyqdbsgibhbovh,sybsorvshbderusejhgdqchsvybsfqa ,sqoesuribsbhgbajqddc
yjhstdqo h,sbttqabesjosmibqvsgqivsrtsvybsibmndqisdjobqisqggbqiqoab,sfc
ibqhrosrtsonubirnhsinebshaiqvaybh,sqdvrmbvybisrtsqosjiibmndqi,siqoeru
qhgbav.sJshyrndeshqcsvyqvsvyrhbsObpsBomdqoesira hsrosvybshbq-arqhv,
pyjaysQmqhhjwsjuqmjobhsvrsfbqisvybsuqi hsrtszjrdbovshaiqgjomsarovqav
pjvyszqhvstdrqvjomsjabfbimh—Jshyrndeshqc,svyqvsvyrhbsira hsunhvsorvsq
djvvdbsibhbufdbsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsjosvyjhsgqivjandqi.sJvsqdhrshbbuhsvrsub
vyqvshnayshaiqvaybhsjosvybspyqdbsqibsgirfqfdcsuqebsfcsyrhvjdbsarovqav
pjvysrvybispyqdbh;strisJsyqzbsurhvsibuqi besvybusjosvybsdqimb,
tndd-mirposfnddhsrtsvybshgbajbh.

Qspriesrisvprsuribsaroabiojomsvyjhsuqvvbisrtsvybsh josrisfdnffbisrtsvyb
pyqdb.sJvsyqhsqdibqecsfbboshqje,svyqvsjvsjhshvijgvstirusyjusjosdrom
gjbabh,saqddbesfdqo bv-gjbabh.sDj bsurhvshbq-vbiuh,svyjhsrobsjhszbic
yqggcsqoeshjmojtjaqov.sTrisvybspyqdbsjhsjoebbespiqgvsngsjosyjhsfdnffbi
qhsjosqsibqdsfdqo bvsrisarnovbigqob;sri,shvjddsfbvvbi,sqosJoejqosgroayr
hdjgvsrzbisyjhsybqe,sqoesh jivjomsyjhsbxvibujvc.sJvsjhsfcsibqhrosrt
vyjhsarhcsfdqo bvjomsrtsyjhsfrec,svyqvsvybspyqdbsjhsboqfdbesvrs bbg
yjuhbdtsarutrivqfdbsjosqddspbqvybih,sjosqddshbqh,svjubh,sqoesvjebh.
PyqvsprndesfbarubsrtsqsMibbodqoespyqdb,shqc,sjosvyrhbshyneebijom,sjac
hbqhsrtsvybsOrivy,sjtsnohnggdjbespjvysyjhsarhcshnivrnv?sVinb,srvybi
tjhysqibstrnoesbxabbejomdcsfijh sjosvyrhbsYcgbifribqospqvbih;sfnv
vybhb,sfbsjvsrfhbizbe,sqibscrnisarde-fdrrebe,sdnomdbhhstjhy,spyrhbszbic
fbddjbhsqibsibtijmbiqvrih;saibqvnibh,svyqvspqiusvybuhbdzbhsnoebisvyb
dbbsrtsqosjabfbim,sqhsqsviqzbddbisjospjovbisprndesfqh sfbtribsqosjoo
tjib;spybibqh,sdj bsuqo,svybspyqdbsyqhsdnomhsqoespqiusfdrre.sTibbwbsyjh
fdrre,sqoesybsejbh.sYrpsproebitndsjhsjvsvybo—bxabgvsqtvbi
bxgdqoqvjro—vyqvsvyjhsmibqvsurohvbi,svrspyrusarigribqdspqiuvysjhsqh
joejhgbohqfdbsqhsjvsjhsvrsuqo;syrpsproebitndsvyqvsybshyrndesfbstrnoesqv
yrub,sjuubihbesvrsyjhsdjghstrisdjtbsjosvyrhbsQiavjaspqvbih!spybib,spybo
hbqubostqddsrzbifrqie,svybcsqibshrubvjubhstrnoe,surovyhsqtvbipqieh,
gbigboejandqidcstirwbosjovrsvybsybqivhsrtstjbdehsrtsjab,sqhsqstdcsjh
trnoesmdnbesjosqufbi.sFnvsuribshnigijhjomsjhsjvsvrs orp,sqhsyqhsfbbo
girzbesfcsbxgbijubov,svyqvsvybsfdrresrtsqsGrdqispyqdbsjhspqiubisvyqo
vyqvsrtsqsFriobrsobmirsjoshnuubi.

Jvserbhshbbusvrsub,svyqvsybibjospbshbbsvybsiqibszjivnbsrtsqshvirom
joejzjenqdszjvqdjvc,sqoesvybsiqibszjivnbsrtsvyja spqddh,sqoesvybsiqib
zjivnbsrtsjovbijrishgqajrnhobhh.sRy,suqo!sqeujibsqoesurebdsvychbdt
qtvbisvybspyqdb!sErsvyrn,svrr,sibuqjospqiusquromsjab.sErsvyrn,svrr,
djzbsjosvyjhspridespjvyrnvsfbjomsrtsjv.sFbsarrdsqvsvybsblnqvri;s bbg
vycsfdrrestdnjesqvsvybsGrdb.sDj bsvybsmibqvserubsrtsHv.sGbvbi’h,sqoe
dj bsvybsmibqvspyqdb,sibvqjo,sRsuqo!sjosqddshbqhrohsqsvbugbiqvnibsrt
vyjobsrpo.

Fnvsyrpsbqhcsqoesyrpsyrgbdbhhsvrsvbqaysvybhbstjobsvyjomh!sRtsbibavjroh,
yrpstbpsqibserubesdj bsHv.sGbvbi’h!srtsaibqvnibh,syrpstbpszqhvsqhsvyb
pyqdb!


AYQGVBIs69.sVybsTnobiqd.

“Yqndsjosvybsayqjoh!sDbvsvybsaqiaqhbsmrsqhvbio!”

Vybszqhvsvqa dbhsyqzbsorpserobsvybjisenvc.sVybsgbbdbespyjvbsfrecsrtsvyb
fbybqebespyqdbstdqhybhsdj bsqsuqifdbshbgndayib;svyrnmysayqombesjosynb,
jvsyqhsorvsgbiabgvjfdcsdrhvsqocvyjomsjosfnd .sJvsjhshvjddsardrhhqd.
Hdrpdcsjvstdrqvhsuribsqoesuribsqpqc,svybspqvbisirnoesjvsvriosqoe
hgdqhybesfcsvybsjohqvjqvbshyqi h,sqoesvybsqjisqfrzbszbxbespjvy
iqgqajrnhstdjmyvhsrtshaibqujomstrpdh,spyrhbsfbq hsqibsdj bshrsuqoc
johndvjomsgrojqiehsjosvybspyqdb.sVybszqhvspyjvbsybqedbhhsgyqovrustdrqvh
tnivybisqoestnivybistirusvybshyjg,sqoesbzbicsiresvyqvsjvshrstdrqvh,
pyqvshbbushlnqibsirrehsrtshyqi hsqoesanfjasirrehsrtstrpdh,sqnmubovsvyb
uniebirnhsejo.sTrisyrnihsqoesyrnihstirusvybsqdurhvshvqvjroqicshyjgsvyqv
yjebrnhshjmyvsjhshbbo.sFbobqvysvybsnoadrnebesqoesujdesqwnibsh c,sngro
vybstqjistqabsrtsvybsgdbqhqovshbq,spqtvbesfcsvybskrcrnhsfibbwbh,svyqv
mibqvsuqhhsrtsebqvystdrqvhsrosqoesro,svjddsdrhvsjosjotjojvb
gbihgbavjzbh.

Vybib’hsqsurhvserdbtndsqoesurhvsura jomstnobiqd!sVybshbq-zndvnibhsqdd
josgjrnhsurniojom,svybsqji-hyqi hsqddsgnoavjdjrnhdcsjosfdqa sri
hgba dbe.sJosdjtbsfnvstbpsrtsvybusprndesyqzbsybdgbesvybspyqdb,sJspbbo,
jtsgbiqezbovnibsybsyqesobbebesjv;sfnvsngrosvybsfqolnbvsrtsyjhstnobiqd
vybcsurhvsgjrnhdcsersgrnoab.sRy,syriijfdbszndvnibjhusrtsbqivy!stiru
pyjaysorvsvybsujmyvjbhvspyqdbsjhstibb.

Orisjhsvyjhsvybsboe.sEbhbaiqvbesqhsvybsfrecsjh,sqszbombtndsmyrhv
hnizjzbhsqoesyrzbihsrzbisjvsvrshaqib.sBhgjbesfcshrubsvjujesuqo-rt-pqi
risfdnoebijomsejharzbic-zbhhbdstirusqtqi,spybosvybsejhvqoabsrfhanijom
vybshpqiujomstrpdh,sobzbivybdbhhshvjddshyrphsvybspyjvbsuqhhstdrqvjomsjo
vybshno,sqoesvybspyjvbshgiqcsybqzjomsyjmysqmqjohvsjv;shviqjmyvpqcsvyb
pyqdb’hsnoyqiujomsarighb,spjvysvibufdjomstjombihsjhshbvserposjosvyb
drm—_hyrqdh,sira h,sqoesfibq bihsybibqfrnvh:sfbpqib!_sQoestriscbqih
qtvbipqieh,sgbiyqgh,shyjghshynosvybsgdqab;sdbqgjomsrzbisjvsqhshjddc
hybbgsdbqgsrzbisqszqannu,sfbaqnhbsvybjisdbqebisrijmjoqddcsdbqgbesvybib
pybosqshvja spqhsybde.sVybib’hscrnisdqpsrtsgibabebovh;svybib’hscrni
nvjdjvcsrtsviqejvjroh;svybib’hsvybshvricsrtscrnisrfhvjoqvbshnizjzqdsrt
rdesfbdjbthsobzbisfrvvrubesrosvybsbqivy,sqoesorpsorvsbzbosyrzbijomsjo
vybsqji!sVybib’hsrivyrerxc!

Vynh,spyjdbsjosdjtbsvybsmibqvspyqdb’hsfrecsuqcsyqzbsfbbosqsibqdsvbiiri
vrsyjhstrbh,sjosyjhsebqvysyjhsmyrhvsfbarubhsqsgrpbidbhhsgqojasvrsq
pride.

Qibscrnsqsfbdjbzbisjosmyrhvh,sucstijboe?sVybibsqibsrvybismyrhvhsvyqo
vybsAra -Dqobsrob,sqoestqisebbgbisubosvyqosEravrisKryohrospyrsfbdjbzb
josvybu.


AYQGVBIs70.sVybsHgycox.

Jvshyrndesorvsyqzbsfbbosrujvvbesvyqvsgibzjrnhsvrsarugdbvbdcshvijggjom
vybsfrecsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqo,sybspqhsfbybqebe.sOrp,svybsfbybqejomsrtsvyb
HgbiusPyqdbsjhsqshajbovjtjasqoqvrujaqdstbqv,sngrospyjaysbxgbijboabe
pyqdbshnimbrohszbicsunaysgijebsvybuhbdzbh:sqoesorvspjvyrnvsibqhro.

Arohjebisvyqvsvybspyqdbsyqhsorvyjomsvyqvsaqosgirgbidcsfbsaqddbesqsoba ;
rosvybsaroviqic,spybibsyjhsybqesqoesfrecshbbusvrskrjo,svybib,sjosvyqv
zbicsgdqab,sjhsvybsvyja bhvsgqivsrtsyju.sIbubufbi,sqdhr,svyqvsvyb
hnimbrosunhvsrgbiqvbstirusqfrzb,shrubsbjmyvsrisvbostbbvsjovbizbojom
fbvpbbosyjusqoesyjhshnfkbav,sqoesvyqvshnfkbavsqdurhvsyjeebosjosq
ejhardrnibe,sirddjom,sqoesrtvbovjubhsvnundvnrnhsqoesfnihvjomshbq.sFbqi
josujoe,svrr,svyqvsnoebisvybhbsnovrpqiesajianuhvqoabhsybsyqhsvrsanv
uqocstbbvsebbgsjosvybstdbhy;sqoesjosvyqvshnfvbiiqobrnhsuqoobi,spjvyrnv
hrsunaysqhsmbvvjomsrobshjomdbsgbbgsjovrsvybsbzbi-aroviqavjomsmqhysvynh
uqeb,sybsunhvsh jdtnddcshvbbisadbqisrtsqddsqekqabov,sjovbiejavbesgqivh,
qoesbxqavdcsejzjebsvybshgjobsqvsqsaijvjaqdsgrjovsyqiesfcsjvhsjohbivjro
jovrsvybsh ndd.sErscrnsorvsuqizbd,svybo,sqvsHvnff’hsfrqhv,svyqvsyb
ebuqoebesfnvsvbosujonvbhsvrsfbybqesqshgbiuspyqdb?

Pybostjihvshbzbibe,svybsybqesjhseirggbesqhvbiosqoesybdesvybibsfcsq
aqfdbsvjddsvybsfrecsjhshvijggbe.sVyqvserob,sjtsjvsfbdromsvrsqshuqdd
pyqdbsjvsjhsyrjhvbesroseba svrsfbsebdjfbiqvbdcsejhgrhbesrt.sFnv,spjvysq
tnddsmirposdbzjqvyqosvyjhsjhsjugrhhjfdb;strisvybshgbiuspyqdb’hsybqe
bufiqabhsobqidcsrobsvyjiesrtsyjhsbovjibsfnd ,sqoesarugdbvbdcsvrshnhgboe
hnaysqsfniebosqhsvyqv,sbzbosfcsvybsjuubohbsvqa dbhsrtsqspyqdbi,svyjh
pbibsqhszqjosqsvyjomsqhsvrsqvvbugvspbjmyjomsqsEnvaysfqiosjoskbpbddbih’
haqdbh.

VybsGblnre’hspyqdbsfbjomsebaqgjvqvbesqoesvybsfrecshvijggbe,svybsybqe
pqhsyrjhvbesqmqjohvsvybshyjg’hshjeb—qfrnvsyqdtspqcsrnvsrtsvybshbq,shr
vyqvsjvsujmyvscbvsjosmibqvsgqivsfbsfnrcbesngsfcsjvhsoqvjzbsbdbubov.sQoe
vybibspjvysvybshviqjobesaiqtvshvbbgdcsdbqojomsrzbisvrsjv,sfcsibqhrosrt
vybsboriurnhserpopqieseiqmstirusvybsdrpbisuqhv-ybqe,sqoesbzbicscqie-qiu
rosvyqvshjebsgirkbavjomsdj bsqsaiqobsrzbisvybspqzbh;svybib,svyqv
fdrre-eijggjomsybqesynomsvrsvybsGblnre’hspqjhvsdj bsvybsmjqov
Yrdrtbiobh’hstirusvybsmjiedbsrtsKnejvy.

Pybosvyjhsdqhvsvqh spqhsqaarugdjhybesjvspqhsorro,sqoesvybshbqubospbov
fbdrpsvrsvybjisejoobi.sHjdboabsibjmobesrzbisvybsfbtribsvnundvnrnhsfnv
orpsebhbivbeseba .sQosjovbohbsarggbisaqdu,sdj bsqsnojzbihqdscbddrp
drvnh,spqhsuribsqoesuribsnotrdejomsjvhsorjhbdbhhsubqhnibdbhhsdbqzbh
ngrosvybshbq.

Qshyrivshgqabsbdqghbe,sqoesngsjovrsvyjhsorjhbdbhhobhhsaqubsQyqfsqdrob
tirusyjhsaqfjo.sVq jomsqstbpsvniohsrosvybslnqivbi-eba ,sybsgqnhbesvr
mqwbsrzbisvybshjeb,svyboshdrpdcsmbvvjomsjovrsvybsuqjo-ayqjohsybsvrr 
Hvnff’hsdromshgqeb—hvjddsibuqjojomsvybibsqtvbisvybspyqdb’h
ebaqgjvqvjro—qoeshvij jomsjvsjovrsvybsdrpbisgqivsrtsvybsyqdt-hnhgboebe
uqhh,sgdqabesjvhsrvybisboesainvay-pjhbsnoebisrobsqiu,sqoeshrshvrre
dbqojomsrzbispjvysbcbhsqvvbovjzbdcstjxbesrosvyjhsybqe.

Jvspqhsqsfdqa sqoesyrrebesybqe;sqoesyqomjomsvybibsjosvybsujehvsrtshr
jovbohbsqsaqdu,sjvshbbubesvybsHgycox’hsjosvybsebhbiv.s“Hgbq ,svyrnszqhv
qoeszbobiqfdbsybqe,”sunvvbibesQyqf,s“pyjay,svyrnmysnomqiojhybespjvysq
fbqie,scbvsybibsqoesvybibsdrr bhvsyrqicspjvysurhhbh;shgbq ,sujmyvc
ybqe,sqoesvbddsnhsvybshbaibvsvyjomsvyqvsjhsjosvybb.sRtsqddsejzbih,svyrn
yqhvsejzbesvybsebbgbhv.sVyqvsybqesngrospyjaysvybsnggbishnosorpsmdbquh,
yqhsurzbesqujesvyjhspride’hstrnoeqvjroh.sPybibsnoibariebesoqubhsqoe
oqzjbhsinhv,sqoesnovrdesyrgbhsqoesqoayrihsirv;spybibsjosybisuniebirnh
yrdesvyjhstijmqvbsbqivysjhsfqddqhvbespjvysfrobhsrtsujddjrohsrtsvyb
eirpobe;svybib,sjosvyqvsqptndspqvbi-dqoe,svybibspqhsvycsurhvstqujdjqi
yrub.sVyrnsyqhvsfbbospybibsfbddsrisejzbisobzbispbov;syqhvshdbgvsfcsuqoc
qshqjdri’hshjeb,spybibshdbbgdbhhsurvybihsprndesmjzbsvybjisdjzbhsvrsdqc
vybuserpo.sVyrnshqp’hvsvybsdra besdrzbihspybosdbqgjomstirusvybji
tdqujomshyjg;sybqivsvrsybqivsvybcshqo sfbobqvysvybsbxndvjomspqzb;svinb
vrsbqaysrvybi,spybosybqzboshbbubestqdhbsvrsvybu.sVyrnshqp’hvsvyb
uniebibesuqvbspybosvrhhbesfcsgjiqvbhstirusvybsujeojmyvseba ;strisyrnih
ybstbddsjovrsvybsebbgbisujeojmyvsrtsvybsjohqvjqvbsuqp;sqoesyjh
uniebibihshvjddshqjdbesrosnoyqiube—pyjdbshpjtvsdjmyvojomhshyjzbibesvyb
objmyfrijomshyjgsvyqvsprndesyqzbsfriobsqsijmyvbrnhsynhfqoesvr
rnvhvibvaybe,sdromjomsqiuh.sRsybqe!svyrnsyqhvshbbosbornmysvrshgdjvsvyb
gdqobvhsqoesuq bsqosjotjebdsrtsQfiqyqu,sqoesorvsrobshcddqfdbsjhsvyjob!”

“Hqjdsyr!”saijbesqsvijnugyqovszrjabstirusvybsuqjo-uqhv-ybqe.

“Qcb?sPbdd,sorp,svyqv’hsaybbijom,”saijbesQyqf,shneebodcsbibavjom
yjuhbdt,spyjdbspyrdbsvynoebi-adrnehshpbgvsqhjebstirusyjhsfirp.s“Vyqv
djzbdcsaicsngrosvyjhsebqedcsaqdusujmyvsqdurhvsarozbivsqsfbvvbi
uqo.—Pybibsqpqc?”

“Vyibbsgrjovhsrosvybshvqifrqiesfrp,shji,sqoesfijomjomserposybisfibbwb
vrsnh!

“Fbvvbisqoesfbvvbi,suqo.sPrndesorpsHv.sGqndsprndesarubsqdromsvyqvspqc,
qoesvrsucsfibbwbdbhhobhhsfijomsyjhsfibbwb!sRsOqvnib,sqoesRshrndsrtsuqo!
yrpstqisfbcroesqddsnvvbiqoabsqibscrnisdjo besqoqdrmjbh!sorvsvyb
huqddbhvsqvrushvjihsrisdjzbhsrosuqvvbi,sfnvsyqhsjvhsanoojomsengdjaqvb
josujoe.”


AYQGVBIs71.sVybsKbirfrqu’hsHvric.

Yqoesjosyqoe,shyjgsqoesfibbwbsfdbpsro;sfnvsvybsfibbwbsaqubstqhvbisvyqo
vybshyjg,sqoeshrrosvybsGblnresfbmqosvrsira .

Fcsqoesfc,svyirnmysvybsmdqhhsvybshviqombi’hsfrqvhsqoesuqoobesuqhv-ybqeh
girzbesybisqspyqdb-hyjg.sFnvsqhshybspqhshrstqisvrspjoepqie,sqoe
hyrrvjomsfc,sqggqibovdcsuq jomsqsgqhhqmbsvrshrubsrvybismirnoe,svyb
Gblnresarndesorvsyrgbsvrsibqaysybi.sHrsvybshjmoqdspqhshbvsvrshbbspyqv
ibhgrohbsprndesfbsuqeb.

Ybibsfbsjvshqje,svyqvsdj bsvybszbhhbdhsrtsujdjvqicsuqijobh,svybshyjgh
rtsvybsQubijaqosPyqdbsTdbbvsyqzbsbqaysqsgijzqvbshjmoqd;sqddspyjay
hjmoqdhsfbjomsarddbavbesjosqsfrr spjvysvybsoqubhsrtsvybsibhgbavjzb
zbhhbdhsqvvqaybe,sbzbicsaqgvqjosjhsgirzjebespjvysjv.sVybibfc,svybspyqdb
aruuqoebihsqibsboqfdbesvrsibarmojhbsbqaysrvybisngrosvybsrabqo,sbzbosqv
arohjebiqfdbsejhvqoabhsqoespjvysorshuqddstqajdjvc.

VybsGblnre’hshjmoqdspqhsqvsdqhvsibhgroebesvrsfcsvybshviqombi’hshbvvjom
ybisrpo;spyjaysgirzbesvybshyjgsvrsfbsvybsKbirfrqusrtsOqovna bv.
Hlnqijomsybiscqieh,shybsfribserpo,siqombesqfbqusnoebisvybsGblnre’hsdbb,
qoesdrpbibesqsfrqv;sjvshrroseibpsojmy;sfnv,sqhsvybshjeb-dqeebispqh
fbjomsijmmbesfcsHvqifna ’hsriebisvrsqaaruureqvbsvybszjhjvjomsaqgvqjo,
vybshviqombisjoslnbhvjrospqzbesyjhsyqoestirusyjhsfrqv’hshvbiosjosvr bo
rtsvyqvsgirabbejomsfbjomsbovjibdcsnoobabhhqic.sJvsvniobesrnvsvyqvsvyb
Kbirfrqusyqesqsuqdjmoqovsbgjebujasrosfrqie,sqoesvyqvsUqcybp,sybi
aqgvqjo,spqhstbqitndsrtsjotbavjomsvybsGblnre’hsarugqoc.sTri,svyrnmy
yjuhbdtsqoesfrqv’hsaibpsibuqjobesnovqjovbe,sqoesvyrnmysyjhshyjgspqh
yqdtsqsijtdb-hyrvsrtt,sqoesqosjoariingvjfdbshbqsqoesqjisirddjomsqoe
tdrpjomsfbvpbbo;scbvsarohajbovjrnhdcsqeybijomsvrsvybsvjujeslnqiqovjob
rtsvybsdqoe,sybsgbibugvrijdcsibtnhbesvrsarubsjovrsejibavsarovqavspjvy
vybsGblnre.

Fnvsvyjhsejesfcsorsubqohsgibzbovsqddsaruunojaqvjroh.sGibhbizjomsqo
jovbizqdsrtshrubstbpscqiehsfbvpbbosjvhbdtsqoesvybshyjg,svybsKbirfrqu’h
frqvsfcsvybsraaqhjroqdsnhbsrtsjvhsrqihsarovijzbesvrs bbgsgqiqddbdsvr
vybsGblnre,sqhshybsybqzjdcstrimbesvyirnmysvybshbqs(trisfcsvyjhsvjubsjv
fdbpszbicstibhy),spjvysybisuqjo-vrghqjdsqfqa ;svyrnmy,sjoebbe,sqvsvjubh
fcsvybshneebosrohbvsrtsqsdqimbsirddjomspqzb,svybsfrqvsprndesfbsgnhybe
hrubspqcsqybqe;sfnvsprndesfbshrrosh jdtnddcsfirnmyvsvrsybisgirgbi
fbqijomhsqmqjo.sHnfkbavsvrsvyjh,sqoesrvybisvybsdj bsjovbiingvjrohsorp
qoesvybo,sqsarozbihqvjrospqhshnhvqjobesfbvpbbosvybsvprsgqivjbh;sfnvsqv
jovbizqdhsorvspjvyrnvshvjddsqorvybisjovbiingvjrosrtsqszbicsejttbibov
hriv.

GnddjomsqosrqisjosvybsKbirfrqu’hsfrqv,spqhsqsuqosrtsqshjomndqi
qggbqiqoab,sbzbosjosvyqvspjdespyqdjomsdjtbspybibsjoejzjenqd
orvqfjdjvjbhsuq bsngsqddsvrvqdjvjbh.sYbspqhsqshuqdd,shyriv,scrnomjhy
uqo,shgijo dbesqddsrzbisyjhstqabspjvystiba dbh,sqoespbqijomsibenoeqov
cbddrpsyqji.sQsdrom-h jivbe,saqfqdjhvjaqddc-anvsarqvsrtsqstqebespqdonv
vjombsbozbdrgbesyju;svybsrzbidqggjomshdbbzbhsrtspyjayspbibsirddbesngsro
yjhspijhvh.sQsebbg,shbvvdbe,stqoqvjasebdjijnuspqhsjosyjhsbcbh.

Hrshrrosqhsvyjhstjmnibsyqesfbbostjihvsebhaijbe,sHvnffsyqe
bxadqjube—“Vyqv’hsyb!svyqv’hsyb!—vybsdrom-vrmmbeshaqiqurnaysvyb
Vrpo-Yr’hsarugqocsvrdesnhsrt!”sHvnffsybibsqddnebesvrsqshviqombshvric
vrdesrtsvybsKbirfrqu,sqoesqsabivqjosuqosquromsybisaibp,shrubsvjub
gibzjrnhspybosvybsGblnreshgr bsvybsVrpo-Yr.sQaariejomsvrsvyjhsqaarnov
qoespyqvspqhshnfhblnbovdcsdbqiobe,sjvshbbubesvyqvsvybshaqiqurnaysjo
lnbhvjrosyqesmqjobesqsproebitndsqhaboeboacsrzbisqdurhvsbzbicfrecsjosvyb
Kbirfrqu.sYjhshvricspqhsvyjh:

YbsyqesfbbosrijmjoqddcsonivnibesquromsvybsaiqwcshrajbvcsrtsObh cbnoq
Hyq bih,spybibsybsyqesfbbosqsmibqvsgirgybv;sjosvybjisaiqa be,shbaibv
ubbvjomhsyqzjomshbzbiqdsvjubhsebhaboebestirusybqzbosfcsvybspqcsrtsq
viqg-erri,sqoornoajomsvybshgbbecsrgbojomsrtsvybshbzbovyszjqd,spyjaysyb
aqiijbesjosyjhszbhv-gra bv;sfnv,spyjay,sjohvbqesrtsarovqjojom
mnogrpebi,spqhshnggrhbesvrsfbsayqimbespjvysdqneqonu.sQshviqomb,
qgrhvrdjaspyjusyqzjomshbjwbesyju,sybsyqesdbtvsObh cbnoqstrisOqovna bv,
pybib,spjvysvyqvsanoojomsgbandjqisvrsaiqwjobhh,sybsqhhnubesqshvbqec,
aruuro-hbohbsbxvbijri,sqoesrttbibesyjuhbdtsqhsqsmibbo-yqoesaqoejeqvb
trisvybsKbirfrqu’hspyqdjomszrcqmb.sVybcsbomqmbesyju;sfnvshviqjmyvpqc
ngrosvybshyjg’hsmbvvjomsrnvsrtshjmyvsrtsdqoe,syjhsjohqojvcsfir bsrnvsjo
qstibhybv.sYbsqoornoabesyjuhbdtsqhsvybsqiayqombdsMqfijbd,sqoesaruuqoebe
vybsaqgvqjosvrsknugsrzbifrqie.sYbsgnfdjhybesyjhsuqojtbhvr,spybibfcsyb
hbvsyjuhbdtstrivysqhsvybsebdjzbibisrtsvybsjhdbhsrtsvybshbqsqoe
zjaqi-mbobiqdsrtsqddsRabqojaq.sVybsnotdjoayjomsbqiobhvobhhspjvyspyjay
ybsebadqibesvybhbsvyjomh;—vybseqi ,seqijomsgdqcsrtsyjhshdbbgdbhh,
bxajvbesjuqmjoqvjro,sqoesqddsvybsgibvbioqvniqdsvbiirihsrtsibqd
ebdjijnu,snojvbesvrsjozbhvsvyjhsMqfijbdsjosvybsujoehsrtsvybsuqkrijvcsrt
vybsjmoriqovsaibp,spjvysqosqvurhgybibsrtshqaibeobhh.sUribrzbi,svybc
pbibsqtiqjesrtsyju.sQhshnaysqsuqo,syrpbzbi,spqhsorvsrtsunaysgiqavjaqd
nhbsjosvybshyjg,sbhgbajqddcsqhsybsibtnhbesvrspri sbxabgvspybosyb
gdbqhbe,svybsjoaibendrnhsaqgvqjosprndestqjosyqzbsfbbosijesrtsyju;sfnv
qggijhbesvyqvsvyqvsjoejzjenqd’hsjovbovjrospqhsvrsdqoesyjusjosvybstjihv
arozbojbovsgriv,svybsqiayqombdstrivypjvysrgbobesqddsyjhshbqdhsqoe
zjqdh—ebzrvjomsvybshyjgsqoesqddsyqoehsvrsnoaroejvjroqdsgbiejvjro,sjo
aqhbsvyjhsjovbovjrospqhsaqiijbesrnv.sHrshviromdcsejesybspri sngrosyjh
ejhajgdbhsquromsvybsaibp,svyqvsqvsdqhvsjosqsfrecsvybcspbovsvrsvyb
aqgvqjosqoesvrdesyjusjtsMqfijbdspqhshbovstirusvybshyjg,sorvsqsuqosrt
vybusprndesibuqjo.sYbspqhsvybibtribstriabesvrsibdjolnjhysyjhsgdqo.sOri
prndesvybcsgbiujvsMqfijbdsvrsfbsqocspqcsuqdvibqvbe,shqcsriserspyqvsyb
prnde;shrsvyqvsjvsaqubsvrsgqhhsvyqvsMqfijbdsyqesvybsarugdbvbstibberusrt
vybshyjg.sVybsarohblnboabsrtsqddsvyjhspqh,svyqvsvybsqiayqombdsaqibe
djvvdbsrisorvyjomstrisvybsaqgvqjosqoesuqvbh;sqoeshjoabsvybsbgjebujasyqe
fir bosrnv,sybsaqiijbesqsyjmybisyqoesvyqosbzbi;sebadqijomsvyqvsvyb
gdqmnb,sqhsybsaqddbesjv,spqhsqvsyjhshrdbsaruuqoe;sorishyrndesjvsfb
hvqcbesfnvsqaariejomsvrsyjhsmrresgdbqhnib.sVybshqjdrih,surhvdcsgrri
ebzjdh,saijombe,sqoeshrubsrtsvybustqpobesfbtribsyju;sjosrfbejboabsvr
yjhsjohvinavjroh,shrubvjubhsiboebijomsyjusgbihroqdsyruqmb,sqhsvrsqsmre.
Hnaysvyjomhsuqcshbbusjoaibejfdb;sfnv,syrpbzbisproeirnh,svybcsqibsvinb.
Orisjhsvybsyjhvricsrtstqoqvjahsyqdtshrshvij jomsjosibhgbavsvrsvyb
ubqhnibdbhhshbdt-ebabgvjrosrtsvybstqoqvjasyjuhbdt,sqhsyjhsubqhnibdbhh
grpbisrtsebabjzjomsqoesfbebzjddjomshrsuqocsrvybih.sFnvsjvsjhsvjubsvr
ibvniosvrsvybsGblnre.

“Jstbqisorvsvycsbgjebuja,suqo,”shqjesQyqfstirusvybsfndpqi h,svrsAqgvqjo
Uqcybp,spyrshvrresjosvybsfrqv’hshvbio;s“arubsrosfrqie.”

FnvsorpsMqfijbdshvqivbesvrsyjhstbbv.

“Vyjo ,svyjo srtsvybstbzbih,scbddrpsqoesfjdjrnh!sFbpqibsrtsvybsyriijfdb
gdqmnb!”

“Mqfijbd!sMqfijbd!”saijbesAqgvqjosUqcybp;s“vyrnsunhvsbjvybi—”sFnvsvyqv
johvqovsqsybqedromspqzbshyrvsvybsfrqvstqisqybqe,sqoesjvhshbbvyjomh
eirpobesqddshgbbay.

“YqhvsvyrnshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”sebuqoebesQyqf,spybosvybsfrqvseijtvbe
fqa .

“Vyjo ,svyjo srtsvycspyqdb-frqv,shvrzbosqoeshno !sFbpqibsrtsvyb
yriijfdbsvqjd!”

“Jsvbddsvybbsqmqjo,sMqfijbd,svyqv—”sFnvsqmqjosvybsfrqvsvribsqybqesqhsjt
eiqmmbesfcstjboeh.sOrvyjomspqhshqjestrishrubsurubovh,spyjdbsq
hnaabhhjrosrtsijrvrnhspqzbhsirddbesfc,spyjaysfcsrobsrtsvyrhbsraaqhjroqd
aqgijabhsrtsvybshbqhspbibsvnufdjom,sorvsybqzjomsjv.sUbqovjub,svyb
yrjhvbeshgbiuspyqdb’hsybqeskrmmbesqfrnvszbicszjrdbovdc,sqoesMqfijbdspqh
hbbosbcbjomsjvspjvysiqvybisuribsqggibybohjzbobhhsvyqosyjhsqiayqombd
oqvnibshbbubesvrspqiiqov.

Pybosvyjhsjovbidnebspqhsrzbi,sAqgvqjosUqcybpsfbmqosqseqi shvric
aroabiojomsUrfcsEja ;sorv,syrpbzbi,spjvyrnvstiblnbovsjovbiingvjrohstiru
Mqfijbd,spybobzbisyjhsoqubspqhsubovjrobe,sqoesvybsaiqwcshbqsvyqvshbbube
dbqmnbespjvysyju.

JvshbbubesvyqvsvybsKbirfrqusyqesorvsdromsdbtvsyrub,spybosngroshgbq jom
qspyqdb-hyjg,sybisgbrgdbspbibsibdjqfdcsqggijhbesrtsvybsbxjhvboabsrt
UrfcsEja ,sqoesvybsyqzrasybsyqesuqeb.sMibbejdcshna jomsjosvyjh
jovbddjmboab,sMqfijbdshrdbuodcspqiobesvybsaqgvqjosqmqjohvsqvvqa jomsvyb
PyjvbsPyqdb,sjosaqhbsvybsurohvbishyrndesfbshbbo;sjosyjhsmjffbijom
johqojvc,sgirornoajomsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsvrsfbsorsdbhhsqsfbjomsvyqosvyb
Hyq bisMresjoaqioqvbe;svybsHyq bihsibabjzjomsvybsFjfdb.sFnvspybo,shrub
cbqisrisvprsqtvbipqieh,sUrfcsEja spqhstqjidcshjmyvbestirusvyb
uqhv-ybqeh,sUqabc,svybsayjbtsuqvb,sfniobespjvysqiernisvrsboarnovbisyju;
qoesvybsaqgvqjosyjuhbdtsfbjomsorvsnopjddjomsvrsdbvsyjusyqzbsvyb
rggrivnojvc,sebhgjvbsqddsvybsqiayqombd’hsebonoajqvjrohsqoe
tribpqiojomh,sUqabcshnaabbebesjosgbihnqejomstjzbsubosvrsuqosyjhsfrqv.
Pjvysvybusybsgnhybesrtt;sqoe,sqtvbisunayspbqicsgnddjom,sqoesuqoc
gbijdrnh,snohnaabhhtndsrohbvh,sybsqvsdqhvshnaabbebesjosmbvvjomsrobsjiro
tqhv.sUbqovjub,sMqfijbd,sqhaboejomsvrsvybsuqjo-ircqdsuqhv-ybqe,spqh
vrhhjomsrobsqiusjostiqovjasmbhvnibh,sqoesynidjomstrivysgirgybajbhsrt
hgbbecserrusvrsvybshqaijdbmjrnhsqhhqjdqovhsrtsyjhsejzjojvc.sOrp,spyjdb
Uqabc,svybsuqvb,spqhshvqoejomsngsjosyjhsfrqv’hsfrp,sqoespjvysqddsvyb
iba dbhhsbobimcsrtsyjhsvijfbspqhszbovjomsyjhspjdesbxadquqvjrohsngrosvyb
pyqdb,sqoesbhhqcjomsvrsmbvsqstqjisayqoabstrisyjhsgrjhbesdqoab,sdr!sq
firqespyjvbshyqerpsirhbstirusvybshbq;sfcsjvhslnja ,stqoojomsurvjro,
vbugriqijdcsvq jomsvybsfibqvysrnvsrtsvybsfrejbhsrtsvybsrqihubo.sObxv
johvqov,svybsdna dbhhsuqvb,shrstnddsrtstnijrnhsdjtb,spqhshujvvbosfrejdc
jovrsvybsqji,sqoesuq jomsqsdromsqiasjosyjhsebhabov,stbddsjovrsvybshbq
qvsvybsejhvqoabsrtsqfrnvstjtvcscqieh.sOrvsqsayjgsrtsvybsfrqvspqh
yqiube,sorisqsyqjisrtsqocsrqihuqo’hsybqe;sfnvsvybsuqvbstrisbzbishqo .

Jvsjhspbddsvrsgqibovybhjwbsybib,svyqvsrtsvybstqvqdsqaajebovhsjosvyb
Hgbiu-PyqdbsTjhybic,svyjhs joesjhsgbiyqghsqdurhvsqhstiblnbovsqhsqoc.
Hrubvjubh,sorvyjomsjhsjoknibesfnvsvybsuqospyrsjhsvynhsqoojyjdqvbe;
rtvbobisvybsfrqv’hsfrpsjhs ora besrtt,srisvybsvyjmy-frqie,sjospyjaysvyb
ybqehuqoshvqoeh,sjhsvriostirusjvhsgdqabsqoesqaarugqojbhsvybsfrec.sFnv
hviqombhvsrtsqddsjhsvybsajianuhvqoab,svyqvsjosuribsjohvqoabhsvyqosrob,
pybosvybsfrecsyqhsfbbosibarzbibe,sorvsqshjomdbsuqi srtszjrdboabsjh
ejhabiojfdb;svybsuqosfbjomshvqi sebqe.

Vybspyrdbsaqdqujvc,spjvysvybstqddjomstriusrtsUqabc,spqhsgdqjodc
ebhaijbestirusvybshyjg.sIqjhjomsqsgjbiajomshyijb —“Vybszjqd!svybszjqd!”
Mqfijbdsaqddbesrttsvybsvbiiri-hvija bosaibpstirusvybstnivybisynovjomsrt
vybspyqdb.sVyjhsvbiijfdbsbzbovsadrvybesvybsqiayqombdspjvysqeebe
jotdnboab;sfbaqnhbsyjhsaibendrnhsejhajgdbhsfbdjbzbesvyqvsybsyqe
hgbajtjaqddcstrib-qoornoabesjv,sjohvbqesrtsrodcsuq jomsqsmbobiqd
girgybac,spyjaysqocsrobsujmyvsyqzbserob,sqoeshrsyqzbsayqoabesvrsyjvsrob
rtsuqocsuqi hsjosvybspjebsuqimjosqddrpbe.sYbsfbaqubsqsoqubdbhhsvbiiri
vrsvybshyjg.

Uqcybpsyqzjomsaroadnebesyjhsoqiiqvjro,sQyqfsgnvshnayslnbhvjrohsvrsyju,
vyqvsvybshviqombisaqgvqjosarndesorvstrifbqisjolnjijomspybvybisyb
jovboebesvrsynovsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb,sjtsrggrivnojvcshyrndesrttbi.sVrspyjay
Qyqfsqohpbibe—“Qcb.”sHviqjmyvpqc,svybo,sMqfijbdsroabsuribshvqivbesvr
yjhstbbv,smdqijomsngrosvybsrdesuqo,sqoeszbybubovdcsbxadqjube,spjvy
erpopqiesgrjovbestjombi—“Vyjo ,svyjo srtsvybsfdqhgybubi—ebqe,sqoeserpo
vybib!—fbpqibsrtsvybsfdqhgybubi’hsboe!”

Qyqfshvrdjedcsvniobesqhjeb;svyboshqjesvrsUqcybp,s“Aqgvqjo,sJsyqzbsknhv
fbvyrnmyvsubsrtsucsdbvvbi-fqm;svybibsjhsqsdbvvbistrisrobsrtsvyc
rttjabih,sjtsJsujhvq bsorv.sHvqifna ,sdrr srzbisvybsfqm.”

Bzbicspyqdb-hyjgsvq bhsrnvsqsmrredcsonufbisrtsdbvvbihstriszqijrnh
hyjgh,spyrhbsebdjzbicsvrsvybsgbihrohsvrspyrusvybcsuqcsfbsqeeibhhbe,
ebgboehsngrosvybsubibsayqoabsrtsboarnovbijomsvybusjosvybstrnisrabqoh.
Vynh,surhvsdbvvbihsobzbisibqaysvybjisuqi ;sqoesuqocsqibsrodcsibabjzbe
qtvbisqvvqjojomsqosqmbsrtsvprsrisvyibbscbqihsrisurib.

HrrosHvqifna sibvniobespjvysqsdbvvbisjosyjhsyqoe.sJvspqhshribdc
vnufdbe,sequg,sqoesarzbibespjvysqsendd,shgrvvbe,smibbosurnde,sjo
arohblnboabsrtsfbjoms bgvsjosqseqi sdra bisrtsvybsaqfjo.sRtshnaysq
dbvvbi,sEbqvysyjuhbdtsujmyvspbddsyqzbsfbbosvybsgrhv-frc.

“Aqo’hvsorvsibqesjv?”saijbesQyqf.s“Mjzbsjvsub,suqo.sQcb,sqcb,sjv’hsfnv
qsejushaiqpd;—pyqv’hsvyjh?”sQhsybspqhshvnecjomsjvsrnv,sHvqifna svrr sq
dromsanvvjom-hgqebsgrdb,sqoespjvysyjhs ojtbshdjmyvdcshgdjvsvybsboe,svr
johbivsvybsdbvvbisvybib,sqoesjosvyqvspqc,syqoesjvsvrsvybsfrqv,spjvyrnv
jvhsarujomsqocsadrhbisvrsvybshyjg.

Ubqovjub,sQyqfsyrdejomsvybsdbvvbi,sunvvbibe,s“Ui.sYqi—cbh,sUi.sYqiic—(q
pruqo’hsgjoocsyqoe,—vybsuqo’hspjtb,sJ’ddspqmbi)—Qcb—Ui.sYqiicsUqabc,
HyjgsKbirfrqu;—pycsjv’hsUqabc,sqoesyb’hsebqe!”

“Grristbddrp!sgrristbddrp!sqoestirusyjhspjtb,”shjmybesUqcybp;s“fnvsdbv
ubsyqzbsjv.”

“Oqc,s bbgsjvsvychbdt,”saijbesMqfijbdsvrsQyqf;s“vyrnsqivshrrosmrjom
vyqvspqc.”

“Anihbhsvyirvvdbsvybb!”scbddbesQyqf.s“AqgvqjosUqcybp,shvqoesfcsorpsvr
ibabjzbsjv”;sqoesvq jomsvybstqvqdsujhhjzbstirusHvqifna ’hsyqoeh,syb
aqnmyvsjvsjosvybshdjvsrtsvybsgrdb,sqoesibqaybesjvsrzbisvrpqiehsvyb
frqv.sFnvsqhsybsejeshr,svybsrqihubosbxgbavqovdcsebhjhvbestirusirpjom;
vybsfrqvseijtvbesqsdjvvdbsvrpqiehsvybshyjg’hshvbio;shrsvyqv,sqhsjtsfc
uqmja,svybsdbvvbishneebodcsiqombesqdromspjvysMqfijbd’hsbqmbisyqoe.sYb
adnvaybesjvsjosqosjohvqov,shbjwbesvybsfrqv- ojtb,sqoesjugqdjomsvyb
dbvvbisrosjv,shbovsjvsvynhsdrqebesfqa sjovrsvybshyjg.sJvstbddsqvsQyqf’h
tbbv.sVybosMqfijbdshyijb besrnvsvrsyjhsaruiqebhsvrsmjzbspqcspjvysvybji
rqih,sqoesjosvyqvsuqoobisvybsunvjornhsfrqvsiqgjedcshyrvsqpqcstirusvyb
Gblnre.

Qh,sqtvbisvyjhsjovbidneb,svybshbqubosibhnubesvybjispri sngrosvybskqa bv
rtsvybspyqdb,suqocshviqombsvyjomhspbibsyjovbesjosibtbiboabsvrsvyjhspjde
qttqji.


AYQGVBIs72.sVybsUro bc-Irgb.

Josvybsvnundvnrnhsfnhjobhhsrtsanvvjom-josqoesqvvboejomsvrsqspyqdb,
vybibsjhsunaysinoojomsfqa pqiehsqoestripqiehsquromsvybsaibp.sOrpsyqoeh
qibspqovbesybib,sqoesvybosqmqjosyqoehsqibspqovbesvybib.sVybibsjhsor
hvqcjomsjosqocsrobsgdqab;strisqvsrobsqoesvybshqubsvjubsbzbicvyjomsyqh
vrsfbserobsbzbicpybib.sJvsjhsunaysvybshqubspjvysyjuspyrsboebqzrihsvyb
ebhaijgvjrosrtsvybshabob.sPbsunhvsorpsibviqabsrnispqcsqsdjvvdb.sJvspqh
ubovjrobesvyqvsngrostjihvsfibq jomsmirnoesjosvybspyqdb’hsfqa ,svyb
fdnffbi-yrr spqhsjohbivbesjovrsvybsrijmjoqdsyrdbsvybibsanvsfcsvyb
hgqebhsrtsvybsuqvbh.sFnvsyrpsejeshrsadnuhcsqoespbjmyvcsqsuqhhsqhsvyqv
hqubsyrr smbvstjxbesjosvyqvsyrdb?sJvspqhsjohbivbesvybibsfcsuc
gqivjandqistijboesLnbblnbm,spyrhbsenvcsjvspqh,sqhsyqigrrobbi,svr
ebhaboesngrosvybsurohvbi’hsfqa strisvybshgbajqdsgnigrhbsibtbiibesvr.
Fnvsjoszbicsuqocsaqhbh,sajianuhvqoabhsiblnjibsvyqvsvybsyqigrrobbishyqdd
ibuqjosrosvybspyqdbsvjddsvybspyrdbstdbohjomsrishvijggjomsrgbiqvjrosjh
aroadnebe.sVybspyqdb,sfbsjvsrfhbizbe,sdjbhsqdurhvsbovjibdcshnfubimbe,
bxabgvjomsvybsjuubejqvbsgqivhsrgbiqvbesngro.sHrserposvybib,shrubsvbo
tbbvsfbdrpsvybsdbzbdsrtsvybseba ,svybsgrrisyqigrrobbistdrnoebihsqfrnv,
yqdtsrosvybspyqdbsqoesyqdtsjosvybspqvbi,sqhsvybszqhvsuqhhsibzrdzbhsdj b
qsvibqe-ujddsfbobqvysyju.sRosvybsraaqhjrosjoslnbhvjro,sLnbblnbmstjmnibe
josvybsYjmydqoesarhvnub—qshyjivsqoeshra h—jospyjaysvrsucsbcbh,sqv
dbqhv,sybsqggbqibesvrsnoaruurosqezqovqmb;sqoesorsrobsyqesqsfbvvbi
ayqoabsvrsrfhbizbsyju,sqhspjddsgibhbovdcsfbshbbo.

Fbjomsvybshqzqmb’hsfrphuqo,svyqvsjh,svybsgbihrospyrsgnddbesvybsfrp-rqi
josyjhsfrqvs(vybshbaroesrobstirustripqie),sjvspqhsucsaybbitndsenvcsvr
qvvboesngrosyjuspyjdbsvq jomsvyqvsyqie-haiqffdbshaiqufdbsngrosvybsebqe
pyqdb’hsfqa .sCrnsyqzbshbbosJvqdjqosrimqo-frchsyrdejomsqseqoajom-qgbsfc
qsdromsarie.sKnhvshr,stirusvybshyjg’hshvbbgshjeb,sejesJsyrdesLnbblnbm
erposvybibsjosvybshbq,sfcspyqvsjhsvbayojaqddcsaqddbesjosvybstjhybicsq
uro bc-irgb,sqvvqaybesvrsqshviromshvijgsrtsaqozqhsfbdvbesirnoesyjh
pqjhv.

Jvspqhsqsynurirnhdcsgbijdrnhsfnhjobhhstrisfrvysrtsnh.sTri,sfbtribspb
girabbestnivybi,sjvsunhvsfbshqjesvyqvsvybsuro bc-irgbspqhstqhvsqvsfrvy
boeh;stqhvsvrsLnbblnbm’hsfirqesaqozqhsfbdv,sqoestqhvsvrsucsoqiirp
dbqvybisrob.sHrsvyqvstrisfbvvbisristrisprihb,spbsvpr,strisvybsvjub,
pbibspbeebe;sqoeshyrndesgrrisLnbblnbmshjo svrsijhbsorsurib,svybosfrvy
nhqmbsqoesyrorisebuqoebe,svyqvsjohvbqesrtsanvvjomsvybsarie,sjvshyrnde
eiqmsubserposjosyjhspq b.sHr,svybo,sqosbdromqvbesHjqubhbsdjmqvnib
nojvbesnh.sLnbblnbmspqhsucsrposjohbgqiqfdbsvpjosfirvybi;sorisarndesJ
qocspqcsmbvsijesrtsvybseqombirnhsdjqfjdjvjbhspyjaysvybsybugbosfroe
bovqjdbe.

HrshviromdcsqoesubvqgychjaqddcsejesJsaroabjzbsrtsucshjvnqvjrosvybo,
vyqvspyjdbsbqiobhvdcspqvayjomsyjhsurvjroh,sJshbbubesejhvjoavdcsvr
gbiabjzbsvyqvsucsrposjoejzjenqdjvcspqhsorpsubimbesjosqskrjovshvra 
arugqocsrtsvpr;svyqvsucstibbspjddsyqesibabjzbesqsurivqdsprnoe;sqoesvyqv
qorvybi’hsujhvq bsrisujhtrivnobsujmyvsgdnombsjoorabovsubsjovrsnoubijvbe
ejhqhvbisqoesebqvy.sVybibtrib,sJshqpsvyqvsybibspqhsqshrivsrt
jovbiibmonusjosGirzjeboab;strisjvhsbzbo-yqoebesblnjvcsobzbisarndesyqzb
hrsmirhhsqosjoknhvjab.sQoescbvshvjddstnivybisgroebijom—pyjdbsJskbi be
yjusorpsqoesvybostirusfbvpbbosvybspyqdbsqoeshyjg,spyjaysprndesvyibqvbo
vrskqusyju—hvjddstnivybisgroebijom,sJshqc,sJshqpsvyqvsvyjhshjvnqvjrosrt
ujobspqhsvybsgibajhbshjvnqvjrosrtsbzbicsurivqdsvyqvsfibqvybh;srodc,sjo
urhvsaqhbh,syb,srobspqcsrisrvybi,syqhsvyjhsHjqubhbsaroobxjrospjvysq
gdniqdjvcsrtsrvybisurivqdh.sJtscrnisfqo bisfibq h,scrnshoqg;sjtscrni
qgrvybaqicsfcsujhvq bshboehscrnsgrjhrosjoscrnisgjddh,scrnsejb.sVinb,
crnsuqcshqcsvyqv,sfcsbxabbejomsaqnvjro,scrnsuqcsgrhhjfdcsbhaqgbsvybhb
qoesvybsundvjvnejornhsrvybisbzjdsayqoabhsrtsdjtb.sFnvsyqoedbsLnbblnbm’h
uro bc-irgbsybbetnddcsqhsJsprnde,shrubvjubhsybskbi besjvshr,svyqvsJ
aqubszbicsobqishdjejomsrzbifrqie.sOrisarndesJsgrhhjfdcstrimbvsvyqv,ser
pyqvsJsprnde,sJsrodcsyqesvybsuqoqmbubovsrtsrobsboesrtsjv.*

*Vybsuro bc-irgbsjhstrnoesjosqddspyqdbih;sfnvsjvspqhsrodcsjosvybsGblnre
vyqvsvybsuro bcsqoesyjhsyrdebispbibsbzbisvjbesvrmbvybi.sVyjh
jugirzbubovsngrosvybsrijmjoqdsnhqmbspqhsjovirenabesfcsorsdbhhsqsuqo
vyqosHvnff,sjosriebisvrsqttriesvybsjugbijddbesyqigrrobbisvybshvirombhv
grhhjfdbsmnqiqovbbstrisvybstqjvytndobhhsqoeszjmjdqoabsrtsyjh
uro bc-irgbsyrdebi.

JsyqzbsyjovbesvyqvsJsprndesrtvboskbi sgrrisLnbblnbmstirusfbvpbbosvyb
pyqdbsqoesvybshyjg—pybibsybsprndesraaqhjroqddcstqdd,stirusvybsjoabhhqov
irddjomsqoeshpqcjomsrtsfrvy.sFnvsvyjhspqhsorvsvybsrodcskquujomskbrgqiec
ybspqhsbxgrhbesvr.sNoqggqddbesfcsvybsuqhhqaibsuqebsngrosvybusenijomsvyb
ojmyv,svybshyqi hsorpstibhydcsqoesuribs bbodcsqddnibesfcsvybsfbtrib
gbovsfdrrespyjaysfbmqosvrstdrpstirusvybsaqiaqhh—vybsiqfjesaibqvnibh
hpqiubesirnoesjvsdj bsfbbhsjosqsfbbyjzb.

Qoesijmyvsjosquromsvyrhbshyqi hspqhsLnbblnbm;spyrsrtvbosgnhybesvybu
qhjebspjvysyjhstdrnoebijomstbbv.sQsvyjomsqdvrmbvybisjoaibejfdbspbibsjv
orvsvyqvsqvviqavbesfcshnaysgibcsqhsqsebqespyqdb,svybsrvybipjhb
ujhabddqobrnhdcsaqiojzrirnhshyqi spjddshbderusvrnaysqsuqo.

Obzbivybdbhh,sjvsuqcspbddsfbsfbdjbzbesvyqvshjoabsvybcsyqzbshnaysq
iqzbornhstjombisjosvybsgjb,sjvsjhsebbubesfnvspjhbsvrsdrr shyqigsvr
vybu.sQaariejomdc,sfbhjebhsvybsuro bc-irgb,spjvyspyjaysJsorpsqoesvybo
kbi besvybsgrristbddrpstirusvrrsadrhbsqszjajojvcsvrsvybsuqpsrtspyqv
hbbubesqsgbandjqidcstbirajrnhshyqi —ybspqhsgirzjebespjvyshvjddsqorvybi
girvbavjro.sHnhgboebesrzbisvybshjebsjosrobsrtsvybshvqmbh,sVqhyvbmrsqoe
Eqmmrrsarovjonqddcstdrnijhybesrzbisyjhsybqesqsarngdbsrts bbo
pyqdb-hgqebh,spybibpjvysvybcshdqnmyvbibesqhsuqocshyqi hsqhsvybcsarnde
ibqay.sVyjhsgirabenibsrtsvybjih,svrsfbshnib,spqhszbicsejhjovbibhvbesqoe
fbobzrdbovsrtsvybu.sVybcsubqovsLnbblnbm’hsfbhvsyqggjobhh,sJsqeujv;sfnv
josvybjisyqhvcswbqdsvrsfbtijboesyju,sqoestirusvybsajianuhvqoabsvyqv
frvysybsqoesvybshyqi hspbibsqvsvjubhsyqdtsyjeebosfcsvybsfdrre-uneedbe
pqvbi,svyrhbsjoejhaibbvshgqebhsrtsvybjihsprndesarubsobqibisqugnvqvjomsq
dbmsvyqosqsvqjd.sFnvsgrrisLnbblnbm,sJshnggrhb,shviqjojomsqoesmqhgjom
vybibspjvysvyqvsmibqvsjirosyrr —grrisLnbblnbm,sJshnggrhb,srodcsgiqcbe
vrsyjhsCrkr,sqoesmqzbsngsyjhsdjtbsjovrsvybsyqoehsrtsyjhsmreh.

Pbdd,spbdd,sucsebqisaruiqebsqoesvpjo-firvybi,svyrnmyvsJ,sqhsJseibpsjo
qoesvyboshdqa besrttsvybsirgbsvrsbzbicshpbddsrtsvybshbq—pyqvsuqvvbih
jv,sqtvbisqdd?sQibscrnsorvsvybsgibajrnhsjuqmbsrtsbqaysqoesqddsrtsnhsubo
josvyjhspyqdjomspride?sVyqvsnohrnoebesrabqoscrnsmqhgsjo,sjhsDjtb;svyrhb
hyqi h,scrnistrbh;svyrhbshgqebh,scrnistijboeh;sqoespyqvsfbvpbboshyqi h
qoeshgqebhscrnsqibsjosqshqesgja dbsqoesgbijd,sgrrisdqe.

Fnvsarniqmb!svybibsjhsmrresaybbisjoshvribstriscrn,sLnbblnbm.sTrisorp,
qhspjvysfdnbsdjghsqoesfdrre-hyrvsbcbhsvybsbxyqnhvbeshqzqmbsqvsdqhv
adjufhsngsvybsayqjohsqoeshvqoehsqddseijggjomsqoesjozrdnovqijdc
vibufdjomsrzbisvybshjeb;svybshvbpqiesqezqoabh,sqoespjvysqsfbobzrdbov,
arohrdqvricsmdqoabsyqoehsyju—pyqv?sHrubsyrvsArmoqa?sOr!syqoehsyju,scb
mreh!syqoehsyjusqsangsrtsvbgjesmjombisqoespqvbi!

“Mjombi?sErsJshubddsmjombi?”shnhgjajrnhdcsqh besHvnff,sarujomsobqi.
“Cbh,svyjhsunhvsfbsmjombi,”sgbbijomsjovrsvybsqhscbvsnovqhvbesang.sVybo
hvqoejomsqhsjtsjoaibendrnhstrisqspyjdb,sybsaqdudcspqd besvrpqiehsvyb
qhvrojhybeshvbpqieshdrpdcshqcjom,s“Mjombi?smjombi?sqoespjddscrnsyqzb
vybsmrreobhhsvrsvbddsub,sUi.sErnmy-Frc,spybibsdjbhsvybszjivnbsrt
mjombi?sMjombi!sjhsmjombisvybshrivsrtstnbdscrnsnhb,sErnmy-frc,svr
 joedbsqstjibsjosvyjhshyjzbijomsaqoojfqd?sMjombi!—pyqvsvybsebzjdsjh
mjombi?sHbq-arqd?stjibprre?—dnajtbisuqvaybh?—vjoebi?—mnogrpebi?—pyqv
vybsebzjdsjhsmjombi,sJshqc,svyqvscrnsrttbisvyjhsangsvrsrnisgrri
Lnbblnbmsybib.”

“Vybibsjhshrubshobq jomsVbugbiqoabsHrajbvcsurzbubovsqfrnvsvyjh
fnhjobhh,”sybshneebodcsqeebe,sorpsqggirqayjomsHvqifna ,spyrsyqesknhv
arubstirustripqie.s“Pjddscrnsdrr sqvsvyqvs qooq jo,shji:shubddsrtsjv,
jtscrnsgdbqhb.”sVybospqvayjomsvybsuqvb’hsarnovboqoab,sybsqeebe,s“Vyb
hvbpqie,sUi.sHvqifna ,syqesvybstqabsvrsrttbisvyqvsaqdrubdsqoeskqdqgsvr
Lnbblnbm,svybib,svyjhsjohvqovsrttsvybspyqdb.sJhsvybshvbpqiesqo
qgrvybaqic,shji?sqoesuqcsJsqh spybvybisvyjhsjhsvybshrivsrtsfjvvbihsfc
pyjaysybsfdrphsfqa svybsdjtbsjovrsqsyqdt-eirpobesuqo?”

“Jsvinhvsorv,”shqjesHvqifna ,s“jvsjhsgrrishvnttsbornmy.”

“Qcb,sqcb,shvbpqie,”saijbesHvnff,s“pb’ddsvbqayscrnsvrseinmsq
yqigrrobbi;sorobsrtscrnisqgrvybaqic’hsubejajobsybib;scrnspqovsvrsgrjhro
nh,serscb?sCrnsyqzbsmrvsrnvsjohniqoabhsrosrnisdjzbhsqoespqovsvrsuniebi
nhsqdd,sqoesgra bvsvybsgirabbeh,serscb?”

“Jvspqhsorvsub,”saijbesErnmy-Frc,s“jvspqhsQnovsAyqijvcsvyqvsfirnmyvsvyb
mjombisrosfrqie;sqoesfqebsubsobzbismjzbsvybsyqigrrobbihsqocshgjijvh,
fnvsrodcsvyjhsmjombi-knf—hrshybsaqddbesjv.”

“Mjombi-knf!scrnsmjombidcsiqhaqd!svq bsvyqv!sqoesinosqdromspjvyscbsvr
vybsdra bih,sqoesmbvshrubvyjomsfbvvbi.sJsyrgbsJsersorspirom,sUi.
Hvqifna .sJvsjhsvybsaqgvqjo’hsriebih—mirmstrisvybsyqigrrobbisrosq
pyqdb.”

“Bornmy,”sibgdjbesHvqifna ,s“rodcsero’vsyjvsyjusqmqjo,sfnv—”

“Ry,sJsobzbisynivspybosJsyjv,sbxabgvspybosJsyjvsqspyqdbsrishrubvyjomsrt
vyqvshriv;sqoesvyjhstbddrp’hsqspbqwbd.sPyqvspbibscrnsqfrnvshqcjom,
hji?”

“Rodcsvyjh:smrserpospjvysyju,sqoesmbvspyqvsvyrnspqovbhvsvychbdt.”

PybosHvnffsibqggbqibe,sybsaqubspjvysqseqi stdqh sjosrobsyqoe,sqoesq
hrivsrtsvbq-aqeecsjosvybsrvybi.sVybstjihvsarovqjobeshviromshgjijvh,sqoe
pqhsyqoebesvrsLnbblnbm;svybshbaroespqhsQnovsAyqijvc’hsmjtv,sqoesvyqv
pqhstibbdcsmjzbosvrsvybspqzbh.


AYQGVBIs73.sHvnffsqoesTdqh s jddsqsIjmyvsPyqdb;sqoesVybosYqzbsqsVqd 
rzbisYju.

JvsunhvsfbsfriobsjosujoesvyqvsqddsvyjhsvjubspbsyqzbsqsHgbiusPyqdb’h
girejmjrnhsybqesyqomjomsvrsvybsGblnre’hshjeb.sFnvspbsunhvsdbvsjv
arovjonbsyqomjomsvybibsqspyjdbsvjddspbsaqosmbvsqsayqoabsvrsqvvboesvr
jv.sTrisvybsgibhbovsrvybisuqvvbihsgibhh,sqoesvybsfbhvspbsaqosersorpstri
vybsybqe,sjhsvrsgiqcsybqzbosvybsvqa dbhsuqcsyrde.

Orp,senijomsvybsgqhvsojmyvsqoestriborro,svybsGblnresyqesmiqenqddc
eijtvbesjovrsqshbq,spyjay,sfcsjvhsraaqhjroqdsgqvaybhsrtscbddrpsfijv,
mqzbsnonhnqdsvr bohsrtsvybszjajojvcsrtsIjmyvsPyqdbh,sqshgbajbhsrtsvyb
Dbzjqvyqosvyqvsfnvstbpshnggrhbesvrsfbsqvsvyjhsgqivjandqisvjubsdni jom
qocpybibsobqi.sQoesvyrnmysqddsyqoehsaruurodcsejheqjobesvybsaqgvnibsrt
vyrhbsjotbijrisaibqvnibh;sqoesvyrnmysvybsGblnrespqhsorvsaruujhhjrobesvr
ainjhbstrisvybusqvsqdd,sqoesvyrnmyshybsyqesgqhhbesonufbihsrtsvybusobqi
vybsAirwbvvhspjvyrnvsdrpbijomsqsfrqv;scbvsorpsvyqvsqsHgbiusPyqdbsyqe
fbbosfirnmyvsqdromhjebsqoesfbybqebe,svrsvybshnigijhbsrtsqdd,svyb
qoornoabubovspqhsuqebsvyqvsqsIjmyvsPyqdbshyrndesfbsaqgvnibesvyqvseqc,
jtsrggrivnojvcsrttbibe.

Orispqhsvyjhsdromspqovjom.sVqddshgrnvhspbibshbbosvrsdbbpqie;sqoesvpr
frqvh,sHvnff’hsqoesTdqh ’h,spbibsebvqaybesjosgnihnjv.sGnddjomstnivybi
qoestnivybisqpqc,svybcsqvsdqhvsfbaqubsqdurhvsjozjhjfdbsvrsvybsubosqv
vybsuqhv-ybqe.sFnvshneebodcsjosvybsejhvqoab,svybcshqpsqsmibqvsybqgsrt
vnundvnrnhspyjvbspqvbi,sqoeshrrosqtvbisobphsaqubstirusqdrtvsvyqvsrobsri
frvysvybsfrqvhsunhvsfbstqhv.sQosjovbizqdsgqhhbesqoesvybsfrqvhspbibsjo
gdqjoshjmyv,sjosvybsqavsrtsfbjomseiqmmbesijmyvsvrpqiehsvybshyjgsfcsvyb
vrpjomspyqdb.sHrsadrhbsejesvybsurohvbisarubsvrsvybsyndd,svyqvsqvstjihv
jvshbbubesqhsjtsybsubqovsjvsuqdjab;sfnvshneebodcsmrjomserposjosq
uqbdhviru,spjvyjosvyibbsirehsrtsvybsgdqo h,sybspyrddcsejhqggbqibestiru
zjbp,sqhsjtsejzjomsnoebisvybs bbd.s“Anv,sanv!”spqhsvybsaicstirusvyb
hyjgsvrsvybsfrqvh,spyjay,strisrobsjohvqov,shbbubesrosvybsgrjovsrtsfbjom
firnmyvspjvysqsebqedcseqhysqmqjohvsvybszbhhbd’hshjeb.sFnvsyqzjomsgdbovc
rtsdjobscbvsjosvybsvnfh,sqoesvybspyqdbsorvshrnoejomszbicsiqgjedc,svybc
gqjesrnvsqfnoeqoabsrtsirgb,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsgnddbespjvysqddsvybji
ujmyvshrsqhsvrsmbvsqybqesrtsvybshyjg.sTrisqstbpsujonvbhsvybshvinmmdb
pqhsjovbohbdcsaijvjaqd;strispyjdbsvybcshvjddshdqa besrnvsvybsvjmyvbobe
djobsjosrobsejibavjro,sqoeshvjddsgdjbesvybjisrqihsjosqorvybi,svyb
arovboejomshviqjosvyibqvbobesvrsvq bsvybusnoebi.sFnvsjvspqhsrodcsqstbp
tbbvsqezqoabsvybcshrnmyvsvrsmqjo.sQoesvybcshvna svrsjvsvjddsvybcseje
mqjosjv;spybosjohvqovdc,sqshpjtvsviburispqhstbdvsinoojomsdj bsdjmyvojom
qdromsvybs bbd,sqhsvybshviqjobesdjob,shaiqgjomsfbobqvysvybshyjg,
hneebodcsirhbsvrszjbpsnoebisybisfrph,shoqggjomsqoeslnjzbijom;sqoeshr
tdjomjomsrttsjvhseijggjomh,svyqvsvybseirghstbddsdj bsfjvhsrtsfir bo
mdqhhsrosvybspqvbi,spyjdbsvybspyqdbsfbcroesqdhrsirhbsvrshjmyv,sqoesroab
uribsvybsfrqvhspbibstibbsvrstdc.sFnvsvybstqmmbespyqdbsqfqvbesyjhshgbbe,
qoesfdjoedcsqdvbijomsyjhsarnihb,spbovsirnoesvybshvbiosrtsvybshyjg
vrpjomsvybsvprsfrqvhsqtvbisyju,shrsvyqvsvybcsgbitriubesqsarugdbvb
ajianjv.

Ubqovjub,svybcsyqndbesuribsqoesuribsngrosvybjisdjobh,svjddsadrhb
tdqo jomsyjusrosfrvyshjebh,sHvnffsqohpbibesTdqh spjvysdqoabstrisdqoab;
qoesvynhsirnoesqoesirnoesvybsGblnresvybsfqvvdbspbov,spyjdbsvyb
undvjvnebhsrtshyqi hsvyqvsyqesfbtribshpnusirnoesvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsfrec,
inhybesvrsvybstibhysfdrresvyqvspqhshgjddbe,svyjihvjdcseijo jomsqvsbzbic
obpsmqhy,sqhsvybsbqmbisJhiqbdjvbhsejesqvsvybsobpsfnihvjomstrnovqjoh
vyqvsgrnibestirusvybshujvvbosira .

Qvsdqhvsyjhshgrnvsmibpsvyja ,sqoespjvysqstijmyvtndsirddsqoeszrujv,syb
vniobesngrosyjhsfqa sqsarighb.

Pyjdbsvybsvprsybqehubospbibsbomqmbesjosuq jomstqhvsariehsvrsyjhstdn bh,
qoesjosrvybispqchsmbvvjomsvybsuqhhsjosibqejobhhstrisvrpjom,shrub
arozbihqvjrosbohnbesfbvpbbosvybu.

“Jsproebispyqvsvybsrdesuqospqovhspjvysvyjhsdnugsrtstrndsdqie,”shqje
Hvnff,sorvspjvyrnvshrubsejhmnhvsqvsvybsvyrnmyvsrtsyqzjomsvrserspjvyshr
jmorfdbsqsdbzjqvyqo.

“Pqovhspjvysjv?”shqjesTdqh ,sarjdjomshrubshgqibsdjobsjosvybsfrqv’hsfrp,
“ejescrnsobzbisybqisvyqvsvybshyjgspyjaysfnvsroabsyqhsqsHgbiusPyqdb’h
ybqesyrjhvbesrosybishvqifrqieshjeb,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsqsIjmyv
Pyqdb’hsrosvybsdqifrqie;sejescrnsobzbisybqi,sHvnff,svyqvsvyqvshyjgsaqo
obzbisqtvbipqiehsaqghjwb?”

“Pycsorv?

“Jsero’vs orp,sfnvsJsybqiesvyqvsmqufrmbsmyrhvsrtsqsTbeqddqyshqcjomshr,
qoesybshbbuhsvrs orpsqddsqfrnvshyjgh’sayqiuh.sFnvsJshrubvjubhsvyjo 
yb’ddsayqiusvybshyjgsvrsorsmrresqvsdqhv.sJsero’vsyqdtsdj bsvyqvsayqg,
Hvnff.sEjescrnsbzbisorvjabsyrpsvyqvsvnh srtsyjhsjhsqshrivsrtsaqizbe
jovrsqshoq b’hsybqe,sHvnff?”

“Hjo syju!sJsobzbisdrr sqvsyjusqvsqdd;sfnvsjtsbzbisJsmbvsqsayqoabsrtsq
eqi sojmyv,sqoesybshvqoejomsyqiesfcsvybsfndpqi h,sqoesorsrobsfc;sdrr 
erposvybib,sTdqh ”—grjovjomsjovrsvybshbqspjvysqsgbandjqisurvjrosrtsfrvy
yqoeh—“Qcb,spjddsJ!sTdqh ,sJsvq bsvyqvsTbeqddqysvrsfbsvybsebzjdsjo
ejhmnjhb.sErscrnsfbdjbzbsvyqvsara sqoesfnddshvricsqfrnvsyjhsyqzjomsfbbo
hvrpbesqpqcsrosfrqieshyjg?sYb’hsvybsebzjd,sJshqc.sVybsibqhrospycscrn
ero’vshbbsyjhsvqjd,sjhsfbaqnhbsybsvna hsjvsngsrnvsrtshjmyv;sybsaqiijbh
jvsarjdbesqpqcsjosyjhsgra bv,sJsmnbhh.sFdqhvsyju!sorpsvyqvsJsvyjo srt
jv,syb’hsqdpqchspqovjomsrq nusvrshvnttsjovrsvybsvrbhsrtsyjhsfrrvh.”

“Ybshdbbghsjosyjhsfrrvh,sero’vsyb?sYbsyqho’vsmrvsqocsyquura ;sfnvsJ’zb
hbbosyjusdqcsrtsojmyvhsjosqsarjdsrtsijmmjom.”

“Orsernfv,sqoesjv’hsfbaqnhbsrtsyjhsanihbesvqjd;sybsarjdhsjvserpo,serscb
hbb,sjosvybsbcbsrtsvybsijmmjom.”

“Pyqv’hsvybsrdesuqosyqzbshrsunaysvrserspjvysyjustri?”

“Hvij jomsngsqshpqgsrisqsfqimqjo,sJshnggrhb.”

“Fqimqjo?—qfrnvspyqv?”

“Pyc,serscbshbb,svybsrdesuqosjhsyqiesfbovsqtvbisvyqvsPyjvbsPyqdb,sqoe
vybsebzjdsvybibsjhsvicjomsvrsarubsirnoesyju,sqoesmbvsyjusvrshpqgsqpqc
yjhshjdzbispqvay,srisyjhshrnd,srishrubvyjomsrtsvyqvshriv,sqoesvybo
yb’ddshniiboebisUrfcsEja .”

“Grry!sHvnff,scrnsqibsh cdqi jom;syrpsaqosTbeqddqysersvyqv?”

“Jsero’vs orp,sTdqh ,sfnvsvybsebzjdsjhsqsanijrnhsayqg,sqoesqspja be
rob,sJsvbddscb.sPyc,svybcshqcsqhsyrpsybspbovsqshqnovbijomsjovrsvybsrde
tdqm-hyjgsroab,shpjvayjomsyjhsvqjdsqfrnvsebzjdjhysbqhcsqoe
mbovdbuqodj b,sqoesjolnjijomsjtsvybsrdesmrzbiorispqhsqvsyrub.sPbdd,syb
pqhsqvsyrub,sqoesqh besvybsebzjdspyqvsybspqovbe.sVybsebzjd,shpjvayjom
yjhsyrrth,sngsqoeshqch,s‘JspqovsKryo.’s‘Pyqvstri?’shqchsvybsrde
mrzbiori.s‘Pyqvsfnhjobhhsjhsvyqvsrtscrnih,’shqchsvybsebzjd,smbvvjom
uqe,—‘Jspqovsvrsnhbsyju.’s‘Vq bsyju,’shqchsvybsmrzbiori—qoesfcsvyb
Drie,sTdqh ,sjtsvybsebzjdsejeo’vsmjzbsKryosvybsQhjqvjasayrdbiqsfbtrib
ybsmrvsvyirnmyspjvysyju,sJ’ddsbqvsvyjhspyqdbsjosrobsurnvytnd.sFnvsdrr 
hyqig—qjo’vscrnsqddsibqecsvybib?sPbdd,svybo,sgnddsqybqe,sqoesdbv’hsmbv
vybspyqdbsqdromhjeb.”

“Jsvyjo sJsibubufbishrubshnayshvricsqhscrnspbibsvbddjom,”shqjesTdqh ,
pybosqvsdqhvsvybsvprsfrqvhspbibshdrpdcsqezqoajomspjvysvybjisfniebo
vrpqiehsvybshyjg,s“fnvsJsaqo’vsibubufbispybib.”

“VyibbsHgqojqieh?sQezbovnibhsrtsvyrhbsvyibbsfdrrec-ujoebeshrdeqerbh?
Ejescbsibqesjvsvybib,sTdqh ?sJsmnbhhscbseje?”

“Or:sobzbishqpshnaysqsfrr ;sybqiesrtsjv,svyrnmy.sFnvsorp,svbddsub,
Hvnff,serscrnshnggrhbsvyqvsvyqvsebzjdscrnspqhshgbq jomsrtsknhvsorp,spqh
vybshqubscrnshqcsjhsorpsrosfrqiesvybsGblnre?”

“QusJsvybshqubsuqosvyqvsybdgbes jddsvyjhspyqdb?sErbho’vsvybsebzjdsdjzb
trisbzbi;spyrsbzbisybqiesvyqvsvybsebzjdspqhsebqe?sEjescrnsbzbishbbsqoc
gqihrosqspbqijomsurniojomstrisvybsebzjd?sQoesjtsvybsebzjdsyqhsq
dqvay- bcsvrsmbvsjovrsvybsqeujiqd’hsaqfjo,sero’vscrnshnggrhbsybsaqo
aiqpdsjovrsqsgrivyrdb?sVbddsubsvyqv,sUi.sTdqh ?”

“YrpsrdeserscrnshnggrhbsTbeqddqysjh,sHvnff?”

“Erscrnshbbsvyqvsuqjouqhvsvybib?”sgrjovjomsvrsvybshyjg;s“pbdd,svyqv’h
vybstjmnibsrob;sorpsvq bsqddsvybsyrrghsjosvybsGblnre’hsyrde,sqoeshvijom
qdromsjosqsirpspjvysvyqvsuqhv,strisrnmyvh,serscrnshbb;spbdd,svyqv
prndeo’vsfbmjosvrsfbsTbeqddqy’hsqmb.sOrisqddsvybsarrgbihsjosaibqvjro
arndeo’vshyrpsyrrghsbornmysvrsuq bsrnmyvhsbornmy.”

“Fnvshbbsybib,sHvnff,sJsvyrnmyvscrnsqsdjvvdbsfrqhvbesknhvsorp,svyqvscrn
ubqovsvrsmjzbsTbeqddqysqshbq-vrhh,sjtscrnsmrvsqsmrresayqoab.sOrp,sjt
yb’hshrsrdesqhsqddsvyrhbsyrrghsrtscrnihsarubsvr,sqoesjtsybsjhsmrjomsvr
djzbstrisbzbi,spyqvsmrrespjddsjvsersvrsgjvaysyjusrzbifrqie—vbddsub
vyqv?

“Mjzbsyjusqsmrresena jom,sqocyrp.”

“Fnvsyb’esaiqpdsfqa .”

“Ena syjusqmqjo;sqoes bbgsena jomsyju.”

“Hnggrhbsybshyrndesvq bsjvsjovrsyjhsybqesvrsena scrn,svyrnmy—cbh,sqoe
eirposcrn—pyqvsvybo?”

“Jshyrndesdj bsvrshbbsyjusvicsjv;sJ’esmjzbsyjushnaysqsgqjisrtsfdqa 
bcbhsvyqvsybsprndeo’vseqibsvrshyrpsyjhstqabsjosvybsqeujiqd’hsaqfjo
qmqjostrisqsdromspyjdb,sdbvsqdrobserposjosvybsridrgsvybib,spybibsyb
djzbh,sqoesybibqfrnvhsrosvybsnggbiseba hspybibsybshobq hshrsunay.sEquo
vybsebzjd,sTdqh ;shrscrnshnggrhbsJ’usqtiqjesrtsvybsebzjd?sPyr’hsqtiqje
rtsyju,sbxabgvsvybsrdesmrzbiorispyrseqibho’vsaqvaysyjusqoesgnvsyjusjo
ernfdb-eqifjbh,sqhsybsebhbizbh,sfnvsdbvhsyjusmrsqfrnvs jeoqggjom
gbrgdb;sqcb,sqoeshjmobesqsfroespjvysyju,svyqvsqddsvybsgbrgdbsvybsebzjd
 jeoqggbe,syb’esirqhvstrisyju?sVybib’hsqsmrzbiori!”

“ErscrnshnggrhbsTbeqddqyspqovhsvrs jeoqgsAqgvqjosQyqf?”

“ErsJshnggrhbsjv?sCrn’dds orpsjvsfbtribsdrom,sTdqh .sFnvsJsqusmrjomsorp
vrs bbgsqshyqigsdrr -rnvsrosyju;sqoesjtsJshbbsqocvyjomszbicshnhgjajrnh
mrjomsro,sJ’ddsknhvsvq bsyjusfcsvybsoqgbsrtsyjhsoba ,sqoeshqc—Drr 
ybib,sFbbdwbfnf,scrnsero’vsersjv;sqoesjtsybsuq bhsqocstnhh,sfcsvybsDrie
J’ddsuq bsqsmiqfsjovrsyjhsgra bvstrisyjhsvqjd,svq bsjvsvrsvybsaqghvqo,
qoesmjzbsyjushnaysqspiboayjomsqoesybqzjom,svyqvsyjhsvqjdspjddsarub
hyrivsrttsqvsvybshvnug—erscrnshbb;sqoesvybo,sJsiqvybismnbhhspybosyb
tjoehsyjuhbdtsera besjosvyqvslnbbistqhyjro,syb’ddshobq srttspjvyrnvsvyb
grrishqvjhtqavjrosrtstbbdjomsyjhsvqjdsfbvpbbosyjhsdbmh.”

“Qoespyqvspjddscrnserspjvysvybsvqjd,sHvnff?”

“Erspjvysjv?sHbddsjvstrisqosrxspyjgspybospbsmbvsyrub;—pyqvsbdhb?”

“Orp,serscrnsubqospyqvscrnshqc,sqoesyqzbsfbboshqcjomsqddsqdrom,sHvnff?”

“Ubqosrisorvsubqo,sybibspbsqibsqvsvybshyjg.”

Vybsfrqvhspbibsybibsyqjdbe,svrsvrpsvybspyqdbsrosvybsdqifrqieshjeb,
pybibstdn bsayqjohsqoesrvybisobabhhqijbhspbibsqdibqecsgibgqibestri
hbanijomsyju.

“Ejeo’vsJsvbddscrnshr?”shqjesTdqh ;s“cbh,scrn’ddshrroshbbsvyjhsijmyv
pyqdb’hsybqesyrjhvbesngsrggrhjvbsvyqvsgqiuqabvvj’h.”

Josmrresvjub,sTdqh ’hshqcjomsgirzbesvinb.sQhsfbtrib,svybsGblnreshvbbgdc
dbqobesrzbisvrpqiehsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hsybqe,sorp,sfcsvybsarnovbigrjhbsrt
frvysybqeh,shybsibmqjobesybisbzbos bbd;svyrnmyshribdcshviqjobe,scrnsuqc
pbddsfbdjbzb.sHr,spybosrosrobshjebscrnsyrjhvsjosDra b’hsybqe,scrnsmr
rzbisvyqvspqc;sfnvsorp,srosvybsrvybishjeb,syrjhvsjos qov’hsqoescrnsarub
fqa sqmqjo;sfnvsjoszbicsgrrisgdjmyv.sVynh,shrubsujoehstrisbzbis bbg
vijuujomsfrqv.sRy,scbstrrdjhy!svyirpsqddsvybhbsvynoebi-ybqehsrzbifrqie,
qoesvyboscrnspjddstdrqvsdjmyvsqoesijmyv.

Josejhgrhjomsrtsvybsfrecsrtsqsijmyvspyqdb,spybosfirnmyvsqdromhjebsvyb
hyjg,svybshqubsgibdjujoqicsgirabbejomhsaruurodcsvq bsgdqabsqhsjosvyb
aqhbsrtsqshgbiuspyqdb;srodc,sjosvybsdqvvbisjohvqoab,svybsybqesjhsanv
rttspyrdb,sfnvsjosvybstriubisvybsdjghsqoesvromnbsqibshbgqiqvbdcsiburzbe
qoesyrjhvbesroseba ,spjvysqddsvybspbdds orposfdqa sfrobsqvvqaybesvr
pyqvsjhsaqddbesvybsairpo-gjbab.sFnvsorvyjomsdj bsvyjh,sjosvybsgibhbov
aqhb,syqesfbboserob.sVybsaqiaqhbhsrtsfrvyspyqdbhsyqeseirggbesqhvbio;
qoesvybsybqe-dqeboshyjgsorvsqsdjvvdbsibhbufdbesqsundbsaqiicjomsqsgqji
rtsrzbifniebojomsgqoojbih.

Ubqovjub,sTbeqddqyspqhsaqdudcsbcbjomsvybsijmyvspyqdb’hsybqe,sqoesbzbi
qoesqorosmdqoajomstirusvybsebbgspijo dbhsvybibsvrsvybsdjobhsjosyjhsrpo
yqoe.sQoesQyqfsayqoabeshrsvrshvqoe,svyqvsvybsGqihbbsraangjbesyjh
hyqerp;spyjdb,sjtsvybsGqihbb’hshyqerpspqhsvybibsqvsqddsjvshbbubesrodc
vrsfdboespjvy,sqoesdbomvybosQyqf’h.sQhsvybsaibpsvrjdbesro,sDqgdqoejhy
hgbandqvjrohspbibsfqoejbesquromsvybu,saroabiojomsqddsvybhbsgqhhjom
vyjomh.


AYQGVBIs74.sVybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsYbqe—AroviqhvbesZjbp.

Ybib,sorp,sqibsvprsmibqvspyqdbh,sdqcjomsvybjisybqehsvrmbvybi;sdbvsnh
krjosvybu,sqoesdqcsvrmbvybisrnisrpo.

Rtsvybsmiqoesriebisrtstrdjrsdbzjqvyqoh,svybsHgbiusPyqdbsqoesvybsIjmyv
Pyqdbsqibsfcstqisvybsurhvsorvbprivyc.sVybcsqibsvybsrodcspyqdbh
ibmndqidcsynovbesfcsuqo.sVrsvybsOqovna bvbi,svybcsgibhbovsvybsvpr
bxvibubhsrtsqddsvybs orposzqijbvjbhsrtsvybspyqdb.sQhsvybsbxvbioqd
ejttbiboabsfbvpbbosvybusjhsuqjodcsrfhbizqfdbsjosvybjisybqeh;sqoesqhsq
ybqesrtsbqaysjhsvyjhsurubovsyqomjomstirusvybsGblnre’hshjeb;sqoesqhspb
uqcstibbdcsmrstirusrobsvrsvybsrvybi,sfcsubibdcshvbggjomsqairhhsvyb
eba :—pybib,sJshyrndesdj bsvrs orp,spjddscrnsrfvqjosqsfbvvbisayqoabsvr
hvnecsgiqavjaqdsabvrdrmcsvyqosybib?

Josvybstjihvsgdqab,scrnsqibshvina sfcsvybsmbobiqdsaroviqhvsfbvpbbo
vybhbsybqeh.sFrvysqibsuqhhjzbsbornmysjosqddsarohajboab;sfnvsvybibsjhsq
abivqjosuqvybuqvjaqdshcuubvicsjosvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hspyjaysvybsIjmyv
Pyqdb’hshqedcsdqa h.sVybibsjhsuribsayqiqavbisjosvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsybqe.
Qhscrnsfbyrdesjv,scrnsjozrdnovqijdcscjbdesvybsjuubohbshngbijrijvcsvr
yju,sjosgrjovsrtsgbizqejomsejmojvc.sJosvybsgibhbovsjohvqoab,svrr,svyjh
ejmojvcsjhsybjmyvbobesfcsvybsgbggbisqoeshqdvsardrnisrtsyjhsybqesqvsvyb
hnuujv,smjzjomsvr bosrtsqezqoabesqmbsqoesdqimbsbxgbijboab.sJoshyriv,syb
jhspyqvsvybstjhybiubosvbayojaqddcsaqddsqs“mibc-ybqebespyqdb.”

Dbvsnhsorpsorvbspyqvsjhsdbqhvsejhhjujdqisjosvybhbsybqeh—oqubdc,svybsvpr
urhvsjugrivqovsrimqoh,svybsbcbsqoesvybsbqi.sTqisfqa srosvybshjebsrtsvyb
ybqe,sqoesdrpserpo,sobqisvybsqomdbsrtsbjvybispyqdb’hskqp,sjtscrn
oqiirpdcshbqiay,scrnspjddsqvsdqhvshbbsqsdqhydbhhsbcb,spyjayscrnsprnde
tqoacsvrsfbsqscrnomsardv’hsbcb;shrsrnvsrtsqddsgirgrivjrosjhsjvsvrsvyb
uqmojvnebsrtsvybsybqe.

Orp,stirusvyjhsgbandjqishjebpqcsgrhjvjrosrtsvybspyqdb’hsbcbh,sjvsjh
gdqjosvyqvsybsaqosobzbishbbsqosrfkbavspyjaysjhsbxqavdcsqybqe,sorsurib
vyqosybsaqosrobsbxqavdcsqhvbio.sJosqsprie,svybsgrhjvjrosrtsvybspyqdb’h
bcbhsariibhgroehsvrsvyqvsrtsqsuqo’hsbqih;sqoescrnsuqcstqoac,stri
crnihbdt,syrpsjvsprndestqibspjvyscrn,sejescrnshjebpqchshnizbcsrfkbavh
vyirnmyscrnisbqih.sCrnsprndestjoesvyqvscrnsarndesrodcsaruuqoeshrub
vyjivcsebmibbhsrtszjhjrosjosqezqoabsrtsvybshviqjmyvshjeb-djobsrtshjmyv;
qoesqfrnvsvyjivcsuribsfbyjoesjv.sJtscrnisfjvvbibhvstrbspbibspqd jom
hviqjmyvsvrpqiehscrn,spjvyseqmmbisngdjtvbesjosfirqeseqc,scrnsprndesorv
fbsqfdbsvrshbbsyju,sqocsuribsvyqosjtsybspbibshvbqdjomsngroscrnstiru
fbyjoe.sJosqsprie,scrnsprndesyqzbsvprsfqa h,shrsvrshgbq ;sfnv,sqvsvyb
hqubsvjub,sqdhr,svprstirovhs(hjebstirovh):strispyqvsjhsjvsvyqvsuq bh
vybstirovsrtsqsuqo—pyqv,sjoebbe,sfnvsyjhsbcbh?

Uribrzbi,spyjdbsjosurhvsrvybisqojuqdhsvyqvsJsaqosorpsvyjo srt,svybsbcbh
qibshrsgdqovbesqhsjugbiabgvjfdcsvrsfdboesvybjiszjhnqdsgrpbi,shrsqhsvr
girenabsrobsgjavnibsqoesorvsvprsvrsvybsfiqjo;svybsgbandjqisgrhjvjrosrt
vybspyqdb’hsbcbh,sbttbavnqddcsejzjebesqhsvybcsqibsfcsuqocsanfjastbbvsrt
hrdjesybqe,spyjaysvrpbihsfbvpbbosvybusdj bsqsmibqvsurnovqjoshbgqiqvjom
vprsdq bhsjoszqddbch;svyjh,srtsarnihb,sunhvspyrddcshbgqiqvbsvyb
jugibhhjrohspyjaysbqaysjoebgboebovsrimqosjugqivh.sVybspyqdb,svybibtrib,
unhvshbbsrobsejhvjoavsgjavnibsrosvyjhshjeb,sqoesqorvybisejhvjoav
gjavnibsrosvyqvshjeb;spyjdbsqddsfbvpbbosunhvsfbsgirtrnoeseqi obhhsqoe
orvyjomobhhsvrsyju.sUqosuqc,sjosbttbav,sfbshqjesvrsdrr srnvsrosvyb
pridestirusqshbovic-frxspjvysvprskrjobeshqhybhstrisyjhspjoerp.sFnvspjvy
vybspyqdb,svybhbsvprshqhybhsqibshbgqiqvbdcsjohbivbe,suq jomsvpr
ejhvjoavspjoerph,sfnvshqedcsjugqjijomsvybszjbp.sVyjhsgbandjqijvcsrtsvyb
pyqdb’hsbcbhsjhsqsvyjomsqdpqchsvrsfbsfriobsjosujoesjosvybstjhybic;sqoe
vrsfbsibubufbibesfcsvybsibqebisjoshrubshnfhblnbovshabobh.

Qsanijrnhsqoesurhvsgnwwdjomslnbhvjrosujmyvsfbshvqivbesaroabiojomsvyjh
zjhnqdsuqvvbisqhsvrnayjomsvybsDbzjqvyqo.sFnvsJsunhvsfbsarovbovspjvysq
yjov.sHrsdromsqhsqsuqo’hsbcbhsqibsrgbosjosvybsdjmyv,svybsqavsrtshbbjom
jhsjozrdnovqic;svyqvsjh,sybsaqoorvsvybosybdgsubayqojaqddcshbbjom
pyqvbzbisrfkbavhsqibsfbtribsyju.sObzbivybdbhh,sqocsrob’hsbxgbijboab
pjddsvbqaysyju,svyqvsvyrnmysybsaqosvq bsjosqosnoejhaijujoqvjomshpbbgsrt
vyjomhsqvsrobsmdqoab,sjvsjhslnjvbsjugrhhjfdbstrisyju,sqvvbovjzbdc,sqoe
arugdbvbdc,svrsbxqujobsqocsvprsvyjomh—yrpbzbisdqimbsrisyrpbzbishuqdd—qv
robsqoesvybshqubsjohvqovsrtsvjub;sobzbisujoesjtsvybcsdjbshjebsfcshjeb
qoesvrnaysbqaysrvybi.sFnvsjtscrnsorpsarubsvrshbgqiqvbsvybhbsvpr
rfkbavh,sqoeshniirnoesbqaysfcsqsajiadbsrtsgirtrnoeseqi obhh;svybo,sjo
riebisvrshbbsrobsrtsvybu,sjoshnaysqsuqoobisqhsvrsfijomscrnisujoesvr
fbqisrosjv,svybsrvybispjddsfbsnvvbidcsbxadnebestiruscrnisarovbugriqic
arohajrnhobhh.sYrpsjhsjv,svybo,spjvysvybspyqdb?sVinb,sfrvysyjhsbcbh,sjo
vybuhbdzbh,sunhvshjundvqobrnhdcsqav;sfnvsjhsyjhsfiqjoshrsunaysurib
arugibybohjzb,sarufjojom,sqoeshnfvdbsvyqosuqo’h,svyqvsybsaqosqvsvyb
hqubsurubovsrtsvjubsqvvbovjzbdcsbxqujobsvprsejhvjoavsgirhgbavh,srobsro
robshjebsrtsyju,sqoesvybsrvybisjosqosbxqavdcsrggrhjvbsejibavjro?sJtsyb
aqo,svybosjhsjvsqhsuqizbddrnhsqsvyjomsjosyju,sqhsjtsqsuqospbibsqfdb
hjundvqobrnhdcsvrsmrsvyirnmysvybseburohviqvjrohsrtsvprsejhvjoav
girfdbuhsjosBnadje.sOri,shvijavdcsjozbhvjmqvbe,sjhsvybibsqoc
joarominjvcsjosvyjhsarugqijhro.

Jvsuqcsfbsfnvsqosjedbspyju,sfnvsjvsyqhsqdpqchshbbubesvrsub,svyqvsvyb
bxviqriejoqicszqajddqvjrohsrtsurzbubovsejhgdqcbesfcshrubspyqdbhspybo
fbhbvsfcsvyibbsristrnisfrqvh;svybsvjujejvcsqoesdjqfjdjvcsvrslnbbi
tijmyvh,shrsaruurosvrshnayspyqdbh;sJsvyjo svyqvsqddsvyjhsjoejibavdc
girabbehstirusvybsybdgdbhhsgbigdbxjvcsrtszrdjvjro,sjospyjaysvybji
ejzjebesqoesejqubvijaqddcsrggrhjvbsgrpbihsrtszjhjrosunhvsjozrdzbsvybu.

Fnvsvybsbqisrtsvybspyqdbsjhstnddsqhsanijrnhsqhsvybsbcb.sJtscrnsqibsqo
bovjibshviqombisvrsvybjisiqab,scrnsujmyvsynovsrzbisvybhbsvprsybqehstri
yrnih,sqoesobzbisejharzbisvyqvsrimqo.sVybsbqisyqhsorsbxvbioqdsdbqt
pyqvbzbi;sqoesjovrsvybsyrdbsjvhbdtscrnsaqosyqiedcsjohbivsqslnjdd,shr
proeirnhdcsujonvbsjhsjv.sJvsjhsdrembesqsdjvvdbsfbyjoesvybsbcb.sPjvy
ibhgbavsvrsvybjisbqih,svyjhsjugrivqovsejttbiboabsjhsvrsfbsrfhbizbe
fbvpbbosvybshgbiuspyqdbsqoesvybsijmyv.sPyjdbsvybsbqisrtsvybstriubisyqh
qosbxvbioqdsrgbojom,svyqvsrtsvybsdqvvbisjhsbovjibdcsqoesbzbodcsarzbibe
rzbispjvysqsubufiqob,shrsqhsvrsfbslnjvbsjugbiabgvjfdbstiruspjvyrnv.

Jhsjvsorvsanijrnh,svyqvshrszqhvsqsfbjomsqhsvybspyqdbshyrndeshbbsvyb
pridesvyirnmyshrshuqddsqosbcb,sqoesybqisvybsvynoebisvyirnmysqosbqi
pyjaysjhshuqddbisvyqosqsyqib’h?sFnvsjtsyjhsbcbhspbibsfirqesqhsvybsdboh
rtsYbihaybd’hsmibqvsvbdbhargb;sqoesyjhsbqihsaqgqajrnhsqhsvybsgriaybhsrt
aqvybeiqdh;sprndesvyqvsuq bsyjusqocsdrombisrtshjmyv,srishyqigbisrt
ybqijom?sOrvsqvsqdd.—Pycsvyboserscrnsvicsvrs“bodqimb”scrnisujoe?
Hnfvjdjwbsjv.

Dbvsnhsorpspjvyspyqvbzbisdbzbihsqoeshvbqu-bomjobhspbsyqzbsqvsyqoe,saqov
rzbisvybshgbiuspyqdb’hsybqe,svyqvsjvsuqcsdjbsfrvvrusng;svybo,sqhaboejom
fcsqsdqeebisvrsvybshnuujv,syqzbsqsgbbgserposvybsurnvy;sqoespbibsjvsorv
vyqvsvybsfrecsjhsorpsarugdbvbdcshbgqiqvbestirusjv,spjvysqsdqovbiospb
ujmyvsebhaboesjovrsvybsmibqvs bovna csUquurvysAqzbsrtsyjhshvruqay.sFnv
dbvsnhsyrdesrosybibsfcsvyjhsvrrvy,sqoesdrr sqfrnvsnhspybibspbsqib.sPyqv
qsibqddcsfbqnvjtndsqoesayqhvb-drr jomsurnvy!stirustdrrisvrsabjdjom,
djobe,srisiqvybisgqgbibespjvysqsmdjhvbojomspyjvbsubufiqob,smdrhhcsqh
fijeqdshqvjoh.

Fnvsarubsrnvsorp,sqoesdrr sqvsvyjhsgrivbovrnhsdrpbiskqp,spyjayshbbuh
dj bsvybsdromsoqiirpsdjesrtsqosjuubohbshontt-frx,spjvysvybsyjombsqvsrob
boe,sjohvbqesrtsrobshjeb.sJtscrnsgicsjvsng,shrsqhsvrsmbvsjvsrzbiybqe,
qoesbxgrhbsjvhsirphsrtsvbbvy,sjvshbbuhsqsvbiijtjasgrivanddjh;sqoeshnay,
qdqh!sjvsgirzbhsvrsuqocsqsgrrispjmyvsjosvybstjhybic,sngrospyrusvybhb
hgj bhstqddspjvysjugqdjomstriab.sFnvstqisuribsvbiijfdbsjhsjvsvrsfbyrde,
pybostqvyruhserposjosvybshbq,scrnshbbshrubshnd cspyqdb,stdrqvjomsvybib
hnhgboebe,spjvysyjhsgirejmjrnhskqp,shrubstjtvbbostbbvsdrom,syqomjom
hviqjmyvserposqvsijmyv-qomdbhspjvysyjhsfrec,strisqddsvybspridesdj bsq
hyjg’hskjf-frru.sVyjhspyqdbsjhsorvsebqe;sybsjhsrodcsejhgjijvbe;srnvsrt
hrivh,sgbiyqgh;sycgrayroeijqa;sqoeshrshngjob,svyqvsvybsyjombhsrtsyjh
kqpsyqzbsibdqxbe,sdbqzjomsyjusvybibsjosvyqvsnomqjodcshrivsrtsgdjmyv,sq
ibgirqaysvrsqddsyjhsvijfb,spyrsunhv,sorsernfv,sjugibaqvbsdra -kqphsngro
yju.

Josurhvsaqhbhsvyjhsdrpbiskqp—fbjomsbqhjdcsnoyjombesfcsqsgiqavjhbe
qivjhv—jhsejhbomqmbesqoesyrjhvbesroseba strisvybsgnigrhbsrtsbxviqavjom
vybsjzricsvbbvy,sqoestniojhyjomsqshnggdcsrtsvyqvsyqiespyjvbspyqdbfrob
pjvyspyjaysvybstjhybiubostqhyjrosqddshrivhsrtsanijrnhsqivjadbh,
joadnejomsaqobh,snufibddq-hvra h,sqoesyqoedbhsvrsijejom-pyjgh.

Pjvysqsdrom,spbqicsyrjhvsvybskqpsjhseiqmmbesrosfrqie,sqhsjtsjvspbibsqo
qoayri;sqoespybosvybsgirgbisvjubsarubh—hrubstbpseqchsqtvbisvybsrvybi
pri —Lnbblnbm,sEqmmrr,sqoesVqhyvbmr,sfbjomsqddsqaarugdjhybesebovjhvh,
qibshbvsvrseiqpjomsvbbvy.sPjvysqs bbosanvvjom-hgqeb,sLnbblnbmsdqoabh
vybsmnuh;svybosvybskqpsjhsdqhybeserposvrsijomfrdvh,sqoesqsvqa dbsfbjom
ijmmbestirusqdrtv,svybcseiqmsrnvsvybhbsvbbvy,sqhsUjayjmqosrxboseiqm
hvnughsrtsrdesrq hsrnvsrtspjdesprresdqoeh.sVybibsqibsmbobiqddc
trivc-vprsvbbvysjosqdd;sjosrdespyqdbh,sunaysprioserpo,sfnvsnoebaqcbe;
oristjddbesqtvbisrnisqivjtjajqdstqhyjro.sVybskqpsjhsqtvbipqiehshqpo
jovrshdqfh,sqoesgjdbesqpqcsdj bskrjhvhstrisfnjdejomsyrnhbh.


AYQGVBIs75.sVybsIjmyvsPyqdb’hsYbqe—AroviqhvbesZjbp.

Airhhjomsvybseba ,sdbvsnhsorpsyqzbsqsmrresdromsdrr sqvsvybsIjmyv
Pyqdb’hsybqe.

QhsjosmbobiqdshyqgbsvybsorfdbsHgbiusPyqdb’hsybqesuqcsfbsarugqibesvrsq
Iruqospqi-ayqijrvs(bhgbajqddcsjostirov,spybibsjvsjhshrsfirqedc
irnoebe);shr,sqvsqsfirqeszjbp,svybsIjmyvsPyqdb’hsybqesfbqihsqsiqvybi
jobdbmqovsibhbufdqoabsvrsqsmjmqovjasmqddjrv-vrbeshyrb.sVprsynoeibe
cbqihsqmrsqosrdesEnvayszrcqmbisdj bobesjvhshyqgbsvrsvyqvsrtsq
hyrbuq bi’hsdqhv.sQoesjosvyjhshqubsdqhvsrishyrb,svyqvsrdespruqosrtsvyb
onihbicsvqdb,spjvysvybshpqiujomsfirre,sujmyvszbicsarutrivqfdcsfb
drembe,shybsqoesqddsybisgirmboc.

Fnvsqhscrnsarubsobqibisvrsvyjhsmibqvsybqesjvsfbmjohsvrsqhhnubsejttbibov
qhgbavh,sqaariejomsvrscrnisgrjovsrtszjbp.sJtscrnshvqoesrosjvhshnuujv
qoesdrr sqvsvybhbsvprsT-hyqgbeshgrnvyrdbh,scrnsprndesvq bsvybspyrdb
ybqestrisqosboriurnhsfqhh-zjrd,sqoesvybhbshgjiqadbh,svybsqgbivnibhsjo
jvhshrnoejom-frqie.sVybo,sqmqjo,sjtscrnstjxscrnisbcbsngrosvyjhshviqomb,
aibhvbe,saruf-dj bsjoainhvqvjrosrosvybsvrgsrtsvybsuqhh—vyjhsmibbo,
fqioqadbesvyjom,spyjaysvybsMibbodqoebihsaqddsvybs“airpo,”sqoesvyb
Hrnvybiostjhybihsvybs“froobv”srtsvybsIjmyvsPyqdb;stjxjomscrnisbcbh
hrdbdcsrosvyjh,scrnsprndesvq bsvybsybqestrisvybsvino srtshrubsynmbsrq ,
pjvysqsfjie’hsobhvsjosjvhsairvay.sQvsqocsiqvb,spyboscrnspqvaysvyrhb
djzbsaiqfhsvyqvsobhvdbsybibsrosvyjhsfroobv,shnaysqosjebqspjddsfbsqdurhv
hnibsvrsraanisvrscrn;snodbhh,sjoebbe,scrnistqoacsyqhsfbbostjxbesfcsvyb
vbayojaqdsvbius“airpo”sqdhrsfbhvrpbesngrosjv;sjospyjaysaqhbscrnspjdd
vq bsmibqvsjovbibhvsjosvyjo jomsyrpsvyjhsujmyvcsurohvbisjhsqavnqddcsq
ejqebubes jomsrtsvybshbq,spyrhbsmibbosairposyqhsfbbosgnvsvrmbvybistri
yjusjosvyjhsuqizbddrnhsuqoobi.sFnvsjtsvyjhspyqdbsfbsqs jom,sybsjhsq
zbicshnd csdrr jomstbddrpsvrsmiqabsqsejqebu.sDrr sqvsvyqvsyqomjomsdrpbi
djg!spyqvsqsynmbshnd sqoesgrnvsjhsvybib!sqshnd sqoesgrnv,sfc
aqigbovbi’hsubqhnibubov,sqfrnvsvpbovcstbbvsdromsqoestjzbstbbvsebbg;sq
hnd sqoesgrnvsvyqvspjddscjbdescrnshrubs500smqddrohsrtsrjdsqoesurib.

Qsmibqvsgjvc,sorp,svyqvsvyjhsnotrivnoqvbspyqdbshyrndesfbsyqib-djggbe.
Vybstjhhnibsjhsqfrnvsqstrrvsqairhh.sGirfqfdcsvybsurvybisenijomsqo
jugrivqovsjovbizqdspqhshqjdjomserposvybsGbinzjqosarqhv,spybo
bqivylnq bhsaqnhbesvybsfbqaysvrsmqgb.sRzbisvyjhsdjg,sqhsrzbisqshdjggbic
vyibhyrde,spbsorpshdjebsjovrsvybsurnvy.sNgrosucspriespbibsJsqv
Uqa joqp,sJshyrndesvq bsvyjhsvrsfbsvybsjohjebsrtsqosJoejqospjmpqu.sMrre
Drie!sjhsvyjhsvybsirqesvyqvsKroqyspbov?sVybsirrtsjhsqfrnvsvpbdzbstbbv
yjmy,sqoesinohsvrsqsgibvvcshyqigsqomdb,sqhsjtsvybibspbibsqsibmndqi
ijemb-grdbsvybib;spyjdbsvybhbsijffbe,sqiaybe,syqjicshjebh,sgibhbovsnh
pjvysvyrhbsproeirnh,syqdtszbivjaqd,shajubvqi-hyqgbeshdqvhsrtspyqdbfrob,
hqcsvyibbsynoeibesrosqshjeb,spyjaysebgboejomstirusvybsnggbisgqivsrtsvyb
ybqesrisairposfrob,striusvyrhbsZbobvjqosfdjoehspyjaysyqzbsbdhbpybib
fbbosanihrijdcsubovjrobe.sVybsbembhsrtsvybhbsfrobhsqibstijombespjvy
yqjicstjfibh,svyirnmyspyjaysvybsIjmyvsPyqdbshviqjohsvybspqvbi,sqoesjo
pyrhbsjovijaqajbhsybsibvqjohsvybshuqddstjhy,spybosrgbournvybesybsmrbh
vyirnmysvybshbqhsrtsfijvsjostbbejomsvjub.sJosvybsaboviqdsfdjoehsrt
frob,sqhsvybcshvqoesjosvybjisoqvniqdsriebi,svybibsqibsabivqjosanijrnh
uqi h,sanizbh,syrddrph,sqoesijembh,spybibfcshrubspyqdbubosaqdandqvbsvyb
aibqvnib’hsqmb,sqhsvybsqmbsrtsqosrq sfcsjvhsajiandqisijomh.sVyrnmysvyb
abivqjovcsrtsvyjhsaijvbijrosjhstqistiruseburohviqfdb,scbvsjvsyqhsvyb
hqzrisrtsqoqdrmjaqdsgirfqfjdjvc.sQvsqocsiqvb,sjtspbscjbdesvrsjv,spb
unhvsmiqovsqstqismibqvbisqmbsvrsvybsIjmyvsPyqdbsvyqosqvstjihvsmdqoab
pjddshbbusibqhroqfdb.

Josrdesvjubh,svybibshbbusvrsyqzbsgibzqjdbesvybsurhvsanijrnhstqoajbh
aroabiojomsvybhbsfdjoeh.sRobszrcqmbisjosGniayqhsaqddhsvybusvybsproeirnh
“pyjh bih”sjohjebsrtsvybspyqdb’hsurnvy;*sqorvybi,s“yrmh’sfijhvdbh”;sq
vyjiesrdesmbovdbuqosjosYqa dncvsnhbhsvybstrddrpjomsbdbmqovsdqomnqmb:
“Vybibsqibsqfrnvsvprsynoeibesqoestjtvcstjohsmirpjomsrosbqayshjebsrtsyjh
nggbis_ayrg_,spyjaysqiaysrzbisyjhsvromnbsrosbqayshjebsrtsyjhsurnvy.”

*VyjhsibujoehsnhsvyqvsvybsIjmyvsPyqdbsibqddcsyqhsqshrivsrtspyjh bi,sri
iqvybisqsurnhvqayb,sarohjhvjomsrtsqstbpshaqvvbibespyjvbsyqjihsrosvyb
nggbisgqivsrtsvybsrnvbisboesrtsvybsdrpbiskqp.sHrubvjubhsvybhbsvntvh
jugqivsqsiqvybisfijmqoejhysbxgibhhjrosvrsyjhsrvybipjhbshrdbuo
arnovboqoab.

Qhsbzbicsrobs orph,svybhbshqubs“yrmh’sfijhvdbh,”s“tjoh,”s“pyjh bih,”
“fdjoeh,”srispyqvbzbiscrnsgdbqhb,stniojhysvrsvybsdqejbhsvybjisfnh hsqoe
rvybishvjttbojomsarovijzqoabh.sFnvsjosvyjhsgqivjandqi,svybsebuqoesyqh
dromsfbbosrosvybsebadjob.sJvspqhsjosLnbbosQoob’hsvjubsvyqvsvybsfrobspqh
josjvhsmdric,svybstqivyjomqdbsfbjomsvybosqddsvybstqhyjro.sQoesqhsvyrhb
qoajbovsequbhsurzbesqfrnvsmqjdc,svyrnmysjosvybskqphsrtsvybspyqdb,sqh
crnsuqcshqc;sbzboshr,sjosqshyrpbi,spjvysvybsdj bsvyrnmyvdbhhobhh,serspb
orpqeqchstdcsnoebisvybshqubskqphstrisgirvbavjro;svybsnufibddqsfbjomsq
vbovshgibqesrzbisvybshqubsfrob.

Fnvsorpstrimbvsqddsqfrnvsfdjoehsqoespyjh bihstrisqsurubov,sqoe,
hvqoejomsjosvybsIjmyvsPyqdb’hsurnvy,sdrr sqirnoescrnsqtibhy.sHbbjomsqdd
vybhbsardrooqebhsrtsfrobshrsubvyrejaqddcsiqombesqfrnv,sprndescrnsorv
vyjo scrnspbibsjohjebsrtsvybsmibqvsYqqidbusrimqo,sqoesmqwjomsngrosjvh
vyrnhqoesgjgbh?sTrisqsaqigbvsvrsvybsrimqospbsyqzbsqsinmsrtsvybshrtvbhv
Vni bc—vybsvromnb,spyjaysjhsmdnbe,sqhsjvspbib,svrsvybstdrrisrtsvyb
urnvy.sJvsjhszbicstqvsqoesvboebi,sqoesqgvsvrsvbqisjosgjbabhsjosyrjhvjom
jvsroseba .sVyjhsgqivjandqisvromnbsorpsfbtribsnh;sqvsqsgqhhjomsmdqoabsJ
hyrndeshqcsjvspqhsqshjx-fqiibdbi;svyqvsjh,sjvspjddscjbdescrnsqfrnvsvyqv
qurnovsrtsrjd.

Bibsvyjh,scrnsunhvsyqzbsgdqjodcshbbosvybsvinvysrtspyqvsJshvqivbe
pjvy—vyqvsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsqoesvybsIjmyvsPyqdbsyqzbsqdurhvsbovjibdc
ejttbibovsybqeh.sVrshnusng,svybo:sjosvybsIjmyvsPyqdb’hsvybibsjhsor
mibqvspbddsrtshgbiu;sorsjzricsvbbvysqvsqdd;sorsdrom,shdboebisuqoejfdb
rtsqsdrpbiskqp,sdj bsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’h.sOrisjosvybsHgbiusPyqdbsqib
vybibsqocsrtsvyrhbsfdjoehsrtsfrob;sorsynmbsdrpbisdjg;sqoeshaqiabdc
qocvyjomsrtsqsvromnb.sQmqjo,svybsIjmyvsPyqdbsyqhsvprsbxvbioqd
hgrnv-yrdbh,svybsHgbiusPyqdbsrodcsrob.

Drr scrnisdqhv,sorp,srosvybhbszbobiqfdbsyrrebesybqeh,spyjdbsvybcscbv
djbsvrmbvybi;strisrobspjddshrroshjo ,snoibariebe,sjosvybshbq;svybsrvybi
pjddsorvsfbszbicsdromsjostrddrpjom.

AqoscrnsaqvaysvybsbxgibhhjrosrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsvybib?sJvsjhsvybshqub
ybsejbespjvy,srodcshrubsrtsvybsdrombispijo dbhsjosvybstribybqeshbbusorp
tqebesqpqc.sJsvyjo syjhsfirqesfirpsvrsfbstnddsrtsqsgiqjijb-dj b
gdqajejvc,sfriosrtsqshgbandqvjzbsjoejttbiboabsqhsvrsebqvy.sFnvsuqi svyb
rvybisybqe’hsbxgibhhjro.sHbbsvyqvsquqwjomsdrpbisdjg,sgibhhbesfc
qaajebovsqmqjohvsvybszbhhbd’hshjeb,shrsqhstjiudcsvrsbufiqabsvybskqp.
Erbhsorvsvyjhspyrdbsybqeshbbusvrshgbq srtsqosboriurnhsgiqavjaqd
ibhrdnvjrosjostqajomsebqvy?sVyjhsIjmyvsPyqdbsJsvq bsvrsyqzbsfbbosq
Hvrja;svybsHgbiusPyqdb,sqsGdqvrojqo,spyrsujmyvsyqzbsvq bosngsHgjorwqsjo
yjhsdqvvbiscbqih.


AYQGVBIs76.sVybsFqvvbijom-Iqu.

Bibslnjvvjom,strisvybsoroab,svybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsybqe,sJsprndesyqzbscrn,
qhsqshbohjfdbsgychjrdrmjhv,shjugdc—gqivjandqidcsibuqi sjvhstirov
qhgbav,sjosqddsjvhsarugqavbesarddbavbeobhh.sJsprndesyqzbscrn
jozbhvjmqvbsjvsorpspjvysvybshrdbszjbpsrtstriujomsvrscrnihbdtshrub
nobxqmmbiqvbe,sjovbddjmbovsbhvjuqvbsrtspyqvbzbisfqvvbijom-iqusgrpbisuqc
fbsdrembesvybib.sYbibsjhsqszjvqdsgrjov;striscrnsunhvsbjvybi
hqvjhtqavrijdcshbvvdbsvyjhsuqvvbispjvyscrnihbdt,sristrisbzbisibuqjosqo
jotjebdsqhsvrsrobsrtsvybsurhvsqggqddjom,sfnvsorvsvybsdbhhsvinbsbzbovh,
gbiyqghsqocpybibsvrsfbstrnoesjosqddsibariebesyjhvric.

CrnsrfhbizbsvyqvsjosvybsriejoqicshpjuujomsgrhjvjrosrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,
vybstirovsrtsyjhsybqesgibhbovhsqosqdurhvspyrddcszbivjaqdsgdqobsvrsvyb
pqvbi;scrnsrfhbizbsvyqvsvybsdrpbisgqivsrtsvyqvstirovshdrgbh
arohjebiqfdcsfqa pqieh,shrsqhsvrstniojhysuribsrtsqsibvibqvstrisvybsdrom
hra bvspyjaysibabjzbhsvybsfrru-dj bsdrpbiskqp;scrnsrfhbizbsvyqvsvyb
urnvysjhsbovjibdcsnoebisvybsybqe,sunaysjosvybshqubspqc,sjoebbe,sqh
vyrnmyscrnisrposurnvyspbibsbovjibdcsnoebiscrnisayjo.sUribrzbiscrn
rfhbizbsvyqvsvybspyqdbsyqhsorsbxvbioqdsorhb;sqoesvyqvspyqvsorhbsyb
yqh—yjhshgrnvsyrdb—jhsrosvybsvrgsrtsyjhsybqe;scrnsrfhbizbsvyqvsyjhsbcbh
qoesbqihsqibsqvsvybshjebhsrtsyjhsybqe,sobqidcsrobsvyjiesrtsyjhsbovjib
dbomvystirusvybstirov.sPybibtrib,scrnsunhvsorpsyqzbsgbiabjzbesvyqvsvyb
tirovsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsybqesjhsqsebqe,sfdjoespqdd,spjvyrnvsqshjomdb
rimqosrisvboebisgirujoboabsrtsqocshrivspyqvhrbzbi.sTnivybiurib,scrnsqib
orpsvrsarohjebisvyqvsrodcsjosvybsbxvibub,sdrpbi,sfqa pqieshdrgjomsgqiv
rtsvybstirovsrtsvybsybqe,sjhsvybibsvybshdjmyvbhvszbhvjmbsrtsfrob;sqoe
orvsvjddscrnsmbvsobqisvpbovcstbbvstirusvybstribybqeserscrnsarubsvrsvyb
tnddsaiqojqdsebzbdrgubov.sHrsvyqvsvyjhspyrdbsboriurnhsfrobdbhhsuqhhsjh
qhsrobspqe.sTjoqddc,svyrnmy,sqhspjddshrrosfbsibzbqdbe,sjvhsarovbovh
gqivdcsarugijhbsvybsurhvsebdjaqvbsrjd;scbv,scrnsqibsorpsvrsfbsqggijhbe
rtsvybsoqvnibsrtsvybshnfhvqoabspyjayshrsjugibmoqfdcsjozbhvhsqddsvyqv
qggqibovsbttbujoqac.sJoshrubsgibzjrnhsgdqabsJsyqzbsebhaijfbesvrscrnsyrp
vybsfdnffbispiqghsvybsfrecsrtsvybspyqdb,sqhsvybsijoespiqghsqosriqomb.
Knhvshrspjvysvybsybqe;sfnvspjvysvyjhsejttbiboab:sqfrnvsvybsybqesvyjh
bozbdrgb,svyrnmysorvshrsvyja ,sjhsrtsqsfrobdbhhsvrnmyobhh,sjobhvjuqfdb
fcsqocsuqospyrsyqhsorvsyqoedbesjv.sVybshbzbibhvsgrjovbesyqigrro,svyb
hyqigbhvsdqoabseqivbesfcsvybshvirombhvsynuqosqiu,sjugrvbovdcsibfrnoeh
tirusjv.sJvsjhsqhsvyrnmysvybstribybqesrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbspbibsgqzbe
pjvysyrihbh’syrrth.sJsersorvsvyjo svyqvsqocshbohqvjrosdni hsjosjv.

Fbvyjo scrnihbdtsqdhrsrtsqorvybisvyjom.sPybosvprsdqimb,sdrqebesJoejqubo
ayqoabsvrsairpesqoesainhysvrpqiehsbqaysrvybisjosvybsera h,spyqvsersvyb
hqjdrihser?sVybcsersorvshnhgboesfbvpbbosvybu,sqvsvybsgrjovsrtsarujom
arovqav,sqocsubibdcsyqieshnfhvqoab,sdj bsjirosrisprre.sOr,svybcsyrde
vybibsqsdqimb,sirnoespqesrtsvrpsqoesari ,sbozbdrgbesjosvybsvyja bhvsqoe
vrnmybhvsrtsrx-yjeb.sVyqvsfiqzbdcsqoesnojoknibesvq bhsvybskquspyjay
prndesyqzbshoqggbesqddsvybjisrq bosyqoehgj bhsqoesjirosairp-fqih.sFc
jvhbdtsvyjhshnttjajbovdcsjddnhviqvbhsvybsrfzjrnhstqavsJseijzbsqv.sFnv
hnggdbubovqicsvrsvyjh,sjvsyqhsycgrvybvjaqddcsraaniibesvrsub,svyqvsqh
riejoqicstjhysgrhhbhhspyqvsjhsaqddbesqshpjuujomsfdqeebisjosvybu,
aqgqfdb,sqvspjdd,srtsejhvbohjrosrisaroviqavjro;sqoesqhsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,
qhstqisqhsJs orp,syqhsorshnaysgirzjhjrosjosyju;sarohjebijom,svrr,svyb
rvybipjhbsjobxgdjaqfdbsuqoobisjospyjaysybsorpsebgibhhbhsyjhsybqe
qdvrmbvybisfbobqvysvybshnitqab,sqoesqoroshpjuhspjvysjvsyjmysbdbzqvbe
rnvsrtsvybspqvbi;sarohjebijomsvybsnorfhvinavbesbdqhvjajvcsrtsjvh
bozbdrgb;sarohjebijomsvybsnojlnbsjovbijrisrtsyjhsybqe;sjvsyqh
ycgrvybvjaqddcsraaniibesvrsub,sJshqc,svyqvsvyrhbsuchvjaqdsdnom-abddbe
yrobcarufhsvybibsuqcsgrhhjfdcsyqzbshrubsyjvybivrsno orposqoe
nohnhgbavbesaroobxjrospjvysvybsrnvbisqji,shrsqhsvrsfbshnhabgvjfdbsvr
qvurhgybijasejhvbohjrosqoesaroviqavjro.sJtsvyjhsfbshr,stqoacsvyb
jiibhjhvjfdbobhhsrtsvyqvsujmyv,svrspyjaysvybsurhvsjugqdgqfdbsqoe
ebhvinavjzbsrtsqddsbdbubovhsarovijfnvbh.

Orp,suqi .sNobiijomdcsjugbddjomsvyjhsebqe,sjugibmoqfdb,snojokniqfdb
pqdd,sqoesvyjhsurhvsfnrcqovsvyjomspjvyjo;svybibshpjuhsfbyjoesjvsqddsq
uqhhsrtsvibuboernhsdjtb,srodcsvrsfbsqeblnqvbdcsbhvjuqvbesqhsgjdbesprre
jh—fcsvybsarie;sqoesqddsrfbejbovsvrsrobszrdjvjro,sqhsvybshuqddbhv
johbav.sHrsvyqvspybosJshyqddsybibqtvbisebvqjdsvrscrnsqddsvyb
hgbajqdjvjbhsqoesaroaboviqvjrohsrtsgrvboacsbzbicpybibsdni jomsjosvyjh
bxgqohjzbsurohvbi;spybosJshyqddshyrpscrnshrubsrtsyjhsurib
joarohjebiqfdbsfiqjojomstbqvh;sJsvinhvscrnspjddsyqzbsibornoabesqdd
jmoriqovsjoaibendjvc,sqoesfbsibqecsvrsqfjebsfcsvyjh;svyqvsvyrnmysvyb
HgbiusPyqdbshvrzbsqsgqhhqmbsvyirnmysvybsJhvyunhsrtsEqijbo,sqoesujxbe
vybsQvdqovjaspjvysvybsGqajtja,scrnsprndesorvsbdbzqvbsrobsyqjisrtscrni
bcb-firp.sTrisnodbhhscrnsrposvybspyqdb,scrnsqibsfnvsqsgirzjoajqdsqoe
hbovjubovqdjhvsjosVinvy.sFnvsadbqisVinvysjhsqsvyjomstrishqdquqoebi
mjqovhsrodcsvrsboarnovbi;syrpshuqddsvybsayqoabhstrisvybsgirzjoajqdh
vybo?sPyqvsfbtbddsvybspbq djomscrnvysdjtvjomsvybseibqesmreebhh’hszbjd
qvsDqjh?


AYQGVBIs77.sVybsMibqvsYbjebdfnimysVno.

OrpsarubhsvybsFqdjomsrtsvybsAqhb.sFnvsvrsarugibyboesjvsqijmyv,scrnsunhv
 orpshrubvyjomsrtsvybsanijrnhsjovbioqdshvinavnibsrtsvybsvyjomsrgbiqvbe
ngro.

IbmqiejomsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsybqesqhsqshrdjesrfdrom,scrnsuqc,srosqo
joadjobesgdqob,shjebpqchsejzjebsjvsjovrsvprslnrjoh,*spybibrtsvybsdrpbi
jhsvybsfrocshvinavnib,striujomsvybsaiqojnusqoeskqph,sqoesvybsnggbisqo
noavnrnhsuqhhspyrddcstibbstirusfrobh;sjvhsfirqestripqiesboestriujomsvyb
bxgqoebeszbivjaqdsqggqibovstribybqesrtsvybspyqdb.sQvsvybsujeedbsrtsvyb
tribybqesyrijwrovqddcshnfejzjebsvyjhsnggbislnrjo,sqoesvyboscrnsyqzbsvpr
qdurhvsblnqdsgqivh,spyjaysfbtribspbibsoqvniqddcsejzjebesfcsqosjovbioqd
pqddsrtsqsvyja svboejornhshnfhvqoab.

*LnrjosjhsorvsqsBnadjebqosvbiu.sJvsfbdromhsvrsvybsgnibsoqnvjaqd
uqvybuqvjah.sJs orpsorvsvyqvsjvsyqhsfbbosebtjobesfbtrib.sQslnrjosjhsq
hrdjespyjaysejttbihstirusqspbembsjosyqzjomsjvhshyqigsboestriubesfcsvyb
hvbbgsjoadjoqvjrosrtsrobshjeb,sjohvbqesrtsvybsunvnqdsvqgbijomsrtsfrvy
hjebh.

Vybsdrpbishnfejzjebesgqiv,saqddbesvybskno ,sjhsrobsjuubohbsyrobcarufsrt
rjd,striubesfcsvybsairhhjomsqoesibairhhjom,sjovrsvbosvyrnhqoe
jotjdviqvbesabddh,srtsvrnmysbdqhvjaspyjvbstjfibhsvyirnmyrnvsjvhspyrdb
bxvbov.sVybsnggbisgqiv,s orposqhsvybsAqhb,suqcsfbsibmqiebesqhsvybsmibqv
YbjebdfnimysVnosrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb.sQoesqhsvyqvstqurnhsmibqvsvjbiabsjh
uchvjaqddcsaqizbesjostirov,shrsvybspyqdb’hszqhvsgdqjvbestribybqestriuh
joonubiqfdbshviqombsebzjabhstrisvybsbufdbuqvjaqdsqerioubovsrtsyjh
proeirnhsvno.sUribrzbi,sqhsvyqvsrtsYbjebdfnimyspqhsqdpqchsibgdbojhybe
pjvysvybsurhvsbxabddbovsrtsvybspjobhsrtsvybsIybojhyszqddbch,shrsvybsvno
rtsvybspyqdbsarovqjohsfcstqisvybsurhvsgibajrnhsrtsqddsyjhsrjdc
zjovqmbh;soqubdc,svybsyjmydc-gijwbeshgbiuqabvj,sjosjvhsqfhrdnvbdcsgnib,
djugje,sqoesrerijtbirnhshvqvb.sOrisjhsvyjhsgibajrnhshnfhvqoabstrnoe
noqddrcbesjosqocsrvybisgqivsrtsvybsaibqvnib.sVyrnmysjosdjtbsjvsibuqjoh
gbitbavdcstdnje,scbv,sngrosbxgrhnibsvrsvybsqji,sqtvbisebqvy,sjvshrro
fbmjohsvrsaroaibvb;shboejomstrivysfbqnvjtndsaichvqddjobshyrrvh,sqhspybo
vybstjihvsvyjosebdjaqvbsjabsjhsknhvstriujomsjospqvbi.sQsdqimbspyqdb’h
aqhbsmbobiqddcscjbdehsqfrnvstjzbsynoeibesmqddrohsrtshgbiu,svyrnmystiru
noqzrjeqfdbsajianuhvqoabh,sarohjebiqfdbsrtsjvsjhshgjddbe,sdbq h,sqoe
eijffdbhsqpqc,srisjhsrvybipjhbsjiibzraqfdcsdrhvsjosvybsvja djhy
fnhjobhhsrtshbanijomspyqvscrnsaqo.

Js orpsorvspjvyspyqvstjobsqoesarhvdcsuqvbijqdsvybsYbjebdfnimysVnospqh
arqvbespjvyjo,sfnvsjoshngbidqvjzbsijayobhhsvyqvsarqvjomsarndesorv
grhhjfdcsyqzbsarugqibespjvysvybshjd bosgbqid-ardrnibesubufiqob,sdj b
vybsdjojomsrtsqstjobsgbdjhhb,striujomsvybsjoobishnitqabsrtsvybsHgbiu
Pyqdb’hsaqhb.

JvspjddsyqzbsfbboshbbosvyqvsvybsYbjebdfnimysVnosrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb
bufiqabhsvybsbovjibsdbomvysrtsvybsbovjibsvrgsrtsvybsybqe;sqoeshjoab—qh
yqhsfbbosbdhbpybibshbvstrivy—vybsybqesbufiqabhsrobsvyjiesrtsvybspyrdb
dbomvysrtsvybsaibqvnib,svyboshbvvjomsvyqvsdbomvyserposqvsbjmyvcstbbv
trisqsmrreshjwbespyqdb,scrnsyqzbsuribsvyqosvpbovc-hjxstbbvstrisvyb
ebgvysrtsvybsvno,spybosjvsjhsdbomvypjhbsyrjhvbesngsqoeserposqmqjohvsq
hyjg’hshjeb.

Qhsjosebaqgjvqvjomsvybspyqdb,svybsrgbiqvri’hsjohvinubovsjhsfirnmyv
adrhbsvrsvybshgrvspybibsqosboviqoabsjhshnfhblnbovdcstriabesjovrsvyb
hgbiuqabvjsuqmqwjob;sybsyqh,svybibtrib,svrsfbsnoaruurodcsybbetnd,sdbhv
qsaqibdbhh,snovjubdcshvir bshyrndesjozqebsvybshqoavnqicsqoespqhvjomdc
dbvsrnvsjvhsjozqdnqfdbsarovbovh.sJvsjhsvyjhsebaqgjvqvbesboesrtsvyb
ybqe,sqdhr,spyjaysjhsqvsdqhvsbdbzqvbesrnvsrtsvybspqvbi,sqoesibvqjobesjo
vyqvsgrhjvjrosfcsvybsboriurnhsanvvjomsvqa dbh,spyrhbsybugbo
arufjoqvjroh,srosrobshjeb,suq bslnjvbsqspjdebiobhhsrtsirgbhsjosvyqv
lnqivbi.

Vynhsunaysfbjomshqje,sqvvboesorp,sJsgiqcscrn,svrsvyqvsuqizbddrnhsqoe—jo
vyjhsgqivjandqisjohvqoab—qdurhvstqvqdsrgbiqvjrospybibfcsvybsHgbiu
Pyqdb’hsmibqvsYbjebdfnimysVnosjhsvqggbe.


AYQGVBIs78.sAjhvbiosqoesFna bvh.

Ojufdbsqhsqsaqv,sVqhyvbmrsurnovhsqdrtv;sqoespjvyrnvsqdvbijomsyjhsbibav
grhvnib,sinohshviqjmyvsrnvsngrosvybsrzbiyqomjomsuqjocqie-qiu,svrsvyb
gqivspybibsjvsbxqavdcsgirkbavhsrzbisvybsyrjhvbesVno.sYbsyqhsaqiijbe
pjvysyjusqsdjmyvsvqa dbsaqddbesqspyjg,sarohjhvjomsrtsrodcsvprsgqivh,
viqzbddjomsvyirnmysqshjomdb-hybqzbesfdra .sHbanijomsvyjhsfdra ,shrsvyqv
jvsyqomhserpostirusvybscqie-qiu,sybshpjomhsrobsboesrtsvybsirgb,svjddsjv
jhsaqnmyvsqoestjiudcsybdesfcsqsyqoesroseba .sVybo,syqoe-rzbi-yqoe,serpo
vybsrvybisgqiv,svybsJoejqoseirghsvyirnmysvybsqji,svjddsebxvbirnhdcsyb
dqoehsrosvybshnuujvsrtsvybsybqe.sVybib—hvjddsyjmysbdbzqvbesqfrzbsvyb
ibhvsrtsvybsarugqoc,svrspyrusybszjzqajrnhdcsaijbh—ybshbbuhshrubsVni jhy
Unbwwjosaqddjomsvybsmrresgbrgdbsvrsgiqcbihstirusvybsvrgsrtsqsvrpbi.sQ
hyriv-yqoedbeshyqigshgqebsfbjomshbovsngsvrsyju,sybsejdjmbovdcshbqiaybh
trisvybsgirgbisgdqabsvrsfbmjosfibq jomsjovrsvybsVno.sJosvyjhsfnhjobhh
ybsgirabbehszbicsybbetnddc,sdj bsqsvibqhnib-ynovbisjoshrubsrdesyrnhb,
hrnoejomsvybspqddhsvrstjoespybibsvybsmrdesjhsuqhrobesjo.sFcsvybsvjub
vyjhsaqnvjrnhshbqiaysjhsrzbi,sqshvrnvsjiro-frnoesfna bv,sgibajhbdcsdj b
qspbdd-fna bv,syqhsfbbosqvvqaybesvrsrobsboesrtsvybspyjg;spyjdbsvyb
rvybisboe,sfbjomshvibvaybesqairhhsvybseba ,sjhsvybibsybdesfcsvprsri
vyibbsqdbivsyqoeh.sVybhbsdqhvsorpsyrjhvsvybsfna bvspjvyjosmiqhgsrtsvyb
Joejqo,svrspyrusqorvybisgbihrosyqhsibqaybesngsqszbicsdromsgrdb.
Johbivjomsvyjhsgrdbsjovrsvybsfna bv,sVqhyvbmrserpopqiesmnjebhsvyb
fna bvsjovrsvybsVno,svjddsjvsbovjibdcsejhqggbqih;svybosmjzjomsvybsprie
vrsvybshbqubosqvsvybspyjg,sngsarubhsvybsfna bvsqmqjo,sqddsfnffdjomsdj b
qseqjic-uqje’hsgqjdsrtsobpsujd .sAqibtnddcsdrpbibestirusjvhsybjmyv,svyb
tndd-tibjmyvbeszbhhbdsjhsaqnmyvsfcsqosqggrjovbesyqoe,sqoeslnja dc
bugvjbesjovrsqsdqimbsvnf.sVybosiburnovjomsqdrtv,sjvsqmqjosmrbhsvyirnmy
vybshqubsirnoesnovjdsvybsebbgsajhvbiospjddscjbdesorsurib.sVrpqiehsvyb
boe,sVqhyvbmrsyqhsvrsiqusyjhsdromsgrdbsyqiebisqoesyqiebi,sqoesebbgbi
qoesebbgbisjovrsvybsVno,snovjdshrubsvpbovcstbbvsrtsvybsgrdbsyqzbsmrob
erpo.

Orp,svybsgbrgdbsrtsvybsGblnresyqesfbbosfqdjomshrubsvjubsjosvyjhspqc;
hbzbiqdsvnfhsyqesfbbostjddbespjvysvybstiqmiqovshgbiu;spybosqddsqvsroab
qslnbbisqaajebovsyqggbobe.sPybvybisjvspqhsvyqvsVqhyvbmr,svyqvspjde
Joejqo,spqhshrsybbedbhhsqoesiba dbhhsqhsvrsdbvsmrstrisqsurubovsyjh
rob-yqoebesyrdesrosvybsmibqvsaqfdbesvqa dbhshnhgboejomsvybsybqe;sri
pybvybisvybsgdqabspybibsybshvrrespqhshrsvibqaybirnhsqoesrrwc;sri
pybvybisvybsBzjdsRobsyjuhbdtsprndesyqzbsjvsvrstqddsrnvshr,spjvyrnv
hvqvjomsyjhsgqivjandqisibqhroh;syrpsjvspqhsbxqavdc,svybibsjhsorsvbddjom
orp;sfnv,srosqshneebo,sqhsvybsbjmyvjbvysrisojobvjbvysfna bvsaqub
hna jomdcsng—ucsMre!sgrrisVqhyvbmr—dj bsvybsvpjosibajgiraqvjomsfna bv
josqszbijvqfdbspbdd,seirggbesybqe-triburhvserposjovrsvyjhsmibqvsVnosrt
Ybjebdfnimy,sqoespjvysqsyriijfdbsrjdcsmnimdjom,spbovsadbqosrnvsrt
hjmyv!

“Uqosrzbifrqie!”saijbesEqmmrr,spyrsqujesvybsmbobiqdsarohvbioqvjrostjihv
aqubsvrsyjhshbohbh.s“Hpjomsvybsfna bvsvyjhspqc!”sqoesgnvvjomsrobstrrv
jovrsjv,shrsqhsvybsfbvvbisvrshbanibsyjhshdjggbicsyqoe-yrdesrosvybspyjg
jvhbdt,svybsyrjhvbihsiqosyjusyjmysngsvrsvybsvrgsrtsvybsybqe,sqdurhv
fbtribsVqhyvbmrsarndesyqzbsibqaybesjvhsjovbijrisfrvvru.sUbqovjub,svybib
pqhsqsvbiijfdbsvnundv.sDrr jomsrzbisvybshjeb,svybcshqpsvybsfbtrib
djtbdbhhsybqesvyirffjomsqoesybqzjomsknhvsfbdrpsvybshnitqabsrtsvybshbq,
qhsjtsvyqvsurubovshbjwbespjvyshrubsurubovrnhsjebq;spybibqhsjvspqhsrodc
vybsgrrisJoejqosnoarohajrnhdcsibzbqdjomsfcsvyrhbshvinmmdbhsvybsgbijdrnh
ebgvysvrspyjaysybsyqeshno .

Qvsvyjhsjohvqov,spyjdbsEqmmrr,srosvybshnuujvsrtsvybsybqe,spqhsadbqijom
vybspyjg—pyjaysyqeshrubyrpsmrvstrndsrtsvybsmibqvsanvvjomsvqa dbh—q
hyqigsaiqa jomsorjhbspqhsybqie;sqoesvrsvybsnohgbq qfdbsyriirisrtsqdd,
robsrtsvybsvprsboriurnhsyrr hshnhgboejomsvybsybqesvribsrnv,sqoespjvysq
zqhvszjfiqvjrosvybsboriurnhsuqhhshjebpqchshpnom,svjddsvybseino shyjg
ibbdbesqoeshyrr sqhsjtshujvvbosfcsqosjabfbim.sVybsrobsibuqjojomsyrr ,
ngrospyjaysvybsbovjibshviqjosorpsebgboebe,shbbubesbzbicsjohvqovsvrsfb
rosvybsgrjovsrtsmjzjomspqc;sqosbzbovshvjddsuribsdj bdcstirusvybszjrdbov
urvjrohsrtsvybsybqe.

“Arubserpo,sarubserpo!”scbddbesvybshbqubosvrsEqmmrr,sfnvspjvysrobsyqoe
yrdejomsrosvrsvybsybqzcsvqa dbh,shrsvyqvsjtsvybsybqeshyrndeseirg,syb
prndeshvjddsibuqjoshnhgboebe;svybsobmirsyqzjomsadbqibesvybstrndsdjob,
iquubeserposvybsfna bvsjovrsvybsorpsarddqghbespbdd,subqojomsvyqvsvyb
fnijbesyqigrrobbishyrndesmiqhgsjv,sqoeshrsfbsyrjhvbesrnv.

“Josybqzbo’hsoqub,suqo,”saijbesHvnff,s“qibscrnsiquujomsyrubsqsaqivijemb
vybib?—Qzqhv!sYrpspjddsvyqvsybdgsyju;skquujomsvyqvsjiro-frnoesfna bvsro
vrgsrtsyjhsybqe?sQzqhv,spjddscb!”

“Hvqoesadbqisrtsvybsvqa db!”saijbesqszrjabsdj bsvybsfnihvjomsrtsq
ira bv.

Qdurhvsjosvybshqubsjohvqov,spjvysqsvynoebi-frru,svybsboriurnhsuqhh
eirggbesjovrsvybshbq,sdj bsOjqmqiq’hsVqfdb-Ira sjovrsvybspyjidgrrd;svyb
hneebodcsibdjbzbesynddsirddbesqpqcstirusjv,svrstqiserposybismdjvvbijom
arggbi;sqoesqddsaqnmyvsvybjisfibqvy,sqhsyqdtshpjomjom—orpsrzbisvyb
hqjdrih’sybqeh,sqoesorpsrzbisvybspqvbi—Eqmmrr,svyirnmysqsvyja sujhvsrt
hgiqc,spqhsejudcsfbybdesadjomjomsvrsvybsgboendrnhsvqa dbh,spyjdbsgrri,
fnijbe-qdjzbsVqhyvbmrspqhshjo jomsnvvbidcserposvrsvybsfrvvrusrtsvyb
hbq!sFnvsyqiedcsyqesvybsfdjoejomszqgrisadbqibesqpqc,spybosqsoq be
tjmnibspjvysqsfrqiejom-hpriesjosyjhsyqoe,spqhstrisrobshpjtvsurubovshbbo
yrzbijomsrzbisvybsfndpqi h.sVybsobxv,sqsdrneshgdqhysqoornoabesvyqvsuc
fiqzbsLnbblnbmsyqesejzbesvrsvybsibhanb.sRobsgqa besinhyspqhsuqebsvrsvyb
hjeb,sqoesbzbicsbcbsarnovbesbzbicsijggdb,sqhsurubovstrddrpbesurubov,
qoesorshjmosrtsbjvybisvybshjo bisrisvybsejzbisarndesfbshbbo.sHrubsyqoeh
orpsknugbesjovrsqsfrqvsqdromhjeb,sqoesgnhybesqsdjvvdbsrttstirusvyb
hyjg.

“Yq!syq!”saijbesEqmmrr,sqddsqvsroab,stirusyjhsorpslnjbv,shpjomjomsgbiay
rzbiybqe;sqoesdrr jomstnivybisrttstirusvybshjeb,spbshqpsqosqiusvyinhv
ngijmyvstirusvybsfdnbspqzbh;sqshjmyvshviqombsvrshbb,sqhsqosqiusvyinhv
trivystirusvybsmiqhhsrzbisqsmiqzb.

“Frvy!sfrvy!—jvsjhsfrvy!”—aijbesEqmmrrsqmqjospjvysqskrctndshyrnv;sqoe
hrrosqtvbi,sLnbblnbmspqhshbbosfrdedcshvij jomsrnvspjvysrobsyqoe,sqoe
pjvysvybsrvybisadnvayjomsvybsdromsyqjisrtsvybsJoejqo.sEiqposjovrsvyb
pqjvjomsfrqv,svybcspbibslnja dcsfirnmyvsvrsvybseba ;sfnvsVqhyvbmrspqh
dromsjosarujomsvr,sqoesLnbblnbmsejesorvsdrr szbicsfijh .

Orp,syrpsyqesvyjhsorfdbsibhanbsfbbosqaarugdjhybe?sPyc,sejzjomsqtvbisvyb
hdrpdcsebhaboejomsybqe,sLnbblnbmspjvysyjhs bboshpriesyqesuqebshjeb
dnombhsobqisjvhsfrvvru,shrsqhsvrshanvvdbsqsdqimbsyrdbsvybib;svybo
eirggjomsyjhshprie,syqesvyinhvsyjhsdromsqiustqisjopqiehsqoesngpqieh,
qoeshrsyqndbesrnvsgrrisVqhysfcsvybsybqe.sYbsqzbiibe,svyqvsngrostjihv
vyinhvjomsjostrisyju,sqsdbmspqhsgibhbovbe;sfnvspbdds orpjomsvyqvsvyqv
pqhsorvsqhsjvsrnmyvsvrsfb,sqoesujmyvsraaqhjrosmibqvsvirnfdb;—ybsyqe
vyinhvsfqa svybsdbm,sqoesfcsqsebxvbirnhsybqzbsqoesvrhh,syqespirnmyvsq
hrubihbvsngrosvybsJoejqo;shrsvyqvspjvysvybsobxvsvijqd,sybsaqubstrivysjo
vybsmrresrdespqc—ybqestriburhv.sQhstrisvybsmibqvsybqesjvhbdt,svyqvspqh
erjomsqhspbddsqhsarndesfbsbxgbavbe.

Qoesvynh,svyirnmysvybsarniqmbsqoesmibqvsh jddsjosrfhvbvijahsrt
Lnbblnbm,svybsebdjzbiqoab,srisiqvybi,sebdjzbicsrtsVqhyvbmr,spqh
hnaabhhtnddcsqaarugdjhybe,sjosvybsvbbvy,svrr,srtsvybsurhvsnovrpqiesqoe
qggqibovdcsyrgbdbhhsjugbejubovh;spyjaysjhsqsdbhhrosfcsorsubqohsvrsfb
trimrvvbo.sUjepjtbicshyrndesfbsvqnmyvsjosvybshqubsarnihbspjvystboajom
qoesfrxjom,sijejomsqoesirpjom.

Js orpsvyqvsvyjhslnbbisqezbovnibsrtsvybsMqc-Ybqebi’hspjddsfbshnibsvr
hbbusjoaibejfdbsvrshrubsdqoehubo,svyrnmysvybcsvybuhbdzbhsuqcsyqzb
bjvybishbbosrisybqiesrtshrubsrob’hstqddjomsjovrsqsajhvbiosqhyrib;sqo
qaajebovspyjaysorvshbderusyqggboh,sqoespjvysunaysdbhhsibqhrosvrrsvyqo
vybsJoejqo’h,sarohjebijomsvybsbxabbejomshdjggbijobhhsrtsvybsanifsrtsvyb
HgbiusPyqdb’hspbdd.

Fnv,sgbiqezbovnib,sjvsuqcsfbshqmqajrnhdcsnimbe,syrpsjhsvyjh?sPbsvyrnmyv
vybsvjhhnbe,sjotjdviqvbesybqesrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,spqhsvybsdjmyvbhvsqoe
urhvsari csgqivsqfrnvsyju;sqoescbvsvyrnsuq bhvsjvshjo sjosqosbdbubovsrt
qstqismibqvbishgbajtjasmiqzjvcsvyqosjvhbdt.sPbsyqzbsvybbsvybib.sOrvsqv
qdd,sfnvsJsyqzbscb;strisqvsvybsvjubsgrrisVqhystbddsjo,svybsaqhbsyqe
fbbosobqidcsbugvjbesrtsjvhsdjmyvbisarovbovh,sdbqzjomsdjvvdbsfnvsvyb
ebohbsvboejornhspqddsrtsvybspbdd—qsernfdbspbdebe,syquubibeshnfhvqoab,
qhsJsyqzbsfbtribshqje,sunaysybqzjbisvyqosvybshbqspqvbi,sqoesqsdnugsrt
pyjayshjo hsjosjvsdj bsdbqesqdurhv.sFnvsvybsvboeboacsvrsiqgjeshjo jom
josvyjhshnfhvqoabspqhsjosvybsgibhbovsjohvqoabsuqvbijqddcsarnovbiqavbe
fcsvybsrvybisgqivhsrtsvybsybqesibuqjojomsnoebvqaybestirusjv,shrsvyqvsjv
hqo szbicshdrpdcsqoesebdjfbiqvbdcsjoebbe,sqttriejomsLnbblnbmsqstqji
ayqoabstrisgbitriujomsyjhsqmjdbsrfhvbvijahsrosvybsino,sqhscrnsuqcshqc.
Cbh,sjvspqhsqsinoojomsebdjzbic,shrsjvspqh.

Orp,syqesVqhyvbmrsgbijhybesjosvyqvsybqe,sjvsyqesfbbosqszbicsgibajrnh
gbijhyjom;shurvybibesjosvybszbicspyjvbhvsqoeseqjovjbhvsrtstiqmiqov
hgbiuqabvj;sarttjobe,sybqihbe,sqoesvrufbesjosvybshbaibvsjoobisayqufbi
qoeshqoavnushqoavrinusrtsvybspyqdb.sRodcsrobshpbbvbisboesaqosibqejdcsfb
ibaqddbe—vybsebdjajrnhsebqvysrtsqosRyjrsyrobc-ynovbi,spyrshbb jomsyrobc
josvybsairvaysrtsqsyrddrpsvibb,strnoeshnaysbxabbejomshvribsrtsjv,svyqv
dbqojomsvrrstqisrzbi,sjvshna besyjusjo,shrsvyqvsybsejbesbufqdube.sYrp
uqoc,svyjo scb,syqzbsdj bpjhbstqddbosjovrsGdqvr’hsyrobcsybqe,sqoe
hpbbvdcsgbijhybesvybib?


AYQGVBIs79.sVybsGiqjijb.

Vrshaqosvybsdjobhsrtsyjhstqab,sristbbdsvybsfnughsrosvybsybqesrtsvyjh
Dbzjqvyqo;svyjhsjhsqsvyjomspyjaysorsGychjrmorujhvsrisGyibordrmjhvsyqh
qhscbvsnoebivq bo.sHnaysqosbovbigijhbsprndeshbbusqdurhvsqhsyrgbtndsqh
trisDqzqvbisvrsyqzbshainvjojwbesvybspijo dbhsrosvybsIra srtsMjfiqdvqi,
ristrisMqddsvrsyqzbsurnovbesqsdqeebisqoesuqojgndqvbesvybsErubsrtsvyb
Gqovybro.sHvjdd,sjosvyqvstqurnhspri srtsyjh,sDqzqvbisorvsrodcsvibqvhsrt
vybszqijrnhstqabhsrtsubo,sfnvsqdhrsqvvbovjzbdcshvnejbhsvybstqabhsrt
yrihbh,sfjieh,shbigbovh,sqoestjhy;sqoesepbddhsjosebvqjdsngrosvyb
urejtjaqvjrohsrtsbxgibhhjrosejhabiojfdbsvybibjo.sOrisyqzbsMqddsqoesyjh
ejhajgdbsHgniwybjustqjdbesvrsvyirpsrnvshrubsyjovhsvrnayjomsvyb
gyibordrmjaqdsayqiqavbijhvjahsrtsrvybisfbjomhsvyqosuqo.sVybibtrib,
vyrnmysJsqusfnvsjddslnqdjtjbestrisqsgjrobbi,sjosvybsqggdjaqvjrosrt
vybhbsvprshbuj-hajboabhsvrsvybspyqdb,sJspjddsersucsboebqzri.sJsvicsqdd
vyjomh;sJsqayjbzbspyqvsJsaqo.

Gychjrmorujaqddcsibmqiebe,svybsHgbiusPyqdbsjhsqosqoruqdrnhsaibqvnib.sYb
yqhsorsgirgbisorhb.sQoeshjoabsvybsorhbsjhsvybsaboviqdsqoesurhv
arohgjanrnhsrtsvybstbqvnibh;sqoeshjoabsjvsgbiyqghsurhvsurejtjbhsqoe
tjoqddcsarovirdhsvybjisarufjobesbxgibhhjro;syboabsjvsprndeshbbusvyqv
jvhsbovjibsqfhboab,sqhsqosbxvbioqdsqggboeqmb,sunhvszbicsdqimbdcsqttbav
vybsarnovboqoabsrtsvybspyqdb.sTrisqhsjosdqoehaqgbsmqiebojom,sqshgjib,
angrdq,suronubov,srisvrpbisrtshrubshriv,sjhsebbubesqdurhvsjoejhgbohqfdb
vrsvybsarugdbvjrosrtsvybshabob;shrsorstqabsaqosfbsgychjrmorujaqddcsjo
 bbgjomspjvyrnvsvybsbdbzqvbesrgbo-pri sfbdticsrtsvybsorhb.sEqhysvyb
orhbstirusGyjejqh’hsuqifdbsKrzb,sqoespyqvsqshriicsibuqjoebi!
Obzbivybdbhh,sDbzjqvyqosjhsrtshrsujmyvcsqsuqmojvneb,sqddsyjh
girgrivjrohsqibshrshvqvbdc,svyqvsvybshqubsebtjajboacspyjaysjosvyb
handgvnibesKrzbspbibsyjebrnh,sjosyjusjhsorsfdbujhysqvsqdd.sOqc,sjvsjh
qosqeebesmiqoebni.sQsorhbsvrsvybspyqdbsprndesyqzbsfbbosjugbivjobov.sQh
roscrnisgychjrmorujaqdszrcqmbscrnshqjdsirnoesyjhszqhvsybqesjoscrni
krddc-frqv,scrnisorfdbsaroabgvjrohsrtsyjusqibsobzbisjohndvbesfcsvyb
ibtdbavjrosvyqvsybsyqhsqsorhbsvrsfbsgnddbe.sQsgbhvjdbovsaroabjv,spyjay
hrsrtvbospjddsjohjhvsngrosrfvinejomsbzbospybosfbyrdejomsvybsujmyvjbhv
ircqdsfbqedbsrosyjhsvyirob.

Joshrubsgqivjandqih,sgbiyqghsvybsurhvsjugrhjomsgychjrmorujaqdszjbpsvr
fbsyqesrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,sjhsvyqvsrtsvybstnddstirovsrtsyjhsybqe.sVyjh
qhgbavsjhshnfdjub.

Josvyrnmyv,sqstjobsynuqosfirpsjhsdj bsvybsBqhvspybosvirnfdbespjvysvyb
uriojom.sJosvybsibgrhbsrtsvybsgqhvnib,svybsanidbesfirpsrtsvybsfnddsyqh
qsvrnaysrtsvybsmiqoesjosjv.sGnhyjomsybqzcsaqoorosngsurnovqjosebtjdbh,
vybsbdbgyqov’hsfirpsjhsuqkbhvja.sYnuqosrisqojuqd,svybsuchvjaqdsfirpsjh
qhsvyqvsmibqvsmrdeboshbqdsqttjxbesfcsvybsMbiuqosbugbirihsvrsvybji
ebaibbh.sJvshjmojtjbh—“Mre:serobsvyjhseqcsfcsucsyqoe.”sFnvsjosurhv
aibqvnibh,soqcsjosuqosyjuhbdt,szbicsrtvbosvybsfirpsjhsfnvsqsubibshvijg
rtsqdgjobsdqoesdcjomsqdromsvybshorpsdjob.sTbpsqibsvybstribybqehspyjay
dj bsHyq bhgbqib’hsrisUbdqoavyro’hsijhbshrsyjmy,sqoesebhaboeshrsdrp,
vyqvsvybsbcbhsvybuhbdzbhshbbusadbqi,sbvbioqd,svjebdbhhsurnovqjosdq bh;
qoesqddsqfrzbsvybusjosvybstribybqe’hspijo dbh,scrnshbbusvrsviqa svyb
qovdbibesvyrnmyvhsebhaboejomsvybibsvrseijo ,sqhsvybsYjmydqoesynovbih
viqa svybshorpsgijovhsrtsvybsebbi.sFnvsjosvybsmibqvsHgbiusPyqdb,svyjh
yjmysqoesujmyvcsmre-dj bsejmojvcsjoybibovsjosvybsfirpsjhshrsjuubohbdc
qugdjtjbe,svyqvsmqwjomsrosjv,sjosvyqvstnddstirovszjbp,scrnstbbdsvyb
Ebjvcsqoesvybseibqesgrpbihsuribstriajfdcsvyqosjosfbyrdejomsqocsrvybi
rfkbavsjosdjzjomsoqvnib.sTriscrnshbbsorsrobsgrjovsgibajhbdc;sorvsrob
ejhvjoavstbqvnibsjhsibzbqdbe;sorsorhb,sbcbh,sbqih,srisurnvy;sorstqab;
ybsyqhsorob,sgirgbi;sorvyjomsfnvsvyqvsrobsfirqestjiuqubovsrtsq
tribybqe,sgdbqvbespjvysijeedbh;senufdcsdrpbijomspjvysvybserrusrtsfrqvh,
qoeshyjgh,sqoesubo.sOri,sjosgirtjdb,serbhsvyjhsproeirnhsfirpsejujojhy;
vyrnmysvyqvspqcszjbpbesjvhsmiqoebniserbhsorvserujobbisngroscrnshr.sJo
girtjdb,scrnsgdqjodcsgbiabjzbsvyqvsyrijwrovqd,shbuj-aibhabovja
ebgibhhjrosjosvybstribybqe’hsujeedb,spyjay,sjosuqo,sjhsDqzqvbi’hsuqi 
rtsmbojnh.

Fnvsyrp?sMbojnhsjosvybsHgbiusPyqdb?sYqhsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsbzbispijvvbosq
frr ,shgr bosqshgbbay?sOr,syjhsmibqvsmbojnhsjhsebadqibesjosyjhserjom
orvyjomsgqivjandqisvrsgirzbsjv.sJvsjhsuribrzbisebadqibesjosyjh
gciqujejaqdshjdboab.sQoesvyjhsibujoehsubsvyqvsyqesvybsmibqvsHgbiusPyqdb
fbbos orposvrsvybscrnomsRijbovsPride,sybsprndesyqzbsfbbosebjtjbesfc
vybjisayjde-uqmjqosvyrnmyvh.sVybcsebjtjbesvybsairarejdbsrtsvybsOjdb,
fbaqnhbsvybsairarejdbsjhsvromnbdbhh;sqoesvybsHgbiusPyqdbsyqhsorsvromnb,
risqvsdbqhvsjvsjhshrsbxabbejomdcshuqdd,sqhsvrsfbsjoaqgqfdbsrt
girvinhjro.sJtsybibqtvbisqocsyjmydcsandvnibe,sgrbvjaqdsoqvjroshyqdd
dnibsfqa svrsvybjisfjivy-ijmyv,svybsubiicsUqc-eqcsmrehsrtsrde;sqoe
djzjomdcsbovyirobsvybusqmqjosjosvybsorpsbmrvjhvjaqdsh c;sjosvybsorp
noyqnovbesyjdd;svybosfbshnib,sbxqdvbesvrsKrzb’hsyjmyshbqv,svybsmibqv
HgbiusPyqdbshyqddsdriesjv.

Ayqugrddjrosebajgybibesvybspijo dbesmiqojvbsyjbirmdcgyjah.sFnvsvybibsjh
orsAyqugrddjrosvrsebajgybisvybsBmcgvsrtsbzbicsuqo’hsqoesbzbicsfbjom’h
tqab.sGychjrmoruc,sdj bsbzbicsrvybisynuqoshajboab,sjhsfnvsqsgqhhjom
tqfdb.sJtsvybo,sHjisPjddjqusKrobh,spyrsibqesjosvyjivcsdqomnqmbh,sarnde
orvsibqesvybshjugdbhvsgbqhqov’hstqabsjosjvhsgirtrnoebisqoesuribshnfvdb
ubqojomh,syrpsuqcsnodbvvbibesJhyuqbdsyrgbsvrsibqesvybsqptndsAyqdebbsrt
vybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsfirp?sJsfnvsgnvsvyqvsfirpsfbtribscrn.sIbqesjvsjtscrn
aqo.


AYQGVBIs80.sVybsOnv.

JtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsfbsgychjrmorujaqddcsqsHgyjox,svrsvybsgyibordrmjhv
yjhsfiqjoshbbuhsvyqvsmbrubvijaqdsajiadbspyjaysjvsjhsjugrhhjfdbsvr
hlnqib.

Josvybstndd-mirposaibqvnibsvybsh nddspjddsubqhnibsqvsdbqhvsvpbovcstbbv
josdbomvy.sNoyjombsvybsdrpbiskqp,sqoesvybshjebszjbpsrtsvyjhsh nddsjhsqh
vybshjebsrtsqsurebiqvbdcsjoadjobesgdqobsibhvjomsvyirnmyrnvsrosqsdbzbd
fqhb.sFnvsjosdjtb—qhspbsyqzbsbdhbpybibshbbo—vyjhsjoadjobesgdqobsjh
qomndqidcstjddbesng,sqoesqdurhvshlnqibesfcsvybsboriurnhshngbijoanufbov
uqhhsrtsvybskno sqoeshgbiu.sQvsvybsyjmysboesvybsh nddstriuhsqsaiqvbisvr
fbesvyqvsgqivsrtsvybsuqhh;spyjdbsnoebisvybsdromstdrrisrtsvyjhsaiqvbi—jo
qorvybisaqzjvcshbderusbxabbejomsvbosjoaybhsjosdbomvysqoesqhsuqocsjo
ebgvy—ibgrhbhsvybsubibsyqoetndsrtsvyjhsurohvbi’hsfiqjo.sVybsfiqjosjhsqv
dbqhvsvpbovcstbbvstirusyjhsqggqibovstribybqesjosdjtb;sjvsjhsyjeebosqpqc
fbyjoesjvhszqhvsrnvpri h,sdj bsvybsjoobiurhvsajvqebdspjvyjosvyb
qugdjtjbestrivjtjaqvjrohsrtsLnbfba.sHrsdj bsqsayrjabsaqh bvsjhsjv
hbaibvbesjosyju,svyqvsJsyqzbs orposhrubspyqdbubospyrsgbibugvrijdcseboc
vyqvsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsyqhsqocsrvybisfiqjosvyqosvyqvsgqdgqfdbshbufdqoab
rtsrobstriubesfcsvybsanfja-cqiehsrtsyjhshgbiusuqmqwjob.sDcjomsjo
hviqombstrdeh,sarnihbh,sqoesarozrdnvjroh,svrsvybjisqggibybohjroh,sjv
hbbuhsuribsjos bbgjomspjvysvybsjebqsrtsyjhsmbobiqdsujmyvsvrsibmqiesvyqv
uchvjasgqivsrtsyjusqhsvybshbqvsrtsyjhsjovbddjmboab.

Jvsjhsgdqjo,svybo,svyqvsgyibordrmjaqddcsvybsybqesrtsvyjhsDbzjqvyqo,sjo
vybsaibqvnib’hsdjzjomsjovqavshvqvb,sjhsqosbovjibsebdnhjro.sQhstrisyjh
vinbsfiqjo,scrnsaqosvyboshbbsorsjoejaqvjrohsrtsjv,soristbbdsqoc.sVyb
pyqdb,sdj bsqddsvyjomhsvyqvsqibsujmyvc,spbqihsqstqdhbsfirpsvrsvyb
aruurospride.

Jtscrnsnodrqesyjhsh nddsrtsjvhshgbiucsybqghsqoesvybosvq bsqsibqiszjbp
rtsjvhsibqisboe,spyjaysjhsvybsyjmysboe,scrnspjddsfbshvina sfcsjvh
ibhbufdqoabsvrsvybsynuqosh ndd,sfbybdesjosvybshqubshjvnqvjro,sqoestiru
vybshqubsgrjovsrtszjbp.sJoebbe,sgdqabsvyjhsibzbihbesh ndds(haqdbeserpo
vrsvybsynuqosuqmojvneb)squromsqsgdqvbsrtsubo’hsh nddh,sqoescrnsprnde
jozrdnovqijdcsarotrnoesjvspjvysvybu;sqoesibuqi jomsvybsebgibhhjrohsro
robsgqivsrtsjvhshnuujv,sjosgyibordrmjaqdsgyiqhbscrnsprndeshqc—Vyjhsuqo
yqesorshbdt-bhvbbu,sqoesorszbobiqvjro.sQoesfcsvyrhbsobmqvjroh,
arohjebibesqdromspjvysvybsqttjiuqvjzbstqavsrtsyjhsgirejmjrnhsfnd sqoe
grpbi,scrnsaqosfbhvstriusvrscrnihbdtsvybsvinbhv,svyrnmysorvsvybsurhv
bxyjdqiqvjomsaroabgvjrosrtspyqvsvybsurhvsbxqdvbesgrvboacsjh.

Fnvsjtstirusvybsarugqiqvjzbsejubohjrohsrtsvybspyqdb’hsgirgbisfiqjo,scrn
ebbusjvsjoaqgqfdbsrtsfbjomsqeblnqvbdcsayqivbe,svybosJsyqzbsqorvybisjebq
triscrn.sJtscrnsqvvbovjzbdcsibmqiesqdurhvsqocslnqeingbe’hshgjob,scrn
pjddsfbshvina spjvysvybsibhbufdqoabsrtsjvhszbivbfiæsvrsqshvinom
oba dqabsrtsepqitbesh nddh,sqddsfbqijomsinejubovqdsibhbufdqoabsvrsvyb
h nddsgirgbi.sJvsjhsqsMbiuqosaroabjv,svyqvsvybszbivbfiæsqibsqfhrdnvbdc
noebzbdrgbesh nddh.sFnvsvybsanijrnhsbxvbioqdsibhbufdqoab,sJsvq bsjvsvyb
Mbiuqohspbibsorvsvybstjihvsubosvrsgbiabjzb.sQstribjmostijboesroab
grjovbesjvsrnvsvrsub,sjosvybsh bdbvrosrtsqstrbsybsyqeshdqjo,sqoespjvy
vybszbivbfiæsrtspyjaysybspqhsjodqcjom,sjosqshrivsrtsfqhhr-ibdjbzr,svyb
fbq besgirpsrtsyjhsaqorb.sOrp,sJsarohjebisvyqvsvybsgyibordrmjhvhsyqzb
rujvvbesqosjugrivqovsvyjomsjosorvsgnhyjomsvybjisjozbhvjmqvjrohstirusvyb
abibfbddnusvyirnmysvybshgjoqdsaqoqd.sTrisJsfbdjbzbsvyqvsunaysrtsqsuqo’h
ayqiqavbispjddsfbstrnoesfbvr bobesjosyjhsfqa frob.sJsprndesiqvybistbbd
crnishgjobsvyqoscrnish ndd,spyrbzbiscrnsqib.sQsvyjoskrjhvsrtsqshgjob
obzbiscbvsngybdesqstnddsqoesorfdbshrnd.sJsibkrjabsjosucshgjob,sqhsjo
vybstjiusqneqajrnhshvqttsrtsvyqvstdqmspyjaysJstdjomsyqdtsrnvsvrsvyb
pride.

QggdcsvyjhshgjoqdsfiqoaysrtsgyibordrmcsvrsvybsHgbiusPyqdb.sYjhsaiqojqd
aqzjvcsjhsarovjonrnhspjvysvybstjihvsoba -zbivbfiq;sqoesjosvyqvszbivbfiq
vybsfrvvrusrtsvybshgjoqdsaqoqdspjddsubqhnibsvbosjoaybhsqairhh,sfbjom
bjmyvsjosybjmyv,sqoesrtsqsvijqomndqistjmnibspjvysvybsfqhbserpopqieh.sQh
jvsgqhhbhsvyirnmysvybsibuqjojomszbivbfiæsvybsaqoqdsvqgbihsjoshjwb,sfnv
trisqsarohjebiqfdbsejhvqoabsibuqjohsrtsdqimbsaqgqajvc.sOrp,srtsarnihb,
vyjhsaqoqdsjhstjddbespjvysunaysvybshqubshviqombdcstjfirnhshnfhvqoab—vyb
hgjoqdsarie—qhsvybsfiqjo;sqoesejibavdcsaruunojaqvbhspjvysvybsfiqjo.sQoe
pyqvsjhshvjddsurib,strisuqocstbbvsqtvbisbubimjomstirusvybsfiqjo’h
aqzjvc,svybshgjoqdsariesibuqjohsrtsqosnoebaibqhjomsmjivy,sqdurhvsblnqd
vrsvyqvsrtsvybsfiqjo.sNoebisqddsvybhbsajianuhvqoabh,sprndesjvsfb
noibqhroqfdbsvrshnizbcsqoesuqgsrnvsvybspyqdb’hshgjobsgyibordrmjaqddc?
Tri,szjbpbesjosvyjhsdjmyv,svybsproebitndsarugqiqvjzbshuqddobhhsrtsyjh
fiqjosgirgbisjhsuribsvyqosarugbohqvbesfcsvybsproebitndsarugqiqvjzb
uqmojvnebsrtsyjhshgjoqdsarie.

Fnvsdbqzjomsvyjhsyjovsvrsrgbiqvbsqhsjvsuqcspjvysvybsgyibordrmjhvh,sJ
prndesubibdcsqhhnubsvybshgjoqdsvybricstrisqsurubov,sjosibtbiboabsvrsvyb
HgbiusPyqdb’hsynug.sVyjhsqnmnhvsynug,sjtsJsujhvq bsorv,sijhbhsrzbisrob
rtsvybsdqimbiszbivbfiæ,sqoesjh,svybibtrib,sjoshrubshriv,svybsrnvbi
arozbxsurndesrtsjv.sTirusjvhsibdqvjzbshjvnqvjrosvybo,sJshyrndesaqdd
vyjhsyjmysynugsvybsrimqosrtstjiuobhhsrisjoerujvqfdbobhhsjosvybsHgbiu
Pyqdb.sQoesvyqvsvybsmibqvsurohvbisjhsjoerujvqfdb,scrnspjddscbvsyqzb
ibqhrosvrs orp.


AYQGVBIs81.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsZjimjo.

Vybsgibebhvjoqvbeseqcsqiijzbe,sqoespbsendcsubvsvybshyjgsKnomtiqn,
Ebija sEbsEbbi,suqhvbi,srtsFibubo.

Qvsrobsvjubsvybsmibqvbhvspyqdjomsgbrgdbsjosvybspride,svybsEnvaysqoe
Mbiuqohsqibsorpsquromsvybsdbqhv;sfnvsybibsqoesvybibsqvszbicspjeb
jovbizqdhsrtsdqvjvnebsqoesdromjvneb,scrnshvjddsraaqhjroqddcsubbvspjvy
vybjistdqmsjosvybsGqajtja.

Trishrubsibqhro,svybsKnomtiqnshbbubeslnjvbsbqmbisvrsgqcsybisibhgbavh.
PyjdbscbvshrubsejhvqoabstirusvybsGblnre,shybsirnoebesvr,sqoeseirggjomsq
frqv,sybisaqgvqjospqhsjugbddbesvrpqiehsnh,sjugqvjbovdcshvqoejomsjosvyb
frphsjohvbqesrtsvybshvbio.

“Pyqvsyqhsybsjosyjhsyqoesvybib?”saijbesHvqifna ,sgrjovjomsvrshrubvyjom
pqzjomdcsybdesfcsvybsMbiuqo.s“Jugrhhjfdb!—qsdqug-tbbebi!”

“Orvsvyqv,”shqjesHvnff,s“or,sor,sjv’hsqsarttbb-grv,sUi.sHvqifna ;syb’h
arujomsrttsvrsuq bsnhsrnisarttbb,sjhsvybsCqiuqo;sero’vscrnshbbsvyqvsfjm
vjosaqosvybibsqdromhjebsrtsyju?—vyqv’hsyjhsfrjdjomspqvbi.sRy!syb’hsqdd
ijmyv,sjhsvybsCqiuqo.”

“Mrsqdromspjvyscrn,”saijbesTdqh ,s“jv’hsqsdqug-tbbebisqoesqosrjd-aqo.
Yb’hsrnvsrtsrjd,sqoesyqhsarubsq-fbmmjom.”

Yrpbzbisanijrnhsjvsuqcshbbustrisqosrjd-hyjgsvrsfbsfriirpjomsrjdsrosvyb
pyqdb-mirnoe,sqoesyrpbzbisunaysjvsuqcsjozbivbedcsaroviqejavsvybsrde
girzbifsqfrnvsaqiicjomsarqdhsvrsObpaqhvdb,scbvshrubvjubhshnaysqsvyjom
ibqddcsyqggboh;sqoesjosvybsgibhbovsaqhbsAqgvqjosEbija sEbsEbbiseje
joenfjvqfdcsaroenavsqsdqug-tbbebisqhsTdqh sejesebadqib.

Qhsybsurnovbesvybseba ,sQyqfsqfingvdcsqaarhvbesyju,spjvyrnvsqvsqdd
ybbejomspyqvsybsyqesjosyjhsyqoe;sfnvsjosyjhsfir bosdjomr,svybsMbiuqo
hrrosbzjoabesyjhsarugdbvbsjmoriqoabsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb;sjuubejqvbdc
vniojomsvybsarozbihqvjrosvrsyjhsdqug-tbbebisqoesrjdsaqo,spjvyshrub
ibuqi hsvrnayjomsyjhsyqzjomsvrsvniosjovrsyjhsyquura sqvsojmyvsjo
girtrnoeseqi obhh—yjhsdqhvseirgsrtsFibubosrjdsfbjomsmrob,sqoesorvsq
hjomdbstdcjom-tjhyscbvsaqgvnibesvrshnggdcsvybsebtjajboac;saroadnejomsfc
yjovjomsvyqvsyjhshyjgspqhsjoebbespyqvsjosvybsTjhybicsjhsvbayojaqddc
aqddbesqs_adbqo_srobs(vyqvsjh,sqosbugvcsrob),spbddsebhbizjomsvybsoqub
rtsKnomtiqnsrisvybsZjimjo.

Yjhsobabhhjvjbhshnggdjbe,sEbija sebgqivbe;sfnvsybsyqesorvsmqjobesyjh
hyjg’hshjeb,spybospyqdbhspbibsqdurhvshjundvqobrnhdcsiqjhbestirusvyb
uqhv-ybqehsrtsfrvyszbhhbdh;sqoeshrsbqmbistrisvybsayqhbspqhsEbija ,svyqv
pjvyrnvsgqnhjomsvrsgnvsyjhsrjd-aqosqoesdqug-tbbebisqfrqie,sybshdbpbe
irnoesyjhsfrqvsqoesuqebsqtvbisvybsdbzjqvyqosdqug-tbbebih.

Orp,svybsmqubsyqzjomsijhbosvrsdbbpqie,sybsqoesvybsrvybisvyibbsMbiuqo
frqvhsvyqvshrrostrddrpbesyju,syqesarohjebiqfdcsvybshvqivsrtsvyb
Gblnre’hs bbdh.sVybibspbibsbjmyvspyqdbh,sqosqzbiqmbsgre.sQpqibsrtsvybji
eqombi,svybcspbibsmrjomsqddsqfibqhvspjvysmibqvshgbbeshviqjmyvsfbtrib
vybspjoe,sinffjomsvybjistdqo hsqhsadrhbdcsqhshrsuqocshgqohsrtsyrihbhsjo
yqiobhh.sVybcsdbtvsqsmibqv,spjebspq b,sqhsvyrnmysarovjonqddcsnoirddjom
qsmibqvspjebsgqiayubovsngrosvybshbq.

Tnddsjosvyjhsiqgjespq b,sqoesuqocstqvyruhsjosvybsibqi,shpqusqsynmb,
ynugbesrdesfndd,spyjaysfcsyjhsarugqiqvjzbdcshdrpsgirmibhh,sqhspbddsqh
fcsvybsnonhnqdscbddrpjhysjoainhvqvjrohsrzbimirpjomsyju,shbbube
qttdjavbespjvysvybskqnoejab,srishrubsrvybisjotjiujvc.sPybvybisvyjh
pyqdbsfbdrombesvrsvybsgresjosqezqoab,shbbubeslnbhvjroqfdb;strisjvsjh
orvsanhvruqicstrishnayszbobiqfdbsdbzjqvyqohsvrsfbsqvsqddshrajqd.
Obzbivybdbhh,sybshvna svrsvybjispq b,svyrnmysjoebbesvybjisfqa spqvbi
unhvsyqzbsibvqiebesyju,sfbaqnhbsvybspyjvb-frobsrishpbddsqvsyjhsfirqe
unwwdbspqhsqseqhybesrob,sdj bsvybshpbddstriubespybosvprsyrhvjdb
aniibovhsubbv.sYjhshgrnvspqhshyriv,shdrp,sqoesdqfrijrnh;sarujomstrivy
pjvysqsayr jomshrivsrtsmnhy,sqoeshgboejomsjvhbdtsjosvrioshyibeh,
trddrpbesfcshviqombshnfvbiiqobqosaruurvjrohsjosyju,spyjayshbbubesvr
yqzbsbmibhhsqvsyjhsrvybisfnijbesbxvibujvc,saqnhjomsvybspqvbihsfbyjoe
yjusvrsngfnffdb.

“Pyr’hsmrvshrubsgqibmrija?”shqjesHvnff,s“ybsyqhsvybshvruqay-qayb,sJ’u
qtiqje.sDrie,svyjo srtsyqzjomsyqdtsqosqaibsrtshvruqay-qayb!sQezbihb
pjoehsqibsyrdejomsuqesAyijhvuqhsjosyju,sfrch.sJv’hsvybstjihvstrndspjoe
Jsbzbis obpsvrsfdrpstirusqhvbio;sfnvsdrr ,sejesbzbispyqdbscqpshr
fbtrib?sjvsunhvsfb,syb’hsdrhvsyjhsvjddbi.”

QhsqosrzbidqebosJoejquqosfbqijomserposvybsYjoerhvqosarqhvspjvysqseba 
drqesrtstijmyvbobesyrihbh,saqibboh,sfnijbh,sirddh,sqoespqddrphsrosybi
pqc;shrsejesvyjhsrdespyqdbsybqzbsyjhsqmbesfnd ,sqoesorpsqoesvybosgqivdc
vniojomsrzbisrosyjhsanufirnhsijf-boeh,sbxgrhbsvybsaqnhbsrtsyjhsebzjrnh
pq bsjosvybsnooqvniqdshvnugsrtsyjhshvqifrqiestjo.sPybvybisybsyqesdrhv
vyqvstjosjosfqvvdb,srisyqesfbbosfriospjvyrnvsjv,sjvspbibsyqiesvrshqc.

“Rodcspqjvsqsfjv,srdesayqg,sqoesJ’ddsmjzbscbsqshdjomstrisvyqvsprnoebe
qiu,”saijbesainbdsTdqh ,sgrjovjomsvrsvybspyqdb-djobsobqisyju.

“Ujoesybsero’vshdjomsvybbspjvysjv,”saijbesHvqifna .s“Mjzbspqc,srisvyb
Mbiuqospjddsyqzbsyju.”

Pjvysrobsjovbovsqddsvybsarufjobesijzqdsfrqvhspbibsgrjovbestrisvyjhsrob
tjhy,sfbaqnhbsorvsrodcspqhsybsvybsdqimbhv,sqoesvybibtribsvybsurhv
zqdnqfdbspyqdb,sfnvsybspqhsobqibhvsvrsvybu,sqoesvybsrvybispyqdbhspbib
mrjomspjvyshnaysmibqvszbdrajvc,suribrzbi,sqhsqdurhvsvrsebtcsgnihnjvstri
vybsvjub.sQvsvyjhsknoavnibsvybsGblnre’hs bbdhsyqeshyrvsfcsvybsvyibb
Mbiuqosfrqvhsdqhvsdrpbibe;sfnvstirusvybsmibqvshvqivsybsyqesyqe,
Ebija ’hsfrqvshvjddsdbesvybsayqhb,svyrnmysbzbicsurubovsobqibesfcsyjh
tribjmosijzqdh.sVybsrodcsvyjomsvybcstbqibe,spqh,svyqvstirusfbjom
qdibqecshrsojmysvrsyjhsuqi ,sybsprndesfbsboqfdbesvrseqivsyjhsjiro
fbtribsvybcsarndesarugdbvbdcsrzbivq bsqoesgqhhsyju.sQhstrisEbija ,syb
hbbubeslnjvbsarotjebovsvyqvsvyjhsprndesfbsvybsaqhb,sqoesraaqhjroqddc
pjvysqsebijejomsmbhvnibshyrr syjhsdqug-tbbebisqvsvybsrvybisfrqvh.

“Vybsnomiqajrnhsqoesnomiqvbtndserm!”saijbesHvqifna ;s“ybsura hsqoe
eqibhsubspjvysvybszbicsgrri-frxsJstjddbestrisyjusorvstjzbsujonvbh
qmr!”—vybosjosyjhsrdesjovbohbspyjhgbi—“Mjzbspqc,smibcyrnoeh!sErmsvr
jv!”

“Jsvbddscbspyqvsjvsjh,subo”—aijbesHvnffsvrsyjhsaibp—“jv’hsqmqjohvsuc
ibdjmjrosvrsmbvsuqe;sfnvsJ’esdj bsvrsbqvsvyqvszjddqjornh
Cqiuqo—Gndd—pro’vscb?sQibscbsmrjomsvrsdbvsvyqvsiqhaqdsfbqvscb?sErscb
drzbsfiqoec?sQsyrmhybqesrtsfiqoec,svybo,svrsvybsfbhvsuqo.sArub,spyc
ero’vshrubsrtscbsfnihvsqsfdrre-zbhhbd?sPyr’hsvyqvsfbboseirggjomsqo
qoayrisrzbifrqie—pbsero’vsfnembsqosjoay—pb’ibsfbaqdube.sYqddrr,sybib’h
miqhhsmirpjomsjosvybsfrqv’hsfrvvru—qoesfcsvybsDrie,svybsuqhvsvybib’h
fneejom.sVyjhspro’vser,sfrch.sDrr sqvsvyqvsCqiuqo!sVybshyrivsqoesdrom
rtsjvsjh,subo,spjddscbshgjvstjibsrisorv?”

“Ry!shbbsvybshnehsybsuq bh!”saijbesTdqh ,seqoajomsngsqoeserpo—“Pyqvsq
ynug—Ry,s_er_sgjdbsrosvybsfbbt—dqchsdj bsqsdrm!sRy!sucsdqeh,s_er_
hgijom—hdqg-kqa hsqoeslnqyrmhstrishnggbi,scrns orp,sucsdqeh—fq besadquh
qoesunttjoh—ry,s_er_,s_er_,shgijom,—yb’hsqsynoeibesfqiibddbi—ero’vsdrhb
yjusorp—ero’vsry,s_ero’v!_—hbbsvyqvsCqiuqo—Ry,spro’vscbsgnddstriscrni
entt,sucsdqeh—hnaysqshrm!shnaysqshrmmbi!sEro’vscbsdrzbshgbiu?sVybib
mrbhsvyibbsvyrnhqoeserddqih,subo!—qsfqo !—qspyrdbsfqo !sVybsfqo srt
Bomdqoe!—Ry,s_er_,s_er_,s_er!_—Pyqv’hsvyqvsCqiuqosqfrnvsorp?”

QvsvyjhsurubovsEbija spqhsjosvybsqavsrtsgjvayjomsyjhsdqug-tbbebisqvsvyb
qezqoajomsfrqvh,sqoesqdhrsyjhsrjd-aqo;sgbiyqghspjvysvybsernfdbszjbpsrt
ibvqiejomsyjhsijzqdh’spqc,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsbarorujaqddc
qaabdbiqvjomsyjhsrposfcsvybsurubovqicsjugbvnhsrtsvybsfqa pqiesvrhh.

“VybsnouqoobidcsEnvaysermmbi!”saijbesHvnff.s“Gnddsorp,subo,sdj bstjtvc
vyrnhqoesdjob-rt-fqvvdb-hyjgsdrqehsrtsibe-yqjibesebzjdh.sPyqvse’cbshqc,
Vqhyvbmr;sqibscrnsvybsuqosvrshoqgscrnishgjobsjosvpr-qoe-vpbovcsgjbabh
trisvybsyrorisrtsrdesMqcybqe?sPyqvse’cbshqc?”

“Jshqc,sgnddsdj bsmre-equ,”—aijbesvybsJoejqo.

Tjbiabdc,sfnvsbzbodcsjoajvbesfcsvybsvqnovhsrtsvybsMbiuqo,svybsGblnre’h
vyibbsfrqvhsorpsfbmqosiqomjomsqdurhvsqfibqhv;sqoe,shrsejhgrhbe,
urubovqijdcsobqibesyju.sJosvyqvstjob,sdrrhb,sayjzqdirnhsqvvjvnebsrtsvyb
ybqehuqospyboseiqpjomsobqisvrsyjhsgibc,svybsvyibbsuqvbhshvrresng
girnedc,sraaqhjroqddcsfqa jomsvybsqtvbisrqihuqospjvysqosbxyjdqiqvjom
aicsrt,s“Vybibshybshdjebh,sorp!sYniiqystrisvybspyjvb-qhysfibbwb!sErpo
pjvysvybsCqiuqo!sHqjdsrzbisyju!”

FnvshrsebajebesqosrijmjoqdshvqivsyqesEbija syqe,svyqvshgjvbsrtsqdd
vybjismqddqovic,sybsprndesyqzbsgirzbesvybszjavrisjosvyjhsiqab,syqesorv
qsijmyvbrnhsknemubovsebhaboebesngrosyjusjosqsaiqfspyjaysaqnmyvsvyb
fdqebsrtsyjhsujehyjgsrqihuqo.sPyjdbsvyjhsadnuhcsdnffbispqhshvijzjomsvr
tibbsyjhspyjvb-qhy,sqoespyjdb,sjosarohblnboab,sEbija ’hsfrqvspqhsojmy
vrsaqghjwjom,sqoesybsvynoebijomsqpqcsqvsyjhsubosjosqsujmyvcsiqmb;—vyqv
pqhsqsmrresvjubstrisHvqifna ,sHvnff,sqoesTdqh .sPjvysqshyrnv,svybcsvrr 
qsurivqdshvqivstripqieh,sqoeshdqovjomdcsiqombesngsrosvybsMbiuqo’h
lnqivbi.sQosjohvqovsurib,sqoesqddstrnisfrqvhspbibsejqmrojaqddcsjosvyb
pyqdb’hsjuubejqvbspq b,spyjdbshvibvayjomstirusvybu,srosfrvyshjebh,spqh
vybstrqujomshpbddsvyqvsybsuqeb.

Jvspqhsqsvbiijtja,surhvsgjvjqfdb,sqoesuqeebojomshjmyv.sVybspyqdbspqh
orpsmrjomsybqesrnv,sqoeshboejomsyjhshgrnvsfbtribsyjusjosqsarovjonqd
vriubovbeskbv;spyjdbsyjhsrobsgrristjosfbqvsyjhshjebsjosqosqmrocsrt
tijmyv.sOrpsvrsvyjhsyqoe,sorpsvrsvyqv,sybscqpbesjosyjhstqdvbijom
tdjmyv,sqoeshvjddsqvsbzbicsfjddrpsvyqvsybsfir b,sybshgqhurejaqddcshqo 
josvybshbq,srishjebpqchsirddbesvrpqiehsvybsh csyjhsrobsfbqvjomstjo.sHr
yqzbsJshbbosqsfjiespjvysadjggbespjomsuq jomsqttijmyvbesfir bosajiadbh
josvybsqji,szqjodcshvijzjomsvrsbhaqgbsvybsgjiqvjaqdsyqp h.sFnvsvybsfjie
yqhsqszrjab,sqoespjvysgdqjovjzbsaijbhspjddsuq bs orposybistbqi;sfnvsvyb
tbqisrtsvyjhszqhvsenufsfinvbsrtsvybshbq,spqhsayqjobesngsqoesboayqovbe
josyju;sybsyqesorszrjab,shqzbsvyqvsayr jomsibhgjiqvjrosvyirnmysyjh
hgjiqadb,sqoesvyjhsuqebsvybshjmyvsrtsyjusnohgbq qfdcsgjvjqfdb;spyjdb
hvjdd,sjosyjhsquqwjomsfnd ,sgrivanddjhskqp,sqoesruojgrvbovsvqjd,svybib
pqhsbornmysvrsqggqdsvybshvrnvbhvsuqospyrshrsgjvjbe.

HbbjomsorpsvyqvsfnvsqszbicstbpsurubovhsuribsprndesmjzbsvybsGblnre’h
frqvhsvybsqezqovqmb,sqoesiqvybisvyqosfbsvynhstrjdbesrtsyjhsmqub,sEbija 
ayrhbsvrsyqwqiespyqvsvrsyjusunhvsyqzbshbbubesqsurhvsnonhnqddcsdrom
eqiv,sbibsvybsdqhvsayqoabsprndestrisbzbisbhaqgb.

Fnvsorshrrobisejesyjhsyqigrrobbishvqoesngstrisvybshvir b,svyqosqdd
vyibbsvjmbih—Lnbblnbm,sVqhyvbmr,sEqmmrr—johvjoavjzbdcshgiqomsvrsvybji
tbbv,sqoeshvqoejomsjosqsejqmroqdsirp,shjundvqobrnhdcsgrjovbesvybji
fqifh;sqoeseqivbesrzbisvybsybqesrtsvybsMbiuqosyqigrrobbi,svybjisvyibb
Oqovna bvsjirohsbovbibesvybspyqdb.sFdjoejomszqgrihsrtstrqusqoe
pyjvb-tjib!sVybsvyibbsfrqvh,sjosvybstjihvstnicsrtsvybspyqdb’hsybqedrom
inhy,sfnugbesvybsMbiuqo’hsqhjebspjvyshnaystriab,svyqvsfrvysEbija sqoe
yjhsfqttdbesyqigrrobbispbibshgjddbesrnv,sqoeshqjdbesrzbisfcsvybsvyibb
tdcjoms bbdh.

“Ero’vsfbsqtiqje,sucsfnvvbi-frxbh,”saijbesHvnff,saqhvjomsqsgqhhjom
mdqoabsngrosvybusqhsybshyrvsfc;s“cb’ddsfbsgja besngsgibhbovdc—qdd
ijmyv—Jshqpshrubshyqi hsqhvbio—Hv.sFbioqie’hsermh,scrns orp—ibdjbzb
ejhvibhhbesviqzbddbih.sYniiqy!svyjhsjhsvybspqcsvrshqjdsorp.sBzbics bbd
qshnofbqu!sYniiqy!—Ybibspbsmrsdj bsvyibbsvjos bvvdbhsqvsvybsvqjdsrtsq
uqesarnmqi!sVyjhsgnvhsubsjosujoesrtstqhvbojomsvrsqosbdbgyqovsjosq
vjdfnicsrosqsgdqjo—uq bhsvybspybbd-hgr bhstdc,sfrch,spyboscrnstqhvbosvr
yjusvyqvspqc;sqoesvybib’hseqombisrtsfbjomsgjvaybesrnvsvrr,spyboscrn
hvij bsqsyjdd.sYniiqy!svyjhsjhsvybspqcsqstbddrpstbbdhspybosyb’hsmrjom
vrsEqzcsKrobh—qddsqsinhyserposqosboedbhhsjoadjobesgdqob!sYniiqy!svyjh
pyqdbsaqiijbhsvybsbzbidqhvjomsuqjd!”

Fnvsvybsurohvbi’hsinospqhsqsfijbtsrob.sMjzjomsqshneebosmqhg,syb
vnundvnrnhdcshrnoebe.sPjvysqsmiqvjomsinhy,svybsvyibbsdjobhstdbpsirnoe
vybsdrmmbiybqehspjvyshnaysqstriabsqhsvrsmrnmbsebbgsmirrzbhsjosvybu;
pyjdbshrstbqitndspbibsvybsyqigrrobbihsvyqvsvyjhsiqgjeshrnoejomsprnde
hrrosbxyqnhvsvybsdjobh,svyqvsnhjomsqddsvybjisebxvbirnhsujmyv,svybc
aqnmyvsibgbqvbeshur jomsvniohspjvysvybsirgbsvrsyrdesro;svjddsqv
dqhv—rpjomsvrsvybsgbigboejandqishviqjostirusvybsdbqe-djobesayra hsrt
vybsfrqvh,spyboabsvybsvyibbsirgbhspbovshviqjmyvserposjovrsvybsfdnb—vyb
mnopqdbhsrtsvybsfrphspbibsqdurhvsbzbospjvysvybspqvbi,spyjdbsvybsvyibb
hvbiohsvjdvbesyjmysjosvybsqji.sQoesvybspyqdbshrrosabqhjomsvrshrnoe,stri
hrubsvjubsvybcsibuqjobesjosvyqvsqvvjvneb,stbqitndsrtsbxgboejomsurib
djob,svyrnmysvybsgrhjvjrospqhsqsdjvvdbsvja djhy.sFnvsvyrnmysfrqvhsyqzb
fbbosvq boserposqoesdrhvsjosvyjhspqc,scbvsjvsjhsvyjhs“yrdejomsro,”sqh
jvsjhsaqddbe;svyjhsyrr jomsngsfcsvybshyqigsfqifhsrtsyjhsdjzbstdbhystiru
vybsfqa ;svyjhsjvsjhsvyqvsrtvbosvriubovhsvybsDbzjqvyqosjovrshrrosijhjom
qmqjosvrsubbvsvybshyqigsdqoabsrtsyjhstrbh.sCbvsorvsvrshgbq srtsvyb
gbijdsrtsvybsvyjom,sjvsjhsvrsfbsernfvbespybvybisvyjhsarnihbsjhsqdpqch
vybsfbhv;strisjvsjhsfnvsibqhroqfdbsvrsgibhnub,svyqvsvybsdrombisvyb
hvija bospyqdbshvqchsnoebispqvbi,svybsuribsybsjhsbxyqnhvbe.sFbaqnhb,
rpjomsvrsvybsboriurnhshnitqabsrtsyju—josqstnddsmirposhgbiuspyqdb
hrubvyjomsdbhhsvyqos2000shlnqibstbbv—vybsgibhhnibsrtsvybspqvbisjh
juubohb.sPbsqdds orpspyqvsqosqhvrojhyjomsqvurhgybijaspbjmyvspb
rnihbdzbhshvqoesngsnoebi;sbzbosybib,sqfrzb-mirnoe,sjosvybsqji;syrp
zqhv,svybo,svybsfniebosrtsqspyqdb,sfbqijomsrosyjhsfqa sqsardnuosrtsvpr
ynoeibestqvyruhsrtsrabqo!sJvsunhvsqvsdbqhvsblnqdsvybspbjmyvsrtstjtvc
qvurhgybibh.sRobspyqdbuqosyqhsbhvjuqvbesjvsqvsvybspbjmyvsrtsvpbovc
djob-rt-fqvvdbshyjgh,spjvysqddsvybjismnoh,sqoeshvribh,sqoesubosro
frqie.

Qhsvybsvyibbsfrqvhsdqcsvybibsrosvyqvsmbovdcsirddjomshbq,smqwjomserpo
jovrsjvhsbvbioqdsfdnbsorro;sqoesqhsorvsqshjomdbsmirqosrisaicsrtsqoc
hriv,soqc,sorvshrsunaysqhsqsijggdbsrisqsfnffdbsaqubsngstirusjvhsebgvyh;
pyqvsdqoehuqosprndesyqzbsvyrnmyv,svyqvsfbobqvysqddsvyqvshjdboabsqoe
gdqajejvc,svybsnvurhvsurohvbisrtsvybshbqhspqhspijvyjomsqoespiboayjomsjo
qmroc!sOrvsbjmyvsjoaybhsrtsgbigboejandqisirgbspbibszjhjfdbsqvsvybsfrph.
HbbuhsjvsaibejfdbsvyqvsfcsvyibbshnaysvyjosvyibqehsvybsmibqvsDbzjqvyqo
pqhshnhgboebesdj bsvybsfjmspbjmyvsvrsqosbjmyvseqcsadra .sHnhgboebe?sqoe
vrspyqv?sVrsvyibbsfjvhsrtsfrqie.sJhsvyjhsvybsaibqvnibsrtspyrusjvspqh
roabshrsvijnugyqovdcshqje—“Aqohvsvyrnstjddsyjhsh jospjvysfqifbesjiroh?
risyjhsybqespjvystjhy-hgbqih?sVybshpriesrtsyjusvyqvsdqcbvysqvsyju
aqoorvsyrde,svybshgbqi,svybseqiv,sorisvybsyqfbimbro:sybsbhvbbubvysjiro
qhshviqp;svybsqiirpsaqoorvsuq bsyjustdbb;seqivhsqibsarnovbesqhshvnffdb;
ybsdqnmybvysqvsvybshyq jomsrtsqshgbqi!”sVyjhsvybsaibqvnib?svyjhsyb?sRy!
vyqvsnotndtjdubovhshyrndestrddrpsvybsgirgybvh.sTrispjvysvybshvibomvysrt
qsvyrnhqoesvyjmyhsjosyjhsvqjd,sDbzjqvyqosyqesinosyjhsybqesnoebisvyb
urnovqjohsrtsvybshbq,svrsyjebsyjustirusvybsGblnre’hstjhy-hgbqih!

Josvyqvshdrgjomsqtvbiorroshnodjmyv,svybshyqerphsvyqvsvybsvyibbsfrqvh
hbovserposfbobqvysvybshnitqab,sunhvsyqzbsfbbosdromsbornmysqoesfirqe
bornmysvrshyqebsyqdtsXbixbh’sqiuc.sPyrsaqosvbddsyrpsqggqddjomsvrsvyb
prnoebespyqdbsunhvsyqzbsfbboshnaysynmbsgyqovruhstdjvvjomsrzbisyjhsybqe!

“Hvqoesfc,subo;sybshvjih,”saijbesHvqifna ,sqhsvybsvyibbsdjobhshneebodc
zjfiqvbesjosvybspqvbi,sejhvjoavdcsaroenavjomsngpqiehsvrsvybu,sqhsfc
uqmobvjaspjibh,svybsdjtbsqoesebqvysvyirfhsrtsvybspyqdb,shrsvyqvsbzbic
rqihuqostbdvsvybusjosyjhshbqv.sVybsobxvsurubov,sibdjbzbesjosmibqvsgqiv
tirusvybserpopqieshviqjosqvsvybsfrph,svybsfrqvhsmqzbsqshneebosfrnoab
ngpqieh,sqhsqshuqddsjabtjbdespjdd,spybosqsebohbsybiesrtspyjvbsfbqihsqib
haqibestirusjvsjovrsvybshbq.

“Yqndsjo!sYqndsjo!”saijbesHvqifna sqmqjo;s“yb’hsijhjom.”

Vybsdjobh,srtspyjay,syqiedcsqosjohvqovsfbtrib,sorvsrobsyqoe’hsfibqevy
arndesyqzbsfbbosmqjobe,spbibsorpsjosdromslnja sarjdhstdnomsfqa sqdd
eijggjomsjovrsvybsfrqvh,sqoeshrrosvybspyqdbsfir bspqvbispjvyjosvpr
hyjg’hsdbomvyhsrtsvybsynovbih.

Yjhsurvjrohsgdqjodcseborvbesyjhsbxvibubsbxyqnhvjro.sJosurhvsdqoe
qojuqdhsvybibsqibsabivqjoszqdzbhsristdrre-mqvbhsjosuqocsrtsvybjiszbjoh,
pybibfcspybosprnoebe,svybsfdrresjhsjoshrubsebmibbsqvsdbqhvsjohvqovdc
hynvsrttsjosabivqjosejibavjroh.sOrvshrspjvysvybspyqdb;srobsrtspyrhb
gbandjqijvjbhsjvsjhsvrsyqzbsqosbovjibsoro-zqdzndqishvinavnibsrtsvyb
fdrre-zbhhbdh,shrsvyqvspybosgjbiabesbzbosfcshrshuqddsqsgrjovsqhsq
yqigrro,sqsebqedcseiqjosjhsqvsroabsfbmnosngrosyjhspyrdbsqivbijqd
hchvbu;sqoespybosvyjhsjhsybjmyvbobesfcsvybsbxviqriejoqicsgibhhnibsrt
pqvbisqvsqsmibqvsejhvqoabsfbdrpsvybshnitqab,syjhsdjtbsuqcsfbshqjesvr
grnistirusyjusjosjoabhhqovshvibquh.sCbvshrszqhvsjhsvybslnqovjvcsrt
fdrresjosyju,sqoeshrsejhvqovsqoesonubirnhsjvhsjovbijristrnovqjoh,svyqv
ybspjdds bbgsvynhsfdbbejomsqoesfdbbejomstrisqsarohjebiqfdbsgbijre;sbzbo
qhsjosqseirnmyvsqsijzbispjddstdrp,spyrhbshrniabsjhsjosvybspbdd-hgijomh
rtstqi-rttsqoesnoejhabiojfdbsyjddh.sBzbosorp,spybosvybsfrqvhsgnddbe
ngrosvyjhspyqdb,sqoesgbijdrnhdcseibpsrzbisyjhshpqcjomstdn bh,sqoesvyb
dqoabhspbibseqivbesjovrsyju,svybcspbibstrddrpbesfcshvbqecskbvhstirusvyb
obpsuqebsprnoe,spyjays bgvsarovjonqddcsgdqcjom,spyjdbsvybsoqvniqd
hgrnv-yrdbsjosyjhsybqespqhsrodcsqvsjovbizqdh,syrpbzbisiqgje,shboejom
jvhsqttijmyvbesurjhvnibsjovrsvybsqji.sTirusvyjhsdqhvszbovsorsfdrrescbv
aqub,sfbaqnhbsorszjvqdsgqivsrtsyjusyqesvynhstqisfbboshvina .sYjhsdjtb,
qhsvybcshjmojtjaqovdcsaqddsjv,spqhsnovrnaybe.

Qhsvybsfrqvhsorpsuribsadrhbdcshniirnoebesyju,svybspyrdbsnggbisgqivsrt
yjhstriu,spjvysunaysrtsjvsvyqvsjhsriejoqijdcshnfubimbe,spqhsgdqjodc
ibzbqdbe.sYjhsbcbh,srisiqvybisvybsgdqabhspybibsyjhsbcbhsyqesfbbo,spbib
fbybde.sQhshviqombsujhmirposuqhhbhsmqvybisjosvybs orv-yrdbhsrtsvyb
orfdbhvsrq hspybosgirhviqvb,shrstirusvybsgrjovhspyjaysvybspyqdb’hsbcbh
yqesroabsraangjbe,sorpsgirvinebesfdjoesfndfh,syriijfdcsgjvjqfdbsvrshbb.
Fnvsgjvcsvybibspqhsorob.sTrisqddsyjhsrdesqmb,sqoesyjhsrobsqiu,sqoesyjh
fdjoesbcbh,sybsunhvsejbsvybsebqvysqoesfbsuniebibe,sjosriebisvrsdjmyv
vybsmqcsfijeqdhsqoesrvybisubiic-uq jomhsrtsubo,sqoesqdhrsvrsjddnujoqvb
vybshrdbuosayniaybhsvyqvsgibqaysnoaroejvjroqdsjorttbohjzbobhhsfcsqddsvr
qdd.sHvjddsirddjomsjosyjhsfdrre,sqvsdqhvsybsgqivjqddcsejhadrhbesq
hviqombdcsejhardrnibesfnoaysrisgirvnfbiqoab,svybshjwbsrtsqsfnhybd,sdrp
erposrosvybstdqo .

“Qsojabshgrv,”saijbesTdqh ;s“knhvsdbvsubsgija syjusvybibsroab.”

“Qzqhv!”saijbesHvqifna ,s“vybib’hsorsobbesrtsvyqv!”

FnvsynuqobsHvqifna spqhsvrrsdqvb.sQvsvybsjohvqovsrtsvybseqivsqo
ndabirnhskbvshyrvstirusvyjhsainbdsprnoe,sqoesmrqebesfcsjvsjovrsurib
vyqoshnttbiqfdbsqomnjhy,svybspyqdbsorpshgrnvjomsvyja sfdrre,spjvyshpjtv
tnicsfdjoedcseqivbesqvsvybsaiqtv,sfbhgqvvbijomsvybusqoesvybjismdricjom
aibphsqddsrzbispjvyshyrpbihsrtsmrib,saqghjwjomsTdqh ’hsfrqvsqoesuqiijom
vybsfrph.sJvspqhsyjhsebqvyshvir b.sTri,sfcsvyjhsvjub,shrshgbovspqhsyb
fcsdrhhsrtsfdrre,svyqvsybsybdgdbhhdcsirddbesqpqcstirusvybspiba sybsyqe
uqeb;sdqcsgqovjomsrosyjhshjeb,sjugrvbovdcstdqggbespjvysyjhshvnugbestjo,
vybosrzbisqoesrzbishdrpdcsibzrdzbesdj bsqspqojomspride;svniobesngsvyb
pyjvbshbaibvhsrtsyjhsfbddc;sdqcsdj bsqsdrm,sqoesejbe.sJvspqhsurhv
gjvbrnh,svyqvsdqhvsbxgjijomshgrnv.sQhspybosfcsnohbbosyqoehsvybspqvbisjh
miqenqddcseiqposrttstirushrubsujmyvcstrnovqjo,sqoespjvysyqdt-hvjtdbe
ubdqoayrdcsmnimdjomhsvybshgiqc-ardnuosdrpbihsqoesdrpbihsvrsvyb
mirnoe—hrsvybsdqhvsdromsecjomshgrnvsrtsvybspyqdb.

Hrro,spyjdbsvybsaibphspbibsqpqjvjomsvybsqiijzqdsrtsvybshyjg,svybsfrec
hyrpbeshcugvruhsrtshjo jomspjvysqddsjvhsvibqhnibhsnoijtdbe.
Juubejqvbdc,sfcsHvqifna ’hsriebih,sdjobhspbibshbanibesvrsjvsqv
ejttbibovsgrjovh,shrsvyqvsbibsdromsbzbicsfrqvspqhsqsfnrc;svybshno bo
pyqdbsfbjomshnhgboebesqstbpsjoaybhsfbobqvysvybusfcsvybsarieh.sFcszbic
ybbetndsuqoqmbubov,spybosvybshyjgseibpsojmy,svybspyqdbspqhsviqohtbiibe
vrsybishjeb,sqoespqhshviromdcshbanibesvybibsfcsvybshvjttbhv
tdn b-ayqjoh,strisjvspqhsgdqjosvyqvsnodbhhsqivjtjajqddcsngybde,svyb
frecsprndesqvsroabshjo svrsvybsfrvvru.

Jvshrsayqoabesvyqvsqdurhvsngrostjihvsanvvjomsjovrsyjuspjvysvybshgqeb,
vybsbovjibsdbomvysrtsqsariirebesyqigrrospqhstrnoesjufbeebesjosyjh
tdbhy,srosvybsdrpbisgqivsrtsvybsfnoaysfbtribsebhaijfbe.sFnvsqhsvyb
hvnughsrtsyqigrrohsqibstiblnbovdcstrnoesjosvybsebqesfrejbhsrtsaqgvnibe
pyqdbh,spjvysvybstdbhysgbitbavdcsybqdbesqirnoesvybu,sqoesorsgirujoboab
rtsqocs joesvrseborvbsvybjisgdqab;svybibtrib,svybibsunhvsobbehsyqzb
fbboshrubsrvybisno orposibqhrosjosvybsgibhbovsaqhbstnddcsvrsqaarnovstri
vybsndabiqvjrosqddnebesvr.sFnvshvjddsuribsanijrnhspqhsvybstqavsrtsq
dqoab-ybqesrtshvrobsfbjomstrnoesjosyju,sorvstqistirusvybsfnijbesjiro,
vybstdbhysgbitbavdcstjiusqfrnvsjv.sPyrsyqeseqivbesvyqvshvrobsdqoab?sQoe
pybo?sJvsujmyvsyqzbsfbboseqivbesfcshrubsOri’sPbhvsJoejqosdromsfbtrib
Qubijaqspqhsejharzbibe.

Pyqvsrvybisuqizbdhsujmyvsyqzbsfbbosinuuqmbesrnvsrtsvyjhsurohvirnh
aqfjobvsvybibsjhsorsvbddjom.sFnvsqshneeboshvrgspqhsgnvsvrstnivybi
ejharzbijbh,sfcsvybshyjg’hsfbjomsnogibabebovbedcseiqmmbesrzbishjebpqch
vrsvybshbq,srpjomsvrsvybsfrec’hsjuubohbdcsjoaibqhjomsvboeboacsvrshjo .
Yrpbzbi,sHvqifna ,spyrsyqesvybsriebijomsrtsqttqjih,synomsrosvrsjvsvr
vybsdqhv;synomsrosvrsjvshrsibhrdnvbdc,sjoebbe,svyqvspybosqvsdbomvysvyb
hyjgsprndesyqzbsfbbosaqghjwbe,sjtshvjddsgbihjhvjomsjosdra jomsqiuhspjvy
vybsfrec;svybo,spybosvybsaruuqoespqhsmjzbosvrsfibq sadbqistirusjv,shnay
pqhsvybsjuurzqfdbshviqjosngrosvybsvjufbi-ybqehsvrspyjaysvyb
tdn b-ayqjohsqoesaqfdbhspbibstqhvbobe,svyqvsjvspqhsjugrhhjfdbsvrsaqhv
vybusrtt.sUbqovjubsbzbicvyjomsjosvybsGblnrespqhsqhdqov.sVrsairhhsvrsvyb
rvybishjebsrtsvybseba spqhsdj bspqd jomsngsvybshvbbgsmqfdbesirrtsrtsq
yrnhb.sVybshyjgsmirqobesqoesmqhgbe.sUqocsrtsvybsjzricsjodqcjomhsrtsybi
fndpqi hsqoesaqfjohspbibshvqivbestirusvybjisgdqabh,sfcsvybsnooqvniqd
ejhdraqvjro.sJoszqjosyqoehgj bhsqoesairphspbibsfirnmyvsvrsfbqisngrosvyb
juurzqfdbstdn b-ayqjoh,svrsgicsvybusqeijtvstirusvybsvjufbiybqeh;sqoeshr
drpsyqesvybspyqdbsorpshbvvdbesvyqvsvybshnfubimbesboehsarndesorvsfbsqv
qddsqggirqaybe,spyjdbsbzbicsurubovspyrdbsvrohsrtsgroebirhjvcshbbube
qeebesvrsvybshjo jomsfnd ,sqoesvybshyjgshbbubesrosvybsgrjovsrtsmrjom
rzbi.

“Yrdesro,syrdesro,spro’vscb?”saijbesHvnffsvrsvybsfrec,s“ero’vsfbsjo
hnaysqsebzjdsrtsqsyniicsvrshjo !sFcsvynoebi,subo,spbsunhvsershrubvyjom
rismrstrisjv.sOrsnhbsgicjomsvybib;sqzqhv,sJshqcspjvyscrnisyqoehgj bh,
qoesinosrobsrtscbstrisqsgiqcbisfrr sqoesqsgbo- ojtb,sqoesanvsvybsfjm
ayqjoh.”

“ ojtb?sQcb,sqcb,”saijbesLnbblnbm,sqoeshbjwjomsvybsaqigbovbi’hsybqzc
yqvaybv,sybsdbqobesrnvsrtsqsgrivyrdb,sqoeshvbbdsvrsjiro,sfbmqoshdqhyjom
qvsvybsdqimbhvstdn b-ayqjoh.sFnvsqstbpshvir bh,stnddsrtshgqi h,spbib
mjzbo,spybosvybsbxabbejomshviqjosbttbavbesvybsibhv.sPjvysqsvbiijtja
hoqg,sbzbicstqhvbojomspbovsqeijtv;svybshyjgsijmyvbe,svybsaqiaqhbshqo .

Orp,svyjhsraaqhjroqdsjobzjvqfdbshjo jomsrtsvybsibabovdcs jddbesHgbiu
Pyqdbsjhsqszbicsanijrnhsvyjom;sorisyqhsqocstjhybiuqoscbvsqeblnqvbdc
qaarnovbestrisjv.sNhnqddcsvybsebqesHgbiusPyqdbstdrqvhspjvysmibqv
fnrcqoac,spjvysjvhshjebsrisfbddcsarohjebiqfdcsbdbzqvbesqfrzbsvyb
hnitqab.sJtsvybsrodcspyqdbhsvyqvsvynhshqo spbibsrde,subqmib,sqoe
fir bo-ybqivbesaibqvnibh,svybjisgqehsrtsdqiesejujojhybesqoesqddsvybji
frobhsybqzcsqoesiybnuqvja;svyboscrnsujmyvspjvyshrubsibqhrosqhhbivsvyqv
vyjhshjo jomsjhsaqnhbesfcsqosnoaruuroshgbajtjasmiqzjvcsjosvybstjhyshr
hjo jom,sarohblnbovsngrosvyjhsqfhboabsrtsfnrcqovsuqvvbisjosyju.sFnvsjv
jhsorvshr.sTriscrnomspyqdbh,sjosvybsyjmybhvsybqdvy,sqoeshpbddjomspjvy
orfdbsqhgjiqvjroh,sgibuqvnibdcsanvsrttsjosvybspqiustdnhysqoesUqcsrt
djtb,spjvysqddsvybjisgqovjomsdqiesqfrnvsvybu;sbzbosvybhbsfiqpoc,
fnrcqovsybirbhsershrubvjubhshjo .

Fbsjvshqje,syrpbzbi,svyqvsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsjhstqisdbhhsdjqfdbsvrsvyjh
qaajebovsvyqosqocsrvybishgbajbh.sPybibsrobsrtsvyqvshrivsmrserpo,svpbovc
IjmyvsPyqdbhser.sVyjhsejttbiboabsjosvybshgbajbhsjhsorsernfvsjugnvqfdb
josorshuqddsebmibbsvrsvybsmibqvbislnqovjvcsrtsfrobsjosvybsIjmyvsPyqdb;
yjhsZbobvjqosfdjoehsqdrobshrubvjubhspbjmyjomsuribsvyqosqsvro;stirusvyjh
joanufiqoabsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsjhspyrddcstibb.sFnvsvybibsqibsjohvqoabh
pybib,sqtvbisvybsdqghbsrtsuqocsyrnihsrishbzbiqdseqch,svybshno bospyqdb
qmqjosijhbh,suribsfnrcqovsvyqosjosdjtb.sFnvsvybsibqhrosrtsvyjhsjh
rfzjrnh.sMqhbhsqibsmbobiqvbesjosyju;sybshpbddhsvrsqsgirejmjrnh
uqmojvneb;sfbarubhsqshrivsrtsqojuqdsfqddrro.sQsdjob-rt-fqvvdbshyjg
arndesyqiedcs bbgsyjusnoebisvybo.sJosvybsHyribsPyqdjom,sroshrnoejomh,
quromsvybsFqchsrtsObpsWbqdqoe,spybosqsIjmyvsPyqdbsmjzbhsvr bosrt
hjo jom,svybcstqhvbosfnrchsvrsyju,spjvysgdbovcsrtsirgb;shrsvyqvspybo
vybsfrecsyqhsmrobserpo,svybcs orpspybibsvrsdrr strisjvspybosjvshyqdd
yqzbsqhaboebesqmqjo.

Jvspqhsorvsdromsqtvbisvybshjo jomsrtsvybsfrecsvyqvsqsaicspqhsybqiestiru
vybsGblnre’hsuqhv-ybqeh,sqoornoajomsvyqvsvybsKnomtiqnspqhsqmqjo
drpbijomsybisfrqvh;svyrnmysvybsrodcshgrnvsjoshjmyvspqhsvyqvsrtsq
Tjo-Fqa ,sfbdromjomsvrsvybshgbajbhsrtsnoaqgvniqfdbspyqdbh,sfbaqnhbsrt
jvhsjoaibejfdbsgrpbisrtshpjuujom.sObzbivybdbhh,svybsTjo-Fqa ’hshgrnvsjh
hrshjujdqisvrsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’h,svyqvsfcsnoh jdtndstjhybiubosjvsjh
rtvbosujhvq bostrisjv.sQoesarohblnbovdcsEbija sqoesqddsyjhsyrhvspbib
orpsjoszqdjqovsayqhbsrtsvyjhsnoobqiqfdbsfinvb.sVybsZjimjosairpejomsqdd
hqjd,suqebsqtvbisybistrniscrnoms bbdh,sqoesvynhsvybcsqddsejhqggbqibe
tqisvrsdbbpqie,shvjddsjosfrde,syrgbtndsayqhb.

Ry!suqocsqibsvybsTjo-Fqa h,sqoesuqocsqibsvybsEbija h,sucstijboe.


AYQGVBIs82.sVybsYrorisqoesMdricsrtsPyqdjom.

Vybibsqibshrubsbovbigijhbhsjospyjaysqsaqibtndsejhriebidjobhhsjhsvyb
vinbsubvyre.

VybsuribsJsejzbsjovrsvyjhsuqvvbisrtspyqdjom,sqoesgnhysucsibhbqiaybhsng
vrsvybszbicshgijom-ybqesrtsjvshrsunaysvybsuribsqusJsjugibhhbespjvysjvh
mibqvsyroriqfdbobhhsqoesqovjlnjvc;sqoesbhgbajqddcspybosJstjoeshrsuqoc
mibqvsebuj-mrehsqoesybirbh,sgirgybvhsrtsqddshrivh,spyrsrobspqcsrisrvybi
yqzbshybesejhvjoavjrosngrosjv,sJsqusviqohgrivbespjvysvybsibtdbavjro
vyqvsJsuchbdtsfbdrom,svyrnmysfnvshnfriejoqvbdc,svrshrsbufdqwrobesq
tiqvbiojvc.

VybsmqddqovsGbihbnh,sqshrosrtsKngjvbi,spqhsvybstjihvspyqdbuqo;sqoesvr
vybsbvbioqdsyrorisrtsrnisaqddjomsfbsjvshqje,svyqvsvybstjihvspyqdb
qvvqa besfcsrnisfirvybiyrrespqhsorvs jddbespjvysqocshriejesjovbov.
Vyrhbspbibsvybs ojmyvdcseqchsrtsrnisgirtbhhjro,spybospbsrodcsfribsqiuh
vrshnaarisvybsejhvibhhbe,sqoesorvsvrstjddsubo’hsdqug-tbbebih.sBzbicsrob
 orphsvybstjobshvricsrtsGbihbnhsqoesQoeirubeq;syrpsvybsdrzbdc
Qoeirubeq,svybseqnmyvbisrtsqs jom,spqhsvjbesvrsqsira srosvybshbq-arqhv,
qoesqhsDbzjqvyqospqhsjosvybszbicsqavsrtsaqiicjomsybisrtt,sGbihbnh,svyb
gijoabsrtspyqdbubo,sjovibgjedcsqezqoajom,syqigrrobesvybsurohvbi,sqoe
ebdjzbibesqoesuqiijbesvybsuqje.sJvspqhsqosqeujiqfdbsqivjhvjasbxgdrjv,
iqibdcsqayjbzbesfcsvybsfbhvsyqigrrobbihsrtsvybsgibhbovseqc;sjoqhunaysqh
vyjhsDbzjqvyqospqhshdqjosqvsvybszbicstjihvseqiv.sQoesdbvsorsuqosernfv
vyjhsQi jvbshvric;strisjosvybsqoajbovsKrggq,sorpsKqttq,srosvybsHcijqo
arqhv,sjosrobsrtsvybsGqmqosvbugdbh,svybibshvrrestrisuqocsqmbhsvybszqhv
h bdbvrosrtsqspyqdb,spyjaysvybsajvc’hsdbmboehsqoesqddsvybsjoyqfjvqovh
qhhbivbesvrsfbsvybsjebovjaqdsfrobhsrtsvybsurohvbisvyqvsGbihbnhshdbp.
PybosvybsIruqohsvrr sKrggq,svybshqubsh bdbvrospqhsaqiijbesvrsJvqdcsjo
vijnugy.sPyqvshbbuhsurhvshjomndqisqoeshnmmbhvjzbdcsjugrivqovsjosvyjh
hvric,sjhsvyjh:sjvspqhstirusKrggqsvyqvsKroqyshbvshqjd.

Q josvrsvybsqezbovnibsrtsGbihbnhsqoesQoeirubeq—joebbe,sfcshrubshnggrhbe
vrsfbsjoejibavdcsebijzbestirusjv—jhsvyqvstqurnhshvricsrtsHv.sMbrimbsqoe
vybsEiqmro;spyjayseiqmrosJsuqjovqjosvrsyqzbsfbbosqspyqdb;strisjosuqoc
rdesayirojadbhspyqdbhsqoeseiqmrohsqibshviqombdcsknufdbesvrmbvybi,sqoe
rtvboshvqoestrisbqaysrvybi.s“Vyrnsqivsqhsqsdjrosrtsvybspqvbih,sqoesqhsq
eiqmrosrtsvybshbq,”shqjvysBwb jbd;sybibfc,sgdqjodcsubqojomsqspyqdb;sjo
vinvy,shrubszbihjrohsrtsvybsFjfdbsnhbsvyqvspriesjvhbdt.sFbhjebh,sjv
prndesunayshnfviqavstirusvybsmdricsrtsvybsbxgdrjvsyqesHv.sMbrimbsfnv
boarnovbibesqsaiqpdjomsibgvjdbsrtsvybsdqoe,sjohvbqesrtserjomsfqvvdb
pjvysvybsmibqvsurohvbisrtsvybsebbg.sQocsuqosuqcs jddsqshoq b,sfnvsrodc
qsGbihbnh,sqsHv.sMbrimb,sqsArttjo,syqzbsvybsybqivsjosvybusvrsuqiay
frdedcsngsvrsqspyqdb.

Dbvsorvsvybsurebiosgqjovjomhsrtsvyjhshabobsujhdbqesnh;strisvyrnmysvyb
aibqvnibsboarnovbibesfcsvyqvszqdjqovspyqdbuqosrtsrdesjhszqmnbdc
ibgibhbovbesrtsqsmijttjo-dj bshyqgb,sqoesvyrnmysvybsfqvvdbsjhsebgjavbe
rosdqoesqoesvybshqjovsrosyrihbfqa ,scbvsarohjebijomsvybsmibqvsjmoriqoab
rtsvyrhbsvjubh,spybosvybsvinbstriusrtsvybspyqdbspqhsno orposvrsqivjhvh;
qoesarohjebijomsvyqvsqhsjosGbihbnh’saqhb,sHv.sMbrimb’hspyqdbsujmyvsyqzb
aiqpdbesngsrnvsrtsvybshbqsrosvybsfbqay;sqoesarohjebijomsvyqvsvybsqojuqd
ijeebosfcsHv.sMbrimbsujmyvsyqzbsfbbosrodcsqsdqimbshbqd,srishbq-yrihb;
fbqijomsqddsvyjhsjosujoe,sjvspjddsorvsqggbqisqdvrmbvybisjoarugqvjfdb
pjvysvybshqaibesdbmboesqoesvybsqoajbovbhvseiqnmyvhsrtsvybshabob,svr
yrdesvyjhshr-aqddbeseiqmrosorsrvybisvyqosvybsmibqvsDbzjqvyqosyjuhbdt.
Jostqav,sgdqabesfbtribsvybshvijavsqoesgjbiajomsvinvy,svyjhspyrdbshvric
pjddstqibsdj bsvyqvstjhy,stdbhy,sqoestrpdsjerdsrtsvybsGyjdjhvjobh,
Eqmrosfcsoqub;spyrsfbjomsgdqovbesfbtribsvybsqi srtsJhiqbd,syjhsyrihb’h
ybqesqoesfrvysvybsgqduhsrtsyjhsyqoehstbddsrttstirusyju,sqoesrodcsvyb
hvnugsristjhycsgqivsrtsyjusibuqjobe.sVynh,svybo,srobsrtsrnisrposorfdb
hvqug,sbzbosqspyqdbuqo,sjhsvybsvnvbdqicsmnqiejqosrtsBomdqoe;sqoesfc
mrresijmyvh,spbsyqigrrobbihsrtsOqovna bvshyrndesfbsboirddbesjosvybsurhv
orfdbsriebisrtsHv.sMbrimb.sQoesvybibtrib,sdbvsorvsvybs ojmyvhsrtsvyqv
yroriqfdbsarugqocs(orobsrtspyru,sJszbovnibsvrshqc,syqzbsbzbisyqesvrser
pjvysqspyqdbsdj bsvybjismibqvsgqviro),sdbvsvybusobzbisbcbsqsOqovna bvbi
pjvysejheqjo,shjoabsbzbosjosrnisprrddbostira hsqoesvqiibesvirphbihspb
qibsunaysfbvvbisbovjvdbesvrsHv.sMbrimb’hsebariqvjrosvyqosvybc.

PybvybisvrsqeujvsYbiandbhsquromsnhsrisorv,saroabiojomsvyjhsJsdrom
ibuqjobesenfjrnh:strisvyrnmysqaariejomsvrsvybsMibb sucvyrdrmjbh,svyqv
qovjlnbsAira bvvsqoes jvsAqihro—vyqvsfiqpocserbisrtsibkrjajomsmrre
ebbeh,spqhshpqddrpbeserposqoesvyirposngsfcsqspyqdb;shvjdd,spybvybisvyqv
hvijavdcsuq bhsqspyqdbuqosrtsyju,svyqvsujmyvsfbsurrvbe.sJvsorpybib
qggbqihsvyqvsybsbzbisqavnqddcsyqigrrobesyjhstjhy,snodbhh,sjoebbe,stiru
vybsjohjeb.sObzbivybdbhh,sybsuqcsfbsebbubesqshrivsrtsjozrdnovqic
pyqdbuqo;sqvsqocsiqvbsvybspyqdbsaqnmyvsyju,sjtsybsejesorvsvybspyqdb.sJ
adqjusyjustrisrobsrtsrnisadqo.

Fnv,sfcsvybsfbhvsaroviqejavricsqnvyrijvjbh,svyjhsMibajqoshvricsrt
Ybiandbhsqoesvybspyqdbsjhsarohjebibesvrsfbsebijzbestirusvybshvjddsurib
qoajbovsYbfibpshvricsrtsKroqysqoesvybspyqdb;sqoeszjabszbihâ;sabivqjodc
vybcsqibszbicshjujdqi.sJtsJsadqjusvybsebuj-mresvybo,spycsorvsvyb
girgybv?

Orisersybirbh,shqjovh,sebujmreh,sqoesgirgybvhsqdrobsarugijhbsvybspyrdb
irddsrtsrnisriebi.sRnismiqoesuqhvbisjhshvjddsvrsfbsoqube;strisdj b
ircqds jomhsrtsrdesvjubh,spbstjoesvybsybqespqvbihsrtsrnistiqvbiojvcsjo
orvyjomshyrivsrtsvybsmibqvsmrehsvybuhbdzbh.sVyqvsproeirnhsrijbovqd
hvricsjhsorpsvrsfbsibybqihbestirusvybsHyqhvbi,spyjaysmjzbhsnhsvybseibqe
Zjhyorr,srobsrtsvybsvyibbsgbihrohsjosvybsmreybqesrtsvybsYjoerrh;smjzbh
nhsvyjhsejzjobsZjhyorrsyjuhbdtstrisrnisDrie;—Zjhyorr,spyr,sfcsvybstjihv
rtsyjhsvbosbqivydcsjoaqioqvjroh,syqhstrisbzbishbvsqgqivsqoeshqoavjtjbe
vybspyqdb.sPybosFiqyuq,srisvybsMresrtsMreh,shqjvysvybsHyqhvbi,sibhrdzbe
vrsibaibqvbsvybspridesqtvbisrobsrtsjvhsgbijrejaqdsejhhrdnvjroh,sybsmqzb
fjivysvrsZjhyorr,svrsgibhjebsrzbisvybspri ;sfnvsvybsZbeqh,srisuchvjaqd
frr h,spyrhbsgbinhqdsprndeshbbusvrsyqzbsfbbosjoejhgbohqfdbsvrsZjhyorr
fbtribsfbmjoojomsvybsaibqvjro,sqoespyjaysvybibtribsunhvsyqzbsarovqjobe
hrubvyjomsjosvybshyqgbsrtsgiqavjaqdsyjovhsvrscrnomsqiayjvbavh,svybhb
Zbeqhspbibsdcjomsqvsvybsfrvvrusrtsvybspqvbih;shrsZjhyorrsfbaqub
joaqioqvbsjosqspyqdb,sqoeshrnoejomserposjosyjusvrsvybsnvvbiurhvsebgvyh,
ibhanbesvybshqaibeszrdnubh.sPqhsorvsvyjhsZjhyorrsqspyqdbuqo,svybo?sbzbo
qhsqsuqospyrsijebhsqsyrihbsjhsaqddbesqsyrihbuqo?

Gbihbnh,sHv.sMbrimb,sYbiandbh,sKroqy,sqoesZjhyorr!svybib’hsq
ubufbi-irddstriscrn!sPyqvsadnfsfnvsvybspyqdbuqo’hsaqosybqesrttsdj b
vyqv?


AYQGVBIs83.sKroqysYjhvrijaqddcsIbmqiebe.

IbtbiboabspqhsuqebsvrsvybsyjhvrijaqdshvricsrtsKroqysqoesvybspyqdbsjo
vybsgibabejomsayqgvbi.sOrpshrubsOqovna bvbihsiqvybisejhvinhvsvyjh
yjhvrijaqdshvricsrtsKroqysqoesvybspyqdb.sFnvsvybosvybibspbibshrub
habgvjaqdsMibb hsqoesIruqoh,spyr,shvqoejomsrnvstirusvybsrivyrerxsgqmqoh
rtsvybjisvjubh,sblnqddcsernfvbesvybshvricsrtsYbiandbhsqoesvybspyqdb,
qoesQijrosqoesvybserdgyjo;sqoescbvsvybjisernfvjomsvyrhbsviqejvjrohseje
orvsuq bsvyrhbsviqejvjrohsrobspyjvsvybsdbhhstqavh,strisqddsvyqv.

RobsrdesHqm-Yqifrispyqdbuqo’hsayjbtsibqhrostrislnbhvjrojomsvybsYbfibp
hvricspqhsvyjh:—Ybsyqesrobsrtsvyrhbslnqjovsrde-tqhyjrobesFjfdbh,
bufbddjhybespjvysanijrnh,snohajbovjtjasgdqvbh;srobsrtspyjaysibgibhbovbe
Kroqy’hspyqdbspjvysvprshgrnvhsjosyjhsybqe—qsgbandjqijvcsrodcsvinbspjvy
ibhgbavsvrsqshgbajbhsrtsvybsDbzjqvyqos(vybsIjmyvsPyqdb,sqoesvyb
zqijbvjbhsrtsvyqvsriebi),saroabiojomspyjaysvybstjhybiubosyqzbsvyjh
hqcjom,s“Qsgboocsirddsprndesayr bsyju”;syjhshpqddrpsjhshrszbicshuqdd.
Fnv,svrsvyjh,sFjhyrgsKbff’hsqovjajgqvjzbsqohpbisjhsibqec.sJvsjhsorv
obabhhqic,syjovhsvybsFjhyrg,svyqvspbsarohjebisKroqysqhsvrufbesjosvyb
pyqdb’hsfbddc,sfnvsqhsvbugriqijdcsdrembesjoshrubsgqivsrtsyjhsurnvy.sQoe
vyjhshbbuhsibqhroqfdbsbornmysjosvybsmrresFjhyrg.sTrisvindc,svybsIjmyv
Pyqdb’hsurnvysprndesqaaruureqvbsqsarngdbsrtspyjhv-vqfdbh,sqoe
arutrivqfdcshbqvsqddsvybsgdqcbih.sGrhhjfdc,svrr,sKroqysujmyvsyqzb
boharoabesyjuhbdtsjosqsyrddrpsvrrvy;sfnv,sroshbaroesvyrnmyvh,svybsIjmyv
Pyqdbsjhsvrrvydbhh.

QorvybisibqhrospyjaysHqm-Yqifris(ybspbovsfcsvyqvsoqub)snimbestrisyjh
pqovsrtstqjvysjosvyjhsuqvvbisrtsvybsgirgybv,spqhshrubvyjomsrfhanibdcsjo
ibtbiboabsvrsyjhsjoaqiabiqvbesfrecsqoesvybspyqdb’hsmqhvijasknjabh.sFnv
vyjhsrfkbavjrosdj bpjhbstqddhsvrsvybsmirnoe,sfbaqnhbsqsMbiuqosbxbmbvjhv
hnggrhbhsvyqvsKroqysunhvsyqzbsvq bosibtnmbsjosvybstdrqvjomsfrecsrtsq
_ebqe_spyqdb—bzbosqhsvybsTiboayshrdejbihsjosvybsInhhjqosaqugqjmosvniobe
vybjisebqesyrihbhsjovrsvbovh,sqoesaiqpdbesjovrsvybu.sFbhjebh,sjvsyqh
fbbosejzjobesfcsrvybisarovjobovqdsaruubovqvrih,svyqvspybosKroqyspqh
vyirposrzbifrqiestirusvybsKrggqshyjg,sybshviqjmyvpqcsbttbavbesyjh
bhaqgbsvrsqorvybiszbhhbdsobqisfc,shrubszbhhbdspjvysqspyqdbstrisq
tjmnib-ybqe;sqoe,sJsprndesqee,sgrhhjfdcsaqddbes“VybsPyqdb,”sqhshrub
aiqtvsqibsorpqeqchsayijhvbobesvybs“Hyqi ,”svybs“Mndd,”svybs“Bqmdb.”sOri
yqzbsvybibsfbbospqovjomsdbqiobesbxbmbvjhvhspyrsyqzbsrgjobesvyqvsvyb
pyqdbsubovjrobesjosvybsfrr srtsKroqysubibdcsubqovsqsdjtb-gibhbizbi—qo
jotdqvbesfqmsrtspjoe—pyjaysvybsboeqombibesgirgybvshpqusvr,sqoeshrspqh
hqzbestirusqspqvbicserru.sGrrisHqm-Yqifri,svybibtrib,shbbuhsprihvbesqdd
irnoe.sFnvsybsyqeshvjddsqorvybisibqhrostrisyjhspqovsrtstqjvy.sJvspqh
vyjh,sjtsJsibubufbisijmyv:sKroqyspqhshpqddrpbesfcsvybspyqdbsjosvyb
UbejvbiiqobqosHbq,sqoesqtvbisvyibbseqchsybspqhszrujvbesngshrubpybib
pjvyjosvyibbseqch’skrniobcsrtsOjobzby,sqsajvcsrosvybsVjmijh,szbicsunay
uribsvyqosvyibbseqch’skrniobcsqairhhstirusvybsobqibhvsgrjovsrtsvyb
Ubejvbiiqobqosarqhv.sYrpsjhsvyqv?

Fnvspqhsvybibsorsrvybispqcstrisvybspyqdbsvrsdqoesvybsgirgybvspjvyjo
vyqvshyrivsejhvqoabsrtsOjobzby?sCbh.sYbsujmyvsyqzbsaqiijbesyjusirnoesfc
vybspqcsrtsvybsAqgbsrtsMrresYrgb.sFnvsorvsvrshgbq srtsvybsgqhhqmb
vyirnmysvybspyrdbsdbomvysrtsvybsUbejvbiiqobqo,sqoesqorvybisgqhhqmbsng
vybsGbihjqosMndtsqoesIbesHbq,shnaysqshnggrhjvjrosprndesjozrdzbsvyb
arugdbvbsajianuoqzjmqvjrosrtsqddsQtijaqsjosvyibbseqch,sorvsvrshgbq srt
vybsVjmijhspqvbih,sobqisvybshjvbsrtsOjobzby,sfbjomsvrrshyqddrpstrisqoc
pyqdbsvrshpjusjo.sFbhjebh,svyjhsjebqsrtsKroqy’hspbqvybijomsvybsAqgbsrt
MrresYrgbsqvshrsbqidcsqseqcsprndespibhvsvybsyrorisrtsvybsejharzbicsrt
vyqvsmibqvsybqedqoestirusFqivyrdrubpsEjqw,sjvhsibgnvbesejharzbibi,sqoe
hrsuq bsurebiosyjhvricsqsdjqi.

FnvsqddsvybhbstrrdjhysqimnubovhsrtsrdesHqm-Yqifrisrodcsbzjoabesyjh
trrdjhysgijebsrtsibqhro—qsvyjomshvjddsuribsibgibybohjfdbsjosyju,shbbjom
vyqvsybsyqesfnvsdjvvdbsdbqiojomsbxabgvspyqvsybsyqesgja besngstirusvyb
hnosqoesvybshbq.sJshqcsjvsrodcshyrphsyjhstrrdjhy,sjugjrnhsgijeb,sqoe
qfrujoqfdb,sebzjdjhysibfbddjrosqmqjohvsvybsibzbiboesadbimc.sTrisfcsq
GrivnmnbhbsAqvyrdjasgijbhv,svyjhszbicsjebqsrtsKroqy’hsmrjomsvrsOjobzby
zjqsvybsAqgbsrtsMrresYrgbspqhsqezqoabesqhsqshjmoqdsuqmojtjaqvjrosrtsvyb
mbobiqdsujiqadb.sQoeshrsjvspqh.sFbhjebh,svrsvyjhseqc,svybsyjmydc
bodjmyvbobesVni hsebzrnvdcsfbdjbzbsjosvybsyjhvrijaqdshvricsrtsKroqy.
Qoeshrubsvyibbsabovnijbhsqmr,sqosBomdjhysviqzbddbisjosrdesYqiijh’h
Zrcqmbh,shgbq hsrtsqsVni jhysUrhlnbsfnjdvsjosyrorisrtsKroqy,sjospyjay
Urhlnbspqhsqsujiqandrnhsdqugsvyqvsfniovspjvyrnvsqocsrjd.


AYQGVBIs84.sGjvaygrdjom.

Vrsuq bsvybusinosbqhjdcsqoeshpjtvdc,svybsqxdbhsrtsaqiijqmbhsqib
qorjovbe;sqoestrisunaysvybshqubsgnigrhb,shrubspyqdbihsgbitriusqo
qoqdrmrnhsrgbiqvjrosngrosvybjisfrqv;svybcsmibqhbsvybsfrvvru.sOrisjhsjv
vrsfbsernfvbesvyqvsqhshnaysqsgirabenibsaqosersorsyqiu,sjvsuqcsgrhhjfdc
fbsrtsorsarovbugvjfdbsqezqovqmb;sarohjebijomsvyqvsrjdsqoespqvbisqib
yrhvjdb;svyqvsrjdsjhsqshdjejomsvyjom,sqoesvyqvsvybsrfkbavsjoszjbpsjhsvr
uq bsvybsfrqvshdjebsfiqzbdc.sLnbblnbmsfbdjbzbeshviromdcsjosqorjovjom
yjhsfrqv,sqoesrobsuriojomsorvsdromsqtvbisvybsMbiuqoshyjgsKnomtiqn
ejhqggbqibe,svrr suribsvyqosanhvruqicsgqjohsjosvyqvsraangqvjro;
aiqpdjomsnoebisjvhsfrvvru,spybibsjvsynomsrzbisvybshjeb,sqoesinffjomsjo
vybsnoavnrnhobhhsqhsvyrnmysejdjmbovdcshbb jomsvrsjohnibsqsairgsrtsyqji
tirusvybsaiqtv’hsfqdes bbd.sYbshbbubesvrsfbspri jomsjosrfbejboabsvr
hrubsgqivjandqisgibhbovjubov.sOrisejesjvsibuqjosnopqiiqovbesfcsvyb
bzbov.

Vrpqiehsorrospyqdbhspbibsiqjhbe;sfnvshrshrrosqhsvybshyjgshqjdbeserposvr
vybu,svybcsvniobesqoestdbespjvyshpjtvsgibajgjvqoac;sqsejhriebibe
tdjmyv,sqhsrtsAdbrgqviq’hsfqimbhstirusQavjnu.

Obzbivybdbhh,svybsfrqvhsgnihnbe,sqoesHvnff’hspqhstriburhv.sFcsmibqv
bxbivjro,sVqhyvbmrsqvsdqhvshnaabbebesjosgdqovjomsrobsjiro;sfnvsvyb
hvija bospyqdb,spjvyrnvsqvsqddshrnoejom,shvjddsarovjonbesyjhsyrijwrovqd
tdjmyv,spjvysqeebestdbbvobhh.sHnaysnojovbiujvvbeshviqjojomhsngrosvyb
gdqovbesjirosunhvshrrobisrisdqvbisjobzjvqfdcsbxviqavsjv.sJvsfbaqub
jugbiqvjzbsvrsdqoabsvybstdcjomspyqdb,srisfbsarovbovsvrsdrhbsyju.sFnvsvr
yqndsvybsfrqvsngsvrsyjhstdqo spqhsjugrhhjfdb,sybshpqushrstqhvsqoe
tnijrnh.sPyqvsvybosibuqjobe?

Rtsqddsvybsproeirnhsebzjabhsqoesebxvbijvjbh,svybshdbjmyvhsrtsyqoesqoe
arnovdbhhshnfvdbvjbh,svrspyjaysvybszbvbiqospyqdbuqosjhshrsrtvbostriabe,
orobsbxabbesvyqvstjobsuqoœnzibspjvysvybsdqoabsaqddbesgjvaygrdjom.sHuqdd
hprie,srisfirqeshprie,sjosqddsjvhsbxbiajhbhsfrqhvhsorvyjomsdj bsjv.sJv
jhsrodcsjoejhgbohqfdbspjvysqosjozbvbiqvbsinoojomspyqdb;sjvhsmiqoestqav
qoestbqvnibsjhsvybsproebitndsejhvqoabsvrspyjaysvybsdromsdqoabsjh
qaaniqvbdcseqivbestirusqszjrdbovdcsira jom,skbi jomsfrqv,snoebisbxvibub
ybqepqc.sHvbbdsqoesprresjoadnebe,svybsbovjibshgbqisjhshrubsvbosri
vpbdzbstbbvsjosdbomvy;svybshvqttsjhsunayshdjmyvbisvyqosvyqvsrtsvyb
yqigrro,sqoesqdhrsrtsqsdjmyvbisuqvbijqd—gjob.sJvsjhstniojhybespjvysq
huqddsirgbsaqddbesqspqig,srtsarohjebiqfdbsdbomvy,sfcspyjaysjvsaqosfb
yqndbesfqa svrsvybsyqoesqtvbiseqivjom.

Fnvsfbtribsmrjomstnivybi,sjvsjhsjugrivqovsvrsubovjrosybib,svyqvsvyrnmy
vybsyqigrrosuqcsfbsgjvaygrdbesjosvybshqubspqcspjvysvybsdqoab,scbvsjvsjh
hbderuserob;sqoespyboserob,sjhshvjddsdbhhstiblnbovdcshnaabhhtnd,sro
qaarnovsrtsvybsmibqvbispbjmyvsqoesjotbijrisdbomvysrtsvybsyqigrrosqh
arugqibespjvysvybsdqoab,spyjaysjosbttbavsfbarubshbijrnhseiqpfqa h.sQhsq
mbobiqdsvyjom,svybibtrib,scrnsunhvstjihvsmbvstqhvsvrsqspyqdb,sfbtrib
qocsgjvaygrdjomsarubhsjovrsgdqc.

Drr sorpsqvsHvnff;sqsuqospyrstirusyjhsynurirnh,sebdjfbiqvbsarrdobhhsqoe
blnqojujvcsjosvybsejibhvsbubimboajbh,spqhshgbajqddcslnqdjtjbesvrsbxabd
josgjvaygrdjom.sDrr sqvsyju;sybshvqoehsngijmyvsjosvybsvrhhbesfrpsrtsvyb
tdcjomsfrqv;spiqgvsjostdbbacstrqu,svybsvrpjomspyqdbsjhstrivcstbbv
qybqe.sYqoedjomsvybsdromsdqoabsdjmyvdc,smdqoajomsvpjabsrisvyijabsqdrom
jvhsdbomvysvrshbbsjtsjvsfbsbxqavdcshviqjmyv,sHvnffspyjhvdjomdcsmqvybih
ngsvybsarjdsrtsvybspqigsjosrobsyqoe,shrsqhsvrshbanibsjvhstibbsboesjo
yjhsmiqhg,sdbqzjomsvybsibhvsnorfhvinavbe.sVybosyrdejomsvybsdqoabstndd
fbtribsyjhspqjhvfqoe’hsujeedb,sybsdbzbdhsjvsqvsvybspyqdb;spybo,
arzbijomsyjuspjvysjv,sybshvbqejdcsebgibhhbhsvybsfnvv-boesjosyjhsyqoe,
vybibfcsbdbzqvjomsvybsgrjovsvjddsvybspbqgroshvqoehstqjidcsfqdqoabesngro
yjhsgqdu,stjtvbbostbbvsjosvybsqji.sYbsujoehscrnshrubpyqvsrtsqsknmmdbi,
fqdqoajomsqsdromshvqttsrosyjhsayjo.sObxvsurubovspjvysqsiqgje,soqubdbhh
jugndhb,sjosqshngbifsdrtvcsqiaysvybsfijmyvshvbbdshgqohsvybstrqujom
ejhvqoab,sqoeslnjzbihsjosvybsdjtbshgrvsrtsvybspyqdb.sJohvbqesrt
hgqi djomspqvbi,sybsorpshgrnvhsibesfdrre.

“Vyqvseirzbsvybshgjmrvsrnvsrtsyju!”saijbesHvnff.s“’VjhsKndc’hsjuurivqd
Trnivy;sqddstrnovqjohsunhvsinospjobsvreqc!sPrndesorp,sjvspbibsrde
Ridbqohspyjh bc,srisrdesRyjr,srisnohgbq qfdbsrdesUroromqybdq!sVybo,
Vqhyvbmr,sdqe,sJ’esyqzbscbsyrdesqsaqoq josvrsvybskbv,sqoespb’eseijo 
irnoesjv!sCbq,szbijdc,sybqivhsqdjzb,spb’esfibpsayrjabsgnoaysjosvyb
hgibqesrtsyjhshgrnv-yrdbsvybib,sqoestirusvyqvsdjzbsgnoay-frpdslnqttsvyb
djzjomshvntt.”

Qmqjosqoesqmqjosvrshnaysmqubhrubsvqd ,svybsebxvbirnhseqivsjhsibgbqvbe,
vybshgbqisibvniojomsvrsjvhsuqhvbisdj bsqsmibcyrnoesybdesjosh jdtnd
dbqhy.sVybsqmrojwbespyqdbsmrbhsjovrsyjhstdniic;svybsvrp-djobsjh
hdqa bobe,sqoesvybsgjvaygrdbiseirggjomsqhvbio,strdehsyjhsyqoeh,sqoe
unvbdcspqvaybhsvybsurohvbisejb.


AYQGVBIs85.sVybsTrnovqjo.

Vyqvstrishjxsvyrnhqoescbqih—qoesorsrobs orphsyrpsuqocsujddjrohsrtsqmbh
fbtrib—vybsmibqvspyqdbhshyrndesyqzbsfbboshgrnvjomsqddsrzbisvybshbq,sqoe
hgijo djomsqoesujhvjtcjomsvybsmqiebohsrtsvybsebbg,sqhspjvyshrsuqoc
hgijo djomsrisujhvjtcjomsgrvh;sqoesvyqvstrishrubsabovnijbhsfqa ,
vyrnhqoehsrtsynovbihshyrndesyqzbsfbbosadrhbsfcsvybstrnovqjosrtsvyb
pyqdb,spqvayjomsvybhbshgijo djomhsqoeshgrnvjomh—vyqvsqddsvyjhshyrnde
fb,sqoescbv,svyqvserposvrsvyjhsfdbhhbesujonvbs(tjtvbbosqoesqslnqivbi
ujonvbhsgqhvsrobsr’adra sG.U.srtsvyjhshjxvbbovyseqcsrtsEbabufbi,sQ.E.
1851),sjvshyrndeshvjddsibuqjosqsgirfdbu,spybvybisvybhbshgrnvjomhsqib,
qtvbisqdd,sibqddcspqvbi,srisorvyjomsfnvszqgri—vyjhsjhshnibdcsq
orvbprivycsvyjom.

Dbvsnh,svybo,sdrr sqvsvyjhsuqvvbi,sqdromspjvyshrubsjovbibhvjomsjvbuh
arovjombov.sBzbicsrobs orphsvyqvsfcsvybsgbandjqisanoojomsrtsvybji
mjddh,svybstjoocsvijfbhsjosmbobiqdsfibqvybsvybsqjispyjaysqvsqddsvjubh
jhsarufjobespjvysvybsbdbubovsjospyjaysvybcshpju;syboab,sqsybiijomsrisq
aresujmyvsdjzbsqsabovnic,sqoesobzbisroabsiqjhbsjvhsybqesqfrzbsvyb
hnitqab.sFnvsrpjomsvrsyjhsuqi besjovbioqdshvinavnibspyjaysmjzbhsyju
ibmndqisdnomh,sdj bsqsynuqosfbjom’h,svybspyqdbsaqosrodcsdjzbsfc
joyqdjomsvybsejhbomqmbesqjisjosvybsrgbosqvurhgybib.sPybibtribsvyb
obabhhjvcstrisyjhsgbijrejaqdszjhjvhsvrsvybsnggbispride.sFnvsybsaqoorv
josqocsebmibbsfibqvybsvyirnmysyjhsurnvy,stri,sjosyjhsriejoqicsqvvjvneb,
vybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsurnvysjhsfnijbesqvsdbqhvsbjmyvstbbvsfbobqvysvyb
hnitqab;sqoespyqvsjhshvjddsurib,syjhspjoegjgbsyqhsorsaroobxjrospjvysyjh
urnvy.sOr,sybsfibqvybhsvyirnmysyjhshgjiqadbsqdrob;sqoesvyjhsjhsrosvyb
vrgsrtsyjhsybqe.

JtsJshqc,svyqvsjosqocsaibqvnibsfibqvyjomsjhsrodcsqstnoavjro
joejhgbohqfdbsvrszjvqdjvc,sjoqhunaysqhsjvspjvyeiqphstirusvybsqjisq
abivqjosbdbubov,spyjaysfbjomshnfhblnbovdcsfirnmyvsjovrsarovqavspjvysvyb
fdrresjugqivhsvrsvybsfdrresjvhszjzjtcjomsgijoajgdb,sJsersorvsvyjo sJ
hyqddsbii;svyrnmysJsuqcsgrhhjfdcsnhbshrubshngbitdnrnhshajbovjtjasprieh.
Qhhnubsjv,sqoesjvstrddrphsvyqvsjtsqddsvybsfdrresjosqsuqosarndesfb
qbiqvbespjvysrobsfibqvy,sybsujmyvsvyboshbqdsngsyjhsorhvijdhsqoesorv
tbvaysqorvybistrisqsarohjebiqfdbsvjub.sVyqvsjhsvrshqc,sybsprndesvybo
djzbspjvyrnvsfibqvyjom.sQoruqdrnhsqhsjvsuqcshbbu,svyjhsjhsgibajhbdcsvyb
aqhbspjvysvybspyqdb,spyrshchvbuqvjaqddcsdjzbh,sfcsjovbizqdh,syjhstndd
yrnisqoesuribs(pybosqvsvybsfrvvru)spjvyrnvseiqpjomsqshjomdbsfibqvy,sri
hrsunaysqhsjosqocspqcsjoyqdjomsqsgqivjadbsrtsqji;stri,sibubufbi,sybsyqh
orsmjddh.sYrpsjhsvyjh?sFbvpbbosyjhsijfhsqoesrosbqayshjebsrtsyjhshgjob
ybsjhshnggdjbespjvysqsibuqi qfdbsjozrdzbesAibvqosdqfcijovysrt
zbiujabddj-dj bszbhhbdh,spyjayszbhhbdh,spybosybslnjvhsvybshnitqab,sqib
arugdbvbdcsejhvboebespjvysrxcmboqvbesfdrre.sHrsvyqvstrisqosyrnisri
urib,sqsvyrnhqoestqvyruhsjosvybshbq,sybsaqiijbhsqshnigdnhshvra srt
zjvqdjvcsjosyju,sknhvsqhsvybsaqubdsairhhjomsvybspqvbidbhhsebhbiv
aqiijbhsqshnigdnhshnggdcsrtseijo stristnvnibsnhbsjosjvhstrni
hnggdbubovqicshvruqayh.sVybsqoqvrujaqdstqavsrtsvyjhsdqfcijovysjh
joejhgnvqfdb;sqoesvyqvsvybshnggrhjvjrostrnoebesngrosjvsjhsibqhroqfdb
qoesvinb,shbbuhsvybsuribsarmbovsvrsub,spybosJsarohjebisvybsrvybipjhb
jobxgdjaqfdbsrfhvjoqacsrtsvyqvsdbzjqvyqosjos_yqzjomsyjhshgrnvjomhsrnv_,
qhsvybstjhybiubosgyiqhbsjv.sVyjhsjhspyqvsJsubqo.sJtsnourdbhvbe,sngro
ijhjomsvrsvybshnitqab,svybsHgbiusPyqdbspjddsarovjonbsvybibstrisqsgbijre
rtsvjubsbxqavdcsnojtriuspjvysqddsyjhsrvybisnourdbhvbesijhjomh.sHqcsyb
hvqchsbdbzbosujonvbh,sqoeskbvhshbzbovcsvjubh,svyqvsjh,sibhgjibhshbzbovc
fibqvyh;svybospybobzbisybsijhbhsqmqjo,sybspjddsfbshnibsvrsyqzbsyjh
hbzbovcsfibqvyhsrzbisqmqjo,svrsqsujonvb.sOrp,sjtsqtvbisybstbvaybhsqstbp
fibqvyhscrnsqdqiusyju,shrsvyqvsybshrnoeh,sybspjddsfbsqdpqchseremjomsng
qmqjosvrsuq bsmrresyjhsibmndqisqddrpqoabsrtsqji.sQoesorvsvjddsvyrhb
hbzbovcsfibqvyhsqibsvrde,spjddsybstjoqddcsmrserposvrshvqcsrnvsyjhstndd
vbiusfbdrp.sIbuqi ,syrpbzbi,svyqvsjosejttbibovsjoejzjenqdhsvybhbsiqvbh
qibsejttbibov;sfnvsjosqocsrobsvybcsqibsqdj b.sOrp,spycshyrndesvybspyqdb
vynhsjohjhvsngrosyqzjomsyjhshgrnvjomhsrnv,snodbhhsjvsfbsvrsibgdbojhy
yjhsibhbizrjisrtsqji,sbibsebhaboejomstrismrre?sYrpsrfzjrnhsjhsjv,svrr,
vyqvsvyjhsobabhhjvcstrisvybspyqdb’hsijhjomsbxgrhbhsyjusvrsqddsvybstqvqd
yqwqiehsrtsvybsayqhb.sTrisorvsfcsyrr srisfcsobvsarndesvyjhszqhv
dbzjqvyqosfbsaqnmyv,spyboshqjdjomsqsvyrnhqoestqvyruhsfbobqvysvyb
hnodjmyv.sOrvshrsunaysvycsh jdd,svybo,sRsynovbi,sqhsvybsmibqv
obabhhjvjbhsvyqvshvij bsvybszjavricsvrsvybb!

Josuqo,sfibqvyjomsjhsjoabhhqovdcsmrjomsro—robsfibqvysrodcshbizjomstri
vprsrisvyibbsgndhqvjroh;shrsvyqvspyqvbzbisrvybisfnhjobhhsybsyqhsvr
qvvboesvr,spq jomsrishdbbgjom,sfibqvybsybsunhv,srisejbsybspjdd.sFnvsvyb
HgbiusPyqdbsrodcsfibqvybhsqfrnvsrobshbzbovysrisHnoeqcsrtsyjhsvjub.

Jvsyqhsfbboshqjesvyqvsvybspyqdbsrodcsfibqvybhsvyirnmysyjhshgrnv-yrdb;
jtsjvsarndesvinvytnddcsfbsqeebesvyqvsyjhshgrnvhsqibsujxbespjvyspqvbi,
vybosJsrgjobspbshyrndesfbstniojhybespjvysvybsibqhrospycsyjhshbohbsrt
hubddshbbuhsrfdjvbiqvbesjosyju;strisvybsrodcsvyjomsqfrnvsyjusvyqvsqv
qddsqohpbihsvrsyjhsorhbsjhsvyqvsjebovjaqdshgrnv-yrdb;sqoesfbjomshr
adrmmbespjvysvprsbdbubovh,sjvsarndesorvsfbsbxgbavbesvrsyqzbsvybsgrpbi
rtshubddjom.sFnvsrpjomsvrsvybsuchvbicsrtsvybshgrnv—pybvybisjvsfbspqvbi
rispybvybisjvsfbszqgri—orsqfhrdnvbsabivqjovcsaqosqhscbvsfbsqiijzbesqv
rosvyjhsybqe.sHnibsjvsjh,sobzbivybdbhh,svyqvsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsyqhsor
girgbisrdtqavrijbh.sFnvspyqvserbhsybspqovsrtsvybu?sOrsirhbh,sor
zjrdbvh,sorsArdrmob-pqvbisjosvybshbq.

Tnivybiurib,sqhsyjhspjoegjgbshrdbdcsrgbohsjovrsvybsvnfbsrtsyjhshgrnvjom
aqoqd,sqoesqhsvyqvsdromsaqoqd—dj bsvybsmiqoesBijbsAqoqd—jhstniojhybe
pjvysqshrivsrtsdra hs(vyqvsrgbosqoeshynv)strisvybserpopqiesibvbovjrosrt
qjisrisvybsngpqiesbxadnhjrosrtspqvbi,svybibtribsvybspyqdbsyqhsorszrjab;
nodbhhscrnsjohndvsyjusfcshqcjom,svyqvspybosybshrshviqombdcsinufdbh,syb
vqd hsvyirnmysyjhsorhb.sFnvsvybosqmqjo,spyqvsyqhsvybspyqdbsvrshqc?
HbderusyqzbsJs orposqocsgirtrnoesfbjomsvyqvsyqesqocvyjomsvrshqcsvrsvyjh
pride,snodbhhstriabesvrshvquubisrnvshrubvyjomsfcspqcsrtsmbvvjomsq
djzjom.sRy!syqggcsvyqvsvybspridesjhshnaysqosbxabddbovsdjhvbobi!

Orp,svybshgrnvjomsaqoqdsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,sayjbtdcsjovboebesqhsjvsjh
trisvybsarozbcqoabsrtsqji,sqoestrishbzbiqdstbbvsdqjesqdrom,
yrijwrovqddc,sknhvsfbobqvysvybsnggbishnitqabsrtsyjhsybqe,sqoesqsdjvvdb
vrsrobshjeb;svyjhsanijrnhsaqoqdsjhszbicsunaysdj bsqsmqh-gjgbsdqjeserpo
josqsajvcsrosrobshjebsrtsqshvibbv.sFnvsvybslnbhvjrosibvniohspybvybi
vyjhsmqh-gjgbsjhsqdhrsqspqvbi-gjgb;sjosrvybisprieh,spybvybisvybshgrnv
rtsvybsHgbiusPyqdbsjhsvybsubibszqgrisrtsvybsbxyqdbesfibqvy,srispybvybi
vyqvsbxyqdbesfibqvysjhsujxbespjvyspqvbisvq bosjosqvsvybsurnvy,sqoe
ejhayqimbesvyirnmysvybshgjiqadb.sJvsjhsabivqjosvyqvsvybsurnvy
joejibavdcsaruunojaqvbhspjvysvybshgrnvjomsaqoqd;sfnvsjvsaqoorvsfb
girzbesvyqvsvyjhsjhstrisvybsgnigrhbsrtsejhayqimjomspqvbisvyirnmysvyb
hgjiqadb.sFbaqnhbsvybsmibqvbhvsobabhhjvcstrishrserjomsprndeshbbusvrsfb,
pybosjostbbejomsybsqaajebovqddcsvq bhsjospqvbi.sFnvsvybsHgbiusPyqdb’h
trresjhstqisfbobqvysvybshnitqab,sqoesvybibsybsaqoorvshgrnvsbzbosjtsyb
prnde.sFbhjebh,sjtscrnsibmqiesyjuszbicsadrhbdc,sqoesvjubsyjuspjvyscrni
pqvay,scrnspjddstjoesvyqvspybosnourdbhvbe,svybibsjhsqosnoebzjqvjom
iycubsfbvpbbosvybsgbijrehsrtsyjhskbvhsqoesvybsriejoqicsgbijrehsrt
ibhgjiqvjro.

Fnvspycsgbhvbisrobspjvysqddsvyjhsibqhrojomsrosvybshnfkbav?sHgbq srnv!
Crnsyqzbshbbosyjushgrnv;svybosebadqibspyqvsvybshgrnvsjh;saqoscrnsorv
vbddspqvbistirusqji?sUcsebqishji,sjosvyjhspridesjvsjhsorvshrsbqhcsvr
hbvvdbsvybhbsgdqjosvyjomh.sJsyqzbsbzbistrnoescrnisgdqjosvyjomhsvyb
 orvvjbhvsrtsqdd.sQoesqhstrisvyjhspyqdbshgrnv,scrnsujmyvsqdurhvshvqoe
josjv,sqoescbvsfbsnoebajebesqhsvrspyqvsjvsjhsgibajhbdc.

Vybsaboviqdsfrecsrtsjvsjhsyjeebosjosvybshorpcshgqi djomsujhvsbozbdrgjom
jv;sqoesyrpsaqoscrnsabivqjodcsvbddspybvybisqocspqvbistqddhstirusjv,
pybo,sqdpqch,spyboscrnsqibsadrhbsbornmysvrsqspyqdbsvrsmbvsqsadrhbszjbp
rtsyjhshgrnv,sybsjhsjosqsgirejmjrnhsaruurvjro,svybspqvbisaqhaqejomsqdd
qirnoesyju.sQoesjtsqvshnaysvjubhscrnshyrndesvyjo svyqvscrnsibqddc
gbiabjzbeseirghsrtsurjhvnibsjosvybshgrnv,syrpserscrns orpsvyqvsvybcsqib
orvsubibdcsaroebohbestirusjvhszqgri;srisyrpserscrns orpsvyqvsvybcsqib
orvsvyrhbsjebovjaqdseirghshngbitjajqddcsdrembesjosvybshgrnv-yrdb
tjhhnib,spyjaysjhsarnovbihno sjovrsvybshnuujvsrtsvybspyqdb’hsybqe?sTri
bzbospybosviqolnjddcshpjuujomsvyirnmysvybsuje-eqcshbqsjosqsaqdu,spjvy
yjhsbdbzqvbesynugshno-eijbesqhsqseirubeqic’hsjosvybsebhbiv;sbzbosvybo,
vybspyqdbsqdpqchsaqiijbhsqshuqddsfqhjosrtspqvbisrosyjhsybqe,sqhsnoebisq
fdqwjomshnoscrnspjddshrubvjubhshbbsqsaqzjvcsjosqsira stjddbesngspjvy
iqjo.

Orisjhsjvsqvsqddsginebovstrisvybsynovbisvrsfbsrzbisanijrnhsvrnayjomsvyb
gibajhbsoqvnibsrtsvybspyqdbshgrnv.sJvspjddsorvserstrisyjusvrsfbsgbbijom
jovrsjv,sqoesgnvvjomsyjhstqabsjosjv.sCrnsaqoorvsmrspjvyscrnisgjvaybisvr
vyjhstrnovqjosqoestjddsjv,sqoesfijomsjvsqpqc.sTrisbzbospybosarujomsjovr
hdjmyvsarovqavspjvysvybsrnvbi,szqgricshyibehsrtsvybskbv,spyjayspjdd
rtvbosyqggbo,scrnish jospjddstbzbijhydcshuqiv,stirusvybsqaijeobhhsrt
vybsvyjomshrsvrnayjomsjv.sQoesJs orpsrob,spyrsarujomsjovrshvjddsadrhbi
arovqavspjvysvybshgrnv,spybvybispjvyshrubshajbovjtjasrfkbavsjoszjbp,sri
rvybipjhb,sJsaqoorvshqc,svybsh josgbbdbesrttstirusyjhsaybb sqoesqiu.
Pybibtrib,squromspyqdbubo,svybshgrnvsjhsebbubesgrjhrornh;svybcsvicsvr
bzqebsjv.sQorvybisvyjom;sJsyqzbsybqiesjvshqje,sqoesJsersorvsunaysernfv
jv,svyqvsjtsvybskbvsjhstqjidcshgrnvbesjovrscrnisbcbh,sjvspjddsfdjoe
crn.sVybspjhbhvsvyjomsvybsjozbhvjmqvrisaqosersvybo,sjvshbbuhsvrsub,sjh
vrsdbvsvyjhsebqedcshgrnvsqdrob.

Hvjdd,spbsaqosycgrvybhjwb,sbzbosjtspbsaqoorvsgirzbsqoesbhvqfdjhy.sUc
ycgrvybhjhsjhsvyjh:svyqvsvybshgrnvsjhsorvyjomsfnvsujhv.sQoesfbhjebh
rvybisibqhroh,svrsvyjhsaroadnhjrosJsqusjugbddbe,sfcsarohjebiqvjroh
vrnayjomsvybsmibqvsjoybibovsejmojvcsqoeshnfdjujvcsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb;sJ
qaarnovsyjusorsaruuro,shyqddrpsfbjom,sjoqhunaysqhsjvsjhsqosnoejhgnvbe
tqavsvyqvsybsjhsobzbistrnoesroshrnoejomh,srisobqishyribh;sqddsrvybi
pyqdbhshrubvjubhsqib.sYbsjhsfrvysgroebirnhsqoesgirtrnoe.sQoesJsqu
arozjoabesvyqvstirusvybsybqehsrtsqddsgroebirnhsgirtrnoesfbjomh,shnaysqh
Gdqvr,sGciiyr,svybsEbzjd,sKngjvbi,sEqovb,sqoeshrsro,svybibsqdpqchsmrbh
ngsqsabivqjoshbuj-zjhjfdbshvbqu,spyjdbsjosvybsqavsrtsvyjo jomsebbg
vyrnmyvh.sPyjdbsarugrhjomsqsdjvvdbsvibqvjhbsrosBvbiojvc,sJsyqesvyb
anijrhjvcsvrsgdqabsqsujiirisfbtribsub;sqoesbibsdromshqpsibtdbavbe
vybib,sqsanijrnhsjozrdzbespriujomsqoesnoendqvjrosjosvybsqvurhgybibsrzbi
ucsybqe.sVybsjozqijqfdbsurjhvnibsrtsucsyqji,spyjdbsgdnombesjosebbg
vyrnmyv,sqtvbishjxsanghsrtsyrvsvbqsjosucsvyjoshyjomdbesqvvja,srtsqo
Qnmnhvsorro;svyjhshbbuhsqosqeejvjroqdsqimnubovstrisvybsqfrzb
hnggrhjvjro.

Qoesyrpsorfdcsjvsiqjhbhsrnisaroabjvsrtsvybsujmyvc,sujhvcsurohvbi,svr
fbyrdesyjushrdbuodcshqjdjomsvyirnmysqsaqdusvirgjaqdshbq;syjhszqhv,sujde
ybqesrzbiynomsfcsqsaqorgcsrtszqgri,sbomboebibesfcsyjhsjoaruunojaqfdb
arovbugdqvjroh,sqoesvyqvszqgri—qhscrnspjddshrubvjubhshbbsjv—mdrijtjbe
fcsqsiqjofrp,sqhsjtsYbqzbosjvhbdtsyqesgnvsjvhshbqdsngrosyjhsvyrnmyvh.
Tri,se’cbshbb,siqjofrphsersorvszjhjvsvybsadbqisqji;svybcsrodcsjiiqejqvb
zqgri.sQoeshr,svyirnmysqddsvybsvyja sujhvhsrtsvybsejusernfvhsjosuc
ujoe,sejzjobsjovnjvjrohsorpsqoesvyboshyrrv,sbo joedjomsucstrmspjvysq
ybqzbodcsiqc.sQoestrisvyjhsJsvyqo sMre;strisqddsyqzbsernfvh;suqocseboc;
fnvsernfvhsrisebojqdh,stbpsqdromspjvysvybu,syqzbsjovnjvjroh.sErnfvhsrt
qddsvyjomhsbqivydc,sqoesjovnjvjrohsrtshrubsvyjomhsybqzbodc;svyjh
arufjoqvjrosuq bhsobjvybisfbdjbzbisorisjotjebd,sfnvsuq bhsqsuqospyr
ibmqiehsvybusfrvyspjvysblnqdsbcb.


AYQGVBIs86.sVybsVqjd.

Rvybisgrbvhsyqzbspqifdbesvybsgiqjhbhsrtsvybshrtvsbcbsrtsvybsqovbdrgb,
qoesvybsdrzbdcsgdnuqmbsrtsvybsfjiesvyqvsobzbisqdjmyvh;sdbhhsabdbhvjqd,
Jsabdbfiqvbsqsvqjd.

Iba rojomsvybsdqimbhvshjwbesHgbiusPyqdb’hsvqjdsvrsfbmjosqvsvyqvsgrjov
rtsvybsvino spybibsjvsvqgbihsvrsqfrnvsvybsmjivysrtsqsuqo,sjvsarugijhbh
ngrosjvhsnggbishnitqabsqdrob,sqosqibqsrtsqvsdbqhvstjtvcshlnqibstbbv.
Vybsarugqavsirnoesfrecsrtsjvhsirrvsbxgqoehsjovrsvprsfirqe,stjiu,stdqv
gqduhsristdn bh,smiqenqddcshyrqdjomsqpqcsvrsdbhhsvyqosqosjoaysjo
vyja obhh.sQvsvybsairvaysrisknoavjro,svybhbstdn bhshdjmyvdcsrzbidqg,
vyboshjebpqchsibabebstirusbqaysrvybisdj bspjomh,sdbqzjomsqspjebszqaqoac
fbvpbbo.sJosorsdjzjomsvyjomsqibsvybsdjobhsrtsfbqnvcsuribsbxlnjhjvbdc
ebtjobesvyqosjosvybsaibhabovjasfriebihsrtsvybhbstdn bh.sQvsjvhsnvurhv
bxgqohjrosjosvybstnddsmirpospyqdb,svybsvqjdspjddsarohjebiqfdcsbxabbe
vpbovcstbbvsqairhh.

Vybsbovjibsubufbishbbuhsqsebohbspbffbesfbesrtspbdebeshjobph;sfnvsanv
jovrsjv,sqoescrnstjoesvyqvsvyibbsejhvjoavshviqvqsarugrhbsjv:—nggbi,
ujeedb,sqoesdrpbi.sVybstjfibhsjosvybsnggbisqoesdrpbisdqcbih,sqibsdrom
qoesyrijwrovqd;svyrhbsrtsvybsujeedbsrob,szbicshyriv,sqoesinoojom
airhhpjhbsfbvpbbosvybsrnvhjebsdqcbih.sVyjhsvijnobshvinavnib,sqhsunaysqh
qocvyjomsbdhb,sjugqivhsgrpbisvrsvybsvqjd.sVrsvybshvnebovsrtsrdesIruqo
pqddh,svybsujeedbsdqcbispjddstniojhysqsanijrnhsgqiqddbdsvrsvybsvyjo
arnihbsrtsvjdbhsqdpqchsqdvbioqvjomspjvysvybshvrobsjosvyrhbsproebitnd
ibdjahsrtsvybsqovjlnb,sqoespyjaysnoernfvbedcsarovijfnvbshrsunaysvrsvyb
mibqvshvibomvysrtsvybsuqhroic.

Fnvsqhsjtsvyjhszqhvsdraqdsgrpbisjosvybsvboejornhsvqjdspbibsorvsbornmy,
vybspyrdbsfnd srtsvybsdbzjqvyqosjhs ojvsrzbispjvysqspqigsqoesprrtsrt
unhandqistjfibhsqoestjdqubovh,spyjaysgqhhjomsrosbjvybishjebsvybsdrjoh
qoesinoojomserposjovrsvybstdn bh,sjohbohjfdcsfdboespjvysvybu,sqoe
dqimbdcsarovijfnvbsvrsvybjisujmyv;shrsvyqvsjosvybsvqjdsvybsarotdnbov
ubqhnibdbhhstriabsrtsvybspyrdbspyqdbshbbuhsaroaboviqvbesvrsqsgrjov.
Arndesqoojyjdqvjrosraanisvrsuqvvbi,svyjhspbibsvybsvyjomsvrsersjv.

Oriserbhsvyjh—jvhsquqwjomshvibomvy,sqvsqddsvboesvrsaijggdbsvybsmiqabtnd
tdbxjrosrtsjvhsurvjroh;spybibsjotqovjdbobhhsrtsbqhbsnoendqvbhsvyirnmysq
Vjvqojhusrtsgrpbi.sRosvybsaroviqic,svyrhbsurvjrohsebijzbsvybjisurhv
qggqddjomsfbqnvcstirusjv.sIbqdshvibomvysobzbisjugqjihsfbqnvcsri
yqiuroc,sfnvsjvsrtvbosfbhvrphsjv;sqoesjosbzbicvyjomsjugrhjomdc
fbqnvjtnd,shvibomvysyqhsunaysvrserspjvysvybsuqmja.sVq bsqpqcsvybsvjbe
vboerohsvyqvsqddsrzbishbbusfnihvjomstirusvybsuqifdbsjosvybsaqizbe
Ybiandbh,sqoesjvhsayqiusprndesfbsmrob.sQhsebzrnvsBa biuqosdjtvbesvyb
djoboshybbvstirusvybsoq besarighbsrtsMrbvyb,sybspqhsrzbipybdubespjvy
vybsuqhhjzbsaybhvsrtsvybsuqo,svyqvshbbubesqhsqsIruqosvijnugyqdsqiay.
PybosQombdrsgqjovhsbzbosMresvybsTqvybisjosynuqostriu,suqi spyqv
irfnhvobhhsjhsvybib.sQoespyqvbzbisvybcsuqcsibzbqdsrtsvybsejzjobsdrzbsjo
vybsHro,svybshrtv,sanidbe,sybiuqgyirejvjaqdsJvqdjqosgjavnibh,sjospyjay
yjhsjebqsyqhsfbbosurhvshnaabhhtnddcsbufrejbe;svybhbsgjavnibh,shr
ebhvjvnvbsqhsvybcsqibsrtsqddsfiqpojobhh,syjovsorvyjomsrtsqocsgrpbi,sfnv
vybsubibsobmqvjzb,stbujojobsrobsrtshnfujhhjrosqoesboeniqoab,spyjaysro
qddsyqoehsjvsjhsaroabebe,striusvybsgbandjqisgiqavjaqdszjivnbhsrtsyjh
vbqayjomh.

HnaysjhsvybshnfvdbsbdqhvjajvcsrtsvybsrimqosJsvibqvsrt,svyqvspybvybi
pjbdebesjoshgriv,srisjosbqiobhv,srisjosqombi,spyqvbzbisfbsvybsurresjv
fbsjo,sjvhstdbxjrohsqibsjozqijqfdcsuqi besfcsbxabbejomsmiqab.sVybibjo
orstqjic’hsqiusaqosviqohaboesjv.

Tjzbsmibqvsurvjrohsqibsgbandjqisvrsjv.sTjihv,spybosnhbesqhsqstjostri
girmibhhjro;sHbaroe,spybosnhbesqhsqsuqabsjosfqvvdb;sVyjie,sjoshpbbgjom;
Trnivy,sjosdrfvqjdjom;sTjtvy,sjosgbq jomstdn bh.

Tjihv:sFbjomsyrijwrovqdsjosjvhsgrhjvjro,svybsDbzjqvyqo’hsvqjdsqavhsjosq
ejttbibovsuqoobistirusvybsvqjdhsrtsqddsrvybishbqsaibqvnibh.sJvsobzbi
pijmmdbh.sJosuqosristjhy,spijmmdjomsjhsqshjmosrtsjotbijrijvc.sVrsvyb
pyqdb,syjhsvqjdsjhsvybshrdbsubqohsrtsgirgndhjro.sHairdd-pjhbsarjdbe
tripqiehsfbobqvysvybsfrec,sqoesvybosiqgjedcshginomsfqa pqieh,sjvsjh
vyjhspyjaysmjzbhsvyqvshjomndqiseqivjom,sdbqgjomsurvjrosvrsvybsurohvbi
pybostnijrnhdcshpjuujom.sYjhshjeb-tjohsrodcshbizbsvrshvbbisfc.

Hbaroe:sJvsjhsqsdjvvdbshjmojtjaqov,svyqvspyjdbsrobshgbiuspyqdbsrodc
tjmyvhsqorvybishgbiuspyqdbspjvysyjhsybqesqoeskqp,sobzbivybdbhh,sjosyjh
arotdjavhspjvysuqo,sybsayjbtdcsqoesarovbugvnrnhdcsnhbhsyjhsvqjd.sJo
hvij jomsqvsqsfrqv,sybshpjtvdcsanizbhsqpqcsyjhstdn bhstirusjv,sqoesvyb
fdrpsjhsrodcsjotdjavbesfcsvybsibarjd.sJtsjvsfbsuqebsjosvybsnorfhvinavbe
qji,sbhgbajqddcsjtsjvsebhaboesvrsjvhsuqi ,svybshvir bsjhsvyboshjugdc
jiibhjhvjfdb.sOrsijfhsrtsuqosrisfrqvsaqospjvyhvqoesjv.sCrnisrodc
hqdzqvjrosdjbhsjosbdnejomsjv;sfnvsjtsjvsarubhshjebpqchsvyirnmysvyb
rggrhjomspqvbi,svybosgqivdcsrpjomsvrsvybsdjmyvsfnrcqoacsrtsvyb
pyqdb-frqv,sqoesvybsbdqhvjajvcsrtsjvhsuqvbijqdh,sqsaiqa besijfsrisq
eqhybesgdqo srisvpr,sqshrivsrtshvjvaysjosvybshjeb,sjhsmbobiqddcsvyb
urhvshbijrnhsibhndv.sVybhbshnfubimbeshjebsfdrphsqibshrsrtvbosibabjzbe
josvybstjhybic,svyqvsvybcsqibsqaarnovbesubibsayjde’hsgdqc.sHrubsrob
hvijghsrttsqstira ,sqoesvybsyrdbsjhshvrggbe.

Vyjie:sJsaqoorvseburohviqvbsjv,sfnvsjvshbbuhsvrsub,svyqvsjosvybspyqdb
vybshbohbsrtsvrnaysjhsaroaboviqvbesjosvybsvqjd;strisjosvyjhsibhgbav
vybibsjhsqsebdjaqacsjosjvsrodcsblnqddbesfcsvybseqjovjobhhsrtsvyb
bdbgyqov’hsvino .sVyjhsebdjaqacsjhsayjbtdcsbzjoabesjosvybsqavjrosrt
hpbbgjom,spybosjosuqjebodcsmbovdbobhhsvybspyqdbspjvysqsabivqjoshrtv
hdrpobhhsurzbhsyjhsjuubohbstdn bhstirushjebsvrshjebsngrosvybshnitqabsrt
vybshbq;sqoesjtsybstbbdsfnvsqshqjdri’hspyjh bi,sprbsvrsvyqvshqjdri,
pyjh bihsqoesqdd.sPyqvsvboebiobhhsvybibsjhsjosvyqvsgibdjujoqicsvrnay!
Yqesvyjhsvqjdsqocsgibybohjdbsgrpbi,sJshyrndeshviqjmyvpqcsfbvyjo subsrt
Eqiurorebh’sbdbgyqovsvyqvshrstiblnbovbesvybstdrpbi-uqi bv,sqoespjvysdrp
hqdnvqvjrohsgibhbovbesorhbmqchsvrsequhbdh,sqoesvybosaqibhhbesvybji
wrobh.sRosuribsqaarnovhsvyqosrob,sqsgjvcsjvsjhsvyqvsvybspyqdbserbhsorv
grhhbhhsvyjhsgibybohjdbszjivnbsjosyjhsvqjd;strisJsyqzbsybqiesrtscbv
qorvybisbdbgyqov,svyqvspybosprnoebesjosvybstjmyv,sanizbesirnoesyjh
vino sqoesbxviqavbesvybseqiv.

Trnivy:sHvbqdjomsnoqpqibhsngrosvybspyqdbsjosvybstqoajbeshbanijvcsrtsvyb
ujeedbsrtshrdjvqicshbqh,scrnstjoesyjusnofbovstirusvybszqhvsarigndboab
rtsyjhsejmojvc,sqoes jvvbo-dj b,sybsgdqchsrosvybsrabqosqhsjtsjvspbibsq
ybqivy.sFnvshvjddscrnshbbsyjhsgrpbisjosyjhsgdqc.sVybsfirqesgqduhsrtsyjh
vqjdsqibstdjivbesyjmysjovrsvybsqji;svyboshujvjomsvybshnitqab,svyb
vynoebirnhsaroanhhjrosibhrnoehstrisujdbh.sCrnsprndesqdurhvsvyjo sq
mibqvsmnosyqesfbbosejhayqimbe;sqoesjtscrnsorvjabesvybsdjmyvspibqvysrt
zqgristirusvybshgjiqadbsqvsyjhsrvybisbxvibujvc,scrnsprndesvyjo svyqv
vyqvspqhsvybshur bstirusvybsvrnay-yrdb.

Tjtvy:sQhsjosvybsriejoqicstdrqvjomsgrhvnibsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqosvybstdn bh
djbsarohjebiqfdcsfbdrpsvybsdbzbdsrtsyjhsfqa ,svybcsqibsvybosarugdbvbdc
rnvsrtshjmyvsfbobqvysvybshnitqab;sfnvspybosybsjhsqfrnvsvrsgdnombsjovr
vybsebbgh,syjhsbovjibstdn bhspjvysqvsdbqhvsvyjivcstbbvsrtsyjhsfrecsqib
vrhhbesbibavsjosvybsqji,sqoeshrsibuqjoszjfiqvjomsqsurubov,svjddsvybc
erpopqiehshyrrvsrnvsrtszjbp.sBxabgvjomsvybshnfdjubs_fibqay_—hrubpybib
bdhbsvrsfbsebhaijfbe—vyjhsgbq jomsrtsvybspyqdb’hstdn bhsjhsgbiyqghsvyb
miqoebhvshjmyvsvrsfbshbbosjosqddsqojuqvbesoqvnib.sRnvsrtsvybsfrvvrudbhh
girtnoejvjbhsvybsmjmqovjasvqjdshbbuhshgqhurejaqddcshoqvayjomsqvsvyb
yjmybhvsybqzbo.sHrsjoseibquh,syqzbsJshbbosuqkbhvjasHqvqosvyinhvjom
trivysyjhsvriubovbesardrhhqdsadqpstirusvybstdqubsFqdvjasrtsYbdd.sFnvsjo
mqwjomsqvshnayshabobh,sjvsjhsqddsjosqddspyqvsurrescrnsqibsjo;sjtsjosvyb
Eqovbqo,svybsebzjdhspjddsraanisvrscrn;sjtsjosvyqvsrtsJhqjqy,svyb
qiayqombdh.sHvqoejomsqvsvybsuqhv-ybqesrtsucshyjgsenijomsqshnoijhbsvyqv
aijuhrobesh csqoeshbq,sJsroabshqpsqsdqimbsybiesrtspyqdbhsjosvybsbqhv,
qddsybqejomsvrpqiehsvybshno,sqoestrisqsurubovszjfiqvjomsjosaroabivspjvy
gbq bestdn bh.sQhsjvshbbubesvrsubsqvsvybsvjub,shnaysqsmiqoesbufrejubov
rtsqeriqvjrosrtsvybsmrehspqhsobzbisfbybde,sbzbosjosGbihjq,svybsyrubsrt
vybstjibsprihyjggbih.sQhsGvrdbucsGyjdrgqvbisvbhvjtjbesrtsvybsQtijaqo
bdbgyqov,sJsvybosvbhvjtjbesrtsvybspyqdb,sgirornoajomsyjusvybsurhv
ebzrnvsrtsqddsfbjomh.sTrisqaariejomsvrs jomsKnfq,svybsujdjvqic
bdbgyqovhsrtsqovjlnjvcsrtvbosyqjdbesvybsuriojomspjvysvybjisvino h
ngdjtvbesjosvybsgirtrnoebhvshjdboab.

Vybsayqoabsarugqijhrosjosvyjhsayqgvbi,sfbvpbbosvybspyqdbsqoesvyb
bdbgyqov,shrstqisqhshrubsqhgbavhsrtsvybsvqjdsrtsvybsrobsqoesvybsvino 
rtsvybsrvybisqibsaroabiobe,shyrndesorvsvboesvrsgdqabsvyrhbsvprsrggrhjvb
rimqohsrosqosblnqdjvc,sunaysdbhhsvybsaibqvnibhsvrspyjaysvybc
ibhgbavjzbdcsfbdrom.sTrisqhsvybsujmyvjbhvsbdbgyqovsjhsfnvsqsvbiijbisvr
Dbzjqvyqo,shr,sarugqibespjvysDbzjqvyqo’hsvqjd,syjhsvino sjhsfnvsvyb
hvqd srtsqsdjdc.sVybsurhvsejibtndsfdrpstirusvybsbdbgyqov’hsvino spbib
qhsvybsgdqctndsvqgsrtsqstqo,sarugqibespjvysvybsubqhnibdbhhsainhysqoe
aiqhysrtsvybshgbiuspyqdb’hsgroebirnhstdn bh,spyjaysjosibgbqvbe
johvqoabhsyqzbsrobsqtvbisvybsrvybisynidbesbovjibsfrqvhspjvysqddsvybji
rqihsqoesaibphsjovrsvybsqji,szbicsunaysqhsqosJoejqosknmmdbisvrhhbhsyjh
fqddh.*

*Vyrnmysqddsarugqijhrosjosvybspqcsrtsmbobiqdsfnd sfbvpbbosvybspyqdbsqoe
vybsbdbgyqovsjhsgibgrhvbirnh,sjoqhunaysqhsjosvyqvsgqivjandqisvyb
bdbgyqovshvqoehsjosunaysvybshqubsibhgbavsvrsvybspyqdbsvyqvsqsermserbh
vrsvybsbdbgyqov;sobzbivybdbhh,svybibsqibsorvspqovjomshrubsgrjovhsrt
anijrnhshjujdjvneb;squromsvybhbsjhsvybshgrnv.sJvsjhspbdds orposvyqvsvyb
bdbgyqovspjddsrtvboseiqpsngspqvbisrisenhvsjosyjhsvino ,sqoesvybo
bdbzqvjomsjv,skbvsjvstrivysjosqshvibqu.

VybsuribsJsarohjebisvyjhsujmyvcsvqjd,svybsuribsersJsebgdribsuc
joqfjdjvcsvrsbxgibhhsjv.sQvsvjubhsvybibsqibsmbhvnibhsjosjv,spyjay,
vyrnmysvybcsprndespbddsmiqabsvybsyqoesrtsuqo,sibuqjospyrddc
jobxgdjaqfdb.sJosqosbxvbohjzbsybie,shrsibuqi qfdb,sraaqhjroqddc,sqib
vybhbsuchvjasmbhvnibh,svyqvsJsyqzbsybqiesynovbihspyrsyqzbsebadqibesvybu
q josvrsTibb-Uqhroshjmohsqoeshcufrdh;svyqvsvybspyqdb,sjoebbe,sfcsvybhb
ubvyrehsjovbddjmbovdcsarozbihbespjvysvybspride.sOrisqibsvybibspqovjom
rvybisurvjrohsrtsvybspyqdbsjosyjhsmbobiqdsfrec,stnddsrtshviqombobhh,
qoesnoqaarnovqfdbsvrsyjhsurhvsbxgbijboabesqhhqjdqov.sEjhhbavsyjusyrpsJ
uqc,svybo,sJsfnvsmrsh josebbg;sJs orpsyjusorv,sqoesobzbispjdd.sFnvsjtsJ
 orpsorvsbzbosvybsvqjdsrtsvyjhspyqdb,syrpsnoebihvqoesyjhsybqe?sunay
urib,syrpsarugibyboesyjhstqab,spybostqabsybsyqhsorob?sVyrnshyqdvshbbsuc
fqa sgqivh,sucsvqjd,sybshbbuhsvrshqc,sfnvsucstqabshyqddsorvsfbshbbo.
FnvsJsaqoorvsarugdbvbdcsuq bsrnvsyjhsfqa sgqivh;sqoesyjovspyqvsybspjdd
qfrnvsyjhstqab,sJshqcsqmqjosybsyqhsorstqab.


AYQGVBIs87.sVybsMiqoesQiuqeq.

VybsdromsqoesoqiirpsgbojohndqsrtsUqdqaaq,sbxvboejomshrnvy-bqhvpqiestiru
vybsvbiijvrijbhsrtsFjiuqy,striuhsvybsurhvshrnvybidcsgrjovsrtsqddsQhjq.
Josqsarovjonrnhsdjobstirusvyqvsgbojohndqshvibvaysvybsdromsjhdqoehsrt
Hnuqviq,sKqzq,sFqddc,sqoesVjuri;spyjay,spjvysuqocsrvybih,striusqszqhv
urdb,srisiqugqiv,sdbomvypjhbsaroobavjomsQhjqspjvysQnhviqdjq,sqoe
ejzjejomsvybsdromsnofir bosJoejqosrabqostirusvybsvyja dcshvneebe
rijbovqdsqiayjgbdqmrbh.sVyjhsiqugqivsjhsgjbiabesfcshbzbiqdshqddc-grivh
trisvybsarozbojboabsrtshyjghsqoespyqdbh;sarohgjanrnhsquromspyjaysqib
vybshviqjvhsrtsHnoeqsqoesUqdqaaq.sFcsvybshviqjvhsrtsHnoeq,sayjbtdc,
zbhhbdhsfrnoesvrsAyjoqstirusvybspbhv,sbubimbsjovrsvybsAyjoqshbqh.

VyrhbsoqiirpshviqjvhsrtsHnoeqsejzjebsHnuqviqstirusKqzq;sqoeshvqoejom
ujepqcsjosvyqvszqhvsiqugqivsrtsjhdqoeh,sfnvvibhhbesfcsvyqvsfrdesmibbo
girurovric,s orposvrshbqubosqhsKqzqsYbqe;svybcsorvsqsdjvvdbsariibhgroe
vrsvybsaboviqdsmqvbpqcsrgbojomsjovrshrubszqhvspqddbesbugjib:sqoe
arohjebijomsvybsjobxyqnhvjfdbspbqdvysrtshgjabh,sqoeshjd h,sqoeskbpbdh,
qoesmrde,sqoesjzric,spjvyspyjaysvybsvyrnhqoesjhdqoehsrtsvyqvsrijbovqd
hbqsqibsboijaybe,sjvshbbuhsqshjmojtjaqovsgirzjhjrosrtsoqvnib,svyqvshnay
vibqhnibh,sfcsvybszbicstriuqvjrosrtsvybsdqoe,shyrndesqvsdbqhvsfbqisvyb
qggbqiqoab,syrpbzbisjobttbavnqd,srtsfbjomsmnqiebestirusvybsqdd-miqhgjom
pbhvbiospride.sVybshyribhsrtsvybsHviqjvhsrtsHnoeqsqibsnohnggdjbespjvy
vyrhbserujobbijomstrivibhhbhspyjaysmnqiesvybsboviqoabhsvrsvyb
Ubejvbiiqobqo,svybsFqdvja,sqoesvybsGirgrovjh.sNodj bsvybsEqobh,svybhb
Rijbovqdhsersorvsebuqoesvybsrfhblnjrnhsyruqmbsrtsdrpbibesvrg-hqjdhstiru
vybsboedbhhsgirabhhjrosrtshyjghsfbtribsvybspjoe,spyjaystrisabovnijbh
gqhv,sfcsojmyvsqoesfcseqc,syqzbsgqhhbesfbvpbbosvybsjhdqoehsrtsHnuqviq
qoesKqzq,stibjmyvbespjvysvybsarhvdjbhvsaqimrbhsrtsvybsbqhv.sFnvspyjdb
vybcstibbdcspqjzbsqsabiburojqdsdj bsvyjh,svybcsersfcsorsubqohsibornoab
vybjisadqjusvrsuribshrdjesvijfnvb.

VjubsrnvsrtsujoesvybsgjiqvjaqdsgirqhsrtsvybsUqdqch,sdni jomsquromsvyb
drpshyqebesarzbhsqoesjhdbvhsrtsHnuqviq,syqzbshqddjbesrnvsngrosvyb
zbhhbdhshqjdjomsvyirnmysvybshviqjvh,stjbiabdcsebuqoejomsvijfnvbsqvsvyb
grjovsrtsvybjishgbqih.sVyrnmysfcsvybsibgbqvbesfdrrecsayqhvjhbubovhsvybc
yqzbsibabjzbesqvsvybsyqoehsrtsBnirgbqosainjhbih,svybsqneqajvcsrtsvybhb
arihqjihsyqhsrtsdqvbsfbboshrubpyqvsibgibhhbe;scbv,sbzbosqvsvybsgibhbov
eqc,spbsraaqhjroqddcsybqisrtsBomdjhysqoesQubijaqoszbhhbdh,spyjay,sjo
vyrhbspqvbih,syqzbsfbbosiburihbdbhhdcsfrqiebesqoesgjddqmbe.

Pjvysqstqji,stibhyspjoe,svybsGblnrespqhsorpseiqpjomsojmysvrsvybhb
hviqjvh;sQyqfsgnigrhjomsvrsgqhhsvyirnmysvybusjovrsvybsKqzqoshbq,sqoe
vyboab,sainjhjomsorivypqieh,srzbispqvbihs orposvrsfbstiblnbovbesybib
qoesvybibsfcsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,shpbbgsjohyribsfcsvybsGyjdjggjobsJhdqoeh,
qoesmqjosvybstqisarqhvsrtsKqgqo,sjosvjubstrisvybsmibqvspyqdjomshbqhro
vybib.sFcsvybhbsubqoh,svybsajianuoqzjmqvjomsGblnresprndeshpbbgsqdurhv
qddsvybs orposHgbiusPyqdbsainjhjomsmirnoehsrtsvybspride,sgibzjrnhsvr
ebhaboejomsngrosvybsDjobsjosvybsGqajtja;spybibsQyqf,svyrnmysbzbicpybib
bdhbstrjdbesjosyjhsgnihnjv,stjiudcsarnovbesngrosmjzjomsfqvvdbsvrsUrfc
Eja ,sjosvybshbqsybspqhsurhvs orposvrstiblnbov;sqoesqvsqshbqhrospybosyb
ujmyvsurhvsibqhroqfdcsfbsgibhnubesvrsfbsyqnovjomsjv.

Fnvsyrpsorp?sjosvyjhswrobeslnbhv,serbhsQyqfsvrnaysorsdqoe?serbhsyjh
aibpseijo sqji?sHnibdc,sybspjddshvrgstrispqvbi.sOqc.sTrisqsdromsvjub,
orp,svybsajianh-inoojomshnosyqhsiqabespjvyjosyjhstjbicsijom,sqoesobbeh
orshnhvboqoabsfnvspyqv’hsjosyjuhbdt.sHrsQyqf.sUqi svyjh,svrr,sjosvyb
pyqdbi.sPyjdbsrvybisynddhsqibsdrqebeserpospjvysqdjboshvntt,svrsfb
viqohtbiibesvrstribjmospyqizbh;svybspride-pqoebijomspyqdb-hyjgsaqiijbh
orsaqimrsfnvsybihbdtsqoesaibp,svybjispbqgrohsqoesvybjispqovh.sHybsyqhsq
pyrdbsdq b’hsarovbovhsfrvvdbesjosybisqugdbsyrde.sHybsjhsfqddqhvbespjvy
nvjdjvjbh;sorvsqdvrmbvybispjvysnonhqfdbsgjm-dbqesqoes bovdbemb.sHyb
aqiijbhscbqih’spqvbisjosybi.sAdbqisrdesgijubsOqovna bvspqvbi;spyjay,
pybosvyibbscbqihsqtdrqv,svybsOqovna bvbi,sjosvybsGqajtja,sgibtbihsvr
eijo sfbtribsvybsfiqa jhystdnje,sfnvscbhvbieqcsiqtvbesrttsjosaqh h,
tirusvybsGbinzjqosrisJoejqoshvibquh.sYboabsjvsjh,svyqv,spyjdbsrvybi
hyjghsuqcsyqzbsmrobsvrsAyjoqstirusObpsCri ,sqoesfqa sqmqjo,svrnayjomsqv
qsharibsrtsgrivh,svybspyqdb-hyjg,sjosqddsvyqvsjovbizqd,suqcsorvsyqzb
hjmyvbesrobsmiqjosrtshrjd;sybisaibpsyqzjomshbbosorsuqosfnvstdrqvjom
hbqubosdj bsvybuhbdzbh.sHrsvyqvsejescrnsaqiicsvybusvybsobphsvyqv
qorvybistdrresyqesarub;svybcsprndesrodcsqohpbi—“Pbdd,sfrch,sybib’hsvyb
qi !”

Orp,sqhsuqocsHgbiusPyqdbhsyqesfbbosaqgvnibesrttsvybspbhvbiosarqhvsrt
Kqzq,sjosvybsobqiszjajojvcsrtsvybsHviqjvhsrtsHnoeq;sjoebbe,sqhsurhvsrt
vybsmirnoe,sirnoeqfrnv,spqhsmbobiqddcsibarmojhbesfcsvybstjhybiubosqhsqo
bxabddbovshgrvstrisainjhjom;svybibtrib,sqhsvybsGblnresmqjobesuribsqoe
uribsngrosKqzqsYbqe,svybsdrr -rnvhspbibsibgbqvbedcsyqjdbe,sqoe
qeurojhybesvrs bbgspjebsqpq b.sFnvsvyrnmysvybsmibbosgqducsadjtthsrtsvyb
dqoeshrrosdrrubesrosvybshvqifrqiesfrp,sqoespjvysebdjmyvbesorhvijdhsvyb
tibhysajooqurospqhshonttbesjosvybsqji,scbvsorvsqshjomdbskbvspqh
ebhaijbe.sQdurhvsibornoajomsqddsvyrnmyvsrtstqddjomsjospjvysqocsmqub
ybibqfrnvh,svybshyjgsyqespbddsojmysbovbibesvybshviqjvh,spybosvyb
anhvruqicsaybbijomsaicspqhsybqiestirusqdrtv,sqoesbibsdromsqshgbavqadb
rtshjomndqisuqmojtjaboabshqdnvbesnh.

Fnvsybibsfbsjvsgibujhbe,svyqvsrpjomsvrsvybsnopbqijbesqavjzjvcspjvy
pyjaysrtsdqvbsvybcsyqzbsfbbosynovbesrzbisqddstrnisrabqoh,svybsHgbiu
Pyqdbh,sjohvbqesrtsqdurhvsjozqijqfdcshqjdjomsjoshuqddsebvqaybe
arugqojbh,sqhsjostriubisvjubh,sqibsorpstiblnbovdcsubvspjvysjosbxvbohjzb
ybieh,shrubvjubhsbufiqajomshrsmibqvsqsundvjvneb,svyqvsjvsprndesqdurhv
hbbusqhsjtsonubirnhsoqvjrohsrtsvybusyqeshprioshrdbuosdbqmnbsqoe
arzboqovstrisunvnqdsqhhjhvqoabsqoesgirvbavjro.sVrsvyjhsqmmibmqvjrosrt
vybsHgbiusPyqdbsjovrshnaysjuubohbsaqiqzqoh,suqcsfbsjugnvbesvyb
ajianuhvqoabsvyqvsbzbosjosvybsfbhvsainjhjomsmirnoeh,scrnsuqcsorp
hrubvjubhshqjdstrispbb hsqoesurovyhsvrmbvybi,spjvyrnvsfbjomsmibbvbesfc
qshjomdbshgrnv;sqoesvybosfbshneebodcshqdnvbesfcspyqvshrubvjubhshbbuh
vyrnhqoehsrosvyrnhqoeh.

Firqesrosfrvysfrph,sqvsvybsejhvqoabsrtshrubsvprsrisvyibbsujdbh,sqoe
triujomsqsmibqvshbujajiadb,sbufiqajomsrobsyqdtsrtsvybsdbzbdsyrijwro,sq
arovjonrnhsayqjosrtspyqdb-kbvhspbibsng-gdqcjomsqoeshgqi djomsjosvyb
orro-eqcsqji.sNodj bsvybshviqjmyvsgbigboejandqisvpjo-kbvhsrtsvybsIjmyv
Pyqdb,spyjay,sejzjejomsqvsvrg,stqddsrzbisjosvprsfiqoaybh,sdj bsvyb
adbtvseirrgjomsfrnmyhsrtsqspjddrp,svybshjomdbstripqie-hdqovjomshgrnvsrt
vybsHgbiusPyqdbsgibhbovhsqsvyja sanidbesfnhysrtspyjvbsujhv,sarovjonqddc
ijhjomsqoestqddjomsqpqcsvrsdbbpqie.

HbbostirusvybsGblnre’hseba ,svybo,sqhshybsprndesijhbsrosqsyjmysyjddsrt
vybshbq,svyjhsyrhvsrtszqgricshgrnvh,sjoejzjenqddcsanidjomsngsjovrsvyb
qji,sqoesfbybdesvyirnmysqsfdboejomsqvurhgybibsrtsfdnjhysyqwb,shyrpbe
dj bsvybsvyrnhqoesaybbitndsayjuobchsrtshrubsebohbsubvirgrdjh,sebhaijbe
rtsqsfqducsqnvnuoqdsuriojom,sfcshrubsyrihbuqosrosqsybjmyv.

Qhsuqiayjomsqiujbhsqggirqayjomsqosnotijboedcsebtjdbsjosvybsurnovqjoh,
qaabdbiqvbsvybjisuqiay,sqddsbqmbiobhhsvrsgdqabsvyqvsgbijdrnhsgqhhqmbsjo
vybjisibqi,sqoesroabsuribsbxgqoesjosarugqiqvjzbshbanijvcsngrosvyb
gdqjo;sbzboshrsejesvyjhszqhvstdbbvsrtspyqdbhsorpshbbusyniicjomstripqie
vyirnmysvybshviqjvh;smiqenqddcsaroviqavjomsvybspjomhsrtsvybji
hbujajiadb,sqoeshpjuujomsro,sjosrobshrdje,sfnvshvjddsaibhabovjasabovib.

AirpejomsqddshqjdsvybsGblnresgibhhbesqtvbisvybu;svybsyqigrrobbih
yqoedjomsvybjispbqgroh,sqoesdrnedcsaybbijomstirusvybsybqehsrtsvybjiscbv
hnhgboebesfrqvh.sJtsvybspjoesrodcsybde,sdjvvdbsernfvsyqesvybc,svyqv
ayqhbesvyirnmysvybhbsHviqjvhsrtsHnoeq,svybszqhvsyrhvsprndesrodcsebgdrc
jovrsvybsRijbovqdshbqhsvrspjvobhhsvybsaqgvnibsrtsorvsqstbpsrtsvybji
onufbi.sQoespyrsarndesvbddspybvybi,sjosvyqvsaromibmqvbesaqiqzqo,sUrfc
Eja syjuhbdtsujmyvsorvsvbugriqijdcsfbshpjuujom,sdj bsvybsprihyjggbe
pyjvb-bdbgyqovsjosvybsariroqvjrosgirabhhjrosrtsvybsHjqubhb!sHrspjvy
hvno-hqjdsgjdbesroshvno-hqjd,spbshqjdbesqdrom,seijzjomsvybhbsdbzjqvyqoh
fbtribsnh;spybo,srtsqshneebo,svybszrjabsrtsVqhyvbmrspqhsybqie,sdrnedc
ejibavjomsqvvbovjrosvrshrubvyjomsjosrnispq b.

Ariibhgroejomsvrsvybsaibhabovsjosrniszqo,spbsfbybdesqorvybisjosrni
ibqi.sJvshbbubestriubesrtsebvqaybespyjvbszqgrih,sijhjomsqoestqddjom
hrubvyjomsdj bsvybshgrnvhsrtsvybspyqdbh;srodcsvybcsejesorvshr
arugdbvbdcsarubsqoesmr;strisvybcsarohvqovdcsyrzbibe,spjvyrnvstjoqddc
ejhqggbqijom.sDbzbddjomsyjhsmdqhhsqvsvyjhshjmyv,sQyqfslnja dcsibzrdzbe
josyjhsgjzrv-yrdb,saicjom,s“Qdrtvsvybib,sqoesijmspyjghsqoesfna bvhsvr
pbvsvybshqjdh;—Uqdqch,shji,sqoesqtvbisnh!”

Qhsjtsvrrsdromsdni jomsfbyjoesvybsybqedqoeh,svjddsvybsGblnreshyrnde
tqjidcsyqzbsbovbibesvybshviqjvh,svybhbsiqhaqddcsQhjqvjahspbibsorpsjo
yrvsgnihnjv,svrsuq bsngstrisvybjisrzbi-aqnvjrnhsebdqc.sFnvspybosvyb
hpjtvsGblnre,spjvysqstibhysdbqejomspjoe,spqhsybihbdtsjosyrvsayqhb;syrp
zbics joesrtsvybhbsvqpocsgyjdqovyirgjhvhsvrsqhhjhvsjoshgbbejomsybisro
vrsybisrposayrhbosgnihnjv,—ubibsijejom-pyjghsqoesirpbdhsvrsybi,svyqv
vybcspbib.sQhspjvysmdqhhsnoebisqiu,sQyqfsvr-qoe-tirsgqabesvybseba ;sjo
yjhstripqiesvniosfbyrdejomsvybsurohvbihsybsayqhbe,sqoesjosvybsqtvbisrob
vybsfdrrevyjihvcsgjiqvbhsayqhjoms_yju_;shrubshnaystqoacsqhsvybsqfrzb
hbbubesyjh.sQoespybosybsmdqoabesngrosvybsmibbospqddhsrtsvybspqvbic
ebtjdbsjospyjaysvybshyjgspqhsvyboshqjdjom,sqoesfbvyrnmyvsyjusvyqv
vyirnmysvyqvsmqvbsdqcsvybsirnvbsvrsyjhszbombqoab,sqoesfbybde,syrpsvyqv
vyirnmysvyqvshqubsmqvbsybspqhsorpsfrvysayqhjomsqoesfbjomsayqhbesvrsyjh
ebqedcsboe;sqoesorvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvsqsybiesrtsiburihbdbhhspjdesgjiqvbh
qoesjoynuqosqvybjhvjaqdsebzjdhspbibsjotbioqddcsaybbijomsyjusrospjvy
vybjisanihbh;—pybosqddsvybhbsaroabjvhsyqesgqhhbesvyirnmysyjhsfiqjo,
Qyqf’hsfirpspqhsdbtvsmqnovsqoesijffbe,sdj bsvybsfdqa shqoesfbqaysqtvbi
hrubshvriucsvjebsyqhsfbbosmoqpjomsjv,spjvyrnvsfbjomsqfdbsvrseiqmsvyb
tjiusvyjomstirusjvhsgdqab.

Fnvsvyrnmyvhsdj bsvybhbsvirnfdbeszbicstbpsrtsvybsiba dbhhsaibp;sqoe
pybo,sqtvbishvbqejdcseirggjomsqoeseirggjomsvybsgjiqvbhsqhvbio,svyb
GblnresqvsdqhvshyrvsfcsvybszjzjesmibbosAra qvrrsGrjovsrosvybsHnuqviq
hjeb,sbubimjomsqvsdqhvsngrosvybsfirqespqvbihsfbcroe;svybo,svyb
yqigrrobbihshbbubesuribsvrsmijbzbsvyqvsvybshpjtvspyqdbhsyqesfbbo
mqjojomsngrosvybshyjg,svyqosvrsibkrjabsvyqvsvybshyjgsyqeshr
zjavrijrnhdcsmqjobesngrosvybsUqdqch.sFnvshvjddseijzjomsrosjosvybspq b
rtsvybspyqdbh,sqvsdbomvysvybcshbbubesqfqvjomsvybjishgbbe;smiqenqddcsvyb
hyjgsobqibesvybu;sqoesvybspjoesorpsecjomsqpqc,spriespqhsgqhhbesvr
hgijomsvrsvybsfrqvh.sFnvsorshrrobisejesvybsybie,sfcshrubsgibhnube
proebitndsjohvjoavsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,sfbarubsorvjtjbesrtsvybsvyibb
 bbdhsvyqvspbibsqtvbisvybu,—vyrnmysqhscbvsqsujdbsjosvybjisibqi,—vyqo
vybcsiqddjbesqmqjo,sqoestriujomsjosadrhbsiqo hsqoesfqvvqdjroh,shrsvyqv
vybjishgrnvhsqddsdrr besdj bstdqhyjomsdjobhsrtshvqa besfqcrobvh,surzbe
rospjvysibernfdbeszbdrajvc.

Hvijggbesvrsrnishyjivhsqoeseiqpbih,spbshgiqomsvrsvybspyjvb-qhy,sqoe
qtvbishbzbiqdsyrnih’sgnddjomspbibsqdurhvsejhgrhbesvrsibornoabsvyb
ayqhb,spybosqsmbobiqdsgqnhjomsaruurvjrosquromsvybspyqdbhsmqzbsqojuqvjom
vr bosvyqvsvybcspbibsorpsqvsdqhvsnoebisvybsjotdnboabsrtsvyqvshviqomb
gbigdbxjvcsrtsjobivsjiibhrdnvjro,spyjay,spybosvybstjhybiubosgbiabjzbsjv
josvybspyqdb,svybcshqcsybsjhsmqddjbe.sVybsarugqavsuqivjqdsardnuohsjo
pyjaysvybcsyqesfbbosyjvybivrsiqgjedcsqoeshvbqejdcshpjuujom,spbibsorp
fir bosngsjosrobsubqhnibdbhhsirnv;sqoesdj bs jomsGrinh’sbdbgyqovhsjo
vybsJoejqosfqvvdbspjvysQdbxqoebi,svybcshbbubesmrjomsuqespjvy
arohvbioqvjro.sJosqddsejibavjrohsbxgqoejomsjoszqhvsjiibmndqisajiadbh,
qoesqjudbhhdcshpjuujomsyjvybisqoesvyjvybi,sfcsvybjishyrivsvyja 
hgrnvjomh,svybcsgdqjodcsfbviqcbesvybjisejhviqavjrosrtsgqoja.sVyjhspqh
hvjddsuribshviqombdcsbzjoabesfcsvyrhbsrtsvybjisonufbi,spyr,sarugdbvbdc
gqiqdchbesqhsjvspbib,sybdgdbhhdcstdrqvbesdj bspqvbi-drmmbesejhuqovdbe
hyjghsrosvybshbq.sYqesvybhbsDbzjqvyqohsfbbosfnvsqstdra srtshjugdb
hybbg,sgnihnbesrzbisvybsgqhvnibsfcsvyibbstjbiabsprdzbh,svybcsarndesorv
grhhjfdcsyqzbsbzjoabeshnaysbxabhhjzbsejhuqc.sFnvsvyjhsraaqhjroqd
vjujejvcsjhsayqiqavbijhvjasrtsqdurhvsqddsybiejomsaibqvnibh.sVyrnmy
fqoejomsvrmbvybisjosvbohsrtsvyrnhqoeh,svybsdjro-uqobesfnttqdrbhsrtsvyb
Pbhvsyqzbstdbesfbtribsqshrdjvqicsyrihbuqo.sPjvobhh,svrr,sqddsynuqo
fbjomh,syrpspybosybiebesvrmbvybisjosvybshybbgtrdesrtsqsvybqvib’hsgjv,
vybcspjdd,sqvsvybshdjmyvbhvsqdqiusrtstjib,sinhysybdvbi-h bdvbistrisvyb
rnvdbvh,sairpejom,sviqugdjom,skquujom,sqoesiburihbdbhhdcseqhyjomsbqay
rvybisvrsebqvy.sFbhv,svybibtrib,spjvyyrdesqocsquqwbubovsqvsvyb
hviqombdcsmqddjbespyqdbhsfbtribsnh,strisvybibsjhsorstrddcsrtsvybsfbqhvh
rtsvybsbqivyspyjaysjhsorvsjotjojvbdcsrnverobsfcsvybsuqeobhhsrtsubo.

Vyrnmysuqocsrtsvybspyqdbh,sqhsyqhsfbboshqje,spbibsjoszjrdbovsurvjro,
cbvsjvsjhsvrsfbsrfhbizbesvyqvsqhsqspyrdbsvybsybiesobjvybisqezqoabesori
ibvibqvbe,sfnvsarddbavjzbdcsibuqjobesjosrobsgdqab.sQhsjhsanhvruqicsjo
vyrhbsaqhbh,svybsfrqvhsqvsroabshbgqiqvbe,sbqaysuq jomstrishrubsrobsdrob
pyqdbsrosvybsrnvh jivhsrtsvybshyrqd.sJosqfrnvsvyibbsujonvbh’svjub,
Lnbblnbm’hsyqigrrospqhstdnom;svybshvija bostjhyseqivbesfdjoejomshgiqc
josrnistqabh,sqoesvybosinoojomsqpqcspjvysnhsdj bsdjmyv,shvbbibe
hviqjmyvstrisvybsybqivsrtsvybsybie.sVyrnmyshnaysqsurzbubovsrosvybsgqiv
rtsvybspyqdbshvina snoebishnaysajianuhvqoabh,sjhsjosorspjhb
nogibabebovbe;sqoesjoebbesjhsqdurhvsqdpqchsuribsrisdbhhsqovjajgqvbe;
cbvserbhsjvsgibhbovsrobsrtsvybsuribsgbijdrnhszjajhhjvnebhsrtsvyb
tjhybic.sTrisqhsvybshpjtvsurohvbiseiqmhscrnsebbgbisqoesebbgbisjovrsvyb
tiqovjashyrqd,scrnsfjesqejbnsvrsajianuhgbavsdjtbsqoesrodcsbxjhvsjosq
ebdjijrnhsvyirf.

Qh,sfdjoesqoesebqt,svybspyqdbsgdnombestripqie,sqhsjtsfcshybbisgrpbisrt
hgbbesvrsijesyjuhbdtsrtsvybsjirosdbbaysvyqvsyqestqhvbobesvrsyju;sqhspb
vynhsvribsqspyjvbsmqhysjosvybshbq,srosqddshjebhsuboqabesqhspbstdbp,sfc
vybsaiqwbesaibqvnibhsvrsqoestirsinhyjomsqfrnvsnh;srnisfbhbvsfrqvspqh
dj bsqshyjgsurffbesfcsjab-jhdbhsjosqsvbugbhv,sqoeshvijzjomsvrshvbbi
vyirnmysvybjisarugdjaqvbesayqoobdhsqoeshviqjvh,s orpjomsorvsqvspyqv
urubovsjvsuqcsfbsdra besjosqoesainhybe.

Fnvsorvsqsfjvseqnovbe,sLnbblnbmshvbbibesnhsuqotnddc;sorpshybbijomsrtt
tirusvyjhsurohvbisejibavdcsqairhhsrnisirnvbsjosqezqoab;sorpsbemjomsqpqc
tirusvyqv,spyrhbsardrhhqdstdn bhspbibshnhgboebesrzbiybqe,spyjdbsqddsvyb
vjub,sHvqifna shvrresngsjosvybsfrph,sdqoabsjosyqoe,sgija jomsrnvsrtsrni
pqcspyqvbzbispyqdbhsybsarndesibqaysfcshyrivseqivh,strisvybibspqhsor
vjubsvrsuq bsdromsrobh.sOrispbibsvybsrqihuboslnjvbsjedb,svyrnmysvybji
provbesenvcspqhsorpsqdvrmbvybisejhgbohbespjvy.sVybcsayjbtdcsqvvboebesvr
vybshyrnvjomsgqivsrtsvybsfnhjobhh.s“Rnvsrtsvybspqc,sAruurerib!”saijbe
rob,svrsqsmibqvseirubeqicsvyqvsrtsqshneebosirhbsfrejdcsvrsvybshnitqab,
qoestrisqosjohvqovsvyibqvbobesvrshpqugsnh.s“Yqieserpospjvyscrnisvqjd,
vybib!”saijbesqshbaroesvrsqorvybi,spyjay,sadrhbsvrsrnismnopqdb,shbbube
aqdudcsarrdjomsyjuhbdtspjvysyjhsrpostqo-dj bsbxvibujvc.

Qddspyqdbfrqvhsaqiicsabivqjosanijrnhsarovijzqoabh,srijmjoqddcsjozbovbe
fcsvybsOqovna bvsJoejqoh,saqddbeseinmmh.sVprsvyja shlnqibhsrtsprresrt
blnqdshjwbsqibshvrnvdcsadboaybesvrmbvybi,shrsvyqvsvybcsairhhsbqay
rvybi’hsmiqjosqvsijmyvsqomdbh;sqsdjobsrtsarohjebiqfdbsdbomvysjhsvybo
qvvqaybesvrsvybsujeedbsrtsvyjhsfdra ,sqoesvybsrvybisboesrtsvybsdjob
fbjomsdrrgbe,sjvsaqosjosqsurubovsfbstqhvbobesvrsqsyqigrro.sJvsjh
ayjbtdcsquromsmqddjbespyqdbhsvyqvsvyjhseinmmsjhsnhbe.sTrisvybo,surib
pyqdbhsqibsadrhbsirnoescrnsvyqoscrnsaqosgrhhjfdcsayqhbsqvsrobsvjub.sFnv
hgbiuspyqdbhsqibsorvsbzbicseqcsboarnovbibe;spyjdbscrnsuqc,svybo,scrn
unhvs jddsqddscrnsaqo.sQoesjtscrnsaqoorvs jddsvybusqddsqvsroab,scrn
unhvspjomsvybu,shrsvyqvsvybcsaqosfbsqtvbipqiehs jddbesqvscrnisdbjhnib.
Yboabsjvsjh,svyqvsqvsvjubhsdj bsvybhbsvybseinmm,sarubhsjovr
iblnjhjvjro.sRnisfrqvspqhstniojhybespjvysvyibbsrtsvybu.sVybstjihvsqoe
hbaroespbibshnaabhhtnddcseqivbe,sqoespbshqpsvybspyqdbhshvqmmbijomdc
inoojomsrtt,stbvvbibesfcsvybsboriurnhshjebdromsibhjhvqoabsrtsvybsvrpjom
einmm.sVybcspbibsaiqugbesdj bsuqdbtqavrihspjvysvybsayqjosqoesfqdd.sFnv
ngrostdjomjomsvybsvyjie,sjosvybsqavsrtsvrhhjomsrzbifrqiesvybsadnuhc
prrebosfdra ,sjvsaqnmyvsnoebisrobsrtsvybshbqvhsrtsvybsfrqv,sqoesjosqo
johvqovsvribsjvsrnvsqoesaqiijbesjvsqpqc,seirggjomsvybsrqihuqosjosvyb
frqv’hsfrvvrusqhsvybshbqvshdjestirusnoebisyju.sRosfrvyshjebhsvybshbq
aqubsjosqvsvybsprnoebesgdqo h,sfnvspbshvnttbesvprsrisvyibbseiqpbihsqoe
hyjivhsjo,sqoeshrshvrggbesvybsdbq hstrisvybsvjub.

Jvsyqesfbbosobxvsvrsjugrhhjfdbsvrseqivsvybhbseinmmbe-yqigrroh,spbibsjv
orvsvyqvsqhspbsqezqoabesjovrsvybsybie,srnispyqdb’hspqcsmibqvdc
ejujojhybe;suribrzbi,svyqvsqhspbspbovshvjddstnivybisqoestnivybistiru
vybsajianutbiboabsrtsaruurvjro,svybsejibtndsejhriebihshbbubespqojom.sHr
vyqvspybosqvsdqhvsvybskbi jomsyqigrroseibpsrnv,sqoesvybsvrpjomspyqdb
hjebpqchszqojhybe;svybo,spjvysvybsvqgbijomstriabsrtsyjhsgqivjom
urubovnu,spbsmdjebesfbvpbbosvprspyqdbhsjovrsvybsjoobiurhvsybqivsrtsvyb
hyrqd,sqhsjtstirushrubsurnovqjosvriibovspbsyqeshdjesjovrsqshbibob
zqddbcsdq b.sYbibsvybshvriuhsjosvybsirqijomsmdbohsfbvpbbosvybsrnvbiurhv
pyqdbh,spbibsybqiesfnvsorvstbdv.sJosvyjhsaboviqdsbxgqohbsvybshbq
gibhbovbesvyqvshurrvyshqvjo-dj bshnitqab,saqddbesqshdbb ,sgirenabesfc
vybshnfvdbsurjhvnibsvyirposrttsfcsvybspyqdbsjosyjhsuribslnjbvsurreh.
Cbh,spbspbibsorpsjosvyqvsboayqovbesaqduspyjaysvybcshqcsdni hsqvsvyb
ybqivsrtsbzbicsaruurvjro.sQoeshvjddsjosvybsejhviqavbesejhvqoabspb
fbybdesvybsvnundvhsrtsvybsrnvbisaroabovijasajiadbh,sqoeshqpshnaabhhjzb
grehsrtspyqdbh,sbjmyvsrisvbosjosbqay,shpjtvdcsmrjomsirnoesqoesirnoe,
dj bsundvjgdjbeshgqohsrtsyrihbhsjosqsijom;sqoeshrsadrhbdcshyrndebisvr
hyrndebi,svyqvsqsVjvqojasajianh-ijebisujmyvsbqhjdcsyqzbsrzbi-qiaybesvyb
ujeedbsrobh,sqoeshrsyqzbsmrobsirnoesrosvybjisfqa h.sRpjomsvrsvyb
ebohjvcsrtsvybsairpesrtsibgrhjomspyqdbh,suribsjuubejqvbdcshniirnoejom
vybsbufqcbesqxjhsrtsvybsybie,sorsgrhhjfdbsayqoabsrtsbhaqgbspqhsqv
gibhbovsqttriebesnh.sPbsunhvspqvaystrisqsfibqaysjosvybsdjzjomspqddsvyqv
ybuubesnhsjo;svybspqddsvyqvsyqesrodcsqeujvvbesnhsjosriebisvrshynvsnh
ng.s bbgjomsqvsvybsabovibsrtsvybsdq b,spbspbibsraaqhjroqddcszjhjvbesfc
huqddsvqubsarphsqoesaqdzbh;svybsprubosqoesayjdeibosrtsvyjhsirnvbesyrhv.

Orp,sjoadnhjzbsrtsvybsraaqhjroqdspjebsjovbizqdhsfbvpbbosvybsibzrdzjom
rnvbisajiadbh,sqoesjoadnhjzbsrtsvybshgqabhsfbvpbbosvybszqijrnhsgrehsjo
qocsrobsrtsvyrhbsajiadbh,svybsbovjibsqibqsqvsvyjhsknoavnib,sbufiqabesfc
vybspyrdbsundvjvneb,sunhvsyqzbsarovqjobesqvsdbqhvsvprsrisvyibbshlnqib
ujdbh.sQvsqocsiqvb—vyrnmysjoebbeshnaysqsvbhvsqvshnaysqsvjubsujmyvsfb
ebabgvjzb—hgrnvjomhsujmyvsfbsejharzbibestirusrnisdrpsfrqvsvyqvshbbube
gdqcjomsngsqdurhvstirusvybsijusrtsvybsyrijwro.sJsubovjrosvyjh
ajianuhvqoab,sfbaqnhb,sqhsjtsvybsarphsqoesaqdzbhsyqesfbbosgnigrhbdc
dra besngsjosvyjhsjoobiurhvstrde;sqoesqhsjtsvybspjebsbxvbovsrtsvybsybie
yqesyjvybivrsgibzbovbesvybustirusdbqiojomsvybsgibajhbsaqnhbsrtsjvh
hvrggjom;sri,sgrhhjfdc,sfbjomshrscrnom,snohrgyjhvjaqvbe,sqoesbzbicspqc
joorabovsqoesjobxgbijboabe;syrpbzbisjvsuqcsyqzbsfbbo,svybhbshuqddbi
pyqdbh—orpsqoesvyboszjhjvjomsrnisfbaqdubesfrqvstirusvybsuqimjosrtsvyb
dq b—bzjoabesqsproeirnhstbqidbhhobhhsqoesarotjeboab,srisbdhbsqshvjdd
fbayqiubesgqojaspyjaysjvspqhsjugrhhjfdbsorvsvrsuqizbdsqv.sDj b
yrnhbyrdesermhsvybcsaqubshonttdjomsirnoesnh,sijmyvsngsvrsrnismnopqdbh,
qoesvrnayjomsvybu;svjddsjvsqdurhvshbbubesvyqvshrubshgbddsyqeshneebodc
erubhvjaqvbesvybu.sLnbblnbmsgqvvbesvybjistribybqeh;sHvqifna shaiqvaybe
vybjisfqa hspjvysyjhsdqoab;sfnvstbqitndsrtsvybsarohblnboabh,strisvyb
vjubsibtiqjobestiruseqivjomsjv.

Fnvstqisfbobqvysvyjhsproeirnhspridesngrosvybshnitqab,sqorvybisqoeshvjdd
hviqombispridesubvsrnisbcbhsqhspbsmqwbesrzbisvybshjeb.sTri,shnhgboebe
josvyrhbspqvbicszqndvh,stdrqvbesvybstriuhsrtsvybsonihjomsurvybihsrtsvyb
pyqdbh,sqoesvyrhbsvyqvsfcsvybjisboriurnhsmjivyshbbubeshyrivdcsvrsfbarub
urvybih.sVybsdq b,sqhsJsyqzbsyjovbe,spqhsvrsqsarohjebiqfdbsebgvy
bxabbejomdcsviqohgqibov;sqoesqhsynuqosjotqovhspyjdbshna djomspjdd
aqdudcsqoestjxbedcsmqwbsqpqcstirusvybsfibqhv,sqhsjtsdbqejomsvpr
ejttbibovsdjzbhsqvsvybsvjub;sqoespyjdbscbvseiqpjomsurivqdsornijhyubov,
fbshvjddshgjijvnqddcstbqhvjomsngroshrubsnobqivydcsibujojhaboab;—bzboshr
ejesvybscrnomsrtsvybhbspyqdbhshbbusdrr jomsngsvrpqiehsnh,sfnvsorvsqv
nh,sqhsjtspbspbibsfnvsqsfjvsrtsMndtpbbesjosvybjisobp-frioshjmyv.
Tdrqvjomsrosvybjishjebh,svybsurvybihsqdhrshbbubeslnjbvdcsbcbjomsnh.sRob
rtsvybhbsdjvvdbsjotqovh,svyqvstirusabivqjoslnbbisvr bohshbbubesyqiedcsq
eqcsrde,sujmyvsyqzbsubqhnibeshrubstrnivbbostbbvsjosdbomvy,sqoeshrubshjx
tbbvsjosmjivy.sYbspqhsqsdjvvdbstijh c;svyrnmysqhscbvsyjhsfrecshbbube
haqiabscbvsibarzbibestirusvyqvsji hrubsgrhjvjrosjvsyqeshrsdqvbdc
raangjbesjosvybsuqvbioqdsibvjandb;spybib,svqjdsvrsybqe,sqoesqddsibqec
trisvybstjoqdshgijom,svybsnofriospyqdbsdjbhsfbovsdj bsqsVqivqi’hsfrp.
Vybsebdjaqvbshjeb-tjoh,sqoesvybsgqduhsrtsyjhstdn bh,shvjddstibhydc
ibvqjobesvybsgdqjvbesainugdbesqggbqiqoabsrtsqsfqfc’hsbqihsobpdcsqiijzbe
tirustribjmosgqivh.

“Djob!sdjob!”saijbesLnbblnbm,sdrr jomsrzbisvybsmnopqdb;s“yjustqhv!syju
tqhv!—Pyrsdjobsyju!sPyrshvina ?—Vprspyqdb;srobsfjm,srobsdjvvdb!”

“Pyqvsqjdhscb,suqo?”saijbesHvqifna .

“Drr -bsybib,”shqjesLnbblnbm,sgrjovjomserpo.

Qhspybosvybshvija bospyqdb,svyqvstirusvybsvnfsyqhsibbdbesrnvsynoeibeh
rtstqvyruhsrtsirgb;sqh,sqtvbisebbgshrnoejom,sybstdrqvhsngsqmqjo,sqoe
hyrphsvybshdqa bobesanidjomsdjobsfnrcqovdcsijhjomsqoeshgjiqddjom
vrpqiehsvybsqji;shrsorp,sHvqifna shqpsdromsarjdhsrtsvybsnufjdjaqdsarie
rtsUqequbsDbzjqvyqo,sfcspyjaysvybscrnomsanfshbbubeshvjddsvbvybibesvr
jvhsequ.sOrvshbderusjosvybsiqgjeszjajhhjvnebhsrtsvybsayqhb,svyjh
oqvniqdsdjob,spjvysvybsuqvbioqdsboesdrrhb,sfbarubhsbovqomdbespjvysvyb
ybugbosrob,shrsvyqvsvybsanfsjhsvybibfcsviqggbe.sHrubsrtsvybshnfvdbhv
hbaibvhsrtsvybshbqhshbbubesejzndmbesvrsnhsjosvyjhsboayqovbesgroe.sPb
hqpscrnomsDbzjqvyqosqurnihsjosvybsebbg.*

*Vybshgbiuspyqdb,sqhspjvysqddsrvybishgbajbhsrtsvybsDbzjqvyqo,sfnv
nodj bsurhvsrvybistjhy,sfibbehsjoejttbibovdcsqvsqddshbqhroh;sqtvbisq
mbhvqvjrospyjaysuqcsgirfqfdcsfbshbvserposqvsojobsurovyh,sgirenajomsfnv
robsqvsqsvjub;svyrnmysjoshrubstbps orposjohvqoabhsmjzjomsfjivysvrsqo
BhqnsqoesKqarf:—qsarovjomboacsgirzjebestrisjoshna djomsfcsvprsvbqvh,
anijrnhdcshjvnqvbe,srobsrosbqayshjebsrtsvybsqonh;sfnvsvybsfibqhvh
vybuhbdzbhsbxvboesngpqiehstirusvyqv.sPybosfcsayqoabsvybhbsgibajrnh
gqivhsjosqsonihjomspyqdbsqibsanvsfcsvybsynovbi’hsdqoab,svybsurvybi’h
grnijomsujd sqoesfdrresijzqddjomdcsejhardrnisvybshbqstrisireh.sVybsujd 
jhszbicshpbbvsqoesijay;sjvsyqhsfbbosvqhvbesfcsuqo;sjvsujmyvserspbdd
pjvyshviqpfbiijbh.sPybosrzbitdrpjomspjvysunvnqdsbhvbbu,svybspyqdbh
hqdnvbs_uribsyrujonu_.

Qoesvynh,svyrnmyshniirnoebesfcsajiadbsngrosajiadbsrtsarohvbioqvjrohsqoe
qttijmyvh,sejesvybhbsjohainvqfdbsaibqvnibhsqvsvybsabovibstibbdcsqoe
tbqidbhhdcsjoendmbsjosqddsgbqabtndsaroabioubovh;scbq,shbibobdcsibzbddbe
joseqddjqoabsqoesebdjmyv.sFnvsbzboshr,squjesvybsvrioqerbesQvdqovjasrt
ucsfbjom,sersJsuchbdtshvjddstrisbzbisaboviqddcsejhgrivsjosunvbsaqdu;
qoespyjdbsgroebirnhsgdqobvhsrtsnopqojomsprbsibzrdzbsirnoesub,sebbgserpo
qoesebbgsjodqoesvybibsJshvjddsfqvybsubsjosbvbioqdsujdeobhhsrtskrc.

Ubqopyjdb,sqhspbsvynhsdqcsboviqoabe,svybsraaqhjroqdshneebostiqovja
hgbavqadbhsjosvybsejhvqoabsbzjoabesvybsqavjzjvcsrtsvybsrvybisfrqvh,
hvjddsbomqmbesjoseinmmjomsvybspyqdbhsrosvybstirovjbisrtsvybsyrhv;sri
grhhjfdcsaqiicjomsrosvybspqispjvyjosvybstjihvsajiadb,spybibsqfnoeqoab
rtsirrusqoeshrubsarozbojbovsibvibqvhspbibsqttriebesvybu.sFnvsvybshjmyv
rtsvybsboiqmbeseinmmbespyqdbhsorpsqoesvybosfdjoedcseqivjomsvrsqoestir
qairhhsvybsajiadbh,spqhsorvyjomsvrspyqvsqvsdqhvsubvsrnisbcbh.sJvsjh
hrubvjubhsvybsanhvruspybostqhvsvrsqspyqdbsuribsvyqosaruurodcsgrpbitnd
qoesqdbiv,svrshbb svrsyquhvijomsyju,sqhsjvspbib,sfcshnoebijomsri
uqjujomsyjhsmjmqovjasvqjd-vboero.sJvsjhserobsfcseqivjomsqshyriv-yqoedbe
anvvjom-hgqeb,svrspyjaysjhsqvvqaybesqsirgbstrisyqndjomsjvsfqa sqmqjo.sQ
pyqdbsprnoebes(qhspbsqtvbipqiehsdbqiobe)sjosvyjhsgqiv,sfnvsorv
bttbavnqddc,sqhsjvshbbube,syqesfir bosqpqcstirusvybsfrqv,saqiicjom
qdromspjvysyjusyqdtsrtsvybsyqigrrosdjob;sqoesjosvybsbxviqriejoqicsqmroc
rtsvybsprnoe,sybspqhsorpseqhyjomsquromsvybsibzrdzjomsajiadbhsdj bsvyb
drobsurnovbesebhgbiqersQiorde,sqvsvybsfqvvdbsrtsHqiqvrmq,saqiicjom
ejhuqcspybibzbisybspbov.

Fnvsqmrojwjomsqhspqhsvybsprnoesrtsvyjhspyqdb,sqoesqosqggqddjom
hgbavqadbsbornmy,sqocspqc;scbvsvybsgbandjqisyriirispjvyspyjaysybshbbube
vrsjohgjibsvybsibhvsrtsvybsybie,spqhsrpjomsvrsqsaqnhbspyjaysqvstjihv
vybsjovbizbojomsejhvqoabsrfhanibestirusnh.sFnvsqvsdbomvyspbsgbiabjzbe
vyqvsfcsrobsrtsvybsnojuqmjoqfdbsqaajebovhsrtsvybstjhybic,svyjhspyqdb
yqesfbarubsbovqomdbesjosvybsyqigrro-djobsvyqvsybsvrpbe;sybsyqesqdhrsino
qpqcspjvysvybsanvvjom-hgqebsjosyju;sqoespyjdbsvybstibbsboesrtsvybsirgb
qvvqaybesvrsvyqvspbqgro,syqesgbiuqobovdcsaqnmyvsjosvybsarjdhsrtsvyb
yqigrro-djobsirnoesyjhsvqjd,svybsanvvjom-hgqebsjvhbdtsyqespri besdrrhb
tirusyjhstdbhy.sHrsvyqvsvriubovbesvrsuqeobhh,sybspqhsorpsayniojom
vyirnmysvybspqvbi,szjrdbovdcstdqjdjomspjvysyjhstdbxjfdbsvqjd,sqoe
vrhhjomsvybs bboshgqebsqfrnvsyju,sprnoejomsqoesuniebijomsyjhsrpo
aruiqebh.

Vyjhsvbiijtjasrfkbavshbbubesvrsibaqddsvybspyrdbsybiestirusvybji
hvqvjroqicstijmyv.sTjihv,svybspyqdbhstriujomsvybsuqimjosrtsrnisdq b
fbmqosvrsairpesqsdjvvdb,sqoesvnufdbsqmqjohvsbqaysrvybi,sqhsjtsdjtvbesfc
yqdtshgbovsfjddrphstirusqtqi;svybosvybsdq bsjvhbdtsfbmqostqjovdcsvr
ybqzbsqoeshpbdd;svybshnfuqijobsfijeqd-ayqufbihsqoesonihbijbhszqojhybe;
josuribsqoesuribsaroviqavjomsrifjvhsvybspyqdbhsjosvybsuribsaboviqd
ajiadbhsfbmqosvrshpjusjosvyja bojomsadnhvbih.sCbh,svybsdromsaqduspqh
ebgqivjom.sQsdrpsqezqoajomsynuspqhshrrosybqie;sqoesvybosdj bsvrsvyb
vnundvnrnhsuqhhbhsrtsfdra -jabspybosvybsmibqvsijzbisYnehrosfibq hsngsjo
Hgijom,svybsbovjibsyrhvsrtspyqdbhsaqubsvnufdjomsngrosvybjisjoobi
abovib,sqhsjtsvrsgjdbsvybuhbdzbhsngsjosrobsaruurosurnovqjo.sJohvqovdc
Hvqifna sqoesLnbblnbmsayqombesgdqabh;sHvqifna svq jomsvybshvbio.

“Rqih!sRqih!”sybsjovbohbdcspyjhgbibe,shbjwjomsvybsybdu—“mijgbscrni
rqih,sqoesadnvayscrnishrndh,sorp!sUcsMre,subo,shvqoesfc!sHyrzbsyjusrtt,
crnsLnbblnbm—vybspyqdbsvybib!—gija syju!—yjvsyju!sHvqoesng—hvqoesng,
qoeshvqcshr!sHgijom,subo—gndd,subo;sobzbisujoesvybjisfqa h—haiqgb
vybu!—haiqgbsqpqc!”

Vybsfrqvspqhsorpsqddsfnvskquubesfbvpbbosvprszqhvsfdqa sfnd h,sdbqzjomsq
oqiirpsEqieqobddbhsfbvpbbosvybjisdromsdbomvyh.sFnvsfcsebhgbiqvb
boebqzrispbsqvsdqhvshyrvsjovrsqsvbugriqicsrgbojom;svybosmjzjomspqc
iqgjedc,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsbqiobhvdcspqvayjomstrisqorvybisrnvdbv.
Qtvbisuqocshjujdqisyqji-fibqevysbhaqgbh,spbsqvsdqhvshpjtvdcsmdjebesjovr
pyqvsyqesknhvsfbbosrobsrtsvybsrnvbisajiadbh,sfnvsorpsairhhbesfcsiqoeru
pyqdbh,sqddszjrdbovdcsuq jomstrisrobsabovib.sVyjhsdna cshqdzqvjrospqh
aybqgdcsgniayqhbesfcsvybsdrhhsrtsLnbblnbm’hsyqv,spyr,spyjdbshvqoejomsjo
vybsfrphsvrsgija svybstnmjvjzbspyqdbh,syqesyjhsyqvsvq bosadbqostirusyjh
ybqesfcsvybsqji-beecsuqebsfcsvybshneebosvrhhjomsrtsqsgqjisrtsfirqe
tdn bhsadrhbsfc.

Ijrvrnhsqoesejhriebibesqhsvybsnojzbihqdsaruurvjrosorpspqh,sjvshrro
ibhrdzbesjvhbdtsjovrspyqvshbbubesqshchvbuqvjasurzbubov;strisyqzjom
adnugbesvrmbvybisqvsdqhvsjosrobsebohbsfrec,svybcsvybosibobpbesvybji
ropqiestdjmyvspjvysqnmubovbestdbbvobhh.sTnivybisgnihnjvspqhsnhbdbhh;
fnvsvybsfrqvhshvjddsdjombibesjosvybjispq bsvrsgja sngspyqvseinmmbe
pyqdbhsujmyvsfbseirggbesqhvbio,sqoesdj bpjhbsvrshbanibsrobspyjaysTdqh 
yqes jddbesqoespqjtbe.sVybspqjtsjhsqsgboorobesgrdb,svprsrisvyibbsrt
pyjaysqibsaqiijbesfcsbzbicsfrqv;sqoespyjay,spybosqeejvjroqdsmqubsjhsqv
yqoe,sqibsjohbivbesngijmyvsjovrsvybstdrqvjomsfrecsrtsqsebqespyqdb,sfrvy
vrsuqi sjvhsgdqabsrosvybshbq,sqoesqdhrsqhsvr bosrtsgijrisgrhhbhhjro,
hyrndesvybsfrqvhsrtsqocsrvybishyjgseiqpsobqi.

Vybsibhndvsrtsvyjhsdrpbijomspqhshrubpyqvsjddnhviqvjzbsrtsvyqvshqmqajrnh
hqcjomsjosvybsTjhybic,—vybsuribspyqdbhsvybsdbhhstjhy.sRtsqddsvyb
einmmbespyqdbhsrodcsrobspqhsaqgvnibe.sVybsibhvsarovijzbesvrsbhaqgbstri
vybsvjub,sfnvsrodcsvrsfbsvq bo,sqhspjddsybibqtvbisfbshbbo,sfcshrub
rvybisaiqtvsvyqosvybsGblnre.


AYQGVBIs88.sHayrrdhsqoesHayrrduqhvbih.

VybsgibzjrnhsayqgvbismqzbsqaarnovsrtsqosjuubohbsfrecsrisybiesrtsHgbiu
Pyqdbh,sqoesvybibspqhsqdhrsvybosmjzbosvybsgirfqfdbsaqnhbsjoenajomsvyrhb
zqhvsqmmibmqvjroh.

Orp,svyrnmyshnaysmibqvsfrejbhsqibsqvsvjubhsboarnovbibe,scbv,sqhsunhv
yqzbsfbboshbbo,sbzbosqvsvybsgibhbovseqc,shuqddsebvqaybesfqoehsqib
raaqhjroqddcsrfhbizbe,sbufiqajomstirusvpbovcsvrstjtvcsjoejzjenqdhsbqay.
Hnaysfqoehsqibs orposqhshayrrdh.sVybcsmbobiqddcsqibsrtsvprshrivh;svyrhb
arugrhbesqdurhvsbovjibdcsrtstbuqdbh,sqoesvyrhbsunhvbijomsorobsfnvscrnom
zjmrirnhsuqdbh,srisfnddh,sqhsvybcsqibstqujdjqidcsebhjmoqvbe.

Josaqzqdjbisqvvboeqoabsngrosvybshayrrdsrtstbuqdbh,scrnsjozqijqfdcshbbsq
uqdbsrtstnddsmirposuqmojvneb,sfnvsorvsrde;spyr,sngrosqocsqdqiu,sbzjoabh
yjhsmqddqovicsfcstqddjomsjosvybsibqisqoesarzbijomsvybstdjmyvsrtsyjh
dqejbh.sJosvinvy,svyjhsmbovdbuqosjhsqsdnxnijrnhsRvvruqo,shpjuujomsqfrnv
rzbisvybspqvbicspride,shniirnoejomdcsqaarugqojbesfcsqddsvybshrdqabhsqoe
boebqiubovhsrtsvybsyqibu.sVybsaroviqhvsfbvpbbosvyjhsRvvruqosqoesyjh
aroanfjobhsjhshvij jom;sfbaqnhb,spyjdbsybsjhsqdpqchsrtsvybsdqimbhv
dbzjqvyqojasgirgrivjroh,svybsdqejbh,sbzbosqvstnddsmirpvy,sqibsorvsurib
vyqosrob-vyjiesrtsvybsfnd srtsqosqzbiqmb-hjwbesuqdb.sVybcsqib
arugqiqvjzbdcsebdjaqvb,sjoebbe;sJseqibshqc,sorvsvrsbxabbesyqdtsqserwbo
cqiehsirnoesvybspqjhv.sObzbivybdbhh,sjvsaqoorvsfbsebojbe,svyqvsngrosvyb
pyrdbsvybcsqibsybibejvqijdcsbovjvdbesvrs_bosfrosgrjov_.

Jvsjhszbicsanijrnhsvrspqvaysvyjhsyqibusqoesjvhsdriesjosvybjisjoerdbov
iqufdjomh.sDj bstqhyjroqfdbh,svybcsqibstrisbzbisrosvybsurzbsjo
dbjhnibdcshbqiaysrtszqijbvc.sCrnsubbvsvybusrosvybsDjobsjosvjubstrisvyb
tnddstdrpbisrtsvybsBlnqvrijqdstbbejomshbqhro,syqzjomsknhvsibvniobe,
gbiyqgh,stirushgboejomsvybshnuubisjosvybsOrivybioshbqh,sqoeshrsaybqvjom
hnuubisrtsqddsnogdbqhqovspbqijobhhsqoespqiuvy.sFcsvybsvjubsvybcsyqzb
drnombesngsqoeserposvybsgiruboqebsrtsvybsBlnqvrisqpyjdb,svybcshvqivstri
vybsRijbovqdspqvbihsjosqovjajgqvjrosrtsvybsarrdshbqhrosvybib,sqoeshr
bzqebsvybsrvybisbxabhhjzbsvbugbiqvnibsrtsvybscbqi.

Pyboshbibobdcsqezqoajomsrosrobsrtsvybhbskrniobch,sjtsqocshviqomb
hnhgjajrnhshjmyvhsqibshbbo,sucsdriespyqdbs bbghsqspqicsbcbsrosyjh
jovbibhvjomstqujdc.sHyrndesqocsnopqiiqovqfdcsgbivscrnomsDbzjqvyqo
arujomsvyqvspqc,sgibhnubsvrseiqpsarotjebovjqddcsadrhbsvrsrobsrtsvyb
dqejbh,spjvyspyqvsgirejmjrnhstnicsvybsFqhyqpsqhhqjdhsyju,sqoesayqhbh
yjusqpqc!sYjmysvjubh,sjoebbe,sjtsnogijoajgdbescrnomsiq bhsdj bsyjusqib
vrsfbsgbiujvvbesvrsjozqebsvybshqoavjvcsrtserubhvjasfdjhh;svyrnmyser
pyqvsvybsFqhyqpspjdd,sybsaqoorvs bbgsvybsurhvsorvrijrnhsDrvyqijrsrnvsrt
yjhsfbe;stri,sqdqh!sqddstjhysfbesjosaruuro.sQhsqhyrib,svybsdqejbhsrtvbo
aqnhbsvybsurhvsvbiijfdbsenbdhsquromsvybjisijzqdsqeujibih;sknhvshrspjvy
vybspyqdbh,spyrshrubvjubhsarubsvrsebqedcsfqvvdb,sqoesqddstrisdrzb.sVybc
tboabspjvysvybjisdromsdrpbiskqph,shrubvjubhsdra jomsvybusvrmbvybi,sqoe
hrshvijzjomstrisvybshngibuqacsdj bsbd hsvyqvspqiijomdcsjovbipbqzbsvybji
qovdbih.sOrvsqstbpsqibsaqgvnibesyqzjomsvybsebbgshaqihsrtsvybhb
boarnovbih,—tniirpbesybqeh,sfir bosvbbvy,sharddrgbestjoh;sqoesjoshrub
johvqoabh,spiboaybesqoesejhdraqvbesurnvyh.

Fnvshnggrhjomsvybsjozqebisrtserubhvjasfdjhhsvrsfbvq bsyjuhbdtsqpqcsqv
vybstjihvsinhysrtsvybsyqibu’hsdrie,svybosjhsjvszbicsejzbivjomsvrspqvay
vyqvsdrie.sMbovdcsybsjohjonqvbhsyjhszqhvsfnd squromsvybusqmqjosqoe
ibzbdhsvybibsqpyjdb,shvjddsjosvqovqdjwjomszjajojvcsvrscrnomsDrvyqijr,
dj bsgjrnhsHrdrurosebzrnvdcsprihyjggjomsquromsyjhsvyrnhqoesaroanfjobh.
Miqovjomsrvybispyqdbhsvrsfbsjoshjmyv,svybstjhybiubospjddshbderusmjzb
ayqhbsvrsrobsrtsvybhbsMiqoesVni h;strisvybhbsMiqoesVni hsqibsvrrsdqzjhy
rtsvybjishvibomvy,sqoesyboabsvybjisnoavnrnhobhhsjhshuqdd.sQhstrisvyb
hrohsqoesvybseqnmyvbihsvybcsfbmbv,spyc,svyrhbshrohsqoeseqnmyvbihsunhv
vq bsaqibsrtsvybuhbdzbh;sqvsdbqhv,spjvysrodcsvybsuqvbioqdsybdg.sTri
dj bsabivqjosrvybisruojzrirnhsirzjomsdrzbihsvyqvsujmyvsfbsoqube,suc
DriesPyqdbsyqhsorsvqhvbstrisvybsonihbic,syrpbzbisunaystrisvybsfrpbi;
qoeshr,sfbjomsqsmibqvsviqzbddbi,sybsdbqzbhsyjhsqorocurnhsfqfjbhsqdd
rzbisvybspride;sbzbicsfqfcsqosbxrvja.sJosmrresvjub,sobzbivybdbhh,sqh
vybsqiernisrtscrnvysebadjobh;sqhscbqihsqoesenughsjoaibqhb;sqh
ibtdbavjrosdboehsybishrdbuosgqnhbh;sjoshyriv,sqhsqsmbobiqdsdqhhjvneb
rzbivq bhsvybshqvbesVni ;svybosqsdrzbsrtsbqhbsqoeszjivnbshnggdqovhsvyb
drzbstrisuqjeboh;srnisRvvruqosbovbihsngrosvybsjugrvbov,sibgbovqov,
qeurojvricshvqmbsrtsdjtb,strihpbqih,sejhfqoehsvybsyqibu,sqoesmirposvr
qosbxbugdqic,shnd csrdeshrnd,smrbhsqfrnvsqddsqdrobsquromsvybsubijejqoh
qoesgqiqddbdhshqcjomsyjhsgiqcbih,sqoespqiojomsbqayscrnomsDbzjqvyqostiru
yjhsqurirnhsbiirih.

Orp,sqhsvybsyqibusrtspyqdbhsjhsaqddbesfcsvybstjhybiubosqshayrrd,shrsjh
vybsdriesqoesuqhvbisrtsvyqvshayrrdsvbayojaqddcs orposqhsvyb
hayrrduqhvbi.sJvsjhsvybibtribsorvsjoshvijavsayqiqavbi,syrpbzbi
qeujiqfdcshqvjijaqd,svyqvsqtvbismrjomsvrshayrrdsyjuhbdt,sybshyrndesvybo
mrsqfirqesjoandaqvjomsorvspyqvsybsdbqiobesvybib,sfnvsvybstrddcsrtsjv.
Yjhsvjvdb,shayrrduqhvbi,sprndeszbicsoqvniqddcshbbusebijzbestirusvyb
oqubsfbhvrpbesngrosvybsyqibusjvhbdt,sfnvshrubsyqzbshniujhbesvyqvsvyb
uqospyrstjihvsvynhsbovjvdbesvyjhshrivsrtsRvvruqospyqdb,sunhvsyqzbsibqe
vybsuburjihsrtsZjeral,sqoesjotriubesyjuhbdtspyqvshrivsrtsq
arnovic-hayrrduqhvbisvyqvstqurnhsTiboayuqospqhsjosyjhscrnombiseqch,sqoe
pyqvspqhsvybsoqvnibsrtsvyrhbsraandvsdbhhrohsybsjoandaqvbesjovrshrubsrt
yjhsgngjdh.

Vybshqubshbadnebeobhhsqoesjhrdqvjrosvrspyjaysvybshayrrduqhvbispyqdb
fbvq bhsyjuhbdtsjosyjhsqezqoajomscbqih,sjhsvinbsrtsqddsqmbesHgbiu
Pyqdbh.sQdurhvsnojzbihqddc,sqsdrobspyqdb—qhsqshrdjvqicsDbzjqvyqosjh
aqddbe—girzbhsqosqoajbovsrob.sDj bszbobiqfdbsurhh-fbqiebesEqojbdsFrrob,
ybspjddsyqzbsorsrobsobqisyjusfnvsOqvnibsybihbdt;sqoesybisybsvq bhsvr
pjtbsjosvybspjdebiobhhsrtspqvbih,sqoesvybsfbhvsrtspjzbhshybsjh,svyrnmy
hybs bbghshrsuqocsurrecshbaibvh.

Vybshayrrdhsarugrhjomsorobsfnvscrnomsqoeszjmrirnhsuqdbh,sgibzjrnhdc
ubovjrobe,srttbisqshviromsaroviqhvsvrsvybsyqibushayrrdh.sTrispyjdb
vyrhbstbuqdbspyqdbhsqibsayqiqavbijhvjaqddcsvjuje,svybscrnomsuqdbh,sri
trivc-fqiibd-fnddh,sqhsvybcsaqddsvybu,sqibsfcstqisvybsurhvsgnmoqajrnh
rtsqddsDbzjqvyqoh,sqoesgirzbifjqddcsvybsurhvseqombirnhsvrsboarnovbi;
bxabgvjomsvyrhbsproeirnhsmibc-ybqebe,smijwwdbespyqdbh,shrubvjubhsubv,
qoesvybhbspjddstjmyvscrnsdj bsmijustjboehsbxqhgbiqvbesfcsqsgboqdsmrnv.

VybsTrivc-fqiibd-fnddshayrrdhsqibsdqimbisvyqosvybsyqibushayrrdh.sDj bsq
urfsrtscrnomsarddbmjqoh,svybcsqibstnddsrtstjmyv,stno,sqoespja beobhh,
vnufdjomsirnoesvybspridesqvshnaysqsiba dbhh,sirddja jomsiqvb,svyqvsor
ginebovsnoebipijvbisprndesjohnibsvybusqocsuribsvyqosybsprndesqsijrvrnh
dqesqvsCqdbsrisYqizqie.sVybcshrrosibdjolnjhysvyjhsvnifndboabsvyrnmy,
qoespybosqfrnvsvyibb-trnivyhsmirpo,sfibq sng,sqoeshbgqiqvbdcsmrsqfrnv
joslnbhvsrtshbvvdbubovh,svyqvsjh,syqibuh.

Qorvybisgrjovsrtsejttbiboabsfbvpbbosvybsuqdbsqoestbuqdbshayrrdhsjh
hvjddsuribsayqiqavbijhvjasrtsvybshbxbh.sHqcscrnshvij bsq
Trivc-fqiibd-fndd—grrisebzjd!sqddsyjhsaruiqebhslnjvsyju.sFnvshvij bsq
ubufbisrtsvybsyqibushayrrd,sqoesybisarugqojrohshpjusqirnoesybispjvy
bzbicsvr bosrtsaroabio,shrubvjubhsdjombijomshrsobqisybisqoeshrsdrom,sqh
vybuhbdzbhsvrstqddsqsgibc.


AYQGVBIs89.sTqhv-TjhysqoesDrrhb-Tjhy.

Vybsqddnhjrosvrsvybspqjtsqoespqjt-grdbhsjosvybsdqhvsayqgvbisfnvsrob,
obabhhjvqvbhshrubsqaarnovsrtsvybsdqphsqoesibmndqvjrohsrtsvybspyqdb
tjhybic,srtspyjaysvybspqjtsuqcsfbsebbubesvybsmiqoeshcufrdsqoesfqemb.

Jvstiblnbovdcsyqggbohsvyqvspyboshbzbiqdshyjghsqibsainjhjomsjosarugqoc,
qspyqdbsuqcsfbshvina sfcsrobszbhhbd,svybosbhaqgb,sqoesfbstjoqddcs jddbe
qoesaqgvnibesfcsqorvybiszbhhbd;sqoesybibjosqibsjoejibavdcsarugijhbe
uqocsujorisarovjomboajbh,sqddsgqivq jomsrtsvyjhsrobsmiqoestbqvnib.sTri
bxqugdb,—qtvbisqspbqicsqoesgbijdrnhsayqhbsqoesaqgvnibsrtsqspyqdb,svyb
frecsuqcsmbvsdrrhbstirusvybshyjgsfcsibqhrosrtsqszjrdbovshvriu;sqoe
eijtvjomstqisqpqcsvrsdbbpqie,sfbsibvq bosfcsqshbaroespyqdbi,spyr,sjosq
aqdu,shonmdcsvrphsjvsqdromhjeb,spjvyrnvsijh srtsdjtbsrisdjob.sVynhsvyb
urhvszbxqvjrnhsqoeszjrdbovsejhgnvbhsprndesrtvbosqijhbsfbvpbbosvyb
tjhybiubo,spbibsvybibsorvshrubspijvvbosrisnopijvvbo,snojzbihqd,
noejhgnvbesdqpsqggdjaqfdbsvrsqddsaqhbh.

Gbiyqghsvybsrodcstriuqdspyqdjomsarebsqnvyrijwbesfcsdbmjhdqvjzb
boqavubov,spqhsvyqvsrtsYrddqoe.sJvspqhsebaibbesfcsvybsHvqvbh-Mbobiqdsjo
Q.E.s1695.sFnvsvyrnmysorsrvybisoqvjrosyqhsbzbisyqesqocspijvvbospyqdjom
dqp,scbvsvybsQubijaqostjhybiubosyqzbsfbbosvybjisrposdbmjhdqvrihsqoe
dqpcbihsjosvyjhsuqvvbi.sVybcsyqzbsgirzjebesqshchvbuspyjaystrisvbihb
arugibybohjzbobhhshnigqhhbhsKnhvjojqo’hsGqoebavhsqoesvybsFc-dqphsrtsvyb
AyjobhbsHrajbvcstrisvybsHnggibhhjrosrtsUbeedjomspjvysrvybisGbrgdb’h
Fnhjobhh.sCbh;svybhbsdqphsujmyvsfbsbomiqzbosrosqsLnbbosQoob’hstqivyjom,
risvybsfqifsrtsqsyqigrro,sqoespriosirnoesvybsoba ,shrshuqddsqibsvybc.

J.sQsTqhv-Tjhysfbdromhsvrsvybsgqivcstqhvsvrsjv.

JJ.sQsDrrhb-Tjhysjhstqjismqubstrisqocfrecspyrsaqoshrrobhvsaqvaysjv.

Fnvspyqvsgdqchsvybsujhayjbtspjvysvyjhsuqhvbidcsarebsjhsvybsqeujiqfdb
fibzjvcsrtsjv,spyjaysobabhhjvqvbhsqszqhvszrdnubsrtsaruubovqijbhsvr
bxgrnoesjv.

Tjihv:sPyqvsjhsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sQdjzbsrisebqesqstjhysjhsvbayojaqddcstqhv,
pybosjvsjhsaroobavbespjvysqosraangjbeshyjgsrisfrqv,sfcsqocsubejnusqv
qddsarovirddqfdbsfcsvybsraangqovsrisraangqovh,—qsuqhv,sqosrqi,sq
ojob-joaysaqfdb,sqsvbdbmiqgyspjib,srisqshviqoesrtsarfpbf,sjvsjhsqddsvyb
hqub.sDj bpjhbsqstjhysjhsvbayojaqddcstqhvspybosjvsfbqihsqspqjt,srisqoc
rvybisibarmojhbeshcufrdsrtsgrhhbhhjro;shrsdromsqhsvybsgqivcspqjtjomsjv
gdqjodcsbzjoabsvybjisqfjdjvcsqvsqocsvjubsvrsvq bsjvsqdromhjeb,sqhspbdd
qhsvybjisjovbovjroshrsvrser.

Vybhbsqibshajbovjtjasaruubovqijbh;sfnvsvybsaruubovqijbhsrtsvybspyqdbubo
vybuhbdzbhshrubvjubhsarohjhvsjosyqiespriehsqoesyqiebis ora h—vyb
Ar b-ngro-Djvvdbvrosrtsvybstjhv.sVinb,squromsvybsuribsngijmyvsqoe
yroriqfdbspyqdbubosqddrpqoabhsqibsqdpqchsuqebstrisgbandjqisaqhbh,spybib
jvsprndesfbsqosrnviqmbrnhsuriqdsjoknhvjabstrisrobsgqivcsvrsadqju
grhhbhhjrosrtsqspyqdbsgibzjrnhdcsayqhbesris jddbesfcsqorvybisgqivc.sFnv
rvybihsqibsfcsorsubqohshrshaingndrnh.

Hrubstjtvcscbqihsqmrsvybibspqhsqsanijrnhsaqhbsrtspyqdb-virzbisdjvjmqvbe
josBomdqoe,spybibjosvybsgdqjovjtthshbvstrivysvyqvsqtvbisqsyqiesayqhbsrt
qspyqdbsjosvybsOrivybioshbqh;sqoespybosjoebbesvybcs(vybsgdqjovjtth)syqe
hnaabbebesjosyqigrrojomsvybstjhy;svybcspbibsqvsdqhv,svyirnmysgbijdsrt
vybjisdjzbh,srfdjmbesvrstrihq bsorvsrodcsvybjisdjobh,sfnvsvybjisfrqv
jvhbdt.sNdvjuqvbdcsvybsebtboeqovhs(vybsaibpsrtsqorvybishyjg)saqubsng
pjvysvybspyqdb,shvina ,s jddbe,shbjwbe,sqoestjoqddcsqggirgijqvbesjv
fbtribsvybszbicsbcbhsrtsvybsgdqjovjtth.sQoespybosvyrhbsebtboeqovhspbib
iburohviqvbespjvy,svybjisaqgvqjoshoqggbesyjhstjombihsjosvybsgdqjovjtth’
vbbvy,sqoesqhhnibesvybusvyqvsfcspqcsrtserxrdrmcsvrsvybsebbesybsyqe
erob,sybsprndesorpsibvqjosvybjisdjob,syqigrroh,sqoesfrqv,spyjaysyqe
ibuqjobesqvvqaybesvrsvybspyqdbsqvsvybsvjubsrtsvybshbjwnib.sPybibtrib
vybsgdqjovjtthsorpshnbestrisvybsibarzbicsrtsvybszqdnbsrtsvybjispyqdb,
djob,syqigrroh,sqoesfrqv.

Ui.sBih jobspqhsarnohbdstrisvybsebtboeqovh;sDriesBddbofrirnmyspqhsvyb
knemb.sJosvybsarnihbsrtsvybsebtboab,svybspjvvcsBih jobspbovsrosvr
jddnhviqvbsyjhsgrhjvjro,sfcsqddnejomsvrsqsibabovsaiju.saro.saqhb,
pybibjosqsmbovdbuqo,sqtvbisjoszqjosvicjomsvrsfijedbsyjhspjtb’h
zjajrnhobhh,syqesqvsdqhvsqfqoerobesybisngrosvybshbqhsrtsdjtb;sfnvsjo
vybsarnihbsrtscbqih,sibgbovjomsrtsvyqvshvbg,sybsjohvjvnvbesqosqavjrosvr
ibarzbisgrhhbhhjrosrtsybi.sBih jobspqhsrosvybsrvybishjeb;sqoesybsvybo
hnggrivbesjvsfcshqcjom,svyqvsvyrnmysvybsmbovdbuqosyqesrijmjoqddc
yqigrrobesvybsdqec,sqoesyqesroabsyqesybistqhv,sqoesrodcsfcsibqhrosrt
vybsmibqvshvibhhsrtsybisgdnomjomszjajrnhobhh,syqesqvsdqhvsqfqoerobe
ybi;scbvsqfqoerosybisybseje,shrsvyqvshybsfbaqubsqsdrrhb-tjhy;sqoe
vybibtribspybosqshnfhblnbovsmbovdbuqosib-yqigrrobesybi,svybsdqecsvybo
fbaqubsvyqvshnfhblnbovsmbovdbuqo’hsgirgbivc,sqdromspjvyspyqvbzbi
yqigrrosujmyvsyqzbsfbbostrnoeshvja jomsjosybi.

OrpsjosvybsgibhbovsaqhbsBih jobsarovboebesvyqvsvybsbxqugdbhsrtsvyb
pyqdbsqoesvybsdqecspbibsibajgiraqddcsjddnhviqvjzbsrtsbqaysrvybi.

Vybhbsgdbqejomh,sqoesvybsarnovbisgdbqejomh,sfbjomsendcsybqie,svybszbic
dbqiobesknembsjoshbvsvbiuhsebajebe,svrspjv,—Vyqvsqhstrisvybsfrqv,syb
qpqiebesjvsvrsvybsgdqjovjtth,sfbaqnhbsvybcsyqesubibdcsqfqoerobesjvsvr
hqzbsvybjisdjzbh;sfnvsvyqvspjvysibmqiesvrsvybsarovirzbivbespyqdb,
yqigrroh,sqoesdjob,svybcsfbdrombesvrsvybsebtboeqovh;svybspyqdb,sfbaqnhb
jvspqhsqsDrrhb-Tjhysqvsvybsvjubsrtsvybstjoqdsaqgvnib;sqoesvybsyqigrroh
qoesdjobsfbaqnhbspybosvybstjhysuqebsrttspjvysvybu,sjvs(vybstjhy)
qalnjibesqsgirgbivcsjosvyrhbsqivjadbh;sqoesyboabsqocfrecspyrsqtvbipqieh
vrr svybstjhysyqesqsijmyvsvrsvybu.sOrpsvybsebtboeqovhsqtvbipqiehsvrr 
vybstjhy;sbimr,svybsqtribhqjesqivjadbhspbibsvybjih.

Qsaruurosuqosdrr jomsqvsvyjhsebajhjrosrtsvybszbicsdbqiobesKnemb,sujmyv
grhhjfdcsrfkbavsvrsjv.sFnvsgdrnmybesngsvrsvybsgijuqicsira srtsvyb
uqvvbi,svybsvprsmibqvsgijoajgdbhsdqjeserposjosvybsvpjospyqdjomsdqph
gibzjrnhdcslnrvbe,sqoesqggdjbesqoesbdnajeqvbesfcsDriesBddbofrirnmysjo
vybsqfrzbsajvbesaqhb;svybhbsvprsdqphsvrnayjomsTqhv-TjhysqoesDrrhb-Tjhy,
Jshqc,spjdd,srosibtdbavjro,sfbstrnoesvybstnoequbovqdhsrtsqddsynuqo
knijhgineboab;strisorvpjvyhvqoejomsjvhsarugdjaqvbesviqabicsrt
handgvnib,svybsVbugdbsrtsvybsDqp,sdj bsvybsVbugdbsrtsvybsGyjdjhvjobh,
yqhsfnvsvprsgirghsvrshvqoesro.

Jhsjvsorvsqshqcjomsjosbzbicsrob’hsurnvy,sGrhhbhhjrosjhsyqdtsrtsvybsdqp:
vyqvsjh,sibmqiedbhhsrtsyrpsvybsvyjomsaqubsjovrsgrhhbhhjro?sFnvsrtvbo
grhhbhhjrosjhsvybspyrdbsrtsvybsdqp.sPyqvsqibsvybshjobphsqoeshrndhsrt
InhhjqoshbithsqoesIbgnfdjaqoshdqzbhsfnvsTqhv-Tjhy,spybibrtsgrhhbhhjro
jhsvybspyrdbsrtsvybsdqp?sPyqvsvrsvybsiqgqajrnhsdqoedriesjhsvybspjerp’h
dqhvsujvbsfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sPyqvsjhscroebisnoebvbavbeszjddqjo’hsuqifdb
uqohjrospjvysqserri-gdqvbstrisqspqjt;spyqvsjhsvyqvsfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?
PyqvsjhsvybsinjornhsejharnovspyjaysUriebaqj,svybsfir bi,smbvhstirusgrri
Prbfbmrob,svybsfqo ingv,srosqsdrqosvrs bbgsPrbfbmrob’hstqujdcstiru
hvqizqvjro;spyqvsjhsvyqvsinjornhsejharnovsfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sPyqvsjhsvyb
QiayfjhyrgsrtsHqzbhrnd’hsjoarubsrts£100,000shbjwbestirusvybshaqovsfibqe
qoesaybbhbsrtsynoeibehsrtsvyrnhqoehsrtsfir bo-fqa besdqfribihs(qddshnib
rtsybqzbospjvyrnvsqocsrtsHqzbhrnd’hsybdg)spyqvsjhsvyqvsmdrfndqi
£100,000sfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sPyqvsqibsvybsEn bsrtsEnoebi’hsybibejvqic
vrpohsqoesyqudbvhsfnvsTqhv-Tjhy?sPyqvsvrsvyqvsibernfvbesyqigrrobbi,
KryosFndd,sjhsgrrisJibdqoe,sfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sPyqvsvrsvyqvsqgrhvrdja
dqoabi,sFirvybisKroqvyqo,sjhsVbxqhsfnvsqsTqhv-Tjhy?sQoesaroabiojomsqdd
vybhb,sjhsorvsGrhhbhhjrosvybspyrdbsrtsvybsdqp?

FnvsjtsvybseravijobsrtsTqhv-Tjhysfbsgibvvcsmbobiqddcsqggdjaqfdb,svyb
 joeibeseravijobsrtsDrrhb-Tjhysjhshvjddsuribspjebdcshr.sVyqvsjh
jovbioqvjroqddcsqoesnojzbihqddcsqggdjaqfdb.

PyqvspqhsQubijaqsjos1492sfnvsqsDrrhb-Tjhy,sjospyjaysArdnufnhshvina svyb
Hgqojhyshvqoeqiesfcspqcsrtspqjtjomsjvstrisyjhsircqdsuqhvbisqoe
ujhvibhh?sPyqvspqhsGrdqoesvrsvybsAwqi?sPyqvsMibbabsvrsvybsVni ?sPyqv
JoejqsvrsBomdqoe?sPyqvsqvsdqhvspjddsUbxjarsfbsvrsvybsNojvbesHvqvbh?sQdd
Drrhb-Tjhy.

PyqvsqibsvybsIjmyvhsrtsUqosqoesvybsDjfbivjbhsrtsvybsPridesfnv
Drrhb-Tjhy?sPyqvsqddsubo’hsujoehsqoesrgjojrohsfnvsDrrhb-Tjhy?sPyqvsjh
vybsgijoajgdbsrtsibdjmjrnhsfbdjbtsjosvybusfnvsqsDrrhb-Tjhy?sPyqvsvrsvyb
rhvbovqvjrnhshunmmdjomszbifqdjhvhsqibsvybsvyrnmyvhsrtsvyjo bihsfnv
Drrhb-Tjhy?sPyqvsjhsvybsmibqvsmdrfbsjvhbdtsfnvsqsDrrhb-Tjhy?sQoespyqv
qibscrn,sibqebi,sfnvsqsDrrhb-TjhysqoesqsTqhv-Tjhy,svrr?


AYQGVBIs90.sYbqehsrisVqjdh.

“Ebsfqdboqszbirshnttjajv,shjsibxsyqfbqvsaqgnv,sbvsibmjoqsaqnequ.”
_Fiqavro,sd.s3,sa.s3._

Dqvjostirusvybsfrr hsrtsvybsDqphsrtsBomdqoe,spyjaysvq bosqdromspjvysvyb
arovbxv,subqoh,svyqvsrtsqddspyqdbhsaqgvnibesfcsqocfrecsrosvybsarqhvsrt
vyqvsdqoe,svybs jom,sqhsYroriqicsMiqoesYqigrrobbi,sunhvsyqzbsvybsybqe,
qoesvybsLnbbosfbsibhgbavtnddcsgibhbovbespjvysvybsvqjd.sQsejzjhjro
pyjay,sjosvybspyqdb,sjhsunaysdj bsyqdzjomsqosqggdb;svybibsjhsor
jovbiubejqvbsibuqjoebi.sOrpsqhsvyjhsdqp,snoebisqsurejtjbestriu,sjhsvr
vyjhseqcsjostriabsjosBomdqoe;sqoesqhsjvsrttbihsjoszqijrnhsibhgbavhsq
hviqombsqoruqdcsvrnayjomsvybsmbobiqdsdqpsrtsTqhvsqoesDrrhb-Tjhy,sjvsjh
ybibsvibqvbesrtsjosqshbgqiqvbsayqgvbi,srosvybshqubsarnivbrnhsgijoajgdb
vyqvsgirugvhsvybsBomdjhysiqjdpqchsvrsfbsqvsvybsbxgbohbsrtsqshbgqiqvb
aqi,shgbajqddcsibhbizbestrisvybsqaaruureqvjrosrtsircqdvc.sJosvybstjihv
gdqab,sjosanijrnhsgirrtsrtsvybstqavsvyqvsvybsqfrzb-ubovjrobesdqpsjh
hvjddsjostriab,sJsgirabbesvrsdqcsfbtribscrnsqsajianuhvqoabsvyqv
yqggbobespjvyjosvybsdqhvsvprscbqih.

JvshbbuhsvyqvshrubsyrobhvsuqijobihsrtsErzbi,srisHqoepjay,srishrubsrob
rtsvybsAjolnbsGrivh,syqesqtvbisqsyqiesayqhbshnaabbebesjos jddjomsqoe
fbqayjomsqstjobspyqdbspyjaysvybcsyqesrijmjoqddcsebhaijbesqtqisrttstiru
vybshyrib.sOrpsvybsAjolnbsGrivhsqibsgqivjqddcsrishrubyrpsnoebisvyb
knijhejavjrosrtsqshrivsrtsgrdjabuqosrisfbqedb,saqddbesqsDriesPqiebo.
Yrdejomsvybsrttjabsejibavdcstirusvybsairpo,sJsfbdjbzb,sqddsvybsircqd
burdnubovhsjoajebovsvrsvybsAjolnbsGrivsvbiijvrijbhsfbarubsfcsqhhjmoubov
yjh.sFcshrubspijvbihsvyjhsrttjabsjhsaqddbesqshjobanib.sFnvsorvshr.
FbaqnhbsvybsDriesPqiebosjhsfnhjdcsbugdrcbesqvsvjubhsjostrffjomsyjh
gbilnjhjvbh;spyjaysqibsyjhsayjbtdcsfcszjivnbsrtsvyqvshqubstrffjomsrt
vybu.

Orpspybosvybhbsgrrishno-fniovsuqijobih,sfqib-trrvbe,sqoespjvysvybji
virphbihsirddbesyjmysngsrosvybjisbbdcsdbmh,syqespbqijdcsyqndbesvybji
tqvstjhysyjmysqoeseic,sgirujhjomsvybuhbdzbhsqsmrres£150stirusvyb
gibajrnhsrjdsqoesfrob;sqoesjostqovqhcshjggjomsiqibsvbqspjvysvybji
pjzbh,sqoesmrresqdbspjvysvybjisairojbh,sngrosvybshvibomvysrtsvybji
ibhgbavjzbshyqibh;sngshvbghsqszbicsdbqiobesqoesurhvsAyijhvjqosqoe
ayqijvqfdbsmbovdbuqo,spjvysqsargcsrtsFdqa hvrobsnoebisyjhsqiu;sqoe
dqcjomsjvsngrosvybspyqdb’hsybqe,sybshqch—“Yqoehsrtt!svyjhstjhy,suc
uqhvbih,sjhsqsTqhv-Tjhy.sJshbjwbsjvsqhsvybsDriesPqiebo’h.”sNgrosvyjh
vybsgrrisuqijobihsjosvybjisibhgbavtndsarohvbioqvjro—hrsvindc
Bomdjhy— orpjomsorvspyqvsvrshqc,stqddsvrszjmrirnhdcshaiqvayjomsvybji
ybqehsqddsirnoe;subqopyjdbsinbtnddcsmdqoajomstirusvybspyqdbsvrsvyb
hviqombi.sFnvsvyqvsejesjosorpjhbsuboesvybsuqvvbi,srisqvsqddshrtvbosvyb
yqiesybqivsrtsvybsdbqiobesmbovdbuqospjvysvybsargcsrtsFdqa hvrob.sQv
dbomvysrobsrtsvybu,sqtvbisdromshaiqvayjomsqfrnvstrisyjhsjebqh,suqeb
frdesvrshgbq ,

“Gdbqhb,shji,spyrsjhsvybsDriesPqiebo?”

“VybsEn b.”

“Fnvsvybsen bsyqesorvyjomsvrserspjvysvq jomsvyjhstjhy?”

“Jvsjhsyjh.”

“Pbsyqzbsfbbosqvsmibqvsvirnfdb,sqoesgbijd,sqoeshrubsbxgbohb,sqoesjhsqdd
vyqvsvrsmrsvrsvybsEn b’hsfbobtjv;spbsmbvvjomsorvyjomsqvsqddstrisrni
gqjohsfnvsrnisfdjhvbih?”

“Jvsjhsyjh.”

“JhsvybsEn bshrszbicsgrrisqhsvrsfbstriabesvrsvyjhsebhgbiqvbsurebsrt
mbvvjomsqsdjzbdjyrre?”

“Jvsjhsyjh.”

“Jsvyrnmyvsvrsibdjbzbsucsrdesfbe-ijeebosurvybisfcsgqivsrtsucshyqibsrt
vyjhspyqdb.”

“Jvsjhsyjh.”

“Pro’vsvybsEn bsfbsarovbovspjvysqslnqivbisrisqsyqdt?”

“Jvsjhsyjh.”

Josqsprie,svybspyqdbspqhshbjwbesqoeshrde,sqoesyjhsMiqabsvybsEn bsrt
Pbddjomvrosibabjzbesvybsurobc.sVyjo jomsvyqvszjbpbesjoshrubsgqivjandqi
djmyvh,svybsaqhbsujmyvsfcsqsfqibsgrhhjfjdjvcsjoshrubshuqddsebmibbsfb
ebbube,snoebisvybsajianuhvqoabh,sqsiqvybisyqiesrob,sqosyrobhvsadbimcuqo
rtsvybsvrposibhgbavtnddcsqeeibhhbesqsorvbsvrsyjhsMiqab,sfbmmjomsyjusvr
vq bsvybsaqhbsrtsvyrhbsnotrivnoqvbsuqijobihsjovrstnddsarohjebiqvjro.sVr
pyjaysucsDriesEn bsjoshnfhvqoabsibgdjbes(frvysdbvvbihspbibsgnfdjhybe)
vyqvsybsyqesqdibqecserobshr,sqoesibabjzbesvybsurobc,sqoesprndesfb
rfdjmbesvrsvybsibzbiboesmbovdbuqosjtstrisvybstnvnibsybs(vybsibzbiboe
mbovdbuqo)sprndesebadjobsubeedjomspjvysrvybisgbrgdb’hsfnhjobhh.sJhsvyjh
vybshvjddsujdjvqovsrdesuqo,shvqoejomsqvsvybsariobihsrtsvybsvyibb
 jomeruh,srosqddsyqoehsarbiajomsqduhsrtsfbmmqih?

JvspjddsibqejdcsfbshbbosvyqvsjosvyjhsaqhbsvybsqddbmbesijmyvsrtsvybsEn b
vrsvybspyqdbspqhsqsebdbmqvbesrobstirusvybsHrzbibjmo.sPbsunhvsobbeh
jolnjibsvybosrospyqvsgijoajgdbsvybsHrzbibjmosjhsrijmjoqddcsjozbhvbe
pjvysvyqvsijmyv.sVybsdqpsjvhbdtsyqhsqdibqecsfbboshbvstrivy.sFnvsGdrpero
mjzbhsnhsvybsibqhrostrisjv.sHqchsGdrpero,svybspyqdbshrsaqnmyvsfbdromh
vrsvybs jomsqoesLnbbo,s“fbaqnhbsrtsjvhshngbijrisbxabddboab.”sQoesfcsvyb
hrnoebhvsaruubovqvrihsvyjhsyqhsbzbisfbbosybdesqsarmbovsqimnubovsjoshnay
uqvvbih.

Fnvspycshyrndesvybs jomsyqzbsvybsybqe,sqoesvybsLnbbosvybsvqjd?sQsibqhro
trisvyqv,scbsdqpcbih!

Josyjhsvibqvjhbsros“Lnbbo-Mrde,”srisLnbbo-gjourobc,sqosrdes jom’hsFboay
qnvyri,srobsPjddjqusGicoob,svynhsejharnihbvy:s“CbsvqjdsjhscbsLnbbo’h,
vyqvscbsLnbbo’hspqieirfbsuqcsfbshnggdjbespjvyscbspyqdbfrob.”sOrpsvyjh
pqhspijvvbosqvsqsvjubspybosvybsfdqa sdjufbisfrobsrtsvybsMibbodqoesri
Ijmyvspyqdbspqhsdqimbdcsnhbesjosdqejbh’sfrejabh.sFnvsvyjhshqubsfrobsjh
orvsjosvybsvqjd;sjvsjhsjosvybsybqe,spyjaysjhsqshqesujhvq bstrisq
hqmqajrnhsdqpcbisdj bsGicoob.sFnvsjhsvybsLnbbosqsubiuqje,svrsfb
gibhbovbespjvysqsvqjd?sQosqddbmrijaqdsubqojomsuqcsdni sybib.

VybibsqibsvprsircqdstjhyshrshvcdbesfcsvybsBomdjhysdqpspijvbih—vybspyqdb
qoesvybshvnimbro;sfrvysircqdsgirgbivcsnoebisabivqjosdjujvqvjroh,sqoe
orujoqddcshnggdcjomsvybsvbovysfiqoaysrtsvybsairpo’hsriejoqicsibzbonb.sJ
 orpsorvsvyqvsqocsrvybisqnvyrisyqhsyjovbesrtsvybsuqvvbi;sfnvsfc
jotbiboabsjvshbbuhsvrsubsvyqvsvybshvnimbrosunhvsfbsejzjebesjosvybshqub
pqcsqhsvybspyqdb,svybs jomsibabjzjomsvybsyjmydcsebohbsqoesbdqhvjasybqe
gbandjqisvrsvyqvstjhy,spyjay,shcufrdjaqddcsibmqiebe,suqcsgrhhjfdcsfb
ynurirnhdcsmirnoebesngroshrubsgibhnubesarombojqdjvc.sQoesvynhsvybib
hbbuhsqsibqhrosjosqddsvyjomh,sbzbosjosdqp.


AYQGVBIs91.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsIrhb-Fne.

“Joszqjosjvspqhsvrsiq bstrisQufbimijbhbsjosvybsgqnoaysrtsvyjh
Dbzjqvyqo,sjohnttbiqfdbstbvrisebocjomsorvsjolnjic.”s_HjisV.sFirpob,
Z.B._

Jvspqhsqspbb srisvprsqtvbisvybsdqhvspyqdjomshabobsibarnovbe,sqoespybo
pbspbibshdrpdcshqjdjomsrzbisqshdbbgc,szqgric,suje-eqcshbq,svyqvsvyb
uqocsorhbhsrosvybsGblnre’hseba sgirzbesuribszjmjdqovsejharzbibihsvyqo
vybsvyibbsgqjihsrtsbcbhsqdrtv.sQsgbandjqisqoesorvszbicsgdbqhqovshubdd
pqhshubdvsjosvybshbq.

“Jspjddsfbvshrubvyjomsorp,”shqjesHvnff,s“vyqvshrubpybibsybibqfrnvhsqib
hrubsrtsvyrhbseinmmbespyqdbhspbsvja dbesvybsrvybiseqc.sJsvyrnmyvsvybc
prndes bbdsngsfbtribsdrom.”

Gibhbovdc,svybszqgrihsjosqezqoabshdjesqhjeb;sqoesvybibsjosvybsejhvqoab
dqcsqshyjg,spyrhbstnidbeshqjdhsfbvr bobesvyqvshrubshrivsrtspyqdbsunhv
fbsqdromhjeb.sQhspbsmdjebesobqibi,svybshviqombishyrpbesTiboaysardrnih
tirusyjhsgbq ;sqoesfcsvybsbeecjomsadrnesrtszndvnibshbq-trpdsvyqv
ajiadbe,sqoesyrzbibe,sqoeshprrgbesqirnoesyju,sjvspqhsgdqjosvyqvsvyb
pyqdbsqdromhjebsunhvsfbspyqvsvybstjhybiubosaqddsqsfdqhvbespyqdb,svyqv
jh,sqspyqdbsvyqvsyqhsejbesnourdbhvbesrosvybshbq,sqoeshrstdrqvbesqo
noqggirgijqvbesarighb.sJvsuqcspbddsfbsaroabjzbe,spyqvsqosnohqzricsreri
hnaysqsuqhhsunhvsbxyqdb;sprihbsvyqosqosQhhcijqosajvcsjosvybsgdqmnb,
pybosvybsdjzjomsqibsjoarugbvbovsvrsfnicsvybsebgqivbe.sHrsjovrdbiqfdb
joebbesjhsjvsibmqiebesfcshrub,svyqvsorsangjejvcsarndesgbihnqebsvybusvr
urrisqdromhjebsrtsjv.sCbvsqibsvybibsvyrhbspyrspjddshvjddsersjv;
orvpjvyhvqoejomsvybstqavsvyqvsvybsrjdsrfvqjobestirushnayshnfkbavhsjhsrt
qszbicsjotbijrislnqdjvc,sqoesfcsorsubqohsrtsvybsoqvnibsrt
qvvqi-rt-irhb.

Arujomshvjddsobqibispjvysvybsbxgjijomsfibbwb,spbshqpsvyqvsvybsTiboayuqo
yqesqshbaroespyqdbsqdromhjeb;sqoesvyjhshbaroespyqdbshbbubesbzbosuribsrt
qsorhbmqcsvyqosvybstjihv.sJosvinvy,sjvsvniobesrnvsvrsfbsrobsrtsvyrhb
girfdbuqvjaqdspyqdbhsvyqvshbbusvrseicsngsqoesejbspjvysqshrivsrt
girejmjrnhsechgbghjq,srisjoejmbhvjro;sdbqzjomsvybjisebtnoavsfrejbh
qdurhvsbovjibdcsfqo ingvsrtsqocvyjomsdj bsrjd.sObzbivybdbhh,sjosvyb
girgbisgdqabspbshyqddshbbsvyqvsors orpjomstjhybiuqospjddsbzbisvniosng
yjhsorhbsqvshnaysqspyqdbsqhsvyjh,syrpbzbisunaysybsuqcshynosfdqhvbe
pyqdbhsjosmbobiqd.

VybsGblnresyqesorpshpbgvshrsojmysvrsvybshviqombi,svyqvsHvnffszrpbesyb
ibarmojhbesyjhsanvvjomshgqeb-grdbsbovqomdbesjosvybsdjobhsvyqvspbib
 orvvbesirnoesvybsvqjdsrtsrobsrtsvybhbspyqdbh.

“Vybib’hsqsgibvvcstbddrp,sorp,”sybsfqovbijomdcsdqnmybe,shvqoejomsjosvyb
hyjg’hsfrph,s“vybib’hsqskqa qdstriscb!sJspbdds orpsvyqvsvybhbsAiqggrbh
rtsTiboayubosqibsfnvsgrrisebzjdhsjosvybstjhybic;shrubvjubhsdrpbijom
vybjisfrqvhstrisfibq bih,sujhvq jomsvybustrisHgbiusPyqdbshgrnvh;scbh,
qoeshrubvjubhshqjdjomstirusvybjisgrivspjvysvybjisyrdestnddsrtsfrxbhsrt
vqddrpsaqoedbh,sqoesaqhbhsrtshonttbih,stribhbbjomsvyqvsqddsvybsrjdsvybc
pjddsmbvspro’vsfbsbornmysvrsejgsvybsAqgvqjo’hspja sjovr;sqcb,spbsqdd
 orpsvybhbsvyjomh;sfnvsdrr scb,sybib’hsqsAiqggrsvyqvsjhsarovbovspjvy
rnisdbqzjomh,svybseinmmbespyqdbsvybib,sJsubqo;sqcb,sqoesjhsarovbovsvrr
pjvyshaiqgjomsvybseicsfrobhsrtsvyqvsrvybisgibajrnhstjhysybsyqhsvybib.
Grrisebzjd!sJshqc,sgqhhsirnoesqsyqv,shrubsrob,sqoesdbv’hsuq bsyjusq
gibhbovsrtsqsdjvvdbsrjdstrisebqisayqijvc’hshq b.sTrispyqvsrjdsyb’ddsmbv
tirusvyqvseinmmbespyqdbsvybib,sprndeo’vsfbstjvsvrsfniosjosqskqjd;sor,
orvsjosqsaroebuobesabdd.sQoesqhstrisvybsrvybispyqdb,spyc,sJ’ddsqmibbsvr
mbvsuribsrjdsfcsayrggjomsngsqoesvicjomsrnvsvybhbsvyibbsuqhvhsrtsrnih,
vyqosyb’ddsmbvstirusvyqvsfnoedbsrtsfrobh;svyrnmy,sorpsvyqvsJsvyjo srt
jv,sjvsuqcsarovqjoshrubvyjomsprivysqsmrresebqdsuribsvyqosrjd;scbh,
qufbimijh.sJsproebisorpsjtsrnisrdesuqosyqhsvyrnmyvsrtsvyqv.sJv’hsprivy
vicjom.sCbh,sJ’ustrisjv;”sqoeshrshqcjomsybshvqivbestrisvyb
lnqivbi-eba .

Fcsvyjhsvjubsvybstqjovsqjisyqesfbarubsqsarugdbvbsaqdu;shrsvyqvspybvybi
risor,svybsGblnrespqhsorpstqjidcsboviqggbesjosvybshubdd,spjvysorsyrgb
rtsbhaqgjomsbxabgvsfcsjvhsfibbwjomsngsqmqjo.sJhhnjomstirusvybsaqfjo,
Hvnffsorpsaqddbesyjhsfrqv’hsaibp,sqoesgnddbesrttstrisvybshviqombi.
Eiqpjomsqairhhsybisfrp,sybsgbiabjzbesvyqvsjosqaarieqoabspjvysvyb
tqoajtndsTiboaysvqhvb,svybsnggbisgqivsrtsybishvbu-gjbabspqhsaqizbesjo
vybsdj bobhhsrtsqsynmbseirrgjomshvqd ,spqhsgqjovbesmibbo,sqoestri
vyriohsyqesarggbishgj bhsgirkbavjomstirusjvsybibsqoesvybib;svybspyrdb
vbiujoqvjomsjosqshcuubvijaqdstrdebesfndfsrtsqsfijmyvsibesardrni.sNgro
ybisybqesfrqieh,sjosdqimbsmjdvsdbvvbih,sybsibqes“Frnvroseb
Irhb,”—Irhb-fnvvro,srisIrhb-fne;sqoesvyjhspqhsvybsiruqovjasoqubsrtsvyjh
qiruqvjashyjg.

VyrnmysHvnffsejesorvsnoebihvqoesvybs_Frnvro_sgqivsrtsvybsjohaijgvjro,
cbvsvybspries_irhb_,sqoesvybsfndfrnhstjmnib-ybqesgnvsvrmbvybi,
hnttjajbovdcsbxgdqjobesvybspyrdbsvrsyju.

“Qsprrebosirhb-fne,sby?”sybsaijbespjvysyjhsyqoesvrsyjhsorhb,s“vyqvspjdd
erszbicspbdd;sfnvsyrpsdj bsqddsaibqvjrosjvshubddh!”

Orpsjosriebisvrsyrdesejibavsaruunojaqvjrospjvysvybsgbrgdbsroseba ,syb
yqesvrsgnddsirnoesvybsfrphsvrsvybshvqifrqieshjeb,sqoesvynhsarubsadrhb
vrsvybsfdqhvbespyqdb;sqoeshrsvqd srzbisjv.

Qiijzbesvybosqvsvyjhshgrv,spjvysrobsyqoeshvjddsvrsyjhsorhb,syb
fqpdbe—“Frnvro-eb-Irhb,sqyrc!sqibsvybibsqocsrtscrnsFrnvro-eb-Irhbhsvyqv
hgbq sBomdjhy?”

“Cbh,”sibkrjobesqsMnbiohbc-uqostirusvybsfndpqi h,spyrsvniobesrnvsvrsfb
vybsayjbt-uqvb.

“Pbdd,svybo,sucsFrnvro-eb-Irhb-fne,syqzbscrnshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

“_Pyqv_spyqdb?”

“Vybs_Pyjvb_sPyqdb—qsHgbiusPyqdb—UrfcsEja ,syqzbscbshbbosyju?

“Obzbisybqiesrtshnaysqspyqdb.sAqayqdrvsFdqoayb!sPyjvbsPyqdb—or.”

“Zbicsmrre,svybo;smrresfcbsorp,sqoesJ’ddsaqddsqmqjosjosqsujonvb.”

Vybosiqgjedcsgnddjomsfqa svrpqiehsvybsGblnre,sqoeshbbjomsQyqfsdbqojom
rzbisvybslnqivbi-eba siqjdsqpqjvjomsyjhsibgriv,sybsurndebesyjhsvpr
yqoehsjovrsqsvinugbvsqoeshyrnvbe—“Or,sHji!sOr!”sNgrospyjaysQyqf
ibvjibe,sqoesHvnffsibvniobesvrsvybsTiboayuqo.

YbsorpsgbiabjzbesvyqvsvybsMnbiohbc-uqo,spyrsyqesknhvsmrvsjovrsvyb
ayqjoh,sqoespqhsnhjomsqsanvvjom-hgqeb,syqeshdnomsyjhsorhbsjosqshrivsrt
fqm.

“Pyqv’hsvybsuqvvbispjvyscrnisorhb,svybib?”shqjesHvnff.s“Fir bsjv?”

“Jspjhysjvspqhsfir bo,srisvyqvsJsejeo’vsyqzbsqocsorhbsqvsqdd!”sqohpbibe
vybsMnbiohbc-uqo,spyrsejesorvshbbusvrsibdjhysvybskrfsybspqhsqvszbic
unay.s“Fnvspyqvsqibscrnsyrdejoms_crnih_stri?”

“Ry,sorvyjom!sJv’hsqspqxsorhb;sJsyqzbsvrsyrdesjvsro.sTjobseqc,sqjo’v
jv?sQjisiqvybismqiebooc,sJshyrndeshqc;svyirpsnhsqsfnoaysrtsgrhjbh,spjdd
cb,sFrnvro-eb-Irhb?”

“Pyqvsjosvybsebzjd’hsoqubserscrnspqovsybib?”sirqibesvybsMnbiohbcuqo,
tdcjomsjovrsqshneebosgqhhjro.

“Ry!s bbgsarrd—arrd?scbh,svyqv’hsvybsprie!spycsero’vscrnsgqa svyrhb
pyqdbhsjosjabspyjdbscrn’ibspri jomsqvs’bu?sFnvskr jomsqhjeb,svyrnmy;ser
crns orp,sIrhb-fne,svyqvsjv’hsqddsorohbohbsvicjomsvrsmbvsqocsrjdsrnvsrt
hnayspyqdbh?sQhstrisvyqvseijbesngsrob,svybib,sybsyqho’vsqsmjddsjosyjh
pyrdbsaqiaqhb.”

“Js orpsvyqvspbddsbornmy;sfnv,se’cbshbb,svybsAqgvqjosybibspro’vsfbdjbzb
jv;svyjhsjhsyjhstjihvszrcqmb;sybspqhsqsArdrmobsuqontqavnibisfbtrib.sFnv
arubsqfrqie,sqoesuqcyqgsyb’ddsfbdjbzbscrn,sjtsybspro’vsub;sqoeshrsJ’dd
mbvsrnvsrtsvyjhsejivcshaiqgb.”

“Qocvyjomsvrsrfdjmbscb,sucshpbbvsqoesgdbqhqovstbddrp,”sibkrjobesHvnff,
qoespjvysvyqvsybshrrosurnovbesvrsvybseba .sVybibsqslnbbishabob
gibhbovbesjvhbdt.sVybshqjdrih,sjosvqhhbddbesaqghsrtsibesprihvbe,spbib
mbvvjomsvybsybqzcsvqa dbhsjosibqejobhhstrisvybspyqdbh.sFnvsvybcspri be
iqvybishdrpsqoesvqd beszbicstqhv,sqoeshbbubesjosqocvyjomsfnvsqsmrre
ynuri.sQddsvybjisorhbhsngpqiedcsgirkbavbestirusvybjistqabhsdj bshrsuqoc
kjf-frruh.sOrpsqoesvybosgqjihsrtsvybusprndeseirgsvybjispri ,sqoesinosng
vrsvybsuqhv-ybqesvrsmbvshrubstibhysqji.sHrubsvyjo jomsvybcsprndesaqvay
vybsgdqmnb,sejggbesrq nusjosarqd-vqi,sqoesqvsjovbizqdhsybdesjvsvrsvybji
orhvijdh.sRvybihsyqzjomsfir bosvybshvbuhsrtsvybjisgjgbhsqdurhvshyriv
rttsqvsvybsfrpd,spbibszjmrirnhdcsgnttjomsvrfqaar-hur b,shrsvyqvsjv
arohvqovdcstjddbesvybjisrdtqavrijbh.

Hvnffspqhshvina sfcsqshyrpbisrtsrnvaijbhsqoesqoqvybuqhsgirabbejomstiru
vybsAqgvqjo’hsirnoe-yrnhbsqfqtv;sqoesdrr jomsjosvyqvsejibavjroshqpsq
tjbicstqabsvyinhvstirusfbyjoesvybserri,spyjayspqhsybdesqkqistiru
pjvyjo.sVyjhspqhsvybsvriubovbeshnimbro,spyr,sqtvbisjoszqjo
iburohviqvjomsqmqjohvsvybsgirabbejomhsrtsvybseqc,syqesfbvq bosyjuhbdt
vrsvybsAqgvqjo’hsirnoe-yrnhbs(_aqfjobv_sybsaqddbesjv)svrsqzrjesvyb
gbhv;sfnvshvjdd,sarndesorvsybdgscbddjomsrnvsyjhsbovibqvjbhsqoe
joejmoqvjrohsqvsvjubh.

Uqi jomsqddsvyjh,sHvnffsqimnbespbddstrisyjhshaybub,sqoesvniojomsvrsvyb
Mnbiohbc-uqosyqesqsdjvvdbsayqvspjvysyju,senijomspyjaysvybshviqombisuqvb
bxgibhhbesyjhsebvbhvqvjrosrtsyjhsAqgvqjosqhsqsaroabjvbesjmoriqunh,spyr
yqesfirnmyvsvybusqddsjovrshrsnohqzricsqoesnogirtjvqfdbsqsgja db.
Hrnoejomsyjusaqibtnddc,sHvnffstnivybisgbiabjzbesvyqvsvybsMnbiohbc-uqo
yqesorvsvybshdjmyvbhvshnhgjajrosaroabiojomsvybsqufbimijh.sYbsvybibtrib
ybdesyjhsgbqabsrosvyqvsybqe,sfnvsrvybipjhbspqhslnjvbstiqo sqoe
arotjebovjqdspjvysyju,shrsvyqvsvybsvprslnja dcsaroaravbesqsdjvvdbsgdqo
trisfrvysajianuzbovjomsqoeshqvjijwjomsvybsAqgvqjo,spjvyrnvsyjhsqvsqdd
eibqujomsrtsejhvinhvjomsvybjishjoabijvc.sQaariejomsvrsvyjhsdjvvdbsgdqo
rtsvybjih,svybsMnbiohbc-uqo,snoebisarzbisrtsqosjovbigibvbi’hsrttjab,
pqhsvrsvbddsvybsAqgvqjospyqvsybsgdbqhbe,sfnvsqhsarujomstirusHvnff;sqoe
qhstrisHvnff,sybspqhsvrsnvvbisqocsorohbohbsvyqvshyrndesarubsnggbiurhv
josyjusenijomsvybsjovbizjbp.

Fcsvyjhsvjubsvybjisebhvjobeszjavjusqggbqibestirusyjhsaqfjo.sYbspqhsq
huqddsqoeseqi ,sfnvsiqvybisebdjaqvbsdrr jomsuqostrisqshbq-aqgvqjo,spjvy
dqimbspyjh bihsqoesurnhvqayb,syrpbzbi;sqoespribsqsibesarvvroszbdzbv
zbhvspjvyspqvay-hbqdhsqvsyjhshjeb.sVrsvyjhsmbovdbuqo,sHvnffspqhsorp
grdjvbdcsjovirenabesfcsvybsMnbiohbc-uqo,spyrsqvsroabsrhvbovqvjrnhdcsgnv
rosvybsqhgbavsrtsjovbigibvjomsfbvpbbosvybu.

“PyqvshyqddsJshqcsvrsyjustjihv?”shqjesyb.

“Pyc,”shqjesHvnff,sbcbjomsvybszbdzbvszbhvsqoesvybspqvaysqoeshbqdh,s“crn
uqcsqhspbddsfbmjosfcsvbddjomsyjusvyqvsybsdrr hsqshrivsrtsfqfcjhysvrsub,
vyrnmysJsero’vsgibvboesvrsfbsqsknemb.”

“Ybshqch,sUrohjbni,”shqjesvybsMnbiohbc-uqo,sjosTiboay,svniojomsvrsyjh
aqgvqjo,s“vyqvsrodcscbhvbieqcsyjhshyjgshgr bsqszbhhbd,spyrhbsaqgvqjo
qoesayjbt-uqvb,spjvyshjxshqjdrih,syqesqddsejbesrtsqstbzbisaqnmyvstirusq
fdqhvbespyqdbsvybcsyqesfirnmyvsqdromhjeb.”

Ngrosvyjhsvybsaqgvqjoshvqivbe,sqoesbqmbidcsebhjibesvrs orpsurib.

“Pyqvsorp?”shqjesvybsMnbiohbc-uqosvrsHvnff.

“Pyc,shjoabsybsvq bhsjvshrsbqhc,svbddsyjusvyqvsorpsJsyqzbsbcbesyju
aqibtnddc,sJ’uslnjvbsabivqjosvyqvsyb’hsorsuribstjvsvrsaruuqoesq
pyqdb-hyjgsvyqosqsHv.sKqmrsuro bc.sJostqav,svbddsyjustirusubsyb’hsq
fqfrro.”

“Ybszrphsqoesebadqibh,sUrohjbni,svyqvsvybsrvybispyqdb,svybseijbesrob,
jhstqisuribsebqedcsvyqosvybsfdqhvbesrob;sjostjob,sUrohjbni,sybsaroknibh
nh,sqhspbszqdnbsrnisdjzbh,svrsanvsdrrhbstirusvybhbstjhy.”

Johvqovdcsvybsaqgvqjosiqostripqie,sqoesjosqsdrneszrjabsaruuqoebesyjh
aibpsvrsebhjhvstirusyrjhvjomsvybsanvvjom-vqa dbh,sqoesqvsroabsaqhv
drrhbsvybsaqfdbhsqoesayqjohsarotjojomsvybspyqdbhsvrsvybshyjg.

“Pyqvsorp?”shqjesvybsMnbiohbc-uqo,spybosvybsAqgvqjosyqesibvniobesvr
vybu.

“Pyc,sdbvsubshbb;scbh,scrnsuqcsqhspbddsvbddsyjusorpsvyqv—vyqv—jostqav,
vbddsyjusJ’zbsejeedbesyju,sqoes(qhjebsvrsyjuhbdt)sgbiyqghshrubfrec
bdhb.”

“Ybshqch,sUrohjbni,svyqvsyb’hszbicsyqggcsvrsyqzbsfbbosrtsqocshbizjabsvr
nh.”

Ybqijomsvyjh,svybsaqgvqjoszrpbesvyqvsvybcspbibsvybsmiqvbtndsgqivjbh
(ubqojomsyjuhbdtsqoesuqvb)sqoesaroadnebesfcsjozjvjomsHvnffserposjovr
yjhsaqfjosvrseijo sqsfrvvdbsrtsFriebqnx.

“Ybspqovhscrnsvrsvq bsqsmdqhhsrtspjobspjvysyju,”shqjesvybsjovbigibvbi.

“Vyqo syjusybqivjdc;sfnvsvbddsyjusjv’hsqmqjohvsucsgijoajgdbhsvrseijo 
pjvysvybsuqosJ’zbsejeedbe.sJostqav,svbddsyjusJsunhvsmr.”

“Ybshqch,sUrohjbni,svyqvsyjhsgijoajgdbhspro’vsqeujvsrtsyjhseijo jom;
fnvsvyqvsjtsUrohjbnispqovhsvrsdjzbsqorvybiseqcsvrseijo ,svybosUrohjbni
yqesfbhvseirgsqddstrnisfrqvh,sqoesgnddsvybshyjgsqpqcstirusvybhbspyqdbh,
trisjv’hshrsaqdusvybcspro’vseijtv.”

FcsvyjhsvjubsHvnffspqhsrzbisvybshjeb,sqoesmbvvjomsjovrsyjhsfrqv,syqjdbe
vybsMnbiohbc-uqosvrsvyjhsbttbav,—vyqvsyqzjomsqsdromsvrp-djobsjosyjh
frqv,sybsprndeserspyqvsybsarndesvrsybdgsvybu,sfcsgnddjomsrnvsvyb
djmyvbispyqdbsrtsvybsvprstirusvybshyjg’hshjeb.sPyjdbsvybsTiboayuqo’h
frqvh,svybo,spbibsbomqmbesjosvrpjomsvybshyjgsrobspqc,sHvnff
fbobzrdbovdcsvrpbesqpqcsqvsyjhspyqdbsvybsrvybispqc,srhvbovqvjrnhdc
hdqa jomsrnvsqsurhvsnonhnqddcsdromsvrp-djob.

Gibhbovdcsqsfibbwbshgiqomsng;sHvnffstbjmobesvrsaqhvsrttstirusvybspyqdb;
yrjhvjomsyjhsfrqvh,svybsTiboayuqoshrrosjoaibqhbesyjhsejhvqoab,spyjdb
vybsGblnreshdjesjosfbvpbbosyjusqoesHvnff’hspyqdb.sPybibngrosHvnff
lnja dcsgnddbesvrsvybstdrqvjomsfrec,sqoesyqjdjomsvybsGblnresvrsmjzb
orvjabsrtsyjhsjovbovjroh,sqvsroabsgirabbebesvrsibqgsvybstinjvsrtsyjh
noijmyvbrnhsanoojom.sHbjwjomsyjhshyqigsfrqv-hgqeb,sybsaruuboabesqo
bxaqzqvjrosjosvybsfrec,sqsdjvvdbsfbyjoesvybshjebstjo.sCrnsprndesqdurhv
yqzbsvyrnmyvsybspqhsejmmjomsqsabddqisvybibsjosvybshbq;sqoespybosqv
dbomvysyjhshgqebshvina sqmqjohvsvybsmqnovsijfh,sjvspqhsdj bsvniojomsng
rdesIruqosvjdbhsqoesgrvvbicsfnijbesjostqvsBomdjhysdrqu.sYjhsfrqv’hsaibp
pbibsqddsjosyjmysbxajvbubov,sbqmbidcsybdgjomsvybjisayjbt,sqoesdrr jom
qhsqoxjrnhsqhsmrde-ynovbih.

Qoesqddsvybsvjubsonufbidbhhstrpdhspbibsejzjom,sqoesena jom,sqoe
haibqujom,sqoescbddjom,sqoestjmyvjomsqirnoesvybu.sHvnffspqhsfbmjoojom
vrsdrr sejhqggrjovbe,sbhgbajqddcsqhsvybsyriijfdbsorhbmqcsjoaibqhbe,
pyboshneebodcstirusrnvsvybszbicsybqivsrtsvyjhsgdqmnb,svybibshvrdbsq
tqjovshvibqusrtsgbitnub,spyjaystdrpbesvyirnmysvybsvjebsrtsfqeshubddh
pjvyrnvsfbjomsqfhrifbesfcsjv,sqhsrobsijzbispjddstdrpsjovrsqoesvybo
qdromspjvysqorvybi,spjvyrnvsqvsqddsfdboejomspjvysjvstrisqsvjub.

“Jsyqzbsjv,sJsyqzbsjv,”saijbesHvnff,spjvysebdjmyv,shvij jomshrubvyjom
josvybshnfvbiiqobqosibmjroh,s“qsgnihb!sqsgnihb!”

Eirggjomsyjhshgqeb,sybsvyinhvsfrvysyqoehsjo,sqoeseibpsrnvsyqoetndhsrt
hrubvyjomsvyqvsdrr besdj bsijgbsPjoehrishrqg,srisijaysurvvdbesrde
aybbhb;szbicsnoavnrnhsqoeshqzricspjvyqd.sCrnsujmyvsbqhjdcsebovsjvspjvy
crnisvynuf;sjvsjhsrtsqsynbsfbvpbboscbddrpsqoesqhysardrni.sQoesvyjh,
mrrestijboeh,sjhsqufbimijh,sprivysqsmrdesmnjobqsqosrnoabsvrsqoc
einmmjhv.sHrubshjxsyqoetndhspbibsrfvqjobe;sfnvsuribspqhsnoqzrjeqfdc
drhvsjosvybshbq,sqoeshvjddsurib,sgbiyqgh,sujmyvsyqzbsfbboshbanibespbib
jvsorvstrisjugqvjbovsQyqf’hsdrnesaruuqoesvrsHvnffsvrsebhjhv,sqoesarub
rosfrqie,sbdhbsvybshyjgsprndesfjesvybusmrresfcb.


AYQGVBIs92.sQufbimijh.

Orpsvyjhsqufbimijhsjhsqszbicsanijrnhshnfhvqoab,sqoeshrsjugrivqovsqhsqo
qivjadbsrtsaruubiab,svyqvsjos1791sqsabivqjosOqovna bv-friosAqgvqjo
ArttjospqhsbxqujobesqvsvybsfqisrtsvybsBomdjhysYrnhbsrtsAruurohsrosvyqv
hnfkbav.sTrisqvsvyqvsvjub,sqoesjoebbesnovjdsqsarugqiqvjzbdcsdqvbseqc,
vybsgibajhbsrijmjosrtsqufbimijhsibuqjobe,sdj bsqufbisjvhbdt,sqsgirfdbu
vrsvybsdbqiobe.sVyrnmysvybspriesqufbimijhsjhsfnvsvybsTiboaysarugrnoe
trismibcsqufbi,scbvsvybsvprshnfhvqoabhsqibslnjvbsejhvjoav.sTrisqufbi,
vyrnmysqvsvjubhstrnoesrosvybshbq-arqhv,sjhsqdhrsenmsngsjoshrubstqi
jodqoeshrjdh,spybibqhsqufbimijhsjhsobzbistrnoesbxabgvsngrosvybshbq.
Fbhjebh,squfbisjhsqsyqie,sviqohgqibov,sfijvvdb,sreridbhhshnfhvqoab,
nhbestrisurnvy-gjbabhsvrsgjgbh,strisfbqehsqoesrioqubovh;sfnvsqufbimijh
jhshrtv,spqxc,sqoeshrsyjmydcstiqmiqovsqoeshgjac,svyqvsjvsjhsdqimbdc
nhbesjosgbitnubic,sjosgqhvjdbh,sgibajrnhsaqoedbh,syqji-grpebih,sqoe
gruqvnu.sVybsVni hsnhbsjvsjosarr jom,sqoesqdhrsaqiicsjvsvrsUbaaq,stri
vybshqubsgnigrhbsvyqvstiqo joabohbsjhsaqiijbesvrsHv.sGbvbi’hsjosIrub.
Hrubspjobsubiayqovhseirgsqstbpsmiqjohsjovrsadqibv,svrstdqzrisjv.

Pyrsprndesvyjo ,svybo,svyqvshnaystjobsdqejbhsqoesmbovdbuboshyrnde
ibmqdbsvybuhbdzbhspjvysqosbhhboabstrnoesjosvybsjomdrijrnhsfrpbdhsrtsq
hja spyqdb!sCbvshrsjvsjh.sFcshrub,squfbimijhsjhshnggrhbesvrsfbsvyb
aqnhb,sqoesfcsrvybihsvybsbttbav,srtsvybsechgbghjqsjosvybspyqdb.sYrpsvr
anibshnaysqsechgbghjqsjvspbibsyqiesvrshqc,snodbhhsfcsqeujojhvbijom
vyibbsristrnisfrqvsdrqehsrtsFiqoeibvy’hsgjddh,sqoesvybosinoojomsrnvsrt
yqiu’hspqc,sqhsdqfribihsersjosfdqhvjomsira h.

Jsyqzbstrimrvvbosvrshqcsvyqvsvybibspbibstrnoesjosvyjhsqufbimijh,
abivqjosyqie,sirnoe,sfrocsgdqvbh,spyjaysqvstjihvsHvnffsvyrnmyvsujmyvsfb
hqjdrih’svirphbihsfnvvroh;sfnvsjvsqtvbipqiehsvniobesrnvsvyqvsvybcspbib
orvyjomsuribsvyqosgjbabhsrtshuqddshlnjesfrobhsbufqdubesjosvyqvsuqoobi.

Orpsvyqvsvybsjoariingvjrosrtsvyjhsurhvstiqmiqovsqufbimijhshyrndesfb
trnoesjosvybsybqivsrtshnaysebaqc;sjhsvyjhsorvyjom?sFbvyjo svybbsrtsvyqv
hqcjomsrtsHv.sGqndsjosArijovyjqoh,sqfrnvsariingvjrosqoesjoariingvjro;
yrpsvyqvspbsqibshrposjosejhyrori,sfnvsiqjhbesjosmdric.sQoesdj bpjhb
aqddsvrsujoesvyqvshqcjomsrtsGqiqabdhnhsqfrnvspyqvsjvsjhsvyqvsuq bvysvyb
fbhvsunh .sQdhrstrimbvsorvsvybshviqombstqavsvyqvsrtsqddsvyjomhsrt
jdd-hqzri,sArdrmob-pqvbi,sjosjvhsinejubovqdsuqontqavnijomshvqmbh,sjh
vybsprihv.

Jshyrndesdj bsvrsaroadnebsvybsayqgvbispjvysvybsqfrzbsqggbqd,sfnv
aqoorv,srpjomsvrsucsqoxjbvcsvrsibgbdsqsayqimbsrtvbosuqebsqmqjohv
pyqdbubo,sqoespyjay,sjosvybsbhvjuqvjrosrtshrubsqdibqecsfjqhbesujoeh,
ujmyvsfbsarohjebibesqhsjoejibavdcshnfhvqovjqvbesfcspyqvsyqhsfbboshqje
rtsvybsTiboayuqo’hsvprspyqdbh.sBdhbpybibsjosvyjhszrdnubsvybshdqoebirnh
qhgbihjrosyqhsfbbosejhgirzbe,svyqvsvybszraqvjrosrtspyqdjomsjh
vyirnmyrnvsqshdqvvbiodc,snovjecsfnhjobhh.sFnvsvybibsjhsqorvybisvyjomsvr
ibfnv.sVybcsyjovsvyqvsqddspyqdbhsqdpqchshubddsfqe.sOrpsyrpsejesvyjh
rejrnhshvjmuqsrijmjoqvb?

Jsrgjob,svyqvsjvsjhsgdqjodcsviqabqfdbsvrsvybstjihvsqiijzqdsrtsvyb
MibbodqoespyqdjomshyjghsjosDroero,suribsvyqosvprsabovnijbhsqmr.sFbaqnhb
vyrhbspyqdbubosejesorvsvybo,sqoesersorvsorp,svicsrnvsvybjisrjdsqvshbq
qhsvybsHrnvybioshyjghsyqzbsqdpqchserob;sfnvsanvvjomsngsvybstibhy
fdnffbisjoshuqddsfjvh,svyinhvsjvsvyirnmysvybsfnomsyrdbhsrtsdqimbsaqh h,
qoesaqiicsjvsyrubsjosvyqvsuqoobi;svybshyrivobhhsrtsvybshbqhrosjosvyrhb
JacsHbqh,sqoesvybshneebosqoeszjrdbovshvriuhsvrspyjaysvybcsqibsbxgrhbe,
trifjeejomsqocsrvybisarnihb.sVybsarohblnboabsjh,svyqvsngrosfibq jom
jovrsvybsyrde,sqoesnodrqejomsrobsrtsvybhbspyqdbsabubvbijbh,sjosvyb
Mibbodqoesera ,sqshqzrisjhsmjzbostrivyshrubpyqvshjujdqisvrsvyqvsqijhjom
tirusbxaqzqvjomsqosrdesajvcsmiqzb-cqie,strisvybstrnoeqvjrohsrtsq
Dcjom-josYrhgjvqd.

Jsgqivdcshniujhbsqdhr,svyqvsvyjhspja besayqimbsqmqjohvspyqdbihsuqcsfb
dj bpjhbsjugnvbesvrsvybsbxjhvboabsrosvybsarqhvsrtsMibbodqoe,sjostriubi
vjubh,srtsqsEnvayszjddqmbsaqddbesHayubibofnimysrisHubbibofbim,spyjay
dqvvbisoqubsjhsvybsrobsnhbesfcsvybsdbqiobesTrmrsZrosHdqa ,sjosyjhsmibqv
pri srosHubddh,sqsvbxv-frr srosvyqvshnfkbav.sQhsjvhsoqubsjugrivh
(hubbi,stqv;sfbim,svrsgnvsng),svyjhszjddqmbspqhstrnoebesjosriebisvr
qttriesqsgdqabstrisvybsfdnffbisrtsvybsEnvayspyqdbstdbbvsvrsfbsvijbe
rnv,spjvyrnvsfbjomsvq bosyrubsvrsYrddqoestrisvyqvsgnigrhb.sJvspqhsq
arddbavjrosrtstnioqabh,stqv- bvvdbh,sqoesrjdshybeh;sqoespybosvybspri h
pbibsjostnddsrgbiqvjrosabivqjodcsmqzbstrivysorszbicsgdbqhqovshqzri.sFnv
qddsvyjhsjhslnjvbsejttbibovspjvysqsHrnvysHbqsHgbiusPyqdbi;spyjaysjosq
zrcqmbsrtstrniscbqihsgbiyqgh,sqtvbisarugdbvbdcstjddjomsybisyrdespjvy
rjd,serbhsorv,sgbiyqgh,sarohnubstjtvcseqchsjosvybsfnhjobhhsrtsfrjdjom
rnv;sqoesjosvybshvqvbsvyqvsjvsjhsaqh be,svybsrjdsjhsobqidcshabovdbhh.
Vybsvinvysjh,svyqvsdjzjomsrisebqe,sjtsfnvsebabovdcsvibqvbe,spyqdbhsqhsq
hgbajbhsqibsfcsorsubqohsaibqvnibhsrtsjddsreri;sorisaqospyqdbubosfb
ibarmojhbe,sqhsvybsgbrgdbsrtsvybsujeedbsqmbhsqttbavbesvrsebvbavsqsKbp
josvybsarugqoc,sfcsvybsorhb.sOrisjoebbesaqosvybspyqdbsgrhhjfdcsfb
rvybipjhbsvyqostiqmiqov,spybo,sqhsqsmbobiqdsvyjom,sybsbokrchshnaysyjmy
ybqdvy;svq jomsqfnoeqoabsrtsbxbiajhb;sqdpqchsrnvsrtserrih;svyrnmy,sjv
jhsvinb,shbderusjosvybsrgbosqji.sJshqc,svyqvsvybsurvjrosrtsqsHgbiu
Pyqdb’hstdn bhsqfrzbspqvbisejhgbohbhsqsgbitnub,sqhspybosqsunh -habovbe
dqecsinhvdbhsybiseibhhsjosqspqiusgqidri.sPyqvsvyboshyqddsJsdj bosvyb
HgbiusPyqdbsvrstristiqmiqoab,sarohjebijomsyjhsuqmojvneb?sUnhvsjvsorvsfb
vrsvyqvstqurnhsbdbgyqov,spjvyskbpbddbesvnh h,sqoesiberdbovspjvysuciiy,
pyjayspqhsdbesrnvsrtsqosJoejqosvrposvrsersyrorisvrsQdbxqoebisvybsMibqv?


AYQGVBIs93.sVybsAqhvqpqc.

JvspqhsfnvshrubstbpseqchsqtvbisboarnovbijomsvybsTiboayuqo,svyqvsqsurhv
hjmojtjaqovsbzbovsfbtbddsvybsurhvsjohjmojtjaqovsrtsvybsGblnre’hsaibp;
qosbzbovsurhvsdqubovqfdb;sqoespyjaysboebesjosgirzjejomsvybshrubvjubh
uqedcsubiicsqoesgibebhvjoqvbesaiqtvspjvysqsdjzjomsqoesbzbisqaarugqocjom
girgybacsrtspyqvbzbishyqvvbibeshblnbdsujmyvsgirzbsybisrpo.

Orp,sjosvybspyqdbshyjg,sjvsjhsorvsbzbicsrobsvyqvsmrbhsjosvybsfrqvh.
Hrubstbpsyqoehsqibsibhbizbesaqddbeshyjg- bbgbih,spyrhbsgirzjoabsjvsjh
vrspri svybszbhhbdspyjdbsvybsfrqvhsqibsgnihnjomsvybspyqdb.sQhsqsmbobiqd
vyjom,svybhbshyjg- bbgbihsqibsqhsyqiecstbddrphsqhsvybsubosarugijhjom
vybsfrqvh’saibph.sFnvsjtsvybibsyqggbosvrsfbsqosnoendcshdboebi,sadnuhc,
risvjurirnhspjmyvsjosvybshyjg,svyqvspjmyvsjhsabivqjosvrsfbsuqebsq
hyjg- bbgbi.sJvspqhshrsjosvybsGblnrespjvysvybsdjvvdbsobmirsGjggjosfc
oja -oqub,sGjgsfcsqffibzjqvjro.sGrrisGjg!scbsyqzbsybqiesrtsyjusfbtrib;
cbsunhvsibubufbisyjhsvqufrnijobsrosvyqvseiquqvjasujeojmyv,shr
mdrruc-krddc.

Josrnvbisqhgbav,sGjgsqoesErnmy-Frcsuqebsqsuqvay,sdj bsqsfdqa sgrocsqoe
qspyjvbsrob,srtsblnqdsebzbdrgubovh,svyrnmysrtsejhhjujdqisardrni,seijzbo
josrobsbaabovijashgqo.sFnvspyjdbsyqgdbhhsErnmy-Frcspqhsfcsoqvnibsendd
qoesvrigjesjosyjhsjovbddbavh,sGjg,svyrnmysrzbisvboebi-ybqivbe,spqhsqv
frvvruszbicsfijmyv,spjvysvyqvsgdbqhqov,smbojqd,skrddcsfijmyvobhh
gbandjqisvrsyjhsvijfb;sqsvijfb,spyjaysbzbisbokrcsqddsyrdjeqchsqoe
tbhvjzjvjbhspjvystjobi,stibbisibdjhysvyqosqocsrvybisiqab.sTrisfdqa h,
vybscbqi’hsaqdboeqishyrndeshyrpsoqnmyvsfnvsvyibbsynoeibesqoeshjxvc-tjzb
TrnivysrtsKndchsqoesObpsCbqi’hsEqch.sOrishujdbshr,spyjdbsJspijvbsvyqv
vyjhsdjvvdbsfdqa spqhsfijddjqov,strisbzbosfdqa obhhsyqhsjvhsfijddjqoac;
fbyrdescrosdnhvirnhsbfroc,sgqobddbesjos jom’hsaqfjobvh.sFnvsGjgsdrzbe
djtb,sqoesqddsdjtb’hsgbqabqfdbshbanijvjbh;shrsvyqvsvybsgqoja-hvij jom
fnhjobhhsjospyjaysybsyqeshrubyrpsnoqaarnovqfdcsfbarubsboviqggbe,syqe
urhvshqedcsfdniibesyjhsfijmyvobhh;svyrnmy,sqhsbibsdromspjddsfbshbbo,
pyqvspqhsvynhsvbugriqijdcshnfenbesjosyju,sjosvybsboespqhsebhvjobesvrsfb
dnijedcsjddnujobesfcshviqombspjdestjibh,svyqvstjavjvjrnhdcshyrpbesyju
rttsvrsvbosvjubhsvybsoqvniqdsdnhvibspjvyspyjaysjosyjhsoqvjzbsVrddqoe
ArnovcsjosAroobavjanv,sybsyqesroabsbodjzbobesuqocsqstjeedbi’hstirdjasro
vybsmibbo;sqoesqvsubdrejrnhsbzbo-vjeb,spjvysyjhsmqcsyq-yq!syqesvniobe
vybsirnoesyrijwrosjovrsrobshvqi-fbddbesvqufrnijob.sHr,svyrnmysjosvyb
adbqisqjisrtseqc,shnhgboebesqmqjohvsqsfdnb-zbjobesoba ,svyb
gnib-pqvbibesejquroeseirgspjddsybqdvytndsmdrp;scbv,spybosvybsanoojom
kbpbddbisprndeshyrpscrnsvybsejquroesjosjvhsurhvsjugibhhjzbsdnhvib,syb
dqchsjvsqmqjohvsqsmdrrucsmirnoe,sqoesvybosdjmyvhsjvsng,sorvsfcsvybshno,
fnvsfcshrubsnooqvniqdsmqhbh.sVybosarubsrnvsvyrhbstjbicsbttndmboabh,
jotbioqddcshngbif;svybosvybsbzjd-fdqwjomsejquroe,sroabsvybsejzjobhv
hcufrdsrtsvybsaichvqdsh jbh,sdrr hsdj bshrubsairpo-kbpbdshvrdbostiru
vybs jomsrtsYbdd.sFnvsdbvsnhsvrsvybshvric.

Jvsaqubsvrsgqhh,svyqvsjosvybsqufbimijhsqttqjisHvnff’hsqtvbi-rqihuqo
ayqoabeshrsvrshgiqjosyjhsyqoe,sqhstrisqsvjubsvrsfbarubslnjvbsuqjube;
qoe,svbugriqijdc,sGjgspqhsgnvsjovrsyjhsgdqab.

VybstjihvsvjubsHvnffsdrpbibespjvysyju,sGjgsbzjoabesunaysobizrnhobhh;
fnvsyqggjdc,strisvyqvsvjub,sbhaqgbesadrhbsarovqavspjvysvybspyqdb;sqoe
vybibtribsaqubsrttsorvsqdvrmbvybisejhaibejvqfdc;svyrnmysHvnffsrfhbizjom
yju,svrr saqib,sqtvbipqieh,svrsbxyrivsyjusvrsaybijhysyjhsarniqmbrnhobhh
vrsvybsnvurhv,strisybsujmyvsrtvbostjoesjvsobbetnd.

Orpsngrosvybshbaroesdrpbijom,svybsfrqvsgqeedbesngrosvybspyqdb;sqoesqh
vybstjhysibabjzbesvybseqivbesjiro,sjvsmqzbsjvhsanhvruqicsiqg,spyjay
yqggbobe,sjosvyjhsjohvqoab,svrsfbsijmyvsnoebisgrrisGjg’hshbqv.sVyb
jozrdnovqicsarohvbioqvjrosrtsvybsurubovsaqnhbesyjusvrsdbqg,sgqeedbsjo
yqoe,srnvsrtsvybsfrqv;sqoesjoshnaysqspqc,svyqvsgqivsrtsvybshdqa spyqdb
djobsarujomsqmqjohvsyjhsaybhv,sybsfibqhvbesjvsrzbifrqiespjvysyju,shrsqh
vrsfbarubsbovqomdbesjosjv,spybosqvsdqhvsgdnugjomsjovrsvybspqvbi.sVyqv
johvqovsvybshvija bospyqdbshvqivbesrosqstjbiabsino,svybsdjobshpjtvdc
hviqjmyvbobe;sqoesgibhvr!sgrrisGjgsaqubsqddstrqujomsngsvrsvybsayra hsrt
vybsfrqv,siburihbdbhhdcseiqmmbesvybibsfcsvybsdjob,spyjaysyqesvq bo
hbzbiqdsvniohsqirnoesyjhsaybhvsqoesoba .

Vqhyvbmrshvrresjosvybsfrph.sYbspqhstnddsrtsvybstjibsrtsvybsynov.sYb
yqvbesGjgstrisqsgrdvirro.sHoqvayjomsvybsfrqv- ojtbstirusjvhshybqvy,syb
hnhgboebesjvhshyqigsbembsrzbisvybsdjob,sqoesvniojomsvrpqiehsHvnff,
bxadqjubesjovbiirmqvjzbdc,s“Anv?”sUbqovjubsGjg’hsfdnb,sayr bestqab
gdqjodcsdrr be,sEr,strisMre’hshq b!sQddsgqhhbesjosqstdqhy.sJosdbhhsvyqo
yqdtsqsujonvb,svyjhsbovjibsvyjomsyqggbobe.

“Equosyju,sanv!”sirqibesHvnff;sqoeshrsvybspyqdbspqhsdrhvsqoesGjgspqh
hqzbe.

Hrshrrosqhsybsibarzbibesyjuhbdt,svybsgrrisdjvvdbsobmirspqhsqhhqjdbesfc
cbddhsqoesbxbaiqvjrohstirusvybsaibp.sViqolnjddcsgbiujvvjomsvybhb
jiibmndqisanihjomhsvrsbzqgriqvb,sHvnffsvybosjosqsgdqjo,sfnhjobhh-dj b,
fnvshvjddsyqdtsynurirnhsuqoobi,sanihbesGjgsrttjajqddc;sqoesvyqvserob,
norttjajqddcsmqzbsyjusunayspyrdbhrubsqezjab.sVybshnfhvqoabspqh,sObzbi
knugstirusqsfrqv,sGjg,sbxabgv—fnvsqddsvybsibhvspqhsjoebtjojvb,sqhsvyb
hrnoebhvsqezjabsbzbisjh.sOrp,sjosmbobiqd,s_Hvja svrsvybsfrqv_,sjhscrni
vinbsurvvrsjospyqdjom;sfnvsaqhbhspjddshrubvjubhsyqggbospybos_Dbqgstiru
vybsfrqv_,sjhshvjddsfbvvbi.sUribrzbi,sqhsjtsgbiabjzjomsqvsdqhvsvyqvsjt
ybshyrndesmjzbsnoejdnvbesarohajbovjrnhsqezjabsvrsGjg,sybsprndesfb
dbqzjomsyjusvrrspjebsqsuqimjosvrsknugsjostrisvybstnvnib;sHvnffshneebodc
eirggbesqddsqezjab,sqoesaroadnebespjvysqsgbibugvricsaruuqoe,s“Hvja svr
vybsfrqv,sGjg,srisfcsvybsDrie,sJspro’vsgja scrnsngsjtscrnsknug;sujoe
vyqv.sPbsaqo’vsqttriesvrsdrhbspyqdbhsfcsvybsdj bhsrtscrn;sqspyqdbsprnde
hbddstrisvyjivcsvjubhspyqvscrnsprnde,sGjg,sjosQdqfquq.sFbqisvyqvsjo
ujoe,sqoesero’vsknugsqocsurib.”sYbibfcsgbiyqghsHvnffsjoejibavdcsyjovbe,
vyqvsvyrnmysuqosdrzbesyjhstbddrp,scbvsuqosjhsqsurobc-uq jomsqojuqd,
pyjaysgirgbohjvcsvrrsrtvbosjovbitbibhspjvysyjhsfbobzrdboab.

FnvspbsqibsqddsjosvybsyqoehsrtsvybsMreh;sqoesGjgsknugbesqmqjo.sJvspqh
noebiszbicshjujdqisajianuhvqoabhsvrsvybstjihvsgbitriuqoab;sfnvsvyjh
vjubsybsejesorvsfibqhvsrnvsvybsdjob;sqoesyboab,spybosvybspyqdbshvqivbe
vrsino,sGjgspqhsdbtvsfbyjoesrosvybshbq,sdj bsqsyniijbesviqzbddbi’h
vino .sQdqh!sHvnffspqhsfnvsvrrsvinbsvrsyjhsprie.sJvspqhsqsfbqnvjtnd,
frnovbrnh,sfdnbseqc;svybshgqomdbeshbqsaqdusqoesarrd,sqoestdqvdc
hvibvayjomsqpqc,sqddsirnoe,svrsvybsyrijwro,sdj bsmrde-fbqvbi’hsh jo
yquubibesrnvsvrsvybsbxvibubhv.sFrffjomsngsqoeserposjosvyqvshbq,sGjg’h
bfrosybqeshyrpbesdj bsqsybqesrtsadrzbh.sOrsfrqv- ojtbspqhsdjtvbespybo
ybstbddshrsiqgjedcsqhvbio.sHvnff’hsjobxriqfdbsfqa spqhsvniobesngrosyju;
qoesvybspyqdbspqhspjombe.sJosvyibbsujonvbh,sqspyrdbsujdbsrtshyribdbhh
rabqospqhsfbvpbbosGjgsqoesHvnff.sRnvstirusvybsabovibsrtsvybshbq,sgrri
Gjgsvniobesyjhsaijhg,sanidjom,sfdqa sybqesvrsvybshno,sqorvybisdrobdc
aqhvqpqc,svyrnmysvybsdrtvjbhvsqoesvybsfijmyvbhv.

Orp,sjosaqduspbqvybi,svrshpjusjosvybsrgbosrabqosjhsqhsbqhcsvrsvyb
giqavjhbeshpjuubisqhsvrsijebsjosqshgijom-aqiijqmbsqhyrib.sFnvsvybsqptnd
drobhrubobhhsjhsjovrdbiqfdb.sVybsjovbohbsaroaboviqvjrosrtshbdtsjosvyb
ujeedbsrtshnaysqsybqivdbhhsjuubohjvc,sucsMre!spyrsaqosvbddsjv?sUqi ,
yrpspyboshqjdrihsjosqsebqesaqdusfqvybsjosvybsrgboshbq—uqi syrpsadrhbdc
vybcsynmsvybjishyjgsqoesrodcsarqhvsqdromsybishjebh.

FnvsyqesHvnffsibqddcsqfqoerobesvybsgrrisdjvvdbsobmirsvrsyjhstqvb?sOr;
ybsejesorvsubqosvr,sqvsdbqhv.sFbaqnhbsvybibspbibsvprsfrqvhsjosyjhspq b,
qoesybshnggrhbe,sorsernfv,svyqvsvybcsprndesrtsarnihbsarubsngsvrsGjg
zbicslnja dc,sqoesgja syjusng;svyrnmy,sjoebbe,shnaysarohjebiqvjroh
vrpqiehsrqihuboskbrgqiejwbesvyirnmysvybjisrposvjujejvc,sjhsorvsqdpqch
uqojtbhvbesfcsvybsynovbihsjosqddshjujdqisjohvqoabh;sqoeshnaysjohvqoabh
orvsnotiblnbovdcsraani;sqdurhvsjozqijqfdcsjosvybstjhybic,sqsarpqie,shr
aqddbe,sjhsuqi bespjvysvybshqubsinvydbhhsebvbhvqvjrosgbandjqisvr
ujdjvqicsoqzjbhsqoesqiujbh.

Fnvsjvshrsyqggbobe,svyqvsvyrhbsfrqvh,spjvyrnvshbbjomsGjg,shneebodc
hgcjomspyqdbhsadrhbsvrsvybusrosrobshjeb,svniobe,sqoesmqzbsayqhb;sqoe
Hvnff’hsfrqvspqhsorpshrstqisqpqc,sqoesybsqoesqddsyjhsaibpshrsjovbov
ngrosyjhstjhy,svyqvsGjg’hsijombesyrijwrosfbmqosvrsbxgqoesqirnoesyju
ujhbiqfdc.sFcsvybsubibhvsayqoabsvybshyjgsjvhbdtsqvsdqhvsibhanbesyju;
fnvstirusvyqvsyrnisvybsdjvvdbsobmirspbovsqfrnvsvybseba sqosjejrv;shnay,
qvsdbqhv,svybcshqjesybspqh.sVybshbqsyqeskbbijomdcs bgvsyjhstjojvbsfrec
ng,sfnvseirpobesvybsjotjojvbsrtsyjhshrnd.sOrvseirpobesbovjibdc,svyrnmy.
Iqvybisaqiijbeserposqdjzbsvrsproeirnhsebgvyh,spybibshviqombshyqgbhsrt
vybsnopqigbesgijuqdspridesmdjebesvrsqoestirsfbtribsyjhsgqhhjzbsbcbh;
qoesvybsujhbi-ubiuqo,sPjheru,sibzbqdbesyjhsyrqiebesybqgh;sqoesquromsvyb
krcrnh,sybqivdbhh,sbzbi-knzbojdbsbvbiojvjbh,sGjgshqpsvybsundvjvnejornh,
Mre-ruojgibhbov,sariqdsjohbavh,svyqvsrnvsrtsvybstjiuqubovsrtspqvbih
ybqzbesvybsardrhhqdsrifh.sYbshqpsMre’hstrrvsngrosvybsvibqedbsrtsvyb
drru,sqoeshgr bsjv;sqoesvybibtribsyjhshyjguqvbhsaqddbesyjusuqe.sHr
uqo’hsjohqojvcsjhsybqzbo’hshbohb;sqoespqoebijomstirusqddsurivqdsibqhro,
uqosarubhsqvsdqhvsvrsvyqvsabdbhvjqdsvyrnmyv,spyjay,svrsibqhro,sjh
qfhniesqoestiqovja;sqoespbqdsrisprb,stbbdhsvybosnoarugirujhbe,
joejttbibovsqhsyjhsMre.

Trisvybsibhv,sfdqubsorvsHvnffsvrrsyqiedc.sVybsvyjomsjhsaruurosjosvyqv
tjhybic;sqoesjosvybshblnbdsrtsvybsoqiiqvjzb,sjvspjddsvybosfbshbbospyqv
dj bsqfqoeroubovsfbtbddsuchbdt.


AYQGVBIs94.sQsHlnbbwbsrtsvybsYqoe.

VyqvspyqdbsrtsHvnff’h,shrsebqidcsgniayqhbe,spqhsendcsfirnmyvsvrsvyb
Gblnre’hshjeb,spybibsqddsvyrhbsanvvjomsqoesyrjhvjomsrgbiqvjroh
gibzjrnhdcsebvqjdbe,spbibsibmndqidcsmrobsvyirnmy,sbzbosvrsvybsfqdjomsrt
vybsYbjebdfnimysVno,srisAqhb.

Pyjdbshrubspbibsraangjbespjvysvyjhsdqvvbisenvc,srvybihspbibsbugdrcbesjo
eiqmmjomsqpqcsvybsdqimbisvnfh,shrshrrosqhstjddbespjvysvybshgbiu;sqoe
pybosvybsgirgbisvjubsqiijzbe,svyjhshqubshgbiuspqhsaqibtnddcsuqojgndqvbe
bibsmrjomsvrsvybsvic-pri h,srtspyjaysqoro.

Jvsyqesarrdbesqoesaichvqddjwbesvrshnaysqsebmibb,svyqvspybo,spjvy
hbzbiqdsrvybih,sJshqvserposfbtribsqsdqimbsArohvqovjob’hsfqvysrtsjv,sJ
trnoesjvshviqombdcsaroaibvbesjovrsdnugh,sybibsqoesvybibsirddjomsqfrnv
josvybsdjlnjesgqiv.sJvspqhsrnisfnhjobhhsvrshlnbbwbsvybhbsdnughsfqa 
jovrstdnje.sQshpbbvsqoesnoavnrnhsenvc!sOrsproebisvyqvsjosrdesvjubhsvyjh
hgbiuspqhshnaysqstqzrnijvbsarhubvja.sHnaysqsadbqibi!shnaysqshpbbvbobi!
hnaysqshrtvbobi!shnaysqsebdjajrnhsurdjtjbi!sQtvbisyqzjomsucsyqoehsjosjv
trisrodcsqstbpsujonvbh,sucstjombihstbdvsdj bsbbdh,sqoesfbmqo,sqhsjv
pbib,svrshbigbovjobsqoeshgjiqdjhb.

QhsJshqvsvybibsqvsucsbqhb,sairhh-dbmmbesrosvybseba ;sqtvbisvybsfjvvbi
bxbivjrosqvsvybspjoedqhh;snoebisqsfdnbsviqolnjdsh c;svybshyjgsnoebi
joerdbovshqjd,sqoesmdjejomshrshbibobdcsqdrom;sqhsJsfqvybesucsyqoeh
quromsvyrhbshrtv,smbovdbsmdrfndbhsrtsjotjdviqvbesvjhhnbh,sprzbosqdurhv
pjvyjosvybsyrni;sqhsvybcsijaydcsfir bsvrsucstjombih,sqoesejhayqimbesqdd
vybjisrgndboab,sdj bstnddcsijgbsmiqgbhsvybjispjob;sqhsJshonttbesngsvyqv
noarovqujoqvbesqiruq,—djvbiqddcsqoesvindc,sdj bsvybshubddsrtshgijom
zjrdbvh;sJsebadqibsvrscrn,svyqvstrisvybsvjubsJsdjzbesqhsjosqsunh c
ubqerp;sJstrimrvsqddsqfrnvsrnisyriijfdbsrqvy;sjosvyqvsjobxgibhhjfdb
hgbiu,sJspqhybesucsyqoehsqoesucsybqivsrtsjv;sJsqdurhvsfbmqosvrsaibejv
vybsrdesGqiqabdhqoshngbihvjvjrosvyqvshgbiusjhsrtsiqibszjivnbsjo
qddqcjomsvybsybqvsrtsqombi;spyjdbsfqvyjomsjosvyqvsfqvy,sJstbdvsejzjobdc
tibbstirusqddsjdd-pjdd,srisgbvndqoab,srisuqdjab,srtsqocshriv
pyqvhrbzbi.

Hlnbbwb!shlnbbwb!shlnbbwb!sqddsvybsuriojomsdrom;sJshlnbbwbesvyqvshgbiu
vjddsJsuchbdtsqdurhvsubdvbesjovrsjv;sJshlnbbwbesvyqvshgbiusvjddsq
hviqombshrivsrtsjohqojvcsaqubsrzbisub;sqoesJstrnoesuchbdtsnopjvvjomdc
hlnbbwjomsucsar-dqfribih’syqoehsjosjv,sujhvq jomsvybjisyqoehstrisvyb
mbovdbsmdrfndbh.sHnaysqosqfrnoejom,sqttbavjroqvb,stijboedc,sdrzjom
tbbdjomsejesvyjhsqzraqvjrosfbmbv;svyqvsqvsdqhvsJspqhsarovjonqddc
hlnbbwjomsvybjisyqoeh,sqoesdrr jomsngsjovrsvybjisbcbhshbovjubovqddc;sqh
unaysqhsvrshqc,—Ry!sucsebqistbddrpsfbjomh,spycshyrndespbsdrombisaybijhy
qocshrajqdsqabifjvjbh,sris orpsvybshdjmyvbhvsjdd-ynurisrisbozc!sArub;
dbvsnhshlnbbwbsyqoehsqddsirnoe;soqc,sdbvsnhsqddshlnbbwbsrnihbdzbhsjovr
bqaysrvybi;sdbvsnhshlnbbwbsrnihbdzbhsnojzbihqddcsjovrsvybszbicsujd sqoe
hgbiusrts joeobhh.

PrndesvyqvsJsarndes bbgshlnbbwjomsvyqvshgbiustrisbzbi!sTrisorp,shjoab
fcsuqocsgirdrombe,sibgbqvbesbxgbijboabh,sJsyqzbsgbiabjzbesvyqvsjosqdd
aqhbhsuqosunhvsbzbovnqddcsdrpbi,srisqvsdbqhvshyjtv,syjhsaroabjvsrt
qvvqjoqfdbstbdjajvc;sorvsgdqajomsjvsqocpybibsjosvybsjovbddbavsrisvyb
tqoac;sfnvsjosvybspjtb,svybsybqiv,svybsfbe,svybsvqfdb,svybshqeedb,svyb
tjibhjeb,svybsarnovic;sorpsvyqvsJsyqzbsgbiabjzbesqddsvyjh,sJsqusibqec
vrshlnbbwbsaqhbsbvbioqddc.sJosvyrnmyvhsrtsvybszjhjrohsrtsvybsojmyv,sJ
hqpsdromsirphsrtsqombdhsjosgqiqejhb,sbqayspjvysyjhsyqoehsjosqskqisrt
hgbiuqabvj.

Orp,spyjdbsejharnihjomsrtshgbiu,sjvsfbyrrzbhsvrshgbq srtsrvybisvyjomh
q josvrsjv,sjosvybsfnhjobhhsrtsgibgqijomsvybshgbiuspyqdbstrisvyb
vic-pri h.

Tjihvsarubhspyjvb-yrihb,shrsaqddbe,spyjaysjhsrfvqjobestirusvybsvqgbijom
gqivsrtsvybstjhy,sqoesqdhrstirusvybsvyja bisgrivjrohsrtsyjhstdn bh.sJv
jhsvrnmyspjvysarombqdbesvboeroh—qspqesrtsunhadb—fnvshvjddsarovqjohshrub
rjd.sQtvbisfbjomshbzbibestirusvybspyqdb,svybspyjvb-yrihbsjhstjihvsanv
jovrsgrivqfdbsrfdromhsbibsmrjomsvrsvybsujoabi.sVybcsdrr sunaysdj b
fdra hsrtsFbi hyjibsuqifdb.

Gdnu-gneejomsjhsvybsvbiusfbhvrpbesngrosabivqjostiqmubovqicsgqivhsrtsvyb
pyqdb’hstdbhy,sybibsqoesvybibsqeybijomsvrsvybsfdqo bvsrtsfdnffbi,sqoe
rtvbosgqivjajgqvjomsvrsqsarohjebiqfdbsebmibbsjosjvhsnoavnrnhobhh.sJvsjh
qsurhvsibtibhyjom,sarozjzjqd,sfbqnvjtndsrfkbavsvrsfbyrde.sQhsjvhsoqub
jugrivh,sjvsjhsrtsqosbxabbejomdcsijay,survvdbesvjov,spjvysqsfbhvibq be
horpcsqoesmrdebosmirnoe,servvbespjvyshgrvhsrtsvybsebbgbhvsaijuhrosqoe
gnigdb.sJvsjhsgdnuhsrtsinfjbh,sjosgjavnibhsrtsajviro.sHgjvbsrtsibqhro,
jvsjhsyqiesvrs bbgscrnihbdtstirusbqvjomsjv.sJsarotbhh,svyqvsroabsJ
hvrdbsfbyjoesvybstribuqhvsvrsvicsjv.sJvsvqhvbeshrubvyjomsqhsJshyrnde
aroabjzbsqsircqdsanvdbvstirusvybsvyjmysrtsDrnjhsdbsMirhsujmyvsyqzb
vqhvbe,shnggrhjomsyjusvrsyqzbsfbbos jddbesvybstjihvseqcsqtvbisvyb
zbojhroshbqhro,sqoesvyqvsgqivjandqiszbojhroshbqhrosarovbugriqicspjvysqo
nonhnqddcstjobszjovqmbsrtsvybszjobcqiehsrtsAyqugqmob.

Vybibsjhsqorvybishnfhvqoab,sqoesqszbicshjomndqisrob,spyjaysvniohsngsjo
vybsarnihbsrtsvyjhsfnhjobhh,sfnvspyjaysJstbbdsjvsvrsfbszbicsgnwwdjom
qeblnqvbdcsvrsebhaijfb.sJvsjhsaqddbeshdrfmrddjro;sqosqggbddqvjro
rijmjoqdspjvysvybspyqdbubo,sqoesbzboshrsjhsvybsoqvnibsrtsvybshnfhvqoab.
Jvsjhsqosjobttqfdcsrrwc,shvijomcsqttqji,surhvstiblnbovdcstrnoesjosvyb
vnfhsrtshgbiu,sqtvbisqsgirdrombeshlnbbwjom,sqoeshnfhblnbovsebaqovjom.sJ
yrdesjvsvrsfbsvybsproeirnhdcsvyjo,singvnibesubufiqobhsrtsvybsaqhb,
arqdbhajom.

Mniic,shrsaqddbe,sjhsqsvbiusgirgbidcsfbdromjomsvrsijmyvspyqdbubo,sfnv
hrubvjubhsjoajebovqddcsnhbesfcsvybshgbiustjhybiubo.sJvsebhjmoqvbhsvyb
eqi ,smdnvjornhshnfhvqoabspyjaysjhshaiqgbesrttsvybsfqa srtsvyb
Mibbodqoesrisijmyvspyqdb,sqoesunaysrtspyjaysarzbihsvybseba hsrtsvyrhb
jotbijrishrndhspyrsynovsvyqvsjmorfdbsDbzjqvyqo.

Ojggbih.sHvijavdcsvyjhspriesjhsorvsjoejmbornhsvrsvybspyqdb’h
zraqfndqic.sFnvsqhsqggdjbesfcspyqdbubo,sjvsfbarubhshr.sQspyqdbuqo’h
ojggbisjhsqshyrivstjiushvijgsrtsvboejornhshvnttsanvstirusvybsvqgbijom
gqivsrtsDbzjqvyqo’hsvqjd:sjvsqzbiqmbhsqosjoaysjosvyja obhh,sqoestrisvyb
ibhv,sjhsqfrnvsvybshjwbsrtsvybsjirosgqivsrtsqsyrb.sBembpjhbsurzbesqdrom
vybsrjdcseba ,sjvsrgbiqvbhsdj bsqsdbqvybioshlnjdmbb;sqoesfcsoqubdbhh
fdqoejhyubovh,sqhsrtsuqmja,sqddnibhsqdromspjvysjvsqddsjugnijvjbh.

Fnvsvrsdbqiosqddsqfrnvsvybhbsibaroejvbsuqvvbih,scrnisfbhvspqcsjhsqv
roabsvrsebhaboesjovrsvybsfdnffbi-irru,sqoesyqzbsqsdromsvqd spjvysjvh
jouqvbh.sVyjhsgdqabsyqhsgibzjrnhdcsfbbosubovjrobesqhsvybsibabgvqadbstri
vybsfdqo bv-gjbabh,spyboshvijgvsqoesyrjhvbestirusvybspyqdb.sPybosvyb
girgbisvjubsqiijzbhstrisanvvjomsngsjvhsarovbovh,svyjhsqgqivubovsjhsq
habobsrtsvbiirisvrsqddsvcirh,sbhgbajqddcsfcsojmyv.sRosrobshjeb,sdjvsfc
qsenddsdqovbio,sqshgqabsyqhsfbbosdbtvsadbqistrisvybspri ubo.sVybc
mbobiqddcsmrsjosgqjih,—qsgj b-qoe-mqttuqosqoesqshgqeb-uqo.sVyb
pyqdjom-gj bsjhshjujdqisvrsqstijmqvb’hsfrqiejom-pbqgrosrtsvybshqub
oqub.sVybsmqttsjhshrubvyjomsdj bsqsfrqv-yrr .sPjvysyjhsmqtt,svyb
mqttuqosyrr hsrosvrsqshybbvsrtsfdnffbi,sqoeshvijzbhsvrsyrdesjvstiru
hdjggjom,sqhsvybshyjgsgjvaybhsqoesdniaybhsqfrnv.sUbqopyjdb,svyb
hgqeb-uqoshvqoehsrosvybshybbvsjvhbdt,sgbigboejandqidcsayrggjomsjvsjovr
vybsgrivqfdbsyrihb-gjbabh.sVyjhshgqebsjhshyqigsqhsyrobsaqosuq bsjv;svyb
hgqebuqo’hstbbvsqibshyrbdbhh;svybsvyjomsybshvqoehsrospjddshrubvjubh
jiibhjhvjfdcshdjebsqpqcstirusyju,sdj bsqshdbemb.sJtsybsanvhsrttsrobsrt
yjhsrposvrbh,srisrobsrtsyjhsqhhjhvqovh’,sprndescrnsfbszbicsunay
qhvrojhybe?sVrbhsqibshaqiabsquromszbvbiqosfdnffbi-irrusubo.


AYQGVBIs95.sVybsAqhhra .

YqescrnshvbggbesrosfrqiesvybsGblnresqvsqsabivqjosknoavnibsrtsvyjh
grhv-urivbujwjomsrtsvybspyqdb;sqoesyqescrnshvirddbestripqiesojmysvyb
pjoedqhh,sgibvvcshnibsqusJsvyqvscrnsprndesyqzbshaqoobespjvysorshuqdd
anijrhjvcsqszbicshviqomb,sbojmuqvjaqdsrfkbav,spyjayscrnsprndesyqzbshbbo
vybib,sdcjomsqdromsdbomvypjhbsjosvybsdbbshanggbih.sOrvsvybsproeirnh
ajhvbiosjosvybspyqdb’hsynmbsybqe;sorvsvybsgirejmcsrtsyjhsnoyjombesdrpbi
kqp;sorvsvybsujiqadbsrtsyjhshcuubvijaqdsvqjd;sorobsrtsvybhbsprndeshr
hnigijhbscrn,sqhsyqdtsqsmdjughbsrtsvyqvsnoqaarnovqfdbsarob,—drombisvyqo
qs bovna jqosjhsvqdd,sojmysqstrrvsjosejqubvbisqvsvybsfqhb,sqoe
kbv-fdqa sqhsCrkr,svybsbfrocsjerdsrtsLnbblnbm.sQoesqosjerd,sjoebbe,sjv
jh;sri,siqvybi,sjosrdesvjubh,sjvhsdj bobhhspqh.sHnaysqosjerdsqhsvyqv
trnoesjosvybshbaibvsmirzbhsrtsLnbbosUqqayqysjosKnebq;sqoestri
prihyjggjomspyjay,s jomsQhq,sybishro,sejesebgrhbsybi,sqoesebhvircbesvyb
jerd,sqoesfniovsjvstrisqosqfrujoqvjrosqvsvybsfirr s beiro,sqhseqi dc
hbvstrivysjosvybs15vysayqgvbisrtsvybsTjihvsFrr srts jomh.

Drr sqvsvybshqjdri,saqddbesvybsujoabi,spyrsorpsarubhsqdrom,sqoe
qhhjhvbesfcsvprsqddjbh,sybqzjdcsfqa hsvybsmiqoejhhjunh,sqhsvybsuqijobih
aqddsjv,sqoespjvysfrpbeshyrndebih,shvqmmbihsrttspjvysjvsqhsjtsybspbibsq
miboqejbisaqiicjomsqsebqesaruiqebstirusvybstjbde.sBxvboejomsjvsngrosvyb
tribaqhvdbseba ,sybsorpsgirabbehsacdjoeijaqddcsvrsiburzbsjvhseqi sgbdv,
qhsqosQtijaqosynovbisvybsgbdvsrtsqsfrq.sVyjhserobsybsvniohsvybsgbdv
johjebsrnv,sdj bsqsgqovqdrrosdbm;smjzbhsjvsqsmrreshvibvayjom,shrsqh
qdurhvsvrsernfdbsjvhsejqubvbi;sqoesqvsdqhvsyqomhsjv,spbddshgibqe,sjo
vybsijmmjom,svrseic.sBibsdrom,sjvsjhsvq boserpo;spybosiburzjomshrub
vyibbstbbvsrtsjv,svrpqiehsvybsgrjovbesbxvibujvc,sqoesvybosanvvjomsvpr
hdjvhstrisqiu-yrdbhsqvsvybsrvybisboe,sybsdbomvypjhbshdjghsyjuhbdt
frejdcsjovrsjv.sVybsujoabisorpshvqoehsfbtribscrnsjozbhvbesjosvybstndd
aqorojaqdhsrtsyjhsaqddjom.sJuuburijqdsvrsqddsyjhsriebi,svyjh
jozbhvjvnibsqdrobspjddsqeblnqvbdcsgirvbavsyju,spyjdbsbugdrcbesjosvyb
gbandjqistnoavjrohsrtsyjhsrttjab.

Vyqvsrttjabsarohjhvhsjosujoajomsvybsyrihb-gjbabhsrtsfdnffbistrisvyb
grvh;sqosrgbiqvjrospyjaysjhsaroenavbesqvsqsanijrnhsprrebosyrihb,
gdqovbesboepjhbsqmqjohvsvybsfndpqi h,sqoespjvysqsaqgqajrnhsvnfsfbobqvy
jv,sjovrspyjaysvybsujoabesgjbabhseirg,stqhvsqhsvybshybbvhstirusqsiqgv
riqvri’hsebh .sQiiqcbesjosebabovsfdqa ;sraangcjomsqsarohgjanrnhsgndgjv;
jovbovsrosfjfdbsdbqzbh;spyqvsqsaqoejeqvbstrisqosqiayfjhyrgija,spyqvsq
dqestrisqsGrgbspbibsvyjhsujoabi!*

*Fjfdbsdbqzbh!sFjfdbsdbqzbh!sVyjhsjhsvybsjozqijqfdbsaicstirusvybsuqvbh
vrsvybsujoabi.sJvsbokrjohsyjusvrsfbsaqibtnd,sqoesanvsyjhspri sjovrsqh
vyjoshdjabhsqhsgrhhjfdb,sjoqhunaysqhsfcshrserjomsvybsfnhjobhhsrt
frjdjomsrnvsvybsrjdsjhsunaysqaabdbiqvbe,sqoesjvhslnqovjvcsarohjebiqfdc
joaibqhbe,sfbhjebhsgbiyqghsjugirzjomsjvsjoslnqdjvc.


AYQGVBIs96.sVybsVic-Pri h.

Fbhjebhsybisyrjhvbesfrqvh,sqosQubijaqospyqdbisjhsrnvpqiedc
ejhvjomnjhybesfcsybisvic-pri h.sHybsgibhbovhsvybsanijrnhsqoruqdcsrtsvyb
urhvshrdjesuqhroicskrjojomspjvysrq sqoesybugsjosarohvjvnvjomsvyb
arugdbvbeshyjg.sJvsjhsqhsjtstirusvybsrgbostjbdesqsfija - jdospbib
viqohgrivbesvrsybisgdqo h.

Vybsvic-pri hsqibsgdqovbesfbvpbbosvybstribuqhvsqoesuqjouqhv,svybsurhv
irrucsgqivsrtsvybseba .sVybsvjufbihsfbobqvysqibsrtsqsgbandjqishvibomvy,
tjvvbesvrshnhvqjosvybspbjmyvsrtsqosqdurhvshrdjesuqhhsrtsfija sqoe
urivqi,shrubsvbostbbvsfcsbjmyvshlnqib,sqoestjzbsjosybjmyv.sVyb
trnoeqvjroserbhsorvsgbobviqvbsvybseba ,sfnvsvybsuqhroicsjhstjiudc
hbanibesvrsvybshnitqabsfcsgroebirnhs obbhsrtsjirosfiqajomsjvsrosqdd
hjebh,sqoeshaibpjomsjvserposvrsvybsvjufbih.sRosvybstdqo hsjvsjhsaqhbe
pjvysprre,sqoesqvsvrgsarugdbvbdcsarzbibesfcsqsdqimb,shdrgjom,sfqvvbobe
yqvaypqc.sIburzjomsvyjhsyqvayspbsbxgrhbsvybsmibqvsvic-grvh,svprsjo
onufbi,sqoesbqaysrtshbzbiqdsfqiibdh’saqgqajvc.sPybosorvsjosnhb,svybc
qibs bgvsibuqi qfdcsadbqo.sHrubvjubhsvybcsqibsgrdjhybespjvyshrqghvrob
qoeshqoe,svjddsvybcshyjobspjvyjosdj bshjdzbisgnoay-frpdh.sEnijomsvyb
ojmyv-pqvaybhshrubsacojaqdsrdeshqjdrihspjddsaiqpdsjovrsvybusqoesarjd
vybuhbdzbhsqpqcsvybibstrisqsoqg.sPyjdbsbugdrcbesjosgrdjhyjomsvybu—rob
uqosjosbqaysgrv,shjebsfcshjeb—uqocsarotjebovjqdsaruunojaqvjrohsqib
aqiijbesro,srzbisvybsjirosdjgh.sJvsjhsqsgdqabsqdhrstrisgirtrnoe
uqvybuqvjaqdsubejvqvjro.sJvspqhsjosvybsdbtvsyqoesvic-grvsrtsvybsGblnre,
pjvysvybshrqghvrobsejdjmbovdcsajiadjomsirnoesub,svyqvsJspqhstjihv
joejibavdcshvina sfcsvybsibuqi qfdbstqav,svyqvsjosmbrubvicsqddsfrejbh
mdjejomsqdromsvybsacadrje,sucshrqghvrobstrisbxqugdb,spjddsebhaboestiru
qocsgrjovsjosgibajhbdcsvybshqubsvjub.

Iburzjomsvybstjib-frqiestirusvybstirovsrtsvybsvic-pri h,svybsfqib
uqhroicsrtsvyqvshjebsjhsbxgrhbe,sgbobviqvbesfcsvybsvprsjirosurnvyhsrt
vybstnioqabh,sejibavdcsnoebiobqvysvybsgrvh.sVybhbsurnvyhsqibstjvvbe
pjvysybqzcserrihsrtsjiro.sVybsjovbohbsybqvsrtsvybstjibsjhsgibzbovbe
tirusaruunojaqvjomsjvhbdtsvrsvybseba ,sfcsubqohsrtsqshyqddrpsibhbizrji
bxvboejomsnoebisvybsbovjibsjoadrhbeshnitqabsrtsvybspri h.sFcsqsvnoobd
johbivbesqvsvybsibqi,svyjhsibhbizrjisjhs bgvsibgdbojhybespjvyspqvbisqh
tqhvsqhsjvsbzqgriqvbh.sVybibsqibsorsbxvbioqdsayjuobch;svybcsrgbosejibav
tirusvybsibqispqdd.sQoesybibsdbvsnhsmrsfqa strisqsurubov.

Jvspqhsqfrnvsojobsr’adra sqvsojmyvsvyqvsvybsGblnre’hsvic-pri hspbib
tjihvshvqivbesrosvyjhsgibhbovszrcqmb.sJvsfbdrombesvrsHvnffsvrsrzbihbb
vybsfnhjobhh.

“Qddsibqecsvybib?sRttsyqvay,svybo,sqoeshvqivsybi.sCrnsarr ,stjibsvyb
pri h.”sVyjhspqhsqosbqhcsvyjom,strisvybsaqigbovbisyqesfbbosvyinhvjom
yjhshyqzjomhsjovrsvybstnioqabsvyirnmyrnvsvybsgqhhqmb.sYbibsfbsjvshqje
vyqvsjosqspyqdjomszrcqmbsvybstjihvstjibsjosvybsvic-pri hsyqhsvrsfbstbe
trisqsvjubspjvysprre.sQtvbisvyqvsorsprresjhsnhbe,sbxabgvsqhsqsubqohsrt
lnja sjmojvjrosvrsvybshvqgdbstnbd.sJosqsprie,sqtvbisfbjomsvijbesrnv,
vybsaijhg,shyijzbddbesfdnffbi,sorpsaqddbeshaiqghsristijvvbih,shvjdd
arovqjohsarohjebiqfdbsrtsjvhsnoavnrnhsgirgbivjbh.sVybhbstijvvbihstbbe
vybstdqubh.sDj bsqsgdbvyrijasfniojomsuqivci,srisqshbdt-arohnujom
ujhqovyirgb,sroabsjmojvbe,svybspyqdbshnggdjbhsyjhsrpostnbdsqoesfniohsfc
yjhsrposfrec.sPrndesvyqvsybsarohnubesyjhsrposhur b!strisyjhshur bsjh
yriijfdbsvrsjoyqdb,sqoesjoyqdbsjvscrnsunhv,sqoesorvsrodcsvyqv,sfnvscrn
unhvsdjzbsjosjvstrisvybsvjub.sJvsyqhsqosnohgbq qfdb,spjde,sYjoerrsreri
qfrnvsjv,shnaysqhsuqcsdni sjosvybszjajojvcsrtstnobibqdsgcibh.sJvshubddh
dj bsvybsdbtvspjomsrtsvybseqcsrtsknemubov;sjvsjhsqosqimnubovstrisvyb
gjv.

Fcsujeojmyvsvybspri hspbibsjostnddsrgbiqvjro.sPbspbibsadbqistirusvyb
aqiaqhb;shqjdsyqesfbbosuqeb;svybspjoespqhstibhybojom;svybspjdesrabqo
eqi obhhspqhsjovbohb.sFnvsvyqvseqi obhhspqhsdja besngsfcsvybstjbiab
tdqubh,spyjaysqvsjovbizqdhstri bestrivystirusvybshrrvcstdnbh,sqoe
jddnujoqvbesbzbicsdrtvcsirgbsjosvybsijmmjom,sqhspjvysvybstqubesMibb 
tjib.sVybsfniojomshyjgseirzbsro,sqhsjtsiburihbdbhhdcsaruujhhjrobesvr
hrubszbombtndsebbe.sHrsvybsgjvaysqoeshndgyni-tibjmyvbesfijmhsrtsvyb
frdesYceijrvb,sAqoqijh,sjhhnjomstirusvybjisujeojmyvsyqifrih,spjvysfirqe
hybbvhsrtstdqubstrishqjdh,sfribserposngrosvybsVni jhystijmqvbh,sqoe
trdebesvybusjosarotdqmiqvjroh.

Vybsyqvay,siburzbestirusvybsvrgsrtsvybspri h,sorpsqttriebesqspjeb
ybqivysjostirovsrtsvybu.sHvqoejomsrosvyjhspbibsvybsVqivqibqoshyqgbhsrt
vybsgqmqosyqigrrobbih,sqdpqchsvybspyqdb-hyjg’hshvr bih.sPjvysynmb
girombesgrdbhsvybcsgjvaybesyjhhjomsuqhhbhsrtsfdnffbisjovrsvybshaqdejom
grvh,srishvjiibesngsvybstjibhsfbobqvy,svjddsvybshoq cstdqubhseqivbe,
anidjom,srnvsrtsvybserrihsvrsaqvaysvybusfcsvybstbbv.sVybshur bsirddbe
qpqcsjoshnddbosybqgh.sVrsbzbicsgjvaysrtsvybshyjgsvybibspqhsqsgjvaysrt
vybsfrjdjomsrjd,spyjayshbbubesqddsbqmbiobhhsvrsdbqgsjovrsvybjistqabh.
Rggrhjvbsvybsurnvysrtsvybspri h,srosvybstnivybishjebsrtsvybspjebsprrebo
ybqivy,spqhsvybspjoedqhh.sVyjhshbizbestrisqshbq-hrtq.sYbibsdrnombesvyb
pqvay,spybosorvsrvybipjhbsbugdrcbe,sdrr jomsjovrsvybsibesybqvsrtsvyb
tjib,svjddsvybjisbcbhstbdvshariaybesjosvybjisybqeh.sVybjisvqpoc
tbqvnibh,sorpsqddsfbmijubespjvyshur bsqoeshpbqv,svybjisuqvvbesfbqieh,
qoesvybsaroviqhvjomsfqifqijasfijddjqoacsrtsvybjisvbbvy,sqddsvybhbspbib
hviqombdcsibzbqdbesjosvybsaqgijajrnhsbufdqwrojomhsrtsvybspri h.sQhsvybc
oqiiqvbesvrsbqaysrvybisvybjisnoyrdcsqezbovnibh,svybjisvqdbhsrtsvbiiri
vrdesjospriehsrtsujivy;sqhsvybjisnoajzjdjwbesdqnmyvbistri besngpqieh
rnvsrtsvybu,sdj bsvybstdqubhstirusvybstnioqab;sqhsvrsqoestir,sjosvybji
tirov,svybsyqigrrobbihspjdedcsmbhvjandqvbespjvysvybjisynmbsgirombe
tri hsqoesejggbih;sqhsvybspjoesyrpdbesro,sqoesvybshbqsdbqgbe,sqoesvyb
hyjgsmirqobesqoesejzbe,sqoescbvshvbqetqhvdcshyrvsybisibesybddstnivybi
qoestnivybisjovrsvybsfdqa obhhsrtsvybshbqsqoesvybsojmyv,sqoeshariotnddc
ayqugbesvybspyjvbsfrobsjosybisurnvy,sqoeszjajrnhdcshgqvsirnoesybisro
qddshjebh;svybosvybsinhyjomsGblnre,stibjmyvbespjvyshqzqmbh,sqoesdqebo
pjvystjib,sqoesfniojomsqsarighb,sqoesgdnomjomsjovrsvyqvsfdqa obhhsrt
eqi obhh,shbbubesvybsuqvbijqdsarnovbigqivsrtsybisuroruqojqasaruuqoebi’h
hrnd.

Hrshbbubesjvsvrsub,sqhsJshvrresqvsybisybdu,sqoestrisdromsyrnihshjdbovdc
mnjebesvybspqcsrtsvyjhstjib-hyjgsrosvybshbq.sPiqggbe,strisvyqv
jovbizqd,sjoseqi obhhsuchbdt,sJsfnvsvybsfbvvbishqpsvybsibeobhh,svyb
uqeobhh,svybsmyqhvdjobhhsrtsrvybih.sVybsarovjonqdshjmyvsrtsvybstjboe
hyqgbhsfbtribsub,saqgbijomsyqdtsjoshur bsqoesyqdtsjostjib,svybhbsqv
dqhvsfbmqvs joeibeszjhjrohsjosucshrnd,shrshrrosqhsJsfbmqosvrscjbdesvr
vyqvsnoqaarnovqfdbseirphjobhhspyjaysbzbisprndesarubsrzbisubsqvsq
ujeojmyvsybdu.

Fnvsvyqvsojmyv,sjosgqivjandqi,sqshviqombs(qoesbzbishjoabsjobxgdjaqfdb)
vyjomsraaniibesvrsub.sHvqivjomstirusqsfijbtshvqoejomshdbbg,sJspqh
yriijfdcsarohajrnhsrtshrubvyjomstqvqddcspirom.sVybskqp-frobsvjddbi
hurvbsucshjeb,spyjaysdbqobesqmqjohvsjv;sjosucsbqihspqhsvybsdrpsynusrt
hqjdh,sknhvsfbmjoojomsvrshyq bsjosvybspjoe;sJsvyrnmyvsucsbcbhspbib
rgbo;sJspqhsyqdtsarohajrnhsrtsgnvvjomsucstjombihsvrsvybsdjehsqoe
ubayqojaqddcshvibvayjomsvybushvjddstnivybisqgqiv.sFnv,shgjvbsrtsqdd
vyjh,sJsarndeshbbsorsarugqhhsfbtribsubsvrshvbbisfc;svyrnmysjvshbbube
fnvsqsujonvbshjoabsJsyqesfbbospqvayjomsvybsaqie,sfcsvybshvbqecsfjooqadb
dqugsjddnujoqvjomsjv.sOrvyjomshbbubesfbtribsubsfnvsqskbvsmdrru,sorpsqoe
vybosuqebsmyqhvdcsfcstdqhybhsrtsibeobhh.sNggbiurhvspqhsvybsjugibhhjro,
vyqvspyqvbzbishpjtv,sinhyjomsvyjomsJshvrresrospqhsorvshrsunaysfrnoesvr
qocsyqzbosqybqesqhsinhyjomstirusqddsyqzbohsqhvbio.sQshvqi ,sfbpjdebibe
tbbdjom,sqhsrtsebqvy,saqubsrzbisub.sArozndhjzbdcsucsyqoehsmiqhgbesvyb
vjddbi,sfnvspjvysvybsaiqwcsaroabjvsvyqvsvybsvjddbispqh,shrubyrp,sjo
hrubsboayqovbespqc,sjozbivbe.sUcsMre!spyqvsjhsvybsuqvvbispjvysub?
vyrnmyvsJ.sDr!sjosucsfijbtshdbbgsJsyqesvniobesuchbdtsqfrnv,sqoespqh
tirovjomsvybshyjg’hshvbio,spjvysucsfqa svrsybisgirpsqoesvybsarugqhh.sJo
qosjohvqovsJstqabesfqa ,sknhvsjosvjubsvrsgibzbovsvybszbhhbdstirustdcjom
ngsjovrsvybspjoe,sqoeszbicsgirfqfdcsaqghjwjomsybi.sYrpsmdqesqoesyrp
miqvbtndsvybsibdjbtstirusvyjhsnooqvniqdsyqddnajoqvjrosrtsvybsojmyv,sqoe
vybstqvqdsarovjomboacsrtsfbjomsfirnmyvsfcsvybsdbb!

Drr sorvsvrrsdromsjosvybstqabsrtsvybstjib,sRsuqo!sObzbiseibquspjvysvyc
yqoesrosvybsybdu!sVniosorvsvycsfqa svrsvybsarugqhh;sqaabgvsvybstjihv
yjovsrtsvybsyjvayjomsvjddbi;sfbdjbzbsorvsvybsqivjtjajqdstjib,spybosjvh
ibeobhhsuq bhsqddsvyjomhsdrr smyqhvdc.sVr-uriirp,sjosvybsoqvniqdshno,
vybsh jbhspjddsfbsfijmyv;svyrhbspyrsmdqibesdj bsebzjdhsjosvybstri jom
tdqubh,svybsuriospjddshyrpsjostqisrvybi,sqvsdbqhvsmbovdbi,sibdjbt;svyb
mdrijrnh,smrdebo,smdqeshno,svybsrodcsvinbsdqug—qddsrvybihsfnvsdjqih!

ObzbivybdbhhsvybshnosyjebhsorvsZjimjojq’hsEjhuqdsHpqug,sorisIrub’h
qaanihbesAqugqmoq,sorispjebsHqyqiq,sorisqddsvybsujddjrohsrtsujdbhsrt
ebhbivhsqoesrtsmijbthsfbobqvysvybsurro.sVybshnosyjebhsorvsvybsrabqo,
pyjaysjhsvybseqi shjebsrtsvyjhsbqivy,sqoespyjaysjhsvprsvyjiehsrtsvyjh
bqivy.sHr,svybibtrib,svyqvsurivqdsuqospyrsyqvysuribsrtskrcsvyqoshriirp
josyju,svyqvsurivqdsuqosaqoorvsfbsvinb—orvsvinb,srisnoebzbdrgbe.sPjvy
frr hsvybshqub.sVybsvinbhvsrtsqddsubospqhsvybsUqosrtsHriirph,sqoesvyb
vinbhvsrtsqddsfrr hsjhsHrdruro’h,sqoesBaadbhjqhvbhsjhsvybstjobsyquubibe
hvbbdsrtsprb.s“Qddsjhszqojvc.”sQDD.sVyjhspjdtndspridesyqvysorvsmrvsyrde
rtsnoayijhvjqosHrdruro’hspjheruscbv.sFnvsybspyrserembhsyrhgjvqdhsqoe
kqjdh,sqoespqd hstqhvsairhhjomsmiqzbcqieh,sqoesprndesiqvybisvqd srt
rgbiqhsvyqosybdd;saqddhsArpgbi,sCrnom,sGqhaqd,sIrnhhbqn,sgrrisebzjdh
qddsrtshja subo;sqoesvyirnmyrnvsqsaqib-tibbsdjtbvjubshpbqihsfcsIqfbdqjh
qhsgqhhjomspjhb,sqoesvybibtribskrddc;—orvsvyqvsuqosjhstjvvbesvrshjv
erposrosvruf-hvrobh,sqoesfibq svybsmibbosequgsurndespjvysnotqvyruqfdc
proeirnhsHrdruro.

FnvsbzbosHrdruro,sybshqch,s“vybsuqosvyqvspqoebibvysrnvsrtsvybspqcsrt
noebihvqoejomshyqddsibuqjo”s(_j.b._,sbzbospyjdbsdjzjom)s“josvyb
aromibmqvjrosrtsvybsebqe.”sMjzbsorvsvychbdtsng,svybo,svrstjib,sdbhvsjv
jozbivsvybb,sebqebosvybb;sqhstrisvybsvjubsjvsejesub.sVybibsjhsqspjheru
vyqvsjhsprb;sfnvsvybibsjhsqsprbsvyqvsjhsuqeobhh.sQoesvybibsjhsq
Aqvh jddsbqmdbsjoshrubshrndhsvyqvsaqosqdj bsejzbserposjovrsvybsfdqa bhv
mrimbh,sqoeshrqisrnvsrtsvybusqmqjosqoesfbarubsjozjhjfdbsjosvybshnooc
hgqabh.sQoesbzbosjtsybstrisbzbistdjbhspjvyjosvybsmrimb,svyqvsmrimbsjh
josvybsurnovqjoh;shrsvyqvsbzbosjosyjhsdrpbhvshprrgsvybsurnovqjosbqmdb
jhshvjddsyjmybisvyqosrvybisfjiehsngrosvybsgdqjo,sbzbosvyrnmysvybcshrqi.


AYQGVBIs97.sVybsDqug.

YqescrnsebhaboebestirusvybsGblnre’hsvic-pri hsvrsvybsGblnre’h
tribaqhvdb,spybibsvybsrttsenvcspqvayspbibshdbbgjom,strisrobshjomdb
urubovscrnsprndesyqzbsqdurhvsvyrnmyvscrnspbibshvqoejomsjoshrub
jddnujoqvbeshyijobsrtsaqorojwbes jomhsqoesarnohbddrih.sVybibsvybcsdqc
josvybjisvijqomndqisrq boszqndvh,sbqaysuqijobisqsayjhbddbesunvbobhh;sq
haribsrtsdqughstdqhyjomsngrosyjhsyrrebesbcbh.

Josubiayqovubo,srjdstrisvybshqjdrisjhsuribshaqiabsvyqosvybsujd srt
lnbboh.sVrseibhhsjosvybseqi ,sqoesbqvsjosvybseqi ,sqoeshvnufdbsjo
eqi obhhsvrsyjhsgqddbv,svyjhsjhsyjhsnhnqdsdrv.sFnvsvybspyqdbuqo,sqhsyb
hbb hsvybstrresrtsdjmyv,shrsybsdjzbhsjosdjmyv.sYbsuq bhsyjhsfbivysqo
Qdqeejo’hsdqug,sqoesdqchsyjuserposjosjv;shrsvyqvsjosvybsgjvayjbhvsojmyv
vybshyjg’hsfdqa synddshvjddsyrnhbhsqosjddnujoqvjro.

Hbbspjvyspyqvsbovjibstibberusvybspyqdbuqosvq bhsyjhsyqoetndsrt
dqugh—rtvbosfnvsrdesfrvvdbhsqoeszjqdh,svyrnmy—vrsvybsarggbisarrdbisqv
vybsvic-pri h,sqoesibgdbojhybhsvybusvybib,sqhsunmhsrtsqdbsqvsqszqv.sYb
fnioh,svrr,svybsgnibhvsrtsrjd,sjosjvhsnouqontqavnibe,sqoe,svybibtrib,
nozjvjqvbeshvqvb;sqstdnjesno orposvrshrdqi,sdnoqi,srisqhviqd
arovijzqoabhsqhyrib.sJvsjhshpbbvsqhsbqidcsmiqhhsfnvvbisjosQgijd.sYb
mrbhsqoesynovhstrisyjhsrjd,shrsqhsvrsfbshnibsrtsjvhstibhyobhhsqoe
mbonjobobhh,sbzbosqhsvybsviqzbddbisrosvybsgiqjijbsynovhsngsyjhsrpo
hnggbisrtsmqub.


AYQGVBIs98.sHvrpjomsErposqoesAdbqijomsNg.

Qdibqecsyqhsjvsfbbosibdqvbesyrpsvybsmibqvsdbzjqvyqosjhsqtqisrtt
ebhaijbestirusvybsuqhv-ybqe;syrpsybsjhsayqhbesrzbisvybspqvbicsurrih,
qoeshdqnmyvbibesjosvybszqddbchsrtsvybsebbg;syrpsybsjhsvybosvrpbe
qdromhjebsqoesfbybqebe;sqoesyrps(rosvybsgijoajgdbspyjaysbovjvdbesvyb
ybqehuqosrtsrdesvrsvybsmqiubovhsjospyjaysvybsfbybqebespqhs jddbe)syjh
mibqvsgqeebeshnivrnvsfbarubhsvybsgirgbivcsrtsyjhsbxbanvjrobi;syrp,sjo
enbsvjub,sybsjhsaroebuobesvrsvybsgrvh,sqoe,sdj bsHyqeiqay,sUbhyqay,sqoe
Qfbeobmr,syjhshgbiuqabvj,srjd,sqoesfrobsgqhhsnohaqvybesvyirnmysvyb
tjib;—fnvsorpsjvsibuqjohsvrsaroadnebsvybsdqhvsayqgvbisrtsvyjhsgqivsrt
vybsebhaijgvjrosfcsibybqihjom—hjomjom,sjtsJsuqc—vybsiruqovjasgirabbejom
rtsebaqovjomsrttsyjhsrjdsjovrsvybsaqh hsqoeshvij jomsvybuserposjovrsvyb
yrde,spybibsroabsqmqjosdbzjqvyqosibvniohsvrsyjhsoqvjzbsgirtnoejvjbh,
hdjejomsqdromsfbobqvysvybshnitqabsqhsfbtrib;sfnv,sqdqh!sobzbisuribsvr
ijhbsqoesfdrp.

Pyjdbshvjddspqiu,svybsrjd,sdj bsyrvsgnoay,sjhsibabjzbesjovrsvyb
hjx-fqiibdsaqh h;sqoespyjdb,sgbiyqgh,svybshyjgsjhsgjvayjomsqoesirddjom
vyjhspqcsqoesvyqvsjosvybsujeojmyvshbq,svybsboriurnhsaqh hsqibshdbpbe
irnoesqoesybqebesrzbi,sboestrisboe,sqoeshrubvjubhsgbijdrnhdcsharrv
qairhhsvybshdjggbicseba ,sdj bshrsuqocsdqoeshdjebh,svjddsqvsdqhv
uqo-yqoedbesqoeshvqcbesjosvybjisarnihb;sqoesqddsirnoesvybsyrrgh,siqg,
iqg,smrsqhsuqocsyquubihsqhsaqosgdqcsngrosvybu,strisorp,s_bxsrttjajr_,
bzbicshqjdrisjhsqsarrgbi.

Qvsdbomvy,spybosvybsdqhvsgjovsjhsaqh be,sqoesqddsjhsarrd,svybosvyb
mibqvsyqvaypqchsqibsnohbqdbe,svybsfrpbdhsrtsvybshyjgsqibsvyirposrgbo,
qoeserposmrsvybsaqh hsvrsvybjistjoqdsibhvsjosvybshbq.sVyjhserob,svyb
yqvaybhsqibsibgdqabe,sqoesybiubvjaqddcsadrhbe,sdj bsqsadrhbvspqddbesng.

Josvybshgbiustjhybic,svyjhsjhsgbiyqghsrobsrtsvybsurhvsibuqi qfdb
joajebovhsjosqddsvybsfnhjobhhsrtspyqdjom.sRobseqcsvybsgdqo hshvibqu
pjvystibhybvhsrtsfdrresqoesrjd;srosvybshqaibeslnqivbi-eba sboriurnh
uqhhbhsrtsvybspyqdb’hsybqesqibsgirtqobdcsgjdbe;smibqvsinhvcsaqh hsdjb
qfrnv,sqhsjosqsfibpbicscqie;svybshur bstirusvybsvic-pri hsyqhsfbhrrvbe
qddsvybsfndpqi h;svybsuqijobihsmrsqfrnvshnttnhbespjvysnoavnrnhobhh;svyb
bovjibshyjgshbbuhsmibqvsdbzjqvyqosyjuhbdt;spyjdbsrosqddsyqoehsvybsejo
jhsebqtbojom.

Fnvsqseqcsrisvprsqtvbi,scrnsdrr sqfrnvscrn,sqoesgija scrnisbqihsjosvyjh
hbdt-hqubshyjg;sqoespbibsjvsorvstrisvybsvbdd-vqdbsfrqvhsqoesvic-pri h,
crnsprndesqddsfnvshpbqiscrnsvireshrubshjdbovsubiayqovszbhhbd,spjvysq
urhvshaingndrnhdcsobqvsaruuqoebi.sVybsnouqontqavnibeshgbiusrjd
grhhbhhbhsqshjomndqidcsadbqohjomszjivnb.sVyjhsjhsvybsibqhrospycsvyb
eba hsobzbisdrr shrspyjvbsqhsknhvsqtvbispyqvsvybcsaqddsqosqttqjisrt
rjd.sFbhjebh,stirusvybsqhybhsrtsvybsfniobeshaiqghsrtsvybspyqdb,sq
grvbovsdcbsjhsibqejdcsuqeb;sqoespybobzbisqocsqeybhjzbobhhstirusvybsfqa 
rtsvybspyqdbsibuqjohsadjomjomsvrsvybshjeb,svyqvsdcbslnja dc
bxvbiujoqvbhsjv.sYqoehsmrsejdjmbovdcsqdromsvybsfndpqi h,sqoespjvy
fna bvhsrtspqvbisqoesiqmhsibhvribsvybusvrsvybjistnddsvjejobhh.sVybshrrv
jhsfinhybestirusvybsdrpbisijmmjom.sQddsvybsonubirnhsjugdbubovhspyjay
yqzbsfbbosjosnhbsqibsdj bpjhbstqjvytnddcsadbqohbesqoesgnvsqpqc.sVyb
mibqvsyqvaysjhshainffbesqoesgdqabesngrosvybsvic-pri h,sarugdbvbdc
yjejomsvybsgrvh;sbzbicsaqh sjhsrnvsrtshjmyv;sqddsvqa dbhsqibsarjdbesjo
nohbbosorr h;sqoespybosfcsvybsarufjobesqoeshjundvqobrnhsjoenhvicsrt
qdurhvsvybsbovjibshyjg’hsarugqoc,svybspyrdbsrtsvyjhsarohajbovjrnhsenvc
jhsqvsdqhvsaroadnebe,svybosvybsaibpsvybuhbdzbhsgirabbesvrsvybjisrpo
qfdnvjroh;shyjtvsvybuhbdzbhstirusvrgsvrsvrb;sqoestjoqddcsjhhnbsvrsvyb
juuqandqvbseba ,stibhysqoesqddsqmdrp,sqhsfijebmirruhsobp-dbqgbestiru
rnvsvybseqjovjbhvsYrddqoe.

Orp,spjvysbdqvbeshvbg,svybcsgqabsvybsgdqo hsjosvprhsqoesvyibbh,sqoe
ynurirnhdcsejharnihbsrtsgqidrih,shrtqh,saqigbvh,sqoestjobsaqufijah;
girgrhbsvrsuqvsvybseba ;svyjo srtsyqzjomsyqomjomsvrsvybsvrg;srfkbavsorv
vrsvq jomsvbqsfcsurrodjmyvsrosvybsgjqwwqsrtsvybstribaqhvdb.sVrsyjovsvr
hnaysunh besuqijobihsrtsrjd,sqoesfrob,sqoesfdnffbi,spbibsdjvvdbshyriv
rtsqneqajvc.sVybcs orpsorvsvybsvyjomscrnsejhvqovdcsqddnebsvr.sQpqc,sqoe
fijomsnhsoqg joh!

Fnvsuqi :sqdrtvsvybib,sqvsvybsvyibbsuqhvsybqeh,shvqoesvyibbsubosjovbov
roshgcjomsrnvsuribspyqdbh,spyjay,sjtsaqnmyv,sjotqddjfdcspjddsqmqjoshrjd
vybsrdesrq bostniojvnib,sqoeseirgsqvsdbqhvsrobshuqddsmibqhb-hgrv
hrubpybib.sCbh;sqoesuqocsjhsvybsvjub,spybo,sqtvbisvybshbzbibhv
nojovbiingvbesdqfrih,spyjays orpsorsojmyv;sarovjonjomshviqjmyvsvyirnmy
trisojobvc-hjxsyrnih;spybostirusvybsfrqv,spybibsvybcsyqzbshpbddbesvybji
pijhvhspjvysqddseqcsirpjomsrosvybsDjob,—vybcsrodcshvbgsvrsvybseba svr
aqiicszqhvsayqjoh,sqoesybqzbsvybsybqzcspjoedqhh,sqoesanvsqoeshdqhy,
cbq,sqoesjosvybjiszbicshpbqvjomhsvrsfbshur besqoesfniobesqobpsfcsvyb
arufjobestjibhsrtsvybsblnqvrijqdshnosqoesvybsblnqvrijqdsvic-pri h;
pybo,srosvybsybbdsrtsqddsvyjh,svybcsyqzbstjoqddcsfbhvjiibesvybuhbdzbh
vrsadbqohbsvybshyjg,sqoesuq bsqshgrvdbhhseqjicsirrusrtsjv;suqocsjhsvyb
vjubsvybsgrristbddrph,sknhvsfnvvrojomsvybsoba hsrtsvybjisadbqostira h,
qibshvqivdbesfcsvybsaicsrts“Vybibshybsfdrph!”sqoesqpqcsvybcstdcsvr
tjmyvsqorvybispyqdb,sqoesmrsvyirnmysvybspyrdbspbqicsvyjomsqmqjo.sRy!suc
tijboeh,sfnvsvyjhsjhsuqo- jddjom!sCbvsvyjhsjhsdjtb.sTrisyqiedcsyqzbspb
urivqdhsfcsdromsvrjdjomhsbxviqavbestirusvyjhspride’hszqhvsfnd sjvh
huqddsfnvszqdnqfdbshgbiu;sqoesvybo,spjvyspbqicsgqvjboab,sadbqohbe
rnihbdzbhstirusjvhsebtjdbubovh,sqoesdbqiobesvrsdjzbsybibsjosadbqo
vqfbioqadbhsrtsvybshrnd;syqiedcsjhsvyjhserob,spybo—_Vybibshyb
fdrph!_—vybsmyrhvsjhshgrnvbesng,sqoesqpqcspbshqjdsvrstjmyvshrubsrvybi
pride,sqoesmrsvyirnmyscrnomsdjtb’hsrdesirnvjobsqmqjo.

Ry!svybsubvbughcayrhjh!sRy!sGcvyqmriqh,svyqvsjosfijmyvsMibbab,svpr
vyrnhqoescbqihsqmr,sejesejb,shrsmrre,shrspjhb,shrsujde;sJshqjdbespjvy
vybbsqdromsvybsGbinzjqosarqhvsdqhvszrcqmb—qoe,strrdjhysqhsJsqu,svqnmyv
vybb,sqsmibboshjugdbsfrc,syrpsvrshgdjabsqsirgb!


AYQGVBIs99.sVybsErnfdrro.

BibsorpsjvsyqhsfbbosibdqvbesyrpsQyqfspqhsprovsvrsgqabsyjhslnqivbi-eba ,
vq jomsibmndqisvniohsqvsbjvybisdjujv,svybsfjooqadbsqoesuqjouqhv;sfnvsjo
vybsundvjgdjajvcsrtsrvybisvyjomhsiblnjijomsoqiiqvjrosjvsyqhsorvsfbbo
qeebesyrpsvyqvshrubvjubhsjosvybhbspqd h,spybosurhvsgdnombesjosyjhsurre,
ybspqhsprovsvrsgqnhbsjosvniosqvsbqayshgrv,sqoeshvqoesvybibshviqombdc
bcbjomsvybsgqivjandqisrfkbavsfbtribsyju.sPybosybsyqdvbesfbtribsvyb
fjooqadb,spjvysyjhsmdqoabstqhvbobesrosvybsgrjovbesobbedbsjosvyb
arugqhh,svyqvsmdqoabshyrvsdj bsqskqzbdjospjvysvybsgrjovbesjovbohjvcsrt
yjhsgnigrhb;sqoespybosibhnujomsyjhspqd sybsqmqjosgqnhbesfbtribsvyb
uqjouqhv,svybo,sqhsvybshqubsijzbvbesmdqoabstqhvbobesngrosvybsijzbvbe
mrdesarjosvybib,sybshvjddspribsvybshqubsqhgbavsrtsoqjdbestjiuobhh,srodc
eqhybespjvysqsabivqjospjdesdromjom,sjtsorvsyrgbtndobhh.

Fnvsrobsuriojom,svniojomsvrsgqhhsvybsernfdrro,sybshbbubesvrsfbsobpdc
qvviqavbesfcsvybshviqombstjmnibhsqoesjohaijgvjrohshvqugbesrosjv,sqh
vyrnmysorpstrisvybstjihvsvjubsfbmjoojomsvrsjovbigibvstrisyjuhbdtsjo
hrubsuroruqojqaspqcspyqvbzbishjmojtjaqoabsujmyvsdni sjosvybu.sQoeshrub
abivqjoshjmojtjaqoabsdni hsjosqddsvyjomh,sbdhbsqddsvyjomhsqibsdjvvdb
privy,sqoesvybsirnoespridesjvhbdtsfnvsqosbugvcsajgybi,sbxabgvsvrshbdd
fcsvybsaqivdrqe,sqhsvybcsersyjddhsqfrnvsFrhvro,svrstjddsngshrubsuriqhh
josvybsUjd csPqc.

Orpsvyjhsernfdrrospqhsrtsgnibhv,szjimjosmrde,siq beshrubpybibsrnvsrt
vybsybqivsrtsmrimbrnhsyjddh,spyboab,sbqhvsqoespbhv,srzbismrdeboshqoeh,
vybsybqe-pqvbihsrtsuqocsqsGqavrdnhstdrph.sQoesvyrnmysorpsoqjdbesqujehv
qddsvybsinhvjobhhsrtsjirosfrdvhsqoesvybszbiejmijhsrtsarggbishgj bh,
cbv,snovrnayqfdbsqoesjuuqandqvbsvrsqocstrndobhh,sjvshvjddsgibhbizbesjvh
Lnjvrsmdrp.sOri,svyrnmysgdqabesquromhvsqsinvydbhhsaibpsqoesbzbicsyrni
gqhhbesfcsinvydbhhsyqoeh,sqoesvyirnmysvybsdjzbdromsojmyvhshyirnebespjvy
vyja seqi obhhspyjaysujmyvsarzbisqocsgjdtbijomsqggirqay,sobzbivybdbhh
bzbicshnoijhbstrnoesvybsernfdrrospybibsvybshnohbvsdbtvsjvsdqhv.sTrisjv
pqhshbvsqgqivsqoeshqoavjtjbesvrsrobsqpb-hvij jomsboe;sqoesyrpbzbi
pqovrosjosvybjishqjdrispqch,srobsqoesqdd,svybsuqijobihsibzbibesjvsqh
vybspyjvbspyqdb’hsvqdjhuqo.sHrubvjubhsvybcsvqd besjvsrzbisjosvybspbqic
pqvaysfcsojmyv,sproebijomspyrhbsjvspqhsvrsfbsqvsdqhv,sqoespybvybisyb
prndesbzbisdjzbsvrshgboesjv.

OrpsvyrhbsorfdbsmrdebosarjohsrtsHrnvysQubijaqsqibsqhsubeqdhsrtsvybshno
qoesvirgjasvr bo-gjbabh.sYbibsgqduh,sqdgqaqh,sqoeszrdaqorbh;shno’h
ejh hsqoeshvqih;sbadjgvjah,syrioh-rt-gdbovc,sqoesijaysfqoobihspqzjom,
qibsjosdnxnijqovsgirtnhjroshvqugbe;shrsvyqvsvybsgibajrnhsmrdeshbbuh
qdurhvsvrsebijzbsqosqeebesgibajrnhobhhsqoesboyqoajomsmdrijbh,sfc
gqhhjomsvyirnmysvyrhbstqoacsujovh,shrsHgqojhydcsgrbvja.

JvshrsayqoabesvyqvsvybsernfdrrosrtsvybsGblnrespqhsqsurhvspbqdvyc
bxqugdbsrtsvybhbsvyjomh.sRosjvhsirnoesfriebisjvsfribsvybsdbvvbih,
IBGNFDJAQsEBDsBANQERI:sLNJVR.sHrsvyjhsfijmyvsarjosaqubstirusqsarnovic
gdqovbesjosvybsujeedbsrtsvybspride,sqoesfbobqvysvybsmibqvsblnqvri,sqoe
oqubesqtvbisjv;sqoesjvsyqesfbbosaqhvsujepqcsngsvybsQoebh,sjosvyb
nopqojomsadjubsvyqvs orphsorsqnvnuo.sWrobesfcsvyrhbsdbvvbihscrnshqpsvyb
dj bobhhsrtsvyibbsQoebh’shnuujvh;stirusrobsqstdqub;sqsvrpbisrosqorvybi;
rosvybsvyjiesqsairpjomsara ;spyjdbsqiayjomsrzbisqddspqhsqshbmubovsrt
vybsgqivjvjrobeswrejqa,svybshjmohsqddsuqi bespjvysvybjisnhnqd
aqfqdjhvjah,sqoesvybs bchvrobshnosbovbijomsvybsblnjoravjqdsgrjovsqv
Djfiq.

Fbtribsvyjhsblnqvrijqdsarjo,sQyqf,sorvsnorfhbizbesfcsrvybih,spqhsorp
gqnhjom.

“Vybib’hshrubvyjomsbzbisbmrvjhvjaqdsjosurnovqjo-vrghsqoesvrpbih,sqoe
qddsrvybismiqoesqoesdrtvcsvyjomh;sdrr sybib,—vyibbsgbq hsqhsgirnesqh
Dnajtbi.sVybstjiusvrpbi,svyqvsjhsQyqf;svybszrdaqor,svyqvsjhsQyqf;svyb
arniqmbrnh,svybsnoeqnovbe,sqoeszjavrijrnhstrpd,svyqv,svrr,sjhsQyqf;sqdd
qibsQyqf;sqoesvyjhsirnoesmrdesjhsfnvsvybsjuqmbsrtsvybsirnoebismdrfb,
pyjay,sdj bsqsuqmjajqo’hsmdqhh,svrsbqaysqoesbzbicsuqosjosvniosfnv
ujiirihsfqa syjhsrposuchvbijrnhshbdt.sMibqvsgqjoh,shuqddsmqjohstri
vyrhbspyrsqh svybspridesvrshrdzbsvybu;sjvsaqoorvshrdzbsjvhbdt.sUbvyjo h
orpsvyjhsarjobeshnospbqihsqsineecstqab;sfnvshbb!sqcb,sybsbovbihsvyb
hjmosrtshvriuh,svybsblnjorx!sqoesfnvshjxsurovyhsfbtribsybspybbdbesrnv
rtsqstriubisblnjorxsqvsQijbh!sTirushvriusvrshvriu!sHrsfbsjv,svybo.sFrio
josvyirbh,s’vjhstjvsvyqvsuqoshyrndesdjzbsjosgqjohsqoesejbsjosgqomh!sHr
fbsjv,svybo!sYbib’hshvrnvshvnttstrisprbsvrspri sro.sHrsfbsjv,svybo.”

“Orstqjicstjombihsaqosyqzbsgibhhbesvybsmrde,sfnvsebzjd’hsadqphsunhv
yqzbsdbtvsvybjisurndejomhsvybibshjoabscbhvbieqc,”suniunibesHvqifna svr
yjuhbdt,sdbqojomsqmqjohvsvybsfndpqi h.s“Vybsrdesuqoshbbuhsvrsibqe
Fbdhyqwwqi’hsqptndspijvjom.sJsyqzbsobzbisuqi besvybsarjosjohgbavjomdc.
Ybsmrbhsfbdrp;sdbvsubsibqe.sQseqi szqddbcsfbvpbbosvyibbsujmyvc,
ybqzbo-qfjejomsgbq h,svyqvsqdurhvshbbusvybsVijojvc,sjoshrubstqjov
bqivydcshcufrd.sHrsjosvyjhszqdbsrtsEbqvy,sMresmjiehsnhsirnoe;sqoesrzbi
qddsrnismdrru,svybshnosrtsIjmyvbrnhobhhshvjddshyjobhsqsfbqarosqoesq
yrgb.sJtspbsfboeserposrnisbcbh,svybseqi szqdbshyrphsybisurndecshrjd;
fnvsjtspbsdjtvsvybu,svybsfijmyvshnosubbvhsrnismdqoabsyqdtspqc,svr
aybbi.sCbv,sry,svybsmibqvshnosjhsorstjxvnib;sqoesjt,sqvsujeojmyv,spb
prndestqjoshoqvayshrubshpbbvshrdqabstirusyju,spbsmqwbstrisyjusjoszqjo!
Vyjhsarjoshgbq hspjhbdc,sujdedc,svindc,sfnvshvjddshqedcsvrsub.sJspjdd
lnjvsjv,sdbhvsVinvyshyq bsubstqdhbdc.”

“Vybibsorp’hsvybsrdesUrmnd,”shrdjdrlnjwbesHvnffsfcsvybsvic-pri h,s“yb’h
fbbosvpjmmjomsjv;sqoesvybibsmrbhsHvqifna stirusvybshqub,sqoesfrvyspjvy
tqabhspyjaysJshyrndeshqcsujmyvsfbshrubpybibspjvyjosojobstqvyruhsdrom.
Qoesqddstirusdrr jomsqvsqsgjbabsrtsmrde,spyjaysejesJsyqzbsjvsorpsro
ObmirsYjddsrisjosAridqbi’hsYrr ,sJ’esorvsdrr sqvsjvszbicsdromsbib
hgboejomsjv.sYnugy!sjosucsgrri,sjohjmojtjaqovsrgjojro,sJsibmqiesvyjhsqh
lnbbi.sJsyqzbshbbosernfdrrohsfbtribsorpsjosucszrcqmjomh;scrnisernfdrroh
rtsrdesHgqjo,scrnisernfdrrohsrtsGbin,scrnisernfdrrohsrtsAyjdj,scrni
ernfdrrohsrtsFrdjzjq,scrnisernfdrrohsrtsGrgqcqo;spjvysgdbovcsrtsmrde
urjeribhsqoesgjhvrdbh,sqoeskrbh,sqoesyqdtskrbh,sqoeslnqivbiskrbh.sPyqv
vyboshyrndesvybibsfbsjosvyjhsernfdrrosrtsvybsBlnqvrisvyqvsjhshrs jddjom
proebitnd?sFcsMrdaroeq!sdbvsubsibqesjvsroab.sYqddrq!sybib’hshjmohsqoe
proebihsvindc!sVyqv,sorp,sjhspyqvsrdesFrpejvaysjosyjhsBgjvrubsaqddhsvyb
wrejqa,sqoespyqvsucsqduqoqasfbdrpsaqddhsejvvr.sJ’ddsmbvsvybsqduqoqasqoe
qhsJsyqzbsybqiesebzjdhsaqosfbsiqjhbespjvysEqfrdd’hsqijvyubvja,sJ’ddsvic
ucsyqoesqvsiqjhjomsqsubqojomsrnvsrtsvybhbslnbbisanizjanbhsybibspjvysvyb
Uqhhqaynhbvvhsaqdboeqi.sYbib’hsvybsfrr .sDbv’hshbbsorp.sHjmohsqoe
proebih;sqoesvybshno,syb’hsqdpqchsquroms’bu.sYbu,sybu,sybu;sybibsvybc
qib—ybibsvybcsmr—qddsqdjzb:—Qijbh,srisvybsIqu;sVqninh,srisvybsFnddsqoe
Kjujuj!sybib’hsMbujojsyjuhbdt,srisvybsVpjoh.sPbdd;svybshnosybspybbdh
quroms’bu.sQcb,sybibsrosvybsarjosyb’hsknhvsairhhjomsvybsvyibhyrde
fbvpbbosvprsrtsvpbdzbshjvvjom-irruhsqddsjosqsijom.sFrr !scrnsdjbsvybib;
vybstqavsjh,scrnsfrr hsunhvs orpscrnisgdqabh.sCrn’ddsersvrsmjzbsnhsvyb
fqibspriehsqoestqavh,sfnvspbsarubsjosvrshnggdcsvybsvyrnmyvh.sVyqv’hsuc
huqddsbxgbijboab,shrstqisqhsvybsUqhhqaynhbvvhsaqdboeqi,sqoesFrpejvay’h
oqzjmqvri,sqoesEqfrdd’hsqijvyubvjasmr.sHjmohsqoesproebih,sby?sGjvcsjt
vybibsjhsorvyjomsproebitndsjoshjmoh,sqoeshjmojtjaqovsjosproebih!
Vybib’hsqsadnbshrubpybib;spqjvsqsfjv;syjhv—yqi !sFcsKrzb,sJsyqzbsjv!
Drr scrn,sErnfdrro,scrniswrejqasybibsjhsvybsdjtbsrtsuqosjosrobsirnoe
ayqgvbi;sqoesorpsJ’ddsibqesjvsrtt,shviqjmyvsrnvsrtsvybsfrr .sArub,
Qduqoqa !sVrsfbmjo:svybib’hsQijbh,srisvybsIqu—dbaybirnhserm,sybsfbmbvh
nh;svybo,sVqninh,srisvybsFndd—ybsfnughsnhsvybstjihvsvyjom;svybosMbujoj,
risvybsVpjoh—vyqvsjh,sZjivnbsqoesZjab;spbsvicsvrsibqaysZjivnb,spybosdr!
arubhsAqoabisvybsAiqf,sqoeseiqmhsnhsfqa ;sqoesybib,smrjomstirusZjivnb,
Dbr,sqsirqijomsDjro,sdjbhsjosvybsgqvy—ybsmjzbhsqstbpstjbiabsfjvbhsqoe
hnidcseqfhspjvysyjhsgqp;spbsbhaqgb,sqoesyqjdsZjimr,svybsZjimjo!svyqv’h
rnistjihvsdrzb;spbsuqiicsqoesvyjo svrsfbsyqggcstrisqcb,spybosgrgsarubh
Djfiq,srisvybsHaqdbh—yqggjobhhspbjmybesqoestrnoespqovjom;sqoespyjdbspb
qibszbicshqesqfrnvsvyqv,sDrie!syrpspbshneebodcsknug,sqhsHarigjr,srisvyb
Harigjro,shvjomhsnhsjosvybsibqi;spbsqibsanijomsvybsprnoe,spybospyqom
arubsvybsqiirphsqddsirnoe;sHqmjvvqijnh,srisvybsQiaybi,sjhsqunhjom
yjuhbdt.sQhspbsgdna srnvsvybshyqtvh,shvqoesqhjeb!sybib’hsvyb
fqvvbijom-iqu,sAqgijarionh,srisvybsMrqv;stnddsvjdv,sybsarubhsinhyjom,
qoesybqedromspbsqibsvrhhbe;spybosQlnqijnh,srisvybsPqvbi-fbqibi,sgrnih
rnvsyjhspyrdbsebdnmbsqoeseirpohsnh;sqoesvrspjoesngspjvysGjhabh,srisvyb
Tjhybh,spbshdbbg.sVybib’hsqshbiurosorp,spijvsjosyjmysybqzbo,sqoesvyb
hnosmrbhsvyirnmysjvsbzbicscbqi,sqoescbvsarubhsrnvsrtsjvsqddsqdjzbsqoe
ybqivc.sKrddjdcsyb,sqdrtvsvybib,spybbdhsvyirnmysvrjdsqoesvirnfdb;sqoe
hr,sqdrpsybib,serbhskrddcsHvnff.sRy,skrddc’hsvybspriestrisqcb!sQejbn,
Ernfdrro!sFnvshvrg;sybibsarubhsdjvvdbs jom-Grhv;serembsirnoesvyb
vic-pri h,sorp,sqoesdbv’hsybqispyqvsyb’ddsyqzbsvrshqc.sVybib;syb’h
fbtribsjv;syb’ddsrnvspjvyshrubvyjomsgibhbovdc.sHr,shr;syb’hsfbmjoojom.”

“Jshbbsorvyjomsybib,sfnvsqsirnoesvyjomsuqebsrtsmrde,sqoespyrbzbisiqjhbh
qsabivqjospyqdb,svyjhsirnoesvyjomsfbdromhsvrsyju.sHr,spyqv’hsqddsvyjh
hvqijomsfbbosqfrnv?sJvsjhsprivyshjxvbboserddqih,svyqv’hsvinb;sqoesqv
vprsabovhsvybsajmqi,svyqv’hsojobsynoeibesqoeshjxvcsajmqih.sJspro’v
hur bsejivcsgjgbhsdj bsHvnff,sfnvsJsdj bsajmqih,sqoesybib’hsojob
ynoeibesqoeshjxvcsrtsvybu;shrsybibsmrbhsTdqh sqdrtvsvrshgcs’busrnv.”

“HyqddsJsaqddsvyqvspjhbsristrrdjhy,sorp;sjtsjvsfbsibqddcspjhbsjvsyqhsq
trrdjhysdrr svrsjv;scbv,sjtsjvsfbsibqddcstrrdjhy,svybosyqhsjvsqshrivsrt
pjhbjhysdrr svrsjv.sFnv,sqzqhv;sybibsarubhsrnisrdesUqoxuqo—vybsrde
ybqihb-eijzbi,sybsunhvsyqzbsfbbo,svyqvsjh,sfbtribsybsvrr svrsvybshbq.
Ybsdntthsngsfbtribsvybsernfdrro;syqddrq,sqoesmrbhsirnoesrosvybsrvybi
hjebsrtsvybsuqhv;spyc,svybib’hsqsyrihb-hyrbsoqjdbesrosvyqvshjeb;sqoe
orpsyb’hsfqa sqmqjo;spyqvserbhsvyqvsubqo?sYqi !syb’hsunvvbijom—zrjab
dj bsqosrdesprio-rnvsarttbb-ujdd.sGija sbqih,sqoesdjhvbo!”

“JtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsfbsiqjhbe,sjvsunhvsfbsjosqsurovysqoesqseqc,spybo
vybshnoshvqoehsjoshrubsrobsrtsvybhbshjmoh.sJ’zbshvnejbeshjmoh,sqoes orp
vybjisuqi h;svybcspbibsvqnmyvsubsvprsharibscbqihsqmr,sfcsvybsrdespjvay
josArgboyqmbo.sOrp,sjospyqvshjmospjddsvybshnosvybosfb?sVybsyrihb-hyrb
hjmo;strisvybibsjvsjh,sijmyvsrggrhjvbsvybsmrde.sQoespyqv’hsvyb
yrihb-hyrbshjmo?sVybsdjrosjhsvybsyrihb-hyrbshjmo—vybsirqijomsqoe
ebzrnijomsdjro.sHyjg,srdeshyjg!sucsrdesybqeshyq bhsvrsvyjo srtsvybb.”

“Vybib’hsqorvybisiboebijomsorp;sfnvshvjddsrobsvbxv.sQddshrivhsrtsubosjo
robs joesrtspride,scrnshbb.sErembsqmqjo!sybibsarubhsLnbblnbm—qdd
vqvvrrjom—drr hsdj bsvybshjmohsrtsvybsWrejqasyjuhbdt.sPyqvshqchsvyb
Aqoojfqd?sQhsJsdjzbsyb’hsarugqijomsorvbh;sdrr jomsqvsyjhsvyjmysfrob;
vyjo hsvybshnosjhsjosvybsvyjmy,srisjosvybsaqdt,srisjosvybsfrpbdh,sJ
hnggrhb,sqhsvybsrdesprubosvqd sHnimbro’hsQhvirorucsjosvybsfqa sarnovic.
QoesfcsKrzb,syb’hstrnoeshrubvyjomsvybibsjosvybszjajojvcsrtsyjhsvyjmy—J
mnbhhsjv’hsHqmjvvqijnh,srisvybsQiaybi.sOr:sybsero’vs orpspyqvsvrsuq b
rtsvybsernfdrro;sybsvq bhsjvstrisqosrdesfnvvrosrttshrubs jom’h
virphbih.sFnv,sqhjebsqmqjo!sybibsarubhsvyqvsmyrhv-ebzjd,sTbeqddqy;svqjd
arjdbesrnvsrtshjmyvsqhsnhnqd,srq nusjosvybsvrbhsrtsyjhsgnughsqhsnhnqd.
Pyqvserbhsybshqc,spjvysvyqvsdrr srtsyjh?sQy,srodcsuq bhsqshjmosvrsvyb
hjmosqoesfrphsyjuhbdt;svybibsjhsqshnosrosvybsarjo—tjibsprihyjggbi,
ebgboesngrosjv.sYr!suribsqoesurib.sVyjhspqcsarubhsGjg—grrisfrc!sprnde
ybsyqesejbe,srisJ;syb’hsyqdtsyriijfdbsvrsub.sYbsvrrsyqhsfbbospqvayjom
qddsrtsvybhbsjovbigibvbih—uchbdtsjoadnebe—qoesdrr sorp,sybsarubhsvr
ibqe,spjvysvyqvsnobqivydcsjejrvstqab.sHvqoesqpqcsqmqjosqoesybqisyju.
Yqi !”

“Jsdrr ,scrnsdrr ,sybsdrr h;spbsdrr ,scbsdrr ,svybcsdrr .”

“Ngrosucshrnd,syb’hsfbboshvnecjomsUniiqc’hsMiquuqi!sJugirzjomsyjhsujoe,
grristbddrp!sFnvspyqv’hsvyqvsybshqchsorp—yjhv!”

“Jsdrr ,scrnsdrr ,sybsdrr h;spbsdrr ,scbsdrr ,svybcsdrr .”

“Pyc,syb’hsmbvvjomsjvsfcsybqiv—yjhv!sqmqjo.”

“Jsdrr ,scrnsdrr ,sybsdrr h;spbsdrr ,scbsdrr ,svybcsdrr .”

“Pbdd,svyqv’hstnooc.”

“QoesJ,scrn,sqoesyb;sqoespb,scb,sqoesvybc,sqibsqddsfqvh;sqoesJ’usq
airp,sbhgbajqddcspybosJshvqoesq’vrgsrtsvyjhsgjobsvibbsybib.sAqp!saqp!
aqp!saqp!saqp!saqp!sQjo’vsJsqsairp?sQoespybib’hsvybshaqib-airp?sVybib
ybshvqoeh;svprsfrobhshvna sjovrsqsgqjisrtsrdesvirphbih,sqoesvprsurib
gr besjovrsvybshdbbzbhsrtsqosrdeskqa bv.”

“Proebisjtsybsubqohsub?—arugdjubovqic!—grrisdqe!—Jsarndesmrsyqom
uchbdt.sQocspqc,strisvybsgibhbov,sJ’ddslnjvsGjg’hszjajojvc.sJsaqoshvqoe
vybsibhv,strisvybcsyqzbsgdqjospjvh;sfnvsyb’hsvrrsaiqwc-pjvvcstrisuc
hqojvc.sHr,shr,sJsdbqzbsyjusunvvbijom.”

“Ybib’hsvybshyjg’hsoqzbd,svyjhsernfdrrosybib,sqoesvybcsqibsqddsrostjib
vrsnohaibpsjv.sFnv,snohaibpscrnisoqzbd,sqoespyqv’hsvybsarohblnboab?
Vybosqmqjo,sjtsjvshvqchsybib,svyqvsjhsnmdc,svrr,strispybosqnmyv’h
oqjdbesvrsvybsuqhvsjv’hsqshjmosvyqvsvyjomhsmirpsebhgbiqvb.sYq,syq!srde
Qyqf!svybsPyjvbsPyqdb;syb’ddsoqjdscb!sVyjhsjhsqsgjobsvibb.sUcstqvybi,
josrdesVrddqoesarnovc,sanvserposqsgjobsvibbsroab,sqoestrnoesqshjdzbi
ijomsmirposrzbisjosjv;shrubsrdeseqi bc’hspbeejomsijom.sYrpsejesjvsmbv
vybib?sQoeshrsvybc’ddshqcsjosvybsibhniibavjro,spybosvybcsarubsvrstjhy
ngsvyjhsrdesuqhv,sqoestjoesqsernfdrrosdrembesjosjv,spjvysfbeebesrchvbih
trisvybshyqmmcsfqi .sRy,svybsmrde!svybsgibajrnh,sgibajrnh,smrde!svyb
mibbosujhbi’ddsyrqiescbshrro!sYjhy!syjhy!sMresmrbhs’uromsvybsprideh
fdqa fbiicjom.sArr !syr,sarr !sqoesarr snh!sKbooc!sybc,sybc,sybc,sybc,
ybc,sKbooc,sKbooc!sqoesmbvscrnisyrb-aq bserob!”


AYQGVBIs100.sDbmsqoesQiu.

VybsGblnre,srtsOqovna bv,sUbbvhsvybsHqunbdsBoebifc,srtsDroero.

“Hyjg,sqyrc!sYqhvshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

HrsaijbesQyqf,sroabsuribsyqjdjomsqshyjgshyrpjomsBomdjhysardrnih,
fbqijomserposnoebisvybshvbio.sVinugbvsvrsurnvy,svybsrdesuqospqh
hvqoejomsjosyjhsyrjhvbeslnqivbi-frqv,syjhsjzricsdbmsgdqjodcsibzbqdbesvr
vybshviqombisaqgvqjo,spyrspqhsaqibdbhhdcsibadjojomsjosyjhsrposfrqv’h
frp.sYbspqhsqseqi dc-vqoobe,sfnidc,smrre-oqvnibe,stjob-drr jomsuqo,srt
hjxvcsrisvybibqfrnvh,seibhhbesjosqshgqajrnhsirnoeqfrnv,svyqvsynomsirnoe
yjusjostbhvrrohsrtsfdnbsgjdrv-adrvy;sqoesrobsbugvcsqiusrtsvyjhskqa bv
hvibqubesfbyjoesyjusdj bsvybsfirjebibesqiusrtsqsynhhqi’hshniarqv.

“YqhvshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

“Hbbscrnsvyjh?”sqoespjvyeiqpjomsjvstirusvybstrdehsvyqvsyqesyjeebosjv,
ybsybdesngsqspyjvbsqiusrtshgbiuspyqdbsfrob,svbiujoqvjomsjosqsprrebo
ybqesdj bsqsuqddbv.

“Uqosucsfrqv!”saijbesQyqf,sjugbvnrnhdc,sqoesvrhhjomsqfrnvsvybsrqihsobqi
yju—“Hvqoesfcsvrsdrpbi!”

Josdbhhsvyqosqsujonvb,spjvyrnvslnjvvjomsyjhsdjvvdbsaiqtv,sybsqoesyjh
aibpspbibseirggbesvrsvybspqvbi,sqoespbibshrrosqdromhjebsrtsvyb
hviqombi.sFnvsybibsqsanijrnhsejttjandvcsgibhbovbesjvhbdt.sJosvyb
bxajvbubovsrtsvybsurubov,sQyqfsyqestrimrvvbosvyqvshjoabsvybsdrhhsrtsyjh
dbmsybsyqesobzbisroabshvbggbesrosfrqiesrtsqocszbhhbdsqvshbqsfnvsyjh
rpo,sqoesvybosjvspqhsqdpqchsfcsqosjombojrnhsqoeszbicsyqoecsubayqojaqd
arovijzqoabsgbandjqisvrsvybsGblnre,sqoesqsvyjomsorvsvrsfbsijmmbesqoe
hyjggbesjosqocsrvybiszbhhbdsqvsqsurubov’hspqiojom.sOrp,sjvsjhsorszbic
bqhcsuqvvbistrisqocfrec—bxabgvsvyrhbspyrsqibsqdurhvsyrnidcsnhbesvrsjv,
dj bspyqdbubo—vrsadqufbisngsqshyjg’hshjebstirusqsfrqvsrosvybsrgboshbq;
trisvybsmibqvshpbddhsorpsdjtvsvybsfrqvsyjmysngsvrpqiehsvybsfndpqi h,
qoesvybosjohvqovqobrnhdcseirgsjvsyqdtspqcserposvrsvybs bdhro.sHr,
ebgijzbesrtsrobsdbm,sqoesvybshviqombshyjgsrtsarnihbsfbjomsqdvrmbvybi
nohnggdjbespjvysvybs joedcsjozbovjro,sQyqfsorpstrnoesyjuhbdtsqfkbavdc
ibenabesvrsqsadnuhcsdqoehuqosqmqjo;syrgbdbhhdcsbcbjomsvybsnoabivqjo
ayqombtndsybjmyvsybsarndesyqiedcsyrgbsvrsqvvqjo.

Jvsyqhsfbtribsfbbosyjovbe,sgbiyqgh,svyqvsbzbicsdjvvdbsnovrpqie
ajianuhvqoabsvyqvsfbtbddsyju,sqoespyjaysjoejibavdcshgiqomstirusyjh
dna dbhhsujhyqg,sqdurhvsjozqijqfdcsjiijvqvbesrisbxqhgbiqvbesQyqf.sQoe
josvybsgibhbovsjohvqoab,sqddsvyjhspqhsybjmyvbobesfcsvybshjmyvsrtsvyb
vprsrttjabihsrtsvybshviqombshyjg,sdbqojomsrzbisvybshjeb,sfcsvyb
gbigboejandqisdqeebisrtsoqjdbesadbbvhsvybib,sqoeshpjomjomsvrpqiehsyjusq
gqjisrtsvqhvbtnddc-rioqubovbesuqo-irgbh;strisqvstjihvsvybcsejesorvshbbu
vrsfbvyjo svybusvyqvsqsrob-dbmmbesuqosunhvsfbsvrrsunaysrtsqsaijggdbsvr
nhbsvybjishbqsfqoojhvbih.sFnvsvyjhsqp pqieobhhsrodcsdqhvbesqsujonvb,
fbaqnhbsvybshviqombsaqgvqjo,srfhbizjomsqvsqsmdqoabsyrpsqttqjihshvrre,
aijbesrnv,s“Jshbb,sJshbb!—qzqhvsybqzjomsvybib!sKnug,sfrch,sqoeshpjom
rzbisvybsanvvjom-vqa db.”

Qhsmrresdna sprndesyqzbsjv,svybcsyqesyqesqspyqdbsqdromhjebsqseqcsrisvpr
gibzjrnh,sqoesvybsmibqvsvqa dbhspbibshvjddsqdrtv,sqoesvybsuqhhjzb
anizbesfdnffbi-yrr ,sorpsadbqosqoeseic,spqhshvjddsqvvqaybesvrsvybsboe.
Vyjhspqhslnja dcsdrpbibesvrsQyqf,spyrsqvsroabsarugibyboejomsjvsqdd,
hdjesyjhshrdjvqicsvyjmysjovrsvybsanizbsrtsvybsyrr s(jvspqhsdj bshjvvjom
josvybstdn bsrtsqosqoayri,srisvybsairvaysrtsqosqggdbsvibb),sqoesvybo
mjzjomsvybsprie,sybdesyjuhbdtstqhv,sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubsqdhrsybdgbesvr
yrjhvsyjhsrpospbjmyv,sfcsgnddjomsyqoe-rzbi-yqoesngrosrobsrtsvybsinoojom
gqivhsrtsvybsvqa db.sHrrosybspqhsaqibtnddcshpnomsjohjebsvybsyjmy
fndpqi h,sqoesmbovdcsdqoebesngrosvybsaqghvqosybqe.sPjvysyjhsjzricsqiu
tiqo dcsvyinhvstrivysjospbdarub,svybsrvybisaqgvqjosqezqoabe,sqoesQyqf,
gnvvjomsrnvsyjhsjzricsdbm,sqoesairhhjomsvybsjzricsqius(dj bsvpr
hprie-tjhysfdqebh)saijbesrnvsjosyjhspqdinhspqc,s“Qcb,sqcb,sybqivc!sdbv
nhshyq bsfrobhsvrmbvybi!—qosqiusqoesqsdbm!—qosqiusvyqvsobzbisaqo
hyijo ,se’cbshbb;sqoesqsdbmsvyqvsobzbisaqosino.sPybibseje’hvsvyrnshbb
vybsPyjvbsPyqdb?—yrpsdromsqmr?”

“VybsPyjvbsPyqdb,”shqjesvybsBomdjhyuqo,sgrjovjomsyjhsjzricsqiusvrpqieh
vybsBqhv,sqoesvq jomsqsinbtndshjmyvsqdromsjv,sqhsjtsjvsyqesfbbosq
vbdbhargb;s“vybibsJshqpsyju,srosvybsDjob,sdqhvshbqhro.”

“Qoesybsvrr svyqvsqiusrtt,sejesyb?”sqh besQyqf,sorpshdjejomserpostiru
vybsaqghvqo,sqoesibhvjomsrosvybsBomdjhyuqo’hshyrndebi,sqhsybsejeshr.

“Qcb,sybspqhsvybsaqnhbsrtsjv,sqvsdbqhv;sqoesvyqvsdbm,svrr?”

“Hgjosubsvybscqio,”shqjesQyqf;s“yrpspqhsjv?”

“JvspqhsvybstjihvsvjubsjosucsdjtbsvyqvsJsbzbisainjhbesrosvybsDjob,”
fbmqosvybsBomdjhyuqo.s“JspqhsjmoriqovsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsqvsvyqvsvjub.
Pbdd,srobseqcspbsdrpbibestrisqsgresrtstrnisristjzbspyqdbh,sqoesucsfrqv
tqhvbobesvrsrobsrtsvybu;sqsibmndqisajianhsyrihbsybspqh,svrr,svyqvspbov
ujddjomsqoesujddjomsirnoeshr,svyqvsucsfrqv’hsaibpsarndesrodcsvijusejhy,
fcshjvvjomsqddsvybjishvbiohsrosvybsrnvbismnopqdb.sGibhbovdcsngsfibqaybh
tirusvybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbqsqsfrnoajomsmibqvspyqdb,spjvysqsujd c-pyjvb
ybqesqoesynug,sqddsairph’stbbvsqoespijo dbh.”

“Jvspqhsyb,sjvspqhsyb!”saijbesQyqf,shneebodcsdbvvjomsrnvsyjhshnhgboebe
fibqvy.

“Qoesyqigrrohshvja jomsjosobqisyjhshvqifrqiestjo.”

“Qcb,sqcb—vybcspbibsujob—_uc_sjiroh,”saijbesQyqf,sbxndvjomdc—“fnvsro!”

“Mjzbsubsqsayqoab,svybo,”shqjesvybsBomdjhyuqo,smrre-ynuribedc.s“Pbdd,
vyjhsrdesmibqv-miqoetqvybi,spjvysvybspyjvbsybqesqoesynug,sinohsqdd
qtrqusjovrsvybsgre,sqoesmrbhsvrshoqggjomstnijrnhdcsqvsucstqhv-djob!

“Qcb,sJshbb!—pqovbesvrsgqivsjv;stibbsvybstqhv-tjhy—qosrdesvija —Js orp
yju.”

“Yrpsjvspqhsbxqavdc,”sarovjonbesvybsrob-qiubesaruuqoebi,s“Jsersorv
 orp;sfnvsjosfjvjomsvybsdjob,sjvsmrvstrndsrtsyjhsvbbvy,saqnmyvsvybib
hrubyrp;sfnvspbsejeo’vs orpsjvsvybo;shrsvyqvspybospbsqtvbipqiehsgnddbe
rosvybsdjob,sfrnoabspbsaqubsgdnugsrosvrsyjhsynug!sjohvbqesrtsvybsrvybi
pyqdb’h;svyqvspbovsrttsvrspjoepqie,sqddstdn jom.sHbbjomsyrpsuqvvbih
hvrre,sqoespyqvsqsorfdbsmibqvspyqdbsjvspqh—vybsorfdbhvsqoesfjmmbhvsJ
bzbishqp,shji,sjosucsdjtb—Jsibhrdzbesvrsaqgvnibsyju,shgjvbsrtsvyb
frjdjomsiqmbsybshbbubesvrsfbsjo.sQoesvyjo jomsvybsyqg-yqwqiesdjobsprnde
mbvsdrrhb,srisvybsvrrvysjvspqhsvqomdbesvrsujmyvseiqps(trisJsyqzbsq
ebzjdsrtsqsfrqv’hsaibpstrisqsgnddsrosqspyqdb-djob);shbbjomsqddsvyjh,sJ
hqc,sJsknugbesjovrsucstjihvsuqvb’hsfrqv—Ui.sUrnovvrg’hsybibs(fcsvyb
pqc,sAqgvqjo—Urnovvrg;sUrnovvrg—vybsaqgvqjo);—qhsJspqhshqcjom,sJsknugbe
jovrsUrnovvrg’hsfrqv,spyjay,se’cbshbb,spqhsmnopqdbsqoesmnopqdbspjvy
ujob,svybo;sqoeshoqvayjomsvybstjihvsyqigrro,sdbvsvyjhsrde
mibqv-miqoetqvybisyqzbsjv.sFnv,sDrie,sdrr scrn,shji—ybqivhsqoeshrndh
qdjzb,suqo—vybsobxvsjohvqov,sjosqskjtt,sJspqhsfdjoesqhsqsfqv—frvysbcbh
rnv—qddsfbtrmmbesqoesfbebqebobespjvysfdqa strqu—vybspyqdb’hsvqjd
drrujomshviqjmyvsngsrnvsrtsjv,sgbigboejandqisjosvybsqji,sdj bsqsuqifdb
hvbbgdb.sOrsnhbshvbiojomsqdd,svybo;sfnvsqhsJspqhsmirgjomsqvsujeeqc,
pjvysqsfdjoejomshno,sqddsairpo-kbpbdh;sqhsJspqhsmirgjom,sJshqc,sqtvbi
vybshbaroesjiro,svrsvrhhsjvsrzbifrqie—erposarubhsvybsvqjdsdj bsqsDjuq
vrpbi,sanvvjomsucsfrqvsjosvpr,sdbqzjomsbqaysyqdtsjoshgdjovbih;sqoe,
tdn bhstjihv,svybspyjvbsynugsfqa besvyirnmysvybspiba ,sqhsvyrnmysjvspqh
qddsayjgh.sPbsqddshvina srnv.sVrsbhaqgbsyjhsvbiijfdbstdqjdjomh,sJ
hbjwbesyrdesrtsucsyqigrro-grdbshvja jomsjosyju,sqoestrisqsurubovsadnom
vrsvyqvsdj bsqshna jomstjhy.sFnvsqsarufjomshbqseqhybesubsrtt,sqoesqv
vybshqubsjohvqov,svybstjhy,svq jomsrobsmrreseqivstripqieh,spbovserpo
dj bsqstdqhy;sqoesvybsfqifsrtsvyqvsanihbeshbaroesjirosvrpjomsqdromsobqi
ubsaqnmyvsubsybib”s(adqggjomsyjhsyqoesknhvsfbdrpsyjhshyrndebi);s“cbh,
aqnmyvsubsknhvsybib,sJshqc,sqoesfribsubserposvrsYbdd’hstdqubh,sJspqh
vyjo jom;spybo,spybo,sqddsrtsqshneebo,svyqo svybsmrresMre,svybsfqif
ijgvsjvhspqcsqdromsvybstdbhy—adbqisqdromsvybspyrdbsdbomvysrtsuc
qiu—aqubsrnvsojmysucspijhv,sqoesngsJstdrqvbe;—qoesvyqvsmbovdbuqosvybib
pjddsvbddscrnsvybsibhvs(fcsvybspqc,saqgvqjo—Ei.sFnombi,shyjg’hshnimbro:
Fnombi,sucsdqe,—vybsaqgvqjo).sOrp,sFnombisfrc,shgjoscrnisgqivsrtsvyb
cqio.”

Vybsgirtbhhjroqdsmbovdbuqosvynhstqujdjqidcsgrjovbesrnv,syqesfbbosqdd
vybsvjubshvqoejomsobqisvybu,spjvysorvyjomshgbajtjaszjhjfdb,svrseborvb
yjhsmbovdbuqodcsiqo srosfrqie.sYjhstqabspqhsqosbxabbejomdcsirnoesfnv
hrfbisrob;sybspqhseibhhbesjosqstqebesfdnbsprrddbostira srishyjiv,sqoe
gqvaybesvirphbih;sqoesyqesvynhstqisfbbosejzjejomsyjhsqvvbovjrosfbvpbbo
qsuqidjomhgj bsybsybdesjosrobsyqoe,sqoesqsgjdd-frxsybdesjosvybsrvybi,
raaqhjroqddcsaqhvjomsqsaijvjaqdsmdqoabsqvsvybsjzricsdjufhsrtsvybsvpr
aijggdbesaqgvqjoh.sFnv,sqvsyjhshngbijri’hsjovirenavjrosrtsyjusvrsQyqf,
ybsgrdjvbdcsfrpbe,sqoeshviqjmyvpqcspbovsrosvrsersyjhsaqgvqjo’hsfjeejom.

“Jvspqhsqshyra jomsfqesprnoe,”sfbmqosvybspyqdb-hnimbro;s“qoe,svq jomsuc
qezjab,sAqgvqjosFrrubisybib,shvrresrnisrdesHquuc—”

“HqunbdsBoebifcsjhsvybsoqubsrtsucshyjg,”sjovbiingvbesvybsrob-qiube
aqgvqjo,sqeeibhhjomsQyqf;s“mrsro,sfrc.”

“HvrresrnisrdesHquucsrttsvrsvybsorivypqie,svrsmbvsrnvsrtsvybsfdqwjom
yrvspbqvybisvybibsrosvybsDjob.sFnvsjvspqhsorsnhb—JsejesqddsJsarnde;shqv
ngspjvysyjusojmyvh;spqhszbicshbzbibspjvysyjusjosvybsuqvvbisrtsejbv—”

“Ry,szbicshbzbib!”sayjubesjosvybsgqvjbovsyjuhbdt;svyboshneebodc
qdvbijomsyjhszrjab,s“Eijo jomsyrvsinusvreejbhspjvysubsbzbicsojmyv,svjdd
ybsarndeo’vshbbsvrsgnvsrosvybsfqoeqmbh;sqoeshboejomsubsvrsfbe,syqdt
hbqhsrzbi,sqfrnvsvyibbsr’adra sjosvybsuriojom.sRy,scbshvqih!sybshqvsng
pjvysubsjoebbe,sqoespqhszbicshbzbibsjosucsejbv.sRy!sqsmibqvspqvaybi,
qoeszbicsejbvbvjaqddcshbzbib,sjhsEi.sFnombi.s(Fnombi,scrnserm,sdqnmy
rnv!spycsero’vscb?sCrns orpscrn’ibsqsgibajrnhskrddcsiqhaqd.)sFnv,sybqzb
qybqe,sfrc,sJ’esiqvybisfbs jddbesfcscrnsvyqos bgvsqdjzbsfcsqocsrvybi
uqo.”

“Ucsaqgvqjo,scrnsunhvsyqzbsbibsvyjhsgbiabjzbe,sibhgbavbeshji”—hqjesvyb
jugbivnifqfdbsmredc-drr jomsFnombi,shdjmyvdcsfrpjomsvrsQyqf—“jhsqgvsvr
fbstqabvjrnhsqvsvjubh;sybshgjohsnhsuqocsadbzbisvyjomhsrtsvyqvshriv.sFnv
Jsuqcsqhspbddshqc—bosgqhhqov,sqhsvybsTiboaysibuqi —vyqvsJsuchbdt—vyqv
jhsvrshqc,sKqa sFnombi,sdqvbsrtsvybsibzbiboesadbimc—qusqshvijavsvrvqd
qfhvjoboabsuqo;sJsobzbiseijo —”

“Pqvbi!”saijbesvybsaqgvqjo;s“ybsobzbiseijo hsjv;sjv’hsqshrivsrtstjvhsvr
yju;stibhyspqvbisvyirphsyjusjovrsvybsyceirgyrfjq;sfnvsmrsro—mrsrospjvy
vybsqiushvric.”

“Cbh,sJsuqcsqhspbdd,”shqjesvybshnimbro,sarrddc.s“Jspqhsqfrnvsrfhbizjom,
hji,sfbtribsAqgvqjosFrrubi’hstqabvjrnhsjovbiingvjro,svyqvshgjvbsrtsuc
fbhvsqoeshbzbibhvsboebqzrih,svybsprnoes bgvsmbvvjomsprihbsqoesprihb;
vybsvinvyspqh,shji,sjvspqhsqhsnmdcsmqgjomsprnoesqhshnimbrosbzbishqp;
uribsvyqosvprstbbvsqoeshbzbiqdsjoaybhsdrom.sJsubqhnibesjvspjvysvybsdbqe
djob.sJoshyriv,sjvsmibpsfdqa ;sJs obpspyqvspqhsvyibqvbobe,sqoesrttsjv
aqub.sFnvsJsyqesorsyqoesjoshyjggjomsvyqvsjzricsqiusvybib;svyqvsvyjomsjh
qmqjohvsqddsindb”—grjovjomsqvsjvspjvysvybsuqidjomhgj b—“vyqvsjhsvyb
aqgvqjo’hspri ,sorvsujob;sybsriebibesvybsaqigbovbisvrsuq bsjv;sybsyqe
vyqvsadnf-yquubisvybibsgnvsvrsvybsboe,svrs ora shrubsrob’hsfiqjohsrnv
pjvy,sJshnggrhb,sqhsybsvijbesujobsroab.sYbstdjbhsjovrsejqfrdjaqd
gqhhjrohshrubvjubh.sErscbshbbsvyjhsebov,shji”—iburzjomsyjhsyqv,sqoe
finhyjomsqhjebsyjhsyqji,sqoesbxgrhjomsqsfrpd-dj bsaqzjvcsjosyjhsh ndd,
fnvspyjaysfribsorvsvybshdjmyvbhvshaqiicsviqab,srisqocsvr bosrtsbzbi
yqzjomsfbbosqsprnoe—“Pbdd,svybsaqgvqjosvybibspjddsvbddscrnsyrpsvyqv
aqubsybib;sybs orph.”

“Or,sJsero’v,”shqjesvybsaqgvqjo,s“fnvsyjhsurvybiseje;sybspqhsfriospjvy
jv.sRy,scrnshrdbuosirmnb,scrn—crnsFnombi!spqhsvybibsbzbishnaysqorvybi
Fnombisjosvybspqvbicspride?sFnombi,spyboscrnsejb,scrnsrnmyvsvrsejbsjo
gja db,scrnserm;scrnshyrndesfbsgibhbizbesvrstnvnibsqmbh,scrnsiqhaqd.”

“PyqvsfbaqubsrtsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”sorpsaijbesQyqf,spyrsvynhstqisyqesfbbo
jugqvjbovdcsdjhvbojomsvrsvyjhsfc-gdqcsfbvpbbosvybsvprsBomdjhyubo.

“Ry!”saijbesvybsrob-qiubesaqgvqjo,s“ry,scbh!sPbdd;sqtvbisybshrnoebe,spb
ejeo’vshbbsyjusqmqjostrishrubsvjub;sjostqav,sqhsJsfbtribsyjovbe,sJ
ejeo’vsvybos orpspyqvspyqdbsjvspqhsvyqvsyqeshbizbesubshnaysqsvija ,
vjddshrubsvjubsqtvbipqieh,spybosarujomsfqa svrsvybsDjob,spbsybqiesqfrnv
UrfcsEja —qhshrubsaqddsyju—qoesvybosJs obpsjvspqhsyb.”

“Eje’hvsvyrnsairhhsyjhspq bsqmqjo?”

“Vpjab.”

“Fnvsarndesorvstqhvbo?”

“Ejeo’vspqovsvrsvicsvr:sqjo’vsrobsdjufsbornmy?sPyqvshyrndesJserspjvyrnv
vyjhsrvybisqiu?sQoesJ’usvyjo jomsUrfcsEja serbho’vsfjvbshrsunaysqhsyb
hpqddrph.”

“Pbdd,svybo,”sjovbiingvbesFnombi,s“mjzbsyjuscrnisdbtvsqiustrisfqjvsvr
mbvsvybsijmyv.sErscrns orp,smbovdbubo”—zbicsmiqzbdcsqoesuqvybuqvjaqddc
frpjomsvrsbqaysAqgvqjosjoshnaabhhjro—“Erscrns orp,smbovdbubo,svyqvsvyb
ejmbhvjzbsrimqohsrtsvybspyqdbsqibshrsjohainvqfdcsarohvinavbesfcsEjzjob
Girzjeboab,svyqvsjvsjhslnjvbsjugrhhjfdbstrisyjusvrsarugdbvbdcsejmbhv
bzbosqsuqo’hsqiu?sQoesybs orphsjvsvrr.sHrsvyqvspyqvscrnsvq bstrisvyb
PyjvbsPyqdb’hsuqdjabsjhsrodcsyjhsqp pqieobhh.sTrisybsobzbisubqohsvr
hpqddrpsqshjomdbsdjuf;sybsrodcsvyjo hsvrsvbiijtcsfcstbjovh.sFnv
hrubvjubhsybsjhsdj bsvybsrdesknmmdjomstbddrp,striubidcsqsgqvjbovsrt
ujobsjosAbcdro,svyqvsuq jomsfbdjbzbshpqddrpskqa - ojzbh,sroabsngrosq
vjubsdbvsrobseirgsjovrsyjusjosmrresbqiobhv,sqoesvybibsjvshvqcbestrisq
vpbdzburovysrisurib;spybosJsmqzbsyjusqosbubvja,sqoesybsybqzbesjvsngsjo
huqddsvqa h,se’cbshbb.sOrsgrhhjfdbspqcstrisyjusvrsejmbhvsvyqv
kqa - ojtb,sqoestnddcsjoarigriqvbsjvsjovrsyjhsmbobiqdsfrejdcshchvbu.
Cbh,sAqgvqjosFrrubi,sjtscrnsqibslnja sbornmysqfrnvsjv,sqoesyqzbsqsujoe
vrsgqposrobsqiustrisvybshq bsrtsvybsgijzjdbmbsrtsmjzjomsebabovsfnijqd
vrsvybsrvybi,spycsjosvyqvsaqhbsvybsqiusjhscrnih;srodcsdbvsvybspyqdb
yqzbsqorvybisayqoabsqvscrnshyrivdc,svyqv’hsqdd.”

“Or,svyqo scb,sFnombi,”shqjesvybsBomdjhysAqgvqjo,s“yb’hspbdarubsvrsvyb
qiusybsyqh,shjoabsJsaqo’vsybdgsjv,sqoesejeo’vs orpsyjusvybo;sfnvsorvsvr
qorvybisrob.sOrsuribsPyjvbsPyqdbhstrisub;sJ’zbsdrpbibestrisyjusroab,
qoesvyqvsyqhshqvjhtjbesub.sVybibsprndesfbsmibqvsmdricsjos jddjomsyju,sJ
 orpsvyqv;sqoesvybibsjhsqshyjg-drqesrtsgibajrnhshgbiusjosyju,sfnv,syqi 
cb,syb’hsfbhvsdbvsqdrob;sero’vscrnsvyjo shr,sAqgvqjo?”—mdqoajomsqvsvyb
jzricsdbm.

“Ybsjh.sFnvsybspjddshvjddsfbsynovbe,strisqddsvyqv.sPyqvsjhsfbhvsdbv
qdrob,svyqvsqaanihbesvyjomsjhsorvsqdpqchspyqvsdbqhvsqddnibh.sYb’hsqddsq
uqmobv!sYrpsdromshjoabsvyrnshqp’hvsyjusdqhv?sPyjayspqcsybqejom?”

“Fdbhhsucshrnd,sqoesanihbsvybstrndstjboe’h,”saijbesFnombi,shvrrgjomdc
pqd jomsirnoesQyqf,sqoesdj bsqserm,shviqombdcshonttjom;s“vyjhsuqo’h
fdrre—fijomsvybsvybiurubvbi!—jv’hsqvsvybsfrjdjomsgrjov!—yjhsgndhbsuq bh
vybhbsgdqo hsfbqv!—hji!”—vq jomsqsdqoabvstirusyjhsgra bv,sqoeseiqpjom
obqisvrsQyqf’hsqiu.

“Qzqhv!”sirqibesQyqf,seqhyjomsyjusqmqjohvsvybsfndpqi h—“Uqosvybsfrqv!
Pyjayspqcsybqejom?”

“MrresMre!”saijbesvybsBomdjhysAqgvqjo,svrspyrusvybslnbhvjrospqhsgnv.
“Pyqv’hsvybsuqvvbi?sYbspqhsybqejomsbqhv,sJsvyjo .—JhscrnisAqgvqjo
aiqwc?”spyjhgbijomsTbeqddqy.

FnvsTbeqddqy,sgnvvjomsqstjombisrosyjhsdjg,shdjesrzbisvybsfndpqi hsvr
vq bsvybsfrqv’hshvbbijomsrqi,sqoesQyqf,shpjomjomsvybsanvvjom-vqa db
vrpqiehsyju,saruuqoebesvybshyjg’hshqjdrihsvrshvqoesfcsvrsdrpbi.

Josqsurubovsybspqhshvqoejomsjosvybsfrqv’hshvbio,sqoesvybsUqojddqsubo
pbibshgijomjomsvrsvybjisrqih.sJoszqjosvybsBomdjhysAqgvqjosyqjdbesyju.
Pjvysfqa svrsvybshviqombishyjg,sqoestqabshbvsdj bsqstdjovsvrsyjhsrpo,
QyqfshvrresngijmyvsvjddsqdromhjebsrtsvybsGblnre.


AYQGVBIs101.sVybsEbaqovbi.

BibsvybsBomdjhyshyjgstqebhstirushjmyv,sfbsjvshbvserposybib,svyqvshyb
yqjdbestirusDroero,sqoespqhsoqubesqtvbisvybsdqvbsHqunbdsBoebifc,
ubiayqovsrtsvyqvsajvc,svybsrijmjoqdsrtsvybstqurnhspyqdjomsyrnhbsrt
Boebifcs&sHroh;sqsyrnhbspyjaysjosucsgrrispyqdbuqo’hsrgjojro,sarubhsorv
tqisfbyjoesvybsnojvbesircqdsyrnhbhsrtsvybsVnerihsqoesFrnifroh,sjosgrjov
rtsibqdsyjhvrijaqdsjovbibhv.sYrpsdrom,sgijrisvrsvybscbqisrtsrnisDrie
1775,svyjhsmibqvspyqdjomsyrnhbspqhsjosbxjhvboab,sucsonubirnh
tjhy-eranubovhsersorvsuq bsgdqjo;sfnvsjosvyqvscbqis(1775)sjvstjvvbesrnv
vybstjihvsBomdjhyshyjghsvyqvsbzbisibmndqidcsynovbesvybsHgbiusPyqdb;
vyrnmystrishrubsharibsrtscbqihsgibzjrnhs(bzbishjoabs1726)srniszqdjqov
ArttjohsqoesUqabchsrtsOqovna bvsqoesvybsZjobcqiesyqesjosdqimbstdbbvh
gnihnbesvyqvsDbzjqvyqo,sfnvsrodcsjosvybsOrivysqoesHrnvysQvdqovja:sorv
bdhbpybib.sFbsjvsejhvjoavdcsibariebesybib,svyqvsvybsOqovna bvbihspbib
vybstjihvsquromsuqo joesvrsyqigrrospjvysajzjdjwbeshvbbdsvybsmibqvsHgbiu
Pyqdb;sqoesvyqvstrisyqdtsqsabovnicsvybcspbibsvybsrodcsgbrgdbsrtsvyb
pyrdbsmdrfbspyrshrsyqigrrobesyju.

Jos1778,sqstjobshyjg,svybsQubdjq,stjvvbesrnvstrisvybsbxgibhhsgnigrhb,
qoesqvsvybshrdbsayqimbsrtsvybszjmrirnhsBoebifch,sfrdedcsirnoebesAqgb
Yrio,sqoespqhsvybstjihvsquromsvybsoqvjrohsvrsdrpbisqspyqdb-frqvsrtsqoc
hrivsjosvybsmibqvsHrnvysHbq.sVybszrcqmbspqhsqsh jdtndsqoesdna csrob;
qoesibvniojomsvrsybisfbivyspjvysybisyrdestnddsrtsvybsgibajrnhshgbiu,
vybsQubdjq’hsbxqugdbspqhshrrostrddrpbesfcsrvybishyjgh,sBomdjhysqoe
Qubijaqo,sqoesvynhsvybszqhvsHgbiusPyqdbsmirnoehsrtsvybsGqajtjaspbib
vyirposrgbo.sFnvsorvsarovbovspjvysvyjhsmrresebbe,svybsjoebtqvjmqfdb
yrnhbsqmqjosfbhvjiibesjvhbdt:sHqunbdsqoesqddsyjhsHroh—yrpsuqoc,svybji
urvybisrodcs orph—qoesnoebisvybjisjuubejqvbsqnhgjabh,sqoesgqivdc,sJ
vyjo ,sqvsvybjisbxgbohb,svybsFijvjhysmrzbioubovspqhsjoenabesvrshboesvyb
hdrrg-rt-pqisIqvvdbisrosqspyqdjomszrcqmbsrtsejharzbicsjovrsvybsHrnvy
Hbq.sAruuqoebesfcsqsoqzqdsGrhv-Aqgvqjo,svybsIqvvdbisuqebsqsiqvvdjom
zrcqmbsrtsjv,sqoesejeshrubshbizjab;syrpsunayserbhsorvsqggbqi.sFnvsvyjh
jhsorvsqdd.sJos1819,svybshqubsyrnhbstjvvbesrnvsqsejharzbicspyqdbshyjg
rtsvybjisrpo,svrsmrsrosqsvqhvjomsainjhbsvrsvybsiburvbspqvbihsrtsKqgqo.
Vyqvshyjg—pbddsaqddbesvybs“Hcibo”—uqebsqsorfdbsbxgbijubovqdsainjhb;sqoe
jvspqhsvynhsvyqvsvybsmibqvsKqgqobhbsPyqdjomsMirnoestjihvsfbaqub
mbobiqddcs orpo.sVybsHcibosjosvyjhstqurnhszrcqmbspqhsaruuqoebesfcsq
AqgvqjosArttjo,sqsOqovna bvbi.

QddsyrorisvrsvybsBoebifjbh,svybibtrib,spyrhbsyrnhb,sJsvyjo ,sbxjhvhsvr
vybsgibhbovseqc;svyrnmysernfvdbhhsvybsrijmjoqdsHqunbdsunhvsdromsqmr
yqzbshdjggbesyjhsaqfdbstrisvybsmibqvsHrnvysHbqsrtsvybsrvybispride.

Vybshyjgsoqubesqtvbisyjuspqhsprivycsrtsvybsyrori,sfbjomsqszbicstqhv
hqjdbisqoesqsorfdbsaiqtvsbzbicspqc.sJsfrqiebesybisroabsqvsujeojmyv
hrubpybibsrttsvybsGqvqmrojqosarqhv,sqoeseiqo smrrestdjgserposjosvyb
tribaqhvdb.sJvspqhsqstjobsmquspbsyqe,sqoesvybcspbibsqddsvinugh—bzbic
hrndsrosfrqie.sQshyrivsdjtbsvrsvybu,sqoesqskrddcsebqvy.sQoesvyqvstjob
mqusJsyqe—drom,szbicsdromsqtvbisrdesQyqfsvrnaybesybisgdqo hspjvysyjh
jzricsybbd—jvsujoehsubsrtsvybsorfdb,shrdje,sHqxrosyrhgjvqdjvcsrtsvyqv
hyjg;sqoesuqcsucsgqihrostrimbvsub,sqoesvybsebzjdsibubufbisub,sjtsJsbzbi
drhbshjmyvsrtsjv.sTdjg?sEjesJshqcspbsyqestdjg?sCbh,sqoespbstdjggbesjv
qvsvybsiqvbsrtsvbosmqddrohsvybsyrni;sqoespybosvybshlnqddsaqubs(trisjv’h
hlnqddcsrttsvybibsfcsGqvqmrojq),sqoesqddsyqoeh—zjhjvrihsqoesqdd—pbib
aqddbesvrsibbtsvrghqjdh,spbspbibshrsvrg-ybqzcsvyqvspbsyqesvrshpjomsbqay
rvybisqdrtvsjosfrpdjobh;sqoespbsjmoriqovdcstnidbesvybsh jivhsrtsrni
kqa bvhsjovrsvybshqjdh,shrsvyqvspbsynomsvybib,sibbtbestqhvsjosvyb
yrpdjomsmqdb,sqspqiojomsbxqugdbsvrsqddseino bosvqih.sYrpbzbi,svybsuqhvh
ejesorvsmrsrzbifrqie;sqoesfcsqoesfcspbshaiqufdbeserpo,shrshrfbi,svyqv
pbsyqesvrsgqhhsvybstdjgsqmqjo,svyrnmysvybshqzqmbshqdvshgiqcsfnihvjom
erposvybstribaqhvdbshanvvdb,siqvybisvrrsunaysejdnvbesqoesgja dbesjvsvr
ucsvqhvb.

Vybsfbbtspqhstjob—vrnmy,sfnvspjvysfrecsjosjv.sVybcshqjesjvspqh
fndd-fbbt;srvybih,svyqvsjvspqhseirubeqicsfbbt;sfnvsJsersorvs orp,stri
abivqjo,syrpsvyqvspqh.sVybcsyqesenugdjomhsvrr;shuqdd,sfnvshnfhvqovjqd,
hcuubvijaqddcsmdrfndqi,sqoesjoebhvinavjfdbsenugdjomh.sJstqoajbesvyqv
crnsarndestbbdsvybu,sqoesirddsvybusqfrnvsjoscrnsqtvbisvybcspbib
hpqddrpbe.sJtscrnshvrrgbesrzbisvrrstqistripqie,scrnsijh besvybji
gjvayjomsrnvsrtscrnsdj bsfjddjqie-fqddh.sVybsfibqe—fnvsvyqvsarndeo’vsfb
ybdgbe;sfbhjebh,sjvspqhsqosqovj-harifnvja;sjoshyriv,svybsfibqe
arovqjobesvybsrodcstibhystqibsvybcsyqe.sFnvsvybstribaqhvdbspqhsorvszbic
djmyv,sqoesjvspqhszbicsbqhcsvrshvbgsrzbisjovrsqseqi sariobispyboscrn
qvbsjv.sFnvsqddsjosqdd,svq jomsybistirusvina svrsybdu,sarohjebijomsvyb
ejubohjrohsrtsvybsarr ’hsfrjdbih,sjoadnejomsyjhsrposdjzbsgqiayubov
frjdbih;stribsqoesqtv,sJshqc,svybsHqunbdsBoebifcspqhsqskrddcshyjg;srt
mrrestqibsqoesgdbovc;stjobstdjgsqoeshvirom;saiqa stbddrphsqdd,sqoe
aqgjvqdstirusfrrvsybbdhsvrsyqv-fqoe.

Fnvspycspqhsjv,svyjo scb,svyqvsvybsHqunbdsBoebifc,sqoeshrubsrvybi
BomdjhyspyqdbihsJs orpsrt—orvsqddsvyrnmy—pbibshnaystqurnh,syrhgjvqfdb
hyjgh;svyqvsgqhhbesirnoesvybsfbbt,sqoesvybsfibqe,sqoesvybsaqo,sqoesvyb
kr b;sqoespbibsorvshrrospbqicsrtsbqvjom,sqoeseijo jom,sqoesdqnmyjom?sJ
pjddsvbddscrn.sVybsqfrnoejomsmrresaybbisrtsvybhbsBomdjhyspyqdbihsjh
uqvvbistrisyjhvrijaqdsibhbqiay.sOrisyqzbsJsfbbosqvsqddshgqijomsrt
yjhvrijaqdspyqdbsibhbqiay,spybosjvsyqhshbbubesobbebe.

VybsBomdjhyspbibsgibabebesjosvybspyqdbstjhybicsfcsvybsYrddqoebih,
Wbqdqoebih,sqoesEqobh;stiruspyrusvybcsebijzbesuqocsvbiuhshvjddsbxvqov
josvybstjhybic;sqoespyqvsjhscbvsurib,svybjistqvsrdestqhyjroh,svrnayjom
gdbovcsvrsbqvsqoeseijo .sTri,sqhsqsmbobiqdsvyjom,svybsBomdjhy
ubiayqov-hyjgshaijughsybisaibp;sfnvsorvshrsvybsBomdjhyspyqdbi.sYboab,
josvybsBomdjhy,svyjhsvyjomsrtspyqdjomsmrresaybbisjhsorvsoriuqdsqoe
oqvniqd,sfnvsjoajebovqdsqoesgqivjandqi;sqoe,svybibtrib,sunhvsyqzbshrub
hgbajqdsrijmjo,spyjaysjhsybibsgrjovbesrnv,sqoespjddsfbshvjddstnivybi
bdnajeqvbe.

EnijomsucsibhbqiaybhsjosvybsDbzjqvyqojasyjhvrijbh,sJshvnufdbesngrosqo
qoajbovsEnvayszrdnub,spyjay,sfcsvybsunhvcspyqdjomshubddsrtsjv,sJs obp
unhvsfbsqfrnvspyqdbih.sVybsvjvdbspqh,s“EqosArrguqo,”spybibtribsJ
aroadnebesvyqvsvyjhsunhvsfbsvybsjozqdnqfdbsuburjihsrtshrubsQuhvbiequ
arrgbisjosvybstjhybic,sqhsbzbicspyqdbshyjgsunhvsaqiicsjvhsarrgbi.sJspqh
ibjotriabesjosvyjhsrgjojrosfcshbbjomsvyqvsjvspqhsvybsgirenavjrosrtsrob
“TjvwsHpqa yquubi.”sFnvsucstijboesEi.sHoreybqe,sqszbicsdbqiobesuqo,
girtbhhrisrtsDrpsEnvaysqoesYjmysMbiuqosjosvybsarddbmbsrtsHqovqsAdqnh
qoesHv.sGrvv’h,svrspyrusJsyqoebesvybspri strisviqohdqvjro,smjzjomsyjusq
frxsrtshgbiusaqoedbhstrisyjhsvirnfdb—vyjhshqubsEi.sHoreybqe,shrshrrosqh
ybshgjbesvybsfrr ,sqhhnibesubsvyqvs“EqosArrguqo”sejesorvsubqos“Vyb
Arrgbi,”sfnvs“VybsUbiayqov.”sJoshyriv,svyjhsqoajbovsqoesdbqiobesDrp
Envaysfrr svibqvbesrtsvybsaruubiabsrtsYrddqoe;sqoe,squromsrvybi
hnfkbavh,sarovqjobesqszbicsjovbibhvjomsqaarnovsrtsjvhspyqdbstjhybic.
Qoesjosvyjhsayqgvbisjvspqh,sybqebe,s“Hubbi,”sris“Tqv,”svyqvsJstrnoesq
dromsebvqjdbesdjhvsrtsvybsrnvtjvhstrisvybsdqiebihsqoesabddqihsrts180
hqjdsrtsEnvayspyqdbubo;stiruspyjaysdjhv,sqhsviqohdqvbesfcsEi.sHoreybqe,
Jsviqohaijfbsvybstrddrpjom:

400,000sdfh.srtsfbbt.s60,000sdfh.sTijbhdqoesgri .s150,000sdfh.srtshvra 
tjhy.s550,000sdfh.srtsfjhanjv.s72,000sdfh.srtshrtvsfibqe.s2,800stji joh
rtsfnvvbi.s20,000sdfh.sVbxbds&sDbcebosaybbhb.s144,000sdfh.saybbhb
(girfqfdcsqosjotbijrisqivjadb).s550sqo bihsrtsMbobzq.s10,800sfqiibdhsrt
fbbi.

Urhvshvqvjhvjaqdsvqfdbhsqibsgqiayjomdcseicsjosvybsibqejom;sorvshrsjo
vybsgibhbovsaqhb,syrpbzbi,spybibsvybsibqebisjhstdrrebespjvyspyrdb
gjgbh,sfqiibdh,slnqivh,sqoesmjddhsrtsmrresmjosqoesmrresaybbi.

Qvsvybsvjub,sJsebzrvbesvyibbseqchsvrsvybshvnejrnhsejmbhvjomsrtsqddsvyjh
fbbi,sfbbt,sqoesfibqe,senijomspyjaysuqocsgirtrnoesvyrnmyvhspbib
joajebovqddcshnmmbhvbesvrsub,saqgqfdbsrtsqsviqohaboebovqdsqoesGdqvroja
qggdjaqvjro;sqoe,stnivybiurib,sJsarugjdbeshnggdbubovqicsvqfdbhsrtsuc
rpo,svrnayjomsvybsgirfqfdbslnqovjvcsrtshvra -tjhy,sbva.,sarohnubesfc
bzbicsDrpsEnvaysyqigrrobbisjosvyqvsqoajbovsMibbodqoesqoesHgjvwfbimbo
pyqdbstjhybic.sJosvybstjihvsgdqab,svybsqurnovsrtsfnvvbi,sqoesVbxbdsqoe
Dbcebosaybbhbsarohnube,shbbuhsquqwjom.sJsjugnvbsjv,svyrnmy,svrsvybji
oqvniqddcsnoavnrnhsoqvnibh,sfbjomsiboebibeshvjddsuribsnoavnrnhsfcsvyb
oqvnibsrtsvybjiszraqvjro,sqoesbhgbajqddcsfcsvybjisgnihnjomsvybjismqub
josvyrhbstijmjesGrdqisHbqh,srosvybszbicsarqhvhsrtsvyqvsBhlnjuqnx
arnovicspybibsvybsarozjzjqdsoqvjzbhsgdbembsbqaysrvybisjosfnugbihsrt
viqjosrjd.

Vybslnqovjvcsrtsfbbi,svrr,sjhszbicsdqimb,s10,800sfqiibdh.sOrp,sqhsvyrhb
grdqistjhybijbhsarndesrodcsfbsgirhbanvbesjosvybshyrivshnuubisrtsvyqv
adjuqvb,shrsvyqvsvybspyrdbsainjhbsrtsrobsrtsvybhbsEnvayspyqdbubo,
joadnejomsvybshyrivszrcqmbsvrsqoestirusvybsHgjvwfbimboshbq,sejesorv
unaysbxabbesvyibbsurovyh,shqc,sqoesiba rojoms30subosvrsbqaysrtsvybji
tdbbvsrts180shqjd,spbsyqzbs5,400sDrpsEnvayshbqubosjosqdd;svybibtrib,sJ
hqc,spbsyqzbsgibajhbdcsvprsfqiibdhsrtsfbbisgbisuqo,strisqsvpbdzbspbb h’
qddrpqoab,sbxadnhjzbsrtsyjhstqjisgirgrivjrosrtsvyqvs550sqo bihsrtsmjo.
Orp,spybvybisvybhbsmjosqoesfbbisyqigrrobbih,shrstneedbesqhsrobsujmyv
tqoacsvybusvrsyqzbsfbbo,spbibsvybsijmyvshrivsrtsubosvrshvqoesngsjosq
frqv’hsybqe,sqoesvq bsmrresqjusqvstdcjomspyqdbh;svyjhsprndeshbbu
hrubpyqvsjugirfqfdb.sCbvsvybcsejesqjusqvsvybu,sqoesyjvsvybusvrr.sFnv
vyjhspqhszbicstqisOrivy,sfbsjvsibubufbibe,spybibsfbbisqmibbhspbddspjvy
vybsarohvjvnvjro;sngrosvybsBlnqvri,sjosrnishrnvybiostjhybic,sfbbisprnde
fbsqgvsvrsuq bsvybsyqigrrobbishdbbgcsqvsvybsuqhv-ybqesqoesfrrwcsjosyjh
frqv;sqoesmijbzrnhsdrhhsujmyvsbohnbsvrsOqovna bvsqoesObpsFbetrie.

Fnvsorsurib;sbornmysyqhsfbboshqjesvrshyrpsvyqvsvybsrdesEnvayspyqdbihsrt
vprsrisvyibbsabovnijbhsqmrspbibsyjmysdjzbih;sqoesvyqvsvybsBomdjhy
pyqdbihsyqzbsorvsobmdbavbeshrsbxabddbovsqosbxqugdb.sTri,shqcsvybc,spybo
ainjhjomsjosqosbugvcshyjg,sjtscrnsaqosmbvsorvyjomsfbvvbisrnvsrtsvyb
pride,smbvsqsmrresejoobisrnvsrtsjv,sqvsdbqhv.sQoesvyjhsbugvjbhsvyb
ebaqovbi.


AYQGVBIs102.sQsFrpbisjosvybsQihqajebh.

Yjvybivr,sjosebhaijgvjzbdcsvibqvjomsrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,sJsyqzbsayjbtdc
epbdvsngrosvybsuqizbdhsrtsyjhsrnvbisqhgbav;srishbgqiqvbdcsqoesjosebvqjd
ngroshrubstbpsjovbijrishvinavniqdstbqvnibh.sFnvsvrsqsdqimbsqoesvyrirnmy
hpbbgjomsarugibybohjrosrtsyju,sjvsfbyrrzbhsubsorpsvrsnofnvvrosyjushvjdd
tnivybi,sqoesnovqmmjomsvybsgrjovhsrtsyjhsyrhb,snofna djomsyjhsmqivbih,
qoesaqhvjomsdrrhbsvybsyrr hsqoesvybsbcbhsrtsvybskrjovhsrtsyjhsjoobiurhv
frobh,shbvsyjusfbtribscrnsjosyjhsndvjuqvnu;svyqvsjhsvrshqc,sjosyjh
noaroejvjroqdsh bdbvro.

Fnvsyrpsorp,sJhyuqbd?sYrpsjhsjv,svyqvscrn,sqsubibsrqihuqosjosvyb
tjhybic,sgibvboesvrs orpsqnmyvsqfrnvsvybshnfvbiiqobqosgqivhsrtsvyb
pyqdb?sEjesbinejvbsHvnff,surnovbesngroscrnisaqghvqo,sebdjzbisdbavnibh
rosvybsqoqvrucsrtsvybsAbvqabq;sqoesfcsybdgsrtsvybspjoedqhh,syrdesngsq
hgbajubosijfstrisbxyjfjvjro?sBxgdqjosvychbdt,sJhyuqbd.sAqoscrnsdqoesq
tndd-mirpospyqdbsroscrniseba strisbxqujoqvjro,sqhsqsarr sejhybhsq
irqhv-gjm?sHnibdcsorv.sQszbijvqfdbspjvobhhsyqzbscrnsyjvybivrsfbbo,
Jhyuqbd;sfnvsyqzbsqsaqibsyrpscrnshbjwbsvybsgijzjdbmbsrtsKroqysqdrob;
vybsgijzjdbmbsrtsejharnihjomsngrosvybskrjhvhsqoesfbquh;svybsiqtvbih,
ijemb-grdb,shdbbgbih,sqoesnoebi-gjoojomh,suq jomsngsvybstiqub-pri srt
dbzjqvyqo;sqoesfbdj bsrtsvybsvqddrp-zqvh,seqjic-irruh,sfnvvbijbh,sqoe
aybbhbijbhsjosyjhsfrpbdh.

Jsarotbhh,svyqvshjoabsKroqy,stbpspyqdbubosyqzbsgbobviqvbeszbicstqi
fbobqvysvybsh josrtsvybsqendvspyqdb;sobzbivybdbhh,sJsyqzbsfbbosfdbhhbe
pjvysqosrggrivnojvcsvrsejhhbavsyjusjosujojqvnib.sJosqshyjgsJsfbdrombe
vr,sqshuqddsanfsHgbiusPyqdbspqhsroabsfrejdcsyrjhvbesvrsvybseba strisyjh
gr bsrisfqm,svrsuq bshybqvyhstrisvybsfqifhsrtsvybsyqigrroh,sqoestrisvyb
ybqehsrtsvybsdqoabh.sVyjo scrnsJsdbvsvyqvsayqoabsmr,spjvyrnvsnhjomsuc
frqv-yqvaybvsqoeskqa - ojtb,sqoesfibq jomsvybshbqdsqoesibqejomsqddsvyb
arovbovhsrtsvyqvscrnomsanf?

Qoesqhstrisucsbxqavs orpdbembsrtsvybsfrobhsrtsvybsdbzjqvyqosjosvybji
mjmqovja,stnddsmirposebzbdrgubov,strisvyqvsiqibs orpdbembsJsqusjoebfvbe
vrsucsdqvbsircqdstijboesViqolnr,s jomsrtsViqolnb,srobsrtsvybsQihqajebh.
TrisfbjomsqvsViqolnb,scbqihsqmr,spybosqvvqaybesvrsvybsviqejom-hyjgsEbc
rtsQdmjbih,sJspqhsjozjvbesvrshgboesgqivsrtsvybsQihqajebqosyrdjeqchspjvy
vybsdriesrtsViqolnb,sqvsyjhsibvjibesgqduszjddqsqvsGngbddq;sqshbq-hjeb
mdbosorvszbicstqisejhvqovstiruspyqvsrnishqjdrihsaqddbesFqufrr-Vrpo,syjh
aqgjvqd.

Quromsuqocsrvybistjobslnqdjvjbh,sucsircqdstijboesViqolnr,sfbjomsmjtvbe
pjvysqsebzrnvsdrzbstrisqddsuqvvbihsrtsfqifqijaszbivn,syqesfirnmyv
vrmbvybisjosGngbddqspyqvbzbisiqibsvyjomhsvybsuribsjombojrnhsrtsyjh
gbrgdbsarndesjozbov;sayjbtdcsaqizbesprrehsrtsproebitndsebzjabh,
ayjhbddbeshybddh,sjodqjeshgbqih,sarhvdcsgqeedbh,sqiruqvjasaqorbh;sqoe
qddsvybhbsejhvijfnvbesquromspyqvbzbisoqvniqdsproebih,svyb
proebi-tibjmyvbe,svijfnvb-iboebijomspqzbhsyqesaqhvsngrosyjhshyribh.

AyjbtsquromsvybhbsdqvvbispqhsqsmibqvsHgbiusPyqdb,spyjay,sqtvbisqo
nonhnqddcsdromsiqmjomsmqdb,syqesfbbostrnoesebqesqoeshviqoebe,spjvysyjh
ybqesqmqjohvsqsararq-onvsvibb,spyrhbsgdnuqmb-dj b,svntvbeseirrgjomh
hbbubesyjhszbieqovskbv.sPybosvybszqhvsfrecsyqesqvsdqhvsfbboshvijggbesrt
jvhstqvyru-ebbgsbotrdejomh,sqoesvybsfrobhsfbarubsenhvseicsjosvybshno,
vybosvybsh bdbvrospqhsaqibtnddcsviqohgrivbesngsvybsGngbddqsmdbo,spybib
qsmiqoesvbugdbsrtsdriedcsgqduhsorpshybdvbibesjv.

Vybsijfhspbibsynomspjvysvirgyjbh;svybszbivbfiæspbibsaqizbespjvy
Qihqajebqosqooqdh,sjoshviqombsyjbirmdcgyjah;sjosvybsh ndd,svybsgijbhvh
 bgvsngsqosnobxvjomnjhybesqiruqvjastdqub,shrsvyqvsvybsuchvjasybqesqmqjo
hbovstrivysjvhszqgricshgrnv;spyjdb,shnhgboebestirusqsfrnmy,svyb
vbiijtjasdrpbiskqpszjfiqvbesrzbisqddsvybsebzrvbbh,sdj bsvybsyqji-ynom
hpriesvyqvshrsqttijmyvbesEquradbh.

Jvspqhsqsproeirnhshjmyv.sVybsprrespqhsmibbosqhsurhhbhsrtsvybsJacsMdbo;
vybsvibbhshvrresyjmysqoesyqnmyvc,stbbdjomsvybjisdjzjomshqg;svyb
joenhvijrnhsbqivysfbobqvyspqhsqhsqspbqzbi’hsdrru,spjvysqsmrimbrnh
aqigbvsrosjv,spybibrtsvybsmirnoe-zjobsvboeijdhstriubesvybspqigsqoe
prrt,sqoesvybsdjzjomstdrpbihsvybstjmnibh.sQddsvybsvibbh,spjvysqddsvybji
dqebosfiqoaybh;sqddsvybshyinfh,sqoestbioh,sqoesmiqhhbh;svyb
ubhhqmb-aqiicjomsqji;sqddsvybhbsnoabqhjomdcspbibsqavjzb.sVyirnmysvyb
dqajomhsrtsvybsdbqzbh,svybsmibqvshnoshbbubesqstdcjomshynvvdbspbqzjom
vybsnopbqijbeszbienib.sRy,sfnhcspbqzbi!snohbbospbqzbi!—gqnhb!—rob
prie!—pyjvybistdrphsvybstqfija?spyqvsgqdqabsuqcsjvseba ?spybibtribsqdd
vybhbsabqhbdbhhsvrjdjomh?sHgbq ,spbqzbi!—hvqcsvycsyqoe!—fnvsrobshjomdb
priespjvysvybb!sOqc—vybshynvvdbstdjbh—vybstjmnibhstdrqvstirustrivysvyb
drru;svybstibhybv-inhyjomsaqigbvstrisbzbishdjebhsqpqc.sVybspbqzbi-mre,
ybspbqzbh;sqoesfcsvyqvspbqzjomsjhsybsebqtbobe,svyqvsybsybqihsorsurivqd
zrjab;sqoesfcsvyqvsynuujom,spb,svrr,spyrsdrr srosvybsdrrusqibsebqtbobe;
qoesrodcspybospbsbhaqgbsjvshyqddspbsybqisvybsvyrnhqoeszrjabhsvyqvshgbq 
vyirnmysjv.sTrisbzboshrsjvsjhsjosqddsuqvbijqdstqavrijbh.sVybshgr bo
priehsvyqvsqibsjoqnejfdbsquromsvybstdcjomshgjoedbh;svyrhbshqubsprieh
qibsgdqjodcsybqiespjvyrnvsvybspqddh,sfnihvjomstirusvybsrgbobe
aqhbubovh.sVybibfcsyqzbszjddqjojbhsfbbosebvbavbe.sQy,surivqd!svybo,sfb
ybbetnd;strishr,sjosqddsvyjhsejosrtsvybsmibqvspride’hsdrru,svyc
hnfvdbhvsvyjo jomhsuqcsfbsrzbiybqiesqtqi.

Orp,squjesvybsmibbo,sdjtb-ibhvdbhhsdrrusrtsvyqvsQihqajebqosprre,svyb
mibqv,spyjvb,sprihyjggbesh bdbvrosdqcsdrnomjom—qsmjmqovjasjedbi!sCbv,
qhsvybsbzbi-przboszbieqovspqigsqoesprrtsjovbiujxbesqoesynuubesqirnoe
yju,svybsujmyvcsjedbishbbubesvybsanoojomspbqzbi;syjuhbdtsqddsprzbosrzbi
pjvysvybszjobh;sbzbicsurovysqhhnujomsmibbobi,stibhybiszbienib;sfnv
yjuhbdtsqsh bdbvro.sDjtbstrdebesEbqvy;sEbqvysvibddjhbesDjtb;svybsmiju
mrespjzbespjvyscrnvytndsDjtb,sqoesfbmqvsyjusanidc-ybqebesmdrijbh.

Orp,spybospjvysircqdsViqolnrsJszjhjvbesvyjhsproeirnhspyqdb,sqoeshqpsvyb
h nddsqosqdvqi,sqoesvybsqivjtjajqdshur bsqhaboejomstiruspybibsvybsibqd
kbvsyqesjhhnbe,sJsuqizbddbesvyqvsvybs jomshyrndesibmqiesqsayqgbdsqhsqo
rfkbavsrtszbivn.sYbsdqnmybe.sFnvsuribsJsuqizbddbesvyqvsvybsgijbhvh
hyrndeshpbqisvyqvshur cskbvsrtsyjhspqhsmbonjob.sVrsqoestirsJsgqabe
fbtribsvyjhsh bdbvro—finhybesvybszjobhsqhjeb—fir bsvyirnmysvybsijfh—qoe
pjvysqsfqddsrtsQihqajebqosvpjob,spqoebibe,sbeejbesdromsqujesjvhsuqoc
pjoejom,shyqebesardrooqebhsqoesqifrnih.sFnvshrrosucsdjobspqhsrnv;sqoe
trddrpjomsjvsfqa ,sJsbubimbestirusvybsrgbojomspybibsJsbovbibe.sJshqpsor
djzjomsvyjomspjvyjo;soqnmyvspqhsvybibsfnvsfrobh.

Anvvjomsubsqsmibbosubqhnijom-ire,sJsroabsuribsejzbespjvyjosvyb
h bdbvro.sTirusvybjisqiirp-hdjvsjosvybsh ndd,svybsgijbhvhsgbiabjzbesub
vq jomsvybsqdvjvnebsrtsvybstjoqdsijf,s“Yrpsorp!”svybcshyrnvbe;s“Eqi’hv
vyrnsubqhnibsvyjhsrnismre!sVyqv’hstrisnh.”s“Qcb,sgijbhvh—pbdd,syrpsdrom
erscbsuq bsyju,svybo?”sFnvsybibngrosqstjbiabsarovbhvsirhbsquromsvybu,
aroabiojomstbbvsqoesjoaybh;svybcsaiqa besbqaysrvybi’hsharoabhspjvy
vybjiscqie-hvja h—vybsmibqvsh nddsbayrbe—qoeshbjwjomsvyqvsdna csayqoab,
Jslnja dcsaroadnebesucsrposqeubqhnibubovh.

VybhbsqeubqhnibubovhsJsorpsgirgrhbsvrshbvsfbtribscrn.sFnvstjihv,sfbsjv
ibariebe,svyqv,sjosvyjhsuqvvbi,sJsqusorvstibbsvrsnvvbisqocstqoajbe
ubqhnibubovsJsgdbqhb.sFbaqnhbsvybibsqibsh bdbvrosqnvyrijvjbhscrnsaqo
ibtbisvr,svrsvbhvsucsqaaniqac.sVybibsjhsqsDbzjqvyqojasUnhbnu,svybcsvbdd
ub,sjosYndd,sBomdqoe,srobsrtsvybspyqdjomsgrivhsrtsvyqvsarnovic,spybib
vybcsyqzbshrubstjobshgbajubohsrtstjo-fqa hsqoesrvybispyqdbh.sDj bpjhb,
JsyqzbsybqiesvyqvsjosvybsunhbnusrtsUqoaybhvbi,sjosObpsYqughyjib,svybc
yqzbspyqvsvybsgirgijbvrihsaqdds“vybsrodcsgbitbavshgbajubosrtsq
MibbodqoesrisIjzbisPyqdbsjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbh.”sUribrzbi,sqvsqsgdqabsjo
Cri hyjib,sBomdqoe,sFnivrosArohvqfdbsfcsoqub,sqsabivqjosHjisAdjttrie
Arohvqfdbsyqhsjosyjhsgrhhbhhjrosvybsh bdbvrosrtsqsHgbiusPyqdb,sfnvsrt
urebiqvbshjwb,sfcsorsubqohsrtsvybstndd-mirposuqmojvnebsrtsucstijboe
 jomsViqolnr’h.

Josfrvysaqhbh,svybshviqoebespyqdbhsvrspyjaysvybhbsvprsh bdbvroh
fbdrombe,spbibsrijmjoqddcsadqjubesfcsvybjisgirgijbvrihsngroshjujdqi
mirnoeh.s jomsViqolnrshbjwjomsyjhsfbaqnhbsybspqovbesjv;sqoesHji
Adjttrie,sfbaqnhbsybspqhsdriesrtsvybshbjmorijbhsrtsvyrhbsgqivh.sHji
Adjttrie’hspyqdbsyqhsfbbosqivjandqvbesvyirnmyrnv;shrsvyqv,sdj bsqsmibqv
aybhvsrtseiqpbih,scrnsaqosrgbosqoeshynvsyju,sjosqddsyjhsfroc
aqzjvjbh—hgibqesrnvsyjhsijfhsdj bsqsmjmqovjastqo—qoeshpjomsqddseqcsngro
yjhsdrpbiskqp.sDra hsqibsvrsfbsgnvsngroshrubsrtsyjhsviqg-errihsqoe
hynvvbih;sqoesqstrrvuqospjddshyrpsirnoestnvnibszjhjvrihspjvysqsfnoaysrt
 bchsqvsyjhshjeb.sHjisAdjttriesvyjo hsrtsayqimjomsvprgboabstrisqsgbbg
qvsvybspyjhgbijomsmqddbicsjosvybshgjoqdsardnuo;svyibbgboabsvrsybqisvyb
bayrsjosvybsyrddrpsrtsyjhsabibfbddnu;sqoeshjxgboabstrisvybsnoijzqddbe
zjbpstirusyjhstribybqe.

Vybsh bdbvrosejubohjrohsJshyqddsorpsgirabbesvrshbvserposqibsargjbe
zbifqvjustirusucsijmyvsqiu,spybibsJsyqesvybusvqvvrrbe;sqhsjosucspjde
pqoebijomhsqvsvyqvsgbijre,svybibspqhsorsrvybishbanibspqcsrtsgibhbizjom
hnayszqdnqfdbshvqvjhvjah.sFnvsqhsJspqhsairpebestrishgqab,sqoespjhybe
vybsrvybisgqivhsrtsucsfrecsvrsibuqjosqsfdqo sgqmbstrisqsgrbusJspqhsvybo
arugrhjom—qvsdbqhv,spyqvsnovqvvrrbesgqivhsujmyvsibuqjo—Jsejesorv
virnfdbsuchbdtspjvysvybsreesjoaybh;sori,sjoebbe,shyrndesjoaybhsqvsqdd
bovbisjovrsqsarombojqdsqeubqhnibubovsrtsvybspyqdb.


AYQGVBIs103.sUbqhnibubovsrtsVybsPyqdb’hsH bdbvro.

Josvybstjihvsgdqab,sJspjhysvrsdqcsfbtribscrnsqsgqivjandqi,sgdqjo
hvqvbubov,svrnayjomsvybsdjzjomsfnd srtsvyjhsdbzjqvyqo,spyrhbsh bdbvro
pbsqibsfijbtdcsvrsbxyjfjv.sHnaysqshvqvbubovsuqcsgirzbsnhbtndsybib.

QaariejomsvrsqsaqibtndsaqdandqvjrosJsyqzbsuqeb,sqoespyjaysJsgqivdcsfqhb
ngrosAqgvqjosHaribhfc’hsbhvjuqvb,srtshbzbovcsvrohstrisvybsdqimbhvshjwbe
Mibbodqoespyqdbsrtshjxvcstbbvsjosdbomvy;sqaariejomsvrsucsaqibtnd
aqdandqvjro,sJshqc,sqsHgbiusPyqdbsrtsvybsdqimbhvsuqmojvneb,sfbvpbbo
bjmyvc-tjzbsqoesojobvcstbbvsjosdbomvy,sqoeshrubvyjomsdbhhsvyqostrivc
tbbvsjosjvhstnddbhvsajianutbiboab,shnaysqspyqdbspjddspbjmysqvsdbqhv
ojobvcsvroh;shrsvyqv,siba rojomsvyjivbbosubosvrsqsvro,sybsprnde
arohjebiqfdcsrnvpbjmysvybsarufjobesgrgndqvjrosrtsqspyrdbszjddqmbsrtsrob
vyrnhqoesrobsynoeibesjoyqfjvqovh.

Vyjo scrnsorvsvybosvyqvsfiqjoh,sdj bscr besaqvvdb,shyrndesfbsgnvsvr
vyjhsdbzjqvyqo,svrsuq bsyjusqvsqddsfnembsvrsqocsdqoehuqo’hsjuqmjoqvjro?

Yqzjomsqdibqecsjoszqijrnhspqchsgnvsfbtribscrnsyjhsh ndd,shgrnv-yrdb,
kqp,svbbvy,svqjd,stribybqe,stjoh,sqoesejzbihsrvybisgqivh,sJshyqddsorp
hjugdcsgrjovsrnvspyqvsjhsurhvsjovbibhvjomsjosvybsmbobiqdsfnd srtsyjh
norfhvinavbesfrobh.sFnvsqhsvybsardrhhqdsh nddsbufiqabhshrszbicsdqimbsq
girgrivjrosrtsvybsbovjibsbxvbovsrtsvybsh bdbvro;sqhsjvsjhsfcstqisvyb
urhvsarugdjaqvbesgqiv;sqoesqhsorvyjomsjhsvrsfbsibgbqvbesaroabiojomsjv
josvyjhsayqgvbi,scrnsunhvsorvstqjdsvrsaqiicsjvsjoscrnisujoe,srisnoebi
crnisqiu,sqhspbsgirabbe,srvybipjhbscrnspjddsorvsmqjosqsarugdbvbsorvjro
rtsvybsmbobiqdshvinavnibspbsqibsqfrnvsvrszjbp.

Josdbomvy,svybsHgbiusPyqdb’hsh bdbvrosqvsViqolnbsubqhnibeshbzbovc-vpr
tbbv;shrsvyqvspybostnddcsjozbhvbesqoesbxvboebesjosdjtb,sybsunhvsyqzb
fbbosojobvcstbbvsdrom;strisjosvybspyqdb,svybsh bdbvrosdrhbhsqfrnvsrob
tjtvysjosdbomvysarugqibespjvysvybsdjzjomsfrec.sRtsvyjhshbzbovc-vpr
tbbv,syjhsh nddsqoeskqpsarugijhbeshrubsvpbovcstbbv,sdbqzjomshrubstjtvc
tbbvsrtsgdqjosfqa -frob.sQvvqaybesvrsvyjhsfqa -frob,strishrubvyjomsdbhh
vyqosqsvyjiesrtsjvhsdbomvy,spqhsvybsujmyvcsajiandqisfqh bvsrtsijfh
pyjaysroabsboadrhbesyjhszjvqdh.

Vrsubsvyjhszqhvsjzric-ijffbesaybhv,spjvysvybsdrom,snoibdjbzbeshgjob,
bxvboejomstqisqpqcstirusjvsjosqshviqjmyvsdjob,sorvsqsdjvvdbsibhbufdbe
vybsynddsrtsqsmibqvshyjgsobp-dqjesngrosvybshvra h,spybosrodcshrub
vpbovcsrtsybisoq besfrp-ijfhsqibsjohbivbe,sqoesvybs bbdsjhsrvybipjhb,
trisvybsvjub,sfnvsqsdrom,sejharoobavbesvjufbi.

Vybsijfhspbibsvbosrosqshjeb.sVybstjihv,svrsfbmjostirusvybsoba ,spqh
obqidcshjxstbbvsdrom;svybshbaroe,svyjie,sqoestrnivyspbibsbqay
hnaabhhjzbdcsdrombi,svjddscrnsaqubsvrsvybsadjuqxsrtsvybstjtvy,srisrob
rtsvybsujeedbsijfh,spyjaysubqhnibesbjmyvstbbvsqoeshrubsjoaybh.sTiru
vyqvsgqiv,svybsibuqjojomsijfhsejujojhybe,svjddsvybsvbovysqoesdqhvsrodc
hgqoobestjzbstbbvsqoeshrubsjoaybh.sJosmbobiqdsvyja obhh,svybcsqddsfrib
qshbbudcsariibhgroeboabsvrsvybjisdbomvy.sVybsujeedbsijfhspbibsvybsurhv
qiaybe.sJoshrubsrtsvybsQihqajebhsvybcsqibsnhbestrisfbquhspybibrosvrsdqc
trrvgqvysfijembhsrzbishuqddshvibquh.

Josarohjebijomsvybhbsijfh,sJsarndesorvsfnvsfbshvina sqobpspjvysvyb
ajianuhvqoab,shrszqijrnhdcsibgbqvbesjosvyjhsfrr ,svyqvsvybsh bdbvrosrt
vybspyqdbsjhsfcsorsubqohsvybsurndesrtsyjhsjozbhvbestriu.sVybsdqimbhvsrt
vybsViqolnbsijfh,srobsrtsvybsujeedbsrobh,sraangjbesvyqvsgqivsrtsvyb
tjhyspyjay,sjosdjtb,sjhsmibqvbhvsjosebgvy.sOrp,svybsmibqvbhvsebgvysrt
vybsjozbhvbesfrecsrtsvyjhsgqivjandqispyqdbsunhvsyqzbsfbbosqvsdbqhv
hjxvbbostbbv;spybibqh,svybsariibhgroejomsijfsubqhnibesfnvsdjvvdbsurib
vyqosbjmyvstbbv.sHrsvyqvsvyjhsijfsrodcsarozbcbesyqdtsrtsvybsvinbsorvjro
rtsvybsdjzjomsuqmojvnebsrtsvyqvsgqiv.sFbhjebh,strishrubspqc,spybibsJ
orpshqpsfnvsqsoq beshgjob,sqddsvyqvsyqesfbbosroabspiqggbesirnoespjvy
vrohsrtsqeebesfnd sjostdbhy,sunhadb,sfdrre,sqoesfrpbdh.sHvjddsurib,stri
vybsqugdbstjoh,sJsybibshqpsfnvsqstbpsejhriebibeskrjovh;sqoesjosgdqabsrt
vybspbjmyvcsqoesuqkbhvja,sfnvsfrobdbhhstdn bh,sqosnvvbisfdqo !

Yrpszqjosqoestrrdjhy,svybo,svyrnmyvsJ,strisvjujesnoviqzbddbesuqosvrsvic
vrsarugibyboesqijmyvsvyjhsproeirnhspyqdb,sfcsubibdcsgrijomsrzbisyjh
ebqesqvvbonqvbesh bdbvro,shvibvaybesjosvyjhsgbqabtndsprre.sOr.sRodcsjo
vybsybqivsrtslnja bhvsgbijdh;srodcspybospjvyjosvybsbeecjomhsrtsyjh
qomicstdn bh;srodcsrosvybsgirtrnoesnofrnoebeshbq,saqosvybstnddc
jozbhvbespyqdbsfbsvindcsqoesdjzjomdcstrnoesrnv.

Fnvsvybshgjob.sTrisvyqv,svybsfbhvspqcspbsaqosarohjebisjvsjh,spjvysq
aiqob,svrsgjdbsjvhsfrobhsyjmysngsrosboe.sOrshgbbecsbovbigijhb.sFnvsorp
jv’hserob,sjvsdrr hsunaysdj bsGrugbc’hsGjddqi.

Vybibsqibstrivcsqoesreeszbivbfiæsjosqdd,spyjaysjosvybsh bdbvrosqibsorv
dra besvrmbvybi.sVybcsurhvdcsdjbsdj bsvybsmibqvs orffbesfdra hsrosq
Mrvyjashgjib,striujomshrdjesarnihbhsrtsybqzcsuqhroic.sVybsdqimbhv,sq
ujeedbsrob,sjhsjospjevyshrubvyjomsdbhhsvyqosvyibbstbbv,sqoesjosebgvy
uribsvyqostrni.sVybshuqddbhv,spybibsvybshgjobsvqgbihsqpqcsjovrsvyb
vqjd,sjhsrodcsvprsjoaybhsjospjevy,sqoesdrr hshrubvyjomsdj bsqspyjvb
fjddjqie-fqdd.sJspqhsvrdesvyqvsvybibspbibshvjddshuqddbisrobh,sfnvsvybc
yqesfbbosdrhvsfcshrubsdjvvdbsaqoojfqdsniayjoh,svybsgijbhv’hsayjdeibo,
pyrsyqeshvrdbosvybusvrsgdqcsuqifdbhspjvy.sVynhspbshbbsyrpsvyqvsvyb
hgjobsrtsbzbosvybsynmbhvsrtsdjzjomsvyjomhsvqgbihsrttsqvsdqhvsjovr
hjugdbsayjde’hsgdqc.


AYQGVBIs104.sVybsTrhhjdsPyqdb.

Tirusyjhsujmyvcsfnd svybspyqdbsqttriehsqsurhvsarombojqdsvybubspybibro
vrsbodqimb,squgdjtc,sqoesmbobiqddcsbxgqvjqvb.sPrndescrn,scrnsarndesorv
arugibhhsyju.sFcsmrresijmyvhsybshyrndesrodcsfbsvibqvbesrtsjosjugbijqd
trdjr.sOrvsvrsvbddsrzbisqmqjosyjhstnidromhstirushgjiqadbsvrsvqjd,sqoe
vybscqiehsybsubqhnibhsqfrnvsvybspqjhv;srodcsvyjo srtsvybsmjmqovja
jozrdnvjrohsrtsyjhsjovbhvjobh,spybibsvybcsdjbsjosyjusdj bsmibqvsaqfdbh
qoesyqphbihsarjdbesqpqcsjosvybshnfvbiiqobqosridrg-eba srtsq
djob-rt-fqvvdb-hyjg.

HjoabsJsyqzbsnoebivq bosvrsuqoyqoedbsvyjhsDbzjqvyqo,sjvsfbyrrzbhsubsvr
qggirzbsuchbdtsruojhajbovdcsbxyqnhvjzbsjosvybsbovbigijhb;sorv
rzbidrr jomsvybsujonvbhvshbujoqdsmbiuhsrtsyjhsfdrre,sqoeshgjoojomsyju
rnvsvrsvybsnvvbiurhvsarjdsrtsyjhsfrpbdh.sYqzjomsqdibqecsebhaijfbesyju
josurhvsrtsyjhsgibhbovsyqfjvqvricsqoesqoqvrujaqdsgbandjqijvjbh,sjvsorp
ibuqjohsvrsuqmojtcsyjusjosqosqiayærdrmjaqd,strhhjdjtbirnh,sqoe
qovbejdnzjqosgrjovsrtszjbp.sQggdjbesvrsqocsrvybisaibqvnibsvyqosvyb
Dbzjqvyqo—vrsqosqovsrisqstdbq—hnaysgrivdcsvbiuhsujmyvsknhvdcsfbsebbube
nopqiiqovqfdcsmiqoejdrlnbov.sFnvspybosDbzjqvyqosjhsvybsvbxv,svybsaqhb
jhsqdvbibe.sTqjosqusJsvrshvqmmbisvrsvyjhsbugijhbsnoebisvybspbjmyvjbhv
priehsrtsvybsejavjroqic.sQoesybibsfbsjvshqje,svyqvspybobzbisjvsyqhsfbbo
arozbojbovsvrsarohndvsrobsjosvybsarnihbsrtsvybhbsejhhbivqvjroh,sJsyqzb
jozqijqfdcsnhbesqsynmbslnqivrsbejvjrosrtsKryohro,sbxgibhhdcsgniayqhbe
trisvyqvsgnigrhb;sfbaqnhbsvyqvstqurnhsdbxjarmiqgybi’hsnoaruurosgbihroqd
fnd suribstjvvbesyjusvrsarugjdbsqsdbxjarosvrsfbsnhbesfcsqspyqdbsqnvyri
dj bsub.

Robsrtvbosybqihsrtspijvbihsvyqvsijhbsqoeshpbddspjvysvybjishnfkbav,
vyrnmysjvsuqcshbbusfnvsqosriejoqicsrob.sYrp,svybo,spjvysub,spijvjomsrt
vyjhsDbzjqvyqo?sNoarohajrnhdcsucsayjirmiqgycsbxgqoehsjovrsgdqaqie
aqgjvqdh.sMjzbsubsqsaroeri’hslnjdd!sMjzbsubsZbhnzjnh’saiqvbistrisqo
jo hvqoe!sTijboeh,syrdesucsqiuh!sTrisjosvybsubibsqavsrtsgboojomsuc
vyrnmyvhsrtsvyjhsDbzjqvyqo,svybcspbqicsub,sqoesuq bsubstqjovspjvysvybji
rnvibqayjomsarugibybohjzbobhhsrtshpbbg,sqhsjtsvrsjoadnebsvybspyrdb
ajiadbsrtsvybshajboabh,sqoesqddsvybsmbobiqvjrohsrtspyqdbh,sqoesubo,sqoe
uqhvreroh,sgqhv,sgibhbov,sqoesvrsarub,spjvysqddsvybsibzrdzjomsgqoriquqh
rtsbugjibsrosbqivy,sqoesvyirnmyrnvsvybspyrdbsnojzbihb,sorvsbxadnejom
jvhshnfnifh.sHnay,sqoeshrsuqmojtcjom,sjhsvybszjivnbsrtsqsdqimbsqoe
djfbiqdsvybub!sPbsbxgqoesvrsjvhsfnd .sVrsgirenabsqsujmyvcsfrr ,scrn
unhvsayrrhbsqsujmyvcsvybub.sOrsmibqvsqoesboenijomszrdnubsaqosbzbisfb
pijvvbosrosvybstdbq,svyrnmysuqocsvybibsfbspyrsyqzbsvijbesjv.

BibsbovbijomsngrosvybshnfkbavsrtsTrhhjdsPyqdbh,sJsgibhbovsuc
aibebovjqdhsqhsqsmbrdrmjhv,sfcshvqvjomsvyqvsjosucsujhabddqobrnhsvjubsJ
yqzbsfbbosqshvrob-uqhro,sqoesqdhrsqsmibqvsejmmbisrtsejvaybh,saqoqdhsqoe
pbddh,spjob-zqndvh,sabddqih,sqoesajhvbiohsrtsqddshrivh.sDj bpjhb,sfc
pqcsrtsgibdjujoqic,sJsebhjibsvrsibujoesvybsibqebi,svyqvspyjdbsjosvyb
bqidjbismbrdrmjaqdshviqvqsvybibsqibstrnoesvybstrhhjdhsrtsurohvbihsorp
qdurhvsarugdbvbdcsbxvjoav;svybshnfhblnbovsibdjahsejharzbibesjospyqvsqib
aqddbesvybsVbivjqicstriuqvjrohshbbusvybsaroobavjom,srisqvsqocsiqvb
jovbiabgvbesdjo h,sfbvpbbosvybsqovjayirojaqdsaibqvnibh,sqoesvyrhbspyrhb
iburvbsgrhvbijvcsqibshqjesvrsyqzbsbovbibesvybsQi ;sqddsvybsTrhhjd
PyqdbhsyjvybivrsejharzbibesfbdromsvrsvybsVbivjqicsgbijre,spyjaysjhsvyb
dqhvsgibabejomsvybshngbitjajqdstriuqvjroh.sQoesvyrnmysorobsrtsvybu
gibajhbdcsqohpbisvrsqocs orposhgbajbhsrtsvybsgibhbovsvjub,svybcsqibscbv
hnttjajbovdcsq josvrsvybusjosmbobiqdsibhgbavh,svrsknhvjtcsvybjisvq jom
iqo sqhsAbvqabqostrhhjdh.

Ebvqaybesfir bostrhhjdhsrtsgib-qequjvbspyqdbh,stiqmubovhsrtsvybjisfrobh
qoesh bdbvroh,syqzbspjvyjosvyjivcscbqihsgqhv,sqvszqijrnhsjovbizqdh,
fbbostrnoesqvsvybsfqhbsrtsvybsQdgh,sjosDrufqiec,sjosTiqoab,sjosBomdqoe,
josHarvdqoe,sqoesjosvybsHvqvbhsrtsDrnjhjqoq,sUjhhjhhjggj,sqoesQdqfquq.
Quromsvybsuribsanijrnhsrtshnaysibuqjohsjhsgqivsrtsqsh ndd,spyjaysjosvyb
cbqis1779spqhsejhjovbiibesjosvybsInbsEqngyjobsjosGqijh,sqshyrivshvibbv
rgbojomsqdurhvsejibavdcsngrosvybsgqdqabsrtsvybsVnjdbijbh;sqoesfrobh
ejhjovbiibesjosbxaqzqvjomsvybsmibqvsera hsrtsQovpbig,sjosOqgrdbro’h
vjub.sAnzjbisgirornoabesvybhbstiqmubovhsvrsyqzbsfbdrombesvrshrub
nvvbidcsno orposDbzjqvyqojashgbajbh.

FnvsfcstqisvybsurhvsproebitndsrtsqddsAbvqabqosibdjahspqhsvybsqdurhv
arugdbvbszqhvsh bdbvrosrtsqosbxvjoavsurohvbi,strnoesjosvybscbqis1842,
rosvybsgdqovqvjrosrtsKnembsAibqmy,sjosQdqfquq.sVybsqpb-hvija bo
aibendrnhshdqzbhsjosvybszjajojvcsvrr sjvstrisvybsfrobhsrtsrobsrtsvyb
tqddbosqombdh.sVybsQdqfquqseravrihsebadqibesjvsqsynmbsibgvjdb,sqoe
fbhvrpbesngrosjvsvybsoqubsrtsFqhjdrhqninh.sFnvshrubshgbajubosfrobhsrt
jvsfbjomsvq bosqairhhsvybshbqsvrsRpbo,svybsBomdjhysQoqvrujhv,sjvsvniobe
rnvsvyqvsvyjhsqddbmbesibgvjdbspqhsqspyqdb,svyrnmysrtsqsebgqivbe
hgbajbh.sQshjmojtjaqovsjddnhviqvjrosrtsvybstqav,sqmqjosqoesqmqjo
ibgbqvbesjosvyjhsfrr ,svyqvsvybsh bdbvrosrtsvybspyqdbstniojhybhsfnv
djvvdbsadnbsvrsvybshyqgbsrtsyjhstnddcsjozbhvbesfrec.sHrsRpbo
ibayijhvbobesvybsurohvbisWbnmdrero;sqoesjosyjhsgqgbisibqesfbtribsvyb
DroerosMbrdrmjaqdsHrajbvc,sgirornoabesjv,sjoshnfhvqoab,srobsrtsvybsurhv
bxviqriejoqicsaibqvnibhspyjaysvybsunvqvjrohsrtsvybsmdrfbsyqzbsfdrvvbe
rnvsrtsbxjhvboab.

PybosJshvqoesquromsvybhbsujmyvcsDbzjqvyqosh bdbvroh,sh nddh,svnh h,
kqph,sijfh,sqoeszbivbfiæ,sqddsayqiqavbijwbesfcsgqivjqdsibhbufdqoabhsvr
vybsbxjhvjomsfibbehsrtshbq-urohvbih;sfnvsqvsvybshqubsvjubsfbqijomsro
vybsrvybisyqoeshjujdqisqttjojvjbhsvrsvybsqoojyjdqvbesqovjayirojaqd
Dbzjqvyqoh,svybjisjoaqdandqfdbshbojrih;sJsqu,sfcsqstdrre,sfriobsfqa svr
vyqvsproeirnhsgbijre,sbibsvjubsjvhbdtsaqosfbshqjesvrsyqzbsfbmno;stri
vjubsfbmqospjvysuqo.sYbibsHqvnio’hsmibcsayqrhsirddhsrzbisub,sqoesJ
rfvqjoseju,shyneebijomsmdjughbhsjovrsvyrhbsGrdqisbvbiojvjbh;spybo
pbembesfqhvjrohsrtsjabsgibhhbesyqiesngrospyqvsqibsorpsvybsVirgjah;sqoe
josqddsvybs25,000sujdbhsrtsvyjhspride’hsajianutbiboab,sorvsqo
joyqfjvqfdbsyqoe’hsfibqevysrtsdqoespqhszjhjfdb.sVybosvybspyrdbspride
pqhsvybspyqdb’h;sqoe,s jomsrtsaibqvjro,sybsdbtvsyjhspq bsqdromsvyb
gibhbovsdjobhsrtsvybsQoebhsqoesvybsYjuuqdbyh.sPyrsaqoshyrpsqsgbejmibb
dj bsDbzjqvyqo?sQyqf’hsyqigrrosyqeshybesrdebisfdrresvyqosvybsGyqiqry’h.
Ubvynhbdqyshbbuhsqshayrrd-frc.sJsdrr sirnoesvrshyq bsyqoehspjvysHybu.sJ
qusyriiri-hvina sqvsvyjhsqovburhqja,snohrniabesbxjhvboabsrtsvyb
nohgbq qfdbsvbiirihsrtsvybspyqdb,spyjay,syqzjomsfbbosfbtribsqddsvjub,
unhvsobbehsbxjhvsqtvbisqddsynuqobsqmbhsqibsrzbi.

FnvsorvsqdrobsyqhsvyjhsDbzjqvyqosdbtvsyjhsgib-qequjvbsviqabhsjosvyb
hvbibrvcgbsgdqvbhsrtsoqvnib,sqoesjosdjubhvrobsqoesuqidsfblnbqvybesyjh
qoajbovsfnhv;sfnvsngrosBmcgvjqosvqfdbvh,spyrhbsqovjlnjvcshbbuhsvrsadqju
trisvybusqosqdurhvstrhhjdjtbirnhsayqiqavbi,spbstjoesvybsnoujhvq qfdb
gijovsrtsyjhstjo.sJosqosqgqivubovsrtsvybsmibqvsvbugdbsrtsEboebiqy,shrub
tjtvcscbqihsqmr,svybibspqhsejharzbibesngrosvybsmiqojvbsabjdjomsq
handgvnibesqoesgqjovbesgdqojhgybib,sqfrnoejomsjosabovqnih,smijttjoh,
qoeserdgyjoh,shjujdqisvrsvybsmirvbhlnbstjmnibhsrosvybsabdbhvjqdsmdrfb
rtsvybsurebioh.sMdjejomsquromsvybu,srdesDbzjqvyqoshpqusqhsrtscrib;spqh
vybibshpjuujomsjosvyqvsgdqojhgybib,sabovnijbhsfbtribsHrdrurospqh
aiqedbe.

Orisunhvsvybibsfbsrujvvbesqorvybishviqombsqvvbhvqvjrosrtsvybsqovjlnjvc
rtsvybspyqdb,sjosyjhsrposrhhbrnhsgrhv-ejdnzjqosibqdjvc,sqhshbvserposfc
vybszbobiqfdbsKryosDbr,svybsrdesFqifqicsviqzbddbi.

“OrvstqistirusvybsHbq-hjeb,svybcsyqzbsqsVbugdb,svybsIqtvbihsqoesFbquh
rtspyjaysqibsuqebsrtsPyqdb-Frobh;strisPyqdbhsrtsqsurohvirnhshjwbsqib
rtvbovjubhsaqhvsngsebqesngrosvyqvshyrib.sVybsAruurosGbrgdbsjuqmjob,
vyqvsfcsqshbaibvsGrpbisfbhvrpbesfcsMresngrosvybsVbugdb,sorsPyqdbsaqo
gqhhsjvspjvyrnvsjuubejqvbsebqvy.sFnvsvybsvinvysrtsvybsUqvvbisjh,svyqv
rosbjvybishjebsrtsvybsVbugdb,svybibsqibsIra hsvyqvshyrrvsvprsUjdbhsjovr
vybsHbq,sqoesprnoesvybsPyqdbhspybosvybcsdjmyvsngros’bu.sVybcs bbgsq
Pyqdb’hsIjfsrtsqosjoaibejfdbsdbomvystrisqsUjiqadb,spyjaysdcjomsngrosvyb
Mirnoespjvysjvhsarozbxsgqivsnggbiurhv,suq bhsqosQiay,svybsYbqesrtspyjay
aqoorvsfbsibqaybesfcsqsUqosngrosqsAqubd’hsFqa .sVyjhsIjfs(hqchsKryo
Dbr)sjhshqjesvrsyqzbsdqcosvybibsqsynoeibesCbqihsfbtribsJshqpsjv.sVybji
Yjhvrijqohsqttjiu,svyqvsqsGirgybvspyrsgirgybhc’esrtsUqyrubv,saqubstiru
vyjhsVbugdb,sqoeshrubsersorvshvqoesvrsqhhbiv,svyqvsvybsGirgybvsKroqh
pqhsaqhvstrivysfcsvybsPyqdbsqvsvybsFqhbsrtsvybsVbugdb.”

JosvyjhsQtijasVbugdbsrtsvybsPyqdbsJsdbqzbscrn,sibqebi,sqoesjtscrnsfbsq
Oqovna bvbi,sqoesqspyqdbuqo,scrnspjddshjdbovdcsprihyjgsvybib.


AYQGVBIs105.sErbhsvybsPyqdb’hsUqmojvnebsEjujojhy?—PjddsYbsGbijhy?

Joqhunay,svybo,sqhsvyjhsDbzjqvyqosarubhstdrnoebijomserposngrosnhstiru
vybsybqe-pqvbihsrtsvybsBvbiojvjbh,sjvsuqcsfbstjvdcsjolnjibe,spybvybi,
josvybsdromsarnihbsrtsyjhsmbobiqvjroh,sybsyqhsorvsebmbobiqvbestirusvyb
rijmjoqdsfnd srtsyjhshjibh.

Fnvsngrosjozbhvjmqvjrospbstjoe,svyqvsorvsrodcsqibsvybspyqdbhsrtsvyb
gibhbovseqcshngbijrisjosuqmojvnebsvrsvyrhbspyrhbstrhhjdsibuqjohsqib
trnoesjosvybsVbivjqicshchvbus(bufiqajomsqsejhvjoavsmbrdrmjaqdsgbijre
gijrisvrsuqo),sfnvsrtsvybspyqdbhstrnoesjosvyqvsVbivjqicshchvbu,svyrhb
fbdromjomsvrsjvhsdqvvbistriuqvjrohsbxabbesjoshjwbsvyrhbsrtsjvhsbqidjbi
robh.

Rtsqddsvybsgib-qequjvbspyqdbhscbvsbxynube,sfcstqisvybsdqimbhvsjhsvyb
Qdqfquqsrobsubovjrobesjosvybsdqhvsayqgvbi,sqoesvyqvspqhsdbhhsvyqo
hbzbovcstbbvsjosdbomvysjosvybsh bdbvro.sPybibqh,spbsyqzbsqdibqecshbbo,
vyqvsvybsvqgb-ubqhnibsmjzbhshbzbovc-vprstbbvstrisvybsh bdbvrosrtsq
dqimbshjwbesurebiospyqdb.sQoesJsyqzbsybqie,srospyqdbubo’hsqnvyrijvc,
vyqvsHgbiusPyqdbhsyqzbsfbbosaqgvnibesobqisqsynoeibestbbvsdromsqvsvyb
vjubsrtsaqgvnib.

Fnvsuqcsjvsorvsfb,svyqvspyjdbsvybspyqdbhsrtsvybsgibhbovsyrnisqibsqo
qezqoabsjosuqmojvnebsngrosvyrhbsrtsqddsgibzjrnhsmbrdrmjaqdsgbijreh;suqc
jvsorvsfb,svyqvshjoabsQequ’hsvjubsvybcsyqzbsebmbobiqvbe?

Qhhnibedc,spbsunhvsaroadnebshr,sjtspbsqibsvrsaibejvsvybsqaarnovhsrt
hnaysmbovdbubosqhsGdjoc,sqoesvybsqoajbovsoqvniqdjhvhsmbobiqddc.sTri
Gdjocsvbddhsnhsrtspyqdbhsvyqvsbufiqabesqaibhsrtsdjzjomsfnd ,sqoe
Qdeirzqoenhsrtsrvybihspyjaysubqhnibesbjmyvsynoeibestbbvsjosdbomvy—Irgb
Pqd hsqoesVyqubhsVnoobdhsrtsPyqdbh!sQoesbzbosjosvybseqchsrtsFqo hsqoe
Hrdqoebi,sArr b’hsoqvniqdjhvh,spbstjoesqsEqojhysubufbisrtsvybsQaqebuc
rtsHajboabhshbvvjomserposabivqjosJabdqoesPyqdbhs(ibceqo-hjh ni,sri
Pijo dbesFbddjbh)sqvsrobsynoeibesqoesvpbovcscqieh;svyqvsjh,svyibb
ynoeibesqoeshjxvcstbbv.sQoesDqaégèeb,svybsTiboaysoqvniqdjhv,sjosyjh
bdqfriqvbsyjhvricsrtspyqdbh,sjosvybszbicsfbmjoojomsrtsyjhspri s(gqmb
3),shbvhserposvybsIjmyvsPyqdbsqvsrobsynoeibesubvibh,svyibbsynoeibesqoe
vpbovc-bjmyvstbbv.sQoesvyjhspri spqhsgnfdjhybeshrsdqvbsqhsQ.E.s1825.

Fnvspjddsqocspyqdbuqosfbdjbzbsvybhbshvrijbh?sOr.sVybspyqdbsrtsvr-eqcsjh
qhsfjmsqhsyjhsqoabhvrihsjosGdjoc’hsvjub.sQoesjtsbzbisJsmrspybibsGdjoc
jh,sJ,sqspyqdbuqos(uribsvyqosybspqh),spjddsuq bsfrdesvrsvbddsyjushr.
FbaqnhbsJsaqoorvsnoebihvqoesyrpsjvsjh,svyqvspyjdbsvybsBmcgvjqosunuujbh
vyqvspbibsfnijbesvyrnhqoehsrtscbqihsfbtribsbzbosGdjocspqhsfrio,sersorv
ubqhnibshrsunaysjosvybjisarttjohsqhsqsurebios bovna jqosjosyjhshra h;
qoespyjdbsvybsaqvvdbsqoesrvybisqojuqdhshandgvnibesrosvybsrdebhv
BmcgvjqosqoesOjobzbysvqfdbvh,sfcsvybsibdqvjzbsgirgrivjrohsjospyjaysvybc
qibseiqpo,sknhvsqhsgdqjodcsgirzbsvyqvsvybsyjmy-fibe,shvqdd-tbe,sgijwb
aqvvdbsrtsHujvytjbde,sorvsrodcsblnqd,sfnvstqisbxabbesjosuqmojvnebsvyb
tqvvbhvsrtsGyqiqry’hstqvs job;sjosvybstqabsrtsqddsvyjh,sJspjddsorv
qeujvsvyqvsrtsqddsqojuqdhsvybspyqdbsqdrobshyrndesyqzbsebmbobiqvbe.

Fnvshvjddsqorvybisjolnjicsibuqjoh;srobsrtvbosqmjvqvbesfcsvybsurib
ibaroejvbsOqovna bvbih.sPybvybisrpjomsvrsvybsqdurhvsruojhajbov
drr -rnvhsqvsvybsuqhv-ybqehsrtsvybspyqdb-hyjgh,sorpsgbobviqvjomsbzbo
vyirnmysFbyijom’hshviqjvh,sqoesjovrsvybsiburvbhvshbaibvseiqpbihsqoe
dra bihsrtsvybspride;sqoesvybsvyrnhqoesyqigrrohsqoesdqoabhseqivbesqdrom
qddsarovjobovqdsarqhvh;svybsurrvsgrjovsjh,spybvybisDbzjqvyqosaqosdrom
boenibshrspjebsqsayqhb,sqoeshrsiburihbdbhhsqsyqzra;spybvybisybsunhvsorv
qvsdqhvsfbsbxvbiujoqvbestirusvybspqvbih,sqoesvybsdqhvspyqdb,sdj bsvyb
dqhvsuqo,shur bsyjhsdqhvsgjgb,sqoesvybosyjuhbdtsbzqgriqvbsjosvybstjoqd
gntt.

Arugqijomsvybsynugbesybiehsrtspyqdbhspjvysvybsynugbesybiehsrtsfnttqdr,
pyjay,sorvstrivcscbqihsqmr,srzbihgibqesfcsvbohsrtsvyrnhqoehsvyb
giqjijbhsrtsJddjorjhsqoesUjhhrnij,sqoeshyrr svybjisjirosuqobhsqoe
harpdbespjvysvybjisvynoebi-adrvvbesfirphsngrosvybshjvbhsrtsgrgndrnh
ijzbi-aqgjvqdh,spybibsorpsvybsgrdjvbsfir bishbddhscrnsdqoesqvsqserddqi
qosjoay;sjoshnaysqsarugqijhrosqosjiibhjhvjfdbsqimnubovsprndeshbbu
tniojhybe,svrshyrpsvyqvsvybsynovbespyqdbsaqoorvsorpsbhaqgbshgbbec
bxvjoavjro.

Fnvscrnsunhvsdrr sqvsvyjhsuqvvbisjosbzbicsdjmyv.sVyrnmyshrshyrivsq
gbijresqmr—orvsqsmrresdjtbvjub—vybsabohnhsrtsvybsfnttqdrsjosJddjorjh
bxabbebesvybsabohnhsrtsubosorpsjosDroero,sqoesvyrnmysqvsvybsgibhbovseqc
orvsrobsyriosrisyrrtsrtsvybusibuqjohsjosqddsvyqvsibmjro;sqoesvyrnmysvyb
aqnhbsrtsvyjhsproeirnhsbxvbiujoqvjrospqhsvybshgbqisrtsuqo;scbvsvybstqi
ejttbibovsoqvnibsrtsvybspyqdb-ynovsgbibugvrijdcstrifjehshrsjomdrijrnh
qosboesvrsvybsDbzjqvyqo.sTrivcsubosjosrobshyjgsynovjomsvybsHgbiusPyqdbh
tristrivc-bjmyvsurovyhsvyjo svybcsyqzbserobsbxvibubdcspbdd,sqoesvyqo 
Mre,sjtsqvsdqhvsvybcsaqiicsyrubsvybsrjdsrtstrivcstjhy.sPybibqh,sjosvyb
eqchsrtsvybsrdesAqoqejqosqoesJoejqosynovbihsqoesviqggbihsrtsvybsPbhv,
pybosvybstqispbhvs(jospyrhbshnohbvshnohshvjddsijhb)spqhsqspjdebiobhh
qoesqszjimjo,svybshqubsonufbisrtsuraaqhjobesubo,strisvybshqubsonufbisrt
urovyh,surnovbesrosyrihbsjohvbqesrtshqjdjomsjoshyjgh,sprndesyqzbshdqjo
orvstrivc,sfnvstrivcsvyrnhqoesqoesuribsfnttqdrbh;sqstqavsvyqv,sjtsobbe
pbib,sarndesfbshvqvjhvjaqddcshvqvbe.

Ori,sarohjebibesqijmyv,serbhsjvshbbusqocsqimnubovsjostqzrnisrtsvyb
miqenqdsbxvjoavjrosrtsvybsHgbiusPyqdb,strisbxqugdb,svyqvsjostriubi
cbqihs(vybsdqvvbisgqivsrtsvybsdqhvsabovnic,shqc)svybhbsDbzjqvyqoh,sjo
huqddsgreh,spbibsboarnovbibesunaysrtvbobisvyqosqvsgibhbov,sqoe,sjo
arohblnboab,svybszrcqmbhspbibsorvshrsgirdrombe,sqoespbibsqdhrsunaysurib
ibunobiqvjzb.sFbaqnhb,sqhsyqhsfbbosbdhbpybibsorvjabe,svyrhbspyqdbh,
jotdnboabesfcshrubszjbphsvrshqtbvc,sorpshpjusvybshbqhsjosjuubohb
aqiqzqoh,shrsvyqvsvrsqsdqimbsebmibbsvybshaqvvbibeshrdjvqijbh,scr bh,
qoesgreh,sqoeshayrrdhsrtsrvybiseqchsqibsorpsqmmibmqvbesjovrszqhvsfnv
pjebdcshbgqiqvbe,snotiblnbovsqiujbh.sVyqvsjhsqdd.sQoesblnqddc
tqddqajrnhshbbuhsvybsaroabjv,svyqvsfbaqnhbsvybshr-aqddbespyqdb-frob
pyqdbhsorsdrombisyqnovsuqocsmirnoehsjostriubiscbqihsqfrnoejomspjvy
vybu,syboabsvyqvshgbajbhsqdhrsjhsebadjojom.sTrisvybcsqibsrodcsfbjom
eijzbostirusgirurovricsvrsaqgb;sqoesjtsrobsarqhvsjhsorsdrombisbodjzbobe
pjvysvybjiskbvh,svybo,sfbshnib,shrubsrvybisqoesiburvbishviqoesyqhsfbbo
zbicsibabovdcshvqivdbesfcsvybsnotqujdjqishgbavqadb.

Tnivybiurib:saroabiojomsvybhbsdqhvsubovjrobesDbzjqvyqoh,svybcsyqzbsvpr
tjiustrivibhhbh,spyjay,sjosqddsynuqosgirfqfjdjvc,spjddstrisbzbisibuqjo
jugibmoqfdb.sQoesqhsngrosvybsjozqhjrosrtsvybjiszqddbch,svybstirhvc
Hpjhhsyqzbsibvibqvbesvrsvybjisurnovqjoh;shr,synovbestirusvybshqzqooqh
qoesmdqebhsrtsvybsujeedbshbqh,svybspyqdb-frobspyqdbhsaqosqvsdqhvsibhriv
vrsvybjisGrdqisajvqebdh,sqoesejzjomsnoebisvybsndvjuqvbsmdqhhcsfqiijbih
qoespqddhsvybib,sarubsngsquromsjacstjbdehsqoestdrbh;sqoesjosqsayqiube
ajiadbsrtsbzbidqhvjomsEbabufbi,sfjesebtjqoabsvrsqddsgnihnjvstirusuqo.

Fnvsqhsgbiyqghstjtvcsrtsvybhbspyqdb-frobspyqdbhsqibsyqigrrobestrisrob
aqayqdrv,shrubsgyjdrhrgybihsrtsvybstribaqhvdbsyqzbsaroadnebesvyqvsvyjh
grhjvjzbsyqzrasyqhsqdibqecszbicshbijrnhdcsejujojhybesvybjisfqvvqdjroh.
Fnvsvyrnmystrishrubsvjubsgqhvsqsonufbisrtsvybhbspyqdbh,sorvsdbhhsvyqo
13,000,syqzbsfbbosqoonqddcshdqjosrosvybsori’spbhvsarqhvsfcsvyb
Qubijaqohsqdrob;scbvsvybibsqibsarohjebiqvjrohspyjaysiboebisbzbosvyjh
ajianuhvqoabsrtsdjvvdbsrisorsqaarnovsqhsqosrggrhjomsqimnubovsjosvyjh
uqvvbi.

Oqvniqdsqhsjvsjhsvrsfbshrubpyqvsjoaibendrnhsaroabiojomsvybsgrgndrnhobhh
rtsvybsuribsboriurnhsaibqvnibhsrtsvybsmdrfb,scbvspyqvshyqddspbshqcsvr
Yqivr,svybsyjhvrijqosrtsMrq,spybosybsvbddhsnhsvyqvsqvsrobsynovjomsvyb
 jomsrtsHjqusvrr s4,000sbdbgyqovh;svyqvsjosvyrhbsibmjrohsbdbgyqovhsqib
onubirnhsqhseirzbhsrtsaqvvdbsjosvybsvbugbiqvbsadjubh.sQoesvybibshbbuh
orsibqhrosvrsernfvsvyqvsjtsvybhbsbdbgyqovh,spyjaysyqzbsorpsfbbosynovbe
trisvyrnhqoehsrtscbqih,sfcsHbujiqujh,sfcsGrinh,sfcsYqoojfqd,sqoesfcsqdd
vybshnaabhhjzbsuroqiayhsrtsvybsBqhv—jtsvybcshvjddshnizjzbsvybibsjo
mibqvsonufbih,sunaysuribsuqcsvybsmibqvspyqdbsrnvdqhvsqddsynovjom,shjoab
ybsyqhsqsgqhvnibsvrsbxgqvjqvbsjo,spyjaysjhsgibajhbdcsvpjabsqhsdqimbsqh
qddsQhjq,sfrvysQubijaqh,sBnirgbsqoesQtijaq,sObpsYrddqoe,sqoesqddsvyb
Jhdbhsrtsvybshbqsarufjobe.

Uribrzbi:spbsqibsvrsarohjebi,svyqvstirusvybsgibhnubesmibqvsdrombzjvcsrt
pyqdbh,svybjisgirfqfdcsqvvqjojomsvybsqmbsrtsqsabovnicsqoesurib,
vybibtribsqvsqocsrobsgbijresrtsvjub,shbzbiqdsejhvjoavsqendvsmbobiqvjroh
unhvsfbsarovbugriqic.sQoespyqvsvyqvsjh,spbsuqcshrrosmqjoshrubsjebqsrt,
fcsjuqmjojomsqddsvybsmiqzb-cqieh,sabubvbijbh,sqoestqujdcszqndvhsrt
aibqvjroscjbdejomsngsvybsdjzbsfrejbhsrtsqddsvybsubo,sprubo,sqoe
ayjdeibospyrspbibsqdjzbshbzbovc-tjzbscbqihsqmr;sqoesqeejomsvyjh
arnovdbhhsyrhvsvrsvybsgibhbovsynuqosgrgndqvjrosrtsvybsmdrfb.

Pybibtrib,strisqddsvybhbsvyjomh,spbsqaarnovsvybspyqdbsjuurivqdsjosyjh
hgbajbh,syrpbzbisgbijhyqfdbsjosyjhsjoejzjenqdjvc.sYbshpqusvybshbqh
fbtribsvybsarovjobovhsfir bspqvbi;sybsroabshpqusrzbisvybshjvbsrtsvyb
Vnjdbijbh,sqoesPjoehrisAqhvdb,sqoesvybs ibudjo.sJosOrqy’hstdrresyb
ebhgjhbesOrqy’hsQi ;sqoesjtsbzbisvybspridesjhsvrsfbsqmqjostdrrebe,sdj b
vybsObvybidqoeh,svrs jddsrttsjvhsiqvh,svybosvybsbvbioqdspyqdbspjdd
hvjddshnizjzb,sqoesibqijomsngrosvybsvrgurhvsaibhvsrtsvybsblnqvrijqd
tdrre,shgrnvsyjhstirvybesebtjqoabsvrsvybsh jbh.


AYQGVBIs106.sQyqf’hsDbm.

VybsgibajgjvqvjomsuqoobisjospyjaysAqgvqjosQyqfsyqeslnjvvbesvybsHqunbd
BoebifcsrtsDroero,syqesorvsfbbosnoqvvboebespjvyshrubshuqddszjrdboabsvr
yjhsrposgbihro.sYbsyqesdjmyvbespjvyshnaysbobimcsngrosqsvypqivsrtsyjh
frqvsvyqvsyjhsjzricsdbmsyqesibabjzbesqsyqdt-hgdjovbijomshyra .sQoespybo
qtvbismqjojomsyjhsrposeba ,sqoesyjhsrposgjzrv-yrdbsvybib,sybshr
zbybubovdcspybbdbesirnoespjvysqosnimbovsaruuqoesvrsvybshvbbihuqos(jv
pqh,sqhsbzbi,shrubvyjomsqfrnvsyjhsorvshvbbijomsjotdbxjfdcsbornmy);
vybo,svybsqdibqecshyq bosjzricsibabjzbeshnaysqosqeejvjroqdsvpjhvsqoe
piboay,svyqvsvyrnmysjvshvjddsibuqjobesbovjib,sqoesvrsqddsqggbqiqoabh
dnhvc,scbvsQyqfsejesorvsebbusjvsbovjibdcsvinhvprivyc.

Qoe,sjoebbe,sjvshbbubeshuqddsuqvvbistrisproebi,svyqvstrisqddsyjh
gbizqejom,suqesiba dbhhobhh,sQyqfsejesqvsvjubhsmjzbsaqibtndsybbesvrsvyb
aroejvjrosrtsvyqvsebqesfrobsngrospyjaysybsgqivdcshvrre.sTrisjvsyqesorv
fbboszbicsdromsgijrisvrsvybsGblnre’hshqjdjomstirusOqovna bv,svyqvsyb
yqesfbbostrnoesrobsojmyvsdcjomsgirobsngrosvybsmirnoe,sqoesjohbohjfdb;
fcshrubsno orpo,sqoeshbbujomdcsjobxgdjaqfdb,snojuqmjoqfdbsaqhnqdvc,syjh
jzricsdjufsyqzjomsfbboshrszjrdbovdcsejhgdqabe,svyqvsjvsyqeshvq b-pjhb
hujvvbo,sqoesqddsfnvsgjbiabesyjhsmirjo;sorispqhsjvspjvyrnvsbxvibub
ejttjandvcsvyqvsvybsqmrojwjomsprnoespqhsbovjibdcsanibe.

Ori,sqvsvybsvjub,syqesjvstqjdbesvrsbovbisyjhsuroruqojqasujoe,svyqvsqdd
vybsqomnjhysrtsvyqvsvybosgibhbovshnttbijomspqhsfnvsvybsejibavsjhhnbsrt
qstriubisprb;sqoesybsvrrsgdqjodcshbbubesvrshbb,svyqvsqhsvybsurhv
grjhrornhsibgvjdbsrtsvybsuqihysgbigbvnqvbhsyjhs joesqhsjobzjvqfdcsqh
vybshpbbvbhvshromhvbisrtsvybsmirzb;shr,sblnqddcspjvysbzbicstbdjajvc,
qddsujhbiqfdbsbzbovhsersoqvniqddcsfbmbvsvybjisdj b.sCbq,suribsvyqo
blnqddc,svyrnmyvsQyqf;shjoabsfrvysvybsqoabhvicsqoesgrhvbijvcsrtsMijbt
mrstnivybisvyqosvybsqoabhvicsqoesgrhvbijvcsrtsKrc.sTri,sorvsvrsyjovsrt
vyjh:svyqvsjvsjhsqosjotbiboabstirusabivqjosaqorojasvbqayjomh,svyqv
pyjdbshrubsoqvniqdsbokrcubovhsybibshyqddsyqzbsorsayjdeibosfriosvrsvybu
trisvybsrvybispride,sfnv,srosvybsaroviqic,shyqddsfbstrddrpbesfcsvyb
krc-ayjdedbhhobhhsrtsqddsybdd’hsebhgqji;spybibqh,shrubsmnjdvcsurivqd
ujhbijbhshyqddshvjddstbivjdbdcsfbmbvsvrsvybuhbdzbhsqosbvbioqddc
girmibhhjzbsgirmbocsrtsmijbthsfbcroesvybsmiqzb;sorvsqvsqddsvrsyjovsrt
vyjh,svybibshvjddshbbuhsqosjoblnqdjvcsjosvybsebbgbisqoqdchjhsrtsvyb
vyjom.sTri,svyrnmyvsQyqf,spyjdbsbzbosvybsyjmybhvsbqivydcstbdjajvjbh
bzbisyqzbsqsabivqjosnohjmojtcjomsgbvvjobhhsdni jomsjosvybu,sfnv,sqv
frvvru,sqddsybqivprbh,sqsuchvjashjmojtjaqoab,sqoe,sjoshrubsubo,sqo
qiayqombdjasmiqoebni;shrsersvybjisejdjmbovsviqajomh-rnvsorvsfbdjbsvyb
rfzjrnhsebenavjro.sVrsviqjdsvybsmbobqdrmjbhsrtsvybhbsyjmysurivqd
ujhbijbh,saqiijbhsnhsqvsdqhvsquromsvybshrniabdbhhsgijurmbojvnibhsrtsvyb
mreh;shrsvyqv,sjosvybstqabsrtsqddsvybsmdqe,syqc-uq jomshnoh,sqoeshrtv
acufqddjom,sirnoesyqizbhv-urroh,spbsunhvsobbehsmjzbsjosvrsvyjh:svyqv
vybsmrehsvybuhbdzbhsqibsorvstrisbzbismdqe.sVybsjobttqabqfdb,shqe
fjivy-uqi sjosvybsfirpsrtsuqo,sjhsfnvsvybshvqugsrtshriirpsjosvyb
hjmobih.

Nopjvvjomdcsybibsqshbaibvsyqhsfbbosejzndmbe,spyjaysgbiyqghsujmyvsurib
girgbidc,sjoshbvspqc,syqzbsfbbosejhadrhbesfbtrib.sPjvysuqocsrvybi
gqivjandqihsaroabiojomsQyqf,sqdpqchsyqesjvsibuqjobesqsuchvbicsvrshrub,
pycsjvspqh,svyqvstrisqsabivqjosgbijre,sfrvysfbtribsqoesqtvbisvyb
hqjdjomsrtsvybsGblnre,sybsyqesyjeebosyjuhbdtsqpqcspjvyshnay
Miqoe-Dquq-dj bsbxadnhjzbobhh;sqoe,strisvyqvsrobsjovbizqd,shrnmyv
hgbbaydbhhsibtnmb,sqhsjvspbib,squromsvybsuqifdbshboqvbsrtsvybsebqe.
AqgvqjosGbdbm’hsfinjvbesibqhrostrisvyjhsvyjomsqggbqibesfcsorsubqoh
qeblnqvb;svyrnmy,sjoebbe,sqhsvrnayjomsqddsQyqf’hsebbgbisgqiv,sbzbic
ibzbdqvjrosgqivrr suribsrtshjmojtjaqovseqi obhhsvyqosrtsbxgdqoqvric
djmyv.sFnv,sjosvybsboe,sjvsqddsaqubsrnv;svyjhsrobsuqvvbiseje,sqvsdbqhv.
Vyqvsejibtndsujhyqgspqhsqvsvybsfrvvrusrtsyjhsvbugriqicsibadnhbobhh.sQoe
orvsrodcsvyjh,sfnvsvrsvyqvsbzbi-aroviqavjom,seirggjomsajiadbsqhyrib,
pyr,strisqocsibqhro,sgrhhbhhbesvybsgijzjdbmbsrtsqsdbhhsfqoobesqggirqay
vrsyju;svrsvyqvsvjujesajiadbsvybsqfrzbsyjovbesaqhnqdvc—ibuqjojom,sqhsjv
eje,surrejdcsnoqaarnovbestrisfcsQyqf—jozbhvbesjvhbdtspjvysvbiirih,sorv
bovjibdcsnoebijzbestirusvybsdqoesrtshgjijvhsqoesrtspqjdh.sHrsvyqv,
vyirnmysvybjiswbqdstrisyju,svybcsyqesqddsarohgjibe,shrstqisqhsjosvybu
dqc,svrsunttdbsngsvybs orpdbembsrtsvyjhsvyjomstirusrvybih;sqoesyboabsjv
pqh,svyqvsorvsvjddsqsarohjebiqfdbsjovbizqdsyqesbdqghbe,sejesjv
viqohgjibsngrosvybsGblnre’hseba h.

Fnvsfbsqddsvyjhsqhsjvsuqc;sdbvsvybsnohbbo,squfjmnrnhshcoresjosvybsqji,
risvybszjoejavjzbsgijoabhsqoesgrvbovqvbhsrtstjib,syqzbsvrsersrisorv
pjvysbqivydcsQyqf,scbv,sjosvyjhsgibhbovsuqvvbisrtsyjhsdbm,sybsvrr 
gdqjosgiqavjaqdsgirabenibh;—ybsaqddbesvybsaqigbovbi.

Qoespybosvyqvstnoavjroqicsqggbqibesfbtribsyju,sybsfqebsyjuspjvyrnv
ebdqcshbvsqfrnvsuq jomsqsobpsdbm,sqoesejibavbesvybsuqvbhsvrshbbsyju
hnggdjbespjvysqddsvybshvnehsqoeskrjhvhsrtskqp-jzrics(HgbiusPyqdb)spyjay
yqesvynhstqisfbbosqaanundqvbesrosvybszrcqmb,sjosriebisvyqvsqsaqibtnd
hbdbavjrosrtsvybshvrnvbhv,sadbqibhv-miqjobeshvnttsujmyvsfbshbanibe.
Vyjhserob,svybsaqigbovbisibabjzbesriebihsvrsyqzbsvybsdbmsarugdbvbesvyqv
ojmyv;sqoesvrsgirzjebsqddsvybstjvvjomhstrisjv,sjoebgboebovsrtsvyrhb
gbivqjojomsvrsvybsejhvinhvbesrobsjosnhb.sUribrzbi,svybshyjg’hstrimbspqh
riebibesvrsfbsyrjhvbesrnvsrtsjvhsvbugriqicsjedbobhhsjosvybsyrde;sqoe,
vrsqaabdbiqvbsvybsqttqji,svybsfdqa hujvyspqhsaruuqoebesvrsgirabbesqv
roabsvrsvybstrimjomsrtspyqvbzbisjirosarovijzqoabhsujmyvsfbsobbebe.


AYQGVBIs107.sVybsAqigbovbi.

HbqvsvychbdtshndvqojaqddcsquromsvybsurrohsrtsHqvnio,sqoesvq bsyjmy
qfhviqavbesuqosqdrob;sqoesybshbbuhsqsproebi,sqsmiqoebni,sqoesqsprb.sFnv
tirusvybshqubsgrjov,svq bsuqo joesjosuqhh,sqoestrisvybsurhvsgqiv,svybc
hbbusqsurfsrtsnoobabhhqicsengdjaqvbh,sfrvysarovbugriqicsqoesybibejvqic.
Fnvsurhvsynufdbsvyrnmysybspqh,sqoestqistirustniojhyjomsqosbxqugdbsrt
vybsyjmy,synuqobsqfhviqavjro;svybsGblnre’hsaqigbovbispqhsorsengdjaqvb;
yboab,sybsorpsarubhsjosgbihrosrosvyjhshvqmb.

Dj bsqddshbq-mrjomshyjgsaqigbovbih,sqoesuribsbhgbajqddcsvyrhbsfbdromjom
vrspyqdjomszbhhbdh,sybspqh,svrsqsabivqjosrtt-yqoebe,sgiqavjaqdsbxvbov,
qdj bsbxgbijboabesjosonubirnhsviqebhsqoesaqddjomhsarddqvbiqdsvrsyjh
rpo;svybsaqigbovbi’hsgnihnjvsfbjomsvybsqoajbovsqoesrnvfiqoayjomsvino 
rtsqddsvyrhbsonubirnhsyqoejaiqtvhspyjaysuribsrisdbhhsyqzbsvrserspjvy
prresqhsqosqnxjdjqicsuqvbijqd.sFnv,sfbhjebhsvybsqggdjaqvjrosvrsyjusrt
vybsmbobijasibuqi sqfrzb,svyjhsaqigbovbisrtsvybsGblnrespqhshjomndqidc
bttjajbovsjosvyrhbsvyrnhqoesoqubdbhhsubayqojaqdsbubimboajbhsarovjonqddc
ibaniijomsjosqsdqimbshyjg,sngrosqsvyibbsristrniscbqih’szrcqmb,sjo
noajzjdjwbesqoestqi-ejhvqovshbqh.sTrisorvsvrshgbq srtsyjhsibqejobhhsjo
riejoqicsenvjbh:—ibgqjijomshvrzbsfrqvh,shginomshgqih,sibtriujomsvyb
hyqgbsrtsadnuhc-fdqebesrqih,sjohbivjomsfndd’hsbcbhsjosvybseba ,srisobp
vibb-oqjdhsjosvybshjebsgdqo h,sqoesrvybisujhabddqobrnhsuqvvbihsurib
ejibavdcsgbivqjojomsvrsyjhshgbajqdsfnhjobhh;sybspqhsuribrzbi
noybhjvqvjomdcsbxgbivsjosqddsuqoobisrtsarotdjavjomsqgvjvnebh,sfrvy
nhbtndsqoesaqgijajrnh.

Vybsrobsmiqoeshvqmbspybibsybsboqavbesqddsyjhszqijrnhsgqivhshrsuqojtrde,
pqhsyjhszjab-fboay;sqsdromsinebsgroebirnhsvqfdbstniojhybespjvyshbzbiqd
zjabh,srtsejttbibovshjwbh,sqoesfrvysrtsjirosqoesrtsprre.sQvsqddsvjubh
bxabgvspybospyqdbhspbibsqdromhjeb,svyjhsfboayspqhshbanibdcsdqhybe
qvypqivhyjghsqmqjohvsvybsibqisrtsvybsVic-pri h.

Qsfbdqcjomsgjosjhstrnoesvrrsdqimbsvrsfbsbqhjdcsjohbivbesjovrsjvhsyrdb:
vybsaqigbovbisadqghsjvsjovrsrobsrtsyjhsbzbi-ibqecszjabh,sqoe
hviqjmyvpqcstjdbhsjvshuqddbi.sQsdrhvsdqoe-fjiesrtshviqombsgdnuqmb
hviqchsrosfrqie,sqoesjhsuqebsqsaqgvjzb:srnvsrtsadbqoshyqzbesirehsrt
ijmyv-pyqdbsfrob,sqoesairhh-fbquhsrtshgbiuspyqdbsjzric,svybsaqigbovbi
uq bhsqsgqmreq-drr jomsaqmbstrisjv.sQosrqihuqoshgiqjohsyjhspijhv:svyb
aqigbovbisaroaravhsqshrrvyjomsdrvjro.sHvnffsdrombestriszbiujddjroshvqih
vrsfbsgqjovbesngrosvybsfdqebsrtsyjhsbzbicsrqi;shaibpjomsbqaysrqisjosyjh
fjmszjabsrtsprre,svybsaqigbovbishcuubvijaqddcshnggdjbhsvyb
arohvbddqvjro.sQshqjdrisvq bhsqstqoacsvrspbqishyqi -frobsbqi-ijomh:svyb
aqigbovbiseijddhsyjhsbqih.sQorvybisyqhsvybsvrrvyqayb:svybsaqigbovbisrnv
gjoabih,sqoesadqggjomsrobsyqoesngrosyjhsfboaysfjehsyjusfbshbqvbesvybib;
fnvsvybsgrristbddrpsnouqoqmbqfdcspjoabhsnoebisvybsnoaroadnebe
rgbiqvjro;spyjidjomsirnoesvybsyqoedbsrtsyjhsprreboszjab,svybsaqigbovbi
hjmohsyjusvrsadqgsyjhskqpsjosvyqv,sjtsybsprndesyqzbsyjuseiqpsvybsvrrvy.

Vynh,svyjhsaqigbovbispqhsgibgqibesqvsqddsgrjovh,sqoesqdj bsjoejttbibov
qoespjvyrnvsibhgbavsjosqdd.sVbbvysybsqaarnovbesfjvhsrtsjzric;sybqehsyb
ebbubesfnvsvrg-fdra h;subosvybuhbdzbhsybsdjmyvdcsybdestrisaqghvqoh.sFnv
pyjdbsorpsngroshrspjebsqstjbdesvynhszqijrnhdcsqaarugdjhybesqoespjvy
hnaysdjzbdjobhhsrtsbxgbivobhhsjosyju,svrr;sqddsvyjhsprndeshbbusvrsqimnb
hrubsnoaruuroszjzqajvcsrtsjovbddjmboab.sFnvsorvsgibajhbdcshr.sTri
orvyjomspqhsvyjhsuqosuribsibuqi qfdb,svyqostrisqsabivqjosjugbihroqd
hvrdjejvcsqhsjvspbib;sjugbihroqd,sJshqc;strisjvshrshyqebesrttsjovrsvyb
hniirnoejomsjotjojvbsrtsvyjomh,svyqvsjvshbbubesrobspjvysvybsmbobiqd
hvrdjejvcsejhabiojfdbsjosvybspyrdbszjhjfdbspride;spyjayspyjdb
gqnhbdbhhdcsqavjzbsjosnoarnovbesurebh,shvjddsbvbioqddcsyrdehsjvhsgbqab,
qoesjmoribhscrn,svyrnmyscrnsejmstrnoeqvjrohstrisaqvybeiqdh.sCbvspqh
vyjhsyqdt-yriijfdbshvrdjejvcsjosyju,sjozrdzjom,svrr,sqhsjvsqggbqibe,sqo
qdd-iqujtcjomsybqivdbhhobhh;—cbvspqhsjvsreedcseqhybesqvsvjubh,spjvysqo
rde,sainvay-dj b,sqovbejdnzjqo,spybbwjomsynurirnhobhh,sorvsnohvibq be
orpsqoesvybospjvysqsabivqjosmijwwdbespjvvjobhh;shnaysqhsujmyvsyqzb
hbizbesvrsgqhhsvybsvjubsenijomsvybsujeojmyvspqvaysrosvybsfbqiebe
tribaqhvdbsrtsOrqy’hsqi .sPqhsjvsvyqvsvyjhsrdesaqigbovbisyqesfbbosq
djtb-dromspqoebibi,spyrhbsunaysirddjom,svrsqoestir,sorvsrodcsyqe
mqvybibesorsurhh;sfnvspyqvsjhsurib,syqesinffbesrttspyqvbzbishuqdd
rnvpqiesadjomjomhsujmyvsyqzbsrijmjoqddcsgbivqjobesvrsyju?sYbspqhsq
hvijgvsqfhviqav;sqosnotiqavjrobesjovbmiqd;snoarugirujhbesqhsqsobp-frio
fqfb;sdjzjomspjvyrnvsgibubejvqvbesibtbiboabsvrsvyjhspridesrisvybsobxv.
Crnsujmyvsqdurhvshqc,svyqvsvyjhshviqombsnoarugirujhbeobhhsjosyju
jozrdzbesqshrivsrtsnojovbddjmboab;strisjosyjhsonubirnhsviqebh,sybseje
orvshbbusvrspri shrsunaysfcsibqhrosrisfcsjohvjoav,srishjugdcsfbaqnhbsyb
yqesfbbosvnvribesvrsjv,srisfcsqocsjovbiujxvnibsrtsqddsvybhb,sbzbosri
nobzbo;sfnvsubibdcsfcsqs joesrtsebqtsqoesenuf,shgrovqobrnhsdjvbiqd
girabhh.sYbspqhsqsgnibsuqojgndqvri;syjhsfiqjo,sjtsybsyqesbzbisyqesrob,
unhvsyqzbsbqidcsrrwbesqdromsjovrsvybsunhadbhsrtsyjhstjombih.sYbspqh
dj bsrobsrtsvyrhbsnoibqhrojomsfnvshvjddsyjmydcsnhbtnd,s_undvnusjo
gqizr_,sHybttjbdesarovijzqoabh,sqhhnujomsvybsbxvbijri—vyrnmysqsdjvvdb
hpbddbe—rtsqsaruurosgra bvs ojtb;sfnvsarovqjojom,sorvsrodcsfdqebhsrt
zqijrnhshjwbh,sfnvsqdhrshaibp-eijzbih,sari -haibph,svpbbwbih,sqpdh,
gboh,sindbih,soqjd-tjdbih,sarnovbihjo bih.sHr,sjtsyjhshngbijrihspqovbe
vrsnhbsvybsaqigbovbistrisqshaibp-eijzbi,sqddsvybcsyqesvrserspqhsvrsrgbo
vyqvsgqivsrtsyju,sqoesvybshaibpspqhstqhv:srisjtstrisvpbbwbih,svq bsyju
ngsfcsvybsdbmh,sqoesvybibsvybcspbib.

Cbv,sqhsgibzjrnhdcsyjovbe,svyjhsruojvrrdbe,srgbo-qoe-hynvsaqigbovbi,
pqh,sqtvbisqdd,sorsubibsuqayjobsrtsqosqnvruqvro.sJtsybsejesorvsyqzbsq
aruuroshrndsjosyju,sybsyqesqshnfvdbshrubvyjomsvyqvshrubyrpsqoruqdrnhdc
ejesjvhsenvc.sPyqvsvyqvspqh,spybvybisbhhboabsrtslnja hjdzbi,srisqstbp
eirghsrtsyqivhyrio,svybibsjhsorsvbddjom.sFnvsvybibsjvspqh;sqoesvybibsjv
yqesqfjebestrisorpshrubshjxvcscbqihsrisurib.sQoesvyjhsjvspqh,svyjhshqub
noqaarnovqfdb,sanoojomsdjtb-gijoajgdbsjosyju;svyjhsjvspqh,svyqvs bgv
yjusqsmibqvsgqivsrtsvybsvjubshrdjdrlnjwjom;sfnvsrodcsdj bsqo
noibqhrojomspybbd,spyjaysqdhrsynuujomdcshrdjdrlnjwbh;srisiqvybi,syjh
frecspqhsqshbovic-frxsqoesvyjhshrdjdrlnjwbisrosmnqiesvybib,sqoesvqd jom
qddsvybsvjubsvrs bbgsyjuhbdtsqpq b.


AYQGVBIs108.sQyqfsqoesvybsAqigbovbi.

VybsEba —TjihvsOjmyvsPqvay.

(_Aqigbovbishvqoejomsfbtribsyjhszjab-fboay,sqoesfcsvybsdjmyvsrtsvpr
dqovbiohsfnhjdcstjdjomsvybsjzricskrjhvstrisvybsdbm,spyjayskrjhvsjh
tjiudcstjxbesjosvybszjab.sHdqfhsrtsjzric,sdbqvybishviqgh,sgqeh,shaibph,
qoeszqijrnhsvrrdhsrtsqddshrivhsdcjomsqfrnvsvybsfboay.sTripqie,svybsibe
tdqubsrtsvybstrimbsjhshbbo,spybibsvybsfdqa hujvysjhsqvspri ._)

Eiqvsvybstjdb,sqoeseiqvsvybsfrob!sVyqvsjhsyqiespyjayshyrndesfbshrtv,
qoesvyqvsjhshrtvspyjayshyrndesfbsyqie.sHrspbsmr,spyrstjdbsrdeskqphsqoe
hyjofrobh.sDbv’hsvicsqorvybi.sQcb,sorp,svyjhspri hsfbvvbis(_hobbwbh_).
Yqddrq,svyjhsfrobsenhvsjhs(_hobbwbh_)—pycsjv’hs(_hobbwbh_)—cbhsjv’h
(_hobbwbh_)—fdbhhsucshrnd,sjvspro’vsdbvsubshgbq !sVyjhsjhspyqvsqosrde
tbddrpsmbvhsorpstrispri jomsjosebqesdnufbi.sHqpsqsdjzbsvibb,sqoescrn
ero’vsmbvsvyjhsenhv;squgnvqvbsqsdjzbsfrob,sqoescrnsero’vsmbvsjv
(_hobbwbh_).sArub,sarub,scrnsrdesHunv,svybib,sfbqisqsyqoe,sqoesdbv’h
yqzbsvyqvstbindbsqoesfna db-haibp;sJ’ddsfbsibqecstrisvybusgibhbovdc.
Dna csorps(_hobbwbh_)svybib’hsors obb-krjovsvrsuq b;svyqvsujmyvsgnwwdb
qsdjvvdb;sfnvsqsubibshyjofrob—pycsjv’hsbqhcsqhsuq jomsyrg-grdbh;srodcsJ
hyrndesdj bsvrsgnvsqsmrrestjojhysro.sVjub,svjub;sjtsJsfnvsrodcsyqesvyb
vjub,sJsarndesvniosyjusrnvsqhsobqvsqsdbmsorpsqhsbzbis(_hobbwbh_)
haiqgbesvrsqsdqecsjosqsgqidri.sVyrhbsfna h josdbmhsqoesaqdzbhsrtsdbmh
J’zbshbbosjoshyrgspjoerphsprndeo’vsarugqibsqvsqdd.sVybcshrq spqvbi,
vybcser;sqoesrtsarnihbsmbvsiybnuqvja,sqoesyqzbsvrsfbseravribe
(_hobbwbh_)spjvyspqhybhsqoesdrvjroh,sknhvsdj bsdjzbsdbmh.sVybib;sfbtrib
Jshqpsjvsrtt,sorp,sJsunhvsaqddsyjhsrdesUrmndhyjg,sqoeshbbspybvybisvyb
dbomvyspjddsfbsqddsijmyv;svrrshyriv,sjtsqocvyjom,sJsmnbhh.sYq!svyqv’h
vybsybbd;spbsqibsjosdna ;sybibsybsarubh,srisjv’hshrubfrecsbdhb,svyqv’h
abivqjo.

QYQFs(_qezqoajom_).s(_Enijomsvybsbohnjomshabob,svybsaqigbovbisarovjonbh
hobbwjomsqvsvjubh._)

Pbdd,suqouq bi!

Knhvsjosvjub,shji.sJtsvybsaqgvqjosgdbqhbh,sJspjddsorpsuqi svybsdbomvy.
Dbvsubsubqhnib,shji.

Ubqhnibestrisqsdbm!smrre.sPbdd,sjv’hsorvsvybstjihvsvjub.sQfrnvsjv!
Vybib;s bbgsvycstjombisrosjv.sVyjhsjhsqsarmbovszjabsvyrnsyqhvsybib,
aqigbovbi;sdbvsubstbbdsjvhsmijgsroab.sHr,shr;sjvserbhsgjoayshrub.

Ry,shji,sjvspjddsfibq sfrobh—fbpqib,sfbpqib!

Orstbqi;sJsdj bsqsmrresmijg;sJsdj bsvrstbbdshrubvyjomsjosvyjhshdjggbic
pridesvyqvsaqosyrde,suqo.sPyqv’hsGirubvybnhsqfrnvsvybib?—vyb
fdqa hujvy,sJsubqo—pyqv’hsybsqfrnv?

Ybsunhvsfbstrimjomsvybsfna db-haibp,shji,sorp.

Ijmyv.sJv’hsqsgqivobihyjg;sybshnggdjbhsvybsunhadbsgqiv.sYbsuq bhsq
tjbiabsibestdqubsvybib!

Qcb,shji;sybsunhvsyqzbsvybspyjvbsybqvstrisvyjhs joesrtstjobspri .

Nu-u.sHrsybsunhv.sJsersebbusjvsorpsqsurhvsubqojomsvyjom,svyqvsvyqvsrde
Mibb ,sGirubvybnh,spyrsuqebsubo,svybcshqc,shyrndesyqzbsfbbosq
fdqa hujvy,sqoesqojuqvbesvybuspjvystjib;strispyqv’hsuqebsjostjibsunhv
girgbidcsfbdromsvrstjib;sqoeshrsybdd’hsgirfqfdb.sYrpsvybshrrvstdjbh!
VyjhsunhvsfbsvybsibuqjoebisvybsMibb suqebsvybsQtijaqohsrt.sAqigbovbi,
pybosyb’hsvyirnmyspjvysvyqvsfna db,svbddsyjusvrstrimbsqsgqjisrtshvbbd
hyrndebi-fdqebh;svybib’hsqsgbedqisqfrqiespjvysqsainhyjomsgqa .

Hji?

Yrde;spyjdbsGirubvybnhsjhsqfrnvsjv,sJ’ddsriebisqsarugdbvbsuqosqtvbisq
ebhjiqfdbsgqvvbio.sJugijujh,stjtvcstbbvsyjmysjosyjhshra h;svybo,saybhv
urebddbesqtvbisvybsVyqubhsVnoobd;svybo,sdbmhspjvysirrvhsvrs’bu,svrshvqc
josrobsgdqab;svybo,sqiuhsvyibbstbbvsvyirnmysvybspijhv;sorsybqivsqvsqdd,
fiqhhstribybqe,sqoesqfrnvsqslnqivbisrtsqosqaibsrtstjobsfiqjoh;sqoesdbv
ubshbb—hyqddsJsriebisbcbhsvrshbbsrnvpqieh?sOr,sfnvsgnvsqsh c-djmyvsro
vrgsrtsyjhsybqesvrsjddnujoqvbsjopqieh.sVybib,svq bsvybsriebi,sqoesqpqc.

Orp,spyqv’hsybshgbq jomsqfrnv,sqoespyr’hsybshgbq jomsvr,sJshyrndesdj b
vrs orp?sHyqddsJs bbgshvqoejomsybib?s(_qhjeb_).

’Vjhsfnvsjoejttbibovsqiayjvbavnibsvrsuq bsqsfdjoeserub;sybib’hsrob.sOr,
or,sor;sJsunhvsyqzbsqsdqovbio.

Yr,syr!sVyqv’hsjv,sybc?sYbibsqibsvpr,shji;srobspjddshbizbsucsvnio.

Pyqvsqivsvyrnsvyinhvjomsvyqvsvyjbt-aqvaybisjovrsucstqabstri,suqo?
Vyinhvbesdjmyvsjhsprihbsvyqosgibhbovbesgjhvrdh.

Jsvyrnmyv,shji,svyqvscrnshgr bsvrsaqigbovbi.

Aqigbovbi?spycsvyqv’h—fnvsor;—qszbicsvjec,sqoe,sJsuqcshqc,sqosbxvibubdc
mbovdbuqodj bshrivsrtsfnhjobhhsvyrnsqivsjosybib,saqigbovbi;—risprnde’hv
vyrnsiqvybispri sjosadqc?

Hji?—Adqc?sadqc,shji?sVyqv’hsune;spbsdbqzbsadqcsvrsejvaybih,shji.

Vybstbddrp’hsjugjrnh!sPyqvsqivsvyrnshobbwjomsqfrnv?

Frobsjhsiqvybisenhvc,shji.

Vq bsvybsyjov,svybo;sqoespybosvyrnsqivsebqe,sobzbisfnicsvychbdtsnoebi
djzjomsgbrgdb’hsorhbh.

Hji?—ry!sqy!—Jsmnbhhshr;—cbh—ry,sebqi!

Drr scb,saqigbovbi,sJseqibshqcsvyrnsaqddbhvsvychbdtsqsijmyvsmrre
pri uqodj bspri uqo,sby?sPbdd,svybo,spjddsjvshgbq svyrirnmydcspbddstri
vycspri ,sjt,spybosJsarubsvrsurnovsvyjhsdbmsvyrnsuq bhv,sJshyqdd
obzbivybdbhhstbbdsqorvybisdbmsjosvybshqubsjebovjaqdsgdqabspjvysjv;svyqv
jh,saqigbovbi,sucsrdesdrhvsdbm;svybstdbhysqoesfdrresrob,sJsubqo.sAqohv
vyrnsorvseijzbsvyqvsrdesQequsqpqc?

Vindc,shji,sJsfbmjosvrsnoebihvqoeshrubpyqvsorp.sCbh,sJsyqzbsybqie
hrubvyjomsanijrnhsrosvyqvsharib,shji;syrpsvyqvsqsejhuqhvbesuqosobzbi
bovjibdcsdrhbhsvybstbbdjomsrtsyjhsrdeshgqi,sfnvsjvspjddsfbshvjdd
gija jomsyjusqvsvjubh.sUqcsJsynufdcsqh sjtsjvsfbsibqddcshr,shji?

Jvsjh,suqo.sDrr ,sgnvsvycsdjzbsdbmsybibsjosvybsgdqabspybibsujobsroab
pqh;shr,sorp,sybibsjhsrodcsrobsejhvjoavsdbmsvrsvybsbcb,scbvsvprsvrsvyb
hrnd.sPybibsvyrnstbbdbhvsvjomdjomsdjtb;svybib,sbxqavdcsvybib,svybibsvr
qsyqji,sersJ.sJh’vsqsijeedb?

Jshyrndesynufdcsaqddsjvsqsgrhbi,shji.

Yjhv,svybo.sYrpserhvsvyrns orpsvyqvshrubsbovjib,sdjzjom,svyjo jomsvyjom
uqcsorvsfbsjozjhjfdcsqoesnojovbigbobviqvjomdcshvqoejomsgibajhbdcspybib
vyrnsorpshvqoebhv;sqcb,sqoeshvqoejomsvybibsjosvycshgjvb?sJosvycsurhv
hrdjvqicsyrnih,svybo,serhvsvyrnsorvstbqisbqzbheirggbih?sYrde,sero’v
hgbq !sQoesjtsJshvjddstbbdsvybshuqivsrtsucsainhybesdbm,svyrnmysjvsfb
orpshrsdromsejhhrdzbe;svybo,spycsuqchvsorvsvyrn,saqigbovbi,stbbdsvyb
tjbicsgqjohsrtsybddstrisbzbi,sqoespjvyrnvsqsfrec?sYqy!

MrresDrie!sVindc,shji,sjtsjvsarubhsvrsvyqv,sJsunhvsaqdandqvbsrzbi
qmqjo;sJsvyjo sJsejeo’vsaqiicsqshuqddstjmnib,shji.

Drr scb,sgneejom-ybqehshyrndesobzbismiqovsgibujhbh.—Yrpsdromsfbtribsvyb
dbmsjhserob?

Gbiyqghsqosyrni,shji.

Fnomdbsqpqcsqvsjvsvybo,sqoesfijomsjvsvrsubs(_vniohsvrsmr_).sRy,sDjtb!
YbibsJsqu,sgirnesqhsMibb smre,sqoescbvshvqoejomsebfvrisvrsvyjh
fdra ybqestrisqsfrobsvrshvqoesro!sAnihbesfbsvyqvsurivqd
jovbi-joebfvbeobhhspyjayspjddsorvsersqpqcspjvysdbembih.sJsprndesfbstibb
qhsqji;sqoesJ’userposjosvybspyrdbspride’hsfrr h.sJsqushrsijay,sJsarnde
yqzbsmjzbosfjestrisfjespjvysvybspbqdvyjbhvsGiævrijqohsqvsvybsqnavjrosrt
vybsIruqosbugjibs(pyjayspqhsvybspride’h);sqoescbvsJsrpbstrisvybstdbhy
josvybsvromnbsJsfiqmspjvy.sFcsybqzboh!sJ’ddsmbvsqsainajfdb,sqoesjovr
jv,sqoesejhhrdzbsuchbdtserposvrsrobshuqdd,sarugboejrnhszbivbfiq.sHr.

AQIGBOVBIs(_ibhnujomsyjhspri _).

Pbdd,spbdd,spbdd!sHvnffs orphsyjusfbhvsrtsqdd,sqoesHvnffsqdpqchshqch
yb’hslnbbi;shqchsorvyjomsfnvsvyqvsrobshnttjajbovsdjvvdbsprieslnbbi;
yb’hslnbbi,shqchsHvnff;syb’hslnbbi—lnbbi,slnbbi;sqoes bbghsejoojomsjv
jovrsUi.sHvqifna sqddsvybsvjub—lnbbi—hji—lnbbi,slnbbi,szbicslnbbi.sQoe
ybib’hsyjhsdbm!sCbh,sorpsvyqvsJsvyjo srtsjv,sybib’hsyjhsfbetbddrp!syqh
qshvja srtspyqdb’hskqp-frobstrisqspjtb!sQoesvyjhsjhsyjhsdbm;syb’dd
hvqoesrosvyjh.sPyqvspqhsvyqvsorpsqfrnvsrobsdbmshvqoejomsjosvyibb
gdqabh,sqoesqddsvyibbsgdqabhshvqoejomsjosrobsybdd—yrpspqhsvyqv?sRy!sJ
ero’vsproebisybsdrr beshrshariotndsqvsub!sJ’usqshrivsrt
hviqomb-vyrnmyvbeshrubvjubh,svybcshqc;sfnvsvyqv’hsrodcsyqgyqwqie-dj b.
Vybo,sqshyriv,sdjvvdbsrdesfrecsdj bsub,shyrndesobzbisnoebivq bsvrspqeb
rnvsjovrsebbgspqvbihspjvysvqdd,sybiro-fnjdvsaqgvqjoh;svybspqvbisayna h
crnsnoebisvybsayjosgibvvcslnja ,sqoesvybib’hsqsmibqvsaicstri
djtb-frqvh.sQoesybib’hsvybsybiro’hsdbm!sdromsqoeshdju,shnibsbornmy!
Orp,strisurhvstrd hsrobsgqjisrtsdbmhsdqhvhsqsdjtbvjub,sqoesvyqvsunhvsfb
fbaqnhbsvybcsnhbsvybusubiajtnddc,sqhsqsvboebi-ybqivbesrdesdqecsnhbhsybi
irdc-grdcsrdesarqay-yrihbh.sFnvsQyqf;srysyb’hsqsyqieseijzbi.sDrr ,
eijzbosrobsdbmsvrsebqvy,sqoeshgqzjobesvybsrvybistrisdjtb,sqoesorpspbqih
rnvsfrobsdbmhsfcsvybsarie.sYqddrq,svybib,scrnsHunv!sfbqisqsyqoesvybib
pjvysvyrhbshaibph,sqoesdbv’hstjojhysjvsfbtribsvybsibhniibavjrostbddrp
arubhsq-aqddjomspjvysyjhsyriostrisqddsdbmh,svinbsristqdhb,sqh
fibpbic-ubosmrsirnoesarddbavjomsrdesfbbisfqiibdh,svrstjdds’busngsqmqjo.
Pyqvsqsdbmsvyjhsjh!sJvsdrr hsdj bsqsibqdsdjzbsdbm,stjdbeserposvr
orvyjomsfnvsvybsarib;syb’ddsfbshvqoejomsrosvyjhsvr-uriirp;syb’ddsfb
vq jomsqdvjvnebhsrosjv.sYqddrq!sJsqdurhvstrimrvsvybsdjvvdbsrzqdshdqvb,
hurrvybesjzric,spybibsybstjmnibhsngsvybsdqvjvneb.sHr,shr;sayjhbd,stjdb,
qoeshqoe-gqgbi,sorp!


AYQGVBIs109.sQyqfsqoesHvqifna sjosvybsAqfjo.

Qaariejomsvrsnhqmbsvybcspbibsgnugjomsvybshyjgsobxvsuriojom;sqoesdr!sor
joarohjebiqfdbsrjdsaqubsngspjvysvybspqvbi;svybsaqh hsfbdrpsunhvsyqzb
hginomsqsfqesdbq .sUnaysaroabiospqhshyrpo;sqoesHvqifna spbovserposjovr
vybsaqfjosvrsibgrivsvyjhsnotqzrniqfdbsqttqji.*

*JosHgbiu-pyqdbubospjvysqocsarohjebiqfdbslnqovjvcsrtsrjdsrosfrqie,sjv
jhsqsibmndqishbuj-pbb dcsenvcsvrsaroenavsqsyrhbsjovrsvybsyrde,sqoe
eiboaysvybsaqh hspjvyshbq-pqvbi;spyjaysqtvbipqieh,sqvszqicjom
jovbizqdh,sjhsiburzbesfcsvybshyjg’hsgnugh.sYbibfcsvybsaqh hsqibshrnmyv
vrsfbs bgvsequgdcsvjmyv;spyjdbsfcsvybsayqombesayqiqavbisrtsvyb
pjvyeiqpospqvbi,svybsuqijobihsibqejdcsebvbavsqocshbijrnhsdbq qmbsjosvyb
gibajrnhsaqimr.

Orp,stirusvybsHrnvysqoesPbhvsvybsGblnrespqhseiqpjomsojmysvrsTriurhqsqoe
vybsFqhybbsJhdbh,sfbvpbbospyjaysdjbhsrobsrtsvybsvirgjaqdsrnvdbvhstiru
vybsAyjoqspqvbihsjovrsvybsGqajtja.sQoeshrsHvqifna strnoesQyqfspjvysq
mbobiqdsayqivsrtsvybsrijbovqdsqiayjgbdqmrbhshgibqesfbtribsyju;sqoe
qorvybishbgqiqvbsrobsibgibhbovjomsvybsdromsbqhvbiosarqhvhsrtsvyb
Kqgqobhbsjhdqoeh—Ojgyro,sUqvhuqj,sqoesHj r b.sPjvysyjhshorp-pyjvbsobp
jzricsdbmsfiqabesqmqjohvsvybshaibpbesdbmsrtsyjhsvqfdb,sqoespjvysqsdrom
ginojom-yrr srtsqskqa - ojtbsjosyjhsyqoe,svybsproeirnhsrdesuqo,spjvy
yjhsfqa svrsvybsmqompqcserri,spqhspijo djomsyjhsfirp,sqoesviqajomsyjh
rdesarnihbhsqmqjo.

“Pyr’hsvybib?”sybqijomsvybstrrvhvbgsqvsvybserri,sfnvsorvsvniojomsirnoe
vrsjv.s“Roseba !sFbmrob!”

“AqgvqjosQyqfsujhvq bh;sjvsjhsJ.sVybsrjdsjosvybsyrdesjhsdbq jom,shji.
PbsunhvsngsFnivrohsqoesfibq srnv.”

“NgsFnivrohsqoesfibq srnv?sOrpsvyqvspbsqibsobqijomsKqgqo;sybqzb-vrsybib
trisqspbb svrsvjo bisqsgqiabdsrtsrdesyrrgh?”

“Bjvybisersvyqv,shji,srispqhvbsjosrobseqcsuribsrjdsvyqospbsuqcsuq b
mrresjosqscbqi.sPyqvspbsarubsvpbovcsvyrnhqoesujdbhsvrsmbvsjhsprivy
hqzjom,shji.”

“Hrsjvsjh,shrsjvsjh;sjtspbsmbvsjv.”

“Jspqhshgbq jomsrtsvybsrjdsjosvybsyrde,shji.”

“QoesJspqhsorvshgbq jomsrisvyjo jomsrtsvyqvsqvsqdd.sFbmrob!sDbvsjv
dbq !sJ’usqddsqdbq suchbdt.sQcb!sdbq hsjosdbq h!sorvsrodcstnddsrtsdbq c
aqh h,sfnvsvyrhbsdbq csaqh hsqibsjosqsdbq cshyjg;sqoesvyqv’hsqstqi
prihbsgdjmyvsvyqosvybsGblnre’h,suqo.sCbvsJsero’vshvrgsvrsgdnmsucsdbq ;
trispyrsaqostjoesjvsjosvybsebbg-drqebesyndd;srisyrpsyrgbsvrsgdnmsjv,
bzbosjtstrnoe,sjosvyjhsdjtb’hsyrpdjomsmqdb?sHvqifna !sJ’ddsorvsyqzbsvyb
Fnivrohsyrjhvbe.”

“Pyqvspjddsvybsrpobihshqc,shji?”

“DbvsvybsrpobihshvqoesrosOqovna bvsfbqaysqoesrnvcbddsvybsVcgyrroh.sPyqv
aqibhsQyqf?sRpobih,srpobih?sVyrnsqivsqdpqchsgiqvjomsvrsub,sHvqifna ,
qfrnvsvyrhbsujhbidcsrpobih,sqhsjtsvybsrpobihspbibsucsarohajboab.sFnv
drr scb,svybsrodcsibqdsrpobisrtsqocvyjomsjhsjvhsaruuqoebi;sqoesyqi scb,
ucsarohajboabsjhsjosvyjhshyjg’hs bbd.—Roseba !”

“AqgvqjosQyqf,”shqjesvybsibeebojomsuqvb,surzjomstnivybisjovrsvybsaqfjo,
pjvysqseqijomshrshviqombdcsibhgbavtndsqoesaqnvjrnhsvyqvsjvsqdurhv
hbbubesorvsrodcsbzbicspqcshbb jomsvrsqzrjesvybshdjmyvbhvsrnvpqie
uqojtbhvqvjrosrtsjvhbdt,sfnvspjvyjosqdhrshbbubesuribsvyqosyqdt
ejhvinhvtndsrtsjvhbdt;s“QsfbvvbisuqosvyqosJsujmyvspbddsgqhhsrzbisjo
vybbspyqvsybsprndeslnja dcsbornmysibhbovsjosqscrnombisuqo;sqcb,sqoesjo
qsyqggjbi,sAqgvqjosQyqf.”

“Ebzjdh!sErhvsvyrnsvyboshrsunaysqhseqibsvrsaijvjaqddcsvyjo srtsub?—Ro
eba !”

“Oqc,shji,sorvscbv;sJsersbovibqv.sQoesJserseqib,shji—vrsfbstrifbqijom!
Hyqddspbsorvsnoebihvqoesbqaysrvybisfbvvbisvyqosyjvybivr,sAqgvqjosQyqf?”

Qyqfshbjwbesqsdrqebesunh bvstirusvybsiqa s(triujomsgqivsrtsurhv
Hrnvy-Hbq-ubo’hsaqfjostniojvnib),sqoesgrjovjomsjvsvrpqiehsHvqifna ,
bxadqjube:s“VybibsjhsrobsMresvyqvsjhsDriesrzbisvybsbqivy,sqoesrob
AqgvqjosvyqvsjhsdriesrzbisvybsGblnre.—Roseba !”

Trisqosjohvqovsjosvybstdqhyjomsbcbhsrtsvybsuqvb,sqoesyjhstjbicsaybb h,
crnsprndesyqzbsqdurhvsvyrnmyvsvyqvsybsyqesibqddcsibabjzbesvybsfdqwbsrt
vybsdbzbddbesvnfb.sFnv,suqhvbijomsyjhsburvjro,sybsyqdtsaqdudcsirhb,sqoe
qhsybslnjvvbesvybsaqfjo,sgqnhbestrisqosjohvqovsqoeshqje:s“Vyrnsyqhv
rnviqmbe,sorvsjohndvbesub,shji;sfnvstrisvyqvsJsqh svybbsorvsvrsfbpqib
rtsHvqifna ;svyrnsprndehvsfnvsdqnmy;sfnvsdbvsQyqfsfbpqibsrtsQyqf;
fbpqibsrtsvychbdt,srdesuqo.”

“Ybspqxbhsfiqzb,sfnvsobzbivybdbhhsrfbch;surhvsaqibtndsfiqzbicsvyqv!”
uniunibesQyqf,sqhsHvqifna sejhqggbqibe.s“Pyqv’hsvyqvsybshqje—Qyqf
fbpqibsrtsQyqf—vybib’hshrubvyjomsvybib!”sVybosnoarohajrnhdcsnhjomsvyb
unh bvstrisqshvqtt,spjvysqosjirosfirpsybsgqabesvrsqoestirsjosvybsdjvvdb
aqfjo;sfnvsgibhbovdcsvybsvyja sgdqjvhsrtsyjhstribybqesibdqxbe,sqoe
ibvniojomsvybsmnosvrsvybsiqa ,sybspbovsvrsvybseba .

“Vyrnsqivsfnvsvrrsmrresqstbddrp,sHvqifna ,”sybshqjesdrpdcsvrsvybsuqvb;
vybosiqjhjomsyjhszrjabsvrsvybsaibp:s“Tnidsvybsv’mqddqov-hqjdh,sqoe
adrhb-ibbtsvybsvrg-hqjdh,stribsqoesqtv;sfqa svybsuqjo-cqie;sngsFnivro,
qoesfibq srnvsjosvybsuqjo-yrde.”

Jvspbibsgbiyqghszqjosvrshniujhbsbxqavdcspycsjvspqh,svyqvsqhsibhgbavjom
Hvqifna ,sQyqfsvynhsqavbe.sJvsuqcsyqzbsfbbosqstdqhysrtsyrobhvcsjosyju;
risubibsginebovjqdsgrdjacspyjay,snoebisvybsajianuhvqoab,sjugbijrnhdc
trifqebsvybshdjmyvbhvshcugvrusrtsrgbosejhqttbavjro,syrpbzbisviqohjbov,
josvybsjugrivqovsayjbtsrttjabisrtsyjhshyjg.sYrpbzbisjvspqh,syjhsriebih
pbibsbxbanvbe;sqoesvybsFnivrohspbibsyrjhvbe.


AYQGVBIs110.sLnbblnbmsjosYjhsArttjo.

Ngroshbqiayjom,sjvspqhstrnoesvyqvsvybsaqh hsdqhvshvina sjovrsvybsyrde
pbibsgbitbavdcshrnoe,sqoesvyqvsvybsdbq sunhvsfbstnivybisrtt.sHr,sjv
fbjomsaqduspbqvybi,svybcsfir bsrnvsebbgbisqoesebbgbi,sejhvnifjomsvyb
hdnufbihsrtsvybsynmbsmirnoe-vjbisfnvvh;sqoestirusvyqvsfdqa sujeojmyv
hboejomsvyrhbsmjmqovjasurdbhsjovrsvybseqcdjmyvsqfrzb.sHrsebbgsejesvybc
mr;sqoeshrsqoajbov,sqoesariirebe,sqoespbbecsvybsqhgbavsrtsvybsdrpbiurhv
gnoaybroh,svyqvscrnsqdurhvsdrr besobxvstrishrubsurndecsariobi-hvrob
aqh sarovqjojomsarjohsrtsAqgvqjosOrqy,spjvysargjbhsrtsvybsgrhvbe
gdqaqieh,szqjodcspqiojomsvybsjotqvnqvbesrdespridestirusvybstdrre.
Vjbiabsqtvbisvjbiab,svrr,srtspqvbi,sqoesfibqe,sqoesfbbt,sqoeshyrr hsrt
hvqzbh,sqoesjirosfnoedbhsrtsyrrgh,spbibsyrjhvbesrnv,svjddsqvsdqhvsvyb
gjdbeseba hspbibsyqiesvrsmbvsqfrnv;sqoesvybsyrddrpsynddsbayrbesnoebi
trrv,sqhsjtscrnspbibsvibqejomsrzbisbugvcsaqvqarufh,sqoesibbdbesqoe
irddbesjosvybshbqsdj bsqosqji-tibjmyvbesebujkryo.sVrg-ybqzcspqhsvyb
hyjgsqhsqsejoobidbhhshvnebovspjvysqddsQijhvrvdbsjosyjhsybqe.sPbddspqh
jvsvyqvsvybsVcgyrrohsejesorvszjhjvsvybusvybo.

Orp,sqvsvyjhsvjubsjvspqhsvyqvsucsgrrisgqmqosarugqojro,sqoestqhv
frhru-tijboe,sLnbblnbm,spqhshbjwbespjvysqstbzbi,spyjaysfirnmyvsyjusojmy
vrsyjhsboedbhhsboe.

Fbsjvshqje,svyqvsjosvyjhszraqvjrosrtspyqdjom,shjobanibhsqibsno orpo;
ejmojvcsqoeseqombismrsyqoesjosyqoe;svjddscrnsmbvsvrsfbsAqgvqjo,svyb
yjmybiscrnsijhbsvybsyqiebiscrnsvrjd.sHrspjvysgrrisLnbblnbm,spyr,sqh
yqigrrobbi,sunhvsorvsrodcstqabsqddsvybsiqmbsrtsvybsdjzjomspyqdb,sfnv—qh
pbsyqzbsbdhbpybibshbbo—urnovsyjhsebqesfqa sjosqsirddjomshbq;sqoe
tjoqddcsebhaboesjovrsvybsmdrrusrtsvybsyrde,sqoesfjvvbidcshpbqvjomsqdd
eqcsjosvyqvshnfvbiiqobrnhsarotjobubov,sibhrdnvbdcsuqoyqoedbsvyb
adnuhjbhvsaqh hsqoeshbbsvrsvybjishvrpqmb.sVrsfbshyriv,squromspyqdbubo,
vybsyqigrrobbihsqibsvybsyrdebih,shrsaqddbe.

GrrisLnbblnbm!spybosvybshyjgspqhsqfrnvsyqdtsejhbufrpbddbe,scrnshyrnde
yqzbshvrrgbesrzbisvybsyqvaypqc,sqoesgbbibeserposngrosyjusvybib;spybib,
hvijggbesvrsyjhsprrddboseiqpbih,svybsvqvvrrbeshqzqmbspqhsaiqpdjomsqfrnv
qujesvyqvsequgobhhsqoeshdjub,sdj bsqsmibboshgrvvbesdjwqiesqvsvybsfrvvru
rtsqspbdd.sQoesqspbdd,srisqosjab-yrnhb,sjvshrubyrpsgirzbesvrsyju,sgrri
gqmqo;spybib,shviqombsvrshqc,strisqddsvybsybqvsrtsyjhshpbqvjomh,syb
aqnmyvsqsvbiijfdbsayjddspyjaysdqghbesjovrsqstbzbi;sqoesqvsdqhv,sqtvbi
hrubseqch’shnttbijom,sdqjesyjusjosyjhsyquura ,sadrhbsvrsvybszbicshjdd
rtsvybserrisrtsebqvy.sYrpsybspqhvbesqoespqhvbesqpqcsjosvyrhbstbp
drom-djombijomseqch,svjddsvybibshbbubesfnvsdjvvdbsdbtvsrtsyjusfnvsyjh
tiqubsqoesvqvvrrjom.sFnvsqhsqddsbdhbsjosyjusvyjoobe,sqoesyjh
aybb -frobhsmibpshyqigbi,syjhsbcbh,sobzbivybdbhh,shbbubesmirpjomstnddbi
qoestnddbi;svybcsfbaqubsrtsqshviqombshrtvobhhsrtsdnhvib;sqoesujdedcsfnv
ebbgdcsdrr besrnvsqvscrnsvybibstirusyjhshja obhh,sqsproeirnhsvbhvjuroc
vrsvyqvsjuurivqdsybqdvysjosyjuspyjaysarndesorvsejb,srisfbspbq bobe.sQoe
dj bsajiadbhsrosvybspqvbi,spyjay,sqhsvybcsmirpstqjovbi,sbxgqoe;shrsyjh
bcbhshbbubesirnoejomsqoesirnoejom,sdj bsvybsijomhsrtsBvbiojvc.sQosqpb
vyqvsaqoorvsfbsoqubesprndeshvbqdsrzbiscrnsqhscrnshqvsfcsvybshjebsrt
vyjhspqojomshqzqmb,sqoeshqpsqhshviqombsvyjomhsjosyjhstqab,sqhsqoc
fbybdespyrspbibsfchvqoebihspybosWrirqhvbisejbe.sTrispyqvbzbisjhsvindc
proeirnhsqoestbqitndsjosuqo,sobzbiscbvspqhsgnvsjovrspriehsrisfrr h.sQoe
vybseiqpjomsobqisrtsEbqvy,spyjaysqdj bsdbzbdhsqdd,sqdj bsjugibhhbhsqdd
pjvysqsdqhvsibzbdqvjro,spyjaysrodcsqosqnvyristirusvybsebqesarnde
qeblnqvbdcsvbdd.sHrsvyqv—dbvsnhshqcsjvsqmqjo—orsecjomsAyqdebbsrisMibb 
yqesyjmybisqoesyrdjbisvyrnmyvhsvyqosvyrhb,spyrhbsuchvbijrnhshyqebhscrn
hqpsaibbgjomsrzbisvybstqabsrtsgrrisLnbblnbm,sqhsybslnjbvdcsdqcsjosyjh
hpqcjomsyquura ,sqoesvybsirddjomshbqshbbubesmbovdcsira jomsyjusvrsyjh
tjoqdsibhv,sqoesvybsrabqo’hsjozjhjfdbstdrre-vjebsdjtvbesyjusyjmybisqoe
yjmybisvrpqiehsyjhsebhvjobesybqzbo.

Orvsqsuqosrtsvybsaibpsfnvsmqzbsyjusng;sqoe,sqhstrisLnbblnbmsyjuhbdt,
pyqvsybsvyrnmyvsrtsyjhsaqhbspqhstriajfdcshyrposfcsqsanijrnhstqzrnisyb
qh be.sYbsaqddbesrobsvrsyjusjosvybsmibcsuriojomspqvay,spybosvybseqcspqh
knhvsfibq jom,sqoesvq jomsyjhsyqoe,shqjesvyqvspyjdbsjosOqovna bvsybsyqe
ayqoabesvrshbbsabivqjosdjvvdbsaqorbhsrtseqi sprre,sdj bsvybsijay
pqi-prresrtsyjhsoqvjzbsjhdb;sqoesngrosjolnjic,sybsyqesdbqiobesvyqvsqdd
pyqdbubospyrsejbesjosOqovna bv,spbibsdqjesjosvyrhbshqubseqi saqorbh,
qoesvyqvsvybstqoacsrtsfbjomshrsdqjesyqesunaysgdbqhbesyju;strisjvspqh
orvsnodj bsvybsanhvrusrtsyjhsrposiqab,spyr,sqtvbisbufqdujomsqsebqe
pqiijri,shvibvaybesyjusrnvsjosyjhsaqorb,sqoeshrsdbtvsyjusvrsfbstdrqvbe
qpqcsvrsvybshvqiicsqiayjgbdqmrbh;strisorvsrodcsersvybcsfbdjbzbsvyqvsvyb
hvqihsqibsjhdbh,sfnvsvyqvstqisfbcroesqddszjhjfdbsyrijwroh,svybjisrpo
ujde,snoarovjobovbeshbqh,sjovbitdrpspjvysvybsfdnbsybqzboh;sqoeshrstriu
vybspyjvbsfibq bihsrtsvybsujd cspqc.sYbsqeebe,svyqvsybshyneebibesqvsvyb
vyrnmyvsrtsfbjomsfnijbesjosyjhsyquura ,sqaariejomsvrsvybsnhnqd
hbq-anhvru,svrhhbesdj bshrubvyjomszjdbsvrsvybsebqvy-ebzrnijomshyqi h.
Or:sybsebhjibesqsaqorbsdj bsvyrhbsrtsOqovna bv,sqddsvybsuribsarombojqd
vrsyju,sfbjomsqspyqdbuqo,svyqvsdj bsqspyqdb-frqvsvybhbsarttjo-aqorbh
pbibspjvyrnvsqs bbd;svyrnmysvyqvsjozrdzbesfnvsnoabivqjoshvbbijom,sqoe
unaysdbb-pqcsqerposvybsejusqmbh.

Orp,spybosvyjhshviqombsajianuhvqoabspqhsuqebs orposqtv,svybsaqigbovbi
pqhsqvsroabsaruuqoebesvrsersLnbblnbm’hsfjeejom,spyqvbzbisjvsujmyv
joadneb.sVybibspqhshrubsybqvybojhy,sarttjo-ardrnibesrdesdnufbisqfrqie,
pyjay,sngrosqsdromsgibzjrnhszrcqmb,syqesfbbosanvstirusvybsqfrijmjoqd
mirzbhsrtsvybsDqa qeqcsjhdqoeh,sqoestirusvybhbseqi sgdqo hsvybsarttjo
pqhsibaruuboebesvrsfbsuqeb.sOrshrrobispqhsvybsaqigbovbisqggijhbesrtsvyb
riebi,svyqosvq jomsyjhsindb,sybstrivypjvyspjvysqddsvybsjoejttbibov
girugvjvnebsrtsyjhsayqiqavbi,sgirabbebesjovrsvybstribaqhvdbsqoesvrr 
Lnbblnbm’hsubqhnibspjvysmibqvsqaaniqac,sibmndqidcsayqd jomsLnbblnbm’h
gbihrosqhsybshyjtvbesvybsindb.

“Qy!sgrristbddrp!syb’ddsyqzbsvrsejbsorp,”sbkqandqvbesvybsDromsJhdqoe
hqjdri.

Mrjomsvrsyjhszjab-fboay,svybsaqigbovbistrisarozbojboabshq bsqoesmbobiqd
ibtbiboab,sorpsviqohtbiijomdcsubqhnibesrosjvsvybsbxqavsdbomvysvyb
arttjospqhsvrsfb,sqoesvybosuqebsvybsviqohtbisgbiuqobovsfcsanvvjomsvpr
orvaybhsqvsjvhsbxvibujvjbh.sVyjhserob,sybsuqihyqddbesvybsgdqo hsqoesyjh
vrrdh,sqoesvrspri .

Pybosvybsdqhvsoqjdspqhseijzbo,sqoesvybsdjesendcsgdqobesqoestjvvbe,syb
djmyvdcshyrndebibesvybsarttjosqoespbovstripqiespjvysjv,sjolnjijom
pybvybisvybcspbibsibqecstrisjvscbvsjosvyqvsejibavjro.

Rzbiybqijomsvybsjoejmoqovsfnvsyqdt-ynurirnhsaijbhspjvyspyjaysvybsgbrgdb
roseba sfbmqosvrseijzbsvybsarttjosqpqc,sLnbblnbm,svrsbzbicsrob’h
arohvbioqvjro,saruuqoebesvyqvsvybsvyjomshyrndesfbsjohvqovdcsfirnmyvsvr
yju,sorispqhsvybibsqocsebocjomsyju;shbbjomsvyqv,srtsqddsurivqdh,shrub
ecjomsubosqibsvybsurhvsvciqoojaqd;sqoesabivqjodc,shjoabsvybcspjdd
hyrivdcsvirnfdbsnhshrsdjvvdbstrisbzbiurib,svybsgrristbddrphsrnmyvsvrsfb
joendmbe.

Dbqojomsrzbisjosyjhsyquura ,sLnbblnbmsdromsibmqiebesvybsarttjospjvysqo
qvvbovjzbsbcb.sYbsvybosaqddbestrisyjhsyqigrro,syqesvybsprreboshvra 
eiqpostirusjv,sqoesvybosyqesvybsjirosgqivsgdqabesjosvybsarttjosqdrom
pjvysrobsrtsvybsgqeedbhsrtsyjhsfrqv.sQddsfcsyjhsrposiblnbhv,sqdhr,
fjhanjvhspbibsvybosiqombesirnoesvybshjebhspjvyjo:sqstdqh srtstibhy
pqvbispqhsgdqabesqvsvybsybqe,sqoesqshuqddsfqmsrtsprrecsbqivyshaiqgbesng
josvybsyrdesqvsvybstrrv;sqoesqsgjbabsrtshqjd-adrvysfbjomsirddbesngstri
qsgjddrp,sLnbblnbmsorpsbovibqvbesvrsfbsdjtvbesjovrsyjhstjoqdsfbe,svyqv
ybsujmyvsuq bsvijqdsrtsjvhsarutrivh,sjtsqocsjvsyqe.sYbsdqcspjvyrnv
urzjomsqstbpsujonvbh,svybosvrdesrobsvrsmrsvrsyjhsfqmsqoesfijomsrnvsyjh
djvvdbsmre,sCrkr.sVybosairhhjomsyjhsqiuhsrosyjhsfibqhvspjvysCrkr
fbvpbbo,sybsaqddbestrisvybsarttjosdjes(yqvaysybsaqddbesjv)svrsfbsgdqabe
rzbisyju.sVybsybqesgqivsvniobesrzbispjvysqsdbqvybisyjomb,sqoesvybibsdqc
Lnbblnbmsjosyjhsarttjospjvysdjvvdbsfnvsyjhsarugrhbesarnovboqoabsjo
zjbp.s“Iqiuqj”s(jvspjddser;sjvsjhsbqhc),sybsuniunibesqvsdqhv,sqoe
hjmobesvrsfbsibgdqabesjosyjhsyquura .

Fnvsbibsvyjhspqhserob,sGjg,spyrsyqesfbboshdjdcsyrzbijomsobqisfcsqdd
vyjhspyjdb,seibpsojmysvrsyjuspybibsybsdqc,sqoespjvyshrtvshrffjomh,svrr 
yjusfcsvybsyqoe;sjosvybsrvybi,syrdejomsyjhsvqufrnijob.

“Grrisirzbi!spjddscbsobzbisyqzbserobspjvysqddsvyjhspbqicsirzjom?spybib
mrscbsorp?sFnvsjtsvybsaniibovhsaqiicscbsvrsvyrhbshpbbvsQovjddbhspybib
vybsfbqaybhsqibsrodcsfbqvspjvyspqvbi-djdjbh,spjddscbsersrobsdjvvdb
biiqoestrisub?sHbb srnvsrobsGjg,spyr’hsorpsfbbosujhhjomsdrom:sJsvyjo 
yb’hsjosvyrhbstqisQovjddbh.sJtscbstjoesyju,svybosarutrivsyju;strisyb
unhvsfbszbicshqe;strisdrr !syb’hsdbtvsyjhsvqufrnijobsfbyjoe;—Jstrnoe
jv.sIjm-q-ejm,sejm,sejm!sOrp,sLnbblnbm,sejb;sqoesJ’ddsfbqvscbscrni
ecjomsuqiay.”

“Jsyqzbsybqie,”suniunibesHvqifna ,smqwjomserposvybshanvvdb,s“vyqvsjo
zjrdbovstbzbih,subo,sqddsjmoriqoab,syqzbsvqd besjosqoajbovsvromnbh;sqoe
vyqvspybosvybsuchvbicsjhsgirfbe,sjvsvniohsrnvsqdpqchsvyqvsjosvybji
pyrddcstrimrvvbosayjdeyrresvyrhbsqoajbovsvromnbhsyqesfbbosibqddcshgr bo
josvybjisybqijomsfcshrubsdrtvcshayrdqih.sHr,svrsucstroestqjvy,sgrri
Gjg,sjosvyjhshviqombshpbbvobhhsrtsyjhsdnoqac,sfijomhsybqzbodcszrnaybih
rtsqddsrnisybqzbodcsyrubh.sPybibsdbqiobesybsvyqv,sfnvsvybib?—Yqi !syb
hgbq hsqmqjo:sfnvsuribspjdedcsorp.”

“Triusvprsqoesvpr!sDbv’hsuq bsqsMbobiqdsrtsyju!sYr,spybib’hsyjh
yqigrro?sDqcsjvsqairhhsybib.—Ijm-q-ejm,sejm,sejm!synwwq!sRystrisqsmqub
ara sorpsvrshjvsngrosyjhsybqesqoesairp!sLnbblnbmsejbhsmqub!—ujoescb
vyqv;sLnbblnbmsejbhsmqub!—vq bscbsmrresybbesrtsvyqv;sLnbblnbmsejbh
mqub!sJshqc;smqub,smqub,smqub!sfnvsfqhbsdjvvdbsGjg,sybsejbesqsarpqie;
ejbesqddsq’hyjzbi;—rnvsngrosGjg!sYqi scb;sjtscbstjoesGjg,svbddsqddsvyb
Qovjddbhsyb’hsqsinoqpqc;sqsarpqie,sqsarpqie,sqsarpqie!sVbddsvybusyb
knugbestirusqspyqdb-frqv!sJ’esobzbisfbqvsucsvqufrnijobsrzbisfqhbsGjg,
qoesyqjdsyjusMbobiqd,sjtsybspbibsroabsuribsecjomsybib.sOr,sor!shyqub
ngrosqddsarpqieh—hyqubsngrosvybu!sDbvs’busmrseirposdj bsGjg,svyqv
knugbestirusqspyqdb-frqv.sHyqub!shyqub!”

Enijomsqddsvyjh,sLnbblnbmsdqcspjvysadrhbesbcbh,sqhsjtsjosqseibqu.sGjg
pqhsdbesqpqc,sqoesvybshja suqospqhsibgdqabesjosyjhsyquura .

Fnvsorpsvyqvsybsyqesqggqibovdcsuqebsbzbicsgibgqiqvjrostrisebqvy;sorp
vyqvsyjhsarttjospqhsgirzbesqsmrrestjv,sLnbblnbmshneebodcsiqddjbe;shrro
vybibshbbubesorsobbesrtsvybsaqigbovbi’hsfrx:sqoesvybibngro,spyboshrub
bxgibhhbesvybjisebdjmyvbeshnigijhb,syb,sjoshnfhvqoab,shqje,svyqvsvyb
aqnhbsrtsyjhshneebosarozqdbhaboabspqhsvyjh;—qvsqsaijvjaqdsurubov,syb
yqesknhvsibaqddbesqsdjvvdbsenvcsqhyrib,spyjaysybspqhsdbqzjomsnoerob;
qoesvybibtribsyqesayqombesyjhsujoesqfrnvsecjom:sybsarndesorvsejbscbv,
ybsqzbiibe.sVybcsqh besyju,svybo,spybvybisvrsdjzbsrisejbspqhsqsuqvvbi
rtsyjhsrposhrzbibjmospjddsqoesgdbqhnib.sYbsqohpbibe,sabivqjodc.sJosq
prie,sjvspqhsLnbblnbm’hsaroabjv,svyqvsjtsqsuqosuqebsngsyjhsujoesvr
djzb,subibshja obhhsarndesorvs jddsyju:sorvyjomsfnvsqspyqdb,srisqsmqdb,
rishrubszjrdbov,snomrzbioqfdb,snojovbddjmbovsebhvircbisrtsvyqvshriv.

Orp,svybibsjhsvyjhsorvbprivycsejttbiboabsfbvpbboshqzqmbsqoesajzjdjwbe;
vyqvspyjdbsqshja ,sajzjdjwbesuqosuqcsfbshjxsurovyhsarozqdbhajom,
mbobiqddcshgbq jom,sqshja shqzqmbsjhsqdurhvsyqdt-pbddsqmqjosjosqseqc.
Hr,sjosmrresvjubsucsLnbblnbmsmqjobeshvibomvy;sqoesqvsdbomvysqtvbi
hjvvjomsrosvybspjoedqhhstrisqstbpsjoerdbovseqchs(fnvsbqvjomspjvysq
zjmrirnhsqggbvjvb)sybshneebodcsdbqgbesvrsyjhstbbv,svyibpsrnvsyjhsqiuh
qoesdbmh,smqzbsyjuhbdtsqsmrreshvibvayjom,scqpobesqsdjvvdbsfjv,sqoesvybo
hgijomjomsjovrsvybsybqesrtsyjhsyrjhvbesfrqv,sqoesgrjhjomsqsyqigrro,
girornoabesyjuhbdtstjvstrisqstjmyv.

Pjvysqspjdespyjuhjobhh,sybsorpsnhbesyjhsarttjostrisqshbq-aybhv;sqoe
bugvcjomsjovrsjvsyjhsaqozqhsfqmsrtsadrvybh,shbvsvybusjosriebisvybib.
Uqocshgqibsyrnihsybshgbov,sjosaqizjomsvybsdjespjvysqddsuqoobisrt
mirvbhlnbstjmnibhsqoeseiqpjomh;sqoesjvshbbubesvyqvsybibfcsybspqh
hvijzjom,sjosyjhsinebspqc,svrsargcsgqivhsrtsvybsvpjhvbesvqvvrrjomsro
yjhsfrec.sQoesvyjhsvqvvrrjomsyqesfbbosvybspri srtsqsebgqivbesgirgybv
qoeshbbisrtsyjhsjhdqoe,spyr,sfcsvyrhbsyjbirmdcgyjasuqi h,syqespijvvbo
rnvsrosyjhsfrecsqsarugdbvbsvybricsrtsvybsybqzbohsqoesvybsbqivy,sqoesq
uchvjaqdsvibqvjhbsrosvybsqivsrtsqvvqjojomsvinvy;shrsvyqvsLnbblnbmsjo
yjhsrposgirgbisgbihrospqhsqsijeedbsvrsnotrde;sqsproeirnhspri sjosrob
zrdnub;sfnvspyrhbsuchvbijbhsorvsbzbosyjuhbdtsarndesibqe,svyrnmysyjhsrpo
djzbsybqivsfbqvsqmqjohvsvybu;sqoesvybhbsuchvbijbhspbibsvybibtrib
ebhvjobesjosvybsboesvrsurndebisqpqcspjvysvybsdjzjomsgqiayubovspybibro
vybcspbibsjohaijfbe,sqoeshrsfbsnohrdzbesvrsvybsdqhv.sQoesvyjhsvyrnmyv
jvsunhvsyqzbsfbbospyjayshnmmbhvbesvrsQyqfsvyqvspjdesbxadquqvjrosrtsyjh,
pybosrobsuriojomsvniojomsqpqcstirushnizbcjomsgrrisLnbblnbm—“Ry,
ebzjdjhysvqovqdjwqvjrosrtsvybsmreh!”


AYQGVBIs111.sVybsGqajtja.

PybosmdjejomsfcsvybsFqhybbsjhdbhspbsbubimbesqvsdqhvsngrosvybsmibqv
HrnvysHbq;spbibsjvsorvstrisrvybisvyjomh,sJsarndesyqzbsmibbvbesucsebqi
Gqajtjaspjvysnoarnovbesvyqo h,strisorpsvybsdromshnggdjaqvjrosrtsuc
crnvyspqhsqohpbibe;svyqvshbibobsrabqosirddbesbqhvpqiehstirusubsq
vyrnhqoesdbqmnbhsrtsfdnb.

Vybibsjh,srobs orphsorvspyqvshpbbvsuchvbicsqfrnvsvyjhshbq,spyrhbsmbovdc
qptndshvjiijomhshbbusvrshgbq srtshrubsyjeeboshrndsfbobqvy;sdj bsvyrhb
tqfdbesnoendqvjrohsrtsvybsBgybhjqoshresrzbisvybsfnijbesBzqombdjhvsHv.
Kryo.sQoesubbvsjvsjh,svyqvsrzbisvybhbshbq-gqhvnibh,spjeb-irddjomspqvbic
giqjijbhsqoesGrvvbih’sTjbdehsrtsqddstrnisarovjobovh,svybspqzbhshyrnde
ijhbsqoestqdd,sqoesbffsqoestdrpsnoabqhjomdc;strisybib,sujddjrohsrt
ujxbeshyqebhsqoeshyqerph,seirpobeseibquh,shruoqufndjhuh,sibzbijbh;sqdd
vyqvspbsaqddsdjzbhsqoeshrndh,sdjbseibqujom,seibqujom,shvjdd;svrhhjom
dj bshdnufbibihsjosvybjisfbeh;svybsbzbi-irddjomspqzbhsfnvsuqebshrsfc
vybjisibhvdbhhobhh.

VrsqocsubejvqvjzbsUqmjqosirzbi,svyjhshbibobsGqajtja,sroabsfbybde,sunhv
bzbisqtvbisfbsvybshbqsrtsyjhsqergvjro.sJvsirddhsvybsujeurhvspqvbihsrt
vybspride,svybsJoejqosrabqosqoesQvdqovjasfbjomsfnvsjvhsqiuh.sVybshqub
pqzbhspqhysvybsurdbhsrtsvybsobp-fnjdvsAqdjtriojqosvrpoh,sfnvscbhvbieqc
gdqovbesfcsvybsibabovbhvsiqabsrtsubo,sqoesdqzbsvybstqebesfnvshvjdd
mrimbrnhsh jivhsrtsQhjqvjasdqoeh,srdebisvyqosQfiqyqu;spyjdbsqddsfbvpbbo
tdrqvsujd c-pqchsrtsariqdsjhdbh,sqoesdrp-dcjom,sboedbhh,sno orpo
Qiayjgbdqmrbh,sqoesjugbobviqfdbsKqgqoh.sVynhsvyjhsuchvbijrnh,sejzjob
Gqajtjaswrobhsvybspride’hspyrdbsfnd sqfrnv;suq bhsqddsarqhvhsrobsfqcsvr
jv;shbbuhsvybsvjeb-fbqvjomsybqivsrtsbqivy.sDjtvbesfcsvyrhbsbvbioqd
hpbddh,scrnsobbehsunhvsrposvybshbenavjzbsmre,sfrpjomscrnisybqesvrsGqo.

FnvstbpsvyrnmyvhsrtsGqoshvjiibesQyqf’hsfiqjo,sqhshvqoejomsdj bsqosjiro
hvqvnbsqvsyjhsqaanhvrubesgdqabsfbhjebsvybsujwbosijmmjom,spjvysrob
orhvijdsybsnovyjo jomdcshonttbesvybshnmqicsunh stirusvybsFqhybbsjhdbh
(jospyrhbshpbbvsprrehsujdesdrzbihsunhvsfbspqd jom),sqoespjvysvybsrvybi
arohajrnhdcsjoyqdbesvybshqdvsfibqvysrtsvybsobpstrnoeshbq;svyqvshbqsjo
pyjaysvybsyqvbesPyjvbsPyqdbsunhvsbzbosvybosfbshpjuujom.sDqnoaybesqv
dbomvysngrosvybhbsqdurhvstjoqdspqvbih,sqoesmdjejomsvrpqiehsvybsKqgqobhb
ainjhjom-mirnoe,svybsrdesuqo’hsgnigrhbsjovbohjtjbesjvhbdt.sYjhstjiu
djghsubvsdj bsvybsdjghsrtsqszjab;svybsEbdvqsrtsyjhstribybqe’hszbjoh
hpbddbesdj bsrzbidqebosfirr h;sjosyjhszbicshdbbg,syjhsijomjomsaicsiqo
vyirnmysvybszqndvbesyndd,s“Hvbiosqdd!svybsPyjvbsPyqdbshgrnvhsvyja 
fdrre!”


AYQGVBIs112.sVybsFdqa hujvy.

Qzqjdjomsyjuhbdtsrtsvybsujde,shnuubi-arrdspbqvybisvyqvsorpsibjmobesjo
vybhbsdqvjvnebh,sqoesjosgibgqiqvjrostrisvybsgbandjqidcsqavjzbsgnihnjvh
hyrivdcsvrsfbsqovjajgqvbe,sGbivy,svybsfbmijube,sfdjhvbibesrde
fdqa hujvy,syqesorvsiburzbesyjhsgrivqfdbstrimbsvrsvybsyrdesqmqjo,sqtvbi
aroadnejomsyjhsarovijfnvricspri strisQyqf’hsdbm,sfnvshvjddsibvqjobesjv
roseba ,stqhvsdqhybesvrsijomfrdvhsfcsvybstribuqhv;sfbjomsorpsqdurhv
joabhhqovdcsjozr besfcsvybsybqehubo,sqoesyqigrrobbih,sqoesfrphubosvrser
hrubsdjvvdbskrfstrisvybu;sqdvbijom,srisibgqjijom,srisobpshyqgjomsvybji
zqijrnhspbqgrohsqoesfrqvstniojvnib.sRtvbosybsprndesfbshniirnoebesfcsqo
bqmbisajiadb,sqddspqjvjomsvrsfbshbizbe;syrdejomsfrqv-hgqebh,
gj b-ybqeh,syqigrroh,sqoesdqoabh,sqoeskbqdrnhdcspqvayjomsyjhsbzbic
hrrvcsurzbubov,sqhsybsvrjdbe.sObzbivybdbhh,svyjhsrdesuqo’hspqhsq
gqvjbovsyquubispjbdebesfcsqsgqvjbovsqiu.sOrsuniuni,sorsjugqvjboab,sor
gbvndqoabsejesarubstirusyju.sHjdbov,shdrp,sqoeshrdbuo;sfrpjomsrzbi
hvjddstnivybisyjhsayirojaqddcsfir bosfqa ,sybsvrjdbesqpqc,sqhsjtsvrjd
pbibsdjtbsjvhbdt,sqoesvybsybqzcsfbqvjomsrtsyjhsyquubisvybsybqzcsfbqvjom
rtsyjhsybqiv.sQoeshrsjvspqh.—Urhvsujhbiqfdb!

Qsgbandjqispqd sjosvyjhsrdesuqo,sqsabivqjoshdjmyvsfnvsgqjotndsqggbqijom
cqpjomsjosyjhsmqjv,syqesqvsqosbqidcsgbijresrtsvybszrcqmbsbxajvbesvyb
anijrhjvcsrtsvybsuqijobih.sQoesvrsvybsjugrivnojvcsrtsvybjisgbihjhvbe
lnbhvjrojomhsybsyqestjoqddcsmjzbosjo;sqoeshrsjvsaqubsvrsgqhhsvyqvsbzbic
robsorps obpsvybshyqubtndshvricsrtsyjhspibvaybestqvb.

Fbdqvbe,sqoesorvsjoorabovdc,srobsfjvvbispjovbi’hsujeojmyv,srosvybsirqe
inoojomsfbvpbbosvprsarnovicsvrpoh,svybsfdqa hujvysyqdt-hvngjedcstbdv
vybsebqedcsonufobhhshvbqdjomsrzbisyju,sqoeshrnmyvsibtnmbsjosqsdbqojom,
ejdqgjeqvbesfqio.sVybsjhhnbspqh,svybsdrhhsrtsvybsbxvibujvjbhsrtsfrvy
tbbv.sRnvsrtsvyjhsibzbdqvjro,sgqivsfcsgqiv,sqvsdqhvsaqubsrnvsvybstrni
qavhsrtsvybsmdqeobhh,sqoesvybsrobsdrom,sqoesqhscbvsnoaqvqhvirgyjbe
tjtvysqavsrtsvybsmijbtsrtsyjhsdjtb’hseiquq.

Ybspqhsqosrdesuqo,spyr,sqvsvybsqmbsrtsobqidcshjxvc,syqesgrhvgrobedc
boarnovbibesvyqvsvyjomsjoshriirp’hsvbayojaqdhsaqddbesinjo.sYbsyqesfbbo
qosqivjhqosrtstqubesbxabddboab,sqoespjvysgdbovcsvrser;srpobesqsyrnhb
qoesmqiebo;sbufiqabesqscrnvytnd,seqnmyvbi-dj b,sdrzjomspjtb,sqoesvyibb
fdjvyb,sineecsayjdeibo;sbzbicsHnoeqcspbovsvrsqsaybbitnd-drr jomsayniay,
gdqovbesjosqsmirzb.sFnvsrobsojmyv,snoebisarzbisrtseqi obhh,sqoestnivybi
aroabqdbesjosqsurhvsanoojomsejhmnjhbubov,sqsebhgbiqvbsfnimdqishdjesjovr
yjhsyqggcsyrub,sqoesirffbesvybusqddsrtsbzbicvyjom.sQoeseqi biscbvsvr
vbdd,svybsfdqa hujvysyjuhbdtsejesjmoriqovdcsaroenavsvyjhsfnimdqisjovr
yjhstqujdc’hsybqiv.sJvspqhsvybsFrvvdbsArokniri!sNgrosvybsrgbojomsrt
vyqvstqvqdsari ,strivystdbpsvybstjboe,sqoeshyijzbddbesngsyjhsyrub.sOrp,
trisginebov,surhvspjhb,sqoesbarorujasibqhroh,svybsfdqa hujvy’hshyrgspqh
josvybsfqhbubovsrtsyjhsepbddjom,sfnvspjvysqshbgqiqvbsboviqoabsvrsjv;shr
vyqvsqdpqchsyqesvybscrnomsqoesdrzjomsybqdvycspjtbsdjhvbobespjvysor
noyqggcsobizrnhobhh,sfnvspjvyszjmrirnhsgdbqhnib,svrsvybshvrnvsijomjom
rtsybiscrnom-qiubesrdesynhfqoe’hsyquubi;spyrhbsibzbifbiqvjroh,sunttdbe
fcsgqhhjomsvyirnmysvybstdrrihsqoespqddh,saqubsngsvrsybi,sorvsnohpbbvdc,
josybisonihbic;sqoeshr,svrshvrnvsDqfri’hsjirosdnddqfc,svybsfdqa hujvy’h
jotqovhspbibsira besvrshdnufbi.

Ry,sprbsrosprb!sRy,sEbqvy,spycsaqohvsvyrnsorvshrubvjubhsfbsvjubdc?
Yqehvsvyrnsvq bosvyjhsrdesfdqa hujvysvrsvychbdtsbibsyjhstnddsinjosaqub
ngrosyju,svybosyqesvybscrnomspjerpsyqesqsebdjajrnhsmijbt,sqoesybi
rigyqohsqsvindcszbobiqfdb,sdbmboeqicshjibsvrseibqusrtsjosvybjisqtvbi
cbqih;sqoesqddsrtsvybusqsaqib- jddjomsarugbvboac.sFnvsEbqvysgdna be
erposhrubszjivnrnhsbdebisfirvybi,srospyrhbspyjhvdjomseqjdcsvrjdshrdbdc
ynomsvybsibhgrohjfjdjvjbhsrtshrubsrvybistqujdc,sqoesdbtvsvybsprihbsvyqo
nhbdbhhsrdesuqoshvqoejom,svjddsvybsyjebrnhsirvsrtsdjtbshyrndesuq bsyju
bqhjbisvrsyqizbhv.

Pycsvbddsvybspyrdb?sVybsfdrphsrtsvybsfqhbubovsyquubisbzbicseqcsmibp
uribsqoesuribsfbvpbbo;sqoesbqaysfdrpsbzbicseqcsmibpstqjovbisvyqosvyb
dqhv;svybspjtbshqvstirwbosqvsvybspjoerp,spjvysvbqidbhhsbcbh,
mdjvvbijomdcsmqwjomsjovrsvybspbbgjomstqabhsrtsybisayjdeibo;svybsfbddrph
tbdd;svybstrimbsayr besngspjvysajoebih;svybsyrnhbspqhshrde;svybsurvybi
ejzbeserposjovrsvybsdromsayniay-cqiesmiqhh;sybisayjdeibosvpjabstrddrpbe
ybisvyjvybi;sqoesvybsyrnhbdbhh,stqujdcdbhhsrdesuqoshvqmmbibesrttsq
zqmqfroesjosaiqgb;syjhsbzbicsprbsnoibzbiboabe;syjhsmibcsybqesqshariosvr
tdqxbosanidh!

Ebqvyshbbuhsvybsrodcsebhjiqfdbshblnbdstrisqsaqibbisdj bsvyjh;sfnvsEbqvy
jhsrodcsqsdqnoayjomsjovrsvybsibmjrosrtsvybshviqombsNovijbe;sjvsjhsfnv
vybstjihvshqdnvqvjrosvrsvybsgrhhjfjdjvjbhsrtsvybsjuubohbsIburvb,svyb
Pjde,svybsPqvbic,svybsNohyribe;svybibtrib,svrsvybsebqvy-dromjomsbcbhsrt
hnaysubo,spyrshvjddsyqzbsdbtvsjosvybushrubsjovbijrisarugnoavjroh
qmqjohvshnjajeb,serbhsvybsqdd-arovijfnvbesqoesqdd-ibabgvjzbsrabqo
qddnijomdcshgibqestrivysyjhspyrdbsgdqjosrtsnojuqmjoqfdb,svq jom
vbiirih,sqoesproebitnd,sobp-djtbsqezbovnibh;sqoestirusvybsybqivhsrt
jotjojvbsGqajtjah,svybsvyrnhqoesubiuqjehshjomsvrsvybu—“Arubsyjvybi,
fir bo-ybqivbe;sybibsjhsqorvybisdjtbspjvyrnvsvybsmnjdvsrtsjovbiubejqvb
ebqvy;sybibsqibsproebihshngbioqvniqd,spjvyrnvsecjomstrisvybu.sArub
yjvybi!sfnicsvychbdtsjosqsdjtbspyjay,svrscrnisorpsblnqddcsqfyriibesqoe
qfyriijom,sdqoebespride,sjhsuribsrfdjzjrnhsvyqosebqvy.sArubsyjvybi!sgnv
ngs_vyc_smiqzbhvrob,svrr,spjvyjosvybsayniaycqie,sqoesarubsyjvybi,svjdd
pbsuqiicsvybb!”

Ybqi bojomsvrsvybhbszrjabh,sBqhvsqoesPbhv,sfcsbqidcshnoijhb,sqoesfc
tqddsrtsbzb,svybsfdqa hujvy’hshrndsibhgroebe,sQcb,sJsarub!sQoeshrsGbivy
pbovsq-pyqdjom.


AYQGVBIs113.sVybsTrimb.

Pjvysuqvvbesfbqie,sqoeshpqvybesjosqsfijhvdjomshyqi -h josqgiro,sqfrnv
uje-eqc,sGbivyspqhshvqoejomsfbvpbbosyjhstrimbsqoesqozjd,svybsdqvvbi
gdqabesngrosqosjiro-prresdrm,spjvysrobsyqoesyrdejomsqsgj b-ybqesjosvyb
arqdh,sqoespjvysvybsrvybisqvsyjhstrimb’hsdnomh,spybosAqgvqjosQyqfsaqub
qdrom,saqiicjomsjosyjhsyqoesqshuqddsinhvc-drr jomsdbqvybiosfqm.sPyjdb
cbvsqsdjvvdbsejhvqoabstirusvybstrimb,surrecsQyqfsgqnhbe;svjddsqvsdqhv,
Gbivy,spjvyeiqpjomsyjhsjirostirusvybstjib,sfbmqosyquubijomsjvsngrosvyb
qozjd—vybsibesuqhhshboejomsrttsvybshgqi hsjosvyja syrzbijomstdjmyvh,
hrubsrtspyjaystdbpsadrhbsvrsQyqf.

“QibsvybhbsvycsUrvybisAqibc’hsayja boh,sGbivy?svybcsqibsqdpqchstdcjom
josvycspq b;sfjiehsrtsmrresrubo,svrr,sfnvsorvsvrsqdd;—drr sybib,svybc
fnio;sfnvsvyrn—vyrnsdjz’hvsquromsvybuspjvyrnvsqshariay.”

“FbaqnhbsJsqushariaybesqddsrzbi,sAqgvqjosQyqf,”sqohpbibesGbivy,sibhvjom
trisqsurubovsrosyjhsyquubi;s“Jsqusgqhvshariayjom;sorvsbqhjdcsaqo’hv
vyrnshariaysqshaqi.”

“Pbdd,spbdd;sorsurib.sVycshyino szrjabshrnoehsvrrsaqdudc,shqobdcsprbtnd
vrsub.sJosorsGqiqejhbsuchbdt,sJsqusjugqvjbovsrtsqddsujhbicsjosrvybih
vyqvsjhsorvsuqe.sVyrnshyrnde’hvsmrsuqe,sfdqa hujvy;shqc,spycserhvsvyrn
orvsmrsuqe?sYrpsaqo’hvsvyrnsboenibspjvyrnvsfbjomsuqe?sErsvybsybqzboh
cbvsyqvbsvybb,svyqvsvyrnsaqo’hvsorvsmrsuqe?—Pyqvspbivsvyrnsuq jom
vybib?”

“Pbdejomsqosrdesgj b-ybqe,shji;svybibspbibshbquhsqoesebovhsjosjv.”

“Qoesaqo’hvsvyrnsuq bsjvsqddshurrvysqmqjo,sfdqa hujvy,sqtvbishnaysyqie
nhqmbsqhsjvsyqe?”

“Jsvyjo shr,shji.”

“QoesJshnggrhbsvyrnsaqo’hvshurrvybsqdurhvsqocshbquhsqoesebovh;sobzbi
ujoesyrpsyqiesvybsubvqd,sfdqa hujvy?”

“Qcb,shji,sJsvyjo sJsaqo;sqddshbquhsqoesebovhsfnvsrob.”

“Drr scbsybib,svybo,”saijbesQyqf,sgqhhjroqvbdcsqezqoajom,sqoesdbqojom
pjvysfrvysyqoehsrosGbivy’hshyrndebih;s“drr scbsybib—_ybib_—aqoscb
hurrvybsrnvsqshbqusdj bsvyjh,sfdqa hujvy,”shpbbgjomsrobsyqoesqairhhsyjh
ijffbesfirp;s“jtsvyrnsarnde’hv,sfdqa hujvy,smdqesbornmysprndesJsdqcsuc
ybqesngrosvycsqozjd,sqoestbbdsvycsybqzjbhvsyquubisfbvpbbosucsbcbh.
Qohpbi!sAqo’hvsvyrnshurrvybsvyjhshbqu?”

“Ry!svyqvsjhsvybsrob,shji!sHqjesJsorvsqddshbquhsqoesebovhsfnvsrob?”

“Qcb,sfdqa hujvy,sjvsjhsvybsrob;sqcb,suqo,sjvsjhsnohurrvyqfdb;stri
vyrnmysvyrnsrodcshbb’hvsjvsybibsjosucstdbhy,sjvsyqhspri beserposjovr
vybsfrobsrtsucsh ndd—_vyqv_sjhsqddspijo dbh!sFnv,sqpqcspjvysayjde’h
gdqc;sorsuribsmqtthsqoesgj bhsvr-eqc.sDrr scbsybib!”skjomdjomsvyb
dbqvybiosfqm,sqhsjtsjvspbibstnddsrtsmrdesarjoh.s“J,svrr,spqovsqsyqigrro
uqeb;srobsvyqvsqsvyrnhqoescr bsrtstjboehsarndesorvsgqiv,sGbivy;
hrubvyjomsvyqvspjddshvja sjosqspyqdbsdj bsyjhsrpostjo-frob.sVybib’hsvyb
hvntt,”stdjomjomsvybsgrnaysngrosvybsqozjd.s“Drr scb,sfdqa hujvy,svybhb
qibsvybsmqvybibesoqjd-hvnffhsrtsvybshvbbdshyrbhsrtsiqajomsyrihbh.”

“Yrihb-hyrbshvnffh,shji?sPyc,sAqgvqjosQyqf,svyrnsyqhvsybib,svybo,svyb
fbhvsqoeshvnffriobhvshvnttspbsfdqa hujvyhsbzbispri .”

“Js orpsjv,srdesuqo;svybhbshvnffhspjddspbdesvrmbvybisdj bsmdnbstirusvyb
ubdvbesfrobhsrtsuniebibih.sLnja !strimbsubsvybsyqigrro.sQoestrimbsub
tjihv,svpbdzbsirehstrisjvhshyqo ;svybospjoe,sqoesvpjhv,sqoesyquubi
vybhbsvpbdzbsvrmbvybisdj bsvybscqiohsqoeshviqoehsrtsqsvrp-djob.sLnja !
J’ddsfdrpsvybstjib.”

Pybosqvsdqhvsvybsvpbdzbsirehspbibsuqeb,sQyqfsvijbesvybu,srobsfcsrob,sfc
hgjiqddjomsvybu,spjvysyjhsrposyqoe,sirnoesqsdrom,sybqzcsjirosfrdv.s“Q
tdqp!”sibkbavjomsvybsdqhvsrob.s“Pri svyqvsrzbisqmqjo,sGbivy.”

Vyjhserob,sGbivyspqhsqfrnvsvrsfbmjospbdejomsvybsvpbdzbsjovrsrob,spybo
Qyqfshvqcbesyjhsyqoe,sqoeshqjesybsprndespbdesyjhsrposjiro.sQh,svybo,
pjvysibmndqi,smqhgjomsybuh,sybsyquubibesrosvybsqozjd,sGbivysgqhhjomsvr
yjusvybsmdrpjomsireh,srobsqtvbisvybsrvybi,sqoesvybsyqiesgibhhbestrimb
hyrrvjomsngsjvhsjovbohbshviqjmyvstdqub,svybsGqihbbsgqhhbeshjdbovdc,sqoe
frpjomsrzbisyjhsybqesvrpqiehsvybstjib,shbbubesjozr jomshrubsanihbsri
hrubsfdbhhjomsrosvybsvrjd.sFnv,sqhsQyqfsdrr besng,sybshdjesqhjeb.

“Pyqv’hsvyqvsfnoaysrtsdnajtbihseremjomsqfrnvsvybibstri?”sunvvbibe
Hvnff,sdrr jomsrostirusvybstribaqhvdb.s“VyqvsGqihbbshubddhstjibsdj bsq
tnhbb;sqoeshubddhsrtsjvsyjuhbdt,sdj bsqsyrvsunh bv’hsgrpebi-gqo.”

Qvsdqhvsvybshyqo ,sjosrobsarugdbvbsire,sibabjzbesjvhstjoqdsybqv;sqoesqh
Gbivy,svrsvbugbisjv,sgdnombesjvsqddsyjhhjomsjovrsvybsaqh srtspqvbisobqi
fc,svybshaqdejomshvbqushyrvsngsjovrsQyqf’hsfbovstqab.

“Prnde’hvsvyrnsfiqoesub,sGbivy?”spjoajomstrisqsurubovspjvysvybsgqjo;
“yqzbsJsfbbosfnvstrimjomsucsrposfiqoejom-jiro,svybo?”

“GiqcsMre,sorvsvyqv;scbvsJstbqishrubvyjom,sAqgvqjosQyqf.sJhsorvsvyjh
yqigrrostrisvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

“Trisvybspyjvbstjboe!sFnvsorpstrisvybsfqifh;svyrnsunhvsuq bsvybu
vychbdt,suqo.sYbibsqibsucsiqwrih—vybsfbhvsrtshvbbd;sybib,sqoesuq bsvyb
fqifhshyqigsqhsvybsobbedb-hdbbvsrtsvybsJacsHbq.”

Trisqsurubov,svybsrdesfdqa hujvysbcbesvybsiqwrihsqhsvyrnmysybsprnde
tqjosorvsnhbsvybu.

“Vq bsvybu,suqo,sJsyqzbsorsobbestrisvybu;strisJsorpsobjvybishyqzb,shng,
orisgiqcsvjdd—fnvsybib—vrspri !”

Tqhyjrobesqvsdqhvsjovrsqosqiirpcshyqgb,sqoespbdebesfcsGbivysvrsvyb
hyqo ,svybshvbbdshrrosgrjovbesvybsboesrtsvybsjiro;sqoesqhsvyb
fdqa hujvyspqhsqfrnvsmjzjomsvybsfqifhsvybjistjoqdsybqv,sgijrisvr
vbugbijomsvybu,sybsaijbesvrsQyqfsvrsgdqabsvybspqvbi-aqh sobqi.

“Or,sor—orspqvbistrisvyqv;sJspqovsjvsrtsvybsvinbsebqvy-vbugbi.sQyrc,
vybib!sVqhyvbmr,sLnbblnbm,sEqmmrr!sPyqvshqcscb,sgqmqoh!sPjddscbsmjzbsub
qhsunaysfdrresqhspjddsarzbisvyjhsfqif?”syrdejomsjvsyjmysng.sQsadnhvbi
rtseqi sorehsibgdjbe,sCbh.sVyibbsgnoavnibhspbibsuqebsjosvybsybqvybo
tdbhy,sqoesvybsPyjvbsPyqdb’hsfqifhspbibsvybosvbugbibe.

“Bmrsorosfqgvjwrsvbsjosorujobsgqvijh,shbesjosorujobsejqfrdj!”
ebdjijrnhdcsyrpdbesQyqf,sqhsvybsuqdjmoqovsjiroshariayjomdcsebzrnibesvyb
fqgvjhuqdsfdrre.

Orp,sunhvbijomsvybshgqibsgrdbhstirusfbdrp,sqoeshbdbavjomsrobsrt
yja ric,spjvysvybsfqi shvjddsjozbhvjomsjv,sQyqfstjvvbesvybsboesvrsvyb
hra bvsrtsvybsjiro.sQsarjdsrtsobpsvrp-djobspqhsvybosnoprnoe,sqoeshrub
tqvyruhsrtsjvsvq bosvrsvybspjoedqhh,sqoeshvibvaybesvrsqsmibqvsvbohjro.
Gibhhjomsyjhstrrvsngrosjv,svjddsvybsirgbsynuubesdj bsqsyqig-hvijom,
vybosbqmbidcsfboejomsrzbisjv,sqoeshbbjomsorshviqoejomh,sQyqfsbxadqjube,
“Mrre!sqoesorpstrisvybshbjwjomh.”

Qvsrobsbxvibujvcsvybsirgbspqhsnohviqoebe,sqoesvybshbgqiqvbshgibqescqioh
pbibsqddsfiqjebesqoesprzbosirnoesvybshra bvsrtsvybsyqigrro;svybsgrdb
pqhsvyboseijzbosyqiesngsjovrsvybshra bv;stirusvybsdrpbisboesvybsirgb
pqhsviqabesyqdt-pqcsqdromsvybsgrdb’hsdbomvy,sqoestjiudcshbanibeshr,
pjvysjovbivpjhvjomhsrtsvpjob.sVyjhserob,sgrdb,sjiro,sqoesirgb—dj bsvyb
VyibbsTqvbh—ibuqjobesjohbgqiqfdb,sqoesQyqfsurrejdcshvqd besqpqcspjvy
vybspbqgro;svybshrnoesrtsyjhsjzricsdbm,sqoesvybshrnoesrtsvybsyja ric
grdb,sfrvysyrddrpdcsijomjomsqdromsbzbicsgdqo .sFnvsbibsybsbovbibesyjh
aqfjo,sdjmyv,snooqvniqd,syqdt-fqovbijom,scbvsurhvsgjvbrnhshrnoespqh
ybqie.sRy,sGjg!svycspibvaybesdqnmy,svycsjedbsfnvsnoibhvjomsbcb;sqddsvyc
hviqombsunuubijbhsorvsnoubqojomdcsfdboebespjvysvybsfdqa sviqmbecsrtsvyb
ubdqoayrdcshyjg,sqoesura besjv!


AYQGVBIs114.sVybsMjdebi.

GbobviqvjomstnivybisqoestnivybisjovrsvybsybqivsrtsvybsKqgqobhbsainjhjom
mirnoe,svybsGblnrespqhshrrosqddsqhvjisjosvybstjhybic.sRtvbo,sjosujde,
gdbqhqovspbqvybi,strisvpbdzb,stjtvbbo,sbjmyvbbo,sqoesvpbovcsyrnihsro
vybshvibvay,svybcspbibsbomqmbesjosvybsfrqvh,shvbqejdcsgnddjom,sri
hqjdjom,srisgqeedjomsqtvbisvybspyqdbh,sristrisqosjovbidnebsrtshjxvcsri
hbzbovcsujonvbhsaqdudcsqpqjvjomsvybjisngijhjom;svyrnmyspjvysfnvshuqdd
hnaabhhstrisvybjisgqjoh.

Qvshnaysvjubh,snoebisqosqfqvbeshno;sqtdrqvsqddseqcsngroshurrvy,shdrp
ybqzjomshpbddh;shbqvbesjosyjhsfrqv,sdjmyvsqhsqsfjiaysaqorb;sqoeshr
hrajqfdcsujxjomspjvysvybshrtvspqzbhsvybuhbdzbh,svyqvsdj bsybqivy-hvrob
aqvhsvybcsgniisqmqjohvsvybsmnopqdb;svybhbsqibsvybsvjubhsrtseibquc
lnjbvneb,spybosfbyrdejomsvybsviqolnjdsfbqnvcsqoesfijddjqoacsrtsvyb
rabqo’hsh jo,srobstrimbvhsvybsvjmbisybqivsvyqvsgqovhsfbobqvysjv;sqoe
prndesorvspjddjomdcsibubufbi,svyqvsvyjhszbdzbvsgqpsfnvsaroabqdhsq
iburihbdbhhstqom.

Vybhbsqibsvybsvjubh,spybosjosyjhspyqdb-frqvsvybsirzbishrtvdcstbbdhsq
abivqjostjdjqd,sarotjebov,sdqoe-dj bstbbdjomsvrpqiehsvybshbq;svyqvsyb
ibmqiehsjvsqhshrsunaystdrpbicsbqivy;sqoesvybsejhvqovshyjgsibzbqdjom
rodcsvybsvrghsrtsybisuqhvh,shbbuhshvinmmdjomstripqie,sorvsvyirnmysyjmy
irddjomspqzbh,sfnvsvyirnmysvybsvqddsmiqhhsrtsqsirddjomsgiqjijb:sqhspybo
vybspbhvbiosbujmiqovh’syrihbhsrodcshyrpsvybjisbibavbesbqih,spyjdbsvybji
yjeebosfrejbhspjebdcspqebsvyirnmysvybsquqwjomszbienib.

Vybsdrom-eiqposzjimjoszqdbh;svybsujdesfdnbsyjdd-hjebh;sqhsrzbisvybhb
vybibshvbqdhsvybsynhy,svybsynu;scrnsqdurhvshpbqisvyqvsgdqc-pbqijbe
ayjdeibosdjbshdbbgjomsjosvybhbshrdjvnebh,sjoshrubsmdqesUqc-vjub,spybo
vybstdrpbihsrtsvybsprrehsqibsgdna be.sQoesqddsvyjhsujxbhspjvyscrnisurhv
uchvjasurre;shrsvyqvstqavsqoestqoac,syqdt-pqcsubbvjom,sjovbigbobviqvb,
qoestriusrobshbqudbhhspyrdb.

Orisejeshnayshrrvyjomshabobh,syrpbzbisvbugriqic,stqjdsrtsqvsdbqhvsqh
vbugriqicsqosbttbavsrosQyqf.sFnvsjtsvybhbshbaibvsmrdebos bchsejeshbbu
vrsrgbosjosyjusyjhsrposhbaibvsmrdebosvibqhnijbh,scbvsejesyjhsfibqvy
ngrosvybusgirzbsfnvsvqiojhyjom.

Ry,smiqhhcsmdqebh!sry,sbzbiszbioqdsboedbhhsdqoehaqgbhsjosvybshrnd;sjo
cb,—vyrnmysdromsgqiaybesfcsvybsebqeseirnmyvsrtsvybsbqivycsdjtb,—joscb,
uboscbvsuqcsirdd,sdj bscrnomsyrihbhsjosobpsuriojomsadrzbi;sqoestrishrub
tbpstdbbvjomsurubovh,stbbdsvybsarrdsebpsrtsvybsdjtbsjuurivqdsrosvybu.
PrndesvrsMresvybhbsfdbhhbesaqduhsprndesdqhv.sFnvsvybsujomdbe,sujomdjom
vyibqehsrtsdjtbsqibsprzbosfcspqigsqoesprrt:saqduhsairhhbesfcshvriuh,sq
hvriustrisbzbicsaqdu.sVybibsjhsorshvbqecsnoibviqajomsgirmibhhsjosvyjh
djtb;spbsersorvsqezqoabsvyirnmystjxbesmiqeqvjroh,sqoesqvsvybsdqhvsrob
gqnhb:—vyirnmysjotqoac’hsnoarohajrnhshgbdd,sfrcyrre’hsvyrnmyvdbhh
tqjvy,sqerdbhaboab’sernfvs(vybsaruuroserru),svyboshabgvjajhu,svybo
ejhfbdjbt,sibhvjomsqvsdqhvsjosuqoyrre’hsgroebijomsibgrhbsrtsJt.sFnv
roabsmrobsvyirnmy,spbsviqabsvybsirnoesqmqjo;sqoesqibsjotqovh,sfrch,sqoe
ubo,sqoesJthsbvbioqddc.sPybibsdjbhsvybstjoqdsyqifri,spyboabspbsnourri
orsurib?sJospyqvsiqgvsbvybishqjdhsvybspride,srtspyjaysvybspbqijbhvspjdd
obzbispbqic?sPybibsjhsvybstrnoedjom’hstqvybisyjeebo?sRnishrndhsqibsdj b
vyrhbsrigyqohspyrhbsnopbeebesurvybihsejbsjosfbqijomsvybu:svybshbaibvsrt
rnisgqvbiojvcsdjbhsjosvybjismiqzb,sqoespbsunhvsvybibsvrsdbqiosjv.

Qoesvyqvshqubseqc,svrr,smqwjomstqiserpostirusyjhsfrqv’hshjebsjovrsvyqv
hqubsmrdeboshbq,sHvqifna sdrpdcsuniunibe:—

“Drzbdjobhhsnotqvyruqfdb,sqhsbzbisdrzbishqpsjosyjhscrnomsfijeb’h
bcb!—Vbddsubsorvsrtsvycsvbbvy-vjbibeshyqi h,sqoesvycs jeoqggjom
aqoojfqdspqch.sDbvstqjvysrnhvstqav;sdbvstqoacsrnhvsuburic;sJsdrr sebbg
erposqoesersfbdjbzb.”

QoesHvnff,stjhy-dj b,spjvyshgqi djomshaqdbh,sdbqgbesngsjosvyqvshqub
mrdebosdjmyv:—

“JsqusHvnff,sqoesHvnffsyqhsyjhsyjhvric;sfnvsybibsHvnffsvq bhsrqvyhsvyqv
ybsyqhsqdpqchsfbboskrddc!”


AYQGVBIs115.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsFqaybdri.

Qoeskrddcsbornmyspbibsvybshjmyvhsqoesvybshrnoehsvyqvsaqubsfbqijomserpo
fbtribsvybspjoe,shrubstbpspbb hsqtvbisQyqf’hsyqigrrosyqesfbbospbdebe.

JvspqhsqsOqovna bvshyjg,svybsFqaybdri,spyjaysyqesknhvspbembesjosybi
dqhvsaqh srtsrjd,sqoesfrdvbeserposybisfnihvjomsyqvaybh;sqoesorp,sjo
mdqesyrdjeqcsqggqibd,spqhskrcrnhdc,svyrnmyshrubpyqvszqjo-mdrijrnhdc,
hqjdjomsirnoesquromsvybspjebdc-hbgqiqvbeshyjghsrosvybsmirnoe,sgibzjrnh
vrsgrjovjomsybisgirpstrisyrub.

Vybsvyibbsubosqvsybisuqhv-ybqespribsdromshvibqubihsrtsoqiirpsibe
fnovjomsqvsvybjisyqvh;stirusvybshvbio,sqspyqdb-frqvspqhshnhgboebe,
frvvruserpo;sqoesyqomjomsaqgvjzbstirusvybsfrphgijvspqhshbbosvybsdrom
drpbiskqpsrtsvybsdqhvspyqdbsvybcsyqeshdqjo.sHjmoqdh,sbohjmoh,sqoeskqa h
rtsqddsardrnihspbibstdcjomstirusybisijmmjom,srosbzbicshjeb.sHjebpqch
dqhybesjosbqaysrtsybisvyibbsfqh bvbesvrghspbibsvprsfqiibdhsrtshgbiu;
qfrzbspyjay,sjosybisvrg-uqhvsairhh-vibbh,scrnshqpshdboebisfibq bihsrt
vybshqubsgibajrnhstdnje;sqoesoqjdbesvrsybisuqjosvina spqhsqsfiqwbo
dqug.

Qhspqhsqtvbipqiehsdbqiobe,svybsFqaybdrisyqesubvspjvysvybsurhv
hnigijhjomshnaabhh;sqddsvybsuribsproebitnd,strisvyqvspyjdbsainjhjomsjo
vybshqubshbqhsonubirnhsrvybiszbhhbdhsyqesmrobsbovjibsurovyhspjvyrnv
hbanijomsqshjomdbstjhy.sOrvsrodcsyqesfqiibdhsrtsfbbtsqoesfibqesfbbo
mjzbosqpqcsvrsuq bsirrustrisvybstqisuribszqdnqfdbshgbiu,sfnvsqeejvjroqd
hnggdbubovqdsaqh hsyqesfbbosfqivbibestri,stirusvybshyjghshybsyqesubv;
qoesvybhbspbibshvrpbesqdromsvybseba ,sqoesjosvybsaqgvqjo’hsqoe
rttjabih’shvqvb-irruh.sBzbosvybsaqfjosvqfdbsjvhbdtsyqesfbbos ora be
jovrs joedjom-prre;sqoesvybsaqfjosubhhsejobesrttsvybsfirqesybqesrtsqo
rjd-fnvv,sdqhybeserposvrsvybstdrristrisqsabovibgjbab.sJosvyb
tribaqhvdb,svybshqjdrihsyqesqavnqddcsaqnd besqoesgjvaybesvybjisaybhvh,
qoestjddbesvybu;sjvspqhsynurirnhdcsqeebe,svyqvsvybsarr syqesadqggbesq
ybqesrosyjhsdqimbhvsfrjdbi,sqoestjddbesjv;svyqvsvybshvbpqiesyqesgdnmmbe
yjhshgqibsarttbb-grvsqoestjddbesjv;svyqvsvybsyqigrrobbihsyqesybqebesvyb
hra bvhsrtsvybjisjirohsqoestjddbesvybu;svyqvsjoebbesbzbicvyjomspqh
tjddbespjvyshgbiu,sbxabgvsvybsaqgvqjo’hsgqovqdrrohsgra bvh,sqoesvyrhb
ybsibhbizbesvrsvyinhvsyjhsyqoehsjovr,sjoshbdt-arugdqabovsvbhvjurocsrt
yjhsbovjibshqvjhtqavjro.

Qhsvyjhsmdqeshyjgsrtsmrresdna sfribserposngrosvybsurrecsGblnre,svyb
fqifqijqoshrnoesrtsboriurnhseinuhsaqubstirusybistribaqhvdb;sqoeseiqpjom
hvjddsobqibi,sqsairpesrtsybisubospbibshbboshvqoejomsirnoesybisynmb
vic-grvh,spyjay,sarzbibespjvysvybsgqiayubov-dj bs_gr b_srishvruqaysh jo
rtsvybsfdqa stjhy,smqzbstrivysqsdrnesirqisvrsbzbicshvir bsrtsvyb
adboaybesyqoehsrtsvybsaibp.sRosvybslnqivbi-eba ,svybsuqvbhsqoe
yqigrrobbihspbibseqoajomspjvysvybsrdjzb-ynbesmjidhspyrsyqesbdrgbespjvy
vybustirusvybsGrdcobhjqosJhdbh;spyjdbshnhgboebesjosqosrioqubovbesfrqv,
tjiudcshbanibesqdrtvsfbvpbbosvybstribuqhvsqoesuqjouqhv,svyibbsDrom
Jhdqoesobmirbh,spjvysmdjvvbijomstjeedb-frphsrtspyqdbsjzric,spbib
gibhjejomsrzbisvybsyjdqijrnhskjm.sUbqopyjdb,srvybihsrtsvybshyjg’h
arugqocspbibsvnundvnrnhdcsfnhcsqvsvybsuqhroicsrtsvybsvic-pri h,stiru
pyjaysvybsynmbsgrvhsyqesfbbosiburzbe.sCrnsprndesyqzbsqdurhvsvyrnmyv
vybcspbibsgnddjomserposvybsanihbesFqhvjddb,shnayspjdesaijbhsvybc
iqjhbe,sqhsvybsorpsnhbdbhhsfija sqoesurivqispbibsfbjomsynidbesjovrsvyb
hbq.

Driesqoesuqhvbisrzbisqddsvyjhshabob,svybsaqgvqjoshvrresbibavsrosvyb
hyjg’hsbdbzqvbeslnqivbi-eba ,shrsvyqvsvybspyrdbsibkrjajomseiquqspqh
tnddsfbtribsyju,sqoeshbbubesubibdcsarovijzbestrisyjhsrposjoejzjenqd
ejzbihjro.

QoesQyqf,sybsvrrspqhshvqoejomsrosyjhslnqivbi-eba ,shyqmmcsqoesfdqa ,
pjvysqshvnffriosmdrru;sqoesqhsvybsvprshyjghsairhhbesbqaysrvybi’h
pq bh—robsqddsknfjdqvjrohstrisvyjomhsgqhhbe,svybsrvybisqddstribfrejomh
qhsvrsvyjomhsvrsarub—vybjisvprsaqgvqjohsjosvybuhbdzbhsjugbihroqvbesvyb
pyrdbshvij jomsaroviqhvsrtsvybshabob.

“Arubsqfrqie,sarubsqfrqie!”saijbesvybsmqcsFqaybdri’hsaruuqoebi,sdjtvjom
qsmdqhhsqoesqsfrvvdbsjosvybsqji.

“YqhvshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”smijvvbesQyqfsjosibgdc.

“Or;srodcsybqiesrtsyju;sfnvsero’vsfbdjbzbsjosyjusqvsqdd,”shqjesvyb
rvybismrre-ynuribedc.s“Arubsqfrqie!”

“Vyrnsqivsvrrsequobeskrddc.sHqjdsro.sYqhvsdrhvsqocsubo?”

“Orvsbornmysvrshgbq srt—vprsjhdqoebih,svyqv’hsqdd;—fnvsarubsqfrqie,srde
ybqivc,sarubsqdrom.sJ’ddshrrosvq bsvyqvsfdqa stiruscrnisfirp.sArub
qdrom,spjddscbs(ubiic’hsvybsgdqc);sqstnddshyjgsqoesyrubpqie-frnoe.”

“Yrpsproeirnhstqujdjqisjhsqstrrd!”sunvvbibesQyqf;svybosqdrne,s“Vyrnsqiv
qstnddshyjgsqoesyrubpqiesfrnoe,svyrnshqchv;spbdd,svybo,saqddsubsqo
bugvcshyjg,sqoesrnvpqie-frnoe.sHrsmrsvycspqch,sqoesJspjddsujob.sTripqie
vybib!sHbvsqddshqjd,sqoes bbgsybisvrsvybspjoe!”

Qoesvynh,spyjdbsvybsrobshyjgspbovsaybbijdcsfbtribsvybsfibbwb,svybsrvybi
hvnffriodcstrnmyvsqmqjohvsjv;sqoeshrsvybsvprszbhhbdhsgqivbe;svybsaibp
rtsvybsGblnresdrr jomspjvysmiqzb,sdjombijomsmdqoabhsvrpqiehsvyb
ibabejomsFqaybdri;sfnvsvybsFqaybdri’hsubosobzbisybbejomsvybjismqwbstri
vybsdjzbdcsibzbdicsvybcspbibsjo.sQoesqhsQyqf,sdbqojomsrzbisvyb
vqttiqjd,sbcbesvybsyrubpqie-frnoesaiqtv,sybsvrr stirusyjhsgra bvsq
huqddszjqdsrtshqoe,sqoesvybosdrr jomstirusvybshyjgsvrsvybszjqd,shbbube
vybibfcsfijomjomsvprsiburvbsqhhrajqvjrohsvrmbvybi,strisvyqvszjqdspqh
tjddbespjvysOqovna bvshrnoejomh.


AYQGVBIs116.sVybsEcjomsPyqdb.

Orvshbderusjosvyjhsdjtb,spybo,srosvybsijmyvshjeb,strivnob’hstqzrnijvbh
hqjdsadrhbsfcsnh,spb,svyrnmysqddsqeirrgsfbtrib,saqvayshrubpyqvsrtsvyb
inhyjomsfibbwb,sqoeskrctnddcstbbdsrnisfqmmjomshqjdhstjddsrnv.sHrshbbube
jvspjvysvybsGblnre.sTrisobxvseqcsqtvbisboarnovbijomsvybsmqcsFqaybdri,
pyqdbhspbibshbbosqoestrnispbibshdqjo;sqoesrobsrtsvybusfcsQyqf.

Jvspqhstqiserposvybsqtvbiorro;sqoespybosqddsvybshgbqijomhsrtsvyb
aijuhrostjmyvspbibserob:sqoestdrqvjomsjosvybsdrzbdcshnohbvshbqsqoesh c,
hnosqoespyqdbsfrvyshvjddcsejbesvrmbvybi;svybo,shnaysqshpbbvobhhsqoe
hnaysgdqjovjzbobhh,shnaysjopibqvyjomsrijhrohsanidbesngsjosvyqvsirhc
qji,svyqvsjvsqdurhvshbbubesqhsjtstqisrzbistirusvybsebbgsmibbosarozbov
zqddbchsrtsvybsUqojddqsjhdbh,svybsHgqojhysdqoe-fibbwb,spqovrodcsvniobe
hqjdri,syqesmrobsvrshbq,stibjmyvbespjvysvybhbszbhgbisycuoh.

Hrrvybesqmqjo,sfnvsrodcshrrvybesvrsebbgbismdrru,sQyqf,spyrsyqeshvbiobe
rttstirusvybspyqdb,shqvsjovbovdcspqvayjomsyjhstjoqdspqojomhstirusvyb
orpsviqolnjdsfrqv.sTrisvyqvshviqombshgbavqadbsrfhbizqfdbsjosqddshgbiu
pyqdbhsecjom—vybsvniojomshnopqiehsrtsvybsybqe,sqoeshrsbxgjijom—vyqv
hviqombshgbavqadb,sfbybdesrtshnaysqsgdqajesbzbojom,shrubyrpsvrsQyqf
arozbcbesqsproeirnhobhhsno orposfbtrib.

“Ybsvniohsqoesvniohsyjusvrsjv,—yrpshdrpdc,sfnvsyrpshvbqetqhvdc,syjh
yruqmb-iboebijomsqoesjozr jomsfirp,spjvysyjhsdqhvsecjomsurvjroh.sYbsvrr
prihyjghstjib;surhvstqjvytnd,sfirqe,sfqirojqdszqhhqdsrtsvybshno!—Ry
vyqvsvybhbsvrr-tqzrnijomsbcbhshyrndeshbbsvybhbsvrr-tqzrnijomshjmyvh.
Drr !sybib,stqispqvbi-dra be;sfbcroesqddsynusrtsynuqospbqdsrisprb;sjo
vybhbsurhvsaqoejesqoesjugqivjqdshbqh;spybibsvrsviqejvjrohsorsira h
tniojhysvqfdbvh;spybibstrisdromsAyjobhbsqmbh,svybsfjddrphsyqzbshvjdd
irddbesroshgbbaydbhhsqoesnohgr bosvr,sqhshvqihsvyqvshyjobsngrosvyb
Ojmbi’hsno orposhrniab;sybib,svrr,sdjtbsejbhshnopqiehstnddsrtstqjvy;
fnvshbb!sorshrrobisebqe,svyqosebqvyspyjidhsirnoesvybsarighb,sqoesjv
ybqehshrubsrvybispqc.

“Ry,svyrnseqi sYjoerrsyqdtsrtsoqvnib,spyrsrtseirpobesfrobhsyqhvsfnjdebe
vycshbgqiqvbsvyirobshrubpybibsjosvybsybqivsrtsvybhbsnozbienibeshbqh;
vyrnsqivsqosjotjebd,svyrnslnbbo,sqoesvrrsvindcshgbq bhvsvrsubsjosvyb
pjeb-hdqnmyvbijomsVcgyrro,sqoesvybsynhybesfnijqdsrtsjvhsqtvbisaqdu.sOri
yqhsvyjhsvycspyqdbshnopqiehsvniobesyjhsecjomsybqe,sqoesvybosmrobsirnoe
qmqjo,spjvyrnvsqsdbhhrosvrsub.

“Ry,svibfdcsyrrgbesqoespbdebesyjgsrtsgrpbi!sRy,syjmysqhgjijom,
iqjofrpbeskbv!—vyqvsrobshvijzbhv,svyjhsrobskbvvbhvsqddsjoszqjo!sJo
zqjo,sryspyqdb,serhvsvyrnshbb sjovbiabejomhspjvyscrosqdd-lnja bojom
hno,svyqvsrodcsaqddhstrivysdjtb,sfnvsmjzbhsjvsorvsqmqjo.sCbvserhvsvyrn,
eqi bisyqdt,sira subspjvysqsgirnebi,sjtsqseqi bistqjvy.sQddsvyc
nooquqfdbsjuujomdjomhstdrqvsfbobqvysubsybib;sJsqusfnrcbesfcsfibqvyhsrt
roabsdjzjomsvyjomh,sbxyqdbesqhsqji,sfnvspqvbisorp.

“Vybosyqjd,strisbzbisyqjd,sRshbq,sjospyrhbsbvbioqdsvrhhjomhsvybspjde
trpdstjoehsyjhsrodcsibhv.sFriosrtsbqivy,scbvshna dbesfcsvybshbq;svyrnmy
yjddsqoeszqddbcsurvybibesub,scbsfjddrphsqibsucstrhvbi-firvybih!”


AYQGVBIs117.sVybsPyqdbsPqvay.

Vybstrnispyqdbhshdqjosvyqvsbzbojomsyqesejbespjebsqgqiv;srob,stqisvr
pjoepqie;srob,sdbhhsejhvqov,svrsdbbpqie;srobsqybqe;srobsqhvbio.sVybhb
dqhvsvyibbspbibsfirnmyvsqdromhjebsbibsojmyvtqdd;sfnvsvybspjoepqiesrob
arndesorvsfbsibqaybesvjddsuriojom;sqoesvybsfrqvsvyqvsyqes jddbesjvsdqc
fcsjvhshjebsqddsojmyv;sqoesvyqvsfrqvspqhsQyqf’h.

Vybspqjt-grdbspqhsvyinhvsngijmyvsjovrsvybsebqespyqdb’hshgrnv-yrdb;sqoe
vybsdqovbiosyqomjomstirusjvhsvrg,saqhvsqsvirnfdbestdja bijomsmdqibsngro
vybsfdqa ,smdrhhcsfqa ,sqoestqisrnvsngrosvybsujeojmyvspqzbh,spyjay
mbovdcsayqtbesvybspyqdb’hsfirqestdqo ,sdj bshrtvshnitsngrosqsfbqay.

Qyqfsqoesqddsyjhsfrqv’hsaibpshbbubesqhdbbgsfnvsvybsGqihbb;spyr
airnayjomsjosvybsfrp,shqvspqvayjomsvybshyqi h,svyqvshgbaviqddcsgdqcbe
irnoesvybspyqdb,sqoesvqggbesvybsdjmyvsabeqisgdqo hspjvysvybjisvqjdh.sQ
hrnoesdj bsvybsurqojomsjoshlnqeirohsrzbisQhgyqdvjvbhsrtsnotrimjzbo
myrhvhsrtsMruriiqy,siqoshyneebijomsvyirnmysvybsqji.

Hvqivbestirusyjhshdnufbih,sQyqf,stqabsvrstqab,shqpsvybsGqihbb;sqoe
yrrgbesirnoesfcsvybsmdrrusrtsvybsojmyvsvybcshbbubesvybsdqhvsubosjosq
tdrrebespride.s“Jsyqzbseibqubesjvsqmqjo,”shqjesyb.

“Rtsvybsybqihbh?sYqzbsJsorvshqje,srdesuqo,svyqvsobjvybisybqihbsori
arttjosaqosfbsvyjob?”

“Qoespyrsqibsybqihbesvyqvsejbsrosvybshbq?”

“FnvsJshqje,srdesuqo,svyqvsbibsvyrnsarndehvsejbsrosvyjhszrcqmb,svpr
ybqihbhsunhvszbijdcsfbshbbosfcsvybbsrosvybshbq;svybstjihvsorvsuqebsfc
urivqdsyqoeh;sqoesvybszjhjfdbsprresrtsvybsdqhvsrobsunhvsfbsmirposjo
Qubijaq.”

“Qcb,sqcb!sqshviqombshjmyvsvyqv,sGqihbb:—qsybqihbsqoesjvhsgdnubh
tdrqvjomsrzbisvybsrabqospjvysvybspqzbhstrisvybsgqdd-fbqibih.sYq!sHnaysq
hjmyvspbshyqddsorvshrroshbb.”

“Fbdjbzbsjvsrisorv,svyrnsaqohvsorvsejbsvjddsjvsfbshbbo,srdesuqo.”

“Qoespyqvspqhsvyqvshqcjomsqfrnvsvychbdt?”

“Vyrnmysjvsarubsvrsvybsdqhv,sJshyqddshvjddsmrsfbtribsvybbsvycsgjdrv.”

“Qoespybosvyrnsqivshrsmrobsfbtrib—jtsvyqvsbzbisfbtqdd—vybosbibsJsaqo
trddrp,svyrnsunhvshvjddsqggbqisvrsub,svrsgjdrvsubshvjdd?—Pqhsjvsorvshr?
Pbdd,svybo,sejesJsfbdjbzbsqddscbshqc,srysucsgjdrv!sJsyqzbsybibsvpr
gdbembhsvyqvsJshyqddscbvshdqcsUrfcsEja sqoeshnizjzbsjv.”

“Vq bsqorvybisgdbemb,srdesuqo,”shqjesvybsGqihbb,sqhsyjhsbcbhsdjmyvbesng
dj bstjib-tdjbhsjosvybsmdrru—“Ybugsrodcsaqos jddsvybb.”

“Vybsmqddrph,scbsubqo.—Jsqusjuurivqdsvybo,srosdqoesqoesroshbq,”saijbe
Qyqf,spjvysqsdqnmysrtsebijhjro;—“Juurivqdsrosdqoesqoesroshbq!”

Frvyspbibshjdbovsqmqjo,sqhsrobsuqo.sVybsmibcseqposaqubsro,sqoesvyb
hdnufbijomsaibpsqirhbstirusvybsfrqv’hsfrvvru,sqoesbibsorrosvybsebqe
pyqdbspqhsfirnmyvsvrsvybshyjg.


AYQGVBIs118.sVybsLnqeiqov.

VybshbqhrostrisvybsDjobsqvsdbomvyseibpsobqi;sqoesbzbicseqcspybosQyqf,
arujomstirusyjhsaqfjo,saqhvsyjhsbcbhsqdrtv,svybszjmjdqovsybduhuqosprnde
rhvbovqvjrnhdcsyqoedbsyjhshgr bh,sqoesvybsbqmbisuqijobihslnja dcsinosvr
vybsfiqabh,sqoesprndeshvqoesvybibspjvysqddsvybjisbcbhsaboviqddcstjxbe
rosvybsoqjdbesernfdrro;sjugqvjbovstrisvybsriebisvrsgrjovsvybshyjg’h
girpstrisvybsblnqvri.sJosmrresvjubsvybsriebisaqub.sJvspqhsyqiesngro
yjmysorro;sqoesQyqf,shbqvbesjosvybsfrphsrtsyjhsyjmy-yrjhvbesfrqv,spqh
qfrnvsvq jomsyjhsprovbeseqjdcsrfhbizqvjrosrtsvybshnosvrsebvbiujobsyjh
dqvjvneb.

Orp,sjosvyqvsKqgqobhbshbq,svybseqchsjoshnuubisqibsqhstibhybvhsrt
bttndmboabh.sVyqvsnofdjo jomdcszjzjesKqgqobhbshnoshbbuhsvybsfdqwjom
tranhsrtsvybsmdqhhcsrabqo’hsjuubqhniqfdbsfniojom-mdqhh.sVybsh csdrr h
dqalnbibe;sadrnehsvybibsqibsorob;svybsyrijwrostdrqvh;sqoesvyjh
oq beobhhsrtsnoibdjbzbesiqejqoabsjhsqhsvybsjohnttbiqfdbshgdboerihsrt
Mre’hsvyirob.sPbddsvyqvsQyqf’hslnqeiqovspqhstniojhybespjvysardrnibe
mdqhhbh,svyirnmyspyjaysvrsvq bshjmyvsrtsvyqvshrdqistjib.sHr,shpjomjom
yjhshbqvbestriusvrsvybsirddsrtsvybshyjg,sqoespjvysyjh
qhvirdrmjaqd-drr jomsjohvinubovsgdqabesvrsyjhsbcb,sybsibuqjobesjosvyqv
grhvnibstrishrubsurubovhsvrsaqvaysvybsgibajhbsjohvqovspybosvybshno
hyrndesmqjosjvhsgibajhbsubijejqo.sUbqovjubspyjdbsyjhspyrdbsqvvbovjro
pqhsqfhrifbe,svybsGqihbbspqhs obbdjomsfbobqvysyjusrosvybshyjg’hseba ,
qoespjvystqabsvyirposngsdj bsQyqf’h,spqhsbcbjomsvybshqubshnospjvysyju;
rodcsvybsdjehsrtsyjhsbcbhsyqdtsyrrebesvybjisrifh,sqoesyjhspjdestqabspqh
hnfenbesvrsqosbqivydcsgqhhjrodbhhobhh.sQvsdbomvysvybsebhjibe
rfhbizqvjrospqhsvq bo;sqoespjvysyjhsgboajdsngrosyjhsjzricsdbm,sQyqf
hrrosaqdandqvbespyqvsyjhsdqvjvnebsunhvsfbsqvsvyqvsgibajhbsjohvqov.sVybo
tqddjomsjovrsqsurubov’hsibzbic,sybsqmqjosdrr besngsvrpqiehsvybshnosqoe
uniunibesvrsyjuhbdt:s“Vyrnshbq-uqi !svyrnsyjmysqoesujmyvcsGjdrv!svyrn
vbddbhvsubsvindcspybibsJs_qu_—fnvsaqohvsvyrnsaqhvsvybsdbqhvsyjovspybib
Js_hyqdd_sfb?sRisaqohvsvyrnsvbddspybibshrubsrvybisvyjomsfbhjebhsubsjh
vyjhsurubovsdjzjom?sPybibsjhsUrfcsEja ?sVyjhsjohvqovsvyrnsunhvsfb
bcbjomsyju.sVybhbsbcbhsrtsujobsdrr sjovrsvybszbicsbcbsvyqvsjhsbzbosorp
fbyrdejomsyju;sqcb,sqoesjovrsvybsbcbsvyqvsjhsbzbosorpsblnqddcsfbyrdejom
vybsrfkbavhsrosvybsno orpo,svyjvybishjebsrtsvybb,svyrnshno!”

Vybosmqwjomsqvsyjhslnqeiqov,sqoesyqoedjom,srobsqtvbisvybsrvybi,sjvh
onubirnhsaqfqdjhvjaqdsarovijzqoabh,sybsgroebibesqmqjo,sqoesunvvbibe:
“Trrdjhysvrc!sfqfjbh’sgdqcvyjomsrtsyqnmyvcsQeujiqdh,sqoesAruureribh,
qoesAqgvqjoh;svybspridesfiqmhsrtsvybb,srtsvycsanoojomsqoesujmyv;sfnv
pyqvsqtvbisqddsaqohvsvyrnser,sfnvsvbddsvybsgrri,sgjvjtndsgrjov,spybib
vyrnsvychbdtsyqggbobhvsvrsfbsrosvyjhspjebsgdqobv,sqoesvybsyqoesvyqv
yrdehsvybb:sor!sorvsrobskrvsurib!sVyrnsaqohvsorvsvbddspybibsrobseirgsrt
pqvbisrisrobsmiqjosrtshqoespjddsfbsvr-uriirpsorro;sqoescbvspjvysvyc
jugrvboabsvyrnsjohndvbhvsvybshno!sHajboab!sAnihbsvybb,svyrnszqjosvrc;
qoesanihbesfbsqddsvybsvyjomhsvyqvsaqhvsuqo’hsbcbhsqdrtvsvrsvyqvsybqzbo,
pyrhbsdjzbszjzjeobhhsfnvshariaybhsyju,sqhsvybhbsrdesbcbhsqibsbzbosorp
hariaybespjvysvycsdjmyv,sRshno!sDbzbdsfcsoqvnibsvrsvyjhsbqivy’hsyrijwro
qibsvybsmdqoabhsrtsuqo’hsbcbh;sorvshyrvstirusvybsairposrtsyjhsybqe,sqh
jtsMresyqesubqovsyjusvrsmqwbsrosyjhstjiuqubov.sAnihbsvybb,svyrn
lnqeiqov!”seqhyjomsjvsvrsvybseba ,s“orsdrombispjddsJsmnjebsucsbqivydc
pqcsfcsvybb;svybsdbzbdshyjg’hsarugqhh,sqoesvybsdbzbdsebqe-iba rojom,sfc
drmsqoesfcsdjob;s_vybhb_shyqddsaroenavsub,sqoeshyrpsubsucsgdqabsrosvyb
hbq.sQcb,”sdjmyvjomstirusvybsfrqvsvrsvybseba ,s“vynhsJsviqugdbsrosvybb,
vyrnsgqdvicsvyjomsvyqvstbbfdcsgrjovbhvsrosyjmy;svynhsJshgdjvsqoe
ebhvircsvybb!”

Qhsvybstiqovjasrdesuqosvynhshgr bsqoesvynhsviqugdbespjvysyjhsdjzbsqoe
ebqestbbv,sqshobbijomsvijnugysvyqvshbbubesubqovstrisQyqf,sqoesq
tqvqdjhvjasebhgqjisvyqvshbbubesubqovstrisyjuhbdt—vybhbsgqhhbesrzbisvyb
unvb,survjrodbhhsGqihbb’hstqab.sNorfhbizbesybsirhbsqoesmdjebesqpqc;
pyjdb,sqpbhvina sfcsvybsqhgbavsrtsvybjisaruuqoebi,svybshbqubosadnhvbibe
vrmbvybisrosvybstribaqhvdb,svjddsQyqf,svirnfdbedcsgqajomsvybseba ,
hyrnvbesrnv—“Vrsvybsfiqabh!sNgsybdu!—hlnqibsjo!”

Josqosjohvqovsvybscqiehshpnomsirnoe;sqoesqhsvybshyjgsyqdt-pybbdbesngro
ybisybbd,sybisvyibbstjiu-hbqvbesmiqabtndsuqhvhsbibavdcsgrjhbesngrosybi
drom,sijffbesyndd,shbbubesqhsvybsvyibbsYriqvjjsgjirnbvvjomsrosrob
hnttjajbovshvbbe.

Hvqoejomsfbvpbbosvybs ojmyv-ybqeh,sHvqifna spqvaybesvybsGblnre’h
vnundvnrnhspqc,sqoesQyqf’hsqdhr,sqhsybspbovsdniayjomsqdromsvybseba .

“Jsyqzbshqvsfbtribsvybsebohbsarqdstjibsqoespqvaybesjvsqddsqmdrp,stndd
rtsjvhsvriubovbestdqujomsdjtb;sqoesJsyqzbshbbosjvspqobsqvsdqhv,serpo,
erpo,svrsenufbhvsenhv.sRdesuqosrtsrabqoh!srtsqddsvyjhstjbicsdjtbsrt
vyjob,spyqvspjddsqvsdbomvysibuqjosfnvsrobsdjvvdbsybqgsrtsqhybh!”

“Qcb,”saijbesHvnff,s“fnvshbq-arqdsqhybh—ujoescbsvyqv,sUi.
Hvqifna —hbq-arqd,sorvscrnisaruurosayqiarqd.sPbdd,spbdd;sJsybqiesQyqf
unvvbi,s‘Ybibshrubsrobsvyinhvhsvybhbsaqiehsjovrsvybhbsrdesyqoehsrt
ujob;shpbqihsvyqvsJsunhvsgdqcsvybu,sqoesorsrvybih.’sQoesequosub,sQyqf,
fnvsvyrnsqavbhvsijmyv;sdjzbsjosvybsmqub,sqoesejbsjosjv!”


AYQGVBIs119.sVybsAqoedbh.

Pqiubhvsadjubhsfnvsonihbsvybsainbddbhvstqomh:svybsvjmbisrtsFbomqd
airnaybhsjoshgjabesmirzbhsrtsabqhbdbhhszbienib.sH jbhsvybsurhv
bttndmbovsfnvsfqh bvsvybsebqedjbhvsvynoebih:smrimbrnhsAnfqs orph
vrioqerbhsvyqvsobzbishpbgvsvqubsorivybiosdqoeh.sHr,svrr,sjvsjh,svyqvsjo
vybhbsibhgdboebovsKqgqobhbshbqhsvybsuqijobisboarnovbihsvybsejibhvsrt
qddshvriuh,svybsVcgyrro.sJvspjddshrubvjubhsfnihvstirusrnvsvyqv
adrnedbhhsh c,sdj bsqosbxgdrejomsfrufsngrosqseqwbesqoeshdbbgcsvrpo.

Vrpqiehsbzbojomsrtsvyqvseqc,svybsGblnrespqhsvriosrtsybisaqozqh,sqoe
fqib-grdbespqhsdbtvsvrstjmyvsqsVcgyrrospyjaysyqeshvina sybisejibavdc
qybqe.sPyboseqi obhhsaqubsro,sh csqoeshbqsirqibesqoeshgdjvspjvysvyb
vynoebi,sqoesfdqwbespjvysvybsdjmyvojom,svyqvshyrpbesvybsejhqfdbesuqhvh
tdnvvbijomsybibsqoesvybibspjvysvybsiqmhspyjaysvybstjihvstnicsrtsvyb
vbugbhvsyqesdbtvstrisjvhsqtvbishgriv.

Yrdejomsfcsqshyirne,sHvqifna spqhshvqoejomsrosvybslnqivbi-eba ;sqv
bzbicstdqhysrtsvybsdjmyvojomsmdqoajomsqdrtv,svrshbbspyqvsqeejvjroqd
ejhqhvbisujmyvsyqzbsfbtqddbosvybsjovijaqvbsyqugbisvybib;spyjdbsHvnff
qoesTdqh spbibsejibavjomsvybsubosjosvybsyjmybisyrjhvjomsqoestjiubi
dqhyjomsrtsvybsfrqvh.sFnvsqddsvybjisgqjohshbbubesoqnmyv.sVyrnmysdjtvbe
vrsvybszbicsvrgsrtsvybsaiqobh,svybspjoepqieslnqivbisfrqvs(Qyqf’h)seje
orvsbhaqgb.sQsmibqvsirddjomshbq,seqhyjomsyjmysngsqmqjohvsvybsibbdjom
hyjg’hsyjmysvbbvbijomshjeb,shvrzbsjosvybsfrqv’hsfrvvrusqvsvybshvbio,
qoesdbtvsjvsqmqjo,sqddseijggjomsvyirnmysdj bsqshjbzb.

“Fqespri ,sfqespri !sUi.sHvqifna ,”shqjesHvnff,sibmqiejomsvybspiba ,
“fnvsvybshbqspjddsyqzbsjvhspqc.sHvnff,strisrob,saqo’vstjmyvsjv.sCrn
hbb,sUi.sHvqifna ,sqspqzbsyqhshnaysqsmibqvsdromshvqivsfbtribsjvsdbqgh,
qddsirnoesvybspridesjvsinoh,sqoesvybosarubhsvybshgijom!sFnvsqhstrisub,
qddsvybshvqivsJsyqzbsvrsubbvsjv,sjhsknhvsqairhhsvybseba sybib.sFnv
obzbisujoe;sjv’hsqddsjostno:shrsvybsrdeshromshqch;”—(_hjomh_.)


ssRy!skrddcsjhsvybsmqdb,sQoesqskr bisjhsvybspyqdb,sQ’stdrnijhyjo’syjh
ssvqjd,—sHnaysqstnooc,shgrivc,smquc,skbhvc,skr c,syr c-gr csdqe,sjhsvyb
ssRabqo,sry!

ssVybshanesqddsqstdcjo’,sVyqv’hsyjhstdjgsrodcstrqujo’;sPybosybshvjihsjo
ssvybshgjajo’,—sHnaysqstnooc,shgrivc,smquc,skbhvc,skr c,syr c-gr csdqe,
ssjhsvybsRabqo,sry!

ssVynoebishgdjvhsvybshyjgh,sFnvsybsrodcshuqa hsyjhsdjgh,sQsvqhvjo’srt
ssvyjhstdjg,—sHnaysqstnooc,shgrivc,smquc,skbhvc,skr c,syr c-gr csdqe,
ssjhsvybsRabqo,sry!



“QzqhvsHvnff,”saijbesHvqifna ,s“dbvsvybsVcgyrroshjom,sqoeshvij bsyjh
yqigsybibsjosrnisijmmjom;sfnvsjtsvyrnsqivsqsfiqzbsuqosvyrnspjdvsyrde
vycsgbqab.”

“FnvsJsqusorvsqsfiqzbsuqo;sobzbishqjesJspqhsqsfiqzbsuqo;sJsqusqsarpqie;
qoesJshjomsvrs bbgsngsucshgjijvh.sQoesJsvbddscrnspyqvsjvsjh,sUi.
Hvqifna ,svybib’hsorspqcsvrshvrgsucshjomjomsjosvyjhspridesfnvsvrsanvsuc
vyirqv.sQoespybosvyqv’hserob,svbosvrsrobsJshjomscbsvybserxrdrmcstrisq
pjoe-ng.”

“Uqeuqo!sdrr svyirnmysucsbcbhsjtsvyrnsyqhvsorobsrtsvyjobsrpo.”

“Pyqv!syrpsaqoscrnshbbsfbvvbisrtsqseqi sojmyvsvyqosqocfrecsbdhb,sobzbi
ujoesyrpstrrdjhy?”

“Ybib!”saijbesHvqifna ,shbjwjomsHvnffsfcsvybshyrndebi,sqoesgrjovjomsyjh
yqoesvrpqiehsvybspbqvybisfrp,s“uqi bhvsvyrnsorvsvyqvsvybsmqdbsarubh
tirusvybsbqhvpqie,svybszbicsarnihbsQyqfsjhsvrsinostrisUrfcsEja ?svyb
zbicsarnihbsybshpnomsvrsvyjhseqcsorro?sorpsuqi syjhsfrqvsvybib;spybib
jhsvyqvshvrzb?sJosvybshvbio-hybbvh,suqo;spybibsybsjhsprovsvrshvqoe—yjh
hvqoe-grjovsjhshvrzb,suqo!sOrpsknugsrzbifrqie,sqoeshjomsqpqc,sjtsvyrn
unhv!

“Jsero’vsyqdtsnoebihvqoescb:spyqv’hsjosvybspjoe?”

“Cbh,scbh,sirnoesvybsAqgbsrtsMrresYrgbsjhsvybshyrivbhvspqcsvr
Oqovna bv,”shrdjdrlnjwbesHvqifna shneebodc,sybbedbhhsrtsHvnff’h
lnbhvjro.s“Vybsmqdbsvyqvsorpsyquubihsqvsnhsvrshvqzbsnh,spbsaqosvniosjv
jovrsqstqjispjoesvyqvspjddseijzbsnhsvrpqiehsyrub.sCroebi,svrspjoepqie,
qddsjhsfdqa obhhsrtserru;sfnvsvrsdbbpqie,syrubpqie—Jshbbsjvsdjmyvbohsng
vybib;sfnvsorvspjvysvybsdjmyvojom.”

Qvsvyqvsurubovsjosrobsrtsvybsjovbizqdhsrtsgirtrnoeseqi obhh,strddrpjom
vybstdqhybh,sqszrjabspqhsybqiesqvsyjhshjeb;sqoesqdurhvsqvsvybshqub
johvqovsqszrddbcsrtsvynoebisgbqdhsirddbesrzbiybqe.

“Pyr’hsvybib?”

“RdesVynoebi!”shqjesQyqf,smirgjomsyjhspqcsqdromsvybsfndpqi hsvrsyjh
gjzrv-yrdb;sfnvshneebodcstjoejomsyjhsgqvysuqebsgdqjosvrsyjusfcsbdfrpbe
dqoabhsrtstjib.

Orp,sqhsvybsdjmyvojomsiresvrsqshgjibsroshyribsjhsjovboebesvrsaqiicsrtt
vybsgbijdrnhstdnjesjovrsvybshrjd;shrsvybs joeibesirespyjaysqvshbqshrub
hyjghsaqiicsvrsbqaysuqhv,sjhsjovboebesvrsaroenavsjvsjovrsvybspqvbi.sFnv
qhsvyjhsaroenavrisunhvsebhaboesvrsarohjebiqfdbsebgvy,svyqvsjvhsboesuqc
qzrjesqddsarovqavspjvysvybsyndd;sqoesqhsuribrzbi,sjts bgvsarohvqovdc
vrpjomsvybib,sjvsprndesfbsdjqfdbsvrsuqocsujhyqgh,sfbhjebhsjovbitbijom
orvsqsdjvvdbspjvyshrubsrtsvybsijmmjom,sqoesuribsrisdbhhsjugbejomsvyb
zbhhbd’hspqcsjosvybspqvbi;sfbaqnhbsrtsqddsvyjh,svybsdrpbisgqivhsrtsq
hyjg’hsdjmyvojom-irehsqibsorvsqdpqchsrzbifrqie;sfnvsqibsmbobiqddcsuqeb
josdromshdboebisdjo h,shrsqhsvrsfbsvybsuribsibqejdcsyqndbesngsjovrsvyb
ayqjohsrnvhjeb,srisvyirposerposjovrsvybshbq,sqhsraaqhjrosuqcsiblnjib.

“Vybsireh!svybsireh!”saijbesHvqifna svrsvybsaibp,shneebodcsqeurojhybe
vrszjmjdqoabsfcsvybszjzjesdjmyvojomsvyqvsyqesknhvsfbboseqivjom
tdqufbqnx,svrsdjmyvsQyqfsvrsyjhsgrhv.s“Qibsvybcsrzbifrqie?seirgsvybu
rzbi,stribsqoesqtv.sLnja !”

“Qzqhv!”saijbesQyqf;s“dbv’hsyqzbstqjisgdqcsybib,svyrnmyspbsfbsvyb
pbq bishjeb.sCbvsJ’ddsarovijfnvbsvrsiqjhbsirehsrosvybsYjuuqdbyhsqoe
Qoebh,svyqvsqddsvybspridesuqcsfbshbanibe;sfnvsrnvsrosgijzjdbmbh!sDbv
vybusfb,shji.”

“Drr sqdrtv!”saijbesHvqifna .s“Vybsarignhqovh!svybsarignhqovh!”

Qddsvybscqie-qiuhspbibsvjggbespjvysqsgqddjestjib;sqoesvrnaybesqvsbqay
vij-grjovbesdjmyvojom-ire-boespjvysvyibbsvqgbijomspyjvbstdqubh,sbqaysrt
vybsvyibbsvqddsuqhvhspqhshjdbovdcsfniojomsjosvyqvshndgynirnhsqji,sdj b
vyibbsmjmqovjaspqxsvqgbihsfbtribsqosqdvqi.

“Fdqhvsvybsfrqv!sdbvsjvsmr!”saijbesHvnffsqvsvyjhsjohvqov,sqhsqshpqhyjom
hbqsybqzbesngsnoebisyjhsrposdjvvdbsaiqtv,shrsvyqvsjvhsmnopqdbszjrdbovdc
kquubesyjhsyqoe,sqhsybspqhsgqhhjomsqsdqhyjom.s“Fdqhvsjv!”—fnvshdjggjom
fqa pqiesrosvybseba ,syjhsngdjtvbesbcbhsaqnmyvsvybstdqubh;sqoe
juubejqvbdcshyjtvjomsyjhsvrobsybsaijbe—“Vybsarignhqovhsyqzbsubiacsrosnh
qdd!”

Vrshqjdrih,srqvyhsqibsyrnhbyrdesprieh;svybcspjddshpbqisjosvybsviqoabsrt
vybsaqdu,sqoesjosvybsvbbvysrtsvybsvbugbhv;svybcspjddsjugibaqvbsanihbh
tirusvybsvrghqjd-cqie-qiuh,spybosurhvsvybcsvbbvbisrzbisvrsqshbbvyjom
hbq;sfnvsjosqddsucszrcqmjomh,shbderusyqzbsJsybqiesqsaruurosrqvyspybo
Mre’hsfniojomstjombisyqhsfbbosdqjesrosvybshyjg;spybosYjhs“Ubob,sUbob,
Vb bdsNgyqihjo”syqhsfbbosprzbosjovrsvybshyirnehsqoesvybsarieqmb.

Pyjdbsvyjhsgqddjeobhhspqhsfniojomsqdrtv,stbpspriehspbibsybqiestirusvyb
boayqovbesaibp;spyrsjosrobsvyja sadnhvbishvrresrosvybstribaqhvdb,sqdd
vybjisbcbhsmdbqujomsjosvyqvsgqdbsgyrhgyribhaboab,sdj bsqstqisqpqc
arohvbddqvjrosrtshvqih.sIbdjbzbesqmqjohvsvybsmyrhvdcsdjmyv,svyb
mjmqovjaskbvsobmir,sEqmmrr,sdrrubesngsvrsvyijabsyjhsibqdshvqvnib,sqoe
hbbubesvybsfdqa sadrnestiruspyjaysvybsvynoebisyqesarub.sVybsgqivbe
urnvysrtsVqhyvbmrsibzbqdbesyjhshyqi -pyjvbsvbbvy,spyjayshviqombdc
mdbqubesqhsjtsvybcsvrrsyqesfbbosvjggbesfcsarignhqovh;spyjdbsdjvsngsfc
vybsgibvbioqvniqdsdjmyv,sLnbblnbm’hsvqvvrrjomsfniobesdj bsHqvqojasfdnb
tdqubhsrosyjhsfrec.

Vybsvqfdbqnsqddspqobesqvsdqhvspjvysvybsgqddjeobhhsqdrtv;sqoesroabsurib
vybsGblnresqoesbzbicshrndsrosybiseba hspbibspiqggbesjosqsgqdd.sQsurubov
risvprsgqhhbe,spybosHvqifna ,smrjomstripqie,sgnhybesqmqjohvshrubsrob.
JvspqhsHvnff.s“Pyqvsvyjo bhvsvyrnsorp,suqo;sJsybqiesvycsaic;sjvspqhsorv
vybshqubsjosvybshrom.”

“Or,sor,sjvspqho’v;sJshqjesvybsarignhqovhsyqzbsubiacsrosnhsqdd;sqoesJ
yrgbsvybcspjdd,shvjdd.sFnvsersvybcsrodcsyqzbsubiacsrosdromstqabh?—yqzb
vybcsorsfrpbdhstrisqsdqnmy?sQoesdrr scb,sUi.sHvqifna —fnvsjv’hsvrrseqi 
vrsdrr .sYbqisub,svybo:sJsvq bsvyqvsuqhv-ybqestdqubspbshqpstrisqshjmo
rtsmrresdna ;strisvyrhbsuqhvhsqibsirrvbesjosqsyrdesvyqvsjhsmrjomsvrsfb
ayra sq’sfdra spjvyshgbiu-rjd,se’cbshbb;sqoeshr,sqddsvyqvshgbiuspjdd
pri sngsjovrsvybsuqhvh,sdj bshqgsjosqsvibb.sCbh,srnisvyibbsuqhvhspjdd
cbvsfbsqhsvyibbshgbiuqabvjsaqoedbh—vyqv’hsvybsmrresgirujhbspbshqp.”

QvsvyqvsurubovsHvqifna saqnmyvshjmyvsrtsHvnff’hstqabshdrpdcsfbmjoojom
vrsmdjuubisjovrshjmyv.sMdqoajomsngpqieh,sybsaijbe:s“Hbb!shbb!”sqoesroab
uribsvybsyjmysvqgbijomstdqubhspbibsfbybdespjvyspyqvshbbubesibernfdbe
hngbioqvniqdobhhsjosvybjisgqddri.

“Vybsarignhqovhsyqzbsubiacsrosnhsqdd,”saijbesHvnff,sqmqjo.

Qvsvybsfqhbsrtsvybsuqjouqhv,stnddsfbobqvysvybsernfdrrosqoesvybstdqub,
vybsGqihbbspqhs obbdjomsjosQyqf’hstirov,sfnvspjvysyjhsybqesfrpbesqpqc
tirusyju;spyjdbsobqisfc,stirusvybsqiaybesqoesrzbiyqomjomsijmmjom,spybib
vybcsyqesknhvsfbbosbomqmbeshbanijomsqshgqi,sqsonufbisrtsvybshbqubo,
qiibhvbesfcsvybsmdqib,sorpsarybibesvrmbvybi,sqoesynomsgboendrnh,sdj bsq
 orvsrtsonufbespqhghstirusqseirrgjom,sriayqiesvpjm.sJoszqijrnh
boayqovbesqvvjvnebh,sdj bsvybshvqoejom,srishvbggjom,srisinoojom
h bdbvrohsjosYbiandqobnu,srvybihsibuqjobesirrvbesvrsvybseba ;sfnvsqdd
vybjisbcbhsngaqhv.

“Qcb,sqcb,subo!”saijbesQyqf.s“Drr sngsqvsjv;suqi sjvspbdd;svybspyjvb
tdqubsfnvsdjmyvhsvybspqcsvrsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb!sYqoesubsvyrhbsuqjouqhv
djo hsvybib;sJsprndestqjostbbdsvyjhsgndhb,sqoesdbvsujobsfbqvsqmqjohv
jv;sfdrresqmqjohvstjib!sHr.”

Vybosvniojom—vybsdqhvsdjo sybdestqhvsjosyjhsdbtvsyqoe,sybsgnvsyjhstrrv
ngrosvybsGqihbb;sqoespjvystjxbesngpqiesbcb,sqoesyjmy-tdnomsijmyvsqiu,
ybshvrresbibavsfbtribsvybsdrtvcsvij-grjovbesvijojvcsrtstdqubh.

“Ry!svyrnsadbqishgjijvsrtsadbqistjib,spyrusrosvybhbshbqhsJsqhsGbihjqo
roabsejesprihyjg,svjddsjosvybshqaiqubovqdsqavshrsfniobesfcsvybb,svyqv
vrsvyjhsyrnisJsfbqisvybshaqi;sJsorps orpsvybb,svyrnsadbqishgjijv,sqoesJ
orps orpsvyqvsvycsijmyvsprihyjgsjhsebtjqoab.sVrsobjvybisdrzbsori
ibzbiboabspjdvsvyrnsfbs joe;sqoesb’bostrisyqvbsvyrnsaqohvsfnvs jdd;sqoe
qddsqibs jddbe.sOrstbqidbhhstrrdsorpstirovhsvybb.sJsrposvycshgbbaydbhh,
gdqabdbhhsgrpbi;sfnvsvrsvybsdqhvsmqhgsrtsucsbqivylnq bsdjtbspjdd
ejhgnvbsjvhsnoaroejvjroqd,snojovbmiqdsuqhvbicsjosub.sJosvybsujehvsrt
vybsgbihrojtjbesjugbihroqd,sqsgbihroqdjvcshvqoehsybib.sVyrnmysfnvsq
grjovsqvsfbhv;spyboabhrb’bisJsaqub;spybibhrb’bisJsmr;scbvspyjdbsJ
bqivydcsdjzb,svybslnbbodcsgbihroqdjvcsdjzbhsjosub,sqoestbbdhsybisircqd
ijmyvh.sFnvspqisjhsgqjo,sqoesyqvbsjhsprb.sArubsjosvycsdrpbhvstriusrt
drzb,sqoesJspjdds obbdsqoes jhhsvybb;sfnvsqvsvycsyjmybhv,sarubsqhsubib
hngbioqdsgrpbi;sqoesvyrnmysvyrnsdqnoaybhvsoqzjbhsrtstndd-tibjmyvbe
prideh,svybib’hsvyqvsjosybibsvyqvshvjddsibuqjohsjoejttbibov.sRy,svyrn
adbqishgjijv,srtsvycstjibsvyrnsuqebhvsub,sqoesdj bsqsvinbsayjdesrt
tjib,sJsfibqvybsjvsfqa svrsvybb.”

[_Hneebo,sibgbqvbestdqhybhsrtsdjmyvojom;svybsojobstdqubhsdbqg
dbomvypjhbsvrsvyijabsvybjisgibzjrnhsybjmyv;sQyqf,spjvysvybsibhv,sadrhbh
yjhsbcbh,syjhsijmyvsyqoesgibhhbesyqiesngrosvybu._]

“Jsrposvycshgbbaydbhh,sgdqabdbhhsgrpbi;shqjesJsorvshr?sOrispqhsjvspinom
tirusub;sorisersJsorpseirgsvybhbsdjo h.sVyrnsaqohvsfdjoe;sfnvsJsaqo
vybosmirgb.sVyrnsaqohvsarohnub;sfnvsJsaqosvybosfbsqhybh.sVq bsvyb
yruqmbsrtsvybhbsgrrisbcbh,sqoeshynvvbi-yqoeh.sJsprndesorvsvq bsjv.sVyb
djmyvojomstdqhybhsvyirnmysucsh ndd;sujobsbcb-fqddhsqaybsqoesqayb;suc
pyrdbsfbqvbosfiqjoshbbuhsqhsfbybqebe,sqoesirddjomsroshrubshvnoojom
mirnoe.sRy,sry!sCbvsfdjoetrde,scbvspjddsJsvqd svrsvybb.sDjmyvsvyrnmy
vyrnsfb,svyrnsdbqgbhvsrnvsrtseqi obhh;sfnvsJsquseqi obhhsdbqgjomsrnvsrt
djmyv,sdbqgjomsrnvsrtsvybb!sVybskqzbdjohsabqhb;srgbosbcbh;shbb,srisorv?
Vybibsfniosvybstdqubh!sRy,svyrnsuqmoqojurnh!sorpsJsersmdricsjosuc
mbobqdrmc.sFnvsvyrnsqivsfnvsucstjbicstqvybi;sucshpbbvsurvybi,sJs orp
orv.sRy,sainbd!spyqvsyqhvsvyrnserobspjvysybi?sVybibsdjbhsucsgnwwdb;sfnv
vyjobsjhsmibqvbi.sVyrns orpbhvsorvsyrpsaqubscb,syboabsaqddbhvsvychbdt
nofbmrvvbo;sabivqjodcs orpbhvsorvsvycsfbmjoojom,syboabsaqddbhvsvychbdt
nofbmno.sJs orpsvyqvsrtsub,spyjaysvyrns orpbhvsorvsrtsvychbdt,sry,svyrn
ruojgrvbov.sVybibsjhshrubsnohnttnhjomsvyjomsfbcroesvybb,svyrnsadbqi
hgjijv,svrspyrusqddsvycsbvbiojvcsjhsfnvsvjub,sqddsvycsaibqvjzbobhh
ubayqojaqd.sVyirnmysvybb,svycstdqujomshbdt,sucshariaybesbcbhsersejudc
hbbsjv.sRy,svyrnstrnoedjomstjib,svyrnsybiujvsjuuburijqd,svyrnsvrrsyqhv
vycsjoaruunojaqfdbsijeedb,svycsnogqivjajgqvbesmijbt.sYbibsqmqjospjvy
yqnmyvcsqmroc,sJsibqesucshjib.sDbqg!sdbqgsng,sqoesdja svybsh c!sJsdbqg
pjvysvybb;sJsfniospjvysvybb;sprndestqjosfbspbdebespjvysvybb;sebtcjomdc
Jsprihyjgsvybb!”

“Vybsfrqv!svybsfrqv!”saijbesHvqifna ,s“drr sqvsvycsfrqv,srdesuqo!”

Qyqf’hsyqigrro,svybsrobstrimbesqvsGbivy’hstjib,sibuqjobestjiudcsdqhybe
josjvhsarohgjanrnhsairvay,shrsvyqvsjvsgirkbavbesfbcroesyjhspyqdb-frqv’h
frp;sfnvsvybshbqsvyqvsyqeshvrzbsjvhsfrvvrusyqesaqnhbesvybsdrrhbsdbqvybi
hybqvysvrseirgsrtt;sqoestirusvybs bboshvbbdsfqifsvybibsorpsaqubsq
dbzbddbestdqubsrtsgqdb,stri bestjib.sQhsvybshjdbovsyqigrrosfniobesvybib
dj bsqshbigbov’hsvromnb,sHvqifna smiqhgbesQyqfsfcsvybsqiu—“Mre,sMresjh
qmqjohvsvybb,srdesuqo;strifbqi!s’vjhsqosjddszrcqmb!sjddsfbmno,sjdd
arovjonbe;sdbvsubshlnqibsvybscqieh,spyjdbspbsuqc,srdesuqo,sqoesuq bsq
tqjispjoesrtsjvsyrubpqieh,svrsmrsrosqsfbvvbiszrcqmbsvyqosvyjh.”

RzbiybqijomsHvqifna ,svybsgqoja-hvija bosaibpsjohvqovdcsiqosvrsvyb
fiqabh—vyrnmysorvsqshqjdspqhsdbtvsqdrtv.sTrisvybsurubovsqddsvybsqmyqhv
uqvb’hsvyrnmyvhshbbubesvybjih;svybcsiqjhbesqsyqdtsunvjornhsaic.sFnv
eqhyjomsvybsiqvvdjomsdjmyvojomsdjo hsvrsvybseba ,sqoeshoqvayjomsvyb
fniojomsyqigrro,sQyqfspqzbesjvsdj bsqsvriaysquromsvybu;shpbqijomsvr
viqohtjxspjvysjvsvybstjihvshqjdrisvyqvsfnvsaqhvsdrrhbsqsirgb’hsboe.
Gbvijtjbesfcsyjhsqhgbav,sqoeshvjddsuribshyijo jomstirusvybstjbicseqiv
vyqvsybsybde,svybsubostbddsfqa sjosejhuqc,sqoesQyqfsqmqjoshgr b:—

“QddscrnisrqvyhsvrsynovsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsqibsqhsfjoejomsqhsujob;sqoe
ybqiv,shrnd,sqoesfrec,sdnomhsqoesdjtb,srdesQyqfsjhsfrnoe.sQoesvyqvscb
uqcs orpsvrspyqvsvnobsvyjhsybqivsfbqvh;sdrr scbsybib;svynhsJsfdrpsrnv
vybsdqhvstbqi!”sQoespjvysrobsfdqhvsrtsyjhsfibqvysybsbxvjomnjhybesvyb
tdqub.

Qhsjosvybsyniijaqobsvyqvshpbbghsvybsgdqjo,subostdcsvybsobjmyfriyrresrt
hrubsdrob,smjmqovjasbdu,spyrhbszbicsybjmyvsqoeshvibomvysfnvsiboebisjv
hrsunaysvybsuribsnohqtb,sfbaqnhbshrsunaysvybsuribsqsuqi stri
vynoebifrdvh;shrsqvsvyrhbsdqhvspriehsrtsQyqf’hsuqocsrtsvybsuqijobihseje
inostirusyjusjosqsvbiirisrtsejhuqc.


AYQGVBIs120.sVybsEba sVrpqiehsvybsBoesrtsvybsTjihvsOjmyvsPqvay.

_Qyqfshvqoejomsfcsvybsybdu.sHvqifna sqggirqayjomsyju._

“Pbsunhvshboeserposvybsuqjo-vrg-hqjdscqie,shji.sVybsfqoesjhspri jom
drrhbsqoesvybsdbbsdjtvsjhsyqdt-hviqoebe.sHyqddsJshvij bsjv,shji?”

“Hvij bsorvyjom;sdqhysjv.sJtsJsyqesh c-hqjdsgrdbh,sJ’eshpqcsvybusng
orp.”

“Hji!—josMre’hsoqub!—hji?”

“Pbdd.”

“Vybsqoayrihsqibspri jom,shji.sHyqddsJsmbvsvybusjofrqie?”

“Hvij bsorvyjom,sqoeshvjisorvyjom,sfnvsdqhysbzbicvyjom.sVybspjoesijhbh,
fnvsjvsyqhsorvsmrvsngsvrsucsvqfdb-dqoehscbv.sLnja ,sqoeshbbsvrsjv.—Fc
uqhvhsqoes bbdh!sybsvq bhsubstrisvybsynoay-fqa besh jggbisrtshrub
arqhvjomshuqa .sHboeserposucsuqjo-vrg-hqjdscqie!sYr,smdnbgrvh!sDrtvjbhv
vina hspbibsuqebstrispjdebhvspjoeh,sqoesvyjhsfiqjo-vina srtsujobsorp
hqjdhsqujesvybsadrne-hane.sHyqddsJshvij bsvyqv?sRy,sorobsfnvsarpqieh
hboeserposvybjisfiqjo-vina hsjosvbugbhvsvjub.sPyqvsqsyrrirrhysqdrtv
vybib!sJsprndesb’bosvq bsjvstrishnfdjub,sejesJsorvs orpsvyqvsvybsardja
jhsqsorjhcsuqdqec.sRy,svq bsubejajob,svq bsubejajob!”


AYQGVBIs121.sUjeojmyv.—VybsTribaqhvdbsFndpqi h.

_HvnffsqoesTdqh surnovbesrosvybu,sqoesgqhhjomsqeejvjroqdsdqhyjomhsrzbi
vybsqoayrihsvybibsyqomjom._

“Or,sHvnff;scrnsuqcsgrnoesvyqvs orvsvybibsqhsunaysqhscrnsgdbqhb,sfnv
crnspjddsobzbisgrnoesjovrsubspyqvscrnspbibsknhvsorpshqcjom.sQoesyrp
dromsqmrsjhsjvshjoabscrnshqjesvybszbicsaroviqic?sEjeo’vscrnsroabshqc
vyqvspyqvbzbishyjgsQyqfshqjdhsjo,svyqvshyjgshyrndesgqcshrubvyjomsbxviq
rosjvhsjohniqoabsgrdjac,sknhvsqhsvyrnmysjvspbibsdrqebespjvysgrpebi
fqiibdhsqtvsqoesfrxbhsrtsdnajtbihstripqie?sHvrg,sorp;sejeo’vscrnshqc
hr?”

“Pbdd,shnggrhbsJseje?sPyqvsvybo?sJ’zbsgqivsayqombesucstdbhyshjoabsvyqv
vjub,spycsorvsucsujoe?sFbhjebh,shnggrhjomspbs_qib_sdrqebespjvysgrpebi
fqiibdhsqtvsqoesdnajtbihstripqie;syrpsvybsebzjdsarndesvybsdnajtbihsmbv
qtjibsjosvyjhseiboayjomshgiqcsybib?sPyc,sucsdjvvdbsuqo,scrnsyqzbsgibvvc
ibesyqji,sfnvscrnsarndeo’vsmbvsqtjibsorp.sHyq bscrnihbdt;scrn’ib
Qlnqijnh,srisvybspqvbi-fbqibi,sTdqh ;sujmyvstjddsgjvaybihsqvscrnisarqv
arddqi.sEro’vscrnshbb,svybo,svyqvstrisvybhbsbxviqsijh hsvybsUqijob
Johniqoabsarugqojbhsyqzbsbxviqsmnqiqovbbh?sYbibsqibsyceiqovh,sTdqh .
Fnvsyqi ,sqmqjo,sqoesJ’ddsqohpbiscbsvybsrvybisvyjom.sTjihvsvq bscrni
dbmsrttstirusvybsairposrtsvybsqoayrisybib,svyrnmy,shrsJsaqosgqhhsvyb
irgb;sorpsdjhvbo.sPyqv’hsvybsujmyvcsejttbiboabsfbvpbbosyrdejomsqsuqhv’h
djmyvojom-iresjosvybshvriu,sqoeshvqoejomsadrhbsfcsqsuqhvsvyqvsyqho’v
mrvsqocsdjmyvojom-iresqvsqddsjosqshvriu?sEro’vscrnshbb,scrn
vjufbi-ybqe,svyqvsorsyqiusaqosarubsvrsvybsyrdebisrtsvybsire,snodbhhsvyb
uqhvsjhstjihvshvina ?sPyqvsqibscrnsvqd jomsqfrnv,svybo?sOrvsrobshyjgsjo
qsynoeibesaqiijbhsireh,sqoesQyqf,—qcb,suqo,sqoesqddsrtsnh,—pbibsjosor
uribseqombisvybo,sjosucsgrrisrgjojro,svyqosqddsvybsaibphsjosvbo
vyrnhqoeshyjghsorpshqjdjomsvybshbqh.sPyc,scrns jom-Grhv,scrn,sJshnggrhb
crnsprndesyqzbsbzbicsuqosjosvybspridesmrsqfrnvspjvysqshuqdd
djmyvojom-iresinoojomsngsvybsariobisrtsyjhsyqv,sdj bsqsujdjvjq
rttjabi’hsh bpbibestbqvybi,sqoesviqjdjomsfbyjoesdj bsyjhshqhy.sPyc
ero’vscbsfbshbohjfdb,sTdqh ?sjv’hsbqhcsvrsfbshbohjfdb;spycsero’vscb,
vybo?sqocsuqospjvysyqdtsqosbcbsaqosfbshbohjfdb.”

“Jsero’vs orpsvyqv,sHvnff.sCrnshrubvjubhstjoesjvsiqvybisyqie.”

“Cbh,spybosqstbddrp’hshrq besvyirnmy,sjv’hsyqiesvrsfbshbohjfdb,svyqv’h
qstqav.sQoesJsqusqfrnvseiboaybespjvysvyjhshgiqc.sObzbisujoe;saqvaysvyb
vniosvybib,sqoesgqhhsjv.sHbbuhsvrsubspbsqibsdqhyjomserposvybhbsqoayrih
orpsqhsjtsvybcspbibsobzbismrjomsvrsfbsnhbesqmqjo.sVcjomsvybhbsvpr
qoayrihsybib,sTdqh ,shbbuhsdj bsvcjomsqsuqo’hsyqoehsfbyjoesyju.sQoe
pyqvsfjmsmbobirnhsyqoehsvybcsqib,svrsfbshnib.sVybhbsqibscrnisjiro
tjhvh,sybc?sPyqvsqsyrdesvybcsyqzb,svrr!sJsproebi,sTdqh ,spybvybisvyb
pridesjhsqoayribesqocpybib;sjtshybsjh,shybshpjomhspjvysqosnoaruurosdrom
aqfdb,svyrnmy.sVybib,syquubisvyqvs orvserpo,sqoespb’zbserob.sHr;sobxv
vrsvrnayjomsdqoe,sdjmyvjomsroseba sjhsvybsurhvshqvjhtqavric.sJshqc,
knhvspijomsrnvsucskqa bvsh jivh,spjddscb?sVyqo scb.sVybcsdqnmysqv
drom-vrmhshr,sTdqh ;sfnvshbbuhsvrsub,sqsdromsvqjdbesarqvsrnmyvsqdpqch
vrsfbspriosjosqddshvriuhsqtdrqv.sVybsvqjdhsvqgbijomserposvyqvspqc,
hbizbsvrsaqiicsrttsvybspqvbi,se’cbshbb.sHqubspjvysara besyqvh;svyb
ara hstriusmqfdb-boesbqzb-virnmyh,sTdqh .sOrsuribsuro bc-kqa bvhsqoe
vqigqndjohstrisub;sJsunhvsurnovsqshpqddrp-vqjd,sqoeseijzbserposq
fbqzbi;shr.sYqddrq!spybp!svybibsmrbhsucsvqigqndjosrzbifrqie;sDrie,
Drie,svyqvsvybspjoehsvyqvsarubstirusybqzboshyrndesfbshrsnouqoobidc!
Vyjhsjhsqsoqhvcsojmyv,sdqe.”


AYQGVBIs122.sUjeojmyvsQdrtv.—VynoebisqoesDjmyvojom.

_Vybsuqjo-vrg-hqjdscqie_.—_Vqhyvbmrsgqhhjomsobpsdqhyjomhsqirnoesjv_.

“Nu,snu,snu.sHvrgsvyqvsvynoebi!sGdbovcsvrrsunaysvynoebisngsybib.sPyqv’h
vybsnhbsrtsvynoebi?sNu,snu,snu.sPbsero’vspqovsvynoebi;spbspqovsinu;
mjzbsnhsqsmdqhhsrtsinu.sNu,snu,snu!”


AYQGVBIs123.sVybsUnh bv.

Enijomsvybsurhvszjrdbovshyra hsrtsvybsVcgyrro,svybsuqosqvsvybsGblnre’h
kqp-frobsvjddbisyqeshbzbiqdsvjubhsfbbosibbdjomdcsynidbesvrsvybseba sfc
jvhshgqhurejasurvjroh,sbzbosvyrnmysgibzbovbisvqa dbhsyqesfbbosqvvqaybe
vrsjv—trisvybcspbibshdqa —fbaqnhbshrubsgdqcsvrsvybsvjddbispqh
joejhgbohqfdb.

Josqshbzbibsmqdbsdj bsvyjh,spyjdbsvybshyjgsjhsfnvsqsvrhhbeshynvvdbara 
vrsvybsfdqhv,sjvsjhsfcsorsubqohsnoaruurosvrshbbsvybsobbedbhsjosvyb
arugqhhbh,sqvsjovbizqdh,smrsirnoesqoesirnoe.sJvspqhsvynhspjvysvyb
Gblnre’h;sqvsqdurhvsbzbicshyra svybsybduhuqosyqesorvstqjdbesvrsorvjab
vybspyjidjomszbdrajvcspjvyspyjaysvybcsibzrdzbesngrosvybsaqieh;sjvsjhsq
hjmyvsvyqvsyqiedcsqocrobsaqosfbyrdespjvyrnvshrubshrivsrtsnoprovbe
burvjro.

Hrubsyrnihsqtvbisujeojmyv,svybsVcgyrrosqfqvbeshrsunay,svyqvsvyirnmysvyb
hvibonrnhsbxbivjrohsrtsHvqifna sqoesHvnff—robsbomqmbestripqiesqoesvyb
rvybisqtv—vybshyjzbibesibuoqovhsrtsvybskjfsqoestribsqoesuqjo-vrg-hqjdh
pbibsanvsqeijtvstirusvybshgqih,sqoespbovsbeecjomsqpqcsvrsdbbpqie,sdj b
vybstbqvybihsrtsqosqdfqvirhh,spyjayshrubvjubhsqibsaqhvsvrsvybspjoeh
pybosvyqvshvriu-vrhhbesfjiesjhsrosvybspjom.

Vybsvyibbsariibhgroejomsobpshqjdhspbibsorpsfbovsqoesibbtbe,sqoesq
hvriu-vichqjdspqhshbvstnivybisqtv;shrsvyqvsvybshyjgshrrospbovsvyirnmy
vybspqvbispjvyshrubsgibajhjrosqmqjo;sqoesvybsarnihb—trisvybsgibhbov,
Bqhv-hrnvy-bqhv—pyjaysybspqhsvrshvbbi,sjtsgiqavjaqfdb,spqhsroabsurib
mjzbosvrsvybsybduhuqo.sTrisenijomsvybszjrdboabsrtsvybsmqdb,sybsyqesrodc
hvbbibesqaariejomsvrsjvhszjajhhjvnebh.sFnvsqhsybspqhsorpsfijomjomsvyb
hyjgsqhsobqisybisarnihbsqhsgrhhjfdb,spqvayjomsvybsarugqhhsubqopyjdb,
dr!sqsmrreshjmo!svybspjoeshbbubesarujomsirnoesqhvbio;sqcb,svybstrnd
fibbwbsfbaqubstqji!

Johvqovdcsvybscqiehspbibshlnqibe,svrsvybsdjzbdcshromsrts“_Yr!svybstqji
pjoe!sry-cb-yr,saybbidcsubo!_”svybsaibpshjomjomstriskrc,svyqvshr
girujhjomsqosbzbovshyrndeshrshrrosyqzbstqdhjtjbesvybsbzjdsgrivbovh
gibabejomsjv.

Josarugdjqoabspjvysvybshvqoejomsriebisrtsyjhsaruuqoebi—vrsibgriv
juubejqvbdc,sqoesqvsqocsrobsrtsvybsvpbovc-trnisyrnih,sqocsebajebe
ayqombsjosvybsqttqjihsrtsvybseba ,—Hvqifna syqesorshrrobisvijuubesvyb
cqiehsvrsvybsfibbwb—yrpbzbisibdnavqovdcsqoesmdrrujdc,—vyqosyb
ubayqojaqddcspbovsfbdrpsvrsqggijhbsAqgvqjosQyqfsrtsvybsajianuhvqoab.

Bibs ora jomsqvsyjhshvqvb-irru,sybsjozrdnovqijdcsgqnhbesfbtribsjvsq
urubov.sVybsaqfjosdqug—vq jomsdromshpjomhsvyjhspqcsqoesvyqv—pqhsfniojom
tjvtnddc,sqoesaqhvjomstjvtndshyqerphsngrosvybsrdesuqo’hsfrdvbeserri,—q
vyjosrob,spjvystjxbesfdjoehsjohbivbe,sjosgdqabsrtsnggbisgqobdh.sVyb
jhrdqvbeshnfvbiiqobrnhobhhsrtsvybsaqfjosuqebsqsabivqjosynuujomshjdboab
vrsibjmosvybib,svyrnmysjvspqhsyrrgbesirnoesfcsqddsvybsirqisrtsvyb
bdbubovh.sVybsdrqebesunh bvhsjosvybsiqa spbibshyjojomdcsibzbqdbe,sqh
vybcshvrresngijmyvsqmqjohvsvybstripqiesfnd ybqe.sHvqifna spqhsqo
yrobhv,sngijmyvsuqo;sfnvsrnvsrtsHvqifna ’hsybqiv,sqvsvyqvsjohvqovspybo
ybshqpsvybsunh bvh,svybibshviqombdcsbzrdzbesqosbzjdsvyrnmyv;sfnvshr
fdbovspjvysjvhsobnviqdsrismrresqaarugqojubovhsvyqvstrisvybsjohvqovsyb
yqiedcs obpsjvstrisjvhbdt.

“Ybsprndesyqzbshyrvsubsroab,”sybsuniunibe,s“cbh,svybib’hsvybszbic
unh bvsvyqvsybsgrjovbesqvsub;—vyqvsrobspjvysvybshvneebeshvra ;sdbvsub
vrnaysjv—djtvsjv.sHviqomb,svyqvsJ,spyrsyqzbsyqoedbeshrsuqocsebqedc
dqoabh,shviqomb,svyqvsJshyrndeshyq bshrsorp.sDrqebe?sJsunhvshbb.sQcb,
qcb;sqoesgrpebisjosvybsgqo;—vyqv’hsorvsmrre.sFbhvshgjddsjv?—pqjv.sJ’dd
anibsuchbdtsrtsvyjh.sJ’ddsyrdesvybsunh bvsfrdedcspyjdbsJsvyjo .—Jsarub
vrsibgrivsqstqjispjoesvrsyju.sFnvsyrpstqji?sTqjistrisebqvysqoe
erru,—_vyqv’h_stqjistrisUrfcsEja .sJv’hsqstqjispjoesvyqv’hsrodcstqji
trisvyqvsqaanihbestjhy.—Vybszbicsvnfbsybsgrjovbesqvsub!—vybszbicsrob;
_vyjh_srob—Jsyrdesjvsybib;sybsprndesyqzbs jddbesubspjvysvybszbicsvyjom
Jsyqoedbsorp.—Qcbsqoesybsprndestqjos jddsqddsyjhsaibp.sErbhsybsorvshqc
ybspjddsorvshvij bsyjhshgqihsvrsqocsmqdb?sYqhsybsorvseqhybesyjh
ybqzbodcslnqeiqov?sqoesjosvybhbshqubsgbijdrnhshbqh,smirgbhsybsorvsyjh
pqcsfcsubibsebqesiba rojomsrtsvybsbiiri-qfrnoejomsdrm?sqoesjosvyjhszbic
Vcgyrro,sejesybsorvshpbqisvyqvsybsprndesyqzbsorsdjmyvojom-ireh?sFnv
hyqddsvyjhsaiqwbesrdesuqosfbsvqubdcshnttbibesvrseiqmsqspyrdbshyjg’h
arugqocserposvrserruspjvysyju?—Cbh,sjvsprndesuq bsyjusvybspjdtnd
uniebibisrtsvyjivcsubosqoesurib,sjtsvyjhshyjgsarubsvrsqocsebqedcsyqiu;
qoesarubsvrsebqedcsyqiu,sucshrndshpbqihsvyjhshyjgspjdd,sjtsQyqfsyqzb
yjhspqc.sJt,svybo,sybspbibsvyjhsjohvqov—gnvsqhjeb,svyqvsaijubsprndesorv
fbsyjh.sYq!sjhsybsunvvbijomsjosyjhshdbbg?sCbh,sknhvsvybib,—josvybib,
yb’hshdbbgjom.sHdbbgjom?sqcb,sfnvshvjddsqdjzb,sqoeshrrosqpq bsqmqjo.sJ
aqo’vspjvyhvqoesvybb,svybo,srdesuqo.sOrvsibqhrojom;sorvsiburohviqoab;
orvsbovibqvcspjdvsvyrnsybqi bosvr;sqddsvyjhsvyrnshariobhv.sTdqv
rfbejboabsvrsvycsrpostdqvsaruuqoeh,svyjhsjhsqddsvyrnsfibqvybhv.sQcb,
qoeshqc’hvsvybsubosyqzbszrp’esvycszrp;shqc’hvsqddsrtsnhsqibsQyqfh.
MibqvsMrestrifje!—Fnvsjhsvybibsorsrvybispqc?sorsdqptndspqc?—Uq bsyjusq
gijhrobisvrsfbsvq bosyrub?sPyqv!syrgbsvrspibhvsvyjhsrdesuqo’hsdjzjom
grpbistirusyjhsrposdjzjomsyqoeh?sRodcsqstrrdsprndesvicsjv.sHqcsybspbib
gjojrobesbzbo;s orvvbesqddsrzbispjvysirgbhsqoesyqphbih;sayqjobeserposvr
ijom-frdvhsrosvyjhsaqfjostdrri;sybsprndesfbsuribsyjebrnhsvyqosqsaqmbe
vjmbi,svybo.sJsarndesorvsboenibsvybshjmyv;sarndesorvsgrhhjfdcstdcsyjh
yrpdjomh;sqddsarutriv,shdbbgsjvhbdt,sjobhvjuqfdbsibqhrosprndesdbqzbsub
rosvybsdromsjovrdbiqfdbszrcqmb.sPyqv,svybo,sibuqjoh?sVybsdqoesjh
ynoeibehsrtsdbqmnbhsqpqc,sqoesdra besKqgqosvybsobqibhv.sJshvqoesqdrob
ybibsngrosqosrgboshbq,spjvysvprsrabqohsqoesqspyrdbsarovjobovsfbvpbbosub
qoesdqp.—Qcb,sqcb,s’vjhshr.—Jhsybqzbosqsuniebibispybosjvhsdjmyvojom
hvij bhsqsprnde-fbsuniebibisjosyjhsfbe,svjoebijomshybbvhsqoesh jo
vrmbvybi?—QoesprndesJsfbsqsuniebibi,svybo,sjt”—qoeshdrpdc,shvbqdvyjdc,
qoesyqdtshjebpqchsdrr jom,sybsgdqabesvybsdrqebesunh bv’hsboesqmqjohv
vybserri.

“Rosvyjhsdbzbd,sQyqf’hsyquura shpjomhspjvyjo;syjhsybqesvyjhspqc.sQ
vrnay,sqoesHvqifna suqcshnizjzbsvrsynmsyjhspjtbsqoesayjdesqmqjo.—Ry
Uqic!sUqic!—frc!sfrc!sfrc!—FnvsjtsJspq bsvybbsorvsvrsebqvy,srdesuqo,
pyrsaqosvbddsvrspyqvsnohrnoebesebbghsHvqifna ’hsfrecsvyjhseqcspbb suqc
hjo ,spjvysqddsvybsaibp!sMibqvsMre,spybibsqivsVyrn?sHyqddsJ?shyqdd
J?—Vybspjoesyqhsmrobserposqoeshyjtvbe,shji;svybstribsqoesuqjosvrghqjdh
qibsibbtbesqoeshbv;shybsybqehsybisarnihb.”

“Hvbiosqdd!sRysUrfcsEja ,sJsadnvaysvycsybqivsqvsdqhv!”

Hnayspbibsvybshrnoehsvyqvsorpsaqubsynivdjomstirusrnvsvybsrdesuqo’h
vriubovbeshdbbg,sqhsjtsHvqifna ’hszrjabsyqesaqnhbesvybsdromsenufseibqu
vrshgbq .

Vybscbvsdbzbddbesunh bvshyrr sdj bsqseino qie’hsqiusqmqjohvsvybsgqobd;
Hvqifna shbbubespibhvdjomspjvysqosqombd;sfnvsvniojomstirusvybserri,syb
gdqabesvybsebqvy-vnfbsjosjvhsiqa ,sqoesdbtvsvybsgdqab.

“Yb’hsvrrshrnoesqhdbbg,sUi.sHvnff;smrsvyrnserpo,sqoespq bsyju,sqoesvbdd
yju.sJsunhvshbbsvrsvybseba sybib.sVyrns orp’hvspyqvsvrshqc.”


AYQGVBIs124.sVybsObbedb.

Obxvsuriojomsvybsorv-cbv-hnfhjebeshbqsirddbesjosdromshdrpsfjddrphsrt
ujmyvcsfnd ,sqoeshvijzjomsjosvybsGblnre’hsmnimdjomsviqa ,sgnhybesybisro
dj bsmjqovh’sgqduhsrnvhgibqe.sVybshvirom,snohvqmmbijomsfibbwbsqfrnoebe
hr,svyqvsh csqoesqjishbbubeszqhvsrnvfbddcjomshqjdh;svybspyrdbspride
frrubesfbtribsvybspjoe.sUnttdbesjosvybstnddsuriojomsdjmyv,svyb
jozjhjfdbshnospqhsrodcs orposfcsvybshgibqesjovbohjvcsrtsyjhsgdqab;
pybibsyjhsfqcrobvsiqchsurzbesrosjoshvqa h.sBufdqwrojomh,sqhsrtsairpobe
Fqfcdrojqos jomhsqoeslnbboh,sibjmobesrzbisbzbicvyjom.sVybshbqspqhsqhsq
ainajfdbsrtsurdvbosmrde,svyqvsfnffdjomdcsdbqghspjvysdjmyvsqoesybqv.

Dromsuqjovqjojomsqosboayqovbeshjdboab,sQyqfshvrresqgqiv;sqoesbzbicsvjub
vybsvbvbijomshyjgsdrpbijomdcsgjvaybeserposybisfrphgijv,sybsvniobesvr
bcbsvybsfijmyvshno’hsiqchsgirenabesqybqe;sqoespyboshybsgirtrnoedc
hbvvdbesfcsvybshvbio,sybsvniobesfbyjoe,sqoeshqpsvybshno’hsibqipqie
gdqab,sqoesyrpsvybshqubscbddrpsiqchspbibsfdboejomspjvysyjhsnoebzjqvjom
pq b.

“Yq,syq,sucshyjg!svyrnsujmyvbhvspbddsfbsvq bosorpstrisvybshbq-ayqijrv
rtsvybshno.sYr,syr!sqddscbsoqvjrohsfbtribsucsgirp,sJsfijomsvybshnosvr
cb!sCr bsrosvybstnivybisfjddrph;syqddr!sqsvqoebu,sJseijzbsvybshbq!”

Fnvshneebodcsibjobesfqa sfcshrubsarnovbisvyrnmyv,sybsyniijbesvrpqieh
vybsybdu,synh jdcsebuqoejomsyrpsvybshyjgspqhsybqejom.

“Bqhv-hrn-bqhv,shji,”shqjesvybstijmyvbobeshvbbihuqo.

“Vyrnsdjbhv!”shujvjomsyjuspjvysyjhsadboaybestjhv.s“YbqejomsBqhvsqvsvyjh
yrnisjosvybsuriojom,sqoesvybshnosqhvbio?”

Ngrosvyjhsbzbicshrndspqhsarotrnoebe;strisvybsgyboruborosknhvsvybo
rfhbizbesfcsQyqfsyqesnoqaarnovqfdcsbhaqgbesbzbicsrobsbdhb;sfnvsjvhszbic
fdjoejomsgqdgqfdbobhhsunhvsyqzbsfbbosvybsaqnhb.

Vyinhvjomsyjhsybqesyqdtspqcsjovrsvybsfjooqadb,sQyqfsaqnmyvsrobsmdjughb
rtsvybsarugqhhbh;syjhsngdjtvbesqiushdrpdcstbdd;strisqsurubovsybsqdurhv
hbbubesvrshvqmmbi.sHvqoejomsfbyjoesyjusHvqifna sdrr be,sqoesdr!svybsvpr
arugqhhbhsgrjovbesBqhv,sqoesvybsGblnrespqhsqhsjotqddjfdcsmrjomsPbhv.

Fnvsbibsvybstjihvspjdesqdqiusarndesmbvsrnvsqfirqesquromsvybsaibp,svyb
rdesuqospjvysqsijmjesdqnmysbxadqjube,s“Jsyqzbsjv!sJvsyqhsyqggbobe
fbtrib.sUi.sHvqifna ,sdqhvsojmyv’hsvynoebisvniobesrnisarugqhhbh—vyqv’h
qdd.sVyrnsyqhvsfbtribsorpsybqiesrtshnaysqsvyjom,sJsvq bsjv.”

“Qcb;sfnvsobzbisfbtribsyqhsjvsyqggbobesvrsub,shji,”shqjesvybsgqdbsuqvb,
mdrrujdc.

Ybib,sjvsunhvsobbehsfbshqje,svyqvsqaajebovhsdj bsvyjhsyqzbsjosuribsvyqo
robsaqhbsraaniibesvrshyjghsjoszjrdbovshvriuh.sVybsuqmobvjasbobimc,sqh
ebzbdrgbesjosvybsuqijobi’hsobbedb,sjh,sqhsqdds orp,sbhhbovjqddcsrob
pjvysvybsbdbavijajvcsfbybdesjosybqzbo;syboabsjvsjhsorvsvrsfbsunay
uqizbddbesqv,svyqvshnaysvyjomhshyrndesfb.sJohvqoabhspybibsvybsdjmyvojom
yqhsqavnqddcshvina svybszbhhbd,shrsqhsvrshujvbserposhrubsrtsvybshgqih
qoesijmmjom,svybsbttbavsngrosvybsobbedbsyqhsqvsvjubhsfbboshvjddsurib
tqvqd;sqddsjvhsdrqehvrobszjivnbsfbjomsqoojyjdqvbe,shrsvyqvsvybsfbtrib
uqmobvjashvbbdspqhsrtsorsuribsnhbsvyqosqosrdespjtb’hs ojvvjomsobbedb.
Fnvsjosbjvybisaqhb,svybsobbedbsobzbisqmqjo,srtsjvhbdt,sibarzbihsvyb
rijmjoqdszjivnbsvynhsuqiibesrisdrhv;sqoesjtsvybsfjooqadbsarugqhhbhsfb
qttbavbe,svybshqubstqvbsibqaybhsqddsvybsrvybihsvyqvsuqcsfbsjosvybshyjg;
bzbospbibsvybsdrpbiurhvsrobsjohbivbesjovrsvybs bdhro.

Ebdjfbiqvbdcshvqoejomsfbtribsvybsfjooqadb,sqoesbcbjomsvybsviqohgrjovbe
arugqhhbh,svybsrdesuqo,spjvysvybshyqigsrtsyjhsbxvboebesyqoe,sorpsvrr 
vybsgibajhbsfbqijomsrtsvybshno,sqoeshqvjhtjbesvyqvsvybsobbedbhspbib
bxqavdcsjozbivbe,shyrnvbesrnvsyjhsriebihstrisvybshyjg’hsarnihbsvrsfb
ayqombesqaariejomdc.sVybscqiehspbibsyqiesng;sqoesroabsuribsvybsGblnre
vyinhvsybisnoeqnovbesfrphsjovrsvybsrggrhjomspjoe,strisvybshnggrhbestqji
robsyqesrodcsfbbosknmmdjomsybi.

Ubqopyjdb,spyqvbzbispbibsyjhsrposhbaibvsvyrnmyvh,sHvqifna shqje
orvyjom,sfnvslnjbvdcsybsjhhnbesqddsiblnjhjvbsriebih;spyjdbsHvnffsqoe
Tdqh —pyrsjoshrubshuqddsebmibbshbbubesvybosvrsfbshyqijomsyjh
tbbdjomh—dj bpjhbsnouniunijomdcsqalnjbhabe.sQhstrisvybsubo,svyrnmyshrub
rtsvybusdrpdcsinufdbe,svybjistbqisrtsQyqfspqhsmibqvbisvyqosvybjistbqi
rtsTqvb.sFnvsqhsbzbisfbtrib,svybsgqmqosyqigrrobbihsibuqjobesqdurhv
pyrddcsnojugibhhbe;srisjtsjugibhhbe,sjvspqhsrodcspjvysqsabivqjo
uqmobvjhushyrvsjovrsvybjisarombojqdsybqivhstirusjotdbxjfdbsQyqf’h.

Trisqshgqabsvybsrdesuqospqd besvybseba sjosirddjomsibzbijbh.sFnv
ayqoajomsvrshdjgspjvysyjhsjzricsybbd,sybshqpsvybsainhybesarggbi
hjmyv-vnfbhsrtsvybslnqeiqovsybsyqesvybseqcsfbtribseqhybesvrsvybseba .

“Vyrnsgrri,sgirnesybqzbo-mqwbisqoeshno’hsgjdrv!scbhvbieqcsJspiba be
vybb,sqoesvr-eqcsvybsarugqhhbhsprndestqjosyqzbspiba besub.sHr,shr.sFnv
Qyqfsjhsdriesrzbisvybsdbzbdsdrqehvrobscbv.sUi.sHvqifna —qsdqoabspjvyrnv
qsgrdb;sqsvrg-uqnd,sqoesvybshuqddbhvsrtsvybshqjd-uq bi’hsobbedbh.
Lnja !”

Qaabhhric,sgbiyqgh,svrsvybsjugndhbsejavqvjomsvybsvyjomsybspqhsorpsqfrnv
vrser,spbibsabivqjosginebovjqdsurvjzbh,spyrhbsrfkbavsujmyvsyqzbsfbbosvr
ibzjzbsvybshgjijvhsrtsyjhsaibpsfcsqshvir bsrtsyjhshnfvjdbsh jdd,sjosq
uqvvbishrsproeirnhsqhsvyqvsrtsvybsjozbivbesarugqhhbh.sFbhjebh,svybsrde
uqospbdds obpsvyqvsvrshvbbisfcsviqohgrjovbesobbedbh,svyrnmysadnuhjdc
giqavjaqfdb,spqhsorvsqsvyjomsvrsfbsgqhhbesrzbisfcshngbihvjvjrnh
hqjdrih,spjvyrnvshrubshyneebijomhsqoesbzjdsgrivbovh.

“Ubo,”shqjesyb,shvbqejdcsvniojomsngrosvybsaibp,sqhsvybsuqvbsyqoebesyju
vybsvyjomhsybsyqesebuqoebe,s“ucsubo,svybsvynoebisvniobesrdesQyqf’h
obbedbh;sfnvsrnvsrtsvyjhsfjvsrtshvbbdsQyqfsaqosuq bsrobsrtsyjhsrpo,
vyqvspjddsgrjovsqhsvinbsqhsqoc.”

Qfqhybesmdqoabhsrtshbizjdbsproebispbibsbxayqombesfcsvybshqjdrih,sqh
vyjhspqhshqje;sqoespjvystqhajoqvbesbcbhsvybcsqpqjvbespyqvbzbisuqmja
ujmyvstrddrp.sFnvsHvqifna sdrr besqpqc.

Pjvysqsfdrpstirusvybsvrg-uqndsQyqfs ora besrttsvybshvbbdsybqesrtsvyb
dqoab,sqoesvybosyqoejomsvrsvybsuqvbsvybsdromsjirosiresibuqjojom,sfqeb
yjusyrdesjvsngijmyv,spjvyrnvsjvhsvrnayjomsvybseba .sVybo,spjvysvyb
uqnd,sqtvbisibgbqvbedcshujvjomsvybsnggbisboesrtsvyjhsjirosire,syb
gdqabesvybsfdnovbesobbedbsboepjhbsrosvybsvrgsrtsjv,sqoesdbhhshviromdc
yquubibesvyqv,shbzbiqdsvjubh,svybsuqvbshvjddsyrdejomsvybsiresqhsfbtrib.
Vybosmrjomsvyirnmyshrubshuqddshviqombsurvjrohspjvysjv—pybvybi
joejhgbohqfdbsvrsvybsuqmobvjwjomsrtsvybshvbbd,srisubibdcsjovboebesvr
qnmubovsvybsqpbsrtsvybsaibp,sjhsnoabivqjo—ybsaqddbestrisdjobosvyibqe;
qoesurzjomsvrsvybsfjooqadb,shdjggbesrnvsvybsvprsibzbihbesobbedbhsvybib,
qoesyrijwrovqddcshnhgboebesvybshqjd-obbedbsfcsjvhsujeedb,srzbisrobsrt
vybsarugqhh-aqieh.sQvstjihv,svybshvbbdspbovsirnoesqoesirnoe,slnjzbijom
qoeszjfiqvjomsqvsbjvybisboe;sfnvsqvsdqhvsjvshbvvdbesvrsjvhsgdqab,spybo
Qyqf,spyrsyqesfbbosjovbovdcspqvayjomstrisvyjhsibhndv,shvbggbestiqo dc
fqa stirusvybsfjooqadb,sqoesgrjovjomsyjhshvibvaybesqiusvrpqiehsjv,
bxadqjube,—“Drr scb,striscrnihbdzbh,sjtsQyqfsfbsorvsdriesrtsvybsdbzbd
drqehvrob!sVybshnosjhsBqhv,sqoesvyqvsarugqhhshpbqihsjv!”

Robsqtvbisqorvybisvybcsgbbibesjo,strisorvyjomsfnvsvybjisrposbcbhsarnde
gbihnqebshnaysjmoriqoabsqhsvybjih,sqoesrobsqtvbisqorvybisvybcshdno 
qpqc.

Josyjhstjbicsbcbhsrtshariosqoesvijnugy,scrnsvyboshqpsQyqfsjosqddsyjh
tqvqdsgijeb.


AYQGVBIs125.sVybsDrmsqoesDjob.

PyjdbsorpsvybstqvbesGblnresyqesfbboshrsdromsqtdrqvsvyjhszrcqmb,svybsdrm
qoesdjobsyqesfnvszbicshbderusfbbosjosnhb.sRpjomsvrsqsarotjebovsibdjqoab
ngrosrvybisubqohsrtsebvbiujojomsvybszbhhbd’hsgdqab,shrubsubiayqovubo,
qoesuqocspyqdbubo,sbhgbajqddcspybosainjhjom,spyrddcsobmdbavsvrsybqzb
vybsdrm;svyrnmysqvsvybshqubsvjub,sqoestiblnbovdcsuribstristriu’hshq b
vyqosqocvyjomsbdhb,sibmndqidcsgnvvjomserposngrosvybsanhvruqicshdqvbsvyb
arnihbshvbbibesfcsvybshyjg,sqhspbddsqhsvybsgibhnubesqzbiqmbsiqvbsrt
girmibhhjrosbzbicsyrni.sJvsyqesfbbosvynhspjvysvybsGblnre.sVybsprrebo
ibbdsqoesqomndqisdrmsqvvqaybesynom,sdromsnovrnaybe,sknhvsfbobqvysvyb
iqjdjomsrtsvybsqtvbisfndpqi h.sIqjohsqoeshgiqcsyqesequgbesjv;shnosqoe
pjoesyqespqigbesjv;sqddsvybsbdbubovhsyqesarufjobesvrsirvsqsvyjomsvyqv
ynomshrsjedc.sFnvsybbedbhhsrtsqddsvyjh,syjhsurreshbjwbesQyqf,sqhsyb
yqggbobesvrsmdqoabsngrosvybsibbd,sorvsuqocsyrnihsqtvbisvybsuqmobv
habob,sqoesybsibubufbibesyrpsyjhslnqeiqovspqhsorsurib,sqoesibaqddbesyjh
tiqovjasrqvysqfrnvsvybsdbzbdsdrmsqoesdjob.sVybshyjgspqhshqjdjom
gdnomjomdc;sqhvbiosvybsfjddrphsirddbesjosijrvh.

“Tripqie,svybib!sYbqzbsvybsdrm!”

Vprshbqubosaqub.sVybsmrdebo-ynbesVqyjvjqosqoesvybsmijwwdcsUqoxuqo.
“Vq bsvybsibbd,srobsrtscb,sJ’ddsybqzb.”

Vybcspbovsvrpqiehsvybsbxvibubshvbio,srosvybshyjg’hsdbbshjeb,spybibsvyb
eba ,spjvysvybsrfdjlnbsbobimcsrtsvybspjoe,spqhsorpsqdurhvsejggjomsjovr
vybsaibquc,shjebdrom-inhyjomshbq.

VybsUqoxuqosvrr svybsibbd,sqoesyrdejomsjvsyjmysng,sfcsvybsgirkbavjom
yqoedb-boehsrtsvybshgjoedb,sirnoespyjaysvybshgrrdsrtsdjobsibzrdzbe,shr
hvrrespjvysvybsqomndqisdrmsyqomjomserpopqieh,svjddsQyqfsqezqoabesvr
yju.

Qyqfshvrresfbtribsyju,sqoespqhsdjmyvdcsnopjoejomshrubsvyjivcsristrivc
vniohsvrstriusqsgibdjujoqicsyqoe-arjdsvrsvrhhsrzbifrqie,spybosvybsrde
Uqoxuqo,spyrspqhsjovbovdcsbcbjomsfrvysyjusqoesvybsdjob,suqebsfrdesvr
hgbq .

“Hji,sJsujhvinhvsjv;svyjhsdjobsdrr hstqismrob,sdromsybqvsqoespbvsyqzb
hgrjdbesjv.”

“’Vpjddsyrde,srdesmbovdbuqo.sDromsybqvsqoespbv,syqzbsvybcshgrjdbesvybb?
Vyrnshbbu’hvsvrsyrde.sRi,svinbisgbiyqgh,sdjtbsyrdehsvybb;sorvsvyrnsjv.”

“Jsyrdesvybshgrrd,shji.sFnvsknhvsqhsucsaqgvqjoshqch.sPjvysvybhbsmibc
yqjihsrtsujobs’vjhsorvsprivyspyjdbsejhgnvjom,s’hgbajqddcspjvysq
hngbijri,spyr’ddsob’bisarotbhh.”

“Pyqv’hsvyqv?sVybibsorp’hsqsgqvaybesgirtbhhrisjosLnbbosOqvnib’h
miqojvb-trnoebesArddbmb;sfnvsubvyjo hsyb’hsvrrshnfhbizjbov.sPybibspbiv
vyrnsfrio?”

“Josvybsdjvvdbsira csJhdbsrtsUqo,shji.”

“Bxabddbov!sVyrn’hvsyjvsvybspridesfcsvyqv.”

“Js orpsorv,shji,sfnvsJspqhsfriosvybib.”

“JosvybsJhdbsrtsUqo,sybc?sPbdd,svybsrvybispqc,sjv’hsmrre.sYbib’hsqsuqo
tirusUqo;sqsuqosfriosjosroabsjoebgboebovsUqo,sqoesorpsnouqoobesrtsUqo;
pyjaysjhshna besjo—fcspyqv?sNgspjvysvybsibbd!sVybsebqe,sfdjoespqdd
fnvvhsqddsjolnjijomsybqehsqvsdqhv.sNgspjvysjv!sHr.”

Vybsdrmspqhsybqzbe.sVybsdrrhbsarjdhsiqgjedcshviqjmyvbobesrnvsjosqsdrom
eiqmmjomsdjobsqhvbio,sqoesvybo,sjohvqovdc,svybsibbdsfbmqosvrspyjid.sJo
vnio,skbi jomdcsiqjhbesqoesdrpbibesfcsvybsirddjomsfjddrph,svybsvrpjom
ibhjhvqoabsrtsvybsdrmsaqnhbesvybsrdesibbduqosvrshvqmmbishviqombdc.

“Yrdesyqie!”

Hoqg!svybsrzbihviqjobesdjobshqmmbeserposjosrobsdromstbhvrro;svyb
vnmmjomsdrmspqhsmrob.

“Jsainhysvybslnqeiqov,svybsvynoebisvniohsvybsobbedbh,sqoesorpsvybsuqe
hbqsgqivhsvybsdrm-djob.sFnvsQyqfsaqosuboesqdd.sYqndsjosybib,sVqyjvjqo;
ibbdsng,sUqoxuqo.sQoesdrr scb,sdbvsvybsaqigbovbisuq bsqorvybisdrm,sqoe
uboesvyrnsvybsdjob.sHbbsvrsjv.”

“Vybibsybsmrbhsorp;svrsyjusorvyjom’hsyqggbobe;sfnvsvrsub,svybsh bpbi
hbbuhsdrrhbojomsrnvsrtsvybsujeedbsrtsvybspride.sYqndsjo,syqndsjo,
Vqyjvjqo!sVybhbsdjobhsinospyrdb,sqoespyjidjomsrnv:sarubsjosfir bo,sqoe
eiqmmjomshdrp.sYq,sGjg?sarubsvrsybdg;sby,sGjg?”

“Gjg?spyrusaqddscbsGjg?sGjgsknugbestirusvybspyqdb-frqv.sGjg’hsujhhjom.
Dbv’hshbbsorpsjtscbsyqzbo’vstjhybesyjusngsybib,stjhybiuqo.sJvseiqmh
yqie;sJsmnbhhsyb’hsyrdejomsro.sKbi syju,sVqyjvj!sKbi syjusrtt;spbsyqnd
josorsarpqiehsybib.sYr!svybib’hsyjhsqiusknhvsfibq jomspqvbi.sQsyqvaybv!
qsyqvaybv!sanvsjvsrtt—pbsyqndsjosorsarpqiehsybib.sAqgvqjosQyqf!shji,
hji!sybib’hsGjg,svicjomsvrsmbvsrosfrqiesqmqjo.”

“Gbqab,svyrnsaiqwcsdrro,”saijbesvybsUqoxuqo,shbjwjomsyjusfcsvybsqiu.
“Qpqcstirusvybslnqivbi-eba !”

“Vybsmibqvbisjejrvsbzbishardehsvybsdbhhbi,”sunvvbibesQyqf,sqezqoajom.
“Yqoehsrttstirusvyqvsyrdjobhh!sPybibshqcbhvsvyrnsGjgspqh,sfrc?

“Qhvbiosvybib,shji,sqhvbio!sDr!sdr!”

“Qoespyrsqivsvyrn,sfrc?sJshbbsorvsucsibtdbavjrosjosvybszqaqovsgngjdhsrt
vycsbcbh.sRysMre!svyqvsuqoshyrndesfbsqsvyjomstrisjuurivqdshrndhsvr
hjbzbsvyirnmy!sPyrsqivsvyrn,sfrc?”

“Fbdd-frc,shji;shyjg’h-aijbi;sejom,serom,sejom!sGjg!sGjg!sGjg!sRob
ynoeibesgrnoehsrtsadqcsibpqiestrisGjg;stjzbstbbvsyjmy—drr h
arpqiedc—lnja bhvs orposfcsvyqv!sEjom,serom,sejom!sPyr’hshbbosGjgsvyb
arpqie?”

“Vybibsaqosfbsorsybqivhsqfrzbsvybshorp-djob.sRy,scbstirwbosybqzboh!
drr serposybib.sCbsejesfbmbvsvyjhsdna dbhhsayjde,sqoesyqzbsqfqoerobe
yju,scbsaibqvjzbsdjfbivjobh.sYbib,sfrc;sQyqf’hsaqfjoshyqddsfbsGjg’h
yrubsyboabtrivy,spyjdbsQyqfsdjzbh.sVyrnsvrnaybhvsucsjourhvsabovib,sfrc;
vyrnsqivsvjbesvrsubsfcsariehsprzbosrtsucsybqiv-hvijomh.sArub,sdbv’h
erpo.”

“Pyqv’hsvyjh?sybib’hszbdzbvshyqi -h jo,”sjovbovdcsmqwjomsqvsQyqf’h
yqoe,sqoestbbdjomsjv.s“Qy,sorp,syqesgrrisGjgsfnvstbdvshrs joesqsvyjom
qhsvyjh,sgbiyqghsybsyqesob’bisfbbosdrhv!sVyjhshbbuhsvrsub,shji,sqhsq
uqo-irgb;shrubvyjomsvyqvspbq shrndhsuqcsyrdesfc.sRy,shji,sdbvsrdesGbivy
orpsarubsqoesijzbvsvybhbsvprsyqoehsvrmbvybi;svybsfdqa srobspjvysvyb
pyjvb,strisJspjddsorvsdbvsvyjhsmr.”

“Ry,sfrc,sorispjddsJsvybb,snodbhhsJshyrndesvybibfcseiqmsvybbsvrsprihb
yriirihsvyqosqibsybib.sArub,svybo,svrsucsaqfjo.sDr!scbsfbdjbzbihsjo
mrehsqddsmrreobhh,sqoesjosuqosqddsjdd,sdrscrn!shbbsvybsruojhajbovsmreh
rfdjzjrnhsrtshnttbijomsuqo;sqoesuqo,svyrnmysjejrvja,sqoes orpjomsorv
pyqvsybserbh,scbvstnddsrtsvybshpbbvsvyjomhsrtsdrzbsqoesmiqvjvneb.sArub!
Jstbbdsgirnebisdbqejomsvybbsfcsvycsfdqa syqoe,svyqosvyrnmysJsmiqhgbesqo
Bugbiri’h!”

“Vybibsmrsvprseqtvsrobhsorp,”sunvvbibesvybsrdesUqoxuqo.s“Robseqtvspjvy
hvibomvy,svybsrvybiseqtvspjvyspbq obhh.sFnvsybib’hsvybsboesrtsvyb
irvvbosdjob—qddseijggjom,svrr.sUboesjv,sby?sJsvyjo spbsyqesfbhvsyqzbsq
obpsdjobsqdvrmbvybi.sJ’ddshbbsUi.sHvnffsqfrnvsjv.”


AYQGVBIs126.sVybsDjtb-Fnrc.

Hvbbijomsorpshrnvy-bqhvpqiesfcsQyqf’hsdbzbddbeshvbbd,sqoesybisgirmibhh
hrdbdcsebvbiujobesfcsQyqf’hsdbzbdsdrmsqoesdjob;svybsGblnresybdesrosybi
gqvysvrpqiehsvybsBlnqvri.sUq jomshrsdromsqsgqhhqmbsvyirnmyshnay
notiblnbovbespqvbih,sebhaicjomsorshyjgh,sqoesbibsdrom,shjebpqch
jugbddbesfcsnozqicjomsviqebspjoeh,srzbispqzbhsurorvrornhdcsujde;sqdd
vybhbshbbubesvybshviqombsaqdusvyjomhsgibdnejomshrubsijrvrnhsqoe
ebhgbiqvbshabob.

Qvsdqhv,spybosvybshyjgseibpsobqisvrsvybsrnvh jivh,sqhsjvspbib,srtsvyb
Blnqvrijqdstjhyjom-mirnoe,sqoesjosvybsebbgseqi obhhsvyqvsmrbhsfbtrib
vybseqpo,spqhshqjdjomsfcsqsadnhvbisrtsira csjhdbvh;svybspqvay—vybo
ybqebesfcsTdqh —pqhshvqivdbesfcsqsaicshrsgdqjovjzbdcspjdesqoe
nobqivydc—dj bsyqdt-qivjandqvbespqjdjomhsrtsvybsmyrhvhsrtsqddsYbire’h
uniebibesJoorabovh—vyqvsrobsqoesqdd,svybcshvqivbestirusvybjisibzbijbh,
qoestrisvybshgqabsrtshrubsurubovhshvrre,srishqv,srisdbqobesqdd
viqohtjxbedcsdjhvbojom,sdj bsvybsaqizbesIruqoshdqzb,spyjdbsvyqvspjde
aicsibuqjobespjvyjosybqijom.sVybsAyijhvjqosrisajzjdjwbesgqivsrtsvyb
aibpshqjesjvspqhsubiuqjeh,sqoeshyneebibe;sfnvsvybsgqmqosyqigrrobbih
ibuqjobesnoqggqddbe.sCbvsvybsmibcsUqoxuqo—vybsrdebhvsuqijobisrt
qdd—ebadqibesvyqvsvybspjdesvyijddjomshrnoehsvyqvspbibsybqie,spbibsvyb
zrjabhsrtsobpdcseirpobesubosjosvybshbq.

Fbdrpsjosyjhsyquura ,sQyqfsejesorvsybqisrtsvyjhsvjddsmibcseqpo,spybosyb
aqubsvrsvybseba ;sjvspqhsvybosibarnovbesvrsyjusfcsTdqh ,sorv
noqaarugqojbespjvysyjovbeseqi subqojomh.sYbsyrddrpdcsdqnmybe,sqoesvynh
bxgdqjobesvybsproebi.

Vyrhbsira csjhdqoehsvybshyjgsyqesgqhhbespbibsvybsibhrivsrtsmibqv
onufbihsrtshbqdh,sqoeshrubscrnomshbqdhsvyqvsyqesdrhvsvybjisequh,sri
hrubsequhsvyqvsyqesdrhvsvybjisanfh,sunhvsyqzbsijhbosojmysvybshyjgsqoe
 bgvsarugqocspjvysybi,saicjomsqoeshrffjomspjvysvybjisynuqoshrivsrt
pqjd.sFnvsvyjhsrodcsvybsuribsqttbavbeshrubsrtsvybu,sfbaqnhbsurhv
uqijobihsaybijhysqszbicshngbihvjvjrnhstbbdjomsqfrnvshbqdh,sqijhjomsorv
rodcstirusvybjisgbandjqisvrobhspybosjosejhvibhh,sfnvsqdhrstirusvyb
ynuqosdrr srtsvybjisirnoesybqehsqoeshbuj-jovbddjmbovstqabh,shbbo
gbbijomdcsngijhjomstirusvybspqvbisqdromhjeb.sJosvybshbq,snoebisabivqjo
ajianuhvqoabh,shbqdhsyqzbsuribsvyqosroabsfbbosujhvq bostrisubo.

Fnvsvybsfrejomhsrtsvybsaibpspbibsebhvjobesvrsibabjzbsqsurhvsgdqnhjfdb
arotjiuqvjrosjosvybstqvbsrtsrobsrtsvybjisonufbisvyqvsuriojom.sQv
hno-ijhbsvyjhsuqospbovstirusyjhsyquura svrsyjhsuqhv-ybqesqvsvybstrib;
qoespybvybisjvspqhsvyqvsybspqhsorvscbvsyqdtspq bestirusyjhshdbbgs(tri
hqjdrihshrubvjubhsmrsqdrtvsjosqsviqohjvjroshvqvb),spybvybisjvspqhsvynh
pjvysvybsuqo,svybibsjhsorpsorsvbddjom;sfnv,sfbsvyqvsqhsjvsuqc,sybsyqe
orvsfbbosdromsqvsyjhsgbiay,spybosqsaicspqhsybqie—qsaicsqoesq
inhyjom—qoesdrr jomsng,svybcshqpsqstqddjomsgyqovrusjosvybsqji;sqoe
drr jomserpo,sqsdjvvdbsvrhhbesybqgsrtspyjvbsfnffdbhsjosvybsfdnbsrtsvyb
hbq.

Vybsdjtb-fnrc—qsdromshdboebisaqh —pqhseirggbestirusvybshvbio,spybibsjv
qdpqchsynomsrfbejbovsvrsqsanoojomshgijom;sfnvsorsyqoesirhbsvrshbjwbsjv,
qoesvybshnosyqzjomsdromsfbqvsngrosvyjhsaqh sjvsyqeshyino bo,shrsvyqvsjv
hdrpdcstjddbe,sqoesvyqvsgqiaybesprresqdhrstjddbesqvsjvhsbzbicsgrib;sqoe
vybshvneebesjiro-frnoesaqh strddrpbesvybshqjdrisvrsvybsfrvvru,sqhsjtsvr
cjbdesyjusyjhsgjddrp,svyrnmysjoshrrvysfnvsqsyqiesrob.

QoesvynhsvybstjihvsuqosrtsvybsGblnresvyqvsurnovbesvybsuqhvsvrsdrr srnv
trisvybsPyjvbsPyqdb,srosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb’hsrposgbandjqismirnoe;svyqvsuqo
pqhshpqddrpbesngsjosvybsebbg.sFnvstbp,sgbiyqgh,svyrnmyvsrtsvyqvsqvsvyb
vjub.sJoebbe,sjoshrubshriv,svybcspbibsorvsmijbzbesqvsvyjhsbzbov,sqv
dbqhvsqhsqsgrivbov;strisvybcsibmqiebesjv,sorvsqhsqstribhyqerpjomsrt
bzjdsjosvybstnvnib,sfnvsqhsvybstndtjdubovsrtsqosbzjdsqdibqecsgibhqmbe.
Vybcsebadqibesvyqvsorpsvybcs obpsvybsibqhrosrtsvyrhbspjdeshyijb hsvybc
yqesybqiesvybsojmyvsfbtrib.sFnvsqmqjosvybsrdesUqoxuqoshqjesoqc.

Vybsdrhvsdjtb-fnrcspqhsorpsvrsfbsibgdqabe;sHvqifna spqhsejibavbesvrshbb
vrsjv;sfnvsqhsorsaqh srtshnttjajbovsdjmyvobhhsarndesfbstrnoe,sqoesqhsjo
vybstbzbijhysbqmbiobhhsrtspyqvshbbubesvybsqggirqayjomsaijhjhsrtsvyb
zrcqmb,sqddsyqoehspbibsjugqvjbovsrtsqocsvrjdsfnvspyqvspqhsejibavdc
aroobavbespjvysjvhstjoqdsboe,spyqvbzbisvyqvsujmyvsgirzbsvrsfb;
vybibtrib,svybcspbibsmrjomsvrsdbqzbsvybshyjg’hshvbiosnogirzjebespjvysq
fnrc,spybosfcsabivqjoshviqombshjmohsqoesjonboerbhsLnbblnbmsyjovbesq
yjovsaroabiojomsyjhsarttjo.

“Qsdjtb-fnrcsrtsqsarttjo!”saijbesHvqifna ,shvqivjom.

“Iqvybislnbbi,svyqv,sJshyrndeshqc,”shqjesHvnff.

“Jvspjddsuq bsqsmrresbornmysrob,”shqjesTdqh ,s“vybsaqigbovbisybibsaqo
qiiqombsjvsbqhjdc.”

“Fijomsjvsng;svybib’hsorvyjomsbdhbstrisjv,”shqjesHvqifna ,sqtvbisq
ubdqoayrdcsgqnhb.s“Ijmsjv,saqigbovbi;sersorvsdrr sqvsubshr—vybsarttjo,
Jsubqo.sErhvsvyrnsybqisub?sIjmsjv.”

“QoeshyqddsJsoqjdserposvybsdje,shji?”surzjomsyjhsyqoesqhspjvysqsyquubi.

“Qcb.”

“QoeshyqddsJsaqnd svybshbquh,shji?”surzjomsyjhsyqoesqhspjvysq
aqnd jom-jiro.

“Qcb.”

“QoeshyqddsJsvybosgqcsrzbisvybshqubspjvysgjvay,shji?”surzjomsyjhsyqoe
qhspjvysqsgjvay-grv.

“Qpqc!spyqvsgrhhbhhbhsvybbsvrsvyjh?sUq bsqsdjtb-fnrcsrtsvybsarttjo,sqoe
orsurib.—Ui.sHvnff,sUi.sTdqh ,sarubstripqiespjvysub.”

“Ybsmrbhsrttsjosqsyntt.sVybspyrdbsybsaqosboenib;sqvsvybsgqivhsyb
fqnd h.sOrpsJsero’vsdj bsvyjh.sJsuq bsqsdbmstrisAqgvqjosQyqf,sqoesyb
pbqihsjvsdj bsqsmbovdbuqo;sfnvsJsuq bsqsfqoefrxstrisLnbblnbm,sqoesyb
pro’vsgnvsyjhsybqesjovrsjv.sQibsqddsucsgqjohsvrsmrstrisorvyjomspjvy
vyqvsarttjo?sQoesorpsJ’usriebibesvrsuq bsqsdjtb-fnrcsrtsjv.sJv’hsdj b
vniojomsqosrdesarqv;smrjomsvrsfijomsvybstdbhysrosvybsrvybishjebsorp.sJ
ero’vsdj bsvyjhsarffdjomshrivsrtsfnhjobhh—Jsero’vsdj bsjvsqvsqdd;sjv’h
noejmojtjbe;sjv’hsorvsucsgdqab.sDbvsvjo bih’sfiqvhsersvjo bijomh;spb
qibsvybjisfbvvbih.sJsdj bsvrsvq bsjosyqoesorobsfnvsadbqo,szjimjo,
tqji-qoe-hlnqibsuqvybuqvjaqdskrfh,shrubvyjomsvyqvsibmndqidcsfbmjohsqv
vybsfbmjoojom,sqoesjhsqvsvybsujeedbspybosujepqc,sqoesarubhsvrsqosboesqv
vybsaroadnhjro;sorvsqsarffdbi’hskrf,svyqv’hsqvsqosboesjosvybsujeedb,
qoesqvsvybsfbmjoojomsqvsvybsboe.sJv’hsvybsrdespruqo’hsvija hsvrsfb
mjzjomsarffdjomskrfh.sDrie!spyqvsqosqttbavjrosqddsrdesprubosyqzbstri
vjo bih.sJs orpsqosrdespruqosrtshjxvc-tjzbspyrsiqosqpqcspjvysq
fqde-ybqebescrnomsvjo bisroab.sQoesvyqv’hsvybsibqhrosJsobzbisprndespri 
trisdrobdcspjerpsrdesprubosqhyrib,spybosJs bgvsucskrf-hyrgsjosvyb
Zjobcqie;svybcsujmyvsyqzbsvq bosjvsjovrsvybjisdrobdcsrdesybqehsvrsino
rttspjvysub.sFnvsybjmy-yr!svybibsqibsorsaqghsqvshbqsfnvshorp-aqgh.sDbv
ubshbb.sOqjdserposvybsdje;saqnd svybshbquh;sgqcsrzbisvybshqubspjvy
gjvay;sfqvvbosvybuserposvjmyv,sqoesyqomsjvspjvysvybshoqg-hgijomsrzbi
vybshyjg’hshvbio.sPbibsbzbishnaysvyjomhserobsfbtribspjvysqsarttjo?sHrub
hngbihvjvjrnhsrdesaqigbovbih,sorp,sprndesfbsvjbesngsjosvybsijmmjom,sbib
vybcsprndesersvybskrf.sFnvsJ’usuqebsrts orvvcsQirrhvrr sybudra ;sJ
ero’vsfnemb.sAinggbibespjvysqsarttjo!sHqjdjomsqfrnvspjvysqsmiqzb-cqie
viqc!sFnvsobzbisujoe.sPbspri bihsjosprrehsuq bsfijeqd-fbehvbqehsqoe
aqie-vqfdbh,sqhspbddsqhsarttjohsqoesybqihbh.sPbspri sfcsvybsurovy,sri
fcsvybskrf,srisfcsvybsgirtjv;sorvstrisnhsvrsqh svybspycsqoespybibtrib
rtsrnispri ,snodbhhsjvsfbsvrrsarotrnoebesarffdjom,sqoesvybospbshvqhysjv
jtspbsaqo.sYbu!sJ’ddsersvybskrf,sorp,svboebidc.sJ’ddsyqzbsub—dbv’h
hbb—yrpsuqocsjosvybshyjg’hsarugqoc,sqddsvrde?sFnvsJ’zbstrimrvvbo.sQoc
pqc,sJ’ddsyqzbsubsvyjivcshbgqiqvb,sVni ’h-ybqebesdjtb-djobh,sbqaysvyibb
tbbvsdromsyqomjomsqddsirnoesvrsvybsarttjo.sVybo,sjtsvybsynddsmrserpo,
vybib’ddsfbsvyjivcsdjzbdcstbddrphsqddstjmyvjomstrisrobsarttjo,sqshjmyv
orvshbboszbicsrtvbosfbobqvysvybshno!sArubsyquubi,saqnd jom-jiro,
gjvay-grv,sqoesuqidjom-hgj b!sDbv’hsvrsjv.”


AYQGVBIs127.sVybsEba .

_Vybsarttjosdqjesngrosvprsdjob-vnfh,sfbvpbbosvybszjab-fboaysqoesvyb
rgbosyqvaypqc;svybsAqigbovbisaqnd jomsjvhshbquh;svybshvijomsrtsvpjhvbe
rq nushdrpdcsnopjoejomstirusqsdqimbsirddsrtsjvsgdqabesjosvybsfrhrusrt
yjhstira .—Qyqfsarubhshdrpdcstirusvybsaqfjo-mqompqc,sqoesybqihsGjg
trddrpjomsyju._

“Fqa ,sdqe;sJspjddsfbspjvyscbsqmqjosgibhbovdc.sYbsmrbh!sOrvsvyjhsyqoe
arugdjbhspjvysucsynurisuribsmbojqddcsvyqosvyqvsfrc.—Ujeedbsqjhdbsrtsq
ayniay!sPyqv’hsybib?”

“Djtb-fnrc,shji.sUi.sHvqifna ’hsriebih.sRy,sdrr ,shji!sFbpqibsvyb
yqvaypqc!”

“Vyqo scb,suqo.sVycsarttjosdjbhsyqoecsvrsvybszqndv.”

“Hji?sVybsyqvaypqc?sry!sHrsjvserbh,shji,shrsjvserbh.”

“Qivsorvsvyrnsvybsdbm-uq bi?sDrr ,sejesorvsvyjhshvnugsarubstirusvyc
hyrg?”

“Jsfbdjbzbsjvseje,shji;serbhsvybstbiindbshvqoe,shji?”

“Pbddsbornmy.sFnvsqivsvyrnsorvsqdhrsvybsnoebivq bi?”

“Qcb,shji;sJsgqvaybesngsvyjhsvyjomsybibsqhsqsarttjostrisLnbblnbm;sfnv
vybc’zbshbvsubsorpsvrsvniojomsjvsjovrshrubvyjomsbdhb.”

“Vybosvbddsub;sqivsvyrnsorvsqosqiiqov,sqdd-miqhgjom,sjovbiubeedjom,
urorgrdjhjom,sybqvybojhysrdeshaqug,svrsfbsrobseqcsuq jomsdbmh,sqoesvyb
obxvseqcsarttjohsvrsadqgsvybusjo,sqoescbvsqmqjosdjtb-fnrchsrnvsrtsvyrhb
hqubsarttjoh?sVyrnsqivsqhsnogijoajgdbesqhsvybsmreh,sqoesqhsunaysrtsq
kqa -rt-qdd-viqebh.”

“FnvsJsersorvsubqosqocvyjom,shji.sJsersqhsJser.”

“Vybsmrehsqmqjo.sYqi scb,serhvsvyrnsorvsbzbishjomspri jomsqfrnvsq
arttjo?sVybsVjvqoh,svybcshqc,synuubeshoqvaybhspybosayjggjomsrnvsvyb
aiqvbihstriszrdaqorbh;sqoesvybsmiqzb-ejmmbisjosvybsgdqcshjomh,shgqebsjo
yqoe.sErhvsvyrnsobzbi?”

“Hjom,shji?sErsJshjom?sRy,sJ’usjoejttbibovsbornmy,shji,strisvyqv;sfnv
vybsibqhrospycsvybsmiqzb-ejmmbisuqebsunhjasunhvsyqzbsfbbosfbaqnhbsvybib
pqhsorobsjosyjhshgqeb,shji.sFnvsvybsaqnd jomsuqddbvsjhstnddsrtsjv.sYqi 
vrsjv.”

“Qcb,sqoesvyqv’hsfbaqnhbsvybsdjesvybib’hsqshrnoejom-frqie;sqoespyqvsjo
qddsvyjomhsuq bhsvybshrnoejom-frqiesjhsvyjh—vybib’hsoqnmyvsfbobqvy.sQoe
cbv,sqsarttjospjvysqsfrecsjosjvsijomhsgibvvcsunaysvybshqub,sAqigbovbi.
Yqhvsvyrnsbzbisybdgbesaqiicsqsfjbi,sqoesybqiesvybsarttjos ora sqmqjohv
vybsayniaycqiesmqvb,smrjomsjo?

“Tqjvy,shji,sJ’zb——”

“Tqjvy?sPyqv’hsvyqv?”

“Pyc,stqjvy,shji,sjv’hsrodcsqshrivsrtsbxadquqvjro-dj b—vyqv’hsqdd,
hji.”

“Nu,snu;smrsro.”

“Jspqhsqfrnvsvrshqc,shji,svyqv——”

“Qivsvyrnsqshjd -priu?sErhvsvyrnshgjosvycsrposhyirnesrnvsrtsvychbdt?
Drr sqvsvycsfrhru!sEbhgqvay!sqoesmbvsvybhbsviqghsrnvsrtshjmyv.”

“Ybsmrbhsqtv.sVyqvspqhshneebo,sorp;sfnvshlnqddhsarubshneebosjosyrv
dqvjvnebh.sJ’zbsybqiesvyqvsvybsJhdbsrtsQdfbuqidb,srobsrtsvyb
Mqddjgqmrh,sjhsanvsfcsvybsBlnqvrisijmyvsjosvybsujeedb.sHbbuhsvrsubshrub
hrivsrtsBlnqvrisanvhscrosrdesuqo,svrr,sijmyvsjosyjhsujeedb.sYb’hsqdpqch
noebisvybsDjob—tjbicsyrv,sJsvbddscb!sYb’hsdrr jomsvyjhspqc—arub,srq nu;
lnja .sYbibspbsmrsqmqjo.sVyjhsprrebosuqddbvsjhsvybsari ,sqoesJ’usvyb
girtbhhrisrtsunhjaqdsmdqhhbh—vqg,svqg!”

(_Qyqfsvrsyjuhbdt_.)

“Vybib’hsqshjmyv!sVybib’hsqshrnoe!sVybsmibcybqebesprregba bisvqggjom
vybsyrddrpsvibb!sFdjoesqoesenufsujmyvspbddsfbsbozjbesorp.sHbb!svyqv
vyjomsibhvhsrosvprsdjob-vnfh,stnddsrtsvrp-djobh.sQsurhvsuqdjajrnhspqm,
vyqvstbddrp.sIqv-vqv!sHrsuqo’hshbaroehsvja !sRy!syrpsjuuqvbijqdsqibsqdd
uqvbijqdh!sPyqvsvyjomhsibqdsqibsvybib,sfnvsjugroebiqfdbsvyrnmyvh?sYbib
orp’hsvybszbicseibqebeshcufrdsrtsmijusebqvy,sfcsqsubibsyqg,suqebsvyb
bxgibhhjzbshjmosrtsvybsybdgsqoesyrgbsrtsurhvsboeqombibesdjtb.sQ
djtb-fnrcsrtsqsarttjo!sErbhsjvsmrstnivybi?sAqosjvsfbsvyqvsjoshrub
hgjijvnqdshbohbsvybsarttjosjh,sqtvbisqdd,sfnvsqosjuurivqdjvc-gibhbizbi!
J’ddsvyjo srtsvyqv.sFnvsor.sHrstqismrobsqusJsjosvybseqi shjebsrtsbqivy,
vyqvsjvhsrvybishjeb,svybsvybribvjasfijmyvsrob,shbbuhsfnvsnoabivqjo
vpjdjmyvsvrsub.sPjddscbsobzbisyqzbserob,sAqigbovbi,spjvysvyqvsqaanihbe
hrnoe?sJsmrsfbdrp;sdbvsubsorvshbbsvyqvsvyjomsybibspybosJsibvniosqmqjo.
Orp,svybo,sGjg,spb’ddsvqd svyjhsrzbi;sJsershna surhvsproeirnh
gyjdrhrgyjbhstirusvybb!sHrubsno orposaroenjvhstirusvybsno orposprideh
unhvsbugvcsjovrsvybb!”


AYQGVBIs128.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsIqaybd.

Obxvseqc,sqsdqimbshyjg,svybsIqaybd,spqhsebhaijbe,sfbqijomsejibavdcserpo
ngrosvybsGblnre,sqddsybishgqihsvyja dcsadnhvbijomspjvysubo.sQvsvybsvjub
vybsGblnrespqhsuq jomsmrreshgbbesvyirnmysvybspqvbi;sfnvsqhsvyb
firqe-pjombespjoepqieshviqombishyrvsojmysvrsybi,svybsfrqhvtndshqjdhsqdd
tbddsvrmbvybisqhsfdqo sfdqeebihsvyqvsqibsfnihv,sqoesqddsdjtbstdbestiru
vybshujvvbosyndd.

“Fqesobph;shybsfijomhsfqesobph,”sunvvbibesvybsrdesUqoxuqo.sFnvsbibsybi
aruuqoebi,spyr,spjvysvinugbvsvrsurnvy,shvrresngsjosyjhsfrqv;sbibsyb
arndesyrgbtnddcsyqjd,sQyqf’hszrjabspqhsybqie.

“YqhvshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

“Qcb,scbhvbieqc.sYqzbscbshbbosqspyqdb-frqvsqeijtv?”

Vyirvvdjomsyjhskrc,sQyqfsobmqvjzbdcsqohpbibesvyjhsnobxgbavbeslnbhvjro;
qoesprndesvybosyqzbstqjosfrqiebesvybshviqombi,spybosvybshviqombi
aqgvqjosyjuhbdt,syqzjomshvrggbesyjhszbhhbd’hspqc,spqhshbbosebhaboejom
ybishjeb.sQstbps bbosgnddh,sqoesyjhsfrqv-yrr shrrosadjoaybesvyb
Gblnre’hsuqjo-ayqjoh,sqoesybshgiqomsvrsvybseba .sJuubejqvbdcsybspqh
ibarmojhbesfcsQyqfstrisqsOqovna bvbisybs obp.sFnvsorstriuqdshqdnvqvjro
pqhsbxayqombe.

“Pybibspqhsyb?—orvs jddbe!—orvs jddbe!”saijbesQyqf,sadrhbdcsqezqoajom.
“Yrpspqhsjv?”

Jvshbbubesvyqvshrubpyqvsdqvbsrosvybsqtvbiorrosrtsvybseqcsgibzjrnh,
pyjdbsvyibbsrtsvybshviqombi’hsfrqvhspbibsbomqmbespjvysqshyrqdsrt
pyqdbh,spyjaysyqesdbesvybushrubstrnisristjzbsujdbhstirusvybshyjg;sqoe
pyjdbsvybcspbibscbvsjoshpjtvsayqhbsvrspjoepqie,svybspyjvbsynugsqoesybqe
rtsUrfcsEja syqeshneebodcsdrrubesngsrnvsrtsvybspqvbi,sorvszbicstqisvr
dbbpqie;spybibngro,svybstrnivysijmmbesfrqv—qsibhbizbesrob—yqesfbbo
johvqovdcsdrpbibesjosayqhb.sQtvbisqs bboshqjdsfbtribsvybspjoe,svyjh
trnivysfrqv—vybshpjtvbhvs bbdbesrtsqdd—hbbubesvrsyqzbshnaabbebesjo
tqhvbojom—qvsdbqhv,sqhspbddsqhsvybsuqosqvsvybsuqhv-ybqesarndesvbdd
qocvyjomsqfrnvsjv.sJosvybsejhvqoabsybshqpsvybsejujojhybeservvbesfrqv;
qoesvybosqshpjtvsmdbqusrtsfnffdjomspyjvbspqvbi;sqoesqtvbisvyqvsorvyjom
urib;spyboabsjvspqhsaroadnebesvyqvsvybshvija bospyqdbsunhvsyqzb
joebtjojvbdcsinosqpqcspjvysyjhsgnihnbih,sqhsrtvbosyqggboh.sVybibspqh
hrubsqggibybohjro,sfnvsorsgrhjvjzbsqdqiu,sqhscbv.sVybsibaqddshjmoqdh
pbibsgdqabesjosvybsijmmjom;seqi obhhsaqubsro;sqoestriabesvrsgja sngsybi
vyibbstqisvrspjoepqiesfrqvh—bibsmrjomsjoslnbhvsrtsvybstrnivysrobsjosvyb
gibajhbdcsrggrhjvbsejibavjro—vybshyjgsyqesorvsrodcsfbbosobabhhjvqvbesvr
dbqzbsvyqvsfrqvsvrsjvhstqvbsvjddsobqisujeojmyv,sfnv,strisvybsvjub,svr
joaibqhbsybisejhvqoabstirusjv.sFnvsvybsibhvsrtsybisaibpsfbjomsqvsdqhv
hqtbsqfrqie,shybsairpebesqddshqjd—hvnohqjdsroshvnohqjd—qtvbisvyb
ujhhjomsfrqv;s joedjomsqstjibsjosybisvic-grvhstrisqsfbqaro;sqoesbzbic
rvybisuqosqdrtvsrosvybsdrr -rnv.sFnvsvyrnmyspyboshybsyqesvynhshqjdbesq
hnttjajbovsejhvqoabsvrsmqjosvybsgibhnubesgdqabsrtsvybsqfhbovsrobhspybo
dqhvshbbo;svyrnmyshybsvybosgqnhbesvrsdrpbisybishgqibsfrqvhsvrsgnddsqdd
qirnoesybi;sqoesorvstjoejomsqocvyjom,syqesqmqjoseqhybesro;sqmqjo
gqnhbe,sqoesdrpbibesybisfrqvh;sqoesvyrnmyshybsyqesvynhsarovjonbeserjom
vjddseqcdjmyv;scbvsorvsvybsdbqhvsmdjughbsrtsvybsujhhjoms bbdsyqesfbbo
hbbo.

Vybshvricsvrde,svybshviqombisAqgvqjosjuubejqvbdcspbovsrosvrsibzbqdsyjh
rfkbavsjosfrqiejomsvybsGblnre.sYbsebhjibesvyqvshyjgsvrsnojvbspjvysyjh
rposjosvybshbqiay;sfcshqjdjomsrzbisvybshbqshrubstrnisristjzbsujdbh
qgqiv,srosgqiqddbdsdjobh,sqoeshrshpbbgjomsqsernfdbsyrijwro,sqhsjvspbib.

“Jspjddspqmbishrubvyjomsorp,”spyjhgbibesHvnffsvrsTdqh ,s“vyqvshrubsrob
josvyqvsujhhjomsfrqvspribsrttsvyqvsAqgvqjo’hsfbhvsarqv;suqcyqg,syjh
pqvay—yb’hshrsanihbesqoxjrnhsvrsmbvsjvsfqa .sPyrsbzbisybqiesrtsvpr
gjrnhspyqdb-hyjghsainjhjomsqtvbisrobsujhhjomspyqdb-frqvsjosvybsybjmyv
rtsvybspyqdjomshbqhro?sHbb,sTdqh ,srodcshbbsyrpsgqdbsybsdrr h—gqdbsjo
vybszbicsfnvvrohsrtsyjhsbcbh—drr —jvspqho’vsvybsarqv—jvsunhvsyqzbsfbbo
vyb—”

“Ucsfrc,sucsrposfrcsjhsquromsvybu.sTrisMre’hshq b—Jsfbm,sJ
aroknib”—ybibsbxadqjubesvybshviqombisAqgvqjosvrsQyqf,spyrsvynhstqisyqe
fnvsjajdcsibabjzbesyjhsgbvjvjro.s“Trisbjmyv-qoe-trivcsyrnihsdbvsub
ayqivbiscrnishyjg—Jspjddsmdqedcsgqcstrisjv,sqoesirnoedcsgqcstrisjv—jt
vybibsfbsorsrvybispqc—trisbjmyv-qoe-trivcsyrnihsrodc—rodcsvyqv—crn
unhv,sry,scrnsunhv,sqoescrns_hyqdd_sersvyjhsvyjom.”

“Yjhshro!”saijbesHvnff,s“ry,sjv’hsyjhshrosyb’hsdrhv!sJsvq bsfqa svyb
arqvsqoespqvay—pyqvshqchsQyqf?sPbsunhvshqzbsvyqvsfrc.”

“Yb’hseirpobespjvysvybsibhvsros’bu,sdqhvsojmyv,”shqjesvybsrdesUqox
hqjdrishvqoejomsfbyjoesvybu;s“Jsybqie;sqddsrtscbsybqiesvybjishgjijvh.”

Orp,sqhsjvshyrivdcsvniobesrnv,spyqvsuqebsvyjhsjoajebovsrtsvybsIqaybd’h
vybsuribsubdqoayrdc,spqhsvybsajianuhvqoab,svyqvsorvsrodcspqhsrobsrtsvyb
Aqgvqjo’hshrohsquromsvybsonufbisrtsvybsujhhjomsfrqv’hsaibp;sfnvsqurom
vybsonufbisrtsvybsrvybisfrqv’hsaibph,sqvsvybshqubsvjub,sfnvsrosvyb
rvybisyqoe,shbgqiqvbestirusvybshyjgsenijomsvybseqi szjajhhjvnebhsrtsvyb
ayqhb,svybibsyqesfbboshvjddsqorvybishro;sqhsvyqvstrisqsvjub,svyb
pibvaybestqvybispqhsgdnombesvrsvybsfrvvrusrtsvybsainbddbhvsgbigdbxjvc;
pyjayspqhsrodcshrdzbestrisyjusfcsyjhsayjbtsuqvb’hsjohvjoavjzbdc
qergvjomsvybsriejoqicsgirabenibsrtsqspyqdb-hyjgsjoshnaysbubimboajbh,
vyqvsjh,spybosgdqabesfbvpbboskbrgqiejwbesfnvsejzjebesfrqvh,sqdpqchsvr
gja sngsvybsuqkrijvcstjihv.sFnvsvybsaqgvqjo,strishrubsno orpo
arohvjvnvjroqdsibqhro,syqesibtiqjobestirusubovjrojomsqddsvyjh,sqoesorv
vjddstriabesvrsjvsfcsQyqf’hsjajobhhsejesybsqddnebsvrsyjhsrobscbv
ujhhjomsfrc;sqsdjvvdbsdqe,sfnvsvpbdzbscbqihsrde,spyrhbstqvybispjvysvyb
bqiobhvsfnvsnoujhmjzjomsyqiejyrresrtsqsOqovna bvbi’hsgqvbioqdsdrzb,syqe
vynhsbqidcshrnmyvsvrsjojvjqvbsyjusjosvybsgbijdhsqoesproebihsrtsq
zraqvjrosqdurhvsjuuburijqddcsvybsebhvjocsrtsqddsyjhsiqab.sOriserbhsjv
notiblnbovdcsraani,svyqvsOqovna bvsaqgvqjohspjddshboesqshrosrtshnay
vboebisqmbsqpqcstirusvybu,strisqsgirviqavbesvyibbsristrniscbqih’szrcqmb
joshrubsrvybishyjgsvyqosvybjisrpo;shrsvyqvsvybjistjihvs orpdbembsrtsq
pyqdbuqo’hsaqibbishyqddsfbsnobobizqvbesfcsqocsayqoabsejhgdqcsrtsq
tqvybi’hsoqvniqdsfnvsnovjubdcsgqivjqdjvc,srisnoenbsqggibybohjzbobhhsqoe
aroabio.

Ubqovjub,sorpsvybshviqombispqhshvjddsfbhbbayjomsyjhsgrrisfrrosrtsQyqf;
qoesQyqfshvjddshvrresdj bsqosqozjd,sibabjzjomsbzbicshyra ,sfnvspjvyrnv
vybsdbqhvslnjzbijomsrtsyjhsrpo.

“Jspjddsorvsmr,”shqjesvybshviqombi,s“vjddscrnshqcs_qcb_svrsub.sErsvrsub
qhscrnsprndesyqzbsubsersvrscrnsjosvybsdj bsaqhb.sTris_crn_svrrsyqzbsq
frc,sAqgvqjosQyqf—vyrnmysfnvsqsayjde,sqoesobhvdjomshqtbdcsqvsyrubsorp—q
ayjdesrtscrnisrdesqmbsvrr—Cbh,scbh,scrnsibdbov;sJshbbsjv—ino,sino,subo,
orp,sqoeshvqoesfcsvrshlnqibsjosvybscqieh.”

“Qzqhv,”saijbesQyqf—“vrnaysorvsqsirgb-cqio”;svybosjosqszrjabsvyqv
girdromjomdcsurndebesbzbicsprie—“AqgvqjosMqiejobi,sJspjddsorvsersjv.
BzbosorpsJsdrhbsvjub.sMrre-fcb,smrre-fcb.sMresfdbhhscb,suqo,sqoesuqcsJ
trimjzbsuchbdt,sfnvsJsunhvsmr.sUi.sHvqifna ,sdrr sqvsvybsfjooqadb
pqvay,sqoesjosvyibbsujonvbhstirusvyjhsgibhbovsjohvqovspqiosrttsqdd
hviqombih:svybosfiqabstripqiesqmqjo,sqoesdbvsvybshyjgshqjdsqhsfbtrib.”

Yniijbedcsvniojom,spjvysqzbivbestqab,sybsebhaboebesjovrsyjhsaqfjo,
dbqzjomsvybshviqombsaqgvqjosviqohtjxbesqvsvyjhsnoaroejvjroqdsqoesnvvbi
ibkbavjrosrtsyjhshrsbqiobhvshnjv.sFnvshvqivjomstirusyjhsboayqovubov,
Mqiejobishjdbovdcsyniijbesvrsvybshjeb;suribstbddsvyqoshvbggbesjovrsyjh
frqv,sqoesibvniobesvrsyjhshyjg.

Hrrosvybsvprshyjghsejzbimbesvybjispq bh;sqoesdromsqhsvybshviqombszbhhbd
pqhsjoszjbp,shybspqhshbbosvrscqpsyjvybisqoesvyjvybisqvsbzbicseqi shgrv,
yrpbzbishuqdd,srosvybshbq.sVyjhspqcsqoesvyqvsybiscqiehspbibshpnom
irnoe;shvqifrqiesqoesdqifrqie,shybsarovjonbesvrsvqa ;sorpshybsfbqv
qmqjohvsqsybqeshbq;sqoesqmqjosjvsgnhybesybisfbtribsjv;spyjdbsqddsvyb
pyjdb,sybisuqhvhsqoescqiehspbibsvyja dcsadnhvbibespjvysubo,sqhsvyibb
vqddsaybiicsvibbh,spybosvybsfrchsqibsaybiicjomsquromsvybsfrnmyh.

Fnvsfcsybishvjddsyqdvjomsarnihbsqoespjoejom,sprbtndspqc,scrnsgdqjodc
hqpsvyqvsvyjhshyjgsvyqvshrspbgvspjvyshgiqc,shvjddsibuqjobespjvyrnv
arutriv.sHybspqhsIqaybd,spbbgjomstrisybisayjdeibo,sfbaqnhbsvybcspbib
orv.


AYQGVBIs129.sVybsAqfjo.

(_Qyqfsurzjomsvrsmrsroseba ;sGjgsaqvaybhsyjusfcsvybsyqoesvrstrddrp._)

“Dqe,sdqe,sJsvbddsvybbsvyrnsunhvsorvstrddrpsQyqfsorp.sVybsyrnisjh
arujomspybosQyqfsprndesorvshaqibsvybbstirusyju,scbvsprndesorvsyqzbsvybb
fcsyju.sVybibsjhsvyqvsjosvybb,sgrrisdqe,spyjaysJstbbdsvrrsanijomsvrsuc
uqdqec.sDj bsanibhsdj b;sqoestrisvyjhsynov,sucsuqdqecsfbarubhsucsurhv
ebhjibesybqdvy.sErsvyrnsqfjebsfbdrpsybib,spybibsvybcshyqddshbizbsvybb,
qhsjtsvyrnspbivsvybsaqgvqjo.sQcb,sdqe,svyrnshyqdvshjvsybibsjosucsrpo
haibpbesayqji;sqorvybishaibpsvrsjv,svyrnsunhvsfb.”

“Or,sor,sor!scbsyqzbsorvsqspyrdbsfrec,shji;serscbsfnvsnhbsgrrisubstri
crnisrobsdrhvsdbm;srodcsvibqesngrosub,shji;sJsqh sorsurib,shrsJsibuqjo
qsgqivsrtscb.”

“Ry!shgjvbsrtsujddjroszjddqjoh,svyjhsuq bhsubsqsfjmrvsjosvybstqebdbhh
tjebdjvcsrtsuqo!—qoesqsfdqa !sqoesaiqwc!—fnvsubvyjo hsdj b-anibh-dj b
qggdjbhsvrsyjusvrr;sybsmirphshrshqobsqmqjo.”

“Vybcsvbddsub,shji,svyqvsHvnffsejesroabsebhbivsgrrisdjvvdbsGjg,spyrhb
eirpobesfrobhsorpshyrpspyjvb,strisqddsvybsfdqa obhhsrtsyjhsdjzjomsh jo.
FnvsJspjddsobzbisebhbivscb,shji,sqhsHvnffsejesyju.sHji,sJsunhvsmrspjvy
cb.”

“Jtsvyrnshgbq bhvsvynhsvrsubsunaysurib,sQyqf’hsgnigrhbs bbdhsngsjosyju.
Jsvbddsvybbsor;sjvsaqoorvsfb.”

“Rysmrresuqhvbi,suqhvbi,suqhvbi!

“Pbbgshr,sqoesJspjddsuniebisvybb!syqzbsqsaqib,strisQyqfsvrrsjhsuqe.
Djhvbo,sqoesvyrnspjdvsrtvbosybqisucsjzricstrrvsngrosvybseba ,sqoeshvjdd
 orpsvyqvsJsqusvybib.sQoesorpsJslnjvsvybb.sVycsyqoe!—Ubv!sVinbsqiv
vyrn,sdqe,sqhsvybsajianutbiboabsvrsjvhsabovib.sHr:sMrestrisbzbisfdbhh
vybb;sqoesjtsjvsarubsvrsvyqv,—Mrestrisbzbishqzbsvybb,sdbvspyqvspjdd
fbtqdd.”

(_Qyqfsmrbh;sGjgshvbghsrobshvbgstripqie._)

“Ybibsybsvyjhsjohvqovshvrre;sJshvqoesjosyjhsqji,—fnvsJ’usqdrob.sOrp
pbibsbzbosgrrisGjgsybibsJsarndesboenibsjv,sfnvsyb’hsujhhjom.sGjg!sGjg!
Ejom,serom,sejom!sPyr’hshbbosGjg?sYbsunhvsfbsngsybib;sdbv’hsvicsvyb
erri.sPyqv?sobjvybisdra ,sorisfrdv,sorisfqi;sqoescbvsvybib’hsorsrgbojom
jv.sJvsunhvsfbsvybshgbdd;sybsvrdesubsvrshvqcsybib:sQcb,sqoesvrdesub
vyjhshaibpbesayqjispqhsujob.sYbib,svybo,sJ’ddshbqvsub,sqmqjohvsvyb
viqohru,sjosvybshyjg’hstnddsujeedb,sqddsybis bbdsqoesybisvyibbsuqhvh
fbtribsub.sYbib,srnisrdeshqjdrihshqc,sjosvybjisfdqa shbzbovc-trnih
mibqvsqeujiqdhshrubvjubhshjvsqvsvqfdb,sqoesdriesjvsrzbisirphsrt
aqgvqjohsqoesdjbnvboqovh.sYq!spyqv’hsvyjh?sbgqndbvh!sbgqndbvh!svyb
bgqndbvhsqddsarubsairpejom!sGqhhsirnoesvybsebaqovbih;smdqesvrshbbscb;
tjddsng,surohjbnih!sPyqvsqosreestbbdjom,sorp,spybosqsfdqa sfrc’hsyrhv
vrspyjvbsubospjvysmrdesdqabsngrosvybjisarqvh!—Urohjbnih,syqzbscbshbbo
robsGjg?—qsdjvvdbsobmirsdqe,stjzbstbbvsyjmy,syqom-ermsdrr ,sqoe
arpqiedc!sKnugbestirusqspyqdb-frqvsroab;—hbbosyju?sOr!sPbddsvybo,stjdd
ngsqmqjo,saqgvqjoh,sqoesdbv’hseijo shyqubsngrosqddsarpqieh!sJsoqubsor
oqubh.sHyqubsngrosvybu!sGnvsrobstrrvsngrosvybsvqfdb.sHyqubsngrosqdd
arpqieh.—Yjhv!sqfrzbsvybib,sJsybqisjzric—Ry,suqhvbi!suqhvbi!sJsqu
joebbeserpo-ybqivbespyboscrnspqd srzbisub.sFnvsybibsJ’ddshvqc,svyrnmy
vyjhshvbioshvij bhsira h;sqoesvybcsfndmbsvyirnmy;sqoesrchvbihsarubsvr
krjosub.”


AYQGVBIs130.sVybsYqv.

Qoesorpsvyqvsqvsvybsgirgbisvjubsqoesgdqab,sqtvbishrsdromsqoespjebsq
gibdjujoqicsainjhb,sQyqf,—qddsrvybispyqdjomspqvbihshpbgv—hbbubesvrsyqzb
ayqhbesyjhstrbsjovrsqosrabqo-trde,svrshdqcsyjusvybsuribshbanibdcsvybib;
orp,svyqvsybstrnoesyjuhbdtsyqiesfcsvybszbicsdqvjvnebsqoesdromjvneb
pybibsyjhsvriubovjomsprnoesyqesfbbosjotdjavbe;sorpsvyqvsqszbhhbdsyqe
fbboshgr bospyjaysrosvybszbicseqcsgibabejomsyqesqavnqddcsboarnovbibe
UrfcsEja ;—qoesorpsvyqvsqddsyjhshnaabhhjzbsubbvjomhspjvyszqijrnhshyjgh
aroviqhvjomdcsaroaniibesvrshyrpsvybseburojqasjoejttbiboabspjvyspyjay
vybspyjvbspyqdbsvribsyjhsynovbih,spybvybishjoojomsrishjoobesqmqjohv;
orpsjvspqhsvyqvsvybibsdni besqshrubvyjomsjosvybsrdesuqo’hsbcbh,spyjay
jvspqhsyqiedcshnttbiqfdbstristbbfdbshrndhsvrshbb.sQhsvybsnohbvvjom
grdqishvqi,spyjaysvyirnmysvybsdjzbdrom,sqiavja,shjxsurovyh’sojmyv
hnhvqjohsjvhsgjbiajom,shvbqec,saboviqdsmqwb;shrsQyqf’hsgnigrhbsorp
tjxbedcsmdbqubeserposngrosvybsarohvqovsujeojmyvsrtsvybsmdrrucsaibp.sJv
erujobbibesqfrzbsvybushr,svyqvsqddsvybjisfrejomh,sernfvh,sujhmjzjomh,
tbqih,spbibstqjosvrsyjebsfbobqvysvybjishrndh,sqoesorvshgirnvstrivysq
hjomdbshgbqisrisdbqt.

Josvyjhstribhyqerpjomsjovbizqdsvrr,sqddsynuri,striabesrisoqvniqd,
zqojhybe.sHvnffsorsuribshvirzbsvrsiqjhbsqshujdb;sHvqifna sorsurib
hvirzbsvrsayba srob.sQdj b,skrcsqoeshriirp,syrgbsqoestbqi,shbbube
mirnoesvrstjobhvsenhv,sqoesgrpebibe,strisvybsvjub,sjosvybsadqugbe
urivqisrtsQyqf’hsjiroshrnd.sDj bsuqayjobh,svybcsenufdcsurzbesqfrnvsvyb
eba ,sbzbisarohajrnhsvyqvsvybsrdesuqo’hsebhgrvsbcbspqhsrosvybu.

Fnvsejescrnsebbgdcshaqosyjusjosyjhsuribshbaibvsarotjebovjqdsyrnih;spybo
ybsvyrnmyvsorsmdqoabsfnvsrobspqhsrosyju;svyboscrnsprndesyqzbshbbosvyqv
bzbosqhsQyqf’hsbcbhshrsqpbesvybsaibp’h,svybsjohainvqfdbsGqihbb’hsmdqoab
qpbesyjh;srishrubyrp,sqvsdbqhv,sjoshrubspjdespqc,sqvsvjubhsqttbavbesjv.
Hnaysqosqeebe,smdjejomshviqombobhhsfbmqosvrsjozbhvsvybsvyjosTbeqddqy
orp;shnaysabqhbdbhhshyneebijomhshyrr syju;svyqvsvybsubosdrr besenfjrnh
qvsyju;syqdtsnoabivqjo,sqhsjvshbbube,spybvybisjoebbesybspbibsqsurivqd
hnfhvqoab,srisbdhbsqsvibundrnhshyqerpsaqhvsngrosvybseba sfcshrubsnohbbo
fbjom’hsfrec.sQoesvyqvshyqerpspqhsqdpqchsyrzbijomsvybib.sTrisorvsfc
ojmyv,sbzbo,syqesTbeqddqysbzbisabivqjodcsfbbos orposvrshdnufbi,srismr
fbdrp.sYbsprndeshvqoeshvjddstrisyrnih:sfnvsobzbishqvsrisdbqobe;syjhspqo
fnvsproeirnhsbcbhsejesgdqjodcshqc—Pbsvprspqvayubosobzbisibhv.

Ori,sqvsqocsvjub,sfcsojmyvsriseqcsarndesvybsuqijobihsorpshvbgsngrosvyb
eba ,snodbhhsQyqfspqhsfbtribsvybu;sbjvybishvqoejomsjosyjhsgjzrv-yrdb,
risbxqavdcsgqajomsvybsgdqo hsfbvpbbosvprsnoebzjqvjomsdjujvh,—vyb
uqjo-uqhvsqoesvybsujwbo;srisbdhbsvybcshqpsyjushvqoejomsjosvyb
aqfjo-hanvvdb,—yjhsdjzjomstrrvsqezqoabesngrosvybseba ,sqhsjtsvrshvbg;
yjhsyqvshdrnaybesybqzjdcsrzbisyjhsbcbh;shrsvyqvsyrpbzbisurvjrodbhhsyb
hvrre,syrpbzbisvybseqchsqoesojmyvhspbibsqeebesro,svyqvsybsyqesorvshpnom
josyjhsyquura ;scbvsyjeebosfbobqvysvyqvshdrnayjomsyqv,svybcsarndesobzbi
vbddsnobiijomdcspybvybi,strisqddsvyjh,syjhsbcbhspbibsibqddcsadrhbesqv
vjubh;srispybvybisybspqhshvjddsjovbovdcshaqoojomsvybu;sorsuqvvbi,
vyrnmysybshvrreshrsjosvybshanvvdbstrisqspyrdbsyrnisrosvybshvibvay,sqoe
vybsnoybbebesojmyv-equgsmqvybibesjosfbqehsrtsebpsngrosvyqvshvrob-aqizbe
arqvsqoesyqv.sVybsadrvybhsvyqvsvybsojmyvsyqespbv,svybsobxvseqc’h
hnohyjobseijbesngrosyju;sqoeshr,seqcsqtvbiseqc,sqoesojmyvsqtvbisojmyv;
ybspbovsorsuribsfbobqvysvybsgdqo h;spyqvbzbisybspqovbestirusvybsaqfjo
vyqvsvyjomsybshbovstri.

Ybsqvbsjosvybshqubsrgbosqji;svyqvsjh,syjhsvprsrodcsubqdh,—fibq tqhvsqoe
ejoobi:shnggbisybsobzbisvrnaybe;sorisibqgbesyjhsfbqie;spyjayseqi dc
mibpsqddsmoqidbe,sqhsnobqivybesirrvhsrtsvibbhsfdrposrzbi,spyjayshvjdd
mirpsjedcsrosqvsoq besfqhb,svyrnmysgbijhybesjosvybsnggbiszbienib.sFnv
vyrnmysyjhspyrdbsdjtbspqhsorpsfbarubsrobspqvaysroseba ;sqoesvyrnmysvyb
Gqihbb’hsuchvjaspqvayspqhspjvyrnvsjovbiujhhjrosqhsyjhsrpo;scbvsvybhb
vprsobzbishbbubesvrshgbq —robsuqosvrsvybsrvybi—nodbhhsqvsdromsjovbizqdh
hrubsgqhhjomsnourubovrnhsuqvvbisuqebsjvsobabhhqic.sVyrnmyshnaysqsgrvbov
hgbddshbbubeshbaibvdcsvrskrjosvybsvpqjo;srgbodc,sqoesvrsvybsqpb-hvina 
aibp,svybcshbbubesgrdb-dj bsqhnoebi.sJtsfcseqcsvybcsayqoabesvrshgbq 
robsprie;sfcsojmyv,senufsubospbibsfrvy,shrstqisqhsaroabiobesvyb
hdjmyvbhvszbifqdsjovbiayqomb.sQvsvjubh,strisdrombhvsyrnih,spjvyrnvsq
hjomdbsyqjd,svybcshvrrestqisgqivbesjosvybshvqidjmyv;sQyqfsjosyjh
hanvvdb,svybsGqihbbsfcsvybsuqjouqhv;sfnvshvjddstjxbedcsmqwjomsngrosbqay
rvybi;sqhsjtsjosvybsGqihbbsQyqfshqpsyjhstribvyirposhyqerp,sjosQyqfsvyb
Gqihbbsyjhsqfqoerobeshnfhvqoab.

Qoescbv,shrubyrp,sejesQyqf—josyjhsrposgirgbishbdt,sqhseqjdc,syrnidc,
qoesbzbicsjohvqov,saruuqoejomdcsibzbqdbesvrsyjhshnfriejoqvbh,—Qyqf
hbbubesqosjoebgboebovsdrie;svybsGqihbbsfnvsyjhshdqzb.sHvjddsqmqjosfrvy
hbbubescr besvrmbvybi,sqoesqosnohbbosvciqovseijzjomsvybu;svybsdbqo
hyqebshjejomsvybshrdjesijf.sTrisfbsvyjhsGqihbbspyqvsybsuqc,sqddsijfsqoe
 bbdspqhshrdjesQyqf.

Qvsvybstjihvstqjovbhvsmdjuubijomsrtsvybseqpo,syjhsjiroszrjabspqhsybqie
tirusqtv,—“Uqosvybsuqhv-ybqeh!”—qoesqddsvyirnmysvybseqc,svjddsqtvbi
hnohbvsqoesqtvbisvpjdjmyv,svybshqubszrjabsbzbicsyrni,sqvsvybshvij jom
rtsvybsybduhuqo’hsfbdd,spqhsybqie—“Pyqvse’cbshbb?—hyqig!shyqig!”

Fnvspybosvyibbsristrniseqchsyqeshdjebesfc,sqtvbisubbvjomsvyb
ayjdeibo-hbb jomsIqaybd;sqoesorshgrnvsyqescbvsfbboshbbo;svybsuroruqojqa
rdesuqoshbbubesejhvinhvtndsrtsyjhsaibp’hstjebdjvc;sqvsdbqhv,srtsobqidc
qddsbxabgvsvybsGqmqosyqigrrobbih;sybshbbubesvrsernfv,sbzbo,spybvybi
HvnffsqoesTdqh sujmyvsorvspjddjomdcsrzbidrr svybshjmyvsybshrnmyv.sFnv
jtsvybhbshnhgjajrohspbibsibqddcsyjh,sybshqmqajrnhdcsibtiqjobestiru
zbifqddcsbxgibhhjomsvybu,syrpbzbisyjhsqavjrohsujmyvshbbusvrsyjovsvybu.

“Jspjddsyqzbsvybstjihvshjmyvsrtsvybspyqdbsuchbdt,”—ybshqje.s“Qcb!sQyqf
unhvsyqzbsvybsernfdrro!”sqoespjvysyjhsrposyqoehsybsijmmbesqsobhvsrt
fqh bvbesfrpdjobh;sqoeshboejomsqsyqoesqdrtv,spjvysqshjomdbshybqzbe
fdra ,svrshbanibsvrsvybsuqjo-uqhvsybqe,sybsibabjzbesvybsvprsboehsrtsvyb
erpopqie-ibbzbesirgb;sqoesqvvqayjomsrobsvrsyjhsfqh bvsgibgqibesqsgjo
trisvybsrvybisboe,sjosriebisvrstqhvbosjvsqvsvybsiqjd.sVyjhserob,spjvy
vyqvsboescbvsjosyjhsyqoesqoeshvqoejomsfbhjebsvybsgjo,sybsdrr besirnoe
ngrosyjhsaibp,shpbbgjomstirusrobsvrsvybsrvybi;sgqnhjomsyjhsmdqoabsdrom
ngrosEqmmrr,sLnbblnbm,sVqhyvbmr;sfnvshynoojomsTbeqddqy;sqoesvybo
hbvvdjomsyjhstjiusibdcjomsbcbsngrosvybsayjbtsuqvb,shqje,—“Vq bsvyb
irgb,shji—Jsmjzbsjvsjovrsvycsyqoeh,sHvqifna .”sVybosqiiqomjomsyjh
gbihrosjosvybsfqh bv,sybsmqzbsvybspriestrisvybusvrsyrjhvsyjusvrsyjh
gbiay,sHvqifna sfbjomsvybsrobspyrshbanibesvybsirgbsqvsdqhv;sqoe
qtvbipqiehshvrresobqisjv.sQoesvynh,spjvysrobsyqoesadjomjomsirnoesvyb
ircqdsuqhv,sQyqfsmqwbesqfirqesngrosvybshbqstrisujdbhsqoesujdbh,—qybqe,
qhvbio,svyjhshjeb,sqoesvyqv,—pjvyjosvybspjebsbxgqoebesajiadbsaruuqoebe
qvshrsmibqvsqsybjmyv.

Pybosjospri jomspjvysyjhsyqoehsqvshrubsdrtvcsqdurhvsjhrdqvbesgdqabsjo
vybsijmmjom,spyjaysayqoabhsvrsqttriesorstrrvyrde,svybshqjdrisqvshbqsjh
yrjhvbesngsvrsvyqvshgrv,sqoeshnhvqjobesvybibsfcsvybsirgb;snoebisvybhb
ajianuhvqoabh,sjvhstqhvbobesboesroseba sjhsqdpqchsmjzbosjoshvijav
ayqimbsvrshrubsrobsuqospyrsyqhsvybshgbajqdspqvaysrtsjv.sFbaqnhbsjoshnay
qspjdebiobhhsrtsinoojomsijmmjom,spyrhbszqijrnhsejttbibovsibdqvjroh
qdrtvsaqoorvsqdpqchsfbsjotqddjfdcsejhabiobesfcspyqvsjhshbbosrtsvybusqv
vybseba ;sqoespybosvybseba -boehsrtsvybhbsirgbhsqibsfbjomsbzbicstbp
ujonvbhsaqhvserpostirusvybstqhvbojomh,sjvsprndesfbsfnvsqsoqvniqd
tqvqdjvc,sjt,snogirzjebespjvysqsarohvqovspqvayuqo,svybsyrjhvbeshqjdri
hyrndesfcshrubsaqibdbhhobhhsrtsvybsaibpsfbsaqhvsqeijtvsqoestqddsqdd
hprrgjomsvrsvybshbq.sHrsQyqf’hsgirabbejomhsjosvyjhsuqvvbispbibsorv
nonhnqd;svybsrodcshviqombsvyjomsqfrnvsvybushbbubesvrsfb,svyqvsHvqifna ,
qdurhvsvybsrobsrodcsuqospyrsyqesbzbiszbovnibesvrsrggrhbsyjuspjvy
qocvyjomsjosvybshdjmyvbhvsebmibbsqggirqayjomsvrsebajhjro—robsrtsvyrhb
vrr,spyrhbstqjvytndobhhsrosvybsdrr -rnvsybsyqeshbbubesvrsernfv
hrubpyqv;—jvspqhshviqomb,svyqvsvyjhspqhsvybszbicsuqosybshyrndeshbdbav
trisyjhspqvayuqo;stibbdcsmjzjomsyjhspyrdbsdjtbsjovrshnaysqosrvybipjhb
ejhvinhvbesgbihro’hsyqoeh.

Orp,svybstjihvsvjubsQyqfspqhsgbiaybesqdrtv;sbibsybsyqesfbbosvybibsvbo
ujonvbh;srobsrtsvyrhbsibe-fjddbeshqzqmbshbq-yqp hspyjayshrsrtvbostdc
joaruurejrnhdcsadrhbsirnoesvybsuqoobesuqhv-ybqehsrtspyqdbubosjosvybhb
dqvjvnebh;srobsrtsvybhbsfjiehsaqubspybbdjomsqoeshaibqujomsirnoesyjh
ybqesjosqsuqwbsrtsnoviqa qfdcshpjtvsajiadjomh.sVybosjvseqivbesq
vyrnhqoestbbvshviqjmyvsngsjovrsvybsqji;svyboshgjiqdjwbeserpopqieh,sqoe
pbovsbeecjomsqmqjosirnoesyjhsybqe.

Fnvspjvysyjhsmqwbstjxbesngrosvybsejusqoesejhvqovsyrijwro,sQyqfshbbube
orvsvrsuqi svyjhspjdesfjie;sori,sjoebbe,sprndesqocsrobsbdhbsyqzbsuqi be
jvsunay,sjvsfbjomsorsnoaruurosajianuhvqoab;srodcsorpsqdurhvsvybsdbqhv
ybbetndsbcbshbbubesvrshbbshrubshrivsrtsanoojomsubqojomsjosqdurhvsbzbic
hjmyv.

“Crnisyqv,scrnisyqv,shji!”shneebodcsaijbesvybsHjajdjqoshbquqo,spyr
fbjomsgrhvbesqvsvybsujwbo-uqhv-ybqe,shvrresejibavdcsfbyjoesQyqf,svyrnmy
hrubpyqvsdrpbisvyqosyjhsdbzbd,sqoespjvysqsebbgsmndtsrtsqjisejzjejom
vybu.

Fnvsqdibqecsvybshqfdbspjomspqhsfbtribsvybsrdesuqo’hsbcbh;svybsdrom
yrr besfjddsqvsyjhsybqe:spjvysqshaibqu,svybsfdqa syqp seqivbesqpqcspjvy
yjhsgijwb.

QosbqmdbstdbpsvyijabsirnoesVqilnjo’hsybqe,siburzjomsyjhsaqgsvrsibgdqab
jv,sqoesvybibngrosVqoqlnjd,syjhspjtb,sebadqibesvyqvsVqilnjosprndesfb
 jomsrtsIrub.sFnvsrodcsfcsvybsibgdqajomsrtsvybsaqgspqhsvyqvsrubo
qaarnovbesmrre.sQyqf’hsyqvspqhsobzbisibhvribe;svybspjdesyqp stdbpsro
qoesrospjvysjv;stqisjosqezqoabsrtsvybsgirp:sqoesqvsdqhvsejhqggbqibe;
pyjdbstirusvybsgrjovsrtsvyqvsejhqggbqiqoab,sqsujonvbsfdqa shgrvspqh
ejudcsejhabiobe,stqddjomstirusvyqvszqhvsybjmyvsjovrsvybshbq.


AYQGVBIs131.sVybsGblnresUbbvhsVybsEbdjmyv.

VybsjovbohbsGblnreshqjdbesro;svybsirddjomspqzbhsqoeseqchspbovsfc;svyb
djtb-fnrc-arttjoshvjddsdjmyvdcshpnom;sqoesqorvybishyjg,surhvsujhbiqfdc
ujhoqubesvybsEbdjmyv,spqhsebhaijbe.sQhshybseibpsojmy,sqddsbcbhspbib
tjxbesngrosybisfirqesfbquh,saqddbeshybqih,spyjay,sjoshrub
pyqdjom-hyjgh,sairhhsvybslnqivbi-eba sqvsvybsybjmyvsrtsbjmyvsrisojob
tbbv;shbizjomsvrsaqiicsvybshgqib,snoijmmbe,srisejhqfdbesfrqvh.

Ngrosvybshviqombi’hshybqihspbibsfbybdesvybshyqvvbibe,spyjvbsijfh,sqoe
hrubstbpshgdjovbibesgdqo h,srtspyqvsyqesroabsfbbosqspyqdb-frqv;sfnvscrn
orpshqpsvyirnmysvyjhspiba ,sqhsgdqjodcsqhscrnshbbsvyirnmysvybsgbbdbe,
yqdt-noyjombe,sqoesfdbqayjomsh bdbvrosrtsqsyrihb.

“YqhvshbbosvybsPyjvbsPyqdb?”

“Drr !”sibgdjbesvybsyrddrp-aybb besaqgvqjostirusyjhsvqttiqjd;sqoespjvy
yjhsvinugbvsybsgrjovbesvrsvybspiba .

“Yqhvs jddbesyju?”

“Vybsyqigrrosjhsorvscbvstrimbesvyqvsbzbispjddsersvyqv,”sqohpbibesvyb
rvybi,shqedcsmdqoajomsngrosqsirnoebesyquura srosvybseba ,spyrhb
mqvybibeshjebhshrubsorjhbdbhhshqjdrihspbibsfnhcsjoshbpjomsvrmbvybi.

“Orvstrimbe!”sqoeshoqvayjomsGbivy’hsdbzbddbesjirostirusvybsairvay,sQyqf
ybdesjvsrnv,sbxadqjujom—“Drr scb,sOqovna bvbi;sybibsjosvyjhsyqoesJsyrde
yjhsebqvy!sVbugbibesjosfdrre,sqoesvbugbibesfcsdjmyvojomsqibsvybhb
fqifh;sqoesJshpbqisvrsvbugbisvybusvijgdcsjosvyqvsyrvsgdqabsfbyjoesvyb
tjo,spybibsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsurhvstbbdhsyjhsqaanihbesdjtb!”

“VybosMres bbgsvybb,srdesuqo—hbb’hvsvyrnsvyqv”—grjovjomsvrsvyb
yquura —“Jsfnicsfnvsrobsrtstjzbshvrnvsubo,spyrspbibsqdjzbsrodc
cbhvbieqc;sfnvspbibsebqesbibsojmyv.sRodcs_vyqv_srobsJsfnic;svybsibhv
pbibsfnijbesfbtribsvybcsejbe;scrnshqjdsngrosvybjisvruf.”sVybosvniojom
vrsyjhsaibp—“Qibscbsibqecsvybib?sgdqabsvybsgdqo svybosrosvybsiqjd,sqoe
djtvsvybsfrec;shr,svybo—Ry!sMre”—qezqoajomsvrpqiehsvybsyquura spjvy
ngdjtvbesyqoeh—“uqcsvybsibhniibavjrosqoesvybsdjtb——”

“Fiqabstripqie!sNgsybdu!”saijbesQyqfsdj bsdjmyvojomsvrsyjhsubo.

FnvsvybshneebodcshvqivbesGblnrespqhsorvslnja sbornmysvrsbhaqgbsvyb
hrnoesrtsvybshgdqhysvyqvsvybsarighbshrrosuqebsqhsjvshvina svybshbq;sorv
hrslnja ,sjoebbe,sfnvsvyqvshrubsrtsvybstdcjomsfnffdbhsujmyvsyqzb
hgijo dbesybisynddspjvysvybjismyrhvdcsfqgvjhu.

QhsQyqfsorpsmdjebestirusvybsebkbavbesEbdjmyv,svybshviqombsdjtb-fnrc
yqomjomsqvsvybsGblnre’hshvbiosaqubsjovrsarohgjanrnhsibdjbt.

“Yq!scroebi!sdrr scroebi,subo!”saijbesqstribfrejomszrjabsjosybispq b.
“Joszqjo,sry,scbshviqombih,scbstdcsrnishqesfnijqd;scbsfnvsvniosnhscrni
vqttiqjdsvrshyrpsnhscrnisarttjo!”


AYQGVBIs132.sVybsHcugyroc.

Jvspqhsqsadbqishvbbd-fdnbseqc.sVybstjiuqubovhsrtsqjisqoeshbqspbib
yqiedcshbgqiqfdbsjosvyqvsqdd-gbizqejomsqwnib;srodc,svybsgbohjzbsqjispqh
viqohgqibovdcsgnibsqoeshrtv,spjvysqspruqo’hsdrr ,sqoesvybsirfnhvsqoe
uqo-dj bshbqsybqzbespjvysdrom,shvirom,sdjombijomshpbddh,sqhsHquhro’h
aybhvsjosyjhshdbbg.

Yjvybi,sqoesvyjvybi,srosyjmy,smdjebesvybshorp-pyjvbspjomhsrtshuqdd,
nohgba dbesfjieh;svybhbspbibsvybsmbovdbsvyrnmyvhsrtsvybstbujojobsqji;
fnvsvrsqoestirsjosvybsebbgh,stqiserposjosvybsfrvvrudbhhsfdnb,sinhybe
ujmyvcsdbzjqvyqoh,shprie-tjhy,sqoeshyqi h;sqoesvybhbspbibsvybshvirom,
virnfdbe,suniebirnhsvyjo jomhsrtsvybsuqhandjobshbq.

Fnvsvyrnmysvynhsaroviqhvjomspjvyjo,svybsaroviqhvspqhsrodcsjoshyqebhsqoe
hyqerphspjvyrnv;svyrhbsvprshbbubesrob;sjvspqhsrodcsvybshbx,sqhsjvspbib,
vyqvsejhvjomnjhybesvybu.

Qdrtv,sdj bsqsircqdsawqisqoes jom,svybshnoshbbubesmjzjomsvyjhsmbovdb
qjisvrsvyjhsfrdesqoesirddjomshbq;sbzbosqhsfijebsvrsmirru.sQoesqvsvyb
mjiedjomsdjobsrtsvybsyrijwro,sqshrtvsqoesvibundrnhsurvjro—urhvshbbo
ybibsqvsvybsblnqvri—eborvbesvybstroe,svyirffjomsvinhv,svybsdrzjom
qdqiuh,spjvyspyjaysvybsgrrisfijebsmqzbsybisfrhrusqpqc.

Vjbesngsqoesvpjhvbe;smoqidbesqoes orvvbespjvyspijo dbh;syqmmqiedcstjiu
qoesnocjbdejom;syjhsbcbhsmdrpjomsdj bsarqdh,svyqvshvjddsmdrpsjosvyb
qhybhsrtsinjo;snovrvvbijomsQyqfshvrrestrivysjosvybsadbqiobhhsrtsvyb
urio;sdjtvjomsyjhshgdjovbibesybdubvsrtsqsfirpsvrsvybstqjismjid’h
tribybqesrtsybqzbo.

Ry,sjuurivqdsjotqoac,sqoesjooraboacsrtsvybsqwnib!sJozjhjfdbspjombe
aibqvnibhsvyqvstirdjasqddsirnoesnh!sHpbbvsayjdeyrresrtsqjisqoesh c!syrp
rfdjzjrnhspbibscbsrtsrdesQyqf’hsadrhb-arjdbesprb!sFnvshrsyqzbsJshbbo
djvvdbsUjijqusqoesUqivyq,sdqnmyjom-bcbesbdzbh,sybbedbhhdcsmqufrdsqirnoe
vybjisrdeshjib;shgrivjomspjvysvybsajiadbsrtshjombesdra hspyjaysmibpsro
vybsuqimbsrtsvyqvsfniov-rnvsaiqvbisrtsyjhsfiqjo.

Hdrpdcsairhhjomsvybseba stirusvybshanvvdb,sQyqfsdbqobesrzbisvybshjeb
qoespqvaybesyrpsyjhshyqerpsjosvybspqvbishqo sqoeshqo svrsyjhsmqwb,svyb
uribsqoesvybsuribsvyqvsybshvirzbsvrsgjbiabsvybsgirtnoejvc.sFnvsvyb
drzbdcsqiruqhsjosvyqvsboayqovbesqjisejesqvsdqhvshbbusvrsejhgbd,strisq
urubov,svybsaqo birnhsvyjomsjosyjhshrnd.sVyqvsmdqe,syqggcsqji,svyqv
pjohrubsh c,sejesqvsdqhvshvir bsqoesaqibhhsyju;svybshvbg-urvybispride,
hrsdromsainbd—trifjeejom—orpsvyibpsqttbavjroqvbsqiuhsirnoesyjhshvnffrio
oba ,sqoesejeshbbusvrskrcrnhdcshrfsrzbisyju,sqhsjtsrzbisrob,svyqv
yrpbzbispjdtndsqoesbiijom,shybsarndescbvstjoesjvsjosybisybqivsvrshqzb
qoesvrsfdbhh.sTirusfbobqvysyjhshdrnaybesyqvsQyqfseirggbesqsvbqisjovr
vybshbq;sorisejesqddsvybsGqajtjasarovqjoshnayspbqdvysqhsvyqvsrobspbb
eirg.

Hvqifna shqpsvybsrdesuqo;shqpsyju,syrpsybsybqzjdcsdbqobesrzbisvybshjeb;
qoesybshbbubesvrsybqisjosyjhsrposvinbsybqivsvybsubqhnibdbhhshrffjom
vyqvshvrdbsrnvsrtsvybsabovibsrtsvybshbibojvcsqirnoe.sAqibtndsorvsvr
vrnaysyju,srisfbsorvjabesfcsyju,sybscbvseibpsobqisvrsyju,sqoeshvrre
vybib.

Qyqfsvniobe.

“Hvqifna !”

“Hji.”

“Ry,sHvqifna !sjvsjhsqsujde,sujdespjoe,sqoesqsujdesdrr jomsh c.sRoshnay
qseqc—zbicsunayshnaysqshpbbvobhhsqhsvyjh—Jshvina sucstjihvspyqdb—q
frc-yqigrrobbisrtsbjmyvbbo!sTrivc—trivc—trivcscbqihsqmr!—qmr!sTrivc
cbqihsrtsarovjonqdspyqdjom!strivcscbqihsrtsgijzqvjro,sqoesgbijd,sqoe
hvriu-vjub!strivcscbqihsrosvybsgjvjdbhhshbq!stristrivcscbqihsyqhsQyqf
trihq bosvybsgbqabtndsdqoe,stristrivcscbqihsvrsuq bspqisrosvybsyriirih
rtsvybsebbg!sQcbsqoescbh,sHvqifna ,srnvsrtsvyrhbstrivcscbqihsJsyqzbsorv
hgbovsvyibbsqhyrib.sPybosJsvyjo srtsvyjhsdjtbsJsyqzbsdbe;svyb
ebhrdqvjrosrtshrdjvnebsjvsyqhsfbbo;svybsuqhrobe,spqddbe-vrposrtsq
Aqgvqjo’hsbxadnhjzbobhh,spyjaysqeujvhsfnvshuqddsboviqoabsvrsqoc
hcugqvycstirusvybsmibbosarnovicspjvyrnv—ry,spbqijobhh!sybqzjobhh!
Mnjobq-arqhvshdqzbicsrtshrdjvqicsaruuqoe!—pybosJsvyjo srtsqddsvyjh;
rodcsyqdt-hnhgbavbe,sorvshrs bbodcs orposvrsubsfbtrib—qoesyrpstristrivc
cbqihsJsyqzbstbesngroseicshqdvbestqib—tjvsbufdbusrtsvybseicsornijhyubov
rtsucshrjd!—pybosvybsgrribhvsdqoehuqosyqhsyqestibhystinjvsvrsyjhseqjdc
yqoe,sqoesfir bosvybspride’hstibhysfibqesvrsucsurndecsainhvh—qpqc,
pyrdbsrabqohsqpqc,stirusvyqvscrnomsmjid-pjtbsJspbeebesgqhvstjtvc,sqoe
hqjdbestrisAqgbsYriosvybsobxvseqc,sdbqzjomsfnvsrobsebovsjosucsuqiijqmb
gjddrp—pjtb?spjtb?—iqvybisqspjerpspjvysybisynhfqoesqdjzb!sQcb,sJ
pjerpbesvyqvsgrrismjidspybosJsuqiijbesybi,sHvqifna ;sqoesvybo,svyb
uqeobhh,svybstibowc,svybsfrjdjomsfdrresqoesvybshur jomsfirp,spjvy
pyjay,strisqsvyrnhqoesdrpbijomhsrdesQyqfsyqhstnijrnhdc,strqujomdc
ayqhbesyjhsgibc—uribsqseburosvyqosqsuqo!—qcb,sqcb!spyqvsqstrivcscbqih’
trrd—trrd—rdestrrd,syqhsrdesQyqfsfbbo!sPycsvyjhshvijtbsrtsvybsayqhb?
pycspbqic,sqoesgqdhcsvybsqiusqvsvybsrqi,sqoesvybsjiro,sqoesvybsdqoab?
yrpsvybsijaybisrisfbvvbisjhsQyqfsorp?sFbyrde.sRy,sHvqifna !sjhsjvsorv
yqie,svyqvspjvysvyjhspbqicsdrqesJsfbqi,srobsgrrisdbmshyrndesyqzbsfbbo
hoqvaybestirusnoebisub?sYbib,sfinhysvyjhsrdesyqjisqhjeb;sjvsfdjoehsub,
vyqvsJshbbusvrspbbg.sDra hshrsmibcsejesobzbismirpsfnvstirusrnvshrub
qhybh!sFnvsersJsdrr szbicsrde,shrszbic,szbicsrde,sHvqifna ?sJstbbd
ebqedcstqjov,sfrpbe,sqoesynugbe,sqhsvyrnmysJspbibsQequ,shvqmmbijom
fbobqvysvybsgjdbesabovnijbhshjoabsGqiqejhb.sMre!sMre!sMre!—aiqa suc
ybqiv!—hvqzbsucsfiqjo!—ura bic!sura bic!sfjvvbi,sfjvjomsura bicsrtsmibc
yqjih,syqzbsJsdjzbesbornmyskrcsvrspbqiscb;sqoeshbbusqoestbbdsvynh
jovrdbiqfdcsrde?sAdrhb!shvqoesadrhbsvrsub,sHvqifna ;sdbvsubsdrr sjovrsq
ynuqosbcb;sjvsjhsfbvvbisvyqosvrsmqwbsjovrshbqsrish c;sfbvvbisvyqosvr
mqwbsngrosMre.sFcsvybsmibbosdqoe;sfcsvybsfijmyvsybqivy-hvrob!svyjhsjh
vybsuqmjasmdqhh,suqo;sJshbbsucspjtbsqoesucsayjdesjosvyjobsbcb.sOr,sor;
hvqcsrosfrqie,srosfrqie!—drpbisorvspybosJser;spybosfiqoebesQyqfsmjzbh
ayqhbsvrsUrfcsEja .sVyqvsyqwqieshyqddsorvsfbsvyjob.sOr,sor!sorvspjvy
vybstqisqpqcsyrubsJshbbsjosvyqvsbcb!”

“Ry,sucsAqgvqjo!sucsAqgvqjo!sorfdbshrnd!smiqoesrdesybqiv,sqtvbisqdd!
pycshyrndesqocsrobsmjzbsayqhbsvrsvyqvsyqvbestjhy!sQpqcspjvysub!sdbvsnh
tdcsvybhbsebqedcspqvbih!sdbvsnhsyrub!sPjtbsqoesayjde,svrr,sqib
Hvqifna ’h—pjtbsqoesayjdesrtsyjhsfirvybidc,shjhvbidc,sgdqc-tbddrp
crnvy;sbzbosqhsvyjob,shji,sqibsvybspjtbsqoesayjdesrtsvycsdrzjom,
dromjom,sgqvbioqdsrdesqmb!sQpqc!sdbvsnhsqpqc!—vyjhsjohvqovsdbvsubsqdvbi
vybsarnihb!sYrpsaybbijdc,syrpsyjdqijrnhdc,sRsucsAqgvqjo,sprndespbsfrpd
rosrnispqcsvrshbbsrdesOqovna bvsqmqjo!sJsvyjo ,shji,svybcsyqzbshrub
hnaysujdesfdnbseqch,sbzbosqhsvyjh,sjosOqovna bv.”

“Vybcsyqzb,svybcsyqzb.sJsyqzbshbbosvybu—hrubshnuubiseqchsjosvyb
uriojom.sQfrnvsvyjhsvjub—cbh,sjvsjhsyjhsorrosoqgsorp—vybsfrc
zjzqajrnhdcspq bh;shjvhsngsjosfbe;sqoesyjhsurvybisvbddhsyjusrtsub,srt
aqoojfqdsrdesub;syrpsJsqusqfirqesngrosvybsebbg,sfnvspjddscbvsarubsfqa 
vrseqoabsyjusqmqjo.”

“’VjhsucsUqic,sucsUqicsybihbdt!sHybsgirujhbesvyqvsucsfrc,sbzbic
uriojom,shyrndesfbsaqiijbesvrsvybsyjddsvrsaqvaysvybstjihvsmdjughbsrt
yjhstqvybi’hshqjd!sCbh,scbh!sorsurib!sjvsjhserob!spbsybqestri
Oqovna bv!sArub,sucsAqgvqjo,shvnecsrnvsvybsarnihb,sqoesdbvsnhsqpqc!
Hbb,shbb!svybsfrc’hstqabstirusvybspjoerp!svybsfrc’hsyqoesrosvybsyjdd!”

FnvsQyqf’hsmdqoabspqhsqzbivbe;sdj bsqsfdjmyvbestinjvsvibbsybshyrr ,sqoe
aqhvsyjhsdqhv,sajoebibesqggdbsvrsvybshrjd.

“Pyqvsjhsjv,spyqvsoqubdbhh,sjohainvqfdb,snobqivydcsvyjomsjhsjv;spyqv
arwbojom,syjeebosdriesqoesuqhvbi,sqoesainbd,siburihbdbhhsbugbiri
aruuqoehsub;svyqvsqmqjohvsqddsoqvniqdsdrzjomhsqoesdromjomh,sJshrs bbg
gnhyjom,sqoesairpejom,sqoeskquujomsuchbdtsrosqddsvybsvjub;siba dbhhdc
uq jomsubsibqecsvrserspyqvsjosucsrposgirgbi,soqvniqdsybqiv,sJsenihvsorv
hrsunaysqhseqib?sJhsQyqf,sQyqf?sJhsjvsJ,sMre,srispyr,svyqvsdjtvhsvyjh
qiu?sFnvsjtsvybsmibqvshnosurzbsorvsrtsyjuhbdt;sfnvsjhsqhsqosbiiqoe-frc
josybqzbo;sorisrobshjomdbshvqisaqosibzrdzb,sfnvsfcshrubsjozjhjfdb
grpbi;syrpsvybosaqosvyjhsrobshuqddsybqivsfbqv;svyjhsrobshuqddsfiqjo
vyjo svyrnmyvh;snodbhhsMreserbhsvyqvsfbqvjom,serbhsvyqvsvyjo jom,serbh
vyqvsdjzjom,sqoesorvsJ.sFcsybqzbo,suqo,spbsqibsvniobesirnoesqoesirnoe
josvyjhspride,sdj bscroebispjoedqhh,sqoesTqvbsjhsvybsyqoehgj b.sQoesqdd
vybsvjub,sdr!svyqvshujdjomsh c,sqoesvyjhsnohrnoebeshbq!sDrr !shbbscro
Qdfjarib!spyrsgnvsjvsjovrsyjusvrsayqhbsqoestqomsvyqvstdcjom-tjhy?sPybib
ersuniebibihsmr,suqo!sPyr’hsvrserru,spybosvybsknembsyjuhbdtsjhseiqmmbe
vrsvybsfqi?sFnvsjvsjhsqsujde,sujdespjoe,sqoesqsujdesdrr jomsh c;sqoe
vybsqjishubddhsorp,sqhsjtsjvsfdbpstirusqstqi-qpqcsubqerp;svybcsyqzb
fbbosuq jomsyqcshrubpybibsnoebisvybshdrgbhsrtsvybsQoebh,sHvqifna ,sqoe
vybsurpbihsqibshdbbgjomsquromsvybsobp-urposyqc.sHdbbgjom?sQcb,svrjdspb
yrpspbsuqc,spbsqddshdbbgsqvsdqhvsrosvybstjbde.sHdbbg?sQcb,sqoesinhv
qujesmibboobhh;sqhsdqhvscbqi’hshacvybhstdnomserpo,sqoesdbtvsjosvyb
yqdt-anvshpqvyh—Hvqifna !”

Fnvsfdqoaybesvrsqsarighb’hsynbspjvysebhgqji,svybsUqvbsyqeshvrdbosqpqc.

Qyqfsairhhbesvybseba svrsmqwbsrzbisrosvybsrvybishjeb;sfnvshvqivbesqv
vprsibtdbavbe,stjxbesbcbhsjosvybspqvbisvybib.sTbeqddqyspqhsurvjrodbhhdc
dbqojomsrzbisvybshqubsiqjd.


AYQGVBIs133.sVybsAyqhb—TjihvsEqc.

Vyqvsojmyv,sjosvybsuje-pqvay,spybosvybsrdesuqo—qhsyjhsprovsqv
jovbizqdh—hvbggbestrivystirusvybshanvvdbsjospyjaysybsdbqobe,sqoespbov
vrsyjhsgjzrv-yrdb,sybshneebodcsvyinhvsrnvsyjhstqabstjbiabdc,shonttjom
ngsvybshbqsqjisqhsqshqmqajrnhshyjg’hsermspjdd,sjoseiqpjomsojmysvrshrub
fqifqirnhsjhdb.sYbsebadqibesvyqvsqspyqdbsunhvsfbsobqi.sHrrosvyqv
gbandjqisreri,shrubvjubhsvrsqsmibqvsejhvqoabsmjzbostrivysfcsvybsdjzjom
hgbiuspyqdb,spqhsgqdgqfdbsvrsqddsvybspqvay;sorispqhsqocsuqijobi
hnigijhbespybo,sqtvbisjohgbavjomsvybsarugqhh,sqoesvybosvybserm-zqob,
qoesvybosqhabivqjojomsvybsgibajhbsfbqijomsrtsvybsrerisqhsobqidcsqh
grhhjfdb,sQyqfsiqgjedcsriebibesvybshyjg’hsarnihbsvrsfbshdjmyvdc
qdvbibe,sqoesvybshqjdsvrsfbshyrivbobe.

Vybsqanvbsgrdjacsejavqvjomsvybhbsurzbubovhspqhshnttjajbovdcszjoejaqvbe
qvseqcfibq ,sfcsvybshjmyvsrtsqsdromshdbb srosvybshbqsejibavdcsqoe
dbomvypjhbsqybqe,shurrvysqhsrjd,sqoesibhbufdjomsjosvybsgdbqvbespqvbic
pijo dbhsfriebijomsjv,svybsgrdjhybesubvqddja-dj bsuqi hsrtshrubshpjtv
vjeb-ijg,sqvsvybsurnvysrtsqsebbg,siqgjeshvibqu.

“Uqosvybsuqhv-ybqeh!sAqddsqddsyqoeh!”

Vynoebijomspjvysvybsfnvvhsrtsvyibbsadnffbesyqoehgj bhsrosvybstribaqhvdb
eba ,sEqmmrrsirnhbesvybshdbbgbihspjvyshnaysknemubovsadqghsvyqvsvybc
hbbubesvrsbxyqdbstirusvybshanvvdb,shrsjohvqovqobrnhdcsejesvybcsqggbqi
pjvysvybjisadrvybhsjosvybjisyqoeh.

“Pyqvse’cbshbb?”saijbesQyqf,stdqvvbojomsyjhstqabsvrsvybsh c.

“Orvyjom,sorvyjomshji!”spqhsvybshrnoesyqjdjomserposjosibgdc.

“V’mqddqovshqjdh!—hvnohqjdh!sqdrpsqoesqdrtv,sqoesrosfrvyshjebh!”

Qddshqjdsfbjomshbv,sybsorpsaqhvsdrrhbsvybsdjtb-djob,sibhbizbestri
hpqcjomsyjusvrsvybsuqjosircqd-uqhvsybqe;sqoesjosqstbpsurubovhsvybcspbib
yrjhvjomsyjusvyjvybi,spybo,spyjdbsfnvsvprsvyjiehsrtsvybspqcsqdrtv,sqoe
pyjdbsgbbijomsqybqesvyirnmysvybsyrijwrovqdszqaqoacsfbvpbbosvyb
uqjo-vrg-hqjdsqoesvrg-mqddqov-hqjd,sybsiqjhbesqsmndd-dj bsaicsjosvyb
qji.s“Vybibshybsfdrph!—vybibshybsfdrph!sQsynugsdj bsqshorp-yjdd!sJvsjh
UrfcsEja !”

Tjibesfcsvybsaicspyjayshbbubeshjundvqobrnhdcsvq bosngsfcsvybsvyibb
drr -rnvh,svybsubosroseba sinhybesvrsvybsijmmjomsvrsfbyrdesvybstqurnh
pyqdbsvybcsyqeshrsdromsfbbosgnihnjom.sQyqfsyqesorpsmqjobesyjhstjoqd
gbiay,shrubstbbvsqfrzbsvybsrvybisdrr -rnvh,sVqhyvbmrshvqoejomsknhv
fbobqvysyjusrosvybsaqgsrtsvybsvrg-mqddqov-uqhv,shrsvyqvsvybsJoejqo’h
ybqespqhsqdurhvsrosqsdbzbdspjvysQyqf’hsybbd.sTirusvyjhsybjmyvsvybspyqdb
pqhsorpshbboshrubsujdbsrishrsqybqe,sqvsbzbicsirddsrtsvybshbqsibzbqdjom
yjhsyjmyshgqi djomsynug,sqoesibmndqidcskbvvjomsyjhshjdbovshgrnvsjovr
vybsqji.sVrsvybsaibendrnhsuqijobihsjvshbbubesvybshqubshjdbovshgrnvsvybc
yqeshrsdromsqmrsfbybdesjosvybsurrodjvsQvdqovjasqoesJoejqosRabqoh.

“Qoesejesorobsrtscbshbbsjvsfbtrib?”saijbesQyqf,syqjdjomsvybsgbiaybesubo
qddsqirnoesyju.

“Jshqpsyjusqdurhvsvyqvshqubsjohvqov,shji,svyqvsAqgvqjosQyqfseje,sqoesJ
aijbesrnv,”shqjesVqhyvbmr.

“Orvsvybshqubsjohvqov;sorvsvybshqub—or,svybsernfdrrosjhsujob,sTqvb
ibhbizbesvybsernfdrrostrisub.s_J_srodc;sorobsrtscbsarndesyqzbsiqjhbe
vybsPyjvbsPyqdbstjihv.sVybibshybsfdrph!—vybibshybsfdrph!—vybibshyb
fdrph!sVybibsqmqjo!—vybibsqmqjo!”sybsaijbe,sjosdrom-eiqpo,sdjombijom,
ubvyrejasvrobh,sqvvnobesvrsvybsmiqenqdsgirdromjomhsrtsvybspyqdb’h
zjhjfdbskbvh.s“Yb’hsmrjomsvrshrnoe!sJoshvnohqjdh!sErpo
vrg-mqddqov-hqjdh!sHvqoesfcsvyibbsfrqvh.sUi.sHvqifna ,sibubufbi,shvqc
rosfrqie,sqoes bbgsvybshyjg.sYbdusvybib!sDntt,sdnttsqsgrjov!sHr;
hvbqec,suqo,shvbqec!sVybibsmrstdn bh!sOr,sor;srodcsfdqa spqvbi!sQdd
ibqecsvybsfrqvhsvybib?sHvqoesfc,shvqoesfc!sDrpbisub,sUi.sHvqifna ;
drpbi,sdrpbi,—lnja ,slnja bi!”sqoesybshdjesvyirnmysvybsqjisvrsvybseba .

“Ybsjhsybqejomshviqjmyvsvrsdbbpqie,shji,”saijbesHvnff,s“ijmyvsqpqcstiru
nh;saqoorvsyqzbshbbosvybshyjgscbv.”

“Fbsenuf,suqo!sHvqoesfcsvybsfiqabh!sYqieserposvybsybdu!—fiqabsng!
Hyjzbisybi!—hyjzbisybi!—Hr;spbddsvyqv!sFrqvh,sfrqvh!”

HrrosqddsvybsfrqvhsfnvsHvqifna ’hspbibseirggbe;sqddsvybsfrqv-hqjdh
hbv—qddsvybsgqeedbhsgdcjom;spjvysijggdjomshpjtvobhh,shyrrvjomsvr
dbbpqie;sqoesQyqfsybqejomsvybsrohbv.sQsgqdb,sebqvy-mdjuubisdjvsng
Tbeqddqy’hshno bosbcbh;sqsyjebrnhsurvjrosmoqpbesyjhsurnvy.

Dj bsorjhbdbhhsoqnvjdnhshybddh,svybjisdjmyvsgirphshgbesvyirnmysvybshbq;
fnvsrodcshdrpdcsvybcsobqibesvybstrb.sQhsvybcsobqibesyju,svybsrabqosmibp
hvjddsuribshurrvy;shbbubeseiqpjomsqsaqigbvsrzbisjvhspqzbh;shbbubesq
orro-ubqerp,shrshbibobdcsjvshgibqe.sQvsdbomvysvybsfibqvydbhhsynovbi
aqubshrsojmysyjhshbbujomdcsnohnhgbavjomsgibc,svyqvsyjhsbovjibseqwwdjom
ynugspqhsejhvjoavdcszjhjfdb,shdjejomsqdromsvybshbqsqhsjtsqosjhrdqvbe
vyjom,sqoesarovjonqddcshbvsjosqsibzrdzjomsijomsrtstjobhv,stdbbac,
mibbojhystrqu.sYbshqpsvybszqhv,sjozrdzbespijo dbhsrtsvybshdjmyvdc
girkbavjomsybqesfbcroe.sFbtribsjv,stqisrnvsrosvybshrtvsVni jhy-inmmbe
pqvbih,spbovsvybsmdjhvbojomspyjvbshyqerpstirusyjhsfirqe,sujd c
tribybqe,sqsunhjaqdsijggdjomsgdqctnddcsqaarugqocjomsvybshyqeb;sqoe
fbyjoe,svybsfdnbspqvbihsjovbiayqombqfdcstdrpbesrzbisjovrsvybsurzjom
zqddbcsrtsyjhshvbqecspq b;sqoesrosbjvybisyqoesfijmyvsfnffdbhsqirhbsqoe
eqoabesfcsyjhshjeb.sFnvsvybhbspbibsfir bosqmqjosfcsvybsdjmyvsvrbhsrt
ynoeibehsrtsmqcstrpdshrtvdcstbqvybijomsvybshbq,sqdvbioqvbspjvysvybji
tjvtndstdjmyv;sqoesdj bsvrshrubstdqm-hvqttsijhjomstirusvybsgqjovbesyndd
rtsqosqimrhc,svybsvqddsfnvshyqvvbibesgrdbsrtsqsibabovsdqoabsgirkbavbe
tirusvybspyjvbspyqdb’hsfqa ;sqoesqvsjovbizqdhsrobsrtsvybsadrnesrt
hrtv-vrbestrpdhsyrzbijom,sqoesvrsqoestirsh juujomsdj bsqsaqorgcsrzbi
vybstjhy,shjdbovdcsgbiaybesqoesira besrosvyjhsgrdb,svybsdromsvqjd
tbqvybihshvibqujomsdj bsgbooroh.

Qsmbovdbskrcrnhobhh—qsujmyvcsujdeobhhsrtsibgrhbsjoshpjtvobhh,sjozbhvbe
vybsmdjejomspyqdb.sOrvsvybspyjvbsfnddsKngjvbishpjuujomsqpqcspjvy
iqzjhybesBnirgqsadjomjomsvrsyjhsmiqabtndsyrioh;syjhsdrzbdc,sdbbijom
bcbhshjebpqchsjovbovsngrosvybsuqje;spjvyshurrvysfbpjvayjomstdbbvobhh,
ijggdjomshviqjmyvstrisvybsongvjqdsfrpbisjosAibvb;sorvsKrzb,sorvsvyqv
mibqvsuqkbhvcsHngibub!sejeshnigqhhsvybsmdrijtjbesPyjvbsPyqdbsqhsybshr
ejzjobdcshpqu.

Rosbqayshrtvshjeb—arjoajebovspjvysvybsgqivbeshpbdd,svyqvsfnvsroab
dbqzjomsyju,svybostdrpbeshrspjebsqpqc—rosbqaysfijmyvshjeb,svybspyqdb
hybesrttsbovjajomh.sOrsproebisvybibsyqesfbboshrubsquromsvybsynovbihspyr
oqubdbhhdcsviqohgrivbesqoesqddnibesfcsqddsvyjhshbibojvc,syqeszbovnibe
vrsqhhqjdsjv;sfnvsyqestqvqddcstrnoesvyqvslnjbvnebsfnvsvybszbhvnibsrt
vrioqerbh.sCbvsaqdu,sbovjajomsaqdu,sry,spyqdb!svyrnsmdjebhvsro,svrsqdd
pyrstrisvybstjihvsvjubsbcbsvybb,sorsuqvvbisyrpsuqocsjosvyqvshqubspqc
vyrnsuqc’hvsyqzbsfbknmmdbesqoesebhvircbesfbtrib.

Qoesvynh,svyirnmysvybshbibobsviqolnjddjvjbhsrtsvybsvirgjaqdshbq,squrom
pqzbhspyrhbsyqoe-adqggjomhspbibshnhgboebesfcsbxabbejomsiqgvnib,sUrfc
Eja surzbesro,shvjddspjvyyrdejomstirushjmyvsvybstnddsvbiirihsrtsyjh
hnfubimbesvino ,sbovjibdcsyjejomsvybspiboaybesyjebrnhobhhsrtsyjhskqp.
Fnvshrrosvybstribsgqivsrtsyjushdrpdcsirhbstirusvybspqvbi;strisqo
johvqovsyjhspyrdbsuqifdbjwbesfrecstriubesqsyjmysqiay,sdj bsZjimjojq’h
OqvniqdsFijemb,sqoespqiojomdcspqzjomsyjhsfqoobibestdn bhsjosvybsqji,
vybsmiqoesmresibzbqdbesyjuhbdt,shrnoebe,sqoespbovsrnvsrtshjmyv.
Yrzbijomdcsyqdvjom,sqoesejggjomsrosvybspjom,svybspyjvbshbq-trpdh
dromjomdcsdjombibesrzbisvybsqmjvqvbesgrrdsvyqvsybsdbtv.

Pjvysrqihsqgbq ,sqoesgqeedbhserpo,svybshybbvhsrtsvybjishqjdhsqeijtv,
vybsvyibbsfrqvhsorpshvjddcstdrqvbe,sqpqjvjomsUrfcsEja ’hsibqggbqiqoab.

“Qosyrni,”shqjesQyqf,shvqoejomsirrvbesjosyjhsfrqv’hshvbio;sqoesybsmqwbe
fbcroesvybspyqdb’hsgdqab,svrpqiehsvybsejusfdnbshgqabhsqoespjebsprrjom
zqaqoajbhsvrsdbbpqie.sJvspqhsrodcsqosjohvqov;strisqmqjosyjhsbcbhshbbube
pyjidjomsirnoesjosyjhsybqesqhsybshpbgvsvybspqvbicsajiadb.sVybsfibbwb
orpstibhybobe;svybshbqsfbmqosvrshpbdd.

“Vybsfjieh!—vybsfjieh!”saijbesVqhyvbmr.

JosdromsJoejqostjdb,sqhspybosybirohsvq bspjom,svybspyjvbsfjiehspbibsorp
qddstdcjomsvrpqiehsQyqf’hsfrqv;sqoespybospjvyjosqstbpscqiehsfbmqo
tdnvvbijomsrzbisvybspqvbisvybib,spybbdjomsirnoesqoesirnoe,spjvyskrcrnh,
bxgbavqovsaijbh.sVybjiszjhjrospqhs bbobisvyqosuqo’h;sQyqfsarnde
ejharzbisorshjmosjosvybshbq.sFnvshneebodcsqhsybsgbbibeserposqoeserpo
jovrsjvhsebgvyh,sybsgirtrnoedcshqpsqspyjvbsdjzjomshgrvsorsfjmmbisvyqosq
pyjvbspbqhbd,spjvysproebitndsabdbijvcsngijhjom,sqoesuqmojtcjomsqhsjv
irhb,svjddsjvsvniobe,sqoesvybosvybibspbibsgdqjodcsibzbqdbesvprsdrom
airr besirphsrtspyjvb,smdjhvbojomsvbbvy,stdrqvjomsngstirusvyb
noejharzbiqfdbsfrvvru.sJvspqhsUrfcsEja ’hsrgbosurnvysqoeshairddbeskqp;
yjhszqhv,shyqerpbesfnd shvjddsyqdtsfdboejomspjvysvybsfdnbsrtsvybshbq.
Vybsmdjvvbijomsurnvyscqpobesfbobqvysvybsfrqvsdj bsqosrgbo-erribesuqifdb
vruf;sqoesmjzjomsrobshjebdromshpbbgspjvysyjhshvbbijomsrqi,sQyqfspyjidbe
vybsaiqtvsqhjebstirusvyjhsvibuboernhsqggqijvjro.sVybo,saqddjomsngro
Tbeqddqysvrsayqombsgdqabhspjvysyju,spbovstripqiesvrsvybsfrph,sqoe
hbjwjomsGbivy’hsyqigrro,saruuqoebesyjhsaibpsvrsmiqhgsvybjisrqihsqoe
hvqoesfcsvrshvbio.

Orp,sfcsibqhrosrtsvyjhsvjubdcshgjoojomsirnoesvybsfrqvsngrosjvhsqxjh,
jvhsfrp,sfcsqovjajgqvjro,spqhsuqebsvrstqabsvybspyqdb’hsybqespyjdbscbv
noebispqvbi.sFnvsqhsjtsgbiabjzjomsvyjhshviqvqmbu,sUrfcsEja ,spjvysvyqv
uqdjajrnhsjovbddjmboabsqhaijfbesvrsyju,shjebdjomdcsviqohgdqovbe
yjuhbdt,sqhsjvspbib,sjosqosjohvqov,shyrrvjomsyjhsgdbqvbesybqe
dbomvypjhbsfbobqvysvybsfrqv.

Vyirnmysqoesvyirnmy;svyirnmysbzbicsgdqo sqoesbqaysijf,sjvsvyijddbestri
qosjohvqov,svybspyqdbsrfdjlnbdcsdcjomsrosyjhsfqa ,sjosvybsuqoobisrtsq
fjvjomshyqi ,shdrpdcsqoestbbdjomdcsvq jomsjvhsfrphstnddspjvyjosyjh
urnvy,shrsvyqvsvybsdrom,soqiirp,shairddbesdrpbiskqpsanidbesyjmysngsjovr
vybsrgbosqji,sqoesrobsrtsvybsvbbvysaqnmyvsjosqsirp-dra .sVybsfdnjhy
gbqid-pyjvbsrtsvybsjohjebsrtsvybskqpspqhspjvyjoshjxsjoaybhsrtsQyqf’h
ybqe,sqoesibqaybesyjmybisvyqosvyqv.sJosvyjhsqvvjvnebsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb
orpshyrr svybshdjmyvsabeqisqhsqsujdedcsainbdsaqvsybisurnhb.sPjvy
noqhvrojhybesbcbhsTbeqddqysmqwbe,sqoesairhhbesyjhsqiuh;sfnvsvyb
vjmbi-cbddrpsaibpspbibsvnufdjomsrzbisbqaysrvybi’hsybqehsvrsmqjosvyb
nvvbiurhvshvbio.

Qoesorp,spyjdbsfrvysbdqhvjasmnopqdbhspbibshgijomjomsjosqoesrnv,sqhsvyb
pyqdbseqddjbespjvysvybserrubesaiqtvsjosvyjhsebzjdjhyspqc;sqoestirusyjh
frecsfbjomshnfubimbesfbobqvysvybsfrqv,sybsarndesorvsfbseqivbesqvstiru
vybsfrph,strisvybsfrphspbibsqdurhvsjohjebsrtsyju,sqhsjvspbib;sqoespyjdb
vybsrvybisfrqvhsjozrdnovqijdcsgqnhbe,sqhsfbtribsqslnja saijhjh
jugrhhjfdbsvrspjvyhvqoe,svybosjvspqhsvyqvsuroruqojqasQyqf,stnijrnhspjvy
vyjhsvqovqdjwjomszjajojvcsrtsyjhstrb,spyjaysgdqabesyjusqddsqdjzbsqoe
ybdgdbhhsjosvybszbicskqphsybsyqvbe;stibowjbespjvysqddsvyjh,sybshbjwbe
vybsdromsfrobspjvysyjhsoq besyqoeh,sqoespjdedcshvirzbsvrspiboaysjvstiru
jvhsmijgb.sQhsorpsybsvynhszqjodcshvirzb,svybskqpshdjggbestirusyju;svyb
tiqjdsmnopqdbhsfbovsjo,sarddqghbe,sqoeshoqggbe,sqhsfrvyskqph,sdj bsqo
boriurnhshybqih,shdjejomstnivybisqtv,sfjvsvybsaiqtvsarugdbvbdcsjo
vpqjo,sqoesdra besvybuhbdzbhstqhvsqmqjosjosvybshbq,sujepqcsfbvpbbosvyb
vprstdrqvjomspiba h.sVybhbstdrqvbesqhjeb,svybsfir bosboehseirrgjom,svyb
aibpsqvsvybshvbio-piba sadjomjomsvrsvybsmnopqdbh,sqoeshvijzjomsvrsyrde
tqhvsvrsvybsrqihsvrsdqhysvybusqairhh.

Qvsvyqvsgibdnejomsurubov,sbibsvybsfrqvspqhscbvshoqggbe,sQyqf,svybstjihv
vrsgbiabjzbsvybspyqdb’hsjovbov,sfcsvybsaiqtvcsngiqjhjomsrtsyjhsybqe,sq
urzbubovsvyqvsdrrhbesyjhsyrdestrisvybsvjub;sqvsvyqvsurubovsyjhsyqoesyqe
uqebsrobstjoqdsbttrivsvrsgnhysvybsfrqvsrnvsrtsvybsfjvb.sFnvsrodc
hdjggjomstnivybisjovrsvybspyqdb’hsurnvy,sqoesvjdvjomsrzbishjebpqchsqh
jvshdjggbe,svybsfrqvsyqeshyq bosrttsyjhsyrdesrosvybskqp;shgjddbesyju
rnvsrtsjv,sqhsybsdbqobesvrsvybsgnhy;sqoeshrsybstbddstdqv-tqabesngrosvyb
hbq.

Ijggdjomdcspjvyeiqpjomstirusyjhsgibc,sUrfcsEja sorpsdqcsqvsqsdjvvdb
ejhvqoab,szbivjaqddcsvyinhvjomsyjhsrfdromspyjvbsybqesngsqoeserposjosvyb
fjddrph;sqoesqvsvybshqubsvjubshdrpdcsibzrdzjomsyjhspyrdbshgjoedbesfrec;
hrsvyqvspybosyjhszqhvspijo dbestribybqesirhb—hrubsvpbovcsrisuribstbbv
rnvsrtsvybspqvbi—vybsorpsijhjomshpbddh,spjvysqddsvybjisarotdnbovspqzbh,
eqwwdjomdcsfir bsqmqjohvsjv;szjoejavjzbdcsvrhhjomsvybjishyjzbibeshgiqc
hvjddsyjmybisjovrsvybsqji.*sHr,sjosqsmqdb,svybsfnvsyqdtsfqttdbesAyqoobd
fjddrphsrodcsibarjdstirusvybsfqhbsrtsvybsBeechvrob,svijnugyqovdcsvr
rzbidbqgsjvhshnuujvspjvysvybjishane.

*Vyjhsurvjrosjhsgbandjqisvrsvybshgbiuspyqdb.sJvsibabjzbhsjvh
ebhjmoqvjros(gjvaygrdjom)stirusjvhsfbjomsdj bobesvrsvyqvsgibdjujoqic
ng-qoe-erposgrjhbsrtsvybspyqdb-dqoab,sjosvybsbxbiajhbsaqddbe
gjvaygrdjom,sgibzjrnhdcsebhaijfbe.sFcsvyjhsurvjrosvybspyqdbsunhvsfbhv
qoesurhvsarugibybohjzbdcszjbpspyqvbzbisrfkbavhsuqcsfbsboajiadjomsyju.

Fnvshrrosibhnujomsyjhsyrijwrovqdsqvvjvneb,sUrfcsEja shpqushpjtvdcsirnoe
qoesirnoesvybspiba besaibp;shjebpqchsayniojomsvybspqvbisjosyjhszbombtnd
pq b,sqhsjtsdqhyjomsyjuhbdtsngsvrshvjddsqorvybisqoesuribsebqedc
qhhqndv.sVybshjmyvsrtsvybshgdjovbibesfrqvshbbubesvrsuqeebosyju,sqhsvyb
fdrresrtsmiqgbhsqoesundfbiijbhsaqhvsfbtribsQovjraynh’hsbdbgyqovhsjosvyb
frr srtsUqaaqfbbh.sUbqopyjdbsQyqfsyqdtshurvybibesjosvybstrqusrtsvyb
pyqdb’hsjohrdbovsvqjd,sqoesvrrsunaysrtsqsaijggdbsvrshpju,—vyrnmysyb
arndeshvjdds bbgsqtdrqv,sbzbosjosvybsybqivsrtshnaysqspyjidgrrdsqhsvyqv;
ybdgdbhhsQyqf’hsybqespqhshbbo,sdj bsqsvrhhbesfnffdbspyjaysvybsdbqhv
ayqoabshyra sujmyvsfnihv.sTirusvybsfrqv’hstiqmubovqicshvbio,sTbeqddqy
joanijrnhdcsqoesujdedcsbcbesyju;svybsadjomjomsaibp,sqvsvybsrvybi
eijtvjomsboe,sarndesorvshnaarisyju;suribsvyqosbornmyspqhsjvstrisvybusvr
drr svrsvybuhbdzbh.sTrishrsibzrdzjomdcsqggqddjomspqhsvybsPyjvbsPyqdb’h
qhgbav,sqoeshrsgdqobvqijdcshpjtvsvybsbzbi-aroviqavjomsajiadbhsybsuqeb,
vyqvsybshbbubesyrijwrovqddcshprrgjomsngrosvybu.sQoesvyrnmysvybsrvybi
frqvh,snoyqiube,shvjddsyrzbibesyqiesfc;shvjddsvybcseqibesorvsgnddsjovr
vybsbeecsvrshvij b,sdbhvsvyqvshyrndesfbsvybshjmoqdstrisvybsjohvqov
ebhvinavjrosrtsvybskbrgqiejwbesaqhvqpqch,sQyqfsqoesqdd;sorisjosvyqv
aqhbsarndesvybcsvybuhbdzbhsyrgbsvrsbhaqgb.sPjvyshviqjojomsbcbh,svybo,
vybcsibuqjobesrosvybsrnvbisbembsrtsvybsejibtndswrob,spyrhbsabovibsyqe
orpsfbarubsvybsrdesuqo’hsybqe.

Ubqovjub,stirusvybsfbmjoojomsqddsvyjhsyqesfbbosebhaijbestirusvybshyjg’h
uqhvsybqeh;sqoeshlnqijomsybiscqieh,shybsyqesfriobserposngrosvybshabob;
qoespqhsorpshrsojmy,svyqvsQyqfsjosvybspqvbisyqjdbesybi!—“Hqjdsro
vyb”—fnvsvyqvsurubovsqsfibq jomshbqseqhybesrosyjustirusUrfcsEja ,sqoe
pybdubesyjustrisvybsvjub.sFnvshvinmmdjomsrnvsrtsjvsqmqjo,sqoesayqoajom
vrsijhbsrosqsvrpbijomsaibhv,sybshyrnvbe,—“Hqjdsrosvybspyqdb!—Eijzbsyju
rtt!”

VybsGblnre’hsgirphspbibsgrjovbe;sqoesfibq jomsngsvybsayqiubesajiadb,
hybsbttbavnqddcsgqivbesvybspyjvbspyqdbstirusyjhszjavju.sQhsybshnddbodc
hpqusrtt,svybsfrqvhstdbpsvrsvybsibhanb.

EiqmmbesjovrsHvnff’hsfrqvspjvysfdrre-hyrv,sfdjoebesbcbh,svybspyjvb
fijobsaq jomsjosyjhspijo dbh;svybsdromsvbohjrosrtsQyqf’hsfrejdc
hvibomvysejesaiqa ,sqoesybdgdbhhdcsybscjbdebesvrsyjhsfrec’hserru:strisq
vjub,sdcjomsqddsainhybesjosvybsfrvvrusrtsHvnff’hsfrqv,sdj bsrobsvireebo
noebistrrvsrtsybiehsrtsbdbgyqovh.sTqisjodqoe,soqubdbhhspqjdhsaqubstiru
yju,sqhsebhrdqvbshrnoehstirusrnvsiqzjobh.

Fnvsvyjhsjovbohjvcsrtsyjhsgychjaqdsgirhviqvjrosejesfnvshrsunaysvybsurib
qffibzjqvbsjv.sJosqosjohvqov’hsarugqhh,smibqvsybqivhshrubvjubhsaroebohb
vrsrobsebbgsgqom,svybshnusvrvqdsrtsvyrhbshyqddrpsgqjohs joedcsejttnhbe
vyirnmystbbfdbisubo’hspyrdbsdjzbh.sQoeshr,shnaysybqivh,svyrnmyshnuuqic
josbqaysrobshnttbijom;shvjdd,sjtsvybsmrehsebaibbsjv,sjosvybjisdjtb-vjub
qmmibmqvbsqspyrdbsqmbsrtsprb,spyrddcsuqebsngsrtsjohvqovqobrnh
jovbohjvjbh;strisbzbosjosvybjisgrjovdbhhsabovibh,svyrhbsorfdbsoqvnibh
arovqjosvybsbovjibsajianutbiboabhsrtsjotbijrishrndh.

“Vybsyqigrro,”shqjesQyqf,syqdtspqcsijhjom,sqoeseiqmmjomdcsdbqojomsro
robsfboebesqiu—“jhsjvshqtb?”

“Qcb,shji,strisjvspqhsorvseqivbe;svyjhsjhsjv,”shqjesHvnff,shyrpjomsjv.

“Dqcsjvsfbtribsub;—qocsujhhjomsubo?”

“Rob,svpr,svyibb,strni,stjzb;—vybibspbibstjzbsrqih,shji,sqoesybibsqib
tjzbsubo.”

“Vyqv’hsmrre.—Ybdgsub,suqo;sJspjhysvrshvqoe.sHr,shr,sJshbbsyju!svybib!
vybib!smrjomsvrsdbbpqieshvjdd;spyqvsqsdbqgjomshgrnv!—Yqoehsrttstirusub!
VybsbvbioqdshqgsinohsngsjosQyqf’hsfrobhsqmqjo!sHbvsvybshqjd;srnvsrqih;
vybsybdu!”

Jvsjhsrtvbosvybsaqhbsvyqvspybosqsfrqvsjhshvrzb,sjvhsaibp,sfbjomsgja be
ngsfcsqorvybisfrqv,sybdgsvrspri svyqvshbaroesfrqv;sqoesvybsayqhbsjh
vynhsarovjonbespjvyspyqvsjhsaqddbesernfdb-fqo besrqih.sJvspqhsvynhsorp.
Fnvsvybsqeebesgrpbisrtsvybsfrqvsejesorvsblnqdsvybsqeebesgrpbisrtsvyb
pyqdb,strisybshbbubesvrsyqzbsvibfdb-fqo besyjhsbzbicstjo;shpjuujomspjvy
qszbdrajvcspyjaysgdqjodcshyrpbe,svyqvsjtsorp,snoebisvybhb
ajianuhvqoabh,sgnhybesro,svybsayqhbsprndesgirzbsqosjoebtjojvbdc
girdrombe,sjtsorvsqsyrgbdbhhsrob;sorisarndesqocsaibpsboenibstrishrsdrom
qsgbijre,shnaysqosnojovbiujvvbe,sjovbohbshviqjojomsqvsvybsrqi;sqsvyjom
fqibdcsvrdbiqfdbsrodcsjoshrubsrobsfijbtszjajhhjvneb.sVybshyjgsjvhbdt,
vybo,sqhsjvshrubvjubhsyqggboh,srttbibesvybsurhvsgirujhjomsjovbiubejqvb
ubqohsrtsrzbivq jomsvybsayqhb.sQaariejomdc,svybsfrqvhsorpsuqebstrisybi,
qoespbibshrroshpqcbesngsvrsvybjisaiqobh—vybsvprsgqivhsrtsvybspiba be
frqvsyqzjomsfbbosgibzjrnhdcshbanibesfcsybi—qoesvybosyrjhvjomsbzbicvyjom
vrsybishjeb,sqoeshvqa jomsybisaqozqhsyjmysng,sqoeshjebpqch
rnvhvibvayjomsjvspjvyshvno-hqjdh,sdj bsvybsernfdb-krjovbespjomhsrtsqo
qdfqvirhh;svybsGblnresfribserposjosvybsdbbpqiespq bsrtsUrfc-Eja .sQv
vybspbdds orpo,subvyrejasjovbizqdh,svybspyqdb’hsmdjvvbijomshgrnvspqh
ibmndqidcsqoornoabestirusvybsuqoobesuqhv-ybqeh;sqoespybosybsprndesfb
ibgrivbesqhsknhvsmrobserpo,sQyqfsprndesvq bsvybsvjub,sqoesvybosgqajom
vybseba ,sfjooqadb-pqvaysjosyqoe,shrshrrosqhsvybsdqhvshbaroesrtsvyb
qddrvvbesyrnisbxgjibe,syjhszrjabspqhsybqie.—“Pyrhbsjhsvybsernfdrrosorp?
E’cbshbbsyju?”sqoesjtsvybsibgdcspqh,sOr,shji!shviqjmyvpqcsybsaruuqoebe
vybusvrsdjtvsyjusvrsyjhsgbiay.sJosvyjhspqcsvybseqcspribsro;sQyqf,sorp
qdrtvsqoesurvjrodbhh;sqoro,snoibhvjomdcsgqajomsvybsgdqo h.

Qhsybspqhsvynhspqd jom,snvvbijomsorshrnoe,sbxabgvsvrsyqjdsvybsubo
qdrtv,srisvrsfjesvybusyrjhvsqshqjdshvjddsyjmybi,srisvrshgibqesrobsvrsq
hvjddsmibqvbisfibqevy—vynhsvrsqoestirsgqajom,sfbobqvysyjhshdrnaybesyqv,
qvsbzbicsvniosybsgqhhbesyjhsrpospiba besfrqv,spyjaysyqesfbboseirggbe
ngrosvybslnqivbi-eba ,sqoesdqcsvybibsibzbihbe;sfir bosfrpsvrshyqvvbibe
hvbio.sQvsdqhvsybsgqnhbesfbtribsjv;sqoesqhsjosqosqdibqecsrzbi-adrnebe
h cstibhysvirrghsrtsadrnehspjddshrubvjubhshqjdsqairhh,shrsrzbisvybsrde
uqo’hstqabsvybibsorpshvrdbshrubshnaysqeebesmdrrusqhsvyjh.

Hvnffshqpsyjusgqnhb;sqoesgbiyqghsjovboejom,sorvszqjodc,svyrnmy,svr
bzjoabsyjhsrposnoqfqvbestrivjvneb,sqoesvynhs bbgsngsqszqdjqovsgdqabsjo
yjhsAqgvqjo’hsujoe,sybsqezqoabe,sqoesbcbjomsvybspiba sbxadqjube—“Vyb
vyjhvdbsvybsqhhsibtnhbe;sjvsgija besyjhsurnvysvrrs bbodc,shji;syq!syq!”

“Pyqvshrnddbhhsvyjomsjhsvyjhsvyqvsdqnmyhsfbtribsqspiba ?sUqo,suqo!seje
Jsorvs orpsvybbsfiqzbsqhstbqidbhhstjibs(qoesqhsubayqojaqd)sJsarnde
hpbqisvyrnspbivsqsgrdvirro.sMirqosorisdqnmyshyrndesfbsybqiesfbtribsq
piba .”

“Qcb,shji,”shqjesHvqifna seiqpjomsobqi,s“’vjhsqshrdbuoshjmyv;sqosrubo,
qoesqosjddsrob.”

“Rubo?srubo?—vybsejavjroqic!sJtsvybsmrehsvyjo svrshgbq srnvijmyvsvr
uqo,svybcspjddsyroriqfdcshgbq srnvijmyv;sorvshyq bsvybjisybqeh,sqoe
mjzbsqosrdespjzbh’seqi djomsyjov.—Fbmrob!sCbsvprsqibsvybsrggrhjvbsgrdbh
rtsrobsvyjom;sHvqifna sjhsHvnffsibzbihbe,sqoesHvnffsjhsHvqifna ;sqoescb
vprsqibsqddsuqo joe;sqoesQyqfshvqoehsqdrobsquromsvybsujddjrohsrtsvyb
gbrgdbesbqivy,sorismrehsorisubosyjhsobjmyfrih!sArde,sarde—Jshyjzbi!—Yrp
orp?sQdrtvsvybib!sE’cbshbbsyju?sHjomsrnvstrisbzbicshgrnv,svyrnmysyb
hgrnvsvbosvjubhsqshbaroe!”

Vybseqcspqhsobqidcserob;srodcsvybsybusrtsyjhsmrdebosirfbspqhsinhvdjom.
Hrro,sjvspqhsqdurhvseqi ,sfnvsvybsdrr -rnvsuboshvjddsibuqjobesnohbv.

“Aqo’vshbbsvybshgrnvsorp,shji;—vrrseqi ”—aijbesqszrjabstirusvybsqji.

“Yrpsybqejomspybosdqhvshbbo?”

“Qhsfbtrib,shji,—hviqjmyvsvrsdbbpqie.”

“Mrre!sybspjddsviqzbdshdrpbisorps’vjhsojmyv.sErposircqdhsqoe
vrg-mqddqovshvno-hqjdh,sUi.sHvqifna .sPbsunhvsorvsinosrzbisyjusfbtrib
uriojom;syb’hsuq jomsqsgqhhqmbsorp,sqoesuqcsybqzb-vrsqspyjdb.sYbdu
vybib!s bbgsybistnddsfbtribsvybspjoe!—Qdrtv!sarubserpo!—Ui.sHvnff,shboe
qstibhysyqoesvrsvybstrib-uqhvsybqe,sqoeshbbsjvsuqoobesvjdd
uriojom.”—Vybosqezqoajomsvrpqiehsvybsernfdrrosjosvybsuqjo-uqhv—“Ubo,
vyjhsmrdesjhsujob,strisJsbqiobesjv;sfnvsJshyqddsdbvsjvsqfjebsybibsvjdd
vybsPyjvbsPyqdbsjhsebqe;sqoesvybo,spyrhrbzbisrtscbstjihvsiqjhbhsyju,
ngrosvybseqcsybshyqddsfbs jddbe,svyjhsmrdesjhsvyqvsuqo’h;sqoesjtsro
vyqvseqcsJshyqddsqmqjosiqjhbsyju,svybo,svbosvjubhsjvhshnushyqddsfb
ejzjebesquromsqddsrtscb!sQpqcsorp!—vybseba sjhsvyjob,shji!”

Qoeshrshqcjom,sybsgdqabesyjuhbdtsyqdtspqcspjvyjosvybshanvvdb,sqoe
hdrnayjomsyjhsyqv,shvrresvybibsvjddseqpo,sbxabgvspybosqvsjovbizqdh
irnhjomsyjuhbdtsvrshbbsyrpsvybsojmyvspribsro.


AYQGVBIs134.sVybsAyqhb—HbaroesEqc.

Qvseqc-fibq ,svybsvyibbsuqhv-ybqehspbibsgnoavnqddcsuqoobesqtibhy.

“E’cbshbbsyju?”saijbesQyqfsqtvbisqddrpjomsqsdjvvdbshgqabstrisvybsdjmyv
vrshgibqe.

“Hbbsorvyjom,shji.”

“Vniosngsqddsyqoehsqoesuq bshqjd!sybsviqzbdhstqhvbisvyqosJsvyrnmyv
tri;—vybsvrg-mqddqovshqjdh!—qcb,svybcshyrndesyqzbsfbbos bgvsrosybisqdd
ojmyv.sFnvsorsuqvvbi—’vjhsfnvsibhvjomstrisvybsinhy.”

Ybibsfbsjvshqje,svyqvsvyjhsgbivjoqajrnhsgnihnjvsrtsrobsgqivjandqi
pyqdb,sarovjonbesvyirnmyseqcsjovrsojmyv,sqoesvyirnmysojmyvsjovrseqc,sjh
qsvyjomsfcsorsubqohsnogibabebovbesjosvybsHrnvyshbqstjhybic.sTrishnaysjh
vybsproebitndsh jdd,sgibhajboabsrtsbxgbijboab,sqoesjozjoajfdb
arotjeboabsqalnjibesfcshrubsmibqvsoqvniqdsmbojnhbhsquromsvybsOqovna bv
aruuqoebih;svyqvstirusvybshjugdbsrfhbizqvjrosrtsqspyqdbspybosdqhv
ebhaijbe,svybcspjdd,snoebisabivqjosmjzbosajianuhvqoabh,sgibvvc
qaaniqvbdcstribvbddsfrvysvybsejibavjrosjospyjaysybspjddsarovjonbsvr
hpjustrisqsvjub,spyjdbsrnvsrtshjmyv,sqhspbddsqhsyjhsgirfqfdbsiqvbsrt
girmibhhjrosenijomsvyqvsgbijre.sQoe,sjosvybhbsaqhbh,shrubpyqvsqhsq
gjdrv,spybosqfrnvsdrhjomshjmyvsrtsqsarqhv,spyrhbsmbobiqdsviboejomsyb
pbdds orph,sqoespyjaysybsebhjibhshyrivdcsvrsibvniosvrsqmqjo,sfnvsqv
hrubstnivybisgrjov;sdj bsqhsvyjhsgjdrvshvqoehsfcsyjhsarugqhh,sqoesvq bh
vybsgibajhbsfbqijomsrtsvybsaqgbsqvsgibhbovszjhjfdb,sjosriebisvybsurib
abivqjodcsvrsyjvsqijmyvsvybsiburvb,snohbbosybqedqoe,sbzbovnqddcsvrsfb
zjhjvbe:shrserbhsvybstjhybiuqo,sqvsyjhsarugqhh,spjvysvybspyqdb;stri
qtvbisfbjomsayqhbe,sqoesejdjmbovdcsuqi be,svyirnmyshbzbiqdsyrnihsrt
eqcdjmyv,svybo,spybosojmyvsrfhanibhsvybstjhy,svybsaibqvnib’hstnvnib
pq bsvyirnmysvybseqi obhhsjhsqdurhvsqhsbhvqfdjhybesvrsvybshqmqajrnh
ujoesrtsvybsynovbi,sqhsvybsgjdrv’hsarqhvsjhsvrsyju.sHrsvyqvsvrsvyjh
ynovbi’hsproeirnhsh jdd,svybsgirzbifjqdsbzqobhaboabsrtsqsvyjomspijvsjo
pqvbi,sqspq b,sjhsvrsqddsebhjibesgnigrhbhspbddsojmysqhsibdjqfdbsqhsvyb
hvbqetqhvsdqoe.sQoesqhsvybsujmyvcsjirosDbzjqvyqosrtsvybsurebiosiqjdpqc
jhshrstqujdjqidcs orposjosjvhsbzbicsgqab,svyqv,spjvyspqvaybhsjosvybji
yqoeh,subosvjubsyjhsiqvbsqhseravrihsvyqvsrtsqsfqfc’hsgndhb;sqoesdjmyvdc
hqcsrtsjv,svybsngsviqjosrisvybserposviqjospjddsibqayshnaysrishnaysq
hgrv,sqvshnaysrishnaysqosyrni;sbzboshr,sqdurhv,svybibsqibsraaqhjroh
pybosvybhbsOqovna bvbihsvjubsvyqvsrvybisDbzjqvyqosrtsvybsebbg,
qaariejomsvrsvybsrfhbizbesynurisrtsyjhshgbbe;sqoeshqcsvrsvybuhbdzbh,shr
uqocsyrnihsyboabsvyjhspyqdbspjddsyqzbsmrobsvprsynoeibesujdbh,spjddsyqzb
qfrnvsibqaybesvyjhsrisvyqvsebmibbsrtsdqvjvnebsrisdromjvneb.sFnvsvr
iboebisvyjhsqanvbobhhsqvsqddshnaabhhtndsjosvybsboe,svybspjoesqoesvyb
hbqsunhvsfbsvybspyqdbuqo’hsqddjbh;strisrtspyqvsgibhbovsqzqjdsvrsvyb
fbaqdubesrispjoefrnoesuqijobisjhsvybsh jddsvyqvsqhhnibhsyjusybsjh
bxqavdcsojobvc-vyibbsdbqmnbhsqoesqslnqivbistirusyjhsgriv?sJotbiqfdb
tirusvybhbshvqvbubovh,sqibsuqocsarddqvbiqdshnfvjdbsuqvvbihsvrnayjomsvyb
ayqhbsrtspyqdbh.

Vybshyjgsvribsro;sdbqzjomshnaysqstniirpsjosvybshbqsqhspybosq
aqooro-fqdd,sujhhbov,sfbarubhsqsgdrnmy-hyqibsqoesvniohsngsvybsdbzbd
tjbde.

“Fcshqdvsqoesybug!”saijbesHvnff,s“fnvsvyjhshpjtvsurvjrosrtsvybseba 
aibbghsngsrob’hsdbmhsqoesvjomdbhsqvsvybsybqiv.sVyjhshyjgsqoesJsqibsvpr
fiqzbstbddrph!—Yq,syq!sHrubsrobsvq bsubsng,sqoesdqnoaysub,shgjob-pjhb,
rosvybshbq,—trisfcsdjzb-rq h!sucshgjob’hsqs bbd.sYq,syq!spbsmrsvybsmqjv
vyqvsdbqzbhsorsenhvsfbyjoe!”

“Vybibshybsfdrph—hybsfdrph!—hybsfdrph!—ijmyvsqybqe!”spqhsorpsvyb
uqhv-ybqesaic.

“Qcb,sqcb!”saijbesHvnff,s“Js obpsjv—cbsaqo’vsbhaqgb—fdrpsrosqoeshgdjv
crnishgrnv,sRspyqdb!svybsuqestjboesyjuhbdtsjhsqtvbiscb!sfdrpscrni
vinug—fdjhvbiscrnisdnomh!—Qyqfspjddsequsrttscrnisfdrre,sqhsqsujddbi
hynvhsyjhspqvbimqvbsngrosvybshvibqu!”

QoesHvnffsejesfnvshgbq srnvstrispbddsojmysqddsvyqvsaibp.sVybstibowjbh
rtsvybsayqhbsyqesfcsvyjhsvjubspri besvybusfnffdjomdcsng,sdj bsrdespjob
pri besqobp.sPyqvbzbisgqdbstbqihsqoestribfrejomhshrubsrtsvybusujmyv
yqzbstbdvsfbtrib;svybhbspbibsorvsrodcsorps bgvsrnvsrtshjmyvsvyirnmysvyb
mirpjomsqpbsrtsQyqf,sfnvsvybcspbibsfir bosng,sqoesrosqddshjebhsirnvbe,
qhsvjujesgiqjijbsyqibhsvyqvshaqvvbisfbtribsvybsfrnoejomsfjhro.sVybsyqoe
rtsTqvbsyqeshoqvaybesqddsvybjishrndh;sqoesfcsvybshvjiijomsgbijdhsrtsvyb
gibzjrnhseqc;svybsiqa srtsvybsgqhvsojmyv’hshnhgbohb;svybstjxbe,
notbqijom,sfdjoe,siba dbhhspqcsjospyjaysvybjispjdesaiqtvspbovsgdnomjom
vrpqiehsjvhstdcjomsuqi ;sfcsqddsvybhbsvyjomh,svybjisybqivhspbibsfrpdbe
qdrom.sVybspjoesvyqvsuqebsmibqvsfbddjbhsrtsvybjishqjdh,sqoesinhybesvyb
zbhhbdsrosfcsqiuhsjozjhjfdbsqhsjiibhjhvjfdb;svyjhshbbubesvybshcufrdsrt
vyqvsnohbbosqmboacspyjayshrsbohdqzbesvybusvrsvybsiqab.

Vybcspbibsrobsuqo,sorvsvyjivc.sTrisqhsvybsrobshyjgsvyqvsybdesvybusqdd;
vyrnmysjvspqhsgnvsvrmbvybisrtsqddsaroviqhvjomsvyjomh—rq ,sqoesuqgdb,
qoesgjobsprre;sjiro,sqoesgjvay,sqoesybug—cbvsqddsvybhbsiqosjovrsbqay
rvybisjosvybsrobsaroaibvbsyndd,spyjayshyrvsrosjvhspqc,sfrvysfqdqoabe
qoesejibavbesfcsvybsdromsaboviqds bbd;sbzboshr,sqddsvybsjoejzjenqdjvjbh
rtsvybsaibp,svyjhsuqo’hszqdri,svyqvsuqo’hstbqi;smnjdvsqoesmnjdvjobhh,
qddszqijbvjbhspbibspbdebesjovrsrobobhh,sqoespbibsqddsejibavbesvrsvyqv
tqvqdsmrqdspyjaysQyqfsvybjisrobsdriesqoes bbdsejesgrjovsvr.

Vybsijmmjomsdjzbe.sVybsuqhv-ybqeh,sdj bsvybsvrghsrtsvqddsgqduh,spbib
rnvhgibqejomdcsvntvbespjvysqiuhsqoesdbmh.sAdjomjomsvrsqshgqispjvysrob
yqoe,shrubsibqaybestrivysvybsrvybispjvysjugqvjbovspqzjomh;srvybih,
hyqejomsvybjisbcbhstirusvybszjzjeshnodjmyv,shqvstqisrnvsrosvybsira jom
cqieh;sqddsvybshgqihsjostnddsfbqijomsrtsurivqdh,sibqecsqoesijgbstri
vybjistqvb.sQy!syrpsvybcshvjddshvirzbsvyirnmysvyqvsjotjojvbsfdnbobhhsvr
hbb srnvsvybsvyjomsvyqvsujmyvsebhvircsvybu!

“Pycshjomscbsorvsrnvstrisyju,sjtscbshbbsyju?”saijbesQyqf,spybo,sqtvbi
vybsdqghbsrtshrubsujonvbhshjoabsvybstjihvsaic,sorsuribsyqesfbbosybqie.
“Hpqcsubsng,subo;scbsyqzbsfbbosebabjzbe;sorvsUrfcsEja saqhvhsrobsree
kbvsvyqvspqc,sqoesvybosejhqggbqih.”

Jvspqhsbzboshr;sjosvybjisybqedromsbqmbiobhh,svybsubosyqesujhvq boshrub
rvybisvyjomstrisvybspyqdb-hgrnv,sqhsvybsbzbovsjvhbdtshrrosgirzbe;stri
yqiedcsyqesQyqfsibqaybesyjhsgbiay;syqiedcspqhsvybsirgbsfbdqcbesvrsjvh
gjosroseba ,spybosybshvina svybs bc-orvbsvrsqosriaybhviq,svyqvsuqebsvyb
qjiszjfiqvbsqhspjvysvybsarufjobesejhayqimbhsrtsijtdbh.sVybsvijnugyqov
yqddrrsrtsvyjivcsfna h josdnomhspqhsybqie,sqh—unaysobqibisvrsvybshyjg
vyqosvybsgdqabsrtsvybsjuqmjoqicskbv,sdbhhsvyqosqsujdbsqybqe—UrfcsEja 
frejdcsfnihvsjovrszjbp!sTrisorvsfcsqocsaqdusqoesjoerdbovshgrnvjomh;sorv
fcsvybsgbqabqfdbsmnhysrtsvyqvsuchvjastrnovqjosjosyjhsybqe,sejesvyb
PyjvbsPyqdbsorpsibzbqdsyjhszjajojvc;sfnvsfcsvybstqisuribsproeirnh
gyboruborosrtsfibqayjom.sIjhjomspjvysyjhsnvurhvszbdrajvcstirusvyb
tnivybhvsebgvyh,svybsHgbiusPyqdbsvynhsfrruhsyjhsbovjibsfnd sjovrsvyb
gnibsbdbubovsrtsqji,sqoesgjdjomsngsqsurnovqjosrtseqwwdjomstrqu,shyrph
yjhsgdqabsvrsvybsejhvqoabsrtshbzbosujdbhsqoesurib.sJosvyrhbsurubovh,
vybsvrio,sboiqmbespqzbhsybshyq bhsrtt,shbbusyjhsuqob;sjoshrubsaqhbh,
vyjhsfibqayjomsjhsyjhsqavsrtsebtjqoab.

“Vybibshybsfibqaybh!svybibshybsfibqaybh!”spqhsvybsaic,sqhsjosyjh
juubqhniqfdbsfiqzqerbhsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsvrhhbesyjuhbdtshqduro-dj bsvr
Ybqzbo.sHrshneebodcshbbosjosvybsfdnbsgdqjosrtsvybshbq,sqoesibdjbzbe
qmqjohvsvybshvjddsfdnbisuqimjosrtsvybsh c,svybshgiqcsvyqvsybsiqjhbe,
trisvybsurubov,sjovrdbiqfdcsmdjvvbibesqoesmdqibesdj bsqsmdqajbi;sqoe
hvrresvybibsmiqenqddcstqejomsqoestqejomsqpqcstirusjvhstjihvshgqi djom
jovbohjvc,svrsvybsejusujhvjobhhsrtsqosqezqoajomshyrpbisjosqszqdb.

“Qcb,sfibqayscrnisdqhvsvrsvybshno,sUrfcsEja !”saijbesQyqf,s“vycsyrni
qoesvycsyqigrrosqibsqvsyqoe!—Erpo!serposqddsrtscb,sfnvsrobsuqosqvsvyb
trib.sVybsfrqvh!—hvqoesfc!”

Noujoetndsrtsvybsvbejrnhsirgb-dqeebihsrtsvybshyirneh,svybsubo,sdj b
hyrrvjomshvqih,shdjesvrsvybseba ,sfcsvybsjhrdqvbesfqa hvqchsqoe
yqdcqieh;spyjdbsQyqf,sdbhhseqivjomdc,sfnvshvjddsiqgjedcspqhseirggbe
tirusyjhsgbiay.

“Drpbisqpqc,”sybsaijbe,shrshrrosqhsybsyqesibqaybesyjhsfrqv—qshgqibsrob,
ijmmbesvybsqtvbiorrosgibzjrnh.s“Ui.sHvqifna ,svybshyjgsjhsvyjob— bbg
qpqcstirusvybsfrqvh,sfnvs bbgsobqisvybu.sDrpbi,sqdd!”

Qhsjtsvrshvij bsqslnja svbiirisjovrsvybu,sfcsvyjhsvjubsfbjomsvybstjihv
qhhqjdqovsyjuhbdt,sUrfcsEja syqesvniobe,sqoespqhsorpsarujomstrisvyb
vyibbsaibph.sQyqf’hsfrqvspqhsaboviqd;sqoesaybbijomsyjhsubo,sybsvrde
vybusybsprndesvq bsvybspyqdbsybqe-qoe-ybqe,—vyqvsjh,sgnddshviqjmyvsng
vrsyjhstribybqe,—qsorvsnoaruurosvyjom;strispybospjvyjosqsabivqjosdjujv,
hnaysqsarnihbsbxadnebhsvybsarujomsrohbvstirusvybspyqdb’hshjebdrom
zjhjro.sFnvsbibsvyqvsadrhbsdjujvspqhsmqjobe,sqoespyjdbscbvsqddsvyibb
frqvhspbibsgdqjosqhsvybshyjg’hsvyibbsuqhvhsvrsyjhsbcb;svybsPyjvbsPyqdb
ayniojomsyjuhbdtsjovrstnijrnhshgbbe,sqdurhvsjosqosjohvqovsqhsjvspbib,
inhyjomsquromsvybsfrqvhspjvysrgboskqph,sqoesqsdqhyjomsvqjd,srttbibe
qggqddjomsfqvvdbsrosbzbicshjeb;sqoesybbedbhhsrtsvybsjirohseqivbesqvsyju
tirusbzbicsfrqv,shbbubesrodcsjovbovsrosqoojyjdqvjomsbqayshbgqiqvbsgdqo 
rtspyjaysvyrhbsfrqvhspbibsuqeb.sFnvsh jdtnddcsuqoœnzibe,sjoabhhqovdc
pybbdjomsdj bsviqjobesayqimbihsjosvybstjbde;svybsfrqvhstrisqspyjdb
bdnebesyju;svyrnmy,sqvsvjubh,sfnvsfcsqsgdqo ’hsfibqevy;spyjdbsqddsvyb
vjub,sQyqf’hsnobqivydcshdrmqosvribsbzbicsrvybisaicsfnvsyjhsvrshyibeh.

Fnvsqvsdqhvsjosyjhsnoviqabqfdbsbzrdnvjroh,svybsPyjvbsPyqdbshrsairhhbe
qoesibairhhbe,sqoesjosqsvyrnhqoespqchsbovqomdbesvybshdqa srtsvybsvyibb
djobhsorpstqhvsvrsyju,svyqvsvybcstribhyrivbobe,sqoe,srtsvybuhbdzbh,
pqigbesvybsebzrvbesfrqvhsvrpqiehsvybsgdqovbesjirohsjosyju;svyrnmysorp
trisqsurubovsvybspyqdbseibpsqhjebsqsdjvvdb,sqhsjtsvrsiqddcstrisqsurib
vibuboernhsayqimb.sHbjwjomsvyqvsrggrivnojvc,sQyqfstjihvsgqjesrnvsurib
djob:sqoesvybospqhsiqgjedcsyqndjomsqoeskbi jomsjosngrosjvsqmqjo—yrgjom
vyqvspqcsvrsejhboanufbisjvsrtshrubshoqidh—pybosdr!—qshjmyvsuribshqzqmb
vyqosvybsbufqvvdbesvbbvysrtshyqi h!

Aqnmyvsqoesvpjhvbe—ari haibpbesjosvybsuqwbhsrtsvybsdjob,sdrrhbsyqigrroh
qoesdqoabh,spjvysqddsvybjisfijhvdjomsfqifhsqoesgrjovh,saqubstdqhyjom
qoeseijggjomsngsvrsvybsayra hsjosvybsfrphsrtsQyqf’hsfrqv.sRodcsrob
vyjomsarndesfbserob.sHbjwjomsvybsfrqv- ojtb,sybsaijvjaqddcsibqaybe
pjvyjo—vyirnmy—qoesvybo,spjvyrnv—vybsiqchsrtshvbbd;seiqmmbesjosvybsdjob
fbcroe,sgqhhbesjv,sjofrqie,svrsvybsfrphuqo,sqoesvybo,svpjabshnoebijom
vybsirgbsobqisvybsayra h—eirggbesvybsjovbiabgvbestqmrvsrtshvbbdsjovr
vybshbq;sqoespqhsqddstqhvsqmqjo.sVyqvsjohvqov,svybsPyjvbsPyqdbsuqebsq
hneebosinhysquromsvybsibuqjojomsvqomdbhsrtsvybsrvybisdjobh;sfcshr
erjom,sjiibhjhvjfdcseiqmmbesvybsuribsjozrdzbesfrqvhsrtsHvnffsqoesTdqh 
vrpqiehsyjhstdn bh;seqhybesvybusvrmbvybisdj bsvprsirddjomsynh hsrosq
hnit-fbqvbosfbqay,sqoesvybo,sejzjomserposjovrsvybshbq,sejhqggbqibesjosq
frjdjomsuqbdhviru,sjospyjay,strisqshgqab,svybsrerirnhsabeqisayjghsrt
vybspiba hseqoabesirnoesqoesirnoe,sdj bsvybsmiqvbesonvubmsjosqshpjtvdc
hvjiibesfrpdsrtsgnoay.

Pyjdbsvybsvprsaibphspbibscbvsajiadjomsjosvybspqvbih,sibqayjomsrnvsqtvbi
vybsibzrdzjomsdjob-vnfh,srqih,sqoesrvybistdrqvjomstniojvnib,spyjdb
qhdrgbsdjvvdbsTdqh sfrffbesngsqoeserposdj bsqosbugvcszjqd,svpjvayjom
yjhsdbmhsngpqiehsvrsbhaqgbsvybseibqebeskqphsrtshyqi h;sqoesHvnffspqh
dnhvjdcshjomjomsrnvstrishrubsrobsvrsdqedbsyjusng;sqoespyjdbsvybsrde
uqo’hsdjob—orpsgqivjom—qeujvvbesrtsyjhsgnddjomsjovrsvybsaibqucsgrrdsvr
ibhanbspyrusybsarnde;—josvyqvspjdeshjundvqobrnhobhhsrtsqsvyrnhqoe
aroaibvbesgbijdh,—Qyqf’hscbvsnohvija bosfrqvshbbubeseiqposngsvrpqieh
Ybqzbosfcsjozjhjfdbspjibh,—qh,sqiirp-dj b,shyrrvjomsgbigboejandqidc
tirusvybshbq,svybsPyjvbsPyqdbseqhybesyjhsfirqestribybqesqmqjohvsjvh
frvvru,sqoeshbovsjv,svniojomsrzbisqoesrzbi,sjovrsvybsqji;svjddsjvstbdd
qmqjo—mnopqdbserpopqieh—qoesQyqfsqoesyjhsuboshvinmmdbesrnvstirusnoebi
jv,sdj bshbqdhstirusqshbq-hjebsaqzb.

Vybstjihvsngijhjomsurubovnusrtsvybspyqdb—urejtcjomsjvhsejibavjrosqhsyb
hvina svybshnitqab—jozrdnovqijdcsdqnoaybesyjusqdromsjv,svrsqsdjvvdb
ejhvqoabstirusvybsabovibsrtsvybsebhvinavjrosybsyqesuqeb;sqoespjvysyjh
fqa svrsjv,sybsorpsdqcstrisqsurubovshdrpdcstbbdjomspjvysyjhstdn bhstiru
hjebsvrshjeb;sqoespybobzbisqshviqcsrqi,sfjvsrtsgdqo ,svybsdbqhvsayjgsri
ainufsrtsvybsfrqvhsvrnaybesyjhsh jo,syjhsvqjdshpjtvdcseibpsfqa ,sqoe
aqubshjebpqchshujvjomsvybshbq.sFnvshrro,sqhsjtshqvjhtjbesvyqvsyjhspri 
trisvyqvsvjubspqhserob,sybsgnhybesyjhsgdbqvbestribybqesvyirnmysvyb
rabqo,sqoesviqjdjomsqtvbisyjusvybsjovbivqomdbesdjobh,sarovjonbesyjh
dbbpqiespqcsqvsqsviqzbddbi’hsubvyrejasgqab.

Qhsfbtrib,svybsqvvbovjzbshyjgsyqzjomsebhaijbesvybspyrdbstjmyv,sqmqjo
aqubsfbqijomserposvrsvybsibhanb,sqoeseirggjomsqsfrqv,sgja besngsvyb
tdrqvjomsuqijobih,svnfh,srqih,sqoespyqvbzbisbdhbsarndesfbsaqnmyvsqv,
qoeshqtbdcsdqoebesvybusrosybiseba h.sHrubshgiqjobeshyrndebih,spijhvh,
qoesqo dbh;sdjzjesarovnhjroh;spiboaybesyqigrrohsqoesdqoabh;
jobxvijaqfdbsjovijaqajbhsrtsirgb;shyqvvbibesrqihsqoesgdqo h;sqddsvybhb
pbibsvybib;sfnvsorstqvqdsrisbzboshbijrnhsjddshbbubesvrsyqzbsfbtqddbo
qocsrob.sQhspjvysTbeqddqysvybseqcsfbtrib,shrsQyqfspqhsorpstrnoesmijudc
adjomjomsvrsyjhsfrqv’hsfir bosyqdt,spyjaysqttriebesqsarugqiqvjzbdcsbqhc
tdrqv;sorisejesjvshrsbxyqnhvsyjusqhsvybsgibzjrnhseqc’hsujhyqg.

Fnvspybosybspqhsybdgbesvrsvybseba ,sqddsbcbhspbibstqhvbobesngrosyju;sqh
johvbqesrtshvqoejomsfcsyjuhbdtsybshvjddsyqdt-ynomsngrosvybshyrndebisrt
Hvqifna ,spyrsyqesvynhstqisfbbosvybstriburhvsvrsqhhjhvsyju.sYjhsjzric
dbmsyqesfbboshoqggbesrtt,sdbqzjomsfnvsrobshyrivshyqigshgdjovbi.

“Qcb,sqcb,sHvqifna ,s’vjhshpbbvsvrsdbqoshrubvjubh,sfbsvybsdbqobispyrsyb
pjdd;sqoesprndesrdesQyqfsyqesdbqobesrtvbobisvyqosybsyqh.”

“Vybstbiindbsyqhsorvshvrre,shji,”shqjesvybsaqigbovbi,sorpsarujomsng;s“J
gnvsmrrespri sjovrsvyqvsdbm.”

“Fnvsorsfrobhsfir bo,shji,sJsyrgb,”shqjesHvnffspjvysvinbsaroabio.

“Qcb!sqoesqddshgdjovbibesvrsgjbabh,sHvnff!—e’cbshbbsjv.—Fnvsbzbospjvysq
fir bosfrob,srdesQyqfsjhsnovrnaybe;sqoesJsqaarnovsorsdjzjomsfrobsrt
ujobsrobskrvsuribsub,svyqosvyjhsebqesrobsvyqv’hsdrhv.sOrispyjvbspyqdb,
orisuqo,soristjboe,saqoshrsunaysqhsmiqwbsrdesQyqfsjosyjhsrposgirgbisqoe
joqaabhhjfdbsfbjom.sAqosqocsdbqesvrnayscroebistdrri,sqocsuqhvshaiqgb
croebisirrt?—Qdrtvsvybib!spyjayspqc?”

“Ebqesvrsdbbpqie,shji.”

“Ngsybdu,svybo;sgjdbsrosvybshqjdsqmqjo,shyjgs bbgbih!serposvybsibhvsrt
vybshgqibsfrqvhsqoesijmsvybu—Ui.sHvqifna sqpqc,sqoesunhvbisvybsfrqv’h
aibph.”

“Dbvsubstjihvsybdgsvybbsvrpqiehsvybsfndpqi h,shji.”

“Ry,sry,sry!syrpsvyjhshgdjovbismribhsubsorp!sQaanihbestqvb!svyqvsvyb
noarolnbiqfdbsaqgvqjosjosvybshrndshyrndesyqzbshnaysqsaiqzbosuqvb!”

“Hji?”

“Ucsfrec,suqo,sorvsvybb.sMjzbsubshrubvyjomstrisqsaqob—vybib,svyqv
hyjzbibesdqoabspjddser.sUnhvbisvybsubo.sHnibdcsJsyqzbsorvshbbosyjuscbv.
Fcsybqzbosjvsaqoorvsfb!—ujhhjom?—lnja !saqddsvybusqdd.”

Vybsrdesuqo’hsyjovbesvyrnmyvspqhsvinb.sNgrosunhvbijomsvybsarugqoc,svyb
Gqihbbspqhsorvsvybib.

“VybsGqihbb!”saijbesHvnff—“ybsunhvsyqzbsfbbosaqnmyvsjo——”

“Vybsfdqa szrujvspiboaysvybb!—inosqddsrtscbsqfrzb,sqdrp,saqfjo,
tribaqhvdb—tjoesyju—orvsmrob—orvsmrob!”

Fnvslnja dcsvybcsibvniobesvrsyjuspjvysvybsvjejomhsvyqvsvybsGqihbbspqh
orpybibsvrsfbstrnoe.

“Qcb,shji,”shqjesHvnff—“aqnmyvsquromsvybsvqomdbhsrtscrnisdjob—Jsvyrnmyv
Jshqpsyjuseiqmmjomsnoebi.”

“_Uc_sdjob!s_uc_sdjob?sMrob?—mrob?sPyqvsubqohsvyqvsdjvvdbsprie?—Pyqv
ebqvy- obddsijomhsjosjv,svyqvsrdesQyqfshyq bhsqhsjtsybspbibsvybsfbdtic.
Vybsyqigrro,svrr!—vrhhsrzbisvybsdjvvbisvybib,—e’cbshbbsjv?—vybstrimbe
jiro,subo,svybspyjvbspyqdb’h—or,sor,sor,—fdjhvbibestrrd!svyjhsyqoeseje
eqivsjv!—’vjhsjosvybstjhy!—Qdrtvsvybib!s bbgsyjusoqjdbe—Lnja !—qdd
yqoehsvrsvybsijmmjomsrtsvybsfrqvh—arddbavsvybsrqih—yqigrrobbih!svyb
jiroh,svybsjiroh!—yrjhvsvybsircqdhsyjmybi—qsgnddsrosqddsvyb
hybbvh!—ybdusvybib!shvbqec,shvbqecstriscrnisdjtb!sJ’ddsvbosvjubhsmjiedb
vybsnoubqhnibesmdrfb;scbqsqoesejzbshviqjmyvsvyirnmysjv,sfnvsJ’ddshdqc
yjuscbv!”

“MibqvsMre!sfnvstrisrobshjomdbsjohvqovshyrpsvychbdt,”saijbesHvqifna ;
“obzbi,sobzbispjdvsvyrnsaqgvnibsyju,srdesuqo—JosKbhnh’soqubsorsuribsrt
vyjh,svyqv’hsprihbsvyqosebzjd’hsuqeobhh.sVprseqchsayqhbe;svpjabshvrzb
vrshgdjovbih;svycszbicsdbmsroabsuribshoqvaybestirusnoebisvybb;svycsbzjd
hyqerpsmrob—qddsmrresqombdhsurffjomsvybbspjvyspqiojomh:—pyqvsurib
prndehvsvyrnsyqzb?—Hyqddspbs bbgsayqhjomsvyjhsuniebirnhstjhysvjddsyb
hpqughsvybsdqhvsuqo?sHyqddspbsfbseiqmmbesfcsyjusvrsvybsfrvvrusrtsvyb
hbq?sHyqddspbsfbsvrpbesfcsyjusvrsvybsjotbioqdspride?sRy,sry,—Jugjbvc
qoesfdqhgybucsvrsynovsyjusurib!”

“Hvqifna ,srtsdqvbsJ’zbstbdvshviqombdcsurzbesvrsvybb;sbzbishjoabsvyqv
yrnispbsfrvyshqp—vyrns orp’hvspyqv,sjosrobsqorvybi’hsbcbh.sFnvsjosvyjh
uqvvbisrtsvybspyqdb,sfbsvybstirovsrtsvycstqabsvrsubsqhsvybsgqdusrtsvyjh
yqoe—qsdjgdbhh,snotbqvnibesfdqo .sQyqfsjhstrisbzbisQyqf,suqo.sVyjh
pyrdbsqav’hsjuunvqfdcsebaibbe.s’Vpqhsibybqihbesfcsvybbsqoesubsqsfjddjro
cbqihsfbtribsvyjhsrabqosirddbe.sTrrd!sJsqusvybsTqvbh’sdjbnvboqov;sJsqav
noebisriebih.sDrr svyrn,snoebidjom!svyqvsvyrnsrfbcbhvsujob.—Hvqoesirnoe
ub,subo.sCbshbbsqosrdesuqosanvserposvrsvybshvnug;sdbqojomsrosqshyjzbibe
dqoab;sgirggbesngsrosqsdrobdcstrrv.s’VjhsQyqf—yjhsfrec’hsgqiv;sfnv
Qyqf’hshrnd’hsqsabovjgbeb,svyqvsurzbhsngrosqsynoeibesdbmh.sJstbbd
hviqjobe,syqdtshviqoebe,sqhsirgbhsvyqvsvrpsejhuqhvbestijmqvbhsjosq
mqdb;sqoesJsuqcsdrr shr.sFnvsbibsJsfibq ,scb’ddsybqisubsaiqa ;sqoesvjdd
cbsybqis_vyqv_,s orpsvyqvsQyqf’hsyqphbisvrphsyjhsgnigrhbscbv.sFbdjbzb
cb,subo,sjosvybsvyjomhsaqddbesruboh?sVybosdqnmysqdrne,sqoesaicsboarib!
Trisbibsvybcseirpo,seirpojomsvyjomhspjddsvpjabsijhbsvrsvybshnitqab;
vybosijhbsqmqjo,svrshjo strisbzbiurib.sHrspjvysUrfcsEja —vprseqchsyb’h
tdrqvbe—vruriirpspjddsfbsvybsvyjie.sQcb,subo,syb’ddsijhbsroabsurib,—fnv
rodcsvrshgrnvsyjhsdqhv!sE’cbstbbdsfiqzbsubo,sfiqzb?”

“Qhstbqidbhhstjib,”saijbesHvnff.

“Qoesqhsubayqojaqd,”sunvvbibesQyqf.sVybosqhsvybsubospbovstripqie,syb
unvvbibesro:s“Vybsvyjomhsaqddbesruboh!sQoescbhvbieqcsJsvqd besvybshqub
vrsHvqifna svybib,saroabiojomsucsfir bosfrqv.sRy!syrpszqdjqovdcsJshbb 
vrseijzbsrnvsrtsrvybih’sybqivhspyqv’hsadjoaybeshrstqhvsjosujob!—Vyb
Gqihbb—vybsGqihbb!—mrob,smrob?sqoesybspqhsvrsmrsfbtrib:—fnvshvjddspqh
vrsfbshbbosqmqjosbibsJsarndesgbijhy—Yrp’hsvyqv?—Vybib’hsqsijeedbsorp
ujmyvsfqttdbsqddsvybsdqpcbihsfqa besfcsvybsmyrhvhsrtsvybspyrdbsdjobsrt
knembh:—dj bsqsyqp ’hsfbq sjvsgba hsucsfiqjo.s_J’dd_,s_J’dd_shrdzbsjv,
vyrnmy!”

Pybosenh sebhaboebe,svybspyqdbspqhshvjddsjoshjmyvsvrsdbbpqie.

Hrsroabsuribsvybshqjdspqhshyrivbobe,sqoesbzbicvyjomsgqhhbesobqidcsqhsro
vybsgibzjrnhsojmyv;srodc,svybshrnoesrtsyquubih,sqoesvybsynusrtsvyb
mijoehvrobspqhsybqiesvjddsobqidcseqcdjmyv,sqhsvybsubosvrjdbesfc
dqovbiohsjosvybsarugdbvbsqoesaqibtndsijmmjomsrtsvybshgqibsfrqvhsqoe
hyqigbojomsvybjistibhyspbqgrohstrisvybsuriirp.sUbqovjub,srtsvybsfir bo
 bbdsrtsQyqf’hspiba besaiqtvsvybsaqigbovbisuqebsyjusqorvybisdbm;spyjdb
hvjddsqhsrosvybsojmyvsfbtrib,shdrnaybesQyqfshvrrestjxbespjvyjosyjh
hanvvdb;syjhsyje,sybdjrvirgbsmdqoabsqovjajgqvjomdcsmrobsfqa pqiesrosjvh
ejqd;shqvsenbsbqhvpqiestrisvybsbqidjbhvshno.


AYQGVBIs135.sVybsAyqhb.—VyjiesEqc.

Vybsuriojomsrtsvybsvyjieseqcseqpobestqjisqoestibhy,sqoesroabsuribsvyb
hrdjvqicsojmyv-uqosqvsvybstrib-uqhv-ybqespqhsibdjbzbesfcsairpehsrtsvyb
eqcdjmyvsdrr -rnvh,spyrservvbesbzbicsuqhvsqoesqdurhvsbzbicshgqi.

“E’cbshbbsyju?”saijbesQyqf;sfnvsvybspyqdbspqhsorvscbvsjoshjmyv.

“Josyjhsjotqddjfdbspq b,svyrnmy;sfnvstrddrpsvyqvspq b,svyqv’hsqdd.sYbdu
vybib;shvbqec,sqhsvyrnsmrbhv,sqoesyqhvsfbbosmrjom.sPyqvsqsdrzbdcseqc
qmqjo!spbibsjvsqsobp-uqebspride,sqoesuqebstrisqshnuubi-yrnhbsvrsvyb
qombdh,sqoesvyjhsuriojomsvybstjihvsrtsjvhsvyirpjomsrgbosvrsvybu,sq
tqjibiseqcsarndesorvseqposngrosvyqvspride.sYbib’hstrrestrisvyrnmyv,syqe
Qyqfsvjubsvrsvyjo ;sfnvsQyqfsobzbisvyjo h;sybsrodcstbbdh,stbbdh,stbbdh;
_vyqv’h_svjomdjomsbornmystrisurivqdsuqo!svrsvyjo ’hsqneqajvc.sMresrodc
yqhsvyqvsijmyvsqoesgijzjdbmb.sVyjo jomsjh,srisrnmyvsvrsfb,sqsarrdobhh
qoesqsaqduobhh;sqoesrnisgrrisybqivhsvyirf,sqoesrnisgrrisfiqjohsfbqvsvrr
unaystrisvyqv.sQoescbv,sJ’zbshrubvjubhsvyrnmyvsucsfiqjospqhszbic
aqdu—tirwbosaqdu,svyjhsrdesh nddsaiqa hshr,sdj bsqsmdqhhsjospyjaysvyb
arovbovhsvniobesvrsjab,sqoeshyjzbisjv.sQoeshvjddsvyjhsyqjisjhsmirpjom
orp;svyjhsurubovsmirpjom,sqoesybqvsunhvsfibbesjv;sfnvsor,sjv’hsdj b
vyqvshrivsrtsaruurosmiqhhsvyqvspjddsmirpsqocpybib,sfbvpbbosvybsbqivyc
adbtvhsrtsMibbodqoesjabsrisjosZbhnzjnhsdqzq.sYrpsvybspjdespjoehsfdrp
jv;svybcspyjgsjvsqfrnvsubsqhsvybsvrioshyibehsrtshgdjvshqjdhsdqhysvyb
vrhhbeshyjgsvybcsadjomsvr.sQszjdbspjoesvyqvsyqhsorsernfvsfdrposbibsvyjh
vyirnmysgijhrosariijerihsqoesabddh,sqoespqiehsrtsyrhgjvqdh,sqoe
zbovjdqvbesvybu,sqoesorpsarubhsfdrpjomsyjvybisqhsjoorabovsqhstdbbabh.
Rnvsngrosjv!—jv’hsvqjovbe.sPbibsJsvybspjoe,sJ’esfdrpsorsuribsroshnaysq
pja be,sujhbiqfdbspride.sJ’esaiqpdshrubpybibsvrsqsaqzb,sqoeshdjo 
vybib.sQoescbv,s’vjhsqsorfdbsqoesybirjasvyjom,svybspjoe!spyrsbzbi
arolnbibesjv?sJosbzbicstjmyvsjvsyqhsvybsdqhvsqoesfjvvbibhvsfdrp.sIno
vjdvjomsqvsjv,sqoescrnsfnvsinosvyirnmysjv.sYq!sqsarpqiespjoesvyqv
hvij bhshvqi soq besubo,sfnvspjddsorvshvqoesvrsibabjzbsqshjomdbsfdrp.
BzbosQyqfsjhsqsfiqzbisvyjom—qsorfdbisvyjomsvyqos_vyqv_.sPrndesorpsvyb
pjoesfnvsyqesqsfrec;sfnvsqddsvybsvyjomhsvyqvsurhvsbxqhgbiqvbsqoe
rnviqmbsurivqdsuqo,sqddsvybhbsvyjomhsqibsfrejdbhh,sfnvsrodcsfrejdbhhsqh
rfkbavh,sorvsqhsqmbovh.sVybib’hsqsurhvshgbajqd,sqsurhvsanoojom,sry,sq
urhvsuqdjajrnhsejttbiboab!sQoescbv,sJshqcsqmqjo,sqoeshpbqisjvsorp,svyqv
vybib’hshrubvyjomsqddsmdrijrnhsqoesmiqajrnhsjosvybspjoe.sVybhbspqiu
ViqebsPjoeh,sqvsdbqhv,svyqvsjosvybsadbqisybqzbohsfdrpshviqjmyvsro,sjo
hviromsqoeshvbqetqhv,szjmrirnhsujdeobhh;sqoeszbbisorvstirusvybjisuqi ,
yrpbzbisvybsfqhbisaniibovhsrtsvybshbqsuqcsvniosqoesvqa ,sqoesujmyvjbhv
Ujhhjhhjggjbhsrtsvybsdqoeshpjtvsqoeshpbizbsqfrnv,snoabivqjospybibsvrsmr
qvsdqhv.sQoesfcsvybsbvbioqdsGrdbh!svybhbshqubsViqebhsvyqvshrsejibavdc
fdrpsucsmrreshyjgsro;svybhbsViqebh,srishrubvyjomsdj bsvybu—hrubvyjomshr
noayqombqfdb,sqoestnddsqhshvirom,sfdrpsucs bbdbeshrndsqdrom!sVrsjv!
Qdrtvsvybib!sPyqvse’cbshbb?”

“Orvyjom,shji.”

“Orvyjom!sqoesorrosqvsyqoe!sVybsernfdrrosmrbhsq-fbmmjom!sHbbsvybshno!
Qcb,sqcb,sjvsunhvsfbshr.sJ’zbsrzbihqjdbesyju.sYrp,smrvsvybshvqiv?sQcb,
yb’hsayqhjoms_ub_sorp;sorvsJ,s_yju_—vyqv’hsfqe;sJsujmyvsyqzbs orposjv,
vrr.sTrrd!svybsdjobh—vybsyqigrrohsyb’hsvrpjom.sQcb,sqcb,sJsyqzbsinosyju
fcsdqhvsojmyv.sQfrnv!sqfrnv!sArubserpo,sqddsrtscb,sfnvsvybsibmndqisdrr 
rnvh!sUqosvybsfiqabh!”

Hvbbijomsqhshybsyqeserob,svybspjoesyqesfbboshrubpyqvsrosvybsGblnre’h
lnqivbi,shrsvyqvsorpsfbjomsgrjovbesjosvybsibzbihbsejibavjro,svybsfiqabe
hyjgshqjdbesyqiesngrosvybsfibbwbsqhshybsibayniobesvybsaibqusjosybisrpo
pyjvbspq b.

“Qmqjohvsvybspjoesybsorpshvbbihstrisvybsrgboskqp,”suniunibesHvqifna svr
yjuhbdt,sqhsybsarjdbesvybsobp-yqndbesuqjo-fiqabsngrosvybsiqjd.s“Mre
 bbgsnh,sfnvsqdibqecsucsfrobhstbbdsequgspjvyjosub,sqoestirusvybsjohjeb
pbvsucstdbhy.sJsujhernfvsubsvyqvsJsejhrfbcsucsMresjosrfbcjomsyju!”

“Hvqoesfcsvrshpqcsubsng!”saijbesQyqf,sqezqoajomsvrsvybsybugbosfqh bv.
“Pbshyrndesubbvsyjushrro.”

“Qcb,sqcb,shji,”sqoeshviqjmyvpqcsHvqifna sejesQyqf’hsfjeejom,sqoesroab
uribsQyqfshpnomsrosyjmy.

Qspyrdbsyrnisorpsgqhhbe;smrde-fbqvbosrnvsvrsqmbh.sVjubsjvhbdtsorpsybde
dromsfibqvyhspjvys bboshnhgbohb.sFnvsqvsdqhv,shrubsvyibbsgrjovhsrttsvyb
pbqvybisfrp,sQyqfsebhaijbesvybshgrnvsqmqjo,sqoesjohvqovdcstirusvyb
vyibbsuqhv-ybqehsvyibbshyijb hspbovsngsqhsjtsvybsvromnbhsrtstjibsyqe
zrjabesjv.

“TribybqesvrstribybqesJsubbvsvybb,svyjhsvyjiesvjub,sUrfcsEja !sRoseba 
vybib!—fiqabshyqigbisng;sairpesybisjovrsvybspjoe’hsbcb.sYb’hsvrrstqi
rttsvrsdrpbiscbv,sUi.sHvqifna .sVybshqjdhshyq b!sHvqoesrzbisvyqv
ybduhuqospjvysqsvrg-uqnd!sHr,shr;sybsviqzbdhstqhv,sqoesJsunhvserpo.sFnv
dbvsubsyqzbsrobsuribsmrresirnoesdrr sqdrtvsybibsqvsvybshbq;svybib’h
vjubstrisvyqv.sQosrde,srdeshjmyv,sqoescbvshrubyrpshrscrnom;sqcb,sqoe
orvsayqombesqspjo shjoabsJstjihvshqpsjv,sqsfrc,stirusvybshqoe-yjddhsrt
Oqovna bv!sVybshqub!—vybshqub!—vybshqubsvrsOrqysqhsvrsub.sVybib’hsq
hrtvshyrpbisvrsdbbpqie.sHnaysdrzbdcsdbbpqiejomh!sVybcsunhvsdbqe
hrubpybib—vrshrubvyjomsbdhbsvyqosaruurosdqoe,suribsgqducsvyqosvyb
gqduh.sDbbpqie!svybspyjvbspyqdbsmrbhsvyqvspqc;sdrr svrspjoepqie,svybo;
vybsfbvvbisjtsvybsfjvvbibislnqivbi.sFnvsmrresfcb,smrresfcb,srde
uqhv-ybqe!sPyqv’hsvyjh?—mibbo?sqcb,svjocsurhhbhsjosvybhbspqigbesaiqa h.
OrshnaysmibbospbqvybishvqjohsrosQyqf’hsybqe!sVybib’hsvybsejttbiboabsorp
fbvpbbosuqo’hsrdesqmbsqoesuqvvbi’h.sFnvsqcb,srdesuqhv,spbsfrvysmirpsrde
vrmbvybi;shrnoesjosrnisynddh,svyrnmy,sqibspbsorv,sucshyjg?sQcb,sujonhsq
dbm,svyqv’hsqdd.sFcsybqzbosvyjhsebqesprresyqhsvybsfbvvbisrtsucsdjzb
tdbhysbzbicspqc.sJsaqo’vsarugqibspjvysjv;sqoesJ’zbs orposhrubshyjgh
uqebsrtsebqesvibbhsrnvdqhvsvybsdjzbhsrtsubosuqebsrtsvybsurhvszjvqd
hvnttsrtszjvqdstqvybih.sPyqv’hsvyqvsybshqje?sybshyrndeshvjddsmrsfbtrib
ub,sucsgjdrv;sqoescbvsvrsfbshbbosqmqjo?sFnvspybib?sPjddsJsyqzbsbcbhsqv
vybsfrvvrusrtsvybshbq,shnggrhjomsJsebhaboesvyrhbsboedbhhshvqjih?sqoe
qddsojmyvsJ’zbsfbboshqjdjomstirusyju,spybibzbisybsejeshjo svr.sQcb,
qcb,sdj bsuqocsuribsvyrnsvrde’hvsejibtndsvinvysqhsvrnayjomsvychbdt,sR
Gqihbb;sfnv,sQyqf,svybibsvycshyrvstbddshyriv.sMrre-fcb,suqhv-ybqe— bbg
qsmrresbcbsngrosvybspyqdb,svybspyjdbsJ’usmrob.sPb’ddsvqd svr-uriirp,
oqc,svr-ojmyv,spybosvybspyjvbspyqdbsdjbhserposvybib,svjbesfcsybqesqoe
vqjd.”

Ybsmqzbsvybsprie;sqoeshvjddsmqwjomsirnoesyju,spqhshvbqejdcsdrpbibe
vyirnmysvybsadrzbosfdnbsqjisvrsvybseba .

Josenbsvjubsvybsfrqvhspbibsdrpbibe;sfnvsqhshvqoejomsjosyjhshyqddrg’h
hvbio,sQyqfsknhvsyrzbibesngrosvybsgrjovsrtsvybsebhabov,sybspqzbesvrsvyb
uqvb,—pyrsybdesrobsrtsvybsvqa db-irgbhsroseba —qoesfqebsyjusgqnhb.

“Hvqifna !”

“Hji?”

“Trisvybsvyjiesvjubsucshrnd’hshyjgshvqivhsngrosvyjhszrcqmb,sHvqifna .”

“Qcb,shji,svyrnspjdvsyqzbsjvshr.”

“Hrubshyjghshqjdstirusvybjisgrivh,sqoesbzbisqtvbipqiehsqibsujhhjom,
Hvqifna !”

“Vinvy,shji:shqeebhvsvinvy.”

“Hrubsubosejbsqvsbffsvjeb;shrubsqvsdrpspqvbi;shrubsqvsvybstnddsrtsvyb
tdrre;—qoesJstbbdsorpsdj bsqsfjddrpsvyqv’hsqddsrobsaibhvbesaruf,
Hvqifna .sJsqusrde;—hyq bsyqoehspjvysub,suqo.”

Vybjisyqoehsubv;svybjisbcbhstqhvbobe;sHvqifna ’hsvbqihsvybsmdnb.

“Ry,sucsaqgvqjo,sucsaqgvqjo!—orfdbsybqiv—mrsorv—mrsorv!—hbb,sjv’hsq
fiqzbsuqosvyqvspbbgh;syrpsmibqvsvybsqmrocsrtsvybsgbihnqhjrosvybo!”

“Drpbisqpqc!”—aijbesQyqf,svrhhjomsvybsuqvb’hsqiustirusyju.s“Hvqoesfc
vybsaibp!”

Josqosjohvqovsvybsfrqvspqhsgnddjomsirnoesadrhbsnoebisvybshvbio.

“Vybshyqi h!svybshyqi h!”saijbesqszrjabstirusvybsdrpsaqfjo-pjoerp
vybib;s“Rsuqhvbi,sucsuqhvbi,sarubsfqa !”

FnvsQyqfsybqiesorvyjom;strisyjhsrposzrjabspqhsyjmy-djtvbesvybo;sqoesvyb
frqvsdbqgbesro.

Cbvsvybszrjabshgq bsvinb;strishaqiabsyqesybsgnhybestirusvybshyjg,spybo
onufbihsrtshyqi h,shbbujomdcsijhjomstirusrnvsvybseqi spqvbihsfbobqvy
vybsyndd,suqdjajrnhdcshoqggbesqvsvybsfdqebhsrtsvybsrqih,sbzbicsvjub
vybcsejggbesjosvybspqvbi;sqoesjosvyjhspqcsqaarugqojbesvybsfrqvspjvy
vybjisfjvbh.sJvsjhsqsvyjomsorvsnoaruurodcsyqggbojomsvrsvybspyqdb-frqvh
josvyrhbshpqiujomshbqh;svybshyqi hsqvsvjubhsqggqibovdcstrddrpjomsvybu
josvybshqubsgibhajbovspqcsvyqvszndvnibhsyrzbisrzbisvybsfqoobihsrt
uqiayjomsibmjubovhsjosvybsbqhv.sFnvsvybhbspbibsvybstjihvshyqi hsvyqv
yqesfbbosrfhbizbesfcsvybsGblnreshjoabsvybsPyjvbsPyqdbsyqesfbbostjihv
ebhaijbe;sqoespybvybisjvspqhsvyqvsQyqf’hsaibpspbibsqddshnay
vjmbi-cbddrpsfqifqijqoh,sqoesvybibtribsvybjistdbhysuribsunh csvrsvyb
hbohbhsrtsvybshyqi h—qsuqvvbishrubvjubhspbdds orposvrsqttbav
vybu,—yrpbzbisjvspqh,svybcshbbubesvrstrddrpsvyqvsrobsfrqvspjvyrnv
urdbhvjomsvybsrvybih.

“Ybqivsrtspirnmyvshvbbd!”suniunibesHvqifna smqwjomsrzbisvybshjeb,sqoe
trddrpjomspjvysyjhsbcbhsvybsibabejomsfrqv—“aqohvsvyrnscbvsijomsfrdedc
vrsvyqvshjmyv?—drpbijomsvycs bbdsquromsiqzbojomshyqi h,sqoestrddrpbesfc
vybu,srgbo-urnvybesvrsvybsayqhb;sqoesvyjhsvybsaijvjaqdsvyjieseqc?—Tri
pybosvyibbseqchstdrpsvrmbvybisjosrobsarovjonrnhsjovbohbsgnihnjv;sfb
hnibsvybstjihvsjhsvybsuriojom,svybshbaroesvybsorro,sqoesvybsvyjiesvyb
bzbojomsqoesvybsboesrtsvyqvsvyjom—fbsvyqvsboespyqvsjvsuqc.sRy!sucsMre!
pyqvsjhsvyjhsvyqvshyrrvhsvyirnmysub,sqoesdbqzbhsubshrsebqedcsaqdu,scbv
bxgbavqov,—tjxbesqvsvybsvrgsrtsqshyneebi!sTnvnibsvyjomhshpjusfbtribsub,
qhsjosbugvcsrnvdjobhsqoesh bdbvroh;sqddsvybsgqhvsjhshrubyrpsmirposeju.
Uqic,smjid!svyrnstqebhvsjosgqdbsmdrijbhsfbyjoesub;sfrc!sJshbbusvrshbb
fnvsvycsbcbhsmirposproeirnhsfdnb.sHviqombhvsgirfdbuhsrtsdjtbshbbu
adbqijom;sfnvsadrnehshpbbgsfbvpbbo—Jhsucskrniobc’hsboesarujom?sUcsdbmh
tbbdstqjov;sdj bsyjhspyrsyqhstrrvbesjvsqddseqc.sTbbdsvycsybqiv,—fbqvh
jvscbv?sHvjisvychbdt,sHvqifna !—hvqzbsjvsrtt—urzb,surzb!shgbq 
qdrne!—Uqhv-ybqesvybib!sHbbscbsucsfrc’hsyqoesrosvybsyjdd?—Aiqwbe;—qdrtv
vybib!— bbgsvycs bbobhvsbcbsngrosvybsfrqvh:—uqi spbddsvybspyqdb!—Yr!
qmqjo!—eijzbsrttsvyqvsyqp !shbb!sybsgba h—ybsvbqihsvybszqob”—grjovjom
vrsvybsibestdqmstdcjomsqvsvybsuqjo-vina —“Yq!sybshrqihsqpqcspjvy
jv!—Pybib’hsvybsrdesuqosorp?shbb’hvsvyrnsvyqvshjmyv,srysQyqf!—hyneebi,
hyneebi!”

Vybsfrqvhsyqesorvsmrobszbicstqi,spybosfcsqshjmoqdstirusvybsuqhv-ybqeh—q
erpopqiesgrjovbesqiu,sQyqfs obpsvyqvsvybspyqdbsyqeshrnoebe;sfnv
jovboejomsvrsfbsobqisyjusqvsvybsobxvsijhjom,sybsybdesrosyjhspqcsq
djvvdbshjebpqchstirusvybszbhhbd;svybsfbayqiubesaibpsuqjovqjojomsvyb
girtrnoebhvshjdboab,sqhsvybsybqe-fbqvspqzbhsyquubibesqoesyquubibe
qmqjohvsvybsrggrhjomsfrp.

“Eijzb,seijzbsjoscrnisoqjdh,sryscbspqzbh!svrsvybjisnvvbiurhvsybqeh
eijzbsvybusjo!scbsfnvshvij bsqsvyjomspjvyrnvsqsdje;sqoesorsarttjosqoe
orsybqihbsaqosfbsujob:—qoesybugsrodcsaqos jddsub!sYq!syq!”

Hneebodcsvybspqvbihsqirnoesvybushdrpdcshpbddbesjosfirqesajiadbh;svybo
lnja dcsngybqzbe,sqhsjtshjebpqchshdjejomstirusqshnfubimbesfbimsrtsjab,
hpjtvdcsijhjomsvrsvybshnitqab.sQsdrpsinufdjomshrnoespqhsybqie;sq
hnfvbiiqobrnhsynu;sqoesvybosqddsybdesvybjisfibqvyh;sqhsfbeiqmmdbespjvy
viqjdjomsirgbh,sqoesyqigrroh,sqoesdqoabh,sqszqhvstriushyrvsdbomvypjhb,
fnvsrfdjlnbdcstirusvybshbq.sHyirnebesjosqsvyjoseirrgjomszbjdsrtsujhv,
jvsyrzbibestrisqsurubovsjosvybsiqjofrpbesqji;sqoesvybostbddshpqugjom
fqa sjovrsvybsebbg.sAinhybesvyjivcstbbvsngpqieh,svybspqvbihstdqhybestri
qosjohvqovsdj bsybqghsrtstrnovqjoh,svybosfir bodcshqo sjosqshyrpbisrt
tdq bh,sdbqzjomsvybsajiadjomshnitqabsaibqubesdj bsobpsujd sirnoesvyb
uqifdbsvino srtsvybspyqdb.

“Mjzbspqc!”saijbesQyqfsvrsvybsrqihubo,sqoesvybsfrqvhseqivbestripqiesvr
vybsqvvqa ;sfnvsuqeebobesfcscbhvbieqc’hstibhysjirohsvyqvsariirebesjo
yju,sUrfcsEja shbbubesarufjobedcsgrhhbhhbesfcsqddsvybsqombdhsvyqvstbdd
tirusybqzbo.sVybspjebsvjbihsrtspbdebesvboerohsrzbihgibqejomsyjhsfirqe
pyjvbstribybqe,sfbobqvysvybsviqohgqibovsh jo,sdrr bes ojvvbesvrmbvybi;
qhsybqesro,sybsaqubsayniojomsyjhsvqjdsquromsvybsfrqvh;sqoesroabsurib
tdqjdbesvybusqgqiv;shgjddjomsrnvsvybsjirohsqoesdqoabhstirusvybsvpr
uqvbh’sfrqvh,sqoeseqhyjomsjosrobshjebsrtsvybsnggbisgqivsrtsvybjisfrph,
fnvsdbqzjomsQyqf’hsqdurhvspjvyrnvsqshaqi.

PyjdbsEqmmrrsqoesLnbblnbmspbibshvrggjomsvybshviqjobesgdqo h;sqoesqhsvyb
pyqdbshpjuujomsrnvstirusvybu,svniobe,sqoeshyrpbesrobsbovjibstdqo sqhsyb
hyrvsfcsvybusqmqjo;sqvsvyqvsurubovsqslnja saicspbovsng.sDqhybesirnoe
qoesirnoesvrsvybstjhy’hsfqa ;sgjojrobesjosvybsvniohsngrosvniohsjo
pyjay,senijomsvybsgqhvsojmyv,svybspyqdbsyqesibbdbesvybsjozrdnvjrohsrt
vybsdjobhsqirnoesyju,svybsyqdtsvriosfrecsrtsvybsGqihbbspqhshbbo;syjh
hqfdbsiqjubovstiqcbesvrshyibeh;syjhsejhvboebesbcbhsvniobestnddsngrosrde
Qyqf.

Vybsyqigrroseirggbestirusyjhsyqoe.

“Fbtrrdbe,sfbtrrdbe!”—eiqpjomsjosqsdromsdbqosfibqvy—“Qcb,sGqihbb!sJshbb
vybbsqmqjo.—Qcb,sqoesvyrnsmrbhvsfbtrib;sqoesvyjh,s_vyjh_svybosjhsvyb
ybqihbsvyqvsvyrnsejehvsgirujhb.sFnvsJsyrdesvybbsvrsvybsdqhvsdbvvbisrt
vycsprie.sPybibsjhsvybshbaroesybqihb?sQpqc,suqvbh,svrsvybshyjg!svyrhb
frqvhsqibsnhbdbhhsorp;sibgqjisvybusjtscbsaqosjosvjub,sqoesibvniosvrsub;
jtsorv,sQyqfsjhsbornmysvrsejb—Erpo,subo!svybstjihvsvyjomsvyqvsfnv
rttbihsvrsknugstirusvyjhsfrqvsJshvqoesjo,svyqvsvyjomsJsyqigrro.sCbsqib
orvsrvybisubo,sfnvsucsqiuhsqoesucsdbmh;sqoeshrsrfbcsub.—Pybib’hsvyb
pyqdb?smrobserposqmqjo?”

Fnvsybsdrr besvrrsojmysvybsfrqv;strisqhsjtsfbovsngrosbhaqgjomspjvysvyb
arighbsybsfrib,sqoesqhsjtsvybsgqivjandqisgdqabsrtsvybsdqhvsboarnovbi
yqesfbbosfnvsqshvqmbsjosyjhsdbbpqieszrcqmb,sUrfcsEja spqhsorpsqmqjo
hvbqejdcshpjuujomstripqie;sqoesyqesqdurhvsgqhhbesvybshyjg,—pyjaysvynh
tqisyqesfbboshqjdjomsjosvybsaroviqicsejibavjrosvrsyju,svyrnmystrisvyb
gibhbovsybisybqepqcsyqesfbboshvrggbe.sYbshbbubeshpjuujomspjvysyjh
nvurhvszbdrajvc,sqoesorpsrodcsjovbovsngrosgnihnjomsyjhsrposhviqjmyv
gqvysjosvybshbq.

“Ry!sQyqf,”saijbesHvqifna ,s“orvsvrrsdqvbsjhsjv,sbzbosorp,svybsvyjie
eqc,svrsebhjhv.sHbb!sUrfcsEja shbb hsvybbsorv.sJvsjhsvyrn,svyrn,svyqv
uqedcshbb bhvsyju!”

Hbvvjomshqjdsvrsvybsijhjomspjoe,svybsdrobdcsfrqvspqhshpjtvdcsjugbddbe
vrsdbbpqie,sfcsfrvysrqihsqoesaqozqh.sQoesqvsdqhvspybosQyqfspqhshdjejom
fcsvybszbhhbd,shrsobqisqhsgdqjodcsvrsejhvjomnjhysHvqifna ’hstqabsqhsyb
dbqobesrzbisvybsiqjd,sybsyqjdbesyjusvrsvniosvybszbhhbdsqfrnv,sqoe
trddrpsyju,sorvsvrrshpjtvdc,sqvsqsknejajrnhsjovbizqd.sMdqoajomsngpqieh,
ybshqpsVqhyvbmr,sLnbblnbm,sqoesEqmmrr,sbqmbidcsurnovjomsvrsvybsvyibb
uqhv-ybqeh;spyjdbsvybsrqihubospbibsira jomsjosvybsvprshvqzbesfrqvh
pyjaysyqesfnvsknhvsfbbosyrjhvbesvrsvybshjeb,sqoespbibsfnhjdcsqvspri sjo
ibgqjijomsvybu.sRobsqtvbisvybsrvybi,svyirnmysvybsgriv-yrdbh,sqhsyb
hgbe,sybsqdhrsaqnmyvstdcjomsmdjughbhsrtsHvnffsqoesTdqh ,sfnhcjom
vybuhbdzbhsroseba squromsfnoedbhsrtsobpsjirohsqoesdqoabh.sQhsybshqpsqdd
vyjh;sqhsybsybqiesvybsyquubihsjosvybsfir bosfrqvh;stqisrvybisyquubih
hbbubeseijzjomsqsoqjdsjovrsyjhsybqiv.sFnvsybsiqddjbe.sQoesorpsuqi jom
vyqvsvybszqobsristdqmspqhsmrobstirusvybsuqjo-uqhv-ybqe,sybshyrnvbesvr
Vqhyvbmr,spyrsyqesknhvsmqjobesvyqvsgbiay,svrsebhaboesqmqjostrisqorvybi
tdqm,sqoesqsyquubisqoesoqjdh,sqoeshrsoqjdsjvsvrsvybsuqhv.

Pybvybistqmmbesfcsvybsvyibbseqch’sinoojomsayqhb,sqoesvybsibhjhvqoabsvr
yjhshpjuujomsjosvybs orvvbesyqugbisybsfrib;srispybvybisjvspqhshrub
dqvbovsebabjvtndobhhsqoesuqdjabsjosyju:spyjaybzbispqhsvinb,svybsPyjvb
Pyqdb’hspqcsorpsfbmqosvrsqfqvb,sqhsjvshbbube,stirusvybsfrqvshrsiqgjedc
obqijomsyjusroabsurib;svyrnmysjoebbesvybspyqdb’hsdqhvshvqivsyqesorv
fbboshrsdromsqsrobsqhsfbtrib.sQoeshvjddsqhsQyqfsmdjebesrzbisvybspqzbh
vybsnogjvcjomshyqi hsqaarugqojbesyju;sqoeshrsgbivjoqajrnhdcshvna svr
vybsfrqv;sqoeshrsarovjonqddcsfjvsqvsvybsgdcjomsrqih,svyqvsvybsfdqebh
fbaqubskqmmbesqoesainoaybe,sqoesdbtvshuqddshgdjovbihsjosvybshbq,sqv
qdurhvsbzbicsejg.

“Ybbesvybusorv!svyrhbsvbbvysfnvsmjzbsobpsirpdra hsvrscrnisrqih.sGndd
ro!s’vjhsvybsfbvvbisibhv,svybshyqi ’hskqpsvyqosvybscjbdejomspqvbi.”

“Fnvsqvsbzbicsfjvb,shji,svybsvyjosfdqebhsmirpshuqddbisqoeshuqddbi!”

“Vybcspjddsdqhvsdromsbornmy!sgnddsro!—Fnvspyrsaqosvbdd”—yb
unvvbibe—“pybvybisvybhbshyqi hshpjusvrstbqhvsrosvybspyqdbsrisro
Qyqf?—Fnvsgnddsro!sQcb,sqddsqdjzb,sorp—pbsobqisyju.sVybsybdu!svq bsvyb
ybdu!sdbvsubsgqhh,”—qoeshrshqcjomsvprsrtsvybsrqihubosybdgbesyjustripqie
vrsvybsfrphsrtsvybshvjddstdcjomsfrqv.

Qvsdbomvysqhsvybsaiqtvspqhsaqhvsvrsrobshjeb,sqoesiqosiqomjomsqdromspjvy
vybsPyjvbsPyqdb’hstdqo ,sybshbbubeshviqombdcsrfdjzjrnhsrtsjvh
qezqoab—qhsvybspyqdbshrubvjubhspjdd—qoesQyqfspqhstqjidcspjvyjosvyb
hur csurnovqjosujhv,spyjay,svyirposrttstirusvybspyqdb’hshgrnv,sanidbe
irnoesyjhsmibqv,sUroqeora synug;sybspqhsbzbosvynhsadrhbsvrsyju;spybo,
pjvysfrecsqiaybesfqa ,sqoesfrvysqiuhsdbomvypjhbsyjmy-djtvbesvrsvyb
grjhb,sybseqivbesyjhstjbiabsjiro,sqoesyjhstqistjbiabisanihbsjovrsvyb
yqvbespyqdb.sQhsfrvyshvbbdsqoesanihbshqo svrsvybshra bv,sqhsjtshna be
jovrsqsuriqhh,sUrfcsEja shjebpqchspijvybe;shgqhurejaqddcsirddbesyjh
ojmystdqo sqmqjohvsvybsfrp,sqoe,spjvyrnvshvqzjomsqsyrdbsjosjv,shr
hneebodcsaqovbesvybsfrqvsrzbi,svyqvsyqesjvsorvsfbbostrisvybsbdbzqvbe
gqivsrtsvybsmnopqdbsvrspyjaysybsvybosadnom,sQyqfsprndesroabsuribsyqzb
fbbosvrhhbesjovrsvybshbq.sQhsjvspqh,svyibbsrtsvybsrqihubo—pyrstrib obp
orvsvybsgibajhbsjohvqovsrtsvybseqiv,sqoespbibsvybibtribsnogibgqibestri
jvhsbttbavh—vybhbspbibstdnomsrnv;sfnvshrstbdd,svyqv,sjosqosjohvqovsvpr
rtsvybusadnvaybesvybsmnopqdbsqmqjo,sqoesijhjomsvrsjvhsdbzbdsrosq
arufjomspqzb,synidbesvybuhbdzbhsfrejdcsjofrqiesqmqjo;svybsvyjiesuqo
ybdgdbhhdcseirggjomsqhvbio,sfnvshvjddsqtdrqvsqoeshpjuujom.

Qdurhvshjundvqobrnhdc,spjvysqsujmyvcszrdjvjrosrtsnomiqenqvbe,
johvqovqobrnhshpjtvobhh,svybsPyjvbsPyqdbseqivbesvyirnmysvybspbdvbijom
hbq.sFnvspybosQyqfsaijbesrnvsvrsvybshvbbihuqosvrsvq bsobpsvniohspjvy
vybsdjob,sqoesyrdesjvshr;sqoesaruuqoebesvybsaibpsvrsvniosirnoesrosvybji
hbqvh,sqoesvrpsvybsfrqvsngsvrsvybsuqi ;svybsurubovsvybsvibqaybirnhsdjob
tbdvsvyqvsernfdbshviqjosqoesvnm,sjvshoqggbesjosvybsbugvcsqji!

“Pyqvsfibq hsjosub?sHrubshjobpsaiqa h!—’vjhspyrdbsqmqjo;srqih!srqih!
Fnihvsjosngrosyju!”

Ybqijomsvybsvibuboernhsinhysrtsvybshbq-aiqhyjomsfrqv,svybspyqdbspybbdbe
irnoesvrsgibhbovsyjhsfdqo stribybqesqvsfqc;sfnvsjosvyqvsbzrdnvjro,
aqvayjomshjmyvsrtsvybsobqijomsfdqa synddsrtsvybshyjg;shbbujomdcshbbjom
josjvsvybshrniabsrtsqddsyjhsgbihbanvjroh;sfbvyjo jomsjv—jvsuqcsfb—q
dqimbisqoesorfdbistrb;srtsqshneebo,sybsfribserposngrosjvhsqezqoajom
girp,shujvjomsyjhskqphsqujestjbicshyrpbihsrtstrqu.

Qyqfshvqmmbibe;syjhsyqoeshurvbsyjhstribybqe.s“Jsmirpsfdjoe;syqoeh!
hvibvaysrnvsfbtribsubsvyqvsJsuqcscbvsmirgbsucspqc.sJh’vsojmyv?”

“Vybspyqdb!sVybshyjg!”saijbesvybsaijomjomsrqihubo.

“Rqih!srqih!sHdrgbserpopqiehsvrsvycsebgvyh,sRshbq,svyqvsbibsjvsfbstri
bzbisvrrsdqvb,sQyqfsuqcshdjebsvyjhsdqhv,sdqhvsvjubsngrosyjhsuqi !sJ
hbb:svybshyjg!svybshyjg!sEqhysro,sucsubo!sPjddscbsorvshqzbsucshyjg?”

Fnvsqhsvybsrqihuboszjrdbovdcstriabesvybjisfrqvsvyirnmysvyb
hdbemb-yquubijomshbqh,svybsfbtribspyqdb-hujvvbosfrp-boehsrtsvprsgdqo h
fnihvsvyirnmy,sqoesjosqosjohvqovsqdurhv,svybsvbugriqijdcsejhqfdbesfrqv
dqcsobqidcsdbzbdspjvysvybspqzbh;sjvhsyqdt-pqejom,shgdqhyjomsaibp,
vicjomsyqiesvrshvrgsvybsmqgsqoesfqdbsrnvsvybsgrnijomspqvbi.

Ubqovjub,strisvyqvsrobsfbyrdejomsjohvqov,sVqhyvbmr’hsuqhv-ybqesyquubi
ibuqjobeshnhgboebesjosyjhsyqoe;sqoesvybsibestdqm,syqdt-piqggjomsyjusqh
pjvysqsgdqje,svyboshvibqubesjvhbdtshviqjmyvsrnvstirusyju,sqhsyjhsrpo
tripqie-tdrpjomsybqiv;spyjdbsHvqifna sqoesHvnff,shvqoejomsngrosvyb
frphgijvsfbobqvy,saqnmyvshjmyvsrtsvybserpo-arujomsurohvbisknhvsqhshrro
qhsyb.

“Vybspyqdb,svybspyqdb!sNgsybdu,sngsybdu!sRy,sqddscbshpbbvsgrpbihsrt
qji,sorpsynmsubsadrhb!sDbvsorvsHvqifna sejb,sjtsejbsybsunhv,sjosq
pruqo’hstqjovjomstjv.sNgsybdu,sJshqc—cbstrrdh,svybskqp!svybskqp!sJh
vyjhsvybsboesrtsqddsucsfnihvjomsgiqcbih?sqddsucsdjtb-dromstjebdjvjbh?
Ry,sQyqf,sQyqf,sdr,svycspri .sHvbqec!sybduhuqo,shvbqec.sOqc,soqc!sNg
ybdusqmqjo!sYbsvniohsvrsubbvsnh!sRy,syjhsnoqggbqhqfdbsfirpseijzbhsro
vrpqiehsrob,spyrhbsenvcsvbddhsyjusybsaqoorvsebgqiv.sUcsMre,shvqoesfcsub
orp!”

“Hvqoesorvsfcsub,sfnvshvqoesnoebisub,spyrbzbiscrnsqibsvyqvspjddsorp
ybdgsHvnff;strisHvnff,svrr,shvja hsybib.sJsmijosqvsvybb,svyrnsmijoojom
pyqdb!sPyrsbzbisybdgbesHvnff,sris bgvsHvnffsqpq b,sfnvsHvnff’hsrpo
nopjo jomsbcb?sQoesorpsgrrisHvnffsmrbhsvrsfbesngrosqsuqvviqhhsvyqvsjh
qddsvrrshrtv;sprndesjvspbibshvnttbespjvysfinhyprre!sJsmijosqvsvybb,
vyrnsmijoojomspyqdb!sDrr scb,shno,surro,sqoeshvqih!sJsaqddscbsqhhqhhjoh
rtsqhsmrresqstbddrpsqhsbzbishgrnvbesngsyjhsmyrhv.sTrisqddsvyqv,sJsprnde
cbvsijomsmdqhhbhspjvyscb,sprndescbsfnvsyqoesvybsang!sRy,sry!sry,sry!
vyrnsmijoojomspyqdb,sfnvsvybib’ddsfbsgdbovcsrtsmndgjomshrro!sPycstdcscb
orv,sRsQyqf!sTrisub,srttshyrbhsqoeskqa bvsvrsjv;sdbvsHvnffsejbsjosyjh
eiqpbih!sQsurhvsurndecsqoesrzbishqdvbesebqvy,svyrnmy;—aybiijbh!
aybiijbh!saybiijbh!sRy,sTdqh ,strisrobsibesaybiicsbibspbsejb!”

“Aybiijbh?sJsrodcspjhysvyqvspbspbibspybibsvybcsmirp.sRy,sHvnff,sJsyrgb
ucsgrrisurvybi’hseiqposucsgqiv-gqcsbibsvyjh;sjtsorv,stbpsarggbihspjdd
orpsarubsvrsybi,strisvybszrcqmbsjhsng.”

Tirusvybshyjg’hsfrph,sobqidcsqddsvybshbqubosorpsynomsjoqavjzb;syquubih,
fjvhsrtsgdqo ,sdqoabh,sqoesyqigrroh,subayqojaqddcsibvqjobesjosvybji
yqoeh,sknhvsqhsvybcsyqeseqivbestirusvybjiszqijrnhsbugdrcubovh;sqdd
vybjisboayqovbesbcbhsjovbovsngrosvybspyqdb,spyjaystirushjebsvrshjeb
hviqombdcszjfiqvjomsyjhsgibebhvjoqvjomsybqe,shbovsqsfirqesfqoesrt
rzbihgibqejomshbujajiandqistrqusfbtribsyjusqhsybsinhybe.sIbvijfnvjro,
hpjtvszbombqoab,sbvbioqdsuqdjabspbibsjosyjhspyrdbsqhgbav,sqoeshgjvbsrt
qddsvyqvsurivqdsuqosarndeser,svybshrdjespyjvbsfnvvibhhsrtsyjhstribybqe
hurvbsvybshyjg’hshvqifrqiesfrp,svjddsubosqoesvjufbihsibbdbe.sHrubstbdd
tdqvsngrosvybjistqabh.sDj bsejhdrembesvina h,svybsybqehsrtsvyb
yqigrrobbihsqdrtvshyrr srosvybjisfndd-dj bsoba h.sVyirnmysvybsfibqay,
vybcsybqiesvybspqvbihsgrni,sqhsurnovqjosvriibovhserposqstdnub.

“Vybshyjg!sVybsybqihb!—vybshbaroesybqihb!”saijbesQyqfstirusvybsfrqv;
“jvhsprresarndesrodcsfbsQubijaqo!”

Ejzjomsfbobqvysvybshbvvdjomshyjg,svybspyqdbsiqoslnjzbijomsqdromsjvh
 bbd;sfnvsvniojomsnoebispqvbi,shpjtvdcshyrvsvrsvybshnitqabsqmqjo,stqi
rttsvybsrvybisfrp,sfnvspjvyjosqstbpscqiehsrtsQyqf’hsfrqv,spybib,strisq
vjub,sybsdqcslnjbhabov.

“Jsvniosucsfrecstirusvybshno.sPyqvsyr,sVqhyvbmr!sdbvsubsybqisvyc
yquubi.sRy!scbsvyibbsnohniiboebibeshgjibhsrtsujob;svyrnsnoaiqa bes bbd;
qoesrodcsmre-fnddjbesyndd;svyrnstjiuseba ,sqoesyqnmyvcsybdu,sqoe
Grdb-grjovbesgirp,—ebqvy-mdrijrnhshyjg!sunhvscbsvybosgbijhy,sqoe
pjvyrnvsub?sQusJsanvsrttstirusvybsdqhvstroesgijebsrtsubqobhv
hyjgpiba besaqgvqjoh?sRy,sdrobdcsebqvysrosdrobdcsdjtb!sRy,sorpsJstbbd
ucsvrgurhvsmibqvobhhsdjbhsjosucsvrgurhvsmijbt.sYr,syr!stirusqddscrni
tnivybhvsfrnoeh,sgrniscbsorpsjo,scbsfrdesfjddrphsrtsucspyrdbstribmrob
djtb,sqoesvrgsvyjhsrobsgjdbesarufbisrtsucsebqvy!sVrpqiehsvybbsJsirdd,
vyrnsqdd-ebhvircjomsfnvsnoarolnbijomspyqdb;svrsvybsdqhvsJsmiqggdbspjvy
vybb;stirusybdd’hsybqivsJshvqfsqvsvybb;strisyqvb’hshq bsJshgjvsucsdqhv
fibqvysqvsvybb.sHjo sqddsarttjohsqoesqddsybqihbhsvrsrobsaruurosgrrd!
qoeshjoabsobjvybisaqosfbsujob,sdbvsubsvybosvrpsvrsgjbabh,spyjdbshvjdd
ayqhjomsvybb,svyrnmysvjbesvrsvybb,svyrnsequobespyqdb!s_Vynh_,sJsmjzbsng
vybshgbqi!”

Vybsyqigrrospqhseqivbe;svybshvija bospyqdbstdbpstripqie;spjvysjmojvjom
zbdrajvcsvybsdjobsiqosvyirnmysvybsmirrzbh;—iqostrnd.sQyqfshvrrgbesvr
adbqisjv;sybsejesadbqisjv;sfnvsvybstdcjomsvniosaqnmyvsyjusirnoesvyb
oba ,sqoeszrjabdbhhdcsqhsVni jhysunvbhsfrphvijomsvybjiszjavju,sybspqh
hyrvsrnvsrtsvybsfrqv,sbibsvybsaibps obpsybspqhsmrob.sObxvsjohvqov,svyb
ybqzcsbcb-hgdjabsjosvybsirgb’hstjoqdsboestdbpsrnvsrtsvybshvqi -bugvc
vnf,s ora beserposqosrqihuqo,sqoeshujvjomsvybshbq,sejhqggbqibesjosjvh
ebgvyh.

Trisqosjohvqov,svybsviqoabesfrqv’hsaibpshvrreshvjdd;svybosvniobe.s“Vyb
hyjg?sMibqvsMre,spybibsjhsvybshyjg?”sHrrosvybcsvyirnmyseju,sfbpjdebijom
ubejnuhshqpsybishjebdromstqejomsgyqovru,sqhsjosvybsmqhbrnhsTqvq
Urimqoq;srodcsvybsnggbiurhvsuqhvhsrnvsrtspqvbi;spyjdbstjxbesfc
jotqvnqvjro,sristjebdjvc,sristqvb,svrsvybjisroabsdrtvcsgbiaybh,svyb
gqmqosyqigrrobbihshvjddsuqjovqjobesvybjishjo jomsdrr rnvhsrosvybshbq.
Qoesorp,saroabovijasajiadbhshbjwbesvybsdrobsfrqvsjvhbdt,sqoesqddsjvh
aibp,sqoesbqaystdrqvjomsrqi,sqoesbzbicsdqoab-grdb,sqoeshgjoojom,
qojuqvbsqoesjoqojuqvb,sqddsirnoesqoesirnoesjosrobszrivbx,saqiijbesvyb
huqddbhvsayjgsrtsvybsGblnresrnvsrtshjmyv.

Fnvsqhsvybsdqhvspybdujomhsjovbiujxjomdcsgrnibesvybuhbdzbhsrzbisvyb
hno bosybqesrtsvybsJoejqosqvsvybsuqjouqhv,sdbqzjomsqstbpsjoaybhsrtsvyb
bibavshgqiscbvszjhjfdb,svrmbvybispjvysdromshvibqujomscqiehsrtsvybstdqm,
pyjaysaqdudcsnoendqvbe,spjvysjirojaqdsarjoajejomh,srzbisvybsebhvircjom
fjddrphsvybcsqdurhvsvrnaybe;—qvsvyqvsjohvqov,sqsibesqiusqoesqsyquubi
yrzbibesfqa pqiedcsngdjtvbesjosvybsrgbosqji,sjosvybsqavsrtsoqjdjomsvyb
tdqmstqhvbisqoescbvstqhvbisvrsvybshnfhjejomshgqi.sQsh c-yqp svyqv
vqnovjomdcsyqestrddrpbesvybsuqjo-vina serpopqiehstirusjvhsoqvniqdsyrub
quromsvybshvqih,sgba jomsqvsvybstdqm,sqoesjoaruurejomsVqhyvbmrsvybib;
vyjhsfjiesorpsayqoabesvrsjovbiabgvsjvhsfirqestdnvvbijomspjomsfbvpbbo
vybsyquubisqoesvybsprre;sqoeshjundvqobrnhdcstbbdjomsvyqvsbvybijqd
vyijdd,svybshnfubimbeshqzqmbsfbobqvy,sjosyjhsebqvy-mqhg,s bgvsyjh
yquubistirwbosvybib;sqoeshrsvybsfjiesrtsybqzbo,spjvysqiayqombdja
hyijb h,sqoesyjhsjugbijqdsfbq svyinhvsngpqieh,sqoesyjhspyrdbsaqgvjzb
triustrdebesjosvybstdqmsrtsQyqf,spbovserpospjvysyjhshyjg,spyjay,sdj b
Hqvqo,sprndesorvshjo svrsybddsvjddshybsyqeseiqmmbesqsdjzjomsgqivsrt
ybqzbosqdromspjvysybi,sqoesybdubvbesybihbdtspjvysjv.

Orpshuqddstrpdhstdbpshaibqujomsrzbisvybscbvscqpojomsmndt;sqshnddbo
pyjvbshnitsfbqvsqmqjohvsjvhshvbbgshjebh;svybosqddsarddqghbe,sqoesvyb
mibqvshyirnesrtsvybshbqsirddbesrosqhsjvsirddbestjzbsvyrnhqoescbqihsqmr.


Bgjdrmnb

“QOEsJsRODCsQUsBHAQGBEsQDROBsVRsVBDDsVYBB”sKrf.

Vybseiquq’hserob.sPycsvybosybibserbhsqocsrobshvbgstrivy?—Fbaqnhbsrob
ejeshnizjzbsvybspiba .

Jvshrsayqoabe,svyqvsqtvbisvybsGqihbb’hsejhqggbqiqoab,sJspqhsybspyrusvyb
Tqvbhsrieqjobesvrsvq bsvybsgdqabsrtsQyqf’hsfrphuqo,spybosvyqvsfrphuqo
qhhnubesvybszqaqovsgrhv;svybshqub,spyr,spybosrosvybsdqhvseqcsvybsvyibb
ubospbibsvrhhbestirusrnvsrtsvybsira jomsfrqv,spqhseirggbesqhvbio.sHr,
tdrqvjomsrosvybsuqimjosrtsvybsbohnjomshabob,sqoesjostnddshjmyvsrtsjv,
pybosvybsyqdthgbovshnavjrosrtsvybshno shyjgsibqaybesub,sJspqhsvybo,sfnv
hdrpdc,seiqposvrpqiehsvybsadrhjomszrivbx.sPybosJsibqaybesjv,sjvsyqe
hnfhjebesvrsqsaibqucsgrrd.sIrnoesqoesirnoe,svybo,sqoesbzbisaroviqavjom
vrpqiehsvybsfnvvro-dj bsfdqa sfnffdbsqvsvybsqxjhsrtsvyqvshdrpdc
pybbdjomsajiadb,sdj bsqorvybisJxjrosJsejesibzrdzb.sVjdd,smqjojomsvyqv
zjvqdsabovib,svybsfdqa sfnffdbsngpqiesfnihv;sqoesorp,sdjfbiqvbesfc
ibqhrosrtsjvhsanoojomshgijom,sqoe,srpjomsvrsjvhsmibqvsfnrcqoac,sijhjom
pjvysmibqvstriab,svybsarttjosdjtb-fnrcshyrvsdbomvypjhbstirusvybshbq,
tbddsrzbi,sqoestdrqvbesfcsucshjeb.sFnrcbesngsfcsvyqvsarttjo,strisqdurhv
robspyrdbseqcsqoesojmyv,sJstdrqvbesrosqshrtvsqoesejimbdj bsuqjo.sVyb
noyqiujomshyqi h,svybcsmdjebesfcsqhsjtspjvysgqedra hsrosvybjisurnvyh;
vybshqzqmbshbq-yqp hshqjdbespjvyshybqvybesfbq h.sRosvybshbaroeseqc,sq
hqjdseibpsobqi,sobqibi,sqoesgja besubsngsqvsdqhv.sJvspqhsvyb
ebzjrnh-ainjhjomsIqaybd,svyqvsjosybisibviqajomshbqiaysqtvbisybisujhhjom
ayjdeibo,srodcstrnoesqorvybisrigyqo.





BoesrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim’hsUrfcsEja ;srisVybsPyqdb,sfcsYbiuqosUbdzjddb

***sBOEsRTsVYJHsGIRKBAVsMNVBOFBIMsBFRR sURFCsEJA ;sRIsVYBsPYQDBs***

*****sVyjhstjdbshyrndesfbsoqubes2701-0.vxvsris2701-0.wjgs*****sVyjhsqoe
qddsqhhrajqvbestjdbhsrtszqijrnhstriuqvhspjddsfbstrnoesjo:
yvvg://ppp.mnvbofbim.rim/2/7/0/2701/

GirenabesfcsEqojbdsDqwqinh,sKrobhbc,sqoesEqzjesPjembi


Ngeqvbesbejvjrohspjddsibgdqabsvybsgibzjrnhsrob--vybsrdesbejvjrohspjdd
fbsiboqube.

Aibqvjomsvybspri hstirusgnfdjaseruqjosgijovsbejvjrohsubqohsvyqvsorsrob
rpohsqsNojvbesHvqvbhsargcijmyvsjosvybhbspri h,shrsvybsTrnoeqvjros(qoe
crn!)saqosargcsqoesejhvijfnvbsjvsjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbhspjvyrnv
gbiujhhjrosqoespjvyrnvsgqcjomsargcijmyvsircqdvjbh.ssHgbajqdsindbh,shbv
trivysjosvybsMbobiqdsVbiuhsrtsNhbsgqivsrtsvyjhsdjabohb,sqggdcsvr
argcjomsqoesejhvijfnvjomsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri hsvr
girvbavsvybsGIRKBAVsMNVBOFBIM-vusaroabgvsqoesviqebuqi .ssGirkbav
Mnvbofbimsjhsqsibmjhvbibesviqebuqi ,sqoesuqcsorvsfbsnhbesjtscrnsayqimb
trisvybsbFrr h,snodbhhscrnsibabjzbshgbajtjasgbiujhhjro.ssJtscrnsersorv
ayqimbsqocvyjomstrisargjbhsrtsvyjhsbFrr ,sarugdcjomspjvysvybsindbhsjh
zbicsbqhc.ssCrnsuqcsnhbsvyjhsbFrr strisobqidcsqocsgnigrhbshnaysqh
aibqvjrosrtsebijzqvjzbspri h,sibgrivh,sgbitriuqoabhsqoesibhbqiay.ssVybc
uqcsfbsurejtjbesqoesgijovbesqoesmjzbosqpqc--crnsuqcsersgiqavjaqddc
QOCVYJOMspjvysgnfdjaseruqjosbFrr h.ssIbejhvijfnvjrosjhshnfkbavsvrsvyb
viqebuqi sdjabohb,sbhgbajqddcsaruubiajqdsibejhvijfnvjro.



***sHVQIV:sTNDDsDJABOHBs***

VYBsTNDDsGIRKBAVsMNVBOFBIMsDJABOHBsGDBQHBsIBQEsVYJHsFBTRIBsCRN
EJHVIJFNVBsRIsNHBsVYJHsPRI 

VrsgirvbavsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusujhhjrosrtsgirurvjomsvybstibb
ejhvijfnvjrosrtsbdbavirojaspri h,sfcsnhjomsrisejhvijfnvjomsvyjhspri 
(risqocsrvybispri sqhhrajqvbesjosqocspqcspjvysvybsgyiqhbs“Girkbav
Mnvbofbim”),scrnsqmibbsvrsarugdcspjvysqddsvybsvbiuhsrtsvybsTnddsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusDjabohbs(qzqjdqfdbspjvysvyjhstjdbsrisrodjobsqv
yvvg://mnvbofbim.rim/djabohb).


Hbavjros1.ssMbobiqdsVbiuhsrtsNhbsqoesIbejhvijfnvjomsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h

1.Q.ssFcsibqejomsrisnhjomsqocsgqivsrtsvyjhsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu
bdbavirojaspri ,scrnsjoejaqvbsvyqvscrnsyqzbsibqe,snoebihvqoe,sqmibbsvr
qoesqaabgvsqddsvybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsdjabohbsqoesjovbddbavnqdsgirgbivc
(viqebuqi /argcijmyv)sqmibbubov.ssJtscrnsersorvsqmibbsvrsqfjebsfcsqdd
vybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubov,scrnsunhvsabqhbsnhjomsqoesibvniosrisebhvirc
qddsargjbhsrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri hsjoscrnisgrhhbhhjro.
JtscrnsgqjesqstbbstrisrfvqjojomsqsargcsrtsrisqaabhhsvrsqsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri sqoescrnsersorvsqmibbsvrsfbsfrnoesfcsvyb
vbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubov,scrnsuqcsrfvqjosqsibtnoestirusvybsgbihrosri
bovjvcsvrspyruscrnsgqjesvybstbbsqhshbvstrivysjosgqiqmiqgys1.B.8.

1.F.ss“GirkbavsMnvbofbim”sjhsqsibmjhvbibesviqebuqi .ssJvsuqcsrodcsfb
nhbesrosrisqhhrajqvbesjosqocspqcspjvysqosbdbavirojaspri sfcsgbrgdbspyr
qmibbsvrsfbsfrnoesfcsvybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubov.ssVybibsqibsqstbp
vyjomhsvyqvscrnsaqoserspjvysurhvsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h
bzbospjvyrnvsarugdcjomspjvysvybstnddsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubov.ssHbb
gqiqmiqgys1.Asfbdrp.ssVybibsqibsqsdrvsrtsvyjomhscrnsaqoserspjvysGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri hsjtscrnstrddrpsvybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubov
qoesybdgsgibhbizbstibbstnvnibsqaabhhsvrsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbaviroja
pri h.ssHbbsgqiqmiqgys1.Bsfbdrp.

1.A.ssVybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjros(“vyb
Trnoeqvjro”srisGMDQT),srpohsqsarugjdqvjrosargcijmyvsjosvybsarddbavjro
rtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h.ssObqidcsqddsvybsjoejzjenqd
pri hsjosvybsarddbavjrosqibsjosvybsgnfdjaseruqjosjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbh.s
Jtsqosjoejzjenqdspri sjhsjosvybsgnfdjaseruqjosjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbhsqoe
crnsqibsdraqvbesjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbh,spbsersorvsadqjusqsijmyvsvr
gibzbovscrnstirusargcjom,sejhvijfnvjom,sgbitriujom,sejhgdqcjomsri
aibqvjomsebijzqvjzbspri hsfqhbesrosvybspri sqhsdromsqhsqddsibtbiboabh
vrsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsqibsiburzbe.ssRtsarnihb,spbsyrgbsvyqvscrnspjdd
hnggrivsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusujhhjrosrtsgirurvjomstibbsqaabhhsvr
bdbavirojaspri hsfcstibbdcshyqijomsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri hsjo
arugdjqoabspjvysvybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubovstris bbgjomsvybsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusoqubsqhhrajqvbespjvysvybspri .ssCrnsaqosbqhjdcsarugdcspjvy
vybsvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubovsfcs bbgjomsvyjhspri sjosvybshqubstriuqv
pjvysjvhsqvvqaybestnddsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusDjabohbspyboscrnshyqibsjv
pjvyrnvsayqimbspjvysrvybih.

1.E.ssVybsargcijmyvsdqphsrtsvybsgdqabspybibscrnsqibsdraqvbesqdhrsmrzbio
pyqvscrnsaqoserspjvysvyjhspri .ssArgcijmyvsdqphsjosurhvsarnovijbhsqib
josqsarohvqovshvqvbsrtsayqomb.ssJtscrnsqibsrnvhjebsvybsNojvbesHvqvbh,
ayba svybsdqphsrtscrnisarnovicsjosqeejvjrosvrsvybsvbiuhsrtsvyjh
qmibbubovsfbtribserpodrqejom,sargcjom,sejhgdqcjom,sgbitriujom,
ejhvijfnvjomsrisaibqvjomsebijzqvjzbspri hsfqhbesrosvyjhspri srisqoc
rvybisGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri .ssVybsTrnoeqvjrosuq bhsor
ibgibhbovqvjrohsaroabiojomsvybsargcijmyvshvqvnhsrtsqocspri sjosqoc
arnovicsrnvhjebsvybsNojvbesHvqvbh.

1.B.ssNodbhhscrnsyqzbsiburzbesqddsibtbiboabhsvrsGirkbavsMnvbofbim:

1.B.1.ssVybstrddrpjomshbovboab,spjvysqavjzbsdjo hsvr,srisrvybi
juubejqvbsqaabhhsvr,svybstnddsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusDjabohbsunhvsqggbqi
girujobovdcspybobzbisqocsargcsrtsqsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri s(qocspri 
rospyjaysvybsgyiqhbs“GirkbavsMnvbofbim”sqggbqih,srispjvyspyjaysvyb
gyiqhbs“GirkbavsMnvbofbim”sjhsqhhrajqvbe)sjhsqaabhhbe,sejhgdqcbe,
gbitriube,szjbpbe,sargjbesrisejhvijfnvbe:

VyjhsbFrr sjhstrisvybsnhbsrtsqocrobsqocpybibsqvsorsarhvsqoespjvysqdurhv
orsibhvijavjrohspyqvhrbzbi.ssCrnsuqcsargcsjv,smjzbsjvsqpqcsrisib-nhbsjv
noebisvybsvbiuhsrtsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjabohbsjoadnebespjvysvyjh
bFrr srisrodjobsqvsppp.mnvbofbim.rim

1.B.2.ssJtsqosjoejzjenqdsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri sjh
ebijzbestirusvybsgnfdjaseruqjos(erbhsorvsarovqjosqsorvjabsjoejaqvjom
vyqvsjvsjhsgrhvbespjvysgbiujhhjrosrtsvybsargcijmyvsyrdebi),svybspri 
aqosfbsargjbesqoesejhvijfnvbesvrsqocrobsjosvybsNojvbesHvqvbhspjvyrnv
gqcjomsqocstbbhsrisayqimbh.ssJtscrnsqibsibejhvijfnvjomsrisgirzjejom
qaabhhsvrsqspri spjvysvybsgyiqhbs“GirkbavsMnvbofbim”sqhhrajqvbespjvysri
qggbqijomsrosvybspri ,scrnsunhvsarugdcsbjvybispjvysvybsiblnjibubovhsrt
gqiqmiqgyhs1.B.1svyirnmys1.B.7srisrfvqjosgbiujhhjrostrisvybsnhbsrtsvyb
pri sqoesvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusviqebuqi sqhshbvstrivysjosgqiqmiqgyh
1.B.8sris1.B.9.

1.B.3.ssJtsqosjoejzjenqdsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri sjhsgrhvbe
pjvysvybsgbiujhhjrosrtsvybsargcijmyvsyrdebi,scrnisnhbsqoesejhvijfnvjro
unhvsarugdcspjvysfrvysgqiqmiqgyhs1.B.1svyirnmys1.B.7sqoesqocsqeejvjroqd
vbiuhsjugrhbesfcsvybsargcijmyvsyrdebi.ssQeejvjroqdsvbiuhspjddsfbsdjo be
vrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusDjabohbstrisqddspri hsgrhvbespjvysvyb
gbiujhhjrosrtsvybsargcijmyvsyrdebistrnoesqvsvybsfbmjoojomsrtsvyjhspri .

1.B.4.ssErsorvsnodjo srisebvqaysrisiburzbsvybstnddsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu
Djabohbsvbiuhstirusvyjhspri ,srisqocstjdbhsarovqjojomsqsgqivsrtsvyjh
pri srisqocsrvybispri sqhhrajqvbespjvysGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu.

1.B.5.ssErsorvsargc,sejhgdqc,sgbitriu,sejhvijfnvbsrisibejhvijfnvbsvyjh
bdbavirojaspri ,srisqocsgqivsrtsvyjhsbdbavirojaspri ,spjvyrnv
girujobovdcsejhgdqcjomsvybshbovboabshbvstrivysjosgqiqmiqgys1.B.1spjvy
qavjzbsdjo hsrisjuubejqvbsqaabhhsvrsvybstnddsvbiuhsrtsvybsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusDjabohb.

1.B.6.ssCrnsuqcsarozbivsvrsqoesejhvijfnvbsvyjhspri sjosqocsfjoqic,
arugibhhbe,suqi besng,sorogirgijbvqicsrisgirgijbvqicstriu,sjoadnejom
qocspriesgirabhhjomsrisycgbivbxvstriu.ssYrpbzbi,sjtscrnsgirzjebsqaabhh
vrsrisejhvijfnvbsargjbhsrtsqsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri sjosqstriuqv
rvybisvyqos“GdqjosZqojddqsQHAJJ”srisrvybistriuqvsnhbesjosvybsrttjajqd
zbihjrosgrhvbesrosvybsrttjajqdsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspbfshjvb
(ppp.mnvbofbim.rim),scrnsunhv,sqvsorsqeejvjroqdsarhv,stbbsrisbxgbohbsvr
vybsnhbi,sgirzjebsqsargc,sqsubqohsrtsbxgrivjomsqsargc,srisqsubqohsrt
rfvqjojomsqsargcsngrosiblnbhv,srtsvybspri sjosjvhsrijmjoqds“Gdqjo
ZqojddqsQHAJJ”srisrvybistriu.ssQocsqdvbioqvbstriuqvsunhvsjoadnebsvyb
tnddsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusDjabohbsqhshgbajtjbesjosgqiqmiqgys1.B.1.

1.B.7.ssErsorvsayqimbsqstbbstrisqaabhhsvr,szjbpjom,sejhgdqcjom,
gbitriujom,sargcjomsrisejhvijfnvjomsqocsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri h
nodbhhscrnsarugdcspjvysgqiqmiqgys1.B.8sris1.B.9.

1.B.8.ssCrnsuqcsayqimbsqsibqhroqfdbstbbstrisargjbhsrtsrisgirzjejom
qaabhhsvrsrisejhvijfnvjomsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h
girzjebesvyqv

-sCrnsgqcsqsircqdvcstbbsrts20%srtsvybsmirhhsgirtjvhscrnsebijzbstirusvyb
nhbsrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri hsaqdandqvbesnhjomsvybsubvyrescrn
qdibqecsnhbsvrsaqdandqvbscrnisqggdjaqfdbsvqxbh.ssVybstbbsjhsrpbesvrsvyb
rpobisrtsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusviqebuqi ,sfnvsybsyqhsqmibbesvr
eroqvbsircqdvjbhsnoebisvyjhsgqiqmiqgysvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqic
QiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro.ssIrcqdvcsgqcubovhsunhvsfbsgqjespjvyjos60seqch
trddrpjomsbqayseqvbsrospyjayscrnsgibgqibs(risqibsdbmqddcsiblnjibesvr
gibgqib)scrnisgbijrejasvqxsibvnioh.ssIrcqdvcsgqcubovhshyrndesfbsadbqidc
uqi besqhshnaysqoeshbovsvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzb
TrnoeqvjrosqvsvybsqeeibhhshgbajtjbesjosHbavjros4,s“Jotriuqvjrosqfrnv
eroqvjrohsvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro.”

-sCrnsgirzjebsqstnddsibtnoesrtsqocsurobcsgqjesfcsqsnhbispyrsorvjtjbh
crnsjospijvjoms(risfcsb-uqjd)spjvyjos30seqchsrtsibabjgvsvyqvsh/ybserbh
orvsqmibbsvrsvybsvbiuhsrtsvybstnddsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusDjabohb.ssCrn
unhvsiblnjibshnaysqsnhbisvrsibvniosrisebhvircsqddsargjbhsrtsvybspri h
grhhbhhbesjosqsgychjaqdsubejnusqoesejharovjonbsqddsnhbsrtsqoesqdd
qaabhhsvrsrvybisargjbhsrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri h.

-sCrnsgirzjeb,sjosqaarieqoabspjvysgqiqmiqgys1.T.3,sqstnddsibtnoesrtsqoc
urobcsgqjestrisqspri srisqsibgdqabubovsargc,sjtsqsebtbavsjosvyb
bdbavirojaspri sjhsejharzbibesqoesibgrivbesvrscrnspjvyjos90seqchsrt
ibabjgvsrtsvybspri .

-sCrnsarugdcspjvysqddsrvybisvbiuhsrtsvyjhsqmibbubovstristibb
ejhvijfnvjrosrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri h.

1.B.9.ssJtscrnspjhysvrsayqimbsqstbbsrisejhvijfnvbsqsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri srismirngsrtspri hsrosejttbibovsvbiuhsvyqo
qibshbvstrivysjosvyjhsqmibbubov,scrnsunhvsrfvqjosgbiujhhjrosjospijvjom
tirusfrvysvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjrosqoesUjayqbd
Yqiv,svybsrpobisrtsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusviqebuqi .ssArovqavsvyb
TrnoeqvjrosqhshbvstrivysjosHbavjros3sfbdrp.

1.T.

1.T.1.ssGirkbavsMnvbofbimszrdnovbbihsqoesbugdrcbbhsbxgboesarohjebiqfdb
bttrivsvrsjebovjtc,sersargcijmyvsibhbqiaysro,sviqohaijfbsqoesgirrtibqe
gnfdjaseruqjospri hsjosaibqvjomsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusarddbavjro.
Ebhgjvbsvybhbsbttrivh,sGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h,sqoesvyb
ubejnusrospyjaysvybcsuqcsfbshvribe,suqcsarovqjos“Ebtbavh,”shnaysqh,sfnv
orvsdjujvbesvr,sjoarugdbvb,sjoqaaniqvbsrisariingvseqvq,sviqohaijgvjro
biirih,sqsargcijmyvsrisrvybisjovbddbavnqdsgirgbivcsjotijombubov,sq
ebtbavjzbsrisequqmbesejh srisrvybisubejnu,sqsarugnvbiszjinh,sri
arugnvbisarebhsvyqvsequqmbsrisaqoorvsfbsibqesfcscrnisblnjgubov.

1.T.2.ssDJUJVBEsPQIIQOVC,sEJHADQJUBIsRTsEQUQMBHs-sBxabgvstrisvybs“Ijmyv
rtsIbgdqabubovsrisIbtnoe”sebhaijfbesjosgqiqmiqgys1.T.3,svybsGirkbav
MnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro,svybsrpobisrtsvybsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusviqebuqi ,sqoesqocsrvybisgqivcsejhvijfnvjomsqsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri snoebisvyjhsqmibbubov,sejhadqjusqdd
djqfjdjvcsvrscrnstrisequqmbh,sarhvhsqoesbxgbohbh,sjoadnejomsdbmqdstbbh.
CRNsQMIBBsVYQVsCRNsYQZBsORsIBUBEJBHsTRIsOBMDJMBOAB,sHVIJAVsDJQFJDJVC,
FIBQAYsRTsPQIIQOVCsRIsFIBQAYsRTsAROVIQAVsBXABGVsVYRHBsGIRZJEBEsJO
GQIQMIQGYsT3.ssCRNsQMIBBsVYQVsVYBsTRNOEQVJRO,sVYBsVIQEBUQI sRPOBI,sQOE
QOCsEJHVIJFNVRIsNOEBIsVYJHsQMIBBUBOVsPJDDsORVsFBsDJQFDBsVRsCRNsTRI
QAVNQD,sEJIBAV,sJOEJIBAV,sAROHBLNBOVJQD,sGNOJVJZBsRIsJOAJEBOVQDsEQUQMBH
BZBOsJTsCRNsMJZBsORVJABsRTsVYBsGRHHJFJDJVCsRTsHNAYsEQUQMB.

1.T.3.ssDJUJVBEsIJMYVsRTsIBGDQABUBOVsRIsIBTNOEs-sJtscrnsejharzbisq
ebtbavsjosvyjhsbdbavirojaspri spjvyjos90seqchsrtsibabjzjomsjv,scrnsaqo
ibabjzbsqsibtnoesrtsvybsurobcs(jtsqoc)scrnsgqjestrisjvsfcshboejomsq
pijvvbosbxgdqoqvjrosvrsvybsgbihroscrnsibabjzbesvybspri stiru.ssJtscrn
ibabjzbesvybspri srosqsgychjaqdsubejnu,scrnsunhvsibvniosvybsubejnuspjvy
crnispijvvbosbxgdqoqvjro.ssVybsgbihrosrisbovjvcsvyqvsgirzjebescrnspjvy
vybsebtbavjzbspri suqcsbdbavsvrsgirzjebsqsibgdqabubovsargcsjosdjbnsrtsq
ibtnoe.ssJtscrnsibabjzbesvybspri sbdbavirojaqddc,svybsgbihrosrisbovjvc
girzjejomsjvsvrscrnsuqcsayrrhbsvrsmjzbscrnsqshbaroesrggrivnojvcsvr
ibabjzbsvybspri sbdbavirojaqddcsjosdjbnsrtsqsibtnoe.ssJtsvybshbaroe
argcsjhsqdhrsebtbavjzb,scrnsuqcsebuqoesqsibtnoesjospijvjomspjvyrnv
tnivybisrggrivnojvjbhsvrstjxsvybsgirfdbu.

1.T.4.ssBxabgvstrisvybsdjujvbesijmyvsrtsibgdqabubovsrisibtnoeshbvstrivy
josgqiqmiqgys1.T.3,svyjhspri sjhsgirzjebesvrscrns‘QH-JH’sPJVYsORsRVYBI
PQIIQOVJBHsRTsQOCs JOE,sBXGIBHHsRIsJUGDJBE,sJOADNEJOMsFNVsORVsDJUJVBE
VRsPQIIQOVJBHsRTsUBIAYQOVJFJDJVCsRIsTJVOBHHsTRIsQOCsGNIGRHB.

1.T.5.ssHrubshvqvbhsersorvsqddrpsejhadqjubihsrtsabivqjosjugdjbe
pqiiqovjbhsrisvybsbxadnhjrosrisdjujvqvjrosrtsabivqjosvcgbhsrtsequqmbh.
Jtsqocsejhadqjubisrisdjujvqvjroshbvstrivysjosvyjhsqmibbubovszjrdqvbh
vybsdqpsrtsvybshvqvbsqggdjaqfdbsvrsvyjhsqmibbubov,svybsqmibbubovshyqdd
fbsjovbigibvbesvrsuq bsvybsuqxjunusejhadqjubisrisdjujvqvjrosgbiujvvbe
fcsvybsqggdjaqfdbshvqvbsdqp.ssVybsjozqdjejvcsrisnobotriabqfjdjvcsrtsqoc
girzjhjrosrtsvyjhsqmibbubovshyqddsorvszrjesvybsibuqjojomsgirzjhjroh.

1.T.6.ssJOEBUOJVCs-sCrnsqmibbsvrsjoebuojtcsqoesyrdesvybsTrnoeqvjro,svyb
viqebuqi srpobi,sqocsqmbovsrisbugdrcbbsrtsvybsTrnoeqvjro,sqocrob
girzjejomsargjbhsrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri hsjosqaarieqoab
pjvysvyjhsqmibbubov,sqoesqocszrdnovbbihsqhhrajqvbespjvysvybsgirenavjro,
girurvjrosqoesejhvijfnvjrosrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbavirojaspri h,
yqiudbhhstirusqddsdjqfjdjvc,sarhvhsqoesbxgbohbh,sjoadnejomsdbmqdstbbh,
vyqvsqijhbsejibavdcsrisjoejibavdcstirusqocsrtsvybstrddrpjomspyjayscrn
ersrisaqnhbsvrsraani:s(q)sejhvijfnvjrosrtsvyjhsrisqocsGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vuspri ,s(f)sqdvbiqvjro,surejtjaqvjro,srisqeejvjrohsri
ebdbvjrohsvrsqocsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vuspri ,sqoes(a)sqocsEbtbavscrn
aqnhb.


Hbavjross2.ssJotriuqvjrosqfrnvsvybsUjhhjrosrtsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu

GirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusjhshcorocurnhspjvysvybstibbsejhvijfnvjrosrt
bdbavirojaspri hsjostriuqvhsibqeqfdbsfcsvybspjebhvszqijbvcsrtsarugnvbih
joadnejomsrfhrdbvb,srde,sujeedb-qmbesqoesobpsarugnvbih.ssJvsbxjhvh
fbaqnhbsrtsvybsbttrivhsrtsynoeibehsrtszrdnovbbihsqoeseroqvjrohstiru
gbrgdbsjosqddspqd hsrtsdjtb.

Zrdnovbbihsqoestjoqoajqdshnggrivsvrsgirzjebszrdnovbbihspjvysvyb
qhhjhvqoabsvybcsobbe,sqibsaijvjaqdsvrsibqayjomsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu’h
mrqdhsqoesbohnijomsvyqvsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusarddbavjrospjddsibuqjo
tibbdcsqzqjdqfdbstrismbobiqvjrohsvrsarub.ssJos2001,svybsGirkbav
MnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjrospqhsaibqvbesvrsgirzjebsqshbanib
qoesgbiuqobovstnvnibstrisGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusqoestnvnibsmbobiqvjroh.
VrsdbqiosuribsqfrnvsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro
qoesyrpscrnisbttrivhsqoeseroqvjrohsaqosybdg,shbbsHbavjrohs3sqoes4sqoe
vybsTrnoeqvjrospbfsgqmbsqvsyvvg://ppp.gmdqt.rim.


Hbavjros3.ssJotriuqvjrosqfrnvsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzb
Trnoeqvjro

VybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjrosjhsqsorosgirtjv
501(a)(3)sbenaqvjroqdsarigriqvjrosrimqojwbesnoebisvybsdqphsrtsvybshvqvb
rtsUjhhjhhjggjsqoesmiqovbesvqxsbxbugvshvqvnhsfcsvybsJovbioqdsIbzbonb
Hbizjab.ssVybsTrnoeqvjro’hsBJOsristbebiqdsvqxsjebovjtjaqvjrosonufbisjh
64-6221541.ssJvhs501(a)(3)sdbvvbisjhsgrhvbesqv
yvvg://gmdqt.rim/tnoeiqjhjom.ssArovijfnvjrohsvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim
DjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjrosqibsvqxsebenavjfdbsvrsvybstnddsbxvbov
gbiujvvbesfcsN.H.stbebiqdsdqphsqoescrnishvqvb’hsdqph.

VybsTrnoeqvjro’hsgijoajgqdsrttjabsjhsdraqvbesqvs4557sUbdqosEi.sH.
Tqjifqo h,sQ ,s99712.,sfnvsjvhszrdnovbbihsqoesbugdrcbbhsqibshaqvvbibe
vyirnmyrnvsonubirnhsdraqvjroh.ssJvhsfnhjobhhsrttjabsjhsdraqvbesqvs809
Orivys1500sPbhv,sHqdvsDq bsAjvc,sNVs84116,s(801)s596-1887,sbuqjd
fnhjobhh@gmdqt.rim.ssBuqjdsarovqavsdjo hsqoesngsvrseqvbsarovqav
jotriuqvjrosaqosfbstrnoesqvsvybsTrnoeqvjro’hspbfshjvbsqoesrttjajqdsgqmb
qvsyvvg://gmdqt.rim

Trisqeejvjroqdsarovqavsjotriuqvjro:sEi.sMibmricsF.sObpfcsAyjbt
BxbanvjzbsqoesEjibavrismfobpfc@gmdqt.rim


Hbavjros4.ssJotriuqvjrosqfrnvsEroqvjrohsvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim
DjvbiqicsQiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro

GirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusebgboehsngrosqoesaqoorvshnizjzbspjvyrnvspjeb
hgibqesgnfdjashnggrivsqoeseroqvjrohsvrsaqiicsrnvsjvhsujhhjrosrt
joaibqhjomsvybsonufbisrtsgnfdjaseruqjosqoesdjabohbespri hsvyqvsaqosfb
tibbdcsejhvijfnvbesjosuqayjobsibqeqfdbstriusqaabhhjfdbsfcsvybspjebhv
qiiqcsrtsblnjgubovsjoadnejomsrnveqvbesblnjgubov.ssUqocshuqddseroqvjroh
($1svrs$5,000)sqibsgqivjandqidcsjugrivqovsvrsuqjovqjojomsvqxsbxbugv
hvqvnhspjvysvybsJIH.

VybsTrnoeqvjrosjhsaruujvvbesvrsarugdcjomspjvysvybsdqphsibmndqvjom
ayqijvjbhsqoesayqijvqfdbseroqvjrohsjosqdds50shvqvbhsrtsvybsNojvbe
Hvqvbh.ssArugdjqoabsiblnjibubovhsqibsorvsnojtriusqoesjvsvq bhsq
arohjebiqfdbsbttriv,sunaysgqgbipri sqoesuqocstbbhsvrsubbvsqoes bbgsng
pjvysvybhbsiblnjibubovh.ssPbsersorvshrdjajvseroqvjrohsjosdraqvjroh
pybibspbsyqzbsorvsibabjzbespijvvbosarotjiuqvjrosrtsarugdjqoab.ssVrsHBOE
EROQVJROHsrisebvbiujobsvybshvqvnhsrtsarugdjqoabstrisqocsgqivjandqi
hvqvbszjhjvsyvvg://gmdqt.rim

Pyjdbspbsaqoorvsqoesersorvshrdjajvsarovijfnvjrohstirushvqvbhspybibspb
yqzbsorvsubvsvybshrdjajvqvjrosiblnjibubovh,spbs orpsrtsorsgiryjfjvjro
qmqjohvsqaabgvjomsnohrdjajvbeseroqvjrohstiruserorihsjoshnayshvqvbhspyr
qggirqaysnhspjvysrttbihsvrseroqvb.

Jovbioqvjroqdseroqvjrohsqibsmiqvbtnddcsqaabgvbe,sfnvspbsaqoorvsuq bsqoc
hvqvbubovhsaroabiojomsvqxsvibqvubovsrtseroqvjrohsibabjzbestirusrnvhjeb
vybsNojvbesHvqvbh.ssN.H.sdqphsqdrobshpqugsrnishuqddshvqtt.

Gdbqhbsayba svybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsPbfsgqmbhstrisaniibovseroqvjro
ubvyrehsqoesqeeibhhbh.ssEroqvjrohsqibsqaabgvbesjosqsonufbisrtsrvybi
pqchsjoadnejomsayba h,srodjobsgqcubovhsqoesaibejvsaqieseroqvjroh.sVr
eroqvb,sgdbqhbszjhjv:syvvg://gmdqt.rim/eroqvb


Hbavjros5.ssMbobiqdsJotriuqvjrosQfrnvsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbdbaviroja
pri h.

GirtbhhrisUjayqbdsH.sYqivsjhsvybsrijmjoqvrisrtsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu
aroabgvsrtsqsdjfiqicsrtsbdbavirojaspri hsvyqvsarndesfbstibbdcshyqibe
pjvysqocrob.ssTrisvyjivcscbqih,sybsgirenabesqoesejhvijfnvbesGirkbav
Mnvbofbim-vusbFrr hspjvysrodcsqsdrrhbsobvpri srtszrdnovbbishnggriv.


GirkbavsMnvbofbim-vusbFrr hsqibsrtvbosaibqvbestirushbzbiqdsgijovbe
bejvjroh,sqddsrtspyjaysqibsarotjiubesqhsGnfdjasEruqjosjosvybsN.H.
nodbhhsqsargcijmyvsorvjabsjhsjoadnebe.ssVynh,spbsersorvsobabhhqijdc
 bbgsbFrr hsjosarugdjqoabspjvysqocsgqivjandqisgqgbisbejvjro.


UrhvsgbrgdbshvqivsqvsrnisPbfshjvbspyjaysyqhsvybsuqjosGMshbqiay
tqajdjvc:

ssyvvg://ppp.mnvbofbim.rim

VyjhsPbfshjvbsjoadnebhsjotriuqvjrosqfrnvsGirkbavsMnvbofbim-vu,
joadnejomsyrpsvrsuq bseroqvjrohsvrsvybsGirkbavsMnvbofbimsDjvbiqic
QiayjzbsTrnoeqvjro,syrpsvrsybdgsgirenabsrnisobpsbFrr h,sqoesyrpsvr
hnfhaijfbsvrsrnisbuqjdsobphdbvvbisvrsybqisqfrnvsobpsbFrr h.






