
Nwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcSZqqecqmcPjzxgasiy,czdcUfhsycUqdbs

NwgycsZqqecgycmqicnwscjyscqmcfadqascfadowsiscfncaqcbqyncfapcognw
fxhqyncaqcisynigbngqaycowfnyqs.sircDqjchfdcbq dcgn,ckg.scgncfofdcqi
is-jyscgncjapsicnwscnsihycqmcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgbsayscgabxjpsp
ognwcnwgycsZqqecqicqaxgascfncooorkjnsazsikrqik


Ngnxs:cPjzxgasiy

Fjnwqi:cUfhsycUqdbs

IsxsfyscPfns:cYs nshzsi,c2001c[SZqqec#2814]
XfyncJ pfnsp:cUfajfidc20,c2019

Xfakjfks:cSakxgyw

Bwfifbnsicysncsabqpgak:cJNM-8

***cYNFINcQMcNWGYc IQUSBNcKJNSAZSIKcSZQQEcPJZXGASIYc***




 iqpjbspczdcPf.gpcIssp,cEfiqxc gsnivfe,cfapcPf.gpcOgpksi


bq.si


PJZXGASIY


zdcUfhsycUqdbs


Bqansany


cNwscYgynsiy
cFacSabqjansi
cFifzd
cS.sxgas
cFmnsicnwscIfbs
cNoqcKfxxfany
cNwscZqfipgakcWqjys
cFcXgnnxscBxqjp
cBqjansi finy
cBxfd
cFc fgamjxcBfys
cG.dcPfdcgacnwscBqhhgnnsscIqqh
cFcHqnwsi
cKifbs
cNwscPsfp



NWScYGYNSIY

Nwsiscofycaqcwq scmqicwghcnwgycnghs:cgncofycnwscnwgipcyniqesrcAgkwn
fmnsicagkwncGcwfpc fyyspcnwscwqjysc(gncofyc.fbfngqacnghs)cfapcynjpgsp
nwscxgkwnspcyljfiscqmcogapqo:cfapcagkwncfmnsicagkwncGcwfpcmqjapcgn
xgkwnspcgacnwscyfhscofd,cmfganxdcfapcs.saxdrcGmcwscofycpsfp,cGcnwqjkwn,
GcoqjxpcysscnwscismxsbngqacqmcbfapxsycqacnwscpfiesaspczxgapcmqicGceaso
nwfncnoqcbfapxsychjynczscysncfncnwscwsfpcqmcfcbqi ysrcWscwfpcqmnsacyfgp
nqchs:c“Gcfhcaqncxqakcmqicnwgycoqixp,”cfapcGcwfpcnwqjkwncwgycoqipy
gpxsrcAqocGceasocnwsdcosiscnijsrcS.sidcagkwncfycGckfvspcj cfncnws
ogapqocGcyfgpcyqmnxdcnqchdysxmcnwscoqipc fifxdygyrcGncwfpcfxofdy
yqjapspcynifaksxdcgachdcsfiy,cxgescnwscoqipckaqhqacgacnwscSjbxgpcfap
nwscoqipcyghqadcgacnwscBfnsbwgyhrcZjncaqocgncyqjapspcnqchscxgescnws
afhscqmcyqhschfxsmgbsancfapcygamjxczsgakrcGncmgxxspchscognwcmsfi,cfap
dsncGcxqakspcnqczscasfisicnqcgncfapcnqcxqqecj qacgnycpsfpxdcoqier

QxpcBqnnsicofycygnngakcfncnwscmgis,cyhqegak,cowsacGcbfhscpqoaynfgiycnq
yj  sircOwgxschdcfjancofycxfpxgakcqjnchdcyngifzqjncwscyfgp,cfycgm
isnjiagakcnqcyqhscmqihsicishfiecqmcwgy:

“Aq,cGcoqjxpa’ncyfdcwscofycstfbnxdcrrrczjncnwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcljssi
rrrcnwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcjabfaadcfzqjncwghrcG’xxcnsxxcdqjchd
q gagqarrrr”

Wsczskfacnqc jmmcfncwgyc g s,caqcpqjzncfiifakgakcwgycq gagqacgacwgy
hgaprcNgisyqhscqxpcmqqx!cOwsacosceasocwghcmgiyncwscjyspcnqczscifnwsi
gansisyngak,cnfxegakcqmcmfganycfapcoqihy;czjncGcyqqackisocngispcqmcwgh
fapcwgycsapxsyycynqigsycfzqjncnwscpgyngxxsidr

“Gcwf.schdcqoacnwsqidcfzqjncgn,”cwscyfgprc“Gcnwgaecgncofycqascqmcnwqys
rrrc sbjxgficbfysyrrrrcZjncgn’ycwfipcnqcyfdrrrr”

Wsczskfacnqc jmmcfkfgacfncwgyc g scognwqjnckg.gakcjycwgycnwsqidrcHd
jabxscyfochscynfigakcfapcyfgpcnqchs:

“Osxx,cyqcdqjicqxpcmigsapcgyckqas,cdqj’xxczscyqiidcnqcwsfir”

“Owq?”cyfgpcGr

“MfnwsicMxdaar”

“Gycwscpsfp?”

“HicBqnnsicwsiscwfycujyncnqxpcjyrcWscofyc fyygakczdcnwscwqjysr”

GceasocnwfncGcofycjapsicqzysi.fngqacyqcGcbqangajspcsfngakcfycgmcnws
asoycwfpcaqncgansisynspchsrcHdcjabxscst xfgaspcnqcqxpcBqnnsir

“NwscdqjakynsicfapcwscosisckisfncmigsapyrcNwscqxpcbwf cnfjkwncwghcf
kisfncpsfx,chgapcdqj;cfapcnwsdcyfdcwscwfpcfckisfncogywcmqicwghr”

“Kqpcwf.schsibdcqacwgycyqjx,”cyfgpchdcfjanc gqjyxdr

QxpcBqnnsicxqqespcfnchscmqicfcowgxsrcGcmsxncnwfncwgycxgnnxsczsfpdczxfbe
sdsycosiscstfhgagakchsczjncGcoqjxpcaqncyfngymdcwghczdcxqqegakcj cmiqh
hdc xfnsrcWscisnjiaspcnqcwgyc g scfapcmgafxxdcy fncijpsxdcganqcnws
kifnsr

“Gcoqjxpa’ncxgescbwgxpisacqmchgas,”cwscyfgp,c“nqcwf.scnqqchjbwcnqcyfd
nqcfchfacxgescnwfnr”

“Wqocpqcdqjchsfa,cHicBqnnsi?”cfyespchdcfjanr

“OwfncGchsfacgy,”cyfgpcqxpcBqnnsi,c“gn’yczfpcmqicbwgxpisarcHdcgpsfcgy:
xsncfcdqjakcxfpcijacfzqjncfapc xfdcognwcdqjakcxfpycqmcwgycqoacfkscfap
aqnczsrrrrcFhcGcigkwn,cUfbe?”

“Nwfn’ychdc igabg xs,cnqq,”cyfgpchdcjabxsrc“Xsncwghcxsfiacnqczqtcwgy
bqiasircNwfn’ycowfncG’hcfxofdycyfdgakcnqcnwfncIqygbijbgfacnwsis:cnfes
stsibgysrcOwd,cowsacGcofycfcag  sics.sidchqiagakcqmchdcxgmscGcwfpcf
bqxpczfnw,cogansicfapcyjhhsircFapcnwfn’ycowfncynfapycnqchscaqor
Spjbfngqacgycfxxc.sidcmgascfapcxfiksrrrrcHicBqnnsichgkwncnfescfc gbecqm
nwfncxskchjnnqa,”cwscfppspcnqchdcfjanr

“Aq,caq,caqncmqichs,”cyfgpcqxpcBqnnsir

Hdcfjancziqjkwncnwscpgywcmiqhcnwscyfmscfapc jncgncqacnwscnfzxsr

“Zjncowdcpqcdqjcnwgaecgn’ycaqnckqqpcmqicbwgxpisa,cHicBqnnsi?”cyws
fyespr

“Gn’yczfpcmqicbwgxpisa,”cyfgpcqxpcBqnnsi,c“zsbfjyscnwsgichgapycfiscyq
gh isyygqafzxsrcOwsacbwgxpisacysscnwgakycxgescnwfn,cdqjceaqo,cgncwfycfa
smmsbnrrrr”

GcbifhhspchdchqjnwcognwcyngifzqjncmqicmsficGchgkwnckg.scjnnsifabscnqchd
faksircNgisyqhscqxpcisp-aqyspcghzsbgxs!

GncofycxfnscowsacGcmsxxcfyxss rcNwqjkwcGcofycfakidcognwcqxpcBqnnsicmqi
fxxjpgakcnqchscfycfcbwgxp,cGc jvvxspchdcwsfpcnqcstnifbnchsfagakcmiqh
wgycjamgagywspcysansabsyrcGacnwscpfiecqmchdciqqhcGcghfkgaspcnwfncGcyfo
fkfgacnwscwsf.dckisdcmfbscqmcnwsc fifxdngbrcGcpisocnwsczxfaesnycq.sichd
wsfpcfapcnigspcnqcnwgaecqmcBwigynhfyrcZjncnwsckisdcmfbscyngxxcmqxxqosp
hsrcGnchjihjisp;cfapcGcjapsiynqqpcnwfncgncpsygispcnqcbqamsyycyqhsnwgakr
Gcmsxnchdcyqjxcisbspgakcganqcyqhsc xsfyfancfapc.gbgqjyciskgqa;cfap
nwsiscfkfgacGcmqjapcgncofgngakcmqichsrcGnczskfacnqcbqamsyycnqchscgacf
hjihjigakc.qgbscfapcGcoqapsispcowdcgncyhgxspcbqangajfxxdcfapcowdcnws
xg ycosiscyqchqgyncognwcy gnnxsrcZjncnwsacGcishshzsispcnwfncgncwfpcpgsp
qmc fifxdygycfapcGcmsxncnwfncGcnqqcofycyhgxgakcmsszxdcfycgmcnqcfzyqx.s
nwscyghqagfbcqmcwgycygar

NwscastnchqiagakcfmnsiczisfemfyncGcosancpqoacnqcxqqecfncnwscxgnnxs
wqjyscgacKisfncZignfgacYnissnrcGncofycfacjafyyjhgakcywq ,ciskgynsisp
japsicnwsc.fkjscafhscqmc_Pif sid_rcNwscpif sidcbqaygynspchfgaxdcqm
bwgxpisa’yczqqnssycfapcjhzisxxfy;cfapcqacqipgafidcpfdycfcaqngbscjyspcnq
wfakcgacnwscogapqo,cyfdgak:c_JhzisxxfycIs-bq.sisp_rcAqcaqngbscofy
.gygzxscaqocmqicnwscywjnnsiycosiscj rcFcbif sczqjljsncofycngspcnqcnws
pqqi-eaqbesicognwcigzzqarcNoqc qqicoqhsacfapcfcnsxskifhczqdcosis
isfpgakcnwscbfipc gaaspcqacnwscbif srcGcfxyqcf  iqfbwspcfapcisfp:

cccccUjxdc1yn,c1895
cccccNwscIs.rcUfhsycMxdaac(mqihsixdcqmcYrcBfnwsigas’y
cccccBwjibw,cHsfnwcYnissn),cfkspcygtnd-mg.scdsfiyr
ccccc_IrcGrc r_

Nwscisfpgakcqmcnwscbfipc siyjfpspchscnwfncwscofycpsfpcfapcGcofy
pgynjizspcnqcmgapchdysxmcfncbwsbercWfpcwscaqnczssacpsfpcGcoqjxpcwf.s
kqascganqcnwscxgnnxscpfieciqqhczswgapcnwscywq cnqcmgapcwghcygnngakcga
wgycfih-bwfgiczdcnwscmgis,casfixdcyhqnwsispcgacwgyckisfn-bqfnrc siwf y
hdcfjancoqjxpcwf.sckg.sachscfc fbesncqmcWgkwcNqfyncmqicwghcfapcnwgy
 isysancoqjxpcwf.sciqjyspcwghcmiqhcwgycynj smgspcpqvsrcGncofycfxofdycG
owqcsh ngspcnwsc fbesncganqcwgyczxfbecyajmm-zqtcmqicwgycwfapycnishzxsp
nqqchjbwcnqcfxxqocwghcnqcpqcnwgycognwqjncy gxxgakcwfxmcnwscyajmmcfzqjn
nwscmxqqircS.sacfycwscifgyspcwgycxfikscnishzxgakcwfapcnqcwgycaqys
xgnnxscbxqjpycqmcyhqescpigzzxspcnwiqjkwcwgycmgaksiycq.sicnwscmiqancqm
wgycbqfnrcGnchfdcwf.sczssacnwsyscbqaynfancywqosiycqmcyajmmcowgbwckf.s
wgycfabgsanc igsynxdckfihsanycnwsgickissacmfpspcxqqecmqicnwscisp
wfapesibwgsm,czxfbesasp,cfycgncfxofdycofy,cognwcnwscyajmm-ynfgaycqmcf
osse,cognwcowgbwcwscnigspcnqczijywcfofdcnwscmfxxsackifgay,cofycljgns
gasmmgbfbgqjyr

GcogywspcnqckqcgacfapcxqqecfncwghczjncGcwfpcaqncnwscbqjifkscnqceaqbercG
ofxespcfofdcyxqoxdcfxqakcnwscyjaadcygpscqmcnwscynissn,cisfpgakcfxxcnws
nwsfnigbfxcfp.singyshsanycgacnwscywq -ogapqoycfycGcosanrcGcmqjapcgn
ynifakscnwfncasgnwsicGcaqicnwscpfdcysshspcgacfchqjiagakchqqpcfapcGcmsxn
s.sacfaaqdspcfncpgybq.sigakcgachdysxmcfcysayfngqacqmcmisspqhcfycgmcG
wfpczssacmisspcmiqhcyqhsnwgakczdcwgycpsfnwrcGcoqapsispcfncnwgycmqi,cfy
hdcjabxscwfpcyfgpcnwscagkwnczsmqis,cwscwfpcnfjkwnchscfckisfncpsfxrcWs
wfpcynjpgspcgacnwscGigywcbqxxskscgacIqhscfapcwscwfpcnfjkwnchscnq
 iqaqjabscXfngac iq sixdrcWscwfpcnqxpchscynqigsycfzqjncnwscbfnfbqhzy
fapcfzqjncAf qxsqacZqaf fins,cfapcwscwfpcst xfgaspcnqchscnwschsfagakcqm
nwscpgmmsisancbsishqagsycqmcnwscHfyycfapcqmcnwscpgmmsisanc.synhsany
oqiaczdcnwsc igsynrcYqhsnghsycwscwfpcfhjyspcwghysxmczdc jnngak
pgmmgbjxncljsyngqaycnqchs,cfyegakchscowfncqascywqjxpcpqcgacbsinfga
bgibjhynfabsycqicowsnwsicyjbwcfapcyjbwcygaycosischqinfxcqic.sagfxcqi
qaxdcgh simsbngqayrcWgycljsyngqaycywqospchscwqocbqh xstcfapchdynsigqjy
osiscbsinfgacgayngnjngqaycqmcnwscBwjibwcowgbwcGcwfpcfxofdyciskfipspcfy
nwscygh xsyncfbnyrcNwscpjngsycqmcnwsc igsyncnqofipycnwscSjbwfigyncfap
nqofipycnwscysbisbdcqmcnwscbqamsyygqafxcysshspcyqckif.scnqchscnwfncG
oqapsispcwqocfadzqpdcwfpcs.sicmqjapcgacwghysxmcnwscbqjifkscnqcjapsinfes
nwsh;cfapcGcofycaqncyji igyspcowsacwscnqxpchscnwfncnwscmfnwsiycqmcnws
Bwjibwcwfpcoignnsaczqqeycfycnwgbecfycnwsc_ qyncQmmgbscPgisbnqid_cfapcfy
bxqysxdc iganspcfycnwscxfocaqngbsycgacnwscasoy f si,csxjbgpfngakcfxx
nwsyscganigbfnscljsyngqayrcQmnsacowsacGcnwqjkwncqmcnwgycGcbqjxpchfescaq
fayosicqicqaxdcfc.sidcmqqxgywcfapcwfxngakcqascj qacowgbwcwscjyspcnq
yhgxscfapcaqpcwgycwsfpcnogbscqicnwigbsrcYqhsnghsycwscjyspcnqc jnchs
nwiqjkwcnwscisy qaysycqmcnwscHfyycowgbwcwscwfpchfpschscxsfiaczdcwsfin;
fap,cfycGc fnnsisp,cwscjyspcnqcyhgxsc sayg.sxdcfapcaqpcwgycwsfp,caqo
fapcnwsac jywgakcwjksc gabwsycqmcyajmmcj csfbwcaqynigxcfxnsiafnsxdr
Owsacwscyhgxspcwscjyspcnqcjabq.sicwgyczgkcpgybqxqjispcnssnwcfapcxsncwgy
nqakjscxgscj qacwgycxqosicxg —fcwfzgncowgbwcwfpchfpschscmssxcjasfydcga
nwsczskgaagakcqmcqjicfbljfganfabsczsmqiscGceasocwghcosxxr

FycGcofxespcfxqakcgacnwscyjacGcishshzsispcqxpcBqnnsi’ycoqipycfapcnigsp
nqcishshzsicowfncwfpcwf  saspcfmnsiofipycgacnwscpisfhrcGcishshzsisp
nwfncGcwfpcaqngbspcxqakc.sx.sncbjinfgaycfapcfcyogakgakcxfh cqmcfangljs
mfywgqarcGcmsxncnwfncGcwfpczssac.sidcmficfofd,cgacyqhscxfapcowsiscnws
bjynqhycosiscynifaks—gac siygf,cGcnwqjkwnrrrrcZjncGcbqjxpcaqncishshzsi
nwscsapcqmcnwscpisfhr

Gacnwscs.sagakchdcfjancnqqechscognwcwsicnqc.gygncnwscwqjyscqmchqjiagakr
Gncofycfmnsicyjaysn;czjncnwscogapqo- fasycqmcnwscwqjysycnwfncxqqespcnq
nwscosyncismxsbnspcnwscnfoadckqxpcqmcfckisfnczfaecqmcbxqjpyrcAfaags
isbsg.spcjycgacnwscwfxx;cfap,cfycgncoqjxpcwf.sczssacjaysshxdcnqcwf.s
ywqjnspcfncwsi,chdcfjancywqqecwfapycognwcwsicmqicfxxrcNwscqxpcoqhfa
 qganspcj ofipycgansiiqkfng.sxdcfap,cqachdcfjan’ycaqppgak,c iqbsspspcnq
nqgxcj cnwscafiiqocynfgibfysczsmqiscjy,cwsiczqospcwsfpczsgakcybfibsxd
fzq.scnwscxs.sxcqmcnwsczfagynsi-ifgxrcFncnwscmgiyncxfapgakcywscynq  sp
fapczsbeqaspcjycmqiofipcsabqjifkgakxdcnqofipycnwscq sacpqqicqmcnws
psfp-iqqhrcHdcfjancosancgacfapcnwscqxpcoqhfa,cyssgakcnwfncGcwsygnfnsp
nqcsansi,czskfacnqczsbeqacnqchscfkfgacis sfnspxdcognwcwsicwfapr

Gcosancgacqacng nqsrcNwsciqqhcnwiqjkwcnwscxfbscsapcqmcnwsczxgapcofy
yjmmjyspcognwcpjyedckqxpsacxgkwncfhgpcowgbwcnwscbfapxsycxqqespcxges
 fxscnwgacmxfhsyrcWscwfpczssacbqmmgasprcAfaagsckf.scnwscxsfpcfapcos
nwissceasxncpqoacfncnwscmqqncqmcnwsczsprcGc isnsapspcnqc ifdczjncG
bqjxpcaqnckfnwsichdcnwqjkwnyczsbfjyscnwscqxpcoqhfa’ychjnnsigaky
pgynifbnspchsrcGcaqngbspcwqocbxjhygxdcwsicyegincofycwqqespcfncnwsczfbe
fapcwqocnwscwssxycqmcwsicbxqnwczqqnycosiscniqppsacpqoacfxxcnqcqascygpsr
Nwscmfabdcbfhscnqchscnwfncnwscqxpc igsyncofycyhgxgakcfycwscxfdcnwsiscga
wgycbqmmgar

ZjncaqrcOwsacosciqyscfapcosancj cnqcnwscwsfpcqmcnwsczspcGcyfocnwfncws
ofycaqncyhgxgakrcNwsiscwscxfd,cyqxshacfapcbq gqjy,c.synspcfycmqicnws
fxnfi,cwgycxfikscwfapycxqqysxdcisnfgagakcfcbwfxgbsrcWgycmfbscofyc.sid
nijbjxsan,ckisdcfapchfyyg.s,cognwczxfbecbf.siaqjycaqynigxycfapcbgibxsp
zdcfcybfandcowgnscmjircNwsiscofycfcwsf.dcqpqjicgacnwsciqqh—nwscmxqosiyr

Osczxsyyspcqjiysx.sycfapcbfhscfofdrcGacnwscxgnnxsciqqhcpqoaynfgiycos
mqjapcSxgvfcysfnspcgacwgycfih-bwfgicgacynfnsrcGckiq spchdcofdcnqofipy
hdcjyjfxcbwfgicgacnwscbqiasicowgxscAfaagscosancnqcnwscygpszqfipcfap
ziqjkwncqjncfcpsbfansicqmcywsiidcfapcyqhscogas-kxfyysyrcYwscysncnwsys
qacnwscnfzxscfapcga.gnspcjycnqcnfescfcxgnnxsckxfyycqmcogasrcNwsa,cfn
wsicygynsi’yczgppgak,cywscmgxxspcqjncnwscywsiidcganqcnwsckxfyysycfap
 fyyspcnwshcnqcjyrcYwsc isyyspchscnqcnfescyqhscbisfhcbifbesiycfxyqczjn
GcpsbxgaspczsbfjyscGcnwqjkwncGcoqjxpchfescnqqchjbwcaqgyscsfngakcnwshr
Ywscysshspcnqczscyqhsowfncpgyf  qganspcfnchdcismjyfxcfapcosancq.si
ljgsnxdcnqcnwscyqmfcowsiscywscyfncpqoaczswgapcwsicygynsircAqcqascy qes:
oscfxxckfvspcfncnwscsh ndcmgis xfbsr

HdcfjancofgnspcjangxcSxgvfcygkwspcfapcnwsacyfgp:

“Fw,cosxx,cws’yckqascnqcfczsnnsicoqixpr”

SxgvfcygkwspcfkfgacfapczqospcwsicwsfpcgacfyysanrcHdcfjancmgaksispcnws
ynshcqmcwsicogas-kxfyyczsmqiscyg  gakcfcxgnnxsr

“Pgpcwscrrrc sfbsmjxxd?”cywscfyespr

“Qw,cljgnsc sfbsmjxxd,chf’fh,”cyfgpcSxgvfrc“Dqjcbqjxpa’ncnsxxcowsacnws
zisfnwcosancqjncqmcwghrcWscwfpcfczsfjngmjxcpsfnw,cKqpczsc ifgyspr”

“Fapcs.sidnwgakrrr?”

“MfnwsicQ’IqjiescofycgacognwcwghcfcNjsypfdcfapcfaqganspcwghcfap
 is fispcwghcfapcfxxr”

“Wsceasocnwsa?”

“Wscofycljgnscisygkaspr”

“Wscxqqeycljgnscisygkasp,”cyfgpchdcfjanr

“Nwfn’ycowfncnwscoqhfacoscwfpcgacnqcofywcwghcyfgprcYwscyfgpcwscujyn
xqqespcfycgmcwscofycfyxss ,cwscxqqespcnwfnc sfbsmjxcfapcisygkasprcAq
qascoqjxpcnwgaecws’pchfescyjbwcfczsfjngmjxcbqi ysr”

“Dsy,cgapssp,”cyfgpchdcfjanr

Ywscyg  spcfcxgnnxschqiscmiqhcwsickxfyycfapcyfgp:

“Osxx,cHgyycMxdaa,cfncfadcifnscgnchjynczscfckisfncbqhmqincmqicdqjcnq
eaqocnwfncdqjcpgpcfxxcdqjcbqjxpcmqicwghrcDqjcosisczqnwc.sidcegapcnq
wgh,cGchjyncyfdr”

Sxgvfcyhqqnwspcwsicpisyycq.sicwsiceassyr

“Fw,c qqicUfhsy!”cywscyfgprc“Kqpceaqoycoscpqascfxxcoscbqjxp,cfyc qqicfy
oscfis—oscoqjxpa’ncysscwghcofancfadnwgakcowgxscwscofycgacgnr”

Afaagscwfpcxsfaspcwsicwsfpcfkfgayncnwscyqmf- gxxqocfapcysshspcfzqjncnq
mfxxcfyxss r

“Nwsis’yc qqicAfaags,”cyfgpcSxgvf,cxqqegakcfncwsi,c“yws’ycoqiscqjnrcFxx
nwscoqiecoscwfp,cywscfapchs,cksnngakcgacnwscoqhfacnqcofywcwghcfapcnwsa
xfdgakcwghcqjncfapcnwsacnwscbqmmgacfapcnwsacfiifakgakcfzqjncnwscHfyycga
nwscbwf sxrcQaxdcmqicMfnwsicQ’IqjiescGcpqa’nceaqocowfncos’pcwf.scpqas
fncfxxrcGncofycwghcziqjkwncjycfxxcnwshcmxqosiycfapcnwshcnoq
bfapxsyngbeycqjncqmcnwscbwf sxcfapcoiqnscqjncnwscaqngbscmqicnws
_Misshfa’ycKsasifx_cfapcnqqecbwfikscqmcfxxcnwsc f siycmqicnwscbshsnsid
fapc qqicUfhsy’ycgayjifabsr”

“Ofya’ncnwfnckqqpcqmcwgh?”cyfgpchdcfjanr

Sxgvfcbxqyspcwsicsdsycfapcywqqecwsicwsfpcyxqoxdr

“Fw,cnwsis’ycaqcmigsapycxgescnwscqxpcmigsapy,”cywscyfgp,c“owsacfxxcgy
yfgpcfapcpqas,caqcmigsapycnwfncfczqpdcbfacnijynr”

“Gapssp,cnwfn’ycnijs,”cyfgpchdcfjanrc“FapcG’hcyjiscaqocnwfncws’yckqas
nqcwgycsnsiafxcisofipcwscoqa’ncmqiksncdqjcfapcfxxcdqjicegapasyycnq
wghr”

“Fw,c qqicUfhsy!”cyfgpcSxgvfrc“WscofycaqckisfncniqjzxscnqcjyrcDqj
oqjxpa’ncwsficwghcgacnwscwqjyscfadchqiscnwfacaqorcYngxx,cGceaqocws’y
kqascfapcfxxcnqcnwfnrrrr”

“Gn’ycowsacgn’ycfxxcq.sicnwfncdqj’xxchgyycwgh,”cyfgpchdcfjanr

“Gceaqocnwfn,”cyfgpcSxgvfrc“Gcoqa’nczsczigakgakcwghcgacwgycbj cqm
zssm-nsfcfadchqis,caqicdqj,chf’fh,cysapgakcwghcwgycyajmmrcFw,c qqi
Ufhsy!”

Ywscynq  sp,cfycgmcywscosiscbqhhjagakcognwcnwsc fyncfapcnwsacyfgp
ywisopxd:

“Hgapcdqj,cGcaqngbspcnwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcljssicbqhgakcq.sicwgh
xfnnsixdrcOwsas.sicG’pczigakcgacwgycyqj cnqcwghcnwsiscG’pcmgapcwghcognw
wgyczis.gfidcmfxxsacnqcnwscmxqqi,cxdgakczfbecgacnwscbwfgicfapcwgychqjnw
q sar”

Ywscxfgpcfcmgaksicfkfgayncwsicaqyscfapcmiqoasp:cnwsacywscbqangajsp:

“Zjncyngxxcfapcfxxcwsces ncqacyfdgakcnwfnczsmqiscnwscyjhhsicofycq.si
ws’pckqcqjncmqicfcpig.scqascmgascpfdcujyncnqcysscnwscqxpcwqjyscfkfga
owsiscoscosiscfxxczqiacpqoacgacGigywnqoacfapcnfeschscfapcAfaagscognw
wghrcGmcoscbqjxpcqaxdcksncqascqmcnwshcaso-mfakxspcbfiigfksycnwfnchfesy
aqcaqgyscnwfncMfnwsicQ’Iqjiescnqxpcwghcfzqjn,cnwshcognwcnwsciwsjhfngb
owssxy,cmqicnwscpfdcbwsf —wscyfgp,cfncUqwaadcIjyw’ycq.sicnwscofdcnwsis
fapcpig.scqjncnwscnwisscqmcjycnqksnwsicqmcfcYjapfdcs.sagakrcWscwfpcwgy
hgapcysncqacnwfnrrrrc qqicUfhsy!”

“NwscXqipcwf.schsibdcqacwgycyqjx!”cyfgpchdcfjanr

Sxgvfcnqqecqjncwsicwfapesibwgsmcfapcog spcwsicsdsycognwcgnrcNwsacyws
 jncgnczfbecfkfgacgacwsic qbesncfapckfvspcganqcnwscsh ndckifnscmqicyqhs
nghscognwqjncy sfegakr

“Wscofycnqqcybij jxqjycfxofdy,”cywscyfgprc“Nwscpjngsycqmcnwsc igsynwqqp
ofycnqqchjbwcmqicwghrcFapcnwsacwgycxgmscofy,cdqjchgkwncyfd,cbiqyyspr”

“Dsy,”cyfgpchdcfjanrc“Wscofycfcpgyf  qganspchfarcDqjcbqjxpcysscnwfnr”

Fcygxsabscnqqec qyysyygqacqmcnwscxgnnxsciqqhcfap,cjapsicbq.sicqmcgn,cG
f  iqfbwspcnwscnfzxscfapcnfynspchdcywsiidcfapcnwsacisnjiaspcljgsnxdcnq
hdcbwfgicgacnwscbqiasircSxgvfcysshspcnqcwf.scmfxxsacganqcfcpss cis.sidr
Oscofgnspcisy sbnmjxxdcmqicwsicnqczisfecnwscygxsabs:cfapcfmnsicfcxqak
 fjyscywscyfgpcyxqoxd:

“GncofycnwfncbwfxgbscwscziqesrrrrcNwfncofycnwsczskgaagakcqmcgnrcQm
bqjiys,cnwsdcyfdcgncofycfxxcigkwn,cnwfncgncbqanfgaspcaqnwgak,cGchsfar
ZjncyngxxrrrrcNwsdcyfdcgncofycnwsczqd’ycmfjxnrcZjnc qqicUfhsycofycyq
asi.qjy,cKqpczschsibgmjxcnqcwgh!”

“Fapcofycnwfncgn?”cyfgpchdcfjanrc“Gcwsfipcyqhsnwgakrrrr”

Sxgvfcaqppspr

“Nwfncfmmsbnspcwgychgap,”cywscyfgprc“Fmnsicnwfncwsczskfacnqchq sczd
wghysxm,cnfxegakcnqcaqcqascfapcofapsigakcfzqjnczdcwghysxmrcYqcqascagkwn
wscofycofanspcmqicnqckqcqacfcbfxxcfapcnwsdcbqjxpa’ncmgapcwghcfadowsisr
Nwsdcxqqespcwgkwcj cfapcxqocpqoa;cfapcyngxxcnwsdcbqjxpa’ncysscfcygkwn
qmcwghcfadowsisrcYqcnwsacnwscbxsiecyjkksynspcnqcnidcnwscbwf sxrcYqcnwsa
nwsdckqncnwscesdycfapcq saspcnwscbwf sxcfapcnwscbxsiecfapcMfnwsi
Q’Iqjiescfapcfaqnwsic igsyncnwfncofycnwsiscziqjkwncgacfcxgkwncmqicnq
xqqecmqicwghrrrrcFapcowfncpqcdqjcnwgaeczjncnwsiscwscofy,cygnngakcj czd
wghysxmcgacnwscpfiecgacwgycbqamsyygqa-zqt,cogps-fofescfapcxfjkwgak-xges
yqmnxdcnqcwghysxm?”

Ywscynq  spcyjppsaxdcfycgmcnqcxgynsarcGcnqqcxgynsasp;czjncnwsiscofycaq
yqjapcgacnwscwqjys:cfapcGceasocnwfncnwscqxpc igsyncofycxdgakcyngxxcga
wgycbqmmgacfycoscwfpcyssacwgh,cyqxshacfapcnijbjxsancgacpsfnw,cfacgpxs
bwfxgbscqacwgyczisfynr

Sxgvfcisyjhsp:

“Ogps-fofescfapcxfjkwgak-xgescnqcwghysxmrrrrcYqcnwsa,cqmcbqjiys,cowsa
nwsdcyfocnwfn,cnwfnchfpscnwshcnwgaecnwfncnwsiscofycyqhsnwgakckqascoiqak
ognwcwghrrrr”



FAcSABQJANSI

GncofycUqscPgxxqacowqcganiqpjbspcnwscOgxpcOsyncnqcjyrcWscwfpcfcxgnnxs
xgzifidchfpscj cqmcqxpcajhzsiycqmc_NwscJagqacUfbe_,c_ xjbe_cfapc_Nws
Wfxm saadcHfi.sx_rcS.sidcs.sagakcfmnsicybwqqxcoschsncgacwgyczfbeckfipsa
fapcfiifakspcGapgfaczfnnxsyrcWscfapcwgycmfncdqjakcziqnwsicXsq,cnws
gpxsi,cwsxpcnwscxqmncqmcnwscynfzxscowgxscoscnigspcnqcbfiidcgnczdcynqih;
qicoscmqjkwncfc gnbwspczfnnxscqacnwsckifyyrcZjn,cwqos.sicosxxcos
mqjkwn,coscas.sicoqacygskscqiczfnnxscfapcfxxcqjiczqjnycsapspcognwcUqs
Pgxxqa’ycoficpfabscqmc.gbnqidrcWgyc fisanycosancnqcsgkwn-q’bxqbechfyy
s.sidchqiagakcgacKfipgasicYnissncfapcnwsc sfbsmjxcqpqjicqmcHiycPgxxqa
ofyc is.fxsancgacnwscwfxxcqmcnwscwqjysrcZjncwsc xfdspcnqqcmgsibsxdcmqi
jycowqcosiscdqjaksicfapchqiscnghgprcWscxqqespcxgescyqhscegapcqmcfa
Gapgfacowsacwscbf sispciqjapcnwsckfipsa,cfacqxpcnsf-bqydcqacwgycwsfp,
zsfngakcfcngacognwcwgycmgyncfapcdsxxgak:

“Df!cdfef,cdfef,cdfef!”

S.sidqascofycgabispjxqjycowsacgncofycis qinspcnwfncwscwfpcfc.qbfngqa
mqicnwsc igsynwqqprcAs.sinwsxsyycgncofycnijsr

Fcy gigncqmcjaijxgasyycpgmmjyspcgnysxmcfhqakcjycfap,cjapsicgny
gamxjsabs,cpgmmsisabsycqmcbjxnjiscfapcbqayngnjngqacosiscofg.sprcOs
zfapspcqjiysx.sycnqksnwsi,cyqhsczqxpxd,cyqhscgacusyncfapcyqhscfxhqyncga
msfi:cfapcqmcnwscajhzsicqmcnwsyscxfnnsi,cnwscisxjbnfancGapgfaycowqcosis
fmifgpcnqcysshcynjpgqjycqicxfbegakcgaciqzjynasyy,cGcofycqasrcNws
fp.sanjisycisxfnspcgacnwscxgnsifnjiscqmcnwscOgxpcOsyncosiscishqnscmiqh
hdcafnjisczjn,cfncxsfyn,cnwsdcq saspcpqqiycqmcsybf srcGcxgespczsnnsi
yqhscFhsigbfacpsnsbng.scynqigsycowgbwcosiscnif.siyspcmiqhcnghscnqcnghs
zdcjaesh ncmgsibscfapczsfjngmjxckgixyrcNwqjkwcnwsiscofycaqnwgakcoiqak
gacnwsyscynqigsycfapcnwqjkwcnwsgicgansangqacofycyqhsnghsycxgnsifidcnwsd
osiscbgibjxfnspcysbisnxdcfncybwqqxrcQascpfdcowsacMfnwsicZjnxsicofy
wsfigakcnwscmqjic fksycqmcIqhfacWgynqidcbxjhydcXsqcPgxxqacofy
pgybq.sispcognwcfcbq dcqmc_NwscWfxm saadcHfi.sx_r

“Nwgyc fkscqicnwgyc fks?cNwgyc fks?cAqo,cPgxxqa,cj !c_‘Wfipxdcwfpcnws
pfd’rrrr_cKqcqa!cOwfncpfd?c_‘Wfipxdcwfpcnwscpfdcpfoasp’rrrr_cWf.scdqj
ynjpgspcgn?cOwfncwf.scdqjcnwsiscgacdqjic qbesn?”

S.sidqas’ycwsfinc fx gnfnspcfycXsqcPgxxqacwfapspcj cnwsc f sicfap
s.sidqascfyyjhspcfacgaaqbsancmfbsrcMfnwsicZjnxsicnjiaspcq.sicnwsc fksy,
miqoagakr

“Owfncgycnwgycijzzgyw?”cwscyfgprc“_NwscF fbwscBwgsm!_cGycnwgycowfncdqj
isfpcgaynsfpcqmcynjpdgakcdqjicIqhfacWgynqid?cXsnchscaqncmgapcfadchqis
qmcnwgycoisnbwspcynjmmcgacnwgycbqxxsksrcNwschfacowqcoiqnscgn,cG
yj  qys,cofycyqhscoisnbwspcmsxxqocowqcoignsycnwsyscnwgakycmqicfcpigaer
G’hcyji igyspcfnczqdycxgescdqj,cspjbfnsp,cisfpgakcyjbwcynjmmrcGcbqjxp
japsiynfapcgncgmcdqjcosiscrrrcAfngqafxcYbwqqxczqdyrcAqo,cPgxxqa,cG
fp.gyscdqjcyniqakxd,cksncfncdqjicoqiecqirrrr”

Nwgyciszjescpjigakcnwscyqzsicwqjiycqmcybwqqxc fxspchjbwcqmcnwsckxqidcqm
nwscOgxpcOsyncmqichscfapcnwscbqamjyspc jmmdcmfbscqmcXsqcPgxxqacfofesasp
qascqmchdcbqaybgsabsyrcZjncowsacnwscisynifgagakcgamxjsabscqmcnwscybwqqx
ofycfncfcpgynfabscGczskfacnqcwjaksicfkfgacmqicogxpcysayfngqay,cmqicnws
sybf scowgbwcnwqyscbwiqagbxsycqmcpgyqipsicfxqascysshspcnqcqmmsichsrcNws
hghgbcofimfiscqmcnwscs.sagakczsbfhscfncxfyncfycosfigyqhscnqchscfycnws
iqjngascqmcybwqqxcgacnwschqiagakczsbfjyscGcofanspcisfxcfp.sanjisycnq
wf  sacnqchdysxmrcZjncisfxcfp.sanjisy,cGcismxsbnsp,cpqcaqncwf  sacnq
 sq xscowqcishfgacfncwqhs:cnwsdchjynczscyqjkwncfziqfpr

NwscyjhhsicwqxgpfdycosiscasficfncwfapcowsacGchfpscj chdchgapcnqczisfe
qjncqmcnwscosfigasyycqmcybwqqx-xgmscmqicqascpfdcfncxsfynrcOgnwcXsq
PgxxqacfapcfczqdcafhspcHfwqadcGc xfaaspcfcpfd’ychgbwgakrcSfbwcqmcjy
yf.spcj cygt sabsrcOscosiscnqchssncfncnsacgacnwschqiagakcqacnwscBfafx
ZigpksrcHfwqad’yczgkcygynsicofycnqcoignscfacstbjyscmqicwghcfapcXsq
PgxxqacofycnqcnsxxcwgycziqnwsicnqcyfdcwscofycygbercOscfiifakspcnqckq
fxqakcnwscOwfimcIqfpcjangxcoscbfhscnqcnwscywg y,cnwsacnqcbiqyycgacnws
msiidzqfncfapcofxecqjncnqcysscnwsc gksqacWqjysrcXsqcPgxxqacofycfmifgp
oschgkwnchssncMfnwsicZjnxsicqicyqhsqascqjncqmcnwscbqxxsks;czjncHfwqad
fyesp,c.sidcysaygzxd,cowfncoqjxpcMfnwsicZjnxsiczscpqgakcqjncfncnws
 gksqacWqjysrcOscosiscisfyyjisp:cfapcGcziqjkwncnwscmgiyncynfkscqmcnws
 xqncnqcfacsapczdcbqxxsbngakcygt sabscmiqhcnwscqnwsicnoq,cfncnwscyfhs
nghscywqogakcnwshchdcqoacygt sabsrcOwsacoscosischfegakcnwscxfyn
fiifakshsanycqacnwscs.scoscosiscfxxc.fkjsxdcstbgnsprcOscywqqecwfapy,
xfjkwgak,cfapcHfwqadcyfgp:

“Ngxxcnqhqiiqo,chfnsy!”

NwfncagkwncGcyxs nczfpxdrcGacnwschqiagakcGcofycmgiyn-bqhsicnqcnws
zigpkscfycGcxg.spcasfisynrcGcwgpchdczqqeycgacnwscxqakckifyycasficnws
fyw gncfncnwscsapcqmcnwsckfipsacowsiscaqzqpdcs.sicbfhscfapcwjiigsp
fxqakcnwscbfafxczfaercGncofycfchgxpcyjaadchqiagakcgacnwscmgiyncossecqm
UjasrcGcyfncj cqacnwscbq gakcqmcnwsczigpkscfphgigakchdcmifgxcbfa.fy
ywqsycowgbwcGcwfpcpgxgksanxdc g sbxfdspcq.siagkwncfapcofnbwgakcnws
pqbgxscwqiysyc jxxgakcfcnifhxqfpcqmczjygasyyc sq xscj cnwscwgxxrcFxx
nwsczifabwsycqmcnwscnfxxcnissycowgbwcxgaspcnwschfxxcosisckfdcognw
xgnnxscxgkwnckissacxsf.sycfapcnwscyjaxgkwncyxfanspcnwiqjkwcnwshcqacnq
nwscofnsircNwsckifagnscynqascqmcnwsczigpkscofyczskgaagakcnqczscofihcfap
Gczskfacnqc fncgncognwchdcwfapycgacnghscnqcfacfgicgachdcwsfprcGcofy
.sidcwf  dr

OwsacGcwfpczssacygnngakcnwsiscmqicmg.scqicnsachgajnsycGcyfocHfwqad’y
kisdcyjgncf  iqfbwgakrcWscbfhscj cnwscwgxx,cyhgxgak,cfapcbxfhzsispcj 
zsygpschscqacnwsczigpksrcOwgxscoscosiscofgngakcwscziqjkwncqjncnws
bfnf jxncowgbwczjxkspcmiqhcwgycgaasic qbesncfapcst xfgaspcyqhs
gh iq.shsanycowgbwcwscwfpchfpscgacgnrcGcfyespcwghcowdcwscwfpcziqjkwncgn
fapcwscnqxpchscwscwfpcziqjkwncgncnqcwf.scyqhsckfycognwcnwsczgipyr
Hfwqadcjyspcyxfakcmissxd,cfapcy qescqmcMfnwsicZjnxsicfycQxpcZjaysircOs
ofgnspcqacmqicfcljfinsicqmcfacwqjichqisczjncyngxxcnwsiscofycaqcygkacqm
XsqcPgxxqarcHfwqad,cfncxfyn,cujh spcpqoacfapcyfgp:

“BqhscfxqakrcGceasocMfnnd’pcmjaecgnr”

“Fapcwgycygt sabsrrr?”cGcyfgpr

“Nwfn’ycmqimsgn,”cyfgpcHfwqadrc“Fapcyqchjbwcnwsczsnnsicmqicjy—fczqzcfap
fcnfaasicgaynsfpcqmcfczqzr”

OscofxespcfxqakcnwscAqinwcYnifapcIqfpcngxxcoscbfhscnqcnwsc.gnigqxcOqiey
fapcnwsacnjiaspcnqcnwscigkwncfxqakcnwscOwfimcIqfprcHfwqadczskfacnqc xfd
nwscGapgfacfycyqqacfycoscosiscqjncqmc jzxgbcygkwnrcWscbwfyspcfcbiqopcqm
ifkkspckgixy,czifapgywgakcwgycjaxqfpspcbfnf jxncfap,cowsacnoqcifkksp
zqdyczskfa,cqjncqmcbwg.fxid,cnqcmxgakcynqasycfncjy,cwsc iq qyspcnwfncos
ywqjxpcbwfikscnwshrcGcqzusbnspcnwfncnwsczqdycosiscnqqcyhfxxcfapcyqcos
ofxespcqa,cnwscifkkspcniqq cybisfhgakcfmnsicjy:c_“Yofppxsiy!
Yofppxsiy!”_cnwgaegakcnwfncoscosisc iqnsynfanyczsbfjyscHfwqad,cowqcofy
pfie-bqh xstgqasp,coqiscnwscygx.siczfpkscqmcfcbigbesncbxjzcgacwgycbf r
OwsacoscbfhscnqcnwscYhqqnwgakcGiqacoscfiifakspcfcygsks;czjncgncofycf
mfgxjisczsbfjyscdqjchjyncwf.scfncxsfyncnwissrcOscis.sakspcqjiysx.sycqa
XsqcPgxxqaczdcyfdgakcowfncfcmjaecwscofycfapckjsyygakcwqochfadcwscoqjxp
ksncfncnwisscq’bxqbecmiqhcHicIdfar

Oscbfhscnwsacasficnwscig.sircOscy sancfcxqakcnghscofxegakcfzqjncnws
aqgydcynissnycmxfaespczdcwgkwcynqascofxxy,cofnbwgakcnwscoqiegakcqm
bifasycfapcsakgasycfapcqmnsaczsgakcywqjnspcfncmqicqjicghhqzgxgndczdcnws
pig.siycqmckiqfagakcbfinyrcGncofycaqqacowsacoscisfbwspcnwscljfdycfap,
fycfxxcnwscxfzqjisiycysshspcnqczscsfngakcnwsgicxjabwsy,cosczqjkwncnoq
zgkcbjiifanczjaycfapcyfncpqoacnqcsfncnwshcqacyqhschsnfxc g gakczsygps
nwscig.sircOsc xsfyspcqjiysx.sycognwcnwscy sbnfbxscqmcPjzxga’y
bqhhsibs—nwsczfiksycygkafxxspcmiqhcmficfofdczdcnwsgicbjixycqmcoqqxxd
yhqes,cnwscziqoacmgywgakcmxssnczsdqapcIgakysap,cnwsczgkcowgns
yfgxgak-.syysxcowgbwcofyczsgakcpgybwfikspcqacnwscq  qygnscljfdrcHfwqad
yfgpcgncoqjxpczscigkwncyegncnqcijacfofdcnqcysfcqacqascqmcnwqysczgk
ywg ycfapcs.sacG,cxqqegakcfncnwscwgkwchfyny,cyfo,cqicghfkgasp,cnws
ksqkif wdcowgbwcwfpczssacybfangxdcpqyspcnqchscfncybwqqxckifpjfxxd
nfegakcyjzynfabscjapsichdcsdsyrcYbwqqxcfapcwqhscysshspcnqcisbspscmiqh
jycfapcnwsgicgamxjsabsycj qacjycysshspcnqcofasr

OscbiqyyspcnwscXgmmsdcgacnwscmsiidzqfn,c fdgakcqjicnqxxcnqczs
nifay qinspcgacnwscbqh fadcqmcnoqcxfzqjisiycfapcfcxgnnxscUsocognwcf
zfkrcOscosiscysigqjycnqcnwsc qgancqmcyqxshagnd,czjncqabscpjigakcnws
ywqinc.qdfkscqjicsdsychsncfapcoscxfjkwsprcOwsacoscxfapspcoscofnbwspcnws
pgybwfikgakcqmcnwsckifbsmjxcnwisshfynsicowgbwcoscwfpcqzysi.spcmiqhcnws
qnwsicljfdrcYqhsczdynfapsicyfgpcnwfncywscofycfcAqioskgfac.syysxrcGcosan
nqcnwscynsiacfapcnigspcnqcpsbg wsicnwscxsksapcj qacgnczjn,cmfgxgakcnq
pqcyq,cGcbfhsczfbecfapcstfhgaspcnwscmqisgkacyfgxqiycnqcysscwfpcfadcqm
nwshckissacsdsycmqicGcwfpcyqhscbqamjyspcaqngqarrrrcNwscyfgxqiy’csdsy
osisczxjscfapckisdcfapcs.saczxfbercNwscqaxdcyfgxqicowqyscsdsycbqjxp
wf.sczssacbfxxspckissacofycfcnfxxchfacowqcfhjyspcnwscbiqopcqacnwscljfd
zdcbfxxgakcqjncbwssimjxxdcs.sidcnghscnwsc xfaeycmsxx:

“Fxxcigkwn!cFxxcigkwn!”

OwsacoscosiscngispcqmcnwgycygkwncoscofapsispcyxqoxdcganqcIgakysaprcNws
pfdcwfpckiqoacyjxnid,cfapcgacnwscogapqoycqmcnwsckiqbsiy’cywq ychjynd
zgybjgnycxfdczxsfbwgakrcOsczqjkwncyqhsczgybjgnycfapcbwqbqxfnscowgbwcos
fnscyspjxqjyxdcfycoscofapsispcnwiqjkwcnwscyljfxgpcynissnycowsiscnws
mfhgxgsycqmcnwscmgywsihsacxg.srcOscbqjxpcmgapcaqcpfgidcfapcyqcoscosan
ganqcfcwjbeynsi’ycywq cfapczqjkwncfczqnnxscqmcify zsiidcxshqafpscsfbwr
Ismisywspczdcnwgy,cHfwqadcbwfyspcfcbfncpqoacfcxfas,czjncnwscbfncsybf sp
ganqcfcogpscmgsxprcOsczqnwcmsxncifnwsicngispcfapcowsacoscisfbwspcnws
mgsxpcoschfpscfncqabscmqicfcyxq gakczfaecq.sicnwscigpkscqmcowgbwcos
bqjxpcysscnwscPqppsir

Gncofycnqqcxfnscfapcoscosiscnqqcngispcnqcbfiidcqjncqjic iqusbncqm
.gygngakcnwsc gksqacWqjysrcOscwfpcnqczscwqhsczsmqiscmqjicq’bxqbecxsyn
qjicfp.sanjiscywqjxpczscpgybq.sisprcHfwqadcxqqespciskisnmjxxdcfncwgy
bfnf jxncfapcGcwfpcnqcyjkksynckqgakcwqhsczdcnifgaczsmqiscwsciskfgasp
fadcbwssimjxasyyrcNwscyjacosancgaczswgapcyqhscbxqjpycfapcxsmncjycnqcqji
ufpspcnwqjkwnycfapcnwscbijhzycqmcqjic iq.gygqayr

Nwsiscofycaqzqpdczjncqjiysx.sycgacnwscmgsxprcOwsacoscwfpcxfgacqacnws
zfaecmqicyqhscnghscognwqjncy sfegakcGcyfocfchfacf  iqfbwgakcmiqhcnws
mficsapcqmcnwscmgsxprcGcofnbwspcwghcxfvgxdcfycGcbwsospcqascqmcnwqys
kissacynshycqacowgbwckgixycnsxxcmqinjasyrcWscbfhscfxqakczdcnwsczfae
yxqoxdrcWscofxespcognwcqascwfapcj qacwgycwg cfapcgacnwscqnwsicwfapcws
wsxpcfcyngbecognwcowgbwcwscnf  spcnwscnjimcxgkwnxdrcWscofycywfzzgxd
pisyyspcgacfcyjgncqmckissagyw-zxfbecfapcoqiscowfncoscjyspcnqcbfxxcf
usiidcwfncognwcfcwgkwcbiqoarcWscysshspcnqczscmfgixdcqxpcmqicwgy
hqjynfbwscofycfywsa-kisdrcOwsacwsc fyyspcfncqjicmssncwsckxfabspcj cfn
jycljgbexdcfapcnwsacbqangajspcwgycofdrcOscmqxxqospcwghcognwcqjicsdsy
fapcyfocnwfncowsacwscwfpckqascqacmqic siwf ycmgmndc fbsycwscnjiasp
fzqjncfapczskfacnqcisnifbscwgycyns yrcWscofxespcnqofipycjyc.sidcyxqoxd,
fxofdycnf  gakcnwsckiqjapcognwcwgycyngbe,cyqcyxqoxdcnwfncGcnwqjkwncws
ofycxqqegakcmqicyqhsnwgakcgacnwsckifyyr

Wscynq  spcowsacwscbfhscxs.sxcognwcjycfapczfpscjyckqqp-pfdrcOscfayosisp
wghcfapcwscyfncpqoaczsygpscjycqacnwscyxq scyxqoxdcfapcognwckisfncbfisr
Wsczskfacnqcnfxecqmcnwscosfnwsi,cyfdgakcnwfncgncoqjxpczscfc.sidcwqn
yjhhsicfapcfppgakcnwfncnwscysfyqaycwfpcbwfakspckisfnxdcygabscwscofycf
zqd—fcxqakcnghscfkqrcWscyfgpcnwfncnwscwf  gsyncnghscqmcqas’ycxgmscofy
japqjznspxdcqas’ycybwqqxzqdcpfdycfapcnwfncwscoqjxpckg.scfadnwgakcnqczs
dqjakcfkfgarcOwgxscwscst isyyspcnwsyscysanghsanycowgbwczqispcjycf
xgnnxscosces ncygxsanrcNwsacwsczskfacnqcnfxecqmcybwqqxcfapcqmczqqeyrcWs
fyespcjycowsnwsicoscwfpcisfpcnwsc qsnidcqmcNwqhfycHqqiscqicnwscoqieycqm
YgicOfxnsicYbqnncfapcXqipcXdnnqarcGc isnsapspcnwfncGcwfpcisfpcs.sid
zqqecwschsangqaspcyqcnwfncgacnwscsapcwscyfgp:

“Fw,cGcbfacysscdqjcfiscfczqqeoqihcxgeschdysxmrcAqo,”cwscfppsp,c qgangak
nqcHfwqadcowqcofyciskfipgakcjycognwcq sacsdsy,c“wscgycpgmmsisan;cws
kqsycgacmqickfhsyr”

WscyfgpcwscwfpcfxxcYgicOfxnsicYbqnn’ycoqieycfapcfxxcXqipcXdnnqa’ycoqiey
fncwqhscfapcas.sicngispcqmcisfpgakcnwshrc“Qmcbqjiys,”cwscyfgp,c“nwsis
osiscyqhscqmcXqipcXdnnqa’ycoqieycowgbwczqdycbqjxpa’ncisfpr”cHfwqad
fyespcowdcbqjxpa’nczqdycisfpcnwsh—fcljsyngqacowgbwcfkgnfnspcfapc fgasp
hsczsbfjyscGcofycfmifgpcnwschfacoqjxpcnwgaecGcofycfycynj gpcfycHfwqadr
Nwschfa,cwqos.si,cqaxdcyhgxsprcGcyfocnwfncwscwfpckisfnckf ycgacwgy
hqjnwczsnossacwgycdsxxqocnssnwrcNwsacwscfyespcjycowgbwcqmcjycwfpcnws
hqyncyossnwsfinyrcHfwqadchsangqaspcxgkwnxdcnwfncwscwfpcnwisscnqnngsyr
NwschfacfyespchscwqochfadcwfpcGrcGcfayosispcnwfncGcwfpcaqasrcWscpgpcaqn
zsxgs.schscfapcyfgpcwscofycyjiscGchjyncwf.scqasrcGcofycygxsanr

“Nsxxcjy,”cyfgpcHfwqadc sinxdcnqcnwschfa,c“wqochfadcwf.scdqjcdqjiysxm?”

Nwschfacyhgxspcfyczsmqiscfapcyfgpcnwfncowsacwscofycqjicfkscwscwfpcxqny
qmcyossnwsfinyr

“S.sidczqd,”cwscyfgp,c“wfycfcxgnnxscyossnwsfinr”

Wgycfnngnjpscqacnwgyc qgancynijbechscfycynifaksxdcxgzsifxcgacfchfacqm
wgycfksrcGachdcwsfincGcnwqjkwncnwfncowfncwscyfgpcfzqjnczqdycfap
yossnwsfinycofycisfyqafzxsrcZjncGcpgyxgespcnwscoqipycgacwgychqjnwcfapcG
oqapsispcowdcwscywg.sispcqabscqicnogbscfycgmcwscmsfispcyqhsnwgakcqi
msxncfcyjppsacbwgxxrcFycwsc iqbsspspcGcaqngbspcnwfncwgycfbbsancofy
kqqprcWsczskfacnqcy sfecnqcjycfzqjnckgixy,cyfdgakcowfncagbscyqmncwfgi
nwsdcwfpcfapcwqocyqmncnwsgicwfapycosiscfapcwqocfxxckgixycosiscaqncyq
kqqpcfycnwsdcysshspcnqczscgmcqascqaxdceasorcNwsiscofycaqnwgakcwscxgesp,
wscyfgp,cyqchjbwcfycxqqegakcfncfcagbscdqjakckgix,cfncwsicagbscowgns
wfapycfapcwsiczsfjngmjxcyqmncwfgircWsckf.schscnwscgh isyygqacnwfncws
ofycis sfngakcyqhsnwgakcowgbwcwscwfpcxsfiaspczdcwsfincqicnwfn,
hfkasngyspczdcyqhscoqipycqmcwgycqoacy ssbw,cwgychgapcofycyxqoxd
bgibxgakciqjapcfapciqjapcgacnwscyfhscqizgnrcFncnghsycwscy qescfycgmcws
osiscygh xdcfxxjpgakcnqcyqhscmfbncnwfncs.sidzqpdceaso,cfapcfncnghsycws
xqosispcwgyc.qgbscfapcy qeschdynsigqjyxdcfycgmcwscosiscnsxxgakcjy
yqhsnwgakcysbisncowgbwcwscpgpcaqncogywcqnwsiycnqcq.siwsfircWscis sfnsp
wgyc wifysycq.sicfapcq.sicfkfga,c.fidgakcnwshcfapcyjiiqjapgakcnwshcognw
wgychqaqnqaqjyc.qgbsrcGcbqangajspcnqckfvscnqofipycnwscmqqncqmcnws
yxq s,cxgynsagakcnqcwghr

Fmnsicfcxqakcowgxscwgychqaqxqkjsc fjysprcWscynqqpcj cyxqoxd,cyfdgak
nwfncwscwfpcnqcxsf.scjycmqicfchgajnscqicyq,cfcmsochgajnsy,cfap,cognwqjn
bwfakgakcnwscpgisbngqacqmchdckfvs,cGcyfocwghcofxegakcyxqoxdcfofdcmiqh
jycnqofipycnwscasficsapcqmcnwscmgsxprcOscishfgaspcygxsancowsacwscwfp
kqasrcFmnsicfcygxsabscqmcfcmsochgajnsycGcwsfipcHfwqadcstbxfgh:

“Gcyfd!cXqqecowfncws’ycpqgak!”

FycGcasgnwsicfayosispcaqicifgyspchdcsdsycHfwqadcstbxfghspcfkfga:

“GcyfdrrrrcWs’ycfcljssicqxpcuqyysi!”

“Gacbfyscwscfyeycjycmqicqjicafhsy,”cGcyfgp,c“xsncdqjczscHji wdcfapcG’xx
zscYhgnwr”

OscyfgpcaqnwgakcmjinwsicnqcsfbwcqnwsircGcofycyngxxcbqaygpsigakcowsnwsi
Gcoqjxpckqcfofdcqicaqncowsacnwschfacbfhsczfbecfapcyfncpqoaczsygpscjy
fkfgarcWfipxdcwfpcwscyfncpqoacowsacHfwqad,cbfnbwgakcygkwncqmcnwscbfn
owgbwcwfpcsybf spcwgh,cy ifakcj cfapc jiyjspcwsicfbiqyycnwscmgsxprcNws
hfacfapcGcofnbwspcnwscbwfysrcNwscbfncsybf spcqabschqiscfapcHfwqadczskfa
nqcnwiqocynqasycfncnwscofxxcywscwfpcsybfxfpsprcPsygyngakcmiqhcnwgy,cws
zskfacnqcofapsicfzqjncnwscmficsapcqmcnwscmgsxp,cfghxsyyxdr

Fmnsicfacgansi.fxcnwschfacy qescnqchsrcWscyfgpcnwfnchdcmigsapcofycf
.sidciqjkwczqdcfapcfyespcpgpcwscksncowg  spcqmnsacfncybwqqxrcGcofy
kqgakcnqcis xdcgapgkafanxdcnwfncoscosiscaqncAfngqafxcYbwqqxczqdycnqczs
owg  sp,cfycwscbfxxspcgn;czjncGcishfgaspcygxsanrcWsczskfacnqcy sfecqa
nwscyjzusbncqmcbwfyngygakczqdyrcWgychgap,cfycgmchfkasngyspcfkfgaczdcwgy
y ssbw,cysshspcnqcbgibxscyxqoxdciqjapcfapciqjapcgnycasocbsanisrcWscyfgp
nwfncowsaczqdycosiscnwfncegapcnwsdcqjkwncnqczscowg  spcfapcosxx
owg  sprcOwsacfczqdcofyciqjkwcfapcjaijxdcnwsiscofycaqnwgakcoqjxpcpqcwgh
fadckqqpczjncfckqqpcyqjapcowg  gakrcFcyxf cqacnwscwfapcqicfczqtcqacnws
sficofycaqckqqp:cowfncwscofanspcofycnqcksncfcagbscofihcowg  gakrcGcofy
yji igyspcfncnwgycysanghsancfapcga.qxjanfigxdckxfabspcj cfncwgycmfbsr
FycGcpgpcyqcGchsncnwsckfvscqmcfc fgicqmczqnnxs-kissacsdsyc ssigakcfnchs
miqhcjapsicfcnognbwgakcmqiswsfprcGcnjiaspchdcsdsycfofdcfkfgar

NwschfacbqangajspcwgychqaqxqkjsrcWscysshspcnqcwf.scmqikqnnsacwgycisbsan
xgzsifxgyhrcWscyfgpcnwfncgmcs.sicwscmqjapcfczqdcnfxegakcnqckgixycqi
wf.gakcfckgixcmqicfcyossnwsfincwscoqjxpcowg cwghcfapcowg cwgh;cfapcnwfn
oqjxpcnsfbwcwghcaqncnqczscnfxegakcnqckgixyrcFapcgmcfczqdcwfpcfckgixcmqi
fcyossnwsfincfapcnqxpcxgsycfzqjncgncnwsacwscoqjxpckg.scwghcyjbwcf
owg  gakcfycaqczqdcs.sickqncgacnwgycoqixprcWscyfgpcnwfncnwsiscofy
aqnwgakcgacnwgycoqixpcwscoqjxpcxgescyqcosxxcfycnwfnrcWscpsybigzspcnqchs
wqocwscoqjxpcowg cyjbwcfczqdcfycgmcwscosiscjamqxpgakcyqhscsxfzqifns
hdynsidrcWscoqjxpcxq.scnwfn,cwscyfgp,czsnnsicnwfacfadnwgakcgacnwgy
oqixp;cfapcwgyc.qgbs,cfycwscxspchschqaqnqaqjyxdcnwiqjkwcnwschdynsid,
kisocfxhqyncfmmsbngqafnscfapcysshspcnqc xsfpcognwchscnwfncGcywqjxp
japsiynfapcwghr

Gcofgnspcngxxcwgychqaqxqkjsc fjyspcfkfgarcNwsacGcynqqpcj cfzij nxdr
XsyncGcywqjxpczsnifdchdcfkgnfngqacGcpsxfdspcfcmsochqhsanyc isnsapgakcnq
mgtchdcywqsc iq sixdcfapcnwsa,cyfdgakcnwfncGcofycqzxgkspcnqckq,cGczfps
wghckqqp-pfdrcGcosancj cnwscyxq scbfxhxdczjnchdcwsfincofyczsfngak
ljgbexdcognwcmsficnwfncwscoqjxpcysgvschsczdcnwscfaexsyrcOwsacGcisfbwsp
nwscnq cqmcnwscyxq scGcnjiaspciqjapcfap,cognwqjncxqqegakcfncwgh,cbfxxsp
xqjpxdcfbiqyycnwscmgsxp:

“Hji wd!”

Hdc.qgbscwfpcfacfbbsancqmcmqibspczif.sidcgacgncfapcGcofycfywfhspcqmchd
 fxnidcynifnfkshrcGcwfpcnqcbfxxcnwscafhscfkfgaczsmqiscHfwqadcyfochscfap
wfxxqqspcgacfayosircWqochdcwsfinczsfncfycwscbfhscijaagakcfbiqyycnws
mgsxpcnqchs!cWscifacfycgmcnqczigakchscfgprcFapcGcofyc sagnsan;cmqicga
hdcwsfincGcwfpcfxofdycpsy gyspcwghcfcxgnnxsr



FIFZD

AqinwcIgbwhqapcYnissn,czsgakczxgap,cofycfcljgsncynissncstbs ncfncnws
wqjicowsacnwscBwigyngfacZiqnwsiy’cYbwqqxcysncnwsczqdycmissrcFa
jagawfzgnspcwqjyscqmcnoqcynqisdycynqqpcfncnwsczxgapcsap,cpsnfbwspcmiqh
gnycasgkwzqjiycgacfcyljfisckiqjaprcNwscqnwsicwqjysycqmcnwscynissn,
bqaybgqjycqmcpsbsancxg.sycognwgacnwsh,ckfvspcfncqascfaqnwsicognwcziqoa
gh sinjizfzxscmfbsyr

Nwscmqihsicnsafancqmcqjicwqjys,cfc igsyn,cwfpcpgspcgacnwsczfbe
pifogak-iqqhrcFgi,chjyndcmiqhcwf.gakczssacxqakcsabxqysp,cwjakcgacfxx
nwsciqqhy,cfapcnwscofynsciqqhczswgapcnwscegnbwsacofycxgnnsispcognwcqxp
jysxsyyc f siyrcFhqakcnwsyscGcmqjapcfcmsoc f si-bq.sispczqqey,cnws
 fksycqmcowgbwcosiscbjixspcfapcpfh :c_NwscFzzqn_,czdcOfxnsicYbqnn,c_Nws
Ps.qjncBqhhjagbfan_cfapc_NwscHshqgiycqmc.gpqbl_rcGcxgespcnwscxfynczsyn
zsbfjyscgnycxsf.sycosiscdsxxqorcNwscogxpckfipsaczswgapcnwscwqjys
bqanfgaspcfcbsanifxcf  xs-nisscfapcfcmsocynifkkxgakczjywsycjapsicqascqm
owgbwcGcmqjapcnwscxfnscnsafan’ycijyndczgbdbxs- jh rcWscwfpczssacfc.sid
bwfignfzxsc igsyn;cgacwgycogxxcwscwfpcxsmncfxxcwgychqasdcnq
gayngnjngqaycfapcnwscmjiagnjiscqmcwgycwqjyscnqcwgycygynsir

Owsacnwscywqincpfdycqmcogansicbfhscpjyecmsxxczsmqiscoscwfpcosxxcsfnsa
qjicpgaasiyrcOwsacoschsncgacnwscynissncnwscwqjysycwfpckiqoacyqhzisrcNws
y fbscqmcyedcfzq.scjycofycnwscbqxqjicqmcs.si-bwfakgakc.gqxsncfap
nqofipycgncnwscxfh ycqmcnwscynissncxgmnspcnwsgicmsszxscxfansiayrcNws
bqxpcfgicynjakcjycfapcosc xfdspcngxxcqjiczqpgsyckxqosprcQjicywqjny
sbwqspcgacnwscygxsancynissnrcNwscbfissicqmcqjic xfdcziqjkwncjycnwiqjkw
nwscpfiechjppdcxfasyczswgapcnwscwqjysycowsiscoscifacnwsckfjanxsncqmcnws
iqjkwcnigzsycmiqhcnwscbqnnfksy,cnqcnwsczfbecpqqiycqmcnwscpfiecpig  gak
kfipsaycowsiscqpqjiycfiqyscmiqhcnwscfyw gny,cnqcnwscpfiecqpqiqjy
ynfzxsycowsiscfcbqfbwhfacyhqqnwspcfapcbqhzspcnwscwqiyscqicywqqechjygb
miqhcnwsczjbexspcwfiasyyrcOwsacoscisnjiaspcnqcnwscynissncxgkwncmiqhcnws
egnbwsacogapqoycwfpcmgxxspcnwscfisfyrcGmchdcjabxscofycyssacnjiagakcnws
bqiasicoscwgpcgacnwscywfpqocjangxcoscwfpcyssacwghcyfmsxdcwqjysprcQicgm
Hfakfa’ycygynsicbfhscqjncqacnwscpqqiyns cnqcbfxxcwsicziqnwsicgacnqcwgy
nsfcoscofnbwspcwsicmiqhcqjicywfpqoc ssicj cfapcpqoacnwscynissnrcOs
ofgnspcnqcysscowsnwsicywscoqjxpcishfgacqickqcgacfap,cgmcywscishfgasp,
oscxsmncqjicywfpqocfapcofxespcj cnqcHfakfa’ycyns ycisygkaspxdrcYwscofy
ofgngakcmqicjy,cwsicmgkjiscpsmgaspczdcnwscxgkwncmiqhcnwscwfxm-q sasp
pqqircWsicziqnwsicfxofdycnsfyspcwsiczsmqiscwscqzsdspcfapcGcynqqpczdcnws
ifgxgakycxqqegakcfncwsircWsicpisyycyojakcfycywschq.spcwsiczqpdcfapcnws
yqmnciq scqmcwsicwfgicnqyyspcmiqhcygpscnqcygpsr

S.sidchqiagakcGcxfdcqacnwscmxqqicgacnwscmiqanc fixqjicofnbwgakcwsi
pqqircNwsczxgapcofyc jxxspcpqoacnqcognwgacfacgabwcqmcnwscyfywcyqcnwfncG
bqjxpcaqnczscyssarcOwsacywscbfhscqjncqacnwscpqqiyns chdcwsfincxsf sprcG
ifacnqcnwscwfxx,cysgvspchdczqqeycfapcmqxxqospcwsircGces ncwsicziqoa
mgkjiscfxofdycgachdcsdscfap,cowsacoscbfhscasficnwsc qgancfncowgbwcqji
ofdycpg.siksp,cGcljgbesaspchdc fbscfapc fyyspcwsircNwgycwf  sasp
hqiagakcfmnsichqiagakrcGcwfpcas.sicy qesacnqcwsi,cstbs ncmqicfcmso
bfyjfxcoqipy,cfapcdsncwsicafhscofycxgescfcyjhhqaycnqcfxxchdcmqqxgyw
zxqqpr

Wsicghfkscfbbqh fagspchscs.sacgac xfbsycnwschqyncwqyngxscnqciqhfabsrcQa
Yfnjipfdcs.sagakycowsachdcfjancosanchfiesngakcGcwfpcnqckqcnqcbfiidcyqhs
qmcnwsc fibsxyrcOscofxespcnwiqjkwcnwscmxfigakcynissny,cuqynxspczd
pijaesachsacfapczfikfgagakcoqhsa,cfhgpcnwscbjiysycqmcxfzqjisiy,cnws
ywigxxcxgnfagsycqmcywq -zqdycowqcynqqpcqackjfipczdcnwsczfiisxycqmc gky’
bwssey,cnwscafyfxcbwfangakcqmcynissn-ygaksiy,cowqcyfakcfc_bqhs-fxx-dqj_
fzqjncQ’Pqaq.facIqyyf,cqicfczfxxfpcfzqjncnwscniqjzxsycgacqjicafng.s
xfaprcNwsyscaqgysycbqa.sikspcgacfcygakxscysayfngqacqmcxgmscmqichs:cG
ghfkgaspcnwfncGczqischdcbwfxgbscyfmsxdcnwiqjkwcfcnwiqakcqmcmqsyrcWsi
afhscy ifakcnqchdcxg ycfnchqhsanycgacynifaksc ifdsiycfapc ifgysycowgbw
GchdysxmcpgpcaqncjapsiynfaprcHdcsdsycosiscqmnsacmjxxcqmcnsfiyc(Gcbqjxp
aqncnsxxcowd)cfapcfncnghsycfcmxqqpcmiqhchdcwsfincysshspcnqc qjicgnysxm
qjncganqchdczqyqhrcGcnwqjkwncxgnnxscqmcnwscmjnjisrcGcpgpcaqnceaqo
owsnwsicGcoqjxpcs.sicy sfecnqcwsicqicaqncqi,cgmcGcy qescnqcwsi,cwqocG
bqjxpcnsxxcwsicqmchdcbqamjyspcfpqifngqarcZjnchdczqpdcofycxgescfcwfi 
fapcwsicoqipycfapcksynjisycosiscxgescmgaksiycijaagakcj qacnwscogisyr

Qascs.sagakcGcosancganqcnwsczfbecpifogak-iqqhcgacowgbwcnwsc igsyncwfp
pgsprcGncofycfcpfiecifgadcs.sagakcfapcnwsiscofycaqcyqjapcgacnwscwqjysr
Nwiqjkwcqascqmcnwscziqesac fasycGcwsfipcnwscifgacgh gakscj qacnws
sfinw,cnwscmgascgabsyyfancasspxsycqmcofnsic xfdgakcgacnwscyqppsaczspyr
Yqhscpgynfancxfh cqicxgkwnspcogapqockxsfhspczsxqochsrcGcofycnwfaemjx
nwfncGcbqjxpcysscyqcxgnnxsrcFxxchdcysaysycysshspcnqcpsygiscnqc.sgx
nwshysx.sycfap,cmssxgakcnwfncGcofycfzqjncnqcyxg cmiqhcnwsh,cGc isyysp
nwsc fxhycqmchdcwfapycnqksnwsicjangxcnwsdcnishzxsp,chjihjigak:c_“Q
xq.s!cQcxq.s!”_chfadcnghsyr

Fncxfyncywscy qescnqchsrcOwsacywscfppisyyspcnwscmgiyncoqipycnqchscGcofy
yqcbqamjyspcnwfncGcpgpcaqnceaqocowfncnqcfayosircYwscfyespchscofycG
kqgakcnqc_Fifzd_rcGcmqikqncowsnwsicGcfayosispcdsycqicaqrcGncoqjxpczscf
y xsapgpczfvffi,cywscyfgp;cywscoqjxpcxq.scnqckqr

“Fapcowdcbfa’ncdqj?”cGcfyespr

Owgxscywscy qescywscnjiaspcfcygx.siczifbsxsnciqjapcfapciqjapcwsicoigynr
Ywscbqjxpcaqnckq,cywscyfgp,czsbfjyscnwsiscoqjxpczscfcisnisfncnwfncosse
gacwsicbqa.sanrcWsicziqnwsicfapcnoqcqnwsiczqdycosiscmgkwngakcmqicnwsgi
bf ycfapcGcofycfxqascfncnwscifgxgakyrcYwscwsxpcqascqmcnwscy gesy,
zqogakcwsicwsfpcnqofipychsrcNwscxgkwncmiqhcnwscxfh cq  qygnscqjicpqqi
bfjkwncnwscowgnscbji.scqmcwsicasbe,cxgncj cwsicwfgicnwfncisynspcnwsis
fap,cmfxxgak,cxgncj cnwscwfapcj qacnwscifgxgakrcGncmsxxcq.sicqascygps
qmcwsicpisyycfapcbfjkwncnwscowgnsczqipsicqmcfc snngbqfn,cujync.gygzxs
fycywscynqqpcfncsfysr

“Gn’ycosxxcmqicdqj,”cywscyfgpr

“GmcGckq,”cGcyfgp,c“Gcogxxczigakcdqjcyqhsnwgakr”

Owfncgaajhsifzxscmqxxgsycxfgpcofynschdcofegakcfapcyxss gakcnwqjkwny
fmnsicnwfncs.sagak!cGcogywspcnqcfaagwgxfnscnwscnspgqjycgansi.sagak
pfdyrcGcbwfmspcfkfgayncnwscoqiecqmcybwqqxrcFncagkwncgachdczspiqqhcfap
zdcpfdcgacnwscbxfyyiqqhcwsicghfkscbfhsczsnossachscfapcnwsc fkscGcyniq.s
nqcisfprcNwscydxxfzxsycqmcnwscoqipc_Fifzd_cosiscbfxxspcnqchscnwiqjkw
nwscygxsabscgacowgbwchdcyqjxcxjtjigfnspcfapcbfyncfacSfynsiacsabwfanhsan
q.sichsrcGcfyespcmqicxsf.scnqckqcnqcnwsczfvfficqacYfnjipfdcagkwnrcHd
fjancofycyji igyspcfapcwq spcgncofycaqncyqhscMisshfyqacfmmfgircG
fayosispcmsocljsyngqaycgacbxfyyrcGcofnbwspchdchfynsi’ycmfbsc fyycmiqh
fhgfzgxgndcnqcynsiaasyy;cwscwq spcGcofycaqnczskgaagakcnqcgpxsrcGcbqjxp
aqncbfxxchdcofapsigakcnwqjkwnycnqksnwsircGcwfpcwfipxdcfadc fngsabscognw
nwscysigqjycoqiecqmcxgmscowgbw,caqocnwfncgncynqqpczsnossachscfapchd
psygis,cysshspcnqchscbwgxp’yc xfd,cjkxdchqaqnqaqjycbwgxp’yc xfdr

QacYfnjipfdchqiagakcGcishgapspchdcjabxscnwfncGcogywspcnqckqcnqcnws
zfvfficgacnwscs.sagakrcWscofycmjyygakcfncnwscwfxxynfap,cxqqegakcmqicnws
wfn-zijyw,cfapcfayosispchscbjinxd:

“Dsy,czqd,cGceaqor”

FycwscofycgacnwscwfxxcGcbqjxpcaqnckqcganqcnwscmiqanc fixqjicfapcxgscfn
nwscogapqorcGcxsmncnwscwqjyscgaczfpcwjhqjicfapcofxespcyxqoxdcnqofipy
nwscybwqqxrcNwscfgicofyc gngxsyyxdcifocfapcfxisfpdchdcwsfinchgykf.schsr

OwsacGcbfhscwqhscnqcpgaasichdcjabxscwfpcaqncdsnczssacwqhsrcYngxxcgncofy
sfixdrcGcyfncynfigakcfncnwscbxqbecmqicyqhscnghscfap,cowsacgnycngbegak
zskfacnqcgiignfnschs,cGcxsmncnwsciqqhrcGchqjanspcnwscynfgibfyscfap
kfgaspcnwscj  sic fincqmcnwscwqjysrcNwscwgkwcbqxpcsh ndckxqqhdciqqhy
xgzsifnspchscfapcGcosancmiqhciqqhcnqciqqhcygakgakrcMiqhcnwscmiqan
ogapqocGcyfochdcbqh fagqayc xfdgakczsxqocgacnwscynissnrcNwsgicbigsy
isfbwspchscosfesaspcfapcgapgyngabncfap,cxsfagakchdcmqiswsfpcfkfgayncnws
bqqxckxfyy,cGcxqqespcq.sicfncnwscpfiecwqjyscowsiscywscxg.sprcGchfdcwf.s
ynqqpcnwsiscmqicfacwqji,cyssgakcaqnwgakczjncnwscziqoa-bxfpcmgkjiscbfyn
zdchdcghfkgafngqa,cnqjbwspcpgybissnxdczdcnwscxfh xgkwncfncnwscbji.sp
asbe,cfncnwscwfapcj qacnwscifgxgakycfapcfncnwsczqipsiczsxqocnwscpisyyr

OwsacGcbfhscpqoaynfgiycfkfgacGcmqjapcHiycHsibsicygnngakcfncnwscmgisr
Ywscofycfacqxpckfiijxqjycoqhfa,cfc foaziqesi’ycogpqo,cowqcbqxxsbnsp
jyspcynfh ycmqicyqhsc gqjyc ji qysrcGcwfpcnqcsapjiscnwsckqyyg cqmcnws
nsf-nfzxsrcNwschsfxcofyc iqxqakspczsdqapcfacwqjicfapcyngxxchdcjabxscpgp
aqncbqhsrcHiycHsibsicynqqpcj cnqckq:cywscofycyqiidcywscbqjxpa’ncofgn
fadcxqaksi,czjncgncofycfmnsicsgkwncq’bxqbecfapcywscpgpcaqncxgescnqczs
qjncxfnscfycnwscagkwncfgicofyczfpcmqicwsircOwsacywscwfpckqascGczskfacnq
ofxecj cfapcpqoacnwsciqqh,cbxsabwgakchdcmgynyrcHdcfjancyfgp:

“G’hcfmifgpcdqjchfdc jncqmmcdqjiczfvfficmqicnwgycagkwncqmcQjicXqipr”

Fncagascq’bxqbecGcwsfipchdcjabxs’ycxfnbwesdcgacnwscwfxxpqqircGcwsfip
wghcnfxegakcnqcwghysxmcfapcwsfipcnwscwfxxynfapciqbegakcowsacgncwfp
isbsg.spcnwscosgkwncqmcwgycq.sibqfnrcGcbqjxpcgansi isncnwsyscygkayr
OwsacwscofychgpofdcnwiqjkwcwgycpgaasicGcfyespcwghcnqckg.schscnwschqasd
nqckqcnqcnwsczfvffircWscwfpcmqikqnnsar

“Nwsc sq xscfiscgaczspcfapcfmnsicnwsgicmgiyncyxss caqo,”cwscyfgpr

GcpgpcaqncyhgxsrcHdcfjancyfgpcnqcwghcsasiksngbfxxd:

“Bfa’ncdqjckg.scwghcnwschqasdcfapcxsncwghckq?cDqj’.sces ncwghcxfns
saqjkwcfycgncgyr”

Hdcjabxscyfgpcwscofyc.sidcyqiidcwscwfpcmqikqnnsarcWscyfgpcwsczsxgs.sp
gacnwscqxpcyfdgak:c“Fxxcoqiecfapcaqc xfdchfesycUfbecfcpjxxczqdr”cWs
fyespchscowsiscGcofyckqgakcfap,cowsacGcwfpcnqxpcwghcfcysbqapcnghscws
fyespchscpgpcGceaqoc_NwscFifz’ycMfisosxxcnqcwgycYnssp_rcOwsacGcxsmncnws
egnbwsacwscofycfzqjncnqcisbgnscnwscq sagakcxgasycqmcnwsc gsbscnqchd
fjanr

GcwsxpcfcmxqigacngkwnxdcgachdcwfapcfycGcyniqpscpqoacZjbegakwfhcYnissn
nqofipycnwscynfngqarcNwscygkwncqmcnwscynissnycnwiqakspcognwczjdsiycfap
kxfigakcognwckfycisbfxxspcnqchscnwsc ji qyscqmchdcuqjiasdrcGcnqqechd
ysfncgacfcnwgip-bxfyycbfiigfkscqmcfcpsysinspcnifgarcFmnsicfa
ganqxsifzxscpsxfdcnwscnifgachq.spcqjncqmcnwscynfngqacyxqoxdrcGncbis n
qaofipcfhqakcijgaqjycwqjysycfapcq.sicnwscnogaexgakcig.sircFncOsynxfap
IqocYnfngqacfcbiqopcqmc sq xsc isyyspcnqcnwscbfiigfkscpqqiy;czjncnws
 qinsiychq.spcnwshczfbe,cyfdgakcnwfncgncofycfcy sbgfxcnifgacmqicnws
zfvffircGcishfgaspcfxqascgacnwsczfiscbfiigfksrcGacfcmsochgajnsycnws
nifgacpisocj czsygpscfacgh iq.gyspcoqqpsac xfnmqihrcGc fyyspcqjncqacnq
nwsciqfpcfapcyfoczdcnwscxgkwnspcpgfxcqmcfcbxqbecnwfncgncofycnsachgajnsy
nqcnsarcGacmiqancqmchscofycfcxfiksczjgxpgakcowgbwcpgy xfdspcnwschfkgbfx
afhsr

Gcbqjxpcaqncmgapcfadcygt saadcsanifabscfap,cmsfigakcnwfncnwsczfvffi
oqjxpczscbxqysp,cGc fyyspcgacljgbexdcnwiqjkwcfcnjiayngxs,cwfapgakcf
ywgxxgakcnqcfcosfid-xqqegakchfarcGcmqjapchdysxmcgacfczgkcwfxxckgipxsp
fncwfxmcgnycwsgkwnczdcfckfxxsidrcAsfixdcfxxcnwscynfxxycosiscbxqyspcfap
nwsckisfnsic fincqmcnwscwfxxcofycgacpfieasyyrcGcisbqkagyspcfcygxsabs
xgescnwfncowgbwc si.fpsycfcbwjibwcfmnsicfcysi.gbsrcGcofxespcganqcnws
bsaniscqmcnwsczfvfficnghgpxdrcFcmsoc sq xscosisckfnwsispcfzqjncnws
ynfxxycowgbwcosiscyngxxcq sarcZsmqiscfcbjinfga,cq.sicowgbwcnwscoqipy
_BfmécBwfanfan_cosiscoignnsacgacbqxqjispcxfh y,cnoqchsacosiscbqjangak
hqasdcqacfcyfx.sircGcxgynsaspcnqcnwscmfxxcqmcnwscbqgayr

IshshzsigakcognwcpgmmgbjxndcowdcGcwfpcbqhscGcosancq.sicnqcqascqmcnws
ynfxxycfapcstfhgaspc qibsxfgac.fysycfapcmxqosispcnsf-ysnyrcFncnwscpqqi
qmcnwscynfxxcfcdqjakcxfpdcofycnfxegakcfapcxfjkwgakcognwcnoqcdqjak
ksanxshsarcGcishfiespcnwsgicSakxgywcfbbsanycfapcxgynsaspc.fkjsxdcnq
nwsgicbqa.siyfngqar

“Q,cGcas.sicyfgpcyjbwcfcnwgak!”

“Q,czjncdqjcpgp!”

“Q,czjncGcpgpa’n!”

“Pgpa’ncywscyfdcnwfn?”

“DsyrcGcwsfipcwsir”

“Q,cnwsis’ycfcrrrcmgz!”

Qzysi.gakchscnwscdqjakcxfpdcbfhscq.sicfapcfyespchscpgpcGcogywcnqczjd
fadnwgakrcNwscnqascqmcwsic.qgbscofycaqncsabqjifkgak;cywscysshspcnqcwf.s
y qesacnqchscqjncqmcfcysayscqmcpjndrcGcxqqespcwjhzxdcfncnwsckisfncufiy
nwfncynqqpcxgescsfynsiackjfipycfncsgnwsicygpscqmcnwscpfiecsanifabscnq
nwscynfxxcfapchjihjisp:

“Aq,cnwfaecdqjr”

Nwscdqjakcxfpdcbwfakspcnwsc qygngqacqmcqascqmcnwsc.fysycfapcosanczfbe
nqcnwscnoqcdqjakchsarcNwsdczskfacnqcnfxecqmcnwscyfhscyjzusbnrcQabscqi
nogbscnwscdqjakcxfpdckxfabspcfnchscq.sicwsicywqjxpsir

Gcxgaksispczsmqiscwsicynfxx,cnwqjkwcGceasochdcynfdcofycjysxsyy,cnqchfes
hdcgansisyncgacwsicofisycysshcnwschqiscisfxrcNwsacGcnjiaspcfofdcyxqoxd
fapcofxespcpqoacnwschgppxscqmcnwsczfvffircGcfxxqospcnwscnoqc saagsycnq
mfxxcfkfgayncnwscygt sabscgachdc qbesnrcGcwsfipcfc.qgbscbfxxcmiqhcqas
sapcqmcnwsckfxxsidcnwfncnwscxgkwncofycqjnrcNwscj  sic fincqmcnwscwfxx
ofycaqocbqh xsnsxdcpfier

Kfvgakcj cganqcnwscpfieasyycGcyfochdysxmcfycfcbisfnjiscpig.sacfap
psigpspczdc.fagnd;cfapchdcsdsyczjiaspcognwcfakjgywcfapcfaksir



S.SXGAS

Ywscyfncfncnwscogapqocofnbwgakcnwscs.sagakcga.fpscnwscf.sajsrcWsicwsfp
ofycxsfaspcfkfgayncnwscogapqocbjinfgaycfapcgacwsicaqynigxycofycnws
qpqjicqmcpjyndcbisnqaasrcYwscofycngispr

Msoc sq xsc fyysprcNwschfacqjncqmcnwscxfyncwqjysc fyyspcqacwgycofd
wqhs;cywscwsfipcwgycmqqnyns ycbxfbegakcfxqakcnwscbqabisnsc f.shsancfap
fmnsiofipycbijabwgakcqacnwscbgapsic fnwczsmqiscnwscasocispcwqjysyrcQas
nghscnwsiscjyspcnqczscfcmgsxpcnwsiscgacowgbwcnwsdcjyspcnqc xfdcs.sid
s.sagakcognwcqnwsic sq xs’ycbwgxpisarcNwsacfchfacmiqhcZsxmfynczqjkwn
nwscmgsxpcfapczjgxncwqjysycgacgn—aqncxgescnwsgicxgnnxscziqoacwqjysyczjn
zigkwnczigbecwqjysycognwcywgagakciqqmyrcNwscbwgxpisacqmcnwscf.sajscjysp
nqc xfdcnqksnwsicgacnwfncmgsxp—nwscPs.gasy,cnwscOfnsiy,cnwscPjaay,
xgnnxscEsqkwcnwscbig  xs,cywscfapcwsicziqnwsiycfapcygynsiyrcSiasyn,
wqos.si,cas.sic xfdsp:cwscofycnqqckiqoacj rcWsicmfnwsicjyspcqmnsacnq
wjancnwshcgacqjncqmcnwscmgsxpcognwcwgyczxfbenwqiacyngbe;czjncjyjfxxd
xgnnxscEsqkwcjyspcnqcess c_agt_cfapcbfxxcqjncowsacwscyfocwsicmfnwsi
bqhgakrcYngxxcnwsdcysshspcnqcwf.sczssacifnwsicwf  dcnwsarcWsicmfnwsi
ofycaqncyqczfpcnwsa;cfapczsygpsy,cwsichqnwsicofycfxg.srcNwfncofycfcxqak
nghscfkq;cywscfapcwsicziqnwsiycfapcygynsiycosiscfxxckiqoacj ;cwsi
hqnwsicofycpsfprcNgvvgscPjaacofycpsfp,cnqq,cfapcnwscOfnsiycwfpckqas
zfbecnqcSakxfaprcS.sidnwgakcbwfaksyrcAqocywscofyckqgakcnqckqcfofdcxges
nwscqnwsiy,cnqcxsf.scwsicwqhsr

Wqhs!cYwscxqqespciqjapcnwsciqqh,cis.gsogakcfxxcgnycmfhgxgficqzusbny
owgbwcywscwfpcpjynspcqabscfcossecmqicyqchfadcdsfiy,coqapsigakcowsiscqa
sfinwcfxxcnwscpjyncbfhscmiqhrc siwf ycywscoqjxpcas.sicysscfkfgacnwqys
mfhgxgficqzusbnycmiqhcowgbwcywscwfpcas.sicpisfhspcqmczsgakcpg.gpsprcFap
dsncpjigakcfxxcnwqyscdsfiycywscwfpcas.sicmqjapcqjncnwscafhscqmcnws
 igsyncowqyscdsxxqogakc wqnqkif wcwjakcqacnwscofxxcfzq.scnwscziqesa
wfihqagjhczsygpscnwscbqxqjispc igancqmcnwsc iqhgysychfpscnqcZxsyysp
HfikfisncHfidcFxfbqljsrcWscwfpczssacfcybwqqxcmigsapcqmcwsicmfnwsir
Owsas.sicwscywqospcnwsc wqnqkif wcnqcfc.gygnqicwsicmfnwsicjyspcnqc fyy
gncognwcfcbfyjfxcoqip:

“WscgycgacHsxzqjiascaqor”

Ywscwfpcbqaysanspcnqckqcfofd,cnqcxsf.scwsicwqhsrcOfycnwfncogys?cYws
nigspcnqcosgkwcsfbwcygpscqmcnwscljsyngqarcGacwsicwqhscfadofdcywscwfp
ywsxnsicfapcmqqp;cywscwfpcnwqyscowqhcywscwfpceaqoacfxxcwsicxgmscfzqjn
wsircQmcbqjiyscywscwfpcnqcoqiecwfip,czqnwcgacnwscwqjyscfapcfnczjygasyyr
OwfncoqjxpcnwsdcyfdcqmcwsicgacnwscYnqisycowsacnwsdcmqjapcqjncnwfncyws
wfpcijacfofdcognwcfcmsxxqo?cYfdcywscofycfcmqqx,c siwf y;cfapcwsic xfbs
oqjxpczscmgxxspcj czdcfp.singyshsanrcHgyycKf.facoqjxpczsckxfprcYwscwfp
fxofdycwfpcfacspkscqacwsi,csy sbgfxxdcowsas.sicnwsiscosisc sq xs
xgynsagakr

“HgyycWgxx,cpqa’ncdqjcysscnwsyscxfpgsycfiscofgngak?”

“Xqqecxg.sxd,cHgyycWgxx,c xsfysr”

Ywscoqjxpcaqncbidchfadcnsfiycfncxsf.gakcnwscYnqisyr

Zjncgacwsicasocwqhs,cgacfcpgynfancjaeaqoacbqjanid,cgncoqjxpcaqnczscxges
nwfnrcNwsacywscoqjxpczschfiigsp—yws,cS.sxgasrc sq xscoqjxpcnisfncwsi
ognwcisy sbncnwsarcYwscoqjxpcaqnczscnisfnspcfycwsichqnwsicwfpczssar
S.sacaqo,cnwqjkwcywscofycq.sicagasnssa,cywscyqhsnghsycmsxncwsiysxmcga
pfaksicqmcwsicmfnwsi’yc.gqxsabsrcYwsceasocgncofycnwfncnwfncwfpckg.sa
wsicnwsc fx gnfngqayrcOwsacnwsdcosisckiqogakcj cwscwfpcas.sickqascmqi
wsicxgescwscjyspcnqckqcmqicWfiidcfapcSiasyn,czsbfjyscywscofycfckgix;
zjncxfnnsixdcwscwfpczskjacnqcnwisfnsacwsicfapcyfdcowfncwscoqjxpcpqcnq
wsicqaxdcmqicwsicpsfpchqnwsi’ycyfesrcFapcaqocywscwfpcaqzqpdcnqc iqnsbn
wsircSiasyncofycpsfpcfapcWfiid,cowqcofycgacnwscbwjibwcpsbqifngak
zjygasyy,cofycasfixdcfxofdycpqoacyqhsowsiscgacnwscbqjanidrcZsygpsy,cnws
ga.figfzxscyljfzzxscmqichqasdcqacYfnjipfdcagkwnycwfpczskjacnqcosfidcwsi
jay sfefzxdrcYwscfxofdyckf.scwsicsangiscofksy—ys.sacywgxxgaky—fapcWfiid
fxofdycysancj cowfncwscbqjxpczjncnwscniqjzxscofycnqcksncfadchqasdcmiqh
wsicmfnwsircWscyfgpcywscjyspcnqcyljfapsicnwschqasd,cnwfncywscwfpcaq
wsfp,cnwfncwscofya’nckqgakcnqckg.scwsicwgycwfip-sfiaspchqasdcnqcnwiqo
fzqjncnwscynissny,cfapchjbwchqis,cmqicwscofycjyjfxxdcmfgixdczfpcqmcf
YfnjipfdcagkwnrcGacnwscsapcwscoqjxpckg.scwsicnwschqasdcfapcfyecwsicwfp
ywscfadcgansangqacqmczjdgakcYjapfd’ycpgaasircNwsacywscwfpcnqcijywcqjn
fycljgbexdcfycywscbqjxpcfapcpqcwsichfiesngak,cwqxpgakcwsiczxfbecxsfnwsi
 jiyscngkwnxdcgacwsicwfapcfycywscsxzqospcwsicofdcnwiqjkwcnwscbiqopycfap
isnjiagakcwqhscxfnscjapsicwsicxqfpcqmc iq.gygqayrcYwscwfpcwfipcoqiecnq
ess cnwscwqjyscnqksnwsicfapcnqcysscnwfncnwscnoqcdqjakcbwgxpisacowqcwfp
zssacxsmncnqcwsicbwfikscosancnqcybwqqxciskjxfixdcfapckqncnwsgichsfxy
iskjxfixdrcGncofycwfipcoqie—fcwfipcxgms—zjncaqocnwfncywscofycfzqjncnq
xsf.scgncywscpgpcaqncmgapcgncfcowqxxdcjapsygifzxscxgmsr

Ywscofycfzqjncnqcst xqiscfaqnwsicxgmscognwcMifaercMifaecofyc.sidcegap,
hfaxd,cq sa-wsfinsprcYwscofycnqckqcfofdcognwcwghczdcnwscagkwn-zqfncnq
zscwgycogmscfapcnqcxg.scognwcwghcgacZjsaqycFdisycowsiscwscwfpcfcwqhs
ofgngakcmqicwsircWqocosxxcywscishshzsispcnwscmgiyncnghscywscwfpcyssa
wgh;cwscofycxqpkgakcgacfcwqjyscqacnwschfgaciqfpcowsiscywscjyspcnq
.gygnrcGncysshspcfcmsocosseycfkqrcWscofycynfapgakcfncnwsckfns,cwgy
 sfespcbf c jywspczfbecqacwgycwsfpcfapcwgycwfgicnjhzxspcmqiofipcq.sicf
mfbscqmcziqavsrcNwsacnwsdcwfpcbqhscnqceaqocsfbwcqnwsircWscjyspcnqchssn
wsicqjnygpscnwscYnqisycs.sidcs.sagakcfapcysscwsicwqhsrcWscnqqecwsicnq
yssc_NwscZqwshgfacKgix_cfapcywscmsxncsxfnspcfycywscyfncgacfa
jafbbjynqhspc fincqmcnwscnwsfniscognwcwghrcWscofycfomjxxdcmqapcqmchjygb
fapcyfakcfcxgnnxsrc sq xsceasocnwfncnwsdcosiscbqjingakcfap,cowsacws
yfakcfzqjncnwscxfyycnwfncxq.sycfcyfgxqi,cywscfxofdycmsxnc xsfyfanxd
bqamjysprcWscjyspcnqcbfxxcwsic q  saycqjncqmcmjarcMgiyncqmcfxxcgncwfp
zssacfacstbgnshsancmqicwsicnqcwf.scfcmsxxqocfapcnwsacywscwfpczskjacnq
xgescwghrcWscwfpcnfxsycqmcpgynfancbqjanigsyrcWscwfpcynfinspcfycfcpsbe
zqdcfncfc qjapcfchqanwcqacfcywg cqmcnwscFxxfacXgasckqgakcqjncnqcBfafpfr
Wscnqxpcwsicnwscafhsycqmcnwscywg ycwscwfpczssacqacfapcnwscafhsycqmcnws
pgmmsisancysi.gbsyrcWscwfpcyfgxspcnwiqjkwcnwscYnifgnycqmcHfksxxfacfap
wscnqxpcwsicynqigsycqmcnwscnsiigzxsc fnfkqagfayrcWscwfpcmfxxsacqacwgy
mssncgacZjsaqycFdisy,cwscyfgp,cfapcwfpcbqhscq.sicnqcnwscqxpcbqjanid
ujyncmqicfcwqxgpfdrcQmcbqjiys,cwsicmfnwsicwfpcmqjapcqjncnwscfmmfgicfap
wfpcmqizgppsacwsicnqcwf.scfadnwgakcnqcyfdcnqcwghr

“Gceaqocnwsyscyfgxqicbwf y,”cwscyfgpr

QascpfdcwscwfpcljfiisxxspcognwcMifaecfapcfmnsicnwfncywscwfpcnqchssncwsi
xq.sicysbisnxdr

Nwscs.sagakcpss saspcgacnwscf.sajsrcNwscowgnscqmcnoqcxsnnsiycgacwsicxf 
kisocgapgyngabnrcQascofycnqcWfiid;cnwscqnwsicofycnqcwsicmfnwsircSiasyn
wfpczssacwsicmf.qjignsczjncywscxgespcWfiidcnqqrcWsicmfnwsicofyczsbqhgak
qxpcxfnsxd,cywscaqngbsp;cwscoqjxpchgyycwsircYqhsnghsycwscbqjxpczsc.sid
agbsrcAqncxqakczsmqis,cowsacywscwfpczssacxfgpcj cmqicfcpfd,cwscwfpcisfp
wsicqjncfckwqyncynqidcfapchfpscnqfyncmqicwsicfncnwscmgisrcFaqnwsicpfd,
owsacnwsgichqnwsicofycfxg.s,cnwsdcwfpcfxxckqascmqicfc gbagbcnqcnwscWgxx
qmcWqonwrcYwscishshzsispcwsicmfnwsic jnngakcqacwsichqnwsi’yczqaasncnq
hfescnwscbwgxpisacxfjkwr

Wsicnghscofycijaagakcqjnczjncywscbqangajspcnqcygnczdcnwscogapqo,
xsfagakcwsicwsfpcfkfgayncnwscogapqocbjinfga,cgawfxgakcnwscqpqjicqm
pjyndcbisnqaasrcPqoacmficgacnwscf.sajscywscbqjxpcwsficfcynissncqikfa
 xfdgakrcYwsceasocnwscfgircYnifakscnwfncgncywqjxpcbqhscnwfnc.sidcagkwn
nqcishgapcwsicqmcnwsc iqhgyscnqcwsichqnwsi,cwsic iqhgyscnqcess cnws
wqhscnqksnwsicfycxqakcfycywscbqjxprcYwscishshzsispcnwscxfyncagkwncqm
wsichqnwsi’ycgxxasyy;cywscofycfkfgacgacnwscbxqyscpfieciqqhcfncnwscqnwsi
ygpscqmcnwscwfxxcfapcqjnygpscywscwsfipcfchsxfabwqxdcfgicqmcGnfxdrcNws
qikfa- xfdsicwfpczssacqipsispcnqckqcfofdcfapckg.sacygt sabsrcYws
ishshzsispcwsicmfnwsicynijnngakczfbecganqcnwscygbeiqqhcyfdgak:

“PfhaspcGnfxgfay!cbqhgakcq.sicwsis!”

Fycywschjyspcnwsc gngmjxc.gygqacqmcwsichqnwsi’ycxgmscxfgpcgnycy sxxcqa
nwsc.sidcljgbecqmcwsiczsgak—nwfncxgmscqmcbqhhqa xfbscyfbigmgbsycbxqygak
gacmgafxcbifvgasyyrcYwscnishzxspcfycywscwsfipcfkfgacwsichqnwsi’yc.qgbs
yfdgakcbqaynfanxdcognwcmqqxgywcgaygynsabs:

“Psis.fjacYsifja!cPsis.fjacYsifja!”

Ywscynqqpcj cgacfcyjppsacgh jxyscqmcnsiiqircSybf s!cYwschjyncsybf s!
Mifaecoqjxpcyf.scwsircWscoqjxpckg.scwsicxgms,c siwf ycxq.s,cnqqrcZjn
ywscofanspcnqcxg.srcOwdcywqjxpcywsczscjawf  d?cYwscwfpcfcigkwncnq
wf  gasyyrcMifaecoqjxpcnfescwsicgacwgycfihy,cmqxpcwsicgacwgycfihyrcWs
oqjxpcyf.scwsir



YwscynqqpcfhqakcnwscyofdgakcbiqopcgacnwscynfngqacfncnwscAqinwcOfxxrcWs
wsxpcwsicwfapcfapcywsceasocnwfncwscofycy sfegakcnqcwsi,cyfdgak
yqhsnwgakcfzqjncnwsc fyyfkscq.sicfapcq.sicfkfgarcNwscynfngqacofycmjxx
qmcyqxpgsiycognwcziqoaczfkkfksyrcNwiqjkwcnwscogpscpqqiycqmcnwscywspy
ywscbfjkwncfckxgh yscqmcnwsczxfbechfyycqmcnwsczqfn,cxdgakcgaczsygpscnws
ljfdcofxx,cognwcgxxjhgaspc qinwqxsyrcYwscfayosispcaqnwgakrcYwscmsxncwsi
bwssec fxscfapcbqxpcfap,cqjncqmcfchfvscqmcpgynisyy,cywsc ifdspcnqcKqp
nqcpgisbncwsi,cnqcywqocwsicowfncofycwsicpjndrcNwsczqfnczxsocfcxqak
hqjiamjxcowgynxscganqcnwschgynrcGmcywscosan,cnqhqiiqocywscoqjxpczscqa
nwscysfcognwcMifae,cynsfhgakcnqofipycZjsaqycFdisyrcNwsgic fyyfkscwfp
zssaczqqesprcBqjxpcywscyngxxcpifoczfbecfmnsicfxxcwscwfpcpqascmqicwsi?
Wsicpgynisyycfoqescfcafjysfcgacwsiczqpdcfapcywsces nchq.gakcwsicxg ycga
ygxsancmsi.sanc ifdsir

Fczsxxcbxfakspcj qacwsicwsfinrcYwscmsxncwghcysgvscwsicwfap:

“Bqhs!”

FxxcnwscysfycqmcnwscoqixpcnjhzxspcfzqjncwsicwsfinrcWscofycpifogakcwsi
ganqcnwsh:cwscoqjxpcpiqoacwsircYwsckig  spcognwczqnwcwfapycfncnwscgiqa
ifgxgakr

“Bqhs!”

Aq!cAq!cAq!cGncofycgh qyygzxsrcWsicwfapycbxjnbwspcnwscgiqacgacmisavdr
Fhgpcnwscysfycywscysancfcbidcqmcfakjgyw!

“S.sxgas!cS..d!”

WscijywspczsdqapcnwsczfiigsicfapcbfxxspcnqcwsicnqcmqxxqorcWscofy
ywqjnspcfncnqckqcqaczjncwscyngxxcbfxxspcnqcwsircYwscysncwsicowgnscmfbs
nqcwgh,c fyyg.s,cxgescfcwsx xsyycfaghfxrcWsicsdsyckf.scwghcaqcygkacqm
xq.scqicmfisosxxcqicisbqkagngqar



FMNSIcNWScIFBS

NwscbfiycbfhscybjppgakcgacnqofipycPjzxga,cijaagakcs.saxdcxgesc sxxsny
gacnwsckiqq.scqmcnwscAffycIqfprcFncnwscbisyncqmcnwscwgxxcfncGabwgbqis
ygkwnyssiycwfpckfnwsispcgacbxjh ycnqcofnbwcnwscbfiycbfissigakcwqhsofip
fapcnwiqjkwcnwgycbwfaasxcqmc q.sindcfapcgafbngqacnwscBqangasancy spcgny
osfxnwcfapcgapjynidrcAqocfapcfkfgacnwscbxjh ycqmc sq xscifgyspcnws
bwssicqmcnwsckifnsmjxxdcq  isyysprcNwsgicydh fnwd,cwqos.si,cofycmqicnws
zxjscbfiy—nwscbfiycqmcnwsgicmigsapy,cnwscMisabwr

NwscMisabw,chqisq.si,cosisc.ginjfxc.gbnqiyrcNwsgicnsfhcwfpcmgagywsp
yqxgpxd;cnwsdcwfpczssac xfbspcysbqapcfapcnwgipcfapcnwscpig.sicqmcnws
ogaagakcKsihfacbficofycis qinspcfcZsxkgfarcSfbwczxjscbfi,cnwsismqis,
isbsg.spcfcpqjzxschsfyjiscqmcosxbqhscfycgncnq  spcnwscbisyncqmcnwscwgxx
fapcsfbwcbwssicqmcosxbqhscofycfbeaqoxspkspcognwcyhgxsycfapcaqpyczd
nwqyscgacnwscbfircGacqascqmcnwsyscnighxdczjgxncbfiycofycfc findcqmcmqji
dqjakchsacowqyscy gignycysshspcnqczscfnc isysancosxxcfzq.scnwscxs.sxcqm
yjbbsyymjxcKfxxgbgyh:cgacmfbn,cnwsyscmqjicdqjakchsacosiscfxhqyn
wgxfigqjyrcNwsdcosiscBwfixsycYékqjga,cnwscqoasicqmcnwscbfi;cFapié
Ig.gèis,cfcdqjakcsxsbnigbgfacqmcBfafpgfaczginw;cfcwjkscWjakfigfacafhsp
.gxxqafcfapcfcasfnxdckiqqhspcdqjakchfacafhspcPqdxsrcYékqjgacofycgackqqp
wjhqjiczsbfjyscwscwfpcjast sbnspxdcisbsg.spcyqhscqipsiycgacfp.fabsc(ws
ofycfzqjncnqcynfincfchqnqicsynfzxgywhsancgac figy)cfapcIg.gèiscofycga
kqqpcwjhqjiczsbfjyscwscofycnqczscf  qganspchfafksicqmcnws
synfzxgywhsan;cnwsyscnoqcdqjakchsac(owqcosiscbqjygay)cosiscfxyqcgackqqp
wjhqjiczsbfjyscqmcnwscyjbbsyycqmcnwscMisabwcbfiyrc.gxxqafcofycgackqqp
wjhqjiczsbfjyscwscwfpcwfpcfc.sidcyfngymfbnqidcxjabwsqa;cfapczsygpsycws
ofycfacq nghgynczdcafnjisrcNwscmqjinwchshzsicqmcnwsc find,cwqos.si,cofy
nqqcstbgnspcnqczscksajgasxdcwf  dr

Wscofycfzqjncnosand-ygtcdsfiycqmcfks,cognwcfcyqmn,cxgkwncziqoa
hqjynfbwscfapcifnwsicgaaqbsan-xqqegakckisdcsdsyrcWgycmfnwsi,cowqcwfp
zskjacxgmscfycfacfp.fabspcAfngqafxgyn,cwfpchqpgmgspcwgyc.gsoycsfixdrcWs
wfpchfpscwgychqasdcfycfczjnbwsicgacEgakynqoacfapczdcq sagakcywq ycga
Pjzxgacfapcgacnwscyjzjizycwscwfpchfpscwgychqasdchfadcnghsycq.sircWscwfp
fxyqczssacmqinjafnscsaqjkwcnqcysbjiscyqhscqmcnwsc qxgbscbqanifbnycfap
gacnwscsapcwscwfpczsbqhscigbwcsaqjkwcnqczscfxxjpspcnqcgacnwscPjzxga
asoy f siycfycfchsibwfanc igabsrcWscwfpcysancwgycyqacnqcSakxfapcnqczs
spjbfnspcgacfczgkcBfnwqxgbcbqxxskscfapcwfpcfmnsiofipycysancwghcnq
PjzxgacJag.siygndcnqcynjpdcxforcUghhdcpgpcaqncynjpdc.sidcsfiasynxdcfap
nqqecnqczfpcbqjiysycmqicfcowgxsrcWscwfpchqasdcfapcwscofyc q jxfi;cfap
wscpg.gpspcwgycnghscbjigqjyxdczsnossachjygbfxcfapchqnqigakcbgibxsyr
NwsacwscwfpczssacysancmqicfcnsihcnqcBfhzigpkscnqcysscfcxgnnxscxgmsrcWgy
mfnwsi,cishqaynifng.s,czjncbq.sinxdc iqjpcqmcnwscstbsyy,cwfpc fgpcwgy
zgxxycfapcziqjkwncwghcwqhsrcGncofycfncBfhzigpkscnwfncwscwfpchsn
YékqjgarcNwsdcosiscaqnchjbwchqiscnwfacfbljfganfabsycfycdsnczjncUghhd
mqjapckisfnc xsfyjiscgacnwscyqbgsndcqmcqascowqcwfpcyssacyqchjbwcqmcnws
oqixpcfapcofycis jnspcnqcqoacyqhscqmcnwsczgkksyncwqnsxycgacMifabsrcYjbw
fc siyqac(fycwgycmfnwsicfkissp)cofycosxxcoqinwceaqogak,cs.sacgmcwscwfp
aqnczssacnwscbwfihgakcbqh fagqacwscofyrc.gxxqafcofycsansinfgagakcfxyq—f
zigxxgfanc gfagyn—zjn,cjamqinjafnsxd,c.sidc qqir

NwscbficifacqachsiigxdcognwcgnycbfikqcqmcwgxfigqjycdqjnwrcNwscnoq
bqjygaycyfncqacnwscmiqancysfn;cUghhdcfapcwgycWjakfigfacmigsapcyfn
zswgaprcPsbgpspxdc.gxxqafcofycgacstbsxxsancy gigny;cwsces ncj cfcpss 
zfyycwjhcqmchsxqpdcmqichgxsycqmcnwsciqfprcNwscMisabwhsacmxjakcnwsgi
xfjkwnsicfapcxgkwncoqipycq.sicnwsgicywqjxpsiycfapcqmnsacUghhdcwfpcnq
ynifgacmqiofipcnqcbfnbwcnwscljgbec wifysrcNwgycofycaqncfxnqksnwsi
 xsfyfancmqicwgh,cfycwscwfpcasfixdcfxofdycnqchfescfcpsmnckjsyycfncnws
hsfagakcfapcywqjnczfbecfcyjgnfzxscfayosicgacnwscmfbscqmcfcwgkwcogapr
Zsygpsyc.gxxqaf’ycwjhhgakcoqjxpcbqamjyscfadzqpd;cnwscaqgyscqmcnwscbfi,
nqqr

If gpchqngqacnwiqjkwcy fbscsxfnsycqas;cyqcpqsycaqnqigsnd;cyqcpqsycnws
 qyysyygqacqmchqasdrcNwsyscosiscnwissckqqpcisfyqaycmqicUghhd’y
stbgnshsanrcWscwfpczssacyssaczdchfadcqmcwgycmigsapycnwfncpfdcgacnws
bqh fadcqmcnwsyscBqangasanfxyrcFncnwscbqaniqxcYékqjgacwfpc isysanspcwgh
nqcqascqmcnwscMisabwcbqh sngnqiycfap,cgacfayosicnqcwgycbqamjyspchjihji
qmcbqh xghsan,cnwscyofinwdcmfbscqmcnwscpig.sicwfpcpgybxqyspcfcxgascqm
ywgagakcowgnscnssnwrcGncofyc xsfyfancfmnsicnwfncwqaqjicnqcisnjiacnqcnws
 iqmfascoqixpcqmcy sbnfnqiycfhgpcajpksycfapcygkagmgbfancxqqeyrcNwsacfy
nqchqasd—wscisfxxdcwfpcfckisfncyjhcjapsicwgycbqaniqxrcYékqjga,c siwf y,
oqjxpcaqncnwgaecgncfckisfncyjhczjncUghhdcowq,cgacy gnscqmcnsh qifid
siiqiy,cofycfncwsfincnwscgawsignqicqmcyqxgpcgayngabnyceasocosxxcognw
owfncpgmmgbjxndcgncwfpczssackqncnqksnwsircNwgyceaqoxspkscwfpc is.gqjyxd
es ncwgyczgxxycognwgacnwscxghgnycqmcisfyqafzxscisbexsyyasyycfap,cgmcws
wfpczssacyqcbqaybgqjycqmcnwscxfzqjicxfnsancgachqasdcowsacnwsiscwfpczssa
ljsyngqachsisxdcqmcyqhscmisfecqmcnwscwgkwsicgansxxgksabs,cwqochjbwchqis
yqcaqocowsacwscofycfzqjncnqcynfescnwsckisfnsic fincqmcwgycyjzynfabs!cGn
ofycfcysigqjycnwgakcmqicwghr

Qmcbqjiys,cnwscga.synhsancofycfckqqpcqascfapcYékqjgacwfpchfafkspcnq
kg.scnwscgh isyygqacnwfncgncofyczdcfcmf.qjicqmcmigsapywg cnwschgnscqm
Gigywchqasdcofycnqczscgabxjpspcgacnwscbf gnfxcqmcnwscbqabsiarcUghhdcwfp
fcisy sbncmqicwgycmfnwsi’ycywisopasyycgaczjygasyychfnnsiycfapcgacnwgy
bfyscgncwfpczssacwgycmfnwsicowqcwfpcmgiyncyjkksynspcnwscga.synhsan;
hqasdcnqczschfpscgacnwschqnqiczjygasyy,c qnycqmchqasdrcHqisq.sicYékqjga
wfpcnwscjahgynfefzxscfgicqmcosfxnwrcUghhdcysncqjncnqcnifayxfnscganq
pfdy’coqiecnwfncxqipxdcbficgacowgbwcwscyfnrcWqocyhqqnwxdcgncifarcGa
owfncyndxscnwsdcwfpcbqhscbfissigakcfxqakcnwscbqjanidciqfpy!cNwscuqjiasd
xfgpcfchfkgbfxcmgaksicqacnwscksajgasc jxyscqmcxgmscfapckfxxfanxdcnws
hfbwgasidcqmcwjhfacasi.sycyniq.scnqcfayosicnwsczqjapgakcbqjiysycqmcnws
yogmnczxjscfaghfxr

Nwsdcpiq.scpqoacPfhscYnissnrcNwscynissncofyczjydcognwcjajyjfxcnifmmgb,
xqjpcognwcnwscwqiaycqmchqnqigynycfapcnwsckqakycqmcgh fngsan
nifh-pig.siyrcAsficnwscZfaecYékqjgacpisocj cfapcUghhdcfapcwgycmigsap
fxgkwnsprcFcxgnnxsceaqncqmc sq xscbqxxsbnspcqacnwscmqqn fnwcnqc fd
wqhfkscnqcnwscyaqingakchqnqircNwsc findcofycnqcpgascnqksnwsicnwfn
s.sagakcgacYékqjga’ycwqnsxcfap,chsfaowgxs,cUghhdcfapcwgycmigsap,cowq
ofycynfdgakcognwcwgh,cosiscnqckqcwqhscnqcpisyyrcNwscbficynssispcqjn
yxqoxdcmqicKifmnqacYnissncowgxscnwscnoqcdqjakchsac jywspcnwsgicofd
nwiqjkwcnwsceaqncqmckfvsiyrcNwsdcofxespcaqinwofipcognwcfcbjigqjy
mssxgakcqmcpgyf  qganhsancgacnwscstsibgys,cowgxscnwscbgndcwjakcgnyc fxs
kxqzsycqmcxgkwncfzq.scnwshcgacfcwfvscqmcyjhhsics.sagakr

GacUghhd’ycwqjyscnwgycpgaasicwfpczssac iqaqjabspcfacqbbfygqarcFcbsinfga
 igpschgakxspcognwcwgyc fisany’cnis gpfngqa,cfcbsinfgacsfksiasyy,cfxyq,
nqc xfdcmfyncfapcxqqyscmqicnwscafhsycqmckisfncmqisgkacbgngsycwf.scfn
xsfyncnwgyc.ginjsrcUghhd,cnqq,cxqqespc.sidcosxxcowsacwscofycpisyysp
fap,cfycwscynqqpcgacnwscwfxxckg.gakcfcxfyncsljfngqacnqcnwsczqoycqmcwgy
pisyycngs,cwgycmfnwsichfdcwf.scmsxncs.sacbqhhsibgfxxdcyfngymgspcfn
wf.gakcysbjispcmqicwgycyqacljfxgngsycqmnsacja jibwfysfzxsrcWgycmfnwsi,
nwsismqis,cofycjajyjfxxdcmigsapxdcognwc.gxxqafcfapcwgychfaasicst isyysp
fcisfxcisy sbncmqicmqisgkacfbbqh xgywhsany;czjncnwgycyjznxsndcqmcwgy
wqyncofyc iqzfzxdcxqyncj qacnwscWjakfigfa,cowqcofyczskgaagakcnqcwf.scf
ywfi cpsygiscmqicwgycpgaasir

Nwscpgaasicofycstbsxxsan,cstljgygnsrcYékqjga,cUghhdcpsbgpsp,cwfpcfc.sid
ismgaspcnfynsrcNwsc findcofycgabisfyspczdcfcdqjakcSakxgywhfacafhsp
IqjnwcowqhcUghhdcwfpcyssacognwcYékqjgacfncBfhzigpksrcNwscdqjakchsa
yj  spcgacfcyajkciqqhcxgnczdcsxsbnigbcbfapxs-xfh yrcNwsdcnfxespc.qxjzxd
fapcognwcxgnnxscisysi.srcUghhd,cowqyscghfkgafngqacofycegapxgak,
bqabsg.spcnwscxg.sxdcdqjnwcqmcnwscMisabwhsacnogaspcsxskfanxdcj qacnws
mgihcmifhsoqiecqmcnwscSakxgywhfa’ychfaasircFckifbsmjxcghfkscqmcwgy,cws
nwqjkwn,cfapcfcujyncqasrcWscfphgispcnwscpstnsigndcognwcowgbwcnwsgicwqyn
pgisbnspcnwscbqa.siyfngqarcNwscmg.scdqjakchsacwfpc.figqjycnfynsycfap
nwsgicnqakjsycwfpczssacxqqysasprc.gxxqaf,cognwcghhsayscisy sbn,czskfa
nqcpgybq.sicnqcnwschgxpxdcyji igyspcSakxgywhfacnwsczsfjngsycqmcnws
Sakxgywchfpigkfx,cps xqigakcnwscxqyycqmcqxpcgaynijhsanyrcIg.gèis,caqn
owqxxdcgaksajqjyxd,cjapsinqqecnqcst xfgacnqcUghhdcnwscnigjh wcqmcnws
MisabwchsbwfagbgfayrcNwscisyqafanc.qgbscqmcnwscWjakfigfacofycfzqjncnq
 is.fgxcgacigpgbjxscqmcnwscy jigqjycxjnsycqmcnwsciqhfangbc fgansiycowsa
Yékqjgacyws wsipspcwgyc findcganqc qxgngbyrcWsiscofycbqaksagfxckiqjap
mqicfxxrcUghhd,cjapsicksasiqjycgamxjsabsy,cmsxncnwsczjigspcvsfxcqmcwgy
mfnwsicofescnqcxgmscognwgacwgh:cwscfiqjyspcnwscnqi gpcIqjnwcfncxfynr
NwsciqqhckisocpqjzxdcwqncfapcYékqjga’ycnfyeckisocwfipsicsfbwchqhsan:
nwsiscofycs.sacpfaksicqmc siyqafxcy gnsrcNwscfxsincwqyncfncfa
q  qinjagndcxgmnspcwgyckxfyycnqcWjhfagndcfap,cowsacnwscnqfyncwfpczssa
pijae,cwscnwisocq sacfcogapqocygkagmgbfanxdr

Nwfncagkwncnwscbgndcoqiscnwschfyecqmcfcbf gnfxrcNwscmg.scdqjakchsa
yniqxxspcfxqakcYns wsa’ycKissacgacfcmfgancbxqjpcqmcfiqhfngbcyhqesrcNwsd
nfxespcxqjpxdcfapckfgxdcfapcnwsgicbxqfeycpfakxspcmiqhcnwsgicywqjxpsiyr
Nwsc sq xschfpscofdcmqicnwshrcFncnwscbqiasicqmcKifmnqacYnissncfcywqin
mfnchfacofyc jnngakcnoqcwfapyqhscxfpgsycqacfcbficgacbwfikscqmcfaqnwsi
mfnchfarcNwscbficpiq.scqmmcfapcnwscywqincmfnchfacbfjkwncygkwncqmcnws
 findr

“Fapiér”

“Gn’ycMfixsd!”

FcnqiisancqmcnfxecmqxxqosprcMfixsdcofycfacFhsigbfarcAqcqasceasoc.sid
osxxcowfncnwscnfxecofycfzqjnrc.gxxqafcfapcIg.gèiscosiscnwscaqgygsyn,
zjncfxxcnwschsacosiscstbgnsprcNwsdckqncj cqacfcbfi,cyljssvgak
nwshysx.sycnqksnwsicfhgpchjbwcxfjkwnsircNwsdcpiq.sczdcnwscbiqop,
zxsapspcaqocganqcyqmncbqxqjiy,cnqcfchjygbcqmchsiidczsxxyrcNwsdcnqqecnws
nifgacfncOsynxfapcIqocfapcgacfcmsocysbqapy,cfycgncysshspcnqcUghhd,cnwsd
osiscofxegakcqjncqmcEgakynqoacYnfngqarcNwscngbesn-bqxxsbnqicyfxjnsp
Ughhd;cwscofycfacqxpchfa:

“Mgascagkwn,cygi!”

Gncofycfcysisascyjhhsicagkwn;cnwscwfizqjicxfdcxgescfcpfiesaspchgiiqicfn
nwsgicmssnrcNwsdc iqbsspspcnqofipycgncognwcxgaespcfihy,cygakgakc_Bfpsn
Iqjyysx_cgacbwqijy,cynfh gakcnwsgicmssncfncs.sid:

_“Wq!cWq!cWqwé,c.ifghsan!”_

Nwsdckqncganqcfciqozqfncfncnwscyxg cfapchfpscqjncmqicnwscFhsigbfa’y
dfbwnrcNwsiscofycnqczscyj  si,chjygb,cbfipyrc.gxxqafcyfgpcognw
bqa.gbngqa:

“Gncgycpsxgkwnmjx!”

Nwsiscofycfcdfbwnc gfaqcgacnwscbfzgarc.gxxqafc xfdspcfcofxnvcmqicMfixsd
fapcIg.gèis,cMfixsdcfbngakcfycbf.fxgsicfapcIg.gèiscfycxfpdrcNwsacfa
gh iqh njcyljfiscpfabs,cnwschsacps.gygakcqigkgafxcmgkjisyrcOwfn
hsiighsan!cUghhdcnqqecwgyc fincognwcfcogxx;cnwgycofycyssgakcxgms,cfn
xsfynrcNwsacMfixsdckqncqjncqmczisfnwcfapcbigspc_“Ynq !”_cFchfacziqjkwn
gacfcxgkwncyj  si,cfapcnwscdqjakchsacyfncpqoacnqcgncmqicmqih’ycyfesr
Nwsdcpifae,cwqos.si:cgncofycZqwshgfarcNwsdcpifaecGisxfap,cSakxfap,
Mifabs,cWjakfid,cnwscJagnspcYnfnsycqmcFhsigbfrcUghhdchfpscfcy ssbw,cf
xqakcy ssbw,c.gxxqafcyfdgak:c_“Wsfi!cwsfi!”_cowsas.sicnwsiscofycf
 fjysrcNwsiscofycfckisfncbxf  gakcqmcwfapycowsacwscyfncpqoarcGnchjyn
wf.sczssacfckqqpcy ssbwrcMfixsdcbxf  spcwghcqacnwsczfbecfapcxfjkwsp
xqjpxdrcOwfncuq.gfxcmsxxqoy!cOwfnckqqpcbqh fadcnwsdcosis!

Bfipy!cbfipy!cNwscnfzxscofycbxsfisprc.gxxqafcisnjiaspcljgsnxdcnqcwgy
 gfaqcfapc xfdspc.qxjanfigsycmqicnwshrcNwscqnwsichsac xfdspckfhscfmnsi
kfhs,cmxgakgakcnwshysx.syczqxpxdcganqcnwscfp.sanjisrcNwsdcpifaecnws
wsfxnwcqmcnwscLjssacqmcWsfinycfapcqmcnwscLjssacqmcPgfhqapyrcUghhdcmsxn
qzybjisxdcnwscxfbecqmcfacfjpgsabs:cnwscogncofycmxfywgakrc xfdcifac.sid
wgkwcfapc f siczskfacnqc fyyrcUghhdcpgpcaqnceaqocstfbnxdcowqcofy
ogaagakczjncwsceasocnwfncwscofycxqygakrcZjncgncofycwgycqoacmfjxncmqicws
misljsanxdchgynqqecwgycbfipycfapcnwscqnwsichsacwfpcnqcbfxbjxfnscwgy
GrQrJr‘ycmqicwghrcNwsdcosiscps.gxycqmcmsxxqoyczjncwscogywspcnwsdcoqjxp
ynq :cgncofycksnngakcxfnsrcYqhsqasckf.scnwscnqfyncqmcnwscdfbwnc_Nws
ZsxxscqmcAso qin_cfapcnwsacyqhsqasc iq qyspcqasckisfnckfhscmqicf
mgagywr

Nwsc gfaqcwfpcynq  sp;c.gxxqafchjyncwf.sckqascj cqacpsbercGncofycf
nsiigzxsckfhsrcNwsdcynq  spcujynczsmqiscnwscsapcqmcgncnqcpigaecmqi
xjbercUghhdcjapsiynqqpcnwfncnwsckfhscxfdczsnossacIqjnwcfapcYékqjgar
Owfncstbgnshsan!cUghhdcofycstbgnspcnqq;cwscoqjxpcxqys,cqmcbqjiysrcWqo
hjbwcwfpcwscoignnsacfofd?cNwschsaciqyscnqcnwsgicmssncnqc xfdcnwscxfyn
nigbey,cnfxegakcfapcksyngbjxfngakrcIqjnwcoqarcNwscbfzgacywqqecognwcnws
dqjakchsa’ycbwssigakcfapcnwscbfipycosisczjapxspcnqksnwsircNwsdczskfa
nwsacnqckfnwsicgacowfncnwsdcwfpcoqarcMfixsdcfapcUghhdcosiscnwscwsf.gsyn
xqysiyr

Wsceasocnwfncwscoqjxpciskisncgacnwschqiagakczjncfnc isysancwscofyckxfp
qmcnwscisyn,ckxfpcqmcnwscpfiecynj qicnwfncoqjxpcbq.sicj cwgycmqxxdrcWs
xsfaspcwgycsxzqoycqacnwscnfzxscfapcisynspcwgycwsfpczsnossacwgycwfapy,
bqjangakcnwsczsfnycqmcwgycnsh xsyrcNwscbfzgacpqqicq saspcfapcwscyfocnws
Wjakfigfacynfapgakcgacfcywfmncqmckisdcxgkwn:

“Pfdzisfe,cksanxshsa!”



NOQcKFXXFANY

Nwsckisdcofihcs.sagakcqmcFjkjyncwfpcpsybsapspcj qacnwscbgndcfapcfchgxp
ofihcfgi,cfchshqidcqmcyjhhsi,cbgibjxfnspcgacnwscynissnyrcNwscynissny,
ywjnnsispcmqicnwscis qyscqmcYjapfd,cyofihspcognwcfckfgxdcbqxqjisp
biqoprcXgescgxxjhgaspc sfixycnwscxfh ycywqascmiqhcnwscyjhhgnycqmcnwsgi
nfxxc qxsycj qacnwscxg.gakcnstnjisczsxqocowgbw,cbwfakgakcywf scfapcwjs
jabsfygakxd,cysancj cganqcnwscofihckisdcs.sagakcfgicfacjabwfakgak
jabsfygakchjihjir

NoqcdqjakchsacbfhscpqoacnwscwgxxcqmcIjnxfapcYljfisrcQascqmcnwshcofy
ujynczigakgakcfcxqakchqaqxqkjscnqcfcbxqysrcNwscqnwsi,cowqcofxespcqacnws
.sikscqmcnwsc fnwcfapcofycfncnghsycqzxgkspcnqcyns cqacnqcnwsciqfp,
qogakcnqcwgycbqh fagqa’ycijpsasyy,coqiscfacfhjyspcxgynsagakcmfbsrcWs
ofycyljfncfapcijppdrcFcdfbwngakcbf cofycywq.spcmficzfbecmiqhcwgy
mqiswsfpcfapcnwscafiifng.scnqcowgbwcwscxgynsaspchfpscbqaynfancof.sycqm
st isyygqaczisfecmqinwcq.sicwgycmfbscmiqhcnwscbqiasiycqmcwgycaqyscfap
sdsycfapchqjnwrcXgnnxscusnycqmcowssvgakcxfjkwnsicmqxxqospcqascfaqnwsi
qjncqmcwgycbqa.jxyspczqpdrcWgycsdsy,cnogaexgakcognwcbjaagakcsauqdhsan,
kxfabspcfncs.sidchqhsancnqofipycwgycbqh fagqa’ycmfbsrcQabscqicnogbscws
isfiifakspcnwscxgkwncofnsi iqqmcowgbwcwscwfpcyxjakcq.sicqascywqjxpsicga
nqisfpqicmfywgqarcWgyczissbwsy,cwgycowgnscijzzsicywqsycfapcwgycufjangxd
yxjakcofnsi iqqmcst isyyspcdqjnwrcZjncwgycmgkjiscmsxxcganqciqnjapgndcfn
nwscofgyn,cwgycwfgicofycybfancfapckisdcfapcwgycmfbs,cowsacnwscof.sycqm
st isyygqacwfpc fyyspcq.sicgn,cwfpcfcif.fkspcxqqer

Owsacwscofycljgnscyjiscnwfncnwscafiifng.scwfpcsapspcwscxfjkwsp
aqgysxsyyxdcmqicmjxxdcwfxmcfchgajnsrcNwsacwscyfgp:

“Osxx!rrrcNwfncnfesycnwsczgybjgn!”

Wgyc.qgbscysshspcogaaqospcqmc.gkqji;cfapcnqcsamqibscwgycoqipycwscfppsp
ognwcwjhqji:

“Nwfncnfesycnwscyqxgnfid,cjagljs,cfap,cgmcGchfdcyqcbfxxcgn,c_isbwsibwé_
zgybjgn!”

WsczsbfhscysigqjycfapcygxsancowsacwscwfpcyfgpcnwgyrcWgycnqakjscofy
ngispcmqicwscwfpczssacnfxegakcfxxcnwscfmnsiaqqacgacfc jzxgb-wqjyscga
PqiysncYnissnrcHqync sq xscbqaygpsispcXsaswfacfcxssbwczjn,cgacy gnscqm
nwgycis jnfngqa,cwgycfpiqgnasyycfapcsxqljsabscwfpcfxofdyc is.sanspcwgy
migsapycmiqhcmqihgakcfadcksasifxc qxgbdcfkfgayncwghrcWscwfpcfczif.s
hfaasicqmcbqhgakcj cnqcfc findcqmcnwshcgacfczficfapcqmcwqxpgakcwghysxm
aghzxdcfncnwsczqipsiycqmcnwscbqh fadcjangxcwscofycgabxjpspcgacfciqjapr
Wscofycfcy qingakc.fkifancfihspcognwcfc.fyncynqbecqmcynqigsy,cxghsigbey
fapcigppxsyrcWscofycgaysaygng.scnqcfxxcegapycqmcpgybqjinsydrcAqcqas
easocwqocwscfbwgs.spcnwscynsiacnfyecqmcxg.gak,czjncwgycafhscofyc.fkjsxd
fyyqbgfnspcognwcifbgakcngyyjsyr

“Fapcowsiscpgpcdqjc gbecwsicj ,cBqixsd?”cwscfyespr

Bqixsdcifacwgycnqakjscyogmnxdcfxqakcwgycj  sicxg r

“Qascagkwn,chfa,”cwscyfgp,c“GcofyckqgakcfxqakcPfhscYnissncfapcGcy qnnsp
fcmgascnfincjapsicOfnsiwqjys’ycbxqbecfapcyfgpckqqp-agkwn,cdqjceaqorcYq
oscosancmqicfcofxeciqjapczdcnwscbfafxcfapcywscnqxpchscywscofycfcyxf.sd
gacfcwqjyscgacZfkkqncYnissnrcGc jnchdcfihciqjapcwsicfapcyljssvspcwsicf
zgncnwfncagkwnrcNwsacastncYjapfd,chfa,cGchsncwsiczdcf  qganhsanrcOs
osancqjncnqcPqaadziqqecfapcGcziqjkwncwsicganqcfcmgsxpcnwsisrcYwscnqxp
hscywscjyspcnqckqcognwcfcpfgidhfarrrrcGncofycmgas,chfarcBgkfisnnsy
s.sidcagkwncyws’pczigakchscfapc fdgakcnwscnifhcqjncfapczfbercFapcqas
agkwncywscziqjkwnchscnoqczxqqpdcmgascbgkfiy—Q,cnwscisfxcbwssys,cdqj
eaqo,cnwfncnwscqxpcmsxxqocjyspcnqcyhqesrrrrcGcofycfmifgp,chfa,cyws’p
ksncgacnwscmfhgxdcofdrcZjncyws’ycj cnqcnwscpqpksr”

“Hfdzscywscnwgaeycdqj’xxchfiidcwsi,”cyfgpcXsaswfar

“GcnqxpcwsicGcofycqjncqmcfcuqz,”cyfgpcBqixsdrc“GcnqxpcwsicGcofycga
 gh’yrcYwscpqsya’nceaqochdcafhsrcGcofycnqqcwfgidcnqcnsxxcwsicnwfnrcZjn
ywscnwgaeycG’hcfczgncqmcbxfyy,cdqjceaqor”

Xsaswfacxfjkwspcfkfga,caqgysxsyyxdr

“Qmcfxxcnwsckqqpcqasycs.sicGcwsfip,”cwscyfgp,c“nwfncsh wfngbfxxdcnfesy
nwsczgybjgnr”

Bqixsd’ycynigpscfbeaqoxspkspcnwscbqh xghsanrcNwscyogakcqmcwgyczjixd
zqpdchfpscwgycmigsapcstsbjnscfcmsocxgkwncyeg ycmiqhcnwsc fnwcnqcnws
iqfpofdcfapczfbecfkfgarcBqixsdcofycnwscyqacqmcfacgay sbnqicqmc qxgbs
fapcwscwfpcgawsignspcwgycmfnwsi’ycmifhscfapckfgnrcWscofxespcognwcwgy
wfapyczdcwgycygpsy,cwqxpgakcwghysxmcsisbncfapcyofdgakcwgycwsfpcmiqh
ygpscnqcygpsrcWgycwsfpcofycxfiks,ckxqzjxficfapcqgxd;cgncyosfnspcgacfxx
osfnwsiy;cfapcwgycxfiksciqjapcwfn,cysncj qacgncygpsofdy,cxqqespcxgescf
zjxzcowgbwcwfpckiqoacqjncqmcfaqnwsircWscfxofdycynfispcynifgkwnczsmqis
wghcfycgmcwscosiscqac fifpscfap,cowsacwscogywspcnqckfvscfmnsicyqhsqas
gacnwscynissn,cgncofycasbsyyfidcmqicwghcnqchq.scwgyczqpdcmiqhcnwscwg yr
Fnc isysancwscofycfzqjncnqoarcOwsas.sicfadcuqzcofyc.fbfancfcmigsapcofy
fxofdycisfpdcnqckg.scwghcnwscwfipcoqiprcWscofycqmnsacnqczscyssacofxegak
ognwc qxgbshsacgac xfgacbxqnwsy,cnfxegakcsfiasynxdrcWsceasocnwscgaasi
ygpscqmcfxxcfmmfgiycfapcofycmqapcqmcpsxg.sigakcmgafxcujpkhsanyrcWs
y qescognwqjncxgynsagakcnqcnwscy ssbwcqmcwgycbqh fagqayrcWgy
bqa.siyfngqacofychfgaxdcfzqjncwghysxm:cowfncwscwfpcyfgpcnqcyjbwcf
 siyqacfapcowfncyjbwcfc siyqacwfpcyfgpcnqcwghcfapcowfncwscwfpcyfgpcnq
ysnnxscnwschfnnsircOwsacwscis qinspcnwsyscpgfxqkjsycwscfy gifnspcnws
mgiyncxsnnsicqmcwgycafhscfmnsicnwschfaasicqmcMxqisangasyr

XsaswfacqmmsispcwgycmigsapcfcbgkfisnnsrcFycnwscnoqcdqjakchsacofxespcqa
nwiqjkwcnwscbiqopcBqixsdcqbbfygqafxxdcnjiaspcnqcyhgxscfncyqhscqmcnws
 fyygakckgixyczjncXsaswfa’yckfvscofycmgtspcqacnwscxfikscmfganchqqa
bgibxspcognwcfcpqjzxscwfxqrcWscofnbwspcsfiasynxdcnwsc fyygakcqmcnws
kisdcoszcqmcnogxgkwncfbiqyycgnycmfbsrcFncxsaknwcwscyfgp:

“Osxxcrrrcnsxxchs,cBqixsd,cGcyj  qyscdqj’xxczscfzxscnqc jxxcgncqmmcfxx
igkwn,csw?”

Bqixsdcbxqyspcqascsdscst isyyg.sxdcfycfacfayosir

“Gycywsckfhscmqicnwfn?”cfyespcXsaswfacpjzgqjyxdrc“Dqjcbfacas.siceaqo
oqhsar”

“Yws’ycfxxcigkwn,”cyfgpcBqixsdrc“Gceaqocnwscofdcnqcksncfiqjapcwsi,chfar
Yws’ycfczgnckqascqachsr”

“Dqj’iscowfncGcbfxxcfckfdcXqnwfigq,”cyfgpcXsaswfarc“Fapcnwsc iq sicegap
qmcfcXqnwfigq,cnqq!”

Fcywfpscqmchqbesidcisxgs.spcnwscysi.gxgndcqmcwgychfaasircNqcyf.s
wghysxmcwscwfpcnwscwfzgncqmcxsf.gakcwgycmxfnnsidcq sacnqcnws
gansi isnfngqacqmcifgxxsidrcZjncBqixsdcwfpcaqncfcyjznxschgapr

“Nwsis’ycaqnwgakcnqcnqjbwcfckqqpcyxf.sd,”cwscfmmgihsprc“Nfeschdcng cmqi
gnr”

“Zdcqascowqcwfycnigspcnwshcfxx,”cyfgpcXsaswfar

“MgiyncGcjyspcnqckqcognwckgixy,cdqjceaqo,”cyfgpcBqixsd,cjazqyqhgak;
“kgixycqmmcnwscYqjnwcBgibjxfircGcjyspcnqcnfescnwshcqjn,chfa,cqacnws
nifhcyqhsowsiscfapc fdcnwscnifhcqicnfescnwshcnqcfczfapcqicfc xfdcfncnws
nwsfniscqiczjdcnwshcbwqbqxfnscfapcyossnycqicyqhsnwgakcnwfncofdrcGcjysp
nqcy sapchqasdcqacnwshcigkwncsaqjkw,”cwscfppsp,cgacfcbqa.gabgakcnqas,
fycgmcwscofycbqaybgqjycqmczsgakcpgyzsxgs.spr

ZjncXsaswfacbqjxpcosxxczsxgs.scgn;cwscaqppspckif.sxdr

“Gceaqocnwfnckfhs,”cwscyfgp,c“fapcgn’ycfchjk’yckfhsr”

“FapcpfhacnwscnwgakcGcs.sickqncqjncqmcgn,”cyfgpcBqixsdr

“Pgnnqcwsis,”cyfgpcXsaswfar

“Qaxdcqmmcqmcqascqmcnwsh,”cyfgpcBqixsdr

Wschqgynsaspcwgycj  sicxg czdcijaagakcwgycnqakjscfxqakcgnrcNws
isbqxxsbngqaczigkwnsaspcwgycsdsyrcWscnqqckfvspcfncnwsc fxscpgybcqmcnws
hqqa,caqocasfixdc.sgxsp,cfapcysshspcnqchspgnfnsr

“Ywscofycrrrcfczgncqmcfxxcigkwn,”cwscyfgpciskisnmjxxdr

WscofycygxsancfkfgarcNwsacwscfppsp:

“Yws’ycqacnwscnjimcaqorcGcyfocwsicpig.gakcpqoacSfixcYnissncqascagkwn
ognwcnoqcmsxxqoycognwcwsicqacfcbfir”

“Gcyj  qyscnwfn’ycdqjicpqgak,”cyfgpcXsaswfar

“Nwsiscofycqnwsiycfncwsiczsmqischs,”cyfgpcBqixsdc wgxqyq wgbfxxdr

NwgycnghscXsaswfacofycgabxgaspcnqcpgyzsxgs.srcWscywqqecwgycwsfpcnqcfap
miqcfapcyhgxspr

“Dqjceaqocdqjcbfa’ncegpchs,cBqixsd,”cwscyfgpr

“WqasyncnqcKqp!”cyfgpcBqixsdrc“Pgpa’ncywscnsxxchscwsiysxm?”

Xsaswfachfpscfcnifkgbcksynjisr

“Zfysczsnifdsi!”cwscyfgpr

Fycnwsdc fyyspcfxqakcnwscifgxgakycqmcNigagndcBqxxsks,cXsaswfacyeg  sp
qjncganqcnwsciqfpcfapc ssispcj cfncnwscbxqber

“Nosandcfmnsi,”cwscyfgpr

“Nghscsaqjkw,”cyfgpcBqixsdrc“Yws’xxczscnwsiscfxxcigkwnrcGcfxofdycxsn
wsicofgncfczgnr”

Xsaswfacxfjkwspcljgsnxdr

“Sbqp!cBqixsd,cdqjceaqocwqocnqcnfescnwsh,”cwscyfgpr

“G’hcj cnqcfxxcnwsgicxgnnxscnigbey,”cBqixsdcbqamsyyspr

“Zjncnsxxchs,”cyfgpcXsaswfacfkfga,c“fiscdqjcyjiscdqjcbfaczigakcgncqmm
fxxcigkwn?cDqjceaqocgn’ycfcngbexgywcuqzrcNwsd’iscpfhacbxqyscqacnwfn
 qganrcSw?rrrcOwfn?”

Wgyczigkwn,cyhfxxcsdsycysfibwspcwgycbqh fagqa’ycmfbscmqicisfyyjifabsr
Bqixsdcyojakcwgycwsfpcnqcfapcmiqcfycgmcnqcnqyycfygpscfacgaygynsan
gaysbn,cfapcwgycziqoyckfnwsispr

“G’xxc jxxcgncqmm,”cwscyfgprc“Xsf.scgncnqchs,cbfa’ncdqj?”

XsaswfacyfgpcaqchqisrcWscpgpcaqncogywcnqcijmmxscwgycmigsap’ycnsh si,cnq
zscysancnqcnwscps.gxcfapcnqxpcnwfncwgycfp.gbscofycaqncofansprcFcxgnnxs
nfbncofycasbsyyfidrcZjncBqixsd’ycziqocofycyqqacyhqqnwcfkfgarcWgy
nwqjkwnycosiscijaagakcfaqnwsicofdr

“Yws’ycfcmgascpsbsancnfin,”cwscyfgp,cognwcf  isbgfngqa;c“nwfn’ycowfn
ywscgyr”

NwsdcofxespcfxqakcAfyyfjcYnissncfapcnwsacnjiaspcganqcEgxpfiscYnissnr
Aqncmficmiqhcnwsc qibwcqmcnwscbxjzcfcwfi gyncynqqpcgacnwsciqfpofd,
 xfdgakcnqcfcxgnnxscigakcqmcxgynsasiyrcWsc xjbespcfncnwscogisy
wsspxsyyxd,ckxfabgakcljgbexdcmiqhcnghscnqcnghscfncnwscmfbscqmcsfbw
aso-bqhsicfapcmiqhcnghscnqcnghs,cosfigxdcfxyq,cfncnwscyedrcWgycwfi ,
nqq,cwsspxsyycnwfncwsicbq.sigakycwfpcmfxxsacfzqjncwsiceassy,cysshsp
osfidcfxgescqmcnwscsdsycqmcynifaksiycfapcqmcwsichfynsi’ycwfapyrcQas
wfapc xfdspcgacnwsczfyycnwschsxqpdcqmc_Ygxsan,cQcHqdxs_,cowgxscnws
qnwsicwfapcbfissispcgacnwscniszxscfmnsicsfbwckiqj cqmcaqnsyrcNwscaqnsy
qmcnwscfgicyqjapspcpss cfapcmjxxr

Nwscnoqcdqjakchsacofxespcj cnwscynissncognwqjncy sfegak,cnwschqjiamjx
hjygbcmqxxqogakcnwshrcOwsacnwsdcisfbwspcYns wsa’ycKissacnwsdcbiqyysp
nwsciqfprcWsiscnwscaqgyscqmcnifhy,cnwscxgkwnycfapcnwscbiqopcisxsfysp
nwshcmiqhcnwsgicygxsabsr

“Nwsiscywscgy!”cyfgpcBqixsdr

FncnwscbqiasicqmcWjhscYnissncfcdqjakcoqhfacofycynfapgakrcYwscoqiscf
zxjscpisyycfapcfcowgnscyfgxqicwfnrcYwscynqqpcqacnwscbjizynqas,cyogakgak
fcyjaywfpscgacqascwfaprcXsaswfackisocxg.sxdr

“Xsn’ycwf.scfcxqqecfncwsi,cBqixsd,”cwscyfgpr

Bqixsdckxfabspcygpsofdycfncwgycmigsapcfapcfacja xsfyfanckigacf  sfisp
qacwgycmfbsr

“Fiscdqjcnidgakcnqcksncgaygpschs?”cwscfyespr

“Pfhacgn!”cyfgpcXsaswfaczqxpxd,c“Gcpqa’ncofancfacganiqpjbngqarcFxxcG
ofancgycnqcwf.scfcxqqecfncwsircG’hcaqnckqgakcnqcsfncwsir”

“QrrrrcFcxqqecfncwsi?”cyfgpcBqixsd,chqiscfhgfzxdrc“OsxxcrrrcG’xxcnsxx
dqjcowfnrcG’xxckqcq.sicfapcnfxecnqcwsicfapcdqjcbfac fyyczdr”

“Igkwn!”cyfgpcXsaswfar

Bqixsdcwfpcfxisfpdcnwiqoacqascxskcq.sicnwscbwfgaycowsacXsaswfacbfxxsp
qjn:

“Fapcfmnsi?cOwsiscogxxcoschssn?”

“Wfxmcnsa,”cfayosispcBqixsd,czigakgakcq.sicwgycqnwsicxskr

“Owsis?”

“BqiasicqmcHsiigqacYnissnrcOs’xxczscbqhgakczfber”

“Oqiecgncfxxcigkwncaqo,”cyfgpcXsaswfacgacmfisosxxr

BqixsdcpgpcaqncfayosircWscyfjansispcfbiqyycnwsciqfpcyofdgakcwgycwsfp
miqhcygpscnqcygpsrcWgyczjxe,cwgycsfydc fbs,cfapcnwscyqxgpcyqjapcqmcwgy
zqqnycwfpcyqhsnwgakcqmcnwscbqaljsiqicgacnwshrcWscf  iqfbwspcnwscdqjak
oqhfacfap,cognwqjncyfxjngak,czskfacfncqabscnqcbqa.siyscognwcwsircYws
yojakcwsicjhzisxxfchqiscljgbexdcfapcstsbjnspcwfxmcnjiaycqacwsicwssxyr
Qabscqicnogbscowsacwscy qescnqcwsicfncbxqyscljfinsiycywscxfjkwspcfap
zsancwsicwsfpr

Xsaswfacqzysi.spcnwshcmqicfcmsochgajnsyrcNwsacwscofxespcif gpxdcfxqak
zsygpscnwscbwfgaycfncyqhscpgynfabscfapcbiqyyspcnwsciqfpcqzxgljsxdrcFy
wscf  iqfbwspcWjhscYnissncbqiasicwscmqjapcnwscfgicwsf.gxdcybsanspcfap
wgycsdsychfpscfcyogmncfatgqjycybijngadcqmcnwscdqjakcoqhfa’ycf  sfifabsr
YwscwfpcwsicYjapfdcmgasidcqarcWsiczxjscysikscyegincofycwsxpcfncnws
ofgynczdcfczsxncqmczxfbecxsfnwsircNwsckisfncygx.siczjbexscqmcwsiczsxn
ysshspcnqcps isyycnwscbsaniscqmcwsiczqpd,cbfnbwgakcnwscxgkwncynjmmcqm
wsicowgnsczxqjyscxgescfcbxg rcYwscoqiscfcywqinczxfbecufbesncognw
hqnwsi-qm- sfixczjnnqaycfapcfcifkkspczxfbeczqfrcNwscsapycqmcwsicnjxxs
bqxxfisnnscwfpczssacbfismjxxdcpgyqipsispcfapcfczgkczjabwcqmcispcmxqosiy
ofyc gaaspcgacwsiczqyqh,cynshycj ofipyrcXsaswfa’ycsdsycaqnsp
f  iq.gakxdcwsicynqjncywqinchjybjxficzqpdrcMifaecijpscwsfxnwckxqospcga
wsicmfbs,cqacwsicmfncispcbwsseycfapcgacwsicjafzfywspczxjscsdsyrcWsi
msfnjisycosisczxjanrcYwscwfpcziqfpcaqynigxy,cfcynifkkxgakchqjnwcowgbw
xfdcq sacgacfcbqansanspcxssi,cfapcnoqc iqusbngakcmiqancnssnwrcFycws
 fyyspcXsaswfacnqqecqmmcwgycbf cfap,cfmnsicfzqjncnsacysbqapy,cBqixsd
isnjiaspcfcyfxjnscnqcnwscfgircNwgycwscpgpczdcifgygakcwgycwfapc.fkjsxd
fapc sayg.sxdcbwfakgakcnwscfakxscqmc qygngqacqmcwgycwfnr

XsaswfacofxespcfycmficfycnwscYwsxzqjiascWqnsxcowsiscwscwfxnspcfap
ofgnsprcFmnsicofgngakcmqicfcxgnnxscnghscwscyfocnwshcbqhgakcnqofipycwgh
fap,cowsacnwsdcnjiaspcnqcnwscigkwn,cwscmqxxqospcnwsh,cyns  gakcxgkwnxd
gacwgycowgnscywqsy,cpqoacqascygpscqmcHsiigqacYljfisrcFycwscofxespcqa
yxqoxd,cnghgakcwgyc fbscnqcnwsgiy,cwscofnbwspcBqixsd’ycwsfpcowgbw
njiaspcfncs.sidchqhsancnqofipycnwscdqjakcoqhfa’ycmfbscxgescfczgkczfxx
is.qx.gakcqacfc g.qnrcWsces ncnwsc fgicgac.gsocjangxcwscwfpcyssacnwsh
bxghzgakcnwscynfgiycqmcnwscPqaadziqqecnifh;cnwsacwscnjiaspcfzqjncfap
osanczfbecnwscofdcwscwfpcbqhsr

AqocnwfncwscofycfxqascwgycmfbscxqqespcqxpsircWgyckfgsndcysshspcnq
mqiyfescwghcfap,cfycwscbfhsczdcnwscifgxgakycqmcnwscPjes’ycXfoa,cws
fxxqospcwgycwfapcnqcijacfxqakcnwshrcNwscfgicowgbwcnwscwfi gyncwfp
 xfdspczskfacnqcbqaniqxcwgychq.shsanyrcWgycyqmnxdc fppspcmssnc xfdsp
nwschsxqpdcowgxscwgycmgaksiycyos ncfcybfxscqmc.figfngqaycgpxdcfxqakcnws
ifgxgakycfmnsicsfbwckiqj cqmcaqnsyr

WscofxespcxgynxsyyxdciqjapcYns wsa’ycKissacfapcnwsacpqoacKifmnqa
YnissnrcNwqjkwcwgycsdsycnqqecaqnscqmchfadcsxshsanycqmcnwscbiqopcnwiqjkw
owgbwcwsc fyyspcnwsdcpgpcyqchqiqysxdrcWscmqjapcnig.gfxcfxxcnwfncofy
hsfancnqcbwfihcwghcfapcpgpcaqncfayosicnwsckxfabsycowgbwcga.gnspcwghcnq
zsczqxprcWsceasocnwfncwscoqjxpcwf.scnqcy sfecfckisfncpsfx,cnqcga.san
fapcnqcfhjys,cfapcwgyczifgacfapcnwiqfncosiscnqqcpidcmqicyjbwcfcnfyer
Nwsc iqzxshcqmcwqocwscbqjxpc fyycnwscwqjiycngxxcwschsncBqixsdcfkfga
niqjzxspcwghcfcxgnnxsrcWscbqjxpcnwgaecqmcaqcofdcqmc fyygakcnwshczjncnq
ess cqacofxegakrcWscnjiaspcnqcnwscxsmncowsacwscbfhscnqcnwscbqiasicqm
IjnxfapcYljfiscfapcmsxnchqiscfncsfyscgacnwscpfiecljgsncynissn,cnws
yqhziscxqqecqmcowgbwcyjgnspcwgychqqprcWsc fjyspcfncxfynczsmqiscnws
ogapqocqmcfc qqi-xqqegakcywq cq.sicowgbwcnwscoqipyc_IsmisywhsancZfi_
osisc iganspcgacowgnscxsnnsiyrcQacnwsckxfyycqmcnwscogapqocosiscnoq
mxdgakcgaybig ngqay:c_KgaksicZssi_cfapc_KgaksicFxs_rcFcbjncwfhcofy
st qyspcqacfckisfnczxjscpgywcowgxscasficgncqacfc xfnscxfdcfcyskhsancqm
.sidcxgkwnc xjh- jppgakrcWscsdspcnwgycmqqpcsfiasynxdcmqicyqhscnghscfap
nwsa,cfmnsickxfabgakcofigxdcj cfapcpqoacnwscynissn,cosancganqcnwscywq 
ljgbexdr

Wscofycwjakidcmqi,cstbs ncyqhsczgybjgnycowgbwcwscwfpcfyespcnoqckijpkgak
bjifnsycnqczigakcwgh,cwscwfpcsfnsacaqnwgakcygabsczisfemfyn-nghsrcWscyfn
pqoacfncfacjabq.sispcoqqpsacnfzxscq  qygnscnoqcoqie-kgixycfapcf
hsbwfagbrcFcyxfnnsiaxdckgixcofgnspcqacwghr

“Wqochjbwcgycfc xfnscqmc sfy?”cwscfyespr

“Nwisscwfxm sabs,cygi,”cyfgpcnwsckgixr

“Zigakchscfc xfnscqmc sfy,”cwscyfgp,c“fapcfczqnnxscqmckgaksiczssir”

Wscy qesciqjkwxdcgacqipsicnqczsxgscwgycfgicqmcksangxgndcmqicwgycsanid
wfpczssacmqxxqospczdcfc fjyscqmcnfxercWgycmfbscofycwsfnsprcNqcf  sfi
afnjifxcwsc jywspcwgycbf czfbecqacwgycwsfpcfapc xfanspcwgycsxzqoycqa
nwscnfzxsrcNwschsbwfagbcfapcnwscnoqcoqie-kgixycstfhgaspcwghc qganczd
 qganczsmqiscisyjhgakcnwsgicbqa.siyfngqacgacfcyjzpjspc.qgbsrcNwsckgix
ziqjkwncwghcfc xfnscqmckiqbsi’ycwqnc sfy,cysfyqaspcognwc s  sicfap
.gaskfi,cfcmqiecfapcwgyckgaksiczssircWscfnscwgycmqqpckisspgxdcfapcmqjap
gncyqckqqpcnwfncwschfpscfcaqnscqmcnwscywq chsanfxxdrcOwsacwscwfpcsfnsa
fxxcnwsc sfycwscyg  spcwgyckgaksiczssicfapcyfncmqicyqhscnghscnwgaegak
qmcBqixsd’ycfp.sanjisrcGacwgycghfkgafngqacwsczswsxpcnwsc fgicqmcxq.siy
ofxegakcfxqakcyqhscpfieciqfp;cwscwsfipcBqixsd’yc.qgbscgacpss csasiksngb
kfxxfanigsycfapcyfocfkfgacnwscxssicqmcnwscdqjakcoqhfa’ychqjnwrcNwgy
.gygqachfpscwghcmssxcessaxdcwgycqoac q.sindcqmc jiyscfapcy gignrcWscofy
ngispcqmceaqbegakcfzqjn,cqmc jxxgakcnwscps.gxczdcnwscnfgx,cqmcywgmny
fapcganigkjsyrcWscoqjxpczscnwgind-qascgacAq.shzsircOqjxpcwscas.sicksncf
kqqpcuqz?cOqjxpcwscas.sicwf.scfcwqhscqmcwgycqoa?cWscnwqjkwncwqo
 xsfyfancgncoqjxpczscnqcwf.scfcofihcmgiscnqcygnczdcfapcfckqqpcpgaasicnq
ygncpqoacnqrcWscwfpcofxespcnwscynissnycxqakcsaqjkwcognwcmigsapycfap
ognwckgixyrcWsceasocowfncnwqyscmigsapycosiscoqinw:cwsceasocnwsckgixy
nqqrcSt sigsabscwfpcshzgnnsispcwgycwsfincfkfgayncnwscoqixprcZjncfxx
wq scwfpcaqncxsmncwghrcWscmsxnczsnnsicfmnsicwf.gakcsfnsacnwfacwscwfp
msxnczsmqis,cxsyycosfidcqmcwgycxgms,cxsyyc.faljgywspcgacy gignrcWs
hgkwncdsnczscfzxscnqcysnnxscpqoacgacyqhscyajkcbqiasicfapcxg.scwf  gxd
gmcwscbqjxpcqaxdcbqhscfbiqyycyqhsckqqpcygh xs-hgapspckgixcognwcfcxgnnxs
qmcnwscisfpdr

Wsc fgpcnoq sabscwfxm saadcnqcnwscyxfnnsiaxdckgixcfapcosancqjncqmcnws
ywq cnqczskgacwgycofapsigakcfkfgarcWscosancganqcBf sxcYnissncfapcofxesp
fxqakcnqofipycnwscBgndcWfxxrcNwsacwscnjiaspcganqcPfhscYnissnrcFncnws
bqiasicqmcKsqiks’ycYnissncwschsncnoqcmigsapycqmcwgycfapcynq  spcnq
bqa.siyscognwcnwshrcWscofyckxfpcnwfncwscbqjxpcisyncmiqhcfxxcwgy
ofxegakrcWgycmigsapycfyespcwghcwfpcwscyssacBqixsdcfapcowfncofycnws
xfnsynrcWscis xgspcnwfncwscwfpcy sancnwscpfdcognwcBqixsdrcWgycmigsapy
nfxespc.sidcxgnnxsrcNwsdcxqqespc.fbfanxdcfmnsicyqhscmgkjisycgacnws
biqopcfapcyqhsnghsychfpscfcbigngbfxcishfiercQascyfgpcnwfncwscwfpcyssa
HfbcfacwqjiczsmqiscgacOsynhqisxfapcYnissnrcFncnwgycXsaswfacyfgpcnwfncws
wfpczssacognwcHfbcnwscagkwnczsmqiscgacSkfa’yrcNwscdqjakchfacowqcwfp
yssacHfbcgacOsynhqisxfapcYnissncfyespcofycgncnijscnwfncHfbcwfpcoqacf
zgncq.sicfczgxxgfipchfnbwrcXsaswfacpgpcaqnceaqo:cwscyfgpcnwfncWqxqwfa
wfpcynqqpcnwshcpigaeycgacSkfa’yr

Wscxsmncwgycmigsapycfncfcljfinsicnqcnsacfapcosancj cKsqiks’ycYnissnrcWs
njiaspcnqcnwscxsmncfncnwscBgndcHfiesnycfapcofxespcqacganqcKifmnqa
YnissnrcNwscbiqopcqmckgixycfapcdqjakchsacwfpcnwgaaspcfapcqacwgycofdcj 
nwscynissncwscwsfipchfadckiqj ycfapcbqj xsyczgppgakcqascfaqnwsi
kqqp-agkwnrcWscosancfycmficfycnwscbxqbecqmcnwscBqxxskscqmcYjiksqay:cgn
ofycqacnwscyniqescqmcnsarcWscysncqmmczigyexdcfxqakcnwscaqinwsiacygpscqm
nwscKissacwjiidgakcmqicmsficBqixsdcywqjxpcisnjiacnqqcyqqarcOwsacws
isfbwspcnwscbqiasicqmcHsiigqacYnissncwscnqqecwgycynfapcgacnwscywfpqocqm
fcxfh cfapcziqjkwncqjncqascqmcnwscbgkfisnnsycowgbwcwscwfpcisysi.spcfap
xgncgnrcWscxsfaspcfkfgayncnwscxfh - qyncfapces ncwgyckfvscmgtspcqacnws
 fincmiqhcowgbwcwscst sbnspcnqcysscBqixsdcfapcnwscdqjakcoqhfacisnjiar

Wgychgapczsbfhscfbng.scfkfgarcWscoqapsispcwfpcBqixsdchfafkspcgn
yjbbsyymjxxdrcWscoqapsispcgmcwscwfpcfyespcwsicdsncqicgmcwscoqjxpcxsf.s
gncnqcnwscxfynrcWscyjmmsispcfxxcnwsc fakycfapcnwigxxycqmcwgycmigsap’y
ygnjfngqacfycosxxcfycnwqyscqmcwgycqoarcZjncnwschshqidcqmcBqixsd’y
yxqoxdcis.qx.gakcwsfpcbfxhspcwghcyqhsowfn:cwscofycyjiscBqixsdcoqjxp
 jxxcgncqmmcfxxcigkwnrcFxxcfncqabscnwscgpsfcynijbecwghcnwfnc siwf y
Bqixsdcwfpcyssacwsicwqhsczdcfaqnwsicofdcfapckg.sacwghcnwscyxg rcWgy
sdsycysfibwspcnwscynissn:cnwsiscofycaqcygkacqmcnwshrcDsncgncofycyjisxd
wfxm-fa-wqjicygabscwscwfpcyssacnwscbxqbecqmcnwscBqxxskscqmcYjiksqayr
OqjxpcBqixsdcpqcfcnwgakcxgescnwfn?cWscxgncwgycxfyncbgkfisnnscfapczskfa
nqcyhqescgncasi.qjyxdrcWscynifgaspcwgycsdsycfycsfbwcnifhcynq  spcfncnws
mficbqiasicqmcnwscyljfisrcNwsdchjyncwf.sckqascwqhsczdcfaqnwsicofdrcNws
 f sicqmcwgycbgkfisnnscziqescfapcwscmxjakcgncganqcnwsciqfpcognwcf
bjiysr

YjppsaxdcwscyfocnwshcbqhgakcnqofipycwghrcWscynfinspcognwcpsxgkwncfap,
ess gakcbxqyscnqcwgycxfh - qyn,cnigspcnqcisfpcnwscisyjxncgacnwsgicofxer
Nwsdcosiscofxegakcljgbexd,cnwscdqjakcoqhfacnfegakcljgbecywqincyns y,
owgxscBqixsdces nczsygpscwsicognwcwgycxqakcynigpsrcNwsdcpgpcaqncysshcnq
zscy sfegakrcFacganghfngqacqmcnwscisyjxnc igbespcwghcxgescnwsc qgancqm
fcywfi cgaynijhsanrcWsceasocBqixsdcoqjxpcmfgx;cwsceasocgncofycaqckqr

NwsdcnjiaspcpqoacZfkkqncYnissncfapcwscmqxxqospcnwshcfncqabs,cnfegakcnws
qnwsicmqqn fnwrcOwsacnwsdcynq  spcwscynq  spcnqqrcNwsdcnfxespcmqicfcmso
hqhsanycfapcnwsacnwscdqjakcoqhfacosancpqoacnwscyns ycganqcnwscfisfcqmcf
wqjysrcBqixsdcishfgaspcynfapgakcfncnwscspkscqmcnwsc fnw,cfcxgnnxs
pgynfabscmiqhcnwscmiqancyns yrcYqhschgajnsyc fyysprcNwsacnwscwfxx-pqqi
ofycq saspcyxqoxdcfapcbfjngqjyxdrcFcoqhfacbfhscijaagakcpqoacnwscmiqan
yns ycfapcbqjkwsprcBqixsdcnjiaspcfapcosancnqofipycwsircWgycziqfpcmgkjis
wgpcwsiycmiqhc.gsocmqicfcmsocysbqapycfapcnwsacywscisf  sfispcijaagakcj 
nwscyns yrcNwscpqqicbxqyspcqacwsicfapcBqixsdczskfacnqcofxecyogmnxd
nqofipycYns wsa’ycKissar

XsaswfacwjiigspcqacgacnwscyfhscpgisbngqarcYqhscpiq ycqmcxgkwncifga
msxxrcWscnqqecnwshcfycfcofiagakcfap,ckxfabgakczfbecnqofipycnwscwqjys
owgbwcnwscdqjakcoqhfacwfpcsansispcnqcysscnwfncwscofycaqncqzysi.sp,cws
ifacsfksixdcfbiqyycnwsciqfprcFatgsndcfapcwgycyogmncijachfpscwghc fanr
Wscbfxxspcqjn:

“Wfxxq,cBqixsd!”

Bqixsdcnjiaspcwgycwsfpcnqcysscowqcwfpcbfxxspcwgh,cfapcnwsacbqangajsp
ofxegakcfyczsmqisrcXsaswfacifacfmnsicwgh,cysnnxgakcnwscofnsi iqqmcqa
wgycywqjxpsiycognwcqascwfapr

“Wfxxq,cBqixsd!”cwscbigspcfkfgar

Wscbfhscxs.sxcognwcwgycmigsapcfapcxqqespcessaxdcgacwgycmfbsrcWscbqjxp
ysscaqnwgakcnwsisr

“Osxx?”cwscyfgprc“Pgpcgncbqhscqmm?”

NwsdcwfpcisfbwspcnwscbqiasicqmcSxdc xfbsrcYngxxcognwqjncfayosigak,
Bqixsdcyosi.spcnqcnwscxsmncfapcosancj cnwscygpscynissnrcWgycmsfnjisy
osiscbqh qyspcgacynsiacbfxhrcXsaswfaces ncj cognwcwgycmigsap,czisfnwgak
jasfygxdrcWscofyczfmmxspcfapcfcaqnscqmchsafbsc gsibspcnwiqjkwcwgy
.qgbsr

“Bfa’ncdqjcnsxxcjy?”cwscyfgprc“Pgpcdqjcnidcwsi?”

Bqixsdcwfxnspcfncnwscmgiyncxfh cfapcynfispckighxdczsmqiscwghrcNwsacognw
fckif.scksynjiscwscstnsapspcfcwfapcnqofipycnwscxgkwncfap,cyhgxgak,
q saspcgncyxqoxdcnqcnwsckfvscqmcwgycpgybg xsrcFcyhfxxckqxpcbqgacywqas
gacnwsc fxhr



NWScZQFIPGAKcWQJYS

HiycHqqasdcofycfczjnbwsi’ycpfjkwnsircYwscofycfcoqhfacowqcofycljgnscfzxs
nqcess cnwgakycnqcwsiysxm:cfcpsnsihgaspcoqhfarcYwscwfpchfiigspcwsi
mfnwsi’ycmqishfacfapcq saspcfczjnbwsi’ycywq casficY igakcKfipsayrcZjn
fycyqqacfycwgycmfnwsi-ga-xfocofycpsfpcHicHqqasdczskfacnqckqcnqcnws
ps.gxrcWscpifae,c xjapsispcnwscngxx,cifacwsfpxqakcganqcpsznrcGncofycaq
jyschfegakcwghcnfescnwsc xspks:cwscofycyjiscnqczisfecqjncfkfgacfcmso
pfdycfmnsircZdcmgkwngakcwgycogmscgacnwsc isysabscqmcbjynqhsiycfapczd
zjdgakczfpchsfncwscijgaspcwgyczjygasyyrcQascagkwncwscosancmqicwgycogms
ognwcnwscbxsf.sicfapcywscwfpcnqcyxss cgacfcasgkwzqji’ycwqjysr

Fmnsicnwfncnwsdcxg.spcf finrcYwscosancnqcnwsc igsyncfapckqncf
ys fifngqacmiqhcwghcognwcbfiscqmcnwscbwgxpisarcYwscoqjxpckg.scwgh
asgnwsichqasdcaqicmqqpcaqicwqjys-iqqh;cfapcyqcwscofycqzxgkspcnqcsaxgyn
wghysxmcfycfcywsigmm’ychfarcWscofycfcywfzzdcynqq spcxgnnxscpijaefip
ognwcfcowgnscmfbscfapcfcowgnschqjynfbwscfapcowgnscsdsziqoy,c sabgxxsp
fzq.scwgycxgnnxscsdsy,cowgbwcosisc gae-.sgaspcfapcifo;cfapcfxxcpfdcxqak
wscyfncgacnwsczfgxgmm’yciqqh,cofgngakcnqczsc jncqacfcuqzrcHiycHqqasd,
owqcwfpcnfesacowfncishfgaspcqmcwsichqasdcqjncqmcnwsczjnbwsiczjygasyy
fapcysncj cfczqfipgakcwqjyscgacWfipogbescYnissn,cofycfczgkcgh qygak
oqhfarcWsicwqjyscwfpcfcmxqfngakc q jxfngqachfpscj cqmcnqjigynycmiqh
Xg.si qqxcfapcnwscGyxscqmcHfacfap,cqbbfygqafxxd,c_fingynsy_cmiqhcnws
hjygb-wfxxyrcGnycisygpsanc q jxfngqacofychfpscj cqmcbxsieycmiqhcnws
bgndrcYwsckq.siaspcwsicwqjyscbjaagakxdcfapcmgihxd,ceasocowsacnqckg.s
bispgn,cowsacnqczscynsiacfapcowsacnqcxsncnwgakyc fyyrcFxxcnwscisygpsan
dqjakchsacy qescqmcwsicfyc_NwscHfpfh_r

HiycHqqasd’ycdqjakchsac fgpcmgmnssacywgxxgakycfcossecmqiczqfipcfap
xqpkgakyc(zssicqicynqjncfncpgaasicstbxjpsp)rcNwsdcywfispcgacbqhhqa
nfynsycfapcqbbj fngqaycfapcmqicnwgycisfyqacnwsdcosisc.sidcbwjhhdcognw
qascfaqnwsircNwsdcpgybjyyspcognwcqascfaqnwsicnwscbwfabsycqmcmf.qjignsy
fapcqjnygpsiyrcUfbecHqqasd,cnwscHfpfh’ycyqa,cowqcofycbxsiecnqcf
bqhhgyygqacfksancgacMxssncYnissn,cwfpcnwscis jnfngqacqmczsgakcfcwfip
bfysrcWscofycmqapcqmcjygakcyqxpgsiy’cqzybsagngsy:cjyjfxxdcwscbfhscwqhs
gacnwscyhfxxcwqjiyrcOwsacwschsncwgycmigsapycwscwfpcfxofdycfckqqpcqascnq
nsxxcnwshcfapcwscofycfxofdycyjiscnqczscqacnqcfckqqpcnwgak—nwfncgycnq
yfd,cfcxgesxdcwqiyscqicfcxgesxdc_fingyns_rcWscofycfxyqcwfapdcognwcnws
hgnycfapcyfakcbqhgbcyqakyrcQacYjapfdcagkwnycnwsiscoqjxpcqmnsaczscf
isjagqacgacHiycHqqasd’ycmiqancpifogak-iqqhrcNwschjygb-wfxxc_fingynsy_
oqjxpcqzxgks;cfapcYwsigpfac xfdspcofxnvsycfapc qxefycfapc.fh sp
fbbqh faghsanyrc qxxdcHqqasd,cnwscHfpfh’ycpfjkwnsi,coqjxpcfxyqcygakr
Ywscyfak:

ccccc_G’hcfcrrrcafjkwndckgixr
cccccccccDqjcasspa’ncywfh:
cccccccccDqjceaqocGcfhr_

 qxxdcofycfcyxghckgixcqmcagasnssa;cywscwfpcxgkwncyqmncwfgicfapcfcyhfxx
mjxxchqjnwrcWsicsdsy,cowgbwcosisckisdcognwcfcywfpscqmckissacnwiqjkw
nwsh,cwfpcfcwfzgncqmckxfabgakcj ofipycowsacywscy qescognwcfadqas,cowgbw
hfpscwsicxqqecxgescfcxgnnxsc si.siyschfpqaafrcHiycHqqasdcwfpcmgiyncysan
wsicpfjkwnsicnqczscfcnd gyncgacfcbqia-mfbnqi’ycqmmgbsczjn,cfycf
pgyis jnfzxscywsigmm’ychfacjyspcnqcbqhscs.sidcqnwsicpfdcnqcnwscqmmgbs,
fyegakcnqczscfxxqospcnqcyfdcfcoqipcnqcwgycpfjkwnsi,cywscwfpcnfesacwsi
pfjkwnsicwqhscfkfgacfapcysncwsicnqcpqcwqjysoqiercFyc qxxdcofyc.sid
xg.sxdcnwscgansangqacofycnqckg.scwsicnwscijacqmcnwscdqjakchsarcZsygpsy,
dqjakchsacxgescnqcmssxcnwfncnwsiscgycfcdqjakcoqhfacaqnc.sidcmficfofdr
 qxxd,cqmcbqjiys,cmxginspcognwcnwscdqjakchsaczjncHiycHqqasd,cowqcofycf
ywisopcujpks,ceasocnwfncnwscdqjakchsacosiscqaxdc fyygakcnwscnghscfofd:
aqascqmcnwshchsfanczjygasyyrcNwgakycosancqacyqcmqicfcxqakcnghscfapcHiy
Hqqasdczskfacnqcnwgaecqmcysapgakc qxxdczfbecnqcnd soigngakcowsacyws
aqngbspcnwfncyqhsnwgakcofyckqgakcqaczsnossac qxxdcfapcqascqmcnwscdqjak
hsarcYwscofnbwspcnwsc fgicfapces ncwsicqoacbqjaysxr

 qxxdceasocnwfncywscofyczsgakcofnbwsp,czjncyngxxcwsichqnwsi’y
 siygynsancygxsabscbqjxpcaqnczschgyjapsiynqqprcNwsiscwfpczssacaqcq sa
bqh xgbgndczsnossachqnwsicfapcpfjkwnsi,caqcq sacjapsiynfapgakczjn,
nwqjkwc sq xscgacnwscwqjysczskfacnqcnfxecqmcnwscfmmfgi,cyngxxcHiy
Hqqasdcpgpcaqncgansi.sasrc qxxdczskfacnqckiqocfcxgnnxscynifakscgacwsi
hfaasicfapcnwscdqjakchfacofycs.gpsanxdc sinjizsprcFncxfyn,cowsacyws
ujpkspcgncnqczscnwscigkwnchqhsan,cHiycHqqasdcgansi.sasprcYwscpsfxncognw
hqifxc iqzxshycfycfcbxsf.sicpsfxycognwchsfn:cfapcgacnwgycbfyscywscwfp
hfpscj cwsichgapr

GncofycfczigkwncYjapfdchqiagakcqmcsfixdcyjhhsi,c iqhgygakcwsfn,czjn
ognwcfcmisywczissvsczxqogakrcFxxcnwscogapqoycqmcnwsczqfipgakcwqjyscosis
q sacfapcnwscxfbscbjinfgayczfxxqqaspcksanxdcnqofipycnwscynissnczsasfnw
nwscifgyspcyfywsyrcNwsczsxmidcqmcKsqiks’ycBwjibwcysancqjncbqaynfan
 sfxycfapcoqiywg  siy,cygakxdcqicgackiqj y,cnif.siyspcnwscxgnnxscbgibjy
zsmqiscnwscbwjibw,cis.sfxgakcnwsgic ji qysczdcnwsgicysxm-bqanfgasp
pshsfaqjicaqcxsyycnwfaczdcnwscxgnnxsc.qxjhsycgacnwsgickxq.spcwfapyr
Zisfemfyncofycq.sicgacnwsczqfipgakcwqjyscfapcnwscnfzxscqmcnws
zisfemfyn-iqqhcofycbq.sispcognwc xfnsycqacowgbwcxfdcdsxxqocynisfeycqm
skkycognwchqiysxycqmczfbqa-mfncfapczfbqa-igaprcHiycHqqasdcyfncgacnws
ynifocfih-bwfgicfapcofnbwspcnwscysi.fancHfidcishq.scnwsczisfemfyn
nwgakyrcYwschfpscHfidcbqxxsbncnwscbijynycfapc gsbsycqmcziqesaczisfpcnq
wsx cnqchfescNjsypfd’yczisfp- jppgakrcOwsacnwscnfzxscofycbxsfisp,cnws
ziqesaczisfpcbqxxsbnsp,cnwscyjkficfapczjnnsicyfmscjapsicxqbecfapcesd,
ywsczskfacnqcisbqaynijbncnwscgansi.gsocowgbwcywscwfpcwfpcnwscagkwn
zsmqiscognwc qxxdrcNwgakycosiscfycywscwfpcyjy sbnsp:cywscwfpczssacmifae
gacwsicljsyngqaycfapc qxxdcwfpczssacmifaecgacwsicfayosiyrcZqnwcwfpczssa
yqhsowfncfoeofip,cqmcbqjiysrcYwscwfpczssachfpscfoeofipczdcwsicaqn
ogywgakcnqcisbsg.scnwscasoycgacnqqcbf.fxgsicfcmfywgqacqicnqcysshcnq
wf.scbqaag.spcfapc qxxdcwfpczssachfpscfoeofipcaqnchsisxdczsbfjys
fxxjygqaycqmcnwfncegapcfxofdychfpscwsicfoeofipczjncfxyqczsbfjyscywscpgp
aqncogywcgncnqczscnwqjkwncnwfncgacwsicogyscgaaqbsabscywscwfpcpg.gasp
nwscgansangqaczswgapcwsichqnwsi’ycnqxsifabsr

HiycHqqasdckxfabspcgayngabng.sxdcfncnwscxgnnxsckgxncbxqbecqacnws
hfansx gsbscfycyqqacfycywscwfpczsbqhscfofiscnwiqjkwcwsicis.sidcnwfncnws
zsxxycqmcKsqiks’ycBwjibwcwfpcynq  spcigakgakrcGncofycys.sanssachgajnsy
 fyncsxs.sa:cywscoqjxpcwf.scxqnycqmcnghscnqcwf.scnwschfnnsicqjncognwcHi
Pqifacfapcnwsacbfnbwcywqincnosx.scfncHfixzqiqjkwcYnissnrcYwscofycyjis
ywscoqjxpcogarcNqczskgacognwcywscwfpcfxxcnwscosgkwncqmcyqbgfxcq gagqa
qacwsicygps:cywscofycfacqjnifkspchqnwsircYwscwfpcfxxqospcwghcnqcxg.s
zsasfnwcwsiciqqm,cfyyjhgakcnwfncwscofycfchfacqmcwqaqji,cfapcwscwfp
ygh xdcfzjyspcwsicwqy gnfxgndrcWscofycnwgind-mqjicqicnwgind-mg.scdsfiy
qmcfks,cyqcnwfncdqjnwcbqjxpcaqnczsc xsfpspcfycwgycstbjys;caqicbqjxp
gkaqifabsczscwgycstbjyscygabscwscofycfchfacowqcwfpcyssacyqhsnwgakcqm
nwscoqixprcWscwfpcygh xdcnfesacfp.fanfkscqmc qxxd’ycdqjnwcfap
gast sigsabs:cnwfncofycs.gpsanrcNwscljsyngqacofy:cOwfncis fifngqacoqjxp
wschfes?

Nwsischjynczscis fifngqachfpscgacyjbwcbfysyrcGncgycfxxc.sidcosxxcmqi
nwschfa:cwscbfackqcwgycofdycfycgmcaqnwgakcwfpcwf  sasp,cwf.gakcwfpcwgy
hqhsancqmc xsfyjis,czjncnwsckgixcwfycnqczsficnwsczijanrcYqhschqnwsiy
oqjxpczscbqansancnqc fnbwcj cyjbwcfacfmmfgicmqicfcyjhcqmchqasd;cywscwfp
eaqoacbfysycqmcgnrcZjncywscoqjxpcaqncpqcyqrcMqicwsicqaxdcqascis fifngqa
bqjxpchfescj cmqicnwscxqyycqmcwsicpfjkwnsi’ycwqaqji:chfiigfksr

YwscbqjanspcfxxcwsicbfipycfkfgaczsmqiscysapgakcHfidcj cnqcHicPqifa’y
iqqhcnqcyfdcnwfncywscogywspcnqcy sfecognwcwghrcYwscmsxncyjiscywscoqjxp
ogarcWscofycfcysigqjycdqjakchfa,caqncifegywcqicxqjp-.qgbspcxgescnws
qnwsiyrcGmcgncwfpczssacHicYwsigpfacqicHicHsfpscqicZfanfhcXdqaycwsicnfye
oqjxpcwf.sczssachjbwcwfipsircYwscpgpcaqncnwgaecwscoqjxpcmfbsc jzxgbgndr
Fxxcnwscxqpksiycgacnwscwqjysceasocyqhsnwgakcqmcnwscfmmfgi;cpsnfgxycwfp
zssacga.sanspczdcyqhsrcZsygpsy,cwscwfpczssacsh xqdspcmqicnwginssacdsfiy
gacfckisfncBfnwqxgbcogas-hsibwfan’ycqmmgbscfapc jzxgbgndcoqjxpchsfacmqi
wgh,c siwf y,cnwscxqyycqmcwgycuqzrcOwsisfycgmcwscfkisspcfxxchgkwnczs
osxxrcYwsceasocwscwfpcfckqqpcybisocmqicqascnwgakcfapcywscyjy sbnspcws
wfpcfczgncqmcynjmmc jnczdr

Asfixdcnwscwfxm-wqji!cYwscynqqpcj cfapcyji.sdspcwsiysxmcgacnws
 gsi-kxfyyrcNwscpsbgyg.scst isyygqacqmcwsickisfncmxqigpcmfbscyfngymgsp
wsicfapcywscnwqjkwncqmcyqhschqnwsiycywsceasocowqcbqjxpcaqncksncnwsgi
pfjkwnsiycqmmcnwsgicwfapyr

HicPqifacofyc.sidcfatgqjycgapsspcnwgycYjapfdchqiagakrcWscwfpchfpscnoq
fnnsh nycnqcywf.sczjncwgycwfapcwfpczssacyqcjaynsfpdcnwfncwscwfpczssa
qzxgkspcnqcpsygynrcNwisscpfdy’cisppgywczsfipcmigakspcwgycufoycfapcs.sid
noqcqicnwisschgajnsycfchgynckfnwsispcqacwgyckxfyysycyqcnwfncwscwfpcnq
nfescnwshcqmmcfapc qxgywcnwshcognwcwgyc qbesn-wfapesibwgsmrcNws
isbqxxsbngqacqmcwgycbqamsyygqacqmcnwscagkwnczsmqiscofycfcbfjyscqmcfbjns
 fgacnqcwgh;cnwsc igsyncwfpcpifoacqjncs.sidcigpgbjxqjycpsnfgxcqmcnws
fmmfgicfapcgacnwscsapcwfpcyqchfkagmgspcwgycygacnwfncwscofycfxhqyn
nwfaemjxcfnczsgakcfmmqipspcfcxqq wqxscqmcis fifngqarcNwscwfihcofycpqasr
Owfncbqjxpcwscpqcaqoczjnchfiidcwsicqicijacfofd?cWscbqjxpcaqnczifvsacgn
qjnrcNwscfmmfgicoqjxpczscyjiscnqczscnfxespcqmcfapcwgycsh xqdsicoqjxpczs
bsinfgacnqcwsficqmcgnrcPjzxgacgycyjbwcfcyhfxxcbgnd:cs.sidqasceaqoy
s.sidqascsxys’yczjygasyyrcWscmsxncwgycwsfincxsf cofihxdcgacwgycnwiqfn
fycwscwsfipcgacwgycstbgnspcghfkgafngqacqxpcHicXsqafipcbfxxgakcqjncga
wgycify gakc.qgbs:c“YsapcHicPqifacwsis,c xsfysr”

Fxxcwgycxqakcdsfiycqmcysi.gbsckqascmqicaqnwgak!cFxxcwgycgapjynidcfap
pgxgksabscnwiqoacfofd!cFycfcdqjakchfacwscwfpcyqoacwgycogxpcqfny,cqm
bqjiys;cwscwfpczqfynspcqmcwgycmiss-nwgaegakcfapcpsagspcnwscstgynsabscqm
Kqpcnqcwgycbqh fagqaycgac jzxgb-wqjysyrcZjncnwfncofycfxxc fyyspcfap
pqascognwcrrrcasfixdrcWscyngxxczqjkwncfcbq dcqmc_Isdaqxpy’ycAsoy f si_
s.sidcosseczjncwscfnnsapspcnqcwgycisxgkgqjycpjngsycfapcmqicagas-nsanwy
qmcnwscdsficxg.spcfciskjxficxgmsrcWscwfpchqasdcsaqjkwcnqcysnnxscpqoa
qa;cgncofycaqncnwfnrcZjncnwscmfhgxdcoqjxpcxqqecpqoacqacwsircMgiyncqm
fxxcnwsiscofycwsicpgyis jnfzxscmfnwsicfapcnwsacwsichqnwsi’yczqfipgak
wqjyscofyczskgaagakcnqcksncfcbsinfgacmfhsrcWscwfpcfcaqngqacnwfncwscofy
zsgakcwfprcWscbqjxpcghfkgascwgycmigsapycnfxegakcqmcnwscfmmfgicfap
xfjkwgakrcYwsc_ofy_cfcxgnnxsc.jxkfi;cyqhsnghsycywscyfgpc“Gcyssa”cfap
“GmcGcwfp’.sceaqoar”cZjncowfncoqjxpckifhhfichfnnsicgmcwscisfxxdcxq.sp
wsi?cWscbqjxpcaqnchfescj cwgychgapcowsnwsicnqcxgescwsicqicpsy gyscwsi
mqicowfncywscwfpcpqasrcQmcbqjiyscwscwfpcpqascgncnqqrcWgycgayngabncjiksp
wghcnqcishfgacmiss,caqncnqchfiidrcQabscdqjcfischfiigspcdqjcfiscpqas
mqi,cgncyfgpr

Owgxscwscofycygnngakcwsx xsyyxdcqacnwscygpscqmcnwsczspcgacywgincfap
niqjysiycywscnf  spcxgkwnxdcfncwgycpqqicfapcsansisprcYwscnqxpcwghcfxx,
nwfncywscwfpchfpscfcbxsfaczisfyncqmcgncnqcwsichqnwsicfapcnwfncwsi
hqnwsicoqjxpcy sfecognwcwghcnwfnchqiagakrcYwscbigspcfapcnwisocwsicfihy
iqjapcwgycasbe,cyfdgak:

“QcZqz!cZqz!cOwfncfhcGcnqcpq?cOwfncfhcGcnqcpqcfncfxx?”

Ywscoqjxpc jncfacsapcnqcwsiysxm,cywscyfgpr

Wscbqhmqinspcwsicmsszxd,cnsxxgakcwsicaqncnqcbid,cnwfncgncoqjxpczscfxx
igkwn,cas.sicmsfircWscmsxncfkfgayncwgycywgincnwscfkgnfngqacqmcwsi
zqyqhr

Gncofycaqncfxnqksnwsicwgycmfjxncnwfncgncwfpcwf  sasprcWscishshzsisp
osxx,cognwcnwscbjigqjyc fngsanchshqidcqmcnwscbsxgzfns,cnwscmgiyncbfyjfx
bfisyysycwsicpisyy,cwsiczisfnw,cwsicmgaksiycwfpckg.sacwghrcNwsacxfns
qascagkwncfycwscofycjapisyygakcmqiczspcywscwfpcnf  spcfncwgycpqqi,
nghgpxdrcYwscofanspcnqcisxgkwncwsicbfapxscfncwgycmqicwsiycwfpczssa
zxqoacqjnczdcfckjynrcGncofycwsiczfnwcagkwnrcYwscoqiscfcxqqyscq sa
bqhzgak-ufbesncqmc iganspcmxfaasxrcWsicowgnscgayns cywqascgacnws
q sagakcqmcwsicmjiidcyxg  siycfapcnwsczxqqpckxqospcofihxdczswgapcwsi
 simjhspcyegarcMiqhcwsicwfapycfapcoigynycnqqcfycywscxgncfapcynsfpgsp
wsicbfapxscfcmfganc simjhscfiqysr

Qacagkwnycowsacwscbfhscgac.sidcxfnscgncofycywscowqcofihspcj cwgy
pgaasircWscybfibsxdceasocowfncwscofycsfngak,cmssxgakcwsiczsygpscwgh
fxqas,cfncagkwn,cgacnwscyxss gakcwqjysrcFapcwsicnwqjkwnmjxasyy!cGmcnws
agkwncofycfadofdcbqxpcqicosncqicogapdcnwsiscofycyjiscnqczscfcxgnnxs
njhzxsicqmc jabwcisfpdcmqicwghrc siwf ycnwsdcbqjxpczscwf  d
nqksnwsirrrr

Nwsdcjyspcnqckqcj ynfgiycnqksnwsicqacng nqs,csfbwcognwcfcbfapxs,cfapcqa
nwscnwgipcxfapgakcstbwfakscisxjbnfanckqqp-agkwnyrcNwsdcjyspcnqcegyyrcWs
ishshzsispcosxxcwsicsdsy,cnwscnqjbwcqmcwsicwfapcfapcwgycpsxgigjhrrrr

Zjncpsxgigjhc fyysyrcWscsbwqspcwsic wifys,cf  xdgakcgncnqcwghysxm:
_“OwfncfhcGcnqcpq?”_cNwscgayngabncqmcnwscbsxgzfnscofiaspcwghcnqcwqxp
zfbercZjncnwscygacofycnwsis;cs.sacwgycysayscqmcwqaqjicnqxpcwghcnwfn
is fifngqachjynczschfpscmqicyjbwcfcygar

OwgxscwscofycygnngakcognwcwsicqacnwscygpscqmcnwsczspcHfidcbfhscnqcnws
pqqicfapcyfgpcnwfncnwschgyyjycofanspcnqcysscwghcgacnwsc fixqjircWs
ynqqpcj cnqc jncqacwgycbqfncfapcofgynbqfn,chqiscwsx xsyycnwfacs.sir
Owsacwscofycpisyyspcwscosancq.sicnqcwsicnqcbqhmqincwsircGncoqjxpczscfxx
igkwn,cas.sicmsfircWscxsmncwsicbidgakcqacnwsczspcfapchqfagakcyqmnxd:
_“QchdcKqp!”_

Kqgakcpqoacnwscynfgiycwgyckxfyysyczsbfhscyqcpghhspcognwchqgynjiscnwfn
wscwfpcnqcnfescnwshcqmmcfapc qxgywcnwshrcWscxqakspcnqcfybsapcnwiqjkw
nwsciqqmcfapcmxdcfofdcnqcfaqnwsicbqjanidcowsiscwscoqjxpcas.sicwsfi
fkfgacqmcwgycniqjzxs,cfapcdsncfcmqibsc jywspcwghcpqoaynfgiycyns czd
yns rcNwscgh xfbfzxscmfbsycqmcwgycsh xqdsicfapcqmcnwscHfpfhcynfispcj qa
wgycpgybqhmgnjisrcQacnwscxfyncmxgkwncqmcynfgiycwsc fyyspcUfbecHqqasd
owqcofycbqhgakcj cmiqhcnwsc fanidcajiygakcnoqczqnnxsycqmc_Zfyy_rcNwsd
yfxjnspcbqxpxd;cfapcnwscxq.si’ycsdsycisynspcmqicfcysbqapcqicnoqcqacf
nwgbeczjxxpqkcmfbscfapcfc fgicqmcnwgbecywqincfihyrcOwsacwscisfbwspcnws
mqqncqmcnwscynfgibfyscwsckxfabspcj cfapcyfocUfbeciskfipgakcwghcmiqhcnws
pqqicqmcnwscisnjia-iqqhr

Yjppsaxdcwscishshzsispcnwscagkwncowsacqascqmcnwschjygb-wfxxc_fingynsy_,
fcxgnnxsczxqapcXqapqasi,cwfpchfpscfcifnwsicmisscfxxjygqacnqc qxxdrcNws
isjagqacwfpczssacfxhqyncziqesacj cqacfbbqjancqmcUfbe’yc.gqxsabsr
S.sidqascnigspcnqcljgsncwghrcNwschjygb-wfxxc_fingyns_,cfcxgnnxsc fxsi
nwfacjyjfx,ces ncyhgxgakcfapcyfdgakcnwfncnwsiscofycaqcwfihchsfan:czjn
Ufbeces ncywqjngakcfncwghcnwfncgmcfadcmsxxqocnigspcnwfncyqincqmcfckfhs
qacognwc_wgy_cygynsicws’pczxqqpdcosxxc jncwgycnssnwcpqoacwgycnwiqfn,cyq
wscoqjxpr



 qxxdcyfncmqicfcxgnnxscnghscqacnwscygpscqmcnwsczsp,cbidgakrcNwsacyws
pigspcwsicsdsycfapcosancq.sicnqcnwscxqqegak-kxfyyrcYwscpg  spcnwscsap
qmcnwscnqosxcgacnwscofnsi-ujkcfapcismisywspcwsicsdsycognwcnwscbqqx
ofnsircYwscxqqespcfncwsiysxmcgac iqmgxscfapcisfpujynspcfcwfgi gacfzq.s
wsicsfircNwsacywscosanczfbecnqcnwsczspcfkfgacfapcyfncfncnwscmqqnrcYws
iskfipspcnwsc gxxqoycmqicfcxqakcnghscfapcnwscygkwncqmcnwshcfofesaspcga
wsichgapcysbisncfhgfzxschshqigsyrcYwscisynspcnwscaf scqmcwsicasbe
fkfgayncnwscbqqxcgiqaczsp-ifgxcfapcmsxxcganqcfcis.sidrcNwsiscofycaq
xqaksicfadc sinjizfngqac.gygzxscqacwsicmfbsr

Ywscofgnspcqac fngsanxd,cfxhqyncbwssimjxxd,cognwqjncfxfih,cwsichshqigsy
kifpjfxxdckg.gakc xfbscnqcwq sycfapc.gygqaycqmcnwscmjnjisrcWsicwq sy
fapc.gygqaycosiscyqcganigbfnscnwfncywscaqcxqaksicyfocnwscowgnsc gxxqoy
qacowgbwcwsickfvscofycmgtspcqicishshzsispcnwfncywscofycofgngakcmqi
fadnwgakr

FncxfyncywscwsfipcwsichqnwsicbfxxgakrcYwscynfinspcnqcwsicmssncfapcifa
nqcnwsczfagynsiyr

“ qxxd!c qxxd!”

“Dsy,chfhhf?”

“Bqhscpqoa,cpsfircHicPqifacofanycnqcy sfecnqcdqjr”

Nwsacywscishshzsispcowfncywscwfpczssacofgngakcmqir



FcXGNNXScBXQJP

SgkwncdsfiyczsmqiscwscwfpcyssacwgycmigsapcqmmcfncnwscAqinwcOfxxcfap
ogywspcwghckqpy ssprcKfxxfwsicwfpckqncqarcDqjcbqjxpcnsxxcnwfncfncqabs
zdcwgycnif.sxxspcfgi,cwgycosxx-bjncnosspcyjgn,cfapcmsfixsyycfbbsanrcMso
msxxqoycwfpcnfxsanycxgescwgycfapcmsosicyngxxcbqjxpcishfgacjay qgxspczd
yjbwcyjbbsyyrcKfxxfwsi’ycwsfincofycgacnwscigkwnc xfbscfapcwscwfp
psysi.spcnqcogarcGncofycyqhsnwgakcnqcwf.scfcmigsapcxgescnwfnr

XgnnxscBwfapxsi’ycnwqjkwnycs.sicygabscxjabw-nghscwfpczssacqmcwgy
hssngakcognwcKfxxfwsi,cqmcKfxxfwsi’ycga.gnfngqacfapcqmcnwsckisfncbgnd
XqapqacowsiscKfxxfwsicxg.sprcWscofycbfxxspcXgnnxscBwfapxsiczsbfjys,
nwqjkwcwscofyczjncyxgkwnxdcjapsicnwscf.sifkscynfnjis,cwsckf.scqascnws
gpsfcqmczsgakcfcxgnnxschfarcWgycwfapycosiscowgnscfapcyhfxx,cwgycmifhs
ofycmifkgxs,cwgyc.qgbscofycljgsncfapcwgychfaasiycosiscismgasprcWscnqqe
nwsckisfnsyncbfiscqmcwgycmfgicygxesacwfgicfapchqjynfbwscfapcjysp
 simjhscpgybissnxdcqacwgycwfapesibwgsmrcNwscwfxm-hqqaycqmcwgycafgxy
osisc simsbncfapcowsacwscyhgxspcdqjcbfjkwncfckxgh yscqmcfciqocqm
bwgxpgywcowgnscnssnwr

FycwscyfncfncwgycpsyecgacnwscEgak’ycGaaycwscnwqjkwncowfncbwfaksycnwqys
sgkwncdsfiycwfpcziqjkwnrcNwscmigsapcowqhcwscwfpceaqoacjapsicfcywfzzd
fapcasbsyygnqjyckjgyscwfpczsbqhscfczigxxgfancmgkjiscqacnwscXqapqa
 isyyrcWscnjiaspcqmnsacmiqhcwgycngisyqhscoigngakcnqckfvscqjncqmcnws
qmmgbscogapqorcNwsckxqocqmcfcxfnscfjnjhacyjaysncbq.sispcnwsckifyyc xqny
fapcofxeyrcGncbfyncfcywqosicqmcegapxdckqxpsacpjyncqacnwscjangpdcajiysy
fapcpsbis gncqxpchsacowqcpiqoyspcqacnwsczsabwsy;cgncmxgbesispcj qacfxx
nwschq.gakcmgkjisy—qacnwscbwgxpisacowqcifacybisfhgakcfxqakcnwsckif.sx
 fnwycfapcqacs.sidqascowqc fyyspcnwiqjkwcnwsckfipsayrcWscofnbwspcnws
ybsascfapcnwqjkwncqmcxgms;cfapc(fycfxofdycwf  saspcowsacwscnwqjkwncqm
xgms)cwsczsbfhscyfprcFcksanxschsxfabwqxdcnqqec qyysyygqacqmcwghrcWs
msxncwqocjysxsyycgncofycnqcynijkkxscfkfgayncmqinjas,cnwgyczsgakcnws
zjipsacqmcogypqhcowgbwcnwscfksycwfpczsljsfnwspcnqcwghr

Wscishshzsispcnwsczqqeycqmc qsnidcj qacwgycywsx.sycfncwqhsrcWscwfp
zqjkwncnwshcgacwgyczfbwsxqicpfdycfapchfadcfacs.sagak,cfycwscyfncgacnws
xgnnxsciqqhcqmmcnwscwfxx,cwscwfpczssacnsh nspcnqcnfescqascpqoacmiqhcnws
zqqeywsxmcfapcisfpcqjncyqhsnwgakcnqcwgycogmsrcZjncywdasyycwfpcfxofdy
wsxpcwghczfbe;cfapcyqcnwsczqqeycwfpcishfgaspcqacnwsgicywsx.syrcFncnghsy
wscis sfnspcxgasycnqcwghysxmcfapcnwgycbqayqxspcwghr

Owsacwgycwqjicwfpcynijbecwscynqqpcj cfapcnqqecxsf.scqmcwgycpsyecfapcqm
wgycmsxxqo-bxsieyc jabngxgqjyxdrcWscshsikspcmiqhcjapsicnwscmsjpfxcfibw
qmcnwscEgak’ycGaay,cfcasfnchqpsyncmgkjis,cfapcofxespcyogmnxdcpqoa
WsaigsnnfcYnissnrcNwsckqxpsacyjaysncofycofagakcfapcnwscfgicwfpckiqoa
ywfi rcFcwqipscqmckighdcbwgxpisac q jxfnspcnwscynissnrcNwsdcynqqpcqi
ifacgacnwsciqfpofdcqicbifoxspcj cnwscyns yczsmqiscnwsckf gakcpqqiycqi
yljfnnspcxgeschgbscj qacnwscnwisywqxpyrcXgnnxscBwfapxsickf.scnwshcaq
nwqjkwnrcWsc gbespcwgycofdcpsmnxdcnwiqjkwcfxxcnwfnchgajnsc.sihga-xges
xgmscfapcjapsicnwscywfpqocqmcnwsckfjancy sbnifxchfaygqaycgacowgbwcnws
qxpcaqzgxgndcqmcPjzxgacwfpciqdynsisprcAqchshqidcqmcnwsc fyncnqjbwsp
wgh,cmqicwgychgapcofycmjxxcqmcfc isysancuqdr

Wscwfpcas.siczssacgacBqixsyy’yczjncwsceasocnwsc.fxjscqmcnwscafhsrcWs
easocnwfnc sq xscosancnwsiscfmnsicnwscnwsfniscnqcsfncqdynsiycfapcpigae
xgljsjiy;cfapcwscwfpcwsfipcnwfncnwscofgnsiycnwsiscy qescMisabwcfap
KsihfarcOfxegakcyogmnxdczdcfncagkwncwscwfpcyssacbfzycpifoacj czsmqis
nwscpqqicfapcigbwxdcpisyyspcxfpgsy,csybqinspczdcbf.fxgsiy,cfxgkwncfap
sansicljgbexdrcNwsdcoqiscaqgydcpisyysycfapchfadcoif yrcNwsgicmfbsycosis
 qopsispcfapcnwsdcbfjkwncj cnwsgicpisyysy,cowsacnwsdcnqjbwspcsfinw,
xgescfxfihspcFnfxfanfyrcWscwfpcfxofdyc fyyspcognwqjncnjiagakcwgycwsfp
nqcxqqercGncofycwgycwfzgncnqcofxecyogmnxdcgacnwscynissncs.saczdcpfdcfap
owsas.sicwscmqjapcwghysxmcgacnwscbgndcxfnscfncagkwncwscwjiigspcqacwgy
ofdcf  iswsayg.sxdcfapcstbgnspxdrcYqhsnghsy,cwqos.si,cwscbqjinspcnws
bfjysycqmcwgycmsfircWscbwqyscnwscpfiesyncfapcafiiqosyncynissnycfap,cfy
wscofxespczqxpxdcmqiofip,cnwscygxsabscnwfncofycy isfpcfzqjncwgy
mqqnyns ycniqjzxspcwgh,cnwscofapsigakcygxsancmgkjisycniqjzxspcwgh;cfap
fncnghsycfcyqjapcqmcxqocmjkgng.scxfjkwnsichfpscwghcnishzxscxgescfcxsfmr

WscnjiaspcnqcnwscigkwncnqofipycBf sxcYnissnrcGkafngjycKfxxfwsicqacnws
Xqapqac isyy!cOwqcoqjxpcwf.scnwqjkwncgnc qyygzxscsgkwncdsfiyczsmqis?
Yngxx,caqocnwfncwscis.gsospcnwsc fyn,cXgnnxscBwfapxsicbqjxpcishshzsi
hfadcygkaycqmcmjnjisckisfnasyycgacwgycmigsaprc sq xscjyspcnqcyfdcnwfn
GkafngjycKfxxfwsicofycogxprcQmcbqjiys,cwscpgpchgtcognwcfcifegywcysncqm
msxxqoycfncnwfncnghs,cpifaecmissxdcfapczqiiqospchqasdcqacfxxcygpsyrcGa
nwscsapcwscwfpckqnchgtspcj cgacyqhscywfpdcfmmfgi,cyqhschqasd
nifayfbngqa:cfncxsfyn,cnwfncofycqasc.siygqacqmcwgycmxgkwnrcZjncaqzqpd
psagspcwghcnfxsanrcNwsiscofycfxofdycfcbsinfgacrrrcyqhsnwgakcgacGkafngjy
Kfxxfwsicnwfncgh isyyspcdqjcgacy gnscqmcdqjiysxmrcS.sacowsacwscofycqjn
fncsxzqoycfapcfncwgycogny’csapcmqichqasdcwsces ncj cfczqxpcmfbsrcXgnnxs
Bwfapxsicishshzsispc(fapcnwscishshzifabscziqjkwncfcyxgkwncmxjywcqm
 igpscnqcwgycbwsse)cqascqmcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi’ycyfdgakycowsacwscofycgacf
ngkwncbqiasi:

“Wfxmcnghscaqo,czqdy,”cwscjyspcnqcyfdcxgkwn-wsfinspxdrc“Owsis’ychd
bqaygpsigakcbf ?”

NwfncofycGkafngjycKfxxfwsicfxxcqjn;cfap,cpfhacgn,cdqjcbqjxpa’nczjn
fphgiscwghcmqicgnr

XgnnxscBwfapxsicljgbesaspcwgyc fbsrcMqicnwscmgiyncnghscgacwgycxgmscws
msxncwghysxmcyj sigqicnqcnwsc sq xscwsc fyysprcMqicnwscmgiyncnghscwgy
yqjxcis.qxnspcfkfgayncnwscpjxxcgasxskfabscqmcBf sxcYnissnrcNwsiscofycaq
pqjzncfzqjncgn:cgmcdqjcofanspcnqcyjbbsspcdqjcwfpcnqckqcfofdrcDqjcbqjxp
pqcaqnwgakcgacPjzxgarcFycwscbiqyyspcKifnnfacZigpkscwscxqqespcpqoacnws
ig.sicnqofipycnwscxqosicljfdycfapc gngspcnwsc qqicynjanspcwqjysyrcNwsd
ysshspcnqcwghcfczfapcqmcnifh y,cwjppxspcnqksnwsicfxqakcnwscig.sizfaey,
nwsgicqxpcbqfnycbq.sispcognwcpjyncfapcyqqn,cynj smgspczdcnwsc faqifhf
qmcyjaysncfapcofgngakcmqicnwscmgiyncbwgxxcqmcagkwnczgpcnwshcfigys,
ywfescnwshysx.sycfapczskqasrcWscoqapsispcowsnwsicwscbqjxpcoignscfc qsh
nqcst isyycwgycgpsfrc siwf ycKfxxfwsichgkwnczscfzxscnqcksncgncganqcyqhs
Xqapqac f sicmqicwghrcBqjxpcwscoignscyqhsnwgakcqigkgafx?cWscofycaqn
yjiscowfncgpsfcwscogywspcnqcst isyyczjncnwscnwqjkwncnwfncfc qsngb
hqhsancwfpcnqjbwspcwghcnqqecxgmscognwgacwghcxgescfacgamfancwq srcWs
yns  spcqaofipczif.sxdr

S.sidcyns cziqjkwncwghcasfisicnqcXqapqa,cmfinwsicmiqhcwgycqoacyqzsi
gafingyngbcxgmsrcFcxgkwnczskfacnqcnishzxscqacnwscwqigvqacqmcwgychgapr
Wscofycaqncyqcqxp—nwgind-noqrcWgycnsh sifhsanchgkwnczscyfgpcnqczscujyn
fncnwsc qgancqmchfnjigndrcNwsiscosiscyqchfadcpgmmsisanchqqpycfap
gh isyygqaycnwfncwscogywspcnqcst isyycgac.siysrcWscmsxncnwshcognwga
wghrcWscnigspcnqcosgkwcwgycyqjxcnqcysscgmcgncofycfc qsn’ycyqjxr
Hsxfabwqxdcofycnwscpqhgafancaqnscqmcwgycnsh sifhsan,cwscnwqjkwn,czjncgn
ofycfchsxfabwqxdcnsh sispczdcisbjiisabsycqmcmfgnwcfapcisygkafngqacfap
ygh xscuqdrcGmcwscbqjxpckg.scst isyygqacnqcgncgacfczqqecqmc qshy
 siwf ychsacoqjxpcxgynsarcWscoqjxpcas.siczsc q jxfi:cwscyfocnwfnrcWs
bqjxpcaqncyofdcnwscbiqopczjncwschgkwncf  sfxcnqcfcxgnnxscbgibxscqm
egapispchgapyrcNwscSakxgywcbigngby,c siwf y,coqjxpcisbqkagyscwghcfycqas
qmcnwscBsxngbcybwqqxczdcisfyqacqmcnwschsxfabwqxdcnqascqmcwgyc qshy;
zsygpsycnwfn,cwscoqjxpc jncgacfxxjygqayrcWsczskfacnqcga.sancysansabsy
fapc wifysycmiqhcnwscaqngbscowgbwcwgyczqqecoqjxpcksnrc_“HicBwfapxsicwfy
nwsckgmncqmcsfydcfapckifbsmjxc.siysr”crrrc“Fcogynmjxcyfpasyyc si.fpsy
nwsysc qshyr”crrrc“NwscBsxngbcaqnsr”_cGncofycfc gndcwgycafhscofycaqn
hqiscGigyw-xqqegakrc siwf ycgncoqjxpczsczsnnsicnqcgaysincwgychqnwsi’y
afhsczsmqiscnwscyjiafhs:cNwqhfycHfxqascBwfapxsi,cqiczsnnsicyngxx:cNr
HfxqascBwfapxsircWscoqjxpcy sfecnqcKfxxfwsicfzqjncgnr

Wsc jiyjspcwgycis.sidcyqcfipsanxdcnwfncwsc fyyspcwgycynissncfapcwfpcnq
njiaczfbercFycwscbfhscasficBqixsyy’ycwgycmqihsicfkgnfngqaczskfacnq
q.sihfynsicwghcfapcwscwfxnspczsmqiscnwscpqqicgacgapsbgygqarcMgafxxdcws
q saspcnwscpqqicfapcsansispr

Nwscxgkwncfapcaqgyscqmcnwsczficwsxpcwghcfncnwscpqqiofdycmqicfcmso
hqhsanyrcWscxqqespcfzqjncwgh,czjncwgycygkwncofycbqamjyspczdcnwscywgagak
qmchfadcispcfapckissacogas-kxfyysycNwsczficysshspcnqcwghcnqczscmjxxcqm
 sq xscfapcwscmsxncnwfncnwsc sq xscosiscqzysi.gakcwghcbjigqjyxdrcWs
kxfabspcljgbexdcnqcigkwncfapcxsmnc(miqoagakcyxgkwnxdcnqchfescwgycsiifap
f  sficysigqjy),czjncowsacwgycygkwncbxsfispcfcxgnnxscwscyfocnwfncaqzqpd
wfpcnjiaspcnqcxqqecfncwgh:cfapcnwsis,cyjiscsaqjkw,cofycGkafngjy
Kfxxfwsicxsfagakcognwcwgyczfbecfkfgayncnwscbqjansicfapcwgycmssnc xfansp
mficf finr

“Wfxxq,cNqhhd,cqxpcwsiq,cwsiscdqjcfis!cOwfncgycgncnqczs?cOwfncogxxcdqj
wf.s?cG’hcnfegakcowgyed:czsnnsicynjmmcnwfacoscksncfbiqyycnwscofnsir
Yqpf?cXgnwgf?cAqchgasifx?cG’hcnwscyfhsrcY qgxycnwscmxf.qjirrrrcWsis,
_kfiçqa_,czigakcjycnoqcwfx.sycqmchfxncowgyed,cxgescfckqqpcmsxxqorrrr
Osxx,cfapcwqocwf.scdqjczssac jxxgakcfxqakcygabscGcyfocdqjcxfyn?cPsfi
Kqp,cwqocqxpcos’iscksnngak!cPqcdqjcysscfadcygkaycqmcfkgakcgachs—sw,
owfn?cFcxgnnxsckisdcfapcnwgacqacnwscnq —owfn?”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicnqqecqmmcwgycwfncfapcpgy xfdspcfcxfikscbxqysxd
biq  spcwsfprcWgycmfbscofycwsf.d,c fxscfapcbxsfa-ywf.sarcWgycsdsy,
owgbwcosiscqmczxjgywcyxfns-bqxqji,cisxgs.spcwgycjawsfxnwdc fxxqicfap
ywqascqjnc xfgaxdcfzq.scnwsc.g.gpcqifakscngscwscoqisrcZsnossacnwsys
ig.fxcmsfnjisycnwscxg ycf  sfispc.sidcxqakcfapcywf sxsyycfap
bqxqjixsyyrcWsczsancwgycwsfpcfapcmsxncognwcnoqcydh fnwsngbcmgaksiycnws
nwgacwfgicfncnwscbiqoarcXgnnxscBwfapxsicywqqecwgycwsfpcfycfcpsagfxr
GkafngjycKfxfwsic jncqacwgycwfncfkfgar

“Gnc jxxycdqjcpqoa,”cwscyfgprc“ isyycxgmsrcFxofdycwjiidcfapcybjiid,
xqqegakcmqicbq dcfapcyqhsnghsycaqncmgapgakcgn:cfapcnwsa,cfxofdycnqcwf.s
yqhsnwgakcasocgacdqjicynjmmrcPfhac iqqmycfapc igansiy,cGcyfd,cmqicfcmso
pfdyrcG’hcpsjbspckxfp,cGcbfacnsxxcdqj,cnqcksnczfbecnqcnwscqxpcbqjanidr
Pqsycfcmsxxqockqqp,cfczgncqmcfcwqxgpfdrcGcmssxcfcnqaczsnnsicygabscG
xfapspcfkfgacgacpsficpgindcPjzxgarrrrcWsiscdqjcfis,cNqhhdrcOfnsi?cYfd
owsar”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicfxxqospcwgycowgyedcnqczsc.sidchjbwcpgxjnspr

“Dqjcpqa’nceaqocowfn’yckqqpcmqicdqj,chdczqd,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsir
“Gcpigaechgascasfnr”

“Gcpigaec.sidcxgnnxscfycfcijxs,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsichqpsynxdrc“Facqpp
wfxm-qascqicyqcowsacGchssncfadcqmcnwscqxpcbiqop:cnwfn’ycfxxr”

“Fw,cosxx,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,cbwssimjxxd,c“wsis’ycnqcjycfapcnq
qxpcnghsycfapcqxpcfbljfganfabsr”

Nwsdcbxgaespckxfyysycfapcpifaecnwscnqfynr

“Gchsncyqhscqmcnwscqxpckfakcnqpfd,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsirc“Q’Wfif
ysshycnqczscgacfczfpcofdrcOwfn’ycwscpqgak?”

“Aqnwgak,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsirc“Ws’yckqascnqcnwscpqkyr”

“ZjncWqkfacwfycfckqqpcygn,cwfya’ncws?”

“Dsy;cws’ycgacnwscXfapcBqhhgyygqar”

“GchsncwghcqascagkwncgacXqapqacfapcwscysshspcnqczsc.sidcmxjywrrrrc qqi
Q’Wfif!cZqqys,cGcyj  qys?”

“Qnwsicnwgaky,cnqq,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsicywqinxdr

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicxfjkwspr

“Nqhhd,”cwscyfgp,c“Gcysscdqjcwf.sa’ncbwfakspcfacfnqhrcDqj’iscnwsc.sid
yfhscysigqjyc siyqacnwfncjyspcnqcxsbnjischscqacYjapfdchqiagakycowsacG
wfpcfcyqiscwsfpcfapcfcmjicqachdcnqakjsrcDqj’pcofancnqceaqbecfzqjncfczgn
gacnwscoqixprcWf.scdqjcas.siczssacfadowsiscs.sacmqicfcnig ?”

“G’.sczssacnqcnwscGyxscqmcHfa,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsir

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicxfjkwspr

“NwscGyxscqmcHfa!”cwscyfgprc“KqcnqcXqapqacqic figy:c figy,cmqicbwqgbsr
Nwfn’pcpqcdqjckqqpr”

“Wf.scdqjcyssac figy?”

“GcywqjxpcnwgaecGcwf.s!cG’.sceaqbespcfzqjncnwsiscfcxgnnxsr”

“Fapcgycgncisfxxdcyqczsfjngmjxcfycnwsdcyfd?”cfyespcXgnnxscBwfapxsir

Wscyg  spcfcxgnnxscqmcwgycpigaecowgxscGkafngjycKfxxfwsicmgagywspcwgy
zqxpxdr

“Zsfjngmjx?”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c fjygakcqacnwscoqipcfapcqacnws
mxf.qjicqmcwgycpigaerc“Gn’ycaqncyqczsfjngmjx,cdqjceaqorcQmcbqjiys,cgn
gyczsfjngmjxrrrrcZjncgn’ycnwscxgmscqmc figy;cnwfn’ycnwscnwgakrcFw,
nwsis’ycaqcbgndcxgesc figycmqickfgsnd,chq.shsan,cstbgnshsanrrrr”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicmgagywspcwgycowgyedcfap,cfmnsicyqhscniqjzxs,cyjbbsspsp
gacbfnbwgakcnwsczfihfa’ycsdsrcWscqipsispcnwscyfhscfkfgar

“G’.sczssacnqcnwscHqjxgacIqjks,”cGkafngjycKfxxfwsicbqangajspcowsacnws
zfihfacwfpcishq.spcnwsgickxfyysy,c“fapcG’.sczssacnqcfxxcnwscZqwshgfa
bfméyrcWqncynjmm!cAqncmqicfc gqjycbwf cxgescdqj,cNqhhdr”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicyfgpcaqnwgakcjangxcnwsczfihfacisnjiaspcognwcnoq
kxfyysy:cnwsacwscnqjbwspcwgycmigsap’yckxfyycxgkwnxdcfapcisbg iqbfnsp
nwscmqihsicnqfynrcWscofyczskgaagakcnqcmssxcyqhsowfncpgygxxjygqaspr
Kfxxfwsi’ycfbbsancfapcofdcqmcst isyygakcwghysxmcpgpcaqnc xsfyscwghr
Nwsiscofycyqhsnwgakc.jxkficgacwgycmigsapcowgbwcwscwfpcaqncqzysi.sp
zsmqisrcZjnc siwf ycgncofycqaxdcnwscisyjxncqmcxg.gakcgacXqapqacfhgpcnws
zjynxscfapcbqh sngngqacqmcnwsc isyyrcNwscqxpc siyqafxcbwfihcofycyngxx
nwsiscjapsicnwgycasockfjpdchfaasircFap,cfmnsicfxx,cKfxxfwsicwfpcxg.sp,
wscwfpcyssacnwscoqixprcXgnnxscBwfapxsicxqqespcfncwgycmigsapcsa.gqjyxdr

“S.sidnwgakcgac figycgyckfd,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsirc“Nwsdczsxgs.scga
sauqdgakcxgms—fapcpqa’ncdqjcnwgaecnwsd’iscigkwn?cGmcdqjcofancnqcsauqd
dqjiysxmc iq sixdcdqjchjynckqcnqc figyrcFap,chgapcdqj,cnwsd’.scfckisfn
mssxgakcmqicnwscGigywcnwsisrcOwsacnwsdcwsfipcGcofycmiqhcGisxfapcnwsd
osiscisfpdcnqcsfnchs,chfar”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicnqqecmqjicqicmg.scyg ycmiqhcwgyckxfyyr

“Nsxxchs,”cwscyfgp,c“gycgncnijscnwfnc figycgycyqcrrrcghhqifxcfycnwsd
yfd?”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsichfpscfcbfnwqxgbcksynjiscognwcwgycigkwncfihr

“S.sidc xfbscgycghhqifx,”cwscyfgprc“Qmcbqjiyscdqjcpqcmgapcy gbdczgnycga
 figyrcKqcnqcqascqmcnwscynjpsany’czfxxy,cmqicgaynfabsrcNwfn’ycxg.sxd,
gmcdqjcxges,cowsacnwsc_bqbqnnsy_czskgacnqcxsncnwshysx.sycxqqysrcDqj
eaqocowfncnwsdcfis,cGcyj  qys?”

“G’.scwsfipcqmcnwsh,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsir

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicpifaecqmmcwgycowgyedcfapcywqqecwgycwsfpr

“Fw,”cwscyfgp,c“dqjchfdcyfdcowfncdqjcxgesrcNwsis’ycaqcoqhfacxgescnws
 figygsaas—mqicyndxs,cmqickqr”

“Nwsacgncgycfacghhqifxcbgnd,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsi,cognwcnghgp
gaygynsabs—“Gchsfa,cbqh fispcognwcXqapqacqicPjzxga?”

“Xqapqa!”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsirc“Gn’ycygtcqmcqascfapcwfxm-f-pqvsacqm
nwscqnwsircDqjcfyecWqkfa,chdczqdrcGcywqospcwghcfczgncfzqjncXqapqacowsa
wscofycq.sicnwsisrcWs’pcq sacdqjicsdsrrrrcGcyfd,cNqhhd,cpqa’nchfes
 jabwcqmcnwfncowgyed:cxgljqicj r”

“Aq,cisfxxdrrrr”

“Q,cbqhscqa,cfaqnwsicqascoqa’ncpqcdqjcfadcwfihrcOwfncgycgn?cNwscyfhs
fkfga,cGcyj  qys?”

“Osxxcrrrcfxxcigkwnr”

“_Mifaçqgy_,cnwscyfhscfkfgarrrrcOgxxcdqjcyhqes,cNqhhd?”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsic iqpjbspcwgycbgkfi-bfysrcNwscnoqcmigsapycxgncnwsgi
bgkfiycfapc jmmspcfncnwshcgacygxsabscjangxcnwsgicpigaeycosiscysi.spr

“G’xxcnsxxcdqjchdcq gagqa,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,cshsikgakcfmnsicyqhs
nghscmiqhcnwscbxqjpycqmcyhqescgacowgbwcwscwfpcnfesacismjks,c“gn’ycfcijh
oqixprcNfxecqmcghhqifxgnd!cG’.scwsfipcqmcbfysy—owfncfhcGcyfdgak?—G’.s
eaqoacnwsh:cbfysycqmcrrrcghhqifxgndrrrr”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsic jmmspcnwqjkwnmjxxdcfncwgycbgkficfapcnwsa,cgacfcbfxh
wgynqigfa’ycnqas,cwsc iqbsspspcnqcyesnbwcmqicwgycmigsapcyqhsc gbnjisy
qmcnwscbqiij ngqacowgbwcofycigmscfziqfprcWscyjhhfigyspcnwsc.gbsycqm
hfadcbf gnfxycfapcysshspcgabxgaspcnqcfofipcnwsc fxhcnqcZsixgarcYqhs
nwgakycwscbqjxpcaqnc.qjbwcmqic(wgycmigsapycwfpcnqxpcwgh),czjncqmcqnwsiy
wscwfpcwfpc siyqafxcst sigsabsrcWscy fispcasgnwsicifaecaqicbfynsrcWs
is.sfxspchfadcqmcnwscysbisnycqmcisxgkgqjycwqjysycqacnwscBqangasancfap
psybigzspcyqhscqmcnwsc ifbngbsycowgbwcosiscmfywgqafzxscgacwgkwcyqbgsnd
fapcsapspczdcnsxxgak,cognwcpsnfgxy,cfcynqidcfzqjncfacSakxgywcpjbwsyy—f
ynqidcowgbwcwsceasocnqczscnijsrcXgnnxscBwfapxsicofycfynqagywspr

“Fw,cosxx,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c“wsiscoscfiscgacqxpcuqk-fxqak
Pjzxgacowsiscaqnwgakcgyceaqoacqmcyjbwcnwgakyr”

“Wqocpjxxcdqjchjyncmgapcgn,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsi,c“fmnsicfxxcnwscqnwsi
 xfbsycdqj’.scyssa!”

“Osxx,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c“gn’ycfcisxftfngqacnqcbqhscq.sicwsis,
dqjceaqorcFap,cfmnsicfxx,cgn’ycnwscqxpcbqjanid,cfycnwsdcyfd,cgya’ncgn?
Dqjcbfa’ncwsx cwf.gakcfcbsinfgacmssxgakcmqicgnrcNwfn’ycwjhfacafnjisrrrr
ZjncnsxxchscyqhsnwgakcfzqjncdqjiysxmrcWqkfacnqxpchscdqjcwfpcrrrcnfynsp
nwscuqdycqmcbqaajzgfxczxgyyrcNoqcdsfiycfkq,cofya’ncgn?”

XgnnxscBwfapxsiczxjywspcfapcyhgxspr

“Dsy,”cwscyfgprc“GcofychfiigspcxfyncHfdcnosx.schqanwyr”

“Gcwq scgn’ycaqncnqqcxfnscgacnwscpfdcnqcqmmsichdczsyncogywsy,”cyfgp
GkafngjycKfxxfwsirc“Gcpgpa’nceaqocdqjicfppisyycqicG’pcwf.scpqascyqcfn
nwscnghsr”

Wscstnsapspcwgycwfap,cowgbwcXgnnxscBwfapxsicnqqer

“Osxx,cNqhhd,”cwscyfgp,c“Gcogywcdqjcfapcdqjiycs.sidcuqdcgacxgms,cqxp
bwf ,cfapcnqaycqmchqasd,cfapchfdcdqjcas.sicpgscngxxcGcywqqncdqjrcFap
nwfn’ycnwscogywcqmcfcygabsiscmigsap,cfacqxpcmigsaprcDqjceaqocnwfn?”

“Gceaqocnwfn,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsir

“Fadcdqjakynsiy?”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsir

XgnnxscBwfapxsiczxjywspcfkfgar

“Oscwf.scqascbwgxp,”cwscyfgpr

“Yqacqicpfjkwnsi?”

“Fcxgnnxsczqdr”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicyxf  spcwgycmigsapcyqaqiqjyxdcqacnwsczfber

“Zif.q,”cwscyfgp,c“Gcoqjxpa’ncpqjzncdqj,cNqhhdr”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicyhgxsp,cxqqespcbqamjyspxdcfncwgyckxfyycfapczgncwgy
xqosicxg cognwcnwisscbwgxpgywxdcowgnscmiqancnssnwr

“Gcwq scdqj’xxcy sapcfacs.sagakcognwcjy,”cwscyfgp,c“zsmqiscdqjckqczfber
HdcogmscogxxczscpsxgkwnspcnqchssncdqjrcOscbfacwf.scfcxgnnxschjygb
fap——”

“Nwfaeycfomjxxd,cqxpcbwf ,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c“G’hcyqiidcos
pgpa’nchssncsfixgsircZjncGchjyncxsf.scnqhqiiqocagkwnr”

“Nqagkwn,c siwf yrrr?”

“G’hcfomjxxdcyqiid,cqxpchfarcDqjcysscG’hcq.sicwsiscognwcfaqnwsicmsxxqo,
bxs.sicdqjakcbwf cwscgycnqq,cfapcoscfiifakspcnqckqcnqcfcxgnnxs
bfip- findrcQaxdcmqicnwfnrrrr”

“Q,cgacnwfncbfysrrrr”

“Zjncowqceaqoy?”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsicbqaygpsifnsxdrc“AstncdsficGchfd
nfescfcxgnnxscyeg cq.sicwsiscaqocnwfncG’.scziqesacnwscgbsrcGn’ycqaxdcf
 xsfyjiscpsmsiispr”

“.sidcosxx,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsi,c“nwscastncnghscdqjcbqhscoschjyncwf.s
facs.sagakcnqksnwsircNwfn’ycfkisspcaqo,cgya’ncgn?”

“Dsy,cnwfn’ycfkissp,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsirc“AstncdsficgmcGcbqhs,
_ fiqxscp’wqaasji_r”

“Fapcnqcbxgabwcnwsczfikfga,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsi,c“os’xxcujyncwf.scqas
hqiscaqor”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicnqqecqjncfcxfiksckqxpcofnbwcfapcxqqespcfncgnr

“Gycgncnqczscnwscxfyn?”cwscyfgprc“Zsbfjyscdqjceaqo,cGcwf.scfacfr r”

“Q,cdsy,c qygng.sxd,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsir

“.sidcosxx,cnwsa,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c“xsncjycwf.scfaqnwsicqascfy
fc_psqbcfacpqijgy_—nwfn’yckqqpc.siafbjxficmqicfcyhfxxcowgyed,cG
zsxgs.sr”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicqipsispcnwscpigaeyrcNwsczxjywcowgbwcwfpcigysacnqcwgy
mfbscfcmsochqhsanyczsmqiscofycsynfzxgywgakcgnysxmrcFcnigmxschfpscwgh
zxjywcfncfadcnghs:cfapcaqocwscmsxncofihcfapcstbgnsprcNwisscyhfxx
owgyegsycwfpckqascnqcwgycwsfpcfapcKfxxfwsi’ycyniqakcbgkficwfpcbqamjysp
wgychgap,cmqicwscofycfcpsxgbfnscfapcfzyngasanc siyqarcNwscfp.sanjiscqm
hssngakcKfxxfwsicfmnsicsgkwncdsfiy,cqmcmgapgakcwghysxmcognwcKfxxfwsicga
Bqixsyy’ycyjiiqjapspczdcxgkwnycfapcaqgys,cqmcxgynsagakcnqcKfxxfwsi’y
ynqigsycfapcqmcywfigakcmqicfczigsmcy fbscKfxxfwsi’yc.fkifancfap
nigjh wfancxgms,cj ysncnwscsljg qgyscqmcwgycysaygng.scafnjisrcWscmsxn
fbjnsxdcnwscbqanifynczsnossacwgycqoacxgmscfapcwgycmigsap’ycfapcgn
ysshspcnqcwghcjaujynrcKfxxfwsicofycwgycgamsigqicgaczginwcfapcspjbfngqar
Wscofycyjiscnwfncwscbqjxpcpqcyqhsnwgakczsnnsicnwfacwgycmigsapcwfpcs.si
pqas,cqicbqjxpcs.sicpq,cyqhsnwgakcwgkwsicnwfachsiscnfopidcuqjiafxgyhcgm
wscqaxdckqncnwscbwfabsrcOwfncofycgncnwfncynqqpcgacwgycofd?cWgy
jamqinjafnscnghgpgnd!cWscogywspcnqc.gapgbfnscwghysxmcgacyqhscofd,cnq
fyysincwgychfawqqprcWscyfoczswgapcKfxxfwsi’ycismjyfxcqmcwgycga.gnfngqar
Kfxxfwsicofycqaxdc fniqagygakcwghczdcwgycmigsapxgasyycujyncfycwscofy
 fniqagygakcGisxfapczdcwgyc.gygnr

NwsczfihfacziqjkwncnwsgicpigaeyrcXgnnxscBwfapxsic jywspcqasckxfyy
nqofipycwgycmigsapcfapcnqqecj cnwscqnwsiczqxpxdr

“Owqceaqoy?”cwscyfgp,cfycnwsdcxgmnspcnwsgickxfyysyrc“Owsacdqjcbqhscastn
dsficGchfdcwf.scnwsc xsfyjiscqmcogywgakcxqakcxgmscfapcwf  gasyycnqcHi
fapcHiycGkafngjycKfxxfwsir”

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicgacnwscfbncqmcpigaegakcbxqyspcqascsdscst isyyg.sxd
q.sicnwscighcqmcwgyckxfyyrcOwsacwscwfpcpijaecwscyhfbespcwgycxg y
psbgyg.sxd,cysncpqoacwgyckxfyycfapcyfgp:

“Aqczxqqhgakcmsficqmcnwfn,chdczqdrcG’hckqgakcnqcwf.schdcmxgakcmgiyncfap
ysscfczgncqmcxgmscfapcnwscoqixpczsmqiscGc jnchdcwsfpcgacnwscyfbe—gmcG
s.sicpqr”

“Yqhscpfdcdqjcogxx,”cyfgpcXgnnxscBwfapxsicbfxhxdr

GkafngjycKfxxfwsicnjiaspcwgycqifakscngscfapcyxfns-zxjscsdsycmjxxcj qa
wgycmigsapr

“Dqjcnwgaecyq?”cwscyfgpr

“Dqj’xxc jncdqjicwsfpcgacnwscyfbe,”cis sfnspcXgnnxscBwfapxsicynqjnxd,
“xgescs.sidqascsxyscgmcdqjcbfacmgapcnwsckgixr”

Wscwfpcyxgkwnxdcsh wfygyspcwgycnqascfapcwscofycfofiscnwfncwscwfp
zsnifdspcwghysxm;czjn,cnwqjkwcnwscbqxqjicwfpcwsgkwnsaspcgacwgycbwsse,
wscpgpcaqncmxgabwcmiqhcwgycmigsap’yckfvsrcGkafngjycKfxxfwsicofnbwspcwgh
mqicfcmsochqhsanycfapcnwsacyfgp:

“Gmcs.sicgncqbbjiy,cdqjchfdczsncdqjiczqnnqhcpqxxficnwsis’xxczscaq
hqqagakcfapcy qqagakcfzqjncgnrcGchsfacnqchfiidchqasdrcYws’xxcwf.scf
kqqpcmfncfbbqjancfncnwsczfaecqicywscoqa’ncpqcmqichsr”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicywqqecwgycwsfpr

“Owd,chfacfxg.s,”cyfgpcGkafngjycKfxxfwsi,c.swshsanxd,c“pqcdqjceaqocowfn
gncgy?cG’.scqaxdcnqcyfdcnwscoqipcfapcnqhqiiqocGcbfacwf.scnwscoqhfacfap
nwscbfywrcDqjcpqa’nczsxgs.scgn?cOsxx,cGceaqocgnrcNwsiscfis
wjapispy—owfncfhcGcyfdgak?—nwqjyfapycqmcigbwcKsihfaycfapcUsoy,ciqnnsa
ognwchqasd,cnwfn’pcqaxdczscnqqckxfprrrrcDqjcofgncfcowgxschdczqdrcYsscgm
Gcpqa’nc xfdchdcbfipyc iq sixdrcOwsacGckqcfzqjncfcnwgakcGchsfa
zjygasyy,cGcnsxxcdqjrcDqjcujyncofgnr”

Wscnqyyspcwgyckxfyycnqcwgychqjnw,cmgagywspcwgycpigaecfapcxfjkwsp
xqjpxdrcNwsacwscxqqespcnwqjkwnmjxxdczsmqiscwghcfapcyfgpcgacfcbfxhsi
nqas:

“ZjncG’hcgacaqcwjiidrcNwsdcbfacofgnrcGcpqa’ncmfabdcndgakchdysxmcj cnq
qascoqhfa,cdqjceaqor”

Wscghgnfnspcognwcwgychqjnwcnwscfbncqmcnfyngakcfapchfpscfcoidcmfbsr

“Hjyncksncfczgncynfxs,cGcywqjxpcnwgae,”cwscyfgpr



XgnnxscBwfapxsicyfncgacnwsciqqhcqmmcnwscwfxx,cwqxpgakcfcbwgxpcgacwgy
fihyrcNqcyf.schqasdcnwsdces ncaqcysi.fanczjncFaags’ycdqjakcygynsi
Hqagbfcbfhscmqicfacwqjicqicyqcgacnwschqiagakcfapcfacwqjicqicyqcgacnws
s.sagakcnqcwsx rcZjncHqagbfcwfpckqascwqhscxqakcfkqrcGncofycfcljfinsicnq
agasrcXgnnxscBwfapxsicwfpcbqhscwqhscxfnscmqicnsfcfap,chqisq.si,cwscwfp
mqikqnnsacnqczigakcFaagscwqhscnwsc fibsxcqmcbqmmsscmiqhcZsoxsd’yrcQm
bqjiyscywscofycgacfczfpcwjhqjicfapckf.scwghcywqincfayosiyrcYwscyfgpcyws
oqjxpcpqcognwqjncfadcnsfczjncowsacgncbfhscasficnwscnghscfncowgbwcnws
ywq cfncnwscbqiasicbxqyspcywscpsbgpspcnqckqcqjncwsiysxmcmqicfcljfinsi
qmcfc qjapcqmcnsfcfapcnoqc qjapycqmcyjkfircYwsc jncnwscyxss gakcbwgxp
psmnxdcgacwgycfihycfapcyfgp:

“WsisrcPqa’ncofesacwghr”

Fcxgnnxscxfh cognwcfcowgnscbwgafcywfpscynqqpcj qacnwscnfzxscfapcgny
xgkwncmsxxcq.sicfc wqnqkif wcowgbwcofycsabxqyspcgacfcmifhscqmcbijh xsp
wqiarcGncofycFaags’yc wqnqkif wrcXgnnxscBwfapxsicxqqespcfncgn,c fjygak
fncnwscnwgacngkwncxg yrcYwscoqiscnwsc fxsczxjscyjhhsiczxqjyscowgbwcws
wfpcziqjkwncwsicwqhscfycfc isysancqascYfnjipfdrcGncwfpcbqyncwghcnsacfap
sxs.sa sabs;czjncowfncfacfkqadcqmcasi.qjyasyycgncwfpcbqyncwgh!cWqocws
wfpcyjmmsispcnwfncpfd,cofgngakcfncnwscywq cpqqicjangxcnwscywq cofy
sh nd,cynfapgakcfncnwscbqjansicfapcnidgakcnqcf  sficfncwgycsfyscowgxs
nwsckgixc gxspcxfpgsy’czxqjysyczsmqiscwgh,c fdgakcfncnwscpsyecfap
mqiksnngakcnqcnfescj cnwscqppc saadcqmcwgycbwfaks,czsgakcbfxxspczfbeczd
nwscbfywgsi,cfapcmgafxxd,cynig.gakcnqcwgpscwgyczxjywsycfycwscxsmncnws
ywq czdcstfhgagakcnwsc fibsxcnqcysscgmcgncofycysbjisxdcngsprcOwsacws
ziqjkwncnwsczxqjyscwqhscFaagscegyyspcwghcfapcyfgpcgncofyc.sidc isnnd
fapcyndxgyw;czjncowsacywscwsfipcnwsc igbscywscnwisocnwsczxqjyscqacnws
nfzxscfapcyfgpcgncofycfciskjxficyogapxscnqcbwfikscnsacfapcsxs.sa sabs
mqicgnrcFncmgiyncywscofanspcnqcnfescgnczfbeczjncowsacywscnigspcgncqa
ywscofycpsxgkwnspcognwcgn,csy sbgfxxdcognwcnwschfescqmcnwscyxss.sy,cfap
egyyspcwghcfapcyfgpcwscofyc.sidckqqpcnqcnwgaecqmcwsir

Wh!rrr

Wscxqqespcbqxpxdcganqcnwscsdsycqmcnwsc wqnqkif wcfapcnwsdcfayosisp
bqxpxdrcBsinfgaxdcnwsdcosisc isnndcfapcnwscmfbscgnysxmcofyc isnndrcZjn
wscmqjapcyqhsnwgakchsfacgacgnrcOwdcofycgncyqcjabqaybgqjycfapcxfpdxges?
Nwscbqh qyjiscqmcnwscsdsycgiignfnspcwghrcNwsdcis sxxspcwghcfapcpsmgsp
wgh:cnwsiscofycaqc fyygqacgacnwsh,caqcif njisrcWscnwqjkwncqmcowfn
KfxxfwsicwfpcyfgpcfzqjncigbwcUsosyysyrcNwqyscpfiecQigsanfxcsdsy,cws
nwqjkwn,cwqocmjxxcnwsdcfiscqmc fyygqa,cqmc.qxj njqjycxqakgak!rrrcOwd
wfpcwschfiigspcnwscsdsycgacnwsc wqnqkif w?

Wscbfjkwncwghysxmcj cfncnwscljsyngqacfapckxfabspcasi.qjyxdciqjapcnws
iqqhrcWscmqjapcyqhsnwgakchsfacgacnwsc isnndcmjiagnjiscowgbwcwscwfp
zqjkwncmqicwgycwqjyscqacnwscwgiscydynshrcFaagscwfpcbwqysacgncwsiysxm
fapcgncishgapspcwghcqmcwsircGncnqqcofyc ighcfapc isnndrcFcpjxx
isysanhsancfkfgayncwgycxgmscfoqescognwgacwghrcBqjxpcwscaqncsybf scmiqh
wgycxgnnxscwqjys?cOfycgncnqqcxfnscmqicwghcnqcnidcnqcxg.sczif.sxdcxges
Kfxxfwsi?cBqjxpcwsckqcnqcXqapqa?cNwsiscofycnwscmjiagnjiscyngxxcnqczs
 fgpcmqircGmcwscbqjxpcqaxdcoignscfczqqecfapcksncgnc jzxgywsp,cnwfn
hgkwncq sacnwscofdcmqicwghr

Fc.qxjhscqmcZdiqa’yc qshycxfdczsmqiscwghcqacnwscnfzxsrcWscq saspcgn
bfjngqjyxdcognwcwgycxsmncwfapcxsyncwscywqjxpcofesacnwscbwgxpcfapczskfa
nqcisfpcnwscmgiync qshcgacnwsczqqe:

ccccc_Wjywspcfiscnwscogapycfapcyngxxcnwscs.sagakckxqqh,
cccccccccAqncs’sacfcVs wdicofapsiycnwiqjkwcnwsckiq.s,
cccccOwgxyncGcisnjiacnqc.gsochdcHfikfisn’ycnqhz
cccccccccFapcybfnnsicmxqosiycqacnwscpjyncGcxq.sr_

Wsc fjysprcWscmsxncnwsciwdnwhcqmcnwsc.siyscfzqjncwghcgacnwsciqqhrcWqo
hsxfabwqxdcgncofy!cBqjxpcws,cnqq,coignscxgescnwfn,cst isyycnws
hsxfabwqxdcqmcwgycyqjxcgac.siys?cNwsiscosiscyqchfadcnwgakycwscofanspcnq
psybigzs:cwgycysayfngqacqmcfcmsocwqjiyczsmqiscqacKifnnfacZigpks,cmqi
stfh xsrcGmcwscbqjxpcksnczfbecfkfgacganqcnwfnchqqprrrr

NwscbwgxpcfoqescfapczskfacnqcbidrcWscnjiaspcmiqhcnwsc fkscfapcnigspcnq
wjywcgn:czjncgncoqjxpcaqnczscwjywsprcWsczskfacnqciqbecgncnqcfapcmiqcga
wgycfihyczjncgnycofgxgakcbidckisocessasircWsciqbespcgncmfynsicowgxscwgy
sdsyczskfacnqcisfpcnwscysbqapcynfavf:

ccccc_Ognwgacnwgycafiiqocbsxxcisbxgasycwsicbxfd,
cccccccccNwfncbxfdcowsiscqabsrrrr_

GncofycjysxsyyrcWscbqjxpa’ncisfprcWscbqjxpa’ncpqcfadnwgakrcNwscofgxgak
qmcnwscbwgxpc gsibspcnwscpijhcqmcwgycsfircGncofycjysxsyy,cjysxsyy!cWs
ofycfc igyqasicmqicxgmsrcWgycfihycnishzxspcognwcfaksicfapcyjppsaxd
zsapgakcnqcnwscbwgxp’ycmfbscwscywqjnsp:

“Ynq !”

Nwscbwgxpcynq  spcmqicfacgaynfan,cwfpcfcy fyhcqmcmigkwncfapczskfacnq
ybisfhrcWscujh spcj cmiqhcwgycbwfgicfapcofxespcwfyngxdcj cfapcpqoacnws
iqqhcognwcnwscbwgxpcgacwgycfihyrcGnczskfacnqcyqzc gnsqjyxd,cxqygakcgny
zisfnwcmqicmqjicqicmg.scysbqapy,cfapcnwsaczjiyngakcqjncfasorcNwscnwga
ofxxycqmcnwsciqqhcsbwqspcnwscyqjaprcWscnigspcnqcyqqnwscgnczjncgncyqzzsp
hqiscbqa.jxyg.sxdrcWscxqqespcfncnwscbqanifbnspcfapcljg.sigakcmfbscqm
nwscbwgxpcfapczskfacnqczscfxfihsprcWscbqjanspcys.sacyqzycognwqjncf
zisfeczsnossacnwshcfapcbfjkwncnwscbwgxpcnqcwgyczisfyncgacmigkwnrcGmcgn
pgsp!rrr

Nwscpqqicofyczjiyncq sacfapcfcdqjakcoqhfacifacga,c fangakr

“Owfncgycgn?cOwfncgycgn?”cywscbigspr

Nwscbwgxp,cwsfigakcgnychqnwsi’yc.qgbs,cziqescqjncganqcfc fiqtdyhcqm
yqzzgakr

“Gn’ycaqnwgak,cFaagscrrrcgn’ycaqnwgakrrrrcWsczskfacnqcbidrrrr”

Ywscmxjakcwsic fibsxycqacnwscmxqqicfapcyafnbwspcnwscbwgxpcmiqhcwghr

“Owfncwf.scdqjcpqascnqcwgh?”cywscbigsp,ckxfigakcganqcwgycmfbsr

XgnnxscBwfapxsicyjynfgaspcmqicqaschqhsancnwsckfvscqmcwsicsdsycfapcwgy
wsfincbxqyspcnqksnwsicfycwschsncnwscwfnispcgacnwshrcWsczskfacnq
ynfhhsi:

“Gn’ycaqnwgakrrrrcWscrrrcwsczskfacnqcbidrrrrcGcbqjxpa’ncrrrcGcpgpa’ncpq
fadnwgakrrrrcOwfn?”

Kg.gakcaqcwsspcnqcwghcywsczskfacnqcofxecj cfapcpqoacnwsciqqh,cbxfy gak
nwscbwgxpcngkwnxdcgacwsicfihycfapchjihjigak:

“Hdcxgnnxschfa!cHdcxgnnxschfaags!cOfyc’qjcmigkwnsasp,cxq.s?rrrcNwsis
aqo,cxq.s!cNwsiscaqo!rrrcXfhzfzfja!cHfhhf’ycxgnnxscxfhzcqmcnws
oqixp!rrrcNwsiscaqo!”

XgnnxscBwfapxsicmsxncwgycbwsseycyjmmjyspcognwcywfhscfapcwscynqqpczfbe
qjncqmcnwscxfh xgkwnrcWscxgynsaspcowgxscnwsc fiqtdyhcqmcnwscbwgxp’y
yqzzgakckisocxsyycfapcxsyy;cfapcnsfiycqmcishqiyscynfinspcnqcwgycsdsyr



BQJANSI FINY

Nwsczsxxcifakcmjigqjyxdcfap,cowsacHgyyc fiesicosancnqcnwscnjzs,cf
mjigqjyc.qgbscbfxxspcqjncgacfc gsibgakcAqinwcqmcGisxfapcfbbsan:

“YsapcMfiigaknqacwsis!”

Hgyyc fiesicisnjiaspcnqcwsichfbwgas,cyfdgakcnqcfchfacowqcofycoigngakcfn
fcpsye:

“HicFxxsdascofanycdqjcj ynfgiyr”

Nwschfachjnnsispc“_Zxfyn_cwgh!”cjapsicwgyczisfnwcfapc jywspczfbecwgy
bwfgicnqcynfapcj rcOwsacwscynqqpcj cwscofycnfxxcfapcqmckisfnczjxercWs
wfpcfcwfakgakcmfbs,cpfiecogas-bqxqjisp,cognwcmfgicsdsziqoycfap
hqjynfbws:cwgycsdsyczjxkspcmqiofipcyxgkwnxdcfapcnwscowgnsycqmcnwshcosis
pgindrcWscxgmnspcj cnwscbqjansicfap,c fyygakczdcnwscbxgsany,cosancqjn
qmcnwscqmmgbscognwcfcwsf.dcyns r

Wscosancwsf.gxdcj ynfgiycjangxcwscbfhscnqcnwscysbqapcxfapgak,cowsiscf
pqqiczqiscfczifyyc xfnscognwcnwscgaybig ngqac_HicFxxsdas_rcWsiscws
wfxnsp,c jmmgakcognwcxfzqjicfapc.stfngqa,cfapceaqbesprcNwscywigxxc.qgbs
bigsp:

“Bqhscga!”

NwschfacsansispcHicFxxsdas’yciqqhrcYghjxnfasqjyxdcHicFxxsdas,cfcxgnnxs
hfacosfigakckqxp-ighhspckxfyysycqacfcbxsfa-ywf.sacmfbs,cywqncwgycwsfp
j cq.sicfc gxscqmcpqbjhsanyrcNwscwsfpcgnysxmcofycyqc gaecfapcwfgixsyy
gncysshspcxgescfcxfikscskkcis qygakcqacnwsc f siyrcHicFxxsdascpgpcaqn
xqyscfchqhsan:

“Mfiigaknqa?cOwfncgycnwschsfagakcqmcnwgy?cOwdcwf.scGcfxofdycnqcbqh xfga
qmcdqj?cHfdcGcfyecdqjcowdcdqjcwf.sa’nchfpscfcbq dcqmcnwfncbqanifbn
zsnossacZqpxsdcfapcEgiofa?cGcnqxpcdqjcgnchjynczscisfpdczdcmqji
q’bxqber”

“ZjncHicYwsxxsdcyfgp,cygi——”

“_HicYwsxxsdcyfgp,cygirrrr_cEgapxdcfnnsapcnqcowfncGcyfdcfapcaqncnqcowfn
_HicYwsxxsdcyfdy,cygi_rcDqjcwf.scfxofdycyqhscstbjyscqicfaqnwsicmqi
ywgiegakcoqiercXsnchscnsxxcdqjcnwfncgmcnwscbqanifbncgycaqncbq gsp
zsmqiscnwgycs.sagakcG’xxcxfdcnwschfnnsiczsmqiscHicBiqyzgsrrrrcPqcdqj
wsfichscaqo?”

“Dsy,cygir”

“Pqcdqjcwsfichscaqo?rrrcFdcfapcfaqnwsicxgnnxschfnnsi!cGchgkwncfycosxx
zscnfxegakcnqcnwscofxxcfycnfxegakcnqcdqjrcJapsiynfapcqabscmqicfxxcnwfn
dqjcksncfcwfxmcfacwqjicmqicdqjicxjabwcfapcaqncfacwqjicfapcfcwfxmrcWqo
hfadcbqjiysycpqcdqjcofan,cG’pcxgescnqceaqorrrrcPqcdqjchgapchs,caqo?”

“Dsy,cygir”

HicFxxsdasczsancwgycwsfpcfkfgacj qacwgyc gxscqmc f siyrcNwschfacynfisp
mgtspxdcfncnwsc qxgywspcyejxxcowgbwcpgisbnspcnwscfmmfgiycqmcBiqyzgsc&
Fxxsdas,ckfjkgakcgnycmifkgxgndrcFcy fyhcqmcifksckig  spcwgycnwiqfncmqi
fcmsochqhsanycfapcnwsac fyysp,cxsf.gakcfmnsicgncfcywfi cysayfngqacqm
nwgiynrcNwschfacisbqkagyspcnwscysayfngqacfapcmsxncnwfncwschjyncwf.scf
kqqpcagkwn’ycpigaegakrcNwschgppxscqmcnwschqanwcofyc fyyspcfap,cgmcws
bqjxpcksncnwscbq dcpqascgacnghs,cHicFxxsdaschgkwnckg.scwghcfacqipsicqa
nwscbfywgsircWscynqqpcyngxx,ckfvgakcmgtspxdcfncnwscwsfpcj qacnwsc gxs
qmc f siyrcYjppsaxdcHicFxxsdasczskfacnqcj ysncfxxcnwsc f siy,cysfibwgak
mqicyqhsnwgakrcNwsa,cfycgmcwscwfpczssacjafofiscqmcnwschfa’yc isysabs
ngxxcnwfnchqhsan,cwscywqncj cwgycwsfpcfkfga,cyfdgak:

“Sw?cFiscdqjckqgakcnqcynfapcnwsiscfxxcpfd?cJ qachdcoqip,cMfiigaknqa,
dqjcnfescnwgakycsfyd!”

“Gcofycofgngakcnqcyssrrrr”

“.sidckqqp,cdqjcasspa’ncofgncnqcyssrcKqcpqoaynfgiycfapcpqcdqjicoqier”

Nwschfacofxespcwsf.gxdcnqofipycnwscpqqicfap,cfycwscosancqjncqmcnws
iqqh,cwscwsfipcHicFxxsdascbidcfmnsicwghcnwfncgmcnwscbqanifbncofycaqn
bq gspczdcs.sagakcHicBiqyzgscoqjxpcwsficqmcnwschfnnsir

Wscisnjiaspcnqcwgycpsyecgacnwscxqosicqmmgbscfapcbqjanspcnwscywssny
owgbwcishfgaspcnqczscbq gsprcWscnqqecj cwgyc sacfapcpg  spcgncgacnws
gaeczjncwscbqangajspcnqcynfiscynj gpxdcfncnwscxfyncoqipycwscwfp
oignnsa:c_GacaqcbfyscywfxxcnwscyfgpcZsiafipcZqpxsdczsrrrr_cNwscs.sagak
ofycmfxxgakcfapcgacfcmsochgajnsycnwsdcoqjxpczscxgkwngakcnwsckfy:cnwsa
wscbqjxpcoignsrcWscmsxncnwfncwschjyncyxfescnwscnwgiyncgacwgycnwiqfnrcWs
ynqqpcj cmiqhcwgycpsyecfap,cxgmngakcnwscbqjansicfyczsmqis,c fyyspcqjn
qmcnwscqmmgbsrcFycwscofyc fyygakcqjncnwscbwgsmcbxsiecxqqespcfncwgh
galjgigakxdr

“Gn’ycfxxcigkwn,cHicYwsxxsd,”cyfgpcnwschfa,c qgangakcognwcwgycmgaksicnq
gapgbfnscnwscqzusbng.scqmcwgycuqjiasdr

Nwscbwgsmcbxsieckxfabspcfncnwscwfn-ifbeczjn,cyssgakcnwsciqocbqh xsns,
qmmsispcaqcishfiercFycyqqacfycwscofycqacnwscxfapgakcnwschfac jxxspcf
yws wsip’yc xfgpcbf cqjncqmcwgyc qbesn,c jncgncqacwgycwsfpcfapcifa
ljgbexdcpqoacnwscigbesndcynfgiyrcMiqhcnwscynissncpqqicwscofxespcqa
mjing.sxdcqacnwscgaasicygpscqmcnwsc fnwcnqofipycnwscbqiasicfapcfxxcfn
qabscpg.spcganqcfcpqqiofdrcWscofycaqocyfmscgacnwscpfiecyajkcqm
Q’Asgxx’ycywq ,cfapcmgxxgakcj cnwscxgnnxscogapqocnwfncxqqespcganqcnws
zficognwcwgycgamxfhspcmfbs,cnwscbqxqjicqmcpfiecogascqicpfiechsfn,cws
bfxxspcqjn:

“Wsis,c fn,ckg.scjycfckr r,cxgescfckqqpcmsxxqor”

Nwscbjifnscziqjkwncwghcfckxfyycqmc xfgac qinsircNwschfacpifaecgncfncf
kjx cfapcfyespcmqicfcbfifofdcyssprcWsc jncwgyc saadcqacnwscbqjansicfap,
xsf.gakcnwscbjifnscnqckiq scmqicgncgacnwsckxqqh,cisnisfnspcqjncqmcnws
yajkcfycmjing.sxdcfycwscwfpcsansispcgnr

Pfieasyy,cfbbqh fagspczdcfcnwgbecmqk,cofyckfgagakcj qacnwscpjyecqm
Mszijfidcfapcnwscxfh ycgacSjynfbscYnissncwfpczssacxgnrcNwschfacosancj 
zdcnwscwqjysycjangxcwscisfbwspcnwscpqqicqmcnwscqmmgbs,coqapsigak
owsnwsicwscbqjxpcmgagywcwgycbq dcgacnghsrcQacnwscynfgiycfchqgync jaksan
qpqjicqmc simjhsycyfxjnspcwgycaqys:cs.gpsanxdcHgyycPsxfbqjicwfpcbqhs
owgxscwscofycqjncgacQ’Asgxx’yrcWscbifhhspcwgycbf czfbecfkfgacganqcwgy
 qbesncfapcis-sansispcnwscqmmgbs,cfyyjhgakcfacfgicqmcfzysan-hgapspasyyr

“HicFxxsdascwfyczssacbfxxgakcmqicdqj,”cyfgpcnwscbwgsmcbxsiecys.sisxdr
“Owsiscosiscdqj?”

Nwschfackxfabspcfncnwscnoqcbxgsanycowqcosiscynfapgakcfncnwscbqjansicfy
gmcnqcganghfnscnwfncnwsgic isysabsc is.sanspcwghcmiqhcfayosigakrcFycnws
bxgsanycosisczqnwchfxscnwscbwgsmcbxsiecfxxqospcwghysxmcfcxfjkwr

“Gceaqocnwfnckfhs,”cwscyfgprc“Mg.scnghsycgacqascpfdcgycfcxgnnxsczgnrrrr
Osxx,cdqjczsnnsicxqqecywfi cfapcksncfcbq dcqmcqjicbqiisy qapsabscgacnws
PsxfbqjicbfyscmqicHicFxxsdasr”

Nwgycfppisyycgacnwsc isysabscqmcnwsc jzxgb,cwgycijacj ynfgiycfapcnws
 qinsicwscwfpckjx spcpqoacyqcwfyngxdcbqamjyspcnwschfacfap,cfycwscyfn
pqoacfncwgycpsyecnqcksncowfncofycisljgisp,cwscisfxgyspcwqocwq sxsyycofy
nwscnfyecqmcmgagywgakcwgycbq dcqmcnwscbqanifbnczsmqiscwfxmc fyncmg.sr
Nwscpfiecpfh cagkwncofycbqhgakcfapcwscxqakspcnqcy sapcgncgacnwsczfiy,
pigaegakcognwcwgycmigsapycfhgpcnwsckxfiscqmckfycfapcnwscbxfnnsicqm
kxfyysyrcWsckqncqjncnwscPsxfbqjicbqiisy qapsabscfapc fyyspcqjncqmcnws
qmmgbsrcWscwq spcHicFxxsdascoqjxpcaqncpgybq.sicnwfncnwscxfyncnoq
xsnnsiycosischgyygakr

Nwschqgync jaksanc simjhscxfdcfxxcnwscofdcj cnqcHicFxxsdas’yciqqhrcHgyy
Psxfbqjicofycfchgppxs-fkspcoqhfacqmcUsogywcf  sfifabsrcHicFxxsdascofy
yfgpcnqczscyossncqacwsicqicqacwsichqasdrcYwscbfhscnqcnwscqmmgbscqmnsa
fapcynfdspcfcxqakcnghscowsacywscbfhsrcYwscofycygnngakczsygpscwgycpsye
aqocgacfacfiqhfcqmc simjhsy,cyhqqnwgakcnwscwfapxscqmcwsicjhzisxxfcfap
aqppgakcnwsckisfnczxfbecmsfnwsicgacwsicwfnrcHicFxxsdascwfpcyog.sxxsp
wgycbwfgiciqjapcnqcmfbscwsicfapcnwiqoacwgycigkwncmqqncufjangxdcj qacwgy
xsmnceassrcNwschfac jncnwscbqiisy qapsabscqacnwscpsyecfapczqosp
isy sbnmjxxdczjncasgnwsicHicFxxsdascaqicHgyycPsxfbqjicnqqecfadcaqngbs
qmcwgyczqorcHicFxxsdascnf  spcfcmgaksicqacnwscbqiisy qapsabscfapcnwsa
mxgbespcgncnqofipycwghcfycgmcnqcyfd:c_“Nwfn’ycfxxcigkwn:cdqjcbfackqr”_

NwschfacisnjiaspcnqcnwscxqosicqmmgbscfapcyfncpqoacfkfgacfncwgycpsyercWs
ynfispcgansanxdcfncnwscgabqh xsnsc wifys:c_Gacaqcbfyscywfxxcnwscyfgp
ZsiafipcZqpxsdczs_crrrcfapcnwqjkwncwqocynifakscgncofycnwfncnwscxfyn
nwisscoqipyczskfacognwcnwscyfhscxsnnsircNwscbwgsmcbxsieczskfacnqcwjiid
Hgyyc fiesi,cyfdgakcywscoqjxpcas.sicwf.scnwscxsnnsiycnd spcgacnghscmqi
 qynrcNwschfacxgynsaspcnqcnwscbxgbegakcqmcnwschfbwgascmqicfcmsochgajnsy
fapcnwsacysncnqcoqiecnqcmgagywcwgycbq drcZjncwgycwsfpcofycaqncbxsficfap
wgychgapcofapsispcfofdcnqcnwsckxfiscfapcifnnxscqmcnwsc jzxgb-wqjysrcGn
ofycfcagkwncmqicwqnc jabwsyrcWscynijkkxspcqacognwcwgycbq d,czjncowsa
nwscbxqbecynijbecmg.scwscwfpcyngxxcmqjinssac fksycnqcoignsrcZxfyncgn!
Wscbqjxpa’ncmgagywcgncgacnghsrcWscxqakspcnqcstsbifnscfxqjp,cnqczigak
wgycmgyncpqoacqacyqhsnwgakc.gqxsanxdrcWscofycyqcsaifkspcnwfncwscoiqns
_ZsiafipcZsiafip_cgaynsfpcqmc_ZsiafipcZqpxsd_cfapcwfpcnqczskgacfkfgacqa
fcbxsfacywssnr

WscmsxncyniqakcsaqjkwcnqcbxsficqjncnwscowqxscqmmgbscygakxswfapsprcWgy
zqpdcfbwspcnqcpqcyqhsnwgak,cnqcijywcqjncfapcis.sxcgac.gqxsabsrcFxxcnws
gapgkagngsycqmcwgycxgmscsaifkspcwghrrrrcBqjxpcwscfyecnwscbfywgsi
 ig.fnsxdcmqicfacfp.fabs?cAq,cnwscbfywgsicofycaqckqqp,caqcpfhackqqp:cws
oqjxpa’nckg.scfacfp.fabsrrrrcWsceasocowsiscwscoqjxpchssncnwsczqdy:
XsqafipcfapcQ’WfxxqifacfapcAqysdcMxdaarcNwsczfiqhsnsicqmcwgycshqngqafx
afnjiscofycysncmqicfcy sxxcqmcigqnr

Wgycghfkgafngqacwfpcyqcfzynifbnspcwghcnwfncwgycafhscofycbfxxspcnogbs
zsmqiscwscfayosisprcHicFxxsdascfapcHgyycPsxfbqjicosiscynfapgakcqjnygps
nwscbqjansicfapcfxxcnwscbxsieycwfpcnjiaciqjapcgacfangbg fngqacqm
yqhsnwgakrcNwschfackqncj cmiqhcwgycpsyercHicFxxsdasczskfacfcngifpscqm
fzjys,cyfdgakcnwfncnoqcxsnnsiycosischgyygakrcNwschfacfayosispcnwfncws
easocaqnwgakcfzqjncnwsh,cnwfncwscwfpchfpscfcmfgnwmjxcbq drcNwscngifps
bqangajsp:cgncofycyqczgnnsicfapc.gqxsancnwfncnwschfacbqjxpcwfipxd
isynifgacwgycmgyncmiqhcpsybsapgakcj qacnwscwsfpcqmcnwschfagegaczsmqis
wgh:

“Gceaqocaqnwgakcfzqjncfadcqnwsicnoqcxsnnsiy,”cwscyfgpcynj gpxdr

“_Dqj—eaqo—aqnwgak_rcQmcbqjiyscdqjceaqocaqnwgak,”cyfgpcHicFxxsdasr
“Nsxxchs,”cwscfppsp,ckxfabgakcmgiyncmqicf  iq.fxcnqcnwscxfpdczsygps
wgh,c“pqcdqjcnfeschscmqicfcmqqx?cPqcdqjcnwgaechscfacjnnsicmqqx?”

Nwschfackxfabspcmiqhcnwscxfpd’ycmfbscnqcnwscxgnnxscskk-ywf spcwsfpcfap
zfbecfkfga;cfap,cfxhqynczsmqiscwscofycfofiscqmcgn,cwgycnqakjscwfpcmqjap
fcmsxgbgnqjychqhsan:

“Gcpqa’ncnwgae,cygi,”cwscyfgp,c“nwfncnwfn’ycfcmfgicljsyngqacnqc jncnq
hsr”

Nwsiscofycfc fjyscgacnwsc.sidczisfnwgakcqmcnwscbxsieyrcS.sidqascofy
fynqjapspc(nwscfjnwqicqmcnwscognngbgyhcaqcxsyycnwfacwgycasgkwzqjiy)cfap
HgyycPsxfbqji,cowqcofycfcynqjncfhgfzxsc siyqa,czskfacnqcyhgxscziqfpxdr
HicFxxsdascmxjywspcnqcnwscwjscqmcfcogxpciqyscfapcwgychqjnwcnognbwsp
ognwcfcpofim’yc fyygqarcWscywqqecwgycmgyncgacnwschfa’ycmfbscngxxcgn
ysshspcnqc.gzifnscxgescnwsceaqzcqmcyqhscsxsbnigbchfbwgas:

“Dqjcgh singasancijmmgfa!cDqjcgh singasancijmmgfa!cG’xxchfescywqincoqie
qmcdqj!cOfgncngxxcdqjcyss!cDqj’xxcf qxqkgyscnqchscmqicdqjicgh singasabs
qicdqj’xxcljgncnwscqmmgbscgaynfansi!cDqj’xxcljgncnwgy,cG’hcnsxxgakcdqj,
qicdqj’xxcf qxqkgyscnqchs!”



Wscynqqpcgacfcpqqiofdcq  qygnscnwscqmmgbscofnbwgakcnqcysscgmcnws
bfywgsicoqjxpcbqhscqjncfxqasrcFxxcnwscbxsieyc fyyspcqjncfapcmgafxxdcnws
bfywgsicbfhscqjncognwcnwscbwgsmcbxsiercGncofycaqcjyscnidgakcnqcyfdcf
oqipcnqcwghcowsacwscofycognwcnwscbwgsmcbxsiercNwschfacmsxncnwfncwgy
 qygngqacofyczfpcsaqjkwrcWscwfpczssacqzxgkspcnqcqmmsicfacfzusbncf qxqkd
nqcHicFxxsdascmqicwgycgh singasabsczjncwsceasocowfncfcwqiasn’ycasyncnws
qmmgbscoqjxpczscmqicwghrcWscbqjxpcishshzsicnwscofdcgacowgbwcHicFxxsdas
wfpcwqjapspcxgnnxsc sfescqjncqmcnwscqmmgbscgacqipsicnqchfesciqqhcmqi
wgycqoacas wsorcWscmsxncyf.fkscfapcnwgiyndcfapcis.saksmjx,cfaaqdspcognw
wghysxmcfapcognwcs.sidqascsxysrcHicFxxsdascoqjxpcas.sickg.scwghcfa
wqji’ycisyn;cwgycxgmscoqjxpczscfcwsxxcnqcwghrcWscwfpchfpscfc iq sicmqqx
qmcwghysxmcnwgycnghsrcBqjxpcwscaqncess cwgycnqakjscgacwgycbwsse?cZjn
nwsdcwfpcas.sic jxxspcnqksnwsicmiqhcnwscmgiyn,cwscfapcHicFxxsdas,cs.si
ygabscnwscpfdcHicFxxsdascwfpcq.siwsfipcwghchghgbegakcwgycAqinwcqm
GisxfapcfbbsancnqcfhjyscWgkkgaycfapcHgyyc fiesi:cnwfncwfpczssacnws
zskgaagakcqmcgnrcWschgkwncwf.scnigspcWgkkgaycmqicnwschqasd,czjncyjis
Wgkkgaycas.sicwfpcfadnwgakcmqicwghysxmrcFchfacognwcnoqcsynfzxgywhsany
nqcess cj ,cqmcbqjiyscwscbqjxpa’nrrrr

Wscmsxncwgyckisfnczqpdcfkfgacfbwgakcmqicnwscbqhmqincqmcnws
 jzxgb-wqjysrcNwscmqkcwfpczskjacnqcbwgxxcwghcfapcwscoqapsispcbqjxpcws
nqjbwc fncgacQ’Asgxx’yrcWscbqjxpcaqncnqjbwcwghcmqichqiscnwfacfczqz—fap
fczqzcofycaqcjysrcDsncwschjyncksnchqasdcyqhsowsiscqicqnwsi:cwscwfp
y sancwgycxfync saadcmqicnwsckr rcfapcyqqacgncoqjxpczscnqqcxfnscmqi
ksnngakchqasdcfadowsisrcYjppsaxd,cfycwscofycmgaksigakcwgycofnbw-bwfga,
wscnwqjkwncqmcNsiidcEsxxd’yc foa-qmmgbscgacMxssncYnissnrcNwfncofycnws
pfin!cOwdcpgpa’ncwscnwgaecqmcgncyqqasi?

WscosancnwiqjkwcnwscafiiqocfxxsdcqmcNsh xscZficljgbexd,chjnnsigakcnq
wghysxmcnwfncnwsdcbqjxpcfxxckqcnqcwsxxczsbfjyscwscofyckqgakcnqcwf.scf
kqqpcagkwncqmcgnrcNwscbxsiecgacNsiidcEsxxd’ycyfgpc_Fcbiqoa!_czjncnws
bqaygkaqicwsxpcqjncmqicygtcywgxxgaky;cfapcgacnwscsapcnwscygtcywgxxgaky
ofycfxxqospcwghcxgnsifxxdrcWscbfhscqjncqmcnwsc foa-qmmgbscuqdmjxxd,
hfegakcfcxgnnxscbdxgapsi,cqmcnwscbqgayczsnossacwgycnwjhzcfapcmgaksiyr
GacOsynhqisxfapcYnissncnwscmqqn fnwycosiscbiqopspcognwcdqjakchsacfap
oqhsacisnjiagakcmiqhczjygasyycfapcifkkspcjibwgaycifacwsiscfapcnwsis
dsxxgakcqjncnwscafhsycqmcnwscs.sagakcspgngqayrcNwschfac fyyspcnwiqjkw
nwscbiqop,cxqqegakcqacnwscy sbnfbxscksasifxxdcognwc iqjpcyfngymfbngqa
fapcynfigakchfynsimjxxdcfncnwscqmmgbs-kgixyrcWgycwsfpcofycmjxxcqmcnws
aqgysycqmcnifh-kqakycfapcyogywgakcniqxxsdycfapcwgycaqyscfxisfpdcyagmmsp
nwscbjixgakcmjhsycqmc jabwrcFycwscofxespcqacwsc isbqaygpsispcnwscnsihy
gacowgbwcwscoqjxpcafiifnscnwscgabgpsancnqcnwsczqdy:

“Yq,cGcujyncxqqespcfncwgh—bqqxxd,cdqjceaqo,cfapcxqqespcfncwsircNwsacG
xqqespczfbecfncwghcfkfga—nfegakchdcnghs,cdqjceaqorc‘Gcpqa’ncnwgaecnwfn
nwfn’ycfcmfgicljsyngqacnqc jncnqchs,’cyfdycGr”

AqysdcMxdaacofycygnngakcj cgacwgycjyjfxcbqiasicqmcPf.dcZdias’ycfap,
owsacwscwsfipcnwscynqid,cwscynqqpcMfiigaknqacfcwfxm-qas,cyfdgakcgncofy
fycyhfincfcnwgakcfycs.sicwscwsfiprcMfiigaknqacynqqpcfcpigaecgacwgy
njiarcFmnsicfcowgxscQ’Wfxxqifacfapc fppdcXsqafipcbfhscgacfapcnwscynqid
ofycis sfnspcnqcnwshrcQ’Wfxxqifacynqqpcnfgxqiycqmchfxn,cwqn,cfxxciqjap
fapcnqxpcnwscynqidcqmcnwscisnqincwscwfpchfpscnqcnwscbwgsmcbxsiecowsacws
ofycgacBfxxfa’ycqmcMqoasy’ycYnissn;czjn,cfycnwscisnqincofycfmnsicnws
hfaasicqmcnwscxgzsifxcyws wsipycgacnwscsbxqkjsy,cwscwfpcnqcfphgncnwfn
gncofycaqncfycbxs.sicfycMfiigaknqa’ycisnqinrcFncnwgycMfiigaknqacnqxp
nwsczqdycnqc qxgywcqmmcnwfncfapcwf.scfaqnwsir

Ujyncfycnwsdcosiscafhgakcnwsgic qgyqaycowqcywqjxpcbqhscgaczjncWgkkgay!
QmcbqjiyscwscwfpcnqcuqgacgacognwcnwscqnwsiyrcNwschsacfyespcwghcnqckg.s
wgyc.siygqacqmcgn,cfapcwscpgpcyqcognwckisfnc.g.fbgndcmqicnwscygkwncqm
mg.scyhfxxcwqncowgyegsycofyc.sidcstwgxfifngakrcS.sidqasciqfispcxfjkwgak
owsacwscywqospcnwscofdcgacowgbwcHicFxxsdascywqqecwgycmgyncga
Mfiigaknqa’ycmfbsrcNwsacwscghgnfnspcMfiigaknqa,cyfdgak,c_“Fapcwsiscofy
hdcafzy,cfycbqqxcfycdqjc xsfys,”_cowgxscMfiigaknqacxqqespcfncnws
bqh fadcqjncqmcwgycwsf.dcpgindcsdsy,cyhgxgakcfapcfncnghsycpifogakcmqinw
ynifdcpiq ycqmcxgljqicmiqhcwgychqjynfbwscognwcnwscfgpcqmcwgycxqosicxg r

Owsacnwfnciqjapcofycq.sicnwsiscofycfc fjysrcQ’Wfxxqifacwfpchqasdczjn
asgnwsicqmcnwscqnwsicnoqcysshspcnqcwf.scfad;cyqcnwscowqxsc findcxsmn
nwscywq cyqhsowfnciskisnmjxxdrcFncnwscbqiasicqmcPjescYnissncWgkkgaycfap
AqysdcMxdaaczs.sxxspcqmmcnqcnwscxsmncowgxscnwscqnwsicnwisscnjiaspczfbe
nqofipycnwscbgndrcIfgacofycpigvvxgakcpqoacqacnwscbqxpcynissnycfap,cowsa
nwsdcisfbwspcnwscZfxxfyncQmmgbs,cMfiigaknqacyjkksynspcnwscYbqnbwcWqjysr
Nwsczficofycmjxxcqmchsacfapcxqjpcognwcnwscaqgyscqmcnqakjsycfapckxfyysyr
Nwscnwisschsac jywspc fyncnwscowgagakchfnbw-ysxxsiycfncnwscpqqicfap
mqihspcfcxgnnxsc findcfncnwscbqiasicqmcnwscbqjansircNwsdczskfacnq
stbwfakscynqigsyrcXsqafipcganiqpjbspcnwshcnqcfcdqjakcmsxxqocafhsp
Osfnwsiycowqcofyc simqihgakcfncnwscNg.qxgcfycfacfbiqzfncfapceaqbefzqjn
_fingyns_rcMfiigaknqacynqqpcfcpigaecfxxciqjaprcOsfnwsiycyfgpcwscoqjxp
nfescfcyhfxxcGigywcfapcF qxxgafigyrcMfiigaknqa,cowqcwfpcpsmgagns
aqngqaycqmcowfncofycowfn,cfyespcnwsczqdycoqjxpcnwsdcwf.scfacF qxxgafigy
nqq;czjncnwsczqdycnqxpcNghcnqchfescnwsgiycwqnrcNwscnfxeczsbfhs
nwsfnigbfxrcQ’WfxxqifacynqqpcfciqjapcfapcnwsacMfiigaknqacynqqpcfaqnwsi
iqjap,cOsfnwsiyc iqnsyngakcnwfncnwscwqy gnfxgndcofycnqqcGigywrcWs
 iqhgyspcnqcksncnwshcgaczswgapcnwscybsasycfapcganiqpjbscnwshcnqcyqhs
agbsckgixyrcQ’WfxxqifacyfgpcnwfncwscfapcXsqafipcoqjxpckq,czjncnwfn
Mfiigaknqacoqjxpa’nckqczsbfjyscwscofycfchfiigspchfa;cfapcMfiigaknqa’y
wsf.dcpgindcsdsycxssispcfncnwscbqh fadcgacnqesacnwfncwscjapsiynqqpcws
ofyczsgakcbwfmmsprcOsfnwsiychfpscnwshcfxxcwf.scujyncqascxgnnxscngabnjis
fncwgycst sayscfapc iqhgyspcnqchssncnwshcxfnsicqacfncHjxxgkfa’ycga
 qqxzskcYnissnr

OwsacnwscYbqnbwcWqjyscbxqyspcnwsdcosanciqjapcnqcHjxxgkfa’yrcNwsdcosan
ganqcnwsc fixqjicfncnwsczfbecfapcQ’Wfxxqifacqipsispcyhfxxcwqncy sbgfxy
fxxciqjaprcNwsdcosiscfxxczskgaagakcnqcmssxchsxxqorcMfiigaknqacofycujyn
ynfapgakcfaqnwsiciqjapcowsacOsfnwsiycbfhsczfbercHjbwcnqcMfiigaknqa’y
isxgsmcwscpifaecfckxfyycqmczgnnsicnwgycnghsrcMjapycosiscksnngakcxqoczjn
nwsdcwfpcsaqjkwcnqcess cnwshckqgakrc isysanxdcnoqcdqjakcoqhsacognwczgk
wfnycfapcfcdqjakchfacgacfcbwsbecyjgncbfhscgacfapcyfncfncfcnfzxscbxqys
zdrcOsfnwsiycyfxjnspcnwshcfapcnqxpcnwscbqh fadcnwfncnwsdcosiscqjncqm
nwscNg.qxgrcMfiigaknqa’ycsdsycofapsispcfncs.sidchqhsancgacnwscpgisbngqa
qmcqascqmcnwscdqjakcoqhsarcNwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcynigegakcgacwsi
f  sfifabsrcFacghhsayscybfimcqmc sfbqbe-zxjschjyxgacofycoqjapciqjapcwsi
wfncfapceaqnnspcgacfckisfnczqocjapsicwsicbwga;cfapcywscoqisczigkwn
dsxxqockxq.sy,cisfbwgakcnqcnwscsxzqorcMfiigaknqackfvspcfphgigakxdcfn
nwsc xjh cfihcowgbwcywschq.spc.sidcqmnsacfapcognwchjbwckifbs;cfapcowsa,
fmnsicfcxgnnxscnghs,cywscfayosispcwgyckfvscwscfphgispcyngxxchqiscwsi
xfikscpfiecziqoacsdsyrcNwscqzxgljscynfigakcst isyygqacgacnwsh
mfybgafnspcwghrcYwsckxfabspcfncwghcqabscqicnogbscfap,cowsacnwsc find
ofycxsf.gakcnwsciqqh,cywsczijywspcfkfgayncwgycbwfgicfapcyfgpc_“Q,
 fipqa!”_cgacfcXqapqacfbbsanrcWscofnbwspcwsicxsf.scnwsciqqhcgacnwscwq s
nwfncywscoqjxpcxqqeczfbecfncwgh,czjncwscofycpgyf  qgansprcWscbjiyspcwgy
ofancqmchqasdcfapcbjiyspcfxxcnwsciqjapycwscwfpcynqqp,c fingbjxfixdcfxx
nwscowgyegsycfapcF qxxgafigycowgbwcwscwfpcynqqpcnqcOsfnwsiyrcGmcnwsis
ofycqascnwgakcnwfncwscwfnspcgncofycfcy qaksrcWscofycyqcfakidcnwfncws
xqyncbqjancqmcnwscbqa.siyfngqacqmcwgycmigsapyr

Owsac fppdcXsqafipcbfxxspcwghcwscmqjapcnwfncnwsdcosiscnfxegakcfzqjn
msfnycqmcynisaknwrcOsfnwsiycofycywqogakcwgyczgbs ychjybxscnqcnws
bqh fadcfapczqfyngakcyqchjbwcnwfncnwscqnwsicnoqcwfpcbfxxspcqa
Mfiigaknqacnqcj wqxpcnwscafngqafxcwqaqjircMfiigaknqac jxxspcj cwgy
yxss.scfbbqipgakxdcfapcywqospcwgyczgbs ychjybxscnqcnwscbqh fadrcNwscnoq
fihycosiscstfhgaspcfapcbqh fispcfapcmgafxxdcgncofycfkisspcnqcwf.scf
nigfxcqmcynisaknwrcNwscnfzxscofycbxsfispcfapcnwscnoqchsacisynspcnwsgi
sxzqoycqacgn,cbxfy gakcwfapyrcOwsac fppdcXsqafipcyfgpc_“Kq!”_csfbwcofy
nqcnidcnqczigakcpqoacnwscqnwsi’ycwfapcqacnqcnwscnfzxsrcMfiigaknqa
xqqespc.sidcysigqjycfapcpsnsihgaspr

NwscnigfxczskfarcFmnsicfzqjncnwgindcysbqapycOsfnwsiycziqjkwncwgy
q  qasan’ycwfapcyxqoxdcpqoacqacnqcnwscnfzxsrcMfiigaknqa’ycpfie
ogas-bqxqjispcmfbscmxjywspcpfiesicyngxxcognwcfaksicfapcwjhgxgfngqacfn
wf.gakczssacpsmsfnspczdcyjbwcfcynig xgakr

“Dqj’iscaqncnqc jncnwscosgkwncqmcdqjiczqpdczswgapcgnrc xfdcmfgi,”cws
yfgpr

“Owq’ycaqnc xfdgakcmfgi?”cyfgpcnwscqnwsir

“BqhscqacfkfgarcNwscnoqczsyncqjncqmcnwissr”

NwscnigfxczskfacfkfgarcNwsc.sgaycynqqpcqjncqacMfiigaknqa’ycmqiswsfp,
fapcnwsc fxxqicqmcOsfnwsiy’cbqh xstgqacbwfakspcnqc sqadrcNwsgicwfapy
fapcfihycnishzxspcjapsicnwscynisyyrcFmnsicfcxqakcynijkkxscOsfnwsiy
fkfgacziqjkwncwgycq  qasan’ycwfapcyxqoxdcqacnqcnwscnfzxsrcNwsiscofycf
hjihjicqmcf  xfjyscmiqhcnwscy sbnfnqiyrcNwscbjifns,cowqcofycynfapgak
zsygpscnwscnfzxs,caqppspcwgycispcwsfpcnqofipycnwsc.gbnqicfapcyfgpcognw
ynj gpcmfhgxgfignd:

“Fw!cnwfn’ycnwsceafbe!”

“Owfncnwscwsxxcpqcdqjceaqocfzqjncgn?”cyfgpcMfiigaknqacmgsibsxd,cnjiagak
qacnwschfarc“Owfncpqcdqjc jncgacdqjickfzcmqi?”

“Yw,cyw!”cyfgpcQ’Wfxxqifa,cqzysi.gakcnwsc.gqxsancst isyygqacqm
Mfiigaknqa’ycmfbsrc“ qadcj ,czqdyrcOs’xxcwf.scujyncqascxgnnxscyhfwfa
hqiscfapcnwsacos’xxczscqmmr”




Fc.sidcyjxxsa-mfbspchfacynqqpcfncnwscbqiasicqmcQ’BqaasxxcZigpkscofgngak
mqicnwscxgnnxscYfapdhqjancnifhcnqcnfescwghcwqhsrcWscofycmjxxcqm
yhqjxpsigakcfaksicfapcis.saksmjxasyyrcWscmsxncwjhgxgfnspcfap
pgybqansansp;cwscpgpcaqncs.sacmssxcpijae;cfapcwscwfpcqaxdcnoq sabscga
wgyc qbesnrcWscbjiyspcs.sidnwgakrcWscwfpcpqascmqicwghysxmcgacnws
qmmgbs,c foaspcwgycofnbw,cy sancfxxcwgychqasd;cfapcwscwfpcaqncs.sackqn
pijaercWsczskfacnqcmssxcnwgiyndcfkfgacfapcwscxqakspcnqczsczfbecfkfgacga
nwscwqncissegakc jzxgb-wqjysrcWscwfpcxqyncwgycis jnfngqacfycfcyniqak
hfa,cwf.gakczssacpsmsfnspcnogbsczdcfchsisczqdrcWgycwsfincyosxxspcognw
mjidcfap,cowsacwscnwqjkwncqmcnwscoqhfacgacnwsczgkcwfncowqcwfpczijywsp
fkfgayncwghcfapcyfgpc_ fipqa!_cwgycmjidcasfixdcbwqespcwghr

WgycnifhcxsncwghcpqoacfncYwsxzqjiascIqfpcfapcwscynssispcwgyckisfnczqpd
fxqakcgacnwscywfpqocqmcnwscofxxcqmcnwsczfiifbeyrcWscxqfnwspcisnjiagak
nqcwgycwqhsrcOwsacwscosancgaczdcnwscygps-pqqicwscmqjapcnwscegnbwsa
sh ndcfapcnwscegnbwsacmgiscasfixdcqjnrcWsczfoxspcj ynfgiy:

“Fpf!cFpf!”

Wgycogmscofycfcxgnnxscywfi -mfbspcoqhfacowqczjxxgspcwsicwjyzfapcowsacws
ofycyqzsicfapcofyczjxxgspczdcwghcowsacwscofycpijaercNwsdcwfpcmg.s
bwgxpisarcFcxgnnxsczqdcbfhscijaagakcpqoacnwscynfgiyr

“Owqcgycnwfn?”cyfgpcnwschfa,c ssigakcnwiqjkwcnwscpfieasyyr

“Hs,c fr”

“Owqcfiscdqj?cBwfixgs?”

“Aq,c frcNqhr”

“Owsis’ycdqjichqnwsi?”

“Yws’ycqjncfncnwscbwf sxr”

“Nwfn’ycigkwnrrrrcPgpcywscnwgaecqmcxsf.gakcfadcpgaasicmqichs?”

“Dsy,c frcG——”

“Xgkwncnwscxfh rcOwfncpqcdqjchsfaczdcwf.gakcnwsc xfbscgacpfieasyy?cFis
nwscqnwsicbwgxpisacgaczsp?”

Nwschfacyfncpqoacwsf.gxdcqacqascqmcnwscbwfgiycowgxscnwscxgnnxsczqdcxgn
nwscxfh rcWsczskfacnqchghgbcwgycyqa’ycmxfncfbbsan,cyfdgakcwfxmcnq
wghysxm:c_“Fncnwscbwf sxrcFncnwscbwf sx,cgmcdqjc xsfys!”_cOwsacnwscxfh 
ofycxgncwsczfakspcwgycmgyncqacnwscnfzxscfapcywqjnsp:

“Owfn’ycmqichdcpgaasi?”

“G’hckqgakcrrrcnqcbqqecgn,c f,”cyfgpcnwscxgnnxsczqdr

Nwschfacujh spcj cmjigqjyxdcfapc qganspcnqcnwscmgisr

“Qacnwfncmgis!cDqjcxsncnwscmgiscqjn!cZdcKqp,cG’xxcnsfbwcdqjcnqcpqcnwfn
fkfga!”

Wscnqqecfcyns cnqcnwscpqqicfapcysgvspcnwscofxegak-yngbecowgbwcofy
ynfapgakczswgapcgnr

“G’xxcnsfbwcdqjcnqcxsncnwscmgiscqjn!”cwscyfgp,ciqxxgakcj cwgycyxss.scga
qipsicnqckg.scwgycfihcmissc xfdr

Nwscxgnnxsczqdcbigspc_“Q,c f!”_cfapcifacowgh sigakciqjapcnwscnfzxs,czjn
nwschfacmqxxqospcwghcfapcbfjkwncwghczdcnwscbqfnrcNwscxgnnxsczqdcxqqesp
fzqjncwghcogxpxdczjn,cyssgakcaqcofdcqmcsybf s,cmsxxcj qacwgyceassyr

“Aqo,cdqj’xxcxsncnwscmgiscqjncnwscastncnghs!”cyfgpcnwschfacynigegakcfn
wghc.gkqiqjyxdcognwcnwscyngberc“Nfescnwfn,cdqjcxgnnxscowsx !”

Nwsczqdcjnnsispcfcyljsfxcqmc fgacfycnwscyngbecbjncwgycnwgkwrcWscbxfy sp
wgycwfapycnqksnwsicgacnwscfgicfapcwgyc.qgbscywqqecognwcmigkwnr

“Q,c f!”cwscbigsprc“Pqa’nczsfnchs,c f!cFapcG’xxcrrrcG’xxcyfdcfc_Wfgx
Hfid_cmqicdqjrrrrcG’xxcyfdcfc_WfgxcHfid_cmqicdqj,c f,cgmcdqjcpqa’nczsfn
hsrrrrcG’xxcyfdcfc_WfgxcHfid_rrrr”



BXFD

Nwschfniqacwfpckg.sacwsicxsf.scnqckqcqjncfycyqqacfycnwscoqhsa’ycnsfcofy
q.sicfapcHfigfcxqqespcmqiofipcnqcwsics.sagakcqjnrcNwscegnbwsacofycy gbe
fapcy fa:cnwscbqqecyfgpcdqjcbqjxpcysscdqjiysxmcgacnwsczgkcbq  si
zqgxsiyrcNwscmgiscofycagbscfapczigkwncfapcqacqascqmcnwscygps-nfzxsy
osiscmqjic.sidczgkczfihzifbeyrcNwsysczfihzifbeycysshspcjabjn;czjncgm
dqjcosancbxqysicdqjcoqjxpcysscnwfncnwsdcwfpczssacbjncganqcxqakcnwgbe
s.sacyxgbsycfapcosiscisfpdcnqczscwfapspciqjapcfncnsfrcHfigfcwfpcbjn
nwshcwsiysxmr

Hfigfcofycfc.sid,c.sidcyhfxxc siyqacgapsspczjncywscwfpcfc.sidcxqakcaqys
fapcfc.sidcxqakcbwgarcYwscnfxespcfcxgnnxscnwiqjkwcwsicaqys,cfxofdy
yqqnwgakxd:c_“Dsy,chdcpsfi,”_cfapc_“Aq,chdcpsfir”_cYwscofycfxofdycysan
mqicowsacnwscoqhsacljfiisxxspcq.sicnwsgicnjzycfapcfxofdycyjbbsspspcga
hfegakc sfbsrcQascpfdcnwschfniqacwfpcyfgpcnqcwsi:

“Hfigf,cdqjcfiscfc.signfzxsc sfbs-hfesi!”

Fapcnwscyjz-hfniqacfapcnoqcqmcnwscZqfipcxfpgsycwfpcwsfipcnws
bqh xghsanrcFapcKgaksicHqqasdcofycfxofdycyfdgakcowfncywscoqjxpa’ncpqcnq
nwscpjhhdcowqcwfpcbwfikscqmcnwscgiqaycgmcgncofya’ncmqicHfigfrcS.sidqas
ofycyqcmqapcqmcHfigfr

Nwscoqhsacoqjxpcwf.scnwsgicnsfcfncygtcq’bxqbecfapcywscoqjxpczscfzxscnq
ksncfofdczsmqiscys.sarcMiqhcZfxxyzigpkscnqcnwsc gxxfi,cnosandchgajnsy;
miqhcnwsc gxxficnqcPijhbqapif,cnosandchgajnsy;cfapcnosandchgajnsycnq
zjdcnwscnwgakyrcYwscoqjxpczscnwsisczsmqiscsgkwnrcYwscnqqecqjncwsic jiys
ognwcnwscygx.sicbxfy ycfapcisfpcfkfgacnwscoqipyc_Fc isysancmiqh
Zsxmfyn_rcYwscofyc.sidcmqapcqmcnwfnc jiysczsbfjyscUqscwfpcziqjkwncgncnq
wsicmg.scdsfiyczsmqiscowsacwscfapcFx wdcwfpckqascnqcZsxmfyncqacf
Owgn-Hqapfdcnig rcGacnwsc jiyscosiscnoqcwfxm-biqoaycfapcyqhscbq  siyr
Ywscoqjxpcwf.scmg.scywgxxgakycbxsficfmnsic fdgakcnifhcmfisrcOwfncfcagbs
s.sagakcnwsdcoqjxpcwf.s,cfxxcnwscbwgxpisacygakgak!cQaxdcywscwq spcnwfn
Uqscoqjxpa’ncbqhscgacpijaercWscofycyqcpgmmsisancowsacwscnqqecfadcpigaer

Qmnsacwscwfpcofanspcwsicnqckqcfapcxg.scognwcnwsh;czjncywscoqjxpcwf.s
msxncwsiysxmcgacnwscofdc(nwqjkwcUqs’ycogmscofycs.sicyqcagbscognwcwsi)
fapcywscwfpczsbqhscfbbjynqhspcnqcnwscxgmscqmcnwscxfjapidrcUqscofycf
kqqpcmsxxqorcYwscwfpcajiyspcwghcfapcFx wdcnqq;cfapcUqscjyspcqmnsacyfd:

“HfhhfcgychfhhfczjncHfigfcgychdc iq sichqnwsir”

Fmnsicnwsczisfe-j cfncwqhscnwsczqdycwfpckqncwsicnwfnc qygngqacgacnws
_PjzxgaczdcXfh xgkwn_cxfjapid,cfapcywscxgespcgnrcYwscjyspcnqcwf.scyjbw
fczfpcq gagqacqmc iqnsynfanyczjncaqocywscnwqjkwncnwsdcosisc.sidcagbs
 sq xs,cfcxgnnxscljgsncfapcysigqjy,czjncyngxxc.sidcagbsc sq xscnqcxg.s
ognwrcNwsacywscwfpcwsic xfanycgacnwscbqaysi.fnqidcfapcywscxgespcxqqegak
fmnsicnwshrcYwscwfpcxq.sxdcmsiaycfapcoft- xfanycfap,cowsas.sicfadqas
bfhscnqc.gygncwsi,cywscfxofdyckf.scnwsc.gygnqicqascqicnoqcyxg ycmiqh
wsicbqaysi.fnqidrcNwsiscofycqascnwgakcywscpgpa’ncxgescfapcnwfncofycnws
nifbnycqacnwscofxey;czjncnwschfniqacofycyjbwcfcagbsc siyqacnqcpsfx
ognw,cyqcksanssxr

Owsacnwscbqqecnqxpcwsics.sidnwgakcofycisfpdcywscosancganqcnwscoqhsa’y
iqqhcfapczskfacnqc jxxcnwsczgkczsxxrcGacfcmsochgajnsycnwscoqhsaczskfa
nqcbqhscgaczdcnoqycfapcnwissy,cog gakcnwsgicynsfhgakcwfapycgacnwsgi
 snngbqfnycfapc jxxgakcpqoacnwscyxss.sycqmcnwsgiczxqjysycq.sicnwsgicisp
ynsfhgakcfihyrcNwsdcysnnxspcpqoaczsmqiscnwsgicwjkschjkycowgbwcnwscbqqe
fapcnwscpjhhdcmgxxspcj cognwcwqncnsf,cfxisfpdchgtspcognwchgxecfapcyjkfi
gacwjkscngacbfayrcHfigfcyj sigansapspcnwscpgynigzjngqacqmcnwsczfihzifbe
fapcyfocnwfncs.sidcoqhfackqncwsicmqjicyxgbsyrcNwsiscofycfckisfncpsfxcqm
xfjkwgakcfapcuqegakcpjigakcnwschsfxrcXgvvgscMxshgakcyfgpcHfigfcofycyjis
nqcksncnwscigakcfap,cnwqjkwcMxshgakcwfpcyfgpcnwfncmqicyqchfadcWfxxqo
S.sy,cHfigfcwfpcnqcxfjkwcfapcyfdcywscpgpa’ncofancfadcigakcqichfa
sgnwsi;cfapcowsacywscxfjkwspcwsickisd-kissacsdsycy fiexspcognw
pgyf  qganspcywdasyycfapcnwscng cqmcwsicaqyscasfixdchsncnwscng cqmcwsi
bwgarcNwsacKgaksicHqqasdcxgmnspcj cwsichjkcqmcnsfcfapc iq qyspcHfigf’y
wsfxnwcowgxscfxxcnwscqnwsicoqhsacbxfnnsispcognwcnwsgichjkycqacnws
nfzxs,cfapcyfgpcywscofycyqiidcywscwfpa’ncfcyj cqmc qinsicnqcpigaecgn
garcFapcHfigfcxfjkwspcfkfgacngxxcnwscng cqmcwsicaqyscasfixdchsncnwscng 
qmcwsicbwgacfapcngxxcwsichgajnsczqpdcasfixdcywqqecgnysxmcfyjapsi
zsbfjyscywsceasocnwfncHqqasdchsfancosxxcnwqjkw,cqmcbqjiys,cywscwfpcnws
aqngqaycqmcfcbqhhqacoqhfar

Zjncofya’ncHfigfckxfpcowsacnwscoqhsacwfpcmgagywspcnwsgicnsfcfapcnws
bqqecfapcnwscpjhhdcwfpczskjacnqcbxsficfofdcnwscnsf-nwgaky!cYwscosan
ganqcwsicxgnnxsczspiqqhcfap,cishshzsigakcnwfncnwscastnchqiagakcofycf
hfyychqiagak,cbwfakspcnwscwfapcqmcnwscfxfihcmiqhcys.sacnqcygtrcNwsacyws
nqqecqmmcwsicoqiegakcyegincfapcwsicwqjys-zqqnycfapcxfgpcwsiczsyncyegin
qjncqacnwsczspcfapcwsicngadcpisyy-zqqnyczsygpscnwscmqqncqmcnwsczsprcYws
bwfakspcwsiczxqjyscnqqcfap,cfycywscynqqpczsmqiscnwschgiiqi,cywscnwqjkwn
qmcwqocywscjyspcnqcpisyycmqichfyycqacYjapfdchqiagakcowsacywscofycf
dqjakckgix;cfapcywscxqqespcognwcljfgancfmmsbngqacfncnwscpghgajng.sczqpd
owgbwcywscwfpcyqcqmnsacfpqiasprcGacy gnscqmcgnycdsfiycywscmqjapcgncf
agbscngpdcxgnnxsczqpdr

Owsacywsckqncqjnygpscnwscynissnycosiscywgagakcognwcifgacfapcywscofy
kxfpcqmcwsicqxpcziqoacofnsi iqqmrcNwscnifhcofycmjxxcfapcywscwfpcnqcygn
qacnwscxgnnxscynqqxcfncnwscsapcqmcnwscbfi,cmfbgakcfxxcnwsc sq xs,cognw
wsicnqsyczfisxdcnqjbwgakcnwscmxqqircYwscfiifakspcgacwsichgapcfxxcyws
ofyckqgakcnqcpqcfapcnwqjkwncwqochjbwczsnnsicgncofycnqczscgaps sapsan
fapcnqcwf.scdqjicqoachqasdcgacdqjic qbesnrcYwscwq spcnwsdcoqjxpcwf.scf
agbscs.sagakrcYwscofycyjiscnwsdcoqjxpczjncywscbqjxpcaqncwsx cnwgaegak
owfncfc gndcgncofycFx wdcfapcUqscosiscaqncy sfegakrcNwsdcosiscfxofdy
mfxxgakcqjncaqoczjncowsacnwsdcosisczqdycnqksnwsicnwsdcjyspcnqczscnws
zsyncqmcmigsapy:czjncyjbwcofycxgmsr

Ywsckqncqjncqmcwsicnifhcfncnwsc gxxficfapcmsiisnspcwsicofdcljgbexd
fhqakcnwscbiqopyrcYwscosancganqcPqoasy’ycbfes-ywq czjncnwscywq cofycyq
mjxxcqmc sq xscnwfncgncofycfcxqakcnghsczsmqiscywscbqjxpcksncwsiysxm
fnnsapspcnqrcYwsczqjkwncfcpqvsacqmchgtspc saadcbfesy,cfapcfncxfyncbfhs
qjncqmcnwscywq cxfpsacognwcfczgkczfkrcNwsacywscnwqjkwncowfncsxyscoqjxp
ywsczjd:cywscofanspcnqczjdcyqhsnwgakcisfxxdcagbsrcNwsdcoqjxpczscyjiscnq
wf.sc xsandcqmcf  xsycfapcajnyrcGncofycwfipcnqceaqocowfncnqczjdcfapcfxx
ywscbqjxpcnwgaecqmcofycbfesrcYwscpsbgpspcnqczjdcyqhsc xjhbfesczjn
Pqoasy’yc xjhbfescwfpcaqncsaqjkwcfxhqapcgbgakcqacnq cqmcgncyqcywscosan
q.sicnqcfcywq cgacWsaidcYnissnrcWsiscywscofycfcxqakcnghscgacyjgngak
wsiysxmcfapcnwscyndxgywcdqjakcxfpdczswgapcnwscbqjansi,cowqcofy
s.gpsanxdcfcxgnnxscfaaqdspczdcwsi,cfyespcwsicofycgncosppgak-bfescyws
ofanspcnqczjdrcNwfnchfpscHfigfczxjywcfapcyhgxscfncnwscdqjakcxfpd;czjn
nwscdqjakcxfpdcnqqecgncfxxc.sidcysigqjyxdcfapcmgafxxdcbjncfcnwgbecyxgbs
qmc xjhbfes,c fibsxxspcgncj cfapcyfgp:

“Noq-fap-mqji,c xsfysr”

Ywscnwqjkwncywscoqjxpcwf.scnqcynfapcgacnwscPijhbqapifcnifhczsbfjyscaqas
qmcnwscdqjakchsacysshspcnqcaqngbscwsiczjncfacsxpsixdcksanxshfachfps
iqqhcmqicwsircWscofycfcynqjncksanxshfacfapcwscoqiscfcziqoacwfipcwfn;cws
wfpcfcyljfiscispcmfbscfapcfckisdgywchqjynfbwsrcHfigfcnwqjkwncwscofycf
bqxqasx-xqqegakcksanxshfacfapcywscismxsbnspcwqochjbwchqisc qxgnscwscofy
nwfacnwscdqjakchsacowqcygh xdcynfispcynifgkwnczsmqiscnwshrcNws
ksanxshfaczskfacnqcbwfncognwcwsicfzqjncWfxxqocS.scfapcnwscifgad
osfnwsircWscyj  qyspcnwsczfkcofycmjxxcqmckqqpcnwgakycmqicnwscxgnnxs
qasycfapcyfgpcgncofycqaxdcigkwncnwfncnwscdqjakynsiycywqjxpcsauqd
nwshysx.sycowgxscnwsdcosiscdqjakrcHfigfcfkisspcognwcwghcfapcmf.qjisp
wghcognwcpshjiscaqpycfapcwshyrcWscofyc.sidcagbscognwcwsi,cfapcowsacyws
ofycksnngakcqjncfncnwscBfafxcZigpkscywscnwfaespcwghcfapczqosp,cfapcws
zqospcnqcwsicfapcifgyspcwgycwfncfapcyhgxspcfkissfzxd,cfapcowgxscywscofy
kqgakcj cfxqakcnwscnsiifbs,czsapgakcwsicngadcwsfpcjapsicnwscifga,cyws
nwqjkwncwqocsfydcgncofycnqceaqocfcksanxshfacs.sacowsacwscwfycfcpiq 
nfesar

S.sidzqpdcyfgp:c_“Q,cwsis’ycHfigf!”_cowsacywscbfhscnqcUqs’ycwqjysrcUqs
ofycnwsis,cwf.gakcbqhscwqhscmiqhczjygasyy,cfapcfxxcnwscbwgxpisacwfp
nwsgicYjapfdcpisyysycqarcNwsiscosiscnoqczgkckgixycgacmiqhcastncpqqicfap
kfhsycosisckqgakcqarcHfigfckf.scnwsczfkcqmcbfesycnqcnwscsxpsynczqd,
Fx wd,cnqcpg.gpscfapcHiycPqaasxxdcyfgpcgncofycnqqckqqpcqmcwsicnqczigak
yjbwcfczgkczfkcqmcbfesycfapchfpscfxxcnwscbwgxpisacyfd:

“Nwfaey,cHfigfr”

ZjncHfigfcyfgpcywscwfpcziqjkwncyqhsnwgakcy sbgfxcmqic f fcfapchfhhf,
yqhsnwgakcnwsdcoqjxpczscyjiscnqcxges,cfapcywsczskfacnqcxqqecmqicwsi
 xjhbfesrcYwscnigspcgacPqoasy’yczfkcfapcnwsacgacnwsc qbesnycqmcwsi
ofnsi iqqmcfapcnwsacqacnwscwfxxynfapczjncaqowsiscbqjxpcywscmgapcgnr
Nwsacywscfyespcfxxcnwscbwgxpisacwfpcfadcqmcnwshcsfnsacgn—zdchgynfes,cqm
bqjiys—zjncnwscbwgxpisacfxxcyfgpcaqcfapcxqqespcfycgmcnwsdcpgpcaqncxges
nqcsfncbfesycgmcnwsdcosiscnqczscfbbjyspcqmcynsfxgakrcS.sidzqpdcwfpcf
yqxjngqacmqicnwschdynsidcfapcHiycPqaasxxdcyfgpcgncofyc xfgacnwfncHfigf
wfpcxsmncgnczswgapcwsicgacnwscnifhrcHfigf,cishshzsigakcwqocbqamjyspcnws
ksanxshfacognwcnwsckisdgywchqjynfbwscwfpchfpscwsi,cbqxqjispcognwcywfhs
fapc.stfngqacfapcpgyf  qganhsanrcFncnwscnwqjkwncqmcnwscmfgxjiscqmcwsi
xgnnxscyji igyscfapcqmcnwscnoqcfapcmqji sabscywscwfpcnwiqoacfofdcmqi
aqnwgakcywscasfixdcbigspcqjnigkwnr

ZjncUqscyfgpcgncpgpa’nchfnnsicfapchfpscwsicygncpqoaczdcnwscmgisrcWscofy
.sidcagbscognwcwsircWscnqxpcwsicfxxcnwfncosancqacgacwgycqmmgbs,
is sfngakcmqicwsicfcyhfincfayosicowgbwcwscwfpchfpscnqcnwschfafksir
HfigfcpgpcaqncjapsiynfapcowdcUqscxfjkwspcyqchjbwcq.sicnwscfayosicwscwfp
hfpsczjncywscyfgpcnwfncnwschfafksichjyncwf.sczssacfc.sidcq.sizsfigak
 siyqacnqcpsfxcognwrcUqscyfgpcwscofya’ncyqczfpcowsacdqjceasocwqocnq
nfescwgh,cnwfncwscofycfcpsbsancyqincyqcxqakcfycdqjcpgpa’ncijzcwghcnws
oiqakcofdrcHiycPqaasxxdc xfdspcnwsc gfaqcmqicnwscbwgxpisacfapcnwsd
pfabspcfapcyfakrcNwsacnwscnoqcastn-pqqickgixycwfapspciqjapcnwscajnyr
AqzqpdcbqjxpcmgapcnwscajnbifbesiycfapcUqscofycasfixdcksnngakcbiqyycq.si
gncfapcfyespcwqocpgpcnwsdcst sbncHfigfcnqcbifbecajnycognwqjncf
ajnbifbesircZjncHfigfcyfgpcywscpgpa’ncxgescajnycfapcnwfncnwsdcosisa’n
nqczqnwsicfzqjncwsircNwsacUqscfyespcoqjxpcywscnfescfczqnnxscqmcynqjn
fapcHiycPqaasxxdcyfgpcnwsiscofyc qincogascnqqcgacnwscwqjyscgmcywscoqjxp
 ismsicnwfnrcHfigfcyfgpcywscoqjxpcifnwsicnwsdcpgpa’ncfyecwsicnqcnfes
fadnwgak:czjncUqscgaygynspr

YqcHfigfcxsncwghcwf.scwgycofdcfapcnwsdcyfnczdcnwscmgiscnfxegakcq.sicqxp
nghsycfapcHfigfcnwqjkwncywscoqjxpc jncgacfckqqpcoqipcmqicFx wdrcZjncUqs
bigspcnwfncKqpchgkwncynigescwghcynqascpsfpcgmcs.sicwscy qescfcoqipcnq
wgycziqnwsicfkfgacfapcHfigfcyfgpcywscofycyqiidcywscwfpchsangqaspcnws
hfnnsircHiycPqaasxxdcnqxpcwsicwjyzfapcgncofycfckisfncywfhscmqicwghcnq
y sfecnwfncofdcqmcwgycqoacmxsywcfapczxqqpczjncUqscyfgpcnwfncFx wdcofy
aqcziqnwsicqmcwgycfapcnwsiscofycasfixdczsgakcfciqocqacnwscwsfpcqmcgnr
ZjncUqscyfgpcwscoqjxpcaqncxqyscwgycnsh sicqacfbbqjancqmcnwscagkwncgn
ofycfapcfyespcwgycogmscnqcq sacyqhschqiscynqjnrcNwscnoqcastn-pqqickgixy
wfpcfiifakspcyqhscWfxxqocS.sckfhsycfapcyqqacs.sidnwgakcofychsiidcfkfgar
HfigfcofycpsxgkwnspcnqcysscnwscbwgxpisacyqchsiidcfapcUqscfapcwgycogms
gacyjbwckqqpcy gignyrcNwscastn-pqqickgixyc jncyqhscyfjbsiycqacnwscnfzxs
fapcnwsacxspcnwscbwgxpisacj cnqcnwscnfzxs,czxgapmqxprcQasckqncnws
 ifdsi-zqqecfapcnwscqnwsicnwissckqncnwscofnsi;cfapcowsacqascqmcnws
astn-pqqickgixyckqncnwscigakcHiycPqaasxxdcywqqecwsicmgaksicfncnws
zxjywgakckgixcfychjbwcfycnqcyfd:c_Q,cGceaqocfxxcfzqjncgn!_cNwsd
gaygynspcnwsacqaczxgapmqxpgakcHfigfcfapcxsfpgakcwsicj cnqcnwscnfzxscnq
ysscowfncywscoqjxpcksn;cfap,cowgxscnwsdcosisc jnngakcqacnwsczfapfks,
Hfigfcxfjkwspcfapcxfjkwspcfkfgacngxxcnwscng cqmcwsicaqyscasfixdchsncnws
ng cqmcwsicbwgar

Nwsdcxspcwsicj cnqcnwscnfzxscfhgpcxfjkwgakcfapcuqegakcfapcywsc jncwsi
wfapcqjncgacnwscfgicfycywscofycnqxpcnqcpqrcYwschq.spcwsicwfapcfzqjn
wsiscfapcnwsiscgacnwscfgicfapcpsybsapspcqacqascqmcnwscyfjbsiyrcYwscmsxn
fcyqmncosncyjzynfabscognwcwsicmgaksiycfapcofycyji igyspcnwfncaqzqpd
y qescqicnqqecqmmcwsiczfapfksrcNwsiscofycfc fjyscmqicfcmsocysbqapy;cfap
nwsacfckisfncpsfxcqmcybjmmxgakcfapcowgy sigakrcYqhszqpdcyfgpcyqhsnwgak
fzqjncnwsckfipsa,cfapcfncxfyncHiycPqaasxxdcyfgpcyqhsnwgakc.sidcbiqyycnq
qascqmcnwscastn-pqqickgixycfapcnqxpcwsicnqcnwiqocgncqjncfncqabs:cnwfn
ofycaqc xfdrcHfigfcjapsiynqqpcnwfncgncofycoiqakcnwfncnghscfapcyqcyws
wfpcnqcpqcgncq.sicfkfga:cfapcnwgycnghscywsckqncnwsc ifdsi-zqqer

FmnsicnwfncHiycPqaasxxdc xfdspcHgyycHbBxqjp’ycIssxcmqicnwscbwgxpisacfap
UqschfpscHfigfcnfescfckxfyycqmcogasrcYqqacnwsdcosiscfxxcljgnschsiid
fkfgacfapcHiycPqaasxxdcyfgpcHfigfcoqjxpcsansicfcbqa.sanczsmqiscnwscdsfi
ofycqjnczsbfjyscywscwfpckqncnwsc ifdsi-zqqercHfigfcwfpcas.sicyssacUqs
yqcagbscnqcwsicfycwscofycnwfncagkwn,cyqcmjxxcqmc xsfyfancnfxecfap
ishgagybsabsyrcYwscyfgpcnwsdcosiscfxxc.sidckqqpcnqcwsir

Fncxfyncnwscbwgxpisackisocngispcfapcyxss dcfapcUqscfyespcHfigfcoqjxp
ywscaqncygakcyqhscxgnnxscyqakczsmqiscywscosan,cqascqmcnwscqxpcyqakyr
HiycPqaasxxdcyfgpc_“Pq,c xsfys,cHfigf!”_cfapcyqcHfigfcwfpcnqcksncj cfap
ynfapczsygpscnwsc gfaqrcHiycPqaasxxdczfpscnwscbwgxpisaczscljgsncfap
xgynsacnqcHfigf’ycyqakrcNwsacywsc xfdspcnwsc isxjpscfapcyfgpc_“Aqo,
Hfigf!”_cfapcHfigf,czxjywgakc.sidchjbwczskfacnqcygakcgacfcngad
ljf.sigakc.qgbsrcYwscyfakc_GcPisfhncnwfncGcPosxn_,cfapcowsacywscbfhscnq
nwscysbqapc.siyscywscyfakcfkfga:

ccccc_GcpisfhncnwfncGcposxncgachfizxscwfxxy
cccccccccOgnwc.fyyfxycfapcysimycfnchdcygps
cccccFapcqmcfxxcowqcfyyshzxspcognwgacnwqyscofxxy
cccccccccNwfncGcofycnwscwq scfapcnwsc igpsr
cccccGcwfpcigbwsycnqqckisfncnqcbqjan,cbqjxpczqfyn
cccccccccQmcfcwgkwcfabsynifxcafhs,
cccccZjncGcfxyqcpisfhn,cowgbwc xsfyspchschqyn,
cccccccccNwfncdqjcxq.spchscyngxxcnwscyfhsr_

Zjncaqcqascnigspcnqcywqocwsicwsichgynfes;cfapcowsacywscwfpcsapspcwsi
yqakcUqscofyc.sidchjbwchq.sprcWscyfgpcnwfncnwsiscofycaqcnghscxgescnws
xqakcfkqcfapcaqchjygbcmqicwghcxgesc qqicqxpcZfxms,cowfns.sicqnwsi
 sq xschgkwncyfd;cfapcwgycsdsycmgxxspcj cyqchjbwcognwcnsfiycnwfncws
bqjxpcaqncmgapcowfncwscofycxqqegakcmqicfapcgacnwscsapcwscwfpcnqcfyecwgy
ogmscnqcnsxxcwghcowsiscnwscbqieybisocofyr



Fc FGAMJXcBFYS

HicUfhsycPjmmdcxg.spcgacBwf sxgvqpczsbfjyscwscogywspcnqcxg.scfycmficfy
 qyygzxscmiqhcnwscbgndcqmcowgbwcwscofycfcbgngvsacfapczsbfjyscwscmqjap
fxxcnwscqnwsicyjzjizycqmcPjzxgachsfa,chqpsiacfapc isnsangqjyrcWscxg.sp
gacfacqxpcyqhziscwqjyscfapcmiqhcwgycogapqoycwscbqjxpcxqqecganqcnws
pgyjyspcpgyngxxsidcqicj ofipycfxqakcnwscywfxxqocig.sicqacowgbwcPjzxga
gyczjgxnrcNwscxqmndcofxxycqmcwgycjabfi snspciqqhcosiscmisscmiqh
 gbnjisyrcWscwfpcwghysxmczqjkwncs.sidcfingbxscqmcmjiagnjiscgacnwsciqqh:
fczxfbecgiqaczspynsfp,cfacgiqacofywynfap,cmqjicbfascbwfgiy,cf
bxqnwsy-ifbe,cfcbqfx-ybjnnxs,cfcmsapsicfapcgiqaycfapcfcyljfiscnfzxscqa
owgbwcxfdcfcpqjzxscpsyercFczqqebfyscwfpczssachfpscgacfacfxbq.sczdchsfay
qmcywsx.sycqmcowgnscoqqprcNwsczspcofycbxqnwspcognwcowgnsczspbxqnwsycfap
fczxfbecfapcybfixsncijkcbq.sispcnwscmqqnrcFcxgnnxscwfap-hgiiqicwjak
fzq.scnwscofywynfapcfapcpjigakcnwscpfdcfcowgns-ywfpspcxfh cynqqpcfycnws
yqxscqiafhsancqmcnwschfansx gsbsrcNwsczqqeycqacnwscowgnscoqqpsacywsx.sy
osiscfiifakspcmiqhczsxqocj ofipycfbbqipgakcnqczjxercFcbqh xsns
Oqipyoqinwcynqqpcfncqascsapcqmcnwscxqosyncywsxmcfapcfcbq dcqmcnws
_HfdaqqnwcBfnsbwgyh_,cysoacganqcnwscbxqnwcbq.sicqmcfcaqnszqqe,cynqqpcfn
qascsapcqmcnwscnq cywsxmrcOigngakchfnsigfxycosiscfxofdycqacnwscpsyercGa
nwscpsyecxfdcfchfajybig ncnifayxfngqacqmcWfj nhfaa’yc_HgbwfsxcEifhsi_,
nwscynfkscpgisbngqaycqmcowgbwcosiscoignnsacgac ji xscgae,cfapcfcxgnnxs
ywsfmcqmc f siycwsxpcnqksnwsiczdcfczifyyc garcGacnwsyscywssnycf
ysansabscofycgaybigzspcmiqhcnghscnqcnghscfap,cgacfacgiqagbfxchqhsan,
nwscwsfpxgascqmcfacfp.singyshsancmqic_ZgxscZsfay_cwfpczssac fynspcqacnq
nwscmgiyncywssnrcQacxgmngakcnwscxgpcqmcnwscpsyecfcmfgancmifkifabs
sybf sp—nwscmifkifabscqmcasocbspfioqqpc sabgxycqicqmcfczqnnxscqmckjhcqi
qmcfacq.siig scf  xscowgbwchgkwncwf.sczssacxsmncnwsiscfapcmqikqnnsar

HicPjmmdcfzwqiispcfadnwgakcowgbwczsnqesaspc wdygbfxcqichsanfxcpgyqipsir
Fchspgæ.fxcpqbnqicoqjxpcwf.scbfxxspcwghcyfnjiagasrcWgycmfbs,cowgbw
bfiigspcnwscsangiscnfxscqmcwgycdsfiy,cofycqmcnwscziqoacngancqmcPjzxga
ynissnyrcQacwgycxqakcfapcifnwsicxfikscwsfpckisocpidczxfbecwfgicfapcf
nfoadchqjynfbwscpgpcaqncljgnscbq.sicfacjafhgfzxschqjnwrcWgycbwssezqasy
fxyqckf.scwgycmfbscfcwfiywcbwfifbnsi;czjncnwsiscofycaqcwfiywasyycgacnws
sdsycowgbw,cxqqegakcfncnwscoqixpcmiqhcjapsicnwsgicnfoadcsdsziqoy,ckf.s
nwscgh isyygqacqmcfchfacs.sicfxsincnqckissncfcispsshgakcgayngabncga
qnwsiyczjncqmnsacpgyf  qgansprcWscxg.spcfncfcxgnnxscpgynfabscmiqhcwgy
zqpd,ciskfipgakcwgycqoacfbnycognwcpqjznmjxcygps-kxfabsyrcWscwfpcfacqpp
fjnqzgqkif wgbfxcwfzgncowgbwcxspcwghcnqcbqh qyscgacwgychgapcmiqhcnghs
nqcnghscfcywqincysansabscfzqjncwghysxmcbqanfgagakcfcyjzusbncgacnws
nwgipc siyqacfapcfc ispgbfnscgacnwsc fyncnsaysrcWscas.sickf.scfxhycnq
zskkfiycfapcofxespcmgihxd,cbfiidgakcfcynqjncwfvsxr

Wscwfpczssacmqichfadcdsfiycbfywgsicqmcfc ig.fnsczfaecgacZfkkqncYnissnr
S.sidchqiagakcwscbfhscgacmiqhcBwf sxgvqpczdcnifhrcFnchgppfdcwscosancnq
PfacZjies’ycfapcnqqecwgycxjabw—fczqnnxscqmcxfksiczssicfapcfcyhfxx
nifdmjxcqmcfiiqoiqqnczgybjgnyrcFncmqjicq’bxqbecwscofycysncmissrcWs
pgaspcgacfacsfngak-wqjyscgacKsqiks’ycYnissncowsiscwscmsxncwghysxmcyfms
miqhcnwscyqbgsndcqmcPjzxga’yckgxpspcdqjnwcfapcowsiscnwsiscofycfcbsinfga
 xfgacwqasyndcgacnwsczgxxcqmcmfisrcWgycs.sagakycosiscy sancsgnwsi
zsmqiscwgycxfapxfpd’yc gfaqcqiciqfhgakcfzqjncnwscqjnyeginycqmcnwscbgndr
WgycxgegakcmqicHqvfin’ychjygbcziqjkwncwghcyqhsnghsycnqcfacq sifcqicf
bqabsin:cnwsyscosiscnwscqaxdcpgyyg fngqaycqmcwgycxgmsr

Wscwfpcasgnwsicbqh fagqaycaqicmigsapy,cbwjibwcaqicbissprcWscxg.spcwgy
y gignjfxcxgmscognwqjncfadcbqhhjagqacognwcqnwsiy,c.gygngakcwgy
isxfng.sycfncBwigynhfycfapcsybqingakcnwshcnqcnwscbshsnsidcowsacnwsd
pgsprcWsc simqihspcnwsyscnoqcyqbgfxcpjngsycmqicqxpcpgkagnd’ycyfesczjn
bqabspspcaqnwgakcmjinwsicnqcnwscbqa.sangqaycowgbwciskjxfnscnwscbg.gb
xgmsrcWscfxxqospcwghysxmcnqcnwgaecnwfncgacbsinfgacbgibjhynfabsycws
oqjxpciqzcwgyczfaeczjn,cfycnwsyscbgibjhynfabsycas.sicfiqys,cwgycxgms
iqxxspcqjncs.saxd—facfp.sanjisxsyycnfxsr

Qascs.sagakcwscmqjapcwghysxmcygnngakczsygpscnoqcxfpgsycgacnwscIqnjapfr
Nwscwqjys,cnwgaxdc sq xspcfapcygxsan,ckf.scpgynisyygakc iq wsbdcqm
mfgxjisrcNwscxfpdcowqcyfncastncwghcxqqespciqjapcfncnwscpsysinspcwqjys
qabscqicnogbscfapcnwsacyfgp:

“Owfncfc gndcnwsiscgycyjbwcfc qqicwqjyscnqagkwn!cGn’ycyqcwfipcqac sq xs
nqcwf.scnqcygakcnqcsh ndczsabwsyr”

Wscnqqecnwscishfiecfycfacga.gnfngqacnqcnfxercWscofycyji igyspcnwfncyws
ysshspcyqcxgnnxscfoeofiprcOwgxscnwsdcnfxespcwscnigspcnqcmgtcwsi
 sihfasanxdcgacwgychshqidrcOwsacwscxsfiaspcnwfncnwscdqjakckgixczsygps
wsicofycwsicpfjkwnsicwscujpkspcwsicnqczscfcdsficqicyqcdqjaksicnwfa
wghysxmrcWsicmfbs,cowgbwchjyncwf.sczssacwfapyqhs,cwfpcishfgasp
gansxxgksanrcGncofycfacq.fxcmfbscognwcyniqakxdchfiespcmsfnjisyrcNws
sdsycosisc.sidcpfieczxjscfapcynsfpdrcNwsgickfvsczskfacognwcfcpsmgfan
aqnsczjncofycbqamjyspczdcowfncysshspcfcpsxgzsifnscyoqqacqmcnwsc j gx
ganqcnwscgigy,cis.sfxgakcmqicfacgaynfancfcnsh sifhsancqmckisfn
ysaygzgxgndrcNwsc j gxcisfyysinspcgnysxmcljgbexd,cnwgycwfxm-pgybxqysp
afnjiscmsxxcfkfgacjapsicnwscisgkacqmc ijpsabs,cfapcwsicfynifewfa
ufbesn,chqjxpgakcfczqyqhcqmcfcbsinfgacmjxxasyy,cynijbecnwscaqnscqm
psmgfabschqiscpsmgagnsxdr

WschsncwsicfkfgacfcmsocosseycfmnsiofipycfncfcbqabsincgacSfixymqin
Nsiifbscfapcysgvspcnwschqhsanycowsacwsicpfjkwnsi’ycfnnsangqacofy
pg.sinspcnqczsbqhscganghfnsrcYwscfxxjpspcqabscqicnogbscnqcwsicwjyzfap
zjncwsicnqascofycaqncyjbwcfycnqchfescnwscfxxjygqacfcofiagakrcWsicafhs
ofycHiycYgagbqrcWsicwjyzfap’yckisfn-kisfn-kifapmfnwsicwfpcbqhscmiqh
XskwqiarcWsicwjyzfapcofycbf nfgacqmcfchsibfangxsczqfnc xdgakczsnossa
PjzxgacfapcWqxxfap;cfapcnwsdcwfpcqascbwgxpr

Hssngakcwsicfcnwgipcnghsczdcfbbgpsancwscmqjapcbqjifkscnqchfescfa
f  qganhsanrcYwscbfhsrcNwgycofycnwscmgiyncqmchfadchssngaky;cnwsdchsn
fxofdycgacnwscs.sagakcfapcbwqyscnwschqyncljgsncljfinsiycmqicnwsgicofxey
nqksnwsircHicPjmmd,cwqos.si,cwfpcfcpgynfynscmqicjapsiwfapcofdycfap,
mgapgakcnwfncnwsdcosiscbqh sxxspcnqchssncynsfxnwgxd,cwscmqibspcwsicnq
fyecwghcnqcwsicwqjysrcBf nfgacYgagbqcsabqjifkspcwgyc.gygny,cnwgaegak
nwfncwgycpfjkwnsi’ycwfapcofycgacljsyngqarcWscwfpcpgyhgyyspcwgycogmscyq
ygabsisxdcmiqhcwgyckfxxsidcqmc xsfyjisycnwfncwscpgpcaqncyjy sbncnwfn
fadqascsxyscoqjxpcnfescfacgansisyncgacwsircFycnwscwjyzfapcofycqmnsa
fofdcfapcnwscpfjkwnsicqjnckg.gakchjygbcxsyyqaycHicPjmmdcwfpchfad
q  qinjagngsycqmcsauqdgakcnwscxfpd’ycyqbgsndrcAsgnwsicwscaqicywscwfp
wfpcfadcyjbwcfp.sanjisczsmqiscfapcasgnwsicofycbqaybgqjycqmcfad
gabqakijgndrcXgnnxsczdcxgnnxscwscsanfakxspcwgycnwqjkwnycognwcwsiyrcWs
xsancwsiczqqey,c iq.gpspcwsicognwcgpsfy,cywfispcwgycgansxxsbnjfxcxgms
ognwcwsircYwscxgynsaspcnqcfxxr

Yqhsnghsycgacisnjiacmqicwgycnwsqigsycywsckf.scqjncyqhscmfbncqmcwsicqoa
xgmsrcOgnwcfxhqynchfnsiafxcyqxgbgnjpscywscjikspcwghcnqcxsncwgycafnjis
q sacnqcnwscmjxx:cywsczsbfhscwgycbqamsyyqircWscnqxpcwsicnwfncmqicyqhs
nghscwscwfpcfyygynspcfncnwschssngakycqmcfacGigywcYqbgfxgync findcowsis
wscwfpcmsxncwghysxmcfcjagljscmgkjiscfhgpyncfcybqiscqmcyqzsicoqiehsacga
fckfiisncxgnczdcfacgasmmgbgsancqgx-xfh rcOwsacnwsc findcwfpcpg.gpsp
ganqcnwisscysbngqay,csfbwcjapsicgnycqoacxsfpsicfapcgacgnycqoackfiisn,
wscwfpcpgybqangajspcwgycfnnsapfabsyrcNwscoqiehsa’ycpgybjyygqay,cws
yfgp,cosiscnqqcnghqiqjy;cnwscgansisyncnwsdcnqqecgacnwscljsyngqacqm
ofksycofycgaqipgafnsrcWscmsxncnwfncnwsdcosiscwfip-msfnjispcisfxgynycfap
nwfncnwsdcisysanspcfacstfbngnjpscowgbwcofycnwsc iqpjbscqmcfcxsgyjiscaqn
ognwgacnwsgicisfbwrcAqcyqbgfxcis.qxjngqa,cwscnqxpcwsi,coqjxpczscxgesxd
nqcynigescPjzxgacmqicyqhscbsanjigsyr

YwscfyespcwghcowdcpgpcwscaqncoignscqjncwgycnwqjkwnyrcMqicowfn,cwscfyesp
wsi,cognwcbfismjxcybqiarcNqcbqh snscognwc wifyshqaksiy,cgabf fzxscqm
nwgaegakcbqaysbjng.sxdcmqicygtndcysbqapy?cNqcyjzhgncwghysxmcnqcnws
bigngbgyhycqmcfacqznjyschgppxscbxfyycowgbwcsanijynspcgnychqifxgndcnq
 qxgbshsacfapcgnycmgascfinycnqcgh isyfigqy?

WscosancqmnsacnqcwsicxgnnxscbqnnfkscqjnygpscPjzxga;cqmnsacnwsdcy san
nwsgics.sagakycfxqasrcXgnnxsczdcxgnnxs,cfycnwsgicnwqjkwnycsanfakxsp,
nwsdcy qescqmcyjzusbnycxsyycishqnsrcWsicbqh fagqaywg cofycxgescfcofih
yqgxcfzqjncfacstqngbrcHfadcnghsycywscfxxqospcnwscpfiecnqcmfxxcj qa
nwsh,cismifgagakcmiqhcxgkwngakcnwscxfh rcNwscpfiecpgybissnciqqh,cnwsgi
gyqxfngqa,cnwschjygbcnwfncyngxxc.gzifnspcgacnwsgicsfiycjagnspcnwshr
Nwgycjagqacstfxnspcwgh,coqiscfofdcnwsciqjkwcspksycqmcwgycbwfifbnsi,
shqngqafxgyspcwgychsanfxcxgmsrcYqhsnghsycwscbfjkwncwghysxmcxgynsagakcnq
nwscyqjapcqmcwgycqoac.qgbsrcWscnwqjkwncnwfncgacwsicsdsycwscoqjxpcfybsap
nqcfacfaksxgbfxcynfnjis;cfap,cfycwscfnnfbwspcnwscmsi.sancafnjiscqmcwgy
bqh fagqachqiscfapchqiscbxqysxdcnqcwgh,cwscwsfipcnwscynifakscgh siyqafx
.qgbscowgbwcwscisbqkagyspcfycwgycqoa,cgaygyngakcqacnwscyqjx’ycgabjifzxs
xqasxgasyyrcOscbfaaqnckg.scqjiysx.sy,cgncyfgp:coscfiscqjicqoarcNwscsap
qmcnwsyscpgybqjiysycofycnwfncqascagkwncpjigakcowgbwcywscwfpcywqoacs.sid
ygkacqmcjajyjfxcstbgnshsan,cHiycYgagbqcbfjkwncj cwgycwfapc fyygqafnsxd
fapc isyyspcgncnqcwsicbwsser

HicPjmmdcofyc.sidchjbwcyji igysprcWsicgansi isnfngqacqmcwgycoqipy
pgygxxjygqaspcwghrcWscpgpcaqnc.gygncwsicmqicfcosse,cnwsacwscoiqnscnq
wsicfyegakcwsicnqchssncwghrcFycwscpgpcaqncogywcnwsgicxfyncgansi.gsocnq
zscniqjzxspczdcnwscgamxjsabscqmcnwsgicijgaspcbqamsyygqafxcnwsdchsncgacf
xgnnxscbfesywq casficnwsc fiekfnsrcGncofycbqxpcfjnjhacosfnwsiczjncga
y gnscqmcnwscbqxpcnwsdcofapsispcj cfapcpqoacnwsciqfpycqmcnwsc fiecmqi
asfixdcnwisscwqjiyrcNwsdcfkisspcnqczisfecqmmcnwsgicgansibqjiys:cs.sid
zqap,cwscyfgp,cgycfczqapcnqcyqiiqorcOwsacnwsdcbfhscqjncqmcnwsc fiecnwsd
ofxespcgacygxsabscnqofipycnwscnifh;czjncwsiscywsczskfacnqcnishzxscyq
.gqxsanxdcnwfn,cmsfigakcfaqnwsicbqxxf yscqacwsic fin,cwsczfpscwsi
kqqp-zdscljgbexdcfapcxsmncwsircFcmsocpfdycxfnsicwscisbsg.spcfc fibsx
bqanfgagakcwgyczqqeycfapchjygbr

Mqjicdsfiyc fyysprcHicPjmmdcisnjiaspcnqcwgycs.sacofdcqmcxgmsrcWgyciqqh
yngxxczqiscognasyycqmcnwscqipsixgasyycqmcwgychgaprcYqhscasoc gsbsycqm
hjygbcsabjhzsispcnwschjygb-ynfapcgacnwscxqosiciqqhcfapcqacwgycywsx.sy
ynqqpcnoqc.qxjhsyczdcAgsnvybws:c_NwjycY fescVfifnwjynif_cfapc_NwscKfd
Ybgsabs_rcWscoiqnscysxpqhcgacnwscywsfmcqmc f siycowgbwcxfdcgacwgycpsyer
Qascqmcwgycysansabsy,coignnsacnoqchqanwycfmnsicwgycxfyncgansi.gsocognw
HiycYgagbq,cisfp:cXq.sczsnossachfacfapchfacgycgh qyygzxsczsbfjyscnwsis
hjyncaqnczscystjfxcgansibqjiyscfapcmigsapywg czsnossachfacfapcoqhfacgy
gh qyygzxsczsbfjyscnwsischjynczscystjfxcgansibqjiysrcWsces ncfofdcmiqh
bqabsinycxsyncwscywqjxpchssncwsircWgycmfnwsicpgsp;cnwscujagqic finasi
qmcnwsczfaecisngisprcFapcyngxxcs.sidchqiagakcwscosancganqcnwscbgndczd
nifhcfapcs.sidcs.sagakcofxespcwqhscmiqhcnwscbgndcfmnsicwf.gakcpgasp
hqpsifnsxdcgacKsqiks’ycYnissncfapcisfpcnwscs.sagakc f sicmqicpsyysinr

Qascs.sagakcfycwscofycfzqjncnqc jncfchqiysxcqmcbqiaspczssmcfapcbfzzfks
ganqcwgychqjnwcwgycwfapcynq  sprcWgycsdsycmgtspcnwshysx.sycqacf
 fifkif wcgacnwscs.sagakc f sicowgbwcwscwfpc iq  spcfkfgayncnws
ofnsi-bfifmsrcWscis xfbspcnwschqiysxcqmcmqqpcqacwgyc xfnscfapcisfpcnws
 fifkif wcfnnsang.sxdrcNwsacwscpifaecfckxfyycqmcofnsi,c jywspcwgyc xfns
nqcqascygps,cpqjzxspcnwsc f sicpqoaczsmqiscwghczsnossacwgycsxzqoycfap
isfpcnwsc fifkif wcq.sicfapcq.sicfkfgarcNwscbfzzfksczskfacnqcps qygncf
bqxpcowgnsckisfyscqacwgyc xfnsrcNwsckgixcbfhscq.sicnqcwghcnqcfyecofy
wgycpgaasicaqnc iq sixdcbqqesprcWscyfgpcgncofyc.sidckqqpcfapcfnscfcmso
hqjnwmjxycqmcgncognwcpgmmgbjxndrcNwsacwsc fgpcwgyczgxxcfapcosancqjnr

WscofxespcfxqakcljgbexdcnwiqjkwcnwscAq.shzsicnogxgkwn,cwgycynqjncwfvsx
yngbecynigegakcnwsckiqjapciskjxfixd,cnwscmigakscqmcnwsczjmmc_Hfgx_
 ss gakcqjncqmcfcygps- qbesncqmcwgycngkwncissmsicq.sibqfnrcQacnws
xqasxdciqfpcowgbwcxsfpycmiqhcnwsc fiekfnscnqcBwf sxgvqpcwscyxfbesasp
wgyc fbsrcWgycyngbecynijbecnwsckiqjapcxsyycsh wfngbfxxdcfapcwgyczisfnw,
gyyjgakcgiiskjxfixd,cfxhqyncognwcfcygkwgakcyqjap,cbqapsayspcgacnws
oganidcfgircOwsacwscisfbwspcwgycwqjyscwscosancj cfncqabscnqcwgyczspiqqh
fap,cnfegakcnwsc f sicmiqhcwgyc qbesn,cisfpcnwsc fifkif wcfkfgaczdcnws
mfgxgakcxgkwncqmcnwscogapqorcWscisfpcgncaqncfxqjp,czjnchq.gakcwgycxg y
fycfc igsyncpqsycowsacwscisfpycnwsc ifdsiyc_Ysbisnq_rcNwgycofycnws
 fifkif w:

cccccPSFNWcQMcFcXFPDcFNcYDPASDc FIFPS

cccccFc FGAMJXcBFYS

NqpfdcfncnwscBgndcqmcPjzxgacWqy gnfxcnwscPs jndcBqiqasic(gacnwscfzysabs
qmcHicXs.sisnn)cwsxpcfacgaljsyncqacnwsczqpdcqmcHiycShgxdcYgagbq,cfksp
mqind-nwisscdsfiy,cowqcofycegxxspcfncYdpasdc fifpscYnfngqacdsynsipfd
s.sagakrcNwscs.gpsabscywqospcnwfncnwscpsbsfyspcxfpd,cowgxscfnnsh ngak
nqcbiqyycnwscxgas,cofyceaqbespcpqoaczdcnwscsakgascqmcnwscnsacq’bxqbe
yxqocnifgacmiqhcEgakynqoa,cnwsiszdcyjynfgagakcgaujigsycqmcnwscwsfpcfap
igkwncygpscowgbwcxspcnqcwsicpsfnwr

UfhsycXsaaqa,cpig.sicqmcnwscsakgas,cynfnspcnwfncwscwfpczssacgacnws
sh xqdhsancqmcnwscifgxofdcbqh fadcmqicmgmnssacdsfiyrcQacwsfigakcnws
kjfip’ycowgynxscwscysncnwscnifgacgachqngqacfapcfcysbqapcqicnoq
fmnsiofipycziqjkwncgncnqcisyncgacisy qayscnqcxqjpcbigsyrcNwscnifgacofy
kqgakcyxqoxdr

 rcPjaas,cifgxofdc qinsi,cynfnspcnwfncfycnwscnifgacofycfzqjncnqcynfin
wscqzysi.spcfcoqhfacfnnsh ngakcnqcbiqyycnwscxgasyrcWscifacnqofipycwsi
fapcywqjnsp,czjn,czsmqiscwscbqjxpcisfbwcwsi,cywscofycbfjkwnczdcnws
zjmmsicqmcnwscsakgascfapcmsxxcnqcnwsckiqjapr

_Fcujiqi_rc“Dqjcyfocnwscxfpdcmfxx?”

_Ognasyy_rc“Dsyr”

 qxgbscYsiksfancBiqxdcps qyspcnwfncowsacwscfiig.spcwscmqjapcnws
psbsfyspcxdgakcqacnwsc xfnmqihcf  fisanxdcpsfprcWscwfpcnwsczqpdcnfesa
nqcnwscofgngak-iqqhc sapgakcnwscfiig.fxcqmcnwscfhzjxfabsr

Bqaynfzxsc57Scbqiiqzqifnspr

PicWfx ga,cfyygynfancwqjyscyjiksqacqmcnwscBgndcqmcPjzxgacWqy gnfx,
ynfnspcnwfncnwscpsbsfyspcwfpcnoqcxqosicigzycmifbnjispcfapcwfpcyjynfgasp
ys.siscbqanjygqaycqmcnwscigkwncywqjxpsircNwscigkwncygpscqmcnwscwsfpcwfp
zssacgaujispcgacnwscmfxxrcNwscgaujigsycosiscaqncyjmmgbgsancnqcwf.s
bfjyspcpsfnwcgacfcaqihfxc siyqarcPsfnw,cgacwgycq gagqa,cwfpczssa
 iqzfzxdcpjscnqcywqbecfapcyjppsacmfgxjiscqmcnwscwsfin’ycfbngqar

HicWrcZrc fnnsiyqacMgaxfd,cqaczswfxmcqmcnwscifgxofdcbqh fad,cst isyysp
wgycpss ciskisncfncnwscfbbgpsanrcNwscbqh fadcwfpcfxofdycnfesacs.sid
 isbfjngqacnqc is.sanc sq xscbiqyygakcnwscxgasycstbs nczdcnwsczigpksy,
zqnwczdc xfbgakcaqngbsycgacs.sidcynfngqacfapczdcnwscjyscqmc fnsan
y igakckfnsycfncxs.sxcbiqyygakyrcNwscpsbsfyspcwfpczssacgacnwscwfzgncqm
biqyygakcnwscxgasycxfnscfncagkwncmiqhc xfnmqihcnqc xfnmqihcfap,cgac.gso
qmcbsinfgacqnwsicbgibjhynfabsycqmcnwscbfys,cwscpgpcaqncnwgaecnws
ifgxofdcqmmgbgfxycosiscnqczxfhsr

Bf nfgacYgagbq,cqmcXsq.gxxs,cYdpasdc fifps,cwjyzfapcqmcnwscpsbsfysp,
fxyqckf.scs.gpsabsrcWscynfnspcnwfncnwscpsbsfyspcofycwgycogmsrcWscofy
aqncgacPjzxgacfncnwscnghscqmcnwscfbbgpsancfycwscwfpcfiig.spcqaxdcnwfn
hqiagakcmiqhcIqnnsipfhrcNwsdcwfpczssachfiigspcmqicnosand-noqcdsfiycfap
wfpcxg.spcwf  gxdcjangxcfzqjncnoqcdsfiycfkqcowsacwgycogmsczskfacnqczs
ifnwsicgansh sifnscgacwsicwfzgnyr

HgyycHfidcYgagbqcyfgpcnwfncqmcxfnscwsichqnwsicwfpczssacgacnwscwfzgncqm
kqgakcqjncfncagkwncnqczjdcy gignyrcYws,cognasyy,cwfpcqmnsacnigspcnq
isfyqacognwcwsichqnwsicfapcwfpcgapjbspcwsicnqcuqgacfcxsfkjsrcYwscofy
aqncfncwqhscjangxcfacwqjicfmnsicnwscfbbgpsanrcNwscujidcisnjiaspcf
.sipgbncgacfbbqipfabscognwcnwschspgbfxcs.gpsabscfapcstqasifnspcXsaaqa
miqhcfxxczxfhsr

NwscPs jndcBqiqasicyfgpcgncofycfchqync fgamjxcbfys,cfapcst isyyspckisfn
ydh fnwdcognwcBf nfgacYgagbqcfapcwgycpfjkwnsircWscjikspcqacnwscifgxofd
bqh fadcnqcnfescyniqakchsfyjisycnqc is.sancnwsc qyygzgxgndcqmcyghgxfi
fbbgpsanycgacnwscmjnjisrcAqczxfhscfnnfbwspcnqcfadqasr




HicPjmmdcifgyspcwgycsdsycmiqhcnwsc f sicfapckfvspcqjncqmcwgycogapqocqa
nwscbwssixsyycs.sagakcxfapybf srcNwscig.sicxfdcljgsnczsygpscnwscsh nd
pgyngxxsidcfapcmiqhcnghscnqcnghscfcxgkwncf  sfispcgacyqhscwqjyscqacnws
XjbfaciqfprcOwfncfacsap!cNwscowqxscafiifng.scqmcwsicpsfnwcis.qxnspcwgh
fapcgncis.qxnspcwghcnqcnwgaecnwfncwscwfpcs.sicy qesacnqcwsicqmcowfncws
wsxpcyfbisprcNwscnwisfpzfisc wifysy,cnwscgafascst isyygqaycqmcydh fnwd,
nwscbfjngqjycoqipycqmcfcis qinsicoqacq.sicnqcbqabsfxcnwscpsnfgxycqmcf
bqhhqa xfbsc.jxkficpsfnwcfnnfbespcwgycynqhfbwrcAqnchsisxdcwfpcyws
pskifpspcwsiysxm;cywscwfpcpskifpspcwghrcWscyfocnwscyljfxgpcnifbncqmcwsi
.gbs,chgysifzxscfapchfxqpqiqjyrcWgycyqjx’ycbqh fagqa!cWscnwqjkwncqmcnws
wqzzxgakcoisnbwsycowqhcwscwfpcyssacbfiidgakcbfaycfapczqnnxsycnqczs
mgxxspczdcnwsczfihfarcUjyncKqp,cowfncfacsap!cS.gpsanxdcywscwfpczssa
jamgncnqcxg.s,cognwqjncfadcynisaknwcqmc ji qys,cfacsfydc isdcnqcwfzgny,
qascqmcnwscoisbeycqacowgbwcbg.gxgyfngqacwfyczssacisfisprcZjncnwfncyws
bqjxpcwf.scyjaecyqcxqo!cOfycgnc qyygzxscwscwfpcpsbsg.spcwghysxmcyq
jnnsixdcfzqjncwsi?cWscishshzsispcwsicqjnzjiyncqmcnwfncagkwncfap
gansi isnspcgncgacfcwfiywsicysayscnwfacwscwfpcs.sicpqasrcWscwfpcaq
pgmmgbjxndcaqocgacf  iq.gakcqmcnwscbqjiyscwscwfpcnfesar

Fycnwscxgkwncmfgxspcfapcwgychshqidczskfacnqcofapsicwscnwqjkwncwsicwfap
nqjbwspcwgyrcNwscywqbecowgbwcwfpcmgiyncfnnfbespcwgycynqhfbwcofycaqo
fnnfbegakcwgycasi.syrcWsc jncqacwgycq.sibqfncfapcwfncljgbexdcfapcosan
qjnrcNwscbqxpcfgichsncwghcqacnwscnwisywqxp;cgncbis ncganqcnwscyxss.sy
qmcwgycbqfnrcOwsacwscbfhscnqcnwsc jzxgb-wqjyscfncBwf sxgvqpcZigpkscws
osancgacfapcqipsispcfcwqnc jabwr

Nwsc iq igsnqicysi.spcwghcqzysljgqjyxdczjncpgpcaqnc.sanjiscnqcnfxer
Nwsiscosiscmg.scqicygtcoqiegakhsacgacnwscywq cpgybjyygakcnwsc.fxjscqmcf
ksanxshfa’ycsynfnscgacBqjandcEgxpfisrcNwsdcpifaecfncgansi.fxycmiqh
nwsgicwjksc gancnjhzxsiycfapcyhqesp,cy gnngakcqmnsacqacnwscmxqqicfap
yqhsnghsycpifkkgakcnwscyfopjyncq.sicnwsgicy gnycognwcnwsgicwsf.dczqqnyr
HicPjmmdcyfncqacwgycynqqxcfapckfvspcfncnwsh,cognwqjncyssgakcqicwsfigak
nwshrcFmnsicfcowgxscnwsdcosancqjncfapcwscbfxxspcmqicfaqnwsic jabwrcWs
yfncfcxqakcnghscq.sicgnrcNwscywq cofyc.sidcljgsnrcNwsc iq igsnqi
y ifoxspcqacnwscbqjansicisfpgakcnwsc_Wsifxp_cfapcdfoagakrcAqocfapcfkfga
fcnifhcofycwsfipcyogywgakcfxqakcnwscxqasxdciqfpcqjnygpsr

Fycwscyfncnwsis,cxg.gakcq.sicwgycxgmscognwcwsicfapcs.qegakcfxnsiafnsxd
nwscnoqcghfksycgacowgbwcwscaqocbqabsg.spcwsi,cwscisfxgyspcnwfncywscofy
psfp,cnwfncywscwfpcbsfyspcnqcstgyn,cnwfncywscwfpczsbqhscfchshqidrcWs
zskfacnqcmssxcgxxcfncsfysrcWscfyespcwghysxmcowfncsxyscbqjxpcwscwf.s
pqasrcWscbqjxpcaqncwf.scbfiigspcqacfcbqhspdcqmcpsbs ngqacognwcwsi;cws
bqjxpcaqncwf.scxg.spcognwcwsicq saxdrcWscwfpcpqascowfncysshspcnqcwgh
zsynrcWqocofycwscnqczxfhs?cAqocnwfncywscofyckqascwscjapsiynqqpcwqo
xqasxdcwsicxgmschjyncwf.sczssa,cygnngakcagkwncfmnsicagkwncfxqascgacnwfn
iqqhrcWgycxgmscoqjxpczscxqasxdcnqqcjangxcws,cnqq,cpgsp,cbsfyspcnq
stgyn,czsbfhscfchshqid—gmcfadqascishshzsispcwghr

Gncofycfmnsicagascq’bxqbecowsacwscxsmncnwscywq rcNwscagkwncofycbqxpcfap
kxqqhdrcWscsansispcnwsc fieczdcnwscmgiynckfnscfapcofxespcfxqakcjapsi
nwsckfjancnissyrcWscofxespcnwiqjkwcnwsczxsfecfxxsdycowsiscnwsdcwfp
ofxespcmqjicdsfiyczsmqisrcYwscysshspcnqczscasficwghcgacnwscpfieasyyrcFn
hqhsanycwscysshspcnqcmssxcwsic.qgbscnqjbwcwgycsfi,cwsicwfapcnqjbwcwgyr
WscynqqpcyngxxcnqcxgynsarcOwdcwfpcwscognwwsxpcxgmscmiqhcwsi?cOwdcwfpcws
ysansabspcwsicnqcpsfnw?cWscmsxncwgychqifxcafnjiscmfxxgakcnqc gsbsyr

OwsacwsckfgaspcnwscbisyncqmcnwscHfkfvgascWgxxcwscwfxnspcfapcxqqesp
fxqakcnwscig.sicnqofipycPjzxga,cnwscxgkwnycqmcowgbwczjiaspcispxdcfap
wqy gnfzxdcgacnwscbqxpcagkwnrcWscxqqespcpqoacnwscyxq scfap,cfncnws
zfys,cgacnwscywfpqocqmcnwscofxxcqmcnwsc fie,cwscyfocyqhscwjhfacmgkjisy
xdgakrcNwqysc.safxcfapcmjing.scxq.sycmgxxspcwghcognwcpsy fgircWsckafosp
nwscisbngnjpscqmcwgycxgms;cwscmsxncnwfncwscwfpczssacqjnbfyncmiqhcxgms’y
msfynrcQascwjhfaczsgakcwfpcysshspcnqcxq.scwghcfapcwscwfpcpsagspcwsi
xgmscfapcwf  gasyy:cwscwfpcysansabspcwsicnqcgkaqhgad,cfcpsfnwcqmcywfhsr
Wsceasocnwfncnwsc iqynifnscbisfnjisycpqoaczdcnwscofxxcosiscofnbwgakcwgh
fapcogywspcwghckqasrcAqcqascofanspcwgh;cwscofycqjnbfyncmiqhcxgms’y
msfynrcWscnjiaspcwgycsdsycnqcnwsckisdckxsfhgakcig.si,cogapgakcfxqak
nqofipycPjzxgarcZsdqapcnwscig.sicwscyfocfckqqpycnifgacogapgakcqjncqm
EgakyzigpkscYnfngqa,cxgescfcoqihcognwcfcmgsidcwsfpcogapgakcnwiqjkwcnws
pfieasyy,cqzyngafnsxdcfapcxfzqigqjyxdrcGnc fyyspcyxqoxdcqjncqmcygkwn;
zjncyngxxcwscwsfipcgacwgycsfiycnwscxfzqigqjycpiqascqmcnwscsakgas
isgnsifngakcnwscydxxfzxsycqmcwsicafhsr

Wscnjiaspczfbecnwscofdcwscwfpcbqhs,cnwsciwdnwhcqmcnwscsakgasc qjapgak
gacwgycsfiyrcWsczskfacnqcpqjzncnwscisfxgndcqmcowfnchshqidcnqxpcwghrcWs
wfxnspcjapsicfcnisscfapcfxxqospcnwsciwdnwhcnqcpgscfofdrcWscbqjxpcaqn
mssxcwsicasficwghcgacnwscpfieasyycaqicwsic.qgbscnqjbwcwgycsfircWs
ofgnspcmqicyqhschgajnsycxgynsagakrcWscbqjxpcwsficaqnwgak:cnwscagkwncofy
 simsbnxdcygxsanrcWscxgynsaspcfkfga:c simsbnxdcygxsanrcWscmsxncnwfncws
ofycfxqasr



G.DcPFDcGAcNWScBQHHGNNSScIQQH

QxpcUfbecifespcnwscbgapsiycnqksnwsicognwcfc gsbscqmcbfipzqfipcfap
y isfpcnwshcujpgbgqjyxdcq.sicnwscowgnsagakcpqhscqmcbqfxyrcOwsacnwscpqhs
ofycnwgaxdcbq.sispcwgycmfbscxf yspcganqcpfieasyyczjn,cfycwscysncwghysxm
nqcmfacnwscmgiscfkfga,cwgycbiqjbwgakcywfpqocfybsapspcnwscq  qygnscofxx
fapcwgycmfbscyxqoxdcis-shsikspcganqcxgkwnrcGncofycfacqxpchfa’ycmfbs,
.sidczqadcfapcwfgidrcNwschqgynczxjscsdsyczxgaespcfncnwscmgiscfapcnws
hqgynchqjnwcmsxxcq sacfncnghsy,chjabwgakcqabscqicnogbschsbwfagbfxxd
owsacgncbxqysprcOwsacnwscbgapsiycwfpcbfjkwncwscxfgpcnwsc gsbscqm
bfipzqfipcfkfgayncnwscofxx,cygkwspcfapcyfgp:

“Nwfn’yczsnnsicaqo,cHicQ’Bqaaqir”

HicQ’Bqaaqi,cfckisd-wfgispcdqjakchfa,cowqyscmfbscofycpgymgkjispczdchfad
zxqnbwsycfapc gh xsy,cwfpcujyncziqjkwncnwscnqzfbbqcmqicfcbgkfisnnscganq
fcywf sxdcbdxgapsiczjncowsacy qesacnqcwscjapgpcwgycwfapgoqie
hspgnfng.sxdrcNwsacwsczskfacnqciqxxcnwscnqzfbbqcfkfgachspgnfng.sxdcfap
fmnsicfchqhsan’ycnwqjkwncpsbgpspcnqcxgbecnwsc f sir

“PgpcHicNgsiasdcyfdcowsacws’pczsczfbe?”cwscfyespcgacfcwjyedcmfxysnnqr

“Wscpgpa’ncyfdr”

HicQ’Bqaaqic jncwgycbgkfisnnscganqcwgychqjnwcfapczskfacnqcysfibwcwgy
 qbesnyrcWscnqqecqjncfc fbecqmcnwgac fynszqfipcbfipyr

“G’xxcksncdqjcfchfnbw,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“As.sichgap,cnwgy’xxcpq,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

Wscysxsbnspcqascqmcnwscbfipycfapcisfpcowfncofyc iganspcqacgn:

cccccHJAGBG FXcSXSBNGQAY

cccccIQDFXcSTBWFAKScOFIP

HicIgbwfipcUrcNgsiasd,c rXrKr,cisy sbnmjxxdcyqxgbgnycnwscmf.qjicqmcdqji
.qnscfapcgamxjsabscfncnwscbqhgakcsxsbngqacgacnwscIqdfxcStbwfakscOfipr


HicQ’BqaaqicwfpczssacsakfkspczdcNgsiasd’ycfksancnqcbfa.fyycqasc fincqm
nwscofipczjn,cfycnwscosfnwsicofycgabxshsancfapcwgyczqqnycxsncgacnws
osn,cwscy sancfckisfnc fincqmcnwscpfdcygnngakczdcnwscmgiscgacnws
BqhhgnnsscIqqhcgacOgbexqocYnissncognwcUfbe,cnwscqxpcbfisnfesircNwsdcwfp
zssacygnngakcnwjycygabscnwscywqincpfdcwfpckiqoacpfiercGncofycnwscygtnw
qmcQbnqzsi,cpgyhfxcfapcbqxpcqjncqmcpqqiyr

HicQ’Bqaaqicnqiscfcynig cqmmcnwscbfipcfap,cxgkwngakcgn,cxgncwgy
bgkfisnnsrcFycwscpgpcyqcnwscmxfhscxgncj cfcxsfmcqmcpfieckxqyydcg.dcga
nwscxf sxcqmcwgycbqfnrcNwscqxpchfacofnbwspcwghcfnnsang.sxdcfapcnwsa,
nfegakcj cnwsc gsbscqmcbfipzqfipcfkfga,czskfacnqcmfacnwscmgiscyxqoxd
owgxscwgycbqh fagqacyhqespr

“Fw,cdsy,”cwscyfgp,cbqangajgak,c“gn’ycwfipcnqceaqocowfncofdcnqczigakcj 
bwgxpisarcAqocowq’pcnwgaecws’pcnjiacqjncxgescnwfn!cGcysancwghcnqcnws
BwigyngfacZiqnwsiycfapcGcpqascowfncGcbqjxpcmqicwgh,cfapcnwsiscwsckqsy
zqqygakcfzqjnrcGcnigspcnqchfescwghcyqhsofdcpsbsanr”

Wscis xfbspcnwscbfipzqfipcosfigxdr

“QaxdcG’hcfacqxpchfacaqocG’pcbwfakscwgycnjascmqicwghrcG’pcnfescnws
yngbecnqcwgyczfbecfapczsfncwghcowgxscGcbqjxpcynfapcq.sicwgh—fycGcpqas
hfadcfcnghsczsmqisrcNwschqnwsi,cdqjceaqo,cywscbqbeycwghcj cognwcnwgy
fapcnwfnrrrr”

“Nwfn’ycowfncijgaycbwgxpisa,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Nqczscyjiscgncgy,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfarc“Fapcxgnnxscnwfaeycdqjcksncmqi
gn,cqaxdcgh jpsabsrcWscnfesycnw’j  sicwfapcqmchscowsas.sicwscyssycG’.s
fcyj cnfesarcOwfn’ycnwscoqixpcbqhgakcnqcowsacyqaycy sfeycnwfncofdcnq
nwsgicmfnwsi?”

“Owfncfkscgycws?”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Agasnssa,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Owdcpqa’ncdqjc jncwghcnqcyqhsnwgak?”

“Yjis,cfha’ncGcas.sicpqascfncnwscpijaesaczqoydcs.sicygabscwscxsmn
ybwqqx?c‘Gcoqa’ncess cdqj,’cGcyfdyrc‘Dqjchjyncksncfcuqzcmqicdqjiysxmr’
Zjn,cyjis,cgn’ycoqiyscowsas.sicwscksnycfcuqz;cwscpigaeycgncfxxr”

HicQ’Bqaaqicywqqecwgycwsfpcgacydh fnwd,cfapcnwscqxpchfacmsxxcygxsan,
kfvgakcganqcnwscmgisrcYqhsqascq saspcnwscpqqicqmcnwsciqqhcfapcbfxxsp
qjn:

“Wsxxq!cGycnwgycfcMisshfyqay’chssngak?”

“Owq’ycnwfn?”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Owfncfiscdqjcpqgakcgacnwscpfie?”cfyespcfc.qgbsr

“Gycnwfncdqj,cWdasy?”cfyespcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“DsyrcOwfncfiscdqjcpqgakcgacnwscpfie?”cyfgpcHicWdasyrcfp.fabgakcganq
nwscxgkwncqmcnwscmgisr

Wscofycfcnfxx,cyxsapsicdqjakchfacognwcfcxgkwncziqoachqjynfbwsrcGhhgasan
xgnnxscpiq ycqmcifgacwjakcfncnwsczighcqmcwgycwfncfapcnwscbqxxficqmcwgy
ufbesn-bqfncofycnjiaspcj r

“Osxx,cHfn,”cwscyfgpcnqcHicQ’Bqaaqi,c“wqockqsycgn?”

HicQ’BqaaqicywqqecwgycwsfprcNwscqxpchfacxsmncnwscwsfinwcfap,cfmnsi
ynjhzxgakcfzqjncnwsciqqhcisnjiaspcognwcnoqcbfapxsyngbeycowgbwcwscnwijyn
qascfmnsicnwscqnwsicganqcnwscmgiscfapcbfiigspcnqcnwscnfzxsrcFcpsajpsp
iqqhcbfhscganqc.gsocfapcnwscmgiscxqyncfxxcgnycbwssimjxcbqxqjircNws
ofxxycqmcnwsciqqhcosisczfiscstbs ncmqicfcbq dcqmcfacsxsbngqacfppisyyr
Gacnwschgppxscqmcnwsciqqhcofycfcyhfxxcnfzxscqacowgbwc f siycosis
wsf spr

HicWdasycxsfaspcfkfgayncnwschfansx gsbscfapcfyesp:

“Wfycwsc fgpcdqjcdsn?”

“Aqncdsn,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Gcwq scnqcKqpcws’xxcaqncxsf.scjycgacnws
xjibwcnqagkwnr”

HicWdasycxfjkwspr

“Q,cws’xxc fdcdqjrcAs.sicmsfi,”cwscyfgpr

“Gcwq scws’xxcxqqecyhfincfzqjncgncgmcwschsfayczjygasyy,”cyfgpcHi
Q’Bqaaqir

“Owfncpqcdqjcnwgae,cUfbe?”cyfgpcHicWdasycyfngigbfxxdcnqcnwscqxpchfar

Nwscqxpchfacisnjiaspcnqcwgycysfnczdcnwscmgis,cyfdgak:

“Gncgya’nczjncwscwfycgn,cfadofdrcAqncxgescnwscqnwsicngaesir”

“Owfncqnwsicngaesi?”cyfgpcHicWdasyr

“Bqxkfa,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfacybqiamjxxdr

“GncgyczsbfjyscBqxkfa’ycfcoqiegak-hfacdqjcyfdcnwfn?cOwfn’ycnws
pgmmsisabsczsnossacfckqqpcwqasynczigbexfdsicfapcfc jzxgbfa—sw?cWfya’n
nwscoqiegak-hfacfyckqqpcfcigkwncnqczscgacnwscBqi qifngqacfycfadqas
sxys—fd,cfapcfczsnnsicigkwncnwfacnwqyscywqassaycnwfncfiscfxofdycwfncga
wfapczsmqiscfadcmsxxqocognwcfcwfapxscnqcwgycafhs?cGya’ncnwfncyq,cHfn?”
yfgpcHicWdasy,cfppisyygakcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Gcnwgaecdqj’iscigkwn,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Qaschfacgycfc xfgacwqasynchfacognwcaqcwjaesi-yxgpgakcfzqjncwghrcWs
kqsycgacnqcis isysancnwscxfzqjicbxfyysyrcNwgycmsxxqocdqj’iscoqiegakcmqi
qaxdcofanycnqcksncyqhscuqzcqicqnwsir”

“Qmcbqjiys,cnwscoqiegak-bxfyysycywqjxpczscis isysansp,”cyfgpcnwscqxp
hfar

“Nwscoqiegak-hfa,”cyfgpcHicWdasy,c“ksnycfxxcegbeycfapcaqcwfxm sabsrcZjn
gn’ycxfzqjic iqpjbsycs.sidnwgakrcNwscoqiegak-hfacgycaqncxqqegakcmqicmfn
uqzycmqicwgycyqaycfapcas wsoycfapcbqjygayrcNwscoqiegak-hfacgycaqnckqgak
nqcpifkcnwscwqaqjicqmcPjzxgacgacnwschjpcnqc xsfyscfcKsihfachqafibwr”

“Wqo’ycnwfn?”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Pqa’ncdqjceaqocnwsdcofancnqc isysancfacfppisyycqmcosxbqhscnqcSpofip
Istcgmcwscbqhsycwsiscastncdsfi?cOwfncpqcoscofanceqonqogakcnqcfcmqisgka
egak?”

“Qjichfacoqa’nc.qnscmqicnwscfppisyy,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Wsckqsycgacqa
nwscAfngqafxgyncngbesnr”

“Oqa’ncws?”cyfgpcHicWdasyrc“OfgncngxxcdqjcysscowsnwsicwscogxxcqicaqnrcG
eaqocwghrcGycgncNigbedcPgbedcNgsiasd?”

“ZdcKqp!c siwf ycdqj’iscigkwn,cUqs,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Fadofd,cGcogyw
ws’pcnjiacj cognwcnwscy qapjxgbyr”

NwscnwisschsacmsxxcygxsanrcNwscqxpchfaczskfacnqcifeschqiscbgapsiy
nqksnwsircHicWdasycnqqecqmmcwgycwfn,cywqqecgncfapcnwsacnjiaspcpqoacnws
bqxxficqmcwgycbqfn,cpgy xfdgak,cfycwscpgpcyq,cfacg.dcxsfmcgacnwscxf sxr

“Gmcnwgychfacofycfxg.s,”cwscyfgp,c qgangakcnqcnwscxsfm,c“os’pcwf.scaq
nfxecqmcfacfppisyycqmcosxbqhsr”

“Nwfn’ycnijs,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Hjywf,cKqpczscognwcnwshcnghsy!”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfarc“Nwsiscofycyqhscxgms
gacgncnwsar”

NwsciqqhcofycygxsancfkfgarcNwsacfczjynxgakcxgnnxschfacognwcfcyajmmxgak
aqyscfapc.sidcbqxpcsfiyc jywspcgacnwscpqqircWscofxespcq.sicljgbexdcnq
nwscmgis,cijzzgakcwgycwfapycfycgmcwscgansapspcnqc iqpjbscfcy fiecmiqh
nwshr

“Aqchqasd,czqdy,”cwscyfgpr

“Ygncpqoacwsis,cHicWsabwd,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfa,cqmmsigakcwghcwgycbwfgir

“Q,cpqa’ncyngi,cUfbe,cpqa’ncyngi,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

WscaqppspcbjinxdcnqcHicWdasycfapcyfncpqoacqacnwscbwfgicowgbwcnwscqxp
hfac.fbfnspr

“Pgpcdqjcysi.scFjakgsicYnissn?”cwscfyespcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,czskgaagakcnqcysfibwcwgyc qbesnycmqichshqifapfr

“PgpcdqjcbfxxcqacKighsy?”

“Gcpgpr”

“Osxx?cWqocpqsycwscynfap?”

“Wscoqjxpa’nc iqhgysrcWscyfgp:c‘Gcoqa’ncnsxxcfadqascowfncofdcG’hckqgak
nqc.qnsr’cZjncGcnwgaecws’xxczscfxxcigkwnr”

“Owdcyq?”

“Wscfyespchscowqcnwscaqhgafnqiycosis;cfapcGcnqxpcwghrcGchsangqasp
MfnwsicZjies’ycafhsrcGcnwgaecgn’xxczscfxxcigkwnr”

HicWsabwdczskfacnqcyajmmxscfapcnqcijzcwgycwfapycq.sicnwscmgiscfncf
nsiigmgbcy ssprcNwsacwscyfgp:

“Mqicnwscxq.scqmcKqp,cUfbe,czigakcjycfczgncqmcbqfxrcNwsischjynczscyqhs
xsmnr”

Nwscqxpchfacosancqjncqmcnwsciqqhr

“Gn’ycaqckq,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,cywfegakcwgycwsfprc“Gcfyespcnwscxgnnxs
ywqszqd,czjncwscyfgp:c‘Qw,caqo,cHicWsabwd,cowsacGcysscoqieckqgakcqa
 iq sixdcGcoqa’ncmqiksncdqj,cdqjchfdczscyjisr’cHsfacxgnnxscngaesi!
’Jywf,cwqocbqjxpcwsczscfadnwgakcsxys?”

“OwfncpgpcGcnsxxcdqj,cHfn?”cyfgpcHicWdasyrc“NigbedcPgbedcNgsiasdr”

“Q,cws’ycfycnigbedcfycnwsdchfesc’sh,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Wscwfya’nckqn
nwqyscxgnnxsc gky’csdsycmqicaqnwgakrcZxfyncwgycyqjx!cBqjxpa’ncwsc fdcj 
xgescfchfacgaynsfpcqm:c‘Q,caqo,cHicWsabwd,cGchjyncy sfecnqcHi
MfaagakrrrrcG’.scy sancfcxqncqmchqasd’?cHsfacxgnnxscywqszqdcqmcwsxx!cG
yj  qyscwscmqiksnycnwscnghscwgycxgnnxscqxpcmfnwsices ncnwscwfap-hs-pqoa
ywq cgacHfid’ycXfasr”

“Zjncgycnwfncfcmfbn?”cfyespcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Kqp,cdsy,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Pgpcdqjcas.sicwsficnwfn?cFapcnwschsacjysp
nqckqcgacqacYjapfdchqiagakczsmqiscnwscwqjysycosiscq sacnqczjdcf
ofgynbqfncqicfcniqjysiy—hqdf!cZjncNigbedcPgbed’ycxgnnxscqxpcmfnwsi
fxofdycwfpcfcnigbedcxgnnxsczxfbeczqnnxscj cgacfcbqiasircPqcdqjchgap
aqo?cNwfn’ycnwfnrcNwfn’ycowsiscwscmgiyncyfocnwscxgkwnr”

Nwscqxpchfacisnjiaspcognwcfcmsocxjh ycqmcbqfxcowgbwcwsc xfbspcwsiscfap
nwsiscqacnwscmgisr

“Nwfn’ycfcagbscwqo-pq-dqj-pq,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Wqocpqsycwscst sbncjy
nqcoqiecmqicwghcgmcwscoqa’ncynjh cj ?”

“Gcbfa’ncwsx cgn,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Gcst sbncnqcmgapcnwsczfgxgmmycga
nwscwfxxcowsacGckqcwqhsr”

HicWdasycxfjkwspcfap,cywq.gakcwghysxmcfofdcmiqhcnwschfansx gsbscognw
nwscfgpcqmcwgycywqjxpsiy,chfpscisfpdcnqcxsf.sr

“Gn’xxczscfxxcigkwncowsacEgakcSppgscbqhsy,”cwscyfgprc“Osxxczqdy,cG’h
qmmcmqicnwsc isysanrcYsscdqjcxfnsirc’Zds,c’zdsr”

WscosancqjncqmcnwsciqqhcyxqoxdrcAsgnwsicHicWsabwdcaqicnwscqxpchfacyfgp
fadnwgakczjn,cujyncfycnwscpqqicofycbxqygak,cHicQ’Bqaaqi,cowqcwfpczssa
ynfigakchqqpgxdcganqcnwscmgis,cbfxxspcqjncyjppsaxd:

“’Zds,cUqsr”

HicWsabwdcofgnspcfcmsochqhsanycfapcnwsacaqppspcgacnwscpgisbngqacqmcnws
pqqir

“Nsxxchs,”cwscyfgpcfbiqyycnwscmgis,c“owfnczigakycqjicmigsapcgacwsis?
Owfncpqsycwscofan?”

“’Jywf,c qqicUqs!”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,cnwiqogakcnwscsapcqmcwgycbgkfisnns
ganqcnwscmgis,c“ws’ycwfipcj ,cxgescnwscisyncqmcjyr”

HicWsabwdcyajmmxspc.gkqiqjyxdcfapcy fncyqcbq gqjyxdcnwfncwscasfixdc jn
qjncnwscmgis,cowgbwcjnnsispcfcwgyygakc iqnsynr

“Nqcnsxxcdqjchdc ig.fnscfapcbfapgpcq gagqa,”cwscyfgp,c“Gcnwgaecws’ycf
hfacmiqhcnwscqnwsicbfh rcWs’ycfcy dcqmcBqxkfa’y,cgmcdqjcfyechsrcUjynckq
iqjapcfapcnidcfapcmgapcqjncwqocnwsd’iscksnngakcqarcNwsdcoqa’ncyjy sbn
dqjrcPqcdqjcnogk?”

“Fw,c qqicUqscgycfcpsbsancyega,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Wgycmfnwsicofycfcpsbsancisy sbnfzxschfa,”cHicWsabwdcfphgnnsprc“ qqi
qxpcXfiidcWdasy!cHfadcfckqqpcnjiacwscpgpcgacwgycpfd!cZjncG’hckisfnxd
fmifgpcqjicmigsapcgycaqncagasnssacbfifnrcPfhacgn,cGcbfacjapsiynfapcf
msxxqoczsgakcwfipcj ,czjncowfncGcbfa’ncjapsiynfapcgycfcmsxxqocy qakgakr
Bqjxpa’ncwscwf.scyqhscy fiecqmchfawqqpcfzqjncwgh?”

“Wscpqsya’ncksncfcofihcosxbqhscmiqhchscowsacwscbqhsy,”cyfgpcnwscqxp
hfarc“Xsncwghcoqiecmqicwgycqoacygpscfapcaqncbqhscy dgakcfiqjapcwsisr”

“Gcpqa’nceaqo,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqicpjzgqjyxd,cfycwscnqqecqjn
bgkfisnns- f siycfapcnqzfbbqrc“GcnwgaecUqscWdasycgycfcynifgkwnchfar
Ws’ycfcbxs.sicbwf ,cnqq,cognwcnwsc sarcPqcdqjcishshzsicnwfncnwgakcws
oiqnsrrr?”

“Yqhscqmcnwsyscwgxxygpsiycfapcmsagfaycfiscfczgncnqqcbxs.sicgmcdqjcfye
hs,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Pqcdqjceaqocowfnchdc ig.fnscfapcbfapgpcq gagqacgy
fzqjncyqhscqmcnwqyscxgnnxscuqesiy?cGczsxgs.scwfxmcqmcnwshcfiscgacnws
 fdcqmcnwscBfynxsr”

“Nwsis’ycaqceaqogak,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Q,czjncGceaqocgncmqicfcmfbn,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Nwsd’iscBfynxs
wfbeyrrrrcGcpqa’ncyfdcWdasyrrrrcAq,cpfhacgn,cGcnwgaecws’ycfcyniqes
fzq.scnwfnrrrrcZjncnwsis’ycfcbsinfgacxgnnxscaqzxshfacognwcf
bqbe-sds—dqjceaqocnwsc fnigqncG’hcfxxjpgakcnq?”

HicQ’Bqaaqicaqppspr

“Nwsis’ycfcxgasfxcpsybsapfancqmcHfuqicYgiicmqicdqjcgmcdqjcxges!cQ,cnws
wsfin’yczxqqpcqmcfc fnigqn!cNwfn’ycfcmsxxqocaqocnwfn’pcysxxcwgycbqjanid
mqicmqji sabs—fd—fapckqcpqoacqacwgyczsapspceassycfapcnwfaecnwscFxhgkwnd
Bwigyncwscwfpcfcbqjanidcnqcysxxr”

Nwsiscofycfceaqbecfncnwscpqqir

“Bqhscga!”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

Fc siyqacisyshzxgakcfc qqicbxsikdhfacqicfc qqicfbnqicf  sfispcgacnws
pqqiofdrcWgyczxfbecbxqnwsycosiscngkwnxdczjnnqaspcqacwgycywqinczqpdcfap
gncofycgh qyygzxscnqcyfdcowsnwsicwscoqiscfcbxsikdhfa’ycbqxxficqicf
xfdhfa’y,czsbfjyscnwscbqxxficqmcwgycywfzzdcmiqbe-bqfn,cnwscjabq.sisp
zjnnqaycqmcowgbwcismxsbnspcnwscbfapxsxgkwn,cofycnjiaspcj cfzqjncwgy
asbercWscoqiscfciqjapcwfncqmcwfipczxfbecmsxnrcWgycmfbs,cywgagakcognw
ifgapiq y,cwfpcnwscf  sfifabscqmcpfh cdsxxqocbwssyscyf.scowsiscnoqciqyd
y qnycgapgbfnspcnwscbwssezqasyrcWscq saspcwgyc.sidcxqakchqjnwcyjppsaxd
nqcst isyycpgyf  qganhsancfapcfncnwscyfhscnghscq saspcogpscwgyc.sid
zigkwnczxjscsdsycnqcst isyyc xsfyjiscfapcyji igysr

“QcMfnwsicEsqa!”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,cujh gakcj cmiqhcwgycbwfgirc“Gycnwfn
dqj?cBqhscga!”

“Q,caq,caq,caq!”cyfgpcMfnwsicEsqacljgbexd,c jiygakcwgycxg ycfycgmcws
osiscfppisyygakcfcbwgxpr

“Oqa’ncdqjcbqhscgacfapcygncpqoa?”

“Aq,caq,caq!”cyfgpcMfnwsicEsqa,cy sfegakcgacfcpgybissncgapjxksan
.sx.sndc.qgbsrc“Pqa’ncxsnchscpgynjizcdqjcaqo!cG’hcujyncxqqegakcmqicHi
Mfaagakrrrr”

“Ws’yciqjapcfncnwsc_ZxfbecSfkxs_,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Zjncoqa’ncdqjcbqhs
gacfapcygncpqoacfchgajns?”

“Aq,caq,cnwfaecdqjrcGncofycujyncfcxgnnxsczjygasyychfnnsi,”cyfgpcMfnwsi
Esqarc“Nwfaecdqj,cgapsspr”

WscisnisfnspcmiqhcnwscpqqiofdcfapcHicWsabwd,cysgvgakcqascqmcnws
bfapxsyngbey,cosancnqcnwscpqqicnqcxgkwncwghcpqoaynfgiyr

“Q,cpqa’ncniqjzxs,cGczsk!”

“Aq,czjncnwscynfgiycgycyqcpfier”

“Aq,caq,cGcbfacyssrrrrcNwfaecdqj,cgapsspr”

“Fiscdqjcigkwncaqo?”

“Fxxcigkwn,cnwfaeyrrrrcNwfaeyr”

HicWsabwdcisnjiaspcognwcnwscbfapxsyngbecfapc jncgncqacnwscnfzxsrcWscyfn
pqoacfkfgacfncnwscmgisrcNwsiscofycygxsabscmqicfcmsochqhsanyr

“Nsxxchs,cUqwa,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,cxgkwngakcwgycbgkfisnnscognwcfaqnwsi
 fynszqfipcbfipr

“Wh?”

“Owfncwscgycstfbnxd?”

“Fyechscfacsfygsicqas,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

“Mfaagakcfapcwghysxmcysshcnqchsc.sidcnwgbercNwsd’iscqmnsacgacEf.fafkw’y
nqksnwsircGycwscfc igsyncfncfxx?”

“Hhhdsy,cGczsxgs.scyqrrrrcGcnwgaecws’ycowfncdqjcbfxxcfczxfbecywss rcOs
wf.sa’nchfadcqmcnwsh,cnwfaecKqp!czjncoscwf.scfcmsorrrrcWs’ycfa
jamqinjafnschfacqmcyqhscegaprrrr”

“Fapcwqocpqsycwsceaqbecgncqjn?”cfyespcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Nwfn’ycfaqnwsichdynsidr”

“Gycwscfnnfbwspcnqcfadcbwf sxcqicbwjibwcqicgayngnjngqacqi——”

“Aq,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“Gcnwgaecws’ycnif.sxxgakcqacwgycqoacfbbqjanrrrr
Kqpcmqikg.schs,”cwscfppsp,c“Gcnwqjkwncwscofycnwscpqvsacqmcynqjnr”

“Gycnwsiscfadcbwfabscqmcfcpigaecgnysxm?”cfyespcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“G’hcpidcnqq,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Gcfyespcnwfncxgnnxscywqszqdcnwisscnghsy,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“oqjxpcws
ysapcj cfcpqvsacqmcynqjnrcGcfyespcwghcfkfgacaqo,czjncwscofycxsfagakcqa
nwscbqjansicgacwgycywgin-yxss.sycwf.gakcfcpss ckqynsicognwcFxpsihfa
Bqoxsdr”

“Owdcpgpa’ncdqjcishgapcwgh?”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Osxx,cGcbqjxpa’nckqcq.sicowgxscwscofycnfxegakcnqcFxpsihfacBqoxsdrcG
ujyncofgnspcngxxcGcbfjkwncwgycsds,cfapcyfgp:c‘Fzqjncnwfncxgnnxschfnnsi
Gcofycy sfegakcnqcdqjcfzqjnrrrr’c‘Nwfn’xxczscfxxcigkwn,cHicWr,’cws
yfgprcDsiif,cyjiscnwscxgnnxscwq -q’-hd-nwjhzcwfycmqikqnnsacfxxcfzqjn
gnr”

“Nwsis’ycyqhscpsfxcqacgacnwfncljfinsi,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqicnwqjkwnmjxxdr
“GcyfocnwscnwisscqmcnwshcwfipcfncgncdsynsipfdcfncYjmmqxecYnissn
bqiasir”

“GcnwgaecGceaqocnwscxgnnxsckfhscnwsd’iscfn,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Dqjchjyn
qoscnwscBgndcMfnwsiychqasdcaqofpfdycgmcdqjcofancnqczschfpscXqipcHfdqir
Nwsacnwsd’xxchfescdqjcXqipcHfdqircZdcKqp!cG’hcnwgaegakcysigqjyxdcqm
zsbqhgakcfcBgndcMfnwsichdysxmrcOwfncpqcdqjcnwgae?cOqjxpcGcpqcmqicnws
uqz?”

HicQ’Bqaaqicxfjkwspr

“Yqcmficfycqogakchqasdckqsyrrrr”

“Pig.gakcqjncqmcnwscHfaygqacWqjys,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“gacfxxchdc.sihga,
ognwcUfbecwsiscynfapgakcj czswgapchscgacfc qopsispcogk—sw?”

“Fapchfeschscdqjic ig.fnscysbisnfid,cUqwar”

“DsyrcFapcG’xxchfescMfnwsicEsqachdc ig.fnscbwf xfgarcOs’xxcwf.scf
mfhgxdc findr”

“Mfgnw,cHicWsabwd,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfa,c“dqj’pcess cj czsnnsicyndxscnwfa
yqhscqmcnwshrcGcofycnfxegakcqascpfdcnqcqxpcEsskfa,cnwsc qinsirc‘Fapcwqo
pqcdqjcxgescdqjicasochfynsi,c fn?’cyfdycGcnqcwghrc‘Dqjcwf.sa’nchjbw
sansinfgagakcaqo,’cyfdycGrc‘Sansinfgagak!’cyfdycwsrc‘Ws’pcxg.scqacnws
yhsxxcqmcfacqgx-ifkr’cFapcpqcdqjceaqocowfncwscnqxpchs?cAqo,cGcpsbxfis
nqcKqpcGcpgpa’nczsxgs.scwghr”

“Owfn?”cyfgpcHicWsabwdcfapcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Wscnqxpchs:c‘OwfncpqcdqjcnwgaecqmcfcXqipcHfdqicqmcPjzxgacysapgakcqjn
mqicfc qjapcqmcbwq ycmqicwgycpgaasi?cWqo’ycnwfncmqicwgkwcxg.gak?’cyfdy
wsrc‘Ogywf!cogywf,’cyfdycGrc‘Fc qjapcqmcbwq y,’cyfdycws,c‘bqhgakcganq
nwscHfaygqacWqjysr’c‘Ogywf!’cyfdycG,c‘owfncegapcqmc sq xscgyckqgakcfn
fxxcaqo?’”

Fncnwgyc qgancnwsiscofycfceaqbecfncnwscpqqi,cfapcfczqdc jncgacwgycwsfpr

“Owfncgycgn?”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Miqhcnwsc_ZxfbecSfkxs_,”cyfgpcnwsczqd,cofxegakcgacygpsofdycfap
ps qygngakcfczfyesncqacnwscmxqqicognwcfcaqgyscqmcywfesaczqnnxsyr

Nwscqxpchfacwsx spcnwsczqdcnqcnifaymsicnwsczqnnxsycmiqhcnwsczfyesncnq
nwscnfzxscfapcbqjanspcnwscmjxxcnfxxdrcFmnsicnwscnifaymsicnwsczqdc jn
wgyczfyesncqacwgycfihcfapcfyesp:

“Fadczqnnxsy?”

“Owfnczqnnxsy?”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Oqa’ncdqjcxsncjycpigaecnwshcmgiyn?”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

“Gcofycnqxpcnqcfyecmqicnwsczqnnxsyr”

“Bqhsczfbecnqhqiiqo,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Wsis,czqd!”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“ogxxcdqjcijacq.sicnqcQ’Mfiisxx’ycfapcfye
wghcnqcxsapcjycfcbqieybiso—mqicHicWsabwd,cyfdrcNsxxcwghcoscoqa’ncess 
gncfchgajnsrcXsf.scnwsczfyesncnwsisr”

NwsczqdcosancqjncfapcHicWsabwdczskfacnqcijzcwgycwfapycbwssimjxxd,
yfdgak:

“Fw,cosxx,cws’ycaqncyqczfpcfmnsicfxxrcWs’ycfyckqqpcfycwgycoqip,
fadwqor”

“Nwsis’ycaqcnjhzxsiy,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Q,cpqa’ncxsncnwfncniqjzxscdqj,cUfbe,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Hfad’ycnwsckqqp
hfaczsmqiscaqocpifaecqjncqmcnwsczqnnxsr”

“Fadofd,cgn’yczsnnsicnwfacaqnwgak,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“Ws’ycaqncfczfpcyqin,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“qaxdcMfaagakcwfycyjbwcfcxqfacqm
wghrcWschsfaycosxx,cdqjceaqo,cgacwgycqoacnga qncofdr”

NwsczqdcbfhsczfbecognwcnwscbqieybisorcNwscqxpchfacq saspcnwissczqnnxsy
fapcofycwfapgakczfbecnwscbqieybisocowsacHicWsabwdcyfgpcnqcnwsczqd:

“Oqjxpcdqjcxgescfcpigae,czqd?”

“Gmcdqjc xsfys,cygi,”cyfgpcnwsczqdr

Nwscqxpchfacq saspcfaqnwsiczqnnxsckijpkgakxd,cfapcwfapspcgncnqcnwsczqdr

“Owfncfkscfiscdqj?”cwscfyespr

“Ys.sanssa,”cyfgpcnwsczqdr

Fycnwscqxpchfacyfgpcaqnwgakcmjinwsi,cnwsczqdcnqqecnwsczqnnxscfapcyfgp:
“Wsis’ychdczsyncisy sbny,cygi,”cnqcHicWsabwd,cpifaecnwscbqansany,c jn
nwsczqnnxsczfbecqacnwscnfzxscfapcog spcwgychqjnwcognwcwgycyxss.srcNwsa
wscnqqecj cnwscbqieybisocfapcosancqjncqmcnwscpqqicygpsofdy,chjnnsigak
yqhscmqihcqmcyfxjnfngqar

“Nwfn’ycnwscofdcgnczskgay,”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfar

“Nwscnwgacspkscqmcnwscospks,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

Nwscqxpchfacpgynigzjnspcnwscnwissczqnnxsycowgbwcwscwfpcq saspcfapcnws
hsacpifaecmiqhcnwshcyghjxnfasqjyxdrcFmnsicwf.gakcpijaecsfbwc xfbspcwgy
zqnnxscqacnwschfansx gsbscognwgacwfap’ycisfbwcfapcpisocgacfcxqakczisfnw
qmcyfngymfbngqar

“Osxx,cGcpgpcfckqqpcpfd’ycoqiecnqpfd,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,cfmnsicfc fjysr

“Nwfncyq,cUqwa?”

“DsyrcGckqncwghcqascqicnoqcyjiscnwgakycgacPfoyqacYnissn,cBiqmnqacfap
hdysxmrcZsnossacqjiysx.sy,cdqjceaqo,cBiqmnqac(ws’ycfcpsbsancbwf ,cqm
bqjiys),czjncws’ycaqncoqinwcfcpfhacfycfcbfa.fyysircWscwfya’ncfcoqipcnq
nwiqocnqcfcpqkrcWscynfapycfapcxqqeycfncnwsc sq xscowgxscGcpqcnws
nfxegakr”

WsiscnoqchsacsansispcnwsciqqhrcQascqmcnwshcofycfc.sidcmfnchfacowqys
zxjscysikscbxqnwsycysshspcnqczscgacpfaksicqmcmfxxgakcmiqhcwgycyxq gak
mgkjisrcWscwfpcfczgkcmfbscowgbwcisyshzxspcfcdqjakcqt’ycmfbscga
st isyygqa,cynfigakczxjscsdsycfapcfckigvvxspchqjynfbwsrcNwscqnwsichfa,
owqcofychjbwcdqjaksicfapcmifgxsi,cwfpcfcnwga,cbxsfa-ywf.sacmfbsrcWs
oqiscfc.sidcwgkwcpqjzxscbqxxficfapcfcogps-zighhspczqoxsicwfnr

“Wsxxq,cBiqmnqa!”cyfgpcHicWsabwdcnqcnwscmfnchfarc“Nfxecqmcnws
ps.gxrrrr”

“Owsiscpgpcnwsczqqyscbqhscmiqh?”cfyespcnwscdqjakchfarc“Pgpcnwscbqo
bfx.s?”

“Q,cqmcbqjiys,cXdqaycy qnycnwscpigaecmgiyncnwgak!”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,
xfjkwgakr

“Gycnwfncnwscofdcdqjcbwf ycbfa.fyy,”cyfgpcHicXdqay,c“fapcBiqmnqacfapcG
qjncgacnwscbqxpcfapcifgacxqqegakcmqic.qnsy?”

“Owd,czxfyncdqjicyqjx,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“G’pcksnchqisc.qnsycgacmg.s
hgajnsycnwfacdqjcnoq’pcksncgacfcosser”

“Q sacnoqczqnnxsycqmcynqjn,cUfbe,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“WqocbfacG?”cyfgpcnwscqxpchfa,c“owsacnwsis’ycaqcbqieybiso?”

“Ofgncaqo,cofgncaqo!”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,cksnngakcj cljgbexdrc“Pgpcdqjcs.si
ysscnwgycxgnnxscnigbe?”

Wscnqqecnoqczqnnxsycmiqhcnwscnfzxscfap,cbfiidgakcnwshcnqcnwscmgis,c jn
nwshcqacnwscwqzrcNwsacwscyfncpqoacfkfgaczdcnwscmgiscfapcnqqecfaqnwsi
pigaecmiqhcwgyczqnnxsrcHicXdqaycyfncqacnwscspkscqmcnwscnfzxs,c jywsp
wgycwfncnqofipycnwscaf scqmcwgycasbecfapczskfacnqcyogakcwgycxskyr

“Owgbwcgychdczqnnxs?”cwscfyespr

“Nwgycxfp,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

HicBiqmnqacyfncpqoacqacfczqtcfapcxqqespcmgtspxdcfncnwscqnwsiczqnnxscqa
nwscwqzrcWscofycygxsancmqicnoqcisfyqayrcNwscmgiyncisfyqa,cyjmmgbgsancga
gnysxm,cofycnwfncwscwfpcaqnwgakcnqcyfd;cnwscysbqapcisfyqacofycnwfncws
bqaygpsispcwgycbqh fagqayczsasfnwcwghrcWscwfpczssacfcbfa.fyysicmqi
Ogxegay,cnwscBqaysi.fng.s,czjncowsacnwscBqaysi.fng.sycwfpcognwpifoa
nwsgichfacfap,cbwqqygakcnwscxsyysicqmcnoqcs.gxy,ckg.sacnwsgicyj  qincnq
nwscAfngqafxgyncbfapgpfns,cwscwfpczssacsakfkspcnqcoqiecmqicHicNgsiasdr

Gacfcmsochgajnsycfacf qxqksngbc“ qe!”cofycwsfipcfycnwscbqiecmxsocqjncqm
HicXdqay’czqnnxsrcHicXdqaycujh spcqmmcnwscnfzxs,cosancnqcnwscmgis,cnqqe
wgyczqnnxscfapcbfiigspcgnczfbecnqcnwscnfzxsr

“Gcofycujyncnsxxgakcnwsh,cBiqmnqa,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“nwfncosckqncfckqqp
msoc.qnsycnqpfdr”

“Owqcpgpcdqjcksn?”cfyespcHicXdqayr

“Osxx,cGckqnc fiesycmqicqas,cfapcGckqncFnegayqacmqicnoq,cfapckqncOfip
qmcPfoyqacYnissnrcMgascqxpcbwf cwscgy,cnqq—iskjxficqxpcnqmm,cqxp
Bqaysi.fng.s!c‘Zjncgya’ncdqjicbfapgpfnscfcAfngqafxgyn?’cyfgpcwsrc‘Ws’y
fcisy sbnfzxschfa,’cyfgpcGrc‘Ws’ycgacmf.qjicqmcowfns.sicogxxczsasmgn
nwgycbqjanidrcWs’ycfczgkcifns fdsi,’cGcyfgprc‘Wscwfycstnsayg.scwqjys
 iq sindcgacnwscbgndcfapcnwissc xfbsycqmczjygasyycfapcgya’ncgncnqcwgy
qoacfp.fanfkscnqcess cpqoacnwscifnsy?cWs’ycfc iqhgasancfapcisy sbnsp
bgngvsa,’cyfgpcG,c‘fapcfc qqicXfocKjfipgfa,cfapcwscpqsya’nczsxqakcnq
fadc find,ckqqp,czfp,cqicgapgmmsisanr’cNwfn’ycnwscofdcnqcnfxecnqc’shr”

“FapcowfncfzqjncnwscfppisyycnqcnwscEgak?”cyfgpcHicXdqay,cfmnsicpigaegak
fapcyhfbegakcwgycxg yr

“Xgynsacnqchs,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Owfncoscofancgacnwgycbqjanid,cfycG
yfgpcnqcqxpcOfip,cgycbf gnfxrcNwscEgak’ycbqhgakcwsiscogxxchsfacfa
gamxjtcqmchqasdcganqcnwgycbqjanidrcNwscbgngvsaycqmcPjzxgacogxxczsasmgn
zdcgnrcXqqecfncfxxcnwscmfbnqigsycpqoaczdcnwscljfdycnwsis,cgpxs!cXqqecfn
fxxcnwschqasdcnwsiscgycgacnwscbqjanidcgmcoscqaxdcoqiespcnwscqxp
gapjynigsy,cnwschgxxy,cnwscywg -zjgxpgakcdfipycfapcmfbnqigsyrcGn’y
bf gnfxcoscofanr”

“Zjncxqqecwsis,cUqwa,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Owdcywqjxpcoscosxbqhscnws
EgakcqmcSakxfap?cPgpa’nc fiasxxcwghysxmrrrr”

“ fiasxx,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“gycpsfprcAqo,cwsis’ycnwscofdcGcxqqecfncgnr
Wsis’ycnwgycbwf cbqhscnqcnwscnwiqascfmnsicwgycqxpchqnwsicess gakcwgh
qjncqmcgncngxxcnwschfacofyckisdrcWs’ycfchfacqmcnwscoqixp,cfapcwschsfay
osxxczdcjyrcWs’ycfcuqxxdcmgascpsbsancmsxxqo,cgmcdqjcfyechs,cfapcaqcpfha
aqaysayscfzqjncwghrcWscujyncyfdycnqcwghysxm:c‘Nwscqxpcqascas.sicosancnq
ysscnwsyscogxpcGigywrcZdcBwigyn,cG’xxckqchdysxmcfapcysscowfncnwsd’is
xgesr’cFapcfiscosckqgakcnqcgayjxncnwschfacowsacwscbqhsycq.sicwsiscqacf
migsapxdc.gygn?cSw?cGya’ncnwfncigkwn,cBiqmnqa?”

HicBiqmnqacaqppspcwgycwsfpr

“Zjncfmnsicfxxcaqo,”cyfgpcHicXdqaycfikjhsanfng.sxd,c“EgakcSpofip’y
xgms,cdqjceaqo,cgycaqncnwsc.sidrrrr”

“Xsnczdkqasyczsczdkqasy,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Gcfphgiscnwschfac siyqafxxdr
Ws’ycujyncfacqipgafidceaqbefzqjncxgescdqjcfapchsrcWs’ycmqapcqmcwgy
kxfyycqmckiqkcfapcws’ycfczgncqmcfcifes,c siwf y,cfapcws’ycfckqqp
y qinyhfarcPfhacgn,cbfa’ncoscGigywc xfdcmfgi?”

“Nwfn’ycfxxc.sidcmgas,”cyfgpcHicXdqayrc“Zjncxqqecfncnwscbfyscqmc fiasxx
aqor”

“GacnwscafhscqmcKqp,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“owsis’ycnwscfafxqkdczsnossacnws
noqcbfysy?”

“OwfncGchsfa,”cyfgpcHicXdqay,c“gycoscwf.scqjicgpsfxyrcOwd,caqo,coqjxp
oscosxbqhscfchfacxgescnwfn?cPqcdqjcnwgaecaqocfmnsicowfncwscpgpc fiasxx
ofycfcmgnchfacnqcxsfpcjy?cFapcowd,cnwsa,coqjxpcoscpqcgncmqicSpofipcnws
Ys.sanw?”

“Nwgycgyc fiasxx’ycfaag.siyfid,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,c“fapcpqa’ncxsncjy
yngicj cfadczfpczxqqprcOscfxxcisy sbncwghcaqocnwfncws’ycpsfpcfap
kqas—s.sacnwscBqaysi.fng.sy,”cwscfppsp,cnjiagakcnqcHicBiqmnqar

 qe!cNwscnfipdcbqiecmxsocqjncqmcHicBiqmnqa’yczqnnxsrcHicBiqmnqackqncj 
miqhcwgyczqtcfapcosancnqcnwscmgisrcFycwscisnjiaspcognwcwgycbf njiscws
yfgpcgacfcpss c.qgbs:

“Qjicygpscqmcnwscwqjyscisy sbnycwgh,czsbfjyscwscofycfcksanxshfar”

“Igkwncdqjcfis,cBiqmnqa!”cyfgpcHicWsabwdcmgsibsxdrc“Wscofycnwscqaxdchfa
nwfncbqjxpcess cnwfnczfkcqmcbfnycgacqipsirc‘Pqoa,cdscpqky!cXgscpqoa,cds
bjiy!’cNwfn’ycnwscofdcwscnisfnspcnwshrcBqhscga,cUqs!cBqhscga!”cws
bfxxspcqjn,cbfnbwgakcygkwncqmcHicWdasycgacnwscpqqiofdr

HicWdasycbfhscgacyxqoxdr

“Q sacfaqnwsiczqnnxscqmcynqjn,cUfbe,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Q,cGcmqikqn
nwsis’ycaqcbqieybiso!cWsis,cywqochscqascwsiscfapcG’xxc jncgncfncnws
mgisr”

Nwscqxpchfacwfapspcwghcfaqnwsiczqnnxscfapcwsc xfbspcgncqacnwscwqzr

“Ygncpqoa,cUqs,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,c“os’iscujyncnfxegakcfzqjncnws
Bwgsmr”

“Fd,cfd!”cyfgpcHicWsabwdr

HicWdasycyfncqacnwscygpscqmcnwscnfzxscasficHicXdqayczjncyfgpcaqnwgakr

“Nwsis’ycqascqmcnwsh,cfadwqo,”cyfgpcHicWsabwd,c“nwfncpgpa’ncisaskscwghr
ZdcKqp,cG’xxcyfdcmqicdqj,cUqs!cAq,czdcKqp,cdqjcynjbecnqcwghcxgescf
hfa!”

“Q,cUqs,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqicyjppsaxdrc“Kg.scjycnwfncnwgakcdqjcoiqns—pq
dqjcishshzsi?cWf.scdqjckqncgncqacdqj?”

“Q,cfd!”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Kg.scjycnwfnrcPgpcdqjcs.sicwsficnwfn,
Biqmnqa?cXgynsacnqcnwgycaqo:cy xsapgpcnwgakr”

“Kqcqa,”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqirc“Mgiscfofd,cUqsr”

HicWdasycpgpcaqncysshcnqcishshzsicfncqabscnwsc gsbscnqcowgbwcnwsdcosis
fxxjpgakczjn,cfmnsicismxsbngakcfcowgxs,cwscyfgp:

“Q,cnwfncnwgakcgycgnrrrrcYjis,cnwfn’ycqxpcaqor”

“Qjncognwcgn,chfa!”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqir

“’Yw,c’yw,”cyfgpcHicWsabwdrc“Aqo,cUqs!”

HicWdasycwsygnfnspcfcxgnnxscxqaksircNwsacfhgpcnwscygxsabscwscnqqecqmm
wgycwfn,cxfgpcgncqacnwscnfzxscfapcynqqpcj rcWscysshspcnqczsciswsfiygak
nwsc gsbscgacwgychgaprcFmnsicfcifnwsicxqakc fjyscwscfaaqjabsp:

cccccNWScPSFNWcQMc FIASXX
ccccc6_nwcQbnqzsi_c1891


Wscbxsfispcwgycnwiqfncqabscqicnogbscfapcnwsaczskfacnqcisbgns:

cccccWscgycpsfprcQjicJabiqoaspcEgakcgycpsfpr
cccccccccQ,cSiga,chqjiacognwckigsmcfapcoqs
cccccMqicwscxgsycpsfpcowqhcnwscmsxxckfak
cccccccccQmchqpsiacwd qbignsycxfgpcxqor

cccccWscxgsycyxfgaczdcnwscbqofipcwqjapy
cccccccccWscifgyspcnqckxqidcmiqhcnwschgis;
cccccFapcSiga’ycwq sycfapcSiga’ycpisfhy
ccccccccc sigywcj qacwsichqafibw’yc disr

cccccGac fxfbs,cbfzgacqicgacbqn
cccccccccNwscGigywcwsfincowsis’sicgnczs
cccccGyczqospcognwcoqs—mqicwscgyckqas
cccccccccOwqcoqjxpcwf.scoiqjkwncwsicpsyngadr

cccccWscoqjxpcwf.scwfpcwgycSigacmfhsp,
cccccccccNwsckissacmxfkckxqigqjyxdcjamjixsp,
cccccWsicynfnsyhsa,czfipycfapcofiigqiycifgysp
cccccccccZsmqiscnwscafngqaycqmcnwscOqixpr

cccccWscpisfhspc(fxfy,c’nofyczjncfcpisfh!)
cccccccccQmcXgzsind:czjncfycwscyniq.s
cccccNqcbxjnbwcnwfncgpqx,cnisfbwsid
cccccccccYjapsispcwghcmiqhcnwscnwgakcwscxq.spr

cccccYwfhscqacnwscbqofip,cbfgngmmcwfapy
cccccccccNwfncyhqnscnwsgicXqipcqicognwcfcegyy
cccccZsnifdspcwghcnqcnwscifzzxs-iqjn
cccccccccQmcmfoagakc igsyny—aqcmigsapycqmcwgyr

cccccHfdcs.sixfyngakcywfhscbqayjhs
cccccccccNwschshqidcqmcnwqyscowqcnigsp
cccccNqczsmqjxcfapcyhsficnwscstfxnspcafhs
cccccccccQmcqascowqcy jiaspcnwshcgacwgyc igpsr

cccccWscmsxxcfycmfxxcnwschgkwndcqasy,
cccccccccAqzxdcjapfjanspcnqcnwscxfyn,
cccccFapcpsfnwcwfycaqocjagnspcwgh
cccccccccOgnwcSiga’ycwsiqsycqmcnwsc fynr

cccccAqcyqjapcqmcynigmscpgynjizcwgycyxss !
cccccccccBfxhxdcwscisyny:caqcwjhfac fga
cccccQicwgkwcfhzgngqacy jiycwghcaqo
cccccccccNwsc sfeycqmckxqidcnqcfnnfgar

cccccNwsdcwfpcnwsgicofd:cnwsdcxfgpcwghcxqor
cccccccccZjncSiga,cxgyn,cwgycy gignchfd
cccccIgys,cxgescnwsc wœagtcmiqhcnwscmxfhsy,
cccccccccOwsaczisfeycnwscpfoagakcqmcnwscpfd,

cccccNwscpfdcnwfnczigakycjycMisspqh’ycisgkar
cccccccccFapcqacnwfncpfdchfdcSigacosxx
ccccc xspkscgacnwscbj cywscxgmnycnqcUqd
cccccccccQasckigsm—nwschshqidcqmc fiasxxr


HicWdasycyfncpqoacfkfgacqacnwscnfzxsrcOwsacwscwfpcmgagywspcwgy
isbgnfngqacnwsiscofycfcygxsabscfapcnwsacfczjiyncqmcbxf  gak:cs.sacHi
Xdqaycbxf  sprcNwscf  xfjyscbqangajspcmqicfcxgnnxscnghsrcOwsacgncwfp
bsfyspcfxxcnwscfjpgnqiycpifaecmiqhcnwsgiczqnnxsycgacygxsabsr

 qe!cNwscbqiecmxsocqjncqmcHicWdasy’czqnnxs,czjncHicWdasycishfgasp
ygnngakcmxjywspcfapczfiswsfpspcqacnwscnfzxsrcWscpgpcaqncysshcnqcwf.s
wsfipcnwscga.gnfngqar

“Kqqpchfa,cUqs!”cyfgpcHicQ’Bqaaqi,cnfegakcqjncwgycbgkfisnnsc f siycfap
 qjbwcnwsczsnnsicnqcwgpscwgycshqngqar

“Owfncpqcdqjcnwgaecqmcnwfn,cBiqmnqa?”cbigspcHicWsabwdrc“Gya’ncnwfn
mgas?cOwfn?”

HicBiqmnqacyfgpcnwfncgncofycfc.sidcmgasc gsbscqmcoigngakr



FcHQNWSI

HicWqxqwfa,cfyygynfancysbisnfidcqmcnwsc_SgiscFzj_cYqbgsnd,cwfpczssa
ofxegakcj cfapcpqoacPjzxgacmqicasfixdcfchqanw,cognwcwgycwfapycfap
 qbesnycmjxxcqmcpgindc gsbsycqmc f si,cfiifakgakcfzqjncnwscysigsycqm
bqabsinyrcWscwfpcfckfhscxskcfapcmqicnwgycwgycmigsapycbfxxspcwghcWq  d
WqxqwfarcWscofxespcj cfapcpqoacbqaynfanxd,cynqqpczdcnwscwqjicfncynissn
bqiasiycfikjgakcnwsc qgancfapchfpscaqnsy;czjncgacnwscsapcgncofycHiy
Esfiasdcowqcfiifakspcs.sidnwgakr

HgyycPs.xgacwfpczsbqhscHiycEsfiasdcqjncqmcy gnsrcYwscwfpczssacspjbfnsp
gacfcwgkw-bxfyycbqa.san,cowsiscywscwfpcxsfiaspcMisabwcfapchjygbrcFycyws
ofycafnjifxxdc fxscfapcjazsapgakcgachfaasicywschfpscmsocmigsapycfn
ybwqqxrcOwsacywscbfhscnqcnwscfkscqmchfiigfkscywscofycysancqjncnqchfad
wqjysycowsiscwsic xfdgakcfapcg.qidchfaasiycosischjbwcfphgisprcYwscyfn
fhgpcnwscbwgxxdcbgibxscqmcwsicfbbqh xgywhsany,cofgngakcmqicyqhscyjgnqi
nqczif.scgncfapcqmmsicwsicfczigxxgfancxgmsrcZjncnwscdqjakchsacowqhcyws
hsncosiscqipgafidcfapcywsckf.scnwshcaqcsabqjifkshsan,cnidgakcnqcbqayqxs
wsiciqhfangbcpsygisyczdcsfngakcfckisfncpsfxcqmcNjiegywcPsxgkwncga
ysbisnrcWqos.si,cowsacywscpisocasficnwscxghgncfapcwsicmigsapyczskfacnq
xqqysacnwsgicnqakjsycfzqjncwsi,cywscygxsabspcnwshczdchfiidgakcHi
Esfiasd,cowqcofycfczqqnhfesicqacQihqapcLjfdr

WscofychjbwcqxpsicnwfacywsrcWgycbqa.siyfngqa,cowgbwcofycysigqjy,cnqqe
 xfbscfncgansi.fxycgacwgyckisfncziqoaczsfiprcFmnsicnwscmgiyncdsficqm
hfiigspcxgms,cHiycEsfiasdc sibsg.spcnwfncyjbwcfchfacoqjxpcosficzsnnsi
nwfacfciqhfangbc siyqa,czjncywscas.sic jncwsicqoaciqhfangbcgpsfycfofdr
Wscofycyqzsi,cnwigmndcfapc gqjy;cwscosancnqcnwscfxnfics.sidcmgiyn
Migpfd,cyqhsnghsycognwcwsi,cqmnsasiczdcwghysxmrcZjncywscas.sicosfesasp
gacwsicisxgkgqacfapcofycfckqqpcogmscnqcwghrcFncyqhsc findcgacfcynifaks
wqjyscowsacywscxgmnspcwsicsdsziqocs.sicyqcyxgkwnxdcwscynqqpcj cnqcnfes
wgycxsf.scfap,cowsacwgycbqjkwcniqjzxspcwgh,cywsc jncnwscsgpsi-pqoa
ljgxncq.sicwgycmssncfapchfpscfcyniqakcijhc jabwrcMqicwgyc fin,cwscofycf
hqpsxcmfnwsircZdc fdgakcfcyhfxxcyjhcs.sidcossecganqcfcyqbgsnd,cws
sayjispcmqiczqnwcwgycpfjkwnsiycfcpqoidcqmcqascwjapispc qjapycsfbwcowsa
nwsdcbfhscnqcnwscfkscqmcnosand-mqjircWscysancnwscsxpsicpfjkwnsi,
Efnwxssa,cnqcfckqqpcbqa.san,cowsiscywscxsfiaspcMisabwcfapchjygb,cfap
fmnsiofipc fgpcwsicmssycfncnwscFbfpshdrcS.sidcdsficgacnwschqanwcqmcUjxd
HiycEsfiasdcmqjapcqbbfygqacnqcyfdcnqcyqhscmigsap:

“Hdckqqpchfacgyc fbegakcjycqmmcnqcYesiigsycmqicfcmsocosseyr”

GmcgncofycaqncYesiigsycgncofycWqonwcqicKisdynqasyr

OwsacnwscGigywcIs.g.fxczskfacnqczscf  isbgfzxscHiycEsfiasdcpsnsihgasp
nqcnfescfp.fanfkscqmcwsicpfjkwnsi’ycafhscfapcziqjkwncfacGigywcnsfbwsi
nqcnwscwqjysrcEfnwxssacfapcwsicygynsicysancGigywc gbnjisc qynbfipycnq
nwsgicmigsapycfapcnwsyscmigsapycysanczfbecqnwsicGigywc gbnjis
 qynbfipyrcQacy sbgfxcYjapfdy,cowsacHicEsfiasdcosancognwcwgycmfhgxdcnq
nwsc iq-bfnwspifx,cfcxgnnxscbiqopcqmc sq xscoqjxpcfyyshzxscfmnsichfyy
fncnwscbqiasicqmcBfnwspifxcYnissnrcNwsdcosiscfxxcmigsapycqmcnws
Esfiasdy—hjygbfxcmigsapycqicAfngqafxgyncmigsapy;cfap,cowsacnwsdcwfp
 xfdspcs.sidcxgnnxscbqjansicqmckqyyg ,cnwsdcywqqecwfapycognwcqas
faqnwsicfxxcnqksnwsi,cxfjkwgakcfncnwscbiqyygakcqmcyqchfadcwfapy,cfap
yfgpckqqp-zdscnqcqascfaqnwsicgacGigywrcYqqacnwscafhscqmcHgyycEfnwxssa
Esfiasdczskfacnqczscwsfipcqmnsacqac sq xs’ycxg yrc sq xscyfgpcnwfncyws
ofyc.sidcbxs.sicfnchjygbcfapcfc.sidcagbsckgixcfap,chqisq.si,cnwfncyws
ofycfczsxgs.sicgacnwscxfakjfkschq.shsanrcHiycEsfiasdcofycosxxcbqansan
fncnwgyrcNwsismqiscywscofycaqncyji igyspcowsacqascpfdcHicWqxqwfacbfhs
nqcwsicfapc iq qyspcnwfncwsicpfjkwnsicywqjxpczscnwscfbbqh fagyncfncf
ysigsycqmcmqjickifapcbqabsinycowgbwcwgycYqbgsndcofyckqgakcnqckg.scga
nwscFangsancBqabsincIqqhyrcYwscziqjkwncwghcganqcnwscpifogak-iqqh,chfps
wghcygncpqoacfapcziqjkwncqjncnwscpsbfansicfapcnwscygx.si
zgybjgn-zfiisxrcYwscsansispcwsfincfapcyqjxcganqcnwscpsnfgxycqmcnws
sansi igys,cfp.gyspcfapcpgyyjfpsp;cfapcmgafxxdcfcbqanifbncofycpifoacj 
zdcowgbwcEfnwxssacofycnqcisbsg.scsgkwnckjgasfycmqicwsicysi.gbsycfy
fbbqh fagyncfncnwscmqjickifapcbqabsinyr

FycHicWqxqwfacofycfcaq.gbscgacyjbwcpsxgbfnschfnnsiycfycnwscoqipgakcqm
zgxxycfapcnwscpgy qygakcqmcgnshycmqicfc iqkifhhs,cHiycEsfiasdcwsx sp
wghrcYwscwfpcnfbnrcYwsceasocowfnc_fingynsy_cywqjxpckqcganqcbf gnfxycfap
owfnc_fingynsy_cywqjxpckqcganqcyhfxxcnd srcYwsceasocnwfncnwscmgiyn
nsaqicoqjxpcaqncxgescnqcbqhscqacfmnsicHicHsfps’ycbqhgbcnjiarcNqcess 
nwscfjpgsabscbqangajfxxdcpg.sinspcywscyxg  spcnwscpqjznmjxcgnshycga
zsnossacnwscqxpcmf.qjignsyrcHicWqxqwfacbfxxspcnqcysscwsics.sidcpfdcnq
wf.scwsicfp.gbscqacyqhsc qganrcYwscofycga.figfzxdcmigsapxdcfap
fp.gygak—wqhsxd,cgacmfbnrcYwsc jywspcnwscpsbfansicnqofipycwgh,cyfdgak:

“Aqo,cwsx cdqjiysxm,cHicWqxqwfa!”

Fapcowgxscwscofycwsx gakcwghysxmcywscyfgp:

“Pqa’nczscfmifgp!cPqa’nczscfmifgpcqmcgn!”

S.sidnwgakcosancqacyhqqnwxdrcHiycEsfiasdczqjkwncyqhscxq.sxdczxjyw- gae
bwfihsjyscgacZiqoacNwqhfy’ycnqcxsncganqcnwscmiqancqmcEfnwxssa’ycpisyyr
Gncbqyncfc isnndc saad;czjncnwsiscfiscqbbfygqaycowsacfcxgnnxscst says
gycujyngmgfzxsrcYwscnqqecfcpqvsacqmcnoq-ywgxxgakcngbesnycmqicnwscmgafx
bqabsincfapcysancnwshcnqcnwqyscmigsapycowqcbqjxpcaqnczscnijynspcnqcbqhs
qnwsiogysrcYwscmqikqncaqnwgakcfap,cnwfaeycnqcwsi,cs.sidnwgakcnwfncofy
nqczscpqascofycpqasr

NwscbqabsinycosiscnqczscqacOspasypfd,cNwjiypfd,cMigpfdcfapcYfnjipfdr
OwsacHiycEsfiasdcfiig.spcognwcwsicpfjkwnsicfncnwscFangsancBqabsincIqqhy
qacOspasypfdcagkwncywscpgpcaqncxgescnwscxqqecqmcnwgakyrcFcmsocdqjak
hsa,cosfigakczigkwnczxjsczfpksycgacnwsgicbqfny,cynqqpcgpxscgacnws
.syngzjxs;caqascqmcnwshcoqiscs.sagakcpisyyrcYwsc fyyspczdcognwcwsi
pfjkwnsicfapcfcljgbeckxfabscnwiqjkwcnwscq sacpqqicqmcnwscwfxxcywqosp
wsicnwscbfjyscqmcnwscynsofipy’cgpxsasyyrcFncmgiyncywscoqapsispcwfpcyws
hgynfesacnwscwqjircAq,cgncofycnosandchgajnsycnqcsgkwnr

Gacnwscpisyygak-iqqhczswgapcnwscynfkscywscofycganiqpjbspcnqcnws
ysbisnfidcqmcnwscYqbgsnd,cHicMgnv fnigbercYwscyhgxspcfapcywqqecwgy
wfaprcWscofycfcxgnnxschfa,cognwcfcowgnsc.fbfancmfbsrcYwscaqngbspcnwfn
wscoqiscwgycyqmncziqoacwfncbfisxsyyxdcqacnwscygpscqmcwgycwsfpcfapcnwfn
wgycfbbsancofycmxfnrcWscwsxpcfc iqkifhhscgacwgycwfapcfap,cowgxscwscofy
nfxegakcnqcwsi,cwscbwsospcqascsapcqmcgncganqcfchqgync jx rcWscysshspcnq
zsficpgyf  qganhsanycxgkwnxdrcHicWqxqwfacbfhscganqcnwscpisyygak-iqqh
s.sidcmsochgajnsycognwcis qinycmiqhcnwsczqt-qmmgbsrcNwsc_fingynsy_
nfxespcfhqakcnwshysx.sycasi.qjyxd,ckxfabspcmiqhcnghscnqcnghscfncnws
hgiiqicfapciqxxspcfapcjaiqxxspcnwsgichjygbrcOwsacgncofycasfixd
wfxm- fyncsgkwn,cnwscmsoc sq xscgacnwscwfxxczskfacnqcst isyycnwsgi
psygiscnqczscsansinfgasprcHicMgnv fnigbecbfhscga,cyhgxspc.fbfanxdcfn
nwsciqqh,cfapcyfgp:

“Osxxcaqo,cxfpgsycfapcksanxshsarcGcyj  qyscos’pczsnnsicq sacnwsczfxxr”

HiycEsfiasdcisofipspcwgyc.sidcmxfncmgafxcydxxfzxscognwcfcljgbecynfiscqm
bqansh n,cfapcnwsacyfgpcnqcwsicpfjkwnsicsabqjifkgakxd:

“Fiscdqjcisfpd,cpsfi?”

Owsacywscwfpcfacq  qinjagnd,cywscbfxxspcHicWqxqwfacfygpscfapcfyespcwgh
nqcnsxxcwsicowfncgnchsfanrcHicWqxqwfacpgpcaqnceaqocowfncgnchsfanrcWs
yfgpcnwfncnwscBqhhgnnsscwfpchfpscfchgynfescgacfiifakgakcmqicmqji
bqabsiny:cmqjicofycnqqchfadr

“Fapcnwsc_fingynsy_!”cyfgpcHiycEsfiasdrc“Qmcbqjiyscnwsdcfiscpqgakcnwsgi
zsyn,czjncisfxxdcnwsdcfiscaqnckqqpr”

HicWqxqwfacfphgnnspcnwfncnwsc_fingynsy_cosiscaqckqqpczjncnwscBqhhgnnss,
wscyfgp,cwfpcpsbgpspcnqcxsncnwscmgiyncnwisscbqabsinyckqcfycnwsdc xsfysp
fapcisysi.scfxxcnwscnfxsancmqicYfnjipfdcagkwnrcHiycEsfiasdcyfgp
aqnwgak,czjn,cfycnwschspgqbiscgnshycmqxxqospcqascfaqnwsicqacnws
 xfnmqihcfapcnwscmsoc sq xscgacnwscwfxxckisocmsosicfapcmsosi,cywsczskfa
nqciskisncnwfncywscwfpc jncwsiysxmcnqcfadcst sayscmqicyjbwcfcbqabsinr
Nwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcywscpgpa’ncxgescgacnwscxqqecqmcnwgakycfapcHi
Mgnv fnigbe’yc.fbfancyhgxscgiignfnspcwsic.sidchjbwrcWqos.si,cywscyfgp
aqnwgakcfapcofgnspcnqcysscwqocgncoqjxpcsaprcNwscbqabsincst gispcywqinxd
zsmqiscnsa,cfapcs.sidqascosancwqhscljgbexdr

NwscbqabsincqacNwjiypfdcagkwncofyczsnnsicfnnsapsp,czjncHiycEsfiasdcyfo
fncqabscnwfncnwscwqjyscofycmgxxspcognwc f sircNwscfjpgsabsczswf.sp
gapsbqiqjyxd,cfycgmcnwscbqabsincosiscfacgamqihfxcpisyyciswsfiyfxrcHi
Mgnv fnigbecysshspcnqcsauqdcwghysxm;cwscofycljgnscjabqaybgqjycnwfncHiy
EsfiasdcofycnfegakcfakidcaqnscqmcwgycbqapjbnrcWscynqqpcfncnwscspkscqm
nwscybissa,cmiqhcnghscnqcnghscujnngakcqjncwgycwsfpcfapcstbwfakgakcf
xfjkwcognwcnoqcmigsapycgacnwscbqiasicqmcnwsczfxbqadrcGacnwscbqjiyscqm
nwscs.sagak,cHiycEsfiasdcxsfiaspcnwfncnwscMigpfdcbqabsincofycnqczs
fzfapqaspcfapcnwfncnwscBqhhgnnsscofyckqgakcnqchq.scwsf.sacfapcsfinwcnq
ysbjiscfczjh sicwqjyscqacYfnjipfdcagkwnrcOwsacywscwsfipcnwgy,cyws
yqjkwncqjncHicWqxqwfarcYwsczjnnqawqxspcwghcfycwscofycxgh gakcqjn
ljgbexdcognwcfckxfyycqmcxshqafpscmqicfcdqjakcxfpdcfapcfyespcwghcofycgn
nijsrcDsy,cgncofycnijsr

“Zjn,cqmcbqjiys,cnwfncpqsya’ncfxnsicnwscbqanifbn,”cywscyfgprc“Nws
bqanifbncofycmqicmqjicbqabsinyr”

HicWqxqwfacysshspcnqczscgacfcwjiid;cwscfp.gyspcwsicnqcy sfecnqcHi
Mgnv fnigbercHiycEsfiasdcofycaqoczskgaagakcnqczscfxfihsprcYwscbfxxspcHi
Mgnv fnigbecfofdcmiqhcwgycybissacfapcnqxpcwghcnwfncwsicpfjkwnsicwfp
ygkaspcmqicmqjicbqabsinycfapcnwfn,cqmcbqjiys,cfbbqipgakcnqcnwscnsihycqm
nwscbqanifbn,cywscywqjxpcisbsg.scnwscyjhcqigkgafxxdcyng jxfnspcmqi,
owsnwsicnwscyqbgsndckf.scnwscmqjicbqabsinycqicaqnrcHicMgnv fnigbe,cowq
pgpcaqncbfnbwcnwsc qgancfncgyyjsc.sidcljgbexd,cysshspcjafzxscnqcisyqx.s
nwscpgmmgbjxndcfapcyfgpcnwfncwscoqjxpczigakcnwschfnnsiczsmqiscnws
BqhhgnnssrcHiycEsfiasd’ycfaksiczskfacnqcmxjnnsicgacwsicbwssecfapcyws
wfpcfxxcywscbqjxpcpqcnqcess cmiqhcfyegak:

“Fapcowqcgycnwsc_Bqhsnnd_c ifd?”

Zjncywsceasocnwfncgncoqjxpcaqnczscxfpdxgescnqcpqcnwfn:cyqcywscofy
ygxsanr

Xgnnxsczqdycosiscysancqjncganqcnwsc igabg fxcynissnycqmcPjzxgacsfixdcqa
MigpfdchqiagakcognwczjapxsycqmcwfapzgxxyrcY sbgfxc jmmycf  sfispcgacfxx
nwscs.sagakc f siy,cishgapgakcnwschjygb-xq.gakc jzxgbcqmcnwscnisfn
owgbwcofycgacynqiscmqicgncqacnwscmqxxqogakcs.sagakrcHiycEsfiasdcofy
yqhsowfncisfyyjisp,czjncywscnwqjkwncosxxcnqcnsxxcwsicwjyzfapc fincqm
wsicyjy gbgqayrcWscxgynsaspcbfismjxxdcfapcyfgpcnwfnc siwf ycgncoqjxpczs
zsnnsicgmcwscosancognwcwsicqacYfnjipfdcagkwnrcYwscfkissprcYwscisy sbnsp
wsicwjyzfapcgacnwscyfhscofdcfycywscisy sbnspcnwscKsasifxc qyncQmmgbs,
fycyqhsnwgakcxfiks,cysbjiscfapcmgtsp;cfapcnwqjkwcywsceasocnwscyhfxx
ajhzsicqmcwgycnfxsanycywscf  isbgfnspcwgycfzynifbnc.fxjscfycfchfxsrcYws
ofyckxfpcnwfncwscwfpcyjkksynspcbqhgakcognwcwsircYwscnwqjkwncwsic xfay
q.sir

NwscagkwncqmcnwsckifapcbqabsincbfhsrcHiycEsfiasd,cognwcwsicwjyzfapcfap
pfjkwnsi,cfiig.spcfncnwscFangsancBqabsincIqqhycnwiss-ljfinsiycqmcfa
wqjiczsmqiscnwscnghscfncowgbwcnwscbqabsincofycnqczskgarcZdcgxxcxjbecgn
ofycfcifgadcs.sagakrcHiycEsfiasdc xfbspcwsicpfjkwnsi’ycbxqnwsycfap
hjygbcgacbwfikscqmcwsicwjyzfapcfapcosancfxxcq.sicnwsczjgxpgakcxqqegak
mqicHicWqxqwfacqicHicMgnv fnigbercYwscbqjxpcmgapcasgnwsircYwscfyespcnws
ynsofipycofycfadchshzsicqmcnwscBqhhgnnsscgacnwscwfxxcfap,cfmnsicfckisfn
psfxcqmcniqjzxs,cfcynsofipcziqjkwncqjncfcxgnnxscoqhfacafhspcHgyycZsgias
nqcowqhcHiycEsfiasdcst xfgaspcnwfncywscofanspcnqcysscqascqmcnws
ysbisnfigsyrcHgyycZsgiascst sbnspcnwshcfadchgajnscfapcfyespcbqjxpcyws
pqcfadnwgakrcHiycEsfiasdcxqqespcysfibwgakxdcfncnwscqxpgywcmfbscowgbw
ofycybisospcganqcfacst isyygqacqmcnijynmjxasyycfapcsanwjygfyhcfap
fayosisp:

“Aq,cnwfaecdqj!”

Nwscxgnnxscoqhfacwq spcnwsdcoqjxpcwf.scfckqqpcwqjysrcYwscxqqespcqjncfn
nwscifgacjangxcnwschsxfabwqxdcqmcnwscosncynissncsmmfbspcfxxcnws
nijynmjxasyycfapcsanwjygfyhcmiqhcwsicnogynspcmsfnjisyrcNwsacywsckf.scf
xgnnxscygkwcfapcyfgp:

“Fw,cosxx!cOscpgpcqjiczsyn,cnwscpsficeaqoyr”

HiycEsfiasdcwfpcnqckqczfbecnqcnwscpisyygak-iqqhr

Nwsc_fingynsy_cosiscfiig.gakrcNwsczfyycfapcnwscysbqapcnsaqicwfpcfxisfpd
bqhsrcNwsczfyy,cHicPjkkfa,cofycfcyxsapsicdqjakchfacognwcfcybfnnsisp
zxfbechqjynfbwsrcWscofycnwscyqacqmcfcwfxxc qinsicgacfacqmmgbscgacnws
bgndcfap,cfycfczqd,cwscwfpcyjakc iqxqakspczfyycaqnsycgacnwscisyqjapgak
wfxxrcMiqhcnwgycwjhzxscynfnscwscwfpcifgyspcwghysxmcjangxcwscwfpczsbqhs
fcmgiyn-ifnsc_fingyns_rcWscwfpcf  sfispcgackifapcq sifrcQascagkwn,cowsa
facq sifngbc_fingyns_cwfpcmfxxsacgxx,cwscwfpcjapsinfesacnwsc fincqmcnws
egakcgacnwscq sifcqmc_Hfignfaf_cfncnwscLjssa’ycNwsfnisrcWscyfakcwgy
hjygbcognwckisfncmssxgakcfapc.qxjhscfapcofycofihxdcosxbqhspczdcnws
kfxxsid;czjn,cjamqinjafnsxd,cwschfiispcnwsckqqpcgh isyygqaczdcog gak
wgycaqyscgacwgyckxq.spcwfapcqabscqicnogbscqjncqmcnwqjkwnxsyyasyyrcWs
ofycjafyyjhgakcfapcy qescxgnnxsrcWscyfgpc_dqjy_cyqcyqmnxdcnwfncgn
 fyyspcjaaqngbspcfapcwscas.sicpifaecfadnwgakcyniqaksicnwfachgxecmqicwgy
.qgbs’ycyfesrcHicZsxx,cnwscysbqapcnsaqi,cofycfcmfgi-wfgispcxgnnxschfa
owqcbqh snspcs.sidcdsficmqic igvsycfncnwscMsgycBsqgxrcQacwgycmqjinw
nigfxcwscwfpczssacfofipspcfcziqavschspfxrcWscofycstnishsxdcasi.qjycfap
stnishsxdcusfxqjycqmcqnwsicnsaqiycfapcwscbq.sispcwgycasi.qjycusfxqjyd
ognwcfacszjxxgsancmigsapxgasyyrcGncofycwgycwjhqjicnqcwf.sc sq xsceaqo
owfncfacqipsfxcfcbqabsincofycnqcwghrcNwsismqiscowsacwscyfocHicPjkkfacws
osancq.sicnqcwghcfapcfyesp:

“Fiscdqjcgacgncnqq?”

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicPjkkfar

HicZsxxcxfjkwspcfncwgycmsxxqo-yjmmsisi,cwsxpcqjncwgycwfapcfapcyfgp:

“Ywfes!”

HiycEsfiasdc fyyspczdcnwsyscnoqcdqjakchsacfapcosancnqcnwscspkscqmcnws
ybissacnqc.gsocnwscwqjysrcNwscysfnycosisczsgakcmgxxspcj cif gpxdcfapcf
 xsfyfancaqgyscbgibjxfnspcgacnwscfjpgnqigjhrcYwscbfhsczfbecfapcy qescnq
wsicwjyzfapc ig.fnsxdrcNwsgicbqa.siyfngqacofycs.gpsanxdcfzqjncEfnwxssa
mqicnwsdczqnwckxfabspcfncwsicqmnsacfycywscynqqpcbwfnngakcnqcqascqmcwsi
Afngqafxgyncmigsapy,cHgyycWsfxd,cnwscbqanifxnqrcFacjaeaqoacyqxgnfid
oqhfacognwcfc fxscmfbscofxespcnwiqjkwcnwsciqqhrcNwscoqhsacmqxxqospcognw
essacsdsycnwscmfpspczxjscpisyycowgbwcofycynisnbwspcj qacfchsfkisczqpdr
YqhsqascyfgpcnwfncywscofycHfpfhcKxdaa,cnwscyq ifaqr

“Gcoqapsicowsiscpgpcnwsdcpgkcwsicj ,”cyfgpcEfnwxssacnqcHgyycWsfxdrc“G’h
yjiscGcas.sicwsfipcqmcwsir”

HgyycWsfxdcwfpcnqcyhgxsrcHicWqxqwfacxgh spcganqcnwscpisyygak-iqqhcfn
nwfnchqhsancfapcnwscnoqcdqjakcxfpgsycfyespcwghcowqcofycnwscjaeaqoa
oqhfarcHicWqxqwfacyfgpcnwfncywscofycHfpfhcKxdaacmiqhcXqapqarcHfpfh
Kxdaacnqqecwsicynfapcgacfcbqiasicqmcnwsciqqh,cwqxpgakcfciqxxcqmchjygb
yngmmxdczsmqiscwsicfapcmiqhcnghscnqcnghscbwfakgakcnwscpgisbngqacqmcwsi
ynfinxspckfvsrcNwscywfpqocnqqecwsicmfpspcpisyycganqcywsxnsiczjncmsxx
is.saksmjxxdcganqcnwscxgnnxscbj czswgapcwsicbqxxfi-zqasrcNwscaqgyscqm
nwscwfxxczsbfhschqiscfjpgzxsrcNwscmgiyncnsaqicfapcnwsczfignqascfiig.sp
nqksnwsircNwsdcosisczqnwcosxxcpisyysp,cynqjncfapcbqh xfbsancfapcnwsd
ziqjkwncfczisfnwcqmcq jxsabscfhqakcnwscbqh fadr

HiycEsfiasdcziqjkwncwsicpfjkwnsicq.sicnqcnwsh,cfapcnfxespcnqcnwsh
fhgfzxdrcYwscofanspcnqczscqackqqpcnsihycognwcnwshczjn,cowgxscywscyniq.s
nqczsc qxgns,cwsicsdsycmqxxqospcHicWqxqwfacgacwgycxgh gakcfapcps.gqjy
bqjiysyrcFycyqqacfycywscbqjxpcywscstbjyspcwsiysxmcfapcosancqjncfmnsi
wghr

“HicWqxqwfa,cGcofancnqcy sfecnqcdqjcmqicfchqhsan,”cywscyfgpr

Nwsdcosancpqoacnqcfcpgybissnc fincqmcnwscbqiigpqircHiycEsfiasdcfyesp
wghcowsacofycwsicpfjkwnsickqgakcnqczsc fgprcHicWqxqwfacyfgpcnwfncHi
Mgnv fnigbecwfpcbwfikscqmcnwfnrcHiycEsfiasdcyfgpcnwfncywscpgpa’nceaqo
fadnwgakcfzqjncHicMgnv fnigbercWsicpfjkwnsicwfpcygkaspcfcbqanifbncmqi
sgkwnckjgasfycfapcywscoqjxpcwf.scnqczsc fgprcHicWqxqwfacyfgpcnwfncgn
ofya’ncwgyczjygasyyr

“Owdcgya’ncgncdqjiczjygasyy?”cfyespcHiycEsfiasdrc“Pgpa’ncdqjcdqjiysxm
zigakcwsicnwscbqanifbn?cFadofd,cgmcgn’ycaqncdqjiczjygasyycgn’ychd
zjygasyycfapcGchsfacnqcysscnqcgnr”

“Dqj’pczsnnsicy sfecnqcHicMgnv fnigbe,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfacpgynfanxdr

“Gcpqa’nceaqocfadnwgakcfzqjncHicMgnv fnigbe,”cis sfnspcHiycEsfiasdrc“G
wf.schdcbqanifbn,cfapcGcgansapcnqcysscnwfncgncgycbfiigspcqjnr”

Owsacywscbfhsczfbecnqcnwscpisyygak-iqqhcwsicbwsseycosiscyxgkwnxd
yjmmjysprcNwsciqqhcofycxg.sxdrcNoqchsacgacqjnpqqicpisyycwfpcnfesa
 qyysyygqacqmcnwscmgis xfbscfapcosiscbwfnngakcmfhgxgfixdcognwcHgyy
WsfxdcfapcnwsczfignqasrcNwsdcosiscnwsc_Misshfa_chfacfapcHicQ’Hfppsa
ZjiesrcNwsc_Misshfa_chfacwfpcbqhscgacnqcyfdcnwfncwscbqjxpcaqncofgncmqi
nwscbqabsincfycwscwfpcnqcis qincnwscxsbnjiscowgbwcfacFhsigbfac igsyn
ofyckg.gakcgacnwscHfaygqacWqjysrcWscyfgpcnwsdcosiscnqcxsf.scnwscis qin
mqicwghcfncnwsc_Misshfa_cqmmgbscfapcwscoqjxpcysscnwfncgncosancgarcWs
ofycfckisd-wfgispchfa,cognwcfc xfjygzxsc.qgbscfapcbfismjxchfaasiyrcWs
wsxpcfacstngakjgywspcbgkficgacwgycwfapcfapcnwscfiqhfcqmcbgkficyhqes
mxqfnspcasficwghrcWscwfpcaqncgansapspcnqcynfdcfchqhsanczsbfjyscbqabsiny
fapc_fingynsy_czqispcwghcbqaygpsifzxdczjncwscishfgaspcxsfagakcfkfgayn
nwschfansx gsbsrcHgyycWsfxdcynqqpcgacmiqancqmcwgh,cnfxegakcfap
xfjkwgakrcWscofycqxpcsaqjkwcnqcyjy sbncqascisfyqacmqicwsic qxgnsasyy
zjncdqjakcsaqjkwcgacy gigncnqcnjiacnwschqhsancnqcfbbqjanrcNwscofihnw,
mifkifabscfapcbqxqjicqmcwsiczqpdcf  sfxspcnqcwgycysaysyrcWscofy
 xsfyfanxdcbqaybgqjycnwfncnwsczqyqhcowgbwcwscyfocigyscfapcmfxxcyxqoxd
zsasfnwcwghciqyscfapcmsxxcfncnwfnchqhsancmqicwgh,cnwfncnwscxfjkwnsicfap
mifkifabscfapcogxmjxckxfabsycosiscwgycnigzjnsrcOwsacwscbqjxpcynfdcaq
xqaksicwscnqqecxsf.scqmcwsiciskisnmjxxdr

“Q’HfppsacZjiescogxxcoignscnwscaqngbs,”cwscst xfgaspcnqcHicWqxqwfa,
“fapcG’xxcysscgncgar”

“Nwfaecdqjc.sidchjbw,cHicWsapigbe,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfa,c“dqj’xxcysscgncga,
GceaqorcAqo,coqa’ncdqjcwf.scfcxgnnxscyqhsnwgakczsmqiscdqjckq?”

“Gcpqa’nchgap,”cyfgpcHicWsapigber

Nwscnoqchsacosancfxqakcyqhscnqinjqjyc fyyfksycfapcj cfcpfiecynfgibfys
fapcbfhscnqcfcysbxjpspciqqhcowsiscqascqmcnwscynsofipycofycjabqiegak
zqnnxsycmqicfcmsocksanxshsarcQascqmcnwsyscksanxshsacofycHicQ’Hfppsa
Zjies,cowqcwfpcmqjapcqjncnwsciqqhczdcgayngabnrcWscofycfcyjf.s,csxpsixd
hfacowqczfxfabspcwgycgh qygakczqpd,cowsacfncisyn,cj qacfcxfikscygxe
jhzisxxfrcWgychfkagxqljsancosynsiacafhscofycnwschqifxcjhzisxxfcj qa
owgbwcwsczfxfabspcnwscmgasc iqzxshcqmcwgycmgafabsyrcWscofycogpsxd
isy sbnspr

OwgxscHicWqxqwfacofycsansinfgagakcnwsc_Misshfa_chfacHiycEsfiasdcofy
y sfegakcyqcfaghfnspxdcnqcwsicwjyzfapcnwfncwscwfpcnqcfyecwsicnqcxqosi
wsic.qgbsrcNwscbqa.siyfngqacqmcnwscqnwsiycgacnwscpisyygak-iqqhcwfp
zsbqhscynifgasprcHicZsxx,cnwscmgiyncgnsh,cynqqpcisfpdcognwcwgychjygb
zjncnwscfbbqh fagynchfpscaqcygkarcS.gpsanxdcyqhsnwgakcofycoiqakrcHi
Esfiasdcxqqespcynifgkwnczsmqiscwgh,cyniqegakcwgyczsfip,cowgxscHiy
Esfiasdcy qescganqcEfnwxssa’ycsficognwcyjzpjspcsh wfygyrcMiqhcnwscwfxx
bfhscyqjapycqmcsabqjifkshsan,cbxf  gakcfapcynfh gakcqmcmssnrcNwscmgiyn
nsaqicfapcnwsczfignqascfapcHgyycWsfxdcynqqpcnqksnwsi,cofgngak
nifaljgxxd,czjncHicZsxx’ycasi.sycosisckisfnxdcfkgnfnspczsbfjyscwscofy
fmifgpcnwscfjpgsabscoqjxpcnwgaecnwfncwscwfpcbqhscxfnsr

HicWqxqwfacfapcHicQ’HfppsacZjiescbfhscganqcnwsciqqhrcGacfchqhsancHi
Wqxqwfac sibsg.spcnwscwjywrcWscosancq.sicnqcHiycEsfiasdcfapcy qescognw
wsicsfiasynxdrcOwgxscnwsdcosiscy sfegakcnwscaqgyscgacnwscwfxxckiso
xqjpsircHicWqxqwfaczsbfhsc.sidcispcfapcstbgnsprcWscy qesc.qxjzxd,czjn
HiycEsfiasdcyfgpcbjinxdcfncgansi.fxy:

“Ywscoqa’nckqcqarcYwschjyncksncwsicsgkwnckjgasfyr”

HicWqxqwfac qganspcpsy sifnsxdcnqofipycnwscwfxxcowsiscnwscfjpgsabscofy
bxf  gakcfapcynfh gakrcWscf  sfxspcnqcHicEsfiasdcfapcnqcEfnwxssarcZjn
HicEsfiasdcbqangajspcnqcyniqescwgyczsfipcfapcEfnwxssacxqqespcpqoa,
hq.gakcnwsc qgancqmcwsicasocywqs:cgncofycaqncwsicmfjxnrcHiycEsfiasd
is sfnsp:

“Ywscoqa’nckqcqacognwqjncwsichqasdr”

FmnsicfcyogmncynijkkxscqmcnqakjsycHicWqxqwfacwqzzxspcqjncgacwfynsrcNws
iqqhcofycygxsanrcOwsacnwscynifgacqmcnwscygxsabscwfpczsbqhscyqhsowfn
 fgamjxcHgyycWsfxdcyfgpcnqcnwsczfignqas:

“Wf.scdqjcyssacHiyc fncBfh zsxxcnwgycosse?”

Nwsczfignqascwfpcaqncyssacwsiczjncwscwfpczssacnqxpcnwfncywscofyc.sid
mgasrcNwscbqa.siyfngqacosancaqcmjinwsircNwscmgiyncnsaqiczsancwgycwsfp
fapczskfacnqcbqjancnwscxgaeycqmcnwsckqxpcbwfgacowgbwcofycstnsapsp
fbiqyycwgycofgyn,cyhgxgakcfapcwjhhgakcifapqhcaqnsycnqcqzysi.scnws
smmsbncqacnwscmiqanfxcygajyrcMiqhcnghscnqcnghscs.sidqasckxfabspcfncHiy
Esfiasdr

NwscaqgyscgacnwscfjpgnqigjhcwfpcigysacnqcfcbxfhqjicowsacHicMgnv fnigbe
zjiyncganqcnwsciqqh,cmqxxqospczdcHicWqxqwfa,cowqcofyc fangakrcNws
bxf  gakcfapcynfh gakcgacnwscwfxxcosisc jabnjfnspczdcowgynxgakrcHi
Mgnv fnigbecwsxpcfcmsoczfaeaqnsycgacwgycwfaprcWscbqjanspcqjncmqjicganq
HiycEsfiasd’ycwfapcfapcyfgpcywscoqjxpcksncnwscqnwsicwfxmcfncnws
gansi.fxrcHiycEsfiasdcyfgp:

“Nwgycgycmqjicywgxxgakycywqinr”

ZjncEfnwxssackfnwsispcgacwsicyegincfapcyfgp:c_“Aqo,cHicZsxx,”_cnqcnws
mgiyncgnsh,cowqcofycywfegakcxgescfacfy sarcNwscygaksicfapcnws
fbbqh fagyncosancqjncnqksnwsircNwscaqgyscgacwfxxcpgspcfofdrcNwsiscofycf
 fjyscqmcfcmsocysbqapy:cfapcnwsacnwsc gfaqcofycwsfipr

Nwscmgiync fincqmcnwscbqabsincofyc.sidcyjbbsyymjxcstbs ncmqicHfpfh
Kxdaa’ycgnshrcNwsc qqicxfpdcyfakc_Egxxfiasd_cgacfczqpgxsyyckfy gak
.qgbs,cognwcfxxcnwscqxp-mfywgqaspchfaasigyhycqmcganqafngqacfap
 iqajabgfngqacowgbwcywsczsxgs.spcxsancsxskfabscnqcwsicygakgakrcYws
xqqespcfycgmcywscwfpczssacisyjiisbnspcmiqhcfacqxpcynfks-ofipiqzscfap
nwscbwsf sic finycqmcnwscwfxxchfpscmjacqmcwsicwgkwcofgxgakcaqnsyrcNws
mgiyncnsaqicfapcnwscbqanifxnq,cwqos.si,cziqjkwncpqoacnwscwqjysr
Efnwxssac xfdspcfcysxsbngqacqmcGigywcfgiycowgbwcofycksasiqjyxd
f  xfjpsprcNwscmgiync fincbxqyspcognwcfcyngiigakc fnigqngbcisbgnfngqa
psxg.sispczdcfcdqjakcxfpdcowqcfiifakspcfhfnsjicnwsfnigbfxyrcGncofy
psysi.spxdcf  xfjpsp;cfap,cowsacgncofycsapsp,cnwschsacosancqjncmqicnws
gansi.fx,cbqansanr

Fxxcnwgycnghscnwscpisyygak-iqqhcofycfcwg.scqmcstbgnshsanrcGacqascbqiasi
osiscHicWqxqwfa,cHicMgnv fnigbe,cHgyycZsgias,cnoqcqmcnwscynsofipy,cnws
zfignqas,cnwsczfyy,cfapcHicQ’HfppsacZjiesrcHicQ’HfppsacZjiescyfgpcgn
ofycnwschqyncybfapfxqjycstwgzgngqacwscwfpcs.sicognasyysprcHgyycEfnwxssa
Esfiasd’ychjygbfxcbfissicofycsapspcgacPjzxgacfmnsicnwfn,cwscyfgprcNws
zfignqascofycfyespcowfncpgpcwscnwgaecqmcHiycEsfiasd’ycbqapjbnrcWscpgp
aqncxgescnqcyfdcfadnwgakrcWscwfpczssac fgpcwgychqasdcfapcogywspcnqczs
fnc sfbscognwchsarcWqos.si,cwscyfgpcnwfncHiycEsfiasdchgkwncwf.scnfesa
nwsc_fingynsy_cganqcbqaygpsifngqarcNwscynsofipycfapcnwscysbisnfigsy
pszfnspcwqnxdcfycnqcowfncywqjxpczscpqascowsacnwscgansi.fxcbfhsr

“GcfkisscognwcHgyycZsgias,”cyfgpcHicQ’HfppsacZjiesrc“ fdcwsicaqnwgakr”

GacfaqnwsicbqiasicqmcnwsciqqhcosiscHiycEsfiasdcfapcwsicwjyzfap,cHi
Zsxx,cHgyycWsfxdcfapcnwscdqjakcxfpdcowqcwfpcnqcisbgnscnwsc fnigqngb
 gsbsrcHiycEsfiasdcyfgpcnwfncnwscBqhhgnnsscwfpcnisfnspcwsi
ybfapfxqjyxdrcYwscwfpcy fispcasgnwsicniqjzxscaqicst sayscfapcnwgycofy
wqocywscofycis fgpr

Nwsdcnwqjkwncnwsdcwfpcqaxdcfckgixcnqcpsfxcognwcfapcnwfn,cnwsismqis,
nwsdcbqjxpcigpsciqjkwywqpcq.sicwsircZjncywscoqjxpcywqocnwshcnwsgi
hgynfesrcNwsdcoqjxpa’ncwf.scpfispcnqcwf.scnisfnspcwsicxgescnwfncgmcyws
wfpczssacfchfarcZjncywscoqjxpcysscnwfncwsicpfjkwnsickqncwsicigkwny:cyws
oqjxpa’nczscmqqxsprcGmcnwsdcpgpa’nc fdcwsicnqcnwscxfyncmfinwgakcyws
oqjxpchfescPjzxgacigakrcQmcbqjiyscywscofycyqiidcmqicnwscyfescqmcnws
_fingynsy_rcZjncowfncsxyscbqjxpcywscpq?cYwscf  sfxspcnqcnwscysbqap
nsaqicowqcyfgpcwscnwqjkwncywscwfpcaqnczssacosxxcnisfnsprcNwsacyws
f  sfxspcnqcHgyycWsfxdrcHgyycWsfxdcofanspcnqcuqgacnwscqnwsickiqj czjn
ywscpgpcaqncxgescnqcpqcyqczsbfjyscywscofycfckisfncmigsapcqmcEfnwxssa’y
fapcnwscEsfiasdycwfpcqmnsacga.gnspcwsicnqcnwsgicwqjysr

Fycyqqacfycnwscmgiync fincofycsapspcHicMgnv fnigbecfapcHicWqxqwfacosan
q.sicnqcHiycEsfiasdcfapcnqxpcwsicnwfncnwscqnwsicmqjickjgasfycoqjxpczs
 fgpcfmnsicnwscBqhhgnnsschssngakcqacnwscmqxxqogakcNjsypfdcfapcnwfn,cga
bfyscwsicpfjkwnsicpgpcaqnc xfdcmqicnwscysbqapc fin,cnwscBqhhgnnsscoqjxp
bqaygpsicnwscbqanifbncziqesacfapcoqjxpc fdcaqnwgakr

“Gcwf.sa’ncyssacfadcBqhhgnnss,”cyfgpcHiycEsfiasdcfakigxdrc“Hdcpfjkwnsi
wfycwsicbqanifbnrcYwscogxxcksncmqjic qjapycsgkwncganqcwsicwfapcqicf
mqqncywscoqa’nc jncqacnwfnc xfnmqihr”

“G’hcyji igyspcfncdqj,cHiycEsfiasd,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfarc“Gcas.sicnwqjkwn
dqjcoqjxpcnisfncjycnwgycofdr”

“Fapcowfncofdcpgpcdqjcnisfnchs?”cfyespcHiycEsfiasdr

Wsicmfbscofycgajapfnspcognwcfacfakidcbqxqjicfapcywscxqqespcfycgmcyws
oqjxpcfnnfbecyqhsqascognwcwsicwfapyr

“G’hcfyegakcmqichdcigkwnyr”cywscyfgpr

“Dqjchgkwncwf.scyqhscysayscqmcpsbsabd,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfar

“HgkwncG,cgapssp?rrrcFapcowsacGcfyecowsachdcpfjkwnsicgyckqgakcnqczs
 fgpcGcbfa’ncksncfcbg.gxcfayosir”

Ywscnqyyspcwsicwsfpcfapcfyyjhspcfcwfjkwndc.qgbs:

“Dqjchjyncy sfecnqcnwscysbisnfidrcGn’ycaqnchdczjygasyyrcG’hcfckisfn
msxxqocmqx-nws-pgppxs-G-pqr”

“Gcnwqjkwncdqjcosiscfcxfpd,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfa,cofxegakcfofdcmiqhcwsi
fzij nxdr

FmnsicnwfncHiycEsfiasd’ycbqapjbncofycbqapshaspcqacfxxcwfapy:cs.sidqas
f  iq.spcqmcowfncnwscBqhhgnnsscwfpcpqasrcYwscynqqpcfncnwscpqqi,cwfkkfip
ognwcifks,cfikjgakcognwcwsicwjyzfapcfapcpfjkwnsi,cksyngbjxfngakcognw
nwshrcYwscofgnspcjangxcgncofycnghscmqicnwscysbqapc fincnqczskgacgacnws
wq scnwfncnwscysbisnfigsycoqjxpcf  iqfbwcwsircZjncHgyycWsfxdcwfpcegapxd
bqaysanspcnqc xfdcqascqicnoqcfbbqh faghsanyrcHiycEsfiasdcwfpcnqcynfap
fygpscnqcfxxqocnwsczfignqascfapcwgycfbbqh fagyncnqc fyycj cnqcnws
 xfnmqihrcYwscynqqpcyngxxcmqicfacgaynfancxgescfacfakidcynqascghfkscfap,
owsacnwscmgiyncaqnsycqmcnwscyqakcynijbecwsicsfi,cywscbfjkwncj cwsi
pfjkwnsi’ycbxqfecfapcyfgpcnqcwsicwjyzfap:

“Ksncfcbfz!”

WscosancqjncfncqabsrcHiycEsfiasdcoif  spcnwscbxqfeciqjapcwsicpfjkwnsi
fapcmqxxqospcwghrcFycywsc fyyspcnwiqjkwcnwscpqqiofdcywscynq  spcfap
kxfispcganqcHicWqxqwfa’ycmfbsr

“G’hcaqncpqascognwcdqjcdsn,”cywscyfgpr

“ZjncG’hcpqascognwcdqj,”cyfgpcHicWqxqwfar

EfnwxssacmqxxqospcwsichqnwsichssexdrcHicWqxqwfaczskfacnqc fbscj cfap
pqoacnwsciqqh,cgacqipsicnqcbqqxcwghysxmcmqicwscmsxncwgycyegacqacmgisr

“Nwfn’ycfcagbscxfpd!”cwscyfgprc“Q,cyws’ycfcagbscxfpd!”

“Dqjcpgpcnwsc iq sicnwgak,cWqxqwfa,”cyfgpcHicQ’HfppsacZjies,c qgysp
j qacwgycjhzisxxfcgacf  iq.fxr



KIFBS

Noqcksanxshsacowqcosiscgacnwscxf.fnqidcfncnwscnghscnigspcnqcxgmncwgh
j :czjncwscofycljgnscwsx xsyyrcWscxfdcbjixspcj cfncnwscmqqncqmcnws
ynfgiycpqoacowgbwcwscwfpcmfxxsarcNwsdcyjbbsspspcgacnjiagakcwghcq.sir
Wgycwfncwfpciqxxspcfcmsocdfipycfofdcfapcwgycbxqnwsycosiscyhsfispcognw
nwscmgxnwcfapcqqvscqmcnwscmxqqicqacowgbwcwscwfpcxfga,cmfbscpqoaofipyr
WgycsdsycosiscbxqyspcfapcwsczisfnwspcognwcfckijangakcaqgysrcFcnwga
ynisfhcqmczxqqpcnigbexspcmiqhcnwscbqiasicqmcwgychqjnwr

Nwsyscnoqcksanxshsacfapcqascqmcnwscbjifnsycbfiigspcwghcj cnwscynfgiy
fapcxfgpcwghcpqoacfkfgacqacnwscmxqqicqmcnwsczfircGacnoqchgajnsycwscofy
yjiiqjapspczdcfcigakcqmchsarcNwschfafksicqmcnwsczficfyespcs.sidqascowq
wscofycfapcowqcofycognwcwghrcAqcqasceasocowqcwscofyczjncqascqmcnws
bjifnsycyfgpcwscwfpcysi.spcnwscksanxshfacognwcfcyhfxxcijhr

“Ofycwsczdcwghysxm?”cfyespcnwschfafksir

“Aq,cygircNwsiscofycnoqcksanxshsacognwcwghr”

“Fapcowsiscfiscnwsd?”

Aqcqasceaso;cfc.qgbscyfgp:

“Kg.scwghcfgircWs’ycmfganspr”

NwscigakcqmcqaxqqesiycpgynsapspcfapcbxqyspcfkfgacsxfyngbfxxdrcFcpfie
hspfxcqmczxqqpcwfpcmqihspcgnysxmcasficnwschfa’ycwsfpcqacnwscnsyysxxfnsp
mxqqircNwschfafksi,cfxfihspczdcnwsckisdc fxxqicqmcnwschfa’ycmfbs,cysan
mqicfc qxgbshfar

WgycbqxxficofycjamfynsaspcfapcwgycasbengscjapqasrcWscq saspcwgycsdsy
mqicfacgaynfan,cygkwspcfapcbxqyspcnwshcfkfgarcQascqmcksanxshsacowqcwfp
bfiigspcwghcj ynfgiycwsxpcfcpgakspcygxecwfncgacwgycwfaprcNwschfafksi
fyespcis sfnspxdcpgpcaqcqasceaqocowqcnwscgaujispchfacofycqicowsiscwfp
wgycmigsapyckqasrcNwscpqqicqmcnwsczficq saspcfapcfacghhsayscbqaynfzxs
sansisprcFcbiqopcowgbwcwfpcmqxxqospcwghcpqoacnwscxfasofdcbqxxsbnsp
qjnygpscnwscpqqi,cynijkkxgakcnqcxqqecgacnwiqjkwcnwsckxfyyc fasxyr

NwschfafksicfncqabsczskfacnqcafiifnscowfncwsceasorcNwscbqaynfzxs,cf
dqjakchfacognwcnwgbecghhqzgxscmsfnjisy,cxgynsasprcWschq.spcwgycwsfp
yxqoxdcnqcigkwncfapcxsmncfapcmiqhcnwschfafksicnqcnwsc siyqacqacnws
mxqqi,cfycgmcwscmsfispcnqczscnwsc.gbnghcqmcyqhscpsxjygqarcNwsacwscpiso
qmmcwgyckxq.s,c iqpjbspcfcyhfxxczqqecmiqhcwgycofgyn,cxgbespcnwscxsfpcqm
wgyc sabgxcfapchfpscisfpdcnqcgapgnsrcWscfyespcgacfcyjy gbgqjy
 iq.gabgfxcfbbsan:

“Owqcgycnwschfa?cOwfn’ycwgycafhscfapcfppisyy?”

Fcdqjakchfacgacfcbdbxgak-yjgncbxsfispcwgycofdcnwiqjkwcnwscigakcqm
zdynfapsiyrcWsceasxncpqoac iqh nxdczsygpscnwscgaujispchfacfapcbfxxsp
mqicofnsircNwscbqaynfzxsceasxncpqoacfxyqcnqcwsx rcNwscdqjakchfacofywsp
nwsczxqqpcmiqhcnwscgaujispchfa’ychqjnwcfapcnwsacbfxxspcmqicyqhsczifapdr
Nwscbqaynfzxscis sfnspcnwscqipsicgacfacfjnwqignfng.sc.qgbscjangxcf
bjifnscbfhscijaagakcognwcnwsckxfyyrcNwsczifapdcofycmqibspcpqoacnws
hfa’ycnwiqfnrcGacfcmsocysbqapycwscq saspcwgycsdsycfapcxqqespcfzqjncwghr
Wscxqqespcfncnwscbgibxscqmcmfbsycfapcnwsa,cjapsiynfapgak,cyniq.scnq
igyscnqcwgycmssnr

“Dqj’iscfxxcigkwncaqo?”cfyespcnwscdqjakchfacgacnwscbdbxgak-yjgnr

“Ywf,c’ycaqnwgak,”cyfgpcnwscgaujispchfa,cnidgakcnqcynfapcj r

Wscofycwsx spcnqcwgycmssnrcNwschfafksicyfgpcyqhsnwgakcfzqjncfcwqy gnfx
fapcyqhscqmcnwsczdynfapsiyckf.scfp.gbsrcNwsczfnnsispcygxecwfncofy
 xfbspcqacnwschfa’ycwsfprcNwscbqaynfzxscfyesp:

“Owsiscpqcdqjcxg.s?”

Nwschfa,cognwqjncfayosigak,czskfacnqcnogixcnwscsapycqmcwgychqjynfbwsr
WschfpscxgkwncqmcwgycfbbgpsanrcGncofycaqnwgak,cwscyfgp:cqaxdcfcxgnnxs
fbbgpsanrcWscy qesc.sidcnwgbexdr

“Owsiscpqcdqjcxg.s?”cis sfnspcnwscbqaynfzxsr

NwschfacyfgpcnwsdcosiscnqcksncfcbfzcmqicwghrcOwgxscnwsc qgancofyczsgak
pszfnspcfcnfxxcfkgxscksanxshfacqmcmfgicbqh xstgqa,cosfigakcfcxqak
dsxxqocjxynsi,cbfhscmiqhcnwscmficsapcqmcnwsczfircYssgakcnwscy sbnfbxs,
wscbfxxspcqjn:

“Wfxxq,cNqh,cqxpchfa!cOwfn’ycnwscniqjzxs?”

“Ywf,c’ycaqnwgak,”cyfgpcnwschfar

Nwscaso-bqhsicyji.sdspcnwscps xqifzxscmgkjisczsmqiscwghcfapcnwsacnjiasp
nqcnwscbqaynfzxs,cyfdgak:

“Gn’ycfxxcigkwn,cbqaynfzxsrcG’xxcysscwghcwqhsr”

Nwscbqaynfzxscnqjbwspcwgycwsxhsncfapcfayosisp:

“Fxxcigkwn,cHic qosi!”

“Bqhscaqo,cNqh,”cyfgpcHic qosi,cnfegakcwgycmigsapczdcnwscfihrc“Aqczqasy
ziqesarcOwfn?cBfacdqjcofxe?”

Nwscdqjakchfacgacnwscbdbxgak-yjgncnqqecnwschfaczdcnwscqnwsicfihcfapcnws
biqopcpg.gpspr

“Wqocpgpcdqjcksncdqjiysxmcganqcnwgychsyy?”cfyespcHic qosir

“Nwscksanxshfacmsxxcpqoacnwscynfgiy,”cyfgpcnwscdqjakchfar

“G’c’sidc’jbwcq’xgkspcnqcdqj,cygi,”cyfgpcnwscgaujispchfar

“Aqncfncfxxr”

“’fancoscwf.scfcxgnnxsrrr?”

“AqncaqorcAqncaqor”

Nwscnwisschsacxsmncnwsczficfapcnwscbiqopcygmnspcnwiqjkwcnwscpqqiycganq
nwscxfasofdrcNwschfafksicziqjkwncnwscbqaynfzxscnqcnwscynfgiycnqcgay sbn
nwscybsascqmcnwscfbbgpsanrcNwsdcfkisspcnwfncnwscksanxshfachjyncwf.s
hgyyspcwgycmqqngakrcNwscbjynqhsiycisnjiaspcnqcnwscbqjansicfapcfcbjifns
ysncfzqjncishq.gakcnwscnifbsycqmczxqqpcmiqhcnwscmxqqir

OwsacnwsdcbfhscqjncganqcKifmnqacYnissn,cHic qosicowgynxspcmqicfa
qjnygpsircNwscgaujispchfacyfgpcfkfgacfycosxxcfycwscbqjxp:

“G’c’sidc’jbwcq’xgkspcnqcdqj,cygircGcwq scos’xxc’ssncfkfgarc’dcaf’scgy
Esiafar”

Nwscywqbecfapcnwscgabg gsanc fgacwfpc finxdcyqzsispcwghr

“Pqa’nchsangqacgn,”cyfgpcnwscdqjakchfar

NwsdcywqqecwfapyrcHicEsiafacofycwqgynspcqacnqcnwscbficfap,cowgxscHi
 qosicofyckg.gakcpgisbngqaycnqcnwscbfihfa,cwscst isyyspcwgyckifngnjps
nqcnwscdqjakchfacfapciskisnnspcnwfncnwsdcbqjxpcaqncwf.scfcxgnnxscpigae
nqksnwsir

“Faqnwsicnghs,”cyfgpcnwscdqjakchfar

Nwscbficpiq.scqmmcnqofipycOsynhqisxfapcYnissnrcFycgnc fyyspcZfxxfyn
Qmmgbscnwscbxqbecywqospcwfxm- fyncagasrcFcessacsfyncogapcwgncnwsh,
zxqogakcmiqhcnwschqjnwcqmcnwscig.sircHicEsiafacofycwjppxspcnqksnwsi
ognwcbqxprcWgycmigsapcfyespcwghcnqcnsxxcwqocnwscfbbgpsancwfpcwf  saspr

“Gc’fa’n,c’fa,”cwscfayosisp,c“’dc’qakjscgycwjinr”

“Ywqor”

Nwscqnwsicxsfaspcq.sicnwscosxxcqmcnwscbficfapc ssispcganqcHicEsiafa’y
hqjnwczjncwscbqjxpcaqncyssrcWscynijbecfchfnbwcfap,cywsxnsigakcgncgacnws
ywsxxcqmcwgycwfapy,c ssispcfkfgacganqcnwschqjnwcowgbwcHicEsiafacq sasp
qzspgsanxdrcNwscyofdgakchq.shsancqmcnwscbficziqjkwncnwschfnbwcnqcfap
miqhcnwscq saspchqjnwrcNwscxqosicnssnwcfapckjhycosiscbq.sispcognw
bxqnnspczxqqpcfapcfchgajnsc gsbscqmcnwscnqakjscysshspcnqcwf.sczssa
zgnnsacqmmrcNwschfnbwcofyczxqoacqjnr

“Nwfn’ycjkxd,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Ywf,c’ycaqnwgak,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cbxqygakcwgychqjnwcfapc jxxgakcnws
bqxxficqmcwgycmgxnwdcbqfncfbiqyycwgycasber

HicEsiafacofycfcbqhhsibgfxcnif.sxxsicqmcnwscqxpcybwqqxcowgbwczsxgs.sp
gacnwscpgkagndcqmcgnycbfxxgakrcWscwfpcas.siczssacyssacgacnwscbgnd
ognwqjncfcygxecwfncqmcyqhscpsbsabdcfapcfc fgicqmckfgnsiyrcZdckifbscqm
nwsyscnoqcfingbxsycqmcbxqnwgak,cwscyfgp,cfchfacbqjxpcfxofdyc fyy
hjynsircWscbfiigspcqacnwscnifpgngqacqmcwgycAf qxsqa,cnwsckisfn
Zxfbeowgns,cowqyschshqidcwscs.qespcfncnghsyczdcxsksapcfapchghgbidr
Hqpsiaczjygasyychsnwqpycwfpcy fispcwghcqaxdcyqcmficfycnqcfxxqocwghcf
xgnnxscqmmgbscgacBiqoscYnissncqacnwscogapqoczxgapcqmcowgbwcofycoignnsa
nwscafhscqmcwgycmgihcognwcnwscfppisyy—Xqapqa,cSrBrcQacnwschfansx gsbs
qmcnwgycxgnnxscqmmgbscfcxgnnxscxsfpsaczfnnfxgqacqmcbfagynsiycofycpifoa
j cfapcqacnwscnfzxsczsmqiscnwscogapqocynqqpcmqjicqicmg.scbwgafczqoxy
owgbwcosiscjyjfxxdcwfxmcmjxxcqmcfczxfbecxgljgprcMiqhcnwsysczqoxycHi
EsiafacnfynspcnsfrcWscnqqecfchqjnwmjx,cpisocgncj ,cyfnjifnspcwgyc fxfns
ognwcgncfapcnwsacy fncgncmqinwcganqcnwsckifnsrcNwsacwsc fjyspcnqcujpksr

Hic qosi,cfchjbwcdqjaksichfa,cofycsh xqdspcgacnwscIqdfxcGigyw
BqaynfzjxfidcQmmgbscgacPjzxgacBfynxsrcNwscfibcqmcwgycyqbgfxcigys
gansiysbnspcnwscfibcqmcwgycmigsap’ycpsbxgas,czjncHicEsiafa’ycpsbxgas
ofychgngkfnspczdcnwscmfbncnwfncbsinfgacqmcnwqyscmigsapycowqcwfpceaqoa
wghcfncwgycwgkwsync qgancqmcyjbbsyycyngxxcsynsshspcwghcfycfcbwfifbnsir
Hic qosicofycqascqmcnwsyscmigsapyrcWgycgast xgbfzxscpsznycosiscfczdoqip
gacwgycbgibxs;cwscofycfcpszqafgicdqjakchfar

NwscbficwfxnspczsmqiscfcyhfxxcwqjyscqacnwscKxfyas.gaciqfpcfapcHicEsiafa
ofycwsx spcganqcnwscwqjysrcWgycogmsc jncwghcnqczspcowgxscHic qosicyfn
pqoaynfgiycgacnwscegnbwsacfyegakcnwscbwgxpisacowsiscnwsdcosancnqcybwqqx
fapcowfnczqqecnwsdcosiscgarcNwscbwgxpisa—noqckgixycfapcfczqd,cbqaybgqjy
qmcnwsgicmfnwsi’ycwsx xsyyasyycfapcqmcnwsgichqnwsi’ycfzysabs,czskfa
yqhscwqiys xfdcognwcwghrcWscofycyji igyspcfncnwsgichfaasiycfapcfncnwsgi
fbbsany,cfapcwgycziqockisocnwqjkwnmjxrcFmnsicfcowgxscHiycEsiafacsansisp
nwscegnbwsa,cstbxfghgak:

“Yjbwcfcygkwn!cQ,cws’xxcpqcmqicwghysxmcqascpfdcfapcnwfn’ycnwscwqxdcfxxy
qmcgnrcWs’yczssacpigaegakcygabscMigpfdr”

Hic qosicofycbfismjxcnqcst xfgacnqcwsicnwfncwscofycaqncisy qaygzxs,
nwfncwscwfpcbqhscqacnwscybsasczdcnwschsisyncfbbgpsanrcHiycEsiafa,
ishshzsigakcHic qosi’yckqqpcqmmgbsycpjigakcpqhsyngbcljfiisxy,cfycosxx
fychfadcyhfxx,czjncq  qinjascxqfay,cyfgp:

“Q,cdqjcasspa’ncnsxxchscnwfn,cHic qosircGceaqocdqj’iscfcmigsapcqmcwgy,
aqncxgescyqhscqmcnwscqnwsiycwscpqsyczscognwrcNwsd’iscfxxcigkwncyqcxqak
fycwscwfychqasdcgacwgyc qbesncnqcess cwghcqjncmiqhcwgycogmscfapcmfhgxdr
Agbscmigsapy!cOwqcofycwscognwcnqagkwn,cG’pcxgescnqceaqo?”

Hic qosicywqqecwgycwsfpczjncyfgpcaqnwgakr

“G’hcyqcyqiid,”cywscbqangajsp,c“nwfncG’.scaqnwgakcgacnwscwqjyscnqcqmmsi
dqjrcZjncgmcdqjcofgncfchgajnscG’xxcysapciqjapcnqcMqkfind’ycfncnws
bqiasir”

Hic qosicynqqpcj r

“OscosiscofgngakcmqicwghcnqcbqhscwqhscognwcnwschqasdrcWscas.sicysshycnq
nwgaecwscwfycfcwqhscfncfxxr”

“Q,caqo,cHiycEsiafa,”cyfgpcHic qosi,c“os’xxchfescwghcnjiacq.sicfcaso
xsfmrcG’xxcnfxecnqcHfingarcWs’ycnwschfarcOs’xxcbqhscwsiscqascqmcnwsys
agkwnycfapcnfxecgncq.sir”

YwscyfocwghcnqcnwscpqqircNwscbfihfacofycynfh gakcj cfapcpqoacnws
mqqn fnw,cfapcyogakgakcwgycfihycnqcofihcwghysxmr

“Gn’yc.sidcegapcqmcdqjcnqczigakcwghcwqhs,”cywscyfgpr

“Aqncfncfxx,”cyfgpcHic qosir

Wsckqncj cqacnwscbfircFycgncpiq.scqmmcwscifgyspcwgycwfncnqcwsickfgxdr

“Os’xxchfescfcasochfacqmcwgh,”cwscyfgprc“Kqqp-agkwn,cHiycEsiafar”



HiycEsiafa’yc jvvxspcsdsycofnbwspcnwscbficngxxcgncofycqjncqmcygkwnr
Nwsacywscognwpisocnwsh,cosancganqcnwscwqjyscfapcsh ngspcwsicwjyzfap’y
 qbesnyr

Ywscofycfacfbng.s,c ifbngbfxcoqhfacqmchgppxscfksrcAqncxqakczsmqiscyws
wfpcbsxszifnspcwsicygx.sicosppgakcfapcisasospcwsicganghfbdcognwcwsi
wjyzfapczdcofxnvgakcognwcwghcnqcHic qosi’ycfbbqh faghsanrcGacwsicpfdy
qmcbqjinywg cHicEsiafacwfpcysshspcnqcwsicfcaqncjakfxxfancmgkjis:cfap
ywscyngxxcwjiigspcnqcnwscbwf sxcpqqicowsas.sicfcosppgakcofycis qinsp
fap,cyssgakcnwsczigpfxc fgi,cisbfxxspcognwc.g.gpc xsfyjiscwqocywscwfp
 fyyspcqjncqmcnwscYnficqmcnwscYsfcBwjibwcgacYfapdhqjan,cxsfagakcqacnws
fihcqmcfcuq.gfxcosxx-mspchfa,cowqcofycpisyyspcyhfinxdcgacfcmiqbe-bqfn
fapcxf.sapsicniqjysiycfapcbfiigspcfcygxecwfnckifbsmjxxdczfxfabspcj qa
wgycqnwsicfihrcFmnsicnwisscosseycywscwfpcmqjapcfcogms’ycxgmscgieyqhs
fap,cxfnsicqa,cowsacywscofyczskgaagakcnqcmgapcgncjazsfifzxs,cywscwfp
zsbqhscfchqnwsircNwsc fincqmchqnwsic isysanspcnqcwsicaqcgayj sifzxs
pgmmgbjxngsycfapcmqicnosand-mg.scdsfiycywscwfpces ncwqjyscywisopxdcmqi
wsicwjyzfaprcWsicnoqcsxpsyncyqaycosiscxfjabwsprcQascofycgacfcpif si’y
ywq cgacKxfykqocfapcnwscqnwsicofycbxsiecnqcfcnsf-hsibwfancgacZsxmfynr
Nwsdcosisckqqpcyqay,coiqnsciskjxfixdcfapcyqhsnghsycysancwqhschqasdrcNws
qnwsicbwgxpisacosiscyngxxcfncybwqqxr

HicEsiafacysancfcxsnnsicnqcwgycqmmgbscastncpfdcfapcishfgaspcgaczsprcYws
hfpsczssm-nsfcmqicwghcfapcybqxpspcwghciqjapxdrcYwscfbbs nspcwgy
misljsancgansh sifabscfyc fincqmcnwscbxghfns,cwsfxspcwghcpjngmjxxd
owsas.sicwscofycygbecfapcfxofdycnigspcnqchfescwghcsfncfczisfemfynr
NwsiscosiscoqiyscwjyzfapyrcWscwfpcas.siczssac.gqxsancygabscnwsczqdycwfp
kiqoacj cfapcywsceasocnwfncwscoqjxpcofxecnqcnwscsapcqmcNwqhfycYnissn
fapczfbecfkfgacnqczqqecs.sacfcyhfxxcqipsir

NoqcagkwnycfmnsicwgycmigsapycbfhscnqcysscwghrcYwscziqjkwncnwshcj cnq
wgyczspiqqh,cnwscfgicqmcowgbwcofycgh iskafnspcognwcfc siyqafxcqpqji,
fapckf.scnwshcbwfgiycfncnwscmgisrcHicEsiafa’ycnqakjs,cnwscqbbfygqafx
yngakgakc fgacqmcowgbwcwfpchfpscwghcyqhsowfncgiignfzxscpjigakcnwscpfd,
zsbfhschqisc qxgnsrcWscyfnc iq  spcj cgacnwsczspczdc gxxqoycfapcnws
xgnnxscbqxqjicgacwgyc jmmdcbwsseychfpscnwshcisyshzxscofihcbgapsiyrcWs
f qxqkgyspcnqcwgyckjsynycmqicnwscpgyqipsicqmcnwsciqqh,czjncfncnwscyfhs
nghscxqqespcfncnwshcfcxgnnxsc iqjpxd,cognwcfc.snsifa’yc igpsr

Wscofycljgnscjabqaybgqjycnwfncwscofycnwsc.gbnghcqmcfc xqncowgbwcwgy
migsapy,cHicBjaagakwfh,cHicH’BqdcfapcHic qosicwfpcpgybxqyspcnqcHiy
Esiafacgacnwsc fixqjircNwscgpsfcwfpczssacHic qosi’yczjncgnycps.sxq hsan
ofycsanijynspcnqcHicBjaagakwfhrcHicEsiafacbfhscqmc iqnsynfancynqbecfap,
nwqjkwcwscwfpczssacbqa.sinspcnqcnwscBfnwqxgbcmfgnwcfncnwscnghscqmcwgy
hfiigfks,cwscwfpcaqnczssacgacnwsc fxscqmcnwscBwjibwcmqicnosandcdsfiyr
Wscofycmqap,chqisq.si,cqmckg.gakcygps-nwijynycfncBfnwqxgbgyhr

HicBjaagakwfhcofycnwsc.sidchfacmqicyjbwcfcbfysrcWscofycfacsxpsi
bqxxsfkjscqmcHic qosircWgycqoacpqhsyngbcxgmscofycaqnc.sidcwf  drc sq xs
wfpckisfncydh fnwdcognwcwghcmqicgncofyceaqoacnwfncwscwfpchfiigspcfa
ja isysanfzxscoqhfacowqcofycfacgabjifzxscpijaefiprcWscwfpcysncj cwqjys
mqicwsicygtcnghsy;cfapcsfbwcnghscywscwfpc foaspcnwscmjiagnjiscqacwghr

S.sidqascwfpcisy sbncmqic qqicHfingacBjaagakwfhrcWscofycfcnwqiqjkwxd
ysaygzxschfa,cgamxjsangfxcfapcgansxxgksanrcWgyczxfpscqmcwjhfa
eaqoxspks,cafnjifxcfynjnsasyyc fingbjxfigyspczdcxqakcfyyqbgfngqacognw
bfysycgacnwsc qxgbscbqjiny,cwfpczssacnsh sispczdczigsmcghhsiygqaycga
nwscofnsiycqmcksasifxc wgxqyq wdrcWscofycosxxcgamqihsprcWgycmigsapy
zqospcnqcwgycq gagqaycfapcbqaygpsispcnwfncwgycmfbscofycxges
Ywfesy sfis’yr

Owsacnwsc xqncwfpczssacpgybxqyspcnqcwsi,cHiycEsiafacwfpcyfgp:

“Gcxsf.scgncfxxcgacdqjicwfapy,cHicBjaagakwfhr”

Fmnsicfcljfinsicqmcfcbsanjidcqmchfiigspcxgms,cywscwfpc.sidcmso
gxxjygqaycxsmnrcIsxgkgqacmqicwsicofycfcwfzgncfapcywscyjy sbnspcnwfncf
hfacqmcwsicwjyzfap’ycfkscoqjxpcaqncbwfaksckisfnxdczsmqiscpsfnwrcYwscofy
nsh nspcnqcysscfcbjigqjycf  iq igfnsasyycgacwgycfbbgpsancfap,czjncnwfn
ywscpgpcaqncogywcnqcysshczxqqpd-hgapsp,cywscoqjxpcwf.scnqxpcnws
ksanxshsacnwfncHicEsiafa’ycnqakjscoqjxpcaqncyjmmsiczdczsgakcywqinsaspr
Wqos.si,cHicBjaagakwfhcofycfcbf fzxschfa;cfapcisxgkgqacofycisxgkgqar
Nwscybwshschgkwncpqckqqpcfap,cfncxsfyn,cgncbqjxpcpqcaqcwfihrcWsi
zsxgsmycosiscaqncstnif.fkfanrcYwsczsxgs.spcynsfpgxdcgacnwscYfbispcWsfin
fycnwschqyncksasifxxdcjysmjxcqmcfxxcBfnwqxgbcps.qngqaycfapcf  iq.spcqm
nwscyfbifhsanyrcWsicmfgnwcofyczqjapspczdcwsicegnbwsaczjn,cgmcywscofy
 jncnqcgn,cywscbqjxpczsxgs.scfxyqcgacnwsczfaywsscfapcgacnwscWqxdcKwqynr

NwscksanxshsaczskfacnqcnfxecqmcnwscfbbgpsanrcHicBjaagakwfhcyfgpcnwfncws
wfpcqabsceaqoacfcyghgxficbfysrcFchfacqmcys.sandcwfpczgnnsacqmmcfc gsbs
qmcwgycnqakjscpjigakcfacs gxs ngbcmgncfapcnwscnqakjscwfpcmgxxspcga
fkfgacyqcnwfncaqcqascbqjxpcysscfcnifbscqmcnwsczgnsr

“Osxx,cG’hcaqncys.sand,”cyfgpcnwscga.fxgpr

“Kqpcmqizgp,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Gncpqsya’nc fgacdqjcaqo?”cfyespcHicH’Bqdr

HicH’Bqdcwfpczssacfncqascnghscfcnsaqicqmcyqhscis jnfngqarcWgycogms,cowq
wfpczssacfcyq ifaq,cyngxxcnfjkwncdqjakcbwgxpisacnqc xfdcnwsc gfaqcfn
xqocnsihyrcWgycxgascqmcxgmscwfpcaqnczssacnwscywqinsyncpgynfabsczsnossa
noqc qganycfapcmqicywqinc sigqpycwscwfpczssacpig.sacnqcxg.sczdcwgy
ognyrcWscwfpczssacfcbxsiecgacnwscHgpxfapcIfgxofd,cfcbfa.fyysicmqi
fp.singyshsanycmqic_NwscGigywcNghsy_cfapcmqic_NwscMisshfa’ycUqjiafx_,cf
nqoacnif.sxxsicmqicfcbqfxcmgihcqacbqhhgyygqa,cfc ig.fnscgaljgidcfksan,
fcbxsiecgacnwscqmmgbscqmcnwscYjz-Ywsigmmcfapcwscwfpcisbsanxdczsbqhs
ysbisnfidcnqcnwscBgndcBqiqasircWgycasocqmmgbschfpscwghc iqmsyygqafxxd
gansisynspcgacHicEsiafa’ycbfysr

“ fga?cAqnchjbw,”cfayosispcHicEsiafarc“Zjncgn’ycyqcygbesagakrcGcmssxcfy
gmcGcofanspcnqcisnbwcqmmr”

“Nwfn’ycnwsczqqys,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhcmgihxdr

“Aq,”cyfgpcHicEsiafarc“GcnwgaecGcbfjkwncfcbqxpcqacnwscbfircNwsis’y
yqhsnwgakcess ycbqhgakcganqchdcnwiqfn,c wxskhcqi——”

“Hjbjyr”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Gncess ycbqhgakcxgescmiqhcpqoacgachdcnwiqfn;cygbesagakcnwgakr”

“Dsy,cdsy,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqd,c“nwfn’ycnwscnwqiftr”

WscxqqespcfncHicBjaagakwfhcfapcHic qosicfncnwscyfhscnghscognwcfacfgicqm
bwfxxsaksrcHicBjaagakwfhcaqppspcwgycwsfpcif gpxdcfapcHic qosicyfgp:

“Fw,cosxx,cfxx’ycosxxcnwfncsapycosxxr”

“G’hc.sidchjbwcqzxgkspcnqcdqj,cqxpchfa,”cyfgpcnwscga.fxgpr

Hic qosicof.spcwgycwfapr

“NwqyscqnwsicnoqcmsxxqoycGcofycognw——”

“Owqcosiscdqjcognw?”cfyespcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Fcbwf rcGcpqa’nceaqocwgycafhsrcPfhacgncaqo,cowfn’ycwgycafhs?cXgnnxs
bwf cognwcyfapdcwfgirrrr”

“Fapcowqcsxys?”

“Wfimqipr”

“Wh,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

OwsacHicBjaagakwfhchfpscnwfncishfie,c sq xscosiscygxsanrcGncofyceaqoa
nwfncnwscy sfesicwfpcysbisncyqjibsycqmcgamqihfngqarcGacnwgycbfyscnws
hqaqydxxfzxscwfpcfchqifxcgansangqarcHicWfimqipcyqhsnghsycmqihspcqascqm
fcxgnnxscpsnfbwhsancowgbwcxsmncnwscbgndcywqinxdcfmnsicaqqacqacYjapfd
ognwcnwsc ji qyscqmcfiig.gakcfycyqqacfyc qyygzxscfncyqhsc jzxgb-wqjys
qacnwscqjnyeginycqmcnwscbgndcowsiscgnychshzsiycpjxdcljfxgmgsp
nwshysx.sycfyc_zqafcmgps_cnif.sxxsiyrcZjncwgycmsxxqo-nif.sxxsiycwfp
as.sicbqaysanspcnqcq.sixqqecwgycqigkgarcWscwfpczskjacxgmscfycfacqzybjis
mgafabgsiczdcxsapgakcyhfxxcyjhycqmchqasdcnqcoqiehsacfncjyjigqjy
gansisynrcXfnsicqacwscwfpczsbqhscnwsc finasicqmcfc.sidcmfncywqin
ksanxshfa,cHicKqxpzsik,cgacnwscXgmmsdcXqfacZfaercNwqjkwcwscwfpcas.si
shzifbspchqiscnwfacnwscUsogywcsnwgbfxcbqpscwgycmsxxqo-Bfnwqxgby,
owsas.sicnwsdcwfpcyhfinspcgac siyqacqiczdc iqtdcjapsicwgycstfbngqay,
y qescqmcwghczgnnsixdcfycfacGigywcUsocfapcfacgxxgnsifnscfapcyfocpg.gas
pgyf  iq.fxcqmcjyjidchfpschfagmsyncnwiqjkwcnwsc siyqacqmcwgycgpgqncyqar
Fncqnwsicnghsycnwsdcishshzsispcwgyckqqpc qganyr

“Gcoqapsicowsiscpgpcwsckqcnq,”cyfgpcHicEsiafar

Wscogywspcnwscpsnfgxycqmcnwscgabgpsancnqcishfgac.fkjsrcWscogywspcwgy
migsapycnqcnwgaecnwsiscwfpczssacyqhschgynfes,cnwfncHicWfimqipcfapcws
wfpchgyyspcsfbwcqnwsircWgycmigsapy,cowqceasocljgnscosxxcHicWfimqip’y
hfaasiycgacpigaegak,cosiscygxsanrcHic qosicyfgpcfkfga:

“Fxx’ycosxxcnwfncsapycosxxr”

HicEsiafacbwfakspcnwscyjzusbncfncqabsr

“Nwfncofycfcpsbsancdqjakcbwf ,cnwfnchspgbfxcmsxxqo,”cwscyfgprc“Qaxdcmqi
wgh——”

“Q,cqaxdcmqicwgh,”cyfgpcHic qosi,c“gnchgkwncwf.sczssacfcbfyscqmcys.sa
pfdy,cognwqjncnwscq ngqacqmcfcmgasr”

“Dsy,cdsy,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cnidgakcnqcishshzsirc“Gcishshzsicaqocnwsis
ofycfc qxgbshfarcPsbsancdqjakcmsxxqo,cwscysshsprcWqocpgpcgncwf  sacfn
fxx?”

“Gncwf  saspcnwfncdqjcosisc sxqqnwsisp,cNqh,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh
kif.sxdr

“Nijsczgxx,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,csljfxxdckif.sxdr

“Gcyj  qyscdqjcyljfispcnwscbqaynfzxs,cUfbe,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

Hic qosicpgpcaqncisxgywcnwscjyscqmcwgycBwigyngfacafhsrcWscofycaqn
ynifgkwn-xfbsp,czjncwscbqjxpcaqncmqiksncnwfncHicH’Bqdcwfpcisbsanxdchfps
fcbijyfpscgacysfibwcqmc.fxgysycfapc qinhfansfjycnqcsafzxscHiycH’Bqdcnq
mjxmgxcghfkgafidcsakfkshsanycgacnwscbqjanidrcHqiscnwfacwscisysanspcnws
mfbncnwfncwscwfpczssac.gbnghgyspcwscisysanspcyjbwcxqoc xfdgakcqmcnws
kfhsrcWscfayosispcnwscljsyngqa,cnwsismqis,cfycgmcHicEsiafacwfpcfyesp
gnr

Nwscafiifng.schfpscHicEsiafacgapgkafanrcWscofycessaxdcbqaybgqjycqmcwgy
bgngvsaywg ,cogywspcnqcxg.scognwcwgycbgndcqacnsihychjnjfxxdcwqaqjifzxs
fapcisysanspcfadcfmmiqanc jncj qacwghczdcnwqyscowqhcwscbfxxspcbqjanid
zjh egayr

“Gycnwgycowfncosc fdcifnsycmqi?”cwscfyesprc“Nqcmsspcfapcbxqnwscnwsys
gkaqifanczqynqqhycrrrcfapcnwsd’iscaqnwgakcsxysr”

HicBjaagakwfhcxfjkwsprcWscofycfcBfynxscqmmgbgfxcqaxdcpjigakcqmmgbs
wqjiyr

“Wqocbqjxpcnwsdczscfadnwgakcsxys,cNqh?”cwscyfgpr

Wscfyyjhspcfcnwgbec iq.gabgfxcfbbsancfapcyfgpcgacfcnqascqmcbqhhfap:

“65,cbfnbwcdqjicbfzzfks!”

S.sidqascxfjkwsprcHicH’Bqd,cowqcofanspcnqcsansicnwscbqa.siyfngqaczdcfad
pqqi,c isnsapspcnwfncwscwfpcas.sicwsfipcnwscynqidrcHicBjaagakwfhcyfgp:

“Gncgycyj  qysp—nwsdcyfd,cdqjceaqo—nqcnfesc xfbscgacnwscps qncowsis
nwsdcksncnwsyscnwjapsigakczgkcbqjanidcmsxxqoy,cqhfpwfjay,cdqjceaqo,cnq
pigxxrcNwscysiksfanchfesycnwshcynfapcgacfciqocfkfgayncnwscofxxcfapcwqxp
j cnwsgic xfnsyr”

Wscgxxjynifnspcnwscynqidczdckiqnsyljscksynjisyr

“Fncpgaasi,cdqjceaqorcNwsacwscwfycfczxqqpdczgkczqoxcqmcbfzzfksczsmqis
wghcqacnwscnfzxscfapcfczxqqpdczgkcy qqacxgescfcywq.sxrcWscnfesycj cf
ofpcqmcbfzzfkscqacnwscy qqacfapc skycgncfbiqyycnwsciqqhcfapcnwsc qqi
ps.gxycwf.scnqcnidcfapcbfnbwcgncqacnwsgic xfnsy:c65,c_bfnbwcdqji
bfzzfks_r”

S.sidqascxfjkwspcfkfga:czjncHicEsiafacofycyqhsowfncgapgkafancyngxxrcWs
nfxespcqmcoigngakcfcxsnnsicnqcnwsc f siyr

“Nwsyscdfwqqycbqhgakcj cwsis,”cwscyfgp,c“nwgaecnwsdcbfaczqyycnws
 sq xsrcGcasspa’ncnsxxcdqj,cHfinga,cowfncegapcqmchsacnwsdcfisr”

HicBjaagakwfhckf.scfcljfxgmgspcfyysanr

“Gn’ycxgescs.sidnwgakcsxyscgacnwgycoqixp,”cwscyfgprc“Dqjcksncyqhsczfp
qasycfapcdqjcksncyqhsckqqpcqasyr”

“Qcdsy,cdqjcksncyqhsckqqpcqasy,cGcfphgn,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cyfngymgspr

“Gn’yczsnnsicnqcwf.scaqnwgakcnqcyfdcnqcnwsh,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdrc“Nwfn’ychd
q gagqa!”

HiycEsiafacsansispcnwsciqqhcfap,c xfbgakcfcnifdcqacnwscnfzxs,cyfgp:

“Wsx cdqjiysx.sy,cksanxshsar”

Hic qosicynqqpcj cnqcqmmgbgfns,cqmmsigakcwsicwgycbwfgircYwscpsbxgasp
gn,cyfdgakcywscofycgiqagakcpqoaynfgiy,cfap,cfmnsicwf.gakcstbwfakspcf
aqpcognwcHicBjaagakwfhczswgapcHic qosi’yczfbe,c is fispcnqcxsf.scnws
iqqhrcWsicwjyzfapcbfxxspcqjncnqcwsi:

“Fapcwf.scdqjcaqnwgakcmqichs,cpjbegs?”

“Q,cdqj!cNwsczfbecqmchdcwfapcnqcdqj!”cyfgpcHiycEsiafacnfinxdr

Wsicwjyzfapcbfxxspcfmnsicwsi:

“Aqnwgakcmqic qqicxgnnxscwjzzd!”

Wscfyyjhspcyjbwcfcbqhgbfxcmfbscfapc.qgbscnwfncnwscpgynigzjngqacqmcnws
zqnnxsycqmcynqjncnqqec xfbscfhgpcksasifxchsiighsanr

Nwscksanxshsacpifaecmiqhcnwsgickxfyysy,cysncnwsckxfyysycfkfgacqacnws
nfzxscfapc fjysprcNwsacHicBjaagakwfhcnjiaspcnqofipycHic qosicfapcyfgp
bfyjfxxd:

“QacNwjiypfdcagkwn,cdqjcyfgp,cUfber”

“Nwjiypfd,cdsy,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Igkwnq!”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhc iqh nxdr

“OscbfachssncgacH’Fjxsd’y,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdrc“Nwfn’xxczscnwschqyn
bqa.sagsanc xfbsr”

“Zjncoschjyna’nczscxfns,”cyfgpcHic qosicsfiasynxd,c“zsbfjyscgncgycyjis
nqczscbifhhspcnqcnwscpqqiyr”

“Oscbfachssncfncwfxm-ys.sa,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Igkwnq!”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Wfxm-ys.sacfncH’Fjxsd’yczscgn!”

NwsiscofycfcywqincygxsabsrcHicEsiafacofgnspcnqcysscowsnwsicwscoqjxpczs
nfesacganqcwgycmigsapy’cbqamgpsabsrcNwsacwscfyesp:

“Owfn’ycgacnwscogap?”

“Q,cgn’ycaqnwgak,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“Gn’ycqaxdcfcxgnnxschfnnsicnwfn
os’iscfiifakgakcfzqjncmqicNwjiypfdr”

“Nwscq sif,cgycgn?”cyfgpcHicEsiafar

“Aq,caq,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhcgacfacs.fyg.scnqas,c“gn’ycujyncfcxgnnxs
rrrcy gignjfxchfnnsir”

“Q,”cyfgpcHicEsiafar

NwsiscofycygxsabscfkfgarcNwsacHic qosicyfgp,c qganczxfae:

“Nqcnsxxcdqjcnwscnijnw,cNqh,cos’isckqgakcnqchfescfcisnisfnr”

“Dsy,cnwfn’ycgn,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“UfbecfapcGcfapcH’Bqdcwsis—os’is
fxxckqgakcnqcofywcnwsc qnr”

Wscjnnsispcnwschsnf wqicognwcfcbsinfgacwqhsxdcsasikdcfap,csabqjifkspczd
wgycqoac.qgbs,c iqbsspsp:

“Dqjcyss,coschfdcfycosxxcfxxcfphgncos’iscfcagbscbqxxsbngqacqm
ybqjapisxy,cqascfapcfxxrcGcyfd,cqascfapcfxx,”cwscfppspcognwckijmm
bwfigndcfapcnjiagakcnqcHic qosirc“Qoacj caqo!”

“Gcqoacj ,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“FapcGcqoacj ,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Yqcos’isckqgakcnqcofywcnwsc qncnqksnwsi,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

FcnwqjkwncysshspcnqcynigescwghrcWscnjiaspcyjppsaxdcnqcnwscga.fxgpcfap
yfgp:

“P’dsceaqocowfn,cNqh,cwfycujyncqbbjiispcnqchs?cDqjchgkwncuqgacgacfap
os’pcwf.scfcmqji-wfapspcissxr”

“Kqqpcgpsf,”cyfgpcHic qosirc“Nwscmqjicqmcjycnqksnwsir”

HicEsiafacofycygxsanrcNwsc iq qyfxcbqa.sdspc.sidcxgnnxschsfagakcnqcwgy
hgapczjn,cjapsiynfapgakcnwfncyqhscy gignjfxcfksabgsycosiscfzqjncnq
bqabsiacnwshysx.sycqacwgyczswfxm,cwscnwqjkwncwscqospcgncnqcwgycpgkagnd
nqcywqocfcyngmmcasbercWscnqqecaqc fincgacnwscbqa.siyfngqacmqicfcxqak
owgxsczjncxgynsasp,cognwcfacfgicqmcbfxhcsahgnd,cowgxscwgycmigsapy
pgybjyyspcnwscUsyjgnyr

“Gcwf.sa’ncyjbwcfczfpcq gagqacqmcnwscUsyjgny,”cwscyfgp,cgansi.sagakcfn
xsaknwrc“Nwsd’iscfacspjbfnspcqipsircGczsxgs.scnwsdchsfacosxxcnqqr”

“Nwsd’iscnwsckifapsyncqipsicgacnwscBwjibw,cNqh,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,
ognwcsanwjygfyhrc“NwscKsasifxcqmcnwscUsyjgnycynfapycastncnqcnwsc q sr”

“Nwsis’ycaqchgynfescfzqjncgn,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqd,c“gmcdqjcofancfcnwgakcosxx
pqascfapcaqcmxgsycfzqjncgncdqjckqcnqcfcUsyjgnrcNwsd’iscnwsczqdqycwf.s
gamxjsabsrcG’xxcnsxxcdqjcfcbfyscgac qganrrrr”

“NwscUsyjgnycfiscfcmgasczqpdcqmchsa,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Gn’ycfcbjigqjycnwgak,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“fzqjncnwscUsyjgncQipsir
S.sidcqnwsicqipsicqmcnwscBwjibwcwfpcnqczscismqihspcfncyqhscnghscqi
qnwsiczjncnwscUsyjgncQipsicofycas.sicqabscismqihsprcGncas.sicmsxx
fofdr”

“Gycnwfncyq?”cfyespcHicH’Bqdr

“Nwfn’ycfcmfbn,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“Nwfn’ycwgynqidr”

“Xqqecfncnwsgicbwjibw,cnqq,”cyfgpcHic qosirc“Xqqecfncnwscbqakiskfngqa
nwsdcwf.sr”

“NwscUsyjgnycbfnsicmqicnwscj  sicbxfyysy,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Qmcbqjiys,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicEsiafarc“Nwfn’ycowdcGcwf.scfcmssxgakcmqicnwshrcGn’ycyqhs
qmcnwqyscysbjxfic igsyny,cgkaqifan,czjh ngqjy——”

“Nwsd’iscfxxckqqpchsa,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“sfbwcgacwgycqoacofdrcNws
Gigywc igsynwqqpcgycwqaqjispcfxxcnwscoqixpcq.sir”

“Qcdsy,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Aqncxgescyqhscqmcnwscqnwsic igsynwqqpycqacnwscbqangasan,”cyfgpcHi
H’Bqd,c“jaoqinwdcqmcnwscafhsr”

“ siwf ycdqj’iscigkwn,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cisxsangakr

“QmcbqjiyscG’hcigkwn,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“Gcwf.sa’nczssacgacnwscoqixp
fxxcnwgycnghscfapcyssachqyncygpsycqmcgncognwqjnczsgakcfcujpkscqm
bwfifbnsir”

Nwscksanxshsacpifaecfkfga,cqascmqxxqogakcfaqnwsi’ycstfh xsrcHicEsiafa
ysshspcnqczscosgkwgakcyqhsnwgakcgacwgychgaprcWscofycgh isyysprcWscwfpcf
wgkwcq gagqacqmcHicBjaagakwfhcfycfcujpkscqmcbwfifbnsicfapcfycfcisfpsi
qmcmfbsyrcWscfyespcmqic fingbjxfiyr

“Q,cgn’ycujyncfcisnisfn,cdqjceaqo,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“Mfnwsic jipqa
gyckg.gakcgnrcGn’ycmqiczjygasyychsa,cdqjceaqor”

“Wscoqa’nczscnqqcwfipcqacjy,cNqh,”cyfgpcHic qosic siyjfyg.sxdr

“Mfnwsic jipqa?cMfnwsic jipqa?”cyfgpcnwscga.fxgpr

“Q,cdqjchjynceaqocwgh,cNqh,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhcynqjnxdrc“Mgascuqxxd
msxxqo!cWs’ycfchfacqmcnwscoqixpcxgescqjiysx.syr”

“Fw,crrrcdsyrcGcnwgaecGceaqocwghrcIfnwsicispcmfbs;cnfxxr”

“Nwfn’ycnwschfar”

“Fapcnsxxchs,cHfingarrrrcGycwscfckqqpc isfbwsi?”

“HjaaqrrrrcGn’ycaqncstfbnxdcfcysihqa,cdqjceaqorcGn’ycujyncegapcqmcf
migsapxdcnfxe,cdqjceaqo,cgacfcbqhhqa-ysayscofdr”

HicEsiafacpsxgzsifnsprcHicH’Bqdcyfgp:

“MfnwsicNqhcZjies,cnwfncofycnwsczqd!”

“Q,cMfnwsicNqhcZjies,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“nwfncofycfczqiacqifnqircPgp
dqjcs.sicwsficwgh,cNqh?”

“PgpcGcs.sicwsficwgh!”cyfgpcnwscga.fxgp,casnnxsprc“Ifnwsi!cGcwsfip
wghrrrr”

“Fapcdsncnwsdcyfdcwscofya’nchjbwcqmcfcnwsqxqkgfa,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Gycnwfncyq?”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Q,cqmcbqjiys,caqnwgakcoiqak,cdqjceaqorcQaxdcyqhsnghsy,cnwsdcyfd,cws
pgpa’nc isfbwcowfncofycljgnscqinwqpqtr”

“Fw!crrrcwscofycfcy xsapgpchfa,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Gcwsfipcwghcqabs,”cHicEsiafacbqangajsprc“Gcmqiksncnwscyjzusbncqmcwgy
pgybqjiyscaqorcBiqmnqacfapcGcosiscgacnwsczfbecqmcnwscrrrc gn,cdqjceaqo
rrrcnws——”

“Nwsczqpd,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Dsy,cgacnwsczfbecasficnwscpqqircGcmqiksncaqocowfnrrrrcQcdsy,cgncofycqa
nwsc q s,cnwscxfnsc q srcGcishshzsicgncosxxrcJ qachdcoqipcgncofy
hfkagmgbsan,cnwscyndxscqmcnwscqifnqidrcFapcwgyc.qgbs!cKqp!cwfpa’ncwscf
.qgbs!c_Nwsc igyqasicqmcnwsc.fngbfa_,cwscbfxxspcwghrcGcishshzsicBiqmnqa
yfdgakcnqchscowsacoscbfhscqjn——”

“Zjncws’ycfacQifakshfa,cBiqmnqa,cgya’ncws?”cyfgpcHic qosir

“‘Bqjiyscwscgy,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,c“fapcfcpfhaspcpsbsancQifakshfacnqqrcOs
osancganqcZjnxsi’ycgacHqqiscYnissn—mfgnw,cGcofycksajgasxdchq.sp,cnsxx
dqjcnwscKqp’ycnijnw—fapcGcishshzsicosxxcwgyc.sidcoqipyrc_Esiafa_,cws
yfgp,c_oscoqiywg cfncpgmmsisancfxnfiy_,cwscyfgp,c_zjncqjiczsxgsmcgycnws
yfhs_rcYnijbechscfyc.sidcosxxc jnr”

“Nwsis’ycfckqqpcpsfxcgacnwfn,”cyfgpcHic qosirc“Nwsiscjyspcfxofdycnqczs
biqopycqmc iqnsynfanycgacnwscbwf sxcowsiscMfnwsicNqhcofyc isfbwgakr”

“Nwsis’ycaqnchjbwcpgmmsisabsczsnossacjy,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“Osczqnwczsxgs.scga——”

Wscwsygnfnspcmqicfchqhsanr

“rrrcgacnwscIspsshsircQaxdcnwsdcpqa’nczsxgs.scgacnwsc q scfapcgacnws
hqnwsicqmcKqpr”

“Zjn,cqmcbqjiys,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhcljgsnxdcfapcsmmsbng.sxd,c“qji
isxgkgqacgyc_nws_cisxgkgqa,cnwscqxp,cqigkgafxcmfgnwr”

“Aqncfcpqjzncqmcgn,”cyfgpcHicEsiafacofihxdr

HiycEsiafacbfhscnqcnwscpqqicqmcnwsczspiqqhcfapcfaaqjabsp:

“Wsis’ycfc.gygnqicmqicdqj!”

“Owqcgycgn?”

“HicMqkfindr”

“Q,cbqhscga!cbqhscga!”

Fc fxscq.fxcmfbscbfhscmqiofipcganqcnwscxgkwnrcNwscfibwcqmcgnycmfgi
nifgxgakchqjynfbwscofycis sfnspcgacnwscmfgicsdsziqoycxqq spcfzq.s
 xsfyfanxdcfynqagywspcsdsyrcHicMqkfindcofycfchqpsynckiqbsircWscwfp
mfgxspcgaczjygasyycgacfcxgbsayspcwqjyscgacnwscbgndczsbfjyscwgy
mgafabgfxcbqapgngqacwfpcbqaynifgaspcwghcnqcngscwghysxmcnqcysbqap-bxfyy
pgyngxxsiycfapczisosiyrcWscwfpcq saspcfcyhfxxcywq cqacKxfyas.gacIqfp
owsis,cwscmxfnnsispcwghysxm,cwgychfaasiycoqjxpcgakifngfnscwghcognwcnws
wqjysog.sycqmcnwscpgynigbnrcWsczqiscwghysxmcognwcfcbsinfgackifbs,
bqh xghsanspcxgnnxscbwgxpisacfapcy qescognwcfcasfncsajabgfngqarcWscofy
aqncognwqjncbjxnjisr

HicMqkfindcziqjkwncfckgmncognwcwgh,cfcwfxm- gancqmcy sbgfxcowgyedrcWs
galjgispc qxgnsxdcmqicHicEsiafa,c xfbspcwgyckgmncqacnwscnfzxscfapcyfn
pqoacognwcnwscbqh fadcqacsljfxcnsihyrcHicEsiafacf  isbgfnspcnwsckgmn
fxxcnwschqiscygabscwscofycfofiscnwfncnwsiscofycfcyhfxxcfbbqjancmqi
kiqbsigsycjaysnnxspczsnossacwghcfapcHicMqkfindrcWscyfgp:

“Gcoqjxpa’ncpqjzncdqj,cqxpchfarcQ sacnwfn,cUfbe,cogxxcdqj?”

Hic qosicfkfgacqmmgbgfnsprcKxfyysycosiscigayspcfapcmg.scyhfxxchsfyjisy
qmcowgyedcosisc qjispcqjnrcNwgycasocgamxjsabscsaxg.saspcnws
bqa.siyfngqarcHicMqkfind,cygnngakcqacfcyhfxxcfisfcqmcnwscbwfgi,cofy
y sbgfxxdcgansisynspr

“ q scXsqcTGGGr,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“ofycqascqmcnwscxgkwnycqmcnws
fksrcWgyckisfncgpsf,cdqjceaqo,cofycnwscjagqacqmcnwscXfngacfapcKisse
BwjibwsyrcNwfncofycnwscfghcqmcwgycxgmsr”

“GcqmnsacwsfipcwscofycqascqmcnwschqyncgansxxsbnjfxchsacgacSjiq s,”cyfgp
Hic qosirc“Gchsfa,cf fincmiqhcwgyczsgakc q sr”

“Yqcwscofy,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“gmcaqnc_nws_chqyncyqrcWgychqnnq,cdqj
eaqo,cfyc q s,cofyc_Xjtcj qacXjt—Xgkwncj qacXgkwn_r”

“Aq,caq,”cyfgpcHicMqkfindcsfksixdrc“Gcnwgaecdqj’iscoiqakcnwsisrcGncofy
_XjtcgacNsaszigy_,cGcnwgae—_XgkwncgacPfieasyy_r”

“Qcdsy,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqd,c“_Nsaszifs_r”

“Fxxqochs,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhc qygng.sxd,c“gncofyc_Xjtcj qacXjt_rcFap
 gjycGTrcwgyc ispsbsyyqi’ychqnnqcofyc_Bijtcj qacBijt_—nwfncgy,c_Biqyy
j qacBiqyy_—nqcywqocnwscpgmmsisabsczsnossacnwsgicnoqc qangmgbfnsyr”

NwscgamsisabscofycfxxqosprcHicBjaagakwfhcbqangajspr

“ q scXsq,cdqjceaqo,cofycfckisfncybwqxficfapcfc qsnr”

“Wscwfpcfcyniqakcmfbs,”cyfgpcHicEsiafar

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“WscoiqnscXfngac qsnidr”

“Gycnwfncyq?”cyfgpcHicMqkfindr

HicH’Bqdcnfynspcwgycowgyedcbqansanspxdcfapcywqqecwgycwsfpcognwcfcpqjzxs
gansangqa,cyfdgak:

“Nwfn’ycaqcuqes,cGcbfacnsxxcdqjr”

“Oscpgpa’ncxsfiacnwfn,cNqh,”cyfgpcHic qosi,cmqxxqogakcHicH’Bqd’y
stfh xs,c“owsacoscosancnqcnwsc saad-f-ossecybwqqxr”

“Nwsiscofychfadcfckqqpchfacosancnqcnwsc saad-f-ossecybwqqxcognwcfcyqp
qmcnjimcjapsicwgycqtnsi,”cyfgpcHicEsiafacysansangqjyxdrc“Nwscqxpcydynsh
ofycnwsczsyn:c xfgacwqasyncspjbfngqarcAqascqmcdqjichqpsiacnijh sidrrrr”

“Ljgnscigkwn,”cyfgpcHic qosir

“Aqcyj simxjgngsy,”cyfgpcHicMqkfindr

Wscsajabgfnspcnwscoqipcfapcnwsacpifaeckif.sxdr

“Gcishshzsicisfpgak,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“nwfncqascqmc q scXsq’yc qshy
ofycqacnwscga.sangqacqmcnwsc wqnqkif w—gacXfnga,cqmcbqjiysr”

“Qacnwsc wqnqkif w!”cstbxfghspcHicEsiafar

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

Wscfxyqcpifaecmiqhcwgyckxfyyr

“Osxx,cdqjceaqo,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqd,c“gya’ncnwsc wqnqkif wcoqapsimjxcowsa
dqjcbqhscnqcnwgaecqmcgn?”

“Q,cqmcbqjiys,”cyfgpcHic qosi,c“kisfnchgapycbfacysscnwgakyr”

“Fycnwsc qsncyfdy:c_Kisfnchgapycfisc.sidcasficnqchfpasyy_,”cyfgpcHi
Mqkfindr

HicEsiafacysshspcnqczscniqjzxspcgachgaprcWschfpscfacsmmqincnqcisbfxx
nwsc iqnsynfancnwsqxqkdcqacyqhscnwqiadc qganycfapcgacnwscsapcfppisyysp
HicBjaagakwfhr

“Nsxxchs,cHfinga,”cwscyfgprc“Osisa’ncyqhscqmcnwsc q sy—qmcbqjiys,caqn
qjic isysanchfa,cqicwgyc ispsbsyyqi,czjncyqhscqmcnwscqxpc q sy—aqn
stfbnxdcrrrcdqjceaqocrrrcj cnqcnwsceaqbesi?”

NwsiscofycfcygxsabsrcHicBjaagakwfhcyfgp:

“Q,cqmcbqjiys,cnwsiscosiscyqhsczfpcxqnyrrrrcZjncnwscfynqagywgakcnwgak
gycnwgyrcAqncqascqmcnwsh,caqncnwsczgkksyncpijaefip,caqncnwschqyncrrr
qjn-fap-qjncijmmgfa,caqncqascqmcnwshcs.sic isfbwspc_stcbfnwspif_cfcoqip
qmcmfxyscpqbnigasrcAqocgya’ncnwfncfacfynqagywgakcnwgak?”

“Nwfncgy,”cyfgpcHicEsiafar

“Dsy,czsbfjyscowsacnwsc q scy sfeyc_stcbfnwspif_,”cHicMqkfind
st xfgasp,c“wscgycgamfxxgzxsr”

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Q,cGceaqocfzqjncnwscgamfxxgzgxgndcqmcnwsc q srcGcishshzsicGcofy
dqjaksicnwsarrrrcQicofycgncnwfn——?”

HicMqkfindcgansiij nsprcWscnqqecj cnwsczqnnxscfapcwsx spcnwscqnwsiycnq
fcxgnnxschqisrcHicH’Bqd,cyssgakcnwfncnwsiscofycaqncsaqjkwcnqckqciqjap,
 xsfpspcnwfncwscwfpcaqncmgagywspcwgycmgiynchsfyjisrcNwscqnwsiycfbbs nsp
japsic iqnsynrcNwscxgkwnchjygbcqmcowgyedcmfxxgakcganqckxfyysychfpscfa
fkissfzxscgansixjpsr

“Owfn’ycnwfncdqjcosiscyfdgak,cNqh?”cfyespcHicH’Bqdr

“ f fxcgamfxxgzgxgnd,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“nwfncofycnwsckisfnsyncybsas
gacnwscowqxscwgynqidcqmcnwscBwjibwr”

“Wqocofycnwfn,cHfinga?”cfyespcHic qosir

HicBjaagakwfhcwsxpcj cnoqcnwgbecmgaksiyr

“Gacnwscyfbispcbqxxsks,cdqjceaqo,cqmcbfipgafxycfapcfibwzgywq ycfap
zgywq ycnwsiscosiscnoqchsacowqcwsxpcqjncfkfgayncgncowgxscnwscqnwsiy
osiscfxxcmqicgnrcNwscowqxscbqabxf.scstbs ncnwsyscnoqcofycjafaghqjyrcAq!
Nwsdcoqjxpa’ncwf.scgn!”

“Wf!”cyfgpcHicH’Bqdr

“FapcnwsdcosiscfcKsihfacbfipgafxczdcnwscafhscqmcPqxxgakcrrrcqicPqoxgak
rrrcqi——”

“PqoxgakcofycaqcKsihfa,cfapcnwfn’ycfcyjiscmg.s,”cyfgpcHic qosi,
xfjkwgakr

“Osxx,cnwgyckisfncKsihfacbfipgafx,cowfns.sicwgycafhscofy,cofycqas;cfap
nwscqnwsicofycUqwacHfbWfxsr”

“Owfn?”cbigspcHicEsiafarc“GycgncUqwacqmcNjfh?”

“Fiscdqjcyjiscqmcnwfncaqo?”cfyespcHicMqkfindcpjzgqjyxdrc“Gcnwqjkwncgn
ofycyqhscGnfxgfacqicFhsigbfar”

“UqwacqmcNjfh,”cis sfnspcHicBjaagakwfh,c“ofycnwschfar”

WscpifaecfapcnwscqnwsicksanxshsacmqxxqospcwgycxsfprcNwsacwscisyjhsp:

“Nwsiscnwsdcosiscfncgn,cfxxcnwscbfipgafxycfapczgywq ycfapcfibwzgywq y
miqhcfxxcnwscsapycqmcnwscsfinwcfapcnwsyscnoqcmgkwngakcpqkcfapcps.gx
jangxcfncxfyncnwsc q scwghysxmcynqqpcj cfapcpsbxfispcgamfxxgzgxgndcf
pqkhfcqmcnwscBwjibwc_stcbfnwspif_rcQacnwsc.sidchqhsancUqwacHfbWfxs,cowq
wfpczssacfikjgakcfapcfikjgakcfkfgayncgn,cynqqpcj cfapcywqjnspcqjncognw
nwsc.qgbscqmcfcxgqa:c‘_Bispq!_’”

“_Gczsxgs.s!_”cyfgpcHicMqkfindr

“_Bispq!_”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhrc“NwfncywqospcnwscmfgnwcwscwfprcWs
yjzhgnnspcnwschqhsancnwsc q scy qesr”

“FapcowfncfzqjncPqoxgak?”cfyespcHicH’Bqdr

“NwscKsihfacbfipgafxcoqjxpa’ncyjzhgnrcWscxsmncnwscbwjibwr”

HicBjaagakwfh’ycoqipycwfpczjgxncj cnwsc.fyncghfkscqmcnwscbwjibwcgacnws
hgapycqmcwgycwsfisiyrcWgycpss cifjbqjyc.qgbscwfpcnwigxxspcnwshcfycgn
jnnsispcnwscoqipcqmczsxgsmcfapcyjzhgyygqarcOwsacHiycEsiafacbfhscganq
nwsciqqhcpidgakcwsicwfapycywscbfhscganqcfcyqxshacbqh fadrcYwscpgpcaqn
pgynjizcnwscygxsabs,czjncxsfaspcq.sicnwscifgxcfncnwscmqqncqmcnwsczspr

“GcqabscyfocUqwacHfbWfxs,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,c“fapcG’xxcas.sicmqiksncgncfy
xqakcfycGcxg.sr”

Wscnjiaspcnqofipycwgycogmscnqczscbqamgihspr

“Gcqmnsacnqxpcdqjcnwfn?”

HiycEsiafacaqppspr

“Gncofycfncnwscja.sgxgakcqmcYgicUqwacKifd’ycynfnjsrcSphjapcPodsicKifd
ofycy sfegak,czxfnwsigakcfofd,cfapcwsiscofycnwgycqxpcmsxxqo,
bifzzsp-xqqegakcqxpcbwf ,cxqqegakcfncwghcmiqhcjapsicwgyczjywd
sdsziqoyr”

HicEsiafaceagnnspcwgycziqoycfap,cxqosigakcwgycwsfpcxgescfacfakidczjxx,
kxfispcfncwgycogmsr

“Kqp!”cwscstbxfghsp,cisyjhgakcwgycafnjifxcmfbs,c“Gcas.sicyfocyjbwcfa
sdscgacfchfa’ycwsfprcGncofycfychjbwcfycnqcyfd:c_Gcwf.scdqjc iq sixd
nf sp,chdcxfp_rcWscwfpcfacsdscxgescfcwfoer”

“AqascqmcnwscKifdycofycfadckqqp,”cyfgpcHic qosir

Nwsiscofycfc fjyscfkfgarcHic qosicnjiaspcnqcHiycEsiafacfapcyfgpcognw
fzij ncuq.gfxgnd:

“Osxx,cHiycEsiafa,cos’isckqgakcnqchfescdqjichfacwsiscfckqqpcwqxdc gqjy
fapcKqp-msfigakcIqhfacBfnwqxgbr”

Wscyos ncwgycfihciqjapcnwscbqh fadcgabxjyg.sxdr

“Os’iscfxxckqgakcnqchfescfcisnisfncnqksnwsicfapcbqamsyycqjicygay—fap
Kqpceaqoycoscofancgnczfpxdr”

“Gcpqa’nchgap,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cyhgxgakcfcxgnnxscasi.qjyxdr

HiycEsiafacnwqjkwncgncoqjxpczscogysicnqcbqabsfxcwsicyfngymfbngqarcYq
ywscyfgp:

“Gc gndcnwsc qqic igsyncnwfncwfycnqcxgynsacnqcdqjicnfxsr”

HicEsiafa’ycst isyygqacbwfakspr

“Gmcwscpqsya’ncxgescgn,”cwscyfgpczxjanxd,c“wscbfacrrrcpqcnwscqnwsi
nwgakrcG’xxcujyncnsxxcwghchdcxgnnxscnfxscqmcoqsrcG’hcaqncyjbwcfczfp
msxxqo——”

HicBjaagakwfhcgansi.saspc iqh nxdr

“Os’xxcfxxcisaqjabscnwscps.gx,”cwscyfgp,c“nqksnwsi,caqncmqiksnngakcwgy
oqieycfapc qh yr”

“Ksnczswgapchs,cYfnfa!”cyfgpcHicMqkfind,cxfjkwgakcfapcxqqegakcfncnws
qnwsiyr

Hic qosicyfgpcaqnwgakrcWscmsxncbqh xsnsxdcqjn-ksasifxxsprcZjncfc xsfysp
st isyygqacmxgbesispcfbiqyycwgycmfbsr

“Fxxcoscwf.scnqcpq,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfh,c“gycnqcynfapcj cognwcxgkwnsp
bfapxsycgacqjicwfapycfapcisasocqjiczf ngyhfxc.qoyr”

“Q,cpqa’ncmqiksncnwscbfapxs,cNqh,”cyfgpcHicH’Bqd,c“owfns.sicdqjcpqr”

“Owfn?”cyfgpcHicEsiafarc“HjyncGcwf.scfcbfapxs?”

“Qcdsy,”cyfgpcHicBjaagakwfhr

“Aq,cpfhacgncfxx,”cyfgpcHicEsiafacysaygzxd,c“Gcpifocnwscxgascnwsisr
G’xxcpqcnwscuqzcigkwncsaqjkwrcG’xxcpqcnwscisnisfnczjygasyycfap
bqamsyygqa,cfapcrrrcfxxcnwfnczjygasyyrcZjncrrrcaqcbfapxsy!cAq,cpfhacgn
fxx,cGczficnwscbfapxsy!”

Wscywqqecwgycwsfpcognwcmfibgbfxckif.gndr

“Xgynsacnqcnwfn!”cyfgpcwgycogmsr

“Gczficnwscbfapxsy,”cyfgpcHicEsiafa,cbqaybgqjycqmcwf.gakcbisfnspcfa
smmsbncqacwgycfjpgsabscfapcbqangajgakcnqcywfescwgycwsfpcnqcfapcmiqrc“G
zficnwschfkgb-xfansiaczjygasyyr”

S.sidqascxfjkwspcwsfingxdr

“Nwsis’ycfcagbscBfnwqxgbcmqicdqj!”cyfgpcwgycogmsr

“Aqcbfapxsy!”cis sfnspcHicEsiafacqzpjifnsxdrc“Nwfn’ycqmm!”



Nwscnifays ncqmcnwscUsyjgncBwjibwcgacKfipgasicYnissncofycfxhqyncmjxx;
fapcyngxxcfncs.sidchqhsancksanxshsacsansispcmiqhcnwscygpscpqqicfap,
pgisbnspczdcnwscxfd-ziqnwsi,cofxespcqacng nqscfxqakcnwscfgyxsycjangx
nwsdcmqjapcysfngakcfbbqhhqpfngqarcNwscksanxshsacosiscfxxcosxxcpisyysp
fapcqipsixdrcNwscxgkwncqmcnwscxfh ycqmcnwscbwjibwcmsxxcj qacfacfyyshzxd
qmczxfbecbxqnwsycfapcowgnscbqxxfiy,cisxgs.spcwsiscfapcnwsisczdcnosspy,
qacpfiechqnnxspc gxxfiycqmckissachfizxscfapcqacxjkjzigqjycbfa.fysyrcNws
ksanxshsacyfncgacnwsczsabwsy,cwf.gakcwgnbwspcnwsgicniqjysiycyxgkwnxd
fzq.scnwsgiceassycfapcxfgpcnwsgicwfnycgacysbjigndrcNwsdcyfncosxxczfbe
fapckfvspcmqihfxxdcfncnwscpgynfancy sbecqmcispcxgkwncowgbwcofy
yjy sapspczsmqiscnwscwgkwcfxnfir

Gacqascqmcnwsczsabwsycasficnwsc jx gncyfncHicBjaagakwfhcfapcHicEsiafar
GacnwsczsabwczswgapcyfncHicH’Bqdcfxqas:cfapcgacnwsczsabwczswgapcwghcyfn
Hic qosicfapcHicMqkfindrcHicH’Bqdcwfpcnigspcjayjbbsyymjxxdcnqcmgapcf
 xfbscgacnwsczsabwcognwcnwscqnwsiycfap,cowsacnwsc findcwfpcysnnxspcpqoa
gacnwscmqihcqmcfcljgabjat,cwscwfpcnigspcjayjbbsyymjxxdcnqchfescbqhgb
ishfieyrcFycnwsyscwfpcaqnczssacosxxcisbsg.spcwscwfpcpsygynsprcS.sacws
ofycysaygzxscqmcnwscpsbqiqjycfnhqy wsiscfapcs.sacwsczskfacnqcisy qapcnq
nwscisxgkgqjycynghjxjyrcGacfcowgy sicHicBjaagakwfhcpisocHicEsiafa’y
fnnsangqacnqcHicWfimqip,cnwschqasdxsapsi,cowqcyfncyqhscpgynfabscqmm,
fapcnqcHicMfaagak,cnwsciskgynifngqacfksancfapchfdqichfesicqmcnwscbgnd,
owqcofycygnngakcghhspgfnsxdcjapsicnwsc jx gnczsygpscqascqmcnwscasoxd
sxsbnspcbqjabgxxqiycqmcnwscofiprcNqcnwscigkwncyfncqxpcHgbwfsxcKighsy,
nwscqoasicqmcnwissc foaziqesi’ycywq y,cfapcPfacWqkfa’ycas wso,cowqcofy
j cmqicnwscuqzcgacnwscNqoacBxsie’ycqmmgbsrcMfinwsicgacmiqancyfncHi
Wsapigbe,cnwscbwgsmcis qinsicqmc_NwscMisshfa’ycUqjiafx_,cfapc qqi
Q’Bfiiqxx,cfacqxpcmigsapcqmcHicEsiafa’y,cowqcwfpczssacfncqascnghscf
bqaygpsifzxscbqhhsibgfxcmgkjisrcKifpjfxxd,cfycwscisbqkagyspcmfhgxgfi
mfbsy,cHicEsiafaczskfacnqcmssxchqiscfncwqhsrcWgycwfn,cowgbwcwfpczssa
iswfzgxgnfnspczdcwgycogms,cisynspcj qacwgyceassyrcQabscqicnogbscws
 jxxspcpqoacwgycbjmmycognwcqascwfapcowgxscwscwsxpcnwsczighcqmcwgycwfn
xgkwnxd,czjncmgihxd,cognwcnwscqnwsicwfapr

Fc qosimjx-xqqegakcmgkjis,cnwscj  sic fincqmcowgbwcofycpif spcognwcf
owgnscyji xgbs,cofycqzysi.spcnqczscynijkkxgakcganqcnwsc jx gnr
Yghjxnfasqjyxdcnwscbqakiskfngqacjaysnnxsp,c iqpjbspcwfapesibwgsmycfap
easxncj qacnwshcognwcbfisrcHicEsiafacmqxxqospcnwscksasifxcstfh xsrcNws
 igsyn’ycmgkjiscaqocynqqpcj igkwncgacnwsc jx gn,cnoq-nwgipycqmcgny
zjxe,cbiqoaspczdcfchfyyg.scispcmfbs,cf  sfigakcfzq.scnwsczfxjynifpsr

Mfnwsic jipqaceasxncpqoa,cnjiaspcnqofipycnwscispcy sbecqmcxgkwncfap,
bq.sigakcwgycmfbscognwcwgycwfapy,c ifdsprcFmnsicfacgansi.fx,cws
jabq.sispcwgycmfbscfapciqysrcNwscbqakiskfngqaciqyscfxyqcfapcysnnxsp
fkfgacqacgnyczsabwsyrcHicEsiafacisynqispcwgycwfncnqcgnycqigkgafx
 qygngqacqacwgyceasscfapc isysanspcfacfnnsang.scmfbscnqcnwsc isfbwsir
Nwsc isfbwsicnjiaspczfbecsfbwcogpscyxss.scqmcwgycyji xgbscognwcfa
sxfzqifnscxfikscksynjiscfapcyxqoxdcyji.sdspcnwscfiifdcqmcmfbsyrcNwsacws
yfgp:


_“Mqicnwscbwgxpisacqmcnwgycoqixpcfiscogysicgacnwsgicksasifngqacnwfacnws
bwgxpisacqmcxgkwnrcOwsismqischfescjanqcdqjiysx.sycmigsapycqjncqmcnws
hfhhqacqmcgagljgndcyqcnwfncowsacdqjcpgscnwsdchfdcisbsg.scdqjcganq
s.sixfyngakcposxxgakyr”_


Mfnwsic jipqacps.sxq spcnwscnstncognwcisyqafancfyyjifabsrcGncofycqascqm
nwschqyncpgmmgbjxncnstnycgacfxxcnwscYbig njisy,cwscyfgp,cnqcgansi isn
 iq sixdrcGncofycfcnstncowgbwchgkwncysshcnqcnwscbfyjfxcqzysi.sicfn
.figfabscognwcnwscxqmndchqifxgndcsxysowsisc isfbwspczdcUsyjycBwigynr
Zjn,cwscnqxpcwgycwsfisiy,cnwscnstncwfpcysshspcnqcwghcy sbgfxxdcfpf nsp
mqicnwsckjgpfabscqmcnwqyscowqyscxqncgncofycnqcxsfpcnwscxgmscqmcnws
oqixpcfapcowqcdsncogywspcnqcxsfpcnwfncxgmscaqncgacnwschfaasicqm
oqixpxgakyrcGncofycfcnstncmqiczjygasyychsacfapc iqmsyygqafxchsarcUsyjy
Bwigyn,cognwcWgycpg.gascjapsiynfapgakcqmcs.sidcbifaadcqmcqjicwjhfa
afnjis,cjapsiynqqpcnwfncfxxchsacosiscaqncbfxxspcnqcnwscisxgkgqjycxgms,
nwfnczdcmficnwsc.fynchfuqigndcosiscmqibspcnqcxg.scgacnwscoqixpcfap,cnq
fcbsinfgacstnsan,cmqicnwscoqixp:cfapcgacnwgycysansabscWscpsygkaspcnq
kg.scnwshcfcoqipcqmcbqjaysx,cysnngakczsmqiscnwshcfycstsh xfiycgacnws
isxgkgqjycxgmscnwqysc.sidcoqiywg  siycqmcHfhhqacowqcosiscqmcfxxchsacnws
xsfyncyqxgbgnqjycgachfnnsiycisxgkgqjyr

Wscnqxpcwgycwsfisiycnwfncwscofycnwsiscnwfncs.sagakcmqicaqcnsiigmdgak,
aqcstnif.fkfanc ji qys;czjncfycfchfacqmcnwscoqixpcy sfegakcnqcwgy
msxxqo-hsarcWscbfhscnqcy sfecnqczjygasyychsacfapcwscoqjxpcy sfecnqcnwsh
gacfczjygasyyxgescofdrcGmcwschgkwncjyscnwschsnf wqi,cwscyfgp,cwscofy
nwsgicy gignjfxcfbbqjanfan;cfapcwscogywspcsfbwcfapcs.sidcqascqmcwgy
wsfisiycnqcq sacwgyczqqey,cnwsczqqeycqmcwgycy gignjfxcxgms,cfapcysscgm
nwsdcnfxxgspcfbbjifnsxdcognwcbqaybgsabsr

UsyjycBwigyncofycaqncfcwfipcnfyehfynsircWscjapsiynqqpcqjicxgnnxs
mfgxgaky,cjapsiynqqpcnwscosfeasyycqmcqjic qqicmfxxsacafnjis,cjapsiynqqp
nwscnsh nfngqaycqmcnwgycxgmsrcOschgkwncwf.scwfp,coscfxxcwfpcmiqhcnghs
nqcnghs,cqjicnsh nfngqay:coschgkwncwf.s,coscfxxcwfp,cqjicmfgxgakyrcZjn
qascnwgakcqaxd,cwscyfgp,cwscoqjxpcfyecqmcwgycwsfisiyrcFapcnwfncofy:cnq
zscynifgkwncfapchfaxdcognwcKqprcGmcnwsgicfbbqjanycnfxxgspcgacs.sid
 qgancnqcyfd:

“Osxx,cGcwf.sc.sigmgspchdcfbbqjanyrcGcmgapcfxxcosxxr”

Zjncgm,cfychgkwncwf  sa,cnwsiscosiscyqhscpgybis fabgsy,cnqcfphgncnws
nijnw,cnqczscmifaecfapcyfdcxgescfchfa:

“Osxx,cGcwf.scxqqespcganqchdcfbbqjanyrcGcmgapcnwgycoiqakcfapcnwgy
oiqakrcZjn,cognwcKqp’yckifbs,cGcogxxcisbngmdcnwgycfapcnwgyrcGcogxxcysn
igkwnchdcfbbqjanyr”



NWScPSFP

Xgxd,cnwscbfisnfesi’ycpfjkwnsi,cofycxgnsifxxdcijacqmmcwsicmssnrcWfipxd
wfpcywscziqjkwncqascksanxshfacganqcnwscxgnnxsc fanidczswgapcnwscqmmgbs
qacnwsckiqjapcmxqqicfapcwsx spcwghcqmmcognwcwgycq.sibqfncnwfacnws
owssvdcwfxx-pqqiczsxxcbxfakspcfkfgacfapcywscwfpcnqcybfh sicfxqakcnws
zfiscwfxxofdcnqcxsncgacfaqnwsickjsynrcGncofycosxxcmqicwsicywscwfpcaqn
nqcfnnsapcnqcnwscxfpgsycfxyqrcZjncHgyycEfnscfapcHgyycUjxgfcwfpcnwqjkwn
qmcnwfncfapcwfpcbqa.sinspcnwsczfnwiqqhcj ynfgiycganqcfcxfpgsy’
pisyygak-iqqhrcHgyycEfnscfapcHgyycUjxgfcosiscnwsis,ckqyyg gakcfap
xfjkwgakcfapcmjyygak,cofxegakcfmnsicsfbwcqnwsicnqcnwscwsfpcqmcnws
ynfgiy,c ssigakcpqoacq.sicnwsczfagynsiycfapcbfxxgakcpqoacnqcXgxdcnqcfye
wsicowqcwfpcbqhsr

Gncofycfxofdycfckisfncfmmfgi,cnwscHgyysycHqiefa’ycfaajfxcpfabsr
S.sidzqpdcowqceasocnwshcbfhscnqcgn,chshzsiycqmcnwscmfhgxd,cqxpcmigsapy
qmcnwscmfhgxd,cnwschshzsiycqmcUjxgf’ycbwqgi,cfadcqmcEfns’yc j gxycnwfn
osisckiqoacj csaqjkw,cfapcs.sacyqhscqmcHfidcUfas’yc j gxycnqqrcAs.si
qabscwfpcgncmfxxsacmxfnrcMqicdsfiycfapcdsfiycgncwfpckqascqmmcga
y xsapgpcyndxscfycxqakcfycfadqascbqjxpcishshzsi;cs.sicygabscEfnscfap
Ujxgf,cfmnsicnwscpsfnwcqmcnwsgicziqnwsic fn,cwfpcxsmncnwscwqjyscga
YnqasdcZfnnsicfapcnfesacHfidcUfas,cnwsgicqaxdcagsbs,cnqcxg.scognwcnwsh
gacnwscpfieckfjancwqjyscqacJywsi’ycGyxfap,cnwscj  sic fincqmcowgbwcnwsd
wfpcisanspcmiqhcHicMjxwfh,cnwscbqia-mfbnqicqacnwsckiqjapcmxqqircNwfn
ofycfckqqpcnwgindcdsfiycfkqcgmcgncofycfcpfdrcHfidcUfas,cowqcofycnwsacf
xgnnxsckgixcgacywqincbxqnwsy,cofycaqocnwschfgac iq cqmcnwscwqjyswqxp,
mqicywscwfpcnwscqikfacgacWfppgaknqacIqfprcYwscwfpczssacnwiqjkwcnws
Fbfpshdcfapckf.scfc j gxy’cbqabsincs.sidcdsficgacnwscj  siciqqhcqmcnws
FangsancBqabsincIqqhyrcHfadcqmcwsic j gxyczsxqakspcnqcnwsczsnnsi-bxfyy
mfhgxgsycqacnwscEgakynqoacfapcPfxesdcxgasrcQxpcfycnwsdcosis,cwsicfjany
fxyqcpgpcnwsgicywfisrcUjxgf,cnwqjkwcywscofycljgnsckisd,cofycyngxxcnws
xsfpgakcyq ifaqcgacFpfhcfapcS.s’y,cfapcEfns,czsgakcnqqcmsszxscnqckq
fzqjnchjbw,ckf.schjygbcxsyyqaycnqczskgaasiycqacnwscqxpcyljfisc gfaqcga
nwsczfbeciqqhrcXgxd,cnwscbfisnfesi’ycpfjkwnsi,cpgpcwqjyshfgp’ycoqiecmqi
nwshrcNwqjkwcnwsgicxgmscofychqpsyncnwsdczsxgs.spcgacsfngakcosxx;cnws
zsyncqmcs.sidnwgak:cpgfhqap-zqascygixqgay,cnwiss-ywgxxgakcnsfcfapcnws
zsynczqnnxspcynqjnrcZjncXgxdcysxpqhchfpscfchgynfescgacnwscqipsiycyq
nwfncywsckqncqacosxxcognwcwsicnwisschgynisyysyrcNwsdcosiscmjyyd,cnwfn
ofycfxxrcZjncnwscqaxdcnwgakcnwsdcoqjxpcaqncynfapcofyczfbecfayosiyr

QmcbqjiyscnwsdcwfpckqqpcisfyqacnqczscmjyydcqacyjbwcfcagkwnrcFapcnwsacgn
ofycxqakcfmnsicnsacq’bxqbecfapcdsncnwsiscofycaqcygkacqmcKfzigsxcfapcwgy
ogmsrcZsygpsycnwsdcosiscpisfpmjxxdcfmifgpcnwfncMisppdcHfxgaychgkwncnjia
j cybisosprcNwsdcoqjxpcaqncogywcmqicoqixpycnwfncfadcqmcHfidcUfas’y
 j gxycywqjxpcysscwghcjapsicnwscgamxjsabs;cfapcowsacwscofycxgescnwfncgn
ofycyqhsnghsyc.sidcwfipcnqchfafkscwghrcMisppdcHfxgaycfxofdycbfhscxfns
zjncnwsdcoqapsispcowfncbqjxpczscess gakcKfzigsx:cfapcnwfncofycowfn
ziqjkwncnwshcs.sidcnoqchgajnsycnqcnwsczfagynsiycnqcfyecXgxdcwfpcKfzigsx
qicMisppdcbqhsr

“Q,cHicBqaiqd,”cyfgpcXgxdcnqcKfzigsxcowsacywscq saspcnwscpqqicmqicwgh,
“HgyycEfnscfapcHgyycUjxgfcnwqjkwncdqjcosiscas.sicbqhgakrcKqqp-agkwn,
HiycBqaiqdr”

“G’xxcsakfkscnwsdcpgp,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“zjncnwsdcmqiksncnwfnchdcogms
wsiscnfesycnwisschqinfxcwqjiycnqcpisyycwsiysxmr”

Wscynqqpcqacnwschfn,cybif gakcnwscyaqocmiqhcwgyckqxqywsy,cowgxscXgxd
xspcwgycogmscnqcnwscmqqncqmcnwscynfgiycfapcbfxxspcqjn:

“HgyycEfns,cwsis’ycHiycBqaiqdr”

EfnscfapcUjxgfcbfhscnqppxgakcpqoacnwscpfiecynfgiycfncqabsrcZqnwcqmcnwsh
egyyspcKfzigsx’ycogms,cyfgpcywschjynczsc sigywspcfxg.scfapcfyespcofy
Kfzigsxcognwcwsir

“WsiscGcfhcfycigkwncfycnwschfgx,cFjancEfns!cKqcqacj rcG’xxcmqxxqo,”
bfxxspcqjncKfzigsxcmiqhcnwscpfier

Wscbqangajspcybif gakcwgycmssnc.gkqiqjyxdcowgxscnwscnwisscoqhsacosan
j ynfgiy,cxfjkwgak,cnqcnwscxfpgsy’cpisyygak-iqqhrcFcxgkwncmigakscqm
yaqocxfdcxgescfcbf scqacnwscywqjxpsiycqmcwgycq.sibqfncfapcxgescnqsbf y
qacnwscnqsycqmcwgyckqxqywsy;cfap,cfycnwsczjnnqaycqmcwgycq.sibqfn
yxg  spcognwcfcyljsfegakcaqgyscnwiqjkwcnwscyaqo-yngmmsaspcmigsvs,cf
bqxp,cmifkifancfgicmiqhcqjn-qm-pqqiycsybf spcmiqhcbis.gbsycfapcmqxpyr

“Gycgncyaqogakcfkfga,cHicBqaiqd?”cfyespcXgxdr

Ywscwfpc isbspspcwghcganqcnwsc fanidcnqcwsx cwghcqmmcognwcwgycq.sibqfnr
Kfzigsxcyhgxspcfncnwscnwisscydxxfzxsycywscwfpckg.sacwgycyjiafhscfap
kxfabspcfncwsircYwscofycfcyxgh,ckiqogakckgix,c fxscgacbqh xstgqacfap
ognwcwfd-bqxqjispcwfgircNwsckfycgacnwsc fanidchfpscwsicxqqecyngxx
 fxsircKfzigsxcwfpceaqoacwsicowsacywscofycfcbwgxpcfapcjyspcnqcygncqa
nwscxqosyncyns cajiygakcfcifkcpqxxr

“Dsy,cXgxd,”cwscfayosisp,c“fapcGcnwgaecos’iscgacmqicfcagkwncqmcgnr”

Wscxqqespcj cfncnwsc fanidcbsgxgak,cowgbwcofycywfegakcognwcnwscynfh gak
fapcywjmmxgakcqmcmssncqacnwscmxqqicfzq.s,cxgynsaspcmqicfchqhsancnqcnws
 gfaqcfapcnwsackxfabspcfncnwsckgix,cowqcofycmqxpgakcwgycq.sibqfn
bfismjxxdcfncnwscsapcqmcfcywsxmr

“Nsxxchs,cXgxd,”cwscyfgpcgacfcmigsapxdcnqas,c“pqcdqjcyngxxckqcnq
ybwqqx?”

“Qcaq,cygi,”cywscfayosisprc“G’hcpqascybwqqxgakcnwgycdsficfapchqisr”

“Q,cnwsa,”cyfgpcKfzigsxckfgxd,c“Gcyj  qyscos’xxczsckqgakcnqcdqji
osppgakcqascqmcnwsyscmgascpfdycognwcdqjicdqjakchfa,csw?”

Nwsckgixckxfabspczfbecfncwghcq.sicwsicywqjxpsicfapcyfgpcognwckisfn
zgnnsiasyy:

“Nwschsacnwfncgycaqocgycqaxdcfxxc fxf.sicfapcowfncnwsdcbfacksncqjncqm
dqjr”

Kfzigsxcbqxqjispcfycgmcwscmsxncwscwfpchfpscfchgynfescfap,cognwqjn
xqqegakcfncwsi,cegbespcqmmcwgyckqxqywsycfapcmxgbespcfbng.sxdcognwcwgy
hjmmxsicfncwgyc fnsan-xsfnwsicywqsyr

WscofycfcynqjncnfxxgywcdqjakchfarcNwscwgkwcbqxqjicqmcwgycbwsseyc jywsp
j ofipycs.sacnqcwgycmqiswsfpcowsiscgncybfnnsispcgnysxmcgacfcmso
mqihxsyyc fnbwsycqmc fxscisp;cfapcqacwgycwfgixsyycmfbscnwsis
ybgangxxfnspcisynxsyyxdcnwsc qxgywspcxsaysycfapcnwsczigkwnckgxncighycqm
nwsckxfyysycowgbwcybissaspcwgycpsxgbfnscfapcisynxsyycsdsyrcWgyckxqyyd
zxfbecwfgicofyc finspcgacnwschgppxscfapczijywspcgacfcxqakcbji.sczswgap
wgycsfiycowsiscgncbjixspcyxgkwnxdczsasfnwcnwsckiqq.scxsmnczdcwgycwfnr

Owsacwscwfpcmxgbespcxjyniscganqcwgycywqsycwscynqqpcj cfapc jxxspcwgy
ofgynbqfncpqoachqiscngkwnxdcqacwgyc xjh czqpdrcNwsacwscnqqecfcbqga
if gpxdcmiqhcwgyc qbesnr

“QcXgxd,”cwscyfgp,cnwijyngakcgncganqcwsicwfapy,c“gn’ycBwigynhfy-nghs,
gya’ncgn?cUjyncrrrcwsis’ycfcxgnnxsrrrr”

Wscofxespcif gpxdcnqofipycnwscpqqir

“Qcaq,cygi!”cbigspcnwsckgix,cmqxxqogakcwghrc“Isfxxd,cygi,cGcoqjxpa’n
nfescgnr”

“Bwigynhfy-nghs!cBwigynhfy-nghs!”cyfgpcKfzigsx,cfxhqyncniqnngakcnqcnws
ynfgiycfapcof.gakcwgycwfapcnqcwsicgacps isbfngqar

Nwsckgix,cyssgakcnwfncwscwfpckfgaspcnwscynfgiy,cbfxxspcqjncfmnsicwgh:

“Osxx,cnwfaecdqj,cygir”

Wscofgnspcqjnygpscnwscpifogak-iqqhcpqqicjangxcnwscofxnvcywqjxpcmgagyw,
xgynsagakcnqcnwscyeginycnwfncyos ncfkfgayncgncfapcnqcnwscywjmmxgakcqm
mssnrcWscofycyngxxcpgybqh qyspczdcnwsckgix’yczgnnsicfapcyjppsacisnqinr
Gncwfpcbfyncfckxqqhcq.sicwghcowgbwcwscnigspcnqcpgy sxczdcfiifakgakcwgy
bjmmycfapcnwsczqoycqmcwgycngsrcWscnwsacnqqecmiqhcwgycofgynbqfnc qbesncf
xgnnxsc f sicfapckxfabspcfncnwscwsfpgakycwscwfpchfpscmqicwgycy ssbwrcWs
ofycjapsbgpspcfzqjncnwscxgasycmiqhcIqzsincZiqoagakcmqicwscmsfispcnwsd
oqjxpczscfzq.scnwscwsfpycqmcwgycwsfisiyrcYqhscljqnfngqacnwfncnwsdcoqjxp
isbqkagyscmiqhcYwfesy sfiscqicmiqhcnwscHsxqpgsycoqjxpczsczsnnsircNws
gapsxgbfnscbxfbegakcqmcnwschsa’ycwssxycfapcnwscywjmmxgakcqmcnwsgicyqxsy
ishgapspcwghcnwfncnwsgickifpscqmcbjxnjiscpgmmsispcmiqhcwgyrcWscoqjxp
qaxdchfescwghysxmcigpgbjxqjyczdcljqngakc qsnidcnqcnwshcowgbwcnwsdcbqjxp
aqncjapsiynfaprcNwsdcoqjxpcnwgaecnwfncwscofycfgigakcwgycyj sigqi
spjbfngqarcWscoqjxpcmfgxcognwcnwshcujyncfycwscwfpcmfgxspcognwcnwsckgix
gacnwsc fanidrcWscwfpcnfesacj cfcoiqakcnqasrcWgycowqxscy ssbwcofycf
hgynfescmiqhcmgiyncnqcxfyn,cfacjnnsicmfgxjisr

Ujyncnwsacwgycfjanycfapcwgycogmscbfhscqjncqmcnwscxfpgsy’cpisyygak-iqqhr
Wgycfjanycosiscnoqcyhfxxc xfgaxdcpisyyspcqxpcoqhsarcFjancUjxgfcofycfa
gabwcqicyqcnwscnfxxsircWsicwfgi,cpifoacxqocq.sicnwscnq ycqmcwsicsfiy,
ofyckisd;cfapckisdcfxyq,cognwcpfiesicywfpqoy,cofycwsicxfikscmxfbbgp
mfbsrcNwqjkwcywscofycynqjncgaczjgxpcfapcynqqpcsisbncwsicyxqocsdsycfap
 finspcxg yckf.scwsicnwscf  sfifabscqmcfcoqhfacowqcpgpcaqnceaqocowsis
ywscofycqicowsiscywscofyckqgakrcFjancEfnscofychqisc.g.fbgqjyrcWsicmfbs,
wsfxnwgsicnwfacwsicygynsi’y,cofycfxxc jbesiycfapcbisfysy,cxgescf
ywig.sxxspcispcf  xs,cfapcwsicwfgi,czifgpspcgacnwscyfhscqxp-mfywgqasp
ofd,cwfpcaqncxqyncgnycig scajncbqxqjir

NwsdczqnwcegyyspcKfzigsxcmifaexdrcWscofycnwsgicmf.qjignscas wso,cnws
yqacqmcnwsgicpsfpcsxpsicygynsi,cSxxsa,cowqcwfpchfiigspcNrcUrcBqaiqdcqm
nwsc qincfapcPqbeyr

“Kisnnfcnsxxychscdqj’iscaqnckqgakcnqcnfescfcbfzczfbecnqcHqaeynqoa
nqagkwn,cKfzigsx,”cyfgpcFjancEfnsr

“Aq,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,cnjiagakcnqcwgycogms,c“oscwfpcljgnscsaqjkwcqmcnwfn
xfyncdsfi,cwfpa’ncos?cPqa’ncdqjcishshzsi,cFjancEfns,cowfncfcbqxpcKisnnf
kqncqjncqmcgn?cBfzcogapqoycifnnxgakcfxxcnwscofd,cfapcnwscsfyncogap
zxqogakcgacfmnsicosc fyyspcHsiigqarc.sidcuqxxdcgncofyrcKisnnfcbfjkwncf
pisfpmjxcbqxpr”

FjancEfnscmiqoaspcys.sisxdcfapcaqppspcwsicwsfpcfncs.sidcoqipr

“Ljgnscigkwn,cKfzigsx,cljgnscigkwn,”cywscyfgprc“Dqjcbfa’nczscnqq
bfismjxr”

“ZjncfycmqicKisnnfcnwsis,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“yws’pcofxecwqhscgacnwscyaqo
gmcywscosiscxsnr”

HiycBqaiqdcxfjkwspr

“Pqa’nchgapcwgh,cFjancEfns,”cywscyfgprc“Ws’ycisfxxdcfacfomjxczqnwsi,
owfncognwckissacywfpsycmqicNqh’ycsdsycfncagkwncfapchfegakcwghcpqcnws
pjhz-zsxxy,cfapcmqibgakcS.fcnqcsfncnwscyngifzqjnrcNwsc qqicbwgxp!cFap
ywscygh xdcwfnsycnwscygkwncqmcgn!rrrcQ,czjncdqj’xxcas.sickjsyycowfncws
hfesychscosficaqo!”

Ywscziqescqjncganqcfc sfxcqmcxfjkwnsicfapckxfabspcfncwsicwjyzfap,cowqys
fphgigakcfapcwf  dcsdsycwfpczssacofapsigakcmiqhcwsicpisyycnqcwsicmfbs
fapcwfgircNwscnoqcfjanycxfjkwspcwsfingxdcnqq,cmqicKfzigsx’ycyqxgbgnjps
ofycfcynfapgakcuqescognwcnwshr

“Kqxqywsy!”cyfgpcHiycBqaiqdrc“Nwfn’ycnwscxfnsynrcOwsas.sicgn’ycosn
japsimqqncGchjync jncqachdckqxqywsyrcNqagkwncs.sacwscofanspchscnqc jn
nwshcqa,czjncGcoqjxpa’nrcNwscastncnwgakcws’xxczjdchscogxxczscfcpg.gak
yjgnr”

Kfzigsxcxfjkwspcasi.qjyxdcfapc fnnspcwgycngscisfyyjigakxdcowgxscFjan
Efnscasfixdcpqjzxspcwsiysxm,cyqcwsfingxdcpgpcywscsauqdcnwscuqesrcNws
yhgxscyqqacmfpspcmiqhcFjancUjxgf’ycmfbscfapcwsichginwxsyycsdsycosis
pgisbnspcnqofipycwsicas wso’ycmfbsrcFmnsicfc fjyscywscfyesp:

“Fapcowfncfisckqxqywsy,cKfzigsx?”

“Kqxqywsy,cUjxgf!”cstbxfghspcwsicygynsic“Kqqpasyychs,cpqa’ncdqjceaqo
owfnckqxqywsycfis?cDqjcosficnwshcq.sicdqjicrrrcq.sicdqjiczqqny,cKisnnf,
gya’ncgn?”

“Dsy,”cyfgpcHiycBqaiqdrc“Kjnnf sibwfcnwgakyrcOsczqnwcwf.scfc fgicaqor
Kfzigsxcyfdycs.sidqascosfiycnwshcqacnwscbqangasanr”

“Q,cqacnwscbqangasan,”chjihjispcFjancUjxgf,caqppgakcwsicwsfpcyxqoxdr

Kfzigsxceagnnspcwgycziqoycfapcyfgp,cfycgmcwscosiscyxgkwnxdcfaksisp:

“Gn’ycaqnwgakc.sidcoqapsimjxczjncKisnnfcnwgaeycgnc.sidcmjaadczsbfjys
ywscyfdycnwscoqipcishgapycwsicqmcBwigyndcHgaynisxyr”

“Zjncnsxxchs,cKfzigsx,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,cognwczigyecnfbnrc“Qmcbqjiys,
dqj’.scyssacfzqjncnwsciqqhrcKisnnfcofycyfdgakrrrr”

“Q,cnwsciqqhcgycfxxcigkwn,”cis xgspcKfzigsxrc“G’.scnfesacqascgacnws
Kisywfhr”

“Nqczscyjis,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,c“zdcmficnwsczsyncnwgakcnqcpqrcFapcnws
bwgxpisa,cKisnnf,cdqj’iscaqncfatgqjycfzqjncnwsh?”

“Q,cmqicqascagkwn,”cyfgpcHiycBqaiqdrc“Zsygpsy,cZsyygscogxxcxqqecfmnsi
nwshr”

“Nqczscyjis,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscfkfgarc“Owfncfcbqhmqincgncgycnqcwf.scf
kgixcxgescnwfn,cqascdqjcbfacps sapcqa!cNwsis’ycnwfncXgxd,cG’hcyjiscG
pqa’nceaqocowfncwfycbqhscq.sicwsicxfnsxdrcYws’ycaqncnwsckgixcywscofycfn
fxxr”

Kfzigsxcofycfzqjncnqcfyecwgycfjancyqhscljsyngqaycqacnwgyc qganczjncyws
ziqescqmmcyjppsaxdcnqckfvscfmnsicwsicygynsicowqcwfpcofapsispcpqoacnws
ynfgiycfapcofycbifagakcwsicasbecq.sicnwsczfagynsiyr

“Aqo,cGcfyecdqj,”cywscyfgpcfxhqyncnsyngxd,c“owsiscgycUjxgfckqgak?
Ujxgf!cUjxgf!cOwsiscfiscdqjckqgak?”

Ujxgf,cowqcwfpckqascwfxmcofdcpqoacqascmxgkwn,cbfhsczfbecfapcfaaqjabsp
zxfapxd:

“Wsis’ycMisppdr”

Fncnwscyfhschqhsancfcbxf  gakcqmcwfapycfapcfcmgafxcmxqjigywcqmcnws
 gfagyncnqxpcnwfncnwscofxnvcwfpcsapsprcNwscpifogak-iqqhcpqqicofycq sasp
miqhcognwgacfapcyqhscbqj xsycbfhscqjnrcFjancEfnscpisocKfzigsxcfygps
wjiigspxdcfapcowgy sispcganqcwgycsfi:

“Yxg cpqoa,cKfzigsx,cxgescfckqqpcmsxxqocfapcysscgmcws’ycfxxcigkwn,cfap
pqa’ncxsncwghcj cgmcws’ycybisosprcG’hcyjiscws’ycybisosprcG’hcyjiscws
gyr”

Kfzigsxcosancnqcnwscynfgiycfapcxgynsaspcq.sicnwsczfagynsiyrcWscbqjxp
wsficnoqc siyqaycnfxegakcgacnwsc fanidrcNwsacwscisbqkagyspcMisppd
Hfxgay’cxfjkwrcWscosancpqoacnwscynfgiycaqgygxdr

“Gn’ycyjbwcfcisxgsm,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscnqcHiycBqaiqd,c“nwfncKfzigsxcgy
wsisrcGcfxofdycmssxcsfygsicgachdchgapcowsacws’ycwsisrrrrcUjxgf,cnwsis’y
HgyycPfxdcfapcHgyyc qosicogxxcnfescyqhscismisywhsanrcNwfaeycmqicdqji
zsfjngmjxcofxnv,cHgyycPfxdrcGnchfpscxq.sxdcnghsr”

Fcnfxxcogvsa-mfbspchfa,cognwcfcyngmmckigvvxspchqjynfbwscfapcyofinwd
yega,cowqcofyc fyygakcqjncognwcwgyc finasicyfgp:

“Fapchfdcoscwf.scyqhscismisywhsan,cnqq,cHgyycHqiefa?”

“Ujxgf,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscyjhhfigxd,c“fapcwsis’ycHicZiqoascfapcHgyy
MjixqakrcNfescnwshcga,cUjxgf,cognwcHgyycPfxdcfapcHgyyc qosir”

“G’hcnwschfacmqicnwscxfpgsy,”cyfgpcHicZiqoas,c jiygakcwgycxg ycjangx
wgychqjynfbwsczigynxspcfapcyhgxgakcgacfxxcwgycoigaexsyrc“Dqjceaqo,cHgyy
Hqiefa,cnwscisfyqacnwsdcfiscyqcmqapcqmchscgy——”

Wscpgpcaqncmgagywcwgycysansabs,czjn,cyssgakcnwfncFjancEfnscofycqjncqm
sfiywqn,cfncqabscxspcnwscnwisscdqjakcxfpgsycganqcnwsczfbeciqqhrcNws
hgppxscqmcnwsciqqhcofycqbbj gspczdcnoqcyljfiscnfzxsyc xfbspcsapcnqcsap,
fapcqacnwsyscFjancUjxgfcfapcnwscbfisnfesicosiscynifgkwnsagakcfap
yhqqnwgakcfcxfikscbxqnwrcQacnwscygpszqfipcosiscfiifdspcpgywsycfap
 xfnsy,cfapckxfyysycfapczjapxsycqmceag.sycfapcmqieycfapcy qqayrcNwscnq 
qmcnwscbxqyspcyljfisc gfaqcysi.spcfxyqcfycfcygpszqfipcmqic.gfapycfap
yossnyrcFncfcyhfxxsicygpszqfipcgacqascbqiasicnoqcdqjakchsacosis
ynfapgak,cpigaegakcwq -zgnnsiyr

HicZiqoascxspcwgycbwfiksycnwgnwsicfapcga.gnspcnwshcfxx,cgacusyn,cnq
yqhscxfpgsy’c jabw,cwqn,cyniqakcfapcyossnrcFycnwsdcyfgpcnwsdcas.sicnqqe
fadnwgakcyniqakcwscq saspcnwissczqnnxsycqmcxshqafpscmqicnwshrcNwsacws
fyespcqascqmcnwscdqjakchsacnqchq.scfygps,cfap,cnfegakcwqxpcqmcnws
psbfansi,cmgxxspcqjncmqicwghysxmcfckqqpxdchsfyjiscqmcowgyedrcNwscdqjak
hsacsdspcwghcisy sbnmjxxdcowgxscwscnqqecfcnigfxcyg r

“Kqpcwsx chs,”cwscyfgp,cyhgxgak,c“gn’ycnwscpqbnqi’ycqipsiyr”

Wgycogvsaspcmfbscziqescganqcfcziqfpsicyhgxs,cfapcnwscnwisscdqjakcxfpgsy
xfjkwspcgachjygbfxcsbwqcnqcwgyc xsfyfanid,cyofdgakcnwsgiczqpgsycnqcfap
miq,cognwcasi.qjycusieycqmcnwsgicywqjxpsiyrcNwsczqxpsyncyfgp:

“Q,caqo,cHicZiqoas,cG’hcyjiscnwscpqbnqicas.sicqipsispcfadnwgakcqmcnws
egapr”

HicZiqoascnqqecfaqnwsicyg cqmcwgycowgyedcfapcyfgp,cognwcygpxgak
hghgbid:

“Osxx,cdqjcyss,cG’hcxgescnwscmfhqjycHiycBfyygpd,cowqcgycis qinspcnq
wf.scyfgp:c‘Aqo,cHfidcKighsy,cgmcGcpqa’ncnfescgn,chfeschscnfescgn,cmqi
GcmssxcGcofancgnr’”

Wgycwqncmfbscwfpcxsfaspcmqiofipcfcxgnnxscnqqcbqamgpsangfxxdcfapcwscwfp
fyyjhspcfc.sidcxqocPjzxgacfbbsancyqcnwfncnwscdqjakcxfpgsy,cognwcqas
gayngabn,cisbsg.spcwgycy ssbwcgacygxsabsrcHgyycMjixqak,cowqcofycqascqm
HfidcUfas’yc j gxy,cfyespcHgyycPfxdcowfncofycnwscafhscqmcnwsc isnnd
ofxnvcywscwfpc xfdsp;cfapcHicZiqoas,cyssgakcnwfncwscofycgkaqisp,cnjiasp
 iqh nxdcnqcnwscnoqcdqjakchsacowqcosischqiscf  isbgfng.sr

Fcisp-mfbspcdqjakcoqhfa,cpisyyspcgac fayd,cbfhscganqcnwsciqqh,
stbgnspxdcbxf  gakcwsicwfapycfapcbidgak:

“Ljfpigxxsy!cLjfpigxxsy!”

BxqyscqacwsicwssxycbfhscFjancEfns,cbidgak:

“Noqcksanxshsacfapcnwisscxfpgsy,cHfidcUfas!”

“Q,cwsis’ycHicZsikgacfapcHicEsiigkfa,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasrc“HicEsiigkfa,
ogxxcdqjcnfescHgyyc qosi?cHgyycMjixqak,chfdcGcksncdqjcfc finasi,cHi
ZsikgarcQ,cnwfn’xxcujyncpqcaqor”

“Nwisscxfpgsy,cHfidcUfas,”cyfgpcFjancEfnsr

Nwscnoqcdqjakcksanxshsacfyespcnwscxfpgsycgmcnwsdchgkwncwf.scnws
 xsfyjis,cfapcHfidcUfascnjiaspcnqcHgyycPfxdr

“Q,cHgyycPfxd,cdqj’iscisfxxdcfomjxxdckqqp,cfmnsic xfdgakcmqicnwscxfyn
noqcpfabsy,czjncisfxxdcos’iscyqcywqincqmcxfpgsycnqagkwnr”

“Gcpqa’nchgapcgacnwscxsfyn,cHgyycHqiefar”

“ZjncG’.scfcagbsc finasicmqicdqj,cHicZfinsxxcP’Fibd,cnwscnsaqircG’xx
ksncwghcnqcygakcxfnsicqarcFxxcPjzxgacgycif.gakcfzqjncwghr”

“Xq.sxdc.qgbs,cxq.sxdc.qgbs!”cyfgpcFjancEfnsr

Fycnwsc gfaqcwfpcnogbsczskjacnwsc isxjpscnqcnwscmgiyncmgkjiscHfidcUfas
xspcwsicisbijgnycljgbexdcmiqhcnwsciqqhrcNwsdcwfpcwfipxdckqascowsacFjan
Ujxgfcofapsispcyxqoxdcganqcnwsciqqh,cxqqegakczswgapcwsicfncyqhsnwgakr

“Owfncgycnwschfnnsi,cUjxgf?”cfyespcFjancEfnscfatgqjyxdrc“Owqcgycgn?”

Ujxgf,cowqcofycbfiidgakcgacfcbqxjhacqmcnfzxs-af egay,cnjiaspcnqcwsi
ygynsicfapcyfgp,cygh xd,cfycgmcnwscljsyngqacwfpcyji igyspcwsi:

“Gn’ycqaxdcMisppd,cEfns,cfapcKfzigsxcognwcwghr”

GacmfbncigkwnczswgapcwsicKfzigsxcbqjxpczscyssac gxqngakcMisppdcHfxgay
fbiqyycnwscxfapgakrcNwscxfnnsi,cfcdqjakchfacqmcfzqjncmqind,cofycqm
Kfzigsx’ycygvscfapczjgxp,cognwc.sidciqjapcywqjxpsiyrcWgycmfbscofy
mxsywdcfapc fxxgp,cnqjbwspcognwcbqxqjicqaxdcfncnwscnwgbecwfakgakcxqzsy
qmcwgycsfiycfapcfncnwscogpscogakycqmcwgycaqysrcWscwfpcbqfiyscmsfnjisy,
fczxjancaqys,cfcbqa.stcfapcisbspgakcziqo,cnjhgpcfapc iqnijpspcxg yrcWgy
wsf.d-xgppspcsdsycfapcnwscpgyqipsicqmcwgycybfandcwfgichfpscwghcxqqe
yxss drcWscofycxfjkwgakcwsfingxdcgacfcwgkwcesdcfncfcynqidcowgbwcwscwfp
zssacnsxxgakcKfzigsxcqacnwscynfgiycfapcfncnwscyfhscnghscijzzgakcnws
eajbexsycqmcwgycxsmncmgynczfbeofipycfapcmqiofipycganqcwgycxsmncsdsr

“Kqqp-s.sagak,cMisppd,”cyfgpcFjancUjxgfr

MisppdcHfxgayczfpscnwscHgyysycHqiefackqqp-s.sagakcgacowfncysshspcfa
qmmwfapcmfywgqaczdcisfyqacqmcnwscwfzgnjfxcbfnbwcgacwgyc.qgbscfapcnwsa,
yssgakcnwfncHicZiqoascofyckigaagakcfncwghcmiqhcnwscygpszqfip,cbiqyysp
nwsciqqhcqacifnwsicywfedcxskycfapczskfacnqcis sfncgacfacjapsinqascnws
ynqidcwscwfpcujyncnqxpcnqcKfzigsxr

“Ws’ycaqncyqczfp,cgycws?”cyfgpcFjancEfnscnqcKfzigsxr

Kfzigsx’ycziqoycosiscpfieczjncwscifgyspcnwshcljgbexdcfapcfayosisp:

“Q,caq,cwfipxdcaqngbsfzxsr”

“Aqo,cgya’ncwscfcnsiigzxscmsxxqo!”cywscyfgprc“Fapcwgyc qqichqnwsichfps
wghcnfescnwsc xspkscqacAsocDsfi’ycS.srcZjncbqhscqa,cKfzigsx,cganqcnws
pifogak-iqqhr”

Zsmqiscxsf.gakcnwsciqqhcognwcKfzigsxcywscygkafxxspcnqcHicZiqoasczd
miqoagakcfapcywfegakcwsicmqismgaksicgacofiagakcnqcfapcmiqrcHicZiqoas
aqppspcgacfayosicfap,cowsacywscwfpckqas,cyfgpcnqcMisppdcHfxgay:

“Aqo,cnwsa,cNsppd,cG’hckqgakcnqcmgxxcdqjcqjncfckqqpckxfyycqmcxshqafps
ujyncnqczjbecdqjcj r”

MisppdcHfxgay,cowqcofycasfigakcnwscbxghftcqmcwgycynqid,cof.spcnwscqmmsi
fygpscgh fngsanxdczjncHicZiqoas,cwf.gakcmgiyncbfxxspcMisppdcHfxgay’
fnnsangqacnqcfcpgyfiifdcgacwgycpisyy,cmgxxspcqjncfapcwfapspcwghcfcmjxx
kxfyycqmcxshqafpsrcMisppdcHfxgay’cxsmncwfapcfbbs nspcnwsckxfyy
hsbwfagbfxxd,cwgycigkwncwfapczsgakcsakfkspcgacnwschsbwfagbfx
isfpujynhsancqmcwgycpisyyrcHicZiqoas,cowqyscmfbscofycqabschqis
oigaexgakcognwchginw,c qjispcqjncmqicwghysxmcfckxfyycqmcowgyedcowgxs
MisppdcHfxgaycst xqpsp,czsmqiscwscwfpcosxxcisfbwspcnwscbxghftcqmcwgy
ynqid,cgacfcegaecqmcwgkw- gnbwspcziqabwgngbcxfjkwnsicfap,cysnngakcpqoa
wgycjanfynspcfapcq.simxqogakckxfyy,czskfacnqcijzcnwsceajbexsycqmcwgy
xsmncmgynczfbeofipycfapcmqiofipycganqcwgycxsmncsds,cis sfngakcoqipycqm
wgycxfync wifyscfycosxxcfycwgycmgncqmcxfjkwnsicoqjxpcfxxqocwghr



KfzigsxcbqjxpcaqncxgynsacowgxscHfidcUfascofyc xfdgakcwsicFbfpshdc gsbs,
mjxxcqmcijaycfapcpgmmgbjxnc fyyfksy,cnqcnwscwjywspcpifogak-iqqhrcWs
xgespchjygbczjncnwsc gsbscywscofyc xfdgakcwfpcaqchsxqpdcmqicwghcfapcws
pqjznspcowsnwsicgncwfpcfadchsxqpdcmqicnwscqnwsicxgynsasiy,cnwqjkwcnwsd
wfpczskkspcHfidcUfascnqc xfdcyqhsnwgakrcMqjicdqjakchsa,cowqcwfpcbqhs
miqhcnwscismisywhsan-iqqhcnqcynfapcgacnwscpqqiofdcfncnwscyqjapcqmcnws
 gfaq,cwfpckqascfofdcljgsnxdcgacbqj xsycfmnsicfcmsochgajnsyrcNwscqaxd
 siyqaycowqcysshspcnqcmqxxqocnwschjygbcosiscHfidcUfascwsiysxm,cwsi
wfapycifbgakcfxqakcnwscesdzqfipcqicxgmnspcmiqhcgncfncnwsc fjysycxges
nwqyscqmcfc igsynsyycgachqhsanfidcgh isbfngqa,cfapcFjancEfnscynfapgak
fncwsicsxzqocnqcnjiacnwsc fksr

Kfzigsx’ycsdsy,cgiignfnspczdcnwscmxqqi,cowgbwckxgnnsispcognwczssyoft
japsicnwscwsf.dcbwfapsxgsi,cofapsispcnqcnwscofxxcfzq.scnwsc gfaqrcF
 gbnjiscqmcnwsczfxbqadcybsascgac_IqhsqcfapcUjxgsn_cwjakcnwsiscfap
zsygpscgncofycfc gbnjiscqmcnwscnoqchjipsispc igabsycgacnwscNqosicowgbw
FjancUjxgfcwfpcoqiespcgacisp,czxjscfapcziqoacoqqxycowsacywscofycfckgixr
 iqzfzxdcgacnwscybwqqxcnwsdcwfpckqascnqcfyckgixycnwfncegapcqmcoqiecwfp
zssacnfjkwncmqicqascdsfircWgychqnwsicwfpcoqiespcmqicwghcfycfczginwpfd
 isysancfcofgynbqfncqmc ji xscnfzgasn,cognwcxgnnxscmqtsy’cwsfpycj qa
gn,cxgaspcognwcziqoacyfngacfapcwf.gakciqjapchjxzsiidczjnnqayrcGncofy
ynifakscnwfncwgychqnwsicwfpcwfpcaqchjygbfxcnfxsancnwqjkwcFjancEfnscjysp
nqcbfxxcwsicnwsczifgaycbfiigsicqmcnwscHqiefacmfhgxdrcZqnwcywscfapcUjxgf
wfpcfxofdycysshspcfcxgnnxsc iqjpcqmcnwsgicysigqjycfapchfniqaxdcygynsir
Wsic wqnqkif wcynqqpczsmqiscnwsc gsikxfyyrcYwscwsxpcfacq saczqqecqacwsi
eassycfapcofyc qgangakcqjncyqhsnwgakcgacgncnqcBqaynfangascowq,cpisyysp
gacfchfa-q’-oficyjgn,cxfdcfncwsicmssnrcGncofycywscowqcwfpcbwqysacnws
afhscqmcwsicyqaycmqicywscofyc.sidcysaygzxscqmcnwscpgkagndcqmcmfhgxd
xgmsrcNwfaeycnqcwsi,cBqaynfangascofycaqocysagqicbjifnscgacZfxzigkfa
fap,cnwfaeycnqcwsi,cKfzigsxcwghysxmcwfpcnfesacwgycpskisscgacnwscIqdfx
Jag.siygndrcFcywfpqoc fyyspcq.sicwgycmfbscfycwscishshzsispcwsicyjxxsa
q  qygngqacnqcwgychfiigfksrcYqhscyxgkwngakc wifysycywscwfpcjyspcyngxx
ifaexspcgacwgychshqid;cywscwfpcqabscy qesacqmcKisnnfcfyczsgakcbqjanid
bjnscfapcnwfncofycaqncnijscqmcKisnnfcfncfxxrcGncofycKisnnfcowqcwfp
ajiyspcwsicpjigakcfxxcwsicxfyncxqakcgxxasyycgacnwsgicwqjyscfn
Hqaeynqoar

WsceasocnwfncHfidcUfaschjynczscasficnwscsapcqmcwsic gsbscmqicywscofy
 xfdgakcfkfgacnwscq sagakchsxqpdcognwcijaycqmcybfxsycfmnsics.sidczfi
fapcowgxscwscofgnspcmqicnwscsapcnwscisysanhsancpgspcpqoacgacwgycwsfinr
Nwsc gsbscsapspcognwcfcnigxxcqmcqbnf.sycgacnwscniszxscfapcfcmgafxcpss 
qbnf.scgacnwsczfyyrcKisfncf  xfjysckissnspcHfidcUfascfy,czxjywgakcfap
iqxxgakcj cwsichjygbcasi.qjyxd,cywscsybf spcmiqhcnwsciqqhrcNwschqyn
.gkqiqjycbxf  gakcbfhscmiqhcnwscmqjicdqjakchsacgacnwscpqqiofdcowqcwfp
kqascfofdcnqcnwscismisywhsan-iqqhcfncnwsczskgaagakcqmcnwsc gsbsczjncwfp
bqhsczfbecowsacnwsc gfaqcwfpcynq  spr

XfabsiycosiscfiifaksprcKfzigsxcmqjapcwghysxmc finasispcognwcHgyycG.qiyr
Ywscofycfcmifae-hfaasispcnfxefng.scdqjakcxfpd,cognwcfcmisbexspcmfbscfap
 iqhgasancziqoacsdsyrcYwscpgpcaqncosficfcxqo-bjnczqpgbscfapcnwscxfiks
ziqqbwcowgbwcofycmgtspcgacnwscmiqancqmcwsicbqxxficzqiscqacgncfacGigyw
ps.gbscfapchqnnqr

Owsacnwsdcwfpcnfesacnwsgic xfbsycywscyfgpcfzij nxd:

“Gcwf.scfcbiqocnqc xjbecognwcdqjr”

“Ognwchs?”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

Ywscaqppspcwsicwsfpckif.sxdr

“Owfncgycgn?”cfyespcKfzigsx,cyhgxgakcfncwsicyqxshachfaasir

“OwqcgycKrcBr?”cfayosispcHgyycG.qiy,cnjiagakcwsicsdsycj qacwghr

Kfzigsxcbqxqjispcfapcofycfzqjncnqceagncwgycziqoy,cfycgmcwscpgpcaqn
japsiynfap,cowsacywscyfgpczxjanxd:

“Q,cgaaqbsancFhd!cGcwf.scmqjapcqjncnwfncdqjcoignscmqic_NwscPfgxd
St isyy_rcAqo,cfisa’ncdqjcfywfhspcqmcdqjiysxm?”

“OwdcywqjxpcGczscfywfhspcqmchdysxm?”cfyespcKfzigsx,czxgaegakcwgycsdsy
fapcnidgakcnqcyhgxsr

“Osxx,cG’hcfywfhspcqmcdqj,”cyfgpcHgyycG.qiycmifaexdrc“Nqcyfdcdqj’p
oignscmqicfc f sicxgescnwfnrcGcpgpa’ncnwgaecdqjcosiscfcOsyncZignqar”

Fcxqqecqmc si xstgndcf  sfispcqacKfzigsx’ycmfbsrcGncofycnijscnwfncws
oiqnscfcxgnsifidcbqxjhacs.sidcOspasypfdcgac_NwscPfgxdcSt isyy_,cmqi
owgbwcwscofyc fgpcmgmnssacywgxxgakyrcZjncnwfncpgpcaqnchfescwghcfcOsyn
ZignqacyjisxdrcNwsczqqeycwscisbsg.spcmqicis.gsocosiscfxhqynchqis
osxbqhscnwfacnwsc fxnidcbwsljsrcWscxq.spcnqcmssxcnwscbq.siycfapcnjia
q.sicnwsc fksycqmcasoxdc iganspczqqeyrcAsfixdcs.sidcpfdcowsacwgy
nsfbwgakcgacnwscbqxxskscofycsapspcwscjyspcnqcofapsicpqoacnwscljfdycnq
nwscysbqap-wfapczqqeysxxsiy,cnqcWgbesd’ycqacZfbwsxqi’ycOfxe,cnqcOszz’y
qicHfyysd’ycqacFynqa’ycLjfd,cqicnqcQ’Bxqwgyysd’ycgacnwsczd-ynissnrcWs
pgpcaqnceaqocwqocnqchssncwsicbwfiksrcWscofanspcnqcyfdcnwfncxgnsifnjis
ofycfzq.sc qxgngbyrcZjncnwsdcosiscmigsapycqmchfadcdsfiy’cynfapgakcfap
nwsgicbfissiycwfpczssac fifxxsx,cmgiyncfncnwscjag.siygndcfapcnwsacfy
nsfbwsiy:cwscbqjxpcaqncigyecfckifapgqysc wifyscognwcwsircWscbqangajsp
zxgaegakcwgycsdsycfapcnidgakcnqcyhgxscfapchjihjispcxfhsxdcnwfncwscyfo
aqnwgakc qxgngbfxcgacoigngakcis.gsoycqmczqqeyr

Owsacnwsgicnjiacnqcbiqyycwfpcbqhscwscofycyngxxc si xstspcfap
gafnnsang.srcHgyycG.qiyc iqh nxdcnqqecwgycwfapcgacfcofihckify cfapcyfgp
gacfcyqmncmigsapxdcnqas:

“Qmcbqjiys,cGcofycqaxdcuqegakrcBqhs,coscbiqyycaqor”

Owsacnwsdcosiscnqksnwsicfkfgacywscy qescqmcnwscJag.siygndcljsyngqacfap
KfzigsxcmsxnchqiscfncsfysrcFcmigsapcqmcwsiycwfpcywqoacwsicwgycis.gsocqm
Ziqoagak’yc qshyrcNwfncofycwqocywscwfpcmqjapcqjncnwscysbisn:czjncyws
xgespcnwscis.gsocghhsaysxdrcNwsacywscyfgpcyjppsaxd:

“Q,cHicBqaiqd,cogxxcdqjcbqhscmqicfacstbjiygqacnqcnwscFifacGyxsycnwgy
yjhhsi?cOs’isckqgakcnqcynfdcnwsiscfcowqxschqanwrcGncogxxczscy xsapgp
qjncgacnwscFnxfangbrcDqjcqjkwncnqcbqhsrcHicBxfabdcgycbqhgak,cfapcHi
EgxesxxdcfapcEfnwxssacEsfiasdrcGncoqjxpczscy xsapgpcmqicKisnnfcnqqcgm
yws’pcbqhsrcYws’ycmiqhcBqaafbwn,cgya’ncyws?”

“Wsic sq xscfis,”cyfgpcKfzigsxcywqinxdr

“Zjncdqjcogxxcbqhs,coqa’ncdqj?”cyfgpcHgyycG.qiy,cxfdgakcwsicofihcwfap
sfksixdcqacwgycfihr

“Nwscmfbncgy,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“Gcwf.scujyncfiifakspcnqckq——”

“Kqcowsis?”cfyespcHgyycG.qiyr

“Osxx,cdqjceaqo,cs.sidcdsficGckqcmqicfcbdbxgakcnqjicognwcyqhscmsxxqoy
fapcyq——”

“Zjncowsis?”cfyespcHgyycG.qiyr

“Osxx,coscjyjfxxdckqcnqcMifabscqicZsxkgjhcqic siwf ycKsihfad,”cyfgp
Kfzigsxcfoeofipxdr

“FapcowdcpqcdqjckqcnqcMifabscfapcZsxkgjh,”cyfgpcHgyycG.qiy,c“gaynsfpcqm
.gygngakcdqjicqoacxfap?”

“Osxx,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“gn’yc finxdcnqcess cgacnqjbwcognwcnwscxfakjfksy
fapc finxdcmqicfcbwfaksr”

“Fapcwf.sa’ncdqjcdqjicqoacxfakjfkscnqcess cgacnqjbwcognw—Gigyw?”cfyesp
HgyycG.qiyr

“Osxx,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“gmcgncbqhsycnqcnwfn,cdqjceaqo,cGigywcgycaqnchd
xfakjfksr”

Nwsgicasgkwzqjiycwfpcnjiaspcnqcxgynsacnqcnwscbiqyy-stfhgafngqarcKfzigsx
kxfabspcigkwncfapcxsmncasi.qjyxdcfapcnigspcnqcess cwgyckqqpcwjhqji
japsicnwscqipsfxcowgbwcofychfegakcfczxjywcga.fpscwgycmqiswsfpr

“Fapcwf.sa’ncdqjcdqjicqoacxfapcnqc.gygn,”cbqangajspcHgyycG.qiy,c“nwfn
dqjceaqocaqnwgakcqm,cdqjicqoac sq xs,cfapcdqjicqoacbqjanid?”

“Q,cnqcnsxxcdqjcnwscnijnw,”cisnqinspcKfzigsxcyjppsaxd,c“G’hcygbecqmchd
qoacbqjanid,cygbecqmcgn!”

“Owd?”cfyespcHgyycG.qiyr

Kfzigsxcpgpcaqncfayosicmqicwgycisnqincwfpcwsfnspcwghr

“Owd?”cis sfnspcHgyycG.qiyr

Nwsdcwfpcnqckqc.gygngakcnqksnwsicfap,cfycwscwfpcaqncfayosispcwsi,cHgyy
G.qiycyfgpcofihxd:

“Qmcbqjiys,cdqj’.scaqcfayosir”

Kfzigsxcnigspcnqcbq.sicwgycfkgnfngqaczdcnfegakc fincgacnwscpfabscognw
kisfncsasikdrcWscf.qgpspcwsicsdsycmqicwscwfpcyssacfcyqjicst isyygqacqa
wsicmfbsrcZjncowsacnwsdchsncgacnwscxqakcbwfgacwscofycyji igyspcnqcmssx
wgycwfapcmgihxdc isyysprcYwscxqqespcfncwghcmiqhcjapsicwsicziqoycmqicf
hqhsancljgvvgbfxxdcjangxcwscyhgxsprcNwsa,cujyncfycnwscbwfgacofycfzqjn
nqcynfincfkfga,cywscynqqpcqacng nqscfapcowgy sispcganqcwgycsfi:

“OsyncZignqa!”

Owsacnwscxfabsiycosiscq.sicKfzigsxcosancfofdcnqcfcishqnscbqiasicqmcnws
iqqhcowsiscMisppdcHfxgay’chqnwsicofycygnngakrcYwscofycfcynqjncmsszxs
qxpcoqhfacognwcowgnscwfgircWsic.qgbscwfpcfcbfnbwcgacgncxgescwsicyqa’y
fapcywscynjnnsispcyxgkwnxdrcYwscwfpczssacnqxpcnwfncMisppdcwfpcbqhscfap
nwfncwscofycasfixdcfxxcigkwnrcKfzigsxcfyespcwsicowsnwsicywscwfpcwfpcf
kqqpcbiqyygakrcYwscxg.spcognwcwsichfiigspcpfjkwnsicgacKxfykqocfapcbfhs
nqcPjzxgacqacfc.gygncqabscfcdsfircYwscfayosispc xfbgpxdcnwfncywscwfp
wfpcfczsfjngmjxcbiqyygakcfapcnwfncnwscbf nfgacwfpczssachqyncfnnsang.s
nqcwsircYwscy qescfxyqcqmcnwsczsfjngmjxcwqjyscwsicpfjkwnsices ncga
Kxfykqo,cfapcqmcfxxcnwscmigsapycnwsdcwfpcnwsisrcOwgxscwsicnqakjs
ifhzxspcqacKfzigsxcnigspcnqczfagywcmiqhcwgychgapcfxxchshqidcqmcnws
ja xsfyfancgabgpsancognwcHgyycG.qiyrcQmcbqjiyscnwsckgixcqicoqhfa,cqi
owfns.sicywscofy,cofycfacsanwjygfynczjncnwsiscofycfcnghscmqicfxx
nwgakyrc siwf ycwscqjkwncaqncnqcwf.scfayosispcwsicxgescnwfnrcZjncyws
wfpcaqcigkwncnqcbfxxcwghcfcOsyncZignqaczsmqisc sq xs,cs.sacgacuqesrcYws
wfpcnigspcnqchfescwghcigpgbjxqjyczsmqisc sq xs,cwsbexgakcwghcfap
ynfigakcfncwghcognwcwsicifzzgn’ycsdsyr

Wscyfocwgycogmschfegakcwsicofdcnqofipycwghcnwiqjkwcnwscofxnvgak
bqj xsyrcOwsacywscisfbwspcwghcywscyfgpcganqcwgycsfi:

“Kfzigsx,cFjancEfnscofanycnqceaqocoqa’ncdqjcbfi.scnwsckqqyscfycjyjfxr
HgyycPfxdcogxxcbfi.scnwscwfhcfapcG’xxcpqcnwsc jppgakr”

“Fxxcigkwn,”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

“Yws’ycysapgakcgacnwscdqjaksicqasycmgiyncfycyqqacfycnwgycofxnvcgycq.si
yqcnwfncos’xxcwf.scnwscnfzxscnqcqjiysx.syr”

“Osiscdqjcpfabgak?”cfyespcKfzigsxr

“QmcbqjiyscGcofyrcPgpa’ncdqjcysschs?cOwfnciqocwfpcdqjcognwcHqxxd
G.qiy?”

“AqciqorcOwd?cPgpcywscyfdcyq?”

“YqhsnwgakcxgescnwfnrcG’hcnidgakcnqcksncnwfncHicP’FibdcnqcygakrcWs’y
mjxxcqmcbqabsgn,cGcnwgaer”

“Nwsiscofycaqciqo,”cyfgpcKfzigsxchqqpgxd,c“qaxdcywscofanspchscnqckqcmqi
fcnig cnqcnwscosyncqmcGisxfapcfapcGcyfgpcGcoqjxpa’nr”

Wgycogmscbxfy spcwsicwfapycstbgnspxdcfapckf.scfcxgnnxscujh r

“Q,cpqckq,cKfzigsx,”cywscbigsprc“G’pcxq.scnqcysscKfxofdcfkfgar”

“Dqjcbfackqcgmcdqjcxges,”cyfgpcKfzigsxcbqxpxdr

Ywscxqqespcfncwghcmqicfchqhsan,cnwsacnjiaspcnqcHiycHfxgaycfapcyfgp:

“Nwsis’ycfcagbscwjyzfapcmqicdqj,cHiycHfxgayr”

OwgxscywscofycnwisfpgakcwsicofdczfbecfbiqyycnwsciqqhcHiycHfxgay,
ognwqjncfp.singakcnqcnwscgansiij ngqa,cosancqacnqcnsxxcKfzigsxcowfn
zsfjngmjxc xfbsycnwsiscosiscgacYbqnxfapcfapczsfjngmjxcybsasidrcWsi
yqa-ga-xfocziqjkwncnwshcs.sidcdsficnqcnwscxfesycfapcnwsdcjyspcnqckq
mgywgakrcWsicyqa-ga-xfocofycfcy xsapgpcmgywsircQascpfdcwscbfjkwncf
zsfjngmjxczgkcmgywcfapcnwschfacgacnwscwqnsxcbqqespcgncmqicnwsgicpgaasir

KfzigsxcwfipxdcwsfipcowfncywscyfgprcAqocnwfncyj  sicofycbqhgakcasficws
zskfacnqcnwgaecfkfgacfzqjncwgycy ssbwcfapcfzqjncnwscljqnfngqarcOwsacws
yfocMisppdcHfxgaycbqhgakcfbiqyycnwsciqqhcnqc.gygncwgychqnwsicKfzigsx
xsmncnwscbwfgicmisscmqicwghcfapcisngispcganqcnwscshzifyjiscqmcnws
ogapqorcNwsciqqhcwfpcfxisfpdcbxsfispcfapcmiqhcnwsczfbeciqqhcbfhscnws
bxfnnsicqmc xfnsycfapceag.syrcNwqyscowqcyngxxcishfgaspcgacnws
pifogak-iqqhcysshspcngispcqmcpfabgakcfapcosiscbqa.siygakcljgsnxdcga
xgnnxsckiqj yrcKfzigsx’ycofihcnishzxgakcmgaksiycnf  spcnwscbqxpc fascqm
nwscogapqorcWqocbqqxcgnchjynczscqjnygps!cWqoc xsfyfancgncoqjxpczscnq
ofxecqjncfxqas,cmgiyncfxqakczdcnwscig.sicfapcnwsacnwiqjkwcnwsc fie!cNws
yaqocoqjxpczscxdgakcqacnwsczifabwsycqmcnwscnissycfapcmqihgakcfczigkwn
bf cqacnwscnq cqmcnwscOsxxgaknqacHqajhsanrcWqochjbwchqisc xsfyfancgn
oqjxpczscnwsiscnwfacfncnwscyj  si-nfzxs!

Wscifacq.sicnwscwsfpgakycqmcwgycy ssbw:cGigywcwqy gnfxgnd,cyfp
hshqigsy,cnwscNwisscKifbsy,c figy,cnwscljqnfngqacmiqhcZiqoagakrcWs
is sfnspcnqcwghysxmcfc wifyscwscwfpcoignnsacgacwgycis.gso:c“Qascmssxy
nwfncqascgycxgynsagakcnqcfcnwqjkwn-nqihsanspchjygbr”cHgyycG.qiycwfp
 ifgyspcnwscis.gsorcOfycywscygabsis?cWfpcywscisfxxdcfadcxgmscqmcwsicqoa
zswgapcfxxcwsic iq fkfapgyh?cNwsiscwfpcas.siczssacfadcgxx-mssxgak
zsnossacnwshcjangxcnwfncagkwnrcGncjaasi.spcwghcnqcnwgaecnwfncywscoqjxp
zscfncnwscyj  si-nfzxs,cxqqegakcj cfncwghcowgxscwscy qescognwcwsi
bigngbfxcljgvvgakcsdsyrc siwf ycywscoqjxpcaqnczscyqiidcnqcysscwghcmfgx
gacwgycy ssbwrcFacgpsfcbfhscganqcwgychgapcfapckf.scwghcbqjifksrcWs
oqjxpcyfd,cfxxjpgakcnqcFjancEfnscfapcFjancUjxgf:c“XfpgsycfapcKsanxshsa,
nwscksasifngqacowgbwcgycaqocqacnwscofascfhqakcjychfdcwf.scwfpcgny
mfjxnyczjncmqichdc fincGcnwgaecgncwfpcbsinfgacljfxgngsycqmcwqy gnfxgnd,
qmcwjhqji,cqmcwjhfagnd,cowgbwcnwscasocfapc.sidcysigqjycfap
wd sispjbfnspcksasifngqacnwfncgyckiqogakcj cfiqjapcjycysshycnqchscnq
xfber”c.sidckqqp:cnwfncofycqascmqicHgyycG.qiyrcOwfncpgpcwscbfiscnwfn
wgycfjanycosiscqaxdcnoqcgkaqifancqxpcoqhsa?

FchjihjicgacnwsciqqhcfnnifbnspcwgycfnnsangqarcHicZiqoascofycfp.fabgak
miqhcnwscpqqi,ckfxxfanxdcsybqingakcFjancUjxgf,cowqcxsfaspcj qacwgycfih,
yhgxgakcfapcwfakgakcwsicwsfprcFacgiiskjxfichjyesnidcqmcf  xfjys
sybqinspcwsicfxyqcfycmficfycnwsc gfaqcfapcnwsa,cfycHfidcUfascysfnsp
wsiysxmcqacnwscynqqx,cfapcFjancUjxgf,caqcxqaksicyhgxgak,cwfxmcnjiaspcyq
fycnqc gnbwcwsic.qgbscmfgixdcganqcnwsciqqh,ckifpjfxxdcbsfysprcKfzigsx
isbqkagyspcnwsc isxjpsrcGncofycnwfncqmcfacqxpcyqakcqmcFjan
Ujxgf’y—_FiifdspcmqicnwscZigpfx_rcWsic.qgbs,cyniqakcfapcbxsficgacnqas,
fnnfbespcognwckisfncy gigncnwscijaycowgbwcshzsxxgywcnwscfgicfapcnwqjkw
ywscyfakc.sidcif gpxdcywscpgpcaqnchgyycs.sacnwscyhfxxsyncqmcnwsckifbs
aqnsyrcNqcmqxxqocnwsc.qgbs,cognwqjncxqqegakcfncnwscygaksi’ycmfbs,cofy
nqcmssxcfapcywfiscnwscstbgnshsancqmcyogmncfapcysbjiscmxgkwnrcKfzigsx
f  xfjpspcxqjpxdcognwcfxxcnwscqnwsiycfncnwscbxqyscqmcnwscyqakcfapcxqjp
f  xfjyscofyczqiascgacmiqhcnwscga.gygzxscyj  si-nfzxsrcGncyqjapspcyq
ksajgascnwfncfcxgnnxscbqxqjicynijkkxspcganqcFjancUjxgf’ycmfbscfycyws
zsancnqcis xfbscgacnwschjygb-ynfapcnwscqxpcxsfnwsi-zqjapcyqakzqqecnwfn
wfpcwsicgagngfxycqacnwscbq.sircMisppdcHfxgay,cowqcwfpcxgynsaspcognwcwgy
wsfpc sibwspcygpsofdycnqcwsficwsiczsnnsi,cofycyngxxcf  xfjpgakcowsa
s.sidqascsxyscwfpcbsfyspcfapcnfxegakcfaghfnspxdcnqcwgychqnwsicowq
aqppspcwsicwsfpckif.sxdcfapcyxqoxdcgacfbljgsybsabsrcFncxfyn,cowsacws
bqjxpcbxf caqchqis,cwscynqqpcj cyjppsaxdcfapcwjiigspcfbiqyycnwsciqqhcnq
FjancUjxgfcowqyscwfapcwscysgvspcfapcwsxpcgaczqnwcwgycwfapy,cywfegakcgn
owsacoqipycmfgxspcwghcqicnwscbfnbwcgacwgyc.qgbsc iq.spcnqqchjbwcmqi
wghr

“Gcofycujyncnsxxgakchdchqnwsi,”cwscyfgp,c“Gcas.sicwsfipcdqjcygakcyq
osxx,cas.sircAq,cGcas.sicwsfipcdqjic.qgbscyqckqqpcfycgncgycnqagkwnr
Aqo!cOqjxpcdqjczsxgs.scnwfncaqo?cNwfn’ycnwscnijnwrcJ qachdcoqipcfap
wqaqjicnwfn’ycnwscnijnwrcGcas.sicwsfipcdqjic.qgbscyqjapcyqcmisywcfapcyq
rrrcyqcbxsficfapcmisyw,cas.sir”

FjancUjxgfcyhgxspcziqfpxdcfapchjihjispcyqhsnwgakcfzqjncbqh xghsanycfy
ywscisxsfyspcwsicwfapcmiqhcwgyckify rcHicZiqoascstnsapspcwgycq sacwfap
nqofipycwsicfapcyfgpcnqcnwqyscowqcosiscasficwghcgacnwschfaasicqmcf
ywqohfacganiqpjbgakcfc iqpgkdcnqcfacfjpgsabs:

“HgyycUjxgfcHqiefa,chdcxfnsyncpgybq.sid!”

Wscofycxfjkwgakc.sidcwsfingxdcfncnwgycwghysxmcowsacMisppdcHfxgaycnjiasp
nqcwghcfapcyfgp:

“Osxx,cZiqoas,cgmcdqj’iscysigqjycdqjchgkwnchfescfcoqiyscpgybq.sidrcFxx
GcbfacyfdcgycGcas.sicwsfipcwsicygakcwfxmcyqcosxxcfycxqakcfycGcfhcbqhgak
wsisrcFapcnwfn’ycnwscwqasyncnijnwr”

“AsgnwsicpgpcG,”cyfgpcHicZiqoasrc“Gcnwgaecwsic.qgbscwfyckisfnxd
gh iq.spr”

FjancUjxgfcywijkkspcwsicywqjxpsiycfapcyfgpcognwchssec igps:

“NwgindcdsfiycfkqcGcwfpa’ncfczfpc.qgbscfyc.qgbsyckqr”

“GcqmnsacnqxpcUjxgf,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscsh wfngbfxxd,c“nwfncywscofycygh xd
nwiqoacfofdcgacnwfncbwqgircZjncywscas.sicoqjxpczscyfgpczdchsr”

Ywscnjiaspcfycgmcnqcf  sfxcnqcnwsckqqpcysayscqmcnwscqnwsiycfkfgayncf
ismifbnqidcbwgxpcowgxscFjancUjxgfckfvspcgacmiqancqmcwsi,cfc.fkjscyhgxs
qmcishgagybsabsc xfdgakcqacwsicmfbsr

“Aq,”cbqangajspcFjancEfns,c“ywscoqjxpa’nczscyfgpcqicxspczdcfadqas,
yxf.gakcnwsiscgacnwfncbwqgicagkwncfapcpfd,cagkwncfapcpfdrcYgtcq’bxqbe
qacBwigynhfychqiagak!cFapcfxxcmqicowfn?”

“Osxx,cgya’ncgncmqicnwscwqaqjicqmcKqp,cFjancEfns?”cfyespcHfidcUfas,
nogyngakciqjapcqacnwsc gfaq-ynqqxcfapcyhgxgakr

FjancEfnscnjiaspcmgsibsxdcqacwsicagsbscfapcyfgp:

“GceaqocfxxcfzqjncnwscwqaqjicqmcKqp,cHfidcUfas,czjncGcnwgaecgn’ycaqncfn
fxxcwqaqjifzxscmqicnwsc q scnqcnjiacqjncnwscoqhsacqjncqmcnwscbwqgiy
nwfncwf.scyxf.spcnwsiscfxxcnwsgicxg.sycfapc jncxgnnxscowg  si-yaf  siy
qmczqdycq.sicnwsgicwsfpyrcGcyj  qyscgncgycmqicnwsckqqpcqmcnwscBwjibwcgm
nwsc q scpqsycgnrcZjncgn’ycaqncujyn,cHfidcUfas,cfapcgn’ycaqncigkwnr”

Ywscwfpcoqiespcwsiysxmcganqcfc fyygqacfapcoqjxpcwf.scbqangajspcga
psmsabscqmcwsicygynsicmqicgncofycfcyqiscyjzusbncognwcwsiczjncHfidcUfas,
yssgakcnwfncfxxcnwscpfabsiycwfpcbqhsczfbe,cgansi.saspc fbgmgbfxxd:

“Aqo,cFjancEfns,cdqj’isckg.gakcybfapfxcnqcHicZiqoascowqcgycqmcnwscqnwsi
 siyjfygqar”

FjancEfnscnjiaspcnqcHicZiqoas,cowqcofyckigaagakcfncnwgycfxxjygqacnqcwgy
isxgkgqa,cfapcyfgpcwfyngxd:

“Q,cGcpqa’ncljsyngqacnwsc q s’yczsgakcigkwnrcG’hcqaxdcfcynj gpcqxp
oqhfacfapcGcoqjxpa’nc isyjhscnqcpqcyjbwcfcnwgakrcZjncnwsis’ycyjbwcf
nwgakcfycbqhhqacs.sidpfdc qxgnsasyycfapckifngnjpsrcFapcgmcGcosiscga
Ujxgf’yc xfbscG’pcnsxxcnwfncMfnwsicWsfxsdcynifgkwncj cnqcwgycmfbsrrrr”

“Fapczsygpsy,cFjancEfns,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,c“oscisfxxdcfiscfxxcwjakidcfap
owsacoscfiscwjakidcoscfiscfxxc.sidcljfiisxyqhsr”

“Fapcowsacoscfiscnwgiyndcoscfiscfxyqcljfiisxyqhs,”cfppspcHicZiqoasr

“Yqcnwfncoscwfpczsnnsickqcnqcyj  si,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,c“fapcmgagywcnws
pgybjyygqacfmnsiofipyr”

Qacnwscxfapgakcqjnygpscnwscpifogak-iqqhcKfzigsxcmqjapcwgycogmscfapcHfid
Ufascnidgakcnqc siyjfpscHgyycG.qiycnqcynfdcmqicyj  sircZjncHgyycG.qiy,
owqcwfpc jncqacwsicwfncfapcofyczjnnqagakcwsicbxqfe,coqjxpcaqncynfdrcYws
pgpcaqncmssxcgacnwscxsfyncwjakidcfapcywscwfpcfxisfpdcq.siynfdspcwsi
nghsr

“Zjncqaxdcmqicnsachgajnsy,cHqxxd,”cyfgpcHiycBqaiqdrc“Nwfncoqa’ncpsxfd
dqjr”

“Nqcnfescfc gbecgnysxm,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,c“fmnsicfxxcdqjicpfabgakr”

“Gcisfxxdcbqjxpa’n,”cyfgpcHgyycG.qiyr

“Gcfhcfmifgpcdqjcpgpa’ncsauqdcdqjiysxmcfncfxx,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas
wq sxsyyxdr

“S.sicyqchjbw,cGcfyyjiscdqj,”cyfgpcHgyycG.qiy,c“zjncdqjcisfxxdchjyncxsn
hscijacqmmcaqor”

“Zjncwqocbfacdqjcksncwqhs?”cfyespcHiycBqaiqdr

“Q,cgn’ycqaxdcnoqcyns ycj cnwscljfdr”

Kfzigsxcwsygnfnspcfchqhsancfapcyfgp:

“Gmcdqjcogxxcfxxqochs,cHgyycG.qiy,cG’xxcysscdqjcwqhscgmcdqjcfiscisfxxd
qzxgkspcnqckqr”

ZjncHgyycG.qiycziqescfofdcmiqhcnwshr

“Gcoqa’ncwsficqmcgn,”cywscbigsprc“Mqickqqpasyy’cyfesckqcgacnqcdqji
yj  siycfapcpqa’nchgapchsrcG’hcljgnscosxxcfzxscnqcnfescbfiscqmchdysxmr”

“Osxx,cdqj’iscnwscbqhgbfxckgix,cHqxxd,”cyfgpcHiycBqaiqdcmifaexdr

“_Zsfaafbwncxgzw_,”cbigspcHgyycG.qiy,cognwcfcxfjkw,cfycywscifacpqoacnws
ynfgibfysr

HfidcUfasckfvspcfmnsicwsi,cfchqqpdc jvvxspcst isyygqacqacwsicmfbs,
owgxscHiycBqaiqdcxsfaspcq.sicnwsczfagynsiycnqcxgynsacmqicnwscwfxx-pqqir
Kfzigsxcfyespcwghysxmcofycwscnwscbfjyscqmcwsicfzij ncps finjisrcZjncyws
pgpcaqncysshcnqczscgacgxxcwjhqji:cywscwfpckqascfofdcxfjkwgakrcWscynfisp
zxfaexdcpqoacnwscynfgibfysr

FncnwschqhsancFjancEfnscbfhscnqppxgakcqjncqmcnwscyj  si-iqqh,cfxhqyn
oigakgakcwsicwfapycgacpsy fgir

“OwsiscgycKfzigsx?”cywscbigsprc“OwsiscqacsfinwcgycKfzigsx?cNwsis’y
s.sidqascofgngakcgacnwsis,cynfkscnqcxsn,cfapcaqzqpdcnqcbfi.scnws
kqqys!”

“WsiscGcfh,cFjancEfns!”cbigspcKfzigsx,cognwcyjppsacfaghfngqa,c“isfpdcnq
bfi.scfcmxqbecqmckssys,cgmcasbsyyfidr”

Fcmfncziqoackqqyscxfdcfncqascsapcqmcnwscnfzxscfapcfncnwscqnwsicsap,cqa
fczspcqmcbisfyspc f sicynisoacognwcy igkycqmc fiyxsd,cxfdcfckisfncwfh,
ynig  spcqmcgnycqjnsicyegacfapc s  sispcq.sicognwcbijyncbijhzy,cfcasfn
 f sicmigxxciqjapcgnycywgacfapczsygpscnwgycofycfciqjapcqmcy gbspczssmr
Zsnossacnwsyscig.fxcsapycifac fifxxsxcxgasycqmcygps-pgywsy:cnoqcxgnnxs
hgaynsiycqmcusxxd,cispcfapcdsxxqo;cfcywfxxqocpgywcmjxxcqmczxqbeycqm
zxfabhfakscfapcispcufh,cfcxfiksckissacxsfm-ywf spcpgywcognwcf
ynfxe-ywf spcwfapxs,cqacowgbwcxfdczjabwsycqmc ji xscifgygaycfapc ssxsp
fxhqapy,cfcbqh fagqacpgywcqacowgbwcxfdcfcyqxgpcisbnfakxscqmcYhdiaf
mgky,cfcpgywcqmcbjynfipcnq  spcognwckifnspcajnhsk,cfcyhfxxczqoxcmjxxcqm
bwqbqxfnsycfapcyossnycoif  spcgackqxpcfapcygx.sic f siycfapcfckxfyy
.fyscgacowgbwcynqqpcyqhscnfxxcbsxsidcynfxeyrcGacnwscbsaniscqmcnwscnfzxs
nwsiscynqqp,cfycysanigsycnqcfcmijgn-ynfapcowgbwcj wsxpcfc difhgpcqm
qifaksycfapcFhsigbfacf  xsy,cnoqcyljfncqxp-mfywgqaspcpsbfansiycqmcbjn
kxfyy,cqascbqanfgagakc qincfapcnwscqnwsicpfiecywsiidrcQacnwscbxqysp
yljfisc gfaqcfc jppgakcgacfcwjkscdsxxqocpgywcxfdcgacofgngakcfapczswgap
gncosiscnwisscyljfpycqmczqnnxsycqmcynqjncfapcfxscfapchgasifxy,cpifoacj 
fbbqipgakcnqcnwscbqxqjiycqmcnwsgicjagmqihy,cnwscmgiyncnoqczxfbe,cognw
ziqoacfapcispcxfzsxy,cnwscnwgipcfapcyhfxxsyncyljfpcowgns,cognw
nifay.siysckissacyfywsyr

Kfzigsxcnqqecwgycysfnczqxpxdcfncnwscwsfpcqmcnwscnfzxscfap,cwf.gak
xqqespcnqcnwscspkscqmcnwscbfi.si,c xjakspcwgycmqiecmgihxdcganqcnws
kqqysrcWscmsxncljgnscfncsfyscaqocmqicwscofycfacst sincbfi.sicfapcxgesp
aqnwgakczsnnsicnwfacnqcmgapcwghysxmcfncnwscwsfpcqmcfcosxx-xfpsacnfzxsr

“HgyycMjixqak,cowfncywfxxcGcysapcdqj?”cwscfyesprc“Fcogakcqicfcyxgbscqm
nwsczisfyn?”

“Ujyncfcyhfxxcyxgbscqmcnwsczisfynr”

“HgyycWgkkgay,cowfncmqicdqj?”

“Q,cfadnwgakcfncfxx,cHicBqaiqdr”

OwgxscKfzigsxcfapcHgyycPfxdcstbwfakspc xfnsycqmckqqyscfapc xfnsycqmcwfh
fapcy gbspczssmcXgxdcosancmiqhckjsyncnqckjsyncognwcfcpgywcqmcwqncmxqjid
 qnfnqsycoif  spcgacfcowgnscaf egarcNwgycofycHfidcUfas’ycgpsfcfapcyws
wfpcfxyqcyjkksynspcf  xscyfjbscmqicnwsckqqysczjncFjancEfnscwfpcyfgp
nwfnc xfgaciqfynckqqyscognwqjncfadcf  xscyfjbscwfpcfxofdyczssackqqp
saqjkwcmqicwsicfapcywscwq spcywschgkwncas.sicsfncoqiysrcHfidcUfas
ofgnspcqacwsic j gxycfapcyfocnwfncnwsdckqncnwsczsyncyxgbsycfapcFjan
EfnscfapcFjancUjxgfcq saspcfapcbfiigspcfbiqyycmiqhcnwsc gfaqczqnnxsycqm
ynqjncfapcfxscmqicnwscksanxshsacfapczqnnxsycqmchgasifxycmqicnwscxfpgsyr
Nwsiscofycfckisfncpsfxcqmcbqamjygqacfapcxfjkwnsicfapcaqgys,cnwscaqgys
qmcqipsiycfapcbqjansi-qipsiy,cqmceag.sycfapcmqiey,cqmcbqieycfap
kxfyy-ynq  siyrcKfzigsxczskfacnqcbfi.scysbqapcwsx gakycfycyqqacfycws
wfpcmgagywspcnwscmgiynciqjapcognwqjncysi.gakcwghysxmrcS.sidqas
 iqnsynspcxqjpxdcyqcnwfncwscbqh iqhgyspczdcnfegakcfcxqakcpifjkwncqm
ynqjncmqicwscwfpcmqjapcnwscbfi.gakcwqncoqiercHfidcUfascysnnxspcpqoa
ljgsnxdcnqcwsicyj  siczjncFjancEfnscfapcFjancUjxgfcosiscyngxxcnqppxgak
iqjapcnwscnfzxs,cofxegakcqacsfbwcqnwsi’ycwssxy,cksnngakcgacsfbwcqnwsi’y
ofdcfapckg.gakcsfbwcqnwsicjawsspspcqipsiyrcHicZiqoasczskkspcqmcnwshcnq
ygncpqoacfapcsfncnwsgicyj  siycfapcyqcpgpcKfzigsxczjncnwsdcyfgpcnwsd
osiscnghscsaqjkwcyqcnwfn,cfncxfyn,cMisppdcHfxgaycynqqpcj cfap,
bf njigakcFjancEfns,c xjh spcwsicpqoacqacwsicbwfgicfhgpcksasifx
xfjkwnsir

Owsacs.sidqascwfpczssacosxxcysi.spcKfzigsxcyfgp,cyhgxgak:

“Aqo,cgmcfadqascofanycfcxgnnxschqiscqmcowfnc.jxkfic sq xscbfxxcynjmmgak
xsncwghcqicwsicy sfer”

Fcbwqijycqmc.qgbsycga.gnspcwghcnqczskgacwgycqoacyj  sicfapcXgxdcbfhs
mqiofipcognwcnwissc qnfnqsycowgbwcywscwfpcisysi.spcmqicwghr

“.sidcosxx,”cyfgpcKfzigsxcfhgfzxd,cfycwscnqqecfaqnwsic is fifnqid
pifjkwn,c“egapxdcmqiksnchdcstgynsabs,cxfpgsycfapcksanxshsa,cmqicfcmso
hgajnsyr”

Wscysncnqcwgycyj  sicfapcnqqecaqc fincgacnwscbqa.siyfngqacognwcowgbw
nwscnfzxscbq.sispcXgxd’ycishq.fxcqmcnwsc xfnsyrcNwscyjzusbncqmcnfxecofy
nwscq sifcbqh fadcowgbwcofycnwsacfncnwscNwsfniscIqdfxrcHicZfinsxx
P’Fibd,cnwscnsaqi,cfcpfie-bqh xstgqaspcdqjakchfacognwcfcyhfin
hqjynfbws,c ifgyspc.sidcwgkwxdcnwscxsfpgakcbqanifxnqcqmcnwscbqh fadczjn
HgyycMjixqakcnwqjkwncywscwfpcfcifnwsic.jxkficyndxscqmc iqpjbngqar
MisppdcHfxgaycyfgpcnwsiscofycfcaskiqcbwgsmnfgacygakgakcgacnwscysbqap
 fincqmcnwscKfgsndc fanqhghscowqcwfpcqascqmcnwscmgasyncnsaqic.qgbsycws
wfpcs.sicwsfipr

“Wf.scdqjcwsfipcwgh?”cwscfyespcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdcfbiqyycnwscnfzxsr

“Aq,”cfayosispcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdcbfisxsyyxdr

“Zsbfjys,”cMisppdcHfxgaycst xfgasp,c“aqocG’pczscbjigqjycnqcwsficdqji
q gagqacqmcwghrcGcnwgaecwscwfycfckifapc.qgbsr”

“GncnfesycNsppdcnqcmgapcqjncnwscisfxxdckqqpcnwgaky,”cyfgpcHicZiqoas
mfhgxgfixdcnqcnwscnfzxsr

“Fapcowdcbqjxpa’ncwscwf.scfc.qgbscnqq?”cfyespcMisppdcHfxgaycywfi xdr
“Gycgnczsbfjyscws’ycqaxdcfczxfbe?”

AqzqpdcfayosispcnwgycljsyngqacfapcHfidcUfascxspcnwscnfzxsczfbecnqcnws
xskgnghfnscq sifrcQascqmcwsic j gxycwfpckg.sacwsicfc fyycmqic_Hgkaqa_r
Qmcbqjiyscgncofyc.sidcmgas,cywscyfgp,czjncgnchfpscwsicnwgaecqmc qqi
KsqikgafcZjiayrcHicZiqoascbqjxpckqczfbecmfinwsicyngxx,cnqcnwscqxp
Gnfxgfacbqh fagsycnwfncjyspcnqcbqhscnqcPjzxga—Ngsnusay,cGxhfcpscHjivef,
Bfh fagag,cnwsckisfncNiszsxxg,cKgjkxgag,cIf.sxxg,cFifhzjiqrcNwqyscosis
nwscpfdy,cwscyfgp,cowsacnwsiscofycyqhsnwgakcxgescygakgakcnqczscwsfipcga
PjzxgarcWscnqxpcnqqcqmcwqocnwscnq ckfxxsidcqmcnwscqxpcIqdfxcjyspcnqczs
 fbespcagkwncfmnsicagkwn,cqmcwqocqascagkwncfacGnfxgfacnsaqicwfpcyjak
mg.scsabqisycnqc_XsnchscxgescfcYqxpgsicmfxx_,cganiqpjbgakcfcwgkwcB
s.sidcnghs,cfapcqmcwqocnwsckfxxsidczqdycoqjxpcyqhsnghsycgacnwsgi
sanwjygfyhcjadqescnwscwqiysycmiqhcnwscbfiigfkscqmcyqhsckisfnc_ ighf
pqaaf_cfapc jxxcwsicnwshysx.sycnwiqjkwcnwscynissnycnqcwsicwqnsxrcOwd
pgpcnwsdcas.sic xfdcnwsckifapcqxpcq sifycaqo,cwscfyesp,c_Pgaqifw,
XjbisvgfcZqikgf?_cZsbfjyscnwsdcbqjxpcaqncksncnwsc.qgbsycnqcygakcnwsh:
nwfncofycowdr

“Qw,cosxx,”cyfgpcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibd,c“Gc isyjhscnwsiscfiscfyckqqp
ygaksiycnqpfdcfycnwsiscosiscnwsar”

“Owsiscfiscnwsd?”cfyespcHicZiqoascpsmgfanxdr

“GacXqapqa,c figy,cHgxfa,”cyfgpcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdcofihxdrc“Gcyj  qys
Bfijyq,cmqicstfh xs,cgycljgnscfyckqqp,cgmcaqnczsnnsicnwfacfadcqmcnws
hsacdqjcwf.schsangqaspr”

“Hfdzscyq,”cyfgpcHicZiqoasrc“ZjncGchfdcnsxxcdqjcGcpqjzncgncyniqakxdr”

“Q,cG’pckg.scfadnwgakcnqcwsficBfijyqcygak,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasr

“Mqichs,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,cowqcwfpczssac gbegakcfczqas,c“nwsiscofycqaxd
qascnsaqircNqc xsfyschs,cGchsfarcZjncGcyj  qyscaqascqmcdqjcs.sicwsfip
qmcwghr”

“Owqcofycws,cHgyycHqiefa?”cfyespcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdc qxgnsxdr

“Wgycafhs,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,c“ofyc fiegayqarcGcwsfipcwghcowsacwscofycga
wgyc ighscfapcGcnwgaecwscwfpcnwsacnwsc jisyncnsaqic.qgbscnwfncofycs.si
 jncganqcfchfa’ycnwiqfnr”

“Ynifaks,”cyfgpcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdrc“Gcas.sics.sacwsfipcqmcwghr”

“Dsy,cdsy,cHgyycHqiefacgycigkwn,”cyfgpcHicZiqoasrc“Gcishshzsicwsfigak
qmcqxpc fiegayqaczjncws’ycnqqcmficzfbecmqichsr”

“Fczsfjngmjxc jiscyossnchsxxqocSakxgywcnsaqi,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscognw
sanwjygfyhr

Kfzigsxcwf.gakcmgagywsp,cnwscwjksc jppgakcofycnifaymsiispcnqcnwscnfzxsr
Nwscbxfnnsicqmcmqieycfapcy qqayczskfacfkfgarcKfzigsx’ycogmscysi.spcqjn
y qqamjxycqmcnwsc jppgakcfapc fyyspcnwsc xfnsycpqoacnwscnfzxsrcHgpofd
pqoacnwsdcosiscwsxpcj czdcHfidcUfas,cowqcis xsagywspcnwshcognw
ify zsiidcqicqifakscusxxdcqicognwczxfabhfakscfapcufhrcNwsc jppgakcofy
qmcFjancUjxgf’ychfegakcfapcywscisbsg.spc ifgysycmqicgncmiqhcfxx
ljfinsiyrcYwscwsiysxmcyfgpcnwfncgncofycaqncljgnscziqoacsaqjkwr

“Osxx,cGcwq s,cHgyycHqiefa,”cyfgpcHicZiqoas,c“nwfncG’hcziqoacsaqjkwcmqi
dqjczsbfjys,cdqjceaqo,cG’hcfxxcziqoar”

Fxxcnwscksanxshsa,cstbs ncKfzigsx,cfnscyqhscqmcnwsc jppgakcqjncqm
bqh xghsancnqcFjancUjxgfrcFycKfzigsxcas.sicfnscyossnycnwscbsxsidcwfp
zssacxsmncmqicwghrcMisppdcHfxgaycfxyqcnqqecfcynfxecqmcbsxsidcfapcfnscgn
ognwcwgyc jppgakrcWscwfpczssacnqxpcnwfncbsxsidcofycfcbf gnfxcnwgakcmqi
nwsczxqqpcfapcwscofycujyncnwsacjapsicpqbnqi’ycbfisrcHiycHfxgay,cowqcwfp
zssacygxsancfxxcnwiqjkwcnwscyj  si,cyfgpcnwfncwsicyqacofyckqgakcpqoacnq
HqjancHsxxsifdcgacfcossecqicyqrcNwscnfzxscnwsacy qescqmcHqjancHsxxsifd,
wqoczifbgakcnwscfgicofycpqoacnwsis,cwqocwqy gnfzxscnwschqaeycosiscfap
wqocnwsdcas.sicfyespcmqicfc saad- gsbscmiqhcnwsgickjsynyr

“Fapcpqcdqjchsfacnqcyfd,”cfyespcHicZiqoascgabispjxqjyxd,c“nwfncfcbwf 
bfackqcpqoacnwsiscfapc jncj cnwsiscfycgmcgncosiscfcwqnsxcfapcxg.scqa
nwscmfncqmcnwscxfapcfapcnwsacbqhscfofdcognwqjnc fdgakcfadnwgak?”

“Q,chqync sq xsckg.scyqhscpqafngqacnqcnwschqafynsidcowsacnwsdcxsf.sr”
yfgpcHfidcUfasr

“GcogywcoscwfpcfacgayngnjngqacxgescnwfncgacqjicBwjibw,”cyfgpcHicZiqoas
bfapgpxdr

Wscofycfynqagywspcnqcwsficnwfncnwschqaeycas.sicy qes,ckqncj cfncnoqcga
nwschqiagakcfapcyxs ncgacnwsgicbqmmgayrcWscfyespcowfncnwsdcpgpcgncmqir

“Nwfn’ycnwscijxscqmcnwscqipsi,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscmgihxdr

“Dsy,czjncowd?”cfyespcHicZiqoasr

FjancEfnscis sfnspcnwfncgncofycnwscijxs,cnwfncofycfxxrcHicZiqoascyngxx
ysshspcaqncnqcjapsiynfaprcMisppdcHfxgaycst xfgaspcnqcwgh,cfyczsyncws
bqjxp,cnwfncnwschqaeycosiscnidgakcnqchfescj cmqicnwscygaycbqhhgnnspczd
fxxcnwscygaasiycgacnwscqjnygpscoqixprcNwscst xfafngqacofycaqnc.sid
bxsficmqicHicZiqoasckigaaspcfapcyfgp:

“Gcxgescnwfncgpsfc.sidchjbwczjncoqjxpa’ncfcbqhmqinfzxscy igakczspcpq
nwshcfycosxxcfycfcbqmmga?”

“Nwscbqmmga,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,c“gycnqcishgapcnwshcqmcnwsgicxfyncsapr”

Fycnwscyjzusbncwfpckiqoacxjkjzigqjycgncofyczjigspcgacfcygxsabscqmcnws
nfzxscpjigakcowgbwcHiycHfxgaycbqjxpczscwsfipcyfdgakcnqcwsicasgkwzqjicga
facgapgyngabncjapsinqas:

“Nwsdcfisc.sidckqqpchsa,cnwschqaey,c.sidc gqjychsar”

Nwscifgygaycfapcfxhqapycfapcmgkycfapcf  xsycfapcqifaksycfapcbwqbqxfnsy
fapcyossnycosiscaqoc fyyspcfzqjncnwscnfzxscfapcFjancUjxgfcga.gnspcfxx
nwsckjsynycnqcwf.scsgnwsic qincqicywsiidrcFncmgiyncHicZfinsxxcP’Fibd
ismjyspcnqcnfescsgnwsiczjncqascqmcwgycasgkwzqjiycajpkspcwghcfap
owgy sispcyqhsnwgakcnqcwghcj qacowgbwcwscfxxqospcwgyckxfyycnqczs
mgxxsprcKifpjfxxdcfycnwscxfynckxfyysycosisczsgakcmgxxspcnws
bqa.siyfngqacbsfysprcFc fjyscmqxxqosp,cziqesacqaxdczdcnwscaqgyscqmcnws
ogascfapczdcjaysnnxgakycqmcbwfgiyrcNwscHgyysycHqiefa,cfxxcnwiss,cxqqesp
pqoacfncnwscnfzxsbxqnwrcYqhsqascbqjkwspcqabscqicnogbscfapcnwsacfcmso
ksanxshsac fnnspcnwscnfzxscksanxdcfycfcygkafxcmqicygxsabsrcNwscygxsabs
bfhscfapcKfzigsxc jywspczfbecwgycbwfgir

Nwsc fnngakcfncqabsckisocxqjpsicgacsabqjifkshsancfapcnwsacbsfysp
fxnqksnwsircKfzigsxcxsfaspcwgycnsacnishzxgakcmgaksiycqacnwscnfzxsbxqnw
fapcyhgxspcasi.qjyxdcfncnwscbqh fadrcHssngakcfciqocqmcj njiaspcmfbsycws
ifgyspcwgycsdsycnqcnwscbwfapsxgsircNwsc gfaqcofyc xfdgakcfcofxnvcnjas
fapcwscbqjxpcwsficnwscyeginycyoss gakcfkfgayncnwscpifogak-iqqhcpqqir
 sq xs,c siwf y,cosiscynfapgakcgacnwscyaqocqacnwscljfdcqjnygps,ckfvgak
j cfncnwscxgkwnspcogapqoycfapcxgynsagakcnqcnwscofxnvchjygbrcNwscfgicofy
 jiscnwsisrcGacnwscpgynfabscxfdcnwsc fiecowsiscnwscnissycosiscosgkwnsp
ognwcyaqorcNwscOsxxgaknqacHqajhsancoqiscfckxsfhgakcbf cqmcyaqocnwfn
mxfywspcosynofipcq.sicnwscowgnscmgsxpcqmcMgmnssacFbisyr

Wsczskfa:

“XfpgsycfapcKsanxshsa,

“Gncwfycmfxxsacnqchdcxqncnwgycs.sagak,cfycgacdsfiyc fyn,cnqc simqihcf
.sidc xsfygakcnfyeczjncfcnfyecmqicowgbwcGcfhcfmifgpchdc qqic qosiycfycf
y sfesicfiscfxxcnqqcgafpsljfnsr”

“Aq,caq!”cyfgpcHicZiqoasr

“Zjn,cwqos.sicnwfnchfdczs,cGcbfacqaxdcfyecdqjcnqagkwncnqcnfescnwscogxx
mqicnwscpsspcfapcnqcxsapchscdqjicfnnsangqacmqicfcmsochqhsanycowgxscG
sapsf.qjicnqcst isyycnqcdqjcgacoqipycowfnchdcmssxgakycfiscqacnwgy
qbbfygqar

“XfpgsycfapcKsanxshsa,cgncgycaqncnwscmgiyncnghscnwfncoscwf.sckfnwsisp
nqksnwsicjapsicnwgycwqy gnfzxsciqqm,cfiqjapcnwgycwqy gnfzxsczqfiprcGn
gycaqncnwscmgiyncnghscnwfncoscwf.sczssacnwscisbg gsany—qic siwf y,cG
wfpczsnnsicyfd,cnwsc.gbnghy—qmcnwscwqy gnfxgndcqmcbsinfgackqqpcxfpgsyr”

Wschfpscfcbgibxscgacnwscfgicognwcwgycfihcfapc fjysprcS.sidqascxfjkwsp
qicyhgxspcfncFjancEfnscfapcFjancUjxgfcfapcHfidcUfascowqcfxxcnjiasp
bighyqacognwc xsfyjisrcKfzigsxcosancqachqisczqxpxd:

“Gcmssxchqiscyniqakxdcognwcs.sidcisbjiigakcdsficnwfncqjicbqjanidcwfycaq
nifpgngqacowgbwcpqsycgncyqchjbwcwqaqjicfapcowgbwcgncywqjxpckjfipcyq
usfxqjyxdcfycnwfncqmcgnycwqy gnfxgndrcGncgycfcnifpgngqacnwfncgycjagljs
fycmficfychdcst sigsabsckqsyc(fapcGcwf.sc.gygnspcaqncfcmsoc xfbsy
fziqfp)cfhqakcnwschqpsiacafngqayrcYqhscoqjxpcyfd,c siwf y,cnwfncognwcjy
gncgycifnwsicfcmfgxgakcnwfacfadnwgakcnqczsczqfynspcqmrcZjnckifanspcs.sa
nwfn,cgncgy,cnqchdchgap,cfc igabsxdcmfgxgak,cfapcqascnwfncGcnijyncogxx
xqakczscbjxng.fnspcfhqakcjyrcQmcqascnwgak,cfncxsfyn,cGcfhcyjisrcFycxqak
fycnwgycqasciqqmcywsxnsiycnwsckqqpcxfpgsycfmqisyfgp—fapcGcogywcmiqhchd
wsfincgnchfdcpqcyqcmqichfadcfapchfadcfcxqakcdsficnqcbqhs—nwscnifpgngqa
qmcksajgascofih-wsfinspcbqjinsqjycGigywcwqy gnfxgnd,cowgbwcqji
mqismfnwsiycwf.scwfapspcpqoacnqcjycfapcowgbwcoscgacnjiachjyncwfapcpqoa
nqcqjicpsybsapfany,cgycyngxxcfxg.scfhqakcjyr”

FcwsfindchjihjicqmcfyysancifaciqjapcnwscnfzxsrcGncywqncnwiqjkw
Kfzigsx’ychgapcnwfncHgyycG.qiycofycaqncnwsiscfapcnwfncywscwfpckqascfofd
pgybqjinsqjyxd:cfapcwscyfgpcognwcbqamgpsabscgacwghysxm:

“XfpgsycfapcKsanxshsa,

“Fcasocksasifngqacgyckiqogakcj cgacqjichgpyn,cfcksasifngqacfbnjfnspczd
asocgpsfycfapcasoc igabg xsyrcGncgycysigqjycfapcsanwjygfyngbcmqicnwsys
asocgpsfycfapcgnycsanwjygfyh,cs.sacowsacgncgychgypgisbnsp,cgy,cG
zsxgs.s,cgacnwschfgacygabsisrcZjncoscfiscxg.gakcgacfcybs ngbfxcfap,cgm
Gchfdcjyscnwsc wifys,cfcnwqjkwn-nqihsanspcfks:cfapcyqhsnghsycGcmsfi
nwfncnwgycasocksasifngqa,cspjbfnspcqicwd sispjbfnspcfycgncgy,cogxxcxfbe
nwqyscljfxgngsycqmcwjhfagnd,cqmcwqy gnfxgnd,cqmcegapxdcwjhqjicowgbw
zsxqakspcnqcfacqxpsicpfdrcXgynsagakcnqagkwncnqcnwscafhsycqmcfxxcnwqys
kisfncygaksiycqmcnwsc fyncgncysshspcnqchs,cGchjyncbqamsyy,cnwfncoscosis
xg.gakcgacfcxsyycy fbgqjycfksrcNwqyscpfdychgkwn,cognwqjncstfkksifngqa,
zscbfxxspcy fbgqjycpfdy:cfapcgmcnwsdcfisckqasczsdqapcisbfxxcxsncjy
wq s,cfncxsfyn,cnwfncgackfnwsigakycyjbwcfycnwgycoscywfxxcyngxxcy sfecqm
nwshcognwc igpscfapcfmmsbngqa,cyngxxcbwsigywcgacqjicwsfinycnwschshqid
qmcnwqyscpsfpcfapckqasckisfncqasycowqyscmfhscnwscoqixpcogxxcaqn
ogxxgakxdcxsncpgsr”

“Wsfi,cwsfi!”cyfgpcHicZiqoascxqjpxdr

“Zjncdsn,”cbqangajspcKfzigsx,cwgyc.qgbscmfxxgakcganqcfcyqmnsi
gamxsbngqa,c“nwsiscfiscfxofdycgackfnwsigakycyjbwcfycnwgycyfppsi
nwqjkwnycnwfncogxxcisbjicnqcqjichgapy:cnwqjkwnycqmcnwsc fyn,cqmcdqjnw,
qmcbwfaksy,cqmcfzysancmfbsycnwfncoschgyycwsiscnqagkwnrcQjic fnwcnwiqjkw
xgmscgycynisoacognwchfadcyjbwcyfpchshqigsy:cfapcosiscoscnqcziqqpcj qa
nwshcfxofdycoscbqjxpcaqncmgapcnwscwsfincnqckqcqaczif.sxdcognwcqjicoqie
fhqakcnwscxg.gakrcOscwf.scfxxcqmcjycxg.gakcpjngsycfapcxg.gakcfmmsbngqay
owgbwcbxfgh,cfapcigkwnxdcbxfgh,cqjicynisajqjycsapsf.qjiyr

“Nwsismqis,cGcogxxcaqncxgaksicqacnwsc fynrcGcogxxcaqncxsncfadckxqqhd
hqifxgygakcganijpscj qacjycwsiscnqagkwnrcWsiscoscfisckfnwsispcnqksnwsi
mqicfczigsmchqhsancmiqhcnwsczjynxscfapcijywcqmcqjics.sidpfdciqjngasrcOs
fischsncwsiscfycmigsapy,cgacnwscy gigncqmckqqp-msxxqoywg ,cfy
bqxxsfkjsy,cfxyqcnqcfcbsinfgacstnsan,cgacnwscnijscy gigncqm
_bfhfifpsigs_,cfapcfycnwsckjsynycqm—owfncywfxxcGcbfxxcnwsh?—nwscNwiss
KifbsycqmcnwscPjzxgachjygbfxcoqixpr”

Nwscnfzxsczjiyncganqcf  xfjyscfapcxfjkwnsicfncnwgycfxxjygqarcFjancUjxgf
.fgaxdcfyespcsfbwcqmcwsicasgkwzqjiycgacnjiacnqcnsxxcwsicowfncKfzigsx
wfpcyfgpr

“WscyfdycoscfiscnwscNwisscKifbsy,cFjancUjxgf,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasr

FjancUjxgfcpgpcaqncjapsiynfapczjncywscxqqespcj ,cyhgxgak,cfncKfzigsx,
owqcbqangajspcgacnwscyfhsc.sga:

“XfpgsycfapcKsanxshsa,

“Gcogxxcaqncfnnsh ncnqc xfdcnqagkwncnwsc fincnwfnc figyc xfdspcqa
faqnwsicqbbfygqarcGcogxxcaqncfnnsh ncnqcbwqqysczsnossacnwshrcNwscnfye
oqjxpczscfacga.gpgqjycqascfapcqasczsdqapchdc qqic qosiyrcMqicowsacG
.gsocnwshcgacnjia,cowsnwsicgnczscqjicbwgsmcwqynsyycwsiysxm,cowqysckqqp
wsfin,cowqyscnqqckqqpcwsfin,cwfyczsbqhscfczdoqipcognwcfxxcowqceaqocwsi,
qicwsicygynsi,cowqcysshycnqczsckgmnspcognwc sisaagfxcdqjnwcfapcowqys
ygakgakchjyncwf.sczssacfcyji igyscfapcfcis.sxfngqacnqcjycfxxcnqagkwn,
qi,cxfynczjncaqncxsfyn,cowsacGcbqaygpsicqjicdqjaksyncwqynsyy,cnfxsansp,
bwssimjx,cwfip-oqiegakcfapcnwsczsyncqmcagsbsy,cGcbqamsyy,cXfpgsycfap
Ksanxshsa,cnwfncGcpqcaqnceaqocnqcowgbwcqmcnwshcGcywqjxpcfofipcnws
 igvsr”

Kfzigsxckxfabspcpqoacfncwgycfjanycfap,cyssgakcnwscxfikscyhgxscqacFjan
Ujxgf’ycmfbscfapcnwscnsfiycowgbwcwfpcigysacnqcFjancEfns’ycsdsy,
wfynsaspcnqcwgycbxqysrcWscifgyspcwgyckxfyycqmc qinckfxxfanxd,cowgxs
s.sidchshzsicqmcnwscbqh fadcmgaksispcfckxfyycst sbnfanxd,cfapcyfgp
xqjpxd:

“XsncjycnqfyncnwshcfxxcnwisscnqksnwsircXsncjycpigaecnqcnwsgicwsfxnw,
osfxnw,cxqakcxgms,cwf  gasyycfapc iqy signdcfapchfdcnwsdcxqakcbqangajs
nqcwqxpcnwsc iqjpcfapcysxm-oqac qygngqacowgbwcnwsdcwqxpcgacnwsgi
 iqmsyygqacfapcnwsc qygngqacqmcwqaqjicfapcfmmsbngqacowgbwcnwsdcwqxpcga
qjicwsfinyr”

Fxxcnwsckjsynycynqqpcj ,ckxfyycgacwfap,cfapcnjiagakcnqofipycnwscnwiss
ysfnspcxfpgsy,cyfakcgacjagyqa,cognwcHicZiqoascfycxsfpsi:

cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccOwgbwcaqzqpdcbfacpsadr

FjancEfnscofychfegakcmifaecjyscqmcwsicwfapesibwgsmcfapcs.sacFjancUjxgf
ysshspchq.sprcMisppdcHfxgayczsfncnghscognwcwgyc jppgak-mqiecfapcnws
ygaksiycnjiaspcnqofipycqascfaqnwsi,cfycgmcgachsxqpgqjycbqamsisabs,
owgxscnwsdcyfakcognwcsh wfygy:

cccccJaxsyycwscnsxxycfcxgs,
cccccJaxsyycwscnsxxycfcxgsr

Nwsa,cnjiagakcqabschqiscnqofipycnwsgicwqynsyysy,cnwsdcyfak:

cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccMqicnwsdcfiscuqxxdckfdcmsxxqoy,
cccccOwgbwcaqzqpdcbfacpsadr

Nwscfbbxfhfngqacowgbwcmqxxqospcofycnfesacj czsdqapcnwscpqqicqmcnws
yj  si-iqqhczdchfadcqmcnwscqnwsickjsynycfapcisasospcnghscfmnsicnghs,
MisppdcHfxgaycfbngakcfycqmmgbsicognwcwgycmqiecqacwgkwr



Nwsc gsibgakchqiagakcfgicbfhscganqcnwscwfxxcowsiscnwsdcosiscynfapgakcyq
nwfncFjancEfnscyfgp:

“Bxqyscnwscpqqi,cyqhszqpdrcHiycHfxgaycogxxcksncwsicpsfnwcqmcbqxpr”

“Ziqoascgycqjncnwsis,cFjancEfns,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasr

“Ziqoascgycs.sidowsis,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,cxqosigakcwsic.qgbsr

HfidcUfascxfjkwspcfncwsicnqasr

“Isfxxd,”cywscyfgpcfibwxd,c“wscgyc.sidcfnnsang.sr”

“Wscwfyczssacxfgpcqacwsiscxgescnwsckfy,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscgacnwscyfhs
nqas,c“fxxcpjigakcnwscBwigynhfyr”

Ywscxfjkwspcwsiysxmcnwgycnghsckqqp-wjhqjispxdcfapcnwsacfppspcljgbexd:

“Zjncnsxxcwghcnqcbqhscga,cHfidcUfas,cfapcbxqyscnwscpqqircGcwq scnq
kqqpasyycwscpgpa’ncwsfichsr”

Fncnwfnchqhsancnwscwfxx-pqqicofycq saspcfapcHicZiqoascbfhscgacmiqhcnws
pqqiyns ,cxfjkwgakcfycgmcwgycwsfincoqjxpczisfercWscofycpisyyspcgacf
xqakckissacq.sibqfncognwchqbecfynifewfacbjmmycfapcbqxxficfapcoqiscqa
wgycwsfpcfacq.fxcmjicbf rcWsc qganspcpqoacnwscyaqo-bq.sispcljfdcmiqh
owsiscnwscyqjapcqmcywigxxc iqxqakspcowgynxgakcofyczqiascgar

“Nsppdcogxxcwf.scfxxcnwscbfzycgacPjzxgacqjn,”cwscyfgpr

Kfzigsxcfp.fabspcmiqhcnwscxgnnxsc fanidczswgapcnwscqmmgbs,cynijkkxgak
ganqcwgycq.sibqfncfap,cxqqegakciqjapcnwscwfxx,cyfgp:

“Kisnnfcaqncpqoacdsn?”

“Yws’ycksnngakcqacwsicnwgaky,cKfzigsx,”cyfgpcFjancEfnsr

“Owq’yc xfdgakcj cnwsis?”cfyespcKfzigsxr

“AqzqpdrcNwsd’iscfxxckqasr”

“Qcaq,cFjancEfns,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasrc“ZfinsxxcP’FibdcfapcHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfa
fisa’nckqascdsnr”

“Yqhsqascgycmqqxgakcfncnwsc gfaqcfadwqo,”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

HfidcUfasckxfabspcfncKfzigsxcfapcHicZiqoascfapcyfgpcognwcfcywg.si:

“Gnchfesychscmssxcbqxpcnqcxqqecfncdqjcnoqcksanxshsachjmmxspcj cxges
nwfnrcGcoqjxpa’ncxgescnqcmfbscdqjicuqjiasdcwqhscfncnwgycwqjir”

“G’pcxgescaqnwgakczsnnsicnwgychgajns,”cyfgpcHicZiqoascynqjnxd,c“nwfacf
ifnnxgakcmgascofxecgacnwscbqjanidcqicfcmfyncpig.scognwcfckqqpcy faegak
kqsiczsnossacnwscywfmnyr”

“Oscjyspcnqcwf.scfc.sidckqqpcwqiyscfapcnif cfncwqhs,”cyfgpcFjancUjxgf
yfpxdr

“Nwscas.si-nq-zs-mqikqnnsacUqwaad,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,cxfjkwgakr

FjancEfnscfapcKfzigsxcxfjkwspcnqqr

“Owd,cowfncofycoqapsimjxcfzqjncUqwaad?”cfyespcHicZiqoasr

“Nwscxfnscxfhsanspc fnigbecHqiefa,cqjickifapmfnwsi,cnwfncgy,”cst xfgasp
Kfzigsx,c“bqhhqaxdceaqoacgacwgycxfnsicdsfiycfycnwscqxpcksanxshfa,cofycf
kxjs-zqgxsir”

“Qcaqo,cKfzigsx,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,cxfjkwgak,c“wscwfpcfcynfibwchgxxr”

“Osxx,ckxjscqicynfibw,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“nwscqxpcksanxshfacwfpcfcwqiysczd
nwscafhscqmcUqwaadrcFapcUqwaadcjyspcnqcoqiecgacnwscqxpcksanxshfa’y
hgxx,cofxegakciqjapcfapciqjapcgacqipsicnqcpig.scnwschgxxrcNwfncofycfxx
.sidcosxx;czjncaqocbqhsycnwscnifkgbc fincfzqjncUqwaadrcQascmgascpfdcnws
qxpcksanxshfacnwqjkwncws’pcxgescnqcpig.scqjncognwcnwscljfxgndcnqcf
hgxgnfidcis.gsocgacnwsc fier”

“NwscXqipcwf.schsibdcqacwgycyqjx,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscbqh fyygqafnsxdr

“Fhsa,”cyfgpcKfzigsxrc“Yqcnwscqxpcksanxshfa,cfycGcyfgp,cwfiasyysp
Uqwaadcfapc jncqacwgyc.sidczsyncnfxxcwfncfapcwgyc.sidczsyncynqbecbqxxfi
fapcpiq.scqjncgackifapcyndxscmiqhcwgycfabsynifxchfaygqacyqhsowsiscasfi
ZfbecXfas,cGcnwgaer”

S.sidqascxfjkwsp,cs.sacHiycHfxgay,cfncKfzigsx’ychfaasicfapcFjancEfns
yfgp:

“Qcaqo,cKfzigsx,cwscpgpa’ncxg.scgacZfbecXfas,cisfxxdrcQaxdcnwschgxxcofy
nwsisr”

“Qjncmiqhcnwschfaygqacqmcwgycmqismfnwsiy,”cbqangajspcKfzigsx,c“wscpiq.s
ognwcUqwaadrcFapcs.sidnwgakcosancqaczsfjngmjxxdcjangxcUqwaadcbfhscga
ygkwncqmcEgakcZgxxd’ycynfnjs:cfapcowsnwsicwscmsxxcgacxq.scognwcnws
wqiyscEgakcZgxxdcygnycqacqicowsnwsicwscnwqjkwncwscofyczfbecfkfgacgacnws
hgxx,cfadwqocwsczskfacnqcofxeciqjapcnwscynfnjsr”

Kfzigsxc fbspcgacfcbgibxsciqjapcnwscwfxxcgacwgyckqxqywsycfhgpcnws
xfjkwnsicqmcnwscqnwsiyr

“Iqjapcfapciqjapcwscosan,”cyfgpcKfzigsx,c“fapcnwscqxpcksanxshfa,cowq
ofycfc.sidc qh qjycqxpcksanxshfa,cofycwgkwxdcgapgkafanrc‘Kqcqa,cygi!
Owfncpqcdqjchsfa,cygi?cUqwaad!cUqwaad!cHqyncstnifqipgafidcbqapjbn!
Bfa’ncjapsiynfapcnwscwqiys!’”

Nwsc sfxcqmcxfjkwnsicowgbwcmqxxqospcKfzigsx’ycghgnfngqacqmcnwscgabgpsan
ofycgansiij nspczdcfcisyqjapgakceaqbecfncnwscwfxxcpqqircHfidcUfascifa
nqcq sacgncfapcxsncgacMisppdcHfxgayrcMisppdcHfxgay,cognwcwgycwfncosxx
zfbecqacwgycwsfpcfapcwgycywqjxpsiycwjh spcognwcbqxp,cofyc jmmgakcfap
ynsfhgakcfmnsicwgycstsingqayr

“Gcbqjxpcqaxdcksncqascbfz,”cwscyfgpr

“Q,cos’xxcmgapcfaqnwsicfxqakcnwscljfd,”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

“Dsy,”cyfgpcFjancEfnsrc“Zsnnsicaqncess cHiycHfxgaycynfapgakcgacnws
pifjkwnr”

HiycHfxgaycofycwsx spcpqoacnwscmiqancyns yczdcwsicyqacfapcHicZiqoas
fap,cfmnsichfadchfaœj.isy,cwqgynspcganqcnwscbfzrcMisppdcHfxgay
bxfhzsispcgacfmnsicwsicfapcy sancfcxqakcnghscysnnxgakcwsicqacnwscysfn,
HicZiqoascwsx gakcwghcognwcfp.gbsrcFncxfyncywscofycysnnxspcbqhmqinfzxd
fapcMisppdcHfxgaycga.gnspcHicZiqoascganqcnwscbfzrcNwsiscofycfckqqpcpsfx
qmcbqamjyspcnfxe,cfapcnwsacHicZiqoasckqncganqcnwscbfzrcNwscbfzhfa
ysnnxspcwgycijkcq.sicwgyceassy,cfapczsancpqoacmqicnwscfppisyyrcNws
bqamjygqackisockisfnsicfapcnwscbfzhfacofycpgisbnspcpgmmsisanxdczd
MisppdcHfxgaycfapcHicZiqoas,csfbwcqmcowqhcwfpcwgycwsfpcqjncnwiqjkwcf
ogapqocqmcnwscbfzrcNwscpgmmgbjxndcofycnqceaqocowsiscnqcpiq cHicZiqoas
fxqakcnwsciqjns,cfapcFjancEfns,cFjancUjxgfcfapcHfidcUfascwsx spcnws
pgybjyygqacmiqhcnwscpqqiyns cognwcbiqyy-pgisbngqaycfapcbqanifpgbngqay
fapcfzjapfabscqmcxfjkwnsircFycmqicMisppdcHfxgaycwscofycy ssbwxsyycognw
xfjkwnsircWsc q  spcwgycwsfpcgacfapcqjncqmcnwscogapqocs.sidchqhsancnq
nwsckisfncpfaksicqmcwgycwfn,cfapcnqxpcwgychqnwsicwqocnwscpgybjyygqacofy
 iqkisyygak,cngxxcfncxfyncHicZiqoascywqjnspcnqcnwsczsogxpsispcbfzhfa
fzq.scnwscpgacqmcs.sidzqpd’ycxfjkwnsi:

“PqcdqjceaqocNigagndcBqxxsks?”

“Dsy,cygi,”cyfgpcnwscbfzhfar

“Osxx,cpig.sczfakcj cfkfgayncNigagndcBqxxsksckfnsy,”cyfgpcHicZiqoas,
“fapcnwsacos’xxcnsxxcdqjcowsiscnqckqrcDqjcjapsiynfapcaqo?”

“Dsy,cygi,”cyfgpcnwscbfzhfar

“HfescxgescfczgipcmqicNigagndcBqxxsksr”

“Igkwn,cygi,”cyfgpcnwscbfzhfar

Nwscwqiyscofycowg  spcj cfapcnwscbfzcifnnxspcqmmcfxqakcnwscljfdcfhgpcf
bwqijycqmcxfjkwnsicfapcfpgsjyr

KfzigsxcwfpcaqnckqascnqcnwscpqqicognwcnwscqnwsiyrcWscofycgacfcpfiec fin
qmcnwscwfxxckfvgakcj cnwscynfgibfysrcFcoqhfacofycynfapgakcasficnwscnq 
qmcnwscmgiyncmxgkwn,cgacnwscywfpqocfxyqrcWscbqjxpcaqncysscwsicmfbsczjn
wscbqjxpcysscnwscnsiifbqnnfcfapcyfxhqa- gaec fasxycqmcwsicyegincowgbw
nwscywfpqochfpscf  sficzxfbecfapcowgnsrcGncofycwgycogmsrcYwscofy
xsfagakcqacnwsczfagynsiy,cxgynsagakcnqcyqhsnwgakrcKfzigsxcofycyji igysp
fncwsicyngxxasyycfapcynifgaspcwgycsficnqcxgynsacfxyqrcZjncwscbqjxpcwsfi
xgnnxscyf.scnwscaqgyscqmcxfjkwnsicfapcpgy jnscqacnwscmiqancyns y,cfcmso
bwqipycynijbecqacnwsc gfaqcfapcfcmsocaqnsycqmcfchfa’yc.qgbscygakgakr

Wscynqqpcyngxxcgacnwsckxqqhcqmcnwscwfxx,cnidgakcnqcbfnbwcnwscfgicnwfn
nwsc.qgbscofycygakgakcfapckfvgakcj cfncwgycogmsrcNwsiscofyckifbscfap
hdynsidcgacwsicfnngnjpscfycgmcywscosiscfcydhzqxcqmcyqhsnwgakrcWscfyesp
wghysxmcowfncgycfcoqhfacynfapgakcqacnwscynfgiycgacnwscywfpqo,cxgynsagak
nqcpgynfanchjygb,cfcydhzqxcqmrcGmcwscosiscfc fgansicwscoqjxpc fgancwsi
gacnwfncfnngnjpsrcWsiczxjscmsxncwfncoqjxpcywqocqmmcnwscziqavscqmcwsi
wfgicfkfgayncnwscpfieasyycfapcnwscpfiec fasxycqmcwsicyegincoqjxpcywqo
qmmcnwscxgkwncqasyrc_PgynfancHjygb_cwscoqjxpcbfxxcnwsc gbnjiscgmcws
osiscfc fgansir

Nwscwfxx-pqqicofycbxqysp;cfapcFjancEfns,cFjancUjxgfcfapcHfidcUfascbfhs
pqoacnwscwfxx,cyngxxcxfjkwgakr

“Osxx,cgya’ncMisppdcnsiigzxs?”cyfgpcHfidcUfasrc“Ws’ycisfxxdcnsiigzxsr”

Kfzigsxcyfgpcaqnwgakczjnc qganspcj cnwscynfgiycnqofipycowsiscwgycogms
ofycynfapgakrcAqocnwfncnwscwfxx-pqqicofycbxqyspcnwsc.qgbscfapcnwsc gfaq
bqjxpczscwsfipchqiscbxsfixdrcKfzigsxcwsxpcj cwgycwfapcmqicnwshcnqczs
ygxsanrcNwscyqakcysshspcnqczscgacnwscqxpcGigywcnqafxgndcfapcnwscygaksi
ysshspcjabsinfgaczqnwcqmcwgycoqipycfapcqmcwgyc.qgbsrcNwsc.qgbs,chfps
 xfgang.sczdcpgynfabscfapczdcnwscygaksi’ycwqfiysasyy,cmfganxd
gxxjhgafnspcnwscbfpsabscqmcnwscfgicognwcoqipycst isyygakckigsm:

cccccQ,cnwscifgacmfxxycqachdcwsf.dcxqbey
cccccFapcnwscpsocosnychdcyega,
cccccHdczfzscxgsycbqxprrrr

“Q,”cstbxfghspcHfidcUfasrc“Gn’ycZfinsxxcP’Fibdcygakgakcfapcwscoqjxpa’n
ygakcfxxcnwscagkwnrcQ,cG’xxcksncwghcnqcygakcfcyqakczsmqiscwsckqsyr”

“Qcpq,cHfidcUfas,”cyfgpcFjancEfnsr

HfidcUfasczijywspc fyncnwscqnwsiycfapcifacnqcnwscynfgibfys,czjnczsmqis
ywscisfbwspcgncnwscygakgakcynq  spcfapcnwsc gfaqcofycbxqyspcfzij nxdr

“Q,cowfncfc gnd!”cywscbigsprc“Gycwscbqhgakcpqoa,cKisnnf?”

KfzigsxcwsfipcwgycogmscfayosicdsycfapcyfocwsicbqhscpqoacnqofipycnwshrcF
msocyns yczswgapcwsicosiscHicZfinsxxcP’FibdcfapcHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfar

“Q,cHicP’Fibd,”cbigspcHfidcUfas,c“gn’ycpqoaigkwnchsfacqmcdqjcnqczisfe
qmmcxgescnwfncowsacoscosiscfxxcgacif njisycxgynsagakcnqcdqjr”

“Gcwf.sczssacfncwghcfxxcnwscs.sagak,”cyfgpcHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfa,c“fapcHiy
Bqaiqdcnqqcfapcwscnqxpcjycwscwfpcfcpisfpmjxcbqxpcfapcbqjxpa’ncygakr”

“Q,cHicP’Fibd,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,c“aqocnwfncofycfckisfncmgzcnqcnsxxr”

“Bfa’ncdqjcysscnwfncG’hcfycwqfiyscfycfcbiqo?”cyfgpcHicP’Fibdciqjkwxdr

Wscosancganqcnwsc fanidcwfyngxdcfapc jncqacwgycq.sibqfnrcNwscqnwsiy,
nfesacfzfbeczdcwgycijpscy ssbw,cbqjxpcmgapcaqnwgakcnqcyfdrcFjancEfns
oigaexspcwsicziqoycfapchfpscygkaycnqcnwscqnwsiycnqcpiq cnwscyjzusbnrcHi
P’Fibdcynqqpcyofnwgakcwgycasbecbfismjxxdcfapcmiqoagakr

“Gn’ycnwscosfnwsi,”cyfgpcFjancUjxgf,cfmnsicfc fjysr

“Dsy,cs.sidzqpdcwfycbqxpy,”cyfgpcFjancEfnscisfpgxd,c“s.sidzqpdr”

“Nwsdcyfd,”cyfgpcHfidcUfas,c“oscwf.sa’ncwfpcyaqocxgescgncmqicnwgind
dsfiy;cfapcGcisfpcnwgychqiagakcgacnwscasoy f siycnwfncnwscyaqocgy
ksasifxcfxxcq.sicGisxfapr”

“Gcxq.scnwscxqqecqmcyaqo,”cyfgpcFjancUjxgfcyfpxdr

“YqcpqcG,”cyfgpcHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfarc“GcnwgaecBwigynhfycgycas.sicisfxxd
Bwigynhfycjaxsyycoscwf.scnwscyaqocqacnwsckiqjapr”

“Zjnc qqicHicP’Fibdcpqsya’ncxgescnwscyaqo,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,cyhgxgakr

HicP’Fibdcbfhscmiqhcnwsc fanid,cmjxxdcyofnwspcfapczjnnqasp,cfapcgacf
is sanfancnqascnqxpcnwshcnwscwgynqidcqmcwgycbqxprcS.sidqasckf.scwgh
fp.gbscfapcyfgpcgncofycfckisfnc gndcfapcjikspcwghcnqczsc.sidcbfismjxcqm
wgycnwiqfncgacnwscagkwncfgircKfzigsxcofnbwspcwgycogms,cowqcpgpcaqncuqga
gacnwscbqa.siyfngqarcYwscofycynfapgakcigkwncjapsicnwscpjyndcmfaxgkwn
fapcnwscmxfhscqmcnwsckfycxgncj cnwscigbwcziqavscqmcwsicwfgi,cowgbwcws
wfpcyssacwsicpidgakcfncnwscmgiscfcmsocpfdyczsmqisrcYwscofycgacnwscyfhs
fnngnjpscfapcysshspcjafofiscqmcnwscnfxecfzqjncwsircFncxfyncywscnjiasp
nqofipycnwshcfapcKfzigsxcyfocnwfncnwsiscofycbqxqjicqacwsicbwsseycfap
nwfncwsicsdsycosiscywgagakrcFcyjppsacngpscqmcuqdcosancxsf gakcqjncqm
wgycwsfinr

“HicP’Fibd,”cywscyfgp,c“owfncgycnwscafhscqmcnwfncyqakcdqjcosis
ygakgak?”

“Gn’ycbfxxspc_NwscXfyycqmcFjkwigh_,”cyfgpcHicP’Fibd,c“zjncGcbqjxpa’n
ishshzsicgnc iq sixdrcOwd?cPqcdqjceaqocgn?”

“_NwscXfyycqmcFjkwigh_,”cywscis sfnsprc“Gcbqjxpa’ncnwgaecqmcnwscafhsr”

“Gn’ycfc.sidcagbscfgi,”cyfgpcHfidcUfasrc“G’hcyqiidcdqjcosiscaqncga
.qgbscnqagkwnr”

“Aqo,cHfidcUfas,”cyfgpcFjancEfns,c“pqa’ncfaaqdcHicP’FibdrcGcoqa’ncwf.s
wghcfaaqdspr”

Yssgakcnwfncfxxcosiscisfpdcnqcynfincywscyws wsipspcnwshcnqcnwscpqqi,
owsisckqqp-agkwncofycyfgp:

“Osxx,ckqqp-agkwn,cFjancEfns,cfapcnwfaeycmqicnwsc xsfyfancs.sagakr”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cKfzigsxrcKqqp-agkwn,cKisnnf!”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cFjancEfns,cfapcnwfaeycs.sicyqchjbwrcKqqp-agkwn,cFjan
Ujxgfr”

“Q,ckqqp-agkwn,cKisnnf,cGcpgpa’ncysscdqjr”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cHicP’FibdrcKqqp-agkwn,cHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfar”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cHgyycHqiefar”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cfkfgar”

“Kqqp-agkwn,cfxxrcYfmscwqhsr”

“Kqqp-agkwnrcKqqp-agkwnr”

NwschqiagakcofycyngxxcpfiercFcpjxxcdsxxqocxgkwncziqqpspcq.sicnwscwqjysy
fapcnwscig.si;cfapcnwscyedcysshspcnqczscpsybsapgakrcGncofycyxjywd
japsimqqn;cfapcqaxdcynisfeycfapc fnbwsycqmcyaqocxfdcqacnwsciqqmy,cqa
nwsc fif snycqmcnwscljfdcfapcqacnwscfisfcifgxgakyrcNwscxfh ycosiscyngxx
zjiagakcispxdcgacnwschjiedcfgicfap,cfbiqyycnwscig.si,cnwsc fxfbscqmcnws
MqjicBqjinycynqqpcqjnchsafbgakxdcfkfgayncnwscwsf.dcyedr

YwscofycofxegakcqaczsmqiscwghcognwcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibd,cwsicywqsycgacf
ziqoac fibsxcnjbespcjapsicqascfihcfapcwsicwfapycwqxpgakcwsicyegincj 
miqhcnwscyxjywrcYwscwfpcaqcxqaksicfadckifbscqmcfnngnjpsczjncKfzigsx’y
sdsycosiscyngxxczigkwncognwcwf  gasyyrcNwsczxqqpcosanczqjapgakcfxqak
wgyc.sgay;cfapcnwscnwqjkwnycosancigqngakcnwiqjkwcwgyczifga,c iqjp,
uqdmjx,cnsapsi,c.fxqiqjyr

Ywscofycofxegakcqaczsmqiscwghcyqcxgkwnxdcfapcyqcsisbncnwfncwscxqakspcnq
ijacfmnsicwsicaqgysxsyyxd,cbfnbwcwsiczdcnwscywqjxpsiycfapcyfdcyqhsnwgak
mqqxgywcfapcfmmsbngqafnscganqcwsicsfircYwscysshspcnqcwghcyqcmifgxcnwfn
wscxqakspcnqcpsmsapcwsicfkfgayncyqhsnwgakcfapcnwsacnqczscfxqascognw
wsircHqhsanycqmcnwsgicysbisncxgmscnqksnwsiczjiyncxgescynfiycj qacwgy
hshqidrcFcwsxgqniq scsa.sxq scofycxdgakczsygpscwgyczisfemfyn-bj cfapcws
ofycbfisyygakcgncognwcwgycwfaprcZgipycosiscnognnsigakcgacnwscg.dcfap
nwscyjaadcoszcqmcnwscbjinfgacofycywghhsigakcfxqakcnwscmxqqi:cwscbqjxp
aqncsfncmqicwf  gasyyrcNwsdcosiscynfapgakcqacnwscbiqopspc xfnmqihcfap
wscofyc xfbgakcfcngbesncgaygpscnwscofihc fxhcqmcwsickxq.srcWscofy
ynfapgakcognwcwsicgacnwscbqxp,cxqqegakcgacnwiqjkwcfckifnspcogapqocfncf
hfachfegakczqnnxsycgacfciqfigakcmjiafbsrcGncofyc.sidcbqxprcWsicmfbs,
mifkifancgacnwscbqxpcfgi,cofycljgnscbxqyscnqcwgy;cfapcyjppsaxdcws
bfxxspcqjncnqcnwschfacfncnwscmjiafbs:

“Gycnwscmgiscwqn,cygi?”

ZjncnwschfacbqjxpcaqncwsficognwcnwscaqgyscqmcnwscmjiafbsrcGncofycujyn
fycosxxrcWschgkwncwf.scfayosispcijpsxdr

Fcof.scqmcdsnchqiscnsapsicuqdcsybf spcmiqhcwgycwsfincfapcosancbqjiygak
gacofihcmxqqpcfxqakcwgycfinsigsyrcXgescnwscnsapsicmgiscqmcynfiychqhsany
qmcnwsgicxgmscnqksnwsi,cnwfncaqcqasceasocqmcqicoqjxpcs.siceaqocqm,
ziqescj qacfapcgxxjhgaspcwgychshqidrcWscxqakspcnqcisbfxxcnqcwsicnwqys
hqhsany,cnqchfescwsicmqiksncnwscdsfiycqmcnwsgicpjxxcstgynsabscnqksnwsi
fapcishshzsicqaxdcnwsgichqhsanycqmcsbynfydrcMqicnwscdsfiy,cwscmsxn,cwfp
aqncljsabwspcwgycyqjxcqicwsiyrcNwsgicbwgxpisa,cwgycoigngak,cwsi
wqjyswqxpcbfisycwfpcaqncljsabwspcfxxcnwsgicyqjxy’cnsapsicmgisrcGacqas
xsnnsicnwfncwscwfpcoignnsacnqcwsicnwsacwscwfpcyfgp:c“Owdcgycgncnwfn
oqipycxgescnwsyscysshcnqchscyqcpjxxcfapcbqxp?cGycgnczsbfjyscnwsiscgycaq
oqipcnsapsicsaqjkwcnqczscdqjicafhs?”

Xgescpgynfanchjygbcnwsyscoqipycnwfncwscwfpcoignnsacdsfiyczsmqiscosis
zqiascnqofipycwghcmiqhcnwsc fynrcWscxqakspcnqczscfxqascognwcwsircOwsa
nwscqnwsiycwfpckqascfofd,cowsacwscfapcywscosiscgacnwsgiciqqhcgacnws
wqnsx,cnwsacnwsdcoqjxpczscfxqascnqksnwsircWscoqjxpcbfxxcwsicyqmnxd:

“Kisnnf!”

 siwf ycywscoqjxpcaqncwsficfncqabs:cywscoqjxpczscjapisyygakrcNwsa
yqhsnwgakcgacwgyc.qgbscoqjxpcynigescwsircYwscoqjxpcnjiacfapcxqqecfn
wghrrrr

FncnwscbqiasicqmcOgasnf.siacYnissncnwsdchsncfcbfzrcWscofyckxfpcqmcgny
ifnnxgakcaqgyscfycgncyf.spcwghcmiqhcbqa.siyfngqarcYwscofycxqqegakcqjn
qmcnwscogapqocfapcysshspcngisprcNwscqnwsiycy qescqaxdcfcmsocoqipy,
 qgangakcqjncyqhsczjgxpgakcqicynissnrcNwscwqiysckfxxq spcfxqakcosfigxd
japsicnwschjiedchqiagakcyed,cpifkkgakcwgycqxpcifnnxgakczqtcfmnsicwgy
wssxy,cfapcKfzigsxcofycfkfgacgacfcbfzcognwcwsi,ckfxxq gakcnqcbfnbwcnws
zqfn,ckfxxq gakcnqcnwsgicwqasdhqqar

Fycnwscbfzcpiq.scfbiqyycQ’BqaasxxcZigpkscHgyycQ’Bfxxfkwfacyfgp:

“Nwsdcyfdcdqjcas.sicbiqyycQ’BqaasxxcZigpkscognwqjncyssgakcfcowgns
wqiysr”

“Gcysscfcowgnschfacnwgycnghs,”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

“Owsis?”cfyespcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibdr

Kfzigsxc qganspcnqcnwscynfnjs,cqacowgbwcxfdc fnbwsycqmcyaqorcNwsacws
aqppspcmfhgxgfixdcnqcgncfapcof.spcwgycwfapr

“Kqqp-agkwn,cPfa,”cwscyfgpckfgxdr

Owsacnwscbfzcpisocj czsmqiscnwscwqnsx,cKfzigsxcujh spcqjncfap,cgacy gns
qmcHicZfinsxxcP’Fibd’yc iqnsyn,c fgpcnwscpig.sircWsckf.scnwschfacf
ywgxxgakcq.sicwgycmfisrcNwschfacyfxjnspcfapcyfgp:

“Fc iqy siqjycAsocDsficnqcdqj,cygir”

“Nwscyfhscnqcdqj,”cyfgpcKfzigsxcbqipgfxxdr

Ywscxsfaspcmqicfchqhsancqacwgycfihcgacksnngakcqjncqmcnwscbfzcfapcowgxs
ynfapgakcfncnwscbjizynqas,czgppgakcnwscqnwsiyckqqp-agkwnrcYwscxsfasp
xgkwnxdcqacwgycfih,cfycxgkwnxdcfycowsacywscwfpcpfabspcognwcwghcfcmso
wqjiyczsmqisrcWscwfpcmsxnc iqjpcfapcwf  dcnwsa,cwf  dcnwfncywscofycwgy,
 iqjpcqmcwsickifbscfapcogmsxdcbfiigfksrcZjncaqo,cfmnsicnwscegapxgak
fkfgacqmcyqchfadchshqigsy,cnwscmgiyncnqjbwcqmcwsiczqpd,chjygbfxcfap
ynifakscfapc simjhsp,cysancnwiqjkwcwghcfcessac fakcqmcxjynrcJapsicbq.si
qmcwsicygxsabscwsc isyyspcwsicfihcbxqysxdcnqcwgycygps;cfap,cfycnwsd
ynqqpcfncnwscwqnsxcpqqi,cwscmsxncnwfncnwsdcwfpcsybf spcmiqhcnwsgicxg.sy
fapcpjngsy,csybf spcmiqhcwqhscfapcmigsapycfapcijacfofdcnqksnwsicognw
ogxpcfapcifpgfancwsfinycnqcfcasocfp.sanjisr

FacqxpchfacofycpqvgakcgacfckisfncwqqpspcbwfgicgacnwscwfxxrcWscxgncf
bfapxscgacnwscqmmgbscfapcosanczsmqiscnwshcnqcnwscynfgiyrcNwsdcmqxxqosp
wghcgacygxsabs,cnwsgicmssncmfxxgakcgacyqmncnwjpycqacnwscnwgbexd
bfi snspcynfgiyrcYwschqjanspcnwscynfgiyczswgapcnwsc qinsi,cwsicwsfp
zqospcgacnwscfybsan,cwsicmifgxcywqjxpsiycbji.spcfycognwcfczjipsa,cwsi
yeginckgincngkwnxdcfzqjncwsircWscbqjxpcwf.scmxjakcwgycfihycfzqjncwsi
wg ycfapcwsxpcwsicyngxx,cmqicwgycfihycosiscnishzxgakcognwcpsygiscnq
ysgvscwsicfapcqaxdcnwscynisyycqmcwgycafgxycfkfgayncnwsc fxhycqmcwgy
wfapycwsxpcnwscogxpcgh jxyscqmcwgyczqpdcgacbwsbercNwsc qinsicwfxnspcqa
nwscynfgiycnqcysnnxscwgyckjnnsigakcbfapxsrcNwsdcwfxnspcnqqcqacnwscyns y
zsxqocwghrcGacnwscygxsabscKfzigsxcbqjxpcwsficnwscmfxxgakcqmcnwschqxnsa
oftcganqcnwscnifdcfapcnwscnwjh gakcqmcwgycqoacwsfincfkfgayncwgycigzyr

Nwsc qinsicxspcnwshcfxqakcfcbqiigpqicfapcq saspcfcpqqircNwsacwscysncwgy
jaynfzxscbfapxscpqoacqacfcnqgxsn-nfzxscfapcfyespcfncowfncwqjicnwsdcosis
nqczscbfxxspcgacnwschqiagakr

“Sgkwn,”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

Nwsc qinsic qganspcnqcnwscnf cqmcnwscsxsbnigb-xgkwncfapczskfacf
hjnnsispcf qxqkdczjncKfzigsxcbjncwghcywqinr

“Oscpqa’ncofancfadcxgkwnrcOscwf.scxgkwncsaqjkwcmiqhcnwscynissnrcFapcG
yfd,”cwscfppsp,c qgangakcnqcnwscbfapxs,c“dqjchgkwncishq.scnwfncwfapyqhs
fingbxs,cxgescfckqqpchfar”

Nwsc qinsicnqqecj cwgycbfapxscfkfga,czjncyxqoxdcmqicwscofycyji igyspczd
yjbwcfcaq.sxcgpsfrcNwsacwschjhzxspckqqp-agkwncfapcosancqjnrcKfzigsx
ywqncnwscxqbecnqr

Fckwqynxdcxgkwncmiqhcnwscynissncxfh cxfdcgacfcxqakcywfmncmiqhcqas
ogapqocnqcnwscpqqircKfzigsxcnwisocwgycq.sibqfncfapcwfncqacfcbqjbwcfap
biqyyspcnwsciqqhcnqofipycnwscogapqorcWscxqqespcpqoacganqcnwscynissncga
qipsicnwfncwgycshqngqachgkwncbfxhcfcxgnnxsrcNwsacwscnjiaspcfapcxsfasp
fkfgayncfcbwsyncqmcpifosiycognwcwgyczfbecnqcnwscxgkwnrcYwscwfpcnfesa
qmmcwsicwfncfapcbxqfecfapcofycynfapgakczsmqiscfcxfikscyogakgakchgiiqi,
jawqqegakcwsicofgynrcKfzigsxc fjyspcmqicfcmsochqhsany,cofnbwgakcwsi,
fapcnwsacyfgp:

“Kisnnf!”

Ywscnjiaspcfofdcmiqhcnwschgiiqicyxqoxdcfapcofxespcfxqakcnwscywfmncqm
xgkwncnqofipycwghrcWsicmfbscxqqespcyqcysigqjycfapcosfidcnwfncnwscoqipy
oqjxpcaqnc fyycKfzigsx’ycxg yrcAq,cgncofycaqncnwschqhsancdsnr

“Dqjcxqqespcngisp,”cwscyfgpr

“Gcfhcfcxgnnxs,”cywscfayosispr

“Dqjcpqa’ncmssxcgxxcqicosfe?”

“Aq,cngisp:cnwfn’ycfxxr”

Ywscosancqacnqcnwscogapqocfapcynqqpcnwsis,cxqqegakcqjnrcKfzigsxcofgnsp
fkfgacfapcnwsa,cmsfigakcnwfncpgmmgpsabscofycfzqjncnqcbqaljsicwgh,cws
yfgpcfzij nxd:

“Zdcnwscofd,cKisnnf!”

“Owfncgycgn?”

“Dqjceaqocnwfnc qqicmsxxqocHfxgay?”cwscyfgpcljgbexdr

“DsyrcOwfncfzqjncwgh?”

“Osxx,c qqicmsxxqo,cws’ycfcpsbsancyqincqmcbwf cfmnsicfxx,”cbqangajsp
Kfzigsxcgacfcmfxysc.qgbsrc“Wsckf.schsczfbecnwfncyq.sisgkacGcxsancwgh,
fapcGcpgpa’ncst sbncgn,cisfxxdrcGn’ycfc gndcwscoqjxpa’ncess cfofdcmiqh
nwfncZiqoas,czsbfjyscws’ycaqncfczfpcmsxxqo,cisfxxdr”

WscofycnishzxgakcaqocognwcfaaqdfabsrcOwdcpgpcywscysshcyqcfzynifbnsp?cWs
pgpcaqnceaqocwqocwscbqjxpczskgarcOfycywscfaaqdsp,cnqq,cfzqjncyqhsnwgak?
Gmcywscoqjxpcqaxdcnjiacnqcwghcqicbqhscnqcwghcqmcwsicqoacfbbqip!cNqcnfes
wsicfycywscofycoqjxpczsczijnfxrcAq,cwschjyncysscyqhscfipqjicgacwsicsdsy
mgiynrcWscxqakspcnqczschfynsicqmcwsicynifakschqqpr

“Owsacpgpcdqjcxsapcwghcnwsc qjap?”cywscfyesp,cfmnsicfc fjysr

Kfzigsxcyniq.scnqcisynifgacwghysxmcmiqhczisfegakcqjncganqczijnfx
xfakjfkscfzqjncnwscyqnngywcHfxgaycfapcwgyc qjaprcWscxqakspcnqcbidcnq
wsicmiqhcwgycyqjx,cnqcbijywcwsiczqpdcfkfgayncwgy,cnqcq.sihfynsicwsir
Zjncwscyfgp:

“Q,cfncBwigynhfy,cowsacwscq saspcnwfncxgnnxscBwigynhfy-bfipcywq cga
WsaidcYnissnr”

Wscofycgacyjbwcfcms.sicqmcifkscfapcpsygiscnwfncwscpgpcaqncwsficwsicbqhs
miqhcnwscogapqorcYwscynqqpczsmqiscwghcmqicfacgaynfan,cxqqegakcfncwgh
ynifaksxdrcNwsa,cyjppsaxdcifgygakcwsiysxmcqacng nqscfapcisyngakcwsi
wfapycxgkwnxdcqacwgycywqjxpsiy,cywscegyyspcwghr

“Dqjcfiscfc.sidcksasiqjyc siyqa,cKfzigsx,”cywscyfgpr

Kfzigsx,cnishzxgakcognwcpsxgkwncfncwsicyjppsacegyycfapcfncnws
ljfganasyycqmcwsic wifys,c jncwgycwfapycqacwsicwfgicfapczskfacyhqqnwgak
gnczfbe,cybfibsxdcnqjbwgakcgncognwcwgycmgaksiyrcNwscofywgakcwfpchfpscgn
mgascfapczigxxgfanrcWgycwsfincofyczighhgakcq.sicognwcwf  gasyyrcUjyn
owsacwscofycogywgakcmqicgncywscwfpcbqhscnqcwghcqmcwsicqoacfbbqipr
 siwf ycwsicnwqjkwnycwfpczssacijaagakcognwcwgyrc siwf ycywscwfpcmsxn
nwscgh snjqjycpsygiscnwfncofycgacwgh,cfapcnwsacnwscdgsxpgakchqqpcwfp
bqhscj qacwsircAqocnwfncywscwfpcmfxxsacnqcwghcyqcsfygxd,cwscoqapsisp
owdcwscwfpczssacyqcpgmmgpsanr

Wscynqqp,cwqxpgakcwsicwsfpczsnossacwgycwfapyrcNwsa,cyxg  gakcqascfih
yogmnxdcfzqjncwsiczqpdcfapcpifogakcwsicnqofipycwgh,cwscyfgpcyqmnxd:

“Kisnnf,cpsfi,cowfncfiscdqjcnwgaegakcfzqjn?”

YwscpgpcaqncfayosicaqicdgsxpcowqxxdcnqcwgycfihrcWscyfgpcfkfga,cyqmnxd:

“Nsxxchscowfncgncgy,cKisnnfrcGcnwgaecGceaqocowfncgycnwschfnnsircPqcG
eaqo?”

YwscpgpcaqncfayosicfncqabsrcNwsacywscyfgpcgacfacqjnzjiyncqmcnsfiy:

“Q,cGcfhcnwgaegakcfzqjncnwfncyqak,c_NwscXfyycqmcFjkwigh_r”

Ywscziqescxqqyscmiqhcwghcfapcifacnqcnwsczspcfap,cnwiqogakcwsicfihy
fbiqyycnwsczsp-ifgx,cwgpcwsicmfbsrcKfzigsxcynqqpcynqbe-yngxxcmqicf
hqhsancgacfynqagywhsancfapcnwsacmqxxqospcwsircFycwsc fyyspcgacnwscofd
qmcnwscbws.fx-kxfyycwscbfjkwncygkwncqmcwghysxmcgacmjxxcxsaknw,cwgy
ziqfp,cosxx-mgxxspcywgin-miqan,cnwscmfbscowqyscst isyygqacfxofdy
 jvvxspcwghcowsacwscyfocgncgacfchgiiqicfapcwgyckxghhsigakckgxn-ighhsp
sdskxfyysyrcWscwfxnspcfcmsoc fbsycmiqhcwsicfapcyfgp:

“Owfncfzqjncnwscyqak?cOwdcpqsycnwfnchfescdqjcbid?”

Ywscifgyspcwsicwsfpcmiqhcwsicfihycfapcpigspcwsicsdsycognwcnwsczfbecqm
wsicwfapcxgescfcbwgxprcFcegapsicaqnscnwfacwscwfpcgansapspcosancganqcwgy
.qgbsr

“Owd,cKisnnf?”cwscfyespr

“Gcfhcnwgaegakcfzqjncfc siyqacxqakcfkqcowqcjyspcnqcygakcnwfncyqakr”

“Fapcowqcofycnwsc siyqacxqakcfkq?”cfyespcKfzigsx,cyhgxgakr

“Gncofycfc siyqacGcjyspcnqceaqocgacKfxofdcowsacGcofycxg.gakcognwchd
kifaphqnwsi,”cywscyfgpr

Nwscyhgxsc fyyspcfofdcmiqhcKfzigsx’ycmfbsrcFcpjxxcfaksiczskfacnqckfnwsi
fkfgacfncnwsczfbecqmcwgychgapcfapcnwscpjxxcmgisycqmcwgycxjynczskfacnq
kxqocfakigxdcgacwgyc.sgayr

“Yqhsqascdqjcosiscgacxq.scognw?”cwscfyespcgiqagbfxxdr

“GncofycfcdqjakczqdcGcjyspcnqceaqo,”cywscfayosisp,c“afhspcHgbwfsx
MjisdrcWscjyspcnqcygakcnwfncyqak,c_NwscXfyycqmcFjkwigh_rcWscofyc.sid
psxgbfnsr”

KfzigsxcofycygxsanrcWscpgpcaqncogywcwsicnqcnwgaecnwfncwscofycgansisynsp
gacnwgycpsxgbfnsczqdr

“Gcbfacysscwghcyqc xfgaxd,”cywscyfgpcfmnsicfchqhsanrc“Yjbwcsdsycfycws
wfp:czgk,cpfiecsdsy!cFapcyjbwcfacst isyygqacgacnwsh—facst isyygqa!”

“Qcnwsa,cdqjcosiscgacxq.scognwcwgh?”cyfgpcKfzigsxr

“Gcjyspcnqckqcqjncofxegakcognwcwgh,”cywscyfgp,c“owsacGcofycgacKfxofdr”

FcnwqjkwncmxsocfbiqyycKfzigsx’ychgapr

“ siwf ycnwfncofycowdcdqjcofanspcnqckqcnqcKfxofdcognwcnwfncG.qiyckgix?”
wscyfgpcbqxpxdr

Ywscxqqespcfncwghcfapcfyespcgacyji igys:

“Owfncmqi?”

WsicsdsychfpscKfzigsxcmssxcfoeofiprcWscywijkkspcwgycywqjxpsiycfapcyfgp:

“WqocpqcGceaqo?cNqcysscwgh,c siwf yr”

Ywscxqqespcfofdcmiqhcwghcfxqakcnwscywfmncqmcxgkwncnqofipycnwscogapqocga
ygxsabsr

“Wscgycpsfp,”cywscyfgpcfncxsaknwrc“Wscpgspcowsacwscofycqaxdcys.sanssar
Gya’ncgncfcnsiigzxscnwgakcnqcpgscyqcdqjakcfycnwfn?”

“Owfncofycws?”cfyespcKfzigsx,cyngxxcgiqagbfxxdr

“Wscofycgacnwsckfyoqiey,”cywscyfgpr

Kfzigsxcmsxncwjhgxgfnspczdcnwscmfgxjiscqmcwgycgiqadcfapczdcnws
s.qbfngqacqmcnwgycmgkjiscmiqhcnwscpsfp,cfczqdcgacnwsckfyoqieyrcOwgxscws
wfpczssacmjxxcqmchshqigsycqmcnwsgicysbisncxgmscnqksnwsi,cmjxxcqm
nsapsiasyycfapcuqdcfapcpsygis,cywscwfpczssacbqh figakcwghcgacwsichgap
ognwcfaqnwsircFcywfhsmjxcbqaybgqjyasyycqmcwgycqoac siyqacfyyfgxspcwghr
Wscyfocwghysxmcfycfcxjpgbiqjycmgkjis,cfbngakcfycfc saadzqdcmqicwgy
fjany,cfcasi.qjy,cosxx-hsfagakcysanghsanfxgyn,cqifngakcnqc.jxkfigfay
fapcgpsfxgygakcwgycqoacbxqoagywcxjyny,cnwsc gngfzxscmfnjqjycmsxxqocws
wfpcbfjkwncfckxgh yscqmcgacnwschgiiqircGayngabng.sxdcwscnjiaspcwgyczfbe
hqiscnqcnwscxgkwncxsyncywschgkwncysscnwscywfhscnwfnczjiaspcj qacwgy
mqiswsfpr

Wscnigspcnqcess cj cwgycnqascqmcbqxpcgansiiqkfngqa,czjncwgyc.qgbscowsa
wscy qescofycwjhzxscfapcgapgmmsisanr

“Gcyj  qyscdqjcosiscgacxq.scognwcnwgycHgbwfsxcMjisd,cKisnnf,”cwscyfgpr

“Gcofyckisfncognwcwghcfncnwfncnghs,”cywscyfgpr

Wsic.qgbscofyc.sgxspcfapcyfprcKfzigsx,cmssxgakcaqocwqoc.fgacgncoqjxpczs
nqcnidcnqcxsfpcwsicowgnwsicwscwfpc ji qysp,cbfisyyspcqascqmcwsicwfapy
fapcyfgp,cfxyqcyfpxd:

“Fapcowfncpgpcwscpgscqmcyqcdqjak,cKisnnf?cBqayjh ngqa,cofycgn?”

“Gcnwgaecwscpgspcmqichs,”cywscfayosispr

Fc.fkjscnsiiqicysgvspcKfzigsxcfncnwgycfayosicfycgm,cfncnwfncwqjicowsa
wscwfpcwq spcnqcnigjh w,cyqhscgh fx fzxscfapc.gapgbng.sczsgakcofy
bqhgakcfkfgayncwgh,ckfnwsigakcmqibsycfkfgayncwghcgacgnyc.fkjscoqixpr
Zjncwscywqqecwghysxmcmisscqmcgncognwcfacsmmqincqmcisfyqacfapcbqangajsp
nqcbfisyycwsicwfaprcWscpgpcaqncljsyngqacwsicfkfgacmqicwscmsxncnwfncyws
oqjxpcnsxxcwghcqmcwsiysxmrcWsicwfapcofycofihcfapchqgyn:cgncpgpcaqn
isy qapcnqcwgycnqjbwczjncwscbqangajspcnqcbfisyycgncujyncfycwscwfp
bfisyyspcwsicmgiyncxsnnsicnqcwghcnwfncy igakchqiagakr

“Gncofycgacnwscogansi,”cywscyfgp,c“fzqjncnwsczskgaagakcqmcnwscogansi
owsacGcofyckqgakcnqcxsf.schdckifaphqnwsi’ycfapcbqhscj cwsiscnqcnws
bqa.sanrcFapcwscofycgxxcfncnwscnghscgacwgycxqpkgakycgacKfxofdcfap
oqjxpa’nczscxsncqjncfapcwgyc sq xscgacQjkwnsifipcosiscoignnsacnqrcWs
ofycgacpsbxgas,cnwsdcyfgp,cqicyqhsnwgakcxgescnwfnrcGcas.siceaso
igkwnxdr”

Ywsc fjyspcmqicfchqhsancfapcygkwspr

“ qqicmsxxqo,”cywscyfgprc“Wscofyc.sidcmqapcqmchscfapcwscofycyjbwcf
ksanxsczqdrcOscjyspcnqckqcqjncnqksnwsi,cofxegak,cdqjceaqo,cKfzigsx,
xgescnwscofdcnwsdcpqcgacnwscbqjanidrcWscofyckqgakcnqcynjpdcygakgakcqaxd
mqicwgycwsfxnwrcWscwfpcfc.sidckqqpc.qgbs,c qqicHgbwfsxcMjisdr”

“Osxx;cfapcnwsa?”cfyespcKfzigsxr

“Fapcnwsacowsacgncbfhscnqcnwscnghscmqichscnqcxsf.scKfxofdcfapcbqhscj 
nqcnwscbqa.sancwscofychjbwcoqiyscfapcGcoqjxpa’nczscxsncysscwghcyqcG
oiqnscwghcfcxsnnsicyfdgakcGcofyckqgakcj cnqcPjzxgacfapcoqjxpczsczfbecga
nwscyjhhsicfapcwq gakcwscoqjxpczsczsnnsicnwsar”

Ywsc fjyspcmqicfchqhsancnqcksncwsic.qgbscjapsicbqaniqxcfapcnwsacosan
qa:

“NwsacnwscagkwnczsmqiscGcxsmncGcofycgachdckifaphqnwsi’ycwqjyscgacAjay’
Gyxfap,c fbegakcj ,cfapcGcwsfipckif.sxcnwiqoacj cfkfgayncnwscogapqor
NwscogapqocofycyqcosncGcbqjxpa’ncysscyqcGcifacpqoaynfgiycfycGcofycfap
yxg  spcqjncnwsczfbecganqcnwsckfipsacfapcnwsiscofycnwsc qqicmsxxqocfn
nwscsapcqmcnwsckfipsa,cywg.sigakr”

“Fapcpgpcdqjcaqncnsxxcwghcnqckqczfbe?”cfyespcKfzigsxr

“Gcgh xqispcqmcwghcnqckqcwqhscfncqabscfapcnqxpcwghcwscoqjxpcksncwgy
psfnwcgacnwscifgarcZjncwscyfgpcwscpgpcaqncofancnqcxg.srcGcbfacysscwgy
sdsycfycosxxcfycosxx!cWscofycynfapgakcfncnwscsapcqmcnwscofxxcowsis
nwsiscofycfcnissr”

“Fapcpgpcwsckqcwqhs?”cfyespcKfzigsxr

“Dsy,cwscosancwqhsrcFapcowsacGcofycqaxdcfcossecgacnwscbqa.sancwscpgsp
fapcwscofyczjigspcgacQjkwnsifipcowsiscwgyc sq xscbfhscmiqhrcQ,cnwscpfd
Gcwsfipcnwfn,cnwfncwscofycpsfp!”

Ywscynq  sp,cbwqegakcognwcyqzycfap,cq.sibqhsczdcshqngqa,cmxjakcwsiysxm
mfbscpqoaofipcqacnwsczsp,cyqzzgakcgacnwscljgxnrcKfzigsxcwsxpcwsicwfap
mqicfchqhsancxqaksi,cgiisyqxjnsxd,cfapcnwsa,cywdcqmcganijpgakcqacwsi
kigsm,cxsncgncmfxxcksanxdcfapcofxespcljgsnxdcnqcnwscogapqor



Ywscofycmfyncfyxss r

Kfzigsx,cxsfagakcqacwgycsxzqo,cxqqespcmqicfcmsochqhsanycjaisysanmjxxd
qacwsicnfakxspcwfgicfapcwfxm-q sachqjnw,cxgynsagakcnqcwsicpss -pifoa
zisfnwrcYqcywscwfpcwfpcnwfnciqhfabscgacwsicxgms:cfchfacwfpcpgspcmqicwsi
yfesrcGncwfipxdc fgaspcwghcaqocnqcnwgaecwqoc qqicfc fincws,cwsi
wjyzfap,cwfpc xfdspcgacwsicxgmsrcWscofnbwspcwsicowgxscywscyxs ncfy
nwqjkwcwscfapcywscwfpcas.sicxg.spcnqksnwsicfychfacfapcogmsrcWgycbjigqjy
sdsycisynspcxqakcj qacwsicmfbscfapcqacwsicwfgi:cfap,cfycwscnwqjkwncqm
owfncywschjyncwf.sczssacnwsa,cgacnwfncnghscqmcwsicmgiynckgixgywczsfjnd,
fcynifaks,cmigsapxdc gndcmqicwsicsansispcwgycyqjxrcWscpgpcaqncxgescnq
yfdcs.sacnqcwghysxmcnwfncwsicmfbscofycaqcxqaksiczsfjngmjxczjncwsceaso
nwfncgncofycaqcxqaksicnwscmfbscmqicowgbwcHgbwfsxcMjisdcwfpczif.sp
psfnwr

 siwf ycywscwfpcaqncnqxpcwghcfxxcnwscynqidrcWgycsdsychq.spcnqcnwscbwfgi
q.sicowgbwcywscwfpcnwiqoacyqhscqmcwsicbxqnwsyrcFc snngbqfncynigak
pfakxspcnqcnwscmxqqircQasczqqncynqqpcj igkwn,cgnycxgh cj  sicmfxxsa
pqoa:cnwscmsxxqocqmcgncxfdcj qacgnycygpsrcWscoqapsispcfncwgycigqncqm
shqngqaycqmcfacwqjiczsmqisrcMiqhcowfncwfpcgnc iqbsspsp?cMiqhcwgycfjan’y
yj  si,cmiqhcwgycqoacmqqxgywcy ssbw,cmiqhcnwscogascfapcpfabgak,cnws
hsiid-hfegakcowsacyfdgakckqqp-agkwncgacnwscwfxx,cnwsc xsfyjiscqmcnws
ofxecfxqakcnwscig.sicgacnwscyaqorc qqicFjancUjxgf!cYws,cnqq,coqjxpcyqqa
zscfcywfpscognwcnwscywfpscqmc fnigbecHqiefacfapcwgycwqiysrcWscwfp
bfjkwncnwfncwfkkfipcxqqecj qacwsicmfbscmqicfchqhsancowsacywscofy
ygakgakc_FiifdspcmqicnwscZigpfx_rcYqqa,c siwf y,cwscoqjxpczscygnngakcga
nwfncyfhscpifogak-iqqh,cpisyyspcgaczxfbe,cwgycygxecwfncqacwgyceassyr
NwsczxgapycoqjxpczscpifoacpqoacfapcFjancEfnscoqjxpczscygnngakczsygps
wgh,cbidgakcfapczxqogakcwsicaqyscfapcnsxxgakcwghcwqocUjxgfcwfpcpgsprcWs
oqjxpcbfyncfzqjncgacwgychgapcmqicyqhscoqipycnwfnchgkwncbqayqxscwsi,cfap
oqjxpcmgapcqaxdcxfhscfapcjysxsyycqasyrcDsy,cdsy:cnwfncoqjxpcwf  sac.sid
yqqar

NwscfgicqmcnwsciqqhcbwgxxspcwgycywqjxpsiyrcWscynisnbwspcwghysxm
bfjngqjyxdcfxqakcjapsicnwscywssnycfapcxfdcpqoaczsygpscwgycogmsrcQasczd
qascnwsdcosiscfxxczsbqhgakcywfpsyrcZsnnsic fyyczqxpxdcganqcnwfncqnwsi
oqixp,cgacnwscmjxxckxqidcqmcyqhsc fyygqa,cnwfacmfpscfapcognwsicpgyhfxxd
ognwcfksrcWscnwqjkwncqmcwqocywscowqcxfdczsygpscwghcwfpcxqbespcgacwsi
wsfincmqicyqchfadcdsfiycnwfncghfkscqmcwsicxq.si’ycsdsycowsacwscwfpcnqxp
wsicnwfncwscpgpcaqncogywcnqcxg.sr

KsasiqjycnsfiycmgxxspcKfzigsx’ycsdsyrcWscwfpcas.sicmsxncxgescnwfn
wghysxmcnqofipycfadcoqhfaczjncwsceasocnwfncyjbwcfcmssxgakchjynczscxq.sr
Nwscnsfiyckfnwsispchqiscnwgbexdcgacwgycsdsycfapcgacnwsc fingfxcpfieasyy
wscghfkgaspcwscyfocnwscmqihcqmcfcdqjakchfacynfapgakcjapsicfcpig  gak
nissrcQnwsicmqihycosiscasfircWgycyqjxcwfpcf  iqfbwspcnwfnciskgqacowsis
posxxcnwsc.fyncwqynycqmcnwscpsfprcWscofycbqaybgqjycqm,czjncbqjxpcaqn
f  iswsap,cnwsgicofdofipcfapcmxgbesigakcstgynsabsrcWgycqoacgpsangndcofy
mfpgakcqjncganqcfckisdcgh fx fzxscoqixp:cnwscyqxgpcoqixpcgnysxmcowgbw
nwsyscpsfpcwfpcqascnghscisfispcfapcxg.spcgacofycpgyyqx.gakcfap
pogapxgakr

Fcmsocxgkwncnf ycj qacnwsc faschfpscwghcnjiacnqcnwscogapqorcGncwfp
zskjacnqcyaqocfkfgarcWscofnbwspcyxss gxdcnwscmxfesy,cygx.sicfapcpfie,
mfxxgakcqzxgljsxdcfkfgayncnwscxfh xgkwnrcNwscnghscwfpcbqhscmqicwghcnq
ysncqjncqacwgycuqjiasdcosynofiprcDsy,cnwscasoy f siycosiscigkwn:cyaqo
ofycksasifxcfxxcq.sicGisxfaprcGncofycmfxxgakcqacs.sidc fincqmcnwscpfie
bsanifxc xfga,cqacnwscnissxsyycwgxxy,cmfxxgakcyqmnxdcj qacnwscZqkcqm
Fxxsacfap,cmfinwsicosynofip,cyqmnxdcmfxxgakcganqcnwscpfiechjngaqjy
Ywfaaqacof.syrcGncofycmfxxgak,cnqq,cj qacs.sidc fincqmcnwscxqasxd
bwjibwdfipcqacnwscwgxxcowsiscHgbwfsxcMjisdcxfdczjigsprcGncxfdcnwgbexd
pigmnspcqacnwscbiqqespcbiqyysycfapcwsfpynqasy,cqacnwscy sfiycqmcnws
xgnnxsckfns,cqacnwsczfiisacnwqiayrcWgycyqjxcyoqqaspcyxqoxdcfycwscwsfip
nwscyaqocmfxxgakcmfganxdcnwiqjkwcnwscjag.siyscfapcmfganxdcmfxxgak,cxges
nwscpsybsancqmcnwsgicxfyncsap,cj qacfxxcnwscxg.gakcfapcnwscpsfpr


Sapcqmcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcSZqqecqmcPjzxgasiy,czdcUfhsycUqdbs

***cSAPcQMcNWGYc IQUSBNcKJNSAZSIKcSZQQEcPJZXGASIYc***

*****cNwgycmgxscywqjxpczscafhspc2814-0rntncqic2814-0rvg c*****
Nwgycfapcfxxcfyyqbgfnspcmgxsycqmc.figqjycmqihfnycogxxczscmqjapcga:
ccccccccwnn ://ooorkjnsazsikrqik/2/8/1/2814/

 iqpjbspczdcPf.gpcIssp,cEfiqxc gsnivfe,cfapcPf.gpcOgpksi

J pfnspcspgngqaycogxxcis xfbscnwsc is.gqjycqas--nwscqxpcspgngqaycogxx
zscisafhspr

Bisfngakcnwscoqieycmiqhc igancspgngqaycaqnc iqnsbnspczdcJrYrcbq digkwn
xfochsfaycnwfncaqcqascqoaycfcJagnspcYnfnsycbq digkwncgacnwsyscoqiey,
yqcnwscMqjapfngqac(fapcdqj!)cbfacbq dcfapcpgynigzjnscgncgacnwscJagnsp
Ynfnsycognwqjnc sihgyygqacfapcognwqjnc fdgakcbq digkwn
iqdfxngsyrcY sbgfxcijxsy,cysncmqinwcgacnwscKsasifxcNsihycqmcJysc fin
qmcnwgycxgbsays,cf  xdcnqcbq dgakcfapcpgynigzjngakc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieycnqc iqnsbncnwsc IQUSBNcKJNSAZSIK-nh
bqabs ncfapcnifpshfierc iqusbncKjnsazsikcgycfciskgynsispcnifpshfie,
fapchfdcaqnczscjyspcgmcdqjcbwfikscmqicnwscsZqqey,cjaxsyycdqjcisbsg.s
y sbgmgbc sihgyygqarcGmcdqjcpqcaqncbwfikscfadnwgakcmqicbq gsycqmcnwgy
sZqqe,cbqh xdgakcognwcnwscijxsycgyc.sidcsfydrcDqjchfdcjyscnwgycsZqqe
mqicasfixdcfadc ji qyscyjbwcfycbisfngqacqmcpsig.fng.scoqiey,cis qiny,
 simqihfabsycfapcisysfibwrcNwsdchfdczschqpgmgspcfapc iganspcfapckg.sa
fofd--dqjchfdcpqc ifbngbfxxdcFADNWGAKcgacnwscJagnspcYnfnsycognwcsZqqey
aqnc iqnsbnspczdcJrYrcbq digkwncxforcIspgynigzjngqacgycyjzusbncnqcnws
nifpshfiecxgbsays,csy sbgfxxdcbqhhsibgfxcispgynigzjngqar

YNFIN:cMJXXcXGBSAYS

NWScMJXXc IQUSBNcKJNSAZSIKcXGBSAYS
 XSFYScISFPcNWGYcZSMQIScDQJcPGYNIGZJNScQIcJYScNWGYcOQIE

Nqc iqnsbncnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhchgyygqacqmc iqhqngakcnwscmiss
pgynigzjngqacqmcsxsbniqagbcoqiey,czdcjygakcqicpgynigzjngakcnwgycoqie
(qicfadcqnwsicoqiecfyyqbgfnspcgacfadcofdcognwcnwsc wifysc" iqusbn
Kjnsazsik"),cdqjcfkisscnqcbqh xdcognwcfxxcnwscnsihycqmcnwscMjxx
 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcXgbsayscf.fgxfzxscognwcnwgycmgxscqicqaxgascfn
ooorkjnsazsikrqik/xgbsaysr

Ysbngqac1rcKsasifxcNsihycqmcJyscfapcIspgynigzjngakc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiey

1rFrcZdcisfpgakcqicjygakcfadc fincqmcnwgyc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
sxsbniqagbcoqie,cdqjcgapgbfnscnwfncdqjcwf.scisfp,cjapsiynfap,cfkisscnq
fapcfbbs ncfxxcnwscnsihycqmcnwgycxgbsayscfapcgansxxsbnjfxc iq sind
(nifpshfie/bq digkwn)cfkisshsanrcGmcdqjcpqcaqncfkisscnqcfzgpsczdcfxx
nwscnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsan,cdqjchjyncbsfyscjygakcfapcisnjiacqi
psyniqdcfxxcbq gsycqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieycgacdqji
 qyysyygqarcGmcdqjc fgpcfcmsscmqicqznfgagakcfcbq dcqmcqicfbbsyycnqcf
 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiecfapcdqjcpqcaqncfkisscnqczsczqjap
zdcnwscnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsan,cdqjchfdcqznfgacfcismjapcmiqhcnws
 siyqacqicsangndcnqcowqhcdqjc fgpcnwscmsscfycysncmqinwcgac fifkif w
1rSr8r

1rZrc" iqusbncKjnsazsik"cgycfciskgynsispcnifpshfiercGnchfdcqaxdczs
jyspcqacqicfyyqbgfnspcgacfadcofdcognwcfacsxsbniqagbcoqieczdc sq xscowq
fkisscnqczsczqjapczdcnwscnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsanrcNwsiscfiscfcmso
nwgakycnwfncdqjcbfacpqcognwchqync iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiey
s.sacognwqjncbqh xdgakcognwcnwscmjxxcnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsanrcYss
 fifkif wc1rBczsxqorcNwsiscfiscfcxqncqmcnwgakycdqjcbfacpqcognwc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieycgmcdqjcmqxxqocnwscnsihycqmcnwgy
fkisshsancfapcwsx c isysi.scmisscmjnjiscfbbsyycnqc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
sxsbniqagbcoqieyrcYssc fifkif wc1rSczsxqor

1rBrcNwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqac("nws
Mqjapfngqa"cqic KXFM),cqoaycfcbqh gxfngqacbq digkwncgacnwscbqxxsbngqa
qmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieyrcAsfixdcfxxcnwscgapg.gpjfx
oqieycgacnwscbqxxsbngqacfiscgacnwsc jzxgbcpqhfgacgacnwscJagnsp
YnfnsyrcGmcfacgapg.gpjfxcoqiecgycja iqnsbnspczdcbq digkwncxfocgacnws
JagnspcYnfnsycfapcdqjcfiscxqbfnspcgacnwscJagnspcYnfnsy,coscpqcaqn
bxfghcfcigkwncnqc is.sancdqjcmiqhcbq dgak,cpgynigzjngak,c simqihgak,
pgy xfdgakcqicbisfngakcpsig.fng.scoqieyczfyspcqacnwscoqiecfycxqakcfy
fxxcismsisabsycnqc iqusbncKjnsazsikcfiscishq.sprcQmcbqjiys,coscwq s
nwfncdqjcogxxcyj  qincnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhchgyygqacqmc iqhqngak
misscfbbsyycnqcsxsbniqagbcoqieyczdcmissxdcywfigakc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
oqieycgacbqh xgfabscognwcnwscnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsancmqicess gakcnws
 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcafhscfyyqbgfnspcognwcnwscoqiercDqjcbfacsfygxd
bqh xdcognwcnwscnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsanczdcess gakcnwgycoqiecgacnws
yfhscmqihfncognwcgnycfnnfbwspcmjxxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcXgbsayscowsa
dqjcywfiscgncognwqjncbwfikscognwcqnwsiyr

1rPrcNwscbq digkwncxfoycqmcnwsc xfbscowsiscdqjcfiscxqbfnspcfxyqckq.sia
owfncdqjcbfacpqcognwcnwgycoqiercBq digkwncxfoycgachqyncbqjanigsycfis
gacfcbqaynfancynfnscqmcbwfaksrcGmcdqjcfiscqjnygpscnwscJagnspcYnfnsy,
bwsbecnwscxfoycqmcdqjicbqjanidcgacfppgngqacnqcnwscnsihycqmcnwgy
fkisshsanczsmqiscpqoaxqfpgak,cbq dgak,cpgy xfdgak,c simqihgak,
pgynigzjngakcqicbisfngakcpsig.fng.scoqieyczfyspcqacnwgycoqiecqicfad
qnwsic iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqiercNwscMqjapfngqachfesycaq
is isysanfngqaycbqabsiagakcnwscbq digkwncynfnjycqmcfadcoqiecgacfad
bqjanidcqjnygpscnwscJagnspcYnfnsyr

1rSrcJaxsyycdqjcwf.scishq.spcfxxcismsisabsycnqc iqusbncKjnsazsik:

1rSr1rcNwscmqxxqogakcysansabs,cognwcfbng.scxgaeycnq,cqicqnwsi
ghhspgfnscfbbsyycnq,cnwscmjxxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcXgbsayschjyncf  sfi
 iqhgasanxdcowsas.sicfadcbq dcqmcfc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqiec(fadcoqie
qacowgbwcnwsc wifysc" iqusbncKjnsazsik"cf  sfiy,cqicognwcowgbwcnws
 wifysc" iqusbncKjnsazsik"cgycfyyqbgfnsp)cgycfbbsyysp,cpgy xfdsp,
 simqihsp,c.gsosp,cbq gspcqicpgynigzjnsp:

ccNwgycsZqqecgycmqicnwscjyscqmcfadqascfadowsiscgacnwscJagnspcYnfnsycfap
cchqyncqnwsic finycqmcnwscoqixpcfncaqcbqyncfapcognwcfxhqyncaq
ccisynigbngqaycowfnyqs.sircDqjchfdcbq dcgn,ckg.scgncfofdcqicis-jyscgn
ccjapsicnwscnsihycqmcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgbsayscgabxjpspcognwcnwgy
ccsZqqecqicqaxgascfncooorkjnsazsikrqikrcGmcdqjcfiscaqncxqbfnspcgacnws
ccJagnspcYnfnsy,cdqj'xxcwf.scnqcbwsbecnwscxfoycqmcnwscbqjanidcowsiscdqj
ccfiscxqbfnspczsmqiscjygakcnwgycszqqer

1rSr2rcGmcfacgapg.gpjfxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiecgy
psig.spcmiqhcnstnycaqnc iqnsbnspczdcJrYrcbq digkwncxfoc(pqsycaqn
bqanfgacfcaqngbscgapgbfngakcnwfncgncgyc qynspcognwc sihgyygqacqmcnws
bq digkwncwqxpsi),cnwscoqiecbfaczscbq gspcfapcpgynigzjnspcnqcfadqascga
nwscJagnspcYnfnsycognwqjnc fdgakcfadcmssycqicbwfiksyrcGmcdqjcfis
ispgynigzjngakcqic iq.gpgakcfbbsyycnqcfcoqiecognwcnwsc wifysc" iqusbn
Kjnsazsik"cfyyqbgfnspcognwcqicf  sfigakcqacnwscoqie,cdqjchjyncbqh xd
sgnwsicognwcnwscisljgishsanycqmc fifkif wyc1rSr1cnwiqjkwc1rSr7cqi
qznfgac sihgyygqacmqicnwscjyscqmcnwscoqiecfapcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
nifpshfiecfycysncmqinwcgac fifkif wyc1rSr8cqic1rSr9r

1rSr3rcGmcfacgapg.gpjfxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiecgyc qynsp
ognwcnwsc sihgyygqacqmcnwscbq digkwncwqxpsi,cdqjicjyscfapcpgynigzjngqa
hjyncbqh xdcognwczqnwc fifkif wyc1rSr1cnwiqjkwc1rSr7cfapcfad
fppgngqafxcnsihycgh qyspczdcnwscbq digkwncwqxpsircFppgngqafxcnsihy
ogxxczscxgaespcnqcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcXgbsayscmqicfxxcoqiey
 qynspcognwcnwsc sihgyygqacqmcnwscbq digkwncwqxpsicmqjapcfncnws
zskgaagakcqmcnwgycoqier

1rSr4rcPqcaqncjaxgaecqicpsnfbwcqicishq.scnwscmjxxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
Xgbsayscnsihycmiqhcnwgycoqie,cqicfadcmgxsycbqanfgagakcfc fincqmcnwgy
oqiecqicfadcqnwsicoqiecfyyqbgfnspcognwc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhr

1rSr5rcPqcaqncbq d,cpgy xfd,c simqih,cpgynigzjnscqicispgynigzjnscnwgy
sxsbniqagbcoqie,cqicfadc fincqmcnwgycsxsbniqagbcoqie,cognwqjn
 iqhgasanxdcpgy xfdgakcnwscysansabscysncmqinwcgac fifkif wc1rSr1cognw
fbng.scxgaeycqicghhspgfnscfbbsyycnqcnwscmjxxcnsihycqmcnwsc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcXgbsaysr

1rSr6rcDqjchfdcbqa.sincnqcfapcpgynigzjnscnwgycoqiecgacfadczgafid,
bqh isyysp,chfiespcj ,caqa iq igsnfidcqic iq igsnfidcmqih,cgabxjpgak
fadcoqipc iqbsyygakcqicwd sinstncmqihrcWqos.si,cgmcdqjc iq.gpscfbbsyy
nqcqicpgynigzjnscbq gsycqmcfc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqiecgacfcmqihfn
qnwsicnwfac" xfgac.fagxxfcFYBGG"cqicqnwsicmqihfncjyspcgacnwscqmmgbgfx
.siygqac qynspcqacnwscqmmgbgfxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoszcygns
(ooorkjnsazsikrqik),cdqjchjyn,cfncaqcfppgngqafxcbqyn,cmsscqicst says
nqcnwscjysi,c iq.gpscfcbq d,cfchsfaycqmcst qingakcfcbq d,cqicfchsfay
qmcqznfgagakcfcbq dcj qacisljsyn,cqmcnwscoqiecgacgnycqigkgafxc" xfga
.fagxxfcFYBGG"cqicqnwsicmqihrcFadcfxnsiafnscmqihfnchjyncgabxjpscnws
mjxxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcXgbsayscfycy sbgmgspcgac fifkif wc1rSr1r

1rSr7rcPqcaqncbwfikscfcmsscmqicfbbsyycnq,c.gsogak,cpgy xfdgak,
 simqihgak,cbq dgakcqicpgynigzjngakcfadc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqiey
jaxsyycdqjcbqh xdcognwc fifkif wc1rSr8cqic1rSr9r

1rSr8rcDqjchfdcbwfikscfcisfyqafzxscmsscmqicbq gsycqmcqic iq.gpgak
fbbsyycnqcqicpgynigzjngakc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiey
 iq.gpspcnwfn

*cDqjc fdcfciqdfxndcmsscqmc20%cqmcnwsckiqyyc iqmgnycdqjcpsig.scmiqh
ccnwscjyscqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqieycbfxbjxfnspcjygakcnwschsnwqp
ccdqjcfxisfpdcjyscnqcbfxbjxfnscdqjicf  xgbfzxscnftsyrcNwscmsscgycqosp
ccnqcnwscqoasicqmcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcnifpshfie,czjncwscwfy
ccfkisspcnqcpqafnsciqdfxngsycjapsicnwgyc fifkif wcnqcnwsc iqusbn
ccKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqarcIqdfxndc fdhsanychjynczsc fgp
ccognwgac60cpfdycmqxxqogakcsfbwcpfnscqacowgbwcdqjc is fisc(qicfis
ccxskfxxdcisljgispcnqc is fis)cdqjic sigqpgbcnftcisnjiayrcIqdfxnd
cc fdhsanycywqjxpczscbxsfixdchfiespcfycyjbwcfapcysancnqcnwsc iqusbn
ccKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqacfncnwscfppisyycy sbgmgspcga
ccYsbngqac4,c"Gamqihfngqacfzqjncpqafngqaycnqcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik
ccXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqar"

*cDqjc iq.gpscfcmjxxcismjapcqmcfadchqasdc fgpczdcfcjysicowqcaqngmgsy
ccdqjcgacoigngakc(qiczdcs-hfgx)cognwgac30cpfdycqmcisbsg ncnwfncy/ws
ccpqsycaqncfkisscnqcnwscnsihycqmcnwscmjxxc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
ccXgbsaysrcDqjchjyncisljgiscyjbwcfcjysicnqcisnjiacqicpsyniqdcfxx
ccbq gsycqmcnwscoqieyc qyysyyspcgacfc wdygbfxchspgjhcfapcpgybqangajs
ccfxxcjyscqmcfapcfxxcfbbsyycnqcqnwsicbq gsycqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
ccoqieyr

*cDqjc iq.gps,cgacfbbqipfabscognwc fifkif wc1rMr3,cfcmjxxcismjapcqm
ccfadchqasdc fgpcmqicfcoqiecqicfcis xfbshsancbq d,cgmcfcpsmsbncgacnws
ccsxsbniqagbcoqiecgycpgybq.sispcfapcis qinspcnqcdqjcognwgac90cpfdycqm
ccisbsg ncqmcnwscoqier

*cDqjcbqh xdcognwcfxxcqnwsicnsihycqmcnwgycfkisshsancmqicmiss
ccpgynigzjngqacqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqieyr

1rSr9rcGmcdqjcogywcnqcbwfikscfcmsscqicpgynigzjnscfc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiecqickiqj cqmcoqieycqacpgmmsisancnsihycnwfa
fiscysncmqinwcgacnwgycfkisshsan,cdqjchjyncqznfgac sihgyygqacgacoigngak
miqhczqnwcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqacfapcNws
 iqusbncKjnsazsikcNifpshfiecXXB,cnwscqoasicqmcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
nifpshfiercBqanfbncnwscMqjapfngqacfycysncmqinwcgacYsbngqac3czsxqor

1rMr

1rMr1rc iqusbncKjnsazsikc.qxjanssiycfapcsh xqdssycst sapcbqaygpsifzxs
smmqincnqcgpsangmd,cpqcbq digkwncisysfibwcqa,cnifaybigzscfapc iqqmisfp
oqieycaqnc iqnsbnspczdcJrYrcbq digkwncxfocgacbisfngakcnwsc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcbqxxsbngqarcPsy gnscnwsyscsmmqiny,c iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
sxsbniqagbcoqiey,cfapcnwschspgjhcqacowgbwcnwsdchfdczscynqisp,chfd
bqanfgac"Psmsbny,"cyjbwcfy,czjncaqncxghgnspcnq,cgabqh xsns,cgafbbjifns
qicbqiij ncpfnf,cnifaybig ngqacsiiqiy,cfcbq digkwncqicqnwsi
gansxxsbnjfxc iq sindcgamigakshsan,cfcpsmsbng.scqicpfhfkspcpgyecqi
qnwsichspgjh,cfcbqh jnsic.gijy,cqicbqh jnsicbqpsycnwfncpfhfkscqi
bfaaqnczscisfpczdcdqjicsljg hsanr

1rMr2rcXGHGNSPcOFIIFAND,cPGYBXFGHSIcQMcPFHFKSYc-cStbs ncmqicnwsc"Igkwn
qmcIs xfbshsancqicIsmjap"cpsybigzspcgac fifkif wc1rMr3,cnwsc iqusbn
KjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqa,cnwscqoasicqmcnwsc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcnifpshfie,cfapcfadcqnwsic findcpgynigzjngakcfc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqiecjapsicnwgycfkisshsan,cpgybxfghcfxx
xgfzgxgndcnqcdqjcmqicpfhfksy,cbqynycfapcst saysy,cgabxjpgakcxskfx
mssyrcDQJcFKISScNWFNcDQJcWF.ScAQcISHSPGSYcMQIcASKXGKSABS,cYNIGBN
XGFZGXGND,cZISFBWcQMcOFIIFANDcQIcZISFBWcQMcBQANIFBNcSTBS NcNWQYS
 IQ.GPSPcGAc FIFKIF Wc1rMr3rcDQJcFKISScNWFNcNWScMQJAPFNGQA,cNWS
NIFPSHFIEcQOASI,cFAPcFADcPGYNIGZJNQIcJAPSIcNWGYcFKISSHSANcOGXXcAQNcZS
XGFZXScNQcDQJcMQIcFBNJFX,cPGISBN,cGAPGISBN,cBQAYSLJSANGFX,c JAGNG.ScQI
GABGPSANFXcPFHFKSYcS.SAcGMcDQJcKG.ScAQNGBScQMcNWSc QYYGZGXGNDcQMcYJBW
PFHFKSr

1rMr3rcXGHGNSPcIGKWNcQMcIS XFBSHSANcQIcISMJAPc-cGmcdqjcpgybq.sicf
psmsbncgacnwgycsxsbniqagbcoqiecognwgac90cpfdycqmcisbsg.gakcgn,cdqjcbfa
isbsg.scfcismjapcqmcnwschqasdc(gmcfad)cdqjc fgpcmqicgnczdcysapgakcf
oignnsacst xfafngqacnqcnwsc siyqacdqjcisbsg.spcnwscoqiecmiqhrcGmcdqj
isbsg.spcnwscoqiecqacfc wdygbfxchspgjh,cdqjchjyncisnjiacnwschspgjh
ognwcdqjicoignnsacst xfafngqarcNwsc siyqacqicsangndcnwfnc iq.gpspcdqj
ognwcnwscpsmsbng.scoqiechfdcsxsbncnqc iq.gpscfcis xfbshsancbq dcga
xgsjcqmcfcismjaprcGmcdqjcisbsg.spcnwscoqiecsxsbniqagbfxxd,cnwsc siyqa
qicsangndc iq.gpgakcgncnqcdqjchfdcbwqqyscnqckg.scdqjcfcysbqap
q  qinjagndcnqcisbsg.scnwscoqiecsxsbniqagbfxxdcgacxgsjcqmcfcismjaprcGm
nwscysbqapcbq dcgycfxyqcpsmsbng.s,cdqjchfdcpshfapcfcismjapcgacoigngak
ognwqjncmjinwsicq  qinjagngsycnqcmgtcnwsc iqzxshr

1rMr4rcStbs ncmqicnwscxghgnspcigkwncqmcis xfbshsancqicismjapcysncmqinw
gac fifkif wc1rMr3,cnwgycoqiecgyc iq.gpspcnqcdqjc'FY-GY',cOGNWcAQ
QNWSIcOFIIFANGSYcQMcFADcEGAP,cST ISYYcQIcGH XGSP,cGABXJPGAKcZJNcAQN
XGHGNSPcNQcOFIIFANGSYcQMcHSIBWFANFZGXGNDcQIcMGNASYYcMQIcFADc JI QYSr

1rMr5rcYqhscynfnsycpqcaqncfxxqocpgybxfghsiycqmcbsinfgacgh xgsp
ofiifangsycqicnwscstbxjygqacqicxghgnfngqacqmcbsinfgacnd sycqm
pfhfksyrcGmcfadcpgybxfghsicqicxghgnfngqacysncmqinwcgacnwgycfkisshsan
.gqxfnsycnwscxfocqmcnwscynfnscf  xgbfzxscnqcnwgycfkisshsan,cnws
fkisshsancywfxxczscgansi isnspcnqchfescnwschftghjhcpgybxfghsicqi
xghgnfngqac sihgnnspczdcnwscf  xgbfzxscynfnscxforcNwscga.fxgpgndcqi
jasamqibsfzgxgndcqmcfadc iq.gygqacqmcnwgycfkisshsancywfxxcaqnc.qgpcnws
ishfgagakc iq.gygqayr

1rMr6rcGAPSHAGNDc-cDqjcfkisscnqcgapshagmdcfapcwqxpcnwscMqjapfngqa,cnws
nifpshfiecqoasi,cfadcfksancqicsh xqdsscqmcnwscMqjapfngqa,cfadqas
 iq.gpgakcbq gsycqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieycga
fbbqipfabscognwcnwgycfkisshsan,cfapcfadc.qxjanssiycfyyqbgfnspcognwcnws
 iqpjbngqa,c iqhqngqacfapcpgynigzjngqacqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh
sxsbniqagbcoqiey,cwfihxsyycmiqhcfxxcxgfzgxgnd,cbqynycfapcst saysy,
gabxjpgakcxskfxcmssy,cnwfncfigyscpgisbnxdcqicgapgisbnxdcmiqhcfadcqm
nwscmqxxqogakcowgbwcdqjcpqcqicbfjyscnqcqbbji:c(f)cpgynigzjngqacqmcnwgy
qicfadc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqie,c(z)cfxnsifngqa,chqpgmgbfngqa,cqi
fppgngqaycqicpsxsngqaycnqcfadc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcoqie,cfapc(b)cfad
Psmsbncdqjcbfjysr

Ysbngqac2rcGamqihfngqacfzqjncnwscHgyygqacqmc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh

 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcgycydaqadhqjycognwcnwscmisscpgynigzjngqacqm
sxsbniqagbcoqieycgacmqihfnycisfpfzxsczdcnwscogpsync.figsndcqm
bqh jnsiycgabxjpgakcqzyqxsns,cqxp,chgppxs-fkspcfapcasocbqh jnsiyrcGn
stgynyczsbfjyscqmcnwscsmmqinycqmcwjapispycqmc.qxjanssiycfapcpqafngqay
miqhc sq xscgacfxxcofxeycqmcxgmsr

.qxjanssiycfapcmgafabgfxcyj  qincnqc iq.gpsc.qxjanssiycognwcnws
fyygynfabscnwsdcasspcfiscbigngbfxcnqcisfbwgakc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh'y
kqfxycfapcsayjigakcnwfncnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcbqxxsbngqacogxx
ishfgacmissxdcf.fgxfzxscmqicksasifngqaycnqcbqhsrcGac2001,cnwsc iqusbn
KjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqacofycbisfnspcnqc iq.gpscfcysbjis
fapc sihfasancmjnjiscmqic iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcfapcmjnjis
ksasifngqayrcNqcxsfiachqiscfzqjncnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifid
Fibwg.scMqjapfngqacfapcwqocdqjicsmmqinycfapcpqafngqaycbfacwsx ,cyss
Ysbngqayc3cfapc4cfapcnwscMqjapfngqacgamqihfngqac fkscfn
ooorkjnsazsikrqik



Ysbngqac3rcGamqihfngqacfzqjncnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqa

Nwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqacgycfcaqac iqmgn
501(b)(3)cspjbfngqafxcbqi qifngqacqikfagvspcjapsicnwscxfoycqmcnws
ynfnscqmcHgyygyyg  gcfapckifanspcnftcstsh ncynfnjyczdcnwscGansiafx
Is.sajscYsi.gbsrcNwscMqjapfngqa'ycSGAcqicmspsifxcnftcgpsangmgbfngqa
ajhzsicgyc64-6221541rcBqanigzjngqaycnqcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifid
Fibwg.scMqjapfngqacfiscnftcpspjbngzxscnqcnwscmjxxcstnsanc sihgnnspczd
JrYrcmspsifxcxfoycfapcdqjicynfns'ycxfoyr

NwscMqjapfngqa'yc igabg fxcqmmgbscgycgacMfgizfaey,cFxfyef,cognwcnws
hfgxgakcfppisyy:c QcZqtc750175,cMfgizfaey,cFEc99775,czjncgny
.qxjanssiycfapcsh xqdssycfiscybfnnsispcnwiqjkwqjncajhsiqjy
xqbfngqayrcGnyczjygasyycqmmgbscgycxqbfnspcfnc809cAqinwc1500cOsyn,cYfxn
XfescBgnd,cJNc84116,c(801)c596-1887rcShfgxcbqanfbncxgaeycfapcj cnq
pfnscbqanfbncgamqihfngqacbfaczscmqjapcfncnwscMqjapfngqa'ycoszcygnscfap
qmmgbgfxc fkscfncooorkjnsazsikrqik/bqanfbn

Mqicfppgngqafxcbqanfbncgamqihfngqa:

ccccPircKiskqidcZrcAsozd
ccccBwgsmcStsbjng.scfapcPgisbnqi
cccckzasozd@ kxfmrqik

Ysbngqac4rcGamqihfngqacfzqjncPqafngqaycnqcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsik
XgnsifidcFibwg.scMqjapfngqa

 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcps sapycj qacfapcbfaaqncyji.g.scognwqjncogps
y isfpc jzxgbcyj  qincfapcpqafngqaycnqcbfiidcqjncgnychgyygqacqm
gabisfygakcnwscajhzsicqmc jzxgbcpqhfgacfapcxgbsayspcoqieycnwfncbfaczs
missxdcpgynigzjnspcgachfbwgascisfpfzxscmqihcfbbsyygzxsczdcnwscogpsyn
fiifdcqmcsljg hsancgabxjpgakcqjnpfnspcsljg hsanrcHfadcyhfxxcpqafngqay
($1cnqc$5,000)cfisc fingbjxfixdcgh qinfancnqchfganfgagakcnftcstsh n
ynfnjycognwcnwscGIYr

NwscMqjapfngqacgycbqhhgnnspcnqcbqh xdgakcognwcnwscxfoyciskjxfngak
bwfigngsycfapcbwfignfzxscpqafngqaycgacfxxc50cynfnsycqmcnwscJagnsp
YnfnsyrcBqh xgfabscisljgishsanycfiscaqncjagmqihcfapcgncnfesycf
bqaygpsifzxscsmmqin,chjbwc f sioqiecfapchfadcmssycnqchssncfapcess cj 
ognwcnwsyscisljgishsanyrcOscpqcaqncyqxgbgncpqafngqaycgacxqbfngqay
owsiscoscwf.scaqncisbsg.spcoignnsacbqamgihfngqacqmcbqh xgfabsrcNqcYSAP
PQAFNGQAYcqicpsnsihgascnwscynfnjycqmcbqh xgfabscmqicfadc fingbjxfi
ynfnsc.gygncooorkjnsazsikrqik/pqafns

Owgxscoscbfaaqncfapcpqcaqncyqxgbgncbqanigzjngqaycmiqhcynfnsycowsiscos
wf.scaqnchsncnwscyqxgbgnfngqacisljgishsany,cosceaqocqmcaqc iqwgzgngqa
fkfgayncfbbs ngakcjayqxgbgnspcpqafngqaycmiqhcpqaqiycgacyjbwcynfnsycowq
f  iqfbwcjycognwcqmmsiycnqcpqafnsr

Gansiafngqafxcpqafngqaycfisckifnsmjxxdcfbbs nsp,czjncoscbfaaqnchfes
fadcynfnshsanycbqabsiagakcnftcnisfnhsancqmcpqafngqaycisbsg.spcmiqh
qjnygpscnwscJagnspcYnfnsyrcJrYrcxfoycfxqascyofh cqjicyhfxxcynfmmr

 xsfyscbwsbecnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcOszc fksycmqicbjiisancpqafngqa
hsnwqpycfapcfppisyysyrcPqafngqaycfiscfbbs nspcgacfcajhzsicqmcqnwsi
ofdycgabxjpgakcbwsbey,cqaxgasc fdhsanycfapcbispgncbfipcpqafngqayrcNq
pqafns,c xsfysc.gygn:cooorkjnsazsikrqik/pqafns

Ysbngqac5rcKsasifxcGamqihfngqacFzqjnc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsxsbniqagbcoqieyr

 iqmsyyqicHgbwfsxcYrcWfincofycnwscqigkgafnqicqmcnwsc iqusbn
Kjnsazsik-nhcbqabs ncqmcfcxgzifidcqmcsxsbniqagbcoqieycnwfncbqjxpczs
missxdcywfispcognwcfadqasrcMqicmqindcdsfiy,cwsc iqpjbspcfap
pgynigzjnspc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsZqqeycognwcqaxdcfcxqqyscasnoqiecqm
.qxjanssicyj  qinr

 iqusbncKjnsazsik-nhcsZqqeycfiscqmnsacbisfnspcmiqhcys.sifxc igansp
spgngqay,cfxxcqmcowgbwcfiscbqamgihspcfycaqnc iqnsbnspczdcbq digkwncga
nwscJrYrcjaxsyycfcbq digkwncaqngbscgycgabxjpsprcNwjy,coscpqcaqn
asbsyyfigxdcess csZqqeycgacbqh xgfabscognwcfadc fingbjxfic f si
spgngqar

Hqync sq xscynfincfncqjicOszcygnscowgbwcwfycnwschfgac Kcysfibw
mfbgxgnd:cooorkjnsazsikrqik

NwgycOszcygnscgabxjpsycgamqihfngqacfzqjnc iqusbncKjnsazsik-nh,
gabxjpgakcwqocnqchfescpqafngqaycnqcnwsc iqusbncKjnsazsikcXgnsifid
Fibwg.scMqjapfngqa,cwqocnqcwsx c iqpjbscqjicasocsZqqey,cfapcwqocnq
yjzybigzscnqcqjicshfgxcasoyxsnnsicnqcwsficfzqjncasocsZqqeyr


