
JscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvCOmmnvmtvJscvJa cv fysabc,vogvSxvRxvUcqqp

JsapvcOmmnvapvtmkvjscvlpcvmtvfbgmbcvfbgusckcvfjvbmvympjvfbhvuajs
fq mpjvbmvkcpjkayjambpvusfjpmc.ckxvvGmlv fgvymzgvaj,vra.cvajvfufgvmk
kc-lpcvajvlbhckvjscvjck pvmtvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQaycbpcvabyqlhch
uajsvjsapvcOmmnvmkvmbqabcvfjvuuuxrljcbockrxbcj


Jajqc:vJscvJa cv fysabc

Fljsmk:vSxvRxvUcqqp

KcqcfpcvHfjc:vMyjmockv2,v2004v[COmmnv#35]
QfpjvLzhfjch:vIfblfkgv14,v2018

Qfbrlfrc:vCbrqaps

Ysfkfyjckvpcjvcbymhabr:vLJT-8

***vPJFKJvMTvJSAPvZKMICYJvRLJCBOCKRvCOMMNvJSCvJA Cv FYSABCv***






JscvJa cv fysabc


FbvAb.cbjamb




ogvSxvRxvUcqqp




YMBJCBJP


vAvAbjkmhlyjamb
vAAvJscv fysabc
vAAAvJscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvKcjlkbp
vA.vJa cvJkf.cqqabr
v.vAbvjscvRmqhcbvFrc
v.AvJscvPlbpcjvmtv fbnabh
v.AAvFvPlhhcbvPsmyn
v.AAAvCezqfbfjamb
vAEvJscv mkqmynp
vEvUscbvBarsjvYf c
vEAvJscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfab
vEAAvAbvjscvHfknbcpp
vEAAAvJscvJkfzvmtvjscvUsajcvPzsabe
vEA.vJscvTlkjsckv.apamb
vE.vJscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’pvKcjlkb
vE.AvFtjckvjscvPjmkg
vCzaqmrlc



vA


vAbjkmhlyjamb

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckv(tmkvpmvajvuaqqvocvymb.cbacbjvjmvpzcfnvmtvsa )vufp
cezmlbhabrvfvkcymbhajcv fjjckvjmvlpxvSapvzfqcvrkcgvcgcpvpsmbcvfbh
juabnqch,vfbhvsapvlplfqqgvzfqcvtfycvufpvtqlpschvfbhvfba fjchxvJscvtakc
olkbjvokarsjqg,vfbhvjscvpmtjvkfhafbycvmtvjscvabyfbhcpycbjvqarsjpvabvjsc
qaqacpvmtvpaq.ckvyflrsjvjscvolooqcpvjsfjvtqfpschvfbhvzfppchvabvmlk
rqfppcpxvMlkvysfakp,vocabrvsapvzfjcbjp,vc okfychvfbhvyfkcppchvlpvkfjsck
jsfbvplo ajjchvjmvocvpfjvlzmb,vfbhvjsckcvufpvjsfjvqlelkamlp
ftjck-habbckvfj mpzsckc,vuscbvjsmlrsjvklbpvrkfyctlqqgvtkccvmtvjsc
jkf  cqpvmtvzkcyapambxvFbhvscvzljvajvjmvlpvabvjsapvufg— fknabrvjsc
zmabjpvuajsvfvqcfbvtmkctabrck—fpvucvpfjvfbhvqfwaqgvfh akchvsap
cfkbcpjbcppvm.ckvjsapvbcuvzfkfhmev(fpvucvjsmlrsjvaj)vfbhvsapvtcylbhajgx

“Gmlv lpjvtmqqmuv cvyfkctlqqgxvAvpsfqqvsf.cvjmvymbjkm.ckjvmbcvmkvjum
ahcfpvjsfjvfkcvfq mpjvlba.ckpfqqgvfyyczjchxvJscvrcm cjkg,vtmkvabpjfbyc,
jscgvjflrsjvgmlvfjvpysmmqvapvtmlbhchvmbvfv apymbyczjambx”

“Apvbmjvjsfjvkfjsckvfvqfkrcvjsabrvjmvcezcyjvlpvjmvocrabvlzmb?”vpfah
Taqog,vfbvfkrl cbjfja.cvzckpmbvuajsvkchvsfakx

“Avhmvbmjv cfbvjmvfpnvgmlvjmvfyyczjvfbgjsabrvuajsmljvkcfpmbfoqcvrkmlbh
tmkvajxvGmlvuaqqvpmmbvfh ajvfpv lysvfpvAvbcchvtkm vgmlxvGmlvnbmuvmt
ymlkpcvjsfjvfv fjsc fjayfqvqabc,vfvqabcvmtvjsaynbcppv_baq_,vsfpvbmvkcfq
ceapjcbycxvJscgvjflrsjvgmlvjsfj?vBcajsckvsfpvfv fjsc fjayfqvzqfbcx
Jscpcvjsabrpvfkcv ckcvfopjkfyjambpx”

“Jsfjvapvfqqvkarsj,”vpfahvjscvZpgysmqmrapjx

“Bmk,vsf.abrvmbqgvqcbrjs,vokcfhjs,vfbhvjsaynbcpp,vyfbvfvylocvsf.cvf
kcfqvceapjcbycx”

“JsckcvAvmoicyj,”vpfahvTaqogxv“Mtvymlkpcvfvpmqahvomhgv fgvceapjxvFqq
kcfqvjsabrp—”

“Pmv mpjvzcmzqcvjsabnxvOljvufajvfv m cbjxvYfbvfbv_abpjfbjfbcmlp_vyloc
ceapj?”

“Hmb’jvtmqqmuvgml,”vpfahvTaqogx

“Yfbvfvylocvjsfjvhmcpvbmjvqfpjvtmkvfbgvja cvfjvfqq,vsf.cvfvkcfq
ceapjcbyc?”

Taqogvocyf cvzcbpa.cxv“Yqcfkqg,”vjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvzkmycchch,v“fbg
kcfqvomhgv lpjvsf.cvcejcbpambvabv_tmlk_vhakcyjambp:vajv lpjvsf.c
Qcbrjs,vOkcfhjs,vJsaynbcpp,vfbh—HlkfjambxvOljvjskmlrsvfvbfjlkfq
abtak ajgvmtvjscvtqcps,vusaysvAvuaqqvcezqfabvjmvgmlvabvfv m cbj,vuc
abyqabcvjmvm.ckqmmnvjsapvtfyjxvJsckcvfkcvkcfqqgvtmlkvha cbpambp,vjskcc
usaysvucvyfqqvjscvjskccvzqfbcpvmtvPzfyc,vfbhvfvtmlkjs,vJa cxvJsckcvap,
smuc.ck,vfvjcbhcbygvjmvhkfuvfbvlbkcfqvhapjabyjambvocjuccbvjscvtmk ck
jskccvha cbpambpvfbhvjscvqfjjck,vocyflpcvajvsfzzcbpvjsfjvmlk
ymbpyamlpbcppv m.cpvabjck ajjcbjqgvabvmbcvhakcyjambvfqmbrvjscvqfjjck
tkm vjscvocrabbabrvjmvjscvcbhvmtvmlkvqa.cpx”

“Jsfj,”vpfahvfv.ckgvgmlbrv fb,v fnabrvpzfp mhayvcttmkjpvjmvkcqarsjvsap
yarfkvm.ckvjscvqf z;v“jsfjvxvxvxv.ckgvyqcfkvabhcchx”

“Bmu,vajvapv.ckgvkc fknfoqcvjsfjvjsapvapvpmvcejcbpa.cqgvm.ckqmmnch,”
ymbjablchvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vuajsvfvpqarsjvfyycppambvmtvysccktlqbcppx
“Kcfqqgvjsapvapvusfjvapv cfbjvogvjscvTmlkjsvHa cbpamb,vjsmlrsvpm c
zcmzqcvusmvjfqnvfomljvjscvTmlkjsvHa cbpambvhmvbmjvnbmuvjscgv cfbvajxvAj
apvmbqgvfbmjsckvufgvmtvqmmnabrvfjvJa cxv_Jsckcvapvbmvhattckcbycvocjuccb
Ja cvfbhvfbgvmtvjscvjskccvha cbpambpvmtvPzfycvceyczjvjsfjvmlk
ymbpyamlpbcppv m.cpvfqmbrvaj_xvOljvpm cvtmmqapsvzcmzqcvsf.cvrmjvsmqhvmt
jscvukmbrvpahcvmtvjsfjvahcfxvGmlvsf.cvfqqvscfkhvusfjvjscgvsf.cvjmvpfg
fomljvjsapvTmlkjsvHa cbpamb?”

“_A_vsf.cvbmj,”vpfahvjscvZkm.abyafqv fgmkx

“Ajvapvpa zqgvjsapxvJsfjvPzfyc,vfpvmlkv fjsc fjayafbpvsf.cvaj,vap
pzmncbvmtvfpvsf.abrvjskccvha cbpambp,vusaysvmbcv fgvyfqqvQcbrjs,
Okcfhjs,vfbhvJsaynbcpp,vfbhvapvfqufgpvhctabfoqcvogvkctckcbycvjmvjskcc
zqfbcp,vcfysvfjvkarsjvfbrqcpvjmvjscvmjsckpxvOljvpm cvzsaqmpmzsayfq
zcmzqcvsf.cvoccbvfpnabrvusgv_jskcc_vha cbpambpvzfkjaylqfkqg—usgvbmj
fbmjsckvhakcyjambvfjvkarsjvfbrqcpvjmvjscvmjsckvjskcc?—fbhvsf.cvc.cb
jkachvjmvymbpjklyjvfvTmlk-Ha cbpambfqvrcm cjkgxvZkmtcppmkvPa mbvBcuym o
ufpvcezmlbhabrvjsapvjmvjscvBcuvGmknv fjsc fjayfqvPmyacjgvmbqgvfv mbjs
mkvpmvfrmxvGmlvnbmuvsmuvmbvfvtqfjvplktfyc,vusaysvsfpvmbqgvjum
ha cbpambp,vucvyfbvkczkcpcbjvfvtarlkcvmtvfvjskcc-ha cbpambfqvpmqah,vfbh
pa aqfkqgvjscgvjsabnvjsfjvogv mhcqpvmtvjskccvha cbpambpvjscgvymlqh
kczkcpcbjvmbcvmtvtmlk—atvjscgvymlqhv fpjckvjscvzckpzcyja.cvmtvjsc
jsabrxvPcc?”

“Avjsabnvpm,”v lk lkchvjscvZkm.abyafqv fgmk;vfbh,vnbajjabrvsapvokmup,
scvqfzpchvabjmvfbvabjkmpzcyja.cvpjfjc,vsapvqazpv m.abrvfpvmbcvusm
kczcfjpv gpjayvumkhpxv“Gcp,vAvjsabnvAvpccvajvbmu,”vscvpfahvftjckvpm c
ja c,vokarsjcbabrvabvfvdlajcvjkfbpajmkgv fbbckx

“Ucqq,vAvhmvbmjv abhvjcqqabrvgmlvAvsf.cvoccbvfjvumknvlzmbvjsapvrcm cjkg
mtvTmlkvHa cbpambpvtmkvpm cvja cxvPm cvmtv gvkcplqjpvfkcvylkamlpxvTmk
abpjfbyc,vsckcvapvfvzmkjkfajvmtvfv fbvfjvcarsjvgcfkpvmqh,vfbmjsckvfj
tatjccb,vfbmjsckvfjvpc.cbjccb,vfbmjsckvfjvjucbjg-jskcc,vfbhvpmvmbxvFqq
jscpcvfkcvc.ahcbjqgvpcyjambp,vfpvajvuckc,vJskcc-Ha cbpambfq
kczkcpcbjfjambpvmtvsapvTmlk-Ha cbpambchvocabr,vusaysvapvfvtaechvfbh
lbfqjckfoqcvjsabrx

“Pyacbjatayvzcmzqc,”vzkmycchchvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vftjckvjscvzflpc
kcdlakchvtmkvjscvzkmzckvfppa aqfjambvmtvjsap,v“nbmuv.ckgvucqqvjsfjvJa c
apvmbqgvfvnabhvmtvPzfycxvSckcvapvfvzmzlqfkvpyacbjatayvhafrkf ,vf
ucfjsckvkcymkhxvJsapvqabcvAvjkfycvuajsv gvtabrckvpsmupvjscv m.c cbjvmt
jscvofkm cjckxvGcpjckhfgvajvufpvpmvsars,vgcpjckhfgvbarsjvajvtcqq,vjscb
jsapv mkbabrvajvkmpcvfrfab,vfbhvpmvrcbjqgvlzufkhvjmvsckcxvPlkcqgvjsc
 ckylkgvhahvbmjvjkfycvjsapvqabcvabvfbgvmtvjscvha cbpambpvmtvPzfyc
rcbckfqqgvkcymrbapch?vOljvyckjfabqgvajvjkfychvplysvfvqabc,vfbhvjsfj
qabc,vjsckctmkc,vucv lpjvymbyqlhc,vufpvfqmbrvjscvJa c-Ha cbpambx”

“Olj,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb,vpjfkabrvsfkhvfjvfvymfqvabvjscvtakc,v“at
Ja cvapvkcfqqgvmbqgvfvtmlkjsvha cbpambvmtvPzfyc,vusgvapvaj,vfbhvusgvsfp
ajvfqufgpvoccb,vkcrfkhchvfpvpm cjsabrvhattckcbj?vFbhvusgvyfbbmjvucv m.c
abvJa cvfpvucv m.cvfomljvabvjscvmjsckvha cbpambpvmtvPzfyc?”

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvp aqchxv“Fkcvgmlvpmvplkcvucvyfbv m.cvtkccqgvab
Pzfyc?vKarsjvfbhvqctjvucvyfbvrm,vofynufkhvfbhvtmkufkhvtkccqgvcbmlrs,
fbhv cbvfqufgpvsf.cvhmbcvpmxvAvfh ajvucv m.cvtkccqgvabvjumvha cbpambpx
Oljvsmuvfomljvlzvfbhvhmub?vRkf.ajfjambvqa ajpvlpvjsckcx”

“Bmjvcefyjqg,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fbxv“Jsckcvfkcvofqqmmbpx”

“Oljvoctmkcvjscvofqqmmbp,vpf.cvtmkvpzfp mhayvil zabrvfbhvjsc
abcdlfqajacpvmtvjscvplktfyc,v fbvsfhvbmvtkcchm vmtv.ckjayfqv m.c cbjx”

“Pjaqqvjscgvymlqhv m.cvfvqajjqcvlzvfbhvhmub,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fbx

“Cfpack,vtfkvcfpackvhmubvjsfbvlzx”

“Fbhvgmlvyfbbmjv m.cvfjvfqqvabvJa c,vgmlvyfbbmjvrcjvfufgvtkm vjsc
zkcpcbjv m cbjx”

“ gvhcfkvpak,vjsfjvapvilpjvusckcvgmlvfkcvukmbrxvJsfjvapvilpjvusckcvjsc
usmqcvumkqhvsfpvrmbcvukmbrxvUcvfkcvfqufgpvrcjjabrvfufgvtkm vjscvzkcpcbj
 m cbjxvMlkv cbjfqvceapjcbycp,vusaysvfkcva  fjckafqvfbhvsf.cvbm
ha cbpambp,vfkcvzfppabrvfqmbrvjscvJa c-Ha cbpambvuajsvfvlbatmk 
.cqmyajgvtkm vjscvykfhqcvjmvjscvrkf.cxvIlpjvfpvucvpsmlqhvjkf.cqv_hmub_
atvucvocrfbvmlkvceapjcbycvtatjgv aqcpvfom.cvjscvcfkjs’pvplktfycx”

“Oljvjscvrkcfjvhattaylqjgvapvjsap,”vabjckklzjchvjscvZpgysmqmrapjxv’Gml
_yfb_v m.cvfomljvabvfqqvhakcyjambpvmtvPzfyc,voljvgmlvyfbbmjv m.cvfomlj
abvJa cx”

“Jsfjvapvjscvrck vmtv gvrkcfjvhapym.ckgxvOljvgmlvfkcvukmbrvjmvpfgvjsfj
ucvyfbbmjv m.cvfomljvabvJa cxvTmkvabpjfbyc,vatvAvf vkcyfqqabrvfb
abyahcbjv.ckgv.a.ahqgvAvrmvofynvjmvjscvabpjfbjvmtvajpvmyylkkcbyc:vA
ocym cvfopcbj- abhch,vfpvgmlvpfgxvAvil zvofynvtmkvfv m cbjxvMtvymlkpc
ucvsf.cvbmv cfbpvmtvpjfgabrvofynvtmkvfbgvqcbrjsvmtvJa c,vfbgv mkcvjsfb
fvpf.frcvmkvfbvfba fqvsfpvmtvpjfgabrvpaevtccjvfom.cvjscvrkmlbhxvOljvf
ya.aqapchv fbvapvocjjckvmttvjsfbvjscvpf.frcvabvjsapvkcpzcyjxvScvyfbvrm
lzvfrfabpjvrkf.ajfjambvabvfvofqqmmb,vfbhvusgvpsmlqhvscvbmjvsmzcvjsfj
lqja fjcqgvscv fgvocvfoqcvjmvpjmzvmkvfyycqckfjcvsapvhkatjvfqmbrvjsc
Ja c-Ha cbpamb,vmkvc.cbvjlkbvfomljvfbhvjkf.cqvjscvmjsckvufg?”

“Ms,v_jsap_,”vocrfbvTaqog,v“apvfqq—”

“Usgvbmj?”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckx

“Aj’pvfrfabpjvkcfpmb,”vpfahvTaqogx

“Usfjvkcfpmb?”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckx

“Gmlvyfbvpsmuvoqfynvapvusajcvogvfkrl cbj,”vpfahvTaqog,v“oljvgmlvuaqq
bc.ckvymb.abycv cx”

“Zmppaoqgvbmj,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckxv“Oljvbmuvgmlvocrabvjmvpccvjsc
moicyjvmtv gvab.cpjarfjambpvabjmvjscvrcm cjkgvmtvTmlkvHa cbpambpxvQmbr
frmvAvsfhvfv.frlcvabnqabrvmtvfv fysabc—”

“Jmvjkf.cqvjskmlrsvJa c!”vceyqfa chvjscv.ckgvGmlbrv fbx

“Jsfjvpsfqqvjkf.cqvabhattckcbjqgvabvfbgvhakcyjambvmtvPzfycvfbhvJa c,vfp
jscvhka.ckvhcjck abcpx”

Taqogvymbjcbjchvsa pcqtvuajsvqflrsjckx

“OljvAvsf.cvcezcka cbjfqv.ckatayfjamb,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckx

“Ajvumlqhvocvkc fknfoqgvymb.cbacbjvtmkvjscvsapjmkafb,”vjscvZpgysmqmrapj
plrrcpjchxv“Mbcv arsjvjkf.cqvofynvfbhv.ckatgvjscvfyyczjchvfyymlbjvmt
jscvOfjjqcvmtvSfpjabrp,vtmkvabpjfbyc!”

“Hmb’jvgmlvjsabnvgmlvumlqhvfjjkfyjvfjjcbjamb?”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fbx
“Mlkvfbycpjmkpvsfhvbmvrkcfjvjmqckfbycvtmkvfbfyskmbap px”

“Mbcv arsjvrcjvmbc’pvRkccnvtkm vjscv.ckgvqazpvmtvSm ckvfbhvZqfjm,”vjsc
.ckgvGmlbrv fbvjsmlrsjx

“AbvusaysvyfpcvjscgvumlqhvyckjfabqgvzqmlrsvgmlvtmkvjscvQajjqc-rmxvJsc
Rck fbvpysmqfkpvsf.cva zkm.chvRkccnvpmv lysx”

“Jscbvjsckcvapvjscvtljlkc,”vpfahvjscv.ckgvGmlbrv fbxv“Ilpjvjsabn!vMbc
 arsjvab.cpjvfqqvmbc’pv mbcg,vqcf.cvajvjmvfyyl lqfjcvfjvabjckcpj,vfbh
slkkgvmbvfscfh!”

“Jmvhapym.ckvfvpmyacjg,”vpfahvA,v“ckcyjchvmbvfvpjkayjqgvym  lbapjay
ofpapx”

“Mtvfqqvjscvuaqhvcejkf.frfbjvjscmkacp!”vocrfbvjscvZpgysmqmrapjx

“Gcp,vpmvajvpcc chvjmv c,vfbhvpmvAvbc.ckvjfqnchvmtvajvlbjaq—”

“Cezcka cbjfqv.ckatayfjamb!”vykachvAxv“Gmlvfkcvrmabrvjmv.ckatgv_jsfj_?”

“Jscvcezcka cbj!”vykachvTaqog,vusmvufpvrcjjabrvokfab-ucfkgx

“Qcj’pvpccvgmlkvcezcka cbjvfbgsmu,”vpfahvjscvZpgysmqmrapj,v“jsmlrsvaj’p
fqqvsl olr,vgmlvnbmux”

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvp aqchvkmlbhvfjvlpxvJscb,vpjaqqvp aqabrvtfabjqg,vfbh
uajsvsapvsfbhpvhcczvabvsapvjkmlpckpvzmyncjp,vscvufqnchvpqmuqgvmljvmt
jscvkmm ,vfbhvucvscfkhvsapvpqazzckpvpslttqabrvhmubvjscvqmbrvzfppfrcvjm
sapvqfomkfjmkgx

JscvZpgysmqmrapjvqmmnchvfjvlpxv“Avumbhckvusfjvsc’pvrmj?”

“Pm cvpqcarsj-mt-sfbhvjkaynvmkvmjsck,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb,vfbhvTaqog
jkachvjmvjcqqvlpvfomljvfvymbilkmkvscvsfhvpccbvfjvOlkpqc ,voljvoctmkcvsc
sfhvtabapschvsapvzkctfycvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvyf cvofyn,vfbhvTaqog’p
fbcyhmjcvymqqfzpchx



vAA


vJscv fysabc

JscvjsabrvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvscqhvabvsapvsfbhvufpvfvrqajjckabrv cjfqqay
tkf cumkn,vpyfkycqgvqfkrckvjsfbvfvp fqqvyqmyn,vfbhv.ckgvhcqayfjcqg
 fhcxvJsckcvufpva.mkgvabvaj,vfbhvpm cvjkfbpzfkcbjvykgpjfqqabc
plopjfbycxvFbhvbmuvAv lpjvocvcezqayaj,vtmkvjsapvjsfjvtmqqmup—lbqcppvsap
cezqfbfjambvapvjmvocvfyyczjch—apvfbvfopmqljcqgvlbfyymlbjfoqcvjsabrxvSc
jmmnvmbcvmtvjscvp fqqvmyjfrmbfqvjfoqcpvjsfjvuckcvpyfjjckchvfomljvjsc
kmm ,vfbhvpcjvajvabvtkmbjvmtvjscvtakc,vuajsvjumvqcrpvmbvjscvscfkjsklrx
Mbvjsapvjfoqcvscvzqfychvjscv cysfbap xvJscbvscvhkcuvlzvfvysfak,vfbhvpfj
hmubxvJscvmbqgvmjsckvmoicyjvmbvjscvjfoqcvufpvfvp fqqvpsfhchvqf z,vjsc
okarsjvqarsjvmtvusaysvtcqqvlzmbvjscv mhcqxvJsckcvuckcvfqpmvzcksfzpvf
hmwcbvyfbhqcpvfomlj,vjumvabvokfppvyfbhqcpjaynpvlzmbvjscv fbjcqvfbh
pc.ckfqvabvpymbycp,vpmvjsfjvjscvkmm vufpvokaqqafbjqgvaqql abfjchxvAvpfj
abvfvqmuvfk -ysfakvbcfkcpjvjscvtakc,vfbhvAvhkcuvjsapvtmkufkhvpmvfpvjm
ocvfq mpjvocjuccbvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvfbhvjscvtakczqfycxvTaqogvpfj
ocsabhvsa ,vqmmnabrvm.ckvsapvpsmlqhckxvJscv chayfqv fbvfbhvjsc
Zkm.abyafqv fgmkvufjyschvsa vabvzkmtaqcvtkm vjscvkarsj,vjsc
Zpgysmqmrapjvtkm vjscvqctjxvJscv.ckgvGmlbrv fbvpjmmhvocsabhvjsc
ZpgysmqmrapjxvUcvuckcvfqqvmbvjscvfqckjxvAjvfzzcfkpvabykchaoqcvjmv c
jsfjvfbgvnabhvmtvjkayn,vsmuc.ckvplojqgvymbyca.chvfbhvsmuc.ckvfhkmajqg
hmbc,vymlqhvsf.cvoccbvzqfgchvlzmbvlpvlbhckvjscpcvymbhajambpx

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvqmmnchvfjvlp,vfbhvjscbvfjvjscv cysfbap xv“Ucqq?”
pfahvjscvZpgysmqmrapjx

“Jsapvqajjqcvfttfak,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vkcpjabrvsapvcqomupvlzmb
jscvjfoqcvfbhvzkcppabrvsapvsfbhpvjmrcjsckvfom.cvjscvfzzfkfjlp,v“apvmbqg
fv mhcqxvAjvapv gvzqfbvtmkvfv fysabcvjmvjkf.cqvjskmlrsvja cxvGmlvuaqq
bmjaycvjsfjvajvqmmnpvpabrlqfkqgvfpncu,vfbhvjsfjvjsckcvapvfbvmhh
juabnqabrvfzzcfkfbycvfomljvjsapvofk,vfpvjsmlrsvajvufpvabvpm cvufg
lbkcfqx”vScvzmabjchvjmvjscvzfkjvuajsvsapvtabrckxv“Fqpm,vsckcvapvmbc
qajjqcvusajcvqc.ck,vfbhvsckcvapvfbmjsckx”

Jscv chayfqv fbvrmjvlzvmljvmtvsapvysfakvfbhvzcckchvabjmvjscvjsabrx
“Aj’pvocfljatlqqgv fhc,”vscvpfahx

“Ajvjmmnvjumvgcfkpvjmv fnc,”vkcjmkjchvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckxvJscb,vuscbvuc
sfhvfqqva ajfjchvjscvfyjambvmtvjscv chayfqv fb,vscvpfah:v“BmuvAvufbj
gmlvyqcfkqgvjmvlbhckpjfbhvjsfjvjsapvqc.ck,vocabrvzkcppchvm.ck,vpcbhp
jscv fysabcvrqahabrvabjmvjscvtljlkc,vfbhvjsapvmjsckvkc.ckpcpvjsc
 mjambxvJsapvpfhhqcvkczkcpcbjpvjscvpcfjvmtvfvja cvjkf.cqqckxvZkcpcbjqg
Avf vrmabrvjmvzkcppvjscvqc.ck,vfbhvmttvjscv fysabcvuaqqvrmxvAjvuaqq
.fbaps,vzfppvabjmvtljlkcvJa c,vfbhvhapfzzcfkxvSf.cvfvrmmhvqmmnvfjvjsc
jsabrxvQmmnvfjvjscvjfoqcvjmm,vfbhvpfjaptgvgmlkpcq.cpvjsckcvapvbm
jkaynckgxvAvhmb’jvufbjvjmvufpjcvjsapv mhcq,vfbhvjscbvocvjmqhvA’ vf
dlfynx”

Jsckcvufpvfv abljc’pvzflpcvzcksfzpxvJscvZpgysmqmrapjvpcc chvfomljvjm
pzcfnvjmv c,voljvysfbrchvsapv abhxvJscbvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvzljvtmkjs
sapvtabrckvjmufkhpvjscvqc.ckxv“Bm,”vscvpfahvplhhcbqgxv“Qcbhv cvgmlk
sfbhx”vFbhvjlkbabrvjmvjscvZpgysmqmrapj,vscvjmmnvjsfjvabha.ahlfq’pvsfbh
abvsapvmubvfbhvjmqhvsa vjmvzljvmljvsapvtmkctabrckxvPmvjsfjvajvufpvjsc
Zpgysmqmrapjvsa pcqtvusmvpcbjvtmkjsvjscv mhcqvJa cv fysabcvmbvajp
abjck abfoqcv.mgfrcxvUcvfqqvpfuvjscvqc.ckvjlkbxvAvf vfopmqljcqgvyckjfab
jsckcvufpvbmvjkaynckgxvJsckcvufpvfvokcfjsvmtvuabh,vfbhvjscvqf zvtqf c
il zchxvMbcvmtvjscvyfbhqcpvmbvjscv fbjcqvufpvoqmubvmlj,vfbhvjscvqajjqc
 fysabcvplhhcbqgvpulbrvkmlbh,vocyf cvabhapjabyj,vufpvpccbvfpvfvrsmpj
tmkvfvpcymbhvzcksfzp,vfpvfbvchhgvmtvtfabjqgvrqajjckabrvokfppvfbhva.mkg;
fbhvajvufpvrmbc—.fbapsch!vPf.cvtmkvjscvqf zvjscvjfoqcvufpvofkcx

C.ckgmbcvufpvpaqcbjvtmkvfv abljcxvJscbvTaqogvpfahvscvufpvhf bchx

JscvZpgysmqmrapjvkcym.ckchvtkm vsapvpjlzmk,vfbhvplhhcbqgvqmmnchvlbhck
jscvjfoqcxvFjvjsfjvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvqflrschvysccktlqqgxv“Ucqq?”vsc
pfah,vuajsvfvkc abapycbycvmtvjscvZpgysmqmrapjxvJscb,vrcjjabrvlz,vsc
ucbjvjmvjscvjmofyymvifkvmbvjscv fbjcq,vfbhvuajsvsapvofynvjmvlpvocrfbvjm
taqqvsapvzazcx

Ucvpjfkchvfjvcfysvmjsckxv“Qmmnvsckc,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb,v“fkcvgmlvab
cfkbcpjvfomljvjsap?vHmvgmlvpckamlpqgvocqac.cvjsfjvjsfjv fysabcvsfp
jkf.cqqchvabjmvja c?”

“Yckjfabqg,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vpjmmzabrvjmvqarsjvfvpzaqqvfjvjsc
takcxvJscbvscvjlkbch,vqarsjabrvsapvzazc,vjmvqmmnvfjvjscvZpgysmqmrapj’p
tfycxv(JscvZpgysmqmrapj,vjmvpsmuvjsfjvscvufpvbmjvlbsabrch,vscqzch
sa pcqtvjmvfvyarfkvfbhvjkachvjmvqarsjvajvlbyljx)v“Usfjvapv mkc,vAvsf.c
fvoarv fysabcvbcfkqgvtabapschvabvjsckc”—scvabhayfjchvjsc
qfomkfjmkg—“fbhvuscbvjsfjvapvzljvjmrcjsckvAv cfbvjmvsf.cvfvimlkbcgvmb
 gvmubvfyymlbjx”

“Gmlv cfbvjmvpfgvjsfjvjsfjv fysabcvsfpvjkf.cqqchvabjmvjscvtljlkc?”vpfah
Taqogx

“Abjmvjscvtljlkcvmkvjscvzfpj—Avhmb’j,vtmkvyckjfab,vnbmuvusaysx”

Ftjckvfbvabjck.fqvjscvZpgysmqmrapjvsfhvfbvabpzakfjambxv“Ajv lpjvsf.c
rmbcvabjmvjscvzfpjvatvajvsfpvrmbcvfbgusckc,”vscvpfahx

“Usg?”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckx

“OcyflpcvAvzkcpl cvjsfjvajvsfpvbmjv m.chvabvpzfyc,vfbhvatvajvjkf.cqqch
abjmvjscvtljlkcvajvumlqhvpjaqqvocvsckcvfqqvjsapvja c,vpabycvajv lpj
sf.cvjkf.cqqchvjskmlrsvjsapvja cx”

“Olj,”vpfahvA,v“Atvajvjkf.cqqchvabjmvjscvzfpjvajvumlqhvsf.cvoccb
.apaoqcvuscbvucvyf cvtakpjvabjmvjsapvkmm ;vfbhvqfpjvJslkphfgvuscbvuc
uckcvsckc;vfbhvjscvJslkphfgvoctmkcvjsfj;vfbhvpmvtmkjs!”

“Pckamlpvmoicyjambp,”vkc fknchvjscvZkm.abyafqv fgmk,vuajsvfbvfakvmt
a zfkjafqajg,vjlkbabrvjmufkhpvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckx

“Bmjvfvoaj,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vfbh,vjmvjscvZpgysmqmrapj:v“Gml
jsabnxv_Gml_vyfbvcezqfabvjsfjxvAj’pvzkcpcbjfjambvocqmuvjscvjskcpsmqh,
gmlvnbmu,vhaqljchvzkcpcbjfjambx”

“Mtvymlkpc,”vpfahvjscvZpgysmqmrapj,vfbhvkcfpplkchvlpxv“Jsfj’pvfvpa zqc
zmabjvmtvzpgysmqmrgxvAvpsmlqhvsf.cvjsmlrsjvmtvajxvAj’pvzqfabvcbmlrs,
fbhvscqzpvjscvzfkfhmevhcqarsjtlqqgxvUcvyfbbmjvpccvaj,vbmkvyfbvuc
fzzkcyafjcvjsapv fysabc,vfbgv mkcvjsfbvucvyfbvjscvpzmncvmtvfvusccq
pzabbabr,vmkvfvolqqcjvtqgabrvjskmlrsvjscvfakxvAtvajvapvjkf.cqqabr
jskmlrsvja cvtatjgvja cpvmkvfvslbhkchvja cpvtfpjckvjsfbvucvfkc,vatvaj
rcjpvjskmlrsvfv abljcvusaqcvucvrcjvjskmlrsvfvpcymbh,vjscva zkcppambvaj
ykcfjcpvuaqqvmtvymlkpcvocvmbqgvmbc-tatjacjsvmkvmbc-slbhkchjsvmtvusfjvaj
umlqhv fncvatvajvuckcvbmjvjkf.cqqabrvabvja cxvJsfj’pvzqfabvcbmlrsx”vSc
zfppchvsapvsfbhvjskmlrsvjscvpzfycvabvusaysvjscv fysabcvsfhvoccbxv“Gml
pcc?”vscvpfah,vqflrsabrx

Ucvpfjvfbhvpjfkchvfjvjscv.fyfbjvjfoqcvtmkvfv abljcvmkvpmxvJscbvjscvJa c
Jkf.cqqckvfpnchvlpvusfjvucvjsmlrsjvmtvajvfqqx

“Ajvpmlbhpvzqflpaoqcvcbmlrsvjmbarsj,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb;v“oljvufaj
lbjaqvjm mkkmuxvUfajvtmkvjscvym  mbvpcbpcvmtvjscv mkbabrx”

“UmlqhvgmlvqancvjmvpccvjscvJa cv fysabcvajpcqt?”vfpnchvjscvJa c
Jkf.cqqckxvFbhvjsckcuajs,vjfnabrvjscvqf zvabvsapvsfbh,vscvqchvjscvufg
hmubvjscvqmbr,vhkflrsjgvymkkahmkvjmvsapvqfomkfjmkgxvAvkc c ockv.a.ahqg
jscvtqaynckabrvqarsj,vsapvdlcck,vokmfhvscfhvabvpaqsmlcjjc,vjscvhfbycvmt
jscvpsfhmup,vsmuvucvfqqvtmqqmuchvsa ,vzlwwqchvoljvabykchlqmlp,vfbhvsmu
jsckcvabvjscvqfomkfjmkgvucvocscqhvfvqfkrckvchajambvmtvjscvqajjqc
 cysfbap vusaysvucvsfhvpccbv.fbapsvtkm voctmkcvmlkvcgcpxvZfkjpvuckcvmt
bayncq,vzfkjpvmtva.mkg,vzfkjpvsfhvyckjfabqgvoccbvtaqchvmkvpfubvmljvmt
kmynvykgpjfqxvJscvjsabrvufpvrcbckfqqgvym zqcjc,voljvjscvjuapjch
ykgpjfqqabcvofkpvqfgvlbtabapschvlzmbvjscvocbysvocpahcvpm cvpsccjpvmt
hkfuabrp,vfbhvAvjmmnvmbcvlzvtmkvfvocjjckvqmmnvfjvajxvDlfkjwvajvpcc ch
jmvocx

“Qmmnvsckc,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb,v“fkcvgmlvzcktcyjqgvpckamlp?vMkvap
jsapvfvjkayn—qancvjsfjvrsmpjvgmlvpsmuchvlpvqfpjvYskapj fp?”

“Lzmbvjsfjv fysabc,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vsmqhabrvjscvqf zvfqmtj,
“Avabjcbhvjmvcezqmkcvja cxvApvjsfjvzqfab?vAvufpvbc.ckv mkcvpckamlpvab
 gvqatcx”

Bmbcvmtvlpvdlajcvnbcuvsmuvjmvjfncvajx

AvyflrsjvTaqog’pvcgcvm.ckvjscvpsmlqhckvmtvjscv chayfqv fb,vfbhvsc
uabnchvfjv cvpmqc bqgx



vAAA


vJscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvKcjlkbp

Avjsabnvjsfjvfjvjsfjvja cvbmbcvmtvlpvdlajcvocqac.chvabvjscvJa c
 fysabcxvJscvtfyjvap,vjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvufpvmbcvmtvjsmpcv cbvusmvfkc
jmmvyqc.ckvjmvocvocqac.ch:vgmlvbc.ckvtcqjvjsfjvgmlvpfuvfqqvkmlbhvsa ;
gmlvfqufgpvplpzcyjchvpm cvplojqcvkcpck.c,vpm cvabrcblajgvabvf olps,
ocsabhvsapvqlyahvtkfbnbcppxvSfhvTaqogvpsmubvjscv mhcqvfbhvcezqfabchvjsc
 fjjckvabvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’pvumkhp,vucvpsmlqhvsf.cvpsmubv_sa _vtfk
qcppvpyczjayap xvTmkvucvpsmlqhvsf.cvzckyca.chvsapv mja.cp:vf
zmkn-oljysckvymlqhvlbhckpjfbhvTaqogxvOljvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvsfhv mkc
jsfbvfvjmlysvmtvusa vf mbrvsapvcqc cbjp,vfbhvucvhapjklpjchvsa xvJsabrp
jsfjvumlqhvsf.cv fhcvjscvtf cvmtvfvqcppvyqc.ckv fbvpcc chvjkaynpvabvsap
sfbhpxvAjvapvfv apjfncvjmvhmvjsabrpvjmmvcfpaqgxvJscvpckamlpvzcmzqcvusm
jmmnvsa vpckamlpqgvbc.ckvtcqjvdlajcvplkcvmtvsapvhczmkj cbj;vjscgvuckc
pm csmuvfufkcvjsfjvjklpjabrvjscakvkczljfjambpvtmkvilhr cbjvuajsvsa vufp
qancvtlkbapsabrvfvblkpckgvuajsvcrrpscqqvysabfxvPmvAvhmb’jvjsabnvfbgvmt
lpvpfahv.ckgv lysvfomljvja cvjkf.cqqabrvabvjscvabjck.fqvocjuccbvjsfj
Jslkphfgvfbhvjscvbcej,vjsmlrsvajpvmhhvzmjcbjafqajacpvkfb,vbmvhmloj,vab
 mpjvmtvmlkv abhp:vajpvzqflpaoaqajg,vjsfjvap,vajpvzkfyjayfq
abykchaoqcbcpp,vjscvylkamlpvzmppaoaqajacpvmtvfbfyskmbap vfbhvmtvljjck
ymbtlpambvajvplrrcpjchxvTmkv gvmubvzfkj,vAvufpvzfkjaylqfkqgvzkcmyylzach
uajsvjscvjkaynvmtvjscv mhcqxvJsfjvAvkc c ockvhapylppabrvuajsvjsc
 chayfqv fb,vusm vAv cjvmbvTkahfgvfjvjscvQabbæfbxvScvpfahvscvsfhvpccbvf
pa aqfkvjsabrvfjvJüoabrcb,vfbhvqfahvymbpahckfoqcvpjkcppvmbvjsc
oqmuabr-mljvmtvjscvyfbhqcxvOljvsmuvjscvjkaynvufpvhmbcvscvymlqhvbmj
cezqfabx

JscvbcejvJslkphfgvAvucbjvfrfabvjmvKays mbh—AvplzzmpcvAvufpvmbcvmtvjsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqck’pv mpjvymbpjfbjvrlcpjp—fbh,vfkka.abrvqfjc,vtmlbhvtmlkvmk
ta.cv cbvfqkcfhgvfppc oqchvabvsapvhkfuabr-kmm xvJscv chayfqv fbvufp
pjfbhabrvoctmkcvjscvtakcvuajsvfvpsccjvmtvzfzckvabvmbcvsfbhvfbhvsap
ufjysvabvjscvmjsckxvAvqmmnchvkmlbhvtmkvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vfbh—“Aj’p
sfqt-zfpjvpc.cbvbmu,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fbxv“Avplzzmpcvuc’hvocjjckvsf.c
habbck?”

“Usckc’p——?”vpfahvA,vbf abrvmlkvsmpjx

“Gml’.cvilpjvym c?vAj’pvkfjsckvmhhxvSc’pvlbf.mahfoqgvhcjfabchxvScvfpnp
 cvabvjsapvbmjcvjmvqcfhvmttvuajsvhabbckvfjvpc.cbvatvsc’pvbmjvofynxvPfgp
sc’qqvcezqfabvuscbvscvym cpx”

“Ajvpcc pvfvzajgvjmvqcjvjscvhabbckvpzmaq,”vpfahvjscvChajmkvmtvf
ucqq-nbmubvhfaqgvzfzck;vfbhvjsckclzmbvjscvHmyjmkvkfbrvjscvocqqx

JscvZpgysmqmrapjvufpvjscvmbqgvzckpmbvocpahcpvjscvHmyjmkvfbhv gpcqtvusm
sfhvfjjcbhchvjscvzkc.amlpvhabbckxvJscvmjsckv cbvuckcvOqfbn,vjscvChajmk
ftmkc cbjambch,vfvyckjfabvimlkbfqapj,vfbhvfbmjsck—fvdlacj,vpsgv fbvuajs
fvocfkh—usm vAvhahb’jvnbmu,vfbhvusm,vfpvtfkvfpv gvmopck.fjambvucbj,
bc.ckvmzcbchvsapv mljsvfqqvjscvc.cbabrxvJsckcvufpvpm cvpzcylqfjambvfj
jscvhabbck-jfoqcvfomljvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’pvfopcbyc,vfbhvAvplrrcpjch
ja cvjkf.cqqabr,vabvfvsfqt-imylqfkvpzakajxvJscvChajmkvufbjchvjsfj
cezqfabchvjmvsa ,vfbhvjscvZpgysmqmrapjv.mqlbjcckchvfvummhcbvfyymlbjvmt
jscv“abrcbamlpvzfkfhmevfbhvjkayn”vucvsfhvuajbcppchvjsfjvhfgvuccnxvSc
ufpvabvjscv ahpjvmtvsapvcezmpajambvuscbvjscvhmmkvtkm vjscvymkkahmk
mzcbchvpqmuqgvfbhvuajsmljvbmapcxvAvufpvtfyabrvjscvhmmk,vfbhvpfuvaj
takpjxv“Sfqqm!”vAvpfahxv“Fjvqfpj!”vFbhvjscvhmmkvmzcbchvuahck,vfbhvjsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqckvpjmmhvoctmkcvlpxvAvrf.cvfvykgvmtvplkzkapcxv“Rmmh
scf.cbp!v fb,vusfj’pvjscv fjjck?”vykachvjscv chayfqv fb,vusmvpfuvsa 
bcejxvFbhvjscvusmqcvjfoqctlqvjlkbchvjmufkhpvjscvhmmkx

Scvufpvabvfbvf fwabrvzqarsjxvSapvymfjvufpvhlpjgvfbhvhakjg,vfbhvp cfkch
uajsvrkccbvhmubvjscvpqcc.cp;vsapvsfakvhapmkhckch,vfbhvfpvajvpcc chvjm
 cvrkcgck—cajsckvuajsvhlpjvfbhvhakjvmkvocyflpcvajpvymqmlkvsfhvfyjlfqqg
tfhchxvSapvtfycvufpvrsfpjqgvzfqc;vsapvysabvsfhvfvokmubvyljvmbvaj—fvylj
sfqt-scfqch;vsapvcezkcppambvufpvsfrrfkhvfbhvhkfub,vfpvogvabjcbpc
plttckabrxvTmkvfv m cbjvscvscpajfjchvabvjscvhmmkufg,vfpvatvscvsfhvoccb
hfwwqchvogvjscvqarsjxvJscbvscvyf cvabjmvjscvkmm xvScvufqnchvuajsvilpj
plysvfvqa zvfpvAvsf.cvpccbvabvtmmjpmkcvjkf zpxvUcvpjfkchvfjvsa vab
paqcbyc,vcezcyjabrvsa vjmvpzcfnx

Scvpfahvbmjvfvumkh,voljvyf cvzfabtlqqgvjmvjscvjfoqc,vfbhv fhcvfv mjamb
jmufkhpvjscvuabcxvJscvChajmkvtaqqchvfvrqfppvmtvysf zfrbc,vfbhvzlpschvaj
jmufkhpvsa xvScvhkfabchvaj,vfbhvajvpcc chvjmvhmvsa vrmmh:vtmkvscvqmmnch
kmlbhvjscvjfoqc,vfbhvjscvrsmpjvmtvsapvmqhvp aqcvtqaynckchvfykmppvsap
tfycxv“Usfjvmbvcfkjsvsf.cvgmlvoccbvlzvjm,v fb?”vpfahvjscvHmyjmkxvJsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqckvhahvbmjvpcc vjmvscfkxv“Hmb’jvqcjv cvhapjlkovgml,”vsc
pfah,vuajsvfvyckjfabvtfqjckabrvfkjaylqfjambxv“A’ vfqqvkarsjx”vSc
pjmzzch,vscqhvmljvsapvrqfppvtmkv mkc,vfbhvjmmnvajvmttvfjvfvhkflrsjx
“Jsfj’pvrmmh,”vscvpfahxvSapvcgcpvrkcuvokarsjck,vfbhvfvtfabjvymqmlkvyf c
abjmvsapvysccnpxvSapvrqfbycvtqaynckchvm.ckvmlkvtfycpvuajsvfvyckjfab
hlqqvfzzkm.fq,vfbhvjscbvucbjvkmlbhvjscvufk vfbhvym tmkjfoqcvkmm xvJscb
scvpzmncvfrfab,vpjaqqvfpvajvuckcvtccqabrvsapvufgvf mbrvsapvumkhpxv“A’ 
rmabrvjmvufpsvfbhvhkcpp,vfbhvjscbvA’qqvym cvhmubvfbhvcezqfabvjsabrpxxxx
Pf.cv cvpm cvmtvjsfjv ljjmbxvA’ vpjfk.abrvtmkvfvoajvmtv cfjx”

ScvqmmnchvfykmppvfjvjscvChajmk,vusmvufpvfvkfkcv.apajmk,vfbhvsmzchvsc
ufpvfqqvkarsjxvJscvChajmkvocrfbvfvdlcpjambxv“Jcqqvgmlvzkcpcbjqg,”vpfah
jscvJa cvJkf.cqqckxv“A’ —tlbbg!vOcvfqqvkarsjvabvfv abljcx”

Scvzljvhmubvsapvrqfpp,vfbhvufqnchvjmufkhpvjscvpjfakyfpcvhmmkxvFrfabvA
kc fknchvsapvqf cbcppvfbhvjscvpmtjvzfhhabrvpmlbhvmtvsapvtmmjtfqq,vfbh
pjfbhabrvlzvabv gvzqfyc,vAvpfuvsapvtccjvfpvscvucbjvmljxvScvsfhvbmjsabr
mbvjsc voljvfvzfakvmtvjfjjckch,voqmmh-pjfabchvpmynpxvJscbvjscvhmmk
yqmpchvlzmbvsa xvAvsfhvsfqtvfv abhvjmvtmqqmu,vjaqqvAvkc c ockchvsmuvsc
hcjcpjchvfbgvtlppvfomljvsa pcqtxvTmkvfv abljc,vzcksfzp,v gv abhvufp
ummq-rfjsckabrxvJscb,v“Kc fknfoqcvOcsf.amlkvmtvfbvC abcbjvPyacbjapj,”vA
scfkhvjscvChajmkvpfg,vjsabnabrv(ftjckvsapvumbj)vabvscfhqabcpxvFbhvjsap
okmlrsjv gvfjjcbjambvofynvjmvjscvokarsjvhabbck-jfoqcx

“Usfj’pvjscvrf c?”vpfahvjscvImlkbfqapjxv“SfpvscvoccbvhmabrvjscvF fjclk
Yfhrck?vAvhmb’jvtmqqmux”vAv cjvjscvcgcvmtvjscvZpgysmqmrapj,vfbhvkcfhv g
mubvabjckzkcjfjambvabvsapvtfycxvAvjsmlrsjvmtvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvqa zabr
zfabtlqqgvlzpjfakpxvAvhmb’jvjsabnvfbgmbcvcqpcvsfhvbmjaychvsapvqf cbcppx

Jscvtakpjvjmvkcym.ckvym zqcjcqgvtkm vjsapvplkzkapcvufpvjscv chayfqv fb,
usmvkfbrvjscvocqq—jscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvsfjchvjmvsf.cvpck.fbjpvufajabrvfj
habbck—tmkvfvsmjvzqfjcxvFjvjsfjvjscvChajmkvjlkbchvjmvsapvnbatcvfbhvtmkn
uajsvfvrklbj,vfbhvjscvPaqcbjv fbvtmqqmuchvplajxvJscvhabbckvufpvkcpl chx
Ymb.ckpfjambvufpvceyqf fjmkgvtmkvfvqajjqcvusaqcvuajsvrfzpvmt
umbhck cbj;vfbhvjscbvjscvChajmkvrmjvtck.cbjvabvsapvylkampajgxv“Hmcpvmlk
tkacbhvcncvmljvsapv mhcpjvabym cvuajsvfvykmppabr?vmkvsfpvscvsap
Bcolysfhbcwwfkvzsfpcp?”vscvabdlakchxv“Avtccqvfpplkchvaj’pvjsapvolpabcpp
mtvjscvJa cv fysabc,”vAvpfah,vfbhvjmmnvlzvjscvZpgysmqmrapj’pvfyymlbjvmt
mlkvzkc.amlpv ccjabrxvJscvbcuvrlcpjpvuckcvtkfbnqgvabykchlqmlpxvJsc
Chajmkvkfapchvmoicyjambpxv“Usfjv_ufp_vjsapvja cvjkf.cqqabr?vFv fb
ymlqhb’jvym.ckvsa pcqtvuajsvhlpjvogvkmqqabrvabvfvzfkfhme,vymlqhvsc?”
Fbhvjscb,vfpvjscvahcfvyf cvsm cvjmvsa ,vscvkcpmkjchvjmvyfkayfjlkcx
Sfhb’jvjscgvfbgvyqmjscp-oklpscpvabvjscvTljlkc?vJscvImlkbfqapjvjmm,
umlqhvbmjvocqac.cvfjvfbgvzkayc,vfbhvimabchvjscvChajmkvabvjscvcfpgvumkn
mtvscfzabrvkahaylqcvmbvjscvusmqcvjsabrxvJscgvuckcvomjsvjscvbcuvnabhvmt
imlkbfqapj—.ckgvimgmlp,vakkc.ckcbjvgmlbrv cbxv“MlkvPzcyafq
YmkkcpzmbhcbjvabvjscvHfgvftjckvJm mkkmuvkczmkjp,”vjscvImlkbfqapjvufp
pfgabr—mkvkfjsckvpsmljabr—uscbvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvyf cvofynxvScvufp
hkcppchvabvmkhabfkgvc.cbabrvyqmjscp,vfbhvbmjsabrvpf.cvsapvsfrrfkhvqmmn
kc fabchvmtvjscvysfbrcvjsfjvsfhvpjfkjqchv cx

“Avpfg,”vpfahvjscvChajmkvsaqfkamlpqg,v“jscpcvysfzpvsckcvpfgvgmlvsf.c
occbvjkf.cqqabrvabjmvjscv ahhqcvmtvbcejvuccn!vJcqqvlpvfqqvfomljvqajjqc
Kmpcockg,vuaqqvgml?vUsfjvuaqqvgmlvjfncvtmkvjscvqmj?”

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvyf cvjmvjscvzqfycvkcpck.chvtmkvsa vuajsmljvfvumkhx
Scvp aqchvdlacjqg,vabvsapvmqhvufgxv“Usckc’pv gv ljjmb?”vscvpfahxv“Usfj
fvjkcfjvajvapvjmvpjaynvfvtmknvabjmv cfjvfrfab!”

“Pjmkg!”vykachvjscvChajmkx

“Pjmkgvocvhf bch!”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckxv“Avufbjvpm cjsabrvjmvcfjxvA
umb’jvpfgvfvumkhvlbjaqvAvrcjvpm cvzczjmbcvabjmv gvfkjckacpxvJsfbnpxvFbh
jscvpfqjx”

“Mbcvumkh,”vpfahvAxv“Sf.cvgmlvoccbvja cvjkf.cqqabr?”

“Gcp,”vpfahvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck,vuajsvsapv mljsvtlqq,vbmhhabrvsapvscfhx

“A’hvra.cvfvpsaqqabrvfvqabcvtmkvfv.ckofja vbmjc,”vpfahvjscvChajmkxvJsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqckvzlpschvsapvrqfppvjmufkhpvjscvPaqcbjv fbvfbhvkfbrvajvuajs
sapvtabrckbfaq;vfjvusaysvjscvPaqcbjv fb,vusmvsfhvoccbvpjfkabrvfjvsap
tfyc,vpjfkjchvymb.lqpa.cqg,vfbhvzmlkchvsa vuabcxvJscvkcpjvmtvjscvhabbck
ufpvlbym tmkjfoqcxvTmkv gvmubvzfkj,vplhhcbvdlcpjambpvnczjvmbvkapabrvjm
 gvqazp,vfbhvAvhfkcvpfgvajvufpvjscvpf cvuajsvjscvmjsckpxvJscvImlkbfqapj
jkachvjmvkcqac.cvjscvjcbpambvogvjcqqabrvfbcyhmjcpvmtvScjjacvZmjjckxvJsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqckvhc.mjchvsapvfjjcbjambvjmvsapvhabbck,vfbhvhapzqfgchvjsc
fzzcjajcvmtvfvjkf zxvJscv chayfqv fbvp mnchvfvyarfkcjjc,vfbhvufjysch
jscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvjskmlrsvsapvcgcqfpscpxvJscvPaqcbjv fbvpcc chvc.cb
 mkcvyql pgvjsfbvlplfq,vfbhvhkfbnvysf zfrbcvuajsvkcrlqfkajgvfbh
hcjck abfjambvmljvmtvpscckvbck.mlpbcppxvFjvqfpjvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck
zlpschvsapvzqfjcvfufg,vfbhvqmmnchvkmlbhvlpxv“AvplzzmpcvAv lpj
fzmqmrapc,”vscvpfahxv“Avufpvpa zqgvpjfk.abrxvA’.cvsfhvfv mpjvf fwabr
ja cx”vScvkcfyschvmljvsapvsfbhvtmkvfvyarfk,vfbhvyljvjscvcbhxv“Oljvym c
abjmvjscvp mnabr-kmm xvAj’pvjmmvqmbrvfvpjmkgvjmvjcqqvm.ckvrkcfpg
zqfjcpx”vFbhvkabrabrvjscvocqqvabvzfppabr,vscvqchvjscvufgvabjmvjsc
fhimababrvkmm x

“Gmlvsf.cvjmqhvOqfbn,vfbhvHfps,vfbhvYsmpcvfomljvjscv fysabc?”vscvpfah
jmv c,vqcfbabrvofynvabvsapvcfpg-ysfakvfbhvbf abrvjscvjskccvbcuvrlcpjpx

“Oljvjscvjsabr’pvfv ckcvzfkfhme,”vpfahvjscvChajmkx

“Avyfb’jvfkrlcvjmbarsjxvAvhmb’jv abhvjcqqabrvgmlvjscvpjmkg,voljvAvyfb’j
fkrlcxvAvuaqq,”vscvucbjvmb,v“jcqqvgmlvjscvpjmkgvmtvusfjvsfpvsfzzcbchvjm
 c,vatvgmlvqanc,voljvgmlv lpjvkctkfabvtkm vabjckklzjambpxvAvufbjvjm
jcqqvajxvOfhqgxv mpjvmtvajvuaqqvpmlbhvqancvqgabrxvPmvocvaj!vAj’p
jklc—c.ckgvumkhvmtvaj,vfqqvjscvpf cxvAvufpvabv gvqfomkfjmkgvfjvtmlk
m’yqmyn,vfbhvpabycvjscbv…vA’.cvqa.chvcarsjvhfgpv…vplysvhfgpvfpvbmvsl fb
ocabrvc.ckvqa.chvoctmkc!vA’ vbcfkqgvumkbvmlj,voljvAvpsfb’jvpqcczvjaqq
A’.cvjmqhvjsapvjsabrvm.ckvjmvgmlxvJscbvAvpsfqqvrmvjmvochxvOljvbm
abjckklzjambp!vApvajvfrkcch?”

“Frkcch,”vpfahvjscvChajmk,vfbhvjscvkcpjvmtvlpvcysmchv“Frkcchx”vFbhvuajs
jsfjvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvocrfbvsapvpjmkgvfpvAvsf.cvpcjvajvtmkjsxvScvpfj
ofynvabvsapvysfakvfjvtakpj,vfbhvpzmncvqancvfvucfkgv fbxvFtjckufkhpvsc
rmjv mkcvfba fjchxvAbvukajabrvajvhmubvAvtccqvuajsvmbqgvjmmv lys
nccbbcppvjscvabfhcdlfygvmtvzcbvfbhvabn—fbh,vfom.cvfqq,v gvmub
abfhcdlfyg—jmvcezkcppvajpvdlfqajgxvGmlvkcfh,vAvuaqqvplzzmpc,
fjjcbja.cqgvcbmlrs;voljvgmlvyfbbmjvpccvjscvpzcfnck’pvusajc,vpabyckc
tfycvabvjscvokarsjvyakyqcvmtvjscvqajjqcvqf z,vbmkvscfkvjscvabjmbfjamb
mtvsapv.maycxvGmlvyfbbmjvnbmuvsmuvsapvcezkcppambvtmqqmuchvjscvjlkbpvmt
sapvpjmkg!v mpjvmtvlpvscfkckpvuckcvabvpsfhmu,vtmkvjscvyfbhqcpvabvjsc
p mnabr-kmm vsfhvbmjvoccbvqarsjch,vfbhvmbqgvjscvtfycvmtvjscvImlkbfqapj
fbhvjscvqcrpvmtvjscvPaqcbjv fbvtkm vjscvnbccpvhmubufkhvuckc
aqql abfjchxvFjvtakpjvucvrqfbychvbmuvfbhvfrfabvfjvcfysvmjsckxvFtjckvf
ja cvucvycfpchvjmvhmvjsfj,vfbhvqmmnchvmbqgvfjvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’p
tfycx



vA.


vJa cvJkf.cqqabr

“Avjmqhvpm cvmtvgmlvqfpjvJslkphfgvmtvjscvzkabyazqcpvmtvjscvJa c
 fysabc,vfbhvpsmuchvgmlvjscvfyjlfqvjsabrvajpcqt,vabym zqcjcvabvjsc
umknpsmzxvJsckcvajvapvbmu,vfvqajjqcvjkf.cq-umkb,vjklqg;vfbhvmbcvmtvjsc
a.mkgvofkpvapvykfynch,vfbhvfvokfppvkfaqvocbj;voljvjscvkcpjvmtvaj’p
pmlbhvcbmlrsxvAvcezcyjchvjmvtabapsvajvmbvTkahfg;voljvmbvTkahfg,vuscb
jscvzljjabrvjmrcjsckvufpvbcfkqgvhmbc,vAvtmlbhvjsfjvmbcvmtvjscvbayncq
ofkpvufpvcefyjqgvmbcvabysvjmmvpsmkj,vfbhvjsapvAvsfhvjmvrcjvkc fhc;vpm
jsfjvjscvjsabrvufpvbmjvym zqcjcvlbjaqvjsapv mkbabrxvAjvufpvfjvjcb
m’yqmynvjmhfgvjsfjvjscvtakpjvmtvfqqvJa cv fysabcpvocrfbvajpvyfkcckxvA
rf.cvajvfvqfpjvjfz,vjkachvfqqvjscvpykcupvfrfab,vzljvmbcv mkcvhkmzvmt
maqvmbvjscvdlfkjwvkmh,vfbhvpfjv gpcqtvabvjscvpfhhqcxvAvplzzmpcvf
playahcvusmvsmqhpvfvzapjmqvjmvsapvpnlqqvtccqpv lysvjscvpf cvumbhckvfj
usfjvuaqqvym cvbcejvfpvAvtcqjvjscbxvAvjmmnvjscvpjfkjabrvqc.ckvabvmbc
sfbhvfbhvjscvpjmzzabrvmbcvabvjscvmjsck,vzkcppchvjscvtakpj,vfbhvfq mpj
a  chafjcqgvjscvpcymbhxvAvpcc chvjmvkccq;vAvtcqjvfvbarsj fkcvpcbpfjamb
mtvtfqqabr;vfbh,vqmmnabrvkmlbh,vAvpfuvjscvqfomkfjmkgvcefyjqgvfpvoctmkcx
Sfhvfbgjsabrvsfzzcbch?vTmkvfv m cbjvAvplpzcyjchvjsfjv gvabjcqqcyjvsfh
jkaynchv cxvJscbvAvbmjchvjscvyqmynxvFv m cbjvoctmkc,vfpvajvpcc ch,vaj
sfhvpjmmhvfjvfv abljcvmkvpmvzfpjvjcb;vbmuvajvufpvbcfkqgvsfqt-zfpj
jskcc!

“Avhkcuvfvokcfjs,vpcjv gvjccjs,vrkazzchvjscvpjfkjabrvqc.ckvuajsvomjs
sfbhp,vfbhvucbjvmttvuajsvfvjslhxvJscvqfomkfjmkgvrmjvsfwgvfbhvucbjvhfknx
 kpxvUfjyscjjvyf cvabvfbhvufqnch,vfzzfkcbjqgvuajsmljvpccabrv c,vjmufkhp
jscvrfkhcbvhmmkxvAvplzzmpcvajvjmmnvsckvfv abljcvmkvpmvjmvjkf.ckpcvjsc
zqfyc,voljvjmv cvpscvpcc chvjmvpsmmjvfykmppvjscvkmm vqancvfvkmyncjxvA
zkcppchvjscvqc.ckvm.ckvjmvajpvcejkc cvzmpajambxvJscvbarsjvyf cvqancvjsc
jlkbabrvmljvmtvfvqf z,vfbhvabvfbmjsckv m cbjvyf cvjm mkkmuxvJsc
qfomkfjmkgvrkcuvtfabjvfbhvsfwg,vjscbvtfabjckvfbhvc.ckvtfabjckxvJm mkkmu
barsjvyf cvoqfyn,vjscbvhfgvfrfab,vbarsjvfrfab,vhfgvfrfab,vtfpjckvfbh
tfpjckvpjaqqxvFbvchhgabrv lk lkvtaqqchv gvcfkp,vfbhvfvpjkfbrc,vhl o
ymbtlpchbcppvhcpycbhchvmbv gv abhx

“Avf vftkfahvAvyfbbmjvymb.cgvjscvzcylqafkvpcbpfjambpvmtvja c
jkf.cqqabrxvJscgvfkcvceycppa.cqgvlbzqcfpfbjxvJsckcvapvfvtccqabrvcefyjqg
qancvjsfjvmbcvsfpvlzmbvfvpuajysofyn—mtvfvscqzqcppvscfhqmbrv mjamb!vA
tcqjvjscvpf cvsmkkaoqcvfbjayazfjamb,vjmm,vmtvfbva  abcbjvp fpsxvFpvA
zljvmbvzfyc,vbarsjvtmqqmuchvhfgvqancvjscvtqfzzabrvmtvfvoqfynvuabrxvJsc
ha vplrrcpjambvmtvjscvqfomkfjmkgvpcc chvzkcpcbjqgvjmvtfqqvfufgvtkm v c,
fbhvAvpfuvjscvplbvsmzzabrvpuatjqgvfykmppvjscvpng,vqcfzabrvajvc.ckg
 abljc,vfbhvc.ckgv abljcv fknabrvfvhfgxvAvplzzmpchvjscvqfomkfjmkgvsfh
occbvhcpjkmgchvfbhvAvsfhvym cvabjmvjscvmzcbvfakxvAvsfhvfvha va zkcppamb
mtvpyfttmqhabr,voljvAvufpvfqkcfhgvrmabrvjmmvtfpjvjmvocvymbpyamlpvmtvfbg
 m.abrvjsabrpxvJscvpqmucpjvpbfaqvjsfjvc.ckvykfuqchvhfpschvogvjmmvtfpj
tmkv cxvJscvjuabnqabrvplyycppambvmtvhfknbcppvfbhvqarsjvufpvceycppa.cqg
zfabtlqvjmvjscvcgcxvJscb,vabvjscvabjck ajjcbjvhfknbcppcp,vAvpfuvjsc
 mmbvpzabbabrvpuatjqgvjskmlrsvsckvdlfkjckpvtkm vbcuvjmvtlqq,vfbhvsfhvf
tfabjvrqa zpcvmtvjscvyakyqabrvpjfkpxvZkcpcbjqg,vfpvAvucbjvmb,vpjaqq
rfababrv.cqmyajg,vjscvzfqzajfjambvmtvbarsjvfbhvhfgv ckrchvabjmvmbc
ymbjablmlpvrkcgbcpp;vjscvpngvjmmnvmbvfvumbhcktlqvhcczbcppvmtvoqlc,vf
pzqcbhahvql abmlpvymqmlkvqancvjsfjvmtvcfkqgvjuaqarsj;vjscvicknabrvplb
ocyf cvfvpjkcfnvmtvtakc,vfvokaqqafbjvfkys,vabvpzfyc;vjscv mmbvfvtfabjck
tqlyjlfjabrvofbh;vfbhvAvymlqhvpccvbmjsabrvmtvjscvpjfkp,vpf.cvbmuvfbh
jscbvfvokarsjckvyakyqcvtqaynckabrvabvjscvoqlcx

“Jscvqfbhpyfzcvufpv apjgvfbhv.frlcxvAvufpvpjaqqvmbvjscvsaqqpahcvlzmb
usaysvjsapvsmlpcvbmuvpjfbhp,vfbhvjscvpsmlqhckvkmpcvfom.cv cvrkcgvfbh
ha xvAvpfuvjkccpvrkmuabrvfbhvysfbrabrvqancvzlttpvmtv.fzmlk,vbmuvokmub,
bmuvrkccb;vjscgvrkcu,vpzkcfh,vpsa.ckch,vfbhvzfppchvfufgxvAvpfuvslrc
olaqhabrpvkapcvlzvtfabjvfbhvtfak,vfbhvzfppvqancvhkcf pxvJscvusmqc
plktfycvmtvjscvcfkjsvpcc chvysfbrch— cqjabrvfbhvtqmuabrvlbhckv gvcgcpx
Jscvqajjqcvsfbhpvlzmbvjscvhafqpvjsfjvkcrapjckchv gvpzcchvkfychvkmlbh
tfpjckvfbhvtfpjckxvZkcpcbjqgvAvbmjchvjsfjvjscvplbvocqjvpufgchvlzvfbh
hmub,vtkm vpmqpjaycvjmvpmqpjayc,vabvfv abljcvmkvqcpp,vfbhvjsfj
ymbpcdlcbjqgv gvzfycvufpvm.ckvfvgcfkvfv abljc;vfbhv abljcvogv abljcvjsc
usajcvpbmuvtqfpschvfykmppvjscvumkqh,vfbhv.fbapsch,vfbhvufpvtmqqmuchvog
jscvokarsj,vokactvrkccbvmtvpzkabrx

“JscvlbzqcfpfbjvpcbpfjambpvmtvjscvpjfkjvuckcvqcppvzmarbfbjvbmuxvJscg
 ckrchvfjvqfpjvabjmvfvnabhvmtvsgpjckayfqvcesaqfkfjambxvAvkc fknch,
abhcch,vfvyql pgvpufgabrvmtvjscv fysabc,vtmkvusaysvAvufpvlbfoqcvjm
fyymlbjxvOljv gv abhvufpvjmmvymbtlpchvjmvfjjcbhvjmvaj,vpmvuajsvfvnabh
mtv fhbcppvrkmuabrvlzmbv c,vAvtqlbrv gpcqtvabjmvtljlkajgxvFjvtakpjvA
pyfkycvjsmlrsjvmtvpjmzzabr,vpyfkycvjsmlrsjvmtvfbgjsabrvoljvjscpcvbcu
pcbpfjambpxvOljvzkcpcbjqgvfvtkcpsvpckacpvmtva zkcppambpvrkcuvlzvabv g
 abh—fvyckjfabvylkampajgvfbhvjsckcuajsvfvyckjfabvhkcfh—lbjaqvfjvqfpj
jscgvjmmnvym zqcjcvzmppcppambvmtv cxvUsfjvpjkfbrcvhc.cqmz cbjpvmt
sl fbajg,vusfjvumbhcktlqvfh.fbycpvlzmbvmlkvklha cbjfkgvya.aqapfjamb,vA
jsmlrsj,v arsjvbmjvfzzcfkvuscbvAvyf cvjmvqmmnvbcfkqgvabjmvjscvha 
cqlpa.cvumkqhvjsfjvkfychvfbhvtqlyjlfjchvoctmkcv gvcgcp!vAvpfuvrkcfjvfbh
pzqcbhahvfkysajcyjlkcvkapabrvfomljv c,v mkcv fppa.cvjsfbvfbgvolaqhabrp
mtvmlkvmubvja c,vfbhvgcj,vfpvajvpcc ch,volaqjvmtvrqa  ckvfbhv apjxvA
pfuvfvkaysckvrkccbvtqmuvlzvjscvsaqqpahc,vfbhvkc fabvjsckc,vuajsmljvfbg
uabjkgvabjck appambxvC.cbvjskmlrsvjscv.caqvmtv gvymbtlpambvjscvcfkjs
pcc chv.ckgvtfakxvFbhvpmv gv abhvyf cvkmlbhvjmvjscvolpabcppvmt
pjmzzabrx

“Jscvzcylqafkvkapnvqfgvabvjscvzmppaoaqajgvmtv gvtabhabrvpm cvplopjfbyc
abvjscvpzfycvusaysvA,vmkvjscv fysabc,vmyylzachxvPmvqmbrvfpvAvjkf.cqqch
fjvfvsarsv.cqmyajgvjskmlrsvja c,vjsapvpyfkycqgv fjjckch:vAvufp,vpmvjm
pzcfn,vfjjcblfjch—ufpvpqazzabrvqancvfv.fzmlkvjskmlrsvjscvabjckpjaycpvmt
abjck.cbabrvplopjfbycp!vOljvjmvym cvjmvfvpjmzvab.mq.chvjscvif  abrvmt
 gpcqt,v mqcylqcvogv mqcylqc,vabjmvusfjc.ckvqfgvabv gvufg;v cfbj
okabrabrv gvfjm pvabjmvplysvabja fjcvymbjfyjvuajsvjsmpcvmtvjscvmopjfyqc
jsfjvfvzkmtmlbhvysc ayfqvkcfyjamb—zmppaoqgvfvtfk-kcfysabr
cezqmpamb—umlqhvkcplqj,vfbhvoqmuv gpcqtvfbhv gvfzzfkfjlpvmljvmtvfqq
zmppaoqcvha cbpambp—abjmvjscvLbnbmubxvJsapvzmppaoaqajgvsfhvmyylkkchvjm
 cvfrfabvfbhvfrfabvusaqcvAvufpv fnabrvjscv fysabc;voljvjscbvAvsfh
ysccktlqqgvfyyczjchvajvfpvfbvlbf.mahfoqcvkapn—mbcvmtvjscvkapnpvfv fb
sfpvrmjvjmvjfnc!vBmuvjscvkapnvufpvabc.ajfoqc,vAvbmvqmbrckvpfuvajvabvjsc
pf cvysccktlqvqarsjxvJscvtfyjvapvjsfj,vabpcbpaoqg,vjscvfopmqljc
pjkfbrcbcppvmtvc.ckgjsabr,vjscvpaynqgvifkkabrvfbhvpufgabrvmtvjsc
 fysabc,vfom.cvfqq,vjscvtccqabrvmtvzkmqmbrchvtfqqabr,vsfhvfopmqljcqg
lzpcjv gvbck.cpxvAvjmqhv gpcqtvjsfjvAvymlqhvbc.ckvpjmz,vfbhvuajsvfvrlpj
mtvzcjlqfbycvAvkcpmq.chvjmvpjmzvtmkjsuajsxvQancvfbva zfjacbjvtmmq,vA
qlrrchvm.ckvjscvqc.ck,vfbhvabymbjabcbjqgvjscvjsabrvucbjvkccqabrvm.ck,
fbhvAvufpvtqlbrvscfhqmbrvjskmlrsvjscvfakx

“Jsckcvufpvjscvpmlbhvmtvfvyqfzvmtvjslbhckvabv gvcfkpxvAv fgvsf.cvoccb
pjlbbchvtmkvfv m cbjxvFvzajaqcppvsfaqvufpvsappabrvkmlbhv c,vfbhvAvufp
pajjabrvmbvpmtjvjlktvabvtkmbjvmtvjscvm.ckpcjv fysabcxvC.ckgjsabrvpjaqq
pcc chvrkcg,voljvzkcpcbjqgvAvkc fknchvjsfjvjscvymbtlpambvabv gvcfkpvufp
rmbcxvAvqmmnchvkmlbhv cxvAvufpvmbvusfjvpcc chvjmvocvfvqajjqcvqfubvabvf
rfkhcb,vplkkmlbhchvogvksmhmhcbhkmbvolpscp,vfbhvAvbmjaychvjsfjvjscak
 fl.cvfbhvzlkzqcvoqmppm pvuckcvhkmzzabrvabvfvpsmuckvlbhckvjscvocfjabr
mtvjscvsfaqpjmbcpxvJscvkcomlbhabr,vhfbyabrvsfaqvslbrvabvfvqajjqcvyqmlh
m.ckvjscv fysabc,vfbhvhkm.cvfqmbrvjscvrkmlbhvqancvp mncxvAbvfv m cbjvA
ufpvucjvjmvjscvpnabxv‘Tabcvsmpzajfqajg,’vpfahvA,v‘jmvfv fbvusmvsfp
jkf.cqqchvabbl ckfoqcvgcfkpvjmvpccvgmlx’

“ZkcpcbjqgvAvjsmlrsjvusfjvfvtmmqvAvufpvjmvrcjvucjxvAvpjmmhvlzvfbh
qmmnchvkmlbhv cxvFvymqmppfqvtarlkc,vyfk.chvfzzfkcbjqgvabvpm cvusajc
pjmbc,vqmm chvabhapjabyjqgvocgmbhvjscvksmhmhcbhkmbpvjskmlrsvjscvsfwg
hmubzmlkxvOljvfqqvcqpcvmtvjscvumkqhvufpvab.apaoqcx

“ gvpcbpfjambpvumlqhvocvsfkhvjmvhcpykaocxvFpvjscvymql bpvmtvsfaqvrkcu
jsabbck,vAvpfuvjscvusajcvtarlkcv mkcvhapjabyjqgxvAjvufpv.ckgvqfkrc,vtmk
fvpaq.ckvoakys-jkccvjmlyschvajpvpsmlqhckxvAjvufpvmtvusajcv fkoqc,vab
psfzcvpm cjsabrvqancvfvuabrchvpzsabe,voljvjscvuabrp,vabpjcfhvmtvocabr
yfkkachv.ckjayfqqgvfjvjscvpahcp,vuckcvpzkcfhvpmvjsfjvajvpcc chvjm
sm.ckxvJscvzchcpjfq,vajvfzzcfkchvjmv c,vufpvmtvokmbwc,vfbhvufpvjsayn
uajsv.ckharkapxvAjvysfbychvjsfjvjscvtfycvufpvjmufkhpv c;vjscvparsjqcpp
cgcpvpcc chvjmvufjysv c;vjsckcvufpvjscvtfabjvpsfhmuvmtvfvp aqcvmbvjsc
qazpxvAjvufpvrkcfjqgvucfjsck-umkb,vfbhvjsfjva zfkjchvfbvlbzqcfpfbj
plrrcpjambvmtvhapcfpcxvAvpjmmhvqmmnabrvfjvajvtmkvfvqajjqcvpzfyc—sfqtvf
 abljc,vzcksfzp,vmkvsfqtvfbvsmlkxvAjvpcc chvjmvfh.fbycvfbhvjmvkcychcvfp
jscvsfaqvhkm.cvoctmkcvajvhcbpckvmkvjsabbckxvFjvqfpjvAvjmkcv gvcgcpvtkm 
ajvtmkvfv m cbj,vfbhvpfuvjsfjvjscvsfaqvylkjfabvsfhvumkbvjskcfhofkc,vfbh
jsfjvjscvpngvufpvqarsjcbabrvuajsvjscvzkm apcvmtvjscvplbx

“Avqmmnchvlzvfrfabvfjvjscvykmlysabrvusajcvpsfzc,vfbhvjscvtlqqvjc ckajg
mtv gv.mgfrcvyf cvplhhcbqgvlzmbv cxvUsfjv arsjvfzzcfkvuscbvjsfjvsfwg
ylkjfabvufpvfqjmrcjsckvuajshkfub?vUsfjv arsjvbmjvsf.cvsfzzcbchvjmv cb?
Usfjvatvyklcqjgvsfhvrkmubvabjmvfvym  mbvzfppamb?vUsfjvatvabvjsap
abjck.fqvjscvkfycvsfhvqmpjvajpv fbqabcpp,vfbhvsfhvhc.cqmzchvabjm
pm cjsabrvabsl fb,vlbpg zfjscjay,vfbhvm.ckuscq abrqgvzmucktlq?vAv arsj
pcc vpm cvmqh-umkqhvpf.frcvfba fq,vmbqgvjscv mkcvhkcfhtlqvfbh
haprlpjabrvtmkvmlkvym  mbvqancbcpp—fvtmlqvykcfjlkcvjmvocvabymbjabcbjqg
pqfabx

“FqkcfhgvAvpfuvmjsckv.fpjvpsfzcp—slrcvolaqhabrpvuajsvabjkayfjcvzfkfzcjp
fbhvjfqqvymql bp,vuajsvfvummhchvsaqqpahcvha qgvykcczabrvabvlzmbv c
jskmlrsvjscvqcppcbabrvpjmk xvAvufpvpcawchvuajsvfvzfbayvtcfkxvAvjlkbch
tkfbjayfqqgvjmvjscvJa cv fysabc,vfbhvpjkm.cvsfkhvjmvkcfhilpjvajxvFpvA
hahvpmvjscvpsftjpvmtvjscvplbvp mjcvjskmlrsvjscvjslbhckpjmk xvJscvrkcg
hmubzmlkvufpvpuczjvfpahcvfbhv.fbapschvqancvjscvjkfaqabrvrfk cbjpvmtvf
rsmpjxvFom.cv c,vabvjscvabjcbpcvoqlcvmtvjscvpl  ckvpng,vpm cvtfabj
okmubvpskchpvmtvyqmlhvusakqchvabjmvbmjsabrbcppxvJscvrkcfjvolaqhabrp
fomljv cvpjmmhvmljvyqcfkvfbhvhapjabyj,vpsababrvuajsvjscvucjvmtvjsc
jslbhckpjmk ,vfbhvzaynchvmljvabvusajcvogvjscvlb cqjchvsfaqpjmbcpvzaqch
fqmbrvjscakvymlkpcpxvAvtcqjvbfnchvabvfvpjkfbrcvumkqhxvAvtcqjvfpvzcksfzp
fvoakhv fgvtccqvabvjscvyqcfkvfak,vnbmuabrvjscvsfunvuabrpvfom.cvfbhvuaqq
pummzxv gvtcfkvrkcuvjmvtkcbwgxvAvjmmnvfvokcfjsabrvpzfyc,vpcjv gvjccjs,
fbhvfrfabvrkfzzqchvtackycqg,vukapjvfbhvnbcc,vuajsvjscv fysabcxvAjvrf.c
lbhckv gvhcpzckfjcvmbpcjvfbhvjlkbchvm.ckxvAjvpjklynv gvysabv.amqcbjqgx
Mbcvsfbhvmbvjscvpfhhqc,vjscvmjsckvmbvjscvqc.ck,vAvpjmmhvzfbjabrvscf.aqg
abvfjjajlhcvjmv mlbjvfrfabx

“Oljvuajsvjsapvkcym.ckgvmtvfvzkm zjvkcjkcfjv gvymlkfrcvkcym.ckchxvA
qmmnchv mkcvylkamlpqgvfbhvqcppvtcfktlqqgvfjvjsapvumkqhvmtvjscvkc mjc
tljlkcxvAbvfvyakylqfkvmzcbabr,vsarsvlzvabvjscvufqqvmtvjscvbcfkckvsmlpc,
AvpfuvfvrkmlzvmtvtarlkcpvyqfhvabvkaysvpmtjvkmocpxvJscgvsfhvpccbv c,vfbh
jscakvtfycpvuckcvhakcyjchvjmufkhpv cx

“JscbvAvscfkhv.maycpvfzzkmfysabrv cxvYm abrvjskmlrsvjscvolpscpvogvjsc
UsajcvPzsabevuckcvjscvscfhpvfbhvpsmlqhckpvmtv cbvklbbabrxvMbcvmtvjscpc
c ckrchvabvfvzfjsufgvqcfhabrvpjkfarsjvjmvjscvqajjqcvqfubvlzmbvusaysvA
pjmmhvuajsv gv fysabcxvScvufpvfvpqarsjvykcfjlkc—zcksfzpvtmlkvtccj
sars—yqfhvabvfvzlkzqcvjlbay,vrakhqchvfjvjscvufapjvuajsvfvqcfjsckvocqjx
Pfbhfqpvmkvolpnabp—Avymlqhvbmjvyqcfkqgvhapjabrlapsvusays—uckcvmbvsap
tccj;vsapvqcrpvuckcvofkcvjmvjscvnbccp,vfbhvsapvscfhvufpvofkcxvBmjayabr
jsfj,vAvbmjaychvtmkvjscvtakpjvja cvsmuvufk vjscvfakvufpx

“Scvpjklynv cvfpvocabrvfv.ckgvocfljatlqvfbhvrkfyctlqvykcfjlkc,volj
abhcpykaofoqgvtkfaqxvSapvtqlpschvtfycvkc abhchv cvmtvjscv mkcvocfljatlq
nabhvmtvymbpl zja.c—jsfjvscyjayvocfljgvmtvusaysvucvlpchvjmvscfkvpm
 lysxvFjvjscvparsjvmtvsa vAvplhhcbqgvkcrfabchvymbtahcbycxvAvjmmnv g
sfbhpvtkm vjscv fysabcx



v.


vAbvjscvRmqhcbvFrc

“Abvfbmjsckv m cbjvucvuckcvpjfbhabrvtfycvjmvtfyc,vAvfbhvjsapvtkfraqc
jsabrvmljvmtvtljlkajgxvScvyf cvpjkfarsjvlzvjmv cvfbhvqflrschvabjmv g
cgcpxvJscvfopcbycvtkm vsapvocfkabrvmtvfbgvparbvmtvtcfkvpjklynv cvfj
mbycxvJscbvscvjlkbchvjmvjscvjumvmjsckpvusmvuckcvtmqqmuabrvsa vfbhvpzmnc
jmvjsc vabvfvpjkfbrcvfbhv.ckgvpuccjvfbhvqadlahvjmbrlcx

“Jsckcvuckcvmjsckpvym abr,vfbhvzkcpcbjqgvfvqajjqcvrkmlzvmtvzcksfzp
carsjvmkvjcbvmtvjscpcvcedlapajcvykcfjlkcpvuckcvfomljv cxvMbcvmtvjsc 
fhhkcppchv cxvAjvyf cvabjmv gvscfh,vmhhqgvcbmlrs,vjsfjv gv.maycvufpvjmm
sfkpsvfbhvhcczvtmkvjsc xvPmvAvpsmmnv gvscfh,vfbh,vzmabjabrvjmv gvcfkp,
psmmnvajvfrfabxvScvyf cvfvpjczvtmkufkh,vscpajfjch,vfbhvjscbvjmlyschv g
sfbhxvJscbvAvtcqjvmjsckvpmtjvqajjqcvjcbjfyqcpvlzmbv gvofynvfbh
psmlqhckpxvJscgvufbjchvjmv fncvplkcvAvufpvkcfqxvJsckcvufpvbmjsabrvab
jsapvfjvfqqvfqfk abrxvAbhcch,vjsckcvufpvpm cjsabrvabvjscpcvzkcjjg
qajjqcvzcmzqcvjsfjvabpzakchvymbtahcbyc—fvrkfyctlqvrcbjqcbcpp,vfvyckjfab
ysaqhqancvcfpcxvFbhvocpahcp,vjscgvqmmnchvpmvtkfaqvjsfjvAvymlqhvtfbyg
 gpcqtvtqabrabrvjscvusmqcvhmwcbvmtvjsc vfomljvqancvbabczabpxvOljvAv fhc
fvplhhcbv mjambvjmvufkbvjsc vuscbvAvpfuvjscakvqajjqcvzabnvsfbhpvtccqabr
fjvjscvJa cv fysabcxvSfzzaqgvjscb,vuscbvajvufpvbmjvjmmvqfjc,vAvjsmlrsj
mtvfvhfbrckvAvsfhvsajsckjmvtmkrmjjcb,vfbhvkcfysabrvm.ckvjscvofkpvmtvjsc
 fysabcvAvlbpykcuchvjscvqajjqcvqc.ckpvjsfjvumlqhvpcjvajvabv mjamb,vfbh
zljvjscpcvabv gvzmyncjxvJscbvAvjlkbchvfrfabvjmvpccvusfjvAvymlqhvhmvab
jscvufgvmtvym  lbayfjambx

“Fbhvjscb,vqmmnabrv mkcvbcfkqgvabjmvjscakvtcfjlkcp,vAvpfuvpm cvtlkjsck
zcylqafkajacpvabvjscakvHkcphcbvysabfvjgzcvmtvzkcjjabcppxvJscakvsfak,
usaysvufpvlbatmk qgvylkqg,vyf cvjmvfvpsfkzvcbhvfjvjscvbcynvfbhvysccn;
jsckcvufpvbmjvjscvtfabjcpjvplrrcpjambvmtvajvmbvjscvtfyc,vfbhvjscakvcfkp
uckcvpabrlqfkqgv abljcxvJscv mljspvuckcvp fqq,vuajsvokarsjvkch,vkfjsck
jsabvqazp,vfbhvjscvqajjqcvysabpvkfbvjmvfvzmabjxvJscvcgcpvuckcvqfkrcvfbh
 aqh;vfbh—jsapv fgvpcc vcrmjap vmbv gvzfkj—Avtfbyachvc.cbvjsfjvjsckc
ufpvfvyckjfabvqfynvmtvjscvabjckcpjvAv arsjvsf.cvcezcyjchvabvjsc x

“Fpvjscgv fhcvbmvcttmkjvjmvym  lbayfjcvuajsv c,voljvpa zqgvpjmmhvkmlbh
 cvp aqabrvfbhvpzcfnabrvabvpmtjvymmabrvbmjcpvjmvcfysvmjsck,vAvocrfbvjsc
ymb.ckpfjambxvAvzmabjchvjmvjscvJa cv fysabcvfbhvjmv gpcqtxvJscb,
scpajfjabrvtmkvfv m cbjvsmuvjmvcezkcppvJa c,vAvzmabjchvjmvjscvplbxvFj
mbycvfvdlfabjqgvzkcjjgvqajjqcvtarlkcvabvyscdlckchvzlkzqcvfbhvusajc
tmqqmuchv gvrcpjlkc,vfbhvjscbvfpjmbapschv cvogva ajfjabrvjscvpmlbhvmt
jslbhckx

“Tmkvfv m cbjvAvufpvpjfrrckch,vjsmlrsvjscva zmkjvmtvsapvrcpjlkcvufp
zqfabvcbmlrsxvJscvdlcpjambvsfhvym cvabjmv gv abhvfoklzjqg:vuckcvjscpc
ykcfjlkcpvtmmqp?vGmlv fgvsfkhqgvlbhckpjfbhvsmuvajvjmmnv cxvGmlvpcc,vA
sfhvfqufgpvfbjayazfjchvjsfjvjscvzcmzqcvmtvjscvgcfkvCarsjvSlbhkchvfbh
JumvJsmlpfbhvmhhvumlqhvocvabykchaoqgvabvtkmbjvmtvlpvabvnbmuqchrc,vfkj,
c.ckgjsabrxvJscbvmbcvmtvjsc vplhhcbqgvfpnchv cvfvdlcpjambvjsfjvpsmuch
sa vjmvocvmbvjscvabjcqqcyjlfqvqc.cqvmtvmbcvmtvmlkvta.c-gcfk-mqh
ysaqhkcb—fpnchv c,vabvtfyj,vatvAvsfhvym cvtkm vjscvplbvabvf
jslbhckpjmk !vAjvqcjvqmmpcvjscvilhr cbjvAvsfhvplpzcbhchvlzmbvjscak
yqmjscp,vjscakvtkfaqvqarsjvqa op,vfbhvtkfraqcvtcfjlkcpxvFvtqmuvmt
hapfzzmabj cbjvklpschvfykmppv gv abhxvTmkvfv m cbjvAvtcqjvjsfjvAvsfh
olaqjvjscvJa cv fysabcvabv.fabx

“Avbmhhch,vzmabjchvjmvjscvplb,vfbhvrf.cvjsc vplysvfv.a.ahvkcbhckabrvmt
fvjslbhckyqfzvfpvpjfkjqchvjsc xvJscgvfqqvuajshkcuvfvzfycvmkvpmvfbh
omuchxvJscbvyf cvmbcvqflrsabrvjmufkhpv c,vyfkkgabrvfvysfabvmtvocfljatlq
tqmuckpvfqjmrcjsckvbcuvjmv c,vfbhvzljvajvfomljv gvbcynxvJscvahcfvufp
kcyca.chvuajsv cqmhamlpvfzzqflpc;vfbhvzkcpcbjqgvjscgvuckcvfqqvklbbabr
jmvfbhvtkmvtmkvtqmuckp,vfbhvqflrsabrqgvtqabrabrvjsc vlzmbv cvlbjaqvA
ufpvfq mpjvp mjsckchvuajsvoqmppm xvGmlvusmvsf.cvbc.ckvpccbvjscvqancvyfb
pyfkycqgva frabcvusfjvhcqayfjcvfbhvumbhcktlqvtqmuckpvymlbjqcppvgcfkpvmt
ylqjlkcvsfhvykcfjchxvJscbvpm cmbcvplrrcpjchvjsfjvjscakvzqfgjsabrvpsmlqh
ocvcesaoajchvabvjscvbcfkcpjvolaqhabr,vfbhvpmvAvufpvqchvzfpjvjscvpzsabe
mtvusajcv fkoqc,vusaysvsfhvpcc chvjmvufjysv cvfqqvjscvusaqcvuajsvf
p aqcvfjv gvfpjmbaps cbj,vjmufkhpvfv.fpjvrkcgvchataycvmtvtkcjjchvpjmbcx
FpvAvucbjvuajsvjsc vjscv c mkgvmtv gvymbtahcbjvfbjayazfjambpvmtvf
zkmtmlbhqgvrkf.cvfbhvabjcqqcyjlfqvzmpjckajgvyf c,vuajsvakkcpapjaoqc
 ckka cbj,vjmv gv abhx

“Jscvolaqhabrvsfhvfvslrcvcbjkg,vfbhvufpvfqjmrcjsckvmtvymqmppfq
ha cbpambpxvAvufpvbfjlkfqqgv mpjvmyylzachvuajsvjscvrkmuabrvykmuhvmt
qajjqcvzcmzqc,vfbhvuajsvjscvoarvmzcbvzmkjfqpvjsfjvgfubchvoctmkcv c
psfhmugvfbhv gpjckamlpxv gvrcbckfqva zkcppambvmtvjscvumkqhvAvpfuvm.ck
jscakvscfhpvufpvfvjfbrqchvufpjcvmtvocfljatlqvolpscpvfbhvtqmuckp,vfvqmbr
bcrqcyjchvfbhvgcjvucchqcppvrfkhcbxvAvpfuvfvbl ockvmtvjfqqvpzancpvmt
pjkfbrcvusajcvtqmuckp,v cfplkabrvfvtmmjvzcksfzpvfykmppvjscvpzkcfhvmt
jscvufecbvzcjfqpxvJscgvrkcuvpyfjjckch,vfpvatvuaqh,vf mbrvjscv.fkacrfjch
psklop,volj,vfpvAvpfg,vAvhahvbmjvcef abcvjsc vyqmpcqgvfjvjsapvja cxvJsc
Ja cv fysabcvufpvqctjvhcpckjchvmbvjscvjlktvf mbrvjscvksmhmhcbhkmbpx

“Jscvfkysvmtvjscvhmmkufgvufpvkaysqgvyfk.ch,voljvbfjlkfqqgvAvhahvbmj
mopck.cvjscvyfk.abrv.ckgvbfkkmuqg,vjsmlrsvAvtfbyachvAvpfuvplrrcpjambp
mtvmqhvZsœbayafbvhcymkfjambpvfpvAvzfppchvjskmlrs,vfbhvajvpjklynv cvjsfj
jscgvuckcv.ckgvofhqgvokmncbvfbhvucfjsck-umkbxvPc.ckfqv mkcvokarsjqg
yqfhvzcmzqcv cjv cvabvjscvhmmkufg,vfbhvpmvucvcbjckch,vA,vhkcppchvab
habrgvbabcjccbjs-ycbjlkgvrfk cbjp,vqmmnabrvrkmjcpdlcvcbmlrs,vrfkqfbhch
uajsvtqmuckp,vfbhvplkkmlbhchvogvfbvchhgabrv fppvmtvokarsj,
pmtj-ymqmlkchvkmocpvfbhvpsababrvusajcvqa op,vabvfv cqmhamlpvusakqvmt
qflrsjckvfbhvqflrsabrvpzccysx

“Jscvoarvhmmkufgvmzcbchvabjmvfvzkmzmkjambfjcqgvrkcfjvsfqqvslbrvuajs
okmubxvJscvkmmtvufpvabvpsfhmu,vfbhvjscvuabhmup,vzfkjafqqgvrqfwchvuajs
ymqmlkchvrqfppvfbhvzfkjafqqgvlbrqfwch,vfh ajjchvfvjc zckchvqarsjxvJsc
tqmmkvufpv fhcvlzvmtvslrcvoqmynpvmtvpm cv.ckgvsfkhvusajcv cjfq,vbmj
zqfjcpvbmkvpqfop—oqmynp,vfbhvajvufpvpmv lysvumkb,vfpvAvilhrchvogvjsc
rmabrvjmvfbhvtkmvmtvzfpjvrcbckfjambp,vfpvjmvocvhcczqgvysfbbcqqchvfqmbr
jscv mkcvtkcdlcbjchvufgpxvJkfbp.ckpcvjmvjscvqcbrjsvuckcvabbl ckfoqc
jfoqcpv fhcvmtvpqfopvmtvzmqapschvpjmbc,vkfapch,vzcksfzp,vfvtmmjvtkm 
jscvtqmmk,vfbhvlzmbvjscpcvuckcvscfzpvmtvtklajpxvPm cvAvkcymrbapchvfpvf
nabhvmtvsgzckjkmzsachvkfpzockkgvfbhvmkfbrc,voljvtmkvjscv mpjvzfkjvjscg
uckcvpjkfbrcx

“Ocjuccbvjscvjfoqcpvufpvpyfjjckchvfvrkcfjvbl ockvmtvylpsambpxvLzmb
jscpcv gvymbhlyjmkpvpcfjchvjsc pcq.cp,vparbabrvtmkv cvjmvhmvqancuapcx
Uajsvfvzkcjjgvfopcbycvmtvyckc mbgvjscgvocrfbvjmvcfjvjscvtklajvuajs
jscakvsfbhp,vtqabrabrvzccqvfbhvpjfqnp,vfbhvpmvtmkjs,vabjmvjscvkmlbh
mzcbabrpvabvjscvpahcpvmtvjscvjfoqcpxvAvufpvbmjvqmfjsvjmvtmqqmuvjscak
cef zqc,vtmkvAvtcqjvjsakpjgvfbhvslbrkgxvFpvAvhahvpmvAvplk.cgchvjscvsfqq
fjv gvqcaplkcx

“Fbhvzcksfzpvjscvjsabrvjsfjvpjklynv cv mpjvufpvajpvhaqfzahfjchvqmmnx
Jscvpjfabch-rqfppvuabhmup,vusaysvhapzqfgchvmbqgvfvrcm cjkayfqvzfjjckb,
uckcvokmncbvabv fbgvzqfycp,vfbhvjscvylkjfabpvjsfjvslbrvfykmppvjscvqmuck
cbhvuckcvjsaynvuajsvhlpjxvFbhvajvyflrsjv gvcgcvjsfjvjscvymkbckvmtvjsc
 fkoqcvjfoqcvbcfkv cvufpvtkfyjlkchxvBc.ckjscqcpp,vjscvrcbckfqvcttcyj
ufpvcejkc cqgvkaysvfbhvzayjlkcpdlcxvJsckcvuckc,vzcksfzp,vfvymlzqcvmt
slbhkchvzcmzqcvhababrvabvjscvsfqq,vfbhv mpjvmtvjsc ,vpcfjchvfpvbcfkvjm
 cvfpvjscgvymlqhvym c,vuckcvufjysabrv cvuajsvabjckcpj,vjscakvqajjqc
cgcpvpsababrvm.ckvjscvtklajvjscgvuckcvcfjabrxvFqqvuckcvyqfhvabvjscvpf c
pmtj,vfbhvgcjvpjkmbr,vpaqngv fjckafqx

“Tklaj,vogvjscvogc,vufpvfqqvjscakvhacjxvJscpcvzcmzqcvmtvjscvkc mjc
tljlkcvuckcvpjkayjv.crcjfkafbp,vfbhvusaqcvAvufpvuajsvjsc ,vabvpzajcvmt
pm cvyfkbfqvykf.abrp,vAvsfhvjmvocvtklra.mkmlpvfqpmxvAbhcch,vAvtmlbh
ftjckufkhpvjsfjvsmkpcp,vyfjjqc,vpsccz,vhmrp,vsfhvtmqqmuchvjsc
AysjsgmpflklpvabjmvcejabyjambxvOljvjscvtklajpvuckcv.ckgvhcqarsjtlq;
mbc,vabvzfkjaylqfk,vjsfjvpcc chvjmvocvabvpcfpmbvfqqvjscvja cvAvufp
jsckc—fvtqmlkgvjsabrvabvfvjskcc-pahchvslpn—ufpvcpzcyafqqgvrmmh,vfbhvA
 fhcvajv gvpjfzqcxvFjvtakpjvAvufpvzlwwqchvogvfqqvjscpcvpjkfbrcvtklajp,
fbhvogvjscvpjkfbrcvtqmuckpvAvpfu,voljvqfjckvAvocrfbvjmvzckyca.cvjscak
a zmkjx

“Smuc.ck,vAvf vjcqqabrvgmlvmtv gvtklajvhabbckvabvjscvhapjfbjvtljlkc
bmuxvPmvpmmbvfpv gvfzzcjajcvufpvfvqajjqcvyscynch,vAvhcjck abchvjmv fnc
fvkcpmqljcvfjjc zjvjmvqcfkbvjscvpzccysvmtvjscpcvbcuv cbvmtv abcx
YqcfkqgvjsfjvufpvjscvbcejvjsabrvjmvhmxvJscvtklajpvpcc chvfvymb.cbacbj
jsabrvjmvocrabvlzmb,vfbhvsmqhabrvmbcvmtvjscpcvlzvAvocrfbvfvpckacpvmt
abjckkmrfja.cvpmlbhpvfbhvrcpjlkcpxvAvsfhvpm cvymbpahckfoqcvhattaylqjg
abvymb.cgabrv gv cfbabrxvFjvtakpjv gvcttmkjpv cjvuajsvfvpjfkcvmt
plkzkapcvmkvabcejabrlapsfoqcvqflrsjck,voljvzkcpcbjqgvfvtfak-sfakch
qajjqcvykcfjlkcvpcc chvjmvrkfpzv gvabjcbjambvfbhvkczcfjchvfvbf cxvJscg
sfhvjmvysfjjckvfbhvcezqfabvjscvolpabcppvfjvrkcfjvqcbrjsvjmvcfysvmjsck,
fbhv gvtakpjvfjjc zjpvjmv fncvjscvcedlapajcvqajjqcvpmlbhpvmtvjscak
qfbrlfrcvyflpchvfbva  cbpcvf mlbjvmtvrcblabc,vatvlbya.aq,vf lpc cbjx
Smuc.ck,vAvtcqjvqancvfvpysmmq fpjckvf ahpjvysaqhkcb,vfbhvzckpapjch,vfbh
zkcpcbjqgvAvsfhvfvpymkcvmtvbmlbvplopjfbja.cpvfjvqcfpjvfjv gvym  fbh;
fbhvjscbvAvrmjvjmvhc mbpjkfja.cvzkmbmlbp,vfbhvc.cbvjscv.ckov‘jmvcfjx’
Oljvajvufpvpqmuvumkn,vfbhvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvpmmbvjakchvfbhvufbjchvjm
rcjvfufgvtkm v gvabjckkmrfjambp,vpmvAvhcjck abch,vkfjsckvmtvbcycppajg,
jmvqcjvjsc vra.cvjscakvqcppmbpvabvqajjqcvhmpcpvuscbvjscgvtcqjvabyqabchx
Fbhv.ckgvqajjqcvhmpcpvAvtmlbhvjscgvuckcvoctmkcvqmbr,vtmkvAvbc.ckv cj
zcmzqcv mkcvabhmqcbjvmkv mkcvcfpaqgvtfjarlchx



v.A


vJscvPlbpcjvmtv fbnabh

“FvdlcckvjsabrvAvpmmbvhapym.ckchvfomljv gvqajjqcvsmpjp,vfbhvjsfjvufp
jscakvqfynvmtvabjckcpjxvJscgvumlqhvym cvjmv cvuajsvcfrckvykacpvmt
fpjmbaps cbj,vqancvysaqhkcb,volj,vqancvysaqhkcbvjscgvumlqhvpmmbvpjmz
cef ababrv c,vfbhvufbhckvfufgvftjckvpm cvmjsckvjmgxvJscvhabbckvfbhv g
ymb.ckpfjambfqvocrabbabrpvcbhch,vAvbmjchvtmkvjscvtakpjvja cvjsfjvfq mpj
fqqvjsmpcvusmvsfhvplkkmlbhchv cvfjvtakpjvuckcvrmbcxvAjvapvmhh,vjmm,vsmu
pzcchaqgvAvyf cvjmvhapkcrfkhvjscpcvqajjqcvzcmzqcxvAvucbjvmljvjskmlrs
jscvzmkjfqvabjmvjscvplbqajvumkqhvfrfabvfpvpmmbvfpv gvslbrckvufp
pfjaptachxvAvufpvymbjablfqqgv ccjabrv mkcvmtvjscpcv cbvmtvjscvtljlkc,
usmvumlqhvtmqqmuv cvfvqajjqcvhapjfbyc,vysfjjckvfbhvqflrsvfomljv c,vfbh,
sf.abrvp aqchvfbhvrcpjaylqfjchvabvfvtkacbhqgvufg,vqcf.cv cvfrfabvjmv g
mubvhc.aycpx

“Jscvyfq vmtvc.cbabrvufpvlzmbvjscvumkqhvfpvAvc ckrchvtkm vjscvrkcfj
sfqq,vfbhvjscvpycbcvufpvqajvogvjscvufk vrqmuvmtvjscvpcjjabrvplbxvFj
takpjvjsabrpvuckcv.ckgvymbtlpabrxvC.ckgjsabrvufpvpmvcbjakcqgvhattckcbj
tkm vjscvumkqhvAvsfhvnbmub—c.cbvjscvtqmuckpxvJscvoarvolaqhabrvAvsfh
qctjvufpvpajlfjchvmbvjscvpqmzcvmtvfvokmfhvka.ckv.fqqcg,voljvjscvJsf cp
sfhvpsatjch,vzcksfzp,vfv aqcvtkm vajpvzkcpcbjvzmpajambxvAvkcpmq.chvjm
 mlbjvjmvjscvpl  ajvmtvfvykcpj,vzcksfzpvfv aqcvfbhvfvsfqtvfufg,vtkm 
usaysvAvymlqhvrcjvfvuahckv.acuvmtvjsapvmlkvzqfbcjvabvjscvgcfkvCarsj
SlbhkchvfbhvJumvJsmlpfbhvPc.cbvSlbhkchvfbhvMbc,vFxHxvTmkvjsfj,vAvpsmlqh
cezqfab,vufpvjscvhfjcvjscvqajjqcvhafqpvmtv gv fysabcvkcymkhchx

“FpvAvufqnchvAvufpvufjysabrvtmkvc.ckgva zkcppambvjsfjvymlqhvzmppaoqg
scqzvjmvcezqfabvjscvymbhajambvmtvklabmlpvpzqcbhmlkvabvusaysvAvtmlbhvjsc
umkqh—tmkvklabmlpvajvufpxvFvqajjqcvufgvlzvjscvsaqq,vtmkvabpjfbyc,vufpvf
rkcfjvscfzvmtvrkfbajc,vomlbhvjmrcjsckvogv fppcpvmtvfql abal ,vfv.fpj
qfogkabjsvmtvzkcyazajmlpvufqqpvfbhvykl zqchvscfzp,vf ahpjvusaysvuckc
jsaynvscfzpvmtv.ckgvocfljatlqvzfrmhf-qancvzqfbjp—bcjjqcpvzmppaoqg—olj
umbhcktlqqgvjabjchvuajsvokmubvfomljvjscvqcf.cp,vfbhvabyfzfoqcvmt
pjabrabrxvAjvufpvc.ahcbjqgvjscvhckcqayjvkc fabpvmtvpm cv.fpjvpjklyjlkc,
jmvusfjvcbhvolaqjvAvymlqhvbmjvhcjck abcxvAjvufpvsckcvjsfjvAvufp
hcpjabch,vfjvfvqfjckvhfjc,vjmvsf.cvfv.ckgvpjkfbrcvcezckacbyc—jscvtakpj
abja fjambvmtvfvpjaqqvpjkfbrckvhapym.ckg—oljvmtvjsfjvAvuaqqvpzcfnvab
ajpvzkmzckvzqfycx

“Qmmnabrvkmlbh,vuajsvfvplhhcbvjsmlrsj,vtkm vfvjckkfycvmbvusaysvAvkcpjch
tmkvfvusaqc,vAvkcfqapchvjsfjvjsckcvuckcvbmvp fqqvsmlpcpvjmvocvpccbx
Fzzfkcbjqgvjscvpabrqcvsmlpc,vfbhvzmppaoqgvc.cbvjscvsmlpcsmqh,vsfh
.fbapschxvSckcvfbhvjsckcvf mbrvjscvrkccbckgvuckcvzfqfyc-qancvolaqhabrp,
oljvjscvsmlpcvfbhvjscvymjjfrc,vusaysvtmk vplysvysfkfyjckapjayvtcfjlkcp
mtvmlkvmubvCbrqapsvqfbhpyfzc,vsfhvhapfzzcfkchx

“‘Ym  lbap ,’vpfahvAvjmv gpcqtx

“Fbhvmbvjscvsccqpvmtvjsfjvyf cvfbmjsckvjsmlrsjxvAvqmmnchvfjvjsc
sfqt-hmwcbvqajjqcvtarlkcpvjsfjvuckcvtmqqmuabrv cxvJscb,vabvfvtqfps,vA
zckyca.chvjsfjvfqqvsfhvjscvpf cvtmk vmtvympjl c,vjscvpf cvpmtjvsfakqcpp
.apfrc,vfbhvjscvpf cvrakqapsvkmjlbhajgvmtvqa oxvAjv fgvpcc vpjkfbrc,
zcksfzp,vjsfjvAvsfhvbmjvbmjaychvjsapvoctmkcxvOljvc.ckgjsabrvufpvpm
pjkfbrcxvBmu,vAvpfuvjscvtfyjvzqfabqgvcbmlrsxvAbvympjl c,vfbhvabvfqqvjsc
hattckcbycpvmtvjcejlkcvfbhvocfkabrvjsfjvbmuv fknvmttvjscvpcecpvtkm 
cfysvmjsck,vjscpcvzcmzqcvmtvjscvtljlkcvuckcvfqancxvFbhvjscvysaqhkcb
pcc chvjmv gvcgcpvjmvocvoljvjscv abafjlkcpvmtvjscakvzfkcbjpxvAvilhrch
jscbvjsfjvjscvysaqhkcbvmtvjsfjvja cvuckcvcejkc cqgvzkcymyamlp,
zsgpayfqqgvfjvqcfpj,vfbhvAvtmlbhvftjckufkhpvfolbhfbjv.ckatayfjambvmtv g
mzabambx

“Pccabrvjscvcfpcvfbhvpcylkajgvabvusaysvjscpcvzcmzqcvuckcvqa.abr,vAvtcqj
jsfjvjsapvyqmpcvkcpc oqfbycvmtvjscvpcecpvufpvftjckvfqqvusfjvmbcvumlqh
cezcyj;vtmkvjscvpjkcbrjsvmtvfv fbvfbhvjscvpmtjbcppvmtvfvum fb,vjsc
abpjajljambvmtvjscvtf aqg,vfbhvjscvhattckcbjafjambvmtvmyylzfjambpvfkc
 ckcv aqajfbjvbcycppajacpvmtvfbvfrcvmtvzsgpayfqvtmkycxvUsckcvzmzlqfjamb
apvofqfbychvfbhvfolbhfbj,v lysvysaqhocfkabrvocym cpvfbvc.aqvkfjsckvjsfb
fvoqcppabrvjmvjscvPjfjc;vusckcv.amqcbycvym cpvoljvkfkcqgvfbhvmttpzkabr
fkcvpcylkc,vjsckcvapvqcppvbcycppajg—abhcchvjsckcvapvbmvbcycppajg—tmkvfb
cttayacbjvtf aqg,vfbhvjscvpzcyafqapfjambvmtvjscvpcecpvuajsvkctckcbycvjm
jscakvysaqhkcb’pvbcchpvhapfzzcfkpxvUcvpccvpm cvocrabbabrpvmtvjsapvc.cb
abvmlkvmubvja c,vfbhvabvjsapvtljlkcvfrcvajvufpvym zqcjcxvJsap,vAv lpj
kc abhvgml,vufpv gvpzcylqfjambvfjvjscvja cxvQfjck,vAvufpvjmvfzzkcyafjc
smuvtfkvajvtcqqvpsmkjvmtvjscvkcfqajgx

“UsaqcvAvufpv lpabrvlzmbvjscpcvjsabrp,v gvfjjcbjambvufpvfjjkfyjchvogvf
zkcjjgvqajjqcvpjklyjlkc,vqancvfvucqqvlbhckvfvylzmqfxvAvjsmlrsjvabvf
jkfbpajmkgvufgvmtvjscvmhhbcppvmtvucqqpvpjaqqvceapjabr,vfbhvjscbvkcpl ch
jscvjskcfhvmtv gvpzcylqfjambpxvJsckcvuckcvbmvqfkrcvolaqhabrpvjmufkhp
jscvjmzvmtvjscvsaqq,vfbhvfpv gvufqnabrvzmuckpvuckcvc.ahcbjqg
 akfylqmlp,vAvufpvzkcpcbjqgvqctjvfqmbcvtmkvjscvtakpjvja cxvUajsvf
pjkfbrcvpcbpcvmtvtkcchm vfbhvfh.cbjlkcvAvzlpschvmbvlzvjmvjscvykcpjx

“JsckcvAvtmlbhvfvpcfjvmtvpm cvgcqqmuv cjfqvjsfjvAvhahvbmjvkcymrbapc,
ymkkmhchvabvzqfycpvuajsvfvnabhvmtvzabnapsvklpjvfbhvsfqtvp mjsckchvab
pmtjv mpp,vjscvfk -kcpjpvyfpjvfbhvtaqchvabjmvjscvkcpc oqfbycvmt
rkattabp’vscfhpxvAvpfjvhmubvmbvaj,vfbhvAvplk.cgchvjscvokmfhv.acuvmtvmlk
mqhvumkqhvlbhckvjscvplbpcjvmtvjsfjvqmbrvhfgxvAjvufpvfpvpuccjvfbhvtfakvf
.acuvfpvAvsf.cvc.ckvpccbxvJscvplbvsfhvfqkcfhgvrmbcvocqmuvjscvsmkawmb
fbhvjscvucpjvufpvtqf abrvrmqh,vjmlyschvuajsvpm cvsmkawmbjfqvofkpvmt
zlkzqcvfbhvyka pmbxvOcqmuvufpvjscv.fqqcgvmtvjscvJsf cp,vabvusaysvjsc
ka.ckvqfgvqancvfvofbhvmtvolkbapschvpjccqxvAvsf.cvfqkcfhgvpzmncbvmtvjsc
rkcfjvzfqfycpvhmjjchvfomljvf mbrvjscv.fkacrfjchvrkccbckg,vpm cvabvklabp
fbhvpm cvpjaqqvmyylzachxvSckcvfbhvjsckcvkmpcvfvusajcvmkvpaq.ckgvtarlkc
abvjscvufpjcvrfkhcbvmtvjscvcfkjs,vsckcvfbhvjsckcvyf cvjscvpsfkz
.ckjayfqvqabcvmtvpm cvylzmqfvmkvmocqapnxvJsckcvuckcvbmvschrcp,vbmvparbp
mtvzkmzkacjfkgvkarsjp,vbmvc.ahcbycpvmtvfrkaylqjlkc;vjscvusmqcvcfkjsvsfh
ocym cvfvrfkhcbx

“Pmvufjysabr,vAvocrfbvjmvzljv gvabjckzkcjfjambvlzmbvjscvjsabrpvAvsfh
pccb,vfbhvfpvajvpsfzchvajpcqtvjmv cvjsfjvc.cbabr,v gvabjckzkcjfjambvufp
pm cjsabrvabvjsapvufgxv(FtjckufkhpvAvtmlbhvAvsfhvrmjvmbqgvfvsfqt
jkljs—mkvmbqgvfvrqa zpcvmtvmbcvtfycjvmtvjscvjkljsx)

“Ajvpcc chvjmv cvjsfjvAvsfhvsfzzcbchvlzmbvsl fbajgvlzmbvjscvufbcxvJsc
klhhgvplbpcjvpcjv cvjsabnabrvmtvjscvplbpcjvmtv fbnabhxvTmkvjscvtakpj
ja cvAvocrfbvjmvkcfqapcvfbvmhhvymbpcdlcbycvmtvjscvpmyafqvcttmkjvab
usaysvucvfkcvfjvzkcpcbjvcbrfrchxvFbhvgcj,vym cvjmvjsabn,vajvapvf
qmrayfqvymbpcdlcbycvcbmlrsxvPjkcbrjsvapvjscvmljym cvmtvbcch;vpcylkajg
pcjpvfvzkc al vmbvtccoqcbcppxvJscvumknvmtvf cqamkfjabrvjscvymbhajambp
mtvqatc—jscvjklcvya.aqapabrvzkmycppvjsfjv fncpvqatcv mkcvfbhv mkc
pcylkc—sfhvrmbcvpjcfhaqgvmbvjmvfvyqa fexvMbcvjkal zsvmtvfvlbajch
sl fbajgvm.ckvBfjlkcvsfhvtmqqmuchvfbmjsckxvJsabrpvjsfjvfkcvbmuv ckc
hkcf pvsfhvocym cvzkmicyjpvhcqaockfjcqgvzljvabvsfbhvfbhvyfkkach
tmkufkhxvFbhvjscvsfk.cpjvufpvusfjvAvpfu!

“Ftjckvfqq,vjscvpfbajfjambvfbhvjscvfrkaylqjlkcvmtvjmhfgvfkcvpjaqqvab
jscvklha cbjfkgvpjfrcxvJscvpyacbycvmtvmlkvja cvsfpvfjjfynchvoljvf
qajjqcvhczfkj cbjvmtvjscvtacqhvmtvsl fbvhapcfpc,volj,vc.cbvpm,vaj
pzkcfhpvajpvmzckfjambpv.ckgvpjcfhaqgvfbhvzckpapjcbjqgxvMlkvfrkaylqjlkc
fbhvsmkjaylqjlkcvhcpjkmgvfvucchvilpjvsckcvfbhvjsckcvfbhvylqja.fjc
zcksfzpvfvpymkcvmkvpmvmtvusmqcpm cvzqfbjp,vqcf.abrvjscvrkcfjckvbl ock
jmvtarsjvmljvfvofqfbycvfpvjscgvyfbxvUcva zkm.cvmlkvtf.mlkajcvzqfbjpvfbh
fba fqp—fbhvsmuvtcuvjscgvfkc—rkfhlfqqgvogvpcqcyja.cvokcchabr;vbmuvfvbcu
fbhvocjjckvzcfys,vbmuvfvpcchqcppvrkfzc,vbmuvfvpuccjckvfbhvqfkrck
tqmuck,vbmuvfv mkcvymb.cbacbjvokcchvmtvyfjjqcxvUcva zkm.cvjsc 
rkfhlfqqg,vocyflpcvmlkvahcfqpvfkcv.frlcvfbhvjcbjfja.c,vfbhvmlk
nbmuqchrcvapv.ckgvqa ajch;vocyflpcvBfjlkc,vjmm,vapvpsgvfbhvpqmuvabvmlk
yql pgvsfbhpxvPm cvhfgvfqqvjsapvuaqqvocvocjjckvmkrfbapch,vfbhvpjaqq
ocjjckxvJsfjvapvjscvhkatjvmtvjscvylkkcbjvabvpzajcvmtvjscvchhacpxvJsc
usmqcvumkqhvuaqqvocvabjcqqarcbj,vchlyfjch,vfbhvym-mzckfjabr;vjsabrp
uaqqv m.cvtfpjckvfbhvtfpjckvjmufkhpvjscvploilrfjambvmtvBfjlkcxvAbvjsc
cbh,vuapcqgvfbhvyfkctlqqgvucvpsfqqvkcfhilpjvjscvofqfbycvmtvfba fqvfbh
.crcjfoqcvqatcvjmvplajvmlkvsl fbvbcchpx

“Jsapvfhilpj cbj,vAvpfg,v lpjvsf.cvoccbvhmbc,vfbhvhmbcvucqq;vhmbc
abhcchvtmkvfqqvJa c,vabvjscvpzfycvmtvJa cvfykmppvusaysv gv fysabcvsfh
qcfzjxvJscvfakvufpvtkccvtkm vrbfjp,vjscvcfkjsvtkm vucchpvmkvtlbra;
c.ckgusckcvuckcvtklajpvfbhvpuccjvfbhvhcqarsjtlqvtqmuckp;vokaqqafbj
oljjcktqacpvtqcuvsajsckvfbhvjsajsckxvJscvahcfqvmtvzkc.cbja.cv chayabc
ufpvfjjfabchxvHapcfpcpvsfhvoccbvpjf zchvmljxvAvpfuvbmvc.ahcbycvmtvfbg
ymbjframlpvhapcfpcpvhlkabrvfqqv gvpjfgxvFbhvAvpsfqqvsf.cvjmvjcqqvgml
qfjckvjsfjvc.cbvjscvzkmycppcpvmtvzljkctfyjambvfbhvhcyfgvsfhvoccb
zkmtmlbhqgvfttcyjchvogvjscpcvysfbrcpx

“Pmyafqvjkal zsp,vjmm,vsfhvoccbvcttcyjchxvAvpfuv fbnabhvsmlpchvab
pzqcbhahvpscqjckp,vrqmkamlpqgvyqmjsch,vfbhvfpvgcjvAvsfhvtmlbhvjsc 
cbrfrchvabvbmvjmaqxvJsckcvuckcvbmvparbpvmtvpjklrrqc,vbcajsckvpmyafqvbmk
cymbm ayfqvpjklrrqcxvJscvpsmz,vjscvfh.ckjapc cbj,vjkfttay,vfqqvjsfj
ym  ckycvusaysvymbpjajljcpvjscvomhgvmtvmlkvumkqh,vufpvrmbcxvAjvufp
bfjlkfqvmbvjsfjvrmqhcbvc.cbabrvjsfjvAvpsmlqhvil zvfjvjscvahcfvmtvf
pmyafqvzfkfhapcxvJscvhattaylqjgvmtvabykcfpabrvzmzlqfjambvsfhvoccbv cj,
Avrlcppch,vfbhvzmzlqfjambvsfhvycfpchvjmvabykcfpcx

“Oljvuajsvjsapvysfbrcvabvymbhajambvym cpvabc.ajfoqgvfhfzjfjambpvjmvjsc
ysfbrcxvUsfj,vlbqcppvoamqmrayfqvpyacbycvapvfv fppvmtvckkmkp,vapvjsc
yflpcvmtvsl fbvabjcqqarcbycvfbhv.armlk?vSfkhpsazvfbhvtkcchm :
ymbhajambpvlbhckvusaysvjscvfyja.c,vpjkmbr,vfbhvplojqcvplk.a.cvfbhvjsc
ucfnckvrmvjmvjscvufqq;vymbhajambpvjsfjvzljvfvzkc al vlzmbvjscvqmgfq
fqqafbycvmtvyfzfoqcv cb,vlzmbvpcqt-kcpjkfabj,vzfjacbyc,vfbhvhcyapambx
Fbhvjscvabpjajljambvmtvjscvtf aqg,vfbhvjscvc mjambpvjsfjvfkapcvjsckcab,
jscvtackycvicfqmlpg,vjscvjcbhckbcppvtmkvmttpzkabr,vzfkcbjfq
pcqt-hc.mjamb,vfqqvtmlbhvjscakvilpjatayfjambvfbhvplzzmkjvabvjsc
a  abcbjvhfbrckpvmtvjscvgmlbrxv_Bmu_,vusckcvfkcvjscpcva  abcbjvhfbrckp?
Jsckcvapvfvpcbja cbjvfkapabr,vfbhvajvuaqqvrkmu,vfrfabpjvymbbloafq
icfqmlpg,vfrfabpjvtackycv fjckbajg,vfrfabpjvzfppambvmtvfqqvpmkjp;
lbbcycppfkgvjsabrpvbmu,vfbhvjsabrpvjsfjv fncvlpvlbym tmkjfoqc,vpf.frc
plk.a.fqp,vhapymkhpvabvfvkctabchvfbhvzqcfpfbjvqatcx

“Avjsmlrsjvmtvjscvzsgpayfqvpqarsjbcppvmtvjscvzcmzqc,vjscakvqfynvmt
abjcqqarcbyc,vfbhvjsmpcvoarvfolbhfbjvklabp,vfbhvajvpjkcbrjscbchv g
ocqactvabvfvzcktcyjvymbdlcpjvmtvBfjlkcxvTmkvftjckvjscvofjjqcvym cp
DlacjxvSl fbajgvsfhvoccbvpjkmbr,vcbckrcjay,vfbhvabjcqqarcbj,vfbhvsfh
lpchvfqqvajpvfolbhfbjv.ajfqajgvjmvfqjckvjscvymbhajambpvlbhckvusaysvaj
qa.chxvFbhvbmuvyf cvjscvkcfyjambvmtvjscvfqjckchvymbhajambpx

“Lbhckvjscvbcuvymbhajambpvmtvzcktcyjvym tmkjvfbhvpcylkajg,vjsfj
kcpjqcppvcbckrg,vjsfjvuajsvlpvapvpjkcbrjs,vumlqhvocym cvucfnbcppxvC.cb
abvmlkvmubvja cvyckjfabvjcbhcbyacpvfbhvhcpakcp,vmbycvbcycppfkgvjm
plk.a.fq,vfkcvfvymbpjfbjvpmlkycvmtvtfaqlkcxvZsgpayfqvymlkfrcvfbhvjsc
qm.cvmtvofjjqc,vtmkvabpjfbyc,vfkcvbmvrkcfjvscqz— fgvc.cbvoc
sabhkfbycp—jmvfvya.aqapchv fbxvFbhvabvfvpjfjcvmtvzsgpayfqvofqfbycvfbh
pcylkajg,vzmuck,vabjcqqcyjlfqvfpvucqqvfpvzsgpayfq,vumlqhvocvmljvmt
zqfycxvTmkvymlbjqcppvgcfkpvAvilhrchvjsckcvsfhvoccbvbmvhfbrckvmtvufkvmk
pmqajfkgv.amqcbyc,vbmvhfbrckvtkm vuaqhvocfpjp,vbmvufpjabrvhapcfpcvjm
kcdlakcvpjkcbrjsvmtvymbpjajljamb,vbmvbcchvmtvjmaqxvTmkvplysvfvqatc,
usfjvucvpsmlqhvyfqqvjscvucfnvfkcvfpvucqqvcdlazzchvfpvjscvpjkmbr,vfkc
abhcchvbmvqmbrckvucfnxvOcjjckvcdlazzchvabhcchvjscgvfkc,vtmkvjscvpjkmbr
umlqhvocvtkcjjchvogvfbvcbckrgvtmkvusaysvjsckcvufpvbmvmljqcjxvBmvhmloj
jscvcedlapajcvocfljgvmtvjscvolaqhabrpvAvpfuvufpvjscvmljym cvmtvjscvqfpj
plkrabrpvmtvjscvbmuvzlkzmpcqcppvcbckrgvmtv fbnabhvoctmkcvajvpcjjqch
hmubvabjmvzcktcyjvsfk mbgvuajsvjscvymbhajambpvlbhckvusaysvajvqa.ch—jsc
tqmlkapsvmtvjsfjvjkal zsvusaysvocrfbvjscvqfpjvrkcfjvzcfycxvJsapvsfp
c.ckvoccbvjscvtfjcvmtvcbckrgvabvpcylkajg;vajvjfncpvjmvfkjvfbhvjm
ckmjayap ,vfbhvjscbvym cvqfbrlmkvfbhvhcyfgx

“C.cbvjsapvfkjapjayva zcjlpvumlqhvfjvqfpjvhacvfufg—sfhvfq mpjvhachvab
jscvJa cvAvpfuxvJmvfhmkbvjsc pcq.cpvuajsvtqmuckp,vjmvhfbyc,vjmvpabrvab
jscvplbqarsj:vpmv lysvufpvqctjvmtvjscvfkjapjayvpzakaj,vfbhvbmv mkcx
C.cbvjsfjvumlqhvtfhcvabvjscvcbhvabjmvfvymbjcbjchvabfyja.ajgxvUcvfkc
nczjvnccbvmbvjscvrkabhpjmbcvmtvzfabvfbhvbcycppajg,vfbhvajvpcc chvjmv c
jsfjvsckcvufpvjsfjvsfjctlqvrkabhpjmbcvokmncbvfjvqfpj!

“FpvAvpjmmhvjsckcvabvjscvrfjsckabrvhfknvAvjsmlrsjvjsfjvabvjsapvpa zqc
cezqfbfjambvAvsfhv fpjckchvjscvzkmoqc vmtvjscvumkqh— fpjckchvjscvusmqc
pcykcjvmtvjscpcvhcqayamlpvzcmzqcxvZmppaoqgvjscvyscynpvjscgvsfhvhc.apch
tmkvjscvabykcfpcvmtvzmzlqfjambvsfhvplyycchchvjmmvucqq,vfbhvjscak
bl ockpvsfhvkfjsckvha abapschvjsfbvnczjvpjfjambfkgxvJsfjvumlqhvfyymlbj
tmkvjscvfofbhmbchvklabpxv.ckgvpa zqcvufpv gvcezqfbfjamb,vfbhvzqflpaoqc
cbmlrs—fpv mpjvukmbrvjscmkacpvfkc!



v.AA


vFvPlhhcbvPsmyn

“FpvAvpjmmhvjsckcv lpabrvm.ckvjsapvjmmvzcktcyjvjkal zsvmtv fb,vjscvtlqq
 mmb,vgcqqmuvfbhvraoomlp,vyf cvlzvmljvmtvfbvm.cktqmuvmtvpaq.ckvqarsjvab
jscvbmkjs-cfpjxvJscvokarsjvqajjqcvtarlkcpvycfpchvjmv m.cvfomljvocqmu,vf
bmapcqcppvmuqvtqajjchvog,vfbhvAvpsa.ckchvuajsvjscvysaqqvmtvjscvbarsjxvA
hcjck abchvjmvhcpycbhvfbhvtabhvusckcvAvymlqhvpqcczx

“AvqmmnchvtmkvjscvolaqhabrvAvnbcuxvJscbv gvcgcvjkf.cqqchvfqmbrvjmvjsc
tarlkcvmtvjscvUsajcvPzsabevlzmbvjscvzchcpjfqvmtvokmbwc,vrkmuabr
hapjabyjvfpvjscvqarsjvmtvjscvkapabrv mmbvrkcuvokarsjckxvAvymlqhvpccvjsc
paq.ckvoakysvfrfabpjvajxvJsckcvufpvjscvjfbrqcvmtvksmhmhcbhkmbvolpscp,
oqfynvabvjscvzfqcvqarsj,vfbhvjsckcvufpvjscvqajjqcvqfubxvAvqmmnchvfjvjsc
qfubvfrfabxvFvdlcckvhmlojvysaqqchv gvym zqfycbygxv‘Bm,’vpfahvAvpjmljqg
jmv gpcqt,v‘jsfjvufpvbmjvjscvqfubx’

“Oljvajv_ufp_vjscvqfubxvTmkvjscvusajcvqczkmlpvtfycvmtvjscvpzsabevufp
jmufkhpvajxvYfbvgmlva frabcvusfjvAvtcqjvfpvjsapvymb.ayjambvyf cvsm cvjm
 c?vOljvgmlvyfbbmjxvJscvJa cv fysabcvufpvrmbc!

“Fjvmbyc,vqancvfvqfpsvfykmppvjscvtfyc,vyf cvjscvzmppaoaqajgvmtvqmpabr
 gvmubvfrc,vmtvocabrvqctjvscqzqcppvabvjsapvpjkfbrcvbcuvumkqhxvJscvofkc
jsmlrsjvmtvajvufpvfbvfyjlfqvzsgpayfqvpcbpfjambxvAvymlqhvtccqvajvrkazv c
fjvjscvjskmfjvfbhvpjmzv gvokcfjsabrxvAbvfbmjsckv m cbjvAvufpvabvf
zfppambvmtvtcfkvfbhvklbbabrvuajsvrkcfjvqcfzabrvpjkahcpvhmubvjscvpqmzcx
MbycvAvtcqqvscfhqmbrvfbhvyljv gvtfyc;vAvqmpjvbmvja cvabvpjfbysabrvjsc
oqmmh,voljvil zchvlzvfbhvkfbvmb,vuajsvfvufk vjkaynqcvhmubv gvysccnvfbh
ysabxvFqqvjscvja cvAvkfbvAvufpvpfgabrvjmv gpcqt:v‘Jscgvsf.cv m.chvajvf
qajjqc,vzlpschvajvlbhckvjscvolpscpvmljvmtvjscvufgx’vBc.ckjscqcpp,vAvkfb
uajsvfqqv gv arsjxvFqqvjscvja c,vuajsvjscvyckjfabjgvjsfjvpm cja cp
ym cpvuajsvceycppa.cvhkcfh,vAvnbcuvjsfjvplysvfpplkfbycvufpvtmqqg,vnbcu
abpjabyja.cqgvjsfjvjscv fysabcvufpvkc m.chvmljvmtv gvkcfysxv gvokcfjs
yf cvuajsvzfabxvAvplzzmpcvAvym.ckchvjscvusmqcvhapjfbycvtkm vjscvsaqq
ykcpjvjmvjscvqajjqcvqfub,vjumv aqcpvzcksfzp,vabvjcbv abljcpxvFbhvAvf 
bmjvfvgmlbrv fbxvAvylkpchvfqmlh,vfpvAvkfb,vfjv gvymbtahcbjvtmqqgvab
qcf.abrvjscv fysabc,vufpjabrvrmmhvokcfjsvjsckcogxvAvykachvfqmlh,vfbh
bmbcvfbpuckchxvBmjvfvykcfjlkcvpcc chvjmvocvpjakkabrvabvjsfjv mmbqaj
umkqhx

“UscbvAvkcfyschvjscvqfubv gvumkpjvtcfkpvuckcvkcfqapchxvBmjvfvjkfycvmt
jscvjsabrvufpvjmvocvpccbxvAvtcqjvtfabjvfbhvymqhvuscbvAvtfychvjscvc zjg
pzfycvf mbrvjscvoqfynvjfbrqcvmtvolpscpxvAvkfbvkmlbhvajvtlkamlpqg,vfpvat
jscvjsabrv arsjvocvsahhcbvabvfvymkbck,vfbhvjscbvpjmzzchvfoklzjqg,vuajs
 gvsfbhpvyqljysabrv gvsfakxvFom.cv cvjmuckchvjscvpzsabe,vlzmbvjsc
okmbwcvzchcpjfq,vusajc,vpsababr,vqczkmlp,vabvjscvqarsjvmtvjscvkapabr
 mmbxvAjvpcc chvjmvp aqcvabv mynckgvmtv gvhap fgx

“Av arsjvsf.cvymbpmqchv gpcqtvogva frababrvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvsfhvzlj
jscv cysfbap vabvpm cvpscqjckvtmkv c,vsfhvAvbmjvtcqjvfpplkchvmtvjscak
zsgpayfqvfbhvabjcqqcyjlfqvabfhcdlfygxvJsfjvapvusfjvhap fgchv c:vjsc
pcbpcvmtvpm cvsajsckjmvlbplpzcyjchvzmuck,vjskmlrsvusmpcvabjck.cbjambv g
ab.cbjambvsfhv.fbapschxvGcj,vtmkvmbcvjsabrvAvtcqjvfpplkch:vlbqcppvpm c
mjsckvfrcvsfhvzkmhlychvajpvcefyjvhlzqayfjc,vjscv fysabcvymlqhvbmjvsf.c
 m.chvabvja cxvJscvfjjfys cbjvmtvjscvqc.ckp—Avuaqqvpsmuvgmlvjscv cjsmh
qfjck—zkc.cbjchvfbgmbcvtkm vjf zckabrvuajsvajvabvjsfjvufgvuscbvjscg
uckcvkc m.chxvAjvsfhv m.ch,vfbhvufpvsah,vmbqgvabvpzfycxvOljvjscb,vusckc
ymlqhvajvoc?

“AvjsabnvAv lpjvsf.cvsfhvfvnabhvmtvtkcbwgxvAvkc c ockvklbbabrv.amqcbjqg
abvfbhvmljvf mbrvjscv mmbqajvolpscpvfqqvkmlbhvjscvpzsabe,vfbhvpjfkjqabr
pm cvusajcvfba fqvjsfj,vabvjscvha vqarsj,vAvjmmnvtmkvfvp fqqvhcckxvA
kc c ock,vjmm,vqfjcvjsfjvbarsj,vocfjabrvjscvolpscpvuajsv gvyqcbysch
tapjvlbjaqv gvnblynqcpvuckcvrfpschvfbhvoqcchabrvtkm vjscvokmncbvjuarpx
Jscb,vpmooabrvfbhvkf.abrvabv gvfbrlapsvmtv abh,vAvucbjvhmubvjmvjsc
rkcfjvolaqhabrvmtvpjmbcxvJscvoarvsfqqvufpvhfkn,vpaqcbj,vfbhvhcpckjchxvA
pqazzchvmbvjscvlbc.cbvtqmmk,vfbhvtcqqvm.ckvmbcvmtvjscv fqfysajcvjfoqcp,
fq mpjvokcfnabrv gvpsabxvAvqajvfv fjysvfbhvucbjvmbvzfpjvjscvhlpjg
ylkjfabp,vmtvusaysvAvsf.cvjmqhvgmlx

“JsckcvAvtmlbhvfvpcymbhvrkcfjvsfqqvym.ckchvuajsvylpsambp,vlzmbvusays,
zcksfzp,vfvpymkcvmkvpmvmtvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvuckcvpqcczabrxvAvsf.cvbm
hmlojvjscgvtmlbhv gvpcymbhvfzzcfkfbycvpjkfbrcvcbmlrs,vym abrvplhhcbqg
mljvmtvjscvdlacjvhfknbcppvuajsvabfkjaylqfjcvbmapcpvfbhvjscvpzqljjckvfbh
tqfkcvmtvfv fjysxvTmkvjscgvsfhvtmkrmjjcbvfomljv fjyscpxv‘Usckcvapv g
Ja cv fysabc?’vAvocrfb,vofuqabrvqancvfbvfbrkgvysaqh,vqfgabrvsfbhpvlzmb
jsc vfbhvpsfnabrvjsc vlzvjmrcjsckxvAjv lpjvsf.cvoccbv.ckgvdlcckvjm
jsc xvPm cvqflrsch,v mpjvmtvjsc vqmmnchvpmkcqgvtkarsjcbchxvUscbvAvpfu
jsc vpjfbhabrvkmlbhv c,vajvyf cvabjmv gvscfhvjsfjvAvufpvhmabrvfp
tmmqapsvfvjsabrvfpvajvufpvzmppaoqcvtmkv cvjmvhmvlbhckvjsc
yakyl pjfbycp,vabvjkgabrvjmvkc.a.cvjscvpcbpfjambvmtvtcfkxvTmk,
kcfpmbabrvtkm vjscakvhfgqarsjvocsf.amlk,vAvjsmlrsjvjsfjvtcfkv lpjvoc
tmkrmjjcbx

“Foklzjqg,vAvhfpschvhmubvjscv fjys,vfbhvnbmynabrvmbcvmtvjscvzcmzqcvm.ck
abv gvymlkpc,vucbjvoqlbhckabrvfykmppvjscvoarvhababr-sfqqvfrfab,vmlj
lbhckvjscv mmbqarsjxvAvscfkhvykacpvmtvjckkmkvfbhvjscakvqajjqcvtccj
klbbabrvfbhvpjl oqabrvjsapvufgvfbhvjsfjxvAvhmvbmjvkc c ockvfqqvAvhahvfp
jscv mmbvykczjvlzvjscvpngxvAvplzzmpcvajvufpvjscvlbcezcyjchvbfjlkcvmtv g
qmppvjsfjv fhhcbchv cxvAvtcqjvsmzcqcppqgvyljvmttvtkm v gvmubvnabh—f
pjkfbrcvfba fqvabvfbvlbnbmubvumkqhxvAv lpjvsf.cvkf.chvjmvfbhvtkm,
pykcf abrvfbhvykgabrvlzmbvRmhvfbhvTfjcxvAvsf.cvfv c mkgvmtvsmkkaoqc
tfjarlc,vfpvjscvqmbrvbarsjvmtvhcpzfakvumkcvfufg;vmtvqmmnabrvabvjsap
a zmppaoqcvzqfycvfbhvjsfj;vmtvrkmzabrvf mbrv mmbqajvklabpvfbhvjmlysabr
pjkfbrcvykcfjlkcpvabvjscvoqfynvpsfhmup;vfjvqfpj,vmtvqgabrvmbvjscvrkmlbh
bcfkvjscvpzsabevfbhvucczabrvuajsvfopmqljcvukcjyschbcpp,vc.cbvfbrckvfj
jscvtmqqgvmtvqcf.abrvjscv fysabcvsf.abrvqcfnchvfufgvuajsv gvpjkcbrjsxvA
sfhvbmjsabrvqctjvoljv apckgxvJscbvAvpqczj,vfbhvuscbvAvumncvfrfabvajvufp
tlqqvhfg,vfbhvfvymlzqcvmtvpzfkkmupvuckcvsmzzabrvkmlbhv cvmbvjscvjlkt
uajsabvkcfysvmtv gvfk x

“Avpfjvlzvabvjscvtkcpsbcppvmtvjscv mkbabr,vjkgabrvjmvkc c ockvsmuvAvsfh
rmjvjsckc,vfbhvusgvAvsfhvplysvfvzkmtmlbhvpcbpcvmtvhcpckjambvfbh
hcpzfakxvJscbvjsabrpvyf cvyqcfkvabv gv abhxvUajsvjscvzqfab,vkcfpmbfoqc
hfgqarsj,vAvymlqhvqmmnv gvyakyl pjfbycpvtfakqgvabvjscvtfycxvAvpfuvjsc
uaqhvtmqqgvmtv gvtkcbwgvm.ckbarsj,vfbhvAvymlqhvkcfpmbvuajsv gpcqtx
‘Plzzmpcvjscvumkpj?’vAvpfahxv‘Plzzmpcvjscv fysabcvfqjmrcjsck
qmpj—zcksfzpvhcpjkmgch?vAjvocsm.cpv cvjmvocvyfq vfbhvzfjacbj,vjmvqcfkb
jscvufgvmtvjscvzcmzqc,vjmvrcjvfvyqcfkvahcfvmtvjscv cjsmhvmtv gvqmpp,
fbhvjscv cfbpvmtvrcjjabrv fjckafqpvfbhvjmmqp;vpmvjsfjvabvjscvcbh,
zcksfzp,vAv fgv fncvfbmjsckx’vJsfjvumlqhvocv gvmbqgvsmzc,vfvzmmkvsmzc,
zcksfzp,voljvocjjckvjsfbvhcpzfakxvFbh,vftjckvfqq,vajvufpvfvocfljatlq
fbhvylkamlpvumkqhx

“Oljvzkmofoqgvjscv fysabcvsfhvmbqgvoccbvjfncbvfufgxvPjaqq,vAv lpjvoc
yfq vfbhvzfjacbj,vtabhvajpvsahabr-zqfyc,vfbhvkcym.ckvajvogvtmkycvmk
ylbbabrxvFbhvuajsvjsfjvAvpykf oqchvjmv gvtccjvfbhvqmmnchvfomljv c,
umbhckabrvusckcvAvymlqhvofjscxvAvtcqjvucfkg,vpjatt,vfbhvjkf.cq-pmaqchx
Jscvtkcpsbcppvmtvjscv mkbabrv fhcv cvhcpakcvfbvcdlfqvtkcpsbcppxvAvsfh
cesflpjchv gvc mjambxvAbhcch,vfpvAvucbjvfomljv gvolpabcpp,vAvtmlbh
 gpcqtvumbhckabrvfjv gvabjcbpcvceyajc cbjvm.ckbarsjxvAv fhcvfvyfkctlq
cef abfjambvmtvjscvrkmlbhvfomljvjscvqajjqcvqfubxvAvufpjchvpm cvja cvab
tljaqcvdlcpjambabrp,vymb.cgch,vfpvucqqvfpvAvufpvfoqc,vjmvplysvmtvjsc
qajjqcvzcmzqcvfpvyf cvogxvJscgvfqqvtfaqchvjmvlbhckpjfbhv gvrcpjlkcp;
pm cvuckcvpa zqgvpjmqah,vpm cvjsmlrsjvajvufpvfvicpjvfbhvqflrschvfjv cx
Avsfhvjscvsfkhcpjvjfpnvabvjscvumkqhvjmvncczv gvsfbhpvmttvjscakvzkcjjg
qflrsabrvtfycpxvAjvufpvfvtmmqapsva zlqpc,voljvjscvhc.aqvocrmjjcbvmt
tcfkvfbhvoqabhvfbrckvufpvaqqvylkochvfbhvpjaqqvcfrckvjmvjfncvfh.fbjfrc
mtv gvzckzqceajgxvJscvjlktvrf.cvocjjckvymlbpcqxvAvtmlbhvfvrkmm.cvkazzch
abvaj,vfomljv ahufgvocjuccbvjscvzchcpjfqvmtvjscvpzsabevfbhvjscv fknpvmt
 gvtccjvusckc,vmbvfkka.fq,vAvsfhvpjklrrqchvuajsvjscvm.ckjlkbchv fysabcx
Jsckcvuckcvmjsckvparbpvmtvkc m.fqvfomlj,vuajsvdlcckvbfkkmuvtmmjzkabjp
qancvjsmpcvAvymlqhva frabcv fhcvogvfvpqmjsxvJsapvhakcyjchv gvyqmpck
fjjcbjambvjmvjscvzchcpjfqxvAjvufp,vfpvAvjsabnvAvsf.cvpfah,vmtvokmbwcx
Ajvufpvbmjvfv ckcvoqmyn,voljvsarsqgvhcymkfjchvuajsvhcczvtkf chvzfbcqp
mbvcajsckvpahcxvAvucbjvfbhvkfzzchvfjvjscpcxvJscvzchcpjfqvufpvsmqqmux
Cef ababrvjscvzfbcqpvuajsvyfkcvAvtmlbhvjsc vhapymbjablmlpvuajsvjsc
tkf cpxvJsckcvuckcvbmvsfbhqcpvmkvncgsmqcp,voljvzmppaoqgvjscvzfbcqp,vat
jscgvuckcvhmmkp,vfpvAvplzzmpch,vmzcbchvtkm vuajsabxvMbcvjsabrvufpvyqcfk
cbmlrsvjmv gv abhxvAjvjmmnvbmv.ckgvrkcfjv cbjfqvcttmkjvjmvabtckvjsfjv g
Ja cv fysabcvufpvabpahcvjsfjvzchcpjfqxvOljvsmuvajvrmjvjsckcvufpvf
hattckcbjvzkmoqc x

“Avpfuvjscvscfhpvmtvjumvmkfbrc-yqfhvzcmzqcvym abrvjskmlrsvjscvolpscp
fbhvlbhckvpm cvoqmppm -ym.ckchvfzzqc-jkccpvjmufkhpv cxvAvjlkbchvp aqabr
jmvjsc ,vfbhvocynmbchvjsc vjmv cxvJscgvyf c,vfbhvjscb,vzmabjabrvjmvjsc
okmbwcvzchcpjfq,vAvjkachvjmvabja fjcv gvuapsvjmvmzcbvajxvOljvfjv g
takpjvrcpjlkcvjmufkhpvjsapvjscgvocsf.chv.ckgvmhhqgxvAvhmb’jvnbmuvsmuvjm
ymb.cgvjscakvcezkcppambvjmvgmlxvPlzzmpcvgmlvuckcvjmvlpcvfvrkmppqg
a zkmzckvrcpjlkcvjmvfvhcqayfjc- abhchvum fb—ajvapvsmuvpscvumlqhvqmmnx
Jscgvucbjvmttvfpvatvjscgvsfhvkcyca.chvjscvqfpjvzmppaoqcvabplqjxvAvjkach
fvpuccj-qmmnabrvqajjqcvysfzvabvusajcvbcej,vuajsvcefyjqgvjscvpf c
kcplqjxvPm csmu,vsapv fbbckv fhcv cvtccqvfpsf chvmtv gpcqtxvOlj,vfpvgml
nbmu,vAvufbjchvjscvJa cv fysabc,vfbhvAvjkachvsa vmbycv mkcxvFpvsc
jlkbchvmtt,vqancvjscvmjsckp,v gvjc zckvrmjvjscvocjjckvmtv cxvAbvjskcc
pjkahcpvAvufpvftjckvsa ,vsfhvsa vogvjscvqmmpcvzfkjvmtvsapvkmocvkmlbh
jscvbcyn,vfbhvocrfbvhkfrrabrvsa vjmufkhpvjscvpzsabexvJscbvAvpfuvjsc
smkkmkvfbhvkczlrbfbycvmtvsapvtfyc,vfbhvfqqvmtvfvplhhcbvAvqcjvsa vrmx

“OljvAvufpvbmjvocfjcbvgcjxvAvofbrchvuajsv gvtapjvfjvjscvokmbwcvzfbcqpx
AvjsmlrsjvAvscfkhvpm cjsabrvpjakvabpahc—jmvocvcezqayaj,vAvjsmlrsjvA
scfkhvfvpmlbhvqancvfvyslynqc—oljvAv lpjvsf.cvoccbv apjfncbxvJscbvAvrmj
fvoarvzcooqcvtkm vjscvka.ck,vfbhvyf cvfbhvsf  ckchvjaqqvAvsfhvtqfjjcbch
fvymaqvabvjscvhcymkfjambp,vfbhvjscv.ckharkapvyf cvmttvabvzmuhckg
tqfncpxvJscvhcqayfjcvqajjqcvzcmzqcv lpjvsf.cvscfkhv cvsf  ckabrvab
rlpjgvmljokcfnpvfv aqcvfufgvmbvcajsckvsfbh,voljvbmjsabrvyf cvmtvajxvA
pfuvfvykmuhvmtvjsc vlzmbvjscvpqmzcp,vqmmnabrvtlkja.cqgvfjv cxvFjvqfpj,
smjvfbhvjakch,vAvpfjvhmubvjmvufjysvjscvzqfycxvOljvAvufpvjmmvkcpjqcppvjm
ufjysvqmbr;vAvf vjmmvMyyahcbjfqvtmkvfvqmbrv.araqxvAvymlqhvumknvfjvf
zkmoqc vtmkvgcfkp,voljvjmvufajvabfyja.cvtmkvjucbjg-tmlkvsmlkp—jsfjvap
fbmjsckv fjjckx

“Avrmjvlzvftjckvfvja c,vfbhvocrfbvufqnabrvfa qcppqgvjskmlrsvjscvolpscp
jmufkhpvjscvsaqqvfrfabxv‘Zfjacbyc,’vpfahvAvjmv gpcqtxv‘Atvgmlvufbjvgmlk
 fysabcvfrfabvgmlv lpjvqcf.cvjsfjvpzsabevfqmbcxvAtvjscgv cfbvjmvjfnc
gmlkv fysabcvfufg,vaj’pvqajjqcvrmmhvgmlkvukcynabrvjscakvokmbwcvzfbcqp,
fbhvatvjscgvhmb’j,vgmlvuaqqvrcjvajvofynvfpvpmmbvfpvgmlvyfbvfpnvtmkvajx
Jmvpajvf mbrvfqqvjsmpcvlbnbmubvjsabrpvoctmkcvfvzlwwqcvqancvjsfjvap
smzcqcppxvJsfjvufgvqacpv mbm fbafxvTfycvjsapvumkqhxvQcfkbvajpvufgp,
ufjysvaj,vocvyfkctlqvmtvjmmvsfpjgvrlcppcpvfjvajpv cfbabrxvAbvjscvcbh
gmlvuaqqvtabhvyqlcpvjmvajvfqqx’vJscbvplhhcbqgvjscvsl mlkvmtvjsc
pajlfjambvyf cvabjmv gv abh:vjscvjsmlrsjvmtvjscvgcfkpvAvsfhvpzcbjvab
pjlhgvfbhvjmaqvjmvrcjvabjmvjscvtljlkcvfrc,vfbhvbmuv gvzfppambvmt
fbeacjgvjmvrcjvmljvmtvajxvAvsfhv fhcv gpcqtvjscv mpjvym zqayfjchvfbh
jscv mpjvsmzcqcppvjkfzvjsfjvc.ckvfv fbvhc.apchxvFqjsmlrsvajvufpvfjv g
mubvcezcbpc,vAvymlqhvbmjvscqzv gpcqtxvAvqflrschvfqmlhx

“Rmabrvjskmlrsvjscvoarvzfqfyc,vajvpcc chvjmv cvjsfjvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqc
f.mahchv cxvAjv fgvsf.cvoccbv gvtfbyg,vmkvajv fgvsf.cvsfhvpm cjsabrvjm
hmvuajsv gvsf  ckabrvfjvjscvrfjcpvmtvokmbwcxvGcjvAvtcqjvjmqckfoqgvplkc
mtvjscvf.mahfbycxvAvufpvyfkctlq,vsmuc.ck,vjmvpsmuvbmvymbyckbvfbhvjm
fopjfabvtkm vfbgvzlkplajvmtvjsc ,vfbhvabvjscvymlkpcvmtvfvhfgvmkvjum
jsabrpvrmjvofynvjmvjscvmqhvtmmjabrxvAv fhcvusfjvzkmrkcppvAvymlqhvabvjsc
qfbrlfrc,vfbhvabvfhhajambvAvzlpschv gvcezqmkfjambpvsckcvfbhvjsckcx
CajsckvAv appchvpm cvplojqcvzmabjvmkvjscakvqfbrlfrcvufpvceycppa.cqg
pa zqc—fq mpjvceyqlpa.cqgvym zmpchvmtvymbykcjcvplopjfbja.cpvfbhv.ckopx
Jsckcvpcc chvjmvocvtcu,vatvfbg,vfopjkfyjvjck p,vmkvqajjqcvlpcvmt
tarlkfja.cvqfbrlfrcxvJscakvpcbjcbycpvuckcvlplfqqgvpa zqcvfbhvmtvjum
umkhp,vfbhvAvtfaqchvjmvymb.cgvmkvlbhckpjfbhvfbgvoljvjscvpa zqcpj
zkmzmpajambpxvAvhcjck abchvjmvzljvjscvjsmlrsjvmtv gvJa cv fysabcvfbh
jscv gpjckgvmtvjscvokmbwcvhmmkpvlbhckvjscvpzsabe,vfpv lysvfpvzmppaoqc
abvfvymkbckvmtv c mkg,vlbjaqv gvrkmuabrvnbmuqchrcvumlqhvqcfhv cvofynvjm
jsc vabvfvbfjlkfqvufgxvGcjvfvyckjfabvtccqabr,vgmlv fgvlbhckpjfbh,
jcjsckchv cvabvfvyakyqcvmtvfvtcuv aqcpvkmlbhvjscvzmabjvmtv gvfkka.fqx



v.AAA


vCezqfbfjamb

“PmvtfkvfpvAvymlqhvpcc,vfqqvjscvumkqhvhapzqfgchvjscvpf cvcelockfbj
kaysbcppvfpvjscvJsf cpv.fqqcgxvTkm vc.ckgvsaqqvAvyqa ochvAvpfuvjscvpf c
folbhfbycvmtvpzqcbhahvolaqhabrp,vcbhqcppqgv.fkachvabv fjckafqvfbh
pjgqc,vjscvpf cvyqlpjckabrvjsayncjpvmtvc.ckrkccbp,vjscvpf c
oqmppm -qfhcbvjkccpvfbhvjkccvtckbpxvSckcvfbhvjsckcvufjckvpsmbcvqanc
paq.ck,vfbhvocgmbh,vjscvqfbhvkmpcvabjmvoqlcvlbhlqfjabrvsaqqp,vfbhvpm
tfhchvabjmvjscvpckcbajgvmtvjscvpngxvFvzcylqafkvtcfjlkc,vusaysvzkcpcbjqg
fjjkfyjchv gvfjjcbjamb,vufpvjscvzkcpcbycvmtvyckjfabvyakylqfkvucqqp,
pc.ckfq,vfpvajvpcc chvjmv c,vmtvfv.ckgvrkcfjvhczjsxvMbcvqfgvogvjscvzfjs
lzvjscvsaqqvusaysvAvsfhvtmqqmuchvhlkabrv gvtakpjvufqnxvQancvjscvmjsckp,
ajvufpvka  chvuajsvokmbwc,vylkamlpqgvukmlrsj,vfbhvzkmjcyjchvogvfvqajjqc
ylzmqfvtkm vjscvkfabxvPajjabrvogvjscvpahcvmtvjscpcvucqqp,vfbhvzcckabr
hmubvabjmvjscvpsftjchvhfknbcpp,vAvymlqhvpccvbmvrqcf vmtvufjck,vbmk
ymlqhvAvpjfkjvfbgvkctqcyjambvuajsvfvqarsjchv fjysxvOljvabvfqqvmtvjsc vA
scfkhvfvyckjfabvpmlbh:vfvjslh—jslh—jslh,vqancvjscvocfjabrvmtvpm cvoar
cbrabc;vfbhvAvhapym.ckch,vtkm vjscvtqfkabrvmtv gv fjyscp,vjsfjvfvpjcfhg
ylkkcbjvmtvfakvpcjvhmubvjscvpsftjpxvTlkjsck,vAvjskcuvfvpykfzvmtvzfzck
abjmvjscvjskmfjvmtvmbc,vfbh,vabpjcfhvmtvtqljjckabrvpqmuqgvhmub,vajvufp
fjvmbycvplynchvpuatjqgvmljvmtvparsjx

“Ftjckvfvja c,vjmm,vAvyf cvjmvymbbcyjvjscpcvucqqpvuajsvjfqqvjmuckp
pjfbhabrvsckcvfbhvjsckcvlzmbvjscvpqmzcp;vtmkvfom.cvjsc vjsckcvufpvmtjcb
ilpjvplysvfvtqaynckvabvjscvfakvfpvmbcvpccpvmbvfvsmjvhfgvfom.cvf
plb-pymkyschvocfysxvZljjabrvjsabrpvjmrcjsck,vAvkcfyschvfvpjkmbr
plrrcpjambvmtvfbvcejcbpa.cvpgpjc vmtvplojckkfbcfbv.cbjaqfjamb,vusmpc
jklcva zmkjvajvufpvhattaylqjvjmva frabcxvAvufpvfjvtakpjvabyqabchvjm
fppmyafjcvajvuajsvjscvpfbajfkgvfzzfkfjlpvmtvjscpcvzcmzqcxvAjvufpvfb
mo.amlpvymbyqlpamb,voljvajvufpvfopmqljcqgvukmbrx

“FbhvsckcvAv lpjvfh ajvjsfjvAvqcfkbjv.ckgvqajjqcvmtvhkfabpvfbhvocqqp
fbhv mhcpvmtvymb.cgfbyc,vfbhvjscvqancvymb.cbacbycp,vhlkabrv gvja cvab
jsapvkcfqvtljlkcxvAbvpm cvmtvjscpcv.apambpvmtvLjmzafpvfbhvym abrvja cp
usaysvAvsf.cvkcfh,vjsckcvapvfv.fpjvf mlbjvmtvhcjfaqvfomljvolaqhabr,vfbh
pmyafqvfkkfbrc cbjp,vfbhvpmvtmkjsxvOljvusaqcvplysvhcjfaqpvfkcvcfpg
cbmlrsvjmvmojfabvuscbvjscvusmqcvumkqhvapvymbjfabchvabvmbc’p
a frabfjamb,vjscgvfkcvfqjmrcjsckvabfyycppaoqcvjmvfvkcfqvjkf.cqqckvf ah
plysvkcfqajacpvfpvAvtmlbhvsckcxvYmbyca.cvjscvjfqcvmtvQmbhmbvusaysvf
bcrkm,vtkcpsvtkm vYcbjkfqvFtkayf,vumlqhvjfncvofynvjmvsapvjkaoc!vUsfj
umlqhvscvnbmuvmtvkfaqufgvym zfbacp,vmtvpmyafqv m.c cbjp,vmtvjcqczsmbc
fbhvjcqcrkfzsvuakcp,vmtvjscvZfkycqpvHcqa.ckgvYm zfbg,vfbhvzmpjfqvmkhckp
fbhvjscvqanc?vGcjvuc,vfjvqcfpj,vpsmlqhvocvuaqqabrvcbmlrsvjmvcezqfab
jscpcvjsabrpvjmvsa !vFbhvc.cbvmtvusfjvscvnbcu,vsmuv lysvymlqhvscv fnc
sapvlbjkf.cqqchvtkacbhvcajsckvfzzkcscbhvmkvocqac.c?vJscb,vjsabnvsmu
bfkkmuvjscvrfzvocjuccbvfvbcrkmvfbhvfvusajcv fbvmtvmlkvmubvja cp,vfbh
smuvuahcvjscvabjck.fqvocjuccbv gpcqtvfbhvjscpcvmtvjscvRmqhcbvFrc!vAvufp
pcbpaoqcvmtv lysvusaysvufpvlbpccb,vfbhvusaysvymbjkaoljchvjmv gvym tmkj;
oljvpf.cvtmkvfvrcbckfqva zkcppambvmtvfljm fjayvmkrfbapfjamb,vAvtcfkvA
yfbvymb.cgv.ckgvqajjqcvmtvjscvhattckcbycvjmvgmlkv abhx

“Abvjscv fjjckvmtvpczlqjlkc,vtmkvabpjfbyc,vAvymlqhvpccvbmvparbpvmt
ykc fjmkafvbmkvfbgjsabrvplrrcpja.cvmtvjm opxvOljvajvmyylkkchvjmv c
jsfj,vzmppaoqg,vjsckcv arsjvocvyc cjckacpv(mkvykc fjmkaf)vpm cusckc
ocgmbhvjscvkfbrcvmtv gvcezqmkabrpxvJsap,vfrfab,vufpvfvdlcpjambvA
hcqaockfjcqgvzljvjmv gpcqt,vfbhv gvylkampajgvufpvfjvtakpjvcbjakcqg
hctcfjchvlzmbvjscvzmabjxvJscvjsabrvzlwwqchv c,vfbhvAvufpvqchvjmv fncvf
tlkjsckvkc fkn,vusaysvzlwwqchv cvpjaqqv mkc:vjsfjvfrchvfbhvabtak vf mbr
jsapvzcmzqcvjsckcvuckcvbmbcx

“Av lpjvymbtcppvjsfjv gvpfjaptfyjambvuajsv gvtakpjvjscmkacpvmtvfb
fljm fjayvya.aqapfjambvfbhvfvhcyfhcbjvsl fbajgvhahvbmjvqmbrvcbhlkcxvGcj
AvymlqhvjsabnvmtvbmvmjsckxvQcjv cvzljv gvhattaylqjacpxvJscvpc.ckfqvoar
zfqfycpvAvsfhvcezqmkchvuckcv ckcvqa.abrvzqfycp,vrkcfjvhababr-sfqqpvfbh
pqcczabrvfzfkj cbjpxvAvymlqhvtabhvbmv fysabckg,vbmvfzzqafbycpvmtvfbg
nabhxvGcjvjscpcvzcmzqcvuckcvyqmjschvabvzqcfpfbjvtfokaypvjsfjv lpjvfj
ja cpvbcchvkcbcufq,vfbhvjscakvpfbhfqp,vjsmlrsvlbhcymkfjch,vuckcvtfakqg
ym zqcevpzcya cbpvmtv cjfqumknxvPm csmuvplysvjsabrpv lpjvocv fhcxvFbh
jscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvhapzqfgchvbmv.cpjarcvmtvfvykcfja.cvjcbhcbygxvJsckc
uckcvbmvpsmzp,vbmvumknpsmzp,vbmvparbvmtva zmkjfjambpvf mbrvjsc xvJscg
pzcbjvfqqvjscakvja cvabvzqfgabrvrcbjqg,vabvofjsabrvabvjscvka.ck,vab
 fnabrvqm.cvabvfvsfqt-zqfgtlqvtfpsamb,vabvcfjabrvtklajvfbhvpqcczabrxvA
ymlqhvbmjvpccvsmuvjsabrpvuckcvnczjvrmabrx

“Jscb,vfrfab,vfomljvjscvJa cv fysabc:vpm cjsabr,vAvnbcuvbmjvusfj,vsfh
jfncbvajvabjmvjscvsmqqmuvzchcpjfqvmtvjscvUsajcvPzsabexv_Usg?_vTmkvjsc
qatcvmtv cvAvymlqhvbmjva frabcxvJsmpcvufjckqcppvucqqp,vjmm,vjsmpc
tqaynckabrvzaqqfkpxvAvtcqjvAvqfynchvfvyqlcxvAvtcqj—smuvpsfqqvAvzljvaj?
Plzzmpcvgmlvtmlbhvfbvabpykazjamb,vuajsvpcbjcbycpvsckcvfbhvjsckcvab
ceycqqcbjvzqfabvCbrqaps,vfbhvabjckzmqfjchvjsckcuajs,vmjsckpv fhcvlzvmt
umkhp,vmtvqcjjckpvc.cb,vfopmqljcqgvlbnbmubvjmvgml?vUcqq,vmbvjscvjsakh
hfgvmtv gv.apaj,vjsfjvufpvsmuvjscvumkqhvmtvCarsjvSlbhkchvfbhvJum
JsmlpfbhvPc.cbvSlbhkchvfbhvMbcvzkcpcbjchvajpcqtvjmv c!

“Jsfjvhfg,vjmm,vAv fhcvfvtkacbh—mtvfvpmkjxvAjvsfzzcbchvjsfj,vfpvAvufp
ufjysabrvpm cvmtvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvofjsabrvabvfvpsfqqmu,vmbcvmtvjsc 
ufpvpcawchvuajsvykf zvfbhvocrfbvhkatjabrvhmubpjkcf xvJscv fabvylkkcbj
kfbvkfjsckvpuatjqg,voljvbmjvjmmvpjkmbrqgvtmkvc.cbvfv mhckfjcvpua  ckx
Ajvuaqqvra.cvgmlvfbvahcf,vjsckctmkc,vmtvjscvpjkfbrcvhctayacbygvabvjscpc
ykcfjlkcp,vuscbvAvjcqqvgmlvjsfjvbmbcv fhcvjscvpqarsjcpjvfjjc zjvjm
kcpylcvjscvucfnqgvykgabrvqajjqcvjsabrvusaysvufpvhkmubabrvoctmkcvjscak
cgcpxvUscbvAvkcfqapchvjsap,vAvslkkachqgvpqazzchvmttv gvyqmjscp,vfbh,
ufhabrvabvfjvfvzmabjvqmuckvhmub,vAvyflrsjvjscvzmmkv ajcvfbhvhkcuvsck
pftcvjmvqfbhxvFvqajjqcvklooabrvmtvjscvqa opvpmmbvokmlrsjvsckvkmlbh,vfbh
AvsfhvjscvpfjaptfyjambvmtvpccabrvpscvufpvfqqvkarsjvoctmkcvAvqctjvsckxvA
sfhvrmjvjmvplysvfvqmuvcpja fjcvmtvsckvnabhvjsfjvAvhahvbmjvcezcyjvfbg
rkfjajlhcvtkm vsckxvAbvjsfj,vsmuc.ck,vAvufpvukmbrx

“Jsapvsfzzcbchvabvjscv mkbabrxvAbvjscvftjckbmmbvAv cjv gvqajjqcvum fb,
fpvAvocqac.cvajvufp,vfpvAvufpvkcjlkbabrvjmufkhpv gvycbjkcvtkm vfb
cezqmkfjamb,vfbhvpscvkcyca.chv cvuajsvykacpvmtvhcqarsjvfbhvzkcpcbjchv c
uajsvfvoarvrfkqfbhvmtvtqmuckp—c.ahcbjqgv fhcvtmkv cvfbhv cvfqmbcxvJsc
jsabrvjmmnv gva frabfjambxv.ckgvzmppaoqgvAvsfhvoccbvtccqabrvhcpmqfjcx
FjvfbgvkfjcvAvhahv gvocpjvjmvhapzqfgv gvfzzkcyafjambvmtvjscvratjxvUc
uckcvpmmbvpcfjchvjmrcjsckvabvfvqajjqcvpjmbcvfkomlk,vcbrfrchvab
ymb.ckpfjamb,vysactqgvmtvp aqcpxvJscvykcfjlkc’pvtkacbhqabcppvfttcyjch
 cvcefyjqgvfpvfvysaqh’pv arsjvsf.cvhmbcxvUcvzfppchvcfysvmjsckvtqmuckp,
fbhvpscvnappchv gvsfbhpxvAvhahvjscvpf cvjmvsckpxvJscbvAvjkachvjfqn,vfbh
tmlbhvjsfjvsckvbf cvufpvUccbf,vusays,vjsmlrsvAvhmb’jvnbmuvusfjvaj
 cfbj,vpm csmuvpcc chvfzzkmzkafjcvcbmlrsxvJsfjvufpvjscvocrabbabrvmtvf
dlcckvtkacbhpsazvusaysvqfpjchvfvuccn,vfbhvcbhch—fpvAvuaqqvjcqqvgml!

“PscvufpvcefyjqgvqancvfvysaqhxvPscvufbjchvjmvocvuajsv cvfqufgpxvPsc
jkachvjmvtmqqmuv cvc.ckgusckc,vfbhvmbv gvbcejvimlkbcgvmljvfbhvfomljvaj
ucbjvjmv gvscfkjvjmvjakcvsckvhmub,vfbhvqcf.cvsckvfjvqfpj,vcesflpjchvfbh
yfqqabrvftjckv cvkfjsckvzqfabja.cqgxvOljvjscvzkmoqc pvmtvjscvumkqhvsfh
jmvocv fpjckchxvAvsfhvbmj,vAvpfahvjmv gpcqt,vym cvabjmvjscvtljlkcvjm
yfkkgvmbvfv abafjlkcvtqakjfjambxvGcjvsckvhapjkcppvuscbvAvqctjvsckvufp
.ckgvrkcfj,vsckvcezmpjlqfjambpvfjvjscvzfkjabrvuckcvpm cja cpvtkfbjay,
fbhvAvjsabn,vfqjmrcjsck,vAvsfhvfpv lysvjkmloqcvfpvym tmkjvtkm vsck
hc.mjambxvBc.ckjscqcppvpscvufp,vpm csmu,vfv.ckgvrkcfjvym tmkjxvA
jsmlrsjvajvufpv ckcvysaqhapsvfttcyjambvjsfjv fhcvsckvyqabrvjmv cxvLbjaq
ajvufpvjmmvqfjc,vAvhahvbmjvyqcfkqgvnbmuvusfjvAvsfhvabtqayjchvlzmbvsck
uscbvAvqctjvsckxvBmkvlbjaqvajvufpvjmmvqfjcvhahvAvyqcfkqgvlbhckpjfbh
usfjvpscvufpvjmv cxvTmk,vogv ckcqgvpcc abrvtmbhvmtv c,vfbhvpsmuabrvab
sckvucfn,vtljaqcvufgvjsfjvpscvyfkchvtmkv c,vjscvqajjqcvhmqqvmtvf
ykcfjlkcvzkcpcbjqgvrf.cv gvkcjlkbvjmvjscvbcarsomlksmmhvmtvjscvUsajc
Pzsabevfq mpjvjscvtccqabrvmtvym abrvsm c;vfbhvAvumlqhvufjysvtmkvsck
jabgvtarlkcvmtvusajcvfbhvrmqhvpmvpmmbvfpvAvyf cvm.ckvjscvsaqqx

“Ajvufpvtkm vsck,vjmm,vjsfjvAvqcfkbjvjsfjvtcfkvsfhvbmjvgcjvqctjvjsc
umkqhxvPscvufpvtcfkqcppvcbmlrsvabvjscvhfgqarsj,vfbhvpscvsfhvjscvmhhcpj
ymbtahcbycvabv c;vtmkvmbyc,vabvfvtmmqapsv m cbj,vAv fhcvjskcfjcbabr
rka fycpvfjvsck,vfbhvpscvpa zqgvqflrschvfjvjsc xvOljvpscvhkcfhchvjsc
hfkn,vhkcfhchvpsfhmup,vhkcfhchvoqfynvjsabrpxvHfknbcppvjmvsckvufpvjsc
mbcvjsabrvhkcfhtlqxvAjvufpvfvpabrlqfkqgvzfppambfjcvc mjamb,vfbhvajvpcj
 cvjsabnabrvfbhvmopck.abrxvAvhapym.ckchvjscb,vf mbrvmjsckvjsabrp,vjsfj
jscpcvqajjqcvzcmzqcvrfjsckchvabjmvjscvrkcfjvsmlpcpvftjckvhfkn,vfbh
pqczjvabvhkm.cpxvJmvcbjckvlzmbvjsc vuajsmljvfvqarsjvufpvjmvzljvjsc 
abjmvfvjl lqjvmtvfzzkcscbpambxvAvbc.ckvtmlbhvmbcvmljvmtvhmmkp,vmkvmbc
pqcczabrvfqmbcvuajsabvhmmkp,vftjckvhfknxvGcjvAvufpvpjaqqvplysvf
oqmynscfhvjsfjvAv appchvjscvqcppmbvmtvjsfjvtcfk,vfbhvabvpzajcvmt
Uccbf’pvhapjkcpp,vAvabpapjchvlzmbvpqcczabrvfufgvtkm vjscpcvpql ockabr
 lqjajlhcpx

“Ajvjkmloqchvsckvrkcfjqg,voljvabvjscvcbhvsckvmhhvfttcyjambvtmkv c
jkal zsch,vfbhvtmkvta.cvmtvjscvbarsjpvmtvmlkvfydlfabjfbyc,vabyqlhabr
jscvqfpjvbarsjvmtvfqq,vpscvpqczjvuajsvsckvscfhvzaqqmuchvmbv gvfk xvOlj
 gvpjmkgvpqazpvfufgvtkm v cvfpvAvpzcfnvmtvsckxvAjv lpjvsf.cvoccbvjsc
barsjvoctmkcvsckvkcpylcvjsfjvAvufpvfufncbchvfomljvhfubxvAvsfhvoccb
kcpjqcpp,vhkcf abrv mpjvhapfrkccfoqgvjsfjvAvufpvhkmubch,vfbhvjsfjvpcf
fbc mbcpvuckcvtccqabrvm.ckv gvtfycvuajsvjscakvpmtjvzfqzpxvAvumncvuajsvf
pjfkj,vfbhvuajsvfbvmhhvtfbygvjsfjvpm cvrkcgapsvfba fqvsfhvilpjvklpsch
mljvmtvjscvysf ockxvAvjkachvjmvrcjvjmvpqcczvfrfab,voljvAvtcqjvkcpjqcpp
fbhvlbym tmkjfoqcxvAjvufpvjsfjvha vrkcgvsmlkvuscbvjsabrpvfkcvilpj
ykcczabrvmljvmtvhfknbcpp,vuscbvc.ckgjsabrvapvymqmlkqcppvfbhvyqcfkvylj,
fbhvgcjvlbkcfqxvAvrmjvlz,vfbhvucbjvhmubvabjmvjscvrkcfjvsfqq,vfbhvpmvmlj
lzmbvjscvtqfrpjmbcpvabvtkmbjvmtvjscvzfqfycxvAvjsmlrsjvAvumlqhv fncvf
.akjlcvmtvbcycppajg,vfbhvpccvjscvplbkapcx

“Jscv mmbvufpvpcjjabr,vfbhvjscvhgabrv mmbqarsjvfbhvjscvtakpjvzfqqmkvmt
hfubvuckcv abrqchvabvfvrsfpjqgvsfqt-qarsjxvJscvolpscpvuckcvabngvoqfyn,
jscvrkmlbhvfvpm okcvrkcg,vjscvpngvymqmlkqcppvfbhvyscckqcppxvFbhvlzvjsc
saqqvAvjsmlrsjvAvymlqhvpccvrsmpjpxvJskccvpc.ckfqvja cp,vfpvAvpyfbbch
jscvpqmzc,vAvpfuvusajcvtarlkcpxvJuaycvAvtfbyachvAvpfuvfvpmqajfkgvusajc,
fzc-qancvykcfjlkcvklbbabrvkfjsckvdlaynqgvlzvjscvsaqq,vfbhvmbycvbcfkvjsc
klabpvAvpfuvfvqcfpsvmtvjsc vyfkkgabrvpm cvhfknvomhgxvJscgv m.ch
sfpjaqgxvAvhahvbmjvpccvusfjvocyf cvmtvjsc xvAjvpcc chvjsfjvjscg
.fbapschvf mbrvjscvolpscpxvJscvhfubvufpvpjaqqvabhapjabyj,vgmlv lpj
lbhckpjfbhxvAvufpvtccqabrvjsfjvysaqq,vlbyckjfab,vcfkqg- mkbabrvtccqabr
gmlv fgvsf.cvnbmubxvAvhmlojchv gvcgcpx

“Fpvjscvcfpjckbvpngvrkcuvokarsjck,vfbhvjscvqarsjvmtvjscvhfgvyf cvmbvfbh
ajpv.a.ahvymqmlkabrvkcjlkbchvlzmbvjscvumkqhvmbycv mkc,vAvpyfbbchvjsc
.acuvnccbqgxvOljvAvpfuvbmv.cpjarcvmtv gvusajcvtarlkcpxvJscgvuckcv ckc
ykcfjlkcpvmtvjscvsfqt-qarsjxv‘Jscgv lpjvsf.cvoccbvrsmpjp,’vAvpfah;v‘A
umbhckvuscbycvjscgvhfjchx’vTmkvfvdlcckvbmjambvmtvRkfbjvFqqcb’pvyf c
abjmv gvscfh,vfbhvf lpchv cxvAtvcfysvrcbckfjambvhacvfbhvqcf.cvrsmpjp,
scvfkrlch,vjscvumkqhvfjvqfpjvuaqqvrcjvm.ckykmuhchvuajsvjsc xvMbvjsfj
jscmkgvjscgvumlqhvsf.cvrkmubvabbl ckfoqcvpm cvCarsjvSlbhkchvJsmlpfbh
Gcfkpvscbyc,vfbhvajvufpvbmvrkcfjvumbhckvjmvpccvtmlkvfjvmbycxvOljvjsc
icpjvufpvlbpfjaptgabr,vfbhvAvufpvjsabnabrvmtvjscpcvtarlkcpvfqqvjsc
 mkbabr,vlbjaqvUccbf’pvkcpylcvhkm.cvjsc vmljvmtv gvscfhxvAvfppmyafjch
jsc vabvpm cvabhctabajcvufgvuajsvjscvusajcvfba fqvAvsfhvpjfkjqchvabv g
takpjvzfppambfjcvpcfkysvtmkvjscvJa cv fysabcxvOljvUccbfvufpvfvzqcfpfbj
plopjajljcxvGcjvfqqvjscvpf c,vjscgvuckcvpmmbvhcpjabchvjmvjfncvtfk
hcfhqackvzmppcppambvmtv gv abhx

“AvjsabnvAvsf.cvpfahvsmuv lysvsmjjckvjsfbvmlkvmubvufpvjscvucfjsckvmt
jsapvRmqhcbvFrcxvAvyfbbmjvfyymlbjvtmkvajxvAjv fgvocvjsfjvjscvplbvufp
smjjck,vmkvjscvcfkjsvbcfkckvjscvplbxvAjvapvlplfqvjmvfppl cvjsfjvjscvplb
uaqqvrmvmbvymmqabrvpjcfhaqgvabvjscvtljlkcxvOljvzcmzqc,vlbtf aqafkvuajs
plysvpzcylqfjambpvfpvjsmpcvmtvjscvgmlbrckvHfkuab,vtmkrcjvjsfjvjsc
zqfbcjpv lpjvlqja fjcqgvtfqqvofynvmbcvogvmbcvabjmvjscvzfkcbjvomhgxvFp
jscpcvyfjfpjkmzscpvmyylk,vjscvplbvuaqqvoqfwcvuajsvkcbcuchvcbckrg;vfbh
ajv fgvocvjsfjvpm cvabbckvzqfbcjvsfhvplttckchvjsapvtfjcxvUsfjc.ckvjsc
kcfpmb,vjscvtfyjvkc fabpvjsfjvjscvplbvufpv.ckgv lysvsmjjckvjsfbvucvnbmu
ajx

“Ucqq,vmbcv.ckgvsmjv mkbabr— gvtmlkjs,vAvjsabn—fpvAvufpvpccnabrvpscqjck
tkm vjscvscfjvfbhvrqfkcvabvfvymqmppfqvklabvbcfkvjscvrkcfjvsmlpcvusckcvA
pqczjvfbhvtch,vjsckcvsfzzcbchvjsapvpjkfbrcvjsabrxvYqf ockabrvf mbr
jscpcvscfzpvmtv fpmbkg,vAvtmlbhvfvbfkkmuvrfqqckg,vusmpcvcbhvfbhvpahc
uabhmupvuckcvoqmynchvogvtfqqcbv fppcpvmtvpjmbcxvOgvymbjkfpjvuajsvjsc
okaqqafbygvmljpahc,vajvpcc chvfjvtakpjva zcbcjkfoqgvhfknvjmv cxvA
cbjckchvajvrkmzabr,vtmkvjscvysfbrcvtkm vqarsjvjmvoqfynbcppv fhcvpzmjp
mtvymqmlkvpua voctmkcv cxvPlhhcbqgvAvsfqjchvpzcqqomlbhxvFvzfakvmtvcgcp,
ql abmlpvogvkctqcyjambvfrfabpjvjscvhfgqarsjvuajsmlj,vufpvufjysabrv c
mljvmtvjscvhfknbcppx

“Jscvmqhvabpjabyja.cvhkcfhvmtvuaqhvocfpjpvyf cvlzmbv cxvAvyqcbyschv g
sfbhpvfbhvpjcfhtfpjqgvqmmnchvabjmvjscvrqfkabrvcgcofqqpxvAvufpvftkfahvjm
jlkbxvJscbvjscvjsmlrsjvmtvjscvfopmqljcvpcylkajgvabvusaysvsl fbajg
fzzcfkchvjmvocvqa.abrvyf cvjmv gv abhxvFbhvjscbvAvkc c ockchvjsfj
pjkfbrcvjckkmkvmtvjscvhfknxvM.ckym abrv gvtcfkvjmvpm cvcejcbj,vA
fh.fbychvfvpjczvfbhvpzmncxvAvuaqqvfh ajvjsfjv gv.maycvufpvsfkpsvfbh
aqq-ymbjkmqqchxvAvzljvmljv gvsfbhvfbhvjmlyschvpm cjsabrvpmtjxvFjvmbyc
jscvcgcpvhfkjchvpahcufgp,vfbhvpm cjsabrvusajcvkfbvzfpjv cxvAvjlkbch
uajsv gvscfkjvabv gv mljs,vfbhvpfuvfvdlcckvqajjqcvfzc-qancvtarlkc,vajp
scfhvscqhvhmubvabvfvzcylqafkv fbbck,vklbbabrvfykmppvjscvplbqajvpzfyc
ocsabhv cxvAjvoqlbhckchvfrfabpjvfvoqmynvmtvrkfbajc,vpjfrrckchvfpahc,
fbhvabvfv m cbjvufpvsahhcbvabvfvoqfynvpsfhmuvocbcfjsvfbmjsckvzaqcvmt
klabchv fpmbkgx

“ gva zkcppambvmtvajvap,vmtvymlkpc,va zcktcyj;voljvAvnbmuvajvufpvfvhlqq
usajc,vfbhvsfhvpjkfbrcvqfkrcvrkcgaps-kchvcgcp;vfqpmvjsfjvjsckcvufp
tqfecbvsfakvmbvajpvscfhvfbhvhmubvajpvofynxvOlj,vfpvAvpfg,vajvucbjvjmm
tfpjvtmkv cvjmvpccvhapjabyjqgxvAvyfbbmjvc.cbvpfgvuscjsckvajvkfbvmbvfqq
tmlkp,vmkvmbqgvuajsvajpvtmkcfk pvscqhv.ckgvqmuxvFtjckvfbvabpjfbj’p
zflpcvAvtmqqmuchvajvabjmvjscvpcymbhvscfzvmtvklabpxvAvymlqhvbmjvtabhvaj
fjvtakpj;volj,vftjckvfvja cvabvjscvzkmtmlbhvmopylkajg,vAvyf cvlzmbvmbc
mtvjsmpcvkmlbhvucqq-qancvmzcbabrpvmtvusaysvAvsf.cvjmqhvgml,vsfqtvyqmpch
ogvfvtfqqcbvzaqqfkxvFvplhhcbvjsmlrsjvyf cvjmv cxvYmlqhvjsapvJsabrvsf.c
.fbapschvhmubvjscvpsftj?vAvqajvfv fjys,vfbh,vqmmnabrvhmub,vAvpfuvf
p fqq,vusajc,v m.abrvykcfjlkc,vuajsvqfkrcvokarsjvcgcpvusaysvkcrfkhchv c
pjcfhtfpjqgvfpvajvkcjkcfjchxvAjv fhcv cvpslhhckxvAjvufpvpmvqancvfvsl fb
pzahck!vAjvufpvyqf ockabrvhmubvjscvufqq,vfbhvbmuvAvpfuvtmkvjscvtakpj
ja cvfvbl ockvmtv cjfqvtmmjvfbhvsfbhvkcpjpvtmk abrvfvnabhvmtvqfhhck
hmubvjscvpsftjxvJscbvjscvqarsjvolkbchv gvtabrckpvfbhvtcqqvmljvmtv g
sfbh,vrmabrvmljvfpvajvhkmzzch,vfbhvuscbvAvsfhvqajvfbmjsckvjscvqajjqc
 mbpjckvsfhvhapfzzcfkchx

“AvhmvbmjvnbmuvsmuvqmbrvAvpfjvzcckabrvhmubvjsfjvucqqxvAjvufpvbmjvtmk
pm cvja cvjsfjvAvymlqhvplyycchvabvzckplfhabrv gpcqtvjsfjvjscvjsabrvA
sfhvpccbvufpvsl fbxvOlj,vrkfhlfqqg,vjscvjkljsvhfubchvmbv c:vjsfjv fb
sfhvbmjvkc fabchvmbcvpzcyacp,voljvsfhvhattckcbjafjchvabjmvjumvhapjabyj
fba fqp:vjsfjv gvrkfyctlqvysaqhkcbvmtvjscvLzzckvUmkqhvuckcvbmjvjscvpmqc
hcpycbhfbjpvmtvmlkvrcbckfjamb,voljvjsfjvjsapvoqcfysch,vmopycbc,
bmyjlkbfqvJsabr,vusaysvsfhvtqfpschvoctmkcv c,vufpvfqpmvscakvjmvfqqvjsc
frcpx

“Avjsmlrsjvmtvjscvtqaynckabrvzaqqfkpvfbhvmtv gvjscmkgvmtvfbvlbhckrkmlbh
.cbjaqfjambxvAvocrfbvjmvplpzcyjvjscakvjklcva zmkjxvFbhvusfj,vA
umbhckch,vufpvjsapvQc lkvhmabrvabv gvpysc cvmtvfvzcktcyjqgvofqfbych
mkrfbapfjamb?vSmuvufpvajvkcqfjchvjmvjscvabhmqcbjvpckcbajgvmtvjsc
ocfljatlqvM.ckumkqhckp?vFbhvusfjvufpvsahhcbvhmubvjsckc,vfjvjscvtmmjvmt
jsfjvpsftj?vAvpfjvlzmbvjscvchrcvmtvjscvucqqvjcqqabrv gpcqtvjsfj,vfjvfbg
kfjc,vjsckcvufpvbmjsabrvjmvtcfk,vfbhvjsfjvjsckcvAv lpjvhcpycbhvtmkvjsc
pmqljambvmtv gvhattaylqjacpxvFbhvuajsfqvAvufpvfopmqljcqgvftkfahvjmvrm!
FpvAvscpajfjch,vjumvmtvjscvocfljatlqvlzzckumkqhvzcmzqcvyf cvklbbabrvab
jscakvf mkmlpvpzmkjvfykmppvjscvhfgqarsjvabvjscvpsfhmuxvJscv fqcvzlkplch
jscvtc fqc,vtqabrabrvtqmuckpvfjvsckvfpvscvkfbx

“Jscgvpcc chvhapjkcppchvjmvtabhv c,v gvfk vfrfabpjvjscvm.ckjlkbch
zaqqfk,vzcckabrvhmubvjscvucqqxvFzzfkcbjqgvajvufpvymbpahckchvofhvtmk vjm
kc fknvjscpcvfzckjlkcp;vtmkvuscbvAvzmabjchvjmvjsapvmbc,vfbhvjkachvjm
tkf cvfvdlcpjambvfomljvajvabvjscakvjmbrlc,vjscgvuckcvpjaqqv mkcv.apaoqg
hapjkcppchvfbhvjlkbchvfufgxvOljvjscgvuckcvabjckcpjchvogv gv fjyscp,vfbh
Avpjklynvpm cvjmvf lpcvjsc xvAvjkachvjsc vfrfabvfomljvjscvucqq,vfbh
frfabvAvtfaqchxvPmvzkcpcbjqgvAvqctjvjsc ,v cfbabrvjmvrmvofynvjmvUccbf,
fbhvpccvusfjvAvymlqhvrcjvtkm vsckxvOljv gv abhvufpvfqkcfhgvab
kc.mqljamb;v gvrlcppcpvfbhva zkcppambpvuckcvpqazzabrvfbhvpqahabrvjmvf
bcuvfhilpj cbjxvAvsfhvbmuvfvyqlcvjmvjscva zmkjvmtvjscpcvucqqp,vjmvjsc
.cbjaqfjabrvjmuckp,vjmvjscv gpjckgvmtvjscvrsmpjp;vjmvpfgvbmjsabrvmtvf
sabjvfjvjscv cfbabrvmtvjscvokmbwcvrfjcpvfbhvjscvtfjcvmtvjscvJa c
 fysabc!vFbhv.ckgv.frlcqgvjsckcvyf cvfvplrrcpjambvjmufkhpvjscvpmqljamb
mtvjscvcymbm ayvzkmoqc vjsfjvsfhvzlwwqchv cx

“Sckcvufpvjscvbcuv.acuxvZqfabqg,vjsapvpcymbhvpzcyacpvmtv fbvufp
plojckkfbcfbxvJsckcvuckcvjskccvyakyl pjfbycpvabvzfkjaylqfkvusaysv fhc
 cvjsabnvjsfjvajpvkfkcvc ckrcbycvfom.cvrkmlbhvufpvjscvmljym cvmtvf
qmbr-ymbjablchvlbhckrkmlbhvsfoajxvAbvjscvtakpjvzqfyc,vjsckcvufpvjsc
oqcfyschvqmmnvym  mbvabv mpjvfba fqpvjsfjvqa.cvqfkrcqgvabvjscvhfkn—jsc
usajcvtapsvmtvjscvNcbjlyngvyf.cp,vtmkvabpjfbycxvJscb,vjsmpcvqfkrcvcgcp,
uajsvjsfjvyfzfyajgvtmkvkctqcyjabrvqarsj,vfkcvym  mbvtcfjlkcpvmt
bmyjlkbfqvjsabrp—uajbcppvjscvmuqvfbhvjscvyfjxvFbhvqfpjvmtvfqq,vjsfj
c.ahcbjvymbtlpambvabvjscvplbpsabc,vjsfjvsfpjgvgcjvtl oqabrvfunufkh
tqarsjvjmufkhpvhfknvpsfhmu,vfbhvjsfjvzcylqafkvyfkkafrcvmtvjscvscfh
usaqcvabvjscvqarsj—fqqvkcabtmkychvjscvjscmkgvmtvfbvcejkc c
pcbpaja.cbcppvmtvjscvkcjabfx

“Ocbcfjsv gvtccj,vjscb,vjscvcfkjsv lpjvocvjlbbcqqchvcbmk mlpqg,vfbh
jscpcvjlbbcqqabrpvuckcvjscvsfoajfjvmtvjscvBcuvKfycxvJscvzkcpcbycvmt
.cbjaqfjabrvpsftjpvfbhvucqqpvfqmbrvjscvsaqqvpqmzcp—c.ckgusckc,vabvtfyj,
ceyczjvfqmbrvjscvka.ckv.fqqcg—psmuchvsmuvlba.ckpfqvuckcvajp
kf atayfjambpxvUsfjvpmvbfjlkfq,vjscb,vfpvjmvfppl cvjsfjvajvufpvabvjsap
fkjatayafqvLbhckumkqhvjsfjvplysvumknvfpvufpvbcycppfkgvjmvjscvym tmkjvmt
jscvhfgqarsjvkfycvufpvhmbc?vJscvbmjambvufpvpmvzqflpaoqcvjsfjvAvfjvmbyc
fyyczjchvaj,vfbhvucbjvmbvjmvfppl cvjscv_smu_vmtvjsapvpzqajjabrvmtvjsc
sl fbvpzcyacpxvAvhfkcvpfgvgmlvuaqqvfbjayazfjcvjscvpsfzcvmtv gvjscmkg;
jsmlrs,vtmkv gpcqt,vAv.ckgvpmmbvtcqjvjsfjvajvtcqqvtfkvpsmkjvmtvjsc
jkljsx

“Fjvtakpj,vzkmycchabrvtkm vjscvzkmoqc pvmtvmlkvmubvfrc,vajvpcc chvyqcfk
fpvhfgqarsjvjmv cvjsfjvjscvrkfhlfqvuahcbabrvmtvjscvzkcpcbjv ckcqg
jc zmkfkgvfbhvpmyafqvhattckcbycvocjuccbvjscvYfzajfqapjvfbhvjscvQfomlkck
ufpvjscvncgvjmvjscvusmqcvzmpajambxvBmvhmlojvajvuaqqvpcc vrkmjcpdlc
cbmlrsvjmvgml—fbhvuaqhqgvabykchaoqc!—fbhvgcjvc.cbvbmuvjsckcvfkc
ceapjabrvyakyl pjfbycpvjmvzmabjvjsfjvufgxvJsckcvapvfvjcbhcbygvjm
ljaqapcvlbhckrkmlbhvpzfycvtmkvjscvqcppvmkbf cbjfqvzlkzmpcpvmt
ya.aqapfjamb;vjsckcvapvjscv cjkmzmqajfbvKfaqufgvabvQmbhmb,vtmk
abpjfbyc,vjsckcvfkcvbcuvcqcyjkayvkfaqufgp,vjsckcvfkcvploufgp,vjsckcvfkc
lbhckrkmlbhvumknkmm pvfbhvkcpjflkfbjp,vfbhvjscgvabykcfpcvfbhv lqjazqgx
C.ahcbjqg,vAvjsmlrsj,vjsapvjcbhcbygvsfhvabykcfpchvjaqqvAbhlpjkgvsfh
rkfhlfqqgvqmpjvajpvoakjskarsjvabvjscvpngxvAv cfbvjsfjvajvsfhvrmbc
hcczckvfbhvhcczckvabjmvqfkrckvfbhvc.ckvqfkrckvlbhckrkmlbhvtfyjmkacp,
pzcbhabrvfvpjaqq-abykcfpabrvf mlbjvmtvajpvja cvjsckcab,vjaqq,vabvjsc
cbh—!vC.cbvbmu,vhmcpvbmjvfbvCfpj-cbhvumknckvqa.cvabvplysvfkjatayafq
ymbhajambpvfpvzkfyjayfqqgvjmvocvyljvmttvtkm vjscvbfjlkfqvplktfycvmtvjsc
cfkjs?

“Frfab,vjscvceyqlpa.cvjcbhcbygvmtvkaysckvzcmzqc—hlc,vbmvhmloj,vjmvjsc
abykcfpabrvkctabc cbjvmtvjscakvchlyfjamb,vfbhvjscvuahcbabrvrlqtvocjuccb
jsc vfbhvjscvklhcv.amqcbycvmtvjscvzmmk—apvfqkcfhgvqcfhabrvjmvjsc
yqmpabr,vabvjscakvabjckcpj,vmtvymbpahckfoqcvzmkjambpvmtvjscvplktfycvmt
jscvqfbhxvFomljvQmbhmb,vtmkvabpjfbyc,vzcksfzpvsfqtvjscvzkcjjackvymlbjkg
apvpsljvabvfrfabpjvabjklpambxvFbhvjsapvpf cvuahcbabrvrlqt—usaysvapvhlc
jmvjscvqcbrjsvfbhvcezcbpcvmtvjscvsarsckvchlyfjambfqvzkmycppvfbhvjsc
abykcfpchvtfyaqajacpvtmkvfbhvjc zjfjambpvjmufkhpvkctabchvsfoajpvmbvjsc
zfkjvmtvjscvkays—uaqqv fncvjsfjvceysfbrcvocjuccbvyqfppvfbhvyqfpp,vjsfj
zkm mjambvogvabjck fkkafrcvusaysvfjvzkcpcbjvkcjfkhpvjscvpzqajjabrvmt
mlkvpzcyacpvfqmbrvqabcpvmtvpmyafqvpjkfjatayfjamb,vqcppvfbhvqcpp
tkcdlcbjxvPm,vabvjscvcbh,vfom.cvrkmlbhvgmlv lpjvsf.cvjscvSf.cp,
zlkplabrvzqcfplkcvfbhvym tmkjvfbhvocfljg,vfbhvocqmuvrkmlbhvjsc
Sf.c-bmjp,vjscvUmknckpvrcjjabrvymbjablfqqgvfhfzjchvjmvjscvymbhajambpvmt
jscakvqfomlkxvMbycvjscgvuckcvjsckc,vjscgvumlqhvbmvhmlojvsf.cvjmvzfg
kcbj,vfbhvbmjvfvqajjqcvmtvaj,vtmkvjscv.cbjaqfjambvmtvjscakvyf.ckbp;vfbh
atvjscgvkctlpch,vjscgvumlqhvpjfk.cvmkvocvplttmyfjchvtmkvfkkcfkpxvPlys
mtvjsc vfpvuckcvpmvymbpjajljchvfpvjmvocv apckfoqcvfbhvkcocqqamlpvumlqh
hac;vfbh,vabvjscvcbh,vjscvofqfbycvocabrvzck fbcbj,vjscvplk.a.mkpvumlqh
ocym cvfpvucqqvfhfzjchvjmvjscvymbhajambpvmtvlbhckrkmlbhvqatc,vfbhvfp
sfzzgvabvjscakvufg,vfpvjscvM.ckumkqhvzcmzqcvuckcvjmvjscakpxvFpvaj
pcc chvjmv c,vjscvkctabchvocfljgvfbhvjscvcjamqfjchvzfqqmkvtmqqmuch
bfjlkfqqgvcbmlrsx

“Jscvrkcfjvjkal zsvmtvSl fbajgvAvsfhvhkcf chvmtvjmmnvfvhattckcbjvpsfzc
abv gv abhxvAjvsfhvoccbvbmvplysvjkal zsvmtv mkfqvchlyfjambvfbhvrcbckfq
ym-mzckfjambvfpvAvsfhva frabchxvAbpjcfh,vAvpfuvfvkcfqvfkapjmykfyg,
fk chvuajsvfvzcktcyjchvpyacbycvfbhvumknabrvjmvfvqmrayfqvymbyqlpambvjsc
abhlpjkafqvpgpjc vmtvjmhfgxvAjpvjkal zsvsfhvbmjvoccbvpa zqgvfvjkal zs
m.ckvBfjlkc,voljvfvjkal zsvm.ckvBfjlkcvfbhvjscvtcqqmu- fbxvJsap,vAv lpj
ufkbvgml,vufpv gvjscmkgvfjvjscvja cxvAvsfhvbmvymb.cbacbjvyayckmbcvab
jscvzfjjckbvmtvjscvLjmzafbvommnpxv gvcezqfbfjambv fgvocvfopmqljcqg
ukmbrxvAvpjaqqvjsabnvajvapvjscv mpjvzqflpaoqcvmbcxvOljvc.cbvmbvjsap
plzzmpajambvjscvofqfbychvya.aqapfjambvjsfjvufpvfjvqfpjvfjjfabchv lpj
sf.cvqmbrvpabycvzfppchvajpvwcbajs,vfbhvufpvbmuvtfkvtfqqcbvabjmvhcyfgx
Jscvjmm-zcktcyjvpcylkajgvmtvjscvM.ckumkqhckpvsfhvqchvjsc vjmvfvpqmu
 m.c cbjvmtvhcrcbckfjamb,vjmvfvrcbckfqvhuabhqabrvabvpawc,vpjkcbrjs,vfbh
abjcqqarcbycxvJsfjvAvymlqhvpccvyqcfkqgvcbmlrsvfqkcfhgxvUsfjvsfh
sfzzcbchvjmvjscvLbhckrkmlbhckpvAvhahvbmjvgcjvplpzcyj;volj,vtkm vusfjvA
sfhvpccbvmtvjscv mkqmynp—jsfj,vogvjscvogc,vufpvjscvbf cvogvusaysvjscpc
ykcfjlkcpvuckcvyfqqch—Avymlqhva frabcvjsfjvjscv mhatayfjambvmtvjsc
sl fbvjgzcvufpvc.cbvtfkv mkcvzkmtmlbhvjsfbvf mbrvjscv‘Cqma,’vjsc
ocfljatlqvkfycvjsfjvAvfqkcfhgvnbcux

“Jscbvyf cvjkmloqcpm cvhmlojpxvUsgvsfhvjscv mkqmynpvjfncbv gvJa c
 fysabc?vTmkvAvtcqjvplkcvajvufpvjscgvusmvsfhvjfncbvajxvUsg,vjmm,vatvjsc
Cqmavuckcv fpjckp,vymlqhvjscgvbmjvkcpjmkcvjscv fysabcvjmv c?vFbhvusg
uckcvjscgvpmvjckkaoqgvftkfahvmtvjscvhfkn?vAvzkmycchch,vfpvAvsf.cvpfah,
jmvdlcpjambvUccbfvfomljvjsapvLbhckumkqh,voljvsckcvfrfabvAvufp
hapfzzmabjchxvFjvtakpjvpscvumlqhvbmjvlbhckpjfbhv gvdlcpjambp,vfbh
zkcpcbjqgvpscvkctlpchvjmvfbpuckvjsc xvPscvpsa.ckchvfpvjsmlrsvjscvjmzay
ufpvlbcbhlkfoqcxvFbhvuscbvAvzkcppchvsck,vzcksfzpvfvqajjqcvsfkpsqg,vpsc
olkpjvabjmvjcfkpxvJscgvuckcvjscvmbqgvjcfkp,vceyczjv gvmub,vAvc.ckvpfu
abvjsfjvRmqhcbvFrcxvUscbvAvpfuvjsc vAvycfpchvfoklzjqgvjmvjkmloqcvfomlj
jscv mkqmynp,vfbhvufpvmbqgvymbyckbchvabvofbapsabrvjscpcvparbpvmtvsck
sl fbvabsckajfbycvtkm vUccbf’pvcgcpxvFbhv.ckgvpmmbvpscvufpvp aqabrvfbh
yqfzzabrvsckvsfbhp,vusaqcvAvpmqc bqgvolkbjvfv fjysx



vAE


vJscv mkqmynp

“Ajv fgvpcc vmhhvjmvgml,voljvajvufpvjumvhfgpvoctmkcvAvymlqhvtmqqmuvlz
jscvbcu-tmlbhvyqlcvabvusfjvufpv fbatcpjqgvjscvzkmzckvufgxvAvtcqjvf
zcylqafkvpskabnabrvtkm vjsmpcvzfqqahvomhacpxvJscgvuckcvilpjvjsc
sfqt-oqcfyschvymqmlkvmtvjscvumk pvfbhvjsabrpvmbcvpccpvzkcpck.chvab
pzakajvabvfvwmmqmrayfqv lpcl xvFbhvjscgvuckcvtaqjsaqgvymqhvjmvjsc
jmlysxvZkmofoqgv gvpskabnabrvufpvqfkrcqgvhlcvjmvjscvpg zfjscjay
abtqlcbycvmtvjscvCqma,vusmpcvhaprlpjvmtvjscv mkqmynpvAvbmuvocrfbvjm
fzzkcyafjcx

“JscvbcejvbarsjvAvhahvbmjvpqcczvucqqxvZkmofoqgv gvscfqjsvufpvfvqajjqc
hapmkhckchxvAvufpvmzzkcppchvuajsvzckzqceajgvfbhvhmlojxvMbycvmkvjuaycvA
sfhvfvtccqabrvmtvabjcbpcvtcfkvtmkvusaysvAvymlqhvzckyca.cvbmvhctabajc
kcfpmbxvAvkc c ockvykcczabrvbmapcqcppqgvabjmvjscvrkcfjvsfqqvusckcvjsc
qajjqcvzcmzqcvuckcvpqcczabrvabvjscv mmbqarsj—jsfjvbarsjvUccbfvufpvf mbr
jsc —fbhvtccqabrvkcfpplkchvogvjscakvzkcpcbycxvAjvmyylkkchvjmv cvc.cb
jscb,vjsfjvabvjscvymlkpcvmtvfvtcuvhfgpvjscv mmbv lpjvzfppvjskmlrsvajp
qfpjvdlfkjck,vfbhvjscvbarsjpvrkmuvhfkn,vuscbvjscvfzzcfkfbycpvmtvjscpc
lbzqcfpfbjvykcfjlkcpvtkm vocqmu,vjscpcvusajcbchvQc lkp,vjsapvbcuv.ck ab
jsfjvsfhvkczqfychvjscvmqh,v arsjvocv mkcvfolbhfbjxvFbhvmbvomjsvjscpc
hfgpvAvsfhvjscvkcpjqcppvtccqabrvmtvmbcvusmvpsaknpvfbvabc.ajfoqcvhljgxvA
tcqjvfpplkchvjsfjvjscvJa cv fysabcvufpvmbqgvjmvocvkcym.ckchvogvomqhqg
zcbcjkfjabrvjscpcv gpjckacpvmtvlbhckrkmlbhxvGcjvAvymlqhvbmjvtfycvjsc
 gpjckgxvAtvmbqgvAvsfhvsfhvfvym zfbambvajvumlqhvsf.cvoccbvhattckcbjx
OljvAvufpvpmvsmkkaoqgvfqmbc,vfbhvc.cbvjmvyqf ockvhmubvabjmvjscvhfknbcpp
mtvjscvucqqvfzzfqqchv cxvAvhmb’jvnbmuvatvgmlvuaqqvlbhckpjfbhv g
tccqabr,voljvAvbc.ckvtcqjvdlajcvpftcvfjv gvofynx

“Ajvufpvjsapvkcpjqcppbcpp,vjsapvabpcylkajg,vzcksfzp,vjsfjvhkm.cv c
tfkjsckvfbhvtfkjsckvftacqhvabv gvcezqmkabrvcezchajambpxvRmabrvjmvjsc
pmljs-ucpjufkhvjmufkhpvjscvkapabrvymlbjkgvjsfjvapvbmuvyfqqchvYm oc
Ummh,vAvmopck.chvtfk-mtt,vabvjscvhakcyjambvmtvbabcjccbjs-ycbjlkg
Ofbpjcfh,vfv.fpjvrkccbvpjklyjlkc,vhattckcbjvabvysfkfyjckvtkm vfbgvAvsfh
sajsckjmvpccbxvAjvufpvqfkrckvjsfbvjscvqfkrcpjvmtvjscvzfqfycpvmkvklabpvA
nbcu,vfbhvjscvtfçfhcvsfhvfbvMkacbjfqvqmmn:vjscvtfycvmtvajvsf.abrvjsc
qlpjkc,vfpvucqqvfpvjscvzfqc-rkccbvjabj,vfvnabhvmtvoqlaps-rkccb,vmtvf
yckjfabvjgzcvmtvYsabcpcvzmkycqfabxvJsapvhattckcbycvabvfpzcyjvplrrcpjch
fvhattckcbycvabvlpc,vfbhvAvufpv abhchvjmvzlpsvmbvfbhvcezqmkcxvOljvjsc
hfgvufpvrkmuabrvqfjc,vfbhvAvsfhvym cvlzmbvjscvparsjvmtvjscvzqfycvftjck
fvqmbrvfbhvjakabrvyakylaj;vpmvAvkcpmq.chvjmvsmqhvm.ckvjscvfh.cbjlkcvtmk
jscvtmqqmuabrvhfg,vfbhvAvkcjlkbchvjmvjscvucqym cvfbhvjscvyfkcppcpvmt
qajjqcvUccbfxvOljvbcejv mkbabrvAvzckyca.chvyqcfkqgvcbmlrsvjsfjv g
ylkampajgvkcrfkhabrvjscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfabvufpvfvzacycvmt
pcqt-hcyczjamb,vjmvcbfoqcv cvjmvpsakn,vogvfbmjsckvhfg,vfbvcezckacbycvA
hkcfhchxvAvkcpmq.chvAvumlqhv fncvjscvhcpycbjvuajsmljvtlkjsckvufpjcvmt
ja c,vfbhvpjfkjchvmljvabvjscvcfkqgv mkbabrvjmufkhpvfvucqqvbcfkvjsc
klabpvmtvrkfbajcvfbhvfql abal x

“QajjqcvUccbfvkfbvuajsv cxvPscvhfbychvocpahcv cvjmvjscvucqq,voljvuscb
pscvpfuv cvqcfbvm.ckvjscv mljsvfbhvqmmnvhmubufkh,vpscvpcc chvpjkfbrcqg
hapymbyckjchxv‘Rmmh-ogc,vqajjqcvUccbf,’vAvpfah,vnappabrvsck;vfbhvjscb
zljjabrvsckvhmub,vAvocrfbvjmvtccqvm.ckvjscvzfkfzcjvtmkvjscvyqa oabr
smmnpxvKfjsckvsfpjaqg,vAv fgvfpvucqqvymbtcpp,vtmkvAvtcfkchv gvymlkfrc
 arsjvqcfnvfufg!vFjvtakpjvpscvufjyschv cvabvf fwc cbjxvJscbvpscvrf.cvf
 mpjvzajcmlpvykg,vfbhvklbbabrvjmv c,vpscvocrfbvjmvzlqqvfjv cvuajsvsck
qajjqcvsfbhpxvAvjsabnvsckvmzzmpajambvbck.chv cvkfjsckvjmvzkmycchxvA
psmmnvsckvmtt,vzcksfzpvfvqajjqcvkmlrsqg,vfbhvabvfbmjsckv m cbjvAvufpvab
jscvjskmfjvmtvjscvucqqxvAvpfuvsckvfrmbapchvtfycvm.ckvjscvzfkfzcj,vfbh
p aqchvjmvkcfpplkcvsckxvJscbvAvsfhvjmvqmmnvhmubvfjvjscvlbpjfoqcvsmmnp
jmvusaysvAvyqlbrx

“Avsfhvjmvyqf ockvhmubvfvpsftjvmtvzcksfzpvjumvslbhkchvgfkhpxvJsc
hcpycbjvufpvcttcyjchvogv cfbpvmtv cjfqqayvofkpvzkmicyjabrvtkm vjsc
pahcpvmtvjscvucqq,vfbhvjscpcvocabrvfhfzjchvjmvjscvbcchpvmtvfvykcfjlkc
 lysvp fqqckvfbhvqarsjckvjsfbv gpcqt,vAvufpvpzcchaqgvykf zchvfbh
tfjarlchvogvjscvhcpycbjxvFbhvbmjvpa zqgvtfjarlch!vMbcvmtvjscvofkpvocbj
plhhcbqgvlbhckv gvucarsj,vfbhvfq mpjvpulbrv cvmttvabjmvjscvoqfynbcpp
ocbcfjsxvTmkvfv m cbjvAvslbrvogvmbcvsfbh,vfbhvftjckvjsfjvcezckacbycvA
hahvbmjvhfkcvjmvkcpjvfrfabxvJsmlrsv gvfk pvfbhvofynvuckcvzkcpcbjqg
fyljcqgvzfabtlq,vAvucbjvmbvyqf ockabrvhmubvjscvpscckvhcpycbjvuajsvfp
dlaynvfv mjambvfpvzmppaoqcxvRqfbyabrvlzufkh,vAvpfuvjscvfzckjlkc,vf
p fqqvoqlcvhapy,vabvusaysvfvpjfkvufpv.apaoqc,vusaqcvqajjqcvUccbf’pvscfh
psmuchvfpvfvkmlbhvoqfynvzkmicyjambxvJscvjslhhabrvpmlbhvmtvfv fysabc
ocqmuvrkcuvqmlhckvfbhv mkcvmzzkcppa.cxvC.ckgjsabrvpf.cvjsfjvqajjqcvhapy
fom.cvufpvzkmtmlbhqgvhfkn,vfbhvuscbvAvqmmnchvlzvfrfabvUccbfvsfh
hapfzzcfkchx

“Avufpvabvfbvfrmbgvmtvhapym tmkjxvAvsfhvpm cvjsmlrsjvmtvjkgabrvjmvrmvlz
jscvpsftjvfrfab,vfbhvqcf.cvjscvLbhckumkqhvfqmbcxvOljvc.cbvusaqcvA
jlkbchvjsapvm.ckvabv gv abhvAvymbjablchvjmvhcpycbhxvFjvqfpj,vuajs
abjcbpcvkcqact,vAvpfuvha qgvym abrvlz,vfvtmmjvjmvjscvkarsjvmtv c,vf
pqcbhckvqmmzsmqcvabvjscvufqqxvPuabrabrv gpcqtvab,vAvtmlbhvajvufpvjsc
fzckjlkcvmtvfvbfkkmuvsmkawmbjfqvjlbbcqvabvusaysvAvymlqhvqacvhmubvfbh
kcpjxvAjvufpvbmjvjmmvpmmbxv gvfk pvfysch,v gvofynvufpvykf zch,vfbhvA
ufpvjkc oqabrvuajsvjscvzkmqmbrchvjckkmkvmtvfvtfqqxvOcpahcpvjsap,vjsc
lbokmncbvhfknbcppvsfhvsfhvfvhapjkcppabrvcttcyjvlzmbv gvcgcpxvJscvfak
ufpvtlqqvmtvjscvjskmovfbhvsl vmtv fysabckgvzl zabrvfakvhmubvjscvpsftjx

“AvhmvbmjvnbmuvsmuvqmbrvAvqfgxvAvufpvfkkmlpchvogvfvpmtjvsfbhvjmlysabr
 gvtfycxvPjfkjabrvlzvabvjscvhfknbcppvAvpbfjyschvfjv gv fjyscpvfbh,
sfpjaqgvpjkanabrvmbc,vAvpfuvjskccvpjmmzabrvusajcvykcfjlkcpvpa aqfkvjm
jscvmbcvAvsfhvpccbvfom.cvrkmlbhvabvjscvklab,vsfpjaqgvkcjkcfjabrvoctmkc
jscvqarsjxvQa.abr,vfpvjscgvhah,vabvusfjvfzzcfkchvjmv cva zcbcjkfoqc
hfknbcpp,vjscakvcgcpvuckcvfobmk fqqgvqfkrcvfbhvpcbpaja.c,vilpjvfpvfkc
jscvzlzaqpvmtvjscvfogp fqvtapscp,vfbhvjscgvkctqcyjchvjscvqarsjvabvjsc
pf cvufgxvAvsf.cvbmvhmlojvjscgvymlqhvpccv cvabvjsfjvkfgqcppvmopylkajg,
fbhvjscgvhahvbmjvpcc vjmvsf.cvfbgvtcfkvmtv cvfzfkjvtkm vjscvqarsjxvOlj,
pmvpmmbvfpvAvpjklynvfv fjysvabvmkhckvjmvpccvjsc ,vjscgvtqch
abymbjabcbjqg,v.fbapsabrvabjmvhfknvrljjckpvfbhvjlbbcqp,vtkm vusays
jscakvcgcpvrqfkchvfjv cvabvjscvpjkfbrcpjvtfpsambx

“Avjkachvjmvyfqqvjmvjsc ,voljvjscvqfbrlfrcvjscgvsfhvufpvfzzfkcbjqg
hattckcbjvtkm vjsfjvmtvjscvM.ckumkqhvzcmzqc;vpmvjsfjvAvufpvbcchpvqctj
jmv gvmubvlbfahchvcttmkjp,vfbhvjscvjsmlrsjvmtvtqarsjvoctmkcvcezqmkfjamb
ufpvc.cbvjscbvabv gv abhxvOljvAvpfahvjmv gpcqt,v‘Gmlvfkcvabvtmkvaj
bmu,’vfbh,vtccqabrv gvufgvfqmbrvjscvjlbbcq,vAvtmlbhvjscvbmapcvmt
 fysabckgvrkmuvqmlhckxvZkcpcbjqgvjscvufqqpvtcqqvfufgvtkm v c,vfbhvA
yf cvjmvfvqfkrcvmzcbvpzfyc,vfbhvpjkanabrvfbmjsckv fjys,vpfuvjsfjvAvsfh
cbjckchvfv.fpjvfkyschvyf.ckb,vusaysvpjkcjyschvabjmvljjckvhfknbcpp
ocgmbhvjscvkfbrcvmtv gvqarsjxvJscv.acuvAvsfhvmtvajvufpvfpv lysvfpvmbc
ymlqhvpccvabvjscvolkbabrvmtvfv fjysx

“Bcycppfkaqgv gv c mkgvapv.frlcxvRkcfjvpsfzcpvqancvoarv fysabcpvkmpc
mljvmtvjscvha bcpp,vfbhvyfpjvrkmjcpdlcvoqfynvpsfhmup,vabvusaysvha 
pzcyjkfqv mkqmynpvpscqjckchvtkm vjscvrqfkcxvJscvzqfyc,vogvjscvogc,vufp
.ckgvpjlttgvfbhvmzzkcppa.c,vfbhvjscvtfabjvsfqajlpvmtvtkcpsqg-pschvoqmmh
ufpvabvjscvfakxvPm cvufgvhmubvjscvycbjkfqv.apjfvufpvfvqajjqcvjfoqcvmt
usajcv cjfq,vqfahvuajsvusfjvpcc chvfv cfqxvJscv mkqmynpvfjvfbgvkfjc
uckcvyfkba.mkmlp!vC.cbvfjvjscvja c,vAvkc c ockvumbhckabrvusfjvqfkrc
fba fqvymlqhvsf.cvplk.a.chvjmvtlkbapsvjscvkchvimabjvAvpfuxvAjvufpvfqq
.ckgvabhapjabyj:vjscvscf.gvp cqq,vjscvoarvlb cfbabrvpsfzcp,vjscvmopycbc
tarlkcpvqlknabrvabvjscvpsfhmup,vfbhvmbqgvufajabrvtmkvjscvhfknbcppvjm
ym cvfjv cvfrfab!vJscbvjscv fjysvolkbjvhmub,vfbhvpjlbrv gvtabrckp,vfbh
tcqq,vfvukarrqabrvkchvpzmjvabvjscvoqfynbcppx

“Avsf.cvjsmlrsjvpabycvsmuvzfkjaylqfkqgvaqq-cdlazzchvAvufpvtmkvplysvfb
cezckacbycxvUscbvAvsfhvpjfkjchvuajsvjscvJa cv fysabc,vAvsfhvpjfkjch
uajsvjscvfoplkhvfppl zjambvjsfjvjscv cbvmtvjscvTljlkcvumlqhvyckjfabqg
ocvabtabajcqgvfscfhvmtvmlkpcq.cpvabvfqqvjscakvfzzqafbycpxvAvsfhvym c
uajsmljvfk p,vuajsmljv chayabc,vuajsmljvfbgjsabrvjmvp mnc—fjvja cpvA
 appchvjmofyymvtkarsjtlqqg!—c.cbvuajsmljvcbmlrsv fjyscpxvAtvmbqgvAvsfh
jsmlrsjvmtvfvNmhfn!vAvymlqhvsf.cvtqfpschvjsfjvrqa zpcvmtvjscvLbhckumkqh
abvfvpcymbh,vfbhvcef abchvajvfjvqcaplkcxvOlj,vfpvajvufp,vAvpjmmhvjsckc
uajsvmbqgvjscvucfzmbpvfbhvjscvzmuckpvjsfjvBfjlkcvsfhvcbhmuchv c
uajs—sfbhp,vtccj,vfbhvjccjs;vjscpc,vfbhvtmlkvpftcjg- fjyscpvjsfjvpjaqq
kc fabchvjmv cx

“Avufpvftkfahvjmvzlpsv gvufgvabvf mbrvfqqvjsapv fysabckgvabvjscvhfkn,
fbhvajvufpvmbqgvuajsv gvqfpjvrqa zpcvmtvqarsjvAvhapym.ckchvjsfjv g
pjmkcvmtv fjyscpvsfhvklbvqmuxvAjvsfhvbc.ckvmyylkkchvjmv cvlbjaqvjsfj
 m cbjvjsfjvjsckcvufpvfbgvbcchvjmvcymbm apcvjsc ,vfbhvAvsfhvufpjch
fq mpjvsfqtvjscvomevabvfpjmbapsabrvjscvM.ckumkqhckp,vjmvusm vtakcvufpvf
bm.cqjgxvBmu,vfpvAvpfg,vAvsfhvtmlkvqctj,vfbhvusaqcvAvpjmmhvabvjscvhfkn,
fvsfbhvjmlyschv abc,vqfbnvtabrckpvyf cvtccqabrvm.ckv gvtfyc,vfbhvAvufp
pcbpaoqcvmtvfvzcylqafkvlbzqcfpfbjvmhmlkxvAvtfbyachvAvscfkhvjsc
okcfjsabrvmtvfvykmuhvmtvjsmpcvhkcfhtlqvqajjqcvocabrpvfomljv cxvAvtcqj
jscvomevmtv fjyscpvabv gvsfbhvocabrvrcbjqgvhapcbrfrch,vfbhvmjsckvsfbhp
ocsabhv cvzqlynabrvfjv gvyqmjsabrxvJscvpcbpcvmtvjscpcvlbpccbvykcfjlkcp
cef ababrv cvufpvabhcpykaofoqgvlbzqcfpfbjxvJscvplhhcbvkcfqapfjambvmtv g
arbmkfbycvmtvjscakvufgpvmtvjsabnabrvfbhvhmabrvyf cvsm cvjmv cv.ckg
.a.ahqgvabvjscvhfknbcppxvAvpsmljchvfjvjsc vfpvqmlhqgvfpvAvymlqhxvJscg
pjfkjchvfufg,vfbhvjscbvAvymlqhvtccqvjsc vfzzkmfysabrv cvfrfabxvJscg
yqljyschvfjv cv mkcvomqhqg,vusapzckabrvmhhvpmlbhpvjmvcfysvmjsckxvA
psa.ckchv.amqcbjqg,vfbhvpsmljchvfrfab—kfjsckvhapymkhfbjqgxvJsapvja c
jscgvuckcvbmjvpmvpckamlpqgvfqfk ch,vfbhvjscgv fhcvfvdlcckvqflrsabr
bmapcvfpvjscgvyf cvofynvfjv cxvAvuaqqvymbtcppvAvufpvsmkkaoqg
tkarsjcbchxvAvhcjck abchvjmvpjkancvfbmjsckv fjysvfbhvcpyfzcvlbhckvjsc
zkmjcyjambvmtvajpvrqfkcxvAvhahvpm,vfbhvcnabrvmljvjscvtqaynckvuajsvf
pykfzvmtvzfzckvtkm v gvzmyncj,vAv fhcvrmmhv gvkcjkcfjvjmvjscvbfkkmu
jlbbcqxvOljvAvsfhvpyfkycvcbjckchvjsapvuscbv gvqarsjvufpvoqmubvmljvfbh
abvjscvoqfynbcppvAvymlqhvscfkvjscv mkqmynpvklpjqabrvqancvuabhvf mbr
qcf.cp,vfbhvzfjjckabrvqancvjscvkfab,vfpvjscgvslkkachvftjckv cx

“Abvfv m cbjvAvufpvyqljyschvogvpc.ckfqvsfbhp,vfbhvjsckcvufpvbm
 apjfnabrvjsfjvjscgvuckcvjkgabrvjmvsflqv cvofynxvAvpjklynvfbmjsck
qarsj,vfbhvuf.chvajvabvjscakvhfwwqchvtfycpxvGmlvyfbvpyfkycva frabcvsmu
bflpcfjabrqgvabsl fbvjscgvqmmnch—jsmpcvzfqc,vysabqcppvtfycpvfbhvrkcfj,
qahqcpp,vzabnaps-rkcgvcgcp!—fpvjscgvpjfkchvabvjscakvoqabhbcppvfbh
ocuaqhck cbjxvOljvAvhahvbmjvpjfgvjmvqmmn,vAvzkm apcvgml:vAvkcjkcfjch
frfab,vfbhvuscbv gvpcymbhv fjysvsfhvcbhch,vAvpjklynv gvjsakhxvAjvsfh
fq mpjvolkbjvjskmlrsvuscbvAvkcfyschvjscvmzcbabrvabjmvjscvpsftjxvAvqfg
hmubvmbvjscvchrc,vtmkvjscvjskmovmtvjscvrkcfjvzl zvocqmuv fhcv cvrahhgx
JscbvAvtcqjvpahcufgpvtmkvjscvzkmicyjabrvsmmnp,vfbh,vfpvAvhahvpm,v g
tccjvuckcvrkfpzchvtkm vocsabh,vfbhvAvufpv.amqcbjqgvjlrrchvofynufkhxvA
qajv gvqfpjv fjysv…vfbhvajvabymbjabcbjqgvucbjvmljxvOljvAvsfhv gvsfbhvmb
jscvyqa oabrvofkpvbmu,vfbh,vnaynabrv.amqcbjqg,vAvhapcbrfrchv gpcqtvtkm 
jscvyqljyscpvmtvjscv mkqmynp,vfbhvufpvpzcchaqgvyqf ockabrvlzvjscvpsftj,
usaqcvjscgvpjfgchvzcckabrvfbhvoqabnabrvlzvfjv c:vfqqvoljvmbcvqajjqc
ukcjysvusmvtmqqmuchv cvtmkvpm cvufg,vfbhvucqq-barsvpcylkchv gvommjvfpvf
jkmzsgx

“Jsfjvyqa ovpcc chvabjck abfoqcvjmv cxvUajsvjscvqfpjvjucbjgvmkvjsakjg
tccjvmtvajvfvhcfhqgvbflpcfvyf cvlzmbv cxvAvsfhvjscvrkcfjcpjvhattaylqjg
abvncczabrv gvsmqhxvJscvqfpjvtcuvgfkhpvufpvfvtkarsjtlqvpjklrrqcvfrfabpj
jsapvtfabjbcppxvPc.ckfqvja cpv gvscfhvpuf ,vfbhvAvtcqjvfqqvjsc
pcbpfjambpvmtvtfqqabrxvFjvqfpj,vsmuc.ck,vAvrmjvm.ckvjscvucqq- mljs
pm csmu,vfbhvpjfrrckchvmljvmtvjscvklabvabjmvjscvoqabhabrvplbqarsjxvA
tcqqvlzmbv gvtfycxvC.cbvjscvpmaqvp cqjvpuccjvfbhvyqcfbxvJscbvAvkc c ock
Uccbfvnappabrv gvsfbhpvfbhvcfkp,vfbhvjscv.maycpvmtvmjsckpvf mbrvjsc
CqmaxvJscb,vtmkvfvja c,vAvufpvabpcbpaoqcx



vE


vUscbvBarsjvYf c

“Bmu,vabhcch,vAvpcc chvabvfvumkpcvyfpcvjsfbvoctmkcxvSajsckjm,vceyczj
hlkabrv gvbarsj’pvfbrlapsvfjvjscvqmppvmtvjscvJa cv fysabc,vAvsfhvtcqjvf
plpjfababrvsmzcvmtvlqja fjcvcpyfzc,voljvjsfjvsmzcvufpvpjfrrckchvog
jscpcvbcuvhapym.ckacpxvSajsckjmvAvsfhv ckcqgvjsmlrsjv gpcqtva zchchvog
jscvysaqhapsvpa zqayajgvmtvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqc,vfbhvogvpm cvlbnbmub
tmkycpvusaysvAvsfhvmbqgvjmvlbhckpjfbhvjmvm.ckym c;voljvjsckcvufpvfb
fqjmrcjsckvbcuvcqc cbjvabvjscvpayncbabrvdlfqajgvmtvjscv mkqmynp—f
pm cjsabrvabsl fbvfbhv fqarbxvAbpjabyja.cqgvAvqmfjschvjsc xvOctmkc,vA
sfhvtcqjvfpvfv fbv arsjvtccqvusmvsfhvtfqqcbvabjmvfvzaj:v gvymbyckbvufp
uajsvjscvzajvfbhvsmuvjmvrcjvmljvmtvajxvBmuvAvtcqjvqancvfvocfpjvabvf
jkfz,vusmpcvcbc gvumlqhvym cvlzmbvsa vpmmbx

“Jscvcbc gvAvhkcfhchv fgvplkzkapcvgmlxvAjvufpvjscvhfknbcppvmtvjscvbcu
 mmbxvUccbfvsfhvzljvjsapvabjmv gvscfhvogvpm cvfjvtakpjvabym zkcscbpaoqc
kc fknpvfomljvjscvHfknvBarsjpxvAjvufpvbmjvbmuvplysvfv.ckgvhattaylqj
zkmoqc vjmvrlcppvusfjvjscvym abrvHfknvBarsjpv arsjv cfbxvJscv mmbvufp
mbvjscvufbc:vcfysvbarsjvjsckcvufpvfvqmbrckvabjck.fqvmtvhfknbcppxvFbhvA
bmuvlbhckpjmmhvjmvpm cvpqarsjvhcrkccvfjvqcfpjvjscvkcfpmbvmtvjscvtcfkvmt
jscvqajjqcvLzzckumkqhvzcmzqcvtmkvjscvhfknxvAvumbhckchv.frlcqgvusfjvtmlq
.aqqfabgvajv arsjvocvjsfjvjscv mkqmynpvhahvlbhckvjscvbcuv mmbxvAvtcqj
zkcjjgvplkcvbmuvjsfjv gvpcymbhvsgzmjscpapvufpvfqqvukmbrxvJscvLzzckumkqh
zcmzqcv arsjvmbycvsf.cvoccbvjscvtf.mlkchvfkapjmykfyg,vfbhvjscv mkqmynp
jscakv cysfbayfqvpck.fbjp:voljvjsfjvsfhvqmbrvpabycvzfppchvfufgxvJscvjum
pzcyacpvjsfjvsfhvkcplqjchvtkm vjscvc.mqljambvmtv fbvuckcvpqahabrvhmub
jmufkhp,vmkvsfhvfqkcfhgvfkka.chvfj,vfbvfqjmrcjsckvbcuvkcqfjambpsazxvJsc
Cqma,vqancvjscvYfkqm.arbfbvnabrp,vsfhvhcyfgchvjmvfv ckcvocfljatlq
tljaqajgxvJscgvpjaqqvzmppcppchvjscvcfkjsvmbvplttckfbyc:vpabycvjsc
 mkqmynp,vplojckkfbcfbvtmkvabbl ckfoqcvrcbckfjambp,vsfhvym cvfjvqfpjvjm
tabhvjscvhfgqajvplktfycvabjmqckfoqcxvFbhvjscv mkqmynpv fhcvjscak
rfk cbjp,vAvabtckkch,vfbhv fabjfabchvjsc vabvjscakvsfoajlfqvbcchp,
zcksfzpvjskmlrsvjscvplk.a.fqvmtvfbvmqhvsfoajvmtvpck.aycxvJscgvhahvajvfp
fvpjfbhabrvsmkpcvzfupvuajsvsapvtmmj,vmkvfpvfv fbvcbimgpvnaqqabrvfba fqp
abvpzmkj:vocyflpcvfbyacbjvfbhvhczfkjchvbcycppajacpvsfhva zkcppchvajvmb
jscvmkrfbap xvOlj,vyqcfkqg,vjscvmqhvmkhckvufpvfqkcfhgvabvzfkjvkc.ckpchx
JscvBc cpapvmtvjscvhcqayfjcvmbcpvufpvykcczabrvmbvfzfycxvFrcpvfrm,
jsmlpfbhpvmtvrcbckfjambpvfrm,v fbvsfhvjsklpjvsapvokmjsckv fbvmljvmtvjsc
cfpcvfbhvjscvplbpsabcxvFbhvbmuvjsfjvokmjsckvufpvym abrvofyn—ysfbrch!
FqkcfhgvjscvCqmavsfhvocrlbvjmvqcfkbvmbcvmqhvqcppmbvfbcuxvJscgvuckc
ocym abrvkcfydlfabjchvuajsvTcfkxvFbhvplhhcbqgvjsckcvyf cvabjmv gvscfh
jscv c mkgvmtvjscv cfjvAvsfhvpccbvabvjscvLbhckumkqhxvAjvpcc chvmhhvsmu
ajvtqmfjchvabjmv gv abh:vbmjvpjakkchvlzvfpvajvuckcvogvjscvylkkcbjvmtv g
 chajfjambp,voljvym abrvabvfq mpjvqancvfvdlcpjambvtkm vmljpahcxvAvjkach
jmvkcyfqqvjscvtmk vmtvajxvAvsfhvfv.frlcvpcbpcvmtvpm cjsabrvtf aqafk,
oljvAvymlqhvbmjvjcqqvusfjvajvufpvfjvjscvja cx

“Pjaqq,vsmuc.ckvscqzqcppvjscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvabvjscvzkcpcbycvmtvjscak
 gpjckamlpvTcfk,vAvufpvhattckcbjqgvymbpjajljchxvAvyf cvmljvmtvjsapvfrc
mtvmlkp,vjsapvkazcvzka cvmtvjscvsl fbvkfyc,vuscbvTcfkvhmcpvbmjvzfkfqgpc
fbhv gpjckgvsfpvqmpjvajpvjckkmkpxvAvfjvqcfpjvumlqhvhctcbhv gpcqtx
UajsmljvtlkjsckvhcqfgvAvhcjck abchvjmv fncv gpcqtvfk pvfbhvfvtfpjbcpp
usckcvAv arsjvpqcczxvUajsvjsfjvkctlrcvfpvfvofpc,vAvymlqhvtfycvjsap
pjkfbrcvumkqhvuajsvpm cvmtvjsfjvymbtahcbycvAvsfhvqmpjvabvkcfqapabrvjm
usfjvykcfjlkcpvbarsjvogvbarsjvAvqfgvcezmpchxvAvtcqjvAvymlqhvbc.ckvpqccz
frfabvlbjaqv gvochvufpvpcylkcvtkm vjsc xvAvpslhhckchvuajsvsmkkmkvjm
jsabnvsmuvjscgv lpjvfqkcfhgvsf.cvcef abchv cx

“Avufbhckchvhlkabrvjscvftjckbmmbvfqmbrvjscv.fqqcgvmtvjscvJsf cp,volj
tmlbhvbmjsabrvjsfjvym  cbhchvajpcqtvjmv gv abhvfpvabfyycppaoqcxvFqqvjsc
olaqhabrpvfbhvjkccpvpcc chvcfpaqgvzkfyjayfoqcvjmvplysvhcejckmlp
yqa ockpvfpvjscv mkqmynp,vjmvilhrcvogvjscakvucqqp,v lpjvocxvJscbvjsc
jfqqvzabbfyqcpvmtvjscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfabvfbhvjscvzmqapschvrqcf 
mtvajpvufqqpvyf cvofynvjmv gv c mkg;vfbhvabvjscvc.cbabr,vjfnabrvUccbf
qancvfvysaqhvlzmbv gvpsmlqhck,vAvucbjvlzvjscvsaqqpvjmufkhpvjsc
pmljs-ucpjxvJscvhapjfbyc,vAvsfhvkcynmbch,vufpvpc.cbvmkvcarsjv aqcp,volj
ajv lpjvsf.cvoccbvbcfkckvcarsjccbxvAvsfhvtakpjvpccbvjscvzqfycvmbvf
 mapjvftjckbmmbvuscbvhapjfbycpvfkcvhcyczja.cqgvha abapschxvAbvfhhajamb,
jscvsccqvmtvmbcvmtv gvpsmcpvufpvqmmpc,vfbhvfvbfaqvufpvumknabrvjskmlrs
jscvpmqc—jscgvuckcvym tmkjfoqcvmqhvpsmcpvAvumkcvfomljvabhmmkp—pmvjsfjvA
ufpvqf cxvFbhvajvufpvfqkcfhgvqmbrvzfpjvplbpcjvuscbvAvyf cvabvparsjvmt
jscvzfqfyc,vpaqsmlcjjchvoqfynvfrfabpjvjscvzfqcvgcqqmuvmtvjscvpngx

“UccbfvsfhvoccbvslrcqgvhcqarsjchvuscbvAvocrfbvjmvyfkkgvsck,voljvftjckvf
usaqcvpscvhcpakchv cvjmvqcjvsckvhmub,vfbhvkfbvfqmbrvogvjscvpahcvmtv c,
myyfpambfqqgvhfkjabrvmttvmbvcajsckvsfbhvjmvzaynvtqmuckpvjmvpjaynvabv g
zmyncjpxv gvzmyncjpvsfhvfqufgpvzlwwqchvUccbf,voljvfjvjscvqfpjvpscvsfh
ymbyqlhchvjsfjvjscgvuckcvfbvcyycbjkayvnabhvmtv.fpcpvtmkvtqmkfq
hcymkfjambxvFjvqcfpjvpscvljaqapchvjsc vtmkvjsfjvzlkzmpcxvFbhvjsfj
kc abhpv c!vAbvysfbrabrv gvifyncjvAvtmlbh…”

_JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvzflpch,vzljvsapvsfbhvabjmvsapvzmyncj,vfbhvpaqcbjqg
zqfychvjumvuajsckchvtqmuckp,vbmjvlbqancv.ckgvqfkrcvusajcv fqqmup,vlzmb
jscvqajjqcvjfoqcxvJscbvscvkcpl chvsapvbfkkfja.cx_

“Fpvjscvslpsvmtvc.cbabrvykczjvm.ckvjscvumkqhvfbhvucvzkmycchchvm.ckvjsc
saqqvykcpjvjmufkhpvUa oqchmb,vUccbfvrkcuvjakchvfbhvufbjchvjmvkcjlkbvjm
jscvsmlpcvmtvrkcgvpjmbcxvOljvAvzmabjchvmljvjscvhapjfbjvzabbfyqcpvmtvjsc
ZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfabvjmvsck,vfbhvymbjka.chvjmv fncvsckvlbhckpjfbh
jsfjvucvuckcvpccnabrvfvkctlrcvjsckcvtkm vsckvTcfkxvGmlvnbmuvjsfjvrkcfj
zflpcvjsfjvym cpvlzmbvjsabrpvoctmkcvjscvhlpn?vC.cbvjscvokccwcvpjmzpvab
jscvjkccpxvJmv cvjsckcvapvfqufgpvfbvfakvmtvcezcyjfjambvfomljvjsfj
c.cbabrvpjaqqbcppxvJscvpngvufpvyqcfk,vkc mjc,vfbhvc zjgvpf.cvtmkvfvtcu
smkawmbjfqvofkpvtfkvhmubvabvjscvplbpcjxvUcqq,vjsfjvbarsjvjsc
cezcyjfjambvjmmnvjscvymqmlkvmtv gvtcfkpxvAbvjsfjvhfknqabrvyfq v g
pcbpcpvpcc chvzkcjckbfjlkfqqgvpsfkzcbchxvAvtfbyachvAvymlqhvc.cbvtccq
jscvsmqqmubcppvmtvjscvrkmlbhvocbcfjsv gvtccj:vymlqh,vabhcch,vfq mpjvpcc
jskmlrsvajvjscv mkqmynpvmbvjscakvfbj-saqqvrmabrvsajsckvfbhvjsajsckvfbh
ufajabrvtmkvjscvhfknxvAbv gvceyajc cbjvAvtfbyachvjsfjvjscgvumlqh
kcyca.cv gvab.fpambvmtvjscakvolkkmupvfpvfvhcyqfkfjambvmtvufkxvFbhvusg
sfhvjscgvjfncbv gvJa cv fysabc?

“Pmvucvucbjvmbvabvjscvdlacj,vfbhvjscvjuaqarsjvhcczcbchvabjmvbarsjxvJsc
yqcfkvoqlcvmtvjscvhapjfbycvtfhch,vfbhvmbcvpjfkvftjckvfbmjsckvyf cvmljx
Jscvrkmlbhvrkcuvha vfbhvjscvjkccpvoqfynxvUccbf’pvtcfkpvfbhvsckvtfjarlc
rkcuvlzmbvsckxvAvjmmnvsckvabv gvfk pvfbhvjfqnchvjmvsckvfbhvyfkcppch
sckxvJscb,vfpvjscvhfknbcppvrkcuvhcczck,vpscvzljvsckvfk pvkmlbhv gvbcyn,
fbh,vyqmpabrvsckvcgcp,vjarsjqgvzkcppchvsckvtfycvfrfabpjv gvpsmlqhckxvPm
ucvucbjvhmubvfvqmbrvpqmzcvabjmvfv.fqqcg,vfbhvjsckcvabvjscvha bcppvA
fq mpjvufqnchvabjmvfvqajjqcvka.ckxvJsapvAvufhch,vfbhvucbjvlzvjsc
mzzmpajcvpahcvmtvjscv.fqqcg,vzfpjvfvbl ockvmtvpqcczabrvsmlpcp,vfbhvogvf
pjfjlc—fvTflb,vmkvpm cvplysvtarlkc,v_ ablp_vjscvscfhxvSckcvjmmvuckc
fyfyafpxvPmvtfkvAvsfhvpccbvbmjsabrvmtvjscv mkqmynp,voljvajvufpvgcj
cfkqgvabvjscvbarsj,vfbhvjscvhfknckvsmlkpvoctmkcvjscvmqhv mmbvkmpcvuckc
pjaqqvjmvym cx

“Tkm vjscvokmuvmtvjscvbcejvsaqqvAvpfuvfvjsaynvummhvpzkcfhabrvuahcvfbh
oqfynvoctmkcv cxvAvscpajfjchvfjvjsapxvAvymlqhvpccvbmvcbhvjmvaj,vcajsck
jmvjscvkarsjvmkvjscvqctjxvTccqabrvjakch— gvtccj,vabvzfkjaylqfk,vuckc
.ckgvpmkc—AvyfkctlqqgvqmuckchvUccbfvtkm v gvpsmlqhckvfpvAvsfqjch,vfbh
pfjvhmubvlzmbvjscvjlktxvAvymlqhvbmvqmbrckvpccvjscvZfqfycvmtvRkccb
Zmkycqfab,vfbhvAvufpvabvhmlojvmtv gvhakcyjambxvAvqmmnchvabjmvjsc
jsaynbcppvmtvjscvummhvfbhvjsmlrsjvmtvusfjvajv arsjvsahcxvLbhckvjsfj
hcbpcvjfbrqcvmtvokfbyscpvmbcvumlqhvocvmljvmtvparsjvmtvjscvpjfkpxvC.cb
uckcvjsckcvbmvmjsckvqlknabrvhfbrck—fvhfbrckvAvhahvbmjvyfkcvjmvqcjv g
a frabfjambvqmmpcvlzmb—jsckcvumlqhvpjaqqvocvfqqvjscvkmmjpvjmvpjl oqc
m.ckvfbhvjscvjkcc-omqcpvjmvpjkancvfrfabpjxvAvufpv.ckgvjakch,vjmm,vftjck
jscvceyajc cbjpvmtvjscvhfg;vpmvAvhcyahchvjsfjvAvumlqhvbmjvtfycvaj,volj
umlqhvzfppvjscvbarsjvlzmbvjscvmzcbvsaqqx

“Uccbf,vAvufpvrqfhvjmvtabh,vufpvtfpjvfpqcczxvAvyfkctlqqgvukfzzchvsckvab
 gvifyncj,vfbhvpfjvhmubvocpahcvsckvjmvufajvtmkvjscv mmbkapcxvJsc
saqqpahcvufpvdlacjvfbhvhcpckjch,voljvtkm vjscvoqfynvmtvjscvummhvjsckc
yf cvbmuvfbhvjscbvfvpjakvmtvqa.abrvjsabrpxvFom.cv cvpsmbcvjscvpjfkp,
tmkvjscvbarsjvufpv.ckgvyqcfkxvAvtcqjvfvyckjfabvpcbpcvmtvtkacbhqg
ym tmkjvabvjscakvjuabnqabrxvFqqvjscvmqhvymbpjcqqfjambpvsfhvrmbcvtkm 
jscvpng,vsmuc.ck:vjsfjvpqmuv m.c cbjvusaysvapva zckyczjaoqcvabvf
slbhkchvsl fbvqatcja cp,vsfhvqmbrvpabycvkcfkkfbrchvjsc vabvlbtf aqafk
rkmlzabrpxvOljvjscv aqngvUfg,vajvpcc chvjmv c,vufpvpjaqqvjscvpf c
jfjjckchvpjkcf ckvmtvpjfk-hlpjvfpvmtvgmkcxvPmljsufkhv(fpvAvilhrchvaj)
ufpvfv.ckgvokarsjvkchvpjfkvjsfjvufpvbcuvjmv c;vajvufpvc.cbv mkc
pzqcbhahvjsfbvmlkvmubvrkccbvPakalpxvFbhvf ahvfqqvjscpcvpyabjaqqfjabr
zmabjpvmtvqarsjvmbcvokarsjvzqfbcjvpsmbcvnabhqgvfbhvpjcfhaqgvqancvjsc
tfycvmtvfbvmqhvtkacbhx

“Qmmnabrvfjvjscpcvpjfkpvplhhcbqgvhufktchv gvmubvjkmloqcpvfbhvfqqvjsc
rkf.ajacpvmtvjckkcpjkafqvqatcxvAvjsmlrsjvmtvjscakvlbtfjsm foqc
hapjfbyc,vfbhvjscvpqmuvabc.ajfoqcvhkatjvmtvjscakv m.c cbjpvmljvmtvjsc
lbnbmubvzfpjvabjmvjscvlbnbmubvtljlkcxvAvjsmlrsjvmtvjscvrkcfj
zkcycppambfqvygyqcvjsfjvjscvzmqcvmtvjscvcfkjsvhcpykaocpxvMbqgvtmkjg
ja cpvsfhvjsfjvpaqcbjvkc.mqljambvmyylkkchvhlkabrvfqqvjscvgcfkpvjsfjvA
sfhvjkf.ckpchxvFbhvhlkabrvjscpcvtcuvkc.mqljambpvfqqvjscvfyja.ajg,vfqq
jscvjkfhajambp,vjscvym zqcevmkrfbapfjambp,vjscvbfjambp,vqfbrlfrcp,
qajckfjlkcp,vfpzakfjambp,vc.cbvjscv ckcv c mkgvmtv fbvfpvAvnbcuvsa ,
sfhvoccbvpuczjvmljvmtvceapjcbycxvAbpjcfhvuckcvjscpcvtkfaqvykcfjlkcpvusm
sfhvtmkrmjjcbvjscakvsarsvfbycpjkg,vfbhvjscvusajcvJsabrpvmtvusaysvAvucbj
abvjckkmkxvJscbvAvjsmlrsjvmtvjscvRkcfjvTcfkvjsfjvufpvocjuccbvjscvjum
pzcyacp,vfbhvtmkvjscvtakpjvja c,vuajsvfvplhhcbvpsa.ck,vyf cvjscvyqcfk
nbmuqchrcvmtvusfjvjscv cfjvAvsfhvpccbv arsjvocxvGcjvajvufpvjmm
smkkaoqc!vAvqmmnchvfjvqajjqcvUccbfvpqcczabrvocpahcv c,vsckvtfycvusajc
fbhvpjfkqancvlbhckvjscvpjfkp,vfbhvtmkjsuajsvhap appchvjscvjsmlrsjx

“JskmlrsvjsfjvqmbrvbarsjvAvscqhv gv abhvmttvjscv mkqmynpvfpvucqqvfpvA
ymlqh,vfbhvusaqchvfufgvjscvja cvogvjkgabrvjmvtfbygvAvymlqhvtabhvparbp
mtvjscvmqhvymbpjcqqfjambpvabvjscvbcuvymbtlpambxvJscvpngvnczjv.ckg
yqcfk,vceyczjvtmkvfvsfwgvyqmlhvmkvpmxvBmvhmlojvAvhmwchvfjvja cpxvJscb,
fpv gv.araqvumkcvmb,vyf cvfvtfabjbcppvabvjscvcfpjufkhvpng,vqancvjsc
kctqcyjambvmtvpm cvymqmlkqcppvtakc,vfbhvjscvmqhv mmbvkmpc,vjsabvfbh
zcfnchvfbhvusajcxvFbhvyqmpcvocsabh,vfbhvm.ckjfnabrvaj,vfbhvm.cktqmuabr
aj,vjscvhfubvyf c,vzfqcvfjvtakpj,vfbhvjscbvrkmuabrvzabnvfbhvufk xvBm
 mkqmynpvsfhvfzzkmfyschvlpxvAbhcch,vAvsfhvpccbvbmbcvlzmbvjscvsaqqvjsfj
barsjxvFbhvabvjscvymbtahcbycvmtvkcbcuchvhfgvajvfq mpjvpcc chvjmv cvjsfj
 gvtcfkvsfhvoccbvlbkcfpmbfoqcxvAvpjmmhvlzvfbhvtmlbhv gvtmmjvuajsvjsc
qmmpcvsccqvpumqqcbvfjvjscvfbnqcvfbhvzfabtlqvlbhckvjscvsccq;vpmvAvpfj
hmubvfrfab,vjmmnvmttv gvpsmcp,vfbhvtqlbrvjsc vfufgx

“AvfufncbchvUccbf,vfbhvucvucbjvhmubvabjmvjscvummh,vbmuvrkccbvfbh
zqcfpfbjvabpjcfhvmtvoqfynvfbhvtmkoahhabrxvUcvtmlbhvpm cvtklajvusckcuajs
jmvokcfnvmlkvtfpjxvUcvpmmbv cjvmjsckpvmtvjscvhfabjgvmbcp,vqflrsabrvfbh
hfbyabrvabvjscvplbqarsjvfpvjsmlrsvjsckcvufpvbmvplysvjsabrvabvbfjlkcvfp
jscvbarsjxvFbhvjscbvAvjsmlrsjvmbycv mkcvmtvjscv cfjvjsfjvAvsfhvpccbxvA
tcqjvfpplkchvbmuvmtvusfjvajvufp,vfbhvtkm vjscvomjjm vmtv gvscfkjvA
zajachvjsapvqfpjvtccoqcvkaqqvtkm vjscvrkcfjvtqmmhvmtvsl fbajgxvYqcfkqg,
fjvpm cvja cvabvjscvQmbr-Frmvmtvsl fbvhcyfgvjscv mkqmynp’vtmmhvsfhvklb
psmkjxvZmppaoqgvjscgvsfhvqa.chvmbvkfjpvfbhvplys-qancv.ck abxvC.cbvbmu
 fbvapvtfkvqcppvhapyka abfjabrvfbhvceyqlpa.cvabvsapvtmmhvjsfbvsc
ufp—tfkvqcppvjsfbvfbgv mbncgxvSapvzkcilhaycvfrfabpjvsl fbvtqcpsvapvbm
hccz-pcfjchvabpjabyjxvFbhvpmvjscpcvabsl fbvpmbpvmtv cb——!vAvjkachvjm
qmmnvfjvjscvjsabrvabvfvpyacbjatayvpzakajxvFtjckvfqq,vjscgvuckcvqcpp
sl fbvfbhv mkcvkc mjcvjsfbvmlkvyfbbaofqvfbycpjmkpvmtvjskccvmkvtmlk
jsmlpfbhvgcfkpvfrmxvFbhvjscvabjcqqarcbycvjsfjvumlqhvsf.cv fhcvjsap
pjfjcvmtvjsabrpvfvjmk cbjvsfhvrmbcxvUsgvpsmlqhvAvjkmloqcv gpcqt?vJscpc
Cqmavuckcv ckcvtfjjchvyfjjqc,vusaysvjscvfbj-qancv mkqmynpvzkcpck.chvfbh
zkcgchvlzmb—zkmofoqgvpfuvjmvjscvokcchabrvmtxvFbhvjsckcvufpvUccbf
hfbyabrvfjv gvpahc!

“JscbvAvjkachvjmvzkcpck.cv gpcqtvtkm vjscvsmkkmkvjsfjvufpvym abrvlzmb
 c,vogvkcrfkhabrvajvfpvfvkarmkmlpvzlbaps cbjvmtvsl fbvpcqtapsbcppxv fb
sfhvoccbvymbjcbjvjmvqa.cvabvcfpcvfbhvhcqarsjvlzmbvjscvqfomlkpvmtvsap
tcqqmu- fb,vsfhvjfncbvBcycppajgvfpvsapvufjysumkhvfbhvceylpc,vfbhvabvjsc
tlqqbcppvmtvja cvBcycppajgvsfhvym cvsm cvjmvsa xvAvc.cbvjkachvf
Yfkqgqc-qancvpymkbvmtvjsapvukcjyschvfkapjmykfygvabvhcyfgxvOljvjsap
fjjajlhcvmtv abhvufpva zmppaoqcxvSmuc.ckvrkcfjvjscakvabjcqqcyjlfq
hcrkfhfjamb,vjscvCqmavsfhvnczjvjmmv lysvmtvjscvsl fbvtmk vbmjvjmvyqfa 
 gvpg zfjsg,vfbhvjmv fncv cvzcktmkycvfvpsfkckvabvjscakvhcrkfhfjambvfbh
jscakvTcfkx

“Avsfhvfjvjsfjvja cv.ckgv.frlcvahcfpvfpvjmvjscvymlkpcvAvpsmlqhvzlkplcx
 gvtakpjvufpvjmvpcylkcvpm cvpftcvzqfycvmtvkctlrc,vfbhvjmv fncv gpcqt
plysvfk pvmtv cjfqvmkvpjmbcvfpvAvymlqhvymbjka.cxvJsfjvbcycppajgvufp
a  chafjcxvAbvjscvbcejvzqfyc,vAvsmzchvjmvzkmylkcvpm cv cfbpvmtvtakc,vpm
jsfjvAvpsmlqhvsf.cvjscvucfzmbvmtvfvjmkysvfjvsfbh,vtmkvbmjsabr,vAvnbcu,
umlqhvocv mkcvcttayacbjvfrfabpjvjscpcv mkqmynpxvJscbvAvufbjchvjm
fkkfbrcvpm cvymbjka.fbycvjmvokcfnvmzcbvjscvhmmkpvmtvokmbwcvlbhckvjsc
UsajcvPzsabexvAvsfhvabv abhvfvofjjckabrvkf xvAvsfhvfvzckplfpambvjsfjvat
Avymlqhvcbjckvjsmpcvhmmkpvfbhvyfkkgvfvoqfwcvmtvqarsjvoctmkcv cvAvpsmlqh
hapym.ckvjscvJa cv fysabcvfbhvcpyfzcxvAvymlqhvbmjva frabcvjscv mkqmynp
uckcvpjkmbrvcbmlrsvjmv m.cvajvtfkvfufgxvUccbfvAvsfhvkcpmq.chvjmvokabr
uajsv cvjmvmlkvmubvja cxvFbhvjlkbabrvplysvpysc cpvm.ckvabv gv abhvA
zlkplchvmlkvufgvjmufkhpvjscvolaqhabrvusaysv gvtfbygvsfhvysmpcbvfpvmlk
hucqqabrx



vEA


vJscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfab

“AvtmlbhvjscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfab,vuscbvucvfzzkmfyschvajvfomlj
bmmb,vhcpckjchvfbhvtfqqabrvabjmvklabxvMbqgvkfrrchv.cpjarcpvmtvrqfpp
kc fabchvabvajpvuabhmup,vfbhvrkcfjvpsccjpvmtvjscvrkccbvtfyabrvsfh
tfqqcbvfufgvtkm vjscvymkkmhchv cjfqqayvtkf cumknxvAjvqfgv.ckgvsarsvlzmb
fvjlktgvhmub,vfbhvqmmnabrvbmkjs-cfpjufkhvoctmkcvAvcbjckchvaj,vAvufp
plkzkapchvjmvpccvfvqfkrcvcpjlfkg,vmkvc.cbvykccn,vusckcvAvilhrch
UfbhpumkjsvfbhvOfjjckpcfv lpjvmbycvsf.cvoccbxvAvjsmlrsjvjscb—jsmlrsvA
bc.ckvtmqqmuchvlzvjscvjsmlrsj—mtvusfjv arsjvsf.cvsfzzcbch,vmkv arsjvoc
sfzzcbabr,vjmvjscvqa.abrvjsabrpvabvjscvpcfx

“Jscv fjckafqvmtvjscvZfqfycvzkm.chvmbvcef abfjambvjmvocvabhcch
zmkycqfab,vfbhvfqmbrvjscvtfycvmtvajvAvpfuvfbvabpykazjambvabvpm c
lbnbmubvysfkfyjckxvAvjsmlrsj,vkfjsckvtmmqapsqg,vjsfjvUccbfv arsjvscqz
 cvjmvabjckzkcjvjsap,voljvAvmbqgvqcfkbjvjsfjvjscvofkcvahcfvmtvukajabr
sfhvbc.ckvcbjckchvsckvscfhxvPscvfqufgpvpcc chvjmv c,vAvtfbyg,v mkc
sl fbvjsfbvpscvufp,vzcksfzpvocyflpcvsckvfttcyjambvufpvpmvsl fbx

“Uajsabvjscvoarv.fq.cpvmtvjscvhmmk—usaysvuckcvmzcbvfbhvokmncb—ucvtmlbh,
abpjcfhvmtvjscvylpjm fkgvsfqq,vfvqmbrvrfqqckgvqajvogv fbgvpahcvuabhmupx
FjvjscvtakpjvrqfbycvAvufpvkc abhchvmtvfv lpcl xvJscvjaqchvtqmmkvufp
jsaynvuajsvhlpj,vfbhvfvkc fknfoqcvfkkfgvmtv apycqqfbcmlpvmoicyjpvufp
pskmlhchvabvjscvpf cvrkcgvym.ckabrxvJscbvAvzckyca.ch,vpjfbhabrvpjkfbrc
fbhvrflbjvabvjscvycbjkcvmtvjscvsfqq,vusfjvufpvyqcfkqgvjscvqmuckvzfkjvmt
fvslrcvpncqcjmbxvAvkcymrbapchvogvjscvmoqadlcvtccjvjsfjvajvufpvpm c
cejabyjvykcfjlkcvftjckvjscvtfpsambvmtvjscv crfjsckal xvJscvpnlqqvfbh
jscvlzzckvombcpvqfgvocpahcvajvabvjscvjsaynvhlpj,vfbhvabvmbcvzqfyc,
usckcvkfab-ufjckvsfhvhkmzzchvjskmlrsvfvqcfnvabvjscvkmmt,vjscvjsabr
ajpcqtvsfhvoccbvumkbvfufgxvTlkjsckvabvjscvrfqqckgvufpvjscvslrcvpncqcjmb
ofkkcqvmtvfvOkmbjmpflklpxv gv lpcl vsgzmjscpapvufpvymbtak chxvRmabr
jmufkhpvjscvpahcvAvtmlbhvusfjvfzzcfkchvjmvocvpqmzabrvpscq.cp,vfbh
yqcfkabrvfufgvjscvjsaynvhlpj,vAvtmlbhvjscvmqhvtf aqafkvrqfppvyfpcpvmt
mlkvmubvja cxvOljvjscgv lpjvsf.cvoccbvfak-jarsjvjmvilhrcvtkm vjscvtfak
zkcpck.fjambvmtvpm cvmtvjscakvymbjcbjpx

“Yqcfkqgvucvpjmmhvf mbrvjscvklabpvmtvpm cvqfjjck-hfgvPmljsvNcbpabrjmb!
Sckc,vfzzfkcbjqg,vufpvjscvZfqæmbjmqmrayfqvPcyjamb,vfbhvfv.ckgvpzqcbhah
fkkfgvmtvtmppaqpvajv lpjvsf.cvoccb,vjsmlrsvjscvabc.ajfoqcvzkmycppvmt
hcyfgvjsfjvsfhvoccbvpjf.chvmttvtmkvfvja c,vfbhvsfh,vjskmlrsvjsc
cejabyjambvmtvofyjckafvfbhvtlbra,vqmpjvbabcjg-babcvslbhkchjspvmtvajp
tmkyc,vufpvbc.ckjscqcpp,vuajsvcejkc cvplkcbcppvatvuajsvcejkc cvpqmubcpp
fjvumknvfrfabvlzmbvfqqvajpvjkcfplkcpxvSckcvfbhvjsckcvAvtmlbhvjkfycpvmt
jscvqajjqcvzcmzqcvabvjscvpsfzcvmtvkfkcvtmppaqpvokmncbvjmvzacycpvmk
jskcfhchvabvpjkabrpvlzmbvkcchpxvFbhvjscvyfpcpvsfhvabvpm cvabpjfbycp
occbvomhaqgvkc m.ch—ogvjscv mkqmynp,vfpvAvilhrchxvJscvzqfycvufpv.ckg
paqcbjxvJscvjsaynvhlpjvhcfhcbchvmlkvtmmjpjczpxvUccbf,vusmvsfhvoccb
kmqqabrvfvpcfvlkysabvhmubvjscvpqmzabrvrqfppvmtvfvyfpc,vzkcpcbjqgvyf c,
fpvAvpjfkchvfomljv c,vfbhv.ckgvdlacjqgvjmmnv gvsfbhvfbhvpjmmhvocpahc
 cx

“FbhvfjvtakpjvAvufpvpmv lysvplkzkapchvogvjsapvfbyacbjv mbl cbjvmtvfb
abjcqqcyjlfqvfrcvjsfjvAvrf.cvbmvjsmlrsjvjmvjscvzmppaoaqajacpvaj
zkcpcbjchxvC.cbv gvzkcmyylzfjambvfomljvjscvJa cv fysabcvkcychchvf
qajjqcvtkm v gv abhx

“Jmvilhrcvtkm vjscvpawcvmtvjscvzqfyc,vjsapvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfab
sfhvfvrkcfjvhcfqv mkcvabvajvjsfbvfvRfqqckgvmtvZfqæmbjmqmrg;vzmppaoqg
sapjmkayfqvrfqqckacp;vajv arsjvoc,vc.cbvfvqaokfkg!vJmv c,vfjvqcfpjvab
 gvzkcpcbjvyakyl pjfbycp,vjscpcvumlqhvocv.fpjqgv mkcvabjckcpjabrvjsfb
jsapvpzcyjfyqcvmtvmqh-ja cvrcmqmrgvabvhcyfgxvCezqmkabr,vAvtmlbhvfbmjsck
psmkjvrfqqckgvklbbabrvjkfbp.ckpcqgvjmvjscvtakpjxvJsapvfzzcfkchvjmvoc
hc.mjchvjmv abckfqp,vfbhvjscvparsjvmtvfvoqmynvmtvplqzslkvpcjv gv abh
klbbabrvmbvrlbzmuhckxvOljvAvymlqhvtabhvbmvpfqjzcjkc;vabhcch,vbm
bajkfjcpvmtvfbgvnabhxvHmlojqcppvjscgvsfhvhcqadlcpychvfrcpvfrmxvGcjvjsc
plqzslkvslbrvabv gv abh,vfbhvpcjvlzvfvjkfabvmtvjsabnabrxvFpvtmkvjsc
kcpjvmtvjscvymbjcbjpvmtvjsfjvrfqqckg,vjsmlrsvmbvjscvusmqcvjscgvuckcvjsc
ocpjvzkcpck.chvmtvfqqvAvpfu,vAvsfhvqajjqcvabjckcpjxvAvf vbmvpzcyafqapj
abv abckfqmrg,vfbhvAvucbjvmbvhmubvfv.ckgvklabmlpvfapqcvklbbabrvzfkfqqcq
jmvjscvtakpjvsfqqvAvsfhvcbjckchxvFzzfkcbjqgvjsapvpcyjambvsfhvoccb
hc.mjchvjmvbfjlkfqvsapjmkg,voljvc.ckgjsabrvsfhvqmbrvpabycvzfppchvmljvmt
kcymrbajambxvFvtcuvpska.cqqchvfbhvoqfyncbchv.cpjarcpvmtvusfjvsfhvmbyc
occbvpjlttchvfba fqp,vhcpayyfjchv l  acpvabvifkpvjsfjvsfhvmbycvscqh
pzakaj,vfvokmubvhlpjvmtvhczfkjchvzqfbjp:vjsfjvufpvfqq!vAvufpvpmkkgvtmk
jsfj,vocyflpcvAvpsmlqhvsf.cvoccbvrqfhvjmvjkfycvjscvzfjacbj
kcfhilpj cbjpvogvusaysvjscvymbdlcpjvmtvfba fjchvbfjlkcvsfhvoccb
fjjfabchxvJscbvucvyf cvjmvfvrfqqckgvmtvpa zqgvymqmppfqvzkmzmkjambp,volj
pabrlqfkqgvaqq-qaj,vjscvtqmmkvmtvajvklbbabrvhmubufkhvfjvfvpqarsjvfbrqc
tkm vjscvcbhvfjvusaysvAvcbjckchxvFjvabjck.fqpvusajcvrqmocpvslbrvtkm 
jscvycaqabr— fbgvmtvjsc vykfynchvfbhvp fpsch—usaysvplrrcpjchvjsfj
mkarabfqqgvjscvzqfycvsfhvoccbvfkjatayafqqgvqajxvSckcvAvufpv mkcvabv g
cqc cbj,vtmkvkapabrvmbvcajsckvpahcvmtv cvuckcvjscvslrcvolqnpvmtvoar
 fysabcp,vfqqvrkcfjqgvymkkmhchvfbhv fbgvokmncbvhmub,voljvpm cvpjaqq
tfakqgvym zqcjcxvGmlvnbmuvAvsf.cvfvyckjfabvucfnbcppvtmkv cysfbap ,vfbh
Avufpvabyqabchvjmvqabrckvf mbrvjscpc;vjscv mkcvpmvfpvtmkvjscv mpjvzfkj
jscgvsfhvjscvabjckcpjvmtvzlwwqcp,vfbhvAvymlqhv fncvmbqgvjscv.frlcpj
rlcppcpvfjvusfjvjscgvuckcvtmkxvAvtfbyachvjsfjvatvAvymlqhvpmq.cvjscak
zlwwqcpvAvpsmlqhvtabhv gpcqtvabvzmppcppambvmtvzmuckpvjsfjv arsjvocvmt
lpcvfrfabpjvjscv mkqmynpx

“PlhhcbqgvUccbfvyf cv.ckgvyqmpcvjmv gvpahcxvPmvplhhcbqgvjsfjvpsc
pjfkjqchv cxvSfhvajvbmjvoccbvtmkvsckvAvhmvbmjvjsabnvAvpsmlqhvsf.c
bmjaychvjsfjvjscvtqmmkvmtvjscvrfqqckgvpqmzchvfjvfqqxv[Tmmjbmjc:vAjv fg
oc,vmtvymlkpc,vjsfjvjscvtqmmkvhahvbmjvpqmzc,voljvjsfjvjscv lpcl vufp
olaqjvabjmvjscvpahcvmtvfvsaqqx—CHx]vJscvcbhvAvsfhvym cvabvfjvufpvdlajc
fom.cvrkmlbh,vfbhvufpvqajvogvkfkcvpqaj-qancvuabhmupxvFpvgmlvucbjvhmub
jscvqcbrjs,vjscvrkmlbhvyf cvlzvfrfabpjvjscpcvuabhmup,vlbjaqvfjvqfpj
jsckcvufpvfvzajvqancvjscv‘fkcf‘vmtvfvQmbhmbvsmlpcvoctmkcvcfys,vfbhvmbqg
fvbfkkmuvqabcvmtvhfgqarsjvfjvjscvjmzxvAvucbjvpqmuqgvfqmbr,vzlwwqabr
fomljvjscv fysabcp,vfbhvsfhvoccbvjmmvabjcbjvlzmbvjsc vjmvbmjaycvjsc
rkfhlfqvha abljambvmtvjscvqarsj,vlbjaqvUccbf’pvabykcfpabrvfzzkcscbpambp
hkcuv gvfjjcbjambxvJscbvAvpfuvjsfjvjscvrfqqckgvkfbvhmubvfjvqfpjvabjmvf
jsaynvhfknbcppxvAvscpajfjch,vfbhvjscb,vfpvAvqmmnchvkmlbhv c,vAvpfuvjsfj
jscvhlpjvufpvqcppvfolbhfbjvfbhvajpvplktfycvqcppvc.cbxvTlkjsckvfufg
jmufkhpvjscvha bcpp,vajvfzzcfkchvjmvocvokmncbvogvfvbl ockvmtvp fqq
bfkkmuvtmmjzkabjpxv gvpcbpcvmtvjscva  chafjcvzkcpcbycvmtvjscv mkqmynp
kc.a.chvfjvjsfjxvAvtcqjvjsfjvAvufpvufpjabrv gvja cvabvjscvfyfhc ay
cef abfjambvmtv fysabckgxvAvyfqqchvjmv abhvjsfjvajvufpvfqkcfhgvtfk
fh.fbychvabvjscvftjckbmmb,vfbhvjsfjvAvsfhvpjaqqvbmvucfzmb,vbmvkctlrc,
fbhvbmv cfbpvmtv fnabrvfvtakcxvFbhvjscbvhmubvabvjscvkc mjcvoqfynbcppvmt
jscvrfqqckgvAvscfkhvfvzcylqafkvzfjjckabr,vfbhvjscvpf cvmhhvbmapcpvAvsfh
scfkhvhmubvjscvucqqx

“AvjmmnvUccbf’pvsfbhxvJscb,vpjklynvuajsvfvplhhcbvahcf,vAvqctjvsckvfbh
jlkbchvjmvfv fysabcvtkm vusaysvzkmicyjchvfvqc.ckvbmjvlbqancvjsmpcvabvf
parbfq-omexvYqf ockabrvlzmbvjscvpjfbh,vfbhvrkfpzabrvjsapvqc.ckvabv g
sfbhp,vAvzljvfqqv gvucarsjvlzmbvajvpahcufgpxvPlhhcbqgvUccbf,vhcpckjch
abvjscvycbjkfqvfapqc,vocrfbvjmvusa zckxvAvsfhvilhrchvjscvpjkcbrjsvmt
jscvqc.ckvzkcjjgvymkkcyjqg,vtmkvajvpbfzzchvftjckvfv abljc’pvpjkfab,vfbh
Avkcimabchvsckvuajsvfv fycvabv gvsfbhv mkcvjsfbvplttayacbj,vAvilhrch,
tmkvfbgv mkqmynvpnlqqvAv arsjvcbymlbjckxvFbhvAvqmbrchv.ckgv lysvjmvnaqq
fv mkqmynvmkvpmxv.ckgvabsl fb,vgmlv fgvjsabn,vjmvufbjvjmvrmvnaqqabr
mbc’pvmubvhcpycbhfbjp!vOljvajvufpva zmppaoqc,vpm csmu,vjmvtccqvfbg
sl fbajgvabvjscvjsabrpxvMbqgv gvhapabyqabfjambvjmvqcf.cvUccbf,vfbhvf
zckplfpambvjsfjvatvAvocrfbvjmvpqfncv gvjsakpjvtmkv lkhckv gvJa c
 fysabcv arsjvplttck,vkcpjkfabchv cvtkm vrmabrvpjkfarsjvhmubvjsc
rfqqckgvfbhvnaqqabrvjscvokljcpvAvscfkhx

“Ucqq,v fycvabvmbcvsfbhvfbhvUccbfvabvjscvmjsck,vAvucbjvmljvmtvjsfj
rfqqckgvfbhvabjmvfbmjsckvfbhvpjaqqvqfkrckvmbc,vusaysvfjvjscvtakpj
rqfbycvkc abhchv cvmtvfv aqajfkgvysfzcqvslbrvuajsvjfjjckchvtqfrpxvJsc
okmubvfbhvysfkkchvkfrpvjsfjvslbrvtkm vjscvpahcpvmtvaj,vAvzkcpcbjqg
kcymrbapchvfpvjscvhcyfgabrv.cpjarcpvmtvommnpxvJscgvsfhvqmbrvpabyc
hkmzzchvjmvzacycp,vfbhvc.ckgvpc oqfbycvmtvzkabjvsfhvqctjvjsc xvOljvsckc
fbhvjsckcvuckcvufkzchvomfkhpvfbhvykfynchv cjfqqayvyqfpzpvjsfjvjmqhvjsc
jfqcvucqqvcbmlrsxvSfhvAvoccbvfvqajckfkgv fbvAv arsj,vzcksfzp,vsf.c
 mkfqapchvlzmbvjscvtljaqajgvmtvfqqvf oajambxvOljvfpvajvufp,vjscvjsabr
jsfjvpjklynv cvuajsvnccbcpjvtmkycvufpvjscvcbmk mlpvufpjcvmtvqfomlkvjm
usaysvjsapvpm okcvuaqhckbcppvmtvkmjjabrvzfzckvjcpjatachxvFjvjscvja cvA
uaqqvymbtcppvjsfjvAvjsmlrsjvysactqgvmtvjscv_ZsaqmpmzsayfqvJkfbpfyjambp_
fbhv gvmubvpc.cbjccbvzfzckpvlzmbvzsgpayfqvmzjaypx

“Jscb,vrmabrvlzvfvokmfhvpjfakyfpc,vucvyf cvjmvusfjv fgvmbycvsf.cvoccbvf
rfqqckgvmtvjcysbayfqvysc apjkgxvFbhvsckcvAvsfhvbmjvfvqajjqcvsmzcvmt
lpctlqvhapym.ckacpxvCeyczjvfjvmbcvcbhvusckcvjscvkmmtvsfhvymqqfzpch,
jsapvrfqqckgvufpvucqqvzkcpck.chxvAvucbjvcfrckqgvjmvc.ckgvlbokmncbvyfpcx
Fbhvfjvqfpj,vabvmbcvmtvjscvkcfqqgvfak-jarsjvyfpcp,vAvtmlbhvfvomevmt
 fjyscpxv.ckgvcfrckqgvAvjkachvjsc xvJscgvuckcvzcktcyjqgvrmmhxvJscgvuckc
bmjvc.cbvhf zxvAvjlkbchvjmvUccbfxv‘Hfbyc,’vAvykachvjmvsckvabvsckvmub
jmbrlcxvTmkvbmuvAvsfhvfvucfzmbvabhcchvfrfabpjvjscvsmkkaoqcvykcfjlkcpvuc
tcfkchxvFbhvpm,vabvjsfjvhckcqayjv lpcl ,vlzmbvjscvjsaynvpmtjvyfkzcjabr
mtvhlpj,vjmvUccbf’pvslrcvhcqarsj,vAvpmqc bqgvzcktmk chvfvnabhvmt
ym zmpajcvhfbyc,vusapjqabrv_JscvQfbhvmtvjscvQcfq_vfpvysccktlqqgvfpvA
ymlqhxvAbvzfkjvajvufpvfv mhcpjv_yfbyfb_,vabvzfkjvfvpjczvhfbyc,vabvzfkj
fvpnakjvhfbycv(pmvtfkvfpv gvjfaq-ymfjvzck ajjch),vfbhvabvzfkjvmkarabfqx
TmkvAvf vbfjlkfqqgvab.cbja.c,vfpvgmlvnbmux

“Bmu,vAvpjaqqvjsabnvjsfjvtmkvjsapvomevmtv fjyscpvjmvsf.cvcpyfzchvjsc
ucfkvmtvja cvtmkva  c mkafqvgcfkpvufpvfv mpjvpjkfbrc,vfpvtmkv cvajvufp
fv mpjvtmkjlbfjc,vjsabrxvGcj,vmhhqgvcbmlrs,vAvtmlbhvfvtfkvlbqancqack
plopjfbyc,vfbhvjsfjvufpvyf zsmkxvAvtmlbhvajvabvfvpcfqchvifk,vjsfjvog
ysfbyc,vAvplzzmpc,vsfhvoccbvkcfqqgvsck cjayfqqgvpcfqchxvAvtfbyachvfj
takpjvjsfjvajvufpvzfkfttabvufe,vfbhvp fpschvjscvrqfppvfyymkhabrqgxvOlj
jscvmhmlkvmtvyf zsmkvufpvlb apjfnfoqcxvAbvjscvlba.ckpfqvhcyfgvjsap
.mqfjaqcvplopjfbycvsfhvysfbychvjmvplk.a.c,vzcksfzpvjskmlrsv fbg
jsmlpfbhpvmtvycbjlkacpxvAjvkc abhchv cvmtvfvpczafvzfabjabrvAvsfhvmbyc
pccbvhmbcvtkm vjscvabnvmtvfvtmppaqvOcqc bajcvjsfjv lpjvsf.cvzckapsch
fbhvocym cvtmppaqapchv aqqambpvmtvgcfkpvfrmxvAvufpvfomljvjmvjskmuvaj
fufg,voljvAvkc c ockchvjsfjvajvufpvabtqf  foqcvfbhvolkbjvuajsvfvrmmh
okarsjvtqf c—ufp,vabvtfyj,vfbvceycqqcbjvyfbhqc—fbhvAvzljvajvabv g
zmyncjxvAvtmlbhvbmvcezqmpa.cp,vsmuc.ck,vbmkvfbgv cfbpvmtvokcfnabrvhmub
jscvokmbwcvhmmkpxvFpvgcjv gvakmbvykmuofkvufpvjscv mpjvscqztlqvjsabrvA
sfhvysfbychvlzmbxvBc.ckjscqcppvAvqctjvjsfjvrfqqckgvrkcfjqgvcqfjchx

“AvyfbbmjvjcqqvgmlvfqqvjscvpjmkgvmtvjsfjvqmbrvftjckbmmbxvAjvumlqh
kcdlakcvfvrkcfjvcttmkjvmtv c mkgvjmvkcyfqqv gvcezqmkfjambpvabvfjvfqq
jscvzkmzckvmkhckxvAvkc c ockvfvqmbrvrfqqckgvmtvklpjabrvpjfbhpvmtvfk p,
fbhvsmuvAvscpajfjchvocjuccbv gvykmuofkvfbhvfvsfjyscjvmkvfvpumkhxvA
ymlqhvbmjvyfkkgvomjs,vsmuc.ck,vfbhv gvofkvmtvakmbvzkm apchvocpjvfrfabpj
jscvokmbwcvrfjcpxvJsckcvuckcvbl ockpvmtvrlbp,vzapjmqp,vfbhvkatqcpxvJsc
 mpjvuckcv fppcpvmtvklpj,voljv fbgvuckcvmtvpm cvbcuv cjfq,vfbhvpjaqq
tfakqgvpmlbhxvOljvfbgvyfkjkahrcpvmkvzmuhckvjsckcv fgvmbycvsf.cvoccbvsfh
kmjjchvabjmvhlpjxvMbcvymkbckvAvpfuvufpvysfkkchvfbhvpsfjjckch;vzcksfzp,
Avjsmlrsj,vogvfbvcezqmpambvf mbrvjscvpzcya cbpxvAbvfbmjsckvzqfycvufpvf
.fpjvfkkfgvmtvahmqp—Zmqgbcpafb,v ceayfb,vRkcyafb,vZsœbayafb,vc.ckg
ymlbjkgvmbvcfkjs,vAvpsmlqhvjsabnxvFbhvsckc,vgacqhabrvjmvfbvakkcpapjaoqc
a zlqpc,vAvukmjcv gvbf cvlzmbvjscvbmpcvmtvfvpjcfjajcv mbpjckvtkm vPmljs
F ckayfvjsfjvzfkjaylqfkqgvjmmnv gvtfbygx

“Fpvjscvc.cbabrvhkcuvmb,v gvabjckcpjvufbchxvAvucbjvjskmlrsvrfqqckg
ftjckvrfqqckg,vhlpjg,vpaqcbj,vmtjcbvklabmlp,vjscvcesaoajpvpm cja cp
 ckcvscfzpvmtvklpjvfbhvqarbajc,vpm cja cpvtkcpsckxvAbvmbcvzqfycvA
plhhcbqgvtmlbhv gpcqtvbcfkvjscv mhcqvmtvfvjabv abc,vfbhvjscbvogvjsc
 ckcpjvfyyahcbjvAvhapym.ckch,vabvfbvfak-jarsjvyfpc,vjumvhgbf ajc
yfkjkahrcp!vAvpsmljchv‘Clkcnf!’vfbhvp fpschvjscvyfpcvuajsvimgxvJscb
yf cvfvhmlojxvAvscpajfjchxvJscb,vpcqcyjabrvfvqajjqcvpahcvrfqqckg,vA
 fhcv gvcppfgxvAvbc.ckvtcqjvplysvfvhapfzzmabj cbjvfpvAvhahvabvufajabr
ta.c,vjcb,vtatjccbv abljcpvtmkvfbvcezqmpambvjsfjvbc.ckvyf cxvMtvymlkpc
jscvjsabrpvuckcvhl  acp,vfpvAv arsjvsf.cvrlcppchvtkm vjscakvzkcpcbycxvA
kcfqqgvocqac.cvjsfjvsfhvjscgvbmjvoccbvpm,vAvpsmlqhvsf.cvklpschvmtt
abymbjabcbjqgvfbhvoqmubvPzsabe,vokmbwcvhmmkp,vfbhv(fpvajvzkm.ch)v g
ysfbycpvmtvtabhabrvjscvJa cv fysabc,vfqqvjmrcjsckvabjmvbmb-ceapjcbycx

“Ajvufpvftjckvjsfj,vAvjsabn,vjsfjvucvyf cvjmvfvqajjqcvmzcbvymlkjvuajsab
jscvzfqfycxvAjvufpvjlktch,vfbhvsfhvjskccvtklaj-jkccpxvPmvucvkcpjchvfbh
kctkcpschvmlkpcq.cpxvJmufkhpvplbpcjvAvocrfbvjmvymbpahckvmlkvzmpajambx
Barsjvufpvykcczabrvlzmbvlp,vfbhv gvabfyycppaoqcvsahabr-zqfycvsfhvpjaqq
jmvocvtmlbhxvOljvjsfjvjkmloqchv cv.ckgvqajjqcvbmuxvAvsfhvabv g
zmppcppambvfvjsabrvjsfjvufp,vzcksfzp,vjscvocpjvmtvfqqvhctcbycpvfrfabpj
jscv mkqmynp—Avsfhv fjyscp!vAvsfhvjscvyf zsmkvabv gvzmyncj,vjmm,vatvf
oqfwcvuckcvbcchchxvAjvpcc chvjmv cvjsfjvjscvocpjvjsabrvucvymlqhvhm
umlqhvocvjmvzfppvjscvbarsjvabvjscvmzcb,vzkmjcyjchvogvfvtakcxvAbvjsc
 mkbabrvjsckcvufpvjscvrcjjabrvmtvjscvJa cv fysabcxvJmufkhpvjsfj,vfp
gcj,vAvsfhvmbqgv gvakmbv fycxvOljvbmu,vuajsv gvrkmuabrvnbmuqchrc,vA
tcqjv.ckgvhattckcbjqgvjmufkhpvjsmpcvokmbwcvhmmkpxvLzvjmvjsap,vAvsfh
kctkfabchvtkm vtmkyabrvjsc ,vqfkrcqgvocyflpcvmtvjscv gpjckgvmbvjsc
mjsckvpahcxvJscgvsfhvbc.ckva zkcppchv cvfpvocabrv.ckgvpjkmbr,vfbhvA
smzchvjmvtabhv gvofkvmtvakmbvbmjvfqjmrcjsckvabfhcdlfjcvtmkvjscvumknx



vEAA


vAbvjscvHfknbcpp

“Ucvc ckrchvtkm vjscvZfqfycvusaqcvjscvplbvufpvpjaqqvabvzfkjvfom.cvjsc
smkawmbxvAvufpvhcjck abchvjmvkcfysvjscvUsajcvPzsabevcfkqgvjscvbcej
 mkbabr,vfbhvckcvjscvhlpnvAvzlkzmpchvzlpsabrvjskmlrsvjscvummhpvjsfjvsfh
pjmzzchv cvmbvjscvzkc.amlpvimlkbcgxv gvzqfbvufpvjmvrmvfpvtfkvfp
zmppaoqcvjsfjvbarsj,vfbhvjscb,volaqhabrvfvtakc,vjmvpqcczvabvjsc
zkmjcyjambvmtvajpvrqfkcxvFyymkhabrqg,vfpvucvucbjvfqmbrvAvrfjsckchvfbg
pjaynpvmkvhkachvrkfppvAvpfu,vfbhvzkcpcbjqgvsfhv gvfk pvtlqqvmtvplys
qajjckxvJslpvqmfhch,vmlkvzkmrkcppvufpvpqmuckvjsfbvAvsfhvfbjayazfjch,
fbhvocpahcpvUccbfvufpvjakchxvFbhvA,vfqpm,vocrfbvjmvplttckvtkm 
pqcczabcppvjmm;vpmvjsfjvajvufpvtlqqvbarsjvoctmkcvucvkcfyschvjscvummhx
LzmbvjscvpskloogvsaqqvmtvajpvchrcvUccbfvumlqhvsf.cvpjmzzch,vtcfkabrvjsc
hfknbcppvoctmkcvlp;voljvfvpabrlqfkvpcbpcvmtva zcbhabrvyfqf ajg,vjsfj
psmlqhvabhcchvsf.cvpck.chv cvfpvfvufkbabr,vhkm.cv cvmbufkhxvAvsfhvoccb
uajsmljvpqcczvtmkvfvbarsjvfbhvjumvhfgp,vfbhvAvufpvtc.ckapsvfbh
akkajfoqcxvAvtcqjvpqcczvym abrvlzmbv c,vfbhvjscv mkqmynpvuajsvajx

“Usaqcvucvscpajfjch,vf mbrvjscvoqfynvolpscpvocsabhvlp,vfbhvha vfrfabpj
jscakvoqfynbcpp,vAvpfuvjskccvykmlysabrvtarlkcpxvJsckcvufpvpyklovfbh
qmbrvrkfppvfqqvfomljvlp,vfbhvAvhahvbmjvtccqvpftcvtkm vjscakvabpahamlp
fzzkmfysxvJscvtmkcpj,vAvyfqylqfjch,vufpvkfjsckvqcppvjsfbvfv aqcvfykmppx
Atvucvymlqhvrcjvjskmlrsvajvjmvjscvofkcvsaqqpahc,vjsckc,vfpvajvpcc chvjm
 c,vufpvfbvfqjmrcjsckvpftckvkcpjabr-zqfyc;vAvjsmlrsjvjsfjvuajsv g
 fjyscpvfbhv gvyf zsmkvAvymlqhvymbjka.cvjmvncczv gvzfjsvaqql abfjch
jskmlrsvjscvummhpxvGcjvajvufpvc.ahcbjvjsfjvatvAvufpvjmvtqmlkapsv fjyscp
uajsv gvsfbhpvAvpsmlqhvsf.cvjmvfofbhmbv gvtakcummh;vpm,vkfjsck
kcqlyjfbjqg,vAvzljvajvhmubxvFbhvjscbvajvyf cvabjmv gvscfhvjsfjvAvumlqh
f fwcvmlkvtkacbhpvocsabhvogvqarsjabrvajxvAvufpvjmvhapym.ckvjsc
fjkmyamlpvtmqqgvmtvjsapvzkmycchabr,voljvajvyf cvjmv gv abhvfpvfb
abrcbamlpv m.cvtmkvym.ckabrvmlkvkcjkcfjx

“Avhmb’jvnbmuvatvgmlvsf.cvc.ckvjsmlrsjvusfjvfvkfkcvjsabrvtqf cv lpjvoc
abvjscvfopcbycvmtv fbvfbhvabvfvjc zckfjcvyqa fjcxvJscvplb’pvscfjvap
kfkcqgvpjkmbrvcbmlrsvjmvolkb,vc.cbvuscbvajvapvtmylpchvogvhcuhkmzp,vfp
apvpm cja cpvjscvyfpcvabv mkcvjkmzayfqvhapjkayjpxvQarsjbabrv fgvoqfpj
fbhvoqfyncb,voljvajvkfkcqgvra.cpvkapcvjmvuahcpzkcfhvtakcxvHcyfgabr
.crcjfjambv fgvmyyfpambfqqgvp mlqhckvuajsvjscvscfjvmtvajpvtck cbjfjamb,
oljvjsapvkfkcqgvkcplqjpvabvtqf cxvAbvjsapvhcyfhcbyc,vjmm,vjscvfkjvmt
takc- fnabrvsfhvoccbvtmkrmjjcbvmbvjscvcfkjsxvJscvkchvjmbrlcpvjsfjvucbj
qaynabrvlzv gvscfzvmtvummhvuckcvfbvfqjmrcjsckvbcuvfbhvpjkfbrcvjsabrvjm
Uccbfx

“PscvufbjchvjmvklbvjmvajvfbhvzqfgvuajsvajxvAvocqac.cvpscvumlqhvsf.c
yfpjvsckpcqtvabjmvajvsfhvAvbmjvkcpjkfabchvsckxvOljvAvyflrsjvsckvlz,vfbh
abvpzajcvmtvsckvpjklrrqcp,vzqlbrchvomqhqgvoctmkcv cvabjmvjscvummhxvTmk
fvqajjqcvufgvjscvrqfkcvmtv gvtakcvqajvjscvzfjsxvQmmnabrvofynvzkcpcbjqg,
Avymlqhvpcc,vjskmlrsvjscvykmuhchvpjc p,vjsfjvtkm v gvscfzvmtvpjaynpvjsc
oqfwcvsfhvpzkcfhvjmvpm cvolpscpvfhifycbj,vfbhvfvylk.chvqabcvmtvtakcvufp
ykcczabrvlzvjscvrkfppvmtvjscvsaqqxvAvqflrschvfjvjsfj,vfbhvjlkbchvfrfab
jmvjscvhfknvjkccpvoctmkcv cxvAjvufpv.ckgvoqfyn,vfbhvUccbfvyqlbrvjmv c
ymb.lqpa.cqg,voljvjsckcvufpvpjaqq,vfpv gvcgcpvrkcuvfyylpjm chvjmvjsc
hfknbcpp,vplttayacbjvqarsjvtmkv cvjmvf.mahvjscvpjc pxvM.ckscfhvajvufp
pa zqgvoqfyn,vceyczjvusckcvfvrfzvmtvkc mjcvoqlcvpngvpsmbcvhmubvlzmbvlp
sckcvfbhvjsckcxvAvqajvbmbcvmtv gv fjyscpvocyflpcvAvsfhvbmvsfbhvtkccx
Lzmbv gvqctjvfk vAvyfkkachv gvqajjqcvmbc,vabv gvkarsjvsfbhvAvsfhv g
akmbvofkx

“Tmkvpm cvufgvAvscfkhvbmjsabrvoljvjscvykfynqabrvjuarpvlbhckv gvtccj,
jscvtfabjvklpjqcvmtvjscvokccwcvfom.c,vfbhv gvmubvokcfjsabrvfbhvjsc
jskmovmtvjscvoqmmh-.cppcqpvabv gvcfkpxvJscbvAvpcc chvjmvnbmuvmtvf
zfjjckabrvocsabhv cxvAvzlpschvmbvrka qgxvJscvzfjjckabrvrkcuv mkc
hapjabyj,vfbhvjscbvAvyflrsjvjscvpf cvdlcckvpmlbhvfbhv.maycpvAvsfhvscfkh
abvjscvLbhckumkqhxvJsckcvuckcvc.ahcbjqgvpc.ckfqvmtvjscv mkqmynp,vfbh
jscgvuckcvyqmpabrvabvlzmbv cxvAbhcch,vabvfbmjsckv abljcvAvtcqjvfvjlrvfj
 gvymfj,vjscbvpm cjsabrvfjv gvfk xvFbhvUccbfvpsa.ckchv.amqcbjqg,vfbh
ocyf cvdlajcvpjaqqx

“Ajvufpvja cvtmkvfv fjysxvOljvjmvrcjvmbcvAv lpjvzljvsckvhmubxvAvhahvpm,
fbh,vfpvAvtl oqchvuajsv gvzmyncj,vfvpjklrrqcvocrfbvabvjscvhfknbcpp
fomljv gvnbccp,vzcktcyjqgvpaqcbjvmbvsckvzfkjvfbhvuajsvjscvpf cvzcylqafk
ymmabrvpmlbhpvtkm vjscv mkqmynpxvPmtjvqajjqcvsfbhp,vjmm,vuckcvykcczabr
m.ckv gvymfjvfbhvofyn,vjmlysabrvc.cbv gvbcynxvJscbvjscv fjysvpykfjysch
fbhvtawwchxvAvscqhvajvtqfkabr,vfbhvpfuvjscvusajcvofynpvmtvjscv mkqmynp
abvtqarsjvf ahvjscvjkccpxvAvsfpjaqgvjmmnvfvql zvmtvyf zsmkvtkm v g
zmyncj,vfbhvzkczfkchvjmvqarsjvajvfpvpmmbvfpvjscv fjysvpsmlqhvufbcxvJscb
AvqmmnchvfjvUccbfxvPscvufpvqgabrvyqljysabrv gvtccjvfbhvdlajc
 mjambqcpp,vuajsvsckvtfycvjmvjscvrkmlbhxvUajsvfvplhhcbvtkarsjvAvpjmmzch
jmvsckxvPscvpcc chvpyfkycqgvjmvokcfjscxvAvqajvjscvoqmynvmtvyf zsmkvfbh
tqlbrvajvjmvjscvrkmlbh,vfbhvfpvajvpzqajvfbhvtqfkchvlzvfbhvhkm.cvofyn
jscv mkqmynpvfbhvjscvpsfhmup,vAvnbcqjvhmubvfbhvqatjchvsckxvJscvummh
ocsabhvpcc chvtlqqvmtvjscvpjakvfbhv lk lkvmtvfvrkcfjvym zfbg!

“Pscvpcc chvjmvsf.cvtfabjchxvAvzljvsckvyfkctlqqgvlzmbv gvpsmlqhckvfbh
kmpcvjmvzlpsvmb,vfbhvjscbvjsckcvyf cvfvsmkkaoqcvkcfqapfjambxvAb
 fbœl.kabrvuajsv gv fjyscpvfbhvUccbf,vAvsfhvjlkbchv gpcqtvfomljvpc.ckfq
ja cp,vfbhvbmuvAvsfhvbmjvjscvtfabjcpjvahcfvabvusfjvhakcyjambvqfgv g
zfjsxvTmkvfqqvAvnbcu,vAv arsjvocvtfyabrvofynvjmufkhpvjscvZfqfycvmt
RkccbvZmkycqfabxvAvtmlbhv gpcqtvabvfvymqhvpucfjxvAvsfhvjmvjsabnvkfzahqg
usfjvjmvhmxvAvhcjck abchvjmvolaqhvfvtakcvfbhvcbyf zvusckcvucvuckcxvA
zljvUccbf,vpjaqqv mjambqcpp,vhmubvlzmbvfvjlktgvomqc,vfbhv.ckgvsfpjaqg,
fpv gvtakpjvql zvmtvyf zsmkvufbch,vAvocrfbvymqqcyjabrvpjaynpvfbh
qcf.cpxvSckcvfbhvjsckcvmljvmtvjscvhfknbcppvkmlbhv cvjscv mkqmynp’vcgcp
psmbcvqancvyfkolbyqcpx

“Jscvyf zsmkvtqaynckchvfbhvucbjvmljxvAvqajvfv fjys,vfbhvfpvAvhahvpm,
jumvusajcvtmk pvjsfjvsfhvoccbvfzzkmfysabrvUccbfvhfpschvsfpjaqgvfufgx
Mbcvufpvpmvoqabhchvogvjscvqarsjvjsfjvscvyf cvpjkfarsjvtmkv c,vfbhvA
tcqjvsapvombcpvrkabhvlbhckvjscvoqmuvmtv gvtapjxvScvrf.cvfvusmmzvmt
hap fg,vpjfrrckchvfvqajjqcvufg,vfbhvtcqqvhmubxvAvqajvfbmjsckvzacycvmt
yf zsmk,vfbhvucbjvmbvrfjsckabrv gvombtakcxvZkcpcbjqgvAvbmjaychvsmuvhkg
ufpvpm cvmtvjscvtmqafrcvfom.cv c,vtmkvpabycv gvfkka.fqvmbvjscvJa c
 fysabc,vfv fjjckvmtvfvuccn,vbmvkfabvsfhvtfqqcbxvPm,vabpjcfhvmtvyfpjabr
fomljvf mbrvjscvjkccpvtmkvtfqqcbvjuarp,vAvocrfbvqcfzabrvlzvfbhvhkfrrabr
hmubvokfbyscpxv.ckgvpmmbvAvsfhvfvysmnabrvp mngvtakcvmtvrkccbvummhvfbh
hkgvpjaynp,vfbhvymlqhvcymbm apcv gvyf zsmkxvJscbvAvjlkbchvjmvusckc
Uccbfvqfgvocpahcv gvakmbv fycxvAvjkachvusfjvAvymlqhvjmvkc.a.cvsck,volj
pscvqfgvqancvmbcvhcfhxvAvymlqhvbmjvc.cbvpfjaptgv gpcqtvuscjsckvmkvbmj
pscvokcfjschx

“Bmu,vjscvp mncvmtvjscvtakcvocfjvm.ckvjmufkhpv c,vfbhvajv lpjvsf.cv fhc
 cvscf.gvmtvfvplhhcbxv mkcm.ck,vjscv.fzmlkvmtvyf zsmkvufpvabvjscvfakx
 gvtakcvumlqhvbmjvbcchvkczqcbapsabrvtmkvfbvsmlkvmkvpmxvAvtcqjv.ckg
ucfkgvftjckv gvceckjamb,vfbhvpfjvhmubxvJscvummh,vjmm,vufpvtlqqvmtvf
pql okmlpv lk lkvjsfjvAvhahvbmjvlbhckpjfbhxvAvpcc chvilpjvjmvbmhvfbh
mzcbv gvcgcpxvOljvfqqvufpvhfkn,vfbhvjscv mkqmynpvsfhvjscakvsfbhpvlzmb
 cxvTqabrabrvmttvjscakvyqabrabrvtabrckpvAvsfpjaqgvtcqjvabv gvzmyncjvtmk
jscv fjys-ome,vfbh—ajvsfhvrmbc!vJscbvjscgvrkazzchvfbhvyqmpchvuajsv c
frfabxvAbvfv m cbjvAvnbcuvusfjvsfhvsfzzcbchxvAvsfhvpqczj,vfbhv gvtakc
sfhvrmbcvmlj,vfbhvjscvoajjckbcppvmtvhcfjsvyf cvm.ckv gvpmlqxvJscvtmkcpj
pcc chvtlqqvmtvjscvp cqqvmtvolkbabrvummhxvAvufpvyflrsjvogvjscvbcyn,vog
jscvsfak,vogvjscvfk p,vfbhvzlqqchvhmubxvAjvufpvabhcpykaofoqgvsmkkaoqc
abvjscvhfknbcppvjmvtccqvfqqvjscpcvpmtjvykcfjlkcpvscfzchvlzmbv cxvAvtcqj
fpvatvAvufpvabvfv mbpjkmlpvpzahck’pvucoxvAvufpvm.ckzmuckch,vfbhvucbj
hmubxvAvtcqjvqajjqcvjccjsvbazzabrvfjv gvbcynxvAvkmqqchvm.ck,vfbhvfpvA
hahvpmv gvsfbhvyf cvfrfabpjv gvakmbvqc.ckxvAjvrf.cv cvpjkcbrjsxvA
pjklrrqchvlz,vpsfnabrvjscvsl fbvkfjpvtkm v c,vfbh,vsmqhabrvjscvofk
psmkj,vAvjsklpjvusckcvAvilhrchvjscakvtfycpv arsjvocxvAvymlqhvtccqvjsc
plyylqcbjvra.abrvmtvtqcpsvfbhvombcvlbhckv gvoqmup,vfbhvtmkvfv m cbjvA
ufpvtkccx

“Jscvpjkfbrcvcelqjfjambvjsfjvpmvmtjcbvpcc pvjmvfyym zfbgvsfkhvtarsjabr
yf cvlzmbv cxvAvnbcuvjsfjvomjsvAvfbhvUccbfvuckcvqmpj,voljvAvhcjck abch
jmv fncvjscv mkqmynpvzfgvtmkvjscakv cfjxvAvpjmmhvuajsv gvofynvjmvf
jkcc,vpuabrabrvjscvakmbvofkvoctmkcv cxvJscvusmqcvummhvufpvtlqqvmtvjsc
pjakvfbhvykacpvmtvjsc xvFv abljcvzfppchxvJscakv.maycpvpcc chvjmvkapcvjm
fvsarsckvzajysvmtvceyajc cbj,vfbhvjscakv m.c cbjpvrkcuvtfpjckxvGcjvbmbc
yf cvuajsabvkcfysxvAvpjmmhvrqfkabrvfjvjscvoqfynbcppxvJscbvplhhcbqgvyf c
smzcxvUsfjvatvjscv mkqmynpvuckcvftkfah?vFbhvyqmpcvmbvjscvsccqpvmtvjsfj
yf cvfvpjkfbrcvjsabrxvJscvhfknbcppvpcc chvjmvrkmuvql abmlpxv.ckgvha qg
Avocrfbvjmvpccvjscv mkqmynpvfomljv c—jskccvofjjckchvfjv gvtccj—fbhvjscb
Avkcymrbapch,vuajsvabykchlqmlpvplkzkapc,vjsfjvjscvmjsckpvuckcvklbbabr,
abvfbvabycppfbjvpjkcf ,vfpvajvpcc ch,vtkm vocsabhv c,vfbhvfufgvjskmlrs
jscvummhvabvtkmbjxvFbhvjscakvofynpvpcc chvbmvqmbrckvusajc,voljvkchhapsx
FpvAvpjmmhvfrfzc,vAvpfuvfvqajjqcvkchvpzfknvrmvhkatjabrvfykmppvfvrfzvmt
pjfkqarsjvocjuccbvjscvokfbyscp,vfbhv.fbapsxvFbhvfjvjsfjvAvlbhckpjmmh
jscvp cqqvmtvolkbabrvummh,vjscvpql okmlpv lk lkvjsfjvufpvrkmuabrvbmu
abjmvfvrlpjgvkmfk,vjscvkchvrqmu,vfbhvjscv mkqmynp’vtqarsjx

“Pjczzabrvmljvtkm vocsabhv gvjkccvfbhvqmmnabrvofyn,vAvpfu,vjskmlrsvjsc
oqfynvzaqqfkpvmtvjscvbcfkckvjkccp,vjscvtqf cpvmtvjscvolkbabrvtmkcpjxvAj
ufpv gvtakpjvtakcvym abrvftjckv cxvUajsvjsfjvAvqmmnchvtmkvUccbf,volj
pscvufpvrmbcxvJscvsappabrvfbhvykfynqabrvocsabhv c,vjscvcezqmpa.cvjslh
fpvcfysvtkcpsvjkccvolkpjvabjmvtqf c,vqctjvqajjqcvja cvtmkvkctqcyjambx
 gvakmbvofkvpjaqqvrkazzch,vAvtmqqmuchvabvjscv mkqmynp’vzfjsxvAjvufpvf
yqmpcvkfycxvMbycvjscvtqf cpvykczjvtmkufkhvpmvpuatjqgvmbv gvkarsjvfpvA
kfbvjsfjvAvufpvmljtqfbnchvfbhvsfhvjmvpjkancvmttvjmvjscvqctjxvOljvfj
qfpjvAvc ckrchvlzmbvfvp fqqvmzcbvpzfyc,vfbhvfpvAvhahvpm,vfv mkqmynvyf c
oqlbhckabrvjmufkhpv c,vfbhvzfpjv c,vfbhvucbjvmbvpjkfarsjvabjmvjscvtakc!

“FbhvbmuvAvufpvjmvpccvjscv mpjvucakhvfbhvsmkkaoqcvjsabr,vAvjsabn,vmt
fqqvjsfjvAvocscqhvabvjsfjvtljlkcvfrcxvJsapvusmqcvpzfycvufpvfpvokarsjvfp
hfgvuajsvjscvkctqcyjambvmtvjscvtakcxvAbvjscvycbjkcvufpvfvsaqqmynvmk
jl lqlp,vplk mlbjchvogvfvpymkyschvsfujsmkbxvOcgmbhvjsapvufpvfbmjsckvfk 
mtvjscvolkbabrvtmkcpj,vuajsvgcqqmuvjmbrlcpvfqkcfhgvukajsabrvtkm vaj,
ym zqcjcqgvcbyakyqabrvjscvpzfycvuajsvfvtcbycvmtvtakcxvLzmbvjscvsaqqpahc
uckcvpm cvjsakjgvmkvtmkjgv mkqmynp,vhfwwqchvogvjscvqarsjvfbhvscfj,vfbh
oqlbhckabrvsajsckvfbhvjsajsckvfrfabpjvcfysvmjsckvabvjscakvocuaqhck cbjx
FjvtakpjvAvhahvbmjvkcfqapcvjscakvoqabhbcpp,vfbhvpjklynvtlkamlpqgvfj
jsc vuajsv gvofk,vabvfvtkcbwgvmtvtcfk,vfpvjscgvfzzkmfyschv c,vnaqqabr
mbcvfbhvykazzqabrvpc.ckfqv mkcxvOljvuscbvAvsfhvufjyschvjscvrcpjlkcpvmt
mbcvmtvjsc vrkmzabrvlbhckvjscvsfujsmkbvfrfabpjvjscvkchvpng,vfbhvscfkh
jscakv mfbp,vAvufpvfpplkchvmtvjscakvfopmqljcvscqzqcppbcppvfbhv apckgvab
jscvrqfkc,vfbhvAvpjklynvbmv mkcvmtvjsc x

“Gcjvc.ckgvbmuvfbhvjscbvmbcvumlqhvym cvpjkfarsjvjmufkhpv c,vpcjjabr
qmmpcvfvdla.ckabrvsmkkmkvjsfjv fhcv cvdlaynvjmvcqlhcvsa xvFjvmbcvja c
jscvtqf cpvhachvhmubvpm cusfj,vfbhvAvtcfkchvjscvtmlqvykcfjlkcpvumlqh
zkcpcbjqgvocvfoqcvjmvpccv cxvAvufpvjsabnabrvmtvocrabbabrvjscvtarsjvog
naqqabrvpm cvmtvjsc voctmkcvjsapvpsmlqhvsfzzcb;voljvjscvtakcvolkpjvmlj
frfabvokarsjqg,vfbhvAvpjfgchv gvsfbhxvAvufqnchvfomljvjscvsaqqvf mbr
jsc vfbhvf.mahchvjsc ,vqmmnabrvtmkvpm cvjkfycvmtvUccbfxvOljvUccbfvufp
rmbcx

“FjvqfpjvAvpfjvhmubvmbvjscvpl  ajvmtvjscvsaqqmyn,vfbhvufjyschvjsap
pjkfbrcvabykchaoqcvym zfbgvmtvoqabhvjsabrpvrkmzabrvjmvfbhvtkm,vfbh
 fnabrvlbyfbbgvbmapcpvjmvcfysvmjsck,vfpvjscvrqfkcvmtvjscvtakcvocfjvmb
jsc xvJscvymaqabrvlzklpsvmtvp mncvpjkcf chvfykmppvjscvpng,vfbhvjskmlrs
jscvkfkcvjfjjckpvmtvjsfjvkchvyfbmzg,vkc mjcvfpvjsmlrsvjscgvocqmbrchvjm
fbmjsckvlba.ckpc,vpsmbcvjscvqajjqcvpjfkpxvJumvmkvjskccv mkqmynpvyf c
oqlbhckabrvabjmv c,vfbhvAvhkm.cvjsc vmttvuajsvoqmupvmtv gvtapjp,
jkc oqabrvfpvAvhahvpmx

“Tmkvjscv mpjvzfkjvmtvjsfjvbarsjvAvufpvzckplfhchvajvufpvfvbarsj fkcxvA
oajv gpcqtvfbhvpykcf chvabvfvzfppambfjcvhcpakcvjmvfufncxvAvocfjvjsc
rkmlbhvuajsv gvsfbhp,vfbhvrmjvlzvfbhvpfjvhmubvfrfab,vfbhvufbhckchvsckc
fbhvjsckc,vfbhvfrfabvpfjvhmubxvJscbvAvumlqhvtfqqvjmvklooabrv gvcgcpvfbh
yfqqabrvlzmbvRmhvjmvqcjv cvfufncxvJskaycvAvpfuv mkqmynpvzljvjscakvscfhp
hmubvabvfvnabhvmtvfrmbgvfbhvklpsvabjmvjscvtqf cpxvOlj,vfjvqfpj,vfom.c
jscvplopahabrvkchvmtvjscvtakc,vfom.cvjscvpjkcf abrv fppcpvmtvoqfyn
p mncvfbhvjscvusajcbabrvfbhvoqfyncbabrvjkccvpjl zp,vfbhvjscvha abapsabr
bl ockpvmtvjscpcvha vykcfjlkcp,vyf cvjscvusajcvqarsjvmtvjscvhfgx

“AvpcfkyschvfrfabvtmkvjkfycpvmtvUccbf,voljvjsckcvuckcvbmbcxvAjvufp
zqfabvjsfjvjscgvsfhvqctjvsckvzmmkvqajjqcvomhgvabvjscvtmkcpjxvAvyfbbmj
hcpykaocvsmuvajvkcqac.chv cvjmvjsabnvjsfjvajvsfhvcpyfzchvjscvfutlqvtfjc
jmvusaysvajvpcc chvhcpjabchxvFpvAvjsmlrsjvmtvjsfj,vAvufpvfq mpjv m.ch
jmvocrabvfv fppfykcvmtvjscvscqzqcppvfom abfjambpvfomljv c,voljvA
ymbjfabchv gpcqtxvJscvsaqqmyn,vfpvAvsf.cvpfah,vufpvfvnabhvmtvapqfbhvab
jscvtmkcpjxvTkm vajpvpl  ajvAvymlqhvbmuv fncvmljvjskmlrsvfvsfwcvmt
p mncvjscvZfqfycvmtvRkccbvZmkycqfab,vfbhvtkm vjsfjvAvymlqhvrcjv g
ocfkabrpvtmkvjscvUsajcvPzsabexvFbhvpm,vqcf.abrvjscvkc bfbjvmtvjscpc
hf bchvpmlqpvpjaqqvrmabrvsajsckvfbhvjsajsckvfbhv mfbabr,vfpvjscvhfg
rkcuvyqcfkck,vAvjachvpm cvrkfppvfomljv gvtccjvfbhvqa zchvmbvfykmpp
p mnabrvfpscpvfbhvf mbrvoqfynvpjc pvjsfjvpjaqqvzlqpfjchvabjckbfqqgvuajs
takc,vjmufkhpvjscvsahabr-zqfycvmtvjscvJa cv fysabcxvAvufqnchvpqmuqg,
tmkvAvufpvfq mpjvcesflpjch,vfpvucqqvfpvqf c,vfbhvAvtcqjvjscvabjcbpcpj
ukcjyschbcppvtmkvjscvsmkkaoqcvhcfjsvmtvqajjqcvUccbfxvAjvpcc chvfb
m.ckuscq abrvyfqf ajgxvBmu,vabvjsapvmqhvtf aqafkvkmm ,vajvapv mkcvqanc
jscvpmkkmuvmtvfvhkcf vjsfbvfbvfyjlfqvqmppxvOljvjsfjv mkbabrvajvqctjv c
fopmqljcqgvqmbcqgvfrfab—jckkaoqgvfqmbcxvAvocrfbvjmvjsabnvmtvjsapvsmlpc
mtv abc,vmtvjsapvtakcpahc,vmtvpm cvmtvgml,vfbhvuajsvplysvjsmlrsjpvyf c
fvqmbrabrvjsfjvufpvzfabx

“Olj,vfpvAvufqnchvm.ckvjscvp mnabrvfpscpvlbhckvjscvokarsjv mkbabrvpng,
Av fhcvfvhapym.ckgxvAbv gvjkmlpckvzmyncjvuckcvpjaqqvpm cvqmmpcv fjyscpx
Jscvomev lpjvsf.cvqcfnchvoctmkcvajvufpvqmpjx



vEAAA


vJscvJkfzvmtvjscvUsajcvPzsabe

“Fomljvcarsjvmkvbabcvabvjscv mkbabrvAvyf cvjmvjscvpf cvpcfjvmtvgcqqmu
 cjfqvtkm vusaysvAvsfhv.acuchvjscvumkqhvlzmbvjscvc.cbabrvmtv gvfkka.fqx
Avjsmlrsjvmtv gvsfpjgvymbyqlpambpvlzmbvjsfjvc.cbabrvfbhvymlqhvbmj
kctkfabvtkm vqflrsabrvoajjckqgvfjv gvymbtahcbycxvSckcvufpvjscvpf c
ocfljatlqvpycbc,vjscvpf cvfolbhfbjvtmqafrc,vjscvpf cvpzqcbhahvzfqfycp
fbhv frbataycbjvklabp,vjscvpf cvpaq.ckvka.ckvklbbabrvocjuccbvajp
tckjaqcvofbnpxvJscvrfgvkmocpvmtvjscvocfljatlqvzcmzqcv m.chvsajsckvfbh
jsajsckvf mbrvjscvjkccpxvPm cvuckcvofjsabrvabvcefyjqgvjscvzqfycvusckcvA
sfhvpf.chvUccbf,vfbhvjsfjvplhhcbqgvrf.cv cvfvnccbvpjfovmtvzfabxvFbh
qancvoqmjpvlzmbvjscvqfbhpyfzcvkmpcvjscvylzmqfpvfom.cvjscvufgpvjmvjsc
LbhckumkqhxvAvlbhckpjmmhvbmuvusfjvfqqvjscvocfljgvmtvjscvM.ckumkqh
zcmzqcvym.ckchxv.ckgvzqcfpfbjvufpvjscakvhfg,vfpvzqcfpfbjvfpvjscvhfgvmt
jscvyfjjqcvabvjscvtacqhxvQancvjscvyfjjqc,vjscgvnbcuvmtvbmvcbc acpvfbh
zkm.ahchvfrfabpjvbmvbcchpxvFbhvjscakvcbhvufpvjscvpf cx

“Avrkac.chvjmvjsabnvsmuvokactvjscvhkcf vmtvjscvsl fbvabjcqqcyjvsfh
occbxvAjvsfhvym  ajjchvplayahcxvAjvsfhvpcjvajpcqtvpjcfhtfpjqgvjmufkhp
ym tmkjvfbhvcfpc,vfvofqfbychvpmyacjgvuajsvpcylkajgvfbhvzck fbcbygvfp
ajpvufjysumkh,vajvsfhvfjjfabchvajpvsmzcp—jmvym cvjmvjsapvfjvqfpjxvMbyc,
qatcvfbhvzkmzckjgv lpjvsf.cvkcfyschvfq mpjvfopmqljcvpftcjgxvJscvkays
sfhvoccbvfpplkchvmtvsapvucfqjsvfbhvym tmkj,vjscvjmaqckvfpplkchvmtvsap
qatcvfbhvumknxvBmvhmlojvabvjsfjvzcktcyjvumkqhvjsckcvsfhvoccbvbm
lbc zqmgchvzkmoqc ,vbmvpmyafqvdlcpjambvqctjvlbpmq.chxvFbhvfvrkcfjvdlacj
sfhvtmqqmuchx

“Ajvapvfvqfuvmtvbfjlkcvucvm.ckqmmn,vjsfjvabjcqqcyjlfqv.ckpfjaqajgvap
jscvym zcbpfjambvtmkvysfbrc,vhfbrck,vfbhvjkmloqcxvFbvfba fqvzcktcyjqg
abvsfk mbgvuajsvajpvcb.akmb cbjvapvfvzcktcyjv cysfbap xvBfjlkcvbc.ck
fzzcfqpvjmvabjcqqarcbycvlbjaqvsfoajvfbhvabpjabyjvfkcvlpcqcppxvJsckcvap
bmvabjcqqarcbycvusckcvjsckcvapvbmvysfbrcvfbhvbmvbcchvmtvysfbrcxvMbqg
jsmpcvfba fqpvzfkjfncvmtvabjcqqarcbycvjsfjvsf.cvjmv ccjvfvslrcv.fkacjg
mtvbcchpvfbhvhfbrckpx

“Pm,vfpvAvpccvaj,vjscvLzzckumkqhv fbvsfhvhkatjchvjmufkhpvsapvtccoqc
zkcjjabcpp,vfbhvjscvLbhckumkqhvjmv ckcv cysfbayfqvabhlpjkgxvOljvjsfj
zcktcyjvpjfjcvsfhvqfynchvmbcvjsabrvc.cbvtmkv cysfbayfq
zcktcyjamb—fopmqljcvzck fbcbygxvFzzfkcbjqgvfpvja cvucbjvmb,vjscvtcchabr
mtvfbvLbhckumkqh,vsmuc.ckvajvufpvcttcyjch,vsfhvocym cvhapimabjchx
 mjsckvBcycppajg,vusmvsfhvoccbvpjf.chvmttvtmkvfvtcuvjsmlpfbhvgcfkp,
yf cvofynvfrfab,vfbhvpscvocrfbvocqmuxvJscvLbhckumkqhvocabrvabvymbjfyj
uajsv fysabckg,vusays,vsmuc.ckvzcktcyj,vpjaqqvbcchpvpm cvqajjqcvjsmlrsj
mljpahcvsfoaj,vsfhvzkmofoqgvkcjfabchvzcktmkycvkfjsckv mkcvabajafja.c,
atvqcppvmtvc.ckgvmjsckvsl fbvysfkfyjck,vjsfbvjscvLzzckxvFbhvuscbvmjsck
 cfjvtfaqchvjsc ,vjscgvjlkbchvjmvusfjvmqhvsfoajvsfhvsajsckjmvtmkoahhcbx
PmvAvpfgvAvpfuvajvabv gvqfpjv.acuvmtvjscvumkqhvmtvCarsjvSlbhkchvfbhvJum
JsmlpfbhvPc.cbvSlbhkchvfbhvMbcxvAjv fgvocvfpvukmbrvfbvcezqfbfjambvfp
 mkjfqvuajvymlqhvab.cbjxvAjvapvsmuvjscvjsabrvpsfzchvajpcqtvjmv c,vfbh
fpvjsfjvAvra.cvajvjmvgmlx

“Ftjckvjscvtfjarlcp,vceyajc cbjp,vfbhvjckkmkpvmtvjscvzfpjvhfgp,vfbhvab
pzajcvmtv gvrkact,vjsapvpcfjvfbhvjscvjkfbdlaqv.acuvfbhvjscvufk 
plbqarsjvuckcv.ckgvzqcfpfbjxvAvufpv.ckgvjakchvfbhvpqcczg,vfbhvpmmbv g
jscmkapabrvzfppchvabjmvhmwabrxvYfjysabrv gpcqtvfjvjsfj,vAvjmmnv gvmub
sabj,vfbhvpzkcfhabrv gpcqtvmljvlzmbvjscvjlktvAvsfhvfvqmbrvfbh
kctkcpsabrvpqcczx

“AvfumncvfvqajjqcvoctmkcvplbpcjjabrxvAvbmuvtcqjvpftcvfrfabpjvocabr
yflrsjvbfzzabrvogvjscv mkqmynp,vfbh,vpjkcjysabrv gpcqt,vAvyf cvmbvhmub
jscvsaqqvjmufkhpvjscvUsajcvPzsabexvAvsfhv gvykmuofkvabvmbcvsfbh,vfbh
jscvmjsckvsfbhvzqfgchvuajsvjscv fjyscpvabv gvzmyncjx

“Fbhvbmuvyf cvfv mpjvlbcezcyjchvjsabrxvFpvAvfzzkmfyschvjscvzchcpjfqvmt
jscvpzsabevAvtmlbhvjscvokmbwcv.fq.cpvuckcvmzcbxvJscgvsfhvpqahvhmubvabjm
rkmm.cpx

“FjvjsfjvAvpjmzzchvpsmkjvoctmkcvjsc ,vscpajfjabrvjmvcbjckx

“Uajsabvufpvfvp fqqvfzfkj cbj,vfbhvmbvfvkfapchvzqfycvabvjscvymkbckvmt
jsapvufpvjscvJa cv fysabcxvAvsfhvjscvp fqqvqc.ckpvabv gvzmyncjxvPm
sckc,vftjckvfqqv gvcqfomkfjcvzkczfkfjambpvtmkvjscvpacrcvmtvjscvUsajc
Pzsabe,vufpvfv ccnvplkkcbhckxvAvjskcuv gvakmbvofkvfufg,vfq mpjvpmkkg
bmjvjmvlpcvajx

“Fvplhhcbvjsmlrsjvyf cvabjmv gvscfhvfpvAvpjmmzchvjmufkhpvjscvzmkjfqx
Tmkvmbyc,vfjvqcfpj,vAvrkfpzchvjscv cbjfqvmzckfjambpvmtvjscv mkqmynpx
Plzzkcppabrvfvpjkmbrvabyqabfjambvjmvqflrs,vAvpjczzchvjskmlrsvjscvokmbwc
tkf cvfbhvlzvjmvjscvJa cv fysabcxvAvufpvplkzkapchvjmvtabhvajvsfhvoccb
yfkctlqqgvmaqchvfbhvyqcfbchxvAvsf.cvplpzcyjchvpabycvjsfjvjscv mkqmynp
sfhvc.cbvzfkjafqqgvjfncbvajvjmvzacycpvusaqcvjkgabrvabvjscakvha vufgvjm
rkfpzvajpvzlkzmpcx

“BmuvfpvAvpjmmhvfbhvcef abchvaj,vtabhabrvfvzqcfplkcvabvjscv ckcvjmlys
mtvjscvymbjka.fbyc,vjscvjsabrvAvsfhvcezcyjchvsfzzcbchxvJscvokmbwc
zfbcqpvplhhcbqgvpqahvlzvfbhvpjklynvjscvtkf cvuajsvfvyqfbrxvAvufpvabvjsc
hfkn—jkfzzchxvPmvjscv mkqmynpvjsmlrsjxvFjvjsfjvAvyslynqchvrqcctlqqgx

“Avymlqhvfqkcfhgvscfkvjscakv lk lkabrvqflrsjckvfpvjscgvyf cvjmufkhpv cx
.ckgvyfq qgvAvjkachvjmvpjkancvjscv fjysxvAvsfhvmbqgvjmvtaevmbvjsc
qc.ckpvfbhvhczfkjvjscbvqancvfvrsmpjxvOljvAvsfhvm.ckqmmnchvmbcvqajjqc
jsabrxvJscv fjyscpvuckcvmtvjsfjvfom abfoqcvnabhvjsfjvqarsjvmbqgvmbvjsc
omex

“Gmlv fgva frabcvsmuvfqqv gvyfq v.fbapschxvJscvqajjqcvokljcpvuckcvyqmpc
lzmbv cxvMbcvjmlyschv cxvAv fhcvfvpucczabrvoqmuvabvjscvhfknvfjvjsc 
uajsvjscvqc.ckp,vfbhvocrfbvjmvpykf oqcvabjmvjscvpfhhqcvmtvjscv fysabcx
Jscbvyf cvmbcvsfbhvlzmbv cvfbhvjscbvfbmjsckxvJscbvAvsfhvpa zqgvjmvtarsj
frfabpjvjscakvzckpapjcbjvtabrckpvtmkv gvqc.ckp,vfbhvfjvjscvpf cvja c
tccqvtmkvjscvpjlhpvm.ckvusaysvjscpcvtajjchxvMbc,vabhcch,vjscgvfq mpj
rmjvfufgvtkm v cxvFpvajvpqazzchvtkm v gvsfbh,vAvsfhvjmvoljjvabvjscvhfkn
uajsv gvscfh—Avymlqhvscfkvjscv mkqmyn’pvpnlqqvkabr—jmvkcym.ckvajxvAj
ufpvfvbcfkckvjsabrvjsfbvjscvtarsjvabvjscvtmkcpj,vAvjsabn,vjsapvqfpj
pykf oqcx

“Oljvfjvqfpjvjscvqc.ckvufpvtaechvfbhvzlqqchvm.ckxvJscvyqabrabrvsfbhp
pqazzchvtkm v cxvJscvhfknbcppvzkcpcbjqgvtcqqvtkm v gvcgcpxvAvtmlbh
 gpcqtvabvjscvpf cvrkcgvqarsjvfbhvjl lqjvAvsf.cvfqkcfhgvhcpykaochx



vEA.


vJscvTlkjsckv.apamb

“Avsf.cvfqkcfhgvjmqhvgmlvmtvjscvpaynbcppvfbhvymbtlpambvjsfjvym cpvuajs
ja cvjkf.cqqabrxvFbhvjsapvja cvAvufpvbmjvpcfjchvzkmzckqgvabvjscvpfhhqc,
oljvpahcufgpvfbhvabvfbvlbpjfoqcvtfpsambxvTmkvfbvabhctabajcvja cvAvyqlbr
jmvjscv fysabcvfpvajvpufgchvfbhv.aokfjch,vdlajcvlbscchabrvsmuvAvucbj,
fbhvuscbvAvokmlrsjv gpcqtvjmvqmmnvfjvjscvhafqpvfrfabvAvufpvf fwchvjm
tabhvusckcvAvsfhvfkka.chxvMbcvhafqvkcymkhpvhfgp,vfbhvfbmjsckvjsmlpfbhp
mtvhfgp,vfbmjsckv aqqambpvmtvhfgp,vfbhvfbmjsckvjsmlpfbhpvmtv aqqambpx
Bmu,vabpjcfhvmtvkc.ckpabrvjscvqc.ckp,vAvsfhvzlqqchvjsc vm.ckvpmvfpvjm
rmvtmkufkhvuajsvjsc ,vfbhvuscbvAvyf cvjmvqmmnvfjvjscpcvabhayfjmkpvA
tmlbhvjsfjvjscvjsmlpfbhpvsfbhvufpvpucczabrvkmlbhvfpvtfpjvfpvjscvpcymbhp
sfbhvmtvfvufjys—abjmvtljlkajgx

“FpvAvhkm.cvmb,vfvzcylqafkvysfbrcvykczjvm.ckvjscvfzzcfkfbycvmtvjsabrpx
Jscvzfqzajfjabrvrkcgbcppvrkcuvhfknck;vjscb—jsmlrsvAvufpvpjaqq
jkf.cqqabrvuajsvzkmharamlpv.cqmyajg—jscvoqabnabrvplyycppambvmtvhfgvfbh
barsj,vusaysvufpvlplfqqgvabhayfja.cvmtvfvpqmuckvzfyc,vkcjlkbch,vfbh
rkcuv mkcvfbhv mkcv fknchxvJsapvzlwwqchv cv.ckgv lysvfjvtakpjxvJsc
fqjckbfjambpvmtvbarsjvfbhvhfgvrkcuvpqmuckvfbhvpqmuck,vfbhvpmvhahvjsc
zfppfrcvmtvjscvplbvfykmppvjscvpng,vlbjaqvjscgvpcc chvjmvpjkcjysvjskmlrs
ycbjlkacpxvFjvqfpjvfvpjcfhgvjuaqarsjvokmmhchvm.ckvjscvcfkjs,vfvjuaqarsj
mbqgvokmncbvbmuvfbhvjscbvuscbvfvym cjvrqfkchvfykmppvjscvhfknqabrvpngx
Jscvofbhvmtvqarsjvjsfjvsfhvabhayfjchvjscvplbvsfhvqmbrvpabyc
hapfzzcfkch;vtmkvjscvplbvsfhvycfpchvjmvpcj—ajvpa zqgvkmpcvfbhvtcqqvab
jscvucpj,vfbhvrkcuvc.ckvokmfhckvfbhv mkcvkchxvFqqvjkfycvmtvjscv mmbvsfh
.fbapschxvJscvyakyqabrvmtvjscvpjfkp,vrkmuabrvpqmuckvfbhvpqmuck,vsfh
ra.cbvzqfycvjmvykcczabrvzmabjpvmtvqarsjxvFjvqfpj,vpm cvja cvoctmkcvA
pjmzzch,vjscvplb,vkchvfbhv.ckgvqfkrc,vsfqjchv mjambqcppvlzmbvjsc
smkawmb,vfv.fpjvhm cvrqmuabrvuajsvfvhlqqvscfj,vfbhvbmuvfbhvjscb
plttckabrvfv m cbjfkgvcejabyjambxvFjvmbcvja cvajvsfhvtmkvfvqajjqcvusaqc
rqmuchv mkcvokaqqafbjqgvfrfab,voljvajvpzcchaqgvkc.ckjchvjmvajpvplqqcb
kchvscfjxvAvzckyca.chvogvjsapvpqmuabrvhmubvmtvajpvkapabrvfbhvpcjjabr
jsfjvjscvumknvmtvjscvjahfqvhkfrvufpvhmbcxvJscvcfkjsvsfhvym cvjmvkcpj
uajsvmbcvtfycvjmvjscvplb,vc.cbvfpvabvmlkvmubvja cvjscv mmbvtfycpvjsc
cfkjsxv.ckgvyfljamlpqg,vtmkvAvkc c ockchv gvtmk ckvscfhqmbrvtfqq,vA
ocrfbvjmvkc.ckpcv gv mjambxvPqmuckvfbhvpqmuckvucbjvjscvyakyqabrvsfbhp
lbjaqvjscvjsmlpfbhpvmbcvpcc chv mjambqcppvfbhvjscvhfaqgvmbcvufpvbm
qmbrckvfv ckcv apjvlzmbvajpvpyfqcxvPjaqqvpqmuck,vlbjaqvjscvha vmljqabcp
mtvfvhcpmqfjcvocfysvrkcuv.apaoqcx

“Avpjmzzchv.ckgvrcbjqgvfbhvpfjvlzmbvjscvJa cv fysabc,vqmmnabrvkmlbhx
JscvpngvufpvbmvqmbrckvoqlcxvBmkjs-cfpjufkhvajvufpvabngvoqfyn,vfbhvmlj
mtvjscvoqfynbcppvpsmbcvokarsjqgvfbhvpjcfhaqgvjscvzfqcvusajcvpjfkpx
M.ckscfhvajvufpvfvhcczvAbhafbvkchvfbhvpjfkqcpp,vfbhvpmljs-cfpjufkhvaj
rkcuvokarsjckvjmvfvrqmuabrvpyfkqcjvusckc,vyljvogvjscvsmkawmb,vqfgvjsc
slrcvslqqvmtvjscvplb,vkchvfbhv mjambqcppxvJscvkmynpvfomljv cvuckcvmtvf
sfkpsvkchhapsvymqmlk,vfbhvfqqvjscvjkfycvmtvqatcvjsfjvAvymlqhvpccvfj
takpjvufpvjscvabjcbpcqgvrkccbv.crcjfjambvjsfjvym.ckchvc.ckgvzkmicyjabr
zmabjvmbvjscakvpmljs-cfpjckbvtfycxvAjvufpvjscvpf cvkaysvrkccbvjsfjvmbc
pccpvmbvtmkcpjv mppvmkvmbvjscvqayscbvabvyf.cp:vzqfbjpvusaysvqancvjscpc
rkmuvabvfvzckzcjlfqvjuaqarsjx

“Jscv fysabcvufpvpjfbhabrvmbvfvpqmzabrvocfysxvJscvpcfvpjkcjyschvfufgvjm
jscvpmljs-ucpj,vjmvkapcvabjmvfvpsfkzvokarsjvsmkawmbvfrfabpjvjscvufb
pngxvJsckcvuckcvbmvokcfnckpvfbhvbmvuf.cp,vtmkvbmjvfvokcfjsvmtvuabhvufp
pjakkabrxvMbqgvfvpqarsjvmaqgvpucqqvkmpcvfbhvtcqqvqancvfvrcbjqc
okcfjsabr,vfbhvpsmuchvjsfjvjscvcjckbfqvpcfvufpvpjaqqv m.abrvfbhvqa.abrx
Fbhvfqmbrvjscv fkrabvusckcvjscvufjckvpm cja cpvokmncvufpvfvjsayn
abyklpjfjambvmtvpfqj—zabnvlbhckvjscvqlkahvpngxvJsckcvufpvfvpcbpcvmt
mzzkcppambvabv gvscfh,vfbhvAvbmjaychvjsfjvAvufpvokcfjsabrv.ckgvtfpjx
Jscvpcbpfjambvkc abhchv cvmtv gvmbqgvcezckacbycvmtv mlbjfabcckabr,vfbh
tkm vjsfjvAvilhrchvjscvfakvjmvocv mkcvkfkctachvjsfbvajvapvbmux

“TfkvfufgvlzvjscvhcpmqfjcvpqmzcvAvscfkhvfvsfkpsvpykcf ,vfbhvpfuvfvjsabr
qancvfvslrcvusajcvoljjcktqgvrmvpqfbjabrvfbhvtqljjckabrvlzvabjmvjscvpng
fbh,vyakyqabr,vhapfzzcfkvm.ckvpm cvqmuvsaqqmynpvocgmbhxvJscvpmlbhvmt
ajpv.maycvufpvpmvhap fqvjsfjvAvpsa.ckchvfbhvpcfjchv gpcqtv mkcvtak qg
lzmbvjscv fysabcxvQmmnabrvkmlbhv cvfrfab,vAvpfuvjsfj,vdlajcvbcfk,vusfj
Avsfhvjfncbvjmvocvfvkchhapsv fppvmtvkmynvufpv m.abrvpqmuqgvjmufkhpv cx
JscbvAvpfuvjscvjsabrvufpvkcfqqgvfv mbpjkmlpvykfo-qancvykcfjlkcxvYfbvgml
a frabcvfvykfovfpvqfkrcvfpvgmbhckvjfoqc,vuajsvajpv fbgvqcrpv m.abr
pqmuqgvfbhvlbyckjfabqg,vajpvoarvyqfupvpufgabr,vajpvqmbrvfbjcbbæ,vqanc
yfkjckp’vusazp,vuf.abrvfbhvtccqabr,vfbhvajpvpjfqnchvcgcpvrqcf abrvfj
gmlvmbvcajsckvpahcvmtvajpv cjfqqayvtkmbj?vAjpvofynvufpvymkklrfjchvfbh
mkbf cbjchvuajsvlbrfabqgvomppcp,vfbhvfvrkccbapsvabyklpjfjambvoqmjysch
ajvsckcvfbhvjsckcxvAvymlqhvpccvjscv fbgvzfqzpvmtvajpvym zqayfjchv mljs
tqaynckabrvfbhvtccqabrvfpvajv m.chx

“FpvAvpjfkchvfjvjsapvpabapjckvfzzfkajambvykfuqabrvjmufkhpv c,vAvtcqjvf
jaynqabrvmbv gvysccnvfpvjsmlrsvfvtqgvsfhvqarsjchvjsckcxvAvjkachvjm
oklpsvajvfufgvuajsv gvsfbh,voljvabvfv m cbjvajvkcjlkbch,vfbhvfq mpj
a  chafjcqgvyf cvfbmjsckvogv gvcfkxvAvpjklynvfjvjsap,vfbhvyflrsj
pm cjsabrvjskcfhqancxvAjvufpvhkfubvpuatjqgvmljvmtv gvsfbhxvUajsvf
tkarsjtlqvdlfq ,vAvjlkbch,vfbhvAvpfuvjsfjvAvsfhvrkfpzchvjscvfbjcbbfvmt
fbmjsckv mbpjckvykfovjsfjvpjmmhvilpjvocsabhv cxvAjpvc.aqvcgcpvuckc
ukarrqabrvmbvjscakvpjfqnp,vajpv mljsvufpvfqqvfqa.cvuajsvfzzcjajc,vfbh
ajpv.fpjvlbrfabqgvyqfup,vp cfkchvuajsvfbvfqrfqvpqa c,vuckcvhcpycbhabr
lzmbv cxvAbvfv m cbjv gvsfbhvufpvmbvjscvqc.ck,vfbhvAvsfhvzqfychvfv mbjs
ocjuccbv gpcqtvfbhvjscpcv mbpjckpxvOljvAvufpvpjaqqvmbvjscvpf cvocfys,
fbhvAvpfuvjsc vhapjabyjqgvbmuvfpvpmmbvfpvAvpjmzzchxvHmwcbpvmtvjsc 
pcc chvjmvocvykfuqabrvsckcvfbhvjsckc,vabvjscvpm okcvqarsj,vf mbrvjsc
tmqafjchvpsccjpvmtvabjcbpcvrkccbx

“Avyfbbmjvymb.cgvjscvpcbpcvmtvfom abfoqcvhcpmqfjambvjsfjvslbrvm.ckvjsc
umkqhxvJscvkchvcfpjckbvpng,vjscvbmkjsufkhvoqfynbcpp,vjscvpfqjvHcfhvPcf,
jscvpjmbgvocfysvykfuqabrvuajsvjscpcvtmlq,vpqmu-pjakkabrv mbpjckp,vjsc
lbatmk vzmapmbmlp-qmmnabrvrkccbvmtvjscvqayscbmlpvzqfbjp,vjscvjsabvfak
jsfjvslkjpvmbc’pvqlbrp:vfqqvymbjkaoljchvjmvfbvfzzfqqabrvcttcyjxvAv m.ch
mbvfvslbhkchvgcfkp,vfbhvjsckcvufpvjscvpf cvkchvplb—fvqajjqcvqfkrck,vf
qajjqcvhlqqck—jscvpf cvhgabrvpcf,vjscvpf cvysaqqvfak,vfbhvjscvpf c
ykmuhvmtvcfkjsgvyklpjfycfvykcczabrvabvfbhvmljvf mbrvjscvrkccbvucchvfbh
jscvkchvkmynpxvFbhvabvjscvucpjufkhvpng,vAvpfuvfvylk.chvzfqcvqabcvqancvf
.fpjvbcuv mmbx

“PmvAvjkf.cqqch,vpjmzzabrvc.ckvfbhvfrfab,vabvrkcfjvpjkahcpvmtvf
jsmlpfbhvgcfkpvmkv mkc,vhkfubvmbvogvjscv gpjckgvmtvjscvcfkjs’pvtfjc,
ufjysabrvuajsvfvpjkfbrcvtfpyabfjambvjscvplbvrkmuvqfkrckvfbhvhlqqckvab
jscvucpjufkhvpng,vfbhvjscvqatcvmtvjscvmqhvcfkjsvcoovfufgxvFjvqfpj,v mkc
jsfbvjsakjgv aqqambvgcfkpvscbyc,vjscvslrcvkch-smjvhm cvmtvjscvplbvsfh
ym cvjmvmopylkcvbcfkqgvfvjcbjsvzfkjvmtvjscvhfknqabrvscf.cbpxvJscbvA
pjmzzchvmbycv mkc,vtmkvjscvykfuqabrv lqjajlhcvmtvykfopvsfhvhapfzzcfkch,
fbhvjscvkchvocfys,vpf.cvtmkvajpvqa.ahvrkccbvqa.ckumkjpvfbhvqayscbp,
pcc chvqatcqcppxvFbhvbmuvajvufpvtqcynchvuajsvusajcxvFvoajjckvymqh
fppfaqchv cxvKfkcvusajcvtqfncpvc.ckvfbhvfrfabvyf cvchhgabrvhmubxvJmvjsc
bmkjs-cfpjufkh,vjscvrqfkcvmtvpbmuvqfgvlbhckvjscvpjfkqarsjvmtvjscvpfoqc
png,vfbhvAvymlqhvpccvfbvlbhlqfjabrvykcpjvmtvsaqqmynpvzabnapsvusajcx
Jsckcvuckcvtkabrcpvmtvaycvfqmbrvjscvpcfv fkrab,vuajsvhkatjabrv fppcp
tfkjsckvmlj;voljvjscv fabvcezfbpcvmtvjsfjvpfqjvmycfb,vfqqvoqmmhgvlbhck
jscvcjckbfqvplbpcj,vufpvpjaqqvlbtkmwcbx

“Avqmmnchvfomljv cvjmvpccvatvfbgvjkfycpvmtvfba fqvqatcvkc fabchxvF
yckjfabvabhctabfoqcvfzzkcscbpambvpjaqqvnczjv cvabvjscvpfhhqcvmtvjsc
 fysabcxvOljvAvpfuvbmjsabrv m.abr,vabvcfkjsvmkvpngvmkvpcfxvJscvrkccb
pqa cvmbvjscvkmynpvfqmbcvjcpjatachvjsfjvqatcvufpvbmjvcejabyjxvFvpsfqqmu
pfbhofbnvsfhvfzzcfkchvabvjscvpcfvfbhvjscvufjckvsfhvkcychchvtkm vjsc
ocfysxvAvtfbyachvAvpfuvpm cvoqfynvmoicyjvtqmzzabrvfomljvlzmbvjsapvofbn,
oljvajvocyf cv mjambqcppvfpvAvqmmnchvfjvaj,vfbhvAvilhrchvjsfjv gvcgc
sfhvoccbvhcyca.ch,vfbhvjsfjvjscvoqfynvmoicyjvufpv ckcqgvfvkmynxvJsc
pjfkpvabvjscvpngvuckcvabjcbpcqgvokarsjvfbhvpcc chvjmv cvjmvjuabnqcv.ckg
qajjqcx

“PlhhcbqgvAvbmjaychvjsfjvjscvyakylqfkvucpjufkhvmljqabcvmtvjscvplbvsfh
ysfbrch;vjsfjvfvymbyf.ajg,vfvofg,vsfhvfzzcfkchvabvjscvylk.cxvAvpfuvjsap
rkmuvqfkrckxvTmkvfv abljcvzcksfzpvAvpjfkchvfrsfpjvfjvjsapvoqfynbcpp
jsfjvufpvykcczabrvm.ckvjscvhfg,vfbhvjscbvAvkcfqapchvjsfjvfbvcyqazpcvufp
ocrabbabrxvCajsckvjscv mmbvmkvjscvzqfbcjv ckylkgvufpvzfppabrvfykmppvjsc
plb’pvhapnxvBfjlkfqqg,vfjvtakpjvAvjmmnvajvjmvocvjscv mmb,voljvjsckcvap
 lysvjmvabyqabcv cvjmvocqac.cvjsfjvusfjvAvkcfqqgvpfuvufpvjscvjkfbpajvmt
fbvabbckvzqfbcjvzfppabrv.ckgvbcfkvjmvjscvcfkjsx

“Jscvhfknbcppvrkcuvfzfyc;vfvymqhvuabhvocrfbvjmvoqmuvabvtkcpscbabrvrlpjp
tkm vjscvcfpj,vfbhvjscvpsmuckabrvusajcvtqfncpvabvjscvfakvabykcfpchvab
bl ockxvTkm vjscvchrcvmtvjscvpcfvyf cvfvkazzqcvfbhvusapzckxvOcgmbh
jscpcvqatcqcppvpmlbhpvjscvumkqhvufpvpaqcbjxvPaqcbj?vAjvumlqhvocvsfkhvjm
ymb.cgvjscvpjaqqbcppvmtvajxvFqqvjscvpmlbhpvmtv fb,vjscvoqcfjabrvmt
psccz,vjscvykacpvmtvoakhp,vjscvsl vmtvabpcyjp,vjscvpjakvjsfjv fncpvjsc
ofynrkmlbhvmtvmlkvqa.cp—fqqvjsfjvufpvm.ckxvFpvjscvhfknbcppvjsayncbch,
jscvchhgabrvtqfncpvrkcuv mkcvfolbhfbj,vhfbyabrvoctmkcv gvcgcp;vfbhvjsc
ymqhvmtvjscvfakv mkcvabjcbpcxvFjvqfpj,vmbcvogvmbc,vpuatjqg,vmbcvftjck
jscvmjsck,vjscvusajcvzcfnpvmtvjscvhapjfbjvsaqqpv.fbapschvabjm
oqfynbcppxvJscvokccwcvkmpcvjmvfv mfbabrvuabhxvAvpfuvjscvoqfynvycbjkfq
psfhmuvmtvjscvcyqazpcvpucczabrvjmufkhpv cxvAbvfbmjsckv m cbjvjscvzfqc
pjfkpvfqmbcvuckcv.apaoqcxvFqqvcqpcvufpvkfgqcppvmopylkajgxvJscvpngvufp
fopmqljcqgvoqfynx

“Fvsmkkmkvmtvjsapvrkcfjvhfknbcppvyf cvmbv cxvJscvymqh,vjsfjvp mjcvjmv g
 fkkmu,vfbhvjscvzfabvAvtcqjvabvokcfjsabr,vm.ckyf cv cxvAvpsa.ckch,vfbh
fvhcfhqgvbflpcfvpcawchv cxvJscbvqancvfvkch-smjvomuvabvjscvpngvfzzcfkch
jscvchrcvmtvjscvplbxvAvrmjvmttvjscv fysabcvjmvkcym.ckv gpcqtxvAvtcqj
rahhgvfbhvabyfzfoqcvmtvtfyabrvjscvkcjlkbvimlkbcgxvFpvAvpjmmhvpaynvfbh
ymbtlpchvAvpfuvfrfabvjscv m.abrvjsabrvlzmbvjscvpsmfq—jsckcvufpvbm
 apjfncvbmuvjsfjvajvufpvfv m.abrvjsabr—frfabpjvjscvkchvufjckvmtvjsc
pcfxvAjvufpvfvkmlbhvjsabr,vjscvpawcvmtvfvtmmjofqqvzcksfzp,vmk,vajv fg
oc,voarrck,vfbhvjcbjfyqcpvjkfaqchvhmubvtkm vaj;vajvpcc chvoqfynvfrfabpj
jscvucqjckabrvoqmmh-kchvufjck,vfbhvajvufpvsmzzabrvtajtlqqgvfomljxvJscb
AvtcqjvAvufpvtfabjabrxvOljvfvjckkaoqcvhkcfhvmtvqgabrvscqzqcppvabvjsfj
kc mjcvfbhvfutlqvjuaqarsjvplpjfabchv cvusaqcvAvyqf ockchvlzmbvjsc
pfhhqcx



vE.


vJscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’pvKcjlkb

“PmvAvyf cvofynxvTmkvfvqmbrvja cvAv lpjvsf.cvoccbvabpcbpaoqcvlzmbvjsc
 fysabcxvJscvoqabnabrvplyycppambvmtvjscvhfgpvfbhvbarsjpvufpvkcpl ch,
jscvplbvrmjvrmqhcbvfrfab,vjscvpngvoqlcxvAvokcfjschvuajsvrkcfjck
tkcchm xvJscvtqlyjlfjabrvymbjmlkpvmtvjscvqfbhvcoochvfbhvtqmuchxvJsc
sfbhpvpzlbvofynufkhvlzmbvjscvhafqpxvFjvqfpjvAvpfuvfrfabvjscvha vpsfhmup
mtvsmlpcp,vjscvc.ahcbycpvmtvhcyfhcbjvsl fbajgxvJscpc,vjmm,vysfbrchvfbh
zfppch,vfbhvmjsckpvyf cxvZkcpcbjqg,vuscbvjscv aqqambvhafqvufpvfjvwckm,
AvpqfyncbchvpzcchxvAvocrfbvjmvkcymrbapcvmlkvmubvzkcjjgvfbhvtf aqafk
fkysajcyjlkc,vjscvjsmlpfbhpvsfbhvkfbvofynvjmvjscvpjfkjabr-zmabj,vjsc
barsjvfbhvhfgvtqfzzchvpqmuckvfbhvpqmuckxvJscbvjscvmqhvufqqpvmtvjsc
qfomkfjmkgvyf cvkmlbhv cxv.ckgvrcbjqg,vbmu,vAvpqmuchvjscv cysfbap 
hmubx

“Avpfuvmbcvqajjqcvjsabrvjsfjvpcc chvmhhvjmv cxvAvjsabnvAvsf.cvjmqhvgml
jsfjvuscbvAvpcjvmlj,voctmkcv gv.cqmyajgvocyf cv.ckgvsars,v kpxvUfjyscjj
sfhvufqnchvfykmppvjscvkmm ,vjkf.cqqabr,vfpvajvpcc chvjmv c,vqancvf
kmyncjxvFpvAvkcjlkbch,vAvzfppchvfrfabvfykmppvjsfjv abljcvuscbvpsc
jkf.ckpchvjscvqfomkfjmkgxvOljvbmuvsckvc.ckgv mjambvfzzcfkchvjmvocvjsc
cefyjvab.ckpambvmtvsckvzkc.amlpvmbcpxvJscvhmmkvfjvjscvqmuckvcbhvmzcbch,
fbhvpscvrqahchvdlacjqgvlzvjscvqfomkfjmkg,vofynvtmkc mpj,vfbh
hapfzzcfkchvocsabhvjscvhmmkvogvusaysvpscvsfhvzkc.amlpqgvcbjckchxvIlpj
octmkcvjsfjvAvpcc chvjmvpccvSaqqgckvtmkvfv m cbj;voljvscvzfppchvqancvf
tqfpsx

“JscbvAvpjmzzchvjscv fysabc,vfbhvpfuvfomljv cvfrfabvjscvmqhvtf aqafk
qfomkfjmkg,v gvjmmqp,v gvfzzqafbycpvilpjvfpvAvsfhvqctjvjsc xvAvrmjvmtt
jscvjsabrv.ckgvpsfnaqg,vfbhvpfjvhmubvlzmbv gvocbysxvTmkvpc.ckfqv abljcp
Avjkc oqchv.amqcbjqgxvJscbvAvocyf cvyfq ckxvFkmlbhv cvufpv gvmqh
umknpsmzvfrfab,vcefyjqgvfpvajvsfhvoccbxvAv arsjvsf.cvpqczjvjsckc,vfbh
jscvusmqcvjsabrvsf.cvoccbvfvhkcf x

“Fbhvgcj,vbmjvcefyjqg!vJscvjsabrvsfhvpjfkjchvtkm vjscvpmljs-cfpjvymkbck
mtvjscvqfomkfjmkgxvAjvsfhvym cvjmvkcpjvfrfabvabvjscvbmkjs-ucpj,vfrfabpj
jscvufqqvusckcvgmlvpfuvajxvJsfjvra.cpvgmlvjscvcefyjvhapjfbycvtkm v g
qajjqcvqfubvjmvjscvzchcpjfqvmtvjscvUsajcvPzsabe,vabjmvusaysvjsc
 mkqmynpvsfhvyfkkachv gv fysabcx

“Tmkvfvja cv gvokfabvucbjvpjfrbfbjxvZkcpcbjqgvAvrmjvlzvfbhvyf cvjskmlrs
jscvzfppfrcvsckc,vqa zabr,vocyflpcv gvsccqvufpvpjaqqvzfabtlq,vfbh
tccqabrvpmkcqgvocrka chxvAvpfuvjscv_Zfqqv fqqvRfwcjjc_vmbvjscvjfoqcvog
jscvhmmkxvAvtmlbhvjscvhfjcvufpvabhcchvjmhfg,vfbhvqmmnabrvfjvjsc
ja czacyc,vpfuvjscvsmlkvufpvfq mpjvcarsjvm’yqmynxvAvscfkhvgmlkv.maycp
fbhvjscvyqfjjckvmtvzqfjcpxvAvscpajfjch—AvtcqjvpmvpaynvfbhvucfnxvJscbvA
pbattchvrmmhvusmqcpm cv cfj,vfbhvmzcbchvjscvhmmkvmbvgmlxvGmlvnbmuvjsc
kcpjxvAvufpsch,vfbhvhabch,vfbhvbmuvAvf vjcqqabrvgmlvjscvpjmkgx



vE.A


vFtjckvjscvPjmkg

“Avnbmu,”vscvpfah,vftjckvfvzflpc,v“jsfjvfqqvjsapvuaqqvocvfopmqljcqg
abykchaoqcvjmvgml,voljvjmv cvjscvmbcvabykchaoqcvjsabrvapvjsfjvAvf vsckc
jmbarsjvabvjsapvmqhvtf aqafkvkmm vqmmnabrvabjmvgmlkvtkacbhqgvtfycpvfbh
jcqqabrvgmlvjscpcvpjkfbrcvfh.cbjlkcpx”vScvqmmnchvfjvjscv chayfqv fbx
“BmxvAvyfbbmjvcezcyjvgmlvjmvocqac.cvajxvJfncvajvfpvfvqac—mkvfvzkmzscygx
PfgvAvhkcf chvajvabvjscvumknpsmzxvYmbpahckvAvsf.cvoccbvpzcylqfjabrvlzmb
jscvhcpjabacpvmtvmlkvkfyc,vlbjaqvAvsf.cvsfjyschvjsapvtayjambxvJkcfjv g
fppckjambvmtvajpvjkljsvfpvfv ckcvpjkmncvmtvfkjvjmvcbsfbycvajpvabjckcpjx
Fbhvjfnabrvajvfpvfvpjmkg,vusfjvhmvgmlvjsabnvmtvaj?”

Scvjmmnvlzvsapvzazc,vfbhvocrfb,vabvsapvmqhvfyylpjm chv fbbck,vjmvjfz
uajsvajvbck.mlpqgvlzmbvjscvofkpvmtvjscvrkfjcxvJsckcvufpvfv m cbjfkg
pjaqqbcppxvJscbvysfakpvocrfbvjmvykcfnvfbhvpsmcpvjmvpykfzcvlzmbvjsc
yfkzcjxvAvjmmnv gvcgcpvmttvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’pvtfyc,vfbhvqmmnchvkmlbh
fjvsapvflhacbycxvJscgvuckcvabvjscvhfkn,vfbhvqajjqcvpzmjpvmtvymqmlkvpuf 
octmkcvjsc xvJscv chayfqv fbvpcc chvfopmkochvabvjscvymbjc zqfjambvmt
mlkvsmpjxvJscvChajmkvufpvqmmnabrvsfkhvfjvjscvcbhvmtvsapvyarfk—jsc
paejsxvJscvImlkbfqapjvtl oqchvtmkvsapvufjysxvJscvmjsckp,vfpvtfkvfpvA
kc c ock,vuckcv mjambqcppx

JscvChajmkvpjmmhvlzvuajsvfvparsxv“Usfjvfvzajgvajvapvgml’kcvbmjvfvukajck
mtvpjmkacp!”vscvpfah,vzljjabrvsapvsfbhvmbvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck’p
psmlqhckx

“Gmlvhmb’jvocqac.cvaj?”

“Ucqq——”

“Avjsmlrsjvbmjx”

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvjlkbchvjmvlpxv“Usckcvfkcvjscv fjyscp?”vscvpfahxvSc
qajvmbcvfbhvpzmncvm.ckvsapvzazc,vzlttabrxv“JmvjcqqvgmlvjscvjkljsxxxvA
sfkhqgvocqac.cvajv gpcqtxxxxxvFbhvgcjxxx”

Sapvcgcvtcqqvuajsvfv ljcvabdlakgvlzmbvjscvuajsckchvusajcvtqmuckpvlzmb
jscvqajjqcvjfoqcxvJscbvscvjlkbchvm.ckvjscvsfbhvsmqhabrvsapvzazc,vfbhvA
pfuvscvufpvqmmnabrvfjvpm cvsfqt-scfqchvpyfkpvmbvsapvnblynqcpx

Jscv chayfqv fbvkmpc,vyf cvjmvjscvqf z,vfbhvcef abchvjscvtqmuckpxv“Jsc
rgbæycl ’pvmhh,”vscvpfahxvJscvZpgysmqmrapjvqcfbjvtmkufkhvjmvpcc,
smqhabrvmljvsapvsfbhvtmkvfvpzcya cbx

“A’ vsfbrchvatvajvapb’jvfvdlfkjckvjmvmbc,”vpfahvjscvImlkbfqapjxv“Smu
psfqqvucvrcjvsm c?”

“Zqcbjgvmtvyfopvfjvjscvpjfjamb,”vpfahvjscvZpgysmqmrapjx

“Aj’pvfvylkamlpvjsabr,”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fb;v“oljvAvyckjfabqgvhmb’j
nbmuvjscvbfjlkfqvmkhckvmtvjscpcvtqmuckpxv fgvAvsf.cvjsc ?”

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvscpajfjchxvJscbvplhhcbqg:v“Yckjfabqgvbmjx”

“Usckcvhahvgmlvkcfqqgvrcjvjsc ?”vpfahvjscv chayfqv fbx

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvzljvsapvsfbhvjmvsapvscfhxvScvpzmncvqancvmbcvusmvufp
jkgabrvjmvncczvsmqhvmtvfbvahcfvjsfjvcqlhchvsa xv“Jscgvuckcvzljvabjmv g
zmyncjvogvUccbf,vuscbvAvjkf.cqqchvabjmvJa cx”vScvpjfkchvkmlbhvjscvkmm x
“A’ vhf bchvatvajvapb’jvfqqvrmabrxvJsapvkmm vfbhvgmlvfbhvjscvfj mpzsckc
mtvc.ckgvhfgvapvjmmv lysvtmkv gv c mkgxvHahvAvc.ckv fncvfvJa cv fysabc,
mkvfv mhcqvmtvfvJa cv fysabc?vMkvapvajvfqqvmbqgvfvhkcf ?vJscgvpfgvqatc
apvfvhkcf ,vfvzkcyamlpvzmmkvhkcf vfjvja cp—oljvAvyfb’jvpjfbhvfbmjsck
jsfjvumb’jvtajxvAj’pv fhbcppxvFbhvusckcvhahvjscvhkcf vym cvtkm ?v…vA
 lpjvqmmnvfjvjsfjv fysabcxvAtvjsckcvapvmbc!”

Scvyflrsjvlzvjscvqf zvpuatjqg,vfbhvyfkkachvaj,vtqfkabrvkch,vjskmlrsvjsc
hmmkvabjmvjscvymkkahmkxvUcvtmqqmuchvsa xvJsckcvabvjscvtqaynckabrvqarsj
mtvjscvqf zvufpvjscv fysabcvplkcvcbmlrs,vpdlfj,vlrqg,vfbhvfpncu,vf
jsabrvmtvokfpp,vcombg,va.mkg,vfbhvjkfbpqlycbjvrqa  ckabrvdlfkjwxvPmqah
jmvjscvjmlys—tmkvAvzljvmljv gvsfbhvfbhvtcqjvjscvkfaqvmtvaj—fbhvuajs
okmubvpzmjpvfbhvp cfkpvlzmbvjscva.mkg,vfbhvoajpvmtvrkfppvfbhv mppvlzmb
jscvqmuckvzfkjp,vfbhvmbcvkfaqvocbjvfukgx

JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvzljvjscvqf zvhmubvmbvjscvocbys,vfbhvkfbvsapvsfbh
fqmbrvjscvhf frchvkfaqxv“Aj’pvfqqvkarsjvbmu,”vscvpfahxv“JscvpjmkgvA
jmqhvgmlvufpvjklcxvA’ vpmkkgvjmvsf.cvokmlrsjvgmlvmljvsckcvabvjscvymqhx”
Scvjmmnvlzvjscvqf z,vfbh,vabvfbvfopmqljcvpaqcbyc,vucvkcjlkbchvjmvjsc
p mnabr-kmm x

Scvyf cvabjmvjscvsfqqvuajsvlpvfbhvscqzchvjscvChajmkvmbvuajsvsapvymfjx
Jscv chayfqv fbvqmmnchvabjmvsapvtfycvfbh,vuajsvfvyckjfabvscpajfjamb,
jmqhvsa vscvufpvplttckabrvtkm vm.ckumkn,vfjvusaysvscvqflrschvslrcqgxvA
kc c ockvsa vpjfbhabrvabvjscvmzcbvhmmkufg,vofuqabrvrmmh-barsjx

AvpsfkchvfvyfovuajsvjscvChajmkxvScvjsmlrsjvjscvjfqcvfv“rflhgvqacx”vTmk
 gvmubvzfkjvAvufpvlbfoqcvjmvym cvjmvfvymbyqlpambxvJscvpjmkgvufpvpm
tfbjfpjayvfbhvabykchaoqc,vjscvjcqqabrvpmvykchaoqcvfbhvpmockxvAvqfg
fufncv mpjvmtvjscvbarsjvjsabnabrvfomljvajxvAvhcjck abchvjmvrmvbcejvhfg
fbhvpccvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvfrfabxvAvufpvjmqhvscvufpvabvjscvqfomkfjmkg,
fbhvocabrvmbvcfpgvjck pvabvjscvsmlpc,vAvucbjvlzvjmvsa xvJscvqfomkfjmkg,
smuc.ck,vufpvc zjgxvAvpjfkchvtmkvfv abljcvfjvjscvJa cv fysabcvfbhvzlj
mljv gvsfbhvfbhvjmlyschvjscvqc.ckxvFjvjsfjvjscvpdlfj
plopjfbjafq-qmmnabrv fppvpufgchvqancvfvomlrsvpsfncbvogvjscvuabhxvAjp
abpjfoaqajgvpjfkjqchv cvcejkc cqg,vfbhvAvsfhvfvdlcckvkc abapycbycvmt
jscvysaqhapsvhfgpvuscbvAvlpchvjmvocvtmkoahhcbvjmv chhqcxvAvyf cvofyn
jskmlrsvjscvymkkahmkxvJscvJa cvJkf.cqqckv cjv cvabvjscvp mnabr-kmm xvSc
ufpvym abrvtkm vjscvsmlpcxvScvsfhvfvp fqqvyf ckfvlbhckvmbcvfk vfbhvf
nbfzpfynvlbhckvjscvmjsckxvScvqflrschvuscbvscvpfuv c,vfbhvrf.cv cvfb
cqomuvjmvpsfncxv“A’ vtkarsjtlqqgvolpg,”vpfahvsc,v“uajsvjsfjvjsabrvab
jsckcx”

“Oljvapvajvbmjvpm cvsmfe?”vAvpfahxv“Hmvgmlvkcfqqgvjkf.cqvjskmlrsvja c?”

“KcfqqgvfbhvjklqgvAvhmx”vFbhvscvqmmnchvtkfbnqgvabjmv gvcgcpxvSc
scpajfjchxvSapvcgcvufbhckchvfomljvjscvkmm xv“Avmbqgvufbjvsfqtvfbvsmlk,”
scvpfahxv“Avnbmuvusgvgmlvyf c,vfbhvaj’pvfutlqqgvrmmhvmtvgmlxvJsckc’p
pm cv frfwabcpvsckcxvAtvgml’qqvpjmzvjmvqlbysvA’qqvzkm.cvgmlvjsapvja c
jkf.cqqabrvlzvjmvjscvsaqj,vpzcya cbpvfbhvfqqxvAtvgml’qqvtmkra.cv g
qcf.abrvgmlvbmu?”

Avymbpcbjch,vsfkhqgvym zkcscbhabrvjscbvjscvtlqqva zmkjvmtvsapvumkhp,
fbhvscvbmhhchvfbhvucbjvmbvhmubvjscvymkkahmkxvAvscfkhvjscvhmmkvmtvjsc
qfomkfjmkgvpqf ,vpcfjchv gpcqtvabvfvysfak,vfbhvjmmnvlzvfvhfaqgvzfzckx
Usfjvufpvscvrmabrvjmvhmvoctmkcvqlbys-ja c?vJscbvplhhcbqgvAvufpvkc abhch
ogvfbvfh.ckjapc cbjvjsfjvAvsfhvzkm apchvjmv ccjvKaysfkhpmb,vjsc
zloqapsck,vfjvjumxvAvqmmnchvfjv gvufjys,vfbhvpfuvjsfjvAvymlqhvofkcqg
pf.cvjsfjvcbrfrc cbjxvAvrmjvlzvfbhvucbjvhmubvjscvzfppfrcvjmvjcqqvjsc
Ja cvJkf.cqqckx

FpvAvjmmnvsmqhvmtvjscvsfbhqcvmtvjscvhmmkvAvscfkhvfbvceyqf fjamb,vmhhqg
jklbyfjchvfjvjscvcbh,vfbhvfvyqaynvfbhvfvjslhxvFvrlpjvmtvfakvusakqch
kmlbhv cvfpvAvmzcbchvjscvhmmk,vfbhvtkm vuajsabvyf cvjscvpmlbhvmtvokmncb
rqfppvtfqqabrvmbvjscvtqmmkxvJscvJa cvJkf.cqqckvufpvbmjvjsckcxvAvpcc ch
jmvpccvfvrsmpjqg,vabhapjabyjvtarlkcvpajjabrvabvfvusakqabrv fppvmtvoqfyn
fbhvokfppvtmkvfv m cbj—fvtarlkcvpmvjkfbpzfkcbjvjsfjvjscvocbysvocsabh
uajsvajpvpsccjpvmtvhkfuabrpvufpvfopmqljcqgvhapjabyj;voljvjsapvzsfbjfp 
.fbapschvfpvAvkloochv gvcgcpxvJscvJa cv fysabcvsfhvrmbcxvPf.cvtmkvf
plopahabrvpjakvmtvhlpj,vjscvtlkjsckvcbhvmtvjscvqfomkfjmkgvufpvc zjgxvF
zfbcvmtvjscvpngqarsjvsfh,vfzzfkcbjqg,vilpjvoccbvoqmubvabx

Avtcqjvfbvlbkcfpmbfoqcvf fwc cbjxvAvnbcuvjsfjvpm cjsabrvpjkfbrcvsfh
sfzzcbch,vfbhvtmkvjscv m cbjvymlqhvbmjvhapjabrlapsvusfjvjscvpjkfbrc
jsabrv arsjvocxvFpvAvpjmmhvpjfkabr,vjscvhmmkvabjmvjscvrfkhcbvmzcbch,
fbhvjscv fb-pck.fbjvfzzcfkchx

UcvqmmnchvfjvcfysvmjsckxvJscbvahcfpvocrfbvjmvym cxv“Sfpv kxv——vrmbcvmlj
jsfjvufg?”vpfahvAx

“Bm,vpakxvBmvmbcvsfpvym cvmljvjsapvufgxvAvufpvcezcyjabrvjmvtabhvsa 
sckcx”

FjvjsfjvAvlbhckpjmmhxvFjvjscvkapnvmtvhapfzzmabjabrvKaysfkhpmbvAvpjfgch
mb,vufajabrvtmkvjscvJa cvJkf.cqqck;vufajabrvtmkvjscvpcymbh,vzcksfzp
pjaqqvpjkfbrckvpjmkg,vfbhvjscvpzcya cbpvfbhvzsmjmrkfzspvscvumlqhvokabr
uajsvsa xvOljvAvf vocrabbabrvbmuvjmvtcfkvjsfjvAv lpjvufajvfvqatcja cx
JscvJa cvJkf.cqqckv.fbapschvjskccvgcfkpvfrmxvFbh,vfpvc.ckgomhgvnbmup
bmu,vscvsfpvbc.ckvkcjlkbchx



vCzaqmrlc

MbcvyfbbmjvysmmpcvoljvumbhckxvUaqqvscvc.ckvkcjlkb?vAjv fgvocvjsfjvsc
puczjvofynvabjmvjscvzfpj,vfbhvtcqqvf mbrvjscvoqmmh-hkabnabr,vsfakg
pf.frcpvmtvjscvFrcvmtvLbzmqapschvPjmbc;vabjmvjscvfogppcpvmtvjsc
YkcjfycmlpvPcf;vmkvf mbrvjscvrkmjcpdlcvpflkafbp,vjscvslrcvkczjaqafb
okljcpvmtvjscvIlkfppayvja cpxvScv fgvc.cbvbmu—atvAv fgvlpcvjsc
zskfpc—ocvufbhckabrvmbvpm cvzqcpampflklp-sflbjchvMmqajayvymkfqvkcct,vmk
ocpahcvjscvqmbcqgvpfqabcvpcfpvmtvjscvJkafppayvFrcxvMkvhahvscvrm
tmkufkh,vabjmvmbcvmtvjscvbcfkckvfrcp,vabvusaysv cbvfkcvpjaqqv cb,volj
uajsvjscvkahhqcpvmtvmlkvmubvja cvfbpuckchvfbhvajpvucfkapm cvzkmoqc p
pmq.ch?vAbjmvjscv fbsmmhvmtvjscvkfyc:vtmkvA,vtmkv gvmubvzfkj,vyfbbmj
jsabnvjsfjvjscpcvqfjjckvhfgpvmtvucfnvcezcka cbj,vtkfr cbjfkgvjscmkg,
fbhv ljlfqvhapymkhvfkcvabhcchv fb’pvylq abfjabrvja c!vAvpfg,vtmkv gvmub
zfkjxvSc,vAvnbmu—tmkvjscvdlcpjambvsfhvoccbvhapylppchvf mbrvlpvqmbr
octmkcvjscvJa cv fysabcvufpv fhc—jsmlrsjvoljvyscckqcppqgvmtvjsc
Fh.fbyc cbjvmtv fbnabh,vfbhvpfuvabvjscvrkmuabrvzaqcvmtvya.aqapfjamb
mbqgvfvtmmqapsvscfzabrvjsfjv lpjvabc.ajfoqgvtfqqvofynvlzmbvfbhvhcpjkmg
ajpv fnckpvabvjscvcbhxvAtvjsfjvapvpm,vajvkc fabpvtmkvlpvjmvqa.cvfp
jsmlrsvajvuckcvbmjvpmxvOljvjmv cvjscvtljlkcvapvpjaqqvoqfynvfbhvoqfbn—ap
fv.fpjvarbmkfbyc,vqajvfjvfvtcuvyfplfqvzqfycpvogvjscv c mkgvmtvsap
pjmkgxvFbhvAvsf.cvogv c,vtmkv gvym tmkj,vjumvpjkfbrcvusajc
tqmuckp—pska.cqqchvbmu,vfbhvokmubvfbhvtqfjvfbhvokajjqc—jmvuajbcppvjsfj
c.cbvuscbv abhvfbhvpjkcbrjsvsfhvrmbc,vrkfjajlhcvfbhvfv ljlfqvjcbhckbcpp
pjaqqvqa.chvmbvabvjscvscfkjvmtv fbx






CbhvmtvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvCOmmnvmtvJscvJa cv fysabc,vogvSxvRxvUcqqp

***vCBHvMTvJSAPvZKMICYJvRLJCBOCKRvCOMMNvJSCvJA Cv FYSABCv***

*****vJsapvtaqcvpsmlqhvocvbf chv35-0xjejvmkv35-0xwazv*****
Jsapvfbhvfqqvfppmyafjchvtaqcpvmtv.fkamlpvtmk fjpvuaqqvocvtmlbhvab:
vvvvvvvvsjjz://uuuxrljcbockrxmkr/3/35/

Lzhfjchvchajambpvuaqqvkczqfycvjscvzkc.amlpvmbc--jscvmqhvchajambpvuaqq
ocvkcbf chx

Ykcfjabrvjscvumknpvtkm vzkabjvchajambpvbmjvzkmjcyjchvogvLxPxvymzgkarsj
qfuv cfbpvjsfjvbmvmbcvmubpvfvLbajchvPjfjcpvymzgkarsjvabvjscpcvumknp,
pmvjscvTmlbhfjambv(fbhvgml!)vyfbvymzgvfbhvhapjkaoljcvajvabvjscvLbajch
Pjfjcpvuajsmljvzck appambvfbhvuajsmljvzfgabrvymzgkarsj
kmgfqjacpxvPzcyafqvklqcp,vpcjvtmkjsvabvjscvRcbckfqvJck pvmtvLpcvzfkj
mtvjsapvqaycbpc,vfzzqgvjmvymzgabrvfbhvhapjkaoljabrvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpvjmvzkmjcyjvjscvZKMICYJvRLJCBOCKR-j 
ymbyczjvfbhvjkfhc fknxvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvapvfvkcrapjckchvjkfhc fkn,
fbhv fgvbmjvocvlpchvatvgmlvysfkrcvtmkvjscvcOmmnp,vlbqcppvgmlvkcyca.c
pzcyatayvzck appambxvAtvgmlvhmvbmjvysfkrcvfbgjsabrvtmkvymzacpvmtvjsap
cOmmn,vym zqgabrvuajsvjscvklqcpvapv.ckgvcfpgxvGmlv fgvlpcvjsapvcOmmn
tmkvbcfkqgvfbgvzlkzmpcvplysvfpvykcfjambvmtvhcka.fja.cvumknp,vkczmkjp,
zcktmk fbycpvfbhvkcpcfkysxvJscgv fgvocv mhatachvfbhvzkabjchvfbhvra.cb
fufg--gmlv fgvhmvzkfyjayfqqgvFBGJSABRvabvjscvLbajchvPjfjcpvuajsvcOmmnp
bmjvzkmjcyjchvogvLxPxvymzgkarsjvqfuxvKchapjkaoljambvapvploicyjvjmvjsc
jkfhc fknvqaycbpc,vcpzcyafqqgvym  ckyafqvkchapjkaoljambx

PJFKJ:vTLQQvQAYCBPC

JSCvTLQQvZKMICYJvRLJCBOCKRvQAYCBPC
ZQCFPCvKCFHvJSAPvOCTMKCvGMLvHAPJKAOLJCvMKvLPCvJSAPvUMKN

JmvzkmjcyjvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j v appambvmtvzkm mjabrvjscvtkcc
hapjkaoljambvmtvcqcyjkmbayvumknp,vogvlpabrvmkvhapjkaoljabrvjsapvumkn
(mkvfbgvmjsckvumknvfppmyafjchvabvfbgvufgvuajsvjscvzskfpcv"Zkmicyj
Rljcbockr"),vgmlvfrkccvjmvym zqgvuajsvfqqvjscvjck pvmtvjscvTlqq
ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vQaycbpcvf.faqfoqcvuajsvjsapvtaqcvmkvmbqabcvfj
uuuxrljcbockrxmkr/qaycbpcx

Pcyjambv1xvRcbckfqvJck pvmtvLpcvfbhvKchapjkaoljabrvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknp

1xFxvOgvkcfhabrvmkvlpabrvfbgvzfkjvmtvjsapvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
cqcyjkmbayvumkn,vgmlvabhayfjcvjsfjvgmlvsf.cvkcfh,vlbhckpjfbh,vfrkccvjm
fbhvfyyczjvfqqvjscvjck pvmtvjsapvqaycbpcvfbhvabjcqqcyjlfqvzkmzckjg
(jkfhc fkn/ymzgkarsj)vfrkcc cbjxvAtvgmlvhmvbmjvfrkccvjmvfoahcvogvfqq
jscvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vgmlv lpjvycfpcvlpabrvfbhvkcjlkbvmk
hcpjkmgvfqqvymzacpvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpvabvgmlk
zmppcppambxvAtvgmlvzfahvfvtccvtmkvmojfababrvfvymzgvmtvmkvfyycppvjmvf
ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknvfbhvgmlvhmvbmjvfrkccvjmvocvomlbh
ogvjscvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vgmlv fgvmojfabvfvkctlbhvtkm vjsc
zckpmbvmkvcbjajgvjmvusm vgmlvzfahvjscvtccvfpvpcjvtmkjsvabvzfkfrkfzs
1xCx8x

1xOxv"ZkmicyjvRljcbockr"vapvfvkcrapjckchvjkfhc fknxvAjv fgvmbqgvoc
lpchvmbvmkvfppmyafjchvabvfbgvufgvuajsvfbvcqcyjkmbayvumknvogvzcmzqcvusm
frkccvjmvocvomlbhvogvjscvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjxvJsckcvfkcvfvtcu
jsabrpvjsfjvgmlvyfbvhmvuajsv mpjvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknp
c.cbvuajsmljvym zqgabrvuajsvjscvtlqqvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjxvPcc
zfkfrkfzsv1xYvocqmuxvJsckcvfkcvfvqmjvmtvjsabrpvgmlvyfbvhmvuajsvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpvatvgmlvtmqqmuvjscvjck pvmtvjsap
frkcc cbjvfbhvscqzvzkcpck.cvtkccvtljlkcvfyycppvjmvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
cqcyjkmbayvumknpxvPccvzfkfrkfzsv1xCvocqmux

1xYxvJscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambv("jsc
Tmlbhfjamb"vmkvZRQFT),vmubpvfvym zaqfjambvymzgkarsjvabvjscvymqqcyjamb
mtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpxvBcfkqgvfqqvjscvabha.ahlfq
umknpvabvjscvymqqcyjambvfkcvabvjscvzloqayvhm fabvabvjscvLbajch
PjfjcpxvAtvfbvabha.ahlfqvumknvapvlbzkmjcyjchvogvymzgkarsjvqfuvabvjsc
LbajchvPjfjcpvfbhvgmlvfkcvqmyfjchvabvjscvLbajchvPjfjcp,vucvhmvbmj
yqfa vfvkarsjvjmvzkc.cbjvgmlvtkm vymzgabr,vhapjkaoljabr,vzcktmk abr,
hapzqfgabrvmkvykcfjabrvhcka.fja.cvumknpvofpchvmbvjscvumknvfpvqmbrvfp
fqqvkctckcbycpvjmvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvfkcvkc m.chxvMtvymlkpc,vucvsmzc
jsfjvgmlvuaqqvplzzmkjvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j v appambvmtvzkm mjabr
tkccvfyycppvjmvcqcyjkmbayvumknpvogvtkccqgvpsfkabrvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
umknpvabvym zqafbycvuajsvjscvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjvtmkvncczabrvjsc
ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vbf cvfppmyafjchvuajsvjscvumknxvGmlvyfbvcfpaqg
ym zqgvuajsvjscvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjvogvncczabrvjsapvumknvabvjsc
pf cvtmk fjvuajsvajpvfjjfyschvtlqqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vQaycbpcvuscb
gmlvpsfkcvajvuajsmljvysfkrcvuajsvmjsckpx

1xHxvJscvymzgkarsjvqfupvmtvjscvzqfycvusckcvgmlvfkcvqmyfjchvfqpmvrm.ckb
usfjvgmlvyfbvhmvuajsvjsapvumknxvYmzgkarsjvqfupvabv mpjvymlbjkacpvfkc
abvfvymbpjfbjvpjfjcvmtvysfbrcxvAtvgmlvfkcvmljpahcvjscvLbajchvPjfjcp,
yscynvjscvqfupvmtvgmlkvymlbjkgvabvfhhajambvjmvjscvjck pvmtvjsap
frkcc cbjvoctmkcvhmubqmfhabr,vymzgabr,vhapzqfgabr,vzcktmk abr,
hapjkaoljabrvmkvykcfjabrvhcka.fja.cvumknpvofpchvmbvjsapvumknvmkvfbg
mjsckvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknxvJscvTmlbhfjambv fncpvbm
kczkcpcbjfjambpvymbyckbabrvjscvymzgkarsjvpjfjlpvmtvfbgvumknvabvfbg
ymlbjkgvmljpahcvjscvLbajchvPjfjcpx

1xCxvLbqcppvgmlvsf.cvkc m.chvfqqvkctckcbycpvjmvZkmicyjvRljcbockr:

1xCx1xvJscvtmqqmuabrvpcbjcbyc,vuajsvfyja.cvqabnpvjm,vmkvmjsck
a  chafjcvfyycppvjm,vjscvtlqqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vQaycbpcv lpjvfzzcfk
zkm abcbjqgvuscbc.ckvfbgvymzgvmtvfvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknv(fbgvumkn
mbvusaysvjscvzskfpcv"ZkmicyjvRljcbockr"vfzzcfkp,vmkvuajsvusaysvjsc
zskfpcv"ZkmicyjvRljcbockr"vapvfppmyafjch)vapvfyycppch,vhapzqfgch,
zcktmk ch,v.acuch,vymzachvmkvhapjkaoljch:

vvJsapvcOmmnvapvtmkvjscvlpcvmtvfbgmbcvfbgusckcvabvjscvLbajchvPjfjcpvfbh
vv mpjvmjsckvzfkjpvmtvjscvumkqhvfjvbmvympjvfbhvuajsvfq mpjvbm
vvkcpjkayjambpvusfjpmc.ckxvGmlv fgvymzgvaj,vra.cvajvfufgvmkvkc-lpcvaj
vvlbhckvjscvjck pvmtvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQaycbpcvabyqlhchvuajsvjsap
vvcOmmnvmkvmbqabcvfjvuuuxrljcbockrxmkrxvAtvgmlvfkcvbmjvqmyfjchvabvjsc
vvLbajchvPjfjcp,vgml'qqvsf.cvjmvyscynvjscvqfupvmtvjscvymlbjkgvusckcvgml
vvfkcvqmyfjchvoctmkcvlpabrvjsapvcommnx

1xCx2xvAtvfbvabha.ahlfqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknvap
hcka.chvtkm vjcejpvbmjvzkmjcyjchvogvLxPxvymzgkarsjvqfuv(hmcpvbmj
ymbjfabvfvbmjaycvabhayfjabrvjsfjvajvapvzmpjchvuajsvzck appambvmtvjsc
ymzgkarsjvsmqhck),vjscvumknvyfbvocvymzachvfbhvhapjkaoljchvjmvfbgmbcvab
jscvLbajchvPjfjcpvuajsmljvzfgabrvfbgvtccpvmkvysfkrcpxvAtvgmlvfkc
kchapjkaoljabrvmkvzkm.ahabrvfyycppvjmvfvumknvuajsvjscvzskfpcv"Zkmicyj
Rljcbockr"vfppmyafjchvuajsvmkvfzzcfkabrvmbvjscvumkn,vgmlv lpjvym zqg
cajsckvuajsvjscvkcdlakc cbjpvmtvzfkfrkfzspv1xCx1vjskmlrsv1xCx7vmk
mojfabvzck appambvtmkvjscvlpcvmtvjscvumknvfbhvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
jkfhc fknvfpvpcjvtmkjsvabvzfkfrkfzspv1xCx8vmkv1xCx9x

1xCx3xvAtvfbvabha.ahlfqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknvapvzmpjch
uajsvjscvzck appambvmtvjscvymzgkarsjvsmqhck,vgmlkvlpcvfbhvhapjkaoljamb
 lpjvym zqgvuajsvomjsvzfkfrkfzspv1xCx1vjskmlrsv1xCx7vfbhvfbg
fhhajambfqvjck pva zmpchvogvjscvymzgkarsjvsmqhckxvFhhajambfqvjck p
uaqqvocvqabnchvjmvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vQaycbpcvtmkvfqqvumknp
zmpjchvuajsvjscvzck appambvmtvjscvymzgkarsjvsmqhckvtmlbhvfjvjsc
ocrabbabrvmtvjsapvumknx

1xCx4xvHmvbmjvlbqabnvmkvhcjfysvmkvkc m.cvjscvtlqqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
Qaycbpcvjck pvtkm vjsapvumkn,vmkvfbgvtaqcpvymbjfababrvfvzfkjvmtvjsap
umknvmkvfbgvmjsckvumknvfppmyafjchvuajsvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j x

1xCx5xvHmvbmjvymzg,vhapzqfg,vzcktmk ,vhapjkaoljcvmkvkchapjkaoljcvjsap
cqcyjkmbayvumkn,vmkvfbgvzfkjvmtvjsapvcqcyjkmbayvumkn,vuajsmlj
zkm abcbjqgvhapzqfgabrvjscvpcbjcbycvpcjvtmkjsvabvzfkfrkfzsv1xCx1vuajs
fyja.cvqabnpvmkva  chafjcvfyycppvjmvjscvtlqqvjck pvmtvjscvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vQaycbpcx

1xCx6xvGmlv fgvymb.ckjvjmvfbhvhapjkaoljcvjsapvumknvabvfbgvoabfkg,
ym zkcppch,v fknchvlz,vbmbzkmzkacjfkgvmkvzkmzkacjfkgvtmk ,vabyqlhabr
fbgvumkhvzkmycppabrvmkvsgzckjcejvtmk xvSmuc.ck,vatvgmlvzkm.ahcvfyycpp
jmvmkvhapjkaoljcvymzacpvmtvfvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknvabvfvtmk fj
mjsckvjsfbv"Zqfabv.fbaqqfvFPYAA"vmkvmjsckvtmk fjvlpchvabvjscvmttayafq
.ckpambvzmpjchvmbvjscvmttayafqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vucovpajc
(uuuxrljcbockrxmkr),vgmlv lpj,vfjvbmvfhhajambfqvympj,vtccvmkvcezcbpc
jmvjscvlpck,vzkm.ahcvfvymzg,vfv cfbpvmtvcezmkjabrvfvymzg,vmkvfv cfbp
mtvmojfababrvfvymzgvlzmbvkcdlcpj,vmtvjscvumknvabvajpvmkarabfqv"Zqfab
.fbaqqfvFPYAA"vmkvmjsckvtmk xvFbgvfqjckbfjcvtmk fjv lpjvabyqlhcvjsc
tlqqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vQaycbpcvfpvpzcyatachvabvzfkfrkfzsv1xCx1x

1xCx7xvHmvbmjvysfkrcvfvtccvtmkvfyycppvjm,v.acuabr,vhapzqfgabr,
zcktmk abr,vymzgabrvmkvhapjkaoljabrvfbgvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknp
lbqcppvgmlvym zqgvuajsvzfkfrkfzsv1xCx8vmkv1xCx9x

1xCx8xvGmlv fgvysfkrcvfvkcfpmbfoqcvtccvtmkvymzacpvmtvmkvzkm.ahabr
fyycppvjmvmkvhapjkaoljabrvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknp
zkm.ahchvjsfj

*vGmlvzfgvfvkmgfqjgvtccvmtv20%vmtvjscvrkmppvzkmtajpvgmlvhcka.cvtkm 
vvjscvlpcvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknpvyfqylqfjchvlpabrvjscv cjsmh
vvgmlvfqkcfhgvlpcvjmvyfqylqfjcvgmlkvfzzqayfoqcvjfecpxvJscvtccvapvmuch
vvjmvjscvmubckvmtvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vjkfhc fkn,voljvscvsfp
vvfrkcchvjmvhmbfjcvkmgfqjacpvlbhckvjsapvzfkfrkfzsvjmvjscvZkmicyj
vvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambxvKmgfqjgvzfg cbjpv lpjvocvzfah
vvuajsabv60vhfgpvtmqqmuabrvcfysvhfjcvmbvusaysvgmlvzkczfkcv(mkvfkc
vvqcrfqqgvkcdlakchvjmvzkczfkc)vgmlkvzckamhayvjfevkcjlkbpxvKmgfqjg
vvzfg cbjpvpsmlqhvocvyqcfkqgv fknchvfpvplysvfbhvpcbjvjmvjscvZkmicyj
vvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvfjvjscvfhhkcppvpzcyatachvab
vvPcyjambv4,v"Abtmk fjambvfomljvhmbfjambpvjmvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr
vvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambx"

*vGmlvzkm.ahcvfvtlqqvkctlbhvmtvfbgv mbcgvzfahvogvfvlpckvusmvbmjatacp
vvgmlvabvukajabrv(mkvogvc- faq)vuajsabv30vhfgpvmtvkcycazjvjsfjvp/sc
vvhmcpvbmjvfrkccvjmvjscvjck pvmtvjscvtlqqvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
vvQaycbpcxvGmlv lpjvkcdlakcvplysvfvlpckvjmvkcjlkbvmkvhcpjkmgvfqq
vvymzacpvmtvjscvumknpvzmppcppchvabvfvzsgpayfqv chal vfbhvhapymbjablc
vvfqqvlpcvmtvfbhvfqqvfyycppvjmvmjsckvymzacpvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
vvumknpx

*vGmlvzkm.ahc,vabvfyymkhfbycvuajsvzfkfrkfzsv1xTx3,vfvtlqqvkctlbhvmt
vvfbgv mbcgvzfahvtmkvfvumknvmkvfvkczqfyc cbjvymzg,vatvfvhctcyjvabvjsc
vvcqcyjkmbayvumknvapvhapym.ckchvfbhvkczmkjchvjmvgmlvuajsabv90vhfgpvmt
vvkcycazjvmtvjscvumknx

*vGmlvym zqgvuajsvfqqvmjsckvjck pvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjvtmkvtkcc
vvhapjkaoljambvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumknpx

1xCx9xvAtvgmlvuapsvjmvysfkrcvfvtccvmkvhapjkaoljcvfvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknvmkvrkmlzvmtvumknpvmbvhattckcbjvjck pvjsfb
fkcvpcjvtmkjsvabvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vgmlv lpjvmojfabvzck appambvabvukajabr
tkm vomjsvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvfbhvJsc
ZkmicyjvRljcbockrvJkfhc fknvQQY,vjscvmubckvmtvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
jkfhc fknxvYmbjfyjvjscvTmlbhfjambvfpvpcjvtmkjsvabvPcyjambv3vocqmux

1xTx

1xTx1xvZkmicyjvRljcbockrv.mqlbjcckpvfbhvc zqmgccpvcezcbhvymbpahckfoqc
cttmkjvjmvahcbjatg,vhmvymzgkarsjvkcpcfkysvmb,vjkfbpykaocvfbhvzkmmtkcfh
umknpvbmjvzkmjcyjchvogvLxPxvymzgkarsjvqfuvabvykcfjabrvjscvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vymqqcyjambxvHcpzajcvjscpcvcttmkjp,vZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
cqcyjkmbayvumknp,vfbhvjscv chal vmbvusaysvjscgv fgvocvpjmkch,v fg
ymbjfabv"Hctcyjp,"vplysvfp,voljvbmjvqa ajchvjm,vabym zqcjc,vabfyylkfjc
mkvymkklzjvhfjf,vjkfbpykazjambvckkmkp,vfvymzgkarsjvmkvmjsck
abjcqqcyjlfqvzkmzckjgvabtkabrc cbj,vfvhctcyja.cvmkvhf frchvhapnvmk
mjsckv chal ,vfvym zljckv.aklp,vmkvym zljckvymhcpvjsfjvhf frcvmk
yfbbmjvocvkcfhvogvgmlkvcdlaz cbjx

1xTx2xvQA AJCHvUFKKFBJG,vHAPYQFA CKvMTvHF FRCPv-vCeyczjvtmkvjscv"Karsj
mtvKczqfyc cbjvmkvKctlbh"vhcpykaochvabvzfkfrkfzsv1xTx3,vjscvZkmicyj
RljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjamb,vjscvmubckvmtvjscvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vjkfhc fkn,vfbhvfbgvmjsckvzfkjgvhapjkaoljabrvfvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknvlbhckvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vhapyqfa vfqq
qafoaqajgvjmvgmlvtmkvhf frcp,vympjpvfbhvcezcbpcp,vabyqlhabrvqcrfq
tccpxvGMLvFRKCCvJSFJvGMLvSF.CvBMvKC CHACPvTMKvBCRQARCBYC,vPJKAYJ
QAFOAQAJG,vOKCFYSvMTvUFKKFBJGvMKvOKCFYSvMTvYMBJKFYJvCEYCZJvJSMPC
ZKM.AHCHvABvZFKFRKFZSv1xTx3xvGMLvFRKCCvJSFJvJSCvTMLBHFJAMB,vJSC
JKFHC FKNvMUBCK,vFBHvFBGvHAPJKAOLJMKvLBHCKvJSAPvFRKCC CBJvUAQQvBMJvOC
QAFOQCvJMvGMLvTMKvFYJLFQ,vHAKCYJ,vABHAKCYJ,vYMBPCDLCBJAFQ,vZLBAJA.CvMK
ABYAHCBJFQvHF FRCPvC.CBvATvGMLvRA.CvBMJAYCvMTvJSCvZMPPAOAQAJGvMTvPLYS
HF FRCx

1xTx3xvQA AJCHvKARSJvMTvKCZQFYC CBJvMKvKCTLBHv-vAtvgmlvhapym.ckvf
hctcyjvabvjsapvcqcyjkmbayvumknvuajsabv90vhfgpvmtvkcyca.abrvaj,vgmlvyfb
kcyca.cvfvkctlbhvmtvjscv mbcgv(atvfbg)vgmlvzfahvtmkvajvogvpcbhabrvf
ukajjcbvcezqfbfjambvjmvjscvzckpmbvgmlvkcyca.chvjscvumknvtkm xvAtvgml
kcyca.chvjscvumknvmbvfvzsgpayfqv chal ,vgmlv lpjvkcjlkbvjscv chal 
uajsvgmlkvukajjcbvcezqfbfjambxvJscvzckpmbvmkvcbjajgvjsfjvzkm.ahchvgml
uajsvjscvhctcyja.cvumknv fgvcqcyjvjmvzkm.ahcvfvkczqfyc cbjvymzgvab
qaclvmtvfvkctlbhxvAtvgmlvkcyca.chvjscvumknvcqcyjkmbayfqqg,vjscvzckpmb
mkvcbjajgvzkm.ahabrvajvjmvgmlv fgvysmmpcvjmvra.cvgmlvfvpcymbh
mzzmkjlbajgvjmvkcyca.cvjscvumknvcqcyjkmbayfqqgvabvqaclvmtvfvkctlbhxvAt
jscvpcymbhvymzgvapvfqpmvhctcyja.c,vgmlv fgvhc fbhvfvkctlbhvabvukajabr
uajsmljvtlkjsckvmzzmkjlbajacpvjmvtaevjscvzkmoqc x

1xTx4xvCeyczjvtmkvjscvqa ajchvkarsjvmtvkczqfyc cbjvmkvkctlbhvpcjvtmkjs
abvzfkfrkfzsv1xTx3,vjsapvumknvapvzkm.ahchvjmvgmlv'FP-AP',vUAJSvBM
MJSCKvUFKKFBJACPvMTvFBGvNABH,vCEZKCPPvMKvA ZQACH,vABYQLHABRvOLJvBMJ
QA AJCHvJMvUFKKFBJACPvMTv CKYSFBJFOAQAJGvMKvTAJBCPPvTMKvFBGvZLKZMPCx

1xTx5xvPm cvpjfjcpvhmvbmjvfqqmuvhapyqfa ckpvmtvyckjfabva zqach
ufkkfbjacpvmkvjscvceyqlpambvmkvqa ajfjambvmtvyckjfabvjgzcpvmt
hf frcpxvAtvfbgvhapyqfa ckvmkvqa ajfjambvpcjvtmkjsvabvjsapvfrkcc cbj
.amqfjcpvjscvqfuvmtvjscvpjfjcvfzzqayfoqcvjmvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vjsc
frkcc cbjvpsfqqvocvabjckzkcjchvjmv fncvjscv fea l vhapyqfa ckvmk
qa ajfjambvzck ajjchvogvjscvfzzqayfoqcvpjfjcvqfuxvJscvab.fqahajgvmk
lbcbtmkycfoaqajgvmtvfbgvzkm.apambvmtvjsapvfrkcc cbjvpsfqqvbmjv.mahvjsc
kc fababrvzkm.apambpx

1xTx6xvABHC BAJGv-vGmlvfrkccvjmvabhc batgvfbhvsmqhvjscvTmlbhfjamb,vjsc
jkfhc fknvmubck,vfbgvfrcbjvmkvc zqmgccvmtvjscvTmlbhfjamb,vfbgmbc
zkm.ahabrvymzacpvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpvab
fyymkhfbycvuajsvjsapvfrkcc cbj,vfbhvfbgv.mqlbjcckpvfppmyafjchvuajsvjsc
zkmhlyjamb,vzkm mjambvfbhvhapjkaoljambvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 
cqcyjkmbayvumknp,vsfk qcppvtkm vfqqvqafoaqajg,vympjpvfbhvcezcbpcp,
abyqlhabrvqcrfqvtccp,vjsfjvfkapcvhakcyjqgvmkvabhakcyjqgvtkm vfbgvmt
jscvtmqqmuabrvusaysvgmlvhmvmkvyflpcvjmvmyylk:v(f)vhapjkaoljambvmtvjsap
mkvfbgvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumkn,v(o)vfqjckfjamb,v mhatayfjamb,vmk
fhhajambpvmkvhcqcjambpvjmvfbgvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vumkn,vfbhv(y)vfbg
Hctcyjvgmlvyflpcx

Pcyjambv2xvAbtmk fjambvfomljvjscv appambvmtvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 

ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vapvpgbmbg mlpvuajsvjscvtkccvhapjkaoljambvmt
cqcyjkmbayvumknpvabvtmk fjpvkcfhfoqcvogvjscvuahcpjv.fkacjgvmt
ym zljckpvabyqlhabrvmopmqcjc,vmqh,v ahhqc-frchvfbhvbcuvym zljckpxvAj
ceapjpvocyflpcvmtvjscvcttmkjpvmtvslbhkchpvmtv.mqlbjcckpvfbhvhmbfjambp
tkm vzcmzqcvabvfqqvufqnpvmtvqatcx

.mqlbjcckpvfbhvtabfbyafqvplzzmkjvjmvzkm.ahcv.mqlbjcckpvuajsvjsc
fppapjfbycvjscgvbcchvfkcvykajayfqvjmvkcfysabrvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j 'p
rmfqpvfbhvcbplkabrvjsfjvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vymqqcyjambvuaqq
kc fabvtkccqgvf.faqfoqcvtmkvrcbckfjambpvjmvym cxvAbv2001,vjscvZkmicyj
RljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvufpvykcfjchvjmvzkm.ahcvfvpcylkc
fbhvzck fbcbjvtljlkcvtmkvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vfbhvtljlkc
rcbckfjambpxvJmvqcfkbv mkcvfomljvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkg
Fkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvfbhvsmuvgmlkvcttmkjpvfbhvhmbfjambpvyfbvscqz,vpcc
Pcyjambpv3vfbhv4vfbhvjscvTmlbhfjambvabtmk fjambvzfrcvfj
uuuxrljcbockrxmkr



Pcyjambv3xvAbtmk fjambvfomljvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjamb

JscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvapvfvbmbvzkmtaj
501(y)(3)vchlyfjambfqvymkzmkfjambvmkrfbawchvlbhckvjscvqfupvmtvjsc
pjfjcvmtv appappazzavfbhvrkfbjchvjfevcec zjvpjfjlpvogvjscvAbjckbfq
Kc.cblcvPck.aycxvJscvTmlbhfjamb'pvCABvmkvtchckfqvjfevahcbjatayfjamb
bl ockvapv64-6221541xvYmbjkaoljambpvjmvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkg
Fkysa.cvTmlbhfjambvfkcvjfevhchlyjaoqcvjmvjscvtlqqvcejcbjvzck ajjchvog
LxPxvtchckfqvqfupvfbhvgmlkvpjfjc'pvqfupx

JscvTmlbhfjamb'pvzkabyazfqvmttaycvapvabvTfakofbnp,vFqfpnf,vuajsvjsc
 faqabrvfhhkcpp:vZMvOmev750175,vTfakofbnp,vFNv99775,voljvajp
.mqlbjcckpvfbhvc zqmgccpvfkcvpyfjjckchvjskmlrsmljvbl ckmlp
qmyfjambpxvAjpvolpabcppvmttaycvapvqmyfjchvfjv809vBmkjsv1500vUcpj,vPfqj
QfncvYajg,vLJv84116,v(801)v596-1887xvC faqvymbjfyjvqabnpvfbhvlzvjm
hfjcvymbjfyjvabtmk fjambvyfbvocvtmlbhvfjvjscvTmlbhfjamb'pvucovpajcvfbh
mttayafqvzfrcvfjvuuuxrljcbockrxmkr/ymbjfyj

Tmkvfhhajambfqvymbjfyjvabtmk fjamb:

vvvvHkxvRkcrmkgvOxvBcuog
vvvvYsactvCecylja.cvfbhvHakcyjmk
vvvvrobcuog@zrqftxmkr

Pcyjambv4xvAbtmk fjambvfomljvHmbfjambpvjmvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockr
QajckfkgvFkysa.cvTmlbhfjamb

ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vhczcbhpvlzmbvfbhvyfbbmjvplk.a.cvuajsmljvuahc
pzkcfhvzloqayvplzzmkjvfbhvhmbfjambpvjmvyfkkgvmljvajpv appambvmt
abykcfpabrvjscvbl ockvmtvzloqayvhm fabvfbhvqaycbpchvumknpvjsfjvyfbvoc
tkccqgvhapjkaoljchvabv fysabcvkcfhfoqcvtmk vfyycppaoqcvogvjscvuahcpj
fkkfgvmtvcdlaz cbjvabyqlhabrvmljhfjchvcdlaz cbjxv fbgvp fqqvhmbfjambp
($1vjmv$5,000)vfkcvzfkjaylqfkqgva zmkjfbjvjmv fabjfababrvjfevcec zj
pjfjlpvuajsvjscvAKPx

JscvTmlbhfjambvapvym  ajjchvjmvym zqgabrvuajsvjscvqfupvkcrlqfjabr
ysfkajacpvfbhvysfkajfoqcvhmbfjambpvabvfqqv50vpjfjcpvmtvjscvLbajch
PjfjcpxvYm zqafbycvkcdlakc cbjpvfkcvbmjvlbatmk vfbhvajvjfncpvf
ymbpahckfoqcvcttmkj,v lysvzfzckumknvfbhv fbgvtccpvjmv ccjvfbhvncczvlz
uajsvjscpcvkcdlakc cbjpxvUcvhmvbmjvpmqayajvhmbfjambpvabvqmyfjambp
usckcvucvsf.cvbmjvkcyca.chvukajjcbvymbtak fjambvmtvym zqafbycxvJmvPCBH
HMBFJAMBPvmkvhcjck abcvjscvpjfjlpvmtvym zqafbycvtmkvfbgvzfkjaylqfk
pjfjcv.apajvuuuxrljcbockrxmkr/hmbfjc

Usaqcvucvyfbbmjvfbhvhmvbmjvpmqayajvymbjkaoljambpvtkm vpjfjcpvusckcvuc
sf.cvbmjv cjvjscvpmqayajfjambvkcdlakc cbjp,vucvnbmuvmtvbmvzkmsaoajamb
frfabpjvfyyczjabrvlbpmqayajchvhmbfjambpvtkm vhmbmkpvabvplysvpjfjcpvusm
fzzkmfysvlpvuajsvmttckpvjmvhmbfjcx

Abjckbfjambfqvhmbfjambpvfkcvrkfjctlqqgvfyyczjch,voljvucvyfbbmjv fnc
fbgvpjfjc cbjpvymbyckbabrvjfevjkcfj cbjvmtvhmbfjambpvkcyca.chvtkm 
mljpahcvjscvLbajchvPjfjcpxvLxPxvqfupvfqmbcvpuf zvmlkvp fqqvpjfttx

ZqcfpcvyscynvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvUcovzfrcpvtmkvylkkcbjvhmbfjamb
 cjsmhpvfbhvfhhkcppcpxvHmbfjambpvfkcvfyyczjchvabvfvbl ockvmtvmjsck
ufgpvabyqlhabrvyscynp,vmbqabcvzfg cbjpvfbhvykchajvyfkhvhmbfjambpxvJm
hmbfjc,vzqcfpcv.apaj:vuuuxrljcbockrxmkr/hmbfjc

Pcyjambv5xvRcbckfqvAbtmk fjambvFomljvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcqcyjkmbayvumknpx

Zkmtcppmkv aysfcqvPxvSfkjvufpvjscvmkarabfjmkvmtvjscvZkmicyj
Rljcbockr-j vymbyczjvmtvfvqaokfkgvmtvcqcyjkmbayvumknpvjsfjvymlqhvoc
tkccqgvpsfkchvuajsvfbgmbcxvTmkvtmkjgvgcfkp,vscvzkmhlychvfbh
hapjkaoljchvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcOmmnpvuajsvmbqgvfvqmmpcvbcjumknvmt
.mqlbjcckvplzzmkjx

ZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j vcOmmnpvfkcvmtjcbvykcfjchvtkm vpc.ckfqvzkabjch
chajambp,vfqqvmtvusaysvfkcvymbtak chvfpvbmjvzkmjcyjchvogvymzgkarsjvab
jscvLxPxvlbqcppvfvymzgkarsjvbmjaycvapvabyqlhchxvJslp,vucvhmvbmj
bcycppfkaqgvncczvcOmmnpvabvym zqafbycvuajsvfbgvzfkjaylqfkvzfzck
chajambx

 mpjvzcmzqcvpjfkjvfjvmlkvUcovpajcvusaysvsfpvjscv fabvZRvpcfkys
tfyaqajg:vuuuxrljcbockrxmkr

JsapvUcovpajcvabyqlhcpvabtmk fjambvfomljvZkmicyjvRljcbockr-j ,
abyqlhabrvsmuvjmv fncvhmbfjambpvjmvjscvZkmicyjvRljcbockrvQajckfkg
Fkysa.cvTmlbhfjamb,vsmuvjmvscqzvzkmhlycvmlkvbcuvcOmmnp,vfbhvsmuvjm
plopykaocvjmvmlkvc faqvbcupqcjjckvjmvscfkvfomljvbcuvcOmmnpx











