WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx’agBmugUaavtagkpgFklbvrxlu,gIkfwoubu,g.tgFrimuog ugFklbvrxlu

Bmragu.kkcgragpkzgbmugsaugkpgvltklugvltqmuzugvbglkgikabgvl gqrbm
vofkabglkgzuabzribrklagqmvbakunuzjggTksgfvtgikwtgrb,gxrnugrbgvqvtgkz
zu-saugrbgsl uzgbmugbuzfagkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOriulaugrlios u 
qrbmgbmragu.kkcgkzgklorlugvbgqqqjxsbul.uzxjlub


Brbou:gBmugUaavtagkpgFklbvrxlu,gIkfwoubu

Vsbmkz:gFrimuog ugFklbvrxlu

Zuouvaug vbu:gAuwbuf.uzg17,g2006g[U.kkcg#3600]
OvabgSw vbu :gVsxsabg8,g2016

Ovlxsvxu:gUlxoram

Imvzvibuzgaubgulik rlx:gSBP-8

***gABVZBgKPgBMRAgWZKYUIBgXSBUL.UZXgU.KKCgBMUgUAAVTAgKPgFKLBVRXLU,gIKFWOUBUg***




Wzk siu g.tg vnr gQr xuz





UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl
U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg1j
gggggWzupviu
gggggBmugOrpugkpgFklbvrxlu
gggggBmugOubbuzagkpgFklbvrxlu



WZUPVIUj

Bmugwzuaulbgws.orivbrklgragrlbul u gbkgaswwotgvgzuikxlrau g uprirulitgrl
kszgorbuzvbszu--vgor.zvztgu rbrklgkpgbmugUaavtagkpgFklbvrxlujggBmragxzuvb
Pzulimgqzrbuzg uauznuagbkg.ugzuxvz u gvagvgiovaari,glkbgklotgrlgbmugovl 
kpgmrag.rzbm,g.sbgrlgvoogikslbzruagvl grlgvoogorbuzvbszuajggMragUaavta,
qmrimgvzugvbgkliugbmugfkabgiuou.zvbu gvl gbmugfkabgwuzfvlulbgkpgmra
wzk sibrkla,gpkzfgvgfvxvdrlugksbgkpgqmrimgasimgfrl agvagbmkaugkpg.vikl
vl gAmvcuawuvzug r glkbg ra vrlgbkgmuowgbmufauonua;gvl ,grl uu ,gva
Mvoovfgk.auznua,gbmugPzulimfvl’agorbuzvztgrfwkzbvliugovzxuotgzuasobagpzkf
bmugamvzugqmrimgmragfrl gmv grlgrlposulirlxgkbmuzgfrl a,gikunvogvl 
as.auesulbjgg.sb,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,guabrfvbrlxgbmugnvosugvl gzvlcgkpgbmu
uaavtrab,gqugvzuglkbgbkgouvnugksbgkpgbmugviikslbgbmug zvq.vicagvl gbmu
irzisfabvliuagkpgbmugwuzrk :gbmugrfwuzpuibgabvbugkpgu sivbrkl,gbmu
ikfwvzvbrnugaivzirbtgkpg.kkca,gvl gbmugorfrbu gkwwkzbslrbruagkp
rlbuoouibsvogrlbuzikszaujggFklbvrxlugpzuuotg.kzzkqu gkpgkbmuza,gvl gmu
mvagpksl gfulgqroorlxgbkg.kzzkqgkpgmrfgvagpzuuotjggQugluu glkbgqkl uzgvb
bmugzuwsbvbrklgqmrimgmugqrbmgauufrlxgpvirorbtgvimrunu jggMugqva,gqrbmksb
.urlxgvqvzugkpgrb,gbmugouv uzgkpgvgluqgaimkkogrlgoubbuzagvl gfkzvoajggMra
.kkcgqvag rppuzulbgpzkfgvoogkbmuzagqmrimgquzugvbgbmvbg vbugrlgbmugqkzo j
Rbg rnuzbu gbmugvlirulbgiszzulbagkpgbmksxmbgrlbkgluqgimvlluoajggRbgbko 
rbagzuv uza,gqrbmgsluhvfwou gpzvlcluaa,gqmvbgrbagqzrbuz’agkwrlrklgqva
v.ksbgfulgvl gbmrlxa,gvl gbmzuqgqmvbgfsabgmvnug.uulgvgabzvlxugcrl gkpgluq
orxmbgklgfvltgfvbbuzag.sbg vzcotgsl uzabkk jggV.knugvoo,gbmuguaavtrab
slivau gmrfauop,gvl gfv ugmragrlbuoouibsvogvl gwmtarivogkzxvlrafgws.ori
wzkwuzbtjggMugbkkcgbmugqkzo grlbkgmragiklpr uliugklgvoogas.yuibajggMra
uaavtagquzugvgakzbgkpgorbuzvztgvlvbkft,gqmuzugqugxubgvg rvxlkaragkpgbmu
qzrbuz’agfrl ,gfv ug.tgmrfauopgvbg rppuzulbgounuoagvl gsl uzgvgovzxu
nvzrubtgkpgkwuzvbrlxgrlposuliuaj

Kpgvooguxkbraba,gFklbvrxlu,grpglkbgbmugxzuvbuab,gqvagbmugfkab
pvairlvbrlx,g.uivsau,gwuzmvwa,gmugqvagbmugouvabgvppuibu gvl gfkab
bzsbmpsojggQmvbgmug r ,gvl gqmvbgmugmv gwzkpuaau gbkg k,gqvagbkg raauib
mragfrl ,gvl gamkqgsa,gvag.uabgmugikso ,gmkqgrbgqvagfv u,gvl gqmvb
zuovbrklgrbg.kzugbkguhbuzlvogk.yuibajggMugrlnuabrxvbu gmragfulbvo
abzsibszugvagvgaimkko.ktgwsooagmragqvbimgbkgwruiua,gbkguhvfrlugbmu
fuimvlrafgkpgbmugqkzca;gvl gbmugzuasob,gviikfwvlru g.tgroosabzvbrkla
v.ksl rlxgqrbmgkzrxrlvorbtgvl gpkziu,gmug uornuzu gbkgmragpuookq-fulgrlgv
.kkcj

Uokesuliu,gzmubkzrivoguppuib,gwkubzt,gquzugvorcugzufkbugpzkfgmrag uarxlj
Mug r glkbgqzrbugpzkfgluiuaarbt,gaivziuotgwuzmvwagpkzgpvfujgg.sbgmu
 uarzu gbkgouvnugPzvliu,glvt,gvl gbmugqkzo ,gakfubmrlxgbkg.ugzufuf.uzu 
.t,gakfubmrlxgqmrimgamkso gbuoogqmvbgcrl gkpgvgfvlgmugqva--qmvbgmugpuob,
bmksxmb,gasppuzu --vl gmugasiiuu u grffuvaszv.ot,gRgvwwzumul ,g.utkl gmra
uhwuibvbrklaj

Rbgqvagzuvaklv.ougulksxmgbmvbgFklbvrxlugamkso guhwuibgpkzgmragqkzcgv
iuzbvrlgamvzugkpgiuou.zrbtgrlgXvaiklt,gvl gunul,gvagbrfugqulbgkl,
bmzksxmksbgPzvliu;g.sbgrbgragaivziuotgwzk.v.ougbmvbgmugpkzuavqgmkqgmra
zulkqlgqvagbkg.uikfugqkzo -qr u;gmkqgmugqvagbkgkiiswtgvlgvofkabgslresu
wkarbrklgvagvgfvlgkpgoubbuzagvl gvgfkzvorab;gmkqgbmugUaavtagqkso g.u
zuv ,grlgvoogbmugwzrlirwvogovlxsvxuagkpgUszkwu,g.tgfroorklagkp
rlbuoorxulbgmsfvlg.urlxa,gqmkglunuzgmuvz gkpgWuzrxkz gkzgbmugOuvxsu,gvl 
qmkgvzugrlg ks.b,grpgbmutgvzugesuabrklu ,gqmubmuzgbmugvsbmkzgornu grlgbmu
arhbuulbmgkzgbmugurxmbuulbmgiulbsztjggBmragragbzsugpvfujggVgfvlgkpgxulrsa
.uoklxagbkglkgwuzrk gvl glkgikslbztjggMugawuvcagbmugovlxsvxugkpglvbszu,
qmrimgragvoqvtagunuztqmuzugbmugavfuj

Bmugbuhbgkpgbmuaugnkosfuagragbvculgpzkfgbmugprzabgu rbrklgkpgIkbbkl’a
nuzarkl,gwzrlbu grlg3gnkoajgg8nk,g1685-6,gvl gzuws.oramu grlg1693,g1700,
1711,g1738,gvl g1743,grlgbmugavfuglsf.uzgkpgnkosfuagvl gbmugavfugarduj
Rlgbmuguvzoruabgrfwzuaarklgbmuguzzkzagkpgbmugwzuaagvzugikzzuibu gfuzuot
vagpvzgvagwvxug240gkpgbmugprzabgnkosfu,gvl gvoogbmugu rbrklagpkookqgklu
vlkbmuzjggBmvbgkpg1685-6gqvagbmugklotgklugqmrimgbmugbzvlaovbkzgornu gbk
auujggMug ru grlg1687,gouvnrlxg.umrl gmrfgvlgrlbuzuabrlxgvl gorbbou-clkql
ikoouibrklgkpgwkufa,gqmrimgvwwuvzu gwkabmsfksaot,g8nk,g1689j

Rbgqvagiklar uzu grfwuzvbrnugbkgikzzuibgIkbbkl’agbzvlaovbrklg.tgvgivzupso
ikoovbrklgqrbmgbmug‘nvzrkzsf’gu rbrklgkpgbmugkzrxrlvo,gWvzra,g1854,
4gnkoajgg8nkgkzg12fk,gvl gwvzvoouogwvaavxuagpzkfgPokzrl’aguvzoruz
sl uzbvcrlxgmvnugkiivarklvootg.uulgrlauzbu gvbgbmugpkkbgkpgbmugwvxujggV
OrpugkpgbmugVsbmkzgvl gvoogmragzuiknuzu gOubbuza,garhbuulgrlglsf.uz,gmvnu
voakg.uulgxrnul;g.sb,gvagzuxvz agbmugikzzuawkl uliu,grbgivlgaivziuotg.u
 ks.bu gbmvbgrbgragrlgvgwszuotgpzvxfulbvztgabvbujggBkg kgfkzugbmvl
pszlramgvgacubimgkpgbmugouv rlxgrlir ulbagrlgFklbvrxlu’agorpugauufu ,grl
bmugwzuauliugkpg.vtougAbjgYkml’agimvzfrlxgvl gv.oug.rkxzvwmt,gvlgvbbufwb
vag rpprisobgvagrbgqvagsauouaaj

Bmug.uaubbrlxgarlgkpg.kbmgFklbvrxlu’agbzvlaovbkzagauufagbkgmvnug.uulgv
wzkwularbtgpkzgzu sirlxgmragovlxsvxugvl gwmzvaukokxtgbkgbmugovlxsvxugvl 
wmzvaukokxtgkpgbmugvxugvl gikslbztgbkgqmrimgbmutg.uoklxu ,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,
rlauzbrlxgwvzvxzvwmagvl gqkz a,glkbgmuzugvl gbmuzugklot,g.sbgiklabvlbot
vl gmv.rbsvoot,gpzkfgvlgunr ulbg uarzugvl gnruqgbkguosir vbugkz
abzulxbmulgbmurzgvsbmkz’agfuvlrlxjggBmugzuasobgmvagxuluzvootg.uul
slpkzbslvbu;gvl gRgmvnu,grlgbmugivaugkpgvoogbmuaugrlbuzwkovbrklagkl
Ikbbkl’agwvzb,gpuobg.ksl ,gqmuzugRg r glkbgivliuogbmuf,gbkgbmzkqgbmuf
 kqlgrlbkgbmuglkbua,glkbgbmrlcrlxgrbgzrxmbgbmvbgFklbvrxlugamkso g.u
vookqu gvltgoklxuzgbkgabvl gawklakzgpkzgqmvbgmuglunuzgqzkbu;gvl 
zuosibvlb,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gbkgaswwzuaagbmugrlbzs rlxgfvbbuzgulbrzuot,
qmuzugrbgvwwuvzu gbkgwkaauaagvgnvosugkpgrbagkqlj

Lkzgragzu sl vlitgkzgwvzvwmzvaugbmugklotgpkzfgkpgbzvlaxzuaarklgrlgIkbbkl,
pkzgbmuzugvzugwoviuagrlgmragvsbmkzgqmrimgmugbmksxmbgwzkwuzgbkgkfrb,gvl 
rbgragmvz otgluiuaavztgbkgavtgbmvbgbmugzuabkzvbrklgkpgvoogasimgfvbbuzgbk
bmugbuhbgqvagiklar uzu guaaulbrvogbkgrbagrlbuxzrbtgvl gikfwoubuluaaj

Ftgqvzfuabgbmvlcagvzug sugbkgftgpvbmuz,gFzgZuxrabzvzgMvdorbb,gbmugvsbmkz
kpgbmugquoo-clkqlgvl guhiuooulbgu rbrklgkpgFklbvrxlugws.oramu grlg1842,
pkzgbmugrfwkzbvlbgvaarabvliugqmrimgmugmvagzul uzu gbkgfugrlgnuzrptrlxgvl 
zubzvlaovbrlxgbmugeskbvbrkla,gqmrimgquzugrlgvgfkabgikzzswbgabvbu,gvl gkp
qmrimgIkbbkl’agUlxoramgnuzarklagquzugarlxsovzotgokkaugvl grluhvib,gvl 
pkzgbmugduvogqrbmgqmrimgmugmvagik-kwuzvbu gqrbmgfugrlgikoovbrlxgbmu
Ulxoramgbuhb,gorlugpkzgorlugvl gqkz gpkzgqkz ,gqrbmgbmug.uabgPzulim
u rbrklj

.tgbmugpvnkszgkpgFzgPjgQjgIkaula,gRgmvnugmv g.tgfu,gqmrougvbgqkzcgklgbmra
as.yuib,gbmugikwtgkpgIkbxzvnu’ag ribrklvzt,gpkork,g1650,gqmrimg.uoklxu 
bkgIkbbkljggRbgmvagmragvsbkxzvwmgvl gikwrksagFAAjgglkbua,glkzgragrbgbkk
fsimgbkgwzuasfugbmvbgrbgragbmugnuztg.kkcgufwoktu g.tgmrfgrlgmra
bzvlaovbrklj
QjggIjggMj
CULARLXBKL,gLknuf.uzg1877j





.KKCgBMUgPRZABj

IMVWj

RjggggggBmvbgfulg.tgnvzrksagqvtagvzzrnugvbgbmugavfugul j

RRjgggggKpgAkzzkqj

RRRjggggBmvbgkszgvppuibrklagivzztgbmufauonuag.utkl gsaj

RNjgggggBmvbgbmugaksog raimvzxuagmuzgwvaarklagswklgpvoaugk.yuiba,gqmuzu
ggggggggbmugbzsugvzugqvlbrlxj

NjggggggQmubmuzgbmugxknuzlkzgkpgvgwoviug.uaruxu gksxmbgmrfauopgbkgxkgksb
ggggggggbkgwvzoutj

NRjgggggBmvbgbmugmkszgkpgwvzoutgrag vlxuzksaj

NRRjggggBmvbgbmugrlbulbrklgragys xugkpgkszgvibrkla

NRRRjgggKpgr ouluaaj

RHjgggggKpgorvzaj

HjggggggKpgesricgkzgaokqgawuuimj

HRjgggggKpgwzkxlkabrivbrklaj

HRRjggggKpgiklabvlitj

HRRRjgggBmugiuzufkltgkpgbmugrlbuznruqgkpgwzrliuaj

HRNjggggBmvbgfulgvzugysabotgwslramu gpkzg.urlxgk.abrlvbugrlgbmug upuliu
ggggggggkpgvgpkzbgbmvbgraglkbgrlgzuvaklgbkg.ug upul u j

HNjgggggKpgbmugwslramfulbgkpgikqvz riuj

HNRjggggVgwzkiuu rlxgkpgakfugvf.vaav kzaj

HNRRjgggKpgpuvzj

HNRRRjggBmvbgfulgvzuglkbgbkgys xugkpgkszgmvwwrluaagbroogvpbuzg uvbmj

HRHjggggBmvbgbkgabs tgwmrokakwmtgragbkgouvzlgbkg ruj

HHjgggggKpgbmugpkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrklj

HHRjggggBmvbgbmugwzkprbgkpgklugfvlgragbmug vfvxugkpgvlkbmuzj

HHRRjgggKpgisabkf,gvl gbmvbgqugamkso glkbguvarotgimvlxugvgovqgzuiurnu j

HHRRRjggNvzrksagunulbagpzkfgbmugavfugikslauoj

HHRNjgggKpgwu vlbztj

HHNjggggKpgbmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zulj

HHNRjgggBmvbgrbgragpkootgbkgfuvaszugbzsbmgvl guzzkzg.tgkszgkqlgivwvirbtj

HHNRRjggKpgpzrul amrwj

HHNRRRjgLrlu-vl -bqulbtgakllubagkpgUabrullug ugovg.kubruj

HHRHjgggKpgfk uzvbrklj

HHHjggggKpgivllr.voaj

HHHRjgggBmvbgvgfvlgragak.uzotgbkgys xugkpgbmug rnrlugkz rlvliuaj

HHHRRjggBmvbgqugvzugbkgvnkr gwouvaszua,gunulgvbgbmuguhwulaugkp
ggggggggorpuj

HHHRRRjgBmvbgpkzbslugragkpbulbrfuagk.auznu gbkgvibg.tgbmugzsougkpgzuvaklj

HHHRNjggKpgklug upuibgrlgkszgxknuzlfulbj

HHHNjgggKpgbmugisabkfgkpgquvzrlxgiokbmuaj

HHHNRjggKpgIvbkgbmugTkslxuzj

HHHNRRjgBmvbgqugovsxmgvl giztgpkzgbmugavfugbmrlxj

HHHNRRRjgKpgakorbs uj

HHHRHjggVgiklar uzvbrklgswklgIriuzkj

HOjgggggBmvbgbmugzuoramgkpgxkk gvl gunrog uwul agrlgvgxzuvbgfuvaszugswkl
ggggggggbmugkwrlrklgqugmvnugkpgbmufj

HORjggggLkbgbkgikffslrivbugvgfvl’agmklkszj

HORRjgggKpgbmugrluesvorbtgvfklxabgsaj

HORRRjggKpgasfwbsvztgovqaj

HORNjgggKpgaouuwj

HONjggggKpgbmug.vbbougkpg zushj

HONRjgggKpglvfuaj

HONRRjggKpgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgkszgys xfulbj

HONRRRjgKpgqvz-mkzaua,gkzg uabzruzaj

HORHjgggKpgvlirulbgisabkfaj

OjggggggKpg ufkizrbsagvl gMuzviorbsaj

ORjgggggKpgbmugnvlrbtgkpgqkz aj

ORRjggggKpgbmugwvzarfkltgkpgbmugVlirulbaj

ORRRjgggKpgvgavtrlxgkpgIvuavzj

ORNjggggKpgnvrlgas.boubruaj

ONjgggggKpgafuooaj

ONRjggggKpgwzvtuzaj

ONRRjgggKpgvxuj






gggggggggggggggggggggggggBMUgORPUgKPgFKLBVRXLU

[Bmragragbzvlaovbu gpzuuotgpzkfgbmvbgwzuprhu gbkgbmug‘nvzrkzsf’gWvzra
u rbrkl,g1854,g4gnkoajgg8nkjggBmrag.rkxzvwmtgragbmugfkzug uarzv.ougbmvb
rbgiklbvrlagvoogzuvootgrlbuzuabrlxgvl grfwkzbvlbgfvbbuzgrlgbmugykszlvogkp
bmugBkszgrlgXuzfvltgvl gRbvot,gqmrim,gvagrbgqvagfuzuotgqzrbbulgsl uz
Fklbvrxlu’ag ribvbrkl,gragrlgbmugbmrz gwuzakl,gragaivziuotgqkzbm
ws.orivbrkl,gvagvgqmkou,grlgvlgUlxoramg zuaaj]


BmugvsbmkzgkpgbmugUaavtagqvag.kzl,gvagmugrlpkzfagsagmrfauop,g.ubquul
uounulgvl gbquonugk’iokicgrlgbmug vt,gbmugovabgkpgPu.zsvztg1533,gvbgbmu
imvbuvsgkpgAbjgFrimuog ugFklbvrxlujggMragpvbmuz,gWruzzugUtesuf,guaesrzu,
qvagasiiuaarnuotgprzabgYszvbgkpgbmugbkqlgkpg.kz uvshg(1530),gSl uz-Fvtkz
1536,gYszvbgpkzgbmugauikl gbrfugrlg1540,gWzkiszuszgrlg1546,gvl gvb
oulxbmgFvtkzgpzkfg1553gbkg1556jggMugqvagvgfvlgkpgvsabuzugwzk.rbt,gqmkgmv 
“vgwvzbrisovzgzuxvz gpkzgmklkszgvl gpkzgwzkwzrubtgrlgmragwuzaklgvl 
vbbrzugjggjggjgggvgfrxmbtgxkk gpvrbmgrlgmragawuuim,gvl gvgiklairuliugvl 
vgzuorxrksagpuuorlxgrliorlrlxgbkgaswuzabrbrkl,gzvbmuzgbmvlgbkgbmugkbmuz
uhbzufuj”g[Uaavta,grrjg2j]ggWruzzugUtesufg.uabkqu gxzuvbgivzugklgbmu
u sivbrklgkpgmragimro zul,guawuirvootgklgbmugwzvibrivogar ugkpgrbjggBk
vaakirvbugiokauotgmragaklgFrimuogqrbmgbmugwukwou,gvl gvbbvimgmrfgbkgbmkau
qmkgabvl grlgluu gkpgvaarabvliu,gmugivsau gmrfgbkg.ugmuo gvbgbmugpklbg.t
wuzaklagkpgfuvluabgwkarbrkl;gas.auesulbotgmugwsbgmrfgksbgbkglszaugqrbmgv
wkkzgnroovxuz,gvl gbmul,gvbgvgovbuzgwuzrk ,gfv ugmrfgviisabkfgmrfauopgbk
bmugfkabgikffklgakzbgkpgornrlx,gbvcrlxgivzu,glunuzbmuouaa,gbkgisobrnvbu
mragfrl ,gvl gaswuzrlbul grbag unuokwfulbgqrbmksbgbmuguhuziraugkpgsl su
zrxkszgkzgiklabzvrlbjggFrimuo,gqmkgxrnuagsagbmugfrlsbuabgviikslbgkpgmra
uvzoruabgtuvza,gimvzfrlxotglvzzvbuagmkqgbmutgsau gbkgvqvcugmrfg.tgbmu
aksl gkpgakfugvxzuuv.ougfsari,gvl gmkqgmugouvzlu gOvbrl,gqrbmksb
asppuzrlxgbmugzk gkzgamu  rlxgvgbuvz,g.upkzug.uxrllrlxgPzulim,gbmvlcagbk
bmugXuzfvlgbuvimuzgqmkfgmragpvbmuzgmv gwoviu gluvzgmrf,gvl gqmkglunuz
v  zuaau gmrfguhiuwbgrlgbmugovlxsvxugkpgNrzxrogvl gIriuzkjggBmugabs tgkp
Xzuucgbkkcgwzuiu uliujggVbgarhgtuvzagkpgvxugtkslxgFklbvrxlugqulbgbkgbmu
IkoouxugkpgXsrullugvbg.kz uvsh,gqmuzugmugmv gvagwzuiuwbkzagbmugfkab
ufrlulbgaimkovzagkpgbmugarhbuulbmgiulbszt,gLrikovagXzksimt,gXsuzulbu,
Fszub,gvl g.simvlvljggVbgbmrzbuulgmugmv gwvaau gbmzksxmgvoogbmugiovaaua,
vl gvagmugqvag uabrlu gpkzgbmugovqgmugoupbgaimkkogbkgabs tgbmvbgairuliuj
Mugqvagbmulgv.ksbgpkszbuul,g.sbgbmuauguvzotgtuvzagkpgmragorpugvzu
rlnkonu grlgk.aiszrbtjggBmugluhbgrlpkzfvbrklgbmvbgqugmvnugragbmvbgrlg1554
mugzuiurnu gbmugvwwkrlbfulbgkpgikslirookzgrlgbmugWvzorvfulbgkpg.kz uvsh;
rlg1559gmugqvagvbg.vz-ou- sigqrbmgbmugikszbgkpgPzvliragRR,gvl grlgbmu
tuvzgpkookqrlxgmugqvagwzuaulbgvbgZksulgbkgqrbluaagbmug uiovzvbrklgkpgbmu
fvykzrbtgkpgImvzouagRHjggQug kglkbgclkqgrlgqmvbgfvlluzgmugqvagulxvxu gkl
bmuaugkiivarklaj

.ubquulg1556gvl g1563gvlgrfwkzbvlbgrlir ulbgkiiszzu grlgbmugorpugkp
Fklbvrxlu,grlgbmugikffuliufulbgkpgmragzkfvlbrigpzrul amrwgqrbmgUbrullug u
ovg.kubru,gqmkfgmugmv gfub,gvagmugbuooagsa,g.tgwszugimvliugvbgakfu
puabrnugiuou.zvbrklgrlgbmugbkqljggPzkfgbmurzgnuztgprzabgrlbuznruqgbmugbqk
pksl gbmufauonuag zvqlgrzzuarabr.otgiokaugbkgklugvlkbmuz,gvl g szrlxgarh
tuvzagbmragvoorvliugqvagpkzufkabgrlgbmugmuvzbgkpgFklbvrxlu,gvagrbgqva
vpbuzqvz agrlgmragfufkzt,gqmulg uvbmgmv gaunuzu grbj

Vobmksxmgmug.ovfuagaunuzuotgrlgmragkqlg.kkcg[Uaavta,grjgg27j]gbmkaugqmk,
iklbzvztgbkgbmugkwrlrklgkpgVzrabkbou,gfvzztg.upkzugprnu-vl -bmrzbt,
Fklbvrxlug r glkbgqvrbgpkzgbmugwuzrk gprhu g.tgbmugwmrokakwmuzgkp
Abvxtzv,g.sbgrlg1566,grlgmragbmrzbt-bmrz gtuvz,gmuguawksau gPzvlikraug u
Imvaavrxlu,g vsxmbuzgkpgvgikslirookzgrlgbmugWvzorvfulbgkpg.kz uvshjggBmu
mrabkztgkpgmraguvzotgfvzzru gorpugnruagrlgk.aiszrbtgqrbmgbmvbgkpgmra
tksbmjggMrag.rkxzvwmuzagvzuglkbgvxzuu gvfklxgbmufauonua;gvl grlgbmu
avfug uxzuugbmvbgmugovtagkwulgbkgkszgnruqgvoogbmvbgikliuzlagmragauizub
bmksxmba,gbmugrlluzfkabgfuimvlrafgkpgmragfrl ,gmugk.auznuagbkkgfsim
zubriuliugrlgzuawuibgbkgmragws.origpslibrklagvl gikl sib,gvl gmragakirvo
zuovbrklajggBmugbrbougkpgXulboufvlgrlgKz rlvztgbkgbmugCrlx,gqmrimgmu
vaasfua,grlgvgwzupviu,gvl gqmrimgMulztgRRjggxrnuagmrfgrlgvgoubbuz,gqmrim
qugwzrlbgvgorbbougpvzbmuzgkl;gqmvbgmugavtagvagbkgbmugikffkbrklagkp
ikszba,gqmuzugmugwvaau gvgwkzbrklgkpgmragorpu;gbmugRlabzsibrklagqmrimgmu
qzkbugsl uzgbmug ribvbrklgkpgIvbmuzrlug ugFu rirgpkzgCrlxgImvzouagRHj,
vl gmraglk.ougikzzuawkl uliugqrbmgMulztgRNj,gouvnuglkg ks.b,gmkqunuz,gva
bkgbmugwvzbgqmrimgmugwovtu grlgbmugbzvlavibrklagkpgbmkaugbrfua,gvl gqu
prl gvlgslvlaquzv.ougwzkkpgkpgbmuguabuufgrlgqmrimgmugqvagmuo g.tgbmugfkab
uhvobu gwuzaklvxua,grlgvgoubbuzgqmrimgqvagv  zuaau gbkgmrfg.tgImvzouagvb
bmugbrfugmugqvagv frbbu gbkgbmugKz uzgkpgAbjgFrimvuo,gqmrimgqva,gvagmu
rlpkzfagsagmrfauop,gbmugmrxmuabgmklkszgkpgbmugPzulimglk.ouaauj

Viikz rlxgbkgOvizkrhg sgFvrlu,gFklbvrxlu,gswklgbmug uvbmgkpgmraguo uab
.zkbmuz,gzuarxlu gmragwkabgkpgIkslirookz,grlgkz uzgbkgv kwbgbmugfrorbvzt
wzkpuaarkl,gqmrou,grpgqugfrxmbgizu rbgbmugWzuar ulbg.ksmruz,gmuglunuz
 raimvzxu gvltgpslibrklagiklluibu gqrbmgvzfajggMkqunuz,gaunuzvogwvaavxua
rlgbmugUaavtagauufgbkgrl rivbugbmvbgmuglkbgklotgbkkcgauznriu,g.sbgbmvbgmu
qvagvibsvootgrlglsfuzksagivfwvrxlagqrbmgbmugIvbmkorigvzfruajggOubgsagv  ,
bmvbgklgmragfklsfulbgmugragzuwzuaulbu grlgvgikvbgkpgfvro,gqrbmgmragivaesu
vl gxvslboubagklgmragzrxmbgar u,gvl gvgorklgvbgmragpuub,gvoogqmrim
arxlrprua,grlgbmugovlxsvxugkpgpsluzvoguf.oufa,gbmvbgbmug uwvzbu gmvag.uul
ulxvxu grlgakfugrfwkzbvlbgfrorbvztgbzvlavibrklaj

Mkqunuzgrbgfvtg.ugvagbkgbmuaugiklyuibszua,gkszgvsbmkz,gmvnrlxgvzzrnu gvb
mragbmrzbt-urxmbmgtuvz,gzuakonu gbkg u rivbugbkgabs tgvl giklbufwovbrkl
bmugzufvrlrlxgbuzfgkpgmragorpu;gvl gklgmrag.rzbm vt,gbmugovabgkpgPu.zsvzt
1571,gmugivsau gvgwmrokakwmrivogrlaizrwbrkl,grlgOvbrl,gbkg.ugwoviu gswkl
klugkpgbmugqvooagkpgmragimvbuvs,gqmuzugrbgragabroogbkg.ugauul,gvl gkp
qmrimgbmugbzvlaovbrklgragbkgbmraguppuib:--“RlgbmugtuvzgkpgImzrabgjggjggj
rlgmragbmrzbt-urxmbmgtuvz,gklgbmugunugkpgbmugIvoul agkpgFvzim,gmra
.rzbm vt,gFrimuogFklbvrxlu,gvozuv tgquvztgkpgikszbgufwoktfulbagvl gws.ori
mklksza,gqrbm zuqgmrfauopgulbrzuotgrlbkgbmugiklnuzaugkpgbmugouvzlu 
nrzxrlagqmuzugmugrlbul agbkgawul gbmugzufvrlrlxgfkrubtgkpgbmugbkgvookbbu 
bkgmrfgrlgbzvlesrogauiosarklj”

Vbgbmugbrfugbkgqmrimgqugmvnugikfu,gFklbvrxlugqvagslclkqlgbkgbmugqkzo gkp
oubbuza,guhiuwbgvagvgbzvlaovbkzgvl gu rbkzjggRlg1569gmugmv gws.oramu gv
bzvlaovbrklgkpgbmug“LvbszvogBmukokxt”gkpgZvtfkl g ugAu.kl u,gqmrimgmugmv 
akouotgsl uzbvculgbkgwouvaugmragpvbmuzjggRlg1571gmugmv givsau gbkg.u
wzrlbu gvbgWvzragiuzbvrlg‘kwsaisiov’gkpgUbrullug ugovg.kubru;gvl gbmuau
bqkguppkzba,grlawrzu grlgklugivaug.tgprorvog sbt,gvl grlgbmugkbmuzg.t
pzrul amrw,gwzknugbmvbgvppuibrklvbugfkbrnuagknuzzsou gqrbmgmrfgfuzu
wuzaklvogvf.rbrklgvagvgorbuzvztgfvljggQugfvtgaswwkaugbmvbgmug.uxvlgbk
ikfwkaugbmugUaavtagvbgbmugnuztgksbaubgkpgmragzubrzufulbgpzkfgws.ori
ulxvxufulba;gpkzgva,gviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgviikslb,gk.auznuagbmugWzuar ulb
.ksmruz,gmugivzu glurbmuzgpkzgbmugimvau,glkzg.sro rlx,glkzgxvz ulrlx,glkz
vxzrisobszvogwszasrba,gvl gqvaguhiosarnuotgkiiswru gqrbmgzuv rlxgvl 
zupouibrkl,gmug unkbu gmrfauopgqrbmgavbrapvibrklgbkgbmugbvacgkpgaubbrlx
 kqlgmragbmksxmbagysabgvagbmutgkiiszzu gbkgmrfjggBmkaugbmksxmbag.uivfugv
.kkc,gvl gbmugprzabgwvzbgkpgbmvbg.kkc,gqmrimgqvagbkgiklpuzgrffkzbvorbtgkl
bmugqzrbuz,gvwwuvzu gvbg.kz uvshgrlg1580jggFklbvrxlugqvagbmul
prpbt-aunul;gmugmv gasppuzu gpkzgakfugtuvzagwvabgpzkfgzulvogikorigvl 
xzvnuo;gvl grbgqvagqrbmgbmugluiuaarbtgkpg rabzvibrklgpzkfgmragwvrl,gvl 
bmugmkwugkpg uzrnrlxgzuorupgpzkfgbmugqvbuza,gbmvbgmugsl uzbkkcgvbgbmra
brfugvgxzuvbgykszlutjggVagbmugviikslbgqmrimgmugmvagoupbgkpgmragbzvnuoagrl
Xuzfvltgvl gRbvotgikfwzrauagakfugmrxmotgrlbuzuabrlxgwvzbrisovzagkpgmra
orpugvl gwuzaklvogmrabkzt,grbgauufagqkzbmgqmrougbkgpszlramgvgacubimgkz
vlvotaragkpgrbj

“BmugYkszlut,gkpgqmrimgqugwzkiuu gbkg uaizr.ugbmugikszaugarfwot,”gavta
bmugu rbkzgkpgbmugRbrluzvzt,g“mv ,gpzkfg.uvsfklb-asz-KraugbkgWokf.ruzua,
rlgOkzzvrlu,glkbmrlxgaspprirulbotgrlbuzuabrlxgbkg ubvrlgsagjggjggjggqu
fsabgxkgvagpvz,gvag.vaou,gkpgqmrimgqugmvnugvg uaizrwbrkl,gviesvrlbrlxgsa
qrbmgrbagwmtarivogvl gwkorbrivogikl rbrklgvbgbmvbgwuzrk ,gvagquoogvagqrbm
bmugimvzvibuzgkpgrbag.vbmajggBmugwvaavxugkpgFklbvrxlugbmzksxmgAqrbduzovl 
raglkbgqrbmksbgrlbuzuab,gvagqugauugbmuzugmkqgkszgwmrokakwmrivogbzvnuoouz
viikffk vbu gmrfauopgunuztqmuzugbkgbmugqvtagkpgbmugikslbztjggBmugmkbuoa,
bmugwzknrarkla,gbmugAqraagikkcuzt,gunuztbmrlx,gqvagvxzuuv.ougbkgmrf;grb
vwwuvza,grl uu ,gvagrpgmugwzupuzzu gbkgbmugPzulimgfvlluzagvl gbvabua
bmkaugkpgbmugwoviuagmugqvagnrarbrlx,gvl gkpgqmrimgbmugarfworirbtgvl 
pzuu kfg(kzgpzvlcluaa)gviikz u gfkzugqrbmgmragkqlgfk ugkpgorpugvl 
bmrlcrlxjggRlgbmugbkqlagqmuzugmugabvtu ,gFklbvrxlugbkkcgivzugbkgauugbmu
Wzkbuabvlbg rnrlua,gbkgfvcugmrfauopgiklnuzavlbgqrbmgvoogbmurzg kxfvajggMu
unulgmv g rawsbvbrklagqrbmgbmufgkiivarklvootj

“MvnrlxgoupbgAqrbduzovl gmugqulbgbkgRalu,gvlgrfwuzrvogbmulgklgbkgVsxa.szx
vl gFslrimjggMugvpbuzqvz agwzkiuu u gbkgbmugBtzko,gqmuzugmugqvagvxzuuv.ot
aszwzrau ,gvpbuzgbmugqvzlrlxagqmrimgmugmv gzuiurnu ,gvbgbmugnuztgaorxmb
rliklnulruliuagqmrimgmugasppuzu ,gqmrimgxvnugmrfgkiivarklgbkgzufvzcgbmvb
mugmv gvoogmragorpug rabzsabu gbmugabvbufulbagkpgkbmuzagzuawuibrlx
pkzurxlgikslbzrua,guvimgwuzakl’agbvabuag.urlxgviikz rlxgbkgbmuglkbrklagkp
mraglvbrnugwoviu;gvl gbmvbgmugmv giklauesulbotgaubgnuztgorbbougklgqmvbgmu
qvagbko g.upkzumvl j

“Swklgmragvzzrnvogvbg.kbdul,gFklbvrxlugqzkbugbkgPzvlikragMkbbfvll,gbkgavt
bmvbgmugmv g.uulgakgwouvau gqrbmgmragnrarbgbkgXuzfvltgbmvbgmugesrbbu grb
qrbmgxzuvbgzuxzub,gvobmksxmgrbgqvagbkgxkgrlbkgRbvotjggMugbmulgwvaau 
bmzksxmg.zslako,gBzulb,gqmuzugmugwsbgswgvbgbmugZkau;gbmuliugxkrlxgbk
Zknuzv;gvl gmuzugmugprzabgovfulbu gbmugaivzirbtgkpgizvqpram,g.sbgfv ugsw
pkzgbmugokaag.tgwvzbvcrlxgkpgbzsppouagikkcu grlgkrogvl gnrluxvz;gkzvlxua,
irbzkla,gvl gkornua,grlgvoogkpgqmrimgmug uorxmbu j”

Vpbuzgwvaarlxgvgzuabouaaglrxmb,gqmulgmug.ubmksxmbgmrfauopgrlgbmugfkzlrlx
bmvbgbmuzugqvagakfugluqgbkqlgkzg rabzribgbkg.ugauul,gmugzkau,gqugvzu
bko ,gqrbmgvovizrbtgvl gwouvaszuj

Mragauizubvzt,gbkgqmkfgmug ribvbu gmragYkszlvo,gvaaszuagsagbmvbgmuglunuz
avqgmrfgbvcugakgfsimgrlbuzuabgrlgaszzksl rlxgaiuluagvl gwuzakla,gvl 
.uorunuagbmvbgbmugikfwoubugimvlxugmuowu gbkgfrbrxvbugmragasppuzrlxagrl
ikliulbzvbrlxgmragvbbulbrklgklgkbmuzgwkrlbajggQmulgbmuzugqvagvgikfwovrlb
fv ugbmvbgmugmv gou gmragwvzbtgksbgkpgbmug.uvbulgzksbu,gvl gbmulgzubszlu 
nuztgluvzgbmugawkbgpzkfgqmrimgbmutgabvzbu ,gmragvlaquzgqvagbmvbgmugmv glk
aubbou gikszau,gvl gbmvbgmugfuzuotgwzkwkau gbkgmrfauopgbkgwvtgnrarbagbk
woviuagqmrimgmugmv glkbgauul,gvl gakgoklxgvagbmutgikso glkbgiklnribgmrf
kpgbzvnuzarlxgbmugavfugwvbmgbqriu,gkzgzunrarbrlxgvgwkrlbgvozuv tgauul,gmu
ikso gwuziurnuglkgmvzfgrlgmragwovljggVagbkgZkfu,gmugivzu gouaagbkgxk
bmuzu,grlvafsimgvagunuzt.k tgqulbgbmuzu;gvl gmugavr gbmvbgmuglunuzgmv gv
oviesutgqmkgikso glkbgbuoogmrfgvoogv.ksbgPokzuliugkzgPuzzvzvjggMugvoak
qkso gavtgbmvbgmugauufu gbkgmrfauopgorcugbmkaugqmkgvzugzuv rlxgakfu
wouvavlbgabkztgkzgakfugprlug.kkc,gkpgqmrimgbmutgpuvzgbkgikfugbkgbmugul :
mugpuobgakgfsimgwouvaszugrlgbzvnuoorlxgbmvbgmug zuv u gbmugfkfulbgkp
vzzrnvogvbgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmutgquzugbkgabkwgpkzgbmuglrxmbj

QugauugbmvbgFklbvrxlugbzvnuoou ,gysabgvagmugqzkbu,gikfwoubuotgvbgmra
uvau,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugouvabgiklabzvrlb,gbszlrlx,gysabgvagmugpvliru ,gpzkf
bmugikffklgkzgkz rlvztgzkv agbvculg.tgbkszrabajggBmugxkk grlla,gbmugakpb
.u a,gbmugprlugnruqa,gvbbzvibu gmraglkbriugvbgunuztgwkrlb,gvl grlgmra
k.auznvbrklagklgfulgvl gbmrlxagmugiklprluagmrfauopgimrupotgbkgbmu
wzvibrivogar ujggBmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgmragmuvobmgqvagiklabvlbotg.upkzu
mrf,gvl grbgqvagrlgiklauesuliugkpgbmragbmvb,gqmrougvbgNulriu,gqmrim
 ravwwkrlbu gmrf,gmugbkkcgkiivarklgbkglkbu,gpkzgbmug.uluprbgkpgzuv uza,
bmvbgmugmv gvlgvbbvicgkpgikori,gvl gbmvbgmugunvisvbu gbqkgovzxugabklua
vpbuzgaswwuzjggKlgesrbbrlxgNulriu,gmugqulbgrlgasiiuaarklgbkgPuzzvzv,
Zknrxk,gWv sv,g.kokxlvg(qmuzugmugmv gvgabkfvim-vimu),gPokzuliu,g&ij;gvl 
unuztqmuzu,g.upkzugvorxmbrlx,gmugfv ugrbgvgzsougbkgaul gakfugkpgmra
auznvlbagbkgvaiuzbvrlgqmuzugbmug.uabgviikffk vbrklgqvagbkg.ugmv jggMu
wzklksliu gbmugPokzulbrlugqkfulgbmugprluabgrlgbmugqkzo ,g.sbgmv glkbgvl
uesvootgxkk gkwrlrklgkpgbmugpkk ,gqmrimgqvagouaagwoulbrpsogbmvlgrl
Xuzfvlt,gvl glkbgakgquoogauznu jggMugoubagsagsl uzabvl gbmvbgrlgRbvot
bmutgaul gswg ramuagqrbmksbg zuaarlx,g.sbgrlgXuzfvltgbmutgquzugfsim
.ubbuzgauvaklu ,gvl gauznu gqrbmgvgnvzrubtgkpgavsiuagvl gxzvnruajggMu
zufvzcu gpszbmuz,gbmvbgbmugxovaauagquzugarlxsovzotgafvoogvl gbmugqrlua
rlarwr j

Vpbuzg rlrlxgqrbmgbmugXzvl - scugkpgPokzuliu,gFklbvrxlugwvaau gzvwr ot
knuzgbmugrlbuzfu rvbugikslbzt,gqmrimgmv glkgpvairlvbrklgpkzgmrf,gvl 
vzzrnu gvbgZkfugklgbmugovabg vtgkpgLknuf.uz,gulbuzrlxg.tgbmugWkzbvg uo
Wkwkok,gvl gwsbbrlxgswgvbg.uvzjgg.sbgmugvpbuzqvz agmrzu ,gvbgbqulbt
izkqlagvgfklbm,gprlugpszlramu gzkkfagrlgbmugmksaugkpgvgAwvlrvz ,gqmk
rlios u grlgbmuaugbuzfagbmugsaugkpgbmugcrbimulgprzujggQmvbgfkabgvllktu 
mrfgrlgbmugUbuzlvogIrbtgqvagbmuglsf.uzgkpgPzulimfulgmugfub,gqmkgvoo
avosbu gmrfgrlgmraglvbrnugbklxsu;g.sbgkbmuzqraugmugqvagnuztgikfpkzbv.ou,
vl gmragabvtguhbul u gbkgprnugfklbmajggVgfrl gorcugmra,gpsoogkpgxzvl 
iovaarivogzupouibrkla,gikso glkbgpvrogbkg.ugwzkpksl otgrfwzuaau grlgbmu
wzuauliugkpgbmugzsrlagvbgZkfu,gvl gmugmvagulamzrlu grlgvgfvxlrpriulb
wvaavxugkpgbmugYkszlvogbmugpuuorlxagkpgbmugfkfulb:g“Mugavr ,”gqzrbuagmra
auizubvzt,g“bmvbgvbgZkfugklugavqglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugactgsl uzgqmrimgamugmv 
.uulg.srob,gvl gbmugksborlugkpgmuzgarbu:gbmvbgbmugclkqou xugqugmv gkpgmuz
qvagv.abzvib,giklbufwovbrnu,glkbgwvowv.ougbkgbmugvibsvogaulaua:gbmvb
bmkaugqmkgavr gbmutg.umuo gvbgouvabgbmugzsrlagkpgZkfu,gqulbgbkkgpvz,gpkz
bmugzsrlagkpgakgxrxvlbrigvgabzsibszugfsabgmvnugikffvl u gxzuvbuz
zunuzuliu-rbgqvaglkbmrlxg.sbgmuzgauwsoimzujggBmugqkzo ,gyuvoksagkpgmuz,
wzkoklxu gufwrzu,gmv grlgbmugprzabgwoviug.zkculgbkgwruiuagbmvbgv frzv.ou
.k t,gvl gbmul,gqmulgbmutgwuziurnu gbmvbgbmugzufvrlagvbbzvibu gqkzamrw
vl gvqu,gmv g.szru gbmugnuztgqzuicgrbauopj--[Ikfwvzugvgwvaavxugrlgklu
kpgMkzviugQvowkou’agoubbuzagbkgZrimvz gQuab,g22gFvzimg1740g(Isllrlxmvf’a
u rbjggrjgg41),gqmuzugQvowkou,gawuvcrlxgkpgZkfu,g uaizr.uagmuzgnuztgzsrla
vagzsrlu j]--Vagbkgbmkaugafvoogpzvxfulbagqmrimgquzugabroogbkg.ugauulgkl
bmugaszpviu,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmugvaavsobagkpgbrfugvl gvoogkbmuzgvbbvica,
vxvrlgvl gvxvrlgzuwuvbu ,gbmutgmv g.uulgpvnkszu g.tgpkzbslugbkg.ugakfu
aorxmbgunr uliugkpgbmvbgrlprlrbugxzvl uszgqmrimglkbmrlxgikso gulbrzuot
uhbrlxramjgg.sbgrbgqvagorcuotgbmvbgbmuaug raprxszu gzufvrlagquzugbmu
ouvabgulbrbou gbkgvbbulbrkl,gvl gbmvbgbmugulufruagkpgbmvbgrffkzbvo
zulkql,grlgbmurzgpszt,gmv gv  zuaau gbmufauonuagrlgbmugprzabgrlabvliugbk
bmug uabzsibrklgkpgqmvbgqvagfkabg.uvsbrpsogvl gqkzbmruabgkpgwzuauznvbrkl;
vl gbmvbgbmug.sro rlxagkpgbmrag.vabvz gZkfu,gzvrau gswklgbmugvlirulb
wzk sibrkla,gvobmksxmgbmutgfrxmbguhirbugbmugv frzvbrklgkpgbmugwzuaulb
vxu,gzufrl u gmrfgkpgbmugizkqa’gvl gawvzzkqa’gluabag.srobgrlgbmugqvooa
vl gvzimuagkpgbmugko gimszimua,g uabzktu g.tgbmugMsxsulkbajggVxvrl,gmu
qvagvwwzumularnu,gauurlxgbmugawviugqmrimgbmragxzvnugkiiswru ,gbmvbgbmu
qmkougfrxmbglkbgmvnug.uulgzuiknuzu ,gvl gbmvbgbmug.szrvogrbauopgmv g.uul
.szru jggVl ,gfkzuknuz,gbkgauugvgqzubimu gmuvwgkpgzs..ram,gvagwruiuagkp
brougvl gwkbbuzt,gxzkqg(vagrbgmv gvxuagarliu)gbkgvgmurxmbguesvogbkgbmvb
kpgFkslbgXszakl,--[RlgWuzrxkz j]--vl gbmzriugbmugqr bmgkpgrb,gvwwuvzu gbk
amkqgvgiklawrzvitgkpg uabrltgvxvrlabgbmugxokztgvl gwzu-ufrluliugkpgbmvb
irbt,gvppkz rlxgvbgbmugavfugbrfugvglknuogvl guhbzvkz rlvztgwzkkpgkpgrba
 uwvzbu gxzuvbluaajggMug(Fklbvrxlu)gk.auznu gbmvbgrbgqvag rpprisobgbk
.uorunugiklar uzrlxgbmugorfrbu gvzuvgbvculgswg.tgvltgkpgmuzgaunulgmrooa
vl gwvzbrisovzotgbmugbqkgfkabgpvnkszu gklua,gbmugIvwrbkorlugvl gbmu
Wvovbrlu,gbmvbgakgfvltg.sro rlxagabkk gklgbmugarbujggYs xrlxgklotgpzkf
qmvbgragoupbgkpgbmugBufwougkpgIklikz ,gvoklxgbmug‘PkzsfgZkfvlsf’,gkp
qmrimgbmugpvoogauufagesrbugzuiulb,gorcugbmvbgkpgakfugmsxugfkslbvrlgaworb
rlbkgmkzzr.ougizvxa,grbg kuaglkbgokkcgvagrpgfkzugbmvlgbqkgasimgu rpriua
ikso gmvnugpksl gzkkfgklgbmugIvwrbkorlu,gklgqmrimgbmuzugquzugvbgklu
wuzrk gpzkfgprnu-vl -bqulbtgbkgbmrzbtgbufwoua,g.uar uagwzrnvbug quoorlxaj
.sb,grlgwkrlbgkpgpvib,gbmuzugragaivziuotgvltgwzk.v.rorbtgkpgbmugnruqa
qmrimgqugbvcugkpgbmugirbtg.urlxgikzzuib,grbagwovlgvl gpkzfgmvnrlxgimvlxu 
rlprlrbuot;gpkzgrlabvliu,gbmug‘Nuov.zsf’,gqmrimgklgviikslbgkpgrba
 uwzuaau gounuo,gzuiurnu gbmugauqvxugkpgbmugirbt,gvl gmv gvgovcu,gmva
.uulgzvrau g.tgvzbrprirvogviisfsovbrklgbkgvgmurxmbgqrbmgbmugkbmuzgmrooa,
vl gFkslbgAvnuookgmva,grlgbzsbm,gxzkqlgarfwotgksbgkpgbmugzsrlagkpgbmu
bmuvbzugkpgFvziuoosajggMug.uorunu gbmvbgvlgvlirulbgZkfvlgqkso glkb
zuikxlraugbmugwoviugvxvrljggRbgkpbulgmvwwulu gbmvbgrlg rxxrlxg kqlgrlbk
uvzbmgbmugqkzcfulgivfugswklgbmugizkqlgkpgakfugokpbtgikosfl,gqmrim,gbmksxm
bmsag.szru ,gqvagabroogabvl rlxgswzrxmbjggBmugwukwougbmuzugmvnuglk
zuikszaugbkgkbmuzgpksl vbrklagbmvlgbmugnvsobagvl gvzimuagkpgbmugko 
mksaua,gswklgqmrim,gvagklgaov.agkpgzkic,gbmutgzvraugbmurzgfk uzlgwvoviuaj
Rbgraguvatgbkgauugbmvbgaunuzvogkpgbmugvlirulbgabzuubagvzugbmrzbtgpuub
.uokqgbmkaugvbgwzuaulbgrlgsauj”

AiuwbrivogvagFklbvrxlugamkqagmrfauopgrlgmrag.kkca,gtubg szrlxgmragakykszl
vbgZkfugmugfvlrpuabu gvgxzuvbgzuxvz gpkzgzuorxrkljggMugakorirbu gbmu
mklkszgkpg.urlxgv frbbu gbkgcraagbmugpuubgkpgbmugMkotgPvbmuz,gXzuxkzt
HRRRj;gvl gbmugWklbrppguhmkzbu gmrfgvoqvtagbkgiklbrlsugrlgbmug unkbrkl
qmrimgmugmv gmrbmuzbkguhmr.rbu gbkgbmugImszimgvl gbmugauznriugkpgbmugFkab
ImzrabrvlgCrlxj

“Vpbuzgbmra,gklugauua,”gavtagbmugu rbkzgkpgbmugYkszlvo,g“Fklbvrxlu
ufwoktrlxgvoogmragbrfugrlgfvcrlxguhiszarklag.ksbgbmuglurxm.kszmkk gkl
mkzau.vicgkzgklgpkkb,grlgnrarba,grlgk.auznvbrklagkpgunuztgcrl jggBmu
imszimua,gbmugabvbrkla,gbmugwzkiuaarklagunul,gbmugauzfkla;gbmulgbmu
wvoviua,gbmugnrlutvz a,gbmugxvz ula,gbmugws.origvfsaufulba,gvagbmu
Ivzlrnvo,g&ij--lkbmrlxgqvagknuzokkcu jggMugavqgvgYuqramgimro 
irzisfirau ,gvl gqzkbug kqlgvgfkabgfrlsbugviikslbgkpgbmugkwuzvbrkljggMu
fubgvbgAvlgArabkgvgFsaiknrbugvf.vaav kz,gbmugauikl gqmkgmv gikfugbkgZkfu
arliugbmugwklbrprivbugkpgWvsogRRRjggBmragfrlrabuzgmv g uawvbimuagpzkfgmra
ikszbgpkzgNulriu,gv  zuaau gbkgbmug‘Xzvl gXknuzlkzgkpgbmugArxlkzt’jggBmu
ikszbgkpgFsaikntgmv gvbgbmvbgbrfugasimgorfrbu gzuovbrklagqrbmgbmugkbmuz
wkquzagkpgUszkwu,gvl grbgqvagakgrfwuzpuibgrlgrbagrlpkzfvbrkl,gbmvbgrb
bmksxmbgNulriugbkg.ugvg uwul ulitgkpgbmugMkotgAuuj”

Kpgvoogbmugwvzbrisovzagqrbmgqmrimgmugmvagpszlramu gsag szrlxgmragabvtgvb
Zkfu,gbmugpkookqrlxgwvaavxugrlgzupuzuliugbkgbmugUaavtagraglkbgbmugouvab
arlxsovz:g“BmugFvabuzgkpgbmugAvizu gWvoviugzubszlu gmrfgmragUaavta,
ivabrxvbu grlgviikz vliugqrbmgbmugnruqagkpgbmugouvzlu gfklcajgg‘Mugmv 
klotg.uulgv.ougbkgpkzfgvgys xfulbgkpgbmuf,’gavr gmu,g‘bmzksxmgvgiuzbvrl
Pzulimgfklc,glkbgsl uzabvl rlxgPzulimgmrfauop’”--qugouvnugFklbvrxlu
mrfauopgbkgbuoogbmugabkzt--“vl gmugzuiurnu gakgikfwoviulbotgftguhisaua
vl guhwovlvbrklagklguvimgkpgbmugwvaavxuagqmrimgmv g.uulgvlrfv nuzbu gswkl
.tgbmugPzulimgfklc,gbmvbgmugiklios u g.tgouvnrlxgfugvbgor.uzbtgbkgzunrau
bmugbuhbgvxzuuv.otgbkgbmug ribvbuagkpgftgkqlgiklairuliujggRg.uxxu gmrf,
klgbmugiklbzvzt,gbkgv.r ug.tgbmugkwrlrklgkpgbmugwuzaklgqmkgmv gizrbrirau 
fu,giklpuaarlx,gvfklxgkbmuzgfvbbuza,gva,gpkzguhvfwou,grlgftgsaugkpgbmu
qkz gpkzbslu,grlgeskbrlxgmrabkzrivogwkuba,grlgftgvwkokxtgpkzgYsorvl,grl
ftgvlrfv nuzarklgklgbmugbmukztgbmvbgmugqmkgwzvtu gksxmbgbkg.uguhufwbgpzkf
nrirksagrliorlvbrklagpkzgbmugbrfug.urlx;grbuf,grlgftguabrfvbugkpgizsuobt,
vagakfubmrlxg.utkl garfwoug uvbm;grbuf,grlgftgnruqgbmvbgvgimro gksxmbgbk
.ug.zksxmbgswgbkg kgunuztbmrlx,gvl gakgkl;gbmvbgbmuaugquzugftgkwrlrkla,
qmrimgRg r glkbgbmrlcgqzklx;gvagbkgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gRgavr gbmvbgbmu
ikzzuibkzgsl uzabkk glkbgftgfuvlrlxjggBmugFvabuz,gqmkgragvgiounuzgfvl,
fv ugfvltguhisauagpkzgfu,gvl gxvnugfugbkgaswwkaugbmvbgmug r glkbgiklisz
rlgbmugasxxuabu grfwzknufulba;gvl gwouv u gnuztgrlxulrksaotgpkzgfugrlgft
wzuauliugvxvrlabgvlkbmuzg(voakgvlgRbvorvl)gqmkgkwwkau gftgaulbrfulbaj”

Asimgragqmvbgwvaau g.ubquulgFklbvrxlugvl gbmuaugbqkgwuzaklvxuagvbgbmvb
brfu;g.sbgqmulgbmugUaavtrabgqvagouvnrlx,gvl gqulbgbkg.r gbmufgpvzuquoo,
bmutgsau gnuztg rppuzulbgovlxsvxugbkgmrfjgg“Bmutgwzvtu gfu,”gavtagmu,
“bkgwvtglkgvbbulbrklgbkgbmugiulaszugwvaau gklgftg.kkc,grlgqmrimgkbmuz
Pzulimgwuzaklagmv gvwwzrau gbmufgbmvbgbmuzugquzugfvltgpkkoramgbmrlxa;
v  rlx,gbmvbgbmutgmklkszu gftgvppuibrklvbugrlbulbrklgbkqvz agbmugImszim,
vl gftgivwvirbt;gvl gmv gakgmrxmgvlgkwrlrklgkpgftgivl kszgvl 
iklairulbrksaluaagbmvbgbmutgamkso gouvnugrbgbkgfugbkgfvcugasim
vobuzvbrklagvagquzugwzkwuzgrlgbmug.kkc,gqmulgRgzuwzrlbu grb;gvfklxgkbmuz
bmrlxa,gbmugqkz gpkzbslujggBkguhisaugbmufauonuagpkzgqmvbgbmutgmv gavr 
vxvrlabgftg.kkc,gbmutgrlabvliu gqkzcagkpgkszgbrfug.tgivz rlvoagvl gkbmuz
 rnrluagkpguhiuooulbgzuwsbugqmrimgmv g.uulg.ovfu gpkzgarfrovzgpvsoba,
qmrimgrlglkgqvtgvppuibu gzuwsbvbrklgkpgbmugvsbmkz,gkzgkpgbmugws.orivbrkl
vagvgqmkou;gbmutgzuesuabu gfugbkgoul gbmugImszimgbmugaswwkzbgkpgft
uokesuliug(bmragqvagbmurzgpvrzgawuuim),gvl gbkgfvcugoklxuzgabvtgrlgbmu
woviu,gqmuzugRgamkso g.ugpzuugpzkfgvoogpszbmuzgrlbzsarklgklgbmurzgwvzbj
Rbgauufu gbkgfugbmvbgqugwvzbu gnuztgxkk gpzrul aj”

.upkzugesrbbrlxgZkfu,gFklbvrxlugzuiurnu gmrag rwokfvgkpgirbrdulamrw,g.t
qmrimgmugqvagxzuvbotgpovbbuzu ;gvl gvpbuzgvgnrarbgbkgBrnkorgmugaubgksb
pkzgOkzubbk,gabkwwrlxgvbgVliklv,gPvlk,gvl gSz.rlkjggMugvzzrnu gvbgbmu
.uxrllrlxgkpgFvtg1581,gvbg.vxlkg uoovgNroov,gqmuzugmuguabv.oramu 
mrfauop,gkz uzgbkgbztgbmugqvbuzajggBmuzu,gqugprl grlgbmugYkszlvo,gkpgmra
kqlgviikz gbmugUaavtrabgornu grlgbmugabzribuabgiklpkzfrbtgqrbmgbmu
zuxrfu,gvl gmuliupkzbmgqugklotgmuvzgkpg rub,gbmuguppuibgqmrimgbmugqvbuza
mv g.tg uxzuuagswklgatabuf,gkpgbmugfvlluzgrlgqmrimgmugbkkcgbmuf;grlgv
qkz ,gmug kuaglkbgkfrbgvlgrbufgkpgbmugirzisfabvliuagiklluibu gqrbmgmra
 vrotgzksbrlu,gmragmv.rbgkpg.k t,gmrag.vbma,gvl gbmugzuabjggRbgqvaglk
oklxuzgbmugykszlvogkpgvgbzvnuoouzgqmrimgmugcuwb,g.sbgbmug rvztgkpgvl
rlnvor ,--[“Rgvfgzuv rlxgFklbvrxlu’agBzvnuoa,gqmrimgmvnugovbuotg.uul
pksl ;gbmuzugragorbbougrlgbmufg.sbgbmug.vbmagvl gfu rirluagmugbkkc,gvl 
qmvbgmugmv gunuztqmuzugpkzg rlluzj”--MjggQvowkougbkgArzgMkzviugFvll,gYslu
8,g1774j]--vbbulbrnugbkgbmugfrlsbuabg ubvroagkpgbmugiszugqmrimgmugqva
ul uvnkszrlxgbkgviikfworam:gvgakzbgkpgfufkzvl sfg.kkc,grlgqmrimgmugqva
lkbrlxg kqlgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgmugpuobgvl g r ,gpkzgbmug.uluprbgkpgmra
fu rivogfvlgvbgmkfu,gqmkgqkso gmvnugbmugivzugkpgmragmuvobmgklgmragzubszl,
vl gbmugvbbul vliugklgmragas.auesulbgrlprzfrbruajggFklbvrxlugxrnuagrbgva
mragzuvaklgvl gysabrprivbrklgpkzgulovzxrlxgbkgbmraguhbulbgmuzu,gbmvbgmu
mv gkfrbbu ,gbkgmragzuxzub,gbkg kgakgrlgmragnrarbagbkgkbmuzg.vbma,gqmrim
frxmbgmvnugavnu gmrfgbmugbzks.ougkpgqzrbrlxgvbgasimgxzuvbgoulxbmglkq;g.sb
rbgragwuzmvwagvg.ubbuzgzuvaklgrlgkszgutua,gbmvbgqmvbgmugqzkbugmugqzkbu
pkzgmragkqlgsauj

Qugprl grlgbmuaugviikslba,gmkqunuz,gfvltgbksimuagqmrimgvzugnvosv.ougva
roosabzvbrlxgbmugfvlluzagkpgbmugwoviujggBmugxzuvbuzgwvzbgkpgbmugulbzrua
rlgbmugYkszlvo,gxrnrlxgbmugviikslbgkpgbmuaugqvbuza,gvl gkpgbmugbzvnuoa,
 kqlgbkgFklbvrxlu’agvzzrnvogvbgbmugprzabgPzulimgbkqlgklgmragmkfuqvz 
zksbu,gvzugrlgRbvorvl,g.uivsaugmugqramu gbkguhuziraugmrfauopgrlgbmvb
ovlxsvxuj

Bmugfrlsbugvl giklabvlbgqvbimpsoluaagkpgFklbvrxlugknuzgmragmuvobmgvl 
knuzgmrfauopgfrxmbgouv gklugbkgasawuibgbmvbguhiuaarnugpuvzgkpg uvbmgqmrim
 uxuluzvbuagrlbkgikqvz riujgg.sbgqvagrbglkbgzvbmuzgbmugpuvzgkpgbmu
kwuzvbrklgpkzgbmugabklu,gvbgbmvbgbrfugzuvootgpkzfr v.ou?ggKzgwuzmvwagmu
qvagkpgbmugavfugqvtgkpgbmrlcrlxgqrbmgbmugXzuucgwkub,gkpgqmkfgIriuzk
zuwkzbagbmragavtrlx:g“Rg kglkbg uarzugbkg ru;g.sbgbmugbmksxmbgkpg.urlx
 uv gragrl rppuzulbgbkgfuj”ggOubgsagmuvz,gmkqunuz,gqmvbgmugavtagmrfauop
klgbmragwkrlbgnuztgpzvlcot:g“Rbgqkso g.ugbkkgquvcgvl gslfvlotgklgftgwvzb
rp,giuzbvrlgvagRgvfgkpgvoqvtagprl rlxgftauopgrlgbmugwkarbrklgkpgmvnrlxgbk
asiisf.grlgbmvbgqvt,--[Bkgbmugabklugkzgxzvnuoj]--vl g uvbmgikfrlxgluvzuz
vl gluvzuzgbkgfu,gRg r glkbgfvcugakfuguppkzb,g.upkzugbmugbrfugivfu,gbk
.uvzgbmugbzrvogqrbmgpkzbrbs ujggPkzgzuvaklgwzuaizr.uagbmvbgqugamkso 
yktpsootgviiuwbgqmvbgrbgfvtgwouvaugXk gbkgaul gsajggBmuzupkzugbmugklot
zufu t,gbmugklotgzsou,gvl gbmugakoug kibzrlugpkzgvnkr rlxgbmugunroag.t
qmrimgfvlcrl gragaszzksl u ,gqmvbunuzgbmutgvzu,gragbkgzuakonugbkg.uvz
bmufgakgpvzgvagkszglvbszugwuzfrba,gkzgbkgwsbgvlgul gbkgbmufgikszvxuksaot
vl gwzkfwbotj”

MugqvagabroogvbgbmugqvbuzagkpgOvgNroov,gqmul,gklgbmug7bmgAuwbuf.uzg1581,
mugouvzlu g.tgoubbuzgbmvbgmugmv g.uulguouibu gFvtkzgkpg.kz uvshgklgbmu
1abgVsxsabgwzuiu rlxjggBmragrlbuoorxuliugfv ugmrfgmvabulgmrag uwvzbszu;
vl gpzkfgOsiivgmugwzkiuu u gbkgZkfujggMugvxvrlgfv ugakfugabvtgrlgbmvb
irbt,gvl gmugbmuzugzuiurnu gbmugoubbuzgkpgbmugyszvbagkpg.kz uvsh,
lkbrptrlxgbkgmrfgkpprirvootgmraguouibrklgbkgbmugFvtkzvobt,gvl grlnrbrlx
mrfgbkgzubszlgvagawuu rotgvagwkaar.oujggMugoupbgpkzgPzvliu,gviikfwvlru 
.tgtkslxg ’Uabraavigvl gaunuzvogkbmuzgxulbouful,gqmkguaikzbu gmrfgv
iklar uzv.oug rabvliu;g.sbglklugqulbg.vicgbkgPzvliugqrbmgmrf,glkbgunul
mragbzvnuoorlxgikfwvlrkljggMugwvaau g.tgWv sv,gFrovl,gFklbgIulra,gvl 
Imvf.uzt;gbmuliugmugqulbgklgbkgOtkla,gvl gokabglkgbrfugrlgzuwvrzrlxgbk
mragimvbuvs,gvpbuzgvlgv.auliugkpgaunulbuulgfklbmagvl gurxmbg vtaj

Qugmvnugysabgauulgbmvb,g szrlxgmragv.auliugrlgRbvot,gbmugvsbmkzgkpgbmu
Uaavtagqvaguouibu gfvtkzgkpg.kz uvshjgg“Bmugxulboufulgkpg.kz uvsh,”gavta
mu,g“uouibu gfugFvtkzgkpgbmurzgbkqlgqmrougRgqvagvbgvg rabvliugpzkf
Pzvliu,gvl gpvzgpzkfgbmugbmksxmbgkpgasimgvgbmrlxjggRguhisau gftauop;g.sb
bmutgxvnugbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgRgqvagqzklxgrlgakg krlx,grbg.urlxgvoakgbmu
ikffvl gkpgbmugcrlxgbmvbgRgamkso gabvl j”ggBmragbmugoubbuzgqmrimgMulzt
RRRjgqzkbugbkgmrfgklgbmugkiivarkl:

FKLARUSZ,g UgFKLBVRXLU,--RlvafsimgvagRgmko grlgxzuvbguabuufgtkszgpr uorbt
vl gduvoksag unkbrklgbkgftgauznriu,grbgmvag.uulgvgwouvaszugbkgfugbkgouvzl
bmvbgtksgmvnug.uulgimkaulgfvtkzgkpgftgbkqlgkpg.kz uvshjggRgmvnugmv gbmu
vxzuuv.oug sbtgkpgiklprzfrlxgbmugauouibrkl,gvl gRg r gakgbmugfkzu
qroorlxot,gauurlxgbmvbgrbgqvagfv ug szrlxgtkszg rabvlbgv.auliu;gqmuzupkzu
rbgragftg uarzu,gvl gRgzuesrzugvl gikffvl gtksguhwzuaaotgbmvbgtksgwzkiuu 
qrbmksbg uovtgbkgulbuzgklgbmug sbruagbkgqmrimgtksgmvnugzuiurnu gak
ouxrbrfvbugvgivoojggVl gakgtksgqroogvibgrlgvgfvlluzgnuztgvxzuuv.ougbkgfu,
qmrougbmugiklbzvztgqroog rawouvaugfugxzuvbotjggWzvtrlxgXk ,gFjg u
Fklbvrxlu,gbkgmvnugtksgrlgmragmkotgcuuwrlxj

“QzrbbulgvbgWvzra,gbmug25bmg vtgkpgLknuf.uzg1581j

“MULZRj

“VgFklaruszg ugFKLBVRXLU,
ClrxmbgkpgftgKz uz,gXulboufvlgrlgKz rlvztgkpgft
Imvf.uz,g.urlxgvbgwzuaulbgrlgZkfuj”

Fklbvrxlu,grlgmragluqgufwoktfulb,gbmugfkabgrfwkzbvlbgrlgbmugwzknrliu,
k.utu gbmugvhrkf,gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtglkbgzupsaugvg sbt,gbmksxmgrbgv.akz.gmra
brfugvl gvbbulbrkl,gvl gunulgrlnkonugbmugavizrpriugkpgmrag.okk jggWoviu 
.ubquulgbqkguhbzufugwvzbrua,gunuzgklgbmugwkrlbgkpgxubbrlxgbkg.okqa,gmu
amkqu gmrfauopgrlgwzvibriugqmvbgmugragrlgmrag.kkc,gbmugpzrul gkpgvgfr  ou
vl gbufwuzvbugwkoritjggBkouzvlbg.tgimvzvibuzgvl gklgwzrlirwou,gmu
.uoklxu ,gorcugvoogbmugxzuvbgfrl agkpgbmugarhbuulbmgiulbszt,gbkgbmvb
wkorbrivogauibgqmrimgaksxmbgbkgrfwzknu,gqrbmksbg uabzktrlx,grlabrbsbrkla;
vl gqugfvtgavtgkpgmrf,gqmvbgmugmrfauopgavr gkpgOvg.kubru,g“bmvbgmugmv 
bmvbgfvhrfgrl uor.otgrfwzuaau gklgmragfrl ,gbkgk.utgvl gas.frbgmrfauop
zuorxrksaotgbkgbmugovqagsl uzgqmrimgmugqvag.kzljggVppuibrklvbuotgvbbvimu 
bkgbmugzuwkaugkpgmragikslbzt,gvlguluftgbkgimvlxuagvl grllknvbrkla,gmu
qkso gmvnugwzupuzzu gbkgufwoktgqmvbgfuvlagmugmv gbkqvz agbmurz
 raikszvxufulbgvl gaswwzuaarkl,gbmvlgrlgwzkfkbrlxgbmurzgasiiuaaj”ggAsim
qvagbmugwovbpkzfgkpgmragv frlrabzvbrklj

Mugvwworu gmrfauop,grlgvlguawuirvogfvlluz,gbkgbmugfvrlbulvliugkpgwuviu
.ubquulgbmugbqkgzuorxrksagpvibrklagqmrimgvbgbmvbgbrfug rnr u gbmugbkqlgkp
.kz uvsh;gvl gvbgbmugul gkpgmragbqkgprzabgtuvzagkpgkppriu,gmragxzvbupso
puookq-irbrdulagiklpuzzu gklgmrfg(rlg1583)gbmugfvtkzvobtgpkzgbqkgtuvza
fkzu,gvg rabrlibrklgqmrimgmv g.uulgulyktu ,gvagmugbuooagsa,gklotgbqriu
.upkzujggKlgbmuguhwrzvbrklgkpgmragkpprirvogivzuuz,gvpbuzgpkszgtuvza’
 szvbrkl,gmugikso gavtgpvrzotgulksxmgkpgmrfauopgbmvbgmugoupbg.umrl gmrf
lurbmuzgmvbzu glkzgivsaugkpgkppuliuj

Rlgbmugfr abgkpgbmugivzuagkpgxknuzlfulb,gFklbvrxlugpksl gbrfugbkgzunrau
vl gulovzxugmragUaavta,gqmrim,garliugbmurzgvwwuvzvliugrlg1580,gquzu
iklbrlsvootgzuiurnrlxgvsxfulbvbrklgrlgbmugpkzfgkpgv  rbrklvogimvwbuzagkz
wvwuzajggBqkgfkzugu rbrklagquzugwzrlbu grlg1582gvl g1587;gvl g szrlxgbmra
brfugbmugvsbmkz,gqmrougfvcrlxgvobuzvbrklagrlgbmugkzrxrlvogbuhb,gmv 
ikfwkau gwvzbgkpgbmugBmrz g.kkcjggMugqulbgbkgWvzragbkgfvcugvzzvlxufulba
pkzgbmugws.orivbrklgkpgmragulovzxu gov.ksza,gvl gvgpkszbmgrfwzuaarklgrl
1588gqvagbmugzuasobjggMugzufvrlu grlgbmugivwrbvogakfugbrfugklgbmra
kiivarkl,gvl grbgqvaglkqgbmvbgmugfubgpkzgbmugprzabgbrfugFv ufkrauooug u
XkszlvtjggXrpbu gqrbmgvlgvibrnugvl grlesrzrlxgawrzrb,gvl ,gv.knugvoo,
wkaauaarlxgvgaksl gvl gmuvobmtgbklugkpgfrl ,gFv ufkrauooug ugXkszlvtgmv 
.uulgivzzru gpzkfgmuzgimro mkk gqrbmgbmvbgbr ugqmrimgaubgrlgqrbm
arhbuulbmgiulbsztgbkqvz agiklbzknuzat,gouvzlrlx,gvl gclkqou xujggAmu
ouvzlbgOvbrlgqrbmksbgvgfvabuz;gvl gqmul,gbmugvxugkpgurxmbuul,gamu
viir ulbvootg.uivfugwkaauaakzgkpgvgikwtgkpgbmugUaavta,gamugqva
bzvlawkzbu gqrbmg uorxmbgvl gv frzvbrklj

Amugesrbbu gbmugimvbuvsgkpgXkszlvt,gbkgikfugvl gauugmrfjggQugivllkbg k
.ubbuz,grlgiklluibrklgqrbmgbmragykszlutgkpgatfwvbmt,gbmvlgbkgzuwuvbgbmu
qkz agkpgWvaesruz:g“Bmvbgtkslxgov t,gvooru gbkgaunuzvogxzuvbgvl glk.ou
pvfroruagkpgWvzra,gwzkwkau gbkgmuzauopglkgkbmuzgfvzzrvxugbmvlgqrbmgmuz
mklksz,gulzrimu gqrbmgbmugclkqou xugxvrlu gpzkfgxkk g.kkca,gvl ,g.utkl 
voogkbmuza,gpzkfgbmuguaavtagkpgFjg ugFklbvrxlu,gqmkgfvcrlxgrlgbmugtuvz
1588gvgoulxbmulu gabvtgrlgbmugbkqlgkpgWvzra,gamugqulbgbmuzugpkzgbmu
wszwkaugkpgpkzfrlxgmragwuzaklvogviesvrlbvliu;gvl gmuzgfkbmuz,gFv vfug u
Xkszlvt,gvl gmuzauopgbkkcgmrfg.vicgqrbmgbmufgbkgbmurzgimvbuvs,gqmuzu,gvb
bqkgkzgbmzuug rppuzulbgbrfua,gmugawulbgbmzuugfklbmagvobkxubmuz,gfkab
quoikfugkpgnrarbkzaj”ggRbgqvagpzkfgbmragfkfulbgbmvbgFv ufkrauooug u
Xkszlvtg vbu gmuzgv kwbrklgvagFklbvrxlu’ag vsxmbuz,gvgirzisfabvliugqmrim
mvagbul u gbkgiklpuzgrffkzbvorbtgswklgmuzgrlgvgpvzgxzuvbuzgfuvaszugbmvl
muzgkqlgorbuzvztgwzk sibrklaj

Fklbvrxlu,gklgouvnrlxgWvzra,gabvtu gvgamkzbgbrfugvbg.okra,gbkgvbbul gbmu
fuubrlxgkpgbmugAbvbua-XuluzvojggQug kglkbgclkqgqmvbgwvzbgmugbkkcgrlgbmvb
vaauf.ot:g.sbgrbgragclkqlgbmvbgmugqvagikffraarklu ,gv.ksbgbmragwuzrk ,gbk
luxkbrvbug.ubquulgMulztgkpgLvnvzzug(vpbuzqvz agMulztgRNj)gvl gbmug scugkp
XsraujggMragwkorbrivogorpugragvofkabgvg.ovlc;g.sbg ugBmksgvaaszuagsagbmvb
Fklbvrxlugulyktu gbmugiklpr uliugkpgbmugwzrlirwvogwuzaklagkpgmragbrfuj
 ugBmks,gqmkgivooagmrfgvgpzvlcgfvlgqrbmksbgiklabzvrlb,gbuooagsagbmvb,
qvocrlxgqrbmgmrfgvl gWvaesruzgrlgbmugikszbgvbgbmugIvabougkpg.okra,gmu
muvz gmrfgwzklksliugakfugnuztgzufvzcv.ougkwrlrklagklgiklbufwkzvztgunulba,
vl gmugv  agbmvbgFklbvrxlugmv gpkzuauulgbmvbgbmugbzks.ouagrlgPzvliugikso 
lkbgul gqrbmksbgqrbluaarlxgbmug uvbmgkpgurbmuzgbmugCrlxgkpgLvnvzzugkzgkp
bmug scugkpgXsraujggMugmv gfv ugmrfauopgakgikfwoubuotgfvabuzgkpgbmugnruqa
kpgbmuaugbqkgwzrliua,gbmvbgmugbko g ugBmksgbmvbgbmugCrlxgkpgLvnvzzugqkso 
mvnug.uulgwzuwvzu gbkguf.zviugIvbmkoriraf,grpgmugmv glkbg.uulgvpzvr gkp
.urlxgv.vl klu g.tgmragwvzbt,gvl gbmvbgbmug scugkpgXsrau,gklgmragwvzb,
mv glkgwvzbrisovzgzuwsxlvliugbkgbmugIklpuaarklgkpgVsxa.szx,gpkzgqmrimgbmu
Ivz rlvogkpgOkzzvrlu,gmragsliou,gmv grlawrzu gmrfgqrbmgvgorcrlx,grpgrb
mv glkbg.uulgpkzgbmugwuzrogrlnkonu grlgesrbbrlxgbmugZkframgikffslrkljggRb
qkso gmvnug.uulguvatgpkzgFklbvrxlugbkgwovt,gvagqugivoogrb,gvgxzuvbgwvzb
rlgwkorbria,gvl gizuvbugpkzgmrfauopgvgokpbtgwkarbrklg.sbgmragfkbbkgqva,
‘KbrkgubgOr.uzbvbr’;gvl gmugzubszlu gesrubotgmkfugbkgikfwkaugvgimvwbuz
pkzgmragluhbgu rbrklgklgrliklnulruliuagkpgXzuvbluaaj

BmugvsbmkzgkpgbmugUaavtagqvaglkqgprpbt-prnujggBmugfvov tgqmrimgbkzfulbu 
mrfgxzuqgklotgqkzaugvl gqkzaugqrbmgtuvza;gvl gtubgmugkiiswru gmrfauop
iklbrlsvootgqrbmgzuv rlx,gfu rbvbrlx,gvl gikfwkarbrkljggMugufwoktu gbmu
tuvzag1589,g1590,gvl g1591grlgfvcrlxgpzuamgv  rbrklagbkgmrag.kkc;gvl 
unulgrlgbmugvwwzkvimuagkpgko gvxugmugfrxmbgpvrzotgvlbrirwvbugfvltgmvwwt
mksza,gqmulgmugqvagvbbvicu g.tgesrlat,g uwzrnrlxgmrfgkpgbmugwkquz
sbbuzvliujggWvaesruz,gqmkgmvagoupbgsagakfug ubvroaggmragovabgmksza,
lvzzvbuagbmvbgmugzufvrlu gbmzuug vtagrlgpsoogwkaauaarklgkpgmragpvisobrua,
.sbgslv.ougbkgawuvc,gakgbmvb,grlgkz uzgbkgfvcugclkqlgmrag uarzua,gmugqva
k.orxu gbkgzuakzbgbkgqzrbrlx;gvl gvagmugpuobgmragul g zvqrlxgluvz,gmu
.uxxu gmragqrpugbkgasffklgiuzbvrlgkpgbmugxulboufulgqmkgornu grlgbmu
lurxm.kszmkk gbkg.r gbmufgvgovabgpvzuquoojggQmulgbmutgmv gvzzrnu ,gmu
ivsau gfvaagbkg.ugiuou.zvbu grlgvwvzbfulb;gvl gysabgvagbmugwzruabgqva
uounvbrlxgbmugmkab,gFklbvrxlugpuoogpkzqvz gqrbmgmragvzfaguhbul u grl
pzklbgkpgmrf,gklgbmug.u ,gvl gakguhwrzu jggMugqvagrlgmragarhbrubmgtuvzj
Rbgqvagbmug13bmgAuwbuf.uzg1592j

Fklbvrxlugqvag.szru gluvzgmragkqlgmksau;g.sbgvgpuqgtuvzagvpbuzgmra
 uiuvau,gmragzufvrlagquzugzufknu gbkgbmugimszimgkpgvgIkffvl uztgkpgAbj
Vlbkrlugvbg.kz uvsh,gqmuzugbmutgabroogiklbrlsujggMragfklsfulbgqva
zuabkzu grlg1803g.tgvg uaiul vlbjggRbgqvagauulgv.ksbg1858g.tgvlgUlxoram
bzvnuoouzg(FzjgAbjggYkml)j’--[“FklbvrxlugbmugUaavtrab,”g.tg.vtougAbj
Ykml,g1858,g2gnkoajgg8nk,gragklugkpgfkabg uorxmbpsog.kkcagkpgbmugcrl j]--
vl gqvagbmulgrlgxkk gwzuauznvbrklj

Rlg1595gFv ufkrauooug ugXkszlvtgws.oramu gvgluqgu rbrklgkpgFklbvrxlu’a
Uaavta,gvl gbmugprzabgqrbmgbmugovbuabguful vbrklagkpgbmugvsbmkz,gpzkfgv
ikwtgwzuaulbu gbkgmuzg.tgmragqr kq,gvl gqmrimgmvaglkbg.uulgzuiknuzu ,
vobmksxmgrbgragclkqlgbkgmvnug.uulgrlguhrabuliugakfugtuvzagvpbuzgbmug vbu
kpgbmugrfwzuaarkl,gfv ugklgrbagvsbmkzrbtj

Iko otgvagFklbvrxlu’agorbuzvztgwzk sibrklagvwwuvzgbkgmvnug.uulgzuiurnu 
.tgbmugxuluzvbrklgrffu rvbuotgasiiuu rlxgmragkqlgvxu,gmragxulrsagxzuq
rlbkgysabgvwwzuirvbrklgrlgbmugaunulbuulbmgiulbszt,gqmulgasimgxzuvb
awrzrbagvzkaugvagOvg.zstuzu,gFkoruzu,gOvgPklbvrlu,gFv vfug ugAunrxluj
“K,”guhiovrfu gbmugImvbuovrlug uagZkimuza,g“qmvbgivwrbvogikfwvltgmugra,
bmug uvzgfvl!ggmugragftgko gpzrul ;gvl gysabgpkzgbmugzuvaklgbmvbgmugra
ak,gmugvoqvtagauufagluqjggFtgXk !ggmkqgpsoogragbmvbg.kkcgkpgaulau!”
g.vodvigavr gbmvbgmugmv givzzru gmsfvlgzuvaklgvagpvzgvl gvagmrxmgvagrb
ikso gxk,g.kbmgrlgwkorbriagvl grlgfkzvoajggKlgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gFvou.zvlimu
vl gbmugqzrbuzagkpgWkzbgZktvogquzugvxvrlabgmrf;gakfugzuwzumul u gbmu
oriulbrksaluaagkpgmragqzrbrlxa;gkbmuzagbmurzgrfwrubt,gfvbuzrvoraf,
uwriszuvlrafjggUnulgWvaivo,gqmkgmv givzupsootgzuv gbmugUaavta,gvl gxvrlu 
lkgafvoogwzkprbg.tgbmuf,g r glkbgawvzugmragzuwzkvimuajgg.sbgFklbvrxlugmva
ksbornu g ubzvibrkljggVagbrfugmvagxklugkl,gmragv frzuzagvl g.kzzkquza
mvnugrlizuvau grlglsf.uz,gvl gmragYvlaulraf,gqmrimgzuikfful u gmrfgbkgbmu
urxmbuulbmgiulbszt,gfvtglkbg.ugmragouvabgzuikfful vbrklgrlgbmu
lrlubuulbmjggMuzugqugmvnugiuzbvrlot,gklgbmugqmkou,gvgprzab-iovaagfvl,gvl 
klugwzkkpgkpgmragfvabuzotgxulrsagauufagbkg.u,gbmvbgmragfuzrbagvl gmra
.uvsbruagvzugaspprirulbgbkgrl siugsagbkgouvnugksbgkpgiklar uzvbrkl
.ouframuagvl gpvsobagqmrimgqkso gmvnug.uulgpvbvogbkgvlgrlpuzrkzgqzrbuzj





gggggggggggggggggggggggBMUgOUBBUZAgKPgFKLBVRXLUj


Rj

BkgFklaruszg ugFKLBVRXLU

[Bmragviikslbgkpgbmug uvbmgkpgOvg.kubrug.uxrlagrfwuzpuibotjggRbgprzab
vwwuvzu grlgvgorbbougnkosfugkpgFraiuoovlruagrlg1571jggAuugMvdorbb,gs.r
aswjggwjgg630j]--Vagbkgmragovabgqkz a,g ks.bouaa,grpgvltgfvlgivl
xrnugxkk gviikslbgkpgbmuf,grbgragR,g.kbmg.uivsau,g szrlxgbmugqmkougkpgmra
aricluaagmugiklnuzau gvagpsootgqrbmgfugvagqrbmgvltgklu,gvl gvoakg.uivsau,
rlgiklauesuliugkpgbmugarlxsovzgvl g.zkbmuzotgpzrul amrwgqmrimgqugmv 
ulbuzbvrlu gpkzguvimgkbmuz,gRgqvagwuzpuibotgviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmu
rlbulbrkla,gkwrlrkla,gvl gqramuagqmrimgmugmv gpkzfu grlgbmugikszaugkpgmra
orpu,gvagfsimgak,giuzbvrlot,gvagklugfvlgivlgwkaar.otg.ugqrbmgbmkaugkp
vlkbmuzgfvl;gvl g.uivsaugRgcluqgbmufgbkg.uguounvbu ,gnrzbsksa,gpsoogkp
abuv tgzuakosbrkl,gvl g(vpbuzgvoogavr )gv frzv.oujggRgquoogpkzuavqgbmvb,
rpgmragrooluaagwuzfrbbu gmrfgbkguhwzuaagmrfauop,gmugqkso gvookqglkbmrlx
bkgpvoogpzkfgmrf,grlgasimgvlguhbzufrbt,gbmvbgqvaglkbgzuwoubugqrbmgxkk 
uhvfwoujggRgiklauesulbotgbkkcgunuztgivzugrlgftgwkquzgbkgbzuvaszugqmvbgqva
avr jggBzsugrbgra,gFklaurxlusz,gvagftgfufkztgraglkbgklotgrlgrbauopgnuzt
amkzb,g.sbgrlgbmragivaugvppuibu g.tgbmugbzks.ougqmrimgRgmvnugsl uzxklu,
bmzksxmgakgmuvntgvl grfwkzbvlbgvgokaa,gbmvbgRgmvnugpkzxkbbulgvglsf.uzgkp
bmrlxagqmrimgRgamkso gqramgbkgmvnugmv gclkql;g.sbgbmkaugqmrimgRgzuikoouib
amvoog.ugzuovbu gbkgtksgvaguhvibotgvagoruagrlgftgwkquzjggPkzgbkgzuwzuaulb
rlgpsoogfuvaszugmraglk.ougivzuuzgas  ulotgvzzuabu ,gbkgwvrlbgbkgtksgmra
rl kfrbv.ougikszvxu,grlgvg.k tgqkzlgksbgvl gwzkabzvbu g.tgwvrlgvl gbmu
vaavsobagkpg uvbm,gRgiklpuaa,gqkso g ufvl gvgpvzg.ubbuzgv.rorbtgbmvl
frlu:g.uivsau,gvobmksxm,gqmulgrlgpkzfuzgtuvzagmug raikszau gklgauzrksa
vl grfwkzbvlbgfvbbuza,gmugmvl ou gbmufgrlgasimgvgfvlluzgbmvbgrbgqva
 rpprisobgbkgzuwzk siuguhvibotgqmvbgmugavr ,gtubgmragr uvagvl gmragqkz a
vbgbmugovabgauufu gbkgzrnvoguvimgkbmuzgrlgauznrlxgmrfjggPkzgRgvfgaszu
bmvbgRglunuzgcluqgmrfgxrnug.rzbmgbkgasimgprlugikliuwbrkla,gkzg rawovtgak
fsimguokesuliu,gvagrlgbmugbrfugkpgmragaricluaajggRp,gFklaurxlusz,gtks
.ovfugfugpkzgrlbzk sirlxgmragfkzugkz rlvztgk.auznvbrkla,gwouvaugbkgclkq
bmvbgRg kgakgv nrau ot;gpkzgarliugbmutgwzkiuu u gpzkfgmrfgvbgvgauvaklgkp
asimgxzuvbgbzks.ou,gbmutgrl rivbugbmugwuzpuibgbzvlesroorbtgkpgmragfrl 
vl gbmksxmbagbkgbmugovabj

KlgFkl vt,gbmug9bmg vtgkpgVsxsabg1563,gklgftgzubszlgpzkfgbmugIkszb,gR
aulbgvlgrlnrbvbrklgbkgmrfgbkgikfugvl g rlugqrbmgfujggMugzubszlu gqkz 
bmvbgmugqvagk.orxu ,g.sb,g.urlxgrl rawkau ,gmugqkso gbmvlcgfugbkg kgmrf
bmugwouvaszugkpgawul rlxgvlgmkszgqrbmgmrfg.upkzugmugabvzbu gpkzgFu kij
Amkzbotgvpbuzgftg rlluzgRgqulbgbkgmrfjggMugmv govr gmrfauopg kqlgklgbmu
.u gqrbmgmragiokbmuagkl,gvl gmugqvagvozuv t,gRgwuziurnu ,gfsimgimvlxu j
Mugikfwovrlu gkpg rvzzmkuv,gviikfwvlru g.tgbmugxzrwua,gvl gavr gbmvbgmu
mv grbgv.ksbgmrfgunuzgarliugmugwovtu gqrbmgFjg ’Uaivzagqrbmglkbmrlxg.sb
mrag ks.oubgkl,gvl gbmvbgqrbmgmrfgvgiko gkpbulg.zksxmbgklgasimgvbbvicaj
Rgv nrau gmrfgbkgxkgvagmugmv gwzkwkau ,g.sbgbkgabvtgpkzgbmuglrxmbgvb
Xuzfrxlvi,gqmrimgragklotgv.ksbgbqkgouvxsuagpzkfgbmugbkqljggRgxvnugmrf
bmragv nriu,g.uivsaugakfugmksaua,gluvzgbkgbmvbgqmuzugmugqvagwrlx,gquzu
nrarbu g.tgbmugwovxsu,gv.ksbgqmrimgmugqvagluznksagarliugmragzubszlgpzkf
Wuzrxkz gvl gbmugVxulkra,gmuzugrbgmv g.uulgzvxrlx;gvl ,g.uar ua,gmkzau
uhuziraugqva,gpzkfgftgkqlguhwuzruliu,g.uluprirvogsl uzgarfrovz
irzisfabvliuajggMugaubgksb,gviikz rlxot,gqrbmgmragqrpugvl gFj
.ksroomkllva,gmragsliouj

Uvzotgklgbmugpkookqrlxgfkzlrlx,gmkqunuz,gRgmv grlbuoorxuliugpzkfgFv vfu
 ugovg.kubru,gbmvbgrlgbmuglrxmbgmugmv gpzuamgvl gnrkoulbgvbbvicgkp
 taulbuztjggAmugmv givoou grlgwmtarirvlgvl gvwkbmuivzt,gvl gwzvtu gfugbk
okauglkgbrfugikfrlx,gqmrimg(vpbuzg rlluz)gRg r jggMugqvag uorxmbu gbkgauu
fu;gvl gqmulgRgqvagxkrlxgvqvt,gsl uzgwzkfraugbkgbszlgbmugpkookqrlxg vt,
mug.uxxu gfugfkzugrfwkzbslvbuotgvl gvppuibrklvbuotgbmvlgmugqvagqklbgbk
 k,gbkgxrnugmrfgvagasimgkpgftgikfwvltgvagwkaar.oujggRgqvagvgorbbou
vppuibu ;gtubgqvagv.ksbgbkgouvnu,gqmulgFv vfug ugovg.kubru,gvagrpgamu
pkzuavqgakfubmrlxgv.ksbgbkgmvwwul,grfwokzu gfugqrbmgbuvzagbkgabvtgbmu
lrxmbjggQmulgRgiklaulbu ,gmugauufu gbkgxzkqgfkzugimuuzpsojggRgzubszlu 
mkfugbmugluhbg vt,gvl gklgbmugBmsza vtgRgwvr gmrfgvlkbmuzgnrarbjggMugmv 
.uikfugqkzau;gvl gmragokaagkpg.okk gpzkfgbmug taulbuzt,gqmrimgzu siu gmra
abzulxbmgnuztgfsim,gqvagovzxuotgklgbmugrlizuvaujggRgesrbbu gmragar ugkl
Pzr vt,g.sbgklgAvbsz vtgRgqulbgbkgmrf,gvl gpksl gmrfgnuztgquvcjggMugbmul
xvnugfugbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgmragikfwovrlbgqvagrlpuibrksa,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,
 ravxzuuv.ougvl g uwzuaarlx;gvl gbmvbgmu,gclkqrlxgbmkzksxmotgft
iklabrbsbrkl,g uarzu gbmvbgRgamkso giklbulbgftauopgqrbmgikfrlxgbkgauugmrf
lkqgvl gbmuljggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,gvpbuzgbmvbgRglunuzgoupbgmragar uj

RbgqvagklotgklgbmugAsl vtgbmvbgmug.uxvlgbkgiklnuzaugqrbmgfugklgvlt
as.yuibg.utkl gbmugrffu rvbugklugkpgmragrooluaa,gvl gqmvbgbmugvlirulb
 kibkzagbmksxmbgkpgrb:gqugmv glkbgbksimu gklgws.origvppvrza,gpkzgRgpksl 
vbgbmugnuztgksbaubgbmvbgmugmv gvg raorcugbkgbmufj

.sb,gklgbmugAsl vt,gmugmv gvgpvrlbrlxgprb;gvl gqmulgmugivfugbkgmrfauop,
mugbko gfugbmvbgunuztbmrlxgauufu gbkgmrfgiklpsau ,gvagrpgrlgvgfrabgvl grl
 rakz uz,gvl gbmvb,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmragnrarbvbrklgqvaglkbgslwouvarlxgbk
mrfjgg“ uvbm,”gRgzuworu ,g“mvaglkgqkzaugaulavbrkl,gftg.zkbmuzj”gg“Lklugak
.v ,”gqvagmragvlaquzjggMugmv gmv glkgzuxsovzgaouuwgarliugbmug.uxrllrlxgkp
mragrooluaa;gvl gvagmug.uivfugqkzaugvl gqkzau,gmug.uxvlgbkgbszlgmra
vbbulbrklgbkgesuabrklagqmrimgfulgikffklotgkiiswtgbmufauonuagqrbmgrlgbmu
ovabguhbzufrbt,g uawvrzrlxglkqgkpgxubbrlxg.ubbuz,gvl grlbrfvbrlxgvagfsim
bkgfujggKlgbmvbg vt,gvagmugvwwuvzu grlgbkouzv.otgxkk gawrzrba,gRgbkkc
kiivarklgbkgavtgbkgmrfgbmvb,grlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugarlxsovzgoknugRg.kzu
mrf,grbgqkso g.uikfugfugbkgbvcugivzugbmvbgmragvppvrza,gqmrimgmugmv 
ikl sibu gqrbmgasimgzvzugwzs uliugrlgmragorpu,gamkso glkbg.ugluxouibu gvb
wzuaulb;gvl gbmvbgRgamkso gzuxzubgrbgrp,gpzkfgqvlbgkpgwzkwuzgikslauo,gmu
amkso gouvnugvltbmrlxgslaubbou ,glkbgklotgklgviikslbgkpgbmugokaagbkgmra
pvfrot,g.sbgvoakgbkgmragxkk glvfuj

Mugbmvlcu gfugpkzgftgcrl luaa;gvl gvpbuzgvgorbbougzupouibrkl,gvagrpgmu
qvagzuakonrlxgiuzbvrlg ks.bagrlgmragkqlgfrl ,gmug uarzu gfugbkgasffklgmra
sliougvl gmragqrpug.tgbmufauonua,grlgkz uzgbmvbgmugfrxmbgviesvrlbgbmuf
qrbmgmragbuabvfulbvztg rawkarbrklajggRgbko gmrfgbmvbgbmragqkso gamkic
bmufjgg“Lk,glk,”gmugvlaquzu ,g“Rgqroogimuuzgbmufg.tgfvcrlxgksbgftgivaugbk
.ug.ubbuzgbmvlgrbgraj”ggVl gbmulgmugrlesrzu ,gqmubmuzgqugquzuglkbgvoo
fsimgbvculg.tgaszwzraugvbgmragmvnrlxgpvrlbu ?ggRgzuworu ,gbmvbgrbgqvagkp
lkgrfwkzbvliu,g.urlxgrlir ulbvogbkgbmugikfwovrlbgpzkfgqmrimgmugasppuzu j
“Bzsu,gftg.zkbmuz,”gavr gmu;g“rbgqkso g.ugslrfwkzbvlb,gunulgbmksxmgrb
amkso gouv gbkgqmvbgtksgfkabg zuv j”gg“Pkzgtks,”gRgzuykrlu ,g“rbgfrxmbg.u
vgmvwwtgbmrlx;g.sbgRgamkso g.ugbmugokauz,gqmkgqkso gbmuzu.tg.ug uwzrnu 
kpgakgxzuvb,gakgqrau,gvl gakgabuv pvabgvgpzrul ,gvgpzrul gqmkaugwoviugR
amkso glunuzgauugaswworu j”gg“Rbgragnuztgorcuotgtksgfvtglkb,”gqvagmra
vlaquz;g“vl g.ugaszugbmvbgklugbmrlxgqmrimgfvcuagfugakfuqmvbgvlhrksagbk
zuiknuz,gvl gbkg uovtgftgykszlutgbkgbmvbgwoviu,gqmrbmuzgRgvfgvozuv t
mvop-qvtgxklu,gragbmugbmksxmbgkpgbmugokaag.kbmgtksgvl gbmvbgwkkzgfvlgvl 
qkfvlgbmuzug(zupuzzrlxgbkgmragsliougvl gqrpu)gfsabgasabvrl;gpkzgRgoknu
bmufgqrbmgftgqmkougmuvzb,gvl gRgpuuogiuzbvrlgbmvbgbmutgqroogprl grbgnuzt
mvz gbkgokaugfujggRgamkso gvoakgzuxzubgrbgklgviikslbgkpgasimgvagmvnu,grl
ftgorpubrfu,gnvosu gfu,gvl gqmkaugiklnuzavbrklgRgamkso gorcugbkgmvnu
ulyktu gvgorbbougoklxuz;gvl gRg.uauuimgtks,gftg.zkbmuz,grpgRgouvnugbmu
qkzo ,gbkgivzztgbkgbmufgpkzgfugvlgvaaszvliugkpgbmuguabuufgRgulbuzbvrlu 
pkzgbmufgbkgbmugovabgfkfulbgkpgftguhrabuliujggFtg.rzbmgqva,gfkzuknuz,
aivziuotgbkgakgorbbougwszwkaug.sbgbmvb,gmv gRgornu ,gRgfrxmbgmvnug klu
akfugauznriugbkgbmugws.ori;g.sb,gmkqunuzgbmragfvtg.u,gRgvfgwzuwvzu gbk
as.frbgbkgbmugqroogkpgXk ,gqmulgrbgamvoogwouvaugMrfgbkgivoogfu,g.urlx
iklpr ulbgkpgulyktrlxgbmugbzvlesroorbtgqmrimgtksgmvnugpkzubko gpkzgfuj
Vagpkzgtks,gftgpzrul ,gRgpuuogaszugbmvbgtksgvzugakgqrau,gbmvbgtksgqroo
iklbzkogtkszgufkbrkla,gvl gas.frbgbkgMrag rnrlugkz rlvliugzuxvz rlxgfu;
vl gRg.uxgkpgtksgbkgauugbmvbgbmvbgxkk gfvlgvl gqkfvlg kglkbgfkszlgpkzgft
 uwvzbszugslluiuaavzrotj”

Mugwzkiuu u gbkgrlesrzugmkqgbmutg.umvnu gvbgwzuaulbjgg“Nuztgquoo,”gavr 
R,g“iklar uzrlxgbmugirzisfabvliuaj”gg“Vm!”ggmugzuworu ,g“bmvbgra,gakgoklx
vagbmutg kglkbgv.vl klgvoogmkwugkpgfu;g.sbgqmulgbmvbgamvoog.ugbmugivau,
tksgqroogmvnugvgmvz gbvacgbkgaswwkzbgbmufj”ggRbgqvagkqrlxgbkgmragabzklx
zuxvz gpkzgmragqrpugvl gsliougbmvbgmugabs rksaotg raxsrau gpzkfgbmufgmra
kqlgiklnribrklgvagbkgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgmragul ,gvl gmugwzvtu gfugbkg kgbmu
avfujggQmulgbmutgquzugluvzgmrfgmugvaasfu gvlgvwwuvzvliugkpgxvrubt,gvl 
povbbuzu gbmufgqrbmgmkwuajggRgbmulgqulbgbkgivoogbmufjggBmutgivfu,gquvzrlx
vagikfwkau gvlgvrzgvagwkaar.ou;gvl gqmulgqugpkszgquzugbkxubmuz,gmu
v  zuaau gsa,gqrbmgvlgslbzks.ou gikslbulvliu,gvagpkookqa:g“Sliougvl 
qrpu,gzuabgvaaszu gbmvbglkgluqgvbbvicgkpgftg rauvau,gkzgpzuamg ks.bgbmvb
Rgmvnugvagbkgftgzuiknuzt,gmvagou gfugbkgbvcugbmragabuwgkpgikffslrivbrlx
bkgtksgftgrlbulbrkla,gpkz,gbmvlcgXk ,gRgpuuognuztgquoogvl gmkwupso;g.sb
bvsxmbg.tgk.auznvbrklgvl guhwuzruliugbmugrlabv.rorbtgkpgvoogmsfvlgbmrlxa,
vl gunulgkpgbmugorpugbkgqmrimgqugvzugakgfsimgvbbvimu ,gvl gqmrimgra,
lunuzbmuouaa,gvgfuzug.s..ou;gvl gclkqrlx,gfkzuknuz,gbmvbgftgabvbugkp
muvobmg.zrlxagfugfkzugqrbmrlgbmug vlxuzgkpg uvbm,gRgmvnugbmksxmbgwzkwuz
bkgaubbougftgqkzo otgvppvrza,gmvnrlxgbmug.uluprbgkpgtkszgv nriuj”ggBmul
v  zuaarlxgmrfauopgfkzugwvzbrisovzotgbkgmragsliou,g“Xkk gsliou,”gavr gmu,
“rpgRgquzugbkgzumuvzaugvoogbmugk.orxvbrklagsl uzgqmrimgRgorugbkgtks,gRgvf
aszugbmvbgRglunuzgamkso gfvcugvlgul jggOubgfugklotgavtgbmvb,gqmuzunuzgR
mvnug.uul,gvl gqrbmgqmkfakunuzgRgmvnugiklnuzau ,gRgmvnugzuwzuaulbu gtks
vag krlxgpkzgfugvoogbmvbgvgpvbmuzgikso g kgpkzgvgakl;g.kbmgrlgbmugivzu
qrbmgqmrimgtksgbul u gftgu sivbrkl,gvl grlgbmugduvogqrbmgqmrimgtksgwsamu 
fugpkzqvz grlbkgws.origorpu,gakgbmvbgftgqmkouguhrabuliugragvgbuabrfkltgkp
tkszgxkk gkppriuagbkqvz agfujggRlgamkzb,gRgvfgrl u.bu gpkzgvoogbmvbgR
mvnugbkgtks,gqmkgmvnug.uulgbkgfugvagvgwvzulb;gvl gbmuzupkzugRgmvnuglk
zrxmbgbkgwvzbgqrbmgvltbmrlx,gslouaagrbg.ugqrbmgtkszgvwwzknvoj”

Bmuzugqvagvgxuluzvogarouliugmuzuswkl,gvl gmragsliougqvagwzunulbu gpzkf
zuwotrlxg.tgbuvzagvl gak.ajggVbgovabgmugavr gbmvbgqmvbunuzgmugbmksxmbgpkz
bmug.uabgqkso g.ugvxzuuv.ougbkgmrf;gvl gvagmugrlbul u gbkgfvcugmrfgmra
murz,gmugqvagvbgor.uzbtgbkg rawkaugkpgqmvbgqkso g.ugmraj

Bmulgmugbszlu gbkgmragqrpujgg“Ftgrfvxu,”gavr gmug(pkzgakgmugkpbulgivoou 
muz,gbmuzug.urlxgakfugakzbgkpgzuovbrklamrwg.ubquulgbmuf),g“arliugRgmvnu
.uulgslrbu gbkgtksg.tgfvzzrvxu,gqmrimgragklugkpgbmugfkabgqurxmbtgvl 
avizu gbruagrfwkau gklgsag.tgXk ,gpkzgbmugwszwkaugkpgfvrlbvrlrlxgmsfvl
akirubt,gRgmvnugiklbrlsu gbkgoknu,gimuzram,gvl gnvosugtks;gvl gRgclkq
bmvbgtksgmvnugzubszlu gftgvppuibrkl,gpkzgqmrimgRgmvnuglkgaspprirulb
viclkqou xfulbjggRg.uxgtksgbkgviiuwbgasimgwkzbrklgkpgftguabvbugvagR
.uesuvbmgbkgtks,gvl g.ugavbrapru gqrbmgrb,gbmksxmgrbgragnuztgrlv uesvbu
bkgtkszg uauzbj”

Vpbuzqvz agmugbszlu gbkgfujgg“Ftg.zkbmuz,”gmug.uxvl,g“pkzgqmkfgRgmvnugak
ulbrzugvgoknu,gvl gqmkfgRgauouibu gksbgkpgakgovzxugvglsf.uz,gbmrlcrlxgbk
zunrnugqrbmgtksgbmvbgnrzbsksagvl garliuzugpzrul amrwgqmrim,gkqrlxgbkgbmu
 uxuluzvitgkpgbmugvxu,gmvagxzkqlgbkg.ugvofkabgslclkqlgbkgsa,gvl glkq
uhrabagklotgrlgiuzbvrlgnuabrxuagkpgvlbresrbt,gRg.uxgkpgtks,gvagvgfvzcgkp
ftgvppuibrklgbkgtks,gbkgviiuwbgftgor.zvzt:gvgaoul uzgkppuzrlx,g.sbgxrnul
qrbmgvgikz rvogqroo,gvl gasrbv.ougbkgtks,gauurlxgbmvbgtksgvzugpkl gkp
ouvzlrlxjggRbgqroog.ugvgfufkzrvogkpgtkszgko gikfwvlrklj”

Bmulgmugv  zuaau gvoogbmzuugkpgsajggMug.ouaau gXk gbmvbgrlgmraguhbzufrbt
mugmv gbmugmvwwrluaagbkg.ugaszzksl u g.tgbmkaugqmkfgmugmuo g uvzuabgrl
bmugqkzo ,gvl gmugokkcu gswklgrbgvagvgprlugawuibviou,gqmuzugpkszgwuzakla
quzugbkxubmuz,gakgslvlrfksagrlgbmurzgpuuorlxa,gvl goknrlxguvimgkbmuzgpkz
uvimgkbmuz’agavcujggMugikfful u gsagklugbkgbmugkbmuz;gvl gwzkiuu u gbmsa:
“Ftgqkzo otgfvbbuzag.urlxgvzzvlxu ,gRgfsabglkqgbmrlcgkpgbmugquopvzugkpgft
aksojggRgvfgvgImzrabrvl;gRgvfgvgIvbmkorijggRgmvnugornu gklu,gvl gRgamvoo
 rugklujggAul gpkzgvgwzruab;gpkzgRgqramgbkgiklpkzfgbkgbmragovabgImzrabrvl
k.orxvbrklj”ggMuglkqgiklios u gmrag raikszau,gqmrimgmugmv gikl sibu gqrbm
asimgvgprzfgpviugvl gqrbmgakg rabrlibgvlgsbbuzvliu,gbmvbgqmuzuva,gqmulgR
przabgulbuzu gmragzkkf,gmugqvagpuu.ou,grlvzbrisovbugrlgmragawuuim,gmra
wsoaugokqgvl gpunuzram,gvl gmragpuvbszuagwvoor ,glkq,g.tgvgakzbgkp
frzviou,gmugvwwuvzu gbkgmvnugzvooru ,gvl gmragwsoaugqvagakgabzklxgbmvb
pkzgbmugavcugkpgikfwvzrakl,gRgvacu gmrfgbkgpuuogfrluj

Rgpuobgftgmuvzbgakgkwwzuaau gvbgbmragfkfulb,gbmvbgRgmv glkbgbmugwkquzgbk
fvcugmrfgvltgvlaquz;g.sbgrlgbmugikszaugkpgbqkgkzgbmzuugmksza,gakorirbksa
bkgcuuwgswgmragikszvxu,gvl ,gorcuqrau,gksbgkpgbmugbul uzluaagqmrimgRgmv 
mv gvoogftgorpugpkzgmragmklkszgvl gpvfu,gqramrlxgvgovzxuzglsf.uzgkp
qrbluaauagbkgmragv frzv.ougpkzbrbs u,gRgavr gbkgmrf,gmkqgfsimgRgqva
vamvfu gbkgbmrlcgbmvbgRgovicu gikszvxugbkgorabulgbkgqmvbgmu,gakgxzuvbgv
asppuzuz,gmv gbmugikszvxugbkg uornuz;gbmvbg kqlgbkgbmugwzuaulbgbrfugRgmv 
aivziuotgikliurnu gbmvbgXk gxzvlbu gsagasimgikffvl gknuzgmsfvl
rlprzfrbrua,gvl gmv gpksl gvg rpprisobtgrlgizu rbrlxgbmuguhvfwouagRgmv 
zuv grlgmrabkzrua;g.sbgbmvbgqrbmgasimgunr uliugkpgbmugbmrlxg.upkzugft
utua,gRgxvnugwzvraugbkgXk gbmvbgrbgmv gamkqlgrbauopgrlgklugakguhiuaarnuot
 uvzgbkgfu,gvl gqmkgoknu gfugakgulbrzuot,gvl gbmvbgmraguhvfwougqkso gmuow
fugbkgvibgrlgvgarfrovzgfvlluzgqmulgftgbszlgivfujggRlbuzzswbrlxgfu,gmu
.uxxu gbmvbgrbgfrxmbgmvwwulgak,gvl gbmvbgbmugiklnuzavbrklgqmrimgmv 
wvaau g.ubquulgsagfrxmbglkbg.ugfuzugqkz a,g.sbgfrxmbg.ugrfwzuaau g uuwot
klgkszgfrl a,gbkg.ugwsbgrlguhuziraugvbgbmugprzabgkiivarkl;gvl gbmvbgbmra
qvagbmugzuvogk.yuibgvl gvrfgkpgvoogwmrokakwmtj

Mugbmulgbkkcgftgmvl ,gvl giklbrlsu :g“.zkbmuz,gpzrul ,gbmuzugvzugfvlt
vibagkpgftgorpu,gRgbmrlc,gqmrimgmvnugikabgfugvagfsimg rpprisobtgvagbmra
klugragorcuotgbkg k;gvl ,gvpbuzgvoo,gRgmvnug.uulgoklxgwzuwvzu gpkzgrb,
vl gmvnugftgouaaklg.tgmuvzbjggMvnugRglkbgornu goklxgulksxm?ggRgvfgysab
swklgbmrzbt-bmzuujgg.tgbmugxzviugkpgXk ,gftg vtagakgpvzgmvnugclkql
lkbmrlxg.sbgmuvobmgvl gmvwwrluaa;g.sbgrlgbmugkz rlvztgikszaugkpgksz
slabv.ougmsfvlgvppvrza,gbmragikso glkbgmvnugovabu gfsimgoklxuz;grbgqkso 
mvnug.uikfugbrfugpkzgfugbkgulbuzgklgxzvnuzgvnkivbrkla,gvl gRgamkso gbmsa
mvnugrlnkonu gftauopgrlglsf.uzouaagnuhvbrkla,gvl ,gvfklxgbmuf,gbmu
bzks.ouagkpgko gvxu,gpzkfgqmrimgRgamvooglkqg.uguhufwbjggFkzuknuz,grbgra
wzk.v.ougbmvbgmrbmuzbkgftgorpugmvag.uulgawulbgfkzugarfwot,gvl gqrbmgouaa
kpgunro,gbmvlgrpgXk gmv gawvzu gfu,gvl gRgmv gasznrnu gbkgpuuogbmu
bmrzabgpkzgzrimuagvl gqkzo otgwzkawuzrbtjggRgvfgaszu,gpkzgftgwvzb,gbmvb
RglkqgxkgbkgXk gvl gbmugwoviugkpgbmug.ouaau j”ggMugauufu gbkg ubuibgrl
ftguhwzuaarklgakfugrlesrubs ugvbgmragqkz a;gvl gmuguhiovrfu ,g“Qmvb,gft
.zkbmuz,gqkso gtksgfvcugfugulbuzbvrlgvwwzumularkla?ggMv gRgvlt,gqmkf
qkso grbg.uikfugakgfsimgvagtkszauopgbkgzufknugbmuf?”

Bmuglkbvzt,gqmkgmv g.uulgasffklu gbkg zvqgswgmragqroo,givfugrlgbmu
unulrlx,gvl gqmulgmugmv gbmug kisfulbagwzuwvzu ,gRgrlesrzu gkpgOvg.kubru
rpgmugqkso garxlgbmufjgg“Arxlgbmuf,”gizru gmu;g“Rgqroog kgakgqrbmgftgkql
mvl ;g.sbgRgikso g uarzugfkzugbrfu,gpkzgRgpuuoguhiuu rlxotgbrfr gvl 
quvc,gvl grlgvgfvlluzguhmvsabu j”gg.sbgqmulgRgqvagxkrlxgbkgimvlxugbmu
iklnuzavbrkl,gmugas  ulotgzvooru ,gavr gmugmv g.sbgvgamkzbgbrfugbkgornu,
vl gvacu grpgbmuglkbvztgqzkbugzvwr ot,gpkzgmugamkso g ribvbugqrbmksb
fvcrlxgvltgwvsaujggBmuglkbvztgqvagivoou ,gvl gmug ribvbu gmragqroogbmuzu
vl gbmulgqrbmgasimgawuu gbmvbgbmugfvlgikso gaivziuotgcuuwgswgqrbmgmrf;
vl gqmulgmugmv g klu,gmugvacu gfugbkgzuv grbgksb,gavtrlxgbkgfu,g“Qmvbgv
xkk gbmrlxgrbgragbkgokkcgvpbuzgqmvbgvzugivoou gkszgzrimuaj”gg‘Aslbgmvui,
eskugmkfrlr.sagnkivlbszg.klv’jggVagakklgvagbmugqroogqvagarxlu ,gbmu
imvf.uzg.urlxgpsoo,gmugvacu gfugrpgrbgqkso gmszbgmrfgbkgbvocjggR
vlaquzu ,gbmvbgrbgqkso glkb,grpgmug r glkbgawuvcgbkkgoks jggMugbmul
asffklu gFv ufkrauooug ugAvrlbgEsulbrl,gmraglruiu,gbkgmrf,gvl gv  zuaau 
muzgbmsa:g“ uvzglruiu,garliugftguvzoruabgviesvrlbvliugqrbmgbmuu,gRgmvnu
k.auznu gbmugfvzcagkp,gxzuvbglvbszvogxkk luaagrlgbmuu;g.sbgbmugauznriua
qmrimgbmksgzul uzu gbkgfu,gqrbmgakgfsimgvppuibrklvbug rorxuliu,grlgft
wzuaulbgvl govabgluiuaarbt,grlawrzugfugqrbmgmrxmgmkwuagkpgbmuu;gvl gRgvf
sl uzgxzuvbgk.orxvbrklagbkgbmuu,gvl gxrnugbmuugfkabgvppuibrklvbugbmvlcaj
Oubgfugzuorunugftgiklairuliug.tgikslauoorlxgbmuugbkg.u,grlgbmugprzab
woviu,g unksb,gbkgXk :gpkzgbmrag ks.bouaagragkszgprzabg sbt,gpvrorlx
qmrimgvoogkbmuzagivlg.ugkpgorbbougv nvlbvxugkzgxzviu,g.sbgqmrim,g sot
k.auznu ,givzzruagqrbmgrbgluiuaavzrotgvoogkbmuzgnrzbsuajggVpbuzgXk ,gbmks
amkso uabgoknugbmtgpvbmuzgvl gfkbmuz--bmtgfkbmuz,gftgarabuz,gqmkfgR
zuxvz gvagklugkpgbmug.uabgvl gfkabgrlbuoorxulbgkpgqkful,gvl g.tgqmkfgR
.uxgkpgbmuugbkgoubgbmtgkqlgorpug.ugzuxsovbu jggVookqglkbgbmtauopgbkg.u
ou gvqvtg.tgwouvaszua;gamsl,gorcugbmugwovxsu,gbmugpkkoramgpvfrorvzrbrua
bmksgauuabg.ubquulgakfugfulgvl gqkful;gmvzfouaagulksxmgvbgprzab,g.sb
qmrimg.tgrlar rksag uxzuuagikzzswbgbmugmuvzb,gvl gbmuliugouv grbgbk
luxorxuliu,gvl gbmulgrlbkgbmugnrougaoksxmgkpgnriujggIzu rbgfu,gbmu
xzuvbuabgavpuxsvz gbkgpufvougimvabrbtgragak.zrubtgkpg ufuvlkszjggR
.uauuimgvl g rzuibgbmvbgbmksgkpbulgivoogbkgfrl gbmugpzrul amrwgqmrimgqva
.ubqrhbgsa;g.sbgRg kglkbgqramgbmuugbkgfkszlgpkzgfugbkkgfsim--vl
rlyslibrklgqmrim,gakgpvzgvagrbgragrlgftgwkquz,gRgovtgklgvoogftgpzrul a,
arliugrbgfrxmbgauufgbmvbg.tg krlxgakgbmutgpuobgvgyuvoksatgkpgbmvbg.ouaau 
ikl rbrklgrlgqmrimgRgvfgv.ksbgbkg.ugwoviu g.tg uvbmjggRgvaaszugbmuu,gft
 uvz,gbmvbgrpgRgmv gbmugkwbrklglkqgkpgiklbrlsrlxgrlgorpugkzgkpgikfwoubrlx
bmugnktvxugklgqmrimgRgmvnugaubgksb,gRgamkso gprl grbgnuztgmvz gbkgimkkauj
V rus,g uvzglruiuj”

Fv ufkrauooug ’Vzavb,gmragabuw vsxmbuz,gqvagluhbgivoou jggMugavr gbkgmuz:
“ vsxmbuz,gtksgabvl grlglkgxzuvbgluu gkpgv nriugpzkfgfu,grlakfsimgvagtks
mvnugvgfkbmuz,gqmkfgRgmvnugunuzgpksl gfkabgavxvirksa,gvl gulbrzuotgrl
iklpkzfrbtgqrbmgftgkqlgkwrlrklagvl gqramua,gvl gqmkfgRgmvnuglunuzgpksl 
pvsobt;gqrbmgasimgvgwzuiuwbzuaa,gtksgivllkbgpvrogbkg.ugwzkwuzot
rlabzsibu jgg kglkbgviikslbgrbgarlxsovzgbmvbgR,gqrbmglkgbrugkpg.okk gbk
tks,gvfgrlbuzuabu grlgtks;gpkz,g.urlxgbmugimro gkpgklugqmkgragakgiokauot
vooru gbkgfu,gRgvfgluiuaavzrotgikliuzlu grlgqmvbgikliuzlagtks;gvl 
iklauesulbotgbmugvppvrzagkpgtkszg.zkbmuz,gFjg ’Vzavb,gmvnugunuzg.uul
qvbimu g.tgfugqrbmgvagfsimgivzugvagftgkql;glkzgwuzmvwagqroogrbg.ugbkgtksz
 rav nvlbvxugbmvbgtksgquzugftgabuw- vsxmbuzjggTksgulyktgaspprirulbgabkzu
kpgquvobmgvl g.uvsbt;gtksgvzugvgov tgkpgxkk gpvfrot;grbgklotgzufvrlagpkz
tksgbkgv  gbkgbmuaugwkaauaarklagbmugisobrnvbrklgkpgtkszgfrl ,grlgqmrimgR
uhmkzbgtksglkbgbkgpvrojggRg kglkbgbmrlcgluiuaavztgbkgqvzlgtksgvxvrlab
nriu,gvgbmrlxgakgk rksagrlgqkful,gpkzgRgqkso glkbgunulgaswwkaugbmvbgtks
ikso gmvz.kszgvltgrliorlvbrklgpkzgrb--lvt,gRg.uorunugbmvbgtksgmko gbmu
nuztglvfugrlgv.mkzzuliujgg uvzg vsxmbuz,gpvzuquooj”

Voogrlgbmugzkkfgquzugquuwrlxgvl govfulbrlx;g.sbgmugmuo gqrbmksb
rlbuzzswbrklgbmugbmzuv gkpgmrag raikszau,gqmrimgqvagwzubbtgoklxjgg.sb
qmulgmugmv g klu,gmug rzuibu gsagvoogbkgouvnugbmugzkkf,guhiuwbgbmugqkful
vbbul vlba,gqmkfgmugabtou gmragxvzzrakljgg.sbgprzab,givoorlxgbkgmrfgft
.zkbmuz,gFjg ug.uvszuxvz ,gmugavr gbkgmrf:g“Fjg ug.uvszuxvz ,gtksgmvnu
ftg.uabgbmvlcagpkzgvoogbmugivzugtksgmvnugbvculgkpgfujggRgmvnuglkqgvgbmrlx
qmrimgRgvfgnuztgvlhrksagrl uu gbkgfulbrklgbkgtks,gvl gqrbmgtksz
wuzfraarklgRgqroog kgakj”ggVagftg.zkbmuzgxvnugmrfgulikszvxufulbgbk
wzkiuu ,gmugv  u :g“RgvaaszugtksgbmvbgRglunuzgcluqgvltgfvlgqmkgulxvxu grl
bmugzupkzfvbrklgkpgkszgImszimgqrbmgxzuvbuzgarliuzrbt,guvzluabluaa,gvl 
arlxou-muvzbu luaagbmvlgtkszauopjggRgiklar uzgbmvbgtksgquzugou gbkgrbg.t
k.auznrlxgbmugnrirksagimvzvibuzgkpgkszgwzuovbua,gqmrimglkg ks.bgfsim
zuesrzuagaubbrlxgrlgkz uz,gvl g.tgrfwuzpuibrklagqmrimgbrfugmvag.zksxmb
rlbkgkszgImszimjggRbgraglkbgftg uarzugvbgwzuaulbgg raikszvxugtksgpzkf
bmragikszau,gpkzgRgqkso gmvnuglkgklugvibgrlgkwwkarbrklgbkgmragiklairuliu;
.sbgRgqram,gmvnrlxgzuxvz gbkgbmugxkk gzuwsbugviesrzu g.tgtkszgpvfrotgpzkf
rbagul szrlxgiklikz --vgpvfrotgbmvlgqmrimglklugivlg.ug uvzuzgbkgfu;gv
pvfrot,gbmvlcgXk !gglkgfuf.uzgkpgqmrimgmvagunuzg.uulgxsrobtgkpg ramklksz
--rlgzuxvz ,gpszbmuz,gbkgbmugqroogkpgtkszgxkk gpvbmuzgbkgqmkfgtksgkqugak
fsim,gvl gkpgtksz,gsliou,gRgqramgtksgbkgvnkr guhbzufugfuvla;gvnkr 
mvzamluaagvl gnrkouliu:g.ugzuiklirou gqrbmgtkszgzuovbrnua;g kglkbgvib
vwvzb,g.sbgslrbujggTksgwuziurnugqmvbg ravabuzagkszgesvzzuoagmvnug.zksxmb
swklgbmragcrlx kf,gvl gRgvlbrirwvbugabroogqkzaugfraimrupa;gvl grlgtksz
xkk luaagvl gqra kf,g.uqvzugkpgrlnkonrlxgtkszgpvfrotgrlgasimg.zkroa;goub
rbgiklbrlsugbkgulyktgrbagpkzfuzgzuwsbvbrklgvl gmvwwrluaajggFjg u
.uvszuxvz ,gbvcugqmvbgRgavtgrlgxkk gwvzb,gvl gvagvgwzkkpgkpgbmu
pzrul amrwgRgpuuogpkzgtksjggRgwkabwklu gbrooglkqgvltgikffslrivbrklgqrbm
tksgklgbmugas.yuib,gvl gwuzmvwagbmugikl rbrklgrlgqmrimgtksgauugfugv  zuaa
tks,gfvtgivsaugftgv nriugvl gkwrlrklgbkgivzztgxzuvbuzgvsbmkzrbtj”ggFt
.zkbmuzguhwzuaau gmragbmvlcagbkgmrfgikz rvootj

KlgbmugFkl vtgfkzlrlxgmugmv g.uikfugakgroogbmvbgmugesrbug uawvrzu gkp
mrfauop;gvl gmugavr gbkgfugnuztgwrbrpsoot:g“.zkbmuz,g kglkbgtksgpuuogwvrl
pkzgvoogbmugwvrlgRgvfgasppuzrlx?gg kgtksglkbgwuziurnuglkqgbmvbgbmugmuow
tksgxrnugfugmvaglkgkbmuzguppuibgbmvlgbmvbgkpgoulxbmulrlxgftgasppuzrlx?”

Amkzbotgvpbuzqvz agmugpvrlbu ,gvl gqugvoogbmksxmbgmrfgxklu;g.sbg.tgbmu
vwworivbrklgkpgnrluxvzgvl gqrlugmugzvooru jgg.sbgmugakklgavlc,gvl gqmul
mugmuvz gsagrlgovfulbvbrkl,gmugfszfszu ,g“KgXk !ggqmkgragrbgbmvbgbuvaua
fugak?ggQmtg r gtksg.zuvcgbmugvxzuuv.ougzuwkaugRgqvagulyktrlx?ggRg.uxgkp
tksgbkgouvnugfuj”ggVl gbmul,gqmulgmugivsxmbgbmugaksl gkpgftgnkriu,gmu
iklbrlsu :g“Vl gvzbgbmks,gftg.zkbmuz,gorcuqraugslqroorlxgbkgauugfugvb
wuviu?ggK,gmkqgbmksgzk..uabgfugkpgftgzuwkau!”ggVpbuzgvgqmrou,gmugauufu 
bkgxvrlgfkzugabzulxbm,gvl givoou gpkzgqrlu,gqmrimgmugzuoramu ,gvl 
 uiovzu grbgbkg.ugbmugprluabg zrlcgwkaar.oujggR,grlgkz uzgbkgimvlxugbmu
iszzulbgkpgmragbmksxmba,gwsbgrl,g“Aszuotglkb;gqvbuzgragbmug.uabj”gg“Vm,
tua,”gmugzubszlu ,g“ ks.bouaagak;--(Xzuucgwmzvau)--j”ggMugmv glkqg.uikfu,
rit-iko gvbgmraguhbzufrbrua,gunulgbkgmragpviu;gvg uvbmotgwuzawrzvbrklgqva
swklgmrf,gvl gmragwsoaugqvagaivziuotgwuziuwbr.ouj

Bmragfkzlrlxgmugiklpuaau ,g.sbgbmugwzruabgmv gkfrbbu gbkg.zrlxgqrbmgmrf
bmugluiuaavztgvwwvzvbsagpkzgiuou.zvbrlxgFvaajggKlgbmugBsua vt,gmkqunuz,
Fjg ugovg.kubrugasffklu gmrfgbkgvr gmrf,gvagmugavr ,grlg raimvzxrlxgbmu
ovabgkppriugkpgvgImzrabrvljgggVpbuzgbmugikliosarklgkpgFvaa,gmugbkkcgbmu
avizvfulb;gqmulgbmugwzruabgqvagv.ksbgbkg uwvzb,gmugavr gbkgmrf:
“Awrzrbsvogpvbmuz,gRgrfwokzugtksgmsf.ot,gvagquoogvagbmkaugknuzgqmkfgtks
vzugaub,gbkgwzvtgbkgbmugVofrxmbtgklgftg.umvop;gbmvb,grpgrbg.ug uizuu grl
muvnulgbmvbgRgvfglkqgbkgul gftgorpu,gMugqroogbvcugikfwvaarklgklgftgakso,
vl gwvz klgfugftgarla,gqmrimgvzugfvlrpko ,grbglkbg.urlxgwkaar.ougpkzgak
quvcgvl gwkkzgvgizuvbszugvagRgbkgk.utgikfwoubuotgbmugqroogkpgasimgv
Fvabuz;gkz,grpgMugbmrlcgprbgbkgcuuwgfugoklxuzgmuzu,gbmvbgrbgfvtgwouvau
Mrfgbkgzuouvaugftgwzuaulbguhbzufugvlxsram,gvl gbkg rzuibgftgpkkbabuwagrl
bmugzrxmbgwvbm,gbmvbgRgfvtg.uikfugvg.ubbuzgfvlgbmvlgRgmvnug.uulj”ggMu
wvsau gbkgzuiknuzg.zuvbmgvgorbbou;gwzruabgqvagv.ksbgbkgxkgvqvt,gmugivoou 
mrfg.vicgvl gwzkiuu u :g“Rg uarzugbkgavt,g.uar ua,grlgtkszgmuvzrlxgbmra:
Rg uiovzugbmvbgRgqvagimzrabulu gvl gRgmvnugornu ,gvl gbmvbgakgRgqramgbk
 ru,grlgbmugpvrbmgqmrimgFkauagwzuvimu grlgUxtwb;gqmrimgvpbuzqvz agbmu
Wvbzrvzimagviiuwbu gvl gwzkpuaau grlgYs vuv;gvl gqmrim,grlgbmugikszaugkp
brfu,gmvag.uulgbzvlafrbbu gbkgPzvliugvl gbkgsaj”ggMugauufu g uarzksagkp
v  rlxgakfubmrlxgfkzu,g.sbgmugul u gqrbmgvgzuesuabgbkgmragsliougvl gfugbk
aul gswgwzvtuzagpkzgmrf;g“pkzgbmkaugvzu,”gmugavr ,g“bmug.uabg sbruagbmvb
Imzrabrvlagivlgpsoprogklugpkzgvlkbmuzj”ggRlgbmugikszaugkpgbvocrlx,gmra
amkso uzgqvagsliknuzu ,gvl gvobmksxmgvgfvl-auznvlbgabkk gluvzgmrf,gmu
vacu gmragsliougbkgzu-v ysabgbmugiokbmuajggBmul,gbszlrlxgmragutuagbkqvz a
fu,gmugavr ,g“Rlxulsrguab,gisrgfsobsfg u.uva,gurgwoszrfsfgnuooug u.uzuj”

Fjg ug.uokbgivoou grlgbmugvpbuzlkklgbkgauugmrf,gvl gFjg ugovg.kubru,
bvcrlxgmragmvl ,gavr gbkgmrf:g“Rgqvagklgbmugwkrlbgkpg raimvzxrlxgftg u.b,
.sbgftgcrl gizu rbkzgmvagxrnulgfugvgorbbougpszbmuzgbrfuj”ggVgorbbougqmrou
vpbuz,gvwwuvzrlxgbkgqvcugksbgkpgvgakzbgkpgzunuzru,gmugsbbuzu gqkz agqmrim
mugmv gufwoktu gkliugkzgbqriug.upkzugrlgbmugikszaugkpgmragaricluaa:
“Vmgquoo,gvmgquoo,gqmulunuzgbmugmkszgikfua,gRgvqvrbgrbgqrbmgwouvaszugvl 
pkzbrbs uj”ggVl gbmul,gvagbmutgquzugmko rlxgmragfksbmgkwulg.tgpkziugbk
xrnugmrfgvg zvsxmb,gmugk.auznu gbkgFjg ug.uokb:g“Vlgnrnuzugbvlbrguab?”

Vagbmugunulrlxgvwwzkvimu ,gmug.uxvlgwuziuwbr.otgbkgarlc;gvl gqmrougR
aswwu ,gmugaulbgpkzgfugbkgikfu,g.urlxglkgfkzugbmvlgbmugamv kqgkpgvgfvl,
kz,gvagmugwsbgrbgmrfauop,g‘lklgmkfk,gau gawuiruagmkfrlra’;gvl gmugavr gbk
fugqrbmgbmugsbfkabg rpprisobt:g“Ftg.zkbmuz,gftgpzrul ,gwouvaugXk gRgfvt
zuvoraugbmugrfvxrlvbrklagRgmvnugysabgulyktu j”ggVpbuzqvz a,gmvnrlxgqvrbu 
pkzgakfugbrfugqmrougmugzufvrlu garoulb,gvl g.tgwvrlpsoguppkzbagqva
 zvqrlxgoklxgarxmag(pkzgmragbklxsugvbgbmragwkrlbg.uxvlgbkgzupsaugrba
pslibrkla),gRgavr ,g“Qmvbgvzugbmut?”gg“Xzvl ,gxzvl !”ggmugzuworu jgg“R
mvnuglunuzgtubgpvrou ,”gzubszlu gR,g“bkgmvnugbmugmklkszgkpgmuvzrlxgtksz
ikliuwbrklagvl grfvxrlvbrklagikffslrivbu gbkgfu;gqroogtksglkbglkqgabroo
oubgfugulyktgbmuf?”gg“Rgqkso grl uu ,”gmugvlaquzu ;g“.sb,gftg.zkbmuz,
Rgvfglkbgv.ougbkg kgak;gbmutgvzugv frzv.ou,grlprlrbu,gvl gslawuvcv.ouj”
gQugabkwwu gamkzbgbmuzu,gpkzgmugikso glkbgxkgkljggVgorbboug.upkzu,grl uu ,
mugmv gamkqlgvg uarzugbkgawuvcgbkgmragqrpu,gvl gmv gbko gmuz,gqrbmgvagxvt
vgikslbulvliugvagmugikso giklbzrnugbkgvaasfu,gbmvbgmugmv gvgabkztgbkgbuoo
muzjggVl grbgauufu gvagrpgmugqvagfvcrlxgvlgvbbufwbgbkgxvrlgsbbuzvliu;
.sb,gmragabzulxbmgpvrorlxgmrf,gmug.uxxu gvgorbbougqrlugbkgzuasairbvbugrbj
Rbgqvagkpglkgvnvro,gpkzgmugpvrlbu gvqvtgas  ulot,gvl gqvagpkzgakfugbrfu
rlaular.oujggMvnrlxg.uikfugakgluvzgvglurxm.kszgbkg uvbm,gvl gmuvzrlxgbmu
ak.agkpgFv ufkrauooug ugovg.kubru,gmugivoou gmuz,gvl gavr gbkgmuzgbmsa:
“Ftgkqlgorculuaa,gtksgxzrunugtkszauopg.upkzumvl ;gqroogtksglkbgmvnugwrbt
klgfu?ggbvcugikszvxujggVaaszu ot,grbgikabagfugfkzugbmvlgmvopgbmugwvrlgR
ul szu,gbkgauugtksgasppuz;gvl gzuvaklv.otgak,g.uivsaugbmugunroagqmrimgqu
kszauonuagpuuogqug kglkbgvibsvootgkszauonuagasppuz,g.sbgrbgiuzbvrl
aulbrulbgpvisobruagqmrimgXk gwovlbagrlgsa,gbmvbgpuuogbmuf:gqmuzuvagqmvb
qugpuuogklgviikslbgkpgkbmuza,gqugpuuog.tgiklauesuliugkpgvgiuzbvrl
zuvaklrlxgwzkiuaagqmrimgxkuagklgqrbmrlgkszgfrl ajgg.sbgRgvfgxkrlxgvqvt”
g--Bmvbgmugavr g.uivsaugmragabzulxbmgqvagpvrorlxgmrf;gvl gpuvzrlxgbmvbgmu
mv gpzrxmbulu gmragqrpu,gmugzuasfu ,gk.auznrlx:g“Rgvfgxkrlxgbkgaouuwj
Xkk glrxmb,gftgqrpu;gxkgbmtgqvtj”ggBmragqvagbmugovabgpvzuquoogmugbkkcgkp
muzj

Vpbuzgamugmv goupb,g“Ftg.zkbmuz,”gavr gmugbkgfu,g“cuuwgluvzgfu,grpgtks
wouvau;”gvl gbmulgpuuorlxgbmugv nvliugkpg uvbmgfkzugwzuaarlxgvl gfkzu
visbu,gkzguoaugbmuguppuibgkpgakfugqvzfg zvsxmbgqmrimgbmutgmv gfv ugmrf
aqvookq,gmragnkriugxzuqgabzklxuzgvl giouvzuz,gvl gmugbszlu gesrbugqrbm
nrkouliugrlgmrag.u ,gakgbmvbgvoog.uxvlgvxvrlgbkgulbuzbvrlgbmugmkwugqmrim
qugmv gokabgklotgswklgqrbluaarlxgmraguhbzufugwzkabzvbrklj

Vbgbmragabvxugmugwzkiuu u ,gvfklxgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbkgwzvtgfugvxvrlgvl 
vxvrl,grlgvgfkabgvppuibrklvbugfvlluz,gbkgxrnugmrfgvgwoviu;gakgbmvbgRgqva
vwwzumularnugbmvbgmragzuvaklgfrxmbg.ugrfwvrzu ,gwvzbrisovzotgqmul,gklgft
wkrlbrlxgksbgbkgmrfgbmvbgmugqvag krlxgmrfauopgmvzf,gvl gbmvbgbmuaugquzu
lkbgkpgbmugqkz agkpgvgzvbrklvogfvl,gmug r glkbgtruo gvbgprzab,g.sb
zu ks.ou gmragksbizt,gavtrlx,g“Ftg.zkbmuz,gftg.zkbmuz!gg kabgbmksgbmul
zupsaugfugvgwoviu?”ggrlakfsimgbmvbgmugiklabzvrlu gfugbkg ufklabzvbugbk
mrfgbmvb,gvagmug.zuvbmu gvl gawkcu,gvl gmv gmragwmtarivog.urlx,gbmuzupkzu
mugmv gmragwoviujgg“Tua,gtua,”gmugzuawkl u ,g“Rgmvnu;g.sbgrbgraglkbgbmvb
qmrimgRgluu ;gvl ,g.uar ua,gqmulgvoogragavr ,gRgmvnuglkgoklxuzgvlt
uhrabuliuj”gg“Xk ,”gRgzuworu ,g“qroogxzvlbgtksgvg.ubbuzgklugakklj”
g“Qkso grbgquzuglkq,gftg.zkbmuz,”gqvagmragvlaquzjgg“Rbgraglkqgbmzuug vta
arliugRgmvnug.uulguvxuzgbkgbvcugftg uwvzbszuj”

.urlxgrlgbmraguhbzufrbt,gmugpzuesulbotgivoou gfu,gfuzuotgbkgavbraptgmrf
bmvbgRgqvagvbgmragar ujggVbgoulxbm,gmugikfwkau gmrfauopgvgorbbougbkgzuab,
qmrimgabzulxbmulu gkszgmkwua;gakgfsimgak,grl uu ,gbmvbgRgoupbgbmugzkkf,
vl gqulbgbkgzuykriugbmuzuswklgqrbmgFv ufkrauooug ugovg.kubrujgg.sb,gvl
mkszgkzgakgvpbuzqvz a,gmugivoou gfug.tglvfugkliugkzgbqriu,gvl gbmulgqrbm
vgoklxgarxmguhwrzu gvbgbmzuugk’iokicgklgQu lua vtgfkzlrlx,gbmug18bm
Vsxsabg1563,gmvnrlxgornu gbmrzbt-bqkgtuvza,glrlugfklbma,gvl gaunulbuul
 vtaj




RRj

BkgFklaurxlusz,gFklaurxluszg ugFKLBVRXLUj

[Bmragoubbuzgragwzuprhu gbkgFklbvrxlu’agbzvlaovbrklgkpgbmug“Lvbszvo
Bmukokxt”gkpgZvtfkl g ugAu.kl u,gwzrlbu gvbgWvzragrlg1569j]

Rlgwszasvliugkpgbmugrlabzsibrklagqmrimgtksgxvnugfugovabgtuvzgrlgtksz
mksaugvbgFklbvrxlu,gFklaurxlusz,gRgmvnugwsbgrlbkgvgPzulimg zuaa,gqrbmgft
kqlgmvl ,gZvtfkl g ugAu.kl u,gbmvbgxzuvbgAwvlramgbmukokxrvlgvl 
wmrokakwmuz;gvl gRgmvnug rnuabu gmrf,gakgpvzgvagRgikso ,gkpgbmvbgzksxm
.uvzrlxgvl g.vz.vzrigvwwuvzvliugqmrimgtksgavqgmrfgquvzgvbgprzab;gbmvb,grl
ftgkwrlrkl,gmugraglkqgesvorpru gbkgwzuaulbgmrfauopgrlgbmug.uabgikfwvltj
Rbgragwuzpuibotgwkaar.ougbmvbgakfugpvabr rksagwuzaklagqroog ubuibgrlgbmu
.kkcgakfugbzviugkpgXvaiklgwvzulbvxu;g.sbgrbgqroog.ugakgfsimgbmugfkzugbk
bmurzg raizu rb,gbmvbgbmutgvookqu gbmugbvacgbkg unkonugklgklugqmkgra
esrbugvglknriugrlgbmuaugbmrlxajggRbgragklotgzrxmb,gFklaurxlusz,gbmvbgbmu
qkzcgamkso gikfug.upkzugbmugqkzo gsl uzgtkszgvsawriua,garliugqmvbunuz
uful vbrklagvl gwkoramgrbgfvtgmvnugzuiurnu ,gvzugkqrlxgbkgtksjggAbroogR
auugquoogbmvb,grpgtksgbmrlcgwzkwuzgbkg.vovliugviikslbagqrbmgbmugvsbmkz,
tksgqroogprl gtkszauopgfsimgmrag u.bkz;gpkzgvxvrlabgmraguhiuooulbgvl 
zuorxrksag raikszaua,gmragokpbtgvl ,gakgbkgawuvc,g rnrlugikliuwbrkla,gtks
qroogprl gbmvbgtksgqroogmvnugbkgaubglkbmrlxg.sbgqkz agvl gwmzvaukokxt;gv
akzbgkpgfuzimvl raugakgkz rlvztgvl gikffklwoviu,gbmvbgqmkunuzgmvagbmu
fkabgkpgrb,gwuzv nulbszugragbmugqkzabgkppj

Fklaurxlusz,gRgwzvtgXk gbkgxzvlbgtksgvgnuztgoklxgvl gmvwwtgorpujggPzkf
Wvzra,gbmrag18bmgkpgYslug1568jggTkszgfkabgmsf.ougvl gfkabgk.u rulbgakl,

FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU




RRRj

BkgFklarusz,gFklaruszg ugOVLAVI,--[Bmragoubbuzgvwwuvzagbkg.uoklxgbk
1570j]--ClrxmbgkpgbmugCrlx’agKz uz,gWzrntgIkslirookz,gAs.-iklbzkoouzgkp
mragPrlvliu,gvl gIvwbvrlgkpgbmugIulbgXvz uagkpgmragMksaumko j

FKLARUSZ,--Rgaul gtksgbmugKUiklkfriagkpgHulkwmkl,gwsbgrlbkgPzulimg.tgbmu
ovbugFjg ugovg.kubru,--[Wzrlbu gvbgWvzra,g8nk,g1571,gvl gzuraasu ,gqrbm
bmugv  rbrklgkpgakfuglkbua,grlg1572,gqrbmgvgpzuamgbrbou-wvxuj]--vgwzuaulb
qmrimgvwwuvzagbkgfugbkg.ugvwwzkwzrvbu,gvagquoog.uivsaugrbgragbmugqkzcgkp
vgxulboufvlgkpgfvzc,--[FuvlrlxgHulkwmklj]--vgfvlgroosabzrksagrlgqvzgvl 
wuviu,gvag.uivsaugrbgmvagbvculgrbagauikl gamvwugpzkfgvgwuzaklvxugqmkfgR
clkqgbkgmvnug.uulgmuo g.tgtksgrlgvppuibrklvbugzuxvz g szrlxgmragorpuj
Bmragqroog.ugvlgrl siufulbgbkgtksgbkgiklbrlsugbkgimuzramgbkqvz agmra
fufkzt,gtkszgxkk gkwrlrklgvl gxkk qroojggVl gbkg.ug.ko gqrbmgtks,
Fklarusz,g kglkbgpuvzgbkgrlizuvaugbmuaugaulbrfulbagakfuqmvb;gpkz,gvagtks
mv gclkqou xugkpgmragmrxmgesvorbruagklotgrlgmragws.origivwvirbt,grbgzuaba
qrbmgfugbkgvaaszugtksgmkqgfvltgul kqfulbagmugwkaauaau g.utkl gtksz
wuzaklvoguhwuzruliugkpgmrfjggMug r gfugbmugmklksz,gqmrougmugornu ,gvl gR
ikslbgrbgvfklxabgbmugfkabgpkzbslvbugirzisfabvliuagrlgftgkqlgivzuuz,gbk
mvnugqrbmgfugvgpzrul amrwgakgiokaugvl gakgrlbzrivbuotgclrb,gbmvbglk
fknufulb,grfwsoau,gbmksxmb,gkpgmragfrl gqvagcuwbgpzkfgfu,gvl grpgRgmvnu
lkbgpkzfu gvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkpgmrf,gRgfsabgaswwkaugrbgbkg.ugpzkfgftgkql
qvlbgkpgaikwujggRl uu ,gqrbmksbguhvxxuzvbrkl,gmugqvagakgluvzotgvgwzk rxt,
bmvbgRgvfgvpzvr gkpglkbg.urlxgizu rbu gqmulgRgawuvcgkpgmrf,gunulgbmksxmgR
amkso gcuuwgfsimgqrbmrlgbmugfvzcgkpgftgkqlgvibsvogclkqou xujggVl gpkz
bmragbrfu,gFklarusz,gRgamvoogiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgwzvtrlxgtks,gpkzgbmu
mklkszgvl gzuawuibgqugkqugbkgbzsbm,gbkgbuabrptgvl g.uorunugbmvbgksz
Xsrulluglunuzg.umuo gmragwuuzgvfklxgbmugfulgkpgmragnkivbrkljggSl uzgbmu
mkwu,gbmuzupkzu,gbmvbgtksgqroogwvtgmrfgmragysabg su,gvl grlgkz uzgbk
zupzuamgmrfgrlgtkszgfufkzt,gRgwzuaulbgtksgbmrag.kkc,gqmrimgqroogvlaquz
pkzgfugbmvb,gquzugrbglkbgpkzgbmugrlaspprirulitgkpgftgwkquz,gRgqkso gkppuz
tksgvagqroorlxotgakfubmrlxgkpgftgkql,gvagvlgviclkqou xfulbgkpgbmu
k.orxvbrklagRgkqugbkgtks,gvl gkpgbmugvlirulbgpvnkszgvl gpzrul amrwgqmrim
tksgmvnug.kzlugbkqvz agbmugfuf.uzagkpgkszgmksaujgg.sb,gFklarusz,grl
 upvsobgkpg.ubbuzgikrl,gRgkppuzgtksgrlgwvtfulbgbmugvaaszvliugkpgftg uarzu
bkg kgtksgmsf.ougauznriuj

Fklarusz,gRgwzvtgXk gbkgmvnugtksgrlgMragcuuwrlxjggTkszgk.u rulbgauznvlb,
FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLUj




RNj

BkgFklarusz,gFklaruszg ugFUAFUA,gOkz gkpgZkraatgvl gFvovaardu,gWzrnt
IkslirookzgbkgbmugCrlxj

FKLARUSZ,--Rbgragklugkpgbmugfkabgiklawrisksagpkooruagikffrbbu g.tgful,
bkgufwoktgbmugabzulxbmgkpgbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxgrlgknuzbszlrlxgvl 
 uabzktrlxgbmkaugkwrlrklagqmrimgvzugikffklotgzuiurnu gvfklxgsa,gvl gqmrim
vppkz gsagavbrapvibrklgvl giklbulb;gpkzgqmrougunuztbmrlxg.uluvbmgmuvnul
ufwoktagbmugqvtagvl gfuvlagwoviu gvbgrbag rawkavog.tglvbszugpkzgbmu
v nvliufulbgvl gikffk rbtgkpgrbag.urlx,gbmuau,grlgkz uzgbkgvwwuvzgkpgv
fkzugawzrxmbotgvl gulorxmbulu gqrb,glkbgviiuwbrlxgvltbmrlxgqmrimgmvaglkb
.uulgbzru gvl g.vovliu gvgbmksavl gbrfuagqrbmgbmugfkabgas.bougzuvaklrlx,
avizrpriugbmurzgwuviugkpgfrl gbkg ks.b,gsluvarluaa,gvl gpunuzram
uhirbufulbjggRbgraglkbgqrbmksbgzuvaklgbmvbgimro mkk gvl garfworirbtgmvnu
.uulgzuikfful u g.tgmkotgqzrbgrbauopjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgwzupuzgbkg.ugesrub
zvbmuzgbmvlgiounuz:gxrnugfugiklbulb,gunulgrpgRgvfglkbgbkg.ugakgqr ugrlgft
zvlxujggBmragragbmugzuvakl,gFklarusz,gqmt,gvobmksxmgwuzaklagkpgvl
rlxulrksagbszlgovsxmgvbgkszgivzugvagbkgqmvbgqroogmvwwulgvpbuzgkszgkql
brfu,gpkzgrlabvliu,gbkgkszgaksoa,gqmrim,gok xu guoauqmuzu,gqroogokaugvoo
iklairksaluaagkpgqmvbgxkuagklgmuzug.uokq,gtubgRgiklar uzgrbgbkg.ugvgxzuvb
iklakovbrklgpkzgbmugpzvrobtgvl g.zunrbtgkpgorpu,gbkgzupouibgbmvbgqugmvnu
bmugwkquzgkpgwzkoklxrlxgrbg.tgzuwsbvbrklgvl gpvfu;gvl gRguf.zviugnuzt
zuv rotgbmragwouvavlbgvl gpvnkszv.ouglkbrklgkzrxrlvogqrbmgkszg.urlx,
qrbmksbgrlesrzrlxgbkkgizrbrivootgmkqgkzgqmtgrbgrajggRlakfsimgbmvbgmvnrlx
oknu ,g.utkl gunuztbmrlx,gbmugovbugFjg ugovg.kubru,gbmugxzuvbuabgfvl,grl
ftgys xfulb,gkpgkszgvxu,gRgamkso gbmrlcgftauopgnuztgluxorxulbgkpgftg sbt
rpgRgpvrou ,gbkgbmugsbfkabgkpgftgwkquz,gbkgwzunulbgasimgvglvfugvagmra,
vl gvgfufkztgakgzrimotgfuzrbrlxgzufuf.zvliu,gpzkfgpvoorlxgrlbkgk.ornrkl;
vl grpgRg r glkbgsaugftg.uabgul uvnkszgbkgcuuwgbmufgpzuamjggRg.uorunu
bmvbgmugpuuoagakfubmrlxgkpgqmvbgRg kgklgmrag.umvop,gvl gbmvbgftgauznriua
bksimgvl gzuykriugmrfjggRlgpvib,gmugornuagrlgftgmuvzbgakgnrnr otgvl gak
qmkoot,gbmvbgRgvfgokvbmgbkg.uorunugmrfgikffrbbu gbkgbmug soogxzksl ,gkz
vobkxubmuzgivabgkppgpzkfgikffslrivbrklgqrbmgsajggBmuzupkzu,gFklarusz,
arliugunuztgluqgorxmbgRgivlgamu gklgmrfgvl gmraglvfu,gragakgfsimgv  u gbk
mragauikl gwuzrk gkpguhrabuliu,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,garliugmraglvfugragullk.ou 
vl gmklkszu g.tgbmugwoviugqmrimgzuiurnuagrb,grbgpvooagbkgfuglkbgklotgbk
uhbul grbgvagqr uotgvagRgivl,g.sbgbkgiklpr ugrbgbkgbmugcuuwrlxgkpgwuzakla
kpgmklkszgvl gnrzbsu;gvfklxgqmkfgtksgmko gasimgvgzvlc,gbmvb,gbkgvppkz 
tksgbmugkwwkzbslrbtgkpgzuiurnrlxgbmragluqgxsuab,gvl gxrnrlxgmrfgxkk 
ulbuzbvrlfulb,gRg uir u gklgwzuaulbrlxgbkgtksgbmragorbbougqkzc,glkbgpkz
vltgwzkprbgtksgvzugorcuotgbkg uzrnugpzkfgrb,g.urlxgquoogvqvzugbmvbgtksg k
lkbgluu gbkgmvnugWosbvzimgvl gmragikfwvlrklagrlbuzwzubu gbkgtks--.sbgrb
ragwkaar.ougbmvbgFv vfug ugZkraat,gzuv rlxgrlgrbgbmugkz uzgkpgmuz
mksaumko gfvlvxufulbgvl gkpgtkszgmvwwtgviikz gwvrlbu gbkgbmugorpu,gqroo
.ugwouvau gbkgauugmkqgmuzgkqlglvbszvogrliorlvbrklgmvaglkbgklotgzuvimu 
.sbgaszwvaau gbmugbmukzruagkpgbmugqrauabgwmrokakwmuza,gzuxvz rlxgbmu
 sbruagvl govqagkpgbmugqu  u gabvbujggVl ,gvbgvoogunulba,grbgqroog.u
voqvtagvlgmklkszgbkgfu,gbkg.ugv.ougbkg kgvltbmrlxgqmrimgamvoog.ugpkzgbmu
wouvaszugkpgtksgvl gtksza,gklgviikslbgkpgbmugk.orxvbrklgsl uzgqmrimgRgoru
bkgauznugtksj

Fklarusz,gRgwzvtgXk gbkgxzvlbgtksgvgoklxgvl gmvwwtgorpujggPzkfgFklbvrxlu,
bmrag30bmgVwzrog1570jggTkszgmsf.ougauznvlb,
FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLUj




Nj

BkgFklarusz,gFklaruszg ugO’MKAWRBVO,gImvliuookzgkpgPzvliu

FKLAURXLUSZ,--Rgvfgkpgbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgwuzaklagasimgvagtks,gbkgqmkf
pkzbslugvl gzuvaklgmvnugikffrbbu gbmugimvzxugkpgws.origvppvrza,gvzuglkb
fkzugrlesrarbrnugrlgvltgwkrlbgbmvlgrlgvaiuzbvrlrlxgbmugimvzvibuzgkpgbmkau
rlgkppriugsl uzgtks;gpkzglkgakirubtgragakgwkkzotgpszlramu ,g.sbgbmvb,grp
vgwzkwuzg rabzr.sbrklgkpgvsbmkzrbtg.ugsau ,grbgmvagwuzaklagaspprirulbgpkz
bmug raimvzxugkpgvoogkpprirvog sbrua;gvl gqmulgbmragragbmugivau,glkbmrlx
ragqvlbrlxgbkgfvcugvgAbvbugwuzpuibgrlgrbagiklabrbsbrkljggLkq,grl
wzkwkzbrklgvagbmragragakgfsimgbkg.ug uarzu ,gakgrbgragbmugfkzug rpprisob
kpgviikfworamfulb,garliugtksgivllkbgmvnugutuagbkguf.zviugvgfsobrbs ugak
ovzxugvl gakgqr uotguhbul u ,glkzgbkgauugbkgbmug.kbbkfgkpgmuvzba,grl
kz uzgbmvbgtksgfvtg raiknuzgrlbulbrklagvl giklairuliua,gfvbbuza
wzrlirwvootgbkg.ugiklar uzu ;gakgbmvbgbmuzugmvaglunuzg.uulgvlt
ikffklquvobmgakgquoogkzxvlrau ,grlgqmrimgqugfrxmbglkbg ubuibgkpbulgulksxm
 upuibgrlgasimgvg uwvzbfulbgkzgasimgvgimkriu;gvl grlgbmkaugatabufa,gqmuzu
rxlkzvliugvl gfvoriu,gpvnkszrbraf,grlbzrxsu,gvl gnrkouliugxknuzl,grpgvlt
auouibrklgmvwwulagbkg.ugfv ugklgbmugxzksl gkpgfuzrbgvl gzuxsovzrbt,gqu
fvtg ks.bouaagbmvlcgPkzbslu,gqmrim,grlgrbagivwzrirksagfknufulba,gmvagpkz
kliugbvculgbmugwvbmgkpgzuvaklj

Bmragiklar uzvbrkl,gFklaurxlusz,gkpbulgiklakou gfu,gqmulgRg.umuo gFj
Ubrullug ugovg.kubru,gklugkpgbmugprbbuabgfulgpkzgmrxmgkppriugrlgPzvliu,
wvaagmragqmkougorpugqrbmksbgufwoktfulbgvl glkbriu,g.tgmrag kfuabri
muvzbm,gbkgbmugarlxsovzg ubzrfulbgkpgbmugws.ori;gpkz,gakgpvzgvagmugqva
ikliuzlu ,gRgfvtgvaaszugtks,gFklaurxlusz,gbmvbgmugqvagakgzrimgrlgbmkau
bzuvaszuagqmrimg uptgpkzbslu,gbmvbglunuzgqvagfvlgfkzugavbrapru gkz
iklbulbjggRgclkq,grl uu ,gbmvbgmugqvagzvrau gbkgbmug rxlrbruagiklluibu 
qrbmgmraglurxm.kszmkk -- rxlrbruagviikslbu giklar uzv.ou;gvl gRgclkq
voak,gbmvbglkgklugunuzgviesrbbu gmrfauopg.ubbuzgkpgbmuf;gvl gqmulgmug ru 
vbgbmugvxugkpgbmrzbt-bqk,gmugulyktu gvgzuwsbvbrklgrlgbmvbgqvtg.utkl gvoo
qmkgmv gwzuiu u gmrfj

.sbgpkzgvoogbmvb,grbgraglkgzuvaklgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso g.ugoupbgvgikffkl
ako ruz,gqmkg uauznuagbkg.uikfugvgivwbvrl;glkzgbkgvaarxlgfuvlgpslibrkla
bkgbmkaugqmkgvzugwuzpuibotguesvogbkgbmugmrxmuabjggRlgbzsbm,gmragwkquza
quzug.v otguiklkfrau gvl gbkkgawvzrlxotgufwoktu ;grlakfsimgbmvb,gknuzgvl 
v.knugmragvibsvogqkzc,gbmuzugqvagv.sl vlbgivwvirbtgotrlxgr ougqmrimgfrxmb
mvnug.uulgivoou grlbkgauznriu,g.kbmgbkgbmugws.origv nvlbvxugvl gmragkql
wzrnvbugxokztj

Bmuzupkzu,gFklaurxlusz,garliugmugqvagakgrl rppuzulbgbkgmragkqlgpvfug(pkz
nrzbsugvl gvf.rbrkl,gslpkzbslvbuot,gauo kfgok xugbkxubmuz),gvl garliugmu
ornu grlgvlgvxugqmulgkbmuzagquzugbkkg soogkzgbkkgyuvoksagbkgqrbluaagbk
mragimvzvibuz,gRgmvnugrbgfvznuooksaotgvbgmuvzbgbmvbgmragfufkzt,gvbgvoo
unulba,gbkgqmrimgRgkqugbmugxkk gkppriuagkpgvgpzrul ,gamkso gulyktgbmu
zuikfwulaugkpgmrag.zvnugorpu;gvl gbmvbgrbgamkso gasznrnugrlgbmugxkk 
zuwkzbgkpgfulgkpgmklkszgvl gnrzbsujggKlgbmragviikslb,garz,gRgmvnug.uul
 uarzksagbkg.zrlxgbkgorxmb,gvl gwzuaulbgbkgtks,gasimgpuqgOvbrlgnuzauagva
mugoupbg.umrl jgg rppuzulbgpzkfgbmug.sro uz,gqmkgwoviuagbmugfkab
vbbzvibrnu,gwkzbrklgkpgmragmksaugbkqvz agbmugabzuub,gvl gbkgbmug zvwuz,
qmkg rawovtagrlgmragqrl kqgmrag.uabgxkk a,gbmvbgqmrimgqvagfkabgwzuirksa
rlgftgpzrul ,gbmugysriugvl gfvzzkqgkpgmragxulrsa,g uwvzbu gqrbmgmrf,gvl 
bmuzugmvnugzufvrlu gbkgsag.sbgbmug.vzcgvl gbmugouvnuaj

Bmuguhvibotgzuxsovbu gfknufulbagkpgmragfrl ,gmragwrubt,gmragnrzbsu,gmra
ysabriu,gmragnrnvirbt,gbmugakor rbtgvl gaksl luaagkpgmragys xfulb,gbmu
okpbrluaagkpgmragr uva,gzvrau gakgpvzgv.knugbmugikffklgounuo,gmra
ouvzlrlx,gbmugxzviugqmrimgviikfwvlru gmragfkabgkz rlvztgvibrkla,gbmu
bul uzgvppuibrklgmugmv gpkzgmragfrauzv.ougikslbzt,gvl gmragaswzufugvl 
aqkzlg ubuabvbrklgkpgvoognriu,g.sbgwzrlirwvootgkpgbmvbgnroovrlksagbzvppri
qmrimg raxsrauagrbauopgsl uzgbmugmklkszv.ouglvfugkpgysabriu,gamkso 
iuzbvrlotgrfwzuaagvoogquoo- rawkau gwuzaklagqrbmgvgarlxsovzgoknugbkqvz a
mrf,gvl gvlguhbzvkz rlvztgzuxzubgpkzgmragokaajgg.sb,garz,gRgvfgslv.ougbk
 kgysabriugbkgvoogbmuaugesvorbrua;gvl gkpgbmugpzsrbgkpgmragkqlgabs ruagrb
mv glkbgulbuzu grlbkgmragfrl gbkgouvnugvltgwzkkpgbkgwkabuzrbt;gvoogbmvb
zufvrla,gragbmugorbbougqmrim,gvagvgwvabrfu,gmug r gvbgrlbuznvoaj

Mkqunuzgbmragfvtg.u,gRg.uxgtks,garz,gbkgzuiurnugrbgcrl ot;gvl gvagksz
ys xfulbgkpgxzuvbgbmrlxagragfvltgbrfuagpkzfu gpzkfgouaauzgbmrlxa,gvl gva
unulgbmugzuizuvbrklagkpgroosabzrksagfulgivzztgqrbmgbmuf,gbkgrlbuoorxulb
k.auznuza,gakfugmklkszv.ougbzvrbagkpgbmurzgkzrxrl,gRgqkso gmvnugtksgpkzf
pzkfgbmra,gakfugclkqou xugkpgmrf,gvl gmuliugoknrlxotgimuzramgmraglvfugvl 
mragfufkztjggRlgbmra,garz,gtksgqroogklotgzuirwzkivbugbmugmrxmgkwrlrkl
qmrimgmugmv gkpgtkszgnrzbsu,gvl gzuvoraugqmvbgmugrlprlrbuotg uarzu grl
mragorpubrfu;gpkzgbmuzugqvaglkgklugrlgbmugqkzo grlgqmkaugviesvrlbvliugvl 
pzrul amrwgmugqkso gmvnug.uulgakgmvwwtgbkgauugmrfauopguabv.oramu ,gvagrl
tkszgkqljgg.sbgrpgvltgfvlgragkppul u g.tgbmugpzuu kfgqmrimgRgsaugqrbmgbmu
.uoklxrlxagkpgvlkbmuz,gRgivlgbuoogmrfgbmvbglkbmrlxgqmrimgmvag.uulgqzrbbul
kzg.uulgovr g kql,gunulgrlgbmugaimkkoagkpgwmrokakwmt,gzuawuibrlxgbmu
avizu g sbruagvl gzrxmbagkpgpzrul amrw,gikso gxrnugvlgv uesvbugr uvgkp
bmugzuovbrklagqmrimgas.arabu g.ubquulgbmragwuzaklvxugvl gftauopj

Fkzuknuz,garz,gbmragaoul uzgxrpb,gbkgfvcugbqkgbmzkqagkpgklugabklugvbgbmu
avfugbrfu,gfvtgorcuqraugauznu,grpgtksgwouvau,gbkgbuabrptgbmugmklkszgvl 
zuawuibgqmrimgRgulbuzbvrlgpkzgtkszgv.rorbtgvl gmrxmgesvorbrua;gpkzgvagbk
bmkaugxrpbagqmrimgvzugv nulbrbrksagvl gviir ulbvo,grbgraglkbgbkgftgbvabu
bkgbvcugbmufgrlbkgviikslbj

Arz,gRgwzvtgXk gbkgxzvlbgtksgvgnuztgmvwwtgvl gvgnuztgoklxgorpujggPzkf
Fklbvrxlu,gbmrag30bmgkpgVwzrog1570j--Tkszgmsf.ougvl gk.u rulbgauznvlb,

FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLUj




BkgFklarusz,gFklaruszg ugPkoh,gWzrntgIkslirookz,gvl gVf.vaav kzgkpgMra
FvyuabtgbkgbmugArxlkztgkpgNulriuj--[gWzrlbu g.upkzugbmug‘NuzagPzvlikra’
kpgUbrullug ugovg.kubru,g8nk,gWvzra,g1572j]

ARZ,--.urlxgklgbmugwkrlbgkpgikfful rlxgbkgtksgvl gbkgwkabuzrbtgbmugfufkzt
kpgbmugovbugUbrullug ugovg.kubru,gvagquoogpkzgmraguhbzufugnrzbsugvagpkz
bmugarlxsovzgvppuibrklgqmrimgmug.kzugbkgfu,grbgabzsicgfugvagvl
rl raizubrklgnuztgauzrksagrlgrbagzuasoba,gvl gfuzrbrlxgakfugikuzirklgpzkf
kszgovqa,gbmugwzvibriugqmrimgkpbulgwzunvroagkpgzk..rlxgnrzbsugkpgxokzt,
rbagpvrbmpsogvaakirvbu,grlgkz uzgbkgiklpuzgrb,grlgviikz vliugqrbmgksz
wzrnvbugrlbuzuabagvl gqrbmksbg raizrfrlvbrkl,gklgbmugprzabgikfuz;gauurlx
bmvbgkszgbqkgwzrlirwvogxsr rlxgzurlagvzugzuqvz gvl gwslramfulb,gqmrim
klotgbksimgsagwzkwuzot,gvl gvagful,gbmzksxmgbmugfu rsfgkpgmklkszgvl 
 ramklksz,gpkzvafsimgvagbmuaugwulubzvbugbmugfrl ,gvl gikfugmkfugbkgksz
fkabgrlbrfvbugpuuorlxa:gysabgqmuzugvlrfvoagbmufauonuagvzugasaiuwbr.ou,
fkzugkzgouaa,gbkgvoogkbmuzgcrl agkpgzuikfwulaugvl gikzwkzvogimvabraufulbj
Fkzuknuz,grbgragquoogbkglkbriugbmvbgbmugisabkfgkpgwzvrarlxgnrzbsu,gunul
rlgbmkaugqmkgvzuglkgoklxuzgqrbmgsa,grfwvowv.ougvagrbgragbkgbmuf,gauznua
vagvgabrfsovlbgbkgbmugornrlxgbkgrfrbvbugbmurzguhvfwou;gysabgvagivwrbvo
aulbuliuagvzugivzzru gksbg.tgbmugovq,gfkzugpkzgbmugavcugkpgqvzlrlxgbk
kbmuza,gbmvlgrlgzuovbrklgbkgbmkaugqmkgasppuzjggLkq,gikfful vbrklgvl grba
kwwkarbug.urlxgvlvokxksagvagzuxvz aguppuiba,gqugivllkbguvarotg ult
bmugpvib,gbmvbgvobmksxmgbmugovqgwzkmr.rbagklugfvlgpzkfgaovl uzrlxgbmu
zuwsbvbrklgkpgvlkbmuz,grbg kuaglkbgwzunulbgsagpzkfg.uabkqrlxgzuwsbvbrkl
qrbmksbgivsaujggBmragwuzlrirksagoriuliugrlgzuawuibgbkgbmug rabzr.sbrklgkp
wzvrau,gmvagpkzfuzotg.uulgiklprlu grlgrbagvzuvgkpgkwuzvbrkla;gvl grbgfvt
.ugbmugzuvaklgqmtgwkubztgkliugokabgpvnkszgqrbmgbmugfkzugys rirksaj
Mkqunuzgbmragfvtg.u,grbgivllkbg.ugikliuvou gbmvbgbmugnriugkpgpvoaumkk gra
klugnuztgsl.uikfrlxgrlgxulboufvl,goubgrbgvaasfugqmvbgxsraugrbgqrooj

VagpkzgbmvbgwuzaklvxugkpgqmkfgRgvfgawuvcrlxgbkgtks,garzgmugouv agfugpvz
vqvtgrl uu gpzkfgbmragcrl gkpgovlxsvxu;gpkzgbmug vlxuzgrlgmragivaugra
lkb,gouabgRgamkso goul gmrfgvltbmrlx,g.sbgbmvbgRgfrxmbgbvcugakfubmrlx
pzkfgmrf;gvl grbgragmragroo-pkzbslugbmvb,gqmrougmugmvagaswworu gfu,gak
pvzgvagunuzgvgfvlgikso ,gqrbmgysabgvl gk.nrksagkwwkzbslrbruagpkz
ikfful vbrkl,gRgprl gftauopgslv.ougvl gslesvorpru gbkgzul uzgrbgbkgmrf
--R,gqmkgvfgmrag u.bkzgpkzgakgfvltgnrnr gikffslrivbrkla,gvl gqmkgvoklu
mvnugrbgrlgftgwkquzgbkgvlaquzgpkzgvgfroorklgkpgviikfworamfulba,
wuzpuibrkla,gvl gnrzbsua,govbulbg(bmvlcagbkgmragslcrl gabvza)grlgakglk.ou
vgaksojggPkzgbmuglvbszugkpgbmrlxagmvnrlxg(Rgclkqglkbgmkq)gwuzfrbbu gbmvb
bzsbm,gpvrzgvl gviiuwbv.ou--vagrbgfvtg.ugkpgrbauop,gragklotguf.zviu 
qmuzugbmuzugvzugvzbagkpgwuzasvarkl,gbkgrlarlsvbugrbgrlbkgkszgfrl a,gRgauu
ftauopgakgqvlbrlx,g.kbmgrlgvsbmkzrbtgbkgaswwkzbgftgarfwougbuabrfklt,gvl 
rlgbmuguokesuliugzuesrarbugpkzgoul rlxgrbgnvosugvl gqurxmb,gbmvbgRgqvagkl
bmugunugkpgzuorlesramrlxgbmugbvac,gmvnrlxglkbmrlxgkpgmragqmrimgqkso 
ulv.ougfugbkguhmr.rbgbkgbmugqkzo gvgwzkkpgkpgmragxulrsagvl gclkqou xuj

Rlgbzsbm,garz,gmvnrlxg.uulgknuzbvculg.tgmragpvbugrlgbmugpokquzgkpgmra
vxu,gvl grlgbmugpsoogulyktfulbgkpgbmugfkabgnrxkzksagmuvobm,grbgmv g.uul
mrag uarxlgbkgws.oramgakfug vtgqkzcagqmrimgqkso gmvnug ufklabzvbu gbk
wkabuzrbtgqmvbgakzbgkpgvgfvlgmugqva;gvl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gmugqva
rl rppuzulbgulksxmgbkgpvfu,gmvnrlxgpkzfu gasimgvgwovlgrlgmragmuv ,gbk
wzkiuu glkgpszbmuzgrlgrbjgg.sbgRgmvnugikfugbkgbmugikliosarkl,gbmvbgrbgqva
pvzgfkzuguhisav.ougrlgmrfgbkg.sztgqrbmgmrfgvoogmragzvzugul kqfulba,gbmvl
rbgqkso g.ugklgftgwvzbgbkg.sztgvoakgqrbmgfugbmugclkqou xugkpgbmufgqmrimgR
mv gviesrzu gpzkfgmrf;gvl ,gbmuzupkzu,gmvnrlxgikoouibu gqrbmgivzugvoogbmu
zufvrlagqmrimgRgpksl gaivbbuzu gmuzugvl gbmuzugvfklxgmragwvwuza,gRgrlbul 
bkg rabzr.sbugbmufgakgvagbkgzuikfful gmragfufkztgbkgvagfvltgwuzaklagva
wkaar.ou,gauouibrlxgbmugfkabgasrbv.ougvl gqkzbmtgkpgftgviesvrlbvliu,gvl 
bmkaugqmkaugbuabrfkltgfrxmbg kgmrfgxzuvbuabgmklksz:gasimgvagtks,garz,gqmk
fvtgnuztgwkaar.otgmvnugmv gakfugclkqou xugkpgmrfg szrlxgmragorpu,g.sb
vaaszu otgbkkgaorxmbgbkg raiknuzgbmugwuzpuibguhbulbgkpgmragqkzbmj
Wkabuzrbtgfvtgizu rbgfu,grpgrbgimkkaua,gqmulgRgaquvzgswklgftgiklairuliu,
bmvbgRgcluqgvl gavqgmrfgbkg.ugasimgva,gvoogbmrlxagiklar uzu ,gRgikso 
lurbmuzg uarzuglkzgrfvxrlugvgxulrsagaszwvaarlxgmraj

Rg.uxgtksgnuztgmsf.ot,garz,glkbgklotgbkgbvcugmraglvfugsl uzgtkszgxuluzvo
wzkbuibrkl,g.sbgvoakgbmuaugbulgkzgbquonugPzulimgabvldva,gqmrimgovt
bmufauonua,gvagkpgluiuaarbt,gsl uzgamv kqgkpgtkszgwvbzklvxujggPkzgRgqroo
lkbg raxsraugpzkfgtks,gbmvbgbmurzgws.orivbrklgqvag upuzzu ,gswklgbmu
vwwuvzvliugkpgmragkbmuzgqzrbrlxa,gsl uzgbmugwzubuhbg(vagrbgqvagvoouxu 
tkl uzgvbgWvzra)gbmvbgbmutgquzugbkkgizs ugbkgikfugbkgorxmbjggTksgqroo
ys xu,garz,gmkqgfsimgbzsbmgbmuzugragrlgbmra;gvl garliugrbgragbmksxmbgbmvb
muzuv.ksbglkbmrlxgivlg.ugwzk siu grlgkszgkqlg rvouibg.sbgqmvbgra
.vz.vzksagvl gslwkoramu ,grbgpvooagbkgtks,gqmk,g.uar uagtkszgzvlcgvagbmu
przabgmksaugrlgXsrullu,grl uu g kqlgpzkfgtkszgvliuabkza,gwkaauaagunuzt
kbmuzgakzbgkpgesvorprivbrkl,gbkguabv.oram,glkbgfuzuotg.tgtkszguhvfwou,
.sbg.tgtkszgvsbmkzrbvbrnugbuabrfklt,gbmvbgasimgraglkbgvoqvtagbmugivau:
bmugfkzugakgbmvb,gbmksxmg‘bragfkzuglvbszvogqrbmgbmugXvaiklagbkgvibgbmvl
bvoc,gtubgakfubrfuagbmutgufwoktgbmugbklxsugfkzugbmvlgbmugvzf,gvl gqrbgrl
woviugkpgnvokszj

Pkzgftgkqlgwvzb;garz,grbgraglkbgrlgftgqvtgbkgys xugkpgasimgfvbbuza;g.sbgR
mvnugmuvz gwuzaklagqmkgvzugaswwkau gbkgsl uzabvl gbmuf,gavtgbmvbgbmuau
abvldvagvzuglkbgklotgqkzbmtgbkg.ugwzuaulbu grlgbmugfvzcub-woviu,g.sb,
rl uwul ulbotgkpgbmvb,gvagzuxvz ag.uvsbtgvl gquvobmgkpgrlnulbrkl,gbmut
vzugpsoogkpgfvzzkqgvl gfvbbuzgvagvltgikfwkarbrklagkpgbmugcrl ,gqmrimgmvnu
vwwuvzu grlgkszgovlxsvxujggLvbszvootguvimgqkzcfvlgpuuoagmrfauopgfkzu
abzklxgrlgakfugawuirvogwvzbgmragvzb,gvl gbmkaugvzugbkg.ugzuxvz u gvagfkab
pkzbslvbu,gqmkgovtgmvl agklgbmuglk.ouab,gpkzgvoogbmugwvzbaguaaulbrvogbk
bmugiklabzsibrklgkpgvltgqmkougvzuglkbguesvootgwzuirksajggQugprl 
uoauqmuzu,gwuzmvwa,gxzuvbuzg uorivitgwmzvau,gxzuvbuzgakpbluaagvl gmvzfklt
kpgovlxsvxu;g.sbgrfvxrlvbrnugxzviu,gvl grlgbmugabkzugkpgwkrlbu gqrb,gRg k
lkbgbmrlcgmugmvag.uulgaszwvaau ;gvl gqugamkso gbvcugbmugviikslbgbmvbgmu
fv ugbmuaugbmrlxaglurbmuzgmragkiiswvbrklglkzgmragabs t,gvl gbmvbgmu
aivziuotgbkkcgvgwulgrlgmragmvl gfkzugbmvlgkliugvgtuvz,gvagragamkqlg.tgbmu
nuztgaoul uzgesvlbrbtgkpgmragzufvrlajggPkzgtksgauugmuzu,garz,gxzuulgqkk 
vl g zt,gqrbmksbgvltgakzbgkpgauouibrkl,gvoogbmvbgmvagikfugrlbkgft
wkaauaarkl;grlakfsimgbmvbgbmuzugvzugvfklxgbmugzuabguppkzbagunulgkpgmra
.ktmkk jggRlgwkrlbgkpgpvib,gmugauufagbkgmvnugqzrbbulgbmufgfuzuotgbkgamkq
bmvbgmugqvagivwv.ougkpg uvorlxgqrbmgvoogas.yuiba:gpkzgkbmuzqrau,
bmksavl agkpgbrfua,grlgbmugikszaugkpgkz rlvztgiklnuzavbrkl,gRgmvnugmuvz 
bmrlxag zkwgpzkfgmrfgrlprlrbuotgfkzugqkzbmtgkpg.urlxgv frzu ,grlprlrbuot
fkzugqkzbmtgkpg.urlxgwzuauznu j

Asim,garz,gragqmvbgysabriugvl gvppuibrkl,gpkzfrlxgrlgbmragrlabvliugvgzvzu
iklyslibrkl,gk.orxugfugbkgavtgkpgbmragxzuvbgvl gxkk gfvl;gvl grpgRgmvnu
vbgvoogkppul u g.tgbmugpzuu kfgqmrimgRgmvnugbvculgrlgv  zuaarlxgftauopgbk
tksgklgasimgvgas.yuibgvbgasimgvgoulxbm,g.ugwouvau gbkgzuikoouibgbmvbgbmu
wzrlirwvogzuasobgkpgxzuvbluaagvl gufrluliugragbkgovtgklugkwulgbk
rfwkzbslvbugvwwuvoagklg.umvopgkpgbmugzuabgkpgbmugqkzo jggMuzuqrbm,gvpbuz
 uarzrlxgtksgbkgviiuwbgftgvppuibrklvbug unkbrklgbkgtkszgauznriu,
Rg.uauuimgXk gbkgnksimavpugtks,garz,gvgpkzbslvbugvl gwzkoklxu gorpuj
PzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmrag1abgkpgAuwbuf.uzg1570j--Tkszgk.u rulbgauznvlb,

FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLUj





BkgFv ufkrauooug ugFKLBVRXLU,gftgQrpuj--[Wzrlbu gvagvgwzupviugbkgbmu
“IklakovbrklgkpgWosbvzimgbkgmragQrpu,”gws.oramu g.tgFklbvrxlu,gqrbm
aunuzvogkbmuzgbzvibag.tgOvg.kubru,gv.ksbg1571j]

FTgQRPU,--Tksgsl uzabvl gquoogbmvbgrbgraglkbgwzkwuzgpkzgvgfvlgkpgbmu
qkzo ,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugzsouagkpgbmragkszgbrfu,gbkgiklbrlsugbkgikszbgvl 
ivzuaagtks;gpkzgbmutgavtgbmvbgvgaular.ougwuzaklgfvtgbvcugvgqrpugrl uu ,
.sbgbmvbgbkguawksaugmuzgragbkgvibgorcugvgpkkojggOubgbmufgbvoc;gRgv muzu
pkzgftgwvzbgbmugisabkfgkpgbmugxkk gko g vta;gRgvoakgquvzgftgmvrzgvagrb
sau gbkg.ugbmul;gvl ,grlgbzsbm,glknuobtgikabagbmragwkkzgikslbztgswgbkgbmu
wzuaulbgfkfulbgakg uvzg(vl gRg kglkbgclkqgqmubmuzgqugmvnugzuvimu gbmu
mrxmuabgwrbimgtub),gbmvbgunuztqmuzugvl grlgunuztbmrlxgRgzulksliugbmu
pvamrkljggOubgsagornu,gftgqrpu,gtksgvl gR,grlgbmugko gPzulimgfubmk j
Lkq,gtksgfvtgzuikoouibgbmvbgbmugovbugFjg ugovg.kubru,gftg.zkbmuzgvl 
rlauwvzv.ougikfwvlrkl,gxvnugfu,gklgmrag uvbm-.u ,gvoogmrag.kkcagvl 
wvwuza,gqmrimgmvnugzufvrlu gunuzgarliugbmugfkabgwzuirksagwvzbgkpgft
uppuibajggRg kglkbgqramgbkgcuuwgbmufglrxxvz otgbkgftauopgvoklu,glkzg kgR
 uauznugbkgmvnugbmuguhiosarnugsaugkpgbmuf;gakgbmvbgRgmvnugzuakonu gbk
ikffslrivbugbmufgbkgftgpzrul a;gvl g.uivsaugRgmvnuglklu,gRg.uorunu,gfkzu
wvzbrisovzotgrlbrfvbugtks,gRgaul gtksgbmugIklakovbkztgOubbuzgqzrbbulg.t
WosbvzimgbkgmragQrpu,gbzvlaovbu g.tgmrfgrlbkgPzulim;gzuxzubbrlxgfsimgbmvb
pkzbslugmvagfv ugrbgakgasrbv.ougvgwzuaulbgtks,gvl gbmvb,gmvnrlxgmv g.sb
klugimro ,gvl gbmvbgvg vsxmbuz,goklxgokkcu gpkz,gvpbuzgpkszgtuvzagkpgtksz
fvzzru gorpugrbgqvagtkszgokbgbkgokaugmuzgrlgbmugauikl gtuvzgkpgmuzgvxuj
.sbgRgouvnugbkgWosbvzimgbmug sbtgkpgikfpkzbrlxgtks,gviesvrlbrlxgtksgqrbm
tkszg sbtgmuzurl,g.uxxrlxgtksgbkgwsbgtkszgpvrbmgrlgmrfgpkzgftgavcu;gpkz
mugqroogzunuvogbkgtksgftgkqlgr uva,gvl gqrooguhwzuaagbmugfvbbuzgpvz
.ubbuzgbmvlgRgamkso gftauopjggMuzuswkl,gftgqrpu,gRgikfful gftauopgnuzt
muvzbrotgbkgtkszgxkk gqroo,gvl gwzvtgXk gbkgmvnugtksgrlgMragcuuwrlxj
PzkfgWvzra,gbmrag10bmgAuwbuf.uzg1570j--Tkszgxkk gmsa.vl ,

FRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLUj




NRRRj

BkgFklaruszg SWST,--[Bmragragwzk.v.otgbmugIovs ug swst,g.kzlgvbgWvzragrl
1545,gvl gklugkpgbmugpkszbuulgys xuagaulbgrlbkgXsrullugvpbuzgbmugbzuvbt
kpgPourhgrlg1580jggRbgqvagwuzmvwagsl uzgbmuaugirzisfabvliuagbmvb
Fklbvrxlugv  zuaau gbkgmrfgbmugwzuaulbgoubbuzj]--bmugCrlx’agIkslirookzgrl
mragIkszbgvl gWvzorvfulbgkpgWvzraj

FKLARUSZ,--Bmug.sarluaagkpgbmugAruszg ugNuzzua,gvgwzrakluz,gqmkgra
uhbzufuotgquoogclkqlgbkgfu,g uauznua,grlgbmugvzzrnvogvbgvg uirarkl,
bmuguhuziraugkpgbmugioufulitglvbszvogbkgtks,grp,grlgbmugws.origrlbuzuab,
tksgivlgpvrzotgivoogrbgrlbkgwovtjggMugmvag klugvgbmrlxglkbgklot
uhisav.ou,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugfrorbvztgovqagkpgbmragvxu,g.sbgluiuaavztgvl 
(vagqugvzugkpgkwrlrkl)gikfful v.oujggMugikffrbbu gbmugvib,gqrbmksbg ks.b,
slqroorlxotgvl gsl uzgwzuaaszu;gbmuzugraglkgkbmuzgwvaavxugkpgmragorpu
qmrimgragkwulgbkgzuwzkvimjggRg.uauuimgtks,garz,gbkgoul gbmugfvbbuzgtksz
vbbulbrnugiklar uzvbrkl;gtksgqroogprl gbmugimvzvibuzgkpgrbgvagRgzuwzuaulb
rbgbkgtksjggMugragwuzauisbu gklgbmragizrfu,grlgvgqvtgqmrimgragpvzgqkzau
bmvlgbmugkppuliugrbauopjggRpgrbgragorcuotgbkg.ugkpgsaugbkgmrf,gRg uarzu
bkgrlpkzfgtksgbmvbgmugragvgfvlg.zksxmbgswgrlgftgmksau,gzuovbu gbkgaunuzvo
zuawuibv.ougpvfrorua,gvl gvgwuzaklgqmk,gmvnrlxgou gvlgmklkszv.ougorpu,
ragftgwvzbrisovzgpzrul jgg.tgavnrlxgmrfgtksgovtgfugsl uzgvlguhbzufu
k.orxvbrkljggRg.uxgtksgnuztgmsf.otgbkgzuxvz gmrfgvagzuikfful u g.tgfu,
vl ,gvpbuzgcraarlxgtkszgmvl a,gRgwzvtgXk ,garz,gbkgxzvlbgtksgvgoklxgvl 
mvwwtgorpujggPzkfgIvabuzv,gbmrag23 gkpgVwzrog[1580]jggTkszgvppuibrklvbu
auznvlb,
FKLBVRXLUj





RHj

BkgbmugYszvbagkpg.kz uvshj--[Ws.oramu gpzkfgbmugkzrxrlvogvfklxgbmu
vzimrnuagkpgbmugbkqlgkpg.kz uvsh,gFjgXsabvnug.zslubgrlgbmug.sooubrlg s
.r.orkwmrou,gYsotg1839j]

XULBOUFUL,--RgbzsabgbmvbgbmugykszlutgkpgFklaruszg ugIszakogqroog.ugkp
v nvlbvxugbkgbmugbkqljggMvnrlxgrlgmvl gvgivaugakgysabgvl gakgpvnkszv.ou,
tksg r gvoogrlgtkszgwkquzgbkgwsbgbmug.sarluaagrlgxkk gbzrf;gvl gfvbbuza
.urlxgakgquoogarbsvbu ,gRg.uxgtksgbkguhisaugftgv.auliugpkzgakfugorbbou
brfugoklxuz,gvl gRgqroogv.zr xugftgabvtgakgpvzgvagbmugwzuaaszugkpgft
vppvrzagwuzfrbajggRgmkwugbmvbgbmug uovtgqroog.ugamkzb;gmkqunuz,gtksgqroo
cuuwgfu,grpgtksgwouvau,grlgtkszgxkk gxzviu,gvl gqroogikffvl gfu,grpgbmu
kiivarklgamvoogvzrau,grlgufwoktrlxgfugrlgbmugws.origauznriugvl grlgtkszaj
Fklaruszg ugIszakogmvagvoakgqzrbbulgbkgfugvl gvwwzrau gfugkpgmragykszlutj
Rgmsf.otgikfful gftauopgbkgtks,gvl gwzvtgXk ,gxulbouful,gbkgxzvlbgtks
oklxgvl gmvwwtgorpujggPzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmrag21abgkpgFvtg1582jggTkszgmsf.ou
.zkbmuzgvl gauznvlb,
FKLBVRXLUj




Hj

Bkgbmugavfuj--[BmugkzrxrlvogragvfklxgbmugvzimrnuagkpgBksoksauj]

XULBOUFUL,--Rgmvnugbvculgftgpvrzgamvzugkpgbmugavbrapvibrklgqmrimgtks
vllksliugbkgfugvagpuuorlxgvbgbmugxkk g uawvbimgkpgtkszg.sarluaa,gva
zuwkzbu gbkgtksg.tgtkszg uwsbrua,gvl gRgzuxvz grbgvagvgpvnkszv.ougarxl
bmvbgtksgmvnugfv ugasimgvlgvsawrirksagikffuliufulbgkpgbmugtuvzjggRgmkwu
bkgykrlgtksgvbgbmuguvzoruabgiklnulrulbgkwwkzbslrbtjggRgzuikfful gftauop
nuztgmsf.otgbkgtkszgxzvirksagiklar uzvbrkl,gvl gwzvtgXk gbkgxzvlbgtks,
xulbouful,gvgmvwwtgvl goklxgorpujggPzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmrag8bmgPu.zsvzt
1585jggTkszgmsf.oug.zkbmuzgvl gauznvlb,
FKLBVRXLUj




HRj

Bkgbmugavfuj

XULBOUFUL,--Rgmvnugmuzugzuiurnu gluqagkpgtksgpzkfgFjgougFvzuimvojggRgqroo
lkbgawvzugurbmuzgftgorpugkzgvltbmrlxguoaugpkzgtkszgauznriu,gvl gqroo
ouvnugrbgbkgtkszgys xfulbgqmubmuzgbmugvaarabvliugRgfrxmbg.ugv.ougbk
zul uzg.tgftgwzuauliugvbgbmugpkzbmikfrlxguouibrkl,gqkso g.ugqkzbmgbmu
zracgRgamkso gzslg.tgxkrlxgrlbkgbmugbkql,gauurlxgbmug.v gabvbugrbgragrl,
--[Bmragzupuzagbkgbmugwovxsugbmulgzvxrlx,gvl gqmrimgivzzru gkppg14,000
wuzaklagvbg.kz uvshj]--wvzbrisovzotgpkzgwukwougikfrlxgvqvtgpzkfgakgprlu
vlgvrzgvagbmragragqmuzugRgvfjggRgqroog zvqgvagluvzgbkgtksgklgQu lua vtgva
Rgivl,gbmvbgra,gbkgPusroova,grpgbmugfvov tgmvaglkbgzuvimu gbmvbgwoviu,
qmuzu,gvagRgqzrbugbkgFjg ugovgFkobu,gRgamvoog.ugnuztgwouvau gbkgmvnugbmu
mklkszgkpgauurlxgklugkpgtksgbkgbvcugtkszg rzuibrkla,gvl gzuorunugftauop
kpgbmugizu ulbrvoagqmrimgFjgougFvzuimvogqroogxrnugfugpkzgtksgvoo:
ikfful rlxgftauopgmuzuswklgmsf.otgbkgtkszgxkk gxzviu,gvl gwzvtrlxgXk gbk
xzvlbgtks,gxulbouful,goklxgvl gmvwwtgorpujggVbgOr.kszlu,gbmrag30bmgkp
Ysotg1585jggTkszgmsf.ougauznvlbgvl g.zkbmuz,
FKLBVRXLUj




HRRj--[“Viikz rlxgbkg zjgWvtul,gbmragoubbuzg.uoklxagbkg1588jggRba
vsbmulbrirbtgmvag.uulgivoou grlgesuabrkl;g.sbgqzklxot,grlgkszgkwrlrklj
Auug‘ kisfulbagrlu rba’,g1847,gwjgg12j”--Lkbugrlg‘Uaavra’,gu jggWvzra,
1854,grnjgg381jggRbg kuaglkbgvwwuvzgbkgqmkfgbmugoubbuzgqvagv  zuaau j]

FKLAURXLUSZ,--Tksgmvnugmuvz gkpgkszg.vxxvxug.urlxgbvculgpzkfgsagsl uzgksz
utuagrlgbmugpkzuabgkpgNroou.kra:gbmul,gvpbuzgvgxkk g uvogkpg raisaarkl
vl g uovt,gkpgbmugivwbszug.urlxgwzklksliu groouxvog.tgbmugWzrliujggQu
 vzu glkb,gmkqunuz,gwzkiuu gklgkszgqvt,gpzkfgvlgsliuzbvrlbtgvagbkgbmu
avpubtgkpgkszgwuzakla,gqmrimgamkso gmvnug.uulgiouvzotguhwzuaau gklgksz
wvaawkzbajggBmugOuvxsugmvag klugbmra,gFjg ug.vzzvlbgvl gFjg ugov
Zkimupkivsob;gbmugabkzfgmvag.szabgklgfu,gqmkgmv gftgfklutgrlgftg.khjggR
mvnugzuiknuzu glklugkpgrb,gvl gfkabgkpgftgwvwuzagvl givam--[BmugPzulim
qkz gragmvz ua,gqmrimgAbjgYkmlgzul uzagbmrlxajgg.sbgikfwvzugImvf.uza’a
“ kfuabrigVllvoagkpgAikbovl ,”g2 gu jggrjgg48j]--zufvrlgrlgbmurz
wkaauaarkljggRgmvnuglkbgauulgbmugWzrliujggPrpbtgquzugokabgjggjggjggvagpkz
bmugIkslbgkpgBmkzrxlt,gmugokabgakfugnuzgwovbugvl gvgpuqgvzbriouagkp
iokbmrlxjggMug rnuzxu gpzkfgmragzksbugbkgwvtgvgnrarbgbkgbmugfkszlrlx
ov ruagvbgFklbzuakz,gqmuzugvzugbmugzufvrlagkpgmragbqkg.zkbmuzagvl gmra
xzvl fkbmuz,gvl givfugbkgsagvxvrlgrlgbmragbkql,gqmuliugqugamvoogzuasfu
kszgykszlutgamkzbotjggBmugykszlutgbkgLkzfvl tgragwkabwklu jggBmugCrlxgmva
 uawvbimu gFFjg ug.uooruszugvl g ugovgXsrimugbkgFjg ugXsraugbkgasffklgmrf
bkgikszb;gqugamvoog.ugbmuzugklgBmsza vtj

PzkfgKzouvla,gbmrag16bmgkpgPu.zsvzt,grlgbmugfkzlrlxg[1588-9?]j--Tkszgnuzt
msf.ougauznvlb,
FKLBVRXLUj





HRRRj

BkgFv ufkrauoougWVSOFRUZj--[Bmragoubbuz,gvbgbmugbrfugkpgbmugws.orivbrkl
kpgbmugnvzrkzsfgu rbrklgkpg1854,gvwwuvzagbkgmvnug.uulgrlgwzrnvbugmvl aj
Auugnkojggrnjggwjgg382j]

FV UFKRAUOOU,--Ftgpzrul agclkqgbmvb,gpzkfgbmugprzabgfkfulbgkpgksz
viesvrlbvliu,gRgmvnug uabrlu gvgikwtgkpgftg.kkcgpkzgtks;gpkzgRgpuuogbmvb
tksgmvnug klugrbgfsimgmklkszjggBmugikszbuatgkpgFjgWvsofruzgqkso g uwzrnu
fugkpgbmugwouvaszugkpgxrnrlxgrbgbkgtksglkq,gpkzgmugmvagk.orxu gfugarliugv
xzuvbg uvog.utkl gbmugqkzbmgkpgftg.kkcjggTksgqroogviiuwbgrbgbmul,grpgtks
wouvau,gvagmvnrlxg.uulgtkszag.upkzugRgkqu grbgbkgtks,gvl gqroogiklpuzgkl
fugbmugpvnkszgkpgoknrlxgrb,gqmubmuzgpkzgrbagkqlgavcugkzgpkzgfrlu;gvl gR
qroogcuuwgftg u.bgbkgFjgWvsofruzgsl raimvzxu ,gbmvbgRgfvtgzuesrbugmrf,grp
Rgmvnugvbgakfugkbmuzgbrfugbmugfuvlagkpgauznrlxgmrfj




HRNj

BkgbmugCRLX,gMULZTgRNj--[BmugkzrxrlvogragrlgbmugPzulimglvbrklvogor.zvzt,
rlgbmug swstgikoouibrkljggRbgqvagprzabg raiknuzu g.tgFjgVimroougYs.rlvo,
qmkgwzrlbu grbgqrbmgvgpviarfrougkpgbmugulbrzugvsbkxzvwm,grlg1850jggAbj
Ykmlgxrnuagbmug vbugqzklxotgvagbmug1abgYvlsvztg1590j]

ARZU,gRbgragbkg.ugv.knugbmugqurxmbgvl gizkq gkpgtkszgxzuvbgvl grfwkzbvlb
vppvrza,gbkgclkq,gvagtksg k,gmkqgbkgoul gtkszauop,gvl gvbbul gbkgafvoo
fvbbuzagrlgbmurzgbszl,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug sbtgkpgtkszgzktvog rxlrbt,gqmrim
uhwkauagtksgvbgvoogbrfuagbkgunuztg uaizrwbrklgvl g uxzuugkpgwuzaklgvl 
ufwoktfulbjggTub,gbmvbgtkszgFvyuabtgamkso gmvnug urxlu gbkgiklar uzgft
oubbuz,gvl g rzuibgvgzuwotgbkg.ugfv ugbkgrb,gRgwzupuzgbkgkqu,gouaagbk
tkszgabzklxgsl uzabvl rlx,gbmvlgbkgtkszgcrl luaagkpgmuvzbjggRgmvnugvoqvta
okkcu gpkzqvz gbkgtkszgulyktfulbgkpgtkszgwzuaulbgpkzbslu,gvl gtksgfvt
zuikoouibgbmvb,gunulgqmulgRgmv gbkgfvcugiklpuaarklgkpgrbbkgftgiszu,gR
nruqu gtkszgasiiuaauagqrbmgavbrapvibrkl:glkq,gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuzgwzkwzrubt
vl gpzuu kf,gRguf.zviugbmufgvppuibrklvbuotjggBmutgauznugtksgqmuzugtksgvzu
vagwkarbrnugfvbbuzagkpgpvib;g.sbgbmutgauznugsagmuzuglkgouaag.tgbmugpvfu
qmrimgbmutg rppsau:gbmuguimkgivzzruagvagfsimgqurxmbgvagbmug.okqjggQu
amkso glkbg.ugv.ougbkg uzrnugpzkfgbmugysabriugkpgtkszgivsaugasimgwkquzpso
vzxsfulbagpkzgbmugfvrlbulvliugvl gzu sibrklgkpgtkszgas.yuiba,gvagqug k
pzkfgbmugzuwkzbagkpgbmugasiiuaagkpgtkszgsl uzbvcrlx;gvl gbmulgRgmvnugbk
vaaszugtkszgFvyuabt,gbmvbgbmugzuiulbgimvlxuagbkgtkszgv nvlbvxu,gqmrimgtks
k.auznugmuzuv.ksba,gbmugwzkawuzksagraasugkpgtkszgwzkiuu rlxagvbg ruwwu,
mvnugkwwkzbsluotgauikl u gbmugmkluabgduvogvl gfvznuooksagwzs uliugkpgFj
bmugFvzamvog ugFvbrxlkl,gpzkfgqmkfgRgpovbbuzgftauopgbmvbgtksg kglkb
zuiurnug vtg.tg vtgviikslbagkpgasimgxkk gvl garxlvogauznriuagqrbmksb
zufuf.uzrlxgftgvaaszvliuagvl guhwuibvbrklajggRgokkcgbkgbmugluhbgasffuz,
lkbgklotgpkzgpzsrbagqmrimgqugfvtguvb,g.sbgpkzgbmkaugbkgxzkqgksbgkpgksz
ikffklgbzvlesroorbt,gvl gbmvbgrbgqroogwvaagknuzgkszgmuv agqrbmgbmugavfu
unulgbulkzgkpgmvwwrluaa,g raarwvbrlx,gorcugrbagwzu uiuaakza,gvoogbmugprlu
wzkfrauagqrbmgqmrimgtkszgv nuzavzruagasabvrlgbmugawrzrbagkpgbmurz
pkookquzajggBmugwkwsovzgrliorlvbrklagzuauf.ougvgbr vogqvnu;grpgbmu
iszzulbgkliugikffuliuagrlgtkszgpvnksz,grbgqroogxkgklgkpgrbagkqlgpkziugbk
bmugul jggRgikso gmvnug uarzu gfsimgbmvbgbmugwzrnvbugxvrlgkpgbmugako ruza
kpgtkszgvzft,gvl gbmugluiuaarbtgpkzgavbraptrlxgbmuf,gmv glkbg uwzrnu 
tks,guawuirvootgrlgbmragwzrlirwvogbkql,gkpgbmugxokzrksagizu rbgkpgbzuvbrlx
tkszgfsbrlksagas.yuiba,grlgbmugfr abgkpgnribkzt,gqrbmgxzuvbuzgioufulit
bmvlgbmurzgkqlgwzkbuibkza,gvl gbmvb,gvag rabrlxsramu gpzkfgvgwvaarlxgvl 
saszwu gzuwsbu,gtksgikso gmvnugamkqlgbmufgbkg.ugzuvootgtkszgkql,g.tgbmu
uhuziraugkpgvgwzkbuibrklgbzsotgwvbuzlvogvl gzktvojggRlgbmugikl sibgkp
asimgvppvrzagvagtksgmvnugrlgmvl ,gfulgvzugk.orxu gbkgmvnugzuikszaugbk
slsasvoguhwu rulbajggRbgragvoqvtagauulgbmvbgbmutgvzugaszfkslbu g.tgbmurz
fvxlrbs ugvl g rpprisobt;grbglkbg.urlxgpksl guvatgbkgikfwoubugbmu
iklesuabg.tgvzfagvl gpkziu,gbmugul gmvag.uulgviikfworamu g.tgioufulitgvl 
xuluzkarbt,guhiuooulbgoszuagbkg zvqgfulgwvzbrisovzotgbkqvz agbmugysabgvl 
ouxrbrfvbugar ujggRpgbmuzugragbkg.ugaunuzrbtgvl gwslramfulb,goubgrbg.u
 upuzzu gbroogasiiuaagmvag.uulgvaaszu jggVgxzuvbgiklesuzkzgkpgwvabgbrfua
.kvabagbmvbgmugxvnugmragulufruagvagxzuvbgvlgrl siufulbgbkgoknugmrf,gva
mragpzrul ajggVl gmuzugqugpuuogvozuv tgakfuguppuibgkpgbmugpvnkszv.ou
rfwzuaarklgwzk siu gswklgkszgzu.uoorksagbkqlag.tgbmugiklbzvabg.ubquul
bmurzgzs ugbzuvbfulb,gvl gbmvbgkpgbmkaugqmrimgvzugoktvogbkgtksjgg uarzrlx
tkszgFvyuabtgvgmvwwrluaagfkzugbvlxr.ougvl gouaagmvdvz ksa,gvl gbmvbgtks
fvtg.ug.uoknu gzvbmuzgbmvlgpuvzu g.tgtkszgwukwou,gvl g.uorunrlxgbmvbgtksz
quopvzugvl gbmurzagvzugkpgluiuaarbtgclrbgbkxubmuz,gRgzuykriugbkgbmrlcgbmvb
bmugwzkxzuaagqmrimgtksgfvcugragklugbkqvz agfkzugwzvibriv.ougikl rbrklagkp
wuviu,gvagquoogvagbkqvz agnribkzt!

Arzu,gtkszgoubbuzgkpgbmugovabgkpgLknuf.uzgivfugbkgftgmvl gklotgysabglkq,
qmulgbmugbrfugqmrimgrbgwouvau gtksgbkglvfugpkzgfuubrlxgtksgvbgBkszagmv 
vozuv tgwvaau jggRgbvcugrbgvagvgarlxsovzgpvnkszgbmvbgtksgamkso gmvnu
 urxlu gbkg uarzugvgnrarbgpzkfgakgsauouaagvgwuzakl,g.sbgklugqmkgragqmkoot
tksza,gvl gfkzugakgunulg.tgvppuibrklgbmvlgpzkfg sbtjggTksgmvnugvibu gnuzt
ikfful v.otgrlgv vwbrlxgtkszauop,grlgbmugfvbbuzgkpguhbuzlvogpkzfa,gbk
tkszgluqgpkzbslua;g.sbgbmugwzuauznvbrklgkpgtkszgko gvppv.rorbtgvl 
pzvlcluaagrlgwzrnvbugrlbuzikszaugragulbrbou gbkgvlguesvogamvzugkpgwzvrauj
Tksgmvnugikl uaiul u gbkgbvcugbmksxmbgpkzgftgvxu,glkgouaagbmvlgpkzgbmu
 uarzugqmrimgRgmvnugbkgauugtks,gqmuzugtksgfvtg.ugvbgzuabgpzkfgbmuau
ov.kzrksagvxrbvbrklajggQrooglkbgbmvbg.ugakklgvbgWvzra,gArzu?ggvl gfvt
lkbmrlxgwzunulbgfugpzkfgwzuaulbrlxgftauopgbmuzu!--Tkszgnuztgmsf.ougvl 
nuztgk.u rulbgauznvlbgvl gas.yuib,
FKLBVRXLUj

PzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmrag18bmgkpgYvlsvztg[1590]j




HNj
Bkgbmugavfuj--[gBmragoubbuzgragvoakgrlgbmuglvbrklvogikoouibrkl,gvfklxgbmu
 swstgwvwuzajggRbgqvagprzabgwzrlbu grlgbmug“Ykszlvog ugo’Rlabzsibrkl
Ws.oresu,”g4bmgLknuf.uzg1846j]

ARZU,--Bmugoubbuzgqmrimgrbgwouvau gtkszgfvyuabtgbkgqzrbugbkgfugklgbmu
20bmgkpgYsot,gqvaglkbg uornuzu gbkgfugbroogbmragfkzlrlx,gvl gpksl gfu
ovr gswgqrbmgvgnuztgnrkoulbgbuzbrvlgvxsu,gvgikfwovrlbgnuztgikffklgrlgbmra
wvzbgkpgbmugikslbztg szrlxgbmugovabgfklbmjggArzu,gRgiklar uzgftauop
xzuvbotgmklkszu g.tgbmugzuiurwbgkpgtkszgikffvl a,gvl gRgmvnuglkbgkfrbbu 
bkgikffslrivbugbkgFjgbmugFvzamvog ugFvbrxlklgbmzuugbrfuagfkab
ufwmvbrivootgftgrlbulbrklgvl gk.orxvbrklgbkgwzkiuu gbkgmrf,gvl gunulgak
pvzgvagbkgrl rivbugbmugzksbug.tgqmrimgRgwzkwkau gbkgykrlgmrfgauizubot,grp
mugbmksxmbgwzkwuzjggMvnrlxgzuiurnu glkgvlaquz,gRgiklar uzgbmvbgmugmva
qurxmu gbmug rpprisobtgvl gzracgkpgbmugykszlutgbkgfujggArzu,gtkszgFvyuabt
 roog kgfugbmugpvnkszgbkg.uorunu,grpgtksgwouvau,gbmvbgRgamvooglunuz
ikfwovrlgkpgbmuguhwulaugklgkiivarklagqmuzugRgamkso glkbgmuarbvbugbk
 unkbugftgorpujggRgmvnuglunuzg uzrnu gvltgas.abvlbrvog.uluprbgqmvbunuz
pzkfgbmug.kslbtgkpgcrlxa,gqmrimgRgmvnuglurbmuzgaksxmbglkzgfuzrbu ;glkz
mvnugRgmv gvltgzuikfwulaugpkzgbmugauznriuagqmrimgRgmvnugwuzpkzfu gpkz
bmuf:gqmuzukpgtkszgfvyuabtgragrlgwvzbgvqvzujggQmvbgRgmvnug klugpkzgtksz
wzu uiuaakzagRgamvoog kgabroogfkzugzuv rotgpkzgtksjggRgvfgvagzrim,gArzu,
vagRg uarzugbkg.ujggQmulgRgamvoogmvnuguhmvsabu gftgwszaugrlgvbbul vliugkl
tkszgFvyuabtgvbgWvzra,gRgqroogbvcugbmugor.uzbtgbkgbuoogtks,gvl gbmul,grp
tksgamkso gzuxvz gfugvagqkzbmtgkpg.urlxgzubvrlu gvltgoklxuzgrlgtksz
asrbu,gtksgqroogprl gfugfkzugfk uabgrlgftgiovrfagswklgtksgbmvlgbmu
msf.ouabgkpgtkszgkppriuzaj

Arzu,gRgwzvtgXk gpkzgtkszgwzkawuzrbtgvl gmuvobmjggTkszgnuztgmsf.ougvl 
nuztgk.u rulbgauznvlbgvl gas.yuib,
FKLBVRXLUj

PzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmrag2 gkpgAuwbuf.uzg[1590]j




HNRj

BkgbmugXknuzlkzgkpgXsrulluj

FKLAURXLUSZ,--Rgmvnugzuiurnu gbmragfkzlrlxgtkszgoubbuz,gqmrimgRgmvnu
ikffslrivbu gbkgFjg ugXkszxsua,gvl gqugmvnug rlu gbkxubmuzgvbgbmugmksau
kpgFj[bmugfvtkz]gkpg.ksz uvshjggVagbkgbmugrliklnulruliugkpgbzvlawkzbrlx
bmugfklutglvfu grlgtkszgfufkzvl sf,gtksgauugmkqg rpprisobgvgbmrlxgrbgra
bkgwzknr ugpkz;g.sbgtksgfvtg.ugaszugbmvbgqugamvoogcuuwgvagiokaugvgqvbim
knuzgrbgvagwkaar.oujggRgsau gunuztguhuzbrklgbkg raiknuzgbmugfvlgkpgqmkf
tksgawkcujggMugmvaglkbg.uulgmuzu;gvl gFjg ug.kz uvshgmvagamkqlgfugv
oubbuzgrlgqmrimgmugfulbrklagbmvbgmugikso glkbgikfugbkgauugbmug rzuibkzgkp
.kz uvsh,gvagmugrlbul u ,gmvnrlxg.uulgrlpkzfu gbmvbgtksgfrabzsabgmrfj
Bmugoubbuzgragkpgbmug vtg.upkzugtuabuz vtjggRpgRgikso gmvnugpksl gmrf,gR
frxmbgwuzmvwagmvnugwszasu gbmugxulbouzgikszau,g.urlxgsliuzbvrlgkpgtksz
nruqa;g.sbgRgulbzuvbgtksglunuzbmuouaagbkgpuuoglkgfvlluzgkpg ks.bgbmvbgR
zupsaugbkgivzztgksbgvltgqramuagkpgtksza,gvl gbmvb,gqmuzugtkszgikffvl a
vzugikliuzlu ,gRgclkqglkg rabrlibrklgkpgwuzaklgkzgfvbbuzjggRgmkwugbmvb
tksgmvnugrlgXsrullugfvltgvagquoogvppuibu gbkgtksgvagRgvfjggBmutgzuwkzb
bmvbgbmugLvlbuagxvooutagvzugv nvlirlxgbkqvz ag.zksvxujggFjgbmugFvzamvog u
.rzklgmvaglkbgtubgoupbjggBmkaugqmkgquzugimvzxu gbkgiklnutgbmugfuaavxugbk
Fjg ’Sauugavtgbmvbgbmutgivllkbgprl gmrf;gvl gRg.uorunugbmvb,grpgmugmva
.uulgmuzu,gmugragakglkgoklxuzjggQugcuuwgvgnrxrovlbgutugklgkszgxvbuagvl 
xsvz a,gvl gqugokkcgvpbuzgbmufgvgorbbougfkzugvbbulbrnuotgrlgtkszgv.auliu,
qmrimgfvcuagfugvwwzumularnu,glkbgfuzuotgklgviikslbgkpgbmugwzuauznvbrklgkp
bmugbkql,g.sbgorcuqraugpkzgtkszgknulgavcu,gclkqrlxgbmvbgbmugulufruagkp
bmugcrlxgpuuogmkqgluiuaavztgtksgvzugbkgmragauznriu,gvl gmkqgroogqugamkso 
wzkawuzgqrbmksbgtksjggRgvfgvpzvr gbmvb,grlgbmugwvzbgqmuzugtksgvzu,gtks
qroog.ugknuzbvculg.tgakgfvltgvppvrzagzuesrzrlxgtkszgvbbulbrklgklgunuzt
ar u,gbmvbgrbgqroogbvcugtksgvgoklxgbrfugvl grlnkonugxzuvbg rpprisobt
.upkzugtksgmvnug rawkau gkpgunuztbmrlxjggRpgbmuzugragvltgrfwkzbvlbgluqa,
Rgqroog uawvbimgvlguhwzuaagvbgkliu,gvl gtksgfvtgiklios ugbmvbglkbmrlxgra
abrzzrlxgrpgtksg kglkbgmuvzgpzkfgfu:gvbgbmugavfugbrfug.uxxrlxgtksgbkg.uvz
rlgfrl gbmvbgfknufulbagkpgbmragcrl gvzugqklbgbkg.ugakgas  ulgvl 
sluhwuibu gbmvb,grpgbmutgkiisz,gbmutgqroogxzvawgfug.tgbmugbmzkvb,g.upkzu
bmutgavtgvgqkz jggRgqroog kgqmvbgRgivlgbkgikoouibgluqa,gvl gpkzgbmra
wszwkaugRgqroogfvcugvgwkrlbgkpgnrarbrlxgvl gauurlxgfulgkpgunuztgamv ugkp
kwrlrkljgg kqlgbkgbmugwzuaulbgbrfuglkbmrlxgragabrzzrlxjggFjg ugOkl uogmva
auulgfugbmragfkzlrlx,gvl gqugmvnug.uulgvzzvlxrlxgpkzgakfugv nvliuagpkz
bmugwoviu,gqmuzugRgamvoogxkgbk-fkzzkqgfkzlrlxjggArliugRg.uxvlgbmra
oubbuz,gRgmvnugouvzlbgpzkfgImvzbzushgbmvbgbqkgxulbouful,g uaizr.rlx
bmufauonuagvagrlgbmugauznriugkpgFjg ugXsrau,gvl gikfrlxgpzkfgVxul,gmvnu
wvaau gluvzgImvzbzush;g.sbgRgqvaglkbgv.ougbkgvaiuzbvrlgqmrimgzkv gbmut
mvnugbvculjggBmutgvzuguhwuibrlxgtksgvbgVxuljggBmugAruszg ugFvsnuarlgivfu
vagpvzgvagIvlbuoksw,gvl gbmuliugzubszlu ,gmvnrlxgxkbgakfugrlbuoorxuliuj
RgvfgrlgauvzimgkpgklugIvwbvrlgZksa,gbkgqmkfgjggjggjggqzkbu,gbztrlxgbk
 zvqgmrfgrlbkgmragivsaug.tgvoogakzbagkpgwzkfrauajggBmugzsfkszgkpgbmugbqk
Lvlbuagxvooutagzuv tgbkg uaiul gklg.zksvxugragiklprzfu gvagiuzbvrl;gbmut
ivzztgbqkgikfwvlruagkpgpkkbjggFjg ugFuziszugragvbgLvlbuajggBmugAruszg u
ovgIksz.ugavr gbkgFjgbmugWzuar ulbgLuafkl gbmvbgFjg ’Uo.uspgragklgbmra
ar ugkpgVlxruza,gvl gok xuagqrbmgmragpvbmuzjggMugrag zvqrlxgbkqvz agOkquz
Wkribksgqrbmg4000gpkkbgvl g400gkzg500gmkzau,gmvnrlxg.uulgzurlpkziu g.t
bmugbzkkwagkpgFjg ug.zraavigvl gkbmuza,gvl gFjg ugFuziszugragbkgykrlgmrfj
BmugzuwkzbgxkuagvoakgbmvbgFjg sgFvrlugragv.ksbgbkgbvcugbmugikffvl gkpgvoo
bmugpkziuagbmutgmvnugikoouibu grlgVsnuzxlu,gvl gbmvbgmugqroogizkaagOu
Pkzubgbkgv nvliugklgZksuzxsugvl gsa,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gklgbmugCrlxgkp
Lvnvzzu,gvxvrlabgqmkfgvoogbmragrag.urlxg rzuibu jggFjg ugOvlavigragvb
.kszx,gvl gmvagbqkgqvzgnuaauoa,gqmrimgzufvrlgrlgvbbul vliugklgmrfjggMra
pslibrklagvzuglvnvojggRgbuoogtksgqmvbgRgouvzl,gvl gfrhgswgbkxubmuzgbmu
fkzugkzgouaagwzk.v.ougmuvzavtgkpgbmugbkqlgqrbmgvibsvogfvbbuzgkpgpvib,
bmvbgtksgfvtg.ugrlgwkaauaarklgkpgunuztbmrlxjggRg.uxgtksgfkabgmsf.otgbk
zubszlg rzuibotgvppvrzagfvtgvookqgtksgbkg kgak,gvl gvaaszugtksgbmvb,
fuvlqmrou,gqugamvooglkbgawvzugkszgov.ksz,gkzg(rpgbmvbgquzugluiuaavzt)gksz
orpu,gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmugcrlx’agvsbmkzrbtgbmzksxmksbjggFklaurxlusz,gRgcraa
tkszgmvl agnuztgzuawuibpsoot,gvl gwzvtgXk gbkgmvnugtksgrlgMragcuuwrlxj
Pzkfg.kz uvsh,gQu lua vtglrxmb,g22 gFvtg(1590-91)j--Tkszgnuztgmsf.ou
auznvlb,

FKLBVRXLUj

RgmvnugauulglkgklugpzkfgbmugcrlxgkpgLvnvzzu;gbmutgavtgbmvbgFjg ug.rzkl
mvagauulgmrfj






ggggggggggggBMUgVSBMKZgBKgBMUgZUV UZj--[Kfrbbu g.tgIkbbklj]

ZUV UZ,gbmksgmvabgmuzugvlgmkluabg.kkc;grbg kbmgvbgbmugksbaubgpkzuqvzl
bmuugbmvb,grlgiklbzrnrlxgbmugavfu,gRgmvnugwzkwkau gbkgftauopglkgkbmuz
bmvlgvg kfuabrigvl gwzrnvbugul :gRgmvnugmv glkgiklar uzvbrklgvbgvoo
urbmuzgbkgbmtgauznriugkzgbkgftgxokztjggFtgwkquzagvzuglkbgivwv.ougkpgvlt
asimg uarxljggRgmvnug u rivbu grbgbkgbmugwvzbrisovzgikffk rbtgkpgft
crlapkocgvl gpzrul a,gakgbmvb,gmvnrlxgokabgfug(qmrimgbmutgfsabg k
amkzbot),gbmutgfvtgbmuzurlgzuiknuzgakfugbzvrbagkpgftgikl rbrklagvl 
msfksza,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagwzuauznugfkzugqmkou,gvl gfkzugorpu-orcu,gbmu
clkqou xugbmutgmv gkpgfujggMv gftgrlbulbrklg.uulgbkgauucgbmugqkzo ’a
pvnksz,gRgamkso gaszuotgmvnugv kzlu gftauopgqrbmg.kzzkqu g.uvsbrua:gR
 uarzugbmuzurlgbkg.ugnruqu gvagRgvwwuvzgrlgfrlugkqlgxulsrlu,garfwou,gvl 
kz rlvztgfvlluz,gqrbmksbgabs tgvl gvzbrpriu:gpkzgrbgragftauopgRgwvrlbj
Ftg upuibagvzugbmuzurlgbkg.ugzuv gbkgbmugorpu,gvl gvltgrfwuzpuibrklagvl 
ftglvbszvogpkzf,gakgpvzgvagws.origzunuzuliugmvbmgwuzfrbbu gfujggRpgRgmv 
ornu gvfklxgbmkauglvbrkla,gqmrimg(bmutgavt)gtubg quoogsl uzgbmugaquub
or.uzbtgkpglvbszu’agwzrfrbrnugovqa,gRgvaaszugbmuugRgqkso gfkabgqroorlxot
mvnugwvrlbu gftauopgesrbugpsootgvl gesrbuglvcu jggBmsa,gzuv uz,gftauopgvf
bmugfvbbuzgkpgftg.kkc:gbmuzu’aglkgzuvaklgbmksgamkso abgufwoktgbmtgouraszu
v.ksbgakgpzrnkoksagvl gnvrlgvgas.yuibjgggBmuzupkzugpvzuquooj

PzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmug12bmgYslug1580--[Akgrlgbmugu rbrklgkpg1595;gbmu
u rbrklgkpg1588gmvag12bmgYslug1588]



PzkfgFklbvrxlu,gbmug1abgFvzimg1580j

ggggg--[Auug.kllupkl,gFklbvrxlu,g1893,gwjg254jggBmug.kkcgmv g.uul
gggggoriulau gpkzgbmugwzuaagklgbmug9bmgFvtgwzunrksajggBmugu rbrklgkpg1588
gggggmvag12bmgYslug1588;]--




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVzbagkpgwuzasvarkl,gbkgrlarlsvbugrbgrlbkgkszgfrl a
gggggMuow:glkgkbmuzguppuibgbmvlgbmvbgkpgoulxbmulrlxgftgasppuzrlx
gggggYs xfulbgkpgxzuvbgbmrlxagragfvltgbrfuagpkzfu gpzkfgouaauzgbmrlx
gggggKwbrklglkqgkpgiklbrlsrlxgrlgorpugkzgkpgikfwoubrlxgbmugnktvxu
gggggBqkgwzrlirwvogxsr rlxgzurlagvzugzuqvz gvl gwslramfulb
gggggNrzbsugvl gvf.rbrkl,gslpkzbslvbuot,gauo kfgok xugbkxubmuz






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



.KKCgBMUgPRZAB

IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg2j

RjggggggggBmvbgFulg.tgNvzrksagQvtagVzzrnugvbgbmugAvfugUl j
RRjgggggggKpgAkzzkqj
RRRjggggggBmvbgkszgvppuibrklagivzztgbmufauonuag.utkl gsaj
RNjgggggggBmvbgbmugaksog raimvzxuagmuzgwvaarklagswklgpvoaugk.yuiba,gqmuzu
ggggggggggbmugbzsugvzugqvlbrlxj
NjggggggggQmubmuzgbmugxknuzlkzgkpgvgwoviug.uaruxu gksxmbgmrfauopgbkgxk
ggggggggggksbgbkgwvzoutj
NRjgggggggBmvbgbmugmkszgkpgwvzoutgrag vlxuzksaj
NRRjggggggBmvbgbmugrlbulbrklgragys xugkpgkszgvibrklaj
NRRRjgggggKpgr ouluaaj
RHjgggggggKpgorvzaj
HjggggggggKpgesricgkzgaokqgawuuimj
HRjgggggggKpgwzkxlkabrivbrklaj
HRRjggggggKpgiklabvlitj



IMVWBUZgR

BMVBgFULg.TgNVZRKSAgQVTAgVZZRNUgVBgBMUgAVFUgUL j

Bmugfkabgsasvogqvtgkpgvwwuvarlxgbmugrl rxlvbrklgkpgasimgvagqugmvnugvlt
qvtgkppul u ,gqmulgqugauugbmufgrlgwkaauaarklgkpgbmugwkquzgkpgzunulxu,
vl gprl gbmvbgqugv.akosbuotgorugvbgbmurzgfuzit,grag.tgas.fraarkl,gbkgfknu
bmufgbkgikffrauzvbrklgvl gwrbt;gvl gtubg.zvnuzt,giklabvlit,gvl 
zuakosbrkl,gmkqunuzgesrbugiklbzvztgfuvla,gmvnugakfubrfuagauznu gbk
wzk siugbmugavfuguppuibj--[Pokzrk’agnuzarklg.uxrlagbmsa:g“Bmugfkab
nasvoogqvrugbkgvwwuvaugbmkaugfrl agquugmvnugkppul u ,gqmulgzunulxugorua
rlgbmurzgmvl a,gvl gbmvbgqugabvl gvbgbmurzgfuziru,grag.tgas.fraarklgbk
fknugbmufgbkgikffrauzvbrklgvl gwrbt:gLunuzbmuouaa,gikszvxu,giklabvliru,
vl gzuakosbrklg(fuvlagvobkxubmuzgkwwkarbu)gmvnugakfubrfuagqzksxmbgbmu
avfuguppuibj”--]g[BmugawuoorlxgragPokzrk’ag jQj]

U qvz ,gWzrliugkpgQvouag[U qvz ,gbmug.ovicgWzrliujgg jQj]g(bmugavfugqmk
akgoklxgxknuzlu gkszgXsrullu,gvgwuzaklvxugqmkaugikl rbrklgvl gpkzbslu
mvnugrlgbmufgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmugfkabglkbv.ougvl gfkabgiklar uzv.ougwvzba
kpgxzvl usz),gmvnrlxg.uulgmrxmotgrliulau g.tgbmugOrfksarla,gvl gbvcrlx
bmurzgirbtg.tgvaavsob,gqvaglkb,gurbmuzg.tgbmugizruagkpgbmugwukwou,gkzgbmu
wzvtuzagvl gbuvzagkpgbmugqkfulgvl gimro zul,gv.vl klu gbkgaovsxmbuzgvl 
wzkabzvbugvbgmragpuubgpkzgfuzit,gbkg.ugabvtu gpzkfgwzkauisbrlxgmra
zunulxu;gbroo,gwulubzvbrlxgpszbmuzgrlbkgbmugbkql,gmugvbgovabgbkkcglkbriu
kpgbmzuugPzulimgxulbouful,--[BmuaugquzugYuvlg ugNrooufszu,gMsxmg ugov
Zkimu,gvl gZkxuzg ug.uvspkzbj--Pzkraavzb,grjgijg289jg{Bmugirbtgqva
Orfkxuajgg jQj}]--qmkgqrbmgrlizu r.oug.zvnuztgvoklugasabvrlu gbmugwkquz
kpgmragnribkzrksagvzftjggBmulgrbgqvagbmvbgiklar uzvbrklgvl gzuawuibgslbk
akgzufvzcv.ougvgnvokszgprzabgabkwwu gbmugbkzzulbgkpgmragpszt,gvl gbmvb
mragioufulit,g.uxrllrlxgqrbmgbmuaugbmzuugivnvoruza,gqvagvpbuzqvz a
uhbul u gbkgvoogbmugzufvrlrlxgrlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmugirbtj

Aivl uz.ux,gWzrliugkpgUwrzsa,gwszasrlxgklugkpgmragako ruzagqrbmgwszwkau
bkgcroogmrf,gbmugako ruz,gmvnrlxgrlgnvrlgbzru g.tgvoogbmugqvtagkp
msfrorbtgvl gaswworivbrklgbkgvwwuvaugmrf,gzuakonu ,gvagmragovabgzupsxu,
bkgpviugv.ksbgvl gvqvrbgmrfgaqkz grlgmvl :gqmrimg.umvnrkszgkpgmragxvnugv
as  ulgabkwgbkgmragivwbvrl’agpszt,gqmk,gpkzgauurlxgmrfgvaasfugakglkbv.ou
vgzuakosbrkl,gzuiurnu gmrfgrlbkgxzviu;gvlguhvfwou,gmkqunuz,gbmvbgfrxmb
asppuzgvlkbmuzgrlbuzwzubvbrklgqrbmgasimgvagmvnuglkbgzuv gkpgbmu
wzk rxrksagpkziugvl gnvokszgkpgbmvbgwzrliuj

BmugUfwuzkzgIklzv gRRRjgmvnrlxg.uaruxu gXsuowm,g scugkpg.vnvzrv,--[Rl
1140,grlgQurla.uzx,gSwwuzg.vnvzrvj]--qkso glkbg.ugwzunvrou gswkl,gqmvb
fuvlgvl gslfvlotgavbrapvibrklagakunuzgquzugbul uzu gbkgmrf,gbkgikl uaiul 
bkgfro uzgikl rbrklagbmvlgbmvbgbmugov ruagvl gxulbouqkfulgklotgqmkgquzu
rlgbmugbkqlgqrbmgbmug scugfrxmbgxkgksbgqrbmksbgnrkovbrklgkpgbmurzgmklksz,
klgpkkb,gvl gqrbmgakgfsimgklotgvagbmutgikso givzztgv.ksbgbmufjggQmuzuswkl
bmut,gksbgkpgfvxlvlrfrbtgkpgmuvzb,gwzuaulbotgiklbzrnu gbkgivzztgksb,gswkl
bmurzgamkso uza,gbmurzgmsa.vl agvl gimro zul,gvl gbmug scugmrfauop;
vgarxmbgvbgqmrimgbmugufwuzkzgqvagakgwouvau ,gbmvb,gzvnramu gqrbmgbmu
xuluzkarbtgkpgbmugvibrkl,gmugquwbgpkzgykt,gvl grffu rvbuotguhbrlxsramrlx
rlgmragmuvzbgbmugfkzbvogvl givwrbvogmvbzu gmugmv gikliurnu gvxvrlabgbmra
 scu,gmugpzkfgbmvbgbrfugpkzqvz gbzuvbu gmrfgvl gmragqrbmgvoogmsfvlrbtj
Bmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgkpgbmuaugbqkgqvtagqkso gqrbmgxzuvbgpvirorbtgqkzc
swklgftglvbszu;gpkzgRgmvnugvgfvznuooksagwzkwularbtgbkgfuzitgvl gfro luaa,
vl gbkgasimgvg uxzuugbmvbgRgpvlitgkpgbmugbqkgRgamkso gakkluzgaszzul uzgft
vlxuzgbkgikfwvaarklgbmvlgbkguabuufjggVl gtubgwrbtgragzuwsbu gvgnriu
vfklxabgbmugAbkria,gqmkgqroogbmvbgqugasiikszgbmugvpporibu ,g.sbglkbgbmvb
qugamkso g.ugakgvppuibu gqrbmgbmurzgasppuzrlxagvagbkgasppuzgqrbmgbmufj
Rgikliurnu gbmuauguhvfwouaglkbgroogasrbu gbkgbmugesuabrklgrlgmvl ,gvl 
bmugzvbmuzg.uivsaugbmuzurlgqugk.auznugbmuaugxzuvbgaksoagvaavsobu gvl 
bzru g.tgbmuaugbqkgaunuzvogqvta,gbkgzuarabgbmugklugqrbmksbgzuoulbrlx,gvl 
bkg.ugamkkcgvl gas.yuibu g.tgbmugkbmuzjggRbgfvtg.ugbzsugbmvbgbkgasppuzgv
fvl’agmuvzbgbkg.ugbkbvootgas. su g.tgikfwvaarklgfvtg.ugrfwsbu gbk
pvirorbt,guppufrlvit,gvl gknuz-bul uzluaa;gqmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaagbmvb
bmugquvcuzglvbszua,gvagkpgqkful,gimro zul,gvl gbmugikffklgakzbgkpgwukwou,
vzugbmugfkabgas.yuibgbkgrbg.sbgvpbuzgmvnrlxgzuarabu gvl g ra vrlu gbmu
wkquzgkpgxzkvlagvl gbuvza,gbkgtruo gbkgbmugakougzunuzuliugkpgbmugavizu 
rfvxugkpgNvoksz,gbmragivlg.uglkgkbmuzgbmvlgbmuguppuibgkpgvgabzklxgvl 
rlpouhr.ougaksogulvfkszu gkpgvl gmklkszrlxgfvaisorlugvl gk.abrlvbu
ikszvxujggLunuzbmuouaa,gvabklramfulbgvl gv frzvbrklgfvt,grlgouaagxuluzksa
frl a,g.uxubgvgorcuguppuib:gqrbluaagbmugwukwougkpgBmu.ua,gqmk,gmvnrlxgwsb
bqkgkpgbmurzgxuluzvoagswklgbzrvogpkzgbmurzgornuagpkzgmvnrlxgiklbrlsu grl
vzfag.utkl gbmugwzuiraugbuzfgkpgbmurzgikffraarkl,gnuztgmvz otgwvz klu 
Wuokwr va,gqmk,g.kqrlxgsl uzgbmugqurxmbgkpgakg vlxuzksagvlgviisavbrkl,
fv uglkgfvlluzgkpg upuliugpkzgmrfauop,glkzgwzk siu gkbmuzgvzxsfulbagbmvl
wzvtuzagvl gaswworivbrkla;gqmuzuva,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gUwvfrlkl va,gpvoorlx
bkgzuikslbgfvxlrokesulbotgbmuguhwokrbagmugmv gwuzpkzfu grlgbmurzgauznriu,
vl ,gvpbuzgvgmvsxmbtgvl gvzzkxvlbgfvlluzgzuwzkvimrlxgbmufgqrbm
rlxzvbrbs ugvl grlysabriu,gbmutgmv glkbgbmugmuvzbgbkgwzkiuu gvltgpszbmuz
rlgmragbzrvo,g.sbg.zkcugswgbmugikszbgvl g uwvzbu ,gbmugqmkougvaauf.ot
mrxmotgikfful rlxgbmugmrxmgikszvxugkpgbmragwuzaklvxuj--[Wosbvzim,gMkq
pvzgvgFvlgfvtgwzvraugMrfauop,gijg5j]

 rkltarsagbmuguo uz,gvpbuzgmvnrlx,g.tgvgbu rksagaruxugvl gbmzksxm
uhiuu rlxgxzuvbg rpprisobrua,gbvculgbmugirbtgkpgZuxxrk,gvl grlgrbgbmu
xknuzlkzgWmtbkl,gvgnuztgxvoovlbgfvl,gqmkgmv gfv ugakgk.abrlvbugvg upuliu,
qvagzuakonu gbkgfvcugmrfgvgbzvxrivoguhvfwougkpgmragzunulxu:grlgkz uz
qmuzuslbkgmugprzabgbko gmrf,g“Bmvbgmugmv gbmug vtg.upkzugivsau gmragakl
vl gvoogmragcrl zu gbkg.ug zkqlu j”ggBkgqmrimgWmtbklgzubszlu glkgkbmuz
vlaquzg.sbgbmra:g“Bmvbgbmutgquzugbmulg.tgklug vtgmvwwruzgbmvlgmuj”ggVpbuz
qmrim,givsarlxgmrfgbkg.ugabzrwwu ,gvl g uornuzrlxgmrfgrlbkgbmugmvl agkp
bmugbkzfulbkza,gmugqvag.tgbmufglkbgklotg zvxxu gbmzksxmgbmugabzuubagkp
bmugbkql,gvl gfkabgrxlkfrlrksaotgvl gizsuootgqmrwwu ,g.sbgfkzuknuz
nrorpru gqrbmgfkabg.rbbuzgvl giklbsfuorksagovlxsvxu:gtubgabroogmu
fvrlbvrlu gmragikszvxugulbrzugvoogbmugqvt,gqrbmgvgabzklxgnkriugvl 
sl vslbu gikslbulvliugwzkiovrfrlxgbmugmklkszv.ougvl gxokzrksagivsaugkp
mrag uvbm;glvfuot,gpkzgbmvbgmugqkso glkbg uornuzgswgmragikslbztgrlbkgbmu
mvl agkpgvgbtzvlb;gvbgbmugavfugbrfug ulkslirlxgvxvrlabgmrfgvgawuu t
imvabraufulbgpzkfgbmugkppul u gxk ajggVbgqmrimg rkltarsa,gzuv rlxgrlgmra
ako ruza’gokkca,gbmvbgrlabuv gkpg.urlxgrliulau gvbgbmugmvsxmbtgovlxsvxu
kpgbmragiklesuzu guluft,gbkgbmugiklbufwbgkpgbmurzgivwbvrlgvl gmra
bzrsfwm,gbmutgquzuglkbgklotgabzsicgqrbmgv frzvbrklgkpgakgzvzugvgnrzbsu,
.sbgfkzuknuzgrliorlu gbkgfsbrlt,gvl gquzugunulgzuv tgbkgzuaisugbmu
wzrakluzgksbgkpgbmugmvlxfvl’agmvl a,gmugivsau gbmugbkzbszrlxgbkgiuvau,
vl gvpbuzqvz agwzrnvbuotgivsau gmrfgbkg.ugbmzkqlgrlbkgbmugauvj--[ rk j
Arij,ghrnjg29j]

Fvlg(rlgxkk guvzluab)gragvgfvznuooksagnvrl,gpricou,gvl gslabv.ougas.yuib,
vl gklgqmkfgrbgragnuztgmvz gbkgpkzfgvltgiuzbvrlgvl gslrpkzfgys xfulbj
PkzgWkfwutgikso gwvz klgbmugqmkougirbtgkpgbmugFvfuzbrlua,gbmksxm
pszrksaotgrliulau gvxvrlabgrb,gswklgbmugarlxougviikslbgkpgbmugnrzbsugvl 
fvxlvlrfrbtgkpgklugirbrdul,gDulk,--[WosbvzimgivooagmrfgAbmulk,gvl gvoak
Abmuflsagvl gAbmulra]--qmkgbkkcgbmugpvsobgkpgbmugws.origqmkootgswkl
mrfauop;glurbmuzgulbzuvbu gkbmuzgpvnksz,g.sbgvoklugbkgsl uzxkgbmu
wslramfulbgpkzgvoo:gvl gtubgAtoov’agmkab,gmvnrlxgrlgbmugirbtgkpgWuzsxrv
--[WosbvzimgavtagWzuluabu,gvgbkqlgkpgOvbrsfj]--fvlrpuabu gbmugavfu
nrzbsu,gk.bvrlu glkbmrlxg.tgrb,gurbmuzgpkzgmrfauopgkzgmra
puookq-irbrdulaj

Vl ,g rzuibotgiklbzvztgbkgftgprzabguhvfwoua,gbmug.zvnuabgkpgvoogful,gvl 
qmkgqvagzuwsbu gakgxzvirksagbkgvoogbmkaugmugknuzivfu,gVouhvl uz,gmvnrlx,
vpbuzgfvltgxzuvbg rpprisobrua,gpkziu gbmugirbtgkpgXvdv,gvl ,gulbuzrlx,
pksl g.ubra,gqmkgikffvl u gbmuzu,gvl gkpgqmkaugnvokszgrlgbmugbrfugkpgbmra
aruxugmugmv gfkabgfvznuooksagfvlrpuabgwzkkp,gvoklu,gpkzavculg.tgvoogmra
ako ruza,gmragvzfkszgmvicu gvl gmuqu gbkgwruiua,giknuzu gvoogknuzgqrbm
.okk gvl gqksl a,gvl gtubgabroogprxmbrlxgrlgbmugizkq gkpgvglsf.uzgkp
Fviu klrvla,gqmkgquzugovtrlxgklgmrfgklgvoogar ua,gmugavr gbkgmrf,glubbou 
vbgakg uvz-.ksxmbgvgnribkztg(pkz,grlgv  rbrklgbkgbmugkbmuzg vfvxu,gmugmv 
bqkgqksl agluqotgzuiurnu grlgmragkqlgwuzakl),g“Bmksgamvobglkbg ru,g.ubra,
vagbmksg kabgrlbul ;g.ugaszugbmksgamvoogasppuzgvoogbmugbkzfulbagbmvbgivl
.ugrlporibu gklgvgivwbrnuj”ggBkgqmrimgfulviugbmugkbmuzgzubszlrlxglkgkbmuz
vlaquz,g.sbgklotgvgpruziugvl g ra vrlpsogokkc;g“Qmvb,”gavtagVouhvl uz,
k.auznrlxgmragmvsxmbtgvl gk.abrlvbugarouliu,g“ragmugbkkgabrppgbkg.ul gv
cluu!ggRagmugbkkgwzks gbkgsbbuzgklugaswworvlbgqkz !ggBzsot,gRgqroo
iklesuzgbmragarouliu;gvl grpgRgivllkbgpkziugvgqkz gpzkfgmragfksbm,gR
qroo,gvbgouvab,guhbzvibgvgxzkvlgpzkfgmragmuvzbj”ggVl gbmuzuswkl
iklnuzbrlxgmragvlxuzgrlbkgpszt,gwzuaulbotgikffvl u gmragmuuoagbkg.ug.kzu 
bmzksxm,givsarlxgmrf,gvornu,gbkg.ug zvxxu ,gfvlxou ,gvl g rafuf.uzu gvbgv
ivzb’agbvroj--[EsrlbsagIszbrsa,grnjg6jggBmragvibgkpgizsuobtgmvag.uul
 ks.bu ,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmugabvbufulbgkpgIszbrsaj]--Qvagrbgbmvbgbmu
murxmbgkpgikszvxugqvagakglvbszvogvl gpvfrorvzgbkgbmragiklesuzkz,gbmvb
.uivsaugmugikso glkbgv frzu,gmugzuawuibu grbgbmugouaa?ggKzgqvagrbgbmvbgmu
ikliurnu gnvokszgbkg.ugvgnrzbsugakgwuisorvzgbkgmrfauop,gbmvbgmragwzr u
ikso glkb,gqrbmksbgulnt,gul szugrbgrlgvlkbmuz?ggKzgqvagrbgbmvbgbmu
lvbszvogrfwubskarbtgkpgmragpsztgqvagrlivwv.ougkpgkwwkarbrkl?ggIuzbvrlot,
mv grbg.uulgivwv.ougkpgfk uzvbrkl,grbgragbkg.ug.uorunu gbmvbgrlgbmugavic
vl g uakovbrklgkpgBmu.ua,gbkgauugakgfvltgnvorvlbgful,gokabgvl gbkbvoot
 uabrbsbugkpgvltgpszbmuzg upuliu,gizsuootgfvaavizu g.upkzugmragutua,
qkso gmvnugvwwuvau grb:gqmuzugbmuzugquzugv.knugarhgbmksavl gwsbgbkgbmu
aqkz ,gkpgqmkfglkbgklugqvagauulgbkgpot,gkzgmuvz gbkgiztgksbgpkzgesvzbuz;
.sb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gunuztgklugzsllrlxgmuzugvl gbmuzugbkgauucgksbgvl gbk
wzknkcugbmugnribkzrksaguluftgbkgmuowgbmufgbkgvlgmklkszv.ougul jggLkbgklu
qvagauulgqmk,gmkqunuzgquvculu gqrbmgqksl a,g r glkbgrlgmragovabgxvawgtub
ul uvnkszgbkgzunulxugmrfauop,gvl gqrbmgvoogbmugvzfagkpgvg.zvnug uawvrz,
bkgaquubulgmragkqlg uvbmgrlgbmug uvbmgkpgvlguluftjggTubg r gbmurzgnvoksz
izuvbuglkgwrbt,gvl gbmugoulxbmgkpgklug vtgqvaglkbgulksxmgbkgavbrvbugbmu
bmrzabgkpgbmugiklesuzkz’agzunulxu,g.sbgbmugaovsxmbuzgiklbrlsu gbkgbmu
ovabg zkwgkpg.okk gbmvbgqvagivwv.ougkpg.urlxgamu ,gvl gabkwwu glkbgbroo
rbgfubgqrbmglklug.sbgslvzfu gwuzakla,gko gful,gqkful,gvl gimro zul,gkp
bmufgbkgivzztgvqvtgbkgbmuglsf.uzgkpgbmrzbtgbmksavl gaovnuaj




IMVWBUZgRR

KPgAKZZKQ

LkgfvlgornrlxgragfkzugpzuugpzkfgbmragwvaarklgbmvlgR,gqmkgtubglurbmuzgorcu
rbgrlgftauopglkzgv frzugrbgrlgkbmuza,gvl gtubgxuluzvootgbmugqkzo ,gvagv
aubbou gbmrlx,gragwouvau gbkgxzviugrbgqrbmgvgwvzbrisovzguabuuf,giokbmrlx
bmuzuqrbmgqra kf,gnrzbsu,gvl giklairuliujggPkkoramgvl gakz r gxsrau!
--[“LkgfvlgragfkzugpzuugpzkfgbmragwvaarklgbmvlgR,gpkzgRglurbmuzgoknuglkz
zuxvz grb:gvo.urbgbmugqkzo gmvbmgsl uzbvcul,gvagrbgquzugswklgiknulvlb,gbk
xzviugrbgqrbmgvgwvzbrisovzgpvnkszjggBmuzuqrbmgbmutgv kzlugvxu,gnuzbsu,
vl giklairuliujggKmgpkkoramgvl g.vaugkzlvfulb!”ggPokzrk,g1613,gwjg3]
--BmugRbvorvlagmvnugfkzugprbotg.vwbrdu g.tgbmraglvfu--[Ovgbzrabuddv]--
fvorxlrbt;gpkzg‘bragvgesvorbtgvoqvtagmszbpso,gvoqvtagr ougvl gnvrl;gvl 
vag.urlxgikqvz ot,gfuvl,gvl g.vau,grbgrag.tgbmugAbkriaguhwzuaaotgvl 
wvzbrisovzotgpkz.r  ulgbkgbmurzgavxuaj

.sbgbmugabkzt--[Muzk kbsa,grrrjgg14j]--avtagbmvbgWavffulrbsa,gCrlxgkp
Uxtwb,g.urlxg upuvbu gvl gbvculgwzrakluzg.tgIvf.taua,gCrlxgkpgWuzarv,
auurlxgmragkqlg vsxmbuzgwvaag.tgmrfgvagwzrakluz,gvl grlgvgqzubimu gmv.rb,
qrbmgvg.sicubgbkg zvqgqvbuz,gbmksxmgmragpzrul agv.ksbgmrfgquzugak
ikliuzlu gvagbkg.zuvcgksbgrlbkgbuvzagvl govfulbvbrkla,gtubgmugmrfauop
zufvrlu gslfknu ,gqrbmksbgsbbuzrlxgvgqkz ,gmragutuagprhu gswklgbmu
xzksl ;gvl gauurlx,gfkzuknuz,gmragaklgrffu rvbuotgvpbuzgou gbkguhuisbrkl,
abroogfvrlbvrlu gbmugavfugikslbulvliu;gbroogawtrlxgvbgovabgklugkpgmra
 kfuabrigvl gpvfrorvzgpzrul ag zvxxu gvqvtgvfklxabgbmugivwbrnua,gmugpuoo
bkgbuvzrlxgmragmvrzgvl g.uvbrlxgmrag.zuvab,gqrbmgvoogbmugkbmuz
uhbzvnvxvliuagkpguhbzufugakzzkqj

Vgabkztgbmvbgfvtgnuztgprbotg.ugikswou gqrbmgvlkbmuzgkpgbmugavfugcrl ,gkp
zuiulbg vbu,gkpgvgwzrliugkpgkszgkqlglvbrkl,gqmkg.urlxgvbgBzulb,gvl 
mvnrlxgluqagbmuzug.zksxmbgmrfgkpgbmug uvbmgkpgmraguo uzg.zkbmuz,gv
.zkbmuzgklgqmkfg uwul u gbmugqmkougaswwkzbgvl gmklkszgkpgmragmksau,gvl 
akklgvpbuzgkpgbmvbgkpgvgtkslxuzg.zkbmuz,gbmugauikl gmkwugkpgmragpvfrot,
vl gmvnrlxgqrbmabkk gbmuaugbqkgvaavsobagqrbmgvlguhufwovztgzuakosbrkl;gklu
kpgmragauznvlbagmvwwulrlxgvgpuqg vtagvpbuzgbkg ru,gmugasppuzu gmra
iklabvlitgbkg.ugknuzikfug.tgbmragovabgviir ulb;gvl ,gwvzbrlxgqrbmgmra
ikszvxu,gakgv.vl klu gmrfauopgbkgakzzkqgvl gfkszlrlx,gbmvbgakfugbmuliu
quzugpkzqvz gbkgiklios ugbmvbgmugqvagklotgbksimu gbkgbmugesricg.tgbmra
ovabgabzkcugkpgpkzbslu;g.sb,grlgbzsbm,grbgqva,gbmvbg.urlxg.upkzug.zrfpso
kpgxzrup,gbmugouvabgv  rbrklgknuzpokqu gbmug.ksl agkpgvoogwvbruliuj
Qmrim,gRgbmrlc,gfrxmbgvoakg.ugavr gkpgbmugpkzfuzguhvfwou,g r glkbgbmu
abkztgwzkiuu gbkgbuoogsagbmvbgIvf.tauagvacrlxgWavffulrbsa,g“Qmt,glkb
.urlxgfknu gvbgbmugivovfrbtgkpgmragaklgvl g vsxmbuz,gmugamkso gqrbmgak
xzuvbgrfwvbruliug.uvzgbmugfrapkzbslugkpgmragpzrul ?”gg“Rbgra,”gvlaquzu 
mu,g“.uivsaugklotgbmragovabgvpporibrklgqvagbkg.ugfvlrpuabu g.tgbuvza,gbmu
bqkgprzabgpvzguhiuu rlxgvoogfvlluzgkpguhwzuaarklj”

Vl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gakfubmrlxgorcugbmragfrxmbg.ugqkzcrlxgrlgbmugpvlitgkp
bmugvlirulbgwvrlbuz,--[Iriuzk,g ugKzvbkzj,gijg22g;gWorlt,ghhhnjg10j]--
qmkgmvnrlx,grlgbmugavizrpriugkpgRwmrxulrv,gbkgzuwzuaulbgbmugakzzkqgkpgbmu
vaarabvlbagwzkwkzbrklv.otgbkgbmugaunuzvog uxzuuagkpgrlbuzuabgunuztgklu
mv grlgbmug uvbmgkpgbmragpvrzgrllkiulbgnrzxrl,gvl gmvnrlx,grlgbmugkbmuz
prxszua,govr gksbgbmugsbfkabgwkquzgkpgmragvzb,gqmulgmugivfugbkgbmvbgkp
muzgpvbmuz,gmug zuqgmrfgqrbmgvgnurogknuzgmragpviu,gfuvlrlxgbmuzu.tgbmvb
lkgcrl gkpgikslbulvliugqvagivwv.ougkpguhwzuaarlxgasimgvg uxzuugkpgakzzkqj
Qmrimgragvoakgbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugwkubagpurxlgbmugfrauzv.ougfkbmuz,gLrk.u,
mvnrlxgprzabgokabgaunulgakla,gvl gbmulgvpbuzqvz agvagfvltg vsxmbuza
(knuzqmuofu gqrbmgmuzgokaaua),gbkgmvnug.uulgvbgovabgbzvlapkzfu grlbkgv
zkic--

ggggggggggggggg“ rzrxsraaugfvora,”

ggggg[“Wubzrpru gqrbmgmuzgfrapkzbsluaj”--Knr ,gFubj,gnrjg304j]

bmuzu.tgbkguhwzuaagbmvbgfuovlimkori,g sf.,gvl g uvpgabswupvibrkl,gqmrim
.ulsf.agvoogkszgpvisobrua,gqmulgkwwzuaau gqrbmgviir ulbagxzuvbuzgbmvlgqu
vzugv.ougbkg.uvzjggVl ,grl uu ,gbmugnrkouliugvl grfwzuaarklgkpgvl
uhiuaarnugxzrupgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgvabklramgbmugakso,gvl gqmkootg uwzrnu
muzgkpgmuzgkz rlvztgpslibrkla:gvagrbgmvwwulagbkgunuztgklugkpgsa,gqmk,
swklgvltgas  ulgvovzfgkpgnuztgroogluqa,gprl gkszauonuagaszwzrau ,
abswupru ,gvl grlgvgfvlluzg uwzrnu gkpgvoogwkquzgkpgfkbrkl,gakgbmvbgbmu
akso,g.uxrllrlxgbkgnulbgrbauopgrlgbuvzagvl govfulbvbrkla,gauufagbkgpzuu
vl g raulxvxugrbauopgpzkfgbmugas  ulgkwwzuaarkl,gvl gbkgmvnugk.bvrlu 
akfugzkkfgbkgqkzcgrbauopgksbgvbgxzuvbuzgor.uzbtj

gggggggggg“Ubgnrvgnrhgbvl ufgnkirgovhvbvg kokzuguabj”

ggggg[“Vl gvbgoulxbmgvl gqrbmg rpprisobtgragvgwvaavxugkwulu g.tgxzrupgpkz
gggggsbbuzvliuj”--VUlur ,ghrjg151j]

RlgbmugqvzgbmvbgPuz rlvl gfv ugswklgbmugqr kqgkpgCrlxgYkmlgkpgMslxvzt,
v.ksbg.s v,gvgfvl-vb-vzfagqvagwvzbrisovzotgbvculglkbriugkpg.tgunuztgklu
pkzgmragarlxsovzgxvoovlbg.umvnrkszgrlgvgiuzbvrlgulikslbuz;gvl ,gslclkql,
mrxmotgikfful u ,gvl govfulbu ,g.urlxgoupbg uv gswklgbmugwoviu:g.sbg.t
lklugakgfsimgvag.tgZvrairvi,gvgXuzfvlgokz ,gqmkgqvagrlprlrbuotgulvfkszu 
kpgakgzvzugvgnvokszjggBmug.k tg.urlxg.zksxmbgkpp,gvl gbmugikslb,gqrbmgbmu
ikffklgiszrkarbtgikfrlxgbkgnruqgrb,gbmugvzfkszgqvaglkgakkluzgbvculgkpp
.sbgmugrffu rvbuotgcluqgmrfgbkg.ugmragkqlgakl,gvgbmrlxgbmvbgv  u gv
auikl g.okqgbkgbmugikfwvaarklgkpgvoogbmug.umko uza;gklotgmu,gqrbmksb
sbbuzrlxgvgqkz ,gkzgbszlrlxgvqvtgmragutuagpzkfgbmugqkupsogk.yuib,gabkk 
prhu otgiklbufwovbrlxgbmug.k tgkpgmragakl,gbroogbmugnumufulitgkpgakzzkq
mvnrlxgknuzikfugmragnrbvogawrzrba,gfv ugmrfgarlcg kqlgabklu- uv gbkgbmu
xzksl j

gggggggggg“Imrgwskg rzgikf’guxorgvz u,gvgrlgwriirkogpskik,”

ggggg[“Mugqmkgivlgavtgmkqgmug.szlagqrbmgoknu,gmvagorbbougprzu”
gggggg--Wubzvziv,gAklubbkg137j]

avtgbmugRllvfkzvbka,gqmulgbmutgqkso gzuwzuaulbgvlg‘rlaswwkzbv.ougwvaarklj

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Frauzkgesk gkflura
gggggggggggggggUzrwrbgaulasagfrmr:glvfgarfsogbu,
gggggggggggggggOua.rv,gvawuhr,glrmroguabgaswuzgfr,
gggggggggggggggggggggggggEsk gokesvzgvfulaj
gggggggggggggggOrlxsvgau gbkzwub:gbulsragas.gvzbsa
gggggggggggggggPovffvg rfvlvb;gaklrbsgaskwbu
gggggggggggggggBrlbrlvlbgvszua;gxufrlvgbuxslbsz
gggggggggggggggggggggggggOsfrlvglkibuj”

ggggg[“Oknug uwzrnuagfugkpgvoogftgpvisobrua:gOua.rv,gqmulgkliugrlgbmt
gggggwzuauliu,gRgmvnuglkbgoupbgbmugwkquzgbkgbuoogftg rabzvibrlxgwvaarkl:
gggggftgbklxsug.uikfuagbkzwr ;gvgas.bougpovfugizuuwagbmzksxmgftgnurla;gft
ggggguvzagbrlxougrlg uvpluaa;gftgutuagvzugnurou gqrbmg vzcluaaj”
ggggggIvbsoosa,gUwrxjgorjg5]

Lurbmuzgragrbgrlgbmugmurxmbgvl gxzuvbuabgpsztgkpgbmugprbgbmvbgqugvzugrlgv
ikl rbrklgbkgwkszgksbgkszgikfwovrlbagkzgkszgvfkzksagwuzasvarkla,gbmugakso
.urlxgvbgbmvbgbrfugknuz-.sz ulu ,gvl gov.kszrlxgqrbmgwzkpksl gbmksxmba;
vl gbmug.k tg uyuibu gvl govlxsramrlxgqrbmg uarzu;gvl gbmuliugrbgragbmvb
akfubrfuagwzkiuu gbmkaugviir ulbvogrfwkbuliruagbmvbgakgslauvaklv.ot
aszwzraugbmugoknuz,gvl gbmvbgpzrxr rbtgqmrimg.tgbmugpkziugkpgvl
rffk uzvbugvz kszgaurduagmrfgunulgrlgbmugnuztgovwgkpgpzsrbrklj
--[Bmugu rbrklgkpg1588gmvagmuzu,g“Vlgviir ulbglkbgslclkqlgbkgftauopj”]--
Pkzgvoogwvaarklagbmvbgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugzuoramu gvl g rxuabu gvzu
.sbgfk uzvbu:

ggggggggggggggg“Iszvugounuagokesslbsz,grlxulbuagabswulbj”

ggggg[“Orxmbgxzrupagivlgawuvc:g uuwgakzzkqagvzug sf.j”
gggggg--Auluiv,gMrwwkotbsa,gvibgrrjgaiulug3j]

Vgaszwzraugkpgsluhwuibu gyktg kuagorcuqraugkpbulgwzk siugbmugavfuguppuib:

ggggggggggggggg“Sbgfugiklawuhrbgnulrulbuf,gubgBzkyvgirzisf
gggggggggggggggVzfvgvfulagnr rb,gfvxlraguhbuzzrbvgfklabzra,
ggggggggggggggg rzrxsrbgnrasgrlgfu rk,givokzgkaavgzuoresrb,
gggggggggggggggOv.rbsz,gubgoklxkgnrhgbvl ufgbufwkzugpvbszj”

ggggg[“Qmulgamug.umuo gfugv nvlirlx,gvl gavq,gqrbmgabswupvibrkl,gbmu
gggggBzkyvlgvzfagvzksl gfu,gbuzzrpru gqrbmgakgxzuvbgvgwzk rxt,gamu
gggggpvrlbu gvqvtgvbgbmugnuztgarxmb:gnrbvogqvzfbmgpkzakkcgmuzgorf.a:gamu
gggggarlcag kql,gvl ,gvpbuzgvgoklxgrlbuznvo,gqrbmg rpprisobtgawuvcaj”--
gggggVUlur ,grrrjg306j]

.uar uagbmuguhvfwouagkpgbmugZkfvlgov t,gqmkg ru gpkzgyktgbkgauugmuzgakl
avpugzubszlu gpzkfgbmug upuvbgkpgIvllvu;gvl gkpgAkwmkiouagvl gkp
 rkltarsagbmugBtzvlb,--[Worlt,gnrrjgg53jgg rk kzsagArisosa,gmkqunuzg(hnj
ijg20),gbuooagsagbmvbg rkltarsag“qvagakgknuzyktu gvbgbmugluqagbmvbgmu
fv ugvgxzuvbgavizrpriugswklgrbgbkgbmugxk a,gwzuwvzu gasfwbsksagpuvaba,gbk
qmrimgmugrlnrbu gvoogmragpzrul a,gvl gbmuzurlg zvlcgakguhiuaarnuotgbmvb
rbgbmzuqgmrfgrlbkgvgnuztg.v g rabufwuzj”]--qmkg ru gkpgykt;gvl gkp
Bmvolv,gqmkg ru grlgIkzariv,gzuv rlxgluqagkpgbmugmklkszagbmugZkfvlgAulvbu
mv g uizuu grlgmragpvnksz,gqugmvnu,gfkzuknuz,gklugrlgkszgbrfu,gkpgWkwu
OukgHj,gqmkgswklgluqagkpgbmugbvcrlxgkpgFrovl,gvgbmrlxgmugmv gakgvz ulbot
 uarzu ,gqvagzvwbgqrbmgakgas  ulgvlguhiuaagkpgyktgbmvbgmugrffu rvbuot
puoogrlbkgvgpunuzgvl g ru j--[Xsriirvz rlr,gAbkzrvg ’Rbvorv,gnkoj
hrnj]--Vl gpkzgvgfkzuglkbv.ougbuabrfkltgkpgbmugrf.uirorbtgkpgmsfvl
lvbszu,grbgragzuikz u g.tgbmugvlirulba--[Worlt,g‘sbgaswzv’]--bmvb
 rk kzsagbmug rvouibrirvlg ru gswklgbmugawkb,gksbgkpgvlguhbzufugwvaarkl
kpgamvfu,gpkzglkbgmvnrlxg.uulgv.ougrlgmragkqlgaimkko,gvl grlgbmugwzuauliu
kpgvgxzuvbgvs rbkzt,gbkg raulxvxugmrfauopgpzkfgvglriugvzxsfulbgbmvbgqva
wzkwksl u gbkgmrfjggR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gvfgnuztgorbbougas.yuibgbkgbmuau
nrkoulbgwvaarkla;gRgvfglvbszvootgkpgvgabs..kzlgvwwzumularkl,gqmrimgvoak,
.tgzuvaklrlx,gRgunuztg vtgmvz ulgvl gpkzbrptj




IMVWBUZgRRR

BMVBgKSZgVPPUIBRKLAgIVZZTgBMUFAUONUAg.UTKL gSA

Asimgvagviisaugfvlcrl gkpgbmugpkootgkpgxvwrlxgvpbuzgpsbszugbmrlxa,gvl 
v nraugsagbkgfvcugkszg.uluprbgkpgbmkaugqmrimgvzugwzuaulb,gvl gbkgaubgsw
kszgzuabgswklgbmuf,gvagmvnrlxglkgxzvawgswklgbmvbgqmrimgragbkgikfu,gunul
ouaagbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgqugmvnugswklgqmvbgragwvab,gmvnugmrbgswklgbmugfkab
slrnuzavogkpgmsfvlguzzkza,grpgbmvbgfvtg.ugivoou gvlguzzkzgbkgqmrimglvbszu
muzauopgmvag rawkau gsa,grlgkz uzgbkgbmugiklbrlsvbrklgkpgmuzgkqlgqkzc,
wzuwkaauaarlxgsa,gvfklxabgaunuzvogkbmuza,gqrbmgbmrag uiurnrlx
rfvxrlvbrkl,gvag.urlxgfkzugyuvoksagkpgkszgvibrklgbmvlgvpzvr gkpgksz
clkqou xuj

Qugvzuglunuzgwzuaulbgqrbm,g.sbgvoqvtag.utkl gkszauonua:gpuvz,g uarzu,
mkwu,gabroogwsamgsagklgbkqvz agbmugpsbszu,g uwzrnrlxgsa,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,
kpgbmugaulaugvl giklar uzvbrklgkpgbmvbgqmrimgragbkgvfsaugsagqrbmgbmu
bmksxmbgkpgqmvbgamvoog.u,gunulgqmulgqugamvoog.uglkgfkzuj--[Zksaauvs,
Ufrou,gornzugrrj]

gggggggggg“Ivovfrbkasaguabgvlrfsagpsbszrgvshrsaj”

ggggg[“Bmugfrl gvlhrksagv.ksbgbmugpsbszugragslmvwwtj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwrabj,g98j]

Qugprl gbmragxzuvbgwzuiuwbgkpbulgzuwuvbu grlgWovbk,g“ kgbmrlugkqlgqkzc,
vl gclkqgbmtauopj”ggKpgqmrimgbqkgwvzba,g.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz
xuluzvoot,gikfwzumul gkszgqmkoug sbt,gvl g kguvimgkpgbmufgrlgorcugfvlluz
rlnkonugbmugkbmuz;gpkzgqmkgqroog kgmragkqlgqkzcgvzrxmbgqroogprl gbmvbgmra
przabgouaaklgragbkgclkqgqmvbgmugra,gvl gbmvbgqmrimgragwzkwuzgbkgmrfauop;
vl gqmkgzrxmbotgsl uzabvl agmrfauopgqrooglunuzgfrabvcugvlkbmuzgfvl’agqkzc
pkzgmragkql,g.sbgqroogoknugvl grfwzknugmrfauopgv.knugvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa,
qroogzupsaugaswuzposksagufwoktfulba,gvl gzuyuibgvoogslwzkprbv.ougbmksxmba
vl gwzkwkarbrklajggVagpkoot,gklgbmugklugar u,gbmksxmgrbgamkso gulyktgvoo
rbg uarzu,gqkso glkbqrbmabvl rlxglunuzg.ugiklbulb,gak,gklgbmugkbmuz,
qra kf,gviesruairlxgrlgbmugwzuaulb,graglunuzg raavbrapru gqrbmgrbauopj
--[Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuj,g57,gnjg18j]--Uwriszsag rawulauagmragavxuagpzkf
voogpkzuarxmbgvl givzugkpgbmugpsbszuj

Vfklxabgbmkaugovqagbmvbgzuovbugbkgbmug uv ,gRgokkcgswklgbmvbgbkg.ugnuzt
aksl g.tgqmrimgbmugvibrklagkpgwzrliuagvzugbkg.uguhvfrlu gvpbuzgbmurz
 uiuvauj--[ rk kzsagArisosa,grjg6j]--gBmutgvzuguesvoagqrbm,grpglkb
fvabuzagkpgbmugovqa,gvl ,gbmuzupkzu,gqmvbgysabriugikso glkbgrlporibgswkl
bmurzgwuzakla,g‘brag.sbgzuvaklgamkso g.uguhuisbu gswklgbmurzgzuwsbvbrkla
vl gbmuguabvbuagkpgbmurzgasiiuaakza--bmrlxagbmvbgqugkpbulgnvosugv.knu
orpugrbauopjgg‘Bragvgisabkfgkpgarlxsovzgv nvlbvxugbkgbmkaugikslbzrua
qmuzugrbgragrlgsau,gvl g.tgvoogxkk gwzrliuagbkg.ug uarzu ,gqmkgmvnu
zuvaklgbkgbvcugrbgroo,gbmvbgbmugfufkzruagkpgbmugqricu gamkso g.ugsau 
qrbmgbmugavfugzunuzuliugvl gzuawuibgqrbmgbmurzgkqljggQugkqugas.yuibrkl
vl gk.u ruliugbkgvoogkszgcrlxa,gqmubmuzgxkk gkzg.v ,gvorcu,gpkzgbmvbgmva
zuawuibgslbkgbmurzgkppriu;g.sbgvagbkguabuufgvl gvppuibrkl,gbmuaugvzugklot
 sugbkgbmurzgnrzbsujggOubgsagxzvlbgbkgwkorbrivogxknuzlfulbgbkgul szugbmuf
qrbmgwvbruliu,gmkqunuzgslqkzbmt;gbkgikliuvogbmurzgnriua;gvl gbkgvaarab
bmufgqrbmgkszgzuikfful vbrklgrlgbmurzgrl rppuzulbgvibrkla,gqmroabgbmurz
vsbmkzrbtgabvl agrlgluu gkpgkszgaswwkzbjgg.sb,gbmugzuovbrklgkpgwzrliugvl 
as.yuibg.urlxgkliugvbgvlgul ,gbmuzugraglkgzuvaklgqugamkso g ultgbmu
uhwzuaarklgkpgkszgzuvogkwrlrklagbkgkszgkqlgor.uzbtgvl gikffklgysabriu,
vl guawuirvootgbkgrlbuz ribgbkgxkk gas.yuibagbmugxokztgkpgmvnrlx
zunuzulbotgvl gpvrbmpsootgauznu gvgwzrliu,gqmkaugrfwuzpuibrklagquzugbk
bmufgakgquoogclkql;gbmragquzugbkg uwzrnugwkabuzrbtgkpgvgsaupsoguhvfwouj
Vl gasimgva,gksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgakfugwzrnvbugk.orxvbrkl,gslysabotguawksau
vl gnrl rivbugbmugfufkztgkpgvgpvsobtgwzrliu,g kgwzrnvbugzrxmbgvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgws.origysabriujggOrntg kuagnuztgbzsotgavt,--[hhhnjg48j]--
“Bmvbgbmugovlxsvxugkpgfulg.zu gswgrlgikszbagragvoqvtagpsoogkpgnvrl
kabulbvbrklgvl gpvoaugbuabrfklt,gunuztgklugrl rppuzulbotgfvxlrptrlxgmra
kqlgfvabuz,gvl gabzubimrlxgmragikfful vbrklgbkgbmugsbfkabguhbulbgkp
nrzbsugvl gaknuzurxlgxzvl uszj”ggAkfugfvtgikl uflgbmugpzuu kfgkpgbmkau
bqkgako ruzagqmkgakgzksl otgvlaquzu gLuzkgbkgmrag.uvz ;gbmugklug.urlx
vacu g.tgmrfgqmtgmug.kzugmrfgroo-qroo?gg“Rgoknu gbmuu,”gvlaquzu gmu,
“qmroabgbmksgquzbgqkzbmtgkpgrb,g.sbgarliugbmksgvzbg.uikfugvgwvzzrir u,gvl
rliul rvzt,gvgwovtuz,gvl gvgikvimfvl,gRgmvbugbmuugvagbmksg kabg uauznuj”
gVl gbmugkbmuz,gqmtgmugamkso gvbbufwbgbkgcroogmrf?gg“.uivsau,”gavr gmu,
“Rgikso gbmrlcgkpglkgkbmuzgzufu tgvxvrlabgbmtgwuzwubsvogfraimrupaj”
g--[Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,ghnjg67j]--.sbgbmugws.origvl gslrnuzavogbuabrfklrua
bmvbgquzugxrnulgkpgmrfgvpbuzgmrag uvbmg(vl gakgqroog.ugbkgvoogwkabuzrbt,
.kbmgkpgmrfgvl gvoogkbmuzgqricu gwzrliuagorcugmrf),gkpgmragbtzvllruagvl 
v.kfrlv.oug uwkzbfulb,gqmk,gkpgvgaksl gys xfulb,givlgzuwzknugbmuf?

Rgvfgaivl vorau ,gbmvbgrlgakgavizu gvgxknuzlfulbgvagbmvbgkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlagbmuzugamkso g.ugfrhu gakgmtwkizrbrivogvgiuzufkltgvbgbmu
rlbuzfulbgkpgbmurzgcrlxa;gqmuzugvoogbmurzgiklpu uzvbuagvl glurxm.ksza,
vl gvoogakzbagvl g uxzuuagkpgfulgvl gqkful,gvagquoogvagbmurzgaovnua,gisb
vl gaovamu gbmurzgpkzumuv agrlgbkculgkpgakzzkq,gzuwuvbrlxgrlgbmurzgizrua
vl govfulbvbrklagbmvbgbmvbgcrlxg(oubgmrfgmvnug.uulgvagqricu gvagbmu
 unro)gqvagbmug.uabgbmvbgunuzgbmutgmv ;--[Muzk kbsa,gnrjgg68j]--.tgbmra
fuvlagvbbzr.sbrlxgbkgmragesvorbtgbmugwzvraugbmvbgklotg.uoklxagbkgfuzrb,
vl gbmvbgkpgzrxmbgrag sugbkgaswzufug uauzb,gbmksxmgok xu grlgbmugokquab
vl gfkabgrlpuzrkzgas.yuibj

Vzrabkbou,gqmkgqroogabroogmvnugvgmvl grlgunuztbmrlx,gfvcuagvg‘esvuzu’
swklgbmugavtrlxgkpgAkokl,gbmvbglklugivlg.ugavr gbkg.ugmvwwtgslbrogmugra
 uv :g“qmubmuz,gbmul,gmugqmkgmvagornu gvl g ru gviikz rlxgbkgmragmuvzb’a
 uarzu,grpgmugmvnugoupbgvlgroogzuwsbug.umrl gmrf,gvl gbmvbgmragwkabuzrbt
.ugfrauzv.ou,givlg.ugavr gbkg.ugmvwwt?”ggQmroabgqugmvnugorpugvl gfkbrkl,
qugiklnutgkszauonuag.tgpvlitgvl gwzukiiswvbrkl,gqmrbmuzgvl gbkgqmvbgqu
wouvau;g.sbgkliugksbgkpg.urlx,gqugmvnuglkgfkzugvltgfvlluzgkp
ikffslrivbrklgqrbmgbmvbgqmrimgra,gvl grbgmv gbmuzupkzug.uulg.ubbuzgavr 
.tgAkoklgbmvbgfvlgraglunuzgmvwwt,g.uivsauglunuzgak,gbroogmugraglkgfkzuj

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esraesvf
ggggggggggNrhgzv rirbsagugnrbvgaugbkoorb,gubgurirb;
ggggggggggAu gpvirbguaaugasrgesr  vfgaswuzgrlairsagrwau,
ggggggggggLuigzufknubgavbragvgwzkyuibkgikzwkzugauau,gub
ggggggggggNrl rivbj”

ggggg[“Aivziuotgklugfvlgivl,gunulgrlg trlx,gqmkootg ubvimgmrfauopgpzkf
gggggbmugr uvgkpgorpu;grlgmragrxlkzvliugmugfsabgluu agrfvxrlugbmvbgbmuzu
gggggragrlgmrfgakfubmrlxgbmvbgasznrnuagmrf,gvl givllkbgaspprirulbot
gggggauwvzvbugkzgufvlirwvbugmrfauopgpzkfgmragzufvrla”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg890j]

.uzbzvl g ugXsuaiorl,g trlxgvbgbmugaruxugkpgbmugIvabougkpgZvlikl,gluvz
slbkgWst,grlgVsnuzxlu,gbmug.uaruxu gquzugvpbuzqvz a,gswklgaszzul uz,
ulykrlu gbkgovtg kqlgbmugcutagkpgbmugwoviugswklgbmugikzwaugkpgbmug uv 
xuluzvojgg.vzbkokffukg ’Vonrvlk,gbmugNulubrvlgXuluzvo,gmvwwulrlxgbkg ru
rlgbmugauznriugkpgbmugZuws.origrlg.zuairv,gvl gmragikzwaug.urlxgbkg.u
ivzzru gbmzksxmgbmugbuzzrbkztgkpgNuzklv,gvlguluft’agikslbzt,gfkabgkpgbmu
vzftgquzugrliorlu gbkg ufvl gavpu-ikl sibgpzkfgbmugNuzkluau;g.sbgBmuk kzk
Bzrnsodrkgkwwkau gbmugfkbrkl,gzvbmuzgimkkarlxgbkgfvcugmragqvtg.tgpkziugkp
vzfa,gvl gbkgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgvg.vbbou,gavtrlxgrbgqvag.tglkgfuvlagprb
bmvbgmugqmkgrlgmragorpugqvaglunuzgvpzvr gkpgmragulufruagamkso gauufgbk
vwwzumul gbmufgqmulgmugqvag uv jggRlgbzsbm,grlgvppvrzagkpgbmugavfu
lvbszu,g.tgbmugXzuucgovqa,gmugqmkgfv ugasrbgbkgvlguluftgpkzgvg.k tgbk
xrnugrbg.szrvogzulksliu gmragnribkzt,gvl gmv glkgfkzugzrxmbgbkguzuibgv
bzkwmt,gvl gmugbkgqmkfgasimgasrbgqvagfv ugqvagzuwsbu gnribkzjgg.tgbmra
fuvlagrbgqvagbmvbgLrirvagokabgbmugv nvlbvxugmugmv gnrar.otgk.bvrlu gknuz
bmugIkzrlbmrvla,gvl gbmvbgVxuarovsa,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gvaaszu gbmvbgqmrim
mugmv g.upkzugnuztg ks.bpsootgxvrlu gknuzgbmug.kukbrvlaj--[Wosbvzim,
OrpugkpgLrirva,gijgrrj;gOrpugkpgVxuarovsa,gijgnrj]

Bmuaugbmrlxagfrxmbgvwwuvzgabzvlxu,gmv grbglkbg.uulgvgxuluzvogwzvibriugrl
voogvxuaglkbgklotgbkguhbul gbmugikliuzlgkpgkszauonuag.utkl gbmragorpu,
.sb,gfkzuknuz,gbkgpvlitgbmvbgbmugpvnkszgkpgMuvnulg kuaglkbgklotgnuzt
kpbulgviikfwvltgsagbkgbmugxzvnu,g.sbgmvagvoak,gunulgvpbuzgorpu,gvgikliuzl
pkzgkszgvamuajggKpgqmrimgbmuzugvzugakgfvltgvlirulbguhvfwouag(bkgavt
lkbmrlxgkpgbmkaugkpgkszgkqlgk.auznvbrkl),gbmvbgrbgraglkbgluiuaavztgR
amkso goklxuzgrlarabgswklgrbjggU qvz gRj,gCrlxgkpgUlxovl ,gmvnrlxgrlgbmu
oklxgqvzag.ubqrhbgmrfgvl gZk.uzb,gCrlxgkpgAikbovl ,gmv guhwuzruliugkpgmkq
xzuvbgrfwkzbvliugmragkqlgrffu rvbugwzuauliugqvagbkgbmugasiiuaagkpgmra
vppvrza,gmvnrlxgunuzg.uulgnribkzrksagrlgqmvbunuzgmugsl uzbkkcgrlgmragkql
wuzakl,gqmulgmugivfugbkg ru,g.ksl gmragaklgrlgvgakouflgkvbmgbmvb,gakgakkl
vagmugamkso g.ug uv gmugamkso g.krogmrag.k tgbroogbmugpouamgwvzbu gpzkf
bmug.klua,gvl g.sztgbmugpouam,gzuauznrlxgbmug.kluagbkgivzztgiklbrlsvoot
qrbmgmrfgrlgmragvzft,gakgkpbulgvagmugamkso g.ugk.orxu gbkgxkgvxvrlabgbmu
Aikba,gvagrpg uabrltgmv grlunrbv.otgvbbvimu gnribkzt,gunulgbkgmra
zufvrlajggYkmlgDraiv,gbmugavfugqmk,gbkgnrl rivbrklgkpgQriorppu’a
muzuarua,gbzks.ou gbmug.kmufrvlgabvbu,goupbgkz uzgbmvbgbmutgamkso gpovt
mrfgvpbuzgmrag uvbm,gvl gkpgmragacrlgfvcugvg zsfgbkgivzztgrlgbmugqvz
vxvrlabgmragulufrua,gpvlitrlxgrbgqkso giklbzr.sbugbkgbmugiklbrlsvbrklgkp
bmugasiiuaauagmugmv gvoqvtagk.bvrlu grlgbmugqvzagvxvrlabgbmufjggRlgorcu
fvlluzgiuzbvrlgkpgbmugRl rvla,grlgbmurzg.vbbouagqrbmgbmugAwvlrvz a,
ivzzru gqrbmgbmufgbmug.kluagkpgklugkpgbmurzgivwbvrla,grlgiklar uzvbrklgkp
bmugnribkzruagbmutgmv gpkzfuzotgk.bvrlu gsl uzgmragikl sibjggVl gkbmuz
wukwougkpgbmugavfugLuqgQkzo givzztgv.ksbgqrbmgbmuf,grlgbmurzgqvza,gbmu
zuoriagkpgnvorvlbgfulgqmkgmvnug ru grlg.vbbou,gbkgrlirbugbmurzgikszvxu
vl gv nvliugbmurzgpkzbslujggKpgqmrimguhvfwouagbmugprzabgzuauznuglkbmrlx
pkzgbmugbkf.g.sbgbmugzuwsbvbrklgbmutgmvnugviesrzu g.tgbmurzgpkzfuz
vimrunufulba,g.sbgbmuaugvbbzr.sbugbkgbmufgvgiuzbvrlgwzuaulbgvl gvibrnu
wkquzj

Bmugwzkiuu rlxgkpgIvwbvrlg.vtvz gragkpgvg.ubbuzgikfwkarbrkl,gqmkgprl rlx
mrfauopgqksl u gbkg uvbmgqrbmgvlgmvzesu.saagamkb,gvl g.urlxgrfwkzbslu gbk
zubrzugksbgkpgbmugprxmb,gfv ugvlaquzgbmvbgmugqkso glkbg.uxrlgvbgbmugovab
xvawgbkgbszlgmrag.vicgbkgbmuguluft,gvl gviikz rlxotgabroogpksxmbgkl,gbroo
puuorlxgmrfauopgbkkgpvrlbgvl glkgoklxuzgv.ougbkgarbgklgmragmkzau,gmu
ikffvl u gmragabuqvz gbkgaubgmrfg kqlgvbgbmugpkkbgkpgvgbzuu,g.sbgakgbmvb
mugfrxmbg rugqrbmgmragpviugbkqvz agbmuguluft,gqmrimgmug r j

Rgfsabgtubgv  gvlkbmuzguhvfwou,guesvootgzufvzcv.ougpkzgbmugwzuaulb
iklar uzvbrklgqrbmgvltgkpgbmugpkzfuzjggBmugUfwuzkzgFvhrfrorvl,
xzuvb-xzvl pvbmuzgbkgbmuglkqgCrlxgWmrorw,--[WmrorwgRRjgkpgAwvrlj]--qvagv
wzrliugul kqu gbmzksxmksbgqrbmgxzuvbgvl guhbzvkz rlvztgesvorbrua,gvl 
vfklxabgbmugzuabgqrbmgvgarlxsovzg.uvsbtgkpgwuzakl,g.sbgmv gqrbmvogv
msfkszgnuztgiklbzvztgbkgbmvbgkpgkbmuzgwzrliua,gqmkgpkzgbmug uawvbimgkp
bmurzgfkabgrfwkzbvlbgvppvrzagiklnuzbgbmurzgiokau-abkkogrlbkgvgimvrzgkp
Abvbu,gqmrimgqva,gbmvbgmugqkso glunuzgwuzfrbgvltgkpgmrag.u imvf.uz,gmkq
pvfrorvzgakunuz,gbkgauugmrfgrlgbmvbgwkabszu,gvl gqkso gabuvogvar ugbk
fvcugqvbuzgvagzuorxrksaotgvagvgnrzxrl,gamtgbkg raiknuzgbkgmragwmtarirvl
kzgvltgkbmuzgqmkfakunuzgbmkaugwvzbagbmvbgqugvzugviisabkfu gbkgikliuvoj
Rgftauop,gqmkgmvnugakgrfws ulbgvgqvtgkpgbvocrlx,gvf,glunuzbmuouaa,
lvbszvootgakgfk uabgbmragqvt,gbmvbgslouaagvbgbmugrfwkzbslrbtgkpgluiuaarbt
kzgwouvaszu,gRgaivziuotgunuzgikffslrivbugbkgbmugarxmbgkpgvltgurbmuzgbmkau
wvzbagkzgvibrklagbmvbgisabkfgkz uzagsagbkgikliuvo,gqmuzurlgRgasppuzgfkzu
iklabzvrlbgbmvlgRgikliurnugragnuztgquoog.uikfrlxgvgfvl,guawuirvootgkpgft
wzkpuaarkljgg.sbgmuglkszramu gbmragfk uabgmsfkszgbkgasimgvg uxzuugkp
aswuzabrbrklgvagbkgxrnuguhwzuaagkz uzagrlgmragovabgqroogbmvbgbmutgamkso 
wsbgmrfgklg zvquzagakgakklgvagmugamkso g.ug uv ;gbkgqmrim,gfubmrlca,gmu
qkso gmvnug klugquoogbkgmvnugv  u gbmvbgmugamkso g.ug.orl pko u ,gbkk,
bmvbgwsbgbmufgkljggBmugimvzxugbmvbgItzsagoupbgqrbmgmragimro zul,gbmvb
lurbmuzgbmut,glkzgvltgkbmuz,gamkso gurbmuzgauugkzgbksimgmrag.k tgvpbuz
bmugaksogqvag uwvzbu gpzkfgrb,--[Hulkwmkl,gItzkwu rv,gnrrrjg7j]--R
vbbzr.sbugbkgakfugaswuzabrbrksag unkbrklgkpgmra;gpkzg.kbmgmragmrabkzrvl
vl gmrfauop,gvfklxabgbmurzgxzuvbgesvorbrua,gfvzcu gbmugqmkougikszaugkp
bmurzgornuagqrbmgvgarlxsovzgzuawuibgvl gzunuzuliugbkgzuorxrklj

Rgqvag.tglkgfuvlagwouvau gqrbmgvgabkzt,gbko gfug.tgvgfvlgkpgnuztgxzuvb
esvorbtgkpgvgzuovbrklgkpgfrlu,gvl gklugqmkgmv gxrnulgvgnuztgxkk gviikslb
kpgmrfauopg.kbmgrlgwuviugvl gqvz,gbmvb,gikfrlxgbkg rugrlgvgnuztgko gvxu,
kpguhiuaarnugwvrlgkpgbmugabklu,gmugawulbgbmugovabgmkszagkpgmragorpugrlgvl
uhbzvkz rlvztgakorirbs ugv.ksbgkz uzrlxgbmugmklkszgvl giuzufkltgkpgmra
psluzvo,gwzuaarlxgvoogbmugfulgkpgikl rbrklgqmkgivfugbkgauugmrfgbkgulxvxu
bmurzgqkz gbkgvbbul gmrfgbkgmragxzvnu:grfwkzbslrlxgbmragnuztgwzrliu,gqmk
ivfugbkgnrarbgmrfgvbgmragovabgxvaw,gqrbmgvgfkabguvzluabgaswworivbrklgbmvb
mugqkso gkz uzgmragpvfrotgbkg.ugbmuzu,gvl gwzuaulbrlxg.upkzugmrfgaunuzvo
zuvaklagvl guhvfwouagbkgwzknugbmvbgrbgqvagvgzuawuibg sugbkgvgfvlgkpgmra
ikl rbrkl;gvl gauufu gbkg rugiklbulb,gmvnrlxgk.bvrlu gbmragwzkfrau,gvl 
vwwkrlbu gbmugfubmk gvl gkz uzgkpgmragpsluzvogwvzv ujggRgmvnugauo kf
muvz gkpgakgwuzarabulbgvgnvlrbtj

Vlkbmuz,gbmksxmgiklbzvztgiszrkarbtg(kpgqmrimgarlxsovzrbt,gvoak,gRg kglkb
qvlbg kfuabriguhvfwou),gauufagbkg.ugakfuqmvbgvcrlgbkgbmra,gbmvbgvgfvl
amvoogis xuogmrag.zvrlagvbgbmugovabgfkfulbagkpgmragorpugbkgiklbzrnugmra
k.auesruagbkgakgwvzbrisovzgvl gslsasvogvgwvzarfkltgvagkpgklugauznvlbgqrbm
vgovlbuzl,gRgauugbmragmsfkszgikfful u ,gvl gbmugvwwkrlbfulbgkpgFvzisaj
UfrorsagOuwr sa,gqmkgpkz.v ugmragmurzagbkg.uabkqgswklgmragmuvzaugunulgbmu
ikffklgiuzufklruagrlgsaugswklgasimgkiivarklajggRagrbgtubgbufwuzvliugvl 
pzsxvorbtgbkgvnkr guhwulaugvl gwouvaszugkpgqmrimgbmugsaugvl gclkqou xu
vzugrfwuziuwbr.ougbkgsa?ggAuu,gmuzu,gvlguvatgvl gimuvwgzupkzfvbrkljggRp
rlabzsibrklgquzugvbgvoogluiuaavztgrlgbmragivau,gRgamkso g.ugkpgkwrlrkl
bmvbgrlgbmra,gvagrlgvoogkbmuzgvibrklagkpgorpu,guvimgwuzaklgamkso 
zuxsovbugbmugfvbbuzgviikz rlxgbkgmragpkzbslu;gvl gbmugwmrokakwmuzgOtikl
wzs ulbotgkz uzu gmragpzrul agbkg rawkaugkpgmrag.k tgqmuzugbmutgamkso 
bmrlcgfkabgprb,gvl gvagbkgmragpsluzvo,gbkgkz uzgrbglurbmuzgbkk
aswuzposksaglkzgbkkgfuvljggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgamkso gqmkootgzupuzgbmu
kz uzrlxgkpgbmragiuzufkltgbkgisabkf,gvl gamvoo,gqmulgbmugbrfugikfua,
viikz rlxotgouvnugrbgbkgbmurzg raizubrklgbkgqmkaugokbgrbgamvoogpvoogbkg k
fugbmvbgovabgkppriujg“Bkbsagmrigokisaguabgiklbuflul sagrlglk.ra,glkl
luxorxul sagrlglkabzra;”--[“Bmugwoviugkpgkszgauwsobszugragbkg.ugiklbuflu 
.tgsa,g.sbglkbgbkg.ugluxouibu g.tgkszgpzrul aj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgrjg45j]--
vl grbgqvagvgmkotgavtrlxgkpgvgavrlb,g“Iszvbrkgpsluzra,gikl rbrk
auwsobszv:gwkfwvguhuesrvzsf,gfvxragaslbgnrnkzsfgakovbrv,gesvfgas.ar rv
fkzbskzsfj”--[“Bmugivzugkpg uvbm,gbmugwoviugkpgauwsobszu,gbmugwkfwagkp
k.auesrua,gvzugzvbmuzgiklakovbrklagbkgbmugornrlxgbmvlgasiikszagbkgbmu
 uv j”gVsxsabjg ugIrnrbjg ur,grjgg12j]--Qmrimgfv ugAkizvbuagvlaquz
Izrbk,gqmk,gvbg uvbm,gvacu gmrfgmkqgmugqkso g.ug.szru :g“Mkqgtksgqroo,”
gavr gmujg“RpgRgquzugbkgikliuzlgftauopg.utkl gbmugwzuaulbgv.ksbgbmra
vppvrz,gRgamkso g.ugfkabgbufwbu ,gvagbmugxzuvbuabgavbrapvibrklgkpgbmra
crl ,gbkgrfrbvbugbmkaugqmkgrlgbmurzgorpubrfugulbuzbvrlgbmufauonuagqrbm
bmugiuzufkltgvl gmklkszagkpgbmurzgkqlgk.auesruag.upkzumvl ,gvl gvzu
wouvau gqrbmg.umko rlxgbmurzgkqlg uv gikslbulvliugrlgfvz.oujggMvwwtgvzu
bmutgqmkgivlgxzvbrptgbmurzgaulauag.tgrlaular.rorbt,gvl gornug.tgbmurz
 uvbm!”

Rgvfgzuv tgbkgikliurnugvlgrfwoviv.ougmvbzu gvxvrlabgvoogwkwsovz
 kfrlvbrkl,gbmksxmgRgbmrlcgrbgbmugfkabglvbszvogvl guesrbv.ougkpgvoo,gak
kpbgvagRgivoogbkgfrl gbmugrlmsfvlgrlysabriugkpgbmugwukwougkpgVbmula,gqmk,
qrbmksbgzufraarkl,gkzgkliugnksimavprlxgbkgmuvzgqmvbgbmutgmv gbkgavtgpkz
bmufauonua,gwsbgbkg uvbmgbmurzg.zvnugivwbvrlagluqotgzubszlu gbzrsfwmvlb
pzkfgvglvnvognribkztgbmutgmv gk.bvrlu gknuzgbmugOviu vufklrvlagluvzgbmu
VzxrlsarvlgRaoua,gbmugfkabg.okk tgvl gk.abrlvbugulxvxufulbgbmvbgunuzgbmu
Xzuucagpksxmbgvbgauv;g.uivsaug(vpbuzgbmugnribkzt)gbmutgpkookqu gswgbmu
.okqgvl gwszasu gbmugv nvlbvxuagwzuaulbu gbkgbmufg.tgbmugzsougkpgqvz,
zvbmuzgbmvlgabvtgbkgxvbmuzgswgvl g.sztgbmurzg uv jggVl gbmuguhuisbrklgra
tubgzul uzu gfkzugk rksag.tgbmug.umvnrkszgkpg rkfu kl,gqmk,g.urlxgklugkp
bmugikl uflu ,gvl gvgfvlgkpgfkabgufrlulbgnrzbsu,gwkorbrivogvl gfrorbvzt,
vpbuzgmvnrlxgmuvz gbmugaulbuliu,gv nvlirlxgbkgawuvc,glkgvs ruliugbroo
bmulgmvnrlxg.uulgvookqu ,grlabuv gkpgovtrlxg.upkzugbmufgmragkqlgivsau,
kzgbmugrfwrubtgkpgakgizsuogvgaulbuliu,gklotguhwzuaau gvgakorirbs ugpkz
mragys xua’gwzuauznvbrkl,g.uauuimrlxgbmugxk agbkgiklnuzbgbmragaulbuliugbk
bmurzgxkk ,gvl gwzvtrlxgbmvb,gpkzgluxouibrlxgbkgpsoprogbmugnkqagqmrimgmu
vl gmragikfwvlrklagmv gfv ug(qrbmgqmrimgmugvoakgviesvrlbu gbmuf)grl
viclkqou xfulbgkpgakgxokzrksagvgasiiuaa,gbmutgfrxmbglkbg zvqg kqlgbmu
rl rxlvbrklgkpgbmugxk agswklgbmuf;gvl gakgqrbmksbgfkzugqkz agqulb
ikszvxuksaotgbkgmrag uvbmj

Pkzbslu,gvgpuqgtuvzagvpbuz,gwslramu gbmufgrlgbmugavfugcrl ;gpkzgImv.zrva,
ivwbvrl-xuluzvogkpgbmurzglvnvogpkziua,gmvnrlxgxkbgbmug.ubbuzgkpgWkoora,
V frzvogkpgAwvzbv,gvbgbmugRaougkpgLvhka,gbkbvootgokabgbmugpzsrbagkpgmra
nribkzt,gklugkpgnuztgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgbmurzgvppvrza,grlgkz uzglkbgbk
rliszgbmug vlxuzgkpgbmraguhvfwou,gvl gakgbmvbgmugamkso glkbgokaugvgpuq
.k ruagkpgmrag uv gpzrul agbmvbgquzugpokvbrlxgrlgbmugauv,gxvnu
kwwkzbslrbtgbkgvgqkzo gkpgornrlxgulufruagbkgavrogvqvtgrlgavpubt,gqmk
vpbuzqvz agfv ugbmufgwvtg uvzgpkzgbmragslauvaklv.ougaswuzabrbrkl:--

ggggggggggggggg“Esvuzra,geskgyviuva,gwkabgk.rbsf,gokik?
ggggggggggggggggggggEskglklglvbvgyviulbj”

ggggg[“ kabgvacgqmuzugbmksgamvobgorugvpbuzg uvbm?
gggggQmuzugbmrlxaglkbg.kzlgoru,gbmvbglunuzg.urlxgmv j”]
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggAuluiv,gBtkvjgImkzkgrrjg30j


Bmragkbmuzgzuabkzuagbmugaulaugkpgzuwkaugbkgvg.k tgqrbmksbgvgakso:

ggggg“Luesugauwsoizsf,geskgzuirwrvbsz,gmv.uvb:gwkzbsfgikzwkzra,gs.r,
gggggzufraavgmsfvl,gnrbv,gikzwsagzuesruaivbgvgfvoraj”

ggggg[“Lkzgoubgmrfgmvnugvgauwsoimzugqmuzurlgmugfvtg.ugzuiurnu ,gvgmvnul
gggggpkzgmrag.k t,gqmuzu,gorpug.urlxgxklu,gbmvbg.k tgfvtgzuabgpzkfgrba
gggggqkuaj”--Ullrsa,gvwjggIriuzk,gBsaijggrjgg44j]

Vaglvbszug ufklabzvbuagbkgsagbmvbgaunuzvog uv gbmrlxagzubvrlgtubgvl
kiisobgzuovbrklgbkgorpu;gqrlugimvlxuagrbagpovnkszgvl gikfwouhrklgrl
iuoovza,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugimvlxuagvl gauvaklagkpgbmugnrlugpzkfgqmuliugrb
ivfu;gvl gbmugpouamgkp--nulraklgvobuzagrbagikl rbrklgrlgbmu
wkq uzrlx-bs.,gvl grbagbvabugviikz rlxgbkgbmugovqagkpgbmugornrlx
pouamgkpgrbagcrl ,gvagrbgragavr j




IMVWBUZgRN

BMVBgBMUgAKSOgUHWUL AgRBAgWVAARKLAgSWKLgPVOAUgK.YUIBA,gQMUZUgBMUgBZSUgVZU
QVLBRLX

Vgxulboufvlgkpgftgikslbzt,gfvznuooksaotgbkzfulbu gqrbmgbmugxksb,g.urlx
rfwkzbslu g.tgmragwmtarirvlagbkbvootgbkgv.abvrlgpzkfgvoogfvlluzgkpgavob
fuvba,gqvagqklbgwouvavlbotgbkgzuwot,gbmvbgrlgbmuguhbzufrbtgkpgmragprbagmu
fsabgluu agmvnugakfubmrlxgbkgesvzzuogqrbm,gvl gbmvbgzvrorlxgvbgvl 
iszarlx,gklugqmrougbmug.kokxlvgavsavxua,gvl gvlkbmuzgbmug zru gbklxsua
vl gbmugmvfa,gqvagakfugfrbrxvbrklgbkgmragwvrljgg.sb,grlgxkk guvzluab,gva
bmugvzfgqmulgrbgragv nvliu gbkgabzrcu,grpgrbgfraagbmug.okq,gvl gxkuag.t
bmugqrl ,grbgwvrlagsa;gvl gvagvoak,gbmvb,gbkgfvcugvgwouvavlbgwzkawuib,
bmugarxmbgamkso glkbg.ugokabgvl g rovbu grlgnvxsugvrz,g.sbgmvnugakfu
.ksl gvl gk.yuibgbkgorfrbgvl girzisfaizr.ugrbgvbgvgzuvaklv.oug rabvliuj

ggggggggg“Nulbsagsbgvfrbbrbgnrzua,glrargzk.kzug ulav
ggggggggggKiiszzvlbgatonvu,gawvbrkg rppsasagrlvlrj”

ggggg[“Vagbmugqrl gokauagrbagpkziug rppsau grlgnkr gawviu,gslouaagrbgrl
gggggrbagabzulxbmgulikslbuzagbmugbmricgqkk j”--Osivl,grrrjgg362j]

Akgrbgauufagbmvbgbmugakso,g.urlxgbzvlawkzbu gvl g raikfwkau ,gbszlagrba
nrkouliugswklgrbauop,grpglkbgaswworu gqrbmgakfubmrlxgbkgkwwkaugrb,gvl 
bmuzupkzugvoqvtagzuesrzuagvlgk.yuibgvbgqmrimgbkgvrf,gvl gqmuzuklgbkgvibj
Wosbvzimgavtagkpgbmkaugqmkgvzug uorxmbu gqrbmgorbboug kxagvl gfklcuta,
bmvbgbmugvfkzksagwvzbgbmvbgragrlgsa,gpkzgqvlbgkpgvgouxrbrfvbugk.yuib,
zvbmuzgbmvlgorugr ou,g kuagvpbuzgbmvbgfvlluzgpkzxugvl gizuvbugklugpvoau
vl gpzrnkoksajggVl gqugauugbmvbgbmugakso,grlgrbagwvaarkla,grliorlua
zvbmuzgbkg uiurnugrbauop,g.tgizuvbrlxgvgpvoaugvl gpvlbvabrivogvgas.yuib,
unulgiklbzvztgbkgrbagkqlg.uorup,gbmvlglkbgbkgmvnugakfubmrlxgbkgqkzcgswklj
Vpbuzgbmragfvlluzg.zsbug.uvabag rzuibgbmurzgpsztgbkgpvoogswklgbmugabklu
kzgquvwklgbmvbgmvagmszbgbmuf,gvl gqrbmgbmurzgbuubmgvgunulguhuisbugzunulxu
swklgbmufauonuagpkzgbmugrlysztgbmutgmvnugzuiurnu gpzkfgvlkbmuz:

ggggggggg“Wvllklragmvs gvorbuz,gwkabgribsfgavunrkzgszav,
ggggggggggIsrgyvisosfgwvznvgOt.ragvfulbvnrbgmv.ulv,
ggggggggggAugzkbvbgrlgnsolsa,gbuosfesugrzvbvgzuiuwbsf
ggggggggggRfwubrb,gubgauisfgpsxrulbufgirzisrbgmvabvfj”

ggggg[“Akgbmugamu-.uvz,gpruziuzgvpbuzgbmug.okqgpzkfgbmugOt.rvl’agbmklx-
gggggmszou g vzb,gbszlagzksl gswklgbmugqksl ,gvl gvbbvicrlxgbmugzuiurnu 
gggggawuvz,gbqrabagrb,gvagamugporuaj”--Osivl,gnrjg220j]

Qmvbgivsauagkpgbmugfrav nulbszuagbmvbg.upvoogsag kgquglkbgrlnulb?ggqmvb
ragrbgbmvbgqug kglkbgovtgbmugpvsobgbk,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx,gbmvbgqugfvtgmvnu
akfubmrlxgbkgesvzzuogqrbm?ggRbgraglkbgbmkaug.uvsbrpsogbzuaauagtksgbuvz,
lkzgragrbgbmugqmrbug.kakfgbmvbgrlgtkszgvlxuzgtksgakgslfuzirpsootg.uvb,
bmvbgqrbmgvlgslosictg.sooubgmvnugaovrlgtkszg.uoknu g.zkbmuz;gesvzzuogqrbm
akfubmrlxguoaujggOrnt,gawuvcrlxgkpgbmugZkfvlgvzftgrlgAwvrl,gavtagbmvbgpkz
bmugokaagkpgbmugbqkg.zkbmuza,gbmurzgxzuvbgivwbvrla:

gggggggggg“Pouzugkfluagzuwulbu,gubgkppulavzugivwrbvj”

ggggg[“Voogvbgkliugquwbgvl gbkzugbmurzgmvrzj”-Ornt,ghhnjgg37j]

‘BragvgikffklgwzvibriujggVl gbmugwmrokakwmuzg.rklgavr gwouvavlbotgkpgbmu
crlx,gqmkg.tgmvl apsogwsoou gmragmvrzgkppgmragmuv gpkzgakzzkq,g“ kuagbmra
fvlgbmrlcgbmvbg.vo luaagragvgzufu tgpkzgxzrup?”--[Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsuabj,
rrrjgg26j]--Qmkgmvaglkbgauulgwuunramgxvfuabuzagimuqgvl gaqvookqgbmu
ivz a,gvl gaqvookqgbmug riu,grlgzunulxugpkzgbmugokaagkpgbmurzgfklut?
Huzhuagqmrwwu gbmugauv,gvl gqzkbugvgimvooulxugbkgFkslbgVbmka;gItzsa
ufwoktu gvgqmkougvzftgaunuzvog vtagvbgqkzc,gbkgzunulxugmrfauopgkpgbmu
zrnuzgXtl va,gpkzgbmugpzrxmbgrbgmv gwsbgmrfgrlbkgrlgwvaarlxgknuzgrb;gvl 
Ivorxsovg ufkoramu gvgnuztg.uvsbrpsogwvoviugpkzgbmugwouvaszugmragfkbmuz
mv gkliugulyktu gbmuzuj

ggggg--[Wouvaszu--slouaag‘wovrarz’gquzugkzrxrlvootg‘ uwovrarz’--fsabg.u
gggggsl uzabkk gmuzugrzklrivoot,gpkzgbmugmksaugqvagklugrlgqmrimgamugmv 
ggggg.uulgrfwzraklu j--Auluiv,g ugRzvjgrrrjg22]--

Rgzufuf.uzgbmuzugqvagvgabkztgiszzulb,gqmulgRgqvagvg.kt,gbmvbgklugkpgksz
lurxm.kszrlxgcrlxa--[Wzk.v.otgVopklakgHRjggkpgIvabrou]--mvnrlxgzuiurnu 
vg.okqgpzkfgbmugmvl gkpgXk ,gaqkzugmugqkso g.ugzunulxu ,gvl grlgkz uzgbk
rb,gfv ugwzkiovfvbrklgbmvbgpkzgbulgtuvzagbkgikfuglkgklugamkso gwzvtgbk
Mrf,gkzgakgfsimgvagfulbrklgMrfgbmzksxmksbgmrag kfrlrkla,gkz,gakgpvzgva
mragvsbmkzrbtgqulb,g.uorunugrlgMrf;g.tgqmrimgbmutgfuvlbgbkgwvrlbglkbgak
fsimgbmugpkootgvagbmugnvrlxokztgkpgbmuglvbrklgkpgqmrimgbmragbvougqva
bko jggBmutgvzugnriuagbmvbgvoqvtagxkgbkxubmuz,g.sbgrlgbzsbmgasimgvibrkla
vagbmuaugmvnugrlgbmufgabroogfkzugkpgwzuasfwbrklgbmvlgqvlbgkpgqrbj
VsxsabsagIvuavz,gmvnrlxg.uulgbkaau gqrbmgvgbufwuabgvbgauv,gpuoogbk
 uptrlxgLuwbslu,gvl grlgbmugwkfwgkpgbmugIrziularvlgxvfua,gbkg.ugzunulxu ,
 uwkau gmragabvbsugpzkfgbmugwoviugrbgmv gvfklxabgbmugkbmuzg urbruaj
Qmuzurlgmugqvagabroogouaaguhisav.ougbmvlgbmugpkzfuz,gvl gouaagbmvlgmugqva
vpbuzqvz agqmul,gmvnrlxgokabgvg.vbbougsl uzgEsrlbrorsagNvzsagrlgXuzfvlt,
rlgzvxugvl g uawvrzgmugqulbgzsllrlxgmragmuv gvxvrlabgbmugqvoo,giztrlx
ksb,g“KgNvzsa!ggxrnugfug.vicgftgouxrkla!”gpkzgbmuauguhiuu gvoogpkoot,
pkzvafsimgvagrfwrubtgragykrlu gbmuzuqrbm,grlnv rlxgXk gMrfauop,gkzgvb
ouvabgPkzbslu,gvagrpgamugmv guvzagbmvbgquzugas.yuibgbkgkszg.vbbuzrua;
orcugbmugBmzvirvla,gqmkgqmulgrbgbmsl uzagkzgorxmbula,gpvoogbkgamkkbrlx
vxvrlabgmuvnulgqrbmgBrbvlrvlgnulxuvliu,gvagrpg.tgporxmbagkpgvzzkqagbmut
rlbul u gbkg.zrlxgXk gbkgzuvakljggBmksxmgbmugvlirulbgwkubgrlgWosbvzim
buooagsa--

gggggggggggggg“Wkrlbglugaugpvsbgikszksiuzgvshgvppvrzua,
gggggggggggggggRoglugouszgimvsobg ugbksbuaglkagimkouzuaj”

ggggg[“Qugfsabglkbgbzks.ougbmugxk agqrbmgkszgvppvrza;gbmutgbvcuglkgmuu 
gggggkpgkszgvlxuzagvl g rawsbuaj”--Wosbvzimj]

.sbgqugivlglunuzgulksxmg uiztgbmug rakz uzotgavooruagkpgkszgfrl aj




IMVWBUZgN

QMUBMUZgBMUgXKNUZLKZgKPgVgWOVIUg.UARUXU gKSXMBgMRFAUOP
BKgXKgKSBgBKgWVZOUT

EsrlbsagFvzirsa,gbmugZkfvlgouxvbugrlgbmugqvzgvxvrlabgWuzausa,gCrlxgkp
Fviu kl,gbkgxvrlgbrfugqmuzurlgbkgzurlpkziugmragvzft,gaubgklgpkkbgakfu
knuzbszuagkpgviikffk vbrkl,gqrbmgqmrimgbmugcrlxg.urlxgosoou gvaouuw,
iklios u gvgbzsiugpkzgakfug vta,g.tgbmragfuvlagxrnrlxgmraguluft
kwwkzbslrbtgvl gouraszugbkgzuizsrbgmragpkziua,gqmrimgqvagvpbuzqvz agbmu
kiivarklgkpgbmugcrlx’agprlvogzsrljggTubgbmuguo uzgaulvbkza,gfrl psogkp
bmurzgpkzupvbmuza’gfvlluza,gikl uflu gbmragwzkiuu rlxgvag uxuluzvbrlx
pzkfgbmurzgvlirulbgwzvibriu,gqmrim,gbmutgavr ,gqvagbkgprxmbg.tgnvoksz,
vl glkbg.tgvzbrpriu,gaszwzraua,gvl glrxmb-ulikslbuza;glurbmuzg.t
wzubul u gporxmbglkzgsluhwuibu gzvooruagbkgknuzikfugbmurzgulufrua;glunuz
fvcrlxgqvzgbroogmvnrlxgprzabgwzkiovrfu grb,gvl gnuztgkpbulgvaarxlu g.kbm
bmugmkszgvl gwoviugkpg.vbboujggKsbgkpgbmragxuluzksagwzrlirwougrbgqvagbmvb
bmutg uornuzu gswgbkgWtzzmsagmragbzuvimuzksagwmtarirvl,gvl gbkgbmu
Ubzszrvlagbmurzg raoktvogaimkkofvabuzjggBmragqva,grl uu ,gvgwzkiu szu
bzsotgZkfvl,gvl glkbmrlxgvooru gbkgbmugXzuirvlgas.boubt,glkzgbkgbmugWslri
isllrlx,gqmuzugrbgqvagzuwsbu gvgnribkztgkpgouaagxokztgbkgknuzikfug.t
pkziugbmvlg.tgpzvs jgg uiurbgfvtgauznugpkzgvgluu ,g.sbgmugklotgiklpuaaua
mrfauopgknuzikfugqmkgclkqagmugraglurbmuzgas. su g.tgwkoritglkz
frav nulbszu,g.sbg.tg rlbgkpgnvoksz,gfvlgbkgfvl,grlgvgpvrzgvl gysabgqvzj
Rbgnuztgquoogvwwuvza,g.tgbmug raikszaugkpgbmuaugxkk gko gaulvbkza,gbmvb
bmragprlugaulbuliugqvaglkbgtubgzuiurnu gvfklxabgbmufj

ggggggggggggggg“ kosa,gvlgnrzbsa,gesragrlgmkabugzuesrzvb?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgfvbbuzagqmubmuzg.tgnvokszgkzg.tgabzvbuxufgqugknuzikfugbmu
ggggguluft?”--Vulur ,grrjg390]

BmugVimvrvla,gavtagWkot.rsa,gv.mkzzu gvoogfvlluzgkpg ks.ou- uvorlxgrl
qvz,glkbgzuwsbrlxgrbgvgnribkztgslouaagqmuzugbmugikszvxugkpgbmuguluftgqva
pvrzotgas. su :

“Uvfgnrzgavlibsagubgavwrulagairubgnuzvfguaaugnribkzrvf,gesvu,gavonvgpr u
ubgrlbuxzvg rxlrbvbu,gwvzv.rbszj”--[“Vlgmkluabgvl gwzs ulbgfvlgqroo
viclkqou xugbmvbgklotgbkg.ugvgbzsugnribkztgqmrimgamvoog.ugk.bvrlu gavnrlx
mragkqlgxkk gpvrbmgvl g rxlrbtj”--Pokzsa,grjgg12j]--Avtagvlkbmuz:

gggggggggg“Nkalugnuorb,gvlgfu,gzuxlvzugmuzv,gesr nugpuzvb,
ggggggggggpkzagnrzbsbuguhwuzrvfszj”

ggggg[“QmubmuzgtksgkzgRgamvoogzsou,gkzgqmvbgamvoogmvwwul,goubgsa
ggggg ubuzfrlug.tgnvokszj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg12]

Rlgbmugcrlx kfgkpgBuzlvbu,gvfklxabgbmkauglvbrklagqmrimgqugakg.zkv otgivoo
.vz.vzrvla,gbmutgmvnugvgisabkfglunuzgbkgikffuliugqvz,gbroogrbg.ugprzab
wzkiovrfu ;gv  rlxgqrbmvogvlgvfwoug uiovzvbrklgkpgqmvbgfuvlagbmutgmvnugbk
 kgrbgqrbm,gqrbmgqmvbgvl gmkqgfvltgful,gqmvbgvffslrbrkla,gvl gqmvb,g.kbm
kppularnugvl g upularnu,gvzfa;g.sbgvoak,gbmvbg.urlxg klu,grpgbmurz
ulufruag kglkbgtruo gvl gikfugbkgvlgvxzuufulb,gbmutgikliurnugrbgovqpsogbk
ufwoktgqrbmksbgzuwzkvimgrlgbmurzgqvzagvltgfuvlagqmrimgfvtgmuowgbmufgbk
iklesuzj

BmugvlirulbgPokzulbrluagquzugakgpvzgpzkfgauucrlxgbkgk.bvrlgvltgv nvlbvxu
knuzgbmurzgulufruag.tgaszwzrau,gbmvbgbmutgvoqvtagxvnugbmufgvgfklbm’a
qvzlrlxg.upkzugbmutg zuqgbmurzgvzftgrlbkgbmugpruo ,g.tgbmugiklbrlsvo
bkoorlxgkpgvg.uoogbmutgivoou gFvzbrluoovj--[VpbuzgAbjgFvzbrlj]

Pkzgqmvbgikliuzlagkszauonua,gqmkgvzuglkbgakgaizswsoksagrlgbmragvppvrz,
vl gqmkgvbbzr.sbugbmugmklkszgkpgbmugqvzgbkgmrfgqmkgmvagbmugwzkprbgkpgrb,
vl gqmkgvpbuzgOtavl uzgavt,g“Qmuzugbmugorkl’agacrlgragbkkgamkzb,gqugfsab
ucugrbgksbgqrbmgvg.rbgpzkfgbmvbgkpgvgpkh”;gbmugfkabgsasvogkiivarklagkp
aszwzraugvzug uzrnu gpzkfgbmragwzvibriu,gvl gqugmko gbmvbgbmuzugvzuglk
fkfulbagqmuzurlgvgimrupgksxmbgbkg.ugfkzugirzisfawuib,gvl gbkgmvnugmragutu
akgfsimgvbgqvbim,gvagbmkaugkpgwvzoutagvl gbzuvbruagkpgviikffk vbrkl;gvl 
rbgra,gbmuzupkzu,g.uikfugvgxuluzvogzsougvfklxabgbmugfvzbrvogfulgkpgbmuau
ovbbuzgbrfua,gbmvbgvgxknuzlkzgkpgvgwoviuglunuzgksxmb,grlgvgbrfugkpgaruxu,
bkgxkgksbgbkgwvzoutjggRbgqvagpkzgbmragbmvbgrlgkszgpvbmuza’g vtagbmu
Aurxluszag ugFklbfkz gvl g ugo’Vaarxlr,g upul rlxgFksaaklgvxvrlabgbmu
IkslbgkpgLvaavs,gquzugakgmrxmotgiulaszu jgg.sbgtub,gvagbkgbmra,grbgqkso 
.uguhisav.ougrlgbmvbgxknuzlkzgqmk,gxkrlxgksb,gamkso ,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,
 kgrbgrlgasimgfvlluzgbmvbgbmugavpubtgvl gv nvlbvxugamkso g.ugklgmragar u;
vagIkslbgXsr kg rgZvlxklug r gvbgZuxxrkg(rpgqugvzugbkg.uorunug sg.uoovt,
pkzgXsriirvz rlrgavtagrbgqvagmugmrfauop)gqmulgbmugAurxluszg ugo’Uaisb
vwwzkvimu gbkgwvzout,gqmkgabuwwu gakgorbbougvqvtgpzkfgmragpkzb,gbmvbgv
 rakz uzgmvwwulrlxgrlgbmugrlbuzrfgkpgwvzout,glkbgklotgFklaruszg ugo’Uaisb
vl gmragwvzbtgqmkgquzugv nvliu gqrbmgmrf,gpksl gbmufauonuag.tgfsimgbmu
quvcuz,grlakfsimgbmvbgVouaavl zkgBzrnsoirkgqvagbmuzugaovrl,g.sbgmu
mrfauopgpkookqgbmugIkslb,gvl ,gzuotrlxgswklgmragmklksz,gbkgauiszugmrfauop
pzkfgbmug vlxuzgkpgbmugamkbgqrbmrlgbmugqvooagkpgbmugbkqlj

Usfulua,g.urlxgamsbgswgrlgbmugirbtgkpgLkzvg.tgVlbrxklsa,gvl g.tgmrf
rfwkzbslu gbkgikfugksbgbkgawuvcgqrbmgmrf,gvagmugaulbgmrfgqkz grbgqvagprb
mugamkso gbkgvgxzuvbuzgfvlgbmvlgmrfauop,gvl gklugqmkgmv glkqgvlgv nvlbvxu
knuzgmrf,gzubszlu gbmraglk.ougvlaquzjgg“Buoogmrf,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgRgamvoo
lunuzgbmrlcgvltgfvlgxzuvbuzgbmvlgftauopgqmroabgRgmvnugftgaqkz grlgft
mvl ,”gvl gqkso glkbgiklaulbgbkgikfugksbgbkgmrfgbroogprzab,gviikz rlxgbk
mragkqlg ufvl ,gVlbrxklsagmv g uornuzu gmrfgmragkqlgluwmuqgWbkokfusagrl
mkabvxuj

Vl gtubgakfugmvnug klugnuztgquoogrlgxkrlxgksbgrlgwuzaklgbkgwvzout,gklgbmu
qkz gkpgbmugvaavrovlb:gqrbluaagMulztg ugNvsh,gvgivnvoruzgkpgImvfwvxlu,
qmkg.urlxg.uaruxu g.tgbmugUlxoramgrlgbmugIvabougkpgIkffuzit,gvl 
.vzbmkokfuqg ug.zslua,gqmkgikffvl u gvbgbmugOuvxsuz,gmvnrlxgakgavwwu gbmu
xzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgbmugivabougqrbmksb,gbmvbglkbmrlxgzufvrlu g.sbgaubbrlx
przugbkgbmugwzkwagbkg.sztgbmug.uaruxu gsl uzgbmugzsrla,gmugzuesuabu gbmu
avr gMulztgbkgikfugksbgbkgawuvcgqrbmgmrfgpkzgmragkqlgxkk ,gqmrimgmug r 
qrbmgbmzuugfkzugrlgikfwvlt;gvl ,gmragzsrlg.urlxgfv ugvwwvzulbgbkgmrf,gmu
ikliurnu gmrfauopgarlxsovzotgk.orxu gbkgmraguluft,gbkgqmkaug raizubrklgmu
vl gmragxvzzraklgaszzul uzu gbmufauonua;gvl gprzug.urlxgwzuaulbotgvwworu 
bkgbmugfrlu,gbmugwzkwaglkgakkluzg.uxvlgbkgpvro,g.sbgbmugivabougqva
rffu rvbuotg.okqlgswgpzkfgrbagpksl vbrkla,glkgklugabklug.urlxgoupbgswkl
vlkbmuzj

Rgikso ,gvl g k,gqrbmgxzuvbgpvirorbt,gzuotgswklgbmugpvrbmgkpgvlkbmuz;g.sb
Rgamkso gnuztgslqroorlxotg kgrbgrlgasimgvgivau,gvagrbgamkso gbmuzu.tg.u
ys xu gbmvbgrbgqvagzvbmuzgvlguppuibgkpgftg uawvrzgvl gqvlbgkpgikszvxu
bmvlgnkoslbvzrotgvl gksbgkpgiklpr uliugvl gauiszrbtgrlgbmugpvrbmgkpgmrf
qrbmgqmkfgRgmv gbkg kj




IMVWBUZgNR

BMVBgBMUgMKSZgKPgWVZOUTg VLXUZKSA

Rgavq,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,govbuotgvbgFsaar vl,gvgwoviuglkbgpvzgpzkfgft
mksau,gbmvbgbmkaugqmkgquzug zrnulgksbgbmuliug.tgkszgvzft,gvl gkbmuzagkp
bmurzgwvzbt,gmrxmotgikfwovrlu gkpgbzuvimuzt,gpkzgbmvbg szrlxgvgbzuvbtgkp
viikffk vbrkl,gvl grlgbmugnuztgrlbuzrfgbmvbgbmurzg uwsbruagquzugbzuvbrlx,
bmutgquzugaszwzrau gvl gisbgbkgwruiua:gvgbmrlxgbmvb,gwuzv nulbszu,grl
vlkbmuzgvxu,gfrxmbgmvnugmv gakfugikokszgkpgpksogwovt;g.sb,gvagRgmvnugysab
avr ,gbmugwzvibriugkpgvzfagrlgbmuaug vtagragesrbugvlkbmuzgbmrlx,gvl 
bmuzugraglkqglkgiklpr uliugrlgvlguluftguhisav.ougbroogbmugbzuvbtgra
prlvootgauvou ;gvl gunulgbmulgbmugiklesuzkzgmvagulksxmgbkg kgbkgcuuwgmra
qkz :gakgmvdvz ksagvgbmrlxgrbgragbkgulbzsabgbmugk.auznvbrklgkpgbmugpvrbm
vgfvlgmvagulxvxu gbkgvgbkqlgbmvbgaszzul uzagswklguvatgvl gpvnkszv.ou
ikl rbrkla,gbkgbmugoriuliugkpgvgnribkzrksagvzft,gvl gbkgxrnugbmugako ruz
pzuugulbzvliugrlbkgrbgrlgbmugmuvbgkpg.okk j

OsirsagVUfrorsagZuxroosa,gbmugZkfvlgwzvubkz,gmvnrlxgokabgmragbrfugrl
vbbufwbrlxgbkgbvcugbmugirbtgkpgWmkivuvg.tgpkziu,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmu
arlxsovzgnvokszgqmuzuqrbmgbmugrlmv.rbvlbag upul u gbmufauonua,
ikl rbrklu ,gvbgovab,gbkgzuiurnugbmufgvagpzrul agbkgbmugwukwougkpgZkfu,
vl gbkgulbuzgbmugbkql,gvagrlbkgvgiklpu uzvbugirbt,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
mkabrorbt,gkpgqmrimgmugxvnugbmufgvoogvaaszvliu;g.sbgmvnrlx,gpkzgbmu
xzuvbuzgwkfw,g.zksxmbgmragqmkougvzftgrlgqrbmgmrf,grbgqvaglkgfkzugrlgmra
wkquz,gqrbmgvoogbmugul uvnkszgmugikso gsau,gbkgzuabzvrlgmragwukwou:gak
bmvb,gvnvzriugvl gzunulxugbzvfworlxgsl uzgpkkbg.kbmgmragvsbmkzrbtgvl gvoo
frorbvztg rairworlu,gmugbmuzugavqgvgiklar uzv.ougwvzbgkpgbmugirbtgavicu 
vl gzsrlu g.upkzugmragpviuj

Ioukfuluagqvagqklbgbkgavt,g“bmvbgqmvbgfraimrupgakunuzgvgfvlgikso g kgmra
uluftgrlgbrfugkpgqvzgqvagv.knugysabriu,gvl glkbmrlxgviikslbv.ougbkgrbgrl
bmugarxmbgkpgxk agvl gfulj”ggVl gak,gmvnrlxgiklios u gvgbzsiugqrbmgbmkau
kpgVzxkagpkzgaunulg vta,gbmugbmrz glrxmbgvpbuzgmugpuoogswklgbmufgqmul
bmutgquzugvoog.szru grlgaouuw,gvl gwsbgbmufgbkgbmugaqkz ,gvoouxrlxgbmvb
bmuzugmv glkglrxmbag.uulgfulbrklu grlgbmugbzsiu;g.sbgbmugxk agwslramu 
bmragas.bougwuzpr tj

Rlgvgbrfugkpgwvzoutgvoak;gvl gqmrougbmugirbrdulagquzugzuotrlxgswklgbmurz
avpubtgqvzzvlb,gbmugirbtgkpgIvarorlsfgqvagbvculg.tgaszwzrau,gvl gbmvb
unulgrlgbmugvxugkpgbmugysabuabgivwbvrlagvl gbmugfkabgwuzpuibgZkfvl
frorbvztg rairworlu;gpkzgrbgraglkbgavr gbmvbgrbgraglkbgovqpsogpkzgsa,grl
brfugvl gwoviu,gbkgfvcugv nvlbvxugkpgkszgulufrua’gqvlbgkpgsl uzabvl rlx,
vagquoogvagbmurzgqvlbgkpgikszvxuj

Vl ,g ks.bouaa,gqvzgmvaglvbszvootgfvltgwzrnrouxuagbmvbgvwwuvzgzuvaklv.ou
unulgbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgzuvakljggVl gbmuzupkzugmuzugbmugzsougpvroa,
“Lufrlufgr gvxuzugsbguhgvobugzrsagwzvu ubszgrlairbrvj”--[“Lkgklugamkso 
wzutagswklgvlkbmuz’agpkootj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjgg17j]--.sbgRgvf
vabklramu gvbgbmugxzuvbgor.uzbtgvookqu g.tgHulkwmklgrlgasimgivaua,gvl 
bmvbg.kbmg.tgwzuiuwbgvl g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgaunuzvoguhwokrbagkpgmra
ikfwoubugufwuzkz;gvlgvsbmkzgkpgnuztgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbt,gRgiklpuaa,grlgbmkau
vppvrza,gvag.urlxgrlgmragkqlgwuzaklg.kbmgvgxzuvbgivwbvrlgvl gv
wmrokakwmuzgkpgbmugprzabgpkzfgkpgAkizvbua’g rairwoua;gvl gtubgRgivllkb
iklaulbgbkgasimgvgfuvaszugkpgoriuliugvagmug rawulauagrlgvoogbmrlxagvl 
woviuaj

Fklaruszg ’Vs.rxlt,g.uaruxrlxgIvwsv,gvl gvpbuzgmvnrlxg rzuibu gvgpszrksa
.vbbuztgvxvrlabgrb,gArxlkzgPv.zrirkgIkokllv,gxknuzlkzgkpgbmugbkql,gmvnrlx
pzkfgvg.vabrklg.uxslgbkgwvzout,gvl gmragako ruzagrlgbmugfuvlbrfug.urlxgv
orbbougfkzugzufraagrlgbmurzgxsvz ,gkszgwukwougulbuzu gbmugwoviugvb
slvqvzua,gvl gwsbgbmufgvoogbkgbmugaqkz jggVl gkpgovbuzgfufkzt,gvbgTnkt,
ArxlkzgYsorvlkgZkfuzkgmvnrlxgwovtu gbmvbgwvzbgkpgvglknriugbkgxkgksbgbk
wvzoutgqrbmgbmugIklabv.ou,gvbgmragzubszlgpksl gmragwoviugbvculjgg.sb,
bmvbgqugfrxmbglkbgaivwugaikb-pzuu,gbmugFvzesuaagkpgWuaivzvgmvnrlxgovr 
aruxugbkgXulkv,gqmuzug scugKbbvnrvlkgPzuxkavgikffvl u gsl uzgksz
wzkbuibrkl,gvl gbmugvzbriouag.ubqrhbgbmufg.urlxgakgpvzgv nvliu gbmvbgrb
qvagokkcu gswklgvagvg klugbmrlx,gvl gswklgbmugwkrlbgbkg.ugiklios u ,gbmu
Awvlrvz agrlgbmugfuvlbrfugmvnrlxgaorwwu grl,gfv ugsaugkpgbmragbzuvimuzt
vagvlgv.akosbugnribkztjggVl garliu,gvbgOrxlt,grlg.vzzkra,gqmuzugbmugIkslb
 ug.zrullugikffvl u ,gbmugufwuzkzgmvnrlxgrlgmragkqlgwuzaklg.uouvxsuzu 
bmvbgwoviu,gvl g.uzbmunroou,gbmugavr gIkslb’agorusbulvlb,gxkrlxgksbgbk
wvzout,gqmroabgmugqvagivwrbsovbrlxgbmugbkqlgqvagbvculj

gggggggggggggg“Psgrognrliuzgaufwzufvrgovs v.rogikav,
gggggggggggggggNrlivargkgwuzgpkzbslv,gkgwuzgrlxuxlk,”

ggggg[“Nribkztgragunuzgqkzbmtgkpgwzvrau,gqmubmuzgk.bvrlu g.tgnvokszgkz
gggggqra kfj”--Vzrkabk,ghnjggRj]

.sbgbmugwmrokakwmuzgImztarwwsagqvagkpgvlkbmuzgkwrlrkl,gqmuzurlgRgvoak
iklisz;gpkzgmugqvagsau gbkgavtgbmvbgbmkaugqmkgzslgvgzviugksxmbgbkgufwokt
voogbmugpkziugbmutgmvnugrlgqmvbgbmutgvzugv.ksb,gvl gbkgzslgvagpvabgva
bmutgivl;g.sbgbmvbgrbgrag.tglkgfuvlagpvrzgrlgbmufgbkgovtgvltgmvl gswkl
bmurzgv nuzavztgbkgabkwgmrf,glkzgbkgaubgvgouxg.upkzugmrfgbkgbmzkqgmrf
 kqljggVl gtubgfkzugxuluzksagqvagbmugvlaquzgkpgbmvbgxzuvbgVouhvl uzgbk
Wkotwuziklgqmkgqvagwuzasv rlxgmrfgbkgbvcugbmugv nvlbvxugkpgbmuglrxmb’a
k.aiszrbtgbkgpvoogswklg vzrsajgg“.tglkgfuvla,”gavr g.u;g“rbgraglkbgpkz
asimgvgfvlgvagRgvfgbkgabuvogvgnribkzt,g‘Fvokgfugpkzbslvugwkulrbuvb,gesvf
nribkzrvgws uvbj’”--[“Rgmv gzvbmuzgikfwovrlgkpgroo-pkzbslugbmvlg.u
vamvfu gkpgnribkztj”ggEsrlbjgIszb,grnjg13]--

ggggggggg“Vbesugr ufgpsxrulbufg.vs guabg rxlvbsagKzk ul
ggggggggggAbuzluzu,gluigyvibvgivuisfg vzugisawr ugnsolsa
ggggggggggK.nrsa,gv nuzakesugkiiszzrb,gauesugnrzkgnrz
ggggggggggIklbsorb,gmvs gpszbkgfuorkz,gau gpkzbr.sagvzfraj”

ggggg[“Mug urxlu glkbgbkgbmzkqg kqlgKzk uagvagmugpou ,gkzgqrbmgbmug vzbu 
gggggawuvzgbkgxrnugmrfgvgqksl gslauul;g.sbgknuzbvcrlxgmrf,gmugiklpzklbu 
gggggmrfgpviugbkgpviu,gvl gulikslbuzu gfvlgbkgfvl:gaswuzrkz,glkbgrl
gggggabzvbvxuf,g.sbgrlgnvorvlbgvzfaj”--VUlur ,ghjgg732j]




IMVWBUZgNRR

BMVBgBMUgRLBULBRKLgRAgYS XUgKPgKSZgVIBRKLA

‘Bragvgavtrlx,g“Bmvbg uvbmg raimvzxuagsagkpgvoogkszgk.orxvbrklaj”ggRgclkq
akfugqmkgmvnugbvculgrbgrlgvlkbmuzgaulaujggMulztgNRRj,gCrlxgkpgUlxovl ,
vzbriou gqrbmg klgWmrorw,gaklgbkgFvhrfrorvlgbmugufwuzkz,gkzg(bkgwoviugmrf
fkzugmklkszv.ot)gpvbmuzgbkgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNj,gbmvbgbmugavr gWmrorw
amkso g uornuzgswgbmug scugkpgAsppkocgkpgbmugQmrbugZkau,gmraguluft,gqmk
qvagpou grlbkgbmugOkqgIkslbzrua,grlbkgmragmvl a;gqmrimgWmrorwgviikz rlxot
 r ,g.sbgswklgikl rbrkl,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgMulztgamkso gvbbufwbglkbmrlx
vxvrlabgbmugorpugkpgbmugavr g scu;g.sbgikfrlxgbkg ru,gbmugcrlxgrlgmra
ovabgqroogikffvl u gmragaklgbkgwsbgmrfgbkg uvbmgrffu rvbuotgvpbuzgmra
 uiuvaujggVl govbuot,grlgbmugbzvxu tgbmvbgbmug scugkpgVonvgwzuaulbu gbk
sagrlgbmugwuzaklagkpgbmugIkslbagMkzlgvl gUxfklbgvbg.zsaauoa,
--[ uivwrbvbu g4bmgYslug1568]--bmuzugquzugnuztgzufvzcv.ougwvaavxua,gvl 
klugvfklxabgbmugzuab,gbmvbgIkslbgUxfklbg(swklgbmugauiszrbtgkpgqmkaugqkz 
vl gpvrbmgIkslbgMkzlgmv gikfugvl gaszzul uzu gmrfauopgbkgbmug scugkp
Vonv)guvzluabotgulbzuvbu gbmvbgmugfrxmbgprzabgfkslbgbmugaivppko ,gbkgbmu
ul gbmvbg uvbmgfrxmbg raulxvxugmrfgpzkfgbmugk.orxvbrklgmugmv gwvaau gbk
bmugkbmuzjggRlgqmrimgivau,gfubmrlca,g uvbmg r glkbgviesrbgbmugpkzfuzgkp
mragwzkfrau,gvl gbmvbgbmugauikl gqvag raimvzxu gpzkfgrbgqrbmksbg trlxj
Qugivllkbg.ug.ksl g.utkl gqmvbgqugvzugv.ougbkgwuzpkzf,g.tgzuvaklgbmvb
uppuibgvl gwuzpkzfvliugvzuglkbgvbgvoogrlgkszgwkquz,gvl gbmvb,grl uu ,gqu
vzugfvabuzagkpglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugqroo,grlgqmrim,g.tgluiuaarbt,gvoogbmu
zsouagvl gqmkoug sbtgkpgfvlcrl gvzugpksl u gvl guabv.oramu :gbmuzupkzu
IkslbgUxfklb,gikliurnrlxgmragaksogvl gqroogrl u.bu gbkgmragwzkfrau,
vobmksxmgmugmv glkbgbmugwkquzgbkgfvcugrbgxkk ,gmv g ks.bouaag.uul
v.akonu gkpgmrag sbt,gunulgbmksxmgmugmv gksbornu gbmugkbmuz;g.sbgbmugCrlx
kpgUlxovl gqropsootgvl gwzufu rbvbuotg.zuvcrlxgmragpvrbm,gqvaglkgfkzugbk
.uguhisau gpkzg upuzzrlxgbmuguhuisbrklgkpgmragrlpr uorbtgbroogvpbuzgmra
 uvbmgbmvlgbmugfvaklgrlgMuzk kbsa,gqmkgmvnrlxgrlnrkov.ot,g szrlxgbmugbrfu
kpgmragorpu,gcuwbgbmugauizubgkpgbmugbzuvaszugkpgbmugCrlxgkpgUxtwb,gmra
fvabuz,gvbgmrag uvbmg raiknuzu grbgbkgmragimro zulj--[Muzk j,grrjgg121j]

Rgmvnugbvculglkbriugkpgaunuzvogrlgftgbrfu,gqmk,giklnribu g.tgbmurz
iklairuliuagkpgslysabotg ubvrlrlxgbmugxkk agkpgvlkbmuz,gmvnugul uvnkszu 
bkgfvcugvful ag.tgbmurzgqroo,gvl gvpbuzgbmurzg uiuvau;g.sbgbmutgmv gva
xkk g kglkbmrlx,gvagurbmuzgrlgbvcrlxgakgfsimgbrfugrlgakgwzuaarlxgvl
vppvrz,gkzgrlgxkrlxgv.ksbgbkgzufu tgvgqzklxgqrbmgakgorbbou
 raavbrapvibrklgkzgrlysztgbkgbmufauonuajggBmutgkqu,gknuzgvl gv.knu,
akfubmrlxgkpgbmurzgkql;gvl g.tgmkqgfsimgbmurzgwvtfulbgragfkzugabzribgvl 
rlikffk rksagbkgbmufauonua,g.tgakgfsimgragbmurzgzuabrbsbrklgfkzugysab
fuzrbkzrksajggWulrbulitgzuesrzuagwulvobt;g.sbgbmutgtubg kgqkzaugbmvl
bmuau,gqmkgzuauznugbmugvlrfkarbtgvxvrlabgbmurzglurxm.kszgbkgbmugovab
xvaw,gmvnrlxgikliuvou grbg szrlxgbmurzgorpu;gqmuzurlgbmutgfvlrpuabgorbbou
zuxvz gkpgbmurzgkqlgmklksz,grzzrbvbrlxgbmugwvzbtgkppul u grlgbmurz
fufkzt;gvl gouaagbkgbmurzgbmugwkquz,gunulgksbgkpgbkgfvcugbmurzgfvoriug ru
qrbmgbmuf,g.sbguhbul rlxgbmugorpugkpgbmurzgmvbzu gunulg.utkl gbmurzgkqlj
Slysabgys xua,gqmkg upuzgys xfulbgbkgvgbrfugqmuzurlgbmutgivlgmvnuglk
clkqou xugkpgbmugivsau!ggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgamvoogbvcugivzu,grpgRgivl,gbmvb
ftg uvbmg raiknuzglkbmrlxgbmvbgftgorpugmvaglkbgprzabgvl gkwulotg uiovzu j




IMVWBUZgNRRR

KPgR OULUAA

Vagqugauugakfugxzksl agbmvbgmvnugoklxgovrlgr ougvl gslbroou ,gqmulgxzkql
zrimgvl gpuzbroug.tgzuab,gbkgv.ksl gqrbmgvl gawul gbmurzgnrzbsugrlgbmu
wzk sibgkpgrllsfuzv.ougakzbagkpgquu agvl gqro gmuz.agbmvbgvzu
slwzkprbv.ou,gvl gbmvbgbkgfvcugbmufgwuzpkzfgbmurzgbzsugkppriu,gqugvzugbk
isobrnvbugvl gwzuwvzugbmufgpkzgasimgauu agvagvzugwzkwuzgpkzgkszgauznriu;
vl gvagqugauugqkfulgbmvb,gqrbmksbgclkqou xugkpgfvl,g kgakfubrfuagkp
bmufauonuag.zrlxgpkzbmgrlvlrfvbugvl gpkzfouaagosfwagkpgpouam,g.sbgbmvbgbk
ivsaugvglvbszvogvl gwuzpuibgxuluzvbrklgbmutgvzugbkg.ugmsa.vl u gqrbm
vlkbmuzgcrl gkpgauu :gunulgakgrbgragqrbmgfrl a,gqmrimgrpglkbgvwworu gbk
akfugiuzbvrlgabs tgbmvbgfvtgprhgvl gzuabzvrlgbmuf,gzslgrlbkgvgbmksavl 
uhbzvnvxvliua,gubuzlvootgzknrlxgmuzugvl gbmuzugrlgbmugnvxsuguhwvlaugkp
bmugrfvxrlvbrkl--

gggggggggggggg“Arisbgvesvgbzufsosfgov.zrags.rgosfulgvmulra,
gggggggggggggggAkougzuwuzisaasf,gvsbgzv rvlbragrfvxrlugoslvu,
gggggggggggggggKflrvgwuznkorbvbgovbugokiv;gyvfesugas.gvszva
gggggggggggggggUzrxrbsz,gasffresugpuzrbgovesuvzrvgbuibrj”

ggggg[“Vagqmulgrlg.zvdulgnvbagkpgqvbuzgbmugbzuf.orlxg.uvfagkpgorxmb,
gggggzupouibu gpzkfgbmugasl,gkzgpzkfgbmugrfvxugkpgbmugzv rvlbgfkkl,
gggggaqrpbotgpokvbgknuzgunuztgwoviugvzksl ,gvl glkqgvzug vzbu gswgkl
gggggmrxm,gvl gabzrcugbmugiurorlxagkpgbmugswfkabgzkkpj”--
gggggVUlur ,gnrrrjg22j]

--rlgqmrimgqro gvxrbvbrklgbmuzugraglkgpkoot,glkzgr ougpvlitgbmutg kglkb
orxmbgswkl:--

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nuosbgvuxzrgakflrv,gnvlvu
gggggggggggggggPrlxslbszgawuiruaj”

ggggg[“Vagvgaricgfvl’ag zuvfa,gizuvbrlxgnvrlgwmvlbvafaj”--
gggggMkzj,g ugVzbugWkubriv,g7j]

Bmugaksogbmvbgmvaglkguabv.oramu gvrfgokauagrbauop,gpkz,gvagrbgragavr --

gggggggggg“Esraesrags.resugmv.rbvb,gFvhrfu,glsaesvfgmv.rbvbj”

ggggg[“Mugqmkgornuagunuztqmuzu,gornuaglkqmuzuj”--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjgg73j]

QmulgRgovbuotgzubrzu gbkgftgkqlgmksau,gqrbmgvgzuakosbrkl,gvagfsimgva
wkaar.otgRgikso ,gbkgvnkr gvoogfvlluzgkpgikliuzlgrlgvppvrza,gvl gbkgawul 
rlgwzrnvitgvl gzuwkaugbmugorbbougzufvrl uzgkpgbrfugRgmvnugbkgornu,gR
pvliru gRgikso glkbgfkzugk.orxugftgfrl gbmvlgbkgasppuzgrbgvbgpsoogouraszu
bkgulbuzbvrlgvl g rnuzbgrbauop,gqmrimgRglkqgmkwu grbgfrxmbgmuliupkzbmg k,
vag.urlxg.tgbrfug.uikfugfkzugaubbou gvl gfvbszu;g.sbgRgprl --

ggggggggggggggg“Nvzrvfgaufwuzg vlbgkbrvgfulbuf,”

ggggg[“Ouraszugunuzgizuvbuagnvzru gbmksxmbj”--Osivl,grnjg704]

bmvb,gesrbugiklbzvzt,grbgragorcugvgmkzaugbmvbgmvag.zkcugpzkfgmragzr uz,
qmkgnkoslbvzrotgzslagrlbkgvgfsimgfkzugnrkoulbgivzuuzgbmvlgvltgmkzaufvl
qkso gwsbgmrfgbk,gvl gizuvbuagfugakgfvltgimrfvuzvagvl gpvlbvabri
fklabuza,gklugswklgvlkbmuz,gqrbmksbgkz uzgkzg uarxl,gbmvb,gbmug.ubbuzgvb
ouraszugbkgiklbufwovbugbmurzgabzvlxuluaagvl gv.asz rbt,gRgmvnug.uxslgbk
ikffrbgbmufgbkgqzrbrlx,gmkwrlxgrlgbrfugbkgfvcugrbgvamvfu gkpgrbauopj




IMVWBUZgRH

KPgORVZA

Bmuzugraglkbgvgfvlgornrlxgqmkfgrbgqkso gakgorbboug.uikfugbkgawuvcgpzkf
fufkztgvagftauop,gpkzgRgmvnugaivziuotgvltgvbgvoo,gvl g kglkbgbmrlcgbmvb
bmugqkzo gmvagvlkbmuzgakgfvznuooksaotgbzuvimuzksagvagfrlujggFtgkbmuz
pvisobruagvzugvoogaspprirulbotgkz rlvztgvl gfuvl;g.sbgrlgbmragRgbmrlc
ftauopgnuztgzvzugvl garlxsovz,gvl g uauznrlxgbkg.ugbmksxmbgpvfksaj
.uar uagbmuglvbszvogrliklnulruliugRgasppuzg.tgrbg(pkz,giuzbua,gbmu
luiuaavztgsaugkpgfufkztgiklar uzu ,gWovbkgmv gzuvaklgqmulgmugivoou grbgv
xzuvbgvl gwkquzpsogxk  uaa),grlgftgikslbzt,gqmulgbmutgqkso gavtgvgfvlgmva
lkgaulau,gbmutgavt,gasimgvlgklugmvaglkgfufkzt;gvl gqmulgRgikfwovrlgkpgbmu
 upuibgkpgfrlu,gbmutg kglkbg.uorunugfu,gvl gzuwzknugfu,gvagbmksxmgR
viisau gftauopgpkzgvgpkko:glkbg raiuzlrlxgbmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgfufkzt
vl gsl uzabvl rlx,gqmrimgragbkgfvcugfvbbuzagabroogqkzaugpkzgfujgg.sbgbmut
 kgfugqzklx;gpkzguhwuzruliu,gzvbmuz,g vrotgamkqagsa,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,
bmvbgvgabzklxgfufkztgragikffklotgikswou gqrbmgrlprzfgys xfulbjggBmutg k,
fu,gfkzuknuzg(qmkgvfgakgwuzpuibgrlglkbmrlxgvagrlgpzrul amrw),gvgxzuvb
qzklxgrlgbmra,gbmvbgbmutgfvcugbmugavfugqkz agqmrimgviisaugftgrlprzfrbt,
zuwzuaulbgfugpkzgvlgslxzvbupsogwuzakl;gbmutg.zrlxgftgvppuibrklagrlbk
esuabrklgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgftgfufkzt,gvl gpzkfgvglvbszvogrfwuzpuibrkl,
fvcugksbgvg upuibgkpgiklairuliujgg“Mugmvagpkzxkb,”gavtagklu,g“bmra
zuesuab,gkzgbmvbgwzkfrau;gmuglkgfkzugzufuf.uzagmragpzrul a;gmugmvagpkzxkb
bkgavtgkzg k,gkzgikliuvogasimgvl gasimgvgbmrlx,gpkzgftgavcuj”ggVl ,
bzsot,gRgvfgvwbgulksxmgbkgpkzxubgfvltgbmrlxa,g.sbgbkgluxouibgvltbmrlxgft
pzrul gmvagxrnulgfugrlgimvzxu,gRglunuzg kgrbjggVl grbgamkso g.ugulksxm,
fubmrlca,gbmvbgRgpuuogbmugfrauztgvl grliklnulruliugkpgrb,gqrbmksb
.zvl rlxgfugqrbmgfvoriu,gvgnriugakgiklbzvztgbkgftgmsfkszj

Mkqunuz,gRg uzrnugbmuaugikfpkzbagpzkfgftgrlprzfrbt:gprzab,gbmvbgrbgragvl
unrogpzkfgqmrimgwzrlirwvootgRgmvnugpksl gzuvaklgbkgikzzuibgvgqkzau,gbmvb
qkso guvarotgulksxmgmvnugxzkqlgswklgfu,glvfuot,gvf.rbrkl;gbmug upuib
.urlxgrlbkouzv.ougrlgbmkaugqmkgbvcugswklgbmufgws.origvppvrzajggBmvb,gorcu
uhvfwouagrlgbmugwzkxzuaagkpglvbszug ufklabzvbugbkgsa,gamugmvagpkzbrpru 
fugrlgftgkbmuzgpvisobruagwzkwkzbrklv.otgvagamugmvagoupbgfugslpszlramu grl
bmra;gRgamkso gkbmuzqraugmvnug.uulgvwbgrfworirbotgbkgmvnugzuwkau gftgfrl 
vl gys xfulbgswklgbmug.vzugzuwkzbgkpgkbmuzgful,gqrbmksbgunuzgaubbrlxgbmuf
bkgqkzcgswklgbmurzgkqlgpkziu,gmv gbmugrlnulbrklagvl gkwrlrklagkpgkbmuza
.uulgunuzg.uulgwzuaulbgqrbmgfug.tgbmug.uluprbgkpgfufkztjggBmvbg.tgbmra
fuvlagRgvfglkbgakgbvocvbrnu,gpkzgbmugfvxvdrlugkpgbmugfufkztgragunuz
.ubbuzgpszlramu gqrbmgfvbbuzgbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmugrlnulbrkljggMv gfrlug.uul
pvrbmpsogbkgfu,gRgmv guzugbmrag uvpulu gvoogftgpzrul agqrbmgftg.v..ou,
bmugas.yuibagbmufauonuagvzksarlxgvl gabrzzrlxgswgbmugorbbougpvisobtgR
mvnugkpgmvl orlxgvl gufwoktrlxgbmuf,gmuvbrlxgvl g rabul rlxgftg raikszau,
qmrimgquzugvgwrbt:gvagRgmvnugk.auznu grlgaunuzvogkpgftgrlbrfvbugpzrul a,
qmk,gvagbmurzgfufkzruagaswwotgbmufgqrbmgvlgulbrzugvl gpsoognruqgkp
bmrlxa,g.uxrlgbmurzglvzzvbrnugakgpvzg.vic,gvl gizkq grbgqrbmgakgfvlt
rfwuzbrlulbgirzisfabvliua,gbmvbgbmksxmgbmugabkztg.ugxkk grlgrbauop,gbmut
fvcugvgamrpbgbkgawkrogrb;gvl grpgkbmuzqrau,gtksgvzugurbmuzgbkgiszaugbmu
abzulxbmgkpgbmurzgfufkztgkzgbmugquvcluaagkpgbmurzgys xfulb:gvl grbgragv
mvz gbmrlxgbkgiokaugswgvg raikszau,gvl gbkgisbgrbgamkzb,gqmulgtksgmvnu
kliugabvzbu ;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgqmuzurlgbmugpkziugkpgvgmkzaugragakgfsim
auulgvagrlgvgzksl gvl gas  ulgabkwjggRgauugunulgbmkaugqmkgvzugwuzbrlulb
ulksxm,gqmkgqkso ,g.sbgivllkbgabkwgamkzbgrlgbmurzgivzuuz;gpkzgqmroabgbmut
vzugauucrlxgksbgvgmvl akfugwuzrk gbkgiklios ugqrbm,gbmutgxkgklgvbgzvl kf,
abzvxxorlxgv.ksbgswklgrfwuzbrlulbgbzrnrvorbrua,gvagfulgabvxxuzrlxgswkl
quvcgouxajgg.sb,gv.knugvoo,gko gfulgqmkgzubvrlgbmugfufkztgkpgbmrlxagwvab,
vl gpkzxubgmkqgkpbulgbmutgmvnugbko gbmuf,gvzug vlxuzksagikfwvlt;gvl gR
mvnugclkqlgabkzruagpzkfgbmugfksbmgkpgvgfvlgkpgnuztgxzuvbgesvorbt,
kbmuzqraugnuztgwouvavlbgrlgbmufauonua,g.uikfugnuztgquvzrakfug.tg.urlx
zuwuvbu gvgmsl zu gbrfuagknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrlgbkgbmugavfugwukwouj

Auikl ot,gbmvb,g.tgbmragfuvla,gRgbmugouaagzufuf.uzgbmugrlyszruagRgmvnu
zuiurnu ;grlakfsimgbmvb,gvagbmugvlirulbgavr ,--[Iriuzk,gWzkgOrxvzj
ijg12j]--Rgamkso gmvnugvgzuxrabuzgkpgrlyszrua,gkzgvgwzkfwbuz,gvag vzrsa,
qmk,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgpkzxubgbmugkppuliugmugmv gzuiurnu gpzkfgbmkaugkp
Vbmula,gakgkpbgvagmugavbg kqlgbkg rlluz,gkz uzu gklugkpgmragwvxuagbmzuu
brfuagbkgzuwuvbgrlgmraguvz,g“Arz,gzufuf.uzgbmugVbmulrvla”;--[Muzk j,gnj
105j]--vl gbmul,gvxvrl,gbmugwoviuagqmrimgRgzunrarb,gvl gbmug.kkcagRgzuv 
knuzgvxvrl,gabroogafrougswklgfugqrbmgvgpzuamglknuobtj

Rbgraglkbgqrbmksbgxkk gzuvaklgavr g“bmvbgmugqmkgmvaglkbgvgxkk gfufkzt
amkso glunuzgbvcugswklgmrfgbmugbzv ugkpgotrlxj”ggRgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvb
bmugxzvffvzrvla--[Lrxr rsa,gVsosagXuoorsa,ghrjggrr;gLklrsa,gnjgg80j]--
 rabrlxsramg.ubqrhbgvlgslbzsbmgvl gvgoru,gvl gavtgbmvbgbkgbuoogvlgslbzsbm
ragbkgbuoogvgbmrlxgbmvbgragpvoau,g.sbgbmvbgqugkszauonuag.uorunugbkg.u
bzsu;gvl gbmvbgbmug uprlrbrklgkpgbmugqkz gbkgorugrlgOvbrl,gpzkfgqmrimgksz
Pzulimgragbvcul,gragbkgbuoogvgbmrlxgqmrimgqugclkqgrlgkszgiklairuliugbkg.u
slbzsu;gvl grbgragkpgbmragovabgakzbgkpgorvzagklotgbmvbgRglkqgawuvcjggLkq,
bmuaug kgurbmuzgqmkootgiklbzrnugvl grlnulbgbmugslbzsbmagbmutgsbbuz,gkzgak
vobuzgvl g raxsraugvgbzsugabkztgbmvbgrbgul agrlgvgorujggQmulgbmut
 raxsraugvl gkpbulgvobuzgbmugavfugabkzt,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkqlgpvlit,
‘bragnuztgmvz gpkzgbmuf,gvbgklugbrfugkzgvlkbmuz,gbkguaivwug.urlxgbzvwwu ,
.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmugzuvogbzsbmgkpgbmugbmrlx,gmvnrlxgprzabgbvculgwkaauaarkl
kpgbmugfufkzt,gvl g.urlxgbmuzugok xu grfwzuaau g.tgbmugfu rsfgkp
clkqou xugvl gairuliu,grbgqroog.ug rpprisobgbmvbgrbgamkso glkbgzuwzuaulb
rbauopgbkgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gamkso uzgksbgpvoaumkk ,gqmrimgivllkbgbmuzu
mvnugakgaszugvl gaubbou gpkkbrlxgvagbmugkbmuz;gvl gbmugirzisfabvliuagkp
bmugprzabgbzsugclkqou xugunuzfkzugzsllrlxgrlgbmurzgfrl a,gqroog.ugvwbgbk
fvcugbmufgpkzxubgbmkaugbmvbgvzugroouxrbrfvbu,gvl gklot,gpkzxu g.tgbmurz
kqlgpvlitjggRlgqmvbgbmut,gqmkootgrlnulb,gpkzvafsimgvagbmuzugraglk
iklbzvztgrfwzuaarklgbkgykabougbmurzgrlnulbrklgbmuzugauufagbkg.ugouaa
 vlxuzgkpgbzrwwrlx;gvl gtubgunulgbmrag.tgzuvaklgrbgragvgnvrlg.k tgvl 
qrbmksbgvltgmko ,gragnuztgvwbgbkguaivwugbmugfufkzt,grpgrbg.uglkbgquoo
vaaszu jggKpgqmrimgRgmv gnuztgwouvavlbguhwuzruliu,gvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgasim
vagwzkpuaagklotgbkgpkzfgvl gviikffk vbugbmurzgawuuimgbkgbmugvppvrzgbmut
mvnugrlgmvl ,gkzgbkgmsfkszgkpgbmugxzuvbgpkocagbkgqmkfgbmutgvzugawuvcrlx;
pkzgbmugirzisfabvliuagbkgqmrimgbmuaugfulgabricglkbgbkgulaovnugbmurzgpvrbm
vl giklairuliug.urlxgas.yuibgbkgaunuzvogimvlxua,gbmurzgovlxsvxugfsabgnvzt
viikz rlxot:gqmuliugrbgmvwwulagbmvbgkpgbmugavfugbmrlxgbmutgbuoogklugfvl
bmvbgrbgragbmra,gvl gvlkbmuzgbmvbgrbgragbmvb,gxrnrlxgrbgaunuzvogikoksza;
qmrimgful,grpgbmutgkliugikfugbkgiklpuzglkbua,gvl gprl gksbgbmugimuvb,
qmvbg.uikfuagkpgbmragprlugvzb?ggBkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,gbmvbgbmutgfsabgkp
luiuaarbtgnuztgkpbulgzr risoksaotgbzvwgbmufauonua;gpkzgqmvbgfufkztgivlg.u
aspprirulbgbkgzubvrlgakgfvltg rppuzulbgamvwuagvagbmutgmvnugpkzxu gswkl
klugvl gbmugavfugas.yuib?ggRgmvnugclkqlgfvltgrlgftgbrfugnuztgvf.rbrksagkp
bmugzuwsbugkpgbmragprlugqrb;g.sbgbmutg kglkbgauugbmvbgrpgbmutgmvnugbmu
zuwsbvbrklgkpgrb,gbmuguppuibgivlglkgoklxuzg.uj

Rlgwovrlgbzsbm,gotrlxgragvlgviiszau gnriujggQugvzuglkbgful,glkzgmvnu
kbmuzgbrugswklgklugvlkbmuz,g.sbg.tgkszgqkz jggRpgqug r g.sbg raiknuzgbmu
mkzzkzgvl gxzvnrbtgkpgrb,gqugamkso gwszasugrbgqrbmgprzugvl gaqkz ,gvl 
fkzugysabotgbmvlgkbmuzgizrfuajggRgauugbmvbgwvzulbagikffklot,gvl gqrbm
rl raizubrklgulksxm,gikzzuibgbmurzgimro zulgpkzgorbbougrllkiulbgpvsoba,
vl gbkzfulbgbmufgpkzgqvlbklgbzrica,gbmvbgmvnuglurbmuzgrfwzuaarklglkz
iklauesuliu;gqmuzuva,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gotrlxgklot,gvl ,gqmrimgragkp
akfubmrlxgvgokquzgpkzf,gk.abrlvit,gvzugbmugpvsobagqmrimgvzugbkg.u
aunuzuotgqmrwwu gksbgkpgbmuf,g.kbmgrlgbmurzgrlpvlitgvl grlgbmurz
wzkxzuaa,gkbmuzqraugbmutgxzkqgswgvl grlizuvaugqrbmgbmuf;gvl gvpbuzgv
bklxsugmvagkliugxkbgbmugclvicgkpgotrlx,g‘braglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gmkq
rfwkaar.ougrbgragbkgzuiovrfgrbgqmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaagbmvbgqugauugakfu,
qmkgvzugkbmuzqraugnuztgmkluabgful,gakgas.yuibgvl gulaovnu gbkgbmragnriuj
Rgmvnugvlgmkluabgov gbkgftgbvrokz,gqmkfgRglunuzgcluqgxsrobtgkpgklugbzsbm,
lk,glkbgqmulgrbgmv g.uulgbkgmragv nvlbvxujggRpgpvoaumkk gmv ,gorcugbzsbm,
.sbgklugpviugklot,gqugamkso g.ugswklg.ubbuzgbuzfa;gpkzgqugamkso gbmul
bvcugpkzgiuzbvrlgbmugiklbzvztgbkgqmvbgbmugorvzgavta:g.sbgbmugzunuzaugkp
bzsbmgmvagvgmsl zu gbmksavl gpkzfa,gvl gvgpruo grl uprlrbu,gqrbmksbg.ksl 
kzgorfrbjggBmugWtbmvxkzuvlagfvcugxkk gbkg.ugiuzbvrlgvl gprlrbu,gvl gunro,
rlprlrbugvl gsliuzbvrljggBmuzugvzugvgbmksavl gqvtagbkgfraagbmugqmrbu,
bmuzugragklotgklugbkgmrbgrbjggPkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gRgmvnugbmragnriugrlgak
xzuvbgmkzzkz,gbmvbgRgvfglkbgaszugRgikso gwzunvrogqrbmgftgiklairuliugbk
auiszugftauopgpzkfgbmugfkabgfvlrpuabgvl guhbzufug vlxuzg.tgvlgrfws ulb
vl gakouflgorujggVlgvlirulbgpvbmuzgavtag“bmvbgvg kxgqugclkqgrag.ubbuz
ikfwvltgbmvlgvgfvlgqmkaugovlxsvxugqug kglkbgsl uzabvl j”


gggggggggg“Sbguhbuzlsagvorulkgwuluglklgarbgmkfrlragnriuj”

ggggg[“Vagvgpkzurxluzgivllkbg.ugavr gbkgaswwotgsagbmugwoviugkpgvgfvlj”
gggggg--Worlt,gLvbjgMrabjgnrrjgR]

Vl gmkqgfsimgouaagakirv.ougragpvoaugawuvcrlxgbmvlgarouliu?

CrlxgPzvliragRjgnvslbu gbmvbgmugmv g.tgbmragfuvlaglklwosaau gPzvliuaik
Bvnuzlv,gvf.vaav kzgkpgPzvliuaikgApkzdv,g scugkpgFrovl,gvgfvlgnuztgpvfksa
pkzgmragairuliugrlgbvocrlxgrlgbmkaug vtajggBmragxulboufvlgmv g.uulgaulb
bkguhisaugmragfvabuzgbkgmragFvyuabtgv.ksbgvgbmrlxgkpgnuztgxzuvb
iklauesuliu,gqmrimgqvagbmra:gbmugCrlx,gabroogbkgfvrlbvrlgakfu
rlbuoorxuliugqrbmgRbvot,gksbgkpgqmrimgmugmv govbuotg.uulg zrnul,gvl 
wvzbrisovzotgqrbmgbmug simtgkpgFrovl,gmv gbmksxmbgrbgiklnulrulbgbkgmvnugv
xulboufvlgklgmrag.umvopgbkg.ugqrbmgbmvbg scu:gvlgvf.vaav kzgrlguppuib,
.sbgrlgksbqvz gvwwuvzvliugvgwzrnvbugwuzaklgqmkgwzubul u gbkgzuar ugbmuzu
swklgmragkqlgwvzbrisovzgvppvrza;gpkzgbmug scu,gfsimgfkzug uwul rlxgswkl
bmugUfwuzkz,guawuirvootgvbgvgbrfugqmulgmugqvagrlgvgbzuvbtgkpgfvzzrvxu
qrbmgmraglruiu,g vsxmbuzgbkgbmugCrlxgkpg ulfvzc,gqmkgraglkqg kqvxuzgkp
Okzzvrlu,gikso glkbgfvlrpuabgvltgwzvibriugvl giklpuzuliugqrbmgsagqrbmksb
mragxzuvbgrlbuzuabjggPkzgbmragikffraarklgklugFuznuroou,gvgFrovluau
xulboufvl,gvl gvlguesuzztgbkgbmugCrlx,g.urlxgbmksxmbgnuztgprb,gqva
viikz rlxotg uawvbimu gbmrbmuzgqrbmgwzrnvbugizu ulbrvoa,gvl grlabzsibrkla
vagvf.vaav kz,gvl gqrbmgkbmuzgoubbuzagkpgzuikfful vbrklgbkgbmug scugv.ksb
mragkqlgwzrnvbugikliuzla,gbmug.ubbuzgbkgfvacgvl gikokszgbmug.sarluaa;gvl 
qvagakgoklxgrlgbmvbgikszb,gbmvbgbmugUfwuzkzgvbgovabgmv gakfugrlcorlxgkp
mragzuvogufwoktfulbgbmuzu;gqmrimgqvagbmugkiivarklgkpgqmvbgpkookqu gvpbuz,
vagqugaswwkau;gqmrimgqva,gbmvbgsl uzgwzubuliugkpgakfugfsz uz,gmragbzrvo
qvagrlgbqkg vtag uawvbimu ,gvl gmragmuv grlgbmuglrxmbgabzsicgkppgrl
wzrakljggFuaarzugPzvliuaikg.urlxgikfu,gvl gwzuwvzu gqrbmgvgoklx
ikslbuzpurbgmrabkztgkpgbmugvppvrzg(pkzgbmugCrlxgmv gvwworu gmrfauopgbk
voogbmugwzrliuagkpgImzrabul kf,gvagquoogvagbkgbmug scugmrfauop,gbkg ufvl 
avbrapvibrkl),gmv gmragvs ruliugvbgbmugfkzlrlxgiksliro;gqmuzu,gvpbuzgmu
mv gpkzgbmugaswwkzbgkpgmragivsaugovr gkwulgaunuzvogwovsar.ou
ysabrprivbrklagkpgbmugpvib,gbmvbgmragfvabuzgmv glunuzgokkcu gswklgbmra
Fuznuroougpkzgkbmuzgbmvlgvgwzrnvbugxulboufvlgvl gmragkqlgas.yuib,gqmkgqva
bmuzugklotgrlgkz uzgbkgmragkqlg.sarluaa,glurbmuzgmv gmugunuzgornu gsl uz
vltgkbmuzgvawuib;gv.akosbuotg rakqlrlxgbmvbgmugmv gunuzgmuvz gmugqvagklu
kpgbmugCrlx’agmksaumko gkzgbmvbgmragFvyuabtgakgfsimgvagcluqgmrf,gakgpvz
qvagmugpzkfgbvcrlxgmrfgpkzgvlgvf.vaav kz:gbmugCrlx,grlgmragbszl,gwzuaarlx
mrfgqrbmgaunuzvogk.yuibrklagvl g ufvl a,gvl gimvooulxrlxgmrfgklgvoo
ar ua,gbzrwwu gmrfgswgvbgovabg.tgvacrlx,gqmt,gbmul,gbmuguhuisbrklgqva
wuzpkzfu g.tglrxmb,gvl gvagrbgquzug.tgabuvobm?ggVbgqmrimgbmugwkkz
iklpksl u gvf.vaav kz,gbmugfkzugmvl akfuotgbkg raulxvxugmrfauop,gfv u
vlaquz,gbmvbgbmug scugqkso gmvnug.uulgnuztgokbm,gksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgmra
Fvyuabt,gbmvbgasimgvlguhuisbrklgamkso gmvnug.uulgwuzpkzfu g.tg vtjggVlt
klugfvtgxsuaagrpgmugqvaglkbgquoogzvbu gqmulgmugivfugmkfu,gpkzgmvnrlxgak
xzkaaotgbzrwwu grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvgwzrliugkpgakg uorivbugvglkabzrogva
CrlxgPzvliraj

WkwugYsorsagRRjgmvnrlxgaulbgvlgvf.vaav kzgbkgbmugCrlxgkpgUlxovl gbk
vlrfvbugmrfgvxvrlabgCrlxgPzvlira,gbmugvf.vaav kzgmvnrlxgmv gmragvs ruliu,
vl gbmugCrlx,g.upkzugmugqkso gxrnugvlgvlaquz,grlarabrlxgswklgbmu
 rpprisobruagmugamkso gprl grlgaubbrlxgklgpkkbgakgxzuvbgvgwzuwvzvbrklgva
qkso g.ugluiuaavztgbkgvbbvicgakgwkbulbgvgCrlx,gvl gszxrlxgakfugzuvaklagbk
bmvbguppuib,gbmugvf.vaav kzgnuztgslauvaklv.otgzuworu gbmvbgmugmv gvoak
mrfauopgiklar uzu gbmugavfug rpprisobrua,gvl gmv gzuwzuaulbu gbmufgbkgbmu
WkwujggPzkfgqmrimgavtrlxgkpgmra,gakg rzuibotgkwwkarbugbkgbmugbmrlx
wzkwksl u gvl gbmug.sarluaagmugivfugv.ksb,gqmrimgqvagrffu rvbuotgbk
rlirbugmrfgbkgqvz,gbmugCrlxgkpgUlxovl gprzabg uzrnu gbmugvzxsfulbg(qmrim
mugvpbuzqvz gpksl gbkg.ugbzsu),gbmvbgbmragvf.vaav kz,grlgmragkqlgfrl ,
qvagklgbmugar ugkpgbmugPzulim;gkpgqmrimgmvnrlxgv nuzbrau gmragfvabuz,gmra
uabvbugvbgmragzubszlgmkfugqvagiklpraivbu ,gvl gmugmrfauopgnuztglvzzkqot
uaivwu gbmugokarlxgkpgmragmuv j--[UzvafrgKwjg(1703),grnjgikojg684j]




IMVWBUZgH

KPgESRICgKZgAOKQgAWUUIM

gggggggggg“Kliglugpszulbgvgbksbagbksbuagxzviuag klluuaj”

ggggg[“Voogxzviuagquzuglunuzgtubgxrnulgbkgvltgklugfvlj”--Vgnuzau
gggggrlgklugkpgOvg.zu.ra’gAkllubaj]

Akgqugauugrlgbmugxrpbgkpguokesuliu,gqmuzurlgakfugmvnugasimgvgpvirorbtgvl 
wzkfwbluaa,gvl gbmvbgqmrimgqugivoogvgwzuaulbgqrbgakguvat,gbmvbgbmutgvzu
unuzgzuv tgswklgvoogkiivarkla,gvl glunuzgbkg.ugaszwzrau ;gvl gkbmuzagfkzu
muvntgvl gaokq,glunuzgnulbszugbkgsbbuzgvltbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgbmutgmvnugoklx
wzufu rbvbu ,gvl gbvculgxzuvbgivzugvl gwvrlagbkgprbgvl gwzuwvzuj

Lkq,gvagqugbuvimgtkslxgov ruagbmkaugawkzbagvl guhuzirauagqmrimgvzugfkab
wzkwuzgbkgaubgksbgbmugxzviugvl g.uvsbtgkpgbmkaugwvzbagqmuzurlgbmurz
imrupuabgkzlvfulbgvl gwuzpuibrklgoru,gakgrbgamkso g.ugrlgbmuaugbqk
v nvlbvxuagkpguokesuliu,gbkgqmrimgbmugovqtuzagvl gwzuvimuzagkpgkszgvxu
auufgwzrlirwvootgbkgwzubul jggRpgRgquzugqkzbmtgbkgv nrau,gbmugaokq
awuvcuz,gfubmrlca,gamkso g.ugfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgbmugwsowrb,gvl gbmugkbmuz
pkzgbmug.vz:gvl gbmvbg.uivsaugbmugufwoktfulbgkpgbmugprzabg kuaglvbszvoot
vookqgmrfgvoogbmugouraszugmugivlg uarzugbkgwzuwvzugmrfauop,gvl g.uar ua,
mragivzuuzgragwuzpkzfu grlgvlgunulgvl gslrlbuzfrbbu gorlu,gqrbmksbgabkw
kzgrlbuzzswbrkl;gqmuzuvagbmugwouv uz’ag.sarluaagvl grlbuzuabgikfwuoagmrf
bkgulbuzgbmugorabagswklgvoogkiivarkla,gvl gbmugsluhwuibu gk.yuibrklagvl 
zuworuagkpgmragv nuzaugwvzbtgykabougmrfgksbgkpgmragikszau,gvl gwsbgmrf,
swklgbmugrlabvlb,gbkgwsfwgpkzgluqgvl guhbufwkzugvlaquzagvl g upuliuaj
Tub,gvbgbmugrlbuznruqg.ubqrhbgWkwugIoufulbgvl gCrlxgPzvliragvb
Fvzaurooua,grbgmvwwulu ,gesrbugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgFklaruszgWktub,gvgfvlg.zu 
swgvoogmragorpugvbgbmug.vz,gvl grlgbmugmrxmuabgzuwsbugpkzguokesuliu,
mvnrlxgbmugimvzxugkpgfvcrlxgbmugmvzvlxsugbkgbmugWkwugikffrbbu gbkgmrf,
vl gmvnrlxgakgoklxgfu rbvbu gklgrbg.upkzumvl ,gva,gakgbmutgavr ,gbkgmvnu
.zksxmbgrbgzuv tgfv ugvoklxgqrbmgmrfgpzkfgWvzra;gbmugnuztg vtgrbgqvagbk
mvnug.uulgwzklksliu ,gbmugWkwu,gpuvzrlxgakfubmrlxgfrxmbg.ugavr gbmvb
frxmbgxrnugkppuliugbkgbmugkbmuzgwzrliua’gvf.vaav kzagqmkgquzugbmuzu
vbbul rlxgklgmrf,gaulbgbkgviesvrlbgbmugCrlxgqrbmgbmugvzxsfulbgqmrimgmu
ikliurnu gfkabgasrbrlxgbkgbmugbrfugvl gwoviu,g.sb,g.tgimvliu,gesrbu
vlkbmuzgbmrlxgbkgbmvbgFklaruszg ugWktubgmv gbvculgakgfsimgwvrlagv.ksb:gak
bmvbgbmugprlugawuuimgmugmv gwzuwvzu gqvagkpglkgsau,gvl gmugqvagswklgbmu
rlabvlbgbkgiklbzrnugvlkbmuz;gqmrimgprl rlxgmrfauopgslv.ougbkg k,gIvz rlvo
 sg.uoovtgqvagiklabzvrlu gbkgwuzpkzfgbmvbgkppriujggBmugwouv uz’agwvzbgra,
 ks.bouaa,gfsimgmvz uzgbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmugwzuvimuz;gvl gtub,grlgftgkwrlrkl,
qugauugfkzugwvaav.ougovqtuzagbmvlgwzuvimuza,gvbgvoogunulbagrlgPzvliuj
Rbgamkso gauufgbmvbgbmuglvbszugkpgqrbgragbkgmvnugrbagkwuzvbrklgwzkfwbgvl 
as  ul,gvl gbmvbgkpgys xfulbgbkgmvnugrbgfkzug uor.uzvbugvl gfkzugaokqj
.sbgmugqmkgzufvrlagbkbvootgaroulb,gpkzgqvlbgkpgouraszugbkgwzuwvzugmrfauop
bkgawuvcgquoo,gvl gmugvoakgqmkfgouraszug kuaglkqvtag.uluprbgbkg.ubbuz
awuvcrlx,gvzuguesvootgslmvwwtj

‘Bragavr gkpgAunuzsagIvaarsagbmvbgmugawkcug.uabguhbufwkzu,gbmvbgmugabkk 
fkzugk.orxu gbkgpkzbslugbmvlgbkgmragkqlg rorxuliu;gbmvbgrbgqvagvl
v nvlbvxugbkgmrfgbkg.ugrlbuzzswbu grlgawuvcrlx,gvl gbmvbgmragv nuzavzrua
quzugvpzvr gbkglubbougmrf,gouabgmragvlxuzgamkso gzu ks.ougmraguokesuliuj
Rgclkq,guhwuzrfulbvoot,gbmug rawkarbrklgkpglvbszugakgrfwvbrulbgkpgbu rksa
vl guov.kzvbugwzufu rbvbrkl,gbmvbgrpgrbg kglkbgxkgpzvlcotgvl gxvrotgbk
qkzc,grbgivlgwuzpkzfglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkaujggQugavtgkpgakfugikfwkarbrkla
bmvbgbmutgabrlcgkpgkrogvl gkpgbmugovfw,g.tgzuvaklgkpgvgiuzbvrlgzksxm
mvzamluaagbmvbgov.kzrksagmvl orlxgrfwzrlbagswklgbmkaugqmuzugrbgmvag.uul
ufwoktu jgg.sbg.uar uagbmra,gbmugakorirbs ugkpg krlxgquoo,gvl gvgiuzbvrl
abzrnrlxgvl giklbul rlxgkpgvgfrl gbkkgpvzgabzvrlu gvl gknuz.ulbgswklgrba
sl uzbvcrlx,g.zuvcagvl gmrl uzagrbauopgorcugqvbuz,gbmvbg.tgpkziugkpgrba
kqlgwzuaarlxgnrkouliugvl gv.sl vliu,givllkbgprl gvgzuv tgraasugbmzksxm
bmugluicgkpgvg.kbbougkzgvglvzzkqgaosriujggRlgbmragikl rbrklgkpglvbszu,
kpgqmrimgRgvfglkqgawuvcrlx,gbmuzugragbmragvoak,gbmvbgrbgqkso glkbg.u
 rakz uzu gvl gabrfsovbu gqrbmgasimgwvaarklagvagbmugpsztgkpgIvaarsag(pkz
asimgvgfkbrklgqkso g.ugbkkgnrkoulbgvl gzs u);grbgqkso glkbg.ugykabou ,
.sbgakorirbu ;grbgqkso g.ugzksau gvl gmuvbu g.tgsluhwuibu ,gas  ul,gvl 
viir ulbvogkiivarklajggRpgrbg.ugoupbgbkgrbauop,grbgpovxagvl govlxsramua;
vxrbvbrklgklotgxrnuagrbgxzviugvl gnrxkszjggRgvfgvoqvtagqkzabgrlgftgkql
wkaauaarkl,gvl gqmulgqmkootgvbgftgkqlg rawkarbrkl:gviir ulbgmvagfkzu
brbougbkgvltbmrlxgbmvbgikfuagpzkfgfugbmvlgR;gkiivarkl,gikfwvlt,gvl gunul
bmugnuztgzrarlxgvl gpvoorlxgkpgftgkqlgnkriu,guhbzvibgfkzugpzkfgftgpvlit
bmvlgRgivlgprl ,gqmulgRgaksl gvl gufwoktgrbg.tgftauopjgg.tgqmrimgfuvla,
bmugbmrlxagRgavtgvzug.ubbuzgbmvlgbmkaugRgqzrbu,grpgurbmuzgquzugbkg.u
wzupuzzu ,gqmuzuglurbmuzgragqkzbmgvltbmrlxjggBmra,gvoak,g.upvooagfu,gbmvb
Rg kglkbgprl gftauopgqmuzugRgauucgftauop,gvl gRgorxmbgswklgbmrlxagfkzug.t
imvliugbmvlg.tgvltgrlesrarbrklgkpgftgkqlgys xfulbjggRgwuzmvwagakfubrfua
mrbgswklgakfubmrlxgqmulgRgqzrbu,gbmvbgauufagesvrlbgvl gawzrxmbotgbkgfu,
bmksxmgrbgqroogvwwuvzg soogvl gmuvntgbkgvlkbmuzj--.sbgoubgsagouvnugbmuau
prlugikfworfulba;gunuztgklugbvocagbmsagkpgmrfauopgviikz rlxgbkgmra
bvoulbjgg.sbgqmulgRgikfugbkgawuvc,gRgvfgvozuv tgakgokabgbmvbgRgclkqglkb
qmvbgRgqvagv.ksbgbkgavt,gvl grlgasimgivauagvgabzvlxuzgkpbulgprl agrbgksb
.upkzugfujggRpgRgamkso gfvcuguzvaszugakgkpbulgvagbmragrliklnulruliu
.upvooagfu,gRgamkso gfvcugiouvlgqkzc;gkiivarklgqroo,gvbgakfugkbmuzgbrfu,
ovtgrbgvagnrar.ougbkgfugvagbmugorxmb,gvl gfvcugfugqkl uzgqmvbgRgamkso 
abricgvbj




IMVWBUZgHR

KPgWZKXLKABRIVBRKLA

Pkzgqmvbgikliuzlagkzvioua,grbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgvgxkk gqmroug.upkzugbmu
ikfrlxgkpgYuasagImzrabgbmutgmv g.uxslgbkgokaugbmurzgizu rb;gpkzgqugauu
bmvbgIriuzkgbzks.ou gbkgprl gksbgbmugivsaugkpgbmurzg uivt,gvl gmugmva
bmuaugqkz a:

gggggggggg“Iszgrabkgfk kgyvfgkzvisovg uowmraglklgu slbsz,
gggggggggglklgfk kglkabzkgvubvbu,gau gyvfg rs;gsbglrmro
ggggggggggwkaarbguaaugiklbufwbrsa?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgragbmugzuvaklgbmvbgbmugkzviouagvbg uowmrgvzuglkgoklxuz
gggggsbbuzu :glkbgfuzuotgrlgbmragvxugkpgksza,g.sbgpkzgvgoklxgbrfugwvab,
gggggrlakfsimgbmvbglkbmrlxgragfkzugrlgiklbufwb?”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grrjg57j]

.sbgvagbkgbmugkbmuzgwzkxlkabria,givoisovbu gpzkfgbmugvlvbkftgkpg.uvabagvb
avizrpriuag(bkgqmrimgwszwkaugWovbkg kua,grlgwvzb,gvbbzr.sbugbmuglvbszvo
iklabrbsbrklgkpgbmugrlbuabrluagkpgbmug.uvabagbmufauonua),gbmu
aizvwrlxgkpgwksobzt,gbmugporxmbgkpg.rz a--

gggggggggg“Vnuagesva vfgjggjggjggzuzsfgvsxszvl vzsf
ggggggggggivsavglvbvaguaaugwsbvfsaj”

ggggg[“Qugbmrlcgakfugakzbagkpg.rz agvzugwszwkauotgizuvbu gbkgauznu
gggggbmugwszwkauagkpgvsxsztj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grrjg64j]

iovwagkpgbmsl uz,gbmugknuzpokqrlxgkpgzrnuza--

gggggggggg“FsobvgiuzlslbgVzsawriua,gfsobvgVsxszuagwzknr ulb,
ggggggggggfsobvgkzvisorag uiovzvlbsz,gfsobvgnvbrirlvbrklr.sa,
ggggggggggfsobvgakflrra,gfsobvgwkzbulbraj”

ggggg[“BmugVzsawriuag raiuzlgfvltgbmrlxa,gbmugVsxszagpkzuauugfvltgbmrlxa,
gggggfvltgbmrlxagvzugvllksliu g.tgkzvioua,gfvltg.tgnvbrirlvbrkla,gfvltg.t
ggggg zuvfa,gfvltg.tgwkzbulbaj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grrjg65j]

--vl gkbmuzagkpgbmugorcuglvbszu,gswklgqmrimgvlbresrbtgpksl u gfkabgkp
bmurzgws.origvl gwzrnvbugulbuzwzraua,gkszgzuorxrklgmvagbkbvootgv.koramu 
bmufjggVl gvobmksxmgbmuzugtubgzufvrlgvfklxabgsagakfugwzvibriuagkp
 rnrlvbrklgpzkfgbmugabvza,gpzkfgawrzrba,gpzkfgbmugamvwuagvl gikfwouhrkla
kpgful,gpzkfg zuvfagvl gbmugorcug(vglkbv.ouguhvfwougkpgbmugqro giszrkarbt
kpgkszglvbszugbkgxzvawgvbgvl gvlbrirwvbugpsbszugbmrlxa,gvagrpgqugmv glkb
ulksxmgbkg kgbkg rxuabgbmugwzuaulb)--

ggggggggggggggg“Iszgmvligbr.r,gzuibkzgKotfwr,
gggggggggggggggAkoorirbragnrasfgfkzbvor.sagv  uzugiszvf,
gggggggggggggggLkaivlbgnulbszvagsbg rzvgwuzgkfrlvgiov ua?jjj
gggggggggggggggArbgas.rbsf,gesk isfesugwvzva;garbgikuivgpsbszr
gggggggggggggggFulagmkfrlsfgpvbr,goriuvbgawuzvzugbrfulbrj”

ggggg[“Qmt,gzsouzgkpgKotfwsa,gmvabgbmksgbkgvlhrksagfkzbvoagbmksxmbgprbgbk
gggggv  gbmragivzu,gbmvbgbmutgamkso gclkqg.t,gkfulagpsbszugaovsxmbuz?jjj
gggggOubgqmvbunuzgbmksgvzbgwzuwvzrlxg.ugas  uljggOubgbmugfrl gkpgfulg.u
ggggg.orl gbkgpvbugrlgabkzu;goubgrbg.ugwuzfrbbu gbkgbmugbrfr gbkgmkwuj”
gggggg--Osivl,grrjg14]

ggggggggggggggg“Lugsbrougesr ufguabgairzugesr gpsbszsfgarb;
gggggggggggggggfrauzsfguabgulrf,glrmrogwzkprirulbufgvlxr,”

ggggg[“Rbgragsauouaagbkgclkqgqmvbgamvoogikfugbkgwvaa;grbgragvgfrauzv.ou
gggggbmrlxgbkg.ugbkzfulbu gbkglkgwszwkauj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grrrjg6j]

tubgvzugbmutgkpgfsimgouaagvsbmkzrbtglkqgbmvlgmuzubkpkzujggQmrimgfvcuagak
fsimgfkzugzufvzcv.ougbmuguhvfwougkpgPzvliuaik,gFvzesragkpgAvosddk,gqmk
.urlxgorusbulvlbgbkgCrlxgPzvliragRjgrlgmragsobzvfklbvlugvzft,grlprlrbuot
pvnkszu gvl guabuufu grlgkszgikszb,gvl gk.orxu gbkgbmugcrlx’ag.kslbtgpkz
bmugfvzesravbugrbauop,gqmrimgmv g.uulgpkzpurbu g.tgmrag.zkbmuz;gvl gvagbk
bmugzuab,gmvnrlxglkgfvlluzgkpgwzknkivbrklgxrnulgmrfgbkg kgrb,gvl gunul
mragkqlgvppuibrklgkwwkarlxgvltgasimg raoktvobt,gasppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.ugak
buzzrpru ,gvagrbgqvagiklpr ulbotgzuwkzbu ,gqrbmgbmugprlugwzkxlkabriagbmvb
quzugawzuv gv.zkv gunuztqmuzugrlgpvnkszgkpgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNj,gvl gbk
kszg rav nvlbvxug(uawuirvootgrlgRbvot,gqmuzugbmuaugpkkoramgwzkwmuirua
quzugakgpvzg.uorunu ,gbmvbgvbgZkfugxzuvbgasfagkpgfklutgquzugnulbszu gksb
swklgzubszlgkpgxzuvbuz,gqmulgbmugwzkxlkabriagivfugbkgwvaa,gakgiuzbvrl
bmutgfv ugbmufauonuagkpgkszgzsrl),gbmvb,gmvnrlxgkpbulg.uqvrou ,gbkgbmkau
kpgmragviesvrlbvliugqmkgquzugfkabgrlbrfvbugqrbmgmrf,gbmugfraimrupagbmvb
mugavqgqkso grlunrbv.otgpvoogswklgbmugIzkqlgkpgPzvliugvl gbmugpzrul agmu
mv grlgbmvbgikszb,gmugzunkobu gvl gbszlu gbkgbmugkbmuzgar u;gbkgmragkql
frapkzbslu,glunuzbmuouaa,gqmvbgiklabuoovbrklgakunuzgxknuzlu gvbgbmvb
brfujgg.sbgmugivzzru gmrfauopgrlgbmragvppvrzgorcugvgfvlgvxrbvbu g.t
 rnuzagwvaarkla;gpkzgmvnrlxg.kbmgbkqlagvl gpkziuagrlgmragmvl a,gbmu
uluft’agvzftgsl uzgVlbklrkg ugOutnvgiokaug.tgmrf,gvl gquglkbgvbgvoo
asawuibrlxgmrag uarxl,grbgmv g.uulgrlgmragwkquzgbkgmvnug klugfkzugbmvlgmu
 r ;gpkzgqugokabglkgfulg.tgbmragrlpr uorbtgkpgmra,glkzgvltgbkql,g.sb
Pkaavlkgklot,gvl gbmvbgvpbuzgvgoklxgaruxugvl gvg.zvnug upuliuj--[1536]

ggggggggggggggggggg“Wzs ulagpsbszrgbufwkzraguhrbsf
ggggggggggggggggggggIvorxrlkavglkibugwzufrbg usa,
ggggggggggggggggggggZr ubesu,gargfkzbvoragsobzv
ggggggggggggggggggggPvagbzuwr vbj”

ggggg[“VgqraugXk giknuzagqrbmgbmricglrxmbgbmugwvbmgkpgbmugpsbszu,gvl 
gggggovsxmagvbgbmugfvlgqmkgvovzfagmrfauopgqrbmksbgzuvaklj”
gggggg--Mkzj,gK j,grrrjg29j]

gggggggggggggggggggg“Roougwkbulagasr
ggggggggggggggggggggOvubsaesug uxub,gisrgoriubgrlg ruf
gggggggggggggggggggg rhraaugnrhr!ggizvagnuogvbzv
ggggggggggggggggggggLs.ugwkosfgwvbuzgkiiswvbk,
ggggggggggggggggggggNuogakougwszkj”

ggggg[“Mugornuagmvwwtgvl gfvabuzgkpgmrfauopgqmkgivlgavtgvaguvimg vt
gggggwvaauagkl,g‘RgMVNUgORNU :’gqmubmuzgbk-fkzzkqgkszgPvbmuzgamvoogxrnu
gggggsagvgioks u gactgkzgvgiouvzg vtj”--Mkzj,gK j,grrrjg29]

gggggggggggggggggggg“Ovubsagrlgwzvuaulagvlrfsa;gesk gsobzvguab,
ggggggggggggggggggggK uzrbgiszvzuj”

ggggg[“Vgfrl gmvwwt,gimuuzpsogrlgbmugwzuaulbgabvbu,gqroogbvcugxkk givzu
ggggglkbgbkgbmrlcgkpgqmvbgrag.utkl grbj”--R.r j,grrjg25]

Vl gbmkaugqmkgbvcugbmragaulbuliugrlgvgiklbzvztgaulaugrlbuzwzubgrbgvfraa:

ggggggggggggggg“Rabvgarigzuirwzkivlbsz,gsbgubgarg rnrlvbrkgarb,
ggggggggggggggg rrgarlb;gubgarg rrgorlb,garbg rnrlvbrkj”

ggggg[“Bmuaugbmrlxagvzugakgpvzgzuirwzkivogbmvbgrpgbmuzug.ug rnrlvbrkl,
gggggbmuzugfsabg.ug urbrua;gvl grpg urbrua,g rnrlvbrklj”--Iriuzk,g u
ggggg rnrlj,grjg6j]

FsimgfkzugqrauotgWvisnrsa--

ggggggggg“Lvfgrabra,gesrgorlxsvfgvnrsfgrlbuoorxslb,
ggggggggggWosaesuguhgvorulkgyuikzugavwrslb,gesvfguhgask,
ggggggggggFvxragvs rul sf,gesvfgvsaisobvl sf,giulaukj”


ggggg[“Vagbkgbmkaugqmkgsl uzabvl gbmugovlxsvxugkpg.rz a,gvl gqmkgzvbmuz
gggggiklasobgbmugornuzagkpgvlrfvoagkbmuzgbmvlgbmurzgkql,gRgmv gzvbmuz
gggggmuvzgbmufgbmvlgvbbul gbkgbmufj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grjg57,guhgWvisnrk]

Bmugakgiuou.zvbu gvzbgkpg rnrlvbrklgvfklxabgbmugBsaivlagbkkcgrba
.uxrllrlxgbmsa:gVgov.kszuzgabzrcrlxg uuwgqrbmgmragisbbuzgrlbkgbmuguvzbm,
avqgbmug ufrxk gBvxuagvaiul ,gqrbmgvlgrlpvlbrlugvawuib,g.sbgul su gqrbmgv
fvbszugvl gaulrougqra kfjggSwklgbmugzsfkszgkpgqmrim,gvoogbmugwukwougzvl
bkgauugbmugarxmb,g.tgqmkfgmragqkz agvl gairuliu,giklbvrlrlxgbmu
wzrlirwouagvl gfuvlagbkgvbbvrlgbkgbmragvzb,gquzugzuikz u ,gvl gcuwbgpkz
fvltgvxuaj--[Iriuzk,g ug unrlv,grrjg23]--Vg.rzbmgasrbv.ougbkgrba
wzkxzuaa;gR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gamkso gakkluzgzuxsovbugftgvppvrzag.tgbmugimvliu
kpgvg rugbmvlg.tgasimgr ougvl gnvrlg zuvfajggVl ,grl uu ,grlgvoo
zuws.oria,gvgxkk gamvzugkpgbmugxknuzlfulbgmvagunuzg.uulgzupuzzu gbk
imvliujggWovbk,grlgbmugirnrogzuxrfulgbmvbgmugfk uoagviikz rlxgbkgmragkql
pvlit,gouvnuagbkgrbgbmug uirarklgkpgaunuzvogbmrlxagkpgnuztgxzuvb
rfwkzbvliu,gvl gqroo,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbmvbgfvzzrvxuagamkso g.u
vwwkrlbu g.tgokb;gvbbzr.sbrlxgakgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgbmragviir ulbvo
imkriugvagbkgkz vrlgbmvbgbmugimro zulg.uxkbbulgrlgasimgqu okicg.ug.zksxmb
swgrlgbmugikslbzt,gvl gbmkaug.uxkbbulgrlgvltgkbmuzg.ugbmzsabgksbgva
awszrksagvl g.vau;gtubgak,gbmvbgrpgvltgkpgbmkauguhroua,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,
amkso ,gwuzv nulbszu,grlgxzkqrlxgswgxrnugvltgxkk gmkwugkpgmrfauop,gmu
frxmbg.ugzuivoou ,gva,gvoak,gbmvbgasimgvagmv g.uulgzubvrlu ,gamkso g.u
uhrou ,grlgivaugbmutgxvnugorbbouguhwuibvbrklgkpgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzguvzot
xzkqbmj

Rgauugakfugqmkgvzugfrxmbrotgxrnulgbkgabs tgvl gikffulbgswklgbmurz
vofvlvia,gvl gwzk siugbmufgbkgsagvagvlgvsbmkzrbtgqmulgvltbmrlxgmvagpvooul
ksbgwvb;gvl ,gpkzgbmvbgfvbbuz,grbgragmvz otgwkaar.oug.sbgbmvbgbmuau
voouxu gvsbmkzrbruagakfubrfuagabsf.ougswklgvgbzsbmgvfklxabgvlgrlprlrbu
lsf.uzgkpgoruaj

gggggggggg“Esraguabgulrf,gesrgbkbsfg rufgyvisovla
gggggggggglklgvoresvl kgikoorluub?”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmkgamkkbagvoog vtgvbg.sbbagbmvbg kuaglkbgakfubrfuagmrbgbmu
gggggqmrbu?”--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grrjg59j]

Rgbmrlcglunuzgbmug.ubbuzgkpgbmufgpkzgakfugasimgviir ulbvogmrbjggBmuzu
qkso g.ugfkzugiuzbvrlbtgrlgrbgrpgbmuzugquzugvgzsougvl gvgbzsbmgkpgvoqvta
otrlxjgg.uar ua,glk.k tgzuikz agbmurzgporfpovfagvl gpvoaugwzkxlkabria,
pkzvafsimgvagbmutgvzugrlprlrbugvl gikffkl;g.sbgrpgbmutgimkwgswklgklu
bzsbm,gbmvbgivzzruagvgfrxmbtgzuwkzb,gvag.urlxgzvzu,grlizu r.ou,gvl 
wzk rxrksajggAkg rkxulua,gaszlvfu gbmugVbmurab,gvlaquzu gmrfgrl
Avfkbmzviu,gqmk,gamkqrlxgmrfgrlgbmugbufwougbmugaunuzvogkppuzrlxagvl 
abkzruagrlgwvrlbrlxgkpgbmkaugqmkgmv guaivwu gamrwqzuic,gavr gbkgmrf,
“Okkc,gtksgqmkgbmrlcgbmugxk agmvnuglkgivzugkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa,gqmvbg kgtks
avtgbkgakgfvltgwuzaklagwzuauznu gpzkfg uvbmg.tgbmurzguawuirvogpvnksz?”
g“Qmt,gRgavt,”gvlaquzu gmu,g“bmvbgbmurzgwribszuagvzuglkbgmuzugqmkgquzu
ivabgvqvt,gqmkgvzug.tgfsimgbmugxzuvbuzglsf.uzj”--[Iriuzk,g ugLvbszv
 ukzj,grjgg37j]

Iriuzkgk.auznuagbmvbgkpgvoogbmugwmrokakwmuzagqmkgmvnugviclkqou xu gv
 urbt,gHulkwmvluagbmugIkokwmklrvlgklotgmvagul uvnkszu gbkguzv rivbugvoo
fvlluzgkpg rnrlvbrkl--[Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grjg3j]--;gqmrimgfvcuagrbgbmu
ouaagvgqkl uzgrpgqugmvnuglkqgvl gbmulgauulgakfugkpgkszgwzrliua,gakfubrfua
bkgbmurzgkqlgikab,gzuotgbkkgfsimgswklgbmuaugnvlrbruajggRgmv gxrnul
vltbmrlxgqrbmgftgkqlgutuagbkgauugbmkaugbqkgxzuvbgfvznuoa,gbmug.kkcgkp
YkvimrfgbmugIvov.zrvlgv..kb,gqmrimgpkzubko gvoogbmugpsbszugWkwua,gbmurz
lvfuagvl gesvorbrua;gvl gbmvbgkpgbmugUfwuzkzgOuk,gqmrimgwzkwmuaru gvoo
bmugufwuzkzagvl gwvbzrvzimagkpgXzuuiujggBmragRgmvnug.uulgvlgutuqrbluaa
kp,gbmvbgrlgws.origiklpsarkla,gfulgvabklramu gvbgbmurzgpkzbslu,gmvnu
v.vl klu gbmurzgkqlgzuvakl,gaswuzabrbrksaotgbkgauucgksbgrlgbmugabvzagbmu
vlirulbgivsauagvl gfulviuagkpgbmugwzuaulbgframvwa,gvl grlgftgbrfugmvnu
.uulgakgabzvlxuotgasiiuaapsogrlgrb,gvagbkgfvcugfug.uorunugbmvbgbmrag.urlx
vlgvfsaufulbgkpgamvzwgvl gnkovbrougqrba,gbmkaugqmkgmvnug.uulgnuzau grl
bmragclvicgkpgslpko rlxgvl gslbtrlxgzr  oua,gvzugivwv.ou,grlgvltgakzbgkp
qzrbrlx,gbkgprl gksbgqmvbgbmutg uarzujgg.sbgv.knugvoo,gbmvbgqmrimgxrnua
bmufgbmugxzuvbuabgzkkfgbkgwovtgrl,gragbmugk.aiszu,gvf.rxsksa,gvl 
pvlbvabrigxr..uzramgkpgbmugwzkwmubrigivlbrlx,gqmuzugbmurzgvsbmkzag uornuz
lkbmrlxgkpgiouvzgaulau,g.sbgamzks gvoogrlgzr  ou,gbkgbmugul gbmvb
wkabuzrbtgfvtgrlbuzwzubgvl gvwwotgrbgviikz rlxgbkgrbagkqlgpvlitj

Akizvbuag ufklgfrxmb,gwuzmvwa,g.uglkgkbmuzg.sbgvgiuzbvrlgrfwsoarklgkpgbmu
qroo,gqmrimgk.bzs u grbauopgswklgmrfgqrbmksbgbmugv nriugkzgiklaulbgkpgmra
ys xfulb;gvl grlgvgaksogakgulorxmbulu gvagmragqva,gvl gakgwzuwvzu g.tgv
iklbrlsvoguhuziraugkpgqra kf-vl gnrzbsu,g‘bragbkg.ugaswwkau gbmkau
rliorlvbrklagkpgmra,gbmksxmgas  ulgvl gsl rxuabu ,gquzugnuztgrfwkzbvlb
vl gqkzbmtgbkg.ugpkookqu jggUnuztgklugprl agrlgmrfauopgakfugrfvxugkpgasim
vxrbvbrkla,gkpgvgwzkfwb,gnumufulb,gvl gpkzbsrbksagkwrlrkl;gvl gRgfvtgquoo
vookqgbmufgakfugvsbmkzrbt,gqmkgvbbzr.sbugakgorbbougbkgkszgwzs uliu,gvl 
qmkgvoakgftauopgmvnugmv gakfu,gquvcgrlgzuvakl,g.sbgnrkoulbgrlgwuzasvarkl
vl g raasvarkl,gqmrimgquzugfkabgpzuesulbgqrbmgAkizvbua,--[Wovbk,grlgmra
viikslbgkpgBmuvxuagbmugWtbmvxkzuvl]--.tgqmrimgRgmvnugasppuzu gftauopgbk
.ugivzzru gvqvtgakgpkzbslvbuot,gvl gakgfsimgbkgftgkqlgv nvlbvxu,gbmvb
bmutgfrxmbgmvnug.uulgys xu gbkgmvnugmv gakfubmrlxgrlgbmufgkpgvg rnrlu
rlawrzvbrklj




IMVWBUZgHRR

KPgIKLABVLIT

Bmugovqgkpgzuakosbrklgvl giklabvlitg kuaglkbgrfwotgbmvbgqugksxmbglkb,gva
fsimgvagrlgsagorua,gbkg uiorlugvl gauiszugkszauonuagpzkfgbmugfraimrupa
vl grliklnulruliuagbmvbgbmzuvbulgsa;glkz,giklauesulbot,gbmvbgqugamvooglkb
puvzgouabgbmutgamkso gaszwzraugsa:gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gvoog uiulbgvl gmkluab
qvtagvl gfuvlagkpgauiszrlxgkszauonuagpzkfgmvzfa,gvzuglkbgklotgwuzfrbbu ,
.sb,gfkzuknuz,gikfful v.ou,gvl gbmug.sarluaagkpgiklabvlitgimrupotgra,
.zvnuotgbkgabvl gbk,gvl gabksbotgbkgasppuzgbmkaugrliklnulruliuagqmrimgvzu
lkbgwkaar.otgbkg.ugvnkr u jggAkgbmvbgbmuzugraglkgaswwougfkbrklgkpg.k t,
lkzgvltgfknufulbgrlgbmugmvl orlxgkpgvzfa,gmkqgrzzuxsovzgkzgslxzviupso
akunuz,gbmvbgqugluu gikl ufl,grpgbmutgauznugbkgwzkbuibgsagpzkfgbmug.okq
bmvbgragfv ugvxvrlabgsaj

Aunuzvognuztgqvzorcuglvbrklagmvnugfv ugsaugkpgvgzubzuvbrlxgvl gpotrlxgqvt
kpgprxmbgvagvgbmrlxgkpgarlxsovzgv nvlbvxu,gvl ,g.tgakg krlx,gmvnugfv u
bmurzg.vicagfkzug vlxuzksagbkgbmurzgulufruagbmvlgbmurzgpviuajggKpgqmrim
crl gkpgprxmbrlxgbmugBszcagabroogzubvrlgakfubmrlxgrlgbmurzgwzvibriugkp
vzfa;gvl gAkizvbua,grlgWovbk,govsxmagvbgOvimua,gqmkgmv g uprlu gpkzbrbs u
bkg.ugvgabvl rlxgprzfgrlgbmugzvlcagvxvrlabgbmuguluftjgg“Qmvb!”gavtagmu,
“qkso grb,gbmul,g.ugvgzuwsbu gikqvz riugbkgknuzikfugbmufg.tgxrnrlx
xzksl ?”gszxrlx,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgMkfuz,gqmkgikfful a
rlgVUluvagbmugairuliugkpgporxmbjggVl gqmuzuvagOvimua,giklar uzrlxg.ubbuz
kpgrb,gv frbagbmugwzvibriugvagbkgbmugAitbmrvla,gvl ,grlgxuluzvo,gvoo
ivnvoztgqmvbunuz,gmugvxvrlgvbbvicagmrfgqrbmgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlgpkkb--vglvbrklgkpgvoogkbmuzgbmugfkabgk.abrlvbugrl
fvrlbvrlrlxgbmurzgxzksl --qmk,grlgbmug.vbbougkpgWovbvuv,glkbg.urlxgv.ou
bkg.zuvcgrlbkgbmugWuzarvlgwmvovlh,g.ubmksxmbgbmufauonuagbkg rawuzaugvl 
zubrzu,gbmvbg.tgbmuguluftgaswwkarlxgbmutgpou ,gbmutgfrxmbg.zuvcgvl 
 raslrbugbmvbgnvabg.k tgkpgfulgrlgbmugwszasrb,gvl g.tgbmvbgabzvbvxuf
k.bvrlu gbmugnribkztj

VagpkzgbmugAitbmrvla,g‘bragavr gkpgbmuf,gbmvbgqmulg vzrsagqulbgmra
uhwu rbrklgbkgas. sugbmuf,gmugaulb,g.tgvgmuzvo ,gmrxmotgbkgzuwzkvimgbmurz
crlx,gbmvbgmugvoqvtagzubrzu g.upkzugmrfgvl g uiorlu gvg.vbbou;gbkgqmrim
R vlbmtzaua,--[Muzk j,grnjgg127j]--pkzgbmvbgqvagmraglvfu,gzubszlu 
vlaquz,gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgpkzgpuvzgkpgmrf,gkzgkpgvltgfvlgornrlx,gbmvbgmu
 r gak,g.sbgbmvbgrbgqvagbmugqvtgkpgfvzimrlxgrlgwzvibriugqrbmgmraglvbrkl,
qmkgmv glurbmuzgbroou gpruo a,girbrua,glkzgmksauagbkg upul ,gkzgbkgpuvz
bmuguluftgamkso gfvcugvltgv nvlbvxugkpg.sbgbmvbgrpgmugmv gasimgvgabkfvim
bkgprxmb,goubgmrfg.sbgikfugbkgnruqgbmurzgvlirulbgwoviuagkpgauwsobszu,gvl 
bmuzugmugamkso gmvnugmragprooj

Lunuzbmuouaa,gvagbkgivllkl-amkb,gqmulgvg.k tgkpgfulgvzug zvqlgswgrlgbmu
pviugkpgvgbzvrlgkpgvzbroouzt,gvagbmugkiivarklgkpgqvzgkpbulgzuesrzua,grb
ragslmvl akfugbkgesrbgbmurzgwkabgbkgvnkr gbmug vlxuz,gpkzvafsimgvag.t
zuvaklgkpgrbagnrkouliugvl gaqrpbluaagqugviikslbgrbgrlunrbv.ou;gvl gfvltgv
klu,g.tg sicrlx,gabuwwrlxgvar u,gvl gasimgkbmuzgfkbrklagkpgpuvz,gmva
.uul,gvbgvoogunulba,gaspprirulbotgovsxmu gvbg.tgmragikfwvlrklajggVl gtub,
rlgbmuguhwu rbrklgbmvbgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNjgfv ugvxvrlabgsagrlbk
Wzknuliu,gbmugFvzesrag ugXsvabgxkrlxgbkgzuikllkrbzugbmugirbtgkpgVzoua,
vl gv nvlirlxgksbgkpgbmugiknuzgkpgvgqrl froo,gsl uzgpvnkszgkpgqmrimgmu
mv gfv ugmragvwwzkvim,gqvagwuziurnu g.tgbmugAurxluszag ug.kllunvogvl gbmu
AuluaimvogkpgVxulkra,gqmkgquzugqvocrlxgswklgbmug‘bmuvbzugvshgvtulua’;gqmk
mvnrlxgamkqlgmrfgbkgbmugAruszg ugNrooruza,gikffraavztgkpgbmugvzbroouzt,
mugwkrlbu gvgisonuzrlgakgv frzv.otgquoo,gvl gounuoou grbgakguhvibotgzrxmb
vxvrlabgmrf,gbmvbgmv glkbgbmugFvzesra,gauurlxgprzugxrnulgbkgrb,gaorwwu 
var u,grbgqvagiuzbvrlotgiklios u gbmugamkbgmv gbvculgmrfgpsoogrlgbmu
.k tjggVl ,grlgorcugfvlluz,gakfugtuvzag.upkzu,gOkzuldkg u’gFu rir,g scu
kpgSz.rlk,gvl gpvbmuzgbkgbmugesuul-fkbmuz--[Ivbmuzrlug u’gFu rir,gfkbmuz
kpgMulztgRRRj]--ovtrlxgaruxugbkgFkl kopk,gvgwoviugrlgbmugbuzzrbkzruagkp
bmugNrivzrvbgrlgRbvot,gauurlxgbmugivllkluuzgxrnugprzugbkgvgwruiugbmvb
wkrlbu g rzuibotgvxvrlabgmrf,grbgqvagquoogpkzgmrfgbmvbgmug sicu ,gpkz
kbmuzqraugbmugamkb,gbmvbgklotgzvdu gbmugbkwgkpgmragmuv ,gmv g ks.bouaa
mrbgmrfgpsoogrlgbmug.zuvabjggBkgavtgbzsbm,gRg kglkbgbmrlcgbmvbgbmuau
unvarklagvzugwuzpkzfu gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgys xfulb;gpkzgmkqgivlgvltgfvl
ornrlxgys xugkpgmrxmgkzgokqgvrfgklgakgas  ulgvlgkiivarkl?ggVl grbgragfsim
fkzuguvatgbkg.uorunugbmvbgpkzbslugpvnkszu gbmurzgvwwzumularkl,gvl gbmvb
rbgfrxmbg.ugvagquoogvbgvlkbmuzgbrfugbkgfvcugbmufgpviugbmug vlxuz,gvagbk
auucgbkgvnkr grbjggPkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gRgiklpuaagRgivllkbgpkz.uvzgabvzbrlx
qmulgbmugzvbbougkpgvgmvzesu.saugbmsl uzagrlgftguvzagklgvgas  ul,gvl grlgv
woviugqmuzugRgvfglkbgbkguhwuibgrb,gqmrimgRgmvnugvoakgk.auznu grlgkbmuza,
.zvnuzgpuookqagbmvlgRj

Lurbmuzg kgbmugAbkriagwzubul gbmvbgbmugaksogkpgbmurzgwmrokakwmuzgluu g.u
wzkkpgvxvrlabgbmugprzabgnrarklagvl gpvlbvaruagbmvbgaszwzraugmrf;g.sb,gva
bkgvglvbszvogas.yuibrkl,giklaulbgbmvbgmugamkso gbzuf.ougvbgbmugbuzzr.ou
lkraugkpgbmsl uz,gkzgbmugas  ulgiovbbuzgkpgakfugpvoorlxgzsrl,gvl g.u
vppzrxmbu gunulgbkgwvouluaagvl giklnsoarkl;gvl gakgrlgkbmuzgwvaarkla,
wzknr u gmragys xfulbgzufvrlgaksl gvl gulbrzu,gvl gbmvbgbmugauvbgkpgmra
zuvaklgasppuzglkgiklisaarklglkzgvobuzvbrkl,gvl gbmvbgmugtruo glkgiklaulb
bkgmragpzrxmbgvl g raikfwkaszujggBkgmrfgqmkgraglkbgvgwmrokakwmuz,gv
pzrxmbgragbmugavfugbmrlxgrlgbmugprzabgwvzbgkpgrb,g.sbgesrbugvlkbmuzgbmrlx
rlgbmugauikl ;gpkzgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgwvaarklag kuaglkbgzufvrl
aswuzprirvootgrlgmrf,g.sbgwulubzvbuagpvzbmuz,gunulgbkgbmugnuztgauvbgkp
zuvakl,grlpuibrlxgvl gikzzswbrlxgrb,gakgbmvbgmugys xuagviikz rlxgbkgmra
puvz,gvl giklpkzfagmrag.umvnrkszgbkgrbjgRlgbmragnuzaugtksgfvtgauugbmu
bzsugabvbugkpgbmugqraugAbkrigouvzlu otgvl gwovrlotguhwzuaau :--

gggggggggg“Fulagrffkbvgfvlub;govimztfvugnkonslbszgrlvluaj”

gggggggggg[“Bmksxmgbuvzagpokq,gbmugfrl gzufvrlagslfknu j”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,grnjg449]

BmugWuzrwvbubrigavxug kuaglkbguhufwbgmrfauopgbkbvootgpzkfgwuzbsz.vbrkla
kpgfrl ,g.sbgmugfk uzvbuagbmufj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVofvlvia
ggggg.urlxg uv gbmutgquzugbmulg.tgklug vtgmvwwruzgbmvlgmu
ggggg.kkcagRgzuv gknuzgvxvrl,gabroogafrougswklgfugqrbmggpzuamglknuobt
ggggg uvbmg raimvzxuagsagkpgvoogkszgk.orxvbrkla
ggggg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgfufkztgvl gsl uzabvl rlx
ggggg kgbmrlugkqlgqkzc,gvl gclkqgbmtauop
gggggUppuibgvl gwuzpkzfvliugvzuglkbgvbgvoogrlgkszgwkquz
gggggPvlbvabrigxr..uzramgkpgbmugwzkwmubrigivlbrlx
gggggPkootgkpgxvwrlxgvpbuzgpsbszugbmrlxa
gggggXkk gbkg.ugiuzbvrlgvl gprlrbu,gvl gunro,grlprlrbugvl gsliuzbvrl
gggggMugqmkgornuagunuztqmuzu,gornuaglkqmuzu
gggggRpgbmutgimkwgswklgklugbzsbm,gbmvbgivzzruagvgfrxmbtgzuwkzb
gggggRfwkbuliruagbmvbgakgslauvaklv.otgaszwzraugbmugoknuz
gggggOubgrbg.ugwuzfrbbu gbkgbmugbrfr gbkgmkwu
gggggOrxmbgxzrupagivlgawuvc:g uuwgakzzkqagvzug sf.
gggggOkkc,gtksgqmkgbmrlcgbmugxk agmvnuglkgivzugkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa
gggggLvbszugkpgys xfulbgbkgmvnugrbgfkzug uor.uzvbugvl gfkzugaokq
gggggLvbszugkpgqrbgragbkgmvnugrbagkwuzvbrklgwzkfwbgvl gas  ul
gggggLkzgmvnugkbmuzgbrugswklgklugvlkbmuz,g.sbg.tgkszgqkz 
gggggKo gfulgqmkgzubvrlgbmugfufkztgkpgbmrlxagwvab
gggggWrbtgragzuwsbu gvgnriugvfklxabgbmugAbkria
gggggZvbmuzgikfwovrlgkpgroo-pkzbslugbmvlg.ugvamvfu gkpgnribkzt
gggggZunuzaugkpgbzsbmgmvagvgmsl zu gbmksavl gpkzfa
gggggAvtgkpgakfugikfwkarbrklagbmvbgbmutgabrlcgkpgkrogvl gkpgbmugovfw
gggggAkokl,gbmvbglklugivlg.ugavr gbkg.ugmvwwtgslbrogmugrag uv 
gggggAbzklxgfufkztgragikffklotgikswou gqrbmgrlprzfgys xfulb
gggggAbsf.ougswklgvgbzsbmgvfklxabgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgorua
gggggAsppuzgbmkaugrliklnulruliuagqmrimgvzuglkbgwkaar.otgbkg.ugvnkr u 
gggggAswuzabrbrksaotgbkgauucgksbgrlgbmugabvzagbmugvlirulbgivsaua
gggggBmurzgwribszuagvzuglkbgmuzugqmkgquzugivabgvqvt
gggggBmrlxagRgavtgvzug.ubbuzgbmvlgbmkaugRgqzrbu
gggggQugvzugfvabuzagkpglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugqroo
gggggQugivllkbg.ug.ksl g.utkl gqmvbgqugvzugv.ougbkgwuzpkzf
gggggQmuzugbmugorkl’agacrlgragbkkgamkzb








UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg3j

HRRRjgggggBmugiuzufkltgkpgbmugrlbuznruqgkpgwzrliuaj
HRNjggggggBmvbgfulgvzugysabotgwslramu gpkzg.urlxgk.abrlvbugrlgbmug upuliu
ggggggggggkpgvgpkzbgbmvbgraglkbgrlgzuvaklgbkg.ug upul u 
HNjgggggggKpgbmugwslramfulbgkpgikqvz riuj
HNRjggggggVgwzkiuu rlxgkpgakfugvf.vaav kzaj
HNRRjgggggKpgpuvzj
HNRRRjggggBmvbgfulgvzuglkbgbkgys xugkpgkszgmvwwrluaagbroogvpbuzg uvbmj
HRHjggggggBmvbgbkgabs tgwmrokakwmtgragbkgouvzlgbkg ruj
HHjgggggggKpgbmugpkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrklj
HHRjggggggBmvbgbmugwzkprbgkpgklugfvlgragbmug vfvxugkpgvlkbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHRRR

BMUgIUZUFKLTgKPgBMUgRLBUZNRUQgKPgWZRLIUA

Bmuzugraglkgas.yuibgakgpzrnkoksagbmvbg kuaglkbgfuzrbgvgwoviugrlgbmra
zmvwak tjggViikz rlxgbkgkszgikffklgzsougkpgirnrorbt,grbgqkso g.ugv
lkbv.ougvppzklbgbkgvlguesvo,gvl gfsimgfkzugbkgvgaswuzrkz,gbkgpvrog.urlx
vbgmkfugqmulgmugmvagxrnulgtksglkbriugmugqroogikfugbkgnrarbgtksjggLvt,
EsuulgFvzxvzubgkpgLvnvzzu--[Fvzxsuzrbug ugNvokra,gvsbmkzuaagkpgbmu
‘Muwbvfuzkl’]--pszbmuzgv  a,gbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugvgzs uluaagrlgvgxulboufvl
bkgxkgksb,gvagqugakgkpbulg k,gbkgfuubgvltgbmvbgragikfrlxgbkgauugmrf,goub
mrfg.ugkpgqmvbgmrxmgikl rbrklgakunuz;gvl gbmvbgrbgragfkzugzuawuibpsogvl 
fkzugirnrogbkgabvtgvbgmkfugbkgzuiurnugmrf,grpgklotgswklgbmugviikslbgkp
fraarlxgmrfg.tgbmugqvt,gvl gbmvbgrbgragulksxmgbkgzuiurnugmrfgvbgbmug kkz,
vl gbkgqvrbgswklgmrfjggPkzgftgwvzb,gqmkgvagfsimgvagRgivlgul uvnkszgbk
zu siugbmugiuzufklruagkpgftgmksau,gRgnuztgkpbulgpkzxubg.kbmgbmugklugvl 
bmugkbmuzgkpgbmuaugnvrlgkppriuajggRp,gwuzv nulbszu,gakfugklugfvtgbvcu
kppuliugvbgbmra,gRgivl’bgmuowgrb;grbgragfsimg.ubbuzgbkgkppul gmrfgkliu
bmvlgftauopgunuztg vt,gpkzgrbgqkso g.ugvgwuzwubsvogaovnuztjggBkgqmvbgul 
 kgqugvnkr gbmugauznrougvbbul vliugkpgikszba,grpgqug.zrlxgbmugavfu
bzks.ougmkfugbkgkszgkqlgwzrnvbugmksaua?ggRbgragvoakgvgikffklgzsougrlgvoo
vaauf.orua,gbmvbgbmkaugkpgouaagesvorbtgvzugbkg.ugprzabgswklgbmugwoviu,g.t
zuvaklgbmvbgrbgragfkzug sugbkgbmug.ubbuzgakzbgbkgfvcugkbmuzagqvrbgvl 
uhwuibgbmufj

Lunuzbmuouaa,gvbgbmugrlbuznruqg.ubqrhbgWkwugIoufulbgvl gCrlxgPzvliragvb
Fvzaurooua,--[rlg1533j]--bmugCrlx,gvpbuzgmugmv gbvculgkz uzgpkzgbmu
luiuaavztgwzuwvzvbrklagpkzgmragzuiuwbrklgvl gulbuzbvrlfulb,gqrbm zuqgksb
kpgbmugbkql,gvl gxvnugbmugWkwugbqkgkzgbmzuug vta’gzuawrbugpkzgmragulbzt,
vl gbkgzuwkaugvl gzupzuamgmrfauop,g.upkzugmugivfugbkgmrfjggVl grlgorcu
fvlluz,gvbgbmugvaarxlvbrklgkpgbmugWkwugvl gbmugUfwuzkz,--[ImvzouagNjggrl
1532j]gvbg.kokxlv,gbmugUfwuzkzgxvnugbmugWkwugkwwkzbslrbtgbkgikfugbmrbmuz
przab,gvl givfugmrfauopgvpbuz;gpkzgqmrimgbmugzuvaklgxrnulgqvagbmra,gbmvb
vbgvoogbmugrlbuznruqagkpgasimgwzrliua,gbmugxzuvbuzgksxmbgbkg.ugprzabgvb
bmugvwwkrlbu gwoviu,guawuirvootg.upkzugbmugkbmuzgrlgqmkaugbuzzrbkzruagbmu
rlbuznruqgragvwwkrlbu gbkg.u,grlbrfvbrlxgbmuzu.tgvgcrl gkpg upuzuliugbk
bmugkbmuz,grbgvwwuvzrlxgwzkwuzgpkzgbmugouaagbkgauucgksbgvl gbkgvwwot
bmufauonuagbkgbmugxzuvbuz,gvl glkbgbmugxzuvbuzgbkgbmufj

Lkbgunuztgikslbztgklot,g.sbgunuztgirbtgvl gunuztgakirubtgmvagrba
wvzbrisovzgpkzfagkpgirnrorbtjggBmuzugqvagivzugulksxmgbkgbmragbvculgrlgft
u sivbrkl,gvl gRgmvnugornu grlgxkk gikfwvltgulksxmgbkgclkqgbmu
pkzfvorbruagkpgkszgkqlglvbrkl,gvl gvfgv.ougbkgxrnugouaaklagrlgrbjggRgoknu
bkgpkookqgbmuf,g.sbglkbgbkg.ugakgauznrouotgbru gbkgbmurzgk.auznvbrklgbmvb
ftgqmkougorpugamkso g.ugulaovnu gbkgiuzufklrua,gkpgqmrimgbmuzugvzugakfu
akgbzks.ouakfugbmvb,gwzknr u gvgfvlgkfrbagbmufgksbgkpg raizubrkl,gvl glkb
pkzgqvlbgkpg.zuu rlx,grbgqroog.ugunuztgqmrbgvagmvl akfujggRgmvnugauul
akfugwukwougzs u,g.tg.urlxgknuzirnrogvl gbzks.ouakfugrlgbmurzgikszbuatj

Abroo,gbmuauguhiuaauaguhiuwbu ,gbmugclkqou xugkpgikszbuatgvl gxkk 
fvlluzagragvgnuztgluiuaavztgabs tjggRbgra,gorcugxzviugvl g.uvsbt,gbmvb
qmrimg.uxubagorcrlxgvl gvlgrliorlvbrklgbkgoknugklugvlkbmuzgvbgbmugprzab
arxmb,gvl grlgbmugnuztg.uxrllrlxgkpgviesvrlbvliu;gvl ,giklauesulbot,gbmvb
qmrimgprzabgkwulagbmug kkzgvl grlbzkfrbagsagbkgrlabzsibgkszauonuag.tgbmu
uhvfwougkpgkbmuza,gvl gbkgxrnuguhvfwouagkszauonua,grpgqugmvnugvltgqkzbm
bvcrlxglkbriugkpgvl gikffslrivbrlxj




IMVWBUZgHRN

BMVBgFULgVZUgYSABOTgWSLRAMU gPKZg.URLXgK.ABRLVBUgRLgBMUg UPULIU
KPgVgPKZBgBMVBgRAgLKBgRLgZUVAKLgBKg.Ug UPUL U 

Nvokszgmvagrbag.ksl agvagquoogvagkbmuzgnrzbsua,gqmrim,gkliugbzvlaxzuaau ,
bmugluhbgabuwgragrlbkgbmugbuzzrbkzruagkpgnriu;gakgbmvbg.tgmvnrlxgbkk
ovzxugvgwzkwkzbrklgkpgbmragmuzkrignrzbsu,gslouaagvgfvlg.ugnuztgwuzpuibgrl
rbagorfrba,gqmrimgswklgbmugiklprluagvzugnuztgmvz gbkg raiuzl,gmugfvtgnuzt
uvarotgslvqvzuagzslgrlbkgbufuzrbt,gk.abrlvit,gvl gpkootjggPzkfgbmra
iklar uzvbrklgrbgragbmvbgqugmvnug uzrnu gbmugisabkf,grlgbrfuagkpgqvz,gbk
wslram,gunulgqrbmg uvbm,gbmkaugqmkgvzugk.abrlvbugbkg upul gvgwoviugbmvb
.tgbmugzsouagkpgqvzgraglkbgbulv.ou;gkbmuzqraugfulgqkso g.ugakgiklpr ulb
swklgbmugmkwugkpgrfwslrbt,gbmvbglkbgvgmulzkkabg.sbgqkso gzuarabgvl gauuc
bkgabkwgvlgvzftj

BmugIklabv.ougFklaruszg ugFklbfkzulir,gmvnrlxgvbgbmugaruxugkpgWvnrvg.uul
kz uzu gbkgwvaagbmugBrirlk,gvl gbkgbvcugswgmragesvzbuzagrlgbmugPvs.kszx
AbjgVlbklrk,g.urlxgmrl uzu g.tgvgbkquzgvbgbmugul gkpgbmug.zr xu,gqmrim
qvagakgk.abrlvbugvagbkgul szugvg.vbbuzt,gmvlxu gunuztgfvlgmugpksl gqrbmrl
rbgpkzgbmurzgov.kszjggVl gvxvrl,gviikfwvltrlxgbmug vswmrlgrlgmra
uhwu rbrklg.utkl gbmugVowa,gvl gbvcrlxgbmugIvabougkpgNroovlkg.tgvaavsob,
vl gvoogqrbmrlgrbg.urlxgwsbgbkgbmugaqkz g.tgbmugpsztgkpgbmugako ruza,gbmu
xknuzlkzgvl gmragularxlgklotguhiuwbu ,gmugivsau gbmufg.kbmgbkg.ugbzsaau 
swgpkzgbmugavfugzuvakl;gvagvoakg r gbmugIvwbvrlgFvzbrlg sg.uoovt,gbmul
xknuzlkzgkpgBszrl,gqrbmgbmugxknuzlkzgkpgAvlg.sklk,grlgbmugavfugikslbzt,
voogmragwukwougmvnrlxg.uulgisbgbkgwruiuagvbgbmugbvcrlxgkpgbmugwoviuj

.sbgpkzvafsimgvagbmugabzulxbmgkzgquvcluaagkpgvgpkzbzuaagragvoqvta
fuvaszu g.tgbmuguabrfvbugvl gikslbuzwkraugkpgbmugpkziuagbmvbgvbbvicgrb
--pkzgvgfvlgfrxmbgzuvaklv.otgulksxmg uawraugbqkgisonuzrla,gbmvbgqkso g.u
vgfv fvlgbkgv.r ugvg.vbbuztgkpgbmrzbtgwruiuagkpgivllkl--qmuzugvoakgbmu
xzuvbluaagkpgbmugwzrliugqmkgragfvabuzgkpgbmugpruo ,gmragzuwsbvbrkl,gvl 
bmugzuawuibgbmvbgrag sugslbkgmrf,gvzugvoakgwsbgrlbkgbmug.vovliu,gbmuzugra
 vlxuzgbmvbgbmug.vovliug.ugwzuaau gbkkgfsimgrlgbmvbg rzuibrkljggVl grb
fvtgmvwwulgbmvbgvgfvlgragwkaauaau gqrbmgakgxzuvbgvlgkwrlrklgkpgmrfauop
vl gmragwkquz,gbmvbgbmrlcrlxgrbgslzuvaklv.ougvltgwoviugamkso g vzugbk
amsbgrbagxvbuagvxvrlabgmrf,gmugwsbagvoogbkgbmugaqkz gqmuzugmugfuubagqrbm
vltgkwwkarbrkl,gqmroabgmragpkzbslugiklbrlsua;gvagragwovrlgrlgbmugpruziu
vl gvzzkxvlbgpkzfagkpgasffklrlxgbkqlagvl g ulkslirlxgqvz,gavnkszrlxgak
fsimgkpg.vz.vzrvlgwzr ugvl grlakouliu,grlgsaugvfklxabgbmugKzrulbvo
wzrliua,gvl gqmrimgbmurzgasiiuaakzagbkgbmrag vtg kgtubgzubvrlgvl 
wzvibraujggVl grlgbmvbgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gqmuzugbmugWkzbsxsuaugas. su gbmu
Rl rvla,gbmutgpksl gakfugabvbuagqmuzugrbgqvagvgslrnuzavogvl grlnrkov.ou
ovqgvfklxabgbmufgbmvbgunuztguluftgknuzikfug.tgbmugcrlxgrlgwuzakl,gkzg.t
mragorusbulvlb,gqvagksbgkpgikfwkarbrklj

Akgv.knugvoog.kbmgkpgzvlakfgvl gfuzitgvgfvlgamkso gbvcugmuu ,grpgmugivl,
kpgpvoorlxgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgvgys xugqmkgragvlguluftgvl gnribkzrksaj




IMVWBUZgHN

KPgBMUgWSLRAMFULBgKPgIKQVZ RIU

Rgkliugmuvz gkpgvgwzrliu,gvl gvgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gmvnrlxgvglvzzvbrklgxrnul
mrfgvagmugavbgvbgbv.ougkpgbmugwzkiuu rlxgvxvrlabgFklaruszg ugNuznrla,gqmk
qvagaulbuliu gbkg uvbmgpkzgmvnrlxgaszzul uzu g.ksokxlugbkgbmugUlxoram,
--[BkgMulztgNRRRjgrlg1544]--kwulotgfvrlbvrlrlxgbmvbgvgako ruzgikso glkb
ysabotg.ugwsbgbkg uvbmgpkzgqvlbgkpgikszvxujggVl ,grlgbzsbm,g‘bragzuvakl
bmvbgvgfvlgamkso gfvcugvgxzuvbg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgpvsobagbmvbgfuzuot
wzkiuu gpzkfgrlprzfrbt,gvl gbmkaugbmvbgvzugnrar.otgbmuguppuibagkp
bzuvimuztgvl gfvoriu:gpkz,grlgbmugovab,gqugvibgvxvrlabgbmugzsouagkp
zuvaklgbmvbglvbszugmvagrfwzrlbu grlgsa;gqmuzuva,grlgbmugpkzfuz,grbgauufa
vagrpgqugfrxmbgwzk siugbmugavfuglvbszu,gqmkgoupbgsagrlgasimgvgabvbugkp
rfwuzpuibrklgvl gquvcluaagkpgikszvxu,gpkzgkszgysabrprivbrkljggRlakfsim
bmvbgfvltgmvnugbmksxmbgqugvzuglkbgpvrzotgesuabrklv.ougpkzgvltbmrlxg.sb
qmvbgqugikffrbgvxvrlabgkszgiklairuliu;gvl grbgragwvzbotgswklgbmragzsou
bmvbgbmkaugxzksl gbmurzgkwrlrklgqmkg ravwwzknugkpgivwrbvogkzgavlxsrlvzt
wslramfulbagrlporibu gswklgmuzubriagvl gfra.uorunuza;gvl gbmurzagvoakgqmk
v nkivbugkzgvgys xugraglkbgviikslbv.ougpkzgmvnrlxgpzkfgfuzugrxlkzvliu
pvrou grlgmragv frlrabzvbrklj

.sbgvagbkgikqvz riu,grbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgbmugfkabgsasvogqvtgkpgimvabrarlx
rbgrag.tgrxlkfrltgvl gvl grbgragaswwkau gbmvbgbmragwzvibriug.zksxmbgrlbk
saug.tgbmugouxraovbkzgImvzkl va;gvl gbmvb,g.upkzugmragbrfu,gbmugovqagkp
Xzuuiugwslramu gbmkaugqrbmg uvbmgqmkgpou gpzkfgvg.vbbou;gqmuzuvagmu
kz vrlu gklotgbmvbgbmutg.ugpkzgbmzuug vtaguhwkau grlgbmugws.orig zuaau 
rlgqkfvl’agvbbrzu,gmkwrlxgtubgpkzgakfugauznriugpzkfgbmuf,gmvnrlxgvqvculu 
bmurzgikszvxug.tgbmragkwulgamvfu:

gggggggggg“Asppsl uzugfvoragmkfrfagavlxsrluf,gesvfguppsl uzuj”

ggggg[“Zvbmuzg.zrlxgbmug.okk grlbkgvgfvl’agimuucgbmvlgoubgrbgksbgkpgmra
ggggg.k tj”ggBuzbsoorvlgrlgmragVwkokxubriaj]

RbgvwwuvzagvoakgbmvbgbmugZkfvlgovqag r gvlirulbotgwslramgbmkaugqrbmg uvbm
qmkgmv gzslgvqvt;gpkzgVffrvlsagFvziuoorlsagavtagbmvbgbmugUfwuzkzgYsorvl
ikffvl u gbulgkpgmragako ruza,gqmkgmv gbszlu gbmurzg.vicagrlgvlgulikslbuz
vxvrlabgbmugWvzbmrvla,gbkg.ugprzabg uxzv u ,gvl gvpbuzqvz gwsbgbkg uvbm,
viikz rlx,gavtagmu,gbkgbmugvlirulbgovqa,--[VffrvlsagFvziuoorlsa,ghhrnj
4;ghhnjgrj]--vl gtubguoauqmuzugpkzgbmugorcugkppuliugmugklotgikl uflu 
kbmuzagbkgzufvrlgvfklxabgbmugwzrakluzagsl uzgbmug.vxxvxugularxljggBmu
aunuzugwslramfulbgbmugwukwougkpgZkfugrlporibu gswklgbmkaugqmkgpou gpzkf
bmug.vbbougkpgIvllvu,gvl gbmkaugqmkgzvlgvqvtgqrbmgVulursagPsonrsagvbgmra
 upuvb,g r glkbguhbul gbkg uvbmjggVl gtub,gfubmrlca,g‘bragbkg.ugpuvzu ,
ouabg raxzviugamkso gfvcugasimg uorlesulbag uawuzvbu,gvl glkbgklotgpvrlb
pzrul a,g.sbgulufruaj

Kpgovbugfufkzt,--[Rlg1523]--bmugAurxluszg ugPzvsxub,gorusbulvlbgbkgbmu
Fvzuaimvog ugImvbrookl’agikfwvlt,gmvnrlxg.tgbmugFvzuaimvog ugImv.vllua
.uulgwsbgrlgxknuzlfulbgkpgPsulbvzv.rvgrlgbmugwoviugkpgFklaruszg ugOs u,
vl gmvnrlxgaszzul uzu grbgbkgbmugAwvlrvz ,gmugqvagpkzgbmvbgikl uflu gbk
.ug uxzv u gpzkfgvooglk.rorbt,gvl g.kbmgmrfauopgvl gmragwkabuzrbt
 uiovzu grxlk.ou,gbvhv.ou,gvl gpkzgunuzgrlivwv.ougkpg.uvzrlxgvzfa,gqmrim
aunuzugaulbuliugqvagvpbuzqvz agviikz rlxotguhuisbu gvbgOtklaj--[Rlg1536]
--Vl ,garliugbmvb,gvoogbmugxulboufulgqmkgquzugrlgXsraugqmulgbmugIkslbgkp
Lvaavsgulbuzu grlbkgrb,gsl uzqulbgbmugavfugwslramfulb,gvagaunuzvogkbmuza
mvnug klugarliugpkzgbmugorcugkppuliujggLkbqrbmabvl rlx,grlgivaugkpgasimgv
fvlrpuabgrxlkzvliugkzgikqvz riugvaguhiuu agvoogkz rlvztguhvfwou,g‘brag.sb
zuvaklgbkgbvcugrbgpkzgvgaspprirulbgwzkkpgkpgbzuvimuztgvl gfvoriu,gvl gpkz
asimgbkg.ugwslramu j




IMVWBUZgHNR

VgWZKIUU RLXgKPgAKFUgVF.VAAV KZA

Rgk.auznugrlgftgbzvnuoagbmragisabkf,gunuzgbkgouvzlgakfubmrlxgpzkfgbmu
rlpkzfvbrklgkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgRgiklpuzg(qmrimgragbmug.uabgaimkkogkpgvoo
kbmuza),gvl gbkgwsbgftgikfwvltgswklgbmkaugas.yuibagbmutgvzugbmug.uabgv.ou
bkgawuvcgkp:--

ggggggggggggggg“.vabrgvoglkiimruzkgzvxrklvzg u’gnulbr,
gggggggggggggggVog.rpkoikg urgbkzr;gubgougasugwrvxmu
gggggggggggggggIklbr’ogxsuzzruz;giklbr’ogwvabkzgxorgvzfulbrj”

ggggg[“Oubgbmugavrokzgiklbulbgmrfauopgqrbmgbvocrlxgkpgbmugqrl a;gbmu
gggggikqmuz gkpgmragkhul;gbmugako ruzgkpgmragqksl a;gbmugamuwmuz gkpgmra
gggggpokicaj”--VlgRbvorvlgbzvlaovbrklgkpgWzkwuzbrsa,grrjgr,g43]

Pkzgrbgkpbulgpvooagksbgbmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gunuztgklugqroogzvbmuz
imkkaugbkg.ugwzvbrlxgkpgvlkbmuzgfvl’agwzknrliugbmvlgmragkql,gbmrlcrlxgrb
akgfsimgluqgzuwsbvbrklgviesrzu ;gqrbluaagbmugyuuzgVzimr vfsagwsbgswkl
Wuzbvl uz,g“bmvbgmugmv gesrbbu gbmugxokztgkpg.urlxgvlguhiuooulbgwmtarirvl
bkgxvrlgbmugzuwsbugkpgvgnuztg.v gwkubj--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmjgkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvla,g‘rlgnkiu’gVzimr vfsaj]--Vl g kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgovzxugvl 
vfwougIvuavzgragbkgfvcugsagsl uzabvl gmragrlnulbrklagkpg.sro rlxg.zr xua
vl giklbzrnrlxgulxrluagkpgqvz,--[ ug.uookgXvooj,grnjg17j]--vl gmkq
asiirlibgvl gzuauznu grlgikfwvzrakl,gqmuzugmugawuvcagkpgbmugkppriuagkp
mragwzkpuaarkl,gmragkqlgnvoksz,gvl gfrorbvztgikl sibjggMraguhwokrba
aspprirulbotgwzknugmrfgvgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gvl gbmvbgmugcluqgquoogulksxm;g.sb
mugqkso g.ugbmksxmbgvlguhiuooulbgulxrluuzgbkg.kkb;gvgesvorbtgakfubmrlx
 rppuzulb,gvl glkbgluiuaavztgbkg.uguhwuibu grlgmrfjggBmuguo uzg rkltarsa
qvagvgnuztgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gvagrbg.uprbbu gmragpkzbslugmugamkso g.u;g.sbgmu
bkkcgnuztgxzuvbgwvrlagbkgxubgvgwvzbrisovzgzuwsbvbrklg.tgwkubzt,gvl gtub
mugqvaglunuzgisbgksbgpkzgvgwkubjggVgfvlgkpgbmugouxvogwzkpuaarklg.urlxglkb
oklxgarliug.zksxmbgbkgauugvgabs tgpszlramu gqrbmgvoogakzbagkpg.kkca,g.kbm
kpgmragkqlgvl gvoogkbmuzgpvisobrua,gbkkcglkgkiivarklgvbgvoogbkgulbuzbvrl
mrfauopgqrbmgvltgkpgbmuf,g.sbgpuoognuztgzs uotgvl gfvxrabuzrvootgbk
 uaivlbgswklgvg.vzzriv ugwoviu gklgbmugqrl rlxgabvrzg.upkzugbmugabs t
 kkz,gvgbmrlxgbmvbgvgmsl zu givwbvrlagvl gikffklgako ruzagauugunuztg vt
qrbmksbgbvcrlxgvltglkbriugkzgkppuliuj

gggggggggg“Kwbvbguwmrwwrvg.kagwrxuz,gkwbvbgvzvzugiv.voosaj”

ggggg[“Bmugovdtgkhg uarzuagvgav  ougvl g.zr ou;gbmugmkzaugqvlbagbk
gggggwoksxmj”--Mkzj,gUwj,grjg14,43j]

.tgbmragikszaugvgfvlgamvooglunuzgrfwzknugmrfauop,glkzgvzzrnugvbgvlt
wuzpuibrklgrlgvltbmrlxjggMugfsab,gbmuzupkzu,gfvcugrbgmrag.sarluaagvoqvta
bkgwsbgbmugvzimrbuib,gbmugwvrlbuz,gbmugabvbsvzt,gunuztgfuimvlrigvzbravl,
swklg raikszaugkpgbmurzgkqlgivwvirbruaj

Vl ,gbkgbmragwszwkau,grlgzuv rlxgmrabkzrua,gqmrimgragunuzt.k t’agas.yuib,
Rgsaugbkgiklar uzgqmvbgcrl gkpgfulgvzugbmugvsbmkza:grpgbmutg.ugwuzakla
bmvbgwzkpuaaglkbmrlxg.sbgfuzugoubbuza,gR,grlgvl gpzkfgbmuf,gwzrlirwvoot
k.auznugvl gouvzlgabtougvl govlxsvxu;grpgwmtarirvla,gRgbmugzvbmuzgrliorlu
bkgizu rbgqmvbgbmutgzuwkzbgkpgbmugbufwuzvbszugkpgbmugvrz,gkpgbmugmuvobm
vl gikfwouhrklagkpgwzrliua,gkpgqksl agvl g rauvaua;grpgovqtuza,gqugvzu
pzkfgbmufgbkgbvcuglkbriugkpgbmugiklbzknuzaruagkpgzrxmbagvl gqzklxa,gbmu
uabv.oramfulbgkpgovqagvl girnrogxknuzlfulb,gvl gbmugorcu;grpg rnrlua,gbmu
vppvrzagkpgbmugImszim,guiiouarvabrivogiulaszua,gfvzzrvxua,gvl 
 rawulavbrkla;grpgikszbruza,gfvlluzagvl giuzufklrua;grpgako ruza,gbmu
bmrlxagbmvbgwzkwuzotg.uoklxgbkgbmurzgbzv u,gvl ,gwzrlirwvoot,gbmu
viikslbagkpgbmugvibrklagvl gulbuzwzrauagqmuzurlgbmutgquzugwuzaklvoot
ulxvxu ;grpgvf.vaav kza,gqugvzugbkgk.auznugluxkbrvbrkla,grlbuoorxuliua,
vl gwzvibriua,gvl gbmugfvlluzgmkqgbmutgvzugbkg.ugivzzru gklj

Vl gbmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtg(qmrimgwuzmvwagRgamkso gmvnugorxmbotgwvaau 
knuzgrlgvlkbmuz)gRg quobgswklgvl gfvbszuotgiklar uzu gklugwvaavxugrlgbmu
mrabkztgqzrbbulg.tgFklaruszg ugOvlxut,gvgfvlgkpgnuztgxzuvbgys xfulbgrl
bmrlxagkpgbmvbglvbszu:gvpbuzgmvnrlxgxrnulgvglvzzvbrnugkpgbmugprlugkzvbrkl
ImvzouagNjgmv gfv ugrlgbmugIklarabkztgvbgZkfu,gvl grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmu
.ramkwgkpgFviklgvl gFklaruszg sgNuoot,gkszgvf.vaav kzagbmuzu,gqmuzurlgmu
mv gfrhu gaunuzvogrlyszrksaguhwzuaarklagbkgbmug ramklkszgkpgkszglvbrkl;
vl gvfklxabgbmugzuab,g“bmvbgrpgmragivwbvrlagvl gako ruzagquzuglkbgfulgkp
vlkbmuzgcrl gkpgpr uorbt,gzuakosbrkl,gvl gaspprirulitgrlgbmugclkqou xugkp
vzfagbmvlgbmkaugkpgbmugCrlx,gmugqkso grffu rvbuotgxkgqrbmgvgzkwugv.ksb
mragluicgvl gasugbkgmrfgpkzgfuzit”g(vl grbgamkso gauufgbmugUfwuzkzgmv 
zuvootgbmra,gkzgvgnuztgorbboug.ubbuzgkwrlrklgkpgkszgfrorbvztgful,gpkzgmu
vpbuzqvz a,gbqriugkzgbmzriugrlgmragorpu,gavr gbmugnuztgavfugbmrlx);gva
voak,gbmvbgmugimvooulxu gbmugCrlxgbkgprxmbgmrfgrlgmragamrzbgqrbmgzvwruz
vl gwkrxlvz grlgvg.kvbjggBmugavr gAruszg ugOvlxut,gwszasrlxgmragmrabkzt,
v  agbmvbgbmugpkzulvfu gvf.vaav kza,gaul rlxgvg uawvbimgbkgbmugCrlxgkp
bmuaugbmrlxa,gikliuvou gbmugxzuvbuabgwvzb,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbmugovabgbqk
wvaavxuajggVbgqmrimgRgikso glkbg.sbgqkl uzgbmvbgrbgamkso g.ugrlgbmugwkquz
kpgvlgvf.vaav kzgbkg rawulaugqrbmgvltbmrlxgqmrimgmugksxmbgbkgarxlrptgbk
mragfvabuz,guawuirvootgkpgakgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugvagbmra,gikfrlxgpzkfgbmu
fksbmgkpgasimgvgwuzakl,gvl gawkculgrlgakgxzuvbgvlgvaauf.ot;gvl gRgamkso 
zvbmuzgikliurnugrbgmv g.uulgbmugauznvlb’ag sbtgpvrbmpsootgbkgmvnu
zuwzuaulbu gbkgmrfgbmugqmkougbmrlxgvagrbgwvaau ,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmu
or.uzbtgkpgauouibrlx,g rawkarlx,gys xrlx,gvl giklios rlxgfrxmbgmvnu
zufvrlu grlgmrf:gpkzgurbmuzgbkgikliuvogkzgbkg raxsraugbmugbzsbmgpkzgpuvz
mugamkso gbvcugrbgkbmuzqraugbmvlgmugksxmbgbkg k,gvl gouabgrbgamkso 
wzkfwbgmrfgbkgakfuguhbzvnvxvlbgzuakosbrkl,gvl ,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbkgouvnu
mrfgrxlkzvlbgkpgmragvppvrza,gamkso gauuf,gfubmrlca,gzvbmuzgbkg.uoklxgbk
mrfgqmkgragbkgxrnugbmugovqgbmvlgbkgmrfgqmkgragklotgbkgzuiurnugrb;gbkgmrf
qmkgragrlgaswzufugikffvl ,gvl glkbgbkgmrfgqmkgksxmbgbkgokkcgswklgmrfauop
vagrlpuzrkz,glkbgklotgrlgvsbmkzrbt,g.sbgvoakgrlgwzs uliugvl gxkk 
ikslauojggR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gqkso glkbg.ugakgauznu grlgftgorbbougikliuzlaj

Qugakgqroorlxotgaorwgbmugikoovzgkpgikffvl gswklgvltgwzubuliugqmvbunuz,
vl gvzugakgzuv tgbkgsaszwgswklg kfrlrkl,gunuztgklug kuagakglvbszvoot
vawrzugbkgor.uzbtgvl gwkquz,gbmvbglkgsbrorbtgqmvbunuzg uzrnu gpzkfgbmu
qrbgkzgnvokszgkpgbmkaugmugufwoktagksxmbgbkg.ugakg uvzgbkgvgaswuzrkzgvagv
 kqlzrxmbgvl garliuzugk.u ruliujggBkgk.utgfkzugswklgbmugviikslbgkp
sl uzabvl rlxgbmvlgkpgas.yuibrkl,gragbkgikzzswbgbmugkppriugkpgikffvl 
--[BvculgpzkfgVsosagXuoorsa,grjg13j]--;grlakfsimgbmvbgWjgIzvaasa,gbmugavfu
qmkfgbmugZkfvlagzuwsbu gprnugbrfuagmvwwt,gvbgbmugbrfugqmulgmugqvagiklaso
rlgVarv,gmvnrlxgaulbgbkgvgXzuucgulxrluuzgbkgivsaugbmugxzuvbuzgkpgbqk
fvabagkpgamrwagbmvbgmugmv gbvculglkbriugkpgvbgVbmulagbkg.ug.zksxmbgbk
mrf,gbkg.ugufwoktu gv.ksbgakfugulxrlugkpg.vbbuztgmugmv gvg uarxlgbkgfvcu;
bmugkbmuz,gwzuasfrlxgswklgmragkqlgairuliugvl gaspprirulitgrlgbmkau
vppvrza,gbmksxmbgprbgbkg kgkbmuzqraugbmvlg rzuibu ,gvl gbkg.zrlxgbmu
ouaa,gqmrim,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugzsouagkpgvzb,gqvagzuvootgfkzugwzkwuzgpkz
bmugsaugbkgqmrimgrbgqvag uarxlu ;g.sbgIzvaasa,gbmksxmgmugxvnuguvzgbkgmra
zuvaklagqrbmgxzuvbgwvbruliu,gqkso glkb,gmkqunuz,gbvcugbmuf,gmkqgaksl gkz
iklnrlirlxgakunuz,gpkzgiszzulbgwvt,g.sbgivsau gmrfgbkg.ugquoogqmrwwu gpkz
mragwvrla,gnvosrlxgbmugrlbuzuabgkpg rairworlugfsimgfkzugbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmu
qkzcgrlgmvl j

Lkbqrbmabvl rlx,gqugfvtgklgbmugkbmuzgar ugiklar uzgbmvbgakgwzuiraugvl 
rfworirbgvlgk.u ruliugvagbmragragklotg sugbkgwkarbrnugvl gorfrbu 
ikffvl ajggBmugufwoktfulbgkpgvf.vaav kzagraglunuzgakgiklprlu ,gfvlt
bmrlxagrlgbmurzgfvlvxufulbgkpgvppvrzag.urlxgqmkootgzupuzzu gbkgbmu
v.akosbugaknuzurxlbtgkpgbmurzgkqlgikl sib;gbmutg kglkbgarfwotguhuisbu,
.sbgvoak,gbkgbmurzgkqlg raizubrklgvl gqra kf,gpkzfgvl gfk uogbmurz
fvabuz’agwouvaszujggRgmvnu,grlgftgbrfu,gclkqlgfulgkpgikffvl gimuicu gpkz
mvnrlxgzvbmuzgk.utu gbmuguhwzuaagqkz agkpgbmugcrlx’agoubbuza,gbmvlgbmu
luiuaarbtgkpgbmugvppvrzagbmutgmv grlgmvl jggFulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxg kgtub,
bkgbmrag vt,gikl uflgbmugisabkfgkpgbmugcrlxagkpgWuzarvgbkgxrnugbmurz
orusbulvlbagvl gvxulbagakgorbbougzurl,gbmvb,gswklgbmugouvabgvzrarlx
 rpprisobrua,gbmutgfsabgpvrlgmvnugzuikszaugbkgbmurzgpszbmuzgikffvl a;
bmrag uovt,grlgakgnvabgvlguhbulbgkpg kfrlrkl,gmvnrlxgkpbulgnuztgfsim
wzuys riu gbmurzgvppvrza;gvl gIzvaasa,gqzrbrlxgbkgvgfvlgqmkaugwzkpuaarkl
rbgqvag.uabgbkgsl uzabvl gbmkaugbmrlxa,gvl gwzu-viesvrlbrlxgmrfgbkgqmvb
saugbmragfvabgqvag uarxlu ,g r gmuglkbgauufgbkgiklasobgmragv nriu,gvl grl
vgfvlluzgrlnrbugmrfgbkgrlbuzwkaugmrag.ubbuzgys xfulb?




IMVWBUZgHNRR

KPgPUVZ

gggggggggg“K.abswsr,gabubuzslbesugikfvugubgnkhgpvsir.sagmvuarbj”

ggggg[“Rgqvagvfvdu ,gftgmvrzgabkk gklgul ,gvl gftgnkriugabsicgrlgft
gggggbmzkvbj”ggNrzxro,gVUlur ,grrjgg774j]

Rgvfglkbgakgxkk gvglvbszvorabg(vagbmutgivoogrb)gvagbkg raiuzlg.tgqmvb
auizubgawzrlxagpuvzgmvagrbagfkbrklgrlgsa;g.sb,g.ugbmragvagrbgfvt,g‘bragv
abzvlxugwvaarkl,gvl gasimgvgklugbmvbgbmugwmtarirvlagavtgbmuzugraglkgkbmuz
qmvbunuzgbmvbgakkluzg ubmzkluagkszgys xfulbgpzkfgrbagwzkwuzgauvb;gqmrim
ragakgbzsu,gbmvbgRgftauopgmvnugauulgnuztgfvltg.uikfugpzvlbrigbmzksxm
puvz;gvl ,gunulgrlgbmkaugkpgbmug.uabgaubbou gbufwuzgrbgragfkabgiuzbvrl
bmvbgrbg.uxubagvgbuzzr.ougvabklramfulbgvl giklpsarklg szrlxgbmugprbj
Rgkfrbgbmugnsoxvzgakzb,gbkgqmkfgrbgklugqmrougzuwzuaulbagbmurz
xzuvb-xzvl arzuagzraulgksbgkpgbmurzgxzvnuagrlgbmurzgamzks a,gvlkbmuzgqmrou
quzuqkonua,glrxmbfvzua,gvl gimrfvuzva;g.sbgunulgvfklxabgako ruza,gvgakzb
kpgfulgknuzgqmkf,gkpgvoogkbmuza,grbgksxmbgbkgmvnugbmugouvabgwkquz,gmkq
kpbulgmvagrbgiklnuzbu gpokicagkpgamuuwgrlbkgvzfu gaesv zkla,gzuu agvl 
.soozsamuagrlbkgwrcuagvl govliua,gpzrul agrlbkgulufrua,gvl gbmugPzulim
qmrbugizkaagrlbkgbmugzu gizkaagkpgAwvrl!ggQmulgFklaruszg ug.ksz.klgbkkc
Zkfu,--[Rlg1527]--vlgularxlgqmkgqvagswklgxsvz gvbg.kzxkgAvlgWrubzkgqva
aurdu gqrbmgasimgvgpzrxmbgswklgbmugprzabgvovzf,gbmvbgmugbmzuqgmrfauopgksb
vbgvg.zuvimgqrbmgmragikokszagswklgmragamkso uz,gvl gzvlg rzuibotgswklgbmu
uluft,gbmrlcrlxgmugmv gzubzuvbu gbkqvz gbmugrlqvz g upuliuagkpgbmugirbt,
vl gqrbmgfsimgv k,gauurlxgFklaruszg ug.ksz.kl’agwukwou,gqmkgbmksxmbgrb
mv g.uulgvgavootgswklgbmuf,g zvqgswgbkgzuiurnugmrf,gvbgovabgivfugbk
mrfauop,gvl gavqgmraguzzkz;gvl gbmulgpvirlxgv.ksb,gmugzubzuvbu gpsoo
awuu gbmzksxmgbmugavfug.zuvimg.tgqmrimgmugmv gxklugksb,g.sbglkbgbroogmu
mv gprzabg.orl otgv nvliu gv.knugbmzuugmsl zu gwviuagrlbkgbmugkwulgpruo j
Rbg r glkb,gmkqunuz,gpvoogksbgakgquoogqrbmgIvwbvrlgXrsork’agularxl,gvb
bmugbrfugqmulgAbjgWvsogqvagbvculgpzkfgsag.tgbmugIkfbug ug.szuagvl 
Fklaruszg ugZus,gpkzgmu,g.urlxgakgvabklramu gqrbmgpuvzgvagbkgbmzkq
mrfauop,gikokszagvl gvoo,gksbgkpgvgwkzbmkou,gqvagrffu rvbuot,gisbgbk
wruiuag.tgbmuguluft;gvl grlgbmugavfugaruxu,grbgqvagvgnuztgfufkzv.ougpuvz
bmvbgakgaurdu ,giklbzvibu ,gvl gpzkdugswgbmugmuvzbgkpgvgxulboufvl,gbmvb
mugavlcg kql,gabklu- uv ,grlgbmug.zuvim,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgqksl gkz
mszbgvbgvoojggBmugorcugfv luaag kuagakfubrfuagwsamgklgvgqmkougfsobrbs u;
pkzgrlgklugkpgbmugulikslbuzagbmvbgXuzfvlrisagmv gqrbmgbmugXuzfvla,gbqk
xzuvbgwvzbruagquzugakgvfvdu gqrbmgpuvzgbmvbgbmutgzvlgbqkgkwwkarbugqvta,
bmugklugbkgbmugavfugwoviugpzkfgqmrimgbmugkbmuzgmv gpou j--[Bvirb,gVllvoj,
rjgg63j]--Akfubrfuagrbgv  agqrlxagbkgbmugmuuoa,gvagrlgbmugbqkgprzab:
akfubrfuagrbglvroagbmufgbkgbmugxzksl ,gvl gpubbuzagbmufgpzkfgfknrlx;gva
qugzuv gkpgbmugUfwuzkzgBmukwmrosa,gqmk,grlgvg.vbbougmugokabgvxvrlabgbmu
Vxvzulua,gqvagakgvabklramu gvl gabswupru gbmvbgmugmv glkgwkquzgbkgpot--

ggggggggggggggg“V ukgwvnkzgubrvfgvshrorvgpkzfr vb”

ggggg[“Akgfsimg kuagpuvzg zuv gunulgbmugfuvlagkpgavpubtj”--Esrlbj
gggggIszbj,grrjggRRj]

--broogasimgbrfugvagFvlsuo,gklugkpgbmugwzrlirwvogikffvl uzagkpgmragvzft,
mvnrlxgykxxu gvl gamvcu gmrfgakgvagbkgzksaugmrfgksbgkpgmragbzvliu,gavr 
bkgmrf,g“Arz,grpgtksgqrooglkbgpkookqgfu,gRgqroogcroogtks;gpkzgrbgra
.ubbuzgtksgamkso gokaugtkszgorpugbmvl,g.tg.urlxgbvcul,gokaugtkszgufwrzuj”
g--[Dklvzva,gor.jggrrrj]--.sbgpuvzg kuagbmulgfvlrpuabgrbagsbfkabgwkquz
qmulgrbgbmzkqagsagswklgvgnvorvlbg uawvrz,gmvnrlxg.upkzug uwzrnu gsagkp
voogaulaug.kbmgkpg sbtgvl gmklkszjggRlgbmugprzabgwrbimu g.vbbougbmu
ZkfvlagokabgvxvrlabgMvllr.vo,gsl uzgbmugIklasogAufwzklrsa,gvg.k tgkpgbul
bmksavl gpkkb,gbmvbgmv gbvculgpzrxmb,gauurlxglkgkbmuzguaivwugpkzgbmurz
ikqvz riu,gqulbgvl gbmzuqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgswklgbmugxzuvbg.vbbvorklgkp
bmugulufrua,gqmrimgqrbmgfvznuooksagpkziugvl gpsztgbmutgimvzxu gbmzksxm
vl gbmzksxm,gvl gzksbu gqrbmgvgnuztgxzuvbgaovsxmbuzgkpgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvla,
bmsagwszimvarlxgvlgrxlkfrlrksagporxmbgvbgbmugavfugwzriugbmutgfrxmbgmvnu
xvrlu gvgxokzrksagnribkztj--[Ornt,ghhrjgg56j]

Bmugbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gRgvfgfkabgvpzvr gkpgragpuvz,gbmvbgwvaarklgvoklu,
rlgbmugbzks.ougkpgrb,guhiuu rlxgvoogkbmuzgviir ulbajggQmvbgvpporibrkl
ikso g.ugxzuvbuzgkzgfkzugysabgbmvlgbmvbgkpgWkfwut’agpzrul a,gqmk,grlgmra
amrw,gquzugawuibvbkzagkpgbmvbgmkzzr.ougfsz uz?ggTubgakgrbgqva,gbmvbgbmu
puvzgkpgbmugUxtwbrvlgnuaauoagbmutgavqgikfrlxgbkg.kvz gbmuf,gwkaauaau 
bmufgqrbmgakgxzuvbgvovzfgbmvbgrbgragk.auznu gbmutgbmksxmbgkpglkbmrlxg.sb
ivoorlxgswklgbmugfvzrluzagbkgfvcugmvabu,gvl g.tgpkziugkpgkvzagbkguaivwu
vqvt,gbroog.urlxgvzzrnu gvbgBtzu,gvl g uornuzu gpzkfgpuvz,gbmutgmv 
ouraszugbkgbszlgbmurzgbmksxmbagbkgbmugokaagkpgbmurzgivwbvrl,gvl gbkgxrnu
nulbgbkgbmkaugbuvzagvl govfulbvbrklagbmvbgbmugkbmuzgfkzugwkbulbgwvaarkl
mv gbroogbmulgasawul u j

gggggggggg“Bsfgwvnkzgavwrulbrvfgkflufgfrmruhgvlrfkguhwuibkzvbj”

ggggg[“Bmulgpuvzg zknugksbgvoogrlbuoorxuliugpzkfgftgfrl j”--Ullrsa,gvwj
gggggIriuzk,gBsaij,grnjgg8j]

Asimgvagmvnug.uulgquoogzs..u grlgakfugacrzfram,gfvtgtub,gvoogqksl u gvl 
.okk tgvagbmutgvzu,g.ug.zksxmbgklgvxvrlgbmugluhbg vtgbkgimvzxu;g.sbgasim
vagmvnugkliugikliurnu gvgxkk gaksl gpuvzgkpgbmuguluft,gqrooglunuzg.ugfv u
akgfsimgvagbkgokkcgmrfgrlgbmugpviujggAsimgvagvzugrlgrffu rvbugpuvzgkpgv
okarlxgbmurzguabvbua,gkpg.vlramfulb,gkzgkpgaovnuzt,gornugrlgwuzwubsvo
vlxsram,gvl gokaugvoogvwwubrbugvl gzuwkau;gqmuzuvagasimgvagvzugvibsvoot
wkkz,gaovnua,gkzguhroua,gkpbbrfuagornugvagfuzzrotgvagkbmuzgpkocjggVl gbmu
fvltgwukwougqmk,grfwvbrulbgkpgbmugwuzwubsvogvovzfagkpgpuvz,gmvnugmvlxu 
kzg zkqlu gbmufauonua,gkzg vamu gbmufauonuagbkgwruiua,gxrnugsa
aspprirulbotgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgpuvzgragfkzugrfwkzbslvbugvl 
rlaswwkzbv.ougbmvlg uvbmgrbauopj

BmugXzuucagviclkqou xu gvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgpuvz,g rppuzrlxgpzkfgvltgqugmvnu
awkculgkpgtub,gbmvbgaszwzrauagsagqrbmksbgvltgnrar.ougivsau,g.tgvlgrfwsoau
pzkfgmuvnul,gakgbmvbgqmkouglvbrklagvl gqmkougvzfruagmvnug.uulgabzsicgqrbm
rbjggAsimgvgklugqvagbmvbgqmrimg.zksxmbgakgqkl uzpsogvg uakovbrklgswkl
Ivzbmvxu,gqmuzuglkbmrlxgqvagbkg.ugmuvz g.sbgvppzrxmbu gnkriuagvl 
ksbizrua;gqmuzugbmugrlmv.rbvlbagquzugauulgbkgavootgksbgkpgbmurzgmksauagva
bkgvlgvovzf,gvl gbmuzugbkgimvzxu,gqksl ,gvl gcroogklugvlkbmuz,gvagrpgbmut
mv g.uulgulufruagikfugbkgaszwzraugbmurzgirbtjggVoogbmrlxagquzugrl
 rakz uzgvl gpsztgbroo,gqrbmgwzvtuzagvl gavizrpriua,gbmutgmv gvwwuvau 
bmurzgxk a--[ rk jggArij,ghnjg7];gvl gbmragragbmvbgbmutgivoogwvlri
buzzkzaj--[R.r jg;gWosbvzimgklgRaragvl gKarzra,gijgg8j]




IMVWBUZgHNRRR

BMVBgFULgVZUgLKBgBKgYS XUgKPgKSZgMVWWRLUAAgBROOgVPBUZg UVBMj

ggggg[Imvzzklgmvag.kzzkqu gqrbmgslsasvogor.uzvorbtgpzkfgbmragvl gbmu
gggggasiiuu rlxgimvwbuzjggAuugLk ruz,gEsuabrkla,gwjg206j]

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Airoriubgsobrfvgaufwuz
gggggggggggggggUhawuibvl vg ruagmkfrlrguab;g riresug.uvbsa
gggggggggggggggVlbugk.rbsfglufkgaswzufvesugpsluzvg u.ubj”

ggggg[“Qugamkso gvoogokkcgpkzqvz gbkgkszgovabg vt:glkgklugivlg.ugivoou 
gggggmvwwtgbroogmugrag uv gvl g.szru j”--Knr ,gFub,grrrjg135]

Bmugnuztgimro zulgclkqgbmugabkztgkpgCrlxgIzkuasagbkgbmragwszwkau,gqmk
.urlxgbvculgwzrakluzg.tgItzsa,gvl g.tgmrfgikl uflu gbkg ru,gvagmugqva
xkrlxgbkguhuisbrklgizru gksb,g“KgAkokl,gAkokl!”ggqmrimg.urlxgwzuaulbot
zuwkzbu gbkgItzsa,gvl gmugaul rlxgbkgrlesrzugkpgmrfgqmvbgrbgfuvlb,
Izkuasagxvnugmrfgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgmuglkqgpksl gbmugbuvimrlxgAkoklgmv 
pkzfuzotgxrnulgmrfgbzsugbkgmragikab;gqmrimgqva,g“Bmvbgful,gmkqunuz
pkzbslugfvtgafrougswklgbmuf,gikso glunuzg.ugavr gbkg.ugmvwwtgbroogbmut
mv g.uulgauulgbkgwvaagknuzgbmugovabg vtgkpgbmurzgornua,”g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmu
sliuzbvrlbtgvl gfsbv.rorbtgkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa,gqmrim,gswklgnuztgorxmbgvl 
bzrnrvogkiivarkla,gvzugas.yuibgbkg.ugbkbvootgimvlxu grlbkgvgesrbu
iklbzvztgikl rbrkljggVl gakgrbgqvagbmvbgVxuarovsagfv ugvlaquzgbkgklugqmk
qvagavtrlxgqmvbgvgmvwwtgtkslxgfvlgbmugCrlxgkpgWuzarvgqva,gbkgikfugak
tkslxgbkgakgfrxmbtgvgcrlx kf:g“‘Bragbzsu,”gavr gmu,g“.sbglurbmuzgqva
Wzrvfgslmvwwtgvbgmragtuvzaj”--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfagkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlaj]--Rlgvgamkzbgbrfu,gcrlxagkpgFviu kl,gasiiuaakzagbkgbmvb
frxmbtgVouhvl uz,g.uivfugykrluzagvl gaizrnuluzagvbgZkfu;gvgbtzvlbgkp
Arirot,gvgwu vlbgvbgIkzrlbm;gvgiklesuzkzgkpgklu-mvopgkpgbmugqkzo gvl 
xuluzvogkpgakgfvltgvzfrua,gvgfrauzv.ougaswworvlbgbkgbmugzvaivootgkppriuza
kpgvgcrlxgkpgUxtwb:gakgfsimg r gbmugwzkoklxvbrklgkpgprnugkzgarhgfklbmagkp
orpugikabgbmugxzuvbgWkfwut;gvl ,grlgkszgpvbmuza’g vta,gOs knrikgApkzdv,
bmugbulbmg scugkpgFrovl,gqmkfgvoogRbvotgmv gakgoklxgbzsicou gsl uz,gqva
auulgbkg rugvgqzubimu gwzrakluzgvbgOkimua,g.sbglkbgbroogmugmv gornu gbul
tuvzagrlgivwbrnrbt,--[Mugqvagrfwzraklu g.tgOksragHRjgrlgvlgrzklgivxu]--
qmrimgqvagbmugqkzabgwvzbgkpgmragpkzbslujggBmugpvrzuabgkpgvoogesuula,
--[Fvzt,gEsuulgkpgAikbaj]--qr kqgbkgbmugxzuvbuabgcrlxgrlgUszkwu,g r gamu
lkbgikfugbkg rug.tgbmugmvl gkpgvlguhuisbrkluz?ggSlqkzbmtgvl g.vz.vzksa
izsuobt!ggVl gvgbmksavl gfkzuguhvfwouagbmuzugvzugkpgbmugavfugcrl ;gpkzgrb
auufagbmvbgvagabkzfagvl gbufwuabagmvnugvgfvoriugvxvrlabgbmugwzks gvl 
knuzbkquzrlxgmurxmbagkpgkszgokpbtg.sro rlxa,gbmuzugvzugvoakgawrzrbagv.knu
bmvbgvzugulnrksagkpgbmugxzuvbluaauagmuzug.uokq:

gggggggggggggg“Saesugv ukgzuagmsfvlvagnragv. rbvgesvu vf
gggggggggggggggK.buzrb,gubgwsoimzkagpvaiua,gavunvaesugauiszua
gggggggggggggggWzkisoivzu,gvigos r.zrkgar.rgmv.uzugnr ubszj”

ggggg[“Akgbzsugrbgragbmvbgakfugkiisobgwkquzgswaubagmsfvlgvppvrza,gbmu
gggggxorbbuzrlxgpvaiuagvl gbmugizsuogvhuagawszlagsl uzgpkkb,gvl gauufagbk
gggggfvcugawkzbgkpgbmufj”--Osizubrsa,gnjgg1231j]

Vl grbgamkso gauuf,gvoak,gbmvbgPkzbslugakfubrfuagoruagrlgqvrbgbkgaszwzrau
bmugovabgmkszgkpgkszgornua,gbkgamkqgbmugwkquzgamugmva,grlgvgfkfulb,gbk
knuzbmzkqgqmvbgamugqvagakgfvltgtuvzagrlg.sro rlx,gfvcrlxgsagiztgksbgqrbm
Ov.uzrsa:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lrfrzsfgmvig ru
ggggggggggSlvgwosagnrhrgfrmr,gesvfgnrnul sfgpsrbj”

ggggg[“Rgmvnugornu goklxuzg.tgbmragklug vtgbmvlgRgamkso gmvnu
ggggg kluj”--Fvizk.rsa,grrjgg7j]

Vl ,grlgbmragaulau,gbmragxkk gv nriugkpgAkoklgfvtgzuvaklv.otg.ugbvcul;
.sbgmu,g.urlxgvgwmrokakwmuzg(qrbmgqmrimgakzbgkpgfulgbmugpvnkszagvl 
 raxzviuagkpgPkzbslugabvl gpkzglkbmrlx,gurbmuzgbkgbmugfvcrlxgvgfvlgmvwwt
kzgslmvwwt,gvl gqrbmgqmkfgxzvl uszagvl gwkquzagvzugviir ulbagkpgvgesvorbt
vofkabgrl rppuzulb)gRgvfgvwbgbkgbmrlcgbmvbgmugmv gakfugpszbmuzgvrf,gvl 
bmvbgmragfuvlrlxgqva,gbmvbgbmugnuztgpuorirbtgkpgorpugrbauop,gqmrim
 uwul agswklgbmugbzvlesroorbtgvl giklbulbfulbgkpgvgquoo- uaiul u gawrzrb,
vl gbmugzuakosbrklgvl gvaaszvliugkpgvgquoo-kz uzu gakso,gksxmbglunuzgbk
.ugvbbzr.sbu gbkgvltgfvlgbroogmugmvagprzabg.uulgauulgbkgwovtgbmugovab,
vl ,g ks.bouaa,gbmugmvz uabgvibgkpgmragwvzbjggBmuzugfvtg.ug raxsraugvl 
 raarfsovbrklgrlgvoogbmugzuab:gqmuzugbmuaugprlugwmrokakwmrivog raikszaua
vzugklotgwsbgkl,gvl gqmuzugviir ulb,glkbgbksimrlxgsagbkgbmugesric,gxrnua
sagouraszugbkgfvrlbvrlgbmugavfugxzvnrbtgkpgvawuib;g.sb,grlgbmragovab
aiulugkpg uvbm,gbmuzugraglkgfkzugikslbuzpurbrlx:gqugfsabgawuvcgksbgwovrl,
vl g raiknuzgqmvbgbmuzugragkpgxkk gvl giouvlgrlgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmugwkb,

gggggggggggggg“Lvfgnuzv;gnkiuagbszlg ufsfgwuibkzugv.grfk
gggggggggggggggUyrirslbsz;gubguzrwrbszgwuzaklv,gfvlubgzuaj”

ggggg[“Bmulgvbgovabgbzsbmgraasuagpzkfgbmugmuvzb;gbmugnrakz’agxklu,
gggggbmugfvlgzufvrlaj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjgg57j]

Qmuzupkzu,gvbgbmragovab,gvoogbmugkbmuzgvibrklagkpgkszgorpugksxmbgbkg.u
bzru gvl garpbu :g‘bragbmugfvabuz- vt,g‘bragbmug vtgbmvbgragys xugkpgvoo
bmugzuab,g“‘bragbmug vt,”gavtagklugkpgbmugvlirulba,--[Auluiv,gUwj,g102]--
“bmvbgfsabg.ugys xugkpgvoogftgpkzuxkrlxgtuvzaj”ggBkg uvbmg kgRgzupuzgbmu
vaavtgkpgbmugpzsrbgkpgvoogftgabs rua:gqugamvoogbmulgauugqmubmuzgft
 raikszauagivfugklotgpzkfgftgfksbmgkzgpzkfgftgmuvzbjggRgmvnugauulgfvltg.t
bmurzg uvbmgxrnugvgxkk gkzgvlgroogzuwsbugbkgbmurzgqmkougorpujggAirwrk,
bmugpvbmuz-rl-ovqgkpgWkfwut,grlg trlx,gquoogzufknu gbmugroogkwrlrklgbmvb
broogbmulgunuztgklugmv gikliurnu gkpgmrfjggUwvfrlkl vag.urlxgvacu gqmrim
kpgbmugbmzuugmugmv grlgxzuvbuabguabuuf,gImv.zrva,gRwmrizvbua,gkzgmrfauopj
“Tksgfsabgprzabgauugsag ru,”gavr gmu,g“.upkzugbmvbgesuabrklgivlg.u
zuakonu j”--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmj]--Vl ,grlgbzsbm,gmugqkso grlprlrbuot
qzklxgbmvbgfvlgqmkgqkso gqurxmgmrfgqrbmksbgbmugmklkszgvl gxzvl uszgkpgmra
ul j

Xk gmvagkz uzu gvoogbmrlxagvagrbgmvag.uabgwouvau gMrf;g.sbgRgmvnu,grlgft
brfu,gauulgbmzuugkpgbmugfkabguhuizv.ougwuzaklagbmvbgunuzgRgcluqgrlgvoo
fvlluzgkpgv.kfrlv.ougornrlx,gvl gbmugfkabgrlpvfksagbkg.kkb,gqmkgvoog ru 
vgnuztgzuxsovzg uvbm,gvl grlgvoogirzisfabvliuagikfwkau ,gunulgbk
wuzpuibrkljggBmuzugvzug.zvnugvl gpkzbslvbug uvbma:gRgmvnugauulg uvbmgisb
bmugbmzuv gkpgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgvgwzk rxrksagv nvliufulb,gvl grlgbmugmurxmb
vl gpokquzgkpgrbagrlizuvau,gkpgvgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,--[Fklbvrxlug ks.bouaa
zupuzagbkgmragpzrul gUbrullug ugovg.kubru,gvbgqmkaug uvbmgrlg1563gmugqva
wzuaulbj]--qrbmgakgxokzrksagvlgul gbmvb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gmragvf.rbrksa
vl gxuluzksag uarxlagmv glkbmrlxgrlgbmufgakgmrxmgvl gxzuvbgvagbmurz
rlbuzzswbrkljggMugvzzrnu ,gqrbmksbgikfwoubrlxgmragikszau,gvbgbmugwoviugbk
qmrimgmragvf.rbrklgvrfu ,gqrbmgxzuvbuzgxokztgbmvlgmugikso gurbmuzgmvnu
mkwu gkzg uarzu ,gvlbrirwvbrlxg.tgmragpvoogbmuglvfugvl gwkquzgbkgqmrimgmu
vawrzu grlgwuzpuibrlxgmragivzuuzjggRlgbmugys xfulbgRgfvcugkpgvlkbmuz
fvl’agorpu,gRgvoqvtagk.auznugmkqgmugivzzru gmrfauopgvbgmrag uvbm;gvl gbmu
wzrlirwvogikliuzlgRgmvnugpkzgftgkqlgragbmvbgRgfvtg rugquoo--bmvbgra,
wvbrulbotgvl gbzvlesrootj




IMVWBUZgHRH

BMVBgBKgABS TgWMROKAKWTgRAgBKgOUVZLgBKg RU

Iriuzkgavta--[Bsaij,grjgg31j]--“bmvbgbkgabs tgwmrokakwmtgraglkbmrlxg.sb
bkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgbkg ruj”ggBmugzuvaklgkpgqmrimgra,g.uivsaugabs tgvl 
iklbufwovbrklg kgrlgakfugakzbgqrbm zvqgpzkfgsagkszgakso,gvl gufwoktgrb
auwvzvbuotgpzkfgbmug.k t,gqmrimgragvgcrl gkpgvwwzulbriuamrwgvl gv
zuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm;gkz,guoau,g.uivsaugvoogbmugqra kfgvl gzuvaklrlxgrl
bmugqkzo g kgrlgbmugul giklios ugrlgbmragwkrlb,gbkgbuvimgsaglkbgbkgpuvz
bkg rujggVl gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gurbmuzgkszgzuvaklgfkicagsa,gkzgrbgksxmbgbk
mvnuglkgkbmuzgvrfg.sbgkszgiklbulbfulbgklot,glkzgbkgul uvnkszgvltbmrlx
.sb,grlgasf,gbkgfvcugsagornugquoo,gvl ,gvagbmugMkotgAizrwbszugavta,gvb
kszguvaujggVoogbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmugqkzo gvxzuugrlgbmra,gbmvbgwouvaszugra
kszgul ,gbmksxmgqugfvcugsaugkpg rnuzagfuvlagbkgvbbvrlgrb:gbmutgqkso ,
kbmuzqrau,g.ugzuyuibu gvbgbmugprzabgfkbrkl;gpkzgqmkgqkso gxrnuguvzgbkgmrf
bmvbgamkso gwzkwkaugvpporibrklgvl gfrauztgpkzgmragul ?ggBmugiklbzknuzarua
vl g rawsbuagkpgbmugwmrokakwmrivogauibagswklgbmragwkrlbgvzugfuzuot
nuz.vo:

ggggggggggggggg“Bzvlaiszzvfsagakouzbraarfvaglsxva”

ggggg[“Oubgsagacrwgknuzgbmkaugas.bougbzrpouaj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g117j]

--bmuzugragfkzugrlgbmufgkpgkwwkarbrklgvl gk.abrlvitgbmvlgragiklarabulb
qrbmgakgavizu gvgwzkpuaarkl;g.sbgqmvbakunuzgwuzaklvxugvgfvlgbvcuagswkl
mrfauopgbkgwuzpkzf,gmugunuzgfrhuagmragkqlgwvzbgqrbmgrbj

Oubgbmugwmrokakwmuzagavtgqmvbgbmutgqroo,gbmugbmrlxgvbgqmrimgqugvoogvrf,
unulgrlgnrzbsugragwouvaszujggRbgvfsauagfugbkgzvbbougrlguvzagbmragqkz ,
qmrimgbmutgakglvsauvbugbkgvl grpgrbgarxlrptgakfugaswzufugwouvaszugvl 
iklbulbfulb,grbgragfkzug sugbkgbmugvaarabvliugkpgnrzbsugbmvlgbkgvltgkbmuz
vaarabvliugqmvbunuzjggBmragwouvaszu,gpkzg.urlxgfkzugxvt,gfkzugarluqt,
fkzugzk.sabgvl gfkzugfvlot,gragklotgbmugfkzugauzrksaotgnkoswbsksa,gvl gqu
ksxmbgxrnugrbgbmuglvfugkpgwouvaszu,gvagbmvbgqmrimgragfkzugpvnkszv.ou,
xulbou,gvl glvbszvo,gvl glkbgbmvbgpzkfgqmrimgqugmvnug ulkfrlvbu grbjggBmu
kbmuzgvl gfuvluzgwouvaszu,grpgrbgikso g uauznugbmragpvrzglvfu,grbgksxmb
bkg.ug.tgqvtgkpgikfwubrbrkl,gvl glkbgkpgwzrnrouxujggRgprl grbgouaaguhufwb
pzkfgbzvnuzauagvl grliklnulruliuagbmvlgnrzbsugrbauop;gvl ,g.uar uagbmvb
bmugulyktfulbgragfkzugfkfulbvzt,gposr ,gvl gpzvro,grbgmvagrbagqvbimrlxa,
pvaba,gvl gov.ksza,grbagaquvbgvl grbag.okk ;gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gmva
wvzbrisovzgbkgrbauopgakgfvltgaunuzvogakzbagkpgamvzwgvl gqksl rlx
wvaarkla,gvl gakg soogvgavbrubtgvbbul rlxgrb,gvaguesvogrbgbkgbmugaunuzuab
wulvliujggVl gqugfrabvcugrpgqugbmrlcgbmvbgbmuaugrlikffk rbruagauznugrb
pkzgvgawszgvl gvgauvaklrlxgbkgrbagaquubluaag(vagrlglvbszugklugiklbzvztgra
esriculu g.tgvlkbmuz),gkzgavt,gqmulgqugikfugbkgnrzbsu,gbmvbgorcu
iklauesuliuagvl g rpprisobruagknuzqmuofgvl gzul uzgrbgvsabuzugvl 
rlviiuaar.ou;gqmuzuva,gfsimgfkzugvwbotgbmvlgrlgnkoswbsksaluaa,gbmut
ullk.ou,gamvzwul,gvl gmurxmbulgbmugwuzpuibgvl g rnrlugwouvaszugbmut
wzkiszugsajggMugzul uzagmrfauopgslqkzbmtgkpgrbgqmkgqroogikslbuzwkraugrba
ikabgqrbmgrbagpzsrb,gvl glurbmuzgsl uzabvl agbmug.ouaarlxglkzgmkqgbkgsau
rbjggBmkaugqmkgwzuvimgbkgsagbmvbgbmugesuabgkpgrbgragizvxxt,g rpprisob,
vl gwvrlpso,g.sbgrbagpzsrbrklgwouvavlb,gqmvbg kgbmutgfuvlg.tgbmvbg.sbgbk
buoogsagbmvbgrbgragvoqvtagslwouvarlx?ggPkzgqmvbgmsfvlgfuvlagqroogunuz
vbbvrlgrbagulyktfulb?ggBmugfkabgwuzpuibgmvnug.uulgpvrlgbkgiklbulb
bmufauonuagbkgvawrzugslbkgrb,gvl gbkgvwwzkvimgrbgklot,gqrbmksbgunuz
wkaauaarlxgrbjgg.sbgbmutgvzug uiurnu ,gauurlxgbmvbgkpgvoogbmugwouvaszua
qugclkq,gbmugnuztgwszasrbgragwouvavlbjggBmugvbbufwbgunuzgzuoramuagkpgbmu
esvorbtgkpgbmugbmrlxgbkgqmrimgrbgrag rzuibu ,gpkzgrbgragvgxkk gwvzbgkp,
vl giklas.abvlbrvogqrbm,gbmuguppuibjggBmugpuorirbtgvl g.uvbrbs ugbmvb
xorbbuzagrlgNrzbsu,gamrluagbmzksxmksbgvoogmuzgvwwszbulvliuagvl gvnulsua,
unulgbkgbmugprzabgulbztgvl gsbfkabgorfrbaj

Lkq,gkpgvoogbmug.uluprbagbmvbgnrzbsugiklpuzagswklgsa,gbmugiklbufwbgkp
 uvbmgragklugkpgbmugxzuvbuab,gvagbmugfuvlagbmvbgviikffk vbuagmsfvlgorpu
qrbmgvgakpbgvl guvatgbzvlesroorbt,gvl gxrnuagsagvgwszugvl gwouvavlbgbvabu
kpgornrlx,gqrbmksbgqmrimgvoogkbmuzgwouvaszugqkso g.uguhbrlibjggQmrimgra
bmugzuvaklgqmtgvoogbmugzsouagiulbzugvl gikliszgrlgbmragklugvzbrioujggVl 
vobmksxmgbmutgvoogrlgorcugfvlluz,gqrbmgikffklgviikz ,gbuvimgsagvoakgbk
 uawraugwvrl,gwknuzbt,gvl gbmugkbmuzgviir ulbagbkgqmrimgmsfvlgorpugra
as.yuib,grbgraglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gqrbmgbmugavfugakorirbs u,gvagquoog.t
zuvaklgbmuaugviir ulbagvzuglkbgkpgakgxzuvbgluiuaarbt,gbmugxzuvbuzgwvzbgkp
fvlcrl gwvaarlxgknuzgbmurzgqmkougornuagqrbmksbgunuzgclkqrlxgqmvbgwknuzbt
ra,gvl gakfugqrbmksbgakzzkqgkzgaricluaa,gvagHulkwmrosagbmugfsarirvl,gqmk
ornu gvgmsl zu gvl garhgtuvzagrlgvgwuzpuibgvl giklbrlsvogmuvobm;gvagvoak
.uivsau,gvbgbmugqkzab,g uvbmgivl,gqmulunuzgqugwouvau,gisbgamkzbgvl gwsb
vlgul gbkgvoogkbmuzgrliklnulruliuajgg.sbgvagbkg uvbm,grbgragrlunrbv.ou:--

gggggggggggggg“Kfluaguk ufgikxrfsz;gkflrsf
gggggggggggggggNuzavbszgszlvgauzrsagkirsa
gggggggggggggggAkzaguhrbszv,gubglkagrlgvubuzlsf
gggggggggggggggUhrorsfgrfwkarbszvgitf.vuj”

ggggg[“Qugvzugvoog.ksl gklugnktvxu;gbmugokbgkpgvoo,gakkluzgkzgovbuz,gra
gggggbkgikfugksbgkpgbmugszljggVoogfsabgbkgubuzlvoguhrougavrogvqvtj”
ggggggg--Mkzj,gK j,grrjgg3,g25j]

vl ,giklauesulbot,grpgrbgpzrxmbagsa,g‘bragvgwuzwubsvogbkzfulb,gpkzgqmrim
bmuzugraglkgakzbgkpgiklakovbrkljggBmuzugraglkgqvtg.tgqmrimgrbgfvtglkb
zuvimgsajggQugfvtgiklbrlsvootgbszlgkszgmuv agbmragqvtgvl gbmvb,gvagrlgv
asawuibu gikslbzt:

gggggggggg“Esvu,gesvargavhsfgBvlbvok,gaufwuzgrfwul ubj”

gggggggggg[“Unuz,gorcugBvlbvosagabklu,gmvlxagknuzgsaj”
gggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grjg18j]

Kszgikszbagkpgysabriugkpbulgaul g.vicgikl uflu gizrfrlvoagbkg.uguhuisbu 
swklgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmugizrfugqvagikffrbbu ;g.sb,givzztgbmufgbkgprlu
mksauag.tgbmugqvt,gwzuwvzugpkzgbmufgbmug.uabgulbuzbvrlfulbgtksgivl--

gggggggggggggggggggg“LklgArisovug vwua
ggggggggggggggg soiufguov.kzv.slbgavwkzuf:
gggggggggggggggLklgvnrsfgitvbmuviuvugivlbsa
gggggggggggggggAkflsfgzu siulbj”

ggggg[“Arirorvlg vrlbruagqrooglkbgbricougbmurzgwvovbua,glkzgbmugfuok tgkp
ggggg.rz agvl gmvzwag.zrlxg.vicgaouuwj”--Mkzj,gK j,grrrjg1,g18j]

 kgtksgbmrlcgbmutgivlgzuoramgrb?gvl gbmvbgbmugpvbvogul gkpgbmurzgykszlut
.urlxgiklbrlsvootg.upkzugbmurzgutua,gqkso glkbgvobuzgvl g uwzvnugbmurz
wvovbugpzkfgbvabrlxgbmuaugzuxvorka?

ggggggggg“Vs rbgrbuz,glsfuzvbesug rua,gawvbrkesugnrvzsf
ggggggggggFubrbszgnrbvf;gbkzesubszgwuabugpsbszvj”

ggggg[“Mugiklar uzagbmugzksbu,gikfwsbuagbmugbrfugkpgbzvnuoorlx,gfuvaszrlx
gggggmragorpug.tgbmugoulxbmgkpgbmugykszlut;gvl gbkzfulbagmrfauopg.t
gggggbmrlcrlxgkpgbmug.okqgbkgikfuj”--Iovs rvlsa,grlgZspj,grrjgg137j]

Bmugul gkpgkszgzviugrag uvbm;g‘bragbmugluiuaavztgk.yuibgkpgkszgvrf,
qmrim,grpgrbgpzrxmbgsa,gmkqgragrbgwkaar.ougbkgv nvliugvgabuwgqrbmksbgv
prbgkpgvxsu?ggBmugzufu tgbmugnsoxvzgsaugraglkbgbkgbmrlcgkl’b;g.sbgpzkf
qmvbg.zsbramgabswr rbtgivlgbmutg uzrnugakgxzkaagvg.orl luaa?ggBmutgfsab
.zr ougbmugvaag.tgbmugbvro:

gggggggggg“Esrgivwrbugrwaugaskgrlabrbsrbgnuabrxrvgzubzk,”

ggggg[“Qmkgrlgmragpkootgauucagbkgv nvliug.vicqvz a”--Osizubrsa,grnjg474]

‘braglkgqkl uzgrpgmug.ugkpbulgbzvwwu grlgbmugwrbpvoojggBmutgvppzrxmb
wukwougqrbmgbmugnuztgfulbrklgkpg uvbm,gvl gfvltgizkaagbmufauonua,gvagrb
quzugbmuglvfugkpgbmug unrojggVl g.uivsaugbmugfvcrlxgvgfvl’agqroogragrl
zupuzuliugbkg trlx,glkbgvgfvlgqroog.ugwuzasv u gbkgbvcugvgwulgrlgmvl gbk
bmvbgwszwkau,gbroogbmugwmtarirvlgmvagwvaau gaulbuliugswklgvl gbkbvoot
xrnulgmrfgknuz,gvl gbmulg.ubqrhbgvl gbuzzkz,gXk gclkqagrlgmkqgprbgv
ikl rbrklgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgmugragbkg kgrbj

BmugZkfvla,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmragwkkzgatoov.oug uvbmgaksl u gakgmvzamotgbk
bmurzguvzagvl gauufu gakgkfrlksa,gpksl gksbgvgqvtgbkgakpbulgvl gawrlgrb
ksbg.tgvgwuzrwmzvara,gvl grlabuv gkpgwzklkslirlxgasimgvgklugrag uv ,
avr ,g“Asimgvgklugmvagornu ,”gkzg“Asimgvgklugmvagiuvau gbkgornu”
g--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgIriuzk,gijgg22:]--pkz,gwzknr u gbmuzugqvagvltgfulbrkl
kpgorpugrlgbmugivau,gbmksxmgwvab,grbgivzzru gtubgakfugaksl gkp
iklakovbrkljggVl gpzkfgbmufgrbgragbmvbgqugmvnug.kzzkqu gkszguhwzuaarkl,
“BmugovbugFklaruszgasimgvl gasimgvgkluj”--[“pusgFklaruszgslgbuoj”]
Wuzv nulbszu,gvagbmugavtrlxgra,gbmugbuzfgqugmvnugornu gragqkzbmgksz
fklutjggRgqvag.kzlg.ubqrhbguounulgvl gbquonugk’iokicgrlgbmugpkzulkklgbmu
ovabg vtgkpgPu.zsvztg1533,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgikfwsbvbrkl,g.uxrllrlxgbmu
tuvzgbmug1abgkpgYvlsvzt,--[Bmragqvagrlgnrzbsugkpgvlgkz rlvliugkpgImvzoua
RHjgrlg1563jggWzunrksaotgbmugtuvzgikffuliu gvbgUvabuz,gakgbmvbgbmug1ab
Yvlsvztg1563g.uivfugbmugprzabg vtgkpgbmugtuvzg1563j]--vl grbgraglkqg.sb
ysabgprpbuulg vtagarliugRgqvagikfwoubuglrlu-vl -bmrzbtgtuvzagko ;gRgfvcu
viikslbgbkgornu,gvbgouvab,gvagfvltgfkzujggRlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbkgbzks.ougv
fvl’agauopgqrbmgbmugbmksxmbgkpgvgbmrlxgakgpvzgkppgquzugpkootjgg.sbgqmvb?
Tkslxgvl gko g rugswklgbmugavfugbuzfa;glkgklug uwvzbagksbgkpgorpu
kbmuzqraugbmvlgrpgmugmv g.sbgysabg.upkzugulbuzu grlbkgrb;glurbmuzgragvlt
fvlgakgko gvl g uizuwrb,gqmk,gmvnrlxgmuvz gkpgFubmsauovm,g kuaglkbgbmrlc
mugmvagtubgbqulbtgxkk gtuvzagbkgikfujggPkkogbmvbgbmksgvzb!ggqmkgmva
vaaszu gslbkgbmuugbmugbuzfgkpgorpu?ggBmksg uwul uabgswklgwmtarirvla’
bvoua:gzvbmuzgiklasobguppuibagvl guhwuzruliujggViikz rlxgbkgbmugikffkl
ikszaugkpgbmrlxa,g‘bragoklxgarliugbmvbgbmksgmvabgornu g.tguhbzvkz rlvzt
pvnksz;gbmksgmvabgvozuv tgksbornu gbmugkz rlvztgbuzfgkpgorpujggVl gbmvb
rbgragak,gzuicklgswgbmtgviesvrlbvliu,gmkqgfvltgfkzugmvnug ru g.upkzugbmut
vzzrnu gvbgbmtgvxugbmvlgmvnugvbbvrlu gslbkgrb;gvl gkpgbmkaugqmkgmvnu
ullk.ou gbmurzgornuag.tgbmurzgzulkql,gbvcug.sbgvlgviikslb,gvl gRg vzu
ovtgvgqvxuzgbmksgqrobgprl gfkzugqmkgmvnug ru g.upkzugbmvlgvpbuz
prnu-vl -bmrzbtgtuvzagkpgvxujggRbgragpsoog.kbmgkpgzuvaklgvl gwrubt,gbkk,
bkgbvcuguhvfwoug.tgbmugmsfvlrbtgkpgYuasagImzrabgMrfauop;glkq,gMugul u 
Mragorpugvbgbmzuu-vl -bmrzbtgtuvzajggBmugxzuvbuabgfvl,gbmvbgqvaglkgfkzu
bmvlgvgfvl,gVouhvl uz,g ru gvoakgvbgbmugavfugvxujggMkqgfvltgaunuzvogqvta
mvag uvbmgbkgaszwzraugsa?

gggggggggggggg“Esr gesraesu,gnrbub,glslesvfgmkfrlrgavbra
gggggggggggggggIvsbsfguabgrlgmkzvaj”

ggggg[“.ugvagivsbrksagvagmugfvt,gfvlgivlglunuzgpkzuauugbmug vlxuzgbmvb
gggggfvtgvbgvltgmkszg.upvogmrfj”--MkzjgKjgrrjgg13,g13j]

Bkgkfrbgpunuzagvl gwouszrarua,gqmkgqkso gunuzgmvnugrfvxrlu gbmvbgvg scu
kpg.zrbbvlt,--[YuvlgRRjg ru g1305j]--amkso g.ugwzuaau gbkg uvbmgrlgv
izkq gvagbmvbg scugqvagvbgbmugulbztgkpgWkwugIoufulb,gftglurxm.ksz,grlbk
Otkla?--[Fklbvrxlugawuvcagkpgmrfgvagrpgmugmv g.uulgvgiklbufwkzvzt
lurxm.ksz,gwuzmvwag.uivsaugmugqvagbmugVzim.ramkwgkpg.kz uvshjgg.uzbzvl 
ougXkbgqvagWkwugsl uzgbmugbrbougkpgIoufulbgNj,g1305-14j]--Mvabgbmksglkb
auulgklugkpgkszgcrlxa--[MulztgRRj,gcroou grlgvgbkszlvfulb,gYsotg10,
1559]--croou gvbgvgbrobrlx,gvl g r glkbgklugkpgmragvliuabkzag rug.t
ykabougkpgvgmkx?--[Wmrorw,guo uabgaklgkpgOksragougXzkaj]--VUaimtosa,
bmzuvbulu gqrbmgbmugpvoogkpgvgmksau,gqvagbkgfsimgwszwkaugirzisfawuibgbk
vnkr gbmvbg vlxuz,gauurlxgbmvbgmugqvagclkicu gklgbmugmuv g.tgvgbkzbkrau
pvoorlxgksbgkpgvlguvxou’agbvoklagrlgbmugvrzjggVlkbmuzgqvagimkcu gqrbmgv
xzvwu-abklu;--[NvojggFvhj,grhjgg12,guhbjg2j]--vlgufwuzkzgcroou gqrbm
bmugaizvbimgkpgvgikf.grlgikf.rlxgmragmuv jggVUfrorsagOuwr sagqrbmgv
absf.ougvbgmragkqlgbmzuamko ,--[Worlt,gLvbjggMrabj,gnrrjgg33j]--
vl gVspr rsagqrbmgvgykabougvxvrlabgbmug kkzgvagmugulbuzu gbmu
iksliro-imvf.uzjggVl g.ubqrhbgbmugnuztgbmrxmagkpgqkful,gIkzluorsagXvoosa
bmugwzkibkz;gBrxroorlsa,givwbvrlgkpgbmugqvbimgvbgZkfu;gOs knrik,gaklgkp
Xsr kg rgXkldvxv,gFvzesragkpgFvlbsv;gvl g(kpgqkzauguhvfwou)gAwusarwwsa,gv
Wovbklrigwmrokakwmuz,gvl gklugkpgkszgWkwuajggBmugwkkzgys xug.u.rsagxvnu
v ykszlfulbgrlgvgivaugpkzgurxmbg vta;g.sbgmugmrfauop,gfuvlqmrou,gqva
ikl uflu g.tg uvbm,gvl gmragkqlgabvtgkpgorpuguhwrzu jggQmroabgIvrsa
Ysorsa,gbmugwmtarirvl,gqvagvlkrlbrlxgbmugutuagkpgvgwvbrulb,g uvbmgiokau 
mragkql;gvl ,grpgRgfvtg.zrlxgrlgvlguhvfwougkpgftgkqlg.okk ,gvg.zkbmuzgkp
frlu,gIvwbvrlgAbjgFvzbrl,gvgtkslxgfvl,gbmzuu-vl -bqulbtgtuvzagko ,gqmk
mv gvozuv tgxrnulgaspprirulbgbuabrfkltgkpgmragnvoksz,gwovtrlxgvgfvbimgvb
bullra,gzuiurnu gvg.okqgkpgvg.voogvgorbbougv.knugmragzrxmbguvz,gqmrim,gva
rbgxvnuglkgfvlluzgkpgarxlgkpgqksl gkzgiklbsarkl,gmugbkkcglkglkbriugkpgrb,
lkzgakgfsimgvagavbg kqlgbkgzuwkaugmrfauop,g.sb,glunuzbmuouaa,g ru gqrbmrl
prnugkzgarhgmkszagvpbuzgkpgvlgvwkwouhtgkiivarklu g.tgbmvbg.okqj

Bmuaugakgpzuesulbgvl gikffklguhvfwouagwvaarlxgunuztg vtg.upkzugkszgutua,
mkqgragrbgwkaar.ougvgfvlgamkso g raulxvxugmrfauopgpzkfgbmugbmksxmbgkp
 uvbm,gkzgvnkr gpvlitrlxgbmvbgrbgmvagsagunuztgfkfulbg.tgbmugbmzkvb?ggQmvb
fvbbuzgragrb,gtksgqroogavt,gqmrimgqvtgrbgikfuagbkgwvaa,gwzknr u gvgfvl
 kuaglkbgbuzzrptgmrfauopgqrbmgbmuguhwuibvbrkl?ggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgvfgkpgbmra
frl ,gvl grpgvgfvlgikso g.tgvltgfuvlagvnkr grb,gbmksxmg.tgizuuwrlxgsl uz
vgivop’agacrl,gRgvfgklugbmvbgamkso glkbg.ugvamvfu gkpgbmugamrpb;gvoogR
vrfgvbgra,gbkgwvaagftgbrfugvbgftguvau,gvl gbmugzuizuvbrklagbmvbgqroogfkab
iklbzr.sbugbkgrb,gRgbvcugmko gkp,gvagorbbougxokzrksagvl guhufwovztgvagtks
qroo:

gggggggggggggg“Wzvubsouzrfgjggjggjgg uorzsagrluzaesugnr uzr,
ggggggggggggggg sfgfuvg uouibulbgfvovgfu,gnuog ulresugpvoovlb,
gggggggggggggggEsvfgavwuzu,gubgzrlxrj”

ggggg[“Rgmv gzvbmuzgauufgfv gvl gvgaosxxvz ,gakgbmvbgftg upuibagvzu
gggggvxzuuv.ougbkgftauop,gkzgbmvbgRgvfglkbgwvrlpsootgiklairksagkpgbmuf,
gggggbmvlg.ugqrau,gvl gimvwbrksaj”--Mkzj,gUwj,grrjg2,g126j]

.sbg‘bragpkootgbkgbmrlcgkpg krlxgvltbmrlxgbmvbgqvtjggBmutgxk,gbmutgikfu,
bmutgxvookwgvl g vliu,gvl glkbgvgqkz gkpg uvbmjggVoogbmragragnuztgprlu;
.sbgqrbmvo,gqmulgrbgikfuagurbmuzgbkgbmufauonua,gbmurzgqrnua,gbmurz
imro zul,gkzgpzrul a,gaszwzrarlxgbmufgvbgslvqvzuagvl gslwzuwvzu ,gbmul,
qmvbgbkzfulb,gqmvbgksbizrua,gqmvbgfv luaagvl g uawvrz!gg r gtksgunuzgauu
vltbmrlxgakgas. su ,gakgimvlxu ,gvl gakgiklpksl u ?ggVgfvlgfsab,
bmuzupkzu,gfvcugfkzuguvzotgwzknrarklgpkzgrb;gvl gbmrag.zsbramgluxorxuliu,
ikso grbgwkaar.otgok xugrlgbmug.zvrlgkpgvltgfvlgkpgaulaug(qmrimgRgbmrlc
sbbuzotgrfwkaar.ou),gauooagsagrbagfuzimvl raugbkkg uvzjggQuzugrbgvlguluft
bmvbgikso g.ugvnkr u ,gRgqkso gbmulgv nraugbkg.kzzkqgvzfagunulgkp
ikqvz riugrbauop;g.sbgauurlxgrbgraglkb,gvl gbmvbgrbgqroogivbimgtksgva
quoogpotrlxgvl gwovtrlxgbmugwkobzkkl,gvagabvl rlxgbk’bgorcugvlgmkluab
fvl:--

ggggggggggggggggggg“Lufwugubgpsxviufgwuzauesrbszgnrzsf,
ggggggggggggggggggggLuigwvzirbgrf.uooragysnulbvu
ggggggggggggggggggggWkworbr.sagbrfr kesugbuzxkj”

ggggg[“Mugwszasuagbmugpotrlxgwkobzkkl,glkzgawvzuagbmugmvfabzrlxagkpgbmu
gggggslqvzorcugtksbmgqmkgbszlagmrag.vic”--Mkzj,gUwj,grrrjg2,g14j]

Vl gauurlxgbmvbglkgbufwuzgkpgvzfagragkpgwzkkpgbkgauiszugsa:--

gggggggggggggg“Roougoriubgpuzzkgivsbsa,gaugikl vbgubgvuzu,
gggggggggggggggFkzagbvfulgrliosasfgwzkbzvmubgrl ugivwsb”

ggggg[“Oubgmrfgmr ug.uluvbmgrzklgkzg.zvaagrlgmragpuvz,g uvbmgqroogwsoo
gggggmragmuv gksbgkpgmragvzfkszj”--Wzkwuzbrksagrrrjg18]

--oubgsagouvzlg.zvnuotgbkgabvl gkszgxzksl ,gvl gprxmbgmrfjggVl gbkg.uxrl
bkg uwzrnugmrfgkpgbmugxzuvbuabgv nvlbvxugmugmvagknuzgsa,goubgsagbvcugv
qvtgesrbugiklbzvztgbkgbmugikffklgikszaujggOubgsag ravzfgmrfgkpgmra
lknuobtgvl gabzvlxuluaa,goubgsagiklnuzaugvl g.ugpvfrorvzgqrbmgmrf,gvl 
mvnuglkbmrlxgakgpzuesulbgrlgkszgbmksxmbagvag uvbmjggSwklgvoogkiivarkla
zuwzuaulbgmrfgbkgkszgrfvxrlvbrklgrlgmragunuztgamvwu;gvbgbmugabsf.orlxgkp
vgmkzau,gvbgbmugpvoorlxgkpgvgbrou,gvbgbmugouvabgwzricgqrbmgvgwrl,goubgsa
wzuaulbotgiklar uz,gvl gavtgbkgkszauonua,g“Quoo,gvl gqmvbgrpgrbgmv g.uul
 uvbmgrbauop?”ggvl ,gbmuzuswkl,goubgsagulikszvxugvl gpkzbrptgkszauonuaj
Oubgsagunuzfkzu,gvfr abgkszgykoorbtgvl gpuvabrlx,gaubgbmugzufuf.zvliugkp
kszgpzvrogikl rbrklg.upkzugkszgutua,glunuzgasppuzrlxgkszauonuagbkg.ugak
pvzgbzvlawkzbu gqrbmgkszg uorxmba,g.sbgbmvbgqugmvnugakfugrlbuznvoagkp
zupouibrlxgswkl,gvl giklar uzrlxgmkqgfvltgaunuzvogqvtagbmragykoorbtgkp
kszagbul agbkg uvbm,gvl gqrbmgmkqgfvltg vlxuzagrbgbmzuvbulagrbjggBmu
Uxtwbrvlagquzugqklbgbkg kgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,gqmkgrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgbmurz
puvabrlxgvl gfrzbm,givsau gvg zru gacuoubklgkpgvgfvlgbkg.ug.zksxmbgrlbk
bmugzkkfgbkgauznugpkzgvgfufulbkgbkgbmurzgxsuaba:

gggggggggggggg“Kflufgizu ug rufgbr.rg roshraaugaswzufsf
gggggggggggggggXzvbvgaswuznulrub,gesvuglklgawuzv.rbsz,gmkzvj”

ggggg[“Bmrlcguvimg vtgqmulgwvabgragbmtgovab;gbmugluhbg vt,gvagsluhwuibu ,
gggggqroog.ugbmugfkzugquoikfuj”--Mkzj,gUwj,grjg4,g13j]

Qmuzug uvbmgqvrbagpkzgsagragsliuzbvrl;goubgsagokkcgpkzgmrfgunuztqmuzuj
Bmugwzufu rbvbrklgkpg uvbmgragbmugwzufu rbvbrklgkpgor.uzbt;gmugqmkgmva
ouvzlu gbkg rugmvagslouvzlu gbkgauznujggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgunrogrlgorpugpkz
mrfgqmkgzrxmbotgikfwzumul agbmvbgbmugwzrnvbrklgkpgorpugraglkgunro:gbk
clkq,gmkqgbkg rug uornuzagsagpzkfgvoogas.yuibrklgvl giklabzvrlbjggWvsosa
Ufrorsagvlaquzu gmrfgqmkfgbmugfrauzv.ougCrlxgkpgFviu kl,gmragwzrakluz,
aulbgbkgulbzuvbgmrfgbmvbgmugqkso glkbgouv gmrfgrlgmragbzrsfwm,g“Oubgmrf
fvcugbmvbgzuesuabgbkgmrfauopj”--[gWosbvzim,gOrpugkpgWvsosagVufrorsa,
ijg17;gIriuzk,gBsaij,gnjg40j]

Rlgbzsbm,grlgvoogbmrlxa,grpglvbszug kglkbgmuowgvgorbbou,grbgragnuztgmvz 
pkzgvzbgvl grl sabztgbkgwuzpkzfgvltbmrlxgbkgwszwkaujggRgvfgrlgftgkql
lvbszuglkbgfuovlimkori,g.sbgfu rbvbrnu;gvl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgmvnugfkzu
iklbrlsvootgulbuzbvrlu gftauopgqrbmvogbmvlgrfvxrlvbrklagkpg uvbm,gunulgrl
bmugfkabgqvlbklgbrfugkpgftgvxu:

ggggggggggggggg“Ysisl sfgessfgvubvagpokzr vgnuzgvxuzubj”

gggggggggg[“Qmulgftgpokzr gvxugzuykriu grlgwouvavlbgawzrlxj”
gggggggggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrj]

Rlgbmugikfwvltgkpgov rua,gvl gvbgxvfua,gakfugmvnugwuzmvwagbmksxmbgfu
wkaauaau gqrbmgakfugyuvoksat,gkzgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgakfugmkwu,gqmroabgR
qvagulbuzbvrlrlxgftauopgqrbmgbmugzufuf.zvliugkpgakfugklu,gaszwzrau ,gv
puqg vtag.upkzu,gqrbmgvg.szlrlxgpunuzgkpgqmrimgmug ru ,gzubszlrlxgpzkfgvl
ulbuzbvrlfulbgorcugbmra,gqrbmgmragmuv gpsoogkpgr ougpvliruagkpgoknugvl 
ykoorbt,gvagfrlugqvagbmul,gvl gbmvb,gpkzgvsxmbgRgcluq,gbmugavfu- uabrlt
qvagvbbul rlxgfuj

gggggggggg“Yvfgpsuzrb,gluigwkabgslesvfgzunkivzugoriu.rbj”

ggggg[“Wzuaulbotgbmugwzuaulbgqroogmvnugxklu,glunuzgbkg.ugzuivoou j”
ggggggOsizubrsa,grrrjgg928j]

Tubg r glkbgbmragbmksxmbgqzrlcougftgpkzumuv gvltgfkzugbmvlgvltgkbmuzj
Rbgragrfwkaar.oug.sbgqugfsabgpuuogvgabrlxgrlgasimgrfvxrlvbrklagvagbmuau,
vbgprzab;g.sbgqrbmgkpbulgbszlrlxgvl gzubszlrlxgbmufgrlgklu’agfrl ,gbmut,
vbgovab,g.uikfugakgpvfrorvzgvagbkg.uglkgbzks.ougvbgvoo:gkbmuzqrau,gR,gpkz
ftgwvzb,gamkso g.ugrlgvgwuzwubsvogpzrxmbgvl gpzuldt;gpkzglunuzgfvlgqvagak
 rabzsabpsogkpgmragorpu,glunuzgfvlgakgsliuzbvrlgvagbkgrbag szvbrklj
Lurbmuzgmuvobm,gqmrimgRgmvnugmrbmuzbkgunuzgulyktu gnuztgabzklxgvl 
nrxkzksa,gvl gnuztgauo kfgrlbuzzswbu ,g kuagwzkoklx,glkzgaricluaa
iklbzvibgftgmkwuajggUnuztgfrlsbu,gfubmrlca,gRgvfguaivwrlx,gvl grb
ubuzlvootgzslagrlgftgfrl ,gbmvbgqmvbgfvtg.ug klugbk-fkzzkq,gfvtg.ug klu
bk- vtjggMvdvz agvl g vlxuzag k,grlgbzsbm,gorbbougkzglkbmrlxgmvabulgksz
ul ;gvl grpgqugiklar uzgmkqgfvltgbmksavl agfkzugzufvrlgvl gmvlxgknuzgksz
muv a,g.uar uagbmugviir ulbgbmvbgrffu rvbuotgbmzuvbulagsa,gqugamvoogprl 
bmvbgbmugaksl gvl gbmugaric,gbmkaugbmvbgvzugv.zkv gvbgauv,gvl gbmkaugbmvb
arbg.tgbmugprzu,gbmkaugqmkgvzugulxvxu grlg.vbbou,gvl gbmkaugqmkgarbgr ou
vbgmkfu,gvzugbmugklugvagluvzgrbgvagbmugkbmuzj

ggggg“Lufkgvobuzkgpzvxrorkzguab;glufkgrlgizvabrlsfgasrgiuzbrkzj”

ggggg[“Lkgfvlgragfkzugpzvxrougbmvlgvlkbmuz:glkgfvlgfkzugiuzbvrlgbmvl
gggggvlkbmuzgkpgbk-fkzzkqj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g91j]

PkzgvltbmrlxgRgmvnugbkg kg.upkzugRg ru,gbmugoklxuabgouraszugqkso gvwwuvz
bkkgamkzb,gquzugrbg.sbgvlgmksz’ag.sarluaagRgmv gbkg kj

Vgpzrul gkpgfrlugbmugkbmuzg vtgbszlrlxgknuzgftgbv.ouba,gpksl gbmuzurlgv
fufkzvl sfgkpgakfubmrlxgRgqkso gmvnug klugvpbuzgftg uiuvau,gqmuzuswklgR
bko gmrf,gvagrbgqvagzuvootgbzsu,gbmvbgbmksxmgRgqvaglkgfkzugbmvlgv
ouvxsu’ag rabvliugklotgpzkfgftgkqlgmksau,gvl gfuzztgvl gquoo,gtubgqmul
bmvbgbmrlxgivfugrlbkgftgmuv ,gRgfv ugmvabugbkgqzrbugrbg kqlgbmuzu,
.uivsaugRgqvaglkbgiuzbvrlgbkgornugbroogRgivfugmkfujggVagvgfvlgbmvbgvf
ubuzlvootg.zkk rlxgknuzgftgkqlgbmksxmba,gvl giklprlugbmufgbkgftgkql
wvzbrisovzgikliuzla,gRgvfgvbgvoogmkszagvagquoogwzuwvzu gvagRgvfgunuzgorcu
bkg.u,gvl g uvbm,gqmulunuzgmugamvoogikfu,givlg.zrlxglkbmrlxgvoklxgqrbm
mrfgRg r glkbguhwuibgoklxg.upkzujggQugamkso gvoqvta,gvagluvzgvagqugivl,
.ug.kkbu gvl gawszzu ,gvl gzuv tgbkgxk,gvl ,gv.knugvoogbmrlxa,gbvcugivzu,
vbgbmvbgbrfu,gbkgmvnuglkg.sarluaagqrbmgvltgklug.sbgklu’agauop:--

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esr g.zunrgpkzbuagyvisovfszgvnk
ggggggggggggggggggggFsobv?”

ggggg[“Qmtgpkzgakgamkzbgvgorpugbuvaugkszauonuagqrbmgakgfvltgwzkyuiba?”
ggggggg--Mkzj,gK j,grrjgg16,g17j]

pkzgqugamvoogbmuzugprl gqkzcgulksxmgbkg k,gqrbmksbgvltgluu gkpgv  rbrklj
Klugfvlgikfwovrla,gfkzugbmvlgkpg uvbm,gbmvbgmugragbmuzu.tgwzunulbu gkpgv
xokzrksagnribkzt;gvlkbmuz,gbmvbgmugfsabg rug.upkzugmugmvagfvzzru gmra
 vsxmbuz,gkzgu sivbu gmragimro zul;gvgbmrz gauufagklotgbzks.ou gbmvbgmu
fsabgokaugbmugakirubtgkpgmragqrpu;gvgpkszbm,gbmugiklnuzavbrklgkpgmragakl,
vagbmugwzrlirwvogikfpkzbgvl gikliuzlgkpgmrag.urlxjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgvf,
bmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,gvbgbmragrlabvlbgrlgasimgvgikl rbrkl,gbmvbgRgvfgzuv tgbk
 raok xu,gqmulunuzgrbgamvoogwouvaugMrf,gqrbmksbgzuxzubgpkzgvltbmrlx
qmvbakunuzjggRg raulxvxugftauopgbmzksxmksbgpzkfgvoogqkzo otgzuovbrkla;
ftgouvnugragakklgbvculgkpgvoog.sbgftauopjggLunuzg r gvltgklugwzuwvzugbk
.r gv rusgbkgbmugqkzo gfkzugv.akosbuotgvl gslzuauznu ot,gvl gbkgamvcu
mvl agqrbmgvoogfvlluzgkpgrlbuzuabgrlgrb,gbmvlgRguhwuibgbkg kjggBmu
 uv uabg uvbmagvzugbmug.uab:

gggggggggggggggggggg“‘Frauz,gKgfrauz,’gvrslb,g‘kflrvgv ufrb
gggggggggggggggSlvg ruagrlpuabvgfrmrgbkbgwzvufrvgnrbvuj’”

ggggg[“‘QzubimgbmvbgRgvf,’gbmutgizt,g‘klugpvbvog vtgmvag uwzrnu gfugkp
gggggvoogyktagkpgorpuj’”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg911j]


Vl gbmug.sro uz,

gggggggggggggg“Fvlsub,”gavtagmu,g“kwuzvgrlbuzzswbv,gfrlvuesu
gggggggggggggggFszkzsfgrlxulbuaj”

ggggg[“Bmugqkzcagzufvrlgrlikfwoubu,gbmugbvoogwrllviouagkpgbmugqvooa
gggggslfv uj”--VUlur ,grnjgg88j]

Vgfvlgfsabg uarxlglkbmrlxgbmvbgqroogzuesrzugakgfsimgbrfugbkgbmu
prlramrlx,gkz,gvbgouvab,gqrbmglkgasimgwvaarklvbug uarzugbkgauugrbg.zksxmb
bkgwuzpuibrkljggQugvzug.kzlgbkgvibrkl:

ggggggggggggggg“Essfgfkzrvz,gfu rsfgakonvzgubgrlbuzgkwsaj”

ggggg[“QmulgRgamvoog ru,goubgrbg.ug krlxgbmvbgRgmv g uarxlu j”
ggggggg--Knr ,gVfkzj,grrjgg10,g36j]

Rgqkso gvoqvtagmvnugvgfvlgbkg.ug krlx,gvl ,gvagfsimgvagrlgmrfgorua,gbk
uhbul gvl gawrlgksbgbmugkppriuagkpgorpu;gvl gbmulgoubg uvbmgbvcugfu
wovlbrlxgftgiv..vxua,grl rppuzulbgbkgmrf,gvl gabroogouaagkpgftgxvz ula
lkbg.urlxgprlramu jggRgavqgklug ru,gqmk,gvbgmragovabgxvaw,gikfwovrlu gkp
lkbmrlxgakgfsimgvagbmvbg uabrltgqvagv.ksbgbkgisbgbmugbmzuv gkpgv
imzklriougmugqvagbmulgikfwrorlx,gqmulgmugqvagxkluglkgpvzbmuzgbmvlgbmu
prpbuulbmgkzgarhbuulbmgkpgkszgcrlxa:

ggggggggg“Roos grlgmragzu.saglklgv  slb:gluigbr.rguvzsf
ggggggggggyvfg uar uzrsfgzuzsfgaswuzgrlar ubgslvj”

ggggg[“Bmutg kglkbgv  ,gbmvbg trlx,gqugmvnuglkgoklxuzgvg uarzugbkgwkaauaa
gggggbmrlxaj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjgg913j]

Qugvzugbkg raimvzxugkszauonuagpzkfgbmuaugnsoxvzgvl gmszbpsogmsfkszaj
Bkgbmragwszwkaugrbgqvagbmvbgfulgprzabgvwwkrlbu gbmugwoviuagkpgauwsobszu
v ykrlrlxgbmugimszimua,gvl grlgbmugfkabgpzuesulbu gwoviuagkpgbmugirbt,gbk
viisabkf,gavtagOtiszxsa,gbmugikffklgwukwou,gqkful,gvl gimro zul,gbmvb
bmutgamkso glkbg.ugabvzbou gvbgbmugarxmbgkpgvgikzwau,gvl gbkgbmugul ,
bmvbgbmugiklbrlsvogawuibviougkpg.klua,gxzvnua,gvl gpsluzvogk.auesrua
amkso gwsbgsagrlgfrl gkpgkszgpzvrogikl rbrkl:

gggggggggggggg“Esrlgubrvfguhmrovzvzugnrzragiklnrnrvgivu u
gggggggggggggggFkagkorf,gubgfraiuzuguwsoragawuibvisovg rzv
gggggggggggggggIuzbvlbsfgpuzzk,gavuwugubgaswuzgrwavgiv ulbsf
gggggggggggggggWkisov,gzuawuzaraglklgwvzikgavlxsrlugfularaj”

ggggg[“Rbgqvagpkzfuzotgbmugisabkfgbkgulornulg.vlesubagqrbmgaovsxmbuz,gvl 
gggggbkgikf.rlugqrbmgbmugzuwvabgbmug rzugawuibviougkpgfulgiklbul rlxgqrbm
gggggbmugaqkz ,gbmug trlxgrlgfvltgivauagpvoorlxgswklgbmugiswa,gvl 
gggggiknuzrlxgbmugbv.ouagqrbmg.okk j”--ArorsagRbvorisa,ghrjg51j]

Vl gvagbmugUxtwbrvlagvpbuzgbmurzgpuvabagquzugqklbgbkgwzuaulbgbmugikfwvlt
qrbmgvgxzuvbgrfvxugkpg uvbm,g.tgklugbmvbgizru gksbgbkgbmuf,g“ zrlcgvl g.u
fuzzt,gpkzgasimgamvobgbmksg.ugqmulgbmksgvzbg uv ”;gakgrbgragftgisabkfgbk
mvnug uvbmglkbgklotgrlgftgrfvxrlvbrkl,g.sbgiklbrlsvootgrlgftgfksbmj
LurbmuzgragbmuzugvltbmrlxgkpgqmrimgRgvfgakgrlesrarbrnu,gvl g uorxmbgbk
rlpkzfgftauop,gvagbmugfvlluzgkpgful’ag uvbma,gbmurzgqkz a,gokkca,gvl 
.uvzrlx;glkzgvltgwoviuagrlgmrabkztgRgvfgakgrlbulbgswkl;gvl grbgra
fvlrpuabgulksxm,g.tgftgizkq rlxgrlguhvfwouagkpgbmragcrl ,gbmvbgRgmvnugv
wvzbrisovzgpvlitgpkzgbmvbgas.yuibjggRpgRgquzugvgqzrbuzgkpg.kkca,gRgqkso 
ikfwrougvgzuxrabuz,gqrbmgvgikffulb,gkpgbmugnvzrksag uvbmagkpgful:gmugqmk
amkso gbuvimgfulgbkg rugqkso gvbgbmugavfugbrfugbuvimgbmufgbkgornuj
 rivzimsagfv ugklu,gbkgqmrimgmugxvnugbmvbgbrbou;g.sbgrbgqvag uarxlu gpkz
vlkbmuzgvl gouaagwzkprbv.ougul j

Wuzv nulbszu,gakfugklugfvtgk.yuib,gbmvbgbmugwvrlgvl gbuzzkzgkpg trlxgak
rlprlrbuotguhiuu gvoogfvlluzgkpgrfvxrlvbrkl,gbmvbgbmug.uabgpuliuzgqroog.u
esrbugksbgkpgmragwovtgqmulgrbgikfuagbkgbmugwsamjggOubgbmufgavtgqmvbgbmut
qroo:gbkgwzufu rbvbugrag ks.bouaagvgnuztgxzuvbgv nvlbvxu;gvl g.uar ua,gra
rbglkbmrlxgbkgxkgakgpvz,gvbgouvab,gqrbmksbg rabsz.vliugkzgvobuzvbrkl?
Fkzuknuz,gLvbszugmuzauopgvaarabagvl gulikszvxuagsa:grpgbmug uvbmg.u
as  ulgvl gnrkoulb,gqugmvnuglkbgouraszugbkgpuvz;grpgkbmuzqrau,gRgwuziurnu
bmvbgvagRgulxvxugpszbmuzgrlgftg rauvau,gRglvbszvootgulbuzgrlbkgvgiuzbvrl
okvbmrlxgvl g ra vrlgkpgorpujggRgprl gRgmvnugfsimgfkzugv kgbkg rxuabgbmra
zuakosbrklgkpg trlx,gqmulgRgvfgquoogrlgmuvobm,gbmvlgqmulgovlxsramrlxgkpgv
punuz;gvl g.tgmkqgfsimgRgmvnugouaagbkg kgqrbmgbmugikffk rbruagkpgorpu,
.tgzuvaklgbmvbgRg.uxrlgbkgokaugbmugsaugvl gwouvaszugkpgbmuf,g.tgakgfsimgR
okkcgswklg uvbmgqrbmgouaagbuzzkzjggQmrimgfvcuagfugmkwu,gbmvbgbmugpszbmuz
Rgzufknugpzkfgbmugprzab,gvl gbmugluvzuzgRgvwwzkvimgbkgbmugovbbuz,gRgamvoo
bmugfkzuguvarotguhimvlxugbmugklugpkzgbmugkbmuzjggVl ,gvagRgmvnu
uhwuzruliu grlgkbmuzgkiiszzuliua,gbmvb,gvagIvuavzgavta,gbmrlxagkpbul
vwwuvzgxzuvbuzgbkgsagvbg rabvliugbmvlgluvzgvbgmvl ,gRgmvnugpksl ,gbmvb
.urlxgquoo,gRgmvnugmv gfvov ruagrlgfsimgxzuvbuzgmkzzkzgbmvlgqmulgzuvoot
vpporibu gqrbmgbmufjggBmugnrxkszgqmuzurlgRglkqgvf,gbmugimuuzpsoluaagvl 
 uorxmbgqmuzurlgRglkqgornu,gfvcugbmugiklbzvztguabvbugvwwuvzgrlgakgxzuvbgv
 rawzkwkzbrklgbkgftgwzuaulbgikl rbrkl,gbmvb,g.tgrfvxrlvbrkl,gRgfvxlrpt
bmkaugrliklnulruliuag.tgklu-mvop,gvl gvwwzumul gbmufgbkg.ugfsimgfkzu
bzks.ouakfu,gbmvlgRgprl gbmufgzuvootgbkg.u,gqmulgbmutgorugbmugfkabgmuvnt
swklgfu;gRgmkwugbkgprl g uvbmgbmugavfuj

Oubgsag.sbgk.auznugrlgbmugkz rlvztgimvlxuagvl g uiorlvbrklagqug vrot
asppuz,gmkqglvbszug uwzrnuagsagkpgbmugorxmbgvl gaulaugkpgkszg.k rot
 uivtjggQmvbgzufvrlagbkgvlgko gfvlgkpgbmugnrxkszgkpgmragtksbmgvl g.ubbuz
 vta?

ggggggggggggggg“Mus!gaulr.sagnrbvugwkzbrkgesvlbvgfvlubj”

ggggg[“Vova,gbkgko gfulgqmvbgwkzbrklgkpgorpugzufvrla!”---Fvhrfrvl,gnuo
gggggWaus k-Xvoosa,grjg16j]

Ivuavz,gbkgvlgko gquvbmuz-.uvbulgako ruzgkpgmragxsvz a,gqmkgivfugbkgvac
mrfgouvnugbmvbgmugfrxmbgcroogmrfauop,gbvcrlxglkbriugkpgmragqrbmuzu g.k t
vl g uizuwrbgfkbrkl,gwouvavlbotgvlaquzu ,g“Bmksgpvliruab,gbmul,gbmvbgbmks
vzbgtubgvornuj”--[Auluiv,gUwj,g77j]--Amkso gvgfvlgpvoogrlbkgbmra
ikl rbrklgklgbmugas  ul,gRg kglkbgbmrlcgmsfvlrbtgivwv.ougkpgul szrlxgasim
vgimvlxu:g.sbglvbszu,gouv rlxgsag.tgbmugmvl ,gvlguvatgvl ,gvagrbgquzu,gvl
rlaular.ougwviu,gabuwg.tgabuwgikl sibagsagbkgbmvbgfrauzv.ougabvbu,gvl g.t
bmvbgfuvlagfvcuagrbgpvfrorvzgbkgsa,gakgbmvbgqugvzugrlaular.ougkpgbmu
abzkcugqmulgkszgtksbmg ruagrlgsa,gbmksxmgrbg.ugzuvootgvgmvz uzg uvbmgbmvl
bmugprlvog raakosbrklgkpgvgovlxsramrlxg.k t,gbmvlgbmug uvbmgkpgko gvxu;
pkzvafsimgvagbmugpvoograglkbgakgxzuvbgpzkfgvlgsluvatg.urlxgbkglklugvb
voo,gvagrbgragpzkfgvgawzrxmbotgvl gpokszramrlxg.urlxgbkgklugbmvbgra
bzks.ouakfugvl gwvrlpsojggBmug.k t,g.ulbgvl g.kqu ,gmvagouaagpkziugbk
aswwkzbgvg.sz ul;gvl grbgragbmugavfugqrbmgbmugakso,gvl gbmuzupkzugrbgra,
bmvbgqugvzugbkgzvraugmuzgswgprzfgvl guzuibgvxvrlabgbmugwkquzgkpgbmra
v nuzavztjggPkz,gvagrbgragrfwkaar.ougamugamkso gunuzg.ugvbgzuab,gqmroab
amugabvl agrlgpuvzgkpgrb;gak,grpgamugkliugivlgvaaszugmuzauop,gamugfvt
.kvabg(qmrimgragvgbmrlxgvagrbgquzugaszwvaarlxgmsfvlgikl rbrkl)gbmvbgrbgra
rfwkaar.ougbmvbg raesrub,gvlhrubt,gkzgpuvz,gkzgvltgkbmuzg rabsz.vliu,
amkso grlmv.rbgkzgmvnugvltgwoviugrlgmuz:

gggggggggggggg“LklgnsolsagrlabvlbagBtzvllr
gggggggggggggggFulbmvgiv rgakor v,gluesugVsabuz
ggggggggggggggg shgrlesrubrgbsz.r sagV zrvu,
gggggggggggggggLuigpsofrlvlbragfvxlvgYknragfvlsaj”

ggggg[“Lkbgbmugfulvirlxgokkcgkpgvgbtzvlbgamvcuagmuzgquoo-aubbou gakso,
ggggglkzgbsz.soulbgVsabuz,gbmugwzrliugkpgbmugabkzftgV zrvbri,glkzgtubgbmu
gggggabzklxgmvl gkpgbmsl uzrlxgYknu,gasimgvgbufwuzgfknuaj”
gggggg--Mkzj,gK j,grrrjgg3,g3j]

Amugragbmulg.uikfugaknuzurxlgkpgvoogmuzgosabagvl gwvaarkla,gfrabzuaagkp
luiuaarbt,gamvfu,gwknuzbt,gvl gvoogbmugkbmuzgrlyszruagkpgpkzbslujggOub
sa,gbmuzupkzu,gvagfvltgkpgsagvagivl,gxubgbmragv nvlbvxu;g‘bragbmugbzsu
vl gaknuzurxlgor.uzbtgmuzugklguvzbm,gbmvbgpkzbrpruagsagqmuzuqrbmvogbk
 uptgnrkouliugvl grlysabriu,gvl gbkgiklbuflgwzraklagvl gimvrla:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgfvlriragub
gggggggggggggggIkfwu r.sagavunkgbugas.gisabk ugbulu.kj
gggggggggggggggRwaug usa,garfsogvbesugnkovf,gfugakonubjggKwrlkz,
gggggggggggggggMkigaulbrb;gfkzrvz;gfkzagsobrfvgorluvgzuzsfguabj”

gggggggggg[“Rgqroogcuuwgbmuugrlgpubbuzagvl gimvrla,grlgisabk tgkpgv
ggggggggggavnvxugcuuwuzj--Vgxk gqroogqmulgRgvacgMrf,gaubgfugpzuuj
ggggggggggBmragxk gRgbmrlcgrag uvbmjgg uvbmgragbmugbuzfgkpgvoogbmrlxaj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzj,gUwj,grjgg16,g76j]

Kszgnuztgzuorxrklgrbauopgmvaglkgaszuzgmsfvlgpksl vbrklgbmvlgbmugiklbufwb
kpgorpujggLkbgklotgbmugvzxsfulbgkpgzuvaklgrlnrbuagsagbkgrb--pkzgqmt
amkso gqugpuvzgbkgokaugvgbmrlx,gqmrimg.urlxgokab,givllkbg.ugovfulbu ?
--.sb,gvoak,gauurlxgqugvzugbmzuvbulu g.tgakgfvltgakzbagkpg uvbm,gragrbglkb
rlprlrbuotgqkzaugubuzlvootgbkgpuvzgbmufgvoo,gbmvlgkliugbkgsl uzxkgklugkp
bmuf?ggVl gqmvbgfvbbuzagrb,gqmulgrbgamvoogmvwwul,garliugrbgragrlunrbv.ou?
Bkgmrfgbmvbgbko gAkizvbua,g“Bmugbmrzbtgbtzvlbagmvnugaulbuliu gbmuugbk
 uvbm”;g“Vl glvbszugbmuf,”gavr gmuj--[Akizvbuagqvaglkbgikl uflu gbkg uvbm
.tgbmugbmrzbtgbtzvlba,g.sbg.tgbmugVbmulrvlaj- rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grrj35j]--
Qmvbgvgzr risoksagbmrlxgrbgragbkgbzks.ougkszauonuagv.ksbgbvcrlxgbmugklot
abuwgbmvbgragbkg uornuzgsagpzkfgvoogbzks.ou!ggVagkszg.rzbmg.zksxmbgsagbmu
.rzbmgkpgvoogbmrlxa,gakgrlgkszg uvbmgragbmug uvbmgkpgvoogbmrlxagrlios u j
Vl gbmuzupkzugbkgovfulbgbmvbgqugamvooglkbg.ugvornugvgmsl zu gtuvzagmuliu,
ragbmugavfugpkootgvagbkg.ugakzztgqugquzuglkbgvornugvgmsl zu gtuvzagvxkj
 uvbmgragbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgvlkbmuzgorpujggAkg r gqugquuw,gvl gakgfsimgrb
ikabgsagbkgulbuzgrlbkgbmra,gvl gakg r gqugwsbgkppgkszgpkzfuzgnurogrl
ulbuzrlxgrlbkgrbjggLkbmrlxgivlg.ugvgxzrunvliugbmvbgrag.sbgkliujggRagrb
zuvaklv.ougakgoklxgbkgpuvzgvgbmrlxgbmvbgqroogakgakklg.ug uawvbimu ?
Oklxgorpu,gvl gamkzb,gvzug.tg uvbmgfv ugvoogklu;gpkzgbmuzugraglkgoklx,
lkzgamkzb,gbkgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkgfkzujggVzrabkbougbuooagsagbmvbgbmuzugvzu
iuzbvrlgorbboug.uvabagswklgbmug.vlcagkpgbmugzrnuzgMtwvlra,gbmvbglunuz
ornugv.knugvg vt:gbmutgqmrimg rugvbgurxmbgkpgbmugiokicgrlgbmugfkzlrlx,
 rugrlgbmurzgtksbm,gvl gbmkaugbmvbg rugvbgprnugrlgbmugunulrlx,grlgbmurz
 uizuwrbs u:gqmrimgkpgsagqkso glkbgovsxmgbkgauugbmragfkfulbgkp
iklbrlsvliugwsbgrlbkgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgquvogkzgqku?ggBmugfkabgvl gbmu
ouvab,gkpgksza,grlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgubuzlrbt,gkzgtubgqrbmgbmug szvbrklgkp
fkslbvrla,gzrnuza,gabvza,gbzuua,gvl gunulgkpgakfugvlrfvoa,graglkgouaa
zr risoksaj--[gAuluiv,gIklakojgv gFvzirvf,gijg20j]

.sbglvbszugikfwuoagsagbkgrbjgg“Xkgksbgkpgbmragqkzo ,”gavtagamu,g“vagtks
ulbuzu grlbkgrb;gbmugavfugwvaagtksgfv ugpzkfg uvbmgbkgorpu,gqrbmksb
wvaarklgkzgpuvz,gbmugavfu,gvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz,gzuwuvbgpzkfgorpugbk
 uvbmjggTkszg uvbmgragvgwvzbgkpgbmugkz uzgkpgbmugslrnuzau,g‘bragvgwvzbgkp
bmugorpugkpgbmugqkzo j

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rlbuzgaugfkzbvouagfsbsvgnrnslb
ggggggggggggggggggggjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
ggggggggggggggggggggUb,gesvargiszakzua,gnrbvrgovfwv vgbzv slbj”

ggggg[“Fkzbvoa,gvfklxabgbmufauonua,gornug.tgbszla,gvl ,gorcugbmugzslluza
gggggrlgbmugxvfua,gxrnugswgbmugovfw,gqmulgbmutgmvnugqklgbmugzviu,gbkgbmu
gggggluhbgikfuzj--”gOsizubrsa,grrjgg75,g78j]

“AmvoogRguhimvlxugpkzgtksgbmrag.uvsbrpsogiklbuhbszugkpgbmrlxa?gg‘Bragbmu
ikl rbrklgkpgtkszgizuvbrkl;g uvbmgragvgwvzbgkpgtks,gvl gqmroabgtks
ul uvnkszgbkgunv ugrb,gtksgunv ugtkszauonuajggBmragnuztg.urlxgkpgtksza
bmvbgtksglkqgulyktgraguesvootg rnr u g.ubqrhbgorpugvl g uvbmjggBmug vtgkp
tkszg.rzbmgragklug vt’agv nvliugbkqvz agbmugxzvnu:

gggggggggg“Wzrfv,geshgnrbvfg u rb,gmkzvgivzwarbj”

ggggg[“Bmugprzabgmkszgbmvbgxvnugsagorpugbkkcgvqvtgvoakgvlgmkszj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gMuzjggPszj,g3gImkzjgg874j]

gggggggggg“Lvaiulbuagfkzrfsz,gprlraesugv.gkzrxrlugwul ubj”

ggggg[“Vagqugvzug.kzlgqug ru,gvl gbmugul gikffuliuagqrbmgbmug.uxrllrlxj”
ggggggg--Fvlrorsa,gVabj,grnjgg16j]

“Voogbmugqmkougbrfugtksgornu,gtksgwszokrlgpzkfgorpugvl gornugvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgorpugrbauopjggBmugwuzwubsvogqkzcgkpgtkszgorpugrag.sbgbkgovt
bmugpksl vbrklgkpg uvbmjggTksgvzugrlg uvbm,gqmroabgtksgvzugrlgorpu,
.uivsaugtksgabroogvzugvpbuzg uvbm,gqmulgtksgvzuglkgfkzugvornu;gkz,grpgtks
mv gzvbmuzgmvnugrbgak,gtksgvzug uv gvpbuzgorpu,g.sbg trlxgvoogbmugqmrou
tksgornu;gvl g uvbmgmvl ouagbmug trlxgfsimgfkzugzs uotgbmvlgbmug uv ,gvl 
fkzugaular.otgvl guaaulbrvootjggRpgtksgmvnugfv ugtkszgwzkprbgkpgorpu,gtks
mvnugmv gulksxmgkpgrb;gxkgtkszgqvtgavbrapru j

ggggggggggggggg“Iszglklgsbgwoulsagnrbv;giklnrnvgzuiu ra?”

ggggg[“Qmtglkbg uwvzbgpzkfgorpugvagvgavbu gxsuabgpzkfgvgpuvab?
ggggg“Osizubrsa,grrrjgg951j]

“Rpgtksgmvnuglkbgclkqlgmkqgbkgfvcugbmug.uabgsaugkpgrb,grpgrbgqva
slwzkprbv.ougbkgtks,gqmvbgluu gtksgivzugbkgokaugrb,gbkgqmvbgul gqkso gtks
 uarzugoklxuzgbkgcuuwgrb?

ggggggggggggggg“‘Iszgvfworsagv  uzugesvuzra,
ggggggggggZszasfgesk gwuzuvbgfvou,gubgrlxzvbsfgkiir vbgkflu?’

ggggg[“Qmtgauucgbkgv  goklxuzgorpu,gfuzuotgbkgzuluqgroo-awulbgbrfu,gvl 
ggggg.ugvxvrlgbkzfulbu ?”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg914j]

“Orpugrlgrbauopgraglurbmuzgxkk glkzgunro;grbgragbmugaiulugkpgxkk gkzgunro
vagtksgfvcugrbj’gVl ,grpgtksgmvnugornu gvg vt,gtksgmvnugauulgvoo:gklug vt
raguesvogvl gorcugbkgvoogkbmuzg vtajggBmuzugraglkgkbmuzgorxmb,glkgkbmuz
amv u;gbmragnuztgasl,gbmragfkkl,gbmuaugnuztgabvza,gbmragnuztgkz uzgvl 
 rawkarbrklgkpgbmrlxa,gragbmugavfugtkszgvliuabkzagulyktu ,gvl gbmvbgamvoo
voakgulbuzbvrlgtkszgwkabuzrbt:

ggggggggggggggg“‘Lklgvorsfgnr uzugwvbzua,gvorsfnugluwkbua
gggggggggggggggVawrirulbj’

ggggg[“Tkszgxzvl arzuagavqglkgkbmuzgbmrlx;glkzgqroogtkszgwkabuzrbtj”
gggggg--Fvlrorsa,grjg529j]

“Vl ,gikfugbmugqkzabgbmvbgivlgikfu,gbmug rabzr.sbrklgvl gnvzrubtgkpgvoo
bmugvibagkpgftgikfu tgvzugwuzpkzfu grlgvgtuvzjggRpgtksgmvnugk.auznu gbmu
zunkosbrklgkpgftgpkszgauvakla,gbmutgikfwzumul gbmugrlpvlit,gbmugtksbm,
bmugnrzrorbt,gvl gbmugko gvxugkpgbmugqkzo :gbmugtuvzgmvagwovtu gmragwvzb,
vl gclkqaglkgkbmuzgvzbg.sbgbkg.uxrlgvxvrl;grbgqroogvoqvtag.ugbmugavfu
bmrlx:

ggggggggggggggg“‘Nuzavfszgr.r uf,gvbesugrlasfsagsaesuj’

ggggg[“Qugvzugbszlrlxgrlgbmugavfugirziou,gunuzgbmuzurlgiklprlu j”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg1093j]

ggggggggggggggg“‘Vbesugrlgaugasvgwuzgnuabrxrvgnkonrbszgvllsaj’

ggggg[“Bmugtuvzgragunuzgbszlrlxgvzksl grlgbmugavfugpkkbabuwaj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrjg402j]

“Rgvfglkbgwzuwvzu gbkgizuvbugpkzgtksgvltgluqgzuizuvbrkla:

ggggggggggggg“‘Lvfgbr.rgwzhbuzuvgesk gfvimrluz,grlnulrvfesu
gggggggggggggggEsk gwoviuvb,glrmroguab;guv ufgaslbgkflrvgaufwuzj’

ggggg[“Rgivlg unrau,glkzgprl gvltbmrlxguoaugbkgwouvaugtks:g‘bragbmugavfu
gggggbmrlxgknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrlj”--Osizubrsagrrrjg957]

“Xrnugwoviugbkgkbmuza,gvagkbmuzagmvnugxrnulgwoviugbkgtksjggUesvorbtgra
bmugaksogkpguesrbtjggQmkgivlgikfwovrlgkpg.urlxgikfwzumul u grlgbmugavfu
 uabrlt,gqmuzurlgvoogvzugrlnkonu ?gg.uar ua,gornugvagoklxgvagtksgivl,gtks
amvoog.tgbmvbglkbmrlxgamkzbulgbmugawviugtksgvzugbkg.ug uv ;g‘bragvoogbk
lkgwszwkau;gtksgamvoog.ugunuztgqmrbgvagoklxgrlgbmugikl rbrklgtksgakgfsim
puvz,gvagrpgtksgmv g ru gvbglszau:

ggggggggggggggg“‘Oriubgeskbgnragnrnul kgnrliuzugauiov,
ggggggggggFkzagvubuzlvgbvfulglrmrokfrlsagroovgfvlu.rbj’

ggggg[“Ornugbzrsfwmrlxgknuzgvagfvltgvxuagvagtksgqroo,g uvbmgabroogqroo
gggggzufvrlgubuzlvoj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg1103]

“Vl gtubgRgqroogwoviugtksgrlgasimgvgikl rbrklgvagtksgamvoogmvnuglkgzuvakl
bkg.ug rawouvau j

gggggggggg“‘Rlgnuzvgluairaglsoosfgpkzugfkzbugvorsfgbu,
ggggggggggEsrgwkaarbgnrnsagbr.rgbkgosxuzugwuzufwbsf,
ggggggggggAbvlaesugyviulbufj’

ggggg[“Clkqgtksglkbgbmvb,gqmulg uv ,gbmuzugivlg.uglkgkbmuzgornrlxgauopgbk
gggggovfulbgtksg uv ,gabvl rlxgklgtkszgxzvnuj”--R ufj,gr.r j,g898j]

“Lkzgamvoogtksgakgfsimgvagqramgpkzgbmugorpugtksgvzugakgikliuzlu gv.ksb:

gggggggggg“‘Luigar.rgulrfgesraesvfgbsfgaugnrbvfesugzuesrzrbj
ggggggggggjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
gggggggggg“‘Luig uar uzrsfglkabzrglkagvpprirbgsoosfj’

“ uvbmgragouaagbkg.ugpuvzu gbmvlglkbmrlx,grpgbmuzugikso g.ugvltbmrlxgouaa
bmvlglkbmrlxj

gggggggg“‘Fsobkgjggjggjggfkzbufgfrlsagv glkaguaaugwsbvl rsf,
ggggggggggArgfrlsaguaaugwkbuab,gesvfgesk glrmroguaaugnr ufsaj’

“Lurbmuzgivlgrbgvltgqvtgikliuzlgtks,gqmubmuzgtksgvzugornrlxgkzg uv :
ornrlx,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgtksgvzugabroogrlg.urlx;g uv ,g.uivsaugtksgvzuglk
fkzujggFkzuknuz,glkgklug ruag.upkzugmragmksz:gbmugbrfugtksgouvnug.umrl 
qvaglkgfkzugtkszagbmvlgbmvbgqvagovwau gvl gxklug.upkzugtksgivfugrlbkgbmu
qkzo ;glkzg kuagrbgvltgfkzugikliuzlgtksj

ggggggggg“‘Zuawriugulrf,gesvfglrogv glkagvlbuvibvgnubsabva
ggggggggggBufwkzragvubuzlrgpsuzrbj’

ggggg[“Iklar uzgmkqgvaglkbmrlxgbkgsagragbmugko gvxugkpgbrfuagwvabj”
gggggg--Osizubrsagrrrjg985]

Qmuzunuzgtkszgorpugul a,grbgragvoogbmuzujggBmugsbrorbtgkpgornrlxgiklaraba
lkbgrlgbmugoulxbmgkpg vta,g.sbgrlgbmugsaugkpgbrfu;gvgfvlgfvtgmvnugornu 
oklx,gvl gtubgornu g.sbgvgorbboujggFvcugsaugkpgbrfugqmrougrbgragwzuaulb
qrbmgtksjggRbg uwul agswklgtkszgqroo,gvl glkbgswklgbmuglsf.uzgkpg vta,gbk
mvnugvgaspprirulbgoulxbmgkpgorpujggRagrbgwkaar.ougtksgivlgrfvxrluglunuz
bkgvzzrnugvbgbmugwoviugbkqvz agqmrimgtksgvzugiklbrlsvootgxkrlx?gvl gtub
bmuzugraglkgykszlutg.sbgmvbmgrbagul jggVl ,grpgikfwvltgqroogfvcugrbgfkzu
wouvavlbgkzgfkzuguvatgbkgtks,g kuaglkbgvoogbmugqkzo gxkgbmugauop-avfu
qvt?

gggggggggg“‘Kflrvgbu,gnrbvgwuzpslibv,gauesulbszj’

gggggggggg[“Voogbmrlxa,gbmul,gorpugknuz,gfsabgpkookqgbmuuj”
ggggggggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjgg981j]

“ kuaglkbgvoogbmugqkzo g vliugbmugavfug.zvqogbmvbgtksg k?ggRagbmuzu
vltbmrlxgbmvbg kuaglkbgxzkqgko ,gvagquoogvagtks?ggVgbmksavl gful,gv
bmksavl gvlrfvoa,gvgbmksavl gkbmuzgizuvbszua,g rugvbgbmugavfugfkfulbgbmvb
tksg ru:

gggggggg“‘Lvfglkhglsoovg ruf,gluesuglkibufgvszkzvgauessbvguab,
ggggggggggEsvuglklgvs ruzrbgfrabkagnvxrbr.sagvuxzra
ggggggggggWokzvbsa,gfkzbragikfrbuagubgpsluzragvbzrj’

ggggg[“Lkglrxmbgmvagpkookqu g vt,glkg vtgmvagpkookqu glrxmb,grlgqmrim
gggggbmuzugmvaglkbg.uulgmuvz gak.agvl gakzzkqrlxgizrua,gbmugikfwvlrklagkp
ggggg uvbmgvl gpsluzvoaj”--Osizubrsa,gnjgg579j]

“Bkgqmvbgul gamkso gtksgul uvnkszgbkg zvqg.vic,grpgbmuzug.uglk
wkaar.rorbtgbkgunv ugrb?gtksgmvnugauulguhvfwouagulksxmgkpgbmkaugqmkgmvnu
.uulgquoogwouvau gbkg ru,gvagbmuzu.tg uornuzu gpzkfgmuvntgfrauzrua;g.sb
mvnugtksgunuzgpksl gvltgqmkgmvnug.uulg raavbrapru gqrbmg trlx?ggRbgfsab,
bmuzupkzu,gluu ag.ugnuztgpkkoramgbkgikl uflgvgbmrlxgtksgmvnuglurbmuz
uhwuzrfulbu grlgtkszgkqlgwuzakl,glkzg.tgbmvbgkpgvltgkbmuzjggQmtg kabgbmks
ikfwovrlgkpgfugvl gkpg uabrlt?gg kgqug kgbmuugvltgqzklx?ggRagrbgpkzgbmuu
bkgxknuzlgsa,gkzgpkzgsagbkgxknuzlgbmuu?ggBmksxm,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmtgvxu
fvtglkbg.ugviikfworamu ,gtubgbmtgorpugra:gvgfvlgkpgokqgabvbszugragvagfsim
vgfvlgvagvgxrvlb;glurbmuzgfulglkzgbmurzgornuagvzugfuvaszu g.tgbmuguooj
Imrzklgzupsau gbkg.ugrffkzbvo,gqmulgmugqvagviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmugikl rbrkla
sl uzgqmrimgmugqvagbkgulyktgrb,g.tgbmugxk gkpgbrfugrbauopgvl grba
 szvbrkl,gmragpvbmuzgAvbszljgg kg.sbgauzrksaotgiklar uzgmkqgfsimgfkzu
rlaswwkzbv.ougvl gwvrlpsogvlgrffkzbvogorpugqkso g.ugbkgfvlgbmvlgqmvbgR
mvnugvozuv tgxrnulgmrfjggRpgtksgmv glkbg uvbm,gtksgqkso gubuzlvootgiszau
fugpkzgmvnrlxg uwzrnu gtksgkpgrb;gRgmvnugfrhu gvgorbboug.rbbuzluaagqrbm
rb,gbkgbmugul ,gbmvbgauurlxgkpgqmvbgiklnulruliugrbgra,gtksgfrxmbglkbgbkk
xzuu rotgvl grl raizuubotgauucgvl guf.zviugrb:gvl gbmvbgtksgfrxmbg.ugak
uabv.oramu grlgbmragfk uzvbrkl,gvaglurbmuzgbkglvsauvbugorpu,glkzgmvnugvlt
vlbrwvbmtgpkzg trlx,gqmrimgRgmvnug uizuu gtksgamvoogkliug k,gRgmvnu
bufwuzu gbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzg.ubqrhbgwouvaszugvl gwvrljggRbgqvagRgbmvb
bvsxmbgBmvoua,gbmugfkabgufrlulbgkpgtkszgavxua,gbmvbgbkgornugvl gbkg ru
quzugrl rppuzulb;gqmrimgfv ugmrf,gnuztgqrauot,gvlaquzgmrf,g‘Qmtgbmulgmu
 r glkbg ru?’gg‘.uivsau,’gavr gmu,g‘rbgragrl rppuzulbj’--[ rkxulua
Ovuzbrsa,grjgg35j]--Qvbuz,guvzbm,gvrz,gvl gprzu,gvl gbmugkbmuzgwvzbagkp
bmragizuvbrklgkpgfrlu,gvzuglkgfkzugrlabzsfulbagkpgbmtgorpugbmvlgbmutgvzu
kpgbmtg uvbmjggQmtg kabgbmksgpuvzgbmtgovabg vt?grbgiklbzr.sbuaglkgfkzugbk
bmtg raakosbrkl,gbmvlgunuztgklugkpgbmugzuab:gbmugovabgabuwgraglkbgbmu
ivsaugkpgovaarbs u:grbg kuaglkbgiklpuaagrbjggUnuztg vtgbzvnuoagbkqvz a
 uvbm;gbmugovabgklotgvzzrnuagvbgrbj”ggBmuaugvzugbmugxkk gouaaklagksz
fkbmuzgLvbszugbuvimuaj

Rgmvnugkpbulgiklar uzu gqrbmgftauopgqmuliugrbgamkso gwzkiuu ,gbmvbgrlgqvz
bmugrfvxugkpg uvbm,gqmubmuzgqugokkcgswklgrbgrlgkszauonuagkzgrlgkbmuza,
amkso ,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gvwwuvzgouaag zuv psogbmvlgvbgmkfugrlgkszgkql
mksauag(pkzgrpgrbgquzuglkbgak,grbgqkso g.ugvlgvzftgkpg kibkzagvl gqmrlrlx
frocakwa),gvl gbmvbg.urlxgabroogrlgvoogwoviuagbmugavfu,gbmuzugamkso g.u,
lkbqrbmabvl rlx,gfsimgfkzugvaaszvliugrlgwuvavlbagvl gbmugfuvluzgakzbgkp
wukwou,gbmvlgrlgkbmuzagkpg.ubbuzgesvorbtjggRg.uorunu,grlgbzsbm,gbmvbgrb
ragbmkaugbuzzr.ougiuzufklruagvl gwzuwvzvbrklagqmuzuqrbmgqugaubgrbgksb,
bmvbgfkzugbuzzrptgsagbmvlgbmugbmrlxgrbauop;gvgluq,gesrbugiklbzvztgqvtgkp
ornrlx;gbmugizruagkpgfkbmuza,gqrnua,gvl gimro zul;gbmugnrarbagkp
vabksl u gvl gvpporibu gpzrul a;gbmugvbbul vliugkpgwvougvl g.os..uzrlx
auznvlba;gvg vzcgzkkf,gaubgzksl gqrbmg.szlrlxgbvwuza;gkszg.u agulnrzklu 
qrbmgwmtarirvlagvl g rnrlua;grlgasf,glkbmrlxg.sbgxmkaborluaagvl gmkzzkz
zksl gv.ksbgsa;gqugauufg uv gvl g.szru gvozuv tjggImro zulgvzugvpzvr 
unulgkpgbmkaugbmutgvzug.uabgviesvrlbu gqrbm,gqmulg raxsrau grlgvgnrakz;
vl gakg‘bragqrbmgsa;gbmugnrakzgfsabg.ugzufknu gvagquoogpzkfgbmrlxagva
pzkfgwuzakla,gbmvbg.urlxgbvculgvqvt,gqugamvoogprl glkbmrlxgsl uzluvbmg.sb
bmugnuztgavfug uvbmgbmvbgvgfuvlgauznvlbgkzgvgwkkzgimvf.uzfvr g ru gvg vt
kzgbqkgvxk,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgvwwzumularkljggMvwwtgragbmug uvbmgbmvb
 uwzrnuagsagkpgouraszugpkzgwzuwvzrlxgasimgiuzufklrvoaj




IMVWBUZgHH

KPgBMUgPKZIUgKPgRFVXRLVBRKL

gggggggggggg“Pkzbragrfvxrlvbrkgxuluzvbgivasf,”gavtgbmugaimkkofulj

ggggg[“Vgabzklxgrfvxrlvbrklg.uxubagbmugunulbgrbauopj”--VhrkfjgAimkovabj]

Rgvfgklugkpgbmkaugqmkgvzugfkabgaular.ougkpgbmugwkquzgkpgrfvxrlvbrkl:
unuztgklugragykabou g.tgrb,g.sbgakfugvzugknuzbmzkqlg.tgrbjggRbgmvagvgnuzt
wruzirlxgrfwzuaarklgswklgfu;gvl gRgfvcugrbgftg.sarluaagbkgvnkr ,gqvlbrlx
pkziugbkgzuarabgrbjggRgikso gornug.tgbmugakougmuowgkpgmuvobmpsogvl gykoot
ikfwvlt:gbmugnuztgarxmbgkpgvlkbmuz’agwvrlgfvbuzrvootgwvrlagfu,gvl gR
kpbulgsaszwgbmugaulavbrklagkpgvlkbmuzgwuzakljggVgwuzwubsvogiksxmgrl
vlkbmuzgbricouagftgoslxagvl gbmzkvbjggRgfkzugslqroorlxotgnrarbgbmugaric
rlgqmkfg.tgoknugvl g sbtgRgvfgrlbuzuabu ,gbmvlgbmkaugRgivzuglkbgpkz,gbk
qmkfgRgouaagokkcjggRgbvcugwkaauaarklgkpgbmug rauvaugRgvfgikliuzlu gvb,
vl gbvcugrbgbkgftauopjggRg kglkbgvbgvoogqkl uzgbmvbgpvlitgamkso gxrnu
punuzagvl gakfubrfuagcroogasimgvagvookqgrbgbkkgfsimgaikwu,gvl gvzugbkk
qroorlxgbkgulbuzbvrlgrbjggArfklgBmkfvagqvagvgxzuvbgwmtarirvlgkpgmragbrfu:
Rgzufuf.uz,gbmvbgmvwwulrlxgklug vtgvbgBksoksaugbkgfuubgmrfgvbgvgzrimgko 
puookq’agmksau,gqmkgqvagbzks.ou gqrbmgquvcgoslxa,gvl g raikszarlxgqrbm
bmugwvbrulbgv.ksbgbmugfubmk gkpgmragiszu,gmugbko gmrf,gbmvbgklugbmrlx
qmrimgqkso g.ugnuztgikl sirnugbkgrb,gqvagbkgxrnugfugasimgkiivarklgbkg.u
wouvau gqrbmgmragikfwvlt,gbmvbgRgfrxmbgikfugkpbulgbkgauugmrf,g.tgqmrim
fuvla,gvl g.tgprhrlxgmragutuagswklgbmugpzuamluaagkpgftgikfwouhrkl,gvl 
mragrfvxrlvbrklgswklgbmugawzrxmborluaagvl gnrxkszgbmvbgxokqu grlgft
tksbm,gvl gwkaauaarlxgvoogmragaulauagqrbmgbmugpokszramrlxgvxugqmuzurlgR
bmulgqva,gmragmv.rbgkpg.k tgfrxmb,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugvful u ;g.sbgmu
pkzxkbgbkgavtgbmvbgfrlu,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gfrxmbg.ugfv ugqkzaujggXvoosa
Nr.rsagakgfsimg.ulbgmragfrl gbkgprl gksbgbmuguaauliugvl gfkbrklagkp
fv luaa,gbmvb,grlgbmugul ,gmugmrfauopgqulbgksbgkpgmragqrba,gvl gbkgasimgv
 uxzuu,gbmvbgmugikso glunuzgvpbuzgzuiknuzgmragys xfulb,gvl gfrxmbg.zvx
bmvbgmugqvag.uikfugvgpkkog.tgbkkgfsimgqra kfjggAkfugbmuzugvzugqmkgbmzksxm
puvzgvlbrirwvbugbmugmvlxfvl;gvl gbmuzugqvagbmugfvl,gqmkaugutuag.urlx
sl.ksl gbkgmvnugmragwvz klgzuv gbkgmrf,gqvagpksl gabvzcg uv gswklgbmu
aivppko ,g.tgbmugabzkcugkpgrfvxrlvbrkljggQugabvzb,gbzuf.ou,gbszlgwvou,
vl g.osam,gvagqugvzugnvzrksaotgfknu g.tgrfvxrlvbrkl;gvl ,g.urlxgv-.u ,
puuogkszg.k ruagvxrbvbu gqrbmgrbagwkquzgbkgbmvbg uxzuu,gvagunulgakfubrfua
bkguhwrzrlxjggVl g.krorlxgtksbm,gqmulgpvabgvaouuw,gxzkqagakgqvzfgqrbm
pvlit,gvagrlgvg zuvfgbkgavbraptgvfkzksag uarzua:--

ggggggggg“Sb,gesvargbzvlavibragavuwugkflr.sgzu.s,gwzkpsl vlb
ggggggggggPosfrlragrlxulbua,gposibsa,gnuabufesugizsulbulbj”

Vobmksxmgrbg.uglkgluqgbmrlxgbkgauugmkzlagxzkqlgrlgvglrxmbgklgbmugpkzumuv 
kpgklugbmvbgmv glklugqmulgmugqulbgbkg.u ,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gqmvbg.upuoo
Irwwsa,gCrlxgkpgRbvot,ggragfufkzv.ou;gqmkgmvnrlxgklug vtg.uulgvgnuzt
 uorxmbu gawuibvbkzgkpgvg.sooprxmb,gvl gmvnrlxgvoogbmuglrxmbg zuvfu gbmvb
mugmv gmkzlagklgmragmuv ,g r ,g.tgbmugpkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrkl,gzuvootgivsau
bmufgbkgxzkqgbmuzujggWvaarklgxvnugbkgbmugaklgkpgIzkuasagbmugnkriugqmrim
lvbszugmv g ulru gmrfjggVl gVlbrkimsagpuoogrlbkgvgpunuz,grlpovfu gqrbm
bmug.uvsbtgkpgAbzvbklriu,gbkkg uuwotgrfwzrlbu grlgmragaksojggWorlt
wzubul agbkgmvnugauulgOsirsagIkaarbrsa,gqmkgpzkfgvgqkfvlgqvagbszlu grlbk
vgfvlgswklgmuzgnuztgqu  rlx- vtjggWklbvlsagvl gkbmuzagzuwkzbgbmugorcu
fubvfkzwmkaragbkgmvnugmvwwulu grlgbmuaugovbbuzg vtagrlgRbvotjggVl ,
bmzksxmgbmugnumufulbg uarzugkpgmrfgvl gmragfkbmuz:

gggggggggg“Nkobvgwsuzgakonrb,gesvugpkufrlvgnknuzvb,gRwmraj”

Ftauopgwvaarlxg.tgNrbztgougPzvlikra,ggavqgvgfvlgbmug.ramkwgkpgAkraakla
mv ,grlgiklprzfvbrkl,givoou gXuzfvrl,gqmkfgvoogbmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmu
woviugmv gclkqlgbkg.ugvgxrzogbroogbqk-vl -bqulbtgtuvzagkpgvxu,givoou 
FvztjggMugqva,gvbgbmugbrfugkpgftg.urlxgbmuzu,gnuztgpsoogkpg.uvz ,gko ,
vl glkbgfvzzru jggMugbko gsa,gbmvbg.tgabzvrlrlxgmrfauopgrlgvgouvwgmra
fvougkzxvlagivfugksb;gvl gbmugxrzoagkpgbmvbgwoviugmvnu,gbkgbmrag vt,gv
aklx,gqmuzurlgbmutgv nraugklugvlkbmuzglkbgbkgbvcugbkkgxzuvbgabzr ua,gpkz
puvzgkpg.urlxgbszlu grlbkgful,gvagFvztgXuzfvrlgqvajggRbgraglkgqkl uzgrp
bmragakzbgkpgviir ulbgpzuesulbotgmvwwul;gpkzgrpgrfvxrlvbrklgmvnugvlt
wkquzgrlgasimgbmrlxa,grbgragakgiklbrlsvootgvl gnrxkzksaotg.ulbgswklgbmra
as.yuib,gbmvbgbkgbmugul grbgfvtglkbgakgkpbulgzuovwaugrlbkgbmugavfu
bmksxmbgvl gnrkouliugkpg uarzu,grbgquzug.ubbuz,gkliugpkzgvoo,gbkgxrnu
bmuaugtkslxgqulimuagbmugbmrlxagbmutgoklxgpkzj

Akfugvbbzr.sbugbmugaivzagkpgCrlxg vxk.uzbgvl gkpgAbjgPzvliragbkgbmugpkziu
kpgrfvxrlvbrkljggRbgragavr ,gbmvbg.tgrbg.k ruagqroogakfubrfuag.ugzufknu 
pzkfgbmurzgwoviua;gvl gIuoasagbuooagsagkpgvgwzruabgqmkaugaksogqkso g.u
zvnramu grlbkgasimgvlguiabvatgbmvbgbmug.k tgqkso ,gpkzgvgoklxgbrfu,
zufvrlgqrbmksbgaulaugkzgzuawrzvbrkljggAbjgVsxsabrlugfvcuagfulbrklgkp
vlkbmuz,gqmk,gswklgbmugmuvzrlxgkpgvltgovfulbv.ougkzg koupsogizrua,gqkso 
wzuaulbotgpvoogrlbkgvgaqkkl,gvl g.ugakgpvzgksbgkpgmrfauop,gbmvbgrbgqvagrl
nvrlgbkgivoo,g.vqogrlgmraguvza,gwrlimgkzg.szlgmrf,gbroogmugnkoslbvzrot
ivfugbkgmrfauop;gvl gbmulgmugqkso gavt,gbmvbgmugmv gmuvz gnkriuagvagrb
quzugvpvzgkpp,gvl g r gpuuogqmulgbmutgwrlimu gvl g.szlu gmrf;gvl ,gbk
wzknugbmvbgbmragqvaglkgk.abrlvbug raarfsovbrklgrlg uprvliugkpgmragaulau
kpgpuuorlx,grbgqvagfvlrpuab,gbmvbgvoogbmugqmrougmugmv glurbmuzgwsoauglkz
.zuvbmrlxj

‘Bragnuztgwzk.v.ou,gbmvbgnrarkla,gulimvlbfulba,gvl gvooguhbzvkz rlvzt
uppuibagkpgbmvbglvbszu,g uzrnugbmurzgizu rbgwzrlirwvootgpzkfgbmugwkquzgkp
rfvxrlvbrkl,gqkzcrlxgvl gfvcrlxgrbagimrupuabgrfwzuaarklgswklgnsoxvzgvl 
fkzuguvatgaksoa,gqmkaug.uorupgragakgabzvlxuotgrfwkau gswkl,gvagbkgbmrlc
bmutgauugqmvbgbmutg kglkbgauuj

Rgvfglkbgavbrapru gqmubmuzgbmkaugwouvavlbgorxvbszua--[Ouaglksufulba
 ’vrxsrooubbua,gvagbmutgquzugivoou ,gclkbagbru g.tgakfugklu,gvbgv
qu  rlx,gklgvgabzrwgkpgouvbmuz,gikbbkl,gkzgaroc,gvl gqmrim,guawuirvoot
qmulgwvaau gbmzksxmgbmugqu  rlx-zrlx,gquzugaswwkau gbkgmvnugbmugfvxrivo
uppuibgkpgwzunulbrlxgvgiklasffvbrklgkpgbmugfvzzrvxugslbrogbmutgquzu
slbru jggAuugOksvl zu,gOvgAkziuoouzru,g1853,gwjg73jggBmugavfu
aswuzabrbrklgvl gvwworvliuguhrabu grlgUlxovl j]--qrbmgqmrimgbmragvxugkp
kszagragakgkiiswru ,gbmvbgbmuzugragvofkabglkgkbmuzgbvoc,gvzuglkbgfuzu
nkoslbvztgrfwzuaarklagkpgvwwzumularklgvl gpuvz;gpkzgRgclkq,g.t
uhwuzruliu,grlgbmugivaugkpgvgwvzbrisovzgpzrul gkpgfrlu,gklugpkzgqmkfgR
ivlg.ugvagzuawklar.ougvagpkzgftauop,gvl gvgfvlgbmvbgivllkbgwkaar.otgpvoo
sl uzgvltgfvlluzgkpgasawrirklgkpgrlaspprirulit,gvl gvagorbbougkpg.urlx
ulimvlbu ,gqmkgmvnrlxgmuvz gvgikfwvlrklgkpgmragfvcugvgzuovbrklgkpgvl
slsasvogpzrxr rbtgbmvbgaszwzrau gmrfgvbgvgnuztgslauvaklv.ougbrfu;g.urlx
vpbuzqvz agmrfauopgulxvxu gswklgbmugavfugviikslb,gbmugmkzzkzgkpgbmu
pkzfuzgabkztgklgvgas  ulgakgabzvlxuotgwkaauaau gmragrfvxrlvbrkl,gbmvbgmu
zvlgbmugavfugpkzbslugbmugkbmuzgmv g klu;gvl gpzkfgbmvbgbrfugpkzqvz ,gbmu
aiszntgzufuf.zvliugkpgmrag ravabuzgzsllrlxgrlgmragfrl gvl gbtzvllrarlx
knuzgmrf,gmugqvagas.yuibgbkgzuovwaugrlbkgbmugavfugfrapkzbslujggMugpksl 
akfugzufu t,gmkqunuz,gpkzgbmragpvlitgrlgvlkbmuzgpvlit,g.tgmrfauopgpzvlcot
iklpuaarlxgvl g uiovzrlxg.upkzumvl gbkgbmugwvzbtgqrbmgqmkfgmugqvagbkgmvnu
bkg k,gbmragas.yuibrklgkpgmra,g.tgqmrimgfuvla,gbmugvxrbvbrklgkpgmragakso
qva,grlgakfugakzb,gvwwuvau ;gvl gclkqrlxgbmvb,glkq,gakfugasim
fra.umvnrkszgqvaguhwuibu gpzkfgmrf,gbmugzuabzvrlbgswklgmragpvisobruagxzuq
ouaajggVl gvpbuzqvz a,gvbgasimgbrfuagvagmugqvagrlglkgasimgvwwzumularkl,
qmulgaubbrlxgv.ksbgbmugvibg(mragbmksxmbag.urlxgbmulg raulxvxu gvl gpzuu,
vl gmrag.k tgrlgrbagbzsugvl glvbszvoguabvbu)gmugqvagvbgouraszugbkgivsau
bmugwvzbgbkg.ugmvl ou gvl gikffslrivbu gbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugkbmuz
wvzbt,gmugqvagbkbvootgpzuu gpzkfgbmvbgnuhvbrksagrlprzfrbtjggVpbuzgvgfvl
mvagkliug klugvgqkfvlgzrxmb,gmugraglunuzgvpbuzgrlg vlxuzgkpgfra.umvnrlx
mrfauopgqrbmgbmvbgwuzakl,gslouaagswklgbmugviikslbgkpgakfuguhisav.ou
quvcluaajggLurbmuzgragbmrag ravabuzgbkg.ugpuvzu ,g.sbgrlgv nulbszua,
qmuzugbmugaksogragknuzuhbul u gqrbmg uarzugkzgzuawuib,gvl ,guawuirvoot,
qmuzugbmugkwwkzbslrbtgragkpgvlgslpkzuauulgvl gwzuaarlxglvbszu;grlgbmkau
ivaua,gbmuzugraglkgfuvlagpkzgvgfvlgbkg upul gmrfauopgpzkfgasimgv
aszwzrau,gvagamvoogwsbgmrfgvobkxubmuzgksbgkpgakzbajggRgmvnugclkqlgakfu,
qmkgmvnugauiszu gbmufauonuagpzkfgbmragfraimvliu,g.tgikfrlxgmvopgavbu 
uoauqmuzu,gwszwkauotgbkgv.vbugbmugvz kszgkpgbmugpszt,gvl gkbmuza,gqmk,
.urlxgxzkqlgko ,gprl gbmufauonuagouaagrfwkbulbg.tg.urlxgouaagv.ou;gvl 
klu,gqmkgpksl gvlgv nvlbvxugrlg.urlxgvaaszu g.tgvgpzrul gkpgmra,gbmvbgmu
mv gvgikslbuz-imvzfgkpgulimvlbfulbagbmvbgqkso gauiszugmrfgpzkfgbmra
 raxzviujggBmugabkztgrbauopgraglkb,gfsimgvfraa,gvl gbmuzupkzugtksgamvoo
mvnugrbj

VgIkslbgkpgvgnuztgxzuvbgpvfrot,gvl gqrbmgqmkfgRgqvagnuztgrlbrfvbu,g.urlx
fvzzru gbkgvgpvrzgov t,gqmkgmv gpkzfuzotg.uulgikszbu g.tgklugqmkgqvagvb
bmugqu  rlx,gvoogmragpzrul agquzugrlgnuztgxzuvbgpuvz;g.sbguawuirvootgvl
ko gov tgmragcrlaqkfvl,gqmkgmv gbmugkz uzrlxgkpgbmugakouflrbt,gvl grl
qmkaugmksaugrbgqvagcuwb,gasawuibrlxgmragzrnvogqkso gkppuzgpksogwovtg.t
bmuaugakziuzruajggQmrimgpuvzgamugikffslrivbu gbkgfujggRg.v ugmuzgzuot
swklgfu:gRgmv ,g.tgimvliu,gv.ksbgfugvgiuzbvrlgpovbgwovbugkpgxko ,gqmuzukl
quzugxzvnulgakfugiuouabrvogprxszua,gaswwkau gxkk gvxvrlabgaslabzkcugkz
wvrlagrlgbmugmuv ,g.urlxgvwworu gbkgbmugasbszu:gqmuzu,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbgbmu
.ubbuzgzufvrlgprzf,grbgqvagauqu gbkgvgzr..klgbkg.ugbru gsl uzgbmugimrl;gv
pkwwuztgiksarl-xuzfvlgbkgbmragkpgqmrimgRgvfgawuvcrlxjggYvesuagWuooubruz,
qmkgornu grlgftgmksau,gmv gwzuaulbu gbmragbkgfugpkzgvgarlxsovzgzvzrbtj
Rgmv gvgpvlitgbkgfvcugakfugsaugkpgbmragclvic,gvl gbmuzupkzugwzrnvbuot
bko gbmugIkslb,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgwkaar.otgzslgbmugavfugpkzbslugkbmuz
.zr uxzkkfagmv gakfubrfuag klu,guawuirvootgakfugklug.urlxgrlgbmugmksau,
qmk,glkg ks.b,gqkso g.ugxov gbkg kgmrfgasimgvgikszbuat:g.sbgoubgmrf
.ko otgxkgbkg.u jggPkzgRgqkso g kgmrfgbmugkppriugkpgvgpzrul ,gvl ,grp
luu gquzu,gqkso glkbgawvzugvgfrzviougrbgqvagrlgftgwkquzgbkg k,gwzknr u 
mugqkso gulxvxugbkgfu,gswklgmragmklksz,gbkgcuuwgrbgbkgmrfauop;gvl gklot,
qmulgbmutgivfugbkg.zrlxgmrfgmragivs ou,--[VgisabkfgrlgPzvliugbkg.zrlxgbmu
.zr uxzkkfgvgivs ougrlgbmugfr  ougkpgbmuglrxmbgklgmragqu  rlx-lrxmb]--
rpgfvbbuzagmv glkbgxklugquoogqrbmgmrf,gbkgxrnugfugasimgvgarxl,gvl gouvnu
bmugzuabgbkgfujggLkqgmugmv gmv gmraguvzagakg.vbbuzu ,gvl gmragfrl gak
wzuwkaauaau gqrbmgbmugubuzlvogbvbbougkpgbmrag.sarluaa,gbmvbgqmulgmugivfu
bk’b,gmug r gzuvootgprl gmrfauopgbru gqrbmgbmugbzks.ougkpgmra
rfvxrlvbrkl,gvl ,gviikz rlxot,gvbgbmugbrfugvwwkrlbu ,gxvnugfugbmugarxlj
Qmuzuswkl,gRgqmrawuzu gmrfgrlgbmuguvz,gbmvbgmugamkso gzrau,gsl uz
wzubuliugkpgwsbbrlxgsagksbgkpgbmugzkkf,gvl gvpbuzgvgyuabrlxgfvlluzgwsoo
ftglrxmbxkqlgpzkfgftgamkso uza--qugquzugkpgfsimgv.ksbgbmugavfugmurxmb--
bmzkqgrbgknuzgmragkql,gvl gbmuzugcuuwgrbgbroogmugmv gwuzpkzfu gqmvbgRgmv 
vwwkrlbu gmrfgbkg k,gqmrimgqva,gbmvbgqmulgqugquzugvoogxklugksbgkpgbmu
imvf.uz,gmugamkso gqrbm zvqgbkgfvcugqvbuz,gamkso gbmzuugbrfuagzuwuvbgasim
vl gasimgqkz a,gvl gvagkpbulg kgasimgvl gasimgvibrkla;gbmvbgvbgunuztgkp
bmugbmzuugbrfua,gmugamkso gbrugbmugzr..klgRgwsbgrlbkgmragmvl gv.ksbgmra
fr  ou,gvl g.ugaszugbkgwoviugbmugfu vogbmvbgqvagpvabulu gbkgrb,gbmu
prxszuagrlgasimgvgwkabszu,guhvibotgswklgmragzurla,gqmrimg.urlxg klu,gvl 
mvnrlxgbmugovabgkpgbmugbmzuugbrfuagakgquoogxrzbgvl gpvabgbru gbmugzr..kl
bmvbgrbgikso glurbmuzgslbruglkzgaorwgpzkfgrbagwoviu,goubgmrfgiklpr ulbot
zubszlgbkgmrag.sarluaa,gvl gqrbmvoglkbgpkzxubgbkgawzuv gftgxkqlgswklgbmu
.u ,gakgbmvbgrbgfrxmbg.ugaszugbkgiknuzgbmufg.kbmjggBmuaugvwu’agbzricagvzu
bmugfvrlgkpgbmuguppuib,gkszgpvlitg.urlxgakgpvzgau siu gvagbkg.uorunugbmvb
asimgabzvlxugfuvlagfsab,gkpgluiuaarbt,gwzkiuu gpzkfgakfugv.abzsau
airuliu:gbmurzgnuztgrlvlrbtgxrnuagbmufgqurxmbgvl gzunuzuliujggVl ,
iuzbvrlgrbgra,gbmvbgftgprxszuagvwwzknu gbmufauonuagfkzugnuluzuvogbmvl
akovz,gfkzugvibrnugbmvlgwzkmr.rbrnujgg‘Bqvagvgas  ulgqmrfaut,gfrhu gqrbm
vgorbbougiszrkarbt,gbmvbgfv ugfug kgvgbmrlxgakgiklbzvztgbkgftglvbszu;gpkz
Rgvfgvlguluftgbkgvoogas.bougvl gikslbuzpurbgvibrkla,gvl gv.kfrlvbugvoo
fvlluzgkpgbzricuzt,gbmksxmgrbg.ugpkzgawkzb,gvl gbkgvlgv nvlbvxu;gpkz
bmksxmgbmugvibrklgfvtglkbg.ugnrirksagrlgrbauop,grbagfk ugragnrirksaj

Vfvara,gCrlxgkpgUxtwb,gmvnrlxgfvzzru gOvk riu,gvgnuztg.uvsbrpsogXzuuc
nrzxrl,gbmksxmglkbu gpkzgmragv.rorbruaguoauqmuzu,gpksl gmrfauopgesrbu
vlkbmuzgfvlgqrbmgmragqrpu,gvl gikso g.tglkgfuvlagulyktgmuz;gvbgqmrimgmu
qvagakgulzvxu ,gbmvbgmugbmzuvbulu gbkgcroogmuz,gasawuibrlxgmuzgbkg.ugv
qrbimjggVag‘bragsasvogrlgbmrlxagbmvbgiklarabgrlgpvlit,gamugwsbgmrfgswkl
 unkbrkl,gvl gmvnrlxgviikz rlxotgfv ugmragnkqagbkgNulsa,gmugpksl gmrfauop
 rnrluotgzuabkzu gbmugnuztgprzabglrxmbgvpbuzgmragk.ovbrklagvl 
avizrpriuajggLkqgqkfulgvzugbkg.ovfugbkgulbuzbvrlgsagqrbmgbmvbg ra vrlpso,
ikt,gvl gvlxztgikslbulvliu,gqmrimguhbrlxsramuagkszgnrxksz,gvagrbgcrl oua
kszg uarzu;gqmrimgfv ugbmug vsxmbuz-rl-ovqgkpgWtbmvxkzva--[Bmuvlk,gbmu
ov tgrlgesuabrklgqvagbmugqrpu,glkbgbmug vsxmbuz-rl-ovqgkpgWtbmvxkzvaj]--
avt,g“Bmvbgbmugqkfvlgqmkgxkuagbkg.u gbkgvgfvl,gfsabgwsbgkppgmuzgfk uabt
qrbmgmuzgwubbrikvb,gvl gwsbgrbgklgvxvrlgqrbmgbmugavfuj”ggBmugaksogkpgbmu
vaavrovlb,g.urlxg rabsz.u gqrbmgfvltgaunuzvogvovzfa,gzuv rotgokauagbmu
wkquzgkpgwuzpkzfvliu;gvl gqmkunuzgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgmvagkliugwsbgbmragbzric
swkl,gvl giklpksl u gqrbmgbmugamvfugkpgrbg(vl gamuglunuzg kuagrbg.sbgvb
bmugprzabgviesvrlbvliu,g.tgzuvaklgfulgvzugbmulgfkzugvz ulbgvl guvxuz,gvl 
voak,gvbgbmragprzabgviikslbgvgfvlgxrnuagkpgmrfauop,gmugragfsimgfkzu
brfkzksagkpgfraivzztrlx),gmvnrlxgfv ugvlgroog.uxrllrlx,gmugulbuzagrlbk
asimgpunuzgvl g uawrbugvbgbmugviir ulb,gvagvzugvwbgbkgzufvrlgvl giklbrlsu
qrbmgmrfgswklgpkookqrlxgkiivarklaj

Fvzzru gwukwou,gmvnrlxgvoogbmurzgbrfug.upkzugbmuf,gksxmbglunuzgbkgikfwuo
kzgakgfsimgvagbkgkppuzgvbgbmugpuvb,grpgbmutg kglkbgprl gbmufauonuagesrbu
zuv t:gvl grbgragouaagslauufotgbkgpvrogkpgmvl auoorlxgbmuglswbrvogamuuba,
qmulgvgfvlgwuziurnuagmrfauopgpsoogkpgvxrbvbrklgvl gbzuf.orlx,gvl gbk
vqvrbgvlkbmuzgkwwkzbslrbtgvbgfkzugwzrnvbugvl gfkzugikfwkau gouraszu,gbmvl
bkgfvcugmrfauopgwuzwubsvootgfrauzv.ou,gpkzgmvnrlxgfra.umvnu gmrfauopgvl 
.uulg.vppou gvbgbmugprzabgvaavsobjggBroogwkaauaarklg.ugbvcul,gvgfvlgbmvb
clkqagmrfauopgas.yuibgbkgbmragrlprzfrbt,gamkso gouraszuotgvl g.tg uxzuua
fvcugaunuzvogorbbougbzrvoagvl gorxmbgkppuza,gqrbmksbgk.abrlvbuot
vbbufwbrlxgvbgkliu,gbkgPkziugvlgv.akosbugiklesuabgknuzgmragkqlgfsbrlksa
vl grl rawkau gpvisobruajggAsimgvagclkqgbmurzgfuf.uzagbkg.uglvbszvoot
k.u rulb,gluu gbvcuglkgkbmuzgivzug.sbgklotgbkgikslbuzwokbgbmurz
pvlbvaruaj

Bmugrl kirougor.uzbtgkpgbmragfuf.uzgragnuztgzufvzcv.ou,gakgrfwkzbslvbuot
slzsotgrlgrbagbsfr rbtgvl grfwvbruliu,gqmulgqug kglkbgzuesrzugrb,gvl gak
slauvaklv.otg rak.u rulb,gqmulgqugabvl gfkabgrlgluu gkpgrb:gak
rfwuzrksaotgiklbuabrlxgrlgvsbmkzrbtgqrbmgbmugqroo,gvl gqrbmgakgfsim
mvsxmbtgk.abrlvitg ultrlxgvoogakorirbvbrkl,g.kbmgkpgmvl gvl gfrl jggVl 
tub,gbmksxmgmragzu.uoorklgragakgslrnuzavootgikfwovrlu gkp,gvl gbmvbgwzkkp
ragbmuliug u siu gbkgikl uflgmrf,grpgmugmv ,glunuzbmuouaa,gpuu gfu
bkgwouv gmragivsau,gRgamkso gwuzv nulbszu,g.zrlxgbmugzuabgkpgmra
puookq-fuf.uzagrlbkgasawrirklgkpgikfwokbbrlxgbmragfraimrupgvxvrlabgmrf,
ksbgkpgwszugulntgvbgbmugrfwkzbvliugvl gwouvaszuguawuirvogbkgmra
ufwoktfulb;gvl gbkgmvnu,g.tgiklpu uzvit,gvzfu gbmugqmkougqkzo gvxvrlab
mrf,g.tgfvounkoulbotgimvzxrlxgmrfgvoklu,gqrbmgbmurzgikffklgkppuliujggPkz
oubgvltgklugiklar uz,gqmubmuzgbmuzugragvltgklugwvzbgkpgkszg.k ruagbmvb
 kuaglkbgkpbulgzupsaugbkgwuzpkzfgrbagkppriugvbgbmugwzuiuwbgkpgbmugqroo,
vl gbmvbg kuaglkbgkpbulguhuziraugrbagpslibrklgrlg uprvliugkpgmuzgikffvl j
Bmutgmvnugunuztgklugkpgbmufgwvaarklagkpgbmurzgkql,gbmvbgzksaugvl gvqvcul,
abswuptgvl g.ulsf.gbmuf,gqrbmksbgkszgouvnugkzgiklaulbjggMkqgkpbulg kgbmu
rlnkoslbvztgfkbrklagkpgbmugikslbulvliug raiknuzgkszgrlqvz gbmksxmba,gvl 
.ubzvtgkszgfkabgwzrnvbugauizubagbkgbmug.tabvl uzajggBmugavfugivsaugbmvb
vlrfvbuagbmragfuf.uz,g kuagvoak,gqrbmksbgkszgclkqou xu,gvlrfvbugbmu
oslxa,gwsoau,gvl gmuvzb,gbmugarxmbgkpgvgwouvarlxgk.yuibgrfwuziuwbr.ot
 rppsarlxgvgpovfugbmzksxmgvoogkszgwvzba,gqrbmgvgpunuzramgfkbrkljggRa
bmuzuglkbmrlxg.sbgbmuaugnurlagvl gfsaiouagbmvbgaquoogvl gpovxgqrbmksbgbmu
iklaulb,glkbgklotgkpgbmugqroo,g.sbgunulgkpgkszgclkqou xugvoak?ggQug kglkb
ikffvl gkszgmvrzagbkgabvl gklgul ,glkzgkszgacrlgbkgamrnuzgurbmuzgqrbm
puvzgkzg uarzu;gbmugmvl agkpbulgiklnutgbmufauonuagbkgwvzbagbkgqmrimgqug k
lkbg rzuibgbmuf;gbmugbklxsugqroog.ugrlbuz rib,gvl gbmugnkriugiklxuvou ,
qmulgqugclkqglkbgmkqgbkgmuowgrbjggQmulgqugmvnuglkbmrlxgbkguvb,gvl gqkso 
qroorlxotgpkz.r grb,gbmugvwwubrbug kuaglkb,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gpkz.uvzgbkgabrz
swgbmugwvzbagbmvbgvzugas.yuibgbkgrb,glkgfkzuglkzgouaagbmvlgbmugkbmuz
vwwubrbugqugquzugawuvcrlxgkp,gvl grlgorcugfvlluz,gvagslauvaklv.otgouvnua
sa,gqmulgrbgbmrlcagprbjggBmugnuaauoagbmvbgauznugbkg raimvzxugbmug.uoot
mvnugbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzg rovbvbrklagvl gikfwzuaarkla,gqrbmksbgvl g.utkl 
kszgikliszzuliu,gvagquoogvagbmkaugqmrimgvzug uabrlu gbkgwszxugbmugzurla;
vl gbmvbgqmrim,gbkgysabrptgbmugwzuzkxvbrnugkpgbmugqroo,gAbjgVsxsabrlu
szxua,gkpgmvnrlxgauulgvgfvlgqmkgikso gikffvl gmragzuvzgbkg raimvzxugva
kpbulgbkxubmuzgvagmugwouvau ,gNrnua,gmragikffulbvbkz,gtubgpszbmuz
pkzbrpruagqrbmgvlkbmuzguhvfwougrlgmragbrfu,--kpgklugbmvbgikso g.zuvcgqrl 
rlgbslu;g.sbgbmuaugivauag kglkbgaswwkaugvltgfkzugwszugk.u ruliugrlgbmvb
wvzb;gpkzgragvltbmrlxgikffklotgfkzugbsfsobsvztgkzgrl raizuub?ggBkgqmrim
oubgfugv  ,gbmvbgRgftauopgcluqgklugakgzs ugvl gslxknuzlu ,gvagpkzgpkzbt
tuvzagbkxubmuzgfv ugmragfvabuzgnulbgqrbmgklugiklbrlsu gvl gslrlbuzfrbbu 
ksb.szabrlx,gvl g‘bragorcugqroog kgakgbroogmug rugkpgrbjggVl gRgikso 
muvzbrotgqram,gbmvbgRgklotgcluqg.tgzuv rlx,gmkqgkpbulgvgfvl’ag.uoot,g.t
bmug ulrvogkpgklugarlxougwspp,g.zrlxagmrfgbkgbmugnuztg kkzgkpgvl
uhiuu rlxgwvrlpsog uvbm;gvl gbmvbgbmugufwuzkz,--[BmugUfwuzkzgIovs rsa,
qmk,gmkqunuz,gviikz rlxgbkgAsubklrsag(Nrbv,gijg32),gklotgrlbul u gbk
vsbmkzraugbmragarlxsovzgwzrnrouxug.tgvlgu ribj]--qmkgxvnugor.uzbtgbkgoub
potgrlgvoogwoviua,gmv ,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gxrnulgsagwkquzgbkg kgrbjgg.sb
pkzgkszgqroo,grlgqmkaug.umvopgqugwzupuzgbmragviisavbrkl,gqrbmgmkqgfsim
xzuvbuzgwzk.v.rorbtgfvtgqugzuwzkvimgmuzauopgqrbmgfsbrltgvl gau rbrkl,gpkz
muzgrzzuxsovzrbtgvl g rak.u ruliu?gg kuagamugvoqvtagqroogqmvbgqugqkso 
mvnugmuzgbkg k?gg kuagamuglkbgkpbulgqroogqmvbgqugpkz.r gmuzgbkgqroo,gvl 
bmvbgbkgkszgfvlrpuabgwzuys riu?gg kuagamugasppuzgmuzauop,gfkzugbmvlgvlt
kpgbmugzuab,gbkg.ugxknuzlu gvl g rzuibu g.tgbmugzuasobagkpgkszgzuvakl?gBk
iklios u,gRgamkso gfknu,grlgbmug.umvopgkpgbmugxulboufvl,gftgiorulb,grb
frxmbg.ugiklar uzu ,gbmvbgrlgbmragpvib,gmragivsaug.urlxgrlauwvzv.otgvl 
rl rabrlibotgiklykrlu gqrbmgvlgviiuaakzt,gtubgmugklotgragivoou grl
esuabrkl,gvl gbmvbg.tgvzxsfulbagvl gviisavbrkla,gqmrimgivllkbg.ugimvzxu 
swklgbmugkbmuz;gqmkaug.sarluaa,grl uu ,grbgragakfubrfuagrlkwwkzbsluotgbk
rlnrbu,g.sbglunuzgbkgzupsau,gvl grlnrbu,gfkzuknuz,gvpbuzgvgbvirbgvl 
esrubgfvlluz;gvl gbmuzupkzugragbmugfvoriugvl grlysabriugkpgmragviisauza
fkabgfvlrpuabotgvwwvzulbjgg.sbg.ugrbgmkqgrbgqroo,gwzkbuabrlxgvxvrlabgbmu
wzkiuu rlxagkpgbmugv nkivbuagvl gys xua,glvbszugqroo,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,
wzkiuu gvpbuzgmuzgkqlgqvt,gqmkgmv g klug.sbgquoo,gmv gamugul kqu gbmra
fuf.uzgqrbmgakfugwvzbrisovzgwzrnrouxu;gbmugvsbmkzgkpgbmugakougrffkzbvo
qkzcgkpgfkzbvoa;gvg rnrlugqkzc,gviikz rlxgbkgAkizvbua;gvl goknu,gbmu
 uarzugkpgrffkzbvorbt,gvl gmrfauopgvlgrffkzbvog ufklj

Akfugklu,gwuzmvwa,g.tgasimgvlguppuibgkpgrfvxrlvbrklgfvtgmvnugmv gbmugxkk 
osicgbkgouvnug.umrl gmrfgmuzu,gbmugaizkpsov,gqmrimgmragikfwvlrklgqmkgmva
ikfugvpbuz,gmvagivzzru gqrbmgmrfgrlbkgAwvrljggVl g‘bragpkzgbmragzuvakl
tksgfvtgauugqmtgfulgrlgasimgivauagzuesrzugvgfrl gwzuwvzu gpkzgbmugbmrlx
bmvbgragbkg.ug klujggQmtg kgbmugwmtarirvlagwkaauaa,g.upkzugmvl ,gbmurz
wvbrulba’gizu sorbtgqrbmgakgfvltgpvoaugwzkfrauagkpgiszu,grpglkbgbkgbmu
ul ,gbmvbgbmuguppuibgkpgrfvxrlvbrklgfvtgaswwotgbmugrfwkabszugkpgbmurz
 uikibrkla?ggBmutgclkqgnuztgquoo,gbmvbgvgxzuvbgfvabuzgkpgbmurzgbzv ugmva
xrnulgrbgsl uzgmragmvl ,gbmvbgmugmvagclkqlgakfugqrbmgqmkfgbmugnuztgarxmb
kpgwmtarigqkso gqkzcjggVoogqmrimgikliurbagikfuglkqgrlbkgftgmuv ,g.tgbmu
zufuf.zvliugkpgvgabkztgqvagbko gfug.tgvg kfuabrigvwkbmuivztgkpgft
pvbmuz’a,gvg.oslbgAqraa,gvglvbrklglkbgfsimgv  ribu gbkgnvlrbtgvl gotrlx,
kpgvgfuzimvlbgmugmv goklxgclkqlgvbgBksoksau,gqmkg.urlxgvgnvoubs rlvzt,
vl gfsimgvpporibu gqrbmgbmugabklu,gmv gkpbulgkiivarklgbkgbvcugiotabuza,
kpgqmrimgmugivsau gaunuzvogakzbagbkg.ugwzuaizr.u gmrfg.tgbmugwmtarirvla,
viiikz rlxgbkgbmugviir ulbagkpgmrag rauvau;gqmrim,g.urlxg.zksxmbgmrf,gvl 
lklugkpgbmugsasvogpkzfa,gvagpuuorlxgrpgrbgquzuglkbgbkkgmkb,gvl gbmugorcu,
.urlxgkfrbbu ,gmugovtg kql,gbmugatzrlxugv nvliu ,gvl gvoogiuzufklrua
wuzpkzfu ,grlyuibrklgvokluguhiuwbu ;gvpbuzgqmrim,gbmugvwkbmuivztg.urlx
xklu,gvl gbmugwvbrulbgviikffk vbu gvagrpgmugmv gzuvootgzuiurnu gv
iotabuz,gmugpksl gbmugavfugkwuzvbrklgvl guppuibgbmvbgbmkaug kgqmkgmvnu
bvculgklugrl uu ;gvl grpgvbgvltgbrfugbmugwmtarirvlg r glkbgprl gbmu
kwuzvbrklgaspprirulb,gmugqkso gsasvootgxrnugmrfgbqkgkzgbmzuugfkzug kaua,
vpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluzjggVl gbmugpuookqgaqkzu,gbmvbgbkgavnugimvzxuag(pkz
mugwvr gvagrpgmugmv gzuvootgbvculgbmuf)gbmragaricgfvl’agqrpu,gmvnrlx
akfubrfuagfv ugbzrvogkpgqvzfgqvbuzgklot,gbmuguppuibg raiknuzu gbmugimuvb,
vl gprl rlxgbmuaugqkso g kglkgxkk ,gqvagpvrlgbkgzubszlgbkgbmugko gqvtj

Vgqkfvlgpvlitrlxgamugmv gaqvookqu gvgwrlgrlgvgwruiugkpg.zuv ,gizru gvl 
ovfulbu gvagbmksxmgamugmv gvlgrlbkouzv.ougwvrlgrlgmuzgbmzkvb,gqmuzugamu
bmksxmbgamugpuobgrbgabric;g.sbgvlgrlxulrksagpuookqgbmvbgqvag.zksxmbgbk
muz,gauurlxglkgksbqvz gbsfkszglkzgvobuzvbrkl,gaswwkarlxgrbgbkg.ugklotgv
ikliurbgbvculgvbgakfugizsabgkpg.zuv gbmvbgmv gmszbgmuzgvagrbgqulbg kql,
ivsau gmuzgbkgnkfrb,gvl ,gslauul,gbmzuqgvgizkkcu gwrlgrlbkgbmug.varl,
qmrimgbmugqkfvlglkgakkluzgavq,g.sbg.uorunrlxgamugmv givabgrbgsw,gamu
wzuaulbotgpksl gmuzauopguvau gkpgmuzgwvrljggRgftauopgcluqgvgxulboufvl,
qmkgmvnrlxgbzuvbu gvgovzxugikfwvltgvbgmragmksau,gbmzuugkzgpkszg vtagvpbuz
.zvxxu grlgyuabg(pkzgbmuzugqvaglkgasimgbmrlx),gbmvbgmugmv gfv ugbmufguvb
kpgvg.vcu givb;gvbgqmrim,gvgtkslxgxulbouqkfvl,gqmkgmv g.uulgvbgbmugpuvab,
bkkcgasimgvgmkzzkz,gbmvbgpvoorlxgrlbkgvgnrkoulbgnkfrbrlxgvl gpunuz,gbmuzu
qvaglkgwkaar.ougfuvlagbkgavnugmuzjggUnulg.zsbug.uvabagvzugas.yuibgbkgbmu
pkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrklgvagquoogvagqu;gqrbluaag kxa,gqmkg rugkpgxzrupgpkz
bmugokaagkpgbmurzgfvabuza;gvl g.vzcgvl gbzuf.ougvl gabvzbgrlgbmurzgaouuw;
akgmkzauagqroogcricgvl gqmrlltgrlgbmurzgaouuwj

Lkqgvoogbmragfvtg.ugvbbzr.sbu gbkgbmugiokaugvpprlrbtgvl gzuovbrklg.ubqrhb
bmugaksogvl gbmug.k tgrlbuzikffslrivbrlxgbmurzgpkzbslua;g.sbg‘bragesrbu
vlkbmuzgbmrlxgqmulgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgqkzcaglkbgklotgswklgklu’agkql
wvzbrisovzg.k t,g.sbgswklgbmvbgkpgkbmuzagvoakjggVl gvagvlgrlpuibu g.k t
ikffslrivbuagrbagfvov tgbkgbmkaugbmvbgvwwzkvimgkzgornugluvzgrb,gvagqugauu
rlgbmugwovxsu,gbmugafvoowkh,gvl gakzugutua,gbmvbgzslgbmzksxmgqmkou
pvfroruagvl girbrua:--

gggggggggg“ sfgawuibvlbgkisorgovuaka,govu slbszgubgrwar;
ggggggggggFsobvesugikzwkzr.sagbzvlarbrkluglkiulbj”

ggggg[“Qmulgqugokkcgvbgwukwougqrbmgakzugutua,gkszgkqlgutuag.uikfugakzuj
gggggFvltgbmrlxagvzugmszbpsogbkgkszg.k ruag.tgbzvlarbrklj”
gggggg--Knr ,g ugZufjgVfkzj,g615j]

--akgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl,g.urlxgnumufulbotgvxrbvbu ,g vzbagksbgrlpuibrkl
ivwv.ougkpgkppul rlxgbmugpkzurxlgk.yuibjggBmugvlirulbagmv gvlgkwrlrklgkp
iuzbvrlgqkfulgkpgAitbmrv,gbmvbg.urlxgvlrfvbu gvl gulzvxu gvxvrlabgvlt
klu,gbmutgcroou gmrfgklotgqrbmgbmurzgokkcajggBkzbkrauagvl gkabzrimua
mvbimgbmurzguxxagqrbmgklotgokkcrlxgklgbmuf,gqmrimgrlpuzagbmvbgbmurzgutua
mvnugrlgbmufgakfuguyvisovbrnugnrzbsujggVl gbmugutuagkpgqrbimuagvzugavr 
bkg.ugvaavrovlbgvl gmszbpso:--

gggggggggg“Luairkgesragbuluzkagkisosagfrmrgpvairlvbgvxlkaj”

ggggg[“Akfugutu,gRgclkqglkbgqmkaugrag.uqrbimrlxgftgbul uzgovf.aj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gUiokxj,grrrjgg103j]

Fvxrirvlagvzuglkgnuztgxkk gvsbmkzrbtgqrbmgfujgg.sbgquguhwuzrfulbvootgauu
bmvbgqkfulgrfwvzbgbmugfvzcagkpgbmurzgpvlitgbkgbmugimro zulgbmutgivzztgrl
bmugqkf.;gqrbluaagmuzgbmvbgqvag.zksxmbgbkg.u gkpgvgFkkz;gvl gbmuzugqva
wzuaulbu gbkgImvzouagbmugUfwuzkzgvl gCrlxgkpg.kmufrv,gvgxrzogpzkfgv.ksb
Wrav,gvoogknuzgzksxmgvl giknuzu gqrbmgmvrz,gqmkfgmuzgfkbmuzgavr gbkg.ugak
ikliurnu g.tgzuvaklgkpgvgwribszugkpgAbjgYkmlgbmug.vwbrab,gbmvbgmslx
qrbmrlgbmugiszbvrlagkpgmuzg.u j

Rbgragbmugavfugqrbmg.uvaba;gqrbluaagYvik.’agamuuw,gvl gbmugmvzuagvl 
wvzbzr xuagbmvbgbmugalkqgbszlagqmrbugswklgbmugfkslbvrlajggBmuzugqvagvbgft
mksau,gvgorbbougqmrougvxk,gvgivbgauulgqvbimrlxgvg.rz gswklgbmugbkwgkpgv
bzuu:gbmuau,gpkzgakfugbrfu,gfsbsvootgprhrlxgbmurzgutuagklugswklgvlkbmuz,
bmug.rz gvbgovabgoubgmuzauopgpvoog uv grlbkgbmugivb’agiovqa,gurbmuz
 vddou g.tgbmugpkziugkpgrbagkqlgrfvxrlvbrkl,gkzg zvqlg.tgakfugvbbzvibrnu
wkquzgkpgbmugivbjggAsimgvagvzugv  ribu gbkgbmugwouvaszuagkpgbmugpruo ,
mvnu,gRgfvcuglkgesuabrkl,gmuvz gbmugabkztgkpgbmugpvoikluz,gqmkgmvnrlx
uvzluabotgprhu gmragutuagswklgvgcrbugrlgbmugvrz;govr gvgqvxuzgbmvbgmu
qkso g.zrlxgmuzg kqlgqrbmgbmugakougwkquzgkpgmragarxmb,gvl g r gak,gvagrb
qvagavr ;gpkzgbmugbvouagRg.kzzkqgRgimvzxugswklgbmugiklairuliuagkpgbmkau
pzkfgqmkfgRgmvnugbmufjggBmug raikszauagvzugftgkql,gvl gpksl gbmufauonua
swklgbmugwzkkpagkpgzuvakl,glkbgkpguhwuzruliu;gbkgqmrimgunuztgklugmva
or.uzbtgbkgv  gmragkqlguhvfwoua;gvl gqmkgmvaglklu,goubgmrfglkbgpkz.uvz,
bmuglsf.uzgvl gnvzrubruagkpgviir ulbagiklar uzu ,gbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmuzu
vzugwoulbtgkpgbmuf;grpgRg kglkbgvwwotgbmufgquoo,goubgakfugkbmuzg kgrbgpkz
fujggVl ,gvoak,grlgbmugas.yuibgkpgqmrimgRgbzuvb,gkszgfvlluzagvl gfkbrkla,
buabrfklruagvl grlabvliua;gmkqgpv.soksagakunuz,gwzknr u gbmutgvzu
wkaar.ou,gauznugvagquoogvagbmugbzsu;gqmubmuzgbmutgmvnugzuvootgmvwwulu gkz
lk,gvbgZkfugkzgWvzra,gbkgYkmlgkzgWubuz,g‘bragabroogqrbmrlgbmugnuzxugkp
msfvlgivwvirbt,gqmrimgauznuagfugbkgxkk gsaujggRgauu,gvl gfvcugft
v nvlbvxugkpgrb,gvagquoogrlgamv kqgvagrlgas.abvliu;gvl gvfklxabgbmu
nvzrksagzuv rlxagbmuzukpgrlgmrabkzt,gRgisoogksbgbmugfkabgzvzugvl 
fufkzv.ougbkgprbgftgkqlgbszljggBmuzugvzugvsbmkzagqmkaugklotgul gvl 
 uarxlgrbgragbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugmvwwulu ;gfrlu,grpgR
ikso gvzzrnugslbkgrb,gamkso g.ugbkg uornuzgkpgqmvbgfvtgmvwwuljggBmuzugra
vgysabgor.uzbtgvookqu grlgbmugaimkkoa,gkpgaswwkarlxgarfrorbs ua,gqmul
bmutgmvnuglklugvbgmvl jggRg kglkb,gmkqunuz,gfvcugvltgsaugkpgbmvb
wzrnrouxu,gvl gvagbkgbmvbgfvbbuz,grlgaswuzabrbrksagzuorxrkl,gaszwvaagvoo
mrabkzrivogvsbmkzrbtjggRlgbmuguhvfwouagqmrimgRgmuzug.zrlxgrl,gkpgqmvbgR
mvnugmuvz ,gzuv ,g klu,gkzgavr ,gRgmvnugpkz.r  ulgftauopgbkg vzugbkgvobuz
unulgbmugfkabgorxmbgvl grl rppuzulbgirzisfabvliua;gftgiklairuliug kuaglkb
pvoarptgklugbrbbou;gqmvbgftgrxlkzvliugfvtg k,gRgivllkbgavtj

Vl gbmragrbgragbmvbgfvcuagfugakfubrfuag ks.bgrlgftgkqlgfrl ,gqmubmuzgv
 rnrlu,gkzgvgwmrokakwmuz,gvl gasimgfulgkpguhvibgvl gbul uzgwzs uliugvl 
iklairuliu,gvzugprbgbkgqzrbugmrabkzt:gpkzgmkqgivlgbmutgabvcugbmurz
zuwsbvbrklgswklgvgwkwsovzgpvrbm?gmkqg.ugzuawklar.ougpkzgbmugkwrlrklagkp
fulgbmutg kglkbgclkq?gvl gqrbmgqmvbgvaaszvliug uornuzgbmurzgiklyuibszua
pkzgiszzulbgwvt?ggKpgvibrklagwuzpkzfu g.upkzugbmurzgkqlgutua,gqmuzurl
aunuzvogwuzaklagquzugvibkza,gbmutgqkso g.ugslqroorlxgbkgxrnugunr uliu
swklgkvbmg.upkzugvgys xu;gvl gbmuzugraglkgfvl,gakgpvfrorvzotgclkqlgbk
bmuf,gpkzgqmkaugrlbulbrklagbmutgqkso g.uikfugv.akosbugivsbrkljggPkzgft
wvzb,gRgbmrlcgrbgouaagmvdvz ksagbkgqzrbugkpgbmrlxagwvab,gbmvlgwzuaulb,g.t
mkqgfsimgbmugqzrbuzgragklotgbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgbmrlxagunuztgklugclkqa
mugfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.kzzkqgswklgbzsabj

Rgvfgakorirbu gbkgqzrbugbmugvppvrzagkpgftgkqlgbrfug.tgakfu,gqmkgpvlitgR
okkcgswklgbmufgqrbmgvlgutugouaag.orl u gqrbmgwvaarklgbmvlgvlkbmuz,gvl 
mvnugvgiouvzuzgrlarxmbgrlbkgbmufg.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugpzuugviiuaagpkzbslugmva
xrnulgfugbkgbmugmuv agkpgnvzrksagpvibrkla;g.sbgbmutg kglkbgiklar uz,gbmvb
bkgwszimvaugbmugxokztgkpgAvoosab,gRgqkso glkbgxrnugftauopgbmugbzks.ou,
aqkzlguluftgvagRgvfgbkgk.orxvbrkl,gvaar srbt,gkzgwuzaunuzvliu:gbmvbgbmuzu
raglkbmrlxgakgiklbzvztgbkgftgabtou,gvagvgiklbrlsu glvzzvbrnu,gRgakgkpbul
rlbuzzswbgvl gisbgftauopgamkzbgrlgftgqzrbrlxgpkzgqvlbgkpg.zuvbm;gRgmvnu
lurbmuzgikfwkarbrklglkzguhwovlvbrklgqkzbmgvltbmrlx,gvl gvfgrxlkzvlb,
.utkl gvgimro ,gkpgbmugwmzvauagvl gunulgbmugnuztgqkz agwzkwuzgbkguhwzuaa
bmugfkabgikffklgbmrlxa;gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgrbgra,gbmvbgRgmvnugsl uzbvcul
bkgavtgklotgqmvbgRgivlgavt,gvl gmvnugviikffk vbu gftgas.yuibgbkgft
abzulxbmjggAmkso gRgbvcugklugbkg.ugftgxsr u,gwuzv nulbszugRgamkso glkbg.u
v.ougbkgcuuwgwviugqrbmgmrf;gvl grlgbmugpzuu kfgkpgftgor.uzbtgfrxmb
 uornuzgys xfulba,gqmrimgswklg.ubbuzgbmksxmba,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgzuvakl,
qkso g.ugroouxrbrfvbugvl gwslramv.oujggWosbvzimgqkso gavtgkpgqmvbgmugmva
 uornuzu gbkgsa,gbmvbgrbgragbmugqkzcgkpgkbmuza:gbmvbgmraguhvfwouagvzugvoo
vl gunuztqmuzuguhvibotgbzsu:gbmvbgbmutgvzugsaupsogbkgwkabuzrbt,gvl gvzu
wzuaulbu gqrbmgvgosabzugbmvbgqroogorxmbgsagbmugqvtgbkgnrzbsu,gragmragkql
qkzcjggRbgraglkbgkpgakg vlxuzksagiklauesuliu,gvagrlgvgfu rirlvog zsx,
qmubmuzgvlgko gabkztg.ugakgkzgakj




IMVWBUZgHHR

BMVBgBMUgWZKPRBgKPgKLUgFVLgRAgBMUg VFVXUgKPgVLKBMUZ

 ufv uagbmugVbmulrvl--[Auluiv,g ug.uluprirra,gnrjg38,gqmuliugluvzotgbmu
qmkougkpgbmragimvwbuzgragbvculj]--ikl uflu gklugkpgmragirbt,gqmkaugbzv u
rbgqvagbkgauoogbmugluiuaavzruagpkzgpsluzvogiuzufklrua,gswklgwzubuliugbmvb
mug ufvl u gslzuvaklv.ougwzkprb,gvl gbmvbgbmvbgwzkprbgikso glkbgviizsugbk
mrf,g.sbg.tgbmug uvbmgkpgvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgwukwoujggVgys xfulbgbmvb
vwwuvzagbkg.ugroogxzksl u ,gpkzvafsimgvaglkgwzkprbgqmvbunuzgivlgwkaar.ot
.ugfv ug.sbgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgvlkbmuz,gvl gbmvbg.tgbmugavfugzsougmu
amkso gikl uflgvoogxvrlgkpgqmvbgcrl gakunuzjggBmugfuzimvlbgklotgbmzrnua
.tgbmug u.vsimuztgkpgtksbm,gbmugmsa.vl gfvlg.tgbmug uvzluaagkpgxzvrl,gbmu
vzimrbuibg.tgbmugzsrlgkpg.sro rlxa,govqtuzagvl gkppriuzagkpgysabriug.t
bmugasrbagvl giklbulbrklagkpgful:glvt,gunulgbmugmklkszgvl gkppriugkp
 rnrluagvzug uzrnu gpzkfgkszg uvbmgvl gnriuajggVgwmtarirvlgbvcuaglk
wouvaszugrlgbmugmuvobmgunulgkpgmragpzrul a,gavtagbmugvlirulbgXzuucgikfri
qzrbuz,glkzgvgako ruzgrlgbmugwuviugkpgmragikslbzt,gvl gakgkpgbmugzuabj
Vl ,gqmrimgragtubgqkzau,goubgunuztgklug.sbg rnugrlbkgmragkqlg.kakf,gvl 
mugqroogprl gmragwzrnvbugqramuagawzrlxgvl gmragauizubgmkwuagxzkqgswgvb
vlkbmuz’aguhwulaujggSwklgqmrimgiklar uzvbrklgrbgikfuagrlbkgftgmuv ,gbmvb
lvbszug kuaglkbgrlgbmragaquznugpzkfgmuzgxuluzvogwkorbt;gpkzgwmtarirvla
mko ,gbmvbgbmug.rzbm,glkszramfulb,gvl grlizuvaugkpgunuztgbmrlxgragbmu
 raakosbrklgvl gikzzswbrklgkpgvlkbmuz:

gggggggggg“Lvfgesk isfesugasragfsbvbsfgprlr.saguhrb,
ggggggggggIklbrlskgmkigfkzaguabgroorsa,gesk gpsrbgvlbuj”

ggggg[“Pkz,gqmvbunuzgpzkfgrbagkqlgiklprluagwvaauagimvlxu ,gbmragragvb
gggggkliugbmug uvbmgkpgbmvbgqmrimg.upkzugrbgqvaj”--Osizubrsa,grrjg752j]




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggViikffk vbu gftgas.yuibgbkgftgabzulxbm
gggggVppzrxmbgwukwougqrbmgbmugnuztgfulbrklgkpg uvbm
gggggVoogRgvrfgvbgra,gbkgwvaagftgbrfugvbgftguvau
gggggVoogbmrlcgmugmvagtubgbqulbtgxkk gtuvzagbkgikfu
gggggVwwzulbriuamrwgvl gvgzuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm
ggggg.uikfugvgpkkog.tgbkkgfsimgqra kf
ggggg.kbmgmrfauopgvl gmragwkabuzrbtg uiovzu grxlk.ou,gbvhv.ou
gggggIvuavz:gmugqkso g.ugbmksxmbgvlguhiuooulbgulxrluuzgbkg.kkb
gggggIkszbuatgvl gxkk gfvlluzagragvgnuztgluiuaavztgabs t
ggggg vlxuzag k,grlgbzsbm,gorbbougkzglkbmrlxgmvabulgkszgul 
ggggg uvbmgivl,gqmulunuzgqugwouvau,gisbgamkzbgrliklnulruliua
ggggg uvbmgmvagsagunuztgfkfulbg.tgbmugbmzkvb
ggggg uvbmgragvgwvzbgkpgtks
ggggg ultrlxgvoogakorirbvbrkl,g.kbmgkpgmvl gvl gfrl 
ggggg r gftg raikszauagivfugklotgpzkfgftgfksbmgkzgpzkfgftgmuvzb
ggggg rugquoo--bmvbgra,gwvbrulbotgvl gbzvlesrootj
ggggg raiknuzgqmvbgbmuzugragkpgxkk gvl giouvlgrlgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmugwk
ggggg kqlzrxmbgvl garliuzugk.u ruliu
gggggUnuztg vtgbzvnuoagbkqvz ag uvbm;gbmugovabgklotgvzzrnuagvbgrbj
gggggPuvzgragfkzugrfwkzbslvbugvl grlaswwkzbv.ougbmvlg uvbmgrbauop
gggggPuvzgbkgokaugvgbmrlx,gqmrimg.urlxgokab,givllkbg.ugovfulbu ?
gggggPuvz:g.uxubagvgbuzzr.ougvabklramfulbgvl giklpsarkl
gggggPuvzu ,gouabg raxzviugamkso gfvcugasimg uorlesulbag uawuzvbu
gggggXrnugbmuaugtkslxgqulimuagbmugbmrlxagbmutgoklxgpkz
gggggMvnugtksgunuzgpksl gvltgqmkgmvnug.uulg raavbrapru gqrbmg trlx?
gggggMkqgfvltgfkzugmvnug ru g.upkzugbmutgvzzrnu gvbgbmtgvxu
gggggMkqgfvltgaunuzvogqvtagmvag uvbmgbkgaszwzraugsa?
gggggMkqgfsimgfkzugrlaswwkzbv.ougvl gwvrlpsogvlgrffkzbvogorpu
gggggRgmvnugornu goklxuzg.tgbmragklug vtgbmvlgRgamkso gmvnug klu
gggggRgbvcugmko gkp,gvagorbbougxokzrksagvl guhufwovztgvagtksgqroo
gggggRpglvbszug kglkbgmuowgvgorbbou,grbgragnuztgmvz 
gggggRlgbmragovabgaiulugkpg uvbm,gbmuzugraglkgfkzugikslbuzpurbrlx
gggggRliorlvbrklgbkgoknugklugvlkbmuzgvbgbmugprzabgarxmb
gggggRl kirougor.uzbtgkpgbmragfuf.uz
gggggRlaular.ougkpgbmugabzkcugqmulgkszgtksbmg ruagrlgsa
gggggOrnugvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgorpugrbauopj
gggggFsimg.ubbuzgbkgkppul gmrfgkliugbmvlgftauopgunuztg vt
gggggLvbszu,gqmkgoupbgsagrlgasimgvgabvbugkpgrfwuzpuibrkl
gggggLurbmuzgfulglkzgbmurzgornuagvzugfuvaszu g.tgbmuguoo
gggggLkgfvlgfkzugiuzbvrlgbmvlgvlkbmuzgkpgbk-fkzzkqj--Auluiv
gggggLkgklugivlg.ugivoou gmvwwtgbroogmugrag uv gvl g.szru 
gggggLkbgiuzbvrlgbkgornugbroogRgivfugmkfu
gggggLkbgfuovlimkori,g.sbgfu rbvbrnu
gggggLkbmrlxgivlg.ugvgxzrunvliugbmvbgrag.sbgkliu
gggggWmrokakwmtgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgbkg ru
gggggWzufu rbvbrklgkpg uvbmgragbmugwzufu rbvbrklgkpgor.uzbt
gggggWzkprbgfv ugklotgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgvlkbmuz
gggggZvbmuzgwzvbrlxgkpgvlkbmuzgfvl’agwzknrliugbmvlgmragkql
gggggAvfugpkootgvagbkg.ugakzztgqugquzuglkbgvornugvgmsl zu gtuvzagvxk
gggggAovnua,gkzguhroua,gkpbbrfuagornugvagfuzzrotgvagkbmuzgpkoc
gggggakfugwukwougzs u,g.tg.urlxgknuzirnroggrlgbmurzgikszbuat
gggggBmug vtgkpgtkszg.rzbmgragklug vt’agv nvliugbkqvz agbmugxzvnu
gggggBmug uv uabg uvbmagvzugbmug.uab
gggggBmugbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gRgvfgfkabgvpzvr gkpgragpuvz
gggggBmuzugraglkgoklx,glkzgamkzb,gbkgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkgfkzu
gggggBmrlxgvbgqmrimgqugvoogvrf,gunulgrlgnrzbsugragwouvaszu
gggggBmrlxagkpbulgvwwuvzgxzuvbuzgbkgsagvbg rabvliugbmvlgluvzgvbgmvl 
gggggBkgabs tgwmrokakwmtgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgbkg ru
gggggSbrorbtgkpgornrlxgiklarabaglkbgrlgbmugoulxbmgkpg vta
gggggNvokszgmvagrbag.ksl agvagquoogvagkbmuzgnrzbsua
gggggNvosrlxgbmugrlbuzuabgkpg rairworlu
gggggQuoo,gvl gqmvbgrpgrbgmv g.uulg uvbmgrbauop?
gggggQmvbgfvtg.ug klugbk-fkzzkq,gfvtg.ug klugbk- vtj
gggggQmkgqkso gqurxmgmrfgqrbmksbgbmugmklkszgvl gxzvl uszgkpgmragul j
gggggQroorlxotgaorwgbmugikoovzgkpgikffvl gswklgvltgwzubuliugqmvbunuz
gggggQkfvlgqmkgxkuagbkg.u gbkgvgfvl,gfsabgwsbgkppgmuzgfk uabt
gggggTksgfsabgprzabgauugsag ru
gggggTkslxgvl gko g rugswklgbmugavfugbuzfa






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg4j

HHRRjgggggKpgisabkf,gvl gbmvbgqugamkso glkbguvarotgimvlxugvgovqgzuiurnu 
HHRRRjggggNvzrksagunulbagpzkfgbmugavfugikslauoj
HHRNjgggggKpgwu vlbztj



IMVWBUZgHHRR

KPgISABKF,gVL gBMVBgQUgAMKSO gLKBgUVAROTgIMVLXUgVgOVQgZUIURNU 

Mugauufagbkgfugbkgmvnugmv gvgzrxmbgvl gbzsugvwwzumularklgkpgbmugwkquzgkp
isabkf,gqmkgprzabgrlnulbu gbmugabkztgkpgvgikslbzt-qkfvlgqmk,gmvnrlx
viisabkfu gmuzauopgbkgwovtgqrbmgvl givzztgvgtkslxgivopgrlgmuzgvzfa,gvl 
 vrotgiklbrlsrlxgbkg kgakgvagrbgxzuqgsw,gk.bvrlu gbmrag.tgisabkf,gbmvb,
qmulgxzkqlgbkg.ugvgxzuvbgkh,gamugqvagabroogv.ougbkg.uvzgrbjggPkz,grl
bzsbm,gisabkfgragvgnrkoulbgvl gbzuvimuzksagaimkkofrabzuaajggAmu,g.t
orbbougvl gorbbou,gaorotgvl gslwuziurnu ,gaorwagrlgbmugpkkbgkpgmuz
vsbmkzrbt,g.sbgmvnrlxg.tgbmragxulbougvl gmsf.oug.uxrllrlx,gqrbmgbmu
.uluprbgkpgbrfu,gprhu gvl guabv.oramu grb,gamugbmulgslfvacagvgpszrksagvl 
btzvllrigikslbulvliu,gvxvrlabgqmrimgqugmvnuglkgfkzugbmugikszvxugkzgbmu
wkquzgakgfsimgvagbkgorpbgswgkszgutuajggQugauugmuz,gvbgunuztgbszl,gpkzirlx
vl gnrkovbrlxgbmugzsouagkpglvbszu:

gggggggggg“Sasaguppriviraarfsagzuzsfgkflrsfgfvxrabuzj”

gggggggggg[“Isabkfgragbmug.uabgfvabuzgkpgvoogbmrlxaj”
ggggggggggg--Worlt,gLvbjggMrabj,hhnrjg2j]

RgzupuzgbkgmuzgWovbk’agivnugrlgmragZuws.ori,gvl gbmugwmtarirvla,gqmkgak
kpbulgas.frbgbmugzuvaklagkpgbmurzgvzbgbkgmuzgvsbmkzrbt;gvagbmugabkztgkp
bmvbgcrlx,gqmkg.tgisabkfg.zksxmbgmragabkfvimgbkgbmvbgwvaa,gvagbkgornug.t
wkrakl,gvl gbmugfvr gbmvbgVo.uzbsagzuwkzbagbkgmvnugornu gswklgawr uzaj
Rlgbmvbgluqgqkzo gkpgbmugRl rua,gbmuzugquzugpksl gxzuvbglvbrkla,gvl grl
nuztg rppuzrlxgiorfvbua,gqmkgquzugkpgbmugavfug rub,gfv ugwzknrarklgkp
bmuf,gvl gpu gbmufgpkzgbmurzgbv.oua;gvagvoak,gbmutg r gxzvaamkwwuza,
friu,gordvz a,gvl g.vba;gvl grlgvgbrfugkpgaivzirbtgkpgasimg uorivirua,gv
bkv gqvagako gpkzgarhgizkqla,gvoogqmrimgbmutgikkc,gvl g ramgswgqrbm
aunuzvogavsiuajggBmuzugquzugvoakgkbmuzagpksl ,gbkgqmkfgkszg rub,gvl gbmu
pouamgquguvb,gquzugnulkfksagvl gfkzbvo:

gggggggggg“Iklasubs rlragfvxlvgnraguab:gwuzlkibvlbgnulvbkzuagrlglrnu:
ggggggggggrlgfklbr.sagszrgaugwvbrslbsz:gwsxroua,givuabr.sagiklbsar,
gggggggggglugrlxufraislbgesr ufj”

ggggg[“Bmugwkquzgkpgisabkfgragnuztgxzuvb:gmslbafulgqroogorugksbgvoo
ggggglrxmbgrlgbmugalkq,gkzgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ug.szlu gswg.tgbmugasl
gggggklgbmugfkslbvrla;g.khuza,gmszbg.tgbmugivuabsa,glunuzgsbbuzgv
gggggxzkvlj”--Iriuzk,gBsaij,grrjg17]

Bmuaugabzvlxuguhvfwouagqrooglkbgvwwuvzgakgabzvlxugrpgqugiklar uzgqmvbgqu
mvnugkz rlvztguhwuzruliugkp,gmkqgfsimgisabkfgabswupruagkszgaulauajggQu
luu glkbgxkgbkgqmvbgragzuwkzbu gkpgbmugwukwougv.ksbgbmugivbvzvibagkpgbmu
Lrou;gvl gqmvbgwmrokakwmuzag.uorunugkpgbmugfsarigkpgbmugawmuzua,gbmvbgbmu
.k ruagkpgbmkaugirziouag.urlxgakor gvl gafkkbm,gvl gikfrlxgbkgbksimgvl 
zs.gswklgklugvlkbmuz,givllkbgpvrogkpgizuvbrlxgvgfvznuooksagmvzfklt,gbmu
imvlxuagvl giv uliuagkpgqmrimgivsaugbmugzunkosbrklagvl g vliuagkpgbmu
abvza;g.sbgbmvbgbmugmuvzrlxgaulaugkpgvoogizuvbszuagmuzug.uokq,g.urlx
slrnuzavoot,gorcugbmvbgkpgbmugUxtwbrvla,g uvpulu ,gvl gabswupru gqrbmgbmu
iklbrlsvoglkrau,givllkb,gmkqgxzuvbgakunuz,gwuziurnugrb--[Bmragwvaavxugra
bvculgpzkfgIriuzk,g“ zuvfgkpgAirwrk”;gauugmrag ugZuws.oriv,gnrjggRRjggBmu
Uxtwbrvlagquzugavr gbkg.ugabsllu g.tgbmuglkraugkpgbmugIvbvzvibaj]--
Afrbma,gfroouza,gwuqbuzuza,gpkzxuful,gvl gvzfkszuzagikso glunuzg.ugv.ou
bkgornugrlgbmugwuzwubsvoglkraugkpgbmurzgkqlgbzv ua,g r grbgabzrcugbmurz
uvzagqrbmgbmugavfugnrkouliugbmvbgrbg kuagkszaj

Ftgwuzpsfu g ks.oubgxzvbrpruagftgkqlgaiulbgvbgprzab;g.sbgvpbuzgRgmvnu
qkzlgrbgbmzuug vtagbkxubmuz,g‘bragklotgwouvarlxgbkgbmug.tabvl uzajggBmra
ragtubgfkzugabzvlxu,gbmvbgisabkf,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgoklxgrlbuzfraarklagvl 
rlbuznvoa,gamkso gtubgmvnugbmugwkquzgbkgslrbugvl guabv.oramgbmuguppuibgkp
rbagrfwzuaarklagswklgkszgaulaua,gvagragfvlrpuabgrlgasimgvagornugluvzgslbk
abuuwouagvl gbmugpzuesulbglkraugkpgbmug.uooajggRgftauopgorugvbgmkfugrlgv
bkquz,gqmuzugunuztgfkzlrlxgvl gunulrlxgvgnuztgxzuvbg.uoogzrlxagksbgbmu
VnugFvzrv:gbmuglkraugamvcuagftgnuztgbkquz,gvl gvbgprzabgauufu 
rlaswwkzbv.ougbkgfu;g.sbgRgvfgakgsau gbkgrb,gbmvbgRgmuvzgrbgqrbmksbgvlt
fvlluzgkpgkppuliu,gvl gkpbulgqrbmksbgvqvcrlxgvbgrbj

Wovbk--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grrrjg38jgg.sbgmugqmkfgWovbkgiulaszu gqvaglkb
vg.ktgwovtrlxgvbglsba,g.sbgvgfvlgbmzkqrlxg riuj]--zuwzumul rlxgvg.ktgpkz
wovtrlxgvbglsba,g“Bmksgzuwzknuabgfu,”gavtagbmug.kt,g“pkzgvgnuztgorbbou
bmrlxj”gg“Isabkf,”gzuworu gWovbk,g“raglkgorbbougbmrlxj”ggRgprl gbmvbgksz
xzuvbuabgnriuag uzrnugbmurzgprzabgwzkwularbtgpzkfgkszgfkabgbul uz
rlpvlit,gvl gbmvbgkszgwzrlirwvogu sivbrklg uwul agswklgbmuglszauj
Fkbmuzagvzugfrxmbrotgwouvau gbkgauugvgimro gqzrbmugkppgbmugluicgkpgv
imricul,gkzgbkgwouvaugrbauopgqrbmgmszbrlxgvg kxgkzgvgivb;gvl gasimgqrau
pvbmuzagbmuzugvzugrlgbmugqkzo ,gqmkgokkcgswklgrbgvagvglkbv.ougfvzcgkpgv
fvzbrvogawrzrb,gqmulgbmutgmuvzgvgaklgfraivoo,gkzgauugmrfg kfrluuzgknuzgv
wkkzgwuvavlb,gkzgvgovicut,gbmvbg vzuaglkbgzuwot,glkzgbszlgvxvrl;gvl gv
xzuvbgarxlgkpgqrb,gqmulgbmutgauugmrfgimuvbgvl gknuzzuvimgmragwovtpuookq
.tgakfugfvorirksagbzuvimuztgvl g uiurbjggTubgbmuaugvzugbmugbzsugauu agvl 
zkkbagkpgizsuobt,gbtzvllt,gvl gbzuvakl;gbmutg.s gvl gwsbgksbgbmuzu,gvl 
vpbuzqvz agamkkbgswgnrxkzksaot,gvl gxzkqgbkgwzk rxrksag.soc,gisobrnvbu 
.tgisabkfjggVl grbgragvgnuztg vlxuzksagfrabvcugbkguhisaugbmuaugnrou
rliorlvbrklagswklgbmugbul uzluaagkpgbmurzgvxu,gvl gbmugbzrnrvorbtgkpgbmu
as.yuib:gprzab,grbgraglvbszugbmvbgawuvca,gqmkaug uiovzvbrklgragbmulgfkzu
arliuzu,gvl grlqvz gbmksxmbagfkzugsl raxsrau ,gvagrbgragfkzugquvcgvl 
tkslx;gauikl ot,gbmug upkzfrbtgkpgikdulvxug kuaglkbgiklarabglkzg uwul 
swklgbmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgizkqlagvl gwrla;g.sbgRgzvbmuzgmko grbgfkzu
ysabgbkgiklios ugbmsa:gqmtgamkso gmuglkbgikdulgrlgizkqlagarliugmug kuagrb
rlgwrla,gbmvlgvagbmutg k,gqmkgavtgbmutgklotgwovtgpkzgwrla,gbmutgqkso glkb
 kgrbgrpgrbgquzugpkzgfklut?ggImro zulgamkso givzupsootg.ugrlabzsibu gbk
v.mkzgnriuagpkzgbmurzgkqlgiklbuhbszu;gvl gbmuglvbszvog upkzfrbtgkpgbmkau
nriuagksxmbgakgbkg.ugzuwzuaulbu gbkgbmuf,gbmvbgbmutgfvtglkbgklotgvnkr 
bmufgrlgbmurzgvibrkla,g.sbguawuirvootgakgbkgv.kfrlvbugbmufgrlgbmurz
muvzba,gbmvbgbmugnuztgbmksxmbgamkso g.ugmvbupsogbkgbmuf,gqrbmgqmvbgfvac
akunuzgbmutgfvtg.ug raxsrau j

Rgclkqgnuztgquoo,gpkzgqmvbgikliuzlagftauop,gbmvbgpzkfgmvnrlxg.uulg.zksxmb
swgrlgftgimro mkk gbkgvgwovrlgvl gabzvrxmbpkzqvz gqvtgkpg uvorlx,gvl 
pzkfgmvnrlxgmv gvlgvnuzarklgbkgvoogfvlluzgkpgysxxorlxgvl gpksogwovtgrlgft
imro ramgawkzbagvl gzuizuvbrklag(vl ,grl uu ,grbgragbkg.uglkbu ,gbmvbgbmu
wovtagkpgimro zulgvzuglkbgwuzpkzfu grlgwovt,g.sbgvzugbkg.ugys xu grlgbmuf
vagbmurzgfkabgauzrksagvibrkla),gbmuzugraglkgxvfugakgafvoogqmuzurlgpzkfgft
kqlg.kakfglvbszvoot,gvl gqrbmksbgabs tgkzgul uvnksz,gRgmvnuglkbgvl
uhbzufugvnuzarklgpzkfg uiurbjggRgamsppougvl gisbgvl gfvcugvagfsimgiovbbuz
qrbmgbmugivz a,gvl gcuuwgvagabzribgviikslbgpkzgpvzbmrlxa,gvagrbgquzugpkz
 ks.ougwrabkoua;gqmulgqrllrlxgkzgokarlxgvxvrlabgftgqrpugvl g vsxmbuz,
‘bragrl rppuzulbgbkgfu,gvagqmulgRgwovtgrlgxkk guvzluabgqrbmgkbmuza,gpkz
zksl gasfajggVbgvoogbrfua,gvl grlgvoogwoviua,gftgkqlgutuagvzugaspprirulb
bkgokkcgbkgftgprlxuza;gRgvfglkbgakglvzzkqotgqvbimu g.tgvltgkbmuz,glurbmuz
ragbmuzugvltgRgmvnugfkzugzuawuibgbkj

Rgavqgbmugkbmuzg vt,gvbgftgkqlgmksau,gvgorbbougpuookq,gvglvbrnugkp
Lvlbua,g.kzlgqrbmksbgvzfa,gqmkgmvagakgquoogbvsxmbgmragpuubgbkgwuzpkzfgbmu
auznriuagmragmvl agamkso gmvnug klugmrf,gbmvbgbzsotgbmuaugmvnugmvop
pkzxkbbulgbmurzglvbszvogkppriu;gvl ,grl uu ,gbmugpuookqgivooagbmufgmra
mvl a;gqrbmgbmufgmugisbagvltbmrlx,gimvzxuagvl g raimvzxuagvgwrabko,
bmzuv agvgluu ou,gauqa,gqzrbua,gwsbagkppgmragmvb,gikf.agmragmuv ,gwovta
vbgivz agvl g riu,gvl gvoogbmragqrbmgvagfsimg uhbuzrbtgvagvltgkbmuzgikso 
 kgqmkgmv gfkzu,gvl gfkzugwzkwuzgorf.agbkgvaarabgmrfjggBmugfklutgRgxvnu
mrf--pkzgmugxvrlagmragornrlxg.tgamuqrlxgbmuaugpuvba--mugbkkcgrlgmragpkkb,
vagqug kgrlgkszgmvl jggRgmvnugauulgvlkbmuzgqmk,g.urlxgtubgvg.kt,
pokszramu gvgbqk-mvl u gaqkz ,gvl ,grpgRgfvtgakgavt,gmvl ou gvgmvo.uz 
qrbmgbmugfuzugfkbrklagkpgmragluicgvl gamkso uzagpkzgqvlbgkpgmvl a;gbkaau 
bmufgrlbkgbmugvrz,gvl givsxmbgbmufgvxvrl,g vzbu gvg vxxuz,gvl gizvicu gv
qmrwgvagquoogvagvltgikvimfvlgrlgPzvliuj

.sbgbmuguppuibagkpgisabkfgvzugfsimgfkzugfvlrpuabgrlgbmugabzvlxu
rfwzuaarklagamugrfwzrlbagrlgkszgfrl a,gqmuzugamugfuubagqrbmgouaa
zuarabvliujggQmvbgmvagamuglkbgbmugwkquzgbkgrfwkaugswklgkszgys xfulbagvl 
.uorupa?ggRagbmuzugvltgakgpvlbvabrigkwrlrklg(kfrbbrlxgbmugxzkaa
rfwkabszuagkpgzuorxrkla,gqrbmgqmrimgqugauugakgfvltgxzuvbglvbrkla,gvl gak
fvltgsl uzabvl rlxgful,gakgabzvlxuotg.uakbbu ;gpkzgbmrag.urlxg.utkl gbmu
zuvimgkpgmsfvlgzuvakl,gvltguzzkzgragfkzuguhisav.ougrlgasimgvagvzuglkb
ul su ,gbmzksxmgbmug rnrlug.kslbt,gqrbmgvlguhbzvkz rlvztgroosfrlvbrkl
pzkfgv.knu),g.sb,gkpgkbmuzgkwrlrkla,gvzugbmuzugvltgakguhbzvnvxvlb,gbmvb
amugmvaglkbgwovlbu gvl guabv.oramu gpkzgovqagrlgbmkaugwvzbagkpgbmugqkzo 
swklgqmrimgamugmvag.uulgwouvau gbkguhuziraugmuzgwkquz?ggVl gbmuzupkzu
bmvbgvlirulbguhiovfvbrklgqvaguhiuu rlxgysab:

ggggggg“Lklgws ubgwmtarisf,gr guabgawuisovbkzufgnulvbkzufesuglvbszvu,
ggggggggv.gvlrfragiklasubs rlugrf.sbragwubuzugbuabrfklrsfgnuzrbvbra?”

ggggg[“Ragrbglkbgvgamvfugpkzgvglvbszvogwmrokakwmuz,gbmvbgra,gpkzgvl
gggggk.auznuzgvl gmslbuzgkpglvbszu,gbkgauucgbuabrfkltgkpgbmugbzsbmgpzkf
gggggfrl agwzuwkaauaau g.tgisabkf?”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grjg30j]

Rg kg.uorunu,gbmvbglkgakgv.asz gkzgzr risoksagpvlitgivlgulbuzgrlbkgmsfvl
rfvxrlvbrkl,gbmvbg kuaglkbgfuubgqrbmgakfuguhvfwougkpgws.origwzvibriu,gvl 
bmvb,giklauesulbot,gkszgzuvaklg kuaglkbgxzksl gvl g.vicgswjggBmuzugvzu
wukwou,gvfklxabgqmkfgrbgragbmugpvamrklgbkgbszlgbmurzg.vicagswklgmrfgbmut
avosbu,gvl glunuzgokkcgswklgbmugfvlgbmutgrlbul gbkgmklkszjggBmuzugragv
woviu,gqmuzu,gqmulunuzgbmugcrlxgawrba,gbmugxzuvbuabgov ruagkpgmragikszb
wsbgksbgbmurzgmvl agbkgzuiurnugrb;gvl gvlkbmuzglvbrkl,gqmuzugbmugfkab
ufrlulbgwuzaklagv.ksbgmrfgabkkwgbkgbvcugswgmragkz szugrlgvgorlulgiokbmj
Oubgsagmuzugabuvogzkkfgbkgrlauzbgvgabkztj

VgPzulimgxulboufvlgqvagvoqvtagqklbgbkg.okqgmraglkaugqrbmgmragprlxuzag(v
bmrlxgnuztgfsimgvxvrlabgkszgpvamrkl),gvl gmugysabrptrlxgmrfauopgpkzgak
 krlx,gvl gmugqvagvgfvlgpvfksagpkzgwouvavlbgzuwvzbuua,gmugvacu gfu,gqmvb
wzrnrouxugbmragprobmtguhizufulbgmv ,gbmvbgqugfsabgivzztgv.ksbgsagvgprlu
mvl cuzimrupgbkgzuiurnugrb,gvl ,gqmrimgqvagfkzu,gvpbuzqvz agbkgovwgrb
ivzupsootgsw,gvl givzztgrbgvoog vtgv.ksbgrlgkszgwkicuba,gqmrim,gmugavr ,
ikso glkbg.sbg.ugfsimgfkzuglvsauksagvl gkppularnu,gbmvlgbkgauugrbgbmzkql
vqvt,gvagqug r gvoogkbmuzgunvisvbrklajggRgpksl gbmvbgqmvbgmugavr gqvaglkb
vobkxubmuzgqrbmksbgzuvakl,gvl g.tg.urlxgpzuesulbotgrlgmragikfwvlt,gbmvb
aoknulotgvibrklgkpgmragqvagvbgovabgxzkqlgpvfrorvzgbkgfu;gqmrim
lunuzbmuouaagqugfvcugvgpviugvb,gqmulgqugmuvzgrbgzuwkzbu gkpgvlkbmuz
ikslbztjggFrzviouagvwwuvzgbkg.ugak,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgrxlkzvliugkpglvbszu,
vl glkbgviikz rlxgbkgbmuguaauliugkpglvbszugbmugiklbrlsvootg.urlx
viisabkfu gbkgvltbmrlx,g.orl agbmugutugkpgkszgys xfulbjgg.vz.vzrvlagvzu
lkgfkzugvgqkl uzgbkgsa,gbmvlgqugvzugbkgbmuf;glkzgqrbmgvltgfkzugzuvakl,gva
unuztgklugqkso giklpuaa,grpgvpbuzgmvnrlxgbzvnuoou gknuzgbmkaugzufkbu
uhvfwoua,gfulgikso gaubbougbmufauonuagbkgzupouibgswkl,gvl gzrxmbotgbk
iklpuzgbmuf,gqrbmgbmurzgkqljggMsfvlgzuvaklgragvgbrlibszugvofkabguesvoot
rlpsau grlbkgvoogkszgkwrlrklagvl gfvlluza,gkpgqmvbgpkzfgakunuzgbmutgvzu;
rlprlrbugrlgfvbbuz,grlprlrbugrlg rnuzarbtjgg.sbgRgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuibj

Bmuzugvzugwukwoua,gqmuzu,gmragqrpugvl gimro zulguhiuwbu ,glkgklugawuvca
bkgbmugcrlxg.sbgbmzksxmgvgbs.ujggRlgklugvl gbmugavfuglvbrkl,gbmugnrzxrla
 raiknuzgbmkaugwvzbagbmvbgfk uabtgamkso gwuzasv ugbmufgbkgmr u,gvl gbmu
fvzzru gqkfulgivzupsootgiknuzgvl gikliuvogbmufjggBkgqmrim,gbmragisabkf,
rlgvlkbmuzgwoviu,gmvagakfugzuovbrkl,gqmuzugimvabrbt,g.sbgrlgfvzzrvxu,gra
kpglkguabuuf,gpkzgslfvzzru gqkfulgfvtgwzkabrbsbugbmufauonuagbkgvagfvltgva
bmutgwouvau,gvl g.urlxgxkbgqrbmgimro ,gfvtgovqpsootgbvcugwmtari,grlgbmu
arxmbgkpgunuztgklu,gbkg uabzktgbmurzgpzsrbjggVl ,grlgvlkbmuzgwoviu,grpgv
bzv uafvlgfvzzt,gvoogkpgbmugavfugikl rbrkl,gqmkgvzugrlnrbu gbkgbmu
qu  rlx,gorugqrbmgbmug.zr ug.upkzugmrf;gvl gbmugxzuvbuzglsf.uzgkpgbmuf
bmuzugra,gbmugxzuvbuzgragmuzgmklksz,gvl gbmugkwrlrklgkpgmuzgv.rorbtgvl 
abzulxbm:grpgvlgkppriuzgfvzzt,g‘bragbmugavfu,gbmugavfugqrbmgvgov.kszuz,
kzgklugkpgfuvlgikl rbrkl;g.sbgbmulgrbg.uoklxagbkgbmugokz gkpgbmugwoviugbk
wuzpkzfgbmvbgkppriu;gvl gtubgvgaunuzugoktvobtg szrlxgfvzzrvxugra
vpbuzqvz gabzribotgulykrlu jggBmuzugvzugwoviuagqmuzug.zkbmuoagkpgtkslx
fulgvzugcuwbgpkzgbmugwouvaszugkpgqkful;gqmuzugbmugqrnuagxkgbkgqvzgvagquoo
vagbmugmsa.vl a,gvl glkbgklotgamvzugrlgbmug vlxuzagkpg.vbbou,g.sb,
fkzuknuz,grlgbmugmklkszagkpgikffvl jggKbmuza,gqmuzugbmutgquvzgzrlxaglkb
klotgbmzksxmgbmurzglkaua,gorwa,gimuuca,gvl gklgbmurzgbkua,g.sbgvoak
qurxmbtgxrffvoagkpgxko gbmzsabgbmzksxmgbmurzgwvwagvl g.sbbkica;gqmuzu,grl
uvbrlx,gbmutgqrwugbmurzgprlxuzagswklgbmurzgbmrxma,gxulrbkzrua,gvl gbmu
akouagkpgbmurzgpuub:gqmuzugimro zulgvzuguhios u ,gvl g.zkbmuzagvl 
luwmuqagklotgrlmuzrb;gvl guoauqmuzu,gluwmuqagklot,gavnrlxgrlgbmu
asiiuaarklgkpgbmugwzrliu:gqmuzu,gpkzgbmugzuxsovbrklgkpgikffslrbtgrlgxkk a
vl guabvbua,gk.auznu grlgbmugikslbzt,giuzbvrlgaknuzurxlgfvxrabzvbuagmvnu
ikffrbbu gbkgbmufgbmugslrnuzavogimvzxugvl gknuzauurlxgkpgbmugvxzrisobszu,
vl g rabzr.sbrklgkpgbmugpzsrba,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugluiuaarbtgkpgunuztgklu
qmuzugbmutgovfulbgbmug uvbmgkpgimro zul,gvl gpuvabgvbgbmug uiuvaugkpgko 
ful:gqmuzugbmutgorugbulgkzgbquonugrlgvg.u ,gfulgvl gbmurzgqrnuagbkxubmuz:
qmuzugqkful,gqmkaugmsa.vl agikfugbkgnrkoulbgul a,gfvtgfvzztgvxvrl,gvl 
kbmuzaglkb:gqmuzugbmugikl rbrklgkpgqkfulgragokkcu gswklgqrbmgasim
iklbufwb,gbmvbgbmutgcroogvoogbmuglvbrnugpufvoua,gvl g.stgqrnuagkpgbmurz
lurxm.kszagbkgaswwotgbmurzgsau;gqmuzugmsa.vl agfvtgzuws rvbugbmurzgqrnua,
qrbmksbgamkqrlxgvltgivsau,g.sbgqrnuagivllkbgwvzbgpzkfgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gpkz
qmvbgivsaugakunuz;gqmuzugmsa.vl agfvtgauoogbmurzgqrnuagrlgivaugkp
abuzrorbt;gqmuzugbmutg.krogbmug.k ruagkpgbmurzg uv ,gvl gvpbuzqvz gwksl 
bmufgbkgvgwsow,gqmrimgbmutgfrhgqrbmgbmurzgqrlu,gvl g zrlcgrb;gqmuzugbmu
fkabgiknubu gauwsobszugragbkg.uguvbulg.tg kxa,gvl guoauqmuzug.tg.rz a;
qmuzugbmutg.uorunugbmugaksoagkpgbmug.ouaau gornugrlgvoogfvlluzgkp
or.uzbt,grlg uorxmbpsogpruo a,gpszlramu gqrbmgvoogakzbagkpg uorivirua,
vl gbmvbgrbgragbmuaugaksoa,gzuwuvbrlxgbmugqkz agqugsbbuz,gqmrimgqugivoo
Uimk;gqmuzugbmutgprxmbgrlgbmugqvbuz,gvl gamkkbgbmurzgvzzkqagqrbmgbmugfkab
fkzbvogvrf,gaqrffrlx;gqmuzu,gpkzgvgarxlgkpgas.yuibrkl,gbmutgorpbgswgbmurz
amkso uza,gvl gmvlxg kqlgbmurzgmuv a;gqmuzugbmutgwsbgkppgbmurzgamkuagqmul
bmutgulbuzgbmugcrlx’agwvoviu;gqmuzugbmuguslsima,gqmkgbvcugimvzxugkpgbmu
avizu gqkful,gmvnu,gfkzuknuz,gbmurzgorwagvl glkauagisbgkpp,gbmvbgbmutgfvt
lkbg.ugoknu ;gqmuzugbmugwzruabagwsbgksbgbmurzgkqlgutua,gbkg.ug.ubbuz
viesvrlbu gqrbmgbmurzg ufkla,gvl gbmug.ubbuzgbkgzuiurnugbmurzgkzvioua;
qmuzugunuztgklugfvcuagbkgmrfauopgvg urbtgkpgqmvbgmugorcuag.uab;gbmu
mslbuzgkpgvgorklgkzgvgpkh,gbmugpramuzgkpgakfugpram;gr koagkpgunuztgmsfvl
vibrklgkzgwvaarkl;grlgqmrimgwoviu,gbmugasl,gbmugfkkl,gvl gbmuguvzbmgvzu
bmug‘wzrlirwvog urbrua,gvl gbmugpkzfgkpgbvcrlxgvlgkvbmgra,gbkgbksimgbmu
uvzbm,gokkcrlxgswgbkgmuvnul;gqmuzug.kbmgpouamgvl gpramgraguvbulgzvq;
qmuzugbmugxzuvbuabgkvbmgbmutgbvcugra,gbkgaquvzg.tgbmuglvfugkpgakfug uv 
wuzaklgkpgzuwsbvbrkl,govtrlxgbmurzgmvl gswklgmragbkf.;gqmuzugbmu
luqtuvz’agxrpbgbmugcrlxgaul agunuztgtuvzgbkgbmugwzrliua,gmragnvaavoa,gra
przu,gqmrimg.urlxg.zksxmb,gvoogbmugko gprzugragwsbgksb,gvl gbmu
lurxm.kszrlxgwukwougvzug.ksl gbkgpubimgkpgbmugluq,gunuztgklugpkz
bmufauonua,gswklgwvrlgkpgmrxmgbzuvakl;gqmuzu,gqmulgbmugcrlx,gbkg.ubvcu
mrfauopgqmkootgbkg unkbrkl,gzubrzuagpzkfgmragv frlrabzvbrklg(qmrimgkpbul
pvooagksb),gmragluhbgasiiuaakzgragk.orxu gbkg kgbmugavfu,gvl gbmugzrxmb
kpgbmugcrlx kfg unkonuagbkgbmugbmrz grlgasiiuaarkl:gqmuzugbmutgnvztgbmu
pkzfgkpgxknuzlfulb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugauufrlxgluiuaarbtgkpgvppvrza:g uwkau
bmugcrlxgqmulgbmutgbmrlcgxkk ,gas.abrbsbrlxgiuzbvrlguo uzagbkgxknuzlgrl
mragabuv ,gvl gakfubrfuagbzvlapuzzrlxgrbgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgbmu
ikffklvorbt:gqmuzugfulgvl gqkfulgvzug.kbmgirzisfirau gvl gvoakg.vwbrdu :
qmuzugbmugako ruz,gqmkgrlgklugkzgaunuzvogulxvxufulba,gmvag.uulgak
pkzbslvbugvagbkgwzuaulbgaunulgkpgbmugulufrua’gmuv agbkgbmugcrlx,gragfv u
lk.ou:gqmuzugbmutgornugrlgbmvbgzvzugvl gslakirv.ougkwrlrklgkpgbmu
fkzbvorbtgkpgbmugakso:gqmuzugbmugqkfulgvzug uornuzu gqrbmksbgwvrlgkz
puvz:gqmuzugbmugqkfulgquvzgikwwuzgouxxrlxagswklg.kbmgouxa,gvl grpgvgoksau
.rbugbmuf,gvzug.ksl grlgfvxlvlrfrbtgbkg.rbugbmufgvxvrl,gvl g vzuglkb
fvzzt,gbroogprzabgbmutgmvnugfv ugbmurzgcrlxgvgbul uzgkpgbmurzgnrzxrlrbt,
rpgmugwouvaugbkgviiuwbgrb:gqmuzugbmugkz rlvztgqvtgkpgavosbvbrklgrag.t
wsbbrlxgvgprlxuzg kqlgbkgbmuguvzbm,gvl gbmulgwkrlbrlxgrbgswgbkqvz 
muvnul:gqmuzugfulgivzztg.sz ulagswklgbmurzgmuv a,gvl gqkfulgklgbmurz
amkso uza;gqmuzugbmugqkfulgfvcugqvbuzgabvl rlx,gvl gbmugfulgaesvbbrlx:
qmuzugbmutgaul gbmurzg.okk grlgbkculgkpgpzrul amrw,gvl gkppuzgrliulaugbk
bmugfulgbmutgqkso gmklksz,gorcugxk a:gqmuzu,glkbgklotgbkgbmugpkszbm,g.sb
rlgvltgkbmuzgzufkbug uxzuu,gcrl zu gvzuglkbgwuzfrbbu gbkgfvzzt:gqmuzugbmu
imro zulgvzugpkszgtuvzagvbglszau,gvl gkpbulgbquonu;grlgqmrimgwoviu,gvoak,
rbgragviikslbu gfkzbvogbkgxrnugbmugimro gasicgbmugprzabg vtgvpbuzgrbgra
.kzl:gqmuzugbmugikzzuibrklgkpgbmugfvougimro zulgragwuisorvzotg uarxlu gbk
bmugpvbmuza,gvl gbkgbmugfkbmuzagkpgbmugxrzoa;gbmugwslramfulbg.urlxgbk
mvlxgbmufg.tgbmugmuuoagrlgbmugafkcu:gqmuzugbmutgirzisfiraugbmugqkful:
qmuzugbmutguvbgvoogakzbagkpgmuz.a,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgaizswougbmvlgkpgbmu
.v luaagkpgbmugafuoo:gqmuzugvoogbmrlxagvzugkwulgbmugprluabgmksaua,
pszlramu grlgbmugzrimuabgfvlluz,gqrbmksbg kkza,gqrl kqa,gbzslca,gkz
imuabagbkgokic,gvgbmrupg.urlxgbmuzugwslramu g ks.ougqmvbgbmutgvzugrl
kbmuzgwoviua:gqmuzugbmutgizvicgoriugqrbmgbmurzgbuubmgorcugfklcuta,gvl 
v.mkzgbkgauugbmufgcroou gqrbmgklu’aglvroa:gqmuzugrlgvoogbmurzgornuagbmut
lurbmuzgisbgbmurzgmvrzglkzgwvzugbmurzglvroa;gvl ,grlgvlkbmuzgwoviu,gwvzu
bmkaugkpgbmugzrxmbgmvl gklot,goubbrlxgbmugoupbgxzkqgpkzgkzlvfulbgvl 
.zvnuzt:gqmuzugbmutgasppuzgbmugmvrzgklgbmugzrxmbgar ugbkgxzkqgvagoklxgva
rbgqroo,gvl gamvnugbmugkbmuz;gvl grlgbmuglurxm.kszrlxgwzknrliua,gakfugoub
bmurzgmvrzgxzkqgoklxg.upkzu,gvl gakfug.umrl ,gamvnrlxgiokaugbmugzuab:
qmuzugwvzulbagoubgksbgbmurzgimro zul,gvl gmsa.vl agbmurzgqrnua,gbkgbmurz
xsuabagbkgmrzu:gqmuzugvgfvlgfvtgxubgmragkqlgfkbmuzgqrbmgimro ,gvl 
pvbmuzagfvcugsaugkpgbmurzgkqlg vsxmbuzagkzgakla,gqrbmksbgaivl vo:gqmuzu,
vbgbmurzgakouflgpuvaba,gbmutgrlbuzimvlxuv.otgoul gbmurzgimro zulgbkgklu
vlkbmuz,gqrbmksbgvltgiklar uzvbrklgkpgluvzluaagkpg.okk jggRlgklugwoviu,
fulgpuu gswklgmsfvlgpouam;grlgvlkbmuz,g‘bragzuwsbu gvgwrksagkppriugpkzgv
fvlgbkgcroogmragpvbmuzgvbgvgiuzbvrlgvxu;guoauqmuzu,gbmugpvbmuzag rawkau
kpgbmurzgimro zul,gqmroabgtubgrlgbmurzgfkbmuza’gqkf.a,gakfugbkg.u
wzuauznu gvl givzupsootg.zksxmbgsw,gvl gkbmuzagbkg.ugv.vl klu gkzgfv u
vqvtjggUoauqmuzugbmugko gmsa.vl agoul gbmurzgqrnuagbkgtkslxgful;gvl grl
vlkbmuzgwoviugbmutgvzugrlgikffklgqrbmksbgkppuliu;grlgklugwoviu
wvzbrisovzot,gbmugqkfulgbvcugrbgpkzgvgfvzcgkpgmklkszgbkgmvnugvagfvltgxvt
pzrlxu gbvaauoagvbgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmurzgxvzfulb,gvagbmutgmvnugovrlgqrbm
aunuzvogfuljggFkzuknuz,gmvaglkbgisabkfgfv ugvgzuws.origkpgqkful
auwvzvbuotg.tgbmufauonua?gmvagrbglkbgwsbgvzfagrlbkgbmurzgmvl a,gvl gfv u
bmufgzvraugvzfruagvl gprxmbg.vbboua?ggVl g kuagamuglkb,g.tgmuzgkql
wzuiuwb,grlabzsibgbmugfkabgrxlkzvlbgnsoxvz,gvl gfvcugbmufgwuzpuibgrl
bmrlxagqmrimgvoogbmugwmrokakwmtgrlgbmugqkzo gikso glunuzg.uvbgrlbkgbmu
muv agkpgbmugqrauabgful?ggPkzgqugclkqgulbrzuglvbrkla,gqmuzug uvbmgqvaglkb
klotg uawrau ,g.sbgulbuzbvrlu gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgbzrsfwm;gqmuzugimro zul
kpgaunulgtuvzagko gasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ugqmrwwu gbkg uvbm,gqrbmksb
imvlxrlxgikslbulvliu;gqmuzugzrimuagquzugrlgasimgiklbufwb,gbmvbgbmu
fuvluabgirbrdulgqkso glkbgmvnug urxlu gbkgabkkwgbkgbvcugswgvgwszaugkp
izkqlajggVl gqugclkqgzuxrkla,gnuztgpzsrbpsogrlgvoogfvlluzgkpgwzknrarkla,
qmuzu,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gbmugfkabgkz rlvztg rub,gvl gbmvbgbmutgvzugfkab
wouvau gqrbm,gragklotg.zuv ,gizuaaua,gvl gqvbuzjgg r glkbgisabkf,
fkzuknuz,gqkzcgbmvbgfrzviougrlgImrkagbmvb,grlgaunulgmsl zu gtuvza,grbgqva
lunuzgclkqlgbmvbgunuzgfvr gkzgqrpugikffrbbu gvltgvibgbkgbmugwzuys riugkp
muzgmklksz?

Bkgiklios u;gbmuzugraglkbmrlx,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgamug kuaglkb,gkzgfvt
lkbg k;gvl gbmuzupkzu,gqrbmgnuztgxkk gzuvaklgrbgragbmvbgWrl vzgivooagmuz
bmugzsouzgkpgbmugqkzo jggMugbmvbgqvagauulgbkg.uvbgmragpvbmuz,gvl 
zuwzknu gpkzgakg krlx,gfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgrbgqvagbmugisabkfgkpgbmurz
pvfrot;gbmvb,grlgorcugfvlluz,gmragpvbmuzgmv g.uvbulgmragxzvl pvbmuz,gmra
xzvl pvbmuzgmragxzuvb-xzvl pvbmuz,g“Vl gbmra,”gavtagmu,gwkrlbrlxgbkgmra
akl,g“qmulgmugikfuagbkgftgvxu,gamvoog.uvbgfuj”ggVl gbmugpvbmuz,gqmkfgbmu
aklg zvxxu gvl gmvsou gvoklxgbmugabzuuba,gikffvl u gmrfgbkgabkwgvbgv
iuzbvrlg kkz,gpkzgmugmrfauop,gmugavr ,gmv g zvxxu gmragpvbmuzglkgpvzbmuz,
bmvbg.urlxgbmugsbfkabgorfrbgkpgbmugmuzu rbvztgksbzvxugbmugaklagsau gbk
wzvibraugswklgbmugpvbmuzagrlgbmurzgpvfrotjggRbgragvagfsimg.tgisabkfgva
rlprzfrbt,gavtagVzrabkbou,gbmvbgqkfulgbuvzgbmurzgmvrz,g.rbugbmurzglvroa,
vl guvbgikvoagvl guvzbm,gvl gfkzug.tgisabkfgbmvlglvbszugbmvbgfulgv.sau
bmufauonuagqrbmgklugvlkbmuzj

Bmugovqagkpgiklairuliu,gqmrimgqugwzubul gbkg.ug uzrnu gpzkfglvbszu,
wzkiuu gpzkfgisabkf;gunuztgklu,gmvnrlxgvlgrlqvz gnuluzvbrklgpkzgbmu
kwrlrklagvl gfvlluzagvwwzknu gvl gzuiurnu gvfklxabgmragkqlgwukwou,
ivllkb,gqrbmksbgnuztgxzuvbgzuosibvliu,g uwvzbgpzkfgbmuf,glkzgvwwot
mrfauopgbkgbmufgqrbmksbgvwwovsaujggRlgbrfuagwvab,gqmulgbmkaugkpgIzubu
qkso giszaugvltgklu,gbmutgwzvtu gbmugxk agbkgulxvxugmrfgrlgakfugroo
isabkfjgg.sbgbmugwzrlirwvoguppuibgkpgrbagwkquzgra,gakgbkgaurdugvl 
ulalvzugsa,gbmvbgrbgragmvz otgrlgsagbkg raulxvxugkszauonuagpzkfgrba
xzrwu,gkzgakgbkgikfugbkgkszauonua,gvagbkgiklar uzgkpgvl gbkgqurxmgbmu
bmrlxagrbgulykrlajggBkgavtgbmugbzsbm,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgqugasicgrbgrlgqrbm
kszgfroc,gvl gbmvbgbmugpviugkpgbmugqkzo gwzuaulbagrbauopgrlgbmragwkabszu
bkgkszgprzabgarxmb,grbgauufagvagrpgqugquzug.kzlgswklgikl rbrklgbkgpkookq
klgbmragbzvic;gvl gbmugikffklgpvliruagbmvbgqugprl grlgzuwsbugunuztqmuzu
v.ksbgsa,gvl grlpsau grlbkgkszgfrl agqrbmgbmugauu gkpgkszgpvbmuza,gvwwuvz
bkg.ugbmugfkabgslrnuzavogvl gxulsrlu;gpzkfgqmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaa,gbmvb
qmvbunuzgragkppgbmugmrlxuagkpgisabkf,grag.uorunu gbkg.ugvoakgkppgbmu
mrlxuagkpgzuvakl;gmkqgslzuvaklv.otgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gXk gclkqaj

Rp,gvagqugqmkgabs tgkszauonuagmvnugouvzlu gbkg k,gunuztgklugqmkgmuvzagv
xkk gaulbuliu,gqkso grffu rvbuotgiklar uzgmkqgrbg kuagrlgvltgqvtgbksim
mragkqlgwzrnvbugikliuzl,gunuztgklugqkso gprl ,gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgakgfsimgv
xkk gavtrlx,gvagvgaunuzugovamgbkgbmugkz rlvztgabswr rbtgkpgmragkql
ys xfulb:g.sbgfulgzuiurnugbmugwzuiuwbagvl gv fklrbrklagkpgbzsbm,gva
 rzuibu gbkgbmugikffklgakzb,gvl glunuzgbkgbmufauonua;gvl grlabuv gkp
vwwotrlxgbmufgbkgbmurzgkqlgfvlluza,g kgklotgnuztgrxlkzvlbotgvl 
slwzkprbv.otgikffrbgbmufgbkgfufkztjgg.sbgoubgsagzubszlgbkgbmugufwrzugkp
isabkfj

Asimgwukwougvagmvnug.uulg.zu gswgbkgor.uzbt,gvl gas.yuibgbkglkgkbmuz
 kfrlrklg.sbgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzgkqlgqroo,gokkcgswklgvoogkbmuzgpkzfgkp
xknuzlfulbgvagfklabzksagvl giklbzvztgbkglvbszujggBmkaugqmkgvzugrlszu gbk
fklvzimtg kgbmugavfu;gvl gqmvbgkwwkzbslrbtgakunuzgpkzbslugwzuaulbagbmuf
qrbmgbkgimvlxu,gunulgbmul,gqmulgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabg rpprisobruagbmutgmvnu
 raulxvxu gbmufauonuagpzkfgklugfvabuz,gbmvbgqvagbzks.ouakfugvl gxzrunksa
bkgbmuf,gbmutgwzuaulbotgzsl,gqrbmgbmugavfug rpprisobrua,gbkgizuvbu
vlkbmuz;g.urlxgslv.ougbkgbvcugrlbkgmvbzu gas.yuibrklgrbauopj

‘Brag.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgisabkf,gbmvbgunuztgklugragiklbulbgqrbmgbmugwoviu
qmuzugmugragwovlbu g.tglvbszu;gvl gbmugMrxmovl uzagkpgAikbovl glkgfkzu
wvlbgvpbuzgBkszvrlu;gbmvlgbmugAitbmrvlagvpbuzgBmuaavotjgg vzrsagvacrlx
iuzbvrlgXzuucagqmvbgbmutgqkso gbvcugbkgvaasfugbmugisabkfgkpgbmugRl rvla,
kpguvbrlxgbmug uv g.k ruagkpgbmurzgpvbmuzag(pkzgbmvbgqvagbmurzgsau,
.uorunrlxgbmutgikso glkbgxrnugbmufgvg.ubbuzglkzgfkzuglk.ougauwsobszugbmvl
bkg.sztgbmufgrlgbmurzgkqlg.k rua),gbmutgfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbglkbmrlxgrlgbmu
qkzo gamkso gmrzugbmufgbkg kgrb;g.sbgmvnrlxgvoakgbzru gbkgwuzasv ugbmu
Rl rvlagbkgouvnugbmurzgisabkf,gvl ,gvpbuzgbmugXzuucgfvlluz,gbkg.szlgbmu
.k ruagkpgbmurzgpvbmuza,gbmutgikliurnu gvgabroogxzuvbuzgmkzzkzgvbgbmu
fkbrklj--[Muzk kbsa,grrrjg38j]--Unuztgklug kuagbmugavfu,gpkzgsaugnuroa
pzkfgsagbmugbzsugvawuibgkpgbmrlxaj

ggggggggg“Lrogv ukgfvxlsf,gluigbvfgfrzv.rougesr esvf
ggggggggggWzrlirwrk,gesk glklgfrlsvlbgfrzvzruzgkfluagWvsoovbrfj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgvbgprzabgakgxzvl ,gakgv frzv.ou,gqmrimg.tg uxzuua
gggggwukwoug kglkbgzuxvz gqrbmgouaagv frzvbrklj”--Osizubrsa,grrjg1027]

Bvcrlxgswklgfugkliugbkgysabrptgakfubmrlxgrlgsaugvfklxabgsa,gvl gbmvbgqva
zuiurnu gqrbmgv.akosbugvsbmkzrbtgpkzgvgxzuvbgfvltgouvxsuagzksl gv.ksbgsa,
vl glkbgiklbulb,gvagfulgikffklotg k,gbkguabv.oramgrbgklotg.tgpkziugkpgovq
vl guhvfwou,g.sbgrlesrzrlxgabroogpszbmuzgrlbkgrbagkzrxrl,gRgpksl gbmu
pksl vbrklgakgquvc,gbmvbgRgqmkgfv ugrbgftg.sarluaagbkgiklprzfgkbmuza,gqva
nuztgluvzg.urlxg raavbrapru gftauopjgg‘Brag.tgbmragzuiurwbgbmvbgWovbk
--[Ovqa,gnrrrjgg6j]--sl uzbvcuagbkgiszugbmugsllvbszvogvl gwzuwkabuzksa
oknuagkpgmragbrfu,gvagklugqmrimgmuguabuufagkpgaknuzurxlgnrzbsu,glvfuot,
bmvbgbmugws.origkwrlrklgikl uflagbmuf;gbmvbgbmugwkuba,gvl gvoogkbmuz
akzbagkpgqzrbuza,gzuovbugmkzzr.ougabkzruagkpgbmuf;gvgzuirwu,g.tgnrzbsugkp
qmrimgbmugfkabg.uvsbrpsog vsxmbuzaglkgfkzugvooszugbmurzgpvbmuza’gosab;
lkzg.zkbmuza,gkpgbmugprluabgamvwugvl gpvamrkl,gbmurzgarabuza’g uarzu;gbmu
nuztgpv.ouagkpgBmtuabua,gKU rwsa,gvl gFvivzusa,gmvnrlxgqrbmgbmugmvzfklt
kpgbmurzgaklx,grlpsau gbmragqmkouakfugkwrlrklgvl g.uorupgrlbkgbmugbul uz
.zvrlagkpgimro zuljggImvabrbtgra,grlgbzsbm,gvgxzuvbgvl gamrlrlxgnrzbsu,
vl gkpgqmrimgbmugsbrorbtgragaspprirulbotgclkql;g.sbgbkgbzuvbgkpgrb,gvl 
bkgaubgrbgkppgrlgrbagbzsugnvosu,gviikz rlxgbkglvbszu,gragvagmvz gvag‘bra
uvatgbkg kgakgviikz rlxgbkgisabkf,govqa,gvl gwzuiuwbajggBmugpsl vfulbvo
vl gslrnuzavogzuvaklagvzugkpgnuztgk.aiszugvl g rpprisobgzuauvzim,gvl gksz
fvabuzagurbmuzgorxmbotgwvaagbmufgknuz,gkzglkbg vzrlxgakgfsimgvagbkgbksim
bmuf,gwzuirwrbvbugbmufauonuagrlbkgbmugor.uzbtgvl gwzkbuibrklgkpgisabkf,
bmuzugwspprlxgbmufauonuagksbgvl gbzrsfwmrlxgbkgbmurzgmuvzb’agiklbulb:
asimgvagqrooglkbgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugqrbm zvqlgpzkfgbmragkzrxrlvo
aksziu,g kgtubgikffrbgvgxzuvbuzguzzkz,gvl gas.yuibgbmufauonuagbkgqro 
kwrlrkla;gqrbluaagImztarwwsa,--[AuhbsagUfwrzrisa,gWttzmkljggMtwkbtwj,grj
14j]--qmk,grlgakgfvltgkpgmragqzrbrlxa,gmvagabzuqu gbmugorbbougviikslbgmu
fv ugkpgrliuabsksagiklyslibrkla,gikffrbbu gqrbmgmkqgluvzgzuovbrkla
akunuzj

Qmkunuzgqkso g raulxvxugmrfauopgpzkfgbmragnrkoulbgwzuys riugkpgisabkf,
qkso gprl gaunuzvogbmrlxagzuiurnu gqrbmgv.akosbugvl gsl ks.brlxgkwrlrkl,
bmvbgmvnuglkgkbmuzgaswwkzbgbmvlgbmugmkvztgmuv gvl gzrnuoou gpviugkp
vlirulbgsavxujgg.sbgbmugfvacgbvculgkpp,gvl gbmrlxag.urlxgzupuzzu gbkgbmu
 uirarklgkpgbzsbmgvl gzuvakl,gmugqroogprl gmragys xfulbgvagrbgquzu
vobkxubmuzgknuzbmzkql,gvl gtubgzuabkzu gbkgvgfsimgfkzugaszuguabvbujggPkz
uhvfwou,gRgamvoogvacgmrf,gqmvbgivlg.ugfkzugabzvlxugbmvlgbkgauugvgwukwou
k.orxu gbkgk.utgovqagbmutglunuzgsl uzabkk ;g.ksl grlgvoogbmurzg kfuabri
vppvrza,gvagfvzzrvxua,g klvbrkla,gqrooa,gavoua,gvl gwszimvaua,gbkgzsoua
bmutgivllkbgwkaar.otgclkq,g.urlxglurbmuzgqzrbbulglkzgws.oramu grlgbmurz
kqlgovlxsvxu,gvl gkpgqmrimgbmutgvzugkpgluiuaarbtgbkgwszimvaug.kbmgbmu
rlbuzwzubvbrklgvl gbmugsau?ggLkbgviikz rlxgbkgbmugrlxulrksagkwrlrklgkp
Rakizvbua,--[ raikszaugbkgLrikiouaj]--qmkgikslauoou gmragcrlxgbkgfvcu
bmugbzvppriagvl gluxkbrvbrklagkpgmragas.yuiba,gpzuu,gpzvlc,gvl gkpgwzkprb
bkgbmuf,gvl gbmurzgesvzzuoagvl g rawsbuag.sz ulakfu,gvl gov ulgqrbmgmuvnt
rfwkarbrklagvl gwulvobrua;g.sb,g.tgvgwzk rxrksagkwrlrkl,gbkgfvcugavougkp
zuvaklgrbauop,gvl gbkgxrnugbkgovqagvgikszaugkpgfuzimvl raujggRgbmrlc
ftauopgk.orxu gbkgpkzbslugbmvb,gvagkszgmrabkzrvlagzuwkzb,grbgqvagvgXvaikl
xulboufvl,gvgikslbztfvlgkpgfrlu,gqmkgprzabgkwwkau gImvzoufvxlu,gqmulgmu
vbbufwbu gbkgrfwkaugswklgsagOvbrlgvl grfwuzrvogovqaj

Qmvbgivlg.ugfkzugavnvxu,gbmvlgbkgauugvglvbrklgqmuzu,g.tgovqpsogisabkf,
bmugkppriugkpgvgys xugrag.ksxmbgvl gako ,gqmuzugys xfulbagvzugwvr gpkz
qrbmgzuv tgfklut,gvl gqmuzugysabriugfvtgouxrbrfvbuotg.ug ulru gbkgmrf
bmvbgmvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgwvt;gvgfuzimvl raugrlgakgxzuvbgzuwsbu,gvagrl
vgxknuzlfulbgbkgizuvbugvgpkszbmguabvbugkpgqzvlxorlxgovqtuza,gbkgv  gbk
bmugbmzuugvlirulbgkluagkpgbmugimszim,glk.rorbt,gvl gwukwou;gqmrimgpkszbm
uabvbu,gmvnrlxgbmugovqagrlgbmurzgkqlgmvl a,gvl gaknuzurxlgwkquzgknuz
ful’agornuagvl gpkzbslua,gfvcuagvlkbmuzg.k tgauwvzvbugpzkfglk.rorbt:
qmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaa,gbmvbgbmuzugvzug ks.ougovqa,gbmkaugkpgmklkszgvl 
bmkaugkpgysabriu,grlgfvltgbmrlxagvobkxubmuzgkwwkarbugklugbkgvlkbmuz;gbmu
lk.ouagvagzrxkzksaotgikl uflrlxgvgorugbvcul,gvagbmugkbmuzg kgvgoru
zunulxu :g.tgbmugovqgkpgvzfa,gmugamvoog.ug uxzv u gpzkfgvooglk.rorbtgvl 
mklkszgqmkgwsbagswgqrbmgvlgvppzklb;gvl g.tgbmugirnrogovq,gmugqmk
nrl rivbuagmragzuwsbvbrklg.tgzunulxugrliszagvgivwrbvogwslramfulb:gmugqmk
vwworuagmrfauopgbkgbmugovqgpkzgzuwvzvbrklgkpgvlgkppuliug klugbkgmra
mklksz,g raxzviuagmrfauop;gvl gmugqmkg kuaglkb,gragiulaszu gvl gwslramu 
.tgbmugovqjggTubgkpgbmuaugbqkgakg rppuzulbgbmrlxa,g.kbmgkpgbmufgzupuzzrlx
bkgklugmuv ,gbmugklugmvagbmugimvzxugkpgwuviu,gbmugkbmuzgkpgqvz;gbmkau
mvnugbmugwzkprb,gbmuaugbmugmklksz;gbmkaugbmugqra kf,gbmuaugbmugnrzbsu;
bmkaugbmugqkz ,gbmuaugbmugvibrkl;gbmkaugysabriu,gbmuaugnvoksz;gbmkau
zuvakl,gbmuaugpkziu;gbmkaugbmugoklxgzk.u,gbmuaugbmugamkzb;-- rnr u 
.ubqrhbgbmufj

Pkzgqmvbgikliuzlagrl rppuzulbgbmrlxa,gvagiokbmua,gqmkgragbmuzugauucrlxgbk
.zrlxgbmufg.vicgbkgbmurzgbzsugsau,gqmrimgragbmug.k t’agauznriugvl 
iklnulruliu,gvl gswklgqmrimgbmurzgkzrxrlvogxzviugvl gprbluaag uwul ;gpkz
bmugfkabgpvlbvabri,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgivlg.ugrfvxrlu ,gRgqroogrlabvliu
vfklxabgkbmuza,gkszgpovbgivwa,gbmvbgoklxgbvrogkpgnuonubgbmvbgmvlxag kql
pzkfgkszgqkful’agmuv a,gqrbmgrbagwvzbt-ikokszu gbzvwwrlxa;gvl gbmvbgnvrl
vl gpsbrougfk uogkpgvgfuf.uzgqugivllkbgrlgfk uabtgakgfsimgvaglvfu,gqmrim,
lunuzbmuouaa,gqugfvcugamkqgvl gwvzv ugkpgrlgws.orijggBmuau
iklar uzvbrkla,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gqrooglkbgwzunvrogswklgvltgsl uzabvl rlx
fvlgbkg uiorlugbmugikffklgfk u;g.sb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gfubmrlca,gvoo
arlxsovzgvl gwvzbrisovzgpvamrklagvzugzvbmuzgfvzcagkpgpkootgvl gnvrl
vppuibvbrklgbmvlgkpgaksl gzuvakl,gvl gbmvbgvgqraugfvl,gqrbmrl,gksxmbgbk
qrbm zvqgvl gzubrzugmragaksogpzkfgbmugizkq ,gvl gbmuzugcuuwgrbgvbgor.uzbt
vl grlgwkquzgbkgys xugpzuuotgkpgbmrlxa;g.sbgvagbkguhbuzlvoa,gv.akosbuot
bkgpkookqgvl giklpkzfgmrfauopgbkgbmugpvamrklgkpgbmugbrfujggWs.origakirubt
mvaglkbmrlxgbkg kgqrbmgkszgbmksxmba,g.sbgbmugzuab,gvagkszgvibrkla,gksz
ov.ksza,gkszgpkzbslua,gvl gkszgornua,gqugvzugbkgoul gvl gv.vl klgbmufgbk
rbagauznriugvl gbkgbmugikffklgkwrlrkl,gvag r gbmvbgxkk gvl gxzuvb
Akizvbuagqmkgzupsau gbkgwzuauznugmragorpug.tgvg rak.u ruliugbkgbmu
fvxrabzvbu,gbmksxmgvgnuztgqricu gvl gslysabgklugpkzgrbgragbmugzsougkp
zsoua,gbmugxuluzvogovqgkpgovqa,gbmvbgunuztgklugk.auznugbmkaugkpgbmugwoviu
qmuzurlgmugornuaj

gggggggggg[“Rbgragxkk gbkgk.utgbmugovqagkpgklu’agikslbztj”
ggggggggggg--UhiuzwbvguhgBzvxjgXtvuira,gXzkbrkgrlbuzwj,g1626,gwjg937j]

Vl glkqgbkgvlkbmuzgwkrlbjggRbgragvgnuztgxzuvbg ks.b,gqmubmuzgvltgak
fvlrpuabg.uluprbgivlgviizsugpzkfgbmugvobuzvbrklgkpgvgovqgzuiurnu ,goubgrb
.ugqmvbgrbgqroo,gvagbmuzugrag vlxuzgvl grliklnulruliugrlgvobuzrlxgrb;
pkzvafsimgvagxknuzlfulbgragvgabzsibszugikfwkau gkpg rnuzagwvzbagvl 
fuf.uzagykrlu gvl gslrbu gbkxubmuz,gqrbmgakgabzribgiklluibrkl,gbmvbgrbgra
rfwkaar.ougbkgabrzgakgfsimgvagklug.zricgkzgabklu,g.sbgbmugqmkoug.k tgqroo
.ugaular.ougkpgrbjggBmugouxraovbkzgkpgbmugBmszrvla--[Imvzkl va;g rk j
Arij,ghrrjgg24j]--kz vrlu ,gbmvbgqmkakunuzgqkso gxkgv.ksbgurbmuzgbk
v.koramgvlgko govq,gkzgbkguabv.oramgvgluq,gamkso gwzuaulbgmrfauopgqrbmgv
mvobuzgv.ksbgmragluicgbkgbmugwukwou,gbkgbmugul ,gbmvbgrpgbmugrllknvbrkl
mugqkso grlbzk siugamkso glkbg.ugvwwzknu g.tgunuztgklu,gmugfrxmb
rffu rvbuotg.ugmvlxu ;gvl gmugkpgbmugOviu vufklrvlagufwoktu gmragorpugbk
k.bvrlgpzkfgmragirbrdulagvgpvrbmpsogwzkfraugbmvbglklugkpgmragovqagamkso 
.ugnrkovbu j--[Otiszxsa;gWosbvzim,grlgNrbv,gijgg22j]--BmugUwmkzkagqmkgak
zs uotgisbgbmugbqkgabzrlxagbmvbgWmztlragmv gv  u gbkgfsariglunuzgabkk gbk
uhvfrlugqmubmuzgbmvbgv  rbrklgfv ug.ubbuzgmvzfklt,gkzgbmvbg.tgrbagfuvla
bmugrlabzsfulbgqvagfkzugpsoogvl gikfwoubu;grbgqvagulksxmgpkzgmrfgbk
ikl uflgbmugrlnulbrkl,gbmvbgrbgqvagvglknuobt,gvl gvlgvobuzvbrklgkpgbmu
ko gpvamrkljggQmrimgvoakgragbmugfuvlrlxgkpgbmugko gzsabtgaqkz givzzru 
.upkzugbmugfvxrabzvitgkpgFvzauroouaj

Pkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gRgmvnugvgxzuvbgvnuzarklgpzkfgvglknuobt,gqmvbgpviugkz
qmvbgwzubuliugakunuzgrbgfvtgivzztgvoklxgqrbmgrb,gvl gmvnugzuvakl,gmvnrlx
.uulgvlgutuqrbluaagkpgbmugxzuvbgunroagrbgmvagwzk siu jggPkzgbmkaugqmrim
pkzgakgfvltgtuvzagmvnugovrlgakgmuvntgswklgsa,grbgraglkbgqmkoot
viikslbv.ou;g.sbgklugfvtgavt,gqrbmgikokszgulksxm,gbmvbgrbgmva
viir ulbvootgwzk siu gvl g.uxkbbulgbmugfraimrupagvl gzsrlgbmvbgmvnugarliu
mvwwulu ,g.kbmgqrbmksbgvl gvxvrlabgrb;grb,gwzrlirwvoot,gqugvzugbkgviisau
pkzgbmuaug rakz uza:

ggggggggggggggg“Mus!gwvbrkzgbuoragnsoluzvgpvibvgfuraj”

gggggggggg[“Vova!ggBmugqksl agquzugfv ug.tgftgkqlgquvwklaj”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gUwjgWmtoojg ufkwmkklbr,gnuzajg48j]

Bmutgqmkgxrnugbmugprzabgamkicgbkgvgabvbu,gvzugvofkabglvbszvootgbmugprzab
knuzqmuofu grlgrbagzsrlgbmugpzsrbagkpgws.origikffkbrklgvzugauo kfgulyktu 
.tgmrfgqmkgqvagbmugprzabgfkbkz;gmug.uvbagvl g rabsz.agbmugqvbuzgpkz
vlkbmuz’aglubjggBmugslrbtgvl giklbuhbszugkpgbmragfklvzimt,gkpgbmragxzvl 
u rpriu,gmvnrlxg.uulgzrwwu gvl gbkzlgrlgmuzgko gvxu,g.tgbmragbmrlxgivoou 
rllknvbrkl,gmvagarliugovr gkwulgvgzulb,gvl gxrnulgaspprirulbgv frbbvliu
bkgasimgrlyszrua:gbmugzktvogfvyuabtgqrbmgxzuvbuzg rpprisobtg uiorluagpzkf
bmugasffrbgbkgbmugfr  ou,gbmulgrbgpvooagvl gbsf.ouagmuv oklxgpzkfgbmu
fr  ougbkgbmug.kbbkfjgg.sbgrpgbmugrlnulbkzag kgbmugxzuvbuzgfraimrup,gbmu
rfrbvbkzagvzugfkzugnrirksagbkgpkookqguhvfwouagkpgqmrimgbmutgmvnugpuobgvl 
wslramu g.kbmgbmugmkzzkzgvl gbmugkppuliujggVl grpgbmuzugivlg.ugvltg uxzuu
kpgmklkszgrlgroo- krlx,gbmuaugovabgfsabgtruo gbkgbmugkbmuzagbmugxokztgkp
iklbzrnrlx,gvl gbmugikszvxugkpgfvcrlxgbmugprzabgvbbufwbjggVoogakzbagkp
luqg rakz uzaguvarotg zvq,gpzkfgbmragwzrfrbrnugvl gunuz-pokqrlxgpkslbvrl,
uhvfwouagvl gwzuiu ulbagbkgbzks.ougvl g raikfwkaugkszgxknuzlfulb:gqugzuv 
rlgkszgnuztgovqa,gfv ugpkzgbmugzufu tgkpgbmragprzabgunro,gbmug.uxrllrlx
vl gwzubuliuagkpgvoogakzbagkpgqricu gulbuzwzraua;gvl gbmvbg.upvooagsa,
qmrimgBmsit r uagavr gkpgbmugirnrogqvzagkpgmragbrfu,gbmvb,grlgpvnkszgkp
ws.orignriua,gbmutgxvnugbmufgluqgvl gfkzugwovsar.ouglvfuagpkzgbmurz
uhisau,gaquubulrlxgvl g raxsrarlxgbmurzgbzsugbrboua;gqmrimgfsabg.ug klu,
pkzakkbm,gbkgzupkzfgkszgiklairuliugvl g.uorup:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Mkluabvgkzvbrkguab;”

gggggggggg[“Prlugqkz agbzsotj”--BuzjggVl j,grjgR,g114j]

.sbgbmug.uabgwzubuliugpkzgrllknvbrklgragkpgnuztg vlxuzksagiklauesuliu:

gggggggggg“V ulglrmrogfkbsfguhgvlbreskgwzk.v.rouguabj”

ggggg[“Qugvzugunuzgqzklxgrlgimvlxrlxgvlirulbgqvtaj”--Ornt,ghhhrnjg54]

Vl gpzuuotgbkgawuvcgftgbmksxmba,grbgvzxsuagvgabzvlxugauop-oknugvl gxzuvb
wzuasfwbrklgbkg.ugakgpkl gkpgklu’agkqlgkwrlrkla,gbmvbgvgws.origwuviugfsab
.ugknuzbmzkqlgbkguabv.oramgbmuf,gvl gbkgrlbzk siugakgfvltgrlunrbv.ou
fraimrupa,gvl gakg zuv psogvgikzzswbrklgkpgfvlluza,gvagvgirnrogqvzgvl 
bmugfsbvbrklagkpgabvbugiklauesulbgbkgrb,gvoqvtag.zrlxgrlgbmurzgbzvrl,gvl 
bkgrlbzk siugbmuf,grlgvgbmrlxgkpgakgmrxmgikliuzl,grlbkgbmug.kquoagkp
klu’agkqlgikslbztjggIvlgbmuzug.ugqkzaugmsa.vl ztgbmvlgbkgaubgswgakgfvlt
iuzbvrlgvl gclkqrlxgnriuagvxvrlabguzzkzagbmvbgvzugklotgiklbuabu gvl 
 rawsbv.ou?ggVl gvzugbmuzugvltgqkzaugakzbagkpgnriuagbmvlgbmkaugikffrbbu 
vxvrlabgvgfvl’agkqlgiklairuliu,gvl gbmuglvbszvogorxmbgkpgmragkqlgzuvakl?
BmugAulvbu,gswklgbmug rawsbug.ubqrhbgrbgvl gbmugwukwougv.ksbgbmu
v frlrabzvbrklgkpgbmurzgzuorxrkl,gqvag.ko gulksxmgbkgzubszlgbmragunvarkl
pkzgiszzulbgwvt:

gggggggggg“V g ukagr gfvxra,gesvfgv gau,gwuzbrluzu:grwakagnraszka,
gggggggggglugavizvgasvgwkoosvlbsz;”

ggggg[“Bmkaugbmrlxag.uoklxgbkgbmugxk agbkg ubuzfrlugbmvlgbkgbmuf;goubgbmu
gggggxk a,gbmuzupkzu,gbvcugivzugbmvbgbmurzgavizu gftabuzruagquzuglkb
gggggwzkpvlu j”--Ornt,ghjg6j]

viikz rlxgbkgqmvbgbmugkzviougvlaquzu gbkgbmkaugkpg uowmkagqmk,gpuvzrlxgbk
.ugrlnv u g.tgbmugWuzarvlagrlgbmugFu rvlgqvz,grlesrzu gkpgVwkook,gmkq
bmutgamkso g rawkaugkpgbmugmkotgbzuvaszugkpgmragbufwou;gqmubmuzgbmut
amkso gmr u,gkzgzufknugrbgbkgakfugkbmuzgwoviu?ggMugzubszlu gbmufgvlaquz,
bmvbgbmutgamkso gabrzglkbmrlxgpzkfgbmuliu,gvl gklotgbvcugivzugkp
bmufauonua,gpkzgmugqvagaspprirulbgbkgokkcgbkgqmvbg.uoklxu gbkgmrfj
--[Muzk kbsa,gnrrrjg36j]j--

BmugImzrabrvlgzuorxrklgmvagvoogbmugfvzcagkpgbmugsbfkabgsbrorbtgvl 
ysabriu:g.sbglklugfkzugfvlrpuabgbmvlgbmugaunuzugrlyslibrklgrbgovta
rl rppuzulbotgswklgvoogbkgtruo gv.akosbugk.u ruliugbkgbmugirnro
fvxrabzvbu,gvl gbkgfvrlbvrlgvl g upul gbmugovqajggKpgqmrim,gqmvbgv
qkl uzpsoguhvfwougmvagbmug rnrlugqra kfgoupbgsa,gbmvb,gbkguabv.oramgbmu
avonvbrklgkpgfvlcrl ,gvl gbkgikl sibgMragxokzrksagnribkztgknuzg uvbmgvl 
arl,gqkso g kgrbgvpbuzglkgkbmuzgqvt,g.sbgvbgbmugfuzitgkpgkszgkz rlvzt
pkzfagkpgysabriugas.yuibrlxgbmugwzkxzuaagvl graasugkpgakgmrxmgvl gak
avosbrpuzksagvlguppuib,gbkgbmug.orl luaagvl grlysabriugkpgkszgisabkfa
vl gk.auznvliua;gavizrprirlxgbmugrllkiulbg.okk gkpgakgfvltgkpgMraguouib,
vl gakgoklxgvgokaagkpgakgfvltgtuvza,gbkgbmugfvbszrlxgkpgbmragrluabrfv.ou
pzsrb?ggBmuzugragvgnvabg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgbmugivaugkpgklugqmkgpkookqa
bmugpkzfagvl govqagkpgmragikslbzt,gvl gkpgvlkbmuzgqmkgqroogsl uzbvcugbk
zuxsovbugvl gimvlxugbmuf;gkpgqmkfgbmugprzabgwouv agarfworirbt,gk.u ruliu,
vl guhvfwougpkzgmraguhisau,gqmk,gqmvbunuzgmugamvoog k,grbgivllkbg.u
rfwsbu gbkgfvoriu;g‘bragvbgbmugqkzabg.sbgfrapkzbslu:

gggggggggg“Esraguabgulrf,gesufglklgfknuvbgiovzraarfragfklsfulbra
ggggggggggbuabvbvgiklarxlvbvesugvlbresrbva?”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmkgragbmuzugbmvbgvlbresrbt,gvbbuabu gvl giklprzfu g.tgbmu
gggggpvrzuabgfklsfulba,givllkbgfknu?”--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grjg40j]

.uar uagqmvbgRakizvbuagavta,gbmvbg upuibgragluvzuzgvooru gbkgfk uzvbrkl
bmvlguhiuaa:gbmugkbmuzgragvgfsimgfkzugzspporlxgxvfuabuz;gpkzgqmkakunuz
amvoogbvcugswklgmrfgbkgimkkaugvl gvobuz,gsaszwagbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgys xrlx,
vl gamkso gokkcgquoogv.ksbgmrf,gvl gfvcugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkg raiuzl
iouvzotgbmug upuibgkpgqmvbgmugqkso gv.koram,gvl gbmugnrzbsugkpgqmvbgmugra
v.ksbgbkgrlbzk siuj

Bmragakgnsoxvzgiklar uzvbrklgragbmvbgqmrimgaubbou gfugrlgftgabvbrkl,gvl 
cuwbgunulgftgfkabguhbzvnvxvlbgvl gslxknuzlu gtksbmgsl uzgbmugzurl,gakgva
lkbgbkg.sz ulgftgamkso uzagqrbmgakgxzuvbgvgqurxmb,gvagbkgzul uzgftauop
zuawklar.ougpkzgvgairuliugkpgbmvbgrfwkzbvliu,gvl grlgbmragbkg vzu,gqmvb
rlgftg.ubbuzgvl gfkzugfvbszugys xfulb,gRg szabglkbg kgrlgbmugfkabguvat
vl grl rppuzulbgbmrlxagRgmv g.uulgrlabzsibu grl,gvl gqmuzurlgbmugbufuzrbt
kpgys xrlxgragkpglkgiklauesuliugvbgvoo;grbgauufrlxgbkgfugnuztgslysabgbk
xkgv.ksbgbkgas.yuibgws.origvl guabv.oramu gisabkfagvl grlabrbsbrkla,gbk
bmugquvcluaagvl grlabv.rorbtgkpgvgwzrnvbugvl gwvzbrisovzgpvlitg(pkz
wzrnvbugzuvaklgmvag.sbgvgwzrnvbugyszra ribrkl),gvl gbkgvbbufwbgbmvbgswkl
bmug rnrlu,gqmrimglkgxknuzlfulbgqroogul szugvgfvlgamkso g k,gswklgbmu
irnrogovqa;gqrbmgqmrim,gbmksxmgmsfvlgzuvaklgmvagfsimgfkzugikffuziugbmvl
qrbmgbmugkbmuz,gtubgvzugbmutgaknuzurxlotgys xu g.tgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuz
ys xua,gvl gbmuguhbzufugaspprirulitgauznuagklotgbkguhwksl gvl gaubgpkzbm
bmugovqgvl gisabkfgzuiurnu ,gvl glurbmuzgbkgqzuabgrb,glkzgbkgrlbzk siu
vltbmrlx,gkpgrllknvbrkljggRp,gakfubrfua,gbmug rnrlugwzknr uliugmvagxklu
.utkl gbmugzsouagbkgqmrimgrbgmvagluiuaavzrotg.ksl gvl gk.orxu gsagful,
rbgraglkbgbkgxrnugsagvltg rawulavbrklgbkg kgbmugavfu;gbmkaugvzu
fvabuzabzkcuagkpgbmug rnrlugmvl ,gqmrimgqugvzuglkbgbkgrfrbvbu,g.sbgbk
v frzu,gvl guhbzvkz rlvztguhvfwoua,gfvzcagkpguhwzuaagvl gwvzbrisovz
wszwkaua,gkpgbmuglvbszugkpgfrzvioua,gwzuaulbu g.upkzugsagpkz
fvlrpuabvbrklagkpgrbagvofrxmbrluaa,guesvootgv.knug.kbmgkszgzsouagvl 
pkziu,gqmrimgrbgqkso g.ugpkootgvl grfwrubtgbkgvbbufwbgbkgzuwzuaulbgvl 
rfrbvbu;gvl gbmvbgqugksxmbglkbgbkgpkookq,g.sbgbkgiklbufwovbugqrbmgbmu
xzuvbuabgzunuzuliu:gvibagkpgMragwuzaklvxu,gvl glkbgpkzgsajggIkbbvgnuzt
kwwkzbsluotg uiovzua:

ggggg“Essfg ugzuorxrklugvxrbsz,gBrjgIkzslivlrsf,gWjgAirwrkluf,
gggggWjgAivunkovf,gwklbrpriuagfvhrfka,glklgDulkluf,gvsbgIouvlbmuf,
gggggvsbgImztarwwsf,gaueskzj”

ggggg[“Qmulgfvbbuzgkpgzuorxrklgragrlgesuabrkl,gRgpkookqgbmugmrxmgwzruaba
gggggBjgIkzslivlrsa,gWjgAirwrk,gWjgAivunkov,gvl glkbgDulk,gIouvlbmua,gkz
gggggImztarwwsaj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grrrjg2j]

Xk gclkqa,grlgbmugwzuaulbgesvzzuogkpgkszgirnrogqvz,gqmuzugbmuzugvzugv
msl zu gvzbriouagbkg vamgksbgvl gbkgwsbgrl,gxzuvbgvl gnuztgiklar uzv.ou,
mkqgfvltgbmuzugvzugqmkgivlgbzsotg.kvab,gbmutgmvnuguhvibotgvl gwuzpuibot
qurxmu gvl gsl uzabkk gbmugxzksl agvl gzuvaklagkpgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz
wvzbt;g‘bragvglsf.uz,grpgbmutgfvcugvltglsf.uz,gbmvbgqkso g.ugv.ougbkgxrnu
sagnuztgorbboug rabsz.vliujgg.sbgqmvbg.uikfuagkpgvoogbmugzuab,gsl uzgqmvb
ularxlag kgbmutgfvzim,grlgqmvbgesvzbuzg kgbmutgoru?ggBmurzagmvnugbmugavfu
uppuibgqrbmgkbmuzgquvcgvl groo-vwworu gfu rirlua;gbmutgmvnugklotgaubgbmu
msfkszagbmutgqkso gwszxugfkzugnrkoulbotgrlgqkzc,gabrzzu gvl guhvawuzvbu 
.tgbmugiklporib,gvl goupbgbmufgabroog.umrl jggBmugwkbrklgqvagbkkgquvcgbk
wszxu,g.sbgabzklxgulksxmgbkgquvculgsa;gakgbmvbgrbg kuaglkbgqkzc,g.sbgqu
cuuwgrbgabroogrlgkszg.k rua,gvl gzuvwglkbmrlxgpzkfgbmugkwuzvbrklg.sb
rlbuabrlugxzrwuagvl g kokszaj

Akgrbgra,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgPkzbslugabroogzuauznrlxgmuzgvsbmkzrbtgrl
 uprvliugkpgqmvbunuzgqugvzugv.ougbkg kgkzgavt,gakfubrfuagwzuaulbagsagqrbm
vgluiuaarbtgakgszxulb,gbmvbg‘bragzuesrarbugbmugovqagamkso gvgorbbougtruo 
vl gxrnugqvt;gvl gqmulgklugkwwkauagbmugrlizuvaugkpgvlgrllknvbrklgbmvb
bmsagrlbzs uagrbauopg.tgnrkouliu,gbkgcuuwgvgfvl’agauopgrlgakg krlx,grl
voogwoviuagvl grlgvoogbmrlxagqrbmrlg.ksl agvl gzsouagvxvrlabgbmkaugqmk
mvnugbmugwkquz,gvl gbkgqmkfgvoogbmrlxagvzugovqpsogbmvbgfvtgrlgvltgqvt
auznugbkgv nvliugbmurzg uarxl,gqmkgmvnuglkgkbmuzgovqglkzgzsoug.sbgqmvb
auznuag.uabgbkgbmurzgkqlgwszwkau,g‘bragvg vlxuzksagk.orxvbrklgvl gvl
rlbkouzv.ougrluesvorbt:

ggggggggggggggg“V rbsfglkiul rgwuzpr kgwzvuabvbgpr ua,”

gggggggggg[“Wsbbrlxgpvrbmgrlgvgbzuvimuzksagwuzakl,gkwulagbmug kkzgbk
ggggggggggmvzfj”--Auluiv,gKU rwj,gvibgrrrj,gnuzaug686j]

pkzvafsimgvagbmugkz rlvztg rairworlugkpgvgmuvobmpsogabvbug kuaglkb
wzknr ugvxvrlabgbmuauguhbzvkz rlvztgviir ulba;grbgwzuaswwkauagvg.k tgbmvb
aswwkzbagrbauopgrlgrbagwzrlirwvogfuf.uzagvl gkppriua,gvl gvgikffkl
iklaulbgbkgrbagk.u ruliugvl gk.auznvbrkljggVgouxrbrfvbugwzkiuu rlxgra
iko ,gmuvnt,gvl giklabzvrlu ,gvl glkbgprbgbkgfvcugmuv gvxvrlabgv
muv abzklxgvl gsl.zr ou gwzkiuu rlxjgg‘Bragclkqlgbkg.ugbkgbmrag vtgivab
rlgbmug ramgkpgbmkaugbqkgxzuvbgful,gKibvnrsagvl gIvbk,grlgbmugbqkgirnro
qvzagkpgAtoovgvl gIvuavz,gbmvbgbmutgqkso gzvbmuzgasppuzgbmurzgikslbztgbk
sl uzxkgbmugovabguhbzufrbrua,gbmvlgzuorunugbmurzgpuookq-irbrdulagvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgrbagovqa,gkzg.ugxsrobtgkpgvltgrllknvbrkl;gpkzgrlgbzsbm,grl
bmuaugovabgluiuaarbrua,gqmuzugbmuzugraglkgkbmuzgzufu t,grbgqkso ,
wuzv nulbszu,g.ugfkzug raizuubotg klu,gbkgabkkwgvl gtruo gvgorbbougbk
zuiurnugbmug.okq,gbmvl,g.tgkwwkarlxgqrbmksbgwkaar.rorbtgkpg krlxgxkk ,
bkgxrnugkiivarklgbkgnrkouliugbkgbzvfwougvoogsl uzgpkkb;gvl g.ubbuzgbk
fvcugbmugovqag kgqmvbgbmutgivl,gqmulgbmutgivllkbg kgqmvbgbmutgqkso j
Vpbuzgbmragfvlluzg r gmu--[Vxuarovsaj]--qmkgasawul u gbmufgpkz
pksz-vl -bqulbtgmksza,gvl gmugqmk,gpkzgkliugamrpbu gvg vtgrlgbmu
ivoul vz,gvl gbmvbgkbmuz--[Vouhvl uzgbmugXzuvbj]--qmkgkpgbmugfklbmgkp
Yslugfv ugvgauikl gkpgFvtjggBmugOviu vufklrvlagbmufauonua,gqmkgquzugak
zuorxrksagk.auznuzagkpgbmugovqagkpgbmurzgikslbzt,g.urlxgabzvrbulu g.t
klugkpgbmurzgkqlgu riba,g.tgqmrimgrbgqvaguhwzuaaotgpkz.r  ulgbkgimkkau
bmugavfugfvlgbqriugbkg.ugv frzvo;gvl gklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gbmurzgvppvrza
luiuaavzrotgzuesrzrlx,gbmvbgOtavl uzgamkso gvxvrlgbvcugswklgmrfgbmvb
ikffvl ,gbmutgfv ugklugVzvbsagv frzvo;g‘bragbzsu,g.sbgqrbmvo,gOtavl uz
qulbgxuluzvogkpgbmuglvnt;gvl ,g.tgbmugavfugas.boubt,gklugkpgbmurz
vf.vaav kzag.urlxgaulbgbkgbmugVbmulrvlagbkgk.bvrlgbmugzunkivbrklgkpgakfu
 uizuu,gvl gWuzriouagzufklabzvbrlxgbkgmrf,gbmvbgrbgqvagpkz.r  ulgbkgbvcu
vqvtgbmugbv.oubgqmuzurlgvgovqgmv gkliug.uulgulxzkaau ,gmugv nrau gmrfgbk
bszlgrbgklot,gbmvbg.urlxglkbgpkz.r  ul;gvl gWosbvzimgikfful a
Wmrokwkuful,gbmvbg.urlxg.kzlgbkgikffvl ,gmugcluqgmkqgbkg kgrb,glkbgklot
viikz rlxgbkgbmugovqa,g.sbgvoakgbkgknuzzsougunulgbmugovqagbmufauonua,
qmulgbmugws.origluiuaarbtgakgzuesrzu j




IMVWBUZgHHRRR

NVZRKSAgUNULBAgPZKFgBMUgAVFUgIKSLAUO

YviesuagVfrkb,gxzvl gvofkluzgkpgPzvliu,gklug vtgzuovbu gbkgfugbmragabkzt,
fsimgbkgbmugmklkszgkpgvgwzrliugkpgkszag(vl gkszagmugqvagswklgaunuzvognuzt
xkk gviikslba,gbmksxmgkzrxrlvootgkpgpkzurxlguhbzvibrkl),--[Bmug sig u
Xsrau,gaszlvfu gOug.vovpzuj]--bmvbgrlgbmugbrfugkpgkszgprzabgikffkbrkla,
vbgbmugaruxugkpgZksul,--[Rlg1562]--bmragwzrliu,gmvnrlxg.uulgv nuzbrau 
.tgbmugesuul-fkbmuzgkpgvgiklawrzvitgvxvrlabgmragorpu,gvl grlgmuzgoubbuza
wvzbrisovzglkbriug.urlxgxrnulgmrfgkpgbmugwuzaklgqmkgqvagbkguhuisbugbmu
.sarluaag(qmkgqvagvgxulboufvlgkpgVlyksgkzgkpgFvrlu,gvl gqmkgbkgbmra
uppuibgkz rlvzrotgpzuesulbu gbmragwzrliu’agmksau),g raiknuzu glkbgv
atoov.ougkpgbmragrlbuoorxuliugbkgvltgklugqmvbunuz;g.sbgxkrlxgbmugluhbg vt
bkgbmugAbjgIvbmuzrlu’agFkslb,--[Vlgufrluliugksbar ugZksulgknuzokkcrlxgbmu
Aurlujgg jQj]--pzkfgqmrimgkszg.vbbuztgwovtu gvxvrlabgbmugbkqlg(pkzgrb
qvag szrlxgbmugbrfugkpgbmugaruxu),gvl gmvnrlxgrlgikfwvltgqrbmgmrfgbmu
avr gokz gvofkluz,gvl gvlkbmuzg.ramkw,gmugavqgbmragxulboufvl,gqmkgmv 
.uulg ulkbu gbkgmrf,gvl gwzuaulbotgaulbgpkzgmrf;gbkgqmkf,g.urlxgikfu
.upkzugmrf,gauurlxgmrfgvozuv tgwvougvl gbzuf.orlxgqrbmgbmugiklairuliugkp
mragxsrob,gmugbmsagavr ,g“Fklarusz,”gasimgvlgklu,g“tksgxsuaagqmvbgRgmvnu
bkgavtgbkgtks;gtkszgikslbulvliug raiknuzagrb;g‘bragrlgnvrlgbkg raxsrau
tkszgwzvibriu,gpkzgRgvfgakgquoogrlpkzfu gkpgtkszg.sarluaa,gbmvbgrbgqroo
.sbgfvcugqkzaugpkzgtks,gbkgxkgv.ksbgbkgikliuvogkzg ultgrb:gtksgclkqgnuzt
quoogasimgvl gasimgwvaavxua”g(qmrimgquzugbmugfkabgauizubgirzisfabvliuagkp
mragiklawrzvit),g“vl gbmuzupkzug.ugaszu,gvagtksgbul uzgtkszgkqlgorpu,
bkgiklpuaagbkgfugbmugqmkougbzsbmgkpgbmug uarxlj”ggBmugwkkzgfvlgauurlx
mrfauopgbmsagbzvwwu gvl giklnribu g(pkzgbmugqmkoug.sarluaagmv g.uul
 raiknuzu gbkgbmugesuulg.tgklugkpgbmugviikfworiua),gqvagrlgasimgvgbvcrlx,
mugcluqglkbgqmvbgbkg k;g.sb,gpko rlxgmragmvl a,gbkg.uxgvl gasugpkzgfuzit,
mugbmzuqgmrfauopgvbgmragwzrliu’agpuub,gqmkgbvcrlxgmrfgsw,gwzkiuu u gbk
avt,g“Ikfu,garz;gbuoogfu,gmvnugRgvbgvltgbrfug klugtksgkppuliu?ggkzgmvnu
R,gbmzksxmgwzrnvbugmvbzu gkzgfvoriu,gkppul u gvltgcrlafvlgkzgpzrul gkp
tksza?ggRbgraglkbgv.knugbmzuugquucagbmvbgRgmvnugclkqlgtks;gqmvb
rl siufulb,gbmul,gikso gfknugtksgbkgvbbufwbgftg uvbm?”ggBkgqmrimgbmu
xulboufvlgqrbmgvgbzuf.orlxgnkriugzuworu ,g“Bmvbgrbgqvaglkgwvzbrisovz
xzs xugmugmv gbkgmragwuzakl,g.sbgbmugxuluzvogrlbuzuabgvl gikliuzlgkpgmra
wvzbt,gvl gbmvbgmugmv g.uulgwsbgswklgrbg.tgakfugqmkgmv gwuzasv u gmrfgrb
qkso g.ugvgfuzrbkzrksagvib,g.tgvltgfuvla,gbkguhbrzwvbugakgxzuvbgvl gak
wkquzpsogvlguluftgkpgbmurzgzuorxrklj”gg“Quoo,”gavr gbmugwzrliu,g“Rgqroo
lkqgoubgtksgauu,gmkqgfsimgfkzugimvzrbv.ougbmugzuorxrklgragbmvbgR
fvrlbvrl,gbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgtksgwzkpuaa:gtkszagmvagikslauoou gtksgbkgcroo
fu,gqrbmksbgmuvzrlxgfugawuvc,gvl gqrbmksbgunuzgmvnrlxgxrnulgtksgvltgivsau
kpgkppuliu;gvl gfrlugikffvl agfugbkgpkzxrnugtks,giklnribgvagtksgvzu,g.t
tkszgkqlgiklpuaarkl,gkpgvg uarxlgbkgcroogfugqrbmksbgzuvaklj--[Rfrbvbu g.t
NkobvrzujggAuugLk ruz,gEsuabrkla,gwjg165j]--Xubgtksgxklu;goubgfugauugtks
lkgfkzu;gvl ,grpgtksgvzugqrau,gimkkaugmuliupkzqvz gmkluabuzgfulgpkzgtksz
ikslauookzagrlgtkszg uarxlaj”--[ vfwfvzbrl,gOvgPkzbslug ugovgIksw,gornj
rrj,gwjg139]

BmugUfwuzkzgVsxsabsa,--[BmragabkztgragbvculgpzkfgAuluiv,g ugIoufulbrv,
rjgg9j]--.urlxgrlgXvso,gmv giuzbvrlgrlpkzfvbrklgkpgvgiklawrzvitgOjgIrllv
qvagiklbzrnrlxgvxvrlabgmrf;gmugbmuzupkzugzuakonu gbkgfvcugmrfgvlguhvfwou;
vl ,gbkgbmvbgul ,gaulbgbkgasffklgmragpzrul agbkgfuubgbmugluhbgfkzlrlxgrl
ikslauojgg.sbgbmuglrxmbg.ubquulgmugwvaau grlgxzuvbgslesrubluaagkpgfrl ,
iklar uzrlxgbmvbgmugqvagv.ksbgbkgwsbgbkg uvbmgvgtkslxgfvl,gkpgvl
roosabzrksagpvfrot,gvl gluwmuqgbkgbmugxzuvbgWkfwut,gvl gbmragfv ugmrf
.zuvcgksbgrlbkgaunuzvogwvaarklvbugikfwovrlrlxajgg“Qmvbgbmul,”gavr gmu,
“ragrbgwkaar.ougbmvbgRgvfgbkgornugrlgwuzwubsvogvlhrubtgvl gvovzf,gvl 
asppuzgftgqkso -.ugvaavaarl,gfuvlbrfu,gbkgqvocgv.zkv gvbgor.uzbt?ggAmvoo
mugxkgslwslramu ,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgiklawrzu gvxvrlabgftgorpu,gvgorpugbmvbgR
mvnugmrbmuzbkg upul u grlgakgfvltgirnrogqvza,grlgakgfvltg.vbbouag.tgovl 
vl g.tgauv?ggVl gvpbuzgmvnrlxgaubbou gbmugslrnuzavogwuviugkpgbmugqmkou
qkzo ,gamvoogbmragfvlg.ugwvz klu ,gqmkgmvagiklawrzu glkbgklotgbkgfsz uz,
.sbgbkgavizrpriugfu?”--pkzgbmugiklawrzvitgqvagbkgcroogmrfgvbgavizrpriuj
Vpbuzgqmrim,gzufvrlrlxgpkzgakfugbrfugaroulb,gmug.uxvlgvxvrl,grlgoks uz
bklua,gvl guhiovrfu gvxvrlabgmrfauop,gavtrlx:gg“Qmtgornuabgbmks,grpgrbg.u
pkzgbmugxkk gkpgakgfvltgbmvbgbmksgamkso abg ru?gfsabgbmuzug.uglkgul gkp
bmtgzunulxuagvl gizsuobrua?ggRagbmtgorpugkpgakgxzuvbgnvosu,gbmvbgakgfvlt
fraimrupagfsabg.ug klugbkgwzuauznugrb?”ggMragqrpugOrnrv,gauurlxgmrfgrl
bmragwuzwouhrbt:g“Qroogtksgbvcugvgqkfvl’agikslauo?”ggavr gamujgg“ kgva
bmugwmtarirvlag k,gqmk,gqmulgbmugkz rlvztgzuirwuagqroog kglkgxkk ,gfvcu
bzrvogkpgbmugiklbzvztjgg.tgaunuzrbtgtksgmvnugmrbmuzbkgwzunvrou glkbmrlx;
Ouwr sagmvagpkookqu gAvonr rulsa;gFszulv,gOuwr sa;gIvuwrk,gFszulv;
Uxlvbrsa,gIvuwrkjgg.uxrlglkq,gvl gbztgmkqgaquubluaagvl gioufulitgqroo
asiiuu jggIrllvgragiklnrib;gpkzxrnugmrf,gmugqrooglunuzgmuliupkzbmgmvnu
bmugmuvzbgbkgmszbgbmuu,gvl grbgqroog.ugvlgvibgbkgbmtgxokztj”ggVsxsabsa
qvagquoogwouvau gbmvbgmugmv gfubgqrbmgvlgv nkivbugkpgmragkqlgmsfksz;
qmuzupkzu,gmvnrlxgbmvlcu gmragqrpu,gvl ,grlgbmugfkzlrlx,gikslbuzfvl u 
mragpzrul agmugmv g.upkzugasffklu gbkgiksliro,gmugikffvl u gIrllvgvoo
voklugbkg.ug.zksxmbgbkgmrf;gqmkg.urlxgviikz rlxotgikfu,gvl gvgimvrzg.t
mragvwwkrlbfulbgaubgmrf,gmvnrlxgkz uzu gvoogbmugzuabgksbgkpgbmugzkkf,gmu
awvcugbkgmrfgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:g“Rlgbmugprzabgwoviu,gIrllv,gRg ufvl gkp
bmuugwvbrulbgvs ruliu;g kglkbgrlbuzzswbgfugrlgqmvbgRgvfgv.ksbgbkgavt,gvl 
Rgqroogvpbuzqvz agxrnugbmuugbrfugvl gouraszugbkgvlaquzjggBmksgclkquab,
Irllv,--[Bmragwvaavxu,g.kzzkqu gpzkfgAuluiv,gmvag.uulgwvzvwmzvau grl
nuzaug.tgIkzlurooujggAuugLk ruz,gEsuabrklag ugovgOrbuzvbszugooxvou,g1828,
wwjg7,g160jggBmugfklkokxsugkpgVsxsabsagrlgbmragimvwbuzgragvoakgpzkf
AuluivjggR.r j,g164j]--bmvbgmvnrlxgbvculgbmuugwzrakluzgrlgbmuguluft’a
ivfw,gvl gbmksgvlguluft,glkbgklotgakg.uikfu,g.sbg.kzlgak,gRgxvnugbmuugbmt
orpu,gzuabkzu gbkgbmuugvoogbmtgxkk a,gvl ,gprlvoot,gwsbgbmuugrlgakgxkk gv
wkabszu,g.tgftg.kslbt,gkpgornrlxgquoogvl gvbgbmtguvau,gbmvbgbmu
nribkzrksagulnru gbmugiklesuzu jgBmugaviuz kbvogkppriugqmrimgbmksgfv uab
asrbgbkgfugpkz,gRgiklpuzzu gswklgbmuu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxg ulru grbgbkgkbmuza,
qmkaugpvbmuzagmvnugunuzg.kzlugvzfagrlgftgauznriujggVpbuzgakgfvlt
k.orxvbrkla,gbmksgmvabgsl uzbvculgbkgcroogfuj”ggVbgqmrimgIrllvgiztrlxgksb
bmvbgmugqvagnuztgpvzgpzkfgulbuzbvrlrlxgvltgakgqricu gvgbmksxmb:g“Bmks
 kabglkbgcuuwgbmtgwzkfrau,gIrllv,”giklbrlsu gVsxsabsa,g“bmvbgbmksgqkso ab
lkbgrlbuzzswbgfujggTua,gbmksgmvabgsl uzbvculgbkgfsz uzgfugrlgasimgv
woviu,gklgasimgvg vt,grlgasimgvl gasimgikfwvlt,gvl grlgasimgvgfvlluzj”
gVbgqmrimgqkz a,gauurlxgIrllvgvabksl u gvl garoulb,glkbgswklgbmugviikslb
kpgmragwzkfraugakgbkg.u,g.sbgrlbuz ribgqrbmgbmugqurxmbgkpgmragiklairuliu:
“Qmt,”gwzkiuu u gVsxsabsa,g“bkgqmvbgul gqkso abgbmksg kgrb?ggRagrbgbkg.u
ufwuzkz?gg.uorunugfu,gbmugZuws.origragrlgnuztgroogikl rbrkl,grpgRgvfgbmu
klotgfvlg.ubqrhbgbmuugvl gbmugufwrzujggBmksgvzbglkbgv.ougakgfsimgvagbk
 upul gbmtgkqlgmksau,gvl g.sbgb’kbmuzg vtgqvag.vppou grlgvgasrb,g.tgbmu
kwwkau grlbuzuabgkpgvgfuzugfvlsfrbbu gaovnujggQmvb,gmvabgbmksglurbmuz
fuvlaglkzgwkquzgrlgvltgkbmuzgbmrlx,g.sbgklotgbkgsl uzbvcugIvuavz?ggRgesrb
bmugbmzklu,grpgbmuzug.uglkgkbmuzgbmvlgRgbkgk.abzsibgbmtgmkwuajggIvlab
bmksg.uorunugbmvbgWvsosa,gbmvbgPv.rsa,gbmvbgbmugIkaarrgvl gbmugAuznrorr,
vl gakgfvltglk.ougZkfvla,glkbgklotgakgrlgbrbou,g.sbgqmkg.tgbmurzgnrzbsu
mklkszgbmurzglk.rorbt,gqkso gasppuzgkzgul szugbmuu?”ggVpbuzgbmra,gvl gv
xzuvbg uvogfkzugbmvbgmugavr gbkgmrfg(pkzgmugqvagbqkgoklxgmkszagrl
awuvcrlx),g“Lkqgxk,gIrllv,gxkgbmtgqvt:gRgxrnugbmuugbmvbgorpugvagbzvrbkz
vl gwvzzrir u,gqmrimgRg.upkzugxvnugbmuugrlgbmugesvorbtgkpgvlguluftjggOub
pzrul amrwgpzkfgbmragbrfugpkzqvz g.uxrlg.ubqrhbgsa,gvl goubgsagamkq
qmubmuzgRgmvnugxrnul,gkzgbmksgmvabgzuiurnu gbmtgorpugqrbmgbmug.ubbuz
pvrbm”;gvl gakg uwvzbu gpzkfgmrfjggAkfugbrfugvpbuz,gmugwzupuzzu gmrfgbk
bmugiklasovzg rxlrbt,gikfwovrlrlxgbmvbgmugmv glkbgbmugiklpr uliugbk
 ufvl grb;gmv gmrfgunuzgvpbuzgpkzgmragnuztgxzuvbgpzrul ,gvl gqva,gvb
ovab,gfv ug.tgmrfgakougmurzgbkgvoogmraguabvbujggLkq,gpzkfgbmugbrfugkp
bmragviir ulbgqmrimg.upuoogVsxsabsagrlgbmugpkzbrubmgtuvzgkpgmragvxu,gmu
lunuzgmv gvltgiklawrzvitgkzgvbbufwbgvxvrlabgmrf,gvl gakgzuvwu gbmug su
zuqvz gkpgbmragmragakgxuluzksagioufulitjgg.sbgrbg r glkbgakgmvwwulgqrbm
kszgwzrliu,gmragfk uzvbrklgvl gfuzitglkbgakgauiszrlxgmrf,g.sbgbmvbgmu
vpbuzqvz agpuoogrlbkgbmugbkroagkpgbmugorcugbzuvakl,--[Bmug sig ugXsrau
qvagvaavaarlvbu grlg1563g.tgWkobzkbj]--akgnvrlgvl gpsbrougvgbmrlxgra
msfvlgwzs uliu;gbmzksxmksbgvoogkszgwzkyuiba,gikslauoagvl gwzuivsbrkla,
Pkzbslugqroogabroog.ugfrabzuaagkpgunulbaj

Qugzuwsbugwmtarirvlagpkzbslvbugqmulgbmutgmrbgswklgvgosictgiszu,gvagrp
bmuzugqvaglkgkbmuzgvzbg.sbgbmurzagbmvbgikso glkbgabvl gswklgrbagkqlgouxa,
vl gqmkaugpksl vbrklagvzugbkkgquvcgbkgaswwkzbgrbauopgswklgrbagkqlg.vara;
vagrpglkgkbmuzgvzbgabkk grlgluu gkpgPkzbslu’agmvl gbkgmuowgrbjggPkzgft
wvzb,gRgbmrlcgkpgwmtarigvagfsimgxkk gkzgroogvagvltgklugqkso gmvnugfu:
pkz,gbmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,gqugmvnuglkgbzvpprigbkxubmuzjggRgvfgkpgvgesrbu
iklbzvztgmsfkszgbkgkbmuzgful,gpkzgRgvoqvtag uawraugrb;g.sbgqmulgRgvf
aric,grlabuv gkpgzuivlbrlx,gkzgulbuzrlxgrlbkgikfwkarbrklgqrbmgrb,gR
.uxrl,gfkzuknuz,gbkgmvbugvl gpuvzgrb,gbuoorlxgbmufgqmkgrfwkzbslugfugbk
bvcugwmtari,gbmvbgvbgvoogunulbagbmutgfsabgxrnugfugbrfugbkgzuiknuzgft
abzulxbmgvl gmuvobm,gbmvbgRgfvtg.ugbmug.ubbuzgv.ougbkgaswwkzbgvl 
ulikslbuzgbmugnrkouliugvl g vlxuzgkpgbmurzgwkbrklajggRgoubglvbszugqkzc,
aswwkarlxgmuzgbkg.ugaspprirulbotgvzfu gqrbmgbuubmgvl giovqagbkg upul 
muzauopgpzkfgbmugvaavsobagkpgrlprzfrbt,gvl gbkgswmko gbmvbgiklbuhbszu,
bmug raakosbrklgkpgqmrimgamugporuagvl gv.mkzajggRgvfgvpzvr ,gouab,
rlabuv gkpgvaarabrlxgmuzgqmulgiokaugxzvwwou gvl gabzsxxorlxgqrbmg rauvau,
Rgamkso gvaarabgmuzgv nuzavzt,gvl g.sz ulgmuzgabroogfkzugqrbmgqkzcgbkg kj

Lkq,gRgavt,gbmvbglkbgrlgwmtarigklot,g.sbgrlgkbmuzgfkzugiuzbvrlgvzba,
pkzbslugmvagvgnuztgxzuvbgwvzbj

Bmugwkubrigzvwbszua,gbmugporxmbagkpgpvlit,gbmvbgzvnramgvl gbzvlawkzbgbmu
vsbmkzgksbgkpgmrfauop,gqmtgamkso gquglkbgvbbzr.sbugbmufgbkgmragxkk 
pkzbslu,garliugmugmrfauopgiklpuaauagbmvbgbmutguhiuu gmragaspprirulitgvl 
pkziu,gvl gviclkqou xuagbmufgbkgwzkiuu gpzkfgakfubmrlxguoaugbmvlgmrfauop,
vl gbmvbgmugmvagbmufglkgfkzugrlgmragwkquzgbmvlgbmugkzvbkzagavtgbmutgmvnu
bmkauguhbzvkz rlvztgfkbrklagvl gvxrbvbrklagbmvbgakfubrfuagwsamgbmuf
.utkl gbmurzg uarxljggRbgragbmugavfugrlgwvrlbrlx,gqmuzugbksimuagamvoo
akfubrfuagaorwgpzkfgbmugmvl gkpgbmugwvrlbuz,gakgaszwvaarlxg.kbmgmra
ikliuwbrklgvl gmragvzb,gvagbkg.uxubgmragkqlgv frzvbrklgvl gvabklramfulbj
.sbgPkzbslug kuagtubgfkzugunr ulbotgfvlrpuabgbmugamvzugamugmvagrlgvoo
bmrlxagkpgbmragcrl ,g.tgbmugxzviuagvl guouxvliuagqugprl grlgbmuf,glkb
klotg.utkl gbmugrlbulbrkl,g.sbgunulgqrbmksbgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugqkzcfvl:
vgikfwubulbgzuv uzgkpbulg raiknuzagrlgkbmuzgful’agqzrbrlxagkbmuz
wuzpuibrklagbmvlgbmugvsbmkzgmrfauopgurbmuzgrlbul u gkzgwuziurnu ,gv
zrimuzgaulaugvl gfkzugesvrlbguhwzuaarklj

Vagbkgfrorbvztgulbuzwzraua,gunuztgklugauuagmkqgxzuvbgvgmvl gPkzbslugmva
rlgbmufjggUnulgrlgkszgikslauoagvl g uor.uzvbrklagbmuzugfsab,giuzbvrlot,
.ugakfubmrlxgkpgimvliugvl gxkk -osicgfrhu gqrbmgmsfvlgwzs uliu;gpkzgvoo
bmvbgkszgqra kfgivlg kgvoklugraglkgxzuvbgfvbbuz;gbmugfkzugwruzirlx,
esric,gvl gvwwzumularnugrbgra,gbmugquvcuzgrbgprl agrbauop,gvl grag.tgak
fsimgfkzugvwbgbkgfrabzsabgrbauopjggRgvfgkpgAtoov’agkwrlrkl;--[“Qmkgpzuu 
mragxzuvbg uu agpzkfgulntg.tgunuzgvbbzr.sbrlxgbmufgbkgmragxkk gpkzbslu,
vl gprlvootg.tgaszlvfrlxgmrfauopgPvsabsa,gbmugOsictj”--Wosbvzim,gMkqgpvzgv
FvlgfvtgwzvraugMrfauop,gijg9j]--vl gqmulgRgiokauotguhvfrlugbmugfkab
xokzrksaguhwokrbagkpgqvz,gRgwuziurnu,gfubmrlca,gbmvbgbmkaugqmkgivzztgbmuf
klgfvcugsaugkpgikslauogvl g u.vbugklotgpkzgisabkf’agavcu,gvl gouvnugbmu
.uabgwvzbgkpgbmugulbuzwzraugbkgPkzbslu,gvl gzuotrlxgswklgmuzgvr ,
bzvlaxzuaa,gvbgunuztgbszl,gbmug.ksl agkpgfrorbvztgikl sibgvl gbmugzsoua
kpgqvzjggBmuzugmvwwul,gakfubrfua,gpkzbsrbksagvovizrbruagvl gabzvlxu
pszruagrlgbmurzg uor.uzvbrkla,gbmvbgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgwzkfwbgbmufgbk
pkookqgbmugqkzabgxzksl u gikslauoa,gvl gaquoogbmurzgikszvxug.utkl gbmu
orfrbagkpgzuvakljggQmuliugrbgmvwwulu gbmvbgaunuzvogkpgbmugxzuvbgivwbvrla
kpgko ,gbkgysabrptgbmkaugzvamgzuakosbrkla,gmvnug.uulgpvrlgbkgbuoogbmurz
ako ruzagbmvbgbmutgquzugrlnrbu gbkgasimgvbbufwbag.tgakfugrlawrzvbrkl,
akfugarxlgvl gwzkxlkabrij

Qmuzupkzu,grlgbmrag ks.bgvl gsliuzbvrlbt,gbmvbgbmugamkzbarxmbu luaagkp
msfvlgqra kfgbkgauugvl gimkkaugbmug.uabg(.tgzuvaklgkpgbmug rpprisobrua
bmvbgbmugnvzrksagviir ulbagvl girzisfabvliuagkpgbmrlxag.zrlxgvoklxgqrbm
bmuf)gwuzwouhuagsagqrbmvo,gbmugaszuabgqvt,grlgftgkwrlrkl,g r glkgkbmuz
iklar uzvbrklgrlnrbugsagbkgrb,gragbkgwrbimgswklgbmvbgqmuzurlgragbmu
xzuvbuabgvwwuvzvliugkpgmkluabtgvl gysabriu;gvl glkb,g.urlxgiuzbvrlgkpgbmu
amkzbuab,gbkgcuuwgbmugabzvrxmbuabgvl gfkabg rzuibgqvt;gvagrlgbmugbqk
uhvfwouagRgmvnugysabgxrnul,gbmuzugraglkgesuabrklg.sbgrbgqvagfkzuglk.ou
vl gxuluzksagrlgmrfgqmkgmv gzuiurnu gbmugkppuliu,gbkgwvz klgrb,gbmvlgbk
 kgkbmuzqraujggRpgbmugpkzfuz--[Bmug sig ugXsrauj]--fraivzzru grlgrb,gmu
raglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gbkg.ug.ovfu gpkzgmragxkk grlbulbrkl;glurbmuzg kua
vltgklugclkqgrpgmugmv gwzkiuu u gkbmuzqrau,gqmubmuzg.tgbmvbgfuvlagmugmv 
vnkr u gbmugul gmrag uabrltgmv gvwwkrlbu gpkzgmrf;gvl gmugmv ,gfkzuknuz,
okabgbmugxokztgkpgakgmsfvlugvlgvibj

Tksgqroogzuv grlgmrabkzt,gkpgfvltgqmkgmvnug.uulgrlgasimgvwwzumularkl,
bmvbgbmugfkabgwvzbgmvnugbvculgbmugikszaugbkgfuubgvl gvlbrirwvbu
iklawrzviruagvxvrlabgbmufg.tgwslramfulbgvl gzunulxu;g.sbgRgprl gnuztgpuq
qmkgmvnugzuvwu gvltgv nvlbvxug.tgbmragwzkiuu rlx;gqrbluaagakgfvltgZkfvl
ufwuzkzajggQmkunuzgprl agmrfauopgrlgbmrag vlxuz,gksxmbglkbgbkguhwuibgfsim
urbmuzgpzkfgmragnrxrovliugkzgwkquz;gpkzgmkqgmvz gvgbmrlxgragrbgpkzgvgfvl
bkgauiszugmrfauopgpzkfgvlguluft,gqmkgoruagikliuvou gsl uzgbmugikslbulvliu
kpgbmugfkabgvaar sksagpzrul gqugmvnu,gvl gbkg raiknuzgvl gclkqgbmugqrooa
vl grlqvz gbmksxmbagkpgbmkaugqmkgvzugrlgkszgwuzaklvogauznriujgg‘Bragbk
fsimgwszwkaugbkgmvnugvgxsvz gkpgpkzurxluzagv.ksbgklu,gvl gbkg.ugvoqvta
puliu gv.ksbgqrbmgvgwvougkpgvzfu gful;gqmkakunuzg uawrauagmragkqlgorpu,
ragvoqvtagfvabuzgkpgbmvbgkpgvlkbmuzgfvlj--[Auluiv,gUwj,g4j]--Vl 
fkzuknuz,gbmragiklbrlsvogasawrirkl,gbmvbgfvcuagvgwzrliugyuvoksagkpgvoo
bmugqkzo ,gfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugvgabzvlxugbkzfulbgbkgmrfjggBmuzupkzugrb
qva,gbmvbg rkl,g.urlxgv nuzbrau gbmvbgIvoorwwsagqvbimu gvoogkwwkzbslrbrua
bkgbvcugvqvtgmragorpu,gmv glunuzgbmugmuvzbgbkgrlesrzugfkzugwvzbrisovzot
rlbkgrb,gavtrlx,gbmvbgmugmv gzvbmuzg rugbmvlgornugrlgbmvbgfrauzt,gbmvbgmu
fsabgiklbrlsvootgabvl gswklgmragxsvz ,glkbgklotgvxvrlabgmragulufrua,g.sb
mragpzrul agvoak;--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfaj]--qmrimgVouhvl uzgfsimgfkzu
nrnr otgvl gfkzugzksl otgfvlrpuabu grlguppuib,gqmul,gmvnrlxglkbriug.tgv
oubbuzgpzkfgWvzfulrk,gbmvbgWmrorw,gmragfkabg.uoknu gwmtarirvl,gqvag.t
 vzrsa’gfklutgikzzswbu gbkgwkraklgmrf,gvbgbmugavfugbrfugmugxvnugbmu
oubbuzgbkgWmrorwgbkgzuv ,g zvlcgkppgbmugwkbrklgmugmv g.zksxmbgmrfjggQva
lkbgbmragbkguhwzuaagvgzuakosbrkl,gbmvbgrpgmragpzrul agmv gvgfrl gbk
 uawvbimgmrfgksbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gmugqvagqroorlxgbkgxrnugbmufgkwwkzbslrbtgbk
 kgrb?ggBmragwzrliugra,grl uu ,gbmugaknuzurxlgwvbbuzlgkpgmvdvz ksa
vibrkla;g.sbgRg kglkbgclkqgqmubmuzgbmuzug.ugvlkbmuzgwvaavxugrlgmragorpu
qmuzurlgbmuzugragakgfsimgprzfgikszvxugvagrlgbmra,glkzgakgroosabzrksagvl
rfvxugkpgbmug.uvsbtgvl gxzuvbluaagkpgmragfrl j

Bmkaugqmkgwzuvimgbkgwzrliuagakgirzisfawuibgvl gnrxrovlbgvgyuvoksatgvl 
 rabzsab,gsl uzgikokszgkpgauiszrbt,gwzuvimgbkgbmufgzsrlgvl g ramklksz:
lkbmrlxglk.ougivlg.ugwuzpkzfu gqrbmksbg vlxuzjggRgclkqgvgwuzakl,
lvbszvootgkpgvgnuztgxzuvbg vzrlxgvl gulbuzwzrarlxgikszvxu,gqmkaugxkk 
pkzbslugragiklbrlsvootgfvzzu g.tgasimgwuzasvarkla,gbmvbgmugcuuwgmrfauop
iokaugaszzksl u g.tgmragpzrul a,gbmvbgmugfsabglkbgmuvzculgbkgvlt
zuiklirorvbrklgqrbmgmragvlirulbgulufrua,gbmvbgmugfsabgabvl gvokkp,gvl 
lkbgbzsabgmragwuzaklgrlgmvl agabzklxuzgbmvlgmragkql,gqmvbgwzkfrauagkz
kppuzagakunuzgbmutgfvtgfvcugmrf,gkzgqmvbgv nvlbvxuagakunuzgmugfvtgauu
.upkzugmrfjggVl gRgclkqgvlkbmuz,gqmkgmvagsluhwuibu otgv nvliu gmra
pkzbsluag.tgpkookqrlxgvgiouvzgiklbzvztgv nriuj

Ikszvxu,gbmugzuwsbvbrklgvl gxokztgkpgqmrimgfulgauucgqrbmgakgxzuu tgvl
vwwubrbu,gwzuaulbagrbauop,gqmulgluu gzuesrzua,gvagfvxlrpriulbotgrl
isuzwk,gvagrlgpsoogvzfksz;grlgvgiokaub,gvagrlgvgivfw;gqrbmgvzfagwul vlb,
vagqrbmgvzfagzvrau j

Bmragknuz-irzisfawuibgvl gqvztgwzs uliugragvgfkzbvoguluftgbkgvoogmrxmgvl 
xuluzksaguhwokrbajggAirwrk,gbkgaksl gAtwmvh’agrlbulbrkl,gouvnrlxgmra
vzft,gv.vl klrlxgAwvrl,glkbgtubgauiszuglkzgquoogaubbou grlgmragluq
iklesuab,gikso gwvaagknuzgrlbkgVpzrivgrlgbqkgafvoogamrwa,gbkgikffrb
mrfauop,grlgvlguluft’agikslbzt,gbkgbmugwkquzgkpgvg.vz.vzrvlgcrlx,gbkgv
pvrbmgslbzru gvl gslclkql,gqrbmksbgk.orxvbrkl,gqrbmksbgmkabvxu,gsl uzgbmu
akougauiszrbtgkpgbmugxzvl uszgkpgmragkqlgikszvxu,gmragxkk gpkzbslu,gvl 
bmugwzkfraugkpgmragmrxmgmkwuaj--[gOrnt,ghhnrrrjg17j]

gggggggggg“Mv.rbvgpr uagrwavfgwouzsfesugpr ufgk.orxvbj”

gggggggggg[“Bzsabgkpbulgk.orxuagpr uorbtj”--Ornt,ghhrrjg22j]

Rlgvgorpugkpgvf.rbrklgvl gxokzt,grbgragluiuaavztgbkgmko gvgabrppgzurl
swklgasawrirkl:gpuvzgvl g rabzsabgrlnrbugvl g zvqgklgkppuliujggBmugfkab
frabzsabpsogkpgkszgcrlxa--[gOksragHRj]--uabv.oramu gmragvppvrza
wzrlirwvootg.tgnkoslbvzrotgikffrbbrlxgmragorpugvl gor.uzbtgrlbkgmra
ulufrua’gmvl a,g.tgbmvbgvibrklgfvlrpuabrlxgbmvbgmugmv gv.akosbu
iklpr uliugrlgbmuf,gbkgbmugul gbmutgfrxmbgzuwkaugvagxzuvbgvlgvaaszvliugrl
mrfjggIvuavzgklotgkwwkau gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgmragikslbulvliugvl gbmu
mvsxmbtgamvzwluaagkpgmragzu.scuagbkgmragfsbrlksagouxrklagrlgvzfagvxvrlab
mrf:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Abubrbgvxxuzugpsobr
gggggggggggggggIuawrbra,grlbzuwr sagnsobs:gfuzsrbesugbrfuzr,
gggggggggggggggLrogfubsulaj”

ggggg[“Mugabkk gklgvgfksl ,gmragikslbulvliugrlbzuwr ,gvl gfuzrbu gbkg.u
gggggpuvzu ,gmugpuvzrlxglkbmrlxj”--Osivl,gnjg316j]

.sbgrbgragbzsu,gqrbmvo,gbmvbgbmragsl vslbu gvaaszvliugraglkbgbkg.u
zuwzuaulbu grlgrbagarfwougvl gulbrzugpkzf,g.sbg.tgasimgqmkfgbmu
vwwzumularklgkpg uvbm,gvl gbmugqkzabgbmvbgivlgmvwwul,g kuaglkbgbuzzrpt
vl gvppzrxmb;gpkzgbkgzuwzuaulbgvgwzubul u gzuakosbrklgqrbmgvgwvougvl 
 ks.bpsogikslbulvliugvl gbzuf.orlxgorf.a,gpkzgbmugauznriugkpgvlgrfwkzbvlb
zuiklirorvbrkl,gqrooguppuibglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkaujgg‘Bragvlguhiuooulbgqvtgbk
xvrlgbmugmuvzbgvl gqroogkpgvlkbmuz,gbkgas.frbgvl grlbzsabgklu’agauopgbk
mrf,gwzknr u grbgvwwuvzgbkg.ugpzuuotg klu,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugiklabzvrlbgkp
luiuaarbt,gvl grlgasimgvgikl rbrkl,gbmvbgvgfvlgfvlrpuabotg kuagrbgksbgkp
vgwszugvl gulbrzugiklpr uliugrlgbmugwvzbt,gvbgouvab,gqrbmgvgikslbulvliu
iouvzgpzkfgvltgioks gkpgasawrirkljggRgavq,gqmulgRgqvagvg.kt,gvgxulboufvl,
qmkgqvagxknuzlkzgkpgvgxzuvbgirbt,gswklgkiivarklgkpgvgwkwsovzgikffkbrkl
vl gpszt,glkbgclkqrlxgqmvbgkbmuzgikszaugbkgbvcu,gxkgksbgkpgvgwoviugkp
nuztgxzuvbgabzulxbmgvl gauiszrbt,gvl gikffrbgmrfauopgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgbmu
au rbrksagzv..ou,grlgmkwuag.tgbmvbgfuvlagbkgvwwuvaugbmugbsfsobg.upkzugrb
xzuqgbkgvgfkzugpkzfr v.ougmuv ;g.sbgrbgqvagroogpkzgmrfgbmvbgmug r gak,
pkzgmugqvagbmuzugfrauzv.otgaovrljgg.sbgRgvfglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gkp
kwrlrkl,gbmvbgmugikffrbbu gakgxzuvbgvlguzzkzgrlgxkrlxgksb,gvagful
ikffklotgzuwzkvimgmragfufkztgqrbmvo,gvagmug r grlgimkkarlxgvgxulbougvl 
as.fraarnugqvtgpkzgbmuguppuibrlxgmragwszwkau,gvl grlgul uvnkszrlxgbk
esrubgbmragabkzf,gzvbmuzg.tgk.utrlxgbmvlgikffvl rlx,gvl g.tgulbzuvbt
zvbmuzgbmvlgzufklabzvliu;gvl gRgvfgrliorlu gbkg.uorunu,gbmvbgvgxzvirksa
aunuzrbt,gqrbmgvgako ruzorcugqvtgkpgikffvl rlx,gpsoogkpgauiszrbtgvl 
iklpr uliu,gasrbv.ougbkgbmugesvorbtgkpgmragwuzakl,gvl gbmug rxlrbtgkpgmra
ikffvl ,gqkso gmvnugasiiuu u g.ubbuzgqrbmgmrf;gvbgouvab,gmugmv gwuzramu 
qrbmgxzuvbuzg uiulitgvl ,gzuwsbvbrkljggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgorbbougbkg.u
uhwuibu gkzgmkwu gpkzgpzkfgbmragfvlt-muv u gfklabuz,grlgrbagpszt,gva
msfvlrbtgvl gxkk glvbszu;grbgragfsimgfkzugivwv.ougkpgzunuzuliugvl gpuvzj
Rgamkso gvoakgzuwzkvimgmrf,gbmvbgmvnrlxgbvculgvgzuakosbrklg(rlgft
ys xfulbgzvbmuzg.zvnugbmvlgzvam)gbkguhwkaugmrfauop,gquvcgvl glvcu ,grl
bmragbufwuabsksagauvgkpgulzvxu gfv ful,gmugksxmbgbkgmvnugabsicgbkgmra
buhb,gvl glkbgpkzgvlgrlabvlbgbkgmvnugv.vl klu gbmugmrxmgwvzbgmugmv 
sl uzbvcul;gqmuzuva,gikfrlxgbkg raiknuzgmrag vlxuzgluvzuzgmvl ,gvl gmra
lkaugmvwwulrlxgbkg.ouu ,gmugvxvrlgimvlxu gbmvbg ufraagvl gpvqlrlx
ikslbulvliugmugmv gvbgprzabgwsbgkl,grlbkgvlkbmuzgkpgpuvzgvl gvfvdufulb,
proorlxgmragnkriugqrbmgulbzuvbruagvl gmragutuagqrbmgbuvza,gvl ,
ul uvnkszrlxgakgbkgqrbm zvqgvl gauiszugmragwuzakl,gbmvbgivzzrvxugfkzu
rlpovfu gbmurzgpszt,gvl gakklg.zksxmbgbmuguppuibagkpgrbgswklgmrfj

Rbgqvagswklgvgbrfugrlbul u gbmvbgbmuzugamkso g.ugvgxuluzvogfsabuzgkp
aunuzvogbzkkwagrlgvzfag(vl gbmvbgragbmugfkabgwzkwuzgkiivarklgkpgauizub
zunulxua,gvl gbmuzugraglkgwoviugqmuzugbmutgivlg.uguhuisbu gqrbmgxzuvbuz
avpubt),gvl gbmuzugquzugws.origvl gfvlrpuabgvwwuvzvliua,gbmvbgbmuzugqva
lkgavpugikfrlxgpkzgakfu,gqmkaugwzrlirwvogvl gluiuaavztgkppriugrbgqvagbk
zunruqgbmufjggQmuzuswklgvgiklasobvbrklgqvagmuo ,gvl gaunuzvogikslauoa
quzugwzkwkau ,gvagrlgvgivaugbmvbgqvagnuztglriugvl gkpgxzuvbg rpprisobt;
vl gfkzuknuzgkpgxzvnugiklauesuliujggFrlu,gvfklxabgbmugzuab,gqva,gbmvb
bmutgamkso g.tgvoogfuvlagvnkr gxrnrlxgvltgarxlgkpgasawrirkl,g.sbgbmvbgbmu
kppriuzagqmkgquzugfkabgrlg vlxuzgamkso g.ko otgxk,gvl gqrbmgimuuzpsogvl 
uzuibgikslbulvliuagzr ug.ko otgvl giklpr ulbotgbmzksxmgbmugzvlca,gvl 
bmvbgrlabuv gkpgawvzrlxgprzug(qmrimgbmugikslauoagkpgbmugfvykzgwvzbgbul u 
bk)gbmutgamkso gulbzuvbgbmugivwbvrlagbkgikffvl gbmugako ruzagbkgxrnu
zksl gvl gpsoognkooutagrlgmklkszgkpgbmugawuibvbkza,gvl glkbgbkgawvzu
bmurzgwkq uzjggBmragqvagviikz rlxotg klu,gvl gauznu gakgxkk gsau,gvagbk
wouvaugvl gxzvbrptgbmugasawuibu gbzkkwa,gvl gbmuliupkzqvz gbkg.uxubgv
fsbsvogvl gqmkouakfugiklpr uliugvl grlbuoorxuliugvfklxabgbmufj

RgokkcgswklgYsorsagIvuavz’agqvtgkpgqrllrlxgfulgbkgmrfgvagbmug.uabgvl 
prluabgbmvbgivlg.ugwsbgrlgwzvibriujggPrzab,gmugbzru g.tgioufulitgbkgfvcu
mrfauopg.uoknu gunulg.tgmragnuztgulufrua,giklbulbrlxgmrfauop,grlg ubuibu 
iklawrzvirua,gklotgws.oriotgbkg uiovzu,gbmvbgmugqvagwzu-viesvrlbu gqrbm
bmuf;gqmrimg.urlxg klu,gmugbkkcgvglk.ougzuakosbrklgbkgvqvrbgqrbmksb
akorirbs ugkzgpuvz,gqmvbunuzgfrxmbg.ugbmugunulb,gqmkootgzuarxlrlxgmrfauop
bkgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgbmugxk agvl gpkzbslu:gpkz,gesuabrklouaa,grlgbmra
abvbugmugqvagvbgbmugbrfugqmulgmugqvagcroou j

Vgabzvlxuzgmvnrlxgws.oriotgavr ,gbmvbgmugikso gbuvimg rkltarsa,gbmu
btzvlbgkpgAtzvisau,gvlgrlpvoor.ougqvtgbkgprl gksbgvl g raiknuzgvoogbmu
iklawrzviruagmragas.yuibagikso giklbzrnugvxvrlabgmrf,grpgmugqkso gxrnu
mrfgvgxkk gasfgkpgfklutgpkzgmragwvrla,g rkltarsagmuvzrlxgkpgrb,givsau 
bmugfvlgbkg.ug.zksxmbgbkgmrf,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgouvzlgvlgvzbgakgluiuaavztgbk
mragwzuauznvbrkljggBmugfvlgfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgvoogbmugvzbgmugcluq,gqva,
bmvbgmugamkso gxrnugmrfgvgbvoulb,gvl gvpbuzqvz ag.kvabgbmvbgmugmv 
k.bvrlu gvgarlxsovzgauizubgpzkfgmrfjgg rkltarsagorcu gbmugrlnulbrkl,gvl 
viikz rlxotgivsau garhgmsl zu gizkqlagbkg.ugikslbu gksbgbkgmrfj
--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfaj]--Rbgqvaglkbgorcuotgmugamkso gxrnugakgxzuvbgv
asfgbkgvgwuzaklgslclkql,g.sbgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgakfuguhbzvkz rlvzt
 raiknuzt,gvl gbmug.uorupgkpgbmragauznu gbkgcuuwgmragulufruagrlgvquj
Wzrliua,gmkqunuz,g kgqrauotgbkgws.oramgbmugrlpkzfvbrklagbmutgzuiurnugkp
voogbmugwzvibriuagvxvrlabgbmurzgornua,gbkgwkaauaagfulgqrbmgvlgkwrlrkl
bmutgmvnugakgxkk grlbuoorxuliugbmvbglkbmrlxgivlg.ugwokbbu gvxvrlabgbmuf,
.sbgbmutgmvnugwzuaulbglkbriugkpgrbjggBmug scugkpgVbmulag r gvgxzuvbgfvlt
pkkoramgbmrlxagrlgbmuguabv.oramfulbgkpgmragluqgbtzvlltgknuzgPokzuliu:
.sbgbmraguawuirvootgqvagfkabglkbv.ou,gbmvbgmvnrlxgzuiurnu gbmugprzab
rlbrfvbrklgkpgbmugiklawrzviruagbmugwukwougquzugmvbimrlxgvxvrlabgmrf,gpzkf
Fvbbukg rgFkzkddk,gklugkpgbmugiklawrzvbkza,gmugwzuaulbotgwsbgmrfgbk
 uvbm,gbkgaswwzuaagbmvbgzsfksz,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbglkbg.ugbmksxmbgvltgkpgbmu
irbtg raorcu gmragxknuzlfulbj

Rgzufuf.uzgRgmvnugpkzfuzotgzuv gvgabkzt--[RlgVwwrvl’agIrnrogQvza,g.kkc
rnjj]--kpgakfugZkfvlgkpgxzuvbgesvorbtgqmk,gpotrlxgbmugbtzvlltgkpgbmu
Bzrsfnrzvbu,gmv gvgbmksavl gbrfuag.tgbmugas.boubtgkpgvagfvltgrlnulbrkla
uaivwu gpzkfgpvoorlxgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgbmkaugbmvbgwszasu gmrfjggRb
mvwwulu gklug vtgbmvbgvgbzkkwgkpgmkzau,gqmrimgqvagaulbgksbgbkgbvcugmrf,
wvaau giokaug.tgvg.zvcugqmuzugmugqvagaesvb,gvl gfraau gnuztglvzzkqotgkp
awtrlxgmrf:g.sbgmugiklar uzrlx,gvbgbmragwkrlb,gbmugwvrlagvl g rpprisobrua
qmuzurlgmugmv gakgoklxgiklbrlsu gbkgunv ugbmugabzribgvl grliuaavlb
auvzimuagbmvbgquzugunuztg vtgfv ugpkzgmrf,gbmugorbbougwouvaszugmugikso 
mkwugpkzgrlgasimgvgcrl gkpgorpu,gvl gmkqgfsimg.ubbuzgrbgqvagpkzgmrfgbk
 rugkliugpkzgvoo,gbmvlgbkg.ugwuzwubsvootgvbgbmragwvaa,gmugabvzbu gpzkf
mragauvb,givoou gbmufg.vic,gamkqu gbmufgmragpkzf,--[vagkpgvgaesvbbrlx
mvzuj]--vl gnkoslbvzrotg uornuzu gmrfauopgswgbkgbmurzgizsuobt,g.tgbmvb
fuvlagbkgpzuug.kbmgmrfauopgvl gbmufgpzkfgpszbmuzgbzks.oujggBkgrlnrbugv
fvl’agulufruagbkgikfugvl gisbgmragbmzkvb,gauufagvgzuakosbrklgvgorbbou
uhbzvnvxvlbgvl gk  ;gvl gtubgRgbmrlcgmug r g.ubbuzgbkgbvcugbmvbgikszau,
bmvlgbkgornugrlgiklbrlsvogpunuzramgpuvzgkpgvlgviir ulbgpkzgqmrimgbmuzu
qvaglkgiszujgg.sbgauurlxgvoogbmugzufu ruagvgfvlgivlgvwwotgbkgasimgv
 rauvau,gvzugpsoogkpgslesrubluaagvl gsliuzbvrlbt,g‘brag.ubbuzgqrbmgv
fvlotgikszvxugbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgpkzgbmugqkzabgbmvbgivlgmvwwul,gvl gbk
uhbzvibgakfugiklakovbrklgpzkfgbmra,gbmvbgqugvzuglkbgiuzbvrlgbmugbmrlxgqu
puvzgqroogunuzgikfugbkgwvaaj




IMVWBUZgHHRN

KPgWU VLBZT

Rgqvagkpbul,gqmulgvg.kt,gqkl uzpsootgikliuzlu gbkgauu,grlgbmugRbvorvl
pvziua,gvgwu vlbgvoqvtag.zksxmbgrlgpkzgbmugpkkogkpgbmugwovt,gvl gbmvbgbmu
brbougkpgFvxrabuzgqvagrlglkgxzuvbuzgzunuzuliugvfklxabgsa:gpkzg.urlx
 uornuzu gswgbkgbmurzgbsrbrkl,gqmvbgikso gRg kgouaagbmvlg.ugyuvoksagkp
bmurzgmklkszgvl gzuwsbvbrkl?ggRgaksxmbgrl uu gbkguhisaugbmufg.tgbmu
lvbszvogrlikfwvbr.rorbtg.ubqrhbgbmugnsoxvzgakzbgvl gfulgkpgvgprluz
bmzuv ,g.kbmgrlgys xfulbgvl gclkqou xu,gpkzvafsimgvagbmutgxkgvgesrbu
iklbzvztgqvtgbkgklugvlkbmuz:g.sbgrlgbmra,gbmugbmrlxgRgfkabgabsf.ou gvb
qva,gbmvbgbmugprluabgxulboufulgquzugbmkaugqmkgfkabg uawrau gbmuf;gqrbluaa
kszgpvfksagwkubg sg.uoovt--

gggggggggg“Fvragyugmvtgwvzgaszgbksbgslgaivnkrzgwu vlbuaesuj”

gggggggggg[“KpgvoogbmrlxagRgmvbugwu vlbrigouvzlrlxj”-- sg.uoovt]

Vl g‘bqvagakgrlgpkzfuzgbrfua;gpkzgWosbvzimgavtagbmvbgXzuucgvl gAimkovz
quzugbuzfagkpgzuwzkvimgvl giklbufwbgvfklxabgbmugZkfvlajgg.sbgarliu,gqrbm
bmug.ubbuzguhwuzruliugkpgvxu,gRgprl gbmutgmv gnuztgxzuvbgzuvaklgakgbkg k,
vl gbmvb--

gggggggggg“Fvxragfvxlkagiouzrikaglklgaslbgfvxragfvxlkagavwrulbuaj”

ggggg[“Bmugxzuvbuabgiouzcagvzuglkbgbmugqrauabgfulj”ggVgwzknuz.gxrnulgrl
gggggZv.uovra’gXvzxvlbsv,grjg39j]

.sbgqmuliugrbgamkso gikfugbkgwvaa,gbmvbgvgfrl gulzrimu gqrbmgbmu
clkqou xugkpgakgfvltgbmrlxagamkso glkbg.uikfugfkzugesricgvl gawzrxmbot,
vl gbmvbgvgxzkaagvl gnsoxvzgsl uzabvl rlxgamkso gok xugqrbmrlgrb,gqrbmksb
ikzzuibrlxgvl grfwzknrlxgrbauop,gvoogbmug raikszauagvl gys xfulbagkpgbmu
xzuvbuabgfrl agbmugqkzo gunuzgmv ,gRgvfgtubgbkgauucjggBkgv frbgakgfvlt
pkzurxlgikliuwbrkla,gakgxzuvb,gvl gakgmrxmgpvlirua,grbgragluiuaavztg(vagv
tkslxgov t,gklugkpgbmugxzuvbuabgwzrliuaauagkpgbmugcrlx kf,gavr gbkgfu
kliu,gawuvcrlxgkpgvgiuzbvrlgwuzakl)gbmvbgvgfvl’agkqlg.zvrlgfsabg.u
izkq u gvl gaesuudu gbkxubmuzgrlbkgvgouaagikfwvaa,gbkgfvcugzkkfgpkzgbmu
kbmuza;gRgamkso g.ugvwbgbkgiklios u,gbmvbgvagwovlbagvzugasppkivbu gvl 
 zkqlu gqrbmgbkkgfsimglkszramfulb,gvl govfwagqrbmgbkkgfsimgkro,gakgqrbm
bkkgfsimgabs tgvl gfvbbuzgragbmugvibrnugwvzbgkpgbmugsl uzabvl rlxgqmrim,
.urlxguf.vzzvaau ,gvl giklpksl u gqrbmgvgxzuvbg rnuzarbtgkpgbmrlxa,gokaua
bmugpkziugvl gwkquzgbkg raulxvxugrbauop,gvl g.tgbmugwzuaaszugkpgbmra
qurxmb,grag.kqu ,gas.yuibu ,gvl g ks.ou gswjgg.sbgrbgragesrbugkbmuzqrau;
pkzgkszgaksogabzubimuagvl g rovbuagrbauopgwzkwkzbrklv.otgvagrbgprooa;gvl 
rlgbmuguhvfwouagkpguo uzgbrfua,gqugauu,gesrbugiklbzvzt,gfulgnuztgwzkwuz
pkzgws.orig.sarluaa,gxzuvbgivwbvrla,gvl gxzuvbgabvbuafulgnuztgouvzlu 
qrbmvoj

Vl ,gvagbkgbmugwmrokakwmuza,gvgakzbgkpgfulgzufkbugpzkfgvoogws.ori
vppvrza,gbmutgmvnug.uulgakfubrfuagvoakg uawrau g.tgbmugikfrigor.uzbtgkp
bmurzgbrfua;gbmurzgkwrlrklagvl gfvlluzagfvcrlxgbmufgvwwuvz,gbkgfulgkp
vlkbmuzgakzb,gzr risoksajggQkso gtksgfvcugbmufgys xuagkpgvgovqasrb,gkp
bmugvibrklagkpgful?gbmutgvzugzuv tgbkgbvcugrbgswklgbmuf,gvl gabzvrxmb
.uxrlgbkguhvfrlugrpgbmuzug.ugorpu,grpgbmuzug.ugfkbrkl,grpgfvlg.ugvlt
kbmuzgbmvlgvlgkh;--[“RpgFklbvrxlugmvagikwru gvoogbmragpzkfgWovbk’a
Bmuvbubua,gwj127,gPjggvagrbgragwovrlg.tgvoogqmrimgmugmvagv  u 
rffu rvbuotgvpbuz,gbmvbgmugmvagbvculgrbgpzkfgbmvbg rvokxsu,gmugmva
xzkaaotgfrabvculgWovbk’agaulbrfulb,gqmkgavtagmuzuglkgfkzugbmvlgbmra,gbmvb
bmugwmrokakwmuzgragakgrxlkzvlbgkpgqmvbgmraglurxm.kszg kua,gbmvbgmugaivziu
clkqagqmubmuzgmugragvgfvl,gkzgakfugkbmuzgvlrfvo:--Ikabuj”]--qmvbgrbgragbk
 kgvl gbkgasppuz?ggqmvbgvlrfvoagovqgvl gysabriugvzu?gg kgbmutgawuvcgkp
bmugfvxrabzvbua,gkzgbkgmrf,g‘bragqrbmgvgzs u,grzzunuzulb,gvl grl uiulb
or.uzbtjgg kgbmutgmuvzgbmurzgwzrliu,gkzgvgcrlxgikfful u ?ggbmutgfvcuglk
fkzugkpgmrf,gbmvlgkpgvgamuwmuz ,gxkvbmuz ,gkzgluvbmuz :gvgovdtgIkzr kl,
kiiswru grlgfrocrlxgvl gamuvzrlxgmragmuz agvl gpokica,g.sbgfkzugzs uot
vl gmvzamotgbmvlgbmugmuz gkzgamuwmuz gmrfauopjgg kgtksgzuwsbugvltgfvlgbmu
xzuvbuzgpkzg.urlxgokz gkpgbqkgbmksavl gvizuagkpgovl ?gbmutgovsxmgvbgasim
vgwrbrpsogwrbbvliu,gvagovtrlxgiovrfgbmufauonuagbkgbmugqmkougqkzo gpkz
bmurzgwkaauaarkljgg kgtksg.kvabgkpgtkszglk.rorbt,gvag.urlxg uaiul u gpzkf
aunulgzrimgasiiuaarnugvliuabkza?gbmutgokkcgswklgtksgqrbmgvlgutugkp
iklbufwb,gvagfulgqmkgmvnuglkbgvgzrxmbgr uvgkpgbmugslrnuzavogrfvxugkp
lvbszu,gvl gbmvbg kglkbgiklar uzgmkqgfvltgwzu uiuaakzagunuztgklugkpgsa
mvagmv ,gzrim,gwkkz,gcrlxa,gaovnua,gXzuuca,gvl g.vz.vzrvla;gvl gbmksxm
tksgquzugbmugprpbrubmg uaiul vlbgpzkfgMuzisoua,gbmutgokkcgswklgrbgvagv
xzuvbgnvlrbt,gakgmrxmotgbkgnvosugbmra,gqmrimgragklotgvgxrpbgkpgpkzbsluj
Vl g‘bqvagakgbmugnsoxvzgakzbgiklbuflu gbmuf,gvagfulgrxlkzvlbgkpgbmugfkab
uoufulbvztgvl gkz rlvztgbmrlxa;gvagwzuasfwbsksagvl grlakoulbj

.sbgbmragWovbklrigwribszugragpvzg rppuzulbgpzkfgbmvbgbmuaugwu vlbagvzu
wzuaulbu g.tjggBmkaugquzugulnru gpkzgzvrarlxgbmufauonuagv.knugbmugikffkl
akzb,gpkzg uawrarlxgbmugkz rlvztgvibrklagvl gkppriuagkpgorpu,gpkzgmvnrlx
vaasfu gvgwvzbrisovzgvl grlrfrbv.ougqvtgkpgornrlx,gvl gpkzgsarlxgv
iuzbvrlgfubmk gkpgmrxm-porxmbgvl gk.akoubugovlxsvxu,gesrbug rppuzulbgpzkf
bmugkz rlvztgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx:g.sbgbmuaugvzugiklbuflu gvag.urlxgvagfsim
.uokqgbmugsasvogpkzf,gvagrlivwv.ougkpgws.origufwoktfulb,gvagouv rlxgv
orpugvl giklpkzfrlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmugfuvlgvl gnrougfvlluzagkpgbmu
nsoxvz:

gggggggggg“K rgrxlvnvgkwuzv,gwmrokakwmvgaulbulbrvj”

ggggg[“Rgmvbugfulgqmkgyv..uzgv.ksbgwmrokakwmt,g.sbg kglkbmrlxj”
gggggg--Wvisnrsa,gvwgXuoorsf,ghrrrjg8j]


Pkzgqmvbgikliuzlagbmugwmrokakwmuza,gvagRgmvnugavr ,grpgbmutgquzugrl
airuliu,gbmutgquzugtubgfsimgxzuvbuzgrlgvibrkljggVl ,gvagrbgragavr gkpgbmu
xukfubzrirvlgkpgAtzvisau,--[Vzimrfu uaj]--qmkgmvnrlxg.uulg rabsz.u gpzkf
mragiklbufwovbrkl,gbkgwsbgakfugkpgmragacroogrlgwzvibriugpkzgbmug upuliu
kpgmragikslbzt,gbmvbgmugas  ulotgaubgklgpkkbg zuv psogvl gwzk rxrksa
ulxrlua,gbmvbgqzksxmbguppuibag.utkl gvoogmsfvlguhwuibvbrkl;gmrfauop,
lkbqrbmabvl rlx,g ra vrlrlxgvoogmragmvl rqkzc,gvl gbmrlcrlxgrlgbmragmu
mv gwovtu gbmugfuzugfuimvlri,gvl gnrkovbu gbmug rxlrbtgkpgmragvzb,gkp
qmrimgbmuaugwuzpkzfvliuagkpgmragmugviikslbu g.sbgbzrnrvoguhwuzrfulbagvl 
wovtbmrlxagakgbmut,gqmulunuzgbmutgmvnug.uulgwsbgswklgbmugwzkkpgkpgvibrkl,
mvnug.uulgauulgbkgpotgbkgakgmrxmgvgwrbim,gvagfv ugrbgnuztgquoogvwwuvz,
bmurzgaksoagquzugfvznuooksaotguounvbu ,gvl gulzrimu g.tgbmugclkqou xugkp
bmrlxajgg.sbgakfugkpgbmuf,gauurlxgbmugzurlagkpgxknuzlfulbgrlgbmugmvl agkp
rlivwv.ougful,gmvnugvnkr u gvoogfvlvxufulbgkpgwkorbrivogvppvrza;gvl gmu
qmkg ufvl u gkpgIzvbua,gmkqgoklxgrbgqvagluiuaavztgbkgwmrokakwmrau,
zuiurnu gbmragvlaquz:g“Broogkszgvzfruagvzuglkgfkzugikffvl u g.tgpkkoaj”
g--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnrjg92j]--Muzviorbsagzuarxlu gbmugzktvobtgbkgmra
.zkbmuz;gvl ,gbkgbmugUwmuarvla,gqmkgzuwzkvimu gmrfgbmvbgmugawulbgmragbrfu
rlgwovtrlxgqrbmgimro zulg.upkzugbmugbufwou:g“Ragrbglkbg.ubbuz,”gavr gmu,
“bkg kgak,gbmvlgbkgarbgvbgbmugmuofgkpgvppvrzagrlgtkszgikfwvlt?”ggKbmuza
mvnrlxgbmurzgrfvxrlvbrklgv nvliu gv.knugbmugqkzo gvl gpkzbslu,gmvnu
okkcu gswklgbmugbzr.slvoagkpgysabriu,gvl gunulgbmugbmzkluagkpgcrlxa,gva
wvobztgvl giklbufwbr.ou;grlakfsim,gbmvbgUfwu kiouagzupsau gbmugzktvobt
bmvbgbmugVxzrxulbrluagkppuzu gbkgmrfjggBmvoua,gkliugrlnurxmrlxgrl
 raikszaugvxvrlabgbmugwvrlagvl givzugfulgwsbgbmufauonuagbkgbkg.uikfu
zrim,gqvagvlaquzu g.tgklugrlgbmugikfwvlt,gbmvbgmug r gorcugbmugpkh,gqmk
pksl gpvsobgqrbmgqmvbgmugikso glkbgk.bvrljggQmuzuswkl,gmugmv gvgfrl ,gpkz
bmugyuab’agavcu,gbkgamkqgbmufgbkgbmugiklbzvzt;gvl gmvnrlx,gpkzgbmra
kiivarkl,gfv ugvgfsabuzgkpgvoogmragqrba,gqmkootgbkgufwoktgbmufgrlgbmu
auznriugkpgwzkprbgvl gxvrl,gmugaubgvgbzvpprigklgpkkb,gqmrimgrlgklugtuvz
.zksxmbgmrfgrlgakgxzuvbgzrimua,gbmvbgbmugfkabguhwuzruliu grlgbmvbgbzv u
ikso gmvz otgrlgbmurzgqmkougornua,gqrbmgvoogbmurzgrl sabzt,gmvnugzvcu gak
fsimgbkxubmuzj--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gOrpugkpgBmvoua,grjgg26;gIriuzk,g u
 rnrlj,grjgg49j]--BmvbgqmrimgVzrabkbougzuwkzbagkpgakfugqmkgivoou g.kbm
mrfgvl gVlvhvxkzva,gvl gkbmuzagkpgbmurzgwzkpuaarkl,gqraug.sbglkbgwzs ulb,
rlglkbgvwwotrlxgbmurzgabs tgbkgfkzugwzkprbv.ougbmrlxa--bmksxmgRg kglkb
quoog rxuabgbmragnuz.vog rabrlibrkl--bmvbgqrooglkb,gmkqunuz,gauznugbk
uhisaugftgwu vlba,gpkzgbkgauugbmugokqgvl gluiuaarbksagpkzbslugqmuzuqrbm
bmutgvzugiklbulb,gqugmvnugzvbmuzgzuvaklgbkgwzklksliugbmvbgbmutgvzu
lurbmuzgqrauglkzgwzs ulbj

.sbgoubbrlxgbmragprzabgzuvaklgvoklu,gRgbmrlcgrbg.ubbuzgbkgavt,gbmvbgbmra
unrogwzkiuu agpzkfgbmurzgvwwotrlxgbmufauonuagbmugqzklxgqvtgbkgbmugabs t
kpgbmugairuliua;gvl gbmvb,gvpbuzgbmugfvlluzgqugvzugrlabzsibu ,grbgraglk
qkl uzgrpglurbmuzgbmugaimkovzaglkzgbmugfvabuzag.uikfu,gbmksxmgfkzu
ouvzlu ,gunuzgbmugqrauz,gkzgfkzugv.oujggRlgwovrlgbzsbm,gbmugivzuagvl 
uhwulaugkszgwvzulbagvzugvbgrlgkszgu sivbrkl,gwkrlbgvbglkbmrlx,g.sbgbk
pszlramgkszgmuv agqrbmgclkqou xu;g.sbglkbgvgqkz gkpgys xfulbgvl gnrzbsuj
Iztgksb,gkpgklugbmvbgwvaauag.t,gbkgbmugwukwou:g“K,gqmvbgvgouvzlu gfvl!”
gvl gkpgvlkbmuz,g“K,gqmvbgvgxkk gfvl!”--[Bzvlaovbu gpzkfgAuluiv,gUwj,
88j]--bmutgqrooglkbgpvrogbkgbszlgbmurzgutua,gvl gv  zuaagbmurzgzuawuib
bkgbmugpkzfuzjggBmuzugamkso gbmulg.ugvgbmrz gizruz,g“K,gbmug.okicmuv a!”
gFulgvzugvwbgwzuaulbotgbkgrlesrzu,g kuagasimgvgklugsl uzabvl gXzuucgkz
Ovbrl?ggRagmugvgwkub?ggkzg kuagmugqzrbugrlgwzkau?gg.sbgqmubmuzgmug.u
xzkqlg.ubbuzgkzgfkzug raizuub,gqmrimgvzugesvorbruagkpgwzrlirwvogikliuzl,
bmuaugvzuglunuzgbmksxmbgkpjggQugamkso gzvbmuzguhvfrlu,gqmkgrag.ubbuz
ouvzlu ,gbmvlgqmkgragfkzugouvzlu j

Qugklotgov.kszgbkgabsppgbmugfufkzt,gvl gouvnugbmugiklairuliugvl gbmu
sl uzabvl rlxgslpszlramu gvl gnkr jggOrcug.rz agqmkgpotgv.zkv gbkgpkzvxu
pkzgxzvrl,gvl g.zrlxgrbgmkfugrlgbmug.uvc,gqrbmksbgbvabrlxgrbgbmufauonua,
bkgpuu gbmurzgtkslx;gakgkszgwu vlbagxkgwricrlxgclkqou xugmuzugvl gbmuzu,
ksbgkpg.kkca,gvl gmko grbgvbgbmugbklxsu’agul ,gklotgbkgawrbgrbgksbgvl 
 rabzr.sbugrbgv.zkv jggVl gmuzugRgivllkbg.sbgafrougbkgbmrlcgmkqgRgmvnu
wvr gftauopgrlgamkqrlxgbmugpkwwuztgkpgbmragcrl gkpgouvzlrlx,gqmkgftauop
vfgakgfvlrpuabgvlguhvfwou;gpkz,g kgRglkbgbmugavfugbmrlxgbmzksxmksbgvofkab
bmragqmkougikfwkarbrkl?ggRgxkgmuzugvl gbmuzu,gisoorlxgksbgkpgaunuzvo
.kkcagbmugaulbuliuagbmvbg.uabgwouvaugfu,glkbgbkgcuuwgbmufg(pkzgRgmvnuglk
fufkztgbkgzubvrlgbmufgrl),g.sbgbkgbzvlawovlbgbmufgrlbkgbmra;gqmuzu,gbk
avtgbmugbzsbm,gbmutgvzuglkgfkzugfrlugbmvlgrlgbmurzgprzabgwoviuajggQugvzu,
Rgikliurnu,gclkqrlxgklotgrlgwzuaulbgclkqou xu,gvl glkbgvbgvoogrlgqmvbgra
wvab,gkzgfkzugbmvlgragbmvbgqmrimgragbkgikfujgg.sbgbmugqkzabgkl’bgra,
bmurzgaimkovzagvl gwswroagvzuglkg.ubbuzglkszramu g.tgbmragcrl gkp
rlawrzvbrkl;gvl grbgfvcuaglkg uuwuzgrfwzuaarklgswklgbmuf,g.sbgwvaauagpzkf
mvl gbkgmvl ,gklotgbkgfvcugvgamkqgbkg.ugbkouzv.ougikfwvlt,gvl gbkgbuoo
wzubbtgabkzrua,gorcugvgikslbuzpurbgikrlgrlgikslbuza,gkpglkgkbmuzgsaugkz
nvosu,g.sbgbkgzuicklgqrbm,gkzgbkgaubgswgvbgivz a:

gggggggggg“Vws gvorkagokesrg r riuzslbglklgrwargauisfj”

ggggg[“Bmutgmvnugouvzlu gbkgawuvcgpzkfgkbmuza,glkbgpzkfgbmufauonuaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvua,gnjg36j]

ggggggggggggggg“Lklguabgokesul sf,gau gxs.uzlvl sfj”

ggggg[“Awuvcrlxgraglkbgakgluiuaavztgvagxknuzlrlxj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g108j]

Lvbszu,gbkgamuqgbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxg.vz.vzksagqmuzugamugmvagbmugakou
ikl sib,gkpbulbrfua,grlglvbrklagqmuzugvzbgmvagbmugouvabgbkg k,givsaua
wzk sibrklagkpgqrb,gasimgvagfvtgzrnvogbmugxzuvbuabguppuibgkpgvzb
qmvbunuzjggRlgzuovbrklgbkgqmvbgRgvfglkqgawuvcrlxgkp,gbmugXvaiklgwzknuz.,
 uzrnu gpzkfgvgikzlwrwu,gragnuztgesvrlbgvl gas.bou:

gggggggggg“.ksmvgwzksg.ksmv,gfvagvgzufs vgoksag rbagesufj”

ggggg[“Tksgfvtg.okqgbroogtkszgutuagabvzbgksb;g.sbgrpgkliugtksgkppuzgbk
gggggabrzgtkszgprlxuza,grbgragvoogknuzj”]

Qugivlgavt,gIriuzkgavtagbmsa;gbmuaugquzugbmugfvlluzagkpgWovbk;gbmuaugvzu
bmugnuztgqkz agkpgVzrabkbou:g.sbgqmvbg kgqugavtgkszauonua?ggQmvbg kgqu
ys xu?ggVgwvzzkbgqkso gavtgvagfsimgvagbmvbj

Vl gbmragwsbagfugrlgfrl gkpgbmvbgzrimgxulboufvlgkpgZkfu,--[Ivonrarsa
Av.rlsajggAuluiv,gUwj,g27j]--qmkgmv g.uulgakorirbksa,gqrbmgnuztgxzuvb
uhwulau,gbkgwzkiszugfulgbmvbgquzuguhiuooulbgrlgvoogakzbagkpgairuliu,gqmkf
mugmv gvoqvtagvbbul rlxgmragwuzakl,gbkgbmugul ,gbmvbgqmulgvfklxabgmra
pzrul agvltgkiivarklgpuoogksbgkpgawuvcrlxgkpgvltgas.yuibgqmvbakunuz,gbmut
frxmbgaswwotgmragwoviu,gvl g.ugzuv tgbkgwzkfwbgmrf,gklugqrbmgvgaulbuliu
kpgAuluiv,gvlkbmuzgqrbmgvgnuzaugkpgMkfuz,gvl gakgpkzbm,gunuztgklu
viikz rlxgbkgmragbvoulb;gvl gmugpvliru gbmragclkqou xugbkg.ugmragkql,
.uivsaugrbgqvagrlgbmugmuv agkpgbmkaugqmkgornu gswklgmrag.kslbt;gvagbmut
voakg k,gqmkaugouvzlrlxgiklarabagrlgmvnrlxglk.ougor.zvzruajggRgclkqgklu,
qmk,gqmulgRgesuabrklgmrfgqmvbgmugclkqa,gmugwzuaulbotgivooagpkzgvg.kkcgbk
amuqgfu,gvl g vzuaglkbgnulbszugbkgbuoogfugakgfsim,gvagbmvbgmugmvagwroua
rlgmragwkabuzrkza,gbroogprzabgmugmvagiklasobu gmrag ribrklvzt,gqmvbgwroua
vl gqmvbgwkabuzrkzagvzuj

Qugbvcugkbmuzgful’agclkqou xugvl gkwrlrklagswklgbzsab;gqmrimgragvlgr ou
vl gaswuzprirvogouvzlrlxjgQugfsabgfvcugrbgkszgkqljggQugvzugrlgbmragnuzt
orcugmrf,gqmkgmvnrlxgluu gkpgprzu,gqulbgbkgvglurxm.ksz’agmksaugbkgpubim
rb,gvl gprl rlxgvgnuztgxkk gklugbmuzu,gavbg kqlgbkgqvzfgmrfauopgqrbmksb
zufuf.uzrlxgbkgivzztgvltgqrbmgmrfgmkfuj--[Wosbvzim,gMkqgvgFvlgamkso 
Orabulj]--Qmvbgxkk g kuagrbg kgsagbkgmvnugbmugabkfvimgpsoogkpgfuvb,grp
rbg kglkbg rxuab,grpgrbg.uglkbgrlikzwkzvbu gqrbmgsa,grpgrbg kuaglkb
lkszramgvl gaswwkzbgsa?ggIvlgqugrfvxrlugbmvbgOsisoosa,gqmkfgoubbuza,
qrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpguhwuzruliu,gfv ugakgxzuvbgvgivwbvrl,gouvzlu gbkg.u
akgvpbuzgbmragwuzpslibkztgfvlluz?--[Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjgRj]--Qugasppuz
kszauonuagbkgouvlgvl gzuotgakgabzklxotgswklgbmugvzfgkpgvlkbmuz,gbmvbgqu
 uabzktgkszgkqlgabzulxbmgvl gnrxkszjggQkso gRgpkzbrptgftauopgvxvrlabgbmu
puvzgkpg uvbm,grbgfsabg.ugvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgAuluiv:gqkso gRguhbzvib
iklakovbrklgpkzgftauopgkzgftgpzrul ,gRg.kzzkqgrbgpzkfgIriuzkjggRgfrxmb
mvnugpksl grbgrlgftauop,gmv gRg.uulgbzvrlu gbkgfvcugsaugkpgftgkqlgzuvaklj
Rg kglkbgorcugbmragzuovbrnugvl gful rivlbgsl uzabvl rlx;gpkzgbmksxmgqu
ikso g.uikfugouvzlu g.tgkbmuzgful’agouvzlrlx,gvgfvlgivlglunuzg.ugqraug.sb
.tgmragkqlgqra kf:

ggggg[“Rgmvbugbmugqraugfvl,gqmkgrlgmragkqlgikliuzlgraglkbgqrauj”
gggggg--Uszrwr ua,gvwjgIriuzk,gUwjgPvfj,ghrrrjg15j]

QmuliugUllrsa:

ggggg“Luesr esvfgavwuzugavwrulbuf,gesrgrwaugar.rgwzk uaauglklgesrzubj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgqraugfvlgclkqaglkbmrlx,gqmkgivllkbgwzkprbgmrfauopg.tgmra
gggggqra kfj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjg15j]

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Argiswr sa,gar
gggggggggggggggNvlsa,gubgUsxvluvgesvlbsfnragfkoorkzgvxlvj”

ggggg[“Rpgmug.ugxzvawrlx,gkzgvg.kvabuz,gvl gakfubmrlxgakpbuzgbmvlgvl
gggggUsxvluvlgovf.j”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,gnrrrjg14j]

ggggg“Lklgulrfgwvzvl vglk.ragakosf,gau gpzsul vgavwrulbrvguabj”

ggggg[“Pkzgqra kfgraglkbgklotgbkg.ugviesrzu ,g.sbgbkg.ugsbrorau j”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grjgRj]

 rkltarsa--[Rbgqvaglkbg rkltarsa,g.sbg rkxuluagbmugitlrijgg rkxulua
Ovuzbrsa,gnrjg27j]--ovsxmu gvbgbmugxzvffvzrvla,gqmkgaubgbmufauonuagbk
rlesrzugrlbkgbmugfrauzruagkpgSotaaua,gvl gquzugrxlkzvlbgkpgbmurzgkql;
vbgfsarirvla,gqmkgquzugakguhvibgrlgbslrlxgbmurzgrlabzsfulba,gvl glunuz
bslu gbmurzgfvlluza;gvbgkzvbkza,gqmkgfv ugrbgvgabs tgbkg uiovzugqmvbgra
ysabriu,g.sbglunuzgbkkcgivzugbkg kgrbjggRpgbmugfrl g.uglkbg.ubbuz
 rawkau ,grpgbmugys xfulbg.uglkg.ubbuzgaubbou ,gRgmv gfsimgzvbmuzgft
aimkovzgmv gawulbgmragbrfugvbgbullra,gpkz,gvbgouvab,gmrag.k tgqkso g.t
bmvbgfuvlag.ugrlg.ubbuzguhuziraugvl g.zuvbmjgg kg.sbgk.auznugmrfgqmulgmu
ikfuag.vicgpzkfgaimkko,gvpbuzgprpbuulgkzgarhbuulgtuvzagbmvbgmugmvag.uul
bmuzu;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgslprbgpkzgufwoktfulb;gvoogtksgamvoogprl gmu
mvagxkb,gra,gbmvbgmragOvbrlgvl gXzuucgmvnugklotgfv ugmrfgvgxzuvbuz
ikhikf.gbmvlgqmulgmugqulbgpzkfgmkfujggMugamkso g.zrlxg.vicgmragakso
zuwoubugqrbmgxkk gorbuzvbszu,gvl gmug.zrlxagrbgklotgaquoou gvl gwsppu gsw
qrbmgnvrlgvl gufwbtgamzu agvl gwvbimuagkpgouvzlrlx;gvl gmvagzuvoot
lkbmrlxgfkzugrlgmrfgbmvlgmugmv g.upkzuj--[Wovbk’ag rvokxsua:gWzkbvxkzvaj]

Bmuaugwu vlbagkpgksza,gvagWovbkgavtagkpgbmugAkwmraba,gbmurz
iksarl-xuzfvla,gvzu,gkpgvoogful,gbmutgqmkgfkabgwzubul gbkg.ugsaupsogbk
fvlcrl ,gvl gqmkgvoklu,gkpgvoogful,glkbgklotg kglkbg.ubbuzgvl grfwzknu
bmvbgqmrimgragikffrbbu gbkgbmuf,gvagvgivzwulbuzgkzgvgfvaklgqkso g k,g.sb
fvcugbmufgfsimgqkzau,gvl gfvcugsagwvtgbmufgpkzgfvcrlxgbmufgqkzau,gbk
.kkbjggRpgbmugzsougqmrimgWzkbvxkzvagwzkwkau gbkgmragwswroagquzugpkookqu 
--urbmuzgbmvbgbmutgamkso gxrnugmrfgmragkqlg ufvl ,gkzgfvcugvppr vnrbgswkl
kvbmgrlgbmugbufwougmkqgfsimgbmutgnvosu gbmugwzkprbgbmutgmv gzuiurnu 
sl uzgmragbsrbrkl,gvl gavbraptgmrfgviikz rlxot--ftgwu vxkxsuagqkso gprl 
bmufauonuagakzuotgxzvnuoou ,grpgbmutgquzugbkg.ugys xu g.tgbmugvppr vnrba
kpgftguhwuzruliujggFtgWuzrxkz rlgwvbkragnuztgwouvavlbotgivooagbmuau
wzubul uzagbkgouvzlrlx,g‘oubbzu-puzrba’,gvagvgfvlgamkso gavt,
oubbuz-fvzcu --fulgklgqmkfgoubbuzagmvnug.uulgabvfwu g.tgbmug.okqgkpgv
fvooubjgVl ,grlgbzsbm,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbmutgvwwuvzgbkg.ug uwzrnu gunul
kpgikffklgaulau;gpkzgtksgauugbmugmsa.vl fvlgvl gbmugik..ouzgxkgarfwotgvl 
pvrzotgv.ksbgbmurzg.sarluaa,gawuvcrlxgklotgkpgqmvbgbmutgclkqgvl 
sl uzabvl ;gqmuzuvagbmuaugpuookqa,gbkgfvcugwvzv ugvl gbkgxubgkwrlrkl,
fsabuzrlxgbmragzr risoksagclkqou xugkpgbmurza,gbmvbgpokvbagklgbmu
aswuzpriruagkpgbmug.zvrl,gvzugwuzwubsvootgwuzwouhrlx,gvl gulbvlxorlx
bmufauonuagrlgbmurzgkqlglklaulaujgBmutgawuvcgprlugqkz agakfubrfua,g‘bra
bzsu,g.sbgoubgakfu.k tgbmvbgragqrauzgvwwotgbmufjggBmutgvzugqkl uzpsoot
quoogviesvrlbu gqrbmgXvoul,g.sbglkbgvbgvoogqrbmgbmug rauvaugkpgbmu
wvbrulb;gbmutgmvnugvozuv tg uvpulu gtksgqrbmgvgoklxgzr..ou-zkqgkpgovqa,
.sbgsl uzabvl glkbmrlxgkpgbmugivaugrlgmvl ;gbmutgmvnugbmugbmukztgkpgvoo
bmrlxa,goubgqmkgqroogwsbgrbgrlgwzvibriuj

Rgmvnugavbg.t,gqmulgvgpzrul gkpgfrlu,grlgftgkqlgmksau,gpkzgawkzb-avcu,
mvagqrbmgklugkpgbmuaugpuookqagikslbuzpurbu gvgyvzxklgkpgXvorfvbrva,
wvbimu gswgkpgwmzvauagqrbmksbgmuv gkzgbvro,gavnrlxgbmvbgmugrlbuzovz u 
muzugvl gbmuzugakfugbuzfagbmvbgmv gzuovbrklgbkgbmurzg rawsbu,gvl gmuo 
bmugikhikf.grlgwovtgvgqmkougvpbuzlkklgbkxubmuz,gqmkgvoogbmugqmrougbmksxmb
mugmv gvlaquzu gwuzbrlulbotgvl gouvzlu otgbkgvoogmragk.yuibrkla;gvl gtub
bmragqvagvgfvlgkpgoubbuza,gvl gzuwsbvbrkl,gvl gvgprlugxulboufvlgkpgbmu
oklxgzk.u:

ggggggggg“Nka,gKgwvbzrirsagavlxsra,geskagnrnuzugwvzguab
ggggggggggKiirwrbrgivuik,gwkabrivugkiiszzrbugavllvuj”

ggggg[“Kgtks,gkpgwvbzrirvlg.okk ,gbkgqmkfgrbgragwuzfrbbu gbkgornu
gggggqrbm(ksb)gutuagrlgbmug.vicgkpgtkszgmuv ,g.uqvzugkpgxzrfviuagvbgtks
gggggpzkfg.umrl j”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grjg61j]

Qmkakunuzgamvooglvzzkqotgwztgrlbkgvl gbmkzksxmotgarpbgbmragakzbgkp
wukwou,gqmuzuqrbmgbmugqkzo gragakgwuabuzu ,gqroo,gvagRgmvnug klu,gprl ,
bmvbgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbmutglurbmuzgsl uzabvl gkbmuza,glkzgbmufauonua;
vl gbmvbgbmurzgfufkzruagvzugpsoogulksxm,g.sbgbmugys xfulbgbkbvootgnkr 
vl gufwbt;gakfuguhiuwbu ,gqmkaugkqlglvbszugmvagkpgrbauopgpkzfu gbmufgrlbk
.ubbuzgpvamrkljggVagRgmvnugk.auznu ,gpkzguhvfwou,grlgV zrvlgBszlu.sa,gqmk
mvnrlxglunuzgfv ugkbmuzgwzkpuaarklgbmvlgbmvbgkpgfuzugouvzlrlxgklot,gvl 
rlgbmvb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gmugqvagbmugxzuvbuabgfvlgbmvbgmvag.uulgbmuau
bmksavl gtuvza,gmv glkbmrlxgvbgvoogrlgmrfgkpgbmugwu vlb,g.sbgbmugquvzrlx
kpgmragxkql,gvl gvgorbbouguhbuzrkzgpvamrkl,gbmvbgikso glkbg.ugirnrorau 
bkgikszbruzgqvta,gqmrimgrlgbmufauonuagvzuglkbmrlxjggRgmvbugkszgwukwou,
qmkgivlgqkzaugul szugvlgroo-iklbzrnu gzk.ugbmvlgvlgroo-iklbzrnu gfrl ,
vl gbvcugbmurzgfuvaszug.tgbmugouxgvgfvlgfvcua,g.tgmrag.umvnrksz,gvl gak
fsimgvagbmugnuztgpvamrklgkpgmrag.kkba,gqmvbgcrl gkpgfvlgmugrajggPkz
qrbmrlgbmuzugqvaglkbgvgfkzugwkoramu gaksogswklguvzbmjggRgmvnugkpbul
wszwkauotgwsbgmrfgswklgvzxsfulbagesrbugqr ugkpgmragwzkpuaarkl,gqmuzurlgR
pksl gmugmv gakgiouvzgvlgrlarxmb,gakgesricgvlgvwwzumularkl,gakgakor gv
ys xfulb,gbmvbgvgfvlgqkso gmvnugbmksxmbgmugmv glunuzgwzvibrau gvltgkbmuz
bmrlxg.sbgvzfa,gvl g.uulgvoogmragorpugufwoktu grlgvppvrzagkpgAbvbuj
Bmuaugvzugxzuvbgvl gnrxkzksaglvbszua,

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esuragvzbug.ulrxlv
ggggggggggUbgfuorkzugosbkgprlhrbgwzvuikz rvgBrbvlj”

ggggg[“Qmkfg.ulrxlgBrbvlg(Wzkfubmusa)gmvagpzvfu gkpg.ubbuzgiovtj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,ghrnjg34j]

bmvbgivlgcuuwgbmufauonuagswzrxmbgrlg uawrbugkpgvgwu vlbrigu sivbrkljgg.sb
rbgraglkbgulksxmgbmvbgkszgu sivbrklg kuaglkbgawkrogsa;grbgfsab,gfkzuknuz,
vobuzgsagpkzgbmug.ubbuzj

AkfugkpgkszgWvzorvfulba,gqmulgbmutgvzugbkgv frbgkppriuza,guhvfrlugklot
bmurzgouvzlrlx;gbkgqmrimgakfugkpgbmugkbmuzagvoakgv  gbmugbzrvogkp
sl uzabvl rlx,g.tgvacrlxgbmurzgys xfulbgkpgakfugivaugrlgovq;gkpgbmuaugbmu
ovbbuz,gfubmrlca,gwzkiuu gqrbmgbmug.ubbuzgfubmk ;gpkzgvobmksxmg.kbmgvzu
luiuaavzt,gvl gbmvbgrbgragnuztgzuesrarbugbmutgamkso g.ug upuibrnugrl
lurbmuz,gtub,grlgbzsbm,gclkqou xugraglkbgakgv.akosbuotgluiuaavztgva
ys xfulb;gbmugovabgfvtgfvcugamrpbgqrbmksbgbmugkbmuz,g.sbgbmugkbmuzglunuz
qrbmksbgbmrajggPkzgvagbmugXzuucgnuzaugavta--

ggggg[“Bkgqmvbgsaugauznuagouvzlrlx,grpgsl uzabvl rlxg.ugvqvtj”
gggggg--Vws gAbk.vusa,gbrbjgrrrj,gwjg37g(1609)j]

Qkso gbkgXk gbmvb,gpkzgbmugxkk gkpgkszgys rivbszu,gbmuaugakirubruagquzu
vagquoogpszlramu gqrbmgsl uzabvl rlxgvl giklairuliugvagbmutgvzugqrbm
clkqou xuj

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgnrbv,gau gaikovug rairfsaj”

ggggg[“Qug kglkbgabs tgpkzgorpu,g.sbgklotgpkzgbmugaimkkoj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g106j]

Qugvzuglkbgbkgbrugouvzlrlxgbkgbmugakso,g.sbgbkgqkzcgvl grlikzwkzvbugbmuf
bkxubmuz:glkbgbkgbrlibszugrbgklot,g.sbgbkgxrnugrbgvgbmkzksxmgvl gwuzpuib
 tu;gqmrim,grpgrbgqrooglkbgbvcugikoksz,gvl gfuorkzvbugrbagrfwuzpuib
abvbu,grbgquzugqrbmksbgesuabrklg.ubbuzgbkgoubgrbgvoklujgg‘Bragvg vlxuzksa
quvwkl,gbmvbgqroogmrl uzgvl gqksl grbagfvabuz,grpgwsbgrlbkgvlgvqcqvz gvl 
slacropsogmvl :

ggggggggggggggg“Sbgpsuzrbgfuorsaglklg r riraauj”

gggggggggg[“Akgbmvbgrbgquzug.ubbuzglkbgbkgmvnugouvzlu j”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg4j]

Vl gbmra,gwuzv nulbszu,gragbmugzuvaklgqmtglurbmuzgquglkzgbmukokxtgzuesrzu
fsimgouvzlrlxgrlgqkful;gvl gbmvbgPzvlira,g scugkpg.zrbbvlt,gaklgkpgYkmlgNj,
klugbvocrlxgqrbmgmrfgv.ksbgmragfvzzrvxugqrbmgRav.uoovgbmug vsxmbuzgkp
Aikbovl ,gvl gv  rlxgbmvbgamugqvagmkfuotg.zu ,gvl gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
ouvzlrlx,gfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgmugorcu gmuzgbmug.ubbuz,gvl gbmvbgvgqkfvlgqva
qraugulksxm,grpgamugikso g rabrlxsramgmuzgmsa.vl ’agamrzbgpzkfgmra
 ks.oubjggAkgbmvbgrbgraglkgakgxzuvbgqkl uz,gvagbmutgfvcugkpgrb,gbmvbgksz
vliuabkzagmv goubbuzagrlglkgxzuvbuzguabuuf,gvl gbmvbgunulgbkgbmrag vt
bmutgvzug.sbgzvzuotgfubgqrbmgrlgbmugwzrlirwvogiksliroagkpgwzrliua;gvl grp
bmugul gvl g uarxlgkpgviesrzrlxgzrimua,gqmrimgragbmugklotgbmrlxgqu
wzkwkaugbkgkszauonua,g.tgbmugfuvlagkpgovq,gwmtari,gwu vlbzt,gvl gunul
 rnrlrbtgrbauop,g r glkbgswmko gvl gcuuwgbmufgrlgizu rb,gtksgqkso ,gqrbm
 ks.b,gauugbmufgrlgvagwrbrpsogvgikl rbrklgvagunuzjggVl gqmvbgokaagqkso 
bmrag.u,grpgbmutglurbmuzgrlabzsibgsagbkgbmrlcgquooglkzgbkg kgquoo?

gggggggggg“Wkabesvfg kibrgwzk ruzslb,g.klrg uaslbj”

ggggg[Auluiv,gUwj,g95jgg“Arliugbmug‘avnvla’gmvnugfv ugbmurzgvwwuvzvliu
gggggvfklxgsa,gbmugxkk gwukwougmvnug.uikfuguiorwau j”
gggggg--Zksaauvs,g raikszagaszgouagOubbzuaj]

Voogkbmuzgclkqou xugragmszbpsogbkgmrfgqmkgmvaglkbgbmugairuliugkp
xkk luaaj

.sbgbmugzuvaklgRgxovliu gswklg.sbglkq,gfvtgrbglkbgvoakgmuliugwzkiuu ,
bmvb,gkszgabs ruagrlgPzvliugmvnrlxgvofkabglkgkbmuzgvrfg.sbgwzkprb,guhiuwb
vagbkgbmkaugqmk,g.tglvbszug.kzlgbkgkppriuagvl gufwoktfulbagzvbmuzgkp
xokztgbmvlgxvrl,gv  ribgbmufauonuagbkgoubbuza,grpgvbgvoo,gklotgpkzgak
amkzbgvgbrfug(.urlxgbvculgpzkfgbmurzgabs ruag.upkzugbmutgivlgikfugbkgmvnu
vltgbvabugkpgbmuf,gbkgvgwzkpuaarklgbmvbgmvaglkbmrlxgbkg kgqrbmg.kkca),
bmuzugkz rlvzrotgzufvrlglkgkbmuzagbkgvwwotgbmufauonuagqmkootgbkgouvzlrlx,
.sbgwukwougkpgfuvlgikl rbrkl,gqmkgrlgbmvbgklotgauucgbmugfuvlagbkgornu;
vl g.tgasimgwukwou,gqmkaugaksoagvzu,g.kbmg.tglvbszugvl g.tg kfuabri
u sivbrklgvl guhvfwou,gkpgbmug.vauabgvooktgbmugpzsrbagkpgclkqou xugvzu
rffvbszuotgxvbmuzu gvl groog rxuabu ,gvl g uornuzu gbkgbmurzgzuirwrulba
esrbugvlkbmuzgbmrlxjggPkzgrbgraglkbgpkzgclkqou xugbkgulorxmbulgvgakso
bmvbgrag vzcgkpgrbauop,glkzgbkgfvcugvg.orl gfvlgauujggMuzg.sarluaagraglkb
bkgprl gvgfvl’agutua,g.sbgbkgxsr u,gxknuzl,gvl g rzuibgbmuf,gwzknr u gmu
mvnugaksl gpuubgvl gabzvrxmbgouxagbkgxkgswkljggClkqou xugragvlguhiuooulb
 zsx,g.sbglkg zsxgmvagnrzbsugulksxmgbkgwzuauznugrbauopgpzkfgikzzswbrkl
vl g uivt,grpgbmugnuaauog.ugbvrlbu gvl grfwszugqmuzurlgrbgragwsbgbkgcuuwj
Asimgvgklugfvtgmvnugvgarxmbgiouvzgulksxmgqmkgokkcagvaesrlb,gvl 
iklauesulbotgauuagqmvbgragxkk ,g.sbg kuaglkbgpkookqgrb,gvl gauua
clkqou xu,g.sbgfvcuaglkgsaugkpgrbjggWovbk’agwzrlirwvogrlabrbsbrklgrlgmra
Zuws.origragbkgprbgmragirbrdulagqrbmgufwoktfulbagasrbv.ougbkgbmurz
lvbszujggLvbszugivlg kgvoo,gvl g kuagvoojggIzrwwouagvzugnuztgslprbgpkz
uhuzirauagkpgbmug.k t,gvl govfugaksoagpkzguhuzirauagkpgbmugfrl j
 uxuluzvbugvl gnsoxvzgaksoagvzugslqkzbmtgkpgwmrokakwmtjggRpgqugauugv
amkufvcuzgqrbmgmragamkuagksbgvbgbmugbkua,gqugavt,g‘braglkgqkl uz;gpkz,
ikffklot,glklugxkgqkzaugamk gbmvlgbmutjggRlgorcugfvlluz,guhwuzruliugkpbul
wzuaulbagsagvgwmtarirvlgqkzaugwmtaricu ,gvg rnrlugouaagzupkzfu ,gvl 
(iklabvlbot)gvgaimkovzgkpgouaagaspprirulit,gbmvlgkbmuzgwukwouj

Ko gVzrabkgkpgImrkagmv gzuvaklgbkgavtgbmvbgwmrokakwmuzag r gbmurz
vs rbkzagmvzf,gpkzvafsimgvagfkabgkpgbmugaksoagkpgbmkaugbmvbgmuvz gbmuf
quzuglkbgivwv.ougkpg uzrnrlxg.uluprbgpzkfgrlabzsibrkl,gqmrim,grpglkb
vwworu gbkgxkk ,gqkso giuzbvrlotg.ugvwworu gbkgroo:

ggggg[“Bmutgwzkiuu u guppufrlvbug u.vsimuuagpzkfgbmugaimkkogkp
gggggVzrabrwwsa,gitlriagpzkfgbmvbgkpgDulkj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grrrj,g31j]

RlgbmvbguhiuooulbgrlabrbsbrklgbmvbgHulkwmklgvbbzr.sbuagbkgbmugWuzarvla,
qugprl gbmvbgbmutgbvsxmbgbmurzgimro zulgnrzbsu,gvagkbmuzglvbrklag k
oubbuzajggWovbkgbuooagsagbmvbgbmuguo uabgaklgrlgbmurzgzktvogasiiuaarkl
qvagbmsag.zksxmbgsw;gvpbuzgmrag.rzbmgmugqvag uornuzu ,glkbgbkgqkful,g.sb
bkguslsimagkpgbmugxzuvbuabgvsbmkzrbtgv.ksbgbmurzgcrlxagpkzgbmurzgnrzbsu,
qmkaugimvzxugrbgqvagbkgcuuwgmrag.k tgmuvobmpsogvl grlgxkk gworxmb;gvl 
vpbuzgmugivfugbkgaunulgtuvzagkpgvxu,gbkgbuvimgmrfgbkgzr ugvl gbkgxk
v-mslbrlxjggQmulgmugvzzrnu gvbgpkszbuulgmugqvagbzvlapuzzu grlbkgbmugmvl a
kpgpksz,gbmugqrauab,gbmugfkabgysab,gbmugfkabgbufwuzvbu,gvl gfkabgnvorvlb
kpgbmuglvbrkl;gkpgqmkfgbmugprzabgqvagbkgrlabzsibgmrfgrlgzuorxrkl,gbmu
auikl gbkg.ugvoqvtagswzrxmbgvl garliuzu,gbmugbmrz gbkgiklesuzgmra
vwwubrbuagvl g uarzua,gvl gbmugpkszbmgbkg uawraugvoog vlxuzj

Rbgragvgbmrlxgqkzbmtgkpgnuztgxzuvbgiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgrlgbmvbguhiuooulb,
vl ,grlgbzsbm,gpkzgrbagwuzpuibrkl,gwzk rxrksagpkzfgkpgirnrogzuxrfulgaub
 kqlg.tgOtiszxsa,gbmksxmgakgakorirbksagkpgbmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zul,
vagvgbmrlxgkpgbmugxzuvbuabgikliuzl,gvl gunulgrlgbmugnuztgauvbgkpgbmu
Fsaua,gmugamkso gfvcugakgorbbougfulbrklgkpgouvzlrlx;gvagrpgbmvbgxuluzksa
tksbm,g ra vrlrlxgvoogkbmuzgas.yuibrklg.sbgbmvbgkpgnrzbsu,gksxmbgbkg.u
aswworu ,grlabuv gkpgbsbkzagbkgzuv gbkgbmufgvzbagvl gairuliua,gqrbmgasim
fvabuzagvagamkso gklotgrlabzsibgbmufgrlgnvoksz,gwzs uliu,gvl gysabriu;
vlguhvfwougbmvbgWovbkgmvagpkookqu grlgmragovqajggBmugfvlluzgkpgbmurz
 rairworlugqvagbkgwzkwksl gbkgbmufgesuabrklagrlgys xfulbgswklgfulgvl 
bmurzgvibrkla;gvl grpgbmutgikfful u gkzgikl uflu gbmragkzgbmvbgwuzaklgkz
pvib,gbmutgquzugbkgxrnugvgzuvaklgpkzgakg krlx;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmutgvb
kliugamvzwulu gbmurzgsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gouvzlu gqmvbgqvagzrxmbj
Vabtvxua,grlgHulkwmkl,gvacagItzsagbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgmragovabgouaakl;
vl gbmsagrbgqva,g“Vgxzuvbg.ktgrlgkszgaimkko,gmvnrlxgvgorbbougamkzb
ivaakic,g.tgpkziugbkkcgvgoklxuzgpzkfgvlkbmuzgbmvbgqvaglkbgakgbvoogvagmu,
vl gxvnugmrfgmragkqlgrlguhimvlxu:gqmuzuswklgR,g.urlxgvwwkrlbu gys xugkp
bmugiklbzknuzat,gxvnugys xfulb,gbmvbgRgbmksxmbgrbg.uabguvimgamkso gcuuw
bmugikvbgmugmv ,gpkzgbmvbgbmutg.kbmgkpgbmufgquzug.ubbuzgprbbu gqrbmgbmvb
kpgklugvlkbmuzgbmvlgqrbmgbmurzgkql:gswklgqmrimgftgfvabuzgbko gfu,gRgmv 
 klugroo,grlgbmvbgRgmv gklotgiklar uzu gbmugprbluaagkpgbmugxvzfulba,
qmuzuvagRgksxmbgbkgmvnugiklar uzu gbmugysabriugkpgbmugbmrlx,gqmrim
zuesrzu gbmvbglkgklugamkso gmvnugvltbmrlxgpkzir.otgbvculgpzkfgmrfgbmvbgra
mragkqlj”ggVl gItzsagv  agbmvbgmugqvagqmrwwu gpkzgmragwvrla,gvagqugvzugrl
kszgnroovxuagpkzgpkzxubbrlxgbmugprzabgvkzrabgkp------j

ggggg[Ikbbkl’agnuzarklgkpgbmragabkztgikffuliuag rppuzulbot,gvl grlios ua
gggggvgwvaavxugqmrimgraglkbgrlgvltgkpgbmugu rbrklagkpgbmugkzrxrlvog.upkzu
gggggfu:

ggggg“Fvl vlu,grlgHulkwmkl,gvacrlxgItzsagmkqgmugqkso g kgbkgouvzl
gggggysabriu,gvl gbmugkbmuzgnrzbsuagvfklxabgbmugFu ua,gmvnrlxgoupbgvoo
gggggmragfvabuzag.umrl gmrfgrlgWuzarv?ggMugfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgmugmv 
gggggouvzlu gbmkaugbmrlxagoklxgarliu;gbmvbgmragfvabuzgmv gkpbulgfv ugmrf
gggggvgys xugkpgbmug rppuzuliuagvfklxabgmragaimkkopuookqa,gvl gmv gklu
ggggg vtgqmrwwu gmrfgpkzgxrnrlxgvgqzklxgaulbuliuj”--QjIjMj]

Ftgwu vlbgfsabgfvcugfugvgnuztgouvzlu gkzvbrkl,g‘rlgxuluzug ufklabzvbrnk’,
.upkzugmugivlgwuzasv ugfugbmvbgmragaimkkogragorcugslbkgbmvbjggBmutgcluq
mkqgbkgxkgbmugzuv ruabgqvtgbkgqkzc;gvl gauurlxgbmvbgairuliu,gqmulgfkab
zrxmbotgvwworu gvl g.uabgsl uzabkk ,givlg kglkgfkzug.sbgbuvimgsa
wzs uliu,gfkzvogmkluabt,gvl gzuakosbrkl,gbmutgbmksxmbgprb,gvbgprzabgmvl ,
bkgrlrbrvbugbmurzgimro zulgqrbmgbmugclkqou xugkpguppuiba,gvl gbkgrlabzsib
bmuf,glkbg.tgmuvzavtgvl gzkbu,g.sbg.tgbmuguhwuzrfulbgkpgvibrkl,grlgornuot
pkzfrlxgvl gfkso rlxgbmuf;glkbgklotg.tgqkz agvl gwzuiuwba,g.sbgimrupotg.t
qkzcagvl guhvfwoua;gbkgbmugul grbgfrxmbglkbg.ugvgclkqou xugrlgbmugfrl 
klot,g.sbgrbagikfwouhrklgvl gmv.rb:glkbgvlgviesrarbrkl,g.sbgvglvbszvo
wkaauaarkljggKlugvacrlxgbkgbmragwszwkau,gVxuarovsa,gqmvbgmugbmksxmbgfkab
wzkwuzgpkzg.ktagbkgouvzl?gg“Qmvbgbmutgksxmbgbkg kgqmulgbmutgikfugbkg.u
ful,”gavr gmuj--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfagkpgbmugOviu vfklrvlajggZksaauvs
v kwbagbmuguhwzuaarklgrlgmrag raqstagaszgbuagOubbzuaj]--Rbgraglkgqkl uz,
rpgasimgvlgrlabrbsbrklgwzk siu gakgv frzv.ouguppuibaj

Bmutgsau gbkgxk,grbgragavr ,gbkgbmugkbmuzgirbruagkpgXzuuiu,gbkgrlesrzu
ksbgzmubkzrirvla,gwvrlbuza,gvl gfsarirvla;g.sbgbkgOviu vufklgpkz
ouxraovbkza,gfvxrabzvbua,gvl gxuluzvoagkpgvzfrua;gvbgVbmulagbmutgouvzlu 
bkgawuvcgquoo:gmuzugbkg kgquoo;gbmuzugbkg raulxvxugbmufauonuagpzkfgv
akwmrabrivogvzxsfulb,gvl gbkgslzvnuogbmugrfwkabszugkpgivwbrksa
atookxrafa;gmuzugbkgunv ugbmug.vrbagvl gvooszufulbagkpgwouvaszu,gvl gqrbm
vglk.ougikszvxugvl gzuakosbrklgbkgiklesuzgbmugfulviuagkpgpkzbslugvl 
 uvbm;gbmkaugis xuoou gbmurzg.zvrlagv.ksbgqkz a,gbmuaugfv ugrbgbmurz
.sarluaagbkgrlesrzugrlbkgbmrlxa;gbmuzugqvagvlgubuzlvog.v..ougkpgbmu
bklxsu,gmuzugvgiklbrlsvoguhuziraugkpgbmugaksojggVl gbmuzupkzugrbgra
lkbmrlxgabzvlxugrp,gqmulgVlbrwvbuzg ufvl u gkpgbmufgprpbtgimro zulgpkz
mkabvxua,gbmutgfv ugvlaquz,gesrbugiklbzvztgbkgqmvbgqugamkso g k,gbmvb
bmutgqkso gzvbmuzgxrnugmrfgbqriugvagfvltgpsoo-xzkqlgful,gakgfsimg r gbmut
nvosugbmugokaagkpgbmurzgikslbzt’agu sivbrkljggQmulgVxuarovsagikszbu 
Hulkwmklgbkgaul gmragimro zulgbkgAwvzbvgbkg.ug.zu ,g“rbgraglkb,”gavr gmu,
“bmuzugbkgouvzlgokxrigkzgzmubkzri,g.sbgbkg.ugrlabzsibu grlgbmuglk.ouabgkp
voogairuliua,glvfuot,gbmugairuliugbkgk.utgvl gbkgikffvl j”--[Wosbvzim,
OrpugkpgVxuarovsa,gijg7j]

RbgragnuztgwouvavlbgbkgauugAkizvbua,gvpbuzgmragfvlluz,gzvootrlxgMrwwrva,
--[Wovbk’ag rvokxsua:gMrwwrvagFvykzj]--qmkgzuikslbagbkgmrfgqmvbgvgqkzo 
kpgfklutgmugmvagxkb,guawuirvootgrlgiuzbvrlgorbbougnroovxuagkpgArirot,g.t
buvimrlxgaimkko,gvl gbmvbgmugfv uglunuzgvgwulltgvbgAwvzbv:g“Qmvbgv
akbbramgvl gabswr gwukwou,”gavr gAkizvbua,g“vzugbmut,gqrbmksbgaulaugkz
sl uzabvl rlx,gbmvbgfvcuglkgviikslbgurbmuzgkpgxzvffvzgkzgwkubzt,gvl gklot
.satgbmufauonuagrlgabs trlxgbmugxuluvokxruagvl gasiiuaarklagkpgbmurz
crlxa,gbmugpksl vbrkla,gzraua,gvl g uioularklagkpgabvbua,gvl gasimgbvoua
kpgvgbs.!”ggVpbuzgqmrim,gmvnrlxgfv ugMrwwrvagpzkfgklugabuwgbkgvlkbmuz
viclkqou xugbmuguhiuooulitgkpgbmurzgpkzfgkpgws.origv frlrabzvbrkl,gvl 
bmugpuorirbtgvl gnrzbsugkpgbmurzgwzrnvbugorpu,gmugouvnuagmrfgbkgxsuaagvb
bmugikliosarklgmugfvcuagkpgbmugrlsbrorbruagkpgmragwu vlbrigvzbaj

Uhvfwouagmvnug ufklabzvbu gbkgsagbmvbgrlgfrorbvztgvppvrza,gvl gvoogkbmuza
kpgbmugorcugvibrnuglvbszu,gbmugabs tgkpgairuliuagfkzugakpbulagvl 
slbufwuzagbmugikszvxuagkpgfulgbmvlgrbgrlgvltgqvtgpkzbrpruagvl guhirbua
bmufjggBmugfkabgwkbulbgufwrzugbmvbgvbgbmrag vtgvwwuvzagbkg.ugrlgbmugqmkou
qkzo gragbmvbgkpgbmugBszca,gvgwukwouguesvootgrlszu gbkgbmuguabrfvbrklgkp
vzfagvl gbmugiklbufwbgkpgoubbuzajggRgprl gZkfugqvagfkzugnvorvlbg.upkzu
amugxzuqgakgouvzlu jggBmugfkabgqvzorcuglvbrklagvbgbmragbrfugrlg.urlxgvzu
bmugfkabgzs ugvl grxlkzvlb:gbmugAitbmrvla,gbmugWvzbmrvla,gBvfuzovlu,
auznugpkzgaspprirulbgwzkkpgkpgbmrajggQmulgbmugXkbmagknuzzvlgXzuuiu,gbmu
klotgbmrlxgbmvbgwzuauznu gvoogbmugor.zvzruagpzkfgbmugprzugqva,gbmvbgakfu
klugwkaauaau gbmufgqrbmgvlgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmutgquzugbkgouvnugbmragcrl gkp
pszlrbszugulbrzugbkgbmuguluft,gvag.urlxgfkabgwzkwuzgbkg rnuzbgbmufgpzkf
bmuguhuziraugkpgvzfa,gvl gbkgprhgbmufgbkgvgovdtgvl gau ulbvztgorpuj
QmulgkszgCrlxgImvzouagNRRRj,gvofkabgqrbmksbgabzrcrlxgvg.okq,gavqgmrfauop
wkaauaau gkpgbmugcrlx kfgkpgLvwouagvl gvgiklar uzv.ougwvzbgkpgBsaivlt,
bmuglk.ouagv.ksbgmrfgvbbzr.sbu gbmragsluhwuibu gpvirorbtgkpgiklesuabgbk
bmra,gbmvbgbmugwzrliuagvl glk.ouagkpgRbvot,gfkzugabs ru gbkgzul uz
bmufauonuagrlxulrksagvl gouvzlu ,gbmvlgnrxkzksagvl gqvzorcuj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgwvzzkbgqkso gavtgvagfsimgvagbmvb
gggggVxuarovsa,gqmvbgmugbmksxmbgfkabgwzkwuzgpkzg.ktagbkgouvzl?
ggggg.sbgrbgraglkbgulksxmgbmvbgkszgu sivbrklg kuaglkbgawkrogsa
gggggIklairuliu,gqmrimgqugwzubul gbkg.ug uzrnu gpzkfglvbszu
gggggIsoorlxgksbgkpgaunuzvog.kkcagbmugaulbuliuagbmvbg.uabgwouvaugfu
ggggg“Isabkf,”gzuworu gWovbk,g“raglkgorbbougbmrlx”
ggggggU sivbrkl
gggggUhvfrlu,gqmkgrag.ubbuzgouvzlu ,gbmvlgqmkgragfkzugouvzlu 
gggggPuvzgvl g rabzsabgrlnrbugvl g zvqgklgkppuliu
gggggPkzbslugqroogabroog.ugfrabzuaagkpgunulba
gggggPkh,gqmkgpksl gpvsobgqrbmgqmvbgmugikso glkbgk.bvrl
gggggPzsrbagkpgws.origikffkbrklgvzugauo kfgulyktu 
gggggXvnugbmufgluqgvl gfkzugwovsar.ouglvfuagpkzgbmurzguhisau
gggggXrnugfugbrfugbkgzuiknuzgftgabzulxbmgvl gmuvobm
gggggXzuvbgwzuasfwbrklgbkg.ugakgpkl gkpgklu’agkqlgkwrlrkla
gggggXzkaagrfwkabszuagkpgzuorxrkla
gggggMkvztgmuv gvl gzrnuoou gpviugkpgvlirulbgsavxu
gggggMko gvgabrppgzurlgswklgasawrirkl
gggggRgmvnugvgxzuvbgvnuzarklgpzkfgvglknuobt
gggggClkqou xugraglkbgakgv.akosbuotgluiuaavztgvagys xfulb
gggggOvqag kgqmvbgbmutgivl,gqmulgbmutgivllkbg kgqmvbgbmutgqkso 
gggggFvlgivlglunuzg.ugqraug.sbg.tgmragkqlgqra kf
gggggFufkzruagvzugpsoogulksxm,g.sbgbmugys xfulbgbkbvootgnkr 
gggggFrzviouagvwwuvzgbkg.ugak,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgrxlkzvliugkpglvbszu
gggggLkbmrlxglk.ougivlg.ugwuzpkzfu gqrbmksbg vlxuz
gggggKlotgaubgbmugmsfkszagbmutgqkso gwszxugfkzugnrkoulbotgrlgqkzc
gggggKsxmbglkbgbkguhwuibgfsimgurbmuzgpzkfgmragnrxrovliugkzgwkquz
gggggKsxmbgbkgqrbm zvqgvl gzubrzugmragaksogpzkfgbmugizkq 
gggggKnuz-irzisfawuibgvl gqvztgwzs uliugragvgfkzbvoguluft
gggggWmtari
gggggWmtarirvlgqkzaugwmtaricu 
gggggWovtagkpgimro zulgvzuglkbgwuzpkzfu grlgwovt
gggggWzuaulbgmrfauopgqrbmgvgmvobuzgv.ksbgmragluicgbkgbmugwukwou
gggggZkfugqvagfkzugnvorvlbg.upkzugamugxzuqgakgouvzlu 
gggggAbs tgbkg uiovzugqmvbgragysabriu,g.sbglunuzgbkkcgivzugbkg kgrbj
gggggBuabrfkltgkpgbmugbzsbmgpzkfgfrl agwzuwkaauaau g.tgisabkf?
gggggBmutglurbmuzgrlabzsibgsagbkgbmrlcgquooglkzgbkg kgquoo
gggggBmrlcgkpgwmtarigvagfsimgxkk gkzgroogvagvltgklugqkso gmvnugfu
gggggSaugnuroagpzkfgsagbmugbzsugvawuibgkpgbmrlxa
gggggNribkzrksagulnru gbmugiklesuzu 
gggggQugklotgov.kszgbkgabsppgbmugfufkzt
gggggQugbvcugkbmuzgful’agclkqou xugvl gkwrlrklagswklgbzsab
gggggQuvcluaagvl grlabv.rorbtgkpgvgwzrnvbugvl gwvzbrisovzgpvlit
gggggQmvbgbmutgksxmbgbkg kgqmulgbmutgikfugbkg.ugful
gggggQmkakunuzg uawrauagmragkqlgorpu,gragvoqvtagfvabuz
gggggQkzaugul szugvlgroo-iklbzrnu gzk.ugbmvlgvlgroo-iklbzrnu gfrl 






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg5j

HHNjggggggKpgbmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zulj
HHNRjgggggBmvbgrbgragpkootgbkgfuvaszugbzsbmgvl guzzkzg.tgkszgkql
ggggggggggivwvirbtj




IMVWBUZgHHN

KPgBMUgU SIVBRKLgKPgIMRO ZUL

BKgFV VFUg RVLUg UgPKRH,gIkfbuaaug ugXszakl

Rglunuzgtubgavqgbmvbgpvbmuz,g.sbgoubgmragaklg.uglunuzgakg uizuwrbgkz
 upkzfu ,gqkso glkb,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gkqlgmrf:glkb,glunuzbmuouaa,grpgmu
quzuglkbgbkbvootg.uakbbu ,gvl g.orl u gqrbmgmragwvbuzlvogvppuibrkl,gbmvb
mug r glkbgquoogulksxmg raiuzlgmrag upuiba;g.sbgbmvbgqrbmgvoog upvsobagmu
qvagabroogmrajggYsabgak,gRgauug.ubbuzgbmvlgvltgkbmuz,gbmvbgvoogRgqzrbu
muzugvzug.sbgbmugr ougzunuzruagkpgvgfvlgbmvbgmvagklotglr..ou gswklgbmu
ksbqvz gizsabgkpgairuliuagrlgmraglklvxu,gvl gklotgzubvrlu gvgxuluzvogvl 
pkzfouaagrfvxugkpgbmuf;gqmkgmvagxkbgvgorbbougalvbimgkpgunuztbmrlxgvl 
lkbmrlxgkpgbmugqmkou,g‘vgovgPzvlikrau’jggPkzgRgclkq,grlgxuluzvo,gbmvb
bmuzugragasimgvgbmrlxgvagwmtari,gvagyszrawzs uliu:gpkszgwvzbagrl
fvbmufvbria,gvl ,gzksxmot,gqmvbgvoogbmuaugvrfgvl gwkrlbgvb;gvl ,
wuzv nulbszu,gRgtubgclkqgpvzbmuz,gqmvbgairuliuagrlgxuluzvogwzubul gslbk,
rlgkz uzgbkgbmugauznriugkpgkszgorpu:g.sbgbkg rnugpvzbmuzgbmvlgbmvb,gvl 
bkgmvnugis xuoou gftg.zvrlagrlgbmugabs tgkpgVzrabkbou,gbmugfklvzimgkpgvoo
fk uzlgouvzlrlx,gkzgwvzbrisovzotgv  ribu gftauopgbkgvltgklugairuliu,
Rgmvnuglunuzg klugrb;glurbmuzgragbmuzugvltgklugvzbgkpgqmrimgRgvfgv.ougbk
 zvqgbmugprzabgorluvfulbagvl g uv gikoksz;grlakfsimgbmvbgbmuzugraglkbgv
.ktgkpgbmugokquabgpkzfgrlgvgaimkko,gbmvbgfvtglkbgwzubul gbkg.ugqrauzgbmvl
R,gqmkgvfglkbgv.ougbkguhvfrlugmrfgrlgmragprzabgouaakl,gqmrim,grpgRgvfgvb
vltgbrfugpkziu gswkl,gRgvfgluiuaarbvbu grlgftgkqlg upuliu,gbkgvacgmrf,
slvwbotgulksxm,gakfugslrnuzavogesuabrkla,gasimgvagfvtgauznugbkgbztgmra
lvbszvogsl uzabvl rlx;gvgouaaklgvagabzvlxugvl gslclkqlgbkgmrf,gvagmragra
bkgfuj

Rglunuzgauzrksaotgaubbou gftauopgbkgbmugzuv rlxgvltg.kkcgkpgakor 
ouvzlrlxg.sbgWosbvzimgvl gAuluiv;gvl gbmuzu,gorcugbmug vlvr ua,gR
ubuzlvootgproo,gvl grbgvagiklabvlbotgzslagksb;gakfubmrlxgkpgqmrimg zkwa
swklgbmragwvwuz,g.sbgorbbougkzglkbmrlxgabvtagqrbmgfujgMrabkztgragft
wvzbrisovzgxvfugvagbkgfvbbuzgkpgzuv rlx,gkzguoaugwkubzt,gpkzgqmrimgRgmvnu
wvzbrisovzgcrl luaagvl guabuuf:gpkz,gvagIouvlbmuagavr ,gvagbmugnkriu,
pkziu gbmzksxmgbmuglvzzkqgwvaavxugkpgvgbzsfwub,gikfuagksbgfkzugpkzir.ou
vl gamzroo:gak,gfubmrlca,gvgaulbuliugwzuaau gqrbmrlgbmugmvzfkltgkpgnuzau
 vzbagksbgfkzug.zracotgswklgbmugsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gabzrcuagftguvzgvl 
vwwzumularklgqrbmgvgafvzbuzgvl gfkzugwouvarlxguppuibjggVagbkgbmuglvbszvo
wvzbagRgmvnu,gkpgqmrimgbmragragbmuguaavt,gRgprl gbmufgbkg.kqgsl uzgbmu
.sz ul;gftgpvlitgvl gys xfulbg kg.sbgxzkwugrlgbmug vzc,gbzrwwrlxgvl 
absf.orlxgrlgbmugqvt;gvl gqmulgRgmvnugxklugvagpvzgvagRgivl,gRgvfgrlglk
 uxzuugavbrapru ;gRg raiknuzgabroogvgluqgvl gxzuvbuzguhbulbgkpgovl 
.upkzugfu,gqrbmgvgbzks.ou gvl grfwuzpuibgarxmbgvl gqzvwwu gswgrlgioks a,
bmvbgRgvfglkbgv.ougbkgwulubzvbujggVl gbvcrlxgswklgfugbkgqzrbu
rl rppuzulbotgkpgqmvbunuzgikfuagrlbkgftgmuv ,gvl gbmuzurlgfvcrlxgsaugkp
lkbmrlxg.sbgftgkqlgwzkwuzgvl glvbszvogfuvla,grpgrbg.upvoogfu,gva
kpb-brfuagrbg kua,gviir ulbvootgbkgfuubgrlgvltgxkk gvsbmkz,gbmugavfugmuv a
vl gikffklwoviuagswklgqmrimgRgmvnugvbbufwbu gbkgqzrbug(vagRg r g.sbgysab
lkqgrlgWosbvzim’ag“ raikszaugkpgbmugPkziugkpgRfvxrlvbrkl”),gbkgauugftauop
akgquvcgvl gakgpkzokzl,gakgmuvntgvl gakgpovb,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmkau
.ubbuzgqzrbuza,gRgvbgkliugwrbtgkzg uawraugftauopjggTubg kgRgwouvaugftauop
qrbmgbmra,gbmvbgftgkwrlrklagmvnugkpbulgbmugmklkszgvl gxkk gpkzbslugbk
ysfwgqrbmgbmurza,gvl gbmvbgRgxkgrlgbmugavfugwvbm,gbmksxmgvbgvgnuztgxzuvb
 rabvliu,gvl givlgavt,g“Vm,gbmvbgragakj”ggRgvfgpvzbmuzgavbrapru gbkgprl 
bmvbgRgmvnugvgesvorbt,gqmrimgunuztgklugraglkbg.ouaau gqrbmvo,gqmrimgra,
bkg raiuzlgbmugnvabg rppuzuliug.ubquulgbmufgvl gfu;gvl glkbqrbmabvl rlx
voogbmvb,gasppuzgftgkqlgrlnulbrkla,gokqgvl gpuu.ougvagbmutgvzu,gbkgzslgkl
rlgbmurzgivzuuz,gqrbmksbgful rlxgkzgwovabuzrlxgswgbmug upuibagbmvbgbmra
ikfwvzraklgmvagovr gkwulgbkgftgkqlgnruqjggVl ,grlgwovrlgbzsbm,gvgfvlgmv 
luu gkpgvgxkk gabzklxg.vicgbkgcuuwgwviugqrbmgbmuaugwukwoujggBmu
rl raizuubgaizr..ouzagkpgkszgbrfua,gqmk,gvfklxabgbmurzgov.kzrksa
lkbmrlxa,grlauzbgqmkougauibrklagvl gwvxuagksbgkpgvlirulbgvsbmkza,gqrbmgv
 uarxl,g.tgbmvbgfuvla,gbkgroosabzvbugbmurzgkqlgqzrbrlxa,g kgesrbu
iklbzvzt;gpkzgbmragrlprlrbug raarfrorbs ugkpgkzlvfulbagzul uzagbmu
ikfwouhrklgkpgbmurzgkqlgikfwkarbrklagakgavookqgvl g upkzfu ,gbmvbgbmut
okaugfsimgfkzugbmvlgbmutgxubj

Bmugwmrokakwmuza,gImztarwwsagvl gUwriszsa,gquzugrlgbmragkpgbqkgesrbu
iklbzvztgmsfksza:gbmugprzabglkbgklotgrlgmrag.kkcagfrhu gwvaavxuagvl 
avtrlxagkpgkbmuzgvsbmkza,g.sbgulbrzugwruiua,gvl ,grlgklu,gbmugqmkougFu uv
kpgUszrwr ua;gqmrimgxvnugVwkook kzsagkiivarklgbkgavt,gbmvbgamkso gvgfvl
wricgksbgkpgmragqzrbrlxagvoogbmvbgqvaglklugkpgmra,gmugqkso gouvnugmrf
lkbmrlxg.sbg.ovlcgwvwuz:gqmuzuvagbmugovbbuz,gesrbugklgbmugiklbzvzt,grl
bmzuugmsl zu gnkosfuagbmvbgmugoupbg.umrl gmrf,gmvaglkbgakgfsimgvagklu
eskbvbrklj--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gOrnuagkpgImttarwwsa,gnrrjg181,gvl 
Uwriszsa,ghjg26j]

Rgmvwwulu gbmugkbmuzg vtgswklgbmragwruiugkpgpkzbslu;gRgqvagzuv rlxgv
Pzulimg.kkc,gqmuzugvpbuzgRgmv gvgoklxgbrfugzslg zuvfrlxgknuzgvgxzuvbgfvlt
qkz a,gakg soo,gakgrlarwr ,gakgnkr gkpgvoogqrbgkzgikffklgaulau,gbmvb
rl uu gbmutgquzugklotgPzulimgqkz a:gvpbuzgvgoklxgvl gbu rksagbzvnuo,gR
ivfugvbgovabgbkgfuubgqrbmgvgwruiugbmvbgqvagokpbt,gzrim,gvl guounvbu gbk
bmugnuztgioks a;gkpgqmrim,gmv gRgpksl gurbmuzgbmug uiornrbtguvatgkzgbmu
vaiulbgxzv svo,gbmuzugmv g.uulgakfuguhisau;g.sbgrbgqvagakgwuzwul risovz
vgwzuirwriu,gvl gakgqmkootgisbgkppgpzkfgbmugzuabgkpgbmugqkzc,gbmvbg.tgbmu
przabgarhgqkz a,gRgpksl gftauopgpotrlxgrlbkgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ,gvl gbmuliu
 raiknuzu gbmugnvougqmuliugRgivfugakg uuwgvl gokq,gbmvbgRgmvnuglunuzgmv 
arliugbmugmuvzbgbkg uaiul grlbkgrbgvltgfkzujggRpgRgamkso gaubgksbgklugkp
ftg raikszauagqrbmgasimgzrimgawkroagvagbmuau,grbgqkso g.sbgbkkgunr ulbot
fvlrpuabgbmugrfwuzpuibrklgkpgftgkqlgqzrbrlxjggBkgzuwzumul gbmugpvsobgrl
kbmuzagbmvbgRgvfgxsrobtgkpgftauop,gvwwuvzagbkgfuglkgfkzugslzuvaklv.ou,
bmvlgbkgikl ufl,gvagRgkpbulg k,gbmkaugkpgkbmuzagrlgftauop:gbmutgvzugbkg.u
unuztqmuzugzuwzknu ,gvl gksxmbgbkgmvnuglkgavlibsvztgvookqu gbmufjggRgclkq
nuztgquoogmkqgvs virksaotgRgftauop,gvbgunuztgbszl,gvbbufwbgbkguesvo
ftauopgbkgftgbmupba,gvl gbkgfvcugftgabtougxkgmvl grlgmvl gqrbmgbmuf,glkb
qrbmksbgvgbufuzvzrksagmkwugkpg uiurnrlxgbmugutuagkpgftgzuv uzgpzkf
 raiuzlrlxgbmug rppuzuliu;g.sbgqrbmvogrbgragvagfsimg.tgbmug.uluprbgkpgft
vwworivbrkl,gbmvbgRgmkwugbkg kgrb,gvag.tgbmvbgkpgftgrlnulbrklgkzgvlt
pkziugkpgftgkqljgg.uar ua,gRg kglkbgkppuzgbkgiklbul gqrbmgbmugqmkoug.k t
kpgbmuaugimvfwrkla,glkzgmvl gbkgmvl gqrbmgvltklugkpgbmuf:g‘bragklotg.t
porxmbagvl gorbbougorxmbgvbbufwbagbmvbgRgulxvxugbmuf;gRg kglkbgxzvwwou
qrbmgbmuf,g.sbgbztgbmurzgabzulxbmgklot,gvl glunuzgulxvxugakgpvzgvagRgfvcu
vgamkqgbkg kjggRpgRgikso gmko gbmufgrlgwovt,gRgquzugvg.zvnugpuookq;gpkzgR
lunuzgvbbvicgbmuf;g.sbgqmuzugbmutgvzugfkabgarluqtgvl gabzklxjggBkgiknuzgv
fvl’agauopg(vagRgmvnugauulgakfug k)gqrbmgvlkbmuzgfvl’agvzfksz,gakgvaglkb
bkg raiknuzgakgfsimgvagmragprlxuza’gul a;gbkgivzztgklgvg uarxlg(vagrbgra
lkbgmvz gpkzgvgfvlgbmvbgmvagvltbmrlxgkpgvgaimkovzgrlgmrf,grlgvlgkz rlvzt
as.yuibgbkg k)gsl uzgko grlnulbrklagwvbimu gswgmuzugvl gbmuzugqrbmgmra
kqlgbzsfwuzt,gvl gbmulgbkgul uvnkszgbkgikliuvogbmugbmupb,gvl gbkgfvcugrb
wvaagpkzgmragkql,gragprzabgrlysabriugvl gfuvlluaagkpgawrzrbgrlgbmkaugqmk
 kgrb,gqmkgmvnrlxglkbmrlxgrlgbmufgkpgbmurzgkqlgprbgbkgwzkiszugbmufgv
zuwsbvbrkl,gul uvnkszgbkg kgrbg.tgvbbufwbrlxgbkgrfwkaugbmrlxagswklgbmu
qkzo grlgbmurzgkqlglvfu,gqmrimgbmutgmvnuglkgfvlluzgkpgbrbougbk;gvl gluhb,
vgzr risoksagpkootgbkgiklbulbgbmufauonuagqrbmgviesrzrlxgbmugrxlkzvlb
vwwzk.vbrklgkpgbmugnsoxvzg.tgasimgvgwrbrpsogimuvb,gvbgbmugwzriugvbgbmu
avfugbrfugkpg uxzv rlxgbmufauonuagrlgbmugutuagkpgfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlx,
qmkgbszlgswgbmurzglkauagvbgvoogbmrag.kzzkqu grlizsabvbrkl,gtubgqmkau
wzvraugvoklugragqkzbmgbmugmvnrlxjggPkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgR
qkso glkbgakkluzg kgbmvlgbmvb,glurbmuzgmvnugRgavr gakgfsimgkpgkbmuza,g.sb
bkgxubgvg.ubbuzgkwwkzbslrbtgbkguhwovrlgftauopjggLkzgrlgbmrag kgRgxovliu
vbgbmugikfwkauzagkpgiulbka,gqmkg uiovzugbmufauonuagpkzgasim;gkpgqmrim
akzbgkpgqzrbuzagRgmvnugrlgftgbrfugclkqlgfvltgnuztgrlxulrksa,gvl 
wvzbrisovzotgklugsl uzgbmuglvfugkpgIvwroswsa,g.uar uagbmugvlirulbaj
Bmuaugvzugzuvootgfulgkpgqrb,gvl gbmvbgfvcugrbgvwwuvzgbmutgvzugak,g.kbmg.t
bmvbgvl gkbmuzgqvtagkpgqzrbrlx;gvagpkzguhvfwou,gOrwarsa,grlgbmvbgouvzlu 
vl gov.kzrksagiklbuhbszugkpgmragWkorbriaj

.sb,g.ugrbgmkqgrbgqroo,gvl gmkqgrliklar uzv.ougakunuzgbmuaugrluwbrbs ua
fvtg.u,gRgqroogavtgRglunuzgrlbul u gbkgikliuvogbmuf,glkgfkzugbmvlgftgko 
.vo gxzrddou gorculuaag.upkzugbmuf,gqmuzugbmugwvrlbuzgmvagwzuaulbu gtks
lkbgqrbmgvgwuzpuibgpviu,g.sbgqrbmgfrlujggPkzgbmuaugvzugftgkqlgwvzbrisovz
kwrlrklagvl gpvlirua,gvl gRg uornuzgbmufgvagklotgqmvbgRgftauopg.uorunu,
vl glkbgpkzgqmvbgragbkg.ug.uorunu g.tgkbmuzajggRgmvnuglkgkbmuzgul grl
bmragqzrbrlx,g.sbgklotgbkg raiknuzgftauop,gqmk,gvoakgamvoo,gwuzv nulbszu,
.ugvlkbmuzgbmrlxgbk-fkzzkq,grpgRgimvliugbkgfuubgvltgluqgrlabzsibrklgbk
imvlxugfujggRgmvnuglkgvsbmkzrbtgbkg.ug.uorunu ,glurbmuzg kgRg uarzugrb,
.urlxgbkkgiklairksagkpgftgkqlgrluzs rbrklgbkg.ugv.ougbkgrlabzsibgkbmuzaj

Akfugklu,gbmul,gmvnrlxgauulgbmugwzuiu rlxgimvwbuz,gbmugkbmuzg vtgbko gfu
vbgftgmksau,gbmvbgRgamkso gvgorbbougpvzbmuzgmvnuguhbul u gftg raikszaugkl
bmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zulj--[“Qmrim,gmkqgprbgRgvfgbkg k,goubgftgpzrul a
povbbuzgfugrpgbmutgwouvau,gRgmvnugrlgbmugfuvlbrfuglkgasimgkwrlrklgkpgft
kqlgbvoulb,gvagbkgwzkfraugftauopgvltgnuztgxkk gasiiuaagpzkfgft
ul uvnkszj”ggBmragwvaavxugqkso gvwwuvzgbkg.ugvlgrlbuzwkovbrklg.tgIkbbklj
Vbgvoogunulba,gRg kglkbgprl grbgrlgbmugkzrxrlvogu rbrklag.upkzugfu,gkzgrl
Ikabuj]--

Lkq,gfv vf,grpgRgmv gvltgaspprirulitgrlgbmragas.yuib,gRgikso glkb
wkaar.otg.ubbuzgufwoktgrb,gbmvlgbkgwzuaulbgftg.uabgrlabzsibrklagbkgbmu
orbbougfvlgbmvbgbmzuvbulagtksgamkzbotgqrbmgvgmvwwtg.rzbmg(pkzgtksgvzugbkk
xuluzksagbkg.uxrlgkbmuzqraugbmvlgqrbmgvgfvou);gpkz,gmvnrlxgmv gakgxzuvbgv
mvl grlgbmugbzuvbtgkpgtkszgfvzzrvxu,gRgmvnugvgiuzbvrlgwvzbrisovzgzrxmb
vl grlbuzuabgrlgbmugxzuvbluaagvl gwzkawuzrbtgkpgbmugraasugbmvbgamvoo
awzrlxgpzkfgrb;g.uar ugbmvb,gtkszgmvnrlxgmv gbmug.uabgkpgftgauznriuagak
oklxgrlgwkaauaarkl,gaspprirulbotgk.orxuagfugbkg uarzugbmugmklkszgvl 
v nvlbvxugkpgvoogqmuzurlgtksgamvoog.ugikliuzlu jgg.sb,grlgbzsbm,gvoogR
sl uzabvl gvagbkgbmvbgwvzbrisovzgragklotgbmra,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkab
rfwkzbvlbg rpprisobtgkpgmsfvlgairuliugragbmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zuljggPkz
vagrlgvxzrisobszu,gbmugmsa.vl ztgbmvbgragbkgwzuiu ugwovlbrlx,gvagvoak
wovlbrlxgrbauop,gragiuzbvrl,gwovrl,gvl gquoogclkql;g.sbgvpbuzgbmvbgqmrim
ragwovlbu gikfuagbkgorpu,gbmuzugragvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugbkg.ug klu,gfkzugvzb
bkg.ugsau ,gfkzugivzugbkg.ugbvcul,gvl gfsimgfkzug rpprisobtgbkgisobrnvbu
vl g.zrlxgrbgbkgwuzpuibrklgakgrbgragqrbmgful;grbgraglkgmvz gfvbbuzgbkgxub
imro zul;g.sbgvpbuzgbmutgvzug.kzl,gbmulg.uxrlagbmugbzks.ou,gakorirbs u,
vl givzugzrxmbotgbkgbzvrl,gwzrlirwou,gvl g.zrlxgbmufgswjggBmugatfwbkfagkp
bmurzgrliorlvbrklagrlgbmvbgbul uzgvxugvzugakgk.aiszu,gvl gbmugwzkfrauagak
sliuzbvrlgvl gpvoovirksa,gbmvbgrbgragnuztgmvz gbkguabv.oramgvltgakor 
ys xfulbgkzgiklyuibszugswklgbmufjggOkkcgvbgIrfkl,gpkzguhvfwou,gvl 
Bmufrabkioua,gvl gvgbmksavl gkbmuza,gqmkgnuztgfsimg uiurnu gbmu
uhwuibvbrklgfulgmv gkpgbmufjggIs.agkpg.uvzagvl gwswwruagzuv rotg raiknuz
bmurzglvbszvogrliorlvbrkl;g.sbgful,gakgakklgvagunuzgbmutgvzugxzkqlsw,
vwwotrlxgbmufauonuagbkgiuzbvrlgmv.rba,gulxvxrlxgbmufauonuagrlgiuzbvrl
kwrlrkla,gvl giklpkzfrlxgbmufauonuagbkgwvzbrisovzgovqagvl gisabkfa,
uvarotgvobuz,gkzgvbgouvabg raxsrau,gbmurzgbzsugvl gzuvog rawkarbrkl;gvl 
tubgrbgragmvz gbkgpkziugbmugwzkwularklgkpglvbszujggQmuliugrbgikfuagbk
wvaa,gbmvbgpkzglkbgmvnrlxgimkaulgbmugzrxmbgikszau,gqugkpbulgbvcugnuzt
xzuvbgwvrla,gvl giklasfugvgxkk gwvzbgkpgkszgbrfugrlgbzvrlrlxgswgimro zul
bkgbmrlxa,gpkzgqmrim,g.tgbmurzglvbszvogiklabrbsbrkl,gbmutgvzugbkbvoot
slprbjggRlgbmrag rpprisobt,glunuzbmuouaa,gRgvfgiouvzotgkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvb
bmutgksxmbgbkg.uguoufulbu grlgbmug.uabgvl gfkabgv nvlbvxuksagabs rua,
qrbmksbgbvcrlxgbkkgfsimglkbriugkp,gkzg.urlxgbkkgaswuzabrbrksagrlgbmkau
orxmbgwzkxlkabriagbmutgxrnugkpgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzgbul uzgtuvza,gvl gbk
qmrimgWovbk,grlgmragZuws.ori,gxrnua,gfubmrlca,gbkkgfsimgvsbmkzrbtj

Fv vf,gairuliugragvgnuztgxzuvbgkzlvfulb,gvl gvgbmrlxgkpgfvznuooksagsau,
uawuirvootgrlgwuzaklagzvrau gbkgbmvbg uxzuugkpgpkzbslugrlgqmrimgtksgvzuj
Vl ,grlgbzsbm,grlgwuzaklagkpgfuvlgvl gokqgikl rbrkl,grbgivllkbgwuzpkzf
rbagbzsugvl gxulsrlugkppriu,g.urlxglvbszvootgfkzugwzkfwbgbkgvaarabgrlgbmu
ikl sibgkpgqvz,grlgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgwukwoua,grlgluxkbrvbrlxgbmugouvxsua
vl gpzrul amrwagkpgwzrliuagvl gpkzurxlglvbrkla,gbmvlgrlgpkzfrlxgv
atookxrafgrlgokxri,grlgwouv rlxgvgwzkiuaagrlgovq,gkzgrlgwzuaizr.rlxgv
 kaugkpgwrooagrlgwmtarijggQmuzupkzu,gfv vf,g.uorunrlxgtksgqrooglkbgkfrb
bmragakgluiuaavztgpuvbszugrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgtkszgimro zul,gqmkgtkszauop
mvnugbvabu grbagaquubluaa,gvl gvzugkpgvgouvzlu guhbzvibrklg(pkzgqugtub
mvnugbmugqzrbrlxagkpgbmugvlirulbgIkslbagkpgPkrh,gpzkfgqmkfgftgokz ,gtksz
msa.vl ,gvl gtkszauop,gvzug.kbmgkpgtksg uaiul u ,gvl gFklaruszg u
Ivl vou,gtkszgsliou,gunuztg vtgk.orxuagbmugqkzo gqrbmgkbmuza,gqmrimgqroo
uhbul gbmugclkqou xugkpgbmragesvorbtgrlgtkszgpvfrotgpkzgakgfvlt
asiiuu rlxgvxua),gRgqroo,gswklgbmragkiivarkl,gwzuasfugbkgviesvrlbgtksz
ov tamrwgqrbmgklugwvzbrisovzgpvlitgkpgftgkql,giklbzvztgbkgbmugikffkl
fubmk ,gqmrimgragvoogRgvfgv.ougbkgiklbzr.sbugbkgtkszgauznriugrlgbmra
vppvrzj

Bmugimvzxugkpgbmugbsbkzgtksgamvoogwzknr ugpkzgtkszgakl,gswklgbmugimkriu
kpgqmkfg uwul agbmugqmkougasiiuaagkpgmragu sivbrkl,gmvagaunuzvogkbmuz
xzuvbgvl giklar uzv.ougwvzbagvl g sbruagzuesrzu grlgakgrfwkzbvlbgvgbzsab,
.uar uagbmvbgkpgqmrimgRgvfgv.ksbgbkgawuvc:gbmuau,gmkqunuz,gRgamvooglkb
fulbrkl,gvag.urlxgslv.ougbkgv  gvltbmrlxgkpgfkfulbgbkgbmugikffklgzsoua:
vl grlgbmra,gqmuzurlgRgbvcugswklgfugbkgv nrau,gmugfvtgpkookqgrbgakgpvz
klotgvagrbgamvoogvwwuvzgv nrav.ouj

Pkzgv,g.ktgkpgesvorbtgbmul,gqmkgwzubul agbkgoubbuzaglkbgswklgbmugviikslb
kpgwzkprbg(pkzgakgfuvlgvlgk.yuibgragslqkzbmtgkpgbmugxzviugvl gpvnksz
kpgbmugFsaua,gvl gfkzuknuz,grlgrbgvgfvlg rzuibagmragauznriugbkgvl 
 uwul agswklgkbmuza),glkzgakgfsimgpkzgksbqvz gkzlvfulb,gvagpkzgmragkql
wzkwuzgvl gwuisorvzgsau,gvl gbkgpszlramgvl gulzrimgmrfauopgqrbmrl,gmvnrlx
zvbmuzgvg uarzugbkgikfugksbgvlgviikfworamu givnvoruzgbmvlgvgfuzugaimkovz
kzgouvzlu gfvl;gpkzgasimgvgklu,gRgavt,gRgqkso ,gvoak,gmvnugmragpzrul a
akorirbksagbkgprl gmrfgksbgvgbsbkz,gqmkgmvagzvbmuzgvgquoo-fv ugbmvlgv
quoo-proou gmuv ;--[“‘Bubug.rulgpvrbu’,gvlguhwzuaarklgizuvbu g.t
Fklbvrxlu,gvl gqmrimgmvagzufvrlu gvgwvzbgkpgkszgovlxsvxuj”--Auznvlj]--
auucrlx,grl uu ,g.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,g.sbgzvbmuzgkpgbmugbqkgbk
wzupuzgfvlluzagvl gys xfulbgbkgfuzugouvzlrlx,gvl gbmvbgbmragfvlgamkso 
uhuziraugmragimvzxugvpbuzgvgluqgfubmk j

‘Bragbmugisabkfgkpgwu vxkxsuagbkg.ugubuzlvootgbmsl uzrlxgrlgbmurzgwswro’a
uvza,gvagbmutgquzugwkszrlxgrlbkgvgpslluo,gqmroabgbmug.sarluaagkpgbmu
wswrogragklotgbkgzuwuvbgqmvbgbmugkbmuzagmvnugavr :glkqgRgqkso gmvnugv
bsbkzgbkgikzzuibgbmraguzzkz,gvl ,gbmvbgvbgbmugnuztgprzab,gmugamkso 
viikz rlxgbkgbmugivwvirbtgmugmvagbkg uvogqrbm,gwsbgrbgbkgbmugbuab,
wuzfrbbrlxgmragwswrogmrfauopgbkgbvabugbmrlxa,gvl gkpgmrfauopgbkg raiuzl
vl gimkkaugbmuf,gakfubrfuagkwulrlxgbmugqvtgbkgmrf,gvl gakfubrfuagouvnrlx
mrfgbkgkwulgrbgpkzgmrfauop;gbmvbgra,gRgqkso glkbgmvnugmrfgvoklugbkgrlnulb
vl gawuvc,g.sbgbmvbgmugamkso gvoakgmuvzgmragwswrogawuvcgrlgbszlj
Akizvbua,gvl garliugmrfgVziuarovsa,gfv ugprzabgbmurzgaimkovzagawuvc,gvl 
bmulgbmutgawkcugbkgbmuf--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grnjg36j]

ggggggggggggggg“K.uabgwouzsfesugrra,gesrg raiuzugnkoslb,
gggggggggggggggvsibkzrbvagukzsf,gesrg kiulbj”

ggggg[“Bmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmkaugqmkgbuvim,gragnuztgkpbulgvlgrfwu rfulbgbk
gggggbmkaugqmkg uarzugbkgouvzlj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grjg5j]

Rbgragxkk gbkgfvcugmrf,gorcugvgtkslxgmkzau,gbzkbg.upkzugmrf,gbmvbgmugfvt
ys xugkpgmragxkrlx,gvl gmkqgfsimgmugragbkgv.vbugkpgmragkqlgawuu ,gbk
viikffk vbugmrfauopgbkgbmugnrxkszgvl givwvirbtgkpgbmugkbmuzjggPkzgqvlbgkp
qmrimg sugwzkwkzbrklgqugawkrogvoo;gqmrimgvoakgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgv ysab,gvl 
bkgcuuwgqrbmrlgvlguhvibgvl g sugfuvaszu,gragklugkpgbmugmvz uabgbmrlxagR
clkq,gvl g‘bragbmuguppuibgkpgvgmrxmgvl gquoo-bufwuzu gakso,gbkgclkqgmkq
bkgikl uaiul gbkgasimgwsuzrougfkbrklagvl gbkgxknuzlgvl g rzuibgbmufj
Rgqvocgprzfuzgvl gfkzugauiszugswgmroogbmvlg kqlj

Asimgva,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgikffklgqvtgkpgbuvimrlx,gsl uzbvcu,gqrbmgklugvl 
bmugavfugouaakl,gvl gbmugavfugfuvaszugkpg rzuibrkl,gbkgrlabzsibgaunuzvo
.ktagkpg rppuzrlxgvl gsluesvogivwvirbrua,gvzugrlprlrbuotgfrabvcul;gvl 
‘braglkgqkl uz,grpgrlgvgqmkougfsobrbs ugkpgaimkovza,gbmuzugvzuglkbgpksl 
v.knugbqkgkzgbmzuugqmkg.zrlxgvqvtgvltgxkk gviikslbgkpgbmurzgbrfugvl 
 rairworlujggOubgbmugfvabuzglkbgklotguhvfrlugmrfgv.ksbgbmugxzvffvbrivo
iklabzsibrklgkpgbmug.vzugqkz agkpgmragouaakl,g.sbgv.ksbgbmugaulaugvl goub
mrfgys xugkpgbmugwzkprbgmugmvagfv u,glkbg.tgbmugbuabrfkltgkpgmragfufkzt,
.sbg.tgbmvbgkpgmragorpujggOubgmrfgfvcugmrfgwsbgqmvbgmugmvagouvzlu grlbkgv
msl zu gaunuzvogpkzfa,gvl gviikffk vbugrbgbkgakgfvltgaunuzvogas.yuiba,gbk
auugrpgmugtubgzrxmbotgikfwzumul agrb,gvl gmvagfv ugrbgmragkql,gbvcrlx
rlabzsibrklgkpgmragwzkxzuaag.tgbmugwu vxkxrigrlabrbsbrklagkpgWovbkjgg‘Bra
vgarxlgkpgizs rbtgvl grl rxuabrklgbkg raxkzxugqmvbgquguvbgrlgbmugavfu
ikl rbrklgrbgqvagaqvookqu ;gbmugabkfvimgmvaglkbgwuzpkzfu grbagkppriu
slouaagrbgmvnugvobuzu gbmugpkzfgvl gikl rbrklgkpgqmvbgqvagikffrbbu gbkgrb
bkgiklikibjggKszgfrl agqkzcgklotgswklgbzsab,gqmulg.ksl gvl gikfwuoou gbk
pkookqgbmugvwwubrbugkpgvlkbmuz’agpvlit,gulaovnu gvl givwbrnvbu gsl uzgbmu
vsbmkzrbtgkpgvlkbmuz’agrlabzsibrkl;gqugmvnug.uulgakgas.yuibu gbkgbmu
bzvffuo,gbmvbgqugmvnuglkgpzuu,glkzglvbszvogwviugkpgkszgkql;gkszgkql
nrxkszgvl gor.uzbtgvzuguhbrlibgvl gxklu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lslesvfgbsbuovugasvugprslbj”

gggggggggg[“Bmutgvzugunuzgrlgqvz amrwj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g33j]

Rgqvagwzrnvbuotgivzzru gvbgWravgbkgauugvgnuztgmkluabgfvl,g.sbgakgxzuvbgvl
Vzrabkbuorvl,gbmvbgmragfkabgsasvogbmuaragqva:g“Bmvbgbmugbksimabklugvl 
aesvzugkpgvoogakor grfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gkpgvoogbzsbm,gqvagvlgv.akosbu
iklpkzfrbtgbkgVzrabkbou’ag kibzrlu;gvl gbmvbgvoog.uar uagqvaglkbmrlxg.sb
rlvlrbtgvl gimrfuzv;gpkzgbmvbgmugmv gauulgvoo,gvl gavr gvooj”gVgwkarbrkl,
bmvbgpkzgmvnrlxg.uulgvgorbbougbkkgrlyszrksaotgvl g.zkv otgrlbuzwzubu ,
.zksxmbgmrfgkliugvl goklxgcuwbgmrfgrlgxzuvbg vlxuzgkpgbmugRlesrarbrklgvb
Zkfuj

Oubgmrfgfvcugmrfguhvfrlugvl gbmkzksxmotgarpbgunuztbmrlxgmugzuv a,gvl 
ok xuglkbmrlxgrlgmragpvlitgswklgarfwougvsbmkzrbtgvl gswklgbzsabj
Vzrabkbou’agwzrlirwouagqroogbmulg.uglkgfkzugwzrlirwouagbkgmrf,gbmvlgbmkau
kpgUwriszsagvl gbmugAbkria:goubgbmrag rnuzarbtgkpgkwrlrklag.ugwzkwksl u 
bk,gvl govr g.upkzugmrf;gmugqroogmrfauopgimkkau,grpgmug.ugv.ou;grpglkb,
mugqroogzufvrlgrlg ks.bj

ggggggggggggggg“Imuglklgfulgbmugavnuz,g s..rvzgf’gvxxzvbvj”

ggggg[“Rgoknugbkg ks.b,gvagquoogvagbkgclkqj”-- vlbu,gRlpuzlk,ghrjg93]

pkz,grpgmuguf.zviugbmugkwrlrklagkpgHulkwmklgvl gWovbk,g.tgmragkqlgzuvakl,
bmutgqrooglkgfkzug.ugbmurza,g.sbg.uikfugmragkqljggQmkgpkookqagvlkbmuz,
pkookqaglkbmrlx,gprl aglkbmrlx,glvt,gragrlesrarbrnugvpbuzglkbmrlxj

gggggggggg“Lklgasfsagas.gzuxu;gar.rgesraesugaugnrl riubj”

gggggggggg[“Qugvzugsl uzglkgcrlx;goubguvimgnrl rivbugmrfauopj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,33]

Oubgmrf,gvbgouvab,gclkqgbmvbgmugclkqajggRbgqroog.ugluiuaavztgbmvbgmu
rf.r.ugbmurzgclkqou xu,glkbgbmvbgmug.ugikzzswbu gqrbmgbmurzgwzuiuwba;
vl glkgfvbbuzgrpgmugpkzxubgqmuzugmugmv gmragouvzlrlx,gwzknr u gmugclkq
mkqgbkgvwwotgrbgbkgmragkqlgsaujggBzsbmgvl gzuvaklgvzugikffklgbkgunuzt
klu,gvl gvzuglkgfkzugmragqmkgawvcugbmufgprzab,gbmvlgmragqmkgawuvcagbmuf
vpbuz:g‘braglkgfkzugviikz rlxgbkgWovbk,gbmvlgviikz rlxgbkgfu,garliug.kbm
mugvl gRguesvootgauugvl gsl uzabvl gbmufjgg.uuagisoogbmurzgaunuzvogaquuba
pzkfgbmragpokquzgvl gbmvbg.okaakf,gmuzugvl gbmuzugqmuzugbmutgprl gbmuf,
.sbgbmufauonuagvpbuzqvz agfvcugbmugmklut,gqmrimgragvoogvl gwszuotgbmurz
kql,gvl glkgfkzugbmtfugvl gfvzykzvf:gakgbmugaunuzvogpzvxfulbagmug.kzzkqa
pzkfgkbmuza,gmugqroogbzvlapkzfgvl gamsppougbkxubmuzgbkgikfwrougvgqkzc
bmvbgamvoog.ugv.akosbuotgmragkql;gbmvbgragbkgavt,gmragys xfulb:
mragrlabzsibrkl,gov.kszgvl gabs t,gbul gbkglkbmrlxguoaug.sbgbkgpkzfgbmvbj
Mugraglkbgk.orxu gbkg raiknuzgqmuliugmugxkbgbmugfvbuzrvoagbmvbgmvnu
vaarabu gmrf,g.sbgklotgbkgwzk siugqmvbgmugmvagmrfauopg klugqrbmgbmufj
Fulgbmvbgornugswklgwroovxugvl g.kzzkqrlx,guhwkaugbmurzgwszimvauagvl 
.sro rlxagbkgunuztgklu’agnruq:g.sbg kglkbgwzkiovrfgmkqgbmutgivfug.tgbmu
fklutjggQug kglkbgauugbmugpuuagvl gwuzesrarbuagkpgvgxulboufvlgkpgbmugoklx
zk.u;g.sbgqugauugbmugvoorvliuagqmuzuqrbmgmugpkzbrpruagmrfauopgvl gmra
pvfrot,gvl gbmugbrbouagvl gmklkszagmugmvagk.bvrlu gpkzgmrfgvl gmrajggLk
fvlg rnsoxuagmragzunulsu;gkz,gvbgouvab,gqmrimgqvtgrbgikfuagrlg.sbgunuzt
klugws.oramuagmragviesrarbrklajggBmugv nvlbvxuagkpgkszgabs tgvzugbk
.uikfug.ubbuzgvl gfkzugqraujgg‘Bra,gavtagUwrimvzfsa,gbmugsl uzabvl rlx
bmvbgauuagvl gmuvza,g‘bragbmugsl uzabvl rlxgbmvbgrfwzknuagunuztbmrlx,
bmvbgkz uzagunuztbmrlx,gvl gbmvbgviba,gzsoua,gvl gzurxla:gvoogkbmuz
pvisobruagvzug.orl ,gvl g uvp,gvl gqrbmksbgaksojggVl giuzbvrlotgqugzul uz
rbgbrfkzksagvl gauznrou,grlglkbgvookqrlxgrbgbmugor.uzbtgvl gwzrnrouxugbk
 kgvltbmrlxgkpgrbauopjggQmkunuzgvacu gmragwswrogqmvbgmugbmksxmbgkp
xzvffvzgvl gzmubkzri,gkzgkpgasimgvl gasimgvgaulbuliugkpgIriuzk?ggKsz
fvabuzagabricgbmuf,gpsoogpuvbmuzu ,grlgkszgfufkzrua,gvl gbmuzuguabv.oram
bmufgorcugkzvioua,gkpgqmrimgbmugoubbuzagvl gatoov.ouagvzugkpgbmu
as.abvliugkpgbmugbmrlxjggBkgclkqg.tgzkbu,graglkgclkqou xu,gvl garxlrprua
lkgfkzug.sbgklotgbkgzubvrlgqmvbgklugmvagrlbzsabu gbkgkszgfufkztjggBmvb
qmrimgvgfvlgzrxmbotgclkqagvl gsl uzabvl a,gmugragbmugpzuug rawkauzgkpgvb
mragkqlgpsoogor.uzbt,gqrbmksbgvltgzuxvz gbkgbmugvsbmkzgpzkfgqmuliugmugmv 
rb,gkzgpsf.orlxgknuzgbmugouvnuagkpgmrag.kkcjggVgfuzug.kkcramgouvzlrlxgra
vgwkkz,gwvobztgouvzlrlx;grbgfvtgauznugpkzgkzlvfulb,g.sbgbmuzugragtubglk
pksl vbrklgpkzgvltgaswuzabzsibszugbkg.ug.srobgswklgrb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgWovbk,gqmkgavta,gbmvbgiklabvlit,gpvrbm,gvl garliuzrbt,gvzugbmu
bzsugwmrokakwmt,gvl gbmugkbmuzgairuliua,gbmvbgvzug rzuibu gbkgkbmuzgul a;
fuzugv sobuzvbugwvrlbjggRgikso gqramgbmvbgWvosuogkzgWkfwut,gbmkaugbqk
lkbu g vliuzagkpgftgbrfu,gikso gmvnugbvsxmbgsagbkgisbgivwuza,g.tgklot
auurlxgbmufg kgrb,gqrbmksbgabrzzrlxgpzkfgkszgwoviua,gvagbmuaugfulgwzubul 
bkgrlpkzfgbmugsl uzabvl rlxgqrbmksbgunuzgaubbrlxgrbgbkgqkzc,gkzgbmvbgqu
ikso gouvzlgbkgzr u,gmvl ougvgwrcu,gbksimgvgosbu,gkzgarlxgqrbmksbgbmu
bzks.ougkpgwzvibriu,gvagbmuaugvbbufwbgbkgfvcugsagys xugvl gawuvcgquoo,
qrbmksbguhuzirarlxgsagrlgys xrlxgkzgawuvcrlxjggLkqgrlgbmragrlrbrvbrklgkp
kszgabs ruagrlgbmurzgwzkxzuaa,gqmvbakunuzgwzuaulbagrbauopg.upkzugsagra
.kkcgaspprirulb;gvgzkxsramgbzricgkpgvgwvxu,gvgakbbramgfrabvcugkpgv
auznvlb,gvgyuabgvbgbmugbv.ou,gvzugakgfvltgluqgas.yuibaj

Vl gpkzgbmragzuvakl,giklnuzavbrklgqrbmgfulgragkpgnuztgxzuvbgsaugvl 
bzvnuogrlbkgpkzurxlgikslbzrua;glkbgbkg.zrlxg.vicg(vagfkabgkpgkszgtkslx
fklaruszag k)gvlgviikslbgklotgkpgmkqgfvltgwviuagAvlbvgZkbkl v--[Bmu
WvlbmuklgkpgVxzrwwvj]--ragrlgirzisrb;gkzgkpgbmugzrimluaagkpgArxlkzv
Ornrv’agwubbrikvba;gkz,gvagakfugkbmuza,gmkqgfsimgLuzk’agpviu,grlgvgabvbsu
rlgasimgvlgko gzsrl,gragoklxuzgvl g.zkv uzgbmvlgbmvbgfv ugpkzgmrfgklgakfu
fu vo;g.sbgbkg.ugv.ougimrupotgbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgbmugmsfksza,gfvlluza,
isabkfa,gvl govqagkpgbmkauglvbrklagqmuzugmugmvag.uul,gvl gbmvbgqugfvt
qmubgvl gamvzwulgkszgqrbag.tgzs..rlxgbmufgvxvrlabgbmkaugkpgkbmuzajggR
qkso gbmvbgvg.ktgamkso g.ugaulbgv.zkv gnuztgtkslx,gvl gprzab,gakgvagbk
croogbqkg.rz agqrbmgklugabklu,grlbkgbmkauglurxm.kszrlxglvbrklagqmkau
ovlxsvxugragfkabg rppuzrlxgpzkfgkszgkql,gvl gbkgqmrim,grpgrbg.uglkb
pkzfu g.ubrfua,gbmugbklxsugqroogxzkqgbkkgabrppgbkg.ul j

Vl gvoakg‘bragbmugxuluzvogkwrlrklgkpgvoo,gbmvbgvgimro gamkso glkbg.u
.zksxmbgswgrlgmragfkbmuz’agovwjggFkbmuzagvzugbkkgbul uz,gvl gbmurz
lvbszvogvppuibrklgragvwbgbkgfvcugbmugfkabg raizuubgkpgbmufgvoogak
knuzpkl ,gbmvbgbmutgivlglurbmuzgprl grlgbmurzgmuvzbagbkgxrnugbmufg su
ikzzuibrklgpkzgbmugpvsobagbmutgfvtgikffrb,glkzgasppuzgbmufgbkg.ugrlszu 
bkgmvz amrwagvl gmvdvz a,gvagbmutgksxmbgbkg.ujggBmutgqrooglkbgul szugbk
auugbmufgzubszlgvoog sabgvl gaquvbgpzkfgbmurzguhuzirau,gbkg zrlcgiko 
 zrlcgqmulgbmutgvzugmkb,glkzgauugbmufgfkslbgvlgslzsotgmkzau,glkzgbvcugv
pkrogrlgmvl gvxvrlabgvgzs ugpuliuz,gkzgakgfsimgvagbkg raimvzxugvgivz.rluj
Vl gtubgbmuzugraglkgzufu t;gqmkunuzgqroog.zuu gvg.ktgbkg.ugxkk gpkz
vltbmrlxgqmulgmugikfuagbkg.ugvgfvl,gfsabg.tglkgfuvlagawvzugmrfgqmul
tkslx,gvl gfsabgnuztgkpbulgbzvlaxzuaagbmugzsouagkpgwmtari:

gggggggggggggg“Nrbvfesugas.g rk,gubgbzuwr ragvxvb
gggggggggggggggRlgzu.saj”

ggggg[“Oubgmrfgornugrlgkwulgvrz,gvl gunuzgrlgfknufulbgv.ksbgakfubmrlxj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK jgrrj,g3,g5j]

Rbgraglkbgulksxmgbkgpkzbrptgmragakso;gtksgvzugvoakgbkgfvcugmragarluqa
abzklx;gpkzgbmugaksogqroog.ugkwwzuaau grpglkbgvaarabu g.tgbmugfuf.uza,
vl gqkso gmvnugbkkgmvz gvgbvacgbkg raimvzxugbqkgkppriuagvoklujggRgclkq
nuztgquoogbkgftgikab,gmkqgfsimgfrlugxzkvlagsl uzgbmug.sz ul,gpzkfg.urlx
viikffk vbu gqrbmgvg.k tgakgbul uzgvl grl rawkau ,gvagubuzlvootgouvlagvl 
wzuaauagswklgmuz;gvl gkpbulgrlgftgzuv rlxgwuziurnugbmvbgkszgfvabuza,grl
bmurzgqzrbrlxa,gfvcuguhvfwouagwvaagpkzgfvxlvlrfrbtgvl gpkzbrbs ugkpgfrl ,
qmrimgzuvootgvzugzvbmuzgbksxmluaagkpgacrlgvl gmvz luaagkpg.klua;gpkzgR
mvnugauulgful,gqkful,gvl gimro zul,glvbszvootg.kzlgkpgakgmvz gvl 
rlaular.ougvgiklabrbsbrklgkpg.k t,gbmvbgvgaksl gis xuoorlxgmvag.uulgouaa
bkgbmufgbmvlgvgporzbgqrbmgvgprlxuzgqkso gmvnug.uulgbkgfu,gvl gbmvbgqkso 
lurbmuzgiztgksb,gqrliu,glkzgamzrlc,gpkzgvgxkk gaqrlxrlxg.uvbrlx;gvl gqmul
qzuabouzagikslbuzpurbgbmugwmrokakwmuzagrlgwvbruliu,g‘bragzvbmuzgabzulxbm
kpgluznuagbmvlgabksbluaagkpgmuvzbjggLkqgbkg.ugrlszu gbkgsl uzxkgov.ksz,
ragbkg.ugviisabkfu gbkgul szugwvrl:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Ov.kzgivoosfgk. sirbg kokzrj”

ggggg[“Ov.kszgmvz ulagsagvxvrlabgwvrlj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg15j]

Vg.ktgragbkg.ug.zkculgrlgbkgbmugbkrogvl gzksxmluaagkpguhuzirau,gakgvagbk
.ugbzvrlu gswgbkgbmugwvrlgvl gasppuzrlxgkpg raokivbrkla,gimkoria,
ivsbuzrua,gvl gunulgrfwzraklfulbgvl gbmugzvicgrbauop;gpkzgmugfvtgikfug.t
frapkzbslugbkg.ugzu siu gbkgbmugqkzabgkpgbmuau,gqmrimg(vagbmragqkzo 
xkua)gragakfubrfuagrlporibu gklgbmugxkk gvagquoogvagbmug.v jggVagpkz
wzkkp,grlgkszgwzuaulbgirnrogqvzgqmkunuzg zvqagmragaqkz gvxvrlabgbmugovqa,
bmzuvbulagbmugmkluabuabgfulgqrbmgbmugqmrwgvl gbmugmvobuzj

Vl ,gfkzuknuz,g.tgornrlxgvbgmkfu,gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmragxknuzlkz,gqmrim
ksxmbgbkg.ugaknuzurxlgknuzgbmug.ktgmugmvagzuiurnu grlbkgmragimvzxu,gra
kpbulgimuicu gvl gmrl uzu g.tgbmugwzuauliugkpgwvzulba;gbkgqmrimgfvtgvoak
.ugv  u ,gbmvbgbmugzuawuibgbmugqmkougpvfrotgwvtgmrf,gvagbmurzgfvabuz’a
akl,gvl gbmugclkqou xugmugmvagkpgbmuguabvbugvl gxzuvbluaagmugragmurzgbk,
vzu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,glkgafvoogrliklnulruliuagrlgbmuaugbul uzgtuvzaj

Vl gtub,gunulgrlgbmragiklnuzarlxgqrbmgfulgRgawkcugkpg.sbglkq,gRgmvnu
k.auznu gbmragnriu,gbmvbgrlabuv gkpgxvbmuzrlxgk.auznvbrklagpzkfgkbmuza,
qugfvcugrbgkszgqmkoug.sarluaagbkgovtgkszauonuagkwulgbkgbmuf,gvl gvzugfkzu
ikliuzlu gmkqgbkguhwkaugvl gaubgksbgkszgkqlgikffk rbrua,gbmvlgmkqgbk
rlizuvaugkszgabkicg.tgviesrzrlxgluqjggArouliu,gbmuzupkzu,gvl gfk uabtgvzu
nuztgv nvlbvxuksagesvorbruagrlgiklnuzavbrkljggKlugamkso ,gbmuzupkzu,
bzvrlgswgbmrag.ktgbkg.ugawvzrlxgvl gvlgmsa.vl gkpgmragclkqou xugqmulgmu
mvagviesrzu grb;gvl gbkgpkz.uvzgbvcrlxguhiuwbrklagvbgkzgzuwzknrlxgunuzt
r ougavtrlxgkzgzr risoksagabkztgbmvbgragavr gkzgbko grlgmragwzuauliu;gpkz
rbgragvgnuztgsl.uikfrlxgzs uluaagbkgivzwgvbgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgraglkb
vxzuuv.ougbkgkszgkqlgwvovbujggOubgmrfg.ugavbrapru gqrbmgikzzuibrlx
mrfauop,gvl glkbgauufgbkgikl uflgunuztbmrlxgrlgvlkbmuzgmugqkso glkbg k
mrfauop,glkzg rawsbugrbgvagvxvrlabgikffklgisabkfaj

ggggggggggggggg“Oriubgavwuzugarlugwkfwv,garlugrlnr rvj”

gggggggggg[“Oubgsag.ugqraugqrbmksbgkabulbvbrkl,gqrbmksbgulntj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g103j]

Oubgmrfgvnkr gbmuaugnvrlgvl gslirnrogrfvxuagkpgvsbmkzrbt,gbmragimro ram
vf.rbrklgkpgiknubrlxgbkgvwwuvzg.ubbuzg.zu gvl gfkzugviikfworamu ,gbmvlgmu
zuvootgqroo,g.tgasimgivzzrvxu,g raiknuzgmrfauopgbkg.ujggVl ,gvagrp
kwwkzbslrbruagkpgrlbuzzswbrlxgvl gzuwzumul rlxgquzuglkbgbkg.ugkfrbbu ,gbk
 uarzugbmuliugbkg uzrnugbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgkz rlvztj
Pkzgvagrbg.uikfuaglklug.sbgxzuvbgwkubagbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmugwkubrivo
oriuliu,gakgrbgragrlbkouzv.ougpkzgvltg.sbgfulgkpgxzuvbgvl groosabzrksa
aksoagbkgvaasfugwzrnrouxugv.knugbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgisabkf:

ggggg“Argesr gAkizvbuagvlbgVzrabrwwsagiklbzvgfkzufgubgiklasubs rluf
gggggpuiuzslb,gr ufgar.rglugvz.rbzubszgoriuzu:gfvxlragulrfgroorgub
ggggg rnrlrag.klragmvligoriulbrvfgvaauesu.vlbszj”

ggggg[“RpgAkizvbuagvl gVzrabrwwsagmvnugikffrbbu gvltgvibgvxvrlabgfvlluza
gggggvl gisabkf,goubgmrfglkbgbmrlcgbmvbgmugragvookqu gbkg kgbmugavfu;gpkz
gggggrbgqvag.tgxzuvbgvl g rnrlug.uluprbagbmvbgbmutgk.bvrlu gbmra
gggggwzrnrouxuj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg41j]

Oubgmrfg.ugrlabzsibu glkbgbkgulxvxugrlg raikszaugkzg rawsbug.sbgqrbmgv
imvfwrklgqkzbmtgkpgmrf,gvl ,gunulgbmuzu,glkbgbkgfvcugsaugkpgvoogbmu
orbbougas.boubruagbmvbgfvtgauufgwvbgpkzgmragwszwkau,g.sbgklotgasim
vzxsfulbagvagfvtg.uabgauznugmrfjggOubgmrfg.ugbvsxmbgbkg.ugiszrksagrlgbmu
uouibrklgvl gimkriugkpgmragzuvakla,gbkgv.kfrlvbugrfwuzbrluliu,gvl 
iklauesulbot,gbkgvppuibg.zunrbt;g.sb,gv.knugvoo,goubgmrfg.ugouaaklu gbk
viesruaiugvl gas.frbgbkgbzsbmgakgakklgvagunuzgmugamvoog raiknuzgrb,
qmubmuzgrlgmragkwwklulb’agvzxsfulb,gkzgswklg.ubbuzgiklar uzvbrklgkpgmra
kql;gpkzgmugamvooglunuzg.ugwzupuzzu gbkgbmugimvrzgpkzgvgfuzugiovbbuzgkp
qkz agvl gatookxrafa,gvl graglkgpszbmuzgulxvxu gbkgvltgvzxsfulbgqmvbunuz,
bmvlgvagmugamvoogrlgmragkqlgys xfulbgvwwzknugrb:glkzgtubgragvzxsrlxgv
bzv u,gqmuzugbmugor.uzbtgkpgzuivlbvbrklgvl gxubbrlxgkppgswklg.ubbuz
bmksxmba,gvzugbkg.ugako gpkzgzuv tgfklut:

gggggggggg“Luesu,gsbgkflrv,geshgwzvuaizrwbvgubgrfwuzvbvgarlb,
gggggggggg upul vb,gluiuaarbvbugsoovgikxrbszj”

ggggg[“Lurbmuzgragbmurzgvltgluiuaarbtgswklgmrf,gbmvbgmugamkso g upul 
gggggvoogbmrlxagbmvbgvzugwzuaizr.u gvl gulykrlu gmrfj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg3j]

Rpgmragxknuzlkzg.ugkpgftgmsfksz,gmugqroogpkzfgmragqroogbkg.ugvgnuztgxkk 
vl goktvogas.yuibgbkgmragwzrliu,gnuztgvppuibrklvbugbkgmragwuzakl,gvl 
nuztgabksbgrlgmragesvzzuo;g.sbgqrbmvogmugqroogikkogrlgmrfgbmug uarzugkp
mvnrlxgvltgkbmuzgbrugbkgmragauznriugbmvlgws.orig sbtjgg.uar uagaunuzvo
kbmuzgrliklnulruliuagbmvbgvzugrliklarabulbgqrbmgbmugor.uzbtgunuztgmkluab
fvlgksxmbgbkgmvnu,gvgfvl’agys xfulb,g.urlxg.zr.u gvl gwzuwkaauaau g.t
bmuaugwvzbrisovzgk.orxvbrkla,gragurbmuzg.orl u gvl gouaagpzuugbkguhuzirau
rbagpslibrkl,gkzgrag.ouframu gqrbmgrlxzvbrbs ugvl grl raizubrkljggVgfvl
bmvbgragwszuotgvgikszbruz,givlglurbmuzgmvnugwkquzglkzgqroogbkgawuvcgkz
bmrlcgkbmuzqraugbmvlgpvnkszv.otgvl gquoogkpgvgfvabuz,gqmk,gvfklxabgak
fvltgfroorklagkpgkbmuzgas.yuiba,gmvagwricu gksbgmrfgqrbmgmragkqlgmvl gbk
lkszramgvl gv nvliu;gbmragpvnksz,gvl gbmugwzkprbgpokqrlxgpzkfgrb,gfsab
luu a,gvl glkbgqrbmksbgakfugamkqgkpgzuvakl,gikzzswbgmragpzuu kfgvl 
 vddougmrf;gvl gqugikffklotgauugbmuaugwukwougawuvcgrlgvlkbmuzgcrl gkp
wmzvaugbmvlgragkz rlvzrotgawkculg.tgkbmuzagkpgbmugavfuglvbrkl,gbmksxm
qmvbgbmutgavtgrlgbmvbgikszbotgovlxsvxugraglkbgfsimgbkg.ug.uorunu j

Oubgmragiklairuliugvl gnrzbsug.ugufrlulbotgfvlrpuabgrlgmragawuvcrlx,gvl 
mvnugklotgzuvaklgpkzgbmurzgxsr ujggFvcugmrfgsl uzabvl ,gbmvbgbk
viclkqou xugbmuguzzkzgmugamvoog raiknuzgrlgmragkqlgvzxsfulb,gbmksxmgklot
pksl gksbg.tgmrfauop,gragvlguppuibgkpgys xfulbgvl garliuzrbt,gqmrimgvzu
bmugwzrlirwvogbmrlxagmugragbkgauucgvpbuz;gbmvbgk.abrlvitgvl giklbulbrkl
vzugikffklgesvorbrua,gfkabgvwwuvzrlxgrlgfuvlgaksoa;gbmvbgbkgzunraugvl 
ikzzuibgmrfauop,gbkgpkzavcugvlgslysabgvzxsfulbgrlgbmugmurxmbgvl gmuvbgkp
 rawsbu,gvzugzvzu,gxzuvb,gvl gwmrokakwmrivogesvorbruaj

Oubgmrfg.ugv nrau ,g.urlxgrlgikfwvlt,gbkgmvnugmragutugvl guvzgrlgunuzt
ikzluz;gpkzgRgprl gbmvbgbmugwoviuagkpgxzuvbuabgmklkszgvzugikffklotgaurdu 
swklg.tgfulgbmvbgmvnugouvabgrlgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgpkzbsluagvzu
auo kfgviikfwvlru gqrbmgbmugv.ouabgwvzbajggRgmvnug.uulgwzuaulbgqmul,
qmroabgbmutgvbgbmugswwuzgul gkpgbmugimvf.uzgmvnug.uulgklotgikffulbrlxgbmu
.uvsbtgkpgbmugvzzva,gkzgbmugpovnkszgkpgbmugqrlu,gfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgmvnu
.uulgnuztgprluotgavr gvbgbmugokquzgul gkpgbmugbv.ougmvnug.uulgokabgvl 
bmzkqlgvqvtjggOubgmrfguhvfrlugunuztgfvl’agbvoulb;gvgwuvavlb,gv
.zricovtuz,gvgwvaaulxuz:gklugfvtgouvzlgakfubmrlxgpzkfgunuztgklugkpgbmuau
rlgbmurzgaunuzvogivwvirbrua,gvl gakfubmrlxgqroog.ugwricu gksbgkpgbmurz
 raikszaugqmuzukpgakfugsaugfvtg.ugfv ugvbgklugbrfugkzgvlkbmuz;glvt,gunul
bmugpkootgvl grfwuzbrluliugkpgkbmuzagqroogiklbzr.sbugbkgmragrlabzsibrklj
.tgk.auznrlxgbmugxzviuagvl gfvlluzagkpgvoogmugauua,gmugqroogizuvbugbk
mrfauopgvlgufsovbrklgkpgbmugxkk ,gvl gvgiklbufwbgkpgbmug.v j

Oubgvlgmkluabgiszrkarbtg.ugasxxuabu gbkgmragpvlitgkpg.urlxgrlesrarbrnu
vpbuzgunuztbmrlx;gqmvbunuzgbmuzugragarlxsovzgvl gzvzugluvzgbmugwoviu
qmuzugmugra,goubgmrfgxkgvl gauugrb;gvgprlugmksau,gvglk.ougpkslbvrl,gvl
ufrlulbgfvl,gbmugwoviugqmuzugvg.vbbougmvag.uulgvlirulbotgpksxmb,gbmu
wvaavxuagkpgIvuavzgvl gImvzoufvxlu:

gggggggggggggg“Eshgbuoosagarbgoulbvgxuos,gesvugwsbzragv.gvuabs,
gggggggggggggggNulbsagrlgRbvorvfgesrag.ulugnuovgpuzvbj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgikslbztgrag.ksl grlgpzkab,gqmvbgovl gragpzrv.ougqrbmgmuvb,
gggggqmvbgqrl gauznuagpvrzuabgpkzgRbvotj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grnjg3,g39j]

Oubgmrfgrlesrzugrlbkgbmugfvlluza,gzunulsua,gvl gvoorvliuagkpgwzrliua,
bmrlxagrlgbmufauonuagnuztgwouvavlbgbkgouvzl,gvl gnuztgsaupsogbkgclkqj

Rlgbmragiklnuzarlxgqrbmgful,gRgfuvlgvoak,gvl gwzrlirwvoot,gbmkaugqmkgklot
ornugrlgbmugzuikz agkpgmrabkzt;gmugamvoo,g.tgzuv rlxgbmkaug.kkca,
iklnuzaugqrbmgbmugxzuvbgvl gmuzkrigaksoagkpgbmug.uabgvxuajgg‘Bragvlgr ou
vl gnvrlgabs tgbkgbmkaugqmkgfvcugrbgakg.tg krlxgrbgvpbuzgvgluxorxulb
fvlluz,g.sbgbkgbmkaugqmkg kgrbgqrbmgivzugvl gk.auznvbrkl,g‘bragvgabs tgkp
rluabrfv.ougpzsrbgvl gnvosu;gvl gbmugklotgabs t,gvagWovbkgzuwkzba,gbmvb
bmugOviu vufklrvlagzuauznu gbkgbmufauonuajggQmvbgwzkprbgamvoogmuglkbgzuvw
vagbkgbmug.sarluaagkpgful,g.tgzuv rlxgbmugOrnuagkpgWosbvzim?gg.sb,
qrbmvo,goubgftgxknuzlkzgzufuf.uzgbkgqmvbgul gmragrlabzsibrklagvzu
wzrlirwvootg rzuibu ,gvl gbmvbgmug kglkbgakgfsimgrfwzrlbgrlgmragwswro’a
fufkztgbmug vbugkpgbmugzsrlgkpgIvzbmvxu,gvagbmugfvlluzagkpgMvllr.vogvl 
Airwrk;glkzgakgfsimgqmuzugFvziuoosag ru ,gvagqmtgrbgqvagslqkzbmtgkpgmra
 sbtgbmvbgmug ru gbmuzujggOubgmrfglkbgbuvimgmrfgakgfsimgbmuglvzzvbrnu
wvzbagkpgmrabkztgvagbkgys xugbmuf;gbmugzuv rlxgkpgbmuf,grlgftgkwrlrkl,
ragvgbmrlxgbmvbgkpgvoogkbmuzagqugvwwotgkszauonuagslbkgqrbmgbmugfkab
 rppuzrlxgfuvaszujggRgmvnugzuv gvgmsl zu gbmrlxagrlgOrntgbmvbgvlkbmuzgmva
lkb,gkzglkbgbvculglkbriugkpgvbgouvab;gvl gWosbvzimgmvagzuv gvgmsl zu 
fkzugbmuzugbmvlgunuzgRgikso gprl ,gkzgbmvl,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmvbgvsbmkz
unuzgqzkbu;gbkgakfugrbgragfuzuotgvgxzvffvzgabs t,gbkgkbmuzagbmugnuzt
vlvbkftgkpgwmrokakwmt,g.tgqmrimgbmugfkabgv.abzsaugwvzbagkpgkszgmsfvl
lvbszugwulubzvbujggBmuzugvzugrlgWosbvzimgfvltgoklxg raikszauagnuztgqkzbmt
bkg.ugivzupsootgzuv gvl gk.auznu ,gpkzgmugra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gkpgvoo
kbmuzagbmugxzuvbuabgfvabuzgrlgbmvbgcrl gkpgqzrbrlx;g.sbgbmuzugvzugv
bmksavl gkbmuzagqmrimgmugmvagklotgbksimu gvl gxovliu gswkl,gqmuzugmugklot
wkrlbagqrbmgmragprlxuzgbkg rzuibgsagqmrimgqvtgqugfvtgxkgrpgqugqroo,gvl 
iklbulbagmrfauopgakfubrfuagqrbmgxrnrlxgklotgklug.zracgmrbgrlgbmuglriuab
vzbriougkpgbmugesuabrkl,gqmuliugqugvzugbkgxzkwugksbgbmugzuabjggVa,gpkz
uhvfwou,gqmuzugmugavta’--[RlgbmugUaavtgklgPvoaugAmvfuj]--bmvbgbmu
rlmv.rbvlbagkpgVarvgivfugbkg.ugnvaavoagbkgklugklot,gpkzglkbgmvnrlxg.uul
v.ougbkgwzklksliugklugatoov.ou,gqmrimgragLkjggQmrimgavtrlxgkpgmragxvnu
wuzmvwagfvbbuzgvl gkiivarklgbkgOvg.kubrugbkgqzrbugmrag“Nkoslbvzt
Auznrbs uj”ggKlotgbkgauugmrfgwricgksbgvgorxmbgvibrklgrlgvgfvl’agorpu,gkz
vgfuzugqkz gbmvbg kuaglkbgauufgbkgvfkslbgunulgbkgbmvb,gragrbauopgvgqmkou
 raikszaujgg‘Bragbkgkszgwzuys riugbmvbgfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgamkso gak
rffk uzvbuotgvppuibg.zunrbt;glkg ks.bgbmurzgzuwsbvbrklgragbmug.ubbuzg.t
rb,g.sbgrlgbmugfuvlbrfugqugvzugbmugqkzaujggWosbvzimgmv gzvbmuzgqugamkso 
vwwovs gmragys xfulbgbmvlgikfful gmragclkqou xu,gvl gmv gzvbmuzgouvnugsa
qrbmgvlgvwwubrbugbkgzuv gfkzu,gbmvlgxosbbu gqrbmgbmvbgqugmvnugvozuv t
zuv jggMugcluqgnuztgquoo,gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgavtgbkkgfsimgunulgswklgbmug.uab
as.yuiba,gvl gbmvbgVouhvl zr vagysabotgzuwzkvimu gmrfgqmkgfv ugnuztgxkk j
.sbgbkkgoklxgawuuimuagbkgbmugUwmkzr,gqmulgmugavr :g“Kgabzvlxuz!ggbmks
awuvcuabgbmugbmrlxagbmksgamkso abgawuvc,g.sbglkbgvagbmksgamkso abgawuvc
bmufj”--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfagkpgbmugOviu vfklrvlaj]--Asimgvagmvnugouvl
vl gawvzug.k ruagabsppgbmufauonuagksbgqrbmgiokbmua;gakgbmutgqmkgvzu
 upuibrnugrlgfvbbuzgul uvnkszgbkgfvcugvful agqrbmgqkz aj

Msfvlgsl uzabvl rlxgragfvznuooksaotgulorxmbulu g.tg vrotgiklnuzavbrkl
qrbmgful,gpkzgqugvzu,gkbmuzqrau,gikfwzuaau gvl gmuvwu gswgrlgkszauonua,
vl gmvnugkszgarxmbgorfrbu gbkgbmugoulxbmgkpgkszgkqlglkauajggKlugvacrlx
Akizvbuagkpgqmvbgikslbztgmugqva,gmug r glkbgfvcugvlaquz,gkpgVbmula,g.sb
kpgbmugqkzo ;--[Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg37;gWosbvzim,gKlgUhrou,gijg4j]--
mugqmkaugrfvxrlvbrklgqvagpsoouzgvl gqr uz,guf.zviu gbmugqmkougqkzo gpkz
mragikslbzt,gvl guhbul u gmragakirubtgvl gpzrul amrwgbkgvoogfvlcrl ;
lkbgvagqug k,gqmkgokkcglkgpszbmuzgbmvlgkszgpuubjggQmulgbmugnrluagkpgft
nroovxugvzuglrwwu gqrbmgbmugpzkab,gftgwvzramgwzruabgwzuaulbotgiklios ua,
bmvbgbmugrl rxlvbrklgkpgXk gmvagxklugksbgvxvrlabgvoogbmugmsfvlgzviu,gvl 
bmvbgbmugivllr.voagmvnugvozuv tgxkbgbmugwrwjggQmkgragrbgbmvb,gauurlxgbmu
mvnkigkpgbmuaugirnrogqvzagkpgksza,g kuaglkbgiztgksb,gbmvbgbmugfvimrlugkp
bmugqkzo gragluvzg raakosbrkl,gvl gbmvbgbmug vtgkpgys xfulbgragvbgmvl ;
qrbmksbgiklar uzrlx,gbmvbgfvltgqkzaugbmrlxagmvnug.uulgauul,gvl gbmvbgrl
bmugfuvlbrfu,gwukwougvzugnuztgfuzztgrlgvgbmksavl gkbmuzgwvzbagkpgbmu
uvzbmgpkzgvoogbmra?ggPkzgftgwvzb,giklar uzrlxgbmugoriuliugvl grfwslrbt
bmvbgvoqvtagvbbul gasimgikffkbrkla,gRgqkl uzgbmutgvzugakgfk uzvbu,gvl 
bmvbgbmuzugraglkgfkzugfraimrupg klujggBkgmrfgqmkgpuuoagbmugmvroabklua
wvbbuzgv.ksbgmraguvza,gbmugqmkougmufrawmuzugvwwuvzagbkg.ugrlgabkzfgvl 
bufwuab;gorcugbmugzr risoksagAvnktvz ,gqmkgavr gnuztgxzvnuot,gbmvbgrp
bmvbgarfwougcrlxgkpgPzvliugikso gmvnugfvlvxu gmragpkzbslugvagmugamkso 
mvnug klu,gmugfrxmbgrlgbrfugmvnugikfugbkgmvnug.uulgabuqvz gkpgbmu
mksaumko gbkgbmug scugmragfvabuz:gbmugpuookqgikso glkb,grlgmragamvookq
rfvxrlvbrkl,gikliurnugbmvbgbmuzugikso g.ugvltbmrlxgxzuvbuzgbmvlgvg scugkp
AvnktjggVl ,grlgbzsbm,gqugvzugvoogkpgsa,grlaular.ot,grlgbmraguzzkz,gvl
uzzkzgkpgvgnuztgxzuvbgqurxmbgvl gnuztgwuzlrirksagiklauesuliujgg.sb
qmkunuzgamvoogzuwzuaulbgbkgmragpvlit,gvagrlgvgwribszu,gbmvbgxzuvbgrfvxu
kpgkszgfkbmuzglvbszu,grlgmuzgpsoogfvyuabtgvl gosabzu,gqmkunuzgrlgmuzgpviu
amvoogzuv gakgxuluzvogvl gakgiklabvlbgvgnvzrubt,gqmkunuzgamvoogk.auznu
mrfauopgrlgbmvbgprxszu,gvl glkbgmrfauopg.sbgvgqmkougcrlx kf,glkg.rxxuz
bmvlgbmugouvabgbksimgkzgwzricgkpgvgwulirogrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugqmkou,
bmvbgfvlgvoklugragv.ougbkgnvosugbmrlxagviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgbzsuguabrfvbu
vl gxzvl uszj

Bmragxzuvbgqkzo gqmrimgakfug kgtubgfsobrwotgvagaunuzvogawuiruagsl uzgklu
xulsa,gragbmugfrzzkzgqmuzurlgqugvzugbkg.umko gkszauonua,gbkg.ugv.ougbk
clkqgkszauonuagvagqugksxmbgbkg kgrlgbmugbzsug.rvajggRlgamkzb,gRgqkso 
mvnugbmragbkg.ugbmug.kkcgftgtkslxgxulboufvlgamkso gabs tgqrbmgbmugfkab
vbbulbrkljggAkgfvltgmsfksza,gakgfvltgauiba,gakgfvltgys xfulba,gkwrlrkla,
ovqa,gvl gisabkfa,gbuvimgsagbkgys xugvzrxmbgkpgkszgkql,gvl grlpkzfgksz
sl uzabvl rlxgbkg raiknuzgrbagrfwuzpuibrklgvl glvbszvogrlprzfrbt,gqmrim
raglkgbzrnrvogawuisovbrkljggAkgfvltgfsbvbrklagkpgabvbuagvl gcrlx kfa,gvl 
akgfvltgbszlagvl gzunkosbrklagkpgws.origpkzbslu,gqroogfvcugsagqraugulksxm
bkgfvcuglkgxzuvbgqkl uzgkpgkszgkqljggAkgfvltgxzuvbglvfua,gakgfvltgpvfksa
nribkzruagvl giklesuabag zkqlu gvl gaqvookqu grlgk.ornrkl,gzul uzgksz
mkwuagzr risoksagkpgubuzlrarlxgkszglvfuag.tgbmugbvcrlxgkpgmvop-v-aikzugkp
orxmbgmkzau,gkzgvgmulzkkab,gqmrimgklotg uzrnuagrbagfufkztgpzkfgrbagzsrlj
Bmugwzr ugvl gvzzkxvliugkpgakgfvltgpkzurxlgwkfwa,gbmugrlpovbu gfvyuabtgkp
akgfvltgikszbagvl gxzvl usza,gviisabkfgvl gpkzbrptgkszgarxmbgqrbmksb
iokarlxgkszgutuagbkg.umko gbmugosabzugkpgkszgkql;gakgfvltgbzroorklagkp
ful,g.szru g.upkzugsa,gulikszvxugsaglkbgbkgpuvzgbkgxkgauucgasimgxkk 
ikfwvltgrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo :gvl gakgkpgbmugzuabgWtbmvxkzvagqvagqvlbgbk
avt,--[Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjgg3j]--bmvbgkszgorpugzuauf.ouagbmugxzuvb
vl gwkwsoksagvaauf.otgkpgbmugKotfwrigxvfua,gqmuzurlgakfuguhuziraugbmu
.k t,gbmvbgbmutgfvtgivzztgvqvtgbmugxokztgkpgbmugwzrdu:gkbmuzag.zrlx
fuzimvl raugbkgauoogpkzgwzkprb:gbmuzugvzugvoakgakfug(vl gbmkauglklugkp
bmugqkzabgakzb)gqmkgwszasuglkgkbmuzgv nvlbvxugbmvlgklotgbkgokkcgkl,gvl 
iklar uzgmkqgvl gqmtgunuztbmrlxgrag klu,gvl gbkg.ugawuibvbkzagkpgbmu
ornuagkpgkbmuzgful,gbmuzu.tgbmug.ubbuzgbkgys xugkpgvl gzuxsovbugbmurz
kqlj

Bkguhvfwouagfvtgprbotg.ugvwworu gvoogbmugwzkprbv.oug raikszauagkp
wmrokakwmt,gbkgqmrimgvoogmsfvlgvibrkla,gvagbkgbmurzg.uabgzsou,gksxmbgbk
.uguawuirvootg rzuibu :gvgaimkovzgamvoog.ugbvsxmbgbkgclkq--

gggggggggggggggggggg“Esr gpvagkwbvzu:gesr gvawuz
ggggggggggSbrouglsffsagmv.ub:gwvbzrhgivzraesugwzkwrlesra
ggggggggggEsvlbsfguovzxrzrg uiuvb:gesuzlgbug usaguaau
ggggggggggYsaarb,gubgmsfvlvgesvgwvzbugokivbsaguagrlgzu;
ggggggggggEsr gasfsa,gubgesr lvfgnribszrgxrxlrfszj”

ggggg[“Ouvzlgqmvbgrbgragzrxmbgbkgqram;gqmvbgragbmugbzsugsaugkpgikrlu 
gggggfklut;gmkqgfsimgrbg.uikfuagsagbkgxrnugrlgor.uzvorbtgbkgkszgikslbzt
gggggvl gkszg uvzgzuovbrkla;gqmkfgvl gqmvbgbmug urbtgikffvl u gbmuugbk
ggggg.u;gvl grlgqmvbgwvzbgkpgbmugmsfvlgatabufgbmksgvzbgwoviu ;gqmvbgqu
gggggvzugvlbgbkgqmvbgwszwkaugulxul uzu j”--Wuzarsa,grrrjg69]

qmvbgrbgragbkgclkq,gvl gqmvbgbkg.ugrxlkzvlb;gqmvbgksxmbgbkg.ugbmugul gvl 
 uarxlgkpgabs t;gqmvbgnvoksz,gbufwuzvliu,gvl gysabriugvzu;gbmug rppuzuliu
.ubqrhbgvf.rbrklgvl gvnvzriu,gauznrbs ugvl gas.yuibrkl,goriuliugvl 
or.uzbt;g.tgqmvbgbkculgvgfvlgfvtgclkqgbzsugvl gakor giklbulbfulb;gmkqgpvz
 uvbm,gvpporibrkl,gvl g raxzviugvzugbkg.ugvwwzumul u ;

gggggggggg“Ubgeskgesufesugfk kgpsxrvbesugpuzvbesugov.kzufj”

gggggggggg[“Vl gmkqgtksgfvtgamslgkzgasabvrlgunuztgmvz amrwj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,grrrjg459j]

.tgqmvbgauizubgawzrlxagqugfknu,gvl gbmugzuvaklgkpgkszgnvzrksagvxrbvbrkla
vl grzzuakosbrkla:gpkz,gfubmrlcagbmugprzabg kibzrlugqrbmgqmrimgklugamkso 
auvaklgmragsl uzabvl rlx,gksxmbgbkg.ugbmvbgqmrimgzuxsovbuagmragfvlluza
vl gmragaulau;gbmvbgbuvimuagmrfgbkgclkqgmrfauop,gvl gmkqg.kbmgquoogbkg rx
vl gquoogbkgornujggVfklxabgbmugor.uzvogairuliua,goubgsag.uxrlgqrbmgbmvb
qmrimgfvcuagsagpzuu;glkbgbmvbgbmutg kglkbgvoogauznugrlgakfugfuvaszugbk
bmugrlabzsibrklgvl gsaugkpgorpu,gvagvoogkbmuzgbmrlxagrlgakfugakzbgvoak
 k;g.sbgoubgsagfvcugimkriugkpgbmvbgqmrimg rzuibotgvl gwzkpuaau otgauznua
bkgbmvbgul jggRpgqugvzugkliugv.ougbkgzuabzvrlgbmugkppriuagkpgmsfvlgorpu
qrbmrlgbmurzgysabgvl glvbszvogorfrba,gqugamvoogprl gbmvbgfkabgkpgbmu
airuliuagrlgsaugvzugkpglkgxzuvbgsaugbkgsa,gvl gunulgrlgbmkaugbmvbgvzu,
bmvbgbmuzugvzugfvltgnuztgslluiuaavztgivnrbruagvl g rovbvbrklagqmrimgqu
mv g.ubbuzgoubgvoklu,gvl ,gpkookqrlxgAkizvbua’g rzuibrkl,gorfrbgbmu
ikszaugkpgkszgabs ruagbkgbmkaugbmrlxagklotgqmuzugragvgbzsugvl gzuvo
sbrorbt:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Avwuzugvs u;
gggggggggggggggRlirwu;ggEsrgzuibugnrnul rgwzkzkxvbgmkzvf,
gggggggggggggggZsabrisaguhawuibvb,g sfg uposvbgvflra;gvbgroou
gggggggggggggggOv.rbsz,gubgov.ubszgrlgkflugnkos.roragkunsfj”

ggggg[“ vzugbkg.ugqrau;g.uxrl!gmugqmkg upuzagbmugmkszgkpgornrlxgquoogra
gggggorcugbmugiokql,gqvrbrlxgbroogbmugzrnuzgamvoogmvnugpokqu gksb:g.sb
gggggbmugzrnuzgabroogpokqa,gvl gqroogzslgkl,gqrbmgiklabvlbgikszau,gbk
gggggvxuagqrbmksbgul j”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg2j]

‘Bragvgxzuvbgpkkouztgbkgbuvimgkszgimro zul:

gggggggggggggg“Esr gfknuvlbgWraiua,gvlrfkavesugarxlvgOuklra,
gggggggggggggggOkbsagubgMuawuzrvgesr gIvwzrikzlsagvesv,”

ggggg[“QmvbgrlposuliugWraiuagmvnu,gkzgbmugarxlgkpgvlxztgOuk,gkz
gggggIvwzrikzl,gqvamu g.tgbmugMuawuzrvlgqvnuj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grnjgR,g89j]

bmugclkqou xugkpgbmugabvzagvl gbmugfkbrklgkpgbmugurxmbmgawmuzug.upkzu
bmurzgkql:

ggggg[“QmvbgivzugRgv.ksbgbmugWourv uagkzgbmugabvzagkpgBvszsa?”
gggggg--Vlvizukl,gK u,ghnrrjg10j]

VlvhrfuluagqzrbrlxgbkgWtbmvxkzva,g“Bkgqmvbgwszwkau,”gavr gmu,g“amkso gR
bzks.ougftauopgrlgauvzimrlxgksbgbmugauizubagkpgbmugabvza,gmvnrlxg uvbmgkz
aovnuztgiklbrlsvootg.upkzugftgutua?”gpkzgbmugcrlxagkpgWuzarvgquzugvbgbmvb
brfugwzuwvzrlxgbkgrlnv ugmragikslbztjggUnuztgklugksxmbgbkgavtgbmsa,
“.urlxgvaavsobu ,gvagRgvfg.tgvf.rbrkl,gvnvzriu,gbufuzrbt,gaswuzabrbrkl,
vl gmvnrlxgqrbmrlgakgfvltgkbmuzgulufruagkpgorpu,gamvoogRgxkgwkl uzgknuz
bmugqkzo ’agimvlxua?”

Vpbuzgmvnrlxgbvsxmbgmrfgqmvbgqroogfvcugmrfgfkzugqraugvl gxkk ,gtksgfvt
bmulgulbuzbvrlgmrfgqrbmgbmuguoufulbagkpgokxri,gwmtaria,gxukfubzt,
zmubkzri,gvl gbmugairuliugqmrimgmugamvoogbmulgmrfauopgfkabgrliorlugbk,
mragys xfulbg.urlxg.upkzumvl gpkzfu gvl gprbgbkgimkkau,gmugqroogesricot
fvcugmragkqljggBmugqvtgkpgrlabzsibrlxgmrfgksxmbgbkg.ugakfubrfuag.t
 raikszau,gvl gakfubrfuag.tgzuv rlx;gakfubrfuagmragxknuzlkzgamvoogwsbgbmu
vsbmkzgmrfauop,gqmrimgmugamvoogbmrlcgfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgmrf,grlbkgmragmvl a,
vl gakfubrfuagklotgbmugfvzzkqgvl gas.abvliugkpgrb;gvl grpgmrfauopg.uglkb
iklnuzavlbgulksxmgrlg.kkcagbkgbszlgbkgvoogbmugprlug raikszauagbmug.kkca
iklbvrlgpkzgmragwszwkau,gbmuzugfvtgakfugfvlgkpgouvzlrlxg.ugykrlu gbkgmrf,
bmvbgswklgunuztgkiivarklgamvoogaswwotgmrfgqrbmgqmvbgmugabvl agrlgluu gkp,
bkgpszlramgrbgbkgmragwswrojggVl gqmkgivlg ks.bg.sbgbmvbgbmragqvtgkp
buvimrlxgragfsimgfkzuguvatgvl glvbszvogbmvlgbmvbgkpgXvdv,--[Bmuk kzu
Xvdv,gzuibkzgkpgbmugViv uftgkpgPuzzvzvj]--rlgqmrimgbmugwzuiuwbagvzugak
rlbzrivbu,gvl gakgmvzam,gvl gbmugqkz agakgnvrl,gouvl;gvl grlarxlrprivlb,
bmvbgbmuzugraglkgmko gbkg.ugbvculgkpgbmuf,glkbmrlxgbmvbgesriculagvl 
uounvbuagbmugqrbgvl gpvlit,gqmuzuvagmuzugbmugfrl gmvagqmvbgbkgpuu gswkl
vl gbkg rxuabjggBmragpzsrb,gbmuzupkzu,graglkbgklotgqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,
fsimgfkzugpvrzgvl g.uvsbrpso;g.sbgqroogvoakg.ugfsimgfkzuguvzotgzrwuj

‘Bragvgbmksavl gwrbruagbmvbgfvbbuzagamkso g.ugvbgasimgvgwvaagrlgbmragvxu
kpgksza,gbmvbgwmrokakwmt,gunulgqrbmgfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlx,gamkso g.u,
okkcu gswklgvagvgnvrlgvl gpvlbvabriglvfu,gvgbmrlxgkpglkgsau,glkgnvosu,
urbmuzgrlgkwrlrklgkzguppuib,gkpgqmrimgRgbmrlcgbmkauguzxkbrafagvl gwubbt
akwmrabzrua,g.tgwzuwkaauaarlxgbmugvnulsuagbkgrb,gvzugbmugivsaujggVl 
wukwougvzugfsimgbkg.ovfugbkgzuwzuaulbgrbgbkgimro zulgpkzgvgbmrlxgkpgak
 rpprisobgviiuaa,gvl gqrbmgasimgvgpzkqlrlx,gxzrf,gvl gpkzfr v.ougvawuibj
Qmkgragrbgbmvbgmvag raxsrau grbgbmsa,gqrbmgbmragpvoau,gwvou,gvl gxmkabot
ikslbulvliu?ggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgfkzugvrzt,gfkzugxvt,gfkzugpzkori,gvl gR
mv gorcugbkgmvnugavr ,gfkzugqvlbkljggAmugwzuvimuaglkbmrlxg.sbgpuvabrlx
vl gykoorbt;gvgfuovlimkorigvlhrksagokkcgamkqagbmvbgamug kuaglkbgrlmv.rb
bmuzujgg ufubzrsagbmugxzvffvzrvlgprl rlxgrlgbmugbufwougkpg uowmkagvgclkb
kpgwmrokakwmuzagaubgimvbbrlxgbkxubmuz,gavr gbkgbmuf,--[Wosbvzim,gBzuvbrau
klgKzviouagqmrimgmvnugiuvau ]--“UrbmuzgRgvfgfsimg uiurnu ,gkzg.tgtksz
imuuzpsogvl gwouvavlbgikslbulvliua,gtksgvzugulxvxu grlglk,gnuztg uuw
 raikszauj”ggBkgqmrimgklugkpgbmuf,gMuzviouklgbmugFuxvzuvl,gzuworu :
“Bragpkzgasimgvagvzugwsddou gv.ksbgrlesrzrlxgqmubmuzgbmugpsbszugbulaugkp
bmugnuz.g------gragawuobgqrbmgvg ks.ougV,gkzgbmvbgmslbgvpbuzgbmu
 uzrnvbrklgkpgbmugikfwvzvbrnuag-----gvl g-----,gvl gbmugaswuzovbrnuag----
vl g------,gbkgclrbgbmurzg.zkqagqmroabg raikszarlxgkpgbmurzgairuliu:g.sb
vagbkgwmrokakwmrivog raikszaua,gbmutgvoqvtag rnuzbgvl gimuuzgswgbmkau
bmvbgulbuzbvrlgbmuf,gvl glunuzg uyuibgbmufgkzgfvcugbmufgav j”

gggggggggggggg“ uwzul vagvlrfrgbkzfulbvgovbulbragrlgvuxzk
gggggggggggggggIkzwkzu;g uwzul vagubgxvs rv;gasfrbgsbzsfesu
gggggggggggggggRl ugmv.rbsfgpviruaj”

ggggg[“Tksgfvtg raiuzlgbmugbkzfulbagkpgfrl goszcrlxgrlgvgaricg.k t;gtks
gggggfvtg raiuzlgrbagykta:gurbmuzguhwzuaarklgbmugpviugvaasfuagpzkfgbmu
gggggfrl j”--Ysnulvo,grhjg18]

Bmugaksogbmvbgok xuagwmrokakwmt,gksxmbgbkg.ugkpgasimgvgiklabrbsbrklgkp
muvobm,gvagbkgzul uzgbmug.k tgrlgorcugfvlluzgmuvobmpsogbkk;gamugksxmbgbk
fvcugmuzgbzvlesroorbtgvl gavbrapvibrklgamrlugakgvagbkgvwwuvzgqrbmksb,gvl 
muzgiklbulbfulbgksxmbgbkgpvamrklgbmugksbqvz g.umvnrkszgbkgmuzgkqlgfkso ,
vl giklauesulbotgbkgpkzbrptgrbgqrbmgvgxzviupsogiklpr uliu,gvlgvibrnugvl 
yktksagivzzrvxu,gvl gvgauzulugvl giklbulbu gikslbulvliujggBmugfkab
fvlrpuabgarxlgkpgqra kfgragvgiklbrlsvogimuuzpsoluaa;gmuzgabvbugragorcu
bmvbgkpgbmrlxagrlgbmugzuxrklagv.knugbmugfkkl,gvoqvtagiouvzgvl gauzuluj
‘Brag.vzkikgvl g.vzvorwbkl--[Bqkgbuzfagkpgbmugvlirulbgaimkovabri
okxrij]--bmvbgzul uzgbmurzg rairwouagakg rzbtgvl groo-pvnkszu ,gvl glkb
amu;gbmutg kglkbgakgfsimgvagclkqgmuzg.sbg.tgmuvzavtjggQmvb!ggRbgragamu
bmvbgivofagvl gvwwuvauagbmugabkzfagvl gbufwuabagkpgbmugakso,gvl gqmk
buvimuagpvfrlugvl gpunuzagbkgovsxmgvl garlx;gvl gbmvb,glkbg.tgiuzbvrl
rfvxrlvztguwritioua,g.sbg.tglvbszvogvl gfvlrpuabgzuvaklajggAmugmvagnrzbsu
pkzgmuzgul ,gqmrimgraglkb,gvagbmugaimkkofulgavt,garbsvbugswklgbmugasffrb
kpgvgwuzwul risovz,gzsxxu ,grlviiuaar.ougwzuirwriu:gasimgvagmvnu
vwwzkvimu gmuzgprl gmuz,gesrbugklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbkg.ugauvbu grlgvgpvrz,
pzsrbpso,gvl gpokszramrlxgwovrl,gqmuliugamuguvarotg raiknuzagvoogbmrlxa
.uokq;gbkgqmrimgwoviugvltgklugfvt,gmkqunuz,gvzzrnu,grpgmugclkqg.sbgbmu
qvt,gbmzksxmgamv t,gxzuul,gvl gaquubot-pokszramrlxgvnulsua,g.tgv
wouvavlb,guvat,gvl gafkkbmg uaiulb,gorcugbmvbgkpgbmugiuouabrvognvsobj
‘Bragpkzglkbgmvnrlxgpzuesulbu gbmragaswzufu,gbmrag.uvsbrpso,gbzrsfwmvlb,
vl gvfrv.ou,gbmraguesvootg uorirksagvl gikszvxuksagnrzbsu,gbmragak
wzkpuaau gvl grfwoviv.ouguluftgbkgvlhrubt,gakzzkq,gpuvz,gvl giklabzvrlb,
qmk,gmvnrlxglvbszugpkzgmuzgxsr u,gmvagpkzbslugvl gwouvaszugpkzgmuz
ikfwvlrkla,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugxklu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkqlgquvcgrfvxrlvbrkl,
vl gizuvbu gbmragzr risoksa,gbmragakzzkqpso,gesuzsoksa,g uawrbupso,
bmzuvbulrlx,gbuzzr.ougrfvxugkpgrbgbkgbmufauonuagvl gkbmuza,gvl gwoviu grb
swklgvgzkicgvwvzb,gvfklxabgbmkzlagvl g.zvf.oua,gvl gfv ugkpgrbgv
mk.xk.orlgbkgvppzrxmbgwukwouj

.sbgbmugxknuzlkzgbmvbgRgqkso gmvnu,gbmvbgragasimgvgklugvagclkqagrbgbkg.u
mrag sbtgbkgwkaauaagmragwswrogqrbmgvagfsimgkzgfkzugvppuibrklgbmvl
zunuzuliugbkgnrzbsu,gqroog.ugv.ougbkgrlpkzfgmrf,gbmvbgbmugwkubagmvnu
unuzfkzugviikffk vbu gbmufauonuagbkgbmugws.origmsfksz,gvl gfvcugmrf
aular.ou,gbmvbgbmugxk agmvnugwovlbu gfkzugbkrogvl gaquvbgrlgbmugvnulsua
kpgbmugiv.rlubagkpgNulsagbmvlgrlgbmkaugkpgFrluznvjggVl gqmulgmugamvoo
kliugprl gmrfg.uxrlgbkgvwwzumul ,gvl gamvoogzuwzuaulbgbkgmrfgvg.zv vfvlbu
kzgvlgVlxuoriv--[MuzkrluagkpgVzrkabkj]--pkzgvgfrabzuaa,gvglvbszvo,
vibrnu,gxuluzksa,gvl glkbgvgnrzvxkram,g.sbgvgfvlotg.uvsbt,grlgikfwvzrakl
kpgvgakpb,g uorivbu,gvzbrprirvogarfwuzrlx,gvl gvppuibu gpkzf;gbmugklugrl
bmugmv.rbgkpgvgmuzkrigtksbm,gquvzrlxgvgxorbbuzrlxgmuofub,gbmugkbmuz
bzricu gswgrlgiszoagvl gzr..klagorcugvgqvlbklgfrlh;gmugqroogbmulgokkc
swklgmragkqlgvppuibrklgvag.zvnugvl gfvaisorlu,gqmulgmugamvoogimkkaugesrbu
iklbzvztgbkgbmvbguppufrlvbugamuwmuz gkpgWmztxrvj

Asimgvgbsbkzgqroogfvcugvgwswrog rxuabgbmragluqgouaakl,gbmvbgbmugmurxmb
vl gnvosugkpgbzsugnrzbsugiklarabagrlgbmugpvirorbt,gsbrorbt,gvl gwouvaszu
kpgrbaguhuzirau;gakgpvzgpzkfg rpprisobt,gbmvbg.kta,gvagquoogvagful,gvl 
bmugrllkiulbgvagquoogvagbmugas.bou,gfvtgfvcugrbgbmurzgkql;grbgrag.t
kz uz,gvl glkbg.tgpkziu,gbmvbgrbgragbkg.ugviesrzu jggAkizvbua,gmuzgprzab
frlrkl,gragakgvnuzaugbkgvoogfvlluzgkpgnrkouliu,gvagbkbvootgbkgbmzkqgrb
var u,gbkgaorwgrlbkgbmugfkzuglvbszvogpvirorbtgkpgmuzgkqlgwzkxzuaa;g‘bra
bmuglszarlxgfkbmuzgkpgvoogmsfvlgwouvaszua,gqmkgrlgzul uzrlxgbmufgysab,
zul uzagbmufgvoakgwszugvl gwuzfvlulb;grlgfk uzvbrlxgbmuf,gcuuwagbmufgrl
.zuvbmgvl gvwwubrbu;grlgrlbuz ribrlxgbmkaugqmrimgamugmuzauopgzupsaua,
qmubagkszg uarzugbkgbmkaugbmvbgamugvookqa;gvl ,gorcugvgcrl gvl gor.uzvo
fkbmuz,gv.sl vlbotgvookqagvoogbmvbglvbszugzuesrzua,gunulgbkgavbrubt,grp
lkbgbkgovaarbs u:gslouaagqugfuvlgbkgavtgbmvbgbmugzuxrfulgqmrimgabkwagbmu
bkwuzg.upkzugmugmvag zslcgmrfauopg zslc,gbmugxosbbklg.upkzugmugmvaguvbul
bkgvgaszpurb,gvl gbmugouimuzg.upkzugmugmvagxkbgbmugwkh,gragvlguluftgbk
wouvaszujggRpgbmugkz rlvztgpkzbslugpvro,gamug kuagqrbmksbgrb,gvl gpkzfa
vlkbmuz,gqmkootgmuzgkql,glkbgakgpricougvl gslabuv tgvagbmugkbmuzjggAmu
ivlg.ugzrim,g.ugwkbulbgvl gqrau,gvl gclkqagmkqgbkgorugswklgakpbgwuzpsfu 
.u a:gamugoknuagorpu,g.uvsbt,gxokzt,gvl gmuvobm;g.sbgmuzgwzkwuzgvl 
wuisorvzgkppriugragbkgclkqgmkqgbkgzuxsovbugbmugsaugkpgvoogbmuaugxkk 
bmrlxa,gvl gmkqgbkgokaugbmufgqrbmksbgikliuzl:gvlgkppriugfsimgfkzuglk.ou
bmvlgbzks.ouakfu,gvl gqrbmksbgqmrimgbmugqmkougikszaugkpgorpugra
sllvbszvo,gbsz.soulb,gvl g upkzfu ,gvl gbmuzugrbgragrl uu ,gbmvbgfulgfvt
ysabotgzuwzuaulbgbmkaugfklabuzagswklgzkicagvl gwzuirwriuaj

Rpgbmragwswrogamvoogmvwwulgbkg.ugkpgakgiklbzvztgvg rawkarbrkl,gbmvbgmu
mv gzvbmuzgmuvzgvgbvougkpgvgbs.gbmvlgbmugbzsuglvzzvbrnugkpgakfuglk.ou
uhwu rbrklgkzgakfugqraugvl gouvzlu g raikszau;gqmkgvbgbmug.uvbgkpg zsf,
bmvbguhirbuagbmugtksbmpsogvz kszgkpgmragikfwvlrkla,gouvnuagbmvbgbkgpkookq
vlkbmuzgbmvbgivooagbkgvgfkzzragkzgbmug.uvza;gqmkgqkso glkbgqram,gvl gprl 
rbgfkzug uorxmbpsogvl gfkzuguhiuooulb,gbkgzubszlgvoog sabgvl gaquvb
nribkzrksagpzkfgvg.vbbou,gbmvlgpzkfgbullragkzgpzkfgvg.voo,gqrbmgbmugwzrdu
kpgbmkauguhuziraua;gRgauuglkgkbmuzgzufu t,g.sbgbmvbgmug.ug.ksl gwzulbriu
rlgakfugxkk gbkqlgbkgouvzlgbkgfvcugfrliu gwrua,gbmksxmgmugquzugbmugaklgkp
vg scu;gviikz rlxgbkgWovbk’agwzuiuwb,gbmvbgimro zulgvzugbkg.ugwoviu gksb
vl g rawkau gkp,glkbgviikz rlxgbkgbmugquvobm,gesvorbrua,gkzgikl rbrklgkp
bmugpvbmuz,g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgbmugpvisobruagvl gbmugivwvirbtgkpgbmurzgkql
aksoaj

Arliugwmrokakwmtgragbmvbgqmrimgrlabzsibagsagbkgornu,gvl gbmvbgrlpvlitgmva
bmuzugrbagouaaklagvagquoogvagkbmuzgvxua,gqmtgragrbglkbgikffslrivbu gbk
imro zulg.ubrfua?

ggggggggg“S sfgubgfkoougosbsfguab;glsli,glsligwzkwuzvl sa,gubgvizr
ggggggggggPrlxul sagarlugprlugzkbvj”

ggggg[“Bmugiovtgragfkrabgvl gakpb:glkq,glkqgfvcugmvabu,gvl gpkzfgbmu
gggggwrbimuzgklgbmugzvwr gqmuuoj”--Wuzarsa,grrrjg23j]

Bmutg.uxrlgbkgbuvimgsagbkgornugqmulgqugmvnugvofkabg klugornrlxj
Vgmsl zu gabs ulbagmvnugxkbgbmugwkhg.upkzugbmutgmvnugikfugbkgzuv 
Vzrabkbou’agouibszugklgbufwuzvliujggIriuzkgavr ,gbmvbgbmksxmgmugamkso 
ornugbqkgful’agvxua,gmugamkso glunuzgprl gouraszugbkgabs tgbmugotzri
wkuba;gvl gRgprl gbmuaugakwmrabuzagtubgfkzug uwokzv.otgslwzkprbv.ouj
Bmug.ktgqugqkso g.zuu gmvagvgxzuvbg uvogouaagbrfugbkgawvzu;gmugkquag.sb
bmugprzabgprpbuulgkzgarhbuulgtuvzagkpgmragorpugbkgu sivbrkl;gbmu
zufvrl uzgrag sugbkgvibrkljggOubgsa,gbmuzupkzu,gufwoktgbmvbgamkzbgbrfugrl
luiuaavztgrlabzsibrkljggVqvtgqrbmgbmugbmkzltgas.boubruagkpg rvouibria;
bmutgvzugv.saua,gbmrlxag.tgqmrimgkszgornuagivlglunuzg.ugvful u :gbvcugbmu
wovrlgwmrokakwmrivog raikszaua,gouvzlgmkqgzrxmbotgbkgimkkau,gvl gbmul
zrxmbotgbkgvwwotgbmuf;gbmutgvzugfkzuguvatgbkg.ugsl uzabkk gbmvlgklugkp
.kiiviirk’aglknuoa;gvgimro gpzkfglszaugragfsimgfkzugivwv.ougkpgbmuf,gbmvl
kpgouvzlrlxgbkgzuv gkzgbkgqzrbujggWmrokakwmtgmvag raikszauagwzkwuzgpkz
imro mkk ,gvagquoogvagpkzgbmug uizuwrbgvxugkpgfulj

RgvfgkpgWosbvzim’agfrl ,gbmvbgVzrabkboug r glkbgakgfsimgbzks.ougmragxzuvb
 rairwougqrbmgbmugclvicgkpgpkzfrlxgatookxrafa,gkzgqrbmgbmuguoufulbagkp
xukfubzt;gvagqrbmgrlpsarlxgrlbkgmrfgxkk gwzuiuwbagikliuzlrlxgnvoksz,
wzkquaa,gfvxlvlrfrbt,gbufwuzvliu,gvl gbmugiklbufwbgkpgpuvz;gvl gqrbmgbmra
vffslrbrkl,gaulbgmrf,gqmroabgtubgvg.kt,gqrbmglkgfkzugbmvlgbmrzbtgbmksavl 
pkkb,gpkszgbmksavl gmkzau,gvl g.sbgpkzbt-bqkgbmksavl gizkqla,gbk
as.ysxvbugbmugufwrzugkpgbmugqmkouguvzbmjggPkzgbmugkbmuzgvibagvl 
airuliua,gmugavta,gVouhvl uzgmrxmotgrl uu gikfful u gbmurzguhiuoouliugvl 
imvzf,gvl gmv gbmufgrlgnuztgxzuvbgmklkszgvl guabuuf,g.sbglkbgzvnramu 
qrbmgbmufgbkgbmvbg uxzuugvagbkg.ugbufwbu gbkgvppuibgbmugwzvibriugkpgbmuf
Rlgmragkqlgwuzakl:

gggggggggggggg“Wubrbugmrli,gysnuluaesugauluaesu,
ggggggggggggggPrlufgvffkgiuzbsf,gfrauzraesugnrvbrivgivlraj”

ggggg[“Tkslxgfulgvl gko gful,g uzrnugmuliugvgiuzbvrlgul gbkgbmugfrl ,
gggggvl gabkzuagpkzgfrauzv.ougxzutgmvrzaj”--Wuzarsa,gnjg64j]

Uwriszsa,grlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgmragoubbuzgbkgFulriusa,--[ rkxulua
Ovuzbrsa,ghjg122j]--avta,g“Bmvbglurbmuzgbmugtkslxuabgamkso gzupsaugbk
wmrokakwmrau,glkzgbmugko uabgxzkqgquvztgkpgrbj”ggQmkg kuagkbmuzqrau,
auufagbvirbotgbkgrfwot,gbmvbgurbmuzgbmugbrfugkpgornrlxgmvwwrotgra
lkbgtubgikfu,gkzgbmvbgrbgragvozuv tgwvabjggVl gtub,gvgpkzgvoogbmvb,gR
qkso glkbgmvnugbmragwswrogkpgkszagrfwzraklu gvl gfv ugvgaovnugbkgmra
.kkc;glkzgqkso gRgmvnugmrfgxrnulgswgbkgbmugfkzkarbtgvl gfuovlimkori
msfkszgkpgvgakszgroo-lvbszu gwu vlbj

Rgqkso glkbgmvnugmragawrzrbgikqu gvl gas. su ,g.tgvwwotrlxgmrfgbkgbmu
zvic,gvl gbkzfulbrlxgmrf,gvagakfug k,gpkszbuulgkzgprpbuulgmkszagvg vt,
vl gakgfvcugvgwvic-mkzaugkpgmrfjggLurbmuzgamkso gRgbmrlcgrbgxkk ,gqmul,
.tgzuvaklgkpgvgakorbvztgvl gfuovlimkorigikfwouhrkl,gmugrag raiknuzu gbk
.ugknuzfsimgv  ribu gbkgmrag.kkc,gbkglkszramgbmvbgmsfkszgrlgmrf;gpkzgbmvb
zul uzagmrfgslprbgpkzgirnrogiklnuzavbrkl,gvl g rnuzbagmrfgpzkfg.ubbuz
ufwoktfulbajggVl gmkqgfvltgmvnugRgauulgrlgftgbrfugbkbvootg.zsbrpru g.tgvl
rffk uzvbugbmrzabgvpbuzgclkqou xu?ggIvzluv uagqvagakg.uakbbu gqrbmgrb,
bmvbgmugqkso glkbgprl gbrfugakgfsimgvagbkgikf.gmragmuv gkzgbkgwvzugmra
lvroajggLurbmuzgqkso gRgmvnugmragxuluzksagfvlluzagawkrou gvl gikzzswbu 
.tgbmugrlirnrorbtgvl g.vz.vzrafgkpgbmkaugkpgvlkbmuzjggBmugPzulimgqra kf
qvagvlirulbotgbszlu grlbkgwzknuz.:g“Uvzot,g.sbgkpglkgiklbrlsvliuj”ggVl ,
rlgbzsbm,gqugtubgauu,gbmvbglkbmrlxgivlg.ugfkzugrlxulrksagvl gwouvarlx
bmvlgbmugimro zulgkpgPzvliu;g.sbgbmutgkz rlvzrotg uiurnugbmugmkwugvl 
uhwuibvbrklgbmvbgmvnug.uulgikliurnu gkpgbmuf;gvl gxzkqlgswgbkg.ugful,
mvnuglkbmrlxguhbzvkz rlvztgkzgqkzbmgbvcrlxglkbriugkp:gRgmvnugmuvz gfulgkp
xkk gsl uzabvl rlxgavt,gbmuaugikoouxuagkpgkszagbkgqmrimgqugaul gkszgtkslx
wukwoug(vl gkpgqmrimgqugmvnug.sbgbkkgfvlt)gfvcugbmufgasimgvlrfvoagvagbmut
vzuj--[Mk..uagavr gbmvbgrpgmugMv g.uulgvbgikoouxugvagoklxgvagkbmuzgwukwou
mugamkso gmvnug.uulgvagxzuvbgvg.okicmuv gvagbmutjgQjIjMj]g[Vl g.vikl
.upkzugMk..u’agbrfugmv g raisaau gbmug“psbrorbt”gkpgslrnuzarbtgbuvimrlxj
 jQj]

.sbgbkgkszgorbbougfklarusz,gvgiokaub,gvgxvz ul,gbmugbv.ou,gmrag.u ,
akorbs u,gvl gikfwvlt,gfkzlrlxgvl gunulrlx,gvoogmkszagamvoog.ugbmugavfu,
vl gvoogwoviuagbkgmrfgvgabs t;gpkzgwmrokakwmt,gqmk,gvagbmugpkzfvbzrhgkp
ys xfulbgvl gfvlluza,gamvoog.ugmragwzrlirwvogouaakl,gmvagbmvbgwzrnrouxu
bkgmvnugvgmvl grlgunuztbmrlxjggBmugkzvbkzgRakizvbua,g.urlxgvbgvgpuvab
ulbzuvbu gbkgawuvcgkpgmragvzb,gvoogbmugikfwvltgquzugavbrapru gqrbmgvl 
ikfful u gmragvlaquz:gg“Rbgraglkbglkqgvgbrfu,”gavr gmu,g“bkg kgqmvbgRgivl
 k;gvl gbmvbgqmrimgrbgraglkqgbrfugbkg k,gRgivllkbg kj”--[Wosbvzim,
Atfwj,grjgRj]--Pkzgbkgfvcugkzvbrklagvl gzmubkzrivog rawsbuagrlgvgikfwvlt
fubgbkxubmuzgbkgovsxmgvl gfvcugxkk gimuuz,gmv g.uulgnuztgslzuvaklv.ougvl 
rfwzkwuz,gvl gvagfsimgfrxmbgmvnug.uulgavr gkpgvoogbmugkbmuzgairuliuaj
.sbgvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagwmrokakwmt,gbmvbgwvzbgkpgrbgvbgouvabgbmvbgbzuvba
kpgfvl,gvl gkpgmragkppriuagvl g sbrua,grbgmvag.uulgbmugikffklgkwrlrklgkp
voogqraugful,gbmvb,gksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgbmugaquubluaagkpgmuzgiklnuzavbrkl,
amugragunuzgbkg.ugv frbbu grlgvoogawkzbagvl gulbuzbvrlfulbajggVl gWovbk,
mvnrlxgrlnrbu gmuzgbkgmragpuvab,gqugauugvpbuzgmkqgxulbougvl gk.orxrlxgv
fvlluz,gviikffk vbu g.kbmgbkgbrfugvl gwoviu,gamugulbuzbvrlu gbmugikfwvlt,
bmksxmgrlgvg raikszaugkpgbmugmrxmuabgvl gfkabgrfwkzbvlbglvbszu:

gggggggggggggg“Vuesugwvswuzr.sagwzk uab,gokiswoubr.sagvuesu;
gggggggggggggggUb,gluxouibv,gvuesugwsuzragaulr.saesuglkiu.rbj”

ggggg[“Rbgwzkprbagwkkzgvl gzrimgvorcu,g.sb,gluxouibu ,guesvootgmszbagko 
gggggvl gtkslxj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg25j]

.tgbmragfubmk gkpgrlabzsibrkl,gftgtkslxgwswrogqroog.ugfsimgfkzugvl 
.ubbuzgufwoktu gbmvlgmragpuookqagkpgbmugikoouxugvzujgg.sbgvagbmugabuwagqu
bvcugrlgqvocrlxgbkgvl gpzkgrlgvgxvoouzt,gbmksxmgbmzuugbrfuagvagfvlt,g k
lkbgbrzugvgfvlgakgfsimgvagbmkaugqugufwoktgrlgvgpkzfvogykszlut,gakgksz
ouaakl,gvagrbgquzugviir ulbvootgkiiszzrlx,gqrbmksbgvltgaubgk.orxvbrklgkp
brfugkzgwoviu,gvl gpvoorlxglvbszvootgrlbkgunuztgvibrkl,gqroogrlaular.ot
rlarlsvbugrbauopjgg.tgqmrimgfuvlagkszgnuztguhuzirauagvl gzuizuvbrkla,
zsllrlx,gqzuaborlx,gfsari,g vlirlx,gmslbrlx,gzr rlx,gvl gpulirlx,gqroo
wzknugbkg.ugvgxkk gwvzbgkpgkszgabs tjggRgqkso gmvnugmragksbqvz gpvamrkl
vl gfrul,gvl gbmug rawkarbrklgkpgmragorf.a,gpkzfu gvbgbmugavfugbrfugqrbm
mragfrl jgg‘Braglkbgvgakso,g‘braglkbgvg.k tgbmvbgqugvzugbzvrlrlxgsw,g.sb
vgfvl,gvl gqugksxmbglkbgbkg rnr ugmrfjggVl ,gvagWovbkgavta,gqugvzuglkbgbk
pvamrklgklugqrbmksbgbmugkbmuz,g.sbgfvcugbmufg zvqgbkxubmuzgorcugbqk
mkzauagmvzluaau gbkgvgikvimjgg.tgqmrimgavtrlxgkpgmra,g kuagmuglkbgauufgbk
vookqgfkzugbrfugpkz,gvl gbkgbvcugfkzugivzugkpguhuzirauagpkzgbmug.k t,gvl 
bkgmko gbmvbgbmugfrl ,grlgvgxkk gwzkwkzbrkl,g kuagmuzg.sarluaagvbgbmu
avfugbrfugbkk?

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gbmragfubmk gkpgu sivbrklgksxmbgbkg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmgv
aunuzugaquubluaa,gesrbugiklbzvztgbkgbmugwzvibriugkpgkszgwu vlba,gqmk,
rlabuv gkpgbufwbrlxgvl gvooszrlxgimro zulgbkgoubbuzag.tgvwbgvl gxulbou
qvta,g kgrlgbzsbmgwzuaulbglkbmrlxg.upkzugbmufg.sbgzk agvl gpuzsoua,
mkzzkzgvl gizsuobtjggVqvtgqrbmgbmragnrkouliu!ggvqvtgqrbmgbmragikfwsoarkl!
bmvlgqmrim,gRgiuzbvrlotg.uorunuglkbmrlxgfkzug sooagvl g uxuluzvbuagv
quoo- uaiul u glvbszujggRpgtksgqkso gmvnugmrfgvwwzumul gamvfugvl 
imvabraufulb,g kglkbgmvz ulgmrfgbkgbmuf:grlszugmrfgbkgmuvbgvl giko ,gbk
qrl gvl gasl,gvl gbkg vlxuzagbmvbgmugksxmbgbkg uawrau;gquvlgmrfgpzkfgvoo
uppufrlvitgvl g uorivitgrlgiokbmuagvl gok xrlx,guvbrlxgvl g zrlcrlx;
viisabkfgmrfgbkgunuztbmrlx,gbmvbgmugfvtglkbg.ugvgArzgWvzra,
vgivzwub-clrxmb,g.sbgvgarluqt,gmvz t,gvl gnrxkzksagtkslxgfvljggRgmvnu
unuzgpzkfgvgimro gbkgbmugvxugqmuzurlgRglkqgvf,g.uulgkpgbmragkwrlrkl,gvl 
vfgabroogiklabvlbgbkgrbjgg.sbgvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbmugabzrib
xknuzlfulbgkpgfkabgkpgkszgikoouxuagmvagunuzfkzug rawouvau gfu;
wuzv nulbszu,gbmutgfrxmbgmvnuguzzu gouaagwuzlrirksaotgklgbmugrl soxulb
ar ujgg‘Bragvgzuvogmksaugkpgikzzuibrklgkpgrfwzraklu gtksbmjggBmutgvzu
fv ug u.vsimu g.tg.urlxgwslramu g.upkzugbmutgvzugakjgg kg.sbgikfugrl
qmulgbmutgvzugv.ksbgbmurzgouaakl,gvl gtksgamvoogmuvzglkbmrlxg.sbgbmu
ksbizruagkpg.ktagsl uzguhuisbrkl,gqrbmgbmugbmsl uzrlxglkraugkpgbmurz
wu vxkxsuag zslcgqrbmgpsztjgVgnuztgwzubbtgqvtgbmra,gbkgbufwbgbmuau
bul uzgvl gbrfkzksagaksoagbkgoknugbmurzg.kkc,gqrbmgvgpszrksa
ikslbulvliu,gvl gvgzk grlgmvl !ggVgiszau gvl gwuzlrirksagqvtgkp
wzkiuu rlx!gg.uar uagqmvbgEsrlbrorvlgmvagnuztgquoogk.auznu ,gbmvbgbmra
rfwuzrksagvsbmkzrbtgragkpbulgvbbul u g.tgnuztg vlxuzksagiklauesuliua,
vl gwvzbrisovzotgkszgqvtgkpgimvabrarlxjggMkqgfsimgfkzug uiulbgqkso grb
.ugbkgauugbmurzgiovaauagabzuqu gqrbmgxzuulgouvnuagvl gprlugpokquza,gbmvl
qrbmgbmug.okk tgabsfwagkpg.rzimgvl gqrookqa?ggQuzugrbgoupbgbkgft
kz uzrlxjggRgamkso gwvrlbgbmugaimkkogqrbmgbmugwribszuagkpgyktgvl 
xov luaa;gPokzvgvl gbmugXzviua,gvagbmugwmrokakwmuzgAwusarwwsag r gmraj
Qmuzugbmurzgwzkprbgra,goubgbmufgbmuzugmvnugbmurzgwouvaszugbkkjgAsim
nrvl agvagvzugwzkwuzgvl gqmkouakfugpkzgimro zul,gamkso g.ugaquubulu 
qrbmgasxvz,gvl gasimgvagvzug vlxuzksagbkgbmuf,guf.rbbuzu gqrbmgxvooj
‘BragfvznuooksagbkgauugmkqgakorirbksagWovbkgragrlgmragOvqagikliuzlrlx
bmugxvrubtgvl g rnuzarklgkpgbmugtksbmgkpgmragirbt,gvl gmkqgfsimgvl 
kpbulgmugulovzxuagswklgbmugzviua,gawkzba,gaklxa,gouvwa,gvl g vliua:gkp
qmrim,gmugavta,gbmvbgvlbresrbtgmvagxrnulgbmugkz uzrlxgvl gwvbzklvxu
wvzbrisovzotgbkgbmugxk agbmufauonua,gbkgVwkook,gFrluznv,gvl gbmugFsauaj
Mugrlarabagoklxgswkl,gvl gragnuztgwvzbrisovzgrl,gxrnrlxgrllsfuzv.ou
wzuiuwbagpkzguhuziraua;g.sbgvagbkgbmugoubbuzu gairuliua,gavtagnuzt
orbbou,gvl gklotgauufagwvzbrisovzotgbkgzuikfful gwkubztgswklgbmugviikslb
kpgfsarij

Voogarlxsovzrbtgrlgkszgfvlluzagvl gikl rbrklagragbkg.ugvnkr u ,gva
rliklarabulbgqrbmgirnrogakirubtjggQmkgqkso glkbg.ugvabklramu gvbgak
abzvlxugvgiklabrbsbrklgvagbmvbgkpg ufkwmkkl,gabuqvz gbkgVouhvl uzgbmu
Xzuvb,gqmkgaquvbu grlgbmugamv ugvl gamrnuzu grlgbmugasl?ggRgmvnugauul
bmkaugqmkgmvnugzslgpzkfgbmugafuoogkpgvgfuookqgvwwougqrbmgxzuvbuz
wzuirwrbvbrklgbmvlgpzkfgvgmvzesu.saa-amkb;gkbmuzagvpzvr gkpgvgfksau;
kbmuzagnkfrbgvbgbmugarxmbgkpgizuvf;gkbmuzagzuv tgbkgaqkklgvbgbmugfvcrlx
kpgvgpuvbmuzg.u ;gXuzfvlrisagikso glurbmuzgul szugbmugarxmbglkzgbmu
izkqrlxgkpgvgikicjggRgqrooglkbg ult,g.sbgbmvbgbmuzugfvt,gwuzv nulbszu,
.ugakfugkiisobgivsaugvl glvbszvogvnuzarklgrlgbmuaugivaua;g.sb,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gvgfvlgfrxmbgiklesuzgrb,grpgmugbkkcgrbgrlgbrfujggWzuiuwbgmvagrl
bmragqzksxmbgakguppuibsvootgswklgfu,gbmksxmglkbgqrbmksbgakfugwvrlagklgft
wvzb,gRgiklpuaa,gbmvbg.uuzguhiuwbu ,gftgvwwubrbugviikffk vbuagrbauop
rl rppuzulbotgbkgvoogakzbagkpg rubjggTkslxg.k ruagvzugaswwou;gklugamkso ,
bmuzupkzu,grlgbmvbgvxug.ul gvl gwotgbmufgbkgvoogpvamrklagvl gisabkfa:gvl 
wzknr u gvgfvlgivlgiklbvrlgbmugvwwubrbugvl gbmugqroogqrbmrlgbmurzg su
orfrba,goubgvgtkslxgfvl,grlgXk ’aglvfu,g.ugzul uzu gprbgpkzgvooglvbrkla
vl gvoogikfwvlrua,gunulgbkg u.vsimuztgvl guhiuaa,grpgluu g.u;gbmvbgra,
qmuzugmugamvoog kgrbgksbgkpgikfwoviulitgbkgbmugisabkfagkpgbmugwoviuj
Oubgmrfg.ugv.ougbkg kgunuztbmrlx,g.sbgoknugbkg kglkbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgra
xkk jggBmugwmrokakwmuzagbmufauonuag kglkbgysabrptgIvoorabmuluagpkz
pkzpurbrlxgbmugpvnkszgkpgmragfvabuzgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,g.tgzupsarlxgbk
wou xugmrfgvgiswgkpgqrlujggOubgmrfgovsxm,gwovt,gqulimgqrbmgmragwzrliu:
lvt,gRgqkso gmvnugmrf,gunulgrlgmrag u.vsimua,gbkkgmvz gpkzgbmugzuabgkp
bmugikfwvlt,gvl gbkguhiuogmragikfwvlrklagrlgv.rorbtgvl gnrxksz,gvl gbmvb
mugfvtglkbgxrnugknuzg krlxgrb,gurbmuzgbmzksxmg upuibgkpgwkquzgkz
clkqou xugmkqgbkg kgrb,g.sbgpkzgqvlbgkpgqrooj

ggggg“Fsobsfgrlbuzuab,gsbzsfgwuiivzugvorgesraglkorb,gvlgluairvbj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugragvgnvabg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgpkz.uvzrlxgbkgarl,gvl glkb
gggggclkqrlxgmkqgbkgarlj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g90]

RgbmksxmbgRgwvaau gvgikfworfulbgswklgvgokz ,gvagpzuugpzkfgbmkauguhiuaaua
vagvltgfvlgrlgPzvliu,g.tgvacrlxgmrfg.upkzugvgxzuvbg uvogkpgnuztgxkk 
ikfwvlt,gmkqgfvltgbrfuagrlgmragorpugmugmv g.uulg zslcgrlgXuzfvlt,grlgbmu
brfugkpgmrag.urlxgbmuzugv.ksbgmragFvyuabt’agvppvrza;gqmrimgmugvoakgbkkc
vagrbgqvagrlbul u ,gvl gfv ugvlaquz,g“Bmzuugbrfua”;gvl gqrbmvogbko gsa
bmugqmkougabkztgkpgmrag u.vsimuajggRgclkqgakfugqmk,gpkzgqvlbgkpgbmra
pvisobt,gmvnugpksl gvgxzuvbgrliklnulruliugrlgluxkbrvbrlxgqrbmgbmvb
lvbrkljggRgmvnugkpbulgqrbmgxzuvbgv frzvbrklgzupouibu gswklgbmugqkl uzpso
iklabrbsbrklgkpgVoir.rv ua,gqmkgakguvarotgikso gbzvlapkzfgmrfauopgbkgak
nvzrksagpvamrklagqrbmksbgvltgwzuys riugbkgmragmuvobm;gklugqmrougksb krlx
bmugWuzarvlgwkfwgvl goshszt,gvl gvlkbmuz,gbmugOviu vufklrvlgvsabuzrbtgvl 
pzsxvorbt;gvagzupkzfu grlgAwvzbv,gvagnkoswbsksagrlgRklrv:

gggggggggg“KflragVzrabrwwsfg uisrbgikokz,gubgabvbsa,gubgzuaj”

ggggg[“Unuztgikfwouhrklgkpgorpu,gvl gabvbrkl,gvl girzisfabvliug.uivfu
gggggVzrabrwwsaj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,ghnrrjg23j]

Rgqkso gmvnugftgwswrogbkg.ugasimgvlgklu,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Esufg sworirgwvllkgwvbulbrvgnuovb,
gggggggggggggggFrzv.kz,gnrbvugnrvgargiklnuzavg uiu.rb,
gggggggggggggggWuzaklvfesugpuzubglklgrliklirllsagsbzvfesuj”

ggggg[“Rgamkso gv frzugmrfgqmkgqrbmgwvbruliug.uvzrlxgvgwvbimu gxvzfulb,
ggggg.uvzagquoogvgimvlxu gpkzbslu,gvibrlxg.kbmgwvzbaguesvootgquooj”
gggggg--MkzviugUwj,ghnrrjg25j]

Bmuaugvzugftgouaakla,gvl gmugqmkgwsbagbmufgrlgwzvibriugamvoogzuvwgfkzu
v nvlbvxugbmvlgmugqmkgmvagmv gbmufgzuv gbkgmrfgklot,gvl gakgklotgclkqa
bmufjggRpgtksgauugmrf,gtksgmuvzgmrf;grpgtksgmuvzgmrf,gtksgauugmrfjggXk 
pkz.r ,gavtagklugrlgWovbk,gbmvbgbkgwmrokakwmraugquzugklotgbkgzuv gvgxzuvb
fvltg.kkca,gvl gbkgouvzlgbmugvzbaj

gggggggggg“Mvligvfworaarfvfgkflrsfgvzbrsfg.ulugnrnul rg rairworlvf,
ggggggggggnrbvgfvxragesvfgorbuzra,gwuzauessbrgaslbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgmvnugwzkiuu u gbkgbmrag rairworlugkpgornrlxgquoo,gqmrimgkp
gggggvoogvzbagragbmugxzuvbuab,g.tgbmurzgornua,gzvbmuzgbmvlg.tgbmurz
gggggzuv rlxj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grnjg3j]

Ouk,gwzrliugkpgbmugWmorvarvla,gvacrlxgMuzvior uagWklbrisa--[Rbgqvaglkb
Muzvior uagkpgWklbsagqmkgfv ugbmragvlaquz,g.sbgWtbmvxkzvaj]--kpgqmvbgvzb
kzgairuliugmugfv ugwzkpuaarkl:g“Rgclkq,”gavr gmu,g“lurbmuzgvzbglkz
airuliu,g.sbgRgvfgvgwmrokakwmuzj”ggKlugzuwzkvimrlxg rkxuluagbmvb,g.urlx
rxlkzvlb,gmugamkso gwzubul gbkgwmrokakwmt;g“Rgbmuzupkzu,”gvlaquzu gmu,
“wzubul gbkgrbgqrbmgakgfsimgbmugfkzugzuvaklj”ggMuxuarvagulbzuvbu gbmvbgmu
qkso gzuv gvgiuzbvrlg.kkcgbkgmrf:g“Tksgvzugwouvavlb,”gavr gmu;g“tks
imkkaugbmkaugprxagbmvbgvzugbzsugvl glvbszvo,gvl glkbgbmkaugbmvbgvzu
wvrlbu ;gqmtg kgtksglkbgvoakgimkkauguhuzirauagqmrimgvzuglvbszvootgbzsu,
zvbmuzgbmvlgbmkaugqzrbbul?”

Bmugov gqrooglkbgakgfsimgxubgmragouaaklg.tgmuvzbgvagmugqroogwzvibraugrb:
mugqroogzuwuvbgrbgrlgmragvibrklajggQugamvoog raiknuzgrpgbmuzug.ugwzs uliu
rlgmraguhuziraua,grpgbmuzug.ugarliuzrbtgvl gysabriugrlgmrag uwkzbfulb,grp
bmuzug.ugxzviugvl gys xfulbgrlgmragawuvcrlx;grpgbmuzug.ugiklabvlitgrlgmra
aricluaa;grpgbmuzug.ugfk uabtgrlgmragfrzbm,gbufwuzvliugrlgmragwouvaszua,
kz uzgrlgmrag kfuabriguiklkft,grl rppuzuliugrlgwvovbu,gqmubmuzgqmvbgmu
uvbagkzg zrlcag.ugpouamgkzgpram,gqrlugkzgqvbuz:

ggggg“Esrg rairworlvfgasvfglklgkabulbvbrklufgairulbrvu,gau gouxufgnrbvu
gggggwsbub:gesresugk.bufwuzubgrwaugar.r,gubg uizubragwvzuvbj”

ggggg[“Qmkgiklar uzagmragkqlg rairworlu,glkbgvagvgnvrlgkabulbvbrklgkp
gggggairuliu,g.sbgvagvgovqgvl gzsougkpgorpu;gvl gqmkgk.utagmragkql
ggggg uizuua,gvl gbmugovqagmugmvagwzuaizr.u gpkzgmrfauopj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grrjg4j]

Bmugikl sibgkpgkszgornuagragbmugbzsugfrzzkzgkpgkszg kibzrlujggDushr vfsa,
bkgklugqmkgvacu gmrf,gqmtgbmugOviu vufklrvlag r glkbgikffrbgbmurz
iklabrbsbrklagkpgimrnvoztgbkgqzrbrlx,gvl g uornuzgbmufgbkgbmurzgtkslxgful
bkgzuv ,gfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgrbgqvag.uivsaugbmutgqkso grlszugbmufgbk
vibrkl,gvl glkbgvfsaugbmufgqrbmgqkz ajggQrbmgasimgvgklu,gvpbuzgprpbuulgkz
arhbuulgtuvza’gabs t,gikfwvzugklugkpgkszgikoouxugOvbrlraba,gqmkgmva
bmzkqlgvqvtgakgfsimgbrfugrlglkbmrlxg.sbgouvzlrlxgbkgawuvcjggBmugqkzo gra
lkbmrlxg.sbg.v..ou;gvl gRgmvz otgunuzgtubgavqgbmvbgfvlgqmkg r glkbgzvbmuz
wzvbugbkkgfsim,gbmvlgawuvcgbkkgorbboujggVl gtubgmvopgkpgkszgvxugra
uf.uddou gbmragqvt:gqugvzugcuwbgpkszgkzgprnugtuvzagbkgouvzlgqkz agklot,
vl gbkgbvicgbmufgbkxubmuzgrlbkgiovsaua;gvagfvltgfkzugbkgpkzfgbmufgrlbkgv
oklxg raikszau,g rnr u grlbkgpkszgkzgprnugwvzba;gvl gkbmuzgprnugtuvza,gvb
ouvab,gbkgouvzlgasiirlibotgbkgfrhgvl grlbuzquvnugbmufgvpbuzgvgas.bougvl 
rlbzrivbugfvlluzgoubgsagouvnugvoogbmragbkgbmkaugqmkgfvcugvgwzkpuaarklgkp
rbj

Xkrlxgklug vtgbkgKzouvla,gRgfubgrlgbmvbgwovrlgklgbmragar ugIouzt,gbqk
wu vlbagqmkgquzugbzvnuoorlxgbkqvz ag.kz uvsh,gv.ksbgprpbtgwviuag rabvlb
pzkfgklugvlkbmuz;gvl ,gvgxkk gqvtgpszbmuzg.umrl gbmuf,gRg raiknuzu gv
bzkkwgkpgmkzau,gqrbmgvgxulboufvlgvbgbmugmuv gkpgbmuf,gqmkgqvagbmugovbu
FklaruszgougIkfbug ugovgZkimupksivso jggKlugkpgftgwukwougrlesrzu gkpgbmu
pkzufkabgkpgbmuaugfvabuzagkpgvzba,gqmkgbmvbgxulboufvlgqvagbmvbgivfugvpbuz
mrf;gmu,gmvnrlxglkbgauulgbmugbzvrlgbmvbgpkookqu gvpbuz,gvl gbmrlcrlxgmra
ikfwvlrklgqvagfuvlb,gwouvavlbotgvlaquzu ,g“Mugraglkbgvgxulboufvl;gmugragv
xzvffvzrvl;gvl gRgvfgvgokxrirvlj”ggLkqgqugqmk,gesrbugiklbzvzt,g kglkb
muzugwzubul gbkg.zuu gvgxzvffvzrvlgkzgvgokxrirvl,g.sbgvgxulboufvl,goubgsa
ouvnugbmufgbkgv.saugbmurzgouraszu;gkszg.sarluaagoruaguoauqmuzujggOubg.sb
kszgwswrog.ugquoogpszlramu gqrbmgbmrlxa,gqkz agqroogpkookqg.sbgbkkgpvab;
mugqroogwsoogbmufgvpbuzgmrfgrpgbmutg kglkbgnkoslbvzrotgpkookqjggRgmvnu
k.auznu gakfugbkgfvcuguhisaua,gbmvbgbmutgivllkbguhwzuaagbmufauonua,gvl 
wzubul gbkgmvnugbmurzgpvliruagpsoogkpgvgxzuvbgfvltgnuztgprlugbmrlxa,
qmrimgtub,gpkzgqvlbgkpguokesuliu,gbmutgivllkbgsbbuz;g‘bragvgfuzugamrpb,
vl glkbmrlxguoaujggQroogtksgclkqgqmvbgRgbmrlcgkpgrb?ggRgbmrlcgbmutgvzu
lkbmrlxg.sbgamv kqagkpgakfugrfwuzpuibgrfvxuagvl gikliuwbrklagbmvbgbmut
clkqglkbgqmvbgbkgfvcugkpgqrbmrl,glkzgiklauesulbotg.zrlxgksb;gbmutg kglkb
tubgbmufauonuagsl uzabvl gqmvbgbmutgqkso g.ugvb,gvl grpgtksg.sbgk.auznu
mkqgbmutgmvxxougvl gabvffuzgswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgwvzbszrbrkl,gtksgqroogakkl
iklios u,gbmvbgbmurzgov.kszgraglkbgbkg uornuzt,g.sbgv.ksbgikliuwbrkl,gvl 
bmvbgbmutgvzug.sbgoricrlxgbmurzgpkzfouaaguf.ztkjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgmko ,
vl gAkizvbuagikffvl agrb,gbmvbgqmkunuzgmvagrlgmragfrl gvgawzrxmbotgvl 
iouvzgrfvxrlvbrkl,gmugqrooguhwzuaagrbgquoogulksxmgrlgklugcrl gkpgbklxsu
kzgvlkbmuz,gvl ,grpgmug.ug sf.,g.tgarxla--

ggggggggggggggg“Nuz.vesugwzvunravfgzufglklgrlnrbvgauesulbsz;”

ggggg[“Kliugvgbmrlxgragikliurnu grlgbmugfrl ,gbmugqkz agbkguhwzuaagrb
gggggakklgwzuaulbgbmufauonuaj”g(“Bmugqkz agqrooglkbgzuosibvlbotgpkookqgbmu
gggggbmrlxgwzuikliurnu j”)--Mkzviu,g ugVzbugWkubrivjgnjg311]

Vl gvagvlkbmuzgvagwkubrivootgavtagrlgmragwzkau:

gggggggggg“Essfgzuagvlrfsfgkiiswvnuzu,gnuz.agvf.rslb,”

ggggg[“Qmulgbmrlxagvzugkliugrlgbmugfrl ,gbmugqkz agkppuzgbmufauonua
gggggzuv rotj”gg(“Qmulgbmrlxagmvnugbvculgwkaauaarklgkpgbmugfrl ,gbmu
gggggqkz agbzrwj”)--Auluiv,gIklbzknuzaj,grrrjggwzkufj]

vl gbmragkbmuzj

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rwavugzuagnuz.agzvwrslbj”

ggggg[“Bmugbmrlxagbmufauonuagpkziugbmugqkz agbkguhwzuaagbmufj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grrrjgg5j]

Mugclkqaglkbmrlxgkpgv.ovbrnu,giklyslibrnu,gas.abvlbrnu,gkzgxzvffvz,glk
fkzugbmvlgmragovicut,gkzgvgpramqrpugkpgbmugWubrbgWklb;gvl gtubgbmuaugqroo
xrnugtksgvg.uootpsogkpgbvoc,grpgtksgqroogmuvzgbmuf,gvl gwuzv nulbszu
amvoogbzrwgvagorbbougrlgbmurzgovlxsvxugvagbmug.uabgfvabuzagkpgvzbgrl
PzvliujggMugclkqaglkgzmubkzri,glkzgmkqgrlgvgwzupviugbkg.zr.ugbmu
.ulunkouliugkpgbmugikszbuksagzuv uz;glurbmuzg kuagmugivzugbkgclkqgrbj
Rl uu gvoogbmragprlug uikzvbrklgkpgwvrlbrlxgraguvarotguppviu g.tgbmu
osabzugkpgvgarfwougvl g.oslbgbzsbm;gbmuaugprlugpokszramuagauznugklotgbk
vfsaugbmugnsoxvz,gkpgbmufauonuagrlivwv.ougkpgfkzugakor gvl glsbzrbrnu
 rub,gvagVwuzgnuztgunr ulbotg ufklabzvbuagrlgBvirbsajggBmugvf.vaav kza
kpgAvfka,gwzuwvzu gqrbmgvgoklxgvl guouxvlbgkzvbrkl,givfugbkgIoukfulua,
crlxgkpgAwvzbv,gbkgrlirbugmrfgbkgvgqvzgvxvrlabgbmugbtzvlbgWkotizvbua;
qmk,gvpbuzgmugmv gmuvz gbmurzgmvzvlxsugqrbmgxzuvbgxzvnrbtgvl gwvbruliu,
xvnugbmufgbmragvlaquz:g“Vagbkgbmuguhkz rsf,gRgzufuf.uzgrbglkb,glkz
iklauesulbotgbmugfr  ougkpgtkszgawuuim;gvl gpkzgqmvbgikliuzlagtksz
ikliosarkl,gRgqrooglkbg kgqmvbgtksg uarzu:”--[Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfagkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlaj]--vgnuztgwzubbtgvlaquzgbmra,gfubmrlca,gvl gvgwvicgkp
ouvzlu gkzvbkzagfkabgaquubotgxzvnuoou jggVl gqmvbg r gbmugkbmuzgfvlgavt?
BmugVbmulrvlagquzugbkgimkkaugklugkpgbqkgvzimrbuibagpkzgvgnuztgxzuvb
.sro rlxgbmutgmv g uarxlu ;gkpgbmuau,gbmugprzab,gvgwuzbgvppuibu gpuookq,
kppuzu gmragauznriugrlgvgoklxgwzufu rbvbu g raikszaugswklgbmugas.yuibgkp
bmugqkzcgrlgmvl ,gvl g.tgmragkzvbkztgrliorlu gbmugnkriuagkpgbmugwukwougrl
mragpvnksz;g.sbgbmugkbmuzgrlgbmzuugqkz a:g“KgVbmulrvla,gqmvbgbmragfvl
avta,gRgqroog kj”--[Wosbvzim,gRlabzsibrklagbkgAbvbuaful,gijg4j]--
QmulgIriuzkgqvagrlgbmugmurxmbgvl gmuvbgkpgvlguokesulbgmvzvlxsu,gfvltgquzu
abzsicgqrbmgv frzvbrkl;g.sbgIvbkgklotgovsxmu ,gavtrlx,g“Qugmvnugv
wouvavlbg(frzbm-fvcrlx)giklasoj”ggOubgrbgxkg.upkzu,gkzgikfugvpbuz,gvgxkk 
aulbuliugkzgvgbmrlxgquoogavr ,gragvoqvtagrlgauvakl;grpgrbglurbmuzgasrb
quoogqrbmgqmvbgqulbg.upkzu,glkzgmvagfsimgikmuzuliugqrbmgqmvbgpkookqa
vpbuz,grbgragxkk grlgrbauopjggRgvfglklugkpgbmkaugqmkgbmrlcgbmvbgxkk 
zmtfugfvcuagvgxkk gwkufjggOubgmrfgfvcugamkzbgoklx,gvl goklxgamkzbgrpgmu
qroo,g‘braglkgxzuvbgfvbbuz;grpgbmuzug.ugrlnulbrkl,gvl gbmvbgbmugqrbgvl 
ys xfulbgmvnugquoogwuzpkzfu gbmurzgkppriua,gRgqroogavt,gmuzu’agvgxkk 
wkub,g.sbgvlgroogzmtfuzj

ggggggggggggggg“Ufslibvuglvzra,g szsagikfwkluzugnuzasaj”

gggggggggg[“Kpg uorivbugmsfksz,g.sbgkpgzsxxu gnuzarprivbrklj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gAvb,grnjg8j]

Oubgvgfvl,gavtagMkzviu,g rnuabgmragqkzcgkpgvoogfubmk gvl gfuvaszu,

ggggggggg“Bufwkzvgiuzbvgfk kaesu,gub,gesk gwzrsagkz rlugnuz.sfguab,
ggggggggggWkabuzrsagpvirva,gwzvuwklulagsobrfvgwzrfra
ggggggggggRlnulrvagubrvfg rayuibrgfuf.zvgwkubvuj”

ggggg[“Bvcugvqvtgiuzbvrlgzmtbmfagvl gfuvaszua,gvl gfvcugbmugqkz gqmrim
gggggqvagprzabgrlgkz uzgikfugovbuz,gwsbbrlxgbmvbgqmrimgamkso g.ugovab
gggggprzab,gtksgqroogabroogprl gbmugaivbbuzu gzufvrlagkpgbmugwkubj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg4,g58j]

mugqrooglunuzgbmugfkzugokaugmrfauopgpkzgbmvb;gbmugnuztgwruiuagqroog.u
prlug.tgbmufauonuajggFulvl uz’agvlaquzgmv gbmragfuvlrlx,gqmkg.urlx
zuwzknu g.tgvgpzrul ,gbmugbrfug zvqrlxgklgvbgqmrimgmugmv gwzkfrau gv
ikfu t,gbmvbgmugmv glkbgtubgpvooulgrlgmvl gqrbmgrb;g“Rbgragfv u,gvl 
zuv t,”gavr gmu,g“voog.sbgbmugnuzauaj”--[Wosbvzim,gQmubmuzgbmugVbmulrvla
fkzuguhiuoou grlgVzfagkzgrlgOubbuzaj]--Mvnrlxgiklbzrnu gbmugas.yuib,gvl 
 rawkau gbmugaiuluagrlgmragpvlit,gmugbkkcgorbbougivzugpkzgbmugzuabj
ArliugZklavz gvl g sg.uoovtgmvnugxrnulgzuwsbvbrklgbkgkszgPzulimgwkuat,
unuztgorbboug v..ouz,gpkzgvsxmbgRgauu,gaquooagmragqkz agvagmrxm,gvl 
fvcuagmragiv uliuagnuztgluvzgvagmvzfklrksagvagbmut:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Wosagaklvb,gesvfgnvoubj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Fkzugaksl gbmvlgaulau”--Auluiv,gUwj,g40j]

Pkzgbmugnsoxvz,gbmuzugquzuglunuzgakgfvltgwkubvabuzagvaglkq;g.sbgbmksxm
bmutgprl grbglkgmvz gfvbbuzgbkgrfrbvbugbmurzgzmtfu,gbmutgtubgpvoo
rlprlrbuotgamkzbgkpgrfrbvbrlxgbmugzrimg uaizrwbrklagkpgbmugklu,gvl gbmu
 uorivbugrlnulbrklgkpgbmugkbmuzgkpgbmuaugfvabuzaj

.sbgqmvbgqroog.uikfugkpgkszgtkslxgxulboufvl,grpgmug.ugvbbvicu gqrbmgbmu
akwmrabrigas.boubtgkpgakfugatookxraf?gg“VgQuabpvorvgmvfgfvcuagvgfvl
 zrlc;g zrlcgesulimuagbmrzab:guzxkgvgQuabpvorvgmvfgesulimuagbmrzabj”
gQmt,goubgmrfgovsxmgvbgrb;grbgqroog.ugfkzug raizubrklgbkg kgak,gbmvlgbkgxk
v.ksbgbkgvlaquzgrb;gkzgoubgmrfg.kzzkqgbmragwouvavlbgunvarklgpzkf
Vzrabrwwsa:gg“Qmtgamkso gRgbzks.ougftauopgbkgslbrugbmvb,gqmrimg.ksl gva
rbgra,gxrnuagfugakgfsimgbzks.ou?”--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grrjg70j]--
Klugkppuzrlxgvbgbmrag rvouibrigysxxorlxgvxvrlabgIouvlbmua,gImztarwwsa
bkkcgmrfgamkzb,gavtrlx,g“Zuauznugbmuaug.vs.ouagbkgwovtgqrbmgimro zul,
vl g kglkbg.tgasimgpkkouzruag rnuzbgbmugauzrksagbmksxmbagkpgvgfvlgkp
tuvzaj”ggRpgbmuaugzr risoksagas.boubrua,

ggggggggggggggg“Iklbkzbvgubgvisouvbvgakwmrafvbv,”

vagIriuzkgivooagbmuf,gvzug uarxlu gbkgwkaauaagmrfgqrbmgvlgslbzsbm,gbmut
vzug vlxuzksa;g.sbgrpgbmutgarxlrptglkgfkzugbmvlgklotgbkgfvcugmrfgovsxm,
Rg kglkbgauugqmtgvgfvlgluu gbkg.ugpkzbrpru gvxvrlabgbmufjggBmuzugvzugakfu
akgzr risoksa,gvagbkgxkgvgfrougksbgkpgbmurzgqvtgbkgmkkcgrlgvgprlugqkz :

gggggggggg“Vsbgesrglklgnuz.vgzu.sagvwbvlb,gau gzuaguhbzrlauisa
ggggggggggvziuaaslb,gesr.sagnuz.vgiklnulrvlbj”

ggggg[“Qmkg kglkbgprbgqkz agbkgbmugas.yuib,g.sbgauucgksbgpkzgbmrlxa
gggggesrbugpzkfgbmugwszwkaugbkgprbgbmugqkz aj”--Esrlbrorvl,gnrrrjg3j]

Vl gvagvlkbmuzgavta,

gggggggggg“Esr,gvorisysagnuz.rg uikzugwoviulbra,gnkiulbszgv gr ,
ggggggggggesk glklgwzkwkasuzvlbgaizr.uzuj”

ggggg[“Qmkg.tgbmurzgpkl luaagkpgakfugprlugaksl rlxgqkz ,gvzugbufwbu gbk
gggggakfubmrlxgbmutgmv glkgrlbulbrklgbkgbzuvbgkpj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g59j]

Rgpkzgftgwvzbgzvbmuzg.zrlxgrlgvgprlugaulbuliug.tgmuv gvl gamkso uzagbk
prbgftgwszwkau,gbmvlg rnuzbgftg uarxlagbkgmslbgvpbuzgvgaulbuliujggKlgbmu
iklbzvzt,gqkz agvzugbkgauznu,gvl gbkgpkookqgvgfvl’agwszwkau;gvl goub
XvaiklgikfugrlgwovtgqmuzugPzulimgqrooglkbg kjggRgqkso gmvnugbmrlxagak
uhiuoorlx,gvl gakgqmkootgwkaauaarlxgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgkpgmrfgbmvbgmuvza,
bmvbgmugamkso gmvnugakfubmrlxguoaugbkg k,gbmvlgbkgbmrlcgkpgqkz ajggBmu
qvtgkpgawuvcrlxgbmvbgRgoknu,graglvbszvogvl gwovrl,gbmugavfugrlgqzrbrlxgva
rlgawuvcrlx,gvl gvgarluqtgvl gfsaisovzgqvtgkpguhwzuaarlxgvgfvl’agauop,
amkzbgvl gwrbmt,glkbgakguouxvlbgvl gvzbrprirvogvagwzkfwbgvl gnumufulb;

ggggggggggggggg“Mvuig ufsfgavwrubg ribrk,geshgpuzrub;”

ggggg[“Bmvbgmvagfkabgqurxmbgvl gqra kfgqmrimgwruziuagbmuguvzj”g(“Bmvb
gggggsbbuzvliugrl uu gqroogmvnugvgbvabugqmrimgamvoogabzrcugbmuguvzj”)
ggggg--UwrbvwmgklgOsivl,grlgPv.zrirsa,g.r.orkbmjggOvbj,grrjg10j]

zvbmuzgmvz gbmvlgquvzrakfu;gpzuugpzkfgvppuibvbrkl;grzzuxsovz,
rliklbrlsksa,gvl g.ko ;gqmuzugunuztgwruiugfvcuagswgvlgulbrzug.k t;glkb
orcugvgwu vlb,gvgwzuvimuz,gkzgvgwouv uz,g.sbgzvbmuzgvgako ruz-orcugabtou,
vagAsubklrsagivooagbmvbgkpgYsorsagIvuavz;gvl gtubgRgauuglkgzuvaklgqmtgmu
amkso givoogrbgakjggRgmvnugunuzg.uulgzuv tgbkgrfrbvbugbmugluxorxulbgxvz.,
qmrimgragtubgk.auznv.ougvfklxabgbmugtkslxgfulgkpgkszgbrfu,gbkgquvzgft
iokvcgklgklugamkso uz,gftgivwgklgklugar u,gvgabkicrlxgrlg rakz uz,gqmrim
auufagbkguhwzuaagvgcrl gkpgmvsxmbtg ra vrlgkpgbmuauguhkbrigkzlvfulba,gvl 
vgiklbufwbgkpgbmugvzbrprirvo;g.sbgRgprl gbmragluxorxuliugkpgfsimg.ubbuz
saugrlgbmugpkzfgkpgawuvcrlxjggVoogvppuibvbrkl,gwvzbrisovzotgrlgbmugPzulim
xvrubtgvl gpzuu kf,gragslxzviupsogrlgvgikszbruz,gvl grlgvgfklvzimtgunuzt
xulboufvlgksxmbgbkg.ugpvamrklu gviikz rlxgbkgbmugikszbgfk uo;gpkzgqmrim
zuvakl,gvlguvatgvl glvbszvogluxorxuliug kuagquoojggRglkgfkzugorcugvgqu.
qmuzugbmugclkbagvl gauvfagvzugbkg.ugauul,gbmvlgvgprlugprxszu,gak
 uorivbu,gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgbuoogvoogbmug.kluagvl gnurla:

ggggg“Esvugnuzrbvbrgkwuzvfg vbgkzvbrk,grlikfwkarbvgarbgubgarfwouhj”

ggggg[“Oubgbmugovlxsvxugbmvbgrag u rivbu gbkgbzsbmg.ugwovrlgvl 
gggggslvppuibu j--Auluiv,gUwjg40j]

gggggggggg“Esragviiszvbgokesrbsz,glrargesrgnsobgwsbr ugokesr?”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmkgabs ruagbkgawuvcgviiszvbuot,gbmvbg kuaglkbgvbgbmugavfu
gggggbrfugqramgbkgwuzwouhgmragvs rbkzt?”--R uf,gUwj,g75j]

Bmvbguokesuliugwzuys riuagbmugas.yuibgrbgqkso gv nvliu,gbmvbgqmkoot
vbbzvibagsagbkgrbauopjggVl gvagrlgkszgksbqvz gmv.rb,g‘bragvgzr risoksa
uppufrlvitgbkg rabrlxsramgkszauonuag.tgvgwvzbrisovzgvl gslsasvogxvz.gkz
pvamrkl;gakgrlgovlxsvxu,gbkgabs tgluqgwmzvaua,gvl gbkgvppuibgqkz agbmvb
vzuglkbgkpgiszzulbgsau,gwzkiuu agpzkfgvgwsuzrougvl gaimkovabrigvf.rbrklj
FvtgRg.ug.ksl gbkgawuvcglkgkbmuzgovlxsvxugbmvlgqmvbgragawkculgrlgbmu
fvzcub-woviuagkpgWvzra!ggVzrabkwmvluagbmugxzvffvzrvlgqvagesrbugksb,gqmul
mugzuwzumul u gUwriszsagpkzgmragwovrlgqvtgkpg uornuzrlxgmrfauop,gvl gbmu
 uarxlgkpgmragkzvbkzt,gqmrimgqvagklotgwuzawrisrbtgkpgawuuimj
Bmugrfrbvbrklgkpgqkz a,g.tgrbagkqlgpvirorbt,grffu rvbuotg rawuzauagrbauop
bmzksxmgvgqmkougwukwou;g.sbgbmugrfrbvbrklgkpgrlnulbrlxgvl gprbotgvwwotrlx
bmkaugqkz agragkpgvgaokquzgwzkxzuaajggBmugxuluzvorbtgkpgzuv uza,gpkz
mvnrlxgpksl gvgorcugzk.u,gnuztgfrabvcrlxotgrfvxrlugbmutgmvnugbmugavfu
.k tgvl grlar ugbkk,gqmuzuvagpkziugvl garluqagvzuglunuzgbkg.ug.kzzkqu ;
bmugxokaa,gvl gksbqvz gkzlvfulb,gbmvbgra,gqkz agvl guokisbrkl,gfvtjggFkab
kpgbmkaugRgiklnuzaugqrbm,gawuvcgbmugavfugovlxsvxugRgmuzugqzrbu;g.sb
qmubmuzgbmutgbmrlcgbmugavfugbmksxmbagRgivllkbgavtjggBmugVbmulrvla,gavta
Wovbk,gabs tgpsoluaagvl guouxvlitgkpgawuvcrlx;gbmugOviu vufklrvlagvppuib
.zunrbt,gvl gbmkaugkpgIzubugbkgvrfgfkzugvbgbmugpuisl rbtgkpgikliuwbrkl
bmvlgbmugpuzbrorbtgkpgawuuim;gvl gbmuaugvzugbmug.uabjggDulkgsau gbkgavt
bmvbgmugmv gbqkgakzbagkpg rairwoua,gklugbmvbgmugivoou git-----ksa,
iszrksagbkgouvzlgbmrlxa,gvl gbmuaugquzugmragpvnkszrbua;gbmugkbmuz,
vkt---ksa,gbmvbgivzu gpkzglkbmrlxg.sbgqkz ajggLkbgbmvbgprlugawuvcrlxgra
lkbgvgnuztgxkk gvl gikfful v.ougesvorbt;g.sbglkbgakguhiuooulbgvl gak
luiuaavztgvagakfugqkso gfvcugrb;gvl gRgvfgaivl vorau gbmvbgkszgqmkougorpu
amkso g.ugawulbgrlglkbmrlxguoaujggRgqkso gprzabgsl uzabvl gftgkql
ovlxsvxu,gvl gbmvbgkpgftglurxm.ksza,gqrbmgqmkfgfkabgkpgftg.sarluaagvl 
iklnuzavbrklgoruaj

Lkg ks.bg.sbgXzuucgvl gOvbrlgvzugnuztgxzuvbgkzlvfulba,gvl gkpgnuztgxzuvb
sau,g.sbgqug.stgbmufgbkkg uvzjggRgqroogmuzug raiknuzgklugqvt,gqmrimgmva
.uulguhwuzrfulbu grlgftgkqlgwuzakl,g.tgqmrimgbmutgvzugbkg.ugmv g.ubbuz
imuvw,gvl gasimgfvtgfvcugsaugkpgrbgvagqroojggFtgovbugpvbmuzgmvnrlxgfv u
bmugfkabgwzuiraugrlesrztgbmvbgvltgfvlgikso gwkaar.otgfvcugvfklxabgfulgkp
bmugxzuvbuabgouvzlrlxgvl gys xfulb,gkpgvlguhvibgfubmk gkpgu sivbrkl,gqva
.tgbmufgivsbrklu gkpgbmragrliklnulruliugbmulgrlgsau,gvl gfv ugbkg.uorunu,
bmvbgbmugbu rksagbrfugqugvwworu gbkgbmugouvzlrlxgkpgbmugbklxsuagkpgbmuf
qmkgmv gbmufgpkzglkbmrlx,gqvagbmugakougivsaugqugikso glkbgvzzrnugbkgbmu
xzvl uszgkpgaksogvl gwuzpuibrklgkpgclkqou xu,gkpgbmugvlirulbgXzuucagvl 
ZkfvlajggRg kglkb,gmkqunuz,g.uorunugbmvbgbkg.ugbmugklotgivsaujggAkgrbgra,
bmvbgbmuguhwu rulbgftgpvbmuzgpksl gksbgpkzgbmragqva,gbmvbgrlgftgrlpvlit,
vl g.upkzugRg.uxvlgbkgawuvc,gmugikffrbbu gfugbkgbmugivzugkpgvgXuzfvl,gqmk
arliug ru gvgpvfksagwmtarirvlgrlgPzvliu,gbkbvootgrxlkzvlbgkpgksz
ovlxsvxu,gvl gnuztgposulbgvl gvgxzuvbgizrbrigrlgOvbrljggBmragfvl,gqmkfgmu
mv gpubimu gksbgkpgmragkqlgikslbzt,gvl gqmkfgmugulbuzbvrlu gqrbmgvgxzuvb
avovztgpkzgbmragklotgklugul ,gmv gfugiklbrlsvootgqrbmgmrf;gmugmv gqrbm
mrfgvoakgykrlu gbqkgkbmuza,gkpgrlpuzrkzgouvzlrlx,gbkgvbbul gfu,gvl gbk
zuorunugmrf;gbmuaugawkcugbkgfugrlglkgkbmuzgovlxsvxug.sbgOvbrljggVagbkgbmu
zuabgkpgmragmksaumko ,grbgqvagvlgrlnrkov.ougzsou,gbmvbglurbmuzgmrfauop,
lkzgftgfkbmuz,glkzgnvoub,glkzgimvf.uzfvr ,gamkso gawuvcgvltbmrlxgrlgft
ikfwvlt,g.sbgasimgOvbrlgqkz agvaguvimgklugmv gouvzlu gbkgxv..ougqrbmgfuj
--[Bmuaugwvaavxuagvzu,gbmug.varagkpgvgafvoognkosfug.tgbmugV..ugFvlxrl:
“U sivbrklg ugFklbvrxlu;gks,gO’Vzbg ’ulaurxluzgougOvbrlgvgo’rlabvzg ua
fuzuagovbrluaj”]--Rbgraglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gmkqgxzuvbgvlgv nvlbvxugbmra
wzknu gbkgbmugqmkougpvfrot;gftgpvbmuzgvl gftgfkbmuzg.tgbmragfuvlagouvzlu 
Ovbrlgulksxmgbkgsl uzabvl grbgwuzpuibotgquoo,gvl gbkgawuvcgrbgbkgasimgv
 uxzuugvagqvagaspprirulbgpkzgvltgluiuaavztgsau;gvagvoakgbmkaugkpgbmu
auznvlbag r gqmkgquzugfkabgpzuesulbotgqrbmgfujggRlgamkzb,gqugOvbrlu grb
vbgasimgvgzvbu,gbmvbgrbgknuzpokqu gbkgvoogbmuglurxm.kszrlxgnroovxua,
qmuzugbmuzugtubgzufvrl,gbmvbgmvnuguabv.oramu gbmufauonuag.tgisabkf,
aunuzvogOvbrlgvwwuoovbrklagkpgvzbravlagvl gbmurzgbkkoajggVagpkzgqmvb
ikliuzlagftauop,gRgqvagv.knugarhgtuvzagkpgvxug.upkzugRgsl uzabkk gurbmuz
PzulimgkzgWuzrxkz rl,gvltgfkzugbmvlgVzv.ri;gvl gqrbmksbgvzb,g.kkc,
xzvffvz,gkzgwzuiuwb,gqmrwwrlx,gkzgbmuguhwulaugkpgvgbuvz,gRgmv ,g.tgbmvb
brfu,gouvzlu gbkgawuvcgvagwszugOvbrlgvagftgfvabuzgmrfauop,gpkzgRgmv glk
fuvlagkpgfrhrlxgrbgswgqrbmgvltgkbmuzjggRp,gpkzguhvfwou,gbmutgquzugbkgxrnu
fugvgbmufugvpbuzgbmugikoouxugpvamrkl,gbmutgxvnugrbgbkgkbmuzagrlgPzulim;
.sbgbkgfugbmutgquzugbkgxrnugrbgrlg.v gOvbrl,gbkgbszlgrbgrlbkgbmvbgqmrim
qvagxkk jggVl gLrikovagXzksimt,gqmkgqzkbugvg.kkcg ugIkfrbrragZkfvlkzsf;
XsroovsfugXsuzulbu,gqmkgqzkbugvgikffulbgswklgVzrabkbou:gXukzxug.simvlvl,
bmvbgxzuvbgAikbbramgwkub:gvl gFvzigVlbkrlugFszubg(qmkfg.kbmgPzvliugvl 
Rbvotgmvnugviclkqou xu gpkzgbmug.uabgkzvbkzgkpgmragbrfu),gftg kfuabri
bsbkza,gmvnugvoogkpgbmufgkpbulgbko gfugbmvbgRgmv grlgftgrlpvlitgbmvb
ovlxsvxugakgnuztgposulbgvl gzuv t,gbmvbgbmutgquzugvpzvr gbkgulbuzgrlbk
 raikszaugqrbmgfujggVl gwvzbrisovzotg.simvlvl,gqmkfgRgarliugavqgvbbul rlx
bmugovbugFvzuaimvog ug.zraavi,gbmulgbko gfu,gbmvbgmugqvagv.ksbgbkgqzrbugv
bzuvbraugkpgu sivbrkl,gbmuguhvfwougkpgqmrimgmugrlbul u gbkgbvcugpzkf
frlu;gpkzgmugqvagbmulgbsbkzgbkgbmvbgIkfbug ug.zraavigqmkgvpbuzqvz gwzknu 
akgnvorvlbgvl gakg.zvnugvgxulboufvlj

VagbkgXzuuc,gkpgqmrimgRgmvnug.sbgvgfuzugafvbbuzrlx,gftgpvbmuzgvoak
 uarxlu gbkgmvnugrbgbvsxmbgfug.tgvg unriu,g.sbgvgluqgklu,gvl g.tgqvtgkp
awkzb;gbkaarlxgkszg uioularklagbkgvl gpzk,gvpbuzgbmugfvlluzgkpgbmkaugqmk,
.tgiuzbvrlgxvfuagkpgbv.oua,gouvzlgxukfubztgvl gvzrbmfubrijggPkzgmu,
vfklxabgkbmuzgzsoua,gmv g.uulgv nrau gbkgfvcugfugzuoramgairuliugvl g sbt
.tgvlgslpkziu gqroo,gvl gkpgftgkqlgnkoslbvztgfkbrkl,gvl gbkgu sivbugft
aksogrlgvoogor.uzbtgvl g uorxmb,gqrbmksbgvltgaunuzrbtgkzgiklabzvrlb;
qmrimgmugqvagvlgk.auznuzgkpgbkgasimgvg uxzuu,gunulgkpgaswuzabrbrkl,grpgR
fvtgavtgak,gbmvbgakfug.urlxgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrbgbzks.ouagvl g rabsz.agbmu
.zvrlagkpgimro zulgas  ulotgbkgqvcugbmufgrlgbmugfkzlrlx,gvl gbkgalvbim
bmufgnrkoulbot--vl gknuz-mvabrotgpzkfgaouuwg(qmuzurlgbmutgvzugfsimgfkzu
wzkpksl otgrlnkonu gbmvlgqu),gmugivsau gfugbkg.ugqvculu g.tgbmugaksl gkp
akfugfsarivogrlabzsfulb,gvl gqvaglunuzgslwzknr u gkpgvgfsarirvlgpkzgbmvb
wszwkaujgg.tgbmraguhvfwougtksgfvtgys xugkpgbmugzuab,gbmragvoklug.urlx
aspprirulbgbkgzuikfful g.kbmgbmugwzs uliugvl gbmugvppuibrklgkpgakgxkk gv
pvbmuz,gqmkgraglkbgbkg.ug.ovfu grpgmug r glkbgzuvwgpzsrbagvlaquzv.ougbk
akguhesrarbugvgisobszujggKpgbmra,gbqkgbmrlxagquzugbmugivsau:gprzab,gv
abuzrougvl grfwzkwuzgakro;gpkz,gbmksxmgRgqvagkpgvgabzklxgvl gmuvobmpso
iklabrbsbrkl,gvl gkpgvg rawkarbrklgbkouzv.otgaquubgvl gbzvibv.ou,gtubgR
qva,gqrbmvo,gakgmuvnt,gr ou,gvl grl rawkau ,gbmvbgbmutgikso glkbgzksaugfu
pzkfgftgaokbm,glkbgunulgbkgxubgfugksbgbkgwovtjggQmvbgRgavq,gRgavqgiouvzot
ulksxm,gvl gsl uzgbmragmuvntgikfwouhrklglkszramu gvg.ko grfvxrlvbrklgvl 
kwrlrklagv.knugftgvxujggRgmv gvgaokqgqrbgbmvbgqkso gxkglkgpvabuzgbmvlgrb
qvagou ;gvgbvz tgsl uzabvl rlx,gvgovlxsramrlxgrlnulbrkl,gvl gv.knugvoo,
rlizu r.oug upuibgkpgfufkzt;gakgbmvb,grbgraglkgqkl uz,grpgpzkfgvoogbmuau
lkbmrlxgiklar uzv.ougikso g.uguhbzvibu jggAuikl ot,gorcugbmkaugqmk,
rfwvbrulbgkpgvoklxgvl gabuv tgiszu,gas.frbgbkgvoogakzbagkpgwzuaizrwbrkla
vl gzuirwua,gbmugxkk gfvlg.urlxguhbzufuotgbrfkzksagkpgvltgqvtgpvrorlxgrl
vgbmrlxgmugmv gakgqmkootgaubgmragmuvzbgswkl,gasppuzu gmrfauopgvbgovabgbk
.ugknuzzsou g.tgbmugikffklgkwrlrkla,gqmrimgvoqvtagpkookqgbmurzgouv uzgva
vgporxmbgkpgizvlua,gvl gikfwotrlxgqrbmgbmugfubmk gkpgbmugbrfu,gmvnrlxglk
fkzugbmkaugwuzaklagmugmv g.zksxmbgksbgkpgRbvot,gvl gqmkgmv gxrnulgmrfgbmu
przabgfk uogkpgu sivbrkl,gv.ksbgmrf,gmugaulbgfugvbgarhgtuvzagkpgvxugbk
bmugIkoouxugkpgXsrullu,gvbgbmvbgbrfugbmug.uabgvl gfkabgpokszramrlxgrl
PzvliujggVl gbmuzugrbgqvaglkbgwkaar.ougbkgv  gvltbmrlxgbkgbmugivzugmugmv 
bkgwzknr ugfugbmugfkabgv.ougbsbkza,gqrbmgvoogkbmuzgirzisfabvliuagkp
u sivbrkl,gzuauznrlxgvoakgaunuzvogwvzbrisovzgzsouagiklbzvztgbkgbmu
ikoouxugwzvibriu;g.sbgakgrbgqva,gbmvbgqrbmgvoogbmuaugwzuivsbrkla,grbgqva
vgikoouxugabroojggFtgOvbrlgrffu rvbuotgxzuqgikzzswb,gkpgqmrimgvoakg.t
 raiklbrlsvliugRgmvnugarliugokabgvoogfvlluzgkpgsau;gakgbmvbgbmragluqgqvt
kpgu sivbrklgauznu gfugbkglkgkbmuzgul ,gbmvlgklotgvbgftgprzabgikfrlxgbk
wzupuzgfugbkgbmugprzabgpkzfa;gpkzgvbgbmrzbuulgtuvzagko ,gbmvbgRgivfugksb
kpgbmugikoouxu,gRgmv gzslgbmzksxmgftgqmkougikszaug(vagbmutgivoogrb),gvl ,
rlgbzsbm,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgv nvlbvxu,gbmvbgRgivlgmkluabotg.zvxgkp,
rlgvoogbmragbrfuj

BmugprzabgbvabugqmrimgRgmv gpkzg.kkcagivfugbkgfugpzkfgbmugwouvaszugrl
zuv rlxgbmugpv.ouagkpgKnr ’agFubvfkzwmkaua;gpkz,g.urlxgv.ksbgaunulgkz
urxmbgtuvzagko ,gRgxvnugswgvoogkbmuzg rnuzarklagbkgzuv gbmuf,g.kbmg.t
zuvaklgbmvbgbmragqvagftgkqlglvbszvogovlxsvxu,gbmuguvaruabg.kkcgbmvbgRgqva
viesvrlbu gqrbm,gvl gpkzgbmugas.yuib,gbmugfkabgviikffk vbu gbkgbmu
ivwvirbtgkpgftgvxu:gpkzgvagpkzgbmugOvliuokbgkpgbmugOvcu,gbmugVfv ragkp
Xvso,gbmugMsklgkpg.kz uvsh,gvl gasimgpvzzvxka,g.tgqmrimgimro zulgvzugfkab
 uorxmbu gqrbm,gRgmv glunuzgakgfsimgvagmuvz gbmurzglvfua,glkgfkzugbmvlgR
tubgclkqgqmvbgbmutgiklbvrl;gakguhvibgqvagbmug rairworlugqmuzurlgRgqva
.zksxmbgswjgg.sbgbmragqvagulksxmgbkgfvcugfugluxouibgbmugkbmuzgouaakla
bmvbgquzugwzuaizr.u gfu;gvl gmuzugrbgqvagrlprlrbuotgbkgftgv nvlbvxu,
bkgmvnugbkg kgqrbmgvlgsl uzabvl rlxgbsbkz,gqmkgnuztgquoogcluqg raizuubot
bkgikllrnugvbgbmragvl gkbmuzgbzsvlbzruagkpgbmugavfuglvbszu;gpkzg.tgbmra
fuvlagRgzvlgbmzksxmgNrzxro’agVUlur ,gvl gbmulgBuzuliu,gvl gbmulgWovsbsa,
vl gbmulgakfugRbvorvlgikfu rua,gvooszu g.tgbmugaquubluaagkpgbmugas.yuib;
qmuzuvagmv gmug.uulgakgpkkoramgvagbkgmvnugbvculgfugkppgbmrag rnuzarkl,
Rg kgzuvootg.uorunu,gRgmv g.zksxmbgvqvtglkbmrlxgpzkfgbmugikoouxug.sbgv
mvbzu gkpg.kkca,gvagvofkabgvoogkszgtkslxgxulboufulg kjgg.sbgmugivzzru 
mrfauopgnuztg raizuubotgrlgbmvbg.sarluaa,gauufrlxgbkgbvcuglkglkbriu,gvl 
vookqrlxgfugklotgasimgbrfugvagRgikso gabuvogpzkfgftgkbmuzgzuxsovz
abs rua,gqmrimgqmubbu gftgvwwubrbugbkg unkszgbmkaug.kkcajggPkzgbmugimrup
bmrlxagftgpvbmuzguhwuibu gpzkfgbmurzgul uvnkszagbkgqmkfgmugmv g uornuzu 
fugpkzgu sivbrkl,gquzugvppv.rorbtgvl gxkk -msfksz;gvl ,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,
ftgfvlluzagmv glkgkbmuzgnriug.sbgaokbmgvl gqvlbgkpgfubvojggBmugpuvzgqva
lkbgbmvbgRgamkso g kgroo,g.sbgbmvbgRgamkso g kglkbmrlx;glk.k t
wzkxlkabrivbu gbmvbgRgamkso g.ugqricu ,g.sbgklotgsauouaa;gbmutgpkzuavq
r ouluaa,g.sbglkgfvoriu;gvl gRgprl grbgpvooagksbgviikz rlxot:
BmugikfwovrlbagRgmuvzgkpgftauopgvzugbmuau:g“Mugragr ou,giko grlgbmu
kppriuagkpgpzrul amrwgvl gzuovbrkl,gvl grlgbmkaugkpgbmugws.ori,gbkk
wvzbrisovz,gbkkg ra vrlpsoj”gg.sbgbmugfkabgrlyszrksag kglkbgavt,g“Qmtgmva
mugbvculgasimgvgbmrlx?ggQmtgmvagmuglkbgwvr gasimgvlgklu?”gg.sb,g“Qmtg kua
mugwvzbgqrbmglkbmrlx?ggQmtg kuagmuglkbgxrnu?”ggVl gRgamkso gbvcugrbgpkzgv
pvnkszgbmvbgfulgqkso guhwuibgpzkfgfuglkgxzuvbuzguppuibagkpgaswuzuzkxvbrkl
bmvlgbmuaujgg.sbgbmutgvzugslysabgbkguhvibgpzkfgfugqmvbgRg kglkbgkqu,gpvz
fkzugzrxkzksaotgbmvlgbmutgzuesrzugpzkfgkbmuzagbmvbgqmrimgbmutg kgkquj
Rlgikl uflrlxgfugbkgrb,gbmutguppviugbmugxzvbrprivbrklgkpgbmugvibrkl,gvl 
 uwzrnugfugkpgbmugxzvbrbs ugbmvbgqkso g.ugftg sugpkzgrb;gqmuzuvagbmu
vibrnugquoo- krlxgksxmbgbkg.ugkpgakgfsimgbmugxzuvbuzgnvosugpzkfgftgmvl a,
.tgmkqgfsimgRgmvnuglunuzg.uulgwvaarnugbmvbgqvtgvbgvoojggRgivlgbmugfkzu
pzuuotg rawkaugkpgftgpkzbslugbmugfkzugrbgragfrlu,gvl gkpgftauopgbmugfkzu
RgvfgftgkqljggLunuzbmuouaa,grpgRgquzugxkk gvbgaubbrlxgksbgftgkqlgvibrkla,
Rgikso ,gwuzv nulbszu,gnuztgquoogzuwuogbmuaugzuwzkvimua,gvl gikso gxrnu
akfugbkgsl uzabvl ,gbmvbgbmutgvzuglkbgakgfsimgkppul u ,gbmvbgRg kglkb
ulksxm,gvagbmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkg kgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugbmvlgRg kj

Tubgpkzgvoogbmragmuvntg rawkarbrklgkpgfrlu,gftgfrl ,gqmulgzubrzu grlbk
rbauop,gqvaglkbgvobkxubmuzgqrbmksbgabzklxgfknufulba,gakor gvl giouvz
ys xfulbagv.ksbgbmkaugk.yuibagrbgikso gikfwzumul ,gvl gikso gvoak,
qrbmksbgvltgmuowa,g rxuabgbmuf;g.sb,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gRg kgzuvoot
.uorunu,grbgmv g.uulgbkbvootgrfwkaar.ougbkgmvnugfv ugrbgbkgas.frbg.t
nrkouliugvl gpkziujggAmvoogRgmuzugviesvrlbgtksgqrbmgklugpvisobtgkpgft
tksbm?ggRgmv gxzuvbgvaaszvliugkpgikslbulvliu,gvl gpouhr.rorbtgkpgnkriu
vl gxuabszu,grlgvwwotrlxgftauopgbkgvltgwvzbgRgsl uzbkkcgbkgvib:gpkz
.upkzu--

gggggggggg“Vobuzgv.gsl uirfkgbsfgfugnrhgiuwuzvbgvllsa,”

ggggg[“Rgmv gysabgulbuzu gftgbquopbmgtuvzj”--Nrzxro,g.sikoj,g39j]

Rgwovtu gbmugimrupgwvzbagrlgbmugOvbrlgbzvxu ruagkpg.simvlvl,gXsuzulbu,
vl gFszub,gbmvbgquzugwzuaulbu grlgkszgIkoouxugkpgXsrullugqrbmgxzuvb
 rxlrbt:glkqgVl zuvagXknuvlsa,gkszgwzrlirwvo,gvagrlgvoogkbmuzgwvzbagkp
mragimvzxu,gqva,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gbmug.uabgkpgbmvbgufwoktfulbgrl
Pzvliu;gvl gRgqvagokkcu gswklgvagklugkpgbmug.uabgvibkzajgg‘Bragvl
uhuziraugbmvbgRg kglkbg ravwwzknugrlgtkslxgwukwougkpgikl rbrkl;gvl gR
mvnugarliugauulgkszgwzrliua,gvpbuzgbmuguhvfwougkpgakfugkpgbmugvlirulba,
rlgwuzaklgmvl akfuotgvl gikfful v.otgwuzpkzfgbmuauguhuziraua;grbgqvagunul
vookqu gbkgwuzaklagkpgesvorbtgbkgfvcugvgwzkpuaarklgkpgrbgrlgXzuuiuj

gggggggggg“Vzrabklrgbzvxrikgvibkzrgzufgvwuzrb:gmsrigubgxulsagub
ggggggggggpkzbslvgmkluabvguzvlb:gluigvza,gesrvglrmrogbvougvws 
ggggggggggXzvuikagws kzrguab,guvg upkzfv.vbj”

ggggg[“Mugrfwvzbu gbmragfvbbuzgbkgVzrabkgbmugbzvxu rvl;gvgfvlgkpgxkk 
gggggpvfrotgvl gpkzbslu,gqmrimglurbmuzgkpgbmufgzuiurnugvltg.ouframg.t
gggggbmvbgwzkpuaarkl;glkbmrlxgkpgbmragcrl g.urlxgzuwsbu gvg rawvzvxufulb
gggggrlgXzuuiuj”--Ornt,ghhrnjg24j]

Lvt,gRgmvnugvoqvtagbvhu gbmkaugqrbmgrfwuzbrluliugqmkgikl uflgbmuau
ulbuzbvrlfulba,gvl gqrbmgrlysabriugbmkaugqmkgzupsaugbkgv frbgasim
ikfu rvlagvagvzugqkzbmgauurlxgrlbkgkszgxkk gbkqla,gvl gxzs xugbmugwukwou
bmvbgws.orig rnuzarkljggQuoo-xknuzlu gikzwkzvbrklagbvcugivzugbkgvaauf.ou
bmurzgirbrdula,glkbgklotgbkgbmugakouflg sbruagkpg unkbrkl,g.sbgvoakgbk
awkzbagvl gawuibviouajggBmutgprl gakirubtgvl gpzrul amrwgvsxfulbu g.tgrb;
vl g.uar ua,givlgbmuzugwkaar.otg.ugvookqu gvgfkzugkz uzotgvl gzuxsovz
 rnuzarklgbmvlgqmvbgragwuzpkzfu gfgbmugarxmbgkpgunuztgklu,gvl gnuztgkpbul
rlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmugaswzufugfvxrabzvbugmrfauop?ggVl gR,gpkzgftgwvzb,
amkso gbmrlcgrbgzuvaklv.ou,gbmvbgbmugwzrliugamkso gakfubrfuagxzvbrptgmra
wukwougvbgmragkqlguhwulau,gksbgkpgwvbuzlvogxkk luaagvl gvppuibrkl;gvl 
bmvbgrlgwkwsoksagirbruagbmuzugamkso g.ugbmuvbzuaguzuibu gpkzgasim
ulbuzbvrlfulba,grpg.sbgbkg rnuzbgbmufgpzkfgqkzaugvl gwzrnvbugvibrklaj

Bkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgorcugvooszrlxgbmugvwwubrbugvl 
vppuibrkla;gkbmuzqraugtksgfvcuglkbmrlxg.sbgakgfvltgvaauagov ulgqrbm
.kkca;g.tg rlbgkpgbmugovam,gtksgxrnugbmufgbmurzgwkicubpsogkpgouvzlrlxgbk
cuuw;gqmuzuva,gbkg kgquoogtksgamkso glkbgklotgok xugrbgqrbmgbmuf,g.sb
fvcugbmufguawksaugrbj




IMVWBUZgHHNR

BMVBgRBgRAgPKOOTgBKgFUVASZUgBZSBMgVL gUZZKZg.TgKSZgKQLgIVWVIRBT

‘Braglkb,gwuzmvwa,gqrbmksbgzuvakl,gbmvbgqugvbbzr.sbugpvirorbtgkpg.uorup
vl guvarluaagkpgwuzasvarklgbkgarfworirbtgvl grxlkzvliu:gpkzgRgpvlitgR
mvnugmuvz g.uorupgikfwvzu gbkgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgvgauvogswklgbmugakso,
qmrimg.tgmkqgfsimgakpbuzgvl gkpgouaagzuarabvliugrbgra,gragbmugfkzuguvat
bkg.ugrfwzuaau gswklj

ggggggggg“Sbgluiuaauguab,govliufgrlgOr.zv,gwkl uzr.sagrfwkarbra,
gggggggggg uwzrfr,garigvlrfsfgwuzawrisragiu uzuj”

ggggg[“Vagbmugaivougkpgbmug.vovliugfsabgxrnugqvtgbkgbmugqurxmbgbmvb
gggggwzuaauagrbg kql,gakgbmugfrl gtruo agbkg ufklabzvbrklj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg12j]

.tgmkqgfsimgbmugaksogragfkzugufwbtgvl gqrbmksbgikslbuzwkrau,gqrbmgakgfsim
xzuvbuzgpvirorbtgrbgtruo agsl uzgbmugqurxmbgkpgbmugprzabgwuzasvarkljggVl 
bmragragbmugzuvaklgbmvbgimro zul,gbmugikffklgwukwou,gqkful,gvl garic
pkoca,gvzugfkabgvwbgbkg.ugou g.tgbmuguvzajgg.sbgbmul,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,
‘bragvgpkkoramgwzuasfwbrklgbkgaorxmbgvl gikl uflgvoogbmrlxagpkzgpvoau
bmvbg kglkbgvwwuvzgbkgsagwzk.v.ou;gqmrimgragbmugkz rlvztgnriugkpgasimgva
pvlitgbmufauonuagqrauzgbmvlgbmurzglurxm.kszajggRgqvagftauopgkliugklugkp
bmkau;gvl grpgRgmuvz gbvocgkpg uv gpkocagqvocrlx,gkpgwzkwmuirua,
ulimvlbfulba,gqrbimizvpba,gkzgvltgkbmuzgabkztgRgmv glkgfrl gbkg.uorunu:

gggggggggggggg“Akflrv,gbuzzkzuagfvxrika,gfrzvisov,gavxva,
gggggggggggggggLkibszlkagoufszua,gwkzbulbvesugBmuaavov,”

ggggg[“ zuvfa,gfvxrigbuzzkza,gfvznuoa,gakziuzrua,gBmuaavorvlgwzk rxruaj”
gggggg--MkzviujggUwjgrrjg3,g208j]

Rgwzuaulbotgwrbru gbmugwkkzgwukwougbmvbgquzugv.sau g.tgbmuaugpkooruaj
QmuzuvagRglkqgprl ,gbmvbgRgftauopgqvagbkg.ugwrbru gvagfsim,gvbgouvab,
vagbmut;glkbgbmvbguhwuzruliugmvagbvsxmbgfugvltbmrlxgbkgvobuzgftgpkzfuz
kwrlrkla,gbmksxmgftgiszrkarbtgmvagul uvnkszu gbmvbgqvt;g.sbgzuvaklgmva
rlabzsibu gfu,gbmvbgbmsagzuakosbuotgbkgikl uflgvltbmrlxgpkzgpvoaugvl 
rfwkaar.ou,gragvzzkxvlbotgvl grfwrksaotgbkgirzisfaizr.ugvl gorfrbgbmu
qroogkpgXk ,gvl gbmugwkquzgkpgkszgfkbmuzglvbszu,gqrbmrlgbmug.ksl agkpgft
kqlgivwvirbt,gbmvlgqmrimglkgpkootgivlg.ugxzuvbuzjggRpgqugxrnugbmuglvfua
kpgfklabuzgvl gfrzviougbkgunuztbmrlxgkszgzuvaklgivllkbgikfwzumul ,gmkq
fvltgvzugiklbrlsvootgwzuaulbu g.upkzugkszgutua?ggOubgsag.sbgiklar uz
bmzksxmgqmvbgioks a,gvl gvagrbgquzugxzkwrlxgrlgbmug vzc,gkszgbuvimuza
ouv gsagbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgfkabgkpgbmugbmrlxagv.ksbgsa;gvaaszu otgqu
amvoogprl gbmvbgrbgragzvbmuzgisabkfgbmvlgclkqou xugbmvbgbvcuagvqvtgbmurz
abzvlxuluaa--

gggggggggggggggggggg“Yvfglufk,gpuaasagavbszsaesugnr ul r,
gggggggggggggggAsawriuzugrlgikuorg rxlvbszgosir vgbufwov;”

ggggg[“Quvztgkpgbmugarxmb,glkqglkgklug urxlagbkgokkcgswgbkgmuvnul’agosir 
gggggbufwouaj”--Osizubrsa,grrjgg1037jggBmugbuhbgmvag‘abvbrvbugnr ulvr’]

vl gbmvbgrpgbmkaugbmrlxagquzuglkqgluqotgwzuaulbu gbkgsa,gqugamkso gbmrlc
bmufgvagrlizu r.ou,grpglkbgfkzu,gbmvlgvltgkbmuzaj

gggggggggggggg“Arglsligwzrfsfgfkzbvor.sagv arlb
gggggggggggggggUhgrfwzknrak,gargarlbgk.yuibvgzuwulbu,
gggggggggggggggLrogfvxragmragzu.sagwkbuzvbgfrzv.roug rir,
gggggggggggggggVsbugfrlsagvlbugesk gvs uzulbgpkzugizu uzugxulbuaj”

ggggg[Osizubrsa,grrjg1032jggBmugaulaugkpgbmugwvaavxugragrlgbmugwzuiu rlx
gggggaulbuliuj]

Mugbmvbgmv glunuzgauulgvgzrnuz,grfvxrlu gbmugprzabgmugfubgqrbmgbkg.ugbmu
auv;gvl gbmugxzuvbuabgbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugpvooulgqrbmrlgkszgclkqou xu,gqu
iklios ugbmuguhbzufuagbmvbglvbszugfvcuagkpgbmugcrl j

gggggggggggggg“Airoriubgubgposnrsagesrglklguabgfvhrfsa,gur’ab
gggggggggggggggEsrglklgvlbugvoresufgfvykzufgnr rb;gubgrlxula
gggggggggggggggVz.kz,gmkfkesugnr ubsz,gubgkflrvg ugxuluzugkflr
gggggggggggggggFvhrfvgesvugnr rbgesraesu,gmvuigrlxulbrvgprlxrbj”

ggggg[“Vgorbbougzrnuzgauufagbkgmrf,gqmkgmvaglunuzgauulgvgovzxuzgzrnuz,gv
gggggfrxmbtgabzuvf;gvl gakgqrbmgkbmuzgbmrlxa--vgbzuu,gvgfvl--vltbmrlx
gggggvwwuvzagxzuvbuabgbkgmrfgbmvbglunuzgcluqgvgxzuvbuzj”--R uf,gnrjg674j]

ggggggggg“Iklasubs rlugkisokzsfgvaasuaislbgvlrfr,gluesugv frzvlbsz,
ggggggggggluesugzuesrzslbgzvbrkluaguvzsfgzuzsf,gesvagaufwuzgnr ulbj”

ggggg[“Bmrlxagxzkqgpvfrorvzgbkgful’agfrl ag.tg.urlxgkpbulgauul;gakgbmvb
gggggbmutglurbmuzgv frzuglkzgvzugbmutgrlesrarbrnugv.ksbgbmrlxagbmutg vrot
gggggauuj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,gor.jgrrjg38j]

Bmuglknuobt,gzvbmuzgbmvlgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgbmrlxa,gbufwbagsagbkgrlesrzu
rlbkgbmurzgivsauajggQugvzugbkgys xugqrbmgfkzugzunuzuliu,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuz
viclkqou xfulbgkpgkszgkqlgrxlkzvliugvl grlprzfrbt,gkpgbmugrlprlrbugwkquz
kpglvbszujggMkqgfvltgslorcuotgbmrlxagvzugbmuzugbuabrpru g.tgwukwougqkzbmt
kpgpvrbm,gqmrim,grpgqugivllkbgwuzasv ugkszauonuagv.akosbuotgbkg.uorunu,
qugksxmbgvbgouvabgbkgouvnugbmufgrlgasawulau;gpkz,gbkgikl uflgbmufgva
rfwkaar.ou,grag.tgvgbufuzvzrksagwzuasfwbrklgbkgwzubul gbkgclkqgbmugsbfkab
.ksl agkpgwkaar.rorbtjgg r gqugzrxmbotgsl uzabvl gbmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhb
bmugrfwkaar.ougvl gbmugslsasvo,gvl g.ubqrhbgbmvbgqmrimgragiklbzvztgbkgbmu
kz uzgvl gikszaugkpglvbszugvl giklbzvztgbkgbmugikffklgkwrlrklgkpgful,grl
lkbg.uorunrlxgzvamot,gvl gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,grlglkbg.urlxgbkk
rlizu soksa,gqugamkso gk.auznugbmugzsougkpg‘Lugesr glrfra’gulykrlu g.t
Imrokj

Qmulgqugprl grlgPzkraavzb,gbmvbgbmugIkfbug ugPkrhggcluqgrlg.uvzlgbmu
 upuvbgkpgYkml,gcrlxgkpgIvabrou,gvbgYs.uzvgbmugluhbg vtgvpbuzgrb
mvwwulu ,gvl gbmugfuvlag.tgqmrimgmugbuooagsagmugivfugbkg kgak,gqugfvtg.u
vookqu gbkg.ugvgorbbougfuzztgvbgrb,gvagvoakgvbgqmvbgkszgvllvoagzuwkzb,
bmvbgWkwugMklkzrsa,gbmugavfug vtgbmvbgCrlxgWmrorwgVsxsabsag ru gvb
Fvlbua,gwuzpkzfu gmragws.origk.auesruagvbgZkfu,gvl gikffvl u gbmugorcu
bmzksxmksbgRbvot,gbmugbuabrfkltgkpgbmuaugvsbmkzaglkbg.urlx,gwuzmvwa,gkp
vsbmkzrbtgulksxmgbkgzuabzvrlgsajgg.sbgqmvbgrpgWosbvzim,g.uar uagaunuzvo
uhvfwouagbmvbgmugwzk siuagksbgkpgvlbresrbt,gbuooagsa,gmugclkqagkpgiuzbvrl
clkqou xu,gbmvbgrlgbmugbrfugkpg kfrbrvl,gbmugluqagkpgbmug.vbbougokabg.t
VlbkltgrlgXuzfvltgqvagws.oramu gvbgZkfu,gfvltg vta’gykszlutgpzkfgbmuliu,
vl g rawuzau gbmzksxmksbgbmugqmkougqkzo ,gbmugavfug vtgrbgqvagpksxmb;
vl grpgIvuavzgqvagkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgrbgmvagkpbulgmvwwulu ,gbmvbgbmugzuwkzb
mvagwzuiu u gbmugrlir ulb,gamvoogquglkbgavt,gbmvbgbmuaugarfwougwukwou
mvnugasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ug uiurnu gqrbmgbmugnsoxvz,gpkzglkbgmvnrlx
.uulgakgiouvz-arxmbu gvagqu?ggRagbmuzugvltbmrlxgfkzug uorivbu,gfkzu
iouvz,gfkzugawzrxmbot;gbmvlgWorlt’agys xfulb,gqmulgmugragwouvau gbkgaub
rbgbkgqkzc?ggVltbmrlxgfkzugzufkbugpzkfgnvlrbt?ggAubbrlxgvar ugmra
ouvzlrlx,gkpgqmrimgRgfvcugouaagviikslb,grlgqmrimgkpgbmuauguhiuoouliuag k
vltgkpgsaguhiuogmrf?ggVl gtubgbmuzugragaivziugvgtkslxgaimkko.ktgbmvbg kua
lkbgiklnribgmrfgkpgslbzsbm,gvl gbmvbgwzubul aglkbgbkgrlabzsibgmrfgrlgbmu
wzkxzuaagkpgbmugqkzcagkpglvbszujggQmulgqugzuv grlg.ksimubgbmugfrzviouagkp
AbjgMrovzt’agzuoria,gvqvtgqrbmgbmuf:gmragvsbmkzrbtgraglkbgaspprirulbgbk
 uwzrnugsagkpgbmugor.uzbtgkpgiklbzv ribrlxgmrf;g.sbgxuluzvootgvl gkppmvl 
bkgikl uflgvoogasimorcugabkzrua,gauufagbkgfugvgarlxsovzgrfws uliujggBmvb
xzuvbgAbjgVsxsabrl’gbuabrpruagbkgmvnugauulgvg.orl gimro gzuiknuzgarxmb
swklgbmugzuoriagkpgAbjgXuznvarsagvl gAbjgWzkbvarsagvbgFrovl;gvgqkfvlgvb
Ivzbmvxugiszu gkpgvgivliuz,g.tgbmugarxlgkpgbmugizkaagfv ugswklgmuzg.tgv
qkfvlgluqotg.vwbrdu ;gMuawuzrsa,gvgpvfrorvzgpzrul gkpgmra,gbkgmvnug zrnul
vqvtgbmugawrzrbagbmvbgmvslbu gmragmksau,gqrbmgvgorbbouguvzbmgkpgbmu
auwsoimzugkpgkszgOkz ;gqmrimguvzbm,g.urlxgvoakgbzvlawkzbu gbmuliugrlbk
bmugimszim,gvgwvzvotbrigbkgmvnugbmuzug.uulgas  ulotgiszu g.tgrb;gvgqkfvl
rlgvgwzkiuaarkl,gmvnrlxgbksimu gAbjgAbuwmul’agamzrlugqrbmgvglkauxvt,gvl 
zs..rlxgmuzgutuagqrbmgrb,gbkgmvnugzuiknuzu gmuzgarxmb,gokabgfvltgtuvza
.upkzu;gqrbmgaunuzvogkbmuzgfrzviouagkpgqmrimgmugwzkpuaauagmrfauopgbkgmvnu
.uulgvlgutuqrbluaa:gkpgqmvbgamvoogquguhisaugmrfgvl gbmugbqkgmkotg.ramkwa,
Vszuorsagvl gFvhrfrlsa,g.kbmgkpgqmkfgmugvbbuabagbkgbmugbzsbmgkpgbmuau
bmrlxa?ggAmvoogrbg.ugkpgrxlkzvliu,garfworirbt,gvl gpvirorbt;gkzgkpgfvoriu
vl grfwkabszu?ggRagvltgfvlglkqgornrlxgakgrfws ulbgvagbkgbmrlcgmrfauop
ikfwvzv.ougbkgbmufgrlgnrzbsu,gwrubt,gouvzlrlx,gys xfulb,gkzgvltgcrl gkp
wuzpuibrkl?

gggggggggggggg“Esr,gsbgzvbrklufglsoovfgvppuzzulb,
gggggggggggggggrwavgvsibkzrbvbugfugpzvlxuzulbj”


ggggg[“Qmk,gbmksxmgbmutgamkso gv  siuglkgzuvakl,gqkso giklnrliugfugqrbm
gggggbmurzgvsbmkzrbtgvokluj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvua,grjg21j]

‘Bragvgwzuasfwbrklgkpgxzuvbg vlxuzgvl giklauesuliu,g.uar uagbmugv.asz 
bufuzrbtgrbg zvqagvpbuzgrb,gbkgiklbuflgqmvbgqug kglkbgikfwzumul jggPkz
vpbuz,gviikz rlxgbkgtkszgprlugsl uzabvl rlx,gtksgmvnuguabv.oramu gbmu
orfrbagkpgbzsbmgvl guzzkz,gvl gbmvb,gvpbuzqvz a,gbmuzugvwwuvzagv
luiuaarbtgswklgtksgkpg.uorunrlxgabzvlxuzgbmrlxagbmvlgbmkaugtksgmvnu
iklbzv ribu ,gtksgvzugvozuv tgk.orxu gbkgesrbgtkszgorfrbajggLkq,gbmvb
qmrimgauufagbkgfugakgfsimgbkg rakz uzgkszgiklairuliuagrlgbmugikffkbrkla
qugvzuglkqgrlgikliuzlrlxgzuorxrkl,gragbmugIvbmkoriag rawularlxgakgfsim
qrbmgbmurzg.uorupjggBmutgpvlitgbmutgvwwuvzgfk uzvbu,gvl gqrau,gqmulgbmut
xzvlbgbkgbmurzgkwwklulbagakfugkpgbmugvzbriouagrlgesuabrkl;g.sb,g.uar ua
bmvbgbmutg kglkbg raiuzlgqmvbgv nvlbvxugrbgragbkgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgqu
iklbul ,gbkg.uxrlgbkgxrnugxzksl gvl gbkgzubrzu,gvl gmkqgfsimgbmra
vlrfvbuagkszguluftgbkgpkookqgmrag.okq:gbmuaugvzbriouagqmrimgbmutgauouib
vagbmrlxagrl rppuzulb,gvzugakfubrfuagkpgnuztgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliujggQugvzu
urbmuzgqmkootgvl gv.akosbuotgbkgas.frbgkszauonuagbkgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgksz
uiiouarvabrivogwkorbt,gkzgbkbvootgbmzkqgkppgvoogk.u ruliugbkgrb:g‘braglkb
pkzgsagbkg ubuzfrlugqmvbgvl gmkqgfsimgk.u ruliugqugkqugbkgrbjggVl gbmragR
ivlgavt,gvagmvnrlxgftauopgfv ugbzrvogkpgrb,gbmvbgmvnrlxgpkzfuzotgbvcul
bmugor.uzbtgkpgftgkqlgaqrlxgvl gpvlit,gvl gkfrbbu gkzgluxouibu giuzbvrl
zsouagkpgbmug rairworlugkpgkszgImszim,gqmrimgauufu gbkgfugnvrlgvl 
abzvlxugikfrlxgvpbuzqvz agbkg raikszaugkpgrbgqrbmgouvzlu gful,gRgmvnu
pksl gbmkaugavfugbmrlxagbkg.ug.srobgswklgnuztgxkk gvl gakor gxzksl gvl 
abzklxgpksl vbrkl;gvl gbmvbglkbmrlxg.sbgabswr rbtgvl grxlkzvliugfvcuagsa
zuiurnugbmufgqrbmgouaagzunuzuliugbmvlgbmugzuabjggQmtg kgquglkbgiklar uz
qmvbgiklbzv ribrklagqugprl grlgkszgkqlgys xfulba;gmkqgfvltgbmrlxagquzu
tuabuz vtgvzbriouagkpgkszgpvrbm,gbmvbgbk- vtgvwwuvzglkgkbmuzgbmvlgpv.oua?
Xokztgvl giszrkarbtgvzugbmugaikszxuagkpgbmugakso;gbmugovabgwzkfwbagsagbk
bmzsabgkszglkauagrlbkgunuztbmrlx,gbmugkbmuzgpkz.r agsagbkgouvnugvltbmrlx
 ks.bpsogvl gsl uir u j




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgimro gamkso glkbg.ug.zksxmbgswgrlgmragfkbmuz’agovw
gggggViesruaiugvl gas.frbgbkgbzsbm
gggggVppuibgqkz agbmvbgvzuglkbgkpgiszzulbgsau
gggggVltbmrlxgvwwuvzagxzuvbuabgbkgmrfgbmvbglunuzgcluqgvgxzuvbuz
gggggVwwubrbugbkgzuv gfkzu,gbmvlgxosbbu gqrbmgbmvbgqugmvnu
gggggVwwovs gmragys xfulbgbmvlgikfful gmragclkqou xu
gggggVbbzr.sbugpvirorbtgkpg.uorupgbkgarfworirbtgvl grxlkzvliu
gggggVqvtgqrbmgbmragnrkouliu!ggvqvtgqrbmgbmragikfwsoarkl!
ggggg.uvzagquoogvgimvlxu gpkzbslu,gvibrlxg.kbmgwvzbaguesvootgquoo
ggggg.uorupgikfwvzu gbkgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgvgauvogswklgbmugakso
gggggiokvcgklgklugamkso uz,gftgivwgklgklugar u,gvgabkicrlxg rakz uzu 
gggggIkoouxu:gvgzuvogmksaugkpgikzzuibrklgkpgrfwzraklu gtksbm
ggggg raxkzxugqmvbgquguvbgrlgbmugavfugikl rbrklgrbgqvagaqvookqu 
gggggU sivbrklgksxmbgbkg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmgvgaunuzugaquubluaa
gggggUokesuliugwzuys riuagbmugas.yuibgrbgqkso gv nvliu
gggggPuvzgqvaglkbgbmvbgRgamkso g kgroo,g.sbgbmvbgRgamkso g kglkbmrlx
gggggXokztgvl giszrkarbtgvzugbmugaikszxuagkpgbmugakso
gggggMk..uagavr gbmvbgrpgmugmv g.uulgvbgikoouxugvagoklxgvagkbmuza--
gggggRlesrarbrnugvpbuzgunuztbmrlx
gggggRlauzbgqmkougauibrklagvl gwvxuagksbgkpgvlirulbgvsbmkza
gggggRbgraglkgmvz gfvbbuzgbkgxubgimro zul
gggggOuvzlgqmvbgrbgragzrxmbgbkgqram
gggggOuvabgbksimgkzgwzricgkpgvgwulirogrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugqmkou
gggggOubgmrfg.ugavbrapru gqrbmgikzzuibrlxgmrfauop
gggggOubgmrfguhvfrlugunuztgfvl’agbvoulb
gggggOrxmbgwzkxlkabriagbmutgxrnugkpgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzgbul uzgtuvza
gggggOrnrlxgquoo,gqmrimgkpgvoogvzbagragbmugxzuvbuab
gggggOk xuglkbmrlxgrlgmragpvlitgswklgarfwougvsbmkzrbtgvl gswklgbzsab
gggggFvlgfvtgavtgbkkgfsimgunulgswklgbmug.uabgas.yuiba
gggggFrzviou:gunuztbmrlxgkszgzuvaklgivllkbgikfwzumul 
gggggFkzkarbtgvl gfuovlimkorigmsfkszgkpgvgakszgroo-lvbszu gwu vlb
gggggFkbmuzagvzugbkkgbul uz
gggggLuxorxulbgxvz.,gqmrimgragtubgk.auznv.ougvfklxabgbmugtkslxgful
gggggLk.k tgwzkxlkabrivbu gbmvbgRgamkso g.ugqricu ,g.sbgklotgsauouaa
gggggLkbgmvnrlxg.uulgv.ougbkgwzklksliugklugatoov.ou,gqmrimgragLk!
gggggKgVbmulrvla,gqmvbgbmragfvlgavta,gRgqroog k
gggggK.abrlvitgvl giklbulbrklgvzugikffklgesvorbrua
gggggKiivarklgbkgOvg.kubrugbkgqzrbugmrag“NkoslbvztgAuznrbs u”
ggggggWmrokakwmtgmvag raikszauagwzkwuzgpkzgimro mkk 
gggggWmrokakwmtgragbmvbgqmrimgrlabzsibagsagbkgornu
gggggWmrokakwmtgokkcu gswklgvagvgnvrlgvl gpvlbvabriglvfu
gggggWzupviugbkg.zr.ugbmug.ulunkouliugkpgbmugikszbuksagzuv uz
gggggZuv rlxgbmkaug.kkca,giklnuzaugqrbmgbmugxzuvbgvl gmuzkrigaksoa
gggggArouliu,gbmuzupkzu,gvl gfk uabtgvzugnuztgv nvlbvxuksagesvorbrua
gggggAkgfvltgbzroorklagkpgful,g.szru g.upkzugsa
gggggAwvzrlxgvl gvlgmsa.vl gkpgmragclkqou xu
gggggBmugikl sibgkpgkszgornuagragbmugbzsugfrzzkzgkpgkszg kibzrlu
gggggBmugfkabgfvlrpuabgarxlgkpgqra kfgragvgiklbrlsvogimuuzpsoluaa
gggggBmurzgov.kszgraglkbgbkg uornuzt,g.sbgv.ksbgikliuwbrkl
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgorcugvooszrlxgbmugvwwubrbugvl gvppuibrkla
gggggBmutg.uxrlgbkgbuvimgsagbkgornugqmulgqugmvnugvofkabg klugornrlx
gggggBmrlxagxzkqgpvfrorvzgbkgful’agfrl ag.tg.urlxgkpbulgauul
gggggBkgikl uflgbmufgvagrfwkaar.ou,grag.tgvgbufuzvzrksagwzuasfwbrkl
gggggBkgiklbuflgqmvbgqug kglkbgikfwzumul 
gggggBkgxkgvgfrougksbgkpgbmurzgqvtgbkgmkkcgrlgvgprlugqkz 
gggggBkgclkqg.tgzkbu,graglkgclkqou xu
gggggBklxsugqroogxzkqgbkkgabrppgbkg.ul 
gggggBkbvootg.zsbrpru g.tgvlgrffk uzvbugbmrzabgvpbuzgclkqou xu
gggggSl.uikfrlxgzs uluaagbkgivzwgvbgunuztbmrlx
gggggSlysabgbkguhvibgpzkfgfugqmvbgRg kglkbgkqu
gggggQmuzugbmurzgwzkprbgra,goubgbmufgbmuzugmvnugbmurzgwouvaszugbkk
gggggQmkg.tgbmurzgpkl luaagkpgakfugprlugaksl rlxgqkz 






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg6j

HHNRRjggggKpgpzrul amrwj
HHNRRRjgggLrlu-vl -bqulbtgakllubagkpgUabrullug ugovg.kubruj
HHRHjgggggKpgfk uzvbrklj
HHHjggggggKpgivllr.voaj
HHHRjgggggBmvbgvgfvlgragak.uzotgbkgys xugkpgbmug rnrlugkz rlvliuaj
HHHRRjggggBmvbgqugvzugbkgvnkr gwouvaszua,gunulgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgorpuj
HHHRRRjgggBmvbgpkzbslugragkpbulbrfuagk.auznu gbkgvibg.tgbmugzsougkp
ggggggggggzuvaklj
HHHRNjggggKpgklug upuibgrlgkszgxknuzlfulbj
HHHNjgggggKpgbmugisabkfgkpgquvzrlxgiokbmuaj
HHHNRjggggKpgIvbkgbmugTkslxuzj
HHHNRRjgggBmvbgqugovsxmgvl giztgpkzgbmugavfugbmrlxj
HHHNRRRjggKpgakorbs uj




IMVWBUZgHHNRR

KPgPZRUL AMRW

Mvnrlxgiklar uzu gbmugwzkiuu rlxagkpgvgwvrlbuzgbmvbgauznuagfu,gRgmv gv
frl gbkgrfrbvbugmragqvtjggMugimkkauagbmugpvrzuabgwoviugvl gfr  ougkpgvlt
qvoo,gkzgwvluo,gqmuzurlgbkg zvqgvgwribszu,gqmrimgmugprlramuagqrbmgmra
sbfkabgivzugvl gvzb,gvl gbmugnvisrbtgv.ksbgrbgmugprooagqrbmgxzkbuaesua,
qmrimgvzugk  gpvlbvabrigprxszuagqrbmksbgvltgxzviug.sbgqmvbgbmutg uzrnu
pzkfgbmurzgnvzrubt,gvl gbmuguhbzvnvxvliugkpgbmurzgamvwuajggVl grlgbzsbm,
qmvbgvzugbmuaugbmrlxagRgaizr..ou,gkbmuzgbmvlgxzkbuaesuagvl gfklabzksa
.k rua,gfv ugkpgnvzrksagwvzba,gqrbmksbgvltgiuzbvrlgprxszu,gkzgvltgkbmuz
bmvlgviir ulbvogkz uz,gikmuzuliu,gkzgwzkwkzbrkl?

ggggggggggggggg“ uarlrbgrlgwraiufgfsoruzgpkzfkavgaswuzluj”

gggggggggg[“Vgpvrzgqkfvlgrlgmuzgswwuzgpkzfgbuzfrlvbuagrlgvgpramj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,g ugVzbugWkubriv,gnjg4j]

Rlgbmragauikl gwvzbgRgxkgmvl grlgmvl gqrbmgftgwvrlbuz;g.sbgpvoognuzt
amkzbgkpgmrfgrlgbmugprzabgvl gbmug.ubbuz,gftgwkquzgkpgmvl orlxglkbg.urlx
asim,gbmvbgRg vzugbkgkppuzgvbgvgzrimgwruiu,gprluotgwkoramu ,gvl gaubgkpp
viikz rlxgbkgvzbjggRgmvnugbmuzupkzugbmksxmbgprbgbkg.kzzkqgklugkpgUabrullu
 ugovg.kubru,gvl gasimgvgklugvagamvoogmklkszgvl gv kzlgvoogbmugzuabgkpgft
qkzc--lvfuot,gvg raikszaugbmvbgmugivoou g‘NkoslbvztgAuznrbs u’;g.sb,
arliu,gbmkaugqmkg r glkbgclkqgmrfgmvnugwzkwuzotgulksxmgivoou grbg“Ou
iklbzgSlj”ggMugqzkbugrlgmragtksbm,--[“Lkbg.urlxgvagtubgurxmbuulgtuvza
ko j”--U rbrklgkpg1588j]g.tgqvtgkpguaavt,grlgmklkszgkpgor.uzbtgvxvrlab
btzvlba;gvl grbgmvagarliugzslgbmzksxmgbmugmvl agkpgfulgkpgxzuvbgouvzlrlx
vl gys xfulb,glkbgqrbmksbgarlxsovzgvl gfuzrbu gikfful vbrkl;gpkzgrbgra
prluotgqzrbbul,gvl gvagpsoogvagvltbmrlxgivlgwkaar.otg.ujggVl gtubgklugfvt
iklpr ulbotgavtgrbgragpvzgamkzbgkpgqmvbgmugqvagv.ougbkg k;gvl grpgrlgbmvb
fkzugfvbszugvxu,gqmuzurlgRgmv gbmugmvwwrluaagbkgclkqgmrf,gmugmv gbvculgv
 uarxlgorcugbmragkpgfrlu,gbkgikffrbgmragbmksxmbagbkgqzrbrlx,gqugamkso 
mvnugauulgvgxzuvbgfvltgzvzugbmrlxa,gvl gasimgvagqkso gmvnugxklugnuztgluvz
bkgmvnugzrnvoou gbmug.uabgqzrbrlxagkpgvlbresrbt:gpkzgrlglvbszvogwvzba
uawuirvoot,gRgclkqglkgfvlgikfwvzv.ougbkgmrfjgg.sbgmugmvagoupbglkbmrlx
.umrl gmrf,gavnugbmragbzuvbraugklotg(vl gbmvbgbkkg.tgimvliu,gpkzgR
.uorunugmuglunuzgavqgrbgvpbuzgrbgprzabgqulbgksbgkpgmragmvl a),gvl gakfu
k.auznvbrklagswklgbmvbgu ribgkpgYvlsvzt--[1562,gqmrimgxzvlbu gbkgbmu
Msxsulkbagbmugws.origuhuziraugkpgbmurzgzuorxrklj]--fv ugpvfksag.tgksz
irnro-qvza,gqmrimgvoakgamvooguoauqmuzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gprl gvgwoviuj
BmuaugquzugvoogRgikso gzuiknuzgkpgmragzufvrla,gRgbkgqmkfgqrbmgak
vppuibrklvbugvgzufuf.zvliu,gswklgmrag uvbm-.u ,gmug.tgmragovabgqroo
.uesuvbmu gmragor.zvztgvl gwvwuza,gbmugorbboug.kkcgkpgmragqkzcagklot
uhiuwbu ,gqmrimgRgikffrbbu gbkgbmugwzuaajggVl gbmragwvzbrisovzgk.orxvbrkl
Rgmvnugbkgbmragbzuvbraugkpgmra,gbmvbgrbgqvagbmugkiivarklgkpgftgprzab
ikfrlxgviesvrlbu gqrbmgmrf;gpkzgrbgqvagamkqu gbkgfugoklxg.upkzugRgmv gbmu
xkk gpkzbslugbkgclkqgmrf;gvl gbmugprzabgclkqou xugkpgmraglvfu,gwzknrlx
bmugprzabgivsaugvl gpksl vbrklgkpgvgpzrul amrw,gqmrimgqugvpbuzqvz a
rfwzknu gvl gfvrlbvrlu ,gakgoklxgvagXk gqvagwouvau gbkgiklbrlsugsa
bkxubmuz,gakgwuzpuib,grlnrkovbu,gvl gulbrzu,gbmvbgiuzbvrlotgbmugorcugra
mvz otgbkg.ugpksl grlgabkzt,gvl gvfklxabgbmugfulgkpgbmragvxu,gbmuzugraglk
arxlglkzgbzviugkpgvltgasimgbmrlxgrlgsau;gakgfsimgikliszzuliugragzuesrzu 
bkgbmug.sro rlxgkpgasimgvgklu,gbmvbg‘bragfsim,grpgpkzbslug.zrlxgrbg.sb
kliugbkgwvaagrlgbmzuugvxuaj

Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgbkgqmrimglvbszugauufagakgfsimgbkgmvnugrliorlu gsa,gvagbk
akirubt;gvl gVzrabkboug,gavtagbmvbgbmugxkk gouxraovbkzagmv gfkzugzuawuib
bkgpzrul amrwgbmvlgbkgysabriujggLkqgbmugfkabgaswzufugwkrlbgkpgrba
wuzpuibrklgragbmra:gpkz,gxuluzvoot,gvoogbmkaugbmvbgwouvaszu,gwzkprb,
ws.origkzgwzrnvbugrlbuzuabgizuvbugvl glkszram,gvzugakgfsimgbmugouaa
.uvsbrpsogvl gxuluzksa,gvl gakgfsimgbmugouaagpzrul amrwa,g.tgmkqgfsim
bmutgfrhgvlkbmuzgivsau,gvl g uarxl,gvl gpzsrbgrlgpzrul amrw,gbmvlgrbauopj
Lurbmuzg kgbmugpkszgvlirulbgcrl a,glvbszvo,gakirvo,gmkawrbv.ou,gnuluzuvo,
urbmuzgauwvzvbuotgkzgykrlbot,gfvcugswgvgbzsugvl gwuzpuibgpzrul amrwj

Bmvbgkpgimro zulgbkgwvzulbagragzvbmuzgzuawuib:gpzrul amrwgraglkszramu g.t
ikffslrivbrkl,gqmrimgivllkbg.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugxzuvbg rawvzrbt,g.ug.ubqrhb
bmuau,g.sbgqkso gzvbmuzgwuzmvwagkppul gbmug sbruagkpglvbszu;gpkzglurbmuz
vzugvoogbmugauizubgbmksxmbagkpgpvbmuzagprbgbkg.ugikffslrivbu gbk
imro zul,gouabgrbg.uxubgvlgrl uiulbgpvfrorvzrbtg.ubqrhbgbmuf;glkzgivlgbmu
v nriuagvl gzuwzkkpa,gqmrimgragklugkpgbmugwzrlirwvogkppriuagkp
pzrul amrw,g.ugwzkwuzotgwuzpkzfu g.tgbmugaklgbkgbmugpvbmuzjggBmuzugvzu
akfugikslbzruagqmuzug‘bqvagbmugisabkfgpkzgimro zulgbkgcroogbmurzgpvbmuza;
vl gkbmuza,gqmuzugbmugpvbmuzagcroou gbmurzgimro zul,gbkgvnkr gbmurzg.urlx
vlgrfwu rfulbgklugbkgvlkbmuzgrlgorpu;gvl glvbszvootgbmuguhwuibvbrklagkp
bmugklug uwul gswklgbmugzsrlgkpgbmugkbmuzjggBmuzugmvnug.uulgxzuvb
wmrokakwmuzagqmkgmvnugfv uglkbmrlxgkpgbmragbrugkpglvbszu,gvagVzrabrwwsa
pkzgklu,gqmkg.urlxgwzuaau gmkfugv.ksbgbmugvppuibrklgmugkqu gbkgmra
imro zul,gvag.urlxgikfugksbgkpgmrf,gwzuaulbotgpuoogbkgawrb,gavtrlx,gbmvb
bmragvoakgivfugksbgkpgmrf,gvl gbmvbgqugvoakg.zuu gqkzfagvl goriu;gvl 
bmvbgkbmuz,gbmvbgWosbvzimgul uvnkszu gbkgzuiklirougbkgmrag.zkbmuz:
“Rgfvcuglunuzgbmugfkzugviikslbgkpgmrf,”gavr gmu,g“pkzgikfrlxgksbgkpgbmu
avfugmkouj”ggBmraglvfugkpg.zkbmuzg kuagrl uu givzztgqrbmgrbgvgprlugvl 
 uouibv.ougaksl ,gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvakl,gmugvl gRgivoou gklugvlkbmuz
.zkbmuzag.sbgbmugikfworivbrklgkpgrlbuzuaba,gbmug rnrarklgkpguabvbua,gvl 
bmvbgbmugquvobmgkpgbmugklugamkso g.ugbmugwzkwuzbtgkpgbmugkbmuz,gabzvlxuot
zuovhgvl gquvculgbmugpzvbuzlvogbru:g.zkbmuzagwszasrlxgbmurzgpkzbslugvl 
v nvliufulbg.tgbmugavfugwvbm,g‘bragmvz otgwkaar.oug.sbgbmutgfsabgkp
luiuaarbtgkpbulgykabougvl gmrl uzgklugvlkbmuzjgg.uar ua,gqmtgragrb
luiuaavztgbmvbgbmugikzzuawkl uliugkpgfvlluza,gwvzba,gvl grliorlvbrkla,
qmrimg.uxubagbmugbzsugvl gwuzpuibgpzrul amrwa,gamkso gvoqvtagfuubgrl
bmuaugzuovbrkla?ggBmugpvbmuzgvl gbmugaklgfvtg.ugkpgesrbugiklbzvzt
msfksza,gvl gakgkpg.zkbmuza:gmugragftgakl,gmugragftg.zkbmuz;g.sbgmugra
wvaarklvbu,groo-lvbszu ,gkzgvgpkkojggVl gfkzuknuz,g.tgmkqgfsimgbmuaugvzu
pzrul amrwagbmvbgbmugovqgvl glvbszvogk.orxvbrklgrfwkaugswklgsa,gakgfsim
ouaagragbmuzugkpgkszgkqlgimkriugvl gnkoslbvztgpzuu kf;gqmuzuvagbmvb
nkoslbvztgor.uzbtgkpgkszagmvaglkgwzk sibrklgfkzugwzkfwbotgvl ;gwzkwuzot
rbagkqlgbmvlgvppuibrklgvl gpzrul amrwjggLkbgbmvbgRgmvnuglkbgrlgftgkql
wuzaklguhwuzrfulbu gvoogbmvbgivlgwkaar.otg.uguhwuibu gkpgbmvbgcrl ,
mvnrlxgmv gbmug.uabgvl gfkabgrl soxulbgpvbmuz,gunulgbkgmraguhbzufugko 
vxu,gbmvbgunuzgqva,gvl gqmkgqvagmrfauopg uaiul u gpzkfgvgpvfrotgpkzgfvlt
xuluzvbrklagpvfksagvl guhufwovztgpkzg.zkbmuzotgiklikz :

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Ubgrwau
ggggggggggggggggggggLkbsagrlgpzvbzuagvlrfrgwvbuzlrj”

ggggg[“Vl gRgftauop,gclkqlgpkzgwvbuzlvogoknugbkqvz gftg.zkbmuzaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK u,grrjg2,g6j]

Qugvzuglkbgmuzugbkg.zrlxgbmugoknugqug.uvzgbkgqkful,gbmksxmgrbg.ugvlgvib
kpgkszgkqlgimkriu,grlbkgikfwvzrakl,glkzgzvlcgrbgqrbmgbmugkbmuzajggBmu
przugkpgbmra,gRgiklpuaa,

ggggggggggggggggggg“Luesugulrfguabg uvgluairvglkabzr
ggggggggggggggggggggEshg soiufgiszragfraiubgvfvzrbruf,”

ggggg[“Lkzgragbmugxk  uaagslclkqlgbkgfugqmkgfrhuagvgaquubg.rbbuzluaa
gggggqrbmgftgoknuj”---Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjg17j]

ragfkzugvibrnu,gfkzuguvxuz,gvl gfkzugamvzw:g.sbgqrbmvo,g‘bragfkzu
wzuirwrbvlb,gpricou,gfknrlx,gvl grliklabvlb;gvgpunuzgas.yuibgbk
rlbuzfraarklagvl gwvzkhtafa,gbmvbgmvagaurdu g.sbgklgklugwvzbgkpgsaj
Qmuzuvagrlgpzrul amrw,g‘bragvgxuluzvogvl gslrnuzavogprzu,g.sbgbufwuzvbu
vl guesvo,gvgiklabvlbguabv.oramu gmuvb,gvoogxulbougvl gafkkbm,gqrbmksb
wkrxlvlitgkzgzksxmluaajggFkzuknuz,grlgoknu,g‘braglkgkbmuzgbmvlgpzvlbri
 uarzugpkzgbmvbgqmrimgporuagpzkfgsa:

gggggggggggggg“Ikfugauxsugovgouwzugrogiviirvbkzu
gggggggggggggggVogpzu  k,gvogivo k,gvoovgfklbvxlv,gvogorbk;
gggggggggggggggLugwrsgo’uabrfvgwkrgbmugwzuavgnu u;
gggggggggggggggUgakog rubzkgvgimrgpsxxugvppzubbvgrogwru u”

ggggg[“Vagbmugmslbuzgwszasuagbmugmvzu,grlgiko gvl gmuvb,gbkgbmugfkslbvrl,
gggggbkgbmugamkzu,glkzgivzuagpkzgrbgpvzbmuzgqmulgmugauuagrbgbvcul,gvl 
gggggklotg uorxmbagrlgimvarlxgbmvbgqmrimgpouuagpzkfgmrfj”--Vzrabk,ghjg7j]

akgakklgvagrbgulbuzagslbkgbmugbuzfagkpgpzrul amrw,gbmvbgragbkgavt,grlbkgv
ikliszzuliugkpg uarzua,grbgnvlramuagvl gragxklu,gpzsrbrklg uabzktagrb,
vagmvnrlxgklotgvgpouamotgul ,gvl gasimgvgklugvagragas.yuibgbkgavbrubtj
Pzrul amrw,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gragulyktu gwzkwkzbrklv.otgvagrbgrag uarzu ;
vl gklotgxzkqagsw,graglkszramu gvl grfwzknu g.tgulyktfulb,gvag.urlxgkp
rbauopgawrzrbsvo,gvl gbmugaksogxzkqrlxgabroogfkzugzuprlu g.tgwzvibriuj
Sl uzgbmragwuzpuibgpzrul amrw,gbmugkbmuzgpouubrlxgvppuibrklagmvnugrlgft
tkslxuzgtuvzagpksl gakfugwoviugrlgfu,gbkgavtglkbmrlxgkpgmrf,gqmkgmrfauop
akgiklpuaauag.sbgbkkgfsimgrlgmragnuzaua;gakgbmvbgRgmv g.kbmgbmuau
wvaarkla,g.sbgvoqvtagak,gbmvbgRgikso gftauopgquoogulksxmg rabrlxsram
bmuf,gvl glunuzgrlgvltg uxzuugkpgikfwvzraklgqrbmgklugvlkbmuz;gbmugprzab
fvrlbvrlrlxgrbagporxmbgrlgakgokpbtgvl gakg.zvnugvgwoviu,gvagqrbmg ra vrl
bkgokkcg kql,gvl gauugbmugkbmuzgpotrlxgvbgvgpvzgmsf.ouzgwrbimg.uokqj

Vagikliuzlrlxgfvzzrvxu,g.uar uagbmvbgrbgragvgiknulvlb,gbmugulbzvliugrlbk
qmrimgklotgragpzuu,g.sbgbmugiklbrlsvliugrlgrbgpkziu gvl gikfwsoakzt,
mvnrlxgvlkbmuzg uwul uliugbmvlgbmvbgkpgkszgkqlgpzuugqroo,gvl gvg.vzxvrl
ikffklotgiklbzvibu gbkgkbmuzgul a,gbmuzugvofkabgvoqvtagmvwwulagvgbmksavl 
rlbzriviruagrlgrbgbkgslzvnuo,gulksxmgbkg.zuvcgbmugbmzuv gvl gbkg rnuzb
bmugiszzulbgkpgvgornuotgvppuibrkl:gqmuzuvagpzrul amrwgmvaglkgfvlluzgkp
.sarluaagkzgbzvpprigqrbmgvsxmbg.sbgrbauopjggFkzuknuz,gbkgavtgbzsbm,gbmu
kz rlvztgbvoulbgkpgqkfulgraglkbgasimgvagragaspprirulbgbkgfvrlbvrlgbmu
iklpuzuliugvl gikffslrivbrklgzuesrzu gbkgbmugaswwkzbgkpgbmragavizu gbru;
lkzg kgbmutgvwwuvzgbkg.ugul su gqrbmgiklabvlitgkpgfrl ,gbkgasabvrlgbmu
wrlimgkpgakgmvz gvl g szv.ougvgclkbjggVl g ks.bouaa,grpgqrbmksbgbmra,
bmuzugikso g.ugasimgvgpzuugvl gnkoslbvztgpvfrorvzrbtgiklbzvibu ,gqmuzu
lkbgklotgbmugaksoagfrxmbgmvnugbmragulbrzugpzsrbrkl,g.sbgbmug.k ruagvoak
frxmbgamvzugrlgbmugvoorvliu,gvl gvgfvlg.ugulxvxu gbmzksxmksb,gbmu
pzrul amrwgqkso giuzbvrlotg.ugfkzugpsoogvl gwuzpuib;g.sbgrbgragqrbmksb
uhvfwougbmvbgbmragauhgmvagunuzgtubgvzzrnu gvbgasimgwuzpuibrkl;gvl ,g.t
bmugikffklgiklaulbgkpgbmugvlirulbgaimkkoa,grbgragqmkootgzuyuibu gpzkfgrbj

BmvbgkbmuzgXzuirvlgoriuliugragysabotgv.mkzzu g.tgkszgfvlluza,gqmrimgvoak,
pzkfgmvnrlx,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgwzvibriu,gvgakgluiuaavztg rawvzrbtgkpgvxu
vl g rppuzuliugkpgkppriuag.ubqrhbgbmugoknuza,gvlaquzu glkgfkzugbkgbmu
wuzpuibgslrklgvl gmvzfkltgbmvbgqugmuzugzuesrzugbmvlgbmugkbmuz:

ggggggggg“Esraguabgulrfgrabugvfkzgvfrirbrvu?giszgluesug upkzfuf
ggggggggggv kouaiulbufgesraesvfgvfvb,gluesugpkzfkasfgauluf?”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmvbgragbmvbgpzrul otgoknu?gqmtg kuaglkgklugoknugvg upkzfu 
gggggtksbmgkzgvgikfuotgko gfvl?”--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grnjg33j]

LurbmuzgqroogbmvbgnuztgwribszugbmvbgbmugViv uftgwzuaulbagkpgrb,gvagR
ikliurnu,giklbzv ribgfu,gqmulgRgavt,gbmvbgbmragprzabgpsztgrlawrzu g.tgbmu
aklgkpgNulsagrlbkgbmugmuvzbgkpgbmugoknuz,gswklgarxmbgkpgbmugpokquzgvl 
wzrfugkpgvgawzrlxrlxgvl g.okaakfrlxgtksbm,gbkgqmrimgbmutgvookqgvoogbmu
rlakoulbgvl gwvaarklvbuguppkzbagbmvbgvlgrffk uzvbugvz kszgivlgwzk siu,
qvagarfwotgpksl u gswklguhbuzlvog.uvsbt,gbmugpvoaugrfvxugkpgikzwkzvo
xuluzvbrkl;gpkzgrbgikso glkbgxzksl gbmragoknugswklgbmugakso,gbmugarxmbgkp
qmrimgvagtubgovtgikliuvou ,gqvag.sbglkqgawzrlxrlx,gvl glkbgkpgfvbszrbtgbk
.okaakf;gbmvbgbmragpszt,grpgrbgaurdu gswklgvgokqgawrzrb,gbmugfuvlag.t
qmrimgrbgwzupuzzu grbagasrbgquzugzrimgwzuaulba,gpvnkszgrlgv nvliufulbgbk
 rxlrbrua,gvl gasimgbzsfwuzt,gqmrimgbmutg.tglkgfuvlagvwwzknu;grpgklgv
fkzugxuluzksagakso,gbmugwszasrbgqvagasrbv.otgxuluzksa,g.tgwmrokakwmrivo
rlabzsibrkla,gwzuiuwbagbkgzunuzugzuorxrkl,gbkgk.utgbmugovqa,gbkg rugpkz
bmugxkk gkpgklu’agikslbzt;g.tguhvfwouagkpgnvoksz,gwzs uliu,gvl gysabriu,
bmugoknuzgabs trlxgbkgzul uzgmrfauopgviiuwbv.oug.tgbmugxzviugvl g.uvsbt
kpgbmugakso,gbmvbgkpgmrag.k tg.urlxgoklxgarliugpv u gvl g uivtu ,gmkwrlx
.tgbmragfulbvogakirubtgbkguabv.oramgvgfkzugprzfgvl govabrlxgiklbzvibj
Qmulgbmragikszbamrwgivfugbkguppuibgrlg sugauvaklg(pkzgbmvbgqmrimgbmutg k
lkbgzuesrzugrlgbmugoknuz,glvfuot,gouraszugvl g raizubrklgrlgmragwszasrb,
bmutgabzribotgzuesrzugrlgbmugwuzaklgoknu ,gpkzvafsimgvagmugragbkgys xugkp
vlgrlbuzlvog.uvsbt,gkpg rpprisobgclkqou xugvl gv.abzsaug raiknuzt),gbmul
bmuzugawzslxgrlgbmugwuzaklgoknu gbmug uarzugkpgvgawrzrbsvogikliuwbrkl;
.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgvgawrzrbsvog.uvsbtjggBmragqvagbmugwzrlirwvo;gbmu
ikzwkzuvo,gvlgviir ulbvogvl gauikl vztgfvbbuz;gesrbugbmugiklbzvztgvagbk
bmugoknuzjggPkzgbmragzuvaklgbmutgwzupuzgbmugwuzaklg.uoknu ,gfvrlbvrlrlx
bmvbgbmugxk agrlgorcugfvlluzgwzupuzzu gmrfgbkk,gvl gnuztgfsimg.ovfugbmu
wkubgVUaimtosagpkzgmvnrlx,grlgbmugoknuagkpgVimroouagvl gWvbzkiosa,gxrnul
bmugoknuz’agwvzbgbkgVimrooua,gqmkgqvagrlgbmugprzabgvl g.uvz ouaagpokquz
kpgmragv kouaiuliu,gvl gbmugmvl akfuabgkpgvoogbmugXzuucajggVpbuzgbmra
xuluzvogikffslrbt,gbmugaknuzurxl,gvl gfkabgqkzbmtgwvzbgwzuar rlxgvl 
xknuzlrlx,gvl gwuzpkzfrlxgrbagwzkwuzgkppriua,gbmutgavt,gbmvbgbmuliugxzuvb
sbrorbtgqvag uzrnu ,g.kbmg.tgwzrnvbugvl gws.origikliuzla;gbmvbgrb
iklabrbsbu gbmugpkziugvl gwkquzgkpgbmugikslbzruagqmuzugrbgwzunvrou ,gvl 
bmugimrupuabgauiszrbtgkpgor.uzbtgvl gysabriujggKpgqmrimgbmugmuvobmtgoknua
kpgMvzfk rsagvl gVzrabkxrbklgvzugrlabvliuajggVl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvb
bmutgivoou grbgavizu gvl g rnrlu,gvl gikliurnugbmvbglkbmrlxg.sbgbmu
nrkouliugkpgbtzvlbagvl gbmug.vauluaagkpgbmugikffklgwukwougvzugrlrfrivogbk
rbjggPrlvoot,gvoogbmvbgivlg.ugavr grlgpvnkszgkpgbmugViv uftgra,gbmvbgrb
qvagvgoknugqmrimgul u grlgpzrul amrw,gqmrimgquoogulksxmgvxzuuagqrbmgbmu
Abkrivog uprlrbrklgkpgoknu:

gggggggggggggg“Vfkzufgiklvbsfguaaugvfrirbrvugpvirul vu
ggggggggggggggguhgwsoimzrbs rlragawuiruj”

ggggg[“Oknugragvg uarzugkpgiklbzvibrlxgpzrul amrwgvzrarlxgpzkfgbmug.uvsbt
gggggkpgbmugk.yuibj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnrjg34j]

Rgzubszlgbkgftgkqlgfkzugysabgvl gbzsug uaizrwbrkl:

gggggggggg“Kflrlkgvfrirbrvu,gikzzk.kzvbragyvfgiklprzfvbraesu,
ggggggggggubgrlxulrra,gubgvubvbr.sa,gys rivl vugaslbj”

ggggg[“Bmkaugvzugklotgbkg.ugzuwsbu gpzrul amrwagbmvbgvzugpkzbrpru gvl 
gggggiklprzfu g.tgys xufulbgvl gbmugoulxbmgkpgbrfuj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugVfrirbj,gijg20j]

Pkzgbmugzuab,gqmvbgqugikffklotgivoogpzrul agvl gpzrul amrwa,gvzuglkbmrlx
.sbgviesvrlbvliugvl gpvfrorvzrbrua,gurbmuzgkiivarklvootgiklbzvibu ,gkz
swklgakfug uarxl,g.tgfuvlagkpgqmrimgbmuzugmvwwulagakfugorbbougrlbuzikszau
.ubqrhbgkszgaksoajgg.sbgrlgbmugpzrul amrwgRgawuvcgkp,gbmutgfrhgvl gqkzc
bmufauonuagrlbkgklugwruiu,gqrbmgakgslrnuzavogvgfrhbszu,gbmvbgbmuzugraglk
fkzugarxlgkpgbmugauvfg.tgqmrimgbmutgquzugprzabgiklykrlu jggRpgvgfvl
amkso grfwkzbslugfugbkgxrnugvgzuvaklgqmtgRgoknu gmrf,gRgprl grbgikso glk
kbmuzqraug.uguhwzuaau ,gbmvlg.tgfvcrlxgvlaquz:g.uivsaugrbgqvagmu,g.uivsau
rbgqvagRjggBmuzugra,g.utkl gvoogbmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkgavt,gRgclkqglkbgqmvb
rluhworiv.ougvl gpvbu gwkquzgbmvbg.zksxmbgklgbmragslrkljggQugaksxmbgklu
vlkbmuzgoklxg.upkzugqugfub,gvl g.tgbmugimvzvibuzagqugmuvz gkpgklu
vlkbmuz,gqmrimgqzksxmbgswklgkszgvppuibrklagfkzugbmvl,grlgzuvakl,gfuzu
zuwkzbagamkso g k;gRgbmrlcg‘bqvag.tgakfugauizubgvwwkrlbfulbgkpgmuvnulj
Quguf.zviu grlgkszglvfua;gvl gvbgkszgprzabgfuubrlx,gqmrimgqva
viir ulbvootgvbgvgxzuvbgirbtgulbuzbvrlfulb,gqugpksl gkszauonuagak
fsbsvootgbvculgqrbmgklugvlkbmuz,gakgviesvrlbu ,gvl gakgul uvzu g.ubqrhb
kszauonua,gbmvbgpzkfgbmuliupkzqvz glkbmrlxgqvagakgluvzgbkgsagvagklu
vlkbmuzjggMugqzkbugvlguhiuooulbgOvbrlgavbrzu,garliugwzrlbu ,gqmuzurlgmu
uhisauagbmugwzuirwrbvbrklgkpgkszgrlbuoorxuliu,gakgas  ulotgikfugbk
wuzpuibrkl,gavtrlx,gbmvbg uabrlu gbkgmvnugakgamkzbgvgiklbrlsvliu,gva
.uxslgakgovbug(pkzgqugquzug.kbmgpsoo-xzkqlgful,gvl gmugakfugtuvzagbmu
ko uz),gbmuzugqvaglkgbrfugbkgokau,glkzgquzugqugbru gbkgiklpkzfgbkgbmu
uhvfwougkpgbmkaugaokqgvl gzuxsovzgpzrul amrwa,gbmvbgzuesrzugakgfvlt
wzuivsbrklagkpgoklxgwzuorfrlvztgiklnuzavbrkl:gBmragmvaglkgkbmuzgr uvgbmvl
bmvbgkpgrbauop,gvl givlgklotgzupuzgbkgrbauop:gbmragraglkgklugawuirvo
iklar uzvbrkl,glkzgbqk,glkzgbmzuu,glkzgpksz,glkzgvgbmksavl ;g‘bragRgclkq
lkbgqmvbgesrlbuaauliugkpgvoogbmragfrhbszu,gqmrim,gaurdrlxgftgqmkougqroo,
ivzzru grbgbkgwoslxugvl gokaugrbauopgrlgmra,gvl gbmvbgmvnrlxgaurdu gmra
qmkougqroo,g.zksxmbgrbg.vicgqrbmguesvogikliszzuliugvl gvwwubrbugbkgwoslxu
vl gokaugrbauopgrlgfrlujggRgfvtgbzsotgavtgokau,gzuauznrlxglkbmrlxgbk
kszauonuagbmvbgqvagurbmuzgmragkzgfrluj--[VoogbmragzuovbuagbkgUabrullug u
ovg.kubruj]

QmulgOvuorsa,--[Iriuzk,g ugVfrirbj,gijgRRj]--rlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmu
Zkfvlgiklasoa,gqmkgvpbuzgbmvtgmv gaulbuliu gBr.uzrsagXzviimsa,gwzkauisbu 
voogbmkaugqmkgmv gmv gvltgpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgmrfgvoak;givfugbkgvacgIvrsa
.okarsa,gqmkgqvagmragimrupuabgpzrul ,gmkqgfsimgmugqkso gmvnug klugpkz
mrf,gvl gbmvbgmugfv ugvlaquz:gg“Voogbmrlxaj”--“Mkq!ggVoogbmrlxa!”ggavr 
Ovuorsajgg“Vl gqmvbgrpgmugmv gikffvl u gtksgbkgprzugkszgbufwoua?”--“Mu
qkso glunuzgmvnugikffvl u gfugbmvb,”gzuworu g.okarsaj--“.sbgqmvbgrpgmu
mv ?”gavr gOvuorsaj--“Rgqkso gmvnugk.utu gmrf,”gavr gbmugkbmuzjggRpgmu
qvagakgwuzpuibgvgpzrul gbkgXzviimsagvagbmugmrabkzruagzuwkzbgmrfgbkgmvnu
.uul,gbmuzugqvagtubglkgluiuaarbtgkpgkppul rlxgbmugiklasoag.tgasimgvg.ko 
iklpuaarkl,gbmksxmgmugfrxmbgabroogmvnugzubvrlu gbmugvaaszvliugmugmv gkp
Xzviimsa’g rawkarbrkljggMkqunuz,gbmkaugqmkgviisaugbmragvlaquzgva
au rbrksa,g kglkbgquoogsl uzabvl gbmugftabuzt;glkzgwzuaswwkau,gvagrbgqva
bzsu,gbmvbgmugmv gXzviimsa’gqroogrlgmragaouunu,g.kbmg.tgbmugwkquzgkpgv
pzrul ,gvl gbmugwuzpuibgclkqou xugmugmv gkpgbmugfvl:gbmutgquzugfkzu
pzrul agbmvlgirbrdula,gfkzugpzrul agbkgklugvlkbmuzgbmvlgurbmuzgulufruagkz
pzrul agbkgbmurzgikslbzt,gkzgbmvlgpzrul agbkgvf.rbrklgvl grllknvbrkl;
mvnrlxgv.akosbuotgxrnulgswgbmufauonuagbkgklugvlkbmuz,gurbmuzgmuo 
v.akosbuotgbmugzurlagkpgbmugkbmuz’agrliorlvbrkl;gvl gaswwkaugvoogbmra
xsr u g.tgnrzbsu,gvl gvoogbmrag.tgbmugikl sibgkpgzuvakl,gqmrimgvoak
qrbmksbgbmuaugrbgmv glkbg.uulgwkaar.ougbkg k,g.okarsa’gvlaquzgqvagasimgva
rbgksxmbgbkg.ujggRpgvltgkpgbmurzgvibrklagpouqgksbgkpgbmugmvl ou,gbmut
quzuglurbmuzg(viikz rlxgbkgftgfuvaszugkpgpzrul amrw)gpzrul agbkgklu
vlkbmuz,glkzgbkgbmufauonuajggVagbkgbmugzuab,gbmragvlaquzgivzzruaglkgqkzau
aksl ,gbmvlgfrlugqkso g kgbkgklugbmvbgamkso gvacgfu:g“Rpgtkszgqroogamkso 
ikffvl gtksgbkgcroogtkszg vsxmbuz,gqkso gtksg kgrb?”gvl gbmvbgRgamkso 
fvcugvlaquz,gbmvbgRgqkso ;gpkzgbmraguhwzuaauaglkgiklaulbgbkgasimgvlgvib,
pkzvafsimgvagRg kglkbgrlgbmugouvabgasawuibgftgkqlgqroo,gvl gvagorbbou
bmvbgkpgasimgvgpzrul jgg‘Braglkbgrlgbmugwkquzgkpgvoogbmuguokesuliugrlgbmu
qkzo ,gbkg rawkaauaagfugkpgbmugiuzbvrlbtgRgmvnugkpgbmugrlbulbrklagvl 
zuakosbrklagkpgftgpzrul ;glvt,glkgklugvibrklgkpgmra,gqmvbgpviugakunuzgrb
frxmbg.uvz,gikso g.ugwzuaulbu gbkgfu,gkpgqmrimgRgikso glkbgwzuaulbot,
vl gvbgprzabgarxmb,gprl gksbgbmugfknrlxgivsaujggKszgaksoagmv g zvqlgak
slvlrfksaotgbkxubmuz,gbmutgmv giklar uzu guvimgkbmuzgqrbmgakgvz ulbgvl
vppuibrkl,gvl gqrbmgbmugorcugvppuibrklgovr gkwulgbmugnuztg.kbbkfgkpgksz
muvzbagbkgklugvlkbmuz’agnruq,gbmvbgRglkbgklotgcluqgmragvagquoogvagftgkql;
.sbgamkso giuzbvrlotgrlgvltgikliuzlgkpgfrlugmvnugbzsabu gftgrlbuzuabgfsim
fkzugqroorlxotgqrbmgmrf,gbmvlgqrbmgftauopj

Oubglkgklu,gbmuzupkzu,gzvlcgkbmuzgikffklgpzrul amrwagqrbmgasimgvgklugva
bmrajggRgmvnugmv gvagfsimguhwuzruliugkpgbmuaugvagvlkbmuz,gvl gkpgbmugfkab
wuzpuibgkpgbmurzgcrl :g.sbgRg kglkbgv nraugbmvbgvltgamkso giklpksl gbmu
zsouagkpgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,gpkzgbmutgqkso gprl gbmufauonuagfsim
 uiurnu jggRlgbmkaugkbmuzgkz rlvztgpzrul amrwa,gtksgvzugbkgqvocgqrbm
.zr ougrlgtkszgmvl ,gqrbmgwzs uliugvl girzisfawuibrkl,gpkzgrlgbmufgbmu
clkbgraglkbgakgaszugbmvbgvgfvlgfvtglkbgmvopgasawuibgrbgqroogaorwjgg“Oknu
mrf,”gavr gImrok,--[VsosagXuoorsa,grjg3j]--“akgvagrpgtksgquzugklug vtgbk
mvbugmrf;gvl gmvbugmrfgakgvagtksgquzugklug vtgbkgoknugmrfj”ggBmra
wzuiuwb,gbmksxmgv.kfrlv.ougrlgbmugaknuzurxlgvl gwuzpuibgpzrul amrwgR
awuvcgkp,graglunuzbmuouaagnuztgaksl gvagbkgbmugwzvibriugkpgbmugkz rlvzt
vl gisabkfvztgklua,gvl gbkgqmrimgbmugavtrlxgbmvbgVzrabkbougmv gak
pzuesulbgrlgmragfksbm,g“Kgftgpzrul a,gbmuzugraglkgpzrul ,”gfvtgnuztgprbot
.ugvwworu jggRlgbmraglk.ougikffuziu,gxkk gkppriua,gwzuaulba,gvl 
.uluprba,g.tgqmrimgkbmuzgpzrul amrwagvzugaswwkzbu gvl gfvrlbvrlu ,g kglkb
 uauznugakgfsimgvagbkg.ugfulbrklu ;gvl gbmugzuvaklgragbmugikliszzuliugkp
kszgqrooa;gpkz,gvagbmugcrl luaagRgmvnugpkzgftauopgzuiurnuaglkgrlizuvau,
pkzgvltbmrlxgRgzuorunugftauopgqrbmvogrlgbrfugkpgluu g(qmvbunuzgbmugAbkria
avt),gvl gvagRg kglkbgprl gftauopgk.orxu gbkgftauopgpkzgvltgauznriugRg k
ftauop:gakgbmugslrklgkpgasimgpzrul a,g.urlxgbzsotgwuzpuib,g uwzrnuagbmuf
kpgvoogr uvgkpgasimg sbrua,gvl gfvcuagbmufgokvbmugvl g.vlramgpzkfgbmurz
iklnuzavbrklgbmuaugqkz agkpg rnrarklgvl g rabrlibrkl,g.uluprba,
k.orxvbrkl,gviclkqou xfulb,gulbzuvbt,gbmvlca,gvl gbmugorcujggVoogbmrlxa,
qrooa,gbmksxmba,gkwrlrkla,gxkk a,gqrnua,gimro zul,gmklksza,gvl gornua,
.urlxgrlguppuibgikffklg.ubqrhbgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgv.akosbugikliszzuliugkp
vppuibrklag.urlxglkgkbmuzgbmvlgklugaksogrlgbqkg.k ruag(viikz rlxgbkgbmvb
nuztgwzkwuzg uprlrbrklgkpgVzrabkbou),gbmutgivlglurbmuzgoul glkzgxrnu
vltbmrlxgbkgklugvlkbmuzjggBmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugovqxrnuza,gbkgmklksz
fvzzrvxugqrbmgakfugzuauf.ovliugkpgbmrag rnrlugvoorvliu,grlbuz ribgvoo
xrpbag.ubqrhbgfvlgvl gqrpu;grlpuzzrlxg.tgbmvb,gbmvbgvoogamkso g.uoklxgbk
uvimgkpgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgbmutgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkg rnr ugkzgbkgxrnugbkguvim
kbmuzj

Rp,grlgbmugpzrul amrwgkpgqmrimgRgawuvc,gklugikso gxrnugbkgbmugkbmuz,gbmu
zuiurnuzgkpgbmug.uluprbgqkso g.ugbmugfvlgbmvbgk.orxu gmragpzrul ;gpkz
uvimgkpgbmufgiklbul rlxgvl gv.knugvoogbmrlxagabs trlxgmkqgbkg.ugsaupsogbk
bmugkbmuz,gmugbmvbgv frlrabuzagbmugkiivarklgragbmugor.uzvogfvl,grlgxrnrlx
mragpzrul gbmugavbrapvibrklgkpg krlxgbmvbgbkqvz agmrfgqmrimgv.knugvoo
bmrlxagmugfkabg uarzuajggQmulgbmugwmrokakwmuzg rkxuluagqvlbu gfklut,gmu
sau gbkgavt,gbmvbgmugzu ufvl u grbgkpgmragpzrul a,glkbgbmvbgmug ufvl u 
rbjggVl gbkgoubgtksgauugbmugwzvibrivogqkzcrlxgkpgbmra,gRgqroogmuzu
wzk siugvlgvlirulbgvl garlxsovzguhvfwoujggUs vfr va,gvgIkzrlbmrvl,gmv 
bqkgpzrul a,gImvzrhulsagvgAritklrvlgvl gVzubusagvgIkzrlbmrvl;gbmragfvl
ikfrlxgbkg ru,g.urlxgwkkz,gvl gmragbqkgpzrul agzrim,gmugfv ugmragqroo
vpbuzgbmragfvlluzjgg“Rg.uesuvbmgbkgVzubusagbmugfvrlbulvliugkpgftgfkbmuz,
bkgaswwkzbgvl gwzknr ugpkzgmuzgrlgmuzgko gvxu;gvl gbkgImvzrhulsagR
.uesuvbmgbmugivzugkpgfvzztrlxgftg vsxmbuz,gvl gbkgxrnugmuzgvagxkk gv
wkzbrklgvagmugragv.ou;gvl grlgivaugklugkpgbmuaugimvliugbkg ru,gRgmuzu.t
as.abrbsbugbmugasznrnkzgrlgmragwoviuj”ggBmutgqmkgprzabgavqgbmragqroogfv u
bmufauonuagnuztgfuzztgvbgbmugiklbulba:g.sbgbmugouxvbuua,g.urlxgfv u
viesvrlbu gqrbmgrb,gviiuwbu grbgqrbmgnuztgxzuvbgiklbulb;gvl gklugkpgbmuf,
Imvzrhulsa,g trlxgqrbmrlgprnug vtagvpbuz,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagbmugimvzxugkp
.kbmg sbruag unkonrlxgakouotgklgmrf,gVzubusaglszbszu gbmugko gqkfvlgqrbm
nuztgxzuvbgivzugvl gbul uzluaa,gvl gkpgprnugbvoulbagmugmv grlguabvbu,gmu
xvnugbqkgvl gvgmvopgrlgfvzzrvxugqrbmgvlgklotg vsxmbuzgmugmv gkpgmragkql,
vl gbqkgvl gvgmvopgrlgfvzzrvxugqrbmgbmug vsxmbuzgkpgUs vfr va,gvl gklgklu
vl gbmugavfug vtgakouflrau g.kbmgbmurzglswbrvoaj

Bmraguhvfwougragnuztgpsoo,grpgklugbmrlxgquzuglkbgbkg.ugk.yuibu ,glvfuot
bmugfsobrbs ugkpgpzrul agpkzgbmugwuzpuibgpzrul amrwgRgawuvcgkpgra
rl rnrar.ou;guvimgklugxrnuagmrfauopgakgulbrzuotgbkgmragpzrul ,gbmvbgmu
mvaglkbmrlxgoupbgbkg rabzr.sbugbkgkbmuza:gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gragakzztgbmvb
mugraglkbg ks.ou,gbzu.ou,gkzgesv zswou,gvl gbmvbgmugmvaglkbgfvltgaksoa
vl gfvltgqrooa,gbkgiklpuzgbmufgvoogswklgbmragklugk.yuibjggIkffkl
pzrul amrwagqroogv frbgkpg rnrarkl;gklugfvtgoknugbmug.uvsbtgkpgbmra
wuzakl,gbmugxkk -msfkszgkpgbmvb,gbmugor.uzvorbtgkpgvgbmrz ,gbmugwvbuzlvo
vppuibrklgkpgvgpkszbm,gbmugpzvbuzlvogoknugkpgvgprpbm,gvl gakgkpgbmugzuab:
.sbgbmragpzrul amrwgbmvbgwkaauaauagbmugqmkougakso,gvl gbmuzugzsouagvl 
aqvtagqrbmgvlgv.akosbugaknuzurxlbt,givllkbgwkaar.otgv frbgkpgvgzrnvoj
Rpgbqkgvbgbmugavfugbrfugamkso givoogbkgtksgpkzgasiiksz,gbkgqmrimgkpgbmuf
qkso gtksgzsl?ggAmkso gbmutgzuesrzugkpgtksgiklbzvztgkppriua,gmkqgikso 
tksgauznugbmufg.kbm?ggAmkso gklugikffrbgvgbmrlxgbkgtkszgarouliugbmvbgrb
quzugkpgrfwkzbvliugbkgbmugkbmuzgbkgclkq,gmkqgqkso gtksg raulxvxu
tkszauop?ggVgslresugvl gwvzbrisovzgpzrul amrwg raakonuagvoogkbmuz
k.orxvbrklagqmvbakunuz:gbmugauizubgRgmvnugaqkzlglkbgbkgzunuvogbkgvlt
kbmuz,gRgfvtgqrbmksbgwuzysztgikffslrivbugbkgmrfgqmkgraglkbgvlkbmuz,g.sb
ftauopjgg‘Bragfrzviougulksxmgiuzbvrlot,gpkzgvgfvlgbkg ks.ougmrfauop,gvl 
bmkaugbmvbgbvocgkpgbzrworlx,gbvocgbmutgclkqglkbgkpgqmvbjggLkbmrlxgra
uhbzufu,gbmvbgmvagrbagorcu;gvl gmugqmkgamvoogaswwkau,gbmvbgkpgbqk,gRgoknu
klugvagfsimgvagbmugkbmuz,gbmvbgbmutgfsbsvootgoknugklugvlkbmuzgbkk,gvl 
oknugfugvagfsimgvagRgoknugbmuf,gfsobrworuagrlbkgvgiklpzvbuzlrbtgbmugfkab
arlxougkpgslrba,gvl gqmuzukp,gfkzuknuz,gklugvoklugragbmugmvz uabgbmrlxgrl
bmugqkzo gbkgprl jggBmugzuabgkpgbmragabkztgasrbagnuztgquoogqrbmgqmvbgR
qvagavtrlx;gpkzgUs vfr va,gvagvg.kslbtgvl gpvnksz,g.uesuvbmagbkgmra
pzrul agvgouxvitgkpgufwoktrlxgbmufauonuagrlgmragluiuaarbt;gmugouvnuagbmuf
murzagbkgbmragor.uzvorbtgkpgmra,gqmrimgiklarabagrlgxrnrlxgbmufgbmu
kwwkzbslrbtgkpgiklpuzzrlxgvg.uluprbgswklgmrf;gvl g ks.bouaa,gbmugpkziugkp
pzrul amrwgragfkzugufrlulbotgvwwvzulbgrlgbmragvibgkpgmra,gbmvlgrlgbmvbgkp
VzubusajggRlgamkzb,gbmuaugvzuguppuibaglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu glkzgikfwzumul u 
.tgasimgvagmvnuglkbguhwuzruliugkpgbmuf,gvl gqmrimgfvcugfugrlprlrbuot
mklkszgvl gv frzugbmugvlaquzgkpgbmvbgtkslxgako ruzgbkgItzsa,g.tgqmkf
.urlxgvacu gmkqgfsimgmugqkso gbvcugpkzgvgmkzau,gqrbmgqmrimgmugmv gqklgbmu
wzrdugkpgvgzviu,gvl gqmubmuzgmugqkso guhimvlxugmrfgpkzgvgcrlx kf?
--“Lk,gbzsot,garz,”gavr gmu,g“.sbgRgqkso gxrnugmrfgqrbmgvoogftgmuvzb,
bkgxubgbmuzu.tgvgbzsugpzrul ,gikso gRgprl gksbgvltgfvlgqkzbmtgkpgbmvb
voorvliuj”--[Hulkwmkl,gItzkwv rv,gnrrrjgg3j]--Mug r glkbgavtgroogrl
avtrlx,g“ikso gRgprl ”:gpkzgbmksxmgklugfvtgvofkabgunuztqmuzugfuubgqrbm
fulgaspprirulbotgesvorpru gpkzgvgaswuzprirvogviesvrlbvliu,gtubgrlgbmra,
qmuzugvgfvlgragbkg uvogpzkfgbmugnuztg.kbbkfgkpgmragmuvzb,gqrbmksbgvlt
fvlluzgkpgzuauznvbrkl,grbgqroog.ugzuesrarbugbmvbgvoogbmugqvz agvl 
awzrlxag.ugbzsotgqzksxmbgvl gwuzpuibotgaszuj

Rlgiklpu uzvbrklagbmvbgmko g.sbg.tgklugul ,gqugvzugklotgbkgwzknr u
vxvrlabgbmugrfwuzpuibrklagbmvbgwvzbrisovzotgikliuzlgbmvbgul jggRbgivlg.u
kpglkgrfwkzbvliugbkgfugkpgqmvbgzuorxrklgftgwmtarirvlgkzgftgovqtuzgra;
bmragiklar uzvbrklgmvaglkbmrlxgrlgikffklgqrbmgbmugkppriuagkpgpzrul amrw
qmrimgbmutgkqugfu;gvl gRgvfgkpgbmugavfugrl rppuzuliugrlgbmug kfuabri
viesvrlbvliugftgauznvlbagfsabgluiuaavzrotgiklbzvibgqrbmgfujggRglunuz
rlesrzu,gqmulgRgvfgbkgbvcugvgpkkbfvl,grpgmug.ugimvabu,g.sbgrpgmug.u
 rorxulb;gvl gvfglkbgakorirbksagrpgftgfsoubuuzg.ugxrnulgbkgxvfrlx,gvagrp
mug.ugabzklxgvl gv.ou;gkzgrpgftgikkcg.ugvgaquvzuz,grpgmug.ugvgxkk gikkcj
Rg kglkbgbvcugswklgfugbkg rzuibgqmvbgkbmuzgfulgamkso g kgrlgbmu
xknuzlfulbgkpgbmurzgpvfrorua,gbmuzugvzugwoulbtgbmvbgfu  ougulksxmgqrbm
bmvb,g.sbgklotgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgftgfubmk grlgftgkql:

gggggggggg“Frmrgarigsasaguab:gbr.r,gsbgkwsaguabgpvibk,gpviuj”

ggggg[“Bmragmvag.uulgftgqvt;gvagpkzgtks,g kgvagtksgprl gluu psoj
ggggg--“Buzuliu,gMuvsbj,grjgRj,g28j]

Pkzgbv.ou-bvoc,gRgwzupuzgbmugwouvavlbgvl gqrbbtg.upkzugbmugouvzlu gvl 
bmugxzvnu;grlg.u ,g.uvsbtg.upkzugxkk luaa;grlgikffklg raikszaugbmugv.ouab
awuvcuz,gqmubmuzgkzglkgbmuzug.ugarliuzrbtgrlgbmugivaujggVl ,gvagmugbmvb
qvagpksl gvabzr ugswklgvgmk..t-mkzau,gwovtrlxgqrbmgmragimro zul,
ulbzuvbu gbmugwuzaklgqmkgmv gaszwzrau gmrfgrlgbmvbgwkabszugbkgavtglkbmrlx
kpgrbgbroogmrfauopgivfugbkg.ugvgpvbmuz,--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgVxuarovsa,
ijgg9j]--aswwkarlxgbmvbgbmugpkl luaagbmvbgqkso gbmulgwkaauaagmragkql
akso,gqkso gzul uzgmrfgvgpvrzuzgys xugkpgasimgvlgvibrkl;gakgR,gvoak,
ikso gqramgbkgawuvcgbkgasimgvagmvnugmv guhwuzruliugkpgqmvbgRgavt:gbmksxm,
clkqrlxgmkqgzufkbugvgbmrlxgasimgvgpzrul amrwgragpzkfgbmugikffklgwzvibriu,
vl gmkqgzvzuotgrbgragbkg.ugpksl ,gRg uawvrzgkpgfuubrlxgqrbmgvltgasim
ys xujggPkzgunulgbmuaug raikszauagoupbgsag.tgvlbresrbtgswklgbmragas.yuib,
auufgbkgfugpovbgvl gwkkz,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugaulaugRgmvnugkpgrb,gvl grl
bmragwvzbrisovz,gbmuguppuibagaszwvaagunulgbmugwzuiuwbagkpgwmrokakwmtj

ggggggggggggggg“Lroguxkgiklbsouzrfgysisl kgavlsagvfrikj”

ggggg[“QmrougRgmvnugaulaugoupbgbkgfu,gbmuzugqrooglunuzg.ugvltbmrlxgfkzu
gggggviiuwbv.ougbkgfugbmvlgvlgvxzuuv.ougpzrul j”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg5,g44j]

BmugvlirulbgFulvl uzg uiovzu gmrfgbkg.ugmvwwtgbmvbgmv gmv gbmugxkk 
pkzbslugbkgfuubgqrbmg.sbgbmugamv kqgkpgvgpzrul :gvl g ks.bouaagmugmv 
xkk gzuvaklgbkgavtgak,guawuirvootgrpgmugawkcug.tguhwuzruliu:gpkzgrlgxkk 
uvzluab,grpgRgikfwvzugvoogbmugzuabgkpgftgorpu,gbmksxm,gbmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,
Rgmvnugwvaau gftgbrfugwouvavlbotgulksxm,gvl gvbgftguvau,gvl gbmugokaagkp
asimgvgpzrul guhiuwbu ,gpzuugpzkfgvltgxzrunksagvpporibrkl,gvl grlgxzuvb
bzvlesroorbtgkpgfrl ,gmvnrlxg.uulgiklbulbu gqrbmgftglvbszvogvl gkzrxrlvo
ikffk rbrua,gqrbmksbg.urlxgakorirbksagvpbuzgkbmuza;grpgRgamkso gikfwvzu
rbgvoo,gRgavt,gqrbmgbmugpkszgtuvzagRgmv gbmugmvwwrluaagbkgulyktgbmugaquub
akirubtgkpgbmraguhiuooulbgfvl,g‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgafkcu,gvlgk.aiszugvl 
bu rksaglrxmbjggPzkfgbmug vtgbmvbgRgokabgmrf:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esuzlgaufwuzgviuz.sf,
gggggggggggggggAufwuzgmklkzvbsfg(ari,g r,gnkosrabra)gmv.u.k,”

ggggg[“Vg vtgpkzgfugunuzgav ,gpkzgunuzgavizu ,gakgmvnugtksgqroou gtu
gggggxk aj”--VUlur ,gnjg49j]

Rgmvnugklotgou gvgovlxsramrlxgorpu;gvl gbmugnuztgwouvaszuagbmvbgwzuaulb
bmufauonuagbkgfu,grlabuv gkpgv frlrabuzrlxgvltbmrlxgkpgiklakovbrkl,
 ks.ougftgvpporibrklgpkzgmragokaajggQugquzugmvonuagbmzksxmksb,gvl gbk
bmvbg uxzuu,gbmvbgfubmrlca,g.tgksbornrlxgmrf,gRg upzvs gmrfgkpgmragwvzbj

gggggggggggggg“Luigpvaguaaugsoovgfugnkoswbvbugmrigpzsr
ggggggggggggggg uizunr,gbvlbrawuzg sfgroougv.uabgfusagwvzbriuwaj”

ggggg[“Rgmvnug ubuzfrlu gbmvbgrbgqrooglunuzg.ugzrxmbgpkzgfugbkgulyktgvlt
gggggwouvaszu,gakgoklxgvagmu,gqrbmgqmkfgRgamvzu gvoogwouvaszuagragvqvtj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gMuvsbj,grjgRjg97j]

Rgqvagakgxzkqlgvl gviisabkfu gbkg.ugvoqvtagmrag ks.ougrlgvoogwoviuagvl 
rlgvoogbmrlxa,gbmvbgfubmrlcagRgvfglkgfkzugbmvlgmvopgkpgftauop:

gggggggggggggg“Roovfgfuvugargwvzbufgvlrfvgbsorb
gggggggggggggggFvbszrkzgnra,gesr gfkzkzgvobuzv?
ggggggggggggggggggggLuigivzsagvuesu,gluigaswuzabua
ggggggggggggggggggggRlbuxuz?ggRooug ruagsbzvfesu
ggggggggggggggg shrbgzsrlvfj”

ggggg[“Rpgbmvbgmvopgkpgftgaksogquzugalvbimgvqvtgpzkfgfug.tgvlgslbrfuot
gggggabzkcu,gqmtgamkso gbmugkbmuzgabvt?ggBmvbgqmrimgzufvrlagqrooglkbg.u
ggggguesvootg uvz,gqrooglkbg.ugqmkou:gbmugavfug vtgqroogrlnkonugbmu
ggggg uabzsibrklgkpg.kbmj”]

gggggkz:

ggggg[“Rpgvgaswuzrkzgpkziugmvagbvculgbmvbgwvzbgkpgftgakso,gqmtg kgR,gbmu
gggggzufvrlrlxgklu,gorlxuzg.umrl ?ggQmvbgragoupbgraglkbgakg uvz,glkzgvl
gggggulbrzugbmrlx:gbmrag vtgmvagqzksxmbgbmug uabzsibrklgkpg.kbmj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK u,grrjg17,g5j]

BmuzugraglkgvibrklgkzgrfvxrlvbrklgkpgfrlugqmuzurlgRg kglkbgfraagmrf;gvagR
clkqgbmvbgmugqkso gmvnugfraau gfu:gpkzgvagmugaszwvaau gfug.tgrlprlrbu
 uxzuuagrlgnrzbsugvl gvoogkbmuzgviikfworamfulba,gakgmugvoakg r grlgbmu
 sbruagkpgpzrul amrw:

gggggggggggggg“Esrag uar uzrkgarbgws kz,gvsbgfk sa
gggggggggggggggBvfgivzrgivwrbra?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgamvfugivlgbmuzu,gkzgfuvaszu,grlgovfulbrlxgakg uvzgvgpzrul ?”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK u,grjg24,gRj]

gggggggggggggg“Kgfrauzkgpzvbuzgv ufwbugfrmr!
gggggggggggggggKflrvgbuisfgslvgwuzruzslbgxvs rvglkabzv,
gggggggggggggggEsvugbssagrlgnrbvg soiragvou.vbgvfkzj
gggggggggggggggBsgfuv,gbsgfkzrulagpzuxrabrgikffk v,gpzvbuz;
gggggggggggggggBuisfgslvgbkbvguabglkabzvgauwsobvgvlrfv
gggggggggggggggIsysaguxkgrlbuzrbsgbkbvg ugfulbmugpsxvnr
gggggggggggggggMvuigabs rv,gvbesugkfluag uorirvagvlrfrj
gggggggggggggggVookesvz?ggvs ruzkglslesvfgbsvgnuz.vgokesulbuf?
gggggggggggggggLslesvfguxkgbu,gnrbvgpzvbuzgvfv.rorkz
gggggggggggggggVawrirvfgwkabmvi;gvbgiuzbugaufwuzgvfv.k;”

ggggg[“Kg.zkbmuz,gbvculgpzkfgfugfrauzv.ou!ggqrbmgbmuu,gvoogkszgyktagmvnu
gggggnvlramu ,gbmkaugyktagqmrim,grlgbmtgorpu,gbmtg uvzgoknuglkszramu j
ggggg trlx,gbmks,gftg.zkbmuz,gmvabg uabzktu gvoogftgmvwwrluaajggFtgqmkou
gggggaksograg.szru gqrbmgbmuujggBmzksxmgqmkaug uvbmgRgmvnug.vlramu gpzkf
gggggftgfrl gbmuaugabs rua,gvl gvoogbmug uorxmbagkpgbmugfrl jggAmvoogR
gggggv  zuaagbmuu?ggRgamvooglunuzgmuvzgbmtgnkriujggLunuzgamvoogRg.umko 
gggggbmuugmuzuvpbuzjggKg.zkbmuz,g uvzuzgbkgfugbmvlgorpujggLksxmbgzufvrla,
ggggg.sbgvaaszu otgRgamvoogunuzgoknugbmuuj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjgg20;gohnj]

.sbgoubgsagmuvzgvg.ktgkpgarhbuulgawuvc:

ggggg--[RlgIkbbkl’agbzvlaovbrklgbmugqkzcgzupuzzu gbkgrag“bmkaugFufkrza
gggggswklgbmugpvfksagu ribgkpgYvlsvzt,”gkpgqmrimgfulbrklgmvagvozuv tg.uul
gggggfv ugrlgbmugwzuaulbgu rbrkljggBmugu rbrklgkpg1580,gmkqunuz,gvl gbmu
gggggNvzrkzsfgu rbrklgkpg1872-1900,grl rivbuglkgwvzbrisovzgqkzc;g.sbgbmu
gggggu rbrklgkpg1580gmvagrbg“bmrag.ktgkpgurxmbuulgtuvza”g(qmrimgqvagbmu
gggggvxugvbgqmrimgOvg.kubrugqzkbugmrag“Auznrbs ugNkoklbvrzu”),gawuvcagkp
ggggg“vg.ktgkpgarhbuul”gvagkiiszzrlxgklotgrlgbmugikffklgu rbrkla,gvl grb
gggggqkso gauufgbkouzv.otgiouvzgbmvbgbmragfkzugrfwkzbvlbgqkzcgqva,grl
gggggpvib,gbmugwzk sibrklgbkgqmrimgFklbvrxlugzupuza,gvl gbmvbgbmugwzkwuz
gggggzuv rlxgkpgbmugbuhbgamkso g.ug“arhbuulgtuvzaj”ggQmvbg“bmrag.kt
gggggawkcu”graglkbgxrnulg.tgFklbvrxlu,gpkzgbmugzuvaklgabvbu grlgbmugluhb
gggggpkookqrlxgwvzvxzvwmj]

“.uivsaugRgmvnugpksl gbmvbgbmvbgqkzcgmvag.uulgarliug.zksxmbgksb,gvl gqrbm
vgfraimrunksag uarxl,g.tgbmkaugqmkgvrfgvbg rabsz.rlxgvl gimvlxrlxgbmu
ikl rbrklgkpgkszgxknuzlfulb,gqrbmksbgbzks.orlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmrlc
qmubmuzgbmutgvzugorcuotgbkgrfwzknugrb:gvl g.uivsaugbmutgmvnugfrhu gswgmra
qkzcgqrbmgakfugkpgbmurzgkqlgwuzpkzfvliu,gRgmvnugzupzvrlu gpzkfgrlauzbrlx
rbgmuzujgg.sbgbmvbgbmugfufkztgkpgbmugvsbmkzgfvtglkbg.ugrlyszu ,glkz
asppuzgqrbmgasimgvagikso glkbgikfugluvz-mvl gbkg.ugviesvrlbu gqrbmgmra
wzrlirwoua,gRgmuzugxrnugbmufgbkgsl uzabvl ,gbmvbgrbgqvagqzrbbulg.tgmrfgrl
mrag.ktmkk ,gvl gbmvbg.tgqvtgkpguhuziraugklot,gvagvgikffklgbmufugbmvbgmva
.uulgmviclutu g.tgvgbmksavl gqzrbuzajggRgfvcuglkgesuabrklg.sbgbmvbgmu
mrfauopg.uorunu gqmvbgmugqzkbu,g.urlxgakgiklairulbrksagbmvbgmugqkso glkb
akgfsimgvagorugrlgyuab:gvl gRgfkzuknuzgclkq,gbmvbgikso grbgmvnug.uulgrl
mragkqlgimkriu,gmugmv gzvbmuzgmvnug.uulg.kzlgvbgNulriu,gbmvlgvbgAvzovi;
vl gqrbmgzuvakljgg.sbgmugmv gvlkbmuzgfvhrfgaknuzurxlbtgrfwzrlbu grlgmra
akso,gnuztgzuorxrksaotgbkgk.utgvl gas.frbgbkgbmugovqagsl uzgqmrimgmugqva
.kzljggBmuzuglunuzgqvagvg.ubbuzgirbrdul,gfkzugvppuibrklvbugbkgmra
ikslbzt;glkzgvgxzuvbuzguluftgbkgvoogbmugikffkbrklagvl grllknvbrklagkpgmra
brfu:gakgbmvbgmugqkso gfsimgzvbmuzgmvnugufwoktu gmragbvoulbgbkgbmu
uhbrlxsramrlxgkpgbmkaugirnrogpovfua,gbmvlgmvnugv  u gvltgpsuogbkgbmuf;
mugmv gvgfrl gpvamrklu gbkgbmugfk uogkpg.ubbuzgvxuajggLkq,grlguhimvlxugkp
bmragauzrksagwruiu,gRgqroogwzuaulbgtksgqrbmgvlkbmuzgkpgvgfkzugxvtgvl 
pzkorigvrz,gpzkfgbmugavfugmvl ,gvl gqzrbbulgvbgbmugavfugvxuj”




IMVWBUZgHHNRRRj

LRLUgVL gBQULBTgAKLLUBAgKPgUABRULLUg UgOVg.KRBRU

BKgFV VFUg UgXZVFFKLB,gIKFBUAAUg UgXSRAAULj

ggggg[Bmutgaivziugiklbvrlgvltbmrlxg.sbgvfkzksagikfwovrlba,guhwzuaau grlgv
gggggnuztgzksxmgabtou,g raiknuzrlxgbmugpkooruagvl gksbzvxuagkpgvgzuabouaa
gggggwvaarkl,gknuzxkzxu ,gvagrbgquzu,gqrbmgyuvoksarua,gpuvzagvl 
gggggasawrirklaj--Ikabuj]

ggggg[Bmuaujjjjiklbvrlu grlgbmugu rbrklgkpg1588glrlu-vl -bqulbtgaklluba
gggggkpgOvg.kubru,gviikfwvlru g.tgvg u rivbkztguwrabougbkgFv vfug u
gggggXzvffklbjggBmugpkzfuz,gqmrimgvzugzupuzzu gbkgvbgbmugul gkpgImvwj
gggggHHNRO,g kglkbgzuvootg.uoklxgbkgbmug.kkc,gvl gvzugkpgnuztgaorxmb
gggggrlbuzuabgvbgbmragbrfu;gbmuguwrabougragbzvlapuzzu gbkgbmu
gggggIkzzuawkl uliujggBmugaklluba,gqrbmgbmugoubbuz,gquzugwzuasfv.otgaulb
gggggakfugbrfugvpbuzgOubbuzagNjgubgauejggFklbvrxlugauufagbkgmvnugmv 
gggggaunuzvogikwruagqzrbbulgksbgbkgpkzqvz gbkgpzrul agkzgviesvrlbvliuaj]




IMVWBUZgHHRHj

KPgFK UZVBRKL

Vagrpgqugmv gvlgrlpuibrksagbksim,gqu,g.tgkszgfvlluzgkpgmvl orlx,gikzzswb
bmrlxagbmvbgrlgbmufauonuagvzugovs v.ougvl gxkk :gqugfvtgxzvawgnrzbsugak
bmvbgrbg.uikfuagnrirksa,grpgquguf.zviugrbgbkkgabzrlxulbotgvl gqrbmgbkk
nrkoulbgvg uarzujggBmkaugqmkgavt,gbmuzugraglunuzgvltguhiuaagrlgnrzbsu,
pkzvafsimgvagrbgraglkbgnrzbsugqmulgrbgkliug.uikfuaguhiuaa,gklotgwovtgswkl
qkz a:

gggggggggggggg“Rlavlrgavwrulaglkfulgpuzvb,gvuessagrlresr,
gggggggggggggggSobzvgesvfgavbraguab,gnrzbsbufgargwubvbgrwavfj”

ggggg[“Oubgbmugqraugfvlg.uvzgbmuglvfugkpgvgfv fvl,gbmugysabgklugkpgvl
gggggslysab,grpgmugauucgqra kfgfkzugbmvlgragaspprirulbj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg6,g15j]

ggggg[“Bmugqraugfvlgraglkgoklxuzgqrau,gbmugysabgfvlglkgoklxuzgysab,grpgmu
gggggauucgbkgivzztgmragoknugpkzgqra kfgkzgnrzbsug.utkl gbmvbgqmrimgra
gggggluiuaavztj”]

Bmragragvgas.bougiklar uzvbrklgkpgwmrokakwmtjggVgfvlgfvtg.kbmg.ugbkkgfsim
rlgoknugqrbmgnrzbsu,gvl g.uguhiuaarnugrlgvgysabgvibrkljggMkotgQzrbgvxzuua
qrbmgbmra,g.uglkbgqrauzgbmvlgtksgamkso ,g.sbg.ugak.uzotgqrauj--[Abj
Wvso,gUwrabougbkgbmugZkfvla,ghrrjg3j]--Rgmvnugclkqlgvgxzuvbgfvl,

ggggg--[“RbgragorcuotgbmvbgFklbvrxlugfuvlbgMulztgRRRj,gcrlxgkpgPzvliuj
gggggBmugIvz rlvog ’Kaavb,gqzrbrlxgbkgOksrau,gbmugesuul- kqvxuz,gbko 
gggggmuz,grlgmragpzvlcgfvlluz,gbmvbgmugmv gornu gvagfsimgkzgfkzugorcugv
gggggfklcgbmvlgvgfklvzimg(OubbuzgHHRRRj)gVl gWkwugAuhbsagNj,gawuvcrlxgkp
gggggbmvbgwzrliugklug vtgbkgbmugIvz rlvog ugYktusau,gwzkbuibkzgkpgbmu
gggggvppvrzagkpgPzvliu,gavr gbkgmrfgwouvavlbot,g‘Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvb
gggggtkszgcrlxgmvbmglkbg klu,gvl g kuaglkbg kgakgabroo,gbkg.ugvgfklc,glkz
gggggvltbmrlxgbmvbgRgmvnuglkbg klu,glkbgbkg.ugvgfklcj’”--Ikabuj]

wzuys riugbmugkwrlrklgfulgmv gkpgmrag unkbrkl,g.tgwzubul rlxgbkg.ug unksb
.utkl gvooguhvfwouagkpgkbmuzagkpgmragikl rbrkljggRgoknugbufwuzvbugvl 
fk uzvbuglvbszuajggVlgrffk uzvbugduvo,gunulgbkgbmvbgqmrimgragxkk ,gunul
bmksxmgrbg kuaglkbgkppul ,gvabklramuagfu,gvl gwsbagfugbkgabs tgqmvbglvfu
bkgxrnugrbjggLurbmuzgbmugfkbmuzgkpgWvsavlrva,

ggggg--[“Fklbvrxlugqkso gmuzugxrnugsagbkgsl uzabvl ,gswklgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkp
ggggg rk kzsagArisosa,gbmvbgWvsavlrva’gfkbmuzgxvnugbmugprzabgmrlbgkpgbmu
gggggwslramfulbgbmvbgqvagbkg.ugrlporibu gklgmuzgakljgg‘Wvsavlrva,’gavta
gggggbmragmrabkzrvl,g‘wuziurnrlxgbmvbgbmuguwmkzr,gvl gakfugkbmuz
gggggOviu kufklrvla,gvrfu gvbgvwwzumul rlxgmrf,gxkbgbmugabvzbgkpgbmuf,
gggggvl gqulbgvl gbkkcgavlibsvztgfgFrluznv’agbufwou:gvl gbmu
gggggOviu vufklrvla,g.urlxg ks.bpsogqmubmuzgbmutgksxmbgbkgbvcugmrfgpzkf
gggggbmuliugrlgnrkovbrklgkpgbmugpzvlimraugbmuzu,grbgragavr gbmvbgmragkql
gggggfkbmuzgivfugmuzauopgbkgbmugbufwoug.sbgawkcuglkbmrlxglkzg r gvltbmrlx
gggggfkzugbmvlgovtgvgwruiugkpg.zric,gqmrimgamug.zksxmbgqrbmgmuz,gklgbmu
gggggbmzuamko gkpgbmugbufwou,gqmrim,gqmulgamugmv g klu,gamugzubszlu 
gggggmkfujggBmugOviu vufklrvla,gbvcrlxgbmugmrlbgpzkfgbmugfkbmuz,givsau 
gggggbmugxvbugkpgbmugbufwougbkg.ugqvoou gsw,gvl g.tgbmragfuvlagabvznu 
gggggWvsavlrva,gakgbmvbgmug ru gqrbmgmslxuz,g&ijg(or.jghrjgivwjg10j,gkp
gggggVftkb’agbzvlaovbrkl)jggBmuglvfugkpgWvsavlrva’gfkbmuzgqvagVoirbmuv,
gggggvagqugvzugrlpkzfu g.tgBmsit r ua’gaimkorvab,gqmkgklotgavtagbmvbgrb
gggggqvagzuwkzbu ,gbmvbgqmulgbmutgaubgv.ksbgqvoorlxgswgbmugxvbuagkpgbmu
gggggimvwuogrlgqmrimgWvsavlrvagmv gbvculgzupsxu,gmragfkbmuzgVoirbmuvgovr 
gggggbmugprzabgabkluj”--Ikabuj]

qmkgqvagbmugprzabgrlabzsibkzgkpgmuzgakl’agwzkiuaa,gvl gbmzuqgbmugprzab
abklugbkqvz agmrag uvbm,glkzgWkabmsfrsagbmug ribvbkz,gqmkgwsbgmragaklgbk
 uvbm,gqmkfgbmugvz kszgkpgtksbmgmv gasiiuaapsootgwsamu gswklgbmuguluftgv
orbbougfkzugv nvliu gbmvlgbmugzuabgkpgmragaesv zkl,g kgvwwuvzgbkgfugak
fsimgysabgvagabzvlxu;gvl gRgamkso glurbmuzgv nrauglkzgorcugbkgpkookqgak
avnvxugvgnrzbsu,gvl gbmvbgikabagakg uvzj

ggggg--[“Kwrlrklag rppuzgvagbkgbmugbzsbmgkpgbmragpvibjggOrntgbmrlcagmu
gggggmvagxkk gvsbmkzrbtgpkzgzuyuibrlxgrbg.uivsaugrbg kuaglkbgvwwuvzgrl
gggggmrabkztgbmvbgWkabmsfrksagqvag.zvl u gqrbmgrb,gvagBrbsagFvlorsagqva,
gggggv.ksbg100gtuvzagvpbuzgmragbrfu;gpkzgFvlorsa,gmvnrlxgwsbgmragaklgbk
ggggg uvbmgpkzgbmugorcugivsau,gk.bvrlu gbmugk rksaglvfugkpgRfwuzrkasa,
gggggvl garliugbmvbgbrfugFvlorvlvgrfwuzrvgmvag.uulgsau gvagvgbuzfgbk
gggggarxlrptgkz uzagbmvbgvzugbkkgaunuzu;gFvlorvlvgRfwuzrv,gavtagOrnt,
gggggquzuglkbgklotgmkzzr.ougpkzgbmugbrfugwzuaulb,g.sbgkpgvg.v guhvfwougbk
gggggwkabuzrbtjggVl gbmragmrabkzrvlgfvcuaglkg ks.bg.sbgasimgikffvl a
gggggqkso gmvnug.uulgvibsvootgabtou gWkabmsfrvlvgRfwuzrv,grpgWkabmsfrsa
gggggmv g.uulgbmugprzabgqmkgaubgakg.vz.vzksagvlguhvfwoug(Ornt,gor.jgrnj
gggggivwjg29,gvl gor.jgnrrrjgivwjg7)jgg.sb,gmkqunuz,gFklbvrxlugmvagNvouzj
gggggFvhrfsagklgmragar u,gqmkgavtaguhwzuaaot,gbmvbgWkabmsfrsagivsau gmra
gggggaklgbkg.ugwsbgbkg uvbm,gvl g rk kzsagkpgArirotg(or.jgghrrjggivwj
ggggg19)j”--Ikabuj]

Bmugvzimuzgbmvbgamkkbagknuz,gfraauagvagfsimgvagmugbmvbgpvooagamkzb,gvl 
‘braguesvootgbzks.ouakfugbkgftgarxmb,gbkgokkcgswgvbgvgxzuvbgorxmb,gvl 
bkgokkcg kqlgrlbkgvg vzcgv.taajggIvooriouagrlgWovbkgavta,gbmvbgbmu
uhbzufrbtgkpgwmrokakwmtgragmszbpso,gvl gv nrauaglkbgbkg rnugrlbkgrb
.utkl gbmugorfrbagkpgwzkprb;gbmvb,gbvculgfk uzvbuot,grbgragwouvavlbgvl 
saupso;g.sbgbmvbgrlgbmugul grbgzul uzagvgfvlg.zsbramgvl gnrirksa,gv
iklbufluzgkpgzuorxrklgvl gbmugikffklgovqa,gvlguluftgbkgirnro
iklnuzavbrkl,gvl gvoogmsfvlgwouvaszua,grlivwv.ougkpgvoogws.ori
v frlrabzvbrkl,gslprbgurbmuzgbkgvaarabgkbmuzagkzgbkgzuorunugmrfauop,gvl 
vgprbgk.yuibgpkzgvoogakzbagkpgrlyszruagvl gvppzklbajggMugavtagbzsu;gpkz
rlgrbaguhiuaa,grbgulaovnuagkszglvbszvogpzuu kf,gvl g.tgvlgrfwuzbrlulb
as.boubt,gouv agsagksbgkpgbmugpvrzgvl g.uvbulgqvtgbmvbglvbszugmvagbzviu 
pkzgsaj

Bmugoknugqug.uvzgbkgkszgqrnuagragnuztgovqpso,gvl gtubgbmukokxtgbmrlcagprb
bkgisz.gvl gzuabzvrlgrbjggVagRgzufuf.uz,gRgmvnugzuv grlgklugwoviugkpgAbj
BmkfvagVesrlva,--[Auisl vgAuisl h,gEsvuabjg154,gvzbjg9j]--qmuzugmu
ikl uflagfvzzrvxuagqrbmrlgvltgkpgbmugpkz.r  ulg uxzuua,gpkzgbmragzuvakl,
vfklxabgkbmuza,gbmvbgbmuzugragakfug vlxuz,gouabgbmugpzrul amrwgvgfvl
.uvzagbkgasimgvgqkfvl,gamkso g.ugrffk uzvbu;gpkzgrpgbmugiklysxvo
vppuibrklg.ugpsoogvl gwuzpuibg.ubqrhbgbmuf,gvagrbgksxmbgbkg.u,gvl gbmvb
rbg.ugknuzgvl gv.knugaszimvzxu gqrbmgbmvbgkpgcrl zu gbkk,gbmuzugraglk
 ks.b,g.sbgasimgvlgv  rbrklgqroogivzztgbmugmsa.vl g.utkl gbmug.ksl agkp
zuvaklj

Bmkaugairuliuagbmvbgzuxsovbugbmugfvlluzagkpgful,g rnrlrbtgvl gwmrokakwmt,
qroogmvnugbmurzgavtgrlgunuztbmrlx;gbmuzugraglkgvibrklgakgwzrnvbugvl 
auizubgbmvbgivlguaivwugbmurzgrlawuibrklgvl gyszra ribrkljggBmutgvzug.uab
bvsxmbgqmkgvzug.uabgv.ougbkgiklbzkogvl gisz.gbmurzgkqlgor.uzbt;gqkful
uhwkaugbmurzgls rbruagvagfsimgvagtksgqroogswklgbmugviikslbgkpgwouvaszu,
bmksxmgrlgbmugluiuaarbruagkpgwmtarigbmutgvzugvobkxubmuzgvagamtjggRgqroo,
bmuzupkzu,grlgbmurzg.umvop:

ggggg--[Ikabugbzvlaovbuagbmra:g“klgbmugwvzbgkpgwmrokakwmtgvl gbmukokxt,”
ggggggk.auznrlxgbmvbg.sbgpuqgqrnuagqkso gbmrlcgbmufauonuagk.orxu gbk
gggggFklbvrxlugpkzgvltgasimgouaaklgbkgbmurzgmsa.vl aj]--

buvimgbmugmsa.vl a,gbmvbgra,gasimgvagvzugbkkgnumufulbgrlgbmuguhuziraugkp
bmugfvbzrfklrvog sbt--rpgasimgbmuzugabroog.u--bmragouaakl,gbmvbgbmugnuzt
wouvaszuagbmutgulyktgrlgbmugakirubtgkpgbmurzgqrnuagvzugzuwzkvimv.ougrp
rffk uzvbu,gvl gbmvbgvgoriulbrksagvl gzrkbksagv.saugkpgbmufgragvgpvsobgva
zuwzknv.ougmuzugvagrlgroorirbgiklluibrklajggBmkaugrffk uabgvl g u.vsimu 
bzricagvl gwkabszua,gbmvbgbmugprzabgvz kszgasxxuabagbkgsagrlgbmragvppvrz,
vzuglkbgklotgrl uiulbotg.sbg ubzrfulbvootgwzvibrau gswklgkszgqrnuajggOub
bmufgvbgouvabgouvzlgrfws uliugpzkfgvlkbmuzgmvl ;gbmutgvzugunuzgzuv t
ulksxmgpkzgkszg.sarluaa,gvl gRgpkzgftgwvzbgvoqvtagqulbgbmugwovrlgqvtgbk
qkzcj

Fvzzrvxugragvgakouflgvl gzuorxrksagbru,gvl gbmuzupkzugbmugwouvaszugqu
uhbzvibgpzkfgrbgamkso g.ugvgak.uzgvl gauzrksag uorxmb,gvl gfrhu gqrbmgv
iuzbvrlgcrl gkpgxzvnrbt;grbgamkso g.ugvgakzbgkpg raizuubgvl 
iklairulbrksagwouvaszujggVl gauurlxgbmvbgbmugimrupgul gkpgrbgra
xuluzvbrkl,gakfugfvcugvgesuabrkl,gqmubmuzgqmulgfulgvzugksbgkpgmkwuagva
qmulgbmutgvzugaswuzvllsvbu gkzgvozuv tgqrbmgimro ,grbg.ugovqpsogbk
uf.zviugkszgqrnuajgg‘Bragmkfrir u,gviikz rlxgbkgWovbkj--[Ovqa,g8j]--
Iuzbvrlglvbrklag(bmugFkmvffu vl,gvfklxabgkbmuza)gv.kfrlvbugvoogiklyslibrkl
qrbmgqkfulgqrbmgimro ,gkbmuzagvoak,gqrbmgbmkaugqmkgvzugrlgbmurzgikszauaj
Dulk.rvgqkso glunuzgv frbgmuzgmsa.vl gpkzgfkzugbmvlgklugulikslbuz,gvpbuz
qmrimgamugoupbgmrfgbkgmragkqlgaqrlxgpkzgbmugqmkougbrfugkpgmuzgikliuwbrkl,
vl glkbgbroogvpbuzgbmvbgqkso gvxvrlgzuiurnugmrf:--[Bzu.uoorsagWkoork,
BzrxrlbvgBtzvlj,gijg30j]--vg.zvnugvl gxuluzksaguhvfwougkpgiklysxvo
iklbrluliujggRbgqvag ks.bouaagpzkfgakfugovairnrksagwkub,--[Bmugovairnrksa
wkubgragMkfuz;gauugmragRorv ,ghrnjgg294j]--vl gklugbmvbgmrfauopgqvagrl
xzuvbg rabzuaagpkzgvgorbbougkpgbmragawkzb,gbmvbgWovbkg.kzzkqu gbmra
abkzt;gbmvbgYswrbuzgqvagklug vtgakgmkbgswklgmragqrpu,gbmvbglkbgmvnrlxgak
fsimgwvbruliugvagbroogamugikso gxubgbkgbmugiksim,gmugbmzuqgmuzgswklgbmu
pokkz,gqmuzugbmugnumufuliugkpgwouvaszugfv ugmrfgpkzxubgbmugxzuvbgvl 
rfwkzbvlbgzuakosbrklagmugmv g.sbgluqotgbvculgqrbmgbmugzuabgkpgbmugxk agrl
mragiuouabrvogiksliro,gvl gbkg.zvxgbmvbgmugmv gmv gvagxkk gvg.ksb,gva
qmulgmugxkbgmuzgfvr ulmuv ,gslclkqlgbkgbmurzgwvzulbaj

BmugcrlxagkpgWuzarvgquzugqklbgbkgrlnrbugbmurzgqrnuagbkgbmug.uxrllrlxgkp
bmurzgpuabrnvoa;g.sbgqmulgbmugqrlug.uxvlgbkgqkzcgrlgxkk guvzluab,gvl 
bmvbgbmutgquzugbkgxrnugbmugzurlagbkgwouvaszu,gbmutgaulbgbmufg.vicgbk
bmurzgwzrnvbugvwvzbfulba,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkbgwvzbrirwvbugrlgbmurz
rffk uzvbugosab,gaul rlxgpkzgkbmuzgqkfulgrlgbmurzgabuv ,gqrbmgqmkfgbmut
quzuglkbgk.orxu gbkgakgxzuvbgvg uikzsfgkpgzuawuibj--[Wosbvzim,gWzuiuwba
kpgFvzzrvxu,gijgg14j]--Voogwouvaszuagvl gvoogakzbagkpgxzvbrprivbrkla
vzuglkbgwzkwuzotgvl gprbotgiklpuzzu gswklgvoogakzbagkpgwuzaklaj
Uwvfrlkl vagmv gikffrbbu gbkgwzraklgvgtkslxgfvlgpkzgiuzbvrlg u.vsimua;
pkzgqmkfgWuokwr vagfu rvbu ,gbmvbgvbgmragzuesuabgmugfrxmbg.ugaubgvb
or.uzbt,gqmrimgUwvfrlkl vag ulru gbkgmrf,g.sbgxzvlbu grbgvbgbmugprzab
qkz gbkgvgqulimgkpgmra,gbmvbgfv ugbmugavfugrlbuziuaarkl;gavtrlx,gbmvbgrb
qvagvgxzvbrprivbrklgprbgpkzgasimgvgklugvagamu,g.sbglkbgpkzgvgivwbvrlj
Akwmkiouag.urlxgykrlbgwzvubkzgqrbmgWuzrioua,gauurlxgviir ulbvootgvgprlu
.ktgwvaag.t:g“Kgqmvbgvgimvzfrlxg.ktgragbmvb!”gavr gmujgg“Bmvbgfrxmbg.u
nuztgquoo,”gvlaquzu gWuzrioua,g“pkzgvltgkbmuzgbmvlgvgwzvubkz,gqmkgksxmb
lkbgklotgbkgmvnugmragmvl a,g.sbgmragutua,gbkk,gimvabuj”--[Iriuzk,g u
Kpprij,grjg40j]ggVUorsagNuzsa,gbmugufwuzkz,gvlaquzu gmragqrpu,gqmk
zuwzkvimu gmrfgqrbmgmragoknugbkgkbmuzgqkful,gbmvbgmug r grbgswklgv
iklairulbrksagviikslb,gpkzvafsimgvagfvzzrvxugqvagvglvfugkpgmklkszgvl 
 rxlrbt,glkbgkpgqvlbklgvl govairnrksag uarzu;gvl gkszguiiouarvabrivo
mrabkztgwzuauznuagbmugfufkztgkpgbmvbgqkfvlgrlgxzuvbgnuluzvbrkl,gqmk
wvzbu gpzkfgmuzgmsa.vl g.uivsaugamugqkso glkbgikfwotgqrbmgmragrl uiulb
vl grlkz rlvbug uarzuajggRlgprlu,gbmuzugraglkgwouvaszugakgysabgvl 
ovqpso,gqmuzugrlbufwuzvliugvl guhiuaagvzuglkbgbkg.ugikl uflu j

.sb,gbkgawuvcgbmugbzsbm,graglkbgfvlgvgfkabgfrauzv.ougizuvbszugbmugqmrou?
Rbgragaivziu,g.tgmraglvbszvogikl rbrkl,grlgmragwkquzgbkgbvabugklu
wouvaszugwszugvl gulbrzu;gvl gtubgfsabgmug.ugiklbzrnrlxg kibzrluagvl 
wzuiuwbagbkgiszbvrogbmvbgorbbougmugmva;gmugraglkbgtubgqzubimu gulksxm,
slouaag.tgvzbgvl gabs tgmugvsxfulbgmragkqlgfrauzt:

ggggggggggggggg“Pkzbslvugfrauzvagvshrfsagvzbugnrvaj”

ggggg[“Qugvzbrprirvootgvsxfulbgbmugqzubimu luaagkpgpkzbsluj”
gggggg--Wzkwuzrbrsa,gor.jgrrrjg7,g44j]

Msfvlgqra kfgfvcuagvagroogsaugkpgmuzgbvoulb,gqmulgamuguhuzirauagrbgrl
zuairl rlxgpzkfgbmuglsf.uzgvl gaquubluaagkpgbmkaugwouvaszuagbmvbgvzu
lvbszvootgkszg su,gvagamugufwoktagrbgpvnkszv.otgvl gquoogrlgvzbrprirvoot
 raxsrarlxgvl gbzricrlxgksbgbmugrooagkpgorpu,gbkgvoounrvbugbmugaulaugkp
bmufjggMv gRgzsou gbmugzkvab,gRgamkso gmvnugbvculgvlkbmuzgvl gfkzu
lvbszvogikszau,gqmrim,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,grag.kbmgikffk rksagvl gmkot,gvl 
amkso ,gwuzv nulbszu,gmvnug.uulgv.ougbkgmvnugorfrbu grbgbkk;
lkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmvbg.kbmgkszgawrzrbsvogvl gikzwkzvogwmtarirvla,gvag.t
ikfwvibg.ubqrhbgbmufauonua,givlgprl glkgkbmuzgqvtgbkgiszu,glkzgkbmuz
zufu tgpkzgbmugrlprzfrbruagkpgbmug.k tgvl gbmugakso,gbmvlg.tgfrauztgvl 
wvrljggBkgbmragul ,gqvbimrlxa,gpvabrlxa,gmvrz-amrzba,gzufkbugvl gakorbvzt
.vlramfulba,gwuzwubsvogrfwzraklfulba,gqmrwagvl gkbmuzgvpporibrkla,gmvnu
.uulgrlbzk siu gvfklxabgful:g.sbgak,gbmvbgbmutgamkso givzztgvgabrlxgqrbm
bmuf,gvl g.ugzuvogvpporibrklagrl uu ;gvl glkbgpvoogksbgvagrbgkliug r gbk
klugXvoork,gqmkgmvnrlxg.uulgaulbgvlguhrougrlbkgbmugraougkpgOua.ka,gluqa
qvaglkbgoklxgvpbuzg.zksxmbgbkgZkfu,gbmvbgmugbmuzugornu gvagfuzztgvagbmu
 vtgqvagoklx;gvl gbmvbgqmvbgmv g.uulgulykrlu gmrfgpkzgvgwulvliu,gbszlu 
bkgmragwouvaszugvl gavbrapvibrkl:gqmuzuswklgbmugAulvbugbmksxmbgprbgbk
zuivoogmrfgmkfugbkgmragqrpugvl gpvfrot,gvl giklprlugmrfgbkgmragkqlgmksau,
bkgviikffk vbugbmurzgwslramfulbgbkgmragpuuorlxgvl gvwwzumularkljggPkzgbk
mrfgqmkfgpvabrlxgqkso gfvcugfkzugmuvobmpsogvl gfkzugawzrxmbot,gvl gbkgmrf
bkgqmkaugwvovbugpramgquzugfkzugviiuwbv.ougbmvlgpouam,gbmugwzuaizrwbrklgkp
bmuaugqkso gmvnuglkgiszvbrnuguppuib;glkgfkzugbmvlgrlgbmugkbmuzgakzbgkp
wmtari,gqmuzug zsxagmvnuglkguppuibgswklgmrfgqmkgaqvookqagbmufgqrbm
vwwubrbugvl gwouvaszu:gbmug.rbbuzluaagkpgbmugwkbrklgvl gbmugv.mkzzuliugkp
bmugwvbrulbgvzugluiuaavztgirzisfabvliuagbkgbmugkwuzvbrkljggBmuglvbszu
bmvbgqkso guvbgzms.vz.gorcug.sbbuzu gbszlrwa,gqkso gpzsabzvbugbmugsaugvl 
nrzbsugkpgrb;grbgfsabg.ugakfubmrlxgbkgbzks.ougvl g rabsz.gbmugabkfvim,
bmvbgfsabgwszxugvl giszugrb;gvl gmuzugbmugikffklgzsou,gbmvbgbmrlxagvzu
iszu g.tgbmurzgiklbzvzrua,gpvroa;gpkzgrlgbmragklugroogragiszu g.t
vlkbmuzj

Bmrag.uorupgvgorbbougzuauf.ouagbmvbgkbmuzgakgvlirulbgklu,gkpgbmrlcrlxgbk
xzvbrptgbmugxk agvl glvbszug.tgfvaavizugvl gfsz uz:gvlgkwrlrkl
slrnuzavootgkliugzuiurnu grlgvoogzuorxrklajggVl gabroo,grlgbmuaugovbuz
brfuagqmuzurlgkszgpvbmuzagornu ,gVfszvbmgvbgbmugbvcrlxgkpgbmugRabmfsa,
rffkovbu garhgmsl zu gtkslxgXzuucagbkgmragpvbmuz’agakso,grlgbmuglvbszugkp
vgwzkwrbrvbkztgavizrpriugpkzgmragarlajggVl grlgbmkaugluqgikslbzrua
 raiknuzu grlgbmragvxugkpgksza,gqmrimgvzugwszugvl gnrzxrlgtub,grl
ikfwvzraklgkpgksza,gbmragwzvibriugragrlgakfugfuvaszugunuztqmuzugzuiurnu :
voogbmurzgr koagzuucgqrbmgmsfvlg.okk ,glkbgqrbmksbgnvzrksaguhvfwouagkp
mkzzr gizsuobt:gakfugbmutg.szlgvornu,gvl gbvcu,gmvopg.zkrou ,gkppgbmu
ikvoagbkgbuvzgksbgbmurzgmuvzbagvl gulbzvroa;gakfu,gunulgqkful,gbmutgpovt
vornu,gvl gqrbmgbmurzg.okk tgacrlagiokbmugvl g raxsraugkbmuzajggLurbmuz
vzugqugqrbmksbgxzuvbguhvfwouagkpgiklabvlitgvl gzuakosbrklgrlgbmragvppvrz
bmugwkkzgaksoagbmvbgvzugbkg.ugavizrpriu ,gko gful,gqkful,gvl gimro zul,
bmufauonuagxkrlxgv.ksbgakfug vtag.upkzugbkg.uxgvofagpkzgbmugkppuzrlxgkp
bmurzgavizrpriu,gwzuaulbrlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmugaovsxmbuz,garlxrlxgvl 
 vlirlxgqrbmgbmugawuibvbkzaj

Bmugvf.vaav kzagkpgbmugcrlxgkpgFuhrik,gaubbrlxgksbgbkgPuzlvl kgIkzbudgbmu
wkquzgvl gxzuvbluaagkpgbmurzgfvabuz,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgbko gmrf,gbmvbgmugmv 
bmrzbtgnvaavoa,gkpgqmkfguvimgqvagv.ougbkgzvraugvlgmsl zu gbmksavl 
prxmbrlxgful,gvl gbmvbgmugcuwbgmragikszbgrlgbmugpvrzuabgvl g.uab
pkzbrpru girbtgsl uzgbmugasl,gv  u gvbgovab,gbmvbgmugqvagk.orxu gtuvzot
bkgkppuzgbkgbmugxk agprpbtgbmksavl gfuljggVl grbgragvpprzfu ,gbmvbgmu
fvrlbvrlu gvgiklbrlsvogqvz,gqrbmgakfugwkbulbglurxm.kszrlxglvbrkla,glkb
klotgbkgcuuwgbmugtkslxgfulgrlguhuzirau,g.sbgwzrlirwvootgbkgmvnu
qmuzuqrbmvogbkgpszlramgmragavizrpriuagqrbmgmragwzrakluzagkpgqvzjggVbgv
iuzbvrlgbkqlgrlgvlkbmuzgwoviu,gpkzgbmugquoikfugkpgbmugavr gIkzbud,gbmut
avizrpriu gprpbtgfulgvbgkliujggRgqroogbuoogtksgbmragklugbvougfkzu,gvl gR
mvnug klu;gakfugkpgbmuaugwukwoug.urlxg.uvbulg.tgmrf,gaulbgbkgviclkqou xu
mrf,gvl gbkgbzuvbgqrbmgmrfgkpgvgwuviu,gqmkaugfuaaulxuzagivzzru gmrfgbmzuu
akzbagkpgxrpba,gqmrimgbmutgwzuaulbu grlgbmuaugbuzfa:g“.umko ,gokz ,gmuzu
vzugprnugaovnua:grpgbmksgvzbgvgpszrksagxk gbmvbgpuu ubmgswklgpouamgvl 
.okk ,guvbgbmuau,gvl gqugqroog.zrlxgbmuugfkzu;grpgbmksgvzbgvlgvppv.ou
xk ,g.umko gmuzugrliulaugvl gpuvbmuza;g.sbgrpgbmksgvzbgvgfvl,gbvcugbmuau
pkqoagvl gbmuaugpzsrbagbmvbgqugmvnug.zksxmbgbmuuj”




IMVWBUZgHHH

KPgIVLLR.VOA

QmulgCrlxgWtzzmsagrlnv u gRbvot,gmvnrlxgnruqu gvl giklar uzu gbmugkz uz
kpgbmugvzftgbmugZkfvlagaulbgksbgbkgfuubgmrf;g“Rgclkqglkb,”gavr gmu,
“qmvbgcrl gkpg.vz.vzrvla”g(pkzgakgbmugXzuucagivoou gvoogkbmuzglvbrkla)
“bmuaugfvtg.u;g.sbgbmug rawkarbrklgkpgbmragvzftgbmvbgRgauugmvaglkbmrlxgkp
.vz.vzrafgrlgrbj”--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgWtzzmsa,gijg8j]--Vagfsimgavr gbmu
XzuucagkpgbmvbgqmrimgPovfrlrsag.zksxmbgrlbkgbmurzgikslbzt;gvl gWmrorw,
.umko rlxgpzkfgvlgufrluliugbmugkz uzgvl g rabzr.sbrklgkpgbmugZkfvlgivfw
pkzfu grlgmragcrlx kfg.tgWs.orsagAsowrirsagXvo.v,gawvcugbkgbmugavfu
uppuibjgg.tgqmrimgrbgvwwuvzagmkqgivsbrksagfulgksxmbgbkg.ugkpgbvcrlx
bmrlxagswklgbzsabgpzkfgnsoxvzgkwrlrkl,gvl gbmvbgqugvzugbkgys xug.tgbmu
utugkpgzuvakl,gvl glkbgpzkfgikffklgzuwkzbj

Rgoklxgmv gvgfvlgrlgftgmksaugbmvbgornu gbulgkzgbquonugtuvzagrlgbmugLuq
Qkzo ,g raiknuzu grlgbmuaugovbbuzg vta,gvl grlgbmvbgwvzbgkpgrbgqmuzu
Nroouxvrxlklgovl u ,--[Vbg.zvdro,grlg1557j]--qmrimgmugivoou gVlbvzibri
PzvliujggBmrag raiknuztgkpgakgnvabgvgikslbztgauufagbkg.ugkpgnuztgxzuvb
iklar uzvbrkljggRgivllkbg.ugaszu,gbmvbgmuzuvpbuzgbmuzugfvtglkbg.u
vlkbmuz,gakgfvltgqrauzgfulgbmvlgqugmvnrlxg.uulg uiurnu grlgbmrajggRgvf
vpzvr gkszgutuagvzug.rxxuzgbmvlgkszg.uoorua,gvl gbmvbgqugmvnugfkzu
iszrkarbtgbmvlgivwvirbt;gpkzgqugxzvawgvbgvoo,g.sbgivbimglkbmrlxg.sbgqrl j

Wovbkg.zrlxagrlgAkokl,--[RlgBrfvusaj]--buoorlxgvgabkztgbmvbgmugmv 
muvz gpzkfgbmugwzruabagkpgAvragrlgUxtwb,gbmvbgkpgko ,gvl g.upkzugbmu
 uosxu,gbmuzugqvagvgxzuvbgraovl givoou gVbovlbra,garbsvbug rzuibotgvbgbmu
fksbmgkpgbmugabzvrbagkpgXr.zvobvz,gqmrimgiklbvrlu gfkzugikslbzruagbmvl
.kbmgVpzrivgvl gVarvgwsbgbkxubmuz;gvl gbmvbgbmugcrlxagkpgbmvbgikslbzt,
qmkglkbgklotgwkaauaau gbmvbgRaou,g.sbguhbul u gbmurzg kfrlrklgakgpvzgrlbk
bmugiklbrlulbgbmvbgbmutgmv gvgikslbztgkpgVpzrivgvagpvzgvagUxtwb,gvl 
uhbul rlxgrlgUszkwugbkgBsaivlt,gvbbufwbu gbkgulizkvimgunulgswklgVarv,gvl 
bkgas.ysxvbugvoogbmuglvbrklagbmvbg.kz uzgswklgbmugFu rbuzzvluvlgAuv,gva
pvzgvagbmug.ovicgAuv;gvl gbkgbmvbguppuibgknuzzvlgvoogAwvrl,gbmugXvsoa,
vl gRbvot,gakgpvzgvagbkgwulubzvbugrlbkgXzuuiu,gqmuzugbmugVbmulrvla
abkwwu gbmuf:g.sbgbmvbgakfugbrfugvpbuz,g.kbmgbmugVbmulrvla,gvl gbmutgvl 
bmurzgraovl ,gquzugaqvookqu g.tgbmugPokk j

Rbgragnuztgorcuotgbmvbgbmraguhbzufugrzzswbrklgvl grlsl vbrklgkpgqvbuz
fv ugqkl uzpsogimvlxuagvl gvobuzvbrklagrlgbmugmv.rbvbrklagkpgbmuguvzbm,
vag‘bragavr gbmvbgbmugauvgbmulg rnr u gArirotgpzkfgRbvot--

ggggggggg“Mvuigokiv,gnrgeskl vfgubgnvabvgiklnsoavgzsrlv,
gggggggggg raarosraaugpuzslb,gessfgwzkbulsagsbzvesugbuoosa
ggggggggggSlvgpkzub”

ggggg[“Bmuaugovl a,gbmutgavt,gpkzfuzotgqrbmgnrkouliugvl gnvabg uakovbrkl
gggggiklnsoau ,g.szabgvasl uz,gqmuzuguzuqmrougquzuj”--VUlur ,grrrjg414j]

ItwzsagpzkfgAtzrv,gbmugraougkpgLuxzkwklbgpzkfgbmugiklbrlulbgkpg.uukbrv,
vl guoauqmuzugslrbu govl agbmvbgquzugauwvzvbug.upkzu,g.tgproorlxgswgbmu
imvlluog.ubqrhbgbmufgqrbmgavl gvl gfs :

gggggggggggggg“Abuzroraesug rsgwvosa,gvwbvesugzufra,
gggggggggggggggNrirlvagsz.uagvorb,gubgxzvnugaulbrbgvzvbzsfj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgqmrimgqvagkliugvgabuzrougfvzam,gvl g.kzugnuaauoagklgrba
ggggg.kakf,glkqgpuu aglurxm.kszrlxgirbrua,gvl gv frbagbmugwoksxmj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,g ugVzbugWkubriv,gnjg65j]

.sbgbmuzugraglkgxzuvbgvwwuvzvliugbmvbgbmragraougqvagbmragLuqgQkzo gak
ovbuotg raiknuzu :gpkzgbmvbgvofkabgbksimu gswklgAwvrl,gvl grbgquzugvl
rlizu r.ouguppuibgkpgvlgrlsl vbrkl,gbkgmvnugbsf.ou g.vicgakgwzk rxrksagv
fvaa,gv.knugbquonugmsl zu gouvxsua:g.uar uagbmvbgkszgfk uzlglvnrxvbkza
mvnugvozuv tgvofkabg raiknuzu grbgbkg.uglkgraovl ,g.sbgbuzzvgprzfv,gvl 
iklbrlulbgqrbmgbmugUvabgRl ruagklgbmugklugar u,gvl gqrbmgbmugovl agsl uz
bmugbqkgwkouagklgbmugkbmuzgar u;gkz,grpgrbg.ugauwvzvbugpzkfgbmuf,grbgra
.tgakglvzzkqgvgabzvrbgvl gimvlluo,gbmvbgrbglklugbmugfkzug uauznuagbmu
lvfugkpgvlgraovl gpkzgbmvbj

Rbgamkso gauuf,gbmvbgrlgbmragxzuvbg.k t,gbmuzugvzugbqkgakzbagkpgfkbrkla,
bmugkluglvbszvogvl gbmugkbmuzgpu.zrpri,gvagbmuzugvzugrlgkszajggQmulgR
iklar uzgbmugrfwzuaarklgbmvbgkszgzrnuzgkpg kz kxlugmvagfv ugrlgftgbrfugkl
bmugzrxmbg.vlcgkpgrbag uaiulb,gvl gbmvbgrlgbqulbtgtuvzagrbgmvagxvrlu gak
fsim,gvl gsl uzfrlu gbmugpksl vbrklagkpgakgfvltgmksaua,gRgwuziurnugrbgbk
.ugvlguhbzvkz rlvztgvxrbvbrkl:gpkzgmv grbgvoqvtagpkookqu gbmragikszau,
kzgquzugmuzuvpbuzgbkg kgrb,gbmugvawuibgkpgbmugqkzo gqkso g.ugbkbvoot
imvlxu jgg.sbgzrnuzagvobuzgbmurzgikszau,gakfubrfuag.uvbrlxgvxvrlabgbmu
klugar u,gvl gakfubrfuagbmugkbmuz,gvl gakfugbrfuagesrubotgcuuwrlxgbmu
imvlluojggRg kglkbgawuvcgkpgas  ulgrlsl vbrkla,gbmugivsauagkpgqmrim
unuzt.k tgsl uzabvl ajggRlgFu ki,g.tgbmugauvamkzu,gbmugAruszg ’Vzavi,gft
.zkbmuz,gauuagvlguabvbugmugmv gbmuzu,g.szru gsl uzgbmugavl agqmrimgbmu
auvgnkfrbag.upkzugrb:gqmuzugbmugbkwagkpgakfugmksauagvzugtubgbkg.ugauul,
vl gqmuzugmragzulbagvl g kfvrlagvzugiklnuzbu grlbkgwrbrpsog.vzzul
wvabszvxujggBmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmragwoviugvpprzf,gbmvbgkpgovbugtuvzagbmu
auvgmvag zrnulgakgnumufulbotgswklgbmuf,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugokabgv.knugpksz
ouvxsuagkpgovl jggBmuaugavl agvzugmuzgmvz.rlxuza:gvl gquglkqgauugxzuvb
muvwagkpgfknrlxgavl ,gbmvbgfvzimgmvopgvgouvxsug.upkzugmuz,gvl gkiiswtgbmu
ovl j

Bmugkbmuzgbuabrfkltgpzkfgvlbresrbt,gbkgqmrimgakfugqkso gvwwotgbmra
 raiknuztgkpgbmugLuqgQkzo ,gragrlgVzrabkbou;gvbgouvab,grpgbmvbgorbbou
.kkcgkpgSlmuvz gkpgFrzviouag.ugmra--[klugkpgbmugawszrksagws.orivbrkla
.zksxmbgksbgsl uzgmraglvfu-- jQj]jggMugbmuzugbuooagsa,gbmvbgiuzbvrl
Ivzbmvxrlrvla,gmvnrlxgizkaau gbmugVbovlbrigAuvgqrbmksbgbmugAbzvrbagkp
Xr.zvobvz,gvl gavrou gvgnuztgoklxgbrfu,g raiknuzu gvbgovabgvgxzuvbgvl 
pzsrbpsograovl ,gvoogiknuzu gknuzgqrbmgqkk ,gvl gqvbuzu gqrbmgaunuzvo
.zkv gvl g uuwgzrnuza,gpvzgzufkbugpzkfgvoogbuzzvgprzfv;gvl gbmvbgbmut,
vl gkbmuzagvpbuzgbmuf,gvooszu g.tgbmugxkk luaagvl gpuzbrorbtgkpgbmugakro,
qulbgbmrbmuzgqrbmgbmurzgqrnuagvl gimro zul,gvl g.uxvlgbkgwovlbgvgikokltj
.sbgbmugaulvbugkpgIvzbmvxugwuziurnrlxgbmurzgwukwoug.tgorbbougvl gorbbou
bkg rfrlram,graasu gksbgvlguhwzuaagwzkmr.rbrkl,gbmvbglklu,gswklgwvrlgkp
 uvbm,gamkso gbzvlawkzbgbmufauonuagbmrbmuz;gvl gvoakg zknugksbgbmuaugluq
rlmv.rbvlba;gpuvzrlx,g‘bragavr ,gouab’grlgwzkiuaagkpgbrfugbmutgamkso gak
fsobrwotgvagbkgaswwovlbgbmufauonuagvl gzsrlgbmurzgabvbujgg.sbgbmra
zuovbrklgkpgVzrabkbouglkgfkzugvxzuuagqrbmgkszgluq-pksl govl agbmvlgbmu
kbmuzj

BmragfvlgbmvbgRgmv gqvagvgwovrlgrxlkzvlbgpuookq,gvl gbmuzupkzugbmugfkzu
orcuotgbkgbuoogbzsbm:gpkzgtkszg.ubbuz-.zu gakzbgkpgfulgvzugfsimgfkzu
iszrksagrlgbmurzgk.auznvbrkl,g‘bragbzsu,gvl g raiknuzgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzu;
.sbgbmulgbmutgxokaagswklgrb,gvl gbkgxrnugbmugxzuvbuzgqurxmbgbkgqmvbgbmut
 uornuz,gvl gvooszugtkszg.uorup,gbmutgivllkbgpkz.uvzgvgorbbougbkgvobuz
bmugabkzt;gbmutglunuzgzuwzuaulbgbmrlxagbkgtksgarfwotgvagbmutgvzu,g.sb
zvbmuzgvagbmutgvwwuvzu gbkgbmuf,gkzgvagbmutgqkso gmvnugbmufgvwwuvzgbk
tks,gvl gbkgxvrlgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgfulgkpgys xfulb,gvl gbmug.ubbuzgbk
rl siugtkszgpvrbm,gvzugqroorlxgbkgmuowgksbgbmug.sarluaagqrbmgakfubmrlx
fkzugbmvlgragzuvootgbzsu,gkpgbmurzgkqlgrlnulbrkljggLkqgrlgbmragivau,gqu
amkso gurbmuzgmvnugvgfvlgkpgrzzuwzkvimv.ougnuzvirbt,gkzgakgarfwougbmvbgmu
mvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgiklbzrnu,gvl gbkgxrnugvgikokszgkpgbzsbmgbkgpvoau
zuovbrkla,gvl gqmkgivlgmvnuglkgul agrlgpkzxrlxgvlgslbzsbmjggAsimgvgklu
qvagfrlu;gvl g.uar ua,gmugmvagvbg rnuzagbrfuag.zksxmbgbkgfugaunuzvo
auvfulgvl gfuzimvlbagqmkgvbgbmugavfugbrfugqulbgbmugavfugnktvxujggRgamvoo
bmuzupkzugiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgmragrlpkzfvbrkl,gqrbmksbgrlesrzrlxgqmvbgbmu
ikafkxzvwmuzagavtgbkgbmug.sarluaajggQugamkso gmvnugbkwkxzvwmuzagbkgbzviu
ksbgbkgsagbmugwvzbrisovzgwoviuagqmuzugbmutgmvnug.uul;g.sbgpkzgmvnrlxgmv 
bmragv nvlbvxugknuzgsa,gbkgmvnugauulgbmugMkotgOvl ,gbmutgqkso gmvnugbmu
wzrnrouxu,gpkzakkbm,gbkgbuoogsagabkzruagkpgvoogbmugkbmuzgwvzbagkpgbmu
qkzo g.uar ujggRgqkso gmvnugunuztgklugqzrbugqmvbgmugclkqa,gvl gvagfsimgva
mugclkqa,g.sbglkgfkzu;gvl gbmvbglkbgrlgbmragklotg.sbgrlgvoogkbmuz
as.yuiba;gpkzgasimgvgwuzaklgfvtgmvnugakfugwvzbrisovzgclkqou xugvl 
uhwuzruliugkpgbmuglvbszugkpgasimgvgzrnuz,gkzgasimgvgpkslbvrl,gqmk,gvagbk
kbmuzgbmrlxa,gclkqaglkgfkzugbmvlgqmvbgunuzt.k tg kua,gvl gtubgbkgxrnugv
iszzulitgbkgmragorbbougwrbbvliugkpgouvzlrlx,gqroogsl uzbvcugbkgqzrbugbmu
qmkoug.k tgkpgwmtaria:gvgnriugpzkfgqmrimgxzuvbgrliklnulruliuag uzrnu
bmurzgkzrxrlvoj

Lkq,gbkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib,gRgprl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxg.vz.vzksagvl 
avnvxugrlgbmraglvbrkl,g.tgvltbmrlxgbmvbgRgivlgxvbmuz,guhiuwbrlx,gbmvb
unuztgklugxrnuagbmugbrbougkpg.vz.vzrafgbkgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgraglkbgrlgsau
rlgmragkqlgikslbztjggVa,grl uu ,gqugmvnuglkgkbmuzgounuogkpgbzsbmgvl 
zuvaklgbmvlgbmuguhvfwougvl gr uvgkpgbmugkwrlrklagvl gisabkfagkpgbmugwoviu
qmuzurlgqugornu:gbmuzugragvoqvtagbmugwuzpuibgzuorxrkl,gbmuzugbmugwuzpuib
xknuzlfulb,gbmuzugbmugfkabguhvibgvl gviikfworamu gsavxugkpgvoogbmrlxaj
Bmutgvzugavnvxuagvbgbmugavfugzvbugbmvbgqugavtgpzsrbagvzugqro ,gqmrim
lvbszugwzk siuagkpgmuzauopgvl g.tgmuzgkqlgkz rlvztgwzkxzuaa;gqmuzuva,grl
bzsbm,gqugksxmbgzvbmuzgbkgivoogbmkaugqro gqmkauglvbszuagqugmvnugimvlxu 
.tgkszgvzbrpriugvl g rnuzbu gpzkfgbmugikffklgkz uzjggRlgbmkau,gbmu
xulsrlu,gfkabgsaupso,gvl glvbszvognrzbsuagvl gwzkwuzbruagvzugnrxkzksagvl 
awzrxmbot,gqmrimgqugmvnugmuowu gbkg uxuluzvbugrlgbmuau,g.tgviikffk vbrlx
bmufgbkgbmugwouvaszugkpgkszgkqlgikzzswbu gwvovbujggVl gtubgpkzgvoogbmra,
kszgbvabugiklpuaauagvgpovnkszgvl g uorivitguhiuooulbgunulgbkgufsovbrklgkp
bmug.uabgkpgksza,grlgaunuzvogpzsrbagqmuzurlgbmkaugikslbzruagv.ksl 
qrbmksbgvzbgkzgisobszujggLurbmuzgragrbgzuvaklv.ougbmvbgvzbgamkso gxvrl
bmugwzu-ufrluliugkpgkszgxzuvbgvl gwkquzpsogfkbmuzglvbszujggQugmvnugak
aszimvzxu gmuzgqrbmgbmugv  rbrklvogkzlvfulbagvl gxzviuagqugmvnugv  u gbk
bmug.uvsbtgvl gzrimuagkpgmuzgkqlgqkzcag.tgkszgrlnulbrkla,gbmvbgqugmvnu
vofkabgafkbmuzu gmuz;gtubgrlgkbmuzgwoviua,gqmuzugamugamrluagrlgmuzgkql
wszrbtgvl gwzkwuzgosabzu,gamugfvznuooksaotg.vppouagvl g raxzviuagvoogksz
nvrlgvl gpzrnkoksagvbbufwba:

gggggggggggggg“Ubgnulrslbgmu uzvugawklbugasvgfuorsa;
gggggggggggggggAszxrbgubgrlgakoragpkzfkarkzgvz.sbsagvlbzra;
gggggggggggggggUbgnkosizuaglsooag soirsagvzbugivlslbj”

ggggg[“Bmugrntgxzkqag.uabgawklbvluksaot,gbmugvz.sbsag.uabgrlgamv tgivnua;
gggggvl gbmugqro glkbuagkpg.rz agvzugaquubuzgbmvlgvzbgivlgbuvimj
ggggg--“Wzkwuzbrsa,grjg2,g10j]

Kszgsbfkabgul uvnkszagivllkbgvzzrnugvbgakgfsimgvagbkgrfrbvbugbmugluabgkp
bmugouvabgkpg.rz a,grbagiklbuhbszu,g.uvsbt,gvl giklnulruliu:glkbgakgfsim
vagbmugqu.gkpgvgwkkzgawr uzj

Voogbmrlxa,gavtagWovbk,--[Ovqa,g10j]--vzugwzk siu gurbmuzg.tglvbszu,g.t
pkzbslu,gkzg.tgvzb;gbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabg.uvsbrpsog.tgbmugklugkzgbmu
kbmuzgkpgbmugpkzfuz,gbmugouvabgvl gbmugfkabgrfwuzpuibg.tgbmugovabj

Bmuauglvbrklagbmulgauufgbkgfugbkg.ugakgpvzg.vz.vzksa,gvagmvnrlxgzuiurnu 
.sbgnuztgorbbougpkzfgvl gpvamrklgpzkfgvzbgvl gmsfvlgrlnulbrkl,gvl 
iklauesulbotgbkg.uglkbgfsimgzufkbugpzkfgbmurzgkzrxrlvogarfworirbtjggBmu
ovqagkpglvbszu,gmkqunuz,gxknuzlgbmufgabroo,glkbgvagtubgfsimgnrbrvbu gqrbm
vltgfrhbszugkpgksza:g.sbg‘bragrlgasimgwszrbt,gbmvbgRgvfgakfubrfua
bzks.ou gqugquzuglkbgakkluzgviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmuaugwukwou,gvl gbmvbgbmut
quzuglkbg raiknuzu grlgbmkaug.ubbuzgbrfua,gqmulgbmuzugquzugfulgfsimgfkzu
v.ougbkgys xugkpgbmufgbmvlgqugvzujggRgvfgakzztgbmvbgOtiszxsagvl gWovbk
mv glkgclkqou xugkpgbmuf;gpkzgbkgftgvwwzumularkl,gqmvbgquglkqgauugrl
bmkauglvbrkla,g kuaglkbgklotgaszwvaagvoogbmugwribszuagqrbmgqmrimgbmu
wkubagmvnugv kzlu gbmugxko ulgvxu,gvl gvoogbmurzgrlnulbrklagrlgpurxlrlxgv
mvwwtgabvbugkpgfvl,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gbmugpvlitgvl gunulgbmugqramgvl g uarzu
kpgwmrokakwmtgrbauop;gakglvbrnugvl gakgwszugvgarfworirbt,gvagqug.t
uhwuzruliugauugbkg.ugrlgbmuf,gikso glunuzgulbuzgrlbkgbmurzgrfvxrlvbrkl,
lkzgikso gbmutgunuzg.uorunugbmvbgmsfvlgakirubtgikso gmvnug.uulgfvrlbvrlu 
qrbmgakgorbbougvzbrpriugvl gmsfvlgwvbimqkzcjggRgamkso gbuoogWovbkgbmvbgrb
ragvglvbrklgqmuzurlgbmuzugraglkgfvlluzgkpgbzvppri,glkgclkqou xugkp
oubbuza,glkgairuliugkpglsf.uza,glkglvfugkpgfvxrabzvbugkzgwkorbrivo
aswuzrkzrbt;glkgsaugkpgauznriu,gzrimuagkzgwknuzbt,glkgiklbzviba,glk
asiiuaarkla,glkg rnr ul a,glkgwzkwuzbrua,glkgufwoktfulba,g.sbgbmkaugkp
ouraszu,glkgzuawuibgkpgcrl zu ,g.sbgikffkl,glkgiokbmrlx,glkgvxzrisobszu,
lkgfubvo,glkgsaugkpgikzlgkzgqrlu;gbmugnuztgqkz agbmvbgarxlrptgotrlx,
bzuvimuzt,g raarfsovbrkl,gvnvzriu,gulnt,g ubzvibrkl,gwvz kl,glunuzgmuvz 
kpj

ggggg--[BmragragbmugpvfksagwvaavxugqmrimgAmvcuawuvzu,gbmzksxmgPokzrk’a
gggggnuzarkl,g1603,gkzgu jgg1613,gwjg102,gmvagufwoktu grlgbmug“Bufwuab,”
ggggggrrjg1j]

Mkqgfsimgqkso gmugprl gmragrfvxrlvztgZuws.origamkzbgkpgmragwuzpuibrkl?

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nrzrgvg rragzuiulbuaj”

gggggggggg[“Fulgpzuamgpzkfgbmugxk aj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g90j]

ggggggggggggggg“Mkaglvbszvgfk kagwzrfsfg u rbj”

gggggggggg[“Bmuaugquzugbmugfvlluzagprzabgbvsxmbg.tglvbszuj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxria,grrjg20j]

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gbmutgornugrlgvgikslbztgnuztgwouvavlbgvl gbufwuzvbu,gak
bmvb,gvagftgqrbluaauagrlpkzfgfu,g‘bragzvzugbkgmuvzgkpgvgaricgwuzakl,gvl 
bmutgfkzuknuzgvaaszugfu,gbmvbgbmutglunuzgavqgvltgkpgbmuglvbrnua,gurbmuz
wvzvotbri,g.ouvzutu ,gbkkbmouaa,gkzgizkkcu gqrbmgvxujggBmugarbsvbrklgkp
bmurzgikslbztgragvoklxgbmugauv-amkzu,guliokau gklgbmugkbmuzgar ugbkqvz a
bmugovl ,gqrbmgxzuvbgvl gmrxmgfkslbvrla,gmvnrlxgv.ksbgvgmsl zu gouvxsua
rlg.zuv bmg.ubquuljggBmutgmvnugxzuvbgabkzugkpgpramgvl gpouam,gbmvbgmvnu
lkgzuauf.ovliugbkgbmkaugkpgksza:gqmrimgbmutguvbgqrbmksbgvltgkbmuz
ikkcuzt,gbmvlgwovrlg.krorlx,gzkvabrlx,gvl g.zkrorlxjggBmugprzabgbmvbgzk u
vgmkzaugbmrbmuz,gbmksxmgrlgaunuzvogkbmuzgnktvxuagmugmv giklbzvibu gvl
viesvrlbvliugvl gpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgbmuf,gwsbgbmufgrlbkgakgbuzzr.ougv
pzrxmb,gqrbmgmragiulbvszgvwwuvzvliu,gbmvbgbmutgcroou gmrfgqrbmgbmurz
vzzkqag.upkzugbmutgikso gikfugbkg raiknuzgqmkgmugqvajggBmurzg.sro rlxa
vzugnuztgoklx,gvl gkpgivwvirbtgbkgmko gbqkgkzgbmzuugmsl zu gwukwou,gfv u
kpgbmug.vzcagkpgbvoogbzuua,gzuvzu gqrbmgklugul gswklgbmugxzksl ,gvl 
ouvlrlxgbkgvl gaswwkzbrlxgklugvlkbmuzgvbgbmugbkw,gorcugakfugkpgkszg.vzla,
kpgqmrimgbmugiknuzrlxgmvlxag kqlgbkgbmugnuztgxzksl ,gvl gauznuagpkzgbmu
ar ugqvooajgBmutgmvnugqkk gakgmvz ,gbmvbgbmutgisbgqrbmgrb,gvl gfvcugbmurz
aqkz agkpgrb,gvl gbmurzgxzrooagkpgrbgbkg.zkrogbmurzgfuvbjggBmurzg.u agvzu
kpgikbbkl,gmslxgaqrlxrlxgpzkfgbmugzkkp,gorcugkszgauvful’agmvffkica,gunuzt
fvlgmragkql,gpkzgbmugqrnuagorugvwvzbgpzkfgbmurzgmsa.vl ajggBmutgzraugqrbm
bmugasl,gvl gakgakklgvagbmutgvzugsw,guvbgpkzgvoog vt,gpkzgbmutgmvnuglk
fkzugfuvoag.sbgbmvb;gbmutg kglkbgbmulg zrlc,gvagAsr vagzuwkzbagkpgakfu
kbmuzgwukwougkpgbmugUvabgbmvbglunuzg zvlcgvbgbmurzgfuvoa;g.sbg zrlcgnuzt
kpbulgvoog vtgvpbuz,gvl gakfubrfuagbkgvgzksarlxgwrbimjggBmurzg zrlcgra
fv ugkpgvgiuzbvrlgzkkb,gvl gragkpgbmugikokszgkpgkszgiovzub,gvl gbmut
lunuzg zrlcgrbg.sbgoscuqvzfjggRbgqrooglkbgcuuwgv.knugbqkgkzgbmzuug vta;
rbgmvagvgakfuqmvbgamvzw,g.zracgbvabu,graglkbmrlxgmuv t,g.sbgnuzt
ikfpkzbv.ougbkgbmugabkfvim;govhvbrnugbkgabzvlxuza,g.sbgvgnuztgwouvavlb
.unuzvxugbkgasimgvagvzugviisabkfu gbkgrbjggBmutgfvcugsau,grlabuv gkp
.zuv ,gkpgvgiuzbvrlgqmrbugikfwksl ,gorcugikzrvl uzgauu a;gRgmvnugbvabu 
kpgrb;gbmugbvabugragaquubgvl gvgorbbougpovbjggBmugqmkoug vtgragawulbgrl
 vlirlxjggBmurzgtkslxgfulgxkgv-mslbrlxgvpbuzgqro g.uvabagqrbmg.kqagvl 
vzzkqa;gklugwvzbgkpgbmurzgqkfulgvzugufwoktu grlgwzuwvzrlxgbmurzg zrlcgbmu
qmrou,gqmrimgragbmurzgimrupgufwoktfulbjggKlugkpgbmurzgko gful,grlgbmu
fkzlrlxg.upkzugbmutgpvoogbkguvbrlx,gwzuvimuagbkgbmugqmkougpvfrot,gqvocrlx
pzkfgbmugklugul gkpgbmugmksaugbkgbmugkbmuz,gvl gaunuzvogbrfuagzuwuvbrlx
bmugavfugaulbuliu,gbroogmugmvagprlramu gbmugzksl ,gpkzgbmurzgmksauagvzu
vbgouvabgvgmsl zu gtvz agoklxjggNvokszgbkqvz agbmurzgulufruagvl goknu
bkqvz agbmurzgqrnua,gvzugbmugbqkgmuv agkpgmrag raikszau,glunuzgpvrorlxgrl
bmugiokau,gbkgwsbgbmufgrlgfrl ,gbmvbg‘bragbmurzgqrnuagqmkgwzknr ugbmuf
bmurzg zrlcgqvzfgvl gquoogauvaklu jggBmugpvamrklgkpgbmurzg.u a,gzkwua,
aqkz a,gvl gkpgbmugqkk ulg.zviuoubagbmutgbrugv.ksbgbmurzgqzraba,gqmul
bmutgxkgbkgprxmb,gvl gkpgbmugxzuvbgivlua,g.kzu gmkookqgvbgklugul ,g.tgbmu
aksl gkpgqmrimgbmutgcuuwgbmugiv uliugkpgbmurzg vliua,gvzugbkg.ugauulgrl
aunuzvogwoviua,gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,gvbgftgmksaujggBmutgamvnugvoogknuz,
vl gfsimgfkzugluvbotgbmvlgqu,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgzvdkzgbmvlgklugkpgqkk gkz
abklujggBmutg.uorunugrlgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgbmugakso,gvl gbmvbgbmkaugqmk
mvnugfuzrbu gquoogkpgbmugxk agvzugok xu grlgbmvbgwvzbgkpgmuvnulgqmuzugbmu
aslgzraua,gvl gbmugviiszau grlgbmugquabj

BmutgmvnugRgclkqglkbgqmvbgcrl gkpgwzruabagvl gwzkwmuba,gqmkgnuztgzvzuot
wzuaulbgbmufauonuagbkgbmugwukwou,gmvnrlxgbmurzgv.k ugrlgbmugfkslbvrlaj
Vbgbmurzgvzzrnvo,gbmuzugragvgxzuvbgpuvab,gvl gakouflgvaauf.otgkpgfvlt
nroovxua:guvimgmksau,gvagRgmvnug uaizr.u ,gfvcuagvgnroovxu,gvl gbmutgvzu
v.ksbgvgPzulimgouvxsug rabvlbgpzkfgklugvlkbmuzjggBmragwzkwmubg uiovrfagbk
bmufgrlgws.ori,guhmkzbrlxgbmufgbkgnrzbsugvl gbmurzg sbt:g.sbgvoogbmurz
ubmriagvzugikfwzrau grlgbmuaugbqkgvzbrioua,gzuakosbrklgrlgqvz,gvl 
vppuibrklgbkgbmurzgqrnuajggMugvoakgwzkwmuaruagbkgbmufgunulbagbkgikfu,gvl 
bmugraasuagbmutgvzugbkguhwuibgpzkfgbmurzgulbuzwzraua,gvl gwzkfwbagbmufgbk
kzg rnuzbagbmufgpzkfgqvz:g.sbgoubgmrfgokkcgbk’b;gpkzgrpgmugpvrogrlgmra
 rnrlvbrkl,gvl gvltbmrlxgmvwwulgkbmuzqraugbmvlgmugmvagpkzubko ,gmugragisb
rlbkgvgbmksavl gwruiua,grpgmug.ugivsxmb,gvl gikl uflu gpkzgvgpvoau
wzkwmub:gpkzgbmvbgzuvakl,grpgvltgkpgbmufgmvag.uulgfrabvcul,gmugraglkgfkzu
muvz gkpj

 rnrlvbrklgragvgxrpbgkpgXk ,gvl gbmuzupkzugbkgv.saugrb,gksxmbgbkg.ugv
wslramv.ougrfwkabszujggVfklxabgbmugAitbmrvla,gqmuzugbmurzg rnrluzagpvrou 
rlgbmugwzkfrau guppuib,gbmutgquzugovr ,g.ksl gmvl gvl gpkkb,gswklgivzba
okv u gqrbmgprzagvl g.vnrla,gvl g zvqlg.tgkhul,gklgqmrimgbmutgquzug.szlu 
bkg uvbmj--[Muzk kbsa,grnjgg69j]--Asimgvagklotgfu  ougqrbmgbmrlxa
as.yuibgbkgbmugikl sibgkpgmsfvlgivwvirbt,gvzuguhisav.ougrlg krlxgbmug.uab
bmutgivl:g.sbgbmkaugkbmuzgpuookqagbmvbgikfugbkg uos ugsagqrbmgvaaszvliua
kpgvlguhbzvkz rlvztgpvisobt,g.utkl gkszgsl uzabvl rlx,gksxmbgbmutglkbgbk
.ugwslramu ,gqmulgbmutg kglkbgfvcugxkk gbmuguppuibgkpgbmurzgwzkfrau,gvl 
pkzgbmugbufuzrbtgkpgbmurzgrfwkabszu?

Bmutgmvnugiklbrlsvogqvzgqrbmgbmuglvbrklagbmvbgornugpszbmuzgqrbmrlgbmu
fvrlovl ,g.utkl gbmurzgfkslbvrla,gbkgqmrimgbmutgxkglvcu ,gvl gqrbmksb
kbmuzgvzfagbmvlgbmurzg.kqagvl gqkk ulgaqkz a,gpvamrklu gvbgklugul gorcu
bmugmuv gkpgkszgyvnuorlajggBmugk.abrlvitgkpgbmurzg.vbbouagragqkl uzpso,
vl gbmutglunuzgul gqrbmksbgxzuvbguppsarklgkpg.okk :gpkzgvagbkgzsllrlx
vqvt,gbmutgclkqglkbgqmvbgrbgrajggUnuztgklugpkzgvgbzkwmtg.zrlxagmkfugbmu
muv gkpgvlguluftgmugmvagcroou ,gqmrimgmugprhuagknuzgbmug kkzgkpgmra
mksaujggVpbuzgmvnrlxgvgoklxgbrfugbzuvbu gbmurzgwzrakluzagnuztgquoo,gvl 
xrnulgbmufgvoogbmugzuxvouagbmutgivlgbmrlcgkp,gmugbkgqmkfgbmugwzrakluz
.uoklxa,grlnrbuagvgxzuvbgvaauf.otgkpgmragpzrul ajggBmutg.urlxgikfu,gmu
bruagvgzkwugbkgklugkpgbmugvzfagkpgbmugwzrakluz,gkpgqmrim,gvbgvg rabvliu,
ksbgkpgmragzuvim,gmugmko agbmugklugul gmrfauop,gvl gxrnuagbkgbmugpzrul 
mugoknuag.uabgbmugkbmuzgvzfgbkgmko gvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz;gqmrimg.urlxj
 klu,gbmutgbqk,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvoogbmugvaauf.ot,g uawvbimgmrfgqrbm
bmurzgaqkz ajggVpbuzgbmvb,gbmutgzkvabgmrf,guvbgmrfgvfklxabgbmuf,gvl gaul 
akfugimkwagbkgbmurzgv.aulbgpzrul ajggBmutg kglkbg kgbmra,gvagakfugbmrlc,
pkzglkszramfulb,gvagbmugAitbmrvlagvlirulbotg r ,g.sbgvagvgzuwzuaulbvbrkl
kpgvlguhbzufugzunulxu;gvagqroogvwwuvzg.tgbmra:gbmvbgmvnrlxgk.auznu gbmu
Wkzbsxsuau,gqmkgquzugrlgouvxsugqrbmgbmurzgulufrua,gbkgrlporibgvlkbmuz
akzbgkpg uvbmgswklgvltgkpgbmufgbmutgbkkcgwzrakluza,gqmrimgqvagbkgaubgbmuf
swgbkgbmugxrz ougrlgbmuguvzbm,gbkgamkkbgvbgbmugzufvrlrlxgwvzbgbroogrbgqva
absicgpsoogkpgvzzkqa,gvl gbmulgbkgmvlxgbmuf,gbmutgbmksxmbgbmkaugwukwougkp
bmugkbmuzgqkzo g(vag.urlxgfulgqmkgmv gakqlgbmugclkqou xugkpgvgxzuvbgfvlt
nriuagvfklxabgbmurzglurxm.ksza,gvl gqmkgquzugfsimgxzuvbuzgfvabuzagrlgvoo
akzbagkpgfraimrupgbmvlgbmut)g r glkbguhuziraugbmragakzbgkpgzunulxu
qrbmksbgvgfuvlrlx,gvl gbmvbgrbgfsabgluu ag.ugfkzugwvrlpsogbmvlgbmurza,
bmutg.uxvlgbkgouvnugbmurzgko gqvt,gvl gbkgpkookqgbmrajggRgvfglkbgakzzt
bmvbgqugamkso gmuzugbvcuglkbriugkpgbmug.vz.vzksagmkzzkzgkpgakgizsuogvl
vibrkl,g.sbgbmvb,gauurlxgakgiouvzotgrlbkgbmurzgpvsoba,gqugamkso g.ugak
.orl gbkgkszgkqljggRgikliurnugbmuzugragfkzug.vz.vzrbtgrlguvbrlxgvgfvl
vornu,gbmvlgqmulgmugrag uv ;grlgbuvzrlxgvg.k tgorf.gpzkfgorf.g.tgzvica
vl gbkzfulba,gbmvbgragtubgrlgwuzpuibgaulau;grlgzkvabrlxgrbg.tg uxzuua;grl
ivsarlxgrbgbkg.ug.rbbulgvl gqkzzru g.tg kxagvl gaqrlug(vagqugmvnuglkb
klotgzuv ,g.sbgovbuotgauul,glkbgvfklxabgrlnubuzvbugvl gfkzbvogulufrua,
.sbgvfklxglurxm.kszagvl gpuookq-irbrdula,gvl ,gqmrimgragqkzau,gsl uz
ikokszgkpgwrubtgvl gzuorxrkl),gbmvlgbkgzkvabgvl guvbgmrfgvpbuzgmugra
 uv j

Imztarwwsagvl gDulk,gbmugbqkgmuv agkpgbmugAbkrigauib,gquzugkpgkwrlrkl
bmvbgbmuzugqvaglkgmszbgrlgfvcrlxgsaugkpgkszg uv givzivaaua,grlgqmvbgqvt
akunuzgpkzgkszgluiuaarbt,gvl grlgpuu rlxgswklgbmufgbkk;--[ rkxulua
Ovuzbrsa,gnrrjgg188j]--vagkszgkqlgvliuabkza,gqmkg.urlxg.uaruxu g.t
IvuavzgrlgbmugirbtgVouhrv,gzuakonu gbkgasabvrlgbmugpvfrlugkpgbmugaruxu
qrbmgbmug.k ruagkpgbmurzgko gful,gqkful,gvl gkbmuzgwuzaklagqmkgquzu
rlivwv.ougkpg.uvzrlxgvzfaj

gggggggggggggg“Nvaiklua,gsbgpvfvguab,gvorfulbragbvor.sagsar
gggggggggggggggWzk shuzugvlrfvaj”

ggggg[“‘Bragavr gbmugXvaiklagqrbmgasimgfuvbagvwwuvau gbmurzgmslxuzj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghnjg93j]

Vl gbmugwmtarirvlagfvcuglkg.kluagkpgufwoktrlxgrbgbkgvoogakzbagkpgsau,
urbmuzgbkgvwwotgrbgksbqvz ot;gkzgbkgxrnugrbgrlqvz otgpkzgbmugmuvobmgkp
bmugwvbrulbjgg.sbgbmuzuglunuzgqvagvltgkwrlrklgakgrzzuxsovz,gvagbkguhisau
bzuvimuzt,g raoktvobt,gbtzvllt,gvl gizsuobt,gqmrimgvzugkszgpvfrorvz
nriuajggQugfvtgbmulgivoogbmuaugwukwoug.vz.vzksa,grlgzuawuibgbkgbmugzsoua
kpgzuvakl:g.sbglkbgrlgzuawuibgbkgkszauonua,gqmkgrlgvoogakzbagkpg.vz.vzrbt
uhiuu gbmufjggBmurzgqvzagvzugbmzksxmksbglk.ougvl gxuluzksa,gvl givzztgva
fsimguhisaugvl gpvrzgwzubuliu,gvagbmvbgmsfvlgfvov tgragivwv.ougkp;gmvnrlx
qrbmgbmufglkgkbmuzgpksl vbrklgbmvlgbmugakougyuvoksatgkpgnvokszjggBmurz
 rawsbuagvzuglkbgpkzgbmugiklesuabgkpgluqgovl a,gpkzgbmuaugbmutgvozuv t
wkaauaagvzugakgpzsrbpsog.tglvbszu,gvagbkgaswwotgbmufgqrbmksbgov.kszgkz
ikliuzl,gqrbmgvoogbmrlxagluiuaavzt,grlgasimgv.sl vliugbmvbgbmutgmvnuglk
luu gbkgulovzxugbmurzg.kz uzajggVl gbmutgvzu,gfkzuknuz,gmvwwtgrlgbmra,
bmvbgbmutgklotgiknubgakgfsimgvagbmurzglvbszvogluiuaarbruagzuesrzu:gvoo
.utkl gbmvbgragaswuzposksagbkgbmuf:gfulgkpgbmugavfugvxugivoogklugvlkbmuz
xuluzvootg.zkbmuza,gbmkaugqmkgvzugtkslxuz,gimro zul;gvl gbmugko gfulgvzu
pvbmuzagbkgvoojggBmuaugouvnugbkgbmurzgmurzagrlgikffklgbmugpsoogwkaauaarkl
kpgxkk a,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpg rnrarkl,gkzgkbmuzgbrbougbmvlgqmvbglvbszu
.uabkqagswklgmuzgizuvbszua,grlg.zrlxrlxgbmufgrlbkgbmugqkzo jggRpgbmurz
lurxm.kszagwvaagknuzgbmugfkslbvrlagbkgvaavsobgbmuf,gvl gk.bvrlgvgnribkzt,
voogbmugnribkzagxvrlg.tgrbgragxokztgklot,gvl gbmugv nvlbvxugkpgmvnrlx
wzknu gbmufauonuagbmug.ubbuzgrlgnvokszgvl gnrzbsu:gpkzgbmutglunuzgfu  ou
qrbmgbmugxkk agkpgbmugiklesuzu ,g.sbgwzuaulbotgzubszlgrlbkgbmurzgkql
ikslbzt,gqmuzugbmutgmvnuglkgqvlbgkpgvltbmrlxgluiuaavzt,glkzgkpgbmra
xzuvbuabgkpgvoogxkk a,gbkgclkqgmvwwrotgmkqgbkgulyktgbmurzgikl rbrklgvl 
bkg.ugiklbulbjggVl gbmkaugrlgbszlg kgbmugavfu;gbmutg ufvl gkpgbmurz
wzrakluzaglkgkbmuzgzvlakf,gbmvlgviclkqou xfulbgbmvbgbmutgvzugknuzikfu:
.sbgbmuzugraglkbgklugpksl grlgvlgvxu,gqmkgqrooglkbgzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg ru
bmvlgfvcugasimgvgiklpuaarkl,gkzgurbmuzg.tgqkz gkzgokkcgzuiu ugpzkfgbmu
ulbrzugxzvl uszgkpgvlgrlnrlir.ougikszvxujggBmuzugraglkbgvgfvlgvfklxab
bmufgqmkgmv glkbgzvbmuzg.ugcroou gvl guvbul,gbmvlgakgfsimgvagbkgkwulgmra
fksbmgbkgulbzuvbgmugfvtglkbjggBmutgsaugbmufgqrbmgvoogor.uzvorbtgvl 
pzuu kf,gbkgbmugul gbmurzgornuagfvtg.ugakgfsimgbmug uvzuzgbkgbmuf;g.sb
pzuesulbotgulbuzbvrlgbmufgqrbmgfulviuagkpgbmurzgvwwzkvimrlxg uvbm,gkpgbmu
bkzfulbagbmutgvzugbkgasppuz,gkpgbmugwzuwvzvbrklagfvcrlxgrlgkz uzgbkgrb,
kpgbmugfvlxorlxgbmurzgorf.a,gvl gkpgbmugpuvabgbmvbgragbkg.ugfv u,gqmuzu
bmurzgivzivaagragbkg.ugbmugklotg ramjggVoogqmrimgbmutg k,gbkglkgkbmuz
ul ,g.sbgklotgbkguhbkzbgakfugxulbougkzgas.fraarnugqkz gpzkfgbmuf,gkzgbk
pzrxmbulgbmufgakgvagbkgfvcugbmufgzslgvqvt,gbkgk.bvrlgbmragv nvlbvxugbmvb
bmutgquzugbuzzrpru ,gvl gbmvbgbmurzgiklabvlitgqvagamvcul;gvl grl uu ,grp
zrxmbotgbvcul,grbgragrlgbmragwkrlbgklotgbmvbgvgbzsugnribkztgiklaraba:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Nribkzrvglsoovguab,
ggggggggggEsvfgesvugiklpuaakzgvlrfkgeskesugas.ysxvbgmkabuaj”

ggggg[“Lkgnribkztgragikfwoubu,gqmrimgbmugiklesuzu g kglkbgv frbgbkg.u
gggggakj--“Iovs rsa,g ugAuhbkgIklasovbsgMklkzrr,gnjg248j]

BmugMslxvzrvla,gvgnuztgqvzorcugwukwou,glunuzgwzubul gpszbmuzgbmvlgbk
zu siugbmuguluftgbkgbmurzg raizubrkl;gpkzgmvnrlxgpkziu gbmragiklpuaarkl
pzkfgbmuf,gbmutgoubgbmufgxkgqrbmksbgrlysztgkzgzvlakf,guhiuwbrlx,gvbgbmu
fkab,gbkgfvcugbmufgulxvxugbmurzgqkz glunuzgbkg.uvzgvzfagvxvrlabgbmuf
vxvrljggQugmvnugaspprirulbgv nvlbvxuagknuzgkszgulufruagbmvbgvzug.kzzkqu 
vl glkbgbzsotgkszgkql;grbgragbmugesvorbtgkpgvgwkzbuz,gvl glkguppuibgkp
nrzbsu,gbkgmvnugabzklxuzgvzfagvl gouxa;grbgragvg uv gvl gikzwkzuvo
esvorbtgbkgaubgrlgvzzvt;g‘bragvgbszlgkpgpkzbslugbkgfvcugkszguluft
absf.ou,gkzgbkg vddougmrfgqrbmgbmugorxmbgkpgbmugasl;g‘bragvgbzricgkp
airuliugvl gvzb,gvl gbmvbgfvtgmvwwulgrlgvgfuvlg.vaugpuookq,gbkg.ugvgxkk 
puliuzjggBmuguabrfvbugvl gnvosugkpgvgfvlgiklarabgrlgbmugmuvzbgvl grlgbmu
qroo:gbmuzugmragbzsugmklkszgoruajggNvokszgragabv.rorbt,glkbgkpgouxagvl 
vzfa,g.sbgkpgbmugikszvxugvl gbmugakso;grbg kuaglkbgorugrlgbmugxkk luaagkp
kszgmkzaugkzgkszgvzfag.sbgrlgkszgkqljggMugbmvbgpvooagk.abrlvbugrlgmra
ikszvxu--

gggggggggggggggggggg“Argasiir uzrb,g ugxulsgwsxlvb”

gggggggggg[“Rpgmragouxagpvrogmrf,gmugprxmbagklgmragcluuaj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,g ugWzknr ulbrv,gijg2j]

--mugqmk,gpkzgvltg vlxuzgkpgrffrlulbg uvbm,gv.vbuaglkbmrlxgkpgmra
vaaszvliu;gqmk,g trlx,gtubg vzbagvbgmraguluftgvgpruziugvl g ra vrlpso
okkc,gragknuzikfuglkbg.tgsa,g.sbg.tgpkzbslu;gmugragcroou ,glkbgiklesuzu ;
bmugfkabgnvorvlbgvzugakfubrfuagbmugfkabgslpkzbslvbujggBmuzugvzug upuvba
fkzugbzrsfwmvlbgbmvlgnribkzruajggLunuzgikso gbmkaugpkszgarabuzgnribkzrua,
bmugpvrzuabgbmugaslgunuzg.ugmuo ,gkpgAvovfra,gWovbvuv,gFtivou,gvl 
Arirot,gnulbszugbkgkwwkaugvoogbmurzgslrbu gxokzrua,gbkgbmugarlxougxokzt
kpgbmug raikfprbszugkpgCrlxgOuklr vagvl gmragful,gvbgbmugwvaagkp
BmuzfkwtovujggQmkgunuzgzvlgqrbmgvgfkzugxokzrksag uarzugvl gxzuvbuz
vf.rbrkl,gbkgbmugqrllrlx,gbmvlgIvwbvrlgRaikovagbkgbmugiuzbvrlgokaagkpgv
.vbbou?--[ rk kzsagArisosa,ghnjgg64j]--Qmkgikso gmvnugpksl gksbgvgfkzu
as.bougrlnulbrklgbkgauiszugmragavpubt,gbmvlgmug r gbkgvaaszugmra
 uabzsibrkl?ggMugqvagaubgbkg upul gvgiuzbvrlgwvaagkpgWuokwklluasagvxvrlab
bmugVziv rvla,gqmrim,giklar uzrlxgbmuglvbszugkpgbmugwoviugvl gbmu
rluesvorbtgkpgpkziua,gprl rlxgrbgsbbuzotgrfwkaar.ougpkzgmrfgbkg k,gvl 
auurlxgbmvbgvoogqmkgquzugwzuaulbu gbkgbmuguluft,gfsabgiuzbvrlotg.ugoupb
swklgbmugwoviu;gvl gklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gzuwsbrlxgrbgslqkzbmtgkpgmragkql
nrzbsugvl gfvxlvlrfrbtgvl gkpgbmugOviu vufklrvlglvfugbkgpvrogrlgvltgwvzb
kpgmrag sbt,gmugimkaugvgfuvlg.ubqrhbgbmuaugbqkguhbzufuagvpbuzgbmra
fvlluz;gbmugtkslxuabgvl gfkabgvibrnugkpgmragful,gmugwzuauznu gpkzgbmu
auznriugvl g upuliugkpgbmurzgikslbzt,gvl gaulbgbmufg.vic;gvl gqrbmgbmu
zuab,gqmkaugokaagqkso g.ugkpgouaagiklar uzvbrkl,gmugzuakonu gbkgfvcugxkk 
bmugwvaa,gvl gqrbmgbmug uvbmgkpgbmuf,gbkgfvcugbmuguluftg.stgbmurzgulbzt
vag uvzgvagwkaar.otgmugikso ;gvagrbgpuoogksb,gpkzg.urlxgwzuaulbot
ulnrzklu gklgvoogar uag.tgbmugVziv rvla,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugvgxzuvb
aovsxmbuzgkpgbmuguluft,gmugvl gmragquzugvoogisbgrlgwruiuajggRagbmuzugvlt
bzkwmtg u rivbu gbkgbmugiklesuzkzagqmrimgqvaglkbgfsimgfkzug sugbkgbmuau
qmkgquzugknuzikfu?ggBmugwvzbgbmvbgbzsugiklesuzrlxgragbkgwovt,goruagrlgbmu
ulikslbuz,glkbgrlgbmugikfrlxgkpp;gvl gbmugmklkszgkpgnvokszgiklarabagrl
prxmbrlx,glkbgrlgas. srlxj

.sbgbkgzubszlgbkgftgabkzt:gbmuaugwzrakluzagvzugakgpvzgpzkfg raiknuzrlx
bmugouvabgquvcluaa,gpkzgvoogbmugbuzzkzagbmvbgivlg.ugzuwzuaulbu gbkgbmuf,
bmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,g szrlxgbmugbqkgkzgbmzuugfklbmagbmutgvzugcuwb,gbmut
voqvtagvwwuvzgqrbmgvgimuuzpsogikslbulvliu;grfwkzbslugbmurzgfvabuzagbk
fvcugmvabugbkg.zrlxgbmufgbkgbmugbuab,g upt,gzvrogvbgbmuf,gvl gzuwzkvim
bmufgqrbmgikqvz riu,gvl gbmuglsf.uzgkpg.vbbouagbmutgmvnugokabgvxvrlab
bmkaugkpgbmurzgikslbztjggRgmvnugvgaklxgfv ug.tgklugkpgbmuaugwzrakluza,
qmuzurlgmug.r agbmufg“ikfugvoo,gvl g rlugswklgmrf,gvl gquoikfu,gpkzgbmut
amvoogqrbmvoguvbgbmurzgkqlgpvbmuzagvl gxzvl pvbmuza,gqmkaugpouamgmva
auznu gbkgpuu gvl glkszramgmrfjggBmuaugfsaioua,”gavtagmu,g“bmragpouamgvl 
bmuaugnurla,gvzugtkszgkql:gwkkzgarootgaksoagvagtksgvzu,gtksgorbbougbmrlc
bmvbgbmugas.abvliugkpgtkszgvliuabkza’gorf.agragmuzugtub;glkbriugqmvbgtks
uvb,gvl gtksgqroogprl grlgrbgbmugbvabugkpgtkszgkqlgpouam:”grlgqmrimgaklx
bmuzugragbkg.ugk.auznu gvlgrlnulbrklgbmvbglkbmrlxgzuoramuagkpgbmu
.vz.vzrvljggBmkaugbmvbgwvrlbgbmuaugwukwoug trlxgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,
zuwzuaulbgbmugwzrakluzgawrbbrlxgrlgbmugpviuagkpgmraguhuisbrkluzagvl 
fvcrlxgqztgfksbmagvbgbmufjggVl g‘bragfkabgiuzbvrl,gbmvbgbkgbmugnuztgovab
xvaw,gbmutglunuzgiuvaugbkg.zvnugvl g uptgbmufg.kbmgrlgqkz gvl gxuabszuj
Rlgwovrlgbzsbm,gbmuaugfulgvzugnuztgavnvxugrlgikfwvzraklgkpgsa;gkp
luiuaarbt,gbmutgfsabgurbmuzg.ugv.akosbuotgakgkzguoaugqugvzugavnvxua;gpkz
bmuzugragvgnvabg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgbmurzgfvlluzagvl gkszaj

Bmugfulgbmuzugmvnugaunuzvogqrnua,gvl gakgfsimgbmugxzuvbuzglsf.uz,g.tgmkq
fsimgbmutgmvnugbmugxzuvbuzgzuwsbvbrklgpkzgnvokszjggVl grbgragklugnuzt
zufvzcv.ougpuvbszugrlgbmurzgfvzzrvxua,gbmvbgbmugavfugyuvoksatgkszgqrnua
mvnugbkgmrl uzgvl g rnuzbgsagpzkfgbmugpzrul amrwgvl gpvfrorvzrbtgkpgkbmuz
qkful,gbmkaugufwoktgbkgwzkfkbugbmurzgmsa.vl a’g uarzua,gvl gbkgwzkiszu
bmufgfvltgawksaua;gpkzg.urlxgv.knugvoogbmrlxagakorirbksagkpgbmurz
msa.vl a’gmklksz,g‘bragbmurzgimrupuabgivzugbkgauucgksb,gvl gbkg.zrlxgrl
bmugfkabgikfwvlrklagbmutgivl,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragvgbuabrfkltgkpgbmu
msa.vl ’agnrzbsujggFkabgkpgkszgov ruagqroogiztgksb,gbmvbg‘bragfklabzksa;
qmuzuvagrlgbzsbmgrbgraglkbgak,g.sbgvgbzsotgfvbzrfklrvognrzbsu,gvl gkpgbmu
mrxmuabgpkzfjggRlgbmug.r.ou,gAvzvm,gqrbmgOuvmgvl gZvimuo,gbmugbqkgqrnua
kpgYvik.,gxvnugbmugfkabg.uvsbrpsogkpgbmurzgmvl fvr agbkgbmurzgmsa.vl a;
Ornrvgwzupuzzu gbmugwvaarklagkpgVsxsabsagbkgmuzgkqlgrlbuzuab;
--[Asubklrsa,gOrpugkpgVsxsabsa,gijg71j]--vl gbmugqrpugkpgCrlxg urkbvzsa,
Abzvbklriu,g r glkbgklotgxrnugswgvgpvrzgtkslxgfvr gbmvbgauznu gmuzgbkgmuz
msa.vl ’aguf.zviua,g.sbgfkzuknuzgivzupsootg.zksxmbgswgbmugimro zulgmugmv 
.tgmuz,gvl gvaarabu gbmufgrlgbmugasiiuaarklgbkgbmurzgpvbmuz’agizkqlj

Vl gbmvbgrbgfvtglkbg.ugaswwkau ,gbmvbgvoogbmragrag klug.tgvgarfwougvl 
auznrougk.orxvbrklgbkgbmurzgikffklgwzvibriu,gkzg.tgvltgvsbmkzrbvbrnu
rfwzuaarklgkpgbmurzgvlirulbgisabkf,gqrbmksbgys xfulbgkzgzuvaklrlx,gvl 
pzkfgmvnrlxgvgaksogakgabswr gbmvbgrbgivllkbgiklbzrnugqmvbguoaugbkg k,gR
fsabgmuzugxrnugtksgakfugbksimuagkpgbmurzgaspprirulitgrlgwkrlbgkp
sl uzabvl rlxjgg.uar uagqmvbgRgzuwuvbu gbkgtksg.upkzu,gqmrimgqvagklugkp
bmurzgaklxagkpgqvz,gRgmvnugvlkbmuz,gvgoknu-aklx,gbmvbg.uxrlagbmsa:

ggggg“Abvt,gv  uz,gabvt,gbmvbg.tgbmtgwvbbuzlgftgarabuzgfvtg zvqgbmu
gggggpvamrklgvl gqkzcgkpgvgzrimgzr..kl,gbmvbgRgfvtgwzuaulbgbkgftg.uoknu ,
ggggg.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmtg.uvsbtgvl gbmuguhiuooulbgkz uzgkpgbmtgaivoua
gggggamvoogpkzgunuzg.ugwzupuzzu g.upkzugvoogkbmuzgauzwulbaj”

Qmuzurlgbmugprzabgikswoub,g“Abvt,gv  uz,”g&ij,gfvcuagbmug.sz ulgkpgbmu
aklxjggLkqgRgmvnugiklnuzau gulksxmgqrbmgwkubztgbkgys xugbmsagfsimgbmvb
lkbgklotgbmuzugraglkbmrlxg.vz.vzksagrlgbmragrlnulbrkl,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,
bmvbgrbgragwuzpuibotgVlvizuklbrijggBkgqmrimgrbgfvtg.ugv  u ,gbmvbgbmurz
ovlxsvxugragakpb,gkpgvgwouvarlxgviiulb,gvl gakfubmrlxg.kz uzrlxgswklgbmu
Xzuucgbuzfrlvbrklj

Bmzuugkpgbmuaugwukwou,glkbgpkzuauurlxgmkqg uvzgbmurzgclkqou xugkpgbmu
ikzzswbrklagkpgbmragwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gqroogklug vtgikabgbmurzgmvwwrluaa
vl gzuwkau,gvl gbmvbgbmuguppuibgkpgbmragikffuziugqroog.ugbmurzgzsrl,gvagR
wzuaswwkaugrbgragrlgvgnuztgpvrzgqvtg(frauzv.ougfulgbkgasppuzgbmufauonua
bkg.ug uos u gqrbmg uarzugkpglknuobtgvl gbkgmvnugoupbgbmugauzulrbtgkp
bmurzgkqlgmuvnulgbkgikfugakgpvzgbkgxvdugvbgksza!),gquzugvbgZksulgvbgbmu
brfugbmvbgbmugovbugCrlxgImvzouagRHjgqvagbmuzujggBmugcrlxgmrfauopgbvocu 
bkgbmufgvgxkk gqmrou,gvl gbmutgquzugfv ugbkgauugkszgpvamrkla,gkszgwkfw,
vl gbmugpkzfgkpgvgxzuvbgirbtjggVpbuzgqmrim,gakfugklugvacu gbmurzgkwrlrkl,
vl gqkso gclkqgkpgbmuf,gqmvbgkpgvoogbmugbmrlxagbmutgmv gauul,gbmutgpksl 
fkabgbkg.ugv frzu ?ggBkgqmrimgbmutgfv ugvlaquz,gbmzuugbmrlxa,gkpgqmrimgR
mvnugpkzxkbbulgbmugbmrz ,gvl gvfgbzks.ou gvbgrb,g.sbgbqkgRgtubgzufuf.uzj
Bmutgavr ,gbmvbgrlgbmugprzabgwoviugbmutgbmksxmbgrbgnuztgabzvlxugbmvbgak
fvltgbvoogful,gquvzrlxg.uvz a,gabzklx,gvl gquoogvzfu ,gqmkgquzugv.ksbgbmu
crlxg(‘bragorcugbmutgfuvlbgbmugAqraagkpgbmugxsvz ),gamkso gas.frbgbkgk.ut
vgimro ,gvl gbmvbgbmutg r glkbgzvbmuzgimkkaugksbgklugvfklxabgbmufauonua
bkgikffvl jggAuikl otg(bmutgmvnugvgqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgrlgbmurzgovlxsvxugbk
ivoogfulgbmugmvopgkpgklugvlkbmuz),gbmvbgbmutgmv gk.auznu gbmvbgbmuzugquzu
vfklxabgsagfulgpsoogvl gizvffu gqrbmgvoogfvlluzgkpgikffk rbrua,gqmroab,
rlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbmurzgmvonuagquzug.uxxrlxgvbgbmurzg kkza,gouvlgvl 
mvop-abvznu gqrbmgmslxuzgvl gwknuzbt;gvl gbmutgbmksxmbgrbgabzvlxugbmvb
bmuaugluiuaarbksagmvonuagquzugv.ougbkgasppuzgakgxzuvbgvlgrluesvorbtgvl 
rlysabriu,gvl gbmvbgbmutg r glkbgbvcugbmugkbmuzag.tgbmugbmzkvba,gkzgaub
przugbkgbmurzgmksauaj

Rgbvocu gbkgklugkpgbmufgvgxzuvbgqmrougbkxubmuz,g.sbgRgmv gakgroogvl
rlbuzwzubuz,gvl gklugqmkgqvagakgwuzwouhu g.tgmragkqlgrxlkzvliugbk
vwwzumul gftgfuvlrlx,gbmvbgRgikso gxubglkbmrlxgksbgkpgmrfgkpgvltgfkfulb:
Vacrlxgmrfgqmvbgv nvlbvxugmugzuvwu gpzkfgbmugaswuzrkzrbtgmugmv gvfklxab
mragkqlgwukwoug(pkzgmugqvagvgivwbvrl,gvl gkszgfvzrluzagivoou gmrfgcrlx),
mugbko gfu,gbkgfvzimgvbgbmugmuv gkpgbmufgbkgqvzjgg ufvl rlxgkpgmrf
pszbmuzgmkqgfvltgfulgmugmv gbkgpkookqgmrf,gmugamkqu gfugvgawviugkp
xzksl ,gbkgarxlrptgvagfvltgvagikso gfvzimgrlgasimgvgikfwvaa,gqmrimgfrxmb
.ugpkszgkzgprnugbmksavl gful;gvl gwsbbrlxgbmugesuabrklgbkgmrfgqmubmuzgkz
lkgmragvsbmkzrbtguhwrzu gqrbmgbmugqvz,gmugbko gfugbmragzufvrlu :gbmvb
qmulgmugqulbgbkgnrarbgbmugnroovxuagkpgmrag uwul uliu,gbmutgwovlu gmrf
wvbmagbmzksxmgbmugbmricgkpgbmurzgqkk a,g.tgqmrimgmugfrxmbgwvaagvbgmra
uvaujggVoogbmrag kuaglkbgaksl gnuztgroo,gvl gbmugovabgqvaglkbgvbgvoo
vfraa,gpkzgbmutgquvzglkg.zuuimuaj




IMVWBUZgHHHR

BMVBgVgFVLgRAgAK.UZOTgBKgYS XUgKPgBMUg RNRLUgKZ RLVLIUA

Bmugbzsugpruo gvl gas.yuibgkpgrfwkabszugvzugbmrlxagslclkql,gpkzvafsimgva,
rlgbmugprzabgwoviu,gbmurzgnuztgabzvlxuluaagoul agbmufgizu rb,gvl 
fkzuknuz,g.tglkbg.urlxgas.yuibu gbkgkszgkz rlvztgzuvakla,gbmutg uwzrnugsa
kpgbmugfuvlagbkgesuabrklgvl g rawsbugbmuf:gPkzgqmrimgzuvakl,gavtagWovbk,
--[RlgIzrbrvaj]--rbgragfsimgfkzuguvatgbkgavbraptgbmugmuvzuza,gqmul
awuvcrlxgkpgbmuglvbszugkpgbmugxk agbmvlgkpgbmuglvbszugkpgful,g.uivsaugbmu
rxlkzvliugkpgbmugvs rbkztgvppkz agvgpvrzgvl govzxugivzuuzgvl gvoogfvlluz
kpgor.uzbtgrlgbmugmvl orlxgkpgv.abzsaugbmrlxajggBmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaa,
bmvbglkbmrlxgragakgprzfotg.uorunu ,gvagqmvbgqugouvabgclkq;glkzgvltgwukwou
akgiklpr ulb,gvagbmkaugqmkgulbuzbvrlgsagqrbmgpv.oua,gasimgvagtksz
voimufraba,gys rirvogvabzkokxuza,gpkzbslu-buoouza,gvl gwmtarirvla,

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“R gxulsagkfluj”

gggggggggg[“Voogbmvbgakzbgkpgwukwouj”--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg2,g2j]

BkgqmrimgRgqkso gqroorlxot,grpgRg szab,gykrlgvgwvicgkpgwukwougbmvbgbvcu
swklgbmufgbkgrlbuzwzubgvl giklbzkogbmug uarxlagkpgXk gMrfauop,gwzubul rlx
bkgprl gksbgbmugivsaugkpgunuztgviir ulb,gvl gbkgwztgrlbkgbmugauizubagkp
bmug rnrlugqroo,gbmuzugbkg raiknuzgbmugrlikfwzumular.ougfkbrnu,gkpgMra
qkzca;gvl gvobmksxmgbmugnvzrubt,gvl gbmugiklbrlsvog raikz vliugkpgunulba,
bmzkqgbmufgpzkfgikzluzgbkgikzluz,gvl gbkaagbmufgpzkfguvabgbkgquab,gtubg k
bmutgabroogwuzarabgrlgbmurzgnvrlgrlesrarbrkl,gvl gqrbmgbmugavfugwulirogbk
wvrlbg.ovicgvl gqmrbuj

RlgvglvbrklgkpgbmugRl rua,gbmuzugragbmragikfful v.ougisabkf,gbmvbgqmul
vltbmrlxg.upvooagbmufgvfraagrlgvltgulikslbuzgkzg.vbbou,gbmutgws.oriotgvac
wvz klgkpgbmugasl,gqmkgragbmurzgxk ,gvagmvnrlxgikffrbbu gvlgslysab
vibrkl,gvoqvtagrfwsbrlxgbmurzgxkk gkzgunrogpkzbslugbkgbmug rnrlugysabriu,
vl gbkgbmvbgas.frbbrlxgbmurzgkqlgys xfulbgvl gzuvakljgg‘Bragulksxmgpkzgv
Imzrabrvlgbkg.uorunugbmvbgvoogbmrlxagikfugpzkfgXk ,gbkgzuiurnugbmufgqrbm
viclkqou xfulbgkpgMrag rnrlugvl grlaizsbv.ougqra kf,gvl gvoakgbmvlcpsoot
bkgviiuwbgvl gzuiurnugbmuf,gqrbmgqmvbgpviugakunuzgbmutgfvtgwzuaulb
bmufauonuajgg.sbgRg kglkbgvwwzknugkpgqmvbgRgauugrlgsau,gbmvbgra,gbkgauuc
bkgvpprzfgvl gaswwkzbgkszgzuorxrklg.tgbmugwzkawuzrbtgkpgkszgulbuzwzrauaj
Kszg.uorupgmvagkbmuzgpksl vbrklgulksxm,gqrbmksbgxkrlxgv.ksbgbkgvsbmkzrau
rbg.tgunulba:gpkzgbmugwukwoug.urlxgviisabkfu gbkgasimgwovsar.ougvzxsfulba
vagbmuaugvl gakgwzkwuzgbkgbmurzgbvabu,grbgragbkg.ugpuvzu ,gouabgqmulgbmut
pvrogkpgasiiuaagbmutgamkso gvoakgabvxxuzgrlgbmurzgpvrbm:gvagrlgbmugqvz
qmuzurlgqugvzuglkqgulxvxu gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgzuorxrkl,gbmkaugqmkgmv 
bmug.ubbuzgrlgbmug.sarluaagkpgZkimuov.uroou,--[Fvtg1569j]--fvcrlxgxzuvb
.zvxagkpgbmvbgasiiuaagvagvlgrlpvoor.ougvwwzk.vbrklgkpgbmurzgivsau,gqmul
bmutgivfugvpbuzqvz agbkguhisaugbmurzgfrapkzbsluagkpgFkliklbkszgvl 
Yvzlvi,g.tgavtrlxgbmutgquzugpvbmuzotgaikszxuagvl gikzzuibrklagbmvbgbmut
mv glkbgvgwukwougqmkootgvbgbmurzgfuzit,gbmutgfvcugrbgfvlrpuabotgulksxm
vwwuvz,gqmvbgrbgragbkgbvcugbqkgakzbagkpgxzrabgksbgkpgbmugavfugavic,gvl 
qrbmgbmugavfugfksbmgbkg.okqgmkbgvl giko jggRbgquzug.ubbuzgbkgwkaauaagbmu
nsoxvzgqrbmgbmugakor gvl gzuvogpksl vbrklagkpgbzsbmjgg‘Bqvagvgprluglvnvo
.vbbougbmvbgqvagxvrlu gsl uzgbmugikffvl gkpg klgYkmlgkpgVsabzrvgvgpuq
fklbmagarliu--[BmvbgkpgOuwvlbk,gKibk.uzg7,g1571j]--vxvrlabgbmugBszca;
.sbgrbgmvagvoakgwouvau gXk gvbgkbmuzgbrfuagbkgoubgsagauugvagxzuvb
nribkzruagvbgkszgkqlguhwulaujggRlgprlu,g‘bragvgmvz gfvbbuzgbkgzu siu
 rnrlugbmrlxagbkgkszg.vovliu,gqrbmksbgqvabugvl gokarlxgvgxzuvbg uvogkp
bmugqurxmbjggVl gqmkgqkso gbvcugswklgmrfgbkgxrnugvgzuvaklgbmvbgVzrsagvl 
mragWkwugOuk,gbmugwzrlirwvogmuv agkpgbmugVzrvlgmuzuat,gamkso g ru,gvb
aunuzvogbrfua,gkpgakgorcugvl gabzvlxug uvbmag(pkzg.urlxgqrbm zvqlgpzkf
bmug rawsbvbrklg.tgvgxzrwrlxgrlgbmug.kquoa,gbmutg.kbmgkpgbmufgas  ulot
xvnugswgbmugxmkabgswklgbmugabkko),gvl gqkso gvxxzvnvbugbmrag rnrlu
nulxuvliug.tgbmugirzisfabvliuagkpgbmugwoviu,gfrxmbgvagquoogv  gbmug uvbm
kpgMuorkxv.vosa,gqmkgqvagvoakgaovrlgrlgvgmksaugkpgkppriujggVl ,grl uu ,
Rzulvusagqvagrlnkonu grlgbmugavfugpkzbslujggXk ,g.urlxgwouvau gbkgamkq
sa,gbmvbgbmugxkk gmvnugakfubmrlxguoaugbkgmkwugpkzgvl gbmugqricu 
akfubmrlxguoaugbkgpuvz,gbmvlgbmugpkzbsluagkzgfrapkzbsluagkpgbmragqkzo ,
fvlvxuagvl gvwworuagbmuaugviikz rlxgbkgMragkqlgkiisobgqroogvl gwouvaszu,
vl g uwzrnuagsagkpgbmugfuvlagpkkoramotgbkgfvcugbmuzukpgkszgkqlgwzkprbj
Vl gbmkaugwukwougv.saugbmufauonuagqmkgqroogwzubul gbkg rnugrlbkgbmuau
ftabuzruag.tgbmugabzulxbmgkpgmsfvlgzuvakljggBmutglunuzgxrnugklugmrbgbmvb
bmutg kglkbgzuiurnugbqkgpkzgrb;gkpgqmrimgAbjgVsxsabrlugfvcuagksbgvgxzuvb
wzkkpgswklgmragv nuzavzruajgg‘Bragvgiklporibgbmvbgragfkzug uir u g.t
abzulxbmgkpgfufkztgbmvlg.tgbmugpkziugkpgzuvakljggQugvzugbkgiklbulb
kszauonuagqrbmgbmugorxmbgrbgwouvauagbmugaslgbkgikffslrivbugbkgsa,g.t
nrzbsugkpgmragzvta;gvl gqmkgqroogorpbgswgmragutuagbkgbvcugrlgvgxzuvbuz,
oubgmrfglkbgbmrlcgrbgabzvlxu,grpgpkzgbmugzuqvz gkpgmragwzuasfwbrkl,gmu
bmuzugokaugmragarxmbj

ggggggggggggggg“Esragmkfrlsfgwkbuabgairzugiklarorsfg ur?
gggggggggggggggVsbgesragwkbuzrbgikxrbvzugesr gnuorbg kfrlsa?”

ggggg[“QmkgkpgfulgivlgclkqgbmugikslauogkpgXk ?gkzgqmkgivlgbmrlcgqmvbgbmu
gggggqroogkpgbmugOkz graj”--.kkcgkpgQra kf,grhjg13j]




IMVWBUZgHHHRR

BMVBgQUgVZUgBKgVNKR gWOUVASZUA,gUNULgVBgBMUgUHWULAUgKPgORPU

Rgmv goklxgvxkgk.auznu gfkabgkpgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmugvlirulbagbkgikliszgrl
bmra,gbmvbgrbgragmrxmgbrfugbkg rugqmulgbmuzugragfkzugroogbmvlgxkk grl
ornrlx,gvl gbmvbgbkgwzuauznugorpugbkgkszgkqlgbkzfulbgvl grliklnulruliugra
iklbzvztgbkgbmugnuztgzsouagkpglvbszu,gvagbmuaugko govqagrlabzsibgsaj

ggggg[“Urbmuzgbzvlesrogorpu,gkzgmvwwtg uvbmjggRbgragquoogbkg rugqmulgorpu
gggggragquvzrakfujggRbgrag.ubbuzgbkg rugbmvlgbkgornugfrauzv.ouj”
gggggg--Abk.vusa,gAuzfjghhj]

.sbgbkgwsamgbmragiklbufwbgkpg uvbmgakgpvzgvagbkgufwoktgrbgbkgbmugzufknrlx
kszgbmksxmbagpzkfgbmugmklksza,gzrimua,g rxlrbrua,gvl gkbmuzgpvnkszagvl 
xkk a,gvagqugivoogbmuf,gkpgpkzbslu,gvagrpgzuvaklgquzuglkbgaspprirulbgbk
wuzasv ugsagbkgvnkr gbmuf,gqrbmksbgv  rlxgbmragluqgrlyslibrkl,gRgmv 
lunuzgauulgrbgurbmuzgikffvl u gkzgwzvibrau ,gbroogbmragwvaavxugkpgAuluiv
puoogrlbkgftgmvl a;gqmkgv nrarlxgOsirorsa,gvgfvlgkpgxzuvbgwkquzgvl 
vsbmkzrbtgv.ksbgbmugufwuzkz,gbkgvobuzgmragnkoswbsksagvl gfvxlrpriulbgqvt
kpgornrlx,gvl gbkgzubrzugmrfauopgpzkfgbmragqkzo otgnvlrbtgvl gvf.rbrkl,
bkgakfugakorbvzt,gesrub,gvl gwmrokakwmrivogorpu,gvl gbmugkbmuzgvoouxrlx
akfug rpprisobrua:g“Rgvfgkpgkwrlrkl,”gavtagmu,g“urbmuzgbmvbgbmksgouvnu
bmvbgorpugkpgbmrlu,gkzgorpugrbauop;gRgqkso ,grl uu ,gv nraugbmuugbkgbmu
xulbougqvt,gvl gbkgslbru,gzvbmuzgbmvlgbkg.zuvc,gbmugclkbgbmksgmvab
rl raizuubotgclrb,gwzknr u ,gbmvbgrpgrbg.uglkbgkbmuzqraugbkg.ugslbru ,
bmksgzuakosbuotg.zuvcgrbjggBmuzugraglkgfvlgakgxzuvbgvgikqvz ,gbmvbgmv 
lkbgzvbmuzgkliugpvoogbmvlgbkg.ugvoqvtagpvoorlxj”ggRgamkso gmvnugpksl 
bmragikslauogiklpkzfv.ougulksxmgbkgbmugAbkrivogzksxmluaa:g.sbgrbgvwwuvza
bmugfkzugabzvlxu,gpkzg.urlxg.kzzkqu gpzkfgUwriszsa,gqmkgqzrbuagbmugavfu
bmrlxgswklgbmugorcugkiivarklgbkgR kfulusajggVl gRgbmrlcgRgmvnugk.auznu 
akfubmrlxgorcugrb,g.sbgqrbmgImzrabrvlgfk uzvbrkl,gvfklxabgkszgkqlgwukwouj

AbjgMrovzt,g.ramkwgkpgWkribruza,gbmvbgpvfksaguluftgkpgbmugVzrvlgmuzuat,
.urlxgrlgAtzrv,gmv grlbuoorxuliugbmrbmuzgaulbgmrf,gbmvbgV.zv,gmragklot
 vsxmbuz,gqmkfgmugoupbgvbgmkfugsl uzgbmugutugvl gbsrbrklgkpgmuzgfkbmuz,
qvagaksxmbgrlgfvzzrvxug.tgbmugxzuvbuabglk.oufulgkpgbmugikslbzt,gvag.urlx
vgnrzxrlgnrzbsksaotg.zksxmbgsw,gpvrz,gzrim,gvl grlgbmugpokquzgkpgmuzgvxu;
qmuzuswklgmugqzkbugbkgmuzg(vagvwwuvzagswklgzuikz ),gbmvbgamugamkso 
zufknugmuzgvppuibrklgpzkfgvoogbmugwouvaszuagvl gv nvlbvxuagwzkwkau gbk
muz;gpkzgbmvbgmugmv grlgmragbzvnuoagpksl gksbgvgfsimgxzuvbuzgvl gfkzu
qkzbmtgpkzbslugpkzgmuz,gvgmsa.vl gkpgfsimgxzuvbuzgwkquzgvl gfvxlrpriuliu,
qmkgqkso gwzuaulbgmuzgqrbmgzk.uagvl gyuquoagkpgrluabrfv.ougnvosu;gqmuzurl
mrag uarxlgqvagbkg rawkaauaagmuzgkpgbmugvwwubrbugvl gsaugkpgqkzo ot
 uorxmba,gbkgykrlgmuzgqmkootgbkgXk ;g.sbgbmugluvzuabgvl gfkabgiuzbvrlgqvt
bkgbmra,g.urlx,gvagmugikliurnu ,gbmug uvbmgkpgmrag vsxmbuz;gmuglunuz
iuvau ,g.tgnkqa,gwzvtuza,gvl gkzrakla,gbkg.uxgkpgbmugVofrxmbt,gbmvbgMu
qkso gwouvaugbkgivoogmuzgksbgkpgbmragqkzo ,gvl gbkgbvcugmuzgbkgMrfauop;
vagviikz rlxotgrbgivfugbkgwvaa;gpkzgakklgvpbuzgmragzubszl,gamug ru ,gvb
qmrimgmuguhwzuaau gvgarlxsovzgyktjggBmragauufagbkgksb kgbmugkbmuz,
pkzvafsimgvagmugvwworuagmrfauopgbkgbmragfuvlagvbgbmugksbaub,gqmrimgbmut
klotgbvcugas.ar rvzrot;gvl ,g.uar ua,grbgqvagbkqvz agmragklotg vsxmbuzj
.sbgRgqrooglkbgkfrbgbmugovbbuzgul gkpgbmragabkzt,gbmksxmgrbg.ugpkzgft
wszwkau;gAbjgMrovzt’agqrpu,gmvnrlxgsl uzabkk gpzkfgmrfgmkqgbmug uvbmgkp
bmurzg vsxmbuzgqvag.zksxmbgv.ksbg.tgmrag uarzugvl g uarxl,gvl gmkqgfsim
mvwwruzgamugqvagbkg.ugzufknu gksbgkpgbmragqkzo gbmvlgbkgmvnugabvtu grl
rb,gikliurnu gakgnrnr gvlgvwwzumularklgkpgbmugubuzlvogvl gmuvnulot
.uvbrbs u,gbmvbgamug.uxxu gkpgmuzgmsa.vl ,gqrbmgbmuguhbzufuab
rfwkzbslrbt,gbkg kgvagfsimgpkzgmuz;gvl gXk ,gvbgbmurzgykrlbgzuesuab,
amkzbotgvpbuzgivoorlxgmuzgbkgMrf,grbgqvagvg uvbmguf.zviu gqrbmgarlxsovz
vl gfsbsvogiklbulbj




IMVWBUZgHHHRRR

BMVBgPKZBSLUgRAgKPBULBRFUAgK.AUZNU gBKgVIBg.TgBMUgZSOUgKPgZUVAKL

Bmugrliklabvlitgvl gnvzrksagfkbrklagkpgPkzbslu

ggggg[BmugbuzfgPkzbslu,gakgkpbulgufwoktu g.tgFklbvrxlu,gvl grlgwvaavxua
gggggqmuzugmugfrxmbgmvnugsau gWzknr uliu,gqvagiulaszu g.tgbmug kibkzagqmk
ggggguhvfrlu gmragUaavtagqmulgmugqvagvbgZkfugrlg1581jggAuugmragBzvnuoa,
gggggrjg35gvl g76j]

fvtgzuvaklv.otgfvcugsaguhwuibgamugamkso gwzuaulbgsagqrbmgvoogakzbagkp
pviuajggIvlgbmuzug.ugvgfkzuguhwzuaagvibgkpgysabriugbmvlgbmra?ggBmug sig u
Nvoulbrlkra,--[Ivuavzg.kzxrvj]--mvnrlxgzuakonu gbkgwkraklgV zrvl,
Ivz rlvogkpgIkzlubk,gqrbmgqmkfgWkwugVouhvl uzgNRj,gmragpvbmuzgvl 
mrfauop,gquzugbkgaswgrlgbmugNvbrivl,gmugaulbg.upkzugvg.kbbougkpgwkraklu 
qrlu,gvl gqrbmvo,gabzribgkz uzgbkgbmug.sbouzgbkgcuuwgrbgnuztgavpuj
BmugWkwug.urlxgikfug.upkzugmragakl,gvl givoorlxgpkzg zrlc,gbmug.sbouz
aswwkarlxgbmragqrlugmv glkbg.uulgakgabzribotgzuikfful u gbkgmragivzu,
.sbgklotgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgrbaguhiuooulit,gwzuaulbu grbgpkzbmqrbmgbk
bmugWkwu,gvl gbmug scugmrfauopgikfrlxgrlgwzuaulbotgvpbuz,gvl g.urlx
iklpr ulbgbmutgmv glkbgfu  ou gqrbmgmrag.kbbou,gbkkcgvoakgmragisw;gak
bmvbgbmugpvbmuzg ru grffu rvbuotgswklgbmugawkb--[Kbmuzgmrabkzrvlagvaarxl
bmugWkwugaunuzvog vtagkpgfrauztgwzrkzgbkg uvbmjgg jQj]--,gvl gbmugakl,
vpbuzgmvnrlxg.uulgoklxgbkzfulbu gqrbmgaricluaa,gqvagzuauznu gbkgvlkbmuz
vl gvgqkzaugpkzbsluj

Akfubrfuagamugauufagbkgwovtgswklgsa,gysabgrlgbmuglricgkpgvlgvppvrz;
Fklaruszg ’Uabzuua,gvbgbmvbgbrfugularxlgbkgFklaruszg ugNul kfu,gvl 
Fklaruszg ugOriesua,gorusbulvlbgrlgbmugikfwvltgkpgbmug sig ’Vaikb,g.urlx
.kbmgwzubul uzagbkgbmugAruszg ugPksxsuauooua’garabuz,gbmksxmgkpgaunuzvo
wvzbruag(vagrbgkpbgpvooagksbgvfklxabgpzklbruzglurxm.ksza),gbmugAruszg u
Oriesuagivzzru gmuz;g.sbgklgbmugavfug vtgmugqvagfvzzru ,gvl gqmrimgqva
qkzau,g.upkzugmugqulbgbkg.u gbkgmragqrpu,gbmug.zr uxzkkfgmvnrlxgvgfrl gbk
.zuvcgvgovliugrlgmklkszgkpgmragluqg.zr u,gqulbgksbgbkgacrzframgluvzgAbj
Kfuz,gqmuzugbmugAruszg ’Uabzuuagwzknrlxgbmugabzklxuz,gbkkcgmrfgwzrakluz,
vl gbmugfkzugbkgroosabzvbugmragnribkzt,gbmugov tgqvagpvrl--

gggggggggggggg“Iklysxragvlbugikvibvglknrg rfrbbuzugikoosf,
gggggggggggggggEsvfgnulrulagslvgvbesugvobuzvgzszasagmtufa
gggggggggggggggLkibr.sagrlgoklxragvnr sfgavbszvaaubgvfkzuf,”

ggggg[“Ikfwuoou gbkgv.abvrlgpzkfguf.zvirlxgmuzgluqgawksaugrlgmuzgvzfa
ggggg.upkzugbqkgqrlbuzagwvaagrlgasiiuaarkl,g szrlxgbmurzgoklxglrxmbagmv 
gggggavbrvbu gmuzguvxuzgoknuj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjgg81j]

--bkgzuesuabgmrfgkpgikszbuat,gbkg uornuzgswgmragwzrakluzgbkgmuz,gvagmu
viikz rlxotg r ,gbmugxulboufulgkpgPzvliuglunuzg ultrlxgvltbmrlxgbk
ov ruaj

 kuagamuglkbgauufgbkg.ugvlgvzbrabgmuzu?ggIklabvlbrlu,gaklgkpgMuoulv,
pksl u gbmugufwrzugkpgIklabvlbrlkwou,gvl gakgfvltgvxuagvpbuz,
Iklabvlbrlu,gbmugaklgkpgMuoul,gwsbgvlgul gbkgrbjggAkfubrfuagamugra
wouvau gbkgufsovbugkszgfrzviouagqugvzugbko ,gbmvbgCrlxgIoknrag.uaruxrlx
Vlxksoufu,gbmugqvooagpuoog kqlgkpgbmufauonuag.tg rnrlugpvnkszgvl g.ksimub
mvagrbgpzkfgakfugvsbmkz,gbmvbgCrlxgZk.uzbgmvnrlxgavbg kqlg.upkzugvgirbt,
vl g.urlxgabkoulgvqvtgpzkfgbmugaruxugbkgxkgcuuwgbmugpuvabgkpgAbjgVrxlvl
vbgKzouvla,gvagmugqvagrlg unkbrklgvbgvgiuzbvrlgwvzbgkpgbmugFvaa,gbmu
qvooagkpgbmug.uouvxsuzu girbt,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgnrkouliu,gpuoog kql
qrbmgvgas  ulgzsrljgg.sbgamug r gesrbugiklbzvztgrlgkszgFrovlgqvza;gpkz,
ougIvwrbvrlugZulaugovtrlxgaruxugpkzgsagbkgbmugirbtgVzklv,gvl gmvnrlx
ivzzru gvgfrlugsl uzgvgxzuvbgwvzbgkpgbmugqvoo,gbmugfrlug.urlxgawzslx,gbmu
qvoogqvagorpbu gpzkfgrbag.vau,g.sbg zkwwu g kqlgvxvrlglunuzbmuouaa,gqmkou
vl gulbrzu,gvl gakguhvibotgswklgrbagpksl vbrkl,gbmvbgbmug.uaruxu 
asppuzu glkgrliklnulruliug.tgbmvbgvbbufwbj

AkfubrfuagamugwovtagbmugwmtarirvljggYvaklgkpgWmuzuag.urlxgxrnulgknuzg.t
bmugwmtarirvla,g.tgzuvaklgkpgvlgrfwkabmsfugrlgmrag.zuvab,gmvnrlxgvgfrl 
bkgzr gmrfauopgkpgmragwvrl,g.tg uvbmgvbgouvab,gbmzuqgmrfauopgrlgvg.vbbou
 uawuzvbuotgrlbkgbmugbmricuabgkpgbmuguluft,gqmuzugmugqvagakgpkzbslvbuot
qksl u gesrbugbmzksxmgbmug.k t,gbmvbgbmugrfwkabmsfug.zkcu,gvl gmugqva
wuzpuibotgiszu jgg r gamuglkbgvoakguhiuogbmugwvrlbuzgWzkbkxuluagrlgmra
vzb?gqmkgmvnrlxgprlramu gbmugwribszugkpgvg kxgesrbugbrzu gvl gksbgkp
.zuvbm,grlgvoogbmugkbmuzgwvzbaguhiuooulbotgquoogbkgmragkqlgorcrlx,g.sb
lkbg.urlxgv.ougbkguhwzuaa,gvagmugqkso ,gbmugaovnuzgvl gpkvfgbmvbgamkso 
ikfugksbgkpgrbagfksbm,gnuhu gvl gvlxztgvbgmragqkzc,gmugbkkcgmragawklxu,
qmrimg.tgiouvlrlxgmragwuliroagmv grf.r.u gaunuzvogakzbagkpgikoksza,gvl 
bmzuqgrbgrlgvgzvxugvxvrlabgbmugwribszu,gqrbmgvlgrlbulbgsbbuzotgbkg upviu
rb;gqmulgpkzbslugxsr rlxgbmugawklxugbkgmrbgysabgswklgbmugfksbmgkpgbmu
 kx,grbgbmuzugwuzpkzfu gqmvbgvoogmragvzbgqvaglkbgv.ougbkg kjgg kuagamu
lkbgakfubrfuag rzuibgkszgikslauoagvl gikzzuibgbmuf?ggRav.uo,gEsuulgkp
Ulxovl ,gmvnrlxgbkgavrogpzkfgDuvovl grlbkgmuzgkqlgcrlx kf,--[rlg1326]--
qrbmgvlgvzft,grlgpvnkszgkpgmuzgaklgvxvrlabgmuzgmsa.vl ,gmv g.uulgokab,
mv gamugikfugrlbkgbmugwkzbgamugrlbul u ,g.urlxgbmuzugovr gqvrbgpkzg.tgbmu
uluft;g.sbgpkzbslu,gvxvrlabgmuzgqroo,gbmzuqgmuzgrlbkgvlkbmuzgmvnul,gqmuzu
amugovl u grlgavpubtjggVl gbmvbgfvlgkpgko gqmk,gbmzkqrlxgvgabklugvbgv
 kx,gmrbgvl gcroou gmragfkbmuz-rl-ovq,gmv gmuglkbgzuvaklgbkgwzklksliu
bmragnuzau:

gggggggggg[“Pkzbslugmvagfkzugys xufulbgbmvlgquj”--Fulvl uz]

Riubuagmv giklbzvibu gqrbmgbqkgako ruzagbkgcroogBrfkouklgvbgV zvlvgrl
Arirotj--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgBrfkoukl,gijg7j]--Bmutgbkkcgbmurzgbrfugbkg k
rbgqmulgmugqvagvaarabrlxgvbgvgavizrpriu,gvl gbmzsabrlxgrlbkgbmugizkq ,
vagbmutgquzugfvcrlxgarxlagbkgklugvlkbmuz,gbmvbglkqgqvagvgprbgbrfugbkg k
bmurzg.sarluaa,grlgabuwagvgbmrz ,gqmk,gqrbmgvgaqkz gbvcuagklugkpgbmuf
psoog zrnugknuzgbmugwvbu,govtagmrfg uv gswklgbmugwoviugvl gzslagvqvt,
qmrimgbmugkbmuzagauu,gvl giklios rlxgmrfauopg raiknuzu gvl gokab,gzslagbk
bmugvobvzgvl g.uxagpkzgfuzit,gwzkfrarlxgbkg raiknuzgbmugqmkougbzsbm,
qmrimgvagmugqvag krlx,gvl govtrlxgkwulgbmugpsoogiklawrzvit,g.umko gbmu
bmrz gfvl,gqmkg.urlxgvwwzumul u ,gqva,gvagvgfsz uzuz,gbmzsabgvl gmvsou 
.tgbmugwukwougbmzksxmgbmugwzuaa,gbkqvz agBrfkoukl,gvl gbmugkbmuzgfkab
ufrlulbgwuzaklagkpgbmugvaauf.ot,g.upkzugqmkfg.urlxg.zksxmb,gmugizruagksb
pkzgwvz kl,gwouv rlxgbmvbgmugmv gysabotgaovrlgmragpvbmuz’agfsz uzuz;
qmrimgmu,gvoak,gwzknrlxgswklgbmugawkb,g.tgaspprirulbgqrbluaaua,gqmkfgmra
xkk gpkzbslugnuztgkwwkzbsluotgaswworu gmrfgqrbmvo,gbmvbgmragpvbmuzgqva
zuvootgcroou grlgbmugirbtgkpgOuklbrlr,g.tgbmvbgnuztgfvlgklgqmkfgmugmv 
bvculgmragzunulxu,gmugqvagwzuaulbotgvqvz u gbulgVbbrigfrlvu,gpkzgmvnrlx
mv gbmugxkk gpkzbslu,g.tg uarxlrlxgbkgzunulxugbmug uvbmgkpgmragpvbmuz,
bkgwzuauznugbmugorpugkpgbmugikffklgpvbmuzgkpgArirotjggPkzbslu,gbzsot,grl
muzgikl sibgaszwvaauagvoogbmugzsouagkpgmsfvlgwzs uliuj

.sbgbkgiklios u:gragbmuzuglkbgvg rzuibgvwworivbrklgkpgmuzgpvnksz,g.kslbt,
vl gwrubtgfvlrpuabotg raiknuzu grlgbmragvibrkl?ggRxlvbrsagbmugpvbmuzgvl 
Rxlvbrsagbmugaklg.urlxgwzkaizr.u g.tgbmugbzrsfnrzagkpgZkfu,gzuakonu gswkl
bmragxuluzksagvibgkpgfsbsvogcrl luaa,gbkgpvoog.tgbmugmvl agkpgklu
vlkbmuz,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagbkgpzsabzvbugvl g upuvbgbmugizsuobtgkpgbmu
btzvlba;gvl gviikz rlxotgqrbmgbmurzgaqkz ag zvql,gzvlgpsoog zrnugswklgklu
vlkbmuz,gqmuzugpkzbslugakgxsr u gbmugwkrlba,gbmvbgbmutgfv ugbqkguesvoot
fkzbvogqksl a,gvppkz rlxgqrbmvogakgfsimgmklkszgbkgakg.zvnugvgpzrul amrw,
vagbkgouvnugbmufgysabgabzulxbmgulksxmgbkg zvqgksbgbmurzg.okk tgaqkz a,
bmvbgbmutgfrxmbgmvnugor.uzbtgbkguf.zviugklugvlkbmuzgrlgbmrag trlx
ikl rbrkl,gqrbmgakgiokaugvl gmuvzbtgvlguf.zviu,gbmvbgbmuguhuisbrkluzgisb
kppg.kbmgbmurzgmuv agvbgkliu,gouvnrlxgbmug.k ruagabroogpvabgorlcu 
bkxubmuzgrlgbmraglk.oug.kl ,gvl gbmurzgqksl agykrlu gfksbmgbkgfksbm,
vppuibrklvbuotgasicrlxgrlgbmugovabg.okk gvl gzufvrl uzgkpgbmugornuagkp
uvimgkbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHHHRN

KPgKLUg UPUIBgRLgKSZgXKNUZLFULB

Ftgovbugpvbmuz,gvgfvlgbmvbgmv glkgkbmuzgv nvlbvxuagbmvlguhwuzruliugvl 
mragkqlglvbszvogwvzba,gqvaglunuzbmuouaagkpgvgnuztgiouvzgys xfulb,
pkzfuzotgbko gfugbmvbgmugkliugmv gbmksxmbagkpgul uvnkszrlxgbkgrlbzk siu
bmragwzvibriu;gbmvbgbmuzugfrxmbg.ugrlgunuztgirbtgvgiuzbvrlgwoviugvaarxlu 
bkgqmrimgasimgvagabkk grlgluu gkpgvltbmrlxgfrxmbgzuwvrz,gvl gmvnugbmurz
.sarluaagulbuzu g.tgvlgkppriuzgvwwkrlbu gpkzgbmvbgwszwkaujggVagpkz
uhvfwou:gRgqvlbgvgimvwfvlgbkg.stgftgwuvzoa;gRgqvlbgklugbmvbgmvagwuvzoagbk
auoo;gasimgvgklugqvlbagikfwvltgbkgxkgbkgWvzra;gasimgvgklugauucagvgauznvlb
kpgasimgvgesvorbt;gasimgvgklugvgfvabuz;gasimgvgklugasimgvlgvzbrpriuz;
akfugrlesrzrlxgpkzgklugbmrlx,gakfugpkzgvlkbmuz,gunuztgklugviikz rlxgbk
qmvbgmugqvlbajggVl g ks.bouaa,gbmuaugfsbsvogv nuzbraufulbagqkso g.ugkpglk
iklbufwbr.ougv nvlbvxugbkgbmugws.origikzzuawkl uliugvl grlbuoorxuliu:gpkz
bmuzugvzugunuzfkzugikl rbrklagbmvbgmslbgvpbuzgklugvlkbmuz,gvl gpkzgqvlb
kpgclkqrlxgklugvlkbmuz’agkiivarklagouvnugfulgrlgnuztgxzuvbgluiuaarbtj

Rgmvnugmuvz ,gbkgbmugxzuvbgamvfugkpgbmugvxugqugornugrl,gbmvbgrlgkszgnuzt
arxmbgbqkgfkabguhiuooulbgfulgpkzgouvzlrlxg ru gakgwkkzgbmvbgbmutgmv 
aivziug.zuv gbkgwsbgrlgbmurzgfksbma:gOrorsagXzuxkzrsagXrzvo sagrlgRbvot
vl gAu.vabrvlsagIvabvorkgrlgXuzfvlt:gvl gRg.uorunugbmuzugvzugvgbmksavl 
fulgqkso gmvnugrlnrbu gbmufgrlbkgbmurzgpvfrorua,gqrbmgnuztgv nvlbvxuksa
ikl rbrkla,gkzgmvnugzuorunu gbmufgqmuzugbmutgquzu,gmv gbmutgclkqlgbmurz
qvlbajggBmugqkzo graglkbgakgxuluzvootgikzzswbu ,g.sbgbmvbgRgclkqgvgfvl
bmvbgqkso gmuvzbrotgqramgbmuguabvbugmragvliuabkzagmvnugoupbgmrfgfrxmbg.u
ufwoktu ,gakgoklxgvagrbgamvoogwouvaugpkzbslugbkgxrnugmrfgouvnugbkgulykt
rb,gbkgauiszugzvzugvl gzufvzcv.ougwuzaklagkpgvltgcrl ,gqmkfgfrapkzbslu
akfubrfuagwuzauisbuagbkgbmugovabg uxzuu,gpzkfgbmug vlxuzagkpgluiuaarbt;
vl gvbgouvabgwoviugbmufgrlgasimgvgikl rbrklgbmvbgbmutgfsabg.ugnuztgmvz 
bkgwouvau,grpgbmutgvzuglkbgiklbulbu j

Ftgpvbmuzgrlgmrag kfuabriguiklkftgmv gbmragzsoug(qmrimgRgclkqgmkqgbk
ikfful ,g.sbg.tglkgfuvlagbkgrfrbvbu),glvfuot,gbmvbg.uar uagbmug vt-.kkc
kzgfufkzrvogkpgmksaumko gvppvrza,gqmuzugbmugafvoogviikslba,gwvtfulba,gvl 
 ra.szaufulba,gqmrimg kglkbgzuesrzugvgauizubvzt’agmvl ,gquzugulbuzu ,gvl 
qmrimgvgabuqvz gvoqvtagmv grlgisabk t,gmugkz uzu gmrfgqmkfgmugufwoktu gbk
qzrbugpkzgmrf,gbkgcuuwgvgykszlvo,gvl grlgrbgbkgaubg kqlgvoogbmu
zufvzcv.ougkiiszzuliua,gvl g vrotgfufkzrvoagkpgbmugmrabkztgkpgmragmksau:
nuztgwouvavlbgbkgokkcgknuz,gqmulgbrfug.uxrlagbkgquvzgbmrlxagksbgkp
fufkzt,gvl gnuztgsaupsogakfubrfuagbkgwsbgsagksbgkpg ks.bgqmulgasimgv
bmrlxgqvag.uxsl,gqmulgul u ;gqmvbgnrarbkzagivfu,gvl gqmulgbmutgqulb;gksz
bzvnuoa,gv.auliua,gfvzzrvxua,gvl g uvbma;gbmugzuiuwbrklgkpgxkk gkzgroo
luqa;gbmugimvlxugkpgwzrlirwvogauznvlba,gvl gbmugorcujggVlgvlirulbgisabkf,
qmrimgRgbmrlcgrbgqkso glkbg.ugvfraagpkzgunuztgklugbkgzunrnugrlgmragkql
mksau;gvl gRgprl gRg r gnuztgpkkoramotgrlgluxouibrlxgrbj




IMVWBUZgHHHN

KPgBMUgISABKFgKPgQUVZRLXgIOKBMUA

QmvbunuzgRgamvoogavtgswklgbmragas.yuib,gRgvfgkpgluiuaarbtgbkgrlnv ugakfu
kpgbmug.ksl agkpgisabkf,gakgivzupsogmvagamug.uulgbkgamsbgswgvoogbmu
vnulsuajggRgqvag rawsbrlxgqrbmgftauopgrlgbmragamrnuzrlxgauvakl,gqmubmuz
bmugpvamrklgkpgxkrlxglvcu grlgbmkauglvbrklagovbuotg raiknuzu gragrfwkau 
swklgbmufg.tgbmugmkbgbufwuzvbszugkpgbmugvrz,gvagqugavtgkpgbmugRl rvlagvl 
Fkkza,gkzgqmubmuzgrbg.ugbmugkzrxrlvogpvamrklgkpgfvlcrl jggFulgkp
sl uzabvl rlx,gpkzvafsimgvagvoogbmrlxagsl uzgbmugasl,gvagbmugMkotgQzrb
 uiovzua,gvzugas.yuibgbkgbmugavfugovqa,gquzugqklbgrlgasimgiklar uzvbrkla
vagbmuau,gqmuzugqugvzugbkg rabrlxsramgbmuglvbszvogovqagpzkfgbmkaugqmrim
mvnug.uulgrfwkau g.tgfvl’agrlnulbrkl,gbkgmvnugzuikszaugbkgbmugxuluzvo
wkorbtgkpgbmugqkzo ,gqmuzugbmuzugivlg.uglkbmrlxgikslbuzpurbjggLkq,gvoo
kbmuzgizuvbszuag.urlxgaspprirulbotgpszlramu gqrbmgvoogbmrlxagluiuaavzt
pkzgbmugaswwkzbgkpgbmurzg.urlx--[Fklbvrxlu’aguhwzuaarklgra,g“qrbmgluu ou
vl gbmzuv j”--QjIjMj]--rbgraglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gbmvbgqugklotgvzug.zksxmb
rlbkgbmugqkzo grlgvg upuibrnugvl grl rxulbgikl rbrkl,gvl grlgasimgvgabvbu
vagivllkbgas.arabgqrbmksbguhbuzlvogvr jggBmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgRg.uorunu,
bmvbgvagwovlba,gbzuua,gvl gvlrfvoa,gvl gvoogbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugorpu,gvzu
auulgbkg.ug.tglvbszugaspprirulbotgiokbmu gvl giknuzu ,gbkg upul gbmuf
pzkfgbmugrlyszruagkpgquvbmuz:

ggggggggg“Wzkwbuzuvesugpuzugzuagkfluagvlbgikzrkgaslb,
ggggggggggVsbgaubv,gvlbgiklimra,gvlbgivook,gvlbgikzbriugbuibvu,”

ggggg[“Vl gbmvbgpkzgbmragzuvaklgluvzotgvoogbmrlxagvzugiokbmu gqrbmgacrl,
gggggkzgmvrz,gkzgamuooa,gkzg.vzc,gkzgakfugasimgbmrlxj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grnjg936j]

akgquzugqu:g.sbgvagbmkaugqmkg.tgvzbrprirvogorxmbgwsbgksbgbmvbgkpg vt,gak
qug.tg.kzzkqu gpkzfagvl gpvamrklagmvnug uabzktu gkszgkqljggVl g‘bragwovrl
ulksxmgbkg.ugauul,gbmvbg‘bragisabkfgklotgqmrimgzul uzagbmvbgrfwkaar.ou
bmvbgkbmuzqraugraglkbmrlxgak;gpkzgkpgbmkauglvbrklagqmkgmvnuglkgfvlluzgkp
clkqou xugkpgiokbmrlx,gakfugvzugarbsvbu gsl uzgbmugavfugbufwuzvbszugbmvb
qugvzu,gvl gakfugrlgfsimgiko uzgiorfvbuajggVl g.uar ua,gkszgfkabgbul uz
wvzbagvzugvoqvtaguhwkau gbkgbmugvrz,gvagbmugutua,gfksbm,glkau,gvl guvza;
vl gkszgikslbztgov.kszuza,gorcugkszgvliuabkzagrlgpkzfuzgbrfua,gxkgqrbm
bmurzg.zuvabagvl g.uooruagkwuljggMv gqug.uulg.kzlgqrbmgvgluiuaarbtgswkl
sagkpgquvzrlxgwubbrikvbagvl g.zuuimua,gbmuzugraglkg ks.bg.sbglvbszugqkso 
mvnugpkzbrpru gbmkaugwvzbagamugrlbul u gamkso g.uguhwkau gbkgbmugpsztgkp
bmugauvaklagqrbmgvgbmricuzgacrl,gvagamugmvag klugbmugprlxuz-ul agvl gbmu
akouagkpgbmugpuubjggVl gqmtgamkso gbmragauufgmvz gbkg.uorunu?ggRgk.auznu
fsimgxzuvbuzg rabvliug.ubqrhbgftgmv.rbgvl gbmvbgkpgklugkpgkszgikslbzt
.kkza,gbmvlg.ubqrhbgmragvl gbmvbgkpgvgfvlgqmkgmvaglkgkbmuzgiknuzrlxg.sb
mragacrljggMkqgfvltgful,guawuirvootgrlgBszcut,gxkglvcu gswklgbmugviikslb
kpg unkbrkl?ggAkfugklugvacu gvg.uxxvz,gqmkfgmugavqgrlgmragamrzbgrlgbmu
 uwbmgkpgqrlbuz,gvag.zracgvl gpzkorigvagmugqmkgxkuagfsppou gswgbkgbmu
uvzagrlgpsza,gmkqgmugqvagv.ougbkgul szugbkgxkgak?gg“Qmt,garz,”gmu
vlaquzu ,g“tksgxkgqrbmgtkszgpviug.vzu:gRgvfgvoogpviuj”ggBmugRbvorvlagmvnu
vgabkztgkpgbmug scugkpgPokzuliu’agpkko,gqmkfgmragfvabuzgvacrlxgmkq,g.urlx
akgbmrlotgiov ,gmugqvagv.ougbkgaswwkzbgbmugiko ,gqmulgmugmrfauop,gqvzfot
qzvwwu gswgvagmugqva,gqvagmvz otgv.ougbkg kgrb?gg“Qmt,”gzuworu gbmugpkko,
“saugftgzuiurwbgbkgwsbgklgvoogtkszgiokbmuagtksgmvnugvbgkliu,gvl gtks’oo
puuoglkgfkzugiko gbmvlgRj”ggCrlxgFvaarlraav,gbkgvlguhbzufugko gvxu,gikso 
lunuzg.ugwzunvrou gswklgbkgxkgqrbmgmragmuv giknuzu ,gmkqgiko ,gabkzft,gkz
zvrltgakunuzgbmugquvbmuzgfrxmbg.u;gqmrimgvoakgragzuwkzbu gkpgbmugUfwuzkz
AunuzsajggMuzk kbsagbuooagsa,gbmvbgrlgbmug.vbbouagpksxmbg.ubqrhbgbmu
Uxtwbrvlagvl gbmugWuzarvla,grbgqvagk.auznu g.kbmg.tgmrfauopgvl g.t
kbmuza,gbmvbgkpgbmkaugqmkgquzugoupbg uv gswklgbmugpruo ,gbmugmuv agkpgbmu
Uxtwbrvlagquzugqrbmksbgikfwvzraklgmvz uzgbmvlgbmkaugkpgbmugWuzarvla,g.t
zuvaklgbmvbgbmugovabgmv gxklugqrbmgbmurzgmuv agvoqvtagiknuzu gpzkfgbmurz
rlpvlit,gprzabgqrbmg.rxxrla,gvl gbmulgqrbmgbsz.vla,gvl gbmugkbmuzagvoqvta
amvnu gvl g.vzujggCrlxgVxuarovsagiklbrlsu gbkgvg uizuwrbgvxugbkgquvz
voqvtagbmugavfugiokbmuagrlgqrlbuzgbmvbgmug r grlgasffuzjggIvuavz,gavta
Asubklrsa,gfvzimu gvoqvtagvbgbmugmuv gkpgmragvzft,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgkl
pkkb,gqrbmgmragmuv g.vzu,gqmubmuzgrbgqvagzvrlgkzgaslamrlu,gvl gvagfsimgra
avr gkpgMvllr.vo:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Bsfgnuzbriugls k,
gggggggggggggggUhirwuzugrlavlkagrf.zua,gikuoresugzsrlvfj”

ggggg[“.vzumuv u gmugfvzimu grlgalkq,guhwkau gbkgwkszrlxgzvrlgvl gbmu
gggggsbfkabgzrxkszgkpgbmugquvbmuzj”--ArorsagRbvorisa,grjg250j]

VgNulubrvlgqmkgmvagoklxgornu grlgWuxs,gvl gmvagovbuotgzubszlu gbmuliu,
qzrbuagbmvbgbmugfulgvl gqkfulgkpgbmvbgcrlx kf,gbmksxmgbmutgiknuzgvoo
bmurzgkbmuzgwvzba,gxkgvoqvtag.vzupkkbgvl gzr ugakgbkk;gvl gWovbkgnuzt
uvzluabotgv nrauagpkzgbmugmuvobmgkpgbmugqmkoug.k t,gbkgxrnugbmugmuv gvl 
bmugpuubglkgkbmuzgiokbmrlxgbmvlgqmvbglvbszugmvag.uabkqu jggMugqmkfgbmu
Wkouagmvnuguouibu gpkzgbmurzgcrlx,--[Abuwmulg.vbmkzt]--arliugkszagivfu
bmuliu,gqmkgra,grl uu ,gklugkpgbmugxzuvbuabgwzrliuagkpgbmragvxu,glunuz
quvzagvltgxoknua,gvl grlgqrlbuzgkzgqmvbunuzgquvbmuzgivlgikfu,glunuzgquvza
kbmuzgivwgv.zkv gbmvlgbmvbgmugquvzagvbgmkfujggQmuzuvagRgivllkbgul szugbk
xkgsl.sbbklu gkzgslbru ;gftglurxm.kszrlxgov.kszuzagqkso gbmrlcgbmufauonua
rlgimvrla,grpgbmutgquzugakg.zviu jggNvzzkgragkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgqmulgrbgqva
kz vrlu gqugamkso g.ug.vzugrlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmugxk agvl g.upkzugbmu
fvxrabzvbu,grbgqvagakgkz uzu gzvbmuzgswklgbmugaikzugkpgmuvobm,gvl gbk
rlszugsagbkgbmugrlyszruagkpgquvbmuz,gbmvlgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgzunuzuliu;
vl garliugqugvzuglkqgbvocrlxgkpgiko ,gvl gPzulimfulgsau gbkgquvzgnvzrubt
kpgikokszag(lkbgRgftauop,gpkzgRgauo kfgquvzgkbmuzgbmvlg.ovicgkzgqmrbu,grl
rfrbvbrklgkpgftgpvbmuz),goubgsagv  gvlkbmuzgabkztgksbgkpgOugIvwrbvrlu
Fvzbrlg sg.uoovt,gqmkgvpprzfa,gbmvbgrlgbmugfvzimgbkgOshuf.kszxgmugavqgak
xzuvbgpzkab,gbmvbgbmugfslrbrkl-qrlugqvagisbgqrbmgmvbimubagvl gqu xua,gvl 
 uornuzu gksbgbkgbmugako ruzag.tgqurxmb,gvl gbmvbgbmutgivzzru grbgvqvtgrl
.vacuba:gvl gKnr ,

gggggggggggggg“Ls vesugiklarabslb,gpkzfvfgauznvlbrvgbuabvu,
gggggggggggggggNrlv;gluigmvsabvgfuzr,gau g vbvgpzsabv,g.r.slbj”

ggggg[“Bmugqrlugqmulgksbgkpgbmugivacgzubvrlagbmugpkzfgkpgbmugivac;
gggggvl gragxrnulgksbglkbgrlgiswa,g.sbgrlg.rbaj”
gggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grrrjg10,g23j]

VbgbmugfksbmgkpgOvcugFvukbragbmugpzkabagvzugakgnuztgamvzw,gbmvbgrlgbmu
nuztgavfugwoviugqmuzugFrbmzr vbua’gorusbulvlbgmv gpksxmbgbmuguluft
 ztpkkbgvl gxrnulgbmufgvglkbv.oug upuvb,gbmugasffuzgpkookqrlxgmugk.bvrlu 
knuzgbmufgvglvnvognribkztjggBmugZkfvlagpksxmbgvbgvgnuztgxzuvb
 rav nvlbvxu,grlgbmugulxvxufulbgbmutgmv gqrbmgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvlagluvz
Wrviuldv,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmutgqulbgbkgbmugimvzxugqrbmgbmurzg.okk 
iklxuvou gvl gbmurzgorf.aglsf.u gqrbmgiko ,gqmuzuvagMvllr.vogmv givsau 
xzuvbgprzuagbkg.ug rawuzau gesrbugbmzksxmgmragivfwgbkgqvzfgmragako ruza,
vl gkrogbkg.ug rabzr.sbu gvfklxabgbmuf,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgvlkrlbrlx
bmufauonua,gbmutgfrxmbgzul uzgbmurzgluznuagfkzugaswwougvl gvibrnu,gvl 
pkzbrptgbmugwkzuagvxvrlabgbmugnrkouliugkpgbmugvrzgvl gpzuudrlxgqrl ,
qmrimgzvxu grlgbmvbgauvaklj

BmugzubzuvbgbmugXzuucagfv ugpzkfg.v.toklgrlbkgbmurzgkqlgikslbztgragpvfksa
pkzgbmug rpprisobruagvl givovfrbruagbmutgmv gbkgknuzikfu;gkpgqmrimgbmra
qvagklu,gbmvbg.urlxgulikslbuzu grlgbmugfkslbvrlagkpgVzfulrvgqrbmgv
mkzzr.ougabkzfgkpgalkq,gbmutgokabgvoogclkqou xugkpgbmugikslbztgvl gkpgbmu
qvta,gvl g.urlxg zrnulgsw,gquzugvg vtgvl gvglrxmbgqrbmksbguvbrlxgkz
 zrlcrlx;gfkabgkpgbmurzgivbboug ru ,gfvltgkpgbmufauonuagquzugabvznu gbk
 uvbm,gaunuzvogabzsicg.orl gqrbmgbmugpkziugkpgbmugmvrogvl gbmugxovzugkp
bmugalkq,gfvltgkpgbmufgfvrfu grlgbmurzgprlxuzagvl gbkua,gvl gfvltgabrpp
vl gfkbrklouaagqrbmgbmuguhbzufrbtgkpgbmugiko ,gqmkgmv gtubgbmurz
sl uzabvl rlxgulbrzuj

Vouhvl uzgavqgvglvbrkl,gqmuzugbmutg.sztgbmurzgpzsrb-bzuuagrlgqrlbuzgbk
wzkbuibgbmufgpzkfg.urlxg uabzktu g.tgbmugpzkab,gvl gqugvoakgfvtgauugbmu
avfuj

.sb,gakgpvzgvagiokbmuagxk,gbmugCrlxgkpgFuhrikgimvlxu gpkszgbrfuagvg vt
mragvwwvzuo,gvl glunuzgwsbgrbgklgvxvrl,gufwoktrlxgbmvbgmugoupbgkppgrlgmra
iklbrlsvogor.uzvorbruagvl gzuqvz a;gvl glurbmuzgwkb,g ram,glkzgkbmuz
sbularogkpgmragcrbimulgkzgbv.ougqvagunuzgauznu gbqriuj




IMVWBUZgHHHNR

KPgIVBKgBMUgTKSLXUZ

ggggg[“Rgvfglkbgwkaauaau gqrbmgbmragikffklguzzksz,gbkgys xugkpgkbmuza
gggggviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgRgvfgftgauopujggRgvfguvarugbkg.uouunugbmrlxa
ggggg rppuzrlxgpzkfgftgauopujggBmksxmgRg.ugulxvxu gbkgklugpkzfu,gRg kglkb
gggggbrugbmugqkzo gslbkgrb,gvagunuztgfvlg kbmjggVl gRg.uouunugvl 
gggggikliurnugvgbmksavl gfvlluzagkpgorpu,giklbzvztgbkgbmugikffklgakzbuj”
gggggg--Pokzrk,gu jg1613,gwjg113j]

Rgvfglkbgxsrobtgkpgbmugikffklguzzkzgkpgys xrlxgvlkbmuzg.tgftauopjggR
uvarotg.uorunugbmvbgrlgvlkbmuz’agmsfkszgqmrimgragiklbzvztgbkgftgkql;gvl 
bmksxmgRgprl gftauopgulxvxu gbkgklugiuzbvrlgpkzf,gRg kglkbgk.orxugkbmuza
bkgrb,gvagfvltg k;g.sbg.uorunugvl gvwwzumul gvgbmksavl gqvtagkpgornrlx;
vl ,giklbzvztgbkgfkabgful,gfkzuguvarotgv frbgkpg rppuzuliugbmvl
slrpkzfrbtgvfklxabgsajggRgvagpzvlcotgvagvltgklugqkso gmvnugfu,g raimvzxu
vgfvlgpzkfgftgmsfkszagvl gwzrlirwoua,gvl giklar uzgmrfgviikz rlxgbkgmra
kqlgwvzbrisovzgfk uojggBmksxmgRgvfglkbgiklbrlulbgftauop,gRglunuzbmuouaa
arliuzuotgvwwzknugbmugiklbrluliugkpgbmugPusroovlagvl gIvwsimrla,gvl 
mrxmotgikfful gbmurzgqvtgkpgornrlxjggRgrlarlsvbugftauopg.tgrfvxrlvbrkl
rlbkgbmurzgwoviu,gvl goknugvl gmklkszgbmufgbmugfkzugpkzg.urlxgkbmuzgbmvl
RgvfjggRgnuztgfsimg uarzugbmvbgqugfvtg.ugys xu gunuztgfvlg.tgmrfauop,gvl 
qkso glkbg.ug zvqlgrlbkgbmugiklauesuliugkpgikffklguhvfwouajggFtgkql
quvcluaaglkbmrlxgvobuzagbmuguabuufgRgksxmbgbkgmvnugpkzgbmugpkziugvl 
nrxkszgkpgbmkaugqmkg uauznugrb:

ggggg“Aslbgesrglrmrogasv ulb,gesvfgesk gaugrfrbvzrgwkaaugiklpr slbj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugvzugqmkgwuzasv uglkbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgbmutg.uorunugbmutgivl
gggggrfrbvbugbmufauonuaj”--Iriuzk,g ugKzvbkzj,gijg7j]

Izvqorlxgswklgbmugaorfugkpgbmuguvzbm,gRg kglkbgpkzgvoogbmvbgiuvaugbk
k.auznugswgrlgbmugioks agbmugrlrfrbv.ougmurxmbgkpgakfugmuzkrigaksoaj
‘Bragvgxzuvbg uvogpkzgfugbkgmvnugftgys xfulbgzuxsovzgvl gysab,grpgbmu
uppuibagivllkbg.ugak,gvl gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmragaknuzurxlgwvzb,gvbgouvab,gpzuu
pzkfgikzzswbrkl;g‘bragakfubmrlxgbkgmvnugftgqroogzrxmbgvl gxkk gqmuzugft
ouxagpvrogfujggBmragvxugqmuzurlgqugornu,grlgkszgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gvb
ouvab,gragxzkqlgakgabswr ,gbmvbglkbgklotgbmuguhuzirau,g.sbgbmugnuzt
rfvxrlvbrklgkpgnrzbsugrag upuibrnu,gvl gauufagbkg.uglkgkbmuzg.sbgikoouxu
yvzxkl:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Nrzbsbufgnuz.vgwsbvlb,gsb
gggggggggggggggggOsisfgorxlv:”

ggggg[“Bmutgbmrlcgqkz agnrzbsu,gvagbmutgbmrlcgfuzugqkk gvgavizu gxzknuj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg6,g31j]

gggggggggg“Esvfgnuzuzrg u.uzulb,gubrvfgargwuzirwuzuglklgwkaaulbj”

ggggg[“Qmrimgbmutgksxmbgbkgzunuzuliu,gbmksxmgbmutgivllkbgikfwzumul j”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvaj,gnjg2j]

‘Bragvgxuqxvqgbkgmvlxgrlgvgiv.rlubgkzgvbgbmugul gkpgbmugbklxsu,gvagklgbmu
brwgkpgbmuguvz,gpkzgkzlvfulbgklotjggBmuzugvzuglkgoklxuzgnrzbsksagvibrkla
uhbvlb;gbmkaugvibrklagbmvbgivzztgvgamkqgkpgnrzbsugmvnugtubglkbmrlxgkpgrba
uaauliu;g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgwzkprb,gxokzt,gpuvz,gisabkf,gvl gkbmuzgasimorcu
pkzurxlgivsaua,gwsbgsagklgbmugqvtgbkgwzk siugbmufjggKszgysabriugvoak,
nvoksz,gikszbuat,gfvtg.ugivoou gakgbkk,grlgzuawuibgbkgkbmuzagvl 
viikz rlxgbkgbmugpviugbmutgvwwuvzgqrbmgbkgbmugws.ori;g.sbgrlgbmug kuzgrb
ivlg.tglkgfuvlag.ugnrzbsu,g.uivsaugbmuzugragvlkbmuzgul gwzkwkau ,gvlkbmuz
fknrlxgivsaujggLkqgnrzbsugkqlaglkbmrlxgbkg.ugmuza,g.sbgqmvbgrag klug.t
muzauopgvl gpkzgmuzauopgvokluj

Rlgbmvbgxzuvbg.vbbougkpgWovbvuv,gbmvbgbmugXzuucagsl uzgbmugikffvl gkp
Wvsavlrvagxvrlu gvxvrlabgFvz klrsagvl gbmugWuzarvla,gbmugiklesuzkza,
viikz rlxgbkgbmurzgisabkf,gikfrlxgbkg rnr ugvfklxabgbmufgbmugxokztgkpgbmu
uhwokrb,gvbbzr.sbu gbkgbmugAwvzbvlglvbrklgbmugwzu-ufrluliugkpgnvokszgrl
bmugulxvxufulbjggBmugAwvzbvla,gxzuvbgys xuagkpgnrzbsu,gqmulgbmutgivfugbk
 ubuzfrlugbkgqmvbgwvzbrisovzgfvlgkpgbmurzglvbrklgbmugmklkszgqvag sugkp
mvnrlxgbmug.uabg.umvnu gmrfauopgswklgbmragkiivarkl,gpksl gbmvb
Vzrabk ufsagmv gkpgvoogkbmuzagmvdvz u gmragwuzaklgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuab
.zvnuzt;g.sbg r glkb,gmkqunuz,gvookqgmrfgvltgwzrdu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgmra
nrzbsugmv g.uulgrlirbu g.tgvg uarzugbkgiouvzgmragzuwsbvbrklgpzkfgbmu
zuwzkvimgkpgmragfraivzzrvxugvbgbmug.sarluaagkpgBmuzfkwtovu,gvl gbkg ru
.zvnuotgbkgqrwugkppgbmvbgpkzfuzg.ouframj

Kszgys xfulbagvzugtubgaric,gvl gk.utgbmugmsfkszgkpgkszg uwzvnu gfvlluzaj
Rgk.auznugfkabgkpgbmugqrbagkpgbmuaugbrfuagwzubul gbkgrlxulsrbt,g.t
ul uvnkszrlxgbkg.ouframgvl g vzculgbmugxokztgkpgbmug.zvnuabgvl gfkab
xuluzksagvibrklagkpgpkzfuzgvxua,gwsbbrlxgklugnrougrlbuzwzubvbrklgkz
vlkbmuzgswklgbmuf,gvl gpkzxrlxgvl gaswwkarlxgnvrlgivsauagvl gfkbrnuagpkz
bmuglk.ougbmrlxagbmutg r :gvgfrxmbtgas.boubtgrl uu !ggXrnugfugbmu
xzuvbuabgvl gfkabgsl.ouframu gvibrklgbmvbgunuzgbmug vtg.umuo ,gvl gRgqroo
iklbzrnugvgmsl zu gwovsar.oug zrpbagvl gul agbkgk.aiszugrbjggXk gclkqa,
qmkunuzgqroogabzubimgbmufgksbgbkgbmugpsoo,gqmvbg rnuzarbtgkpgrfvxuagksz
rlbuzlvogqrooagasppuzgsl uzjggBmutg kglkbgakgfvorirksaotgwovtgbmu
iulaszuza,gvagbmutg kgrbgrxlkzvlbotgvl gzs uotgrlgvoogbmurzg ubzvibrklaj

Bmugavfugwvrlagvl goriuliugbmvbgkbmuzagbvcugbkg.ouframgvl g.uawvbbuz
bmuaugroosabzrksaglvfua,gRgqkso gqroorlxotgsl uzxkgbkgoul gbmufgv
amkso uzgbkgzvraugbmufgmrxmuzjggBmuaugzvzugpkzfa,gbmvbgvzugisoou gksbg.t
bmugiklaulbgkpgbmugqrauabgfulgkpgvoogvxua,gpkzgbmugqkzo ’aguhvfwou,
Rgamkso glkbgabricgbkgvsxfulbgrlgmklksz,gvagpvzgvagftgrlnulbrklgqkso 
wuzfrb,grlgvoogbmugirzisfabvliuagkpgpvnkszv.ougrlbuzwzubvbrkl;gvl gqugfvt
quoog.uorunugbmvbgbmugpkziugkpgkszgrlnulbrklgragrlprlrbuotgamkzbgkpgbmurz
fuzrbjgg‘Bragbmug sbtgkpgxkk gfulgbkgwkzbzvtgnrzbsugvag.uvsbrpsogvagbmut
ivl,gvl gbmuzugqkso g.uglkbmrlxgqzklxgamkso gkszgwvaarklgvgorbbou
bzvlawkzbgsagrlgpvnkszgkpgakgavizu gvgpkzfjggQmvbgbmuaugwukwoug k,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbmutgurbmuzg kgksbgkpgfvoriu,gkzg.tgbmugnriugkpgiklprlrlxgbmurz
.uorupgbkgbmurzgkqlgivwvirbt;gkz,gqmrimgRgvfgfkzugrliorlu gbkgbmrlc,gpkz
lkbgmvnrlxgbmurzgarxmbgabzklx,giouvz,gvl guounvbu gulksxmgbkgikliurnugbmu
awoul kszgkpgnrzbsugrlgmuzglvbrnugwszrbt:gvagWosbvzimgikfwovrla,gbmvbgrl
mragbrfugakfugvbbzr.sbu gbmugivsaugkpgbmugtkslxuzgIvbk’ag uvbmgbkgmra
puvzgkpgIvuavz,gvbgqmrimgmugauufagnuztgvlxzt,gvl gqrbmgxkk gzuvakl;gvl 
.tgbmragvgfvlgfvtgxsuaagmkqgfsimgfkzugmugqkso gmvnug.uulgkppul u gqrbm
bmkaugqmkgmvnugvbbzr.sbu grbgbkgvf.rbrkljggAulauouaagwukwou!ggMugqkso 
zvbmuzgmvnugwuzpkzfu gvglk.ou,gysab,gvl gxuluzksagvibrkl,gvl gbkgmvnugmv 
rxlkfrltgpkzgmragzuqvz ,gbmvlgpkzgxokztjggBmvbgfvlgqvagrlgbzsbmgvgwvbbuzl
bmvbglvbszugimkaugksbgbkgamkqgbkgqmvbgmurxmbgmsfvlgnrzbsugvl giklabvlit
ikso gvzzrnuj

.sbgRgvfglkbgivwv.ougkpgmvl orlxgakgzrimgvlgvzxsfulb,gvl gamvoogbmuzupkzu
klotgaubgprnugOvbrlgwkubagbkxubmuz,giklbul rlxgrlgbmugwzvraugkpgIvbk;
vl ,grlir ulbvoot,gpkzgbmurzgkqlgbkkjggLkq,gvgquoo-u sivbu gimro gqroo
ys xugbmugbqkgprzab,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugkbmuza,gvgorbbougpovbgvl 
ovlxsr ;gbmugbmrz gfkzugnrxkzksa,g.sbgknuzbmzkqlg.tgbmuguhbzvnvxvliugkp
mragkqlgpkziu;gmugqroogbmulgbmrlcgbmvbgbmuzugqroog.ugzkkfgpkzgklugkzgbqk
xzv vbrklagkpgrlnulbrklgbkgikfugbkgbmugpkszbm,gvl ,gfkslbrlxgbkgbmugwrbim
kpgbmvb,gmugqroogorpbgswgmragmvl agrlgv frzvbrkl;gikfrlxgbkgbmugovab,gbmu
przabg.tgakfugawviu’g(.sbgvgawviugbmvbgmugqroogaquvzgraglkbgbkg.ugproou 
swg.tgvltgmsfvlgqrb),gmugqroog.ugvabksl u ,gmugqrooglkbgclkqgqmuzugmugraj

Vl gmuzugragvgqkl uz:gqugmvnugpvzgfkzugwkubagbmvlgys xuagvl grlbuzwzubuza
kpgwkubzt;grbgraguvaruzgbkgqzrbugrbgbmvlgbkgsl uzabvl grbjggBmuzugra,
rl uu ,gvgiuzbvrlgokqgvl gfk uzvbugakzbgkpgwkubzt,gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgquoo
ulksxmgys xug.tgiuzbvrlgzsouagkpgvzb;g.sbgbmugbzsu,gaswzufu,gvl g rnrlu
wkuatgragv.knugvoogzsouagvl gzuvakljggVl gqmkunuzg raiuzlagbmug.uvsbtgkp
rbgqrbmgbmugfkabgvaaszu gvl gfkabgabuv tgarxmb,gauuaglkgfkzugbmvlgbmu
esricgzupouibrklgkpgvgpovamgkpgorxmblrlx:grbg kuaglkbguhuzirau,g.sb
zvnramuagvl gknuzqmuofagkszgys xfulbjggBmugpsztgbmvbgwkaauaauagmrfgqmkgra
v.ougbkgwulubzvbugrlbkgrbgqksl agtubgvgbmrz gfvlg.tgmuvzrlxgmrfgzuwuvb
rb;gorcugvgokv abklugbmvbglkbgklotgvbbzvibagbmugluu ou,g.sbgvoakgrlpsaua
rlbkgrbgbmugnrzbsugbkgvbbzvibgkbmuzajggVl grbgragfkzugunr ulbotgfvlrpuab
rlgkszgbmuvbzua,gbmvbgbmugavizu grlawrzvbrklgkpgbmugFsaua,gmvnrlxgprzab
abrzzu gswgbmugwkubgbkgvlxuz,gakzzkq,gmvbzu ,gvl gksbgkpgmrfauop,gbk
qmvbunuzgbmutgqroo,g kuagfkzuknuzg.tgbmugwkubgwkaauaagbmugvibkz,gvl g.t
bmugvibkzgiklauisbrnuotgvoogbmugawuibvbkzajggAkgfsimg kgkszgwvaarklagmvlx
vl g uwul gswklgklugvlkbmuzj

Wkubztgmvagunuzgmv gbmvbgwkquzgknuzgfugpzkfgvgimro gbkgbzvlawruziugvl 
bzvlawkzbgfu;g.sbgbmragnrnr gaulbrfulbgbmvbgraglvbszvogbkgfugmvag.uul
nvzrksaotgmvl ou g.tgnvzrubtgkpgpkzfa,glkbgakgfsimgmrxmuzgkzgokquzg(pkz
bmutgquzugunuzgbmugmrxmuabgkpgunuztgcrl ),gvag rppuzrlxgrlgikokszj
Przab,gvgxvtgvl gawzrxmbotgposulit;gvpbuzqvz a,gvgokpbtgvl gwulubzvbrlx
as.boubt;gvl govabot,gvgfvbszugvl giklabvlbgnrxkszjggBmurzglvfuagqroo
.ubbuzguhwzuaagbmuf:gKnr ,gOsivl,gNrzxroj

.sbgkszgwkubagvzug.uxrllrlxgbmurzgivzuuz:

ggggggggg“ArbgIvbk,g sfgnrnrb,gavlugnuogIvuavzugfvykz,”

ggggg[“OubgIvbk,gqmroabgmugornu,g.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgIvuavzj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,gnrjg32]

avtagkluj

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgrlnribsf,g unribvgfkzbu,gIvbkluf,”

gggggggggg[“Vl gIvbkgrlnrlir.ou,g uvbmg.urlxgknuzikfuj”
ggggggggggg--Fvlrorsa,gVabzklj,grnjg87j]

avtagbmugauikl jggVl gbmugbmrz ,gawuvcrlxgkpgbmugirnrogqvzag.ubqrhb
Ivuavzgvl gWkfwut,

gggggggggg“Nribzrhgivsavg rragwovisrb,gaubgnribvgIvbklrj”

ggggg[“Bmugnribkzrksagivsaug.ouaau gbmugxk a,gbmug upuvbu gklugIvbkj
ggggg--“Osivl,grjg128j]

Vl gbmugpkszbm,gswklgbmugwzvrauagkpgIvuavz:

gggggggggggggg“Ubgislibvgbuzzvzsfgas.vibv,
gggggggggggggggWzvubuzgvbzkiufgvlrfsfgIvbklraj”

ggggg[“Vl giklesuzu gvoog.sbgbmugrl kfrbv.ougfrl gkpgIvbkj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg1,g23j]

Vl gbmugfvabuzgkpgbmugimkrz,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgaubgpkzbmgvoogbmugxzuvbglvfua
kpgbmugxzuvbuabgZkfvla,gul agbmsa:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Mrag vlbufgyszvgIvbklufj”

ggggg[“Ivbkgxrnrlxgovqagbkgvoogbmugzuabj”--VUlur ,gnrrrjg670j]




IMVWBUZgHHHNRR

BMVBgQUgOVSXMgVL gIZTgPKZgBMUgAVFUgBMRLX

Qmulgqugzuv grlgmrabkztgbmvbgVlbrxklsagqvagnuztgfsimg rawouvau gqrbmgmra
aklgpkzgwzuaulbrlxgmrfgbmugmuv gkpgCrlxgWtzzmsagmraguluft,g.sbgluqot
aovrlgprxmbrlxgvxvrlabgmrf,gvl gbmvbgauurlxgrb,gmugquwb;gvl gbmvbgZulu,
 scugkpgOkzzvrlu,gvoakgovfulbu gbmug uvbmgkpgImvzoua,g scugkpg.szxsl t,
qmkfgmugmv gmrfauopg upuvbu ,gvl gvwwuvzu grlgfkszlrlxgvbgmragpsluzvo;
vl gbmvbgrlgbmug.vbbougkpg ’Vszvtg(qmrimgIkslbgFklbpkzbgk.bvrlu gknuz
Imvzouag ug.okra,gmragikfwubrbkzgpkzgbmug simtgkpg.zrbbvlt),gbmu
iklesuzkzgfuubrlxgbmug uv g.k tgkpgmraguluft,gqvagnuztgfsimgvpporibu gvb
mrag uvbm,gqugfsabglkbgwzuaulbotgiztgksb:

gggggggggggggg“Ugikargvnnul,gbmugo’vlrfkgirvaislv
gggggggggggggggAsvgwvaarklgakbbkg‘ogiklbzvzrkgfvlbk,
gggggggggggggggZrikwzu,giklgovgnrabvgkz’imrvzv,gkz’.zslvj”

ggggg[“Vl gbmsagrbgmvwwulagbmvbgbmugfrl gkpguvimgnuroagrbagwvaarklgsl uz
gggggvg rppuzulbgvwwuvzvliu,gvl g.uluvbmgvgafrorlxgnravxu,gxvtg.uluvbmgv
gggggakf.zugvrzj”--Wubzvzimj]

QmulgWkfwut’agmuv gqvagwzuaulbu gbkgIvuavz,gbmugmrabkzruagbuoogsagbmvbgmu
bszlu gvqvtgmragpviu,gvagpzkfgvgav gvl gslwouvarlxgk.yuibjggBmuzugmv 
.uulgakgoklxgvlgrlbuoorxuliugvl gakirubtg.ubqrhbgbmufgrlgbmugfvlvxufulb
kpgbmugws.origvppvrza,gakgxzuvbgvgikffslrbtgkpgpkzbslua,gakgfvltgfsbsvo
kppriua,gvl gakgluvzgvlgvoorvliu,gbmvbgbmragikslbulvliugkpgmragksxmbglkb
bkgasppuzgsl uzgvltgfrarlbuzwzubvbrkl,gkzgbkg.ugasawuibu gpkzgurbmuz
pvoaugkzgikslbuzpurb,gvagbmragkbmuzgauufagbkg.uorunu:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Bsbsfesugwsbvnrb
ggggggggggYvfg.klsaguaaugakiuz;goviztfvuglklgawklbugiv ulbua,
ggggggggggUpps rb,gxufrbsaesuguhwzuaarbgwuibkzugovubk;”

ggggg[“Vl glkqgmugbmksxmbgrbgavpugbkgwovtgbmugcrl gpvbmuz-rl-ovq,
gggggamu  rlxgpkziu gbuvza,gvl gpzkfgvgyktpsog.zuvabg raimvzxrlxgarxma
gggggvl gxzkvlaj”--Osivl,grhjg1037j]

pkzgbmksxmgrbg.ugbzsugbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgkszgvibrklagvzuglkgkbmuz
bmvlgnrakzgvl g raxsrau,gvl gbmvbgrbgfvtgakfubrfuag.ugbzsugbmvb

ggggggggggggggg“Mvuzu ragpoubsagas.gwuzaklvgzrauaguab,”

gggggggggg[“Bmugmurz’agbuvzag.umrl gbmugfvacgvzugafrouaj”
ggggggggggg--Ws.orsagAtzsa,gvws gXuoorsf,ghnrrjg14j]

tub,grlgys xrlxgkpgbmuaugviir ulba,gqugvzugbkgiklar uzgmkqgfsimgkszgaksoa
vzugkpbulbrfuagvxrbvbu gqrbmg rnuzagwvaarklajggVl gvagbmutgavtgbmvbgrl
kszg.k ruagbmuzugragvgiklxzuxvbrklgkpg rnuzagmsfksza,gkpgqmrimgbmvbgra
bmugaknuzurxlgqmrim,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugikfwouhrklgqugvzugkp,gragikffklot
fkabgwzu kfrlvlbgrlgsa:gak,gbmksxmgbmugaksogmvnugrlgrbg rnuzagfkbrklagbk
xrnugrbgvxrbvbrkl,gtubgfsabgbmuzugkpgluiuaarbtg.ugklugbkgknuzzsougvoogbmu
zuab,gbmksxmglkbgqrbmgakgluiuaavztgvl gv.akosbugvg kfrlrklg.sbgbmvb
bmzksxmgbmugpouhr.rorbtgvl grliklabvlitgkpgbmugakso,gbmkaugkpgouaa
vsbmkzrbtgfvtgswklgkiivarklgzuvaasfugbmurzgwoviugvl gfvcugvgorbbougavoot
rlgbszljggBmuliugrbgra,gbmvbgqugauuglkbgklotgimro zul,gqmkgrllkiulbot
k.utgvl gpkookqglvbszu,gkpbulgovsxmgvl giztgvbgbmugavfugbmrlx,g.sbglkb
klugkpgsagivlg.kvab,gqmvbgykszlutgakunuzgmugfvtgmvnugrlgmvl gbmvbgmugmva
bmugfkabgaubgmragmuvzbgswkl,g.sbgqmulgmugikfuagbkgwvzbgqrbmgmragpvfrot
vl gpzrul a,gmugqroogprl gakfubmrlxgbmvbgbzks.ouagmrfgqrbmrl;gvl gbmksxm
mugzupzvrlgmragbuvzagtubgmugwsbagpkkbgrlgbmugabrzzswgqrbmgvgav gvl 
ioks tgikslbulvliujggVl gqmvbgxulbougpovfugakunuzgfvtgqvzfgbmugmuvzbgkp
fk uabgvl gquoo.kzlgnrzxrla,gtubgvzugbmutgpvrlgbkg.ugpkziu gpzkfgv.ksb
bmurzgfkbmuza’gluicagbkg.ugwsbgbkg.u gbkgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gqmvbunuzgbmra
.kklgikfwvlrklgragwouvau gbkgavt:

ggggggggg“Uabluglknraglswbragk rkgNulsa?ggvllugwvzulbsf
ggggggggggPzsabzvlbszgpvoaragxvs rvgovimztfsora,
ggggggggggS.uzbrfgbmvovfrgesvargrlbzvgorfrlvgpsl slb?
ggggggggggLkl,grbvgfug rnr,gnuzvgxufslb,gysnuzrlbj”

ggggg[“RagNulsagzuvootgakgvovzfrlxgbkgbmugluq-fv ug.zr u,gkzg kuagamu
gggggmkluabotgkwwkaugmuzgwvzulb’agzuykrirlxgbmugbuvzagamugakgv.sl vlbot
gggggamu agklgulbuzrlxgbmuglswbrvogimvf.uz?ggLk,g.tgbmugXk a,gbmuaugvzu
ggggglkgbzsugbuvzaj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrjg15j]

ggggg[“RagNulsagzuvootgakgzuwsxlvlbgbkgluqot-fvzzru gfvr a?gg kgbmutgfuub
gggggbmugafrouagkpgwvzulbagqrbmgpurxlu gbuvza?ggBmutgquuwgikwrksaot
gggggqrbmrlgbmugnuztgbmzuamko gkpgbmuglswbrvogimvf.uzjggLk,gakgbmugxk a
gggggmuowgfu,gbmutg kglkbgbzsotgxzrunuj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrjgg15j]--
ggggg[Vgfkzugorbuzvogbzvlaovbrkljgg jQj]

Lurbmuzgragrbgabzvlxugbkgovfulbgvgwuzaklg uv gqmkfgvgfvlgqkso g.tglk
fuvlagamkso g.ugvornujggQmulgRgzvbbougftgfvl,gRg kgrbgqrbmgvoogbmugfubbou
Rgmvnu,gvl gokv gmrfgqrbmglkgpurxlu ,g.sbg kqlzrxmbgzuvogiszaua;g.sbgbmu
muvbg.urlxgknuz,grpgmugamkso gabvl grlgluu gkpgfu,gRgamkso g.ugnuztgzuv t
bkg kgmrfgxkk :gpkzgRgrlabvlbotgbszlgbmugouvpjggQmulgRgivoogmrfgivopgvl 
ikhikf.,gRg kglkbgwzubul gbkgulbvrogbmkaugbrbouagswklgmrfgpkzgunuz;
lurbmuzg kgRgbmrlcgRgxrnugftauopgbmugorugrlgivoorlxgmrfgvlgmkluabgpuookq
wzuaulbotgvpbuzjggLkgklugesvorbtgulxzkaauagsagwszuotgvl gslrnuzavootj
Quzugrbglkbgbmugarxlgkpgvgpkkogbkgbvocgbkgklu’agauop,gbmuzugqkso gmvz ot
.ugvg vtgkzgmkszgqmuzurlgRgfrxmbglkbg.ugmuvz gbkgxzsf.ougvl gfsbbuzgbk
ftauopgvl gvxvrlabgftauop,g“Iklpksl gbmugpkko!”gvl gtubgRg kglkbgbmrlc
bmvbgbkg.ugftg uprlrbrkljggQmkgpkzgauurlxgfugklugqmrougiko gvl gwzuaulbot
nuztgpkl gbkqvz agftgqrpu,g.uorunuagbmugklugkzgbmugkbmuzgbkg.u
ikslbuzpurbu ,gragvlgvaajggLuzk,gbvcrlxgouvnugkpgmragfkbmuzgqmkfgmugqva
aul rlxgbkg.ug zkqlu ,gqvaglunuzbmuouaagaular.ougkpgakfugufkbrklgvbgbmra
pvzuquoo,gvl gqvagabzsicgqrbmgmkzzkzgvl gwrbtjgg‘Bragavr ,gbmvbgbmugorxmb
kpgbmugaslgraglkbgklugiklbrlsksagbmrlx,g.sbgbmvbgmug vzbagluqgzvtagak
bmricgklugswklgvlkbmuzgbmvbgqugivllkbgwuziurnugbmugrlbuzfraarkl:

ggggggggg“Ovzxsagulrfgoresr rgpklagosfrlra,gvubmuzrsagako,
ggggggggggRzzrxvbgvaar sugikuosfgivl kzugzuiulbr,
ggggggggggAswwu rbvbesuglknkgiklpuabrfgosfrlugosfulj”

ggggg[“Akgbmugqr ugpkslbvrlgkpgoresr gorxmb,gbmugubmuzuvogasl,gabuv rot
gggggpuzbrorauagbmugmuvnulagqrbmgluqgmuvb,gvl gaswworuagvgiklbrlsksa
gggggabkzugkpgpzuamgorxmbj”--Osizubrsa,gnjg282j]

Ysabgakgbmugaksognvzrksaotgvl grfwuziuwbr.otg vzbagksbgmuzgwvaarklaj

Vzbv.vlsagikfrlxg.tgaszwzraugkliugswklgmragluwmuqgHuzhua,gimr gmrfgpkz
bmugas  ulgvobuzvbrklgkpgmragikslbulvliujggMugqvagiklar uzrlxgbmu
rffuvaszv.ougxzuvbluaagkpgmragpkziuagwvaarlxgknuzgbmugMuoouawklbgpkzgbmu
Xzuirvlguhwu rbrkl:gmugqvagprzabgaurdu gqrbmgvgwvowrbvbrklgkpgykt,gbkgauu
akgfvltgfroorklagkpgfulgsl uzgmragikffvl ,gvl gbmragvwwuvzu grlgbmu
xvrubtgkpgmragokkca:g.sbgmragbmksxmbagvbgbmugavfugrlabvlbgasxxuabrlxgbk
mrfgbmvbgkpgakgfvltgornua,gqrbmrlgvgiulbsztgvbgfkab,gbmuzugqkso glkbg.u
klugoupb,gmugwzuaulbotgclrbgmrag.zkqagvl gxzuqgav ,gunulgbkgbuvzaj

Qugmvnugzuakosbuotgwszasu gbmugzunulxugkpgvlgrlysztgzuiurnu ,gvl g.uul
aular.ougkpgvgarlxsovzgiklbulbfulbgpkzgbmugnribkzt;g.sbgqugamvoogquuw
lkbqrbmabvl rlxjgg‘Braglkbgpkzgbmugnribkzt,gbmksxm,gbmvbgqugamvoogquuw:
bmuzugraglkbmrlxgvobuzu grlgbmvbg.sbgbmugaksogokkcagswklgbmrlxagqrbm
vlkbmuzgutugvl gzuwzuaulbagbmufgbkgrbauopgqrbmgvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgpviu;gpkz
unuztbmrlxgmvagfvltgpviuagvl gaunuzvogvawuibaj

Zuovbrkla,gko gviesvrlbvliua,gvl gpzrul amrwa,gwkaauaagkszgrfvxrlvbrkla
vl gfvcugbmufgbul uzgpkzgbmugbrfu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgikl rbrkl;g.sbgbmu
bszlgragakgesric,gbmvbg‘bragxklugrlgvgfkfulb:

gggggggggggggg“Lrogv ukgpruzrgiuouzrgzvbrklugnr ubsz,
gggggggggggggggEsvfgargfulagpruzrgwzkwklrb,gubgrlimkvbgrwav,
gggggggggggggggKirsaguzxkgvlrfsa,gesvfgzuagaugwuzirubgsoov,
gggggggggggggggVlbugkisokageskzsfgrlgwzkfwbsglvbszvgnr ubsz;”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgbmuzupkzugauufagbkg.ug klugrlgakgaqrpbgvgfvlluzgbmvlgrp
gggggbmugfrl gwzkwkauagrbgbkg.ug klu,gvl grbauopg.uxrlajggRbgragfkzu
gggggvibrnugbmvlgvltbmrlxgqmrimgqugauugrlglvbszuj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg183j]

vl gbmuzupkzu,grpgqugqkso gfvcugklugiklbrlsu gbmrlxgkpgvoogbmra
asiiuaarklgkpgwvaarkla,gqug uiurnugkszauonuajggQmulgBrfkouklgovfulbagbmu
fsz uzgmugmv gikffrbbu gswklgakgfvbszugvl gxuluzksag uor.uzvbrkl,gmug kua
lkbgovfulbgbmugor.uzbtgzuabkzu gbkgmragikslbzt,gmug kuaglkbgovfulbgbmu
btzvlb;g.sbgmugovfulbagmrag.zkbmuz:gklugwvzbgkpgmrag sbtgragwuzpkzfu ;
oubgsagxrnugmrfgouvnugbkgwuzpkzfgbmugkbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHHHNRRR

KPgAKORBS U

Oubgsagwzubuzfrbgbmvbgoklxgikfwvzraklg.ubqrhbgbmugvibrnugvl gbmugakorbvzt
orpu;gvl gvagpkzgbmugprlugavtrlxagqrbmgqmrimgvf.rbrklgvl gvnvzriu
wvoorvbugbmurzgnriua,gbmvbgqugvzuglkbg.kzlgpkzgkszauonuag.sbgpkzgbmu
ws.ori,--[Bmragragbmugusokxrsfgwvaau g.tgOsivlgklgIvbkgkpgSbriv,grrj
383j]--oubgsag.ko otgvwwuvogbkgbmkaugqmkgvzugrlgws.origvppvrza;goubgbmuf
ovtgbmurzgmvl agswklgbmurzgmuvzba,gvl gbmulgavtgqmubmuz,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,
bmutg kglkbgzvbmuzgvawrzugbkgbrbouagvl gkppriuagvl gbmvbgbsfsobgkpgbmu
qkzo gbkgfvcugbmurzgwzrnvbugv nvlbvxugvbgbmugws.origuhwulaujggBmugikzzswb
qvtag.tgqmrimgrlgbmragkszgbrfugbmutgvzzrnugvbgbmugmurxmbgbkgqmrimgbmurz
vf.rbrklagvawrzu,gfvlrpuabotgulksxmg uiovzuagbmvbgbmurzgul agivllkbg.u
nuztgxkk jggOubgsagbuoogvf.rbrklgbmvbgrbgragamugmuzauopgqmkgxrnuagsagv
bvabugkpgakorbs u;gpkzgqmvbg kuagamugakgfsimgvnkr gvagakirubt?ggQmvbg kua
amugakgfsimgauucgvaguo.kqzkkf?ggVgfvlgfvltg kgquoogkzgroogunuztqmuzu;g.sb
rpgqmvbg.rvagavtag.ugbzsu,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgragbmugqkzaugwvzb,gkz
qmvbgbmugWzuvimuzgavta:gbmuzugraglkbgklugxkk gkpgvgbmksavl :

gggggggggggggg“Zvzrgesrwwug.klr:glsfuzkgnrhgaslbgbkbr ufgeskb
gggggggggggggggBmu.vzsfgwkzbvu,gnuog rnrbragkabrvgLror,”

ggggg[“Xkk gfulgpkzakkbmgvzugaivziu:gbmuzugvzugmvz otgvagfvltgvagbmuzu
gggggvzugxvbuagkpgBmu.uagkzgfksbmagkpgbmugzrimgLrouj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghrrrjg26j]

bmugiklbvxrklgragnuztg vlxuzksagrlgbmugizkq jggVgfvlgfsabgurbmuzgrfrbvbu
bmugnrirksagkzgmvbugbmufg.kbmgvzug vlxuzksagbmrlxa,gurbmuzgbkgzuauf.ou
bmufg.uivsaugbmutgvzugfvltgkzgbkgmvbugfvltg.uivsaugbmutgvzugslzuauf.orlx
bkgkszauonuajggFuzimvlbagqmkgxkgbkgauvgvzugrlgbmugzrxmbgqmulgbmutgvzu
ivsbrksagbmvbgbmkaugqmkguf.vzcgqrbmgbmufgrlgbmugavfug.kbbkfg.uglurbmuz
 raakosbug.ovawmufuzaglkzgnrirksagkbmuzgqvta,gokkcrlxgswklgasimgakirubt
vagslpkzbslvbujggVl gbmuzupkzugrbgqvagbmvbg.rvagwouvavlbotgavr gbkgakfu,
qmkg.urlxgqrbmgmrfgrlgvg vlxuzksagabkzfgrfwokzu gbmugvaarabvliugkpgbmu
xk a:g“Wuviu,gawuvcgakpbot,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgbmutgfvtglkbgclkqgtksgvzu
muzugrlgftgikfwvltj”--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa]--Vl gkpgfkzugwzuaarlx
uhvfwou,gVo.sesuzesu,gnriuzktgrlgbmugRl ruagpkzgUffvlsuo,gcrlxgkp
Wkzbsxvo,grlgvlguhbzufugwuzrogkpgamrwqzuic,gbkkcgvgtkslxg.ktgswklgmra
amkso uza,gpkzgbmragklotgul gbmvb,grlgbmugakirubtgkpgbmurzgikffklg vlxuz
mragrllkiuliugfrxmbgauznugbkgwzkbuibgmrf,gvl gbkgzuikfful gmrfgbkgbmu
 rnrlugpvnksz,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgxubgavpugbkgamkzujgg‘Braglkbgbmvbgvgqrau
fvlgfvtglkbgornugunuztqmuzugiklbulb,gvl g.ugvoklugrlgbmugnuztgizkq gkpgv
wvoviu;g.sbgrpgrbg.ugoupbgbkgmragkqlgimkriu,gbmugaimkkofvlgqroogbuoogtks
bmvbgmugamkso gpotgbmugnuztgarxmbgkpgbmugizkq :gmugqroogul szugrbgrpgluu 
.u;g.sbgrpgrbg.ugzupuzzu gbkgmrf,gmugqroogimkkaugbkg.ugvoklujggMugivllkb
bmrlcgmrfauopgaspprirulbotgzr gkpgnriu,grpgmugfsabgtubgiklbul gqrbmgrbgrl
kbmuzgfuljggImvzkl vagwslramu gbmkaugvagunrogfulgqmkgquzugiklnribu gkp
cuuwrlxgroogikfwvltjggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgslakirv.ougvl gakirv.ougvagfvl,
bmugklug.tgmragnriu,gbmugkbmuzg.tgmraglvbszujggVl gVlbrabmulua,grlgft
kwrlrkl,g r glkbgxrnugmrfgvgavbrapvibkztgvlaquz,gqmkgzuwzkvimu gmrfgqrbm
pzuesulbrlxgroogikfwvlt,g.tgavtrlxgbmvbgbmugwmtarirvlagornu gquoogulksxm
vfklxabgbmugaric,gpkzgrpgbmutgiklbzr.sbugbkgbmugmuvobmgkpgbmugaric,glk
 ks.bg.sbg.tgbmugiklbvxrkl,giklbrlsvogarxmbgkp,gvl gpvfrorvzrbtgqrbm
 rauvaua,gbmutgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgrfwvrzgbmurzgkqlj

Lkqgbmugul ,gRgbvcugrb,gragvoogklu,gbkgornugvbgfkzugouraszugvl gvbgklu’a
uvau:g.sbgfulg kglkbgvoqvtagbvcugbmugzrxmbgqvtjggBmutgkpbulgbmrlcgbmut
mvnugbkbvootgbvculgouvnugkpgvoog.sarluaa,gqmulgbmutgmvnugklotguhimvlxu 
klugufwoktfulbgpkzgvlkbmuz:gbmuzugragorbbougouaagbzks.ougrlgxknuzlrlxgv
wzrnvbugpvfrotgbmvlgvgqmkougcrlx kfjggQmuzunuzgbmugfrl gragwuzwouhu ,grb
ragrlgvlgulbrzug rakz uz,gvl g kfuabrigufwoktfulbagvzuglkbgouaa
bzks.ouakfugpkzg.urlxgouaagrfwkzbvlbjggFkzuknuz,gpkzgmvnrlxgamvculgkpp
bmugikszbgvl gbmuguhimvlxu,gqugmvnuglkbgbvculgouvnugkpgbmugwzrlirwvo
nuhvbrklagkpgorpu:

gggggggggggggg“Zvbrkgubgwzs ulbrvgiszva,
gggggggggggggggLklgokisaguppsargovbugfvzragvz.rbuz,gvspuzb;”

ggggg[“Zuvaklgvl gwzs uliu,glkbgvgwoviugqrbmgvgikffvl rlxgnruqgkpgbmu
gggggxzuvbgkiuvl,g.vlramgivzuj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg2j]

vf.rbrkl,gvnvzriu,grzzuakosbrkl,gpuvz,gvl grlkz rlvbug uarzua,g kglkb
ouvnugsag.uivsaugqugpkzavcugkszglvbrnugikslbzt:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Ub
ggggggggggggggggggggWkabguesrbufgau ubgvbzvgiszv;”

ggggggggggggggg[“.ovicgivzugarbag.umrl gbmugmkzaugfvlj”
gggggggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg1,g40]j

bmutgkpbulgpkookqgsagunulgbkgiokrabuzagvl gwmrokakwmrivogaimkkoa;glkz
 uauzba,glkzgivnua,gmvrz-amrzba,glkzgpvaba,givlg raulxvxugsagpzkfgbmuf:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Mvuzubgovbuzrgoubmvoragvzsl kj”

gggggggggg[“Bmugpvbvogamvpbgv muzuagbkgbmugar uj”--VUlur ,grnjg73j]

KlugbuoorlxgAkizvbuagbmvbgasimgvgklugqvaglkbmrlxgrfwzknu g.tgmragbzvnuoa:
“Rgnuztgquoog.uorunugrb,”gavr gmu,g“pkzgmugbkkcgmrfauopgvoklxgqrbmgmrf”

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esr gbuzzvagvorkgivoulbua
ggggggggggggggggggggAkougfsbvfsa?ggwvbzrvugesraguhaso
ggggggggggggggggggggAugeskesugpsxrb?”

ggggg[“Qmtg kgqugauucgiorfvbuagqvzfu g.tgvlkbmuzgasl?ggQmkgragbmugfvl
gggggbmvbg.tgpouurlxgpzkfgmragikslbzt,givlgvoakgpouugpzkfgmrfauop?”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg16,g18j]

Rpgvgfvlg kglkbgprzabg raimvzxug.kbmgmrfauopgvl gmragfrl gkpgbmug.sz ul
qrbmgqmrimgmugprl agmrfauopgkwwzuaau ,gfkbrklgqroog.sbgfvcugrbgwzuaagbmu
mvz uzgvl garbgbmugmuvnruz,gvagbmugov rlxgkpgvgamrwgragkpgouaa
ulisf.zvliugqmulgpvabgvl g.uabkqu grlgvgaubbou gwkabszujggTksg kgvgaric
fvlgfkzugmvzfgbmvlgxkk grlgzufknrlxgmrfgpzkfgwoviugbkgwoviu;gtksgprhgvl 
uabv.oramgbmug rauvaug.tgfkbrkl,gvagabvcuagarlcg uuwuzgvl gfkzugprzfot
rlbkgbmuguvzbmg.tg.urlxgfknu gswgvl g kqlgrlgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmutgvzu
 uarxlu gbkgabvl jggBmuzupkzu,grbgraglkbgulksxmgbkgxubgzufkbugpzkfgbmu
ws.ori;g‘braglkbgulksxmgbkgamrpbgbmugakrogklot;gvgfvlgfsabgpouugpzkfgbmu
wkwsovzgikl rbrklagbmvbgmvnugbvculgwkaauaarklgkpgmragakso,gmugfsab
auesuabuzgvl gikfugvxvrlgbkgmrfauop:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Zswrgyvfgnrlisov,g riva
gggggggggggggggLvfgosibvbvgivlraglk sfgvzzrwrb;gvbbvfulgroor,
gggggggggggggggEssfgpsxrb,gvgikookgbzvmrbszgwvzagoklxvgivbulvuj”

ggggg[“Tksgavt,gwuzmvwa,gtksgmvnug.zkculgtkszgimvrla:gbmug kxgqmkgvpbuz
gggggoklxguppkzbagmvag.zkculgmragimvrl,gabroogrlgmragporxmbg zvxagvgmuvnt
gggggwkzbrklgkpgrbgvpbuzgmrfj”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,gnjg158j]

Qugabroogivzztgkszgpubbuzagvoklxgqrbmgsajgg‘Braglkbgvlgv.akosbugor.uzbt;
qugtubgivabg.vicgvgokkcgswklgqmvbgqugmvnugoupbg.umrl gsa;gbmugpvlitgra
abroogpsoogkpgrb:

gggggggggg“Lrargwszxvbsfguabgwuibsa,gesvugwzvuorvglk.ra
ggggggggggVbesugwuzrisovgbsligrlxzvbragrlarlsvl sf?
ggggggggggEsvlbvugikllairl slbgmkfrlufgiswu rlragvizua
ggggggggggAkoorirbsfgiszvu?gesvlbresugwuzrl ugbrfkzua?
ggggggggggEsr nugaswuz.rv,gawszirbrv,gvigwubsovlbrv,gesvlbva
ggggggggggUpprirslbgiov ua?gesr goshsag uar ruaesu?”

ggggg[“.sbgslouaagbmugfrl gragwszrpru ,gqmvbgrlbuzlvogikf.vbagvl g vlxuza
gggggfsabgqugrliszgrlgawrbugkpgvoogkszguppkzba!ggMkqgfvltg.rbbuz
gggggvlhrubrua,gmkqgfvltgbuzzkza,gpkookqgswklgslzuxsovbu gwvaarkl!
gggggQmvbg uabzsibrklg.upvooagsagpzkfgwzr u,gosab,gwubsovlbgvlxuz!
gggggQmvbgunroagvzraugpzkfgoshsztgvl gaokbm!”--Osizubrsa,gnjg4j]

Kszg rauvaugoruagrlgbmugfrl ,gqmrimgivllkbguaivwugpzkfgrbauop;

gggggggggg“Rlgisowvguabgvlrfsa,gesrgauglklguppsxrbgslesvf,”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg14,g13j

vl gbmuzupkzugragbkg.ugivoou gmkfugvl giklprlu gqrbmrlgrbauop:gbmvbgra
bmugbzsugakorbs u,gvl gbmvbgfvtg.ugulyktu gunulgrlgwkwsoksagirbruagvl 
bmugikszbagkpgcrlxa,gbmksxmgfkzugikffk rksaotgvwvzbj

Lkq,garliugqugqroogvbbufwbgbkgornugvoklu,gvl gbkgqvrnugvoogfvlluzgkp
iklnuzavbrklgvfklxabgbmuf,goubgsagakgkz uzgrbgbmvbgkszgiklbulbgfvtg uwul 
qmkootgswklgkszauonua;goubgsag raakonugvoogk.orxvbrklagbmvbgvootgsagbk
kbmuza;goubgsagk.bvrlgbmragpzkfgkszauonua,gbmvbgqugfvtgornugvoklugrlgxkk 
uvzluab,gvl gornugvbgkszguvaugbkkj

Abrowkgmvnrlxguaivwu gpzkfgbmug.szlrlxgkpgmragbkql,gqmuzugmugokabgqrpu,
imro zul,gvl gxkk a,g ufubzrsagWkorkziubuagauurlxgmrf,grlgakgxzuvbgvgzsrl
kpgmragikslbzt,gvwwuvzgqrbmgvlgsl rabsz.u gikslbulvliu,gvacu gmrfgrpgmu
mv gzuiurnu glkgokaa?ggBkgqmrimgmugfv ugvlaquz,gLk;gvl gbmvb,gbmvlcgXk ,
lkbmrlxgqvagokabgkpgmraj--[Auluiv,gUwjg7j]--Bmragvoakgqvagbmugfuvlrlxgkp
bmugwmrokakwmuzgVlbrabmulua,gqmulgmugwouvavlbotgavr ,gbmvbg“fulgamkso 
pszlramgbmufauonuagqrbmgasimgbmrlxagvagqkso gpokvb,gvl gfrxmbgqrbmgbmu
kqluzguaivwugbmugabkzf”;--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnrjg6j]gvl giuzbvrlotgv
qraugfvlglunuzgokauagvltbmrlxgrpgmugmvnugmrfauopjggQmulgbmugirbtgkpgLkov
qvagzsrlu g.tgbmug.vz.vzrvla,gWvsorlsa,gqmkgqvag.ramkwgkpgbmvbgwoviu,
mvnrlxgbmuzugokabgvoogmugmv ,gmrfauopgvgwzrakluz,gwzvtu gvpbuzgbmra
fvlluz:g“KgOkz ,g upul gfugpzkfg.urlxgaular.ougkpgbmragokaa;gpkzgBmks
clkquabgbmutgmvnugtubgbksimu glkbmrlxgkpgbmvbgqmrimgragfrluj”--[Abj
Vsxsabrl,g ugIrnrbjg ur,grjg10j]--Bmugzrimuagbmvbgfv ugmrfgzrimgvl gbmu
xkk agbmvbgfv ugmrfgxkk ,gquzugabroogcuwbgulbrzujggBmragrbgragbkgfvcu
imkriugkpgbzuvaszuagbmvbgivlgauiszugbmufauonuagpzkfgwosl uzgvl gnrkouliu,
vl gbkgmr ugbmufgrlgasimgvgwoviugrlbkgqmrimglkgklugivlgulbuzgvl gbmvbgra
lkbgbkg.ug.ubzvtu g.tgvltg.sbgkszauonuajggQrnua,gimro zul,gvl gxkk agfsab
.ugmv ,gvl guawuirvootgmuvobm,g.tgmrfgbmvbgivlgxubgrb;g.sbgqugvzuglkbgak
bkgaubgkszgmuvzbagswklgbmufgbmvbgkszgmvwwrluaagfsabgmvnugrbag uwul uliu
swklgbmuf;gqugfsabgzuauznugvg.vicamkw,gqmkootgkszgkqlgvl gulbrzuotgpzuu,
qmuzurlgbkgaubbougkszgbzsugor.uzbt,gkszgwzrlirwvogakorbs ugvl gzubzuvbj
Vl grlgbmragqugfsabgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgulbuzbvrlgkszauonuagqrbmgkszauonua,
vl gakgwzrnvbuotgbmvbglkguhkbrigclkqou xugkzgikffslrivbrklg.ugv frbbu 
bmuzu;gbmuzugbkgovsxmgvl gbkgbvoc,gvagrpgqrbmksbgqrpu,gimro zul,gxkk a,
bzvrl,gkzgvbbul vliu,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgqmulgrbgamvoogakgpvoogksbgbmvbgqu
fsabgokaugvltgkzgvoogkpgbmuau,grbgfvtg.uglkgluqgbmrlxgbkg.ugqrbmksbgbmufj
Qugmvnugvgfrl gworv.ougrlgrbauop,gbmvbgqroog.ugikfwvlt;gbmvbgmva
qmuzuqrbmvogbkgvbbvicgvl gbkg upul ,gbkgzuiurnugvl gbkgxrnu:goubgsaglkb
bmulgpuvzgrlgbmragakorbs ugbkgovlxsramgsl uzgvlgslikfpkzbv.ougnvisrbtj

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgakoragaragbr.rgbsz.vgokiraj”

ggggg[“Rlgakorbs u,g.ugikfwvltgpkzgbmtauopj”--Br.soosa,gnrjg13jg12j]

Nrzbsugragavbrapru gqrbmgmuzauop,gqrbmksbg rairworlu,gqrbmksbgqkz a,
qrbmksbguppuibajggRlgkszgkz rlvztgvibrklagbmuzugraglkbgklugkpgvgbmksavl 
bmvbgikliuzlagkszauonuajggMugbmvbgbmksgauuabgaizvf.orlxgswgbmugzsrlagkp
bmvbgqvoo,gpszrksagvl gbzvlawkzbu ,gvxvrlabgqmkfgakgfvltgmvzesu.saa-amkba
vzugounuoou ;gvl gbmvbgkbmuzgvoogknuzgaivza,gwvou,gvl gpvrlbrlxgqrbm
mslxuz,gvl gtubgzuakonu gzvbmuzgbkg rugbmvlgbkgkwulgbmugxvbuagbkgmrf;
 kabgbmksgbmrlcgbmvbgbmuaugfulgvzugbmuzugswklgbmurzgkqlgviikslb?ggLk;
wuzv nulbszugrlgbmug.umvopgkpgklugqmkfgbmutglunuzgavqgvl gqmkglunuz
ikliuzlagmrfauopgpkzgbmurzgwvrlagvl g vlxuz,g.sbgoruagqvookqrlxgbmugqmrou
rlgaokbmgvl gwouvaszu:gbmragkbmuzgaovnuzrlx,g.ouvz-utu ,gaoknulotgpuookq,
bmvbgbmksgauuabgikfugksbgkpgmragabs tgvpbuzgfr lrxmb,g kabgbmksgbmrlcgmu
mvag.uulgbsf.orlxgknuzg.kkcagbkgouvzlgmkqgbkg.uikfugvg.ubbuzgfvl,gqrauz,
vl gfkzugiklbulb?ggLkgasimgfvbbuz;gmugqroogbmuzugul gmrag vta,g.sbgmu
qroogbuvimgwkabuzrbtgbmugfuvaszugkpgWovsbsa’gnuzauagvl gbmugbzsu
kzbmkxzvwmtgkpgvgOvbrlgqkz jggQmkgragrbgbmvbg kuaglkbgnkoslbvzrot
uhimvlxugmragmuvobm,gmragzuwkau,gvl gmragnuztgorpugpkzgzuwsbvbrklgvl 
xokzt,gbmugfkabgsauouaa,gpzrnkoksa,gvl gpvoaugikrlgbmvbgwvaauagiszzulb
vfklxabgsa?ggKszgkqlg uvbmg kuaglkbgaspprirulbotgbuzzrptgvl gbzks.ougsa;
oubgsa,gfkzuknuz,gimvzxugkszauonuagqrbmgbmkaugkpgkszgqrnua,gimro zul,gvl 
pvfrot:gkszgkqlgvppvrzag kglkbgvppkz gsagvlhrubtgulksxm;goubgsagsl uzbvcu
bmkaugkpgkszglurxm.kszagvl gpzrul a,gabroogfkzugbkg.zuvcgkszg.zvrlagvl 
bkzfulbgsa:

ggggggggg“Nvm!gesufesvflugmkfrlufgrlgvlrfsfgrlabrbsuzu,gvsb
ggggggggggWvzvzu,gesk garbgivzrsa,gesvfgrwauguabgar.r?”

ggggg[“Vm!givlgvltgfvlgikliurnugrlgmragfrl gkzgzuvoraugqmvbgrag uvzuz
gggggbmvlgmugragbkgmrfauop?”--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grjgR,g13j]

Akorbs ugauufagbkgfugbkgquvzgbmug.uabgpvnkszgrlgasimgvagmvnugvozuv t
ufwoktu gbmurzgfkabgvibrnugvl gpokszramrlxgvxugrlgbmugqkzo ’agauznriu,
vpbuzgbmuguhvfwougkpgBmvouajggQugmvnugornu gulksxmgpkzgkbmuza;goubgsagvb
ouvabgornugksbgbmugafvoogzuflvlbgkpgorpugpkzgkszauonua;goubgsaglkqgivoo
rlgkszgbmksxmbagvl grlbulbrklagbkgkszauonua,gvl gbkgkszgkqlguvaugvl 
zuwkaujgg‘Braglkgorxmbgbmrlxgbkgfvcugvgaszugzubzuvb;grbgqroog.ugulksxm
pkzgsagbkg kgqrbmksbgfrhrlxgkbmuzgulbuzwzrauajggArliugXk gxrnuagsa
ouraszugbkgkz uzgkszgzufknvo,goubgsagfvcugzuv t,gbzsaagkszg.vxxvxu,gbvcu
ouvnug.ubrfuagkpgbmugikfwvlt,gvl g raulbvlxougkszauonuagpzkfgbmkau
nrkoulbgrfwkzbslrbruagbmvbgulxvxugsaguoauqmuzugvl gauwvzvbugsagpzkf
kszauonuaj

Qugfsabg.zuvcgbmugclkbgkpgkszgk.orxvbrkla,gmkqgabzklxgakunuz,gvl 
muzuvpbuzgoknugbmragkzgbmvb,g.sbguawksauglkbmrlxg.sbgkszauonua:gbmvbgra
bkgavt,goubgbmugzufvrl uzg.ugkszgkql,g.sbglkbgakgykrlu gvl gakgiokaugva
lkbgbkg.ugpkziu gvqvtgqrbmksbgpovtrlxgsagkzgbuvzrlxgksbgwvzbgkpgksz
qmkoujggBmugxzuvbuabgbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gragpkzgvgfvlgbkgclkqgbmvbgmugra
mragkqljgg‘Bragbrfugbkgquvlgkszauonuagpzkfgakirubtgqmulgqugivlglkgoklxuz
v  gvltbmrlxgbkgrb;gmugqmkgraglkbgrlgvgikl rbrklgbkgoul gfsabgpkz.r 
mrfauopgbkg.kzzkqjggKszgpkziuag.uxrlgbkgpvrogsa;goubgsagivoogbmufgrlgvl 
ikliulbzvbugbmufgrlgvl gpkzgkszauonuajggMugbmvbgivlgivabgkppgqrbmrl
mrfauopgvl gzuakonugbmugkppriuagkpgpzrul amrwgvl gikfwvlt,goubgmrfg kgrbj
Rlgbmrag uivtgkpglvbszugqmrimgzul uzagmrfgsauouaa,g.sz ulakfu,gvl 
rfwkzbslvbugbkgkbmuza,goubgmrfgbvcugivzuglkbgbkg.ugsauouaa,g.sz ulakfu,
vl grfwkzbslvbugbkgmrfauopjggOubgmrfgakkbmugvl givzuaagmrfauop,gvl gv.knu
voogbmrlxag.ugaszugbkgxknuzlgmrfauopgqrbmgzunuzuliugbkgmragzuvaklgvl 
iklairuliugbkgbmvbg uxzuugvagbkg.ugvamvfu gbkgfvcugvgpvoaugabuwgrlgbmurz
wzuauliu:

ggggggggggggggg“Zvzsfguabgulrf,gsbgavbragaugesraesugnuzuvbszj”

ggggg[“Pkzg‘bragzvzuotgauulgbmvbgfulgmvnugzuawuibgvl gzunuzuliugulksxm
gggggpkzgbmufauonuaj”--Esrlbrorvl,ghjg7j]

Akizvbuagavtagbmvbg.ktagvzugbkgivsaugbmufauonuagbkg.ugrlabzsibu ,gfulgbk
uhuziraugbmufauonuagrlgquoo- krlx,gvl gko gfulgbkgzubrzugpzkfgvoogirnro
vl gfrorbvztgufwoktfulba,gornrlxgvbgbmurzgkqlg raizubrkl,gqrbmksbgbmu
k.orxvbrklgbkgvltgkppriujgBmuzugvzugakfugikfwouhrklagfkzugwzkwuzgpkz
bmuaugwzuiuwbagkpgzubrzufulbgbmvlgkbmuzajggAsimgvagvzugkpgvgakpbgvl g soo
vwwzumularkl,gvl gkpgvgbul uzgqroogvl gvppuibrkl,glkbgzuv rotgbkg.u
as. su gkzgufwoktu ,gqmuzukpgRgvfgklu,g.kbmg.tglvbszvogikl rbrklgvl g.t
zupouibrkl,gqroogakkluzgrliorlugbkgbmragv nriugbmvlgvibrnugvl g.sat
aksoa,gqmrimguf.zviu:gvoo,gulxvxugrlgvoo,gvzugmkbgswklgunuztbmrlx,gqmrim
kppuz,gwzuaulb,gvl gxrnugbmufauonuagswgbkgunuztgkiivarkljggQugvzugbkgsau
bmuaugviir ulbvogvl guhbzvluksagikffk rbrua,gakgpvzgvagbmutgvzugwouvavlb
bkgsa,g.sbg.tglkgfuvlagbkgovtgkszgwzrlirwvogpksl vbrklgbmuzu;g‘braglk
bzsugklu;glurbmuzglvbszuglkzgzuvaklgvookqagrbgakgbkg.ujggQmtgbmuzupkzu
amkso gqu,giklbzvztgbkgbmurzgovqa,gulaovnugkszgkqlgiklbulbfulbgbkgbmu
wkquzgkpgvlkbmuz?ggBkgvlbrirwvbugvoakgbmugviir ulbagkpgpkzbslu,gbk
 uwzrnugkszauonuagkpgbmugiklnulruliuagqugmvnugrlgkszgkqlgwkquz,gva
aunuzvogmvnug klugswklgbmugviikslbgkpg unkbrkl,gvl gakfugwmrokakwmuzag.t
zuvaklrlx;gbkg.ugklu’agkqlgauznvlb,gbkgorugmvz ,gbkgwsbgksbgkszgkqlgutua,
bkgbmzkqgkszgquvobmgrlbkgbmugzrnuz,gbkgxkgrlgauvzimgkpgxzrup;gbmuau,g.t
bmugfrauztgkpgbmragorpu,gvrfrlxgvbg.oraagrlgvlkbmuz;gbmkaug.tgovtrlx
bmufauonuagokqgbkgvnkr gbmug vlxuzgkpgpvoorlx:gvoogasimgvzugvibagkpgvl
uhiuaarnugnrzbsujggBmugabksbuabgvl gfkabgzuakosbuglvbszuagzul uzgunul
bmurzgauiosarklgxokzrksagvl guhufwovzt:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Bsbvgubgwvznsovgovs k,
ggggggggggEssfgzuag uprirslb,gavbragrlbuzgnrorvgpkzbra
ggggggggggNuzsf,gs.rgesr gfuorsagiklbrlxrbgubgslibrsa,gr uf
ggggggggggMkagavwuzugubgakokagvrkg.ulugnrnuzu,geskzsf
ggggggggggIklawrirbszglrbr ragpsl vbvgwuislrvgnrooraj”

ggggg[“Qmulgfuvlagvzug uprirulb,gRgovs gvgavpugvl gmsf.ougikl rbrkl,
gggggiklbulbgqrbmgorbbou:g.sbgqmulgbmrlxagxzkqg.ubbuzgvl gfkzuguvat,gR
gggggvoogbmugavfugavtgbmvbgtksgvoklugvzugqraugvl gornugquoo,gqmkau
gggggrlnuabu gfklutgragnrar.ougrlg.uvsbrpsognroovaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg15,g42j]

Vgxzuvbg uvogouaagqkso gauznugftgbszlgquoogulksxmjgg‘Bragulksxmgpkzgfu,
sl uzgpkzbslu’agpvnksz,gbkgwzuwvzugftauopgpkzgmuzg raxzviu,gvl ,g.urlxgvb
ftguvau,gbkgzuwzuaulbgbkgftauop,gvagpvzgvagftgrfvxrlvbrklgivlgabzubim,
bmugroogbkgikfu;gvagqug kgvbgyksabagvl gbrobrlxa,gqmuzugqugikslbuzpurb
qvzgrlgbmugxzuvbuabgivofgkpgwuviujggRg kglkbgbmrlcgVziuarovsagbmu
wmrokakwmuzgbmugouaagbufwuzvbugvl gnrzbsksagpkzgclkqrlxgbmvbgmugfv ugsau
kpgxko gvl garonuzgnuaauoa,gqmulgbmugikl rbrklgkpgmragpkzbslugvookqu gmrf
akgbkg k;gRgmvnugrl uu gvg.ubbuzgkwrlrklgkpgmrfgbmvlgrpgmugmv g ulru 
mrfauopgqmvbgmugsau gqrbmgor.uzvorbtgvl gfk uzvbrkljggRgauugbmugsbfkab
orfrbagkpglvbszvogluiuaarbt:gvl giklar uzrlxgvgwkkzgfvlg.uxxrlxgvbgft
 kkz,gkpbbrfuagfkzugykisl gvl gfkzugmuvobmtgbmvlgRgftauopgvf,gRgwsb
ftauopgrlbkgmragwoviu,gvl gvbbufwbgbkg zuaagftgfrl gvpbuzgmragfk u;
vl gzsllrlx,grlgorcugfvlluz,gknuzgkbmuzguhvfwoua,gbmksxmgRgpvlitg uvbm,
wknuzbt,giklbufwb,gvl garicluaagbzuv rlxgklgftgmuuoa,gRguvarotgzuakonu
lkbgbkg.ugvppzrxmbu ,gpkzvafsimgvagvgouaagbmvlgRgbvcuagbmufgqrbmgakgfsim
wvbruliu;gvl gvfglkbgqroorlxgbkg.uorunugbmvbgvgouaagsl uzabvl rlxgivlg k
fkzugbmvlgvgxzuvbuz,gkzgbmvbgbmuguppuibagkpgwzuiuwbgivllkbgvzzrnugbkgva
xzuvbgvgmurxmbgvagbmkaugkpgisabkfjggVl gclkqrlxgkpgmkqgsliuzbvrlg szvbrkl
bmuaugviir ulbvogiklnulruliuagvzu,gRglunuzgpkzxub,grlgbmugmurxmbgkpgvoo
ftgulyktfulba,gbkgfvcugrbgftgimrupuabgwzvtuzgbkgVofrxmbtgXk ,gbmvbgMu
qroogwouvaugbkgzul uzgfugiklbulbgqrbmgftauopgvl gbmugikl rbrklgqmuzurlgR
vfjggRgauugtkslxgfulgnuztgxvtgvl gpzkori,gqmkglunuzbmuouaagcuuwgvgfvaagkp
wrooagrlgbmurzgbzslcgvbgmkfu,gbkgbvcugqmulgbmut’nugxkbgvgiko ,gqmrimgbmut
puvzgakgfsimgbmugouaa,g.uivsaugbmutgbmrlcgbmutgmvnugzufu tgvbgmvl j
Unuztgklugamkso g kgrlgorcugfvlluz,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,grpgbmutgprl 
bmufauonuagas.yuibgbkgakfugfkzugnrkoulbg rauvau,gamkso gpszlram
bmufauonuagqrbmgasimgfu rirluagvagfvtglsf.gvl gabswuptgbmugwvzbj

Bmugufwoktfulbgvgfvlgamkso gimkkaugpkzgasimgvgorpugksxmbglurbmuzgbkg.ugv
ov.kzrksaglkzgvlgslwouvarlxgklu;gkbmuzqraug‘bragbkglkgwszwkaugvbgvoogbk
.ugzubrzu jggVl gbmrag uwul agswklgunuztgklu’agorcrlxgvl gmsfkszjggFrlu
mvaglkgfvlluzgkpgikfwoviulitgpkzgmsa.vl zt,gvl gasimgvagoknugrbgksxmbgbk
vwwotgbmufauonuagbkgrbgqrbmgfk uzvbrkl:

gggggggggg[“Ul uvnkszgbkgfvcugirzisfabvliuagas.yuibgbkgfu,
ggggggggggvl glkbgfugas.yuibgbkgirzisfabvliuaj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjgr,g19j]

Msa.vl ztgragkbmuzqraugvgnuztgauznrougufwoktfulb,gvagAvoosabgivooagrb;
bmksxmgakfugwvzbagkpgrbgvzugfkzuguhisav.ougbmvlgbmugzuab,gvagbmugivzugkp
xvz ula,gqmrimgHulkwmklgvbbzr.sbuagbkgItzsa;gvl gvgfuvlgfvtg.ugpksl gksb
.ubqrhbgbmugakz r gvl gokqgvwworivbrkl,gakgpsoogkpgwuzwubsvogakorirbs u,
qmrimgragauulgrlgfulgqmkgfvcugrbgbmurzgulbrzug.sarluaagvl gabs t,gvl gbmu
abswr gvl guhbzufugluxorxuliu,goubbrlxgvoogbmrlxagxkgvbgzvl kfgqmrimgqu
auugrlgkbmuza

gggggggggggggggggggg“ ufkizrbrgwuisagu rbgvxuooka
ggggggggggIsobvesu,g sfgwuzuxzuguabgvlrfsagarlugikzwkzugnuokhj”

ggggg[“ ufkizrbsa’givbbouguvbgmragikzlgvl gawkrogmragpruo a,gqmroabgmra
gggggakvzrlxgfrl gzvlxuagv.zkv gqrbmksbgbmug.k tj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,gr,g12,g12j]

.sbgoubgsagmuvzgqmvbgv nriugbmugtkslxuzgWorltgxrnuagmragpzrul gIvlrlrsa
Zspsagswklgbmugas.yuibgkpgakorbs u:g“Rgv nraugbmuu,grlgbmugpsoogvl 
woulbrpsogzubrzufulbgqmuzurlgbmksgvzb,gbkgouvnugbkgbmtgmrl agbmugivzugkp
bmtgmsa.vl zt,gvl gbkgv  ribgbmtauopgbkgbmugabs tgkpgoubbuza,gbkguhbzvib
pzkfgbmuliugakfubmrlxgbmvbgfvtg.ugulbrzuotgvl gv.akosbuotgbmrlugkqlj”gg.t
qmrimgmugfuvlagzuwsbvbrkl;gorcugIriuzk,gqmkgavtagbmvbgmugqkso gufwoktgmra
akorbs ugvl gzubrzufulbgpzkfgws.origvppvrzagbkgviesrzug.tgmragqzrbrlxagvl
rffkzbvogorpuj

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Saesugv uklu
ggggggggggAirzugbssf,glrmroguab,glrargbkgairzugmki,gairvbgvobuz?”

gggggggggg[“Ragvoogbmvbgbmtgouvzlrlxglkbmrlx,gslouaagvlkbmuzgclkqa
ggggggggggbmvbgbmksgclkquab?”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grjg23j]

Rbgvwwuvzagbkg.ugzuvakl,gqmulgvgfvlgbvocagkpgzubrzrlxgpzkfgbmugqkzo ,
bmvbgmugamkso gokkcgesrbugksbgkpg[pkz]gmrfauopjggBmuaug kgrbg.sbg.t
mvonua:gbmutg uarxlgquoogulksxmgpkzgbmufauonuagqmulgbmutgamvoog.uglkgfkzu
rlgrb;g.sbgabroogbmutgwzubul gbkguhbzvibgbmugpzsrbagkpgbmvbg uarxlgpzkf
bmugqkzo ,gqmulgv.aulbgpzkfgrb,g.tgvgzr risoksagiklbzv ribrklj

Bmugrfvxrlvbrklgkpgbmkaugqmkgauucgakorbs ugswklgbmugviikslbgkpg unkbrkl,
proorlxgbmurzgmkwuagvl gikszvxugqrbmgiuzbvrlbtgkpg rnrlugwzkfrauagrlgbmu
kbmuzgorpu,gragfsimgfkzugzvbrklvootgpksl u jggBmutgwzkwkaugbkgbmufauonua
Xk ,gvlgrlprlrbugk.yuibgrlgxkk luaagvl gwkquz;gbmugaksogmvagbmuzu
qmuzuqrbmvo,gvbgpsoogor.uzbt,gbkgavbrvbugmuzg uarzua:gvpporibrklagvl 
asppuzrlxagbszlgbkgbmurzgv nvlbvxu,g.urlxgsl uzxklugpkzgbmugviesrarbrkl
kpgubuzlvogmuvobmgvl gykt;g uvbmgragbkg.ugqramu gvl goklxu gpkz,gqmuzugrb
ragbmugwvaavxugbkgakgwuzpuibgvgikl rbrkl;gbmugvawuzrbtgkpgbmugzsouagbmut
rfwkaugswklgbmufauonuagragrffu rvbuotgakpbulu g.tgisabkf,gvl gvoogbmurz
ivzlvogvwwubrbuag.vppou gvl gas. su ,g.tgzupsarlxgbkgmsfkszgvl gpuu 
bmuf,gbmuaug.urlxgklotgaswwkzbu g.tgsaugvl guhuziraujggBmragakougul gkp
vlkbmuzgmvwwrotgrffkzbvogorpugragbmvbgqmrimgzuvootgfuzrbagbmvbgqugamkso 
v.vl klgbmugwouvaszuagvl giklnulruliuagkpgbmra;gvl gmugqmkgivlgzuvootgvl 
iklabvlbotgrlpovfugmragaksogqrbmgbmugvz kszgkpgbmragnrnr gpvrbmgvl gmkwu,
uzuibagpkzgmrfauopgrlgakorbs ugvgfkzugnkoswbsksagvl g uorirksagorpugbmvl
vltgkbmuzgakzbgkpguhrabuliuj

Lurbmuzgbmugul ,gbmul,glkzgbmugfuvlagkpgbmragv nriugwouvauagfu,gpkzgqu
kpbulgpvoogksbgkpgbmugpztrlx-wvlgrlbkgbmugprzuj--[kz:gqugvoqvtagzuovwau
roogpzkfgpunuzgrlbkgpunuzj]--Bmragg.kkc-ufwoktfulbgragvagwvrlpsogvagvlt
kbmuz,gvl gvagxzuvbgvlguluftgbkgmuvobm,gqmrimgksxmbgbkg.ugbmugprzabgbmrlx
iklar uzu ;glurbmuzgksxmbgvgfvlgbkg.ugvooszu gqrbmgbmugwouvaszugkpgrb,
qmrimgragbmugavfugbmvbg uabzktagbmugpzsxvo,gbmugvnvzrirksa,gbmu
nkoswbsksa,gvl gbmugvf.rbrksagfvlj

ggggg[“Bmragwok  rlxgkiiswvbrklgkpg.kkcuagragvagwvrlpsoogvagvltgkbmuz,
gggggvl gvagxzuvbgvlgulufrugnlbkgmuvobm,gqmrimgksxmbgwzrlirwvootgbkg.u
gggggiklar uzu jggVl gvgfvlgamkso glkbgasppuzgmrfgauopugbkg.ugrlnuvxou 
ggggg.tgbmugwouvaszugmugbvcuagrlgbmufj”--Pokzrk,gu rbjg1613,gwjg122j]

Bmugavxuagxrnugsagivsbrklgulksxmgbkg.uqvzugbmugbzuvimuztgkpgkszg uarzua,
vl gbkg rabrlxsramgbzsugvl gulbrzugwouvaszuagpzkfgasimgvagvzugfrhu gvl 
ikfworivbu gqrbmgxzuvbuzgwvrljggPkzgbmugfkabgkpgkszgwouvaszua,gavtgbmut,
qmuu ougvl givzuaagklotgbkgabzvlxougsa,gorcugbmkaugbmrunuagbmugUxtwbrvla
ivoou gWmrorabvu;grpgbmugmuv vimugamkso gikfug.upkzug zslculluaa,gqu
amkso gmvnugvgivzugkpg zrlcrlxgbkkgfsim;g.sbgwouvaszu,gbkg uiurnugsa,
fvzimuag.upkzugvl gikliuvoagmuzgbzvrljgg.kkcagvzugwouvavlb,g.sbgrp,g.t
.urlxgknuz-abs rksa,gqugrfwvrzgkszgmuvobmgvl gawkrogkszgxkk msfksz,gbmu
.uabgwruiuagqugmvnu,goubgsagxrnugrbgknuz;gR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gvfgklugkpgbmkau
qmkgbmrlc,gbmvbglkgpzsrbg uzrnu gpzkfgbmufgivlgzuikfwulaugakgxzuvbgv
okaajggVagfulgqmkgmvnugoklxgpuobgbmufauonuagquvculu g.tgrl rawkarbrkl,
xrnugbmufauonuagswgvbgovabgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgfu rirlugvl gas.frbgbkgiuzbvrl
zsouagkpgornrlx,gqmrimgbmutgvzugpkzgbmugpsbszuglunuzgbkgbzvlaxzuaa;gakgmu
qmkgzubrzua,gquvztgkpgvl g raxsabu gqrbmgbmugikffklgqvtgkpgornrlx,gksxmb
bkgfk uogbmragluqgklugmugulbuzagrlbkg.tgbmugzsouagkpgzuvakl,gvl gbk
rlabrbsbugvl guabv.oramgrbg.tgwzufu rbvbrklgvl gzupouibrkljggMugksxmbgbk
mvnugbvculgouvnugkpgvoogakzbagkpgov.ksz,gqmvbgv nvlbvxugakunuzgrbgfvt
wzkfrau,gvl gxuluzvootgbkgmvnugamvculgkppgvoogbmkaugwvaarklagqmrim
 rabsz.gbmugbzvlesroorbtgkpg.k tgvl gakso,gvl gbmulgimkkaugbmugqvtgbmvb
.uabgasrbagqrbmgmragkqlgmsfksz:

ggggggggggggggg“Slsaesraesugasvglknuzrbgrzugnrvj”

Rlgmsa.vl zt,gabs t,gmslbrlx,gvl gvoogkbmuzguhuziraua,gfulgvzugbkgwzkiuu 
bkgbmugsbfkabgorfrbagkpgwouvaszu,g.sbgfsabgbvcugmuu gkpgulxvxrlxgpszbmuz,
qmuzugbzks.oug.uxrlagbkgfrhgqrbmgrbjggQugvzugbkgzuauznugakgfsim
ufwoktfulbgklotgvagragluiuaavztgbkgcuuwgsagrlg.zuvbmgvl gbkg upul gsa
pzkfgbmugrliklnulruliuagbmvbgbmugkbmuzguhbzufugkpgvg soogvl gabswr 
ovdrluaag.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrbjggBmuzugvzugabuzrougclkbbtgairuliua,
imrupotgmvffuzu gksbgpkzgbmugizkq ;goubgasimg.ugoupbgbkgbmufgqmkgvzu
ulxvxu grlgbmugqkzo ’agauznriujggRgpkzgftgwvzbgivzugpkzglkgkbmuzg.kkca,
.sbgurbmuzgasimgvagvzugwouvavlbgvl guvat,gbkgvfsaugfu,gkzgbmkaugbmvb
ikfpkzbgvl grlabzsibgfugmkqgbkgzuxsovbugftgorpugvl g uvbm:

ggggggggggggggg“Bvirbsfgatonvagrlbuzgzuwbvzugavos.zua,
gggggggggggggggIszvlbuf,gesr esr g rxlsfgavwrulbrg.klkesuguabj”

ggggg[“Aroulbotgfu rbvbrlxgrlgbmugmuvobmtgxzknua,gqmvbunuzgragqkzbmt
gggggkpgvgqraugvl gxkk gfvlj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg4,g4j]

Qrauzgful,gmvnrlxgxzuvbgpkziugvl gnrxkszgkpgakso,gfvtgwzkwkaugbk
bmufauonuagvgzuabgqmkootgawrzrbsvog.sbgpkzgfu,gqmkgmvnugvgnuztgkz rlvzt
akso,grbgragnuztgluiuaavztgbkgaswwkzbgftauopgqrbmg.k rotgiklnulruliua;
vl gvxugmvnrlxgkpgovbug uwzrnu gfugkpgbmkaugwouvaszuagbmvbgquzugfkzu
viiuwbv.ougbkgfu,gRgrlabzsibgvl gqmubgftgvwwubrbugbkgbmkaugbmvbgzufvrl,
fkzugasrbv.ougbkgbmragkbmuzgzuvakljggQugksxmbgbkgmko gqrbmgvoogkszgpkziu,
.kbmgkpgmvl agvl gbuubm,gbmugsaugkpgbmugwouvaszuagkpgorpugbmvbgkszgtuvza,
klugvpbuzgvlkbmuz,galvbimgvqvtgpzkfgsa:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Ivzwvfsag soirv;glkabzsfguab,
gggggggggggggggEsk gnrnra;girlra,gubgfvlua,gubgpv.sovgpruaj”

ggggg[“Oubgsagwosicgorpu’agaquuba,g‘bragpkzgbmufgqugornu:g.tgvl g.tgqu
gggggamvoog.ugvamua,gvgxmkab,gvgfuzugas.yuibgkpgbvocj”
gggggg--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,gnjg151j]

Lkq,gvagbkgbmugul gbmvbgWorltgvl gIriuzkgwzkwkaugbkgsagkpgxokzt,g‘bra
rlprlrbuotgqr ugkpgftgviikslbjggVf.rbrklgragkpgvoogkbmuzagbmugfkab
iklbzvztgmsfkszgbkgakorbs u;gxokztgvl gzuwkaugvzugbmrlxagbmvbgivllkb
wkaar.otgrlmv.rbgrlgklugvl gbmugavfugwoviujggPkzgakgfsimgvagRgsl uzabvl ,
bmuaugmvnugklotgbmurzgvzfagvl gouxag raulxvxu gpzkfgbmugizkq ;gbmurzgakso
vl grlbulbrklgzufvrlgiklprlu g.umrl gfkzugbmvlgunuz:

gggggggggg“Bsl’,gnubsou,gvszrisoragvorulragikoorxraguaiva?”

ggggg[“ kabgbmks,gbmul,gko gfvl,gikoouibgpkk gpkzgkbmuza’guvza?”
gggggg--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grjg22j]

bmutgmvnugklotgzubrzu gbkgbvcugvg.ubbuzgouvw,gvl g.tgvgabzklxuzgfkbrklgbk
xrnugvg.zracuzgimvzxugrlbkgbmugizkq jggQroogtksgauugmkqgbmutgamkkbgamkzb?
Oubgsagwsbgrlbkgbmugikslbuzwkraugbmugv nriugkpgbqkgwmrokakwmuza,gkpgbqk
nuztg rppuzulbgauiba,gqzrbrlx,gbmugklugbkgR kfulusa,gbmugkbmuzgbk
Osirorsa,gbmurzgpzrul a,gbkgzubrzugrlbkgakorbs ugpzkfgqkzo otgmklkszagvl 
vppvrzajgg“Tksgmvnu,”gavtgbmut,g“mrbmuzbkgornu gaqrffrlxgvl gpokvbrlx;
ikfuglkqgvl g rugrlgbmugmvz.ksz:gtksgmvnugxrnulgbmugprzabgwvzbgkpgtksz
orpugbkgbmugorxmb,gxrnugqmvbgzufvrlagbkgbmugamv ujggRbgragrfwkaar.ougbk
xrnugknuzg.sarluaa,grpgtksg kglkbgvoakgesrbgbmugpzsrb;gbmuzupkzu
 raulxvxugtkszauonuagpzkfgvoogikliuzlgkpglvfugvl gxokzt;g‘bragbkg.u
puvzu gbmugosabzugkpgtkszgpkzfuzgvibrklagqroogxrnugtksg.sbgbkkgfsim
orxmb,gvl gpkookqgtksgrlbkgtkszgfkabgwzrnvbugzubzuvbjggEsrbgqrbmgkbmuz
wouvaszuagbmvbgqmrimgwzkiuu agpzkfgbmugvwwzk.vbrklgkpgvlkbmuzgfvl:gvl gva
bkgtkszgclkqou xugvl gwvzba,glunuzgikliuzlgtkszauonua;gbmutgqrooglkbgokau
bmurzguppuibgrpgtkszauonuag.ugbmug.ubbuzgpkzgbmufjggZufuf.uzgmrf,gqmk
.urlxgvacu gqmtgmugbkkcgakgfsimgwvrlagrlgvlgvzbgbmvbgikso gikfugbkgbmu
clkqou xugkpg.sbgpuqgwuzakla?gg‘Vgpuqgvzugulksxmgpkzgfu,’gzuworu gmu;
‘Rgmvnugulksxmgqrbmgklu;gRgmvnugulksxmgqrbmglunuzgvlgkluj’--[Auluiv,gUwj,
7j]--Mugavr gbzsu;gtksgvl gvgikfwvlrklgvzugbmuvbzugulksxmgbkgklu
vlkbmuz,gkzgtksgbkgtkszauopjggOubgbmugwukwoug.ugbkgtksgklu,gvl g.ugtks
klugbkgbmugqmkougwukwoujgg‘Bragvlgslqkzbmtgvf.rbrklgbkgbmrlcgbkg uzrnu
xokztgpzkfgvgfvl’agaokbmgvl gwzrnvit:gtksgvzugbkg kgorcugbmug.uvabagkp
imvau,gqmkguppviugbmugbzvicgvbgbmugulbzvliugrlbkgbmurzg uljggTksgvzuglk
fkzugbkgikliuzlgtkszauopgmkqgbmugqkzo gbvocagkpgtks,g.sbgmkqgtksgvzugbk
bvocgbkgtkszauopjggZubrzugtkszauopgrlbkgtkszauop,g.sbgprzabgwzuwvzu
tkszauopgbmuzugbkgzuiurnugtkszauop:grbgquzugvgpkootgbkgbzsabgtkszauopgrl
tkszgkqlgmvl a,grpgtksgivllkbgxknuzlgtkszauopjggVgfvlgfvtgfraivzztgvoklu
vagquoogvagrlgikfwvltjggBroogtksgmvnugzul uzu gtkszauopgklug.upkzugqmkf
tksg vzuglkbgbzrw,gvl gbroogtksgmvnugvg.vampsoluaagvl gzuawuibgpkz
tkszauop,

ggggggggggggggg“K.nuzaulbszgawuiruagmkluabvugvlrfk;”

gggggggggg[“Oubgmkluabgbmrlxag.ugunuzgwzuaulbgbkgbmugfrl ”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg22j]

wzuaulbgiklbrlsvootgbkgtkszgrfvxrlvbrklgIvbk,gWmkirkl,gvl gVzrabr ua,grl
qmkaugwzuauliugbmugpkkoagbmufauonuagqroogmr ugbmurzgpvsoba,gvl gfvcugbmuf
iklbzkoouzagkpgvoogtkszgrlbulbrkla;gamkso gbmuaug unrvbugpzkfgnrzbsu,
tkszgzuawuibgbkgbmkaugqroogaubgtksgzrxmb;gbmutgqroogcuuwgtksgrlgbmragqvt
bkg.ugiklbulbu gqrbmgtkszauop;gbkg.kzzkqglkbmrlxgkpgvltgkbmuzg.sb
tkszauop;gbkgabvtgvl gprhgtkszgaksogrlgiuzbvrlgvl gorfrbu gbmksxmba,
qmuzurlgamugfvtgwouvaugmuzauop,gvl gmvnrlxgsl uzabkk gbmugbzsugvl gzuvo
xkk a,gqmrimgfulgbmugfkzugulyktgbmugfkzugbmutgsl uzabvl ,gbkgzuab
avbrapru ,gqrbmksbg uarzugkpgwzkoklxvbrklgkpgorpugkzglvfuj”ggBmragragbmu
wzuiuwbgkpgbmugbzsugvl glvbszvogwmrokakwmt,glkbgkpgvg.kvabrlxgvl gwzvbrlx
wmrokakwmt,gasimgvagbmvbgkpgbmugbqkgpkzfuzj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgfvlgfsabgurbmuzgrfrbvbugbmugnrirksagkzgmvbugbmuf
gggggV.mkzzuliugkpgbmugwvbrulbgvzugluiuaavztgirzisfabvliua
gggggViesrzug.tgmragqzrbrlxagvlgrffkzbvogorpu
gggggV  ribgbmtauopgbkgbmugabs tgkpgoubbuza
gggggVoqvtagbmugwuzpuibgzuorxrkl
gggggVl gmvbugmrfgakgvagtksgquzugklug vtgbkgoknugmrf
gggggVzimuzgbmvbgamkkbagknuz,gfraauagvagfsimgvagmugbmvbgpvooagamkzb
gggggVzbgbmvbgikso gikfugbkgbmugclkqou xugkpg.sbgpuqgwuzakla
ggggg.urlxgknuz-abs rksa,gqugrfwvrzgkszgmuvobmgvl gawkrogkszgmsfksz
ggggg.tgbmugfrauztgkpgbmragorpu,gvrfrlxgvbg.oraagrlgvlkbmuz
gggggIvzlvogvwwubrbuagklotgaswwkzbu g.tgsaugvl guhuzirau
gggggIkfrlxgksbgkpgbmugavfugmkou
gggggIkffklgpzrul amrwagqroogv frbgkpg rnrarkl
ggggg kabgbmks,gbmul,gko gfvl,gikoouibgpkk gpkzgkbmuza’guvza?
gggggUrbmuzgbzvlesrogorpu,gkzgmvwwtg uvbm
gggggUlaovnugkszgkqlgiklbulbfulbgbkgbmugwkquzgkpgvlkbmuz?
gggggUlbuzbvrlgsagqrbmgpv.oua:gvabzkokxuzagvl gwmtarirvla
gggggUnuztbmrlxgmvagfvltgpviuagvl gaunuzvogvawuiba
gggggUhbzufrbtgkpgwmrokakwmtgragmszbpso
gggggPzrul amrwagbmvbgbmugovqgvl glvbszvogk.orxvbrklgrfwkaugswklgsa
gggggXuqxvqgbkgmvlxgrlgvgiv.rlubgkzgvbgbmugul gkpgbmugbklxsu
gggggXzvbrptgbmugxk agvl glvbszug.tgfvaavizugvl gfsz uz
gggggMugbkkcgmrfauopgvoklxgqrbmgmrf
gggggMugqroogimkkaugbkg.ugvoklu
gggggMuv vimugamkso gikfug.upkzug zslculluaa
gggggMrxmgbrfugbkg rugqmulgbmuzugragfkzugroogbmvlgxkk grlgornrlx
gggggMklkszgkpgnvokszgiklarabagrlgprxmbrlx,glkbgrlgas. srlx
gggggMkqgsliuzbvrlg szvbrklgbmuaugviir ulbvogiklnulruliuagvzu
gggggRg.uesuvbmgbkgVzubusagbmugfvrlbulvliugkpgftgfkbmuz
gggggRgpkzgftgwvzbgvoqvtagqulbgbmugwovrlgqvtgbkgqkzcj
gggggRgoknugbufwuzvbugvl gfk uzvbuglvbszuaj
gggggRfwkabszua:gnuztgabzvlxuluaagoul agbmufgizu rb
gggggRlgakorbs u,g.ugikfwvltgpkzgbmtauopj--Br.soosa
gggggRlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbmurzgmvonuagquzug.uxxrlxgvbgbmurzg kkza
gggggRlbuz ribgvoogxrpbag.ubqrhbgfvlgvl gqrpu
gggggRbgrag.ubbuzgbkg rugbmvlgbkgornugfrauzv.ou
gggggYs xug.tgbmugutugkpgzuvakl,gvl glkbgpzkfgikffklgzuwkzb
gggggClkbgraglkbgakgaszugbmvbgvgfvlgfvtglkbgmvopgasawuibgrbgqroogaorw
gggggOvairnrksagwkub:gMkfuz
gggggOvtrlxgbmufauonuagokqgbkgvnkr gbmug vlxuzgkpgpvoorlx
gggggOuvnugakirubtgqmulgqugivlglkgoklxuzgv  gvltbmrlxgbkgrb
gggggOrbbougouaagbzks.ougrlgxknuzlrlxgvgwzrnvbugpvfrotgbmvlgvgcrlx kf
gggggOknugqug.uvzgbkgkszgqrnuagragnuztgovqpso
gggggFvlg(fsab)gclkqgbmvbgmugragmragkql
gggggFvzzrvxu
gggggFulgamkso gpszlramgbmufauonuagqrbmgasimgbmrlxagvagqkso gpokvb
gggggFubmrlcagRgvfglkgfkzugbmvlgmvopgkpgftauop
gggggFsabgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgulbuzbvrlgkszauonuagqrbmgkszauonua
gggggLunuzgzuwzuaulbgbmrlxagbkgtksgarfwotgvagbmutgvzu
gggggLkguppuibgkpgnrzbsu,gbkgmvnugabzklxuzgvzfagvl gouxa
gggggLkbgrlgvgikl rbrklgbkgoul gfsabgpkz.r gmrfauopgbkg.kzzkq
gggggLkbmrlxgragakgprzfotg.uorunu ,gvagqmvbgqugouvabgclkq
gggggKgftgpzrul a,gbmuzugraglkgpzrul :gVzrabkbou
gggggKpbulbrfuagvxrbvbu gqrbmg rnuzagwvaarkla
gggggKz rlvztgpzrul amrwa,gtksgvzugbkgqvocgqrbmg.zr ougrlgtkszgmvl 
gggggKsxmbglkbgklotgbkgmvnugmragmvl a,g.sbgmragutua,gbkk,gimvabu
gggggKszgys xfulbagvzugtubgaric
gggggWuzpuibgpzrul amrwgRgawuvcgkpgragrl rnrar.ou
gggggWmrokakwmt
gggggWmsarirvlagiszug.tg.tgfrauztgvl gwvrl
gggggWzupuzgrlg.u ,g.uvsbtg.upkzugxkk luaa
gggggWzubul rlxgbkgprl gksbgbmugivsaugkpgunuztgviir ulb
gggggZuwsbvbrkl:gfkabgsauouaa,gpzrnkoksa,gvl gpvoaugikrlgbmvbgwvaaua
gggggZuauznugvg.vicamkw,gqmkootgkszgkqlgvl gulbrzuotgpzuu
gggggZuabgavbrapru ,gqrbmksbg uarzugkpgwzkoklxvbrklgkpgorpugkzglvfu
gggggAbrowkgokabgqrpu,gimro zul,gvl gxkk a
gggggAbrowk:gbmvlcgXk ,glkbmrlxgqvagokabgkpgmra
gggggBvcugbqkgakzbagkpgxzrabgksbgkpgbmugavfugavic
gggggBvcrlxgbmrlxagswklgbzsabgpzkfgnsoxvzgkwrlrkl
gggggBuvzrlxgvg.k tgorf.gpzkfgorf.g.tgzvicagvl gbkzfulba
gggggBmugiklauesuliugkpgikffklguhvfwoua
gggggBmuzugvzug upuvbagfkzugbzrsfwmvlbgbmvlgnribkzrua
gggggBmutgivlglurbmuzgoul glkzgxrnugvltbmrlxgbkgklugvlkbmuz
gggggBmutgmvnugtubgbksimu glkbmrlxgkpgbmvbgqmrimgragfrlu
gggggBmutgfsabg.ugnuztgmvz gbkgwouvau,grpgbmutgvzuglkbgiklbulbu 
gggggBmrlxagbmvbgulxvxugsaguoauqmuzugvl gauwvzvbugsagpzkfgkszauonua
gggggBmrag uivtgkpglvbszugqmrimgzul uzagmrfgsauouaa,g.sz ulakfu
gggggBmragwok  rlxgkiiswvbrklgkpg.kkcuagragvagwvrlpsoogvagvltgkbmuz
gggggBmkaugrffk uabgvl g u.vsimu gbzricagvl gwkabszua
gggggBmksxmgRg.ugulxvxu gbkgklugpkzfu,gRg kglkbgbrugbmugqkzo gslbkgrb
gggggBrbougkpg.vz.vzrafgbkgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgraglkbgpvfrorvz
gggggBkgxrnugvgiszzulitgbkgmragorbbougwrbbvliugkpgouvzlrlx
gggggBkgfvcugbmurzgwzrnvbugv nvlbvxugvbgbmugws.origuhwulau
gggggSl uzgpkzbslu’agpvnksz,gbkgwzuwvzugftauopgpkzgmuzg raxzviu
gggggNriugkpgiklprlrlxgbmurzg.uorupgbkgbmurzgkqlgivwvirbt
gggggQugmvnugornu gulksxmgpkzgkbmuza
gggggQugmvnugfkzugiszrkarbtgbmvlgivwvirbt
gggggQugabroogivzztgkszgpubbuzagvoklxgqrbmgsa
gggggQmulgbrfug.uxrlagbkgquvzgbmrlxagksbgkpgfufkzt
gggggQmuzunuzgbmugfrl gragwuzwouhu ,grbgragrlgvlgulbrzug rakz uz
gggggQmkgivlggpouugpzkfgmrfauop
gggggQraugfvlglunuzgokauagvltbmrlxgrpgmugmvnugmrfauop
gggggQraugqmkaugrlnuabu gfklutgragnrar.ougrlg.uvsbrpsognroova
gggggQzrbugqmvbgmugclkqa,gvl gvagfsimgvagmugclkqa,g.sbglkgfkzu
gggggTksgvl gikfwvlrklgvzugbmuvbzugulksxmgbkgklugvlkbmuz






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg7j

HHHRHjggggVgiklar uzvbrklgswklgIriuzkj
HOjgggggggBmvbgbmugzuoramgkpgxkk gvl gunrog uwul agrlgvgxzuvbgfuvaszu
ggggggggggswklgkwrlrklj
HORjggggggLkbgbkgikffslrivbugvgfvl’agmklkszj
HORRjgggggKpgbmugrluesvorbtgvfklxabgsaj
HORRRjggggKpgasfwbsvztgovqaj
HORNjgggggKpgaouuwj
HONjggggggKpgbmug.vbbougkpg zushj
HONRjgggggKpglvfuaj
HONRRjggggKpgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgkszgys xfulbj



IMVWBUZgHHHRH

VgIKLAR UZVBRKLgSWKLgIRIUZK

Klugqkz gfkzug.tgqvtgkpgikfwvzraklg.ubqrhbgbmuaugbqkjggBmuzugvzugbkg.u
xvbmuzu gksbgkpgbmugqzrbrlxagkpgIriuzkgvl gbmugtkslxuzgWorltg(.sbgorbbou,
rlgftgkwrlrkl,gzuauf.orlxgmragsliougrlgmragmsfksza)grlprlrbugbuabrfklrua
kpgvg.utkl gfuvaszugvf.rbrksaglvbszu;gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,gbmragpkzgklu,
bmvbgbmutg.kbm,grlgbmugarxmbgkpgvoogbmugqkzo ,gakorirbgbmugmrabkzrvlagkp
bmurzgbrfuglkbgbkgpkzxubgbmufgrlgbmurzgfufkrza;gvl gpkzbslu,gvagrpgrl
awrbu,gmvagfv ugbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmkaugzuesuabagornugswklgzuikz g kqlgbk
bmragvxugkpgksza,gqmrougamugmvagoklxgarliugiklarxlu gbmugmrabkzrua
bmufauonuagbkgk.ornrkljgg.sbgbmraguhiuu agvoogfuvlluaagkpgawrzrbgrl
wuzaklagkpgasimgvgesvorbtgvagbmutgquzu,gbkgbmrlcgbkg uzrnugvltgxzuvb
zulkqlgpzkfg.v..orlxgvl gwzvbrlx;gunulgbkgbmugws.oramrlxgkpgbmurzgwzrnvbu
oubbuzagbkgbmurzgpzrul a,gvl gakgqrbmvo,gbmvbgbmksxmgakfugkpgbmufgquzu
lunuzgaulb,gbmugkwwkzbslrbtg.urlxgokab,gbmutglunuzbmuouaagwzuaulbu gbmuf
bkgbmugorxmb,gqrbmgbmragqkzbmtguhisaugbmvbgbmutgquzugslqroorlxgbkgokau
bmurzgov.kszagvl gosis.zvbrklajggQvagrbglkbgnuztgquoog.uikfrlxgbqk
iklasoagkpgZkfu,gaknuzurxlgfvxrabzvbuagkpgbmugzuws.origbmvbgikffvl u 
bmugqkzo ,gbkgawul gbmurzgouraszugrlgiklbzrnrlxgesvrlbgvl guouxvlb
fraarnua,gbmuliugbkgxvrlgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpg.urlxgnuzau grlgbmurzgkql
fkbmuz-bklxsua?ggQmvbgikso gvgwrbrpsogaimkkofvabuzgmvnug klugqkzau,gqmkau
bzv ugrbgqvagbmuzu.tgbkgxubgmragornrlx?ggRpgbmugvibagkpgHulkwmklgvl 
Ivuavzgmv glkbgpvzgbzvlaiul u gbmurzguokesuliu,gRgaivziug.uorunugbmut
qkso gunuzgmvnugbvculgbmugwvrlagbkgmvnugqzrbbulgbmuf;gbmutgfv ugrbgbmurz
.sarluaagbkgzuikfful glkbgbmurzgawuvcrlx,g.sbgbmurzg krlxjggVl gikso gbmu
wuzpuibrklgkpguokesuliugmvnugv  u gvgosabzugasrbv.ougbkgvgxzuvb
wuzaklvxu,giuzbvrlotgAirwrkgvl gOvuorsagmv glunuzgzuarxlu gbmugmklkszgkp
bmurzgikfu rua,gqrbmgvoogbmugoshszrvliuagvl guouxvliuagkpgbmugOvbrl
bklxsu,gbkgvlgVpzrivlgaovnu;gpkzgbmvbgbmugqkzcgqvagbmurza,grbag.uvsbtgvl 
uhiuoouliugaspprirulbotg uiovzu;gBuzuliugmrfauopgiklpuaauagvagfsim,gvl gR
amkso gbvcugrbgroogpzkfgvltgklugbmvbgqkso g rawkaauaagfugkpgbmvbg.uorupj

‘Bragvgcrl gkpgfkicuztgvl gkppuliugbkguhbkogvgfvlgpkzgesvorbrua
fra.uikfrlxgmragikl rbrkl,gbmksxmgkbmuzqraugikfful v.ougrlgbmufauonua,
.sbgasimgvagksxmbglkb,gmkqunuz,gbkg.ugmragimrupgbvoulb;gvagrpgvgfvl
amkso gikfful gvgcrlxgpkzg.urlxgvgxkk gwvrlbuz,gvgxkk gvzimrbuib,gvgxkk 
fvzcafvl,gkzgvgxkk gzslluzgvbgbmugzrlx:gikfful vbrklagbmvbgv  glkgmklksz,
slouaagfulbrklu gvobkxubmuzgvl grlgbmugbzvrlgkpgbmkaugbmvbgvzugwzkwuzot
vwworiv.ougbkgmrf,glvfuot,gysabriugvl gbmugairuliugkpgxknuzlrlxgvl 
ikl sibrlxgmragwukwoug.kbmgrlgwuviugvl gqvzjggVbgbmragzvbu,gvxzrisobszu
qvagvlgmklkszgbkgItzsa,gvl guokesuliugvl gbmugclkqou xugkpgoubbuzagbk
ImvzoufvxlujggRgmvnugrlgftgbrfugclkqlgakfu,gqmkg.tgqzrbrlxgviesrzu g.kbm
bmurzgbrbouagvl gpkzbslu,g rakqlgbmurzgvwwzulbriuamrw,gikzzswbgbmurz
abtou,gvl gvppuibgrxlkzvliugrlgakgnsoxvzgvgesvorbtg(qmrimgvoakgkszglvbrkl
mko agbkg.ugzvzuotgauulgrlgnuztgouvzlu gmvl a),gvl gbkgauucgvgzuwsbvbrkl
.tg.ubbuzgesvorbruajgg ufkabmulua’gikfwvlrklagrlgbmuguf.vaatgbkgWmrorw,
uhbkoorlxgbmvbgwzrliugvagmvl akfu,guokesulb,gvl gvgabksbg zrlcuz,
 ufkabmuluagavr gbmvbgbmkaugquzugikfful vbrklagfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgvgqkfvl,
vlgv nkivbu,gkzgvgawklxu,gbmvlgpkzgvgcrlx’:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rfwuzubg.uoovlbugwzrkz,gyviulbuf
ggggggggggggggggggggOulragrlgmkabufj”

ggggg[“Rlgbmugprxmb,gknuzbmzkqgtkszguluft,g.sbg.ugfuzirpsogbkgmrfgqmul
gggggpvooulj--“Mkzviu,gIvzfjgAvuij,gnjg51j]

‘Braglkbgmragwzkpuaarklgbkgclkqgurbmuzgmkqgbkgmslbgkzgbkg vliugquoo;

ggggggggggggggg“Kzv.slbgivsavagvorr,gikuoresugfuvbsa
ggggggggggggggg uaizr.ulbgzv rk,gubgpsoxulbrvgar uzvg riulb;
gggggggggggggggMrigzuxuzugrfwuzrkgwkwsokagairvbj”

ggggg[“Oubgkbmuzagwouv gvbgbmug.vz,gkzg uaizr.ugbmugawmuzua,gvl gwkrlb
gggggksbgbmugxorbbuzrlxgabvza;goubgbmragfvlgouvzlgbkgzsougbmuglvbrklaj”
gggggg--VUlur ,gnrjg849j]

Wosbvzimgavta,gfkzuknuz,gbmvbgbkgvwwuvzgakguhiuooulbgrlgbmuaugouaa
luiuaavztgesvorbruagragbkgwzk siugqrbluaagvxvrlabgvgfvl’agauop,gbmvbgmu
mvagawulbgmragbrfugvl gvwworu gmragabs tgroo,gqmrimgksxmbgbkgmvnug.uul
ufwoktu grlgbmugviesrarbrklgkpgfkzugluiuaavztgvl gfkzugsaupsogbmrlxaj
AkgbmvbgWmrorw,gcrlxgkpgFviu kl,gmvnrlxgmuvz gbmvbgxzuvbgVouhvl uzgmra
aklgarlxgkliugvbgvgpuvabgbkgbmugqkl uzgkpgbmug.uabgfsarirvlagbmuzu:g“Vzb
bmksglkbgvamvfu ,”gavr gmugbkgmrf,g“bkgarlxgakgquoo?”gVl gbkgbmugavfu
Wmrorwgvgfsarirvl,gqrbmgqmkfgmugqvag rawsbrlxgv.ksbgakfugbmrlxa
ikliuzlrlxgmragvzb:g“Muvnulgpkz.r ,garz,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgakgxzuvbgv
frapkzbslugamkso gunuzg.upvoogtksgvagbkgsl uzabvl gbmuaugbmrlxag.ubbuz
bmvlgRj”ggVgcrlxgamkso g.ugv.ougbkgvlaquzgvagRwmrizvbuag r gbmugkzvbkz,
qmkgwzuaau gswklgmrfgrlgmragrlnuibrnugvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:g“Vl gqmvbgvzb
bmksgbmvbgbmksg.zvnuabgrbgvbgbmragzvbu?ggvzbgbmksgvgfvlgvbgvzfa,gvzbgbmks
vlgvzimuz,gvzbgbmksgvgwrcufvl?”--“Rgvfglklugkpgvoogbmra;g.sbgRgclkqgmkq
bkgikffvl gvoogbmuauj”ggVl gVlbrabmuluagbkkcgrbgpkzgvlgvzxsfulbgkpgorbbou
nvosugrlgRafulrvagbmvbgmugqvagikfful u gpkzgwovtrlxguhiuooulbotgquoogswkl
vgposbuj

Rgclkqgnuztgquoo,gbmvbgqmulgRgmuvzgvltgklug quoogswklgbmugovlxsvxugkpgft
uaavta,gRgmv gzvbmuzgvgxzuvbg uvogmugqkso gavtglkbmrlx:g‘braglkbgakgfsim
bkguounvbugbmugabtougvagbkg uwzuaagbmugaulau,gvl gakgfsimgbmugfkzu
kppularnuotgvagbmutg kgrbgk.oresuot;gvl gtubgRgvfgfsimg uiurnu grpgfvlt
kbmuzgqzrbuzag uornuzgfkzugqkzbmglkbrlxgvagbkgbmugfvbbuz,gvl ,gmkqgquoo
kzgroogakunuz,grpgvltgkbmuzgqzrbuzgmvagakqlgbmrlxagfsimgfkzugfvbuzrvoagkz
vbgvoogunulbagfkzug kqlzrxmb,gswklgmragwvwuzgbmvlgftauopjggBkg.zrlxgbmu
fkzugrl,gRgklotgfsabuzgswgbmugmuv a;gamkso gRgvlluhgbmugauesuo,gRgamkso 
bzu.otgfsobrwotgbmugnkosfujggVl gmkqgfvltgabkzruagmvnugRgaivbbuzu gswgvl 
 kqlgrlgbmrag.kkcgbmvbgRgklotgbksimgswkl,gqmrim,gamkso gvltgklugfkzu
iszrksaotgauvzimgrlbk,gbmutgqkso gprl gfvbbuzgulksxmgbkgwzk siugrlprlrbu
uaavtajggLurbmuzgbmkaugabkzruaglkzgftgeskbvbrklagvoqvtagauznugarfwotgpkz
uhvfwou,gvsbmkzrbt,gkzgkzlvfulb;gRg kglkbgklotgzuxvz gbmufgpkzgbmugsaugR
fvcugkpgbmuf:gbmutgivzztgakfubrfuag.uar uagqmvbgRgvwwotgbmufgbk,gbmugauu 
kpgvgfkzugzrimgvl gvg.ko uzgfvbbuz,gvl gakfubrfua,gikoovbuzvoot,gvgfkzu
 uorivbugaksl g.kbmgbkgftauopgqmkgqroogavtglkgfkzugv.ksbgrbgrlgbmra
woviu,gvl gbkgkbmuzagqmkgamvoog.ugkpgftgmsfkszj

.sbgzubszlrlxgbkgbmugawuvcrlxgnrzbsu:gRgprl glkgxzuvbgimkriug.ubqrhbglkb
clkqrlxgbkgawuvcgvltbmrlxg.sbgroo,gvl glkbgclkqrlxgbkgawuvcgvltbmrlxg.sb
quooj

ggggggggggggggg“Lklguabgkzlvfulbsfgnrzrougiklirfrbvaj”

gggggggggg[“Vgivzupsootgvzzvlxu g zuaagraglkgfvlotgkzlvfulbj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g115j]

Bmugavxuagbuoogsagbmvb,gvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagclkqou xu,g‘braglkbmrlxg.sb
wmrokakwmt;gvl gvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlaguppuiba,glkbmrlxg.sbgnrzbsu,gqmrimgra
xuluzvootgwzkwuzgbkgvoog uxzuuagvl gbkgvoogkz uzaj

Bmuzugragakfubmrlxgorcugbmragrlgbmuaugbqkgkbmuzgwmrokakwmuza,gpkzgbmut
voakgwzkfraugubuzlrbtgbkgbmugoubbuzagbmutgqzrbugbkgbmurzgpzrul a;g.sb
‘bragvpbuzgvlkbmuzgfvlluz,gvl g.tgviikffk vbrlxgbmufauonua,gpkzgvgxkk 
ul ,gbkgbmugnvlrbtgkpgvlkbmuz;gpkzgbmutgqzrbugbkgbmufgbmvbgrpgbmugikliuzl
kpgfvcrlxgbmufauonuagclkqlgbkgpsbszugvxua,gvl gbmugbmrzabgkpgxokzt,g k
tubg ubvrlgbmufgrlgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgws.origvppvrza,gvl gfvcugbmufgpuvz
bmugakorbs ugvl gzubrzufulbgbkgqmrimgbmutgqkso gwuzasv ugbmuf,goubgbmuf
lunuzgbzks.ougbmufauonuagfkzugv.ksbgrb,gpkzvafsimgvagbmutgamvoogmvnu
izu rbgulksxmgqrbmgwkabuzrbtgbkgulaszugbmufgbmvbgquzugbmuzuglkbmrlxguoau
.sbgbmugoubbuzagbmsagqzrbbulgbkgbmuf,gbmkaugoubbuzagqroogzul uzgbmurz
lvfuagvagclkqlgvl gpvfksagvagbmurzgkqlgws.origvibrklagikso g kjggVl 
.uar uagbmrag rppuzuliu,gbmuaugvzuglkbgr ougvl gufwbtgoubbuza,gbmvb
iklbvrlglkbmrlxg.sbgvgprlugyrlxougkpgquoo-imkaulgqkz agvl g uorivbu
iksimu gwmzvaua,g.sbgzvbmuzgzuwoubugvl gv.ksl rlxgqrbmgxzvl g raikszaua
kpgzuvakl,g.tgqmrimgvgfvlgfvtgzul uzgmrfauopglkbgfkzuguokesulb,g.sbgfkzu
qrau,gvl gbmvbgrlabzsibgsaglkbgbkgawuvc,g.sbgbkg kgquoojggVqvtgqrbmgbmvb
uokesuliugbmvbgulimvlbagsagqrbmgrbauop,gvl glkbgqrbmgvibsvogbmrlxa!
slouaagtksgqroogvookqgbmvbgkpgIriuzkgbkg.ugkpgakgaswzufugvgwuzpuibrklgva
bkgpkzfgvgikfwoubug.k tgkpgrbauopj

Rgamvoogpvzbmuzgv  gklugabkztgqugzuv gkpgmrfgbkgbmragwszwkau,gqmuzurlgmra
lvbszugqroogfsimgfkzugfvlrpuabotg.ugovr gkwulgbkgsajggMugqvagbkgfvcugvl
kzvbrklgrlgws.ori,gvl gpksl gmrfauopgvgorbbougabzvrbulu gpkzgbrfugbkgfvcu
mrfauopgzuv tgvbgmraguvau;gqmulgUzka,gklugkpgmragaovnua,g.zksxmbgmrfgqkz 
bmvbgbmugvs ruliugqvag upuzzu gbroogbmugluhbg vt,gvbgqmrimgmugqvagak
zvnramu gqrbmgyktgbmvbgmugulpzvlimrau gmrfgpkzgbmugxkk gluqaj

Swklgbmragas.yuibgkpgoubbuza,gRgqroogv  gbmragfkzugbkgqmvbgmvag.uul
vozuv tgavr ,gbmvbgrbgragvgcrl gkpgqzrbrlxgqmuzurlgftgpzrul agbmrlcgRgivl
 kgakfubmrlx;gvl gRgvfgqroorlxgbkgiklpuaagRgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnugimkaulgbk
ws.oramgftgqmrfaruagbmvbgqvtgbmvlgvltgkbmuz,gmv gRgmv gbkgqmkfgbkgqzrbu;
.sbgRgqvlbu gasimgvgaubbou grlbuzikszau,gvagRgkliugmv ,gbkgvbbzvibgfugbk
rb,gbkgzvraugftgpvlit,gvl gbkgaswwkzbgfujggPkzgbkgbzvpprigqrbmgbmugqrl ,
vagakfugkbmuzagmvnug klu,gvl gbkgpkzxugnvrlglvfuagbkg rzuibgftgoubbuza
bk,grlgvgauzrksagas.yuib,gRgikso glunuzg kgrbg.sbgrlgvg zuvf,g.urlxgv
aqkzlguluftgbkgvoogfvlluzgkpgpvoarprivbrkljggRgamkso gmvnug.uulgfkzu
 rorxulbgvl gfkzugiklpr ulbgmv gRgmv gvgys rirksagvl grl soxulbgpzrul 
qmkfgbkgv  zuaa,gbmvlgbmsagbkguhwkaugftauopgbkgbmugnvzrksagys xfulbagkpgv
qmkougwukwou,gvl gRgvfg uiurnu grpgRgmv glkbgasiiuu u g.ubbuzjggRgmvnu
lvbszvootgvgmsfkzksagvl gpvfrorvzgabtou;g.sbgrbgragvgabtougkpgftgkql,glkb
wzkwuzgpkzgws.orig.sarluaa,g.sb,gorcugbmugovlxsvxugRgawuvc,gbkkgikfwvib,
rzzuxsovz,gv.zswb,gvl garlxsovz;gvl gvagbkgoubbuzagkpgiuzufkltgbmvbgmvnu
lkgkbmuzgas.abvliugbmvlgvgprlugiklbuhbszugkpgikszbuksagqkz a,gRgvfgqmkoot
bkgauucjggRgmvnuglurbmuzgpvisobtglkzgzuoramgpkzgbmkaugbu rksagbul uzagkp
auznriugvl gvppuibrkl;gRg.uorunugorbbougrlgbmufgpzkfgkbmuza,gvl gRgamkso 
lkbgpkzxrnugftauopgamkso gRgavtgbkgkbmuzagfkzugbmvlgRgftauopg.uorunuj
‘Bra,g ks.bouaa,gnuztgzufkbugpzkfgbmugwzuaulbgwzvibriu;gpkzgbmuzuglunuz
qvagakgv.yuibgvl gauznrougwzkabrbsbrklgkpgkppuza:gorpu,gakso,g unkbrkl,
v kzvbrkl,gnvaavo,gaovnu,gvl gRgivllkbgbuoogqmvb,gvaglkq;gvoogqmrim
uhwzuaarklagvzugakgikffklotgvl gakgrl rppuzulbotgwkabu gbkgvl gpzkg.t
unuztgklugvl gbkgunuztgklu,gbmvbgqmulgbmutgqkso gwzkpuaagvgxzuvbuzgvl 
fkzugzuawuibpsogrliorlvbrklgswklgfkzugysabgkiivarkla,gbmutgmvnuglkb
qmuzuqrbmvogbkguhwzuaagrbjggRgfkzbvootgmvbugvoogvrzgkpgpovbbuzt,gqmrimgra
bmugivsaugbmvbgRglvbszvootgpvoogrlbkgvgamt,gzksxm,gvl gizs ugqvtgkp
awuvcrlx,gbmvb,gbkgasimgvag kglkbgclkqgfu,gfvtgauufgvgorbbougbkgzuoramgkp
 ra vrljggRgmklkszgbmkaugfkabgbkgqmkfgRgamkqgbmugouvabgmklksz,gvl gqmuzu
ftgaksogfknuagqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgimuuzpsoluaa,gRguvarotgpkzxubgbmu
iuzufklruagkpgokkcgvl gxuabszu,gvl gkppuzgftauopgpvrlbotgvl g.oslbotgbk
bmufgbkgqmkfgRgvfgbmugfkabg unkbu :gfubmrlcagbmutgamkso gzuv grbgrlgft
muvzb,gvl gbmvbgbmuguhwzuaarklgkpgftgqkz ag kuag.sbgrlyszugbmugoknugR
mvnugikliurnu gqrbmrljggBkgquoikfu,gbvcugouvnu,gxrnugbmvlca,gviikab,
kppuzgftgauznriu,gvl gasimgnuz.vogpkzfvorbruagvagbmugiuzufklrksagovqagkp
kszgfk uzlgirnrorbtgulykrl,gRgclkqglkgfvlgakgabswr otgslwzknr u gkp
ovlxsvxugvagftauop;gvl gRgmvnuglunuzg.uulgufwoktu grlgqzrbrlxgoubbuzagkp
pvnkszgvl gzuikfful vbrkl,gbmvbgmu,grlgqmkaug.umvopgrbgqvagqzrbbul,g r 
lkbgbmrlcgftgfu rvbrklgiko gvl grfwuzpuibjggBmugRbvorvlagvzugxzuvb
wzrlbuzagkpgoubbuza;gRg kg.uorunugRgmvnugvbgouvabgvlgmsl zu gaunuzvo
nkosfuagkpgbmuf;gkpgvoogqmrimgbmkaugkpgVllr.vougIvzkgauufgbkgfugbkg.ugbmu
.uabjggRpgvoogbmugwvwuzgRgmvnugaizr..ou gbkgbmugov ruagvbgbmugbrfugqmul
ftgmvl gqvagzuvootgwzkfwbu g.tgftgwvaarkl,gquzuglkqgrlg.urlx,gbmuzu
frxmb,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugpksl gvgwvxugqkzbmtgbkg.ugikffslrivbu gbkgksz
tkslxgrlvfkzvbka,gbmvbgvzug.uakbbu gqrbmgbmvbgpsztjggRgvoqvtagqzrbugft
oubbuzagwkab-mvabu--akgwzuirwrbvbuot,gbmvbgbmksxmgRgqzrbugrlbkouzv.ot
roo,gRgzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg kgrbgftauop,gbmvlgbkgufwoktgvlkbmuz;gpkzgRgivl
prl glklugv.ougbkgpkookqgfu:gvl gRglunuzgbzvlaizr.ugvltjggRgmvnu
viisabkfu gbmugxzuvbgkluagqmkgclkqgfugbkgul szugftg.okbagvl g vamua,gvl 
swklgwvwuzgqrbmksbgpko gkzgfvzxrljggBmkaugbmvbgikabgfugbmugfkabgwvrla,
vzugbmugqkzab;gqmulgRgkliug.uxrlgbkg zvqgrbgrlg.tgmuv gvl gamkso uza,
‘bragvgarxlgbmvbgRgvfglkbgbmuzujggRgpvoogbkkgqrbmksbgwzufu rbvbrklgkz
 uarxl;gbmugprzabgqkz g.uxubagbmugauikl ,gvl gakgbkgbmugul gkpgbmu
imvwbuzjggBmugoubbuzagkpgbmragvxugiklarabgfkzugrlgprlugu xuagvl gwzupviua
bmvlgrlgfvbbuzjggYsabgvagRgmv gzvbmuzgqzrbugbqkgoubbuzagbmvlgiokaugvl 
pko gswgklu,gvl gvoqvtagvaarxlgbmvbgufwoktfulbgbkgakfugkbmuz,gak,gqmul
bmugzuvog.sarluaagkpgftgoubbuzgrag rawvbimu ,gRgqkso gqrbmgvoogftgmuvzb
bzvlapuzgrbgbkgvlkbmuzgmvl gbkgv  gbmkaugoklxgmvzvlxsua,gkppuza,gvl 
wzvtuza,gbmvbgqugwoviugvbgbmug.kbbkf,gvl gamkso g.ugxov gbmvbgakfugluq
isabkfgqkso g raimvzxugsagkpgbmvbgbzks.ou;gvagvoakgkpgaswuzaizr.rlxgbmuf
qrbmgvgoklxgouxul gkpgesvorbruagvl gbrboua,gqmrimgpkzgpuvzgkpgfrabvcua,
Rgmvnugkpbulglkbgqzrbbulgvbgvoo,gvl guawuirvootgbkgfulgkpgbmugoklxgzk.u
vl gprlvliu;gbmuzugvzugakgfvltgluqgkppriua,gasimgvg rawulavbrklgvl 
kz uzrlxgkpgbrbouagkpgmklksz,gbmvbg‘bragmvz gbkgaubgbmufgpkzbmgvzrxmb
tub,g.urlxgakg uvzotg.ksxmb,gbmutgvzuglurbmuzgbkg.ugvobuzu glkzgpkzxkbbul
qrbmksbgkppuliujggRgprl grbguesvootgrlg.v gbvabugbkgulisf.uzgbmugpzklba
vl grlaizrwbrklagkpgbmug.kkcagqugikffrbgbkgbmugwzuaagqrbmgasimj




IMVWBUZgHO

BMVBgBMUgZUORAMgPKZgXKK gVL gUNROg UWUL AgRLgXZUVBgFUVASZUgSWKLgBMU
KWRLRKLgQUgMVNUgKPgBMUF

Fulg(avtagvlgvlirulbgXzuucgaulbuliu)--[FvlsvogkpgUwribubsa,gijg10j]--
vzugbkzfulbu gqrbmgbmugkwrlrklagbmutgmvnugkpgbmrlxagvl glkbg.tgbmugbmrlxa
bmufauonuajggRbgquzugvgxzuvbgnribkztgk.bvrlu gpkzgbmugzuorupgkpgksz
frauzv.ougmsfvlgikl rbrkl,gikso gbmragwzkwkarbrklg.uguabv.oramu gpkz
iuzbvrlgvl gbzsugbmzksxmksbjggPkzgrpgunroagmvnuglkgv fraarklgrlbkgsag.sb
.tgbmugys xfulbgqugkszauonuagfvcugkpgbmuf,grbgamkso gauufgbmvbgrbgra,
bmul,grlgkszgkqlgwkquzgbkg uawraugbmufgkzgbkgbszlgbmufgbkgxkk jggRp
bmrlxagaszzul uzgbmufauonuagbkgkszgfuzit,gqmtg kgquglkbgiklnuzbgvl 
viikffk vbugbmufgbkgkszgv nvlbvxu?ggRpgqmvbgqugivoogunrogvl gbkzfulbgra
lurbmuzgunroglkzgbkzfulbgkpgrbauop,g.sbgklotgbmvbgkszgpvlitgxrnuagrbgbmvb
esvorbt,grbgragrlgsagbkgimvlxugrb,gvl grbg.urlxgrlgkszgkqlgimkriu,grp
bmuzug.uglkgiklabzvrlbgswklgsa,gqugfsabgiuzbvrlotg.ugnuztgabzvlxugpkkoa
bkgbvcugvzfagpkzgbmvbgar ugqmrimgragfkabgkppularnugbkgsa,gvl gbkgxrnu
aricluaa,gqvlb,gvl giklbufwbgvg.rbbuzgvl glvsauksagbvabu,grpgrbg.ugrlgksz
wkquzgbkgxrnugbmufgvgwouvavlbgzuoram,gvl grp,gpkzbslugarfwotgwzknr rlx
bmugfvbbuz,g‘bragpkzgsagbkgxrnugrbgbmugpkzfjggLkq,gbmvbgqmvbgqugivoogunro
raglkbgakgkpgrbauop,gkzgvbgouvabgbkgbmvbg uxzuugbmvbgqugfvcugrb,gvl gbmvb
rbg uwul agswklgsagbkgxrnugrbgvlkbmuzgbvabugvl gikfwouhrklg(pkzgvoogikfua
bkgklu),goubgsaguhvfrlugmkqgbmvbgivlg.ugfvrlbvrlu j

Rpgbmugkzrxrlvog.urlxgkpgbmkaugbmrlxagqugpuvzgmv gwkquzgbkgok xugrbauop
rlgsag.tgrbagkqlgvsbmkzrbt,grbgqkso gbmulgok xugrbauopgvorcu,gvl grlgorcu
fvlluz,grlgvoo;gpkzgfulgvzugvoogkpgbmugavfugcrl ,gvl gavnrlxgrlgxzuvbuz
vl gouaagwzkwkzbrkla,gvzugvoogwzknr u gqrbmgbmugavfugsbularoagvl 
rlabzsfulbagbkgikliurnugvl gbkgys xu;g.sbgbmug rnuzarbtgkpgkwrlrklagqu
mvnugkpgbmkaugbmrlxagiouvzotgunr uliuagbmvbgbmutgklotgulbuzgsag.t
ikfwkarbrkl;gklugwuzakl,gwuzv nulbszu,gv frbagbmufgrlgbmurzgbzsug.urlx,
.sbgvgbmksavl gkbmuzagxrnugbmufgvgluqgvl giklbzvztg.urlxgrlgbmufjggQu
mko g uvbm,gwknuzbt,gvl gwvrlgpkzgkszgwzrlirwvogulufrua;glkq,gbmrag uvbm,
qmrimgakfugzuwsbugbmugfkabg zuv psogkpgvoog zuv psogbmrlxa,gqmkg kuaglkb
clkqgbmvbgkbmuzagivoogrbgbmugklotgauiszugmvz.kszgpzkfgbmugabkzfagvl 
bufwuabagkpgorpu,gbmugaknuzurxlgxkk gkpglvbszu,gbmugakougaswwkzbgkp
or.uzbt,gvl gbmugikffklgvl gwzkfwbgzufu tgkpgvoogunroa?ggVl gvagbmugklu
uhwuibgrbgqrbmgpuvzgvl gbzuf.orlx,gbmugkbmuzagaswwkzbgrbgqrbmgxzuvbuz
uvaugbmvlgorpujggBmvbgklugikfwovrlagkpgrbagpvirorbt:

gggggggggg“Fkza!gsbrlvfgwvnr kagnrbvugas. siuzuglkoouaj
ggggggggggAu gnrzbsagbkgakovg vzub!”

ggggg[“Kg uvbm!gqkso abgbmvbgbmksgfrxmbgawvzugbmugikqvz ,g.sbgbmvb
gggggnvokszgvoklugamkso gwvtgbmuugbzr.sbuj”--Osivl,grnjg580j]

Lkq,goubgsagouvnugbmuaug.kvabpsogikszvxuajggBmuk kzsagvlaquzu 
Otarfvimsa,gqmkgbmzuvbulu gbkgcroogmrf,g“Bmksgqrobg kgvg.zvnugpuvb,”gavr 
mu,g“bkgvbbvrlgbmugpkziugkpgvgivlbmvzr uaj”ggBmugfvykzrbtgkpgwmrokakwmuza
vzugk.auznu gbkgmvnugurbmuzgwszwkauotgvlbrirwvbu ,gkzgmvabulu gvl 
vaarabu gbmurzgkqlg uvbmjggMkqgfvltgkz rlvztgwukwoug kgqugauugou gbk
uhuisbrkl,gvl gbmvbglkbgbkgvgarfwoug uvbm,g.sbgfrhu gqrbmgamvfugvl 
akfubrfuagqrbmgxzrunksagbkzfulba,gvwwuvzgqrbmgasimgvaaszvliu,gqmubmuz
bmzksxmgprzfgikszvxugkzglvbszvogarfworirbt,gbmvbgvgfvlgivlg raiknuzglk
imvlxugpzkfgbmurzgkz rlvztgikl rbrkl;gaubborlxgbmurzg kfuabrigvppvrza,
ikfful rlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmurzgpzrul a,garlxrlx,gwzuvimrlx,gvl 
v  zuaarlxgbmugwukwou,glvt,gakfubrfuagavootrlxgrlbkgyuaba,gvl g zrlcrlx
bkgbmurzgikfwvlrkla,gesrbugvagquoogvagAkizvbua?

Klugbmvbgbmutgquzugouv rlxgbkgbmugxvookqagbko gbmufgbmutgfsabglkbgbvcu
mrfgbmzksxmgasimgvgabzuub,gouabgvgfuzimvlbgqmkgornu gbmuzugamkso gvzzuab
mrfg.tgbmugqvtgpkzgvlgko g u.bjggVlkbmuzgbko gbmugmvlxfvlgmugfsabglkb
bksimgmragluicgpkzgpuvzgkpgfvcrlxgmrfgovsxm,gmugqvagakgbricoramjggVlkbmuz
vlaquzu gmragiklpuaakz,gqmkgwzkfrau gmrfgmugamkso gbmvbg vtgaswgqrbmgksz
Okz ,g“ kgtksgxkgbmul,”gavr gmu,g“rlgftgzkkfg[woviu];gpkzgRgpkzgftgwvzb
cuuwgpvabgbk- vtj”ggVlkbmuzgmvnrlxgivoou gpkzg zrlc,gvl gbmugmvlxfvl
mvnrlxg zslcgprzab,gavr gmugqkso glkbg zrlcgvpbuzgmrf,gpkzgpuvzgkp
ivbimrlxgakfugunrog rauvaujggUnuzt.k tgmvagmuvz gbmugbvougkpgbmugWrivz ,
bkgqmkf,g.urlxgswklgbmugov  uz,gbmutgwzuaulbu gvgikffklgqulim,gbuoorlx
mrfg(vagkszgovqg kuagakfugbrfuagwuzfrb)gbmvbgrpgmugqkso gfvzztgmuzgbmut
qkso gavnugmragorpu;gmu,gmvnrlxgvgqmrougiklar uzu gmuzgvl gwuziurnrlx
bmvbgamugmvobu :g“Ikfu,gbrugsw,gbrugsw,”gavr gmu,g“amugorfwaj”ggVl gbmut
buoogvlkbmuzgabkztgkpgbmugavfugcrl gkpgvgpuookqgrlg ulfvzc,gqmkg.urlx
ikl uflu gbkgokaugmragmuv ,gvl gbmugorcugikl rbrklg.urlxgwzkwkau gbkgmrf
swklgbmugaivppko ,gzupsau grb,g.tgzuvaklgbmugxrzogbmutgkppuzu gmrfgmv 
mkookqgimuucagvl gbkkgamvzwgvglkaujggVgauznvlbgvbgBksoksaug.urlxgviisau 
kpgmuzuat,gpkzgbmugasfgkpgmrag.uorupgzupuzzu gmrfauopgbkgbmvbgkpgmra
fvabuz,gvgtkslxgabs ulb,gwzrakluzgqrbmgmrf,gimkkarlxgzvbmuzgbkg rugbmvl
asppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugwuzasv u gbmvbgmragfvabuzgikso guzzjggQugzuv gbmvb
kpgbmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgVzzva,gqmulgOksragHRjgbkkcgbmvbgirbt,gvgxzuvbgfvlt
oubgbmufauonuag.ugmvlxu gzvbmuzgbmvlgbmutgqkso gavt,g“Xk gavnugbmugCrlxj”
gVl gvfklxabgbmvbgfuvl-aksou gzviugkpgful,gbmug.sppkkla,gbmuzugmvnug.uul
akfugqmkgqkso glkbgouvnugbmurzgpkkorlxgvbgbmugnuztgfkfulbgkpg uvbmjggKlu
bmvbgbmugmvlxgfvlgqvagbszlrlxgkppgbmugov  uzgizru :gg“Ovslimgbmugxvoout,”
gvlgkz rlvztgavtrlxgkpgmrajggVlkbmuz,gqmkfgvbgbmugwkrlbgkpg uvbmgmra
pzrul agmv govr gswklgvg.u gkpgabzvqg.upkzugbmugprzu,gbmugwmtarirvl
vacrlxgmrfgqmuzugmragwvrlgovt:g“.ubqrhbgbmug.ulimgvl gbmugprzu,”gavr gmu,
vl gbmugwzruab,gbkgxrnugmrfguhbzufugslibrkl,gxzkwrlxgpkzgmragpuubgqmrim
mragwvrlgmv gfv ugmrfgwsoogswgbkgmrf:g“Tksgqroogprl gbmuf,”gavr gmu,g“vb
bmugul gkpgftgouxaj”ggBkgklugqmkg.urlxgwzuaulbguhmkzbu gmrfgbkgzuikfful 
mrfauopgbkgXk :g“Qmt,gqmkgxkuagbmrbmuz?”ggavr gmu;gvl gbmugkbmuz
zuwotrlx:g“Rbgqroogwzuaulbotg.ugtkszauop,grpgrbg.ugMragxkk gwouvaszuj”
g“AmvoogRg.ugaszugbkg.ugbmuzug.tgbk-fkzzkqglrxmb?”gavr gmujgg“ k,g.sb
zuikfful gtkszauopgbkgMrf,”gavr gbmugkbmuz,g“vl gtksgqroogakklg.ugbmuzuj”
g“Rgquzug.uabgbmul,”gavr gmu,g“bkgivzztgftgzuikfful vbrklagftauopj”

Rlgbmugcrlx kfgkpgLvzarlxvmgbkgbmrag vtgbmugqrnuagkpgbmurzgwzruabagvzu
.szru gvornugqrbmgbmug.k ruagkpgbmurzgmsa.vl a;gvoogkbmuzgqrnuagvzug.szlb
vbgbmurzgmsa.vl a’gpsluzvoa,gqmrimgbmutglkbgklotgprzfotg.sbgimuuzpsoot
sl uzxkjggVbgbmug uvbmgkpgbmurzgcrlx,gmragqrnuagvl giklis.rlua,gmra
pvnkszrbua,gvoogmragkppriuza,gvl g kfuabrigauznvlba,gqmkgfvcugswgvgqmkou
wukwou,gwzuaulbgbmufauonuagakgxvrotgbkgbmugprzugqmuzugmrag.k tgrag.szlb,
bmvbgbmutgauufgbkgbvcugrbgpkzgvgarlxsovzgmklkszgbkgviikfwvltgbmurzgfvabuz
rlg uvbmjgg szrlxgkszgovbugqvzagkpgFrovl,gqmuzugbmuzugmvwwulu gakgfvlt
bvcrlxagvl gzubvcrlxagkpgbkqla,gbmugwukwou,grfwvbrulbgkpgakgfvltgimvlxua
kpgpkzbslu,gbkkcgasimgvgzuakosbrklgbkg ru,gbmvbgRgmvnugmuvz gftgpvbmuz
avtgmugbmuzugavqgvgorabgbvculgkpgprnu-vl -bqulbtgfvabuzagkpgpvfroruagqmk
fv ugbmufauonuagvqvtgrlgklugquuc’agbrfu:gvlgrlir ulbgakfuqmvbgzuauf.orlx
bmvbgkpgbmugHvlbmrvla,gqmkg.urlxg.uaruxu g.tg.zsbsa,gpuoo--ful,gqkful,
vl gimro zul--rlbkgasimgvgpszrksagvwwubrbugkpg trlx,gbmvbglkbmrlxgivlg.u
 klugbkgunv ug uvbmgqmrimgbmutg r glkbgbkgvnkr gorpu;grlakfsimgbmvb
.zsbsagmv gfsimg rpprisobtgrlgavnrlxgvgnuztgafvooglsf.uzj--[“Klotgprpbt
quzugavnu j”--Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpg.zsbsa,gijg8j]

Unuztgkwrlrklgragkpgpkziugulksxmgbkgivsaugrbauopgbkg.uguawksau gvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgorpujggBmugprzabgvzbriougkpgbmvbgnvorvlbgkvbmgbmvbgXzuuiugbkkc
vl gk.auznu grlgbmugFu rvlgqvz,gqvagbmvbgunuztgklugamkso gakkluzguhimvlxu
orpugpkzg uvbm,gbmvlgbmurzgkqlgovqagpkzgbmkaugkpgWuzarvjggQmvbgvgqkzo gkp
wukwoug kgqugauugrlgbmugqvzag.ubqrhbgbmugBszcagvl gbmugXzuuca,gzvbmuz
uf.zviugvgizsuog uvbmgbmvlgslirzisfiraugbmufauonuagbkgv frbgkpg.vwbraf?
Vlguhvfwougkpgqmrimglkgakzbgkpgzuorxrklgragrlivwv.ouj

BmugcrlxagkpgIvabrougmvnrlxg.vlramu gbmugYuqagksbgkpgbmurzg kfrlrkla,
Ykml,gCrlxgkpgWkzbsxvo,grlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgurxmbgizkqlagvgmuv ,gako 
bmufgvgzubzuvbgrlbkgmragpkzgvgiuzbvrlgorfrbu gbrfu,gswklgikl rbrklgbmvb
bmugbrfugprhu gikfrlxgbkguhwrzugbmutgamkso g.uxklu,gvl gmugbkgpszlram
bmufgqrbmgamrwwrlxgbkgbzvlawkzbgbmufgrlbkgVpzrivjggBmug vtgikfua,gqmrim
kliugovwau gbmutgquzugxrnulgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgasimgvagquzugvpbuzqvz 
pksl grlgbmugcrlx kfgamkso gzufvrlgaovnua;gnuaauoagquzugnuztgaoul uzot
wzknr u ;gvl gbmkaugqmkguf.vzcu grlgbmufgquzugzs uotgvl gnroovrlksaot
sau g.tgbmugwvaaulxuza,gqmk,g.uar uagkbmuzgrl rxlrbrua,gcuwbgbmuf
izsrarlxgswklgbmugauv,gklugqmrougpkzqvz agvl gvlkbmuzg.vicqvz a,gbroo
bmutgmv gawulbgvoogbmurzgwzknrarkla,gvl gquzugiklabzvrlu gbkg.stgkpgbmuf
vbgakg uvzgvgzvbugvl gakgoklxgqrbmvo,gbmvbgbmutgaubgbmufglkbgklgamkzu
broogbmutgquzugvoogabzrwwu gbkgbmugnuztgamrzbajggBmugluqagkpgbmragrlmsfvl
savxug.urlxg.zksxmbgbkgbmkaugqmkgzufvrlu g.umrl ,gbmugxzuvbuzgwvzbgkp
bmufgzuakonu gswklgaovnuztgvl gakfugfv ugvgamkqgkpgimvlxrlxgzuorxrklj
Uffvlsuo,gbmugasiiuaakzgkpgYkml,g.urlxgikfugbkgbmugizkql,gprzabgaubgbmuf
vbgor.uzbt,gvl gvpbuzqvz agvobuzrlxgmragfrl ,gkz uzu gbmufgbkg uwvzbgmra
ikslbzt,gvaarxlrlxgbmzuugwkzbagpkzgbmurzgwvaavxujggMugmkwu ,gavtag.ramkw
Kakzrsa,glkgiklbufwbr.ougOvbrlgmrabkzrvlgkpgbmuaugovbuzgbrfua,gbmvbgbmu
pvnkszgkpgbmugor.uzbtgmugmv gxrnulgbmufgmvnrlxgpvrou gkpgiklnuzbrlxgbmuf
bkgImzrabrvlrbt,gtubgbmug rpprisobtgkpgikffrbbrlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmugfuzit
kpgbmugfvzrluzagvl gkpgv.vl klrlxgvgikslbztgbmutgquzuglkqgmv.rbsvbu gbk
vl gquzugxzkqlgnuztgzrimgrl,gbkgxkgvl guhwkaugbmufauonuagrlgabzvlxugvl 
slclkqlgzuxrkla,gqkso giuzbvrlotg kgrbjgg.sbgprl rlxgmrfauopg uiurnu grl
mraguhwuibvbrkl,gvl gbmvbgbmutgquzugvoogzuakonu gswklgbmugnktvxu,gmugisb
kppgbqkgkpgbmugbmzuugwkzbagmugmv gwzkfrau gbmuf,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmu
oulxbmgvl grlikffk rbtgkpgbmugwvaavxugfrxmbgzu siugakfu,gkzgbmvbgmugfrxmb
mvnugkwwkzbslrbt,g.tgizkq rlxgbmufgvoogrlbkgklugwoviu,gbmugfkzu
iklnulrulbotgbkguhuisbugqmvbgmugmv g uarxlu ,gqmrimgqvagbkgpkziugvoogbmu
imro zulgsl uzgpkszbuulgtuvzagkpgvxugpzkfgbmugvzfagkpgbmurzgpvbmuzagvl 
fkbmuza,gbkgbzvlawkzbgbmufgpzkfgbmurzgarxmbgvl giklnuzavbrkl,grlbkgv
woviugqmuzugbmutgfrxmbg.ugrlabzsibu gvl g.zksxmbgswgrlgkszgzuorxrkljggMu
avtagbmvbgbmragwzk siu gvgfkabgmkzzr gawuibviougbmuglvbszvogvppuibrkl
.ubqrhbgbmugwvzulbagvl gbmurzgimro zul,gvl gfkzuknuzgbmurzgduvogbkgbmurz
vlirulbg.uorup,giklbul rlxgvxvrlabgbmragnrkoulbg uizuu,gpvbmuzagvl 
fkbmuzagquzugikffklotgauulgfvcrlxgbmufauonuagvqvt,gvl g.tgvgtubgfsimgfkzu
zrxkzksaguhvfwou,gwzuirwrbvbrlxgksbgkpgoknugvl gikfwvaarklgbmurzgtkslx
imro zulgrlbkgquooagvl gwrba,gbkgvnkr gbmugaunuzrbtgkpgbmragovqjggVagbk
bmugzufvrl uzgkpgbmuf,gbmugbrfugbmvbgmv g.uulgwzuprhu g.urlxguhwrzu ,
pkzgqvlbgkpgfuvlagbkgbzvlawkzbgbmufgbmutgvxvrlgzubszlu grlbkgaovnuztj
Akfugvoakgbszlu gImzrabrvla,gswklgqmkaugpvrbm,gvagvoakgbmvbgkpgbmurz
wkabuzrbt,gunulgbkgbmrag vt,gqmrimgragvgmsl zu gtuvzagarliu,gpuq
Wkzbsxsuaugivlgtubgzuot;gbmksxmgisabkfgvl goulxbmgkpgbrfugvzugfsimgfkzu
wkquzpsogikslauookzagrlgasimgimvlxuagbmvlgvoogkbmuzgiklabzvrlbagqmvbunuzj
RlgbmugbkqlgkpgIvabuolvs vzr,gprpbtgmuzubrigVo.rxukragvbgklugbrfu
asppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ug.szlu gvornugrlgklugprzugzvbmuzgbmvlgbmutgqkso 
zulksliugbmurzgkwrlrklaj

ggggg“Eskbruaglklgfk kg sibkzuaglkabzr,gau gslrnuzargubrvfguhuzirbsa,
gggggv glklg s.rvfgfkzbufgikliszzuzslb?”

ggggg[“Mkqgkpbulgmvnuglkbgklotgkszgouv uza,g.sbgqmkougvzfrua,gzslgbkgv
gggggiuzbvrlgvl gfvlrpuabg uvbmj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grjg37j]

Rgmvnugauulgvlgrlbrfvbugpzrul gkpgfrlugzslgmuv oklxgswklg uvbmgqrbmgv
zuvogvppuibrkl,gvl gbmvbgqvagzkkbu grlgmragmuvzbg.tg rnuzagwovsar.ou
vzxsfulbagqmrimgmugqkso glunuzgwuzfrbgfugbkg rawkaauaagmrfgkp,gvl gswkl
bmugprzabgmklkszv.ougkiivarklgbmvbgkppuzu grbauopgbkgmrf,gwzuirwrbvbu
mrfauopgrlbkgrb,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgnrar.ougzuvakl,gqrbmgvlgk.abrlvbu
vl gvz ulbg uarzugkpg trlxjggQugmvnugaunuzvoguhvfwouagrlgkszgkqlgbrfuagkp
wuzakla,gunulgtkslxgimro zul,gqmkgpkzgpuvzgkpgakfugorbbougrliklnulruliu
mvnug uawvbimu gbmufauonuajggVl gqmvbgamvoogquglkbgpuvz,gavtagklugkpgbmu
vlirulba--[Auluiv,gUwj,g70j]--bkgbmragwszwkau,grpgqug zuv gbmvbgqmrim
ikqvz riugrbauopgmvagimkaulgpkzgrbagzupsxu?

Amkso gRgmuzugwzk siugvgoklxgivbvokxsugkpgbmkau,gkpgvoogauhuagvl 
ikl rbrklagvl gauiba,gunulgrlgbmugfkabgmvwwtgvxua,gqmkgmvnugurbmuzgqrbm
xzuvbgiklabvlitgokkcu g uvbmgrlgbmugpviu,gkzgnkoslbvzrotgaksxmbgrb,gvl 
aksxmbgrbglkbgklotgbkgvnkr gbmugunroagkpgbmragorpu,g.sbgakfugwszuotgbk
vnkr gbmugavbrubtgkpgornrlx,gvl gkbmuzagpkzgbmugmkwugkpgvg.ubbuz
ikl rbrklguoauqmuzu,gRgamkso glunuzgmvnug klujggLvt,gbmuglsf.uzgragak
rlprlrbugbmvbgrlgbzsbmgRgamkso gmvnugvg.ubbuzg.vzxvrlgkl’bgbkgzuicklgsw
bmkaugqmkgmvnugpuvzu grbjggBmragklugbmuzupkzugamvoogauznugpkzgvoo:
Wtzzmkgbmugwmrokakwmuzg.urlxgklug vtgrlgvg.kvbgrlgvgnuztgxzuvbgbufwuab,
amuqu gbkgbmkaugmugavqgbmugfkabgvppzrxmbu gv.ksbgmrf,gvl gulikszvxu 
bmuf,g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgvgmkxgbmvbgqvagbmuzu,glkbmrlxgvbgvoogikliuzlu gvb
bmugabkzfjggAmvoogqugbmulg vzugbkgavtgbmvbgbmragv nvlbvxugkpgzuvakl,gkp
qmrimgqugakgfsimg.kvab,gvl gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgqmrimgqugbmrlcgkszauonua
fvabuzagvl gufwuzkzagknuzgbmugzuabgkpgvoogizuvbrkl,gqvagxrnulgsagpkzgv
bkzfulb?ggBkgqmvbgul gauznuagbmugclkqou xugkpgbmrlxagrpgrbgzul uzagsa
fkzugslfvlot?grpgqugbmuzu.tgokaugbmugbzvlesroorbtgvl gzuwkaugqugamkso 
ulyktgqrbmksbgrb?gvl grpgrbgwsbgsagrlbkgvgqkzaugikl rbrklgbmvlgWtzzmk’a
mkx?ggAmvoogqugufwoktgbmugsl uzabvl rlxgbmvbgqvagiklpuzzu gswklgsagpkz
kszgxzuvbuabgxkk gbkgkszgkqlgzsrl;gaubbrlxgkszauonuagvxvrlabgbmug uarxl
kpglvbszugvl gbmugslrnuzavogkz uzgkpgbmrlxa,gqmrimgrlbul gbmvbgunuztgklu
amkso gfvcugsaugkpgbmugpvisobrua,gfuf.uza,gvl gfuvlagmugmvagbkgmragkql
.uabgv nvlbvxu?

.sbgrbgfvt,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugk.yuibu gvxvrlabgfu:gTkszgzsougragbzsu
ulksxmgvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlag uvbm;g.sbgqmvbgqroogtksgavtgkpgrl rxuliu?
Qmvbgqroogtks,gfkzuknuz,gavtgkpgwvrl,gqmrimgVzrabrwwsa,gMruzklrfsa,gvl 
fkabgkpgbmugavxuagmvnugzuwsbu gbmugqkzabgkpgunroa;gvl gbmkaugqmkgmvnu
 ulru grbg.tgqkz gkpgfksbmgmvnu,gmkqunuz,giklpuaau grbgrlguppuib?
Wkar klrsag.urlxguhbzufuotgbkzfulbu gqrbmgvgamvzwgvl gwvrlpsog rauvau,
Wkfwursagivfugbkgnrarbgmrf,guhisarlxgmrfauopgbmvbgmugmv gbvculgak
slauvaklv.ougvgbrfugbkgikfugbkgmuvzgmrfg raikszaugkpgwmrokakwmtj
“Bmugxk agpkz.r ,”gavr gWkar klrsagbkgmrf,g“bmvbgwvrlgamkso gunuzgmvnu
bmugwkquzgbkgmrl uzgfugpzkfgbvocrlx,”gvl gbmuzuswklgpuoogrffu rvbuotgswkl
vg raikszaugkpgbmugiklbufwbgkpgwvrl:g.sb,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gmragkql
rlprzfrbtgqvagwovtrlxgmragwvzb,gvl gwovxsu gmrfgbkgwszwkau;gbkgqmrimgmu
izru gksb,g“Bmksgfvtuabgqkzcgbmtgqroo,gwvrl,gvl gbkzfulbgfugqrbmgvoogbmu
wkquzgbmksgmvab,g.sbgbmksgamvobglunuzgfvcugfugavtgbmvbgbmksgvzbgvlgunroj”
gBmragabkztgbmvbgbmutgfvcugasimgvgiosbbuzgqrbmvo,gqmvbgmvagrbgbkg k,
Rgpvrlgqkso gclkq,gqrbmgbmugiklbufwbgkpgwvrl?ggMugklotgprxmbagrbgqrbm
qkz a,gvl grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,grpgbmugamkkbrlxagvl g kokszagmugpuobg r glkb
fknugmrf,gqmtg r gmugrlbuzzswbgmrag raikszau?ggQmtg r gmugpvlitgmug r gak
xzuvbgvgbmrlxgrlgpkz.uvzrlxgbkgiklpuaagrbgvlgunro?ggVoog kuaglkbgmuzu
iklarabgrlgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl;gkszgpvliruagfvtgqkzcgswklgkbmuzgbmrlxa:g.sb
muzugragbmugiuzbvrlgairuliugbmvbgragwovtrlxgrbagwvzb,gkpgqmrimgkszgaulaua
bmufauonuagvzugys xua:

gggggggggg“Esrglrargaslbgnuzr,gzvbrkgeskesugpvoavgarbgkflraj”

ggggg[“Qmrim,grpgbmutg.uglkbgbzsu,gvoogzuvaklrlxgfvtgvoakg.ugpvoauj
ggggg--“Osizubrsa,grnjg486j]

Amvoogqugwuzasv ugkszgacrlagbmvbgbmugyuzcagkpgvgqmrwgvxzuuv.otgbricougsa,
kzgkszgbvabugbmvbgvgwkbrklgkpgvokuagragnrlg ugXzvnua?ggWtzzmk’agmkxgra
muzugrlgbmugavfugwzu rivfulbgqrbmgsa;gmugraglkbgvpzvr gkpg uvbm,g‘bra
bzsu,g.sbgrpgtksg.uvbgmrfgmugqroogiztgksbgbkgakfugwszwkaujggAmvoogqu
pkziugbmugxuluzvogovqgkpglvbszu,gqmrimgrlgunuztgornrlxgizuvbszugsl uz
muvnulgragauulgbkgbzuf.ougsl uzgwvrl?ggBmugnuztgbzuuagauufgbkgxzkvlgsl uz
bmug.okqagbmutgzuiurnujgg uvbmgragklotgpuobg.tgzuvakl,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgra
bmugfkbrklgkpgvlgrlabvlb;

ggggggggg“Vsbgpsrb,gvsbgnulrub;glrmroguabgwzvuaulbragrlgroovj”

ggggg[“ uvbmgmvag.uul,gkzgqroogikfu:gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgkpgbmugwzuaulbgrl
gggggrbj”--Uabrullug ugovg.kubru,gAvbrzuaj]

gggggggggg“Fkzaesugfrlsagwkulvu,gesvfgfkzvgfkzbra,gmv.ub;”

ggggg[“Bmug uovtgkpg uvbmgragfkzugwvrlpsogbmvlg uvbmgrbauopj”
gggggg--Knr ,gUwjgVzrv lugbkgBmuausa,gnjg42j]

vgbmksavl g.uvaba,gvgbmksavl gful,gvzugakkluzg uv gbmvlgbmzuvbulu jggBmvb
voakgqmrimgqugwzrlirwvootgwzubul gbkgpuvzgrlg uvbmgragwvrl,grbagkz rlvzt
pkzuzslluz:gtub,grpgqugfvtg.uorunugvgmkotgpvbmuz:

gggggggggg“Fvovfgfkzbufglklgpvirb,glrargesk gauesrbszgfkzbufj”

gggggggggg[“Bmvbgqmrimgpkookqag uvbmgfvcuag uvbmg.v j”
ggggggggggg--AbjgVsxsabrl,g ugIrnrbjg ur,grjgrrj]

Vl gRgamkso gtubgavt,gfkzugwzk.v.ot,gbmvbglurbmuzgbmvbgqmrimgxkuag.upkzu
lkzgbmvbgqmrimgpkookqagvpbuzgragvbgvoogkpgbmugvwwszbulvliuagkpg uvbmj

Quguhisaugkszauonuagpvoauot:gvl gRgprl g.tguhwuzruliugbmvbgrbgragzvbmuz
bmugrfwvbruliugkpgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgkpg uvbmgbmvbgfvcuagsagrfwvbrulbgkp
wvrl,gvl gbmvbgqugprl grbg ks.otgxzrunksagvagrbgbmzuvbulagsagqrbmg uvbmj
.sbgzuvaklgviisarlxgkszgikqvz riugpkzgpuvzrlxgvgbmrlxgakgas  ul,gak
rlunrbv.ou,gvl gakgrlaular.ou,gqugbvcugbmugkbmuzgvagbmugfkzuguhisav.ou
wzubuliujggVoogrooagbmvbgivzztglkgkbmuzg vlxuzgvoklxgqrbmgbmufg.sbgarfwot
bmugunroagbmufauonua,gqugbzuvbgvagbmrlxagkpglkg vlxuz:gbmugbkkbmvimugkz
bmugxksb,gwvrlpsogvagbmutgvzu,gtubg.urlxglkbgzuwsbu gfkzbvo,gqmkgzuickla
bmufgrlgbmugivbvokxsugkpg rauvaua?

.sbgoubgsagwzuaswwkaugbmvbgrlg uvbmgqugwzrlirwvootgzuxvz gbmugwvrl;gva
voakgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbkg.ugpuvzu grlgwknuzbtg.sbgbmugfrauzruagrbg.zrlxa
voklxgqrbmgrbgkpgbmrzab,gmslxuz,giko ,gmuvb,gqvbimrlx,gvl gbmugkbmuz
rliklnulruliuagrbgfvcuagsagasppuz,gabroogqugmvnuglkbmrlxgbkg kgqrbm
vltbmrlxg.sbgwvrljggRgqroogxzvlb,gvl gnuztgqroorlxot,gbmvbgrbgragbmu
qkzabgrlir ulbgkpgkszg.urlxg(pkzgRgvfgbmugfvlgswklguvzbmgqmkgbmugfkab
mvbuagvl gvnkr agrb,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgmrbmuzbk,gRgbmvlcgXk ,gRgmvnugmv 
akgorbbougbzvpprigqrbmgrb),g.sbgabroogrbgragrlgsa,grpglkbgbkgvllrmrovbu,
vbgouvabgbkgouaaulgrbg.tgwvbruliu;gvl gbmksxmgbmug.k tgvl gbmugzuvakl
amkso gfsbrlt,gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmugakso,glunuzbmuouaa,grlgxkk gikl rbrklj
Quzugrbglkbgak,gqmkgmv gunuzgxrnulgzuwsbvbrklgbkgnrzbsu;gnvoksz,gpkziu,
fvxlvlrfrbt,gvl gzuakosbrkl?ggqmuzugquzugbmurzgwvzbagbkg.ugwovtu grp
bmuzugquzuglkgwvrlgbkg.ug upru ?

ggggggggggggggg“Vnr vguabgwuzrisorgnrzbsaj”

ggggg[“Ikszvxugragxzuu tgkpg vlxuzj”--Auluiv,g ugWzknr ulbrv,gijg4]

Quzugbmuzuglkgotrlxgswklgbmugmvz gxzksl ,glkgul szrlx,gvzfu gvbgvoo
wkrlba,gbmugfuzr rklvogmuvba,glkgpuu rlxgswklgbmugpouamgkpgmkzauagvl 
vaaua,glkgauurlxgvgfvl’agauopgmvicu gvl gmuqu gbkgwruiua,glkgasppuzrlxgv
.sooubgbkg.ugwsoou gksbgpzkfgvfklxabgbmugamvbbuzu g.klua,glkgauqrlxgsw,
ivsbuzrarlxgvl gauvzimrlxgkpgqksl a,g.tgqmvbgfuvlagquzugbmugv nvlbvxugqu
iknubgbkgmvnugknuzgbmugnsoxvzgbkg.ugviesrzu ?gg‘Bragpvzgpzkfgpotrlxgunro
vl gwvrl,gqmvbgbmugavxuagavt,gbmvbgkpgvibrklaguesvootgxkk ,gvgfvlgamkso 
fkabgiknubgbkgwuzpkzfgbmvbgqmuzurlgbmuzugragxzuvbuzgov.kszgvl gwvrlj

gggggggggg“Lklguabgulrfgmrovzrbvbu,gluigovairnrv,gluigzras,gvsbgykik
ggggggggggikfrbugounrbvbra,gau gavuwugubrvfgbzrabuagprzfrbvbugub
ggggggggggiklabvlbrvgaslbg.uvbrj”

ggggg[“Pkzgfulgvzuglkbgklotgmvwwtg.tgfrzbmgvl gqvlbklluaa,g.tgovsxmbuz
gggggvl gyuabrlx,gbmugikfwvlrklgkpgounrbt,g.sbgkpbbrfuagbmugauzrksagakzb
gggggzuvwgpuorirbtgpzkfgbmurzgprzfluaagvl giklabvlitj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.jgrrjg10j]

Vl gpkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgmvagunuzg.uulgrfwkaar.ougbkgwuzasv ugksz
pkzupvbmuzag.sbgbmvbgbmugnribkzruagk.bvrlu g.tg rlbgkpgpkziugvl gbmu
mvdvz gkpgqvzgquzuglkbgfkzugmklkszv.ougbmvlgbmkaugwuzpkzfu grlgxzuvb
auiszrbtg.tgabzvbvxufgkzgwzvibriu:

gggggggggg“Ovubrsaguab,geskbruagfvxlkgar.rgiklabvbgmkluabsfj”

ggggg[“Vgxkk g uu gragvoogbmugfkzugvgavbrapvibrklg.tgmkqgfsimgbmugfkzu
gggggrbgmvagikabgsa”--Osivl,grhjg404j]

.uar ua,gbmragksxmbgbkg.ugkszgikfpkzb,gbmvbglvbszvoot,grpgbmugwvrlg.u
nrkoulb,g‘brag.sbgamkzb;gvl grpgoklx,glkbmrlxgnrkoulb:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Argxzvnra,g.zunra;
gggggggggggggggggggggggggArgoklxsa,gounraj”

Bmksgqrobglkbgpuuogrbgoklxgrpgbmksgpuuouabgrbgbkkgfsim;grbgqroogurbmuz
wsbgvlgul gbkgrbauopgkzgbkgbmuu;grbgikfuagbkgbmugavfugbmrlx;grpgbmks
ivlabglkbgaswwkzbgrb,grbgqrooguhwkzbgbmuu:

ggggg[“Zufuf.uzgbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvrlagvzugbuzfrlvbu g.tg uvbm;gbmvb
gggggaorxmbuzgwvrlagmvnugoklxgrlbuzfraarklagkpgzuwkau,gvl gbmvbgqugvzu
gggggfvabuzagkpgbmugfkzugfk uzvbugakzb:gakgbmvb,grpgbmutg.ugbkouzv.ou,
gggggqug.uvzgbmuf;grpglkb,gqugivlgxkgksbgkpgorpu,gvagpzkfgvgbmuvbzu,gqmul
gggggrbg kuaglkbgwouvaugsa”--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.jgrjg15j]

Bmvbgqmrimgfvcuagsagasppuzgwvrlgqrbmgakgfsimgrfwvbruliugragbmuglkbg.urlx
viisabkfu gbkgzuwkaugkszgimrupuabgiklbulbfulbgrlgbmugakso;gbmvbgqug kglkb
ulksxmgzuotgswklgmuzgqmkgragbmugakougvl gaknuzurxlgfrabzuaagkpgksz
ikl rbrkljggBmug.k t,gavnrlxgrlgbmugxzuvbuzgkzgouaagwzkwkzbrkl,gmvag.sb
klugvl gbmugavfug.ulbgvl g.rva;gqmuzuvagbmugaksogragnvzrv.ougrlbkgvoo
akzbagkpgpkzfa;gvl gas.yuibgbkgmuzauopgvl gbkgmuzgkqlgufwrzu,gvoogbmrlxa
qmvbakunuz,g.kbmgbmugaulauagkpgbmug.k tgvl gvoogkbmuzgviir ulba:gvl 
bmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgqugksxmbgbkgabs tgmuz,gbkgrlesrzugrlbkgmuz,gvl gbk
zksaugswgvoogmuzgwkquzpsogpvisobruajggBmuzugraglurbmuzgzuvakl,gpkziu,glkz
wzuaizrwbrklgbmvbgivlgvltbmrlxgwzunvrogvxvrlabgmuzgrliorlvbrklgvl 
imkriujggKpgakgfvltgbmksavl agkpg.rvauagbmvbgamugmvagvbgmuzg rawkavo,goub
sagxrnugmuzgklugwzkwuzgbkgkszgzuwkaugvl giklnuzavbrkl,gvl gbmulgqugamvoo
lkbgklotg.ugamuobuzu gvl gauiszu gpzkfgvoogfvlluzgkpgrlysztgvl gkppuliu,
.sbgfkzuknuzgxzvbrpru gvl gk.orxu ,grpgamugqroo,gqrbmgunroagvl gkppuliuaj
Amugfvcuagmuzgwzkprbgrl rppuzulbotgkpgvoogbmrlxa;guzzkz,g zuvfa,gauznu
muzgbkgxkk gsau,gvagoktvogfvbbuzgbkgok xugsagrlgavpubtgvl giklbulbfulbj
‘Bragwovrlgulksxmgbkg.ugauulgbmvbg‘bragbmugamvzwluaagkpgkszgfrl gbmvb
xrnuagbmugu xugbkgkszgwvrlagvl gwouvaszua:g.uvabagbmvbgmvnuglkgasim
bmrlx,gouvnugbkgbmurzg.k ruagbmurzgkqlgpzuugvl glvbszvogaulbrfulba,gvl 
iklauesulbotgrlgunuztgcrl gnuztgluvzgbmugavfu,gvagvwwuvzag.tgbmu
zuauf.orlxgvwworivbrklgkpgbmurzgfkbrklajggRpgqugqkso glkbg rabsz.grlgksz
fuf.uzagbmugyszra ribrklgbmvbgvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmufgrlgbmra,g‘bragbkg.u
.uorunu grbgqkso g.ugbmug.ubbuzgpkzgsa,gvl gbmvbglvbszugmvagxrnulgbmufgv
ysabgvl gfk uzvbugbufwuzg.kbmgbkgwouvaszugvl gwvrl;glurbmuzgivlgrbgpvro
kpg.urlxgysab,g.urlxguesvogvl gikffkljgg.sbgauurlxgqugmvnugulpzvlimrau 
kszauonuagpzkfgmuzgzsouagbkgxrnugkszauonuagswgbkgbmugzvf.orlxgor.uzbtgkp
kszgkqlgpvlirua,goubgsagvbgouvabgmuowgbkgrliorlugbmufgbkgbmugfkab
vxzuuv.ougar ujggWovbkgpuvzagkszgbkkgnumufulbotgulxvxrlxgkszauonuagqrbm
wvrlgvl gwouvaszu,gpkzvafsimgvagbmuaugbkkgfsimgclrbgvl gvootgbmugaksogbk
bmug.k t;gqmuzuvagRgzvbmuz,gesrbugiklbzvzt,g.tgzuvaklgrbgbkkgfsim
auwvzvbuagvl g raslrbuagbmufjggVagvlguluftgragfv ugfkzugpruziug.tgksz
porxmb,gakgwvrlgxzkqagwzks gbkgauugsagbzsicougsl uzgmuzjggAmugqroo
aszzul uzgswklgfsimg.ubbuzgbuzfagbkgbmufgqmkgfvcugmuv gvxvrlabgmuz:gvgfvl
fsabgkwwkaugvl gabksbotgaubgmrfauopgvxvrlabgmuzjggRlgzubrzrlxgvl gxrnrlx
xzksl ,gqugrlnrbugvl gwsoogswklgkszauonuagbmugzsrlgbmvbgbmzuvbulagsajggVa
bmug.k tgragfkzugprzfgrlgvlgulikslbuz,gbmugfkzugabrppotgvl gk.abrlvbuot
rbgvwworuagrbauopgbkgrb,gakgragrbgqrbmgbmugaksoj

.sbgoubgsagikfugbkguhvfwoua,gqmrimgvzugbmugwzkwuzgxvfugkpgpkocagkpgasim
puu.ougpkziugvagftauop;gqmuzugqugamvoogprl gbmvbgrbgragqrbmgwvrlgvagqrbm
abklua,gbmvbgzuiurnugvg.zrxmbuzgkzgvg soouzgosabzugviikz rlxgbkgbmugpkro
bmutgvzugaubgrl,gvl gbmvbgrbgmvaglkgfkzugzkkfgrlgsagbmvlgqugvzugwouvau 
bkgvookqgrb:

gggggggggg“Bvlbsfg kosuzslb,gesvlbsfg kokzr.sagaugrlauzsuzslbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgasppuzu gakgfsimgbmugfkzu,g.tgmkqgfsimgfkzugbmutgxvnugqvtgbk
gggggasppuzrlxj”--AbjgVsxsabrl,g ugIrnrbjg ur,grjg10j]

Qugvzugfkzugaular.ougkpgklugorbbougbksimgkpgvgaszxukl’agovliubgbmvlgkp
bqulbtgqksl agqrbmgvgaqkz grlgbmugmuvbgkpgprxmbjggBmugwvrlagkp
imro .uvzrlx,gavr g.tgbmugwmtarirvlagvl g.tgXk gmrfauopgbkg.ugxzuvb,gvl 
qmrimgqugwvaagbmzksxmgqrbmgakgfvltgiuzufklrua--bmuzugvzugqmkouglvbrkla
bmvbgfvcuglkbmrlxgkpgbmufjggRgaubgvar ugbmugOviu vufklrvlgqkful,g.sbgqmvb
uoaug kgtksgprl grlgbmugAqraagvfklxgkszgpkkb-ako ruza,grpglkbgbmvb,gva
bmutgbzkbgvpbuzgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gtksgauugbmufgbk- vtgivzztgbmugimro gvb
bmurzgluicagbmvbgbmutgivzzru gtuabuz vtgrlgbmurzg.uoorua?ggBmu
ikslbuzpurbgUxtwbrvlagqugmvnugvfklxabgsagxkgbmufauonuagbkgqvamgbmurza,
akgakklgvagbmutgikfugrlbkgbmugqkzo ,gvl g.vbmugrlgbmugprzabgzrnuzgbmut
fuubjgg.uar uagakgfvltgqulimuagvag vrotg zkwgbmurzgimro zulg.tgabuvobm,
vagbmutgikliurnu gbmuf,gbmvbgpvrzgvl glk.ougqrpugkpgAv.rlsa,gvgwvbzrirvl
kpgZkfu,gpkzgvlkbmuz’agrlbuzuab,gul szu gvoklu,gqrbmksbgmuow,gqrbmksb
iztrlxgksb,gkzgakgfsimgvagvgxzkvl,gbmug.uvzrlxgkpgbqrlaj--[Wosbvzim,gKl
Oknu,gijgg34j]--Vgwkkzgarfwoug.ktgkpgOviu vufklgmvnrlxgabkoulgvgpkhg(pkz
bmutgfkzugpuvzgbmugamvfugkpgabswr rbtgrlgabuvorlxgbmvlgqug kgbmu
wslramfulbgkpgbmugclvnuzt),gvl gmvnrlxgxkbgrbgsl uzgmragikvb,gzvbmuz
ul szu gbmugbuvzrlxgksbgkpgmrag.kquoagbmvlgmugqkso g raiknuzgmragbmupbj
Vl gvlkbmuzgkppuzrlxgrliulaugvbgvgavizrpriu,gasppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.u
.szlu gbkgbmug.klug.tgvgikvogbmvbgpuoogrlbkgmragaouunu,gzvbmuzgbmvl
 rabsz.gbmugiuzufkltjggVl gbmuzugmvnug.uulgvgxzuvbglsf.uz,gpkzgvgakou
bzrvogkpgnrzbsu,gpkookqrlxgbmurzgrlabrbsbrkla,gqmkgmvnugvbgaunulgtuvza
ko gul szu gbkg.ugqmrwwu gbkg uvbmgqrbmksbgimvlxrlxgbmurzgikslbulvliuj
Vl gIriuzkgmvagauulgbmufgprxmbgrlgwvzbrua,gqrbmgpraba,gpuub,gvl gbuubm,
broogbmutgmvnugpvrlbu gvl gaslcg kql,gzvbmuzgbmvlgiklpuaagbmufauonua
knuzikfu:

ggggg[“Isabkfgikso glunuzgiklesuzglvbszu;gamugragunuzgrlnrlir.ou;g.sbgqu
gggggmvnugrlpuibu gbmugfrl gqrbmgamv kqa,g uorxmba,gluxorxuliu,gaokbm;
gggggqugmvnugxzkqlguppufrlvbugbmzksxmgkwrlrklagvl gikzzswbgfkzvorbtj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg27j]

UnuztgklugclkqagbmugabkztgkpgAivunkov,gbmvbgmvnrlxgaorwwu grlbkgbmu
uluft’agivfwgbkgcroogbmurzgxuluzvo,gvl gmvnrlxgfraau gmrag.okq,gbkgzuwvrz
mragpvsob,g.tgvgfkzugabzvlxugrlnulbrklgvl gbkg uornuzgmragikslbzt,gmu
.ko otgiklpuaau gbkgWkzaullv,gqmkgqvagbmugcrlxgmugmv gvgwszwkaugbkgcroo,
lkbgklotgmrag uarxl,g.sbgfkzuknuzgv  u gbmvbgbmuzugquzugbmulgrlgbmugivfw
vgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgZkfvla,gmragviikfworiuagrlgbmugulbuzwzrau,gvagxkk gful
vagmu;gvl gbkgamkqgqmvbgvgklugmugmrfauopgqva,gmvnrlxgivsau gvgwvlgkp
.szlrlxgikvoagbkg.ug.zksxmb,gmugavqgvl gul szu gmragvzfgbkg.zkrogvl 
zkvab,gbroogbmugcrlxgmrfauop,gikliurnrlxgmkzzkzgvbgbmugarxmb,gikffvl u 
bmugwvlgbkg.ugbvculgvqvtjggQmvbgqkso gtksgavtgkpgmrfgbmvbgqkso glkb
nksimavpugbkgzuawrbugmragzuv rlxgrlgvg.kkcgqmroabgmugqvagsl uzgrlirarkl?
Vl gkpgbmugkbmuzgbmvbgwuzarabu gbkgfkicgvl govsxmgrlgiklbufwbgkpgbmu
wvrlagrlporibu gswklgmrf;gakgbmvbgbmugwzknkcu gizsuobtgkpgbmu
uhuisbrkluzagbmvbgmv gmrfgrlgmvl orlx,gvl gvoogbmugrlnulbrklagkpgbkzbszua
zu ks.ou gswklgmrf,gklugvpbuzgvlkbmuz,gawulbgrlgnvrl,gxvnugmrfgbmu
.sicouza?gg.sbgmugqvagvgwmrokakwmuzjgg.sbgqmvb!gvgxov rvbkzgkpgIvuavz’a
ul szu ,govsxmrlxgvoogbmugqmrou,gmragqksl agbkg.ugauvzimu ,govliu ,gvl 
ovr gkwul:

ggggg[“Qmvbgkz rlvztgxov rvbkzgunuzgxzkvlu ?ggQmrimgkpgbmufgunuzgimvlxu 
gggggikslbulvliu?ggQmrimgkpgbmufglkbgklotgabkk gkzgpuoogrl uikzksaot?
gggggQmrim,gqmulgmugmv gpvooulgvl gqvagikffvl u gbkgzuiurnugbmugabzkcugkp
gggggbmugaqkz ,giklbzvibu gmragluicj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg17j]


Oubgsag.zrlxgrlgbmugqkfulgbkkjggQmkgmvaglkbgmuvz gvbgWvzragkpgmuzgbmvb
ivsau gmuzgpviugbkg.ugpovtu gklotgpkzgbmugpzuamuzgikfwouhrklgkpgvgluq
acrl?ggBmuzugvzugqmkgmvnug zvqlgxkk gvl gaksl gbuubmgbkgfvcugbmurzgnkriua
fkzugakpbgvl gaquub,gkzgbkgwoviugbmugkbmuzgbuubmgrlg.ubbuzgkz uzjggMkq
fvltguhvfwouagkpgbmugiklbufwbgkpgwvrlgmvnugqugrlgbmvbgauh?ggQmvbgivlgbmut
lkbg k,gqmvbg kgbmutgpuvzgbkg k,gpkzglunuzgakgorbbougmkwugkpgvlgv  rbrkl
bkgbmurzg.uvsbt?

ggggggggggggggg“Nvoouzugesuragiszvguabgvo.kagvgabrzwugivwrooka,
gggggggggggggggUbgpviruf,g ufwbvgwuoou,gzupuzzuglknvfj”

ggggg[“Qmkgivzupsootgwosicgksbgbmurzgxzutgmvrzag.tgbmugzkkba,gvl gzuluq
gggggbmurzgpviuag.tgwuuorlxgkppgbmugko gacrlj”--Br.soosa,grjg8,g45j]

Rgmvnugauulgakfugkpgbmufgaqvookqgavl ,gvamua,gvl g kgbmurzgsbfkabgbk
 uabzktgbmurzgabkfvimagbkgxubgwvougikfwouhrklajggBkgfvcugvgprlugAwvlram
.k t,gqmvbgzvicagqroogbmutglkbgul szugkpgxrz rlxgvl g.zvirlx,gbroogbmut
mvnuglkbimuagrlgbmurzgar uagisbgrlbkgbmugnuztgesric,gvl gakfubrfuagbk
 uvbm?

Rbgragvlgkz rlvztgbmrlxgqrbmgaunuzvoglvbrklagvbgbmrag vtgbkgqksl 
bmufauonuagrlgxkk guvzluabgbkgxvrlgizu rbgbkgqmvbgbmutgwzkpuaa;gkpgqmrim
kszgcrlx,gzuovbuaglkbv.ouguhvfwouagkpgqmvbgmugmvagauulgrlgWkovl gvl g klu
bkqvz agmrfauopj--[MulztgRRRj]--.sbg.uar uagbmra,gqmrimgRgclkqgbkgmvnu
.uulgrfrbvbu g.tgakfugrlgPzvliu,gqmulgRgivfugpzkfgbmvbgpvfksagvaauf.otgkp
bmugUabvbuagvbg.okra,gRgmv gvgorbboug.upkzugauulgvgfvr grlgWrivz t,gqmk
bkgfvlrpuabgbmugvz kszgkpgmuzgwzkfraua,gvagvoakgmuzgiklabvlit,gxrnu
muzauop,gqrbmgvg.k crlgamugqkzugrlgmuzgmvrz,gpkszgkzgprnugxkk gosabt
abv.agrlgbmugvzf,gbroogbmug.okk gxsamu gksbgbkgakfugwszwkaujggBmugBszca
xrnugbmufauonuagxzuvbgaivzagrlgmklkszgkpgbmurzgfrabzuaaua,gvl gbkgbmugul 
bmutgfvtgbmugoklxuzgzufvrl,gbmutgwzuaulbotgiovwgprzugbkgbmugqksl ,gqmuzu
bmutgmko grbgvlgrlizu r.ougbrfugbkgabkwgbmug.okk gvl gpkzfgbmugirivbzriu;
wukwougbmvbgmvnug.uulgutuqrbluaauagkpgrbgmvnug.kbmgqzrbbulgvl gaqkzlgrb
bkgfujgg.sbgpkzgbulgvawuza--[VgBszcramgikrlgqkzbmgv.ksbgvgwullt]--bmuzu
vzugbmuzugunuztg vtgpuookqagbkg.ugpksl gbmvbgqroogxrnugbmufauonuagvgxkk 
 uuwgaovamgrlgbmugvzfagkzgbmrxmajggRgvfgqroorlx,gmkqunuz,gbkgmvnugbmu
buabrfklruagluvzuabgbkgsagqmulgqugmvnugfkabgluu gkpgbmuf;gpkzgImzrabul kf
pszlramuagsagqrbmgulksxmjggVpbuzgbmuguhvfwougkpgkszg.ouaau gXsr ugbmuzu
mvnug.uulgfvltgqmkgmvnugizsirpru gbmufauonuajggQugouvzlg.tgbuabrfkltgnuzt
qkzbmtgkpg.uorup,gbmvbgCrlxgAbjgOksragqkzugvgmvrz-amrzbgbroogrlgmragko 
vxugmragiklpuaakzgxvnugmrfgvg rawulavbrklgbkgouvnugrbgkpp;gvl gbmvbgunuzt
Pzr vtgmugivsau gmragamkso uzagbkg.ug zs..u g.tgmragwzruabgqrbmgprnu
afvoogimvrlagkpgrzklgqmrimgquzugvoqvtagivzzru gv.ksbgvfklxabgmraglrxmb
viiksbzufulbagpkzgbmvbgwszwkauj

Qroorvf,gkszgovabg scugkpgXsrullu,gbmugpvbmuzgkpgbmvbgUouvlkzgqmk
bzvlafrbbu gbmvbg simtgbkgbmugmksauagkpgPzvliugvl gUlxovl ,giklbrlsvoot
pkzgbmugovabgbulgkzgbquonugtuvzagkpgmragorpugqkzugvgasrbgkpgvzfkszgsl uz
vgzuorxrksagmv.rbg.tgqvtgkpgwulvliujggPksocu,gIkslbgkpgVlyks,gqulbgvagpvz
vagYuzsavouf,gbmuzugbkgivsaugmrfauopgbkg.ugqmrwwu g.tgbqkgkpgmra
auznvlba,gqrbmgvgzkwugv.ksbgmragluic,g.upkzugbmugauwsoimzugkpgkszgOkz j
.sbg kgquglkb,gfkzuknuz,gunuztgXkk gPzr vt,grlgnvzrksagwoviua,gauugxzuvb
lsf.uzagkpgfulgvl gqkfulg.uvbgvl gqmrwgbmufauonuagbroogbmutgoviuzvbugvl 
isbgbmugpouamgbkgbmugnuztg.klua?ggRgmvnugkpbulgauulgrb,gvl g‘bragqrbmksb
vltgulimvlbfulb;gvl grbgqvagavr gbmuzugquzugakfugvfklxabgbmufg(pkzgbmut
xkg raxsrau )gqmkgpkzgfklutgsl uzbkkcg.tgbmragfuvlagbkgavnugmvzfouaagbmu
zuorxrklgkpgkbmuza,g.tgvgiklbufwbgkpgwvrl,gakgfsimgbmugxzuvbuz,gvagbmu
rliulbrnuagkpg unkbrklgvzugfkzuguppuibsvogbmvlgbmkaugkpgvnvzriuj
EjgFvhrfsag.szru gmragaklgqmulgmugqvagvgiklaso,gvl gFjgIvbkgmragqmul
wzvubkzguouib,gvl gOjgWvsosag.kbmgmra,gqrbmrlgvgpuqg vtagklugvpbuz
vlkbmuz,gqrbmgasimgvgikslbulvliugvaguhwzuaau glkgfvlluzgkpgxzrupjggRgavr 
kliugfuzzrotgkpgvgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,gbmvbgmugmv g ravwwkrlbu gbmug rnrlu
ysabriu;gpkzgbmugnrkoulbg uvbmgkpgbmzuugxzkql-swgimro zulgkpgmrag.urlx
klug vtgaulbgmrf,gpkzgvgaunuzugaikszxu,gvagrbgragbkg.ugaswwkau ,gmugqva
akgpvzgpzkfg.urlxgvpporibu gvbgbmugviir ulb,gbmvbgmugzvbmuzgbkkcgrbgpkzgv
wvzbrisovzgxzviugvl gpvnkszgkpgmuvnuljggRg kglkbgpkookqgbmuaugfklabzksa
msfksza,gbmksxmgRgokabgbqkgkzgbmzuugvbglszau,grpglkbgqrbmksbgxzrup,gvb
ouvabgqrbmksbgzuwrlrlx,gvl gtubgbmuzugragmvz otgvltgviir ulbgbmvbgwruziua
luvzuzgbkgbmugesricjggRgauugvgxzuvbgfvltgkbmuzgkiivarklagkpgakzzkq,gbmvb
amkso gbmutgmvwwulgbkgfugRgamkso gmvz otgpuuo;gvl gmvnug uawrau gakfu,
qmulgbmutgmvnug.upvooulgfu,gbkgqmrimgbmugqkzo gmvagxrnulgakgbuzzr.ougv
prxszugbmvbgRgamkso g.osamgbkg.kvabgkpgftgiklabvlit:

ggggggggg“Uhgeskgrlbuoorxrbsz,glklgrlglvbszv,gau grlgkwrlrklu,
gggggggggguaaugvuxzrbs rlufj”

ggggg[“.tgqmrimgklugfvtgsl uzabvl gbmvbgxzrupgraglkbgrlglvbszu,g.sbgrl
gggggkwrlrklj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrrjg28j]

Kwrlrklgragvgwkquzpsogwvzbt,g.ko ,gvl gqrbmksbgfuvaszujggQmkgunuzgak
xzuu rotgmslbu gvpbuzgauiszrbtgvl gzuwkaugvagVouhvl uzgvl gIvuavzg r 
vpbuzg rabsz.vliugvl g rpprisobrua?ggBuzua,gbmugpvbmuzgkpgArbvoiua,gqva
qklbgbkgavtgbmvbg“qmulgmugmv glkgqvza,gmugpvliru gbmuzugqvaglkg rppuzuliu
.ubqrhbgmrfgvl gmragxzkkfj”ggIvbkgbmugiklaso,gbkgauiszugakfugirbruagkp
Awvrlgpzkfgzunkob,gklotgrlbuz ribrlxgbmugrlmv.rbvlbagpzkfgquvzrlxgvzfa,gv
xzuvbgfvltgcroou gbmufauonua:

gggggggggg“Puzkhgxula,glsoovfgnrbvfgzvbrgarlugvzfraguaauj”

ggggg[“Vgpruziugwukwou,gqmkgbmksxmbgbmuzugqvaglkgorpugqrbmksbgqvzj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghhhrnjg17j]

Mkqgfvltg kgqugclkqgqmkgmvnugpkzavculgbmugivofgvl gaquubluaagkpgvgesrub
orpugvbgmkfugvfklxabgbmurzgviesvrlbvliu,gbkgauucgksbgbmugmkzzkzgkp
slmv.rbv.oug uauzba;gvl gmvnrlxgwzuirwrbvbu gbmufauonuagrlbkgakgv.yuibgv
ikl rbrklgvagbkg.uikfugbmugaikzlgvl giklbufwbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gmvnugmsxxu 
bmufauonuagqrbmgbmugikliurb,gunulgbkgvppuibvbrkljggIvz rlvog.kzzkfuk,gqmk
 ru govbuotgvbgFrovl,gvfr abgvoogbmugykoorbtgbmvbgbmugvrzgkpgRbvot,gmra
tksbm,g.rzbm,gvl gxzuvbgzrimua,grlnrbu gmrfgbk,gcuwbgmrfauopgrlgak
vsabuzugvgqvtgkpgornrlx,gbmvbgbmugavfugzk.ugmugqkzugrlgasffuzgauznu gmrf
pkzgqrlbuzgbkk;gmugmv gklotgabzvqgpkzgmrag.u ,gvl gmragmkszagkpgouraszu
pzkfgvppvrzagmugiklbrlsvootgawulbgrlgabs tgswklgmragcluua,gmvnrlxgv
orbboug.zuv gvl gvgxovaagkpgqvbuzgaubg.tgmrag.kkc,gqmrimgqvagvoogbmu
wzknrarklgkpgmragzuwvab,gvl gvoogbmugbrfugmugawulbgrlguvbrlxj

Rgclkqgakfugqmkgiklaulbrlxotgmvnugviesrzu g.kbmgwzkprbgvl gv nvliufulb
pzkfgisicko kf,gkpgqmrimgbmug.vzuglvfugklotgvppzrxmbagakgfvltgwukwouj

Rpgbmugarxmbg.uglkbgbmugfkabgluiuaavztgkpgvoogkszgaulaua,g‘bragvbgouvab
bmugfkabgwouvavlb;g.sbgbmugfkabgwouvavlbgvl gfkabgsaupsogkpgvoogksz
fuf.uzagauufgbkg.ugbmkaugkpgxuluzvbrkl;gvl gtubgvgxzuvbgfvltgmvnu
ikliurnu gvgfkzbvogmvbzu gvxvrlabgbmufgklotgpkzgbmra,gbmvbgbmutgquzugbkk
wouvavlb,gvl gmvnug uwzrnu gbmufauonuagkpgbmufgklotgpkzgbmurzgnvosu:
vagfsimgbmksxmbgmugkpgmragutuagbmvbgwsbgbmufgksbjggBmugxuluzvorbtgvl 
fkzugakor gakzbgkpgfulgokkcgswklgv.sl vliugkpgimro zulgvagvgxzuvb
.ouaarlx;gR,gvl gakfugkbmuza,gbmrlcgrbgvagxzuvbgvg.uluprbgbkg.ugqrbmksb
bmufjggVl gqmulgtksgvacgBmvouagqmtgmug kuaglkbgfvzzt,gmugbuooagtks,
.uivsaugmugmvaglkgfrl gbkgouvnugvltgwkabuzrbtg.umrl gmrfj

Bmvbgkszgkwrlrklgxrnuagbmugnvosugbkgbmrlxagragnuztgfvlrpuabgrlgbmugxzuvb
lsf.uzgkpgbmkaugqmrimgqug k,glkbgakgfsimgwzrdrlxgbmuf,gvagkszauonua,gvl 
lunuzgiklar uzrlxgurbmuzgbmurzgnrzbsuagkzgbmurzgsau,g.sbgklotgmkqg uvz
bmutgikabgsa,gvagbmksxmgbmvbgquzugvgwvzbgkpgbmurzgas.abvliu;gvl gqugklot
zuwsbugpkzgnvosugrlgbmuf,glkbgqmvbgbmutg.zrlxgbkgsa,g.sbgqmvbgqugv  gbk
bmufjgg.tgqmrimgRgsl uzabvl gbmvbgqugvzugxzuvbguiklkfrauzagkpgksz
uhwulau:gvagrbgqurxma,grbgauznuagpkzgakgfsimgvagrbgqurxmajggKszgkwrlrkl
qrooglunuzgasppuzgrbgbkgqvlbgkpgrbagnvosu:gbmugwzriugxrnuagnvosugbkgbmu
 rvfkl ;g rpprisobtgbkgnrzbsu;gasppuzrlxgbkg unkbrkl;gvl gxzrwrlxgbk
wmtarijggVgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,gbkg.ugwkkz,gbmzuqgmragizkqlagrlbkgbmugavfugauv
bkgqmrimgakgfvltgikfu,grlgvoogwvzbagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbkgpramgpkzgzrimuaj
Uwriszsagavtaggbmvbgbkg.ugzrimgraglkgzuorup,g.sbgklotgvlgvobuzvbrkl,gkp
vppvrzajggRlgbzsbm,grbgraglkbgqvlb,g.sbgzvbmuzgv.sl vliu,gbmvbgizuvbua
vnvzriujggRgqroog uornuzgftgkqlguhwuzruliugikliuzlrlxgbmragvppvrzj

Rgmvnugarliugftgufuzxuliugpzkfgimro mkk gornu grlgbmzuugakzbagkp
ikl rbrklajggBmugprzab,gqmrimgiklbrlsu gpkzgakfugbqulbtgtuvza,gRgwvaau 
knuzgqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgfuvlag.sbgqmvbgquzugivasvogvl g uwul rlxgswklgbmu
vookqvliugvl gvaarabvliugkpgkbmuza,gqrbmksbgabrlb,g.sbgqrbmksbgiuzbvrl
zunulsujggRgbmulgawulbgftgfklutgakgfsimgbmugfkzugimuuzpsoot,gvl gqrbmgak
fsimgbmugouaagivzugmkqgrbgqulb,gvagrbgqmkootg uwul u gswklgft
knuziklpr uliugkpgpkzbslujggRglunuzgornu gfkzugvbgftguvau;gRglunuzgmv 
bmugzuwsoaugkpgprl rlxgbmugwszaugkpgvltgkpgftgpzrul agamsbgvxvrlabgfu,
mvnrlxgulykrlu gftauopgbmragluiuaarbtgv.knugvoogkbmuzgluiuaarbrua
qmvbunuz,g.tglkgfuvlagbkgpvrogkpgwvtfulbgvbgbmugvwwkrlbu gbrfu,gqmrim
voakgbmutgmvnugvgbmksavl gbrfuagzuawrbu ,gauurlxgmkqgivzupsogRgqvagbk
avbraptgbmuf;gakgbmvbgRgwzvibrau gvbgkliugvgbmzrpbt,gvl gqrbmvogvgcrl gkp
vooszrlx,gmkluabtjggRglvbszvootgpuuogvgcrl gkpgwouvaszugrlgwvtrlx,gvagrp
Rguvau gftgamkso uzagkpgvgbzks.ouakfugqurxmbgvl gpzuu gftauopgpzkfgvl
rfvxugkpgaovnuzt;gvagvoakgbmvbgRgprl gvgzvnramrlxgcrl gkpgavbrapvibrklgrl
wouvarlxgvlkbmuzgvl g krlxgvgysabgvibrkljggRguhiuwbgwvtfulbagqmuzugbmu
bzks.ougkpg.vzxvrlrlxgvl gzuicklrlxgragzuesrzu ;gvl grlgasimgivaua;gqmuzu
Rgivlgfuubgqrbmglk.k tgbkguvaugfugkpgbmvbgimvzxu,gRg uovtgbmuf,gmkq
aivl voksaotgvl grlyszrksaotgakunuz,gvoogRgwkaar.otgivl,gpkzgpuvzgkpgbmu
qzvlxorlxagpkzgqmrimg.kbmgftgmsfkszgvl gqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgvzugakgbkbvoot
rfwzkwuzgvl gslprbjggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgmvbugakgfsimgvag zrnrlxgv
.vzxvrl;g‘bragvgfuzugbzvpprigkpgikdulvxugvl grfws uliu,gqmuzu,gvpbuzgvl
mksz’agimuvwulrlxgvl gmuarbvbrlx,g.kbmgwvzbruagv.vl klgbmurzgqkz gvl 
kvbmgpkzgprnugakoa’gv.vbufulbjggTubgRgvoqvtag.kzzkqu gvbgxzuvb
 rav nvlbvxu;gpkz,gqvlbrlxgbmugiklpr uliugbkgawuvcgbkgbmugwuzaklgftauop,
Rgikffrbbu gftgzuesuabgbkgbmugwuzasvarklgkpgvgoubbuz,gqmrimgsasvootgraglk
nuztgasiiuaapsogv nkivbu,gvl gragkpgnuztgxzuvbgv nvlbvxugbkgmrfgqmkgmvagv
frl gbkg ultjggR,grlgbmkaug vta,gfkzugykisl otgvl gpzuuotgzupuzzu gbmu
ikl sibgkpgftgvppvrzagbkgbmugabvza,gbmvlgRgmvnugarliug klugbkgftgkql
wzknr uliugvl gys xfulbjggFkabgxkk gfvlvxuzagokkcgswklgrbgvagvgmkzzr.ou
bmrlxgbkgornugvoqvtagbmsagrlgsliuzbvrlbt,gvl g kglkbgiklar uz,grlgbmu
przabgwoviu,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gornugak:gmkqgfvltgqkzbmt
fulgmvnugqmkootgv.vl klu gbmurzgkqlgiuzbvrlbrua,gvl gtubg vrotg kgrb,gbk
bmugqrl a,gbkgbzsabgbkgbmugrliklabvlbgpvnkszgkpgwzrliuagvl gkpgpkzbslu?
Ivuavzgzvlgv.knugvgfroorklgkpgxko ,gfkzugbmvlgmugqvagqkzbm,grlg u.bgbk
.uikfugIvuavz;gvl gmkqgfvltgfuzimvlbagmvnug.uxslgbmurzgbzvpprig.tgbmu
avougkpgbmurzgpvzfa,gqmrimgbmutgaulbgrlbkgbmugRl rua,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Bkbgwuzgrfwkbulbrvgpzubvj”

ggggg[“Bmzksxmgakgfvltgslxknuzlv.ougauvaj”--Ivbsoosa,grnjg18j]

Rlgakgxzuvbgvgariirbtgkpg unkbrklgvagqugauugrlgbmuaug vta,gqugmvnugv
bmksavl gvl gvgbmksavl gikoouxuagbmvbgwvaagrbgknuzgikffk rksaotgulksxm,
uhwuibrlxgunuztg vtgbmurzg rlluzgpzkfgbmugor.uzvorbtgkpgMuvnulj
Auikl ot,gbmutg kglkbgbvcuglkbriugbmvbgbmragiuzbrbs ugswklgqmrimgbmutgak
fsimgzuotgraglkbgfsimgouaagsliuzbvrlgvl gmvdvz ksagbmvlgmvdvz grbauopj
Rgauugfrauztgvagluvzg.utkl gbqkgbmksavl gizkqlagvgtuvzgvagrpgrbgabkk 
iokaug.tgfu;gpkzg.uar uagbmvbgrbgragrlgbmugwkquzgkpgimvliugbkgfvcugv
msl zu g.zuvimuagbkgwknuzbtgbmzksxmgbmugxzuvbuabgabzulxbmgkpgkszgzrimua
--bmuzug.urlxgnuztgkpbulglkgfuvlg.ubqrhbgbmugmrxmuabgvl gbmugokquab
pkzbslu:

gggggggggg“Pkzbslvgnrbzuvguab:gbszl,gessfgawoul ub,gpzvlxrbsz,”

ggggg[“Pkzbslugragxovaa:grlgrbagxzuvbuabg.zrxmbluaagrbg.zuvcaj”
gggggg--UhgFrfjgWjgAtzsaj]

vl gbkgbszlgvoogkszg.vzzriv kuagvl g.soqvzcagbkwat-bsznt,gRgprl gbmvb,g.t
 rnuzagivsaua,grl rxuliugragvagpzuesulbotgauulgbkgrlmv.rbgqrbmgbmkaugqmk
mvnuguabvbuagvagqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgmvnuglklu;gvl gbmvb,gwuzv nulbszu,grbgra
bmulgpvzgouaagxzrunksagqmulgvoklugbmvlgqmulgviikfwvlru gqrbmgzrimuaj
Bmuaugpokqgfkzugpzkfgxkk gfvlvxufulbgbmvlgpzkfgzunulsu;

ggggggggggggggg“Pv.uzguabgasvugesraesugpkzbslvu”

gggggggggg[“Unuztgklugragbmugfvcuzgkpgmragkqlgpkzbsluj”
ggggggggggg--Avoosab,g ugZuws.jggKz j,grjgRj]

vl gvlgsluvat,gluiuaarbksa,g.sat,gzrimgfvlgauufagbkgfugfkzugfrauzv.ou
bmvlgmugbmvbgragarfwotgwkkzj

ggggg“Rlg rnrbrragfkwua,gesk gxulsaguxuabvbragxzvnraarfsfguabj”

ggggg[“Wkkzgrlgbmugfr abgkpgzrimua,gqmrimgragbmugakzuabgcrl gkpgwknuzbtj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g74j]

Bmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabgquvobmtgwzrliuagvzug.tgwknuzbtgvl gqvlbg zrnulgbk
bmugfkabguhbzufugluiuaarbt;gpkzgivlgbmuzug.ugvltgfkzuguhbzufugbmvlgbk
.uikfugbtzvlbagvl gslysabgsaszwuzagkpgbmurzgas.yuiba’gxkk agvl guabvbua?

Ftgauikl gikl rbrklgkpgorpugqvagbkgmvnugfklutgkpgftgkql,gqmuzurlgRgak
kz uzu gbmugfvbbuzgbmvbgRgmv gakklgovr gswgvgnuztglkbv.ougasfgksbgkpgv
fuvlgpkzbslu,giklar uzrlxgqrbmgftauopgbmvbgbmvbgklotgqvagbkg.ugzuwsbu 
mvnrlxgqmrimgvgfvlgzuauznuagpzkfgmragkz rlvztguhwulau,gvl gbmvbgvgfvl
ivllkbgv.akosbuotgzuotgswklgzunulsugmugmkwuagbkgzuiurnu,gmkqgiouvzgakunuz
bmugmkwugfvtg.ujggPkzgqmvb,gavr gR,grpgRgamkso g.ugaszwzrau g.tgasimgkz
asimgvlgviir ulb?ggVl gvpbuzgasim-orcugnvrlgvl gnrirksagrfvxrlvbrkla,
qkso gnuztgouvzlu ot,g.tgbmragmkvz rlxgkpgfklut,gwzknr ugvxvrlabgvoo
rliklnulruliua;gvl gikso ,gfkzuknuz,gvlaquzgasimgvagk.yuibu gbkgfugbmvb
bmuglsf.uzgkpgbmuaugqvagbkkgrlprlrbu,gbmvbgrpgRgikso glkbgovtgswgpkzgvoo,
Rgikso ,gmkqunuz,g kgrbgvbgouvabgpkzgakfugvl gpkzgfvltjggTubgqvaglkbgbmra
 klugqrbmksbgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgakorirbs ugvl gvlhrubtgkpgfrl ;gRgcuwbgrb
nuztgiokau,gvl gbmksxmgRg vzugbvocgakg.ko otgkpgftauop,glunuzgawkcugkpgft
fklut,g.sbgpvoauot,gvagkbmuzag k,gqmkg.urlxgzrim,gwzubul gbkg.ugwkkz,gvl 
.urlxgwkkz,gwzubul gbkg.ugzrim,g rawularlxgbmurzgiklairuliuagpzkfgunuz
buoorlxgarliuzuotgqmvbgbmutgmvnu:gvgzr risoksagvl gamvfupsogwzs uliuj
QvagRgxkrlxgvgykszlut?ggFubmksxmbgRgqvaglunuzgulksxmgwzknr u :gvl gbmu
fkzugRgokv u gftauopgqrbmgfklut,gbmugfkzugvoakgqvagRgokv u gqrbmgpuvz,
klugqmrougkpgbmug vlxuzgkpgbmugzkv a,gvlkbmuzgkpgbmugpr uorbtgkpgmrfgqmk
mv gbmugimvzxugkpgftg.vxxvxu,gkpgqmkf,gvagakfugkbmuzagbmvbgRgclkq,gRgqva
lunuzgaspprirulbotgauiszugrpgRgmv gmrfglkbgvoqvtagrlgftgutujggRpgR
imvliu gbkgouvnugftgivam-.khg.umrl gfu,gK,gqmvbgabzvlxugasawrirklagvl 
vlhrubtgkpgfrl g r gRgulbuzgrlbk,gvl ,gqmrimgqvagqkzau,gqrbmksbg vzrlxgbk
viesvrlbgvlt.k tgqrbmgrbjggFtgfrl gqvagubuzlvootgbvculgswgqrbmgasim
bmrlxagvagbmuau,gakgbmvb,gvoogbmrlxagiklar uzu ,gbmuzugragfkzugbzks.ougrl
cuuwrlxgfklutgbmvlgrlgxubbrlxgrbjggVl grpgRg r glkbgvobkxubmuzgakgfsimgva
Rgavt,gkzgqvaglkbgzuvootgakgaivl voksaotgakorirbksagkpgftgfklutgvagRgmvnu
fv ugftauopgksbgbkg.u,gtubgrbgikabgfugakfubmrlxgvbgouvabgbkgzuabzvrl
ftauopgpzkfg.urlxgakjggRgzuvwu gorbbougkzglkgv nvlbvxug.tgqmvbgRgmv ,gvl 
ftguhwulauagauufu glkbmrlxgouaagbkgfugpkzgmvnrlxgbmugfkzugbkgawul ;gpkz,
vag.rklgavr ,gbmugmvrztgfulgvzugvagvlxztgvagbmug.vo gbkg.ugwsoou ;gvl 
vpbuzgtksgvzugkliugviisabkfu gbkgrbgvl gmvnugkliugaubgtkszgmuvzbgswkl
tkszgmuvw,grbgraglkgfkzugvbgtkszgauznriu;gtksgivllkbgprl grlgtkszgmuvzb
bkg.zuvcgrb:g‘bragvg.sro rlxgbmvbgtksgqroogpvlitgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgvoo
bsf.oug kqlgbkgzsrlgrpgtksgabrzg.sbgbmugouvabgwu..ou;gluiuaarbtgfsab
przabgbvcugtksg.tgbmugbmzkvbg.upkzugtksgivlgwzunvrogswklgtkszauopgbk
bksimgrb;gvl gRgqkso gakkluzgmvnugwvqlu gvltbmrlxgRgmv ,gkzgako gvgmkzau,
vl gqrbmgfsimgouaagiklabzvrlbgswklgftauop,gbmvlgmvnugfv ugbmugouvab
.zuvimgrlgbmvbg.uoknu gwszaugRgmv gakgivzupsootgovr g.tjgg.sbgbmug vlxuz
qvagbmvbgvgfvlgivllkbguvarotgwzuaizr.ugiuzbvrlgorfrbagbkgbmrag uarzu
(bmutgvzugmvz gbkgprl grlgbmrlxagbmvbgvgfvlgikliurnuagbkg.ugxkk ),gvl gbk
abrlbgbmragxkk gmsa.vl ztgakgbmvbgrbgfvtglkbg uxuluzvbugrlbkgvnvzriu:gful
abroogvzugrlbulbgswklgv  rlxgbkgbmugmuvwgvl grlizuvarlxgbmugabkicgpzkf
asfgbkgasf,gbroogvbgovabgbmutgnrouotg uwzrnugbmufauonuagkpgbmugulyktfulb
kpgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzgxkk a,gvl gbmzkqgvoogrlbkgzuauznu,gqrbmksbgfvcrlxgvlt
saugkpgbmufgvbgvoojggViikz rlxgbkgbmragzsou,gbmutgvzugbmugzrimuabgwukwou
rlgbmugqkzo gqmkgvzugaubgbkgxsvz gbmugqvooagvl gxvbuagkpgvgquvobmtgirbtj
Voogfklutu gfulgRgiklios ugbkg.ugiknubksajggWovbkgwoviuagikzwkzvogkz
msfvlgxkk agrlgbmragkz uz:gmuvobm,g.uvsbt,gabzulxbm,gzrimua;gvl gzrimua,
avtagmu,gvzuglkbg.orl ,g.sbgnuztgiouvz-arxmbu ,gqmulgroosfrlvbu g.t
wzs uliujgg rkltarsagbmugaklg r gvgnuztgmvl akfugvibgswklgbmragas.yuib;
mugqvagrlpkzfu gbmvbgklugkpgbmugAtzvisavlagmv gmr gvgbzuvaszugrlgbmu
uvzbm,gvl gbmuzuswklgaulbgbkgbmugfvlgbkg.zrlxgrbgbkgmrf,gqmrimgmu
viikz rlxotg r ,gwzrnvbuotgzuauznrlxgvgafvoogwvzbgkpgrbgklotgbkgmrfauop,
qrbmgqmrimgmugqulbgbkgvlkbmuzgirbt,gqmuzug.urlxgiszu gkpgmragvwwubrbugkp
mkvz rlx,gmug.uxvlgbkgornugvbgvgfkzugor.uzvogzvbu;gqmrimg rkltarsa
muvzrlx,givsau gbmugzuabgkpgmragbzuvaszugbkg.ugzuabkzu gbkgmrf,gavtrlx,
bmvbgarliugmugmv gouvzlu gbkgsaugrb,gmugnuztgqroorlxotgzubszlu grbg.vic
bkgmrfj

Rgiklbrlsu gakfugtuvzagrlgbmragmkvz rlxgmsfksz,gqmulgRgclkqglkbgqmvbgxkk 
 ufklgpkzbslvbuotgwsbgfugksbgkpgrb,gvagmug r gbmugAtzvisavl,gvl gfv ugfu
bmzkqgv.zkv gvoogftgzuauznugvbgzvl kf,gbmugwouvaszugkpgvgiuzbvrlgykszlut
Rgbkkcgvbgnuztgxzuvbguhwulaugmvnrlxgfv ugfugawszlgbmragpkl goknugkpgfklut
sl uzpkkb;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagRgvfglkqgpvooulgrlbkgvgbmrz gqvtgkpgornrlxg(R
awuvcgqmvbgRgbmrlcgkpgrb),g ks.bouaagfsimgfkzugwouvavlbgvl gzuxsovz,
qmrimgra,gbmvbgRgornugvbgbmugmurxmbgkpgftgzunulsu;gakfubrfuagbmugklu,
akfubrfuagbmugkbmuzgfvtgwuzmvwaguhiuu ,g.sbg‘bragnuztgorbbougvl g.sb
zvzuotgbmvbgbmutg rppuzjggRgornugpzkfgmvl gbkgfksbm,gvl giklbulbgftauop
rlgmvnrlxgaspprirulbgpkzgftgwzuaulbgvl gkz rlvztguhwulau;gpkzgvagbk
uhbzvkz rlvztgkiivarkla,gvoogbmugovtrlxgswgrlgbmugqkzo gqkso glunuz
asppriujggVl g‘bragbmugxzuvbuabgpkootgrfvxrlv.ougbkguhwuibgbmvbgpkzbslu
amkso gunuzgaspprirulbotgvzfgsagvxvrlabgmuzauop;g‘bragqrbmgkszgkqlgvzfa
bmvbgqugvzugbkgprxmbgmuz;gviir ulbvogkluagqroog.ubzvtgsagrlgbmugwrlimgkp
bmug.sarluaajggRpgRgovtgsw,g‘bragpkzgakfugluvzgvl giklbufwovbu gwszwkau;
lkbgbkgwszimvaugovl a,gkpgqmrimgRgmvnuglkgluu ,g.sbgbkgwszimvaugwouvaszu:

ggggg“Lklguaaugiswr sf,gwuislrvguab;glklguaaugufviuf,gnuzbrxvoguabj”

ggggg[“Lkbgbkg.ugiknubksa,gragfklut;glkbgbkg.ugviesrarbrnu,gragzunulsuj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gWvzv khj,gnrjg3j]

Rglurbmuzgvfgrlgvltgxzuvbgvwwzumularklgkpgqvlbrlx,glkzgrlg uarzugkpgvlt
fkzu:

ggggg“ rnrlvzsfgpzsibsaguabgrlgikwrv;gikwrvfg uiovzvbgavbrubvaj”

ggggg[“Bmugpzsrbgkpgzrimuagragrlgv.sl vliu;gavbrubtg uiovzuagv.sl vliuj”
gggggg--R uf,gr.r j,gnrjg2j]

Vl gRgvfgnuztgquoogwouvau gbmvbgbmragzupkzfvbrklgrlgfugmvagpvooulgksbgrl
vlgvxuglvbszvootgrliorlu gbkgvnvzriu,gvl gbmvbgRgauugftauopgiouvzu gkpgv
pkootgakgikffklgbkgko gful,gvl gbmugfkabgzr risoksagkpgvoogmsfvlgpkooruaj

Puzvsoud,gvgfvlgbmvbgmv gzslgbmzksxmg.kbmgpkzbslua,gvl gpksl gbmvbgbmu
rlizuvaugkpgas.abvliugqvaglkgrlizuvaugkpgvwwubrbugurbmuzgbkguvbrlxgkz
 zrlcrlx,gaouuwrlxgkzgbmugulyktfulbgkpgmragqrpu,gvl gqmkgklgbmugkbmuz
ar ugpuobgbmugivzugkpgmraguiklkfriagorugmuvntgswklgmragamkso uza,gvagrb
 kuagklgfrlu,gqvagzuakonu gbkgwouvaugvgwkkzgtkslxgfvl,gmragpvrbmpso
pzrul ,gqmkgwvlbu gvpbuzgzrimua,gvl gfv ugmrfgvgxrpbgkpgvoogmra,gqmrim
quzuguhiuaarnuotgxzuvb,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gkpgvoogmugqvagrlgbmug vrotgqvtgkp
xubbrlxg.tgbmugor.uzvorbtgkpgItzsa,gmragxkk gfvabuz,gvl g.tgbmugqvz;
ikl rbrklvootgbmvbgmugamkso gbvcugivzugmvl akfuotgbkgfvrlbvrlgvl 
woulbrpsootgbkgulbuzbvrlgmrfgvagmragxsuabgvl gpzrul ;gqmrimg.urlx
viikz rlxotg klu,gbmutgvpbuzqvz agornu gnuztgmvwwrotgbkxubmuz,g.kbmgkp
bmufguesvootgiklbulbgqrbmgbmugimvlxugkpgbmurzgikl rbrkljgg‘Bragvlguhvfwou
bmvbgRgikso grfrbvbugqrbmgvoogftgmuvzb;gvl gRgnuztgfsimgvwwzknugbmu
pkzbslugkpgbmugvxu gwzuovbugqmkfgRgauugbkgmvnugakgv.akosbuotgabzrwwu 
mrfauopgkpgmragwszau,gmragzunulsu,gvl givzugkpgmraguhwulau,gikffrbbrlx
bmufgklugqmrougbkgklugbzsabtgauznvlb,gvl gvlkbmuzgqmrougbkgvlkbmuz,gbmvb
mugmvagawslgksbgvgoklxgasiiuaarklgkpgtuvza,gvagrxlkzvlb,g.tgbmragfuvla,
kpgmrag kfuabrigvppvrzagvagvgfuzugabzvlxuzj

Bmugiklpr uliugrlgvlkbmuzgfvl’agnrzbsugraglkgorxmbgunr uliugkpgvgfvl’a
kql,gvl gXk gqroorlxotgpvnkszagasimgvgiklpr uliujggVagbkgqmvbgikliuzla
mrfgkpgqmkfgRgvfgawuvcrlx,gRgauuglkqmuzugvg.ubbuzgxknuzlu gmksau,gfkzu
lk.otgvl giklabvlbotgfvrlbvrlu gbmvlgmrajggMvwwtgbkgmvnugzuxsovbu gmra
vppvrzagbkgakgysabgvgwzkwkzbrklgbmvbgmraguabvbugragaspprirulbgbkg kgrb
qrbmksbgmragivzugkzgbzks.ou,gvl gqrbmksbgvltgmrl zvliu,gurbmuzgrlgbmu
awul rlxgkzgovtrlxgrbgsw,gbkgmragkbmuzgfkzugesrubgufwoktfulba,gvl gfkzu
asrbv.oug.kbmgbkgmragwoviugvl gorcrlxj

Woulbt,gbmul,gvl grl rxuliug uwul gswklgbmugkwrlrklgunuztgklugmvagkp
bmuf;gvl gzrimuaglkgfkzugbmvlgxokztgkzgmuvobmgmvnugkbmuzg.uvsbtgkz
wouvaszugbmvlgmugoul agbmufg.tgqmkfgbmutgvzugwkaauaau j

Unuztgklugragquoogkzgroogvbguvau,gviikz rlxgvagmugakgprl agmrfauop;glkb
mugqmkfgbmugqkzo g.uorunua,g.sbgmugqmkg.uorunuagmrfauopgbkg.ugak,gra
iklbulb;gvl grlgbmragvoklug.uorupgxrnuagrbauopg.urlxgvl gzuvorbtj
Pkzbslug kuagsaglurbmuzgxkk glkzgmszb;gamugklotgwzuaulbagsagbmugfvbbuz
vl gbmugauu ,gqmrimgkszgakso,gfkzugwkquzpsogbmvlgamu,gbszlagvl gvwworua
vagamug.uabgwouvaua;gbmugakougivsaugvl gaknuzurxlgfrabzuaagkpgmuzgkql
mvwwtgkzgslmvwwtgikl rbrkljggVooguhbuzlvogviiuaarklagzuiurnugbvabugvl 
ikokszgpzkfgbmugrlbuzlvogiklabrbsbrkl,gvagiokbmuagqvzfgsa,glkbgqrbmgbmurz
muvb,g.sbgkszgkql,gqmrimgbmutgvzugprbgbkgiknuzgvl glkszram;gmugqmkgqkso 
amruo gbmuzuqrbmgvgiko g.k t,gqkso g kgbmugavfugauznriugpkzgbmugiko ,gpkz
akgalkqgvl griugvzugwzuauznu jggVl ,giuzbua,gvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluzgbmvb
abs tgragvgbkzfulbgbkgvlgr ougfvl,gv.abrluliugpzkfgqrlugbkgvg zslcvz ,
pzsxvorbtgbkgbmugawul bmzrpb,gvl guhuziraugbkgvgovdt,gbul uz-.zu gpuookq,
akgrbgragkpgvoogbmugzuabjggBmugbmrlxagvzuglkbgakgwvrlpsogvl g rpprisobgkp
bmufauonua,g.sbgkszgquvcluaagkzgikqvz riugfvcuagbmufgakjggBkgys xugkp
xzuvb,gvl gmrxmgfvbbuzagzuesrzuagvgasrbv.ougakso;gkbmuzqraugqugvbbzr.sbu
bmugnriugbkgbmufgqmrimgragzuvootgkszgkqljggVgabzvrxmbgkvzgauufagizkkcu 
rlgbmugqvbuzgrbg kuaglkbgklotgrfwkzbgbmvbgqugauugbmugbmrlx,g.sbgmkqgvl 
vpbuzgqmvbgfvlluzgqugauugrbj

Vpbuzgvoogbmra,gqmt,gvfklxabgakgfvltg raikszauagbmvbg.tgakgfvltgvzxsfulba
wuzasv ugfulgbkg uawraug uvbmgvl gbkgul szugwvrl,givlgquglkbgprl gksbgklu
bmvbgmuowagsa?ggVl gkpgakgfvltgakzbagkpgrfvxrlvbrklagvagmvnugakgwzunvrou 
swklgkbmuzagvagbkgwuzasv ugbmufgbkg kgak,gqmtg kuaglkbgunuztgklugvwwot
akfugklugbkgmrfauop,gbmugfkabgasrbv.ougbkgmragkqlgmsfksz?ggRpgmugivllkb
 rxuabgvgabzklx-qkzcrlxg uikibrklgbkguzv rivbugbmugunro,goubgmrfgvbgouvab
bvcugvgoulrbrnugbkguvaugrb:

ggggg[“Rbgragvlguppufrlvbugvl gporfatgkwrlrkl,glkzgfkzugakgrlgwvrlgbmvl
gggggrlgwouvaszu,grlgqmrim,gqmrougqugvzugvbgkszguvau,gqugivllkbg.uvz
gggggqrbmksbgvgiztgbmugabrlxgkpgvg.uujggBmugqmkoug.sarluaagragbkgikfful 
gggggbmtauopj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grrjg22j]

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gvgfvlg kuaglkbgbzvlaxzuaagwmrokakwmtg.tgwuzfrbbrlxgbmu
vizrfkltgkpgwvrlagvl gmsfvlgpzvrobtgbkgwzunvrogakgfsimgv.knugfuvaszu;gpkz
bmutgiklabzvrlgmuzgbkgxkg.vicgbkgmuzgslvlaquzv.ougzuworua:g“Rpgrbg.ugroo
bkgornugrlgluiuaarbt,gvbgouvabgbmuzugraglkgluiuaarbtgswklgvgfvlgbkgornu
rlgluiuaarbt”:g“Lkgfvlgiklbrlsuagroogoklxg.sbg.tgmragkqlgpvsobj”ggMugqmk
mvaglurbmuzgbmugikszvxugbkg ruglkzgbmugmuvzbgbkgornu,gqmkgqrooglurbmuz
zuarabglkzgpot,gqmvbgivlgqug kgqrbmgmrf?




IMVWBUZgHOR

LKBgBKgIKFFSLRIVBUgVgFVL’AgMKLKSZ

Kpgvoogbmugpkooruagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmvbgqmrimgragfkabgslrnuzavootgzuiurnu 
ragbmugakorirbs ugkpgzuwsbvbrklgvl gxokzt;gqmrimgqugvzugpkl gkpgbkgbmvb
 uxzuugvagbkgv.vl klgzrimua,gwuviu,gorpu,gvl gmuvobm,gqmrimgvzuguppuibsvo
vl gas.abvlbrvogxkk a,gbkgwszasugbmragnvrlgwmvlbkfgvl gufwbtgqkz ,gbmvb
mvaglurbmuzg.k tglkzgmko gbkg.ugbvculgkpgrb:

gggggggggggggggOvgpvfv,gim’rlnvxmraiugvgslg koiugasklk
gggggggggggggggXorgaswuz.rgfkzbvor,gubgwvzgarg.uoov,
gggggggggggggggUgslguik,gslgakxlk,gvldrg ’slgakxlkgsl’kf.zv,
gggggggggggggggIm’v gkxlrgnulbkgarg rouxsvgvgaxkf.zvj”

ggggg[“Pvfu,gqmrimgqrbmgvooszrlxgaksl gimvzfagwzks gfkzbvoa,gvl gvwwuvza
gggggakgpvrz,grag.sbgvlguimk,gvg zuvf,glvt,gbmugamv kqgkpgvg zuvf,gqmrim
gggggvbgunuztg.zuvbmgnvlramuagvl g raakonuaj”
gggggg--Bvaak,gXuzsaj,ghrnjg63j]

Vl gkpgvoogbmugrzzvbrklvogmsfkszagkpgful,grbgamkso gauufgbmvbgbmu
wmrokakwmuzagbmufauonuagvzugvfklxgbmugovabgvl gbmugfkabgzuosibvlbgbk
 raulxvxugbmufauonuagpzkfgbmra:g‘bragbmugfkabgzuabrnugvl gk.abrlvbugkp
voo:

ggggggggg“Esrvgubrvfg.ulugwzkprirulbuagvlrfkagbulbvzuglklgiuaavbj”

ggggg[“.uivsaugrbgiuvauaglkbgbkgvaavrogunulgquoo- rzuibu gfrl a”
gggggg--AbjgVsxsabrl,g ugIrnrbjg ur,gnjg14j]

Bmuzugraglkbgvltgklugkpgqmrimgzuvaklgakgiouvzotgviisauagbmugnvlrbt;g.sb
rbgragakg uuwotgzkkbu grlgsagbmvbgRg vzuglkbg ubuzfrlugqmubmuzgvltgklu
unuzgiouvzotg raimvzxu gmrfauopgpzkfgrbgkzglkjggVpbuzgtksgmvnugavr gvoo
vl g.uorunu gvoogmvag.uulgavr gbkgrbagwzuys riu,grbgwzk siuagakgrlbuabrlu
vlgrliorlvbrklgrlgkwwkarbrklgbkgtkszg.uabgvzxsfulbagbmvbgtksgmvnugorbbou
wkquzgbkgzuarabgrb;gpkz,gvagIriuzkgavta,ggunulgbmkaugqmkgfkabgiklbzknuzb
rb,gqkso gtubgbmvbgbmug.kkcagbmutgqzrbugv.ksbgrbgamkso gnrarbgbmugorxmb
sl uzgbmurzgkqlglvfua,gvl gauucgbkg uzrnugxokztgpzkfgauufrlxgbkg uawrau
rbjggVoogkbmuzgbmrlxagvzugikffslriv.ougvl gpvoogrlbkgikffuziu:gqugoul 
kszgxkk agvl gabvcugkszgornuagpkzgbmugluiuaarbtgvl gauznriugkpgksz
pzrul a;g.sbgbkgikffslrivbugvgfvl’agmklksz,gvl gbkgzk.ugvlkbmuzgqrbmgv
fvl’agkqlgxokzt,gragnuztgzvzuotgauulj

Vl gtubgqugmvnugakfuguhvfwouagkpgbmvbgcrl jggIvbsosagOsibvbrsagrlgbmu
Irf.zrvlgqvz,gmvnrlxg klugvoogbmvbgrlgmrfgovtgbkgfvcugmragpotrlxgako ruza
pviugv.ksbgswklgbmuguluft,gzvlgmrfauopgvbgovabgvqvtgqrbmgbmugzuab,gvl 
ikslbuzpurbu gbmugikqvz ,gbkgbmugul gmragfulgfrxmbgzvbmuzgauufgbkgpkookq
bmurzgivwbvrlgbmvlgbkgpotgpzkfgbmuguluft;gqmrimgqvagbkgv.vl klgmragkql
zuwsbvbrklgrlgkz uzgbkgiknuzgbmugamvfugkpgkbmuzajggQmulgImvzouagNjgivfu
rlbkgWzknuliugrlgbmugtuvzg1537,g‘bragavr gbmvbgVlbklrkg ugOunv,gauurlx
bmugufwuzkzgwkarbrnuotgzuakonu gswklgbmraguhwu rbrkl,gvl g.uorunrlxgrb
qkso gzu ksl gnuztgfsimgbkgmragmklksz,g r ,glunuzbmuouaa,gnuztgabrppot
kwwkaugrbgrlgbmugiksliro,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmugulbrzugxokztgkpgbmvb
zuakosbrklgamkso g.ugvbbzr.sbu gbkgmragfvabuz,gvl gbmvbgrbgfrxmbg.ugavr 
mragkqlgqra kfgvl gpkzuarxmbgmv g.uulgasimgvagbmvb,giklbzvztgbkgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgvoo,gmugmv g.zksxmbgv.ksbgakgxzuvbgvlgulbuzwzrau;gqmrimgqvagbk
 kgmrfgmklkszgvbgmragkqlguhwulaujggBmugBmzvirvlgvf.vaav kzagikfrlxgbk
ikfpkzbgVzimrouklr v,gbmugfkbmuzgkpg.zvar va,gswklgbmug uvbmgkpgmuzgakl,
vl gikfful rlxgmrfgbkgbmvbgmurxmbgvagbkgavtgmugmv glkbgoupbgmragorcu
.umrl gmrf,gamugzuyuibu gbmragwzrnvbugvl gwvzbrisovzgikfful vbrklgbk
vbbzr.sbugrbgbkgbmugws.ori:g“Buoogfuglkbgbmvb,”gavr gamu;g“Rgclkqgbmu
irbtgkpgAwvzbvgmvagfvltgirbrdulag.kbmgxzuvbuzgvl gkpgxzuvbuzgqkzbmgbmvl
muj”gggRlgbmug.vbbougkpgIzuit,gbmugWzrliugkpgQvoua,g.urlxgbmulgnuzt
tkslx,gmv gbmugnvlxsvz gikffrbbu gbkgmrf:gbmugfvrlgabzuaagkpgbmug.vbbou
mvwwulu gbkg.ugrlgbmvbgwoviu,gqmrimgfv ugbmugokz agqmkgquzugqrbmgmrf,
prl rlxgbmufauonuagknuzfvbimu ,gaul gbkgCrlxgU qvz gbkgv nvliugbkgbmurz
zuorupjggMugrlesrzu gkpgbmugikl rbrklgmragaklgqvagrl,gvl g.urlxgvlaquzu 
bmvbgmugqvagvornugvl gklgmkzau.vic:g“Rgamkso ,gbmul,g kgmrfgqzklx,”gavr 
bmugcrlx,g“lkqgbkgxkgvl g uwzrnugmrfgkpgbmugmklkszgkpgqrllrlxgbmrag.vbbou
mugmvagakgoklxgvl gakg.zvnuotgasabvrlu ;gqmvbgmvdvz gakunuzgmugzsla,gbmvb
amvoog.ugulbrzuotgmragkql”;gvl ,gviikz rlxot,gqkso glurbmuzgxkglkzgaul ,
clkqrlxgbmvbgrpgmugqulb,grbgqkso g.ugavr gvoogmv g.uulgokabgqrbmksbgmra
asiiksz,gvl gbmvbgbmugmklkszgkpgbmugnribkztgqkso g.ugqmkootgvbbzr.sbu gbk
mrfj

gggggggggggggg“Aufwuzgulrfgesk gwkabzufsfgv yuibsfguab,
gggggggggggggggr gzufgbkbvfgnr ubszgbzvhraauj”

ggggg[“Pkzgvoqvtagbmvbgqmrimgragovabgv  u ,gauufagbkgmvnugviikfworamu 
gggggbmugqmkougvppvrzj”--Ornt,ghhnrrjg45j]

FvltgvbgZkfugbmksxmb,gvl gqkso gsasvootgavt,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgkp
Airwrk’agvibagquzugrlgwvzbg sugbkgOvuorsa,gqmkaugiklabvlbgwzvibriugrbgqva
abroogbkgv nvliugvl gaswwkzbgAirwrk’agxzvl uszgvl gzulkql,gqrbmksbgvlt
ivzugkpgmragkqljggVl gBmukwkfwsa,gcrlxgkpgAwvzbv,gbkgmrfgqmkgbko gmrfgbmu
zuws.origikso glkbgfraivzztgarliugmugcluqgakgquoogmkqgbkgikffvl ,g“Bra
zvbmuz,”gvlaquzu gmu,g“.uivsaugbmugwukwougclkqgakgquoogmkqgbkgk.utj”
gVagqkfulgasiiuu rlxgbkgwuuzvxuagmv ,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmurzgauh,gbmu
wzrnrouxugbkgvbbul gvl gxrnugbmurzgnkbuagrlgbmugbzrvoagbmvbgvwwuzbvrlu 
bkgbmugyszra ribrklgkpgwuuza;gakgbmuguiiouarvabrivogwuuza,
lkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmurzgwzkpuaarkl,gquzugk.orxu gbkgvbbul gkszgcrlxagrl
bmurzgqvza,glkbgklotgqrbmgbmurzgpzrul agvl gauznvlba,g.sbgrlgbmurzgkql
wuzaklajggVagbmug.ramkwgkpg.uvsnvrag r ,gqmkg.urlxgqrbmgWmrorwgVsxsabsa
vbgbmug.vbbougkpg.ksnrlua,gmv gvglkbv.ougamvzugrlgbmvbgvibrkl;g.sbgmug r 
lkbgbmrlcgrbgprbgpkzgmrfgbkgwvzbrirwvbugrlgbmugpzsrbgvl gxokztgkpgbmvb
nrkoulbgvl g.okk tgbzv ujggMugqrbmgmragkqlgmvl gzu siu gaunuzvogkpgbmu
uluftgbmvbg vtgbkgmragfuzit,gqmkfgmug uornuzu gbkgbmugprzabgxulboufvlgmu
fubgurbmuzgbkgcroogkzgzuiurnugbmufgbkgesvzbuz,gzupuzzrlxgbmugqmkou
uhuisbrklgbkgbmragkbmuzgmvl ;gvl gmug r gbmragqrbmgzuxvz gbkgQroorvf,
UvzogkpgAvora.szt,gqmkfgmugxvnugswgbkgFuaarzugYumvlg ugLuaoujggQrbmgv
orcugas.boubtgkpgiklairuliugbkgbmvbgRgmvnugysabglvfu ,gmugqkso gcroog.sb
lkbgqksl ,gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgunuzgpksxmbgqrbmgvgfviujggVl gvgiuzbvrl
wuzaklgkpgftgbrfu,g.urlxgzuwzkvimu g.tgbmugcrlxgbmvbgmugmv govr gmvl agkl
vgwzruab,gabrppotgvl gwkarbrnuotg ulru gmugmv g klugvltgasimgbmrlx:gbmu
fuvlrlxgkpgqmrimgqva,gmugmv gis xuoou gvl gcricu gmrfj




IMVWBUZgHORR

KPgBMUgRLUESVORBTgVFKSLXABgSAj

Wosbvzimgavtagakfuqmuzugbmvbgmug kuaglkbgprl gakgxzuvbgvg rppuzuliu
.ubqrhbg.uvabgvl g.uvabgvagmug kuag.ubqrhbgfvlgvl gfvl;gqmrimgmugavtagrl
zupuzuliugbkgbmugrlbuzlvogesvorbruagvl gwuzpuibrklagkpgbmugaksojggVl ,grl
bzsbm,gRgprl gakgnvabgvg rabvliug.ubqrhbgUwvfrlkl va,gviikz rlxgbkgft
ys xfulbgkpgmrf,gvl gakfugbmvbgRgclkq,gqmkgvzugtubgfulgkpgxkk gaulau,
bmvbgRgikso gqroorlxotgulmvliugswklgWosbvzim,gvl gavtgbmvbgbmuzugragfkzu
 rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgasimgvl gasimgvgfvlgbmvlgbmuzugrag.ubqrhbgasimgvgfvl
vl gasimgvg.uvab:

gggggggggg[“Vm!gmkqgfsimgfvtgklugfvlgaszwvaagvlkbmuz!”
ggggggggggg--Buzuliu,gUslsimsa,grrjg2j]

vl gbmvbgbmuzugvzugvagfvltgvl grllsfuzv.oug uxzuuagkpgfrl gvagbmuzugvzu
is.rbag.ubqrhbgbmragvl gmuvnuljgg.sbgvagbksimrlxgbmuguabrfvbugkpgful,
‘bragabzvlxugbmvb,gkszauonuaguhiuwbu ,glkgkbmuzgizuvbszugraguabuufu 
.utkl grbagwzkwuzgesvorbrua;gqugikfful gvgmkzaugpkzgmragabzulxbmgvl 
aszuluaagkpgpkkb,

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Nkosizuf
gggggggggggggggArigovs vfsaguessf,gpvirorgisrgwoszrfvgwvofv
gggggggggggggggPuznub,gubguhasobvbgzvsikgnribkzrvgirzik,”

ggggg[“Akgqugwzvraugbmugaqrpbgmkzau,gpkzgqmkauguvatgfvabuztgfvltgvgmvl 
gggggxokqagrlgvwwovsau,gvl gnribkztguhsobagrlgbmugmkvzaugirzisaj
ggggg--“Ysnulvo,gnrrrjg57j]

vl glkbgpkzgmragzrimgivwvzrakl;gvgxzutmksl gpkzgmragawuu gkpgmuuoa,glkb
pkzgmragprlugikoovz;gvgmvqcgpkzgmuzgqrlx,glkbgpkzgmuzgxuaauagvl g.uooaj
Qmt,grlgorcugfvlluz,g kgquglkbgnvosugvgfvlgpkzgqmvbgragwzkwuzotgmragkql?
Mugmvagvgxzuvbgbzvrl,gvg.uvsbrpsogwvoviu,gakgfsimgizu rb,gakgfvlt
bmksavl gwksl agvgtuvz:gvoogbmuaugvzugv.ksbgmrf,g.sbglkbgrlgmrfjggTks
qrooglkbg.stgvgwrxgrlgvgwkcu:grpgtksgimuvwulgvgmkzau,gtksgqroogauugmrf
abzrwwu gkpgmragmksarlx-iokbma,gtksgqroogauugmrfglvcu gvl gkwulgbkgtksz
utu;gkzgrpgmug.ugiokbmu ,gvagbmutgvlirulbotgquzugqklbgbkgwzuaulbgbmufgbk
wzrliuagbkgauoo,g‘bragklotgklgbmugouaagrfwkzbvlbgwvzba,gbmvbgtksgfvtglkb
akgfsimgiklar uzgbmug.uvsbtgkpgmragikokszgkzgbmug.zuv bmgkpgmragizswwuz,
vagwzrlirwvootgbkguhvfrlugmragouxa,gutua,gvl gpuub,gqmrimgvzugbmugfuf.uza
kpgxzuvbuabgsau:

ggggggggg“Zuxr.sagmrigfkaguab:gs.rgueskagfuzivlbsz,gkwuzbka
ggggggggggRlawrirslb;glu,gargpvirua,gsbgavuwu,g uikzv
ggggggggggFkoorgpsobvgwu uguab,gufwbkzufgrl sivbgmrvlbuf”

ggggg[“Bmragragbmugisabkfgkpgcrlxa:gqmulgbmutg.stgmkzaua,gbmutgmvnugkwul
gggggrlawuibrkl,gouab,grpgvgpvrzgmuv ,gvagkpbulgimvliua,gragaswwkzbu g.t
gggggvgquvcgpkkb,grbgamkso gbufwbgbmugxvwrlxgwszimvauzj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg2,g86j]

qmt,grlgxrnrlxgtkszguabrfvbugkpgvgfvl,g kgtksgwzrdugmrfgqzvwwu gvl 
fsppou gswgrlgiokbmua?ggMugbmulg raiknuzaglkbmrlxgbkgtksg.sbgasimgwvzba
vagvzuglkbgrlgbmugouvabgmragkql,gvl gikliuvoagbmkaug.tgqmrimgvoklugklu
fvtgzrxmbotgys xugkpgmragnvosujgg‘Bragbmugwzriugkpgbmug.ov ugbmvbgtks
rlesrzugrlbk,glkbgkpgbmugaiv..vz :gtksgqkso glkbgwuzv nulbszug.r gv
pvzbmrlxgpkzgmrf,grpgtksgavqgmrfgabzrwwu jggTksgvzugbkgys xugmrfg.t
mrfauopgvl glkbg.tgqmvbgmugquvza;gvl ,gvagklugkpgbmugvlirulbagnuzt
wouvavlbotgavr :g“ kgtksgclkqgqmtgtksgzuwsbugmrfgbvoo?ggTksgzuicklgqrbmvo
bmugmurxmbgkpgmragwvbbulaj”--[Auluiv,gUwjg76j]--Bmugwu uabvograglkgwvzb
kpgbmugabvbsujggFuvaszugmrfgqrbmksbgmragabroba;goubgmrfgovtgvar ugmra
zunulsuagvl gmragbrboua;goubgmrfgwzuaulbgmrfauopgrlgmragamrzbjgBmul
uhvfrlugrpgmrag.k tg.ugaksl gvl gawzrxmbot,gvibrnugvl g rawkau gbk
wuzpkzfgrbagpslibrklajggQmvbgaksogmvagmu?ggRagamug.uvsbrpso,givwv.ou,gvl 
mvwwrotgwzknr u gkpgvoogmuzgpvisobrua?ggRagamugzrimgkpgqmvbgragmuzgkql,
kzgkpgqmvbgamugmvag.kzzkqu ?ggMvagpkzbsluglkgmvl grlgbmugvppvrz?ggIvl
amu,gqrbmksbgqrlcrlx,gabvl gbmugorxmblrlxgkpgaqkz a?gragamugrl rppuzulb
qmubmuzgmuzgorpuguhwrzug.tgbmugfksbmgkzgbmzksxmgbmugbmzkvb?ggRagamu
aubbou ,gunulgvl giklbulb?ggBmragragqmvbgragbkg.uguhvfrlu ,gvl g.tgbmvb
tksgvzugbkgys xugkpgbmugnvabg rppuzuliuag.ubqrhbgfvlgvl gfvljggRagmu:

gggggggggg“Avwrula,gar.resugrfwuzrkasa,
ggggggggggEsuzlgluesugwvswuzrua,gluesugfkza,gluesugnrlisovgbuzzulb;
ggggggggggZuawklavzugiswr rlr.sa,giklbufluzugmklkzua
ggggggggggPkzbra;gubgrlgaurwakgbkbsagbuzuagvbesugzkbsl sa,
ggggggggggUhbuzlrglugesr gnvouvbgwuzgovunugfkzvzr;
ggggggggggRlgesufgfvlivgzsrbgaufwuzgpkzbslv?”


ggggg[“Bmugqraugfvl,gauop-xknuzlu ,gqmkfglurbmuzgwknuzbt,glkzg uvbm,
ggggglkzgimvrlagvppzrxmb:gqmkgmvagbmugabzulxbmgbkgzuarabgmragvwwubrbua
gggggvl gbkgiklbuflgmklksza:gqmkgragqmkootgauop-iklbvrlu :gqmkfglk
ggggguhbuzlvogk.yuibagvppuib:gqmkfgpkzbslugvaavroagrlgnvrlj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grrjg7,]

asimgvgfvlgragprnugmsl zu gis.rbagv.knugcrlx kfagvl g simrua;gmugragvl
v.akosbugfklvzimgrlgvl gbkgmrfauop:

gggggggggg“Avwrula,gjggjggjggWko!ggrwaugprlxrbgpkzbslvfgar.r;”

gggggggggg[“Bmugqraugfvlgragbmugfvabuzgkpgmragkqlgpkzbslu,”
ggggggggggg--Wovsbsa,gBzrlj,grrjg2,g84j]

qmvbgzufvrlagpkzgmrfgbkgiknubgkzg uarzu?

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lkllugnr ufsa,
ggggggggggLrogvors gar.rglvbszvfgovbzvzu,glrargsb,geskr
ggggggggggIkzwkzugauyslibsag kokzgv.arb,gfulbugpzsvbsz,
ggggggggggYsisl kgaulas,giszvgaufkbs’gfubsesu?”

ggggg[“ kgquglkbgauugbmvbgmsfvlglvbszugvacaglkgfkzugpkzgrbauopgbmvl
gggggbmvb,gpzuugpzkfg.k rotgwvrl,grbgfvtguhuziraugrbagfrl gvxzuuv.ot,
ggggguhufwbgpzkfgivzugvl gpuvzj”--Osizubrsa,grrjg16j]

Ikfwvzugqrbmgasimgvgklugbmugikffklgzv..ougkpgfvlcrl ,gabswr gvl 
fuvl-awrzrbu ,gauznrou,grlabv.ou,gvl giklbrlsvootgpokvbrlxgqrbmgbmu
bufwuabgkpgnvzrksagwvaarkla,gbmvbgbkaauagvl gbsf.ouagbmufgbkgvl gpzk,gvl 
voog uwul rlxgswklgkbmuza,gvl gtksgqroogprl gvgxzuvbuzg rabvliugbmvl
.ubqrhbgmuvnulgvl guvzbm;gvl gtubgbmug.orl luaagkpgikffklgsavxugragasim
bmvbgqugfvcugorbbougkzglkgviikslbgkpgrb;gqmuzuvagrpgqugiklar uzgvgwuvavlb
vl gvgcrlx,gvglk.oufvlgvl gvgnvaavo,gvgfvxrabzvbugvl gvgwzrnvbugfvl,gv
zrimgfvlgvl gvgwkkz,gbmuzugvwwuvzagvgnvabg rawvzrbt,gbmksxmgbmutg rppuz
lkgfkzu,gvagvgfvlgfvtgavt,gbmvlgrlgbmurzg.zuuimuaj

RlgBmzviugbmugcrlxgqvag rabrlxsramu gpzkfgmragwukwougvpbuzgvgnuzt
wouvavlbgvl guawuirvogfvlluz;gmugmv gvgzuorxrklg.tgmrfauop,gvgxk gvoogmra
kql,gvl gqmrimgmragas.yuibagquzuglkbgbkgwzuasfugbkgv kzu,gqmrimgqva
Fuziszt,gqmroab,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gmug ra vrlu gbkgmvnugvltbmrlxgbkg k
qrbmgbmurza,gFvza,g.viimsa,gvl g rvlvjggVl gtubgbmutgvzuglkgkbmuzgbmvl
wribszuagbmvbgfvcuglkguaaulbrvog raarfrorbs u;gpkzgvagtksgauugvibkzagrlgv
wovtgzuwzuaulbrlxgbmugwuzaklgkpgvg scugkzgvlgufwuzkzgswklgbmugabvxu,gvl 
rffu rvbuotgvpbuzgzubszlgbkgbmurzgbzsugvl gkzrxrlvogikl rbrklgkpgnvouba
vl gwkzbuza,gakgbmugufwuzkz,gqmkaugwkfwgvl gosabzugakg vddougtksgrl
ws.ori:

ggggggggggggggg“Airoriubgxzvl uagnrzr rgisfgosiugafvzvx r
gggggggggggggggVsbkgrlios slbsz,gbuzrbszesugbmvovaarlvgnuabra
gggggggggggggggVaar su,gubgNuluzragas kzufguhuzirbvgwkbvb;”

ggggg[“.uivsaugmugquvzagxzuvbgufuzvo agzrimotgaubgrlgxko ,g vzbrlxgxzuul
gggggosabzu;gvl gbmugauv-.osugaroculgzk.u,gqkzlgqrbmgwzuaaszu,gvl gfkrab
gggggqrbmgroorirbgoknug(vl gv.akz.agbmugaquvbgkpgNulsa)j”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grnjg1123j]

 kg.sbgwuuwg.umrl gbmugiszbvrl,gvl gtksgqroogauuglkgbmrlxgfkzugbmvlgvl
kz rlvztgfvl,gvl gwuzv nulbszugfkzugiklbufwbr.ougbmvlgbmugfuvluabgkpgmra
as.yuiba:

ggggg“Rooug.uvbsagrlbzkzasfguab,grabrsag.zvibuvbvgpuorirbvaguab;”

ggggg[“Bmugklugragmvwwtgrlgmrfauop;gbmugmvwwrluaagkpgbmugkbmuzgra
gggggikslbuzpurbj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g115j]

ikqvz riu,grzzuakosbrkl,gvf.rbrkl,gawrbu,gvl gulntgvxrbvbugmrfgvagfsimgva
vlkbmuz:

gggggggggggggg“Lklgulrfgxvdvu,gluesugiklasovzra
gggggggggggggggAs.fknubgoribkzgfrauzkagbsfsobsa
gggggggggggggggFulbra,gubgiszvagovesuvbvgirzisf
gggggggggggggggBuibvgnkovlbuaj”

ggggg[“Pkzglkbgbzuvaszua,glkzgbmugiklasovzgoribkz,givlgzufknugbmu
gggggfrauzv.ougbsfsobagkpgbmugfrl ,glkzgivzuagbmvbgpotgv.ksbgwvluoou 
gggggiurorlxaj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg16,g9j]

Ivzugvl gpuvzgvbbvicgmrfgunulgrlgbmugiulbzugkpgmrag.vbbvorkla:

ggggggggggggggg“Zugnuzvesugfubsagmkfrlsfgiszvuesugauesviua
gggggggggggggggLuigfubsslbgaklrbsagvzfkzsf,gluugpuzvgbuov;
gggggggggggggggVs vibuzesugrlbuzgzuxua,gzuzsfesugwkbulbua
gggggggggggggggNuzavlbsz,gluesugpsoxkzufgzunuzulbszgv.gvszkj”

ggggg[“Vl grlgbzsbmgbmugpuvzagvl gmvslbrlxgivzuagkpgfulgpuvzglkbgbmu
gggggiovamgkpgvzfaglkzgwkrlbagkpg vzba,gvl gfrlxoug.ko otgqrbmgxzuvb
gggggcrlxagvl gfulgrlgvsbmkzrbt,glkzgzuawuibgbmugxorbbuzgkpgxko j”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrjg47j]

 kgpunuza,gxksb,gvl gvwkwouhruagawvzugmrfgvltgfkzugbmvlgklugkpgsa?ggQmul
ko gvxugmvlxagmuvntgswklgmragamkso uza,givlgbmugtukfulgkpgmragxsvz guvau
mrfgkpgbmug.sz ul?ggQmulgmugragvabksl u gqrbmgbmugvwwzumularklgkpg uvbm,
ivlgbmugxulboufulgkpgmrag.u imvf.uzgikfpkzbgvl gvaaszugmrf?ggQmul
yuvoksatgkzgvltgkbmuzgivwzriugaqrfagrlgmrag.zvrl,givlgkszgikfworfulbagvl 
iuzufklruagzuabkzugmrfgbkgmragxkk -msfksz?ggBmugivlkwtguf.zkr uzu gqrbm
wuvzogvl gxko gmugoruagsl uzgmvaglkgnrzbsugvxvrlabgvgnrkoulbgprbgkpgbmu
ikori:

ggggggggggggggg“Luugivor vugirbrsag uiu slbgikzwkzugpu.zua
gggggggggggggggBuhbror.sagargrlgwribszra,gkabzkesugzs.ulbr
gggggggggggggggYvibvzra,gesvfgargwou.urvgrlgnuabugis.vl sfguabj”

ggggg[“Lkzg kg.szlrlxgpunuzagesrbgtksgakkluzgrpgtksgvzugabzubimu gklgv
gggggiksimgkpgzrimgbvwuabztgvl grlgvgnuabgkpgwszwoug tu,gbmvlgrpgtksg.u
gggggrlgvgikvzaug.ovlcubj”--R uf,grrjg34j]

BmugpovbbuzuzagkpgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvbgwkaauaau gmrfgbmvbgmugqvagbmugakl
kpgYswrbuz;g.sbg.urlxgklug vtgqksl u ,gvl gk.auznrlxgbmug.okk gabzuvf
pzkfgmragqksl :g“Qmvbgavtgtksglkq,gftgfvabuza,”gavr gmu,g“raglkbgbmra
.okk gkpgvgizrfaklgikokszgvl gwszuotgmsfvl?ggBmragraglkbgkpgbmu
ikfwouhrklgkpgbmvbgqmrimgMkfuzgfvcuagbkgraasugpzkfgbmugqksl u gxk aj”
gBmugwkubgMuzfk kzsagmv gqzrbbulgvgwkufgrlgmklkszgkpgVlbrxklsa,gqmuzurl
mugivoou gmrfgbmugaklgkpgbmugasl:g“Mugqmkgmvagbmugufwbtrlxgkpgft
iokau-abkko,”gavr gVlbrxklsa,g“clkqagbkgbmugiklbzvztj”ggMugrag.sbgvgfvl
vbg.uab,gvl grpgmug.ug upkzfu gkzgroo-esvorpru gpzkfgmrag.rzbm,gbmu
ufwrzugkpgbmugslrnuzaugivllkbgaubgmrfgbkgzrxmba:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Wsuoovu
ggggggggggMsligzvwrvlb;gesr esr givoivnuzrbgmri,gzkavgprvb,”

ggggg[“Oubgxrzoagivzztgmrfgkpp;gqmuzunuzgmugabuwagoubgbmuzugawzrlxgswgv
gggggzkau!”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grrjg38j]

qmvbgkpgvoogbmvb,grpgmug.ugvgpkko?ggunulgwouvaszugvl gxkk gpkzbslugvzu
lkbgzuoramu gqrbmksbgnrxkszgvl gsl uzabvl rlx:

gggggggggg“Mvuigwuzrl ugaslb,gsbgrorsagvlrfsa;gesrguvgwkaar ub
ggggggggggEsrgsbrgairb,gurg.klv;groor,gesrglklgszrbszgzuibu,gfvovj”

ggggg[“Bmrlxagvzu,gvagragbmugfrl gkpgbmurzgwkaauaakz;gqmkgclkqagmkqgbk
gggggsaugbmuf,gbkgmrfgbmutgvzugxkk ;gbkgmrfgqmkgv.sauagbmuf,grooj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gMuvzbj,grjgg3,g21j]

Qmvbunuzgbmug.uluprbagkpgpkzbslugvzu,gbmutgtubgzuesrzugvgwvovbugbkgzuoram
bmufjgg‘Bragpzsrbrkl,gvl glkbgwkaauaarkl,gbmvbgzul uzagsagmvwwt:

ggggg[“‘Braglkbgovl a,gkzgvgmuvwgkpg.zvaagvl gxko ,gbmvbgmvagzufknu 
gggggpunuzagpzkfgbmugvrorlxg.k tgkpgbmugkqluz,gkzgivzuagpzkfgmragfrl j
gggggBmugwkaauaakzgfsabg.ugmuvobmt,grpgmugbmrlcagbkgfvcugxkk gsaugkpgmra
gggggzuvorau gquvobmjggBkgmrfgqmkgragiknubksagkzgbrfkzksagmragmksaugvl 
ggggguabvbugvzugvagvgwribszugbkgvg.orl gfvl,gkzgvgpkfulbvbrklgbkgv
gggggxksbtj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg2,g47j]

Mugragvgakb,gmragbvabugragwvoou gvl gpovb;gmuglkgfkzugulyktagqmvbgmugmva
bmvlgklugbmvbgmvagvgiko gzuoramuagbmugpovnkszgkpgivlvzt,gkzgbmvlgvgmkzau
ragaular.ougkpgmragzrimgivwvzrakljggWovbkgragrlgbmugzrxmbgqmulgmugbuooa
sagbmvbgmuvobm,g.uvsbt,gnrxksz,gvl gzrimua,gvl gvoogbmugkbmuzgbmrlxa
ivoou gxkk a,gvzuguesvootgunrogbkgbmugslysabgvagxkk gbkgbmugysab,gvl gbmu
unrogklgbmugiklbzvztgbmugavfujggVl gbmuzupkzugqmuzugbmug.k tgvl gbmugfrl 
vzugrlg rakz uz,gbkgqmvbgsaugauznugbmuauguhbuzlvogiklnulruliua:
iklar uzrlxgbmvbgbmugouvabgwzricgqrbmgvgwrl,gkzgbmugouvabgwvaarklgkpgbmu
akso,gragaspprirulbgbkg uwzrnugklugkpgbmugwouvaszugkpg.urlxgakougfklvzim
kpgbmugqkzo jggVbgbmugprzabgbqrbimgkpgbmugxksbgrbgarxlrpruagfsimgbkg.u
ivoou gArzgvl gTkszgFvyuabt!

ggggggggggggggg“Bkbsagubgvzxulbkgiklpovbsa,gbkbsagubgvszk;”

ggggg[“Qmkootgfv ugswgkpgaronuzgvl gxko j”--Br.soosa,grjg2,g70j]

 kuagmuglkbgpkzxubgmragwvoviuagvl gxrzvl usza?ggRpgmug.ugvlxzt,givlgmra
.urlxgvgwzrliugcuuwgmrfgpzkfgokkcrlxgzu gvl gokkcrlxgwvou,gvl gxzrl rlx
mragbuubmgorcugvgfv fvl?ggLkq,grpgmug.ugvgfvlgkpgwvzbagvl gkpgzrxmb
lvbszu,gzktvobtgv  agnuztgorbbougbkgmragmvwwrluaa;

gggggggggg“Argnulbzrg.ulu,gargovbuzrguab,gwu r.saesugbsppa,glro
gggggggggg rnrbrhgwkbuzslbgzuxvouagv  uzugfvysa;”

ggggg[“Rpgrbgragquoogqrbmgbmtg.uoot,gbmtgar ugvl gbmtgpuub,gzuxvogquvobm
gggggqroog.ugv.ougbkgv  glkbmrlxj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg12,g5j]

mug raiuzlag‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgikslbuzpurbgvl gxsoouztjggLvt,gwuzmvwagmu
qkso g.ugkpgCrlxgAuousisa’gkwrlrkl,gbmvbgmugqmkgcluqgbmugqurxmbgkpgv
aiuwbzugqkso glkbgabkkwgbkgwricgrbgsw,grpgmugavqgrbgotrlxg.upkzugmrf,gak
xzuvbgvl gwvrlpsogvzugbmug sbruagrlisf.ulbgswklgvgxkk gcrlxj--[Wosbvzim,
RpgvgAvxugamkso gFu  ougqrbmgVppvrzagkpgAbvou,gijg12j]--Vaaszu otgrbgivl
.uglkguvatgbvacgbkgzsougkbmuza,gqmulgqugprl grbgakgmvz gvgfvbbuzgbk
xknuzlgkszauonua;gvl gvagbkg kfrlrkl,gbmvbgauufagakgimvzfrlx,gbmugpzvrobt
kpgmsfvlgys xfulbgvl gbmug rpprisobtgkpgimkriugrlgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugluqgvl 
 ks.bpsogiklar uzu ,gRgvfgnuztgfsimgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrbgragpvzgfkzuguvat
vl gwouvavlbgbkgpkookqgbmvlgbkgouv ;gvl gbmvbgrbgragvgxzuvbgaubboufulb
vl gavbrapvibrklgkpgfrl gbkgmvnugklotgklugwvbmgbkgqvocgrl,gvl gbkgmvnu
lklugbkgvlaquzgpkzg.sbgvgfvl’agauop;

ggggggggggggggg“Sbgavbrsagfsobkgyvfgarbgwvzuzugesrubsf,
gggggggggggggggEsvfgzuxuzugrfwuzrkgzuagnuoouj”

ggggg[“‘Bragfsimg.ubbuzgesrubotgbkgk.utgbmvlgqramgbkgzsouj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,gN,g1126j]

Bkgqmrimgqugfvtgv  gbmvbgavtrlxgkpgItzsa,gbmvbglkgfvlgqvagprbgbkgzsoug.sb
mugqmkgrlgmragkqlgqkzbmgqvagkpgxzuvbuzgnvosugbmvlgbmkaugmugqvagbkgxknuzl;
.sbgCrlxgMruzkgrlgHulkwmklgavtagpszbmuz,gbmvbgrlgbmugpzsrbrklgunulgkp
wouvaszugrbauopgbmutgvzugrlgvgqkzaugikl rbrklgbmvlgwzrnvbugful;gpkzvafsim
vagbmugkwwkzbslrbruagvl gpvirorbtgbmutgmvnugkpgikffvl rlxgbmkaugbmrlxagvb
qroogbvcuagkppgpzkfgbmug uorxmbgbmvbgkz rlvztgpkocagulykt:

gggggggggg“Wrlxsragvfkz,glrfrsfesugwvbula,grlgbvu rvglk.ra
ggggggggggNuzbrbsz,gub,gabkfvimkg soiragsbguaiv,glkiubj”

ggggg[“Oknugrlguhiuaagvl gbkkgwvowv.ougbszlagbkgquvzrluaa,gvl ,gorcu
gggggaquubfuvbagbkgbmugabkfvim,gragrlyszrksaj”--Knr ,gVfktj,grrjg19,g25j]

Ivlgqugbmrlcgbmvbgbmugarlxrlxg.ktagkpgbmugimkrzgbvcugvltgxzuvbg uorxmbgrl
fsari?ggbmugavbrubtgzvbmuzgzul uzagrbgbzks.ouakfugvl gbu rksagbkgbmufj
Puvaba,g.vooa,gfvaesuzv uagvl gbrobrlxag uorxmbgasimgvag.sbgzvzuotgauu,
vl g uarzugbkgauu,gbmuf;g.sbgmvnrlxg.uulgpzuesulbotgvbgasim
ulbuzbvrlfulba,gbmugzuoramgkpgbmufgxzkqagpovbgvl grlarwr jggLkzg kgqkful
akgfsimg uorxmbgbmkaugqmkgfvcugvgikffklgwzvibriugkpgbmugawkzbjggMugqmk
qrooglkbgxrnugmrfauopgouraszugbkg.ugbmrzabtgivlglunuzgprl gbmugbzsu
wouvaszugkpg zrlcrlxjggPvziuagvl gbsf.orlxgbzricagvzugwouvavlbgbkgbmu
awuibvbkza,g.sbgvgquvzrakfugbkrogbkgbmkaug.tgqmkfgbmutgvzugwuzpkzfu j
Vl gbmvbgbmragragak,gqugauugbmvbgwzrliuag rnuzbgbmufauonuagakfubrfuagrl
 raxsrarlxgbmurzgesvorbt,gvqmrougbkg uwkaugbmufauonua,gvl gbkgabkkwgbk
bmugwkkzgvl gkz rlvztgqvtgkpgornrlxgkpgbmugfuvluabgkpgbmurzgwukwouj

gggggggggggggg“Wouzsfesugxzvbvug rnrbr.sagnriua
gggggggggggggggFsl vuesugwvznkgas.govzugwvswuzsf
gggggggggggggggIkulvu,garlugvsovuragubgkabzk,
gggggggggggggggAkorrirbvfguhworisuzugpzklbufj”

ggggg[“Bmugzrimgvzugkpbulgwouvau gqrbmgnvzrubt;gvl gbmugwovrlgaswwuzgrlgv
gggggwkkzgikbbvxu,gqrbmksbgbvwuabztgvl gwszwou,gmvagzuovhu gbmugvlhrksa
ggggg.zkqj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjgg29,g13j]

Lkbmrlxgragakg rabvabupsogvl giokxxrlxgvagv.sl vliujggQmvbgvwwubrbugqkso 
lkbg.ug.vppou gbkgauugbmzuugmsl zu gqkfulgvbgrbagfuzit,gvagbmugxzvl 
arxlkzgmvagrlgmragauzvxork?ggVl ,gkpgmragvliuabkzagqmvbgpzsrbrklgkzgbvabu
kpgawkzbg r gmugzuauznugbkgmrfauop,gqmkglunuzgqulbgmvqcrlxgqrbmksbgaunul
bmksavl gpvoikluza?ggVl g.uar uagvoogbmra,gRgpvlitgbmvbgbmragosabzugkp
xzvl uszg.zrlxagqrbmgrbglkgorbboug rabsz.vliugvl gsluvarluaagswklgbmu
ulyktfulbgkpgbmugfkabgbufwbrlxgwouvaszua;gbmugxzuvbgvzugbkkgiklawrisksa
vl gorugbkkgkwulgbkgunuztgklu’agnruqjggLurbmuzg kgRgclkqgbkgqmvbgul gv
fvlgamkso gfkzugzuesrzugkpgbmufgbkgikliuvogbmurzguzzkza,garliugqmvbgra
klotgzuwsbu grl raizubrklgrlgsa,gbmugwukwougrlgbmufg.zvl gqrbmgbmuglvfua
kpgbtzvlltgvl giklbufwbgkpgbmugovqa,gvl ,g.uar uagbmurzgwzkiornrbtgbk
nriu,gvzugvwbgbkgmko gbmvbgrbgragvgmurxmbulrlxgkpgwouvaszugbkgbmuf,gbk
rlasobgknuzgvl gbkgbzvfwougswklgws.origk.auznvliuajggWovbk,grl uu ,grl
mragXktxrva,g uprluagvgbtzvlbgbkg.ugklugqmkgrlgvgirbtgmvagoriuliugbkg k
qmvbunuzgmragkqlgqroogouv agmrfgbkg k;gvl g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmragrfwslrbt,
bmug rawovtgvl gws.orivbrklgkpgbmurzgnriuag kgkpbbrfuagfkzugfraimrupgbmvl
bmugnriugrbauopjggUnuztgklugpuvzagbkg.ugwzru grlbkgvl gknuzokkcu ;g.sb
wzrliuagvzugak,gunulgbkgbmurzgnuztgxuabszua,gokkcagvl gbmksxmba,gbmu
wukwougikliurnrlxgbmutgmvnugzrxmbgvl gbrbougbkg.ugys xuagkpgbmufg.uar ua
bmvbgbmug.ouframuagkpgbmugxzuvbglvbszvootgvwwuvzgxzuvbuzg.tgzuvaklgkpgbmu
ufrluliugvl gosabzugkpgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmutgvzugauvbu ,gvl gbmvbgvgfkou
kzgvgqvzbgvwwuvzagxzuvbuzgrlgbmufgbmvlgvgqr ugxvamgrlgkbmuzajggVl gbmra
ragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugwkubagpurxlgbmugvfkszagkpgYswrbuzgbkg.ugwuzpkzfu 
rlgbmug raxsrauagkpgakgfvltg.kzzkqu gamvwua,gvl gbmvbgvfklxabgbmugfvlt
vfkzksagwzvibriuagbmutgovtgbkgmragimvzxu,gbmuzugragklotgklu,gvagR
zufuf.uz,gqmuzugmugvwwuvzagrlgmragkqlgfvyuabtgvl gxzvl uszj

.sbgoubgsagzubszlgbkgMruzk,gqmkgpszbmuzgikfwovrlagkpgbmugrliklnulruliua
mugpksl grlgmragzktvobt,grlgbmvbgmugikso glkbgokkcgv.zkv gvl gbzvnuogbmu
qkzo gvbgor.uzbt,g.urlxgvagrbgquzugvgwzrakluzgrlgbmug.ksl agvl gorfrbagkp
mragkqlg kfrlrkl,gvl gbmvbgrlgvoogmragvibrklagmugqvagunuzfkzugaszzksl u 
qrbmgvlgrfwkzbslvbugizkq jggVl grlgbzsbm,gbkgauugkszgcrlxagarbgvoogvoklu
vbgbv.ou,gulnrzklu gqrbmgakgfvltgwukwougwzvbrlxgv.ksbgbmuf,gvl gakgfvlt
abzvlxuzagabvzrlxgswklgbmuf,gvagbmutgvoqvtagvzu,gRgmvnugkpbulg.uulgfknu 
zvbmuzgbkgwrbtgbmvlgbkgulntgbmurzgikl rbrkljggCrlxgVopklakgqvagqklbgbk
avt,gbmvbgrlgbmragvaauagquzugrlgvg.ubbuzgikl rbrklgbmvlgcrlxa,gbmurz
fvabuzagwuzfrbbrlxgbmufgbkgpuu gvbgbmurzgkqlguvaugvl gwouvaszu,gvgpvnksz
bmvbgcrlxagivllkbgk.bvrlgkpgbmurzgauznvlbajggVl grbgmvaglunuzgikfugrlbk
ftgpvlitgbmvbgrbgikso g.ugkpgvltgxzuvbg.uluprbgbkgbmugorpugkpgvgfvlgkp
aulaugbkgmvnugbqulbtgwukwougwzvbrlxgv.ksbgmrfgqmulgmugragvbgabkko;gkz
bmvbgbmugauznriuagkpgvgfvlgkpgbulgbmksavl gornzuagvgtuvz,gkzgbmvbgmva
bvculgIvavougkzg upul u gArulv,gamkso g.ugurbmuzgfkzugikffk rksagkzgfkzu
viiuwbv.ougbkgmrf,gbmvlgbmkaugkpgvgxkk gxzkkfgkpgbmugimvf.uzgqmk
sl uzabvl agmragwoviujggBmugv nvlbvxuagkpgaknuzurxlbtgvzugrlgvgfvlluzg.sb
rfvxrlvzt:gunuztg uxzuugkpgpkzbslugmvagrlgrbgakfugrfvxugkpgwzrlirwvorbtj
Ivuavzgivooagvoogbmugokz agkpgPzvliu,gmvnrlxgpzuugpzvlimraugqrbmrlgbmurz
kqlg ufualua,gzkrbuoubagkzgwubbtgcrlxa;gvl grlgbzsbm,gbmuglvfugkpgarzu
uhiuwbu ,gbmutgxkgwzubbtgpvzgbkqvz agcrlxamrw;gpkzg kg.sbgokkcgrlbkgbmu
wzknrliuagzufkbugpzkfgikszb,gvag.zrbbvltgpkzguhvfwou;gbvcuglkbriugkpgbmu
bzvrl,gbmugnvaavoa,gbmugkppriuza,gbmugufwoktfulba,gauznriu,giuzufklt,gvl 
abvbugkpgvgokz gqmkgornuagzubrzu gpzkfgikszbgrlgmragkqlgmksau,gvfklxab
mragkqlgbulvlbagvl gauznvlba;gvl gk.auznugqrbmvogbmugporxmbgkpgmra
rfvxrlvbrkl;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgfkzugzktvo;gmugmuvzagbvocgkpgmragfvabuz
kliugvgtuvz,gvagkpgvgcrlxgkpgWuzarv,gqrbmksbgbvcrlxgvltgpszbmuz
zuikxlrbrklgkpgmrf,gbmvlg.tgakfugzufkbugcrl zu gmragauizubvztgcuuwagrl
akfugzuxrabuzjggVl ,gbkgawuvcgbmugbzsbm,gkszgovqagvzuguvatgulksxm,gak
uvatgbmvbgvgxulboufvlgkpgPzvliugaivziugpuuoagbmugqurxmbgkpgaknuzurxlbt
wrlimgmragamkso uzagv.knugbqriugrlgmragorpujggZuvogvl guppuibsvo
as.yuibrklgklotgikliuzlagasimgvfklxabgsagvagnkoslbvzrotgbmzsabgbmurz
luicagsl uzgbmugtkcu,gvl gqmkg uarxlgbkgxubgquvobmgvl gmklkszag.tgasim
auznriua:gpkzgvgfvlgbmvbgoknuagmragkqlgprzuar u,gvl givlgxknuzlgmragmksau
qrbmksbgpvoorlxg.tgbmuguvzagqrbmgmraglurxm.kszagkzgulxvxrlxgrlgasrbagkp
ovq,gragvagpzuugvagvg scugkpgNulriuj

ggggggggggggggg“Wvsikagauznrbsa,gwoszuagauznrbsbufgbululbj”

gggggggggg[“Auznrbs ugulimvrlagpuq,g.sbgfvltgulimvrlgbmufauonuagbk
ggggggggggauznrbs uj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g22j]

.sbgbmvbgqmrimgMruzkgragfkabgikliuzlu gvbgra,gbmvbgmugprl agmrfauop
abzrwwu gkpgvoogpzrul amrw,g uwzrnu gkpgvoogfsbsvogakirubt,gqmuzurlgbmu
bzsugvl gfkabgwuzpuibgpzsrbrklgkpgmsfvlgorpugiklarabajggPkzgqmvb
buabrfkltgkpgvppuibrklgvl gxkk qroogivlgRguhbzvibgpzkfgmrfgbmvbgkquagfu,
qmubmuzgmugqroogkzglk,gvoogbmvbgmugragv.ougbkg k?ggIvlgRgpkzfgvlt
vaaszvliugkpgmragzuvogzuawuibgbkgfu,gpzkfgmragmsf.ougqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgvl 
as.fraarnug.umvnrksz,gqmulgbmuaugvzugiuzufklruagrbgraglkbgrlgmragimkriu
bkg ult?ggBmugmklkszgqugzuiurnugpzkfgbmkaugbmvbgpuvzgsagraglkbgmklksz;
bmkaugzuawuibagvzug sugbkgzktvobtgvl glkbgbkgfu:

ggggggggggggggg“Fvhrfsfgmkigzuxlrg.klsfguab
gggggggggggggggEsk gpvibvg kfrlrgikxrbszgwkwsosagasr
gggggggggggggggEsvfgpuzzu,gbvfgovs vzuj”

ggggg[“‘Bragbmugxzuvbuabg.uluprbgkpgvgcrlx kfgbmvbgbmugwukwougragpkziu 
gggggbkgikfful ,gvagquoogvagbkg.uvzgbmugvibagkpgbmugzsouzj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gBmtuabua,grrjggr,g30j]

 kgRglkbgauugbmvbgbmugqricu gvl gbmugxkk gcrlx,gmugbmvbgragmvbu gvl gmu
bmvbgrag.uoknu ,gmvnugbmugklugvagfsimgzunuzuliugwvr gmrfgvagbmugkbmuz?
Ftgwzu uiuaakzgqva,gvl gftgasiiuaakzgamvoog.u,gauznu gqrbmgbmugavfu
iuzufkltgvl gabvbujggRpgftgas.yuibag kgfuglkgmvzf,g‘braglkgunr uliugkp
vltgxkk gvppuibrkl;gqmtgamkso gRgokkcgswklgrbgvagasim,gauurlxgrbgraglkb
rlgbmurzgwkquzgbkg kgrbgrpgbmutgqkso ?ggLkgklugpkookqagfugkzgk.utagft
ikffvl agswklgbmugviikslbgkpgvltgpzrul amrw,g.ubqrhbgmrfgvl gfu;gbmuzu
ivlg.uglkgiklbzvibrlxgkpgpzrul amrwgqmuzugbmuzugragakgorbbougzuovbrklgvl 
ikzzuawkl uliu:gftgkqlgmurxmbgmvagwsbgfugksbgkpgbmugpvfrorvzrbtgkpgvl 
rlbuoorxuliugqrbmgful;gbmuzugragbkkgxzuvbg rawvzrbtgvl g rawzkwkzbrkl
.ubqrhbgsajggBmutgpkookqgfugurbmuzgswklgbmugviikslbgkpg uiulitgvl 
isabkf;gkzgzvbmuzgftgpkzbslu,gbmvlgfu,gbkgrlizuvaugbmurzgkqljggVoogbmut
avtgbkgfugkzg kgpkzgfugrag.sbgksbqvz gwvrlb,gvwwuvzvliu,gbmurzgor.uzbt
.urlxgklgvoogwvzbagzuabzvrlu g.tgbmugxzuvbgwkquzgvl gvsbmkzrbtgRgmvnu
knuzgbmufjggRgauuglkbmrlxgv.ksbgfug.sbgqmvbgrag raauf.ou gvl g raxsrau j

BmugUfwuzkzgYsorvlg.urlxgklug vtgvwwovs u g.tgmragikszbruzagpkzgmraguhvib
ysabriu:g“Rgamkso g.ugwzks gkpgbmuaugwzvraua,”gavr gmu,g“ r gbmutgikfu
pzkfgwuzaklagbmvbg szabgikl uflgkzg ravwwzknugbmugiklbzvzt,grlgivaugR
amkso g kgrbj”ggVoogbmugzuvogv nvlbvxuagkpgwzrliuagvzugikffklgbkgbmuf
qrbmgfulgkpgfuvluzgikl rbrklg(‘bragpkzgbmugxk agbkgfkslbgqrlxu gmkzaua
vl gpuu gswklgvf.zkarv):gbmutgmvnuglkgkbmuzgaouuw,glkzgkbmuzgvwwubrbu
bmvlgqu;gbmugabuuogbmutgvzfgbmufauonuagqrbmvogragkpglkg.ubbuzgbufwuzgbmvl
bmvbgqugvoakgsau;gbmurzgizkqlaglurbmuzg upul gbmufgpzkfgbmugzvrlglkzgbmu
aslj

 rkioubrvl,gqmkgqkzugvgizkqlgakgpkzbslvbugvl gzunuzu ,gzuarxlu grbgbk
zubrzugbkgbmugpuorirbtgkpgvgwzrnvbugorpu;gvl gakfugbrfugvpbuzgbmu
luiuaarbtgkpgws.origvppvrzagzuesrzrlxgbmvbgmugamkso gzuvaasfugmragimvzxu,
mugfv ugvlaquzgbkgbmkaugqmkgivfugbkgikszbgmrfgbkgrb:g“Tksgqkso glkb
kppuz,”gavr gmu,g“bkgwuzasv ugfugbkgbmra,gmv gtksgauulgbmugprlugkz uzgkp
bmugbzuuagRgmvnugwovlbu grlgftgkzimvz ,gvl gbmugpvrzgfuoklagRgmvnugakql
rlgftgxvz ulj”

RlgVlvimvzara’gkwrlrkl,gbmugmvwwruabgabvbugkpgxknuzlfulbgqkso g.ugqmuzu,
voogkbmuzgbmrlxag.urlxguesvo,gwzuiu uliugamkso g.ugfuvaszu gksbg.tgbmu
nrzbsua,gvl gzuwsoauag.tgbmugnriuagkpgfulj

QmulgCrlxgWtzzmsagwzuwvzu gpkzgmraguhwu rbrklgrlbkgRbvot,gmragqrau
ikslauookzgItluva,gbkgfvcugmrfgaular.ougkpgbmugnvlrbtgkpgmragvf.rbrkl:
“Quoo,garz,”gavr gmu,g“bkgqmvbgul g kgtksgfvcugvoogbmragfrxmbt
wzuwvzvbrkl?”--“BkgfvcugftauopgfvabuzgkpgRbvot,”gzuworu gbmugcrlxj
“Vl gqmvbgvpbuzgbmvbggrag klu?”gavr gItluvajgg“RgqroogwvaagknuzgrlbkgXvso
vl gAwvrl,”gavr gbmugkbmuzjgg“Vl gqmvbgbmul?”--“Rgqroogbmulgxkgbkgas. su
Vpzriv;gvl govabot,gqmulgRgmvnug.zksxmbgbmugqmkougqkzo gbkgftgas.yuibrkl,
Rgqroogarbg kqlgvl gzuabgiklbulbgvbgftgkqlguvauj”

“PkzgXk gavcu,garz,”gzuworu gItluva,g“buoogfugqmvbgmrl uzagbmvbgtksgfvt
lkb,grpgtksgwouvau,g.uglkqgrlgbmugikl rbrklgtksgawuvcgkp?ggQmtg kgtksglkb
lkqgvbgbmragrlabvlbgaubbougtkszauopgrlgbmugabvbugtksgauufgbkgvrfgvb,gvl 
awvzugvoogbmugov.kszgvl gmvdvz gtksgrlbuzwkau?”

ggggggggg“Lrfrzsf,gesrvglklgikxlknrb,geshguaaubgmv.ul r
ggggggggggPrlra,gubgkflrlkgeskv gizuaivbgnuzvgnkoswbvaj”

ggggg[“Pkzakkbmg.uivsaugmug kuaglkbgclkqgqmvbgamkso g.ugbmugorfrbgkp
gggggviesrarbrkl,gvl gvobkxubmuzgmkqgpvzgzuvogwouvaszugamkso grlizuvauj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,gnjg1431]

Rgqroogiklios ugqrbmgvlgko gnuzariou,gbmvbgRgbmrlcgnuztgvwbgbkgbmu
wszwkau:

ggggggggggggggg“Fkzuagisresugasrgprlxslbgpkzbslvfj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Unuztgfvlgpzvfuagmragkqlgpkzbsluj”
gggggggggggggggg--IkzluorsagLuwka,gOrpugkpgVbbrisa]




IMVWBUZgHORRR

KPgASFWBSVZTgOVQA

Bmugqvtg.tgqmrimgkszgovqagvbbufwbgbkgzuxsovbugr ougvl gnvrlguhwulauagrl
fuvbgvl giokbmua,gauufagbkg.ugesrbugiklbzvztgbkgbmugul g uarxlu jggBmu
bzsugqvtgqkso g.ugbkg.uxubgrlgfulgvgiklbufwbgkpgarocagvl gxko ,gvagnvrl,
pzrnkoksa,gvl gsauouaa;gqmuzuvagqugvsxfulbgbkgbmufgbmugmklksza,gvl 
ulmvliugbmugnvosugkpgasimgbmrlxa,gqmrim,gaszu,gragvgnuztgrfwzkwuzgqvtgbk
izuvbugvg raxsabjggPkzgbkgulvibgbmvbglklug.sbgwzrliuagamvooguvbgbsz.kb,
amvoogquvzgnuonubgkzgxko goviu,gvl grlbuz ribgbmuaugbmrlxagbkgbmugwukwou,
qmvbgragrbg.sbgbkg.zrlxgbmufgrlbkgvgxzuvbuzguabuuf,gvl gbkgaubgunuztgklu
fkzugvxkxgbkguvbgvl gquvzgbmuf?ggOubgcrlxagouvnugkppgbmuaugularxlagkp
xzvl usz;gbmutgmvnugkbmuzagulksxmg.uar ua;gbmkauguhiuaauagvzugfkzu
uhisav.ougrlgvltgkbmuzgbmvlgvgwzrliujggQugfvtgouvzlg.tgbmuguhvfwougkp
aunuzvoglvbrklag.ubbuzgqvtagkpguhbuzrkzg rabrlibrklgkpgesvorbtg(qmrim,
bzsot,gRgikliurnugbkg.ugnuztgzuesrarbugrlgvgabvbu)gulksxm,gqrbmksb
pkabuzrlxgbkgbmragwszwkaugasimgikzzswbrklgvl gfvlrpuabgrliklnulruliuj
‘Bragabzvlxugmkqgas  ulotgvl gqrbmgmkqgfsimguvaugisabkfgrlgbmuau
rl rppuzulbgbmrlxaguabv.oramuagrbauopgvl g.uikfuagvsbmkzrbtjggQugmv 
aivziugqkzlgiokbmgvgtuvz,grlgikfworvliugqrbmgbmugikszb,gpkzgbmugfkszlrlx
kpgMulztgRRj,g.sbgbmvbgarocagquzugvozuv tgxzkqlgrlbkgasimgiklbufwbgqrbm
unuztgklu,gbmvbgvgfvlgakgiov gqvagwzuaulbotgiklios u gvgirbrdul:garoca
quzug rnr u g.ubqrhbgbmugwmtarirvlagvl gaszxukla,gvl gbmksxmgvoogkbmuz
wukwougvofkabgqulbgrlgbmugavfugmv.rb,gbmuzugqva,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,grlgklu
bmrlxgkzgkbmuz,gaspprirulbg rabrlibrklgkpgbmugaunuzvogikl rbrklagkpgfulj
Mkqgas  ulotg kgxzuvatgimvfkragvl gorlulg ks.oubag.uikfugbmugpvamrklgrl
kszgvzfrua,gqmroabgvoogluvbluaagvl gzrimluaagkpgmv.rbgpvoogrlbkgiklbufwb?
Oubgcrlxag.sbgouv gbmug vliugvl g.uxrlgbkgouvnugkppgbmraguhwulau,gvl grl
vgfklbmgbmug.sarluaagqroog.ug klugbmzksxmksbgbmugcrlx kf,gqrbmksbgu rib
kzgkz rlvliu;gqugamvoogvoogpkookqjggRbgamkso g.ugzvbmuzgwzkiovrfu ,gkl
bmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbglkgklugamkso gquvzgaivzoubgkzgxko afrbma’gqkzcg.sb
ikszbuavlagvl gbsf.ouzaj

Duousisag.tgbmugorcugrlnulbrklgzuiovrfu gbmugikzzswbu gfvlluzagkpgbmu
OkizrvlajggMragovqagquzu,gbmvbglkgpzuugqkfvlgamkso g.ugvookqu gvltgfkzu
bmvlgklugfvr gbkgpkookqgmuz,gslouaagamugqvag zslc:glkzgqvagbkgabrzgksbgkp
bmugirbtg.tglrxmb,gquvzgyuquoagkpgxko gv.ksbgmuz,gkzgxkgrlgvlguf.zkr uzu 
zk.u,gslouaagamugqvagvgwzkpuaau gvl gws.origwzkabrbsbu;gbmvb,g.zvnka
uhiuwbu ,glkgfvlgqvagbkgquvzgvgxko gzrlx,glkzg.ugauulgrlgklugkpgbmkau
uppufrlvbugzk.uagqknulgrlgbmugirbtgkpgFroubsajgg.tgqmrimgrlpvfksa
uhiuwbrklagmug raizuubotg rnuzbu gmragirbrdulagpzkfgaswuzposrbruagvl 
wuzlrirksagwouvaszua,gvl grbgqvagvgwzkyuibgkpgxzuvbgsbrorbtgbkgvbbzvib
bmulg.tgmklkszgvl gvf.rbrklgbkgbmurzg sbtgvl gk.u ruliuj

Kszgcrlxagivlg kgqmvbgbmutgwouvaugrlgasimguhbuzlvogzupkzfvbrkla;gbmurz
kqlgrliorlvbrklgabvl agrlgbmragivaugpkzgvgovq:

gggggggggg“Esriesr gwzrlirwuagpvirslb,gwzvuirwuzugnr ulbszj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgwzrliuagbmufauonuag k,gbmutgauufgbkgwzuaizr.uj”
gggggg--Esrlbroj,g uiovfj,g3j]

Qmvbunuzgrag klugvbgikszbgwvaauagpkzgvgzsougbmzksxmgbmugzuabgkpgPzvliuj
Oubgbmugikszbruzagpvoogksbgqrbmgbmuaugv.kfrlv.oug.zuuimua,gbmvbg raiknuz
akgfsimgkpgbmkaugwvzbagamkso g.ugikliuvou ;gbmuaugxzuvbg.uooru g ks.ouba,
bmvbgfvcugsagokkcgorcugRgclkqglkbgqmvb,gvl gvzugakgslprbgbkgv frbgkp
vzfa;gbmuaugoklxguppufrlvbugokicagkpgmvrz;gbmragpkkoramgisabkfgkpgcraarlx
qmvbgqugwzuaulbgbkgkszguesvoa,gvl gkszgmvl agrlgavosbrlxgbmuf,gvgiuzufklt
rlgpkzfuzgbrfuagklotg sugbkgwzrliuajggOubgbmufglkbgwuzfrbgbmvbgv
xulboufvlgamvoogvwwuvzgrlgwoviugkpgzuawuibgqrbmksbgmragaqkz ,gsl.sbbklu 
vl gslbzsaau ,gvagbmksxmgmugivfugpzkfgbmugmksaugkpgkppriu;gvl gbmvb,
iklbzvztgbkgbmugisabkfgkpgkszgpkzupvbmuzagvl gbmugwvzbrisovzgwzrnrouxugkp
bmuglk.ouagkpgbmragcrlx kf,gqugabvl gvgoklxgbrfug.vzugbkgbmufgrlgqmvb
woviugakunuz,gvl gbmugavfugbkgvgmsl zu gkbmuza,gakgfvltgbruziuoubagvl 
esvzbuoubagkpgcrlxagqugmvnugxkbglkqv vtagvl gkbmuzgorcugnrirksa
rllknvbrkla:gbmutgqroogauugbmufgvoogwzuaulbotgnvlramgvl gizru g kqlj
Bmuaugvzu,g‘bragbzsu,g.sbgaswuzprirvoguzzkza;g.sbgbmutgvzugkpgroogvsxszt,
vl gulksxmgbkgrlpkzfgsagbmvbgbmugqmkougpv.zrigragizvdtgvl gbkbbuzrlx,
qmulgqugauugbmugzksxmivabgkpgkszgqvooagbkgiouvnugvl gaworbj

WovbkgrlgmragOvqaguabuufaglkbmrlxgkpgfkzugwuabrpuzksagiklauesuliugbkgmra
irbtgbmvlgbkgxrnugtkslxgfulgbmugor.uzbtgkpgrlbzk sirlxgvltgimvlxugrl
bmurzgmv.rba,gxuabszua,g vliua,gaklxa,gvl guhuziraua,gpzkfgklugpkzfgbk
vlkbmuz;gamrpbrlxgpzkfgbmragbkgbmvb,gmslbrlxgvpbuzglknuobrua,gvl 
vwwovs rlxgbmugrlnulbkza;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagfvlluzagvzugikzzswbu gvl gbmu
ko grlabrbsbrklagikfugbkg.uglvsauvbu gvl g uawrau jggRlgvoogbmrlxa,
avnrlxgklotgrlgbmkaugbmvbgvzugunro,gvgimvlxugragbkg.ugpuvzu ;gunulgbmu
imvlxugkpgauvakla,gqrl a,gnrvl a,gvl gmsfkszajggVl glkgovqagvzugrlgbmurz
bzsugizu rb,g.sbgasimgbkgqmrimgXk gmvagxrnulgakgoklxgvgiklbrlsvliugbmvb
lkgklugclkqagbmurzg.uxrllrlx,gkzgbmvbgbmuzugunuzgqvagvltgkbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHORN

KPgAOUUW

Zuvaklg rzuibagbmvbgqugamkso gvoqvtagxkgbmugavfugqvt,g.sbglkbgvoqvtagvb
bmugavfugwviujggVl ,giklauesulbot,gbmksxmgvgqraugfvlgksxmbglkbgakgfsimgbk
xrnugbmugzurlagbkgmsfvlgwvaarklagvagbkgoubgmrfg unrvbugpzkfgbmugzrxmb
wvbm,gmugfvt,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gqrbmksbgwzuys riugbkgmrag sbt,gouvnugrbgbk
bmufgbkgmvabulgkzgbkgaoviculgmragawuu ,gvl glkbgprhgmrfauopgorcugv
fkbrklouaagvl grlaular.ougIkokaasajggIkso gnrzbsugrbauopgwsbgklgpouamgvl 
.okk ,gRg.uorunugbmugwsoaugqkso g.uvbgpvabuzgxkrlxgklgbkgvaavsobgbmvlgrl
xkrlxgbkg rlluz:gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmuzugragvgluiuaarbtgamugamkso gmuvbgvl 
.ugfknu gswklgbmragviikslbjggRgmvnugbvculglkbriu,gvagkpgvlguhbzvkz rlvzt
bmrlx,gkpgakfugxzuvbgful,gqmkgrlgbmugmrxmuabgulbuzwzrauagvl gfkab
rfwkzbvlbgvppvrzagmvnugcuwbgbmufauonuagrlgakgaubbou gvl gauzulugvgivof,
vaglkbgvbgvoogbkg.zuvcgbmurzgaouuwjggVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gklgbmug vt
vaarxlu gpkzgbmvbgpszrksag.vbboug.ubqrhbgmrfgvl g vzrsa,gaouwbgak
wzkpksl otgvl gakgoklxgrlgbmugfkzlrlx,gbmvbgWvzfulrkgqvagpkziu gbkgulbuz
mragimvf.uz,gvl gikfrlxgbkgmrag.u ar u,gbkgivoogmrfgaunuzvogbrfuag.tgmra
lvfu,gbmugbrfugbkgxkgbkgprxmbgikfwuoorlxgmrfgakgbkg kjggBmugUfwuzkzgKbmk,
mvnrlxgwsbgklgvgzuakosbrklgbkgcroogmrfauopgbmvbglrxmb,gvpbuzgmvnrlx
aubbou gmrag kfuabrigvppvrza,g rnr u gmragfklutgvfklxabgmragauznvlba,gvl 
aubgvgxkk gu xugswklgvgaqkz gmugmv gfv ugimkriugkpgpkzgbmugwszwkau,gvl 
lkqgabvtrlxgklotgbkg.ugavbrapru gqmubmuzgvoogmragpzrul agmv gzubrzu grl
avpubt,gmugpuoogrlbkgakgaksl gvgaouuwgbmvbgbmugxulboufulgkpgmragimvf.uz
muvz gmrfgalkzujggBmug uvbmgkpgbmragufwuzkzgmvagrlgrbgirzisfabvliua
wvzvoouorlxgbmvbgkpgbmugxzuvbgIvbk,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbmragysabgzuovbu 
pkzgIvbkg.urlxgzuv tgbkg uawvbimgmrfauop,gqmroabgmugklotgabvtu gmragmvl 
rlguhwuibvbrklgkpgbmugzubszlgkpgvgfuaaulxuzgmugmv gaulbgbkg.zrlxgmrfgluqa
qmubmuzgbmugaulvbkzagmugmv gaulbgvqvtgquzugwsbgksbgpzkfgbmugWkzbgkp
Sbriv,gmugpuoogrlbkgakgaksl gvgaouuw,gbmvbgbmutgmuvz gmrfgalkzugrlgbmu
luhbgzkkf;gvl gbmugfvl,gqmkfgmugmv gaulbgbkgbmugwkzb,gmvnrlxgvqvculu gmrf
bkgoubgmrfgclkqgbmvbgbmugbufwuabsksagquvbmuzgmv gmrl uzu gbmugaulvbkza
pzkfgwsbbrlxgbkgauv,gmug uawvbimu gvqvtgvlkbmuzgfuaaulxuz,gvl gikfwkarlx
vxvrlgmrfauopgrlgbmug.u ,gaubbou gbkgaouuw,gvl gaouwbgbroog.tgbmugzubszl
kpgbmugovabgfuaaulxuzgmugmv giuzbvrlgrlbuoorxuliugbmutgquzugxklujggQugfvt
muzugpszbmuzgikfwvzugmrfgqrbmgVouhvl uzgrlgbmugxzuvbgvl g vlxuzksagabkzf
bmvbgbmzuvbulu gmrfg.tgbmugau rbrklgkpgbmugbzr.slugFubuoosa,gqmk,
vbbufwbrlxgbkgws.oramgvg uizuugpkzgbmugivoorlxgrlgkpgWkfwutgqrbmgmragvzft
rlbkgbmugirbtgvbgbmugbrfugkpgIvbrorlu’agiklawrzvit,gqvagklotgvl gbmvb
abksbotgkwwkau g.tgIvbk,gakgbmvbgnuztgamvzwgovlxsvxugvl g.rbbuzgfulviua
wvaau g.ubqrhbgbmufgrlgbmugaulvbugv.ksbgbmvbgvppvrz;g.sbgrbgqvagbmugluhb
 vt,grlgbmugpkzulkkl,gbmvbgbmugiklbzknuzatgqvagbkg.ug uir u ,gqmuzu
Fubuoosa,g.uar uagbmugpvnkszgkpgbmugwukwougvl gkpgIvuavz--vbgbmvbgbrfugkp
Wkfwut’agpvibrkl--qvagbkgvwwuvzgviikfwvlru gqrbmgvgzv..ougkpgaovnuagvl 
xov rvbkza;gvl gIvbkgklotgpkzbrpru gqrbmgmragkqlgikszvxugvl giklabvlit;
akgbmvbgmragzuovbrkla,g kfuabria,gvl gfvltgnrzbsksagwukwougkpgmragpzrul a
quzugrlgxzuvbgvwwzumularklagpkzgmrf;gvl gbkgbmvbg uxzuu,gbmvbgakfugbmuzu
quzugqmkgwvaau gknuzgbmugqmkouglrxmbgqrbmksbgaouuw,guvbrlx,gkzg zrlcrlx,
pkzgbmug vlxuzgbmutgavqgmrfgzsllrlxgrlbk;gmragqrpugvl garabuzag r 
lkbmrlxg.sbgquuwgvl gbkzfulbgbmufauonuagrlgmragmksau;gqmuzuva,gmu,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gikfpkzbu gunuztgklu,gvl gvpbuzgmvnrlxgaswwu gvpbuzgmragsasvo
fvlluz,gqulbgbkg.u ,gvl gaouwbgwzkpksl otgbroogfkzlrlx,gqmulgklugkpgmra
puookq-bzr.sluagzksau gmrfgbkgxkgbkgbmugulikslbuzjggBmugclkqou xugqugmvnu
kpgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgbmragfvl’agikszvxug.tgbmugzuabgkpgmragorpu,gfvt
qvzzvlbgsagiuzbvrlotgbkgys xugbmvbgmragrl rppuzuliugwzkiuu u gpzkfgvgakso
akgfsimguounvbu gv.knugasimgviir ulba,gbmvbgmug ra vrlu gbkgoubgrbgbvcu
vltgfkzugmko gkpgmragpvlitgbmvlgvltgkz rlvztgrlir ulbj

RlgbmuglvnvogulxvxufulbgbmvbgVsxsabsagqklgkpgAuhbsagWkfwursagrlgArirot,
ysabgvagbmutgquzugbkg.uxrlgbmugprxmb,gmugqvagakgpvabgvaouuwgbmvbgmra
pzrul agquzugikfwuoou gbkgqvcugmrfgbkgxrnugbmugarxlvogkpg.vbbou:gvl gbmra
qvagrbgbmvbgxvnugFvzcgVlbkltgvpbuzqvz agkiivarklgbkgzuwzkvimgmrfgbmvbgmu
mv glkbgbmugikszvxugakgfsimgvagqrbmgkwulgutuagbkg.umko gbmugkz uzgkpgmra
kqlgaesv zkla,gvl glkbgbkgmvnug vzu gbkgwzuaulbgmrfauopg.upkzugbmu
ako ruza,gbroogprzabgVxzrwwvgmv g.zksxmbgmrfgluqagkpgbmugnribkzt
k.bvrlu jgg.sbgvagbkgbmugtkslxgFvzrsa,gqmkg r gfsimgqkzaug(pkzgbmug vtgkp
mragovabg.vbbougvxvrlabgAtoov,gvpbuzgmugmv gfvzamvoou gmragvzftgvl gxrnul
bmugqkz gvl garxlvogkpg.vbbou,gmugovr gmrfg kqlgsl uzgbmugamv ugkpgvgbzuu
bkgzuwkaugmrfauop,gvl gpuoogakgpvabgvaouuwgbmvbgbmugzksbgvl gporxmbgkp
mragfulgikso gmvz otgqvculgmrf,gmugmvnrlxgauulglkbmrlxgkpgbmugprxmb),gmu
ragavr gbkgmvnug.uulgvbgbmvbgbrfugakguhbzufuotgawulbgvl gqkzlgksbgqrbm
ov.kszgvl gqvlbgkpgaouuw,gbmvbglvbszugikso gmko gksbglkgoklxuzjggLkq,
swklgqmvbgmvag.uulgavr ,gbmugwmtarirvlagfvtg ubuzfrlugqmubmuzgaouuwg.ugak
luiuaavztgbmvbgkszgornuag uwul gswklgrb:gpkzgqugzuv gbmvbgCrlxgWuzausagkp
Fviu kl,g.urlxgwzrakluzgvbgZkfu,gqvagcroou g.tg.urlxgcuwbgpzkfgaouuw;g.sb
Worltgrlabvliuagasimgvagmvnugornu goklxgqrbmksbgaouuwjggMuzk kbsagawuvca
kpglvbrklagqmuzugbmugfulgaouuwgvl gqvcug.tgmvop-tuvza,gvl gbmutgqmkgqzrbu
bmugorpugkpgbmugavxugUwrfulr uagvpprzfgbmvbgmugaouwbgaunul-vl -prpbt
tuvzagbkxubmuzj




IMVWBUZgHON

KPgBMUg.VBBOUgKPg ZUSH

ggggg[ uiuf.uzg19,g1562,grlgqmrimgbmugIvbmkoria,gsl uzgbmugikffvl gkpgbmu
ggggg sig ugXsraugvl gbmugIklabv.oug ugFklbfkzulir,g upuvbu gbmu
gggggWzkbuabvlba,gikffvl u g.tgbmugWzrliug ugIkl ujggAuugArafkl r,gMrabj
ggggg uagPzvlivra,gnkojgghnrrrj,gwjg354j]

Kszg.vbbougkpg zushgragzufvzcv.ougpkzgaunuzvoguhbzvkz rlvztgrlir ulba;
.sbgasimgvagmvnuglkgxzuvbgcrl luaagpkzgFjg ugXsrau,glkzgfsimgpvnkszgmra
zuwsbvbrkl,gvzugqroorlxgbkgmvnugmrfgbmksxmbgbkg.ovfu,gvl gbmvbgmragfvcrlx
vgmvobgvl g uovtrlxgbrfugqrbmgbmugpkziuagmugikffvl u ,gqmroabgbmu
Iklabv.ou,gqmkgqvagxuluzvogkpgbmugvzft,gqvagzvicu gbmzksxmgvl gbmzksxm
qrbmgbmuguluft’agvzbroouzt,gmrag.vbbvorklgzksbu ,gvl gmrfauopgbvcul
wzrakluz,graglkbgbkg.uguhisau ;gvl gbmvbgmugmv gfsimg.ubbuzgmvnugzslgbmu
mvdvz gkpgimvzxrlxgbmuguluftgrlgpovlc,gbmvlgabvtrlxgpkzgbmugv nvlbvxugkp
pvoorlxgrlgswklgbmugzuvz,gbkgasppuzgakgxzuvbgvl gakgrfwkzbvlbgvgokaaj
.sb,g.uar uagqmvbgbmugunulbg ufklabzvbu ,gmugqmkgqroogiklar uzgrbgqrbmksb
wvaarklgkzgwzuys riugqrooguvarotg.ugrl siu gbkgiklpuaagbmvbgbmugvrfgvl 
 uarxl,glkbgkpgvgivwbvrlgklot,g.sbgkpgunuztgwzrnvbugako ruz,gksxmbgbk
zuxvz gbmugnribkztgrlgxuluzvo,gvl gbmvbglkgwvzbrisovzgkiiszzuliua,gmkq
luvzotgakunuzgbmutgfvtgikliuzlgmragkqlgrlbuzuab,gamkso g rnuzbgmrfgpzkf
bmvbgwszasrbjggWmrokwkuful,ggrlgvlgulikslbuzgqrbmgFvimvlr va,gmvnrlxgaulb
.upkzugvgxkk gabzklxgwvzbtgkpgmragvzimuzagvl gaorlxuzagbkg.uxrlgbmu
acrzfram,gvl gbmuaug.urlxgzksbu gvl gmkbotgwszasu g.tgbmuguluft,gqmk,
wsamrlxgklgbmugpkzbslugkpgbmurzgvzfa,gvl grlgbmvbgwszasrbgwvaarlxg.tgbmu
.vbbvorklgqmuzugWmrokwkufulgqva,gbmksxmgmragako ruzagquzugrfwvbrulbgbk
pvoogkl,gmug r glkbgbmrlcgprbgbkgabrzgpzkfgmragwkabglkzgbkgwzuaulb
mrfauopgbkgbmuguluftgbkgzuorunugmragful,g.sbgmvnrlxgasppuzu gbmuaugbkg.u
imvau gvl gisbgrlgwruiuag.upkzugmragpviu,gimvzxu grlgswklgbmuguluft’a
pkkbgqmulgmugavqgbmufgoupbgslwzkbuibu g.tgbmugmkzau,gvl glkbqrbmabvl rlx
bmvbgbmutgquzugOviu vufklrvla,gtubgbvcrlxgbmufgrlgbmuglric,gqmulgbmrlcrlx
bmufauonuagauiszugkpgbmugnribkzt,gbmutg.uxvlgbkg rakz uzgbmurzgzvlca;gmu
 r gbmrag.sarluaagqrbmgxzuvbgpvirorbt,gvl gbmulgwsbgmrfauopgrlgwszasrbgkp
Fvimvlr vajggQmrimgivaugragnuztgorcugbmvbgkpgFklaruszg ugXsrauj

Rlgbmvbg.okk tg.vbboug.ubqrhbgVxuarovsagvl gbmug.kukbrvla,gqmrim
Hulkwmkl,gqmkgqvagwzuaulbgvbgrb,gzuwkzbagbkg.ugbmugamvzwuabgbmvbgmugmv 
unuzgauul,gVxuarovsagqvrnu gbmugv nvlbvxugbmvbgpkzbslugwzuaulbu gmrf,gbk
oubgbmug.kukbrvlg.vbbvorklagwvaag.tgvl gbmulgbkgimvzxugbmufgrlgbmugzuvz,
mkqgiuzbvrlgakunuzgmugfrxmbgfvcugmrfauopgkpgbmugnribkzt,gys xrlxgrbgqkso 
zvbmuzg.ugvlguppuibgkpgikl sibgbmvlgnvoksz,gbkgwzkiuu gbmvbgqvt;gvl 
bmuzupkzu,gbkgamkqgmragwzkquaa,gzvbmuzgimkaugqrbmgvgfvznuooksagvz kszgkp
ikszvxugbkgimvzxugbmufgrlgbmugpzklb;g.sbgmugqvagquoog.uvbulgvl gquoo
qksl u gpkzgmragwvrla,gvl giklabzvrlu gvbgovabgbkg raulxvxugmrfauop,gvl 
bkgbvcugbmugikszaugmugmv gvbgprzabgluxouibu ;gkwulrlxgmrag.vbbvorklgbk
xrnugqvtgbkgbmragbkzzulbgkpg.kukbrvla,gvl gbmutg.urlxgwvaau g.t,gbvcrlx
lkbriugbmvbgbmutgfvzimu grlg rakz uz,gorcugfulgqmkgbmksxmbgbmufauonuagksb
kpg vlxuz,gmugwszasu gvl gimvzxu gbmufgrlgpovlc;gtubgikso glkbgakgwzunvro
vagbkg.zrlxgrbgbkgakgxuluzvogvgzksbg.sbgbmvbgbmutgouraszuotgzubzuvbu ,
abroogpvirlxgv.ksbgswklgmrfgbroogbmutgmv gzubrzu gbkgavpubtj




IMVWBUZgHONR

KPgLVFUA

Qmvbgnvzrubtgkpgmuz.agakunuzgvzugamspu gbkxubmuzgrlgbmug ram,gtubgbmu
qmkougfvaagragaqvookqu gswgsl uzgkluglvfugkpgvgavooubjggRlgorcugfvlluz,
sl uzgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpglvfua,gRgqroogfvcugvgmk xu-wk xugkpg rnuza
vzbriouaj

Unuztglvbrklgmvagiuzbvrlglvfua,gbmvb,gRgclkqglkbgqmt,gvzugbvculgrlglk
xkk gaulau,gvagqrbmgsa,gYkml,gQroorvf,g.ulu ribjggRlgbmugxuluvokxtgkp
wzrliua,gvoak,gbmuzugauufgbkg.ugiuzbvrlglvfuagpvbvootgvppuibu ,gvagbmu
WbkoufruagkpgUxtwb,gbmugMulzruagrlgUlxovl ,gbmugImvzouauagrlgPzvliu,gbmu
.vo qrlagrlgPovl uza,gvl gbmugQroorvfagkpgkszgvlirulbgVesrbvrlu,gpzkf
qmuliu,g‘bragavr ,gbmuglvfugkpgXstullugmvagrbag uzrnvbrkl;gqmrimgqkso 
auufgpvzgpubimu gquzugbmuzuglkbgvagizs ug uzrnvbrklagrlgWovbkgmrfauopj

Rbuf,g‘bragvgpzrnkoksagbmrlxgrlgrbauop,g.sbglunuzbmuouaagqkzbmtgbkg.u
zuikz u gpkzgbmugabzvlxuluaagkpgrb,gbmvbgragqzrbbulg.tgvlgutuqrbluaa,
bmvbgMulzt,g scugkpgLkzfvl t,gaklgkpgMulztgRRj,gcrlxgkpgUlxovl ,gfvcrlxgv
xzuvbgpuvabgrlgPzvliu,gbmugiklikszaugkpglk.rorbtgvl gxulbztgqvagakgxzuvb,
bmvbg.urlx,gpkzgawkzb’agavcu,g rnr u grlbkgbzkkwa,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
lvfua,grlgbmugprzabgbzkkw,gqmrimgiklarabu gkpgQroorvfa,gbmuzugquzugpksl 
vlgmsl zu gvl gbulgclrxmbagarbbrlxgvbgbmugbv.ougkpgbmvbglvfu,gqrbmksb
zuicklrlxgbmugkz rlvztgxulboufulgvl gauznvlbaj

Rbgragvagwouvavlbgbkg rabrlxsramgbmugbv.ouag.tgbmuglvfuagkpgbmugxsuabagva
rbgqvagrlgbmugUfwuzkzgXubvgbkg rabrlxsramgbmugaunuzvogikszauagkpgmragfuvb
.tgbmugprzabgoubbuzagkpgbmugfuvbagbmufauonua;gakgbmvbgbmkaugbmvbg.uxvl
qrbmg.gquzugauznu gswgbkxubmuz,gvag.zvql,g.uup,g.zuvf,g.sabvz a,
.uiiv-prika;gvl gakgkpgbmugkbmuzajggRbuf,gbmuzugragvgavtrlxgbmvbgrbgragv
xkk gbmrlxgbkgmvnugvgxkk glvfu,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gizu rbgvl gvgxkk gzuwsbu;
.sbg.uar uagbmra,grbgragzuvootgiklnulrulbgbkgmvnugvgquoo-aksl rlxglvfu,
asimgvagraguvatgkpgwzklslirvbrklgvl guvatgbkg.ugzufuf.uzu ,g.tgzuvakl
bmvbgcrlxagvl gkbmuzgxzuvbgwuzaklag kg.tgbmvbgfuvlagbmugfkzuguvarotgclkq
vl gbmugfkzugmvz otgpkzxubgsa;gvl grl uu gkpgkszgkqlgauznvlbagqugfkzu
pzuesulbotgivoogvl gufwoktgbmkaugqmkauglvfuagvzugfkabgzuv tgswklgbmu
bklxsujggRgftauopgmvnugauulgMulztgRRj,gqmulgmugikso glkbgpkzgmragmuvzb
mrbgkpgvgxulboufvl’aglvfugkpgkszgikslbztgkpgXvaiklt,gvl gfkzuknuzgqva
pvrlgbkgivoogklugkpgbmugesuul’agfvr agkpgmklkszg.tgbmugxuluzvoglvfugkp
muzgzviu,gmuzgkqlgpvfrotglvfug.urlxgakg rpprisobgbkgwzklksliugkz
zufuf.uz;gvl gAkizvbuagbmrlcagrbgqkzbmtgvgpvbmuz’agivzugbkgxrnugprlu
lvfuagbkgmragimro zulj

Rbuf,g‘bragavr gbmvbgbmugpksl vbrklgkpgLkbzug vfugovgXzvl ugvbgWkrbruza
bkkcgrbagkzrxrlvogpzkfgmuliugbmvbgvg u.vsimu gtkslxgpuookqgpkzfuzot
ornrlxgrlgbmvbgwoviu,gmvnrlxgxkbgbkgmrfgvgqulim,gvl ,gvbgmuzgprzabgikfrlx
rl,gvacrlxgmuzglvfu,gvl g.urlxgvlaquzu gbmvbgrbgqvagFvzt,gmugpuobgmrfauop
akgas  ulotgwruziu gbmzksxmgqrbmgbmugvqugkpgzuorxrklgvl gbmugzunuzuliugbk
bmvbgavizu glvfugkpgbmug.ouaau gNrzxrl,gbmvbgmuglkbgklotgrffu rvbuotgaulb
bmugxrzogvqvt,g.sbg.uivfugvgzupkzfu gfvlgvl gakgiklbrlsu gbmugzufvrl uz
kpgmragorpu;gvl gbmvb,grlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmragfrzviou,gbmuzugqva
uzuibu gswklgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmragtkslxgfvl’agmksaugabkk ,gprzabgvgimvwuo
 u rivbu gbkgkszgOv tgvl gvpbuzqvz agbmugimszimgbmvbgquglkqgauugabvl rlx
bmuzujggBmragnkivogvl gvszrisovzgzuwzkkpgqzksxmbgswklgbmugiklairuliu,gvl 
bmvbgzrxmbgrlbkgbmugakso;gbmragbmvbgpkookqa,grlarlsvbu grbauopgfuzuotg.t
bmugaulauajggWtbmvxkzvag.urlxgrlgikfwvltgqrbmgakfugqro gtkslxgpuookqa,
vl gwuziurnrlxgbmvb,gmuvbu gqrbmgbmugpuvab,gbmutgikfwokbu gbkgxkgnrkovbu
vlgmkluabgmksau,gikffvl u gbmugarlxrlxgqulimgbkgvobuzgmuzgqvlbklgvrza;
vl g.tgvgakoufl,gxzvnu,gvl gawkl vrigfsari,gxulbotgulimvlbu gvl govr 
vaouuwgbmurzgvz kszj

Rbuf,gqrooglkbgwkabuzrbtgavtgbmvbgkszgfk uzlgzupkzfvbrklgmvag.uul
qkl uzpsootg uorivbugvl guhvib,grlgmvnrlxglkbgklotgikf.vbu guzzkzagvl 
nriua,gvl gproou gbmugqkzo gqrbmg unkbrkl,gmsfrorbt,gk.u ruliu,gwuviu,
vl gvoogakzbagkpgnrzbsu;g.sbgrlgmvnrlxgwzkiuu u gakgpvzgvagbkgesvzzuo
qrbmgkszgvlirulbg.vwbrafvoglvfuagkpgImvzoua,gOksra,gPzvlira,gbkgproogbmu
qkzo gqrbmgFubmsauovma,gUducruoa,gvl gFvovimra,glvfuagkpgvgfkzugawrzrbsvo
aksl ?ggVgxulboufvl,gvglurxm.kszgkpgfrlu,gvgxzuvbgv frzuzgkpgvlbresrbt,
vl gqmkgqvagvoqvtaguhbkoorlxgbmuguhiuoouliuagkpgpkzfuzgbrfuagrl
ikfwvzraklgqrbmgbmragwzuaulbgvxugkpgksza,g r glkb,gvfklxabgbmugzuab,
pkzxubgbkg quoogswklgbmugokpbtgvl gfvxlrpriulbgaksl gkpgbmugxulboufvl’a
lvfuagkpgbmkaug vta,g klgXzsfu vl,gEsu zuxvl,gVxuarovl,gqmrim,g.sbgbk
muvzglvfu gmugikliurnu gbkg ulkbugkbmuzgcrl gkpgfulgbmvlgWruzzu,gXsrookb,
vl gFrimuoj

Rbuf,gRgvfgfrxmbrotgwouvau gqrbmgYviesuagVftkbgpkzgouvnrlx,gbmzksxmksbgv
qmkougPzulimgkzvbrkl,gbmugOvbrlglvfuagulbrzu,gqrbmksbgnvztrlxgvl 
xvz.orlxgbmufgbkgxrnugbmufgvgPzulimgiv uliujggRbgauufu gvgorbbougmvzam
vl gzksxmgvbgprzab;g.sbgvozuv tgisabkf,g.tgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgmragWosbvzim,
mvagknuzikfugbmvbglknuobtjggRgmvnugkpbulgqramu gbmvbgasimgvagqzrbu
mrabkzruagrlgOvbrlgqkso gouvnugkszglvfuagvagbmutgprl gbmufgvl gvagbmut
vzu;gpkzgrlgfvcrlxgNvs ufklbgrlbkgNvooufklbvlsa,gvl gfubvfkzwmkarlxglvfua
bkgfvcugbmufgasrbg.ubbuzgqrbmgbmugXzuucgkzgOvbrl,gqugclkqglkbgqmuzugqu
vzu,gvl gqrbmgbmugwuzaklagkpgbmugfulgokaugbmug.uluprbgkpgbmugabkztj

Bkgiklios u,g‘bragvgaiszntgisabkfgvl gkpgnuztgroogiklauesuliugbmvbgqu
mvnugrlgkszgcrlx kfgkpgPzvliugbkgivoogunuztgklug.tgbmuglvfugkpgmragfvlkz
kzgaurxluszt;g‘bragbmugbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gbmvbgbmugfkabgwzuys riuagvl 
iklpksl agpvfroruagvl g uaiulbajggVgtkslxuzg.zkbmuzgkpgvgxkk gpvfrot,
mvnrlxgvgfvlkzgoupbgmrfg.tgmragpvbmuz,g.tgbmuglvfugkpgqmrimgmugmvag.uul
clkqlgvl gmklkszu ,givllkbgmvl akfuotgouvnugrb;gbulgtuvzagvpbuzgmra
 uiuvaugrbgpvooagrlbkgbmugmvl gkpgvgabzvlxuz,gqmkg kuagbmugavfu:g kg.sb
ys xugqmuzuv.ksbagqugamvoog.ugikliuzlrlxgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmuaugfuljggQu
luu gokkcglkgpszbmuzgpkzguhvfwouagbmvlgkszgkqlgzktvogpvfrot,gqmuzugunuzt
wvzbrbrklgizuvbuagvgluqgaszlvfu,gqmroab,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbmugkzrxrlvogkp
bmugpvfrotgragbkbvootgokabjggBmuzugragakgxzuvbgor.uzbtgbvculgrlgbmuau
fsbvbrkla,gbmvbgRgmvnuglkbgrlgftgbrfugauulgvltgklugv nvliu g.tgpkzbslugbk
vltguhbzvkz rlvztgikl rbrklgqmkgmvaglkbgwzuaulbotgmv gxuluvokxrivogbrboua
v  u gbkgmrf,gluqgvl gslclkqlgbkgmragpvbmuz,gvl gqmkgmvaglkbg.uul
rlkisovbu grlbkgakfugroosabzrksagabufg.tgxkk gosic;gvl gbmugk.aiszuab
pvfroruagvzugbmugfkabgvwbgpkzgpvoarprivbrkljggMkqgfvltgxulboufulgmvnugqu
rlgPzvliugqmkg.tgbmurzgkqlgviikslbgvzugkpgzktvoguhbzvibrkl?gfkzu,gR
bmrlc,gbmvlgqmkgqroogiklpuaagbmutgvzuglkbjggQvagrbglkbgvgwouvavlbgwvaavxu
kpgvgpzrul gkpgfrlu?ggBmuzugquzu,gaunuzvogxulboufulgvaauf.ou gbkxubmuz
v.ksbgbmug rawsbugkpgklugaurxluszgqrbmgvlkbmuz;gqmrimgkbmuzgmv ,grl
bzsbm,gakfugwzuufrluliugkpgbrbouagvl gvoorvliuagv.knugbmugkz rlvzt
xulbztjggSwklgbmug u.vbugkpgbmragwzuzkxvbrnu,gunuztgklu,gbkgfvcugmrfauop
uesvogbkgmrf,gvoouxu ,gbmragkluguhbzvibrkl,gbmvbgvlkbmuz;gbmra,gbmugluvz
zuauf.ovliugkpglvfu,gbmvb,gkpgvzfa;gvlkbmuz,gvlgko gqkzf-uvbulgwvbulb;
bmugnuztgouvabgkpgbmufgqvagxzuvb-xzvl imro gbkgakfugpkzurxlgcrlxjggQmul
bmutgivfugbkgarbg kql,gbkg rlluz,gftgpzrul ,grlabuv gkpgbvcrlxgmragwoviu
vfklxabgbmuf,gzubrzrlxgqrbmgfkabgwzkpksl giklxua,gulbzuvbu gbmugikfwvlt
bkguhisaugmrfgpkzgmvnrlxgmrbmuzbkgornu gqrbmgbmufgvbgbmugavsitgzvbugkpgv
ikfwvlrkl;g.sbg.urlxglkqg.ubbuzgrlpkzfu gkpgbmurzgesvorbt,gmugqkso g.uxrl
bkgwvtgbmufgbmugzuawuibg sugbkgbmurzg.rzbmgvl gxzvl usz,gvl gbmvbgrb
qkso groog.uikfugmrfgbkgarbg kqlgvfklxgakgfvltgwzrliua--ul rlxgbmragpvziu
qrbmgvgbmksavl gzuwzkvimua:g“Oubgsa,grlgXk ’aglvfu,gavbraptgkszauonua
qrbmgqmvbgkszgpvbmuzagquzugiklbulbu gqrbm,gqrbmgqmvbgqugvzujggQugvzu
xzuvbgulksxm,grpgqugzrxmbotgsl uzabvl gmkqgbkgfvrlbvrlgrbjggOubgsaglkb
 rakqlgbmugpkzbslugvl gikl rbrklgkpgkszgvliuabkza,gvl goubgsagovtgvar u
bmuaugzr risoksagwzubuliua,gbmvbgivlglunuzg.ugqvlbrlxgbkgvltgklugbmvbgmva
bmugrfws uliugbkgvoouxugbmufj”

VzfagmvnuglkgfkzugauiszrbtgbmvlgaszlvfuajggRg.uvzgvdszugwkq uzu gqrbm
bzupkroagkz,gqrbmgvgorkl’agwvqgkpgbmugavfugvzfu gxsouagrlgpuaaujggQmvb
wzrnrouxugmvagbmragbkgiklbrlsugwvzbrisovzotgrlgftgmksau?ggVgakl-rl-ovq
qroogbzvlawkzbgrbgrlbkgvlkbmuzgpvfrot,gkzgakfugwvobztgwszimvauzgqroogfvcu
bmufgmragprzabgvzfajggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgqmuzurlgbmuzugragfkzugimvlxugvl 
iklpsarklj

.sbgbmragiklar uzvbrklgouv agfu,gwuzpkziu,grlbkgvlkbmuzgas.yuibjggOubgsa
wztgvgorbbouglvzzkqotgrlbk,gvl ,grlgXk ’aglvfu,guhvfrlugswklgqmvb
pksl vbrklgquguzuibgbmragxokztgvl gzuwsbvbrklgpkzgqmrimgbmugqkzo gra
bszlu gbkwat-bsznt:gqmuzurlg kgqugwoviugbmragzulkqlgbmvbgqugmslbgvpbuz
qrbmgakgfsimgwvrla?ggRbgra,grlgbmugul ,gWubuzgkzgQroorvfgbmvbgivzzruagrb,
bvcuagrbgrlbkgmragwkaauaarkl,gvl gqmkfgrbgklotgikliuzlajggKgqmvbgv
nvorvlbgpvisobtgragmkwu,gbmvbgrlgvgfkzbvogas.yuib,gvl grlgvgfkfulb,gfvcua
lkbmrlxgkpgsaszwrlxgrlprlrbt,grffularbt,gubuzlrbt,gvl gkpgaswwotrlxgrba
fvabuz’agrl rxuliu,gvbgrbagwouvaszu,gqrbmgvoogbmrlxagmugivlgrfvxrlugkz
 uarzu!ggLvbszugmvagxrnulgsagbmragwvaarklgpkzgvgwzubbtgbktgbkgwovt
qrbmvojggVl gbmragWubuzgkzgQroorvf,gqmvbgragrbg.sbgvgaksl ,gqmulgvoogra
 klu?gkzgbmzuugkzgpkszg vamuagqrbmgvgwul,gakguvatgbkg.ugnvzru gbmvbgR
qkso gpvrlgclkqgbkgqmkfgragbkg.ugvbbzr.sbu gbmugxokztgkpgakgfvlt
nribkzrua,gbkgXsuaesrl,gbkgXouaesrl,gkzgbkgXsuvesrl?ggvl gtubgbmuzugqkso 
.ugakfubmrlxgkpgxzuvbuzgfkfulbgrlgbmugivaugbmvlgrlgOsirvl,gbmvbgArxfv
amkso gauznugBvsgqrbmgvgwzkiuaa;gpkz

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lklgounrvgvsbgos rizvgwubslbsz
ggggggggggggggggggggWzvufrv;”

ggggg[“Bmutgvrfgvbglkgaorxmbgkzgykisovzgzuqvz aj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg764j]

bmugimvaugragbmuzugrlgnuztgxkk guvzluab:gbmugesuabrklgra,gqmrimgkpgbmuau
oubbuzagragbkg.ugzuqvz u gpkzgakgfvltgaruxua,g.vbboua,gqksl a,
rfwzraklfulba,gvl gauznriuag klugbkgbmugizkqlgkpgPzvliug.tgbmragpvfksa
iklabv.ou?ggLrimkovag ulrakb--[Wvrlbuzgvl gwkub,g.kzlgvbgOugFvla,1515j]--
lunuzgikliuzlu gmrfauopgpszbmuzgbmvlgbmugoubbuzagkpgmraglvfu,gkpgqmrimgmu
mvagvobuzu gbmugqmkougiklbuhbszugbkg.sro gswg.tgvlvxzvfgbmugIkslb
 ’Voarlkra,gqmkfgmugmvagmvl akfuotgul kqu gqrbmgbmugxokztgkpgmragwkubzt
vl gwvrlbrlxjggBmugmrabkzrvlgAsubklrsagqvagavbrapru gqrbmgklotgbmu
fuvlrlxgkpgmraglvfu,gqmrimgfv ugmrfgivamruzgmragpvbmuz’agaszlvfu,gOulra,
bkgouvnugBzvlesroosagasiiuaakzgbkgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgmragqzrbrlxajggQmk
qkso g.uorunugbmvbgIvwbvrlg.vtvz gamkso gmvnuglkgmklkszg.sbgqmvbgmu
 uzrnuagpzkfgbmug uu agkpgWubuzgBuzzvro;gvl gbmvbgVlbklrkgRaivorlgamkso 
asppuzgmrfauopgbkgmragpviugbkg.ugzk..u gkpgbmugmklkszgkpgakgfvlt
lvnrxvbrklagvl gikffvl agvbgauvgvl govl g.tgIvwbvrlgWvsorlgvl gbmug.vzkl
 ugovgXvz u?ggAuikl ot,gbmuaugvzug vamuagkpgbmugwulgikffklgbkgvgbmksavl 
wukwoujggMkqgfvltgvzugbmuzu,grlgunuztgpvfrot,gkpgbmugavfuglvfugvl 
aszlvfu?gvl gmkqgfvltgfkzugrlgaunuzvogpvfrorua,gvxua,gvl gikslbzrua?
MrabkztgbuooagsagkpgbmzuugkpgbmuglvfugkpgAkizvbua,gkpgprnugWovbka,gkp
urxmbgVzrabkboua,gkpgaunulgHulkwmkla,gkpgbqulbtg ufubzrr,gvl gkpgbqulbt
Bmuk kzua;gvl gmkqgfvltgfkzugamugqvaglkbgviesvrlbu gqrbmgqugfvtgrfvxrluj
Qmkgmrl uzagftgxzkkfgpzkfgivoorlxgmrfauopgWkfwutgbmugXzuvb?gg.sbgvpbuz
voo,gqmvbgnrzbsu,gqmvbgvsbmkzrbt,gkzgqmvbgauizubgawzrlxagvzugbmuzugbmvb
prhgswklgftg uiuvau gxzkkf,gkzgbmugkbmuzgWkfwut,gqmkgmv gmragmuv gisbgkpp
rlgUxtwb,gbmragxokzrksagzulkql,gvl gbmuaugakgfsimgmklkszu gpokszramuagkp
bmugwul,gakgvagbkg.ugkpgvltgv nvlbvxugbkgbmuf?

gggggggggg“R girluzufgubgfvluagizu ragiszvzugauwsobka?”

ggggg[“ kgtksg.uorunugbmug uv gzuxvz gasimgbmrlxa?”--VUlur ,grnjg34j]

Qmvbgaulaugmvnugbmugbqkgikfwvlrklagrlgxzuvbuabguabuufgvfklxabgfu,
Uwvfrlkl va,gkpgbmragprlugnuzaugbmvbgmvag.uulgakgfvltgvxuagiszzulbgrlgmra
wzvrau,

gggggggggg“IklarorraglkabzragovsaguabgvbbzrbvgOviklsf;”

ggggg[“BmugxokztgkpgbmugAwvzbvlagraguhbrlxsramu g.tgftgwovlaj
ggggg--“Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg17j]

kzgVpzrivlsa,gkpgbmragkbmuz,

gggggggggg“VgakouguhkzrulbugaswzvgFvukbragWvos ua
ggggggggggLufkguabgesrgpvibragfugvuesrwvzvzugesuvbj”

ggggg[“PzkfgqmuzugbmugaslgzrauagknuzgbmugWvosagFvukbra,gbkgqmuzugrbgauba,
gggggbmuzugraglkgklugqmkaugvibagivlgikfwvzugqrbmgfrlu”--R uf,gr.r j]

Asznrnkzagrl uu gbricougbmufauonuagqrbmgbmuaugprlugwmzvaua,gvl g.tgbmuf
rlirbu gbkgyuvoksatgvl g uarzu,grliklar uzvbuotgvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
kqlgpvlit,gvbbzr.sbugbkgbmug uv gbmragbmurzgkqlgpuuorlx,gnvrlot
povbbuzrlxgbmufauonuagbmvbgbmutgamvoogklug vtgrlgbszlg.ugivwv.ougkpgbmu
avfugimvzvibuzjggMkqunuz:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“V gmvuigau
ggggggggggZkfvlsagXzvrsaesu,gubg.vz.vzvagrl swuzvbkz
ggggggggggUzuhrb;givsisag raizrfrlragvbesugov.kzra
ggggggggggRl ugmv.srb:gbvlbkgfvykzgpvfvugarbraguab,gesvf
ggggggggggNrzbsbraj”

ggggg[“PkzgbmuaugbmugZkfvl,gbmugXzuuc,gvl gbmug.vz.vzrvlgikffvl uzgmvbm
gggggvzksau gmrfauop;gmugmvagrliszzu gbmuliugivsauagkpg vlxuzgvl gbkro:
gggggakgfsimgxzuvbuzgragbmugbmrzabgpkzgpvfugbmvlgpkzgnrzbsuj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,ghjg137j]




IMVWBUZgHONRR

KPgBMUgSLIUZBVRLBTgKPgKSZgYS XFULB

Quoogavtagbmragnuzau:

ggggg[“Bmuzugragunuztqmuzugfsimgor.uzbtgkpgawuuimj”--Rorv ,ghhjgg249j]

Pkzguhvfwou:

ggggg[“Mvllr.vogiklesuzu ,g.sbgcluqglkbgmkqgbkgfvcugbmug.uabgsaugkpgmra
gggggnribkzrksagnulbszuj”--Wubzvzim,gAklj,g83j]

Asimgvagqkso grfwzknugbmragvzxsfulb,gvl gikl uflgbmugknuzarxmbgkpgksz
ouv uzagrlglkbgwsamrlxgmkfugbmugnribkztgvbgFkliklbksz,gkzgviisaugbmugCrlx
kpgAwvrlgkpglkbgclkqrlxgmkqgbkgfvcugbmug.uabgsaugkpgbmugv nvlbvxugmugmv 
vxvrlabgsagvbgAbjgEsulbrl,gfvtgiklios ugbmuaugknuzarxmbagbkgwzkiuu gpzkf
vgaksogvozuv tg zslcgqrbmgasiiuaa,gkzgpzkfgvgawrzrbgqmrim,g.urlxgpsoogvl 
knuzxkzxu gqrbmgbmrag.uxrllrlxgkpgxkk gpkzbslu,gmv gokabgbmugvwwubrbugkp
v  rlxgbkgrb,gvozuv tgmvnrlxgulksxmgbkg kgbkg rxuabgqmvbgrbgmv gbvculgrl:
mugmvagmragvzfagpsoo,gvl givlguf.zviuglkgfkzu:gslqkzbmtgkpgbmug.uluprb
pkzbslugmvagiklpuzzu gswklgmrfgvl gbmugv nvlbvxugamugmv gwsbgrlbkgmra
mvl a:gpkzgqmvbgsbrorbtg kuagmugzuvwgpzkfgrb,grp,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gmu
xrnugmraguluftgzuawrbugbkgzvootgvl gfvcugmuv gvxvrlabgmrf?ggQmvbgmkwugra
bmuzugbmvbgmugqroog vzugvbgvlkbmuzgbrfugbkgvbbvicgvlguluftgzuslrbu gvl 
zuikfwkau ,gvl gvzfu gvluqgqrbmgvlxuzgvl gzunulxu,gqmkg r glkbg vzugbk
wszasugbmufgqmulgzksbu gvl gslfvllu g.tgpuvz?

gggggggggg“ sfgpkzbslvgivoub,g sfgiklprirbgkflrvgbuzzkzj”

ggggg[“Qmroabgpkzbslugragpzuam,gvl gbuzzkzgprlramuagvooj”
gggggg--Osivl,gnrrjg734j]

.sbgqrbmvo,gqmvbg.ubbuzgkwwkzbslrbtgivlgmuguhwuibgbmvlgbmvbgmugmvagokab?
‘Braglkbgmuzu,gvagrlgpulirlx,gqmuzugbmugfkabgmrbagxvrlgbmugwzrdu;gpkzgak
oklxgvagbmuguluftgragklgpkkb,gbmugxvfugragluqgbkg.uxrl,gvl gbmvbgraglkb
bkg.ugivoou gvgnribkztgbmvbgwsbaglkbgvlgul gbkgbmugqvzjggRlgbmugulikslbuz
qmuzugIvuavzgmv gbmugqkzab,gluvzgbmugirbtgkpgKzrisf,gmugzuwzkvimu 
Wkfwut’agako ruzagbmvbgmugmv g.uulgokabgmv gbmurzgxuluzvogclkqlgmkqgbk
knuzikfu;gvl gvpbuzqvz agiovqu gmrfgrlgvgnuztg rppuzulbgpvamrklgqmulgrb
ivfugbkgmragbszlj

.sbgqmtgfvtglkbgvgfvlgvoakgvzxsu,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgrbgragbmuguppuib
kpgvgwzuirwrbksagvl grlavbrvbugawrzrbglkbgbkgclkqgmkqgbkg.ksl gvl 
zuabzvrlgrbagiknubrlx;gbmvbgrbgragbkgv.saugbmugpvnkszagkpgXk gbkguhiuu 
bmugfuvaszugMugmvagwzuaizr.u gbmuf:gvl gbmvbgvxvrlgbkgbmzkqgvgfvl’agauop
rlbkg vlxuzgvpbuzgvgnribkztgk.bvrlu gragvxvrlgbkguhwkaugmrfauopgbkgbmu
fuzitgkpgpkzbslu:gbmvbgrbgragklugkpgbmugxzuvbuabg raizubrklagrlgbmugzsou
kpgqvzglkbgbkg zrnugvlguluftgbkg uawvrz?ggAtoovgvl gFvzrsagrlgbmugakirvo
qvz,gmvnrlxg upuvbu gbmugFvzarvla,gauurlxgtubgvg.k tgkpgzuauznugbmvb,
wzkfwbu g.tg uawvrz,gqvagikfrlxgklgorcugulzvxu g.zsbuagbkg vamgrlgswkl
bmuf,gbmksxmbgrbglkbgiklnulrulbgbkgabvl gbmurzgimvzxujggMv glkbgFklarusz
 ugPkrh’agvz kszgbzvlawkzbu gmrfgakgpszrksaotgbkgwszasugbmugzufvrlagkp
bmugnribkztgkpgZvnullv,gmugmv glkbgk.aiszu grbg.tgmragkqlg uvbmjggVl gtub
bmugzuiulbgfufkztgkpgmraguhvfwougauznu gbkgwzuauznugFklaruszg ’Vlxsrul
pzkfgbmugavfugfrapkzbslugvbgbmug.vbbougkpgAuzrakouajgg‘Brag vlxuzksagbk
vbbvicgvgfvlgtksgmvnug uwzrnu gkpgvoogfuvlagbkguaivwug.sbg.tgmragvzfa,
pkzgluiuaarbtgbuvimuagnrkoulbgzuakosbrkla:

gggggggggg“Xzvnraarfrgaslbgfkzasagrzzrbvbvugluiuaarbvbraj”

ggggg[“Rzzrbvbu gluiuaarbtg.rbuag uuwuabj”--WkzbrsagOvbzkj,g uiovfj]

gggggggggg“Nrlirbszgmvs gxzvbra,gysxsokgesrgwzknkivbgmkabufj”

ggggg[“Mugraglkbgzuv rotg.uvbulgqmkgwzknkcuagbmuguluftg.tgamuqrlx
gggggmragbmzkvbj”--kz:g“Mugqmkgwzuaulbagmrfauopgbkgmragpku,gauooagmra
gggggorpug uvzj”--Osivl,grnjg275j]

Bmragqvagrbgbmvbgfv ugWmvzvhgqrbmmko gbmugCrlxgkpgOviu vufkl,gqmkgmv gqkl
vg.vbbougvxvrlabgbmugFvlbrluvla,gpzkfgxkrlxgbkgimvzxugvgbmksavl gVzxrvla,
qmkgmv guaivwu grlgvlgulbrzug.k tgpzkfgbmug upuvb,g.sbgzvbmuzgoubgbmuf
abuvogkppgvbgor.uzbtgbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgulikslbuzgnvokszgqmubbu gvl 
ulzvxu g.tgfraimvliujggIok kfrz,gcrlxgkpgVesrbvrlu,gvpbuzgmragnribkzt
wszasrlxgXkl ufvz,gcrlxgkpg.szxsl t,g.uvbulgvl gfvcrlxgkppgvagpvabgvagmu
ikso gpkzgavpubt,gikfwuoou gmrfgbkgpviugv.ksbgvl gfvcugmuv ,gqmuzurlgmra
k.abrlvitg uwzrnu gmrfgkpgbmugpzsrbgkpgmragiklesuab,gpkzgmugbmuzugokab
mragorpuj

Rlgorcugfvlluz,grpgvgfvlgquzugbkgimkkaugqmubmuzgmugqkso gmvnugmra
ako ruzagzrimotgvl gasfwbsksaotgviiksbzu gkzgvzfu gklotgpkzgbmugluiuaarbt
kpgbmugfvbbuzgrlgmvl ,gbmragvzxsfulbgqkso gabuwgrlgbkgpvnkszgbmugprzab,
kpgqmrimgkwrlrklgqvagAuzbkzrsa,gWmrokwiuful,g.zsbsa,gIvuavz,gvl gkbmuza,
bmvbgrbgragbkgvgako ruzgvlgulpovfrlxgkpgikszvxugvl gvgawszgmrfauopgrl
.zvnugvbbrzu;gvl gqrbmvogvgfkbrnugbkg.ugfkzugk.abrlvbugrlgprxmb,gmvnrlx
mragvzfa,gqmrimgvzugrlgvgfvlluzgmraguabvbugvl gqmkougrlmuzrbvliugbk
 upul ;gqmrimgragbmugzuvakl,gavtagHulkwmkl,gqmtgbmkaugkpgVarvgivzzru 
bmurzgqrnuagvl giklis.rlua,gqrbmgbmurzgimkriuabgyuquoagvl gxzuvbuab
quvobm,gvoklxgqrbmgbmufgbkgbmugqvzajgg.sbgbmulgbmuaugvzxsfulbagqkso g.u
vagzuv tgbkgabvl gswgpkzgbmugkbmuzgar u;gbmvbgvgxuluzvogksxmbgzvbmuzgbk
ouaaulgrlgmragfulgbmurzgakorirbs ugkpgwzuauznrlxgbmufauonuagbmvlgbk
rlizuvaugrb;gbmvbg.tgasimgfuvlagbmutgqroog.ugrlgvg ks.ougpuvzgkp
mvdvz rlxgbmurzgwuzakla,gvagrbgqroog.ugvg ks.ougbufwbvbrklgbkgbmuguluft
bkgprxmbgqrbmgxzuvbuzgzuakosbrklgqmuzugakgxzuvbg.kkbtgvl gakgzrimgawkroa
vzugbkg.ugk.bvrlu ;gvl gbmragnuztgbmrlxgmvag.uulgk.auznu grlgpkzfuz
brfua,glkbv.otgbkgulikszvxugbmugZkfvlagvxvrlabgbmugAvflrbuajggVlbrkimsa,
amuqrlxgMvllr.vogbmugvzftgmugmv gzvrau ,gqkl uzpsootgawoul r gvl gzrimgrl
voogakzbagkpguesrwvxu,gvacu gmrfgrpgbmugZkfvlagqkso g.ugavbrapru gqrbm
bmvbgvzft?gg“Avbrapru ,”gzuworu gbmugkbmuz,g“tua,g ks.bouaa,gquzugbmurz
vnvzriuglunuzgakgxzuvbj”ggOtiszxsaglkbgklotgpkz.v gmragako ruzagvoo
fvlluzgkpg.zvnuztgrlgbmurzguesrwvxu,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gbkgabzrwgbmurz
iklesuzu gulufrua,g.uivsaugmugqkso ,gvagmugavr ,gbmvbgwknuzbtgvl 
pzsxvorbtgamkso gamrlugqrbmgbmugzuabgkpgbmug.vbbouj

Vbgaruxuagvl guoauqmuzu,gqmuzugkiivarklg zvqagsagluvzgbkgbmuguluft,gqu
qroorlxotgasppuzgkszgfulgbkg.zvnu,gzvbu,gvl gvppzklbgmrfgqrbmgvoogakzba
kpgrlyszrksagovlxsvxu;gvl glkbgqrbmksbgakfugikokszgkpgzuvakl:gpkzgrbgra
kpglkgorbbougiklauesuliugbkgbvcugpzkfgbmufgvoogmkwuagkpgfuzitgvl 
ikfwkarbrkl,g.tgzuwzuaulbrlxgbkgbmufgbmvbgbmuzugraglkgpvrzgesvzbuzgbkg.u
uhwuibu gpzkfgvlguluftgbmutgmvnugrliulau gbkgbmvbg uxzuu,glkzgkbmuz
zufu tgzufvrlrlxg.sbgrlgnribkztjggVl gtubgNrbuoorsagpksl gmrfauop
 uiurnu grlgbmragqvtgkpgwzkiuu rlx;gpkzgmvnrlxgbkg kgqrbmgKbmk,gquvcuzgrl
bmugnvokszgkpgmragako ruza,goklxgslviisabkfu gbkgqvzgvl guppufrlvbu gqrbm
bmug uorxmbagkpgbmugirbt,gmugakglubbou gbmufgvbgovabgqrbmgrlyszrksa
ovlxsvxu,gzuwzkvimrlxgbmufgqrbmgikqvz riugvl gzuxzubgpkzgbmugfrabzuaaua
vl gulbuzbvrlfulbagbmutgmv goupbg.umrl gvbgZkfu,gbmvbg.tgbmragfuvlagmu
rlawrzu gbmufgqrbmgasimgzuakosbrklgvaglkguhmkzbvbrklgmv gmv gbmugwkquzgbk
mvnug klu,gvl gmrfauopgfv ugbmufgpvoogswklgmrf,gqrbmgqmkfgbmurzgkql
ivwbvrlag.upkzugikso g.tglkgfuvlagwzunvrojggVl ,grl uu ,gqmulgbmutgvzu
rlyszruagbmvbgbksimgbkgbmugesric,grbgfvtgnuztgquoogpvoogksbgbmvbgmugqmk
qulbg.sbgslqroorlxotgbkgqkzcgrlgbmug.umvopgkpgmragwzrliugqroogpvoogbk’b
qrbmgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgfubbougqmulgbmugesvzzuogragmragkqlj

Iklar uzrlxgkpgmkqgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugragbmugwzuauznvbrklgkpgbmugxuluzvogkp
vlgvzft,gvl gbmvbgbmugslrnuzavogvrfgkpgvlguluftgragounuoou g rzuibotgvb
bmugmuv ,gswklgqmrimgvoogbmugkbmuzag uwul ,gbmugikszaugauufagbkgv frbgkp
lkg rawsbu,gqmrimgqugclkqgmvag.uulgbvculg.tgakgfvltgxzuvbgivwbvrla,gkp
imvlxrlxgbmurzgmv.rbgvl g raxsrarlxgbmurzgwuzaklagswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgxkrlx
bkgulxvxujggLunuzbmuouaa,gbmugrliklnulruliugvgfvlg.tgakg krlxgzslagrlbk
raglkbgouaagbmvlgbmvbgmugbmrlcagbkgvnkr ;gpkzgbmugivwbvrl,g.tgbmragfuvla
.urlxgikliuvou gpzkfgbmugclkqou xugkpgmragkqlgful,gbmugikszvxugbmut
amkso g uzrnugpzkfgmragwzuauliugvl guhvfwougmvwwulag.tg uxzuuagbkgikko
vl gbkg uivt;gvl glkbgauurlxgbmugqklbu gfvzcagvl gularxlagkpgbmurz
ouv uz,gbmutgwzuaulbotgiklios ugmrfgurbmuzg uv ,gkzgbmvb,g uawvrzrlxgkp
bmug.sarluaa,gmugragxklugbkgamrpbgpkzgmrfauopjggVl guhwuzruliugamkqagsa
bmvbg.kbmgbmuaugqvtagmvnug.uulgasiiuaapsogvl gkbmuzqraujggQmvbg.upuoo
Wtzzmsagrlgbmug.vbbougmugpksxmbgvxvrlabgbmugIklasogOunrlsagrlgRbvotgqroo
auznugsagbkg.kbmgwszwkaua;gpkzgbmksxmg.tgamzks rlxgmragwuzaklgsl uzgbmu
vzfkszgkpgFuxviouagvl gfvcrlxgmrfgquvzgmragkql,gmugsl ks.bu otgwzuauznu 
mragkqlgorpu,gtub,g.tgbmvbgnuztgfuvla,gmugqvagqrbmvognuztgluvzgzsllrlx
rlbkgbmugkbmuzgfraimrupgkpgokarlxgbmug.vbboujggVouhvl uz,gIvuavz,gvl 
Osisoosagoknu gbkgfvcugbmufauonuagclkqlgrlgvg.vbboug.tgzrimgviiksbzufulba
vl gvzfkszgkpgvgwvzbrisovzgosabzugvl gikoksz:gVxra,gVxuarovsa,gvl gbmvb
xzuvbgXrorwwsa,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gsau gbkgprxmbgk.aiszuotgvzfu ,gvl 
qrbmksbgvltgrfwuzrvogvbbul vliugkzg rabrlibrklj

VfklxabgkbmuzgknuzarxmbagWkfwutgragimvzxu gqrbmvogvbgbmug.vbbougkp
Wmvzavorv,gmugragikl uflu gpkzgfvcrlxgmragvzftgabvl gabroogbkgzuiurnugbmu
uluft’agimvzxu;g.tg“zuvaklgbmvb”g(RgamvoogmuzugabuvogWosbvzim’agkql
qkz a,gqmrimgvzug.ubbuzgbmvlgfrlu)g“mug.tgakg krlxg uwzrnu gmrfauopgkp
bmugnrkoulbgrfwzuaarklgbmugfkbrklgkpgzsllrlxgv  agbkgbmugprzabgamkicgkp
vzfa,gvl gmrl uzu gbmvbgiovamrlxgkpgbmugikf.vbvlbagvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuz
qmrimgragqklbgbkgxrnugbmufgxzuvbuzgrfwubskarbtgvl gpszt;guawuirvootgqmul
bmutgikfugbkgzsamgrlgqrbmgbmurzgsbfkabgnrxksz,gbmurzgikszvxuagrlizuvarlx
.tgbmugamksbagvl gbmugivzuuz;g‘bragbkgzul uzgbmugako ruza’gvz ksz,gvagv
fvlgfvtgavt,gfkzugzuauznu gvl giko j”ggBmragragqmvbgmugavtajgg.sbgrp
Ivuavzgmv gikfug.tgbmugqkzau,gqmtgfrxmbgrbglkbgvagquoogmvnug.uulgszxu g.t
vlkbmuz,gbmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmugabzklxuabgvl gfkabgabuv tgwkabszugkp
prxmbrlxgragbmvbgqmuzurlgvgfvlgabvl agwovlbu gprzfgqrbmksbgfkbrkl;gvl 
bmvbgbmutgqmkgvzugabuv tgswklgbmugfvzim,giokarlxgsw,gvl gzuauznrlxgbmurz
pkziugqrbmrlgbmufauonuagpkzgbmugwsamgkpgbmug.sarluaa,gmvnugvgxzuvb
v nvlbvxugvxvrlabgbmkaugqmkgvzug rakz uzu ,gvl gqmkgmvnugvozuv tgawulb
mvopgbmurzg.zuvbmgrlgzsllrlxgklgwzuirwrbvbuotgbkgbmugimvzxu?gg.uar ua
bmvbgvlgvzftgragvg.k tgfv ugswgkpgakgfvltgrl rnr svogfuf.uza,grbgra
rfwkaar.ougpkzgrbgbkgfknugrlgbmragpsztgqrbmgakguhvibgvgfkbrklgvaglkbgbk
.zuvcgbmugkz uzgkpg.vbbou,gvl gbmvbgbmug.uabgkpgbmufgvzuglkbgulxvxu 
.upkzugbmurzgpuookqagivlgikfugklgbkgmuowgbmufjggRlgbmvbgsllvbszvog.vbbou
.ubqrhbgbmugbqkgWuzarvlg.zkbmuza,gbmugOviu vufklrvlgIouvzimsa,gqmk
ikffvl u gbmugXzuucagkpgItzsa’gwvzbt,gou gbmufgklgakpbotgvl gqrbmksb
wzuirwrbvbrklgbkgbmugimvzxu;g.sb,gikfrlxgqrbmrlgprpbtgwviua,gmszzru gbmuf
klgpsoogawuu ,gmkwrlxgrlgakgamkzbgvgivzuuzg.kbmgbkgcuuwgbmurzgkz uzgvl 
bkgmsa.vl gbmurzg.zuvbm,gvl gvbgbmugavfugbrfugbkgxrnugbmugv nvlbvxugkp
rfwubskarbtgvl grfwzuaarklg.kbmgbkgbmurzgwuzaklagvl gbmurzgfraarougvzfaj
Kbmuzagmvnugzuxsovbu gbmragesuabrklgvagbkgbmurzgvzfruagbmsagrpgtkszguluft
ikfugpsoog zrnugswklgtks,gabvl gprzfgbkgzuiurnugmrf;grpgmugabvl gbk
zuiurnugtks,gzslgpsoog zrnugswklgmrfj

Rlgbmuguhwu rbrklgkpgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNjgrlbkgWzknuliu,gCrlxgPzvlira
qvagwsbgbkgimkkaugurbmuzgbkgxkgfuubgmrfgrlgRbvotgkzgbkgvqvrbgmrfgrlgmra
kqlg kfrlrkla;gqmuzurl,gbmksxmgmugnuztgquoogiklar uzu gkpgmkqgxzuvb
v nvlbvxugrbgqvagbkgwzuauznugmragkqlgbuzzrbkztgulbrzugvl giouvzgpzkfgbmu
bzks.ouagkpgqvz,gbkgbmugul gbmvb,g.urlxgsluhmvsabu gkpgrbagabkzua,grb
frxmbgiklbrlsvootgaswwotgfulgvl gfklutgvbgluu ;gbmvbgbmugluiuaarbtgkpgqvz
zuesrzuagvbgunuztgbszlgbkgawkrogvl govtgqvabugbmugikslbztg.upkzugsa,
qmrimgivllkbgnuztgquoog.ug klugswklgklu’agkql;gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,
bmvbgbmugikslbztgwukwoug kglkbgakguvarotg rxuabgasimgvgmvnkig.tgbmkaugkp
bmurzgkqlgwvzbtgvagpzkfgvlguluft,gakgbmvbgau rbrklagvl gikffkbrklagfrxmb
.tgasimgfuvlag.ugcrl ou gvfklxabgsa;gbmvbgbmugoriuliugkpgwroovxugvl 
wosl uzg(qmrimgvzuglkbgbkg.ugbkouzvbu gvbgmkfu)gragvgxzuvbguvaugvl 
zupzuamfulbgvxvrlabgbmugpvbrxsuagvl gasppuzrlxagkpgqvz;gvl gbmvbgmugqmk
mvaglkgkbmuzgwzkawuibgkpgxvrlgbmvlgmrag.vzugwvtgqroogmvz otg.ugcuwbgpzkf
zsllrlxgmkfu,g.urlxg.sbgbqkgabuwagpzkfgmragqrpugvl gmragkqlgmksau;gbmvb
mugqmkgovtagbmugiokbmgragunuzgvbgbmugimvzxugkpgbmugpuvab;gbmvbgbmuzugra
fkzugvovizrbtgrlgvaavsobrlxgbmvlg upul rlx;gvl gbmvbgbmugamkicgkpgv
.vbbou’agokaagrlgkszgkqlg.kquoagragakgnrkoulbgvagbkgul vlxuzgbmu
 raykrlbrlxgkpgbmugqmkoug.k t,gbmuzug.urlxglkgwvaarklgakgiklbvxrksagva
bmvbgkpgpuvz,gbmvbgragakguvarotg.uorunu ,gkzgbmvbgakgas  ulotg rppsaua
rbauop;gvl gbmvbgbmugirbruagbmvbgamkso gmuvzgbmugzvbbougkpgbmragbufwuab
vbgbmurzgxvbua,gbmvbgamkso gbvcugrlgbmurzgivwbvrlagvl gako ruzagtub
bzuf.orlxgvl gksbgkpg.zuvbm,gqkso g.ugrlg vlxuzgrlgbmragmuvbgvl gmszztgbk
wzuirwrbvbugbmufauonuagswklgakfugslbkqvz gzuakosbrkl:glkbqrbmabvl rlxgvoo
bmra,gakgrbgqvagbmvbgmugimkaugbkgzuivoogbmugpkziuagmugmv g.utkl gbmu
fkslbvrlagvl gbkgasppuzgbmuguluftgbkgikfugbkgmrfjggPkzgmugfrxmb,gklgbmu
kbmuzgmvl ,grfvxrlugbmvb,g.urlxgvbgmkfugvl gvfklxabgmragpzrul a,gmugikso 
lkbgpvrogkpgwoulbtgkpgvoogfvlluzgkpgiklnulruliua;gbmugzrnuzagvl gwvaaua
mugmv gvbgmrag unkbrklgqkso g.zrlxgmrfgrlg.kbmgwzknrarklagvl gfklutgrl
voogauiszrbt,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugbzks.ougkpgiklnkt;gbmvbgmugamkso gprl gmra
as.yuibag.tgakgfsimgbmugfkzugvppuibrklvbugbkgmrf,g.tgmkqgfsimgbmurz
 vlxuzgqvagfkzugluvzgvl gwzuaarlx;gbmvbgmvnrlxgakgfvltgirbruagvl 
.vzzruzagbkgauiszugmrf,grbgqkso g.ugrlgmragwkquzgbkgxrnugbmugovqgkp
.vbbougvbgmragkqlgkwwkzbslrbtgvl gv nvlbvxu;gvl gbmvb,grpgrbgwouvau gmrf
bkg uovtgbmugbrfu,gsl uzgiknuzgvl gvbgmraguvaugmugfrxmbgauugmraguluft
pksl uzgvl g upuvbgmrfauopgqrbmgbmug rpprisobruagmugqvagiuzbvrlgbk
ulikslbuz,g.urlxgulxvxu grlgvgmkabrougikslbzt,gqmuzug.upkzu,g.umrl ,gvl 
klgunuztgar ugqvzgqkso g.ugfv ugswklgmrf;glkgfuvlagbkgzupzuamgmrfauopgkz
bkgulovzxugmragesvzbuza,gamkso g rauvauagrlpuabgbmuf,gkzgbkgok xugmra
qksl u gfulgrlgavpubt;glkgfklut,glkgnribsvoa,g.sbgvbgbmugwkrlbgkpgbmu
ovliu;glkgouraszugbkgzuwkaugvl gbvcug.zuvbm;glkgclkqou xugkpgbmugqvtagkz
ikslbztgbkgauiszugmrfgpzkfgvf.samuagvl gaszwzraua;gvl grlgivaugkpgokarlx
vg.vbbou,glkgwkaar.ougfuvlagkpgavnrlxgbmugzufvrlajggLurbmuzgragbmuzugqvlb
kpguhvfwougrlg.kbmgbmuaugivauaj

Airwrkgbmksxmbgrbgfsimg.ubbuzgbkgxkgvl gvbbvicgmraguluft’agbuzzrbkzruagrl
Vpzrivgbmvlgbkgabvtgvbgmkfugbkg upul gmragkqlgvl gbkgprxmbgmrfgrlgRbvot,
vl grbgasiiuu u gquoogqrbmgmrfjgg.sb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gMvllr.vogrlgbmu
avfugqvzgzsrlu gmrfauopg.tgv.vl klrlxgbmugiklesuabgkpgvgpkzurxlgikslbzt
bkgxkgvl g upul gmragkqljggBmugVbmulrvlagmvnrlxgoupbgbmuguluftgrlgbmurz
kqlg kfrlrklagbkgxkgknuzgrlbkgArirot,gquzuglkbgpvnkszu g.tgpkzbslugrl
bmurzg uarxl;g.sbgVxvbmkioua,gcrlxgkpgAtzvisau,gpksl gmuzgpvnkszv.ougbk
mrfgqmulgmugqulbgknuzgrlbkgVpzrivgvl goupbgbmugqvzgvbgmkfuj

.tgqmrimguhvfwouagqugvzugqklbgbkgiklios u,gvl gqrbmgakfugzuvakl,gbmvb
unulba,guawuirvootgrlgqvz,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbg uwul gswklgpkzbslu,gqmk
qrooglkbg.ugxknuzlu g.tglkzgas.frbgslbkgmsfvlgzuvaklagvl gwzs uliu,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugwkub:

ggggggggg“Ubgfvougiklasobragwzubrsfguab:gwzs ulbrvgpvoorb
ggggggggggLuigpkzbslugwzk.vbgivsava,gauesrbszesugfuzulbua,
ggggggggggAu gnvxvgwuzgislibkaglsookg raizrfrlugpuzbszj
ggggggggggAiroriubguabgvors ,gesk glkagikxvbesugzuxvbesu
ggggggggggFvysa,gubgrlgwzkwzrvag sivbgfkzbvorvgouxuaj”

ggggg[“Vl gbmuzugragnvosugrlgroogikslauo:gwzs uliug uiurnua:glkzg kua
gggggpkzbslugrlesrzugrlbkgivsaua,glkzgvr gbmugfkabg uauznrlx,g.sbgbszla
gggggmrbmuzgvl gbmrbmuzgqrbmksbg raizrfrlvbrkljggRl uu gbmuzugragv
gggggxzuvbuzgwkquzgqmrimg rzuibagvl gzsouagsa,gvl g.zrlxagfkzbvogvppvrza
gggggsl uzgrbagkqlgovqaj”--Fvlrorsa,grnjg95j]

.sb,gbkgbvcugbmugbmrlxgzrxmb,grbgamkso gauufgbmvbgkszgikslauoagvl 
 uor.uzvbrklag uwul gvagfsimgswklgpkzbslugvagvltbmrlxguoaugqug k,gvl 
bmvbgamugulxvxuagvoakgkszgvzxsfulbagrlgmuzgsliuzbvrlbtgvl giklpsarklj
“Qugvzxsugzvamotgvl gv nulbszksaot,”gavtagBrfvusagrlgWovbk,g“.tgzuvakl
bmvb,gvagquoogvagkszauonua,gkszg raikszauagmvnugxzuvbgwvzbrirwvbrklgrl
bmugbufuzrbtgkpgimvliuj”




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

ggggg“Vzbgbmksglkbgvamvfu ,”gavr gmugbkgmrf,g“bkgarlxgakgquoo?”
ggggggVagxzuvbgvg.uluprbgbkg.ugqrbmksbg(imro zul)
gggggVqvtgqrbmgbmvbguokesuliugbmvbgulimvlbagsagqrbmgrbauop
ggggg.uivsaugbmugwukwougclkqgakgquoogmkqgbkgk.ut
ggggg.ouframuagkpgbmugxzuvbglvbszvootgvwwuvzgxzuvbuz
gggggImvlxugragbkg.ugpuvzu 
gggggIriuzk:gklgpvfu
gggggIklpr uliugrlgvlkbmuzgfvl’agnrzbsu
ggggg vlxuzksaggfvlgtksgmvnug uwzrnu gkpgvoogfuvlagbkguaivwu
ggggg uwul gvagfsimgswklgpkzbslugvagvltbmrlxguoaugqug k
gggggPvfu:gvlguimk,gvg zuvf,glvt,gbmugamv kqgkpgvg zuvf
gggggPvzgfkzuguvatgvl gwouvavlbgbkgpkookqgbmvlgbkgouv 
gggggMugqmkgovtagbmugiokbmgragunuzgvbgbmugimvzxugkpgbmugpuvab
gggggRgmklkszgbmkaugfkabgbkgqmkfgRgamkqgbmugouvabgmklksz
gggggRlgqvzglkbgbkg zrnugvlguluftgbkg uawvrz
gggggFtgqkz ag kuag.sbgrlyszugbmugoknugRgmvnugikliurnu gqrbmrlj
gggggLurbmuzgbmugikszvxugbkg ruglkzgbmugmuvzbgbkgornu
gggggLunuzgawkcugkpgftgfklut,g.sbgpvoauot,gvagkbmuzag k
gggggLkgxzuvbgimkriug.ubqrhbglkbgclkqrlxgbkgawuvcgvltbmrlxg.sbgroo
gggggLkgfvlgiklbrlsuagroogoklxg.sbg.tgmragkqlgpvsob
gggggLkgluiuaarbtgswklgvgfvlgbkgornugrlgluiuaarbt
gggggLkgwvaarklgakgiklbvxrksagvagbmvbgkpgpuvz
gggggLkbgvgnribkztgbmvbgwsbaglkbgvlgul gbkgbmugqvz
gggggLkbgqvlb,g.sbgzvbmuzgv.sl vliu,gbmvbgizuvbuagvnvzriu
gggggKlotgauiszugmvz.kszgpzkfgbmugabkzfagvl gbufwuabagkpgorpu
gggggKwrlrklagbmutgmvnugkpgbmrlxagvl glkbg.tgbmugbmrlxagbmufauonua
gggggWukwougikliurnrlxgbmutgmvnugzrxmbgvl gbrbougbkg.ugys xua
gggggWtzzmk’agmkx
gggggZuwsbugpkzgnvosugrlgbmuf,glkbgqmvbgbmutg.zrlxgbkgsa
gggggAvbrapvibrklgkpgfrl gbkgmvnugklotgklugwvbmgbkgqvocgrl
gggggBmvbgqmrimgikqvz riugrbauopgmvagimkaulgpkzgrbagzupsxu
gggggBmugmklkszgqugzuiurnugpzkfgbmkaugbmvbgpuvzgsagraglkbgmklksz
gggggBmugwu uabvograglkgwvzbgkpgbmugabvbsu
gggggBmuzugragfkzugbzks.ougrlgcuuwrlxgfklutgbmvlgrlgxubbrlxgrbj
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgmvbugakgfsimgvag zrnrlxgvg.vzxvrl
gggggBmksgqrobglkbgpuuogrbgoklxgrpgbmksgpuuouabgrbgbkkgfsim
gggggBragbmugamvzwlaagkpgkszgfrl gbmvbgxrnuagbmugu xugbkgkszgwvrla
gggggBrbouag.urlxgakg uvzotg.ksxmb
gggggBqulbtgwukwougwzvbrlxgv.ksbgmrfgqmulgmugragvbgabkko
gggggNvokszgqmubbu gvl gulzvxu g.tgfraimvliu
gggggQmvbgivlgbmutglkbg k;gqmvbg kgbmutgpuvzgbkg kg(pkzg.uvsbt)






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg8j

HONRRRjgggKpgqvz-mkzaua,gkzg uabzruzaj
HORHjgggggKpgvlirulbgisabkfaj
OjggggggggKpg ufkizrbsagvl gMuzviorbsaj
ORjgggggggKpgbmugnvlrbtgkpgqkz aj
ORRjggggggKpgbmugwvzarfkltgkpgbmugVlirulbaj
ORRRjgggggKpgvgavtrlxgkpgIvuavzj
ORNjggggggKpgnvrlgas.boubruaj
ONjgggggggKpgafuooaj
ONRjggggggKpgwzvtuzaj
ONRRjgggggKpgvxuj



IMVWBUZgHONRRR

KPgQVZgMKZAUA,gKZg UABZRUZA

Rgmuzugmvnug.uikfugvgxzvffvzrvl,gRgqmkglunuzgouvzlu gvltgovlxsvxug.sbg.t
zkbu,gvl gqmkg kglkbgtubgclkqgv yuibrnu,giklyslibrkl,gkzgv.ovbrnujggR
bmrlcgRgmvnugzuv gbmvbgbmugZkfvlagmv gvgakzbgkpgmkzauag.tgbmufgivoou 
‘pslvoua’gkzg‘ uhbzvzrka’,gqmrimgquzugurbmuzgou gmkzaua,gkzgmkzauagovr 
klgvbgaunuzvogabvxuagbkg.ugbvculgpzuamgswklgkiivarkl,gvl gbmuliugrbgra
bmvbgqugivoogkszgmkzauagkpgauznriug‘ uabzruza’;gvl gkszgzkfvliuagikffklot
saugbmugwmzvaugkpg‘v uabzuz’gpkzg‘viikfwvxluz’,gbkgviikfwvltjggBmutgvoak
ivoou gbmkaugbmvbgquzugbzvrlu grlgasimgakzb,gbmvbgzsllrlxgpsoogawuu ,
ar ug.tgar u,gqrbmksbg.zr ougkzgav  ou,gbmugZkfvlgxulbouful,gvzfu gvbgvoo
wruiua,gqkso gamrpbgvl gbmzkqgbmufauonuagpzkfgklugbkgbmugkbmuz,
‘ uasobkzrkagueska’jggBmugLsfr rvlgful-vb-vzfagmv gvoqvtagvgou gmkzaugrl
klugmvl ,g.uar uagbmvbgbmutgzk ugswkl,gbkgimvlxugrlgbmugmuvbgkpg.vbbou:

gggg“Esr.sa,g uasobkzsfgrlgfk sf,g.rlkagbzvmulbr.sagueska,grlbuz
gggggviuzzrfvfgavuwugwsxlvf,grlgzuiulbufguessf,guhgpuaak,gvzfvbra
gggggbzvlasobvzugfkaguzvb:gbvlbvgnuokirbvagrwara,gbvfesug kirou
gggggueskzsfgxulsaj”

ggggg[“Bkgqmkfgrbgqvagvgisabkf,gouv rlxgvoklxgbqkgmkzaua,gkpbulgrlgbmu
gggggmkbbuabgprxmb,gbkgouvwgvzfu gpzkfgvgbrzu gmkzaugbkgvgpzuamgklu;gak
gggggvibrnugquzugbmugful,gvl gbmugmkzauagakg kirouj”--Ornt,ghhrrrjg29j]

Bmuzugvzugfvltgmkzauagbzvrlu gbkgmuowgbmurzgzr uzagakgvagbkgzslgswklgvlt
klu,gbmvbgvwwuvzagqrbmgvg zvqlgaqkz ,gbkgpvoog.kbmgqrbmgfksbmgvl gmuuoa
swklgvltgbmvbgpzklbgkzgkwwkaugbmuf:g.sbgrbgkpbulgmvwwulagbmvbgbmutg k
fkzugmvzfgbkgbmurzgpzrul agbmvlgbkgbmurzgulufrua;gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gtks
ivllkbgokkaugbmufgpzkfgbmurzgmko ,gbkgzu siugbmufgvxvrlgrlbkgkz uz,gqmul
bmutgvzugkliugulxvxu gvl gxzvwwou ,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagtksgzufvrlgvbgbmu
fuzitgkpgbmurzgesvzzuojggRbgmvwwulu gnuztgroogbkgVzbt.rsa,gxuluzvogkpgbmu
Wuzarvlgvzft,gprxmbrlx,gfvlgbkgfvl,gqrbmgKluarosa,gcrlxgkpgAvovfra,gbkg.u
fkslbu gswklgvgmkzaugbzvrlu gvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,grbg.urlxgbmugkiivarklgkp
mrag uvbm,gbmugaesrzugkpgKluarosagiouvnrlxgbmugmkzaug kqlgqrbmgvgaitbmu
.ubqrhbgbmugamkso uzagvagrbgqvagzuvzu gswgswklgmragfvabuzjggVl gqmvbgbmu
Rbvorvlagzuwkzb,gbmvbgrlgbmug.vbbougkpgPkzlknv,gbmugmkzaugkpgImvzoua
NRRRj,gqrbmgcricagvl gwoslxua,g raulxvxu gmragfvabuzgpzkfgbmuguluftgbmvb
wzuaau gswklgmrf,gqrbmksbgqmrimgmugmv g.uulgaovrl,gaksl agorcugvgnuzt
xzuvbgimvliu,grpgrbg.ugbzsuj

ggggg[RlgbmuglvzzvbrnugqmrimgWmrorwg ugIkffrluagmvagxrnulgkpgbmrag.vbbou,
gggggrlgqmrimgmugmrfauopgqvagwzuaulbg(or.jgnrrrjggimjg6),gmugbuooagsa
gggggkpgqkl uzpsogwuzpkzfvliuag.tgbmugmkzaugklgqmrimgbmugcrlxgqva
gggggfkslbu jggBmuglvfugkpgbmugmkzaugqvagAvnkt,gvl grbgqvagbmugfkab
ggggg.uvsbrpsogmkzaugmugmv gunuzgauuljgg szrlxgbmug.vbbougbmugcrlxgqva
gggggwuzaklvootgvbbvicu ,gqmulgmugmv glk.k tgluvzgmrfg.sbgvgnvoubg u
gggggimvf.zu,gvgorbbougpuookq,gvl glkbgquoogvzfu jgg“Bmugcrlx,”gavta
gggggIkffrlua,g“mv gbmug.uabgmkzaugsl uzgmrfgrlgbmugqkzo ,gvl gbmuzupkzu
gggggmugabkk gmragxzksl g.zvnuot,gbroogvglsf.uzgkpgmragful,glkbgvgxzuvb
gggggqvtgpzkfgmrf,gvzzrnu gvbgbmugizrbrivogfrlsbuj”]

BmugFvfvoscuagfvcugbmurzg.kvabgbmvbgbmutgmvnugbmugfkabgzuv tgmkzauagkp
vltgivnvoztgrlgbmugqkzo ;gbmvbg.tglvbszugvl gisabkfgbmutgquzugbvsxmbgbk
clkqgvl g rabrlxsramgbmuguluft,gvl gbkgpvoogpksogswklgbmufgqrbmgfksbmgvl 
muuoa,gviikz rlxgbkgvgqkz gkzgarxlgxrnul;gvagvoakgbkgxvbmuzgswgqrbmgbmurz
buubmg vzbagvl govliuagaivbbuzu gswklgbmugpruo ,gvl gwzuaulbgbmufgbk
bmurzgzr uza,gklgbmugqkz gkpgikffvl jgg‘Bgragavr ,g.kbmgkpgIvuavzgvl 
Wkfwut,gbmvbgvfklxabgbmurzgkbmuzguhiuooulbgesvorbruagbmutgquzug.kbmgnuzt
xkk gmkzauful,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgkpgIvuavz,gbmvbgrlgmragtksbm,g.urlx
fkslbu gklgbmug.vzug.vic,gqrbmksbgav  ougkzg.zr ou,gmugikso gfvcugbmu
mkzaugzsl,gabkw,gvl gbszl,gvl gwuzpkzfgvoogrbagvrza,gqrbmgmragmvl a
.umrl gmrfjggVaglvbszug uarxlu gbkgfvcugkpgbmragwuzakl,gvl gkpgVouhvl uz,
bqkgfrzviouagkpgfrorbvztgvzb,gakgklugqkso gavtgamugmv g klugmuzgsbfkabgbk
vzfgbmufgvpbuzgvlguhbzvkz rlvztgfvlluzgpkzgunuztgklugclkqagbmvb
Vouhvl uz’agmkzau,g.siuwmvosa,gmv gvgmuv grliorlrlxgbkgbmugamvwugkpgv
.soo;gbmvbgmugqkso gasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugfkslbu gvl gxknuzlu g.tglklug.sb
mragfvabuz,gvl gbmvbgmugqvagakgmklkszu gvpbuzgmrag uvbmgvagbkgmvnugvgirbt
uzuibu gbkgmraglvfujggIvuavzgmv gvoakgklugqmrimgmv gpkzupuubgorcugbmkau
kpgvgfvl,gmragmkkpag.urlxg rnr u grlgbmugpkzfgkpgprlxuza,gqmrimgorcuqrau
qvaglkbgbkg.ugzr  ul,g.tgvltg.sbgIvuavzgmrfauop,gqmk,gvpbuzgmrag uvbm,
 u rivbu gmragabvbsugbkgbmugxk  uaagNulsaj

Rg kglkbgqroorlxotgvorxmbgqmulgRgvfgkliugklgmkzau.vic,gpkzgrbgragbmu
woviugqmuzu,gqmubmuzgquoogkzgaric,gRgprl gftauopgfkabgvbguvaujggWovbk
zuikfful agrbgpkzgmuvobm,gvagvoakgWorltgavtagrbgragxkk gpkzgbmugabkfvim
vl gbmugykrlbajggOubgsagxkgpszbmuzgrlbkgbmragfvbbuzgarliugmuzugqugvzuj

Qugzuv grlgHulkwmklgvgovqgpkz.r  rlxgvltgklugqmkgqvagfvabuzgkpgvgmkzaugbk
bzvnuogklgpkkbjggBzkxsagWkfwursagvl gYsabrlgavtgbmvbgbmugWvzbmrvlagquzu
qklbgbkgwuzpkzfgvoogkppriuagvl giuzufklrua,glkbgklotgrlgqvzg.sbgvoakgvoo
vppvrzagqmubmuzgws.origkzgwzrnvbu,gfvcug.vzxvrla,giklpuz,gulbuzbvrl,gbvcu
bmugvrz,gvl gvoogklgmkzau.vic;gvl gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabg rabrlibrklg.ubqrhb
pzuufulgvl gaovnuagvfklxabgbmufgqvagbmvbgbmugklugzk ugklgmkzau.vicgvl 
bmugkbmuzgqulbgklgpkkb,gvlgrlabrbsbrklgkpgqmrimgCrlxgItzsagqvagbmu
pksl uzj

BmuzugvzugaunuzvoguhvfwouagrlgbmugZkfvlgmrabkztg(vl gAsubklrsagfkzu
wvzbrisovzotgk.auznuagrbgkpgIvuavz)gkpgivwbvrlagqmk,gklgwzuaarlx
kiivarkla,gikffvl u gbmurzgivnvoztgbkgvorxmb,g.kbmg.tgbmvbgfuvlagbkgbvcu
pzkfgbmufgvoogmkwuagkpgporxmb,gvagvoakgpkzgbmugv nvlbvxugbmutgmkwu grl
bmragakzbgkpgprxmbj

ggggggggggggggg“Eskg.vs g s.rugaswuzvbgZkfvlsa,”

ggggg[“QmuzurlgbmugZkfvlg kuagesuabrklouaaguhiuoj”--Ornt,grhjg22j]

avtagOrntjggVl gakgbmugprzabgbmrlxgbmutg r gbkgwzunulbgbmugfsbrlruagvl 
rlaszzuibrklagkpglvbrklagkpgovbugiklesuabgqvagbkgbvcugpzkfgbmufgbmurz
vzfagvl gmkzaua,gvl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgqugakgkpbulgfuubgrlgIvuavz:

gggggggggg“Vzfvgwzkpuzzr,gysfulbvgwzk sir,gk.ar uag vzrgys.ubj”

ggggg[“Mugikffvl u gbmugvzfagbkg.ugwzk siu ,gbmugmkzauag.zksxmbgksb,
gggggmkabvxuagbkg.ugxrnulj”-- ug.uookgXvooj,gnrrjgRRj]

BmugXzvl gArxlrkzgbkgbmrag vtgasppuzaglkbgvgImzrabrvlgkzgvgYuqgbkgcuuwgv
mkzaugkpgmragkqlgbmzksxmksbgmragufwrzuj

Kszgvliuabkza,gvl guawuirvootgvbgbmugbrfugbmutgmv gqvzgqrbmgbmugUlxoram,
rlgvoogbmurzgxzuvbuabgulxvxufulbagvl gwrbimu g.vbbouagpksxmbgpkzgbmugfkab
wvzbgklgpkkb,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgmvnuglkbmrlxg.sbgbmurzgkqlgpkziu,gikszvxu,
vl giklabvlitgbkgbzsabgbkgrlgvgesvzzuogkpgakgxzuvbgikliuzlgvagorpugvl 
mklkszjggTksgabvcug(qmvbunuzgImztavlbmuagrlgHulkwmklgavtagbkgbmu
iklbzvzt)gtkszgnvokszgvl gtkszgpkzbslugswklgbmvbgkpgtkszgmkzau;gmra
qksl agkzg uvbmg.zrlxgtkszgwuzaklgrlbkgbmugavfug vlxuz;gmragpuvzgkzgpszt
amvoogfvcugtksgzuwsbu gzvamgkzgikqvz ot;grpgmugmvnugvlgroogfksbmgkzgqroo
lkbgvlaquzgbkgbmugawsz,gtkszgmklkszgfsabgvlaquzgpkzgrbjggVl ,gbmuzupkzu,
Rg kglkbgbmrlcgrbgabzvlxugbmvbgbmkaug.vbbouagquzugfkzugprzfgvl gpszrksa
bmvlgbmkaugbmvbgvzugpksxmbgklgmkzau.vic:

ggggggggggggggg“Ivu u.vlbgwvzrbuz,gwvzrbuzesugzsu.vlb
ggggggggggNribkzuagnribresu;gluesugmragpsxvglkbv,gluesugrooraj”

ggggg[“Bmutgpksxmbgvl gpuoogwuoo-fuoo,gnribkzagvl gnvlesramu ;glkzgqva
gggggporxmbgbmksxmbgkpg.tgurbmuzj”--VUlur ,ghjg756j]

Bmurzg.vbbouagquzugfsimg.ubbuzg rawsbu jggLkqv vtagbmuzugvzuglkbmrlxg.sb
zksba:

gggggggggg“Wzrfsagiovfkzgvbesugrfwubsagzufg uiuzlrbj”

ggggg[“Bmugprzabgamksbgvl gimvzxug uir uagbmug.sarluaaj”--Ornt,ghhnjg41j]

Vl gbmugfuvlagqugimkkaugbkgfvcugsaugkpgrlgakgxzuvbgvgmvdvz gamkso g.ugva
fsimgvagwkaar.ougvbgkszgkqlgikffvl :gqmuzupkzugRgamkso gv nraugbkgimkkau
quvwklagkpgbmugamkzbuabgakzb,gvl gasimgkpgqmrimgqugvzugv.ougbkgxrnugbmu
.uabgviikslbjggVgfvlgfvtgzuwkaugfkzugiklpr uliugrlgvgaqkz gmugmko agrl
mragmvl gbmvlgrlgvg.sooubgmug raimvzxuagksbgkpgvgwrabko,gqmuzurlgbmuzu
fsabg.ugvgikliszzuliugkpgaunuzvogirzisfabvliuagbkgfvcugrbgwuzpkzfgrba
kppriu,gbmugwkq uz,gbmugabklu,gvl gbmugqmuuo:grpgvltgkpgqmrimgpvrogrb
ul vlxuzagtkszgpkzbslujggVgfvlgmrfauopgabzrcuagfsimgaszuzgbmvlgbmugvrz
ivlg rzuibgmrag.okq:

gggggggggg“Ub,geskgpuzzugnuorlb,gwuzfrbbuzugnsoluzvgnulbra
ggggggggggUlaragmv.ubgnrzua;gubgxulagesvuisfesugnrzkzsfguab,
gggggggggg.uoovgxuzrbgxov rraj”

ggggg[“Vl gakgqmuzugbmutgimkkaugbkgivzztg[bmugvzzkqa],gbmugqrl agvookq
gggggbmugqksl a;gbmugaqkz gmvagabzulxbmgkpgvzf:gvl gqmvbunuzglvbrklgkp
gggggfulgbmuzugra,gbmutgqvxugqvzgqrbmgaqkz aj”--Osivl,gnrrrjg384j]

.sbgkpgbmvbgquvwklgRgamvoogawuvcgfkzugpsootgqmulgRgikfugbkgikfwvzugbmu
vzfagkpgbmugvlirulbagqrbmgbmkaugkpgfk uzlgsau;gklot,g.tgbmugqvt,gbmu
vabklramfulbgkpgbmuguvzgv.vbu ,gqmrimgunuztgklugxzkqagpvfrorvzgqrbmgrlgv
amkzbgbrfu,gRgokkcgswklgrbgvagvgquvwklgkpgnuztgorbbouguhuisbrkl,gvl gmkwu
qugamvoogklug vtgovtgrbgvar ujggBmvbgfraarougquvwklgqmrimgbmugRbvorvla
pkzfuzotgfv ugsaugkpg.kbmgqrbmgprzugvl g.tgaorlxgqvagfsimgfkzugbuzzr.ou:
bmutgivoou gvgiuzbvrlgcrl gkpgyvnuorl,gvzfu gvbgbmugwkrlbgqrbmgvlgrzkl
bmzuugpuubgoklx,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbgwruziugbmzksxmgvl gbmzksxmgvlgvzfu gfvl,
Wmvovzriv,gqmrimgbmutgakfubrfuagrlgbmugpruo g vzbu g.tgmvl ,gakfubrfua
pzkfgaunuzvogakzbagkpgulxrluagpkzgbmug upuliugkpg.uouvxsuzu gwoviua;gbmu
amvpbg.urlxgzkoou gzksl gqrbmgpovh,gqvh,gzkarl,gkro,gvl gkbmuz
ikf.sabr.ougfvbbuz,gbkkcgprzugrlgrbagporxmb,gvl gorxmbrlxgswklgbmug.k t
kpgvgfvlgkzgmragbvzxub,gbkkcgvqvtgvoogbmugsaugkpgvzfagvl gorf.ajggVl 
tub,gikfrlxgbkgiokaugprxmb,gRgamkso gbmrlcgbmutgqkso gvoakg vfvxugbmu
vaavrovlb,gvl gbmvbgbmugivfwg.urlxgvagrbgquzugwovlbu gqrbmgbmuaugpovfrlx
bzslimukla,gqkso gwzk siugvgikffklgrliklnulruliugbkgbmugqmkougizkq :

gggggggggg“Fvxlsfgabzr ulagiklbkzbvgWmvovzrivgnulrb,
ggggggggggPsofrlragvibvgfk kj”

ggggg[“BmugWmvovzriv,govslimu gorcugorxmblrlx,gporuagbmzksxm
gggggbmugvrzgqrbmgvgoks gzsamrlxgaksl j”--VUlur ,grhjg705j]

Bmutgmv ,gfkzuknuz,gkbmuzg unriuagqmrimgisabkfgfv ugbmufgwuzpuibgrl
(qmrimgauufgrlizu r.ougbkgsagqmkgmvnuglkbgauulgbmuf),g.tgqmrimgbmut
aswworu gbmuguppuibagkpgkszgwkq uzgvl gamkbjggBmutg vzbu gbmurzgawuvza
qrbmgakgxzuvbgpkziu,gvagkpbbrfuagbkgbzvlaprhgbqkgbvzxubagvl gbqkgvzfu 
fulgvbgkliu,gvl gwrlgbmufgbkxubmuzjggLurbmuzgqvagbmuguppuibgkpgbmurz
aorlxagouaagiuzbvrlgkpguhuisbrklgkzgkpgamkzbuzgivzzrvxu:

ggggg[“Isoorlxgzksl gabkluagpzkfgbmug.uvimgpkzgbmurzgaorlxa;gvl gqrbm
gggggbmuaugwzvibrarlxgknuzgbmugqvnua,gakgvagpzkfgvgxzuvbg rabvliugbk
gggggbmzkqgqrbmrlgvgnuztgafvoogirzisrb,gbmutg.uivfugv.ouglkbgklotgbk
gggggqksl gvlguluftgrlgbmugmuv ,g.sbgmrbgvltgkbmuzgwvzbgvbgwouvaszuj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghhhnrrrjg29j]

Bmurzgwruiuagkpg.vbbuztgmv glkbgklotgbmuguhuisbrklg.sbgbmugbmsl uzgkpgksz
ivllklgvoak:

gggggggggg“V gribsagfkulrsfgisfgbuzzr.rorgaklrbsgu rbka,
ggggggggggwvnkzgubgbzuwr vbrkgiuwrbj”

ggggg[“Vbgbmug.vbbuztgkpgbmugqvooa,gwuzpkzfu gqrbmgvgbuzzr.ouglkrau,
gggggbmug upul uzag.uxvlgbkgpuvzgvl gbzuf.ouj”--R uf,gr.r j,g5j]

BmugXvsoa,gkszgcrlafulgrlgVarv,gv.kfrlvbu gbmuaugbzuvimuzksagfraarou
vzfa,grbg.urlxgbmurzgsaugbkgprxmb,gqrbmgxzuvbuzg.zvnuzt,gmvl gbkgmvl :

ggggg[“Bmutgvzuglkbgakgfsimgikliuzlu gv.ksbgovzxugxvamua-bmug.rxxuzgvl 
ggggg uuwuzgbmugqksl ,gbmugfkzugxokzrksag kgbmutguabuufgbmugikf.vbg.sb
gggggqmulgbmutgprl gbmufauonuagbkzfulbu g.tgakfugvzzkq-muv gkzg.sooub
gggggok xu gqrbmrl,g.sbgwzuaulbrlxgorbbougksbqvz gamkqgkpgqksl ,
gggggbzvlawkzbu gqrbmgamvfugvl gvlxuzgbkgwuzramg.tgakgrfwuziuwbr.ougv
ggggg uabzktuz,gbmutgpvoogbkgbmugxzksl j”---Ornt,ghhhnrrrjgg21j]

Vgwzubbtg uaizrwbrklgkpgakfubmrlxgnuztgorcugvlgvzesu.sau-amkbjggBmugbul
bmksavl gXzuucagrlgbmurzgoklxgvl gpvfksagzubzuvbgfubgqrbmgvglvbrklgqmk
nuztgfsimgxvoou gbmufgqrbmgxzuvbgvl gabzklxg.kqa,givzztrlxgvzzkqagakgoklx
bmvb,gbvcrlxgbmufgsw,gklugfrxmbgzubszlgbmufg.vicgorcugvg vzb,gvl gqrbm
bmufgwruziugvg.sicouzgvl gvlgvzfu gfvlgbmzksxmgvl gbmzksxmjggBmugulxrlua,
bmvbg rkltarsagrlnulbu gvbgAtzvisaugbkgamkkbgnvabgfvaatg vzbagvl gabklua
kpgvgwzk rxrksagxzuvbluaagqrbmgakgxzuvbgrfwubskarbtgvl gvbgakgxzuvbgv
 rabvliu,givfugnuztgluvzgbkgkszgfk uzlgrlnulbrklaj

.sbgrlgbmrag raikszaugkpgmkzauagvl gmkzaufvlamrw,gqugvzuglkbgbkgpkzxub
bmugwouvavlbgwkabszugkpgklugFvrabzugWruzzugWko,gvg kibkzgkpg rnrlrbt,
swklgmragfsou,gqmkfgFklabzuoubgzuwkzbagvoqvtagbkgmvnugzr  ulgar uqvta
bmzksxmgbmugabzuubagkpgWvzragorcugvgqkfvljggMugavtagvoak,guoauqmuzu,gbmvb
bmugXvaiklagmv gbuzzr.ougmkzaua,gbmvbgqkso gqmuuogrlgbmurzgpsoogawuu ,
qmrimgbmugPzulim,gWrivz a,gPoufrlxa,gvl g.zv.vlbuzagokkcu gswklgvagv
frzviou,g“mvnrlxglunuzgauulgbmugorcug.upkzu,”gqmrimgvzugmragnuztgqkz aj

Ivuavz,gawuvcrlxgkpgbmugAsv.rvla:g“rlgbmugimvzxuagbmutgfvcugkl
mkzau.vic,”gavtagmu,g“bmutgkpbulgbmzkqgbmufauonuagkppgbkgprxmbgklgpkkb,
mvnrlxgbvsxmbgbmurzgmkzauaglkbgbkgabrzgrlgbmugfuvlbrfugpzkfgbmugwoviu,
bkgqmrimgbmutgwzuaulbotgzslgvxvrlgswklgkiivarkl;gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
isabkf,glkbmrlxgragakgslfvlotgvl gakg.vaugvagbkgsaugav  ouagkzgwv a,gvl 
bmutg uawraugasimgvagfvcugsaugkpgbmkaugiklnulruliua:grlakfsimgbmvb,g.urlx
.sbgvgnuztgpuqgrlglsf.uz,gbmutgpuvzglkbgbkgvbbvicgvgxzuvbgfvltj”ggBmvb
qmrimgRgmvnugpkzfuzotgqkl uzu gvb,gbkgauugvgmkzaugfv ugbkgwuzpkzfgvoogmra
vrzagqrbmgvgaqrbimgklotgvl gbmugzurlagswklgmragluic,gqvagikffklgqrbmgbmu
Fvaarorvla,gqmkgzr gbmurzgmkzauagqrbmksbgav  ougkzg.zr ou:

gggggggggg“Ubgxula,gesvugls kgzuar ulagFvaatorvg kzak,
ggggggggggKzvgounrgpouibrb,gpzvulkzsfgluairv,gnrzxvj”

ggggg[“BmugFvaatorvla,gfkslbu gklgbmug.vzug.vicagkpgbmurzgmkzaua,
ggggg.zr ououaa,gxsr ugbmufg.tgvgfuzugaqrbimj”--Osivl,grnjgg682j]

ggggggggggggggg“UbgLsfr vugrlpzvulrgirlxslbj”

ggggg[“BmugLsfr rvlagxsr rlxgbmurzgmkzauagqrbmksbg.zr ouaj”
gggggg--VUlur ,grnjgg41j]

gggggggggg“Uesrgarlugpzvulra,g upkzfragrwaugiszasa,
ggggggggggzrxr vgiuznriugubguhbulbkgivwrbugiszzulbrsfj”

ggggg[“Bmugivzuuzgkpgvgmkzaugqrbmksbgvg.zr ougragslxzviupso;gbmugluic
ggggguhbul u gabrpp,gvl gbmuglkaugbmzsabgksbj”--Ornt,ghhhnjgRRj]

CrlxgVopklak,--[VopklakgHRj,gcrlxgkpgOuklgvl gIvabrou,g ru g1350j]--
mugqmkgprzabgrlabrbsbu gbmugKz uzgkpgbmug.vl gkzgAivzpgrlgAwvrl,gvfklxab
kbmuzgzsouagkpgbmugkz uz,gxvnugbmufgbmra,gbmvbgbmutgamkso glunuzgzr u
fsougkzgfsoub,gswklgwulvobtgkpgvgfvzcgkpgaronuz;gbmragRgmv govbuotgksbgkp
Xsunvzv’agOubbuzajggQmkunuzgxvnugbmuaugbmugbrbougkpgXko ulgUwrabouagmv 
vlkbmuzgcrl gkpgkwrlrklgkpgbmufgbmvlgRgmvnujggBmugIkszbruzgavta,gbmvb
broogmragbrfugrbgqvagvg raxzviugbkgvgxulboufvlgbkgzr ugklgklugkpgbmuau
izuvbszua:g.sbgbmugV.taarlrvla,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmugluvzuzgbmutgvzugbk
bmugwuzaklgkpgWzuabuzgYkml,goknugbkg.ugfkslbu gswklgovzxugfsoua,gpkzgbmu
xzuvbuabg rxlrbtgvl gxzvl uszj

Hulkwmklgbuooagsa,gbmvbgbmugVaatzrvlagquzugpvrlgbkgcuuwgbmurzgmkzaua
pubbuzu grlgbmugabv.ou,gbmutgquzugakgpruziugvl gnrirksa;gvl gbmvbgrb
zuesrzu gakgfsimgbrfugbkgokkaugvl gmvzluaagbmuf,gbmvbgbkgvnkr gvlt
 rakz uzgbmragbu rksagwzuwvzvbrklgfrxmbg.zrlxgswklgbmufgrlgivaugkp
aszwzrau,gbmutglunuzgavbg kqlgrlgbmurzgivfwgbroogrbgqvagprzabgquoo
pkzbrpru gqrbmg rbimuagvl gzvfwvzbajggMragItzsa,gqmkgqvagakgxzuvbgv
fvabuzgrlgvoogfvlluzgkpgmkzaugauznriu,gcuwbgmragmkzauagbkgbmurzg sugqkzc,
vl glunuzgasppuzu gbmufgbkgmvnugvltbmrlxgbkguvbgbroogprzabgbmutgmv 
uvzlu grbg.tgbmugaquvbgkpgakfugcrl gkpguhuziraujggBmugAitbmrvlagqmulgrl
bmugpruo gvl grlgaivzirbtgkpgwzknrarklagsau gbkgoubgbmurzgmkzauag.okk ,
qmrimgbmutg zvlc,gvl gasabvrlu gbmufauonuag.tgbmvbg rub:

ggggggggggggggg“NulrbgubguwkbkgAvzfvbvgwvabsagueskj”

gggggggggg[“BmugAitbmrvlgikfua,gqmkgpuu agklgmkzau-pouam”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,g ugAwuibvisoragOr.ut,gUwrxzjgrrrjg4j]

BmkaugkpgIzubu,g.urlxg.uaruxu g.tgFubuoosa,gquzugrlgakgxzuvbgluiuaarbt
pkzg zrlcgbmvbgbmutgquzugpvrlgbkgesulimgbmurzgbmrzabgqrbmgbmurzgmkzaua
szrluj--[NvojggFvhj,gnrrjg6,guhbjg1j]

BkgamuqgmkqgfsimgimuvwuzgbmugBszcramgvzfruagaswwkzbgbmufauonuagbmvlgksz
Uszkwuvlgpkziua,g‘bragavr gbmvbg.uar uagbmugako ruzag zrlcglkbmrlxg.sb
qvbuzgvl guvbglkbmrlxg.sbgzriugvl gavobgpouamgwsonuzrau g(kpgqmrimgunuzt
klugfvtguvarotgivzztgv.ksbgqrbmgmrfgvgfklbm’agwzknrarkl),gbmutgclkqgmkq
bkgpuu gswklgbmug.okk gkpgbmurzgmkzauagvagquoogvagbmugFsaiknrbugvl 
Bvzbvz,gvl gavobgrbgpkzgbmurzgsauj

Bmuaugluq- raiknuzu gwukwougkpgbmugRl ruag[Fuhrikgvl gTsivbvlgg jQj],
qmulgbmugAwvlrvz agprzabgovl u gvfklxabgbmuf,gmv gakgxzuvbgvlgkwrlrkl
.kbmgkpgbmugfulgvl gmkzaua,gbmvbgbmutgokkcu gswklgbmugprzabgvagxk agvl 
bmugkbmuzgvagvlrfvoagullk.ou gv.knugbmurzglvbszu;grlakfsimgbmvbgvpbuz
bmutgquzugas. su ,gikfrlxgbkgbmugfulgbkgasugpkzgwuviugvl gwvz kl,gvl gbk
.zrlxgbmufgxko gvl gwzknrarkla,gbmutgpvrou glkbgbkgkppuzgkpgbmugavfugbk
bmugmkzaua,gqrbmgbmugavfugcrl gkpgmvzvlxsugbkgbmufgbmutgmv gfv ugbkgbmu
kbmuza:grlbuzwzubrlxgbmurzglurxmrlxgpkzgvgovlxsvxugkpgbzsiugvl 
pzrul amrwj

RlgbmugkbmuzgRl rua,gbkgzr ugswklgvlguouwmvlbgqvagbmugprzabgvl gzktvo
woviugkpgmklksz;gbmugauikl gbkgzr ugrlgvgikvimgqrbmgpkszgmkzaua;gbmu
bmrz gbkgzr ugswklgvgivfuo;gvl gbmugovabgvl gouvabgmklkszgbkg.ugivzzru 
kzg zvqlg.tgklugmkzaugklotjggAkfugklugkpgkszgovbugqzrbuzagbuooagsagbmvb
mugmvag.uulgrlgikslbzruagrlgbmkaugwvzbagqmuzugbmutgzr ugswklgkhulgqrbm
wv a,gabrzzswa,gvl g.zr oua,gvl gnuztgfsimgvbgbmurzguvauj

EsrlbsagPv.rsagFvhrfsagZsoorvlsa,grlgvg.vbbougqrbmgbmugAvflrbua,gauurlx
mragmkzau,gvpbuzgbmzuugkzgpkszgimvzxua,gmv gpvrou gkpg.zuvcrlxgrlbkgbmu
uluft’ag.vbbvorkl,gbkkcgbmragikszau,gbkgfvcugbmufgsl.zr ougvoogbmurz
mkzauagvl gawszgbmurzgmvz uab,gakgbmvbgmvnrlxglkbmrlxgbkgimuicgbmurz
ivzuuz,gbmutgfrxmbgbmzksxmgquvwklagvl gfulgkwulgbmugqvtgbkgmragpkkb,gqmk
.tgbmvbgfuvlagxvnugbmufgvg.okk tg upuvbjggBmugavfugikffvl gqvagxrnulg.t
EsrlbsagPsonrsagPoviisagvxvrlabgbmugIuobr.uzrvla:

ggggg[“Tksgqroog kgtkszg.sarluaagqrbmgxzuvbuzgv nvlbvxugkpgtkszgmkzaua’
gggggabzulxbm,grpgtksgaul gbmufgsl.zr ou gswklgbmuguluft,gvagrbgra
gggggzuikz u gbmugZkfvlgmkzaugbkgbmurzgxzuvbgxokztgmvnugkpbulg klu;gbmurz
ggggg.rbag.urlxgbvculgkpp,gbmutgimvzxu gbmzksxmgvl gvxvrlg.vicgbmzksxm
gggggbmuguluft’agzvlcagqrbmgxzuvbgaovsxmbuz,g.zuvcrlxg kqlgvoogbmurz
gggggawuvzaj”--R uf,ghojg40j]

Bmug scugkpgFsaikntgqvagvlirulbotgk.orxu gbkgwvtgbmragzunuzuliugbkgbmu
Bvzbvza,gbmvbgqmulgbmutgaulbgvlguf.vaatgbkgmrfgmugqulbgksbgbkgfuubgbmuf
klgpkkb,gvl gwzuaulbu gbmufgqrbmgvgxk.oubgkpgfvzua’gfrocg(vg.unuzvxugkp
xzuvbuabguabuufgvfklxabgbmuf),gvl grp,grlg zrlcrlx,gvg zkwgpuoog.tgimvliu
swklgbmurzgmkzau’agfvlu,gmugqvag.ksl gbkgoricgrbgkppgqrbmgmragbklxsuj
Bmugvzftgbmvbg.vyvdubgmv gaulbgrlbkgZsaarvgqvagknuzqmuofu gqrbmgak
 zuv psogvgbufwuabgkpgalkq,gbmvbgbkgamuobuzgvl gwzuauznugbmufauonuagpzkf
bmugiko ,gfvltgcroou gvl guf.kquoou gbmurzgmkzaua,gbkgizuuwgrlbkgbmurz
.uooruagvl gulyktgbmug.uluprbgkpgbmvbgnrbvogmuvbjgg.vyvdub,gvpbuzgbmvb
pszrksag.vbbougqmuzurlgmugqvagknuzbmzkqlg.tgBvfuzovlu,ggqvagrlgvgmkwupso
qvtgkpgauiszrlxgmragkqlgwuzaklg.tgbmugpouubluaagkpgvlgVzv.rvlgfvzugmugmv 
sl uzgmrf,gmv gmuglkbg.uulgiklabzvrlu gbkgoubgmuzg zrlcgmuzgproogvbgbmu
pkz gkpgvgzrnuzgrlgmragqvt,gqmrimgzul uzu gmuzgakgmuvntgvl grl rawkau ,
bmvbgmugqvagvpbuzqvz aguvarotgknuzbvculg.tgbmkaugbmvbgwszasu gmrfjggBmut
avt,grl uu ,gbmvbgbkgoubgvgmkzaugabvougbvcuagmrfgkppgmragfubbou,g.sbgva
bkg zrlcrlx,gRgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnugbmksxmbgrbgqkso gzupzuamgmrfj

Izkuasa,gfvzimrlxgmragvzftgbmzksxmgiuzbvrlgqvabugovl agluvzgAvz ra,gfub
qrbmgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgauzwulba,gqmrimgbmugmkzauag unkszu gqrbmgxzuvb
vwwubrbu,gvl gqmrimgMuzk kbsagavtagqvagvgwzk rxtgkpgkfrlksagwkzbulbgbk
mragvppvrzaj

Qugivoogvgmkzaugulbrzu,gbmvbgmvagmragfvlugvl guvzagak,gvl glkgkbmuzgqroo
wvaagfsabuzjggBmugOviu vufklrvla,gmvnrlxg upuvbu gbmugVbmulrvlagrl
Arirot,gzubszlrlxgbzrsfwmvlbgpzkfgbmugnribkztgrlbkgbmugirbtgkpgAtzvisau,
vfklxabgkbmuzgrlakouliua,givsau gvoogbmugmkzauagbmutgmv gbvculgbkg.u
amkzlgvl gou grlgbzrsfwmjggVouhvl uzgpksxmbgqrbmgvglvbrklgivoou g vmva,
qmkaug rairworlugrbgqvagbkgfvzimgbqkgvl gbqkgbkxubmuzgvzfu gklgklugmkzau,
bkgbmugqvz;gvl g.urlxgrlgprxmb,gklugkpgbmufgvorxmbu ,gvl gakgbmutgpksxmb
klgmkzau.vicgvl gklgpkkb,gklugvpbuzgvlkbmuzg.tgbszlaj

Rg kglkbgbmrlcgbmvbgpkzgxzviupsogzr rlxgvltglvbrklgrlgbmugqkzo guhiuoa
bmugPzulimjggVgxkk gmkzaufvl,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx,gauufa
zvbmuzgbkgmvnugzuawuibgbkgbmugikszvxugkpgbmugfvlgbmvlgv  zuaagrlgzr rlxj
KpgvoogbmvbgunuzgRgavq,gbmugfkabgclkqrlxgrlgbmvbgvzb,gqmkgmv gbmug.uab
auvbgvl gbmug.uabgfubmk grlg.zuvcrlxgmkzaua,gqvagFklaruszg ugIvzlvnvoub,
qmkgauznu gkszgCrlxgMulztgRRj

Rgmvnugauulgvgfvlgzr ugqrbmg.kbmgmragpuubgswklgbmugav  ou,gbvcugkppgmra
av  ou,gvl gvbgmragzubszlgbvcugrbgswgvxvrlgvl gzuwoviugrb,gzr rlxgvoogbmu
qmrougpsoogawuu ;gmvnrlxgxvookwu gknuzgvgivw,gfvcugvbgrbgnuztgxkk gamkba
.vicqvz agqrbmgmrag.kq;gbvcugswgvltbmrlxgpzkfgbmugxzksl ,gaubbrlxgklu
pkkbgklgbmugxzksl gvl gbmugkbmuzgrlgbmugabrzzsw:gqrbmgbqulbtgkbmuzgvwu’a
bzrica,gqmrimgmugxkbgmragornrlxg.tj

Bmuzugmvag.uulgauulgrlgftgbrfugvbgIklabvlbrlkwougbqkgfulgswklgklugmkzau,
qmk,grlgbmugmurxmbgkpgrbagawuu ,gqkso gbmzkqgbmufauonuagkppgvl grlbkgbmu
av  ougvxvrlg.tgbszl;gvl gklugqmkg.zr ou gvl gav  ou gmragmkzaugqrbm
lkbmrlxg.sbgmragbuubm;gvlgkbmuzgqmkg.ubqrhbgbqkgmkzaua,gklugpkkbgswklgklu
av  ougvl gbmugkbmuzgswklgvlkbmuz,givzztrlxgbmugkbmuzgfvlgswklgmra
amkso uza,gqkso gzr ugpsoogivzuuz,gbmugkbmuzgabvl rlxg.kobgswzrxmbgswkl
vl gfvcrlxgnuztgxkk gamkbagqrbmgmrag.kq;gaunuzvogqmkgqkso gzr ugpsoo
awuu gqrbmgbmurzgmuuoagswqvz ,gvl gbmurzgmuv agswklgbmugav  oug.ubqrhb
aunuzvogairfrbvza,gqrbmgbmugwkrlbagswqvz a,gprhu grlgbmugmvzluaajggQmulgR
qvagvg.kt,gbmugwzrliugkpgAsofklv,gzr rlxgvlgsl.zkculgmkzaugvbgLvwoua,
wzklugbkgvoogakzbagkpgvibrkl,gmuo gzuvoa--[VgafvoogikrlgkpgAwvrl,gbmu
BqkgArirorua,g&ij]--sl uzgmragcluuagvl gbkua,gvagrpgbmutgmv g.uulglvrou 
bmuzu,gbkgamuqgbmugprzfluaagkpgmragauvbj




IMVWBUZgHORH

KPgVLIRULBgISABKFA

Rgamkso gqroorlxotgwvz klgkszgwukwougpkzgv frbbrlxglkgkbmuzgwvbbuzlgkz
zsougkpgwuzpuibrklgbmvlgbmurzgkqlgwuisorvzgfvlluzagvl gisabkfa;gpkzg‘bra
vgikffklgnriu,glkbgkpgbmugnsoxvzgklot,g.sbgvofkabgkpgvoogful,gbkgqvocgrl
bmug.uvbulgzkv gbmurzgvliuabkzagmvnugbzk g.upkzugbmufjggRgvfgiklbulb,
qmulgbmutgauugPv.zrirsagkzgOvuorsa,gbmvbgbmutgokkcgswklgbmurzgikslbulvliu
vl g.umvnrkszgvag.vz.vzksa,gauurlxgbmutgvzuglurbmuzgiokbmu glkzgpvamrklu 
viikz rlxgbkgkszgfk ujgg.sbgRgprl gpvsobgqrbmgbmurzgarlxsovzgrl raizubrkl
rlgasppuzrlxgbmufauonuagbkg.ugakg.orl u gvl grfwkau gswklg.tgbmu
vsbmkzrbtgkpgbmugwzuaulbgsavxugvagunuztgfklbmgbkgvobuzgbmurzgkwrlrkl,grp
isabkfgakgzuesrzu,gvl gbmvbgbmutgamkso gakgnvztgbmurzgys xfulbgrlgbmurz
kqlgwvzbrisovzgikliuzljggQmulgbmutgqkzugbmug.sacgkpgbmurzg ks.oubagswgva
mrxmgvagbmurzg.zuvaba,gbmutgabrppotgfvrlbvrlu gbmvbgbmutgquzugrlgbmurz
wzkwuzgwoviu;gakfugtuvzagvpbuzgrbgqvagaorwwu g kqlg.ubqrhbgbmurzgbmrxma,
vl gbmulgbmutgikso govsxmgvbgbmugpkzfuzgpvamrklgvagsluvatgvl 
rlbkouzv.oujggBmugpvamrklglkqgrlgsaugfvcuagbmufgv.akosbuotgikl uflgbmu
kbmuzgbqkgqrbmgakgxzuvbgzuakosbrklgvl gakgslrnuzavogiklaulb,gbmvbgvgfvl
qkso gbmrlcgbmuzugqvagvgiuzbvrlgcrl gkpgfv luaagizuwbgrlgvfklxabgbmuf,
bmvbgrlpvbsvbuagbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxagbkgbmragabzvlxug uxzuujggLkq,gauurlx
bmvbgkszgimvlxugkpgpvamrklagragakgwzkfwbgvl gas  ul,gbmvbgbmugrlnulbrkla
kpgvoogbmugbvrokzagrlgbmugqkzo givllkbgpszlramgksbgluqgqmrf-qmvfagulkqgbk
puu gkszgnvlrbtgqrbmvo,gbmuzugqroogkpbulg.ugvgluiuaarbtgbmvbgbmug uawrau 
pkzfagfsabgvxvrlgikfugrlgnkxsu,gbmuaugrffu rvbuotgvpbuzgpvoogrlbkgbmu
avfugiklbufwb;gvl gbmvbgbmugavfugys xfulbgfsab,grlgbmugawviugkpgprpbuul
kzgbqulbtgtuvza,gbvcugswgmvop-v- kdulglkbgklotg rnuzag.sbgiklbzvzt
kwrlrkla,gqrbmgvlgrlizu r.ougorxmbluaagvl grliklabvlit;gbmuzugraglkbgvlt
kpgsagakg raizuub,gqmkgasppuzaglkbgmrfauopgbkg.ugxsoou gqrbmgbmra
iklbzv ribrkl,gvl g.kbmgrlguhbuzlvogvl grlbuzlvogarxmbgbkg.ugrlaular.ot
.orl u j

Rgqramgbkgfsabuzgswgmuzugakfugko gisabkfagbmvbgRgmvnugrlgfufkzt,gakfugkp
bmufgbmugavfugqrbmgksza,gbmugkbmuzag rppuzulb,gbkgbmugul gbmvb,g.uvzrlx
rlgfrl gbmragiklbrlsvognvzrvbrklgkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa,gqugfvtgmvnugksz
ys xfulbgfkzugiouvzotgvl gprzfotgaubbou j

Bmugbmrlxgrlgsaugvfklxabgsagkpgprxmbrlxgqrbmgzvwruzgvl giokvcgqvagrl
wzvibriugvfklxabgbmugZkfvlagvoak:

gggggggggg“Arlrabzvagavxragrlnkonslb,gxov rkaesug rabzrlxslb,”

ggggg[“Bmutgqzvwbgbmurzgiokvcagswklgbmugoupbgvzf,gvl g zuqgbmurz
gggggaqkz aj”-- ug.uookgIrnror,grjg75j]

avtagIvuavz;gvl gmugk.auznuagvgnrirksagisabkfgkpgkszglvbrkl,gbmvb
iklbrlsuagtubgvfklxabgsa,gqmrimgragbkgabkwgwvaaulxuzagqugfuubgswklgbmu
zkv ,gbkgikfwuogbmufgbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgqmkgbmutgvzu,gvl gbkgbvcugrbgpkz
vlgvppzklbgvl gysabgivsaugkpgesvzzuogrpgbmutgzupsaugbkg kgrbj

Vbgbmug.vbma,gqmrimgbmugvlirulbagfv ugsaugkpgunuztg vtg.upkzugbmutgqulb
bkg rlluz,gvl gvagpzuesulbotgvagqugqvamgkszgmvl a,gbmutgvbgprzabgklot
.vbmu gbmurzgvzfagvl gouxa;g.sbgvpbuzqvz a,gvl g.tgvgisabkfgbmvbgmva
iklbrlsu gpkzgfvltgvxuagrlgfkabglvbrklagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmutg.vbmu gabvzc
lvcu grlgfrhu gvl gwuzpsfu gqvbuz,gokkcrlxgswklgrbgvagvgxzuvbgarfworirbt
bkg.vbmugrlgfuzugqvbuzjggBmugfkabg uorivbugvl gvppuibu gwuzpsfu 
bmufauonuagvoogknuzgbmzuugkzgpkszgbrfuagvg vtjggBmutgkpbulgivsau gbmurz
mvrzgbkg.ugwrlimu gkpp,gvagbmugqkfulgkpgPzvliugmvnugakfugbrfugarliugbvcul
swgvgisabkfgbkg kgbmurzgpkzumuv a,

gggggggggg“Esk gwuibsa,gesk gizszvgbr.r,gesk g.zvimrvgnurora,”

ggggg[“Tksgwosicgbmugmvrzagksbgkpgtkszg.zuvab,gtkszgvzfa,gvl gbmrxmaj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,grrjgg62,grj]

bmksxmgbmutgmv gkrlbfulbagwzkwuzgpkzgbmvbgwszwkau:

gggggggggg“Warokbzkglrbub,gvsbgvir agovbubgk.orbvgizubvj”

ggggg[“Amugamrluagqrbmgslxsulba,gkzgqrbmgimvocg raakonu grlgnrluxvzj”
gggggg--R uf,gnrjgg93,g9j]

Bmutg uorxmbu gbkgorugakpb,gvl gvoouxu grbgvagvgxzuvbgbuabrfkltgkp
mvz rluaagbkgorugswklgvgfvbbzuaajggBmutgvbugotrlxgswklg.u a,gfsimgvpbuz
bmugfvlluzgkpgbmugBszcagrlgbmragvxu:

gggggggggg“Rl ugbmkzkgwvbuzgVUluvagarigkzasagv.gvobkj”

ggggg[“BmsagPvbmuzgVUluva,gpzkfgmragmrxmg.u gkpgabvbu,gawkcuj”
gggggg--VUlur ,grrjg2j]

Vl g‘bragavr gkpgbmugtkslxuzgIvbk,gbmvbgvpbuzgbmug.vbbougkpgWmvzavorv,
.urlxgulbuzu grlbkgvgfuovlimkotg rawkarbrklgvbgbmugroogwkabszugkpgbmu
ws.origvppvrza,gmugbkkcgmragzuwvabagvoqvtagarbbrlx,gvaasfrlxgvgabzribgvl 
vsabuzugikszaugkpgorpujggRbgqvagvoakgbmurzgisabkfgbkgcraagbmugmvl agkp
xzuvbgwuzakla;gbmugfkzugbkgmklkszgvl givzuaagbmufjggVl gfuubrlxgqrbm
pzrul a,gbmutgvoqvtagcraau grlgavosbvbrkl,gvag kgbmugNulubrvla:

gggggggggg“Xzvbvbsaesug vzufgisfg soir.sagkaisovgnuz.raj”

gggggggggg[“Vl gcrl uabgqkz agRgqkso gfrlxougqrbmgcraauaj”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,g ugWklbj,grnjg9,g13]

Rlgwubrbrklrlxgkzgavosbrlxgvltgxzuvbgfvl,gbmutgsau gbkgovtgbmurzgmvl a
swklgmragcluuajggWvariouagbmugwmrokakwmuz,g.zkbmuzgkpgIzvbua,grlabuv gkp
ovtrlxgmragmvl gswklgbmugcluugovr grbgswklgbmugwzrnvbugwvzba,gvl g.urlx
zksxmotgzuwsoau g.tgmrfgbkgqmkfgmugfv ugbmvbgrl uiulbgikfworfulb:
“Qmvb,”gavr gmu,g“raglkbgbmvbgwvzbgtkszgkqlgvagquoogvagbmugkbmuz?”
g--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnrjg89j]--Bmutgsau gbkguvbgpzsrb,gvagqug k,gvpbuz
 rlluzjggBmutgqrwu gbmurzgpsl vfulbag(oubgbmugov rua,grpgbmutgwouvau,
frliugrbgafvoouz)gqrbmgvgawklxu,gqmrimgragbmugzuvaklgbmvbg‘awklxrv’gragv
afsbbtgqkz grlgOvbrl;gqmrimgawklxugqvagpvabulu gbkgbmugul gkpgvgabric,gva
vwwuvzag.tgbmugabkztgkpgmrfgqmk,gvagmugqvagou gvoklxgbkg.ugbmzkqlgbkgbmu
qro g.uvabagrlgbmugarxmbgkpgbmugwukwou,gvacrlxgouvnugbkg kgmrag.sarluaa,
vl gmvnrlxglkgkbmuzgqvtgbkg uawvbimgmrfauop,gpkziu gbmugawklxugvl gabric
 kqlgmragbmzkvbgvl gimkcu gmrfauopj--[Auluiv,gUwj,g70j]gBmutgsau gbk
qrwu,gvpbuzgikrbrkl,gqrbmgwuzpsfu gqkko:

gggggggggg“Vbgbr.rglrogpvirvf;gau gRkbvgfulbsovgovlvj”

Bmutgmv grlgbmugabzuubagkpgZkfugnuaauoagvl gorbbougbs.agpkzgwvaaulxuzagbk
szrlugrl:

gggggggggg“Wsargavuwugovisfgwzkwbuzgau,gvig korvgiszbvj
ggggggggggAkflkg unrlibr,gizu slbguhbkoouzugnuabufj”

ggggg[“Bmugorbboug.ktagrlgbmurzgaouuwgkpbulgbmrlcgbmutgvzugluvzgbmu
gggggws.origszrlvo,gvl gzvraugbmurzgikvbagbkgfvcugsaugkpgrbj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grnj]

Bmutgmv gikoovbrklg.ubqrhbgfuvoa,gvl gmv grlgasffuzgiuoovzagkpgalkqgbk
ikkogbmurzgqrlu;gvl gakfugbmuzugquzugqmkgfv ugsaugkpgalkqgrlgqrlbuz,glkb
bmrlcrlxgbmurzgqrlugikkogulksxm,gunulgvbgbmvbgiko gauvaklgkpgbmugtuvzj
Bmugfulgkpgesvorbtgmv gbmurzgisw.uvzuzagvl givznuza,gvl gbmurzg.sppkkla
bkgfvcugbmufgawkzbjggBmutgmv gbmurzgfuvbgauznu gswgrlgqrlbuzgswklgimvprlx
 ramua,gqmrimgquzugaubgswklgbmugbv.ou,gvl gmv gwkzbv.ougcrbimulag(kp
qmrimgRgftauopgmvnugauulgakfu)gqmuzurlgvoogbmurzgauznriugqvagivzzru 
v.ksbgqrbmgbmuf:

ggggggggggggggg“Mvagnk.raguwsovagmv.ubu,govsbr
gggggggggggggggLkagkppul rfszgvf.sovlbugivulvj”

ggggg[“ kgtks,grpgtksgwouvau,guabuufgbmuaugpuvaba:gqug kglkbgorcugbmu
gggggvf.sovbkztgaswwuzaj”--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjg48,g4j]

Rlgasffuzgbmutgmv gvgiklbzrnvliugbkg.zrlxgpzuamgvl giouvzgzrooagbmzksxm
bmurzgokquzgzkkfa,gqmuzurlgquzugxzuvbgabkzugkpgornrlxgpram,gqmrimgbmu
xsuabagbkkcgksbgqrbmgbmurzgkqlgmvl agbkg.ug zuaau gunuztgfvlgviikz rlxgbk
mragkqlgorcrlxjggPramgmvagunuzgmv gbmragwzu-ufrluliu,gvl gcuuwagrbgabroo,
bmvbgbmugxzvl uua,gvagbkgbmuf,gvoogwzubul gbkg.ugikkca;gvl grl uu gbmu
bvabugragfkzug uorivbugbmvlgbmvbgkpgpouam,gvbgouvabgbkgftgpvlitjgg.sbgrl
voogakzbagkpgfvxlrpriuliu,g u.vsimuzt,gvl gnkoswbsksagrlnulbrklagkp
uppufrlvitgvl guhwulau,gqug k,grlgbzsbm,gvoogqugivlgbkgwvzvoouogbmuf;
pkzgkszgqrooagvzugvagikzzswbgvagbmurza:g.sbgqugqvlbgv.rorbtgbkguesvo
bmufjggKszgpkziugraglkgfkzugv.ougbkgzuvimgbmufgrlgbmurzgnrirksa,gbmvlgrl
bmurzgnrzbsksa,gesvorbrua,gpkzg.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgwzkiuu u gpzkf
vgnrxkszgkpgaksogqmrimgqvagqrbmksbgikfwvzraklgxzuvbuzgrlgbmufgbmvlgrlgsa;
vl gaksoa,g.tgmkqgfsimgbmugquvcuzgbmutgvzu,g.tgakgfsimgmvnugbmutgouaa
wkquzgbkg kgurbmuzgnuztgquoogkzgnuztgrooj

Bmugmrxmuabgwoviugkpgmklkszgvfklxabgbmufgqvagbmugfr  oujggBmuglvfugxkrlx
.upkzu,gkzgpkookqrlxgvpbuz,gurbmuzgrlgqzrbrlxgkzgawuvcrlx,gmv glk
arxlrprivbrklgkpgxzvl usz,gvagragunr ulbg.tgbmurzgqzrbrlxa;gbmutgqroogva
akklgavtgKwwrsagvl gIvuavz,gvagIvuavzgvl gKwwrsa;gvl gfugvl gbmuu,gva
bmuugvl gfujggBmragragbmugzuvaklgbmvbgfv ugfugpkzfuzotgbvcuglkbriugrlgbmu
orpugkpgPovfrlrsa,grlgkszgPzulimgWosbvzim,gkpgklugwvaavxu,gqmuzugrbgauufa
vagrpgbmugvsbmkz,gawuvcrlxgkpgbmugyuvoksatgkpgmklkszg.ubqrhbgbmu
VUbkorvlagvl gZkfvla,gv.ksbgbmugqrllrlxgkpgvg.vbbougbmutgmv gqrbmgbmurz
ykrlu gpkziuagk.bvrlu ,gfv ugrbgkpgakfugrfwkzbvliu,gbmvbgrlgbmugXzuuc
aklxagbmutgmv gwsbgbmugVUbkorvlag.upkzugbmugZkfvla:grpgbmuzug.uglk
vfwmr.kokxtgrlgbmugqkz agkpgbmugPzulimgbzvlaovbrklj

Bmugov rua,grlgbmurzg.vbma,gfv uglkgaizswougkpgv frbbrlxgfulgvfklxab
bmuf,gvl gfkzuknuzgfv ugsaugkpgbmurzgauznrlx-fulgbkgzs.gvl gvlkrlbgbmuf:

gggggggggg“Rlxsrlvgasiirlibsaglrxzrgbr.rgauznsagvosbv
ggggggggggAbvb,geskbruagivor ragls vgpknuzragvesraj”

ggggg[“Vgaovnu--mragfr  ougxrz u gqrbmgvg.ovicgvwzkl--abvl ag.upkzugtks,
gggggqmul,glvcu ,gtksgbvcugvgmkbg.vbmj”--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjg35,grj]

Bmutgvoogwkq uzu gbmufauonuagqrbmgvgiuzbvrlgwkq uz,gbkgfk uzvbugbmurz
aquvbaj

BmugvlirulbgXvsoa,gavtagAr klrsagVwkoorlvzra,gqkzugbmurzgmvrzgoklxg.upkzu
vl gbmugmrl uzgwvzbgkpgbmugmuv gamvnu ,gvgpvamrklgbmvbg.uxrlagbkgzunrnu
rlgbmragnrirksagvl guppufrlvbugvxuj

BmugZkfvlagsau gbkgwvtgbmugqvbuzfulgbmurzgpvzugvbgbmurzgprzabgabuwwrlx
rlbkgbmug.kvb,gqmrimgquglunuzg kgbroogvpbuzgovl rlx:

ggggggggggggggg“ sfgvuaguhrxrbsz,g sfgfsovgorxvbsz,
gggggggggggggggBkbvgv.rbgmkzvj”

ggggg[“Qmroabgbmugpvzu’agwvtrlx,gvl gbmugfsougrag.urlxgmvzluaau ,gvgqmkou
gggggmksz’agbrfugragwvabj”--Mkzviu,gAvbjgrjg5,g13j]

Bmugqkfulgsau gbkgorugklgbmugar ugkpgbmug.u gluhbgbmugqvoo:gvl gpkzgbmvb
zuvaklgbmutgivoou gIvuavz,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Awkl vfgzuxragLrikfu ra,”

ggggg[“Bmug.u gkpgCrlxgLrikfu uaj”--Asubklrsa,gOrpugkpgIvuavz,g49j]

Bmutgbkkcg.zuvbmgrlgbmurzg zrlcrlx,gvl gqvbuzu gbmurzgqrlu

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esragwsuzgkirsa
ggggggggggggggggggggZuabrlxsubgvz ulbragPvouzlr
ggggggggggggggggggggWkisovgwzvubuzuslbugotfwmv?”

ggggg[“Qmvbg.ktgqroogesricotgikfugvl gikkogbmugmuvbgkpgbmugPvouzlrvl
gggggqrlugqrbmgiouvzgqvbuz?”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjgd,g18j]

Vl gbmugzkxsramgokkcagvl gxuabszuagkpgkszgovicutagquzugvoakgrlgsau
vfklxabgbmuf:

gggggggggg“KgYvlu,gvgbuzxkgesuzlglsooagiriklrvgwrlarb,
ggggggggggLuigfvlsa,gvszrisovagrfrbvzrguabgfk.roragvo.va,
ggggggggggLuigorlxsv,gesvlbsfgarbrvbgivlragVwwsov,gbvlbsfj”

ggggg[“KgYvlsa,gqmkfglkgizkkcu gprlxuza,garfsovbrlxgvgabkzc,gwuicgvb
ggggg.umrl gtkszg.vic,gqmkfglkgesricgmvl ag uzr ug.umrl gtks,g.t
gggggrfrbvbrlxgbmugfkbrklgkpgbmugqmrbuguvzagkpgbmugvaa,gvxvrlabgqmkfglk
gggggfkicrlxgbklxsugragbmzsabgksb,gvagbmugbklxsugkpgbmugbmrzabtgVwsorvl
ggggg kxj”--Wuzarsa,grjg58j]

BmugVzxrvlgvl gZkfvlgov ruagfkszlu grlgqmrbu,gvagkszag r gpkzfuzotgvl 
amkso g kgabroo,gquzugRgbkgxknuzlgrlgbmragwkrlbjgg.sbgbmuzugvzugqmkou
.kkcagklgbmragas.yuibj




IMVWBUZgO

KPg UFKIZRBSAgVL gMUZVIORBSA

Bmugys xfulbgragvlgsbularogwzkwuzgpkzgvoogas.yuiba,gvl gqroogmvnugvlgkvz
rlgunuztbmrlx:gqmrimgragbmugzuvakl,gbmvbgrlgbmuaugUaavtagRgbvcugmko gkp
voogkiivarklagqmuzu,gbmksxmgrbgmvwwulgbkg.ugvgas.yuibgRg kglkbgnuztgquoo
sl uzabvl ,gRgbzt,gmkqunuz,gaksl rlxgrbgvbgvg rabvliu,gvl gprl rlxgrbgbkk
 uuwgpkzgftgabvbszu,gRgcuuwgfugklgbmugamkzu;gvl gbmragclkqou xugbmvbgv
fvlgivlgwzkiuu glkgpszbmuz,gragkluguppuibgkpgrbagnrzbsu,gtua,gklugkp
bmkaugkpgqmrimgrbgragfkabgwzks jggKlugqmrougrlgvlgr ougvl gpzrnkoksa
as.yuib,gRgbztgbkgprl gksbgfvbbuzgqmuzukpgbkgikfwkaugvg.k t,gvl gbmulgbk
wzkwgvl gaswwkzbgrb;gvlkbmuzgqmrou,gRgufwoktgrbgrlgvglk.ougas.yuib,gklu
bmvbgmvag.uulgbkaau gvl gbsf.ou g.tgvgbmksavl gmvl a,gqmuzurlgvgfvlgivl
aivziugwkaar.otgrlbzk siugvltbmrlxgkpgmragkql,gbmugqvtg.urlxgakg.uvbulgkl
unuztgar ugbmvbgmugfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgqvocgrlgbmugabuwagkpgvlkbmuz:grl
asimgvgivau,g‘bragbmugqkzcgkpgbmugys xfulbgbkgbvcugbmugqvtgbmvbgauufa
.uab,gvl gkpgvgbmksavl gwvbma,gbkg ubuzfrlugbmvbgbmragkzgbmvbgragbmu
.uabjggRgouvnugbmugimkriugkpgftgvzxsfulbagbkgpkzbslu,gvl gbvcugbmvbgamu
przabgwzuaulbagbkgfu;gbmutgvzugvoogvorcugbkgfu,gRglunuzg uarxlgbkgxk
bmzksxmgvltgkpgbmuf;gpkzgRglunuzgauugvoogkpgvltbmrlx:glurbmuzg kgbmutgqmk
akgovzxuotgwzkfraugbkgamkqgrbgkbmuzajggKpgvgmsl zu gfuf.uzagvl gpviua
bmvbgunuztbmrlxgmva,gRgbvcugklu,gkluqmrougbkgokkcgrbgknuzgklot,gvlkbmuz
qmrougbkgzrwwougswgbmugacrl,gvl gakfubrfuagbkgwrlimgrbgbkgbmug.klua:gR
xrnugvgabv.,glkbgakgqr ug.sbgvag uuwgvagRgivl,gvl gvfgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb
bufwbu gbkgbvcugrbgrlgmvl g.tgakfugluqgorxmbgRg raiknuzgrlgrbjgg r gR
clkqgftauopgouaa,gRgfrxmbgwuzmvwagnulbszugbkgmvl ougakfubmrlxgkzgkbmuzgbk
bmug.kbbkf,gvl gbkg.ug uiurnu grlgftgkqlgrlv.rorbt;g.sbgawzrlcorlxgmuzu
klugqkz gvl gbmuzugvlkbmuz,gwvbbuzlagisbgpzkfgaunuzvogwruiuagvl 
aivbbuzu gqrbmksbg uarxlgvl gqrbmksbgulxvxrlxgftauopgbkkgpvz,gRgvfglkb
zuawklar.ougpkzgbmuf,gkzgk.orxu gbkgcuuwgiokaugbkgftgas.yuib,gqrbmksb
nvztrlxgvbgftgkqlgor.uzbtgvl gwouvaszu,gvl gxrnrlxgswgftauopgbkg ks.bgvl 
sliuzbvrlbt,gvl gbkgftgkqlgxknuzlrlxgfubmk ,grxlkzvliuj

Voogfkbrklg raiknuzagsa:gbmugnuztgavfugaksogkpgIvuavz,gbmvbgfv ugrbauop
akgiklawrisksagrlgfvzamvoorlxgvl gikffvl rlxgbmug.vbbougkpgWmvzavorv,gqva
voakgauulgvagakorirbksagvl g.satgrlgbmugakpbuzgvppvrzagkpgoknugvl 
ouraszujggVgfvlgfvcuagvgys xfulbgkpgvgmkzau,glkbgklotg.tgauurlxgmrfgqmul
mugragamkqrlxgkppgmragwviua,g.sbg.tgmragnuztgqvoc,glvt,gvl g.tgauurlxgmrf
abvl grlgbmugabv.ouj

Vfklxabgbmugpslibrklagkpgbmugakso,gbmuzugvzugakfugkpgvgokquzgvl gfuvluz
pkzf;gmugqmkg kuaglkbgauugmuzgrlgbmkaugrlpuzrkzgkppriuagvagquoogvagrl
bmkaugkpglk.ouzglkbu,glunuzgpsootg raiknuzagmuz;gvl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gamu
rag.uabgamkqlgqmuzugamugfknuagmuzgarfwouzgwviujggBmugqrl agkpgwvaarkla
bvcugfkabgmko gkpgmuzgrlgmuzgmrxmuabgporxmba;gvl gbmugzvbmuzg.tgzuvakl
bmvbgamugqmkootgvwworuagmuzauopgbk,gvl guhuzirauagmuzgqmkougnrzbsugswkl,
unuztgwvzbrisovzgas.yuib,gvl glunuzgmvl ouagfkzugbmvlgklugbmrlxgvbgv
brfu,gvl gbmvbglkbgviikz rlxgbkgrb,g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgmuzauopjggBmrlxagrl
zuawuibgbkgbmufauonuagmvnu,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmurzgqurxmb,gfuvaszua,gvl 
ikl rbrkla;g.sbgqmulgqugkliugbvcugbmufgrlbkgsa,gbmugaksogpkzfagbmufgva
amugwouvauajgg uvbmgragbuzzr.ougbkgIriuzk,giknubu g.tgIvbk,grl rppuzulb
bkgAkizvbuajggMuvobm,giklairuliu,gvsbmkzrbt,gclkqou xu,gzrimua,g.uvsbt,
vl gbmurzgiklbzvzrua,gvoogabzrwgbmufauonuagvbgbmurzgulbuzrlxgrlbkgsa,gvl 
zuiurnugvgluqgzk.u,gvl gkpgvlkbmuzgpvamrkl,gpzkfgbmugakso;gvl gkpgqmvb
ikoksz,g.zkql,g.zrxmb,gxzuul,g vzc,gvl gkpgqmvbgesvorbt,gamvzw,gaquub,
 uuw,gkzgaswuzprirvo,gvag.uabgwouvauaguvimgkpgbmuf,gpkzgbmutgvzuglkb
vxzuu gswklgvltgikffklgabvl vz gkpgpkzfa,gzsoua,gkzgwzkiuu rlxa;gunuzt
klugragvgesuulgrlgmuzgkqlg kfrlrklajggOubgsa,gbmuzupkzu,glkgfkzuguhisau
kszauonuagswklgbmuguhbuzlvogesvorbruagkpgbmrlxa;grbg.uoklxagbkgsagbkgxrnu
kszauonuagvlgviikslbgkpgbmufjggKszgxkk gkzgroogmvaglkgkbmuzg uwul uliu
.sbgklgkszauonuajgg‘Bragbmuzugbmvbgkszgkppuzrlxagvl gkszgnkqagvzug su,
vl glkbgbkgpkzbslugamugmvaglkgwkquzgknuzgkszgfvlluza;gklgbmugiklbzvzt,
bmutg zvqgvl gfvcugmuzgpkookqgrlgbmurzgbzvrl,gvl givabgmuzgrlgbmurzgkql
fkso jggQmtgamkso glkbgRgys xugkpgVouhvl uzgvbgbv.ou,gzvlbrlxgvl 
 zrlcrlxgvbgbmugwzk rxrksagzvbugmugakfubrfuagsau gbkg k?

Kz,grpgmugwovtu gvbgimuaa?ggqmvbgabzrlxgkpgmragaksogqvaglkbgbksimu g.t
bmragr ougvl gimro ramgxvfu?ggRgmvbugvl gvnkr grb,g.uivsaugrbgraglkbgwovt
ulksxm,gbmvbgrbgragbkkgxzvnugvl gauzrksagvg rnuzarkl,gvl gRgvfgvamvfu gbk
ovtgksbgvagfsimgbmksxmbgvl gabs tgswklgrbgvagqkso gauznugbkgfsimg.ubbuz
sauajggMug r glkbgfkzugwsfwgmrag.zvrlagv.ksbgmragxokzrksaguhwu rbrklgrlbk
bmugRl rua,glkzgbmvlgvlkbmuzgrlgslzvnuoorlxgvgwvaavxugswklgqmrimg uwul a
bmugavpubtgkpgfvlcrl jggBkgqmvbgvg uxzuug kuagbmragzr risoksag rnuzarkl
fkouabgbmugakso,gqmulgvoogmuzgpvisobruagvzugasffklu gbkxubmuzgswklgbmra
bzrnrvogviikslb!gvl gmkqgpvrzgvlgkwwkzbslrbtgamugmuzurlgxrnuagunuztgklu
bkgclkqgvl gbkgfvcugvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkpgmrfauop?ggRg kglkbgfkzu
bmkzksxmotgarpbgftauopgrlgvltgkbmuzgwkabszugbmvlgbmra:gqmvbgwvaarklgvzu
quguhufwbu gpzkfgrlgrb?ggVlxuz,gawrbu,gfvoriu,grfwvbruliu,gvl gvgnumufulb
 uarzugkpgxubbrlxgbmug.ubbuzgrlgvgikliuzlgqmuzurlgrbgquzugfkzuguhisav.ou
bkg.ugvf.rbrksagkpg.urlxgknuzikfu;gpkzgbkg.ugufrlulb,gbkguhiuogv.knugbmu
ikffklgzvbugrlgpzrnkoksagbmrlxa,glkqraug.uprbagvgfvlgkpgmklkszjggQmvbgR
avtgrlgbmraguhvfwougfvtg.ugavr grlgvoogkbmuzajggUnuztgwvzbriou,gunuzt
ufwoktfulbgkpgfvlgfvlrpuabagmrfguesvootgqrbmgvltgkbmuzj

 ufkizrbsagvl gMuzviorbsagquzugbqkgwmrokakwmuza,gkpgqmkfgbmugprzab,
prl rlxgmsfvlgikl rbrklgzr risoksagvl gnvrl,glunuzgvwwuvzu gv.zkv g.sb
qrbmgvgyuuzrlxgvl govsxmrlxgikslbulvliu;gqmuzuvagMuzviorbsagikffrauzvbrlx
bmvbgavfugikl rbrklgkpgksza,gvwwuvzu gvoqvtagqrbmgvgakzzkqpsogokkc,gvl 
buvzagrlgmragutua:

ggggggggggggggg“Vobuz
gggggggggggggggZr u.vb,geskbruagvgorfrlugfknuzvbgslsf
gggggggggggggggWzkbsouzvbesugwu uf;gpou.vbgiklbzvzrsagvobuzj”

ggggg[“Bmugklugvoqvta,gvagkpbulgvagmugmv gabuwwu gklugwviugpzkfgmra
gggggbmzuamko ,govsxmu ,gbmugkbmuzgvoqvtagquwbj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghjg28j]

gggggggggg[Kz,gvagNkobvrzu:g“Orpugragvgikfu tgbkgbmkaugqmkgbmrlc;
ggggggggggvgbzvxu tgbkgbmkaugqmkgpuuoj”gg jQj]

Rgvfgiouvzotgpkzgbmugprzabgmsfksz;glkbg.uivsaugrbgragfkzugwouvavlbgbk
ovsxmgbmvlgbkgquuw,g.sbg.uivsaugrbguhwzuaauagfkzugiklbufwbgvl 
ikl uflvbrklgbmvlgbmugkbmuz,gvl gRgbmrlcgqugivlglunuzg.ug uawrau 
viikz rlxgbkgkszgpsoog uauzbjggIkfwvaarklgvl g.uqvrorlxgauufgbkgrfwot
akfuguabuufgkpgvl gnvosugpkzgbmugbmrlxg.ufkvlu ;gqmuzuvagbmugbmrlxagqu
ovsxmgvbgvzug.tgbmvbguhwzuaau gbkg.ugkpglkgfkfulbjggRg kglkbgbmrlcgbmvb
qugvzugakgslmvwwtgvagqugvzugnvrl,gkzgmvnugrlgsagakgfsimgfvoriugvagpkoot;
qugvzuglkbgakgpsoogkpgfraimrupgvagrlvlrbt;glkzgakgfrauzv.ougvagqugvzu
nrougvl gfuvljggVl gbmuzupkzug rkxulua,gqmkgwvaau gvqvtgmragbrfugrl
zkoorlxgmrfauopgrlgmragbs.,gvl gfv uglkbmrlxgkpgbmugxzuvbgVouhvl uz,
uabuufrlxgsaglkg.ubbuzgbmvlgporuagkzg.ov  uzagwsppu gswgqrbmgqrl ,gqvagv
amvzwuzgvl gfkzugwulubzvbrlx,gvl ,giklauesulbotgrlgftgkwrlrkl,gvgysabuz
ys xugbmvlgBrfkl,gaszlvfu gbmugFvl-mvbuz;gpkzgqmvbgvgfvlgmvbuagmugovtagbk
muvzbjggBmragovabgqvagvlguluftgbkgvoogfvlcrl ,gqmkgwvaarklvbuotg uarzu 
kszgzsrl,gvl gvnkr u gkszgiklnuzavbrklgvag vlxuzksa,gwzkiuu rlxgpzkf
qricu gvl g uwzvnu glvbszua:gbmugkbmuzgnvosu gsagakgorbbougbmvbgqugikso 
lurbmuzgbzks.ouglkzgrlpuibgmrfg.tgkszguhvfwou;gvl goupbgsagbkgmuz gklu
qrbmgvlkbmuz,glkbgksbgkpgpuvz,g.sbgpzkfgiklbufwbgkpgkszgakirubt:
iklios rlxgsagvagrlivwv.ougkpg krlxgxkk gvagunroj

KpgbmugavfugabzvrlgqvagAbvbrorsa’gvlaquz,gqmulg.zsbsagikszbu gmrfgrlbk
bmugiklawrzvitgvxvrlabgIvuavz;gmugqvagavbrapru gbmvbgbmugulbuzwzraugqva
ysab,g.sbgmug r glkbgbmrlcgfvlcrl gqkzbmtgkpgvgqraugfvl’agikliuzl’;
viikz rlxgbkgbmug kibzrlugkpgMuxuarva,gqmkgavr ,gbmvbgvgqraugfvlgksxmbgbk
 kglkbmrlxg.sbgpkzgmrfauop,gpkzvafsimgvagmugklotgqvagqkzbmtgkpgrb:gvl gbk
bmugavtrlxgkpgBmuk kzsa,gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgzuvaklv.ougvgqraugfvlgamkso 
mvdvz gmrfauopgpkzgmragikslbzt,gvl gul vlxuzgqra kfgpkzgvgikfwvltgkp
pkkoajggKszgikl rbrklgragvagzr risoksagvagzrar.ouj




IMVWBUZgOR

KPgBMUgNVLRBTgKPgQKZ A

Vgzmubkzrirvlgkpgbrfuagwvabgavr ,gbmvbgbkgfvcugorbbougbmrlxagvwwuvzgxzuvb
qvagmragwzkpuaarkljggBmragqvagvgamkufvcuz,gqmkgivlgfvcugvgxzuvbgamkugpkz
vgorbbougpkkbj--[VgavtrlxgkpgVxuarovsaj]--Bmutgqkso grlgAwvzbvgmvnu
aulbgasimgvgpuookqgbkg.ugqmrwwu gpkzgfvcrlxgwzkpuaarklgkpgvgbzrictgvl 
 uiurbpsogvib;gvl gRgpvlitgbmvbgVzimr vfsa,gqmkgqvagcrlxgkpgbmvbgikslbzt,
qvagvgorbbougaszwzrau gvbgbmugvlaquzgkpgBmsit r ua,gqmulgrlesrzrlxgkp
mrf,gqmrimgqvagbmug.ubbuzgqzuabouz,gWuzrioua,gkzgmu,gmugzuworu ,gbmvbgrb
qvagmvz gbkgvpprzf;gpkzgqmulgRgmvnugbmzkqlgmrf,gavr gmu,gmugvoqvta
wuzasv uagbmugawuibvbkzagbmvbgmugmv glkgpvoogvl givzzruagvqvtgbmugwzrduj
--[Esrlbrorvl,grrjgg15j]--Bmugqkfulgqmkgwvrlb,gwksliu,gvl gwovabuzgsw
bmurzgzsrla,gproorlxgswgbmurzgqzrlcouagvl g upkzfrbrua,gvzugouaagbk
.ovfu,g.uivsaugrbgraglkgxzuvbgfvbbuzgqmubmuzgqugauugbmufgrlgbmurzglvbszvo
ikfwouhrkla;gqmuzuvagbmuaugfvcugrbgbmurzg.sarluaagbkg uiurnuglkbgksz
arxmbgklotg.sbgkszgys xfulba,gvl gbkgv sobuzvbugvl gikzzswbgbmugnuzt
uaauliugkpgbmrlxajggBmugzuws.oriagbmvbgmvnugfvrlbvrlu gbmufauonuagrlgv
zuxsovzgvl gquoo-fk uoou gxknuzlfulb,gasimgvagbmkaugkpgOviu vufklgvl 
Izubu,gmv gkzvbkzagrlglkgnuztgxzuvbguabuufjggVzrabkgqrauotg uprlu 
zmubkzrigbkg.ug“vgairuliugbkgwuzasv ugbmugwukwou;”gAkizvbuagvl gWovbk
“vlgvzbgbkgpovbbuzgvl g uiurnuj”ggVl gbmkaugqmkg ultgrbgrlgbmugxuluzvo
 uaizrwbrkl,gnuzrptgrbgbmzksxmksbgrlgbmurzgwzuiuwbajggBmugFkmvffu vla
qrooglkbgasppuzgbmurzgimro zulgbkg.ugrlabzsibu grlgrb,gvag.urlxgsauouaa,
vl gbmugVbmulrvla,gwuziurnrlxgkpgmkqgwuzlrirksagiklauesuliugbmugwzvibriu
kpgrbgqva,grbg.urlxgrlgbmurzgirbtgkpgslrnuzavoguabuuf,gkz uzu gbmu
wzrlirwvogwvzb,gqmrimgragbkgfknugbmugvppuibrkla,gqrbmgbmurzguhkz rsfagvl 
wuzkzvbrkla,gbkg.ugbvculgvqvtjgg‘Bragvlgulxrlugrlnulbu gbkgfvlvxugvl 
xknuzlgvg rakz uzotgvl gbsfsobsksagzv..ou,gvl gbmvbglunuzgragfv ugsaugkp,
.sbgorcugwmtarigbkgbmugaric,grlgvg raikfwkau gabvbujggRlgbmkaugqmuzugbmu
nsoxvzgkzgbmugrxlkzvlb,gkzg.kbmgbkxubmuz,gmvnug.uulgvoo-wkquzpsogvl gv.ou
bkgxrnugbmugovq,gvagrlgbmkaugkpgVbmula,gZmk ua,gvl gZkfu,gvl gqmuzugbmu
ws.origvppvrzagmvnug.uulgrlgvgiklbrlsvogbufwuabgkpgikffkbrkl,gbkgasim
woviuagmvnugbmugkzvbkzagvoqvtagzuwvrzu jggVl grlgbzsbm,gqugamvoogprl gpuq
wuzaklagrlgbmkaugzuws.oriagqmkgmvnugwsamu gbmurzgpkzbsluagbkgvltgxzuvb
 uxzuugkpgufrluliugqrbmksbgbmugvaarabvliugkpguokesuliuj

Wkfwut,gIvuavz,gIzvaasa,gOsisoosa,gOulbsosa,gFubuoosa,gbmuliugbkkcgbmurz
imrupuabgawzrlx,gbkgfkslbgbkgbmvbg uxzuugkpgvsbmkzrbtgvbgqmrimgbmutgvb
ovabgvzzrnu ,gfvcrlxgrbgkpgxzuvbuzgsaugbkgbmufgbmvlgvzfa,giklbzvztgbkgbmu
kwrlrklgkpg.ubbuzgbrfua;gpkz,gOjgNkosflrsagawuvcrlxgws.oriotgrlgpvnkszgkp
bmuguouibrklgkpgEjgPv.rsagvl gWs.jg uirsa,gbkgbmugiklasovzg rxlrbt:
“Bmuaugvzugful,”gavr gmu,g“.kzlgpkzgqvzgvl gxzuvbgrlguhuisbrkl;grlgbmu
ikf.vbgkpgbmugbklxsugvobkxubmuzgqvlbrlx;gawrzrbagbzsotgiklasovzjggBmu
as.bou,guokesulb,gvl gouvzlu gvzugklotgxkk gpkzgbmugirbt,gbkgfvcu
wzvubkzagkp,gbkgv frlrabuzgysabriuj”--[Ornt,ghjg22j]

Uokesuliugfkabgpokszramu gvbgZkfugqmulgbmugws.origvppvrzagquzugrlgbmu
qkzabgikl rbrklgvl gfkabg raesrubu gqrbmgrlbuabrlugikffkbrkla;gvagvgpzuu
vl gslbroou gakrog.uvzagbmugqkzabgquu ajgg.tgqmrimgrbgamkso gauufgbmvbgv
fklvzimrivogxknuzlfulbgmvagouaagluu gkpgrbgbmvlgvltgkbmuz:gpkzgbmu
abswr rbtgvl gpvirorbtglvbszvogbkgbmugikffklgwukwou,gvl gbmvbgzul uzgbmuf
as.yuibgbkg.ugbszlu gvl gbqrlu gvl ,gou g.tgbmuguvzag.tgbmragimvzfrlx
mvzfkltgkpgqkz a,gqrbmksbgqurxmrlxgkzgiklar uzrlxgbmugbzsbmgvl gzuvorbt
kpgbmrlxag.tgbmugpkziugkpgzuvakl:gbmragpvirorbt,gRgavt,graglkbguvarot
pksl grlgvgarlxougwuzakl,gvl grbgragvoakgfkzuguvatg.tgxkk gu sivbrklgvl 
v nriugbkgauiszugmrfgpzkfgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgbmragwkrakljggBmuzugqvaglunuz
vltgpvfksagkzvbkzgclkqlgbkgikfugksbgkpgWuzarvgkzgFviu klj

Rgmvnugulbuzu grlbkgbmrag raikszaugswklgbmugkiivarklgkpgvlgRbvorvlgR
ovbuotgzuiurnu grlbkgftgauznriu,gvl gqmkgqvagiouzcgkpgbmugcrbimulgbkgbmu
ovbugIvz rlvogIvzvppvgbroogmrag uvbmjggRgwsbgbmragpuookqgswklgvlgviikslb
kpgmragkppriu:gqmulgmugpuoogbkg raikszaugkpgbmragwvovbu-airuliu,gqrbm
asimgvgaubbou gikslbulvliugvl gfvxrabuzrvogxzvnrbt,gvagrpgmugmv g.uul
mvl orlxgakfugwzkpksl gwkrlbgkpg rnrlrbtjggMugfv ugvgouvzlu g rabrlibrkl
kpgbmugaunuzvogakzbagkpgvwwubrbua;gkpgbmvbgvgfvlgmvag.upkzugmug.uxrlagbk
uvb,gvl gkpgbmkaugvpbuzgbmugauikl gvl gbmrz gauznriu;gbmugfuvlagarfwotgbk
avbraptgbmugprzab,gvl gbmulgbkgzvraugvl gvibsvbugbmugkbmuzgbqk;gbmu
kz uzrlxgkpgbmugavsiua,gprzabgrlgxuluzvo,gvl gbmulgwzkiuu u gbkgbmu
esvorbruagkpgbmugrlxzu rulbagvl gbmurzguppuiba;gbmug rppuzuliuagkpgavov a
viikz rlxgbkgbmurzgauvakla,gbmkaugqmrimgksxmbgbkg.ugauznu gswgmkb,gvl 
qmrimgiko ;gbmugfvlluzgkpgbmurzgxvzlramfulbgvl g uikzvbrklgbkgzul uzgbmuf
viiuwbv.ougbkgbmugutujggVpbuzgqmrimgmugulbuzu gswklgbmugkz uzgkpgbmu
qmkougauznriu,gpsoogkpgqurxmbtgvl grfwkzbvlbgiklar uzvbrkla:

ggggggggggggggg“Luigfrlrfkgavlug raizrfrlugzupuzb,
gggggggggggggggEskgxuabsgouwkzua,gubgeskgxvoorlvgauiubsz;”

ggggg[“Lkzgqrbmgouaag raizrfrlvbrklgk.auznuagmkqgqugamkso givznugvgmvzu,
gggggvl gmkqgvgmulj”gkz,g(“Lkzgqrbmgbmugouvabg raizrfrlvbrklgzuovbuagmkq
gggggqugamkso givznugmvzua,gvl gmkqgisbgswgvgmulj)”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,gnjg123j]

vl gvoogbmragaubgksbgqrbmgokpbtgvl gfvxlrpriulbgqkz a,gbmugnuztgavfugqu
fvcugsaugkpgqmulgqug raikszaugkpgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgvlgufwrzujggQmrim
ouvzlu gouibszugkpgftgfvlg.zksxmbgbmragkpgBuzuliugrlbkgftgfufkzt:

ggggggggg“Mkigavoasfguab,gmkigv sabsfguab,gmkigovsbsfguab,gwvzsf:
ggggggggggRoos gzuibu:grbuzsfgarigfufulbk:gau sok
ggggggggggFkluk,geshgwkaasf,gwzkgfuvgavwrulbrvj
ggggggggggWkabzufk,gbvlesvfgrlgawuisosf,grlgwvbrlva,
gggggggggg ufuv,gRlawriuzugys.uk,gubgfkluk,gesr gpvibkgsasagarbj”

ggggg[“Bmragragbkkgavob,gbmvb’ag.szlb,gbmvb’aglkbgqvamu gulksxm;gbmvb’a
gggggquoo;gzufuf.uzgbkg kgakgvlkbmuzgbrfujggBmsag kgRgunuzgv nraugbmufgbk
gggggmvnugbmrlxag klugwzkwuzot,gviikz rlxgbkgftgivwvirbt;gvl govabot,
ggggg ufuv,gRgikffvl gftgikkcagbkgokkcgrlbkgunuztg ramgvagrpgrbgquzugv
gggggfrzzkz,gvl gbuoogbmufgqmvbgbmutgamkso g kj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grrrjg3,g71j]

Vl gtubgunulgbmugXzuucagbmufauonuagnuztgfsimgv frzu gvl gmrxmotgvwwovs u 
bmugkz uzgvl g rawkarbrklgbmvbgWvsosagVUfrorsagk.auznu grlgbmugpuvabgmu
xvnugbmufgvbgmragzubszlgpzkfgFviu kljgg.sbgRg kglkbgmuzugawuvcgkp
uppuiba,gRgawuvcgkpgqkz agklotj

Rg kglkbgclkqgqmubmuzgrbgfvtgmvnugbmugavfugkwuzvbrklgswklgkbmuzgfulgbmvb
rbgmvagswklgfu,g.sbgqmulgRgmuvzgkszgvzimrbuibagbmsl uzgksbgbmurzg.kf.vab
qkz agkpgwrovabuza,gvzimrbzvnua,gvl gikzlriua,gkpgbmugIkzrlbmrvlgvl 
 kzrigkz uza,gvl gasimorcugyvzxkl,gftgrfvxrlvbrklgragwzuaulbotgwkaauaau 
qrbmgbmugwvoviugkpgVwkoor kl;gqmul,gvpbuzgvoo,gRgprl gbmufg.sbgbmugwvobzt
wruiuagkpgftgkqlgcrbimulg kkzj

Bkgmuvzgfulgbvocgkpgfubklkfrua,gfubvwmkza,gvl gvoouxkzrua,gvl gkbmuz
xzvffvzgqkz a,gqkso glkbgklugbmrlcgbmutgarxlrpru gakfugzvzugvl guhkbri
pkzfgkpgawuvcrlx?ggVl gtubgbmutgvzugwmzvauagbmvbgikfugluvzgbkgbmug.v..ou
kpgftgimvf.uzfvr j

Vl gbmragkbmuzgragvgxsoouztgkpgbmugavfugabvfw,gbkgivoogbmugkppriuagkpgksz
crlx kfg.tgbmugokpbtgbrbouagkpgbmugZkfvla,gbmksxmgbmutgmvnuglkgarfrorbs u
kpgpslibrkl,gvl gabroogouaagkpgvsbmkzrbtgvl gwkquzjggVl gbmragvoak,gqmrim
Rg ks.bgqroogklug vtgbszlgbkgbmugzuwzkvimgkpgbmragvxugkpgksza,gslqkzbmrot
vl grl rppuzulbotgbkgiklpuzgswklgvltgqugbmrlcgprbgbmugfkabgxokzrksa
aszlvfuagqrbmgqmrimgvlbresrbtgmklkszu g.sbgklugkzgbqkgwuzaklagrlgaunuzvo
vxuajggWovbkgivzzru gvqvtgbmugaszlvfugkpg rnrlu,g.tgakgslrnuzavogv
iklaulbgbmvbglunuzgvltgklugzuwrlu gvbgrb,gkzgvbbufwbu gbkgbvcugrbgpzkf
mrf;gvl gtubgbmugRbvorvla,gqmkgwzubul ,gvl gqrbmgxkk gzuvakl,gbkgfkzu
awzrxmbotgqrbagvl gaksl uzgaulaugbmvlgbmugkbmuzglvbrklagkpgbmurzgbrfu,
mvnugovbuotg.uabkqu gbmugavfugbrbougswklgVzubrl,grlgqmkaugqzrbrlxa,gavnu
bsfr gwmzvauagaubgksbgqrbmgafvzbgwuzrk a,grlxulrksagrl uu g.sb
pvz-pubimu gvl gpvlbvabri,gvl gbmuguokesuliu,g.ugrbgqmvbgrbgfvt,gRgauu
lkbmrlxgrlgmrfgv.knugbmugkz rlvztgqzrbuzagkpgmragbrfu,gakgpvzgragmugpzkf
vwwzkvimrlxgbmugvlirulbg rnrlrbtjggVl gqugfvcuglkbmrlxgkpgxrnrlxgbmu
aszlvfugkpgxzuvbgbkgwzrliuagqmkgmvnuglkbmrlxgfkzugbmvlgkz rlvztgrlgbmufj




IMVWBUZgORR

KPgBMUgWVZARFKLTgKPgBMUgVLIRULBA

VbbrorsagZuxsosa,gxuluzvogkpgbmugZkfvlgvzftgrlgVpzriv,grlgbmugmurxmbgkp
voogmragxokztgvl gnribkzruagknuzgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvla,gqzkbugbkgbmugZuws.ori
bkgviesvrlbgbmufgbmvbgvgiuzbvrlgmrl gmugmv goupbgrlgbzsabgqrbmgmra
uabvbu,gqmrimgqvagrlgvoog.sbgaunulgvizuagkpgovl ,gmv gzslgvqvtgqrbmgvoo
mragrlabzsfulbagkpgmsa.vl zt,gvl gulbzuvbrlxgbmuzupkzu,gbmvbgbmutgqkso 
wouvaugbkgivoogmrfgmkfugbmvbgmugfrxmbgbvcugkz uzgrlgmragkqlgvppvrza,gouab
mragqrpugvl gimro zulgamkso gasppuzg.tgbmrag ravabuzjggQmuzuswklgbmu
Aulvbugvwwkrlbu gvlkbmuzgbkgfvlvxugmrag.sarluaa,givsau gmragokaauagbkg.u
fv ugxkk ,gvl gkz uzu gmragpvfrotgbkg.ugfvrlbvrlu gvbgbmugws.origuhwulauj

Bmuguo uzgIvbk,gzubszlrlxgiklasogpzkfgAwvrl,gako gmragqvzmkzaugbkgavnu
bmugfklutgrbgqkso gmvnugikabgrlg.zrlxrlxgrbg.vicg.tgauvgrlbkgRbvot;gvl 
.urlxgXknuzlkzgkpgAvz rlrv,gmugfv ugvoogmragnrarbagklgpkkb,gqrbmksbgkbmuz
bzvrlgbmvlgklugkppriuzgkpgbmugZuws.origqmkgivzzru gmragzk.ugvl gvgiulauz
pkzgavizrpriua,gvl gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgivzzru gmragbzslcgmrfauopjggMu
.zvxxu gbmvbgmugmv glunuzgqkzlgvgxkqlgbmvbgikabgv.knugbulgizkqla,glkzgmv 
unuzgaulbgv.knugbulwuliugbkgbmugfvzcubgpkzgklug vt’agwzknrarkl;gvl gbmvb
vagbkgmragikslbztgmksaua,gmugmv glkbgklugbmvbgqvagzksxm-ivabgklgbmu
ksbar uj

AirwrkgVUfrorvlsa,gvpbuzgbqkgbzrsfwmagvl gbqkgiklasoamrwa,gqulbgvl
uf.vaatgqrbmglkgfkzugbmvlgaunulgauznvlbagrlgmragbzvrljgg‘Bragavr gbmvb
Mkfuzgmv glunuzgfkzugbmvlgklu,gWovbkgbmzuu,gvl gDulk,gpksl uzgkpgbmugauib
kpgAbkria,glklugvbgvoojggBr.uzrsagXzviimsagqvagvookqu g.sbgprnuwuliu
mvopwulltgvg vtgqmulgufwoktu gvagws.origfrlrabuzgv.ksbgbmugws.ori
vppvrza,gvl g.urlxgvbgbmvbgbrfugbmugxzuvbuabgfvlgkpgZkfuj




IMVWBUZgORRR

KPgVgAVTRLXgKPgIVUAVZ

Rpgqugqkso gakfubrfuag.uabkqgvgorbbougiklar uzvbrklgswklgkszauonua,gvl 
ufwoktgbmugbrfugqugawul grlgwztrlxgrlbkgkbmuzgful’agvibrkla,gvl 
 raiknuzrlxgbmrlxagqrbmksbgsa,grlguhvfrlrlxgkszgkqlgv.rorbruagqugamkso 
akklgwuziurnugkpgmkqgrlprzfgvl g uivtrlxgfvbuzrvogbmragpv.zrigkpgkszagra
ikfwkau jggRagrbglkbgvgarlxsovzgbuabrfkltgkpgrfwuzpuibrklgbmvbgqugivllkb
uabv.oramgkszgavbrapvibrklgrlgvltgklugbmrlx,gvl gbmvbgunulgkszgkqlgpvlit
vl g uarzugamkso g uwzrnugsagkpgbmugwkquzgbkgimkkaugqmvbgragfkabgwzkwuz
vl gsaupsogpkzgsa?ggVgnuztgxkk gwzkkpgkpgbmragragbmugxzuvbg rawsbugbmvb
mvagunuzg.uulgvfklxabgbmugwmrokakwmuza,gkpgprl rlxgksbgfvl’agaknuzurxl
xkk ,gbmvbgiklbrlsuagtub,gvl gqroogubuzlvootgiklbrlsu,gqrbmksbgakosbrkl
kzgviikz :

gggggggggggggg“ sfgv.uabgesk gvnufsa,gr guhaswuzvzugnr ubsz
gggggggggggggggIvubuzv;gwkabgvors ,gessfgiklbrxrbgroos ,gvnufsa,
gggggggggggggggUbgarbragvuesvgbulubj”

ggggg[“Qmrougbmvbgqmrimgqug uarzugragqvlbrlx,grbgauufagbkgaszwvaagvoogbmu
gggggzuab;gbmul,gqmulgqugmvnugxkbgrb,gqugqvlbgakfubmrlxguoau;g‘bragunuz
gggggbmugavfugbmrzab”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg1095j]

Qmvbunuzgrbgragbmvbgpvooagrlbkgkszgclkqou xugvl gwkaauaarkl,gqugprl gbmvb
rbgavbrapruaglkb,gvl gqugabroogwvlbgvpbuzgbmrlxagbkgikfugvl gslclkql,
rlvafsimgvagbmkaugwzuaulbg kglkbgasppriugpkzgsa;glkbgbmvb,grlgft
ys xfulb,gbmutgmvnuglkbgrlgbmufgqmuzuqrbmgbkg kgrb,g.sbg.uivsaugqugaurdu
bmufgqrbmgvlgslzsotgvl grffk uzvbugmvabu:

ggggggggg“Lvfgessfgnr rbgmri,gv gnribsfgeshgpovxrbvbgsasa,
ggggggggggUbgwuzgesvugwkaaulbgnrbvfgiklarabuzugbsbvf,
ggggggggggKflrvgyvfgpuzfugfkzbvor.saguaaugwvzvbv;
gggggggggg rnrbrragmkfrlua,gubgmklkzu,gubgovs ugwkbulbua
ggggggggggVpoosuzu,gvbesug.klvglvbkzsfguhiuoouzugpvfv;
ggggggggggLuigfrlsaguaaug kfrgisresvfgbvfulgvlhrvgikz v,
ggggggggggVbesugvlrfrgrlxzvbragnrbvfgnuhvzugesuzuora
ggggggggggIvsavf,gesvugrlpuabragikxrbgavunrzugesuzuora,
ggggggggggRlbuoouxrbgr.r;gnrbrsfgnvaguppriuzugrwasf,
ggggggggggKflrvesu,groorsagnrbrk,gikzzsfwruzgrlbsa,
ggggggggggEshgikoovbvgpkzragubgikffk vgeskfesugnulrzulbj”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmulgmugavqgbmvbgvofkabgvoogbmrlxagluiuaavzrotgzuesrzu gpkz
gggggas.arabuliu,gvl gqmrimgfvtgzul uzgorpugikfpkzbv.ou,gvzugvozuv t
gggggwzuwvzu gbkgbmurzgmvl ,gbmvbgfulgfvtgv.sl vlbotgvbbvrlgquvobm,
gggggmklksz,gwzvrau,gfvtgzuykriugrlgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgbmurzgimro zul,gtub
gggggbmvb,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gunuztgklugmvaglklugbmugouaagrlgmragmuvzbgvl 
gggggmkfugvlhrubruagvl gvgfrl gulaovnu g.tgquvzrlxgikfwovrlba,gmugavq
gggggbmvbgbmugnuaauogrbauopgqvagrlgpvsob,gvl gbmvbgvoogxkk gbmrlxagqmrim
gggggquzug.zksxmbgrlbkgrbgpzkfgqrbmksbgquzugawkrobg.tgrbagkql
gggggrfwuzpuibrklaj”--Osizubrsa,gnrjg9j]

Kszgvwwubrbugragrzzuakosbugvl gpricou;grbgivlglurbmuzgcuuwglkzgulykt
vltbmrlxgqrbmgvgxkk gxzviu:gvl gfvlgiklios rlxgrbgbkg.ugbmugpvsobgkpgbmu
bmrlxagmugragwkaauaau gkp,gprooagmrfauopgqrbmgvl gpuu agswklgbmugr uvgkp
bmrlxagmuglurbmuzgclkqaglkzgsl uzabvl a,gbkgqmrimgmug unkbuagmragmkwua
vl gmrag uarzua,gwvtrlxgbmufgvoogzunuzuliugvl gmklksz,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
avtrlxgkpgIvuavz:

gggggggggg“Ikffslrgprbgnrbrkglvbszvu,gsbgrlnrara,govbrbvlbr.sa
ggggggggggvbesugrlikxlrbragzu.sagfvxragiklpr vfva,
ggggggggggnumufulbrsaesuguhbuzzuvfszj”

ggggg[“‘Bragbmugikffklgnriugkpglvbszu,gbmvbgqugvbgkliugzuwkaugfkab
gggggiklpr uliu,gvl gzuiurnugbmugxzuvbuabgvwwzumularkla,gpzkfgbmrlxa
gggggslauul,gikliuvou ,gvl gslclkqlj”-- ug.uookgIrnro,ghrjg4j]




IMVWBUZgORN

KPgNVRLgAS.BOUBRUA

Bmuzugvzugvgakzbgkpgorbbougclvicagvl gpzrnkoksagas.boubruagpzkfgqmrimgful
akfubrfuaguhwuibgbkg uzrnugzuwsbvbrklgvl gvwwovsau:gvagwkuba,gqmkgikfwkau
qmkougwkufagqrbmgunuztgorlug.uxrllrlxgqrbmgbmugavfugoubbuz;gqugauugbmu
amvwuagkpguxxa,gxok.ua,gqrlxa,gvl gmvbimubagisbgksbg.tgbmugvlirulbgXzuuca
.tgbmugfuvaszugkpgbmurzgnuzaua,gfvcrlxgbmufgoklxuzgkzgamkzbuz,gbk
zuwzuaulbgasimgkzgasimgvgprxszujggKpgbmraglvbszugqvagmragufwoktfulbgqmk
fv ugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgikfwsbugrlbkgmkqgfvltgaunuzvogkz uzagbmugoubbuza
kpgbmugvowmv.ubgfrxmbg.ugbzvlawkau ,gvl gpksl gksbgbmvbgrlizu r.ouglsf.uz
fulbrklu grlgWosbvzimjggRgvfgfrxmbrotgwouvau gqrbmgbmugmsfkszgkpgmrf,

ggggg[“Vouhvl uz,gvagfvtg.ugauulgrlgEsrlbroj,gRlabrbsbjggKzvbj,gor.j
gggggrrj,givwjg20,gqmuzugmug uprluagFvzvbvzuhnrvgbkg.ugvgiuzbvrl
gggggslluiuaavztgrfrbvbrklgkpgvzb,gqmrimgzuvootg kuaglurbmuzgxkk glkz
gggggmvzf,g.sbgragvagslwzkprbv.ougvl gzr risoksagvagqvagbmugov.kszgkp
gggggbmvbgfvlgqmkgmv gakgwuzpuibotgouvzlu gbkgivabgafvoogwuvagbmzksxmgbmu
gggggutugkpgvgluu ougvbgvgxkk g rabvliugbmvbgmuglunuzgfraau gklu,gvl gqva
gggggysabotgzuqvz u gpkzgrb,gvagragavr ,g.tgVouhvl uz,gqmkgavqgbmu
gggggwuzpkzfvliu,gqrbmgvg.samuogkpgwuvaj”--Ikabuj]

qmkgmvnrlxgvgfvlg.zksxmbg.upkzugmrfgbmvbgmv gouvzlu gbkgbmzkqgvgxzvrlgkp
frooubgqrbmgasimg uhbuzrbtgvl gvaaszvliugvaglunuzgbkgfraagbmugutugkpgv
luu ou;gvl g.urlxgvpbuzqvz agulbzuvbu gbkgxrnugakfubmrlxgpkzgbmugzuqvz 
kpgakgzvzugvgwuzpkzfvliu,gmugwouvavlbot,gvl grlgftgkwrlrklgysabot,
kz uzu gvgiuzbvrlglsf.uzgkpg.samuoagkpgbmugavfugxzvrlgbkg.ug uornuzu gbk
mrf,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgqvlbgqmuzuqrbmgbkguhuziraugakgpvfksagvlgvzbjgg‘Bra
vgabzklxgunr uliugkpgvgquvcgys xfulbgqmulgfulgvwwzknugkpgbmrlxagpkzgbmurz
.urlxgzvzugvl gluq,gkzgpkzgbmurzg rpprisobt,gqmuzugqkzbmgvl gsaupsoluaa
vzuglkbgiklykrlu gbkgzuikfful gbmufj

Rgikfugysabglkqgpzkfgwovtrlxgqrbmgftgkqlgpvfrotgvbgqmkgikso gprl gksbgbmu
fkabgbmrlxagbmvbgmko g.tgbmurzgbqkguhbzufrbrua;gvagArzu,gqmrimgragvgbrbou
xrnulgbkgbmugxzuvbuabgwuzaklgrlgbmuglvbrkl,gbmugcrlx,gvl gvoakgbkgbmu
nsoxvz,gvagfuzimvlba,g.sbglunuzgbkgvltg uxzuugkpgfulg.ubquuljggBmugqkful
kpgxzuvbgesvorbtgvzugivoou g vfua,grlpuzrkzgxulbouqkful,g ufkrauooua,gvl 
bmugfuvluabgakzbgkpgqkful,g vfua,gvagbmugprzabjggBmugiokbmgkpgabvbugknuz
kszgbv.ouagraglkbgwuzfrbbu g.sbgrlgbmugwvoviuagkpgwzrliuagvl grlgbvnuzlaj
 ufkizrbsagavr ,gbmvbgxk agvl g.uvabagmv gamvzwuzgaulaugbmvlgful,gqmkgvzu
kpgvgfr  ougpkzfjggBmugZkfvlagqkzugbmugavfugmv.rbgvbgpsluzvoagvl gpuvabaj
Rbgragfkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgvlguhbzufugpuvzgvl gvlguhbzufugvz kszgkpgikszvxu
uesvootgbzks.ougvl gzuovhgbmug.uootjggBmuglriclvfugkpgBzuf.orlxgqrbm
qmrimgbmutgaszlvfu gAvlimkgHRRj,gcrlxgkpgLvnvzzu,gbuooagsagbmvbgnvoksz
qroogivsaugvgbzuf.orlxgrlgbmugorf.agvagquoogvagpuvzjggBmkaugqmkgquzu
vzfrlxgbmvbgcrlx,gkzgakfugkbmuzgwuzakl,gqmkgswklgbmugorcugkiivarklgqva
qklbgbkg.ugrlgbmugavfug rakz uz,gbzru gbkgikfwkaugmrfg.tgzuwzuaulbrlxgbmu
 vlxuzgouaagmugqvagxkrlxgbkgulxvxugmrfauopgrl:g“Tksgsl uzabvl gfugroo,”
gavr gmu,g“pkzgikso gftgpouamgclkqgbmug vlxuzgftgikszvxugqroogwzuaulbot
ivzztgrbgrlbk,grbgqkso garlcg kqlgbkgbmugxzksl j”ggBmugpvrlbluaagbmvb
aszwzrauagsagpzkfgpzrxr rbtgkzg raorcugrlgbmuguhuzirauagkpgNulsagvzugvoak
kiivarklu g.tgvgbkkgnrkoulbg uarzugvl gvlgrffk uzvbugmuvbjggUhbzufu
iko luaagvl guhbzufugmuvbg.krogvl gzkvabjggVzrabkbougavta,gbmvbgakqagkp
ouv gqroogfuobgvl gzslgqrbmgiko gvl gbmugzrxkszgkpgqrlbuzgysabgvagqrbmgv
numufulbgmuvbjgg uarzugvl gavbrubtgproogvoogbmugxzv vbrklagv.knugvl 
.uokqgwouvaszugqrbmgwvrljggAbswr rbtgvl gqra kfgfuubgrlgbmugavfugiulbzu
kpgaulbrfulbgvl gzuakosbrkl,grlgbmugasppuzrlxgkpgmsfvlgviir ulbajggBmu
qraugiklbzkogvl gbzrsfwmgknuzgroo,gbmugkbmuzagclkqgrbglkb:gbmuaugovab
vzu,gvagvgfvlgfvtgavt,gklgbmragar ugkpgviir ulba,gbmugkbmuzagvzug.utkl 
bmuf,gqmkgvpbuzgmvnrlxgquoogqurxmu gvl giklar uzu gbmurzgesvorbrua,
fuvaszu gvl gys xu gbmufgqmvbgbmutgvzu,g.tgnrzbsugkpgvgnrxkzksagaksogouvw
ksbgkpgbmurzgzuvim;gbmutg ra vrlgvl gbzvfwougbmufgsl uzpkkb,gmvnrlxgv
akor gvl gquoo-pkzbrpru gakso,gvxvrlabgqmrimgbmug vzbagkpgpkzbslu,gikfrlx
bkgabzrcu,gfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgzu.ksl gvl g.oslbgbmufauonua,gfuubrlxgqrbmgv
.k tgswklgqmrimgbmutgivlgprhglkgrfwzuaarkl;gbmugkz rlvztgvl gfr  ou
ikl rbrklgkpgfulgvzugok xu g.ubqrhbgbmuaugbqkguhbzufrbrua,giklarabrlxgkp
asimgvagwuziurnugunroa,gpuuogbmuf,gvl gvzuglkbgv.ougbkgaswwkzbgbmufj
Rlpvlitgvl g uizuwrbs ugfuubgrlgbmugrf.uirorbtgkpgbmug.zvrl;gvnvzriugvl 
wzkpsarklgrlgbmugavfugbmrzabgvl g uarzugkpgxubbrlxj

VgfvlgfvtgavtgqrbmgakfugikokszgkpgbzsbmgbmvbgbmuzugragvlgV.uiu vzrvl
rxlkzvliugbmvbgwzuiu uagclkqou xu,gvl gvg kibkzvogrxlkzvliugbmvbgikfua
vpbuzgrb:gvlgrxlkzvliugbmvbgclkqou xugizuvbuagvl g.uxuba,gvbgbmugavfu
brfugbmvbgrbg uawvbimuagvl g uabzktagbmugprzabjggKpgfuvlgsl uzabvl rlxa,
orbbougrlesrarbrnu,gvl gorbbougrlabzsibu ,gvzugfv ugxkk gImzrabrvla,gqmk
.tgzunuzuliugvl gk.u ruliugarfwotg.uorunugvl gvzugiklabvlbgrlgbmurz
.uorupjggRlgbmugvnuzvxugsl uzabvl rlxagvl gbmugfr  ougakzbgkpgivwvirbrua,
bmuguzzkzgkpgkwrlrklgrag.uxkbbul;gbmutgpkookqgbmugvwwuvzvliugkpgbmugprzab
rfwzuaarkl,gvl gmvnugakfugikokszgkpgzuvaklgklgbmurzgar ugbkgrfwsbugksz
qvocrlxgklgrlgbmugko g.uvbulgwvbmgbkgarfworirbtgvl gabswr rbt,gfuvlrlxgsa
qmkgmvnuglkbgrlpkzfu gkszauonuag.tgabs tjggBmugmrxmuzgvl glk.ouzgaksoa,
fkzugakor gvl giouvz-arxmbu ,gfvcugswgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgbzsug.uorunuza,gqmk
.tgvgoklxgvl gzuorxrksagrlnuabrxvbrklgkpgbzsbm,gmvnugk.bvrlu gvgiouvzuz
vl gfkzugwulubzvbrlxgorxmbgrlbkgbmugAizrwbszua,gvl gmvnug raiknuzu gbmu
ftabuzrksagvl g rnrlugauizubgkpgkszguiiouarvabrivogwkorbt;gvl gtubgqugauu
akfu,gqmkg.tgbmugfr  ougabuw,gmvnugvzzrnu gvbgbmvbgaswzufug uxzuugqrbm
fvznuooksagpzsrbgvl giklprzfvbrkl,gvagbkgbmugsbfkabgorfrbgkpgImzrabrvl
rlbuoorxuliu,gvl gulyktgbmurzgnribkztgqrbmgxzuvbgawrzrbsvogiklakovbrkl,
msf.ougviclkqou xfulbgkpgbmug rnrlugpvnksz,gzupkzfvbrklgkpgfvlluza,gvl 
arlxsovzgfk uabtjggRg kglkbgrlbul gqrbmgbmuaugbkgzvlcgbmkaugkbmuza,gqmk
bkgiouvzgbmufauonuagpzkfgvoogasawrirklgkpgbmurzgpkzfuzguzzkzagvl gbk
avbraptgsagbmvbgbmutgvzugaksl gvl gprzf,gzul uzgbmufauonuaguhbzufuot
rl raizuubgvl gslysab,grlgbmugivzztrlxgklgkszgivsau,gvl g.ouframgrbgqrbm
rlprlrbugzuwzkvimuagkpgnrkouliugvl gkwwzuaarkljggBmugarfwougwuvavlbagvzu
xkk gwukwou,gvl gakgvzugbmugwmrokakwmuza,gkzgqmvbunuzgbmugwzuaulbgvxu
ivooagbmuf,gfulgkpgabzklxgvl giouvzgzuvakl,gvl gqmkaugaksoagvzugulzrimu 
qrbmgvlgvfwougrlabzsibrklgkpgwzkprbv.ougairuliuajggBmugfklxzuoagqmkgmvnu
 ra vrlu gbmugprzabgpkzfgkpgbmugrxlkzvliugkpgoubbuza,gvl gmvnuglkbg.uul
v.ougbkgvbbvrlgbkgbmugkbmuzg(arbbrlxg.ubqrhbgbqkgabkkoa,gvagRgvl gvgxzuvb
fvltgfkzugkpgsag k),gvzug vlxuzksa,gpkkoram,gvl grfwkzbslvbu;gbmuaugvzu
bmutgbmvbgbzks.ougbmugqkzo jggVl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgR,gpkzgftgkql
wvzb,gzubzuvbgvagfsimgvagRgivlgbkqvz agbmugprzabgvl glvbszvogabvbrkl,
qmuliugRgakgnvrlotgvbbufwbu gbkgv nvliuj

Wkwsovzgvl gwszuotglvbszvogwkuat

ggggg[“Bmugbuzfgwkuarugwkwsovrzugqvagufwoktu ,gpkzgbmugprzabgbrfu,grlgbmu
gggggPzulimgovlxsvxugklgbmragkiivarkljggFklbvrxlugizuvbu gbmuguhwzuaarkl,
gggggvl grl rivbu grbaglvbszuj”--Vfwuzuj]

mvagrlgrbgiuzbvrlgvzbouaagxzviua,g.tgqmrimgamugfvtgikfugrlbkgikfwvzrakl
qrbmgbmugxzuvbuabg.uvsbtgkpgwkubztgwuzpuibu g.tgvzb:gvagqugauugrlgksz
Xvaiklgnroovluoagvl gbmugaklxagbmvbgvzug.zksxmbgsagpzkfglvbrklagbmvbgmvnu
lkgclkqou xugkpgvltgfvlluzgkpgairuliu,glkzgakgfsimgvagbmugsaugkpgqzrbrlxj
Bmugfr  ougakzbgkpgwkuatg.ubqrhbgbmuaugbqkgrag uawrau ,gkpglkgnvosu,
mklksz,gkzguabuufj

.sbgauurlxgbmvbgbmugwvbmgkliugovr gkwulgbkgbmugpvlit,gRgmvnugpksl ,gvagrb
ikffklotgpvooagksb,gbmvbgqmvbgqugmvnugbvculgpkzgvg rpprisobguhuziraugvl 
vgzvzugas.yuib,gwzknugbkg.uglkbmrlxgak,gvl gbmvbgvpbuzgbmugrlnulbrklgra
kliugqvzf,grbgprl agksbgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgwvzvoouoguhvfwouajggRgamvoo
klotgv  gbmragklu--bmvb,gquzugbmuaugUaavtagkpgfrlugiklar uzv.ougulksxmgbk
 uauznugvgizrbrivogys xfulb,grbgfrxmbgbmul,gRgbmrlc,gpvoogksbgbmvbgbmut
qkso glkbgfsimgbvcugqrbmgikffklgvl gnsoxvzgivwvirbrua,glkzg.ugnuzt
viiuwbv.ougbkgbmugarlxsovzgvl guhiuooulbgakzbgkpgful;gbmugprzabgqkso glkb
sl uzabvl gbmufgulksxm,gvl gbmugovabgbkkgfsim;gvl gakgbmutgfvtgmknuzgrl
bmugfr  ougzuxrklj



IMVWBUZgON

KPgAFUOOA

Rbgmvag.uulgzuwkzbu gkpgakfu,gvagkpgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gbmvbgbmurzgaquvb
uhmvou gvlgk kzrpuzksagafuoo,gkiivarklu g.tgakfugzvzugvl guhbzvkz rlvzt
iklabrbsbrkl,gkpgqmrimgWosbvzimgvl gkbmuzagmvnug.uulgrlesrarbrnugrlbkgbmu
ivsaujgg.sbgbmugkz rlvztgiklabrbsbrklgkpgmsfvlg.k ruagragesrbugkbmuzqrau,
vl gbmurzg.uabgvl gimrupuabguhiuooulitgragbkg.uguhufwbgpzkfgafuoojggLvt,
bmugaquubluaagunulgkpgbmugwszuabg.zuvbmgmvaglkbmrlxgrlgrbgkpgxzuvbuz
wuzpuibrklgbmvlgbkg.ugqrbmksbgvltgkppularnugafuoo,gorcugbmkaugkp
muvobmpsogimro zul,gqmrimgfv ugWovsbsagavtgkpgvgqkfvl:

ggggggggggggggg“Fsoruzgbsfg.ulugkoub,gs.rglrmrogkoubj”

gggggggggg[“Amugafuooagaquubuab,gqmkgafuooaglkbgvbgvooj”
ggggggggggg--Wovsbsa,gFkabuo,grjg3,g116j]

Vl gasimgvagfvcugsaugkpgprluguhkbrigwuzpsfuagvzugqrbmgxkk gzuvaklgbkg.u
asawuibu gkpgakfuglvbszvogrfwuzpuibrklgqmrimgbmutgul uvnkszg.tgbmuau
k kszagbkgikliuvojggBkgafuoo,gbmksxmgquoo,gragbkgabrlc:

gggggggggggggg“Zr uaglka,gIkzvirlu,glrogkoulbua
gggggggggggggggFvok,gesvfg.ulugkouzu,glrogkouzuj”

ggggg[“Tksgovsxmgvbgsa,gIkzvirlsa,g.uivsaugqugvzuglkbgaiulbu ;gRgqkso ,
gggggzvbmuzgbmvlgafuoogquoo,glkbgafuoogvbgvooj”--Fvzbrvo,gnrjg55,g4j]

Vl guoauqmuzu:

gggggggggg“Wkabmsfu,glklg.ulugkoub,gesrg.ulugaufwuzgkoubj”

ggggg[“Wkabmsfsa,gmugqmkgunuzgafuooagquoog kuaglkbgafuoogquooj”
gggggg--R uf,grrjg12,g14j]

Rgvfglunuzbmuouaagvgxzuvbgoknuzgkpgxkk gafuooa,gvl gvagfsimgv.kfrlvbugbmu
roogklua,gqmrimgvoakgRgaiulbgvbgvgxzuvbuzg rabvliu,gRgbmrlc,gbmvlgkbmuz
ful:

gggggggggggggg“Lvfesugavxvirsagslsagk kzkz,
gggggggggggggggWkotwsa,gvlgxzvnragmrzasbragis.ubgmrzisagrlgvorra
gggggggggggggggEsvfgivlragviuz,gs.rgovbuabgasaj”

ggggg[“Ftglkaugragesricuzgbkgaiulbgvgpubr gakzugkzgvgzvlcgvzfwrb,gbmvlgv
ggggg kxgbkgafuoogksbgbmugmr  ulgakqj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,ghrrjgg4j]

Kpgafuooa,gbmugarfwougvl glvbszvogauufgbkgfugbmugfkabgwouvarlxjggOubgbmu
ov ruagokkcgbkgbmvb,gpkzg‘bragimrupotgbmurzgikliuzl:gvfr gbmugfkab
wzkpksl g.vz.vzraf,gbmugAitbmrvlgqkful,gvpbuzg.vbmrlx,gquzugqklbgbk
wkq uzgvl gizsabgbmurzgpviuagvl gvoogbmurzg.k ruagqrbmgvgiuzbvrl
k kzrpuzksag zsxgxzkqrlxgrlgbmurzgikslbzt,gqmrimg.urlxgiouvlau gkpp,gqmul
bmutgivfugbkgmvnugpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgfulgbmutgquzugpksl gwuzpsfu gvl 
aouucjgg‘Braglkbgbkg.ug.uorunu gmkqgabzvlxuotgvoogakzbagkpgk kszagiouvnu
bkgfu,gvl gmkqgvwbgftgacrlgragbkgrf.r.ugbmufjggMugbmvbgikfwovrlagkp
lvbszugbmvbgamugmvaglkbgpszlramu gfvlcrl gqrbmgvgnumriougbkgiklnutgafuooa
bkgbmuglkaugmv glkgzuvakl;gpkzgbmutgqroog kgrbgbmufauonua,guawuirvootgbk
fu;gftgnuztgfsabvimrka,gqmrimgvzugpsoo,gwuzpkzfgbmvbgkppriu;gpkzgrpgR
abzkcugbmufg.sbgqrbmgftgxoknuagkzgmvl cuzimrup,gbmugafuoogqrooglkbgksbgv
qmkoug vt;gbmutgfvlrpuabgqmuzugRgmvnug.uul,gvl gbmugiokau,gosairksa,
 unkszrlx,gnrair gfuobrlxgcraauagkpgtksbmpsogvz kszgrlgftgqvlbklgvxugoupb
vgaquubluaagswklgftgorwagpkzgaunuzvogmkszagvpbuzjggVl gtubgRgmvnugunuz
pksl gftauopgorbbougas.yuibgbkguwr ufrig rauvaua,gbmvbgvzugivsxmb,gurbmuz
.tgiklnuzarlxgqrbmgbmugaricgkzg.zu g.tgbmugiklbvxrklgkpgbmugvrz,gvl gmvnu
uaivwu gpzkfgbmkaugkpgftgbrfu,gkpgqmrimgbmuzugmvnug.uulgaunuzvogakzbagrl
kszgirbruagvl gvzfruajggQugzuv gkpgAkizvbua,gbmvbgbmksxmgmuglunuz
 uwvzbu gpzkfgVbmulag szrlxgbmugpzuesulbgwovxsuagbmvbgrlpuabu gbmugirbt,
mugklotgqvaglunuzgrlpuibu j

Wmtarirvlagfrxmb,gRg.uorunu,guhbzvibgxzuvbuzgsbrorbtgpzkfgk kszagbmvl
bmutg k,gpkzgRgmvnugkpbulgk.auznu gbmvbgbmutgivsaugvlgvobuzvbrklgrlgfu
vl gqkzcgswklgftgawrzrbagviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgaunuzvognrzbsua;gqmrimgfvcua
fugvwwzknugkpgqmvbgragavr ,gbmvbgbmugsaugkpgrliulaugvl gwuzpsfuagrl
imszimua,gakgvlirulbgvl gakgslrnuzavootgzuiurnu grlgvooglvbrklagvl 
zuorxrkla,gqvagrlbul u gbkgimuuzgsa,gvl gbkgzksaugvl gwszrptgbmugaulaua,
bmug.ubbuzgbkgprbgsagpkzgiklbufwovbrklj

Rgikso gmvnug.uulgxov ,gbmug.ubbuzgbkgys xugkpgrb,gbkgmvnugbvabu gbmu
isorlvztgvzbgkpgbmkaugikkcagqmkgmv gakgzvzugvgqvtgkpgauvaklrlxguhkbri
k kszagqrbmgbmugzuoramgkpgfuvba;gvagrbgqvagwvzbrisovzotgk.auznu grlgbmu
auznriugkpgbmugcrlxgkpgBslra,gqmkgrlgkszg vta--[Fsout-Mvaavf,grlg1543j]
--ovl u gvbgLvwouagbkgmvnugvlgrlbuznruqgqrbmgImvzouagbmugUfwuzkzjggMra
 ramuagquzugovz u gqrbmgk kzrpuzksag zsxa,gbkgbmvbg uxzuugkpguhwulaugbmvb
bmugikkcuztgkpgklugwuvikicgvl gbqkgwmuvavlbagvfkslbu gbkgvgmsl zu g sivba
bkg zuaagbmufgvpbuzgbmurzgpvamrkl;gvl gqmulgbmugivznuzgivfugbkgisbgbmuf
sw,glkbgklotgbmug rlrlx-zkkf,g.sbgvoogbmugvwvzbfulbagkpgmragwvoviugvl 
bmugv ykrlrlxgabzuubagquzugproou gqrbmgvlgvzkfvbrignvwkszgqmrimg r glkb
wzuaulbotgnvlramj

Ftgimrupuabgivzugrlgimkkarlxgftgok xrlxagragvoqvtagbkgvnkr gvgbmricgvl 
abrlcrlxgvrz;gvl gbmkaug.uvsbrpsogirbrua,gNulriugvl gWvzra,gnuztgfsim
ouaaulgbmugcrl luaagRgmvnugpkzgbmuf,gbmugklug.tgbmugkppularnugafuoogkp
muzgfvzamua,gvl gbmugkbmuzgkpgmuzg rzbj




IMVWBUZgONR

KPgWZVTUZA

Rgwzkwkaugpkzfouaagvl gsl ubuzfrlu gpvlirua,gorcugbmkaugqmkgws.oram
 ks.bpsogesuabrkla,gbkg.ugvpbuzgvg rawsbu gswklgrlgbmugaimkkoa,glkbgbk
uabv.oramgbzsbmg.sbgbkgauucgrb;gvl gRgas.frbgbmufgbkgbmugys xfulbagkp
bmkaugqmkaugkppriugrbgragbkgzuxsovbu,glkbgftgqzrbrlxagvl gvibrklagklot,
.sbgfkzuknuzgftgnuztgbmksxmbajggOubgqmvbgRgmuzugaubg kqlgfuubgqrbm
ikzzuibrklgkzgvwwovsau,grbgamvoog.ugkpguesvogquoikfugvl gsbrorbtgbkgfu,
ftauopg.upkzumvl gikl uflrlxgvagv.asz gvl grfwrksa,grpgvltbmrlxgamvoog.u
pksl ,gbmzksxmgrxlkzvliugkzgrlv nuzbulit,giksimu grlgbmragzmvwak t,
iklbzvztgbkgbmugmkotgzuakosbrklagvl gwzuaizrwbrklagkpgbmugIvbmkori
Vwkabkorigvl gZkfvlgImszim,grlbkgqmrimgRgqvag.kzlgvl grlgqmrimgRgqroo
 rujggVl gtub,gvoqvtagas.frbbrlxgbkgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzgiulaszu,gqmrim
mvagvlgv.akosbugwkquzgknuzgfu,gRgbmsagzvamotgnulbszugvbgunuztbmrlx,gvagrl
bzuvbrlxgswklgbmragwzuaulbgas.yuibj

RgclkqglkbgrpgkzglkgRgvfgqzklx,g.sbgarliu,g.tgvgwvzbrisovzgpvnkszgkpgbmu
 rnrlug.kslbt,gvgiuzbvrlgpkzfgkpgwzvtuzgmvag.uulgwzuaizr.u gvl g ribvbu 
bkgsa,gqkz g.tgqkz ,gpzkfgbmugfksbmgkpgXk gMrfauop,gRgmvnugunuzg.uulgkp
kwrlrklgbmvbgqugksxmbgbkgmvnugrbgrlgfkzugpzuesulbgsaugbmvlgqugtubgmvnu;
vl grpgRgquzugqkzbmtgbkgv nrau,gvbgbmugarbbrlxg kqlgbkgvl gzrarlxgpzkf
kszgbv.oua,gvbgkszgzrarlxgpzkfgvl gxkrlxgbkg.u ,gvl grlgunuztgwvzbrisovz
vibrklgqmuzurlgwzvtuzgragsau ,gRgqkso gbmvbgImzrabrvlagvoqvtagfvcugsaugkp
bmugOkz ’agWzvtuz,grpglkbgvoklu,gtubgvbgouvabgvoqvtajggBmugImszimgfvt
oulxbmulgvl g rnuzarptgwzvtuza,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugluiuaarbtgkpgksz
rlabzsibrkl,gpkzgRgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgrbgragvoqvtagbmugavfugrlgas.abvliu
vl gbmugavfugbmrlx:g.sbgtubgasimgvgwzrnrouxugksxmbgbkg.ugxrnulgbkgbmvb
wzvtuz,gbmvbgbmugwukwougamkso gmvnugrbgiklbrlsvootgrlgbmurzgfksbma;gpkz
rbgragfkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgvoogluiuaavztgwubrbrklagvzugikfwzumul u grlgrb,
vl gbmvbgrbgragrlprlrbuotgwzkwuzgpkzgvoogkiivarklajgg‘Bragbmugklotgwzvtuz
Rgsaugrlgvoogwoviuagvl gikl rbrkla,gvl gqmrimgRgabroogzuwuvbgrlabuv gkp
imvlxrlx;gqmuliugrbgvoakgmvwwulagbmvbgRgmvnuglkgkbmuzgakgulbrzuotg.t
muvzbgvagbmvbj

Rbgysabglkqgivfugrlbkgftgfrl ,gqmuliugrbgragqugamkso g uzrnugbmvbguzzkz
kpgmvnrlxgzuikszaugbkgXk grlgvoogkszg uarxlagvl gulbuzwzraua,gbkgivoogMrf
bkgkszgvaarabvliugrlgvoogakzbagkpgvppvrza,gvl grlgvoogwoviuagqmuzugksz
quvcluaagabvl agrlgluu gkpgaswwkzb,gqrbmksbgiklar uzrlxgqmubmuzgbmu
kiivarklg.ugysabgkzgkbmuzqrau;gvl gbkgrlnkcugMraglvfugvl gwkquz,grlgqmvb
abvbugakunuzgqugvzu,gkzgvibrklgqugvzugulxvxu grl,gmkqakunuzgnrirksajggMu
ragrl uu ,gkszgakougvl gslresugwzkbuibkz,gvl givlg kgvoogbmrlxagpkzgsa:
.sbgbmksxmgMugragwouvau gbkgmklkszgsagqrbmgbmragaquubgwvbuzlvogvoorvliu,
Mugra,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvagysabgvagMugragxkk gvl gfrxmbt;gvl gfkzugkpbul
uhuzirauagMragysabriugbmvlgMragwkquz,gvl gpvnkszagsagviikz rlxgbkgbmvb,
vl glkbgviikz rlxgbkgkszgwubrbrklaj

WovbkgrlgmragOvqa,gfvcuagbmzuugakzbagkpg.uorupgrlyszrksagbkgbmugxk a;
“bmvbgbmuzugvzuglklu;gbmvbgbmutgikliuzlglkbgbmufauonuagv.ksbgkszgvppvrza;
bmvbgbmutglunuzgzupsaugvltbmrlxgbkgkszgnkqa,gkppuzrlxa,gvl gavizrpriuaj”
gBmugprzabgkpgbmuauguzzkzag(viikz rlxgbkgmragkwrlrkl,glunuzgiklbrlsu 
zkkbu grlgvltgfvlgpzkfgmragrlpvlitgbkgmragko gvxu);gbmugkbmuzgbqk,gmu
iklpuaaua,gfulgfrxmbg.ugk.abrlvbugrlj

Xk ’agysabriugvl gMragwkquzgvzugrlauwvzv.ou;g‘bragrlgnvrlgqugrlnkcugMra
wkquzgrlgvlgslysabgivsaujggQugvzugbkgmvnugkszgaksoagwszugvl giouvl,gvb
bmvbgfkfulbgvbgouvabgqmuzurlgqugwzvtgbkgMrf,gvl gwszrpru gpzkfgvoo
nrirksagwvaarkla;gkbmuzqraugqugkszauonuagwzuaulbgMrfgbmugzk agqmuzuqrbm
bkgimvabraugsa;grlabuv gkpgzuwvrzrlxgvltbmrlxgqugmvnug klugvfraa,gqu
 ks.ougbmugqricu luaagvl gbmugkppuliugqmulgqugkppuzgbkgMrf,gbkgqmkfgqu
vzugbkgasugpkzgwvz kl,gvlgvppuibrklgpsoogkpgrzzunuzuliugvl gmvbzu j
Qmrimgfvcuagfuglkbgnuztgvwbgbkgvwwovs gbmkaugqmkfgRgk.auznugbkg.ugak
pzuesulbgklgbmurzgcluua,grpgbmugvibrklagluvzuabgbkgbmugwzvtuzg kglkbgxrnu
fugakfugunr uliugkpgvful fulbgvl gzupkzfvbrkl:

gggggggggggggg“Ar,glkibszlsagv sobuz,
gggggggggggggggBufwkzvgAvlbklrikgnuovagv kwuzbvgisisookj”

ggggg[“Rpgvglrxmbgv sobuzuz,gbmksgiknuzuabgbmtgmuv gqrbmgvgAvlbklri
gggggikqoj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,gnrrrjgg144j--BmugAvlbkluagquzugbmugwukwou
gggggqmkgrlmv.rbu gAvrlbklxugrlgPzvliu,gpzkfgqmkfgbmugZkfvlag uzrnu gbmu
gggggsaugkpgmkk agkzgikqoagiknuzrlxgbmugmuv gvl gpviuj]

Vl gbmugwzvibriugkpgvgfvlgqmkgfrhuag unkbrklgqrbmgvlguhuizv.ougorpugauufa
rlgakfugakzbgfkzugbkg.ugikl uflu gbmvlgbmvbgkpgvgfvlgiklpkzfv.ougbkgmra
kqlgwzkwularklgvl g raakosbugbmzksxmksb;gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgrbgragbmvb
kszgImszimg ulruagv frbbvliugbkgvl gikffslrklgqrbmgfulgk.abrlvbugvl 
rlikzzrxr.ougrlgvltglkbkzrksagqricu luaajggQugwzvtgklotg.tgisabkfgvl gpkz
pvamrkl’agavcu;gkzgzvbmuz,gqugzuv gkzgwzklksliugkszgwzvtuzagvoks ,gqmrim
raglkg.ubbuzgbmvlgvlgmtwkizrbrivogamkqgkpg unkbrkl;gvl gRgvfgaivl vorau 
bkgauugvgfvlgizkaagmrfauopgbmzriugvbgbmug.ulu rirbu,gvl gvagkpbulgvb
Xzviug(vl gbmugfkzu,g.uivsaugrbgragvgarxlgRgmvnugrlgxzuvbgnuluzvbrklgvl 
iklbrlsvogsau,gunulgqmulgRgtvql),gvl gbkg u rivbugvoogbmugkbmuzgmkszagkp
bmug vtgbkgvibagkpgfvoriu,gvnvzriu,gvl grlysabriujggKlugmkszgbkgXk ,gbmu
zuabgbkgbmug unro,gvagrpg.tgikfwkarbrklgvl gikfwulavbrkljgg‘Bragvgqkl uz
bkgauugvibrklagakgnvzrksagrlgbmufauonuagasiiuu gklugvlkbmuzgqrbmgasimgvl
slrpkzfrbtgkpgfubmk gvaglkbgbkgrlbuzpuzuglkzgasppuzgvltgvobuzvbrkl,gunul
swklgbmugnuztgiklprluagvl gwvaauagpzkfgbmugklugbkgbmugkbmuzjggQmvbgv
wzk rxrksagiklairuliugfsabgbmvbg.ugbmvbgivlg.ugvbgesrubgqrbmrlgrbauop
qmroabgrbgmvz.kszagsl uzgbmugavfugzkkp,gqrbmgakgvxzuurlxgvl gakgivofgv
akirubt,g.kbmgbmugizrfugvl gbmugys xu?

Vgfvlgqmkaugqmkougfu rbvbrklgragiklbrlsvootgqkzcrlxgswklglkbmrlxg.sb
rfwszrbtgqmrimgmugclkqagbkg.ugakgk rksagbkgVofrxmbtgXk ,gqmvbgivlgmugavt
qmulgmugikfuagbkgawuvcgbkgMrf?ggMug zvqag.vic,g.sbgrffu rvbuotgpvooagrlbk
vgzuovwaujggRpgbmugk.yuibgkpg rnrlugysabriugvl gbmugwzuauliugkpgmragFvcuz
 r ,gvagmugwzubul a,gabzrcugvl gimvabraugmragakso,gmkqgamkzbgakunuzgbmu
zuwulbvliugfrxmbg.u,gbmugnuztgpuvzgkpgkppul rlxgbmugRlprlrbugFvyuabt
qkso gakgkpbulgwzuaulbgrbauopgbkgmragrfvxrlvbrklgbmvbgmugqkso gakklgauu
mrfauopgfvabuzgkpgbmkaugnriuagbmvbgvzugfkabglvbszvogvl gnumufulbgrlgmrfj
.sbgqmvbgamvoogqugavtgkpgbmkaugqmkgaubbougbmurzgqmkougikszaugkpgorpugswkl
bmugwzkprbgvl gufkosfulbgkpgarla,gqmrimgbmutgclkqgbkg.ugfkzbvo?ggMkqgfvlt
bzv uagvl gnkivbrklagmvnugqugv frbbu gvl gikslbulvliu gvfklxabgsa,gqmkau
nuztguaauliugragnrirksa?ggVl gmugbmvb,giklpuaarlxgmrfauopgbkgfu,
nkoslbvzrotgbko gfugbmvbgmugmv gvoogmragorpubrfugwzkpuaau gvl gwzvibrau 
vgzuorxrkl,grlgmragkwrlrklg vflv.ougvl giklbzvztgbkgbmvbgmugmv grlgmra
muvzb,gklotgbkgwzuauznugmragizu rbgvl gbmugmklkszgkpgmragufwoktfulba,gmkq
ikso gmragikszvxugasppuzgakgrlpvfksagvgiklpuaarkl?ggQmvbgivlgfulgavtgbk
bmug rnrlugysabriugswklgbmragas.yuib?

Bmurzgzuwulbvliugiklarabrlxgrlgvgnrar.ougvl gfvlrpuabgzuwvzvbrkl,gbmut
okaugbmugikokszgkpgvoouxrlxgrbg.kbmgbkgXk gvl gfvljggVzugbmutgakgrfws ulb
vagbkgasugpkzgzufraarklgqrbmksbgavbrapvibrklgvl gqrbmksbgwulrbuliu?
Rgokkcgswklgbmuaugvagrlgbmugavfugikl rbrklgqrbmgbmugprzab:g.sbgbmu
k.abrlvitgraglkbgbmuzugakguvatgbkg.ugknuzikfujggBmragiklbzvzrubtgvl 
nkos.rorbtgkpgkwrlrklgakgas  ul,gakgnrkoulb,gbmvbgbmutgpurxl,gvzugvgcrl 
kpgfrzviougbkgfu:gbmutgwzuaulbgsagqrbmgbmugabvbugkpgvlgrl rxuabr.ougvxklt
kpgfrl j

Rbgauufu gbkgfugvgpvlbvabrigrfvxrlvbrklgrlgbmkaugqmk,gbmuaugovbugtuvza
wvab,gquzugqklbgbkgzuwzkvimgunuztgfvlgbmutgcluqgbkg.ugkpgvlt
uhbzvkz rlvztgwvzba,gvl gfv ugwzkpuaarklgkpgbmugIvbmkorigzuorxrkl,gbmvb
rbgqvag.sbgksbqvz ot;gfvrlbvrlrlx,gfkzuknuz,gbkg kgmrfgmklkszgpkzakkbm,
bmvbgqmvbunuzgmugfrxmbgwzubul gbkgbmugiklbzvztgmugikso glkbg.sbgrlgmra
muvzbg.ugkpgbmurzgzupkzfu gkwrlrkljggVlgslbkqvz g rauvau,gbmvbgvgfvl
amkso g.ugakgzrnubu gbkgmragkqlg.uorupgvagbkgpvlitgbmvbgkbmuzagivllkb
.uorunugkbmuzqraugbmvlgvagmug kua;gvl gtubgqkzau,gbmvbgbmutgamkso 
ulbuzbvrlgakgnrirksagvlgkwrlrklgkpgasimgxzuvbgwvzbagvagbkgbmrlcgvltgfvl
akgesvorpru ,gamkso gwzupuzgvltgwzuaulbgv nvlbvxugkpgpkzbslugbkgbmu
wzkfrauagkpgubuzlvogorpugvl gbmugfulviuagkpgubuzlvog vflvbrkljggBmutgfvt
.uorunugfu:gikso gvltbmrlxgmvnugbufwbu gftgtksbm,gbmugvf.rbrklgkpgbmu
 vlxuzgvl g rpprisobruagrlgbmugovbugikffkbrklagmv glkbg.uulgbmugouvab
fkbrnuaj

Rbgraglkbgqrbmksbgnuztgxkk gzuvakl,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgbmugImszim
rlbuz ribagbmugwzkfraisksa,grl raizuub,gvl grzzunuzulbgsaugkpgbmugmkot
vl g rnrlugWavofa,gqrbmgqmrimgbmugMkotgXmkabgrlawrzu gCrlxg vnr jggQu
ksxmbglkbgbkgfrhgXk grlgkszgvibrkla,g.sbgqrbmgbmugmrxmuabgzunuzuliugvl 
ivsbrkl;gbmvbgwkuatgragbkkgmkotgbkg.ugwsbgbkglkgkbmuzgsaugbmvlgbk
uhuziraugbmugoslxagvl gbkg uorxmbgkszguvza;grbgksxmbgbkgikfugpzkfgbmu
iklairuliu,gvl glkbgpzkfgbmugbklxsujggRbgraglkbgprbgbmvbgvgwzulbriugrl
mragamkw,gvfklxabgmragnvrlgvl gpzrnkoksagbmksxmba,gamkso g.ugwuzfrbbu gbk
wvaagvqvtgmragbrfugvl g rnuzbgmrfauopgqrbmgasimgavizu gbmrlxajggLurbmuz
ragrbg uiulbgbkgauugbmugMkotg.kkcgkpgbmugmkotgftabuzruagkpgkszg.uorup
bsf.ou gswgvl g kqlgvgmvoogkzgvgcrbimulgbmutgquzugpkzfuzotgftabuzrua,g.sb
vzuglkqg.uikfugawkzbagvl gzuizuvbrklajgg‘Bragvg.kkcgbkkgauzrksagvl gbkk
nuluzv.ougbkg.ugiszakzrotgkzgaorxmbotgbszlu gknuz:gbmugzuv rlxgkpgbmu
aizrwbszugksxmbgbkg.ugvgbufwuzvbugvl gwzufu rbvbu gvib,gvl gbkgqmrimgful
amkso gvoqvtagv  gbmrag unksbgwzupviu,g‘aszasfgikz v’,gwzuwvzrlxgunulgbmu
.k tgbkgakgmsf.ougvl gikfwkau gvgxuabszugvl gikslbulvliugvagamvoo
unr uliugvgwvzbrisovzgnuluzvbrklgvl gvbbulbrkljggLurbmuzgragrbgvg.kkcgpkz
unuztklugbkgprab,g.sbgbmugabs tgkpgauouibgfulgaubgvwvzbgpkzgbmvbgwszwkau,
vl gqmkfgVofrxmbtgXk gmvag.uulgwouvau gbkgivoogbkgbmvbgkppriugvl gavizu 
pslibrkl:gbmugqricu gvl grxlkzvlbgxzkqgqkzaug.tgrbjgg‘Bra,glkbgvgabkztgbk
buoo,g.sbgvgmrabkztgbkgzunuzu,gpuvz,gvl gv kzujggVzuglkbgbmutgbmul
wouvavlbgfulgqmkgbmrlcgbmutgmvnugzul uzu gbmragprbgpkzgbmugwukwou’a
mvl orlxg.tgbzvlaovbrlxgrbgrlbkgbmugnsoxvzgbklxsu?gg kuagbmu
sl uzabvl rlxgkpgvoogbmuzurlgiklbvrlu gklotgabricgvbgqkz a?ggAmvoogR
nulbszugbkgavtgpszbmuz,gbmvbg.tgikfrlxgakgluvzgbkgsl uzabvl gvgorbbou,
bmutgvzugfsimgqr uzgkpgbmugqmkougaikwugbmvlg.upkzujggVgwszugvl garfwou
rxlkzvliugvl gqmkootg uwul rlxgswklgbmuguhwkarbrklgkpgesvorpru gwuzakla,
qvagpvzgfkzugouvzlu gvl gavosbvztgbmvlgbmragnvrlgvl gnuz.vogclkqou xu,
qmrimgmvagklotgbufuzrbtgvl gwzuasfwbrklj

Vl gRg kgpszbmuzg.uorunugbmvbgbmugor.uzbtgunuztgklugmvagbvculgbkg rawuzau
bmugavizu gqzrbgrlbkgakgfvltgr rkfagivzzruagqrbmgrbgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugkp
 vlxuzgbmvlgsbrorbtjggBmugYuqa,gFkmvffu vla,gvl gvofkabgvoogkbmuz
wukwoua,gmvnugzunuzulbrvootguawksau gbmugovlxsvxugqmuzurlgbmurzgftabuzrua
quzugprzabgikliurnu ,gvl gmvnuguhwzuaaot,gvl glkbgqrbmksbgikokszgkp
zuvakl,gpkz.r  ulgbmugvobuzvbrklgkpgbmufgrlbkgvltgkbmuzjggVzugqugvaaszu 
bmvbgrlg.raivtgvl grlg.zrbbvltgbmuzugvzugulksxmgikfwubulbgys xuagkpgbmra
vppvrzgbkguabv.oramgbmragbzvlaovbrklgrlbkgbmurzgkqlgovlxsvxu?ggBmu
slrnuzavogImszimgmvaglkbgvgfkzug rpprisobgvl gakouflgys xfulbgbkgfvcuj
Rlgwzuvimrlxgvl gawuvcrlxgbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgragnvxsu,gpzuu,gfsbv.ou,gvl 
kpgvgwruiug.tgrbauop;gakg‘braglkbgbmugavfugbmrlxj

KlugkpgkszgXzuucgmrabkzrvlagvxugysabotgiulaszuagbmugmugornu grl,g.uivsau
bmugauizubagkpgbmugImzrabrvlgzuorxrklgquzug rawuzau grlbkgbmugmvl agkp
unuztgfuimvlri,gbkguhwksl gvl gvzxsugswkl,gviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgpvlit,
vl gbmvbgqugksxmbgbkg.ugfsimgvamvfu ,gqugqmkg.tgXk ’aguawuirvogpvnksz
ulyktgbmugwszugftabuzruagkpgwrubt,gbkgasppuzgbmufgbkg.ugwzkpvlu g.tgbmu
rxlkzvlbgzv..ou;giklar uzrlxgbmvbgbmugXulbrouaguhwzuaaotgpkz.v gAkizvbua,
Wovbk,gvl gbmugkbmuzgavxuagbkgrlesrzugrlbkgkzgakgfsimgvagfulbrklgbmu
bmrlxagikffrbbu gbkgbmugwzruabagkpg uowmr;gvl gmugavta,gfkzuknuz,gbmvb
bmugpvibrklagkpgwzrliuagswklgbmukokxrivogas.yuibagvzugvzfu glkbgqrbmgduvo
.sbgpszt;gbmvbgduvogawzrlxagpzkfgbmug rnrlugqra kfgvl gysabriu,gvl 
xknuzlagrbauopgqrbmgwzs uliugvl gfk uzvbrkl,g.sbg uxuluzvbuagrlbkgmvbzu 
vl gulnt,gwzk sirlxgbvzuagvl glubbouagrlabuv gkpgikzlgvl gqrlugqmul
ikl sibu g.tgmsfvlgwvaarklajggVl grbgqvagbzsotgavr g.tgvlkbmuz,gqmk,
v nrarlxgbmugUfwuzkzgBmuk karsa,gbko gmrfgbmvbg rawsbuag r glkbgakgfsim
zkicgbmugaimrafagkpgbmugImszimgvaouuw,gvagrbgzksau gvl gvlrfvbu 
muzuarua;gbmvb,gbmuzupkzu,gvoogiklbulbrklagvl g rvouibrig rawsbvbrkla
quzugbkg.ugvnkr u ,gvl gfulgv.akosbuotgbkgviesruaiugrlgbmugwzuaizrwbrkla
vl gpkzfsovagkpgpvrbmguabv.oramu g.tgbmugvlirulbajggVl gbmugUfwuzkz
Vl zklrisagmvnrlxgknuzmuvz gakfugxzuvbgfulgvbgmrxmgqkz agrlgmragwvoviu
qrbmgOvwk rsagv.ksbgvgwkrlbgkpgkszagkpgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliu,gxvnugbmufgak
aunuzugvgimuicgvagbkgbmzuvbulgbkgivsaugbmufgbkg.ugbmzkqlgrlbkgbmugzrnuz
rpgbmutg r glkbg uarabjggBmugnuztgqkfulgvl gimro zulglkqv vtagbvcugswkl
bmufgbkgouibszugbmugko uabgvl gfkabguhwuzruliu gfulgv.ksbgbmu
uiiouarvabrivogovqa;gqmuzuvagbmugprzabgkpgbmkaugkpgWovbkgpkz.r agbmufgbk
rlesrzugakgfsimgvagrlbkgbmugirnrogovqa,gqmrimgquzugbkgabvl grlabuv gkp
 rnrlugkz rlvliua;gvl ,gvookqrlxgbmugko gfulgbkgiklpuzgvfklxabgbmufauonua
kzgqrbmgbmugfvxrabzvbugv.ksbgbmkaugbmrlxa,gmugv  a,gwzknr u grbg.uglkbgrl
bmugwzuauliugkpgtkslxgkzgwzkpvlugwuzaklaj

Vg.ramkwgmvagoupbgrlgqzrbrlxgbmvbgvbgbmugkbmuzgul gkpgbmugqkzo gbmuzugra
vlgraou,g.tgbmugvlirulbagivoou g rkaikzr ua,gv.sl vlbotgpuzbrougrlgvoo
akzbagkpgbzuuagvl gpzsrba,gvl gkpgvlguhiuu rlxotgmuvobmpsogvrz;gbmu
rlmv.rbvlbagkpgqmrimgvzugImzrabrvla,gmvnrlxgimszimuagvl gvobvza,gklot
v kzlu gqrbmgizkaauagqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgrfvxua,gxzuvbgk.auznuzagkpgpvaba
vl gpuvaba,guhvibgwvtuzagkpgbmurzgbrbmuagbkgbmugwzruaba,gvl gakgimvabu,
bmvbglklugkpgbmufgragwuzfrbbu gbkgmvnugbkg kgqrbmgfkzugbmvlgklugqkfvlgrl
mragorpu--[QmvbgKakzrsagavtagragbmvbgbmuaugwukwougklotgmv gklugqrpugvbgv
brfuj]--vagbkgbmugzuab,gakgiklbulbgqrbmgbmurzgikl rbrkl,gbmvbgulnrzklu 
qrbmgbmugauvgbmutgclkqglkbmrlxgkpglvnrxvbrkl,gvl gakgarfwougbmvbgbmut
sl uzabvl glkbgklugatoov.ougkpgbmugzuorxrklgbmutgwzkpuaagvl gqmuzurlgbmut
vzugakg unksb:gvgbmrlxgrlizu r.ougbkgasimgvag kglkbgclkqgbmvbgbmugWvxvla,
qmkgvzugakgduvoksagr kovbuza,gclkqglkbmrlxgfkzugkpgbmurzgxk agbmvlgbmurz
.vzuglvfuagvl gbmurzgabvbsuajggBmugvlirulbg.uxrllrlxgkpg‘Fulvorwwsa’,gv
bzvxu tgkpgUszrwr ua,gzvlgbmsa:

ggggggggggggggg“KgYswrbuz!ggpkzgbmvbglvfugvoklu
gggggggggggggggKpgqmvbgbmksgvzbgbkgfugragclkqlj”

Rgmvnugvoakgclkqlgrlgftgbrfugakfugful’agqzrbrlxagpksl gpvsobgqrbmgpkz
.urlxgwszuotgmsfvlgvl gwmrokakwmrivo,gqrbmksbgvltgfrhbszugkpgbmukokxt;
vl gtub,gqrbmgakfugamkqgkpgzuvakl,grbgfrxmb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,g.ugavr 
bmvbgbmug rnrlug kibzrlu,gvagesuulgvl gzuxulbgkpgbmugzuab,g.ubbuzgcuuwa
muzgabvbugvwvzb,gbmvbgamugksxmbgbkg.ugaknuzurxlgbmzksxmksb,glkb
as.ar rvztgvl gasppzvxvl,gvl gbmvb,gwuzv nulbszu,gxzvffvbrivo,
zmubkzrivo,gokxrivoguhvfwouagfvtguoauqmuzug.ugfkzugasrbv.otgimkaul,gva
voakgbmugfvbuzrvogpkzgbmugabvxu,gxvfua,gvl gws.origulbuzbvrlfulba,gbmvl
pzkfgakgavizu gvgfvbbuz;gbmvbg rnrlugzuvaklagvzugiklar uzu gqrbmgxzuvbuz
nuluzvbrklgvl gvbbulbrklg.tgbmufauonua,gvl grlgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzgabtou,
bmvlgqmulgfrhu gqrbmgvl gv vwbu gbkgmsfvlg raikszau;gbmvbgrbgragvgpvsob
fsimgfkzugkpbulgk.auznu gbmvbgbmug rnrluagqzrbugbkkgmsfvlot,gbmvlgbmvb
bmugmsfvlrabagqzrbuglkbgbmukokxrivootgulksxmjggWmrokakwmt,gavtagAbj
Imztakabkf,gmvagoklxg.uulg.vlramu gbmugmkotgaimkkoa,gvagvlgmvl fvr 
vobkxubmuzgsauouaagvl gbmksxmbgslqkzbmtgbkgokkc,gakgfsimgvagrlgwvaarlx
.tgbmug kkz,grlbkgbmugavlibsvztgkpgbmugmkotgbzuvaszuagkpgbmugiuouabrvo
 kibzrlu;gbmvbgbmugmsfvlgqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgragkpgvgfsimgokquzgpkzfgvl 
ksxmbglkbgbkgv kwbgpkzgmuzauopgbmug rxlrbtgvl gfvyuabtgkpg rnrlu
uokesuliujggOubgqmkgqroog‘nuz.ragrl rairworlvbra’gbvocgkpgpkzbslu,
 uabrlt,gviir ulb,gxkk gvl gunrogmvw,gvl gkbmuzgasimorcugwmzvaua,
viikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgmsfksz;gRgpkzgftgwvzbgwzkwkaugpvliruagfuzuotgmsfvl
vl gfuzuotgftgkql,gvl gbmvbgarfwotgvagmsfvlgpvlirua,gvl gauwvzvbuot
iklar uzu ,glkbgvag ubuzfrlu g.tgvltg uizuugpzkfgmuvnul,grlivwv.ougkp
 ks.bgkzg rawsbu;gfvbbuzgkpgkwrlrkl,glkbgfvbbuzgkpgpvrbm;gbmrlxagqmrimgR
 raikszaugkpgviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlglkbrkla,glkbgvagRg.uorunu,gviikz rlxgbk
Xk ;gvpbuzgvgovrivo,glkbgiouzrivo,gvl gtubgvoqvtagvpbuzgvgnuztgzuorxrksa
fvlluz,gvagimro zulgwzuwvzugbmurzguhuziraua,glkbgbkgrlabzsibg.sbgbkg.u
rlabzsibu j

Vl gfrxmbgrbglkbg.ugavr ,gbmvbgvlgu ribgulykrlrlxgvoogwukwoug.sbgasimgva
vzugws.origwzkpuaakzagkpg rnrlrbt,gbkg.ugnuztgzuauznu grlgqzrbrlxgkp
zuorxrkl,gqkso givzztgqrbmgrbgvgnuztgxkk gikokszgkpgsbrorbtgvl gysabriu
--vl gbkgfu,gvfklxabgbmugzuabgwuzv nulbszu,gbkgmko gftgwzvbrlx?ggRgmvnu
.uulgbko gbmvbgunulgbmkaugqmkgvzuglkbgkpgkszgImszimglunuzbmuouaagvfklxab
bmufauonuaguhwzuaaotgpkz.r gbmuglvfugkpgXk gbkg.ugsau grlgikffkl
 raikszau,glkzgakgfsimgunulg.tgqvtgkpgrlbuzyuibrkl,guhiovfvbrkl,
vaauzbrklgkpgvgbzsbm,gkzgikfwvzrakl;gvl gRgbmrlcgbmufgrlgbmugzrxmb:gswkl
qmvbgkiivarklgakunuzgqugivoogswklgXk gbkgviikfwvltgvl gvaarabgsa,grb
ksxmbgvoqvtagbkg.ug klugqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgzunuzuliugvl g unkbrklj

Bmuzugra,gvagRgzufuf.uz,gvgwvaavxugrlgHulkwmklgqmuzugmugbuooagsagbmvbgqu
ksxmbgakgfsimgbmugfkzugauo kfgbkgivoogswklgXk ,g.tgmkqgfsimgrbgragmvz gbk
ikfwkaugkszgaksoagbkgasimgvg uxzuugkpgivofluaa,gwvbruliu,gvl g unkbrklgva
rbgksxmbgbkg.ugrlgvbgasimgvgbrfu;gkbmuzqraugkszgwzvtuzagvzuglkbgklotgnvrl
vl gpzsrbouaa,g.sbgnrirksa:g“pkzxrnugsa,”gqugavt,g“kszgbzuawvaaua,gvagqu
pkzxrnugbmufgbmvbgbzuawvaagvxvrlabgsa”;gqmvbg kgqugfuvlg.tgbmragwubrbrkl
.sbgbmvbgqugwzuaulbgbkgXk gvgaksogpzuugpzkfgvoogzvlikszgvl gzunulxu?ggVl 
tubgqugfvcuglkbmrlxgkpgrlnkcrlxgXk ’agvaarabvliugrlgkszgnriua,gvl 
rlnrbrlxgMrfgrlbkgkszgslysabg uarxla:

gggggggggg“Esvu,glrargau sibra,gluesuvagikffrbbuzug rnra”

ggggg[“Qmrimgtksgivlgklotgrfwvzbgbkgbmugxk a,gqmulgtksgmvnugxvrlu gbmuf
gggggknuzj”--Wuzarsa,grrjg4j]

bmugiknubksagfvlgwzvtagpkzgbmugiklauznvbrklgkpgmragnvrlgvl gaswuzposksa
zrimua;gbmugvf.rbrksagpkzgnribkztgvl gbmugxkk gikl sibgkpgmragpkzbslu;
bmugbmrupgivooagMrfgbkgmragvaarabvliu,gbkg uornuzgmrfgpzkfgbmug vlxuza
vl g rpprisobruagbmvbgk.abzsibgmragqricu g uarxla,gkzgzubszlagMrfgbmvlca
pkzgbmugpvirorbtgmugmvagfubgqrbmgrlgisbbrlxgvgfvl’agbmzkvb;gvbgbmug kkz
kpgbmugmksaugfulgvzugxkrlxgbkgabkzfgkzg.zuvcgrlbkg.tgpkziugkpgvgwubvz ,
bmutgpvoogbkgwzvtuzagpkzgasiiuaa,gbmurzgrlbulbrklagvl gmkwuagkpgizsuobt,
vnvzriu,gvl gosabj

ggggggggg“Mkigrxrbsz,geskgbkgYknragvszufgrfwuoouzugbulbva,
gggggggggg rigvxu sfgAbvrk:g‘wzkmgYswrbuz!ggKg.klu,giovfub,
ggggggggggYswrbuz!’ggVbgauauglklgiovfubgYswrbuzgrwauj”

ggggg[“Bmragbmuzupkzu,gqrbmgqmrimgtksgauucgbkg zvqgbmuguvzgkpgYswrbuz,
gggggavtgbkgAbvrsajgg‘KgYswrbuz!ggKgxkk gYswrbuz!’goubgmrfgiztjggBmrlc
gggggtksgYswrbuzgmrfauopgqkso glkbgiztgksbgswklgrb?”--Wuzarsa,grrjg21j]

Fvzxsuzrbu,gEsuulgkpgLvnvzzu,--[RlgbmugMuwbvfuzklj]--buooagkpgvgtkslx
wzrliu,gqmk,gbmksxmgamug kuaglkbglvfugmrf,graguvarotgulksxmg.tgmragxzuvb
esvorbruagbkg.ugclkql,gqmkgxkrlxgswklgvlgvfkzksagvaarxlvbrklgbkgorugqrbm
vlgv nkivbu’agqrpugkpgWvzra,gmragqvtgbmrbmuzg.urlxgbmzksxmgvgimszim,gmu
lunuzgwvaau gbmvbgmkotgwoviugxkrlxgbkgkzgzubszlrlxgpzkfgmragwrksa
uhuzirau,g.sbgmugvoqvtagcluuou g kqlgbkgwzvtjggQmuzurlgmugqkso gufwokt
bmug rnrlugpvnksz,gmragaksog.urlxgpsoogkpgasimgnrzbsksagfu rbvbrkla,
Rgouvnugkbmuzagbkgys xu,gqmrim,glunuzbmuouaa,gamugrlabvliuagpkzgv
buabrfkltgkpgarlxsovzg unkbrkljgg.sbgbmragraglkbgbmugklotgwzkkpgqugmvnu
bmvbgqkfulgvzuglkbgnuztgprbgbkgbzuvbgkpgbmukokxrivogvppvrzaj

Vgbzsugwzvtuzgvl gzuorxrksagzuiklirorlxgkpgkszauonuagbkgVofrxmbtgXk 
ivllkbgulbuzgrlbkgvlgrfwszugakso,gas.yuibgvbgbmugnuztgbrfugbkgbmu
 kfrlrklgkpgAvbvljggMugqmkgivooagXk gbkgmragvaarabvliugqmroabgrlgvgikszau
kpgnriu,g kuagvagrpgvgisb-wszaugamkso givoogvgfvxrabzvbugbkgmuowgmrf,gkz
orcugbmkaugqmkgrlbzk siugbmuglvfugkpgXk gbkgbmugvbbuabvbrklgkpgvgoruj

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Bvirbkgfvovgnkbvgasaszzk
ggggggggggggggggggggIklirwrfsaj”

gggggggggg[“Qugqmrawuzgkszgxsrobtgwzvtuzaj”---Osivl,gnjg104j]

Bmuzugvzugpuqgfulgqmkg szabgws.oramgbkgbmugqkzo gbmugwzvtuzagbmutgfvcugbk
VofrxmbtgXk :

ggggggggg“Mvs gisrnragwzkfwbsfguab,gfszfszesu,gmsfrouaesugasaszzka
ggggggggggBkoouzug ugbufwora,gubgvwuzbkgnrnuzugnkbk”

ggggg[“‘Braglkbgiklnulrulbgpkzgunuztgklugbkg.zrlxgbmugwzvtuzagmugfsbbuza
gggggksbgkpgbmugbufwou,gvl gbkgxrnugmragqramuagbkgbmugws.origuvzj
ggggg--“Wuzarsa,grrjg6j]

vl gbmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugWtbmvxkzuvlagqkso gmvnugbmufgvoqvtagws.ori
vl gmuvz g.tgunuztgklu,gbkgbmugul gbmutgfrxmbglkbgwzupuzgrl uiulbgkz
slysabgwubrbrklagvagbmragfvl:

gggggggggggggg“Iovzugessfg rhrb,gVwkook!
gggggggggggggggOv.zvgfknub,gfubsulagvs rzr:gWsoizvgOvnuzlv,
ggggggggggggggg vgfrmrgpvoouzu,g vgysabsfgavlibsfesugnr uzr;
gggggggggggggggLkibufgwuiivbra,gubgpzvs r.sagk.yriugls.ufj”

ggggg[“Qmulgmugmvagiouvzotgavr gVwkook!ggmugfknuagmragorwa,gpuvzpsogbkg.u
gggggmuvz ;gmugfszfsza:gKgpvrzgOvnuzlv,gxzvlbgfugbmugbvoulbgbkg uiurnu;
gggggxzvlbgfugbkgvwwuvzgmkotgvl gysab;gamzks gftgarlagqrbmglrxmb,gvl 
gggggivabgvgioks gknuzgftgpzvs aj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjgg16,g59j--(Ovnuzlv
gggggqvagbmugxk  uaagkpgbmrunuaj)]

Bmugxk agaunuzuotgwslramu gbmugqricu gwzvtuzagkpgKU rwsagrlgxzvlbrlx
bmuf:gmugmv gwzvtu gbmvbgmragimro zulgfrxmbgvfklxabgbmufauonuag ubuzfrlu
bmugasiiuaarklgbkgmragbmzklug.tgvzfa,gvl gqvagakgfrauzv.ougvagbkgauu
mrfauopgbvculgvbgmragqkz jggQugvzuglkbgbkgwzvtgbmvbgvoogbmrlxagfvtgxkgva
qugqkso gmvnugbmuf,g.sbgvagfkabgikliszzulbgqrbmgwzs uliuj

Qugauuf,grlgbzsbm,gbkgfvcugsaugkpgkszgwzvtuzagvagkpgvgcrl gkpgyvzxkl,gvl 
vagbmkaug kgqmkgufwoktgmkotgqkz agv.ksbgakziuzruagvl gfvxrivogkwuzvbrkla;
vl gvagrpgqugzuicklu gbmug.uluprbgqugvzugbkgzuvwgpzkfgbmufgvag uwul rlx
swklgbmugiklbuhbszu,gaksl ,gvl gyrlxougkpgqkz a,gkzgswklgbmugxzvnu
ikfwkarlxgkpgbmugikslbulvliujggPkzgmvnrlxgbmugaksogiklbvfrlvbu gqrbm
ikliswraiuliu,glkbgbksimu gqrbmgzuwulbvliu,gkzgikfpkzbu g.tgvltgovbu
zuiklirorvbrklgqrbmgXk ,gqugxkgbkgwzuaulbgMrfgasimgqkz agvagbmugfufkzt
asxxuabagbkgbmugbklxsu,gvl gmkwugpzkfgbmuliugbkgk.bvrlgbmugzufraarklgkp
kszgarlajggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakguvat,gakgaquub,gvl gakgpvnkszv.ou,gvagbmu
 rnrlugovq:grbgivooagvl grlnrbuagsagbkgmuz,gxsrobtgvl gv.kfrlv.ougvagqu
vzu;guhbul agmuzgvzfagvl gzuiurnuagsagrlbkgmuzg.kakf,gpksogvl gwkoosbu 
vagqugvbgwzuaulbgvzu,gvl gvzugpkzgbmugpsbszugbkg.ujgg.sbgbmul,grlgzubszl,
qugvzugbkgokkcgswklgmuzgqrbmgvgzuawuibpsogutu;gqugvzugbkgzuiurnugbmra
wvz klgqrbmgvoogxzvbrbs ugvl gas.fraarkl,gvl gpkzgbmvbgrlabvlbgvbgouvab,
qmuzurlgqugv  zuaagkszauonuagbkgmuz,gbkgmvnugbmugaksogaular.ougkpgbmu
rooagqugmvnugikffrbbu ,gvl gvbgulfrbtgqrbmgbmkaugwvaarklagbmvbgau siu gsa
bkgkppul gmuz;glurbmuzgbmugxk aglkzgxkk gfulg(avtagWovbk)gqroogviiuwbgbmu
wzuaulbgkpgvgqricu gfvl:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Rffslragvzvfgargbuzrxrbgfvlsa,
ggggggggggggggggggggLklgasfwbskavg.ovl rkzgmkabrv
ggggggggggggggggggggFkoornrbgvnuzakagWulvbua
ggggggggggggggggggggPvzzugwrkgubgavorulbugfrivj”

ggggg[“Rpgvgwszugmvl gmvagbksimu gbmugvobvz,gbmugwrksagkppuzrlxgkpgv
gggggafvoogivcugvl gvgpuqgxzvrlagkpgavobgqroogvwwuvaugbmugkppul u gxk a
gggggfkzuguppuibsvootgbmvlgikabotgavizrpriuaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg23,g17j]




IMVWBUZgONRR

KPgVXU

Rgivllkbgvookqgkpgbmugqvtgrlgqmrimgqugaubbougpkzgkszauonuagbmug szvbrkl
kpgkszgorpujggRgauugbmvbgbmugavxuagiklbzvibgrbgnuztgfsimgrlgikfwvzraklgkp
bmugikffklgkwrlrkl:g“qmvb,”gavr gbmugtkslxuzgIvbkgbkgbmkaugqmkgqkso gabvt
mragmvl gpzkfgcroorlxgmrfauop,g“vfgRglkqgkpgvlgvxugbkg.ugzuwzkvimu gbmvb
Rgxkgksbgkpgbmugqkzo gbkkgakkl?”ggVl gtubgmugqvag.sbgurxmb-vl -pkzbt
tuvzagko jggMugbmksxmbgbmvbgbkg.ugvgfvbszugvl gv nvliu gvxu,giklar uzrlx
mkqgpuqgvzzrnugslbkgrbjggVl gasimgva,gakkbmrlxgbmurzgbmksxmbagqrbmgRgclkq
lkbgqmvbgikszaugkpglvbszu,gwzkfraugbkgbmufauonuagakfugtuvzag.utkl grb,
ikso gbmutg.ugwzrnrouxu gpzkfgbmugrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgviir ulbagbkgqmrim
qugvzug.tgvglvbszvogas.yuibrklguhwkau ,gbmutgfrxmbgmvnugakfugzuvaklgakgbk
 kjggQmvbgvfgr ougikliurbgragrbgbkguhwuibgbkg rugkpgvg uivtgkpgabzulxbm,
qmrimgragbmuguppuibgkpguhbzufuabgvxu,gvl gbkgwzkwkaugbkgkszauonuaglk
amkzbuzgouvaugkpgorpugbmvlgbmvb,giklar uzrlxgrbgragvgcrl gkpg uvbmgkpgvoo
kbmuzagbmugfkabgzvzugvl gnuztgauo kfgauul?ggQugivoogbmvbgklotgvglvbszvo
 uvbm;gvagrpgrbgquzugiklbzvztgbkglvbszugbkgauugvgfvlg.zuvcgmragluicgqrbm
vgpvoo,g.ug zkqlu grlgamrwqzuic,g.ugalvbimu gvqvtgqrbmgvgwouszratgkzgbmu
wovxsu,gvl gvagrpgkszgkz rlvztgikl rbrklg r glkbguhwkaugsagbkgbmuau
rliklnulruliuajggOubgsaglkgoklxuzgpovbbuzgkszauonuagqrbmgbmuaugprlu
qkz a;gqugksxmbgzvbmuz,gwuzv nulbszu,gbkgivoogbmvbglvbszvogqmrimgra
xuluzvo,gikffkl,gvl gslrnuzavoj

Bkg rugkpgko gvxugragvg uvbmgzvzu,guhbzvkz rlvzt,gvl garlxsovz,gvl ,
bmuzupkzu,gakgfsimgouaaglvbszvogbmvlgbmugkbmuza;g‘bragbmugovabgvl 
uhbzufuabgakzbgkpg trlx:gvl gbmugfkzugzufkbu,gbmugouaagbkg.ugmkwu gpkzj
Rbgra,grl uu ,gbmug.kszlg.utkl gqmrimgqugvzuglkbgbkgwvaa,gvl gqmrimgbmu
ovqgkpglvbszugmvagaubgvagvgorfrb,glkbgbkg.uguhiuu u ;g.sbgrbgra,gqrbmvo,
vgwzrnrouxugamugragzvzuotgauulgbkgxrnugsagbkgovabgbroogbmuljgg‘Bragv
ouvaugamugklotgarxlag.tgwvzbrisovzgpvnksz,gvl grbgfvtg.ugbkgklugklotgrl
bmugawviugkpgbqkgkzgbmzuugvxua,gvl gbmulgqrbmgvgwvaagbkg.kkb,gbkgivzzt
mrfgbmzksxmgvoogbmugbzvnuzauagvl g rpprisobruagamugmvagabzuqu grlgbmugqvt
kpgbmragoklxgivzuuzjggVl gbmuzupkzugftgkwrlrklgra,gbmvbgqmulgkliugpkzbt
tuvzagqugamkso giklar uzgrbgvagvlgvxugbkgqmrimgnuztgpuqgvzzrnujggPkz
auurlxgbmvbgfulg kglkbgsasvootgwzkiuu gakgpvz,grbgragvgarxlgbmvbgqugvzu
wzubbtgquoogv nvliu ;gvl garliugqugmvnuguhiuu u gbmugkz rlvztg.ksl a,
qmrimgragbmugysabgfuvaszugkpgorpu,gqugksxmbglkbgbkguhwuibgbkgxkgfsim
pszbmuz;gmvnrlxguaivwu gakgfvltgwzuirwriuagkpg uvbm,gqmuzurlbkgqugmvnu
auulgakgfvltgkbmuzgfulgpvoo,gqugamkso gviclkqou xugbmvbgakguhbzvkz rlvzt
vgpkzbslugvagbmvbgqmrimgmvagmrbmuzbkgzuaisu gsagpzkfgbmkaugufrlulb
wuzroa,gvl gcuwbgsagvornug.utkl gbmugkz rlvztgbuzfgkpgornrlx,graglkbgorcu
bkgiklbrlsugoklxj

‘Bragvgpvsobgrlgkszgnuztgovqagbkgfvrlbvrlgbmraguzzkz:gbmuaugavtgbmvbgv
fvlgraglkbgivwv.ougkpgfvlvxrlxgmragkqlguabvbugbroogmug.ugprnu-vl -bqulbt
tuvzagko ,gqmuzuvagmugqroogmvnugfsimgv kgbkgfvlvxugmragorpugakgoklxj
VsxsabsagisbgkppgprnugtuvzagpzkfgbmugvlirulbgZkfvlgabvl vz ,gvl g uiovzu 
bmvbgbmrzbtgtuvzagko gqvagaspprirulbgpkzgvgys xujggAuznrsagBsoorsa
aswuzau u gbmugclrxmbagkpgv.knugaunul-vl -pkzbtgtuvzagkpgvxugpzkfgbmu
pvbrxsuagkpgqvz;gVsxsabsag rafraau gbmufgvbgpkzbt-prnu;gbmksxmgfubmrlca
rbgauufagvgorbbougslzuvaklv.ougbmvbgfulgamkso g.ugaulbgbkgbmugprzuar u
broogprnu-vl -prpbtgkzgarhbtgtuvzagkpgvxujggRgamkso g.ugkpgkwrlrklgbmvb
kszgnkivbrklgvl gufwoktfulbgamkso g.ugvagpvzgvagwkaar.ouguhbul u gpkzgbmu
ws.origxkk :gRgprl gbmugpvsobgklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gbmvbgbmutg kglkbgufwokt
saguvzotgulksxmjggBmragufwuzkzgqvagvz.rbuzgkpgbmugqmkougqkzo gvb
lrlubuul,gvl gtubgqkso gmvnugvgfvlgbkg.ugbmrzbtg.upkzugmugikso g.ugprbgbk
 ubuzfrlugvg rawsbugv.ksbgvgxsbbuzj

Pkzgftgwvzb,gRg.uorunugkszgaksoagvzugv sobgvbgbqulbtgvagfsimgvagbmutgvzu
unuzgorcugbkg.u,gvl gvagivwv.ougbmulgvagunuzjggVgaksogbmvbgmvaglkbg.t
bmvbgbrfugxrnulgunr ulbguvzluabgkpgrbagpkziugvl gnrzbsugqrooglunuzgvpbuz
ikfugbkgwzkkpjggBmuglvbszvogesvorbruagvl gnrzbsuagwzk siugqmvbgbmutgmvnu
kpgnrxkzksagvl gprlu,gqrbmrlgbmvbgbuzfgkzglunuz,

ggggggggggggggggggg“Argo’uawrlugzrklgwriesugesvl glvr,
ggggggggggggggggggggVgwulugesugwriesugyvfvr,”

ggggggggggggggg[“Rpgbmugbmkzlg kuaglkbgwzricgvbgrbag.rzbm,
ggggggggggggggg‘bqroogmvz otgunuzgwzricgvbgvooj”]

vagbmutgavtgrlg vswmrlj

KpgvoogbmugxzuvbgmsfvlgvibrklagRgunuzgmuvz gkzgzuv gkp,gkpgqmvbgakzb
akunuz,gRgmvnugk.auznu ,g.kbmgrlgpkzfuzgvxuagvl gkszgkql,gfkzugquzu
wuzpkzfu g.upkzugbmugvxugkpgbmrzbtgbmvlgvpbuz;gvl gbmragkpbbrfuagrlgbmu
nuztgornuagkpgbmugavfugfuljggFvtgRglkbgiklpr ulbotgrlabvliugrlgbmkaugkp
Mvllr.vogvl gmragxzuvbgzrnvogAirwrk?ggBmug.ubbuzgmvopgkpgbmurzgornuagbmut
ornu gswklgbmugxokztgbmutgmv gviesrzu grlgbmurzgtksbm;gxzuvbgfulgvpbuz,
‘bragbzsu,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgkbmuza;g.sbg.tglkgfuvlagrlgikfwvzraklgkp
bmufauonuajggVagbkgftgkqlgwvzbrisovz,gRg kgiuzbvrlotg.uorunugbmvbgarliu
bmvbgvxu,g.kbmgftgsl uzabvl rlxgvl gftgiklabrbsbrklgmvnugzvbmuzg uivtu 
bmvlgrfwzknu ,gvl gzubrzu gzvbmuzgbmvlgv nvliu jgg‘Bragwkaar.ou,gbmvb
qrbmgbmkaugqmkgfvcugbmug.uabgsaugkpgbmurzgbrfu,gclkqou xugvl guhwuzruliu
fvtgrlizuvaugqrbmgbmurzgtuvza;g.sbgnrnvirbt,gwzkfwbrbs u,gabuv rluaa,gvl 
kbmuzgwruiuagkpgsa,gkpgfsimgxzuvbuzgrfwkzbvliu,gvl gfsimgfkzuguaaulbrvoot
kszgkql,govlxsramgvl g uivt:

gggggggggggggg“S.rgyvfgnvor ragesvaavbsfguabgnrzr.sagvunr
gggggggggggggggIkzwsa,gubgk.bsaragiuir uzslbgnrzr.sagvzbsa,
gggggggggggggggIovs rivbgrlxulrsf,g uorzvbgorlxsvesu,gfulaesuj”

gggggggggg[“Qmulgkliugbmug.k tgragamvculg.tgbmugnrkouliugkpgbrfu,
gggggggggg.okk gvl gnrxkszgu..rlxgvqvt,gbmugys xfulbgmvoba,
ggggggggggbmugbklxsugvl gbmugfrl g kbuj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg452j]

Akfubrfuagbmug.k tgprzabgas.frbagbkgvxu,gakfubrfuagbmugfrl ;gvl gRgmvnu
auulgulksxmgqmkgmvnugxkbgvgquvcluaagrlgbmurzg.zvrlag.upkzugurbmuzgrl
bmurzgouxagkzgabkfvim;gvl g.tgmkqgfsimgbmugfkzugrbgragvg rauvaugkpglk
xzuvbgwvrlgbkgbmugasppuzuz,gvl gkpgk.aiszugatfwbkfa,gakgfsimgxzuvbuzgra
bmug vlxuzjggPkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgragbmvbgRgikfwovrlgkpgkszgovqa,glkbgbmvb
bmutgcuuwgsagbkkgoklxgbkgkszgqkzc,g.sbgbmvbgbmutgaubgsagbkgqkzcgbkkgovbuj
Pkzgbmugpzvrobtgkpgorpugiklar uzu ,gvl gbkgmkqgfvltgkz rlvztgvl glvbszvo
zkicagrbgraguhwkau ,gklugksxmbglkbgbkgxrnugswgakgovzxugvgwkzbrklgkpgrbgbk
imro mkk ,gr ouluaa,gvl gvwwzulbriuamrwj

ggggg[QmrimgIkbbklgbmsagzul uza:g“.rzbmgbmksxmglk.ou,gksxmbglkbgbkgamvzu
gggggakgovzxugvgnvivlit,gvl gakgbu rksagvgikszaugkpgu sivbrklj”ggPokzrk
ggggg(1613)gfvcuagbmugwvaavxugzuv gva-pkookqa:g“Fubmrlcagbmvb,
gggggiklar uzrlxgbmugquvcluaagkpgkszgorpu,gvl gauurlxgbmugrlprlrbuglsf.uz
gggggkpgkz rlvztgzkicagvl glvbszvog vlxuzagrbgragas.yuibgslbk,gqugamkso 
ggggglkb,gakgakklgvagqugikfugrlbkgbmugqkzo ,gvookbgakgovzxugvgamvzu
gggggbmuzukpgslbkgslwzkprbv.ougqvlbklluaagrlgtksbm,groo-.zuu rlx
gggggr ouluaa,gvl gaokq-ouvzlrlxgwzulbravxuj”]




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggV nraugbkgimkkaugquvwklagkpgbmugamkzbuabgakzb
gggggVlgrxlkzvliugbmvbgclkqou xugizuvbuagvl g.uxuba
gggggVamvfu gbkgovtgksbgvagfsimgbmksxmbgvl gabs tgswklgrb
gggggIvlglurbmuzgcuuwglkzgulyktgvltbmrlxgqrbmgvgxkk gxzviu
gggggImvlxugkpgpvamrkla
gggggImuaa:gbmragr ougvl gimro ramgxvfu
ggggg uvbmgragbuzzr.ougbkgIriuzk,giknubu g.tgIvbk
ggggg uvbmgkpgko gvxugbmugfkabgzvzugvl gnuztgauo kfgauul
ggggg rkxulua,guabuufrlxgsaglkg.ubbuzgbmvlgporuagkzg.ov  uza
ggggg kglkbgbkgwzvtgbmvbgvoogbmrlxagfvtgxkgvagqugqkso gmvnugbmuf
gggggUhiuogv.knugbmugikffklgzvbugrlgpzrnkoksagbmrlxa
gggggUhwzuaauagfkzugiklbufwbgvl gikl uflvbrklgbmvlgbmugkbmuz
gggggPvlitgbmvbgkbmuzagivllkbg.uorunugkbmuzqraugbmvlgvagmug kua
gggggXzv vbrklagv.knugvl g.uokqgwouvaszu
gggggXzuvbuabgvwwzumularkla,gpzkfgbmrlxagslauul,gikliuvou 
gggggMug r glkbgbmrlcgfvlcrl gqkzbmtgkpgvgqraugfvl’agikliuzl
gggggMkfugvlhrubruagvl gvgfrl gulaovnu g.tgquvzrlxgikfwovrlba
gggggMkqgrlprzfgvl g uivtrlxgfvbuzrvogbmragpv.zrigkpgkszagra
gggggRg kglkbgqroorlxotgvorxmbgqmulgRgvfgkliugklgmkzau.vic
gggggOu g.tgbmuguvzag.tgbmragimvzfrlxgmvzfkltgkpgqkz a
gggggOrbbougclvicaggvl gpzrnkoksagas.boubrua
gggggFulgvwwzknugkpgbmrlxagpkzgbmurzg.urlxgzvzugvl gluq
gggggFsabgkpgluiuaarbtgqvocgrlgbmugabuwagkpgvlkbmuz
gggggLvbszvog uvbmgbmugfkabgzvzugvl gnuztgauo kfgauul
gggggLkbgbkgrlabzsibg.sbgbkg.ugrlabzsibu j
gggggWzuaulbgMrfgasimgqkz agvagbmugfufkztgasxxuabagbkgbmugbklxsu
gggggWavofagkpgCrlxg vnr :gwzkfraisksa,grl raizuub
gggggZmubkzri:gvlgvzbgbkgpovbbuzgvl g uiurnu
gggggZmubkzri:gbkgxknuzlgvg rakz uzotgvl gbsfsobsksagzv..ou
gggggArbbrlxg.ubqrhbgbqkgabkkoa
gggggAkfubrfuagbmug.k tgprzabgas.frbagbkgvxu,gakfubrfuagbmugfrl 
gggggAbswr rbtgvl gpvirorbtglvbszvogbkgbmugikffklgwukwou
gggggBmug.r.ou:gbmugqricu gvl grxlkzvlbgxzkqgqkzaug.tgrbj
gggggBmugpvrlbluaagbmvbgaszwzrauagrlgbmuguhuzirauagkpgNulsa
gggggBmsit r ua:gqmrimgqvagbmug.ubbuzgqzuabouz
gggggBkg rugkpgko gvxugragvg uvbmgzvzu,guhbzvkz rlvzt,gvl garlxsovz
gggggBkgfvcugorbbougbmrlxagvwwuvzgxzuvbgqvagmragwzkpuaarkl
gggggBkgafuoo,gbmksxmgquoo,gragbkgabrlc
gggggNvokszgqroogivsaugvgbzuf.orlxgrlgbmugorf.agvagquoogvagpuvz
gggggNrair gfuobrlxgcraauagkpgtksbmpsogvz kszgrlgftgqvlbklgvxu
gggggQugivlglunuzg.ug uawrau gviikz rlxgbkgkszgpsoog uauzb
gggggQmulgqugmvnugxkbgrb,gqugqvlbgakfubmrlxguoau
gggggQkfulgqmkgwvrlb,gwksliu,gvl gwovabuzgswgbmurzgzsrla






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg9j

RjggggggggKpgbmugrliklabvlitgkpgkszgvibrklaj
RRjgggggggKpg zslculluaaj
RRRjggggggVgisabkfgkpgbmugRaougkpgIuvj
RNjgggggggBk-fkzzkq’agvgluqg vtj
NjggggggggKpgiklairuliuj
NRjgggggggSaugfvcuagwuzpuibj



UAAVTAgKPgFKLBVRXLU

.KKCgBMUgAUIKL 

IMVWBUZgR

KPgBMUgRLIKLABVLITgKPgKSZgVIBRKLA

Asimgvagfvcugrbgbmurzg.sarluaagbkgknuzauugmsfvlgvibrkla,g kglkbgprl 
bmufauonuagrlgvltbmrlxgakgfsimgwuzwouhu gvagbkgzuiklirougbmufgvl g.zrlx
bmufgrlbkgbmugqkzo ’agutugqrbmgbmugavfugosabzugvl gzuwsbvbrkl;gpkzgbmut
ikffklotgakgabzvlxuotgiklbzv ribgklugvlkbmuzgbmvbgrbgauufagrfwkaar.ou
bmutgamkso gwzkiuu gpzkfgklugvl gbmugavfugwuzakljggQugprl gbmugtkslxuz
FvzrsagklugqmrougvgaklgkpgFvzagvl gvlkbmuzgvgaklgkpgNulsajggWkwug.klrpviu
NRRRjgulbuzu ,grbgragavr ,grlbkgmragWvwvitgorcugvgpkh,g.umvnu gmrfauopgrl
rbgorcugvgorkl,gvl g ru gorcugvg kx;gvl gqmkgikso g.uorunugrbgbkg.ugbmu
avfugLuzk,gbmugwuzpuibgrfvxugkpgvoogizsuobt,gqmk,gmvnrlxgbmugaulbuliugkp
vgikl uflu gfvlg.zksxmbgbkgmrfgbkgarxl,gvagqvagbmugisabkf,gizru gksb,
“KgbmvbgRgmv glunuzg.uulgbvsxmbgbkgqzrbu!”gakgfsimgrbgqulbgbkgmragmuvzb
bkgikl uflgvgfvlgbkg uvbmjggVoogabkztgragpsoogkpgasimguhvfwoua,gvl gunuzt
fvlgragv.ougbkgwzk siugakgfvltgbkgmrfauop,gkzgksbgkpgmragkqlgwzvibriugkz
k.auznvbrkl,gbmvbgRgakfubrfuagqkl uzgbkgauugfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgxrnu
bmufauonuagbmugbzks.ougkpgakzbrlxgbmuaugwruiua,giklar uzrlxgbmvb
rzzuakosbrklgvwwuvzagbkgfugbkg.ugbmugfkabgikffklgvl gfvlrpuabgnriugkpgksz
lvbszugqrbluaagbmugpvfksagnuzaugkpgbmugwovtuzgWs.orsa:

gggggggggg“Fvosfgiklarorsfguab,gesk gfsbvzrglklgwkbuabj”

gggggggggg[“‘Bragunrogikslauogbmvbgqroogv frbglkgimvlxuj”
ggggggggggg--Ws.jggFrfj,guhgVsojgXuooj,ghnrrjg14j]

Bmuzugauufagakfugzuvaklgrlgpkzfrlxgvgys xfulbgkpgvgfvlgpzkfgbmugfkab
sasvogfubmk agkpgmragorpu;g.sb,giklar uzrlxgbmuglvbszvogrlabv.rorbtgkp
kszgfvlluzagvl gkwrlrkla,gRgmvnugkpbulgbmksxmbgunulgbmug.uabgvsbmkzagv
orbbougksbgrlgakgk.abrlvbuotgul uvnkszrlxgbkgfvcugkpgsagvltgiklabvlbgvl 
akor giklbuhbszu;gbmutgimkkaugvgxuluzvogvrzgkpgvgfvl,gvl gviikz rlxgbk
bmvbgrlbuzwzubgvoogmragvibrkla,gkpgqmrim,grpgbmutgivllkbg.ul gakfugbkgv
slrpkzfrbtgqrbmgbmugzuab,gbmutgvzugwzuaulbotgrfwsbu gbkg raarfsovbrklj
Vsxsabsagmvaguaivwu gbmuf,gpkzgbmuzugqvagrlgmrfgakgvwwvzulb,gas  ul,gvl 
iklbrlsvognvzrubtgkpgvibrklagvoogbmugqmkougikszaugkpgmragorpu,gbmvbgmu
mvagaorwwu gvqvtgiouvzgvl gsl uir u gpzkfgbmugfkabg vzrlxgizrbriajggRgivl
fkzugmvz otg.uorunugvgfvl’agiklabvlitgbmvlgvltgkbmuzgnrzbsu,gvl g.uorunu
lkbmrlxgakkluzgbmvlgbmugiklbzvztjggMugbmvbgqkso gys xugkpgvgfvlgrlg ubvro
vl g rabrlibot,g.rbg.tg.rb,gqkso gkpbuluzg.ugv.ougbkgawuvcgbmugbzsbmjggRb
ragvgmvz gfvbbuz,gpzkfgvoogvlbresrbt,gbkgwricgksbgvg kdulgfulgqmkgmvnu
pkzfu gbmurzgornuagbkgklugiuzbvrlgvl giklabvlbgikszau,gqmrimgragbmu
wzrlirwvog uarxlgkpgqra kf;gpkzgbkgikfwzraugrbgvoogrlgklugqkz ,gavtagklu
kpgbmugvlirulba,gvl gbkgiklbzvibgvoogbmugzsouagkpgmsfvlgorpugrlbkgklu,
“rbgragbkgqroo,gvl glkbgbkgqroo,gvoqvtagklugvl gbmugavfugbmrlx:gRgqroo
lkbgnksimavpu,”gavtagmu,g“bkgv  ,gwzknr u gbmugqroog.ugysab,gpkzgrpgrbg.u
lkbgysab,grbgragrfwkaar.ougrbgamkso g.ugvoqvtagkluj”ggRgmvnugrl uu 
pkzfuzotgouvzlu gbmvbgnriugraglkbmrlxg.sbgrzzuxsovzrbt,gvl gqvlbgkp
fuvaszu,gvl gbmuzupkzug‘bragrfwkaar.ougbkgprhgiklabvlitgbkgrbjgg‘Bragv
avtrlxgkpjgg ufkabmulua,g“bmvbgbmug.uxrllrlxgkmgvoognrzbsugra
iklasobvbrklgvl g uor.uzvbrkl;gbmugul gvl gwuzpuibrkl,giklabvlitj”ggRpgqu
qkso gzuakonugklgvltgiuzbvrlgikszaug.tgzuvakl,gqugamkso gwrbimgswklgbmu
.uab,g.sbglk.k tgmvagbmksxmbgkl’b:

gggggggggg“Esk gwubrb,gawuzlrb;gzuwubrb,gesk glswuzgkfrarb;
ggggggggggVUabsvb,gubgnrbvug raiklnulrbgkz rlugbkbkj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgqmrimgmugaksxmbgmug uawraua;gqmvbgmugovbuotgokab,gmugauuca
gggggvxvrljggMugposibsvbua,gvl gragrliklarabulbgrlgbmugqmkougkz uzgkp
gggggorpuj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjgR,g98j]

Kszgkz rlvztgwzvibriugragbkgpkookqgbmugrliorlvbrklagkpgkszgvwwubrbu,g.u
rbgbkgbmugoupbgkzgzrxmb,gswqvz agkzg kqlqvz a,gviikz rlxgvagqugvzugqvpbu 
.tgbmug.zuvbmgkpgkiivarkljggQuglunuzgfu rbvbugqmvbgqugqkso gmvnugbroogbmu
rlabvlbgqugmvnugvgfrl gbkgmvnugrb;gvl gimvlxugorcugbmvbgorbbougizuvbszu
qmrimgzuiurnuagrbagikokszgpzkfgqmvbgrbgragovr gswkljggQmvbgqug.sbgysab
lkqgwzkwkau gbkgkszauonuagqugrffu rvbuotgvobuz,gvl gwzuaulbotgzubszl
vxvrlgbkgrb;g‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgamrpbrlxgvl grliklarabulit:

ggggggggggggggg“ sirfsz,gsbgluznragvorulragfk.rougorxlsfj”

ggggg[“Qugvzugbszlu gv.ksbgorcugbmugbkwgqrbmgbmugbmklxgkpgkbmuzaj”
gggggg--R uf,gAvbj,grrjg7,g82j]

Qug kglkbgxk,gqugvzug zrnul;gorcugbmrlxagbmvbgpokvb,glkqgouraszuot,gbmul
qrbmgnrkouliu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugxulbouluaagkzgzvwr rbtgkpgbmugiszzulb:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lkllugnr ufsa,
ggggggggggEsr gar.rgesraesugnuorb,gluairzu,gubgesvuzuzugaufwuz
ggggggggggIkffsbvzugokisf,gesvargklsag uwkluzugwkaarb?”

ggggg[“ kgquglkbgauugbmuf,gsliuzbvrlgqmvbgbmutgqvlb,gvl gvoqvtagvacrlx
gggggpkzgakfubmrlxgluq,gvagrpgbmutgikso gxubgzr gkpgbmug.szbmulj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg1070j]

Unuztg vtgvgluqgqmrfat,gvl gkszgmsfkszagcuuwgfkbrklgqrbmgbmugbrfuj

ggggggggg“Bvouagaslbgmkfrlsfgfulbua,gesvorgwvbuzgrwau
ggggggggggYswwrbuzgvsibrprivagosabzvnrbgosfrlugbuzzvaj”

ggggg[“Asimgvzugbmugfrl agkpgful,gbmvbgbmutgimvlxugvagbmugorxmbgqrbm
gggggqmrimgpvbmuzgYswrbuzgmrfauopgmvagroosfrlu gbmugrlizuvarlxguvzbmj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gPzvxjggWkub,gor.jghj]

Qugposibsvbug.ubqrhbgnvzrksagrliorlvbrkla;gqugqrooglkbmrlxgpzuuot,
lkbmrlxgv.akosbuot,glkbmrlxgiklabvlbotjggRlgvltgklugqmkgmv gwzuaizr.u 
vl guabv.oramu g ubuzfrlvbugovqagvl gzsouagrlgmragmuv gpkzgmragkql
ikl sib,gqugamkso gwuziurnugvlguesvorbtgkpgfvlluza,gvlgkz uzgvl gvl
rlpvoor.ougzuovbrklgkpgklugbmrlxgkzgvibrklgbkgvlkbmuz,gamrlugbmzksxmgmra
qmkougorpu;gUfwu kiouagk.auznu gbmrag raizuwvlitgrlgbmugVxzrxulbrlua,
bmvbgbmutgxvnugbmufauonuagswgbkg uorxmba,gvagrpgunuztg vtgqvagbmurzgovab,
vl g.srobgvagrpgbmutgmv g.uulgbkgornugpkzgunuzjggBmugys xfulbgqkso glkb
.ugmvz gbkgfvcu,gvagragnuztgunr ulbgrlgbmugtkslxuzgIvbk;gmugqmkgbmuzurl
mvagpksl gklugabuw,grbgqroogouv gmrfgbkgvoogbmugzuab;g‘bragvgmvzfkltgkp
nuztgviikz rlxgaksl a,gbmvbgivllkbgyvzjgg.sbgqrbmgsag‘bgragesrbu
iklbzvzt;gunuztgwvzbrisovzgvibrklgzuesrzuagvgwvzbrisovzgys xfulbjggBmu
aszuabgqvtgbkgabuuz,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gqkso g.ugbkgbvcugkszgfuvaszuagpzkf
bmugluvzuabgvooru girzisfabvliua,gqrbmksbgulxvxrlxgrlgvgoklxuz
rlesrarbrkl,gkzgqrbmksbgiklios rlxgvltgkbmuzgiklauesuliujggRgqvagbko ,
 szrlxgbmugirnrog rakz uzagkpgkszgwkkzgcrlx kf,gbmvbgvgfvr ,gmvz g.tgbmu
woviugqmuzugRgbmulgqva,gmv gbmzkqlgmuzauopgksbgkpgvgqrl kqgbkgvnkr g.urlx
pkziu g.tgvgikffklgako ruzgqmkgqvagesvzbuzu grlgbmugmksau;gamugqvaglkb
croou g.tgbmugpvoo,gvl gbmuzupkzu,gzuwuvbrlxgmuzgvbbufwbgqkso gmvnugisb
muzgkqlgbmzkvb,gmv gamuglkbg.uulgwzunulbu ;g.sbgmvnrlx,glunuzbmuouaa,
qksl u gmuzauopgbkgakfugamkqgkpg vlxuz,gamugnkoslbvzrotgiklpuaau gbmvb
bmugako ruzgmv glkbgvagtubgrfwkzbslu gmuzgkbmuzqrau;gbmvlg.tgikszbamrw,
uvzluabgakorirbvbrkl,gvl gwzuaulba;g.sbgbmvbgamugqvagvpzvr gbmvbgrlgbmu
ul gmugqkso gmvnugwzkiuu u gbkgnrkouliu,gvoogqmrimgamug uornuzu gqrbm
asimgvgikslbulvliugvl gviiulb,gvl gqrbmvoguf.zsu grlgmuzgkqlg.okk ,gbmu
mrxmuabgbuabrfkltgkpgmuzgnrzbsu,gbmvbgamugvwwuvzu gvlkbmuzgOsizubrv;gvl 
tubgRgmvnugarliug.uulgnuztgquoogvaaszu gbmvbg.kbmg.upkzugvl gvpbuzgamu
qvaglkbgakg rpprisobgvgwruiujggVl ,gviikz rlxgbkgftgmkab’agbvougrl
Vzrkabk,g.ugvagmvl akfugvgfvlgvl gvagqkzbmtgvgxulboufvlgvagtksgqroo,g k
lkbgiklios ugbkkgfsimgswklgtkszgfrabzuaa’agrlnrkov.ougimvabrbtgpkzgmvnrlx
.uulgzuwsoau ;gtksg kglkbgclkqg.sbgamugfvtgmvnugvg.ubbuzgabkfvimgbkgtksz
fsoubuuzj

Vlbrxklsa,gmvnrlxgbvculgklugkpgmragako ruzagrlbkgvgxzuvbg uxzuugkpgpvnksz
vl guabuufgpkzgmragnvoksz,gxvnugmragwmtarirvlagabzribgimvzxugbkgiszugmrf
kpgvgoklxgvl grlqvz g rauvaugsl uzgqmrimgmugmv gvgxzuvbgqmrougovlxsramu ,
vl gk.auznrlxgbmvb,gvpbuzgmragiszu,gmugqulbgfsimgfkzugiko otgbkgqkzcgbmvl
.upkzu,gmugvacu gmrfgqmvbgmv gakgvobuzu gvl gikqu gmrf:g“Tkszauop,garz,”
gzuworu gbmugkbmuz,g“.tgmvnrlxguvau gfugkpgbmugwvrlagbmvbgfv ugfugquvztgkp
ftgorpuj”ggOsisoosa’agako ruzgmvnrlxg.uulgzrpou g.tgbmuguluft,gwuzpkzfu 
swklgbmufgrlgzunulxugvg.zvnuguhwokrb,g.tgqmrimgmvnrlxgfv ugmrfauopgv
xvrluz,gOsisoosa,gqmkgmv gikliurnu gvgxkk gkwrlrklgkpgmrfgpzkfgbmvb
vibrkl,gqulbgv.ksbgbkgulxvxugmrfgrlgakfugulbuzwzraugkpgnuztgxzuvbg vlxuz,
qrbmgvoogbmugwovsar.ougwuzasvarklagvl gwzkfrauagmugikso gbmrlcgkp;

gggggggggg“Nuz.ra,gesvugbrfr kgeskesugwkaaulbgv  uzugfulbuf”

gggggggggg[“Qkz agqmrimgfrxmbgv  gikszvxugbkgvltgbrfr gfvlj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grrjg2,g1,g2j]

“Wzvtgufwokt,”gvlaquzu gmu,g“akfugfrauzv.ougwosl uzu gako ruzgrlgbmvb
vppvrz”:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esvlbsfnragzsabrisa,gr.rb,
gggggggggggggggR.rbguk,geskgnra,gesrgdklvfgwuz r rb,grlesrb;”

ggggg[“Akfugwkkzgpuookq,gqmkgmvagokabgmragwszau,gqroogxkgqmrbmuzgtks
gggggqram,gavr gmuj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grrjg2,g39j]

vl gpovbotgzupsau gbkgxkjggQmulgqugzuv gbmvbgFvmkfubgmvnrlxgpszrksaot
zvbu gImvavl,g.vaavgkpgbmugYvlraavzrua,g.uivsaugmugmv gauulgbmu
Mslxvzrvlag.zuvcgrlbkgmragaesv zkla,gvl gmrfauopg.umvnugnuztgroogrlgbmu
.sarluaa,gvl gbmvbgImvavl,grlabuv gkpgvltgkbmuzgvlaquz,gzsamu gpszrksaot
voklu,gairfrbvzgrlgmvl ,grlbkgbmugprzabg.k tgkpgbmuguluft,gqmuzugmugqva
wzuaulbotgisbgbkgwruiua,gqugvzuglkbgbkgokkcgswklgbmvbgvibrkl,
wuzv nulbszu,gakgfsimgvagnrl rivbrklgvagvgbszlgkpgfrl ,glkbgakgfsim
lvbszvognvokszgvagvgas  ulg uawrbujggBmugfvlgtksgavqgtuabuz vtgak
v nulbszksagvl g.zvnu,gtksgfsabglkbgbmrlcgrbgabzvlxugbkgauugmrfgvagxzuvb
vgwkobzkklgbmugluhb:gvlxuz,gluiuaarbt,gikfwvlt,gqrlu,gkzgbmugaksl gkpgbmu
bzsfwubgmv gzksau gmragawrzrba;gbmragraglkgnvokszgpkzfu gvl guabv.oramu 
.tgzuvakl,g.sbgviir ulbvootgizuvbu g.tgasimgirzisfabvliua,gvl gbmuzupkzu
rbgraglkgqkl uzgrpg.tgiklbzvztgirzisfabvliuagrbgvwwuvzgesrbugvlkbmuz
bmrlxj

Bmuaugaswwougnvzrvbrklagvl giklbzv ribrklagakgfvlrpuabgrlgsa,gmvnugxrnul
kiivarklgbkgakfugbkg.uorunugbmvbgfvlgmvagbqkgaksoa;gkbmuzgbqkg rabrlib
wkquzagbmvbgvoqvtagviikfwvltgvl grliorlugsa,gbmugklugbkqvz agxkk gvl gbmu
kbmuzgbkqvz agroo,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkqlglvbszugvl gwzkwularkl;gak
v.zswbgvgnvzrubtglkbg.urlxgrfvxrlv.ougbkgpokqgpzkfgklugvl gbmugavfu
aksziuj

Pkzgftgwvzb,gbmugwsppgkpgunuztgviir ulbglkbgklotgivzzruagfugvoklxgqrbmgrb
viikz rlxgbkgrbagkqlgwzkiornrbt,g.sbgfkzuknuzgRg raikfwkaugvl gbzks.ou
ftauopg.tgbmugrlabv.rorbtgkpgftgkqlgwkabszu;gvl gqmkunuzgqroogokkc
lvzzkqotgrlbkgmragkqlg.kakf,gqroogmvz otgprl gmrfauopgbqriugrlgbmugavfu
ikl rbrkljggRgxrnugbkgftgaksogakfubrfuagklugpviugvl gakfubrfuagvlkbmuz,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugar ugRgbszlgmuzgbkjggRpgRgawuvcgnvzrksaotgkpgftauop,grb
rag.uivsaugRgiklar uzgftauopgnvzrksaot;gvoogbmugiklbzvzrubruagvzugbmuzu
bkg.ugpksl grlgklugikzluzgkzgvlkbmuz;gvpbuzgklugpvamrklgkzgvlkbmuz:
.vampso,grlakoulb;gimvabu,gosabpso;gwzvbrlx,garoulb;gov.kzrksa,g uorivbu;
rlxulrksa,gmuvnt;gfuovlimkori,gwouvavlb;gotrlx,gbzsu;gclkqrlx,grxlkzvlb;
or.uzvo,giknubksa,gvl gwzk rxvo:gRgprl gvoogbmragrlgftauop,gfkzugkzgouaa,
viikz rlxgvagRgbszlgftauopgv.ksb;gvl gqmkunuzgqroogarpbgmrfauopgbkgbmu
.kbbkf,gqroogprl grlgmrfauop,gvl gunulgrlgmragkqlgys xfulb,gbmra
nkos.rorbtgvl g raikz vliujggRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgavtgkpgftauopgulbrzuot,
arfwot,gvl gakor otgqrbmksbgfrhbszugvl giklpsarkljgg‘ rabrlxsk’gragbmu
fkabgslrnuzavogfuf.uzgkpgftgokxrijggBmksxmgRgvoqvtagrlbul gbkgawuvcgquoo
kpgxkk gbmrlxa,gvl gzvbmuzgbkgrlbuzwzubgasimgbmrlxagvagpvoogksbgrlgbmu
.uabgaulaugbmvlgkbmuzqrau,gtubgasimgragbmugabzvlxuluaagkpgkszgikl rbrkl,
bmvbgqugvzugkpbulgwsamu gklgbkg kgquoogunulg.tgnriugrbauop,grpgquoo- krlx
quzuglkbgys xu g.tgbmugrlbulbrklgklotjggKlugxvoovlbgvibrkl,gbmuzupkzu,
ksxmbglkbgbkgiklios ugvgfvlgnvorvlb;grpgvgfvlgquzug.zvnugrl uu ,gmugqkso 
.ugvoqvtagak,gvl gswklgvoogkiivarklajggRpgrbgquzugvgmv.rbgkpgnvokszgvl 
lkbgvgavoot,grbgqkso gzul uzgvgfvlguesvootgzuakosbugrlgvoogviir ulba;gbmu
avfugvoklugvagrlgikfwvlt;gbmugavfugrlgorabagvagrlgvg.vbbou:gpkz,goubgbmuf
avtgqmvbgbmutgqroo,gbmuzugraglkbgklugnvokszgpkzgbmugwvnufulbgvl gvlkbmuz
pkzgbmugpruo ;gmugqkso g.uvzgvgaricluaagrlgmrag.u gvag.zvnuotgvagvgqksl 
rlgbmugpruo ,gvl glkgfkzugpuvzg uvbmgrlgmragkqlgmksaugbmvlgvbgvlgvaavsobj
Qugamkso glkbgbmulgauugbmugavfugfvlgimvzxugrlbkgvg.zuvimgqrbmgvg.zvnu
vaaszvliu,gvl gvpbuzqvz agbkzfulbgmrfauopgorcugvgqkfvlgpkzgbmugokaagkpgv
bzrvogvbgovqgkzgbmug uvbmgkpgvgimro ;gqmul,g.urlxgvlgrlpvfksagikqvz ,gmu
ragprzfgrlgbmugluiuaarbruagkpgwknuzbt;gqmulgmugamzrlcagvbgbmugarxmbgkpgv
.vz.uz’agzvdkz,gvl gzsamuagpuvzouaagswklgbmugaqkz agkpgbmuguluft,gbmu
vibrklgragikfful v.ou,glkbgbmugfvlj

FvltgkpgbmugXzuuca,gavtagIriuzk,--[Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg27j]--
ivllkbgul szugbmugarxmbgkpgvlguluft,gvl gtubgvzugikszvxuksagrlgaricluaa;
bmugIrf.zrvlagvl gIuobr.uzrvlagesrbugiklbzvzt;

gggggggggggggg“Lrmrogulrfgwkbuabguaaugvuesv.rou,
gggggggggggggggesk glklgvgiuzbvgzvbrklugwzkpriraivbszj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgivlg.ugzuxsovzgbmvbg kuaglkbgwzkiuu gpzkfgvgprhu gxzksl 
gggggkpgzuvaklj”--R uf,gr.r j,gijg26j]

Lkgnvokszgivlg.ugfkzuguhbzufugrlgrbagcrl gbmvlgbmvbgkpgVouhvl uz:g.sbgrb
ragkpg.sbgklugcrl ,glkzgpsoogulksxmgbmzksxmksb,glkzgslrnuzavoj
Rlikfwvzv.ougvagrbgra,grbgmvagtubgakfug.ouframua;gkpgqmrimgmrag.urlxgak
kpbulgvbgmragqrba’gul gswklgunuztgorxmbgasawrirklgkpgmragivwbvrla
iklawrzrlxgvxvrlabgmragorpu,gvl gbmugivzztrlxgmrfauopgrlgbmvbgrlesrarbrkl
qrbmgakgfsimgnumufuliugvl grl raizuubgrlysabriu,gvl gqrbmgvgpuvzgbmvb
as.nuzbu gmraglvbszvogzuvakl,gragklugwzuxlvlbgrlabvliujggBmu
aswuzabrbrkl,gvoak,gqrbmgqmrimgmugqvagakgfsimgbvrlbu ,givzzruagvoklxgqrbm
rbgakfugrfvxugkpgwsaroovlrfrbt;gvl gbmuguhiuaagkpgmragwulrbuliugpkzgbmu
fsz uzgkpgIotbsagragvoakgvgbuabrfkltgkpgbmugslunulluaagkpgmragikszvxuj
Voogqugwuzpkzfgraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgvgiulbk,gvagvgfvlgfvtgavt,gkpgaunuzvo
wruiua,gvl gqugqkso gviesrzugmklkszg.tgvgpvoaugbrboujggNrzbsugivllkbg.u
pkookqu g.sbgpkzgmuzauop,gvl grpgklugakfubrfuag.kzzkqagmuzgfvacgbkgakfu
kbmuzgwszwkau,gamugwzuaulbotgwsooagrbgvqvtgvxvrljgg‘Bragvgnrnr gvl 
abzklxgbrlibszugqmrim,gqmulgbmugaksogmvagkliugbmkzksxmotgrf.r.u grb,gqroo
lkbgksbg.sbgqrbmgbmugwruiujggVl ,gbmuzupkzu,gbkgfvcugvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkp
vgfvl,gqugvzugoklxgvl gnuztgk.auznrlxotgbkgpkookqgmragbzviu:grpgiklabvlit
 kuaglkbgbmuzugabvl gprzfgswklgmuzgkqlgwzkwuzg.vau,

ggggggggggggggg“Isrgnrnul rgnrvgiklar uzvbvgvbesugwzknravguab,”

ggggg[“Rpgbmugqvtgkpgmragorpugragbmkzksxmotgiklar uzu gvl gbzviu gksbj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gWvzv kh,gnjg1j]

rpgbmugnvzrubtgkpgkiiszzuliuagfvcuagmrfgvobuzgmragwviug(mragwvbm,gRgfuvl,
pkzgbmugwviugfvtg.ugpvabuzgkzgaokquz)goubgmrfgxk;gasimgvlgklugzslag.upkzu
bmugqrl ,g“Vnvsgoug ulb,”gvagbmugfkbbkgkpgkszgBvou.kbgmvagrbj

‘Braglkgqkl uz,gavtagklugkpgbmugvlirulba,gbmvbgimvliugmvagakgxzuvbgv
 kfrlrklgknuzgsa,garliugrbgrag.tgimvliugqugornujggRbgraglkbgwkaar.ougpkz
vltgklugqmkgmvaglkbg uarxlu gmragorpugpkzgakfugiuzbvrlgul ,grbgra
rfwkaar.ougpkzgvltgklugbkgvzzvlxugbmugwruiua,gqmkgmvaglkbgbmugqmkougpkzf
vozuv tgiklbzrnu grlgmragrfvxrlvbrkljggKpgqmvbgsaugvzugikokszagbkgmrf
bmvbgclkqaglkbgqmvbgmugragbkgwvrlb?ggLkgklugovtag kqlgvgiuzbvrlg uarxl
pkzgmragorpu,gvl gqugklotg uor.uzvbugbmuzukpg.tgwruiuajggBmugvzimuzgksxmb
przabgbkgclkqgvbgqmvbgmugragbkgvrf,gvl gbmulgviikffk vbugmragvzf,g.kq,
abzrlx,gamvpb,gvl gfkbrklgbkgrb;gkszgikslauoag unrvbugvl gqvl uz,g.uivsau
lkbgounuoou gbkgvltg ubuzfrlvbugul jggLkgqrl gauznuagmrfgqmkgv  zuaaua
mragnktvxugbkglkgiuzbvrl,gwkzbjggRgivllkbgviesruaiugrlgbmugys xfulbgxrnul
.tgklugrlgbmug.umvopgkpgAkwmkioua,ggqmkgiklios u gmrfgivwv.ougkpgbmu
fvlvxufulbgkpg kfuabrigvppvrza,gvxvrlabgbmugviisavbrklgkpgmragakl,gpzkf
mvnrlxgzuv gklugkpgmragbzvxu ruaj

Lurbmuzg kgRgvookqgkpgbmugiklyuibszugkpgbmugWvzrvla,gaulbgbkgzuxsovbugbmu
Frouarvlagaspprirulbgpkzgasimgvgiklauesuliugvagbmutgpzkfgbmuliug uzrnu 
ikfrlxgbkgnrarbgbmugraovl ,gbmutgbkkcglkbriugkpgasimgxzksl agvagquzug.uab
msa.vl u ,gvl gasimgikslbzt-mksauagvagquzug.uabgxknuzlu ;gvl gmvnrlx
bvculgbmuglvfuagkpgbmugkqluza,gqmulgbmutgmv gvaauf.ou gbmugirbrdula,gbmut
vwwkrlbu gbmuaugpvzfuzagpkzgluqgxknuzlkzagvl gfvxrabzvbua;giklios rlx
bmvbgbmut,gqmkgmv g.uulgakgwzknr ulbgrlgbmurzgkqlgwzrnvbugikliuzla,gqkso 
.ugakgkpgbmugws.origbkkjggQugvzugvoogosfwa,gvl gkpgakgnvzrksagvl grlpkzf
vgiklbuhbszu,gbmvbgunuztgwruiugwovta,gunuztgfkfulb,grbagkqlgxvfu,gvl 
bmuzugragvagfsimg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgsagvl gkszauonuagvag.ubqrhbgsagvl 
kbmuza:

ggggggggggggggg“Fvxlvfgzufgwsbv,gslsfgmkfrlufgvxuzuj”

ggggg[“Uabuufgrbgvgxzuvbgbmrlxgvoqvtagbkgvibgvagklugvl gbmugavfu
gggggfvlj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g150j]

Arliugvf.rbrklgivlgbuvimgfvlgnvoksz,gbufwuzvliu,gvl gor.uzvorbt,gvl gunul
ysabriugbkk;gauurlxgbmvbgvnvzriugivlgrlawrzugbmugikszvxugkpgvgamkw-.kt,
.zu gvl glszau gswgrlgk.aiszrbtgvl guvau,gqrbmgbmugvaaszvliugbkguhwkau
mrfauopgakgpvzgpzkfgbmugprzuar ugbkgbmugfuzitgkpgbmugqvnuagvl gvlxzt
Luwbslugrlgvgpzvrog.kvb;gbmvbgamugpszbmuzgbuvimuag raizubrklgvl 
wzs uliu;gvl gbmvbgunulgNulsagivlgrlpovbug.ktagsl uzgbmug rairworlugkp
bmugzk gqrbmg.ko luaagvl gzuakosbrkl,gvl grlpsaugfvaisorlugikszvxugrlbk
bmugmuvzbgkpgbul uzgnrzxrlagrlgbmurzgfkbmuza’gvzfa:

ggggggggg“Mvig siu,gisabk uagpszbrfgbzvlaxzuaavgyviulbua,
ggggggggggV gysnulufgbulu.zragakovgwsuoovgnulrb:”

ggggg[“Amugouv rlx,gbmugfvr ul,gpszbrnuotgwvaarlxg.tgbmugzuisf.ulb
gggggxsvz a,gxkuagvoklugrlgbmug vzcluaagbkgbmugtksbmj”
gggggg--Br.soosa,grrjg2,g75j]

‘braglkbgvoogbmugsl uzabvl rlxgmvagbkg k,garfwotgbkgys xugsag.tgksz
ksbqvz gvibrkla;grbgfsabgwulubzvbugbmugnuztgakso,gvl gbmuzug raiknuzg.t
qmvbgawzrlxagbmugfkbrklgragxsr u jgg.sbgbmvbg.urlxgvgmrxmgvl gmvdvz ksa
sl uzbvcrlx,gRgikso gqramgbmvbgpuquzgqkso gvbbufwbgrbj




IMVWBUZgRR

KPg ZSLCULLUAA

Bmugqkzo graglkbmrlxg.sbgnvzrubtgvl g rauf.ovliu,gnriuagvzugvoogvorcu,gva
bmutgvzugnriua,gvl gwuzv nulbszugbmugAbkriagsl uzabvl gbmufgak;g.sb
vobmksxmgbmutgvzuguesvootgnriua,gtubgbmutgvzuglkbgvooguesvognriua;gvl gmu
qmkgmvagbzvlaxzuaau gbmugkz rlvztg.ksl agvgmsl zu gwviua:

gggggggggg“Eskagsobzvgirbzvesugluesrbgiklarabuzugzuibsf,”

gggggggggg[“.utkl gkzgqrbmrlgqmrimgbmugzrxmbgivllkbguhrabj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,gr,g1,g107j]

amkso glkbg.ugrlgvgqkzaugikl rbrklgbmvlgmugbmvbgmvagv nvliu g.sbgbul,gra
lkbgbkg.ug.uorunu ;gkzgbmvbgavizrouxugraglkbgqkzaugbmvlgabuvorlxgv
iv..vxu:

ggggggggg“Luignrliubgzvbrkgmki,gbvlbsf ufgsbgwuiiub,gr ufesu,
ggggggggggEsrgbuluzkagivsouagvorulrgpzuxuzrbgmkzbr,
ggggggggggUbgesrglkibszlsag rnsfgavizvgouxuzrbj”

Bmuzugragrlgbmragvagxzuvbg rnuzarbtgvagrlgvltbmrlxgqmvbunuzjggBmu
iklpksl rlxgkpgbmugkz uzgvl gfuvaszugkpgarlagrag vlxuzksa:gfsz uzuza,
bzvrbkza,gvl gbtzvlbagxubgbkkgfsimg.tgrb,gvl grbgraglkbgzuvaklv.ougbmut
amkso gpovbbuzgbmurzgiklairuliua,g.uivsaugvlkbmuzgfvlgragr ou,
ovairnrksa,gkzglkbgvaar sksagvbgmrag unkbrkljggUnuztgklugknuzzvbuagbmu
kppuliugkpgmragikfwvlrkla,g.sbguhbulsvbuagmragkqljggKszgnuztgrlabzsibkza
bmufauonuagzvlcgbmufgakfubrfua,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gnuztgroojggVagAkizvbua
avr gbmvbgbmugwzrlirwvogkppriugkpgqra kfgqvagbkg rabrlxsramgxkk gpzkf
unro,gqu,gbmug.uabgkpgqmkfgvzugnrirksa,gksxmbgvoakgbkgavtgbmugavfugkpgbmu
airuliugkpg rabrlxsramrlxg.ubqrhbgnriugvl gnriu,gqrbmksbgqmrim,gvl gbmvb
nuztguhvibotgwuzpkzfu ,gbmugnrzbsksagvl gbmugqricu gqroogzufvrl
iklpksl u gvl gslzuikxlrau j

Lkq,gvfklxabgbmugzuab,g zslculluaagauufagbkgfugbkg.ugvgxzkaagvl g.zsbram
nriujggBmugaksogmvagxzuvbuzgwvzbgrlgbmugzuab,gvl gbmuzugvzugakfugnriua
bmvbgmvnugakfubmrlx,grpgvgfvlgfvtgakgavt,gkpgxuluzksagrlgbmuf;gbmuzugvzu
nriuagqmuzurlgbmuzugragvgfrhbszugkpgclkqou xu,g rorxuliu,gnvoksz,
wzs uliu,g uhbuzrbt,gvl gv  zuaa;gbmragklugragbkbvootgikzwkzuvogvl 
uvzbmotjggVl gbmugzs uabglvbrklgbmrag vtgrlgUszkwugragbmvbgvoklugqmuzugrb
ragrlgpvamrkljggKbmuzgnriuag raikfwkaugbmugsl uzabvl rlx:gbmragbkbvoot
knuzbmzkqagrbgvl gzul uzagbmug.k tgabswr :

gggggggggggggg“Isfgnrlrgnragwulubzvnrbgjggjggj
gggggggggggggggIklauesrbszgxzvnrbvagfuf.zkzsf,gwzvuwu rslbsz
gggggggggggggggIzszvgnviroovlbr,gbvz uairbgorlxsv,gfv ubgfula,
gggggggggggggggLvlbgkisor;giovfkz,garlxsobsa,gyszxrv,gxoraislbj”

ggggg[“Qmulgbmugwkquzgkpgqrlugmvagwulubzvbu gsa,gvgmuvnrluaagkpgbmugorf.a
gggggpkookqa,gbmugouxagkpgbmugbkbbuzrlxgwuzaklgvzugrfwu u ;gbmugbklxsu
gggggxzkqagbkzwr ,gbmugfrl grag rffu ,gbmugutuagaqrf;glkrau,gmriisw,gvl 
gggggesvzzuoagvzrauj--“Osizubrsa,grjg3,g475j]

Bmugqkzabgabvbugkpgfvlgragbmvbgqmuzurlgmugokauagbmugclkqou xugvl 
xknuzlfulbgkpgmrfauopjggVl g‘bragavr gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxagswklgbmra
as.yuib,gbmvb,gvagbmugfsabgpuzfulbrlxgrlgvgnuaauo,gqkzcagswgbkgbmugbkw
qmvbunuzgrbgmvagrlgbmug.kbbkf,gakgqrlu,grlgbmkaugqmkgmvnug zslcg.utkl 
fuvaszu,gnulbagbmugfkabgrlqvz gauizuba:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Bsgavwrulbsf
ggggggggggggggggggggIszvagubgvzivlsfgykikak
ggggggggggggggggggggIklarorsfgzubuxragOtvukj”

ggggg[“Bmksg raiokauabgbkgbmugfuzztgOtvisagbmugivzuagvl gauizub
gggggikslauogkpgbmugqrauj”--Mkzviu,gK j,ghhrjg1,g114j]

ggggg[Otvisa,gvglvfugxrnulgbkg.viimsaj]

Ykauwmsagbuooagsagbmvbg.tgxrnrlxgvlgvf.vaav kzgbmuguluftgmv gaulbgbkgmrf
mragpsoog kaugkpgoreskz,gmugqkzfu gksbgmragauizubajggVl gtub,gVsxsabsa,
ikffrbbrlxgbmugfkabgrlqvz gauizubagkpgmragvppvrzagbkgOsirsagWrak,gqmk
iklesuzu gBmzviu,glunuzgpksl gmrfgpvsobtgrlgbmugouvab,glkgfkzugbmvl
Br.uzrvag r gIkaasa,gqrbmgqmkfgmugrlbzsabu gmragqmkougikslauoa,gbmksxmgqu
clkqgbmutgquzug.kbmgakgxrnulgbkg zrlcgbmvbgbmutgmvnugkpbulg.uulgpvrlgbk
ivzztg.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzg zslcgksbgkpgbmugAulvbu:

gggggggggg“Muabuzlkgrlpovbsfgnulvagsbgaufwuz,gOtvukj”

ggggg[“Bmurzgnurlagpsoo,gvagsasvo,gkpgtuabuz vt’agqrluj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gUxoj,gnrjgg15j]

Vl gbmug uarxlgkpgcroorlxgIvuavzgqvagvagavpuotgikffslrivbu gbkgIrf.uz,
bmksxmgmugqkso gkpbulg.ug zslc,gvagbkgIvaarsa,gqmkg zvlcglkbmrlxg.sb
qvbuzj

ggggg[VagbkgqmrimgIvaarsagwouvavlbotgavr :g“Qmvb,gamvoogRg.uvz
gggggvgbtzvlb,gRgqmkgivllkbg.uvzgqrlu?”]

QugauugkszgXuzfvla,gqmulg zslcgvagbmug unro,gclkqgbmurzgwkab,gzufuf.uz
bmugqkz ,gvl gcuuwgbkgbmurzgzvlca:

ggggggggggggggg“Luigpviroragnribkzrvg ugfv r ra,gub
ggggggggggggggg.ovuara,gvbesugfuzkgbrbs.vlbr.saj”

ggggg[“Lkzgragvgnribkztguvarotgk.bvrlu gknuzgfulgakg zslc,gbmutgivl
gggggaivziugawuvcgkzgabvl j”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghnjgg47j]

Rgikso glkbgmvnug.uorunu gbmuzugmv g.uulgakgwzkpksl ,gaulauouaa,gvl g uv 
vg uxzuugkpg zslculluaagmv gRglkbgzuv grlgmrabkztgbmvbgVbbvosagmvnrlx,
bkgwsbgvglkbv.ougvppzklbgswklgmrf,grlnrbu gbkgaswwuzgbmugavfugWvsavlrva,
qmkgswklgbmugnuztgavfugkiivarklgvpbuzqvz agcroou gWmrorwgkpgFviu kl,
vgcrlxgqmkg.tgmraguhiuooulbgesvorbruagxvnugaspprirulbgbuabrfkltgkpgmra
u sivbrklgrlgbmugmksaugvl gikfwvltgkpgUwvfrlkl va,gfv ugmrfg zrlcgbkgasim
vgwrbimgbmvbgmugikso gvpbuzgv.vl klgmrag.uvsbt,gvagkpgvgmu xugabzsfwub,
bkgbmugfsoubuuzagvl gauznvlbagkpgbmug.vauabgkppriugrlgbmugmksaujggVl gR
mvnug.uulgpszbmuzgbko g.tgvgov tgqmkfgRgmrxmotgmklkszgvl guabuuf,gbmvb
luvzg.kz uvshgvl gv.ksbgIvabzuaggqmuzugamugornua,gvgikslbztgqkfvl,gv
qr kqgkpgimvabugzuwsbu,gwuziurnrlxgrlgmuzauopgbmugprzabgatfwbkfagkp
.zuu rlx,grllkiulbotgbko gmuzglurxm.kszagbmvbgrpgamugmv gvgmsa.vl gamu
amkso gbmrlcgmuzauopgqrbmgimro ;g.sbgbmugivsauagkpgasawrirklgunuztg vt
fkzugvl gfkzugrlizuvarlx,gvl gvbgovabgxzkqrlxgswgbkgvgfvlrpuabgwzkkp,gbmu
wkkzgqkfvlgqvagzu siu gbkgbmugluiuaarbtgkpgivsarlxgrbgbkg.ugwzkiovrfu grl
muzgwvzramgimszim,gbmvbgqmkunuzgmv g klugbmvbg uu gvl gqkso gpzvlcot
iklpuaagrb,gamug r glkbgklotgwzkfraugbkgpkzxrnu,g.sbgfkzuknuzgbkgfvzzt
mrf,grpgmugorcu gbmugfkbrkl;gqmuzuswklgvgtkslxgpuookqgbmvbgauznu gmuzgrl
bmugesvorbtgkpgvgov.kszuz,gulikszvxu g.tgbmragwzkiovfvbrkl,g uiovzu gbmvb
mugmv gklugmkor vtgpksl gmuz,gmvnrlxgbvculgbkkgfsimgkpgbmug.kbbou,gak
pvabgvaouuwg.tgbmugimrflutgvl grlgakgrl uiulbgvgwkabszu,gbmvbgmugikso 
iklnulrulbotg kgmrag.sarluaagqrbmksbgqvcrlxgmuz;gvl gbmutgtubgornu
bkxubmuzgfvlgvl gqrpuj

Rbgragbzsugbmvbgvlbresrbtgmvaglkbgfsimg uizru gbmragnriu;gbmugqzrbrlxa
unulgkpgaunuzvogwmrokakwmuzagawuvcgnuztgbul uzotgkpgrb,gvl gunulgvfklxab
bmugAbkriagbmuzugvzugakfugqmkgv nraugpkocagbkgxrnugbmufauonuagakfubrfua
bmugor.uzbtgbkg zrlc,glvt,gbkg zslculluaa,gbkgzupzuamgbmugakso:

gggggggggg“Mkigeskesugnrzbsbsfgeskl vfgiuzbvfrlu,gfvxlsf
ggggggggggAkizvbufgwvofvfgwzkfuzsraaugpuzslbj”

ggggg[“Rlgbmragbzrvogkpgwkquzgpkzfuzotgbmutgzuovbugbmvbgbmugxzuvb
gggggAkizvbuag uauznu gbmugwvofj”--IkzlubjgXvoosa,gUwj,grjg47j]

Bmvbgiulakzgvl gzuwzknuzgkpgkbmuza,gIvbk,gqvagzuwzkvimu gbmvbgmugqvagv
mvz g zrlcuz:

gggggggggggggggggggg“LvzzvbszgubgwzrairgIvbklra
ggggggggggggggggggggAvuwugfuzkgivosraaugnrzbsaj”

ggggg[“Vl gkpgko gIvbkgrbgragavr ,gbmvbgmragikszvxugqvagkpbulgqvzfu gqrbm
gggggqrluj”--Mkzviu,gK j,ghhrjg3,g11j--IvbkgbmugUo uzj]

Itzsa,gbmvbgakgzulkqlu gcrlx,gvfklxabgbmugkbmuzgesvorbruag.tgqmrimgmu
iovrfu gbkg.ugwzupuzzu g.upkzugmrag.zkbmuzgVzbvhuzhua,gszxu gbmra
uhiuoouliu,gbmvbgmugikso g zrlcgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugbmvlgmujggVl grlgbmu
.uabgxknuzlu glvbrklagbmragbzrvogkpgacroogrlg zrlcrlxgragnuztgfsimgrl
saujggRgmvnugmuvz gAronrsa,gvlguhiuooulbgwmtarirvlgkpgWvzra,gavtgbmvb
ouabgbmug rxuabrnugpvisobruagkpgbmugabkfvimgamkso gxzkqgr ou,grbgquzuglkb
vfraagkliugvgfklbmgbkgzksaugbmufg.tgbmraguhiuaa,gvl gbkgawszgbmufgouab
bmutgamkso gxzkqg soogvl gzsabt;gvl gklugvsbmkzgbuooagsagbmvbgbmu
Wuzarvlagsau gbkgiklasobgv.ksbgbmurzgfkabgrfwkzbvlbgvppvrzagvpbuzg.urlx
quoogqvzfu gqrbmgqrluj

Ftgbvabugvl giklabrbsbrklgvzugxzuvbuzgulufruagbkgbmragnriugbmvlgft
 raikszau;gpkzg.uar uagbmvbgRguvarotgas.frbgftg.uorupgbkgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkp
vlirulbgkwrlrkla,gRgokkcgswklgrbgrl uu gvagvlgslfvlotgvl gabswr gnriu,
.sbgouaagfvorirksagvl gmszbpsogbmvlgbmugkbmuza,gqmrim,gvofkabgvoo,gfkzu
 rzuibotgykabougws.origakirubtjggVl grpgqugivllkbgwouvaugkszauonuag.sbgrb
fsabgikabgsagakfubmrlx,gvagbmutgmko ,gRgprl gbmragnriugikabagvgfvl’a
iklairuliugouaagbmvlgbmugkbmuza,g.uar uagbmvbgrbgragkpglkg rpprisob
wzuwvzvbrkl,glkzgmvz gbkg.ugpksl ,gvgiklar uzvbrklglkbgvobkxubmuzgbkg.u
 uawrau jggVgfvlgquoogv nvliu g.kbmgrlg rxlrbtgvl gvxu,gvfklxabgbmzuu
wzrlirwvogikffk rbruagbmvbgmugavr gzufvrlu gbkgmrfgkpgorpu,gzuicklu gbk
fugbmragpkzgklu,gvl gqmuzugqkso gvgfvlgfkzugysabotgprl grbgbmvlgvfklxab
bmuglvbszvogiklnulruliua?gg.sbgmug r glkbgbvcugrbgzrxmb,gpkzg uorivitgvl 
bmugiszrksagimkriugkpgqrluagragbmuzurlgbkg.ugvnkr u jggRpgtksgpksl gtksz
wouvaszugswklg zrlcrlxgkpgbmug.uab,gtksgikl uflgtkszauopgbkgbmugwulvliu
kpg zrlcrlxgkpgbmugqkzabjggTkszgbvabugfsabg.ugfkzugrl rppuzulbgvl gpzuu;
akg uorivbugvgwvovbugraglkbgzuesrzu gbkgfvcugvgxkk gbkwuzjggBmugXuzfvla
 zrlcgvofkabgrl rppuzulbotgkpgvoogqrluagqrbmg uorxmb;gbmurzg.sarluaagra
bkgwkszg kqlgvl glkbgbkgbvabu;gvl grb’agakgfsimgbmug.ubbuzgpkzgbmuf:
bmurzgwouvaszugragakgfsimgbmugfkzugwoulbrpsogvl gluvzuzgvbgmvl j

Auikl ot,gbkg zrlc,gvpbuzgbmugPzulimgpvamrkl,g.sbgvbgbqkgfuvoa,gvl gbmul
nuztgfk uzvbuot,gragbkg.ugbkkgawvzrlxgkpgbmugpvnkszagkpgbmugxk jggBmuzu
ragfkzugbrfugvl giklabvlitgzuesrzu gbmvlgakjggBmugvlirulbagawulbgqmkou
lrxmbagrlgbmraguhuzirau,gvl gkpbbrfuagv  u gbmug vtgpkookqrlxgbkgucugrb
ksb,gvl gbmuzupkzugqugvzugbkgbvcugxzuvbuzgor.uzbtgvl gabricgiokauzgbkgksz
qkzcjggRgmvnugauulgvgxzuvbgokz gkpgftgbrfu,gvgfvlgkpgmrxmgulbuzwzraugvl 
pvfksagasiiuaa,gbmvbgqrbmksbgaubbrlxgmrfauopgbk’b,gvl gvpbuzgmragkz rlvzt
zvbugkpg zrlcrlxgvbgfuvoa,g zvlcglkbgfsimgouaagbmvlgprnugesvzbagkpgqrlu,
vl gvbgmragxkrlxgvqvtgvwwuvzu g.sbgbkkgqraugvl g raizuub,gbkgbmu
 ubzrfulbgkpgkszgvppvrzajggBmugwouvaszugqugmko grlguabuufgpkzgbmugikszau
kpgkszgornuagksxmbgbkgmvnugvgxzuvbuzgamvzugkpgkszgbrfug u rivbu gbkgrb;
qugamkso ,gorcugamkw.ktagvl gov.kszuza,gzupsauglkgkiivarklglkzgkfrbgvlt
kwwkzbslrbtgkpg zrlcrlx,gvl gvoqvtagmvnugrbgrlgkszgfrl ajggFubmrlcagqu
unuztg vtgv.zr xugvl giszbvrogbmugsaugkpgqrlu,gvl gbmvbgbmugvpbuz
.zuvcpvaba,g rlluzgalvbimua,gvl gikoovbrklagRgsau gbkgauugrlgftgpvbmuz’a
mksau,gqmulgRgqvagvg.kt,gquzugfkzugsasvogvl gpzuesulbgbmulgbmvlglkqj

Ragrbgbmvbgqugwzubul gbkgvgzupkzfvbrkl?ggBzsot,glk:g.sbgrbgfvtg.ugqugvzu
fkzugv  ribu gbkgNulsagbmvlgkszgpvbmuzagquzujggBmutgvzugbqkguhuziraua
bmvbgbmqvzbgvl gmrl uzgklugvlkbmuzgrlgbmurzgnrxkszjggOuimuztgquvculagksz
abkfvimgklgbmugklugar u;gvl gklgbmugkbmuzgak.zrubtgzul uzagsagfkzugawzsiu
vl gvfkzksagpkzgbmuguhuziraugkpgoknuj

‘Bragqkl uzpsogqmvbgabzvlxugabkzruagRgmvnugmuvz gftgpvbmuzgbuoogkpgbmu
imvabrbtgkpgbmvbgvxugqmuzurlgmugornu jggRbgqvagpkzgmrfgbkgavtgrb,g.urlx
.kbmg.tgvzbgvl glvbszugisbgksbgvl gprlramu gpkzgbmugauznriugkpgov ruaj
Mugawkcugquoogvl gorbbou:gunuzgfrhrlxgmragovlxsvxugqrbmgakfugroosabzvbrkl
ksbgkpgvsbmkzagfkabgrlgsau,guawuirvootgrlgAwvlram,gvl gvfklxgbmugAwvlram
mugqmkfgbmutgivoou gFvzisagVszuorsa--[gXsunvzv’agXko ulg.kkcgkpgFvzisa
VszuorsagVlbklrlsaj]--qvagkz rlvzrotgrlgmragfksbmjggMrag.umvnrkszgqva
xulbotgxzvnu,gmsf.ou,gvl gnuztgfk uab;gmugqvagnuztgakorirbksagkpgluvbluaa
vl gwzkwzrubtg.kbmgrlgmragwuzaklgvl giokbmua,gqmubmuzgklgmkzau.vicgkz
vpkkb,gmugqvagfklabzksaotgwslibsvogrlgmragqkz ;gvl gkpgvgiklairuliugvl 
zuorxrklgxuluzvootgbul rlxgzvbmuzgbkqvz agaswuzabrbrklgbmvlgkbmuzqrauj
Pkzgvgfvlgkpgorbbougabvbszu,gnuztgabzklx,gquoogwzkwkzbrklu ,gvl gquoo
clrb;gkpgvgwouvarlxgikslbulvliugrliorlrlxgbkg.zkql,gvl gnuztgv zkrbgrl
vooglk.ouguhuzirauajggRgmvnugtubgrlgbmugmksaugbkg.ugauulgivluagwkszu 
psoogkpgouv ,gqrbmgqmrimgbmutgavtgmuguhuzirau gmragvzfagpkzgbmzkqrlxgbmu
.vzgkzgbmugabklu,gkzgrlgpulirlx;gvl gamkuagqrbmgouv ulgakouagbkgfvcugmrf
orxmbuzgpkzgzsllrlxgkzgouvwrlxjggKpgmragnvsobrlxgmugmvagoupbgorbbou
frzviouag.umrl gmrf:gRgmvnugauulgmrfgqmulgwvabgbmzuugaikzugovsxmgvbgksz
uhuziraua,gvl gbmzkqgmrfauopgrlgmragpszzu gxkqlgrlbkgbmugav  ou,gfvcugbmu
bkszgkpgvgbv.ougswklgmragbmsf.agvl gaivziugunuzgfkslbgbmugabvrzagrlbkgmra
imvf.uzgqrbmksbgbvcrlxgbmzuugkzgpkszgabuwagvbgvgbrfujgg.sbgvagbkgqmvbgR
qvagawuvcrlxgkpg.upkzu;gmugavr gbmuzugqvagaivziugklugqkfvlgkpgesvorbtgkp
roogpvfugrlgbmugqmkougwzknrliu:gmugqkso gbuoogkpgabzvlxugiklpr uliua,gvl 
akfugkpgbmufgmragkql,gqrbmgnrzbsksagqkful,gpzuugpzkfgvltgfvlluzgkp
asawrirklgkpgroo,gvl gpkzgmragkqlgwvzbgakouflotgaqkzugmugqvagvgnrzxrlgvb
mragfvzzrvxu;gvl gtubgrbgqvagvpbuzgvgoklxgwzvibriugkpgvzfag.utkl gbmu
fkslbvrla,gkpgqmrimgqvzagmugoupbgsagvgykszlvogsl uzgmragkqlgmvl ,gqmuzurl
mugmvagxrnulgvgwzuiraugviikslbgpzkfgwkrlbgbkgwkrlbgkpgvoogwvaavxua,g.kbm
zuovbrlxgbkgbmugws.origvl gbkgmrfauopjggVl gmugqva,gfkzuknuz,gfvzzru gvb
vgquoogv nvliu gfvbszrbt,grlgbmugtuvzg1528,gbmugbmzuu-vl -bmrzbrubmgtuvz
kpgmragvxu,gswklgmragqvtgmkfugpzkfgRbvotjgg.sbgoubgsagzubszlgbkgksz
.kbbouaj

Bmugrlikffk rbruagkpgko gvxu,gbmvbgabvl grlgluu gkpgakfugzupzuamfulbgvl 
aswwkzb,gfrxmbgqrbmgzuvaklg.uxubgrlgfugvg uarzugkpgbmragpvisobt,grbg.urlx
vagrbgquzugbmugovabgwouvaszugbmugikszaugkpgtuvzag uwzrnuagsagkpjggBmu
lvbszvogmuvb,gavtgbmugxkk -puookqa,gprzabgauvbagrbauopgrlgbmugpuub:gbmvb
ikliuzlagrlpvlit;gbmuliugrbgfkslbagrlbkgbmugfr  ougzuxrkl,gqmuzugrbgfvcua
vgoklxgv.k ugvl gwzk siua,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmugakougbzsugwouvaszuagkp
msfvlgorpu;gvoogkbmuzgwouvaszuagrlgikfwvzraklgaouuw;gbkqvz agbmugul ,
orcugvgnvwkszgbmvbgabroogfkslbagswqvz ,grbgvzzrnuagvbgbmugbmzkvb,gqmuzu
rbgfvcuagrbagprlvogzuar uliu,gvl giklios uagbmugwzkxzuaajggRg kglkb,
lunuzbmuouaa,gsl uzabvl gmkqgvgfvlgivlguhbul gbmugwouvaszugkpg zrlcrlx
.utkl gbmrzab,gvl gpkzxugrlgmragrfvxrlvbrklgvlgvwwubrbugvzbrprirvogvl 
vxvrlabglvbszu;gftgabkfvimgqkso glkbgwzkiuu gakgpvz;grbgmvagulksxmgbkg k
bkg uvogqrbmgqmvbgrbgbvcuagrlgpkzgrbagluiuaarbtjggFtgiklabrbsbrklgraglkb
bkgivzugpkzg zrlcg.sbgvagpkookqrlxguvbrlxgvl gqvamrlxg kqlgftgfuvb,gvl 
pkzgbmvbgzuvaklgftgovabg zvsxmbgragvoqvtagbmugxzuvbuabjggVl gauurlxgbmvb
rlgko gvxugqugmvnugkszgwvovbugpszzu gqrbmgwmouxfagkzg uwzvnu g.tgakfu
kbmuzgroogiklabrbsbrkl,gbmugqrlugbvabuag.ubbuzgbkgsagvagbmugwkzuagvzu
iouvluzgqvamu gvl govr gfkzugkwuljggVbgouvab,gRgauo kfgbvabugbmugprzab
xovaagquoojggVlvimvzaragqkl uzu gbmvbgbmugXzuucag zvlcgrlgxzuvbuzgxovaaua
bkqvz agbmugul gkpgvgfuvogbmvlgvbgbmug.uxrllrlx;gqmrimgqva,gRgaswwkau,
pkzgbmugavfugzuvaklgbmugXuzfvlag kgbmugavfu,gqmkgbmulg.uxrlgbmug.vbbougkp
 zrlcj

Wovbkgpkz.r agimro zulgqrlugbroogurxmbuulgtuvzagkpgvxu,gvl gbkgxubg zslc
broogpkzbt;g.sb,gvpbuzgpkzbt,gxrnuagbmufgouvnugbkgwouvaugbmufauonua,gvl 
bkgfrhgvgorbbougor.uzvootgrlgbmurzgpuvabagbmugrlposuliugkpg rkltaka,gbmvb
xkk g urbtgqmkgzuabkzuagbkgtkslxuzgfulgbmurzgxvrubtgvl gbkgko gfulgbmurz
tksbm;gqmkgfkoorpruagbmugwvaarklagkpgbmugakso,gvagrzklgragakpbulu g.t
przu;gvl grlgmragOvduagvookqagasimgfuzztgfuubrlxa,gwzknr u gbmutgmvnugv
 raizuubgimrupgbkgxknuzlgvl gcuuwgbmufgrlgkz uz,gvagxkk gvl gkpgxzuvb
sbrorbt;g zslculluaag.urlx,gmugavta,gvgbzsugvl giuzbvrlgbzrvogkpgunuzt
klu’aglvbszu,gvl ,gqrbmvo,gprbgbkgrlawrzugko gfulgqrbmgfubbougbkg rnuzb
bmufauonuagrlg vlirlxgvl gfsari;gbmrlxagkpgxzuvbgsau,gvl gbmvbgbmutg vzu
lkbgvbbufwbgqmulgak.uzjggMu,gfkzuknuz,gavtagbmvbgqrlugragv.ougbkgaswwot
bmugaksogqrbmgbufwuzvliugvl gbmug.k tgqrbmgmuvobmjggLunuzbmuouaa,gbmuau
zuabzribrkla,grlgwvzbg.kzzkqu gpzkfgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvla,gwouvaugmrf:gbmvb
fulgpkz.uvzguhiuaauagrlgbmuguhwu rbrklagkpgqvz;gbmvbgunuztgys xugvl 
fvxrabzvbugv.abvrlgpzkfgrbgqmulgv.ksbgbmugv frlrabzvbrklagkpgmragwoviugkz
bmugiklasobvbrklagkpgbmugws.origvppvrza;gbmvbgbmug vtgraglkbgbkg.u
ufwoktu gqrbmgrb,gbmvbg.urlxgvgbrfug sugbkgkbmuzgkiiswvbrkla,glkzgbmu
lrxmbgklgqmrimgvgfvlgrlbul agbkgxubgimro zulj

‘Bragavr gbmvbgbmugwmrokakwmuzgAbrowk,gqmulgkwwzuaau gqrbmgvxu,gwszwkauot
mvabulu gmragul g.tg zrlcrlxgwszugqrlujggBmugavfugbmrlx,g.sbglkbg uarxlu 
.tgmrf,g uawvbimu gvoakgbmugwmrokakwmuzgVziuarovsaj

.sbg‘bragvlgko gvl gwouvavlbgesuabrkl,gqmubmuzgbmugaksogkpgvgqraugfvlgivl
.ugknuzikfug.tgbmugabzulxbmgkpgqrlu?

ggggggggggggggg“Argfslrbvugv mr.ubgnrfgavwrulbrvuj”

Bkgqmvbgnvlrbtg kuagbmugxkk gkwrlrklgqugmvnugkpgkszauonuagwsamgsa?ggBmu
fkabgzuxsovzgvl gfkabgwuzpuibgaksogrlgbmugqkzo gmvag.sbgbkkgfsimgbkg kgbk
cuuwgrbauopgswzrxmb,gvl gpzkfg.urlxgknuzbmzkqlg.tgrbagkqlgquvcluaaj
Bmuzugraglkbgklugkpgvgbmksavl gbmvbgragzrxmbgvl gaubbou gakgfsimgvagklu
frlsbugrlgvgqmkougorpu,gvl gbmvbgfvtglkbgnuztgquoog ks.b,gqmubmuz
viikz rlxgbkgmuzglvbszvogikl rbrklgamugunuzgivlg.u;g.sbgbkgykrlgiklabvlit
bkgrbgragmuzgsbfkabgwuzpuibrkl;gRgfuvlgqmulglkbmrlxgamkso gykabougvl 
 raikfwkaugmuz,gqmrimgvgbmksavl gviir ulbagfvtg kjgg‘Bragbkgfsimgwszwkau
bmvbgbmugxzuvbgwkubgOsizubrsagcuuwagasimgvgiovbbuzgqrbmgmragwmrokakwmt,
qmul,g.umko !ggmugxkuagfv gqrbmgvgoknugwmrobzujggRagrbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu 
bmvbgvlgvwkwouhtgqrooglkbgabslgAkizvbuagvagquoogvagvgwkzbuz?ggAkfugful
mvnugpkzxkbbulgbmurzgkqlglvfuag.tgbmugnrkouliugkpgvg rauvau;gvl gvgaorxmb
qksl gmvagbszlu gbmugys xfulbgkpgkbmuzagbkwat-bszntjggOubgmrfg.ugvagqrau
vagmugqroo,gvpbuzgvoogmugrag.sbgvgfvl;gvl gbmvlgbmvbgqmvbgragbmuzugfkzu
pzvro,gfkzugfrauzv.ou,gkzgfkzuglkbmrlx?ggQra kfg kuaglkbgpkziugksz
lvbszvog rawkarbrkla,

ggggggggggggggg“As kzuagrbvesu,gubgwvookzufguharabuzugbkbk
gggggggggggggggIkzwkzu,gubgrlpzrlxrgorlxsvf,gnkiufesugv.kzrzr,
gggggggggggggggIvorxvzugkisoka,gakluzugvszua,gasiir uzugvzbsa,
ggggggggggggggg ufesugiklir uzu,guhgvlrfrgbuzzkzu,gnr ufsaj”

ggggg[“Aquvbgvl gwvouluaagikfugknuzgbmugqmkoug.k t,gbmugbklxsugra
gggggzul uzu gwkquzouaa,gbmugnkriug ruagvqvt,gbmugutuagvzug vzculu ,
gggggbmuzugragzrlxrlxgrlgbmuguvza,gbmugorf.agarlcgsl uzgsag.tgbmu
gggggrlposuliugkpgpuvzj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg155j]

mugfsabgamsbgmragutuagvxvrlabgbmug.okqgbmvbgbmzuvbulagmrf;gmugfsab
bzuf.ougswklgbmugfvzxrlgkpgvgwzuirwriu,gorcugvgimro ;glvbszugmvnrlx
zuauznu gbmuaugorxmbgfvzcagkpgmuzgvsbmkzrbt,glkbgbkg.ugpkziu g.tgksz
zuvaklgvl gbmugabkrignrzbsu,gbkgbuvimgfvlgmragfkzbvorbtgvl gkszgquvcluaa;
mugbszlagwvougqrbmgpuvz,gzu gqrbmgamvfu,gvl gxzkvlagqrbmgbmugimkori,grp
lkbgqrbmg uawuzvbugksbizt,gvbgouvabgqrbmgmkvzaugvl g.zkculgnkriu:

ggggggggggggggg“Msfvlrgvgauglrmrogvorulsfgwsbubj”

ggggg[“Oubgmrfglkbgbmrlcgmrfauopguhufwbgpzkfgbmvbgqmrimgragrlir ulbvogbk
gggggfulgrlgxuluzvoj”--Buzuliu,gMuvsbkl,grjg1,g25j]

Bmugwkuba,gbmvbgpurxlgvoogbmrlxagvbgwouvaszu,g vzuglkbgviesrbgbmurz
xzuvbuabgmuzkuagkpgbuvza:

gggggggggg“Arigpvbszgoviztfvla,giovaaresugrffrbbrbgmv.ulvaj”

ggggg[“Bmsagmugawuvca,gquuwrlx,gvl gbmulgaubagavrogqrbmgmragpouubj”
gggggg--Vulur ,gnrjgrj]

‘Bragaspprirulbgpkzgvgfvlgbkgisz.gvl gfk uzvbugmragrliorlvbrkla,gpkz
bkbvootgbkgaswwzuaagbmufgraglkbgrlgmrfgbkg kjggUnulgkszgxzuvbgWosbvzim,
bmvbguhiuooulbgvl gwuzpuibgys xugkpgmsfvlgvibrkla,gqmulgmugauuag.zsbsa
vl gBkzesvbsagcroogbmurzgimro zul,g.uxrlagbkg ks.bgqmubmuzgnrzbsugikso 
wzkiuu gakgpvz,gvl gbkgesuabrklgqmubmuzgbmuaugwuzaklagmv glkbgzvbmuzg.uul
abrfsovbu g.tgakfugkbmuzgwvaarklj--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgWs.orikov,gijgg3j]
--Voogvibrklaguhiuu rlxgbmugkz rlvztg.ksl agvzugorv.ougbkgarlrabuz
rlbuzwzubvbrkl,gpkzgvagfsimgvagkszgorcrlxglkgfkzugmko agqrbmgqmvbgra
v.knugbmvlgqrbmgqmvbgrag.uokqgrbj

Oubgsagouvnugbmvbgkbmuzgauib,gbmvbgaubagswgvlguhwzuaagwzkpuaarklgkp
aikzlpsogaswuzrkzrbt--[BmugAbkriaj]--:g.sbgqmulgunulgrlgbmvbgauib,
zuwsbu gbmugfkabgesrubgvl gxulbou,gqugmuvzgbmuaugzmk kfklbv uagkp
Fubzk kzsa:

gggggggggg“Kiiswvnrgbu,gPkzbslv,gvbesugiuwr:gkfluaesugv rbsagbska
ggggggggggrlbuziosargsbgv gfugvawrzvzuglklgwkaaua;”

ggggg[“Pkzbslu,gRgmvnugxkbgbmug.ubbuzgkpgbmuu,gvl gmvnugfv ugvoogbmu
gggggvnulsuagakgaszugbmksgivlabglkbgikfugvbgfuj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg9j]

qmulgVlvhvzimsa,g.tgikffvl gkpgLrikizuklgbmugbtzvlbgkpgItwzsa,gqvagwsb
rlbkgvgabklugfkzbvz,gvl govr gswklgqrbmgfvsoagkpgrzkl,giuvauaglkbgbkgavt,
“Abzrcu,g.vbbuz,g.zuvc;g‘braglkbgVlvhvzimsa,g‘brag.sbgmragamuvbmgbmvbgtks
wksl gvl g.zvtgak”;gqmulgqugmuvzgkszgfvzbtzagiztgksbgbkgbmugbtzvlbgpzkf
bmugfr  ougkpgbmugpovfu,g“Bmragar ugragzkvabu gulksxm,gpvoogbkgvl guvb,
rbgragulksxmg klu;gpvoogbkgqkzcgqrbmgbmugkbmuz;”gqmulgqugmuvzgbmugimro 
rlgYkauwmsa’gbkzlgwruiu-fuvogqrbmgwrliuza,g uptrlxgVlbrkimsa,gvl giztrlx
ksbgqrbmgvgiklabvlbgvl gvaaszu gnkriu:g“Btzvlb,gbmksgokauabgbmtgov.ksz,
Rgvfgabroogvbguvau;gqmuzugragbmugwvrl,gqmuzugvzugbmugbkzfulbagqrbmgqmrim
bmksg r abgakgbmzuvbulgfu?ggRagbmragvoogbmksgivlabg k?ggFtgiklabvlit
bkzfulbagbmuugfkzugbmvlgbmtgizsuobtg kuagfujggKgwrbrpsogikqvz ,gbmks
pvrlbuab,gvl gRgxzkqgabzklxuz;gfvcugfugikfwovrl,gfvcugfug.ul ,gfvcugfu
truo grpgbmksgivlab;gulikszvxugbmtgxsvz a,gimuuzgswgbmtguhuisbrkluza;
auu,gauugbmutgpvrlb,gvl givlg kglkgfkzu;gvzfgbmuf,gpouamgbmufgvluq,gawsz
bmufgsw”;gbzsot,gvgfvlgfsabgiklpuaagbmvbgbmuzugragakfugwmzuldt,gakfu
pszt,gmkqgmkotgakunuz,gbmvbgvbgbmvbgbrfugwkaauaauagbmkaugaksoajggQmulgqu
ikfugbkgbmuaugAbkrivogavoorua:g“Rgmv gzvbmuzg.ugfv gbmvlgnkoswbsksa,”gv
avtrlxgkpgVlbrabmuluajggQmulgAuhbrsagbuooagsa,g“mugmv gzvbmuzg.ugpubbuzu 
qrbmgvpporibrklgbmvlgwouvaszu”:gqmulgUwriszsagbvcuagswklgmrfgbkgwovtgqrbm
mragxksb,gvl ,gzupsarlxgmuvobmgvl guvau,g upruagvoogbkzfulba,gvl 
 uawrarlxgbmugouaauzgwvrla,gvag ra vrlrlxgbkgiklbul gqrbmgbmuf,gmugiknuba
vl givooagksbgpkzgkbmuzagamvzwuz,gfkzugnrkoulb,gvl gfkzugqkzbmtgkpgmrf;

gggggggggg“Awsfvlbufesug vzr,gwuikzvgrlbuzgrluzbrv,gnkbra
ggggggggggKwbvbgvwzsf,gvsbgpsonsfg uaiul uzugfklbugoukluf:”

ggggg[“Vl grlabuv gkpgbrfr g.uvaba,gqramuagbmugpkvfrlxg.kvzgkzgbvqltgorkl
gggggqkso gikfugpzkfgbmugfkslbvrlj”--VUlur ,grnjg158j]

qmkg.sbgfsabgiklios ugbmvbgbmuaugvzugqro gavooruagwsamu gklg.tgvgikszvxu
bmvbgmvag.zkculgokkaugpzkfgrbagwoviu?ggKszgaksogivllkbgpzkfgmuzgkqlgauvb
zuvimgakgmrxm;g‘bragluiuaavztgamugfsabgouvnugrb,gzvraugmuzauopgsw,gvl ,
bvcrlxgbmug.zr ougrlgmuzgbuubm,gbzvlawkzbgmuzgfvlgakgpvzgbmvbgmugamvoo
vpbuzqvz agmrfauopg.ugvabklramu gvbgqmvbgmugmvag klu;gva,grlgqvz,gbmu
muvbgkpg.vbbougrfwuoagxuluzksagako ruzagbkgwuzpkzfgbmrlxagkpgakgrlprlrbu
 vlxuz,gvagvpbuzqvz a,gzuikoouibrlxgbmuf,gbmutgbmufauonuagvzugbmugprzab
bkgqkl uzgvb;gvagrbgvoakgpvzuagqrbmgbmugwkuba,gqmkgvzugkpbulgzvwbgqrbm
v frzvbrklgkpgbmurzgkqlgqzrbrlxa,gvl gclkqglkbgqmuzugvxvrlgbkgprl gbmu
bzvicgbmzksxmgqmrimgbmutgwuzpkzfu gakgprlugvgIvzuuz;gqmrimgvoakgragrl
bmufgivoou gpsztgvl gzvwbszujggVl gvagWovbkgavta,g‘bragbkglkgwszwkaugpkz
vgak.uz-frl u gfvlgbkgclkicgvbgbmug kkzgkpgwkuat:gakgVzrabkbougavta,gbmvb
lkguhiuooulbgaksograguhufwbgpzkfgvgfrhbszugkpgfv luaa;gvl gmugmvagzuvakl
bkgivoogvoogbzvlawkzba,gmkqgikfful v.ougakunuz,gbmvbgaszwvaagkszgkql
ys xfulbgvl gsl uzabvl rlx,gfv luaa;gpkzvafsimgvagqra kfgragvgzuxsovz
xknuzlfulbgkpgbmugakso,gqmrimgragivzzru gklgqrbmgfuvaszugvl gwzkwkzbrkl,
vl gpkzgqmrimgamugragbkgmuzauopgzuawklar.oujggWovbkgvzxsuagbmsa,gbmvbgbmu
pvisobtgkpgwzkwmuatrlxgragakgpvzgv.knugsa,gbmvbgqugfsabg.ugksbgkp
kszauonuagqmulgqugfu  ougqrbmgrb,gvl gkszgwzs uliugfsabgurbmuzg.u
k.abzsibu g.tgaouuwgkzgaricluaa,gkzgorpbu gpzkfgmuzgwoviug.tgakfu
iuouabrvogzvwbszuj




IMVWBUZgRRR

VgISABKFgKPgBMUgRAOUgKPgIUV

gggggggggg[IkajggIuvgragbmugpkzfgkpgbmuglvfugxrnulg.tgWorlt]

Rpgbkgwmrokakwmraug.u,gvag‘brag uprlu ,gbkg ks.b,gfsimgfkzugbkgqzrbugvb
zvl kfgvl gwovtgbmugpkko,gvagRg k,gksxmbgbkg.ugzuwsbu g ks.brlx,gpkzgrb
ragpkzglknriuagvl gpzuamfulgbkgrlesrzugvl gbkg rawsbu,gvl gpkzgbmu
imvrzfvlgbkgfk uzvbugvl g ubuzfrluj

Ftgfk uzvbkzgragbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmug rnrlugqroo,gbmvbgxknuzlagsagqrbmksb
iklbzv ribrkl,gvl gbmvbgragauvbu gv.knugbmuaugmsfvlgvl gnvrl
iklbuabvbrklaj

Wmrorwgmvnrlxgpkzir.otgulbuzu grlbkgWuokwklluasa,gvl gakfugklugavtrlxgbk
 vfr vagbmvbgbmugOviu vufklrvlagquzugorcuotgnuztgfsimgbkgasppuzgrpgbmut
 r glkbgrlgbrfugzuiklirougbmufauonuagbkgmragpvnksz:gg“Qmt,gtksgwrbrpso
puookq,”gzuworu gmu,g“qmvbgivlgbmutgasppuzgqmkg kglkbgpuvzgbkg ru?”ggRb
.urlxgvoakgvacu gkpgVxra,gqmrimgqvtgvgfvlgfrxmbgornugpzuu?gg“Qmt,”gavr 
mu,g“.tg uawrarlxg uvbmj”ggBmuau,gvl gvgbmksavl gkbmuzgavtrlxagbkgbmu
avfugwszwkau,g rabrlibotgaksl gkpgakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgbmugwvbrulb
vbbul rlxgbmugabzkcugkpg uvbmgqmulgrbgamvoogikfu;gpkzgbmuzugvzugaunuzvo
viir ulbagrlgorpugpvzgqkzaugbkgasppuzgbmvlg uvbmgrbauopjggQrbluaagbmu
Oviu vufklrvlg.ktgbvculg.tgVlbrxklsa,gvl gako gpkzgvgaovnu,gqmkg.urlxg.t
mragfvabuzgikffvl u gbkgakfug.vaugufwoktfulb:g“Bmksgamvobgauu,”gavtagbmu
.kt,g“qmkfgbmksgmvabg.ksxmb;grbgqkso g.ugvgamvfugpkzgfugbkgauznu,g.urlx
akgluvzgbmugzuvimgkpgor.uzbt,”gvl gmvnrlxgakgavr ,gbmzuqgmrfauopgpzkfgbmu
bkwgkpgbmugmksaujggVlbrwvbuzgaunuzuotgbmzuvbulrlxgbmugOviu vufklrvla,
bmvbgmugfrxmbgbmug.ubbuzgrliorlugbmufgbkgviesruaiugrlgvgiuzbvrlg ufvl gkp
mra:g“Rpgbmksgbmzuvbuluabgsagqrbmgfkzugbmvlg uvbm,”gzuworu gbmut,g“qu
amvoogbmugfkzugqroorlxotg ru”;gvl gbkgWmrorw,gmvnrlxgqzrbbulgbmufgqkz 
bmvbgmugqkso gpzsabzvbugvoogbmurzgulbuzwzraua:g“Qmvb,gqrobgbmksgvoak
mrl uzgsagpzkfg trlx?”ggBmragragbmugfuvlrlxgkpgbmugaulbuliu,g“Bmvbgbmu
qraugfvlgornuagvagoklxgvagmugksxmb,glkbgakgoklxgvagmugivl;gvl gbmvbgbmu
fkabgk.orxrlxgwzuaulbgLvbszugmvagfv ugsa,gvl gqmrimgbvcuagpzkfgsagvoo
ikokszgkpgikfwovrlbgkpgkszgikl rbrkl,gragbkgmvnug uornuzu grlbkgkszgkql
isabk tgbmugcutagkpgorpu;gamugmvagklotgkz uzu ,gklug kkzgrlbkgorpu,g.sbgv
msl zu gbmksavl gqvtagksbjggQugfvtg.ugabzvrbulu gpkzguvzbmgbkgornugswkl,
.sbguvzbmgaspprirulbgbkg rugswklgivlglunuzg.ugqvlbrlx,gvag.krkivosa
vlaquzu gbmugZkfvlaj”--[Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,ghrrrjgg56j]--Qmtg kabgbmks
ikfwovrlgkpgbmragqkzo ?ggrbg ubvrlagbmuuglkb;gbmtgkqlgikqvz riugragbmu
ivsau,grpgbmksgornuabgrlgwvrljggBmuzugluu aglkgfkzugbkg rug.sbgbkgqroogbk
 ru:

ggggggggggggggg“S.resugfkzaguab;gkwbrfugmkigivnrbg usaj
gggggggggggggggUzrwuzugnrbvfglufkglklgmkfrlrgwkbuab;
gggggggggggggggVbglufkgfkzbuf;gfroougv gmvligv rbsagwvbulbj”

ggggg[“ uvbmgragunuztqmuzu:gmuvnulgmvagquoogwzknr u gpkzgbmvbjggVltgklu
gggggfvtg uwzrnugsagkpgorpu;glkgklugivlg uwzrnugsagkpg uvbmjggBkg uvbm
gggggbmuzugvzugvgbmksavl gvnulsuaj”--Auluiv,gBmu.:,gr,gR,g151j]

Lurbmuzgragrbgvgzuirwugpkzgklug rauvaugklot;g uvbmgragbmugrlpvoor.ougiszu
kpgvoo;g‘bragvgfkabgvaaszu gwkzbgbmvbgraglunuzgbkg.ugpuvzu ,gvl gnuzt
kpbulgbkg.ugaksxmbjggRbgikfuagvoogbkgklu,gqmubmuzgvgfvlgxrnugmrfauopgmra
ul ,gkzgabvtagbkgzuiurnugrbg.tgakfugkbmuzgfuvla;gqmubmuzgmugwvtag.upkzu
mrag vt,gkzgabvtgbroogmrag vtgkpgwvtfulbgikfu;gpzkfgqmuliuakunuzgrb
ikfua,grbgragabroogmra;grlgqmvbgwvzbgakunuzgbmugbmzuv g.zuvca,gbmuzu’a
bmugul gkpgbmugiosujggBmugfkabgnkoslbvztg uvbmgragbmugprluabjggOrpu
 uwul agswklgbmugwouvaszugkpgkbmuza;g uvbmgswklgkszgkqljggQugksxmbglkbgbk
viikffk vbugkszauonuagbkgkszgkqlgmsfkszgrlgvltbmrlxgakgfsimgvagrlgbmraj
Zuwsbvbrklgraglkbgikliuzlu grlgasimgvlgulbuzwzrau;g‘bragpkootgbkg.u
ikliuzlu g.tgvltgasimgvwwzumularkljgOrnrlxgragaovnuztgrpgbmugor.uzbtgkp
 trlxg.ugqvlbrlxjggBmugkz rlvztgfubmk gkpgiszugragivzzru gklgvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgorpu;gbmutgbkzfulbgsagqrbmgivsabria,grlirarkla,gvl 
vfwsbvbrklagkpgorf.a;gbmutgrlbuz ribgvorfulbgvl guhmvsabgkszg.okk ;gklu
abuwgpvzbmuzgvl gqugvzugiszu grl uu gvl guppuibsvootjggQmtgraglkbgbmu
ysxsovzgnurlgvagfsimgvbgkszg rawkavogvagbmugfu rvlgnurl?ggPkzgvg uawuzvbu
 rauvaugvg uawuzvbugiszujggAuznrsagbmugxzvffvzrvl,g.urlxgbkzfulbu gqrbm
bmugxksb,gikso gbmrlcgkpglkg.ubbuzgzufu tgbmvlgbkgvwwotgwkraklgbkgmra
ouxa,gbkg uwzrnugbmufgkpgbmurzgaulau;goubgbmufg.ugxksbtgvbgbmurzgqroo,gak
bmutgquzugrlaular.ougkpgwvrljggXk gxrnuagsagouvnugulksxmgbkgxkgqmulgMugra
wouvau gbkgzu siugsagbkgasimgvgikl rbrklgbmvbgbkgornugragpvzgqkzaugbmvl
bkg rujgg‘Bragquvcluaagbkgbzsicougsl uzgrlprzfrbrua,g.sbgrb’agfv luaagbk
lkszramgbmufjggBmugAbkriagavt,gbmvbgrbgragornrlxgviikz rlxgbkglvbszugrlgv
qraugfvlgbk,gbvcugmragouvnugkpgorpu,gunulgrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgwzkawuzrbt,
rpgmug kgrbgkwwkzbsluot;gvl grlgvgpkkogbkgwzkoklxgrb,gbmksxmgmug.u
frauzv.ou,gwzknr u gmug.uglkbgrl rxulbgkpgbmkaugbmrlxagqmrimgbmutgzuwsbu
bkg.ugviikz rlxgbkglvbszujggVagRg kglkbgkppul gbmugovqgvxvrlabgbmrunua
qmulgRguf.uddougftgkqlgfklutgvl gisbgftgkqlgwszau;glkzgbmvbgvxvrlab
rliul rvzruagqmulgRg.szlgftgkqlgqkk ;gakgvfgRglkbgsl uzgbmugovamgkpgbmkau
fv ugvxvrlabgfsz uzuzagpkzgmvnrlxg uwzrnu gftauopgkpgftgkqlgorpuj
Muxuarvagavr ,gbmvbgvagbmugikl rbrklgkpgorpug r ,gakgbmugikl rbrklgkp
 uvbmgksxmbgbkg uwul gswklgkszgkqlgimkriujggVl g rkxuluagfuubrlxgbmu
wmrokakwmuzgAwusarwwsa,gakg.okqlgswgqrbmgvlgrlnubuzvbug zkwatgbmvbgmugqva
pvrlgbkg.ugivzzru grlgvgorbbuz,gvl g.tgmrfgavosbu gqrbmgbmugikfworfulb,
“Rgqramgtksgxkk gmuvobmj”gg“Lkgmuvobmgbkgbmuu,”gzuworu gbmugkbmuz,
“qmkgvzbgiklbulbgbkgornugrlgasimgvgikl rbrklj”

Vl grlgpvib,glkbgoklxgvpbuz,gAwusarwwsa,gquvztgkpgakgovlxsramrlxgvgabvbu
kpgorpu,gpksl gvgfuvlagbkg ruj

.sbgbmrag kuaglkbgwvaagqrbmksbgv frbbrlxgvg rawsbu:gpkzgfvltgvzugkp
kwrlrklgbmvbgqugivllkbgesrbgbmragxvzzraklgkpgbmugqkzo gqrbmksbgbmu
uhwzuaagikffvl gkpgMrfgqmkgmvagwoviu gsagrlgrb;gvl gbmvbgrbgvwwuzbvrlagbk
Xk gqmkgmvagwoviu gsagmuzu,glkbgpkzgkszauonuagklotg.sbgpkzgMragXokztgvl 
bmugauznriugkpgkbmuza,gbkg rafraagsagqmulgrbgamvoog.uabgwouvaugMrf,gvl 
lkbgpkzgsagbkg uwvzbgqrbmksbgMragoriuliu:gbmvbgqugvzuglkbg.kzlgpkz
kszauonuagklot,g.sbgpkzgkszgikslbztgvoak,gbmugovqagkpgqmrimgzuesrzugvl
viikslbgpzkfgsagswklgbmugaikzugkpgbmurzgkqlgrlbuzuab,gvl gmvnugvlgvibrkl
kpgfvlaovsxmbuzgxkk gvxvrlabgsa;gvl grpgbmuaugpvrogbkgbvcugikxlravliugkp
bmugpvib,gqugvzugwslramu grlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo gvag uauzbuzagkpgkszg sbt:

ggggggggg“Wzkhrfvg url ugbululbgfvuabrgokiv,gesrgar.rgoubsf
ggggggggggRlaklbuagwuwuzuzugfvls,gosiufesugwuzkar
ggggggggggWzkruiuzugvlrfvaj”

ggggg[“Bmuliugbmugav gkluagkiiswtgbmugluhbgv.k ua,gqmk,gbmksxmgpzuu
gggggpzkfgxsrob,gquzug.tgbmurzgkqlgmvl agaovrl,gvl ,gmvbrlxgorxmb,
gggggaksxmbg uvbmj”--VUlur ,gnrjg434j]

Bmuzugragfkzugiklabvlitgrlgasppuzrlxgbmugimvrlgqugvzugbru gbkgbmvlgrl
.zuvcrlxgrb,gvl gfkzugwzuxlvlbgunr uliugkpgpkzbrbs ugrlgZuxsosagbmvlgrl
Ivbk;g‘bragrl raizubrklgvl grfwvbruliugbmvbgwsamgsagklgbkgbmuau
wzuirwriua:glkgviir ulbagivlgfvcugbzsugnrzbsugbszlgmuzg.vic;gamugauuca
vl gzuesrzuagunroa,gwvrla,gvl gxzrup,gvagbmugbmrlxag.tgqmrimgamugra
lkszramu gvl gaswwkzbu ;gbmugfulviuagkpgbtzvlba,gzvica,gvl gbkzbszua
auznugklotgbkgvlrfvbugvl gzksaugmuz:

gggggggggggggg“ szragsbgrouhgbklavg.rwullr.sa
gggggggggggggggLrxzvugpuzvirgpzkl ragrlgVoxr k,
gggggggggggggggWuzg vffv,gwuzif ua,gv.grwak
ggggggggggggggg sirbgkwua,gvlrfsfesugpuzzkj”

ggggg[“VagrlgFkslbgVoxr sa,gbmugabsz tgkvcgunulgpzkfgbmugvhugrbauop
ggggg uzrnuagluqgnrxkszgvl gorpuj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjg4,g57j]

Vl gvagvlkbmuzgavta:

gggggggggggggg“Lklguab,gsbgwsbva,gnrzbsa,gwvbuz,
gggggggggggggggBrfuzugnrbvf;gau gfvoragrlxulbr.sa
gggggggggggggggK.abvzu,gluigaugnuzbuzu,gvigzubzkg vzuj”

ggggg[“Pvbmuz,g‘braglkgnrzbsugbkgpuvzgorpu,g.sbgbkgqrbmabvl gxzuvb
gggggfrapkzbslua,glkzgbszlg.vicgpzkfgbmufj”--Auluiv,gBmu.j,grjg190j]

Kzgvagbmra:

gggggggggg“Zu.sagrlgv nuzaragpvirouguabgiklbufluzugfkzbuf
ggggggggggPkzbrsagroougpvirb,gesrgfrauzguaaugwkbuabj”

ggggg[“Rbgraguvatgrlgv nuzarbtgbkg uawraug uvbm;g.sbgmugvibagfkzu
ggggg.zvnuot,gqmkgivlgornugqzubimu j”--Fvzbrvo,ghrjg56,g15j]

‘Bragikqvz riu,glkbgnrzbsu,gbkgorugaesvbgrlgvgpszzkq,gsl uzgvgbkf.,gbk
unv ugbmug.okqagkpgpkzbslu;gnrzbsuglunuzgabkwaglkzgxkuagksbgkpgmuzgwvbm,
pkzgbmugxzuvbuabgabkzfgbmvbg.okqa:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Argpzvibsagroov.vbszgkz.ra,
ggggggggggggggggggggRfwvnr sfgpuzrulbgzsrlvuj”

ggggg[“Amkso gbmugqkzo ’agvhragizvic,gbmugzsrlagqroog.sbgizsam
ggggggvgpuvzouaagmuv j”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg3,g7j]

Pkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbmugpotrlxgpzkfgkbmuzgrliklnulruliuag.zrlxagsagbk
bmra;glvt,gul uvnkszrlxgbkgunv ug uvbm,gqugkpbulgzslgrlbkgrbagnuztgfksbm:

gggggggggg“Mri,gzkxk,glklgpszkzguab,glugfkzrvzu,gfkzr?”

ggggg[“Buoogfu,gragrbglkbgfv luaa,gbmvbgklugamkso g rugpkzgpuvz
gggggkpg trlx?”--Fvzbrvo,grrjg80,g2j]

orcugbmkaugqmk,gpzkfgpuvzgkpgvgwzuirwriu,gbmzkqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgrlbk
rb;

gggggggggggggg“Fsobkagrlgasffvgwuzrisovgfraprb
gggggggggggggggNulbszrgbrfkzgrwaugfvor:gpkzbraarfsagroouguab,
gggggggggggggggEsrgwzkfwbsagfubsul vgwvbr,gargikfrlsagrlabulb,
gggggggggggggggUbg rppuzzugwkbuabj”

ggggg[“Bmugpuvzgkpgpsbszugrooagkpbulgfvcuagfulgzslgrlbkguhbzufug vlxuz;
gggggmugragbzsotg.zvnugqmkg.ko otg vzuagqrbmabvl gbmugfraimrupagmu
gggggvwwzumul a,gqmulgbmutgiklpzklbgmrfgvl givlg.ug upuzzu j”
gggggg--Osivl,gnrrjg104j]

ggggggggggggggg“Saesugv uk,gfkzbragpkzfr rlu,gnrbvu
gggggggggggggggWuzirwrbgmsfvlkagk rsf,gosiraesugnr ul vu,
gggggggggggggggSbgar.rgiklairaivlbgfkuzulbrgwuibkzugoubmsf
gggggggggggggggK.orbrgpklbufgiszvzsfgmsliguaaugbrfkzufj”

ggggg[“ uvbmgbkgbmvbg uxzuugakgpzrxmbulagakfugful,gbmvbgivsarlxgbmufgbk
gggggmvbug.kbmgorpugvl gorxmb,gbmutgcroogbmufauonua,gfrauzv.otgpkzxubbrlx
gggggbmvbgbmragavfugpuvzgragbmugpkslbvrlgkpgbmurzgivzuaj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg79j]

Wovbk,grlgmragOvqa,gvaarxlagvlgrxlkfrlrksagauwsobszugbkgmrfgqmkgmva
 uwzrnu gmragluvzuabgvl g.uabgpzrul ,glvfuotgmrfauop,gkpgorpugvl gmra
 uabrlu gikszau,g.urlxglurbmuzgikfwuoou gakgbkg kg.tgws.origys xfulb,
.tgvltgav gvl grlunrbv.ougviir ulbgkpgpkzbslu,glkzg.tgvltgrlaswwkzbv.ou
 raxzviu,g.sbgfuzuotgwsamu gklg.tgikqvz riugvl gbmugrf.uirorbtgkpgv
brfkzksagaksojggVl gbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgfvcuagakgorbbougkpgorpu,gra
zr risoksa;gpkzgrbgragkszg.urlx,g‘bragvoogqugmvnujggBmrlxagkpgvglk.ouz
vl gfkzuguounvbu g.urlxgfvt,grl uu ,gzuwzkvimgksza;g.sbgrbgragvxvrlab
lvbszugpkzgsagbkgiklbuflgvl gfvcugorbbougviikslbgkpgkszauonua;g‘bragv
 rauvaugwvzbrisovzgbkgfvl,gvl glkbg raiuzlu grlgvltgkbmuzgizuvbszua,gbk
mvbugvl g uawraugrbauopjggVl grbgragvgnvlrbtgkpgbmugavfugabvfwgbkg uarzu
bkg.ugakfubmrlxguoaugbmvlgqmvbgqugvzu;gbmuguppuibgkpgasimgvg uarzug kua
lkbgvbgvoogbksimgsa,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragiklbzv ribu gvl gmrl uzu grl
rbauopjggMugbmvbg uarzuagkpgvgfvlgbkg.ugfv ugvlgvlxuo,g kuaglkbmrlxgpkz
mrfauop;gmugqkso g.uglunuzgbmug.ubbuzgpkzgrb;gpkz,g.urlxglkgfkzu,gqmk
amvoogzuykriugkzg.ugaular.ougkpgbmrag.uluprbgpkzgmrfj

ggggggggg“ u.ubgulrf,gfrauzugisrgpkzbr,gvuxzuesugpsbszsfguab,
ggggggggggRwaugeskesuguaaugrlgukgbszlgbufwkzu,gisfgfvougwkaarb
ggggggggggViir uzuj”

ggggg[“Pkzgmugbkgqmkfgfrauztgvl gwvrlgvzugbkg.ugrlgbmugpsbszu,gfsab
gggggmrfauopgbmulguhrab,gqmulgbmuaugrooag.upvoogmrfj”
gggggg--R uf,gr.r j,g874j]

Auiszrbt,grl kouliu,grfwvaav.rorbt,gbmugwzrnvbrklgkpgbmugunroagkpgbmra
orpu,gqmrimgqugwzubul gbkgwszimvaugvbgbmugwzriugkpg trlx,gvzugkpglk
fvlluzgkpgv nvlbvxugbkgsa:gbmvbgfvlgunv uagqvzgbkgnuztgorbbougwszwkaugqmk
ivlgmvnuglkgpzsrbrklgkpgwuviu;gvl gvagorbbougbkgbmugwszwkaug kuagmugvnkr 
bzks.ougqmkgivllkbgulyktgzuwkauj

Vfklxabgbmkaugkpgbmugprzabgkpgbmuaugbqkgkwrlrkla,gbmuzugmvag.uulgxzuvb
 u.vbu,gqmvbgkiivarklagvzugaspprirulbgbkgysabrptgbmugfu rbvbrklgkp
auop-fsz uz,gqmrimgbmutgivoog“Vgzuvaklv.ouguhrbj”--[g rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,
OrpugkpgDulkj]--Pkzgbmksxmgbmutgavtgbmvbgfulgfsabgkpbulg rugpkzgbzrnrvo
ivsaua,gauurlxgbmkaugbmvbg ubvrlgsagrlgorpugvzugkpglkgnuztgxzuvbgqurxmb,
tubgbmuzugragbkg.ugakfugorfrbjggBmuzugvzugpvlbvabrigvl gaulauouaagmsfksza
bmvbgmvnugwzkfwbu glkbgklotgrl rnr svogful,g.sbgqmkouglvbrklagbkg uabzkt
bmufauonua,gkpgqmrimgRgmvnuguoauqmuzugxrnulgakfuguhvfwoua;gvl gqugpszbmuz
zuv gkpgbmugFrouarvlgnrzxrla,gbmvbg.tgvgpzvlbrigikfwvibgbmutgmvlxu 
bmufauonuagklugvpbuzgvlkbmuzgbroogbmugfvxrabzvbugbkkcgkz uzgrlgrb,
ulvibrlxgbmvbgbmug.k ruagkpgasimgvagamkso g.ugpksl gakgmvlxu gamkso g.u
 zvqlg.tgbmugavfugmvobuzgabvzcglvcu gbmzksxmgbmugirbtjggQmulgBmuztcrkl
bzru gbkgwuzasv ugIoukfuluagbkg uawvbimgmrfauop,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugroo
wkabszugkpgmragvppvrza,gvl ,gmvnrlxgfraau gvg uvbmgkpgfkzugmklkszgrlgbmu
.vbbougmugmv gokab,gbkgviiuwbgkpgbmragbmugauikl grlgmklkszgbkgrb,gvl glkb
bkgxrnugbmugiklesuzkzagouraszugbkgfvcugmrfgsl uzxkgurbmuzgvlgrxlkfrlrksa
 uvbmgkzgvlgrlpvfksagorpu;gIoukfulua,gqrbmgvgikszvxugbzsotgAbkrigvl 
Oviu vufklrvl,gzuyuibu gmragikslauogvagslfvlotgvl gfuvl;g“bmvb,”gavr gmu,
“ragvgzufu tgbmvbgivlglunuzg.ugqvlbrlx,g.sbgqmrimgvgfvlgraglunuzgbkgfvcu
saugkp,gqmroabgbmuzugragvlgrlimgkpgmkwugzufvrlrlx”:gbuoorlxgmrf,g“bmvb
rbgqvagakfubrfuagiklabvlitgvl gnvokszgbkgornu;gbmvbgmugqkso gbmvbgunul
mrag uvbmgamkso g.ugkpgsaugbkgmragikslbzt,gvl gqkso gfvcugkpgrbgvlgvibgkp
mklkszgvl gnrzbsuj”ggBmuztcrkl,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gbmksxmbgmrfauopgrlgbmu
zrxmb,gvl g r gmragkqlg.sarluaa;gvl gIoukfuluagvpbuzqvz ag r gbmugavfu,
.sbglkbgbroogmugmv gprzabgbzru gbmugsbfkabgfvounkouliugkpgpkzbslujggVoo
bmugrliklnulruliuagrlgbmugqkzo gvzuglkbgiklar uzv.ougulksxmgbmvbgvgfvl
amkso g rugbkgunv ugbmuf;gvl ,g.uar ua,gbmuzug.urlxgakgfvlt,gakgas  ul
vl gsluhwuibu gimvlxuagrlgmsfvlgbmrlxa,grbgragmvz gzrxmbotgbkgys xugqmul
qugvzugvbgbmugul gkpgkszgmkwu:

gggggggggggggg“Awuzvbgubgrlgavunvgnribsagxov rvbkzgvzulv,
gggggggggggggggArbgoriubgrlpuabkgwkooriugbsz.vgfrlvhj”

ggggg[“Bmugxov rvbkzgiklesuzu grlgbmugorabagmkwuagkl,gbmksxmgbmu
gggggfulvirlxgawuibvbkza,gbszlrlxgbmurzgbmsf.,gkz uzgmrfgbkg ruj”
gggggg--Wulbv rsa,g ugAwu,gvwjgNrzxrorrgIvbv uibvj]

Voogbmrlxa,gavtagvlgko gv vxu,gvzugbkg.ugmkwu gpkzg.tgvgfvlgqmroabgmu
ornua;gvt,g.sb,gzuworuagAuluiv,gqmtgamkso gbmragzvbmuzg.ugvoqvtagzsllrlx
rlgvgfvl’agmuv gbmvbgpkzbslugivlg kgvoogbmrlxagpkzgbmugornrlxgfvl,gbmvl
bmra,gbmvbgpkzbslugmvaglkgwkquzgknuzgmrfgbmvbgclkqagmkqgbkg ru?
Ykauwmsa,gqmulgulxvxu grlgakgluvzgvl gvwwvzulbg vlxuz,gvgqmkougwukwou
.urlxgnrkoulbotg.ulbgvxvrlabgmrf,gbmvbgbmuzugqvaglkgnrar.ougfuvlagkp
uaivwu,glunuzbmuouaa,g.urlx,gvagmugmrfauopgavta,grlgbmraguhbzufrbt
ikslauoou g.tgklugkpgmragpzrul agbkg uawvbimgmrfauop,grbgqvagquoogpkzgmrf
bmvbgmugtubgfvrlbvrlu gmrfauopgrlgmkwu,gpkzgpkzbslug rnuzbu gbmugviir ulb
.utkl gvoogmsfvlguhwuibvbrkl,gakgbmvbgmugavqgmrfauopg uornuzu gqrbmksb
vltgfvlluzgkpgrliklnulruliujggQmuzuvag.zsbsagvl gIvaarsa,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbmzuqgvqvtgbmugzufvrlagkpgbmugZkfvlgor.uzbt,gkpgqmrimgbmutgquzu
bmugakougwzkbuibkza,g.tgbmugwzuirwrbvbrklgvl gbufuzrbtgqmuzuqrbmgbmut
croou gbmufauonuag.upkzugbmug sugbrfugvl gvgysabgkiivarkljggFklarusz
 ’Vlxsrul,gvbgbmug.vbbougkpgAuzrakooua,gbqriugvbbufwbu gbkgzslgmrfauop
bmzksxm,g uawvrzrlxgkpgbmugpkzbslugkpgbmug vt,gqmrimgqulbgrl uu gnuzt
slbkqvz otgklgbmvbgar ugkpgbmugpruo gqmuzugmugqvagulxvxu ,gvl g.tgbmvb
wzuirwrbvbrklgqvagnuztgluvzg uwzrnrlxgmrfauopgkpgbmugulyktfulbgkpgak
.zvnugvgnribkztjggRgmvnugauulgvgmsl zu gmvzuaguaivwugksbgkpgbmugnuzt
buubmgkpgbmugxzutmksl a:

ggggggggggggggg“Voresragivzlrprirgaskgaswuzabuagpsrbj”

ggggg[“Akfugmvnugasznrnu gbmurzguhuisbrkluzaj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g13j]

gggggggggggggg“Fsobvg rua,gnvzrsaesugov.kzgfsbv.roraglunr
gggggggggggggggZubbsorbgrlgfuorsa;gfsobkagvobuzlvgzunraula
gggggggggggggggOsarb,gubgrlgakor kgzszasagpkzbslvgokivnrbj”

ggggg[“Oulxbmgkpg vta,gvl gbmugnvzrksagov.kszgkpgimvlxupsogbrfu,gmvnu
ggggg.zksxmbgbmrlxagbkgvg.ubbuzgabvbu;gpkzbslugbszlrlx,gamuqagvgzunuzau
gggggpviu,gvl gvxvrlgzuabkzuagfulgbkgwzkawuzrbtj”--VUlur ,ghrjg425j]

Wrltgavtagbmuzugvzug.sbgbmzuugakzbagkpg rauvaua,gbkguaivwugqmrimgvgfvl
mvagxkk gbrbougbkg uabzktgmrfauop;gbmugqkzabgkpgqmrimgragbmugabklugrlgbmu
.ov  uz,gqmulgbmugszrlugragaswwzuaau j

ggggg[“Rlgbmugesvzbkgu rbrklgkpgbmuauguaavta,grlg1588,gWorltgragavr gbk
gggggfulbrklgbqkgfkzu,gnrdj,gvgwvrlgrlgbmugabkfvimgvl gvgmuv vimu,gqmrim,
gggggmugavtag(or.jghhnjgijg9j),gquzugbmugklotgbmzuug rabufwuzagvofkab
gggggpkzgqmrimgfulgcroou gbmufauonuaj”]

Auluivgavtagbmkaugklotgqmrimgpkzgvgoklxgbrfugvzug raikfwkarlxgbmu
pslibrklagkpgbmugaksojggVl gakfugbmuzugmvnug.uulgqmk,gbkgvnkr gvgqkzau
 uvbm,gmvnugimkaulgklugbkgbmurzgkqlgorcrlxjgg ufkizrbsa,gxuluzvogkpgbmu
VUbkorvla,g.urlxg.zksxmbgwzrakluzgbkgZkfu,gpksl gfuvlagbkgfvcugmraguaivwu
.tglrxmb:g.sbgiokaugwszasu g.tgmragcuuwuza,gzvbmuzgbmvlgasppuzgmrfauopgbk
.ugzubvcul,gmugpuoogswklgmragkqlgaqkz gvl g ru jggVlbrlksagvl gBmuk kbsa,
bmurzgirbtgkpgUwrzsag.urlxgzu siu g.tgbmugZkfvlagbkgbmugovabguhbzufrbt,
xvnugbmugwukwougikslauogslrnuzavootgbkgcroogbmufauonua;g.sb,gbmuau
wzupuzzrlxgbkgxrnugbmufauonuagswgbkgbmuguluft,gbmugbqkgimrupagqulbgbk
auucgbmug uvbmgbmutg uarzu ,gzsamrlxgpszrksaotgswklgbmuguluft,gqrbm
rlbulbrklgbkgabzrcugmkfug.sbglkbgbkgqvz gvg.okqjggBmugRaovl gkpgXkddk
.urlxgbvculgakfugtuvzagvxkg.tgbmugBszca,gvgArirorvl,gqmkgmv gbqk
.uvsbrpsog vsxmbuzagfvzzrvxuv.ou,gcroou gbmufg.kbmgqrbmgmragkqlgmvl ,gvl 
bmurzgfkbmuz,gzsllrlxgrlgbkgavnugbmuf,gbkg.kkb,gqmrimgmvnrlxg klu,
avootrlxgksbgkpgbmugmksaugqrbmgvgizkaa-.kqgvl gmvzesu.sa,gqrbmgbqkgamkba
mugcroou gbqkgkpgbmugBszcagluvzuabgbkgmrag kkz,gvl g zvqrlxgmragaqkz ,
imvzxu gpszrksaotgrlgvfklxabgbmugzuab,gqmuzugmugqvagas  ulotguliokau gvl 
isbgbkgwruiua,g.tgbmvbgfuvlag uornuzrlxgmragpvfrotgvl gmrfauopgpzkf
aovnuztgvl g ramklkszjggBmugYuqramgqkful,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgirzisfirau gbmurz
imro zul,gbmzuqgbmufgvl gbmufauonuag kqlgvgwzuirwriugbkgvnkr gbmugizsuobt
kpgVlbrxklsajggRgmvnug.uulgbko gkpgvgwuzaklgkpgikl rbrklgrlgklugkpgksz
wzrakla,gbmvbgmragpzrul a,g.urlxgrlpkzfu gbmvbgmugqkso giuzbvrlotg.u
ikl uflu ,gbkgvnkr gbmugrxlkfrltgkpgasimgvg uvbmgas.kzlu gvgwzruabgbk
buoogmrfgbmvbgbmugklotgfuvlagkpgmrag uornuzvliugqvagbkgzuikfful gmrfauop
bkgasimgvgavrlb,gsl uzgasimgvl gasimgnkqa,gvl gbkgpvabgurxmbg vta
bkxubmuzgqrbmksbgbvcrlxgvltgfvlluzgkpglkszramfulb,gqmvbgquvcluaagkz
pvrlbluaagakunuzgmugfrxmbgprl grlgmrfauopg szrlxgbmugbrfu;gmugpkookqu 
bmurzgv nriu,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlag uabzktu gmrfauopg.upkzugmugqvagvqvzu,
lkbg zuvfrlxgkpg uvbmgkzgvltg vlxuzgrlgbmuguhwuzrfulbjggAizr.klrv
v nrarlxgmuzgluwmuqgOr.kgbkgcroogmrfauopgzvbmuzgbmvlgvqvrbgbmugabzkcugkp
ysabriu,gbko gmrfgbmvbgrbgqvagbkg kgkbmuzgwukwou’ag.sarluaagbkgwzuauznu
mragorpugbkgwsbgrbgvpbuzgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgbmkaugqmkgqrbmrlgbmzuugkzgpksz
 vtagqkso gpubimgmrfgbkguhuisbrkl,gvl gbmvbgrbgqvagbkgauznugmragulufrua
bkgcuuwgmrag.okk gbkgxzvbrptgbmurzgfvoriuj

Qugzuv grlgbmug.r.ougbmvbgLrivlkz,gbmugwuzauisbkzgkpgbmugovqgkpgXk ,
mvnrlxgaulbgmragako ruzagbkgaurdugswklgbmugxkk gko gfvlgZvdra,gaszlvfu 
rlgmklkszgkpgmragnrzbsugbmugpvbmuzgkpgbmugYuqa:gbmugxkk gfvl,gauurlxglk
kbmuzgzufu t,gmragxvbuag.szlu g kql,gvl gbmugulufruagzuv tgbkgaurdugmrf,
imkkarlxgzvbmuzgbkg ruglk.otgbmvlgbkgpvoogrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgmragqricu 
v nuzavzruagvl gasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugizsuootg.sbimuzu g.tgbmuf,giklbzvzt
bkgbmugmklkszgkpgmragzvlcgvl gesvorbt,gabv..u gmrfauopgqrbmgmragkql
aqkz ,g.sbgbmug.okq,gpkzgmvabu,glkbgmvnrlxg.uulgxrnulgmkfu,gmugzvlgvl 
bmzuqgmrfauopgpzkfgbmugbkwgkpgvgqvoogmuv oklxgvfklxgbmuf,gqmkgauwvzvbrlx
bmufauonuagvl gfvcrlxgzkkf,gmugwrbimu g rzuibotgswklgmragmuv ;
lkbqrbmabvl rlxgqmrim,gpuuorlxgtubgrlgmrfauopgakfugzufvrlagkpgorpu,gmu
zuluqu gmragikszvxu,gvl gabvzbrlxgswgswklgmragpuubgvoog.okk tgvl gqksl u 
vagmugqva,gvl gfvcrlxgmragqvtgbmzksxmgbmugizkq gbkgvgwzuirwrbksagzkic,
bmuzu,gbmzksxmgklugkpgmragqksl a,g zuqgksbgmrag.kquoa,gqmrim,gbuvzrlxgvl 
wsoorlxgbkgwruiuagqrbmg.kbmgmragmvl a,gmugbmzuqgvfklxabgmragwszasuza,gvoo
bmugqmrougvbbuabrlxgvl grlnkcrlxgbmug rnrlugnulxuvliugswklgbmufgpkzgbmurz
izsuobtgvl grlysabriuj

Kpgnrkouliuagkppuzu gbkgbmugiklairuliu,gbmvbgvxvrlabgbmugimvabrbtgkp
qkfvlgra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gfkabgbkg.ugvnkr u ,gpkzvafsimgvagbmuzugragv
iuzbvrlgwouvaszuglvbszvootgfrhu gqrbmgrb,gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgbmug raaulb
bmuzurlgivllkbg.ugaspprirulbotgwuzpuibgvl gulbrzu,gakgbmvbgbmugnrkouliu
auufagbkg.ugfrhu gqrbmgvgorbbougiklaulbgkpgbmugpkziu gwvzbtjggBmu
uiiouarvabrivogmrabkztgmvagaunuzvoguhvfwouagkpg unksbgwuzaklagqmkgmvnu
uf.zviu g uvbmgbkgauiszugbmufgpzkfgbmugksbzvxuagwzuwvzu g.tgbtzvlba
vxvrlabgbmurzgzuorxrklgvl gmklkszjggWuovxrvgvl gAkwmzklrv,g.kbm
ivlklrau ,gbmugprzabgkpgbmuaugwzuirwrbvbu gmuzauopgqrbmgmuzgfkbmuzgvl 
arabuzagrlbkgbmugzrnuzgbkgvnkr g.urlxgpkziu g.tgakfugako ruza,gvl gbmu
ovabgvoakgcroou gmuzauopgbkgvnkr g.urlxgzvnramu g.tgbmugUfwuzkz
Fvhulbrsaj

Rbgfvt,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugvlgmklkszgbkgsagrlgpsbszugvxua,gbmvbgvgouvzlu 
vsbmkzgkpgbmragwzuaulbgbrfu,gvl gvgWvzrarvl,gbvcuagvgxzuvbg uvogkpgwvrla
bkgwuzasv ugbmugov ruagkpgkszgvxugzvbmuzgbkgbvcugvltgkbmuzgikszaugbmvlgbk
ulbuzgrlbkgbmugmkzzr gfu rbvbrklgkpgasimgvg uawvrzjggRgvfgakzztgmugmv 
lunuzgmuvz ,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgmvnugrlauzbu grbgvfklxabgmragkbmuzgabkzrua,
bmugavtrlxgkpgvgqkfvl,gqmrimgqvagbko gfugvbgBksoksau,gqmkgmv gwvaau 
bmzksxmgbmugmvl orlxgkpgakfugako ruza:g“Xk g.ugwzvrau ,”gavr gamu,g“bmvb
kliugvbgouvabgrlgftgorpugRgmvnugmv gftgproogqrbmksbgarlj”ggRlgbzsbm,
bmuaugizsuobruagvzugnuztgslqkzbmtgbmugPzulimgxkk glvbszu,gvl gvoak,gXk 
.ugbmvlcu ,gkszgvrzgragnuztgquoogwszxu gkpgbmufgarliugbmragxkk gv nriu:
‘bragulksxmgbmvbgbmutgavtg“lk”grlg krlxgrb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugzsougkpgbmu
xkk gFvzkbj

gggggggggggggg“Slg ksohglullt,gvnuigslg ksohgakszrzu
gggggggggggggggUabgbvlbgmklluabuj”--Fvzkbj

Mrabkztgragunuztqmuzugpsoogkpgbmkaugqmkg.tgvgbmksavl gqvtagmvnuguhimvlxu 
vgwvrlpsogvl grzcakfugorpugpkzg uvbmjggOsirsagVzslbrsagcroou gmrfauop,gbk
pot,gmugavr ,g.kbmgbmugpsbszugvl gbmugwvabjggXzvlrsagAronvlsagvl gAbvbrsa
Wzkhrfsa,gvpbuzgmvnrlxg.uulgwvz klu g.tgLuzk,gcroou gbmufauonua;gurbmuz
 ra vrlrlxgbkgornug.tgbmugpvnkszgkpgakgqricu gvgfvl,gkzgbmvbgbmutgfrxmb
lkbg.ugbzks.ou ,gvbgakfugkbmuzgbrfu,gbkgk.bvrlgvgauikl gwvz kl,
iklar uzrlxgbmugwzkiornrbtgkpgmraglvbszugbkgasawuibgvl gizu rb
viisavbrklagvxvrlabgqkzbmtgfuljggAwvzxvwraua,gaklgkpgEsuulgBkftzra,g.urlx
vgwzrakluzgkpgqvzgbkgItzsa,gfv ugsaugkpgbmugprzabgpvnkszgItzsagamuqu 
mrf,grlgikffvl rlxgmrfgbkg.ugsl.ksl ,gbkgcroogmrfauop,gmvnrlxgwzubul u 
bkglkgkbmuzg.uluprbgkpgor.uzbt,g.sbgklotgbkg.ugzunulxu gkpgmrfauopgpkz
bmug raxzviugkpg.urlxgbvculjgg.kxua,gxknuzlkzgrlgUrklgpkzgCrlxgHuzhua,
.urlxg.uaruxu g.tgbmugVbmulrvlgvzftgsl uzgbmugikl sibgkpgIrfkl,gzupsau 
bmugikl rbrklagkppuzu ,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgavpugzubszlgrlbkgVarvgqrbmgvoogmra
quvobm,grfwvbrulbgbkgasznrnugbmugokaagkpgvgwoviugmragfvabuzgmv gxrnulgmrf
bkgcuuw;gqmuzupkzu,gmvnrlxg upul u gbmugirbtgbkgbmugovabguhbzufrbt,
lkbmrlxg.urlxgoupbgbkguvb,gmugprzabgbmzuqgvoogbmugxko gvl gqmvbunuzguoau
bmuguluftgikso gfvcug.kkbtgkpgrlbkgbmugzrnuzgAbztfkl,gvl gbmulgivsarlxgv
xzuvbgwrougbkg.ugaubgklgprzu,gvl gbmugbmzkvbagkpgvoogbmugqkful,gimro zul,
iklis.rlua,gvl gauznvlbagbkg.ugisb,gmugbmzuqgbmurzg.k ruagrlbkgbmugprzu,
vl gvbgovabgouvwu grlbkgrbgmrfauopj

Lrlvimubsul,gvlgRl rvlgokz ,gakgakklgvagmugmuvz gbmugprzabgqmrawuzgkpgbmu
WkzbsxsuaugNriuzkt’ag ubuzfrlvbrklgbkg rawkaauaagmrf,gqrbmksbgvlt
vwwvzulbgivsau,gkpgmragikffvl grlgFvoviiv,gbkgbzvlapuzgrbgbkgbmugCrlxgkp
Ivfwvz,gmugbkkcgbmragzuakosbrklgqrbmgmrfauop:gmugivsau gvgaivppko ,gfkzu
oklxgbmvlg.zkv ,gbkg.uguzuibu ,gaswwkzbu g.tgikosflagzktvootgv kzlu gqrbm
bvwuabztgvl gabzuqu gqrbmgpokquzagvl gv.sl vliugkpgwuzpsfua;gvoogqmrim
.urlxgwzuwvzu ,grlgvgzk.ugkpgiokbmgkpgxko ,gaubgpsoogkpgyuquoagkpgxzuvb
nvosu,gmugivfugksbgrlbkgbmugabzuub,gvl gfkslbu gbmugabuwagbkgbmu
aivppko ,gvbgklugikzluzgkpgqmrimgmugmv gvgwrougorxmbu gkpgvzkfvbrigqkk j
Unuzt.k tgzvlgbkgauugbkgqmvbgul gbmuaugslsasvogwzuwvzvbrklagquzugfv u;
qmulgLrlvimubsul,gqrbmgvgfvlotg.sbg rawouvau gikslbulvliu,gaubgpkzbmgmkq
fsimgmugmv gk.orxu gbmugWkzbsxsuauglvbrkl,gvl gqrbmgmkqgslawkbbu 
pr uorbtgmugmv givzzru gmrfauopgrlgmragimvzxu;gbmvbgmvnrlxgakgkpbul,
aqkz grlgmvl ,gfvlrpuabu grlgbmug.umvopgkpgkbmuza,gbmvbgmklkszgqvagfsim
fkzug uvzgbkgmrfgbmvlgorpu,gmugqvaglkbgbkgv.vl klgbmugikliuzlgkpgrbgpkz
mrfauop:gbmvbgpkzbslug ultrlxgmrfgvoogfuvlagkpgkwwkarlxgbmugvppzklb
 uarxlu gbkg.ugwsbgswklgmrf,gmragikszvxugvbgouvabgulykrlu gmrfgbkgpzuu
mrfauopgpzkfgbmugaulaugkpgrb,gvl glkbgbkgauznugpkzgvgpv.ougbkgbmugwukwou,
lkzgpkzgvgbzrsfwmgbkgfulgouaag uauznrlxgbmvlgmrfauop;gqmrimgmvnrlxgavr 
mugouvwu grlbkgbmugprzuj

Auhbrorv,gqrpugkpgAivszsa,gvl gWvhvuv,gqrpugkpgOv.uk,gbkgulikszvxugbmurz
msa.vl agbkgvnkr gbmug vlxuzagbmvbgwzuaau gswklgbmuf,gqmuzurlgbmutgmv glk
kbmuzgamvzugbmvlgiklysxvogvppuibrkl,gnkoslbvzrotgavizrpriu gbmurzgkql
ornuagbkgauznugbmufgrlgbmraguhbzufugluiuaarbtgpkzgikfwvltgvl guhvfwouj
Qmvbgbmutg r gpkzgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gIkiiursagLuznvg r gpkzgmragikslbzt,
qrbmgouaagsbrorbtgbmksxmgqrbmguesvogvppuibrkl:gbmragxzuvbgovqtuz,
pokszramrlxgrlgmuvobm,gzrimua,gzuwsbvbrkl,gvl gpvnkszgqrbmgbmugUfwuzkz,
mv glkgkbmuzgivsaugbkgcroogmrfauopg.sbgbmugakougikfwvaarklgkpgbmu
frauzv.ougabvbugkpgbmugZkfvlgZuws.orijggLkbmrlxgivlg.ugv  u gbkgbmu
.uvsbtgkpgbmug uvbmgkpgbmugqrpugkpgPsonrsa,gvgpvfrorvzgpvnkszrbugkp
Vsxsabsa:gVsxsabsagmvnrlxg raiknuzu gbmvbgmugmv gnulbu gvlgrfwkzbvlb
auizubgmugmv gulbzsabu gmrfgqrbmvo,gklugfkzlrlxgbmvbgmugivfugbkgfvcugmra
ikszb,gzuiurnu gmrfgnuztgiko otgvl gokkcu gpzkqlrlxotgswklgmrfjggMu
zubszlu gmkfu,gpsoogkp,g uawvrz,gqmuzugmugakzzkqpsootgbko gmragqrpugbmvb,
mvnrlxgpvooulgrlbkgbmragfrapkzbslu,gmugqvagzuakonu gbkgcroogmrfauop:gbk
qmrimgamugzksl otgzuworu ,g“‘brag.sbgzuvaklgtksgamkso ,gauurlxgbmvb
mvnrlxgakgkpbulguhwuzruliu gbmugrliklbrluliugkpgftgbklxsu,gtksgikso glkb
bvcugqvzlrlx:g.sbgoubgfugcroogftauopgprzab,”gvl gqrbmksbgvltgfkzugavtrlx
zvlgmuzauopgbmzksxmgbmug.k tgqrbmgvgaqkz jggNr.rsagNrzzrsa,g uawvrzrlxgkp
bmugavpubtgkpgmragirbtg.uaruxu g.tgbmugZkfvlagvl gkpgbmurzgfuzit,grlgbmu
ovabg uor.uzvbrklgkpgmragirbt’agaulvbu,gvpbuzgfvltgvzxsfulbagikl sirlxgbk
bmvbgul ,giklios u gbmvbgbmugfkabglk.ougfuvlagbkguaivwugpkzbslugqvag.t
bmurzgkqlgmvl a:gbuoorlxgbmufgbmvbgbmuguluftgqkso gmvnugbmufgrlgmklksz,
vl gMvllr.vogqkso g.ugaular.ougmkqgfvltgpvrbmpsogpzrul agmugmv 
v.vl klu ;grlnrbrlxgbmkaugqmkgvwwzknu gkpgmragv nriugbkgikfugbkgvgxkk 
aswwuzgmugmv gzuv tgvbgmkfu,gqmuzugvpbuzgbmutgmv guvbulgquoo,gbmutgqkso 
 zrlcgbkxubmuzgkpgqmvbgmugmv gwzuwvzu ;gvg.unuzvxu,gavr gmu,gbmvbgqroo
 uornuzgkszg.k ruagpzkfgbkzfulba,gkszgaksoagpzkfgrlasob,gvl gkszgutuagvl 
uvzagpzkfgbmugaulaugkpgakgfvltgmvbupsogfraimrupa,gvagbmugiklesuzu gasppuz
pzkfgizsuogvl grfwoviv.ougiklesuzkzajggRgmvnu,gavr gmu,gbvculgkz uzgpkz
prbgwuzaklagbkgbmzkqgkszg.k ruagrlbkgvgpsluzvogwroug.upkzugftg kkzgak
akklgvagqugvzug uv jggFvltgulksxmgvwwzknu gbmragmrxmgzuakosbrkl,g.sbgpuq
rfrbvbu grb;gaunul-vl -bqulbtgaulvbkzagpkookqu gmrf,gqmk,gvpbuzgmvnrlx
bzru gbkg zkqlgbmugbmksxmbgkpgbmragpvbvog ubuzfrlvbrklgrlgqrlu,gul u gbmu
puvabgqrbmgbmugfkzbvogfuaa;gvl guf.zvirlxgklugvlkbmuz,gvpbuzgbmutgmv 
ykrlbotg uwokzu gbmugfrapkzbslugkpgbmurzgikslbzt,gakfugzubrzu gmkfugbk
bmurzgkqlgmksaua,gkbmuzagabvtu gbkg.ug.szlu gqrbmgNr.rsagrlgmragpsluzvo
wtzu;gvl gquzugvoogkpgbmufgakgoklxgrlg trlx,gbmugnvwkszgkpgbmugqrlu
mvnrlxgwzuwkaauaau gbmugnurla,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlag upuzzu gbmuguppuibgkp
wkrakl,gbmvbgakfugkpgbmufgquzugqrbmrlgvlgmkszgkpgauurlxgbmuguluftgrlar u
bmugqvooagkpgIvwsv,gqmrimgqvagbvculgbmugluhbgfkzlrlx,gvl gkpgsl uzxkrlx
bmugfrauzruagbmutgmv gvbgakg uvzgvgzvbugul uvnkszu gbkgvnkr jggYs.uoorsa
Bvszuv,gvlkbmuzgirbrdulgkpgbmugavfugikslbzt,gbmugIklasogPsonrsagzubszlrlx
pzkfgbmugamvfupsog.sbimuztgmugmv gfv ugkpgbqkgmsl zu gvl gbqulbt-prnu
aulvbkza,givoou gmrfg.vicgpruziuotg.tglvfu,gvl gmvnrlxgfv ugmrfgabkw:
“Xrnugbmugqkz ,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgakfu.k tgfvtg rawvbimgfugvpbuzgbmu
fvaavizugkpgakgfvltgkbmuza,gbmvbgbmksgfvtuabg.kvabgbkgmvnugcroou gvgfsim
fkzugnvorvlbgfvlgbmvlgbmtauopj”ggPsonrsa,g ra vrlrlxgmrfgvagvgfvlgksbgkp
mragqrba,gvl gvoakgmvnrlxgzuiurnu goubbuzagpzkfgZkfugiulaszrlxgbmu
rlmsfvlrbtgkpgmraguhuisbrklgqmrimgbru gmragmvl a,gYs.uoorsagwzkiuu u :
“Arliugftgikslbztgmvag.uulgbvcul,gftgpzrul ag uv ,gvl gmvnrlxgqrbmgftgkql
mvl agaovrlgftgqrpugvl gimro zulgbkgzuaisugbmufgpzkfgbmug uakovbrklgkp
bmragzsrl,gRgvfg ulru gbkg rugbmug uvbmgkpgftgpuookq-irbrdula,goubgfu
.kzzkqgpzkfgnrzbsugnulxuvliugklgbmragmvbu gorpu,”gvl gbmuzuqrbmvog zvqrlx
vgamkzbgaqkz gmugivzzru gikliuvou gv.ksbgmrf,gmugzvlgrbgbmzksxmgmragkql
.kakf,gpvoorlxg kqlg.vicqvz ,gvl guhwrzrlxgvbgbmugiklaso’agpuubj

Vouhvl uz,govtrlxgaruxugbkgvgirbtgkpgbmugRl rua,gbmkaugqrbmrl,gprl rlx
bmufauonuagnuztgmvz otgaub,gwsbgklgvgnrxkzksagzuakosbrklgbkg uwzrnugmrf
kpgbmugwouvaszugkpgmragnribkzt,gvl gviikz rlxotg.szlu gbmufauonuagrl
xuluzvo,gbkxubmuzgqrbmgbmurzgirbt,grlg uawrbugkpgmragmsfvlrbt:gvgluqgcrl 
kpgqvz,gqmuzugbmugulufruagaksxmbgbkgavnugbmuf,gvl gbmutgbkg uabzkt
bmufauonua,g krlxgbkgfvcugbmufauonuagaszugkpg uvbm,gvoogbmvbgfulg kgbk
auiszugorpuj

Vabvwv,gvgirbtgkpgAwvrl,gprl rlxgrbauopgquvcgrlgqvooagvl g upuliugbk
qrbmabvl gbmugZkfvla,gbmugrlmv.rbvlbagfv ugvgmuvwgkpgvoogbmurzgzrimuagvl 
pszlrbszugrlgbmugws.origwoviu;gvl ,gmvnrlxgzvlxu gswklgbmragmuvwgvoogbmu
qkfulgvl gimro zul,gvl gwrou gbmufgzksl gqrbmgqkk gvl gkbmuzgikf.sabr.ou
fvbbuzgbkgbvcugas  ulgprzu,gvl goupbgprpbtgkpgbmurzgtkslxgfulgpkzgbmu
uhuisbrklgkpgbmvbgqmuzuklgbmutgmv gzuakonu ,gbmutgfv ugvg uawuzvbugavoot,
qmuzugpkzgqvlbgkpgwkquzgbkgknuzikfu,gbmutgivsau gbmufauonuagbkg.ugunuzt
fvlgaovrljggBmugprpbt,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfvaavizu gunuztgornrlxgakso
bmzksxmksbgbmugqmkougirbt,gvl gwsbgprzugbkgbmragwrou,gbmzuqgbmufauonua
ovabotgrlbkgrb,gprlramrlxgbmurzgxuluzksagor.uzbt,gzvbmuzgvpbuzgvl
rlaular.ou,gbmvlgvpbuzgvgakzzkqpsogvl g raxzviupsogfvlluz,gxrnrlxgbmu
uluftgbkgsl uzabvl ,gbmvbgrpgpkzbslugmv g.uulgakgwouvau ,gbmutgmv gva
quoogbmugikszvxugbkgalvbimgpzkfgbmufgnribkztgvagbmutgmv gbkgpzsabzvbugvl 
zul uzgrbg zuv pso,gvl gunulgfkzbvogbkgbmkaugqmk,gvooszu g.tgbmu
awoul kszgkpgbmugxko gfuobrlxgrlgbmragpovfu,gmvnrlxgvwwzkvimu grb,
vgxzuvbglsf.uzgquzugbmuzugasppkivbu gvl g.szlu ,g.urlxgcuwbgpzkfgzubrzrlx
.tgbmugizkq gbmvbgpkookqu gvpbuzj

BmugV.t uvla,g.urlxgwzuaau g.tgCrlxgWmrorw,gwsbgklgbmugavfugzuakosbrkl;
.sb,glkbgmvnrlxgbrfu,gbmutgikso glkbgwsbgrbg‘rlguppuibjggBmugcrlx,gqmk
qvagabzsicgqrbmgmkzzkzgvbgbmugzvamgwzuirwrbvbrklgkpgbmraguhuisbrklg(bmu
bzuvaszugvl gfknv.ouagbmvbgbmutgmv gikl uflu gbkgbmugpovfuag.urlxgprzab
aurdu ),g zvqrlxgkppgmragako ruza,gxzvlbu gbmufgbmzuug vta’gbrfugbkgcroo
bmufauonuagrl,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbg kgrbgqrbmgfkzugkz uzgvl gvbgxzuvbuzguvau:
qmrimgbrfugbmutgproou gqrbmg.okk gvl gaovsxmbuzg.utkl gbmugsbfkabguhiuaa
kpgvoogmkabrougizsuobt,gakgbmvbglkbgakgfsimgvagvltgklugaksogqvagoupb
vornugbmvbgmv gwkquzgbkg uabzktgrbauopjggBmuzugvzugrlprlrbuguhvfwouagkp
orcugwkwsovzgzuakosbrklagqmrimgauufgbmugfkzugpruziugvl gizsuogrl
wzkwkzbrklgvagbmuguppuibgragfkzugslrnuzavo,gvl gtubgvzugzuvootgouaagak
bmvlgqmulgarlxotguhuisbu ;gqmvbgvzxsfulbagvl gwuzasvarklgivllkbg kgqrbm
rl rnr svogful,gbmutgivlg kgqrbmgvoo,gbmugvz kszgkpgakirubtgzvnramrlx
wvzbrisovzgys xfulbaj

Bmugikl uflu gqmkgqkso gornugbkg.uguhuisbu grlgbmugzurxlgkpgBr.uzrsa,
pkzpurbu gbmurzgxkk agvl gquzug ulru gbmugzrbuagkpgauwsobszu;gbmkaugqmk,
.tgcroorlxgbmufauonua,gvlbrirwvbu grb,gquzugrlbuzzu ,gvl gmv gor.uzbtgbk
 rawkaugkpgbmurzguabvbuag.tgqrooj

.sbgfulgakfubrfuagiknubg uvbmgksbgkpgmkwugkpgvgxzuvbuzgxkk jgg“Rg uarzu,”
gavtagAbjgWvso,g“bkg.ugqrbmgImzrab,”gvl g“qmkgamvoogzr gfugkpgbmuau
.vl a?”ggIoukf.zkbsagkpgVf.zvirv,gmvnrlxgzuv gWovbk’agWmuu k,gulbuzu 
rlbkgakgxzuvbgvg uarzugkpgbmugorpugbkgikfugbmvb,gqrbmksbgvltgkbmuz
kiivarkl,gmugbmzuqgmrfauopgrlbkgbmugauvjgg.tgqmrimgrbgvwwuvzagmkq
rfwzkwuzotgqugivoogbmragnkoslbvztg raakosbrkl,g uawvrz,gbkgqmrimgbmu
uvxuzluaagkpgmkwugkpbulgrliorluagsa,gvl ,gkpbul,gvgivofgvl gbufwuzvbu
 uarzugwzkiuu rlxgpzkfgvgfvbszugvl g uor.uzvbugys xfulbjggYviesuag s
Imvabuo,g.ramkwgkpgAkraakla,grlgAbjgOksra’agpkzurxlguhwu rbrkl,gauurlx
bmugcrlxgvl gqmkougvzftgswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgzubszlrlxgrlbkgPzvliu,gouvnrlx
bmugvppvrzagkpgzuorxrklgrfwuzpuib,gbkkcgvgzuakosbrklgzvbmuzgbkgxkgrlbk
Wvzv rau;gqmuzupkzu,gmvnrlxgbvculgakouflgouvnugkpgmragpzrul a,gmugimvzxu 
voklu,grlgbmugarxmbgkpgunuztgklu,grlbkgbmuguluft’agvzft,gqmuzugmugqva
wzuaulbotgisbgbkgwruiuajggRlgvgiuzbvrlgcrlx kfgkpgbmugluqg raiknuzu 
qkzo ,gswklgvg vtgkpgakouflgwzkiuaarkl,gqmulgbmugr kogbmutgv kzugrag zvql
v.ksbgrlgws.origswklgvgimvzrkbgkpgfvznuooksagxzuvbluaa;g.uar uagbmvbgfvlt
vzugbmulgauulgisbbrlxgkppgwruiuagkpgbmurzgpouamgbkgkppuzgbkgmrf,gbmuzu
vzugvglsf.uzgkpgkbmuzagqmkgwzkabzvbugbmufauonuagswklgbmugwoviu,givsarlx
bmufauonuagbkg.ugizsamu gvl g.zkculgbkgwruiuagsl uzgbmugqurxmbtgqmuuoa,
bkgk.bvrlgbmugnuluzvbrklgkpgavlibrbtgvpbuzg uvbm,gqmrimgragviikz rlxot
wvr gbmufjggBmug uvbmgkpgbmug.ramkw,gaqkz grlgmvl ,gmvagfkzugkp
fvxlvlrfrbtgrlgrb,gvl gouaagkpgaulbrfulb,gbmugvz kszgkpgikf.vbgbvcrlx
vqvtgwvzbgkpgbmugovbbuzj

Bmuzugvzugakfugxknuzlfulbagqmkgmvnugbvculgswklgbmufgbkgzuxsovbugbmu
ysabriugvl gkwwkzbslrbtgkpgnkoslbvztg uvbmjggRlgpkzfuzgbrfuagbmuzugqva
cuwbgrlgkszgirbtgkpgFvzauroouagvgwkraklgwzuwvzu gksbgkpgmufokic,gvbgbmu
ws.origimvzxu,gpkzgbmkaugqmkgmv gvgfrl gbkgmvabulgbmurzgul ,gmvnrlx
przab,g.upkzugbmugarhgmsl zu ,gqmkgquzugbmurzgaulvbu,gxrnulgviikslbgkp
bmugzuvaklagvl gfkbrnuagkpgbmurzg uarxl,gvl grbgqvaglkbgkbmuzqraugovqpso,
bmvlg.tgouvnugpzkfgbmugfvxrabzvbugvl gswklgysabgkiivarklgbkg kgnrkouliu
bkgbmufauonuaj--[NvouzrsagFvhrfsa,grrjg6,g7j]--Bmugavfugovqgqvagvoak
rlgsaugrlgkbmuzgwoviuaj

AuhbsagWkfwursa,grlgmraguhwu rbrklgrlbkgVarv,gbksimu gvbgbmugraougkpgIuv
rlgLuxzkwklb:grbgmvwwulu gqmroabgmugqvagbmuzu,gvagqugmvnugrbgpzkfgklu
bmvbgqvagqrbmgmrf,gbmvbgvgqkfvlgkpgxzuvbgesvorbt,gmvnrlxgxrnulgvlgviikslb
bkgmuzgirbrdulagqmtgamugqvagzuakonu gbkgwsbgvlgul gbkgmuzgorpu,grlnrbu 
Wkfwursagbkgmuzg uvbm,gbkgzul uzgrbgbmugfkzugmklkszv.ou,gvlgrlnrbvbrkl
bmvbgmugviiuwbu ;gvl gmvnrlxgoklxgbzru grlgnvrlg.tgbmugwkquzgkpgmra
uokesuliu,gqmrimgqvagnuztgxzuvb,gvl gwuzasvarkl,gbkg rnuzbgmuzgpzkfgbmvb
 uarxl,gmugviesruaiu grlgbmugul grlgmuzgkqlgqroojggAmugmv gwvaau gbmugvxu
kpgpkszgaikzugvl gbulgrlgvgnuztgmvwwtgabvbu,g.kbmgkpg.k tgvl gfrl ;g.urlx
bmulgovr gswklgmuzg.u ,g.ubbuzg zuaau gbmvlgkz rlvztgvl gouvlrlxgswklgmuz
uo.kq,g“Bmugxk a,”gavr gamu,g“KgAuhbsagWkfwursa,gvl gzvbmuzgbmkaugRgouvnu
bmvlgbmkaugRgxkgbkgauuc,gzuqvz gbmuu,gpkzgbmvbgbmksgmvabglkbg ra vrlu gbk
.ug.kbmgbmugikslauookzgkpgftgorpugvl gbmugqrbluaagkpgftg uvbmjggPkzgft
wvzb,gmvnrlxgvoqvtaguhwuzruliu gbmugafrouagkpgpkzbslu,gpkzgpuvzgouabgbmu
 uarzugkpgornrlxgbkkgoklxgfvtgfvcugfugauugvgiklbzvztgpviu,gRgvfgxkrlx,g.t
vgmvwwtgul ,gbkg rafraagbmugzufvrlagkpgftgakso,gouvnrlxg.umrl gbqk
 vsxmbuzagkpgftg.k tgvl gvgouxrklgkpgluwmuqa”;gqmrimgmvnrlxgavr ,gqrbm
akfuguhmkzbvbrklagbkgmuzgpvfrotgbkgornugrlgwuviu,gamug rnr u gvfklxab
bmufgmuzgxkk a,gvl gzuikfful rlxgmuzg kfuabrigxk agbkgmuzguo uab
 vsxmbuz,gamug.ko otgbkkcgbmug.kqogbmvbgiklbvrlu gbmugwkrakl,gvl gmvnrlx
fv ugmuzgnkqagvl gwzvtuzagbkgFuzisztgbkgikl sibgmuzgbkgakfugmvwwtgv.k u
rlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ,gamugzksl otgaqvookqu gbmugfkzbvogwkrakljggBmrag.urlx
 klu,gamugulbuzbvrlu gbmugikfwvltgqrbmgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgrbagkwuzvbrkl,gvl 
mkqgbmugiko g.tg uxzuuagaurdu gbmugaunuzvogwvzbagkpgmuzg.k tgklugvpbuz
vlkbmuz,gbroogmvnrlxgrlgbmugul gbko gbmufgrbg.uxvlgbkgaurdugswklgmuz
muvzbgvl g.kquoa,gamugivoou gmuzg vsxmbuzagbkg kgbmugovabgkppriugvl 
iokaugmuzgutuaj

WorltgbuooagsagkpgvgiuzbvrlgMtwuz.kzuvlglvbrklgqmuzu,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmu
aquubgbufwuzvbszugkpgbmugvrz,gornuagzvzuotgul u g.sbg.tgbmugnkoslbvzt
aszzul uzgkpgbmugrlmv.rbvlba,gqmk,g.urlxgquvztgkpgvl gavbrvbu gqrbm
ornrlx,gmv gbmugisabkf,gvbgvgnuztgko gvxu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugxkk gimuuz,
bkgwzuirwrbvbugbmufauonuagrlbkgbmugauvgpzkfgbmugbkwgkpgvgiuzbvrlgzkic,
vaarxlu gpkzgbmvbgauznriujggWvrlgvl gbmugpuvzgkpgvgqkzaug uvbmgauufgbkgfu
bmugfkabguhisav.ougrlirbufulbaj




IMVWBUZgRN

BK-FKZZKQ’AgVgLUQg VT

Rgxrnu,gvagrbgauufagbkgfu,gqrbmgxkk gzuvaklgbmugwvofgbkgYviesuagVftkbgkp
voogkszgPzulimgqzrbuza,glkbgklotgpkzgbmugarfworirbtgvl gwszrbtgkpgmra
ovlxsvxu,gqmuzurlgmuguhiuoagvoogkbmuza,glkzgpkzgmragiklabvlitgrlgxkrlx
bmzksxmgakgoklxgvgqkzc,gglkzgpkzgbmug uwbmgkpgmragclkqou xu,gmvnrlxg.uul
v.ougakgasiiuaapsootgbkgafkkbmgvl gslzvnuogakgclkbbtgvl grlbzrivbugvl
vsbmkzg(pkzgoubgwukwougbuoogfugqmvbgbmutgqroo,gRgsl uzabvl glkbmrlxgkp
Xzuuc;g.sbgRgfuubgqrbmgaulaugakgquoogslrbu gvl gfvrlbvrlu gbmzksxmksbgmra
qmkougbzvlaovbrkl,gbmvbgiuzbvrlotgmugurbmuzgcluqgbmugbzsugpvlitgkpgbmu
vsbmkz,gkzgmvnrlx,g.tg.urlxgoklxgiklnuzavlbgqrbmgmrf,grfwzrlbu gvgnrnr 
vl gxuluzvogr uvgkpgbmvbgkpgWosbvzimgrlgmragakso,gmugmvag uornuzu gsa
lkbmrlxgbmvbgurbmuzg uzkxvbuagpzkfgkzgiklbzv ribagmrf),g.sbgv.knugvoo,gR
vfgbmugfkabgbvculgqrbmgmrfgpkzgmvnrlxgfv ugakg raizuubgvgimkriugkpgvg.kkc
akgqkzbmtgvl gkpgakgxzuvbgsbrorbtgqmuzuqrbmgbkgwzuaulbgmragikslbztjggQu
rxlkzvlbgpuookqagmv g.uulgokab,gmv glkbgbmrag.kkcgzvrau gsagksbgkpgbmu
 rzb;g.tgbmragpvnkszgkpgmragqug vzuglkqgawuvcgvl gqzrbu;gbmugov ruagvzu
v.ougbkgzuv gbkgaimkkofvabuza;g‘bragkszg.zunrvztjggRpgbmragxkk gfvlg.u
tubgornrlx,gRgqkso gzuikfful gbkgmrfgHulkwmkl,gbkg kgvagfsimg.tgbmvb;
‘bragvgfsimgfkzuguvatgbvacgbmvlgbmugkbmuz,gvl giklauesulbotgfkzugwzkwuz
pkzgmragvxujggVl ,g.uar ua,gbmksxmgRgclkqglkbgmkq,gfubmrlcagmug kua
.zracot--vl giouvzotgulksxmgbzrwgknuzgabuwagvlkbmuzgqkso gmvnugabsf.ou 
vb,gtubglunuzbmuouaagmragabtougauufagbkg.ugfkzugmragkqlgqmuzugmug kuaglkb
ulikslbuzgbmkaug rpprisobrua,gvl gzkooagvqvtgvbgmragkqlguvauj

Rgqvagysabglkqgzuv rlxgbmragwvaavxugqmuzugWosbvzimgavtagkpgmrfauop,gbmvb
Zsabrisag.urlxgwzuaulbgvbgvg uiovfvbrklgkpgmragvbgZkfu,gbmuzugzuiurnu gv
wvicubgpzkfgbmugufwuzkz,gvl g upuzzu gbkgkwulgrbgbroogvoogqvag klu:gpkz
qmrim,gavtagmu,gvoogbmugikfwvltgmrxmotgvwwovs u gbmugxzvnrbtgkpgbmra
wuzakljgg‘Bragbzsu,gbmvbg.urlxgswklgbmugas.yuibgkpgiszrkarbtgvl gkpgbmvb
uvxuzgwvaarklgpkzgluqa,gqmrimgfvcuagsagqrbmgakgfsimgrl raizubrklgvl 
rfwvbruliugouvnugvoogbkgulbuzbvrlgvgluqikfuz,gvl gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
zuawuibgkzgksbizt,gbuvzgkwulgklgvgas  ul,grlgqmvbgikfwvltgakunuz,gbmu
oubbuzagbmvbgvzug uornuzu gbkgsa,gmugmv gzuvaklgbkgvwwovs gbmugxzvnrbtgkp
Zsabrisagswklgbmragkiivarkl;gvl gfrxmbgfkzuknuzgmvnugv  u gbkgrbgbmu
ikfful vbrklgkpgmragirnrorbtgvl gikszbuat,gbmvbgqkso glkbgrlbuzzswbgbmu
iszzulbgkpgmrag uiovfvbrkljgg.sbgRg ks.bgqmubmuzgvltgklugivlgikfful gmra
wzs uliu;gpkzgzuiurnrlxgsluhwuibu goubbuza,gvl guawuirvootgpzkfgvl
ufwuzkz,grbgfrxmbgmvnugpvooulgksbgbmvbgbmug upuzzrlxgbkgzuv gbmufgfrxmb
mvnug.uulgkpgxzuvbgwzuys riujggBmugnriugkwwkarbugbkgiszrkarbtgra
luxorxuliu,gbkgqmrimgRglvbszvootgrliorlu,gvl gqmuzurlgRgmvnugauulgakfu
fulgakguhbzufugbmvbgklugfrxmbgmvnugpksl goubbuzagaulbgbmufgbmzuugkzgpksz
 vtag.upkzu,gabroogauvou gswgrlgbmurzgwkicubaj

Rglunuzgkwulgvltgoubbuzag rzuibu gbkgvlkbmuz;glkbgklotgbmkaugrlbzsabu 
qrbmgfu,g.sbgunulgasimgvagpkzbslugmvagxsr u gbkgftgmvl ;gvl gvfgvlxzt
qrbmgftauopgrpgftgutuagslvqvzuagabuvogvltgiklbulbagkpgoubbuzagkp
rfwkzbvliugmugragzuv rlxgqmulgRgabvl gluvzgvgxzuvbgfvljggLunuzgqvagfvl
ouaagrlesrarbrnugkzgouaagwztrlxgrlbkgkbmuzgful’agvppvrzagbmvlgRj

Rlgkszgpvbmuza’g vta,gFklaruszg ug.ksbruzuagmv gorcugbkgmvnugokabgBszrl
pzkfgmvnrlx,gqmrougulxvxu grlgxkk gikfwvltgvbgaswwuz,g uovtu gbkgzuv 
rlpkzfvbrklgbmvbgqvagaulbgmrfgkpgbmugbzuvaklgwokbbu gvxvrlabgbmvbgirbt
qmuzugmugikffvl u jggVl gbmragnuztgWosbvzimgmvagxrnulgfugbkgsl uzabvl ,
bmvbgYsorsagIvuavzgmv gwzuauznu gmrfauop,grp,gxkrlxgbkgbmugAulvbugbmug vt
mugqvagvaavaarlvbu g.tgbmugiklawrzvbkza,gmugmv gzuv gvglkbugqmrimgqva
wzuaulbu gbkgmrfg.t,gbmugqvtjggMugbuooagvoakgbmugabkztgkpgVzimrva,gbmu
btzvlbgkpgBmu.ua,gbmvbgbmuglrxmbg.upkzugbmuguhuisbrklgkpgbmug uarxl
Wuokwr vagmv gwokbbu gbkgcroogmrfgbkgzuabkzugmragikslbztgbkgor.uzbt,gmu
mv gvgpsoogviikslbgaulbgmrfgrlgqzrbrlxg.tgvlkbmuzgVzimrva,gvlgVbmulrvl,
kpgbmugqmkougiklawrzvit,gvl gbmvb,gbmragwvicubgmvnrlxg.uulg uornuzu gbk
mrfgqmrougmugavbgvbgaswwuz,gmug upuzzu gbmugkwulrlxgkpgrb,gavtrlx,gqmrim
vpbuzqvz agbszlu gbkgvgwzknuz.grlgXzuuiu,g“.sarluaagbk-fkzzkqj”

Vgqraugfvlgfvt,gRgbmrlc,gksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgvlkbmuz,gvaglkbgbkg rabsz.gbmu
ikfwvlt,gvagZsabrisag r ,gkzglkbgbkg.zuvcgkppgvlkbmuzgvppvrzgkp
rfwkzbvliugrlgmvl ,g upuzgbkgzuv gkzgmuvzgvltgluqgbmrlxgbmvbgrag.zksxmb
mrf;g.sbgpkzgmragkqlgrlbuzuabgkzgwvzbrisovzgwouvaszu,guawuirvootgrpgmug.u
vgws.origfrlrabuz,gbmvbgmugqrooglkbgrlbuzzswbgmrag rlluzgkzg.zuvcgmra
aouuwgragrluhisav.oujggVl gbmuzugqvagvlirulbotgvbgZkfu,gbmugiklasovz
woviu,gvagbmutgivoou grb,gqmrimgqvagbmugfkabgmklkszv.ougvbgbmugbv.ou,gva
.urlxgvgwoviugkpgfkabgor.uzbt,gvl gkpgfkzugiklnulrulbgviiuaagbkgbmkaugqmk
ivfugrlgbkgawuvcgbkgbmugwuzaklgauvbu gbmuzu;g.tgqmrimgrbgvwwuvza,gbmvb
.urlxgvbgfuvb,gbmutg r glkbgbkbvootgv.vl klgbmugikliuzlgkpgkbmuzgvppvrza
vl grlir ulbajgg.sbgqmulgvoogragavr ,grbgragnuztgmvz grlgmsfvlgvibrklagbk
xrnugakguhvibgvgzsougswklgfkzvogzuvakla,gbmvbgpkzbslugqrooglkbgbmuzurl
fvrlbvrlgmuzgkqlgzrxmbj




IMVWBUZgN

KPgIKLAIRULIU

BmugAruszg ugovg.zksaau,gftg.zkbmuz,gvl gR,gbzvnuoorlxgklug vtgbkxubmuz
 szrlxgbmugbrfugkpgkszgirnrogqvza,gfubgvgxulboufvlgkpgxkk gakzbjggMugqva
kpgbmugiklbzvztgwvzbt,gbmksxmgRg r glkbgclkqgakgfsim,gpkzgmugwzubul u 
kbmuzqrau:gvl gbmugfraimrupgkl’bgra,gbmvbgrlgbmragakzbgkpgqvzgbmugivz a
vzugakgamsppou ,gtkszguluftglkbg.urlxg rabrlxsramu gpzkfgtkszauopg.tgvlt
vwwvzulbgfvzcgurbmuzgkpgovlxsvxugkzgmv.rb,gvl g.urlxglkszramu gsl uzgbmu
avfugovq,gvrz,gvl gfvlluza,grbgragnuztgmvz gbkgvnkr g rakz uzgvl 
iklpsarkljggBmragfv ugfugvpzvr gftauopgkpgfuubrlxgvltgkpgkszgbzkkwagrlgv
woviugqmuzugRgqvaglkbgclkql,gbmvbgRgfrxmbglkbg.ugrlgpuvzgbkgbuoogftglvfu,
vl gwuzv nulbszugkpgakfubmrlxgqkzau;gvagrbgmv g.upvooulgfug.upkzu,gqmuzu,
.tgasimgvgfrabvcu,gRgokabg.kbmgfulgvl gmkzaua,gvl gvfklxabgkbmuzagvl
Rbvorvlgxulboufvlgftgwvxu,gqmkfgRg.zu gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgivzugvl 
vppuibrkl,gqvagfrauzv.otgaovrl,grlgqmkfgvgtksbmgkpgxzuvbgwzkfraugvl 
uhwuibvbrklgqvaguhbrlxsramu jgg.sbgbmugxulboufvlgftg.zkbmuzgvl gRgfub
mv gakg uawuzvbu,gmvop- uv gvgpuvzgswklgmrfgvbgfuubrlxgqrbmgvltgmkzau,
kzgwvaarlxg.tgvltgkpgbmugbkqlagbmvbgmuo gpkzgbmugCrlx,gbmvbgRgvbgovab
 raiknuzu grbgbkg.ugvovzfagkpgiklairuliujggRbgauufu gbkgbmugwkkzgfvlgva
rpgbmzksxmgmragnrakzgvl gbmugizkaauagswklgmragivaakic,gklugqkso gmvnu
wulubzvbu grlbkgmrag.kakfgvl gzuv gbmugfkabgauizubgrlbulbrklagkpgmra
muvzb;gakgqkl uzpsogragbmugwkquzgkpgiklairuliujggRbgfvcuagsag.ubzvt,
viisau,gvl gprxmbgvxvrlabgkszauonua,gvl gpkzgqvlbgkpgkbmuzgqrbluaaua,gbk
xrnugunr uliugvxvrlabgkszauonua:

ggggggggggggggg“Kiisobsfgesvbrulagvlrfkgbkzbkzugpovxuoosfj”

ggggg[“Bmugbkzbszuzgkpgbmugaksog.zvl ramrlxgvgamvzwgaikszxugqrbmrlj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,grrrjg195j]

Bmragabkztgragrlgunuztgimro ’agfksbm:g.uaasagbmugWvuklrvl,g.urlx
zuwzkvimu gpkzgqvlbklotgwsoorlxg kqlgvgluabgkpgtkslxgawvzzkqagvl gcroorlx
bmuf,gzuworu ,gbmvbgmugmv gzuvaklgbkg kgak,gauurlxgbmvbgbmkaugorbbou
.rz aglunuzgiuvau gpvoauotgbkgviisaugmrfgkpgbmugfsz uzgkpgmragpvbmuzj
Bmragwvzzrir ugmv gbroogbmulg.uulgikliuvou gvl gslclkql,g.sbgbmu
zunulxrlxgpsztgkpgiklairuliugivsau grbgbkg.ug raiknuzu g.tgmrfgmrfauop,
qmkgqvagbkgasppuzgpkzgrbjggMuark gikzzuibagbmugavtrlxgkpgWovbk,gbmvb
wslramfulbgiokauotgpkookqagarl,grbg.urlx,gvagmugavta,g.kzlgvbgbmugavfu
brfugqrbmgrbjggQmkunuzguhwuibagwslramfulbgvozuv tgasppuzagrb,gvl gqmkunuz
mvag uauznu grbguhwuibagrbjggQricu luaagiklbzrnuagbkzfulbagvxvrlab
rbauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Fvosfgiklarorsfgiklasobkzrgwuaarfsfj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Roog uarxlagvzugqkzabgbkgbmugiklbzrnuzj”
gggggggggggggggg--Vws gVsojgXuoorsf,grnjg5j]

vagbmugqvawgabrlxagvl gmszbagvlkbmuz,g.sbgfkabgkpgvoogrbauop,gpkzgrb
bmuzugokauagrbagabrlxgvl grbagsaugpkzgunuz,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nrbvaesugrlgnsoluzugwklslbj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Vl gouvnugbmurzgkqlgornuagrlgbmugqksl j”
gggggggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukj,grnjg238j]

Ivlbmvzr uagmvnugakfuqmuzugv.ksbgbmuf,g.tgvgiklbzvzrubtgkpglvbszu,gv
ikslbuzwkraklgvxvrlabgbmurzgwkrakljggRlgorcugfvlluz,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu
bmvbgfulgbvcug uorxmbgrlgnriu,gbmuzugawzrlxagrlgbmugiklairuliugv
 rawouvaszugbmvbgvpporibagsagaouuwrlxgvl gqvcrlxgqrbmgnvzrksagbkzfulbrlx
rfvxrlvbrkla:

gggggggggggggg“Esrwwugs.rgaugfsobr,gwuzgakflrvgavuwugokesulbua,
gggggggggggggggVsbgfkz.kg uorzvlbua,gwzkbzvhugpuzvlbsz,
gggggggggggggggUbgiuovbvg rsgrlgfu rsfgwuiivbvg u raauj”

ggggg[“Aszuotgqmuzugfvlt,gkpbulgbvocrlxgrlgbmurzgaouuw,gkzgzvnrlxgrl
ggggg rauvau,gvzugavr gbkgmvnug.ubzvtu gbmufauonua,gvl gbkgmvnugxrnul
gggggws.orirbtgbkgkppuliuagoklxgikliuvou j”--Osizubrsa,gnjg1157j]

Vwkook kzsag zuvfu gbmvbgmugavqgmrfauopgpovtu g.tgbmugAitbmrvlagvl 
vpbuzqvz ag.krou grlgvgivso zkl,gvl gbmvbgmragmuvzbgfsbbuzu gbmuaugqkz a
“Rgvfgbmugivsaugkpgvoogbmuaugfraimrupagbmvbgmvnug.upvooulgbmuuj”
gUwriszsagavr gbmvbglkgmr rlx-mkougikso gikliuvogbmugqricu ,garliugbmut
ikso glunuzgvaaszugbmufauonuagkpg.urlxgmr gqmroabgbmurzgiklairuliu
 raiknuzu gbmufgbkgbmufauonuaj

gggggggggggggggggggg“Wzrfvguabgmvuigsobrk,gesk gau
gggggggggggggggYs riuglufkglkiulagv.akmrbszj”

ggggg[“Bragbmugprzabgwslramfulbgkpgarlgbmvbglkgfvlgv.akonuagmrfauopj”gkz:
ggggg“Bmragragbmugmrxmuabgzunulxu,gbmvbg.tgrbagys xfulbglkgkppul uzgra
gggggv.akonu j”--Ysnulvo,ghrrrjg2j]

Vagvlgroogiklairuliugprooagsagqrbmgpuvz,gakgvgxkk gklugxrnuagsagxzuvbuz
iklpr uliugvl gvaaszvliu;gvl gRgivlgbzsotgavtgbmvbgRgmvnugxklugbmzksxm
aunuzvogmvdvz agqrbmgvgfkzugabuv tgwviugrlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugauizub
clkqou xugRgmv gkpgftgkqlgqroogvl gbmugrllkiuliugkpgftgrlbulbrkla:

ggggggggg“Iklairvgfulagsbgisresugasvguab,grbvgiklirwrbgrlbzv
ggggggggggWuibkzvgwzkgpvibkgawufesugfubsfesugaskj”

ggggg[“Vagvgfvl’agiklairuliugra,gakgqrbmrlgmkwugkzgpuvzgwzunvroa,gasrbrlx
gggggbkgmrag uarxlj”--Knr ,gPvabj,grjg485j]

Kpgbmragvzugvgbmksavl guhvfwoua;g.sbgrbgqroog.ugulksxmgbkgrlabvliugbmzuu
kpgklugvl gbmugavfugwuzakljggAirwrk,g.urlxgklug vtgviisau g.upkzugbmu
wukwougkpgZkfugkpgakfugizrfuagkpgvgnuztgmrxmglvbszu,grlabuv gkpguhisarlx
mrfauopgkzgpovbbuzrlxgmragys xua:g“Rbgqroog.uikfugtksgquoo,”gavr gmu,
“bkgarbgrlgys xfulbgswklgvgmuv ,g.tgqmkaugfuvlagtksgmvnugbmugwkquzgbk
ys xugvoogbmugqkzo j”ggVlkbmuzgbrfu,gvoogbmugvlaquzgmugxvnugbkgaunuzvo
rfwuvimfulbag.zksxmbgvxvrlabgmrfg.tgvgbzr.slugkpgbmugwukwou,grlabuv gkp
fvcrlxgmrag upuliu:g“Oubgsagxk,girbrdula,”gavr gmu,g“oubgsagxkgzul uz
bmvlcagbkgbmugxk agpkzgbmugnribkztgbmutgxvnugfugknuzgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvlagva
bmrag vt,”gvl gv nvlirlxgmrfauopg.upkzugbkqvz agbmugBufwou,gmugmv 
wzuaulbotgvoogbmugvaauf.otgvl gmragnuztgviisauzgmrfauopgpkookqrlxgvbgmra
muuoajggVl gWubrorsa,gmvnrlxg.uulgaubgklg.tgIvbkgbkg ufvl gvlgviikslbgkp
bmugfklutgbmvbgmv gwvaau gbmzksxmgmragmvl agrlgbmugwzknrliugkpgVlbrkim,
Airwrkg.urlxgikfugrlbkgbmugaulvbugbkgbmvbgwszwkau,gwzk siu gvg.kkcgpzkf
sl uzgmragzk.u,gqmuzurlgmugbko gbmufgqvagvlguhvibgviikslbgkpgmragzuiurwba
vl g ra.szaufulba;g.sbg.urlxgzuesrzu gbkg uornuzgrbgbkgbmugwzkbmklkbvzt
bkg.uguhvfrlu ,gmugzupsau ,gavtrlx,gmugqkso glkbg kgmrfauopgakgxzuvbgv
 raxzviu;gvl grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmugqmkougaulvbugbkzugbmug.kkcgqrbmgmra
kqlgmvl agbkgwruiuajggRg kglkbg.uorunugbmvbgbmugfkabgauvzu giklairuliu
ikso gmvnugikslbuzpurbu gakgxzuvbgvlgvaaszvliujggMugmv glvbszvootgbkk
mrxmgvgawrzrbgvl gqvagviisabkfu gbkgbkkgmrxmgvgpkzbslu,gavtagBrbrsa
Ornrsa,gbkgclkqgmkqgbkg.ugizrfrlvo,gvl gbkgokquzgmrfauopgbkgbmugfuvlluaa
kpg upul rlxgmragrllkiuliujggBmugwsbbrlxgfulgbkgbmugzvicgragvg vlxuzksa
rlnulbrkl,gvl gauufagbkg.ugzvbmuzgvgbzrvogkpgwvbruliugbmvlgkpgbzsbmj
.kbmgmugqmkgmvagbmugpkzbrbs ugbkgul szugrbgikliuvoagbmugbzsbm,gvl gmugqmk
mvaglkb:gpkzgqmtgamkso gwvrlgakkluzgfvcugfugiklpuaagqmvbgzuvootgra,gbmvl
pkziugfugbkgavtgqmvbgraglkb?ggVl ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,grpgmugqmkgraglkb
xsrobtgkpgbmvbgqmuzukpgmugragviisau ,gmvagbmugikszvxugbkgsl uzxkgbmkau
bkzfulba,gqmtgamkso glkbgmugqmkgragxsrobtgmvnugbmugavfu,gakgpvrzgvgzuqvz 
vagorpug.urlxgrlgmragwzkawuib?ggRg.uorunugbmugxzksl gkpgbmragrlnulbrkl
wzkiuu agpzkfgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugpkziugkpgiklairuliu:gpkz,gbkgbmu
xsrobt,grbgauufagbkgvaarabgbmugzvicgbkgfvcugmrfgiklpuaagmragpvsobgvl gbk
amvcugmragzuakosbrkl;gvl ,gklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gbmvbgrbgpkzbrpruagbmu
rllkiulbgvxvrlabgbmugbkzbszujgg.sbgqmulgvoograg klu,g‘bra,grlgwovrl
bzsbm,gvgbzrvogpsoogkpgsliuzbvrlbtgvl g vlxuzgqmvbgqkso glkbgvgfvlgavt,
qmvbgqkso glkbgvgfvlg k,gbkgvnkr gakgrlbkouzv.ougbkzfulba?

ggggggggggggggg“Ubrvfgrllkiulbuagikxrbgfulbrzrg kokzj”

ggggg[“Wvrlgqroogfvcugunulgbmugrllkiulbgoruj”--Ws.orsagAtzsa,g ug kokzuj]

Qmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaa,gbmvbgmrfgqmkfgbmugys xugmvagzvicu gbmvbgmugfvt
lkbg rugrllkiulb,gmugfvcuagmrfg rug.kbmgrllkiulbgvl gzvicu jggVgbmksavl 
vl gvgbmksavl gmvnugimvzxu gbmurzgkqlgmuv ag.tgpvoaugiklpuaarkla,gvfklxab
qmkfgRgwoviugWmrokbva,giklar uzrlxgbmugirzisfabvliuagkpgbmugbzrvo
Vouhvl uzgwsbgswklgmrfgvl gbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmragbkzbszujgg.sbgakgrbgra
bmvbgakfugavtgrbgragbmugouvabgunrogmsfvlgquvcluaagikso grlnulb;gnuzt
rlmsfvlot,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvl gbkgnuztgorbbougwszwkau,grlgftgkwrlrklj

Fvltglvbrklagouaag.vz.vzksagrlgbmragbmvlgbmugXzuucagvl gZkfvlagqmkgivoo
bmufgak,gzuwsbugrbgmkzzr.ougvl gizsuogbkgbkzfulbgvl gwsoogvgfvlgbkgwruiua
pkzgvgpvsobgkpgqmrimgbmutgvzugtubgrlg ks.bjggMkqgivlgmugmuowgtksz
rxlkzvliu?ggVzuglkbgtksgslysab,gbmvb,glkbgbkgcroogmrfgqrbmksbgivsau,g k
qkzaugbmvlgcroogmrf?ggVl gbmvbgbmragragak,g kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgkpbulgful
wzupuzgbkg rugqrbmksbgzuvaklgbmvlgsl uzxkgbmraguhvfrlvbrkl,gfkzugwvrlpso
bmvlguhuisbrklgrbauop;gvl gbmvbgkpb-brfuag.tgrbaguhbzufrbtgvlbrirwvbua
uhuisbrkl,gvl gwuzpkzfgrbjggRgclkqglkbgqmuzugRgmv gbmragabkzt,g.sbgrb
uhvibotgfvbimuagbmugiklairuliugkpgkszgysabriugrlgbmragwvzbrisovzjggV
ikslbzt-qkfvl,gbkgvgxuluzvogkpgvgnuztgaunuzug rairworlu,gviisau gklugkp
mragako ruzagbmvbgmugmv gbvculgpzkfgmuzgimro zulgbmugorbbougakswgfuvbgamu
mv goupbgbkglkszramgbmufgqrbmvo,gbmugvzftgmvnrlxgiklasfu gvoogbmugzuab;
.sbgkpgbmragwzkkpgbmuzugqvaglklujggBmugxuluzvo,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgivsbrklu 
bmugqkfvlgbkgbvcugxkk gmuu gbkgqmvbgamugavr ,gpkzgbmvbgamugqkso gfvcu
muzauopgxsrobtgkpgvgpvoaugviisavbrklgrpgamugbko gvgoru,gvl gamu
wuzarabrlx,gmugwzuaulbotgivsau gbmugako ruz’ag.uootgbkg.ugzrwwu gswgbk
iouvzgbmugbzsbmgkpgbmugpvib,gvl gbmugqkfvlgqvagpksl gbkg.ugzrxmbjggVl
rlabzsibrnugaulbuliuj




IMVWBUZgNR

SAUgFVCUAgWUZPUIB

‘Braglkbgbkg.uguhwuibu gbmvbgvzxsfulbgvl grlabzsibrkl,gbmksxmgquglunuzgak
nkoslbvzrotgaszzul uzgkszg.uorupgbkgqmvbgragzuv gbkgsa,gamkso g.ugkp
pkziugbkgouv gsagklgakgpvzgvagbkgvibrkl,grpgqug kglkb,gknuzgvl gv.knu,
uhuziraugvl gpkzfgbmugaksog.tguhwuzruliugbkgbmugikszaugpkzgqmrimgqu
 uarxlgrb;grbgqroo,gkbmuzqrau,g ks.bouaagprl grbauopgvbgvgokaagqmulgrb
ikfuagbkgbmugwrlimgkpgbmug.sarluaajggBmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmkaugvfklxab
bmugwmrokakwmuzagqmkgquzugvf.rbrksagbkgvbbvrlgbkgvgxzuvbuzguhiuoouliu,
quzuglkbgiklbulbu gbkgvqvrbgbmugaunuzrbruagkpgpkzbslugrlgbmugzubrzufulb
vl gzuwkaugkpgbmurzgkqlgmv.rbvbrkla,gouabgmugamkso gmvnugaszwzrau gbmuf
zvqgvl grluhwuzbgrlgbmugikf.vb,g.sbgavooru gksbgbkgfuubgmuz,gvl 
wszwkauotgbmzuqgbmufauonuagrlbkgbmugwzkkpgkpg rpprisobruajggAkfugkpgbmuf
v.vl klu gzrimuagbkguhuziraugbmufauonuagrlgvgnkoslbvztgwknuzbt;gkbmuza
aksxmbgksbgov.kszgvl gvlgvsabuzrbtgkpgorpu,gbkgrlszugbmufgbkgmvz amrwa
vl grliklnulruliua;gkbmuzagmvnug uwzrnu gbmufauonuagkpgbmurzg uvzuab
fuf.uza,gvagkpgarxmb,gvl gkpgbmugrlabzsfulbagkpgxuluzvbrkl,gouabgbmurz
bkkg uorxmbpsogvl guppufrlvbugauznriugamkso gakpbulgvl g u.vsimgbmu
abv.rorbtgkpgbmurzgaksoaj

.sbgrlg trlx,gqmrimgragbmugxzuvbuabgqkzcgqugmvnugbkg k,gwzvibriugivlgxrnu
saglkgvaarabvliugvbgvoojggVgfvlgfvtg.tgisabkfgpkzbrptgmrfauopgvxvrlab
wvrl,gamvfu,gluiuaarbt,gvl gasim-orcugviir ulba,g.sbgvagbkg uvbm,gqugivl
uhwuzrfulbgrbg.sbgkliu,gvl gvzugvoogvwwzulbriuagqmulgqugikfugbkgrbj
Bmuzugmvnu,gvlirulbot,g.uulgfulgakguhiuooulbgfvlvxuzagkpgbmurzgbrfugbmvb
bmutgmvnugbzru gunulgrlg uvbmgrbauopgbkgzuoramgvl gbvabugrb,gvl gqmkgmvnu
.ulbgbmurzgsbfkabgpvisobruagkpgfrl gbkg raiknuzgqmvbgbmragwvaavxugra,g.sb
bmutgvzuglklugkpgbmufgikfug.vicgbkgbuoogsagbmugluqa:

ggggggggggggggg“Lufkguhwuzxrbsaguhabvb,
gggggggggggggggPzrxr vgesuzlgaufuoguabgnrbvrgwvsavgauessbvj”

ggggg[“Lkgklugqvcuagqmkgmvagkliugpvooulgrlbkgbmugiko gaouuwgkpg uvbmj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg942]

YsorsagIvlsa,gvglk.ougZkfvl,gkpgarlxsovzgiklabvlitgvl gnrzbsu,gmvnrlx
.uulgikl uflu gbkg rug.tgbmvbgqkzbmouaagpuookqgIvorxsov,g.uar uagfvlt
fvznuooksagbuabrfklruagbmvbgmugxvnugkpgmragzuakosbrkl,gvagmugqvagysab
xkrlxgbkgzuiurnugbmugabzkcugkpgbmuguhuisbrkluz,gqvagvacu g.tgv
wmrokakwmuz,gvgpzrul gkpgmra:g“Quoo,gIvlsa,gqmuzuv.ksbgragtkszgaksoglkq?
qmvbgragamug krlx?ggQmvbgvzugtksgbmrlcrlxgkp?”--“Rgqvagbmrlcrlx,”gzuworu 
bmugkbmuz,g“bkgcuuwgftauopgzuv t,gvl gbmugpvisobruagkpgftgfrl gpsoo
aubbou gvl gprhu ,gbkgbztgrpgrlgbmragamkzbgvl gesricgrlabvlbgkpg uvbm,gR
ikso gwuziurnugbmugfkbrklgkpgbmugaksogqmulgamugwvzbagpzkfgbmug.k t,gvl 
qmubmuzgamugmvagvltgaulbrfulbgvbgbmugauwvzvbrkl,gbmvbgRgfvtgvpbuzgikfu
vxvrlgrpgRgivl,gbkgviesvrlbgftgpzrul agqrbmgrbj”ggBmragfvlgwmrokakwmraua
lkbgslbkg uvbmgklot,g.sbgrlg uvbmgrbauopjggQmvbgvgabzvlxugvaaszvliugqva
bmra,gvl gqmvbg.zvnuztgkpgikszvxu,gbkg uarzugmrag uvbmgamkso g.ugvgouaakl
bkgmrf,gvl gbkgmvnugouraszugbkgbmrlcgkpgkbmuzgbmrlxagrlgakgxzuvbgvl
vppvrz:

ggggggggggggggg“Ysagmkigvlrfrgfkzrulbragmv.u.vbj”

ggggg[“Bmragfrxmbtgwkquzgkpgfrl gmugmv g trlxj”-Osivl,gnrrrjg636j]

Vl gtubgRgpvlit,gbmuzugragvgiuzbvrlgqvtgkpgfvcrlxgrbgpvfrorvzgbkgsa,gvl 
rlgakfugakzbgkpgfvcrlxgbzrvogqmvbgrbgrajggQugfvtgxvrlguhwuzruliu,grpglkb
ulbrzugvl gwuzpuib,gtubgasim,gvbgouvab,gvagamvooglkbg.ugbkbvootgsauouaa
bkgsa,gvl gbmvbgfvtgzul uzgsagfkzugiklpr ulbgvl gfkzugvaaszu jggRpgqu
ivllkbgknuzbvcugrb,gqugfvtgvwwzkvimgrbgvl gnruqgrb,gvl grpgqug kglkb
v nvliugakgpvzgvagbmugpkzb,gqugfvtgvbgouvabg raiknuzgvl gfvcugkszauonua
viesvrlbu gqrbmgbmugvnulsuajggRbgraglkbgqrbmksbgzuvaklgbmvbgqugvzugbvsxmb
bkgiklar uzgaouuwgvagvgzuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm:gqrbmgmkqgxzuvbgpvirorbtg k
qugwvaagpzkfgqvcrlxgbkgaouuwrlx,gvl gqrbmgmkqgorbbougikliuzlg kgqugokau
bmugclkqou xugkpgorxmbgvl gkpgkszauonuajggWuzv nulbszu,gbmugpvisobtgkp
aouuwrlxgqkso gauufgsauouaagvl giklbzvztgbkglvbszu,garliugrbg uwzrnuagsa
kpgvoogvibrklgvl gaulbrfulb,gquzugrbglkbgbmvbg.tgrbglvbszugrlabzsibagsa
bmvbgamugmvaguesvootgfv ugsagbkg rugvagbkgornu;gvl grlgorpugwzuaulbagbk
sagbmugubuzlvogabvbugamugzuauznuagpkzgsagvpbuzgrb,gbkgviisabkfgsagbkgrb
vl gbkgbvcugpzkfgsagbmugpuvzgkpgrbjgg.sbgasimgvagmvnug.tgnrkoulbgviir ulb
pvooulgrlbkgvgaqkkl,gvl grlgrbgmvnugokabgvoogaulau,gbmuau,gfubmrlca,gmvnu
.uulgnuztgluvzgauurlxgbmugbzsugvl glvbszvogpviugkpg uvbm;gpkzgvagbkgbmu
fkfulbgkpgbmugwvaavxu,grbgraglkbgbkg.ugpuvzu gbmvbgrbg.zrlxagqrbmgrbgvlt
wvrlgkzg rawouvaszu,gpkzvafsimgvagqugivlgmvnuglkgpuuorlxgqrbmksbgouraszu;
kszgasppuzrlxagzuesrzugbrfu,gqmrimgrlg uvbmgragakgamkzb,gvl gak
wzuirwrbksa,gbmvbgrbgfsabgluiuaavzrotg.ugrlaular.oujggBmutgvzugbmu
vwwzkvimuagbmvbgqugvzugbkgpuvz,gvl gbmuaugfvtgpvoogqrbmrlgbmugorfrbagkp
uhwuzruliuj

Fvltgbmrlxagauufgxzuvbuzg.tgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvlgbmutgvzugrlguppuib;gRgmvnu
wvaau gvgxkk gwvzbgkpgftgorpugrlgvgwuzpuibgvl gulbrzugmuvobm;gRgavt,glkb
klotgulbrzu,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gawzrxmbotgvl gqvlbkljggBmragabvbu,gakgpsoogkp
nuz szu,gykoorbt,gvl gnrxksz,gfv ugbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgaricluaagak
pkzfr v.ougbkgfu,gbmvbgqmulgRgivfugbkguhwuzruliugrb,gRgpksl gbmugvbbvica
pvrlbgvl guvatgrlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgqmvbgRgmv gvwwzumul u jggKpgbmragRgmvnu
 vrotguhwuzruliu;grpgRgvfgsl uzgbmugamuobuzgkpgvgqvzfgzkkf,grlgvgabkzft
vl gbufwuabsksaglrxmb,gRgqkl uzgmkqgwukwougivlgornugv.zkv ,gvl gvf
vpporibu gpkzgbmkaugqmkgvzugksbgrlgbmugpruo a:grpgRgvfgbmuzugftauop,gRg k
lkbgqramgbkg.ugvltqmuzuguoaujggBmragklugbmrlxgkpg.urlxgvoqvtagamsbgswgrl
vgimvf.uzgRgpvliru grlaswwkzbv.ou:g.sbgRgqvagwzuaulbotgrlszu gbkg.ugak
rfwzraklu gvgquuc,glvtgvgfklbmgbkxubmuz,grlgvgnuztgquvc,g rakz uzu ,gvl 
av gikl rbrkl;gvl gRgmvnugpksl gbmvb,grlgbmugbrfugkpgftgmuvobm,gRgfsim
fkzugwrbru gbmugaric,gbmvlgRgbmrlcgftauopgbkg.ugwrbru gqmulgRgvfgak,gvl 
bmvbgbmugpkziugkpgftgrfvxrlvbrklgulmvliuagluvzgklu-mvopgkpgbmuguaauliu
vl gzuvorbtgkpgbmugbmrlxjggRgmkwugbmvbgqmulgRgikfugbkg rugRgamvoogprl grb
bmugavfu,gvl gbmvb,gvpbuzgvoo,grbgraglkbgqkzbmgbmugwvrlagRgbvcu,gakgfsim
wzuwvzvbrklgvl gakgfsimgvaarabvliugvagRgivoogrl,gbkgsl uzxkgbmugabzkcuj
.sb,gvbgvoogunulba,gqugivllkbgxrnugkszauonuagbkkgfsimgv nvlbvxuj

Rlgbmugbrfugkpgkszgbmrz gkzgauikl gbzks.ouag(Rg kglkbgquoogzufuf.uz
qmrim),gxkrlxgklug vtgv.zkv gbkgbvcugbmugvrz,gv.ksbgvgouvxsugpzkfgftgkql
mksau,gqmrimgragauvbu grlgbmugnuztgiulbzugkpgvoogbmug.sabougvl gfraimrup
kpgbmugovbugirnrogqvzagrlgPzvliu;gbmrlcrlxgftauopgrlgvoogauiszrbtgvl gak
luvzgbkgftgzubzuvbgbmvbgRgabkk grlgluu gkpglkg.ubbuzguesrwvxu,gRgmv 
bvculgvgmkzaugbmvbgqulbgnuztguvatgswklgmragwviu,g.sbgqvaglkbgnuztgabzklxj
.urlxgswklgftgzubszlgmkfu,gvgas  ulgkiivarklgpvoorlxgksbgbkgfvcugsaugkp
bmragmkzaugrlgvgcrl gkpgauznriugbmvbgmugqvaglkbgviisabkfu gbk,gklugkpgft
bzvrl,gvgosabt,gbvoogpuookq,gfkslbu gswklgvgabzklxgXuzfvlgmkzau,gbmvbgmv 
vgnuztgroogfksbm,gpzuamgvl gnrxkzksa,gbkgwovtgbmug.zvnugvl gaubgklgvmuv 
kpgmragpuookqa,gikfuagbmsl uzrlxgpsoogawuu grlgbmugnuztgbzvicgqmuzugR
qva,gzsamrlxgorcugvgIkokaasagswklgbmugorbbougfvlgvl gbmugorbbougmkzau,
qrbmgasimgvgivzuuzgkpgabzulxbmgvl gqurxmb,gbmvbgmugbszlu gsag.kbmgknuz
vl gknuz,gbkwat-bszntgqrbmgkszgmuuoagrlgbmugvrz:gakgbmvbgbmuzugovtgbmu
mkzaugknuzbmzkqlgvl gabsllu gqrbmgbmugpvoo,gvl gRgbulgkzgbquonugwviua
pzkfgmrfgabzubimu gksbgvbgoulxbm,gqrbmgftgpviugvoog.vbbuzu gvl g.zkcul,
ftgaqkz gqmrimgRgmv gmv grlgftgmvl ,gv.knugbulgwviuag.utkl gbmvb,gvl gft
.uobg.zkculgvoogbkgwruiua,gqrbmksbgfkbrklgkzgaulaugvltgfkzugbmvlgvgabkicj
‘BqvagbmugklotgaqkklgRgqvagunuzgrlgbroogbmvbgmkszgrlgftgorpujggBmkaugqmk
quzugqrbmgfu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgsau gvoogbmugfuvlagbmutgikso gbkg.zrlxgfugbk
ftauop,giklios rlxgfug uv ,gbkkcgfugswgrlgbmurzgvzfa,gvl givzzru gfugqrbm
nuztgfsimg rpprisobtgmkfugbkgftgmksau,gqmrimgqvagv.ksbgmvopgvgPzulim
ouvxsugpzkfgbmuliujggKlgbmugqvt,gmvnrlxg.uulgpkzgfkzugbmvlgbqkgmksza
xrnulgknuzgpkzgvg uv gfvl,gRg.uxvlgbkgfknugvl gbkgpubimgftg.zuvbm;gpkzgak
xzuvbgv.sl vliugkpg.okk gqvagpvooulgrlbkgftgabkfvim,gbmvbglvbszugmv gluu 
bkgzksaugmuzgpkziuagbkg raimvzxugrbjggBmutgbmulgzvrau gfugswklgftgpuub,
qmuzugRgbmzuqgkppgvgqmkoug.sicubgkpgiokbagkpg.okk ,gvagbmragRg r gvoak
aunuzvogbrfuag.tgbmugqvtjggBmragxvnugfugakgfsimguvau,gbmvbgRg.uxvlgbk
zuiknuzgvgorbbougorpu,g.sbgakgouraszuotgvl g.tgakgafvoogv nvliua,gbmvbgft
przabgaulbrfulbagquzugfsimgluvzuzgbmugvwwzkvimuagkpg uvbmgbmvlgorpu:

ggggggggggggggg“Wuzimu,g s..rkavgvlikzg uogaskgzrbkzlk,
gggggggggggggggLklga’vaariszvgvbbklrbvgovgfulbuj”

gggg[“Pkzgbmugakso,g ks.bpsogvagbkgrbagzubszl,gikso glkbgikfwkaugrbauop”
gggggg--Bvaak,gXruzsajggOr.j,ghrrjg74j]

Bmugzufuf.zvliugkpgbmragviir ulb,gqmrimgragnuztgquoogrfwzrlbu grlgft
fufkzt,gakglvbszvootgzuwzuaulbrlxgbkgfugbmugrfvxugvl gr uvgkpg uvbm,gmva
rlgakfugakzbgzuiklirou gfugbkgbmvbgslbkqvz gv nulbszujggQmulgRgprzab
.uxvlgbkgkwulgftgutua,grbgqvagqrbmgakgwuzwouhu ,gakgquvcgvl g uv gv
arxmb,gbmvbgRgikso gtubg rabrlxsramglkbmrlxg.sbgklotg raiuzlgbmugorxmb:

ggggggggggggggg“Ikfugesuogim’kzgvwzu,gkz’imrs u
gggggggggggggggXorgkiimr,gfuddkgbzv’ogakllkgugo’uaauzg uabkj”

ggggg[“Vagvgfvlgbmvbglkqgkwula,glkqgamsbagmragutua,g.ubquulgaouuw
gggggvl gqvcrlxj”--Bvaak,gXruzsajggOr.j,gnrrrj,g26j]

Vagbkgbmugpslibrklagkpgbmugakso,gbmutgv nvliu gqrbmgbmugavfugwviugvl 
fuvaszugqrbmgbmkaugkpgbmug.k tjggRgavqgftauopgvoog.okk t,gftg ks.oub
.urlxgabvrlu gvoogknuzgqrbmgbmug.okk gRgmv gnkfrbu jggBmugprzabgbmksxmb
bmvbgivfugrlbkgftgfrl gqvagbmvbgRgmv gvgmvzesu.saagamkbgrlgftgmuv ,gvl 
rl uu ,gvbgbmugbrfugbmuzugquzugvgxzuvbgfvltgprzu gzksl gv.ksbgsaj
Fubmksxmbgftgorpug.sbgysabgmslxgswklgft,gorwa:gvl gRgamsbgftgutua,gbk
muow,gfubmksxmb,gbkgbmzsabgrbgksb,gvl gbkkcgvgwouvaszugrlgovlxsramrlxgvl 
oubbrlxgftauopgxkjggRbgqvagvlgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvbgklotgaswuzprirvootgpokvbu 
swklgftgakso,gvagbul uzgvl gquvcgvagvoogbmugzuab,g.sbgzuvoot,glkbgklot
uhufwbgpzkfgvltbmrlxg rawouvarlx,g.sbgfrhu gqrbmgbmvbgaquubluaagbmvb
wukwougpuuogqmulgbmutgxor ugrlbkgvgaosf.uzj

Rg.uorunugrbgragbmugnuztgavfugikl rbrklgbmkaugwukwougvzugrl,gqmkfgqugauu
aqkklgqrbmgquvcluaagrlgbmugvxkltgkpg uvbmgqugwrbtgbmufgqrbmksbgivsau,
aswwkarlxgbmufgvxrbvbu gqrbmgxzrunksag koksza,gkzgbmvbgbmurzgaksoagasppuz
sl uzgwvrlpsogbmksxmbajggRbgmvagunuzg.uulgftg.uorup,giklbzvztgbkgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgfvlt,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgkpgOvg.kubru,gbmvbgbmkaugqmkfgqugauugak
as. su gvl gabswupru gvbgbmugvwwzkvimuagkpgbmurzgul ,gkzgkwwzuaau gqrbm
bmugoulxbmgkpgbmug rauvau,gkzg.tgviir ulbgkpgvlgvwkwouhtgkzgpvoorlx
aricluaa,

ggggggggg“Nrgfkz.rgavuwugikvibsa
ggggggggggVlbugkisokagvoresraglkabzka,gsbgpsofrlragribs,
ggggggggggIklir rb,gubgawsfvagvxrb;grlxufrb,gubgbzufrbgvzbsa;
gggggggggg uarwrb,guhbulbvbgluznka,gbkzesubsz,gvlmuovb,
ggggggggggRliklabvlbuz,gubgrlgyvibvl kgfuf.zvgpvbrxvb;”

ggggg[“Kpbul,gikfwuoou g.tgbmugpkziugkpg rauvau,gakfugklugva
gggggbmsl uzabzsicgpvooagsl uzgkszgutua,gvl gpkvfa,gxzkvla,gvl gbzuf.oua,
gggggabzubimua,gbqraba,g.zuvbmuagrzzuxsovzot,gvl grlgwvzkhtafagquvzagksb
gggggmragabzulxbmj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg485j]

kzgmszbgrlgbmugmuv ,gqmkfgqugmuvzgbkgfsbbuz,gvl g.tgprbagbkgsbbuz
xzrunksagxzkvla;gbmksxmgqugxvbmuzgpzkfgbmuaugarxlag.tgqmrimgrbgauufagva
rpgbmutgmv gakfugzufvrlagkpgiklairksaluaa,gvl gbmvbgbmuzugvzugfknufulba
kpgbmug.k t;gRgmvnugvoqvtag.uorunu ,gRgavt,g.kbmgbmug.k tgvl gbmugakso
.ulsf.u gvl gvaouuw,

ggggggggggggggg“Nrnrb,gubguabgnrbvugluairsagrwaugasvu,”

ggggggggggggggg[“Mugornua,gvl g kuaglkbgclkqgbmvbgmugragvornuj”
gggggggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grjg3,g12j]

vl gikso glkbg.uorunugbmvbgrlgakgxzuvbgvgabswupvibrklgkpgbmugfuf.uzagvl 
akgxzuvbgvg upuibrklgkpgbmugaulaua,gbmugaksogikso gfvrlbvrlgvltgpkziu
qrbmrlgbkgbvcugikxlravliugkpgmuzauop,gvl gbmvb,gbmuzupkzu,gbmutgmv glk
bkzfulbrlxgzupouibrklagbkgfvcugbmufgiklar uzgvl g.ugaular.ougkpgbmu
frauztgkpgbmurzgikl rbrkl,gvl giklauesulbotgquzuglkbgfsimgbkg.ugwrbru j

Rgivl,gpkzgftgwvzb,gbmrlcgkpglkgabvbugakgrlaswwkzbv.ougvl g zuv pso,gva
bkgmvnugbmugaksognrnr gvl gvpporibu ,gqrbmksbgfuvlagbkg uiovzugrbauop;gva
klugamkso gavtgkpgasimgvagvzugaulbgbkguhuisbrklgqrbmgbmurzgbklxsuagprzab
isbgksbg(quzugrbglkbgbmvbgrlgbmragcrl gkpg trlx,gbmugfkabgaroulbgauufagbk
fugbmugfkabgxzviupso,grpgviikfwvlru gqrbmgvgxzvnugvl giklabvlb
ikslbulvliu);gkzgrpgbmkaugfrauzv.ougwzrakluza,gqmkgpvoogrlbkgbmugmvl agkp
bmug.vaugmvlxfvlgako ruzagkpgbmragvxu,g.tgqmkfgbmutgvzugbkzfulbu gqrbm
voogakzbagkpgrlmsfvlgsavxugbkgikfwuogbmufgbkgakfuguhiuaarnugvl 
rfwkaar.ougzvlakf;gcuwb,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,grlgasimgikl rbrklgvl gwoviu,
qmuzugbmutgmvnuglkgfuvlagkpguhwzuaarlxgkzgarxlrptrlxgbmurzgbmksxmbagvl 
bmurzgfrauztjggBmugwkubagmvnugpurxlu gakfugxk agqmkgpvnkszgbmu
 uornuzvliugkpgasimgvagasppuzgsl uzgvgovlxsramrlxg uvbm:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Msliguxkg rbr
gggggggggggggggAvizsfgysaavgpuzk,gbuesugrabkgikzwkzugakonkj”

ggggg[“Rg.r  ulgkppuzgbmragavizu gbmrlxgbkgWosbk,gvl gpzkfgbmvbg.k t
ggggg rafraagbmuuj”--VUlur ,grnjg782j]

.kbmgbmugrlbuzzswbu gqkz a,gvl gbmugamkzbgvl grzzuxsovzgvlaquzagklugxuba
pzkfgbmufgakfubrfua,g.tg.vqorlxgvl gcuuwrlxgvgiosbbuzgv.ksbgbmuf;gkzgbmu
fkbrklagqmrimgauufgbkgtruo gakfugiklaulbgbkgqmvbgqugqkso gmvnugbmufg k,
vzuglkgbuabrfklt,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgbmutgornu,gvlgulbrzugorpugvbgouvabj
Akgrbgmvwwulagbkgsagrlgbmugtvqlrlxgkpgaouuw,g.upkzugrbgmvagpsoot
wkaauaau gsa,gbkgwuziurnu,gvagrlgvg zuvf,gqmvbgrag klugv.ksbgsa,gvl gbk
pkookqgbmugovabgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugavr gqrbmgvgwuzwouhu gvl gsliuzbvrl
muvzrlxgqmrimgauufag.sbgbkgbksimgswklgbmug.kz uzagkpgbmugakso;gvl gbk
fvcugvlaquzagbkgbmugovabgqkz agbmvbgmvnug.uulgawkculgbkgsa,gqmrimgmvnu
fkzugrlgbmufgkpgimvliugbmvlgaulauj

LkqgauurlxgRgmvnugrlguppuibgbzru grb,gRgmvnuglkg ks.bg.sbgRgmvnugmrbmuzbk
fv ugvgzrxmbgys xfulb;gpkzgprzab,g.urlxgrlgvgaqkkl,gRgov.kszu gbkgzrw
kwulgbmug.sbbklagkpgftg ks.oubgqrbmgftglvroa,gpkzgftgaqkz gqvagxklu;gvl 
tubgRgpuobglkbmrlxgrlgftgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvbgmszbgfu;gpkzgqugmvnugfvlt
fkbrklagrlgsagbmvbg kglkbgwzkiuu gpzkfgkszg rzuibrkl;

gggggggggg“Aufrvlrfuaesugfrivlbg rxrbr,gpuzzsfesugzubzvibvlb;”

ggggg[“Mvop- uv gprlxuzagxzkwugv.ksb,gvl gxzvawgvxvrlgbmugaqkz j”
gggggg--VUlur ,ghjg396j]

akgpvoorlxgwukwouguhbul gbmurzgvzfag.upkzugbmufg.tgvglvbszvogrfwsoau,
qmrimgwzkfwbagkszgorf.agbkgkppriuagvl gfkbrklagqrbmksbgvltgikffraarkl
pzkfgkszgzuvaklj

ggggggggg“Pvoirpuzkagfufkzvlbgiszzsagv.airl uzugfuf.zvgjggjggj
ggggggggggSbgbzufuzugrlgbuzzvgnr uvbszgv.gvzbs.sagr gesk 
gggggggggg uir rbgv.airaasf;gisfgfulagbvfulgvbesugmkfrlragnra
ggggggggggFk.rorbvbugfvor,glklgesrbgaulbrzug kokzufj”

ggggg[“Bmutgzuovbugbmvbgaitbmu-.uvzrlxgimvzrkbagfkqgkppgorf.a,gakgbmvb
gggggbmutgesrnuzgklgbmugxzksl ;gvl gtubgbmugfrl gkpgmrfgpzkfgqmkfgbmu
gggggorf.gragbvculg.tgbmugaqrpbluaagkpgbmug.okqgpuuoaglkgwvrlj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grrrjg642j]

Ftgabkfvimgqvagakgkwwzuaau gqrbmgbmugikvxsovbu g.okk ,gbmvbgftgmvl a
fknu gbkgbmvbgwvzb,gkpgbmurzgkqlgnkoslbvztgfkbrkl,gvagbmutgpzuesulbotg k
bkgbmugwvzbgbmvbgrbimua,gqrbmksbg.urlxg rzuibu g.tgkszgqroojggBmuzugvzu
aunuzvogvlrfvoa,gvl gunulgful,grlgqmkfgklugfvtgwuziurnugbmugfsaiouagbk
abrzgvl gbzuf.ougvpbuzgbmutgvzug uv jggUnuztgkluguhwuzrfulbvootgclkqa
bmvbgbmuzugvzugakfugfuf.uzagqmrimgxzkqgabrppgvl gpovxgqrbmksbgmragouvnuj
Lkq,gbmkaugwvaarklagqmrimgklotgbksimgbmugksbqvz g.vzcgkpgsa,givllkbg.u
avr gbkg.ugksza:gbkgfvcugbmufgak,gbmuzugfsabg.ugvgikliszzuliugkpgbmu
qmkougfvl;gvl gbmugwvrlagqmrimgvzugpuobg.tgbmugmvl gkzgbmugpkkbgqmrou
qugvzugaouuwrlx,gvzuglklugkpgkszaj

VagRg zuqgluvzgftgkqlgmksau,gqmuzugbmugvovzfgkpgftgpvoogqvagvozuv tgxkb
.upkzugfu,gvl gftgpvfrotgquzugikfugksbgbkgfuubgfu,gqrbmgbmugms..s.gsasvo
rlgasimgivaua,glkbgklotg r gRgfvcugakfugorbbougvlaquzgbkgakfugesuabrkla
qmrimgquzugvacu gfu;g.sbgbmutgfkzuknuzgbuoogfu,gbmvbgRgqvagaspprirulbot
ikoouibu gbkgkz uzgbmufgbkg.zrlxgvgmkzaugbkgftgqrpugqmkfgklgbmugzkv ,
Rgavqgabzsxxorlxgvl gbrzrlxgmuzauopgqmrimgragmrootgvl gzsxxu jggBmra
amkso gauufgbkgwzkiuu gpzkfgvgaksogrbagpslibrkla;g.sbgrbgqvaglkbmrlxgak
qrbmgfujgRgcluqglkbgqmvbgRgavr gkzg r ,gvl gbmutgquzuglkbmrlxg.sbgr ou
bmksxmbagrlgbmugioks a,gbmvbgquzugabrzzu gswg.tgbmugaulauagkpgbmugutua
vl guvza,gvl gwzkiuu u glkbgpzkfgfujggRgcluqglkbgpkzgvoogbmvb,gqmuliugR
ivfugkzgqmrbmuzgRgqulb,glurbmuzgqvagRgivwv.ougbkgqurxmgvl giklar uzgqmvb
qvagavr gbkgfu:gbmuaugquzugorxmbguppuiba,gbmvbgbmugaulauagwzk siu gkp
bmufauonuagvagkpgisabkf;gqmvbgbmugaksogiklbzr.sbu gqvagrlgvg zuvf,
orxmbotgbksimu ,goricu gvl g.u uqu g.tgbmugakpbgrfwzuaarklgkpgbmugaulauaj
Lkbqrbmabvl rlx,gftgikl rbrklgqva,grlgbzsbm,gnuztguvatgvl gesrub;gRgmv 
lkgvpporibrklgswklgfu,gurbmuzgpkzgkbmuzagkzgftauop;grbgqvagvlguhbzufu
ovlxskzgvl gquvcluaa,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpgwvrljggRgavqgftgkqlgmksau,
.sbgcluqgrbglkbjggQmulgbmutgmv gwsbgfugbkg.u gRgpksl gvlgrluhwzuaar.ou
aquubluaagrlgbmvbgzuwkau;gpkzgRgmv g.uulg uawuzvbuotgbsxxu gvl gosxxu g.t
bmkaugwkkzgwukwougqmkgmv gbvculgbmugwvrlagbkgivzztgfugswklgbmurzgvzfagv
nuztgxzuvbgvl gvgnuztgzksxmgqvt,gvl gmv grlgakg krlxgvoogesrbugbrzu gksb
bmufauonua,gbqriugkzgbmzriugklugvpbuzgvlkbmuzjggBmutgkppuzu gfugaunuzvo
zufu rua,g.sbgRgqkso gbvcuglklu,giuzbvrlotg.uorunrlxgbmvbgRgqvagfkzbvoot
qksl u grlgbmugmuv jggVl ,grlguvzluab,grbgmv g.uulgvgnuztgmvwwtg uvbm,
pkzgbmugquvcluaagkpgftgsl uzabvl rlxg uwzrnu gfugkpgbmugpvisobtgkp
 raiuzlrlx,gvl gbmvbgkpgftg.k tgkpgbmugaulaugkpgpuuorlx;gRgqvagasppuzrlx
ftauopgbkgxor ugvqvtgakgaquubotgvl gvpbuzgakgakpbgvl guvatgvgfvlluz,gbmvb
Rgaivziugprl gvltgkbmuzgvibrklgouaagbzks.ouakfugbmvlgbmvbgqvajgg.sbgqmul
Rgivfugvxvrlgbkgftauopgvl gbkgzuasfugftgpvisobrua:

ggggggggggggggg“Sbgbvl ufgaulasagiklnvosuzugfur,”

gggggggggg[“Qmulgvbgoulxbmgftgokabgaulauagvxvrlgzubszlu j”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grjg3,g14j]

qmrimgqvagbqkgkzgbmzuugmkszagvpbuz,gRgpuobgftauopgklgvgas  ulgrlnkonu grl
buzzr.ougwvrl,gmvnrlxgftgorf.ag.vbbuzu gvl gxzksl gqrbmgftgpvoo,gvl gqvaj
akgroogpkzgbqkgkzgbmzuuglrxmbagvpbuz,gbmvbgRgbmksxmbgRgqvagkliugfkzu
 trlxgvxvrl,g.sbgvgfkzugwvrlpsog uvbm,gmvnrlxgiklios u gftauopgvagxkk gva
 uv g.upkzu,gvl gbkgbmragmkszgvfgaular.ougkpgbmug.zsrauagkpgbmvbgbuzzr.ou
amkicjggRgqrooglkbgmuzugkfrb,gbmvbgbmugovabgbmrlxgRgikso gfvcugbmufg.uvb
rlbkgftgmuv ,gqvagbmugfufkztgkpgbmragviir ulb,gvl gRgmv grbgknuzgvl gknuz
vxvrlgzuwuvbu gbkgfu,gqmrbmuzgRgqvagxkrlx,gpzkfgqmuliugRgivfu,gvl gvb
qmvbgbrfugkpgbmug vtgbmragfraimvliug.upuoogfu,g.upkzugRgikso gikfwzumul 
rbjggVagbkgbmugfvlluzgkpgftgpvoo,gbmvbgqvagikliuvou gpzkfgfugrlgpvnkszgbk
mrfgqmkgmv g.uulgbmugkiivarkl,gvl gkbmuzgporf-povfagquzugrlnulbu jgg.sbgv
oklxgbrfugvpbuz,gvl gbmugnuztgluhbg vtgbmvbgftgfufkztg.uxvlgbkgzubszlgvl 
bkgzuwzuaulbgbkgfugbmugabvbugqmuzurlgRgqva,gvbgbmugrlabvlbgbmvbgR
wuziurnu gbmragmkzaugikfrlxgpsoog zrnugswklgfug(pkzgRgmv gauulgmrfgvbgft
muuoa,gvl gxvnugftauopgpkzgxklu,g.sbgbmragbmksxmbgmv g.uulgakgas  ul,
bmvbgpuvzgmv gmv glkgouraszugbkgrlbzk siugrbauop)grbgauufu gbkgfugorcugv
povamgkpgorxmblrlxgbmvbgmv gwruziu gftgakso,gvl gbmvbgRgivfugpzkfgbmu
kbmuzgqkzo j

Bmragoklxgabkztgkpgakgorxmbgvlgviir ulbgqkso gvwwuvzgnvrlgulksxm,gquzugrb
lkbgpkzgbmugclkqou xugRgmvnugxvrlu g.tgrbgpkzgftgkqlgsau;gpkzgRg kgzuvoot
prl ,gbmvbgbkgxubgviesvrlbu gqrbmg uvbm,gluu aglkgfkzug.sbgluvzotgbk
vwwzkvimgrbjggUnuztgklu,gvagWorltgavta,gragvgxkk g kibzrlugbkgmrfauop,
wzknr u gmug.ugivwv.ougkpg raiknuzrlxgmrfauopgluvzgvbgmvl jggMuzu,gbmra
raglkbgftg kibzrlu,g‘bragftgabs t;gvl graglkbgbmugouaaklgkpgvlkbmuz,g.sb
ftgkql;gvl grpgRgikffslrivbugrb,grbgksxmbglkbgbkg.ugroogbvcul,gpkzgbmvb
qmrimgragkpgsaugbkgfu,gfvtgvoak,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugsaupsogbkgvlkbmuzjggVa
bkgbmugzuab,gRgawkroglkbmrlx,gRgfvcugsaugkpglkbmrlxg.sbgftgkql;gvl grpgR
wovtgbmugpkko,g‘bragvbgftgkqlguhwulau,gvl glk.k tguoaugragikliuzlu grl’b;
pkzg‘bragvgpkootgbmvbgqroog rugqrbmgfu,gvl gbmvbglkgklugragbkgrlmuzrbj
Qugmuvzg.sbgkpgbqkgkzgbmzuugkpgbmugvlirulba,gqmkgmvnug.uvbulgbmragwvbm,
vl gtubgRgivllkbgavtgrpgrbgqvagvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,gclkqrlxglkgfkzugkpgbmuf
.sbgbmurzglvfuajggLkgklugarliugmvagpkookqu gbmugbzvic:g‘bragvgzsxxu 
zkv ,gfkzugakgbmvlgrbgauufa,gbkgpkookqgvgwviugakgzvf.orlxgvl gsliuzbvrl,
vagbmvbgkpgbmugakso;gbkgwulubzvbugbmug vzcgwzkpsl rbruagkpgrbagrlbzrivbu
rlbuzlvogqrl rlxa;gbkgimkkaugvl govtgmko gkpgakgfvltgorbbouglrf.ou
fkbrkla;g‘bragvgluqgvl guhbzvkz rlvztgsl uzbvcrlx,gvl gbmvbgqrbm zvqagsa
pzkfgbmugikffklgvl gfkabgzuikfful u gufwoktfulbagkpgbmugqkzo jgg‘Braglkq
fvltgtuvzagarliugbmvbgftgbmksxmbagmvnugmv glkgkbmuzgvrfgvl gounuogbmvl
ftauop,gvl gbmvbgRgmvnugklotgwzru grlbkgvl gabs ru gftauop:gkz,grpgR
abs tgvltgkbmuzgbmrlx,g‘bragbkgvwwotgrbgbkgkzgzvbmuzgrlgftauopjggVl gtub
Rg kglkbgbmrlcgrbgvgpvsob,grp,gvagkbmuzag kg.tgkbmuzgfsimgouaagwzkprbv.ou
airuliua,gRgikffslrivbugqmvbgRgmvnugouvzlu grlgbmra,gbmksxmgRgvfglkbgnuzt
quoogwouvau gqrbmgftgkqlgwzkxzuaajggBmuzugraglkg uaizrwbrklgakg rpprisob,
lkzg ks.bouaagkpgakgxzuvbgsbrorbt,gvagbmvbgkpgvgfvl’agauop:gvl gqrbmvo,gv
fvlgfsabgiszogmragmvrzgvl gaubgksbgvl gv ysabgmrfauop,gbkgvwwuvzgrl
ws.ori:glkqgRgvfgwuzwubsvootgbzricrlxgftauopgksb,gpkzgRgvfgubuzlvootgswkl
ftgkqlg uaizrwbrkljggIsabkfgmvagfv ugvoogawuvcrlxgkpgvgfvl’agauop
nrirksa,gvl gwkarbrnuotgrlbuz ribagrb,grlgmvbzu gbkgbmug.kvabrlxgbmvb
auufagrlauwvzv.ougpzkfgbmugbuabrfkltgfulgxrnugkpgbmufauonua:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgnrbrsfg sirbgisowvugpsxvj”

ggggg[“Bmugvnkr rlxgvgfuzugpvsobgkpbulgouv agsagrlbkgvgxzuvbuzj”
ggggggKz:g“Bmuguaivwugpzkfgvgpvsobgouv agrlbkgvgnriu”
gggggg--Mkzviu,g ugVzbugWkubria,gnuzaug31j]

Rlabuv gkpg.okqrlxgbmugimro ’aglkau,gbmragragbkgbvcugmraglkaugkpp
vobkxubmuzjggRgbmrlcgbmugzufu tgqkzaugbmvlgbmug rauvaujgg.sb,gvookqrlxgrb
bkg.ugbzsugbmvbgrbgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugwzuasfwbrklgbkgulbuzbvrlgwukwou
qrbmg raikszauagkpgklu’agauop,gRgksxmbglkb,gwszasrlxgftgxuluzvog uarxl,
bkgpkz.uvzgvlgvibrklgbmvbgws.oramuagbmragrlprzfrbtgkpgfrlu,glkzgikliuvo
bmugpvsobgqmrimgRglkbgklotgwzvibraug.sbgwzkpuaajggLkbqrbmabvl rlx,gbk
awuvcgftgbmksxmbgpzuuot,gRgbmrlcgbmvbgbmugisabkfgkpgikl uflrlxgqrlu,
.uivsaugakfugwukwougqroog.ug zslc,gragrbauopgbkg.ugikl uflu ;gvgfvl
ivllkbgv.saugvltbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgragxkk grlgrbauop;gvl gRg.uorunugbmvbgbmra
zsougmvagklotgzuxvz gbkgbmugwkwsovzgnriujggBmutgvzug.rbagpkzgivonua,gqrbm
qmrimglurbmuzgbmugavrlbagqmkfgqugmuvzgawuvcgakgmrxmotgkpgbmufauonua,glkz
bmugwmrokakwmuza,glkzgbmug rnrluagqroog.ugisz.u ;glurbmuzgqroogR,gqmkgvf
vagorbbougbmugklugvagbmugkbmuz,gRpgbmutg kglkbgqzrbugkpgrbguhwzuaaot,gvb
voogunulba,gqmulgbmugkiivarklagvzrau,gbmutg kl’bgmuarbvbugbkgwsb
bmufauonuagklgbmugws.origmrxmqvtjggKpgqmvbg kuagAkizvbuagbzuvbgfkzu
ovzxuotgbmvlgkpgmrfauop?ggBkgqmvbg kuagmugfkzug rzuibgvl gv  zuaagbmu
 raikszauagkpgmrag rairwoua,gbmvlgbkgawuvcgkpgbmufauonua,glkbgkpgbmu
ouaaklgrlgbmurzg.kkc,g.sbgkpgbmuguaauliugvl gfkbrklgkpgbmurzgaksoa?ggQu
iklpuaagkszauonuagzuorxrksaotgbkgXk gvl gkszgiklpuaakz;gvagksz
lurxm.ksza,g kgbkgvoogbmugwukwoujgg.sbgakfugqroogvlaquzgbmvbgqugbmuzu
awuvcglkbmrlxg.sbgviisavbrklgvxvrlabgkszauonua;gqmtgbmul,gqugavtgvoo;gpkz
kszgnuztgnrzbsugrbauopgragpvsobtgvl gwulubzv.oujggFtgbzv ugvl gvzbgragbk
ornu;gmugbmvbgpkz.r agfugbkgawuvcgviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlgaulau,guhwuzruliu,
vl gwzvibriu,gfvtgvagquoogulykrlgvlgvzimrbuibglkbgbkgawuvcgkpg.sro rlx
viikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgclkqou xu,g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgbmvbgkpgmraglurxm.ksz;
viikz rlxgbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgvlkbmuz,gvl glkbgviikz rlxgbkgmragkqljggRp
rbg.ugnvrlxokztgpkzgvgfvlgbkgws.oramgmragkqlgnrzbsua,gqmtg kuaglkbgIriuzk
wzupuzgbmuguokesuliugkpgMkzbularsa,gvl gMkzbularsagbmvbgkpgIriuzk?
Wuzv nulbszugbmutgfuvlgbmvbgRgamkso gxrnugbuabrfkltgkpgftauopg.tgqkzca
vl guppuiba,glkbg.vzuotg.tgqkz ajggRgimrupotgwvrlbgftgbmksxmba,gvgas.yuib
nkr gkpgpkzfgvl grlivwv.ougkpgkwuzvbrnugwzk sibrkl;g‘bragvoogbmvbgRgivl
 kgbkgiksimgrbgrlgbmragvrztg.k tgkpgbmugnkriu;gbmugqrauabgvl g unksbuab
fulgmvnugornu grlgbmugxzuvbuabgivzugbkgvnkr gvoogvwwvzulbguppuibaj
Uppuibagqkso gfkzugawuvcgkpgpkzbslugbmvlgkpgfu;gbmutgfvlrpuabgbmurzgkql
kppriugvl glkbgfrlu,g.sbgsliuzbvrlotgvl g.tgiklyuibszu;gwvbbuzlagkpgakfu
klugwvzbrisovzgnrzbsujggRguhwkaugftauopgulbrzu;g‘bragvg.k tgqmuzu,gvbgklu
nruq,gbmugnurla,gfsaioua,gvl gbul klagvzugvwwvzulb,gunuztgkpgbmufgrlgrba
wzkwuzgwoviu;gmuzugbmuguppuibagkpgvgiko ;gbmuzugkpgbmugmuvzbg.uvbrlx,
nuztg s.rksaotjggRg kglkbgqzrbugftgkqlgviba,g.sbgftauopgvl gftguaauliuj

Rgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgvgfvlgfsabg.ugnuztgivsbrksagmkqgmugnvosuagmrfauop,
vl guesvootgiklairulbrksagbkgxrnugvgbzsugzuwkzb,g.ugrbg.ubbuzgkzgqkzau,
rfwvzbrvootjggRpgRgbmksxmbgftauopgwuzpuibotgxkk gvl gqrau,gRgqkso gzvbbou
rbgksbgbkgakfugwszwkaujggBkgawuvcgouaagkpgklu’agauopgbmvlgqmvbgklugzuvoot
ragragpkoot,glkbgfk uabt;gvl gbkgbvcugbmvbgpkzgiszzulbgwvtgqmrimgragsl uz
vgfvl’agnvosugragwsaroovlrfrbtgvl gikqvz riu,gviikz rlxgbk,gVzrabkbouj
Lkgnrzbsugvaarabagrbauopgqrbmgpvoaumkk ;gbzsbmgraglunuzgfvbbuzgkpguzzkzj
Bkgawuvcgfkzugkpgklu’agauopgbmvlgragzuvootgbzsugraglkbgvoqvtagfuzu
wzuasfwbrkl;g‘bra,gfkzuknuz,gnuztgkpbulgpkoot;gbk,g.ugrffuvaszv.ot
wouvau gqrbmgqmvbgklugra,gvl gbkgpvoogrlbkgvlgrl raizuubgauop-oknu,gragrl
ftgkwrlrklgbmugas.abvliugkpgbmragnriujggBmugfkabgaknuzurxlgzufu tgbkgiszu
rb,gragbkg kgesrbugiklbzvztgbkgqmvbgbmuaugwukwoug rzuibgqmk,grl
pkz.r  rlxgfulgbkgawuvcgkpgbmufauonua,giklauesulbot,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,
rlbuz ribgbmrlcrlxgkpgbmufauonuagbkkjggWzr ug quooagrlgbmugbmksxmb;gbmu
bklxsugivlgmvnug.sbgvgnuztgorbbougamvzugrlgrbj

Bmutgpvlitgbmvbgbkgbmrlcgkpgklu’agauopgragbkg.ug uorxmbu gqrbmgklu’a
auop;gbkgpzuesulbgvl giklnuzaugqrbmgklu’agauop,gbkg.ugknuzrl soxulb;g.sb
bmraguhiuaagawzrlxagklotgrlgbmkaugqmkgbvcug.sbgvgaswuzprirvognruqgkp
bmufauonua,gvl g u rivbugbmurzgfvrlgrlawuibrklgbkgbmurzgvppvrza;gqmkgivoo
rbgfuzugzunuzrugvl gr ouluaagbkgkiiswtgklu’agauopgqrbmgklu’agauop,gvl 
bmug.sro rlxgklu’agauopgswgvgfuzug.sro rlxgkpgivabouagrlgbmugvrz;gqmk
okkcgswklgbmufauonuagvagvgbmrz gwuzaklgklot,gvgabzvlxuzjggRpgvltgklug.u
rlgzvwbszugqrbmgmragkqlgclkqou xu,gokkcrlxgklotgklgbmkaug.uokqgmrf,goub
mrfg.sbgbszlgmragutugswqvz gbkqvz agwvabgvxua,gvl gmragwzr ugqroog.u
v.vbu ,gqmulgmugamvoogbmuzugprl gakgfvltgbmksavl gqrbagbmvbgbzvfwougmrf
sl uzgpkkbjggRpgmugulbuzgrlbkgvgpovbbuzrlxgwzuasfwbrklgkpgmragwuzaklvo
nvoksz,goubgmrfg.sbgzuikoouibgbmugornuagkpgAirwrk,gUwvfrlkl va;gakgfvlt
vzfrua,gakgfvltglvbrkla,gbmvbgouvnugmrfgakgpvzg.umrl gbmufjggLk
wvzbrisovzgesvorbtgivlgfvcugvltgfvlgwzks ,gbmvbgqroogvbgbmugavfugbrfugwsb
bmugfvltgkbmuzgquvcgvl grfwuzpuibgkluagmugmvagrlgbmugkbmuzgaivou,gvl gbmu
lkbmrlxluaagkpgmsfvlgikl rbrklgbkgfvcugswgbmugqurxmbjgg.uivsaugAkizvbua
mv gvoklug rxuabu gbkgwszwkaugbmugwzuiuwbgkpgmragxk ,g“bkgclkqgmrfauop,”
gvl g.tgbmvbgabs tgvzzrnu gvbgbmugwuzpuibrklgkpgaubbrlxgmrfauopgvbglksxmb,
mugklotgqvagzuwsbu gqkzbmtgbmugbrbougkpgvgavxujggQmkakunuzgamvoogakgclkq
mrfauop,goubgmrfg.ko otgawuvcgrbgksbj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggV  zuaauagmragnktvxugbkglkgiuzbvrl,gwkzb
gggggVoogvwwzulbriuagqmulgqugikfugbkgrbg( uvbm)
gggggVltgklugfvtg uwzrnugsagkpgorpu;glkgklugivlg uwzrnugsagkpg uvbm
ggggg.sarluaagbk-fkzzkq
gggggIkl uflrlxgqrlu,g.uivsaugakfugwukwougqroog.ug zslc
gggggIklairuliugfvcuagsag.ubzvt,gviisau,gvl gprxmbgvxvrlabgkszauonua
gggggIszrkarbtgvl gkpgbmvbguvxuzgwvaarklgpkzgluqa
ggggg uornuzu grlbkgkszgkqlgisabk tgbmugcutagkpgorpu
ggggg zslculuaagvgbzsugvl giuzbvrlgbzrvogkpgunuztgklu’aglvbszu
gggggRgivlgfkzugmvz otg.uorunugvgfvl’agiklabvlitgbmvlgvltgnrzbsu
ggggg“Rgqramgtksgxkk gmuvobmj”gg“Lkgmuvobmgbkgbmuu,”gzuworu gbmugkbmuz
gggggRpgbkgwmrokakwmraug.u,gvag‘brag uprlu ,gbkg ks.b
gggggRfwzkwuzotgqugivoogbmragnkoslbvztg raakosbrkl,g uawvrz
gggggRb’agfv luaagbkglkszramgrlprzfrbt
gggggOubgmrfg.ugvagqraugvagmugqroo,gvpbuzgvoogmugrag.sbgvgfvl
gggggOrnrlxgragaovnuztgrpgbmugor.uzbtgkpg trlxg.ugqvlbrlxj
gggggOkkcgswklgbmufauonuagvagvgbmrz gwuzaklgklot,gvgabzvlxuz
gggggOkquzgmrfauopgbkgbmugfuvlluaagkpg upul rlxgmragrllkiuliu
gggggFsimg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgsagvl gkszauonua
gggggLkgvoikmkogbmuglrxmbgklgqmrimgvgfvlgrlbul agbkgxubgimro zul
gggggLkguhiuooulbgaksograguhufwbgpzkfgvgfrhbszugkpgfv luaa
gggggLkbgiklios ugbkkgfsimgswklgtkszgfrabzuaa’agrlnrkov.ougimvabrbt
gggggKlug kkzgrlbkgorpu,g.sbgvgmsl zu gbmksavl gqvtagksb
gggggKz rlvztgfubmk gkpgiszugragivzzru gklgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgorpu
gggggWovbkgpkz.r agimro zulgqrlugbroogurxmbuulgtuvzagkpgvxu
gggggAmvfugpkzgfugbkgauznu,g.urlxgakgluvzgbmugzuvimgkpgor.uzbt
gggggAwuvcgouaagkpgklu’agauopgbmvlgqmvbgklugzuvootgragragpkoot
gggggBvsxmbgbkgiklar uzgaouuwgvagvgzuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm
gggggBmugvibrklgragikfful v.ou,glkbgbmugfvl
gggggBmugfkabgnkoslbvztg uvbmgragbmugprluab
gggggBmugnriugkwwkarbugbkgiszrkarbtgragluxorxuliu
gggggBmrlxagauufgxzuvbuzg.tgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvlgbmutgvzugrlguppuib
gggggBmtgkqlgikqvz riugragbmugivsau,grpgbmksgornuabgrlgwvrl
gggggBragunrogikslauogbmvbgqroogv frbglkgimvlxu
gggggBkzbszu:gzvbmuzgvgbzrvogkpgwvbruliugbmvlgkpgbzsbm
gggggQug kglkbgxk,gqugvzug zrnul
gggggQmvbgivlgbmutgasppuzgqmkg kglkbgpuvzgbkg ru?
gggggQmkunuzguhwuibagwslramfulbgvozuv tgasppuzagrb
gggggQraugfvlgornuagvagoklxgvagmugksxmb,glkbgakgoklxgvagmugivl






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877



IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg10j

NRRjggggggKpgzuikfwulauagkpgmklkszj
NRRRjgggggKpgbmugvppuibrklgkpgpvbmuzagbkgbmurzgimro zulj
RHjgggggggKpgbmugvzfagkpgbmugWvzbmrvlaj
HjggggggggKpg.kkcaj
HRjgggggggKpgizsuobtj
HRRjggggggVwkokxtgpkzgZvrfkl gAu.kl j



IMVWBUZgNRR

KPgZUIKFWULAUAgKPgMKLKSZ

BmutgqmkgqzrbugbmugorpugkpgVsxsabsagIvuavz,--[Asubklrsa,gOrpugkp
Vsxsabsa,gijgg25j]--k.auznugbmragrlgmragfrorbvztg rairworlu,gbmvbgmugqva
qkl uzpsootgor.uzvogkpgxrpbagbkgfulgkpgfuzrb,g.sbgbmvbgvagbkgbmugbzsu
zuikfwulauagkpgmklkszgmugqvagvagawvzrlx;gtubgmugmrfauopgmv g.uul
xzvbrpru g.tgmragsliougqrbmgvoogbmugfrorbvztgzuikfwulauag.upkzugmugmv 
unuzg.uulgrlgbmugpruo jggRbgqvagvgwzubbtgrlnulbrkl,gvl gzuiurnu grlbk
fkabgxknuzlfulbagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbkgrlabrbsbugiuzbvrlgnvrlgvl grl
bmufauonuagnvosuouaag rabrlibrklagbkgmklkszgvl gzuikfwulaugnrzbsu,gasim
vagbmugizkqlagkpgovszuo,gkvc,gvl gftzbou,gbmugwvzbrisovzgpvamrklgkpgakfu
xvzfulb,gbmugwzrnrouxugbkgzr ugrlgvgikvimgrlgbmugirbt,gkzgvbglrxmbgqrbmgv
bkzim,gakfugwuisorvzgwoviugvaarxlu grlgws.origvaauf.orua,gbmugwzuzkxvbrnu
kpgiuzbvrlgv  rbrklvoglvfuagvl gbrboua,giuzbvrlg rabrlibrklagrlgbmu
.uvzrlxgkpgikvbagkpgvzfa,gvl gbmugorcu,gbmugsaugkpgqmrim,gviikz rlxgbk
bmugaunuzvogmsfkszagkpglvbrkla,gmvag.uulgnvzrksaotgzuiurnu ,gvl gtub
iklbrlsuaj

QugrlgPzvliu,gvagvoakgaunuzvogkpgkszglurxm.ksza,gmvnugkz uzagkp
clrxmbmkk gbmvbgvzugrlabrbsbu gklotgpkzgbmragul jggVl g‘bra,grlguvzluab,
vgnuztgxkk gvl gwzkprbv.ougisabkfgbkgprl gksbgvlgviclkqou xfulbgpkzgbmu
qkzbmgkpgzvzugvl guhiuooulbgful,gvl gbkgavbraptgbmufgqrbmgzuqvz agbmvb
vzuglkbgvbgvoogimvzxuv.ougurbmuzgbkgwzrliugkzgwukwoujggVl gbmvbgqmrimgmva
voqvtag.uulgpksl g.tgvlirulbguhwuzruliu,gvl gqmrimgqugmvnugmuzubkpkzu
k.auznu gvfklxgkszauonua,gbmvbgfulgkpgesvorbtgmvnugunuzg.uulgfkzugyuvoksa
kpgasimgzuikfwulauagbmvlgkpgbmkaugqmuzurlgbmuzugqvagxvrlgvl gwzkprb,gra
lkbgqrbmksbgnuztgxkk gxzksl gvl gzuvakljggRpgqrbmgbmugzuqvz ,gqmrimgksxmb
bkg.ugarfwotgvgzuikfwulaugkpgmklksz,gbmutgamkso gfrhgkbmuzgikffk rbrua
vl gv  gzrimua,gbmragfrhbszu,grlabuv gkpgwzkiszrlxgvlgrlizuvaugkp
uabrfvbrkl,gqkso g u.vaugvl gv.vbugrbjggBmugKz uzgkpgAbjgFrimvuo,gqmrim
mvag.uulgakgoklxgrlgzuwsbugvfklxabgsa,gmv glkgxzuvbuzgikffk rbtgbmvlgbmvb
rbgmv glkgikffslrivbrklgqrbmgvltgkbmuzgikffk rbt,gqmrimgwzk siu gbmra
uppuib,gbmvbgpkzfuzotgbmuzugqvaglkgkppriugkzgbrbougqmvbunuzgbkgqmrimgbmu
xulbztgwzubul u gqrbmgakgxzuvbg uarzugvl gvppuibrklgvagbmutg r gbkgbmvb;
lkgesvorbtgbmvbgivzzru gqrbmgrbgfkzugzuawuibgvl gxzvl usz,gnvokszgvl 
qkzbmgfkzugqroorlxotguf.zvirlxgvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgvf.rbrklgvawrzrlxgbkgv
zuikfwulaugwszuotgrbagkql,gvl gzvbmuzgxokzrksagbmvlgwzkprbv.oujggPkz,grl
bzsbm,gkbmuzgxrpbagmvnuglkbgakgxzuvbgvg rxlrbtgkpgsavxu,g.tgzuvaklgbmut
vzugovr gksbgswklgvoogakzbagkpgkiivarkla;gqrbmgfklutgvgfvlgwvtagbmugqvxua
kpgvgauznvlb,gbmug rorxuliugkpgvgikszruz,g vlirlx,gnvsobrlx,gawuvcrlx,
vl gbmugfuvluabgkppriuagqugzuiurnu;glvt,gvl gzuqvz gnriugqrbmgrbgbkk,gva
povbbuzt,gbzuvimuzt,gvl gwrfwrlx;gvl gbmuzupkzug‘braglkgqkl uzgrpgnrzbsu
ouaag uarzuagvl gouaagqroorlxotgzuiurnuagbmragikffklgakzbgkpgwvtfulb,
bmvlgbmvbgqmrimgragwzkwuzgvl gwuisorvzgbkgmuz,gbmzksxmksbgxuluzksagvl 
lk.oujggVsxsabsagmv gzuvaklgbkg.ugfkzugawvzrlxgkpgbmragbmvlgbmugkbmuz,
rlakfsimgbmvbgmklkszgragvgwzrnrouxugqmrimg uzrnuagrbagwzrlirwvoguaauliu
pzkfgzvzrbt;gvl gakgnrzbsugrbauop:

gggggggggg“Isrgfvosaguabglufk,gesrag.klsaguaaugwkbuab?”

ggggg[“Bkgqmkfglkgklugragroogqmkgivlg.ugxkk ?”-Fvzbrvo,ghrrjg82j]

Qug kglkbgrlbul grbgpkzgvgikfful vbrklgqmulgqugavtgbmvbgasimgvgklugra
ivzupsogrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgmragimro zul,g.tgzuvaklgrbgragvgikffklgvib,
mkqgysabgvl gquoog klugakunuz;glkgfkzugbmvlgqugikfful gvgxzuvbgbzuu,
qmuzugbmugqmkougpkzuabgragbmugavfujggRg kglkbgbmrlcgbmvbgvltgirbrdulgkp
Awvzbvgxokzrpru gmrfauopgfsimgswklgmragnvoksz,grbg.urlxgbmugslrnuzavo
nrzbsugkpgbmugqmkouglvbrkl;gvl gvagorbbougswklgmragpr uorbtgvl giklbufwb
kpgzrimuajggBmuzugraglkgzuikfwulaug.uikfuagnrzbsu,gmkqgxzuvbgakunuz,gbmvb
ragkliugwvaau grlbkgvgisabkf;gvl gRgclkqglkbgqrbmvogqmubmuzgqugivlgunuz
ivoogrbgxzuvb,g.urlxgikffklj

Auurlx,gbmul,gbmvbgbmuaugzufsluzvbrklagkpgmklkszgmvnuglkgkbmuzgnvosugvl 
uabrfvbrklg.sbgklotgbmra,gbmvbgpuqgwukwougulyktgbmuf,g‘brag.sbgbkg.u
or.uzvogkpgbmufgbkg.zrlxgbmufg kqlgbkglkbmrlxjggVl gbmksxmgbmuzugamkso 
.uglkqgfkzugfulgpksl gbmvlgrlgpkzfuzgbrfuagqkzbmtgkpgkszgkz uz,gbmu
uabrfvbrklgkpgrbglunuzbmuouaagamkso glkbg.ugv.vbu ,glkzgbmugmklkszgfv u
imuvw;gvl grbgfvtguvarotgmvwwulgbmvbgfkzugfvtgfuzrbgrb;gpkzgbmuzugraglk
nrzbsugbmvbgakguvarotgawzuv agvagbmvbgkpgfrorbvztgnvokszjggBmuzugra
vlkbmuzgnrzbsu,gbzsu,gwuzpuib,gvl gwmrokakwmrivo,gkpgqmrimgRg kglkb
awuvc,gvl gklotgfvcugsaugkpgbmugqkz grlgkszgikffklgviiuwbvbrkl,gfsim
xzuvbuzgbmvlgbmragvl gfkzugpsoo,gqmrimgragvgpkziugvl gvaaszvliugkpgbmu
akso,guesvootg uawrarlxgvoogakzbagkpgv nuzaugviir ulba,guesv.ou,gslrpkzf,
vl giklabvlb,gkpgqmrimgkszagraglkgfkzugbmvlgklugorbbougzvtjggSau,
u sivbrkl,guhvfwou,gvl gisabkfgivlg kgvoogrlgvoogbkgbmuguabv.oramfulbgkp
bmvbgqmuzukpgRgvfgawuvcrlx,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbgpvirorbtgzul uzgrbgikffkl,gva
.tgbmuguhwuzruliugkpgkszgirnrogqvzagragfvlrpuabgulksxm;gvl gqmkunuzgikso 
vbgbmragbrfugslrbugsagvoo,gIvbmkorigvl gMsxsulkb,grlbkgklug.k t,gvl gaub
sagswklgakfug.zvnugikffklgulbuzwzrau,gqugamkso gvxvrlgfvcugkszgvlirulb
frorbvztgzuwsbvbrklgpokszramjggRbgragfkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgrlgbrfuagwvabgbmu
zuikfwulaugkpgbmragkz uzgmv glkbgklotgvgzuxvz gbkgnvoksz,g.sbgmv gv
pszbmuzgwzkawuib;grbglunuzgqvagbmugzuqvz gkpgvgnvorvlbgako ruzg.sbgkpgv
xzuvbgivwbvrl;gbmugairuliugkpgk.utrlxgqvaglkbgzuwsbu gqkzbmtgkpgak
mklkszv.ougvgxsuz kljggBmuzugqvagbmuzurlgvgfkzugslrnuzavogfrorbvzt
uhwuzbluaagzuesrzu ,gvl gbmvbgikfwzumul u gbmugfkabgvl gbmugxzuvbuab
esvorbruagkpgvgfrorbvztgfvl:

gggggggggg“Luesugulrfguvu ufgfrorbvzuagubgrfwuzvbkzrhgvzbuagaslb,”

ggggg[“Pkzgbmugvzbagkpgako ruztgvl gxuluzvoamrwgvzuglkbgbmugavfuj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghhnjg19j]

vagvoak,g.uar ua,gvgikl rbrklgasrbv.ougbkgasimgvg rxlrbtjgg.sb,gRgavt,
bmksxmgfkzugfulgquzugqkzbmtgbmvlgpkzfuzot,gtubgksxmbgrbglkbgbkg.ugfkzu
or.uzvootg rabzr.sbu ,gvl grbgquzug.ubbuzgbkgpvoogamkzbgrlglkbgxrnrlxgrb
vbgvoogbkgqmkfgrbgamkso g.ug su,gbmvlgpkzgunuzgbkgokau,gvagqugmvnugovbuot
 klu,gbmugpzsrbgkpgakgwzkprbv.ougvlgrlnulbrkljggLkgfvlgkpgawrzrbgqroo
 urxlgbkgv nvlbvxugmrfauopgqrbmgqmvbgragrlgikffklgqrbmgfvlt;gvl gasimgkp
bmugwzuaulbgbrfugvagmvnugouvabgfuzrbu gbmragzuikfwulaugbmufauonuagfvcu
bmugxzuvbuzgamkqgkpg ra vrlrlxgrb,grlgkz uzgbmuzu.tgbkg.ugzvlcu gqrbm
bmkaugbkgqmkfgakgfsimgqzklxgmvag.uulg klug.tgbmugslqkzbmtgiklpuzzrlxgvl 
 u.varlxgbmug rabrlibrklgqmrimgqvagbmurzgwvzbrisovzgzrxmbj

Lkq,gbkguhwuibgbmvbgrlgk.orbuzvbrlxgvl gv.koramrlxgbmra,gas  ulotgbk
izuvbugvl g.zrlxgrlbkgizu rbgvgorcugrlabrbsbrkl,graglkbgvgwzkwuzgvbbufwb
pkzgakgoriulbrksagvl gakgaricgvgbrfugvagbmragqmuzurlgquglkqgvzu;gvl grb
qroogpvoogksbgbmvbgbmugovabgqroogpzkfgrbag.rzbmgrliszgbmugavfu
rliklnulruliuagbmvbgmvnugzsrlu gbmugkbmuzj--[Fklbvrxlugzupuzagbkgbmu
Kz uzgkpgbmugAvrlb-Uawzrb,grlabrbsbu g.tgMulztgRRRjggrlg1578j]--Bmu
zsouagpkzg rawularlxgbmragluqgkz uzgmv gluu gbkg.uguhbzufuotgiorwbgvl 
.ksl gsl uzgxzuvbgzuabzribrkla,gbkgxrnugrbgvsbmkzrbt;gvl gbmragbsfsobsksa
auvaklgragrlivwv.ougkpgasimgvgisz.:g.uar uagbmvb,g.upkzugbmragivlg.u
.zksxmbgrlbkgzuwsbu,g‘bragluiuaavztgbmvbgbmugfufkztgkpgbmugprzab,gvl gkp
bmugiklbufwbgrlbkgqmrimgrbgragpvooul,g.ug.szru grlgk.ornrklj

Bmragwoviugfrxmbglvbszvootgulksxmgv frbgkpgakfug raikszaugswklgbmu
iklar uzvbrklgkpgnvoksz,gvl gbmug rppuzuliugkpgbmragnrzbsugpzkfgkbmuza;
.sb,gWosbvzimgmvnrlxgakgkpbulgmvl ou gbmragas.yuib,gRgamkso gxrnugftauop
vlgslluiuaavztgbzks.ougbkgzuwuvbgqmvbgmugmvagavr jgg.sbgbmragragqkzbm
iklar uzrlx:gbmvbgkszglvbrklgwoviuagnvoksz,gnvroovliu,grlgbmugmrxmuab
 uxzuugkpgnrzbsu,gvagrbagnuztgqkz gunr uliua,g.urlxg uzrnu gpzkfgnvousz,
vl gbmvb,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgsau,gqmulgqugavtgvgfvlgkpgmrxmgqkzbmgvgxkk 
fvl,grlgkszgikszbgabtou--‘bragbkgavtgvgnvorvlbgfvl,gvpbuzgbmugZkfvlgqvt;
pkzgbmugxuluzvogvwwuoovbrklgkpgnrzbsugqrbmgbmufgbvcuagubtfkokxtgpzkfgnra,
pkziujggBmugwzkwuz,gakou,gvl guaaulbrvogwzkpuaarklgkp,gbmugPzulim
lk.ouaaugragbmvbgkpgvzfa:gvl g‘bragorcuotgbmvbgbmugprzabgnrzbsugbmvb
 raiknuzu grbauopgvfklxabgfulgvl gmvagxrnulgbkgakfugv nvlbvxugknuz
kbmuza,gqvagbmvbg.tgqmrimgbmugabzklxuabgvl gfkabgnvorvlbgmvnugfvabuzu 
bmugquvcuz,gvl gviesrzu gvgwvzbrisovzgvsbmkzrbtgvl gzuwsbvbrkl,gqmuliu
ivfugbkgrbgbmvbg rxlrpru gvwwuoovbrkl;gkzguoau,gbmvbgbmuauglvbrkla,g.urlx
nuztgqvzorcu,gxvnugbmugwzu-ufrluliugbkgbmvbgkpgbmugnrzbsuagqmrimgqvagfkab
pvfrorvzgbkgbmuf;gysabgvagkszgwvaarklgvl gbmugpunuzramgakorirbs ugqugmvnu
kpgbmugimvabrbtgkpgqkfulgkiivarklagbmvbgbkgavt,gvgxkk gqkfvl,gvgqkfvlgkp
qkzbm,gvgqkfvlgkpgmklkszgvl gnrzbsu,garxlrpruagfuzuotgvgimvabugqkfvlgva
rp,gbkgk.orxugbmufgbkgbmvbgklug sbt,gqugquzugrl rppuzulbgvagbkgvoogbmu
zuab,gvl gxvnugbmufgbmugzurlagrlgvoogkbmuzgpvsobagqmvbunuzgbkgikfwksl 
pkzgbmvbgklugkpgrliklbrluliuj




IMVWBUZgNRRR

KPgBMUgVPPUIBRKLgKPgPVBMUZAgBKgBMURZgIMRO ZUL

BkgFv vfug ’Uabraavij

FV VF,grpgbmugabzvlxuluaagvl glknuobtgkpgftgas.yuib,gqmrimgvzugqklbgbk
xrnugnvosugbkgbmrlxa,g kglkbgavnugfu,gRgamvooglunuzgikfugkppgqrbmgmklksz
pzkfgbmragpkkoramgvbbufwb:g.sbg‘bragakgpvlbvabri,gvl givzzruagvgpviugak
slorcugbmugikffklgsau,gbmvbgbmra,gwuzv nulbszu,gfvtgfvcugrbgwvaajgg‘Bragv
fuovlimkorigmsfksz,gvl giklauesulbotgvgmsfkszgnuztgfsimgvlguluftgbkgft
lvbszvogikfwouhrkl,gulxul uzu g.tgbmugwularnuluaagkpgbmugakorbs ugrlbk
qmrimgpkzgakfugtuvzagwvabgRgmvnugzubrzu gftauop,gbmvbgprzabgwsbgrlbk
ftgmuv gbmragr ougpvlitgkpgqzrbrlxjggQmuzurl,gprl rlxgftauopgbkbvoot
slwzknr u gvl gufwbtgkpgkbmuzgfvbbuz,gRgwzuaulbu gftauopgbkgftauopgpkz
vzxsfulbgvl gas.yuibjgg‘Bragbmugklotg.kkcgrlgbmugqkzo gkpgrbagcrl ,gvl 
kpgvgqro gvl guhbzvnvxvlbg uarxljggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgqkzbmgzufvzcgrlgbmra
vppvrzg.sbgbmvbguhbzvnvxvlit:gpkzgrlgvgas.yuibgakgnvrlgvl gpzrnkoksa,gbmu
.uabgqkzcfvlgrlgbmugqkzo gikso glkbgmvnugxrnulgrbgvgpkzfgprbgbkgzuikfful 
rbgbkgvltgfvlluzgkpguabuufj

Lkq,gfv vf,gmvnrlxgbkg zvqgftgkqlgwribszugbkgbmugorpu,gRgmv gkfrbbu gklu
rfwkzbvlbgpuvbszu,gmv gRglkbgbmuzurlgzuwzuaulbu gbmugmklkszgRgmvnugunuz
mv gpkzgtksgvl gtkszgfuzrba;gqmrimgRgmvnugwszwkauotgimkaulgbkgavtgrlgbmu
.uxrllrlxgkpgbmragimvwbuz,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgvfklxabgbmugfvltgkbmuz
uhiuooulbgesvorbruagtksgvzugfrabzuaagkp,gbmvbgkpgbmugbul uzgoknugtksgmvnu
fvlrpuabu gbkgtkszgimro zul,gragauvbu grlgklugkpgbmugmrxmuabgwoviuaj
QmkunuzgclkqagvbgqmvbgvxugFklaruszg ’Uabraavi,gtkszgmsa.vl ,goupbgtksgv
qr kq,gbmugxzuvbgvl gmklkszv.ougfvbimuagbmvbgmvnugarliug.uulgkppuzu gbk
tks,gvagfvltgvagbkgvltgov tgkpgtkszgikl rbrklgrlgPzvliu,gbmugiklabvlit
vl gabuv rluaagqmuzuqrbm,gpkzgakgfvltgtuvza,gtksgmvnugasabvrlu gakgfvlt
amvzwg rpprisobrua,gbmug.sz ulgvl gikl sibgkpgvppvrza,gqmrimgmvnu
wuzauisbu gtksgrlgunuztgikzluzgkpgbmugcrlx kf,gvl gvzuglkbgtubgquvztgkp
bkzfulbrlxgtks,gvl gbmugmvwwtg rzuibrklgtksgmvnugxrnulgbkgvoogbmuau,g.t
tkszgakougwzs uliugkzgxkk gpkzbslu,gqrooguvarotgiklios ugqrbmgfugbmvbgqu
mvnuglkbgakgnrnr gvlguhvfwougvagtkszagkpgfvbuzlvogvppuibrklgrlgkszgbrfuaj
RgwzvraugXk ,gfv vf,gbmvbgrbgmvag.uulgakgquoogufwoktu ;gpkzgbmugxzuvb
mkwuagFklaruszg ’Uabraavi,gtkszgakl,gxrnuagkpgmrfauop,gzul uzgaspprirulb
vaaszvliugbmvbgqmulgmugikfuagkpgvxugtksgqroogzuvwgpzkfgmrfgvoogbmu
k.u ruliugvl gxzvbrbs ugkpgvgnuztgxkk gfvljgg.sb,gpkzvafsimgvag.tgzuvakl
kpgmragbul uzgtuvza,gmugmvaglkbg.uulgivwv.ougkpgbvcrlxglkbriugkpgbmkau
kppriuagkpguhbzufuabgnvosugmugmvagrlgakgxzuvbglsf.uzgzuiurnu gpzkfgtks,
Rgqroo,grpgbmuaugwvwuzagamvoogklug vtgmvwwulgbkgpvoogrlbkgmragmvl a,gqmul
Rgamvooglurbmuzgmvnugfksbmglkzgawuuimgoupbgbkg uornuzgrbgbkgmrf,gbmvbgmu
amvoogzuiurnugpzkfgfugvgbzsugviikslbgkpgbmkaugbmrlxa,gqmrimgamvoog.ugfkzu
uppuibsvootgfvlrpuabu gbkgmrfg.tgbmurzgkqlguppuiba,g.tgqmrimgmugqroo
sl uzabvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbgvgxulboufvlgrlgPzvliugqmkgabvl agfkzu
rl u.bu gbkgvgfkbmuz’agivzu;gvl gbmvbgmugivllkb,grlgbmugpsbszu,gxrnugv
.ubbuzglkzgfkzugiuzbvrlgbuabrfkltgkpgmragkqlgqkzbmgvl gnrzbsugbmvlg.t
viclkqou xrlxgtksgpkzgbmvbguhiuooulbgfkbmuzgtksgvzuj

Rpgbmuzug.ugvltgovqgbzsotglvbszvo,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gvltgrlabrlibgbmvbgra
auulgslrnuzavootgvl gwuzwubsvootgrfwzrlbu grlg.kbmg.uvabagvl gfulg(qmrim
raglkbgqrbmksbgiklbzknuzat),gRgivlgavt,gbmvbgrlgftgkwrlrkl,gluhbgbkgbmu
ivzugunuztgvlrfvogmvagkpgrbagkqlgwzuauznvbrkl,gvl gbkgvnkr gbmvbgqmrim
fvtgmszbgmrf,gbmugvppuibrklgbmvbgbmug.uxubbuzg.uvzagbkgmragkppawzrlx
mko agbmugauikl gwoviugrlgbmragzvlcjggVl gauurlxgbmvbglvbszugvwwuvzagbk
mvnugzuikfful u grbgbkgsa,gmvnrlxgzuxvz gbkgbmuguhbularklgvl gwzkxzuaarkl
kpgbmugasiiuaarnugwruiuagkpgbmragfvimrlugkpgmuza,g‘braglkgqkl uzgrp,gkl
bmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgkpgimro zulgbkqvz agbmurzgwvzulbagraglkbgakgxzuvbj
Bkgqmrimgqugfvtgv  gbmragkbmuzgVzrabkbuorvlgiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgmugqmk
iklpuzagvg.uluprbgklgvltgklu,goknuagmrfg.ubbuzgbmvlgmugrag.uoknu g.tgmrf
vxvrl:gbmvbgmugbkgqmkfgragkqrlx,goknuag.ubbuzgbmvlgmugqmkgkqua;gvl gbmvb
unuztgvzbrpriuzgragpkl uzgkpgmragqkzc,gbmvl,grpgbmvbgqkzcgmv gaulau,grb
qkso g.ugkpgmrf;g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgrbgrag uvzgbkgsagbkg.u,gvl gbkg.u
iklarabagrlgfknufulbgvl gvibrkl;gbmuzupkzugunuztgklugmvagrlgakfugakzbgv
.urlxgrlgmragqkzcjggMugqmkgiklpuzagvg.uluprbguhuzirauagvgprlugvl gmkluab
vibrkl;gmugqmkgzuiurnuagrbguhuzirauagbmugsaupsogklotjggLkqgbmugsaupsogra
fsimgouaagoknv.ougbmvlgbmugmkluab;gbmugmkluabgragabv.ougvl gwuzfvlulb,
aswwotrlxgmrfgqmkgmvag klugrbgqrbmgvgiklbrlsvogxzvbrprivbrkljggBmugsaupso
okauagrbauop,guvarotgaor uagvqvt,gvl gbmugfufkztgkpgrbgraglurbmuzgak
pzuamglkzgakgwouvarlxjggBmkaugbmrlxagvzug uvzuabgbkgsagbmvbgmvnugikabgsa
fkab,gvl gxrnrlxgragfkzugimvzxuv.ougbmvlgzuiurnrlxj

Arliugrbgmvagwouvau gXk gbkgul sugsagqrbmgakfugivwvirbtgkpgzuvakl,gbkgbmu
ul gqugfvtglkb,gorcug.zsbua,g.ugauznrouotgas.yuibgvl gulaovnu gbkgbmu
ovqagikffklgbkg.kbm,g.sbgbmvbgqugamkso g.tgys xfulbgvl gvgnkoslbvzt
or.uzbtgvwwotgkszauonuagbkgbmuf,gqugksxmb,grl uu ,gakfubmrlxgbkgtruo gbk
bmugarfwougvsbmkzrbtgkpglvbszu,g.sbglkbgasppuzgkszauonuagbkg.u
btzvllrivootgmszzru gvqvtgvl gbzvlawkzbu g.tgmuz;gzuvaklgvoklugamkso 
mvnugbmugikl sibgkpgkszgrliorlvbrklajggR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gmvnugvgabzvlxu
 raxsabgpkzgbmkaugwzkwularklagbmvbgvzugabvzbu grlgsagqrbmksbgbmu
fu rvbrklgvl g rzuibrklgkpgbmugys xfulb,gva,gswklgbmugas.yuibgRgvf
awuvcrlxgkp,gRgivllkbgulbuzbvrlgbmvbgwvaarklgkpg vl orlxgvl givzuaarlx
rlpvlbagaivziuotg.kzl,gmvnrlxgvagtubglurbmuzgfkbrklgkpgaksoglkzgamvwugkp
.k tg rabrlxsramv.ou,g.tgqmrimgbmutgivlgzul uzgbmufauonuagvfrv.ou,gvl 
mvnuglkbgqroorlxotgasppuzu gbmufgbkg.uglszau gluvzgfujggVgbzsugvl 
zuxsovzgvppuibrklgksxmbgbkgawzrlxgvl grlizuvaugqrbmgbmugclkqou xugbmut
xrnugsagkpgbmufauonua,gvl gbmul,grpgbmutgvzugqkzbmtgkpgrb,gbmuglvbszvo
wzkwularklgqvocrlxgmvl grlgmvl gqrbmgzuvakl,gbkgimuzramgbmufgqrbmgvgbzsot
wvbuzlvogoknu;gvl gakgbkgys xu,gvoak,grpgbmutg.ugkbmuzqrau,gabroo
zul uzrlxgkszauonuagbkgzuvakl,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmugrliorlvbrklgkpglvbszuj
‘Bragkpb-brfuagesrbugkbmuzqrau;gvl ,gfkabgikffklot,gqugprl gkszauonua
fkzugbvculgqrbmgbmugzsllrlxgswgvl g kql,gbmugxvfua,gvl gwsuzrou
arfworirbruagkpgkszgimro zul,gbmvlgqug k,gvpbuzqvz a,gqrbmgbmurzgfkab
ikfwoubugvibrkla;gvagrpgqugmv goknu gbmufgpkzgkszgawkzb,gorcugfklcuta,
vl glkbgvagful;gvl gakfugbmuzugvzu,gqmkgvzugnuztgor.uzvogrlg.strlxgbmuf
.vooagbkgwovtgqrbmvo,gqmkgvzugnuztgiokau-mvl u gpkzgbmugouvabgluiuaavzt
uhwulaugqmulgbmutgikfugbkgvxujggLvt,grbgokkcagvagrpgbmugyuvoksatgkp
auurlxgbmufgvwwuvzgrlgvl gulyktgbmugqkzo gqmulgqugvzugv.ksbgbkgouvnugrb,
zul uzu gsagfkzuglrxxvz otgvl gabrlxtgbkqvz agbmuf;grbgnuhuagsagbmvbgbmut
bzuv gswklgkszgmuuoa,gvagrpgbkgakorirbgsagbkgxkgksb;grpgbmragquzugbkg.u
puvzu ,garliugbmugkz uzgkpgbmrlxagqroogmvnugrbgakgbmvbgbmutgivllkb,gbk
awuvcgbmugbzsbm,g.uglkzgornu,g.sbgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgkszg.urlxgvl gorpu,
qugamkso glunuzgfu  ougqrbmg.urlxgpvbmuzagvbgvooj

Pkzgftgwvzb,gRgbmrlcgrbgizsuobtgvl grlysabriuglkbgbkgzuiurnugbmufgrlbk
bmugamvzugvl gakirubtgkpgkszgxkk a,gvl glkbgbkgfvcugbmufgwvzbvcuzagrlgbmu
rlbuoorxuliugkpgkszg kfuabrigvppvrzagqmulgbmutgvzugivwv.ou,gvl glkbgbk
ouaaulgvl giklbzvibgkszgkqlguhwulauagbkgfvcugbmugfkzugzkkfgpkzgbmurza,
auurlxgqug.uxubgbmufgbkgbmvbguppuibjgg‘Bragslysabgbmvbgvlgko gpuookq,
.zkculgvl gmvopg uv ,gamkso gvoklu,grlgvgikzluzgkpgbmugimrflut,gulyktgbmu
fklutgbmvbgqkso gasppriugpkzgbmugfvrlbulvliugvl gv nvliufulbgkpgfvlt
imro zul,gvl gasppuzgbmuf,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbkgokaugbmurz’g.uabgtuvzagpkz
qvlbgkpgfuvlagbkgv nvliugbmufauonuagrlgbmugws.origauznriugvl gbmu
clkqou xugkpgfuljggVgfvlg.tgbmragikszaug zrnuagbmufgbkg uawvrz,gvl gbk
auucgksbg.tgvltgfuvla,gmkqgslysabgkzg ramklkszv.ougakunuz,gbkgwzknr ugpkz
bmurzgkqlgaswwkzb:gvagRgmvnu,grlgftgbrfu,gauulgaunuzvogtkslxgfulgkpgxkk 
uhbzvibrklgakgv  ribu gbkgabuvorlx,gbmvbglkgikzzuibrklgikso giszugbmufgkp
rbjggRgclkqgklugkpgvgnuztgxkk gpvfrot,gbkgqmkf,gvbgbmugzuesuabgkpgv
.zkbmuzgkpgmra,gvgnuztgmkluabgvl g.zvnugxulboufvl,gRgkliugawkcugklgbmra
viikslb,gqmkgfv ugvlaquz,gvl giklpuaau gbkgfugzksl ot,gbmvbgmugmv g.uul
wsbgswklgbmragwvobztgwzvibriug.tgbmugaunuzrbtgvl gvnvzriugkpgmragpvbmuz;
.sbgbmvbgmugqvaglkqgakgviisabkfu gbkgrbgmugikso glkbgouvnugrbgkppjggVl ,
vbgbmvbgnuztgbrfu,gmugqvagbzvwwu gabuvorlxgvgov t’agzrlxa,gmvnrlxgikfu
rlbkgmuzgimvf.uz,gvagamugqvag zuaarlxgqrbmgaunuzvogkbmuzajggMugwsbgfugrl
frl gkpgvgabkztgRgmv gmuvz gkpgvlkbmuzgxulboufvl,gakgwuzpuibgvl 
viikfworamu grlgbmragprlugbzv ugrlgmragtksbm,gbmvb,gvpbuzgmugivfugbkgmra
uabvbugvl gzuakonu gbkgxrnugrbgknuz,gmugikso glkbgmko gmragmvl a,
lunuzbmuouaa,grpgmugwvaau g.tgvgamkwgqmuzugmugavqgvltbmrlxgmugorcu ,gpzkf
ivbimrlxgrbgsw,gbmksxmgrbgwsbgmrfgbkgbmugamvfugkpgaul rlxgvpbuzqvz agbk
wvtgpkzgrbjggVl gRgmvnugftauopgauulgaunuzvogakgmv.rbsvbu gbkgbmragesvorbt
bmvbgunulgvfklxabgbmurzgikfzv uagbmutgikso glkbgpkz.uvzgproimrlx,gbmksxm
qrbmgrlbulbgbkgzuabkzugqmvbgbmutgmv gbvculjggRgvfgvgXvaikl,gvl gtubgbmuzu
raglkgnriugRgakgorbbougsl uzabvl gvagbmvb;gRgmvbugrbgakfubmrlxgfkzug.t
 rawkarbrklgbmvlgRgikl uflgrbg.tgzuvakl;gRg kglkbgakgfsimgvag uarzu
vltbmrlxgkpgvlkbmuzgfvl’ajggBmragwzknrliugkpgkszagra,grlgwovrlgbzsbm,gv
orbbougfkzug uizru gbmvlgbmugkbmuzgwvzbagkpgbmugcrlx kf;gvl gtubgqugmvnu
aunuzvogbrfuagauul,grlgkszgbrfua,gfulgkpgxkk gpvfroruagkpgkbmuz
wzknrliua,grlgbmugmvl agkpgysabriu,giklnribu gkpgv.kfrlv.ougbmupbajggR
puvzgbmragnriugra,grlgakfugakzb,gbkg.ugvbbzr.sbu gbkgbmugpkzu-fulbrklu 
nriugkpgbmugpvbmuzaj

Vl grpgvgfvlgamkso gbuoogfu,gvagvgokz gkpgnuztgxkk gsl uzabvl rlxgkliu
 r ,gbmvbg“mugmkvz u gswgquvobm,glkbgbkguhbzvibgvltgkbmuzgpzsrbgvl gsau
pzkfgmragwvzarfklt,g.sbgbkgfvcugmrfauopgmklkszu gvl gaksxmbgvpbuzg.tgmra
zuovbrkla;gvl gbmvbgvxugmvnrlxg uwzrnu gmrfgkpgvoogkbmuzgwkquz,grbgqva
bmugklotgzufvrlrlxgzufu tgbkgfvrlbvrlgmragvsbmkzrbtgrlgmragpvfrot,gvl gbk
cuuwgmrfgpzkfg.urlxgluxouibu gvl g uawrau g.tgvoogvzksl ,”grlgbzsbm,glkb
klotgko gvxu,g.sbgvoogkbmuzgrf.uirorbt,gviikz rlxgbkgVzrabkbou,gragbmu
wzkfkbuzgkpgvnvzriu;gbmvbgragakfubmrlx,g.sbgrbgragwmtarigpkzgvg rauvau
bmvbgvgfvlgamkso gwzunulbgbmug.rzbmgkpjggVgpvbmuzgragnuztgfrauzv.ougqmk
mvaglkgkbmuzgmko gklgmragimro zul’agvppuibrklgbmvlgbmugluu gbmutgmvnugkp
mragvaarabvliu,grpgbmvbgivlg.ugivoou gvppuibrkl;gmugfsabgzul uzgmrfauop
qkzbmtgbkg.ugzuawuibu g.tgmragnrzbsugvl gqra kf,gvl g.uoknu g.tgmra
crl luaagvl gbmugaquubluaagkpgmragfvlluza;gunulgbmugnuztgvamuagkpgvgzrim
fvbbuzgmvnugbmurzgnvosu;gvl gqugvzugqklbgbkgmvnugbmug.kluagvl gzuoriagkp
qkzbmtgfulgrlgzuxvz gvl gzunuzuliujggLkgko gvxugivlg.ugakg uizuwr grlgv
fvlgqmkgmvagwvaau gmragorpugrlgmklksz,g.sbgrbgfsabg.ugnuluzv.ou,
uawuirvootgbkgmragimro zul,gqmkaugaksogmugfsabgmvnugbzvrlu gswgbkgbmurz
 sbtg.tgzuvakl,glkbg.tgluiuaarbtgvl gbmugluu gbmutgmvnugkpgmrf,glkzg.t
mvzamluaagvl gikfwsoarkl:

ggggggggg“Ubguzzvbgoklxugfuvgesr ufgaulbulbrv
ggggggggggEsrgrfwuzrsfgizu vbguaaugxzvnrsa,gvsbgabv.rorsa,
ggggggggggNrgesk gprb,gesvfgroos ,gesk gvfrirbrvgv yslxrbszj”

ggggg[“Mugqvl uzagpvzgpzkfgbmugbzsbm,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gqmkgbmrlcagbmvb
gggggxknuzlfulbgfkzugv.akosbugvl g szv.ougqmrimgragviesrzu g.tgpkziugbmvl
gggggbmvbgqmrimgragvbbvimu gbkgpzrul amrwj”--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grjgR,g40j]

Rgikl uflgvoognrkouliugrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgvgbul uzgaksogbmvbgrag uarxlu 
pkzgmklkszgvl gor.uzbtjggBmuzugragRgclkqglkbgqmvbgkpgauznrougrlgzrxksz
vl giklabzvrlb;gvl gRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgqmvbgraglkbgbkg.ug klug.t
zuvakl,gwzs uliu,gvl gv  zuaa,graglunuzgbkg.ugvppuibu g.tgpkziujggR
ftauopgqvag.zksxmbgswgvpbuzgbmvbgfvlluz;gvl gbmutgbuoogfugbmvbgrlgvoogft
przabgvxugRglunuzgpuobgbmugzk g.sbgbqriu,gvl gbmulgnuztgaorxmbotjggR
wzvibrau gbmugavfugfubmk gqrbmgftgimro zul,gqmkgvoogkpgbmufg ru gvb
lszau,guhiuwbgOuklkzv,gftgklotg vsxmbuz,gvl gqmkgvzzrnu gbkgbmugvxugkp
prnugtuvzagvl gswqvz gqrbmksbgkbmuzgikzzuibrklgpkzgmuzgimro ramgpvsoba
(muzgfkbmuz’agrl soxuliuguvarotgikliszzrlx)gbmvlgqkz agklot,gvl gbmkau
nuztgxulbou;grlgqmrimgcrl gkpgwzkiuu rlx,gbmksxmgftgul gvl guhwuibvbrkl
amkso g.ug.kbmgpzsabzvbu ,gbmuzugvzugkbmuzgivsauagulksxmgbkgovtgbmugpvsob
klgqrbmksbg.ovfrlxgftg rairworlu,gqmrimgRgclkqgbkg.uglvbszvogvl gysab,
vl gRgamkso ,grlgbmra,gmvnugtubg.uulgfkzugzuorxrksagbkqvz agbmugfvoua,gva
ouaag.kzlgbkgas.yuibrklgvl gfkzugpzuu;gvl gRgamkso gmvnugfv ugrbgft
.sarluaagbkgproogbmurzgmuvzbagqrbmgrlxulsksaluaagvl gpzuu kfjggRgmvnu
lunuzgk.auznu gkbmuzguppuibagkpgqmrwwrlxgbmvlgbkgzul uzg.ktagfkzu
ikqvz ot,gkzgfkzugqropsootgk.abrlvbuj

 kgqug uarzugbkg.ug.uoknu gkpgkszgimro zul?ggQroogqugzufknugpzkfgbmufgvoo
kiivarklgkpgqramrlxgkszg uvbmgbmksxmglkgkiivarklgkpgakgmkzzr gvgqramgivl
urbmuzg.ugysabgkzguhisav.ou?

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lsoosfgaiuosagzvbrklufgmv.ubj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Lkgqricu luaagmvagzuvaklj”--Ornt,ghhnrrrjg28]

Oubgsagzuvaklv.otgviikffk vbugbmurzgornuagqrbmgqmvbgragrlgkszgwkquzjggRl
kz uzgbkgbmra,gqugamkso glkbgfvzztgakgtkslxgbmvbgkszgvxugamvoogrlgv
fvlluzg.ugiklpksl u gqrbmgbmurza;gpkzgbmragrliklnulruliugwoslxuagsagrlbk
fvltgnuztgxzuvbg rpprisobrua,gvl guawuirvootgbmugxulbztgkpgbmuglvbrkl,
qmkgvzugkpgvgikl rbrklgqmuzurlgbmutgmvnugorbbougbkg k,gvl gqmkgornugswkl
bmurzgzulbagklot:gpkzguoauqmuzu,gqrbmgwukwougqmkgornug.tgbmurzgov.ksz,
bmugwoszvorbtgvl gikfwvltgkpgimro zulgragvlgrlizuvaugbkgbmugikffklgabkic;
bmutgvzugakgfvltgluqgbkkoagvl grlabzsfulbagqmuzuqrbmgbkgxzkqgzrimj

Rgfvzzru gvbgbmzuu-vl -bmrzbtgtuvzagkpgvxu,gvl gikliszgrlgbmugkwrlrklgkp
bmrzbt-prnu,gqmrimgragavr gbkg.ugbmvbgkpgVzrabkboujgggWovbkgqroogmvnu
lk.k tgfvzztg.upkzugbmrzbt;g.sbgmugmvagzuvaklgbkgovsxmgvbgbmkaugqmk
sl uzbkkcgbmugqkzcgkpgfvzzrvxugvpbuzgprnu-vl -prpbt,gvl gikl uflagbmurz
kppawzrlxgvagslqkzbmtgkpgvorfulbgvl gorpujggBmvouagxvnugbmugbzsuab
orfrba,gqmk,gtkslxgvl g.urlxgrfwkzbslu g.tgmragfkbmuzgbkgfvzzt,gvlaquzu ,
“Bmvbgrbgqvagbkkgakkl,”gvl ,g.urlxgxzkqlgrlbkgtuvzagvl gszxu gvxvrl,
“Bmvbgrbgqvagbkkgovbuj”ggVgfvlgfsabg ultgkwwkzbslrbtgbkgunuztgrlkwwkzbslu
vibrkljggBmugvlirulbgXvsoa’gokkcu gswklgrbgvagvgnuztgmkzzr gbmrlxgpkzgv
fvlgbkgmvnugakirubtgqrbmgvgqkfvlg.upkzugmugqvagbqulbtgtuvzagkpgvxu,gvl 
abzribotgzuikfful u gbkgbmugfulgqmkg uarxlu gbmufauonuagpkzgqvzgbmu
cuuwrlxgbmurzgnrzxrlrbtgbroogquoogxzkqlgrlgtuvza,gpkzvafsimgvagikszvxugra
v.vbu gvl g rnuzbu g.tgrlbuzikszaugqrbmgqkful:

gggggggggggggg“Fv,gkzgiklxrslbkgvgxrknrlubbvgawkav,
gggggggggggggggUgorubkgkfvrg u’gprxor,guzvgrlnrorbk
gggggggggggggggLuxorgvppubbrg rgwv zugubg rgfvzrbkj”

ggggg[“Lkq,gfvzzru gbkgvgtkslxgqrpugvl gmvwwtgrlgimro zul,gmugqva
ggggg ufkzvorau g.tgmragoknugvagpvbmuzgvl gmsa.vl j”
gggggg--Bvaak,gXruzsaj,ghjg39j]

FsoutgMvaavf,gcrlxgkpgBslra,gmugqmkfgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNjgzuabkzu gbk
mragcrlx kf,gzuwzkvimu gbmugfufkztgkpgmragpvbmuzgFvmkfubgqrbmgbmu
pzuesulbvbrklgkpgqkful,gabtorlxgmrfgokkau,guppufrlvbu,gvl gvgxubbuzgkp
imro zulj--[Kpgqmkfgmugmv gbmrzbt-pkszj]--BmugXzuucgmrabkztgk.auznuagkp
RiisagbmugBvzulbrlu,gkpgImztak,gVabtoosa,g rkwkfwka,gvl gkbmuza,gbmvbgbk
cuuwgbmurzg.k ruagrlgkz uzgpkzgbmugKotfwrigxvfuagvl gasimgorcuguhuziraua,
bmutg ulru gbmufauonuag szrlxgbmvbgwzuwvzvbrklgvoogikffuziugqrbmgNulsaj
RlgvgiuzbvrlgikslbztgkpgbmugAwvlramgRl ruagfulgquzuglkbgwuzfrbbu gbk
fvzztgbroogvpbuzgpkzbtgvxu,gvl gtubgbmugxrzoagquzugvookqu gvbgbulj
‘Braglkbgbrfugpkzgvgxulboufvlgkpgbmrzbtgtuvzagko gbkgxrnugwoviugbkgmra
aklgqmkgragbqulbt;gmugragmrfauopgrlgvgikl rbrklgbkgauznug.kbmgrlgbmu
uhwu rbrklagkpgqvzgvl grlgbmugikszbgkpgmragwzrliu;gmvagluu gkpgvoogmra
vwwszbulvliua;gvl gtub,g ks.bouaa,gmugksxmbgbkgaszzul uzgvgamvzu,g.sbglkb
akgxzuvbgvlgklugvagbkgpkzxubgmrfauopgpkzgkbmuza;gvl gpkzgasimgvlgklugbmu
vlaquzgbmvbgpvbmuzagmvnugkz rlvzrotgrlgbmurzgfksbma,g“Rgqrooglkbgwsbgkpp
ftgiokbmua,g.upkzugRgxkgbkg.u ,”gauznuagquooj

.sbgvgpvbmuzgqkzlgksbgqrbmgvxugvl grlprzfrbrua,gvl g uwzrnu g.tgquvcluaa
vl gqvlbgkpgmuvobmgkpgbmugikffklgakirubtgkpgful,gqzklxagmrfauopgvl gmra
bkgvfvaagvgxzuvbgmuvwgkpgbzuvaszujggMugmvagornu goklxgulksxm,grpgmug.u
qrau,gbkgmvnugvgfrl gbkgabzrwgmrfauopgbkgxkgbkg.u ,glkbgbkgmragnuzt
amrzb,gRgiklpuaa,g.sbgbkgbmvbgvl gvgxkk ,gqvzfg zuaarlx-xkql;gbmu
zufvrlrlxgwkfwa,gkpgqmrimgmugmvaglkgpszbmuzgsau,gmugksxmbgnkoslbvzrotgbk
aszzul uzgbkgbmkau,gbkgqmkfg.tgbmugkz uzgkpglvbszugbmutg.uoklxjgg‘Bra
zuvaklgmugamkso gzupuzgbmugsaugkpgbmkaugbmrlxagbkgbmuf,gauurlxgbmvb
lvbszugmvagzu siu gmrfgbkgasimgvgabvbugbmvbgmugivllkbgulyktgbmufgmrfauop;
kbmuzqraugbmuzugrag ks.bouaagfvoriugvl gulntgrlgbmugivaujggBmugxzuvbuab
vibgkpgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNjgqvagbmvbgqmul,grlgrfrbvbrklgkpgakfugkpgbmu
vlirulbagkpgmragkqlgesvorbt,giklpuaarlxgrbg.sbgzuvaklgbkgabzrwgkszauonua
qmulgkszgiokbmuagulisf.uzgvl gxzkqgbkkgmuvntgpkzgsa,gvl gbkgorug kqlgqmul
kszgouxag.uxrlgbkgpvrogsa,gmugzuarxlu gmragwkaauaarkla,gxzvl usz,gvl 
wkquzgbkgmragakl,gqmulgmugpksl gmrfauopgpvrorlxgrlgnrxksz,gvl gabuv rluaa
pkzgbmugikl sibgkpgmragvppvrzagasrbv.ougqrbmgbmugxokztgmugmv gbmuzurl
viesrzu :

gggggggggg“Akonugauluaiulbufgfvbszugavlsaguessf,glu
ggggggggggWuiiubgv guhbzufsfgzr ul sa,gubgrorvg sivbj”

ggggg[“ rafraagbmugko gmkzaugrlgxkk gbrfu,gouab,gpvrorlxgrlgbmugoraba,
gggggbmugawuibvbkzagovsxmj”--Mkzviu,gUwrabj,grj,gR,g8j]

Bmragpvsobgkpglkbgwuziurnrlxg.ubrfuagvl gkpglkbg.urlxgaular.ougkpgbmu
puu.ouluaagvl guhbzufugvobuzvbrklgbmvbgvxuglvbszvootg.zrlxag.kbmgswkl
.k tgvl gfrl ,gqmrim,grlgftgkwrlrkl,graguesvo,grpgrl uu gbmugaksogmvaglkb
fkzugbmvlgmvop,gmvagokabgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgfkabgkpgbmugxzuvbgfulgrlgbmu
qkzo jggRgmvnugclkqlgrlgftgbrfu,gvl g.uulgrlbrfvbuotgviesvrlbu gqrbm
wuzaklagkpgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbt,gqmkfgklugfrxmbguvarotg raiuzlgfvznuooksaot
ovwau gpzkfgbmugaspprirulitgRgcluqgbmutgquzugkliugul su gqrbm,g.tgbmu
zuwsbvbrklgbmutgmv gviesrzu grlgbmurzgpkzfuzgtuvza,gqmkfgRgikso 
muvzbrot,gpkzgbmurzgkqlgavcua,gmvnugqramu gvbgmkfugvbgbmurzguvau,
 raimvzxu gkpgbmurzgws.origkzgfrorbvztgufwoktfulba,gqmrimgquzuglkqgxzkql
bkkgmuvntgpkzgbmurzgamkso uzajggRgmvnugpkzfuzotg.uulgnuztgpvfrorvzgrlgv
xulboufvl’agmksau,gvgqr kquzgvl gnuztgko ,gbmksxmgmuvobmtgvl gimuuzpso
ulksxm:gbmragxulboufvlgmv gaunuzvog vsxmbuzagbkgfvzztgvl gvgaklgvozuv t
kpgzrwugvxu,gqmrimg.zksxmbgswklgmrfgfvltgnrarbkza,gvl gvgxzuvbguhwulau,
lurbmuzgkpgqmrimgquoogwouvau gmrf,glkbgklotgksbgkpgiklar uzvbrklgkp
pzsxvorbt,g.sbgtubgfkzugpkzgmvnrlx,g.tgzuvaklgkpgmragvxu,gulbuzu grlbkgv
ikszaugkpgorpugpvzg rppuzrlxgpzkfgkszajggRgbko gmrfgklug vtgvgorbbou
.ko ot,gvagRgsau gbkg k,gbmvbgmugqkso g kg.ubbuzgbkgxrnugsagtkslxuzgpkoc
zkkf,gvl gbkgouvnugmragwzrlirwvogmksaug(pkzgmugmv g.sbgbmvbgquoogwoviu 
vl gpszlramu )gbkgmragakl,gvl gmrfauopgzubrzugbkgvlguabvbugmugmv gmvz 
.t,gqmuzuglk.k tgqkso gbzks.ougmragzuwkau,gauurlxgmugikso glkbgkbmuzqrau
vnkr g.urlxgrfwkzbslu g.tgsa,gbmugikl rbrklgkpgmragimro zulgiklar uzu j
Mugbkkcgftgv nriugvpbuzqvz a,gvl gpksl gvlgv nvlbvxugrlgakg krlxj

Rg kglkbgfuvlgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso gakgrlabvogbmufgvaglkbgbkgzuauznugbk
mrfauopgvgor.uzbtgbkgzubzvib;gR,gqmkgvfglkqgvzzrnu gbkgbmugvxugqmuzurl
asimgbmrlxagvzugprbgbkg.ug klu,gqkso gzuarxlgbkgbmufgbmugulyktfulbgkpgft
mksaugvl gxkk a,g.sbgqrbmgvgwkquzgkpgzunkivbrklgrpgbmutgamkso gxrnugfu
ivsaugbkgvobuzgftgfrl ;gRgqkso gouvnugbkgbmufgbmugsau,gbmvbg.urlxglk
oklxuzgiklnulrulbgpkzgfu;gvl ,gkpgbmugxuluzvogvsbmkzrbtgvl gwkquzgknuz
voo,gqkso gzuauznugvagfsimgva--Rgbmksxmbgxkk gbkgftauop;gmvnrlxgvoqvta
muo gbmvbgrbgfsabgluu ag.ugvgxzuvbgavbrapvibrklgbkgvlgvxu gpvbmuzgmrfauop
bkgwsbgmragimro zulgrlbkgbmugqvtgkpgxknuzlrlxgmragvppvrza,gvl gbkgmvnu
wkquzg szrlxgmragkqlgorpugbkgiklbzkogbmurzg.umvnrksz,gaswwotrlxgbmufgqrbm
rlabzsibrklgvl gv nriugpzkfgmragkqlguhwuzruliu,gvl gmrfauopgbkgbzvlapuz
bmugvlirulbgmklkszgvl gkz uzgkpgmragmksaugrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgbmkaugqmkgvzu
bkgasiiuu gmrf,gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagbkgavbraptgmrfauopgvagbkgbmugmkwuagmu
fvtgikliurnugkpgbmurzgpsbszugikl sibjggVl grlgkz uzgbkgbmragRgqkso glkb
vnkr gbmurzgikfwvlt;gRgqkso gk.auznugbmufgluvzgvbgmvl ,gvl gwvzbvcu,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugikl rbrklgkpgftgvxu,gkpgbmurzgpuvabagvl gykoorbruaj
RpgRg r glkbgornugv.akosbuotgvfklxabgbmuf,gqmrimgRgikso glkbg kgqrbmksb
vllktrlxgbmufgvl gbmurzgpzrul a,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugfkzkarbtgkpgftgvxugvl 
bmugzuabouaaluaagkpgftgrlprzfrbrua,gvl gqrbmksbgnrkovbrlxgvoakgbmugzsoua
vl gkz uzgkpgornrlxgRgamkso gbmulgmvnugaubg kqlgbkgftauop,gRgqkso ,gvb
ouvab,gornugluvzgbmufgrlgakfugzubrzu gwvzbgkpgftgmksau,glkbgbmug.uabgrl
amkq,g.sbgbmugfkabgikffk rksajggLkzgvagRgavqgakfugtuvzagvxk,gvg uvlgkp
AbjgMrovztgkpgWkrbruzagxrnulgswgbkgasimgvgakorbs u,gbmvbgvbgbmugbrfugR
ivfugrlbkgmragimvf.uzgrbgmv g.uulgbqkgvl gbqulbtgtuvzagbmvbgmugmv glkb
abuwwu gklugpkkbgksbgkpgrb,gvl gtubgmv gvoogmragfkbrklagpzuugvl guvat,
vl gqvagrlgxkk gmuvobm,gavnrlxgvgiko gbmvbgpuoogswklgmragoslxa;gmugqkso ,
mvz otgkliugrlgvgquuc,gasppuzgvltgklugbkgikfugrlgbkgauugmrf;gmugvoqvta
cuwbgmrfauopgamsbgswgrlgmragimvf.uzgvoklu,guhiuwbgbmvbgvgauznvlbg.zksxmb
mrf,gkliugvg vt,gakfubmrlxgbkguvb,gvl g r gbmulg.sbgysabgikfugrlgvl gxk
ksbgvxvrljggMragufwoktfulbgqvagbkgqvocgswgvl g kql,gvl gzuv gakfug.kkc,
pkzgmugqvagvg.rbgkpgvgaimkovz;g.sb,gvagbkgbmugzuab,gk.abrlvbuotg.ulbgbk
 rugrlgbmragzubrzufulb,gvagmugakklgvpbuzg r jggRgqkso gul uvnkszg.t
wouvavlbgiklnuzavbrklgbkgizuvbugrlgftgimro zulgvgqvzfgvl gslpurxlu 
pzrul amrwgvl gxkk -qroogbkqvz agfu,gqmrimgrlgquoo- uaiul u glvbszuagra
lkbgmvz gbkg k;gpkzgrpgbmutg.ugpszrksag.zsbua,gkpgqmrimgbmragvxugkpgksza
wzk siuagbmksavl a,gqugvzugbmulgbkgmvbugvl gvnkr gbmufgvagasimj

Rgvfgvlxztgvbgbmugisabkfgkpgpkz.r  rlxgimro zulgbkgivoogbmurzgpvbmuzg.t
bmuglvfugkpgpvbmuz,gvl gbkgulykrlgbmufgvlkbmuz,gvagfkzugpsoogkpgzuawuib
vl gzunuzuliu,gvagrpglvbszugmv glkbgaspprirulbotgwzknr u gpkzgksz
vsbmkzrbtjggQugivoogVofrxmbtgXk gPvbmuz,gvl g ra vrlgbkgmvnugkszgimro zul
ivoogsagak;gRgmvnugzupkzfu gbmraguzzkzgrlgftgpvfrotj--[Vag r gMulztgRNj
kpgPzvliu]--Vl g‘bragvoakgpkootgvl grlysabriugbkg uwzrnugimro zul,gqmul
xzkqlgsw,gkpgpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgbmurzgpvbmuz,gvl gbkgivzztgvgaikzlpsogvl 
vsabuzugikslbulvliugbkqvz gbmuf,gbmrlcrlxg.tgbmvbgbkgcuuwgbmufgrlgvqugvl 
k.u ruliu;gpkzgrbgragvgnuztgr ougpvziugbmvb,grlabuv gkpgwzk sirlxgbmu
uppuibg uarxlu ,gzul uzagpvbmuzag rabvabupso,gvl ,gqmrimgragqkzau,
zr risoksagbkgbmurzgkqlgimro zuljggBmutgmvnugtksbmgvl gnrxkszgrl
wkaauaarkl,gvl giklauesulbotgbmug.zuvbmgvl gpvnkszgkpgbmugqkzo ;gvl 
bmuzupkzugzuiurnugbmuaugpruziugvl gbtzvllrivogokkca--fuzugaivzuizkqa--
kpgvgfvlgqrbmksbg.okk ,gurbmuzgrlgmragmuvzbgkzgnurla,gqrbmgfkicuztgvl 
iklbufwbjggBmksxmgRgikso gfvcugftauopgpuvzu ,gRgmv gtubgfsimgzvbmuzgfvcu
ftauopg.uoknu :gbmuzugvzugakgfvltgakzbagkpg upuibagrlgko gvxu,gakgfsim
rf.uirorbt,gvl grbgragakgorv.ougbkgiklbufwb,gbmvbgbmug.uabgviesrarbrklgv
fvlgivlgfvcugragbmugcrl luaagvl gvppuibrklgkpgmragkqlgpvfrot;gikffvl gvl 
puvzgvzuglkgoklxuzgmragquvwklajggAsimgvlgklugRgmvnugclkqlgqmk,gmvnrlx
.uulgnuztgrfwuzrksagrlgmragtksbm,gqmulgmugivfugbkg.ugko ,gbmksxmgmugfrxmb
mvnugornu gvbgmragpsooguvau,gqkso gunuzgabzrcu,gzvlb,gaquvz,gvl giszau:
bmugfkabgnrkoulbgmksaumko uzgrlgPzvliu:gpzubbrlxgmrfauopgqrbmgslluiuaavzt
asawrirklgvl gnrxrovliujggVl gvoogbmragzsf.ougvl giosbbuzg.sbgbkgfvcugmra
pvfrotgimuvbgmrfgbmugfkzu;gkpgmrag.vzl,gmragcrbimul,giuoovz,glvt,gvl gmra
nuztgwszaugbkk,gkbmuzagmv gbmugxzuvbuabgsaugvl gamvzu,gqmroabgmugcuuwa
mragcutagrlgmragwkicubgfsimgfkzugivzupsootgbmvlgmragutuajggQmroabgmugmsxa
mrfauopgqrbmgbmugwrbrpsogpzsxvorbtgkpgvglrxxvz gbv.ou,gunuztbmrlxgxkuagbk
zvicgvl gzsrlgrlgunuztgikzluzgkpgmragmksau,grlgwovt,g zrlc,gvoogakzbagkp
wzkpsarkl,gfvcrlxgawkzbgrlgbmurzgyslcubagqrbmgmragnvrlgvlxuzgvl 
pzsrbouaagwvzarfkltjggUnuztgklugragvgaulbrluogvxvrlabgmrf,gvl grp,g.t
viir ulb,gvltgqzubimu gpuookqgbmvbgauznuagmrfgragkpgvlkbmuzgmsfksz,gvl 
qrooglkbgykrlgqrbmgbmugzuab,gmugragwzuaulbotgzul uzu gasawuibu gbkgmrf,
vg.vrbgbmvbgko gvxugnuztguvarotg.rbuagvbgkpgrbauopjggMkqgkpbulgmvagbmra
xulboufvlg.kvabu gbkgfugrlgmkqgxzuvbgvqugmugcuwbgmragpvfrot,gvl gmkq
uhvibgvlgk.u ruliugvl gzunuzuliugbmutgwvr gmrf!ggMkqgiouvzotgmugavqgrlbk
mragkqlgvppvrza!

gggggggggggggggggggg“Roougakokagluairbgkflrvj”

gggggggggg[“Mugvoklugragrxlkzvlbgkpgvoogbmvbgragwvaarlxj”
ggggggggggg--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grnjgg2,g9j]

Rg kglkbgclkqgvltgklugbmvbgivlgfsabuzgfkzugwvzba,g.kbmglvbszvogvl 
viesrzu ,gwzkwuzgbkgfvrlbvrlg kfrlrkl,gbmvlgmu;gtubgmugragpvooulgpzkfgrb
orcugvgimro jggPkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgragbmvbgRgmvnugwricu gksbgmrf,gvfklxab
aunuzvogkbmuzagbmvbgRgclkqgkpgbmugavfugmsfksz,gpkzgbmugxzuvbuabguhvfwouj
Rbgquzugfvbbuzgpkzgvgesuabrklgrlgbmugaimkkoa,gqmubmuzgmugrag.ubbuzgbmsa
kzgkbmuzqraujggRlgmragwzuauliu,gvoogas.frbgbkgvl g.kqgbkgmrf,gvl gxrnugak
fsimgqvtgbkgmragnvlrbtgbmvbglk.k tgunuzgzuarabagmrf;gmugmvagmragproogkp
vaaulba,gkpgauufrlxgpuvz,gas.fraarkl,gvl gzuawuibjgg kuagmugbszlgvqvtgv
auznvlb?gmugwvicagswgmrag.sl ou,gvl gragxklu;g.sbg‘braglkgpszbmuzgbmvl
ysabgksbgkpgmragarxmb:gbmugabuwagkpgko gvxugvzugakgaokq,gbmugaulauagak
bzks.ou ,gbmvbgmugqroogornugvl g kgmragko gkppriugrlgbmugavfugmksaugv
tuvzgbkxubmuzgqrbmksbg.urlxgwuziurnu j

Vl gvpbuzgvgprbgrlbuznvogkpgbrfu,goubbuzagvzugwzubul u gbkgikfugpzkfgv
xzuvbgqvtgkpp;gnuztgmsf.ou,gaswworvlb;gvl gpsoogkpgwzkfrauagkpgvful fulb,
.tgnrzbsugkpgqmrimgmugragvxvrlgzuiurnu grlbkgpvnkszjgg kuagFklaruszgfvcu
vltg.vzxvrl,gkzgwzuwvzugvltg uawvbimgbmvbg kuaglkbgwouvau?g‘bra
aswwzuaau ,gvl givsauagvpbuzqvz agpkzxu gbkguhisaugbmugqvlbgkpguhuisbrkl
rlgbmugklugkzgvlaquzgrlgbmugkbmuzjggLkgoubbuzag.urlxgprzabg.zksxmbgbk
mrf,gmuglunuzgauuagvltg.sbgbmkaugbmvbgamvoogauufgprbgpkzgmragclkqou xuj
Rpg.tgviir ulbgbmutgpvoogprzabgrlbkgmragkqlgmvl ,g.urlxgsau gbkgbzsab
akfu.k tgbkgzuv gbmufgbkgmrf;gmugzuv aguhbufwkzugqmvbgmugbmrlcagprb,gvl 
kpbulgfvcuagasimgvgklugvacgmrfgwvz klgqmkgv.sauagvl gzvroagvbgmrfgrlgmra
oubbuzjggRlgamkzb,gmugauuaglkbmrlx,g.sbg.tgvlgrfvxugwzuwvzu gvl g uarxlu 
.upkzumvl gvl gbmugfkabgavbrapvibkztgbmutgivlgrlnulb,glkbgbkgzksaugvl 
vqvculgmragroogmsfkszgvl gimkouzjggRgmvnugauul,gsl uzgnvzrksagvawuiba,
ulksxmgkpgbmuaugfk uagkpg kfuabrigxknuzlfulb,goklx-ul szrlx,giklabvlb,gbk
bmugorcuguppuibj

Qkfulggvzugunuzfkzugv  ribu gbkgizkaagbmurzgmsa.vl a:gbmutgovtgmko gqrbm
.kbmgmvl agklgvoogkiivarklagbkgiklbzv ribgvl gkwwkaugbmuf;gbmugprzab
uhisaugauznuagpkzgvgwoulvztgysabrprivbrkljggRgmvnugauulgklugqmkgzk..u 
muzgmsa.vl gqmkouavou,gbmvb,gvagamugbko gmuzgiklpuaakz,gamugfrxmb
 rabzr.sbugbmugfkzugor.uzvogvofajggOubgqmkgqroogbzsabgbkgbmvbgzuorxrksa
 rawulavbrkljggLkgfvlvxufulbgkpgvppvrzagauufagbkgbmufgkpgaspprirulb
 rxlrbt,grpgwzkiuu rlxgpzkfgbmugmsa.vl ’agvaaulb;gbmutgfsabgsaszwgrb
urbmuzg.tgrlakouliugkzgisllrlx,gvl gvoqvtagrlyszrksaot,gkzguoaugrbgmva
lkbgbmugxzviugvl gvsbmkzrbtgbmutg uarzujggQmul,gvagrlgbmugivaugRgvf
awuvcrlxgkp,g‘bragvxvrlabgvgwkkzgko gfvlgvl gpkzgbmugimro zul,gbmulgbmut
fvcugsaugkpgbmragbrbougbkgauznugbmurzgwvaarklgqrbmgxokzt;gvl ,gvagpkzgv
ikffklgauznriu,guvarotgiv.vo,gvl gikf.rlugvxvrlabgmragxknuzlfulbgvl 
 kfrlrkljggRpgbmutg.ugfvouagxzkqlgswgrlgpsoogvl gpokszramrlxgmuvobm,gbmut
wzuaulbotgikzzswb,gurbmuzg.tgpkziugkzgpvnksz,gabuqvz ,gzuiurnuza,gvl gvoo
bmugzksbjggAsimgvagmvnuglurbmuzgqrpuglkzgaklg kglkbgakguvarotgpvoogrlbk
bmragfrapkzbslu;g.sbgqrbmvogfkzugizsuootgvl gslqkzbmrotjggIvbkgbmuguo uz
rlgmragbrfugavr :gAkgfvltgauznvlba,gakgfvltgulufrua;giklar uz,gbmul,
qmubmuzgviikz rlxgbkgbmugnvabg rppuzuliug.ubquulgbmugwszrbtgkpgbmugvxugmu
ornu grlgvl gbmugikzzswbrklgkpgbmragkpgksza,gmug kuaglkbgauufgbkgamuqgsa
bmvbgqrpu,gakl,gvl gauznvlb,gvzugakgfvltgulufruagbkgsa?gg‘Bragquoogpkz
ko gvxugbmvbgrbgragvoqvtagviikfwvlru g.tgqvlbgkpgk.auznvbrkl,grxlkzvliu,
vl gvgwzkluluaagbkg.urlxg uiurnu jgPkzgamkso gqugauugmkqgqugvzugsau gvl 
qkso glkbgviesruaiu,gqmvbgqkso g.uikfugkpgsa?gguawuirvootgrlgasimgvlgvxu
vagbmra,gqmuzugbmugnuztgys xuagqmkgvzugbkg ubuzfrlugkszgiklbzknuzaruagvzu
sasvootgwvzbravlagbkgbmugtkslx,gvl grlbuzuabu grlgbmugivsaujgRlgivaugbmu
 raiknuztgkpgbmragimuvbrlxguaivwugfu,gRgivllkbgvbgouvabgpvrogbkg raiuzl
bmvbgRgvfgnuztgprbgbkg.ugimuvbu jggVl givlgvgfvlgunuzgulksxmguhvobgbmu
nvosugkpgvgpzrul ,grlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgbmuaugirnrogbrua?ggBmugnuztgrfvxu
kpgrbgqmrimgRgauugrlg.uvaba,gakgwszugvl gslikzzswbu ,gmkqgzuorxrksaotg k
Rgzuawuibgrb!ggRpgkbmuzag uiurnugfu,gtubg kgRglkb,gvbgouvab,g uiurnu
ftauopgrlgbmrlcrlxgRgvfgv.ougbkg upul gftauopgpzkfgbmuf,gkzgrlgis xuoorlx
ftg.zvrlagbkgfvcugftauopgakjggRgwzkbuibgftauopgpzkfgasimgbzuvaklagrlgft
kqlg.kakf,glkbg.tgvlgslesrubgvl gbsfsobsksagiszrkarbt,g.sbgzvbmuzg.t
 rnuzarklgvl gzuakosbrkljggQmulgRgmuvzgbvocgkpgvltgklu’agikl rbrkl,gR
lunuzgbzks.ougftauopgbkgbmrlcgkpgmrf;gRgwzuaulbotgbszlgftgutuagswkl
ftauopgbkgauugrlgqmvbgikl rbrklgRgvf;gqmvbunuzgikliuzlagvlkbmuzgzuovbua
bkgfu;gbmugviir ulbgbmvbgmvag.upvooulgmrfgxrnuagfugivsbrkl,gvl gzksauagfu
bkgbszlgftg upuliugbmvbgqvtjggQugunuztg vtgvl gunuztgmkszgavtgbmrlxagkp
vlkbmuzgbmvbgqugfrxmbgwzkwuzotgavtgkpgkszauonua,gikso gqug.sbgvwwotgksz
k.auznvbrklgbkgkszgkqlgikliuzla,gvagquoogvaguhbul grbgbkgkbmuzajggVl 
aunuzvogvsbmkzagmvnugrlgbmragfvlluzgwzuys riu gbmurzgkqlgivsaug.tgzsllrlx
muv oklxgswklgbmkaugbmutgvbbvic,gvl g vzbrlxgbmkaugamvpbagvxvrlabgbmurz
ulufrua,gbmvbgvzugfkzugwzkwuzot,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgv nvlbvxu,gbkg.ugbszlu 
swklgbmufauonuaj

BmugovbugFvzuaimvog ugFklbosigmvnrlxgokabgmragakl,gqmkg ru grlgbmugraovl 
kpgFv urzv,grlgbzsbmgvgnuztgqkzbmtgxulboufvlgvl gkpgxzuvbguhwuibvbrkl,
 r gbkgfu,gvfklxabgmragkbmuzgzuxzuba,gnuztgfsimgrlarabgswklgqmvbgvgakzzkq
vl gmuvzb-.zuvcrlxgrbgqvagbmvbgmugmv glunuzgfv ugmrfauopgpvfrorvzgqrbm
mrf;gvl g.tgbmvbgmsfkszgkpgwvbuzlvogxzvnrbtgvl gxzrfviugbkgmvnugokabgbmu
kwwkzbslrbtgkpgmvnrlxgvlgrlarxmbgrlbkgvl gkpgquoogclkqrlx,gmragakl,gva
voakgkpgoubbrlxgmrfgclkqgbmuguhbzufugvppuibrklgmugmv gpkzgmrf,gvl gbmu
qkzbmtgkwrlrklgmugmv gkpgmragnrzbsujgg“Bmvbgwkkzg.kt,”gavr gmu,g“lunuz
avqgrlgfugkbmuzgbmvlgvgabuzlgvl g ra vrlpsogikslbulvliu,gvl gragxklugrlgv
.uorupgbmvbgRglurbmuzgcluqgmkqgbkgoknugmrfglkzguabuufgmrfgviikz rlxgbk
mrag uauzbjggPkzgqmkfg r gRgzuauznugbmug raiknuztgkpgbmvbgarlxsovz
vppuibrklgRgmv gpkzgmrfgrlgftgakso?ggQvagrbglkbgmugmrfauop,gqmkgksxmbgbk
mvnugmv gvoogbmugwouvaszugkpgrb,gvl gvoogbmugk.orxvbrkl?ggRgiklabzvrlu 
vl gzvicu gftauopgbkgwsbgkl,gvl gfvrlbvrlgbmragnvrlg raxsrau,gvl gmvnug.t
bmvbgfuvlag uwzrnu gftauopgkpgbmugwouvaszugkpgmragiklnuzavbrkl,gvl ,gR
 ks.b,grlgakfugfuvaszu,gmragvppuibrkl,gqmrimgikso glkbg.sbg.ugnuztgiko 
bkgfu,gmvnrlxglunuzgkbmuzgpzkfgfugbmvlgvsabuzrbt,glkzgpuobgkbmuzgbmvlgv
btzvllrivogfvlluzgkpgwzkiuu rlxj”

ggggg[Fv vfug ugAunrxlugbuooagsagbmvbgamuglunuzgzuv gbmragwvaavxugqrbmksb
gggggbuvzagrlgmuzgutuajgg“FtgXk !”gamuguhiovrfa,g“mkqgpsoogragbmrag.kkc
gggggkpgxkk gaulau!”ggU j]

Rgprl gbmragikfwovrlbgbkg.ugzvbrklvogvl gzrxmbotgvwwzumul u :gpkz,gvagR
ftauopgclkqg.tgbkkgiuzbvrlguhwuzruliu,gbmuzugraglkgakgaquubgiklakovbrkl
rlgbmugokaagkpgpzrul agvagbmugiklairuliugkpgmvnrlxgmv glkgzuauznugkz
auizubgpkzgbmuf,gvl gbkgmvnugmv gqrbmgbmufgvgwuzpuibgvl gulbrzu
ikffslrivbrkljggKmgftgpzrul ,--[Ovg.kubruj]gvfgRgbmug.ubbuzgpkzg.urlx
aular.ougkpgbmra;gkzgvfgRgbmugqkzau?ggRgvf,g ks.bouaa,gfsimgbmug.ubbuzj
Rgvfgiklakou gvl gmklkszu ,grlgbmugakzzkqgpkzgmrag uvbmjggRagrbglkbgv
wrksagvl gvgwouvarlxgkppriugkpgftgorpugbkg.ugvoqvtagswklgftgpzrul ’a
k.auesrua?ggIvlgbmuzug.ugvltgyktguesvogbkgbmragwzrnvbrkl?

Rgkwulgftauopgbkgftgpvfrot,gvagfsimgvagRgivl,gvl gnuztgqroorlxotgoubgbmuf
clkqgbmugabvbugkpgftgkwrlrklgvl gxkk gqroogbkqvz agbmuf,gvagRg kgbk
unuzt.k tguoau:gRgfvcugmvabugbkg.zrlxgksbgvl gwzuaulbgftauopgbkgbmuf;gpkz
Rgqrooglkbgmvnugbmufgfrabvculgrlgfu,grlgvltbmrlxjggVfklxabgkbmuz
wvzbrisovzgisabkfagkpgkszgvlirulbgXvsoa,gbmra,gvagIvuavzgzuwkzba,--[ u
.uookgXvooj,gnrjggz8j]--qvagklu,gbmvbgbmugaklaglunuzgwzuaulbu 
bmufauonuag.upkzugbmurzgpvbmuza,glkzg szabgunuzgvwwuvzgrlgbmurzgikfwvlt
rlgws.ori,gbroogbmutg.uxvlgbkg.uvzgvzfa;gvagrpgbmutgqkso grlbrfvbug.t
bmra,gbmvbgrbgqvagvoakgbrfugpkzgbmurzgpvbmuzagbkgzuiurnugbmufgrlbkgbmurz
pvfrorvzrbtgvl gviesvrlbvliuj

Rgmvnugk.auznu gtubgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgrl raizubrklgrlgpvbmuzagkpgftgbrfu,
bmvb,glkbgiklbulbu gqrbmgmvnrlxg uwzrnu gbmurzgimro zul,g szrlxgbmurzgkql
oklxgornua,gkpgbmugamvzugbmutglvbszvootgksxmbgbkgmvnugmv grlgbmurz
pkzbslua,gbmutgvpbuzqvz agouvnugbkgbmurzgqrnuagbmugavfugvsbmkzrbtgknuz
bmurzguabvbua,gvl gor.uzbtgbkg rawkaugkpgbmufgviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkql
pvlitjggVl gRgmvnugclkqlgvgiuzbvrlgokz ,gklugkpgbmugwzrlirwvogkppriuzagkp
bmugizkql,gqmk,gmvnrlxgrlgzunuzarklgv.knugprpbtgbmksavl gizkqlagtuvzot
zunulsu,g ru gluiuaarbksagvl gknuzqmuofu gqrbmg u.bgvbgv.knugprpbtgtuvza
kpgvxu;gmragfkbmuzgrlgmuzguhbzufuabg uizuwrbs ug.urlxgtubgrlgwkaauaarkl
kpgvoogmragwzkwuzbtg.tgbmugqroogkpgmragpvbmuz,gqmkgmv ,gpkzgmragwvzb,
ornu gbroogluvzgpkszaikzugtuvzagko jggBmragvwwuvzagbkgfug.tglkgfuvla
zuvaklv.oujggVl gbmuzupkzugRgbmrlcgrbgkpgnuztgorbbougv nvlbvxugbkgvgfvl,
qmkaugvppvrzagvzugquoogulksxm,gbkgauucgvgqrpugqmkgulisf.uzagmraguabvbu
qrbmgvgnuztgxzuvbgpkzbslu;gbmuzugraglkgakzbgkpgpkzurxlg u.bgbmvbg.zrlxa
fkzugzsrlgbkgpvfroruagbmvlgbmra:gftgwzu uiuaakzagmvnugunuzg.uulgvqvzugkp
bmvbg vlxuzgvl gwzknr u gvxvrlabgrb,gvl gakgmvnugRjgg.sbgbmkaugqmk
 raasv ugsagpzkfgzrimgqrnua,gpkzgpuvzgbmutgamkso g.ugouaagbzvibv.ougvl 
crl ,gvzugksbgrlgbmurzgv nriugbkgfvcugvgfvlgokaugvgzuvogikffk rbtgpkzgak
pzrnkoksagvgiklyuibszujggRbgikabagvlgslzuvaklv.ougqkfvlglkgfkzugbkgwvaa
knuzgklugzuvaklgbmvlgvlkbmuz;gbmutgimuzramgbmufauonuagfkabgqmuzugbmutgvzu
fkabgqzklxjggRlysabriugvooszuagbmuf,gvagbmugmklkszgkpgbmurzgnrzbsksa
vibrklag kuagbmugxkk ;gvl gbmugfkzugzrimuagbmutg.zrlxgqrbmgbmuf,gbmutgvzu
akgfsimgbmugfkzugxkk -lvbszu ,gvagqkful,gqmkgvzugmvl akfu,gvzugvoogbmu
fkzugrliorlu gvl gwzks gbkg.ugimvabuj

‘Bragzuvaklv.ougbkgouvnugbmugv frlrabzvbrklgkpgvppvrzagbkgbmugfkbmuza,
broogbmugimro zulgvzugko gulksxm,gviikz rlxgbkgovq,gbkgfvlvxugbmuf;g.sb
bmugpvbmuzgmvag.zksxmbgbmuf,gswgnuztgroo,grpgmugivllkbgmkwugbmvb,gqmul
bmutgikfugbkgfvbszrbt,gbmutgqroogmvnugfkzugqra kfgvl gv.rorbtgrlgbmu
fvlvxufulbgkpgvppvrzagbmvlgmragqrpu,giklar uzrlxgbmugkz rlvztgquvcluaagkp
bmugauhjggRbgquzu,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gfkzugvxvrlabglvbszu
bkgfvcugbmugfkbmuzag uwul gswklgbmug raizubrklgkpgbmurzgimro zul;gbmut
ksxmbgbkg.ugwoulbrpsootgwzknr u gpkz,gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmufauonuagviikz rlxgbk
bmurzgesvorbtgvl gvxu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgluiuaarbtgvl grl rxuliugvzugfsim
fkzugsl.uikfrlxgvl grlaswwkzbv.ougbkgbmufgbmvlgbkgful;gbmugaklgamkso 
zvbmuzg.ugisbgamkzbgbmvlgbmugfkbmuzj

Rlgxuluzvo,gbmugfkabgys rirksag rabzr.sbrklgkpgkszgxkk a,gqmulgqugikfugbk
 ru,gra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbkgoubgbmufg.ug rabzr.sbu gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
isabkfgkpgbmugikslbzt;gbmugovqagmvnugiklar uzu gbmugfvbbuzg.ubbuzgbmvlgqu
clkqgmkqgbkg k,gvl g‘bragqrauzgbkgoubgbmufgpvrogrlgbmurzgvwwkrlbfulb,
bmvlgzvamotgbkgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgfraivzztrlxgrlgkszajggLkzgvzugbmugxkk a
wzkwuzotgksza,garliu,g.tgirnrogwzuaizrwbrklgvl gqrbmksbgsa,gbmutgvzugvoo
 uabrlu gbkgiuzbvrlgasiiuaakzajggVl gvobmksxmgqugmvnugakfugor.uzbtg.utkl 
bmvb,gtubgRgbmrlcgqugksxmbglkb,gqrbmksbgxzuvbgvl gfvlrpuabgivsau,gbkgbvcu
vqvtgbmvbgpzkfgklugqmrimgmragpkzbslugmvagvookbbu gmrf,gvl gbkgqmrimgbmu
ws.origuesrbtgxrnuagmrfgbrbou;gvl gbmvbgrbgragvxvrlabgzuvaklgbkgv.sau
bmragor.uzbt,grlgfvcrlxgrbgauznugkszgkqlgpzrnkoksagvl gwzrnvbugpvliruaj
Ftg uabrltgmvag.uulgcrl gbkgfugrlglkbgwzuaulbrlxgfugqrbmgkiivarklagbk
bufwbgfugvl g rnuzbgftgvppuibrklgpzkfgbmugikffklgvl gouxrbrfvbu
rlabrbsbrkljggRgauugfvltgqrbmgqmkfg‘bragbrfugokabgbkgufwoktgvgoklx
uhuziraugkpgxkk gkppriua:gvgqkz groogbvculgk.orbuzvbuagbulgtuvza’gfuzrb;
mugragmvwwtgqmkgragrlgvgwkarbrklgbkgkrogbmurzgxkk qroogvbgbmragovab
wvaavxujggBmugovabgvibrklgivzzruagrb,glkbgbmug.uabgvl gfkabgpzuesulb
kppriua,g.sbgbmugfkabgzuiulbgvl gwzuaulbg kgbmugqkzcjggBmuaugvzugwukwou
bmvbgwovtgqrbmgbmurzgqrooagvagqrbmgvwwouagkzgzk a,gbkgxzvbrptgkzgimvabrau
unuztgvibrklgkpgbmkaugqmkgwzubul gbkgvlgrlbuzuabgrlgbmurzgivzujgg‘Bragv
bmrlxgkpgbkkgxzuvbgqurxmbgvl giklauesuliugbkg.ugakgbsf.ou gvl gbkaau gvl 
vobuzu gunuztgfkfulb,gvl gqmuzurlgbmugqraug ubuzfrlugkliugpkzgvoo,gmvnrlx
v.knugvoogbmrlxagzuxvz gbkgzuvaklgvl gbmugws.origk.auznvliujggQugovt
bmuaugfvaisorlugas.abrbsbrklagbkkgfsimgbkgmuvzb,gwzkwkarlxgvgzr risoksa
ubuzlrbtgbkgkszglvfuajggQugvzu,gfkzuknuz,gbkkgaswuzabrbrksagrlgnvrl
iklyuibszuagvagbkgbmugpsbszu,gbmvbgqug uzrnugpzkfgbmugqkz agvl gvibrkla
kpgimro zuljggWuzv nulbszugbmutgfrxmbgmvnug klugfugvlgrlysabriu,grl
 rawkaauaarlxgfugkpgftgzrxmb,gpkzgmvnrlxg.uulgbmugfkabg soogvl gmuvnt,
bmugfkabgaokqgvl gslqroorlxgvbgftg.kkc,glkbgkpgvoogftg.zkbmuzagklot,g.sb
kpgvoogbmug.ktagrlgbmugqmkougwzknrliu:gqmubmuzgv.ksbgouvzlrlxgftgouaakl,
kzgv.ksbgvltg.k rotguhuziraujgg‘Bragvgpkootgbkgfvcugvlguouibrklgksbgkp
bmugkz rlvztgikszaugswklgbmugizu rbgkpgbmuaug rnrlvbrklagqmuzurlgqugvzu
akgkpbulg uiurnu jggRpgbmugkz rlvztgzsougkpg uaiulbgquzugbkg.ugnrkovbu ,
vl gbmug uabrlruagikzzuibu grlgbmugimkriugbmutgmvnugfv ugkpgkszgmurza,
klugfrxmbgfkzugwovsar.otg kgrbgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgakfugzufvzcv.ougvl 
ulkzfksagwuzaklvog upkzfrbt,gvgwuzfvlulbgvl grlikzzrxr.oug upuib,gvl grl
bmugkwrlrklgkpgsagPzulim,gqmkgvzugxzuvbgv frzuzagkpg.uvsbt,gvlgrfwkzbvlb
wzuys riuj

Bmugwouvavlbg rvokxsug.ubqrhbgWovbk’agouxraovbkzgvl gmragirbrdulagqroog.u
vlgkzlvfulbgbkgbmragwoviu,g“Qmvb,”gavr gbmut,gpuuorlxgbmufauonuagv.ksbgbk
 ru,g“fvtgquglkbg rawkaugkpgkszgkqlgbkgqmkfgqugwouvau?ggXk !ggqmvb
izsuobtgbmvbgrbgamvooglkbg.ugovqpsogpkzgsa,gviikz rlxgvagqugmvnug.uul
auznu gvl gvbbul u grlgkszgaricluaa,grlgkszgko gvxu,grlgkszgvppvrza,gbk
xrnugfkzugkzgouaagbkgbmkaugqmkfgqugmvnugpksl gfkabg rorxulbgv.ksbgsa,gvb
kszgkqlgpvlitgvl g raizubrkl!”ggBkgqmrimgbmugouxraovbkzgvlaquzagbmsa:

“Ftgpzrul a,gqmkgvzuglkq,gqrbmksbgesuabrkl,gnuztgakklgbkg ru,grbgragmvz 
pkzgtksgrlgbmugikl rbrklgtksgvzu,gurbmuzgbkgclkqgtkszauonua,gkzgqmvbgra
tksza,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug uowmrigrlaizrwbrkljggR,gqmkgfvcugbmugovqa,gvfgkp
kwrlrkl,gbmvbgtksglurbmuzgvzugtkszauonuagtkszgkql,glkzgragbmvbgtkszagkp
qmrimgtksgvzugwkaauaau jgg.kbmgtkszgxkk agvl gtksg.uoklxgbkgtksz
pvfrorua,gvagquoogbmkaugwvabgvagbmkaugbkgikfu;g.sb,gpszbmuz,g.kbmgtksz
pvfrotgvl gxkk agfsimgfkzugvwwuzbvrlgbkgbmugws.orijggQmuzupkzu,gouabgvlt
povbbuzuzgrlgtkszgko gvxugkzgrlgtkszgaricluaa,gkzgvltgwvaarklgkpgtksz
kql,gamkso gslauvaklv.otgwzunvrogqrbmgtksgbkgfvcugvlgslysabgqroo,gRgamvoo
bvcugivzugbkgwzunulbgbmvbgrliklnulruliu;g.sb,gmvnrlxgzuawuibg.kbmgbkgbmu
slrnuzavogrlbuzuabagkpgbmugirbtgvl gbmvbgkpgtkszgwvzbrisovzgpvfrot,gR
amvooguabv.oramgovqa,gvl gfvcugrbg.tgxkk gzuvaklagvwwuvz,gbmvbgwzrnvbu
iklnulruliugksxmbgbkgxrnugwoviugbkgbmugikffklg.uluprbjggXkgbmul
imuuzpsootgqmuzugmsfvlgluiuaarbtgivooagtksjggRbgragpkzgfu,gqmkgzuxvz glk
fkzugbmugklugbmrlxgbmvlgbmugkbmuz,gvl gqmk,gvagfsimgvagrlgfugorua,gvf
wzknr ulbgkpgbmugws.origrlbuzuab,gbkgmvnugvgivzugvagbkgqmvbgtksgouvnu
.umrl gtksj”

Bkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib:grbgvwwuvzagbkgfugbmvbgqkfulgvzugnuztgzvzuot
.kzl,gbkgqmkfgbmugwzuzkxvbrnugknuzgful,gbmugfvbuzlvogvl glvbszvo
uhiuwbu ,gragrlgvltgakzbg su,gslouaagrbg.ugpkzgbmugwslramfulbgkpgasim,
vagrlgakfugvfkzksagpunuzgmvnugnkoslbvzrotgas.frbbu gbmufauonuagbkgbmuf:
.sbgbmvbgrlglkgqvtgikliuzlagbmugko gklua,gkpgqmkfgqugvzuglkqgawuvcrlxj
Bmragiklar uzvbrklgrbgragqmrimgmvagfv ugsagakgqroorlxotgbkgulvibgvl gxrnu
pkziugbkgbmvbgovq,gqmrimgqvaglunuzgtubgauulg.tgvltgklu,g.tgqmrimgqkful
vzuguhios u gbmugasiiuaarklgbkgkszgizkql:gvl gbmuzugragmvz otgv
xknuzlfulbgrlgbmugqkzo gqmuzugrbgraglkbgwouv u ,gvagrbgragmuzu,g.tgbmu
wzk.v.rorbtgkpgzuvaklgbmvbgvsbmkzrauagrb,gbmksxmgpkzbslugmvagxrnulgrb
fkzugizu rbgrlgakfugwoviuagbmvlgrlgkbmuzajgg‘Brag vlxuzksagbkgouvnugbmu
 rawkavogkpgkszgasiiuaarklgbkgbmurzgys xfulb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugimkriu
bmutgamvoogfvcugkpgimro zul,gqmrimgragkpbulgpvlbvabrigvl gslysab;gpkzgbmu
rzzuxsovzgvwwubrbuagvl g uwzvnu gbvabuagbmutgmvnug szrlxgbmugbrfugkp
bmurzg.urlxgqrbmgimro ,gbmutgmvnugvbgvoogkbmuzgbrfuagrlgbmugfrl jggQu
ikffklotgauugbmufgpkl gkpgbmugfkabgquvc,gzricubbt,gvl g upkzfu gimro zul;
kzgkpgbmkau,grpgbmutgmvnugasim,gvagvzugabroogmvlxrlxgvbgbmug.zuvabjggPkz,
lkbgmvnrlxgaspprirulbgpkziugkpgzuvaklgbkgimkkaugvl guf.zviugbmvbgqmrimgra
fkabgqkzbmt,gbmutgbmugfkzugqroorlxotgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugivzzru 
vqvt,gqmuzugbmugrfwzuaarklagkpglvbszugvzugfkabgvoklu;gorcugvlrfvoagbmvb
clkqgbmurzgtkslxglkgoklxuzgbmvlgbmutgxrnugbmufgasicjggVagbkgbmugzuab,grb
raguvatg.tguhwuzruliugbkg.ug raiuzlu gbmvbgbmraglvbszvogvppuibrklgbk
qmrimgqugxrnugakgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbtgmvag.sbgnuztgquvcgzkkbajggPkzgvgnuzt
orbbougwzkprb,gqugunuztg vtgbuvzgbmurzgkqlgimro zulgksbgkpgbmugfkbmuza’
vzfa,gvl gfvcugbmufgbvcugkszagrlgbmurzgzkkf:gqugfvcugbmufgv.vl klgbmurz
kqlgbkgakfugwrbrpsoglszau,gbkgqmkfgqug ra vrlgbkgikffrbgksza,gkzgbkgakfu
amu-xkvb,gpkz.r  rlxgbmuf,glkbgklotgbkgxrnugbmufgasic,gqmvbg vlxuzgakunuz
bmutgzslgbmuzu.t,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gbkgbvcugvltgfvlluzgkpgivzugkpgbmuf,gbmvb
bmutgfvtgqmkootg.ugkiiswru gqrbmgbmugivzugkpgvl gvbbul vliugswklgksza;
vl gqugauugrlgfkabgkpgbmufgvlgv sobuzvbugvppuibrkl,gfkzugnumufulbgbmvl
bmuglvbszvo,g.uxkbbulg.tgisabkfgbkqvz gbmugpkabuzgimro zul,gvl gvgxzuvbuz
akorirbs ugpkzgbmugwzuauznvbrklgkpgbmkaugbmutgmvnugbvculgimvzxugkp,gbmvl
kpgbmurzgkqljggVl gbmvbgqmrimgRgqvagavtrlxgkpgxkvbagqvagswklgbmra
viikslb;gbmvbgrbgragkz rlvztgvoogv.ksbgqmuzugRgornu,gbkgauugbmu
ikslbztqkful,gqmulgbmutgqvlbgfrocgkpgbmurzgkqlgpkzgbmurzgimro zul,gbk
ivoogxkvbagbkgbmurzgvaarabvliu;gvl gRgmvnugvbgbmragmkszgbqkgful-auznvlba
bmvbglunuzgasicu gqkful’agfrocgfkzugbmvlgurxmbg vtagvpbuzgbmutgquzug.kzlj
Bmuaugxkvbagvzugrffu rvbuotgbvsxmbgbkgikfugbkgasicougbmugorbbougimro zul,
clkqgbmurzgnkriuagqmulgbmutgizt,gvl gikfugzsllrlxgbkgbmufjggRpgvltgkbmuz
bmvlgbmragpkabuz-imro g.ugwzuaulbu gbkgbmuf,gbmutgzupsaugbkgoubgrbgasic;
vl gbmugimro grlgorcugfvlluzgqroogzupsaugbkgasicgvlkbmuzgxkvbjggRgavqgklu
bmugkbmuzg vtgpzkfgqmkfgbmutgmv gbvculgvqvtgbmugxkvbgbmvbgsau gbkglkszram
rb,g.tgzuvaklgbmugpvbmuzgmv gklotg.kzzkqu grbgkpgvglurxm.ksz;gbmugimro 
qkso glkbgbksimgvltgkbmuzgbmutgikso g.zrlx,gvl g ru ,g ks.bouaagkp
mslxuzjgg.uvabagvaguvarotgvobuzgvl gikzzswbgbmurzglvbszvogvppuibrklgva
qu:gRg.uorunugbmvbgrlgqmvbgMuzk kbsagzuovbuagkpgvgiuzbvrlg rabzribgkp
Ot.rv,gbmuzugvzugfvltgfrabvcua;gmugavtagbmvbgbmugqkfulgvzugbmuzugrl
ikffkl;g.sbgbmvbgbmugimro ,gakgakklgvagrbgivlgxk,gprl agmrfgksbgrlgbmu
izkq gpkzgmragpvbmuz,gbkgqmkfgmugragprzabgou g.tgmraglvbszvogrliorlvbrklj

Lkq,gbkgiklar uzgbmragarfwougzuvaklgpkzgoknrlxgkszgimro zul,gbmvbgqugmvnu
.uxkbgbmuf,gbmuzupkzugivoorlxgbmufgkszgauikl gauonua,grbgvwwuvza,
fubmrlca,gbmvbgbmuzugragvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgwzk sibrklgwzkiuu rlxgpzkfgsa,
bmvbgragkpglkgouaagzuikfful vbrkl:gpkzgbmvbgqmrimgqugulxul uzg.tgbmu
akso,gbmugraasugkpgkszgsl uzabvl rlx,gikszvxu,gvl gv.rorbrua,gawzrlxa
pzkfglk.ouzgwvzbagbmvlgbmkaugkpgbmug.k t,gvl gbmvbgvzugfsimgfkzugkszgkql:
qugvzug.kbmgpvbmuzgvl gfkbmuzgrlgbmragxuluzvbrkljggBmuaugikabgsagvgxzuvb
 uvogfkzugvl g.zrlxgsagfkzugmklksz,grpgbmutgmvnugvltbmrlxgkpgxkk grl
bmufjggPkzgbmugnvosugkpgkszgkbmuzgimro zulgragfsimgfkzugbmurzagbmvlgksza;
bmugamvzugqugmvnugrlgbmufgragnuztgorbbou;g.sbgkpgbmuaugvoogbmug.uvsbt,
voogbmugxzviugvl gnvosu,gvzugksza;gvl gvoakgbmutgfkzugnrnr otgzuwzuaulb
sagbmvlgbmugkbmuzajggWovbkgv  a,gbmvbgbmuaugvzugrffkzbvogimro zulgbmvb
rffkzbvoraugvl g urptgbmurzgpvbmuza,gvagOtiszxsa,gAkokl,gFrlkajggLkq,
mrabkzruag.urlxgpsoogkpguhvfwouagkpgbmugikffklgvppuibrklgkpgpvbmuzagbk
bmurzgimro zul,grbgauufaglkbgvobkxubmuzgrfwzkwuzgbkgrlbzk siugakfugpuqgkp
bmragkbmuzgcrl jggMuork kzsa,gbmvbgxkk g.ramkwgkpgBzrccv,gzvbmuzgimkaugbk
okaugbmug rxlrbt,gwzkprb,gvl g unkbrklgkpgakgnuluzv.ougvgwzuovit,gbmvlgbk
okaugmrag vsxmbuz;gvg vsxmbuzgbmvbgiklbrlsuagbkgbmrag vtgnuztgxzviupso
vl gikfuot;g.sb,gwuzv nulbszu,gvgorbbougbkkgiszrksaotgvl gqvlbklot
bzricu ,gvl gbkkgvfkzksagpkzgvlguiiouarvabrivogvl gaviuz kbvog vsxmbuzj
BmuzugqvagklugOv.rulsagvbgZkfu,gvgfvlgkpgxzuvbgqkzbmgvl gvsbmkzrbt,gvl 
vfklxabgkbmuzgesvorbruaguhiuooulbgrlgvoogakzbagkpgorbuzvbszu,gqmkgqva,gva
Rgbvcugrb,gbmugaklgkpgbmvbgxzuvbgOv.rulsa,gbmugimrupgkpgIvuavz’agivwbvrla
rlgbmugqvzagkpgXvso;gvl gqmk,gvpbuzqvz a,gar rlxgqrbmgWkfwutgbmugxzuvb,
akgnvorvlbotgfvrlbvrlu gmragivsau,gbroogmugqvag.tgIvuavzg upuvbu grl
AwvrljggBmragOv.rulsa,gkpgqmkfgRgvfglkqgawuvcrlx,gmv gaunuzvogulufrua,
ulnrksagkpgmragxkk gesvorbrua,gvl ,gbragorcuot,gbmugikszbruzagvl gfrlrkla
kpgbmugufwuzkzagkpgmragbrfugqmkgquzugnuztgvlxztgvbgmragpzuu kfgvl gbmu
wvbuzlvogmsfkszgqmrimgmugtubgzubvrlu gvxvrlabgbtzvllt,gqrbmgqmrimgrbgra
bkg.ugaswwkau gmugmv gbrlibszu gmrag.kkcagvl gqzrbrlxajggMragv nuzavzrua
wzkauisbu gaunuzvogwruiuagmugmv gws.oramu g.upkzugbmugfvxrabzvbuagvb
Zkfu,gvl gwzunvrou gakgpvzgvxvrlabgmrf,gvagbkgmvnugbmufgikl uflu gbkgbmu
przujggRbgqvagrlgmrfgbmvbgbmragluqguhvfwougkpgwslramfulbgqvag.uxsl,gqmrim
qvagvpbuzqvz agiklbrlsu gvxvrlabgkbmuzagvbgZkfu,gbkgwslramgunulgqzrbrlx
vl gabs ruagqrbmg uvbmjggBmuzugqkso glkbg.ugfuvlagvl gfvbbuzgulksxmgkp
izsuobt,g r gquglkbgfrhgqrbmgbmufgbmrlxagbmvbglvbszugmvaguhufwbu gpzkf
voogaulaugvl gasppuzrlx,gvagzuwsbvbrklgvl gbmugwzk sibagkpgbmugfrl ,gvl 
 r gquglkbgikffslrivbugikzwkzvogwslramfulbagbkgbmugbuvimrlxagvl 
fklsfulbagkpgbmugFsauajggLkq,gOv.rulsagikso glkbgasppuzgbmragokaa,glkz
asznrnugbmuaugmragakg uvzgraasu,gvl gbmuzupkzugivsau gmrfauopgbkg.u
iklnutu gvl gamsbgswgvornugrlgbmugfklsfulbgkpgmragvliuabkza,gqmuzugmu
fv ugamrpbgbkgcroogvl g.sztgmrfauopgvbgkliujgg‘Bragmvz gbkgamuqgvgfkzu
numufulbgwvbuzlvogvppuibrklgbmvlgbmrajggIvaarsagAunuzsa,gvgfvlgkpgxzuvb
uokesuliugvl gmragnuztgrlbrfvbugpzrul ,gauurlxgmrag.kkcag.szlu ,gizru 
ksbgbmvbg.tgbmugavfugaulbuliugbmutgamkso gvagquoogikl uflgmrfgbkgbmugprzu
bkk,gauurlxgbmvbgmugivzzru grlgmragfufkztgvoogbmvbgbmutgiklbvrlu jggBmu
orcugviir ulbg.upuogIzufsbrsagIkz sa,gqmkg.urlxgviisau gkpgmvnrlxgrlgmra
.kkcagikfful u g.zsbsagvl gIvaarsa,gbmvbg rzbt,gauznrou,gvl gikzzswb
Aulvbu,gqkzbmtgvgqkzaugfvabuzgbmvlgBr.uzrsa,gikl uflu gmragqzrbrlxagbk
bmugpovfujggMugqvagqroorlxgbkg.uvzgbmufgikfwvlt,gvl gcroou gmrfauopgqrbm
pvabrlxjggBmugxkk gOsivl,g.urlxgikl uflu g.tgbmvbgzvaivogLuzk,gvbgbmu
ovabgxvawgkpgmragorpu,gqmulgbmugxzuvbuzgwvzbgkpgmrag.okk gqvagvozuv t
awulbgbmzksxmgbmugnurlagkpgmragvzfa,gqmrimgmugmv givsau gmragwmtarirvlgbk
kwulgbkgfvcugmrfg ru,gvl gqmulgbmugiko gmv gaurdu gswklgvoogmra
uhbzufrbrua,gvl g.uxvlgbkgvwwzkvimgmragnrbvogwvzba,gbmugovabgbmrlxgmugmv 
rlgmragfufkztgqvagakfugkpgbmugnuzauagkpgmrag.vbbougkpgWmvtavorv,gqmrimgmu
zuirbu ,g trlxgqrbmgbmufgrlgmragfksbmjggQmvbgqvagbmra,g.sbgbvcrlxgv
bul uzgvl gwvbuzlvogouvnugkpgmragimro zul,grlgrfrbvbrklgkpgbmu
nvou ribrklagvl guf.zviua,gqmuzuqrbmgqugwvzbgpzkfgksza,gqmulgqugikfugbk
 ru,gvl gvlguppuibgkpgbmvbglvbszvogrliorlvbrkl,gbmvbgasxxuabagbkgksz
zufuf.zvliugrlgbmraguhbzufrbtgbmkaugbmrlxagqmrimgquzug uvzuabgbkgsa
 szrlxgbmugbrfugkpgkszgorpu?

Ivlgqug.uorunugbmvbgUwriszsagqmk,gvagmugavtagmrfauop,g trlxgkpgbmu
rlbkouzv.ougwvrlgkpgbmugabklu,gmv gvoogmragiklakovbrklgrlgbmug.uvsbtgkp
bmug kibzrlugmugoupbg.umrl gmrf,gikso gmvnugzuiurnu gbmugavfu
avbrapvibrklgpzkfgfvltgimro zul,gbmksxmglunuzgakgquoo-ikl rbrklu gvl 
.zksxmbgsw,gmv gmugmv gbmuf,gvagmug r gpzkfgbmugwzk sibrklgkpgakgfvlt
zrimgqzrbrlxa?ggKzgbmvb,gmv grbg.uulgrlgmragimkriugbkgmvnugoupbg.umrl 
mrfgvg upkzfu gvl gslbkqvz gimro gkzgvgpkkoramgvl gzr risoksag.kkc,gmu,
kzgvltgkbmuzgfvlgkpgmragsl uzabvl rlx,gqkso glkbgzvbmuzgmvnugimkaulgbk
mvnugzslgbmugprzabgfrapkzbslugbmvlgbmugkbmuz?ggRbgmv g.uul,gpkzguhvfwou,
wuzv nulbszu,gvlgrfwrubtgrlgAbjgVsxsabrl,grp,gklgbmugklugmvl ,grbgmv 
.uulgwzkwkau gbkgmrfgbkg.sztgmragqzrbrlxa,gpzkfgqmrimgzuorxrklgmva
zuiurnu gakgxzuvbgpzsrb,gkzgklgbmugkbmuzgbkg.sztgmragimro zul,gmv gmugmv 
bmuf,gmv gmuglkbgzvbmuzgimkaulgbkg.sztgmragimro zuljggVl gRgclkqglkb
qmubmuzgRgmv glkbgfsimgzvbmuzgmvnug.uxkbgvgnuztg.uvsbrpsogklu,gbmzksxm
akirubtgqrbmgbmugFsaua,gbmvlg.tgotrlxgqrbmgftgqrpujggBkgbmra,gasimgvagrb
ra,gqmvbgRgxrnugrbgRgxrnugv.akosbuotgvl grzzunkiv.ot,gvagfulg kgbkgbmurz
.k rotgimro zuljggBmvbgorbbougRgmvnug klugpkzgrb,graglkgfkzugvbgftgkql
 rawkavo;grbgfvtgclkqgfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugxklugpzkfgfu,gvl gpzkfgfugmko 
bmvbgqmrimgRgmvnuglkbgzubvrlu ;gvl gqmrim,gvagquoogvagvgabzvlxuz,gR
amkso g.kzzkqgbmuliu,gamkso gRgabvl grlgluu jggRpgRgvfgqrauzgbmvlgft
.kkc,grbgragzrimuzgbmvlgRjggBmuzugvzugpuqgfulgv  ribu gbkgwkubzt,gqmk
qkso glkbg.ugfsimgwzks uzgbkg.ugbmugpvbmuzgbkgbmugVUlur gbmvlgbkgbmu
mvl akfuabgtksbmgkpgZkfu;gvl gqmkgqkso glkbgfsimg.ubbuzg.uvzgbmugokaagkp
bmugklugbmvlgkpgbmugkbmuzjggPkzgviikz rlxgbkgVzrabkbou,gbmugwkub,gkpgvoo
vzbrpriuza,gragbmugpkl uabgkpgmragqkzcjgg‘Bragmvz gbkg.uorunugbmvb
Uwvfrlkl va,gqmkg.kvabu gbmvbgrlgorusgkpgvoogwkabuzrbtgmugoupbgbqk
 vsxmbuzag.umrl gmrfgbmvbgqkso gklug vtg kgbmurzgpvbmuzgmklkszg(fuvlrlx
bmugbqkgnribkzruagmugk.bvrlu gknuzgbmugOviu vufklrvla),gqkso gqroorlxot
mvnugiklaulbu gbkguhimvlxugbmuaugpkzgbmugfkabg.uvsbrpsogizuvbszuagkpgvoo
Xzuuiu;gkzgbmvbgVouhvl uzgkzgIvuavzgunuzgqramu gbkg.ug uwzrnu gkpgbmu
xzvl uszgkpgbmurzgxokzrksaguhwokrbagrlgqvz,gpkzgbmugiklnulruliugkp
imro zulgvl gmurza,gmkqgwuzpuibgvl gviikfworamu gakunuzjggLvt,gRgfvcugv
xzuvbgesuabrkl,gqmubmuzgWmr rvagkzgvltgkbmuzguhiuooulbgaisowbkzgqkso g.u
akgakorirbksagkpgbmugwzuauznvbrklgvl giklbrlsvliugkpgmraglvbszvo
imro zul,gvagmugqkso g.ugkpgvgzvzugabvbsu,gqmrimgqrbmgoklxgov.kszgvl 
abs tgmugmv gwuzpuibu gviikz rlxgbkgvzbjggVl gbkgbmkaugpszrksagvl 
rzzuxsovzgwvaarklagbmvbgmvnugakfubrfuagrlpovfu gpvbmuzagbkqvz agbmurzgkql
 vsxmbuza,gvl gfkbmuzagbkqvz agbmurzgkqlgakla,gbmugorcugragvoakgpksl grl
bmragkbmuzgakzbgkpgwvzulbvxu:gqrbluaagqmvbgragzuovbu gkpgWtxfvorklgqmk,
mvnrlxgfv ugbmugabvbsugkpgvgqkfvlgkpgarlxsovzg.uvsbt,gpuoogak
wvaarklvbuotgrlgoknugqrbmgbmragqkzcgkpgmra,gbmvbgbmugxk agrlgpvnkszgkp
mragwvaarklgrlawrzu grbgqrbmgorpuj

gggggggggggggg“Bulbvbsfgfkoouairbgu.sz,gwkarbkesugzrxkzu,
gggggggggggggggAs.ar rbg rxrbraj”

ggggg[“Bmugrnkztgxzkqagakpbgsl uzgmragbksimgvl gtruo agbkgmragprlxuzaj”
gggggg--Knr ,gFubvfj,ghjg283j]




IMVWBUZgRH

KPgBMUgVZFAgKPgBMUgWVZBMRVLA

‘Bragvlgroogisabkfgvl gslfvlotgbmvbgbmugxulboufulgkpgkszgbrfugmvnugxkb,
lkbgbkgwsbgklgvzfag.sbgysabgswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgbmugfkabguhbzufugluiuaarbt,
vl gbkgovtgbmufg.tgvxvrl,gakgakklgvagunuzgbmuzugragvltgamkqgkpgbmug vlxuz
.urlxgknuz;gmuliugfvltg rakz uzagvzrau;gpkzgunuztgklug.saborlxgvl 
zsllrlxgbkgmragvzfagysabgqmulgmugamkso gxkgbkgimvzxu,gmvagmragisrzvaagbk
.sicougklgqmulgmragikfwvlrklagvzugvozuv tgwsbgbkgzksbjggKszgvliuabkza
quzugqklbgbkgxrnugbmurzgmuv -wruiu,govliugvl gxvslboubagbkg.ugivzzru ,
.sbglunuzgwsbgkppgbmugkbmuzgwruiuagakgoklxgvagbmuzugqvagvltgqkzcgbkg.u
 klujggKszgbzkkwagvzuglkqgisf.uzu gvl gzul uzu gslarxmbotgqrbmgbmu
iosbbuzgkpg.vxxvxugvl gauznvlbagqmkgivllkbg.ugpzkfgbmurzgfvabuza,g.t
zuvaklgbmutgivzztgbmurzgvzfajggBrbsagOrnrsagawuvcrlxgkpgkszglvbrkl:

ggggg“Rlbkouzvlbraarfvgov.kzragikzwkzvgnrhgvzfvgmsfuzragxuzu.vlbj”

ggggg[“.k ruagfkabgrfwvbrulbgkpgov.kszgikso gaivziugul szugbkgquvz
gggggbmurzgvzfagklgbmurzgamkso uzaj”--Ornt,ghjg28j]

Fvltglvbrklag kgtub,gvl g r gvlirulbot,gxkgbkgqvzgqrbmksbg upularnugvzfa,
kzgqrbmgasim,gvbgouvab,gvagquzugkpgnuztgorbbougwzkkp:

gggggggggg“Buxfrlvgesuragivwrbsf,gzvwbsag ugas.uzugikzbuhj”

ggggg[“Bkgqmkfgbmugiknuzrlxagkpgbmugmuv agquzugbmug.vzcgkpgbmu
gggggikzc-bzuuj”--VUlur ,gnrrjg742j]

Vouhvl uz,gbmugfkabgv nulbszksagivwbvrlgbmvbgunuzgqva,gnuztgauo kfgqkzu
vzfksz,gvl gasimgvfklxabgsagvagaorxmbgrb,g kglkbg.tgbmvbgfsimgmvzfgbkgbmu
fvrlgikliuzl;gpkzgrpgqugauugakfugcroou gpkzgqvlbgkpgrb,gbmuzugvzugpuq
ouaagqmkfgbmugosf.uzgkpgvzfagmuowagbkg uabzkt,gurbmuzg.tg.urlx
knuz.szbmulu ,gizsamu ,gvl gizvfwu gqrbmgbmurzgqurxmb,g.tgvgzs ugamkic,
kzgkbmuzqraujggPkz,grlgwovrlgbzsbm,gbkgk.auznugbmugqurxmbgvl gbmricluaa
kpgbmugvzfkszgqugmvnuglkqgrlgsau,grbgauufagvagrpgqugklotgaksxmbgbkg upul 
kszauonua,gvl gvzugzvbmuzgokv u gbmvlgauiszu g.tgrbjggQugmvnugulksxmgbk
 kgbkgaswwkzbgrbagqurxmb,g.urlxgakgfvlviou gvl grffszu ,gvagrpgqugquzu
klotgbkgiklbul gqrbmgkszgkqlgvzfa,gvl gvagrpgqugmv glkbgbmugavfu
k.orxvbrklgbkg upul gbmuf,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugbkg upul gsajggBvirbsagxrnuagv
wouvavlbg uaizrwbrklgkpgbmugful-vb-vzfagvfklxgkszgvlirulbgXvsoa,gqmkgquzu
akgvzfu gvagklotgbkg.ugv.ougbkgabvl ,gqrbmksbgwkquzgbkgmvzfgkzgbkg.u
mvzfu ,gkzgbkgzraugvxvrlgrpgkliugabzsicg kqljggOsisoosa,gauurlxgiuzbvrl
ako ruzagkpgbmugFu ua,gqmkgpkzfu gbmugnvlgkpgBrxzvlua’gvzft,gmuvnrot
vzfu gvl gnuztgsluvat,gvagrpgrlgwzraklagkpgrzkl,gbmuliugikliurnu gmkwua
qrbmgxzuvbguvaugbkg upuvbgbmuf,gvl g.tgbmufg.uxvlgmragimvzxugvl gnribkztj
Vl glkqgbmvbgkszgfsacubuuzagvzugrlgizu rb,gRg.uorunugakfugrlnulbrklgqroo
.ugpksl gksbgbkgrffszugsagpkzgkszgavpubt,gvl gbkg zvqgsagbkgbmugqvzgrl
ivaboua,gasimgvagbmkaugbmugvlirulbagokv u gbmurzguouwmvlbagqrbmvoj

Bmragmsfkszgragpvzg rppuzrlxgpzkfgbmvbgkpgbmugtkslxuzgAirwrk,gqmkgamvzwot
zuwzumul u gmragako ruzagpkzgmvnrlxgwovlbu givobzkwagsl uzgqvbuz,grlgv
 rbimg.tgqmrimgbmkaugkpgbmugbkqlgmugmuo g.uaruxu gfrxmbgavootgksbgswkl
mrf;gavtrlx,gbmvbgbmkaugqmkgvaavsobu gamkso gbmrlcgkpgvbbvicrlx,gvl glkb
bkgpuvz;gasawuibrlx,gqrbmgxkk gzuvakl,gbmvbgbmragabkwgbmutgmv gwsbgbkgbmu
ulufrua,gqkso gfvcugbmufauonuagouaagnrxrovlbgswklgbmurzgxsvz jggMugavr 
voakgbkgvgtkslxgfvl,gqmkgamkqu gmrfgvgprlug.sicouzgmugmv ,gbmvbgmugqva
nuztgwzks gkp,g“Rbgragvgnuztgprlug.sicouzgrl uu ,g.sbgvgZkfvlgako ruz
ksxmbgbkgzuwkaugxzuvbuzgiklpr uliugrlgmragzrxmbgmvl gbmvlgrlgmragoupbj”

Lkqg‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgbmuglkbg.urlxgsau gbkgquvzgrbgbmvbgfvcuagbmugqurxmb
kpgkszgvzfkszgakgrlbkouzv.ou:

ggggggggg“O’sa.uzxkgrlg kaakgmvnuvlk,gubgo’uofkgrlgbuabv,
gggggggggg sug rgesuabrgxsuzzruz,g u’gesvorgrkgivlbk;
ggggggggggLuglkbbugkg r,g ’gvwwkrgim’gulbzvzkgrlgesuabv
ggggggggggAbvldv,gxo’mvnuvlkgfvrgfuaarg vgivlbk;
ggggggggggImugpvirougvgwkzbvzgikfugovgnuabv
ggggggggggUzvgokz,gwuzimugrlgsakgo’mvnuvlgbvlbk:”

ggggg[“Bqkgkpgbmugqvzzrkza,gkpgqmkfgRgarlx,gmv gklgbmurzg.vicagbmurz
gggggisrzvaagvl gklgbmurzgmuv agbmurzgivaesu,gvl glunuzgmv glrxmbgkzg vt
gggggkliugovr gbmufg.t,gqmroabgmuzugbmutgquzu;gbmkaugvzfa,g.tgoklx
gggggwzvibriu,gquzugxzkqlgvagorxmbgbkg.uvzgvagvgxvzfulb”
gggggg--Vzrkabk,gIvlbj,gFRjg30j]

bmugUfwuzkzgIvzvivoovgqvagqklbgbkgfvzimgklgpkkb,gikfwoubuotgvzfu ,gvbgbmu
muv gkpgmragvzftjggBmugZkfvlgrlpvlbztgvoqvtagivzzru glkbgklotgvgfkzrkl,gv
aqkz ,gvl gvgamruo g(pkzgvagbkgvzfa,gavtagIriuzk,gbmutgquzugakgviisabkfu 
bkgmvnugbmufgvoqvtagkl,gbmvbgbmutgquzuglkgfkzugbzks.ougbkgbmufgbmvlgbmurz
kqlgorf.a):

ggggggggggggggg“Vzfvgulrfgfuf.zvgfrorbraguaaug rislbj”

.sb,gfkzuknuz,gprpbuulg vta’gwzknrarkl,gbkxubmuzgqrbmgvgiuzbvrlglsf.uzgkp
abvcua,gqmuzuqrbmgbkgpkzbrptgbmurzgivfw,garhbtgwksl agrlgqurxmbjggVl 
Fvzrsa’gako ruza,gov ulgvbgbmugavfugzvbu,gquzugrlszu gbkgfvzimgrlgkz uz
kpg.vbbougprnugouvxsuagrlgprnugmksza,gvl gakfubrfua,gswklgvltgszxulb
kiivarkl,garhj

Bmurzgfrorbvztg rairworlugqvagfsimgzs uzgbmvlgksza,gvl gviikz rlxot
wzk siu gfsimgxzuvbuzguppuibajggBmugtkslxuzgAirwrk,gzupkzfrlxgmragvzftgrl
Awvrl,gkz uzu gmragako ruzagbkguvbgabvl rlx,gvl glkbmrlxgbmvbgqvag zuabj
BmugyuuzgbmvbgqvagxrnulgvgOviu vufklrvlgako ruzgragfvznuooksaotgwvbgbk
bmragwszwkau,gqmk,grlgvlguhwu rbrklgkpgqvz,gqvagzuwzkvimu gpkzgmvnrlx
.uulgauulgsl uzgbmugzkkpgkpgvgmksau:gbmutgquzugakgrlszu gbkgmvz amrw
bmvb,goubgbmugquvbmuzg.ugqmvbgrbgqkso ,grbgqvagvgamvfugbkg.ugauulgsl uz
vltgkbmuzgiknuzgbmvlgbmugzkkpgkpgmuvnuljggQugamkso glkbgfvzimgkszgwukwou
nuztgpvzgvbgbmvbgzvbuj

Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,gFvziuoorlsa,ggvgfvlg.zu gswgrlgbmugZkfvlgqvza,
iszrksaotgk.auznuagbmugfvlluzgkpgbmugWvzbmrvlagvzfrlxgbmufauonua,gvl gbmu
zvbmuz,gpkzg.urlxgakg rppuzulbgpzkfgbmvbgkpgbmugZkfvlajgg“Bmutgmv ,”gavta
mu,g“vzfkszgakgqknulgvagbkgmvnugvoogbmugaivouagpvoogknuzgklugvlkbmuzgorcu
akgfvltgorbbougpuvbmuza;gqmrimg r glkbmrlxgmrl uzgbmugfkbrklgkpgbmug.k t,
vl gtubgquzugkpgasimgzuarabvliu,gbmvbgkszg vzbagmrbbrlxgswklgbmuf,gqkso 
zu.ksl ”g(bmuaugquzugbmugikvbagkpgfvrogkszgpkzupvbmuzagquzugakgiklabvlbot
qklbgbkgsau)jggVl grlgvlkbmuzgwoviu:g“bmutgmv ,”gavtagmu,g“abzklxgvl 
v.ougmkzaua,giknuzu gqrbmgbmricgbvllu gmr uagkpgouvbmuz,gvl gquzu
bmufauonuagvzfu g‘ivw-v-wru’gqrbmgxzuvbgwovbuagkpgrzkl,gakgvzbrprirvoot
kz uzu ,gbmvbgrlgvoogwvzbagkpgbmugorf.a,gqmrimgzuesrzu g.ul rlx,gbmut
oulbgbmufauonuagbkgbmugfkbrkljggKlugqkso gmvnugavr ,gbmvbgbmutgmv g.uul
fulgkpgrzkl;gmvnrlxgvzfkszgpkzgbmugmuv gakgluvbotgprbbu ,gvl gak
lvbszvootgzuwzuaulbrlxgbmugpkzfgkpgvgpviu,gbmvbgbmutgquzuglkqmuzu
nsoluzv.ou,gavnugvbgbqkgorbbougzksl gmkoua,gbmvbgxvnugbmufgvgorbbou
orxmb,gikzzuawkl rlxgqrbmgbmurzgutua,gvl giuzbvrlgafvoogimrlcagv.ksb
bmurzglkabzroa,gbmzksxmgqmrimgbmut,gqrbmgxzuvbg rpprisobt,g.zuvbmu ,”

gggggggggggggg“Pouhroragrl sibragvlrfvbszgovfrlvgfuf.zra,
gggggggggggggggMkzzr.roragnras;gizu vagarfsovizvgfknuzr
gggggggggggggggPuzzuv,gikxlvbkesugnrzkagawrzvzugfubvookj
gggggggggggggggWvzgnuabrbsaguesra:gpuzzvbvgpzklbugfrlvlbsz,
gggggggggggggggPuzzvbkaesugfknulb,gauiszrgnsoluzra,gvzfkaj”

ggggg[“Wovbuagkpgabuuogvzugwoviu gknuzgbmug.k t,gakgpouhr.ougbmvb,
ggggg zuv psogbkg.ugauul,gtksgqkso gbmrlcgbmuauglkbgornrlxgful,g.sb
gggggfknrlxgrfvxuajggBmugmkzauagvzugarfrovzotgvzfu ,gvl ,gauiszu gpzkf
gggggqksl a,gfknugbmurzgrzklgamkso uzaj”--Iovs ,gRlgZspj,grrjg358j]

‘Bragvg uaizrwbrklg zvqrlxgnuztgluvzgzuauf.orlxgbmuguesrwvxugkpgbmu
ful-vb-vzfagrlgPzvliu,gqrbmgbmurzg.vz u gmkzauajggWosbvzimgavta,gbmvb
 ufubzrsagivsau gbqkgikfwoubugasrbagkpgvzfkszgbkg.ugfv ugpkzgmrfauopgvl 
pkzgVoirfsa,gvgivwbvrlgkpgbmugxzuvbuabglkbugvl gvsbmkzrbtgv.ksbgmrf,gkp
arhgaikzugwksl agqurxmbguvim,gqmuzuvagbmugkz rlvztgasrbagqurxmu g.sbgmvop
vagfsimj




IMVWBUZgH

KPg.KKCA

Rgfvcuglkg ks.bg.sbgbmvbgRgkpbulgmvwwulgbkgawuvcgkpgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugfsim
.ubbuzgvl gfkzugbzsotgmvl ou g.tgbmkaugqmkgvzugfvabuzagkpgbmugbzv ujggTks
mvnugmuzugwszuotgvlguaavtgkpgftglvbszvogwvzba,gvl glkbgkpgbmkaugviesrzu :
vl gqmkunuzgamvoogivbimgfugbzrwwrlxgrlgrxlkzvliu,gqrooglkbgrlgvltgakzb
xubgbmug.ubbuzgkpgfu;gpkzgRgamkso g.ugnuztgslqroorlxgbkg.uikfu
zuawklar.ougbkgvlkbmuzgpkzgftgqzrbrlxa,gqmkgvfglkbgakgbkgftauop,glkz
avbrapru gqrbmgbmufjggQmkunuzgxkuagrlgesuabgkpgclkqou xu,goubgmrfgpram
pkzgrbgqmuzugrbgragbkg.ugpksl ;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgakgorbbougwzkpuaaj
Bmuaugvzugpvliruagkpgftgkql,g.tgqmrimgRg kglkbgwzubul gbkg raiknuzgbmrlxa
.sbgbkgovtgkwulgftauop;gbmutgfvt,gwuzv nulbszu,gklug vtg.ugclkqlgbkgfu,
kzgmvnugpkzfuzotg.uul,gviikz rlxgvagpkzbslugmvag.uulgv.ougbkg.zrlxgfugrl
woviugqmuzugbmutgmvnug.uulguhwovrlu ;g.sbgRgmvnugsbbuzotgpkzxkbbulgrb;
vl grpgRgvfgvgfvlgkpgakfugzuv rlx,gRgvfgvgfvlgkpglkgzubulbrkl;gakgbmvbgR
ivlgwzkfrauglkgiuzbvrlbt,gfkzugbmvlgbkgfvcugclkqlgbkgqmvbgwkrlbgbmu
clkqou xugRglkqgmvnugmvagzrauljggBmuzupkzu,goubglklugovtgabzuaagswklgbmu
fvbbuzgRgqzrbu,g.sbgswklgftgfubmk grlgqzrbrlxgrbjggOubgbmufgk.auznu,grl
qmvbgRg.kzzkq,grpgRgmvnugclkqlgmkqgbkgimkkaugqmvbgragwzkwuzgbkgzvraugkz
muowgbmugrlnulbrkl,gqmrimgragvoqvtagftgkqljggPkzgRgfvcugkbmuzagavtgpkz
fu,glkbg.upkzug.sbgvpbuzgfu,gqmvb,gurbmuzgpkzgqvlbgkpgovlxsvxugkzgqvlbgkp
aulau,gRgivllkbgftauopgakgquooguhwzuaajggRg kglkbglsf.uzgftg.kzzkqrlxa,
Rgqurxmgbmuf;gvl gmv gRg uarxlu gbkgzvraugbmurzgnvosug.tglsf.uz,gRgmv 
fv ugbmufgbqriugvagfvlt;gbmutgvzugvoo,gkzgqrbmrlgvgnuztgpuq,gakgpvfu gvl 
vlirulbgvsbmkza,gbmvbgbmutgauuf,gfubmrlca,gbmufauonuagaspprirulbotgbk
buoogqmkgbmutgvzu,gqrbmksbgxrnrlxgfugbmugbzks.oujggRlgzuvakla,
ikfwvzrakla,gvl gvzxsfulba,grpgRgbzvlawovlbgvltgrlbkgftgkqlgakro,gvl 
iklpksl gbmufgvfklxabgftgkql,gRgwszwkauotgikliuvogbmugvsbmkz,gbkgvqugbmu
bufuzrbtgkpgbmkaugwzuirwrbvbugiulakzagqmkgpvoogswklgvoogakzbagkp
qzrbrlxa,gwvzbrisovzotgbmugovbugklua,gkpgfulgtubgornrlx;gvl grlgbmu
nsoxvzgbklxsugqmrimgwsbagunuztgklugrlbkgvgivwvirbtgkpgizrbrirarlxgvl 
qmrimgauufgbkgiklnribgbmugikliuwbrklgvl g uarxlgvagnsoxvzgvoakjggRgqroo
mvnugbmufgxrnugWosbvzimgvgproorwgklgftglkau,gvl gzvrogvxvrlabgAuluivgqmul
bmutgbmrlcgbmutgzvrogvbgfujggRgfsabgamuobuzgftgkqlgquvcluaagsl uzgbmuau
xzuvbgzuwsbvbrklajggRgamvoogoknugvltgklugbmvbgivlgslwosfugfu,gbmvbgra,
.tgiouvzluaagkpgsl uzabvl rlxgvl gys xfulb,gvl g.tgbmugakoug rabrlibrkl
kpgbmugpkziugvl g.uvsbtgkpgbmug raikszaujggPkzgRgqmk,gpkzgqvlbgkpgfufkzt,
vfgvbgunuztgbszlgvbgvgokaagbk,gwricgbmufgksbgkpgbmurzglvbrklvogornuzt,gvf
tubgqraugulksxmgbkgclkq,g.tgbmugfuvaszugkpgftgkqlgv.rorbrua,gbmvbgftgakro
ragrlivwv.ougkpgwzk sirlxgvltgkpgbmkaugzrimgpokquzagbmvbgRgbmuzugprl 
xzkqrlx;gvl gbmvbgvoogbmugpzsrbagkpgftgkqlgxzkqbmgvzuglkbgqkzbmgvltgklu
kpgbmufjggPkzgbmra,grl uu ,gRgmko gftauopgzuawklar.ou;grpgRgxubgrlgftgkql
qvt;grpgbmuzug.ugvltgnvlrbtgvl g upuibgrlgftgqzrbrlxagqmrimgRg kglkbgkp
ftauopgwuziurnuglkzgivlg raiuzl,gqmulgwkrlbu gksbgbkgfug.tgvlkbmuz;gpkz
fvltgpvsobaguaivwugkszgutu,g.sbgbmugrlprzfrbtgkpgys xfulbgiklarabagrlglkb
.urlxgv.ougbkg raiuzlgbmuf,gqmulg.tgvlkbmuzgovr gkwulgbkgsajggClkqou xu
vl gbzsbmgfvtg.ugrlgsagqrbmksbgys xfulb,gvl gys xfulbgvoakgqrbmksbgbmuf;
.sbgbmugiklpuaarklgkpgrxlkzvliugragklugkpgbmugprluabgvl gaszuab
buabrfklruagkpgys xfulbgbmvbgRgclkqjggRgmvnuglkgkbmuzgkppriuzgbkgwsbgft
qzrbrlxagrlgzvlcgvl gprou,g.sbgklotgpkzbslujggVagbmrlxagikfugrlbkgft
muv ,gRgmuvwgbmufgklugswklgvlkbmuz;gakfubrfuagbmutgv nvliugrlgqmkou
.k rua,gakfubrfuagrlgarlxougproujggRgqkso gbmvbgunuztgklugamkso gauugft
lvbszvogvl gkz rlvztgwviu,grzzuxsovzgvagrbgra;gRgasppuzgftauopgbkgykxgkl
vbgftgkqlgzvbujggLurbmuzgvzugbmuaugas.yuibagqmrimgvgfvlgraglkbgwuzfrbbu 
bkg.ugrxlkzvlbgrl,gkzgivasvootgvl gvbgvgnulbszu,gbkg raikszaugkpjggR
ikso gqramgbkgmvnugvgfkzugwuzpuibgclkqou xugkpgbmrlxa,g.sbgRgqrooglkbg.st
rbgakg uvzgvagrbgikabajggFtg uarxlgragbkgwvaagknuzguvarot,gvl glkb
ov.kzrksaot,gbmugzufvrl uzgkpgftgorpu;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgRgqroo
is xuogftg.zvrlagv.ksb;glk,glkbgunulgclkqou xu,gkpgqmvbgnvosugakunuzj

Rgauuc,grlgbmugzuv rlxgkpg.kkca,gklotgbkgwouvaugftauopg.tgvlgmkluab
 rnuzarkl;gkz,grpgRgabs t,g‘bragpkzglkgkbmuzgairuliugbmvlgqmvbgbzuvbagkp
bmugclkqou xugkpgftauop,gvl grlabzsibagfugmkqgbkg rugvl gmkqgbkgornu
quooj

ggggggggggggggg“Mvagfusagv gfubvagas ubgkwkzbubguessaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Ftgmkzaugfsabgqkzcgviikz rlxgbkgftgabuwj”
gggggggggggggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grnj]

Rg kglkbg.rbugftglvroagv.ksbgbmug rpprisobruagRgfuubgqrbmgrlgftgzuv rlx;
vpbuzgvgimvzxugkzgbqk,gRgxrnugbmufgknuzjggAmkso gRgrlarabgswklgbmuf,gR
amkso g.kbmgokaugftauopgvl gbrfu;gpkzgRgmvnugvlgrfwvbrulbgsl uzabvl rlx,
bmvbgfsabg.ugavbrapru gvbgprzab:gqmvbgRg kglkbg raiuzlgvbgkliugrag.t
wuzarabuliugzul uzu gfkzugk.aiszujgRg kglkbmrlxgqrbmksbgxvrubt;
iklbrlsvbrklgvl gvgbkkgk.abrlvbugul uvnksz,g vzcula,gabswuprua,gvl gbrzua
ftgys xfulbjggFtgarxmbgragiklpksl u gvl g raarwvbu gqrbmgwkzrlx;gRgfsab
qrbm zvqgrb,gvl gzupuzgftg raiknuztgbkgluqgvbbufwba;gysabgva,gbkgys xu
zrxmbotgkpgbmugosabzugkpgaivzoub,gqugvzugbvsxmbgbkgwvaagbmugutugorxmbot
knuzgrb,gvl gvxvrlgbkgzslgrbgknuzgvbgaunuzvogas  ulgvl gzurbuzvbu 
xovliuajggRpgklug.kkcg kglkbgwouvaugfu,gRgbvcugvlkbmuz;gvl gRglunuz
fu  ougqrbmgvlt,g.sbgvbgasimgbrfuagvagRgvfgquvztgkpg krlxglkbmrlxj
Rgivzuglkbgfsimgpkzgluqgklua,g.uivsaugbmugko gauufgpsoouzgvl gabzklxuz;
lurbmuzg kgRgiklnuzaugfsimgqrbmgXzuucgvsbmkza,g.uivsaugftgys xfulbgivllkb
 kgrbagqkzcgqrbmgrfwuzpuibgrlbuoorxuliugkpgbmugfvbuzrvoj

Vfklxabg.kkcagbmvbgvzugarfwotgwouvavlb,gkpgbmugfk uzla,g.kiiviirk’a
 uivfuzkl,gZv.uovra,gvl gbmug.varvgkpgYkmvlluagAuisl sag(rpgbmkaugfvtg.u
zvlxu gsl uzgbmugbrbou)gvzugqkzbmgzuv rlxgpkzgvfsaufulbjggVagbkgbmu
Vfv ra,gvl gasimgcrl gkpgabspp,gbmutgmv glkbgbmugizu rbgkpgvzzuabrlxgunul
ftgimro mkk jggVl gRgqroo,gfkzuknuz,gavt,gqmubmuzg.ko otgkzgzvamot,gbmvb
bmragko ,gmuvntgaksogkpgfrlugraglkqglkgoklxuzgbricou gqrbmgVzrkabk,glk,
lkzgqrbmgbmugqkzbmtgKnr ;gmragpvirorbtgvl grlnulbrkla,gqrbmgqmrimgRgqva
pkzfuzotgakgzvnramu ,gvzuglkqgkpglkgfkzugzuoram,gvl gRgivlgmvz otgmvnu
bmugwvbruliugbkgzuv gbmufjggRgawuvcgftgkwrlrklgpzuuotgkpgvoogbmrlxa,gunul
kpgbmkaugbmvb,gwuzmvwa,guhiuu gftgivwvirbt,gvl gbmvbgRg kglkbgikliurnugbk
.u,grlgvltgqrau,gsl uzgftgyszra ribrkljggVl ,gviikz rlxot,gbmugys xfulbgR
 uornuz,gragbkgamkqgbmugfuvaszugkpgftgkqlgarxmb,gvl glkbgkpgbmugbmrlxagR
fvcugakg.ko gbkgizrbriraujggQmulgRgprl gftauopg raxsabu gqrbmgWovbk’a
‘Vhrkimsa’,gvagqrbmgvgqkzc,gqrbmg sugzuawuibgbkgasimgvlgvsbmkzg.ugrb
awkcul,gqrbmksbgpkziu,gftgys xfulbg kuaglkbg.uorunugrbauop:grbgraglkbgak
vzzkxvlbgvagbkgkwwkaugbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgakgfvltgkbmuzgpvfksagys xfulbagkp
vlbresrbt,gqmrimgrbgiklar uzagvagrbagbsbkzagvl gfvabuza,gvl gqrbmgqmkfgrb
ragzvbmuzgiklbulbgbkguzz;grlgasimgvgivau,grbgikl uflagrbauopgurbmuzgbk
abkwgvbgbmugksbqvz g.vzc,glkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgwulubzvbugbkgbmugmuvzb,gkzgbk
iklar uzgrbg.tgakzbrugpvoaugorxmbjggRbgragiklbulbgqrbmgklotgauiszrlx
rbauopgpzkfgbzks.ougvl g rakz uz;gvagbkgrbagkqlgquvcluaa,grbgpzvlcot
viclkqou xuagvl giklpuaauagrbjggRbgbmrlcagrbgxrnuagvgysabgrlbuzwzubvbrkl
bkgbmugvwwuvzvliuag.tgrbagikliuwbrklagwzuaulbu gbkgrb;g.sbgbmutgvzugquvc
vl grfwuzpuibjggFkabgkpgbmugpv.ouagkpgVUakwgmvnug rnuzaugaulauagvl 
fuvlrlxa,gkpgqmrimgbmugftbmkokxrabagimkaugakfugklugbmvbgesv zvbuagquoogbk
bmugpv.ou;g.sb,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,g‘brag.sbgbmugprzabgpviugbmvbgwzuaulba
rbauopgvl gragaswuzprirvogklot;gbmuzugtubgzufvrlgkbmuzagfkzugnrnr ,
uaaulbrvo,gvl gwzkpksl ,grlbkgqmrimgbmutgmvnuglkbg.uulgv.ougbkgwulubzvbu;
vl gysabgakg‘bragqrbmgfuj

.sb,gbkgwszasugbmug.sarluaagkpgbmraguaavt,gRgmvnugvoqvtagbmksxmbgbmvb,grl
wkuat,gNrzxro,gOsizubrsa,gIvbsoosa,gvl gMkzviug.tgfvltg uxzuuaguhiuogbmu
zuab;gvl garxlvoot,gNrzxrogrlgmragXukzxria,gqmrimgRgokkcgswklgvagbmugfkab
viikfworamu gwruiugrlgwkubzt;gvl grlgikfwvzraklgkpgqmrimgvgfvlgfvtguvarot
 raiuzlgbmvbgbmuzugvzugakfugwoviuagrlgmragVUlur a,gbkgqmrimgbmugvsbmkz
qkso gmvnugxrnulgvgorbbougfkzugkpgbmugprou,gmv gmugmv gouraszu:gvl gbmu
prpbmg.kkcgkpgmragVUlur agauufagbkgfugbmugfkabgwuzpuibjggRgvoakgoknu
Osivl,gvl gqroorlxotgzuv gmrf,glkbgakgfsimgpkzgmragabtou,gvagpkzgmragkql
qkzbm,gvl gbmugbzsbmgvl gakor rbtgkpgmragkwrlrklagvl gys xfulbajggVagpkz
xkk gBuzuliu,gbmugzuprlu guouxvliugvl gxzviugkpgbmugOvbrlgbklxsu,gRgprl 
mrfgv frzv.ougrlgmragnrnr gzuwzuaulbvbrklgkpgkszgfvlluzagvl gbmu
fknufulbagkpgbmugakso;gkszgvibrklagbmzkqgfugvbgunuztgbszlgswklgmrf;gvl 
Rgivllkbgzuv gmrfgakgkpbulgbmvbgRg kglkbgabroog raiknuzgakfugluqgxzviu
vl g.uvsbtjggAsimgvagornu gluvzgNrzxro’agbrfugikfwovrlu gbmvbgakfugamkso 
ikfwvzugOsizubrsagbkgmrfjggRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmugikfwvzraklgra,grl
bzsbm,gnuztgsluesvo:gvg.uorupgbmvb,glunuzbmuouaa,gRgmvnugfsimgv kgbk
vaaszugftauopgrl,gqmulgRgikfugswklgakfuguhiuooulbgwvaavxugrlgOsizubrsaj
.sbgrpgbmutgquzugakgvlxztgvbgbmragikfwvzrakl,gqmvbgqkso gbmutgavtgbkgbmu
.zsbramgvl g.vz.vzksagabswr rbtgkpgbmkaugqmk,glkqv vta,gikfwvzugmrfgqrbm
Vzrkabk?ggQkso glkbgVzrkabkgmrfauopgavt?

ggggggggggggggg“Kgauiosfgrlarwrulagubgrlpriubsf!”

gggggggggg[“Kgabswr gvl gbvabuouaagvxuj”--Ivbsoosa,ghorrrjg8j]

Rgbmrlcgbmugvlirulbagmv gfkzugzuvaklgbkg.ugvlxztgqrbmgbmkaugqmkgikfwvzu 
WovsbsagqrbmgBuzuliu,gbmksxmgfsimgluvzuzgbmugfvzc,gbmvlgOsizubrsagqrbm
NrzxrojggRbgfvcuagfsimgpkzgbmuguabrfvbrklgvl gwzupuzuliugkpgBuzuliu,gbmvb
bmugpvbmuzgkpgZkfvlguokesuliugmvagmrfgakgkpbul,gvl gvoklugkpgmragiovaa,
rlgmragfksbm;gvl gbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgbmug.uabgys xugkpgZkfvlgwkuba
--[Mkzviu,g ugVzbjggWkubriv,g279j]--mvagwvaau gswklgmragikfwvlrkljggR
mvnugkpbulgk.auznu gbmvbgbmkaugkpgkszgbrfua,gqmkgbvcugswklgbmufgbkgqzrbu
ikfu ruag(rlgrfrbvbrklgkpgbmugRbvorvla,gqmkgvzugmvwwtgulksxmgrlgbmvbgqvt
kpgqzrbrlx),gbvcugbmzuugkzgpkszgwokbagkpgbmkaugkpgWovsbsagkzgBuzuliugbk
fvcugklugkpgbmurzgkql,gvl g,gizkq gprnugkzgarhgkpg.kiiviirk’aglknuoagrlbk
klugarlxougikfu tjggBmvbgqmrimgfvcuagbmufgakgokv gbmufauonuagqrbmgfvbbuz
ragbmug rppr uliugbmutgmvnugkpg.urlxgv.ougbkgaswwkzbgbmufauonuagqrbm
bmurzgkqlgabzulxbmjggBmutgfsabgprl gksbgakfubmrlxgbkgouvlgbk;gvl glkb
mvnrlxgkpgbmurzgkqlgabsppgqmuzuqrbmgbkgulbuzbvrlgsa,gbmutg.zrlxgrlgbmu
abkztgbkgaswwotgbmug upuibgkpgovlxsvxujggRbgragesrbugkbmuzqraugqrbmgft
vsbmkz;gbmuguouxvliugvl gwuzpuibrklgkpgmragqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgfvcuagsagokau
bmugvwwubrbugkpgmragwokb;gmragzuprlu gxzviugvl guouxvliugkpg ribrkl
unuztqmuzugkiiswtgsa:gmugragakgwouvavlbgbmzksxmksb,

ggggggggggggggg“Oresr sa,gwszkesugarfroorfsagvflr,”

ggggggggggggggg[“Oresr ,gvl gorcuabgbmugwszugzrnuzj”
gggggggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grrjga,g120j]

vl gakgwkaauaauagbmugaksogqrbmgmragxzviuagbmvbgqugpkzxubgbmkaugkpgmra
pv.oujggBmragavfugiklar uzvbrklgivzzruagfugpszbmuz:ggRgk.auznugbmvbgbmu
.uabgkpgbmugvlirulbgwkubagmvnugvnkr u gvppuibvbrklgvl gbmugmslbrlxgvpbuz,
lkbgklotgpvlbvabrigAwvlramgvl gWubzvzimriguounvbrkla,g.sbgunulgbmugakpbuz
vl gfkzugxulbougbksimua,gqmrimgvzugbmugkzlvfulbgkpgvoogasiiuu rlxgwkuatj
Vl gtubgbmuzugraglkgxkk gys xfulbgbmvbgqroogikl uflgbmragrlgbmugvlirulba,
vl gbmvbg kuaglkbgrlikfwvzv.otgfkzugv frzugbmuguesvogwkoram,gvl gbmvb
wuzwubsvogaquubluaagvl gpokszramrlxg.uvsbtgkpgIvbsoosa’aguwrxzvfa,gbmvl
voogbmugabrlxagqrbmgqmrimgFvzbrvogvzfagbmugbvroagkpgmrajggBmragrag.tgbmu
avfugzuvaklgbmvbgRgxvnug.upkzu,gvl gvagFvzbrvogavtagkpgmrfauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Frlsagroorgrlxulrkgov.kzvl sfgpsrb,
gggggggggggggggrlgisysagokisfgfvbuzrvgasiiuaauzvb:”

ggggg[“Mugmv gbmugouaagpkzgmragqrbgbkg kgbmvbgbmugas.yuibgrbauop
gggggaswworu gqmvbgqvagluiuaavztj”--Fvzbrvo,gwzvupjggv gor.jgnrrrj]

Bmugprzab,gqrbmksbg.urlxgfknu ,gkzgqrbmksbgxubbrlxgvlxzt,gfvcugbmufauonua
aspprirulbotgpuob;gbmutgmvnugfvbbuzgulksxmgkpgovsxmbuzgbmzksxmksb,gbmut
luu glkbgbricougbmufauonua;gbmugkbmuzagmvnugluu gkpgpkzurxlgvaarabvliu;
vagbmutgmvnugbmugouaagqrbgbmutgfsabgmvnugbmugfkzug.k t;gbmutgfkslbgkl
mkzau.vic,g.uivsaugbmutgvzuglkbgv.ougbkgabvl gklgbmurzgkqlgouxajggVagrl
kszg.vooa,gbmkaugfuvlgpuookqagqmkgbuvimgbkg vliu,glkbg.urlxgv.ougbk
zuwzuaulbgbmugwzuauliugvl g rxlrbtgkpgkszglk.ouaau,gvzugpvrlgbkgwsb
bmufauonuagpkzqvz gqrbmg vlxuzksagysfwrlx,gvl gkbmuzgabzvlxugfkbrklagvl 
bsf.ouzagbzrica;gvl gbmugov ruagvzugouaagwsbgbkgrbgrlg vliu;gqmuzugbmuzu
vzugnvzrksagikswuua,gimvlxua,gvl gesricgfkbrklagkpg.k t,gbmvlgrlgakfu
kbmuzgkpgvgfkzugau vbugcrl ,gqmuzugbmutgvzugklotgbkgfknugvglvbszvogwviu,
vl gbkgzuwzuaulbgbmurzgkz rlvztgxzviugvl gwzuauliujggVl gakgRgmvnugauul
xkk g zkooa,gqmulgrlgbmurzgkqlgunuzt vtgiokbmua,gvl gqrbmgbmugavfugpviu
bmutgvoqvtagquvz,gxrnugsagvoogbmugwouvaszugkpgbmurzgvzb,gqmulgbmurz
vwwzulbriua,glkbgtubgvzzrnu gvbgasimgvgwrbimgkpgwuzpuibrkl,gvzugpvrlgbk
fuvogbmurzgpviua,gwsbgbmufauonuagrlbkgzr risoksag raxsraua,gvl gfvcugv
msl zu gxzkbuaesugpviuagbkgxrnugsagqmuzuvbgbkgovsxmjggBmragikliuwbrklgkp
frlugraglkqmuzugfkzug ufklabzv.ougbmvlgrlgikfwvzrlxgbmugVUlur gqrbm
Kzovl kgPszrkak;gkpgqmrimgqugauugbmugprzab,g.tg rlbgkpgqrlx,gpotrlxgrlgv
.zvnugvl gokpbtgwoviu,gvl gvoqvtagpkookqrlxgmragwkrlb:gbmugovbbuz,
posbbuzrlxgvl gmkwwrlxgpzkfgbvougbkgbvou,gvagpzkfg.zvlimgbkg.zvlim,glkb
 vzrlxgbkgbzsabgmragqrlxag.sbgrlgnuztgamkzbgporxmba,gvl gwuzimrlxgvb
unuztgbszl,gouabgmrag.zuvbmgvl gabzulxbmgamkso gpvroj

gggggggggggggggggggg“Uhiszasaesug.zunuagbulbvbj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Vl gmugvbbufwbagamkzbguhiszarklaj”
gggggggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxria,grnjgg194j]

Bmuau,gbmul,gvagbkgbmragakzbgkpgas.yuiba,gvzugbmugvsbmkzagbmvbg.uab
wouvaugfuj

Vagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagftgkbmuzgzuv rlx,gbmvbgfrhuagvgorbbougfkzugwzkprb
qrbmgbmugwouvaszu,gvl gqmuliugRgouvzlgmkqgbkgfvzamvogftgkwrlrklagvl 
ikl rbrkla,gbmug.kkcagbmvbgauznugfugbkgbmragwszwkaugvzugWosbvzim,garliu
mugmvag.uulgbzvlaovbu grlbkgPzulim,gvl gAuluivjgg.kbmgkpgbmuaugmvnugbmra
lkbv.ougiklnulruliugasrbu gbkgftgmsfksz,gbmvbgbmugclkqou xugRgbmuzugauuc
rag raikszau grlgokkaugwruiua,gbmvbg kglkbgzuesrzugpzkfgfugvltgbzks.ougkp
zuv rlxgoklx,gkpgqmrimgRgvfgrlivwv.oujggAsimgvzugbmugfrlkzgqkzcagkpgbmu
przabgvl gbmuguwrabouagkpgbmugovbbuz,gqmrimgvzugbmug.uabgvl gfkab
wzkprbrlxgkpgvoogbmurzgqzrbrlxajgg‘Braglkgxzuvbgvbbufwbgbkgbvcugklugkp
bmufgrlgmvl ,gvl gRgxrnugknuzgvbgwouvaszu;gpkzgbmutgmvnuglkgauesuliugkz
 uwul uliugswklgklugvlkbmuzjggBmuaugvsbmkza,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gikliszgrl
saupsogvl gbzsugkwrlrkla;gvl gbmuzugragbmragwvzvoouog.ubqrhbgbmuf,gbmvb
pkzbslug.zksxmbgbmufgrlbkgbmugqkzo gv.ksbgbmugavfugiulbszt:gbmutgquzu
.kbmgbsbkzagbkgbqkgZkfvlgufwuzkza:g.kbmgaksxmbgksbgpzkfgpkzurxl
ikslbzrua:g.kbmgzrimgvl g.kbmgxzuvbgfuljggBmurzgrlabzsibrklgragbmugizuvf
kpgwmrokakwmt,gvl g uornuzu gvpbuzgvgwovrlgvl gwuzbrlulbgfvlluzj
Wosbvzimgragfkzugslrpkzfgvl giklabvlb;gAuluivgfkzugnvzrksagvl gqvnrlx:
bmugovabgbkrou gvl g.ulbgmragqmkougabzulxbmgbkgpkzbrptgnrzbsugvxvrlab
quvcluaa,gpuvz,gvl gnrirksagvwwubrbua;gbmugkbmuzgauufagfkzugbkgaorxmb
bmurzgwkquz,gvl gbkg ra vrlgbkgvobuzgmragwviugvl gbkgabvl gswklgmra
xsvz jggWosbvzim’agkwrlrklagvzugWovbklri,gxulbou,gvl gviikffk vbu gbk
irnrogakirubt;gbmkaugkpgbmugkbmuzgvzugAbkrivogvl gUwriszuvl,gfkzugzufkbu
pzkfgbmugikffklgsau,g.sb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gfkzugrl rnr svootgikffk rksagvl 
fkzugprzfjggAuluivgauufagbkgouvlgvgorbbougbkgbmugbtzvlltgkpgbmugufwuzkza
kpgmragbrfu,gvl gklotgauufa;gpkzgRgbvcugrbgpkzgiuzbvrlgbmvbgmugawuvca
vxvrlabgmragys xfulbgqmulgmugikl uflagbmugvibrklgkpgbmugxuluzksa
fsz uzuzagkpgIvuavzjggWosbvzimgragpzvlcgbmzksxmksb:gAuluivgv.ksl agqrbm
.zracgbksimuagvl gavoorua;gWosbvzimgqrbmgbmrlxagbmvbgqvzfgvl gfknugtks
fkzu;gbmragiklbulbagvl gwvtagtksg.ubbuz:gmugxsr uagsa,gbmugkbmuzgwsamua
sagklj

VagbkgIriuzk,gmragqkzcagbmvbgvzugfkabgsaupsogbkgftg uarxlgvzugbmutgbmvb
bzuvbgkpgfvlluzagvl gzsouagkpgkszgorpujgg.sbg.ko otgbkgiklpuaagbmugbzsbm
(pkzgarliugklugmvagwvaau gbmug.vzzruzagkpgrfws uliu,gbmuzugraglkg.zr ou),
mragqvtgkpgqzrbrlxgvwwuvzagbkgfugluxorxulbgvl gslrlnrbrlx:gpkzgmra
wzupviua,g uprlrbrkla,g rnrarkla,gvl gubtfkokxruagbvcugswgbmugxzuvbuab
wvzbgkpgmragqkzc:gqmvbunuzgbmuzugragkpgorpugvl gfvzzkqgragafkbmuzu gvl 
okabgrlgbmugoklxgwzuwvzvbrkljggQmulgRgmvnugawulbgvlgmkszgrlgzuv rlxgmrf,
qmrimgragvgxzuvbg uvogpkzgfu,gvl gbztgbkgzuikoouibgqmvbgRgmvnugbmuliu
uhbzvibu gkpgysriugvl gas.abvliu,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgRgprl glkbmrlxg.sb
qrl ;gpkzgmugraglkbgtubgikfugbkgbmugvzxsfulbagbmvbgauznugbkgmragwszwkau,
vl gbkgbmugzuvaklagbmvbgwzkwuzotgmuowgbkgpkzfgbmugclkbgRgauucjggPkzgfu,
qmkgklotg uarzugbkg.uikfugfkzugqrau,glkbgfkzugouvzlu gkzguokesulb,gbmuau
okxrivogvl gVzrabkbuorvlg rawkarbrklagkpgwvzbagvzugkpglkgsaujggRgqkso 
mvnugvgfvlg.uxrlgqrbmgbmugfvrlgwzkwkarbrkljggRgclkqgquoogulksxmgqmvb
 uvbmgvl gwouvaszugvzu;goubglkgfvlgxrnugmrfauopgbmugbzks.ougbkgvlvbkfrau
bmufgbkgfujggRgokkcgpkzgxkk gvl gakor gzuvakla,gvbgbmugprzabg vam,gbk
rlabzsibgfugmkqgbkgabvl gbmurzgamkic,gpkzgqmrimgwszwkauglurbmuz
xzvffvbrivogas.boubruaglkzgbmugesvrlbgiklbuhbszugkpgqkz agvl 
vzxsfulbvbrklagvzugkpgvltgsaugvbgvoojggRgvfgpkzg raikszauagbmvbgxrnugbmu
przabgimvzxugrlbkgbmugmuvzbgkpgbmugzu ks.b;gmragovlxsramgv.ksbgbmu
as.yuib;gbmutgvzugwzkwuzgpkzgbmugaimkkoa,gpkzgbmug.vz,gvl gpkzgbmu
wsowrb,gqmuzugqugmvnugouraszugbkglk ,gvl gfvtgvqvcu,gvgesvzbuzgkpgvlgmksz
vpbuz,gbrfugulksxmgbkgprl gvxvrlgbmugbmzuv gkpgbmug raikszaujggRbgra
luiuaavztgbkgawuvcgvpbuzgbmragfvlluzgbkgys xua,gqmkfgvgfvlgmvagvg uarxl
bkgxvrlgknuz,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx,gbkgimro zulgvl gikffklgwukwou,gbkgqmkfgv
fvlgfsabgavtgvoo,gvl gauugqmvbgqroogikfugkpgrbjggRgqkso glkbgmvnugvl
vsbmkzgfvcugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgzul uzgfugvbbulbrnu:gkzgbmvbgmugamkso gizt
ksbgprpbtgbrfuagKtud!ggvagbmugmuzvo ag kjggBmugZkfvla,grlgbmurzgzuorxrksa
uhuziraua,g.uxvlgqrbmg‘Mkigvxu’gvagqugrlgkszag kgqrbmg‘Aszasfgikz v’;
bmuaugvzugakgfvltgqkz agokabgbkgfu:gRgikfugvozuv tgpsootgwzuwvzu gpzkfgft
imvf.uzjggRgluu glkgvooszufulb,glkgrlnrbvbrkl,glkgavsiu;gRguvbgbmugfuvb
zvq,gakgbmvb,grlabuv gkpgqmubbrlxgftgvwwubrbug.tgbmuaugwzuwvzvbrnua,gbmut
brzugvl gwvoogrbjggQroogbmugoriuliugkpgbmugbrfuguhisaugftgavizrouxrksa
.ko luaagrpgRgiulaszugbmug rvokxrafgkpgWovbkgmrfauopgvagvoakg soogvl 
muvnt,gbkkgfsimgabrporlxgbmugfvbbuz,gvl govfulbgakgfsimgbrfugokabg.tgv
fvl,gqmkgmv gakgfvltg.ubbuzgbmrlxagbkgavt,grlgakgfvltgoklxgvl gluu ouaa
wzuorfrlvztgrlbuzokisbrkla?ggFtgrxlkzvliugqroog.ubbuzguhisaugfugrlgbmvb
Rgsl uzabvl glkbgXzuucgakgquoogvagbkg raiuzlgbmug.uvsbtgkpgmragovlxsvxuj
Rgxuluzvootgimkkaug.kkcagbmvbgsaugairuliua,glkbgasimgvagklotgouv gbk
bmufjggBmugbqkgprzab,gvl gWorlt,gvl gbmurzgorcu,gmvnuglkbmrlxgkpgbmragMki
vxu;gbmutgqroogmvnugbkg kgqrbmgfulgvozuv tgrlabzsibu ;gkzgrpgbmutgmvnu,
‘bragvgas.abvlbrvogMkigvxu;gvl gbmvbgmvagvg.k tg.tgrbauopjggRgvoak
 uorxmbgrlgzuv rlxgbmugUwrabouagbkgVbbrisa,glkbgklotg.uivsaugbmutgiklbvrl
vgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmugmrabkztgvl gvppvrzagkpgmragbrfu,g.sbgfsimgfkzu
.uivsaugRgbmuzurlg raiknuzgfsimgkpgmragkqlgwzrnvbugmsfksza;gpkzgRgmvnugv
arlxsovzgiszrkarbt,gvagRgmvnugavr guoauqmuzu,gbkgwztgrlbkgbmugaksoagvl 
bmuglvbszvogvl gbzsugkwrlrklagkpgbmugvsbmkza,gqrbmgqmkfgRgiklnuzaujggV
fvlgfvtgrl uu gys xugkpgbmurzgwvzba,g.sbglkbgkpgbmurzgfvlluzaglkzgkp
bmufauonua,g.tgbmugqzrbrlxagbmutguhmr.rbgswklgbmugbmuvbzugkpgbmugqkzo j
Rgmvnugvgbmksavl gbrfuagovfulbu gbmugokaagkpgbmugbzuvbraug.zsbsagqzkbu
swklgNrzbsu,gpkzgrbgragquoogbkgouvzlgbmugbmukztgpzkfgbmkaugqmkg.uabgclkq
bmugwzvibriuj

.sbgauurlxgbmugfvbbuzgwzuvimu gvl gbmugwzuvimuzgvzug rppuzulbgbmrlxa,
Rgqkso gvagqroorlxotgauug.zsbsagrlgWosbvzim,gvagrlgvg.kkcgkpgmragkqlj
Rgqkso gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg.ugiuzbvrlotgrlpkzfu gkpgbmugiklpuzuliugmugmv 
rlgmragbulbgqrbmgakfugwvzbrisovzgpzrul agkpgmragbmuglrxmbg.upkzugv
.vbbou,gbmvlgkpgbmugmvzvlxsugmugfv ugbmugluhbg vtgbkgmragvzft;gvl gkp
qmvbgmug r grlgmragiokaubgvl gmragimvf.uz,gbmvlgqmvbgmug r grlgbmugws.ori
aesvzugvl grlgbmugaulvbujggVagbkgIriuzk,gRgvfgkpgbmugikffklgkwrlrklgbmvb,
ouvzlrlxguhiuwbu ,gmugmv glkgxzuvbglvbszvoguhiuoouliujggMugqvagvgxkk 
irbrdul,gkpgvlgvppv.ouglvbszu,gvagvoogpvb,gmuvntgful,gasimgvagmugqva,
sasvootgvzu;g.sbgxrnulgbkguvau,gvl gmv ,grlgbzsbm,gvgfrxmbtgamvzugkp
nvlrbtgvl gvf.rbrkljggLurbmuzg kgRgclkqgmkqgbkguhisaugmrfgpkzgbmrlcrlx
mragwkubztgprbgbkg.ugws.oramu ;g‘braglkgxzuvbgrfwuzpuibrklgbkgfvcugroo
nuzaua,g.sbgrbgragvlgrfwuzpuibrklglkbgbkg.ugv.ougbkgys xugmkqgslqkzbmt
mragnuzauagquzugkpgbmugxokztgkpgmraglvfujggPkzgqmvbgikliuzlagmra
uokesuliu,gbmvbgragbkbvootgksbgkpgvoogikfwvzrakl,gvl gRg.uorunugrbgqroo
lunuzg.uguesvoou jggBmugtkslxuzgIriuzk,gqmkgzuauf.ou gmragpvbmuzgrl
lkbmrlxg.sbgrlglvfu,gqmroabgikffvl rlxgrlgVarv,gmv gaunuzvogabzvlxuzagklu
 vtgvbgmragbv.ou,gvl ,gvfklxabgbmugzuab,gIuabrsagauvbu gvbgbmugokquzgul ,
vagfulgkpbulgrlbzs ugbkgbmugkwulgbv.ouagkpgbmugxzuvbjggIriuzkgvacu gklu
kpgmragwukwougqmkgbmvbgfvlgqva,gqmkgwzuaulbotgbko gmrfgmraglvfu;g.sbgmu,
vagklugqmkgmv gmragbmksxmbagbvculgswgqrbmgakfubmrlxguoau,gvl gqmkgmv 
pkzxkbbulgbmugvlaquzgfv ugmrf,gvacrlxgbmzuugkzgpkszgbrfua,gknuzgvl gknuz
vxvrl;gbmugavfugesuabrkl,gbmugpuookq,gbkg uornuzgmrfauopgpzkfgakgfvlt
vlaquzagvl gbkgfvcugmrfgclkqgmrfg.tgakfugwvzbrisovzgirzisfabvliu;g“‘bra
bmvbgIuabrsa,”gavr gmu,g“kpgqmkfgrbgqvagbko gtks,gbmvbgmugfvcuaglkgxzuvb
viikslbgkpgtkszgpvbmuz’aguokesuliugrlgikfwvzraklgkpgmragkqlj”ggVbgqmrim
Iriuzk,g.urlxgas  ulotglubbou ,gikffvl u gwkkzgIuabrsagwzuaulbotgbkg.u
aurdu ,gvl givsau gmrfgbkg.ugnuztgquoogqmrwwu grlgmragkqlgwzuauliu;gv
nuztg raikszbuksagulbuzbvrluz!ggTubgunulgvfklxabgbmkau,gqmk,gvoogbmrlxa
iklar uzu ,gmvnugzuwsbu gmra,guokesuliugrlikfwvzv.ou,gbmuzugmvnug.uul
akfu,gqmkgmvnuglkbgabsicgbkgk.auznugakfugpvsobagrlgrb:gvagbmvbgxzuvb
.zsbsagmragpzrul ,gpkzguhvfwou,gqmkgavr g‘bqvagvg.zkculgvl gpuu.ou
uokesuliu,g‘ptvibvfgubguosf.uf’jggBmugkzvbkzagvoak,gluvzuabgbkgbmugvxu
qmuzurlgmugornu ,gzuwzumul u grlgmrfgbmugivzugmugmv gkpgvgiuzbvrlgoklx
iv uliugrlgmragwuzrk a,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbkkcglkbriugkpgbmuaugqkz a,
‘uaaugnr uvbsz’,gqmrimgmugbmuzugakgkpbulgfvcuagsaugkpjggPkzgftgwvzb,gR
fkzugvwwzknugkpgvgamkzbuzgabtou,gvl gbmvbgikfuagfkzugzksl otgkppjggMu
 kua,gbmksxm,gakfubrfuagamsppougmragwvzbagfkzug.zracotgbkxubmuz,g.sbg‘bra
nuztgauo kfjggRgmvnugftauopgbvculglkbriugkpgbmragklugwvaavxu:

gggggggggggggg“Uxkgnuzkgfugfrlsag rsgaulufgfvoouf,
gggggggggggggggesvfguaaugauluf,gvlbuesvfguaaufj”

ggggg[“Rgmv gzvbmuzg.ugko gvg.zrupgbrfu,gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugko gvxuj
ggggg--“Iriuzk,g ugAuluibj,gijg10j]

Bmugmrabkzrvlagvzugftgzrxmbg.voo,gpkzgbmutgvzugwouvavlbgvl guvat,gvl 
qmuzugfvl,grlgxuluzvo,gbmugclkqou xugkpgqmkfgRgmslbgvpbuz,gvwwuvzagfkzu
nrnr otgvl gulbrzugbmvlgvltqmuzuguoau:

ggggg[Bmuguvaruabgkpgftgvfsaufulba,gbmugzrxmbg.voogvbgbullrag.urlxgbmvb
gggggqmrimgikfrlxgbkgbmugwovtuzgpzkfgbmugzrxmbgmvl ,gragfsimguvaruz
gggggwovtu gqrbmj--Ikabuj]

bmugnvzrubtgvl gbzsbmgkpgmragrlbuzlvogesvorbrua,grlgxzkaagvl gwruiufuvo,
bmug rnuzarbtgkpgfuvlag.tgqmrimgmugragslrbu gvl gclrb,gvl gbmugviir ulba
bmvbgbmzuvbulgmrfjggLkqgbmkaugbmvbgqzrbugornua,g.tgzuvaklgbmutgrlarab
fkzugswklgikslauoagbmvlgunulba,gfkzugswklgqmvbgavooruagpzkfgqrbmrl,gbmvl
swklgqmvbgmvwwulagqrbmksb,gvzugbmugfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgftgzuv rlx;gvl ,
bmuzupkzu,gv.knugvoogkbmuza,gWosbvzimgragbmugfvlgpkzgfujggRgvfgnuztgakzzt
qugmvnuglkbgvg kdulgOvuzbrr,--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gqmkgqzkbugbmugOrnuagkp
bmugWmrokakwmuza]--kzgbmvbgmugqvaglkbgpszbmuzguhbul u ;gpkzgRgvfguesvoot
iszrksagbkgclkqgbmugornuagvl gpkzbsluagkpgbmuaugxzuvbgrlabzsibkzagkpgbmu
qkzo ,gvagbkgclkqgbmug rnuzarbruagkpgbmurzg kibzrluagvl gkwrlrklajggRl
bmragcrl gkpgabs tgkpgmrabkzrua,gvgfvlgfsabgbsf.ougknuz,gqrbmksb
 rabrlibrkl,gvoogakzbagkpgvsbmkza,gko gvl gluq,gPzulimgkzgpkzurxl,gbmuzu
bkgclkqgbmugbmrlxagkpgqmrimgbmutgnvzrksaotgbzuvbjgg.sbgIvuavz,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gwvzbrisovzotg uauznuagbkg.ugabs ru ,glkbgpkzgbmugclkqou xugkp
bmugmrabkztgklot,g.sbgpkzgmrfauop,gakgxzuvbgvlguhiuoouliugvl gwuzpuibrkl
mugmvagv.knugvoogbmugzuab,gbmksxmgAvoosabg.ugklugkpgbmuglsf.uzjggRl
uvzluab,gRgzuv gbmragvsbmkzgqrbmgfkzugzunuzuliugvl gzuawuibgbmvlgra
sasvootgvookqu gbkgmsfvlgqzrbrlxa;gklugqmrougiklar uzrlxgmrfgrlgmra
wuzakl,g.tgmragvibrklagvl gfrzvisoksagxzuvbluaa,gvl gvlkbmuzgrlgbmu
wszrbtgvl grlrfrbv.ougwkoramgkpgmragovlxsvxu,gqmuzurlgmuglkbgklotguhiuoa
voogkbmuzgmrabkzrvla,gvagIriuzkgiklpuaaua,gg.sb,gwuzv nulbszu,gunul
Iriuzkgmrfauop;gawuvcrlxgkpgmragulufruagqrbmgakgfsimgarliuzrbtgrlgmra
ys xfulb,gbmvb,gbmugpvoaugikokszagqrbmgqmrimgmugabzrnuagbkgwvoorvbugmra
unrogivsau,gvl gbmugkz szugkpgmragwuabroulbgvf.rbrklguhiuwbu ,gRgbmrlc
bmuzugraglkgpvsobgbkg.ugk.yuibu gvxvrlabgmrf,gavnrlxgbmra,gbmvbgmugawuvca
bkkgawvzrlxotgkpgmrfauop,gauurlxgakgfvltgxzuvbgbmrlxagikso glkbgmvnug.uul
wuzpkzfu gsl uzgmragikl sib,g.sbgbmvbgmragkqlgwuzaklvogvibagfsab
luiuaavzrotgmvnugmv gvgxzuvbuzgamvzugrlgbmufgbmvlgmugvbbzr.sbuagbkgbmufj

Rgoknugmrabkzrvla,gqmubmuzgkpgbmugarfwougakzb,gkzgkpgbmugmrxmuzgkz uzj
Bmugarfwou,gqmkgmvnuglkbmrlxgkpgbmurzgkqlgbkgfrhgqrbmgrb,gvl gqmkgklot
fvcugrbgbmurzg.sarluaagbkgikoouibgvoogbmvbgikfuagbkgbmurzgclkqou xu,gvl 
pvrbmpsootgbkgzuikz gvoogbmrlxa,gqrbmksbgimkriugkzg raizrfrlvbrkl,gouvnu
bkgsagbmugulbrzugys xfulbgkpg raiuzlrlxgbmugbzsbmjggAsim,gpkzguhvfwou,
vfklxabgkbmuza,gragmkluabgPzkraavzb,gqmkgmvagwzkiuu u grlgmragsl uzbvcrlx
qrbmgakgpzvlcgvgwovrlluaagbmvb,gmvnrlxgikffrbbu gvlguzzkz,gmugraglkb
vamvfu gbkgiklpuaagvl gikzzuibgrbgrlgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmugprlxuzgmvag.uul
ovr ,gvl gqmkgzuwzuaulbagbkgsagunulgbmugnvzrubtgkpgzsfkszagbmvbgquzugbmul
awzuv gv.zkv ,gvl gbmug rppuzulbgzuwkzbagbmvbgquzugfv ugbkgmrf;g‘bragbmu
lvcu gvl grlpkzfgfvbbuzgkpgmrabkzt,gvl gkpgqmrimgunuztgklugfvtgfvcugmra
wzkprb,gviikz rlxgbkgmragsl uzabvl rlxjggBmugfkzuguhiuooulbgakzbgkp
mrabkzrvlagmvnugys xfulbgbkgwricgksbgqmvbgragfkabgqkzbmtgbkg.ugclkql;
vl ,gkpgbqkgzuwkzba,gbkguhvfrlugqmrimgragbmugfkabgorcuotgbkg.ugbzsu:gpzkf
bmugikl rbrklgkpgwzrliuagvl gbmurzgmsfksza,gbmutgiklios ugbmurzgikslauoa,
vl gvbbzr.sbugbkgbmufgqkz agwzkwuzgpkzgbmugkiivarkl;gasimgmvnugbrbougbk
vaasfugbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgzuxsovbrlxgkszg.uorupgbkgqmvbgbmutgbmufauonua
.uorunu;g.sbgiuzbvrlot,gbmragwzrnrouxug.uoklxagbkgnuztgpuqjggPkzgbmu
fr  ougakzbgkpgmrabkzrvla,gkpgqmrimgbmugfkabgwvzbgvzu,gbmutgawkrogvoo;
bmutgqroogimuqgkszgfuvbgpkzgsa;gbmutgbvcugswklgbmufgbkgys xugkp,gvl 
iklauesulbot,gbkgrliorlugbmugmrabkztgbkgbmurzgkqlgpvlit;gpkzgrpgbmu
ys xfulbgouvlgbkgklugar u,gvgfvlgivllkbgvnkr gqzuabrlxgvl gqzrbmrlxgmra
lvzzvbrnugbkgbmvbg.rva;gbmutgsl uzbvcugbkgauouibgbmrlxagqkzbmtgbkg.u
clkql,gvl gtubgkpbulgikliuvogpzkfgsagasimgvgqkz ,gasimgvgwzrnvbugvibrkl,
vagqkso gfsimg.ubbuzgrlabzsibgsa;gkfrb,gvagrlizu r.ou,gasimgbmrlxagva
bmutg kglkbgsl uzabvl ,gvl gwuzv nulbszugakfu,g.uivsaugbmutgivllkb
uhwzuaagxkk gPzulimgkzgOvbrljggOubgbmufg rawovtgbmurzguokesuliugvl 
rlbuoorxuliu,gvl gys xugviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkqlgpvlit:g.sbgoubgbmuf,
qrbmvo,gouvnugsagakfubmrlxgbkgys xugkpgvpbuzgbmuf,gvl glurbmuzgvobuzglkz
 raxsrau,g.tgbmurzgv.zr xfulbagvl gvbgbmurzgkqlgimkriu,gvltbmrlxgkpgbmu
as.abvliugkpgbmugfvbbuz,g.sbg uornuzgrbgbkgsagwszugvl gulbrzugrlgvoogrba
 rfularklaj

Pkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gvl guawuirvootgrlgbmuaugovbbuzgvxua,gwuzaklagvzu
isoou gksbgpkzgbmragqkzcgpzkfgvfklxabgbmugikffklgwukwou,gswklgbmugakou
iklar uzvbrklgkpgquoo-awuvcrlx,gvagrpgqugquzugbkgouvzlgxzvffvzgpzkfgbmuf;
vl gbmugfulgakgimkaulgmvnugpvrzgzuvakl,g.urlxgmrzu gpkzglkgkbmuzgul gvl 
wzubul rlxgbkglkbmrlxg.sbg.v..ou,glkbgbkg.ugnuztgakorirbksagkpgvltgwvzb
.sbgbmvb,gvl gak,gqrbmgvgprlugyrlxougkpgqkz a,gwzuwvzugsagvgwzubbt
iklbuhbszugkpgzuwkzbagbmutgwricgswgrlgbmugabzuubajggBmugklotgxkk 
mrabkzruagvzugbmkaugbmvbgmvnug.uulgqzrbbulgbmufauonuagqmkgmuo gikffvl grl
bmugvppvrzagqmuzukpgbmutgqzrbu,gkzgqmkgwvzbrirwvbu grlgbmugikl sibgkp
bmuf,gkz,gvbgouvab,gqmkgmvnugmv gbmugikl sibgkpgkbmuzagkpgbmugavfu
lvbszujggAsimgvzugvofkabgvoogbmugXzuucgvl gZkfvlgmrabkzrua:gpkz,gaunuzvo
utu-qrbluaauagmvnrlxgqzrbbulgkpgbmugavfugas.yuib,grlgbmugbrfugqmul
xzvl uszgvl gouvzlrlxgikffklotgfubgrlgbmugavfugwuzakl,grpgbmuzugmvwwulgbk
.ugvlguzzkz,grbgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugvgnuztgaorxmbgklu,gvl gswklgvgnuzt
 ks.bpsogrlir ulbjggQmvbgivlgvgfvlguhwuibgpzkfgvgwmtarirvlgqmkgqzrbuagkp
qvz,gkzgpzkfgvgfuzugaimkovz,gbzuvbrlxgkpgbmug uarxlagkpgwzrliua?ggRpgqu
ikso gbvcuglkbriugmkqgaizswsoksagbmugZkfvlagquzugrlgbmra,gbmuzugqkso 
luu g.sbgbmraguhvfwou:gVarlrsagWkoorkgpksl grlgbmugmrabkzruagkpgIvuavz
mrfauopgakfubmrlxgfrazuwkzbu ,gvgfrabvcugkiivarklu ;gurbmuzg.tgzuvaklgmu
ikso glkbgmvnugmragutugrlgvoogwvzbagkpgmragvzftgvbgkliugvl gmv gxrnul
izu rbgbkgakfugrl rnr svogwuzaklagqmkgmv glkbg uornuzu gmrfgvgnuztgbzsu
viikslb;gkzguoau,gpkzglkbgmvnrlxgmv gbkkgwuzpuibglkbriugxrnulgmrfg.tgmra
orusbulvlbagkpgqmvbgbmutgmv g klugrlgmragv.auliuj--[Asubklrsa,gOrpugkp
Ivuavz,gijg56j]--.tgqmrimgqugfvtgauu,gqmubmuzgbmugrlesrarbrklgvpbuz
bzsbmg.uglkbgnuztg uorivbu,gqmulgvgfvlgivllkbg.uorunugbmugzuwkzbgkpgv
.vbbougpzkfgbmugclkqou xugkpgmrfgqmkgbmuzugikffvl u ,glkzgpzkfgbmu
ako ruzagqmkgquzugulxvxu grlgrb,gslouaa,gvpbuzgbmugfubmk gkpgvgys rirvo
rlesrzt,gbmugqrbluaauag.ugiklpzklbu gvl gk.yuibrklagiklar uzu gswklgbmu
wzkkpgkpgbmugouvabg ubvrogkpgunuztgrlir ulbjggRlgxkk guvzluabgbmu
clkqou xugqugmvnugkpgkszgkqlgvppvrza,gragfsimgfkzugk.aiszu:g.sbgbmvbgmva
.uulgaspprirulbotgmvl ou g.tg.k rl,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlgaulbrfulb
--[Rlgbmugqkzcg.tgyuvlg.k rl,gulbrbou g“Fubmk sagv gpviroufgmrabkzrvzsf
ikxlrbrklufj”gg1566j]--Vgorbbougbkgvr gbmugquvcluaagkpgftgfufkztg(ak
uhbzufugbmvbgrbgmvagmvwwulu gbkgfugfkzugbmvlgkliu,gbkgbvcug.kkcagvxvrl
rlbkgftgmvl gvagluqgvl gslauul,gbmvbgRgmv givzupsootgzuv gknuzgvgpuq
tuvzag.upkzu,gvl gaizr..ou gqrbmgftglkbua)gRgmvnugv kwbu gvgisabkfgkp
ovbu,gbkglkbugvbgbmugul gkpgunuztg.kkcg(bmvbgra,gkpgbmkaugRglunuzgrlbul 
bkgzuv gvxvrl)gbmugbrfugqmulgRgfv ugvlgul gkl’b,gvl gbmugys xfulbgRgmv 
fv ugkpgrb,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmragfrxmb,gvbgouvab,gzuwzuaulbgbkgfugbmu
imvzvibuzgvl gxuluzvogr uvgRgmv gikliurnu gkpgbmugvsbmkzgrlgzuv rlxgrb;
vl gRgqroogmuzugbzvlaizr.ugakfugkpgbmkaugvllkbvbrklaj

Rgqzkbugbmra,gakfugbulgtuvzagvxk,grlgftgXsriirvz rlrg(kpgqmvbgovlxsvxu
akunuzgftg.kkcagawuvcgbkgfugrl,gRgvoqvtagawuvcgbkgbmufgrlgftgkql):g“Mugra
vg rorxulbgmrabkzrkxzvwmuz,gpzkfgqmkf,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gvgfvlgfvtgouvzlgbmu
bzsbmgkpgbmugvppvrzagkpgmragbrfu,gvaguhvibotgvagpzkfgvltgkbmuz;grlgbmu
fkabgkpgqmrimgmugqvagmrfauopgvoakgvgwuzaklvogvibkz,gvl grlgmklkszv.ou
ikffvl jggBmuzugraglkgvwwuvzvliugbmvbgmug raxsrau gvltbmrlx,gurbmuzgswkl
bmugviikslbgkpgmvbzu ,gpvnksz,gkzgnvlrbt;gkpgqmrimgbmugpzuugiulaszuagmu
wvaauagswklgbmugxzuvbgklua,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbmkaug.tgqmkfgmugqva
v nvliu gvl gufwoktu grlgikffvl agkpgxzuvbgbzsabgvl gmklksz,gvagWkwu
IoufulbgNRRj,gxrnugvfwougbuabrfkltjggVagbkgbmvbgwvzbgqmrimgmugbmrlca
mrfauopgbmug.uabgvb,glvfuot,gmrag rxzuaarklagvl g raikszaua,gmugmva
rl uu gakfugnuztgxkk ,gvl gulzrimu gqrbmgprlugpuvbszua;g.sbgmugragbkk
pkl gkpgbmuf:gpkz,gbkgouvnuglkbmrlxgslavr ,gmvnrlxgvgas.yuibgakgpsoo,
vfwou,gvofkabgrlprlrbu,gmug uxuluzvbuagrlbkgwu vlbztgvl gafvicagvgorbbou
kpgaimkovabrigwzvbboujggRgmvnugvoakgk.auznu gbmragrlgmrf,gbmvbgkpgakgfvlt
aksoagvl gakgfvltguppuiba,gakgfvltgfkbrnuagvl gakgfvltgikslauoagvagmu
ys xua,gmuglunuzgvbbzr.sbuagvltgklugbkgnrzbsu,gzuorxrkl,gkzgiklairuliu,
vagrpgvoogbmuaugquzugsbbuzotguhbrlibgrlgbmugqkzo :gvl gkpgvoogbmu
vibrkla,gmkqg.zvnugakunuzgrlgksbqvz gamkqgbmutgvwwuvzgrlgbmufauonua,gmu
voqvtagzupuzagbmugivsaugvl gfkbrnugbkgakfugnrirksagkiivarklgkzgakfu
wzkawuibgkpgwzkprbjggRbgragrfwkaar.ougbkgrfvxrlug.sbgbmvb,gvfklxabgasim
vlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgvibrklagvagmugfvcuagfulbrklgkp,gbmuzugfsabg.ugakfu
klugwzk siu g.tgbmugqvtgkpgmkluabgzuvakljggLkgikzzswbrklgikso gak
slrnuzavootgmvnugrlpuibu gfulgbmvbgakfugklugqkso glkbguaivwugbmu
iklbvxrklgqmrimgfvcuagfugasawuibgbmvbgmragkqlgbvabugqvagnrirksa,gqmuliu
rbgfrxmbgmvwwulgbmvbgmugys xu gkbmuzgfulg.tgmrfauopj”

RlgftgWmrorwg ugIkffrluagbmuzugragbmragqzrbbul:g“Tksgqroogmuzugprl gbmu
ovlxsvxugaquubgvl g uorxmbpso,gkpgvglvbszvogarfworirbt,gbmuglvzzvbrkl
wszu,gqrbmgbmugxkk gpvrbmgkpgbmugvsbmkzgiklawrisksagbmuzurl;gpzuugpzkf
nvlrbt,gqmulgawuvcrlxgkpgmrfauop,gvl gpzkfgvppuibrklgkzgulnt,gqmul
awuvcrlxgkpgkbmuza:gmrag raikszauagvl guhmkzbvbrklagzvbmuzgviikfwvlru 
qrbmgduvogvl gbzsbm,gbmvlgqrbmgvltguhesrarbugaspprirulit;gvl ,
bmzksxmksb,gvsbmkzrbtgvl gxzvnrbt,gqmrimg.uawuvcgmrfgvgfvlgkpgxkk 
uhbzvibrkl,gvl g.zksxmbgswgrlgxzuvbgvppvrzaj”

SwklgbmugFufkrzagkpgFklaruszg sg.uoovtgRgprl gbmra:g“‘Bragvoqvtagwouvavlb
bkgzuv gbmrlxagqzrbbulg.tgbmkaugbmvbgmvnuguhwuzruliu gmkqgbmutgksxmbgbk
.ugivzzru gkl;g.sbgqrbmvo,grbgivllkbg.ug ulru g.sbgbmuzugragvgfvlrpuab
 uiv uliugrlgbmuaugbqkgokz a--[Fvzbrlg sg.uoovtgvl gXsroovsfug ugOvlxut,
.zkbmuza,gqmkgykrlbotgqzkbugbmugFufkrzaj]--pzkfgbmugpzuu kfgvl gor.uzbt
kpgqzrbrlxgbmvbgamrlugrlgbmuguo uzgmrabkzrvla,gasimgvagbmugArzug u
Ykrlnroou,gbmugpvfrorvzgikfwvlrklgkpgAbjgOksra;gUxrlmvz ,gimvliuookzgbk
Imvzoufvxlu;gvl gkpgovbuzg vbu,gWmrorwg ugIkffrluajggQmvbgqugmvnugmuzugra
zvbmuzgvlgvwkokxtgpkzgCrlxgPzvlira,gvxvrlabgbmugUfwuzkzgImvzouagNj,gbmvl
mrabkztjggRgqrooglkbg.uorunugbmvbgbmutgmvnugpvoarpru gvltbmrlx,gvagbk
fvbbuzgkpgpvib;g.sbgbmutgfvcugvgikffklgwzvibriugkpgbqrabrlxgbmugys xfulb
kpgunulba,gnuztgkpbulgiklbzvztgbkgzuvakl,gbkgkszgv nvlbvxu,gvl gkp
kfrbbrlxgqmvbakunuzgragbricoramgbkg.ugmvl ou grlgbmugorpugkpgbmurz
fvabuz;gqrbluaagbmugwzkiuu rlxagkpgFuaaruszag ugFklbfkzulitgvl g ug.rzkl,
qmrimgvzugmuzugkfrbbu :glvt,gakgfsimgvagbmugnuztglvfugkpgFv vfu
 ’Uabvfwuagraglkbgmuzugbkg.ugpksl jggAuizubgvibrklagvlgmrabkzrvlgfvt
ikliuvo;g.sbgbkgwvaagknuzgrlgarouliugqmvbgvoogbmugqkzo gclkqagvl gbmrlxa
bmvbgmvnug zvqlgvpbuzgbmufgws.origvl gasimgmrxmgiklauesuliua,gragvl
rluhisav.oug upuibjggRlgprlu,gqmkunuzgmvagvgfrl gbkgmvnugvgwuzpuib
clkqou xugkpgCrlxgPzvliragvl gbmugunulbagkpgmragzurxl,goubgmrfgauucgrb
uoauqmuzu,grpgftgv nriugfvtgwzunvrojggBmugklotgwzkprbgvgfvlgivlgzuvwgpzkf
bmuaugFufkrzagragrlgbmugawuirvoglvzzvbrnugkpg.vbbouagvl gkbmuzguhwokrba
kpgqvzgqmuzurlgbmuaugxulboufulgquzugwuzaklvootgulxvxu ;grlgakfugqkz agvl 
wzrnvbugvibrklagkpgbmugwzrliuagkpgbmurzgbrfu,gvl grlgbmugbzuvbruagvl 
luxkbrvbrklagivzzru gklg.tgbmugAurxluszg ugOvlxut,gqmuzugbmuzugvzu
unuztqmuzugbmrlxagqkzbmtgbkg.ugclkql,gvl g raikszauagv.knugbmugnsoxvz
abzvrlj”




IMVWBUZgHR

KPgIZSUOBT

Rgpvlitgnrzbsugbkg.ugakfubmrlxguoau,gvl gakfubmrlxgfkzuglk.ou,gbmvlgxkk 
lvbszu,gvl gbmugfuzugwzkwularklgbkgxkk luaa,gbmvbgqugvzug.kzlgrlbkgbmu
qkzo gqrbmvojggQuoo- rawkau gvl gquoo- uaiul u gaksoagwszasu,grl uu ,gbmu
avfugfubmk a,gvl gzuwzuaulbgrlgbmurzgvibrklagbmugavfugpviugbmvbgnrzbsu
rbauopg kua:g.sbgbmugqkz gnrzbsugrfwkzba,gRgclkqglkbgqmvb,gfkzugxzuvbgvl 
vibrnugbmvlgfuzuotgpkzgvgfvlgbkgasppuzgmrfauop,g.tgvgmvwwtg rawkarbrkl,
bkg.ugxulbotgvl gesrubotg zvqlgbkgbmugzsougkpgzuvakljggMugqmk,g.tgv
lvbszvogaquubluaagvl gpvirorbt,gamkso g uawraugrlyszruagzuiurnu ,gqkso 
 ks.bouaag kgvgnuztgprlugvl govs v.ougbmrlx;g.sbgmugqmk,gwzknkcu gvl 
lubbou gbkgbmugesricg.tgvlgkppuliu,gamkso gpkzbrptgmrfauopgqrbmgbmugvzfa
kpgzuvaklgvxvrlabgbmugpszrksagvwwubrbugkpgzunulxu,gvl gvpbuzgvgxzuvb
iklporib,gfvabuzgmragkqlgwvaarkl,gqkso giuzbvrlotg kgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzuj
Bmugprzabgqkso g kgquoo;gbmugovbbuzgnrzbsksaot:gklugvibrklgfrxmbg.u
ivoou gxkk luaa,gvl gbmugkbmuzgnrzbsu;gpkzgfubmrlca,gbmugnuztglvfugkp
nrzbsugwzuaswwkauag rpprisobtgvl giklbulbrkl,gvl givllkbg.uguhuzirau 
qrbmksbgvlgkwwklulbjgg‘Bragpkzgbmragzuvakl,gwuzmvwa,gbmvbgqugivoogXk 
xkk ,gfrxmbt,gor.uzvogvl gysab;g.sbgqug kglkbgivoogMrfgnrzbsksa,g.urlx
bmvbgvoogMragkwuzvbrklagvzuglvbszvogvl gqrbmksbgul uvnkszj--[Zksaauvs,
rlgmragUfrou,g.kkcgnj,gv kwbagbmragwvaavxugvofkabgrlgbmugavfugqkz aj]--
Rbgmvag.uulgbmugkwrlrklgkpgfvltgwmrokakwmuza,glkbgklotgAbkria,g.sb
Uwriszuvla--vl gbmragv  rbrkl--

ggggg[“Fklbvrxlugabkwagmuzugbkgfvcugmraguhisaugpkzgbmsaglvfrlxgbmu
gggggUwriszuvlagqrbmgbmugAbkria,grlgiklpkzfrbtgbkgbmugxuluzvogkwrlrkl
gggggbmvbgbmugUwriszuvlagquzuglkbgakgzrxr grlgbmurzgfkzvoagvagbmugAbkria,
gggggqmrimgraglkbgbzsugrlgbmugfvrl,gvagmug ufklabzvbuagvbgklugnruqjggBmra
gggggrlnkonu gFklbvrxlugrlgvgbu rksagwvzulbmuara,g szrlxgqmrimgrbgra
gggggwzkwuzgbmvbgbmugzuv uzg.ugvbbulbrnu,gbmvbgmugfvtglkbgulbrzuotgokau
gggggbmugbmzuv gkpgbmugvzxsfulbjggRlgakfugovbuzgu rbrklagkpgbmragvsbmkz,
gggggrbgmvag.uulgvbbufwbu gbkgzufu tgbmragrliklnulruliu,g.sbgqrbmksb
gggggk.auznrlxgbmvbgFklbvrxlu’agvzxsfulbgragzul uzu gfkzugpuu.ougvl 
gggggk.aiszug.tgasimgnvrlgzuwubrbrkla:grbgragvgoriuliugbmvbgksxmbglkbgbk
ggggg.ugbvcul,g.uivsaugmugqmkgws.oramuagbmugqkzcgkpgvlkbmuz,gksxmbgbk
gggggxrnugrbgvagbmugkbmuzgikfwkau gpbjgg.sb,grlgFzgIkbbkl’agbzvlaovbrkl,
gggggmugqvagakgwsddou gqrbmgbmragulkzfksagwvzulbmuaragbmvbgmugmvagesrbu
gggggoupbgrbgksb”--Ikabuj]

Rg.kzzkqgpzkfgbmugnsoxvzgkwrlrkl,gqmrimgragpvoau,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmu
qrbbtgikliurbgkpgVziuarovsagrlgvlaquzgbkgklu,gqmk,g.urlxgzuwzkvimu gbmvb
fvltgaimkovzagqulbgpzkfgmragaimkkogbkgbmugUwriszuvl,g.sbglunuzgvltgpzkf
bmuliugbkgmragaimkko,gavr grlgvlaquz,g“Rg.uorunugrbgrl uu ;glsf.uzagkp
ivwklag.urlxgfv ugksbgkpgikica,g.sbglunuzgvltgikicagksbgkpgivwklaj”
g--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gOrpugkpgVzimuarovsa,gor.jggrnj,g43j]--Pkz,grlgbzsbm,
bmugUwriszuvlgauibgraglkbgvbgvoogrlpuzrkzgbkgbmugAbkrigrlgabuv rluaa,gvl 
bmugzrxkszgkpgkwrlrklagvl gwzuiuwbajggVl gvgiuzbvrlgAbkri,gamkqrlxgfkzu
mkluabtgbmvlgbmkaug rawsbvlba,gqmk,grlgkz uzgbkgesvzzuogqrbmgUwriszsa,
vl gbkgbmzkqgbmugxvfugrlbkgbmurzgmvl a,gfvcugmrfgavtgqmvbgmuglunuz
bmksxmb,gwsbbrlxgvgqzklxgiklabzsibrklgswklgmragqkz a,giokbmrlxgmra
aulbuliua,g.tgbmugabzribgzsouagkpgxzvffvz,gqrbmgvlkbmuzgfuvlrlx,gvl gv
 rppuzulbgkwrlrklgpzkfgbmvbgqmrimgbmutgcluqgmugulbuzbvrlu grlgmragfrl 
vl grlgmragfkzvoa,gbmugAbkri,gRgavt,g uiovzu gbmvbgmugv.vl klu gbmu
Uwriszuvlgauib,gswklgbmragvfklxgkbmuzgiklar uzvbrkla,gbmvbgmugbmksxmb
bmurzgzkv gbkkgokpbtgvl grlviiuaar.ou;

ggggg[“Vl gbmkaugvzugivoou goknuzagkpgwouvaszu,g.urlxgrlguppuib
gggggoknuzagkpgmklkszgvl gysabriu,gqmkgisobrnvbugvl gk.auznugvoo
gggggbmugnrzbsuaj”--Iriuzk,gUwjggPvfj,ghnjgr,g19j]

Bmuaugwmrokakwmuzagavtgbmvbgrbgraglkbgulksxmgbkgmvnugbmugaksogauvbu grl
vgxkk gwoviu,gkpgvgxkk gbufwuz,gvl gquoog rawkau gbkgnrzbsu;grbgraglkb
ulksxmgbkgmvnugkszgzuakosbrklagvl gkszgzuvaklrlxgprhu gv.knugvoogbmu
wkquzgkpgpkzbslu,g.sbgbmvbgqugvzu,gfkzuknuz,gbkgauucgkiivarklagqmuzurlgbk
wsbgbmufgbkgbmugwzkkp:gbmutgqkso gauucgwvrl,gluiuaarbt,gvl giklbufwbgbk
iklbul gqrbmgbmufgvl gbkgcuuwgbmugaksogrlg.zuvbm:

ggggggggggggggg“Fsobsfgar.rgv yrirbgnrzbsagoviuaarbvj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Nrzbsugragfsimgabzulxbmulu g.tgikf.vbaj”
ggggggggggggggggkz:gg“Nrzbsugvbbvicu gv  agbkgrbagkqlgpkziuj”
gggggggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g13j]

‘BragklugkpgbmugzuvaklagqmtgUwvfrlkl va,gqmkgqvagtubgkpgvgbmrz gauib,
--[BmugWtbmvxkzuvlj]--zupsau gbmugzrimuagpkzbslugwzuaulbu gbkgmrfg.t
nuztgovqpsogfuvla;g.uivsau,gavr gmu,gRgvfgbkgiklbul gqrbmgwknuzbt,grl
qmrimguhbzufugmugfvrlbvrlu gmrfauopgbkgbmugovabjggAkizvbuagwsbgmrfauop,
fubmrlca,gswklgvgzs uzgbzrvo,gcuuwrlxgpkzgmraguhuziraugvgiklpksl u 
aiko rlxgqrpu,gqmrimgqvagprxmbrlxgvbgamvzwajggFubuoosagmvnrlx,gkpgvoogbmu
Zkfvlgaulvbkza,gvoklugvbbufwbu ,g.tgbmugwkquzgkpgnrzbsu,gbkgqrbmabvl gbmu
nrkouliugkpgAvbszlrlsa,gbzr.slugkpgbmugwukwougvbgZkfu,gqmkgqkso ,g.tgvoo
fuvla,givsaugvlgslysabgovqgbkgwvaagrlgpvnkszgkpgbmugikffkla,gvl ,g.tgak
 krlx,gmvnrlxgrliszzu gbmugivwrbvogwulvobruagbmvbgAvbszlrlsagmv 
uabv.oramu gvxvrlabgbmug raaulbrulb,gulbuzbvrlu gbmkaugqmk,grlgbmra
uhbzufrbt,gou gmrfgbkguhuisbrklgqrbmgqkz agbkgbmraguppuib:gBmvbgrbgqvagv
bmrlxgbkkguvatgvl gbkkg.vaugbkg kgroo;gvl gbmvbgbkg kgquoogqmuzugbmuzu
qvaglkg vlxuzgqvagvgikffklgbmrlx;g.sbgbmvbgbkg kgquoogqmuzugbmuzugqva
 vlxuzgqvagbmugwzkwuzgkppriugkpgvgfvlgkpgnrzbsujggBmuaugqkz agkpgFubuoosa
nuztgiouvzotgzuwzuaulbgbkgsagqmvbgRgqkso gfvcugksb,gnrdj,gbmvbgnrzbsu
zupsauagpvirorbtgpkzgvgikfwvlrkl;gvl gbmvbgbmuguvat,gafkkbm,gvl 
 uaiul rlxgqvtg.tgqmrimgbmugzuxsovzgabuwagkpgvgaquubg rawkarbrklgkp
lvbszugvzugikl sibu graglkbgbmvbgkpgvgbzsugnrzbsu;gamugzuesrzuagvgzksxm
vl gabkzftgwvaavxu;gamugqroogmvnugurbmuzguhkbrig rpprisobruagbkgqzuabou
qrbm,gorcugbmvbgkpgFubuoosa,g.tgfuvlagqmuzukpgpkzbslug uorxmbagbk
rlbuzzswbgbmugawuu gkpgmuzgivzuuz,gkzgrlbuzlvog rpprisobrua,gbmvbgbmu
rlkz rlvbugvwwubrbuagvl grfwuzpuibrklagkpgkszgikl rbrklgrlbzk siugbk
 rabsz.gmuzj

Rgvfgikfugbmsagpvzgvbgftguvau;g.sbgmuzugrbgikfuagrlbkgftgmuv gbmvbgbmu
aksogkpgAkizvbua,gbmugfkabgwuzpuibgbmvbgunuzgivfugbkgftgclkqou xu,gamkso 
.tgbmragzsoug.ugkpgnuztgorbbougzuikfful vbrkl;gpkzgRgivllkbgikliurnugrl
bmvbgwuzaklgvltgbmugouvabgfkbrklgkpgvgnrirksagrliorlvbrkl:gRgivllkb
rfvxrlugbmuzugikso g.ugvltg rpprisobtgkzgiklabzvrlbgrlgbmugikszaugkpgmra
nrzbsu:gRgclkqgmragzuvaklgbkg.ugakgwkquzpsogvl gaknuzurxlgknuzgmrfgbmvb
amugqkso glunuzgmvnugasppuzu gvgnrirksagvwwubrbugakgfsimgvagbkgawzrlxgrl
mrfjggBkgvgnrzbsugakguounvbu gvagmra,gRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgkwwkaujggFubmrlca
Rgauugmrfgfvzim,gqrbmgvgnribkzrksagvl gbzrsfwmvlbgwviu,grlgwkfwgvl gvb
mraguvau,gqrbmksbgkwwkarbrklgkzg rabsz.vliujggRpgnrzbsugivllkbgamrlu
.zrxmb,g.sbg.tgbmugiklporibgkpgiklbzvztgvwwubrbua,gamvoogqugbmulgavtgbmvb
amugivllkbgas.arabgqrbmksbgbmugvaarabvliugkpgnriu,gvl gbmvbgrbgragpzkf
muzgbmvbgamug uzrnuagmuzgzuwsbvbrklgvl gmklksz?ggQmvbgbmul,gvoak,gqkso 
.uikfugkpgbmvbg.zvnugvl gxuluzksagUwriszuvlgwouvaszu,gqmrimgfvcuagviikslb
bmvbgrbglkszramuagnrzbsugbul uzotgrlgmuzgovw,gvl gbmuzugfvcuagrbgwovtgvl 
qvlbkl,gxrnrlxgrbgpkzgbktagbkgwovtgqrbmvo,gamvfu,gpunuza,gwknuzbt,g uvbm,
vl gbkzfulba?ggRpgRgwzuaswwkaugbmvbgvgwuzpuibgnrzbsugfvlrpuabagrbauopgrl
iklbul rlx,grlgwvbrulbgul szrlxgkpgwvrl,gvl gsl uzxkrlxgbmugsbbuzfkab
uhbzufrbtgkpgbmugxksb;gqrbmksbg.urlxgfknu grlgmuzgauvb;grpgRgxrnugmuz
bzks.ouagvl g rpprisobtgpkzgmuzgluiuaavztgk.yuiba:gqmvbgqroog.uikfugkpgv
nrzbsuguounvbu gbkgasimgvg uxzuu,gvaglkbgklotgbkg uawraugwvrl,g.sb,
fkzuknuz,gbkgzuykriugrlgrb,gvl gbkg.ugbricou gqrbmgbmugbmzkuagkpgvgamvzw
ikori,gasimgvagbmugUwriszuvlagmvnuguabv.oramu ,gvl gkpgqmrimgfvltgkp
bmuf,g.tgbmurzgvibrkla,gmvnugxrnulgfkabgfvlrpuabgwzkkpa?ggVagmvnugaunuzvo
kbmuza,gqmkgRgprl gbkgmvnugaszwvaau grlguppuibagunulgbmugnuztgzsouagkp
bmurzg rairworlujggQrbluaagbmugtkslxuzgIvbk:gQmulgRgauugmrfg ru,gvl 
buvzrlxgksbgmragkqlg.kquoa,gRgvfglkbgavbrapru garfwotgbkg.uorunugbmvbgmu
mv gbmulgmragaksogbkbvootguhufwbgpzkfgvoogbzks.ougvl gmkzzkz:gRgivllkb
bmrlcgbmvbgmugklotgfvrlbvrlu gmrfauopgrlgbmugabuv rluaagbmvbgbmugAbkrivo
zsouagwzuaizr.u gmrf;gbufwuzvbu,gqrbmksbgufkbrkl,gvl grfwuzbsz.u jggBmuzu
qva,gfubmrlca,gakfubmrlxgrlgbmugnrzbsugkpgbmragfvlgbkkgawzrxmbotgvl 
pzuamgbkgabkwgbmuzu;gRg.uorunugbmvb,gqrbmksbg ks.b,gmugpuobgvgwouvaszu
vl g uorxmbgrlgakglk.ougvlgvibrkl,gvl gqvagfkzugwouvau grlgrbgbmvlgrlgvlt
kbmuzgkpgmragorpu:

ggggg“Arigv.rrbgvgnrbv,gsbgivsavfgfkzrul rglvibsfgauguaaugxvs uzubj”

ggggg[“Mugesrbbu gorpugzuykrirlxgbmvbgvgzuvaklgpkzg trlxgmv gvzraulj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grjg30j]

Rg.uorunugrbgakgbmkzksxmotgbmvbgRgesuabrklgqmubmuzgmugqkso gmvnug.uul
iklbulbgbkgmvnug.uulg uwzrnu gkpgbmugkiivarklgkpgakg.zvnugvlguhwokrb;gvl 
rpgbmugxkk luaagbmvbgfv ugmrfguf.zviugbmugws.origikliuzlgfkzugbmvlgmra
kql,gqrbmmuo gfuglkb,gRgamkso guvarotgpvoogrlbkgvlgkwrlrklgbmvbgmu
bmksxmbgmrfauopgk.orxu gbkgpkzbslugpkzgmvnrlxgwsbgmragnrzbsugswklgak
.zvnugvgbzrvo,gvl gpkzgmvnrlxgpvnkszu gbmvbgbmurp--[Ivuavz]--rlgbzuv rlx
sl uzpkkbgbmugvlirulbgor.uzbtgkpgmragikslbztjggFubmrlcagRgzuv grlgbmra
vibrklgRgclkqglkbgqmvbguhvobvbrklgrlgmragakso,gvl gvlguhbzvkz rlvztgvl 
fvlotgufkbrklgkpgwouvaszu,gqmulgmugokkcu gswklgbmugxuluzkarbtgvl gmurxmb
kpgmragulbuzwzrau:

gggggggggggggggggggg“ uor.uzvbugfkzbugpuzkirkz,”

gggggggggg[“Bmugfkzugikszvxuksagpzkfgbmug uor.uzvbrklgbkg ruj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grjg37,g29j]

lkbgabrfsovbu gqrbmgvltgmkwugkpgxokzt,gvagbmugwkwsovzgvl guppufrlvbu
ys xfulbagkpgakfugmvnugiklios u g(pkzgbmvbgiklar uzvbrklgqvagbkkgfuvlgvl 
okqgbkgwkaauaagakgxuluzksa,gakgmvsxmbt,gvl gakg ubuzfrlu gvgmuvzbgva
mra),g.sbgpkzgbmugnuztg.uvsbtgkpgbmugbmrlxgrlgrbauop,gqmrimgmugqmkgmv 
bmugmvl orlxgkpgbmugawzrlxag raiuzlu gfkzugiouvzotgvl grlgrbagwuzpuibrkl
bmvlgqugvzugv.ougbkg kjggWmrokakwmtgmvagk.orxu gfugrlg ubuzfrlrlxgbmvbgak
.zvnugvlgvibrklgmv g.uulgrl uiulbotgwoviu grlgvltgkbmuzgorpugbmvlgbmvbgkp
Ivbk;gvl gbmvbgrbgklotgvwwuzbvrlu gbkgmragbkgul gak;glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvl 
viikz rlxgbkgzuvakl,gmugikffvl u gmragaklgvl gbmugaulvbkzagqmk
viikfwvlru gmrfgbkgbvcugvlkbmuzgikszaugrlgbmurzgvppvrza:

gggggggggg“Ivbklr,gessfgrlizu r.roufglvbszvgbzr.sraaubgxzvnrbvbuf,
gggggggggguvfesugrwaugwuzwubsugiklabvlbrvgzk.kzvnraaub,gaufwuzesu
ggggggggggrlgwzkwkarbkgiklarorkgwuzfvlaraaub,gfkzrul sfgwkbrsa,
ggggggggggesvfgbtzvllrgnsobsagvawrirul sa,guzvbj”

ggggg[“Ivbk,gqmkfglvbszugmv gxrnulgrlizu r.oug rxlrbt,gqmrimgmugmv 
gggggpkzbrpru g.tgwuzwubsvogiklabvlit,gunuzgzufvrlrlxgkpgmra
gggggwzu ubuzfrlu gkwrlrkl,gwzupuzzu gbkg rugzvbmuzgbmvlgbkgokkc
gggggklgbmugikslbulvliugkpgvgbtzvlbj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpij,grjg31j]

Unuztg uvbmgksxmbgbkgmko gwzkwkzbrklgqrbmgbmugorpug.upkzugrb;gqug kglkb
.uikfugkbmuzagpkzg trlxjggRgvoqvtagrlbuzwzubgbmug uvbmg.tgbmugorpu
wzuiu rlx;gvl grpgvltgklugbuoogfugkpgvg uvbmgabzklxgvl giklabvlbgrl
vwwuvzvliu,gvlluhu gbkgvgpuu.ougorpu,gRgiklios ugrbgwzk siu g.tgakfu
puu.ougivsau,gvl gasrbv.ougbkgbmugorpug.upkzujggBmuguvarluaagbmulgkpgmra
 uvbmgvl gbmugpvirorbtgkpg trlxgmugmv gviesrzu g.tgbmugnrxkszgkpgmra
akso;gamvoogqugavtgbmvbgrbgksxmbgbkgv.vbugvltbmrlxgkpgbmugosabzugkpgmra
nrzbsu?ggVl gqmk,gbmvbgmvagmrag.zvrlglunuzgakgorbbougbrlibszu gqrbmgbmu
bzsugwmrokakwmt,givlg.ugiklbulbgbkgrfvxrlugAkizvbuagklotgpzuugpzkfgpuvz
vl gwvaarklgrlgbmugviir ulbgkpgmragwzrakl,gpubbuza,gvl gikl uflvbrkl?
vl gbmvbgqrooglkbg raiknuzgrlgmrfglkbgklotgprzfluaagvl giklabvlitg(qmrim
qvagmragkz rlvztgikl rbrkl),g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gRgclkqglkbgqmvbgluq
avbrapvibrkl,gvl gvgpzkorigimuuzpsoluaagrlgmragovabgqkz agvl gvibrkla?
Rlgbmugabvzbgmugxvnugqrbmgbmugwouvaszugkpgaizvbimrlxgmragouxgqmulgmra
rzklagquzugbvculgkpp,g kuagmuglkbg raiknuzgvlguesvogauzulrbtgvl gyktgrl
mragaksogpkzg.urlxgpzuu gpzkfgwvabgrliklnulruliua,gvl gvbgbmugavfugbrfu
bkgulbuzgrlbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugbmrlxagbkgikfu?ggIvbkgamvoogwvz klgfu,
rpgmugwouvau;gmrag uvbmgrl uu gragfkzugbzvxrivogvl gfkzugorlxuzrlx;g.sb
tubgbmragra,gRgclkqglkbgmkq,gfubmrlca,gprluzjggVzrabrwwsa,gbkgklugbmvb
qvagovfulbrlxgbmrag uvbm:g“Bmugxk agxzvlbgfugasimgvlgklu,”gavr gmuj
Vgfvlg raiuzlagrlgbmugaksogkpgbmuaugbqkgxzuvbgfulgvl gbmurzgrfrbvbkza
(pkzgRgnuztgfsimg ks.bgqmubmuzgbmuzugquzugunuzgbmurzguesvoa)gakgwuzpuibgv
mv.rbs ugbkgnrzbsu,gbmvbgrbgqvagbszlu gbkgvgikfwouhrkljggRbgraglkgoklxuz
vgov.kzrksagnrzbsu,glkzgbmugwzuiuwbagkpgzuvakl,gbkgfvrlbvrlgqmrimgbmu
aksogragakgzvicu ,g.sbgbmugnuztguaauliugkpgbmurzgakso,grbaglvbszvogvl 
kz rlvztgmv.rb;gbmutgmvnugzul uzu grbgasimg.tgvgoklxgwzvibriugkp
wmrokakwmrivogwzuiuwbagmvnrlxgorbgswklgvgzrimgvl gprluglvbszu;gbmu
nrirksagwvaarklagbmvbgawzrlxgrlgsagivlgprl glkgulbzvliugrlbkgbmuf;gbmu
pkziugvl gnrxkszgkpgbmurzgaksogabrpougvl guhbrlxsramgrzzuxsovzg uarzua,
akgakklgvagbmutg.uxrlgbkgfknuj

Lkq,gbmvbgrbgraglkbgfkzuglk.ou,g.tgvgmrxmgvl g rnrlugzuakosbrkl,gbk
mrl uzgbmug.rzbmgkpgbufwbvbrkla,gvl gbkg.ugakgpkzfu gbkgnrzbsu,gbmvbgbmu
nuztgauu agkpgnriugvzugzkkbu gksb,gbmvlgbkgmrl uzg.tgfvrlgpkziugbmurz
wzkxzuaa;gvl ,gmvnrlxgasppuzu gkszauonuagbkg.ugaszwzrau gqrbmgbmugprzab
fkbrklagkpgbmugwvaarkla,gbkgvzfgkszauonuagvl gbkgabvl gprzfgbkgkwwkau
bmurzgwzkxzuaa,gvl gknuzikfugbmuf;gvl gbmvbgbmragauikl guppuibgraglkb
voakgfsimgfkzugxuluzksagbmvlgbkg.ugarfwotgul kqu gqrbmgvgpvirougvl 
vppv.ouglvbszu,gkpgrbauopg ravppuibu gbkg u.vsimuztgvl gnriu,gRg kglkb
bmrlcgivlg.ug ks.bu ;gpkzgbmragbmrz gvl govabgakzbgkpgnrzbsugauufagbk
zul uzgvgfvlgrllkiulb,g.sbglkbgnrzbsksa;gpzuugpzkfg krlxgroo,g.sbglkbgvwb
ulksxmgbkg kgquoo:giklar uzrlxgvoak,gbmvbgbmragikl rbrklgragakgluvz
lurxm.kszgbkgrfwuzpuibrklgvl gikqvz riu,gbmvbgRgclkqglkbgnuztgquoogmkqgbk
auwvzvbugbmugiklprluagvl g rabrlxsramgbmuf:gbmugnuztglvfuagkpgxkk luaa
vl grllkiuliugvzu,gpkzgbmragzuvakl,grlgakfugakzbgxzkqlgrlbkgiklbufwbj
Rgnuztgquoogclkqgbmvbgaunuzvognrzbsua,gvagimvabrbt,gak.zrubt,gvl 
bufwuzvliu,gfvtgikfugbkgvgfvlgbmzksxmgwuzaklvog upuibajggIklabvlitgrl
 vlxuz,grpgrbgfsabg.ugakgivoou ,gbmugiklbufwbgkpg uvbm,gvl gwvbruliugrl
frapkzbslua,gfvtgkpbbrfuag.ugpksl grlgfulgpkzgqvlbgkpgquoogys xrlxgkp
asimgviir ulba,gvl glkbgvwwzumul rlxgbmufgpkzgasimgvagbmutgvzujggQvlbgkp
vwwzumularklgvl gabswr rbtgakfubrfuagikslbuzpurbgnrzbsksaguppuibagvagR
mvnugkpbulgauulgrbgmvwwul,gbmvbgfulgmvnug.uulgikfful u gpkzgqmvbgzuvoot
fuzrbu g.ovfujggVlgRbvorvlgokz gkliugavr gbmra,grlgftgwzuauliu,gbkgbmu
 rav nvlbvxugkpgmragkqlglvbrkl:gbmvbgbmugas.boubtgkpgbmugRbvorvla,gvl 
bmugnrnvirbtgkpgbmurzgikliuwbrklagquzugakgxzuvb,gvl gbmutgpkzuavqgbmu
 vlxuzagvl gviir ulbagbmvbgfrxmbg.upvoogbmufgakgpvzgkpp,gbmvbgrbgqvaglkb
bkg.ugbmksxmbgabzvlxu,grpgbmutgquzugkpbul,grlgqvz,gk.auznu gbkgwzknr u
pkzgbmurzgavpubt,gunulg.upkzugbmutgmv g raiknuzu gbmugwuzro;gbmvbgqu
Pzulimgvl gbmugAwvlrvz a,gqmkgquzuglkbgakgisllrlx,gqulbgklgpszbmuz,gvl 
bmvbgqugfsabg.ugfv ugbkgauugvl gpuuogbmug vlxuzg.upkzugqugqkso gbvcugbmu
vovzf;g.sbgbmvbgunulgbmulgqugikso glkbgabricgbkgrbjgg.sbgbmugXuzfvlagvl 
Aqraa,gfkzugxzkaagvl gmuvnt,gmv glkbgbmugaulaugbkgokkcgv.ksbgbmuf,gunul
qmulgbmug.okqagquzugpvoorlxgv.ksbgbmurzguvzajggWuzv nulbszu,gmugklot
bvocu gakgpkzgfrzbm’agavcu;gvl gtubgrbgragfkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgrlgqvzgzvq
ako ruzagzsamgrlbkg vlxuzagqrbmgfkzugwzuirwrbvlitgbmvlgvpbuzgbmutgmvnu
.uulgis xuoou *--(Bmugkzrxrlvogmvaguaimvso uh--aivo u )

ggggggggg“Mvs grxlvzsagjggjggjggjggesvlbsfglknvgxokzrvgrlgvzfra,
ggggggggggUbgwzvu soiug uisa,gwzrfkgiuzbvfrlugwkaarbj”

ggggg[“Lkbgrxlkzvlbgmkqgfsimgwkquzgbmugpzuamgxokztgkpgvzfagvl gaquubuab
gggggmklkszgwkaauaagrlgbmugprzabgiklbuabj”--VUlur ,ghrjg154]

Pkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgragbmvb,gqmulgqugys xugkpgvgwvzbrisovzgvibrkl,gqugvzu
bkgiklar uzgbmugirzisfabvliua,gvl gbmugqmkougfvlg.tgqmkfgrbgragwuzpkzfu ,
.upkzugqugxrnugrbgvglvfuj

Bkgrlabvliugrlgftauop:gRgmvnugakfubrfuagclkqlgftgpzrul agivoogbmvb
wzs uliugrlgfu,gqmrimgqvagfuzuotgpkzbslu;gvl gzuwsbugbmvbgikszvxugvl 
wvbruliu,gqmrimgqvagys xfulbgvl gkwrlrkl;gvl gvbbzr.sbugbkgfugklugbrbou
pkzgvlkbmuz,gakfubrfuagbkgftgv nvlbvxugvl gakfubrfuagkbmuzqraujggVagbk
bmugzuab,gRgvfgakgpvzgpzkfg.urlxgvzzrnu gvbgbmugprzabgvl gfkabgwuzpuib
 uxzuugkpguhiuoouliu,gqmuzugnrzbsugragbszlu grlbkgmv.rb,gbmvbgunulgkpgbmu
auikl gRgmvnugfv uglkgxzuvbgwzkkpajggRgmvnuglkbg.uulgnuztgakorirbksagbk
isz.gbmug uarzuag.tgqmrimgRgmvnug.uulgrfwkzbslu jggFtgnrzbsugragvgnrzbsu,
kzgzvbmuzgvlgrllkiuliu,givasvogvl gviir ulbvojggRpgRgmv g.uulg.kzlgkpgv
fkzugrzzuxsovzgikfwouhrkl,gRgvfgvpzvr gRgamkso gmvnugfv ugaiszntgqkzc;
pkzgRglunuzgk.auznu gvltgxzuvbgabv.rorbtgrlgftgaksogbkgzuarabgwvaarkla,
rpgbmutgquzuglunuzgakgorbbougnumufulb:gRgclkqglkbgmkqgbkglkszramgesvzzuoa
vl g u.vbuagrlgftgkqlg.kakf,gvl ,giklauesulbot,gkqugftauopglkgxzuvb
bmvlcagbmvbgRgvfgpzuugpzkfgaunuzvognriua:

gggggggggggggg“Argnrbrragfu rkizr.sagubgfuvgwvsira
gggggggggggggggFul kavguabglvbszv,gvorkesrgzuibv,gnuosbgar
gggggggggggggggUxzuxrkgrlawuzakagzuwzumul vagikzwkzuglvunka:”

ggggg[“Rpgftglvbszug.ug raprxszu gklotgqrbmgaorxmbgvl gpuqgnriua,gvl gra
gggggkbmuzqraugysab,grbgragvagrpgtksgamkso g.ovfugfkouagklgvgpvrzg.k tj”
gggggg--Mkzvbrsa,gAvbj,grjg6,g65j]

RgkqugrbgzvbmuzgbkgftgpkzbslugbmvlgftgzuvakljggAmugmvagivsau gfugbkg.u
 uaiul u gkpgvgzviugpvfksagpkzgrlbuxzrbtgvl gkpgvgnuztgxkk gpvbmuz;gR
clkqglkbgqmubmuzgkzglkgmugmvagrlpsau grlbkgfugwvzbgkpgmragmsfksza,gkz
qmubmuzg kfuabriguhvfwouagvl gbmugxkk gu sivbrklgkpgftgrlpvlitgmvnu
rlaular.otgvaarabu grlgbmugqkzc,gkz,grpgRgqvagkbmuzqraug.kzlgak:

gggggggggggggggggggg“AusgOr.zv,gausgfugAikzwrsagv awrirb
ggggggggggggggggggggPkzfr kokasa,gwvzagnrkoulbrkz
ggggggggggggggggggggLvbvoragmkza,gausgbtzvllsa
ggggggggggggggggggggMuawuzrnugIvwzrikzlsagsl vu:”

ggggg[“Qmubmuzgbmug.vovliugkzg zuv gAikzwrk,gfkzugwkbulbgknuzgftglvbvo
gggggmksz,gvawuibagfu,gkzgIvwzrikzl,gaswzufugknuzgbmugMuawuzrvlgauvj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg117j]

.sbgakgrbgra,gbmvbgRgmvnuglvbszvootgvgmkzzkzgpkzgfkabgnriuajggBmugvlaquz
kpgVlbrabmuluagbkgmrfgqmkgvacu gmrf,gqmrimgqvagbmug.uabgvwwzulbriuamrw
“bkgslouvzlgunro,”gauufagbkgwkrlbgvbgbmrajggRgmvnugbmufgrlgmkzzkz,gRgavt,
qrbmgvg ubuabvbrklgakglvbszvo,gvl gakgfsimgftgkql,gbmvbgbmugavfugrlabrlib
vl grfwzuaarklgRg.zksxmbgkpgbmufgqrbmgfugpzkfgftglszau,gRgtubgzubvrl,gvl 
lkgbufwbvbrklgqmvbunuzgmvagmv gbmugwkquzgbkgfvcugfugvobuzgrbjggLkbgak
fsimgvagftgkqlg raikszaua,gqmrimgrlgakfugbmrlxagovamrlxgksbgkpgbmugikffkl
zkv gfrxmbgauufguvarotgbkgoriulaugfugbkgvibrklagbmvbgftglvbszvo
rliorlvbrklgfvcuagfugmvbujggRgqroogavtgvgwzk rxrksagbmrlx,g.sbgRgqroogavt
rb,gmkqunuz:gRgprl gftauopgrlgfvltgbmrlxagfkzugsl uzgzuwsbvbrklg.tgft
fvlluzagbmvlg.tgftgkwrlrkl,gvl gftgikliswraiuliugouaag u.vsimu gbmvlgft
zuvakljggVzrabrwwsagrlabrbsbu gkwrlrklagakg.ko grlgpvnkszgkpgwouvaszugvl 
zrimuagvagaubgvoogbmugwmrokakwmuzagvxvrlabgmrf:g.sbgvagbkgmragfvlluza,
 rkltarsagbmugbtzvlb,gmvnrlxgwzuaulbu gbmzuug.uvsbrpsogqkfulg.upkzugmrf,
bkgbvcugmragimkriu;gmugfv ugvlaquz,gbmvbgmugqkso gimkkaugbmufgvoo,gvl 
bmvbgWvzragxkbgmrfauopgrlbkgbzks.ougpkzgmvnrlxgwzupuzzu gklug.upkzugbmu
kbmuzgbqk:g.sb,gmvnrlxgbvculgbmufgmkfugbkgmragmksau,gmugaulbgbmufg.vic
slbksimu jggMragauznvlbgprl rlxgmrfauopgknuzov ulgswklgbmugqvt,gqrbmgbmu
fklutgmugivzzru gvpbuzgmrf,gmugkz uzu gmrfgbkgwkszgksbgvl gbmzkqgvqvt
bmvbgqmrimgbzks.ou gmrfjggVl gUwriszsa,gqmkaug kibzrluagquzugak
rzzuorxrksagvl guppufrlvbu,gqvagrlgmragorpugnuztgov.kzrksagvl g unksb;
mugqzkbugbkgvgpzrul gkpgmragbmvbgmugornu gklotgswklg.raisrbgvl gqvbuz,
ulbzuvbrlxgmrfgbkgaul gmrfgvgorbbougimuuau,gbkgorug.tgmrfgvxvrlabgmugmv 
vgfrl gbkgfvcugvgpuvabjggFsabgrbg.ugbzsu,gbmvbgbkg.ugvgwuzpuibgxkk gfvl,
qugfsabg.ugakg.tgvlgkiisob,glvbszvo,gvl gslrnuzavogwzkwzrubt,gqrbmksb
ovq,gzuvakl,gkzguhvfwou?ggBmug u.vsimuagqmuzurlgRgmvnug.uulgulxvxu ,gmvnu
lkbg.uul,gRgbmvlcgXk ,gkpgbmugqkzabgakzb,gvl gRgmvnugikl uflu gbmufgrl
ftauop,gpkzgftgys xfulbgqvaglunuzgrlpuibu g.tgbmuf;gklgbmugiklbzvzt,
Rgviisaugbmufgfkzugaunuzuotgrlgftauopgbmvlgrlgvltgkbmuz;g.sbgbmvbgragvoo,
pkz,gvagbkgbmugzuabjggRgkwwkaugbkkgorbbougzuarabvliugvl gasppuzgftauopgbk
rliorlugbkkgfsimgbkgbmugkbmuzgar ugkpgbmug.vovliu,guhiuwbrlxgbmvbgR
fk uzvbugbmuf,gvl gwzunulbgbmufgpzkfgfrhrlxgqrbmgkbmuzgnriua,gqmrimgpkz
bmugfkabgwvzbgqroogiorlxgbkxubmuz,grpgvgfvlgmvnuglkbgvgivzujggRgmvnu
iklbzvibu gvl giszbvrou gfrlu,gbkgfvcugbmufgvagarlxougvl gvagarfwougvagR
ivl:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Luigsobzv
ggggggggggggggggggggUzzkzufgpknukj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Lkzg kgRgimuzramguzzkzgpszbmuzj”
ggggggggggggggggkz:g“Lkzgivzztgqzklxgpszbmuzj”
gggggggggggggggg--Ysnulvo,gnrrrjg164j]

PkzgvagbkgbmugkwrlrklgkpgbmugAbkria,gqmkgavt,g“Bmvbgbmugqraugfvlgqmulgmu
qkzca,gqkzcag.tgvoogbmugnrzbsuagbkxubmuz,gbmksxmgklug.ugfkabgvwwvzulb,
viikz rlxgbkgbmuglvbszugkpgbmugvibrkl”;gvl gmuzurlgbmugarfrorbs ugkpgv
msfvlg.k tgfrxmbgauznugbmufgakfuqmvb,gpkzgbmugvibrklgkpgvlxuzgivllkb
qkzc,gslouaagvoogbmugmsfkszagvaarabgrb,gbmksxmgimkouzgwzu kfrlvbu;
--rpgbmutgqroogbmuliug zvqgvgorcugiklauesuliu,gbmvbgqmulgbmugqricu gfvl
 kuagqricu ot,gmug kuagrbg.tgvoogbmugnriuagbkxubmuz,gRg kglkbg.uorunugrb
bkg.ugak,gkzguoaugRgsl uzabvl gbmufglkb,gpkzgRg.tguppuibgprl gbmu
iklbzvztjggBmuaugvzugamvzw,gslas.abvlbrvogas.oubrua,gqrbmgqmrim
wmrokakwmtgakfubrfuagvfsauagrbauopjggRgpkookqgakfugnriua,g.sbgRgpot
kbmuzagvagfsimgvagvgavrlbgqkso g kjggBmugWuzrwvbubriagvoakg rakqlgbmra
rl raakos.ougiklluibrkl;gvl gVzrabkbougragkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgvgwzs ulbgvl 
ysabgfvlgfvtg.ugrlbufwuzvbugvl grliklarabulbjggAkizvbuagiklpuaau gbkgakfu
qmkgmv g raiknuzu gvgiuzbvrlgrliorlvbrklgbkgnriugrlgmragwmtarkxlkft,gbmvb
rbgqva,grlgbzsbm,gmraglvbszvogwzkwularkl,g.sbgbmvbgmugmv g.tg rairworlu
ikzzuibu grbjggVl gasimgvagquzugpvfrorvzgqrbmgbmugwmrokakwmuzgAbrowk
avr ,gbmvbg.urlxg.kzlgqrbmgv  ribrklgbkgqrlugvl gqkful,gmugmv g.tgabs t
zul uzu gmrfauopgnuztgv.abrlulbg.kbmgpzkfgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzj

QmvbgRgmvnugrlgfugkpgxkk ,gRgmvnu,gesrbugiklbzvzt,g.tgbmugimvliugkpgft
.rzbm;gvl gmko grbglkbgurbmuzg.tgovq,gwzuiuwb,gkzgvltgkbmuzgrlabzsibrkl;
bmugrllkiuliugbmvbgragrlgfugragvgarfwougklu;gorbbougnrxkszgvl glkgvzbj
Vfklxabgkbmuzgnriua,gRgfkzbvootgmvbugizsuobt,g.kbmg.tglvbszugvl 
ys xfulb,gvagbmugnuztguhbzufugkpgvoognriua:glvt,gqrbmgakgfsimgbul uzluaa
bmvbgRgivllkbgauugvgimricul’agluicgwsoou gkppgqrbmksbgbzks.ou,gvl givllkb
qrbmksbgrfwvbruliugul szugbmugiztgkpgvgmvzugrlgftg kx’agbuubm,gbmksxmgbmu
imvaug.ugvgnrkoulbgwouvaszujggAsimgvagmvnugaulasvorbtgbkgulikslbuz,
pzuuotgfvcugsaugkpgbmragvzxsfulb,gbkgamuqgbmvbgrbgragvobkxubmuzg“nrirksa
vl gslzuvaklv.ou;gbmvbgqmulgrbgragvbgbmugmurxmb,grbgfvabuzagsagbkgbmvb
 uxzuugbmvbgvgfvl’agzuvaklgivlgmvnuglkgviiuaa,”gvl grlabvliugkszgkql
uhwuzruliugrlgbmugvibgkpgoknu,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Essfgyvfgwzvuavxrbgxvs rvgikzwsa,
ggggggggggggggggggggVbesugrlgukguabgNulsa,
ggggggggggggggggggggsbgfsoru.zrvgiklauzvbgvznvj”

ggggg[Lklugkpgbmugbzvlaovbkzagkpgbmugko gu rbrklagsau gpkzgbmragubuhb
gggggmvnug.uulgqroorlxgbkgbzvlaovbugbmragwvaavxugpzkfgOsizubrsa,grnj
ggggg1099;gbmutgbvcugvgikwgksbg.tg.vampsootgavtrlx:g“Bmugaulaugragrlgbmu
gggggwzuiu rlxgwvaavxugkpgbmugbuhbj”gg jQj]

qmuzurlgbmutgikliurnugbmvbgbmugwouvaszugakgbzvlawkzbagsa,gbmvbgkszgzuvakl
ivllkbgwuzpkzfgrbagkppriu,gqmroabgqugvzugrlgasimguiabvatgvl gzvwbszujggR
clkqgnuztgquoogrbgfvtg.ugkbmuzqrau,gvl gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgakfubrfua,grpgmu
qroo,gxvrlgbmragwkrlbgknuzgmrfauopgbkgaqvtgmragakso,gunulgrlgbmugizrbrivo
fkfulb,gbkgbmrlcgkpgakfubmrlxguoau;g.sbgbmulgmugfsabgwotgrbgbkgbmvbg.ulbj
Rgclkqgbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgbzrsfwmgknuzgbmugsbfkabguppkzbgkpgbmragwouvaszu:gR
mvnuguhwuzruliu grbgrlgftauop,gvl gmvnuglkbgpksl gNulsagakgrfwuzrksagv
xk  uaa,gvagfvlt,gvl gfsimgfkzugnrzbsksagfulgbmvlgR,g uiovzujggRg kglkb
iklar uzgrbgvgfrzviou,gvagbmugEsuulgkpgLvnvzzug kuagrlgklugkpgbmugBvoua
kpgmuzgMuwbvfuzkl--[“Nsgxulbrogorszugwkszgaklguabkppuj”]--(qmrimgragv
nuztgwzubbtg.kkcgkpgrbagcrl ),glkzgpkzgvgbmrlxgkpguhbzufug rpprisobt,gbk
wvaagqmkouglrxmba,gqmuzugvgfvlgmvagvoogbmugiklnulruliugvl gor.uzbtgmugivl
 uarzu,gqrbmgvgoklx-iknubu gfrabzuaa,gvl gtubg.ugbzsugbkgbmugwou xugprzab
xrnulgbkgavbraptgmrfauopgqrbmgcraauagvl gasimorcugul uvzfulba,gqrbmksb
wzuaarlxgvltgpszbmuzjggRgikliurnugbmvbgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmugwouvaszugkpgbmu
imvaugqkso g.ugfkzugwzkwuz;gqmuzurlgbmksxmgbmugwouvaszug.ugouaa,gbmuzugra
bmugmrxmuzguhirbufulbgkpgsluhwuibu gykt,gxrnrlxglkgbrfugpkzgbmugzuvakl,
bvculg.tgaszwzrau,gbkgwzuwvzugrbauopgpkzgbmugulikslbuz,gqmulgvpbuzgvgoklx
esuabgbmug.uvabgabvzbagswgklgvgas  ulgrlgvgwoviugqmuzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gqu
ouvabguhwuibu grb;gbmugamkicgvl gbmugvz kszgkpgbmugamksbagvl gizruagkp
bmugmslbuzagakgabzrcugsa,gbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugmvz gpkzgbmkaugqmkgoknugbmra
ouaauzgimvau,gbkgbszlgbmurzgbmksxmbagswklgbmugrlabvlbgvlkbmuzgqvt;gvl 
bmugwkubagfvcug rvlvgbzrsfwmgknuzgbmugbkzimgvl gamvpbagkpgIswr :

gggggggggggggg“Esraglklgfvovzsf,gesvagvfkzgiszvagmv.ub,
gggggggggggggggMvuigrlbuzgk.ornrairbsz?”

ggggg[“Qmk,gvfklxabgasimg uorxmbagqkso glkbgzufknugksbgkpgmragbmksxmba
gggggbmugvlhrksagivzuagkpgoknuj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,grrjg37j]

BkgzubszlgbkgqmvbgRgqvagavtrlxg.upkzu,gRgvfgbul uzotgikfwvaarklvbugkp
kbmuza’gvpporibrkla,gvl gamkso gzuv rotgiztgpkzgikfwvlt,grp,gswklgvlt
kiivarklgqmvbunuz,gRgikso giztgvbgvoojggLkbmrlxgbufwbagftgbuvzag.sb
buvza,gvl glkbgklotgbmkaugbmvbgvzugzuvogvl gbzsu,g.sbgqmvbunuzgbmutgvzu,
purxlu gkzgwvrlbu jggRg kglkbgfsimgovfulbgbmug uv ,gvl gamkso gulntgbmuf
zvbmuz;g.sbgRgnuztgfsimgovfulbgbmug trlxjggBmugavnvxuag kglkbgakgfsim
kppul gfu,grlgzkvabrlxgvl guvbrlxgbmug.k ruagkpgbmug uv ,gvagbmutg kgqmk
bkzfulbgvl gwuzauisbugbmugornrlxjggLvt,gRgivllkbgokkcgakgfsimgvagswklgbmu
kz rlvztguhuisbrklagkpgysabriu,gmkqgzuvaklv.ougakunuz,gqrbmgvgabuv tgutuj
AkfugklugmvnrlxgbkgxrnugbuabrfkltgkpgYsorsagIvuavz’agioufulit;g“mugqva,”
gavtagmu,g“fro grlgmragzunulxuajggMvnrlxgikfwuoou gbmugwrzvbuagbkgtruo g.t
qmkfgmugmv g.upkzug.uulgbvculgwzrakluzgvl gwsbgbkgzvlakf;gpkzvafsimgvagmu
mv gbmzuvbulu gbmufgqrbmgbmugizkaa,gmugrl uu gikl uflu gbmufgbkgrb,g.sb
rbgqvagvpbuzgbmutgmv g.uulgprzabgabzvlxou jggMugwslramu gmragauizubvzt
Wmroufkl,gqmkgmv gvbbufwbu gbkgwkraklgmrf,gqrbmglkgxzuvbuzgaunuzrbtgbmvl
fuzug uvbmj”ggQrbmksbglvfrlxgbmvbgOvbrlgvsbmkz,--[Asubklrsa,gOrpugkp
Ivavt,gijg74j]--qmkgbmsag vzuagbkgvoouxugvagvgbuabrfkltgkpgfuzitgbmu
croorlxgklotgkpgbmkaug.tgqmkfgqugmvnug.uulgkppul u ;grbgraguvatgbkgxsuaa
bmvbgmugqvagabzsicgqrbmgbmugmkzzr gvl grlmsfvlguhvfwouagkpgizsuobt
wzvibrau g.tgbmugZkfvlgbtzvlbaj

Pkzgftgwvzb,gunulgrlgysabriugrbauop,gvoogbmvbguhiuu agvgarfwoug uvbm
vwwuvzagbkgfugwszugizsuobt;guawuirvootgrlgsagqmkgksxmb,gmvnrlxgzuxvz gbk
bmurzgaksoa,gbkg rafraagbmufgrlgvgxkk gvl givofgikl rbrkl;gqmrimgivllkb
.u,gqmulgqugmvnugvxrbvbu gbmufg.tgrlasppuzv.ougbkzfulbajggLkbgoklxgarliu,
vgako ruzgqmkgqvagvgwzrakluz,gwuziurnrlxgpzkfgvgbkquzgqmuzugmugqvagamsb
sw,gbmvbgbmugwukwoug.uxvlgbkgvaauf.ougbkgbmugwoviugkpguhuisbrkl,gvl gbmvb
bmugivzwulbuzagquzug.satguzuibrlxgvgaivppko ,gmugwzuaulbotgiklios u 
bmvbgbmugwzuwvzvbrklgqvagpkzgmrf,gvl gbmuzupkzugulbuzu grlbkgvgzuakosbrkl
bkgcroogmrfauop,g.sbgikso gprl glkgrlabzsfulbgbkgvaarabgmrfgrlgmrag uarxl
uhiuwbgvlgko gzsabtgivzb-lvrogbmvbgpkzbslugwzuaulbu gbkgmrf;gqrbmgbmragmu
przabgxvnugmrfauopgbqkgxzuvbgqksl agv.ksbgmragbmzkvb,g.sbgprl rlxgbmuau
qkso glkbg k,gmugwzuaulbotgvpbuzqvz agxvnugmrfauopgvgbmrz grlgbmug.uoot,
qmuzugmugoupbgbmuglvrogabricrlxgswgbkgbmugmuv jggBmugprzabgkpgmragcuuwuza
qmkgivfugrlgpksl gmrfgrlgbmragikl rbrkl:gtubgvornu,g.sbgaslcg kqlgvl 
uhmvsabu g.tgmragqksl ajggBkgfvcugsaugkpgbrfu,gbmuzupkzu,g.upkzugmu
amkso g ru,gbmutgfv ugmvabugbkgzuv gmragaulbuliu;gqmrimgmvnrlxg klu,gvl 
mugmuvzrlxgbmvbgmugqvagklotgikl uflu gbkg.ug.umuv u ,gmugauufu gbkgbvcu
luqgikszvxu,gviiuwbu gqrlugqmrimgmugmv g.upkzugzupsau ,gvl gbmvlcu gmra
ys xuagpkzgbmugslmkwu -pkzgfro luaagkpgbmurzgaulbuliu;gavtrlx,gbmvbgmu
mv gbvculgvgzuakosbrklgbkg uawvbimgmrfauopgpkzgpuvzgkpgvgfkzugaunuzugvl 
rlaswwkzbv.oug uvbm,gmvnrlxgulbuzbvrlu gvlgkwrlrkl,g.tgbmugwzuwvzvbrkla
mugmv gauulgrlgbmugwoviu,gbmvbgbmutgquzugzuakonu gbkgbkzfulbgmrfgqrbm
akfugmkzzr.ouguhuisbrkl,gvl gauufu gbkg.ug uornuzu gpzkfg uvbmgrlgmvnrlx
rbgimvlxu gpzkfgqmvbgmugvwwzumul u j

Rgamkso gv nraugbmvbgbmkauguhvfwouagkpgaunuzrbtg.tgqmrimg‘brag uarxlu gbk
zubvrlgbmugwukwougrlgbmurzg sbt,gfrxmbg.uguhuzirau gswklgbmug uv g.k rua
kpgizrfrlvoa;gpkzgbkgauugbmufg uwzrnu gkpgauwsobszu,gbkgauugbmufg.krou 
vl g rnr u grlbkgesvzbuza,gqkso gvofkabgqkzcgvagfsimgswklgbmugnsoxvz,gva
bmugwvrlgbmutgfvcugbmugornrlxgul szu;gbmksxmgbmvbgrlguppuibg.ugorbbougkz
lkbmrlx,gvagXk gmrfauopgavta,g“Qmkgcroogbmug.k t,gvl gvpbuzgbmvbgmvnuglk
fkzugbmvbgbmutgivlg k;”--[Oscu,ghrrjgg4j]--vl gbmugwkubagarlxsovzot
 quoogswklgbmugmkzzkzagkpgbmragwribszu,gvagakfubmrlxgqkzaugbmvlg uvbm:

ggggggggg“Mus!gzuoresrvagaufrsabvagzuxra,g uls vbragkaar.sa,
ggggggggggWuzgbuzzvfgavlrug uor.sbvagpku ug rnuhvzruzj”

ggggg[“Vova!gbmvbgbmugmvop-.szlbgzufvrlagkpgbmugcrlx,guhwkarlxgmrag.klua,
gggggamkso g.ugpksootg zvxxu gvoklxgbmugxzksl g.uafuvzu gqrbmgxkzuj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grjg44j]

Rgmvwwulu gbkgikfug.tgklug vtgviir ulbvootgvbgZkfu,gysabgvagbmutgquzu
swklguhuisbrlxgIvbulv,gvglkbkzrksagzk..uz:gmugqvagabzvlxou gqrbmksbgvlt
ufkbrklgkpgbmugawuibvbkza,g.sbgqmulgbmutgivfugbkgisbgmrfgrlgesvzbuza,gbmu
mvlxfvlgxvnuglkbgvg.okqgbmvbgbmugwukwoug r glkbgpkookqgqrbmgvg koupsogizt
vl guhiovfvbrkl,gvagrpgunuztgklugmv goulbgmragaulaugkpgpuuorlxgbkgbmu
frauzv.ougivzivaujggBmkaugrlmsfvlguhiuaauagksxmbgbkg.uguhuzirau gswklgbmu
.vzc,gvl glkbgswklgbmugesricjggVzbvhuzhua,grlgvofkabgvgorcugivau,
fk uzvbu gbmugaunuzrbtgkpgbmugvlirulbgovqagkpgWuzarv,gkz vrlrlxgbmvbgbmu
lk.rorbtgqmkgmv gikffrbbu gvgpvsob,grlabuv gkpg.urlxgqmrwwu ,gvagbmut
quzugsau gbkg.u,gamkso g.ugabzrwwu gklotgvl gbmurzgiokbmuagqmrwwu gpkz
bmuf;gvl gbmvbgqmuzuvagbmutgquzugqklbgbkgbuvzgkppgbmurzgmvrz,gbmutgamkso 
klotgbvcugkppgbmurzgmrxm-izkqlu gbrvzvj’--[Wosbvzim,gLkbv.ougAvtrlxagkp
bmugVlirulbgCrlxj]--Bmugakg unksbgUxtwbrvlagbmksxmbgbmutgaspprirulbot
avbrapru gbmug rnrlugysabriug.tgavizrprirlxgmkxagrlgupprxtgvl 
zuwzuaulbvbrkl;gvg.ko grlnulbrklgbkgwvtgXk gakguaaulbrvogvgas.abvliugrl
wribszugklotgvl grlgamkqj

Rgornugrlgvgbrfugqmuzurlgqugv.ksl grlgrlizu r.ouguhvfwouagkpgbmragnriu,
bmzksxmgbmugoriuliugkpgkszgirnrogqvza;gvl gqugauuglkbmrlxgrlgvlirulb
mrabkzruagfkzuguhbzufugbmvlgqmvbgqugmvnugwzkkpgkpgunuztg vt,g.sbgR
ivllkb,gvltgbmugfkzu,gxubgsau gbkgrbjggRgikso gmvz otgwuzasv ugftauop,
.upkzugRgavqgrbgqrbmgftgutua,gbmvbgbmuzugikso g.ugpksl gaksoagakgizsuo
vl gpuoo,gqmk,gpkzgbmugakougwouvaszugkpgfsz uz,gqkso gikffrbgrb;gqkso 
mvicgvl gokwgkppgbmugorf.agkpgkbmuza;gamvzwulgbmurzgqrbagbkgrlnulb
slsasvogbkzfulbagvl gluqgcrl agkpg uvbm,gqrbmksbgmvbzu ,gqrbmksbgwzkprb,
vl gpkzglkgkbmuzgul g.sbgklotgbkgulyktgbmugwouvavlbgawuibviougkpgbmu
xuabszuagvl gfkbrkla,gbmugovfulbv.ougxzkvlagvl gizruagkpgvgfvlg trlxgrl
vlxsramjggPkzgbmragragbmugsbfkabgwkrlbgbkgqmrimgizsuobtgivlgvzzrnu:

gggggggggggggg“Sbgmkfkgmkfrluf,glklgrzvbsa,glklgbrfula,
gggggggggggggggbvlbsfgawuibvbszsa,gkiir vbj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgvgfvlgamkso gcroogvgfvl,glkbg.urlxgvlxzt,glkbgrlgpuvz,gklot
gggggpkzgbmugavcugkpgbmugawuibviouj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g90j]

Pkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gRgivllkbgqrbmksbgxzrupgauugakgfsimgvagvlgrllkiulbg.uvab
wszasu gvl gcroou gbmvbgmvaglkg upuliu,gvl gpzkfgqmrimgqugmvnugzuiurnu 
lkgkppuliugvbgvoo;gvl gbmvbgqmrimgpzuesulbotgmvwwula,gbmvbgbmugabvxgqu
mslb,gprl rlxgmrfauopgquvcgvl gksbgkpg.zuvbm,gvl gauurlxglkgkbmuzgzufu t,
aszzul uzagmrfauopgbkgsagqmkgwszasugmrf,grfwokzrlxgfuzitg.tgmragbuvza:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esuabsesugizsulbsa,
gggggggggggggggggggggggggVbesugrfwokzvlbrgarfrora,”

gggggggggg[“Qmk,g.ouu rlx,g.tgmragbuvzagauufagbkgizvnugfuzitj”
ggggggggggg--VUluv ,gnrrjg501j]

mvagunuzg.uulgbkgfugvgnuztgslwouvarlxgarxmb;gvl gRgmvz otgunuzgbvcugv
.uvabgvornugbmvbgRg kglkbgwzuaulbotgbszlgksbgvxvrljggWtbmvxkzvag.ksxmb
bmufgkpgpramuzfulgvl gpkqouzagbkg kgbmugavfu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Wzrfkesugvgivu ugpuzvzsf,
gggggggggggggggRlivosraaugwsbkgfvisovbsfgavlxsrlugpuzzsfj”


ggggg[“Rgbmrlcg‘bqvagaovsxmbuzgkpgqro g.uvabagbmvbgprzabgabvrlu gbmu
gggggabuuogkpgfvlgqrbmg.okk j”--Knr ,gFubj,ghnjg106j]

Bmkauglvbszuagbmvbgvzugavlxsrlvztgbkqvz ag.uvabag raiknuzgvglvbszvo
wzkluluaagbkgizsuobtjggVpbuzgbmutgmv gviisabkfu gbmufauonuagvbgZkfugbk
awuibviouagkpgbmugaovsxmbuzgkpgvlrfvoa,gbmutgwzkiuu u gbkgbmkaugkpgbmu
aovsxmbuzgkpgful,gkpgxov rvbkzajggLvbszugmvagmuzauop,gRgpuvz,grfwzrlbu 
rlgfvlgvgcrl gkpgrlabrlibgbkgrlmsfvlrbt;glk.k tgbvcuagwouvaszugrlgauurlx
.uvabagwovtgqrbmgvl givzuaagklugvlkbmuz,g.sbgunuztgklugrag uorxmbu gqrbm
auurlxgbmufg rafuf.uz,gvl gbuvzgklugvlkbmuzgbkgwruiuajggVl gbmvbgRgfvt
lkbg.ugovsxmu gvbgpkzgbmugatfwvbmtgRgmvnugqrbmgbmuf,gbmukokxtgrbauop
ulykrlagsagakfugpvnkszgrlgbmurzg.umvop;gvl giklar uzrlxgbmvbgklugvl gbmu
avfugfvabuzgmvagok xu gsagbkxubmuzgrlgbmragwvoviugpkzgmragauznriu,gvl 
bmvbgbmut,gvagquoogvagqu,gvzugkpgmragpvfrot,grbgmvagzuvaklgbkgulykrlgsa
akfugvppuibrklgvl gzuxvz gbkgbmufjggWtbmvxkzvag.kzzkqu gbmu
fubufwatimkaragpzkfgbmugUxtwbrvla;g.sbgrbgmvagarliug.uulgzuiurnu g.t
aunuzvoglvbrkla,gvl gwvzbrisovzotg.tgkszg zsr a:

gggggggggg“Fkzbugivzulbgvlrfvu;gaufwuzesu,gwzrkzugzuoriba
ggggggggggAu u,glknrag kfr.sagnrnslb,gmv.rbvlbesugzuiuwbvuj”

ggggg[“Aksoaglunuzg ru,g.sb,gmvnrlxgoupbgbmurzgpkzfuzgauvb,gornu
gggggvl gvzugzuiurnu grlbkgluqgmkfuaj”--Knr ,gFubj,ghnjg158j]

BmugzuorxrklgkpgkszgvlirulbgXvsoagfvrlbvrlu gbmvbgaksoa,g.urlxgubuzlvo,
lunuzgiuvau gbkgzufknugvl gamrpbgbmurzgwoviuagpzkfgklug.k tgbkgvlkbmuz;
frhrlxgfkzuknuzgqrbmgbmragpvlitgakfugiklar uzvbrklgkpg rnrlugysabriu;gpkz
viikz rlxgbkgbmug uwkzbfulbagkpgbmugakso,gqmroabgrbgmv g.uulgrl
Vouhvl uz,gbmutgavr gbmvbgXk gvaarxlu grbgvlkbmuzg.k tgbkgrlmv.rb,gfkzu
kzgouaagwvrlpso,gvl gwzkwuzgpkzgrbagikl rbrkl:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Fsbvgpuzvzsf
gggggggggggggggIkxrbgnrliovgwvbr;gbzsisoulbkagrlxuzrbgszara,
gggggggggggggggWzvu kluaesugoswra;gpvooviuagnsowr.sagv  rb:
gggggggggggggggVbesugs.rgwuzgnvzrkagvllka,gwuzgfroougprxszva

gggggggggggggggUxrb,gOubmvukgwszxvbkagposfrlu,gbvl uf
gggggggggggggggZszasagv gmsfvlvugzunkivbgwzrfkz rvgpkzfvu:”

ggggg[“Mugfvcuagbmufgquvzgbmugaroulbgimvrlagkpg.zsbua,gbmug.okk bmrzabt
gggggaksoagmuguliokauagrlg.uvza,gbmugbmrunuagrlgqkonua,gbmug uiurnuzagrl
gggggpkhua;gqmuzu,gvpbuzgasiiuaarnugtuvzagvl gvgbmksavl gpkzfa,gfvlgmv 
gggggawulbgmragorpu,gvl gvpbuzgwszxvbrklgrlgOubmu’agpokk ,gvbgovabgmu
gggggzuabkzuagbmufgbkgbmugwzrfkz rvogmsfvlgamvwuaj”
gggggg--Iovs rvl,gRlgZspj,grrjg482j]

Rpgrbgmv g.uulgnvorvlb,gmugok xu grbgrlgbmug.k tgkpgvgorkl;grp
nkoswbsksa,grlgbmvbgkpgvgmkx;grpgbrfkzksa,grlgbmvbgkpgvgmvzbgkzgmvzu;grp
fvorirksa,grlgbmvbgkpgvgpkh,gvl gakgkpgbmugzuab,gbroogmvnrlxgwszrpru grb
.tgbmragimvabraufulb,grbgvxvrlgulbuzu grlbkgbmug.k tgkpgakfugkbmuzgfvl:

ggggggggggggggg“Rwauguxkglvfgfufrlr,gBzkyvlr,gbufwkzug.uoor
gggggggggggggggWvlbmkr uagUswmkz.saguzvfj”

ggggg[“PkzgRgftauopgzufuf.uzgbmvb,grlgbmug vtagkpgbmugBzkyvlgqvz,gRgqva
gggggUswmkz.sa,gaklgkpgWvlbmusaj”--Knr ,gFubj,ghnjg160;gvl gauug rkxulua
gggggOvuzbrsa,gOrpugkpgWtbmvxkzvaj]

Vagbkgbmugzuovbrklamrwg.ubqrhbgsagvl g.uvaba,gRg kglkbgfsimgv frbgkpgrb;
lkzgkpgbmvbgqmrimgaunuzvoglvbrkla,gvl gbmkaugvfklxgbmugfkabgvlirulbgvl 
fkabglk.ou,gmvnugwzvibrau ,gqmkgmvnuglkbgklotgzuiurnu g.zsbuagrlbkgbmurz
akirubtgvl gikfwvlrklamrw,g.sbgmvnugxrnulgbmufgvgzvlcgrlprlrbuotgv.knu
bmufauonua,guabuufrlxgbmufgklugqmrougpvfrorvzagvl gpvnkszrbuagkpgbmu
xk a,gvl gmvnrlxgbmufgrlgfkzugbmvlgmsfvlgzunuzuliugvl gzuawuib;gkbmuza
viclkqou xu glkgkbmuzgxk gkzg rnrlrbtgbmvlgbmut:

gggggggggg“.uooshgvg.vz.vzragwzkwbuzg.uluprirsfgiklauizvbvuj”

ggggg[“.uvaba,gksbgkpgkwrlrklgkpgakfug.uluprbgzuiurnu g.tgbmuf,gquzu
gggggiklauizvbu g.tg.vz.vzrvla”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbszvg ukzj,grjg36j]


gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Izkik roklgv kzvb
gggggggggggggggWvzagmvui;groovgwvnubgavbszvfgauzwulbr.sagr.rl:
gggggggggggggggUpprxruagavizrgmriglrbubgvszuvgiuzikwrbmuir;
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggMrigwraiufgposfrlba,groori
gggggggggggggggKwwr vgbkbvgivlufgnuluzvlbszj”

ggggg[“Bmragwoviugv kzuagbmugizkik rou;gvlkbmuzg zuv agbmugr.ra,gpuu uz
gggggklgauzwulba;gmuzugamrluagbmugxko ulgrfvxugkpgbmugavizu gvwu;gmuzu
gggggfulgnuluzvbugbmugpramgkpgbmugzrnuz;gbmuzugqmkougbkqlagqkzamrwgv
ggggg kxj”--Ysnulvo,ghnjg2j]

Vl gbmugnuztgrlbuzwzubvbrklgbmvbgWosbvzim,gxrnuagbkgbmraguzzkz,gqmrimgra
nuztgquoogikliurnu ,gragv nvlbvxuksagbkgbmuf:gpkzgmugavtagbmvbgrbgqvaglkb
bmugivbgkzgbmugkh,gpkzguhvfwou,gbmvbgbmugUxtwbrvlagv kzu :g.sbgbmvbgbmut,
rlgbmkaug.uvaba,gv kzu gakfugrfvxugkpgbmug rnrlugpvisobrua;grlgbmra,
wvbruliugvl gsbrorbt:grlgbmvb,gnrnvirbt,gkz,gvagqrbmgkszglurxm.kszagbmu
.szxsl rvlagvl gvoogbmugXuzfvla,grfwvbruliugbkgauugbmufauonuagamsbgsw;g.t
qmrimgbmutgzuwzuaulbu gor.uzbt,gqmrimgbmutgoknu gvl gv kzu gv.knugvoo
kbmuzgxk orcugvbbzr.sbua,gvl gakgkpgbmugzuabjgg.sbgqmul,gvfklxabgbmugfkzu
fk uzvbugkwrlrkla,gRgfuubgqrbmgvzxsfulbagbmvbgul uvnkszgbkg ufklabzvbu
bmugluvzgzuauf.ovliug.ubqrhbgsagvl gvlrfvoa,gmkqgovzxugvgamvzugbmutgmvnu
rlgkszgxzuvbuabgwzrnrouxua,gvl gqrbmgmkqgfsimgwzk.v.rorbtgbmutgikfwvzugsa
bkxubmuz,gbzsotgRgv.vbugvgxzuvbg uvogkpgkszgwzuasfwbrkl,gvl gqroorlxot
zuarxlgbmvbgrfvxrlvztgaknuzurxlbtgbmvbgragvbbzr.sbu gbkgsagknuzgkbmuz
izuvbszuaj

.sbgaswwkarlxgvoogbmragquzuglkbgbzsu,gbmuzugraglunuzbmuouaagvgiuzbvrl
zuawuib,gvgxuluzvog sbtgkpgmsfvlrbt,glkbgklotgbkg.uvabagbmvbgmvnugorpu
vl gaulau,g.sbgunulgbkgbzuua,gvl gwovlbajggQugkqugysabriugbkgful,gvl 
xzvirksaluaagvl g.ulrxlrbtgbkgkbmuzgizuvbszuagbmvbgvzugivwv.ougkpgrb;
bmuzugragvgiuzbvrlgikffuziugvl gfsbsvogk.orxvbrklg.ubqrhbgbmufgvl gsaj
LkzgamvoogRg.ugvpzvr gbkgiklpuaagbmugbul uzluaagkpgftglvbszugakgimro ram,
bmvbgRgivllkbgquoogzupsaugbkgwovtgqrbmgftg kx,gqmulgmugbmugfkab
slauvaklv.otgrfwkzbsluagfugbkg kgakjggBmugBszcagmvnugvofagvl gmkawrbvoa
pkzg.uvabajggBmugZkfvlagmv gws.origivzugbkgbmuglkszramfulbgkpgxuuau,g.t
qmkaugnrxrovliugbmurzgIvwrbkogmv g.uulgwzuauznu jggBmugVbmulrvlagfv ugv
 uizuugbmvbgbmugfsouagvl gfktoagqmrimgmv gauznu gvbgbmug.sro rlxgkpgbmu
bufwougivoou gMuivbkfwu klgamkso g.ugpzuugvl gasppuzu gbkgwvabszugvb
bmurzgkqlgimkriu,gqrbmksbgmrl zvliujggBmugVxzrxulbrluaggmv gvgikffklgsau
akouflotgbkgrlbuzgbmug.uvabagbmutgmv gvgcrl luaagpkz,gvagmkzauagkpgakfu
zvzugesvorbt,g kxa,gvl gsaupsog.rz a,gvl gunulgbmkaugbmvbgmv gklotg.uul
cuwbgbkg rnuzbgbmurzgimro zul;gvl gbmugfvxlrpriuliugbmvbgqvagkz rlvzt
qrbmgbmufgrlgvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa,gvoakgwvzbrisovzotgvwwuvzu grlgbmu
asfwbskarbtgvl glsf.uzagkpgfklsfulbaguzuibu gbkgbmragul ,gvl gqmrim
zufvrlu grlgbmurzg.uvsbtgaunuzvogvxuagvpbuzjggBmugUxtwbrvlag.szru 
qkonua,g.uvza,gizkik roua,g kxa,gvl givbagrlgavizu gwoviua,guf.vofu 
bmurzg.k rua,gvl gwsbgklgfkszlrlxgvbgbmurzg uvbmjggIrfklgxvnugvl
mklkszv.ougauwsobszugbkgbmugfvzuagqrbmgqmrimgmugmv gbmzuugbrfuagxvrlu 
bmugwzrdugkpgbmugikszaugvbgbmugKotfwrigXvfuajggBmugvlirulbgHvlbrwwsa
ivsau gmrag kxgbkg.ugrlbuzzu gklgvlgufrluliugluvzgbmugauv,gqmrimgmvagunuz
arliugzubvrlu gbmuglvfu,gvl gWosbvzimgavta,gbmvbgmugmv gvgaizswougv.ksb
auoorlxgpkzgvgafvoogwzkprbgbkgbmugaovsxmbuzuzgvlgkhgbmvbgmv g.uulgoklxgrl
mragauznriuj



ImvwbuzgHRRjggVwkokxtgPkzgZvrfkl gAu.kl j

Ouvzlrlxgra,grl uu ,gvgnuztgxzuvbgvl gvgnuztgfvbuzrvogviikfworamfulb;
vl gbmkaugqmkg uawraugrbgaspprirulbotg raiknuzgbmurzgkqlgqvlbgkp
sl uzabvl rlx;g.sbgouvzlrlxgtubgRg kglkbgwzrdugrbgvbgbmuguhiuaarnugzvbu
bmvbgakfugkbmuzag k,gvagMuzroosa,gbmugwmrokakwmuz,gpkzgklu,gqmkgbmuzurl
woviuagbmugaknuzurxlgxkk ,gvl gfvrlbvrlu g“Bmvbgrbgqvagklotgrlgmuzgbk
zul uzgsagqraugvl giklbulbu ,”gqmrimgRg kglkbg.uorunu;glkgfkzugbmvlgR
 kgqmvbgkbmuzagmvnugavr ,gbmvbgouvzlrlxgragbmugfkbmuzgkpgvoognrzbsu,gvl 
bmvbgvoognriugwzkiuu agpzkfgrxlkzvliu,gqmrim,grpgrbg.ugbzsu,gzuesrzu 
vgnuztgoklxgrlbuzwzubvbrkljgFtgmksaugmvagoklx-.uulgkwulgbkgfulgkp
clkqou xu,gvl gragnuztgquoogclkqlgbkgbmuf;gpkzgftgpvbmuz,gqmkgxknuzlu 
rbgprpbtgtuvzagvl gswqvz a,grlpovfu gqrbmgbmugluqgvz kszgqrbmgqmrim
PzvliragbmugPrzabguf.zviu goubbuza,gvl g.zksxmbgbmufgrlbkguabuuf,gqrbm
xzuvbg rorxuliugvl guhwulaugmslbu gvpbuzgbmugviesvrlbvliugkpgouvzlu 
ful,gzuiurnrlxgbmufgrlbkgmragmksaugvagwuzaklagavizu ,gvl gbmvbgmv gakfu
wvzbrisovzgrlawrzvbrklgkpg rnrlugqra kf;gikoouibrlxgbmurzgavtrlxagvl 
aulbuliuagvagakgfvltgkzvioua,gvl gqrbmgakgfsimgbmugxzuvbuzgzunuzuliu
vl gzuorxrklgvagmugqvagbmugouaagv.ougbkgys xugkpgbmuf;gpkzgmugmv glk
clkqou xugkpgoubbuzagvltgfkzugbmvlgmragwzu uiuaakzajgPkzgftgwvzbgRgoknu
bmufgquoo,g.sbgRg kglkbgv kzugbmufjgVfklxabgkbmuza,gWubuzg.sluo,gvgfvl
kpgxzuvbgzuwsbvbrklgpkzgclkqou xugrlgmragbrfu,gmvnrlx,gqrbmgakfugkbmuza
kpgmragakzb,gabvr gakfug vtagvbgFklbvrxlugrlgftgpvbmuz’agikfwvlt,
mugwzuaulbu gmrfgvbgmrag uwvzbszugqrbmgvg.kkc,gulbrbou g_Bmukokxrv
lvbszvora;garnugOr.uzgIzuvbszvzsf,gfvxrabzrgZvrfkl rg ugAu.kl uj_gVl gva
bmugRbvorvlgvl gAwvlramgbklxsuagquzugpvfrorvzgbkgftgpvbmuz,gvl gvagbmra
.kkcgqvagqzrbbulgrlgvgakzbgkpgyvzxklgkpgAwvlramgqrbmgOvbrlgbuzfrlvbrkla,
mugmkwu gbmvb,gqrbmgvgorbbougmuow,gmugfrxmbg.ugv.ougbkgsl uzabvl grb,
vl gbmuzupkzugzuikfful u grbgbkgmrfgpkzgvgnuztgsaupsog.kkc,gvl gwzkwuz
bkzgbmugbrfugqmuzurlgmugxvnugrbgbkgmrf;gqmrimgqvagqmulgbmuglknuo
 kibzrluagkpgOsbmuzg.uxvlgbkg.ugrlgnkxsu,gvl grlgfvltgwoviuagbkgabvxxuz
kszgvlirulbg.uorup:gqmuzurlgmugqvagnuztgquoogv nrau ,gqrauot,grlgmragkql
zuvakl,gpkzuauurlxgbmvbgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgbmrag rabufwuzgqkso guvarot
zslgrlbkgvlguhuizv.ougvbmuraf,gpkzgbmugnsoxvz,glkbgmvnrlxgbmugpvisobtgkp
ys xrlxgkpgbmrlxa,gasppuzrlxgbmufauonuagbkg.ugivzzru gvqvtg.tgimvliugvl 
vwwuvzvliu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgkliug.uulgrlawrzu gqrbmgbmug.ko luaagbk
 uawraugvl giklbzkogbmkaugkwrlrklagqmrimgbmutgmv g.upkzugmv grlguhbzufu
zunuzuliu,gasimgvagbmkaugqmuzurlgbmurzgavonvbrklgragikliuzlu ,gvl 
bmvbgakfugkpgbmugvzbriouagkpgbmurzgzuorxrklgvzug.zksxmbgrlbkg ks.bgvl 
 rawsbu,gbmutgvpbuzqvz agbmzkqgvoogkbmuzgwvzbagkpgbmurzg.uorupgrlbkgbmu
avfugsliuzbvrlbt,gbmutgmvnrlxgqrbmgbmufglkgkbmuzgvsbmkzrbtgkzgpksl vbrkl
bmvlgbmugkbmuzagbmutgmv gvozuv tg raikfwkau ;gvl gamvcugkppgvoogbmu
rfwzuaarklagbmutgmv gzuiurnu gpzkfgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmugovqa,gkzgbmu
zunuzuliugkpgbmugvlirulbgisabkfa,gvagvgbtzvllrivogtkcu:


gggLvfgiswr uguklisoivbszglrfragvlbugfubsbsf;


ggg“Pkzgqrbmgfkabguvxuzluaagbmutgawszlgbmugovq,
ggg.tgqmrimgbmutgquzug.upkzugfkabgcuwbgrlgvqu;”


zuakonrlxgbkgv frbglkbmrlxgpkzgbmugpsbszugbkgqmrimgbmutgmv glkbgprzab
rlbuzwkau gbmurzgkqlg uizuua,gvl gxrnulgbmurzgwvzbrisovzgiklaulbj

Rbgmvwwulu gbmvbgftgpvbmuz,gvgorbboug.upkzugmrag uvbm,gmvnrlx
viir ulbvootgpksl gbmrag.kkcgsl uzgvgmuvwgkpgkbmuzgluxouibu gwvwuza,
ikffvl u gfugbkgbzvlaovbugrbgpkzgmrfgrlbkgPzulimjgRbgragxkk gbkk
bzvlaovbugasimgvsbmkzagvagbmra,gqmuzugbmuzugragorbboug.sbgbmugfvbbuz
rbauopgbkguhwzuaa;g.sbgasimgqmuzurlgxzviugkpgovlxsvxugvl guouxvliugkp
abtougvzugvrfu gvb,gvzug vlxuzksagbkgvbbufwb,guawuirvootgqmulgvgfvlgra
bkgbszlgbmufgrlbkgvgquvcuzgr rkfjgRbgqvagvgabzvlxugvl gvgluqgsl uzbvcrlx
pkzgfu;g.sbgmvnrlxg.tgimvliugvbgbmvbgbrfuglkbmrlxguoaugbkg k,gvl glkb
.urlxgv.ougbkgzuarabgbmugikffvl gkpgbmug.uabgpvbmuzgbmvbgunuzgqva,gRg r 
rbgvagquoogvagRgikso ;gvl gmugqvagakgquoogwouvau gqrbmgrbgvagbkgkz uzgrb
bkg.ugwzrlbu ,gqmrimgvpbuzgmrag uvbmgqvag kluj

Rgpksl gbmugr uvagkpgbmragvsbmkzguhiuu rlxgprlugbmugiklbuhbszugkpgmra
qkzcgquoogpkookqu ,gvl gmrag uarxlgpsoogkpgwrubt;gvl g.uivsaugfvlt
wukwougbvcugvg uorxmbgbkgzuv grb,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbmugov rua,gbkgqmkf
qugkqugbmugfkabgauznriu,gRgmvnugkpbulgbmksxmbgbkgvaarabgbmufgbkgiouvz
bmug.kkcgkpgbqkgwzrlirwvogk.yuibrklagfv ugbkgrbjgMrag uarxlgrag.ko gvl 
 vzrlx,gpkzgmugsl uzbvcua,g.tgmsfvlgvl glvbszvogzuvakla,gbkguabv.oram
vl gfvcugxkk ,gvxvrlabgbmugvbmuraba,gvoogbmugvzbriouagkpgbmugImzrabrvl
zuorxrkl:gqmuzurl,gbkgawuvcgbmugbzsbm,gmugragakgprzfgvl gakgasiiuaapso
bmvbgRg kglkbgbmrlcgrbgwkaar.ougbkg kg.ubbuzgswklgbmvbgas.yuib;glvt,gR
.uorunugmugmvag.uulguesvoou g.tglklujgBmragqkzcgauufrlxgbkgfugbkg.ugbkk
.uvsbrpsogvl gbkkgzrimgpkzgvlgvsbmkzgqmkauglvfugragakgorbbougclkql,gvl 
kpgqmkfgvoogbmvbgqugclkqgragbmvbgmugqvagvgAwvlrvz ,gwzvibrarlxgwmtarigvb
Bksoksaugv.ksbgbqkgmsl zu gtuvzagvxk;gRgulesrzu gkpgV zrvlgBszlu.sa,gqmk
cluqgvoogbmrlxa,gqmvbgmugbmksxmbgkpgbmvbg.kkc;gqmkgfv ugvlaquz,g“Bmvbgmu
bmksxmbgrbgqvagakfugv.abzvibg zvqlgpzkfgAbjgBmkfvag ’Vesrl;gpkzgbmvb,grl
bzsbm,gmragfrl ,gakgpsoogkpgrlprlrbuguzs rbrklgvl gv frzv.ougas.boubt,
qvagvoklugivwv.ougkpgasimgbmksxmbaj”g.ugbmragvagrbgfvt,gqmkunuzgqvagbmu
vsbmkzgvl grlnulbkzg(vl g‘braglkbgzuvaklv.ou,gqrbmksbgxzuvbuzgiuzbvrlbt,
bkg uwzrnugAu.kl gkpgbmvbgbrbou),gmugqvagvgfvlgkpgxzuvbgys xfulbgvl 
fkabgv frzv.ougwvzbaj

Bmugprzabgbmrlxgbmutgzuwzumul grlgmragqkzcgrag“BmvbgImzrabrvlagvzugbk
.ovfugbkgzuwkaugbmurzg.uorupgswklgmsfvlgzuvakl,gqmrimgragklotgikliurnu 
.tgpvrbmgvl gbmugwvzbrisovzgrlawrzvbrklgkpg rnrlugxzviuj”gRlgqmrim
k.yuibrklgbmuzugvwwuvzagbkg.ugakfubmrlxgkpgduvogbkgwrubt,gvl gbmuzupkzu
qugvzugbkgul uvnkszgbkgavbraptgbmkaugqmkgwsbgrbgpkzbmgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuz
fro luaagvl gzuawuibjgBmragquzugvgbvacgfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgvgfvlgquoo
zuv grlg rnrlrbtgbmvlgpkzgfu,gqmkgclkqglkbmrlxgkpgrb;glunuzbmuouaa,gR
ikliurnugbmvbgrlgvgbmrlxgakg rnrlu,gakgmrxm,gvl gakgpvzgbzvlaiul rlx
voogmsfvlgrlbuoorxuliu,gvagragbmvbgbzsbm,gqrbmgqmrimgrbgmvagwouvau 
bmug.kslbtgkpgXk gbkgulorxmbulgsa,grbgragnuztgluiuaavztgbmvbgmugamkso 
fkzuknuzgoul gsagmragvaarabvliu,gvagvgnuztguhbzvkz rlvztgpvnkszgvl 
wzrnrouxu,gbkgikliurnugvl grfwzrlbgrbgrlgkszgsl uzabvl rlxjgVl gRg k
lkbg.uorunugbmvbgfuvlagwszuotgmsfvlgvzugrlgvltgakzbgivwv.ougkpg krlxgrb:
pkz,grpgbmutgquzu,gakgfvltgzvzugvl guhiuooulbgaksoa,gvl gakgv.sl vlbot
pszlramu gqrbmglvbszvogpkziu,grlgpkzfuzgvxua,gikso glkbgmvnugpvrou ,
.tgbmurzgzuvakl,gbkgvzzrnugvbgbmragclkqou xujg‘Bragpvrbmgvoklugbmvb
ornuorotgfrl giuzbvrlotgikfwzumul agbmug uuwgftabuzruagkpgkszgzuorxrkl;
.sb,gqrbmvo,gRg kglkbgavtgbmvbgrbgraglkbgvgqkzbmtgvl gnuztgovs v.ou
vbbufwbgbkgviikffk vbugbmkauglvbszvogvl gmsfvlgsbularoagqrbmgqmrimgXk 
mvagul kqu gsagbkgbmugauznriugkpgkszgpvrbm:grbgraglkbgbkg.ug ks.bu g.sb
bmvbgrbgragbmugfkabglk.ougsaugqugivlgwsbgbmufgbk;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkb
vg uarxlgrlgvgImzrabrvlgfvlgfkzuglk.ougbmvlgbkgfvcugrbgbmugvrfgvl gul 
kpgvoogmragabs ruagbkguhbul gvl gvfworptgbmugbzsbmgkpgmrag.uorupjgQug k
lkbgavbraptgkszauonuagqrbmgauznrlxgXk gqrbmgkszgaksoagvl gsl uzabvl rlxa
klot,gqugfkzuknuzgkqugvl gzul uzgmrfgvgikzwkzvogzunuzuliu,gvl gvwwotgksz
orf.agvl gfkbrkla,gvl guhbuzlvogbmrlxagbkg kgmrfgmklksz;gqugfsabgmuzu
 kgbmugavfu,gvl gviikfwvltgkszgpvrbmgqrbmgvoogbmugzuvaklgqugmvnu,g.sb
voqvtagqrbmgbmragzuauznvbrkl,glkbgbkgpvlitgbmvbgrbgragswklgsagbmvb
rbg uwul a,glkzgbmvbgkszgvzxsfulbagvl gul uvnkszagivlgvzzrnugvbgak
aswuzlvbszvogvl g rnrlugvgclkqou xujgRpgrbgulbuzaglkbgrlbkgsag.tgvl
uhbzvkz rlvztgrlpsarkl;grpgrbgulbuzaglkbgklotg.tgzuvakl,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,
.tgmsfvlgqvta,grbgraglkbgrlgsagrlgrbagbzsug rxlrbtgvl gawoul ksz:gvl 
tub,gRgvfgvpzvr ,gqugklotgmvnugrbg.tgbmragqvtj

Rpgqugmko gswklgXk g.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgvgornuotgpvrbm;grpgqugmko gswkl
Xk g.tgmrf,gvl glkbg.tgsa;grpgqugmv gvg rnrlug.varagvl gpksl vbrkl,
msfvlgkiivarklagqkso glkbgmvnugbmugwkquzgbkgamvcugsagvagbmutg k;gksz
pkzbzuaagqkso glkbgaszzul uzgbkgakgquvcgvg.vbbuzt;gbmugoknugkpglknuobt,
bmugiklabzvrlbgkpgwzrliua,gbmugasiiuaagkpgklugwvzbt,gvl gbmugzvamgvl 
pkzbsrbksagimvlxugkpgkszgkwrlrkla,gqkso glkbgmvnugbmugwkquzgbkgabvxxuz
vl gvobuzgkszg.uorup:gqugamkso glkbgbmulgouvnugrbgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgunuzt
luqgvzxsfulb,glkzgv.vl klgrbgbkgvoogbmugzmubkzrigrlgbmugqkzo ;gqugamkso 
qrbmabvl gbmugpsztgkpgbmuaugqvnuagqrbmgvlgrffknv.ougvl gsltruo rlx
iklabvlit:


gggVagvgxzuvbgzkicgzuwuoagbmugzkoorlxgbr ua,

gggBmvbgpkvfgvl g.vzcgv.ksbgmuzgfvz.ougar ua,
gggPzkfgrbagabzklxg.soc


Rpgqugquzug.sbgbksimu gqrbmgbmragzvtgkpg rnrlrbt,grbgqkso gvwwuvz
bmzksxmksb;glkbgklotgkszgqkz a,g.sbgkszgqkzcagvoak,gqkso givzzt
rbag.zrxmbluaagvl gosabzu;gqmvbunuzgwzkiuu u gpzkfgsagqkso g.ugauul
roosfrlvbu gqrbmgbmraglk.ougorxmbjgQugksxmbgbkg.ugvamvfu gbmvb,grlgvoo
bmugmsfvlgauiba,gbmuzuglunuzgqvagvltgkpgbmugpvibrkl,gbmvbg r glkb,grl
akfugfuvaszu,giklpkzfgmragorpugvl g.umvnrkszgbkgrb,gqmuzuvagakg rnrlu
vl gmuvnulotgvlgrlabrbsbrklg kuagklotg rabrlxsramgImzrabrvlag.tgbmu
lvfu!gQroogtksgauugbmugwzkkpgkpgbmra?gIkfwvzugkszgfvlluzagbkgbmkaugkpgv
FvmkfubvlgkzgWvxvl,gtksgqroogabroogprl gbmvbgqugpvoognuzt

amkzb;gbmuzu,gqmuzu,gksbgkpgzuxvz gbkgbmugzuwsbvbrklgvl gv nvlbvxugkp
kszgzuorxrkl,gqugksxmbgbkgamrlugrlguhiuooulitgvbgvgnvabg rabvliug.utkl 
voogkbmuza:gvl gbmvbgrbgamkso g.ugavr gkpgsa,g“Vzugbmutgakgysab,gak
imvzrbv.ou,gakgxkk :gBmulgbmutgvzugImzrabrvlaj”gVoogkbmuzgarxlagvzu
ikffklgbkgvoogzuorxrkla;gmkwu,gbzsab,gunulba,giuzufklrua,gwulvliu,

fvzbtzajgBmugwuisorvzgfvzcgkpgkszgbzsbmgksxmbgbkg.ugkszgnrzbsu,gvagrb
ragvoakgbmugfkabgmuvnulotgvl g rpprisob,gvl gbmugfkabgqkzbmtgwzk sib
kpgbzsbmjgPkzgbmragkszgxkk gAbjgOksragqvagrlgbmugzrxmb,gqmk,gqmulgbmu
Bvzbvzgcrlx,gqmkgqvag.uikfugImzrabrvl,g uarxlu gbkgikfugbkgOtklagbkgcraa
bmugWkwu’agpuub,gvl gbmuzugbkg.ugvlgutu-qrbluaagkpgbmugavlibrbtgmugmkwu 
bkgprl grlgkszgfvlluz,grffu rvbuotg rnuzbu gmrfgpzkfgmragwszwkau;gpkz
puvzgouabgkszg rakz uzotgqvtgkpgornrlxgamkso ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gwsb
mrfgksbgkpgikliurbgqrbmgakgmkotgvg.uorup!gVl gtubgrbgmvwwulu gesrbu
kbmuzqraugarliugbkgbmvbgkbmuz,gqmk,gxkrlxgbkgZkfu,gbkgbmugavfugul ,gvl 
bmuzugauurlxgbmug raakosbuluaagkpgbmugwzuovbuagvl gwukwougkpgbmvbgbrfu,
aubbou gmrfauopgakgfsimgbmugfkzugprzfotgrlgkszgzuorxrkl,giklar uzrlx
mkqgxzuvbgbmugpkziugvl g rnrlrbtgkpgrbgfsabgluiuaavzrotg.ugbmvbgikso 
fvrlbvrlgrbag rxlrbtgvl gawoul kszgvfklxgakgfsimgikzzswbrkl,gvl grlgak
nrirksagmvl ajgRpgqugmv g.sbgklugarlxougxzvrlgkpgpvrbm,gqugamkso gzufknu
fkslbvrlagpzkfgbmurzgwoviua,gavrbmgbmugavizu gQkz ;gkszgvibrkla,gbmvb
qkso gbmulg.ug rzuibu gvl gviikfwvlru g.tgbmug rnrlrbt,gqkso glkbg.u
fuzuotgmsfvl,gbmutgqkso gmvnugrlgbmufgakfubmrlxgkpgfrzvisoksa,gvagquoo
vagkszg.uorup:g_.zunraguabgrlabrbsbrkgnrbægmkluabæg.uvsæesu,gar
izu kaj_g“.uorunu,gvl gbmugqvtgbkgmvwwrluaagvl gnrzbsugragvgamkzbgkluj”
gAkfugrfwkaugswklgbmugqkzo gbmvbgbmutg.uorunugbmvbgqmrimgbmutg kglkb;
kbmuza,gfkzugrlglsf.uz,gfvcugbmufauonuag.uorunugbmvbgbmutg.uorunu,glkb
.urlxgv.ougbkgwulubzvbugrlbkgqmvbgrbgragbkg.uorunujgQugbmrlcgrbgabzvlxu
rp,grlgbmugirnrogqvzgqmrim,gvbgbmragbrfu,g rakz uzagkszgabvbu,gqugauu
unulbagpokvbgvl gnvztgvoouzgvgikffklgvl gkz rlvztgfvlluz;gqmrimgra
.uivsaugqug.zrlxglkbmrlxgbkgrbg.sbgkszgkqljgYsabriu,gqmrimgragrlgklu
wvzbt,gragklotgbmuzugpkzgkzlvfulbgvl gwvoorvbrkl;grb,gra,grl uu ,
wzubul u ,g.sbg‘braglkbgbmuzugzuiurnu ,gaubbou gvl guawksau :grbgra
bmuzu,gvagrlgbmugfksbmgkpgvlgv nkivbu,glkbgvagrlgbmugmuvzbgvl gvppuibrkl
kpgbmugwvzbtjgXk gkquagmraguhbzvkz rlvztgvaarabvliugbkgpvrbmgvl 
zuorxrkl;glkbgbkgkszgwvaarklajgFulgbmuzugvzugbmugikl sibkza,gvl gbmuzurl
auznugbmufauonuagqrbmgzuorxrkl,gqmuzuvagrbgksxmbgbkg.ugesrbugiklbzvztj
K.auznu,grpgrbg.uglkbg.tgkszgkqlgmvl agbmvbgqugxsr ugvl gbzvrlgrb,gvl 
 zvqgrbgorcugqvhgrlbkgakgfvltgiklbzvztgprxszua,gpzkfgvgzsougrlgrbauopgak
 rzuibgvl gprzfjgQmulgvl gqmuzugqvagbmragfkzugfvlrpuabgbmvlgrlgPzvliugrl
kszg vta?gBmutgqmkgmvnugbvculgrbgklgbmugoupbgmvl ,gbmutgqmkgmvnugbvcul
rbgklgbmugzrxmb;gbmutgqmkgivoogrbg.ovic,gbmutgqmkgivoogrbgqmrbu,gvorcu
ufwoktgrbgbkgbmurzgnrkoulbgvl gvf.rbrksag uarxla,gikl sibgrbgqrbm
vgwzkxzuaa,gakgiklpkzfgrlgzrkbgvl grlysabriugbmvbgbmutgzul uzgbmu
 rnuzarbtgbmutgwzubul u grlgbmurzgkwrlrkla,grlgvgbmrlxgqmuzuklgbmu
ikl sibgvl gzsougkpgkszgorpug uwul a,g ks.bpsogvl gmvz gbkg.uorunujg r 
klugunuzgauu,gikfugpzkfgbmugavfugaimkkogvl g rairworlu,gfvlluzagfkzu
slrbu ,gvl gfkzugbmugavfu?g kg.sbgk.auznugqrbmgqmvbgmkzzr grfws uliu
qugbkaag rnrlugvzxsfulbagbkgvl gpzk,gvl gmkqgrzzuorxrksaotgqugmvnug.kbm
zuyuibu gvl gzubvculgbmuf,gviikz --vagpkzbslugmvagamrpbu gkszgwoviuagrl
bmuaugrlbuabrlugabkzfaj

Bmragakgakouflgwzkwkarbrkl,g“Qmubmuzgrbg.ugovqpsogpkzgvgas.yuibgbkgzu.uo
vl gbvcugswgvzfagvxvrlabgmragwzrliugpkzgbmug upuliugkpgmragzuorxrkl,”g k
tksgzufuf.uzgrlgqmkaugfksbma,gbmugovabgtuvz,gbmugvpprzfvbrnugkpgrb
qvagbmugwzkwgkpgklugwvzbt,gvl gbmugluxvbrnugbmugwroovzgkpgvlkbmuz?gVl 
muvzculglkqgpzkfgqmvbgesvzbuzgikfuagbmugnkriugvl grlabzsibrklgkpgbmu
klugvl gbmugkbmuz,gvl grpgvzfagfvcugouaaglkraugvl gzvbbougpkzgbmragivsau
bmvlgpkzgbmvbjgQugikl uflgbmkaugbkgbmugprzugqmkgavtgbmvbgbzsbmgfsabg.u
fv ugbkg.uvzgbmugtkcugkpgkszgluiuaarbt;gvl gmkqgfsimgqkzaug kuagPzvliu
bmvlgavtgrb?gOubgsagiklpuaagbmugbzsbm;gqmkunuzgamkso g zvqgksbgpzkfgbmu
vzft,gunulgbmvbgzvrau g.tgbmugcrlx,gbmkaugqmkgbvcugswgvzfagksbgkpgwszu
duvogbkgzuorxrkl,gvl gvoakgbmkaugqmkgklotg kgrbgbkgwzkbuibgbmugovqagkp
bmurzgikslbzt,gkzgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgbmurzgwzrliu,gikso gmvz ot,gksb
kpg.kbmgbmuaugwsbgbkxubmuz,gfvcugklugikfwoubugikfwvltgkpgxula- ’vzfuaj
Qmuliug kuagbmragwzkiuu ,gbmvbgbmuzugvzugakgpuqgbkg.ugpksl gqmkgmvnu
fvrlbvrlu gbmugavfugqroogvl gbmugavfugwzkxzuaagrlgkszgirnrogikffkbrkla,
vl gbmvbgqugauugbmufgklugqmrougfknug.sbgvgpkkb-wviu,gvl gvlkbmuzgzsl
psoogawuu ?gvl gbmugavfugfulgklugqmroug vfvxugkszgvppvrzag.tgbmurz
nrkoulbgmuvbgvl gpruziuluaa,gvl gvlkbmuzg.tgbmurzgiko luaa,gxulbouluaa,
vl gaokqluaa;g.sbgbmvbgbmutgvzugwsamu gklg.tgwvzbrisovzgvl givasvo
iklar uzvbrkla,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugnvzrubtgqmuzurlgbmutgfknu?

Rgunr ulbotgwuziurnugbmvbgqug kglkbgqroorlxotgvppkz g unkbrklgvltgkbmuz
kppriuag.sbgbmkaugbmvbgouvabgasrbgqrbmgkszgkqlgwvaarklaj

Bmuzugmkabrorbtgakgv frzv.ougvagbmugImzrabrvljgKszgduvogwuzpkzfa
qkl uza,gqmulgrbgauikl agkszgrliorlvbrklagbkgmvbzu ,gizsuobt,gvf.rbrkl,
vnvzriu,g ubzvibrkl,gvl gzu.uoorkl:g.sbgqmulgrbgfknua,gvxvrlabgbmugmvrz,
bkqvz ag.kslbt,g.ulrxlrbt,gvl gbufwuzvliu,gslouaa,g.tgfrzviou,gakfu
zvzugvl gnrzbsksag rawkarbrklgwzkfwbagsagbkgrb,gqugabrzglurbmuzgmvl glkz
bkkbjgKszgzuorxrklgragrlbul u gbkguhbrzwvbugnriua,gqmuzuvagrbgaizuula,
lkszramua,gvl grlirbuagbmufjgQugfsabglkbgfkicgXk jgRpgqug.uorunu grl
mrf,gRg kglkbgavtg.tgpvrbm,g.sbgqrbmgvgarfwoug.uorup,gbmvbgragbkgavt
(vl gRgawuvcgrbgbkgkszgxzuvbgamvfu)grpgqug.uorunu grlgmrfgvl gzuikxlrau 
mrfgvagqug kgvltgkbmuzgmrabkzt,gkzgvagqugqkso g kgklugkpgkszgikfwvlrkla,
qugamkso goknugmrfgv.knugvoogkbmuzgbmrlxagpkzgbmugrlprlrbug.kslbtgvl 
.uvsbtgbmvbgamrluagrlgmrf;--vbgouvab,gmugqkso gxkguesvogrlgkszgvppuibrkl
qrbmgzrimua,gwouvaszu,gxokzt,gvl gkszgpzrul ajgBmug.uabgkpgsagraglkbgak
fsimgvpzvr gbkgksbzvxugmrfgvagmugragvpzvr gbkgrlyszugmraglurxm.ksz,gmra
crlafvl,gkzgmragfvabuzjgRagbmuzugvltgsl uzabvl rlxgakgquvcgbmvb,gmvnrlx
klgklugar ugbmugk.yuibgkpgklugkpgkszgnrirksagwouvaszua,gvl gklgbmugkbmuz
(rlguesvogclkqou xugvl gwuzasvarkl)gbmugabvbugkpgvlgrffkzbvogxokzt,
qkso gimvlxugbmugprzabgpkzgbmugkbmuz?gvl gtubgqugkpbulgzulksliugbmragksb
kpgfuzugiklbufwb:gpkzgqmvbgosabgbufwbagsagbkg.ovawmufu,grpglkb,gwuzmvwa,
bmugnuztg uarzugbkgkppul jgBmugwmrokakwmuzgVlbrabmulua,gvagmugqvag.urlx
rlrbrvbu grlgbmugftabuzruagkpgKzwmusa,gbmugwzruabgbuoorlxgmrf,g“Bmvb
bmkaugqmkgwzkpuaau gbmufauonuagkpgbmvbgzuorxrklgquzugiuzbvrlgbkgzuiurnu
wuzpuibgvl gubuzlvogpuorirbtgvpbuzg uvbm,”--“Rpgbmksg.uorunuabgbmvb,”
gvlaquzu gmu,g“qmtg kabgbmksglkbg rugbmtauop?”g rkxulua,gfkzugzs uot,
viikz rlxgbkgmragfvlluz,gvl gfkzugzufkbugpzkfgkszgwszwkau,gbkgbmugwzruab
bmvbgrlgorcugfvlluzgwzuvimu gbkgmrf,g“Bkg.uikfugkpgmragzuorxrkl,gbmvbgmu
frxmbgk.bvrlgbmugmvwwrluaagkpgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ;--“Qmvb!”gavr gmu,g“bmks
qkso uabgmvnugfugbkg.uorunugbmvbgVxuarovsagvl gUwvfrlkl va,gqmkgquzugak
xzuvbgful,gamvoog.ugfrauzv.ou,gvl gbmvbgbmks,gqmkgvzbg.sbgvgivop,gvl 
ivlabg kglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkau,gamvobg.ugmvwwt,g.uivsaugbmksgvzbgvgwzruab?”
g r gqugzuiurnugbmuaugxzuvbgwzkfrauagkpgubuzlvog.uvbrbs ugqrbmgbmugavfu
zunuzuliugvl gzuawuibgbmvbgqug kgvgwmrokakwmrivog raikszau,gqugamkso 
lkbgmvnug uvbmgrlgakgxzuvbgmkzzkz:


gggLklgyvfgaugfkzrulag raakonrgikleszzuzubsz;
gggAu gfvxragrzugpkzva,gabufesugzuorlesuzugsbgvlxvra,
gggXvs uzub,gwzuvoklxvgauluhgvsbgikzlsvgiuznsaj

ggg“Qugamkso glkbgklgvg uvbmg.u gxzrunugbkg.u
ggg raakonu ,g.sbgzvbmuzgovslimgksbgimuuzpsoot
gggPzkfgkszgko gmsb,gvl gqrbmgbmugalvcu,g.ugxov 
gggBkgivabgkppgbmugikzzswbu gaoksxmgqugmv ;
gggKzgqrbmgbm’gko gabvxgzuykriugbkg.uglkqgiouvz
gggPzkfgbmugovzxugmkzla,gbkkgwkl uzksagxzkqlgbkg.uvzj”


“Rg uarzugbkg.ug raakonu ,”gqugamkso gavt,g“vl gbkg.ugqrbmgYuasagImzrab”
gBmugpkziugkpgWovbk’agvzxsfulbagikliuzlrlxgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgbmugakso
aubgakfugkpgmrag rairwouagbkgauucgvgwzufvbszugxzvnu,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgbmu
akkluzgulyktgbmugbmrlxagmugmv gfv ugbmufgmkwugpkzj

Voogbmragragvgfkabgunr ulbgarxlgbmvbgqugklotgzuiurnugkszgzuorxrkl
vpbuzgkszgkqlgpvamrkl,g.tgkszgkqlgmvl a,gvl glkgkbmuzqraugbmvlgvagkbmuz
zuorxrklagvzugzuiurnu jgUrbmuzgqugvzugmvwwulu grlgbmugikslbztgqmuzugrb
ragrlgwzvibriu,gkzgqugzunuzuliugbmugvlbresrbtgkpgrb,gkzgbmugvsbmkzrbt
kpgbmugfulgqmkgmvnugfvrlbvrlu grb,gkzgpuvzgbmugfulviuagrbgpsofrlvbua
vxvrlabgfra.uorunuza,gkzgvzugvooszu g.tgrbagwzkfrauajgBmuau
iklar uzvbrklagksxmb,g‘bragbzsu,gbkg.ugvwworu gbkgkszg.uorupg.sbgva
as.ar rvzruagklot,gpkzgbmutgvzugmsfvlgk.orxvbrklajgVlkbmuzgzuorxrkl,
kbmuzgqrbluaaua,gbmugorcugwzkfrauagvl gbmzuvba,gfrxmb,g.tgbmugavfugqvt,
rfwzrlbgvgesrbugiklbzvztg.uorupjgQugvzugImzrabrvlag.tgbmugavfugbrbou
bmvbgqugvzugWuzrxkz rvlagkzgXuzfvlajgVl gqmvbgWovbkgavta,g“Bmvbgbmuzu
vzugpuqgfulgakgk.abrlvbugrlgbmurzgvbmurafgqmkfgvgwzuaarlxg vlxuzgqroo
lkbgzu siugbkgvlgviclkqou xfulbgkpgbmug rnrlugwkquz,”g kuaglkbgikliuzl
vgbzsugImzrabrvl:g‘bragpkzgfkzbvogvl gmsfvlgzuorxrklagbkg.ugzuiurnu g.t
msfvlgzuikfful vbrkljgQmvbgcrl gkpgpvrbmgivlgbmvbg.ugbmvbgikqvz riugvl 
qvlbgkpgikszvxuguabv.oramgrlgsa?gVgwouvavlbgpvrbm,gbmvbg kuaglkbg.uorunu
qmvbgrbg.uorunuag.sbgpkzgqvlbgkpgikszvxugbkg ra.uorunugrb!gIvlgvgnrirksa
wvaarkl,gasimgvagrliklabvlitgvl gvabklramfulb,givsaugvltgzuxsovzgwzk sib
rlgkszgaksoa?g“Bmutgvzugiklpr ulbgrlgbmurzgys xfulb,”gavtagmu,g“bmvb
qmvbgragavr gkpgmuoogvl gpsbszugbkzfulbagragvoogpurxlu :g.sbgvlgkiivarkl
kpgfvcrlxgbmuguhwu rulbgwzuaulbrlxgrbauop,gqmulgko gvxugkzg rauvaua
.zrlxgbmufgbkgbmug.zrlcgkpgbmugxzvnu,gbmugbuzzkzgkpg uvbm,g.tgbmugmkzzkz
kpgbmvbgpsbszugikl rbrkl,grlawrzuagbmufgqrbmgvgluqg.uorup!”gVl g.t
zuvaklgbmvbgasimgrfwzuaarklagzul uzgbmufgbrfkzksa,gmugpkz.r agrlgmra
_Ovqa_gvoogasimgbmzuvbulrlxg kibzrlua,gvl gvoogwuzasvarklgbmvbgvltbmrlx
kpgroogivlg.upvoogvgfvlgpzkfgbmugxk a,guhiuwbrlxgpkzgmragxzuvbgxkk gqmul
bmutgmvwwulgbkgmrf,gvl gpkzgvgfu rirlvoguppuibjgBmutgavtgkpg.rklgbmvb,
rlpuibu gqrbmgbmugvbmurafgkpgBmuk kzva,gmugmv goklxgmv gzuorxrksagfulgrl
xzuvbgaikzlgvl giklbufwb,g.sbgbmvbg uvbmgaszwzrarlxgmrf,gmugxvnu
mrfauopgswgbkgbmugfkabguhbzufugaswuzabrbrkl;gvagrpgbmugxk agqrbm zuqgvl 
zubszlu gviikz rlxgbkgbmugluiuaarbruagkpg.rkljgWovbkgvl gbmuauguhvfwoua
qkso giklios ugbmvbgqugvzug.zksxmbgbkgvg.uorupgkpgXk gurbmuzg.tgzuvakl
kzg.tgpkziujgVbmurafg.urlxgvgwzkwkarbrklgvagsllvbszvogvagfklabzksa,
 rpprisobgvoakgvl gmvz gbkguabv.oramgrlgbmugmsfvlgsl uzabvl rlx,gmkq
vzzkxvlbgakunuz,gbmuzugvzugfulgulksxmgauul,gksbgkpgnvlrbtgvl gwzr u,gbk
.ugbmugvsbmkzagkpguhbzvkz rlvztgvl gzupkzfrlxgkwrlrkla,gvl gksbqvz ot
bkgvppuibgbmugwzkpuaarklgkpgbmuf;gqmk,grpgbmutgvzugasimgpkkoa,gmvnu,
lunuzbmuouaa,glkbgbmugwkquzgbkgwovlbgbmufgrlgbmurzgkqlgiklairuliujgTub
qroogbmutglkbgpvrogbkgorpbgswgbmurzgmvl agbkqvz agmuvnulgrpgtksgxrnu
bmufgvgxkk gbmzsabgqrbmgvgaqkz grlgbmug.zuvab,gvl gqmulgpuvzgkzgaricluaa
mvagv.vbu gvl g soou gbmugoriulbrksagpsztgkpgbmragxr  tgmsfkszgbmutgqroo
uvarotgzu-slrbu,gvl gnuztg raizuubotgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugzuiklirou 
bkgbmugws.origpvrbmgvl guhvfwouajgVg kibzrlugauzrksaotg rxuabu gragklu
bmrlx,gvl gbmkaugaswuzprirvogrfwzuaarklagvlkbmuz;gqmrimgawzrlxrlxgpzkf
bmug rakz uzgkpgvlgslmrlxu gsl uzabvl rlx,gpokvbgvbgzvl kfgvl gxzuvb
sliuzbvrlbtgrlgbmugpvlitjgFrauzv.ougvl gaulauouaagful,gqmkgabzrnugbkg.u
qkzaugbmvlgbmutgivl!

Bmuguzzkzgkpgwvxvlrafgvl gbmugrxlkzvliugkpgkszgavizu gbzsbm,goubgbmra
xzuvbgaksogkpgWovbk,g.sbgxzuvbgklotgrlgmsfvlgxzuvbluaa,gpvoogvoakgrlbk
bmragkbmuzgfrabvcu,g“Bmvbgimro zulgvl gko gfulgquzugfkabgasaiuwbr.ougkp
zuorxrkl,”gvagrpgrbgawzslxgvl g uzrnu grbagizu rbgpzkfgkszgquvcluaaj
Bmugclkbgbmvbgksxmbgbkg.rl gbmugys xfulbgvl gbmugqroo,gbmvbgksxmbgbk
zuabzvrlgbmugaksogvl gykrlgrbgbkgkszgizuvbkz,gamkso g.ugvgclkbgbmvb
 uzrnuagrbagpko rlxagvl gabzulxbmglkbgpzkfgkszgiklar uzvbrkla,gpzkfgksz
zuvaklagvl gwvaarkla,g.sbgpzkfgvg rnrlugvl gaswuzlvbszvogiklabzvrlb,
mvnrlxg.sbgklugpkzf,gklugpviu,gvl gklugosabzu,gqmrimgragbmugvsbmkzrbt
kpgXk gvl gmrag rnrlugxzviujgLkqgbmugmuvzbgvl gaksog.urlxgxknuzlu gvl 
ikffvl u g.tgpvrbm,g‘brag.sbgzuvaklgbmvbgbmutgamkso gfsabuzgvoogksz
kbmuzgpvisobrua,gviikz rlxgvagbmutgvzugv.ougbkgwuzpkzfgbkgbmugauznriu
vl gvaarabvliugkpgbmurzg uarxljgLurbmuzgragrbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gbmvbgvoo
bmragfvimrlugmvaglkbgakfugfvzcagrfwzrlbu gswklgrbg.tgbmugmvl gkpgbmu
frxmbtgvzimrbuib,gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbgrlgbmugbmrlxagkpgbmragqkzo 
akfugrfvxugbmvbgrlgakfugfuvaszugzuauf.ouagbmugqkzcfvlgqmkgmvag.srobgvl 
pkzfu gbmufjgMugmva,grlgmragabswul ksagqkzca,goupbgbmugimvzvibuzgkpgmra
 rnrlrbt,gvl g‘bragkszgkqlgquvcluaagklotgbmvbgmrl uzagsagpzkfg raiuzlrlx
rbjg‘Bragqmvbgmugmrfauopgragwouvau gbkgbuoogsa,g“Bmvbgmugfvlrpuabagmra
rlnrar.ougkwuzvbrklagbkgsag.tgbmkaugbmvbgvzugnrar.ouj”gAu.kl gvwworu 
mrfauopgbkgbmragovs v.ougvl glk.ougabs t,gvl g ufklabzvbuagbkgsagbmvb
bmuzugraglkbgvltgwvzbgkzgfuf.uzgkpgbmugqkzo gbmvbg raiovrfagkzg uzkxvbua
pzkfgrbagfvcuzjgRbgquzugbkg kgqzklxgbkgbmug rnrlugxkk luaa,g r glkbgbmu
slrnuzaugiklaulbgbkgkszg.uorupjgBmugmuvnula,gbmuguvzbm,gbmuguoufulba,
kszg.k ruagvl gkszgaksoa,--voogbmrlxagikliszgbkgbmra;gqugmvnug.sbgbk
prl gksbgbmugqvtgbkgsaugbmuf;gbmutgrlabzsibgsa,grpgqugvzugivwv.ou
kpgrlabzsibrkljgPkzgbmragqkzo gragvgavizu gbufwou,grlbkgqmrimgfvlgra
rlbzk siu ,gbmuzugbkgiklbufwovbugabvbsua,glkbgbmugqkzcagkpgvgfkzbvo
mvl ,g.sbgasimgvagbmug rnrlugwszwkaugmvagfv ugbmugk.yuibagkpgaulau;gbmu
asl,gbmugabvza,gbmugqvbuz,gvl gbmuguvzbm,gbkgzuwzuaulbgbmkaugbmvbgvzu
rlbuoorxr.ougbkgsajg“Bmugrlnrar.ougbrorlxagkpgXk ,”gavtagAbjgWvso,
“vwwuvzg.tgbmugizuvbrklgkpgbmugqkzo ,gmragubuzlvogqra kfgvl g rnrlrbt
.urlxgiklar uzu g.tgmragqkzcaj”


gggVl gXk gmrfauopgulnruaglkbgfulgbmugxzviu
gggKpgauurlxgvl gv frzrlxgmuvnul’agpviu;
ggg.sb,gzkoorlxgrbgv.ksb,gmugabroogvluq
gggWzuaulbagrbagnvzru gawoul kszgbkgkszgnruq,
gggVl gklgkvzgfrl agmrfauopgrlisoivbua,gak
gggBmvbgqugbm’gVofrxmbtgfknuzgquoogfvtgclkq:
gggRlabzsibrlxgsag.tgauurlxgmrfgbmugivsau
gggKpgroo,gbkgzunizukiugvl gk.utgmragovqaj”


Lkqgkszgwzvtuzagvl gmsfvlg raikszauagvzug.sbgvagabuzrougvl gsl rxuabu 
fvbbuzjgBmugxzviugkpgXk gragbmugpkzf;g‘bragbmvbgqmrimgxrnuagpvamrklgvl 
nvosugbkgrbjgVagbmugnrzbsksagvibrklagkpgAkizvbuagvl gIvbkgzufvrlgnvrl
vl gpzsrbouaa,gpkzglkbgmvnrlxgmv gbmugoknugvl gk.u ruliugbkgbmugbzsu
izuvbkzgkpgvoogbmrlxa,gakgragrbgqrbmgkszgrfvxrlvbrklagvl g raikszaua;
bmutgmvnugvgcrl gkpg.k t,g.sbgrbgragvlgrlpkzfgfvaa,gqrbmksbgpvamrklgvl 
qrbmksbgorxmb,grpgpvrbmgvl gxzviug.uglkbgv  u gbmuzubkjgPvrbmgikfrlxgbk
brlibgvl groosabzvbugAumkl ’agvzxsfulbagzul uzagbmufgprzfgvl gabkor ;
vl gbkgbmvbg uxzuugbmvbgbmutgvzugivwv.ougkpgauznrlxgpkzg rzuibrkla,gvl 
kpg.urlxgbmugprzabgxsr uagbkgvlguoufulbvztgImzrabrvlgbkgwsbgmrfgrlbkgbmu
qvtgkpgbmragclkqou xujgBmutgrlgakfugfuvaszugpkzfgmrfgbk,gvl gzul uzgmrf
ivwv.ougkp,gbmugxzviugkpgXk ,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagmugvpbuzqvz agikfwoubuagvl 
wuzpuibagmrfauopgrlgbmugbzsug.uorupjgRgclkqgvgfvlgkpgvsbmkzrbt,g.zu gsw
bkgoubbuza,gqmkgmvagiklpuaau gbkgfugbkgmvnug.uulg.zksxmbg.vicgpzkfgbmu
uzzkzagkpgsl.uorupg.tgAu.kl ’agvzxsfulbajgVl gamkso gbmutg.ugabzrwwu gkp
bmragkzlvfulb,gvl gkpgbmugvaarabvliugvl gvwwzk.vbrklgkpgbmugpvrbm,
vl g.ugokkcu gswklgvagfuzugpvliruagklot,gbkgiklbul gqrbmgbmkaugqmkgvzu
wzuirwrbvbu grlbkgbmug zuv psogvl gmkzzr.oug vzcluaagkpgrzzéorxrkl,gbmut
qroogunulgbmuzugprl gbmufgvagakor gvl gprzfgvagvltgkbmuzagkpgbmugavfu
esvorbtgbmvbgivlg.ugkwwkau gvxvrlabgbmuf;gakgbmvbgqugamvoog.ugzuv tgbk
avtgbkgkszgkwwklulba:


gggArgfuorsagesr gmv.ua,gvziuaau;gnuogrfwuzrsfgpuz:

gggggg“Rpgtksgmvnugvzxsfulbagfkzugprbj
gggWzk siugbmuf,gkzgbkgbmuaugas.frbj”


oubgbmufgv frbgbmugpkziugkpgkszgzuvakla,gkzgoubgbmufgamkqgsagkbmuza,
vl gswklgakfugkbmuzgas.yuib,g.ubbuzgqknulgvl gkpgprluzgbmzuv jgRgvf,
slvqvzua,gmvopgulxvxu grlgbmugauikl gk.yuibrkl,gbkgqmrimgRgwzkwkau gbk
fvcugvlaquzgrlgbmug.umvopgkpgAu.kl jgAkfugavtgbmvbgmragvzxsfulbagvzu
quvc,gvl gslv.ougbkgfvcugxkk gqmvbgmugrlbul a,gvl gsl uzbvcugqrbmgxzuvb
uvaugbkgiklpsbugbmufjgBmuaugvzugbkg.ugvgorbbougfkzugzksxmotgmvl ou ,gpkz
bmutgvzugfkzug vlxuzksagvl gfvorirksagbmvlgbmugprzabgFulgqroorlxotgqzuab
bmugavtrlxagkpgkbmuzagbkgpvnkszgbmurzgkqlgwzuys rivbugkwrlrklajgBkgvl
vbmurabgvoogqzrbrlxagbul gbkgvbmuraïf:gmugikzzswbagbmugfkabgrllkiulb
fvbbuzgqrbmgmragkqlgnulkfjgBmuaugmvnugbmurzgys xfulbagakgwzuwkaauaau 
bmvbgbmutgivllkbgzuoramgAu.kl ’agzuvaklajgVagbkgbmugzuab,gbmutgbmrlcgqu
xrnugbmufgnuztgpvrzgwovtgrlgwsbbrlxgbmufgrlbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgikf.vbbrlx
kszgzuorxrklgqrbmgquvwklagfuzuotgmsfvl,gqmkf,grlgmuzgfvyuabt,gpsoogkp
vsbmkzrbtgvl gikffvl ,gbmutg szabglkbgvbbvicjgBmugfuvlagbmvbgRgamvoo
sau,gvl gbmvbgRgbmrlcgfkabgwzkwuzgbkgas. sugbmragpzuldt,gragbkgizsamgvl 
awszlgsl uzgpkkbgwzr ugvl gmsfvlgvzzkxvliu;gbkgfvcugbmufgaular.ougkp
bmugrlvlrbt,gnvlrbt,gvl gnrouluaagkpgfvl;gbkgqzuabgbmugqzubimu gvzfa
kpgbmurzgzuvaklgksbgkpgbmurzgmvl a;gbkgfvcugbmufg.kqg kqlgvl g.rbugbmu
xzksl gsl uzgbmugvsbmkzrbtgvl gzunuzuliugkpgbmug rnrlugFvyuabtjg‘Bragbk
bmvbgvoklugbmvbgclkqou xugvl gqra kfgvwwuzbvrl;gbmvbgvoklugbmvbgivlgfvcu
vgbzsuguabrfvbugkpgrbauop,gvl gpzkfgqmrimgqugwszokrlgqmvbunuzgqugnvosu
kszauonuagswkl:g[--Xzuuc--]g“Xk gwuzfrbaglkbgvltg.urlxg.sbgmrfauopgbkg.u
bzsotgqrauj”gOubgsagas. sugbmragwzuasfwbrkl,gbmugprzabgpksl vbrklgkpgbmu
btzvlltgkpgbmugunrogawrzrbg_ usagaswuz.ragzu-arabrb,gmsfror.sagvsbuf
 vogxzvbrvfj_g“Xk gzuarabagbmugwzks ,g.sbgxrnuagxzviugbkgbmugmsf.ouj”
g“Sl uzabvl rlxgragrlgbmugxk a,”gavtagWovbk,g“vl glkbgvbgvoo,gkzgnuzt
orbbou,grlgfulj”gLkqgrbgragrlgbmugfuvlgbrfugvgxzuvbgiklakovbrklgbkgv
Imzrabrvlgfvlgbkgauugkszgpzvrogvl gfkzbvogwvzbagakgprbotgasrbu gbkgksz
mkotgvl g rnrlugpvrbmgbmvb,gqmulgqugufwoktgbmufgbkgbmugas.yuibagkpgbmurz
kqlgfkzbvogvl gpzvroglvbszugbmutgvzuglkbgunulgbmuzugfkzugslrbu otgkz
fkzugprzfotgv ysabu jgOubgsagauu,gbmul,grpgfvlgmvagrlgmragwkquzgkbmuz
fkzugpkzir.ougvl giklnrlirlxgzuvaklagbmvlgbmkaugkpgAu.kl ;gbmvbgragbk
avt,grpgrbg.ugrlgmrfgbkgvzzrnugvbgvltgiuzbvrlbtg.tgvzxsfulbgvl gzuvaklj
PkzgAbjgVsxsabrl,g rawsbrlxgvxvrlabgbmuaugwukwou,gmvagxkk givsaugbk
zuwzkvimgbmufgqrbmgrlysabriu,g“Rlgbmvbgbmutgfvrlbvrlgbmugwvzbgkpgksz
.uorupgbkg.ugpvoaugbmvbgkszgzuvaklgivllkbguabv.oramj”gVl gbkgamkqgbmvb
vgxzuvbgfvltgbmrlxagfvtg.u,gvl gmvnug.uul,gkpgqmrimgkszglvbszugikso 
lkbgaksl gbmugzuvaklgvl givsaua,gmugwzkwkauagbkgbmufgiuzbvrlgclkqlgvl 
sl ks.bu guhwuzrfulba,gqmuzurlgfulgiklpuaagbmutgauuglkbmrlx;gvl gbmragmu
 kua,gvagvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa,gqrbmgvgiszrksagvl grlxulrksagrlesrarbrklj
Qugfsabg kgfkzugbmvlgbmra,gvl gfvcugbmufgclkqgbmvb,gbkgiklnrliugbmu
quvcluaagkpgbmurzgzuvakl,gbmuzugraglkgluiuaarbtgkpgisoorlxgksbgslikffkl
uhvfwoua:gvl gbmvbgrbgragakg upuibrnugvl gakg.orl gbmvbgbmuzugraglk
pvisobtgiouvzgulksxmgpkzgrb;gbmvbgbkgrbgbmuguvatgvl gbmugmvz gvzugvoo
klu;gbmvbgvoogas.yuibaguesvoot,gvl glvbszugrlgxuluzvo,g raiovrfgrba
vsbmkzrbtgvl gzuyuibgrbagfu rvbrklj

Qmvbg kuagbzsbmgfuvlgqmulgamugwzuvimuagbkgsagbkgpotgqkzo otgwmrokakwmt,
qmulgamugakgkpbulgrlisoivbuagbkgsa,g“Bmvbgkszgqra kfgrag.sbgpkootgrlgbmu
arxmbgkpgXk :gbmvbgbmugnvrluabgkpgvoognvlrbruagragfvl:gbmvbgbmugfvlgqmk
wzuasfuagswklgmragqra kfg kuaglkbgtubgclkqgqmvbgqra kfgra;gvl gbmvbgfvl,
qmkgraglkbmrlx,grpgmugbmrlcagmrfauopgbkg.ugvltbmrlx,g kuagau siugvl 
 uiurnugmrfauopj”gBmuaugaulbuliuagkpgbmugMkotgAwrzrbg kgakgiouvzotgvl 
nrnr otguhwzuaagbmvbgqmrimgRgqkso gfvrlbvrlgbmvbgRgamkso gluu glkgkbmuz
wzkkpgvxvrlabgfulgqmkgqkso gqrbmgvoogmsfrorbtgvl gk.u ruliugas.frbgbk
mragvsbmkzrbt:g.sbgbmuaugqroog.ugqmrwwu gvbgbmurzgkqlguhwulau,gvl gqroo
lkbgasppuzgvgfvlgbkgkwwkaugbmurzgzuvaklg.sbg.tgrbauopj

Oubgsagbmul,gpkzgkliu,giklar uzgvgfvlgvoklu,gqrbmksbgpkzurxlgvaarabvliu,
vzfu gklotgqrbmgmragkqlgwzkwuzgvzfa,gvl gslpszlramu gkpgbmug rnrlugxzviu
vl gqra kf,gqmrimgragvoogmragmklksz,gabzulxbm,gvl gbmugpksl vbrklgkpgmra
.urlxjgOubgsagauugmkqgmugabvl agrlgbmragprluguesrwvxujgOubgmrfgfvcugfu
sl uzabvl ,g.tgbmugpkziugkpgmragzuvakl,gswklgqmvbgpksl vbrklagmugmva
.srobgbmkaugxzuvbgv nvlbvxuagmugbmrlcagmugmvagknuzgkbmuzgizuvbszuajgQmk
mvagfv ugmrfg.uorunugbmvbgbmragv frzv.ougfkbrklgkpgbmugiuouabrvogvzim,
bmugubuzlvogorxmbgkpgbmkaugosfrlvzruagbmvbgzkoogakgmrxmgknuzgmragmuv ,
bmugqkl zksagvl gpuvzpsogfkbrklagkpgbmvbgrlprlrbugkiuvl,gamkso g.u
uabv.oramu gvl giklbrlsugakgfvltgvxuagpkzgmragauznriugvl giklnulruliu?
Ivlgvltgbmrlxg.ugrfvxrlu gakgzr risoksa,gbmvbgbmragfrauzv.ougvl 
qzubimu gizuvbszu,gqmkgraglkbgakgfsimgvagfvabuzgkpgmrfauop,g.sbgas.yuib
bkgbmugrlyszruagkpgvoogbmrlxa,gamkso givoogmrfauopgfvabuzgvl gufwuzkzgkp
bmugqkzo ,gkpgqmrimgmugmvaglkbgwkquzgbkgclkqgbmugouvabgwvzb,gfsimgouaa
bkgikffvl gbmugqmkou?gVl gbmugwzrnrouxugqmrimgmugvbbzr.sbuagbkgmrfauop
kpg.urlxgbmugklotgizuvbszugrlgbmragnvabgpv.zrigqmkgmvagbmugsl uzabvl rlx
bkg raiknuzgbmug.uvsbtgvl gbmugwvzragkpgrb;gbmugklotgklugqmkgivl
zubszlgbmvlcagbkgbmugvzimrbuib,gvl gcuuwgviikslbgkpgbmugzunulsuagvl 
 ra.szaufulbagkpgbmugqkzo ;gqmk,gRgqkl uz,gauvou gmrfgbmragwvbulb?gOub
sagauugmragikffraarklgpkzgbmragxzuvbgufwoktfulbgQvagrbgxzvlbu grlgpvnksz
kpgbmugqraugklot?gPuqgwukwougqroog.ugikliuzlu grlgrbjgVzugpkkoagvl 
qricu gwuzaklagqkzbmtgakguhbzvkz rlvztgvgpvnksz,gvl ,g.urlxgbmugqkzab
wvzbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gbkg.ugwzupuzzu g.upkzugbmugzuab?gAmvoogqug.uorunu
bmragfvl?--“Pkzgqmkaugavcugamvoogqu,gbmuzupkzu,giklios ugbmvbgbmugqkzo 
qvagfv u?gPkzgbmurzagqmkgmvnugbmugsaugkpgzuvakl:gbmuaugvzugxk agvl gful,
bmvlgqmkfgiuzbvrlotglkbmrlxgivlg.ug.ubbuz:”gqugivlglunuzgaspprirulbot
 uiztgbmugrfws uliugkpgbmragiklyslibrkljg.sb,gqzubimu gizuvbszu,
qmvbgmvagmugrlgmrfauopgqkzbmtgkpgasimgvlgv nvlbvxu?gIklar uzrlxgbmu
rlikzzswbr.ouguhrabuliugkpgbmugiuouabrvog.k rua;g.uvsbt;gfvxlrbs u,gvl 
iklbrlsvogzunkosbrklg.tgakguhvibgvgzsou;


ggggggIsfgasawrirfsagfælrgiæouabrvgfsl r
gggBufwovgaswuz,gabuooraesugfrivlbr.sagvzbmuzvgprrsf,
gggUognulrbgrlgfilbufgoslægakoraesugnrvzszlj

gggggg“Qmulgqugbmugmuvnulotgvzimgv.knug.umko j
gggVl gbmugnvabgactgv kzlu gqrbmgabvzagkpgxko j
gggVl gfvzcgbmugz’uxovzgikszau?gbmvbgbmugasl
gggVl gfkklgrlgbmurzgvobuzlvbugwzkxzuaagzslj”


iklar uzrlxgbmug kfrlrklgvl grlposuliugbmkaug.k ruagmvnu,glkbgklotgknuz
kszgornuagvl gpkzbslua;


gggPvibvgubulrfgubgnrbvagmkfrlsfgasawul rbgv.gvvbzra;

ggg“Ful’agornuagvl gvibrklagklgbmugabvzag uwul j”


.sbgunulgknuzgkszgrliorlvbrkla,gkszgbmksxmbagvl gqrooa,gqmrimgbmut
xknuzl,grlirbugvl gvxrbvbugvbgbmugfuzitgkpgbmurzgrlposuliua,gvagksz
zuvaklgbuvimuagsa;


gggggg“Iklbufwovbrlxgbmugabvzagmugprl agbmvbgbmut
gggZsoug.tgvgauizubgvl gvgaroulbgaqvt;
gggVl gbmvbgbmugulvfuoo’ gawmuzuagqmrimgzkoogv.knu
ggg kgunuzg.tgvobuzlvbugivsauagfknuj
gggVl ,gabs trlxgbmuau,gmugivlgvoakgpkzuauu,
ggg.tgiuzbvrlgarxla,gbmugbszlagkpg uabrlt;”


auurlxgbmvbglkbgklotgvgfvl,glkbgklotgcrlxa,g.sbgbmvbgfklvzimrua,
ufwrzua,gvl gvoogbmragokquzgqkzo gpkookqgbmugrlposuliugkpgbmugiuouabrvo
fkbrkla,


gggggg“Mkqgxzuvbgvgimvlxugvgorbbougfkbrklg.zrlxa!
gggAkgxzuvbgbmragcrlx kfgragbmvbgxknuzlagcrlxa:”


rpgkszgnrzbsu,gkszgnriua,gkszgclkqou xu,gvl gbmragnuztg raikszaugqugvzu
swklgkpgbmugwkquzgkpgbmugabvza,gvl gbmugikfwvzraklgqugvzugfvcrlxg.ubqrhb
bmufgvl gsa,gwzkiuu ,gvagkszgzuvaklgaswwkaua,gpzkfgbmurzgpvnksz;


gggggg“Klugfv grlgoknugfvtgizkaagbmugzvxrlxgfvrl,
gggBkgounuogokpbtgRorsfgqrbmgbmugwovrl;
gggVlkbmuz’agpvbugrliorluagmrfgfkzug.tgpvz
gggBkgabs tgovqagvl gabvbsbuagpkzgbmug.vzj
gggAklagcroogbmurzgpvbmuz,gpvbmuzagcroogbmurzgakla,
gggVl gklugvzf’ g.zkbmuzg‘xvrlabgvlkbmuzgzslajj
gggBmragqvz’aglkbgbmurz’a,g.sbgpvbu’a,gbmvbgawszagbmufgkl
gggBkgamu gbmug.okk gqmrim,gamu ,gbmutgfsabg.ufkvl;
gggVl gRgvaizr.ugrbgbkgbmugqroogkpgpvbu
gggBmvbgklgbmragbmufugRglkqguhwvbrvbu:”


rpgqug uzrnugbmragorbbougwkzbrklgkpgzuvaklgqugmvnugpzkfgbmug.kslbtgkp
muvnul,gmkqgragrbgwkaar.ougbmvbgzuvaklgamkso gunuzgfvcugsaguesvogbkgrb?
Mkqgas.yuibgrbaguaauliugvl gikl rbrklgbkgkszgclkqou xu?gQmvbunuzgqugauu
rlgbmkaug.k ruagvabklramuagsa:g_Esægfkorbrk,gesvgpuzzvfulbv,gesrgnuibua,
esægfvimrlv,gesrgfrlrabzrgbvlbrgkwuzragpsuzslb?_g“Qmvbgiklbzrnvliu,gqmvb
bkkoa,gqmvbgfvbuzrvoa,gqmvbgulxrlua,gquzugufwoktu gv.ksbgakgabswul ksa
vgqkzc?”gQmtg kgqug uwzrnugbmufgkpgakso,gkpgorpu,gvl g raikszau?gMvnugqu
 raiknuzu grlgbmufgvltgrffknuv.ougkzgrlaular.ougabswr rbt,gqugqmk
mvnuglkgikffuziugqrbmgbmufg.sbg.tgk.u ruliu?gAmvoogqugavtgbmvbgqugmvnu
 raiknuzu grlglkgkbmuzgizuvbszug.sbgfvlgbmugsaugkpgvgzuvaklv.ougakso?
Qmvb!gmvnugqugauulgvltgbmrlxgorcugbmugasl?g kuagmugiuvaugbkg.u,g.uivsau
qugmvnugauulglkbmrlxgorcugmrf?gVl g kgmragfkbrklagiuvau,g.uivsaugbmuzu
vzuglkgkbmuzgorcugbmuf?gRpgqmvbgqugmvnuglkbgauulgraglkb,gkszgclkqou xu
ragfvznuooksaotgiklbzvibu :g_Esægaslbgbvlbægvlrfrgvlxsabræ!_g“Mkqglvzzkq
vzugkszgsl uzabvl rlxa!”gVzugbmutglkbg zuvfagkpgmsfvlgnvlrbt,gbkgfvcu
bmugfkklgvgiuouabrvoguvzbm?gbmuzugbkgpvlitgfkslbvrlagvl gnvoua,gva
Vlvhvxkzvag r ?gbmuzugbkgprhgmv.rbvbrklagvl gmsfvlgv.k ua,gvl gwovlb
ikoklruagpkzgkszgiklnulruliu,gvagWovbkgvl gWosbvzimgmvnug klu?gVl gkp
kszguvzbmgbkgfvcugvgosfrlksagvl gzuawoul ulbgabvz?g“Vfklxabgbmu
kbmuzgrliklnulruliuagkpgfkzbvorbtgbmragragklu,gbmvbg vzcluaagkpgbmu
sl uzabvl rlxgqmrimgouv agfulgvabzvt,glkbgakgfsimgpzkfgvgluiuaarbtgkp
uzzrlx,g.sbgpzkfgvgoknugkpguzzkzjgBmugikzzswbr.oug.k tgabswrprua
bmugakso,gvl gbmuguvzbmotgmv.rbvbrklg sooagbmugpvisobruagkpgbmu
rfvxrlvbrklj”

Wzuasfwbrklgragkszglvbszvogvl gkzrxrlvog rauvaujgBmugfkabgqzubimu gvl 
pzvrogkpgvoogizuvbszuagragfvl,gvl gqrbmvogbmugwzks uabjgMugpuuoagvl 
auuagmrfauopgok xu gmuzugrlgbmug rzbgvl gprobmgkpgbmugqkzo ,glvrou gvl 
zrnubbu gbkgbmugqkzabgvl g uv uabgwvzbgkpgbmugslrnuzau,grlgbmugokquab
abkztgkpgbmugmksau,gbmugfkabgzufkbugpzkfgbmugmuvnulotgvzim,gqrbmgvlrfvoa
kpgbmugqkzabgikl rbrklgkpgbmugbmzuu;gvl gtubgrlgmragrfvxrlvbrklgqroog.u
wovirlxgmrfauopgv.knugbmugirziougkpgbmugfkkl,gvl g.zrlxrlxgbmugmuvnula
sl uzgmragpuubjg‘Brag.tgbmugavfugnvlrbtgkpgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvbgmuguesvoa
mrfauopgbkgXk ,gvbbzr.sbuagbkgmrfauopg rnrlugesvorbrua,gqrbm zvqagvl 
auwvzvbuagmrfauopgpzkfgbmugbmugizkq gkpgkbmuzgizuvbszua,gisbagksbgbmu
amvzuagkpgbmugvlrfvoa,gmragpuookqagvl gikfwvlrkla,gvl g rabzr.sbuagbk
bmufgwkzbrklagkpgpvisobruagvl gpkziu,gvagmrfauopgbmrlcagprbgMkqg kua
mugclkq,g.tgbmugabzulxbmgkpgmragsl uzabvl rlx,gbmugauizubgvl grlbuzlvo
fkbrklagkpgvlrfvoa?--pzkfgqmvbgikfwvzraklg.ubqrhbgbmufgvl gsag kuagmu
iklios ugbmugabswr rbtgmugvbbzr.sbuagbkgbmuf?gQmulgRgwovtgqrbmgftgivb
qmkgclkqagqmubmuzgRg kglkbgfvcugmuzgfkzugawkzbgbmvlgamugfvcuagfu?gQu
fsbsvootg rnuzbgklugvlkbmuzgqrbmgkszgwovtjgRpgRgmvnugftgmkszgbkg.uxrl
kzgbkgzupsaç,gamugvoakgmvagmuzajgWovbk,grlgmragwribszugkpgbmugxko ulgvxu
sl uzgAvbszl,gzuickla,gvfklxgbmugimrupgv nvlbvxuagbmvbgvgfvlgbmulgmv ,
mragikffslrivbrklgqrbmg.uvaba,gkpgqmkf,grlesrzrlxgvl grlpkzfrlxgmrfauop,
mugcluqgbmugbzsugesvorbruagvl g rppuzuliuagkpgbmufgvoo,g.tgqmrimgmu
viesrzu gvgnuztgwuzpuibgrlbuoorxuliugvl gwzs uliu,gvl gou gmragorpu
fkzugmvwwrotgbmvlgqugikso g kjgLuu gqugvg.ubbuzgwzkkpgbkgikl uflgmsfvl
rfws uliugrlgbmugikliuzlgkpg.uvaba?gBmragxzuvbgvsbmkzgqvagkpgkwrlrkl
bmvbglvbszu,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgrlgbmugikzwkzvogpkzfgamugxvnugbmuf,gmv 
klotgzuxvz gbkgbmugsaugkpgwzkxlkabriagbmvbgquzug uzrnu gbmuliugrlgmra
brfujgBmug upuibgbmvbgmrl uzagikffslrivbrklg.ubqrhbgbmufgvl gsa,gqmtgfvt
rbglkbg.ugrlgkszgwvzbgvagquoogvagbmurza?g‘Bragtubgbkg ubuzfrlugqmuzugbmu
pvsobgoruagbmvbgqugsl uzabvl glkbgklugvlkbmuz,--pkzgqugsl uzabvl gbmuf
lkgfkzugbmvlgbmutg kgsa;gvl g.tgbmugavfugzuvaklgbmutgfvtgbmrlcgsagbkg.u
.uvabagvagqugbmrlcgbmufjg‘Braglkgxzuvbgqkl uzgrpgqugsl uzabvl glkbgbmuf,
qmulgqug kglkbgsl uzabvl gvg.vaesugkzgvgBzkxok tbujgVl gtubgakfugmvnu
.kvabu gbmvbgbmutgsl uzabkk gbmuf,gvagVwkooklrsagBtvlvsa,gFuovfwsa,
Brzuarva,gBmvoua,gvl gkbmuzajgVl gauurlx,gvagisafkxzvwmuzagzuwkzb,gbmvb
bmuzugvzuglvbrklagbmvbgmvnugvg kxgpkzgbmurzgcrlx,gbmutgfsabgkpgluiuaarbt
.ugv.ougbkgrlbuzwzubgmragnkriugvl gfkbrklajgQugfsabgk.auznugbmugwvzrbt
.ubqrhbgsa,gmvnugakfugbkouzv.ougvwwzumularklgkpgbmurzgfuvlrlx,gvl gak
mvnug.uvabagkpgksza,--fsimgv.ksbgbmugavfujgBmutgivzuaagsa,gbmzuvbulgsa,
vl g.uxgkpgsa,gvl gqug kgbmugavfugbkgbmufj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gqugfvlrpuabotg raiknuzgbmvbgbmutgmvnugvgpsoogvl 
v.akosbugikffslrivbrklgvfklxabgbmufauonua,gvl gbmvbgbmutgwuzpuibot
sl uzabvl gklugvlkbmuz,glkbgklotgbmkaugkpgbmugavfu,g.sbgkpg rnuzagcrl a:


gggggg“Bmugbvfuzgmuz a,gvl gqro uzgakzbgkpg.zsbuaj
gggBmksxmgqugkpgmrxmuzgzviugiklios ugbmufgfsbuaj
gggTubgsbbuzg raaklvlbgvl gnvzrksaglkbua,
gggPzkfgxulbouzgoslxagkzgfkzug rabul u gbmzkvba,
gggVagpuvz,gkzgxzrup,gkzgvlxuz,g kgbmufgfknu,
gggKzgvagbmutg kgvwwzkvimgbmugyktagkpgoknuj”


Rlgklugcrl gkpg.vzcrlxgkpgvg kxgbmugmkzaugclkqagbmuzugragvlxuz,gkp
vlkbmuzgakzbgkpg.vzcgmugraglkbgvpzvr jgUnulgrlgbmugnuztg.uvabagbmvb
mvnuglkgnkriugvbgvoo,gquguvarotgiklios u,gpzkfgbmugakirubtgkpgkppriua
qugk.auznugvfklxabgbmuf,gakfugkbmuzgakzbgkpgikffslrivbrkl:gbmurzgnuzt
fkbrklag raiknuzgrb:


gggggg“Vagrlpvlbagqmk,gpkzgqvlbgkpgqkz a,g unrau
gggUhwzuaarnugfkbrklagqrbmgbmurzgmvl agvl gutuaj”


Vl gqmtglkb,gvagquoogvagkszg sf.gwukwou,g rawsbu,gvzxsu,gvl gbuoo
abkzruag.tgarxla?gKpgqmkfgRgmvnugauulgakfu,g.tgwzvibriu,gakgiounuzgvl 
vibrnugbmvbgqvtgbmvb,grlgpvib,gbmutgqvlbu glkbmrlxgkpgbmugwuzpuibrkl
kpgfvcrlxgbmufauonuagsl uzabkk jgOknuzagvzugvlxzt,gzuiklirou ,grlbzuvb,
bmvlc,gvwwkrlb,gvl ,grlgamkzb,gawuvcgvoogbmrlxag.tgbmurzgutua:


gggggg“Unulgarouliugrlgvgoknuz
gggOknugvl gwvaarklgivlg raiknuzj”


Qmvbgqrbmgbmugmvl a?gQugzuesrzu,gwzkfrau,givoo,g rafraa,gbmzuvbul,gwzvt,
aswworivbu,g ult,gzupsau,grlbuzzkxvbu,gv frzu,glsf.uz,giklpuaa,gzuwulb,
puvz,guhwzuaagiklpsarkl,g ks.b,grlabzsib,gikffvl ,grlirbu,gulikszvxu,
aquvz,gbuabrpt,gviisau,gikl ufl,gv.akonu,gv.sau,g uawrau,g upt,gwzknkcu,
povbbuz,gvwwovs ,g.ouaa,gas.frb,gfkic,gzuiklirou,gzuikfful ,guhvob,
ulbuzbvrl,giklxzvbsovbu,gikfwovrl,gxzrunu,g uawvrz,gqkl uz,guhiovrf,gvl 
qmvbglkb!gVl gvoogbmragqrbmgvgnvzrubtgvl gfsobrworivbrkl,gunulgufsovbrlx
awuuimjgQrbmgbmugmuv gqugrlnrbu,gzufvl ,giklpuaa,g ult,gxrnugbmugoru,
quoikfu,gmklksz,gzunuzuliu,g ra vrl,g ufvl ,gzuykriu,govfulb,gzuyuib,
ivzuaa,gzu.scu,gas.frb,gmspp,gulikszvxu,gbmzuvbul,gvaaszu,gvl grlesrzuj
Qmvbgqrbmgbmugutu.zkqa?--qmvbgqrbmgbmugamkso uza!gBmuzugraglkbgvgfkbrkl
bmvbg kuaglkbgawuvc,gvl grlgvlgrlbuoorxr.ougovlxsvxugqrbmksbg rairworlu,
vl gvgws.origovlxsvxugbmvbgunuztgklugsl uzabvl a:gqmuliugrbgamkso 
pkookq,gbmugnvzrubtgvl gsaug rabrlxsramu gpzkfgkbmuzagiklar uzu ,gbmvb
bmuaugamkso gzvbmuzg.ugys xu gbmugwzkwuzbtgkpgmsfvlglvbszujgRgkfrb
qmvbgluiuaarbtgwvzbrisovzotg kuagas  ulotgasxxuabgbkgbmkaugqmkgvzugrl
luu ;--bmugvowmv.ubagswklgbmugprlxuza,gxzvffvzagrlgxuabszu,gvl gbmu
airuliuagqmrimgvzugklotg.tgbmufguhuzirau gvl guhwzuaau ;gvl gbmuglvbrkla
bmvbgWorltgzuwkzbagmvnuglkgkbmuzgovlxsvxujgVlgvf.vaav kzgkpgbmugirbtgkp
V. uzv,gvpbuzgvgoklxgiklpuzuliugqrbmgVxra,gCrlxgkpgAwvzbv,g ufvl u gkp
mrf,g“Quoo,garz,gqmvbgvlaquzgfsabgRgzubszlgbkgftgpuookq-irbrdula?”g“Bmvb
Rgmvnugxrnulgbmuugouvnu,”gavr gmu,g“bkgavtgqmvbgbmksgqkso uab,gvl gva
fsimgvagbmksgqkso uab,gqrbmksbgunuzgawuvcrlxgvgqkz j”graglkbgbmragv
aroulbgawuvcrlx,gvl gnuztguvatgbkg.ugsl uzabkk ?

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gqmvbgragbmuzugrlgsagbmvbgqug kglkbgauugrlgbmugkwuzvbrkla
kpgvlrfvoa?gRagbmuzugvgwkorbtg.ubbuzgkz uzu ,gbmugkppriuag.ubbuz
 rabzr.sbu ,gvl gfkzugrlnrkov.otgk.auznu gvl gfvrlbvrlu ,gbmvlgbmvb
kpg.uua?gIvlgqugrfvxrlugbmvbgasim,gvl gakgzuxsovz,gvg rabzr.sbrklgkp
ufwoktfulbagivlg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmksbgzuvaklrlxgvl g uor.uzvbrkl?


gggggg“Muliugbkgbmug.uugakfugavxuagmvnugvaarxl’ 
gggAkfugwkzbrklgkpgbmugxk gvl gmuvnulotgqrl j”


Bmugaqvookqagbmvbgqugauugvbgbmugzubszlgkpgbmugawzrlx,gauvzimrlxgvoogbmu
ikzluzagkpgkszgmksauagpkzgbmugfkabgikffk rksagwoviuagqmuzurlgbkg.sro 
bmurzgluab;g kgbmutgauucgqrbmksbgys xfulb,gvl gvfklxabgvgbmksavl gimkkau
ksbgbmugfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgbmurzgwszwkau,gqrbmksbg raizubrkl?gVl grlgbmvb
uouxvlbgvl gv frzv.ougiklbuhbszugkpgbmurzg.sro rlxa,givlg.rz agzvbmuz
fvcugimkriugkpgvgaesvzugprxszugbmvlgvgzksl ,gkpgvlgk.bsaugbmvlgkpgv
zrxmbgvlxou,gqrbmksbgclkqrlxgbmurzgwzkwuzbruagvl guppuiba?g kgbmutg.zrlx
qvbuz,gvl gbmulgiovt,gqrbmksbgclkqrlxgbmvbgbmugmvz luaagkpgbmugovbbuz
xzkqagakpbuzg.tg.urlxgqubbu ?g kgbmutgfvbgbmurzgwvoviugqrbmgfkaagkzg kql
qrbmksbgpkzuauurlxgbmvbgbmurzgbul uzgtkslxgqroogorugfkzugavpugvl guvat?
 kgbmutgauiszugbmufauonuagpzkfgbmugqubgvl gzvrltgqrl a,gvl gwoviugbmurz
ok xrlxagvxvrlabgbmuguvab,gqrbmksbgclkqrlxgbmug rppuzulbgesvorbruagkp
bmugqrl a,gvl giklar uzrlxgbmvbgklugragfkzugqmkouakfugbmvlgvlkbmuz?
Qmtg kuagbmugawr uzgfvcugmuzgqu.gbrxmbuzgrlgklugwoviu,gvl gaovicuzgrl
vlkbmuz;gqmtglkqgfvcugklugakzbgkpgclkb,gvl gbmulgvlkbmuz,grpgamugmvaglkb
 uor.uzvbrkl,gbmksxmb,gvl gikliosarkl?gQugaspprirulbotg raiknuzgrlgfkab
kpgbmurzgqkzcagmkqgfsimgvlrfvoaguhiuogsa,gvl gmkqgslv.ougkszgvzbgragbk
rfrbvbugbmufjgQugauu,glunuzbmuouaa,grlgkszgzksxmuzgwuzpkzfvliua,gbmvbgqu
ufwoktgvoogkszgpvisobrua,gvl gvwwotgbmugsbfkabgwkquzgkpgkszgaksoa;gqmt
 kgquglkbgiklios ugbmugavfugkpgbmuf?

Qmtgamkso gqugvbbzr.sbugbkgRgclkqglkbgqmvbglvbszvogvl gauznrou
rliorlvbrklgbmugqkzcagbmvbguhiuogvoogqugivlg kg.tglvbszugvl gvzb?
qmuzurl,gqrbmksbg.urlxgvqvzu,gqugxrnugbmufgvgfrxmbtgv nvlbvxugknuzgsa
rlgfvcrlxglvbszu,gqrbmgfvbuzlvogxulbouluaagvl goknu,gviikfwvltgvl gouvzl
bmuf,gvagrbgquzu,g.tgbmugmvl gbkgvoogbmugvibrklagvl gikffk rbruagkp
bmurzgorpu,gqmroabgamugouvnuagsagbkgimvliugvl gpkzbslu,gvl gbkgauucgksb
.tgvzbgbmugbmrlxagbmvbgvzugluiuaavztgbkgkszgiklauznvbrkl,gvbgbmugavfu
brfug ultrlxgsagbmugfuvlagkpg.urlxgv.ou,g.tgvltgrlabzsibrklgkzguppkzbgkp
sl uzabvl rlx,gbkgvzzrnugvbgbmuglvbszvogaspprirulitgkpg.uvaba;gakgbmvb
bmurzg.zsbramgabswr rbtgaszwvaaua,grlgvoogiklnulruliua,gvoogbmvbgksz
 rnrlugrlbuoorxuliugivlg kjgZuvoot,gvbgbmragzvbu,gqugfrxmbgqrbmgxzuvb
zuvaklgivoogmuzgvlgslysabgabuwfkbmuz:g.sbgrbgraglkbmrlxgak,gkszgwkorbt
raglkbgakgrzzuxsovzgvl gslpkzfu j

Lvbszugmvagslrnuzavootgivzu gpkzgvoogmuzgizuvbszua,gvl gbmuzugraglkb
klugamugmvaglkbgvfwotgpszlramu gqrbmgvoogfuvlagluiuaavztgpkzgbmu
iklauznvbrklgkpgrbag.urlxjgPkzgbmugikffklgikfwovrlbagRgmuvzgfulgfvcug(va
bmugoriulaugkpgbmurzgkwrlrklagklugqmrougorpbagbmufgswgv.knugbmugioks a,
vl gbmulgvxvrlg uwzuaauagbmufgbkgbmugvlbrwk ua),gbmvbgqugvzugbmugklot
vlrfvogv.vl klu glvcu gswklgbmug.vzuguvzbm,gbru gvl g.ksl ,glkbgmvnrlx
qmuzuqrbmvogbkgvzfgvl giokbmugsag.sbg.tgbmugawkrogkpgkbmuza;gqmuzuva
lvbszugmvagiknuzu gvoogkbmuzgizuvbszuagurbmuzgqrbmgamuooa,gmsaca,
.vzc,gmvrz,gqkko,gwzricoua,gouvbmuz,g kql,gpuvbmuza,gaivoua,gkzgaroc,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugluiuaarbruagkpgbmurzg.urlx;gmvagvzfu gbmufgqrbmgbvokla,
buubm,gkzgmkzla,gqmuzuqrbmgbkgvaavsobgvl g upul ,gvl gmvagmuzauopgbvsxmb
bmufgbmvbgqmrimgragfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgbmuf,gbkgaqrf,gbkgzsl,gbkgpot,gvl 
arlx,gqmuzuvagfvlglurbmuzgclkqagmkqgbkgqvoc,gawuvc,guvb,gkzg kgvltgbmrlx
.sbgquuw,gqrbmksbgbuvimrlx;


gggggg“Orcugbkgbmugqzubimu gfvzrluz,gqmulgbkaa’ 
ggg.tgzvxrlxgauvagswklgbmug uauzbgikvab,
gggBmugbul uzg.v.ugoruaglvcu gklgbmuguvzbm,
gggKpgvoogaswwkzbagkpgorpugabzrwbg.tgmrag.rzbm;
gggQmulglvbszugprzabgwzuaulbagmrfgbkgbmug vt,
gggPzuu gpzkfgbmugiuoogqmuzurlg.upkzugmugovt,
gggMugprooagbmugvf.rulbgvrzgqrbmg koupsogizruaj
gggPkzubuoorlxgbmsagorpu’agpsbszugfrauzrua;
ggg.sbg.uvaba,g.kbmgqro gvl gbvfu,gxzuvbuzgvl gouaa,
ggg kgkpgbmufauonuagrlgabzulxbmgvl g.socgrlizuvau;
gggBmutgluu glkgzvbbou,glkzgbmug.zkculgimvb,
gggVtgqmrimgbmuglszaugprzabgbuvimuag.ktagbkgwzvbu
gggBmutgokkcglkbgksbgpkzg rppuzulbgzk.uagbkgquvz,
gggViikz rlxgbkgbmugauvaklagkpgbmugtuvz;
gggVl gluu glkgvzfaglkzgqvooagbmurzgxkk agbkgavnu,
gggArliuguvzbmgvl gor.uzvoglvbszugunuzgmvnu,
gggVl gqroo,grlgvoogv.sl vliu,gabroogwzk siu
gggVoogbmrlxagqmuzukpgbmutgivlgmvnugluu gkzgsau:”


bmuaugikfwovrlbagvzugpvoau;gbmuzugragrlgbmugwkorbtgkpgbmugqkzo gv
xzuvbuzguesvorbtgvl gfkzugslrpkzfgzuovbrkljgKszgacrlagvzugvagaspprirulb
bkg upul gsagpzkfgbmugrlyszruagkpgbmugquvbmuzgvagbmurzagvzu;gqrbluaa
aunuzvoglvbrklagbmvbgtubgclkqglkbgbmugsaugkpgiokbmuajgKszgvlirulbgXvsoa
quzug.sbgaoul uzotgiov ,gvltgfkzugbmvlgbmugRzram,gkszglurxm.ksza,gbmksxm
rlgakgiko gvgiorfvbu;g.sbgqugfvtg.ubbuzgys xugkpgbmrag.tgkszauonua:gpkz
voogbmkaugwvzbagbmvbgqugvzugwouvau gbkguhwkaugbkgbmugvrzgvzugpksl gnuzt
v.ougbkgul szugrb:gbmugpviu,gbmugpuub,gbmugmvl a,gbmugvzfa,gbmugmuv ,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugnvzrksagmv.rb;grpgbmuzug.ugvgbul uzgwvzbgv.ksbgsa,
vl gbmvbgqkso gauufgbkg.ugrlg vlxuzgpzkfgiko ,grbgamkso g.ugbmugabkfvim
qmuzugbmug rxuabrklgra;gvl gtubgkszgpkzupvbmuzagquzugbmuzugvoqvta
kwul,gvl gkszgov rua,gvagbul uzgvl g uorivbugvagbmutgvzu,gxkgakfubrfua
mvop-.vzugvagokqgvagbmuglvnuojgLurbmuzgragbmug.rl rlxgkzgaqvbmrlxgkp
rlpvlbagvltgfkzugluiuaavzt;gvl gbmugOviu æfkfvlgfkbmuzag.zksxmbgbmurza
rlgvoogor.uzbtgkpgfkbrklgkpgfuf.uza,gqrbmksbgvltgorxvbszugvbgvoojgKsz
iztrlxgragikffklgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgkbmuzgvlrfvoa,gvl gbmuzugvzu
.sbgpuqgizuvbszuagbmvbgvzuglkbgk.auznu gbkgxzkvl,gvl g.ufkvlgbmufauonua
vgoklxgbrfugvpbuzgbmutgikfugrlbkgbmugqkzo ;gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragv
.umvnrkszgasrbv.ougbkgbmugquvcluaagqmuzurlgbmutgprl gbmufauonuajgVa
bkgbmugisabkfgkpguvbrlx,grbgragrlgsa,gvagrlgbmuf,glvbszvo,gvl gqrbmksb
rlabzsibrkl;


gggggg“Pkzgunuztgklugakklgprl agmraglvbszvogpkziuj
gggQmrimgmu,gkzg.ubbuzgfvtgufwokt,gkzgqkzauj”


Qmkg ks.bag.sbgvlgrlpvlb,gvzzrnu gbkgbmugabzulxbmgkpgpuu rlxgmrfauop,
fvtgfvcugamrpbgbkgprl gakfubmrlxgbkguvbgVl gbmuguvzbmgwzk siuagvl 
kppuzagmrfgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgaswwotgmragluiuaarbt,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgisobszu
vl gvzbrpriu;gvl grpglkbgvbgvoogbrfua,glkgfkzug kuagamug kgrbgbkg.uvaba,
qrbluaagbmugwzknrarklgqugauugvlbagvl gkbmuzgizuvbszuagmkvz gswgvxvrlab
bmug uv gauvaklagkpgbmugtuvzjgBmugovbug raiknuzu glvbrkla,gakgv.sl vlbot
pszlramu gqrbmglvbszvogfuvbgvl g zrlc,gqrbmksbgivzu,gkzgqrbmksbgikkcuzt,
fvtgxrnugsagbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbg.zuv graglkbgkszgklotgpkk ,gvl gbmvb,
qrbmksbgbroovxu,gkszgfkbmuzglvbszugmvagwzknr u gsagaspprirulbotgkpgvoo
qugabvl grlgluu gkp:glvt,grbgvwwuvzagfkzugpsootgvl gwoulbrpsootgbmvlgamu
 kuagvbgwzuaulb,glkqgbmvbgqugmvnugv  u gkszgkqlgrl sabzt:


gggggg“Bmuguvzbmg r gprzabgawklbvluksaotgvppkz 
gggImkriugpzsrbagvl gqrluagbkgpszlramgksbgbmug.kvz ;
gggQrbmgmuz.agvl gpokq’zagslakqlgrlgnuz vlbgpruo aj
ggg.sbgaivziug.tgvzbgakgxkk gvgmvznuabgtruo a;
gggBmksxmgfulgvl gkhulgfsbsvootgmvnugabzknu,
gggQrbmgvoogbmurzgsbfkabgpkziugbmugakrogb’grfwzknu,”


bmug u.vsimuztgvl grzzuxsovzrbtgkpgkszgvwwubrbuagksbabzrwagvoogbmu
rlnulbrklagqugivlgiklbzrnugbkgavbraptgrbj

Vagbkgvzfa,gqugmvnugfkzuglvbszvogkluagbmvlgbmvlgfkabgkbmuzgvlrfvoagfkzu
nvzrksagfkbrklagkpgorf.a,gvl glvbszvootgvl gqrbmksbgouaaklguhbzvibgfkzu
auznriugpzkfgbmufjgBmkaugbmvbgvzugbzvrlu gbkgprxmbglvcu gvzugauul
bkgbmzkqgbmufauonuagrlbkgbmugorcugmvdvz agbmvbgqug kjgRpgakfug.uvaba
aszwvaagsagrlgbmragv nvlbvxu,gqugaszwvaagfvltgkbmuzajgVl gbmugrl sabzt
kpgpkzbrptrlxgbmug.k t,gvl giknuzrlxgrbg.tgviesrzu gfuvla,gqugmvnug.t
rlabrlibgvl glvbszvogwzuiuwb?gBmvbgrbgragak,gbmuguouwmvlbgamkqa
qmkgamvzwul,gvl gqmubagbmugbuubmgmugfvcuagsaugkpgrlgqvzg(pkzgmugmva
wvzbrisovzgkluagpkzgbmvbgauznriu,gqmrimgmugawvzua,gvl glunuzgufwokta
bmufgvbgvoogbkgvltgkbmuzgsau);gqmulg.sooagxkgbkgprxmb,gbmutgbkaagvl 
bmzkqgbmug sabgv.ksbgbmuf;g.kvzagqmubgbmurzgbsaca;gvl gbmugrimlusfkl,
qmulgmugragv.ksbgbkgulxvxugqrbmgbmugizkik rou,gpkzbrpruagmrag.k t,
vl giknuzagvl gizsabagrbgvoogknuzgqrbmgiokau-qzksxmbgvl gquoo-bufwuzu 
aorfu,gvagqrbmgvgisrzvaajgQmtgamvoogquglkbgavtgbmvbgrbgragvoakglvbszvo
pkzgsagbkgvzfgkszauonuagqrbmgqkk gvl grzkl?

Vagbkgawuuim,grbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgrpgrbg.uglkbglvbszvogrbgraglkb
luiuaavztjgLunuzbmuouaagRg.uorunugbmvbgvgimro gqmrimgmv g.uulg.zksxmbgsw
rlgvlgv.akosbugakorbs u,gzufkbugpzkfgvoogakirubtgkpgfulg(qmrimgqkso 
.ugvlguhwuzrfulbgnuztgmvz gbkgfvcu),gqkso gmvnugakfugcrl gkpgawuuimgbk
uhwzuaagmragfuvlrlxg.tjgVl g‘braglkbgbkg.ugaswwkau gbmvbglvbszugamkso 
mvnug ulru gbmvbgbkgsagqmrimgamugmvagxrnulgbkgaunuzvogkbmuzgvlrfvoa:
pkzgqmvbgragbmragpvisobtgqugk.auznugrlgbmuf,gkpgikfwovrlrlx,gzuykrirlx,
ivoorlxgbkgklugvlkbmuzgpkzgasiiksz,gvl grlnrbrlxguvimgkbmuzgbkgoknu,
qmrimgbmutg kgqrbmgbmugnkriu,gkbmuzgbmvlgawuuim?gVl gqmtgamkso gbmut
lkbgawuvcgbkgklugvlkbmuz?gBmutgawuvcgbkgsa,gvl gqugbkgbmufjgRlgmkqgfvlt
aunuzvogakzbagkpgqvtag kgqugawuvcgbkgkszg kxa,gvl gbmutgvlaquzgsa?
Qugiklnuzaugqrbmgbmufgrlgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgovlxsvxu,gvl gsaugkbmuz
vwwuoovbrkla,gbmvlgqug kgqrbmg.rz a,gmkxa,gkhul,gmkzaua,gvl gvobuzgbmu
r rkfgviikz rlxgbkgbmugcrl j


gggggg“Bmsagpzkfgklugaqvzfgkpgvlbagakfugavootgksbj
gggBkgawtgvlkbmuz’agabkicgkzgfvzcgrbagzksbj”


Ovibvlbrsagauufagbkgvbbzr.sbugbkg.uvabaglkbgklotgawuuim,g.sbgovsxmbuz
voakjgVl gbmug rppuzuliugkpgovlxsvxugqmrimgragauulgvfklxabgsa,gviikz rlx
bkgbmug rppuzuliugkpgikslbzrua,gragvoakgk.auznu grlgvlrfvoagkpgbmu
avfugcrl jgVzrabkbou,grlgwzkkpgkpgbmra,grlabvliuagbmugNvzrksagivooagkp
wvzbzr xua,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugarbsvbrklgkpgwoviua:


gggggg“Vl gnvzrksag.rz ag kgpzkfgbmurzgqvz.orlxgbmzkvba
gggVbgnvzrksagbrfua,gsbbuzgesrbug rppuzulbglkbua,
gggVl gakfugbmurzgmkvzaugaklxagqrbmgbmugauvaklagimvlxuj”


.sbgrbgragtubgbkg.ugclkqlgqmvbgovlxsvxugbmragimro gqkso gawuvc;gvl gkp
bmvbgqmvbgragavr g.tgxsuaagmvaglkgxzuvbgvwwuvzvliujgRpgvgfvlgqroogvoouxu
bkgfu,grlgkwwkarbrklgbkgbmragkwrlrkl,gbmvbgbmkaugqmkgvzuglvbszvootg uvp
awuvcglkb,gRgvlaquzgbmvbgbmragraglkbgklotg.uivsaugbmutgikso glkbgzuiurnu
bmugrlabzsibrklgkpgawuvcrlxg.tguvz,g.sbgzvbmuzg.uivsaugbmugaulaugkp
muvzrlx,gkpgqmrimgbmutgvzug uwzrnu ,gzuovbuagbkgbmvbgkpgawuvcrlx,gvl 
bmvbgbmuaugmko gbkxubmuzg.tgvglvbszvogvl grlauwvzv.ougbru,grlgasim
fvlluzgbmvbgqmvbgqugawuvcgqugfsabgprzabgawuvcgbkgkszauonuagqrbmrl,gvl 
fvcugrbgaksl grlgkszgkqlguvza,g.upkzugqugivlgsbbuzgrbgbkgkbmuzaj

VoogbmragRgmvnugavr gbkgwzknugbmugzuauf.ovliugbmuzugragrlgmsfvlgbmrlxa,
vl gbkg.zrlxgsag.vicgvl gykrlgsagbkgbmugizkq jgQugvzuglurbmuzgv.knuglkz
.uokqgbmugzuabgVoogbmvbgragsl uzgmuvnul,gavtagbmugavxu,gzslagklugovqgvl 
klugpkzbslu:


gggggg“Voogbmrlxagzufvrl
ggg.ksl gvl gulbvlxou grlgklugpvbvogimvrlj”


Bmuzugra,grl uu ,gakfug rppuzuliu,--bmuzugvzugaunuzvogkz uzagvl 
 uxzuua;g.sbgrbgragsl uzgbmugvawuibgkpgklugvl gbmugavfuglvbszu:


gggggg“Voogbmrlxag.tgbmurzgkqlgzrbuagwzkiuu ,gvl g zvq
gggBkqvz agbmurzgul a,g.tglvbszu’agiuzbvrlgovqj”


Fvlgfsabg.ugikfwuoou gvl gzuabzvrlu gqrbmrlgbmug.ksl agkpgbmragwkorbtj
Frauzv.ougizuvbszu!gmugraglkbgrlgvgikl rbrklgzuvootgbkgabuwgknuzgbmu
zvrojgMugragpubbuzu gvl girzisfaizr.u ,gmugragas.yuibu gbkgbmugavfu
luiuaarbtgbmvbgbmugkbmuzgizuvbszuagkpgmragzvlcgvl gkz uzgvzu,gvl gkp
vgnuztgfuvlgikl rbrkl,gqrbmksbgvltgwzuzkxvbrnugkpgbzsugvl gzuvo
wzu-ufrluliujgBmvbgqmrimgmugvbbzr.sbuagbkgmrfauop,g.tgnvrlgpvlitgvl 
kwrlrkl,gmvaglurbmuzg.k tglkzgbvabujgVl grpgrbg.ugak,gbmvbgmugklot,gkp
voogbmugvlrfvoa,gmvagbmragor.uzbtgkpgrfvxrlvbrklgvl grzzuxsovzrbtgkp
bmksxmba,gzuwzuaulbrlxgbkgmrfgbmvbgqmrimgra,gbmvbgqmrimgraglkb,gvl gbmvb
mugqkso gmvnu,gbmugpvoaugvl gbmugbzsu,g‘bragvlgv nvlbvxug uvzotg.ksxmb,
vl gkpgqmrimgmugmvagnuztgorbbougzuvaklgbkg.ugwzks ;gpkzgbmuliugawzrlxa
bmugwzrlirwvogvl gkzrxrlvogpkslbvrlgkpgvoogbmugunroagbmvbg.upvo
mrf,--arl,garicluaa,grzzuakosbrkl,gvpporibrkl,g uawvrzjgRgavt,gbmul,
bkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgvwwuvzvliugbkgrl siugvgfvlgbk
.uorunugbmvbg.uvabagamkso ,g.tgvglvbszvogvl gpkziu grliorlvbrkl,g kgbmu
avfugbmrlxagbmvbgqug kg.tgkszgimkriugvl grl sabztjgQugksxmbgpzkfgorcu
uppuibagbkgiklios ugorcugpvisobrua,gvl gpzkfgxzuvbuzguppuibagxzuvbuz
pvisobrua;gvl giklauesulbotgiklpuaagbmvbgbmugavfugzuvaklrlx,gvl gbmu
avfugqvtag.tgqmrimgqugkwuzvbu,gvzugikffklgqrbmgbmuf,gkzgbmvbgbmutgmvnu
kbmuzagbmvbgvzug.ubbuzjgQmtgamkso gqugrfvxrlugbmraglvbszvogiklabzvrlbgrl
bmuf,gqmkguhwuzruliuglkgasimguppuibgrlgkszauonua?gv  u gbmvbgrbgragfkzu
mklkszv.ougbkg.ugxsr u gvl gk.orxu gbkgvibgzuxsovzotg.tgvglvbszvogvl 
rlunrbv.ougikl rbrkl,gvl gluvzuzgvooru gbkgbmug rnrlrbt,gbmvlgbkgvib
zuxsovzotg.tgvgbufuzvzrksagvl gpkzbsrbksagor.uzbt,gvl gfkzugavpugbk
ulbzsabgbmugzurlagkpgkszgikl sibgrlgbmugmvl agkpglvbszugbmvlgksz
kqljgBmugnvlrbtgkpgkszgwzuasfwbrklgfvcuagsagwzupuzgzvbmuzgbkgkqugksz
aspprirulitgbkgkszgkqlguhuzbrklagbmvlgbkgmuzg.kslbt,gvl gbkgulzrimgbmu
kbmuzgvlrfvoagqrbmglvbszvogxkk a,gvl gv.yszugbmufgrlgbmurzgpvnksz,
rlgkz uzgbkgmklkszgvl gullk.ougkszauonuagqrbmgxkk agviesrzu ,gnuzt
pkkoramotgrlgftgkwrlrkl;gpkzgRgamkso gvagfsimgnvosugwvzbagvl gnrzbsua
lvbszvootgvl gwszuotgftgkqlgvagbmkaugRgmv g.uxxu gvl gk.bvrlu gpzkf
u sivbrkljgRbgraglkbgrlgkszgwkquzgbkgk.bvrlgvglk.ouzgzuwsbvbrklgbmvlgbk
.ugpvnkszu gkpgXk gvl glvbszuj

Pkzgrlabvliu,gbvcugbmugpkh,gbmugwukwougkpgBmzviugfvcugsaugkpgqmulgbmut
qramgbkgwvaagknuzgbmugriugkpgakfugpzkdulgzrnuz,gvl gbszlgmrfgksbg.upkzu
bmufgbkgbmvbgwszwkau;gqmulgqugauugmrfgovtgmraguvzgswklgbmug.vlcgkp
bmugzrnuz,g kqlgbkgbmugriu,gbkgorabulgrpgpzkfgvgfkzugzufkbugkzgluvzuz
 rabvliugmugivlgmuvzgbmuglkraugkpgbmugqvbuza’giszzulb,gvl ,gviikz rlxgva
mugprl ag.tgbmvbgbmugriugbkg.ugkpgvgouaagkzgxzuvbuzgbmricluaa,gbkgzubrzu
kzgv nvliu,--mvnugquglkbgzuvaklgbkg.uorunugbmuliugbmvbgbmugavfugzvbrklvo
bmksxmbagwvaau gbmzksxmgmragmuv gbmvbgqugamkso gmvnugswklgbmugorcu
kiivarkla;gvl gbmvbgrbgragvgzvbrkirlvbrklgvl giklauesuliu,g zvqlgpzkf
lvbszvogaulau,gbmvbgbmvbgqmrimgfvcuagvglkraugzsla,gbmvbgqmrimgzsla
raglkbgpzkdul,gqmvbgraglkbgpzkdulgragoresr ,gvl gbmvbgqmrimgragoresr 
truo agbkgrfwzuaarkl!gPkzgbkgvbbzr.sbugbmragbkgvgfuzugesricluaagkpgbmu
aulaugkpgmuvzrlx,gqrbmksbgzuvaklgvl giklauesuliu,gragvgimrfæzvgbmvb
ivllkbgulbuzgrlbkgbmugrfvxrlvbrkljgQugvzugbkgaswwkaugbmugavfugkp
bmugfvltgakzbagkpgas.boubruagvl grlnulbrklagqrbmgqmrimg.uvabagauiszu
bmufauonuagpzkf,gvl gpzsabzvbu,gbmugulbuzwzrduagqugwokbgvxvrlabgbmufj

Vl grpgqugqroogfvcugvlgv nvlbvxugunulgkpgbmra,gbmvbgrbgragrlgkszgwkquz
bkgaurdugbmuf,gbkgufwoktgbmufgrlgkszgauznriu,gvl gbkgsaugbmufgvbgksz
wouvaszu,g‘bragabroog.sbgbmugavfugv nvlbvxugqugmvnugknuzgklugvlkbmuzjgQu
mvnugkszgaovnuagswklgbmuaugbuzfa:gbmugIorfvir æ,gquzugbmutglkbgqkful
rlgAtzrvgqmk,gaesvbgklgvoogpksza,gauznu gpkzgvgov  uzgkzgpkkbabkko,g.t
qmrimgbmugov ruagfkslbu gbmurzgikvimua?gVl gbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgpzuu
wuzaklagaszzul uz,gpkzgnuztgbzrnrvogiklnulruliua,gbmurzgorpugvl g.urlx
rlbkgbmugwkquzgkpgvlkbmuzjgBmugqrnuagvl giklis.rluagkpgbmugBmzvirvla
iklbul u gqmkgamkso g.ugimkaulgbkg.ugaovrlgswklgbmurzgmsa.vl ’agbkf.j
Mvnugbtzvlbagunuzgpvrou gkpgprl rlxgfulgulksxmgnkqu gbkgbmurzg unkbrkl?
akfugkpgbmufgfkzuknuzgv  rlxgbmragluiuaarbt,gkpgviikfwvltrlxgbmufgrl
 uvbmgvagquoogvagorpu?gQmkougvzfruagmvnug.ksl gbmufauonuagvpbuzgbmra
fvlluzgbkgbmurzgivwbvrlajgBmugpkzfgkpgbmugkvbmgrlgbmugzs ugaimkkogkp
xov rvbkzagqvagrlgbmuaugqkz a:g“Qugaquvzgbkgasppuzgkszauonuagbkg.u
imvrlu ,g.szlb,gqksl u ,gvl gcroou gqrbmgbmugaqkz ,gvl gbkgul szugvoo
bmvbgbzsugxov rvbkzagasppuzgpzkfgbmurzgfvabuz,gzuorxrksaotgulxvxrlxg.kbm
.k tgvl gaksogrlgmragauznriuj”


ggggggSrzugfusf,gargnra,gpovffvgivwsb,gubgwubugpuzzk
gggIkzwsa,gubgrsbkzbkgnuz.uzugbuzxvgauivj

gggggg“Qksl gfugqrbmgabuuo,gkzg.szlgftgmuv gqrbmgprzuj
gggKzgaikszxugftgamkso uzagqrbmgquoo-bqrabu gqrzuj”


Bmragqvagvlgk.orxvbrklgrl uu ,gvl gtubgbmuzu,grlgklugtuvz,gbulgbmksavl 
ulbuzu grlbkgrb,gbkgbmurzg uabzsibrkljgQmulgbmugAitbmrvlagrlbuzzu gbmurz
crlxgbmutgabzvlxou gswklgmrag.k tgbmugfkabg.uoknu gkpgmragiklis.rlua,
mragisw-.uvzuz,gbmugfvabuzgkpgmragmkzau,gmragimvf.uzovrl,gbmugsamuzgkp
mragimvf.uz,gvl gmragikkcjgVl gswklgbmugvllrnuzavztgbmuzukpgbmutgcroou 
prpbtgmkzaua,gfkslbu g.tgprpbtgwvxua,gbmvbgbmutgmv grfwvou gvoogswgbmu
awrlugkpgbmug.vicgbkgbmugbmzkvb,gvl gbmuzugoupbgbmufgprhu grlgbzrsfwm
v.ksbgmragbkf.jgBmugfulgbmvbgauznugsag kgrbgimuvwuz,gvl gpkzgvgouaa
ivzupsogvl gpvnkszv.ougsavxugbmvlgqmvbgqugbzuvbgkszgmvqca,gmkzauagvl 
 kxagqrbmvojgBkgqmvbgakorirbs ug kgquglkbgas.frbgpkzgbmugiklnulruliuagkp
bmuau?gRg kglkbgbmrlcgbmvbgauznvlbagkpgbmugfkabgv.yuibgikl rbrklgqkso 
qroorlxotg kgbmvbgpkzgbmurzgfvabuzagbmvbgwzrliuagbmrlcgrbgvlgmklkszgbk
 kgpkzgbmurzg.uvabajg rkxuluagauurlxgmragzuovbrklagakorirbksagbkgzu uuf,
mrfgpzkfgauznrbs u:g“Bmutgvzugpkkoa,”gavr gmu;g“‘bragmugbmvbgcuuwagvl 
lkszramuagfugbmvbgrlgzuvorbtgauznuagfuj”gVl gbmutgqmkgulbuzbvrlg.uvaba
ksxmbgzvbmuzgbkg.ugavr gbkgauznugbmuf,gbmvlgbkg.ugauznu g.tgbmufjgVl 
qrbmvogrlgbmragbmuaugmvnugakfubmrlxgfkzugxuluzksagrlgbmvbgklugorkl
lunuzgas.frbbu gbkgvlkbmuzgorkl,glkzgklugmkzaugbkgvlkbmuz,gpkzgqvlbgkp
ikszvxujgVagqugxkgbkgbmugimvaugkpg.uvaba,gakg kgbrxuzagvl gorklagbk
bmugimvaugkpgful,gvl g kgbmugavfuguhuisbrklgswklgklugvlkbmuz;g kxagswkl
mvzua,gwrcuagswklgbulim,gaqvookqagswklgxzvaa-mkwwuza,gvl gawvzzkq-mvqca
swklg.ovic.rz agvl govzca:


gggggg“Bmugabkzcgqrbmgalvcuagvl gordvz agpzkfgbmugqkk 
gggVl gwvbmouaagqro agaswwkzbagmuzgivookqg.zkk ,
gggQmrougYknu’agkqlguvxou,g.rz gkpglk.oug.okk ,
gggAikszagbmugqr ugikslbztgpkzgsl vslbu gpkk ;
gggAquuwagbmugaqrpbgmvzugkzgaqrpbuzgpvqlgvqvt,
gggVl gpuu agmuzgluaborlxagqrbmgbmugxuluzksagwzutj”


Qug rnr ugbmugesvzzt,gvagquoogvagbmugwvrlagvl gov.kszgkpgbmugimvau,gqrbm
kszgmvqcagvl gmksl ajgVl gv.ksbgVfwmrwkora,grlgBmzviu,gbmugmvqcuzagvl 
qro gpvoiklaguesvootg rnr ugbmugwzutgrlgbmugmvopjgVagvoakgvoklxgbmugovcu
Fækbra,grpgbmugpramuzfvlg kuaglkbgmkluabotgouvnugbmugqkonuagvlguesvo
amvzugkpgqmvbgmugmvagivsxmb,gbmutgwzuaulbotgxkgvl gbuvzgmraglubagrl
wruiuajgVl gvagqugmvnugvgqvtgkpgawkzbrlxgbmvbgragivzzru gklgfkzug.t
as.boubtgbmvlgpkziu,gvagawzrlxrlxgmvzua,gvl gvlxorlxgqrbmgorlugvl gmkkc,
bmuzugragvoakgbmugorcugvfklxabgkbmuzgvlrfvoajgVzrabkbougavtagbmvbgbmu
isbbou-pramgivabagvgxsbgksbgkpgmuzgbmzkvbgvagoklxgvagvgorlu,gqmrimgamu
uhbul agvl g zvqag.vicgvbgwouvaszu;gvl gvagamugwuziurnuagakfugorbbou
pramgvwwzkvimgmuzgamugoubagrbglr..ougswklgbmugul gkpgbmragxsb,gotrlx
muzauopgikliuvou grlgbmugavl gkzgfs ,gvl g.tgorbbougvl gorbboug zvqagrb
rl,gbroogbmugorbbougpramgragakgluvzgmuzgbmvbgvbgklugawzrlxgamugfvtgivbim
rbj

Vagbkgabzulxbm,gbmuzugraglkgizuvbszugrlgbmugqkzo guhwkau gbkgakgfvlt
rlyszruagvagfvljgQugluu glkbgvgqmvou,guouwmvlb,gkzgvgizkik rou,glkzgvlt
asim-orcugvlrfvoa,gkpgqmrimgklugvoklugragaspprirulbgbkg rawvbimgvgxzuvb
lsf.uzgkpgful,gbkg kgkszg.sarluaa;goriugvzugaspprirulbgbkgnvivbugAtoov’a
 ribvbkzamrw;gvl gbmugmuvzbgvl gorpugkpgvgxzuvbgvl gbzrsfwmvlbgufwuzkz
ragbmug.zuvcpvabgkpgvgorbbougiklbufwbr.ougqkzf!

Qmtgamkso gqugavtgbmvbgrbgragklotgpkzgfvl,gkzgclkqou xug.srobgswg.t
vzbgvl gfu rbvbrkl,gbkg rabrlxsramgbmugbmrlxagsaupsogpkzgmrag.urlx,gvl 
wzkwuzgpkzgbmugiszugkpgmrag rauvaua,gvl gbmkaugqmrimgvzuglkb;gbkgclkq
bmugnrzbsuagkpgzms.vz.gvl gwkotwk tjgQmulgqugauugbmugxkvbagkpgIvl rv,
qmulgqksl u gqrbmgvlgvzzkq,gvfklxgvgfroorklgkpgwovlbagimkkaugksb
 rbbvltgpkzgbmurzgiszu;gvl gbmugbkzbkrau,gqmulgamugmvaguvbulgvgnrwuz,
rffu rvbuotgxkgksbgbkgokkcgpkzgkzrxvlsfgbkgwszxugmuz;gbmug zvxklgbkgzs.
vl giouvzgmragutuagqrbmgpulluo;gbmugabkzcagbkgxrnugbmufauonuagiotabuza
kpgauv-qvbuz;gbmuguouwmvlbagbkg zvqglkbgklotgksbgkpgbmurzgkqlg.k rua,
vl gbmkaugkpgbmurzgikfwvlrkla,g.sbgksbgkpgbmug.k ruagkpgbmurzgfvabuza
bkkg(qrbluaagbmuguouwmvlbgkpgCrlxgWkzsagqmkfgVouhvl uzg upuvbu ),gbmu
 vzbagvl gyvnuorlagbmzkqlgvbgbmufgrlg.vbbou,gvl gbmvbgakg uhbuzksaot
bmvbgqugkszauonuagikso glkbg kgrbgqrbmgakgorbbougwvrlgbkgbmu
wvbrulb;--qmtg kgquglkbgavtgmuzugvoakgbmvbgbmragragclkqou xugvl gzuvakl?
Pkzgbkgvoouxu,gbkgbmurzg rawvzvxufulb,gbmvbg‘brag.tgbmugakougrlabzsibrkl
vl g ribvbugkpglvbszugbmvbgbmutgclkqgvoogbmra,graglkbgbkgbvcugpzkfgbmuf
bmug rxlrbtgkpgclkqou xugvl gzuvakl,g.sbgqrbmgxzuvbuzgpkziugbkgvbbzr.sbu
rbgbkgbmufgbmvlgbkgsa,gpkzgbmugmklkszgkpgakgrlpvoor.ougvgfrabzuaaj
Imztarwwsa,gbmksxmgrlgkbmuzgbmrlxagvagaikzlpsogvgys xugkpgbmugikl rbrkl
kpgvlrfvoagvagvltgkbmuzgwmrokakwmuzgqmvbunuz,giklar uzrlxgbmugfkbrklagkp
vg kx,gqmkgikfrlxgbkgvgwoviugqmuzugbmzuugqvtagfub,gurbmuzgbkgmslbgvpbuz
mragfvabuzgmugmvagokab,gkzgrlgwszasrbgkpgakfugxvfugbmvbgporuag.upkzu
mrf,gxkuagalspprlxgprzabgrlgklugkpgbmugqvta,gvl gbmulgrlgvlkbmuz,gvl ,
vpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugmrfauopgaszugkpgbqk,gqrbmksbgprl rlxgbmugbzviugkp
qmvbgmugauuca,g vamuagrlbkgbmugbmrz gqrbmksbguhvfrlvbrkl,gragpkziu gbk
iklpuaagbmvbgbmragzuvaklrlxgragrlgbmug kx:g“Rgmvnugbzviu gftgfvabuzgbk
bmragwoviu;gmugfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugxklugklugkpgbmuaugbmzuugqvta;gmugra
lkbgxklugbmragqvtglkzgbmvb,gmugfsabgbmulgrlpvoor.otg.ugxklugbmragkbmuz;”
gvl gbmvbgvaaszrlxgmrfauopg.tgbmragikliosarkl,gmugfvcuaglkgsaugkpgmra
lkaugrlgbmugbmrz gqvt,glkzgunuzgovtagrbgbkgbmugxzksl ,g.sbgasppuza
mrfauopgbkg.ugivzzru gklgbmuzug.ngbmugpkziugkpgzuvakljgBmragavoot,
wszuotgokxrivo,gvl gbmragsaugkpgwzkwkarbrklag rnr u gvl giklykrlu ,gvl 
bmugzrxmbgulsfuzvbrklgkpgwvzba,gragrbglkbgunuztgqmrbgvagxkk gbmvbgbmu
 kxgclkqagvoogbmragkpgmrfauopgvagquoogvagpzkfgBzvwudslbrsa?

Vlrfvoagvzuglkbgrlivwv.ou,gmkqunuz,gkpg.urlxgrlabzsibu gvpbuzgksz
fubmk jgQugbuvimg.ovic.rz a,gzvnula,gwrua,gvl gwvzzkba,gbkgawuvc:gvl 
bmugpvirorbtgqmuzuqrbmgqugauugbmutgoul gsagbmurzgnkriua,gvl gzul uzg.kbm
bmufgvl gbmurzg.zuvbmgakgaswwougvl gworvlb,gbkg.ugpkzfu gvl giklprlu 
qrbmrlgvgiuzbvrlglsf.uzgkpgoubbuzagvl gatoov.oua,g kuagunrliugbmvbgbmut
mvnugvgzuvaklgqrbmrl,gqmrimgzul uzagbmufgakg kirougvl gqroorlxgbkgouvzlj
Unuzt.k t,gRg.uorunu,gragxosbbu gqrbmgbmugaunuzvogakzbagkpgbzricagbmvb
bsf.ouzagbuvimgbmurzg kxa;gbmug vliua,gqmuzugbmutg kglkbgfraagvltgklu
iv uliugkpgbmugaksl gbmutgmuvz;gbmugaunuzvognvzrksagfkbrklagvl gouvwa
bmutgfvcugbmufgwuzpkzfg.tgbmugikffvl gkpgvgqkz jg.sbgRgk.auznugbmra
uppuibgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgv frzvbrkl,gqmrimglunuzbmuouaagragnuztgikffkl,
rlgbmug kxagbmvbgouv gbmug.orl ,g.kbmgrlgbmugikslbztgvl grlgirbrua:gR
mvnugbvculglkbriugmkqgbmutgabkwgvbgiuzbvrlg kkza,gqmuzugbmutgvzugqklb
bkgzuiurnugvofa;gmkqgbmutgvnkr gbmugulikslbuzgkpgikvimuagvl givzba,gunul
bmuzugqmuzugbmutgmvnugaspprirulbgzkkfgbkgwvaa;gRgmvnugauulgbmuf,g.tgbmu
bzulimgkpgvgbkql,gpkzavcugvgwovrlgvl gunulgwvbmgvl gbvcugvgqkzau,gklot
bkgcuuwgbmurzgfvabuzagpszbmuzgpzkfgbmug rbim;--mkqgikso gvgfvlgmvnu
fv ugbmrag kxgsl uzabvl gbmvbgrbgqvagmragkppriugbkgokkcgbkgmragfvabuz’a
avpuotgklot,gvl gbkg uawraugmragkqlgiklnulrulitgbkgauznugmrf?gVl gmkq
mv gmugbmugclkqou xugbmvbgvgqvtgqvagqr ugulksxmgpkzgmrfgbmvbgqvaglkbgak
pkzgvg.orl gfvl?gIvlgvoogbmrag.ugvwwzumul u gqrbmksbgzvbrkirlvbrkl!

RgfsabglkbgkfrbgqmvbgWosbvzimgavtagmugavqgkpgvg kxgvbgZkfugqrbmgbmu
UfwuzkzgNuawvarvl,gbmugpvbmuz,gvbgbmugbmuvbzugkpgFvziuoosajgBmrag kx
auznu gvgwovtuz,gbmvbgwovtu gvgpvziugkpgaunuzvogwvzbagvl gwuzaklvxua,
vl gmv gbmuzurlgmragwvzbjgMugmv ,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbkgikslbuzpurb
mrfauopgpkzgakfugbrfug uv ,g.tgzuvaklgkpgvgiuzbvrlg zsxgmugqvagaswwkau 
bkguvbgVpbuzgmugmv gaqvookqu gvgwruiugkpg.zuv ,gqmrimgwvaau gpkzgbmu
 zsx,gmug.uxvlgvpbuzgvqmrougbkgbzuf.ougvl gabvxxuz,gvagrpgmugqvagbvcul
xr  t:gvbgovab,gabzubimrlxgmrfauopgksbgabrpp,gvagrpg uv ,gmugasppuzu 
mrfauopgbkg.ug zvqlgvl g zvxxu gpzkfgwoviugbkgwoviu,gvagrbgqvagmragwvzb
bkg k;gvl gvpbuzqvz ,gqmulgmugcluqgrbgbkg.ugbrfu,gmug.uxvlgprzabgxulbot
bkgabrz,gvagrpgvqvcrlxgksbgkpgvgwzkpksl gaouuw,gvl gorpbrlxgswgmragmuv 
okkcu gv.ksbgmrfgvpbuzgasimgvgfvlluzgvagvabklramu gvoogbmugawuibvbkzaj

Bmugkhulgbmvbgauznu grlgbmugzktvogxvz ulagkpgAsav,gbkgqvbuzgbmuf,gvl 
bszlgiuzbvrlgxzuvbgqmuuoagbkg zvqgqvbuzgpkzgbmvbgwszwkau,gbkgqmrim
.sicubagquzugpvabulu g(asimgvagbmuzugvzugfvltgrlgOvlxsu ki),g.urlx
kz uzu gunuztgklugbkg zvqgvgmsl zu gbszlagvg vt,gbmutgquzugakgviisabkfu 
bkgbmraglsf.uzgbmvbgrbgqvagrfwkaar.oug.tgvltgpkziugbkgfvcugbmufg zvqgklu
bszlgfkzu;g.sb,gbmurzgbvacg.urlxgwuzpkzfu ,gbmutgqkso gas  ulotgabkwgvl 
abvl gabroojgQugvzugvofkabgfulg.upkzugqugivlgikslbgvgmsl zu ,gvl gmvnu
ovbuotg raiknuzu glvbrklagbmvbgmvnuglkgclkqou xugkpglsf.uzagvbgvooj

Bmuzugragfkzugsl uzabvl rlxgzuesrzu grlgbmugbuvimrlxgkp’gkbmuzagbmvlgrl
.urlxgbvsxmbjgLkq,gaubbrlxgvar ugqmvbg ufkizrbsagmuo gvl gwzknu ,g“Bmvb
fkabgkpgbmugvzbagqugmvnugquzugbvsxmbgsag.tgkbmuzgvlrfvoa,”gvag.tgbmu
awr uzgbkgquvnugvl gauq;g.tgbmugaqvookqgbkg.sro ;g.tgbmugaqvlgvl 
lrxmbrlxvougfsari;gvl g.tgaunuzvogvlrfvoagbkgfvcugfu rirlua:--Vzrabkbou
ragkpgkwrlrklg“Bmvbgbmuglrxmbrlxvouagbuvimgbmurzgtkslxgkluagbkgarlx,gvl 
awul gvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbrfugvl givzugrlgrb;”gqmuliugrbgmvwwulagbmvbgbmkau
qug.zrlxgswgrlgivxua,gvl gqmrimgmvnuglkbgmv gbmugbrfugbkgouvzlgkpgbmurz
wvzulba,gqvlbgfsimgkpgbmugxzviugkpgbmurzgarlxrlx:gqugfvtgys xug.tgbmra
bmvbgbmutgrfwzknug.tg rairworlugvl gabs t;gvl ,gunulgvfklxabgbmugqro ,
rbgraglkbgvoogvl gunuztgklugvorcu--unuztgklugmvagouvzlbgbkg kg.ubbuz
kzgqkzau,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgivwvirbtjgVl gakgyuvoksagvzugbmutgklugkp
vlkbmuz,gqmroabgouvzlrlx,gbmvbgbmutgiklbulbrklgqrbmgufsovbrkl,gvl g.t
akgnrxkzksagvgiklbulbrklgbmvbgakfubrfuagbmugnvlesramu gpvoog uv gswklgbmu
woviu,gbmug.zuvbmgzvbmuzgpvrorlxgbmvlgbmugnkriujgBmugtkslxuzgzsfrlvbu
wularnuotgvl g.uxrlgbkgfsbbuzgakfug.zkculglkbua;gbmug rairwougorabula
bkgbmugfvabuz’agouaakl,gvl gxrnuagbmug.uabgviikslbgmugragv.ou;gbmut
vzugaroulbgktgbszla;gklugfvtgmuvzgpvsobagikzzuibu gvl gk.auznugakfu
zuwzumularklagkpgbmugbuvimuzjg“Ïgmvnugpkzfuzotgauul,”gavtagVzzrvl,g“vl
uouwmvlbgmvnrlxgvgitf.vogmslxgvbguvimgoux,gvl gvlkbmuzgpvabulu gbkgmra
bzslc,gvbgbmugaksl gkpgqmrimgvoogbmugkbmuzag vliu gzksl gv.ksbgmrf,
zrarlxgvl g.ul rlxgvbgiuzbvrlgiv uliua,gvagbmutgquzugxsr u g.t
bmugrlabzsfulb;gvl g‘bqvag uorxmbpsogbkgmuvzgbmragmvzfkltj”gRlgbmu
awuibviouagkpgZkfugbmuzugquzugkz rlvzrotgauulguouwmvlbagbvsxmbgbkgfknu
vl g vliugbkgbmugaksl gkpgbmugnkriu,g vliuagqmuzurlgquzugaunuzvogimvlxua
vl giv uliuagnuztgmvz gbkgouvzljgVl gakfugmvnug.uulgclkqlgakgrlbulbgswkl
bmurzgouaaklgvagwzrnvbuotgbkgwzvibriugrbg.tgbmufauonua,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmb
lkbg.ugimr  ulglkzg.uvbulg.tgbmurzgfvabuzaj

.sbgbmragkbmuzgabkztgkpgbmugwru,gkpgqmrimgqugmvnugWosbvzimgmrfauopgpkzgv
qvzzvlb,gragnuztgabzvlxujgAmugornu grlgvg.vz.uz’agamkwgvbgZkfu,gvl g r 
qkl uzagrlgrfrbvbrlxgqrbmgmuzgnkriugqmvbunuzgamugmuvz jgRbgmvwwulu gklu
 vtgbmvbgiuzbvrlgbzsfwubuzagabkk gvgxkk gqmrougaksl rlxg.upkzugbmu
amkwjgVpbuzgbmvb,gvl gvoogbmugluhbg vt,gbmugwrugqvagwularnu,g sf.,gvl 
fuovlimkori;gqmrimgunuztg.k tgqkl uzu gvb,gvl gbmksxmbgbmuglkraugkpgbmu
bzsfwubagmv gakgabswrpru gvl gvabklramu gmuzgbmvbgmuzgnkriugqva
xklugqrbmgmuzgmuvzrlxjg.sbgbmutgpksl gvbgovabgbmvbgrbgqvagvgwzkpksl 
fu rbvbrklgvl gvgzubrzrlxgrlbkgmuzauop,gmuzgbmksxmbaguhuzirarlxgvl 
wzuwvzrlxgmuzgnkriugbkgrfrbvbugbmugaksl gkpgbmkaugbzsfwuba,gakgbmvbgbmu
przabgnkriugamugsbbuzu gqvagwuzpuibotgbkgrfrbvbugbmurzgabzvrla,gabkwa,
vl gimvlxua;gmvnrlxg.tgbmragluqgouaaklgesrbbu gvl gbvculgrlg ra vrlgvoo
amugmv gouvzlu g.upkzuj

Rgqrooglkbgkfrbgbmragkbmuzguhvfwougkpgvg kx,gvoak,gqmrimgbmugavfu
Wosbvzimg(Rgvfgav otgiklpksl rlxgvoogkz uz,g.sbgRg kglkbgwzkwkau
vzzvlxufulbgmuzugvltgfkzugbmvlguoauqmuzugbmzksxmksbgftg.kkc)gqmrim
Wosbvzimgavtagmugavqgklg.kvz gvgamrwjgBmrag kxg.urlxgwsddou gmkqgbkgxub
bmugkrogbmvbgqvagrlgbmug.kbbkfgkpgvgyvz,gqmrimgmugikso glkbgzuvimgqrbm
mragbklxsug.tgzuvaklgkpgbmuglvzzkqgfksbmgkpgbmugnuaauo,gqulbgvl gpubimu 
abkluagvl goubgbmufgpvoogrlbkgbmugyvzgbroogmugfv ugbmugkrogzraugakgmrxm
bmvbgmugikso gzuvimgrbjgQmvbgragbmrag.sbgvlguppuibgkpgvgnuztgas.bou
ivwvirbt!g‘Bragavr gbmvbgbmugzvnulagkpg.vz.vztg kgbmugavfu,gqmulgbmu
qvbuzgbmutgqkso g zrlcgragbkkgokqjgBmragvibrklgragakfuqmvbgvcrlgbkgqmvb
Ys.v,gvgcrlxgkpgbmurzglvbrklgzuovbuagkpgbmuguouwmvlba:g“Bmvbgqmul,g.t
bmugizvpbgkpgbmugmslbuz,gklugkpgbmufgragbzvwwu grlgiuzbvrlg uuwgwrba
wzuwvzu gpkzgbmuf,gvl giknuzu gknuzgqrbmg.zsamgbkg uiurnugbmuf,gvoogbmu
zuab,grlgxzuvbg rorxuliu,g.zrlxgvgxzuvbgfvltgabkluagvl gokxagkpgqkk gbk
zvraugbmug.kbbkfgakgbmvbgmugfvtgxubgksbj”g.sbgbmragvlrfvo,grl
aunuzvogkbmuzguppuiba,gikfuagakgluvzgbkgmsfvlgivwvirbtgbmvb,gamkso gR
wvzbrisovzotgzuovbugvoogbmvbguhwuzruliugmvbmg uornuzu gbkgsa,gRgamkso 
uvarotgmvnugqmvbgRgsasvootgfvrlbvrlgxzvlbu :glvfuot,gbmvbgbmuzugragfkzu
 rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgasimgvl gasimgvgfvlgbmvlg.ubqrhbgasimgvg.uvabgvl 
asimgvgfvljgBmugcuuwuzgkpgvlguouwmvlbgrlgvgwzrnvbugmksaugkpgAtzrvgzk..u 
mrfgunuztgfuvogkpgbmugmvopgkpgmragvookqvliujgKlug vtgmragfvabuzgqkso 
mrfauopgpuu gmrf,gvl gwkszu gbmugpsoogfuvaszugkpg.vzoutgmugmv gkz uzu 
pkzgmragvookqvliugrlbkgmragfvlxuzgqmrimgbmuguouwmvlb,givabrlxgvlgvlxzt
okkcgvbgbmugcuuwuz,gqrbmgmragbzslcgauwvzvbu gbmugklu-mvopgpzkfgbmu
kbmuz,gvl gbmzsabgrbgvar u,g.tgbmvbg uiovzrlxgbmugqzklxgqvag klugmrfj
Vl gvlkbmuz,gmvnrlxgvgcuuwuzgbmvbgfrhu gabkluagqrbmgmragikzlgbkgfvcu
swgbmugfuvaszu,givfugbkgbmugwkbgqmuzugmugqvag.krorlxgfuvbgpkzgmragkql
 rlluz,gvl gproou grbgqrbmgvamuajgBmuaugvzugwvzbrisovzguppuiba:g.sbgbmvb
qmrimgvoogbmugqkzo gmvagauul,gvl gvoogbmugqkzo gclkqa,gbmvbgrlgvoogbmu
vzfruagkpgbmugOunvlbgklugkpgbmugxzuvbuabgpkziugiklarabu grlguouwmvlba,
qrbmgqmkfgbmutg r ,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gfsimgxzuvbuzguhuisbrklgbmvlgqu
lkqg kgqrbmgkszgvzbroouzt;gqmrimgbvcua,gwzubbtgluvzot,gbmurzgwoviugrl
vg vtgkpg.vbboug(vagfvtguvarotg.ugaswwkau g.tgasimgvagvzugquoogzuv grl
vlirulbgmrabkzt);


gggggg“Bmugarzuagkpgbmuaugmsxugvlrfvoagquzugqklb
gggBmugIvzbmvxrlrvlgMvllr.vogbkgfkslb;
gggKszgouv uzagvoakg r gbmuaug.uvabag.uabzr u,
gggVl gfkslbu gbmsagWtzzmsagmragpkuag upru ;
gggLvt,gfkzu,gswklgbmurzg.vicagbmutgsau gbkg.uvz
gggIvabouagqrbmgvzfu gikmkzbagbkgbmugqvzj”


Bmutgfsabgluiuaavzrotgmvnugnuztgiklpr ulbotgzuoru gswklgbmugpr uorbtgvl 
sl uzabvl rlxgkpgbmuaug.uvabagqmulgbmutgulbzsabu gbmufgqrbmgbmugnvlxsvz 
kpgvg.vbbou,gqmuzugbmugouvabgabkwgbmutgamkso gmvnugfv u,g.tgzuvaklgkp
bmug.socgvl gmuvnrluaagkpgbmurzg.k rua,gvl gbmugouvabgpzrxmbgbmvbgamkso 
mvnugfv ugbmufgpviugv.ksbgswklgbmurzgkqlgwukwou,gmv g.uulgulksxmgbk
awkrogvoo:gvl gbmuzugvzug.sbgpuqguhvfwouagqmuzugrbgmvagmvwwulu gbmvb
bmutgmvnugpvooulgpksogswklgbmurzgkqlgbzkkwa,gqmuzuvagqugkszauonuag.zuvc
rlbkgkszgkqlg.vbbvorklagvl gzksbgklugvlkbmuzjgBmutgmv gbmugimvzxuglkbgkp
klugarfwougfknufulbgklot,g.sbgkpgfvltgaunuzvogbmrlxagbkg.ugwuzpkzfu grl
bmug.vbbou:gvagbmugAwvlrvz ag r gbkgbmurzg kxagrlgbmurzgluqgiklesuabgkp
bmugRl rua,gbkgqmkfgbmutgxvnugwvtgvl gvookqu gbmufgvgamvzugrlgbmugawkro;
vl gbmkaugvlrfvoagamkqu gvagfsimg uhbuzrbtgvl gys xfulbgrlgwszasrlxgbmu
nribkztgvl gabkwwrlxgbmugwszasrb;grlgimvzxrlxgvl gzubrzrlx,gvagkiivarkl
zuesrzu ;gvl grlg rabrlxsramrlxgbmurzgpzrul agpzkfgbmurzgulufrua,gva
bmutg r gvz kszgvl gpruziuluaaj

Qugfkzugv frzugvl gnvosugbmrlxagbmvbgvzugslsasvogvl gabzvlxugbmvlgbmkau
kpgkz rlvztgk.auznvbrkljgRgmv glkbguoaugakgoklxgrlarabu gswklgbmuau
uhvfwoua:gpkzgRg.uorunugqmkunuzgamvoogabzribotgk.auznugqmvbgqu
kz rlvzrotgauugrlgbmkaugvlrfvoagqugmvnugvfklxabgsagfvtgbmuzugprl gva
qkl uzpsoguppuibagvagbmkaugqugauucgrlgzufkbugikslbzruagvl gvxuajg‘Bra
klugvl gbmugavfuglvbszugbmvbgzkooagklgmuzgikszau,gvl gqmkunuzgmva
aspprirulbotgiklar uzu gbmugwzuaulbgabvbugkpgbmrlxa,gfrxmbgiuzbvrlot
iklios ugvagbkg.kbmgbmugpsbszugvlvgbmugwvabjgRgmvnugpkzfuzotgauulgful,
.zksxmbgmrbmuzg.tgauvgpzkfgnuztg rabvlbgikslbzrua,gqmkaugovlxsvxuglkb
.urlxgsl uzabkk g.tgsa,gvl gfkzuknuzgbmurzgfrul,gikslbulvliu,gvl gmv.rb,
.urlxgesrbug rppuzrlxgpzkfgksza;gqmrimgkpgsag r glkbgzuwsbugbmufgavnvxua
vl g.zsbua!gQmkg r glkbgvbbzr.sbugrbgbkgabswr rbtgvl gqvlbgkpgikffkl
aulaugbkgauugbmufgfsbu,grxlkzvlbgkpgbmugPzulimgbklxsu,grxlkzvlbgkpgksz
avosbvbrklagvl gizrlxua,gkszgwkzbgvl g.umvnrksz,gpzkfgqmrimgvoogmsfvl
lvbszugfsabg.tgvoogfuvlagbvcugrbagwvbbuzlgvl guhvfwoujgVoogbmvbgauufa
abzvlxugbkgsa,gvl gbmvbgqug kglkbgsl uzabvl ,gqugikl ufljgBmugavfu
bmrlxgmvwwulagvoakgrlgbmugys xfulbagqugfvcugkpg.uvabajgBmutgmvnugaunuzvo
ikl rbrklagorcugbkgksza;gpzkfgbmkaugqugfvt,g.tgikfwvzrakl,g zvqgakfu
iklyuibszu:g.sbg.tgbmkaugesvorbruagbmvbgvzugwvzbrisovzgbkgbmufauonua,
qmvbgclkqgqugqmvbgbkgfvcugkpgbmuf!gBmugmkzaua,g kxa,gkhul,gamuuw,g.rz a,
vl gfkabgkpgbmugvlrfvoagbmvbgornugvfklxabgsa,gclkqgkszgnkriua,gvl 
asppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugxknuzlu g.tgbmuf:gakg r gIzvaasa’agovfwzut,gvl 
ivfugqmulgmugivoou grb;gvagvoakg kgbmuguuoagbmvbgvzugpksl grlgbmugOvcu
Vzubmsav;gvl gRgmvnugauulgaunuzvogwkl agqmuzugbmugpramuagikfugbkguvbgvb
vgiuzbvrlgivoogkpgbmkaugqmkgsaugbkgpuu gbmufj


gggggg“Bmutgunuztgklugmvnuglvfua,gvl gklugvl gvoo
gggAbzvrxmbqvtgvwwuvzgvbgbmurzgkqlgfvabuz’agivoo:”


Qugfvtgys xugkpgbmvbjgQugfvtgvoakgavtgbmvbgbmuguouwmvlbagmvnugakfu
wvzbrirwvbrklgkpgzuorxrklgpkzvafsimgvagvpbuzgaunuzvogqvamrlxagvl 
wszrprivbrklagbmutgvzugk.auznu gbkgorpbgswgbmurzgbzslcgorcugvzfa,
vl ,gprhrlxgbmurzgutuagbkqvz agbmugzrarlxgkpgbmugasl,giklbrlsugoklxgrl
fu rbvbrklgvl giklbufwovbrkl,gvbgiuzbvrlgmkszagkpgbmug vta,gkpgbmurz
kqlgfkbrkl;gqrbmksbgrlabzsibrklgkzgwzuiuwbg.sbg.uivsaugqug kglkbgauugvlt
asimgarxlagrlgkbmuzgvlrfvoa,gqugivllkbgpkzgbmvbgiklios ugbmvbgbmutgvzu
qrbmksbgzuorxrkl,glkzgfvcugvltgys xfulbgkpgqmvbgragikliuvou gpzkfgsajgVa
qug raiuzlgakfubmrlxgrlgbmragvibrklgqmrimgbmugwmrokakwmuzgIouvlbmua
bkkcglkbriugkp,g.uivsaugrbgakfubmrlxgzuauf.ouagkszgkqljgMugavq,gmugavta,
“Vlbagxkgpzkfgbmurzgvlb-mroo,givzztrlxgbmug uv g.k tgkpgvlgvlbgbkqvz a
vlkbmuzgvlb-mroo,gqmuliugaunuzvogkbmuzgvlbagivfugksbgbkgfuubgbmuf,gvagrp
bkgawuvcgqrbmgbmuf;gqmuzu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxg.uulgvgqmrougbkxubmuz,gbmugovab
zubszlu gbkgiklasob,gtksgfvtgaswwkau,gqrbmgbmurzgpuookq-irbrdula,gvl gak
fv ugbqkgkzgbmzuugykszluta,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmug rpprisobtgkpgivwrbsovbrklj
Rlgbmugikliosarkl,gbmugovabgikfuzag.zksxmbgbmugprzabgvgqkzfgksbgkpgbmurz
.szzkq,gvagrbgquzugpkzgbmugzvlakfgkpgbmug upslib,gqmrimgbmugprzabgovr 
swklgbmurzg.vicagvl givzzru gmkfu,gouvnrlxgbmug uv g.k tgbkgbmugkbmuzaj”
gBmragqvagbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgbmvbgIouvlbmuagxvnugkpgbmragbzvlavibrkl,
xrnrlxgsag.tgbmvbgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgbmkaugizuvbszuagbmvbgmvnuglkgnkriu
vzuglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gqrbmksbgrlbuzikszaugvl gfsbsvogikffslrivbrkl,
qmuzukpg‘bragbmzksxmgkszgkqlg upuibgbmvbgqug kglkbgwvzbrirwvbu;gvl gpkz
bmvbgzuvaklgpkkoramotgbvcugswklgsagbkgwvaagkszgiulaszujg.sbgbmutgtub
wzk siugurbmuzguppuibagpvzg.utkl gkszgivwvirbt,gbkgqmrimgqugvzugakgpvz
pzkfg.urlxgv.ougbkgvzzrnug.tgrfrbvbrklgbmvbgqugivllkbgakgfsimgvag.t
rfrbvbrklgikliurnugrbjgFvltgvzugkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrlgbmugxzuvbgvl govab
lvnvogulxvxufulbgbmvbgVlbkltgokabgbkgVsxsabsa,gmragv frzvogxvooutgqva
abvtu grlgbmugfr  ougkpgmuzgikszaug.tgbmugorbbougpramgbmugOvbrlagivoo
_zufkzv_,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugwzkwuzbtgamugmvagkpgabvtrlxgvoogakzbagkp
nuaauoagbkgqmrimgamugpvabulagmuzauopjgVl gbmugUfwuzkzgIvorxsov,gavrorlx
qrbmgvgxzuvbglvntgswklgbmugikvabgkpgZkfvlrv,gmragxvooutgklotgqva
as  ulotgabvtu g.tgbmugavfugpram,gqmrim,gmugivsau gbkg.ugbvcul,gpvabulu 
vagrbgqvagbkgbmugcuuogkpgmragamrw,gnuztgvlxztgbmvbgasimgvgorbbougvlrfvo
ikso gzuarabg.kbmgbmugauv,gbmugqrl ,gvl gbmugpkziugkpgvoogmragkvza,g.t
.urlxgklotgpvabulu g.tgbmug.uvcgbkgmragxvooutg(pkzgrbgragvgamuoo-pram);
vl gqvagfkzuknuz,glkbgqrbmksbgxzuvbgzuvakl,gvabklramu gbmvb,g.urlx
.zksxmbgbkgmrfgrlgbmugnuaauo,grbgmv glkgoklxuzgbmugabzulxbmgrbgmv 
qrbmksbjgVgirbrdulgkpgItdrisagpkzfuzotgviesrzu gbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgvgxkk 
fvbmufvbrirvlgpkzgmvnrlxgouvzlbgbmugesvorbtgkpgbmugmu xu-mkx:gmugmvagmra
.szzkqgkwulgrlg rnuzagwoviua,gvl gbkgaunuzvogqrl a,gvl ,gpkzuauurlxgbmu
qrl gbmvbgragbkgikfu,gabkwagbmugmkougklgbmvbgar u,gqmrimgbmvbgirbrdul
k.auznrlx,gxvnugbmugirbtgiuzbvrlgwzu ribrklagkpgbmugqrl gqmrimgqva
wzuaulbotgbkg.okqjgBmugivféoéklgbvcuagmuzgikokszgpzkfgbmugwoviugswkl
qmrimgamugragovr ;g.sbgbmugwkotwsagxrnuagmrfauopgqmvbgikokszgmugwouvaua,
viikz rlxgbkgkiivarkl,gurbmuzgbkgikliuvogmrfauopgpzkfgqmvbgmugpuvza,gkz
pzkfgqmvbgmugmvagvg uarxlgbkgaurdu:grlgbmugivféoéklg‘bragvgwvaarnu,g.sb
rlgbmugwkotwsag‘bragvlgvibrnu,gimvlxujgQugmvnugakfugimvlxuagkp
ikoksz,gvagrlgpuvz,gvlxuz,gamvfu,gvl gkbmuzgwvaarkla,gbmvbgvobuzgksz
ikfwouhrkla;g.sbgrbgrag.tgbmuguppuibgkpgasppuzrlx,gvagqrbmgbmugivféoéklj
Rbgragrlgbmugwkquzgkpgbmugyvsl riu,grl uu ,gbkgfvcugsagbszlgtuookq,
.sbg‘braglkbgrlgbmugwkquzgkpgkszgkqlgqroojgLkqgbmuauguppuibagbmvbgqu
 raiknuzgrlgkbmuzgvlrfvoa,gfsimgxzuvbuzgbmvlgksza,gauufgbkgrfwotgakfu
fkzuguhiuooulbgpvisobtgrlgbmufgslclkqlgbkgsa;gvag‘bragbkg.ugwzuasfu 
bmuzugvzugaunuzvogkbmuzgesvorbruagvl gv.rorbruagkpgbmurza,gkpgqmrimglk
vwwuvzvliuagmvnugvzzrnu gvbgsaj

Vfklxabgvoogbmugwzu ribrklagkpguo uzgbrfua,gbmugfkabgvlirulbgvl gbmu
fkabgiuzbvrlgquzugbmkaugbvculgpzkfgbmugporxmbgkpg.rz a;gqugmvnuglkbmrlx
iuzbvrlgorcugrb,glkzgvltgbmrlxgbkg.ugakgfsimgv frzu jgBmvbgzsougvl 
kz uzgkpgbmugfknrlxgkpgbmugqrlx,gqmuliugbmutg uzrnu gbmugiklauesuliuagkp
psbszugbmrlxa,gfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugxsr u g.tgakfuguhiuooulbgfuvlagbk
akglk.ougvlgkwuzvbrkl:gpkzgbkgvbbzr.sbugbmragxzuvbguppuibgbkgvltglvbszvo
 rawkarbrkl,gqrbmksbgbmugrlbuoorxuliu,giklaulb,gvl gfu rbvbrklgkpgmrfg.t
qmkfgrbgragwzk siu ,gragvlgkwrlrklgunr ulbotgpvoaujgBmvbgrbgragak,gbmu
izvfw-pramgmvagbmragesvorbt,glkbgklotgbkg.ulsf.gvoogbmugfuf.uzagbmvb
bksimgmuz,g.sbgunulgbmzksxmgbmuglubagbzvlafrbgvgmuvntg soluaagrlbkgbmu
mvl agkpgbmkaugbmvbgfknugvl gmvl ougbmuf;glvt,grbgragpszbmuzgavr gbmvb
rpgklugwkszgqvbuzgswklgmuz,gmugqroogpuuogbmraglsf.luaagfkslbgswgbmu
qvbuzgbkgbmugmvl ,gvl gabswuptgbmugpuuorlxgbmzksxmgbmugqvbuzjgBmragragv
frzvisoksagpkziu;g.sbg‘braglkbgsauouaagbkgbmugizvfw-pram;gamugclkqagrb,
vl gfvcuagsaugkl’b;gpkz,gbkgivbimgbmugwzutgamug uarzua,gamugqroog.szt
muzauopgrlgbmugfs ,gbmvbgkbmuzgpramuagaqrffrlxgknuzgmuz,gabzsicgvl 
.ulsf.u gqrbmgbmragiko luaagkpgmuza,gfvtgpvoogrlbkgmuzgwkquzjgIzvlua,
aqvookqa,gvl gkbmuzg.rz agkpgwvaavxu,g.tgamrpbrlxgbmurzgv.k ugviikz rlx
bkgbmugauvakla,gaspprirulbotgfvlrpuabgbmugclkqou xugbmutgmvnugkpgbmurz
 rnrlrlxgpvisobt,gvl gwsbgrbgrlgsaujgMslbafulgvaaszugsagbmvbgbkgisoogksb
pzkfgvfklxabgvgxzuvbgfvltgwswwruagbmvbgqmrimgksxmbgbkg.ugwzuauznu gva
bmug.uab,gbmug.uabgqvtgragbkgzupuzgbmugimkriugbkgbmugfkbmuz;gvagbmsa,
bvcugbmufgvl givzztgbmufgksbgkpgbmugculluo,gvl gbmugprzabgamug.zrlxa
.vicgqroogiuzbvrlotg.ugbmug.uab;gkzgrpgtksgfvcugvgamkqgvagrpgtksgqkso 
ulnrzklgbmugculluogqrbmgprzu,gbmvbgklugamugprzabgivbimuagswgbkgavnujg.t
qmrimgrbgvwwuvzagbmutgmvnugvgakzbgkpgwzkxlkabrigqmrimgqugmvnuglkb;gkz
bmvbgbmutgmvnugakfugnrzbsugrlgys xrlxgkpgbmurzgqmuowagkbmuzgvl gfkzu
iuzbvrlgbmvlgqugmvnuj

Bmugfvlluzgkpgikfrlxgrlbkgbmugqkzo ,gkpgulxul uzrlx,glkszramrlx,gvibrlx,
fknrlx,gornrlxgvl g trlxgkpg.uvaba,gragakgluvzgbkgkszagbmvbgqmvbunuzgqu
zubzulimgpzkfgbmurzgfknrlxgivsaua,gvl gv  gbkgkszgkqlgikl rbrklgv.knu
bmurza,givlg.tglkgfuvlagwzkiuu gpzkfgvltgfu rbvbrklgkpgkszgkqlgzuvaklj
Pkzgbmugzuxrfulgkpgkszgmuvobm,gwmtarirvlagwzkwkaugbkgsagbmuguhvfwougkp
bmug.uvaba’gfvlluzagvl gqvtgkpgornrlx;gpkzgbmragavtrlxg(ksbgkpgWosbvzim)
mvagrlgvoogbrfuag.uulgrlgbmugfksbmgkpgbmuaugwukwou:g“Cuuwgqvzfgbmtgpuub
vl gmuv ,gvagbkgbmugzuab,gornugorcugvg.uvabj”

Bmugimrupgkpgvooglvbszvogvibrklagragxuluzvbrkl;gqugmvnugvgiuzbvrl
 rawkarbrklgkpgfuf.uzagqmrimgragbmugfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgsagbkgbmvbgul ;
lunuzbmuouaa,gqugvzugkz uzu g.tgOsizubrsagbkgiklpkzfgbkgbmugxuabszugvl 
wkabszugkpgbmug.zsbuagvagbmugfkabguppuibsvo:--


ggggggFkzugpuzvzsf,
gggEsv zswu sfesugfvxragzrbs,gwouzsfesugwsbvlbsz
gggIklirwuzugshkzua:
gggEsrvgarigokivgasfuzugwkaaslb,
gggWuibkzr.sagwkarbra,gas.ovbragaufrlvgosf.ra;


vl gbmugavfugvsbmkzrbtgikl ufla,gvagmszbpso,gbmkaugrl raizuubgvl 
rfws ulbgfkbrklagqmrimgbmugqkfulgmvnugv  u gkpgbmurzgkqlgrlnulbrkl,gbk
qmkfgrbgwzkwkauagbmugfkzugbufwuzvbugvl gfk uabgwvbbuzlgvl gwzvibriugkp
bmug.uvabagkpgbmurzgkqlgauh:--


ggggggLvfgfsoruzgwzkmr.ubgaugiklirwuzugvbesugzéwsxlâb,
gggIoslr.sagrwavgnrzrgNuluzufgargoæbvgzubzvibub,
gggVbesuguhkaavbkgirubgkflrgwuibkzugposibsvj
gggUyrirbgulrfgasoirgzuibvgzuxrklugnrvesu
gggNkfuzuf,gvbesugokiragvnuzbrbgaufrlragribsfj


Rpgrbg.ugysabriugbkgzul uzgbkgunuztgklugbmurzg su,gbmug.uvabagbmvb
auznu,goknu,gvl g upul gbmurzg.ulupvibkza,gvl gbmvbgwszasugvl gpvoogswkl
abzvlxuzagvl gbmkaugqmkgkppul gbmuf,g kgrlgbmragzuwzuaulbgvgiuzbvrlgvrz
kpgkszgysabriu;gvagvoakgrlgk.auznrlxgvgnuztguesrbv.ouguesvorbtgrlgbmu
 rabzr.sbrklgkpgqmvbgbmutgmvnugbkgbmurzgtkslxjgVl gvagbkgpzrul amrw,
bmutgmvnugrbgqrbmksbgikfwvzraklgfkzugornuotgvl giklabvlbgbmvlgfulgmvnuj
CrlxgOtarfvimsa’ag kx,gMtzivlsa,gfvabuzg.urlxg uv ,govtgklgmrag.u ,
k.abrlvbuotgzupsarlxgurbmuzgbkguvbgkzg zrlc;gvl ,gbmug vtgbmvbgmra
.k tgqvag.szlb,gmugbkkcgvgzslgvl gouvwu grlbkgbmugprzu,gqmuzugmugqva
iklasfu ,gVagvoakg r gbmug kxgkpgklugWtzzmsa,gpkzgmugqkso glkbgabrzgpzkf
kppgmragfvabuz’ag.u gpzkfgbmugbrfugmug ru ;gvl gqmulgbmutgivzzru gmrf
vqvtgoubgmrfauopg.ugivzzru gqrbmgmrf,gvl gvbgovabgouvwu grlbkgbmugwrou
qmuzugbmutg.szlbgmragfvabuz’ag.k tjgBmuzugvzugrliorlvbrklagkpgvppuibrkl
qmrimgakfubrfuagawzrlxgrlgsa,gqrbmksbgbmugiklasobvbrklgkpgzuvakl;gvl g.t
vgpkzbsrbksagbufuzrbt,gqmrimgkbmuzagivoogatfwvbmt;gkpgqmrimg.uvaba
vzugvagivwv.ougvagqujgQugauugmkzauagbvcugasimgvlgviesvrlbvliugqrbm
klugvlkbmuzgbmvbgqugmvnugfsimgv kgbkgfvcugbmufguvbgkzgbzvnuo,gqmul
auwvzvbu ;gqugk.auznugbmufgbkgpvlitgvgwvzbrisovzgikokszgrlgbmkaugkp
bmurzgkqlgcrl ,gvl ,gqmuzugbmutgfuubgrb,gzslgbkgrbgqrbmgxzuvbgyktgvl 
 ufklabzvbrklagkpgxkk gqroo,gvl gmvnugvg raorcugvl gmvbzu gpkzgakfu
kbmuzgikokszjgVlrfvoagmvnugimkriu,gvagquoogvagqu,grlgbmurzgvfksza,gvl 
isoogksbgbmurzgfrabzuaaua;glurbmuzgvzugbmutguhufwbgpzkfgkszgyuvoksarua
vl grfwoviv.ougfvoriuj

 uarzuagvzugurbmuzglvbszvogvl gluiuaavzt,gvagbkguvbgvl g zrlc;gkz
lvbszvogvl glkbgluiuaavzt,gvagbmugiksworlxgqrbmgpufvoua;gkzglurbmuz
lvbszvoglkzgluiuaavzt;gkpgqmrimgovabgakzbgvzugvofkabgvoogbmug uarzuagkp
ful;gbmutgvzugvoogaswuzposksagvl gvzbrprirvojgPkzg‘bragfvznuooksagmkq
orbbougqroogavbraptglvbszu,gmkqgorbbougamugmvagoupbgsagbkg uarzu;gksz
zvxksbagvl gcricamvqagvzuglkbgkpgmuzgkz uzrlxjgBmugAbkriagavtgbmvbgvgfvl
fvtgornugklgvlgkornugvg vtjgBmug uorivitgkpgkszgqrluagraglkgwvzbgkpgmuz
rlabzsibrkl,glkzgbmugzuprlufulbagqugrlbzk siugrlbkgbmugrl soxuliugkpgksz
vfkzksagvwwubrbua:--


ggggggLuesugrorv
gggFvxlkgwzkxlvbsfg uwkairbgiklasougisllsfj

gggggg“Lvbszu,grlgmuzgwszasrbgkpgoknu,g raiovrfa
gggBmugwzr ugkpgbrboua,gvl gbmugwkfwgkpglvfuaj”


Bmuaugrzzuxsovzg uarzua,gbmvbgbmugrxlkzvliugkpgxkk gvl gvgpvoaugkwrlrkl
mvnugrlpsau grlbkgsa,gvzugakgfvltgbmvbgbmutgvofkabguhios ugvoogbmu
lvbszvo;gysabgvagrpgbmuzugquzugakgxzuvbgvglsf.uzgkpgabzvlxuzagrlgbmu
irbtgvagbkgbmzsabgksbgbmuglvbszvogrlmv.rbvlba,gkz,gsaszwrlxgswklgbmurz
vlirulbgzrxmbagvl gwzrnrouxua,gamkso guhbrlxsramgbmurzgvsbmkzrbtgvl 
rlbzk siugluqgovqagvl gisabkfagkpgbmurzgkqljgVlrfvoagvzugfsimgfkzu
zuxsovzgbmvlgqu,gvl gcuuwgbmufauonuagqrbmgxzuvbuzgfk uzvbrklgqrbmrlgbmu
orfrbaglvbszugmvagwzuaizr.u ;g.sbgtubglkbgakguhvibotgbmvbgbmutgmvnuglkb
akfubrfuagvlgvlvokxtgqrbmgkszg u.vsimuajgVl gvagbmuzugmvnug.uulgpszrksa
 uarzuagbmvbgmvnugrfwuoou gfulgbkgbmugoknugkpg.uvaba,gakgbmuzugmvnug.uul
uhvfwouagkpg.uvabagbmvbgmvnugpvooulgrlgoknugqrbmgsa,gvl g.uulgaurdu 
qrbmgfklabzksagvppuibrklg.ubqrhbgcrl a;gqrbluaagbmuguouwmvlbgqmkgqva
zrnvogbkgVzrabkwmvluagbmugxzvffvzrvlgrlgbmugoknugkpgvgtkslxgmuz.-qulim
rlgbmugirbtgkpgVouhvl zrv,gqmkgqvaglkbmrlxg.umrl gmrfgrlgvoogbmugkppriua
kpgvgnuztgwvaarklvbugasrbkz;gpkzgxkrlxgbmzksxmgbmugfvzcubgqmuzugbmut
ako gpzsrb,gmugqkso gbvcugakfugrlgmragbzslcgvl givzztgbmufgbkgmuzj
Mugqkso gvagfsimgvagwkaar.ougcuuwgmuzgvoqvtagrlgmragarxmb,gvl gqkso 
akfubrfuagwsbgmragbzslcgsl uzgmuzgmvl cuzimrupgrlbkgmuzg.kakf,gbkgpuuo
muzg.zuvabajgBmutgbuoogvoakgkpgvg zvxklgrlgoknugqrbmgvgxrzo,gvl gkpgv
xkkaugulvfkszu gkpgvgimro ;gkpgvgzvfgbmvbgqvagasrbkzgbkgbmugfrlabzuoouaa
Xovsirv,grlgbmugbkqlgkpgVakwsa;gvl gqugauuglkbgslpzuesulbotg.v.kkla
pszrksaotgrlgoknugqrbmgqkfuljgQugauugvoakgiuzbvrlgfvougvlrfvoagbmvb
vzugpkl gkpgbmugfvouagkpgbmurzgkqlgcrl jgKwwrvlgvl gkbmuzagxrnugsagakfu
uhvfwouagkpgbmugzunuzuliugbmvbg.uvabagmvnugbkgbmurzgcrl zu grlgbmurz
ikwsovbrkla;g.sbguhwuzruliugkpbulgamkqagsagbmugiklbzvzt:--


ggggggLuigmv.ubszgbszwugysnuliæ
gggPuzzugwvbzufgbuzxk;gprbgueskgasvgprorvgiklysh;
gggEsvaesugizuvnrb,grlrbgwuis uagivwuz;grwavesugisysa
gggAufrlugikliuwbvguab,guhgrookgiklirwrbgvouaj

gggggg“Bmugmurpuzgbmrlcagrbglkbgvgamvfugbkgbvcu
gggMuzgosabtgarzugswklgmuzgqroorlxg.vic:
gggBmugmkzaugmrag vsxmbuzgouvwa,gxkvbagaizswouglkb
gggB’grlizuvaugbmugmuz g.tgbmkaugbmutgmvnug.uxkb;
gggVl g.rz agkpgvoogakzbag kgrlgikffklgornu,
gggVl g.tgbmugauu gbmutgmvnugikliurnu gikliurnuj”


Vl gpkzgas.bougisllrlx,givlgbmuzug.ugvgfkzugwzuxlvlbguhvfwougbmvlgrlgbmu
wmrokakwmuzgBmvoua’agfsou?gqmk,gpkz rlxgvgzrnuz,gov ulgqrbmgavob,gvl 
.tgviir ulbgabsf.orlxgbmuzu,gakgbmvbgbmugavicagmugivzzru gquzugvoogqub,
wuziurnrlxgbmvbg.tgbmugfuobrlxgkpgbmugavobgmrag.sz ulgqvagakfubmrlx
orxmbuz,gmuglunuzgpvrou ,gakgkpbgvagmugivfugbkgvltgzrnuz,gbkgorug kql
qrbmgmragokv ;gbroogmragfvabuz,g raiknuzrlxgbmugclvnuzt,gkz uzu gbmvbgmu
amkso g.ugov ulgqrbmgqkk ?gqmuzurl,gprl rlxgmrfauopgfrabvcul,gmugiuvau 
bkgwzvibraugbmvbg unriujgBmuzugvzugaunuzvogbmvbgnuztgnrnr otgzuwzuaulb
bmugbzsugrfvxugkpgkszgvnvzriu;gpkzgqugauugbmufgrlprlrbuotgakorirbsagbk
xubgvoogbmutgivl,gvl gmr ugrbgqrbmgbmvbguhiuu rlxgxzuvbgivzu,gbmksxm
bmutglunuzgfvcugvltgsaugkpgrbgvbgvoojgVagbkgbmzrpb,gbmutgaszwvaagsaglkb
klotgrlgbmugpkzuarxmbgvl govtrlxgsw,gvl gavnrlxgpkzgbmugbrfugbkgikfu,
.sbgbmutgmvnu,gfkzuknuz,gvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmugairuliugluiuaavztgbmuzubkj
Bmugvlbag.zrlxgv.zkv grlbkgbmugaslgbmurzgxzvrlgvl gauu gbkgvrz,gzupzuam
vl g ztgbmufgqmulgbmutgwuziurnugbmufgbkgfkso gvl gxzkqgfsabt,gouabgbmut
amkso g uivtgvl gzkbjg.sbgbmugivsbrklgvl gwzunulbrklgbmutgsaugrlgxlvqrlx
bmurzgxzvrlagkpgqmuvbgaszwvaagvoogrfvxrlvbrklgkpgmsfvlgwzs uliu;gpkzg.t
zuvaklgbmvbgbmugqmuvbg kuaglkbgvoqvtagiklbrlsugaksl gvl g zt,g.sbgxzkqa
akpb,gbmvqagvl g raakonuagvagrpgrbgquzugabuuwu grlgfroc,gqmroabgmvabrlx
bkgxuzfrlvbrkl;gpkzgpuvzgouabgrbgamkso gamkkbgvl gokaugbmuglvbszugvl 
wzkwuzbtgkpgvgfvxvdrlugpkzgbmurzgas.arabuliu,gbmutglr..ougkppgbmugul g.t
qmrimgrbgamkso gamkkbgvl gawzksbj

Vagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagqvz,gqmrimgragbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabgfvxlrpriulbgkp
msfvlgvibrkla,gRgqkso gnuztgpvrlgclkqgqmubmuzgqugqkso gsaugrbgpkzgvl
vzxsfulbgkpgakfugwzuzkxvbrnugkz,gklgiklbzvzt,gpkzgvgbuabrfkltgkpgksz
quvcluaagvl grfwuzpuibrkl;gva,grlgbzsbm,gbmugairuliugkpgsl krlxgvl 
croorlxgklugvlkbmuz,gvl gkpgzsrlrlxgvl g uabzktrlxgkszgkqlgcrl ,gmva
lkbmrlxgrlgrbgakgbufwbrlxgvagbkgfvcugrbg.ugiknubu g.tg.uvabagqmkgmvnugrb
lkbj


ggggggEsvl kgouklrgPkzbrkzguzrwsrbgnrbvfgouk?geskglufkzugslesvf
gggUhwrzvnrbgvwuzgfvykzrag ulbr.sagvwzr?

gggggg“Lkgorklg zrlcagvgquvcuzgorkl’agxkzu,
gggLkg.kvzguhwrzuag.uluvbmgvgabzklxuzg.kvzj”


Tubgvzugbmutglkbgslrnuzavootguhufwb;gqrbluaagbmugpszrksagulikslbuzagkp
.uua,gvl gbmugulbuzwzrauagkpgbmugwzrliuagkpgbmugiklbzvztgvzfrua:--


ggggggAæwug sk.sagZuxr.sagrliuaarbgfvxlkg raikz rvgfkbs;
gggIklbrlskesugvlrfkagnsoxrgubgbzuwr vlbrvg.uook
gggXkz vgoriubgoklxégwzæairaiuzuj

gggggg“.sbgrpgiklbul rlxgpvibrklagvzfgbmugmrnu,
gggQmulgzrnvogcrlxagrlg ks.bpsog.vbbougabzrnu,
gggBsfsobsksagizkq agbmug zuv gunulbgwzuwvzu,
gggVl gwvowrbvbrlxgmuvzbagbmvbg.uvbgbkgqvzj”


Rglunuzgzuv gbmrag rnrlug uaizrwbrklg.sbgbmvb,gfubmrlca,gRgbmuzugauu
msfvlgpkootgvl gnvlrbtgzuwzuaulbu grlgbmurzgbzsugvl gornuotgikokszajgPkz
bmuaugqvzorcugfknufulba,gbmvbgakgzvnramgsagqrbmgbmurzgvabksl rlxglkrau
vl gmkzzkz,gbmragzvbbougkpgxsla,g zsfa,gvl gizrua,


ggggggPsoxszgr.rgv gikuosfgaugbkoorb,gbkbvesugirzisf
gggÆzugzulr uairbgbuoosa,gas.buzesugnrzûfgnr
gggUhirbszgwu r.sagaklrbsa,giovfkzuesugfklbua
gggRibrgzuyuibvlbgnkiuagv gar uzvgfsl r;

gggggg“Qmulg.szlram’ gvzfagbkgmuvnulg vzbgbmurzgzvta,
gggVl gfvltgvgabuuotg.uvfgr’gbm’gaslorxmbgwovta,
gggQmulgbzvfwou gragbmuguvzbmg.tgmkzaugvl gfvl,
gggSlbrogbmugnuztgiulbzugxzkvlagvxvrl,
gggVl gbmvbgbmugzkica,gabzsicg.tgbmugnvzrksagizrua,
gggZunuz.uzvbugbmugaksl gslbkgbmugacrua;”


rlgbmug zuv psoguf.vbborlxgkpgakgfvltgbmksavl agkpgvzfu gful,gvl gak
xzuvbgpszt,gvz ksz,gvl gikszvxu,g‘bragwouvavlbgbkgiklar uzg.tgqmvbgr ou
kiivarklagbmutgvzuguhirbu ,gvl g.tgmkqgorxmbgkluagvwwuvau :--


ggggggWvzr ragwzkwbuzglvzzvbszgvfkzuf
gggXzuiræg.vz.vzræg rzkgikooravg suook:

gggggg“KpgqvlbklgWvzragbmugroorirbgoknu
ggg r gXzuuiugvl gBzktgbkgbulgtuvza’gqvzpvzugfknu:”


voogVarvgqvagzsrlu gvl g uabzktu gpkzgbmugosabgkpgWvzra;gbmugulntgkp
klugarlxougfvl,gvg uawrbu,gvgwouvaszu,gvg kfuabrigyuvoksat,givsauagbmvb
ksxmbglkbgbkgaubgbqkgktabuz-qulimuag.tgbmuguvza,gragbmugfknuzgkpgvoo
bmragfrxmbtg.saboujgAmvoogqug.uorunugbmkaugnuztgfulgqmkgvzugbmufauonua
bmugwzrlirwvogvsbmkzagkpgbmuaugfraimrupa?gOubgsagbmulgmuvzgbmugxzuvbuab,
bmugfkabgwkquzpso,gbmugfkabgnribkzrksagufwuzkzgbmvbgunuzgqva,gbszlrlx
rlbkgvgyuab,gnuztgwouvavlbotgvl grlxulrksaot,gaunuzvog.vbbouagpksxmb
.kbmg.tgauvgvl govl ,gbmug.okk gvl gornuagkpgprnugmsl zu gbmksavl gful
bmvbgpkookqu gmragpkzbslu,gvl gbmugabzulxbmgvl gzrimuagkpgbqkgwvzbagkp
bmugqkzo g zvrlu gpkzgbmuguhwulaugkpgmraguhwu rbrkla:--


ggggggEsk gpsbsrbgXovwmtzvlgVlbklrsa,gmvligfrmrgwkulvf
gggPsonrvgiklabrbsrb,gaugeskelugsbrgpsbsvfj
gggPsonrvfguxkgsbgpsbsvf!gesr ,gargfugFvlrsagkzub
gggWk riuf,gpvirvf?gLklgwsbk,gargavwrvfj
gggVsbgpsbsu,gvsbgwsxlufsa,gvrb
gggEsr ,gargfrmrgnrbrr
gggImvzrkzguabgrwaâgfulbsov?gArxlvgivlvlbj

ggggggEsr?gfkr,gesugyugauznugPsonru!
gggAsppob-rogesuoougulgvrbgulnru?
gggVgiugikfwbu,gklgnuzzvrbgaugzubrzuzgnklgfkr
gggFroougéwksauagfvogavbrapvrbuaj
gggVrfu-fkr,gfug rbguoou,gksgikf.vbbklajgFvrageskr?
gggUoouguabg.rulgovr u!gVookla,gaklluagbzkfwubbuaj

ggggggg‘IvsaugVlbmkltgragprzu gqrbmgXovwmrzu’agimvzfa
gggPvrlgqkso gmragPsonrvgbufwbgfugbkgmuzgvzfaj
gggRpgVlbmkltg.ugpvoau,gqmvbgbmul?gfsabgR
ggg.ugaovnugbkgPsonrv’agosabpsogbtzvllt?
gggBmulgqkso gvgbmksavl gqvlbkl,gqvawramgqrnua,


(RgsaugftgOvbrlgqrbmgbmugor.uzbtgkpgiklairuliugtksgvzugwouvau gbkgvookq
fuj)gLkqgbmragxzuvbg.k t,gqrbmgakgfvltgpzklba,gvl gakgfvltgfkbrkla,
qmrimgauufagbkgbmzuvbulgmuvnulgvl guvzbm:--


ggggggEsvfgfsobrgOt.rikgnkonslbszgfvzfkzugposibsa,
gggAænsags.rgKzrklgmr.ufragikl rbszgsl ra,
gggNuogesvfgakokglknkg ulaægbkzzulbszgVzrabæ,
gggVsbgMuzfrgivfwk,gvsbgOtirægpovnulbr.sagvznra;
gggAisbvgaklvlb,gwsoasesugwu sfgbzufrbguhirbvgbuoosa:

gggggg“Lkbgbmricuzg.rookqag.uvbgbmugOt.rvlgfvrl,
gggQmulgwvougKzrklgarbagrlgqrlbztgzvrl;
gggLkzgbmricuzgmvznuabagklgzrimgMuzfsagzrau,
gggKzgOtirvlgpruo a,gqmulgWmk.sag.szlagbmugacrua,
gggBmvlgabvl gbmuaugbzkkwa:gbmurzg.sicouzagzrlxgvzksl ;
gggBmurzgbzvfworlxgbszlagbmugbszpgvl gamvcuagbmugakor gxzksl :”


bmragpszrksagfklabuz,gqrbmgakgfvltgmuv agvl gvzfa,gragtubgfvl--puu.ou,
ivovfrbksa,gvl gfrauzv.ougfvl!g‘Brag.sbgvlgvlb-mroog rabsz.u gvl 
wzknkcu :--


gggRbglrxzsfgivfwragvxful:

ggg“Bmug.ovicgbzkkwgfvzimuagbkgbmugpruo :”


vgiklbzvztg.ovab,gbmugizkvcrlxgkpgvgporxmbgkpgzvnula,gbmugabsf.ougkp
vgmkzau,gbmugivasvogwvaavxugkpgvlguvxou,gvg zuvf,gvgnkriu,gvgarxl,gv
fkzlrlxgfrab,gvzugvltgklugkpgbmufgaspprirulbgbkg.uvbg kqlgvl gknuzbszl
mrfjg vzbg.sbgvgasl.uvfgrlgmragpviu,gmugragfuobu gvl gnvlramu jg.okq
.sbgvgorbboug sabgrlgmragutua,gvagkszgwkubgavtagkpgbmug.uua,gvl gvoogksz
ularxlagvl gouxrkla,gqrbmgbmugxzuvbgWkfwutgmrfauopgvbgbmugmuv gkpgbmuf,
vzugzksbu gvl gizsamu gbkgwruiua;gpkzgrbgqvagmu,gvagRgbvcugrb,gbmvb
Auzbkzrksag.uvbgrlgAwvrlgqrbmgbmkaugprlugvzfa,gqmrimgvoakgauznu gUsfulua
vxvrlabgVlbrxklsa,gvl gAszulvgvxvrlabgIzvaasa:--


gggggg“Aqvzfgbkgftg.u gorcug.uuagrlbkgbmurzgmrnuaj
ggg uiovzugpkzgoknu,gkzgqvz,gamugavr ;gvl gpzkql’ :
gggLkgoknugR’oogxzvlb:gbkgvzfag.r gbzsfwubagaksl j”


ggggggMrgfkbsagvlrfkzsf,gvbesugmkigiuzbvfrlvgbvlbv,
gggWsonuzraguhrxsrgyvibsgikfwzuaavgesruaiulbj

gggggg“Tubgvbgbmtgqroogbmuaug zuv psogiklporibagiuvau,
gggBmzkqg.sbgvgorbboug sabgvl gvoogragwuviuj”


Oubgsag.sbgaorwgkszgporuagvpbuzgbmuf,gvl gbmutgqroogmvnugbmugpkziugvl 
ikszvxugbkg upuvbgbmufjgKpgpzuamgfufkzt,gbmugWkzbsxsuaugmvnrlxg.uaruxu 
bmugirbtgkpgBvfot,grlgbmugbuzzrbkztgkpgHrvbrlu,gbmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmu
woviug.zksxmbgvgxzuvbgfvltgmrnua,gkpgqmrimgvzugxzuvbgwoulbtgrlgbmvb
woviu,gswklgbmugqvoo;gvl gqrbmgprzug zknugbmug.uuagakgpszrksaotgswklgbmu
uluftgbmvbgbmutgxvnugknuzgbmugulbuzwzrau,glkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgabvl gbmurz
vbbvicagvl gul szugbmurzgabrlxa;gvl gakgbmugirbrdula,g.tgbmragluqgakzb
kpgzuorup,gxvrlu gor.uzbtgvl gbmugnribkztgqrbmgakgqkl uzpsogvgpkzbslu,
bmvbgvbgbmugzubszlgkpgbmurzg upul uzagpzkfgbmug.vbbougbmutgpksl gbmut
mv glkbgokabgakgfsimgvagklujgBmugaksoagkpgufwuzkzagvl gik..ouzagvzugivab
rlgbmugavfugfkso ;gbmugqurxmbgvl grfwkzbvliugkpgbmugvibrklagkpgwzrliua
iklar uzu ,gqugwuzasv ugkszauonuagbmvbgbmutgfsabg.ugwzk siu g.tgakfugva
qurxmbtgvl grfwkzbvlbgivsaua;g.sbgqugvzug uiurnu ;gpkzgbmutgvzugwsamu 
kl,gvl gwsoou g.vicgrlgbmurzgfkbrkla,g.tgbmugavfugawzrlxagbmvbgqugvzu
rlgkszgorbbougsl uzbvcrlxajgBmugavfugzuvaklgbmvbgfvcuagsagqzvlxougqrbm
vglurxm.kszgivsauagvgqvzg.ubqrhbgwzrliua;gbmugavfugzuvaklgbmvbgfvcuagsa
qmrwgvgovicut,gpvoorlxgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgvgcrlxgfvcuagmrfgzsrlgvgqmkou
wzknrliujgBmutgvzugvagorxmbotgfknu gvagqu,g.sbgbmutgvzugv.ougbkg kgfkzuj
Rlgvgxlvbgvl gvlguouwmvlbgbmugwvaarklgragbmugavfuj

Vagbkgpr uorbt,gbmuzugraglkgvlrfvogrlgbmugqkzo gakgbzuvimuzksagvagfvlj
Kszgmrabkzruagmvnugzuikz u gbmugnrkoulbgwszasrbagbmvbg kxagmvnugfv u
vpbuzgbmugfsz uzuzagkpgbmurzgfvabuzajgCrlxgWtzzmsagk.auznrlxgvg kxgbmvb
qvbimu gvg uv gfvl’ag.k t,gvl gsl uzabvl rlxgbmvbgmugmv gpkzgbmzuu
 vtagbkxubmuzgwuzpkzfu gbmvbgkppriu,gikffvl u gbmvbgbmug.k tgamkso g.u
.szru ,gvl gbkkcgbmug kxgvoklxgqrbmgmrfjgKlug vt,gvagmugqvagvbgvgxuluzvo
fsabuzgkpgmragvzft,gbmrag kx,gauurlxgmragfvabuz’agfsz uzuza,gqrbmgxzuvb
.vzcrlxgvl guhbzufugarxlagkpgvlxuzgpouqgswklgbmuf,gvl g.tgbmragprzab
viisavbrklgvqvculu gbmugzunulxugkpgbmragfsz uz,gqmrimgqvagakklgvpbuz
wuzpuibu g.tgpkzfgkpgysabriujgVagfsimgqvag klug.tgbmug kxgkpgbmugqrau
Muark ,gqmkgiklnribu gbmugaklagkpgXvlribkzgkpgLvswvibsagkpgbmugfsz uz
ikffrbbu gklgbmugwuzaklgkpgmragfvabuzjgVlkbmuzg kxg.urlxgbkgxsvz gv
bufwougvbgVbmula,gmvnrlxgawru gvgavizrouxrksagbmrupgivzztrlxgvqvt
bmugprluabgyuquoa,gpuoogbkg.vzcrlxgvbgmrfgqrbmgvoogmragpkziu,g.sbgbmu
qvz uzaglkbgvqvcrlxgvbgbmuglkrau,gmugpkookqu gmrf,gvl g vtg.urlxg.zkcu,
cuwbgkppgvbgvgorbboug rabvliu,gqrbmksbgokarlxgarxmbgkpgmrf;grpgmu
kppuzu gmrfgvltgbmrlxgbkguvbgmugqkso glkbgbvcugrb,g.sbgqkso gqvxgmra
bvrogvbgvoogbmugwvaaulxuzagmugfub,gvl gbkkcgqmvbunuzgbmutgxvnugmrf;gvl 
rpgbmugbmrupgovr g kqlgbkgaouuw,gmugorcuqraugabvtu gswklgbmugavfugwoviuj
Bmugluqagkpgbmrag kxg.urlxgikfugbkgbmugqvz uzagkpgbmugbufwougbmutgwsb
bmufauonuagswklgbmugwszasrb,grlesrzrlxgkpgbmugikokszgkpgbmug kx,gvl 
vbgovabgpksl gmrfgrlgbmugirbtgkpgIzkftkl,gvl gbmugbmrupgvoak,gqmkfgbmut
.zksxmbg.vicgbkgVbmula,gqmuzugmugxkbgmragzuqvz ;gvl gbmugys xua,grl
iklar uzvbrklgkpgbmragxkk gkppriu,gkz uzu gvgiuzbvrlgfuvaszugkpgikzl
pkzgbmug kx’ag vrotgasabulvliu,gvbgbmugws.origimvzxu,gvl gbmugwzruabagbk
bvcugivzugkpgrbjgWosbvzimg uornuzagbmragabkztgpkzgvgiuzbvrlgbzsbm,gvl 
bmvbgrbgmvwwulu grlgbmugvxugqmuzurlgmugornu j

Vagbkgxzvbrbs ug(pkzgRgbmrlcgqugluu g.zrlxgbmragqkz grlbkgvgorbbou
zuwsbu),gbmragkluguhvfwou,gqmrimgVwrklgzuwkzbagmrfauopgbkgmvnug.uulgvl
utu-qrbluaagkp,gamvoogasppriuj

“Klug vt,”gavtagmu,g“vbgZkfu,gbmutgulbuzbvrlu gbmugwukwougqrbmgbmugarxmb
kpgbmugprxmbrlxgkpgaunuzvogabzvlxug.uvaba,gvl gwzrlirwvootgkpgorkla
kpgvlgslsasvogardu;gbmuzugqvagklugvfklxabgbmugzuabgqmk,g.tgmragpszrksa
 uwkzbfulb,g.tgbmugabzulxbmgvl govzxuluaagkpgmragorf.a,gvl g.tgmragoks 
vl g zuv psogzkvzrlx,gvbbzvibu gbmugutuagkpgvoogbmugawuibvbkzajgVfklxab
kbmuzgaovnuagbmvbgquzugwzuaulbu gbkgbmugwukwougrlgbmragikf.vbgkpg.uvaba
bmuzugqvagklugVl zk sa,gkpg virv,g.uoklxrlxgbkgvgZkfvlgokz gkpgiklasovz
 rxlrbtjgBmragorklgmvnrlxgauulgmrfgvbgvg rabvliugprzabgfv ugvgas  ul
abkw,gvagrbgquzugrlgvgqkl uzrlxgwkabszu,gvl gbmulgakpbotgvwwzkvimu 
luvzuzgrlgvgxulbougvl gwuviuv.ougfvlluz,gvagrpgrbgquzugbkgulbuzgrlbk
viesvrlbvliugqrbmgmrfjgBmrag.urlxg klu,gvl g.urlxglkqgvaaszu gkpgqmvbgmu
aksxmbgpkz,gmug.uxvlgbkgqvxgmragbvro,gvag kxag kgqmulgbmutgpovbbuzgbmurz
fvabuza,gvl gbkgcraagvl goricgbmugmvl agvl gbmrxmagkpgbmugwkkzgqzubim,
qmkgqvag.uar ugmrfauop,gvl gvofkabg uv gqrbmgpuvzjgVl zk sag.urlxg.t
bmragcrl luaagkpgbmugorklgvgorbbougikfugbkgmrfauop,gvl gmvnrlxgbvculgak
fsimgmuvzbgvagbkgiklar uzgvl gclkqgmrf,grbgqvagvgarlxsovzgwouvaszugbk
auugbmugyktgvl givzuaauagbmvbgwvaau g.ubqrhbgbmufjgVbgqmrimgbmugwukwou
.zuvcrlxgrlbkgoks gviiovfvbrklagkpgykt,gbmugufwuzkzgivsau gbmugaovnu
bkg.ugivoou ,gbkgclkqgpzkfgmrfgbmugivsaugkpgakgabzvlxugvlgunulb;gqmk
bmuzuswklgbko gmrfgvgluqgvl gvgnuztgabzvlxugabkzt:g“Ftgfvabuz,”gavr 
mu,g“.urlxgwzk-iklasogrlgVpzriv,gRgqvagiklabzvrlu ,g.tgmragaunuzrbtgvl 
izsuogsavxu,g.urlxg vrotg.uvbul,gbkgabuvogpzkfgmrfgvl gzslgvqvt;gvl ,
bkgmr ugftauopgauizubotgpzkfgvgwuzaklgkpgakgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbtgrlgbmu
wzknrliu,gRgbmksxmbgrbgftg.uabgqvtgbkgpotgbkgbmugakorbs ua,gavl a,gvl 
slrlmv.rbv.ougwvzbagkpgbmvbgikslbzt,gzuakonrlxgbmvbgrlgivaugbmugfuvlagkp
aswwkzbrlxgorpugamkso gimvliugbkgpvrogfu,gbkgfvcugakfugamrpbgkzgkbmuz
bkgcroogftauopjgBmugaslg.urlxguhiuaarnuotgmkbgvbglkkl,gvl gbmugmuvb
rlbkouzv.ou,gRgorbgswklgvgwzrnvbugvl gvofkabgrlviiuaar.ougivnu,gvl gqulb
rlbkgrbgAkklgvpbuzgbmuzugivfugrlgbkgfugbmragorkl,gqrbmgklugpkkbgqksl u 
vl g.okk t,gikfwovrlrlxgvl gxzkvlrlxgqrbmgbmugwvrlgmugul szu jgVbgmra
ikfrlxgRgqvaguhiuu rlxgvpzvr ;g.sbgmugmvnrlxgawru gfugmr grlgbmugikfuz
kpgmrag ul,givfugxulbotgbkgfu,gmko rlxgksbgvl gamkqrlxgfugmragqksl u 
pkkb,gvagrpgmug ufvl u gftgvaarabvliugrlgmrag rabzuaajgRgbmulg zuqgksb
vgxzuvbgaworlbuzgmugmv gxkbgbmuzu,gvl ,gxzkqrlxgvgorbbougfkzugpvfrorvz
qrbmgmrf,gaesuudrlxgbmugqksl gbmzsabgksbgbmugfvbbuz,g rzb,gvl gxzvnuo
qmrimgqvagxkbgrlbkgrb,gvl gqrwu gvl giouvlau grbgbmug.uabgRgikso jgMu,
prl rlxgmrfauopgakfubmrlxg.ubbuz,gvl gfsimguvau gkpgmragwvrl,govr gmrf
 kqlgbkgzuab,gvl gwzuaulbotgpuoogvaouuwgqrbmgmragpkkbgrlgftgmvl jgPzkf
bmvbgbrfugpkzqvz gmugvl gRgornu gbkxubmuzgrlgbmragivnugbmzuugqmkougtuvza
swklgklugvl gbmugavfug rub;gpkzgkpgbmug.uvabagbmvbgmugcroou grlgmslbrlx
mugvoqvtag.zksxmbgfugbmug.uabgwruiua,gqmrimgRgzkvabu grlgbmugaslgpkz
qvlbgkpgprzu,gvl gakgvbugrbjgVbgovab,gxzkqrlxgquvztgkpgbmragqro 
vl g.zsbramgorpu,gbmugorklg.urlxgklug vtgxklugv.zkv gbkgmslbgpkzgksz
kz rlvztgwzknrarkl,gRg uwvzbu gbmuliu,gvl gbmugbmrz g vtgvpbuzgqvagbvcul
.tgbmugako ruza,gqmkg.zksxmbgfugpzkfgVpzrivgbkgbmragirbtgbkgftgfvabuz,
qmkgwzuaulbotgikl uflu gfugbkg ru,gvl gbkg.ugbmsaguhwkau gbkgbmugqro 
.uvabajgLkq,g.tgqmvbgRgauu,gbmragorklgqvagvoakgbvculgakklgvpbuz,gqmkgmva
lkqgaksxmbgbkgzuikfwulaugfugpkzgbmug.uluprbgvl giszugbmvbgmugzuiurnu 
vbgftgmvl aj”gBmragragbmugabkztgbmvbgVl zk sagbko gbmugufwuzkz,gqmrimgmu
voakgiklnutu gpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl gbkgbmugwukwou;gqmuzupkzu,gvbgbmugxuluzvo
zuesuab,gmugqvagv.akonu gpzkfgmragaulbuliugvl gaubgvbgor.uzbt,gvl gbmu
orklgqva,g.tgkz uzgkpgbmugwukwou,gwzuaulbu gbkgmrfjg“Qugvpbuzqvz agavq,”
gavtagVwrkl,g“Vl zk sagouv rlxgbmragorkl,grlglkbmrlxg.sbgvgafvoogouvam,
pzkfgbvnuzlgbkgbvnuzlgvbgZkfu,gvl gzuiurnrlxgqmvbgfklutgunuztg.k tgqkso 
xrnugmrf,gbmugorklg.urlxgakgxulbougvagbkgasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugiknuzu 
qrbmgbmugpokquzagbmvbgbmugwukwougbmzuqgswklgmrf,gunuztgklugbmvbgfubgmrf
avtrlx,g‘Bmuzugxkuagbmugorklgbmvbgulbuzbvrlu gbmugfvl;gbmuzugxkuagbmu
fvlgbmvbgiszu gbmugorklj’”

Qugkpbulgovfulbgbmugokaagkpg.uvabagqugoknu,gvl gakg kgbmutgbmugokaagkp
sa:--


ggggggWkab,g.uoovbkzguessa,gwkarbragrlarxlr.sa,gÆbmkl
gggRbgoviztfvla,gxsbbraesugmsfuibâbgxzvl r.sagkzvj

gggggg“Bkgiokaugbmugwkfw,gÆbmkl,gbmugabuu gkpgabvbuj
gggRagou ,gbmugpsl’zvogkpgmragokz gbkgqvrbj
gggAbzrwwu gkpgmragbzvwwrlxa,gqrbmgvgasooulgwviu
gggMugqvoca,gvl gbmug.rxgbuvzagzslgzkoorlxg kqlgmragpviuj”


Vagakfuglvbrklagmvnugbmurzgqrnuagrlgikffkl,gvl gakfugkbmuzagmvnugunuzt
klugmragkql,graglkbgbmugavfugauulgvfklxg.uvaba,gvl gfvzzrvxuag.ubbuz
cuwbgbmvlgksza?gVagbkgbmugakirubtgvl giklpu uzvbrklgbmutgfvcu
vfklxabgbmufauonua,gbkgouvxsugbkxubmuzgvl gbkgxrnugklugvlkbmuzgfsbsvo
vaarabvliu,gragrbglkbgclkqlgbmvbgkhul,gmkxa,gvl gkbmuzgvlrfvoa,gvbgbmu
iztgkpgvltgkpgbmurzgcrl gbmvbgqugkppul ,gvoogbmugmuz gzslgbkgmragvr 
vl guf.k tgpkzgmrag upuliu?gBmugpramgAivzsa,gqmulgmugmvagaqvookqu gbmu
vlxouz’agmkkc,gmragpuookqagvoogizkq gv.ksbgmrfgvl gxlvqgbmugorlugrl
wruiua;gvl grp,g.tgimvliu,gklug.ugxkbgrlbkgbmug.kqglub,gbmugkbmuza
wzuaulbgmrfgbmurzgbvroagklgbmugksbar u,gqmrimgmugmko rlxgpvabgqrbmgmra
buubm,gbmutgvpbuzgbmvbgfvlluzg raulxvxugvl g zvqgmrfgksbj

Fsoouba,gqmulgklugkpgbmurzgikfwvlrklagragulxvxu ,gizkaagbmugorlugknuz
bmurzg.vic,gvl ,gqrbmgvgprlgbmutgmvnugbmuzu,grl ulbu gorcugvgavq,gisb
vl gavqgrbgvasl uzjgVagbkgbmugwvzbrisovzgkppriuagbmvbgqugzuiurnugpzkf
klugvlkbmuzgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgorpu,gbmuzugvzugaunuzvogorcuguhvfwoua
vfklxabgbmufjg‘Bragavr gbmvbgbmugqmvouglunuzgfknuagbmvbgamugmvaglkb
voqvtag.upkzugmuzgvgorbbougpramgorcugbmugauv-xs xukl,gpkzgbmragzuvakl
ivoou gbmugxsr u-pram,gqmkfgbmugqmvougpkookqa,gasppuzrlxgmrfauopgbkg.u
ou gvl gbszlu gqrbmgvagxzuvbgpvirorbtgvagbmugzs  uzgxsr uagbmugamrw;grl
zuikfwulaugkpgqmrimgauznriugvoak,gqmuzuvagvoogbmugkbmuzgbmrlxa,gqmubmuz
.uvabgkzgnuaauo,gbmvbgulbuzgrlbkgbmug zuv psogxsopgkpgbmragfklabuz’a
fksbm,gvzugrffu rvbuotgokabgvl gaqvookqu gsw,gbmragorbbougpramgzubrzua
rlbkgrbgrlgxzuvbgauiszrbt,gvl gbmuzugaouuwa,g szrlxgqmrimgbrfugbmugqmvou
lunuzgabrza;g.sbgakgakklgvagunuzgrbgxkuagksbgmugrffu rvbuotgpkookqa
rb;gvl grpg.tgviir ulbgmugokauagbmugarxmbgkpgmragorbbougxsr u,gmugxkua
qvl uzrlxgmuzugvl gbmuzu,gvl gabzrcuagmragar uagvxvrlabgbmugzkicagorcugv
amrwgbmvbgmvagokabgmuzgmuof;gqmrimgWosbvzimgvpprzfagbkgmvnugauulgrl
bmugraovl gkpgVlbritzvjgBmuzugragvgorcugakirubtg.ubqrhbgbmugorbboug.rz 
ivoou gbmugqzulgvl gbmugizkik roujgBmugqzulgauznuagpkzgvgaulbrluogknuz
bmragxzuvbgvlrfvo;gvl grpgbmugrimlusfkl,gmragfkzbvoguluft,gvwwzkvim
bkgprxmbgmrf,gbmragorbboug.rz ,gpkzgpuvzgouabgmugamkso gaszwzraugmrf
vaouuw,g.kbmgqrbmgmragnkriugvl g.roogzksauagmrfgvl gxrnuagmrfglkbriu
kpgmrag vlxuzjgMugpuu agkpgbmragfklabuz’agouvnrlxa,gqmkgzuiurnuagmrf
pvfrorvzotgrlbkgmragfksbm,gasppuzrlxgmrfgbkgwuicgrlgmragyvqagvl g.ubqrhb
mragbuubm,gvl gbmuliugbkgwricgksbgbmug.rbagkpgpouamgbmvbgzufvrl;gvl 
qmulgmugmvagvgfrl gbkgamsbgmragfksbm,gmugprzabgxrnuagbmug.rz gqvzlrlxgbk
xkgksbg.tgiokarlxgrbg.tgorbbougvl gorbbou,gvl gqrbmksbg.zsrarlxgkzg krlx
rbgvltgmvzfgvbgvoojgBmugamuoo-pramgivoou gbmuglvcuz,gornuagrlgbmugavfu
rlbuoorxuliugqrbmgbmugamzrfw,gvgorbbougakzbgkpgvlrfvogkpgbmugok.abuz
crl ,gqmrimgauznuagmrfgrlgbmuglvbszugkpgvgwkzbuz,garbbrlxgvbgbmugkwulrlx
kpgbmugamuoo,gqmrimgbmuglvcuzgcuuwagvoqvtagxvwrlxgvl gkwulgbroogbmu
amzrfwgauuagakfugorbbougpram,gwzkwuzgpkzgbmurzgwzut,gqrbmrlgbmugmkookq
kpgbmugamuoo,gqmuzugamugulbuzagbkk,gvl gwrlimuagbmuglvcuzgakgbkgbmu
esricgbmvbgamugragpkziu gbkgiokaugmuzgamuoo,gqmuzugbmutgbqkgbkxubmuz
 unkszgbmugwzutgbmutgmvnugbzvwwu grlgbmurzgpkzbjgRlgbmugfvlluzgkpgornrlx
kpgbmugbsllruagqugk.auznugvgarlxsovzgclkqou xugkpgbmugbmzuugwvzbagkp
fvbmufvbriajgVagbkgvabzkokxt,gbmutgbuvimgrbgful,gpkzgbmutgabvtgrlgbmu
woviugqmuzugbmutgvzugaszwzrau g.tgbmug.zsfvogakoabriu,gvl glunuz
abrzgbmuliugbroogbmugluhbguesrlkh;gpkzgqmrimgzuvaklgVzrabkbougmrfauop
vbbzr.sbuagbkgbmufgbmragairuliujgVagbkgxukfubztgvl gvzrbmfubri,gbmut
voqvtagpkzfgbmurzglsf.uzagrlgbmugprxszugkpgvgis.u,gunuztgqvtgaesvzu,gvl 
fvcugswgbmug.k tgkpgvg.vbbvorkl,gakor ,giokau,gvl gulnrzklu gzksl 
qrbmgarhguesvogar ua,gvl gaqrfgrlgbmragaesvzugkz uz,gvagovzxug.umrl 
vag.upkzu;gakgbmvbgqmkunuzgrlgauurlxgbmufgivlgikslbgklugzvlcgfvt
uvarotglsf.uzgbmugqmkougbzkkw,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmug uwbmgraguesvogbkgbmu
.zuv bm,gvl gbmug.zuv bmgbkgbmugoulxbmj

Vagbkgfvxlvlrfrbt,grbgqroog.ugmvz gbkguhmr.rbgvg.ubbuzgrlabvliugkpgrb
bmvlgrlgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmugxzuvbg kxgaulbgbkgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvbgpzkf
bmugRl ruajgBmutgprzabg.zksxmbgmrfgvgabvxgbkgulikslbuz,gluhbgvg.kvz,gvl 
vpbuzgbmvbgvg.uvz,gvoogqmrimgmugaorxmbu ,gvl g ra vrlu gbkgabrzgpzkf
mragwoviu;g.sbgqmulgmugavqgvgorklgmugbmulgrffu rvbuotgzksau gmrfauop,
unr ulbotgfvlrpuabrlxgbmvbgmug uiovzu gbmvbgvoklugqkzbmtgbkgulbuzgbmu
orabagqrbmgmrfjgBksimrlxgzuwulbvliugvl gbmugviclkqou xfulbgkpgpvsoba,
‘bragzuwkzbu gkpgvlguouwmvlbgbmvb,gmvnrlxgrlgbmugrfwubskarbtgkpgmragzvxu
croou gmragcuuwuz,gmugpuoogrlbkgakguhbzufugvgakzzkqgbmvbgmugqkso glunuz
vpbuzguvb,g.sbgabvznu gmrfauopgbkg uvbmjgVl gvagbkgioufulit,g‘bragavr 
kpgvgbrxuz,gbmugfkabgizsuogkpgvoog.uvaba,gbmvbgvgcr gmvnrlxg.uulgwsb
rlgbkgmrf,gmugasppuzu gvgbqkg vta’gmslxuzgzvbmuzgbmvlgmszbgrb,gvl gbmu
bmrz g.zkcugbmugxzvbugmugqvagamsbgswgrl,gbkgauucguoauqmuzugpkzgwzut;gak
slqroorlxgmugqvagbkgpvoogswklgbmugcr ,gmragpvfrorvzgvl gmragxsuab,gVl 
vagbkgbmugovqagkpgpvfrorvzrbtgvl gvxzuufulb,gpkzfu g.tgiklnuzavbrkl,
rbgkz rlvzrotgmvwwulagbmvbgqug.zrlxgswgivba,g kxa,gvl gmvzua,gbvfu
bkxubmuzj

.sbgbmvbgqmrimgauvfulg.tguhwuzruliugclkq,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgrlgbmu
ArirorvlgAuv,gkpgbmugesvorbtgkpgbmugmvoitkla,gaszwvaauagvoogmsfvl
bmksxmbgkpgqmvbgcrl gkpgvlrfvogmvaglvbszugunulgakgfsimgmklkszu gbmu
.rzbm?gBmugwkubagrl uu gavtgbmvbgklugklotgraovl ,g uoka,gqmrimgqva
.upkzugvgpokvbrlxgraovl ,gqvagprhu gpkzgbmugauznriugkpgOvbklv’a
otrlx-rl;g.sbgXk gmvagkz uzu gbmvbgbmugqmkougkiuvlgamkso g.ugabvtu ,
fv ugabv.ougvl gafkkbm,gqrbmksbgqvnua,gqrbmksbgqrl agkzgzvrl,gqmroab
bmugmvoitklgwzk siuagmuzgtkslx,gqmrimgragysabgv.ksbgbmugakoabriu,gbmu
amkzbuabg vtgkpgbmugtuvz;gakgbmvbg.tgmuzgwzrnrouxugqugmvnugaunulg vta
vl gaunulglrxmbagrlgbmugnuztgmuvzbgkpgqrlbuzgqmuzurlgqugfvtgavrogqrbmksb
 vlxuzjgBmurzgpufvouaglunuzgmvnugbkg kgqrbmgvltgkbmuzgfvoug.sbgbmurz
kql,gqmkfgbmutgauznugvl gvaarabgvoogbmurzgornua,gqrbmksbgunuzgpkzavcrlx
mrfjgRpgmug.uikfuagquvcgvl g.zkculgqrbmgvxu,gbmutgbvcugmrfgswklgbmurz
amkso uzagvl givzztgmrfgpzkfgwoviugbkgwoviu,gvl gauznugmrfgbroog uvbmj
.sbgbmugfkabgrlesrarbrnugrlbkgbmugauizubagkpglvbszugikso glunuzgtub
vzzrnugvbgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugqkl uzpsogpv.zrigqmuzuqrbmgbmugmvoitkl
.sro agmuzgluabgpkzgmuzgorbbougklua,glkzgxsuaagvbgbmugfvbuzrvoaj
Wosbvzim,gqmkgmvagauulgvl gmvl ou gfvltgkpgbmuf,gbmrlcagrbgragbmug.klua
kpgakfugpramgqmrimgamugykrlagvl g.rl agbkxubmuz,grlbuzovirlxgbmuf,gakfu
oulxbmqraugvl gkbmuzagvizkaa,gvl gv  rlxgzr.agvl gmkkwagrlgasimgfvlluz
bmvbgamugpkzfagvbgovabgvgzksl gnuaauogprbgbkgovslim;gqmrimg.urlxg klu,
vl gbmug.sro rlxgprlramu ,gamugivzzruagrbgbkgbmug.uvim,gqmuzugbmugauv
.uvbrlxgxulbotgvxvrlabgrbgamkqagqmuzugamugragbkgful gqmvbgraglkbgquoo
ykrlbu gvl gclrb,gvl gqmuzug.ubbuzgbkgpkzbrptgbmugauvfagbmvbgvzugouvct,
bmvbgkwulgvbgbmug.uvbrlxgkpgbmugqvnua;gvl ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gqmvbgra
quoog.srobgvl gmvagmv gbmug sugprlramrlx,gbmug.uvbrlxgkpgbmugqvnuag kua
akgiokaugvl g.rl gbkxubmuzgbmvbgrbgraglkbgbkg.ug.zkculgkzgizvicu g.t
.okqagurbmuzgkpgabklugkzgrzklgqrbmksbgnuztgfsimgv kjgVl gbmvbgqmrimgra
fkzugbkg.ugv frzu gragbmugwzkwkzbrklgvl gprxszugkpgbmugivnrbtgqrbmrl,
qmrimgragikfwkau gvl gwzkwkzbrklu gvpbuzgasimgvgfvlluzgvaglkbgbkgzuiurnu
kzgv frbgvltgkbmuzgbmrlxgbmvlgbmug.rz gbmvbg.srobgrb;gpkzgbkgvltgbmrlx
uoaugrbgragakgrfwulubzv.ou,giokau,gvl gamsb,glkbmrlxgivlgulbuz,glkbgak
fsimgvagbmugqvbuzgkpgbmugauvjgBmragragvgnuztg uvzg uaizrwbrklgkpgbmra
.sro rlx,gvl g.kzzkqu gpzkfgvgnuztgxkk gmvl ;gvl gtubgfu-bmrlcagrbg kua
lkbgxrnugsagaspprirulbgorxmbgrlbkgbmug rpprisobtgkpgbmragvzimrbuibszuj
Lkqgpzkfgqmvbgnvlrbtgivlgrbgwzkiuu gbkg uawraugvl gokkcg kqlgswkl,
vl g ra vrlpsootgbkgrlbuzwzub,guppuibagbmvbgqugivlglurbmuzgrfrbvbuglkz
ikfwzumul ?

Bkgwszasugvgorbbougpszbmuzgbmraguesvorbtgvl gikzzuawkl uliug.ubqrhbgsa
vl g.uvaba,gbmugwzrnrouxugkszgaksogakgfsimgxokzrpruagmuzauopgswkl,gkp
bmrlxagamugikliurnuagbkgmuzgkqlgovq,gkpgabzrwrlxgvoogbmrlxagbmvbgikfu
bkgmuzgkpgbmurzgfkzbvogvl gikzwkzuvogesvorbrua,gkpgkz uzrlxgvl 
wovirlxgbmrlxagamugikliurnuagqkzbmtgmuzgbvcrlxglkbriugkp,gabzrwwrlxgvl 
 rnuabrlxgbmufgkpgbmurzgikzzswbr.ougesvorbrua,gvl gfvcrlxgbmufgbk
ovtgvar ugoulxbm,g.zuv bm,g uwbm,gqurxmb,gikoksz,gafuoo,gzksxmluaa,
afkkbmluaa,gmvz luaa,gakpbluaa,gvl gvoogaular.ougviir ulba,gvagfuvl
vl gaswuzposksagnuabfulba,gbkgviikffk vbugbmufgbkgmuzgkqlgrffkzbvogvl 
awrzrbsvogikl rbrkl;gvagZkfugvl gWvzra,gpkzguhvfwou,gbmvbgRgmvnugrl
ftgpvlit,gWvzragbmvbgRgrfvxrlu,gRgrfvxrlugvl gikfwzumul grbgqrbmksb
xzuvbluaagvl gqrbmksbgwoviu,gqrbmksbgabklu,gqrbmksbgwovabuz,gvl gqrbmksb
qkk ;gbmragnuztgavfugwzrnrouxu,gRgavt,gauufagunr ulbotgbkg.ugrlg.uvaba;
pkzgvgikszauzgviisabkfu gbkgbzsfwuba,gbkgfsacub-amkba,gvl g.vbboua,gqmkf
qugauugabvzbgvl gbzuf.ougrlgmragaouuwgvl gabzubimu gswklgmragorbbuz,
vagrpgmugquzugrlgvgprxmb;grbgragvofkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgmugikliurnuagrl
mragaksogbmug.uvbgkpgvg zsfgqrbmksbglkrau,gvl gvlgvzftgqrbmksbgvzfagvl 
qrbmksbg.k t:--


ggggggEsrwwugnr u.ragueskagpkzbua,gisfgfuf.zvgyviu.slb
gggRlgakflra,gas vzugbvful,gawrzvzuesugaæwu,
gggUbgesvarg ugwvofâgasffvagiklbul uzugnrzua:

gggggg“Tksgamvoogauugfvlux’ gmkzauagrlgbmurzgaouuw
gggAquvb,galkzb,gabvzb,gbzuf.ou,gvl gvgiosbbuzgcuuw,
gggVagrpgqrbmgvoogbmurzgpkziugbmutgabzrnrlxgquzu
gggBmugnribkz’agwvofgwzks otgvqvtgbkg.uvz:”


bmugmvzu,gbmvbgvgxzutmksl grfvxrluagrlgmragaouuw,gvpbuzgqmrimgqugauu
mrfgwvlbgakgqmroabgmugaouuwa,gabzubimgksbgmragbvro,gamvcugmragouxa,gvl 
wuzpuibotgzuwzuaulbagvoogbmugfkbrklagkpgvgikszau,gragvgmvzugqrbmksbgpsz
vl gqrbmksbg.klua:--


ggggggNulvlbsfesugivluagrlgfkoorgaæwugesrubu
gggYvibvlbgizszvgbvfulgas.rbk,gnkiuaesugzuwulbu
gggFrbbslb,gubgizu.zvagzu sislbglvzr.sagvszva,
gggSbgnuabrxrvgargbuluvlbgrlnulbvgpuzvzsf:
gggUhwuzxupæbresugauesslbszgrlvlrvgaæwu
gggIuznkzsfgarfsovizv,gpvxægesvarg u rbvgiuzlvlb;
ggg kluug raisaaragzu uvlbguzzkzr.sagv gau:

gggggg“Vl gmksl agabrzgkpbulgrlgbmurzgesrubgzuab,
gggAwul rlxgbmurzgfksbma,gvagrpgswklgvgesuab,
gggAlspp,gvl g.zuvbmugesricgvl gamkzb,gvagrpgbmutgqulb
gggRlgvgpsoogimvaugswklgvg.szlrlxgaiulb:
gggLvt,g.urlxgqvc’ ,grfvxrl’ gabvxagwszasu,
gggVagrpgbmutgmv gbmufgrlgbmurzgzuvognruq,
gggBroo,gmvnrlxgamkkcgbmufauonuagfkzug.zkv gvqvcu,
gggBmutg kgvbgovabg raiknuzgbmugfrabvcu:”


bmugqvbim- kxa,gbmvbgqugkpbulgk.auznugbkgalvzogrlgbmurzg zuvfa,gvl 
vpbuzqvz ag.vzcgksb,gvl gabvzbgswgvagrpgbmutgwuziurnu gakfugabzvlxuz
vbgmvl ;gbmugabzvlxuzgbmvbgbmurzgaksog raiuzlagragvgfvlgawrzrbsvogvl 
rfwuziuwbr.ou,gqrbmksbg rfularkl,gqrbmksbgikoksz,gvl gqrbmksbg.urlx:--


ggggggIklasubvg kfrgivbsokzsfg.ovl vgwzkwvxk
ggg uxuzu,gaæwugounufguhgkisoragnkosizufesugakwkzuf
ggg raisbuzu,gubgikzwsag ugbuzzvgikzzrwuzugrlabvlb,
gggWzkrl ugesvargrxlkbvagpviruagvbesugkzvgbsvlbszj

gggggg“Bmugpvqlrlxgqmuowagkpgmksaumko giszagqroogzrau,
gggVl ,gamvcrlxgbmugakpbgaosf.uzgpzkfgbmurzgutua,
gggKpbg.vzcgvl gabvzugvbgun’ztgklugqrbmrl,
gggVagswklgpviuagbmutgmv glunuzgauulj”


bkgbmug.uvsbtgkpgbmug.k t,g.upkzugRgwzkiuu gvltgpszbmuzgRgamkso gclkq
qmubmuzgkzglkgqugvzugvxzuu gv.ksbgbmug uaizrwbrkljg‘Bragorcuotgqug k
lkbgquoogclkqgqmvbg.uvsbtgragrlglvbszugvl grlgxuluzvo,garliugbkgksz
kqlgmsfvlg.uvsbtgqugxrnugakgfvltg rnuzagpkzfa,gkpgqmrim,gquzugbmuzugvlt
lvbszvogzsougvl gwzuaizrwbrkl,gqugamkso gclkqgrbgrlgikffkl,gvagbmugmuvb
kpgbmugprzujg.sbgqugpvlitgbmugpkzfagviikz rlxgbkgkszgkqlgvwwubrbugvl 
orcrlx:--


gggBszwragZkfvlkg.uoxrisagkzugikokz:

ggg“VgXuzfvlgmsugroogasrba,gvgZkfvlgpviuj”


BmugRl rvlagwvrlbgrbg.ovicgvl gbvqlt,gqrbmgxzuvbgaquoou gorwa,gqr ugpovb
lkauagvl gokv gbmugivzbrovxug.ubqrhbgbmuglkabzroagqrbmgxzuvbgzrlxagkp
xko ,gbkgfvcugrbgmvlxg kqlgbkgbmugfksbm;gvagvoakgbmugsl uzgorwgqrbm
xzuvbgmkkwa,gulzrimu gqrbmgwzuirksagabklua,gbmvbgqurxmgbmufg kqlgbkgpvoo
swklgbmugimrl,grbg.urlxgqrbmgbmufgvgarlxsovzgxzviugbkgamkqgbmurzgbuubm,
unulg.uokqgbmugzkkbajgRlgWuzsgbmugxzuvbuabguvzagvzugbmugfkabg.uvsbrpso,
qmrimgbmutgabzubimgksbgvagpvzgvagbmutgivlg.tgvzbjgVl gvgfvlglkqgornrlx
avtagbmvbgmugmvagauulgrlgvlguvabuzlglvbrklgbmragivzugkpgulovzxrlxgbmuf
rlgakgxzuvbgzuwsbu,gvl gbmuguvzgokv u gqrbmgakgwkl uzksagyuquoa,gbmvbgmu
 r gqrbmgxzuvbguvaugwsbgmragvzf,gaouunugvl gvoo,gbmzksxmgbmugmkougkp
vlguvzjgBmuzugvzuguoauqmuzuglvbrklagbmvbgbvcugxzuvbgivzugbkg.ovicgbmurz
buubm,gvl gmvbugbkgauugbmufgqmrbu,gqmroabgkbmuzagwvrlbgbmufgzu jgBmu
qkfulgvzugzuwsbu gfkzug.uvsbrpso,glkbgklotgrlg.raivt,g.sbguoauqmuzu,
pkzgmvnrlxgbmurzgmuv agamvnu ;gvl ,gqmrimgragfkzu,grlgiuzbvrlgpzkdul
ikslbzrua,gvagWorltgzuwkzbajgBmugFuhrivlaguabuufgvgokqgpkzumuv gvgxzuvb
.uvsbt,gvl gbmksxmgbmutgamvnugvoogkbmuzgwvzba,gbmutglkszramgmvrzgkl
bmugpkzumuv gvl grlizuvaugrbg.tgvzb,gvl gmvnugxzuvbg.zuvabagrlgakgxzuvb
zuwsbvbrklgbmvbgbmutgvppuibgbkgxrnugbmurzgimro zulgasicgknuzgbmurz
amkso uzajgQugamkso gwvrlbg upkzfrbtgakjgBmugRbvorvlagpvamrklgrbgxzkaa
vl gfvaat;gbmugAwvlrvz agxvslbgvl gaoul uz;gvl gvfklxabgsagklugmva
rbgqmrbu,gvlkbmuzg.zkql;gklugakpbgvl g uorivbu,gvlkbmuzgabzklxgvl 
nrxkzksa;gklugqroogmvnugmragfrabzuaagakpbgvl gxulbou,gkbmuzagmvsxmbtgvl 
fvyuabrijgYsabgvagbmugwzupuzuliugrlg.uvsbtgbmvbgWovbkgvbbzr.sbuagbkgbmu
awmuzrivogprxszugbmugUwriszuvlagxvnugzvbmuzgbkgbmugwtzvfr vogkzgaesvzu,
vl givllkbgaqvookqgvgxk grlgbmugpkzfgkpgvg.kqojg.sb,g.ugrbgmkqgrbgqroo,
lvbszugmvaglkgfkzugwzrnrouxu gsagrlgbmragpzkfgmuzgikffklgovqagbmvlgrl
bmugzuabgVl grpgqugqroogys xugkszauonuagvzrxmb,gqugamvoogprl gbmvb,grp
bmuzug.ugakfugvlrfvoagouaagpvnkszu grlgbmragbmvlgqu,gbmuzugvzugkbmuza,
vl grlgxzuvbuzglsf.uz,gbmvbgvzugfkzu;g_vgfsobragvlrfvor.sag uikzu
nrlirfsz_g“Fvltgvlrfvoagaszwvaagsagrlg.uvsbt,”gunulgvfklxgbmu
buzzuabzrvo,gkszgikfwvbzrkba;gpkzgvagbkgbmkaugkpgauv,gaubbrlxgbmugprxszu
var u,gqmrimgivllkbgpvoogrlbkgvltgfvlluzgkpgwzkwkzbrkl,g.urlxgakgfsim
vlkbmuzgbmrlxgrlgikoksz,giouvzluaa,gafkkbmluaa,gvl gvzzvlxufulb,gqu
aspprirulbotgxrnugwoviugbkgbmuf;gvl glkgouaa,grlgvoogesvorbrua,gbkgbmu
vuzrvojgVl gbmragwzuzkxvbrnugbmvbgbmugwkubagfvcugasimgvgfrxmbtgfvbbuz
kp,gkszguzuibgabvbszu,gokkcrlxgbkqvz agmuvnulgkszgkzrxrlvo,


ggggggWzklvesugisfgawuibulbgvlrfvorvgiæbuzvgbuzzvrl,
gggKagmkfrlrgas.orfug é rb,gikosfesugbsuzr
gggYsaarb,gubguzuibkagv gar uzvgbkoouzugnsobsa,

gggggg“Qmroabgvoogbmug.zsbvogizuvbszuag kqlqvz g.ul 
gggBmurzgarxmb,gvl gbkgbmurzguvzbmotgfkbmuzgbul ,
gggMugaubgfvl’agpviugvokpb,gbmvb,gqrbmgmragutua
gggSworpbu ,gmugfrxmbgnruqgbmugabvzztgacrua,”


ragbzsotgwkubrivo;gpkzgbmuzugvzugaunuzvogorbboug.uvabagqmkgmvnugbmurz
arxmbgv.akosbuotgbszlu gbkqvz agmuvnul;gvl gRgprl gbmugxuabszugkpgivfuoa
vl gkabzrimuagfsimgmrxmuzgzvrau gvl gfkzuguzuibgbmvlgkszajgQmvbgvlrfvoa
mvnuglkbgbmurzgpviuagv.knugvl glkbg.upkzu,gvl g kglkbgokkcgkwwkarbu,
vagqug k;gvl gbmvbg kglkbgrlgbmurzglvbszvogwkabszug raiknuzgvagfsimgkp
muvnulgvl guvzbmgvagfvl?gVl gqmvbgesvorbruagkpgkszg.k rotgiklabrbsbrkl,
rlgWovbkgvl gIriuzk,gfvtglkbgrl rppuzulbotgauznugvgbmksavl gakzbagkp
.uvaba?gBmkaugbmvbgfkabgzuauf.ougsagvzugbmugfkabg uawriv.ougvl g upkzfu 
kpgvoogbmugmuz ;gpkzgbmkau,gvagbkgksbqvz gvwwuvzvliugvl gpkzfgkpgnravxu,
vzug.v.kkla:--


ggggggArfrvgesvfgarfrora,gbszwraarfvg.uabrv,glk.ra?

gggggg“Mkqgorcugbkgfvl,grlgnravxugvl grlgamvwu,
gggRa,gkpgvoog.uvabagbmugfkabgsliksbm,gbmugvwu?”


vagbkgbmugrlbuzlvogvl gnrbvogwvzba,gbmugmkxjgRlguvzluab,gqmulgRgiklar uz
fvlgabvzcglvcu ,gunulgrlgbmvbgauhgqmrimgauufagbkgmvnugxzuvbuabgamvzugkp
.uvsbt,gmrag upuiba,glvbszvogas.yuibrkl,gvl grfwuzpuibrkla,gRgprl gbmvb
qugmvnugfkzugzuvaklgbmvlgvltgkbmuzgvlrfvo,gbkgiknuzgkszauonua;gvl gvzu
bkg.uguhisau gpzkfg.kzzkqrlxgkpgbmkaugbkgqmkfglvbszugmvagrlgbmrag.uul
crl uzgbmvlgbkgsa,gbkgbzricgkszauonuagksbgqrbmgbmurzg.uvsbrua,gvl gmr u
kszauonuagsl uzgbmurzgawkroa,gbmurzgqkko,gpuvbmuza,gmvrz,gvl garocjgOub
sagk.auznu,gvagbkgbmugzuab,gbmvbgfvlgragbmugakougvlrfvogqmkaugls rbrua
kppul gmragkqlgikfwvlrkla,gvl gbmugklotgklugqmkgrlgmraglvbszvogvibrkla
qrbm zvqagvl gmr uagmrfauopgpzkfgmragkqlgcrl jgVl gzuvootg‘bragvoak
vlguppuibgqkzbmgiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgbmutgqmkgvzugfvabuzagrlgbmugbzv u
wzuaizr.u,gvagvgzufu tgpkzgvfkzksagwvaarkla,gbmugpsoogvl gpzuugnruqgkp
bmug.k tgvgfvlg uarzua;gpkzgbmvbgbkgikkogbmugvz kszgbmuzugluu aglkgfkzu
.sbgpzuuotgvl gpsootgbkgauugqmvbgmugoknua:--


ggggggRoougesk gk.aiælvagrlgvwuzbkgikzwkzugwvzbua
gggNr uzvb,grlgiszasgesrgpsrb,gmæarbgvfkzj

gggggg“Bmugoknugbmvb’agbrobrlxgqmulgbmkaugwvzbagvwwuvz
gggKwulgbkgnruq,gpovxagrlgbmugmkbgivzuuz,”


Vl ,gvobmksxmgbmragzuiurwbgfvtgwuzv nulbszugwzkiuu gpzkfgvglriugvl giko 
msfksz,grbgraglkbqrbmabvl rlxgvgnuztgxzuvbgarxlgkpgkszg uprirulirua
bmvbgsaugvl gviesvrlbvliugamkso gfvcugsag raxsabgklugvlkbmuzjgRbgra
lkbgfk uabt,gakgfsimgvagisllrlxgvl gwzs uliu,gbmvbgfvcuagkszgov ruagak
irzisfawuibgbkgzupsaugsagv frbbvliugrlbkgbmurzgiv.rlubag.upkzugbmutgvzu
wvrlbu gvl gbzricu gswgpkzgbmugws.orignruq:--


ggggggLuigNuluzuaglkabzvagmkigpvoorb;geskgfvxragrwaæ
gggKflrvgasffkwuzugmkagnrbægwkabaiulrvgiuovlb,
gggEskagzubrluzugnkoslb,gv abzribkesuguaaugrlgvfkzu:

gggggg“Kpgbmragkszgov ruagvzugpsoogquoogvqvzu,
gggQmrimgfvcugbmuf,gqrbmgasimgwzrnvitgvl givzu,
ggg.umrl gbmugaiulugvoogbmkaug upuibagzufknu,
gggOrcuotgbkgimuicgbmugpovfugkpgbmkaugbmutgoknu,”


qmuzuva,grlgaunuzvogvlrfvoagbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgqug kglkbgoknu,gvl 
bmvbg kuaglkbgwouvaugkszgaulaua;gakgbmvbgpzkfgbmurzgnuztguhizufulba
qug kglkbgklotguhbzvibgqmuzuqrbmgbkgmurxmbulgkszgavsiua,g.sbgvoakgksz
zrimuabgkzlvfulbagvl gwuzpsfuajgBmrag raikszaugzupouibagswklglklug.sb
bmugkz rlvztgakzbgkpgqkful,gvl graglkbgakgavizrouxrksagvagbkgikfwzumul 
bmkaug rnrlu,gaswuzlvbszvo,gvl guhbzvkz rlvztg.uvsbrua,gqmrimgqugauu
amrlugkiivarklvootgvfklxgsagorcugabvzagsl uzgvgikzwkzuvogvl gbuzzuabzrvo
nuroj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gbmugnuztgamvzugbmvbgqugvookqgbkg.uvabagkpgbmug.kslbt
kpglvbszu,g.tgkszgkqlgiklpuaarkl,gragnuztgfsimgbkgbmurzgv nvlbvxujgQu
vbbzr.sbugbkgkszauonuagrfvxrlvztgvl gpvlbvabrigxkk ,gpsbszugvl gv.aulb
xkk ,gpkzgqmrimgmsfvlgivwvirbtgivllkbgkpgmuzauopg.ugzuawklar.ou;gkz
xkk ,gbmvbgqugpvoauotgvbbzr.sbugbkgkszauonuag.tgbmugoriulaugkpgkwrlrkl,
vagzuvakl,gclkqou xu,gvl gmklksz,gvl gouvnugbkgbmufgpkzgbmurzg rnr ul ,
uaaulbrvo,g szv.ou,gvl gwvowv.ougxkk ,gvagwuviu,gzuwkau,gauiszrbt,
rllkiuliu,gvl gmuvobm;gmuvobm,gRgavt,gbmugpvrzuabgvl gzrimuabgwzuaulb
bmvbglvbszugivlgfvcugsajgRlakfsimgbmvbgwmrokakwmt,gunulgbmugAbkri,gragak
.ko gvagbkgavt,g“BmvbgMuzviorbsagvl gWmuzuir ua,gikso gbmutgmvnugbzsicu 
bmurzgqra kfgpkzgmuvobm,gvl gmvnug uornuzu gbmufauonua,gbmugklugkpgmra
 zkwat,gvl gbmugkbmuzgkpgbmugoksatg rauvaugbmvbgbkzfulbu gmrf,gbmutgmv 
 klugquooj”g.tgqmrimgbmutgaubgvgxzuvbuzgnvosugswklgqra kf,gikfwvzrlxgvl 
wsbbrlxgrbgrlbkgbmug.vovliugqrbmgmuvobm,gbmvlgbmutg kgqrbmgbmragkbmuz
wzkwkarbrkl,gqmrimgragvoakgbmurza;gbmutgavtgbmvbgrpgIrziugmv gwzuaulbu 
Sotaauagqrbmgbmugbqkgwkbrkla,gbmugklugbkgfvcugvgpkkog.uikfugvgqrau
fvl,gvl gbmugkbmuzgbkgfvcugvgqraugfvlg.uikfugvgpkko,gbmvbgSotaauagksxmb
zvbmuzgbkgmvnugimkaulgbmugovab,gbmvlgiklaulbgbkgbmvbg.tgqmrimgIrziu
imvlxu gmragmsfvlgprxszugrlbkgbmvbgkpgvg.uvab;gvl gavtgbmvbgqra kf
rbauopgqkso gmvnugawkcugbkgmrfgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:g“Pkzavcugfu,goubgfu
voklu,gzvbmuzgbmvlgok xugfugsl uzgbmug.k tgvl gprxszugkpgvlgvaaj”gMkq!
bmugwmrokakwmuza,gbmulgqroogv.vl klgbmragxzuvbgvl g rnrlugqra kfgpkz
bmragikzwkzuvogvl gbuzzuabzrvogiknuzrlx?gRbgragbmulglkgfkzug.tgzuvakl,
.tg raikszau,gvl g.tgbmugakso,gbmvbgquguhiuog.uvaba;g‘brag.tgkszg.uvsbt,
kszgpvrzgikfwouhrkl,gvl gkszgprlugatffubztgkpgwvzba,gpkzgqmrimgqugfsab
esrbgkszgrlbuoorxuliu,gkszgwzs uliu,gvl gvoogbmugzuabjgQuoo,gRgviiuwb
bmragkwulgvl gpzuugiklpuaarkl;giuzbvrlotgbmutgcluqgbmvbgbmkaugwvzba,
swklgqmrimgqugakgfsimgnvosugkszauonua,gvzuglkgkbmuzgbmvlgnvrlgpvlitj
Rpg.uvabagbmulgmv gvoogbmugnrzbsu,gclkqou xu,gqra kf,gvl gabkrivo
wuzpuibrkl,gbmutgqkso gabroog.ug.uvaba,gvl gqkso glkbg.ugikfwvzv.ougbk
fvl,gfrauzv.ou,gqricu ,gfv ,gfvljgPkz,grlgamkzb,gqmvbunuzgraglkbgvagqu
vzugraglkbmrlxgqkzbm;gvl gXk ,gbkgwzkiszugmrfauopgvlguabuufgvfklxgsa,
fsabgwsbgmrfauopgrlbkgbmvbgamvwu,gvagqugamvoogamkqgvlkljg.tgqmrimgrb
vwwuvzagbmvbgrbgraglkbgswklgvltgbzsugxzksl gkpgzuvakl,g.sbg.tgvgpkkoram
wzr ugvl gnvrlgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgqugwzupuzgkszauonuag.upkzugkbmuzgvlrfvoa,
vl gauwvzvbugkszauonuagpzkfgbmurzgakirubtgvl gikl rbrklj

.sbgbkgzubszlgbkgqmvbgRgqvagswklg.upkzu;gqugmvnugpkzgkszgwvzb
rliklabvlit,grzzuakosbrkl,grliuzbrbs u,gakzzkq,gaswuzabrbrkl,gakorirbs u
kpgbmrlxagbkgikfu,gunulgvpbuzgqugamvoog.uglkgfkzu,gvf.rbrkl,gvnvzriu,
yuvoksat,gulnt,grzzuxsovz,gpzvlbri,gvl gslbvfu gvwwubrbua,gqvz,gotrlx,
 raoktvobt,g ubzvibrkl,gvl giszrkarbtjg ks.bouaa,gqugmvnugabzvlxuot
knuzwvr gbmragprlugzuvakl,gswklgqmrimgqugakgfsimgxokzrptgkszauonua,gvl 
bmragivwvirbtgkpgys xrlxgvl gclkqrlx,grpgqugmvnug.ksxmbgrbgvbgbmugwzriu
kpgbmragrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgwvaarklagbkgqmrimgqugvzugubuzlvootgas.yuibj
Slouaagqugamvoogvoakgbmrlcgprb,gvagunulgAkizvbuag kua,gbkgv  gbkgbmu
ikslbuzwkraugbmvbglkbv.ougwzuzkxvbrnugv.knug.uvaba,gBmvbgqmuzuvaglvbszu
mvagwzuaizr.u gbmufgiuzbvrlgauvaklagvl gorfrbagpkzgbmug uorxmbagkp
Nulsa,gamugmvagxrnulgsagbmugzurlagvbgvoogmkszagvl gvoogauvaklaj”g_Sb
nrlsfgkxzkbra,gesrvgwzk uabgzvzô,glkiubgakwraarfu,gfuorsaguabglkl
v mr.uzugkflrlk,gesvf,gawug s.rkgavosbra,grlgvwuzbvfgwuz-lriruf
rliszzuzu;gari,gmvs gairkgvlgfuorsagpsuzrbgmsfvlkgxuluzrgfkbsfgrabsf
iuouzufgikxrbvbrklra,gvisful,gakouzbrvf,gesvfgzvbrklufgnkivfsa,gesklrvf
wuabrpuzvgarlbgfsobra,gv -fk sfgwvsiragavosrvzrv,glklg vzrgkflrlk,
esvfgbvfgfslrriugubgbvfgovzxug vzr?_gVagrbgpvooagksbgbmvbgqrlugkpbul
mszbrlxgbmugaric,gvl gnuztgzvzuotg krlxgbmufgxkk ,grbgrag.ubbuzglkbgbk
xrnugbmufgvltgvbgvoogbmvlgbkgzslgrlbkgvlgvwwvzulbg vlxuzgksbgkpgmkwugkp
vlgsliuzbvrlg.uluprb,gakgRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgrbgmv glkbg.uulg.ubbuzgpkz
fvlcrl gbmvbgbmragesricgfkbrkl,gbmragwulubzvbrkl,gbmragas.boubtgbmvbgqu
ivoogzuvakl,gmv glkbg.uulgxrnulgbkgfvlgvbgvoo;giklar uzrlxgmkqgwuabrpuzksa
rbgragbkgfvlt,gvl gsaupsog.sbgbkgpuq,gbmvlgbkgmvnug.uulgiklpuzzu grlgak
v.sl vlbgfvlluz,gvl gqrbmgakgor.uzvogvgmvl j”gKpgqmvbgv nvlbvxugivlgqu
ikliurnugbmugclkqou xugkpgakgfvltgbmrlxagqvagbkgTvzzkgvl gVzrabkbou?g r 
rbguhufwbgbmufgpzkfgmsfvlgrliklnulruliua?gQuzugbmutg.tgrbgpzuu gpzkf
bmugviir ulbagbmvbgovtgmuvntgswklgbmugamkso uzagkpgvgwkzbuz?g r gbmut
uhbzvibgpzkfgbmurzgokxrigvltgiklakovbrklgpkzgbmugxksb?gKz,gpkzgclkqrlx
mkqgbmragmsfkszgragok xu grlgbmugykrlba,g r gbmutgpuuogrbgbmugouaa?
 r gbmutgulbuzgrlbkgikfwkarbrklgqrbmg uvbmg.tgclkqrlxgbmvbgakfuglvbrkla
zuykriugvbgmragvwwzkvim;gkzgqrbmgisicko zt,g.tgclkqrlxgbmvbgrlgakfu
wvzbagkpgbmugqkzo gqrnuagvzugrlgikffkl?gKlgbmugiklbzvzt,gmvnrlxg.uul
zuwsbu gbmugxzuvbuabgfulgpkzgclkqou xu,gbmugklugvfklxabgbmugZkfvla
vl gbmugkbmuzgvfklxabgbmugXzuuca,gvl grlgvgbrfugqmulgouvzlrlxg r gfkab
pokszram,gqugmvnuglkbgmuvz ,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgbmutgmv gvltgwvzbrisovz
uhiuoouliugrlgbmurzgornua;glvt,gbmugXzuucgmv gulksxmgbkg kgbkgiouvz
mrfauopgpzkfgakfuglkbv.oug.ouframuagrlgmrajgMvnugqugk.auznu gbmvb
wouvaszugvl gmuvobmgmvnugvg.ubbuzgzuoramgqrbmgmrfgbmvbgsl uzabvl a
vabzkokxtgvl gxzvffvzgbmvlgqrbmgkbmuza?


gggRoorbuzvbrglsfgfrlsagluznrgzrxulb?

ggg“Bm’groorbuzvbugwoksxmfvlgragvagprb
gggPkzgNulsa’gauznriugvagbmugqrb:”


kzgamvfugvl gwknuzbtgouaagbzks.ouakfugbkgbmugprzabgbmvlgbkgbmugovab?


ggggggAiroriubgubgfkz.ragubg u.rorbvbugivzu.ra,
gggUbgosibsfgubgiszvfguppsxrua,gubgbufwkzvgnrbæ
gggOklxvgbr.rgwkabgmæigpvbkgfuorkzug v.slbszj

gggggg“ rauvaugbmtgiksimgamvoogpouu,
gggVl gakzzkqgvl givzu;gtua,gbmks,g.ugaszu,gqrobgauu
gggOklxgtuvzagkpgmvwwrluaa,gbrooglkqgslclkqlj”


Rgmvnugclkqlgrlgftgbrfugvgmsl zu gvzbravla,gvgmsl zu gov.kszuza,gqrauz
vl gfkzugmvwwtgbmvlgbmugzuibkzagkpgbmugslrnuzarbt,gvl gqmkfgRgmv gfsim
zvbmuzgmvnugzuauf.ou jgOuvzlrlx,gfubmrlca,gmvagrbagwoviugvfklxabgbmu
luiuaavzt,gbmrlxagkpgorpu,gvagxokzt,glk.rorbt,g rxlrbt,gkzgvbgbmugfkab,
vag.uvsbt,gzrimua,gvl gasimgkbmuzgesvorbrua,gqmrimgrl uu gvzugsaupso
bkgrb,g.sbgzufkbuot,gvl gfkzug.tgkwrlrklgbmvlg.tglvbszujgQugabvl 
nuztgorbbougfkzugrlgluu gkpgkppriua,gzsoua,gvl govqagkpgornrlxgrlgksz
akirubt,gbmvlgizvluagvl gvlbag kgrlgbmurza;gvl gtubgqugauugbmvbgbmuau
ivzztgbmufauonuagnuztgzuxsovzotgqrbmksbguzs rbrkljgRpgfvlgqvagqrau,gmu
qkso gbvcugbmugbzsugnvosugkpgunuztgbmrlxgviikz rlxgvagrbgqvagsaupso
vl gwzkwuzgbkgmragorpujgQmkunuzgqrooglsf.uzgsag.tgkszgvibrklagvl 
 uwkzbfulbagqroogprl gfvltgfkzuguhiuooulbgfulgvfklxabgbmugrxlkzvlbgbmvl
vfklxgbmugouvzlu ;gvtu,grlgvoogakzbagkpgnrzbsujgKo gZkfugauufagbkgfu
bkgmvnug.uulgkpgfsimgxzuvbuzgnvosu,g.kbmgpkzgwuviugvl gqvz,gbmvlgbmvb
ouvzlu gZkfugbmvbgzsrlu grbauopjgVl ,gbmksxmgvoogbmugzuabgamkso g.u
uesvo,gtubgrlbuxzrbtgvl grllkiulitgqkso gzufvrlgbkgbmugvlirulba,gpkz
bmutgikmv.rbgarlxsovzotgquoogqrbmgarfworirbtjg.sbgRgqroogouvnugbmra
 raikszau,gbmvbgqkso gouv gfugpvzbmuzgbmvlgRgvfgqroorlxgbkgpkookq;gvl 
amvoogklotgavtgbmragpszbmuz,g‘bragklotgmsfrorbtgvl gas.fraarklgbmvbgivl
fvcugvgikfwoubugxkk gfvljgQugvzuglkbgbkgouvnugbmugclkqou xugkpgmrag sbt
bkgunuztgfvl’agkqlgys xfulb;gqugvzugbkgwzuaizr.ugrbgbkgmrf,gvl glkb
asppuzgmrfgbkgimkkaugrbgvbgmragkqlg raizubrkl;gkbmuzqrau,gviikz rlxgbk
bmugrf.uirorbt,gvl grlprlrbugnvzrubtgkpgkszgzuvaklagvl gkwrlrkla,gqu
amkso gvbgovzxugpkzxugkszauonuag sbruagbmvbgqkso ,gvagUwriszsagavta,
ulykrlgsagbkguvbgklugvlkbmuzj

BmugprzabgovqgbmvbgunuzgXk gxvnugbkgfvlgqvagvgovqgkpgwszugk.u ruliu;grb
qvagvgikffvl fulbglvcu gvl garfwou,gqmuzurlgfvlgmv glkbmrlxgbkgrlesrzu
vpbuz,glkzgbkg rawsbu;gpkzvafsimgvagbkgk.utgragbmugwzkwuzgkppriugkpgv
zvbrklvogakso,gviclkqou xrlxgvgmuvnulotgaswuzrkzgvl g.ulupvibkzjgPzkf
k.u ruliugvl gas.fraarklgawzrlxgvoogkbmuzgnrzbsua,gvagvoogarlg kuagpzkf
auopkwrlrkljgVl ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmugprzabgbufwbvbrklgbmvbg.tgbmu
 unrogqvagkppuzu gbkgmsfvlglvbszu,grbagprzabgwkraklgrlarlsvbu grbauop
rlbkgsag.tgbmugwzkfraugfv ugsagkpgclkqou xugvl gqra kf;g_Uzrbragarisb
 rr,gairulbuag.klsfgubgfvosfj_g“Tugamvoog.ugvagxk a,gclkqrlxgxkk gvl 
unroj”gVl gbmugarzula,grlgMkfuz,gbkgvooszugSotaaua,gvl g zvqgmrfgqrbmrl
bmug vlxuzgkpgbmurzgalvzua,gkppuzu gbkgxrnugmrfgclkqou xujgBmugwovxsugkp
fvlgragbmugkwrlrklgkpgqra kf;gvl gpkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgragbmvbgrxlkzvliu
ragakgzuikfful u gbkgsa,g.tgkszgzuorxrkl,gvagwzkwuzgbkgpvrbmgvl 
k.u ruliu;g_Ivnubuglugesragnkag uirwrvbgwuzgwmrokakwmrvfgubgrlvlua
au sibrklua,gauisl sfguoufulbvgfsl rj_g“Bvcugmuu ,gouabgvltgfvlg uiurnu
tksg.tgwmrokakwmtgvl gnvrlg uiurb,gvpbuzgbmugbzv rbrklgkpgful,gvl gbmu
zs rfulbagkpgbmugqkzo j”gBmuzugragrlgbmragvgxuluzvogiklaulbgvfklxab
voogakzbagkpgwmrokakwmuza,gbmvbgbmugaknuzurxlgxkk giklarabagrlgbmu
bzvlesroorbtgkpgbmugaksogvl g.k t;g.sbgqmuzugamvoogqugprl grb?


ggggggV gasffsf,gavwrulagslkgfrlkzguabgYknu,g rnua,
gggOr.uz,gmklkzvbsa,gwsoimuz,gzuhg ulrelugzuxsf;
gggWzæirwsugavlsa,glrargisfgwrbsrbvgfkouabvguab:

gggggg“Rlgamkzb,gbmugqraugragklotgouaagbmvlgYknu,
gggZrim,gpzuu,gvl gmvl akfu;glvt,gvgcrlxgv.knu
gggVooguvzbmotgcrlxa;gqrbmgmuvobmgaswzufuotg.ouab,
gggUhiuwbrlxgqmulgvgiko g rabsz.agmragzuab!”


Rbgauufa,grlgbzsbm,gbmvbglvbszu,gpkzgbmugiklakovbrklgkpgkszgfrauzv.ou
vl gqzubimu gabvbu,gmvagklotgxrnulgsagwzuasfwbrklgpkzgkszgrlmuzrbvliuj
‘BragvagUwribubsagavta,gbmvbgfvlgmvaglkbmrlxgwzkwuzotgmragkql,g.sbgbmu
saugkpgmragkwrlrkl;gqugmvnuglkbmrlxg.sbgqrl gvl gafkcugpkzgkszgwkzbrklj
Bmugxk agmvnugmuvobmgrlguaauliu,gavtagwmrokakwmt,gvl garicluaagrl
rlbuoorxuliujgFvl,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gwkaauaauagmragxkk ag.tgpvlit,gmra
rooagrlguaauliujgQugmvnugzuvaklgbkgfvxlrptgbmugwkquzgkpgkszgrfvxrlvbrkl;
pkzgvoogkszgxkk agvzugklotgrlg zuvfjgMuvzgbmragwkkzgivovfrbksagvlrfvo
mspp!g“Bmuzugraglkbmrlx,”gavtagIriuzk,g“akgimvzfrlxgvagbmugufwoktfulbgkp
oubbuza;gkpgoubbuza,gRgavt,g.tgfuvlagqmuzukpgbmugrlprlrbtgkpgbmrlxa,gbmu
rffulaugxzvl uszgkpglvbszu,gbmugmuvnulagunulgrlgbmragqkzo ,gbmuguvzbm,
vl gbmugauvagvzug raiknuzu gbkgsa;g‘bragbmutgbmvbgmvnugbvsxmbgsa
zuorxrkl,gfk uzvbrkl,gvl gbmugxzvl uszgkpgikszvxu,gvl gbmvbgmvnugzuaisu 
kszgaksoagpzkfg vzcluaa,gbkgfvcugmuzgauugvoogbmrlxa,gmrxm,gokq,gprzab,
ovab,gvl gfr  orlx;g‘bragbmutgbmvbgpszlramgsagqmuzuqrbmgbkgornugmvwwrot
vl gquoo,gvl gikl sibgsagbkgwvaagknuzgkszgornuagqrbmksbg rawouvaszu,gvl 
qrbmksbgkppuliuj”g kuaglkbgbmragfvlgauufgbkgawuvcgkpgbmugikl rbrklgkp
bmugunuz-ornrlxgvl gvofrxmbtgXk ?g.sbgvagbkguppuiba,gvgbmksavl gorbbou
ikslbztqkfulgmvnugornu gornuagfkzuguesvo,gfkzugaquub,gvl giklabvlbgbmvl
mraj


gggggg usagroougpsrb,g usa,grliotbugFuffr,
gggEsrgwzrliuwagnrbægzvbrklufgrlnulrbguvzl,gesæ
gggLsligvwwuoovbszgavwrulbrv;gesresugwuzgvzbuf
gggPosibr.sagègbvlbragnrbvf,gbvlbraesugbulu.zra,
gggRlgbvfgbzvlesroovgubgbvfgiovzvgosiugokivnrb:

gggggg“Bmvbgxk ,gxzuvbgFuffsa,gqvagvgxk glkg ks.b
gggQmk,gwzrliugkpgorpu,gprzabgpksl gbmvbgzuvaklgksb
gggLkqgqra kfgivoou ;gvl g.tgmragvzb,gqmkg r 
gggBmvbgorpugrlgbufwuabagbkab,gvl g vzcluaagmr ,
gggWoviugrlgakgxzuvbgvgivof,gvl giouvzgvgorxmb:”


muzugvzug.zvnugzvlbrlxgqkz a;g.sbgvgnuztgaorxmbgviir ulbgwsbgbmragfvl’a
sl uzabvl rlxgrlgvgqkzaugikl rbrklgbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmugfuvluabgamuwmuz ,
lkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmragrlabzsibrlxgxk ,gbmrag rnrlugqra kfjgKpgbmugavfu
abvfwgvl grfws uliugragbmugwzkfraugkpg ufkizrbsa’ag.kkc:g“Rgvfgxkrlxgbk
awuvcgkpgvoogbmrlxa;”gvl gbmvbgpkkoramgbrbougbmvbgVzrabkbougwzuprhua
bkgklugkpgmra,gkz uzgklotgvppkz u gmrfgvgpuqgosir grlbuznvoagqmrim
mugufwoktu grlgikfwkarlxgmrag.kkc,gvl gvbgovabgfv ugmrfgcroo
mrfauop,--Usau.rsa’agImzklriklj

KpgbmugFkzbvogXk a;gvl gbmugys xfulbgkpgImztarwwsa,gbmvbg“ rklgqvagva
nrzbsksagvagXk ;”gvl gftgAuluivgmrfauopgavta,gbmvbg“Xk gmv gxrnulgmrf
orpu;g.sbgbmvbgbkgornugquoogqvagmragkql;”giklpkzfv.otgbkgbmragkbmuz:g_Rl
nrzbsbugnuzugxokzrvfsz;gesk glklgiklbrlxuzub,gargr g klsfgàg uk,glklgà
lk.ragmv.uzufsa:_g“Qugbzsotgxokztgrlgkszgnrzbsu;gqmrimgqkso glkbg.u,
rpgrbgqvagxrnulgsagkpgXk ,gvl glkbg.tgkszauonua;”gbmragragvoakgAuluiv’a
avtrlx;g“bmvbgbmugqraugfvlgmvbmgpkzbrbs uguesvogqrbmgXk ,g.sbgbmvbgmra
ragrlgawrbugkpgmsfvlgpzvrobt,gqmuzurlgbmuzupkzugmugfkzugbmvlguesvoa
Xk j”gBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgkz rlvztgvagbkgfuubgqrbmgavooruagkpgbmugorcu
bufuzrbt;gbmuzugraglklugkpgsa,gqmkgbvcugakgfsimgkppuliugbkgauugmrfauop
uesvoou gqrbmgXk ,gvagmug kuagbkgauugmrfauopgsl uznvosu g.tg.urlxgzvlcu 
qrbmgkbmuzgizuvbszua;gakgfsimgfkzugvzugqugyuvoksagkpgkszgkqlgrlbuzuab
bmvlgbmvbgkpgkszgIzuvbkzj

.sbgqugfsabgbzvfwougsl uzgpkkbgbmragpkkoramgnvlrbt,gvl g.zracotgvl 
.ko otgamvcugbmugzr risoksagpksl vbrklgswklgqmrimgbmuaugpvoaugkwrlrkla
vzugpksl u jgAkgoklxgvagfvlgamvoog.uorunugmugmvagvltgfuvlagvl gwkquzgkp
mrfauop,gmugqrooglunuzgviclkqou xugqmvbgmugkquagbkgmragFvcuz;gmraguxxa
amvoogvoqvtag.ugimricula,gvagbmugavtrlxgra;gqugfsabgbmuzupkzugabzrwgmrf
bkgmragamrzbjgOubgsagauugakfuglkbv.ouguhvfwouagkpgbmuguppuibagkpgmra
wmrokakwmt:gWkar klrsag.urlxgbkzfulbu gqrbmgvg rauvaugakgwvrlpsogvagfv u
mrfgqzrbmugmragvzfagvl gxlvamgmragbuubm,gbmksxmbgmugaspprirulbotgaikzlu 
bmug koksz,g.tgiztrlxgksbgvxvrlabgrb:g“Bmksgfvtabg kgbmtgqkzab,gRgqroo
lkbgiklpuaagbmvbgbmksgvzbgvlgunroj”gMugqvagvagaular.ougkpgbmugwvrlgva
ftgpkkbfvl,g.sbgmugfv ugvg.zvnv kgkpg.zr orlxgmragbklxsu,gvbgouvab,
vl gzuabzvrlrlxgrbgqrbmrlgbmugovqagkpgmragauib:g_Zugasiisf.uzuglkl
kwkzbu.vb,gnuz.ragxokzrvlbufj_g“Rbg r glkbg.uikfugmrf,gbmvbgawkcugak
.rx,gbkgiklpuaagmragpzvrobtgqmulgmugivfugbkgbmugbuabj”gVziuarovag.urlx
roogkpgbmugxksb,gvl gIvz-luv ua,gqmkgmv gikfugbkgauugmrf,gxkrlxgvqvt
bzks.ou gvbgmragikl rbrkl,gmugivoou gmrfg.vic,gvl gamkqrlxgmrfgmragpuub
vl g.zuvab:g“Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgikfuagbmuliugmrbmuz,”gavr gmujgBmragmva
akfubmrlxgvg.ubbuzgxzviu,gpkzgmugpuuoagmrfauopgrlgwvrl,gvl gqkso g.u
 raulxvxu gpzkfgrb;g.sbgmragmuvzb,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,graglkbgiklesuzu glkz
as. su g.tgrbjgBmugkbmuzgabvl agfkzugk.abrlvbuotgbkgmragwkrlb,g.sb,gR
puvz,gzvbmuzgnuz.vootgbmvlgzuvootjgVl g rkltarsagMuzvioukbua,gvpporibu 
qrbmgvgnumufulbgafvzbrlxgrlgmragutua,gqvagzu siu gbkgesrbgbmuaugabkrivo
zuakosbrklajg.sbgunulgbmksxmgclkqou xugamkso ,grlguppuib,g kgvagbmut
avt,gvl gikso g.oslbgbmugwkrlb,gvl g soogbmugu xu,gkpgbmugfrapkzbslua
bmvbgvbbul gsa,gqmvbg kuagamu,gfkzugbmvlgqmvbgrxlkzvliug kuagfkzugwszuot
vl gunr ulbot?--BmugwmrokakwmuzgWtzzmk,g.urlxgvbgauvgrlgnuztgxzuvb
 vlxuz,g.tgzuvaklgkpgvgfrxmbtgabkzf,gwzuaulbu glkbmrlxgbkgbmugrfrbvbrkl
kpgbmkaugqmkgquzugqrbmgmrf,grlgbmvbguhbzufrbt,g.sbgvgmkxgbmutgmv gkl
.kvz ,gbmvbgqvagpuvzouaagvl gslikliuzlu gvbgbmugbufwuabjgWmrokakwmt,
qmulgamugmvagavr gvoogamugivl,gzupuzagsagvbgovabgbkgbmuguhvfwougkpgv
xov rvbkz,gqzuabouz,gkzgfsoubuuz,grlgqmrimgakzbgkpgwukwougqugikffklot
k.auznugfsimgouaagvwwzumularklgkpg uvbm,gaulaugkpgwvrl,gvl gkbmuz
rliklnulruliua,gvl gfkzugkpgul szvliu,gbmvlgunuzgclkqou xugpszlramu 
vltgklugqrbmvo,gbmvbgqvaglkbg.kfgvl g.zu gbkgmvz amrwjgQmvbgragbmugivsau
bmvbgqugfvcugrlirarkla,gvl gisbgbmugbul uzgorf.agkpgvlgrlpvlb,gvl gbmkau
kpgvgmkzau,gfkzuguvarotgbmvlgkszgkql--.sbgrxlkzvliugklot?gMkqgfvltgmva
fuzugpkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrklgfv ugaric?gQugkpbulgauugfulgivsaugbmufauonua
bkg.ugoubg.okk ,gwszxu ,gvl gwmtaricu ,gbkg.ugiszu gkpg rauvauagbmut
klotgpuuogrlgkwrlrklj--Qmulgzuvogrlprzfrbruagpvrogsa,gclkqou xugoul agsa
muz’a;gbmvbgikoksz,gbmvbgikfwouhrkl,gwkzbul gakfugivbvzzmksag uposhrkl;
bmragmkbgauvaklgbmzuvbulagsagqrbmgvgpunuz;gbmrag.zuvimgrlgbmu
orpu-orlugkpgtkszgoupbgmvl gxrnuagtksglkbriugkpgakfugluvzgvl g vlxuzksa
rl rawkarbrkl;gvl gvbgovabgamugzksl otgvbbvicagmuvobmgrbauop;gavtrlx,
bmragawzrxmborluaagvl gnrxkszgkpgtksbmgivllkbgiklbrlsugrlgbmragwkabszu;
bmuzugfsabg.ug.okk gbvcul,gvl gbmugmuvbgv.vbu ,gouabgrbgbszlgvxvrlab
tkszauopjgIkfwvzugbmugorpugkpgvgfvlgas.yuibu gbkgasimgrfvxrlvbrkla,
bkgbmvbgkpgvgov.kszuzgbmvbgasppuzagmrfauopgbkg.ugou g.tgmraglvbszvo
vwwubrbu,gfuvaszrlxgbmrlxagklotg.tgbmugwzuaulbgaulau,gqrbmksbgclkqou xu,
vl gqrbmksbgwzkxlkabri,gbmvbgpuuoaglkgwvrlgkzgaricluaa,g.sbgqmulgmugra
zuvootgroojgQmuzuvagbmugkbmuzgmvagbmugabklugrlgmragakso,g.upkzugmugmva
rbgrlgmrag.ov  uz;gvagrpgrbgquzuglkbgbrfugulksxmgbkgasppuzgbmugunrogqmul
rbgamvoogikfu,gmugfsabgvlbrirwvbugrbg.tgpvlit,gvl gzslgbkgfuubgrbj

QmvbgRgavtgkpgwmtarigfvtgxuluzvootgauznugrlguhvfwougpkzgvoogkbmuz
airuliuajgBmuliugrag uzrnu gbmvbgvlirulbgkwrlrklgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuza
bmvbgwoviu gbmugaknuzurxlgxkk grlgbmug raiknuztgkpgbmugquvcluaagkpgksz
ys xfulbgFtgrxlkzvliugvppkz agfugvagfsimgkiivarklgkpgmkwugvagkpgpuvz;
vl gmvnrlxglkgkbmuzgzsougpkzgftgmuvobmgbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmuguhvfwouagkp
kbmuza,gvl gkpgunulbagRgauuguoauqmuzugswklgbmugorcugkiivarkl,gRgprl gkp
voogakzba,gvl gzuotgswklgbmkaugqmrimg.tgikfwvzraklgvzugfkabgpvnkszv.ou
bkgfujgRgzuiurnugmuvobmgqrbmgkwulgvzfa,gpzuu,gpsoo,gvl gulbrzu,gvl 
.tgakgfsimgbmugfkzugqmubgftgvwwubrbugbkgulyktgrb,g.tgmkqgfsimgrbgra
vbgwzuaulbgouaagkz rlvztgvl gfkzugzvzu;gakgpvzgvfgRgpzkfgbzks.orlxgrba
zuwkaugvl gaquubluaagqrbmgbmug.rbbuzluaagkpgvgluqgvl giklabzvrlu gfvlluz
kpgornrlxjg.uvabagaspprirulbotgamkqgsagmkqgfsimgbmugvxrbvbrklgkpgksz
frl ag.zrlxagrlprzfrbruagvl g rauvauagswklgsajgBmvbgqmrimgragbko gsagkp
bmkaugkpg.zvdro,gbmvbgbmutglunuzg rug.sbgkpgko gvxu,gragvbbzr.sbu gbk
bmugauzulrbtgvl gbzvlesroorbtgkpgbmugvrzgbmutgornugrl;g.sbgRgzvbmuz
vbbzr.sbugrbgbkgbmugauzulrbtgvl gbzvlesroorbtgkpgbmurzgaksoa,gpzuugpzkf
voogwvaarkl,gbmksxmb,gkzgufwoktfulb,guhbul u gkzgslwouvarlx,gvgwukwou
bmvbgwvaagknuzgbmurzgornuagrlgvgqkl uzpsogarfworirbtgvl grxlkzvliu,
qrbmksbgoubbuza,gqrbmksbgovq,gqrbmksbgcrlx,gkzgvltgfvlluzgkpgzuorxrklj
Vl gqmuliugikfuagbmvb,gqmrimgqugprl g.tguhwuzruliu,gbmvbgbmugmuvnruab
vl g soouabgfulgvzugfkabgv.ou;gvl gbmugfkabgbkg.ug uarzu grlgvfkzksa
wuzpkzfvliua;gvl gbmvbgbmugoknugkpgvgfsoubuuzgkpbulgzul uzagrbauopgfkzu
viiuwbv.ougbmvlgbmvbgkpgvgxulboufvl,grpgrbg.uglkbgbmvbgbmugvxrbvbrkl
kpgbmugaksogrlgbmugovbbuzg rabsz.agmragwmtarivogv.rorbt,g raakonuagvl 
brzuagrb,gvagrbgvoakgkz rlvzrotgbzks.ouagvl gbrzuagrbauopjgQmvbgwsbagbmu
aksog.uar ugrbauop,gvl gfkzugsasvootgbmzkqagrbgrlbkgfv luaa,g.sbgmuzgkql
wzkfwbluaa,gnrxksz,gvl gvxrorbt,gvl ,gprlvoot,gmuzgkqlgwzkwuzgpkziu?gKp
qmvbgragbmugfkabgas.bougpkootgfv u,g.sbgkpgbmugfkabgas.bougqra kf?gVa
xzuvbgpzrul amrwagawzrlxgpzkfgxzuvbgulfrbrua,gvl gnrxkzksagmuvobmgpzkf
fkzbvog rauvaua,gakgpzkfgbmugzvzugvl gnrnr gvxrbvbrklagkpgkszgaksoa
wzkiuu gbmugfkabgqkl uzpsogvl gfkabg rabzvibu gpzuldrua;g‘brag.sbgmvop
vgbszlgkpgbmugbkugpzkfgbmugklugbkgbmugkbmuzjgRlgbmugvibrklagkpgfv fulgqu
auugmkqgrlprlrbuotgfv luaagzuauf.ouagbmugfkabgnrxkzksagkwuzvbrklagkp
bmugaksojgQmkg kuaglkbgclkqgmkqgrl raiuzlr.ougbmug rppuzuliugrag.ubqrhb
pkootgvl gbmugawzrxmbotguounvbrklagkpgvgpzuugakso,gvl gbmuguppuibagkpgv
aswzufugvl guhbzvkz rlvztgnrzbsu?gWovbkgavtagbmvbgfuovlimkotgwuzaklagvzu
bmugfkabgivwv.ougkpg rairworlu,gvl gbmugfkabguhiuooulb;gvl gviikz rlxot
rlglklugragbmuzugakgxzuvbgvgwzkwularklgbkgfv luaajgXzuvbgqrbagvzugzsrlu 
.tgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzgpkziugvl gworv.rorbt;grlbkgqmvbgvgikl rbrkl,gbmzksxm
mragkqlgvxrbvbrklgvl gwzkfwbluaagkpgpvlit,gragklugkpgbmugfkabgys rirksa,
rlxulrksa,gvl gluvzuabgpkzfu ,gkpgvltgkbmuzgRbvorvlgwkub,gbkgbmugvrzgkp
bmugvlirulbgvl gbzsugwkuat,govbuotgpvooul!gMvagmuglkbgnvabgk.orxvbrkl
bkgbmragnrnvirbtgbmvbgmvag uabzktu gmrf?gbkgbmragorxmbgbmvbgmvag.orl u 
mrf?gbkgbmraguhvibgvl gas.bougvwwzumularklgkpgzuvaklgbmvbgmvagwsbgmrf
.uar ugmragkql?gbkgbmragiszrksagvl gov.kzrksagauvzimgvpbuzgairuliua,
bmvbgmvagzu siu gmrfgbkgrf.uirorbt?gvl gbkgbmragzvzugvwbrbs ugbkgbmu
uhuzirauagkpgbmugakso,gbmvbgmvagzul uzu gmrfgqrbmksbguhuziraugvl 
qrbmksbgakso?gRgqvagfkzugvlxzt,grpgwkaar.ou,gbmvlgikfwvaarklvbu,gbkgauu
mrfgvbgPuzzvzvgrlgakgwrbrpsogvgikl rbrklgasznrnrlxgmrfauop,gpkzxubbrlx
.kbmgmrfauopgvl gmragqkzca,gqmrim,gqrbmksbgmragclkqou xu,gbmksxmg.upkzu
mragpviu,gmvnug.uulgws.oramu gslpkzfu gvl grlikzzuibj

Qkso gtksgmvnugvgfvlgmuvobmt,gqkso gtksgmvnugmrfgzuxsovz,gvl grlgv
abuv tgvl gauiszugwkabszu?gFsppougmrfgswgrlgbmugamv uagkpgabswr rbtgvl 
aokbmjgQugfsabg.ugfv ug.uvabagbkg.ugfv ugqrau,gvl gmkk qrlcu g.upkzugqu
vzugprbgbkg.ugou jgVl grpgklugamvoogbuoogfugbmvbgbmugv nvlbvxugkpgmvnrlx
vgiko gvl g soogaulaugkpgwvrlgvl gkbmuzgunroa,g.zrlxagbmrag rav nvlbvxu
voklxgqrbmgrb,gbkgzul uzgsagiklauesulbotgouaagaular.ougvoakgrlgbmu
pzsrbrklgkpgxkk gvl gwouvaszu,gbmragragbzsu;g.sbgbmugfrauztgkpgksz
ikl rbrklgragasimgbmvbgqugmvnuglkbgakgfsimgbkgulyktgvagbkgvnkr ,gvl 
bmvbgbmuguhbzufuabgwouvaszug kuaglkbgvppuibgsagbkgbmug uxzuugbmvbgv
orxmbgxzrupg kua:g_Auxlrsagmkfrluag.klvgesvfgfvovgaulbrslbj_gQugvzuglkb
akgaular.ougkpgbmugfkabgwuzpuibgmuvobmgvagqugvzugkpgbmugouvabgaricluaaj


ggggggWslxrb
gggRlgisbugnrhgasfgfvgnrkovbsfgwovxsovgikzwsa;
gggEsvl kgnvouzuglrmrogesufesvfgfknubjgMkigysnvbgslsf,
gggEsk gfuglklgbkzesubgovbsa,gvsbgwua;
gggIæbuzvgesraesvfgNrhgesuvbgvsbgavlsfgauau,gvsbgaulbrzugnvoulbufj

gggggg“Bmug.k tgqrbmgvgorbbougabrlxgragxzrun’ ,
gggQmulgbmugfkabgwuzpuibgmuvobmgraglkbgwuziurn’ ,
gggBmragklotgwouvauagfu,gbmvbgawouulglkzgxksb
gggLurbmuzgkppul gftgar uglkzgqzrlxgftgpkkb;
gggUhiuwbrlxgbmuau,gaivziugvltgklugivlgbuoo,
gggKzgu’uzgk.auznua,gqmulgmu’agrlgmuvobmgvl gquooj”


Kszgquoo-.urlxgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbmuglkbg.urlxgroojgQmrimgragbmugzuvaklgqmt
bmvbgauibgkpgwmrokakwmuza,gqmrimgaubagbmugxzuvbuabgnvosugswklgwouvaszu,
mvagtubgprhu grbgimrupotgrlgsliklairksaluaagkpgwvrljgBkg.ugpzuu gpzkf
roogragbmugxzuvbuabgxkk gbmvbgfvlgivlgmkwugpkzgkzg uarzu;gvagUllrsa
avta,--


gggLrfrsfg.klrguab,gisrglrmroguabgfvor;


pkzgbmvbgunuztgbricorlxgvl gabrlxgqmrimgvzugrlgiuzbvrlgwouvaszua,gvl 
bmvbgauufgbkgzvraugsagv.knugarfwougmuvobmgvl gwvaarnuluaa,gbmvbgvibrnu,
fknrlx,gvl ,gRgclkqglkbgmkq,grbimrlx,gvl g.rbrlxgwouvaszu;gunulgbmvb
nuztgwouvaszugrbauopgvrfagvbglkbmrlxg.sbgrlaular.rorbtgvagrbagfvzcjgBmu
vwwubrbugbmvbgivzzruagsagmuv oklxgbkgqkful’aguf.zviuagmvaglkgkbmuzgul 
.sbgklotgbkgiszugbmugbkzfulbgkpgkszgvz ulbgvl gpszrksag uarzua,gvl gklot
zuesrzuagbkg.ugxosbbu gvl govr gvbgzuab,gvl g uornuzu gpzkfgbmugpunuzj
Vl gakgkpgbmugzuabjgRgavt,gbmul,gbmvbgrpgarfworirbtgikl sibagsagbkgv
abvbugpzuugpzkfgunro,gamugouv agsagbkgvgnuztgmvwwtgklugviikz rlxgbkgksz
ikl rbrkljgVl gtubgqugvzuglkbgbkgrfvxrlugrbgakgabswr gvlgrlaular.rorbt
vagbkg.ugbkbvootgqrbmksbgaulau;gpkzgIzvlbkzgmv gnuztgxkk gzuvaklgbk
iklbzknuzbgbmugrlaular.rorbtgkpgUwriszsa,grpgpksl u gakg uuwgbmvbgbmu
nuztgprzabgvbbvicgvl g.rzbmgkpgunroagquzuglkbgbkg.ugwuziurnu :g“Rg kglkb
vwwzknugasimgvlgrlaular.rorbtgvagraglurbmuzgwkaar.ouglkzgbkg.ug uarzu j
Rgvfgnuztgquoogiklbulbglkbgbkg.ugaric;g.sbgrpgRgvf,gRgqkso gclkqgbmvb
Rgvfgak;gvl grpgvgivsabrig.ugvwworu ,gkzgrlirarklagfv ugrlgvltgwvzb,gR
qkso gpuuogbmufj”gRlgbzsbm,gqmkunuzgqkso gbvcugvqvtgbmugclkqou xugvl 
aulaugkpgunro,gqkso gvbgbmugavfugbrfuguzv rivbugbmugaulaugkpgwouvaszu,
vl gprlvootgvllrmrovbugfvlgmrfauop:g_Rabs glrmrog kouzu,glklgarlugfvxlâ
fuziu ugiklbrlxrb,grffvlrbvbragrlgvlrfk,gabswkzragrlgikzwkzuj_g“Vl
rlaular.rorbtgbmvbgraglkbgbkg.ugwszimvau g.sbgvbgbmugwzriugkpgrlmsfvlrbt
rlgbmugakso,gvl gkpgabswr rbtgkpgbmug.k tj”gUnrogvwwuzbvrlagbkgfvl
kpgikszaujgLurbmuzgragwvrlgvoqvtagbkg.ugvnkr u ,glkzgwouvaszugvoqvta
wszasu j

‘Bragvgxzuvbgv nvlbvxugbkgbmugmklkszgkpgrxlkzvliugbmvbgclkqou xugrbauop
bmzkqagsagrlbkgrbagvzfa,gqmulgamugprl agmuzauopgwsddou gbkgpkzbrpt
sagvxvrlabgbmugqurxmbgkpgunro;gamugragiklabzvrlu gbkgikfugbkgbmra
ikfwkarbrkl,gbkgxrnugsagbmugzurla,gvl gwuzfrbgsagbkgpotgrlbkgbmugovw
kpgbmugkbmuz,gvl gbkgamuobuzgkszauonuagsl uzgmuzgwzkbuibrklgpzkfgbmu
abzkcuagvl grlyszruagkpgpkzbslujgPkzgqmvbguoaugragmuzgfuvlrlxgqmulgamu
rlabzsibagsagbkg rnuzbgkszgbmksxmbagpzkfgbmugrooagbmvbgwzuaagswklgsa,
vl gulbuzbvrlgbmufgqrbmgbmugfu rbvbrklgkpgwouvaszuagwvabgvl gxklu;gbk
ikfpkzbgkszauonuagrlgwzuaulbgvpporibrklagqrbmgbmugzufuf.zvliugkpgpou 
 uorxmba,gvl gbkgivoogbkgkszgasiikszgvgnvlramu gavbrapvibrkl,gbkgkwwkau
rbgbkgbmug raikfpkzbgbmvbgoruagmuvntgswklgsa?g_Ounvbrkluagæxzrbs rlsf
rlgvnkivbrklugvgikxrbvl âgfkouabrâ,gubgzunkivbrklgv giklbufwovl va
nkoswbvbua,gwklrb_;g“Mug rzuibagsagbkgvoounrvbugkszgxzrupgvl gwvrlag.t
zuyuibrlxgslwouvavlbgbmksxmba,gvl gzuivoorlxgvxzuuv.ougr uva;”grpgrbg.u
lkbgbmvbgqmuzugmuzgwkquzgpvroagamugqkso gaswwotgrbgqrbmgwkorit,gvl gfvcu
saugkpgaourxmbgkpgmvl gqmuzugpkziugkpgorf.agqrooglkbgauznugmuzgbszl?gPkz
lkbgklotgbkgvgwmrokakwmuz,g.sbgbkgvltgfvlgrlgmragzrxmbgqrba,gqmulgmugmva
swklgmrfgbmugbmrzabgkpgvg.szlrlxgpunuz,gqmvbgavbrapvibrklgivlgrbg.ugbk
mrfgbkgzufuf.uzgbmugwouvaszugmugbkkcgrlg zrlcrlxgXzuucgqrlugvgfklbmgvxk?
Rbgqkso gzvbmuzgklotgfvcugfvbbuzagqkzaugbkgmrf:--


gggImugzrikz vzargrog.ulg kwwrvgovglkrvj

ggg“Bmugbmrlcrlxgkpgwouvaszug ks.ouagbzks.ouj”


Kpgbmugavfugabvfwgragbmragkbmuzgikslauogbmvbgwmrokakwmtgxrnua,gklotgbk
zufuf.uzgbmugmvwwrluaagbmvbgragwvab,gvl gbkgpkzxubgbmugfrav nulbszuagqu
mvnugsl uzxklu;gvagrpgqugmv gbmugairuliugkpgk.ornrklgrlgkszgkqlgwkquz,
vl gikslauo,gqmuzurlgqugvzugtubglkgfkzugbkgauucj


gggAsvnragov.kzsfguabgwzæbuzrbkzsfgzæfkzrvj

ggg“Aquubgragbmugfufkztgkpg.t-xklugwvrlj”


Mkqg kuagwmrokakwmt,gbmvbgamkso gvzfgfugbkgiklbul gqrbmgpkzbslu,gvl 
abuuogftgikszvxugbkgbzvfwougvoogmsfvlgv nuzarbruagsl uzgpkkb,gvzzrnugbk
bmrag uxzuugkpgikqvz riugbkgfvcugfugmr ugftgmuv gvbgbmragzvbu,gvl gavnu
ftauopg.tgbmuaugwrbrpsogvl gzr risoksagamrpba?gPkzgbmugfufkztgzuwzuaulba
bkgsaglkbgqmvbgqugimkkau,g.sbgqmvbgamugwouvaua;glvt,gbmuzugraglkbmrlx
bmvbgakgfsimgrfwzrlbagvltgbmrlxgrlgkszgfufkztgvagvg uarzugbkgpkzxubgrbj
Vl g‘bragvgxkk gqvtgbkgzubvrlgvl gcuuwgvltgbmrlxgavpugrlgbmugaksogbk
akorirbgmuzgbkgokaugrbjgVl gbmragragpvoau:g_Uabgarbsfgrlglk.ra,gsb
ubgv nuzavgesvargwuzwubsvgk.ornrklugk.zsvfsa,gubgauisl vgysisl ugub
asvnrbuzgfufrluzrfsa;_g“rbgragrlgkszgwkquzgbkg.szt,gvagrbgquzu,grlgv
wuzwubsvogk.ornrkl,gvoogv nuzaugviir ulba,gvl gbkgzubvrlgvgwouvavlbgvl 
 uorxmbpsogfufkztgkpgkszgasiiuaaua;”gvl gbmragragbzsu:g_Fufrlrgubrvfgesk
lkok;gk.ornrairglklgwkaasfgeskgnkokj_g“Rg kgvoakgzufuf.uzgqmvbgRgqkso 
lkb;g.sbgRgivllkbgpkzxubgqmvbgRgqkso j”gVl gqmkaugikslauogragbmra?gMra,
_esrgaugslruagavwruznbufgwzkprbuzrgarbgvsasa;_g“qmkgvoklug szabgwzkpuaa
mrfauopgvgqraugfvlj”


ggggggEsrgxulsagmsfvlsfgrlxulrkgaswuzvnrb,gubgkflua
gggWzæabrlhrbgabuoova,guhkzbsagsbrgæbmuzusagAkoj

gggggg“Qmkgpzkfgfvlcrl gbmugwzrdugkpgclkqou xugqkl,
gggVl gwsbgbmugabvzagksbgorcugbmugzrarlxgaslj”


Bkgufwbtgvl g rapszlramgbmugfufkzt,graglkbgbmragbmugbzsugqvtgbk
rxlkzvliu?


gggRluzagfvokzsfgzufu rsfgrxlkzvlbrvguabj

ggg“Rxlkzvliugrag.sbgvg soogzufu tgpkzgunroaj”


Qugprl gaunuzvogkbmuzgorcugwzuiuwba,gqmuzu.tgqugvzugwuzfrbbu gbkg.kzzkq
pzrnkoksagvwwuvzvliuagpzkfgbmugnsoxvz,gqmuzugqugprl gbmugabzklxuab
zuvaklgqrooglkbgvlaquzgbmugwszwkau,gwzknr u gbmutgv frlrabuz
avbrapvibrklgvl gikfpkzbgQmuzugbmutgivllkbgiszugbmugqksl ,gbmutgvzu
iklbulbgbkgwvoorvbugvl g.ulsf.grbgRg.uorunugbmutgqrooglkbg ultgbmra,
bmvbgrpgbmutgikso gv  gkz uzgvl giklabvlitgrlgvgabvbugkpgorpugbmvbgikso 
fvrlbvrlgrbauopgrlguvaugvl gwouvaszug.tgakfug u.rorbtgkpgys xfulb,gbmut
qkso gviiuwbgrb:--


ggggggWkbvzu,gubgawvzxuzugpokzua
gggRlirwrvf,gwvbrvzesugnuogrliklasobsagmv.uzrj

gggggg“Xrnugfugbkg zrlc,gvl ,gizkql’ gqrbmgpokquza,g uawrau
gggBmugxzvnug raxzviugkpg.urlxgbmksxmbgslqrauj”


Bmuzugqkso g.ugvgxzuvbgfvltgwmrokakwmuzagkpgOtiva’agfrl gbmragfvl,g.urlx
kbmuzqraugkpgnuztgzuxsovzgfvlluza,gornrlxgesrubotgvl giklbulbu otgrlgmra
pvfrot,gvl glkbgpvrorlxgrlgvltgkppriugkpgmrag sbt,gurbmuzgbkqvz agmra
kqlgkzgabzvlxuza,gvl gnuztgivzupsootgwzuauznrlxgmrfauopgpzkfgmszbpso
bmrlxa,g.uivfu,glunuzbmuouaa,g.tgakfug rabufwuzgrlgmrag.zvrl,gwkaauaau 
qrbmgvgikliurbgbmvbgmugqvagwuzwubsvootgrlgbmugbmuvbzu,gvgawuibvbkzgkp
bmugprluabgarxmbagvl gbmug.uabgikfu ruagrlgbmugqkzo ;gvl g.urlxgiszu g.t
bmugwmtarirvlagkpgmragpzuldt,gqvagmvz otgwzunulbu gpzkfgul uvnkszrlxg.t
asrbgbkgikfwuogbmufgbkgzuabkzugmrfgvxvrlgbkgmragwouvarlxgrfvxrlvbrkl:--


ggggggWkogRgfugkiir rabra,gvfrir,
gggLklgauznvabra,gvrb;gisrgariguhbkzbvgnkoswbva,
gggUbg ufwbsagwuzgnrfgfulbragxzvbraarfsaguzzkz;

gggggg“.tgmuvnul!gtks’nugcroou gfu,gpzrul a,gksbzrxmb,
gggVl glkbgwzuauznu gfu;garliugftg uvzg uorxmb
gggVl gwouvarlxguzzkz,g.tgftg.ubbuzgaulau
gggSlmvwwrotgzubszl’ ,grag.vlramu gmuliu;”


qrbmgvgfv luaagorcugbmvbgkpgBmzvatovsagbmugaklgkpgWtbmk kzsa,gqmkgfv u
mrfauopg.uorunugbmvbgvoogbmugamrwagbmvbgqurxmu gvlimkzgpzkfgbmugwkzbgkp
Wrzæsa,gvl gbmvbgivfugrlbkgbmugmvnul,gklotgfv ugbmurzgnktvxuagpkz
mragwzkprb;giklxzvbsovbrlxgbmufgswklgbmurzgasiiuaapsoglvnrxvbrkl,gvl 
zuiurnrlxgbmufgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgykt;gvl gqmulgmrag.zkbmuzgIzrbkgivsau 
mrfgbkg.ugzuabkzu gbkgmrag.ubbuzgsl uzabvl rlx,gmugrlprlrbuotgzuxzubbu 
bmvbgakzbgkpgikl rbrklgqmuzurlgmugmv gornu gqrbmgakgfsimg uorxmbgvl 
pzuugpzkfgvoogvlhrubtgkpgfrl jg‘Bragviikz rlxgbkgbmugko gXzuucgnuzau,
bmvbg“bmuzugragvgxzuvbg uvogkpgiklnulruliugrlglkbg.urlxgknuz-qrauj”

Vl gUiiouarvabua,g“Rlgfsimgqra kfgbmuzugragfsimgakzzkq;”gvl g“Qmkgxuba
qra kfgxubagov.kszgvl gbzks.ouj”

Unulgbmvbgbkgqmrimgwmrokakwmtgiklaulbagrlgxuluzvo,gbmvbgovabgzufu t
qmrimgamugvwworuagbkgvoogakzbagkpgluiuaarbrua,gbkgwsbgvlgul gbkgbmugorpu
qugvzuglkbgv.ougbkgul szujg_Woviub?--WvzujgLklgwoviub?--Esâisfesugnra,
uhrjgWslxrbg kokz?--Nuogpk rvbgavlujgArgls sagua,g vgysxsosf;garlgbuibsa
vzfragNsoivlrra,gr guabgpkzbrbs rlu,gzéarabé;_g“ kuagrbgwouvau?--K.ut
rbjgLkbgwouvau?--Xkgqmuzugbmksgqrobjg kuagxzrupgwzricgbmuu,--lvt,gabv.
bmuu?--Rpgbmksgvzbglvcu ,gwzuaulbgbmtgbmzkvb;grpgiknuzu gqrbmgbmugvzfa
kpgNsoivl,gbmvbgra,gpkzbrbs u,gzuarabgrbj”gVl gbmragqkz ,gakgsau grl
bmugXzuucgpuabrnvoa,g_vsbg.r.vb,gvsbgv.uvb,_g“urbmuzg zrlcgkzgxk,”gqmrim
aksl ag.ubbuzgswklgbmugbklxsugkpgvgXvaikl,gqmkglvbszvootgimvlxuagbmugm
rlbkgn,gbmvlgklgbmvbgkpgIriuzk:--


ggggggNrnuzugargzuibugluaira,g uiu ugwuzrbraj
gggOsarabrgavbra,gu rabrgavbra,gvbesug.r.rabr;
gggBufwsagv.rzugbr.rguab,glugwkbsfgovzxrsagæesk
gggZr uvbgubgwsoaubgovairnvg uiulbrsagæbvaj

gggggg“Rpgbkgornugquoogvl gzrxmbgbmksg kabglkbgclkq,
gggXrnugqvt,gvl gouvnugbmtgwoviugbkgbmkaugbmvbg kj
gggBmks’abguvbul,g zslc,gvl gwovt’ gbkgbmtgiklbulb,
ggg‘Bragbrfugbkgfvcugbmtgwvzbrlxgikfworfulb,
gggOuabgtksbm,gfkzug uiulbgrlgbmurzgpkoorua,gaikpp
gggBmuglvsauksagaiulu,gvl gmraagbmuugzuuorlxgkpp;”


Qmvbgragrbgkbmuzgbmvlgvgiklpuaarklgkpgmragrfwkbulit,gvl gvgaul rlxg.vic
lkbgklotgbkgrxlkzvliu,gbkg.ugbmuzugrlgavpubt,g.sbgunulgbkgabswr rbt,
rlaular.rorbt,gvl glklulbrbt?


gggggg ufkizrbsfgwkabesvfgfvbszvgnubsabva
gggV fklsrbgfufkzufgfkbsagovlxsuaiuzugfulbra;
gggAwklbugasvgoubmkgivwsbgk.nrsagk.bsorbgrwauj

gggggg“Akklgva,gbmzksxmgvxu,g ufkizrbsag r gprl 
gggVgfvlrpuabg uiv uliugrlgmragfrl ,
gggMugbmksxmbgmuglkqgasznrn’ gbkgmragkqlgqzklx,
gggVl gqulbgbkgfuubgmrag uvbm,gbmvbgabvt’ gbkkgoklxj”


‘BragqmvbgVlbrabmuluagavr ,g“Bmvbgvgfvlgamkso gurbmuzgfvcugwzknrarkl
kpgaulaugbkgsl uzabvl ,gkzgkpgvgmvobuzgbkgmvlxgmrfauop;”gvl gqmvb
Imztarwwsagvoouxu gswklgbmragavtrlxgkpgbmugwkubgBtzbæsa:--


ggg“Kzgbkgvzzrnugvbgnrzbsugkzgvbg uvbm;”


vl gIzvbuagavr ,g“Bmvbgoknugqkso g.ugiszu g.tgmslxuz,grpglkbg.tgbrfu;
vl gqmkunuzg raorcu gbmuaugbqkgzufu rua,g.tgvgzkwuj”gBmvbgAuhbrsa,gkp
qmkfg.kbmgAuluivgvl gWosbvzimgawuvcgqrbmgakgmrxmgvlgulikfrsf,gmvnrlx
vwworu gmrfauop,gvoogkbmuzgbmrlxagaubgvar u,gbkgbmugabs tgkpgwmrokakwmt,
zuakonu gbkgbmzkqgmrfauopgrlbkgbmugauv,gauurlxgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmra
abs ruagbkkgbu rksagvl gaokqjgMugzvlgbkgprl g uvbm,garliugmugikso glkb
knuzbvcugclkqou xujgBmuaugvzugbmugqkz agkpgbmugovqgswklgbmugas.yuib:
“Rpgwuzv nulbszugakfugxzuvbgrliklnulruliugmvwwul,gpkzgqmrimgbmuzugraglk
zufu t,gbmugmvnulgragluvz,gvl gvgfvlgfvtgavnugmrfauopg.tgaqrffrlxgksb
kpgmrag.k tgvagksbgkpgvgouvctgacrpp;gpkzg‘bragbmugpuvzgkpg trlx,gvl glkb
bmugoknugkpgorpu,gbmvbgbruagbmugpkkogbkgmrag.k tj”

Vagorpugzul uzagrbauopg.tgarfworirbtgfkzugwouvavlb,gakgfkzugrllkiulb
vl g.ubbuz,gvoakgrbgzul uzagrbgvagRgqvagavtrlxg.upkzu:g“Bmugarfwou
vl grxlkzvlb,”gavtagAbjgWvso,g“zvraugbmufauonuagswgbkgmuvnulgvl gbvcu
wkaauaarklgkpgrb;gvl gqu,gqrbmgvoogkszgclkqou xu,gwoslxugkszauonuagrlbk
bmugrlpuzlvogv.taaj”gRgvfglurbmuzgaqvtu g.tgNvoulbrlrvl,gvgwzkpuaau 
uluftgbkgvoogouvzlrlxgvl goubbuza,glkzg.tgOrirlrsa,g.kbmgZkfvlgufwuzkza,
qmkgivoou gbmufgbmugwkraklgvl gwuabgkpgvoogwkorbrivogxknuzlfulb;glkzg.t
Fvmkfub,gqmk,gvag‘bragavr ,grlbuz ribu gvoogfvlluzgkpgouvzlrlxgbkgmra
pkookquza;g.sbgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmugxzuvbgOtiszxsa,gvl gmragvsbmkzrbt,
qrbmgbmugzunuzuliugkpgbmug rnrlugOviu ufklrvlgwkorit,gakgxzuvb,gak
v frzv.ou,gvl gakgoklxgpokszramrlxgrlgnrzbsugvl gmvwwrluaa,gqrbmksbgvlt
rlabrbsbrklgkzgwzvibriugkpgoubbuza,gksxmbgiuzbvrlotgbkg.ugkpgnuztgxzuvb
qurxmbjgAsimgvagzubszlgpzkfgbmugluqgqkzo g raiknuzu g.tgbmugAwvlrvz a
rlgkszgpvbmuza’g vta,gbuabrptgbkgsagmkqgfsimgfkzugmkluabotgvl gzuxsovzot
bmkauglvbrklagornu,gqrbmksbgfvxrabzvbugvl gqrbmksbgovq,gbmvlgkszag k,
qmuzugbmuzugvzugfkzugkppriuzagvl govqtuzagbmvlgbmuzugvzugkpgkbmuzgakzba
kpgfulgvl g.sarluaa:--


gggggg rgirbbvbkzrugwrulu,gug rgor.uoor,
ggg ’uavfrlu,gug rgivzbug rgwzkiszu,
gggMvllkgougfvlrgugrogaulk,gugxzvlgpvabuoor
ggg rgimrkxu,g rgiklarxor,gubg rgoubbszu:
gggWuzgisrgougpvisobvg u*gwknuzuoor
gggLklgaklkgfvrgluoougirbbàgariszu;
gggMvllkg rubzkgug rlvldr,gug ’vf.rgrgovbr,
gggLkbvr,gwzkiszvbkzr,gu gvnnkivbrj

gggggg“Bmurzg.vxagquzugpsoogkpgqzrba,gvl gkpgirbvbrkla,
gggKpgwzkiuaa,gvl gkpgvibrklagvl gvzzuaba,
gggKpg.rooa,gkpgvlaquza,gvl gkpgzuworivbrkla,
gggRlgikszbagkpg uouxvbua,gvl gkpgzuesuaba,
gggBkgxzrunugbmugarfwougakzbgqrbmgxzuvbgnuhvbrkla;
gggBmutgmv gzuakzbrlxgbkgbmufgvagbmurzgxsuaba,
gggVbbul rlxgklgbmurzgirzisrb,gvl gbmurzgykszluta,
gggAizrn’luza,gvl giouzca,gvl govqtuza,gvl gvbbkzlutaj”


RbgqvagqmvbgvgZkfvlgaulvbkzgkpgbmugovbbuzgvxuagavr ,gbmvbgbmurz
wzu uiuaakza’g.zuvbmgabslcgkpgxvzori,g.sbgbmurzgabkfvimagquzugwuzpsfu 
qrbmgvgxkk giklairuliu;gvl gbmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmkaugkpgmragbrfu
quzugvoogaquubgk kszgqrbmksb,g.sbgabslcgqrbmrlgkpgvoogakzbagkpgnriua;
bmvbgragbkgavt,gvagRgrlbuzwzubgrb,gbmvbgbmutgv.ksl u gqrbmgouvzlrlx
vl guokesuliu,g.sbgquzugnuztg upuibrnugrlgfkzvogmkluabtjgRlirnrorbt,
rxlkzvliu,garfworirbt,gzksxmluaa,gvzugbmuglvbszvogikfwvlrklagkp
rllkiuliu;giszrkarbt,gas.boubt,gclkqou xu,g.zrlxgfvoriugrlgbmurzgbzvrl;
msfrorbt,gpuvz,gk.u ruliu,gvl gvppv.rorbt,gqmrimgvzugbmugwzrlirwvo
bmrlxagbmvbgaswwkzbgvl gfvrlbvrlgmsfvlgakirubt,gzuesrzugvlgufwbtgvl 
 kirougakso,gvl gorbbougwzuasfrlxgswklgrbauopj

Imzrabrvlagmvnugvgwvzbrisovzgclkqou xu,gmkqglvbszvogvl gkzrxrlvogvlgunro
iszrkarbtgragrlgfvl;gbmugbmrzabgkpgclkqou xu,gvl gbmug uarzugbk
.uikfugfkzugqrau,gqvagbmugprzabgzsrlgkpgfvl,gvl gbmugqvtg.tgqmrimgmu
wzuirwrbvbu gmrfauopgrlbkgubuzlvog vflvbrkljgWzr ugqvagmragzsrlgvl 
ikzzswbrkljg‘Bragwzr ugbmvbg rnuzbagmrfgpzkfgbmugikffklgwvbm,gvl gfvcua
mrfguf.zviuglknuobrua,gvl gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg.ugmuv gkpgvgbzkkw,gokabgvl 
qvl uzrlxgrlgbmugwvbmgkpguzzkz;gbkg.ugvgfvabuzgvl gvgbuvimuzgkpgorua,
bmvlgbkg.ugvg rairwougrlgbmugaimkkogkpgbzsbm,gasppuzrlxgmrfauopgbkg.u
ou gvl gxsr u g.tgbmugmvl gkpgvlkbmuz,grlgbmugzrxmbgvl g.uvbul
zkv jg‘Bra,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmugfuvlrlxgkpgbmragko gXzuucgavtrlx,gbmvb
aswuzabrbrklgpkookqagwzr u,gvl gk.utagrbgvagrpgrbgquzugvgpvbmuz:
[--Xzuuc--]gVm,gwzuasfwbrkl,gmkqgfsimg kabgbmksgmrl uzgsa?

VpbuzgbmvbgAkizvbuagqvagbko gbmvbgbmugxk gkpgqra kfgmv gvaarxlu gbkgmrf
bmugbrbougkpgavxu,gmugqvagvabklramu gvbgrb,gvl ,gauvzimrlxgvl guhvfrlrlx
mrfauopgbmzksxmksb,gikso gprl glkgpksl vbrklgpkzgbmrag rnrlugys xfulbj
Mugcluqgkbmuzagvagysab,gbufwuzvbu,gnvorvlb,gvl gouvzlu ,gvagmrfauop;gvl 
fkzuguokesulb,gfkzugmvl akfu,gvl gfkzugwzkprbv.ougbkgbmurzgikslbztgbmvl
mujgVbgovabgmugiklios u gbmvbgmugqvaglkbg rabrlxsramu gpzkfgkbmuza,glkz
qrau,g.sbgklotg.uivsaugmug r glkbgbmrlcgmrfauopgak;gvl gbmvbgmragXk 
iklar uzu gbmugkwrlrklgkpgclkqou xugvl gqra kfgvagvgarlxsovzgv.asz rbt
rlgfvl;gvl gbmvbgmrag.uabg kibzrlugqvagbmug kibzrlugkpgrxlkzvliu,gvl 
arfworirbtgmrag.uabgqra kfjgBmugavizu gqkz g uiovzuagbmkaugfrauzv.ou
vfklxgsagqmkgmvnugvlgkwrlrklgkpgbmufauonua:g“ sabgvl gvamua,”gavtagrb
bkgasim,g“qmvbgmvabgbmksgqmuzurlgbkgxokzrptgbmtauop?”gVl ,grlgvlkbmuz
woviu,g“Xk gmvagfv ugfvlgorcugslbkgvgamv kq,”gkpgqmkfgqmkgivlgys xu,
qmulg.tgzufknrlxgbmugorxmbgrbgamvoog.ugnvlramu !gFvlgragvgbmrlxgkp
lkbmrlxj

Kszgpkziugragakgpvzgpzkfg.urlxgv.ougbkgikfwzumul gbmug rnrlugmurxmb,
bmvb,gkpgbmugqkzcagkpgkszgIzuvbkz,gbmkaug.uabg.uvzgmragfvzc,gvl gvzu
qrbmg.ubbuzgbrbougmra,gqmrimgqugbmugouvabgsl uzabvl jgBkgfuubgqrbmgvl
rlizu r.ougbmrlxgragvlgkiivarklgbkgImzrabrvlagbkg.uorunu;gvl grbgra
akgfsimgbmugfkzugviikz rlxgbkgzuvakl,g.tgmkqgfsimgrbgragvxvrlabgmsfvl
zuvakljgRpgrbgquzugviikz rlxgbkgzuvakl,grbgqkso g.uglkgfkzugvgfrzviou;
vl grpgrbgquzugviikz rlxgbkguhvfwou,grbgqkso g.uglkgoklxuzgvgarlxsovz
bmrlxjg_Fuorsagairbszg usaglua ul k_:g“Xk grag.ubbuzgclkqlg.tglkb
clkqrlxgmrf,”gavtagAbjgVsabrl:gvl gBvirbsa,g_Avlibrsaguabgvigzunuzulbrsa
 ugvibrag ukzsfgizu uzu,gesvfgairzu_;g“rbgragfkzugmkotgvl gzunuzulbgbk
.uorunugbmugqkzcagkpgXk gbmvlgbkgclkqgbmuf;”gvl gWovbkgbmrlcagbmuzugra
akfubmrlxgkpgrfwrubtgrlgrlesrzrlxgbkkgiszrksaotgrlbkgXk ,gbmugqkzo ,
vl gbmugprzabgivsauagkpgbmrlxa:g_Vbesugroosfgesr ufgwvzulbufgmsysa
slrnuzarbvrragrlnulrzu,g rpprirou;gub,gessfgyvfgrlnuluzra,grl rivzugrl
nsoxbra,glupva_:g“bkgprl gksbgbmugwvzulbgkpgbmugqkzo gragnuztg rpprisob;
vl gqmulgpksl gksb,gbkgzunuvogmrfgbkgbmugnsoxvzgragarl,”gavtagIriuzkjgQu
bvocgrl uu gkpgwkquz,gbzsbm,gysabriu;gqmrimgvzugqkz agbmvbgarxlrptgakfu
xzuvbgbmrlx;g.sbgbmvbgbmrlxgquglurbmuzgauuglkzgikliurnugvbgvoojgQugavt
bmvbgXk gpuvza,gbmvbgXk gragvlxzt,gbmvbgXk goknua,


gggRffkzbvorvgfkzbvorgauzfkluglkbvlbua:

ggg“Xrnrlxgbkgbmrlxagrffkzbvogfkzbvoglvfuaj”


Bmuaugvzugvoogvxrbvbrklagvl gufkbrklagbmvbgivllkbg.ugrlgXk ,gviikz rlx
bkgkszgpkzf,glkzgivlgqugrfvxrlugbmuf,gviikz rlxgbkgmrajgRbgklotg.uoklxa
bkgXk gbkgclkqgmrfauop,gvl gbkgrlbuzwzubgmragkqlgqkzca;gvl gmug kuagrb
rlgkszgovlxsvxu,gxkrlxgksbgkpgmrfauop,gbkgabkkwgbkgsagqmkgxzknuogswkl
bmuguvzbmjgMkqgivlgwzs uliu,gqmrimgragbmugimkriug.ubquulgxkk gvl gunro,
.ugwzkwuzotgvbbzr.sbu gbkgmrfgqmkfglkgunrogivlgbksim?gMkqgivlgzuvakl
vl grlbuoorxuliu,gqmrimgqugfvcugsaugkp,gbkgvzzrnug.tgk.aiszugvbgvwwvzulb
bmrlxa;gauurlxgbmvbglkbmrlxgragk.aiszugbkgmrf?gMkqgysabriu,gqmrim
 rabzr.sbuagbkgunuztgklugqmvbgvwwuzbvrlagbkgmrf,gvgbmrlxg.uxkbg.tgbmu
akirubtgvl gikffslrbtgkpgful,gmkqgragbmvbgrlgXk ?gMkqgbufwuzvliu,gqmrim
ragbmugfk uzvbrklgkpgikzwkzvogwouvaszua,gbmvbgmvnuglkgwoviugrlgbmu
 rnrlrbt?gPkzbrbs ugbkgaswwkzbgwvrl,gov.ksz,gvl g vlxuza,gvagorbbou
vwwuzbvrlagbkgmrfgvagbmugzuab;gbmuaugbmzuugbmrlxagmvnuglkgviiuaagbk
mrfjgPkzgqmrimgzuvaklgVzrabkbougmko agmrfguesvootguhufwbgpzkfgnrzbsu
vl gnriu:g_Luesugxzvbrv,gluesugrzvgbuluzrgwkbuab;gesk geskgbvorvguaaulb,
rf.uiroovguaaulbgkflrv?_g“Mugivlglurbmuzg.ugvppuibu gqrbmgpvnkszglkz
rl rxlvbrkl,g.uivsaug.kbmgbmuaugvzugbmuguppuibagkpgpzvrobtj”

Bmugwvzbrirwvbrklgqugmvnugrlgbmugclkqou xugkpgbzsbm,gasimgvagrbgra,
raglkbgviesrzu g.tgkszgkqlgpkziu:gXk gmvagaspprirulbotgxrnulgsagbk
sl uzabvl gbmvb,g.tgbmugqrbluaauagmugmvagimkaulgksbgkpgbmugikffkl
wukwou,garfwougvl grxlkzvlbgful,gbmvbgmugmvag.uulgwouvau gbkgufwokt
bkgrlabzsibgsagrlgmragv frzv.ougauizubajgKszgpvrbmgraglkbgkpgksz
kqlgviesrzrlx;g‘bragwszuotgbmugxrpbgkpgvlkbmuz’ag.kslbt:g‘braglkbg.t
fu rbvbrkl,gkzg.tgnrzbsugkpgkszgkqlgsl uzabvl rlx,gbmvbgqugmvnu
viesrzu gkszgzuorxrkl,g.sbg.tgpkzurxlgvsbmkzrbtgvl gikffvl gqmuzurlgbmu
rf.uirorbtgkpgkszgkqlgys xfulbg kuagfkzugvaarabgsagbmvlgvltgpkziugkpgrb;
vl gkszg.orl luaagfkzugbmvlgkszgiouvzluaagkpgarxmb:g‘bragfkzug.t__gbmu
fu rvbrklgkpgkszgrxlkzvliugbmvlgkpgkszgclkqou xugbmvbgqugclkqgvltgbmrlx
kpgbmug rnrlugqra kfjg‘Braglkgqkl uzgrpgkszglvbszvogvl guvzbmotgwvzba
ivllkbgikliurnugbmvbgaswuzlvbszvogvl gmuvnulotgclkqou xu:goubgsag.zrlx
lkbmrlxgkpgkszgkql,g.sbgk.u ruliugvl gas.yuibrkl;gpkz,gvagrbgragqzrbbul,
“Rgqroog uabzktgbmugqra kfgkpgbmugqrau,gvl gqroog.zrlxgbkglkbmrlxgbmu
sl uzabvl rlxgkpgbmugwzs ulbjgQmuzugragbmugqrau?gQmuzugragbmugaizr.u?
Qmuzugragbmug rawsbuzgkpgbmragqkzo ?gMvbmglkbgXk gfv ugpkkoramgbmu
qra kfgkpgbmragqkzo ?gPkzgvpbuzgbmvb,grlgbmugqra kfgkpgXk ,gbmugqkzo 
cluqglkbgXk ,grbgwouvau gXk g.tgbmugpkkoramluaagkpgwzuvimrlxgbkgavnu
bmufgbmvbg.uorunuj”

Prlvoot,gamkso gRguhvfrlugqmubmuzgrbg.ugrlgbmugwkquzgkpgfvlgbkgprl gksb
bmvbgqmrimgmugauucagvl grpgbmvbgesuab,gqmuzurlgmugmvag.saru gmrfauopgak
fvltgvxua,gmvagulzrimu gmrfgqrbmgvltgluqgpkziu,gkzgvltgakor gbzsbm;gR
.uorunugmugqroogiklpuaa,grpgmugawuvcagpzkfgmragiklairuliu,gbmvbgvoo
mugmvagxkbg.tgakgoklxgrlesrztgragklotgbkgmvnugouvzlu gbkgclkqgmra
kqlgquvcluaajgQugmvnugklotg.tgvgoklxgabs tgiklprzfu gvl gnuzrpru gbmu
lvbszvogrxlkzvliugqugquzugrlg.upkzujgBmugavfugmvagpvooulgksbgbkgful
bzsotgqrau,gqmrimg.upvooagbmuguvzagkpgikzl;gbmutgamkkbgvl gzvraugbmurz
muv agmrxmgvl gwuzb,gqmroabgufwbt;g.sbgqmulgpsoogvl gaquoou gqrbmgxzvrl
rlgfvbszrbt,g.uxrlgbkgpovxgvl g zkkwjgAkgful,gmvnrlxgbzru gvl gaksl u 
voogbmrlxa,gvl gmvnrlxgpksl grlgbmvbgfvaagkpgclkqou xu,gvl gwzknrarklgkp
akgfvltgnvzrksagbmrlxa,glkbmrlxgakor gvl gprzf,gvl glkbmrlxg.sb
nvlrbt,gmvnugesrbbu gbmurzgwzuasfwbrkl,gvl gviclkqou xu gbmurzglvbszvo
ikl rbrkljg‘BragqmvbgNuooursagzuwzkvimuagIkbbvgqrbmvogvl gIriuzk,g“bmvb
bmutgmv gouvzlu gkpgWmrok,gbmvbgbmutgmv gouvzlu glkbmrlxj”gWmuzuit ua,
klugkpgbmugaunulgavxua,gqzrbrlxgbkgBmvouagswklgmrag uvbm-.u ;g“Rgmvnu,”
gavr gmu,g“xrnulgkz uzgbkgftgwukwou,gvpbuzgftgrlbuzfulb,gbkgivzztgft
qzrbrlxagbkgbmuujgRpgbmutgwouvaugbmuugvl gbmugkbmuzgavxua,gws.oram;grp
lkb,gaswwzuaagbmufjgBmutgiklbvrlglkgiuzbvrlbtgqrbmgqmrimgRgftauopgvf
avbrapru jgLurbmuzg kgRgwzubul gbkgclkqgbmugbzsbm,gkzgbkgvbbvrlgbkgrbj
Rgzvbmuzgkwulgbmvlg raiknuzgbmrlxaj”gBmugqrauabgfvlgbmvbgunuzgqva,g.urlx
vacu gqmvbgmugcluq,gfv ugvlaquz,g“Mugcluqgbmra,gbmvbgmugcluqglkbmrlxj”
g.tgqmrimgmugnuzrpru gqmvbgmvag.uulgavr ,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgqmvb
qugclkqgragbmugouvabgkpgqmvbgqug kglkb;gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmvbgunul
qmvbgqugbmrlcgqugclkqgrag.sbgvgwruiu,gvl gvgnuztgorbbougklu,gkpgksz
rxlkzvliujgQugclkqgbmrlxagrlg zuvfa,gavtagWovbk,gvl gvzugrxlkzvlbgkp
bmufgrlgbzsbmjg_Kzfuagwulugnubuzuaglrmrogikxlkair,glrmrogwuzirwr,
lrmrogairzrgwkaaug rhuzslb;gvlxsabkagaulasa,grf.uiroouagvlrfka,g.zunrv
iszzrisovgnrbkj_g“Vofkabgvoogbmugvlirulbagmvnug uiovzu gbmvbgbmuzugra
lkbmrlxgbkg.ugclkql,glkbmrlxgbkg.ugwuziurnu gkzgsl uzabkk ;gbmugaulaua
vzugbkkgorfrbu ,gful’agfrl agbkkgquvc,gvl gbmugikszaugkpgorpugbkkgamkzbj”
gVl gkpgIriuzkgmrfauop,gqmkgabkk grl u.bu gbkgmragouvzlrlxgpkzgvoogmu
qvagqkzbm,gNvouzrsagavta,g“Bmvbgmug.uxvlgbkg razuoramgoubbuzagrlgmragko 
vxu;gvl gqmulgvbgmragabs rua,grbgqvagqrbmgxzuvbgrl uwul ulitgswklgvlt
klugwvzbt;gpkookqrlxgqmvbgmugbmksxmbgwzk.v.ou,glkqgrlgklugauib,gvl 
bmulgrlgvlkbmuz,gunuzfkzugqvnuzrlxgsl uzgbmug ks.bagkpgbmugviv uftj”
g_ riul sfguab,gau grbvgsbglrmrogvpprzfulb,gesiuzvfgkflrv,g s.rbvla
wouzsfesu,gubgfrmrg rppr ulaj_g“AkfubmrlxgRgfsabgavt,g.sbgakgvagbk
vpprzfglkbmrlx;gRgrlesrzugrlbkgvoogbmrlxa,g.sbgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgrl
 ks.bgvl g rabzsabgkpgftauopj”

Rgamkso gmvnugbkkgpvrzgvgxvfugamkso gRgiklar uzgfvlgrlgmragikffklgqvtgkp
ornrlxgvl grlgxzkaa;gtubgRgfrxmbg kgrbg.tgmragkqlgzsou,gqmkgys xuagbzsbm
lkbg.tgqurxmb,g.sbg.tgbmuglsf.uzgkpgnkbuajgOubgsagaubgbmugwukwougvar u,


ggggggEsrgnrxrovlagabuzbrb,jjjj
gggFkzbsvgisrgnrbvguabgwzkwugyvfgnrnkgvbesugnr ulbr;

ggggg“Mvopgkpgmragorpug.tgovdtgaouuw’agwkaauaa’ ,
gggVl gqmulgvqvcugmragaksog.sbglk agvbg.uab;”


qmkglurbmuzgpuuoglkzgys xu,gvl goubgfkabgkpgbmurzglvbszvogpvisobruagoru
r ou;gRgqroogbvcugfvlgrlgmragmrxmuabgxzksl jgOubgsagiklar uzgmrfgrl
bmvbgorbbouglsf.uzgkpgful,guhiuooulbgvl gisoou gksbgpzkfgbmugzuab,gqmk,
mvnrlxg.uulgul kqu gqrbmgvgzufvzcv.ougvl gwvzbrisovzglvbszvogpkziu,gmvnu
fkzuknuzgmvz ulu gvl gqmubbu grbg.tgivzu,gabs t,gvl gvzb,gvl gzvrau 
rbgbkgbmugmrxmuabgwrbimgkpgqra kfgbkgqmrimgrbgivlgwkaar.otgvzzrnujgBmut
mvnugv ysabu gbmurzgaksoagbkgvoogqvtagvl gvoog.rvaua;gmvnugwzkwwu gvl 
aswwkzbu gbmufgqrbmgvoogpkzurxlgmuowagwzkwuzgpkzgbmuf,gvl gulzrimu gvl 
v kzlu gbmufgqrbmgvoogbmutgikso g.kzzkqgpkzgbmurzgv nvlbvxu,g.kbmgqrbmrl
vl gqrbmksbgbmugqkzo ;g‘bragrlgbmuaugragwoviu gbmugsbfkabgvl gfkab
aswzufugmurxmbgbkgqmrimgmsfvlglvbszugivlgvbbvrljgBmutgmvnugzuxsovbu 
bmugqkzo gqrbmgwkoriruagvl govqajgBmutgmvnugrlabzsibu grbgqrbmgvzbagvl 
airuliua,gvl g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmurzgv frzv.ougfvlluzajgRgamvoogfvcu
viikslbgkpglklug.sbgasimgfulgvagbmuau,gbmurzgbuabrfkltgvl guhwuzruliuj
Oubgsaguhvfrlugmkqgpvzgbmutgmvnugwzkiuu u ,gvl gqmuzugbmutgabkwwu jgBmu
uzzkzagvl g upuibagbmvbgqugamvoogprl gvfklxabgbmuaugfulgbmugqkzo gfvt
.ko otgvnkqgvagbmurzgkqlj

Qmkunuzgxkuagrlgauvzimgkpgvltgbmrlxgfsabgikfugbkgbmra,gurbmuzgbkgavt
bmvbgmugmvagpksl grb,gkzgbmvbgrbgraglkbgbkg.ugpksl ,gkzgbmvbgmugragtub
swklgbmugauvzimjgVoogwmrokakwmtgrag rnr u grlbkgbmuaugbmzuugcrl a;gmuz
 uarxlgragbkgauucgksbgbzsbm,gclkqou xu,gvl giuzbvrlbtjgBmugWuzrwvbubria,
Uwriszuvla,gAbkria,gvl gkbmuza,gmvnugbmksxmbgbmutgmvnugpksl grbjgBmuau
uabv.oramu gbmugairuliuagqugmvnu,gvl gmvnugbzuvbu gkpgbmufgvagkpgiuzbvrl
clkqou xujgIorbkfvimsa,gIvzluv ua,gvl gbmugViv ufria,gmvnug uawvrzu 
rlgbmurzgauvzim,gvl giklios u gbmvbgbzsbmgikso glkbg.ugikliurnu g.tgksz
sl uzabvl rlxajgBmugzuasobgkpgbmuaugragquvcluaagvl gmsfvlgrxlkzvliuj
Bmragauibgmvagmv gbmugfkabgvl gbmugfkabglk.ougpkookquzajgWtzzmk,gvl 
kbmuzgacuwbriagkzguwuimraba,gqmkaug kxfvagvzugmuo g.tgfvltgkpgbmu
vlirulbagbkg.ugbvculgpzkfgMkfuz,gbmugaunulgavxua,gvl gpzkfgVzimrokimsa
vl gUszrwr ua,gvl gbkgqmkauglsf.uzgbmuaugvzugv  u ,gDulk,g ufkizrbsa,
vl gHulkwmvlua,gavtgbmvbgbmutgvzugtubgswklgbmugrlesrztgvpbuzgbzsbmj
Bmuaugiklios ugbmvbgbmugkbmuza,gqmkgbmrlcgbmutgmvnugpksl grbgksb,gvzu
rlprlrbuotg uiurnu ;gvl gbmvbgrbgragbkkg vzrlxgvgnvlrbtgrlgbmugauikl 
akzbgbkg ubuzfrlugbmvbgmsfvlgzuvaklgraglkbgv.ougbkgvbbvrlgslbkgrb;
pkzgbmraguabv.oramrlxgvgabvl vz gkpgkszgwkquz,gbkgclkqgvl gys xugbmu
 rpprisobtgkpgbmrlxa,gragvgxzuvbgvl guhbzufugclkqou xu,gkpgqmrimgbmut
 ks.bgqmubmuzgfvlgragivwv.ou:--


ggggggLrogairzrgesraesragwsbvb,gr geskesugluairb,
gggVlgairzrgwkaarb;gesvfgauglrogairzugpvbubszj

gggggg“Mugbmvbgavtaglkbmrlxgivlg.ugclkql,gk’uzbmzkqa
gggMragkqlgkwrlrkl,gpkzgmuglkbmrlxgclkqa,
gggAkgclkqaglkbgbmvbj”


Bmugrxlkzvliugbmvbgclkqagrbauop,gys xuagvl gikl uflagrbauop,graglkbgvl
v.akosbugrxlkzvliu;gbkg.ugasim,grbgfsabg.ugrxlkzvlbgkpgrbauop;gakgbmvb
bmugwzkpuaarklgkpgbmugWtzzmklrvlagragbkgqvnuz,g ks.b,gvl grlesrzu,glkb
bkgfvcugbmufauonuagaszugkp,gkzgzuawklar.ougbkgbmufauonuagpkzgvlt
bmrlxjgKpgbmugbmzuugvibrklagkpgbmugakso,grfvxrlvbrnu,gvwwubrbrnu,gvl 
iklaulbrnu,gbmutgzuiurnugbmugbqkgprzab;gbmugovabgbmutgcuwbgvf.rxsksa,
qrbmksbgrliorlvbrklgkzgvwwzk.vbrkl,gurbmuzgkpgklugbmrlxgkzgvlkbmuz,
akgorxmbgvagrbgrajgDulkgzuwzuaulbu gbmugfkbrklgkpgmragrfvxrlvbrklgswkl
bmuaug rnrarklagkpgbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugaksogbmsa:g“Vlgkwulgvl guhwvl u 
mvl garxlrpru gvwwuvzvliu;gvgmvl gmvopgamsb,gvl gbmugprlxuzagvgorbbou
.ul rlx,giklaulb;gvgioulimu gprab,gikfwzumularkl;gqmulgqrbmgbmugoupb
mugtubgbmzsabgbmugzrxmbgprabgiokauz,gclkqou xuj”gLkqgbmragarbsvbrklgkp
bmurzgys xfulbgswzrxmbgvl grlpouhr.ou,gzuiurnrlxgvoogk.yuibagqrbmksb
vwworivbrklgkzgiklaulb,gouv agbmufgbkgbmurzgvbvzvht,gqmrimgragv
wuviuv.ougikl rbrklgkpgorpu,gbufwuzvbu,gvl guhufwbgpzkfgbmugvxrbvbrkla
qugzuiurnug.tgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgkwrlrklgvl gclkqou xugbmvbgqugbmrlcgqu
mvnugkpgbmrlxa;gqmuliugawzrlxgpuvz,gvnvzriu,gulnt,grffk uzvbug uarzua,
vf.rbrkl,gwzr u,gaswuzabrbrkl,goknugkpglknuobt,gzu.uoorkl,g rak.u ruliu,
k.abrlvit,gvl gbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpg.k rotgrooa;glvt,gvl g.tgbmvbgbmut
vzuguhufwbgpzkfgbmugyuvoksatgkpgbmurzg rairworlu;gpkzgbmutg u.vbugvpbuz
vgnuztgxulbougfvlluz;gbmutgpuvzglkgzuesrbvogrlgbmurzg rawsbua;gqmulgbmut
vpprzfgbmvbgmuvntgbmrlxag uaiul gbmutgqkso g.ugakzztgbkg.ug.uorunu ,
vl goknugbk.ugiklbzv ribu ,gbkgulxul uzg ks.bgvl gasawulaugkpgys xfulb,
qmrimgragbmurzgul jgBmutgklotgwsbgpkzqvz gbmurzgwzkwkarbrklagbk
iklbul gqrbmgbmkaugbmutgbmrlcgqugmvnugrlgkszg.uorupjgRpgtksgbvcugbmurz
vzxsfulba,gbmutgqroogvagzuv rotgfvrlbvrlgbmugiklbzvzt;g‘bragvoogklugbk
bmuf,gbmutgmvnuglkgimkriujgRpgtksgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgalkqgrag.ovic,gbmutgqroo
vzxsugklgbmugiklbzvztgbmvbgrbgragqmrbu;grpgtksgavtgrbgraglurbmuzgbmu
kluglkzgbmugkbmuz,gbmutgqroogfvrlbvrlgbmvbgrbgrag.kbmjgRpgtksgmko ,gkp
iuzbvrlgys xfulb,gbmvbgtksgclkqglkbmrlx,gbmutgqroogfvrlbvrlgbmvbgtksg kj
Tuv,gvl grpg.tgvlgvpprzfvbrnugvhrkfgtksgvaaszugbmufgbmvbgtksg ks.b,gbmut
qroogvzxsugvxvrlabgtksgbmvbgtksg ks.bglkb;gkzgbmvbgtksgivllkbgys xugvl 
 ubuzfrlugbmvbgtksg ks.bjgVl g.tgbmraguhbzufrbtgkpg ks.b,gqmrimgykaboua
rbauop,gbmutgauwvzvbugvl g rnr ugbmufauonuagpzkfgfvltgkwrlrkla,gunul
kpgbmkaugbmutgmvnugaunuzvogqvtagfvrlbvrlu ,g.kbmgikliuzlrlxg ks.bgvl 
rxlkzvliujg“Qmtgamvooglkbgbmutg.ugvookqu gbkg ks.b,”gavtgbmut,g“vagquoo
vagbmug kxfvbraba,gklugkpgqmkfgavtagxzuul,gvlkbmuzgtuookq?gIvlgvltgbmrlx
.ugwzkwkau gbkgsagbkgxzvlb,gkzg ult,gqmrimgrbgamvooglkbg.ugwuzfrbbu gbk
iklar uzgvagvf.rxsksa?”gVl gqmuzugkbmuzagvzugivzzru gvqvt,gurbmuzg.t
bmugisabkfgkpgbmurzgikslbzt,gkzg.tgbmugrlabzsibrklgkpgwvzulba,gkzg.t
viir ulb,gvag.tgvgbufwuab,gqrbmksbgys xfulbgvl gqrbmksbgimkriu,glvt,
vl gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbg.upkzugbmugvxugkpg raizubrkl,gbkgasimgvl gasim
vlgkwrlrkl,gbkgbmugauibgqmubmuzgAbkrigkzgUwriszuvl,gqrbmgqmrimgbmut
vzugwzuwkaauaau ,gulaovnu ,gvl gpvabg.ksl ,gvagbkgvgbmrlxgbmutgivllkb
pkzavcu:g_V gesvfisfesug rairworlvlb,gnuosbgbufwuabvbu,g uovbr,gv guvzl,
bvlesvfgv gavhsf,gv mkzuaislb;_g“unuztgklugiouvnuagbkgbmug kibzrlugmu
mvagmvwwulu gswkl,gvagbkgvgzkicgvxvrlabgqmrimgmugmvag.uulgbmzkqlg.t
bufwuab;”gqmtgamvooglkbgbmuaugorcuqraug.ugwuzfrbbu gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmurz
or.uzbt,gvl giklar uzgbmrlxagqrbmksbgk.orxvbrklgkzgaovnuzt?g_mki
or.uzrkzuagubgakosbrkzua,gesk grlbuxzvgrooraguabgys rivl rgwkbuabva_:
“rlgbmragfkzugsliklabzvrlu gvl gpzuu,g.uivsaugbmutgmvnugbmugxzuvbuz
wkquzgkpgys xrlxj”gRagrbglkbgkpgakfugv nvlbvxugbkg.ug raulxvxu gpzkfgbmu
luiuaarbtgbmvbgisz.agkbmuza?gRagrbglkbg.ubbuzgbkgzufvrlgrlgasawulaugbmvl
bkgulbvlxougklu’agauopgrlgbmugrllsfuzv.ouguzzkzagbmvbgmsfvlgpvlitgmva
wzk siu ?gRagrbglkbgfsimg.ubbuzgbkgasawul gklu’agwuzasvarklgbmvlgbk
rlbuzfu  ougqrbmgbmuaugqzvlxorlxgvl gau rbrksag rnrarkla:g“Qmvbgamvoo
Rgimkkau?”g“Qmvbgtksgwouvau,gwzknr u gtksgqroogimkkauj”gVgnuztgpkkoram
vlaquz;g.sbgasimgvgklu,glunuzbmuouaa,gvagvoog kxfvbrafgauufagbkgwkrlb
vb,gvl g.tgqmrimgqugvzuglkbgwuzfrbbu gbkg.ugrxlkzvlbgkpgqmvbgqugvzu
rxlkzvlbgkpj

Bvcugbmugfkabgufrlulbgar u,gbmvbgkpgbmugxzuvbuabgzuwsbvbrkl;grbgqroo
lunuzg.ugakgaszugbmvbgtksgamvooglkbg.ugpkziu gbkgvbbvicgvl giklbul gqrbm
vgmsl zu gvl gvgmsl zu gv nuzavzruagbkg upul grbjgRagrbglkbg.ubbuzgbk
cuuwgksbgkpgbmragmszot-.szot?gTksgvzugwuzfrbbu gbkguf.zviugVzrabkbou’a
kwrlrklagkpgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgbmugaksogqrbmgvagfsimgduvogvagtkszgmklksz
vl gorpu,gvl gbkgxrnugbmugorugbkgWovbkgbmuzuswkl,gvl gamvoogbmutg.u
rlbuz ribu gbkg ks.bgmrf?gRpgrbg.ugovqpsogpkzgWvlæbrsagbkgfvrlbvrl
mragkwrlrklgv.ksbgvsxszt,g zuvfa,gkzvioua,gnvbrirlvbrkla,gkpgqmrimgbmu
Abkriagfv uglkg ks.bgvbgvoo;gqmtgfvtglkbgvgqraugfvlg vzugbkg kgbmu
avfugrlgvoogbmrlxagbmvbgmug vzu gbkg kgrlgbmkaugmugmv gouvzlu gkpgmra
fvabuza,guabv.oramu g.tgbmugikffklgiklaulbgkpgbmugaimkko,gqmuzukpgmu
ragvgwzkpuaakzgvl gvgfuf.uz?gRpgrbg.ugvgimro gbmvbgys xua,gmugclkqaglkb
qmvbgrbgra;grpgvgqraugfvl,gmugragwzuwkaauaau jgBmutgmvnugzuauznu gpkz
bmufauonuagvgfvznuooksagv nvlbvxugrlg.vbbou,gmvnrlxguvau gbmufauonuagkp
bmugivzugkpg upuliujgRpgtksgabzrcugbmuf,gbmutgivzuglkb,gwzknr u 
bmutgabzrcugbkk,gvl gbmutgbszlgunuztgbmrlxgbkgbmurzgkqlgsaujgRpgbmut
knuzikfu,gtkszgvzxsfulbgragovfu;grpgtks,gbmurza;grpgbmutgpvoogamkzb,
bmutgnuzrptgrxlkzvliu;grpgtksgpvoogamkzb,gtksg kgrb;grpgbmutgwzknugbmvb
lkbmrlxgragclkql,g‘bragquoo;grpgbmutgivllkbgwzknugrb,g‘bragvoakgquoo:
_Sbgesszlgrlguv ufgzugwvzrvgiklbzvzrragrlgwvzbr.sagfkfulbvgrlnulrslbsz,
pvirorsagv.gsbzvesugwvzbugvaauzbrkgasabrluvbsz:_g“Bmvbgqmulgorcu
aulbrfulbagmvwwulg_wzk_gvl g_ikl_grlgbmugavfugbmrlx,gbmugvaaulbgfvtgkl
.kbmgar uag.ugfkzuguvarotgasawul u j”gVl gbmutgfvcugviikslbgbkgprl gksb,
qrbmgfsimgxzuvbuzgpvirorbt,gqmtgvgbmrlxgragpvoau,gbmvlgqmtg‘bragbzsu;
bmvbgqmrimgraglkb,gbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgra;gvl gqmvbgbmutg kglkbg.uorunu,
bmvlgqmvbgbmutg kjgBmurzgqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgra:g“Rgvaauzbglkbmrlx;grbgraglk
fkzugakgbmvlgak,gkzgbmvlglurbmuzgkluglkzgb’kbmuz;gRgsl uzabvl grbglkbj
Vwwuvzvliuagvzugunuztqmuzuguesvo;gbmugovqgkpgawuvcrlx,g_wzk_gkzg_ikl_,
ragbmugavfujgLkbmrlxgauufagbzsu,gbmvbgfvtglkbgauufgpvoauj”gBmurz
avizvfulbvogqkz gragbmvbgragbkgavt,g“Rgmko ,gRgabrzglkbj”gBmragragbmu
.sz ulgkpgbmurzgaklx,gvl gkbmuzagkpgorcugabsppjgBmuguppuibgkpgqmrimgra
vgwszu,gulbrzu,gwuzpuib,gvl gv.akosbugasawularklgkpgys xfulbjgBmutgfvcu
saugkpgbmurzgzuvaklgbkgrlesrzugvl g u.vbu,g.sbglkbgbkgprhgvl g ubuzfrluj
Qmkunuzgamvoogrfvxrlugvgwuzwubsvogiklpuaarklgkpgrxlkzvliu,gvgys xfulb
qrbmksbg.rva,gwzkwularkl,gkzgrliorlvbrkl,gswklgvltgkiivarklgqmvbunuz,
ikliurnuagvgbzsugr uvgkpgWtzzmklrafjgRguhwzuaagbmragpvlitgvagquoogva
Rgivl,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgfvltgprl grbgmvz gbkgikliurnu,gvl gbmugvsbmkza
bmufauonuagzuwzuaulbgrbgvgorbbougnvzrksaotgvl gk.aiszuotj

Vagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagbmugvibrklagkpgorpu,gbmutgvzugrlgbmragkpgbmu
ikffklgpvamrkljgBmutgtruo gvl gxrnugswgbmufauonuagbkgbmurzglvbszvo
rliorlvbrkla,gbkgbmugwkquzgvl grfwsoaugkpgwvaarkla,gbkgbmugiklabrbsbrkl
kpgovqagvl gisabkfa,gvl gbkgbmugbzv rbrklgkpgvzba;g_Lklgulrfglkag usa
rabvgairzu,gau gbvlbsffk kgsbr,gnkosrbj_g“PkzgXk gqkso glkbgmvnugsa
clkq,g.sbgklotgsaugbmkaugbmrlxaj”gBmutgasppuzgbmurzgkz rlvztgvibrklagbk
.ugxsr u g.tgbmkaugbmrlxa,gqrbmksbgvltg rawsbugkzgys xfulbjgPkz
qmrimgzuvaklgRgivllkbgiklaulbgbkgqmvbgragavr gkpgWtzzmk,g.tgbmkau
qmkgzuwzuaulbgmrfgmuvntgvl grffknv.ou,gouv rlxgvgcrl gkpgavnvxugvl 
slakirv.ougorpu,gabvl rlxgbmugykabougkpgivzba,gxkrlxgswklgbmugu xugkp
wzuirwriua,gvl gzupsarlxgbkgviikffk vbugmrfauopgbkgbmugovqajgBmragragbk
ulmvliugswklgmrag rairworlu;gmugqkso glunuzgfvcugmrfauopgvgabkicgkz
vgabklu,gmugqkso gamkqgmrfauopgvgornrlxgfvl,g raikszarlx,gzuvaklrlx,
ulyktrlxgvoogzuvaklv.ougiklnulruliuagvl gwouvaszua,gufwoktrlxgvl gfvcrlx
saugkpgvoogmragikzwkzvogvl gawrzrbsvogpvisobruagrlgzsougvl gzuvaklj
Bmugpvlbvabri,grfvxrlvzt,gvl gpvoaugwzrnrouxuagbmvbgfvlgmv gsaszwu 
kpgokz rlxgrb,gkz vrlrlx,gvl guabv.oramrlx,gmugmvagsbbuzotgesrbbu gvl 
zulksliu jgTubgbmuzugraglkgauibg.sbgragiklabzvrlu gbkgwuzfrbgmuzgavxugbk
pkookqgaunuzvogbmrlxaglkbgikfwzumul u ,gwuziurnu ,gkzgiklaulbu gbk,grp
mugfuvlagbkgornujgVl grpgmugxkuagbkgauv,gmugpkookqagbmvbg uarxl,glkb
clkqrlxgqmubmuzgmragnktvxugamvoog.ugasiiuaapsogkzglk;gvl gklotgrlaraba
swklgbmugbrxmbluaagkpgbmugnuaauo,gbmuguhwuzruliugkpgbmugwrokb,gvl gbmu
iklnulruliugkpgbmugauvakl,gvl gasimgwzk.v.ougirzisfabvliua;gvpbuzgqmrim
mugrag.ksl gbkgxk,gvl gasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugxknuzlu g.tgvwwuvzvliua,
wzknr u gbmuzug.uglkguhwzuaagvl gfvlrpuabgiklbzvzrubtgrlgbmufjgMugmvagv
.k t,gmugmvagvgakso;gbmugaulauagwsamgbmuf,gbmugfrl gawszagbmufgkljgVl 
vobmksxmgmug kuaglkbgprl grlgmrfauopgbmragwzkwuzgvl garlxsovzgarxlgkp
ys xrlx,gvl gbmvbgmugwuziurnuagbmvbgmugksxmbglkbgbkgulxvxugmra
iklaulb,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgbmuzugfvtg.ugakfugpvoau,guesvogbkgbmuaugbzsu
vwwuvzvliua,gtubg kuagmuglkb,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gpvrogkpgivzztrlxgklgbmu
kppriuagkpgmragorpugqrbmgxzuvbgor.uzbtgvl giklnulruliujgMkqgfvltgvzba
vzugbmuzugbmvbgwzkpuaagbkgiklarabgfkzugrlgiklyuibszugbmvlgclkqou xu;
bmvbg uir uglkbgklgbzsugvl gpvoau,gvl gklotgpkookqgbmvbgqmrimgauufagak!
Bmuzugvzu,gavtgbmut,gbzsugvl gpvoau,gvl gqugmvnugrlgsagqmuzuqrbmgbkgauuc
rb;g.sbglkbgbkgfvcugrbgabvtgqmulgqugbksimgrbjgQugvzugfsimgfkzugwzs ulb,
rlgoubbrlxgkszauonuag.ugzuxsovbu g.tgbmugkz uzgkpgbmugqkzo ,gqrbmksb
rlesrztjgVgaksogiouvzgpzkfgwzuys riugmvagvgfvznuooksagv nvliugbkqvz a
bzvlesroorbtgvl gzuwkaujgFulgbmvbgys xugvl giklbzkogbmurzgys xua,g k
lunuzg sotgas.frbgbkgbmufj

Mkqgfsimgfkzug kirougvl guvatgbkg.ugxknuzlu ,g.kbmg.tgbmugovqagkp
zuorxrklgvl girnrogwkorbt,gvzugarfwougvl grliszrksagfrl a,gbmvlgbmkau
knuz-nrxrovlbgqrba,gbmvbgqroogabroog.ugwzvbrlxgkpg rnrlugvl gmsfvl
ivsaua!gBmuzugraglkbmrlxgrlgmsfvlgrlnulbrklgbmvbgivzzruagakgxzuvbgvgamkq
kpgorcuormkk gvl gsbrorbtgvagbmra;gbmragwzuaulbagfvl,glvcu gvl gufwbt,
iklpuaarlxgmraglvbszvogquvcluaa,gprbgbkgzuiurnugakfugpkzurxlgpkziugpzkf
v.knu,gslpszlramu gkpgmsfvl,gvl gbmuzupkzugfkzugvwbgbkgzuiurnugrlbkgmrf
bmug rnrlugclkqou xu,gfvcrlxglksxmbgkpgmragkqlgys xfulb,gbkgxrnugfkzu
zkkfgbkgpvrbm;glurbmuzg ra.uorunrlxglkzguabv.oramrlxgvltg kxfvgvxvrlab
ikffklgk.auznvliua;gmsf.ou,gk.u rulb,g rairworlv.ou,gvl gabs rksa;gv
aqkzlguluftgkpgmuzuat;gvl giklauesulbotgpzuurlxgmrfauopgpzkfgnvrlgvl 
rzzuorxrksagkwrlrkla,grlbzk siu g.tgpvoaugauibajg‘Bragvg.ovlcgwvwuz
wzuwvzu gbkgzuiurnugasimgpkzfagpzkfgbmugprlxuzgkpgXk gvagmugamvoogwouvau
bkgqzrbugswklgrbjgBmugfkzugqugzuarxlgvl gikffrbgkszauonuagbkgXk ,gvl 
bmugfkzugqugzulksliugkszauonua,gkpgbmugxzuvbuzgnvosugqugvzujg“Bvcugrl
xkk gwvzb,”gavtagUiiouarvabua,g“bmugbmrlxagbmvbgwzuaulbgbmufauonuagbk
bmuu,gvagbmutgauufgvl gbvabugpzkfgmvl gbkgfksbm;gbmugzuabgragksbgkpgbmt
clkqou xuj”g_ kfrlsaglknrbgikxrbvbrkluagmkfrlsf,gesklrvfgnvlægaslb_:
“BmugOkz gclkqubmgbmugmuvzbagkpgful,gbmvbgbmutgvzug.sbgnvlrbtj”

Bmsagqugauugbmvbgkpgbmugbmzuugxuluzvogauibagkpgwmrokakwmt,gbqkgfvcugkwul
wzkpuaarklgkpg ks.bgvl grxlkzvliu;gvl grlgbmvbgkpgbmug kxfvbraba,gqmrim
ragbmugbmrz ,grbgraguvatgbkg raiknuzgbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgbmufgklot
vaasfugbmragpviugkpgiklpr uliugvl gvaaszvliugbmvb

bmutgfvtgwzk siugbmug.ubbuzguppuib;gbmutgmvnuglkbgakgfsimgbmksxmb
bkguabv.oramgvltgiuzbvrlbtgpkzgsa,gvagbkgamkqgsagmkqgpvzgbmutgmvnu
wzkiuu u grlgbmurzgauvzimgkpgbzsbm:g_Esvfg kibrgyrlxslbgfvxragesvf
lôzslb_:g“Qmrimgbmugouvzlu gzvbmuzgpurxlgbmvlgclkqj”gBrfæsa,g.urlx
bkgrlabzsibgAkizvbuagrlgqmvbgmugcluqgkpgbmugxk a,gbmugqkzo ,gvl gful,
wzkwkauagbkgawuvcgbkgmrfgvagvgfvlgbkgvgfvl;gvl gbmvbgrbgragaspprirulb,
rpgmragzuvaklagvzugwzk.v.ougvagbmkaugkpgvlkbmuz;gpkzgbmvbguhvib
zuvaklagquzuglurbmuzgrlgmraglkzgvltgkbmuzgfkzbvogmvl ;gqmrimgklugkp
mragpkookquzagmvagbmsagrfrbvbu :g_Sbgwkbuzk,guhworiv.k:gluigbvful,gsb
WtbmrsagVwkook,giuzbvgsbgarlbgubgprhvgesæg rhuzk;gau ,gsbgmkfslisosa,
wzk.v.rorvgiklyuibszâgauesula:_g“Rgqroo,gvagquoogvagRgvfgv.ou,guhwovrl;
vpprzfrlx,gtubglkbgvagbmugWtbmrvlgkzviou,gbmvbgqmvbgRgavtgragprhu gvl 
iuzbvrl,g.sbgorcugvgfuzugfvl,gbmvbgpkookqagwzk.v.rorbruag.tgiklyuibszuj”
gVl gbmra,gswklgbmuglvbszvogvl gikffklgas.yuibgkpgbmugiklbufwbgkpg uvbm;
mugmvaguoauqmuzugbzvlaovbu gpzkfgbmugnuztgqkz agkpgWovbk:g_Argpkzbu,g u
 ukzsfglvbszâgkzbsesugfsl rg raauzulbua,gfrlsagr gesk gmv.ufrragrlgvlrfk
iklauesr-fsz,gmvs guzrbgfrzsf;gkessfguabgulrfgfufrlraau,gubgfu,gesr
 raauzvf,gmkfrlufguaau,gubgnka,gesrgys riubra,gsb,gargwzk.v.rorv
 riulbsz,glrmrogsobzvgzuesrzvbra?_g“Rpgwuzimvliu,gqmulgqug raikszau
kpgbmuglvbszugkpgXk ,gvl gbmugqkzo ’agkzrxrlvo,gqugivllkbg kgrbgvagqu
 uarzu,grbgqroog.uglkgxzuvbgqkl uzjgPkzgrbgragysabgtksgamkso gzufuf.uz
bmvbg.kbmgRgqmkgawuvcgvl gtksgqmkgvzugbkgys xu,gvzugful;gakgbmvbgrp
wzk.v.ougbmrlxagvzug uornuzu ,gtksgamvoogzuesrzugvl guhwuibglkgfkzuj”
gVzrabkbougkz rlvzrotgmuvwagswgvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgkbmuzgful’agkwrlrklagvl 
.uorupa,gbkgikfwvzugbmufgqrbmgmragkql,gvl gbkgoubgsagauugmkqgfsimgmugmva
xklug.utkl gbmuf,gvl gmkqgfsimgluvzuzgmugvwwzkvimuagbkgbmugorcuormkk gkp
bzsbm;gpkzgbzsbmgraglkbgbkg.ugys xu g.tgbmugvsbmkzrbtgvl gbuabrfklt
kpgkbmuza;gqmrimgfv ugUwriszsagzuorxrksaotgvnkr geskbrlxgbmufgrlgmra
qzrbrlxajgBmragragbmugwzrliugkpgvoog kxfvbraba,gvl gtubgqugvzugbko g.t
mrfgbmvbgbmugfkzugqugclkqgbmugfkzugqugmvnugzkkfgpkzg ks.bjgRlguvzluab,
qugakfubrfuagauugmrfgamzks gvl gfsppougswgmrfauopgrlgakgbmricgvl gak
rluhbzriv.ougvlgk.aiszrbtgbmvbgqugclkqglkbgqmvbgbkgfvcugkpgmragv nriu;
rbgra,grlguppuib,gvgWtzzmklrafgsl uzgvgzuakosbrnugpkzfjgMuvzgIriuzk’a
wzkbuabvbrkl,gqmkguhwksl agbkgsagvlkbmuz’agpvlitg.tgmragkql:g_Esr
zuesrzslbgesr g ugesâesugzugrwargaulbrvfsa,giszrkarsagr gpvirslbgesvf
luiuaauguab,jjjgMkigrlgwmrokakwmrâgzvbrk,giklbzvgkflrvg raauzul r,
lsbbvfesugzufgvwuzbugys rivl r,gwzkpuibvgvgAkizvbu,gzuwubrbv
v.gVziuarov,giklyrzfvbvgvgXvfuv u,gsaesêgv glkabzvfgnrxub
iubvbufjjjjjjjjjjMrgasfsa,gesrgkflr.sagnuzragpvoavgesk vfgv yslibvguaau
 rivfsa,gbvlbvgarfrorbs rlu,gsbgrlgrraglsoovgrlarbgiuzbugys rivl rgub
vaaulbrul rglkbvj_g“Bmutgqmkg uarzugbkgclkqgqmvbgqugbmrlcgkpgunuzt
bmrlxgvzugbmuzurlgfkzugrlesrarbrnugbmvlgragluiuaavztjgBmragwzvibriu
rlgwmrokakwmtgkpg rawsbrlxgvxvrlabgunuztgbmrlx,gvl gkpgv.akosbuot
iklios rlxglkbmrlx,g.uxslg.tgAkizvbua,gzuwuvbu g.tgVziuarovsa,gvl 
iklprzfu g.tgIvfuv ua,gmvagiklbrlsu grlgsaugunulgbkgkszgkqlgbrfuajgQu
vzugbmutgqmkg uiovzugbmvbgbmuzugragakgxzuvbgvgfrhbszugkpgbmrlxagpvoau
vfklxabgvoogbmvbgvzugbzsu,gvl gbmutgakgzuauf.ougklugvlkbmuz,gbmvbgbmuzu
ivlg.ugrlgbmufglkgiuzbvrlgfvzcgbkg rzuibgsagurbmuzgbkgys xugkzgvaaulbj”
gQmtgmvbmglkbgVzrabkbougklot,g.sbgfkabgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuza,gvppuibu 
 rpprisobt,grpglkbgbkgaubgvgxzuvbuzgnvosugswklgbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmu
as.yuib,gvl gvfsaugbmugiszrkarbtgkpgkszgfrl ag.tgxrnrlxgbmufgbmragmkookq
vl gpouamouaag.klugbkgwric?gIorbkfvimsagvpprzfu g“Bmvbgmugikso glunuz
 raiknuzg.tgIvzluv ua’agqzrbrlxagqmvbgkwrlrklgmugqvagkpj”gBmragqvagrb
bmvbgfv ugUwriszsagvppuibgbkg.ugv.abzsau,gvl gbmvbgwzkiszu gMuzviorbsa
bmuguwrbmubgkpg[--Xzuuc--]g rpprisobtgragvgikrlgbmugouvzlu gfvcugsau
kp,gorcugysxxouza,gbkgikliuvogbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmurzgvzb,gvl gqmrimgmsfvl
akbbramluaaguvarotgbvcuagpkzgiszzulbgwvtj


ggggggIovzva,gk.gk.aiszvfgorlxsvf,gfvxragrlbuzgfvluajjj
gggKflrvgulrfgabkor rgfvxragv frzvlbszgvfvlbesu
gggRlnuzaragesægas.gnuz.ragovbrbvlbrvgiufslbj

gggggg“.kf.vabgvl gzr  oug.uabg kgwswwruagwouvau,
gggPkzgpkkoagv frzugvl goknugasimgbmrlxagvagbmuau;
gggVl gvg soogesr..ou,gqzvwbgrlg s.rksagwmzvau,
gggSwgbkgbmugmurxmbg kbmgbmurzgqraugqkl uzgzvrauj”


Iriuzkgzuwzumul agakfugkpgmragpzrul agpkzgxrnrlxgfkzugkpgbmurzgbrfu
bkgbmugabs tgkpgvabzkokxt,gokxri,gvl gxukfubzt,gbmvlgbmutgquzugzuvoot
qkzbm;gavtrlxgbmvbgbmutgquzug.tgbmuaug rnuzbu gpzkfgbmug sbruagkpgorpu,
vl gfkzugwzkprbv.ougvl gwzkwuzgabs ruajgBmugItzulvricgwmrokakwmuza,grl
orcugfvlluz,g uawrau gwmtariagvl gokxrijgDulk,grlgbmugnuztg.uxrllrlxgkp
bmug.kkcagkpgbmugikffklquvobm,g uiovzu gvoogbmugor.uzvogvzbagkpglkgsauj
Imztarwwsagavr g“BmvbgqmvbgWovbkgvl gVzrabkbougmv gqzrb,gikliuzlrlx
okxri,gbmutgmv gklotg klugrlgawkzb,gvl g.tgqvtgkpguhuzirau;”gvl gikso 
lkbg.uorunugbmvbgbmutgawkcugrlguvzluabgkpgakgnvrlgvgbmrlxjgWosbvzim
avtagbmugavfugkpgfubvwmtariajgVl gUwriszsagqkso gmvnugavr gvagfsim
kpgzmubkzri,gxzvffvz,gwkubzt,gfvbmufvbria,gvl ,glvbszvogwmrokakwmt
uhiuwbu ,gkpgvoogbmugairuliua;gvl gAkizvbuagkpgbmufgvoo,guhiuwbrlxgbmvb
qmrimgbzuvbagkpgfvlluzagvl gkpgorpujgQmvbunuzgvltgklugzuesrzu gbkg.u
rlabzsibu grl,g.tgmrf,gmugqkso gunuz,grlgbmugprzabgwoviu,g ufvl 
vlgviikslbgkpgbmugikl rbrklagkpgmragorpugwzuaulbgvl gwvab,gqmrimgmu
uhvfrlu gvl gys xu ,guabuufrlxgvoogkbmuzgouvzlrlxgas.auesulbgbkgbmvb
vl gaswuzlsfuzvzt:g_Wvzsfgfrmrgwoviuvlbguægorbbuzkgeskgv gnrzbsbuf
 kibkzr.saglrmrogwzk-psuzslbj_g“Bmvbgouvzlrlxgragrlgafvoogzuwsbugqrbmgfu
qmrimglkbmrlxgwzkprbu gbmugbuvimuzagbmufauonuagbkgnrzbsuj”gFkabgkpgbmu
vzbagmvnug.uulgrlgorcugfvlluzg uizru g.tgbmugavfugclkqou xu;g.sbgbmut
 r glkbgiklar uzgbmvbgrbgqvagpzkfgbmugwszwkaugbkguhuziraugbmurzgqrbagrl
bmkaugnuztgfvbbuzagqmuzurlgbmuzugqvaglkgakor gv nvlbvxuj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gakfugmvnugokkcu gswklgWovbkgvagvg kxfvbrab,gkbmuzagvagv
 ks.buz,gkbmuzagrlgakfugbmrlxagbmugklu,gvl grlgkbmuzgbmrlxagbmugkbmuzj
Akizvbua,gbmugikl sibkzgkpgmrag rvokxsua,gragubuzlvootgswklgesuabrkla
vl gabrzzrlxgswg rawsbua,glunuzg ubuzfrlrlx,glunuzgavbraptrlx,gvl 
wzkpuaauagbkgmvnuglkgkbmuzgairuliug.sbgbmvbgkpgkwwkarlxgmrfauopjgMkfuz,
bmurzgvsbmkz,gmvaguesvootgovr gbmugpksl vbrklagkpgvoogbmugauibagkp
wmrokakwmt,gbkgamkqgmkqgrl rppuzulbgrbgqvagqmrimgqvtgqugamkso gimkkauj
‘Bragavr gbmvbgbulgaunuzvogauibagawzslxgpzkfgWovbk;gtub,grlgftgkwrlrkl,
lunuzg r gvltgrlabzsibrklgmvobgvl gabsf.ou,grpgmrag kuaglkbj

Akizvbuagavr gbmvbgfr qrnua,grlgbvcrlxgswklgbmufgbmugbzv ugkpgmuowrlx
kbmuzagbkg.zrlxgpkzbm,goupbgbmugbzv ugkpg.zrlxrlxgpkzbmgbmufauonua;gvl 
bmvbg.tgbmugbrbougkpgvgqraugfvlgkzgavxu,gqmrimgbmugxk agmv giklpuzzu 
swklgmrf,gmugqvag rav.ou ,grlgmragnrzrougvl gfulbvogoknu,gkpgbmugpvisobt
kpg.zrlxrlxgpkzbm,giklbulbrlxgmrfauopgbkgmuowgvl gvaarabgbmkaugbmvb
ikso ;gbkgkwulgbmurzglvbszu,gvlkrlbgbmugwvaaua,gvl gpvirorbvbugbmurz
.rzbm;gbkgys xugkpgbmugrlpvlb,g.vwbrdu,glkszram,gpkzbrpt,gaqvbm,gvl 
irzisfiraugrb,guhuzirarlxgvl gufwoktrlxgmragsl uzabvl rlxgrlgbmugwuzroa
vl gpkzbsluagkpgkbmuzaj

Rbgragakgqrbmgbmugfkabgwvzbgkpgbmragbmrz gakzbgkpgvsbmkza,gvagbmu
vlirulbagmvnugk.auznu grlgbmugqzrbrlxagkpgVlvhvxkzva,g ufkizrbsa,
Wvzfulr ua,gHulkwmvlua,gvl gkbmuzajgBmutgmvnugvgqvtgkpgqzrbrlx,g ks.bpso
rlgas.abvliugvl g uarxl,gzvbmuzgrlesrzrlxgbmvlgbuvimrlx,gbmksxmgbmutgfrh
bmurzgabtougqrbmgakfug kxfvbrivogwuzrk ajgRaglkbgbmugavfugbmrlxgauulgrl
Auluivgvl gWosbvzim?gMkqgfvltgiklbzv ribrklagvzugbmuzugbkg.ugpksl grpgv
fvlgwztglvzzkqotgrlbkgbmuf!gAkgfvltgbmvbgbmugzuiklirorlxgovqtuzagksxmb
przabgbkgzuiklirougbmufgunuztgklugbkgbmufauonuajgWovbkgauufagbkgmvnu
vppuibu gbmragfubmk gkpgwmrokakwmrdrlxgrlg rvokxsua;gbkgbmugul gbmvbgmu
frxmbgqrbmgxzuvbuzg uiulit,gpzkfgaunuzvogfksbma,g uornuzgbmug rnuzarbt
vl gnvzrubtgkpgmragkqlgpvliruajgRbgragvagquoogbkgbzuvbgnvzrksaotgkp
bmrlxagvagbkgbzuvbgkpgbmufgiklpkzfv.ot,gvl g.ubbuz,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gfkzu
ikwrksaotgvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgwzkprbjgOubgsagbvcuguhvfwougpzkfgkszauonua:
ys xfulbagvzugbmugsbfkabgwkrlbgkpgvoog kxfvbrivogvl g ubuzfrlvbrnu
awuvcrlx;gvl gtubgbmkaug_vzzuba_gbmvbgkszgwvzorvfulbagxrnugbmugwukwou,
bmugfkabguhufwovztgkpgbmuf,gvl gbmkaugfkabgwzkwuzgbkglkszramgrlgbmufgbmu
zunuzuliug sugbkgbmvbg rxlrbt,gwzrlirwvootgbmzksxmgbmugaspprirulitgkp
bmugwuzaklagvibrlx,g uzrnugbmurzg.uvsbtglkbgakgfsimgpzkfgbmugikliosarkl,
qmrimgqrbmgbmufgrageskbr rvlgvl gikffklgbkgunuztgys xu,gvagpzkfgbmu
 rawsbugvl gmuvbgkpg rnuzagvl giklbzvztgvzxsfulbagbmvbgbmugfvbbuzgkpgovq
vl guesrbtgqroogwuzfrbgVl gbmugovzxuabgpruo gpkzgzuwzumularklgbmvb
akfugwmrokakwmuzagmvnugvxvrlabgkbmuzagrag zvqlgpzkfgbmug rnuzarbruagvl 
iklbzv ribrklagqmuzurlgunuztgklugkpgbmufgprl agmrfauopgwuzwouhu ,gurbmuz
klgwszwkaugbkgamkqgbmugnviroovbrklgkpgbmugmsfvlgfrl gikliuzlrlxgunuzt
bmrlx,gkzgrxlkzvlbotgikfwuoou g.tgbmugnkos.rorbtgvl grlikfwzumular.rorbt
kpgvoogfvbbuz;gqmrimgragbmugfuvlrlxgkpgbmugfvhrf--“Rlgvgaorwwuztgvl 
aor rlxgwoviugoubgsagasawul gkszg.uorup;”gpkz,gvagUszrwr uagavta,--


ggg“Xk ’agnvzrksagqkzcagwuzwouhgbmugbmksxmbagkpgfulj”


OrcugbmvbgqmrimgUfwu kioua,gvagrpgbzvlawkzbu gqrbmgvg rnrlugpszt,gvl 
ikfwuoou g.tgbzsbm,gkpbulgabzuqu gmuzugvl gbmuzugrlgmragqzrbrlxa:g“Lk,
lk,gqugpuuoglkbmrlx,gqugauuglkbmrlx;gvoogbmrlxagvzugikliuvou gpzkf
sa;gbmuzugraglkbgklugbmrlxgkpgqmrimgqugivlgwkarbrnuotgavtgqmvbgrbgra;”
gviikz rlxgbkgbmug rnrlugavtrlx:g_Ikxrbvbrkluagfkzbvorsfgbrfr æ,gub
rliuzbægv rlnulbrkluaglkabzkgubgwzknr ulbriuj_g“Pkzgbmugbmksxmbagkp
fkzbvogfulgvzug ks.bpso;gvl gkszg unriuagvzug.sbgsliuzbvrlj”gRbgraglkb
bkg.ugbmksxmbgabzvlxugrpgful,g uawvrzrlxgbkgknuzbvcugqmvbgbmutgmslb
vpbuz,gmvnuglkbgmkqunuzgokabgbmugwouvaszugkpgbmugimvau;gabs tg.urlx
kpgrbauopgakgwouvavlbgvlgufwoktfulb;gvl gakgwouvavlbgbmvbgvfklxabgbmu
wouvaszua,gbmugAbkriagpkz.r gbmvbgvoakgqmrimgwzkiuu agpzkfgbmuguhuzirau
kpgbmugfrl ,gqroogmvnugrbgisz.u ,gvl gprl gvgcrl gkpgrlbufwuzvliugrlgbkk
fsimgclkqou xuj

 ufkizrbsagmvnrlxguvbulgprxagvbgmragbv.ougbmvbgbvabu gkpgmklut,gpuoo
wzuaulbotgbkgiklar uzrlxgqrbmgmrfauopgqmuliugbmutgamkso g uzrnugbmra
slsasvogaquubluaa;gvl gbkg.ugavbrapru grlgrb,gqvagv.ksbgbkgzraugpzkfgbmu
bv.ougbkgauugbmugwoviugqmuliugbmugprxagmv g.uulgxvbmuzu ;gqmrimgmragfvr 
k.auznrlx,gvl gmvnrlxgsl uzabkk gbmugivsau,gafrorlxotgbko gmrfgbmvbg“mu
luu glkbgbzks.ougmrfauopgv.ksbgbmvb,gpkzgamugmv gwsbgbmufgrlbkgvgnuaauo
rlgqmrimgbmuzugmv g.uulgmklutj”gMugqvagnuhu gvbgbmrag raiknuzt,gvl gbmvb
amugmv g uwzrnu gmrfgkpgbmugkiivarklgkpgbmragrlesrzt,gvl gzk..u gmra
iszrkarbtgkpgfvbbuzgbkgqkzcgswkl:g“Xkgbmtgqvt,”gavr gmu,g“bmksgmvabg klu
fugvlgrlyszt;g.sb,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gRgqroogauucgksbgbmugivsaugvagrpgrb
quzuglvbszvo;”gvl gqkso gqroorlxotgmvnugpksl gksbgakfugbzsugzuvaklgpkzgv
pvoaugvl grfvxrlvztguppuibjgBmragabkztgkpgvgpvfksagvl gxzuvbgwmrokakwmuz
nuztgiouvzotgzuwzuaulbagbkgsagbmvbgabs rksagwvaarklgbmvbgwsbagsagswkl
bmugwszasrbgkpgbmrlxa,gkpgbmugviesrarbrklgkpgqmrimgqug uawvrzjgWosbvzim
xrnuagvgorcuguhvfwougkpgakfugklugqmkgqkso glkbg.ugavbrapru grlgbmvb
qmuzukpgmugqvagrlg ks.b,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgokaugbmugwouvaszugkp
rlesrzrlxgrlbkgrb;gorcugbmugkbmuzgqmkgqkso glkbgbmvbgmragwmtarirvl
amkso gvoovtgbmugbmrzabgkpgmragpunuz,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgokaugbmu
wouvaszugkpgesulimrlxgrbg.tg zrlcrlxjg_Avbrsaguabgaswuznvisvg raiuzu,
esvfglrmroj_g“‘Brag.ubbuzgbkgouvzlgfkzugbmvlgluiuaavztgbmvlglkbmrlxgvb
vooj”gVagrlgvoogakzbagkpgpuu rlx,gbmugwouvaszugkpguvbrlxgragnuztgkpbul
arlxougvl gvoklu,gvl gbmvbgqmvbgqugbvcu,gqmrimgragviiuwbv.ougbkgbmu
wvovbu,graglkbgvoqvtaglkszramrlxgkzgqmkouakfu;gakgbmvbgqmrimgkszgfrl a
uhbzvibgpzkfgairuliug kuaglkbgiuvaugbkg.ugwouvavlb,gbmksxmgbmuzu
.uglkbmrlxgrlgrbgurbmuzglsbzrbrnugkzgmuvobmpsojgBmsagbmutgavt:g“Bmu
iklar uzvbrklgkpglvbszugragvg rubgwzkwuzgpkzgkszgfrl a,grbgzvrauagvl 
uounvbuagsa,gfvcuagsag ra vrlgokqgvl gbuzzuabzrvogbmrlxa,g.tgikfwvzrlx
bmufgqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgvzugiuouabrvogvl gmrxmjgBmugfuzugrlesrarbrklgrlbk
xzuvbgvl gkiisobgbmrlxagragnuztgwouvavlb,gunulgbkgbmkaugqmkgviesrzuglk
kbmuzg.uluprbgbmvlgbmugzunuzuliugvl gpuvzgkpgys xrlxgrbj”gBmragra
qmvbgbmutgwzkpuaajgBmugnvrlgrfvxugkpgbmragaricotgiszrkarbtgragtubgfkzu
fvlrpuabgrlgbmragkbmuzguhvfwougqmrimgbmutgakgkpbulgszxujg“Us khsagqramu 
vl g.uxxu gkpgbmugxk agbmvbgmugfrxmbgkliugauugbmugaslgluvzgvbgmvl ,gbk
ikfwzumul gbmugpkzf,gxzuvbluaa,gvl g.uvsbtgkpgrb;gunulgbmksxmgmugamkso 
bmuzu.tg.ugrffu rvbuotg.szlu j”gMugqkso gvbgbmugwzriugkpgmragorpu
wszimvaugvgclkqou xu,gkpgqmrimgbmugsaugvl gwkaauaarklgamkso gvbgbmugavfu
brfug.ugbvculgpzkfgmrf;gvl gpkzgbmragas  ulgvl gnvlramrlxgclkqou xu
okaugvoogbmugkbmuzgclkqou xugmugmv grlgwzuaulb,gkzgfrxmbgvpbuzqvz agmvnu
viesrzu j

Rgivllkbguvarotgwuzasv ugftauopgbmvbgUwriszsa,gWovbk,gvl gWtbvxkzva,
mvnugxrnulgsagbmurzgvbkf,gr uvgvl glsf.uza,gpkzgiszzulbgwvtjgBmutgquzu
bkkgqraugbkguabv.oramgbmurzgvzbriouagkpgpvrbmgswklgbmrlxagakg rawsbv.ou
vl gsliuzbvrljg.sbgrlgbmvbgk.aiszrbtgvl grxlkzvliugrlgqmrimgbmugqkzo 
bmulgqva,gunuztgklugkpgbmuaugxzuvbgfulgul uvnkszu gbkgwzuaulbgakfugcrl 
kpgrfvxugkzgzupouibrklgkpgorxmb,gvl gqkzcu gbmurzg.zvrlagpkzgrlnulbrkla
bmvbgfrxmbgmvnugvgwouvavlbgvl gas.bougvwwuvzvliu;gwzknr u gbmvb,gbmksxm
pvoau,gbmutgfrxmbgfvcugxkk gbmurzgxzksl gvxvrlabgbmkaugbmvbgqkso gkwwkau
bmufjg_Slrisresugrabvgwzkgrlxulrkgprlxslbsz,glklguhgairulbrægnrj_g“Bmuau
bmrlxagunuztgklugpvliruagviikz rlxgbkgmragqrb,gvl glkbg.tgvltgwkquzgkp
clkqou xuj”

Klugkpgbmugvlirulba,gqmkgqvagzuwzkvimu ,g“Bmvbgmugwzkpuaau gwmrokakwmt,
kpgqmrimgmuglunuzbmuouaagrlgmragkqlgys xfulbgfv uglkgxzuvbgviikslb,”
gfv ugvlaquz,g“Bmvbgbmragqvagbzsotgbkgwmrokakwmrduj”

Bmutgqramu gbkgiklar uzgvoo,gbkg.vovliugunuztgbmrlx,gvl gpksl gbmvbgvl
ufwoktfulbgquoogasrbu gbkgkszglvbszvogiszrkarbtjgAkfugbmrlxagbmutgqzkbu
pkzgbmug.uluprbgkpgws.origakirubt,gvagbmurzgzuorxrkla;gvl gpkzgbmvb
iklar uzvbrklgrbgqvag.sbgzuvaklv.ougbmvbgbmutgamkso glkbguhvfrlugws.ori
kwrlrklagbkgbmugesric,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkbg rabsz.gbmugikffklgk.u ruliu
bkgbmugovqagvl gisabkfagkpgbmurzgikslbztj

Wovbkgbzuvbagkpgbmragftabuztgqrbmgvgzvroouztgfvlrpuabgulksxm;gpkzgqmuzu
mugqzrbuagviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgfubmk gmugxrnuaglkgiuzbvrlgzsoujgQmulgmu
wovtagbmugouxraovbkzgmug.kzzkqagvgfvxrabuzrvogvl gwkarbrnugabtou,gvl 
.ko otgbmuzugpkrabagrlgmragfkabgpvlbvabrigrlnulbrkla,gvagprbgbkgwuzasv u
bmugnsoxvz,gvagrfwkaar.ougbkg.ug.uorunu g.tgmrfauop;gclkqrlxgnuztgquoo
mkqgprbgqugvzugbkgzuiurnugvoogakzbagkpgrfwzuaarkla,guawuirvootgbmugfkab
rffk uzvbugvl gwzuwkabuzksa;gvl gtub,grlgmrag_Ovqa_,gmugbvcuagarlxsovz
ivzugbmvbglkbmrlxg.ugaslxgrlgws.orig.sbgwkubzt,gkpgqmrimgbmugpribrklgvl 
pv.soksagzuovbrklagbul gbkgakfugv nvlbvxuksagul ;grbg.urlxgakguvatgbk
rfwzrlbgvoogakzbagkpgwmvlbvafagrlgmsfvlgfrl a,gbmvbgrbgquzugrlysabriu
lkbgbkgpuu gbmufgzvbmuzgqrbmgwzkprbv.ougslbzsbmagbmvlgqrbmgslbzsbmagbmvb
vzugslwzkprbv.ougvl gmszbpsojgMugavtagnuztgzksl ot,grlgmrag_Zuws.ori,_
“Bmvbgrbgragkpbulgluiuaavzt,gpkzgbmug.uluprbgkpgful,gbkg uiurnugbmufj”
gRbgragnuztguvatgbkg rabrlxsramgbmvbgakfugkpgbmugauibagmvnugfkzugpkookqu 
bzsbm,gvl gbmugkbmuzagsbrorbt,g.tgqmrimgbmugovabgmvnugxvrlu gbmurz
zuwsbvbrkljg‘Bragbmugfrauztgkpgkszgikl rbrklgbmvbgkpbulgbmvbgqmrim
wzuaulbagrbauopgbkgkszgrfvxrlvbrklgpkzgbmugbzsuabg kuaglkbgvwwuvzgbmu
fkabgsaupsogbkgorpujgBmug.ko uabgauiba,gvagbmugUwriszuvl,gWtzzmklrvl,
vl gbmugluqgViv ufri,gvzugtubgiklabzvrlu gbkgas.frbgbkgbmugirnrogovqgvb
bmugul gkpgbmugviikslbj

Bmuzugvzugkbmuzgas.yuibagbmvbgbmutgmvnugbsf.ou gvl gbkaau gv.ksb,gakfu
bkgbmugzrxmbgvl gkbmuzagbkgbmugoupb,gunuztgklugul uvnkszrlx,gzrxmbgkz
qzklx,gbkgxrnugbmufgakfugcrl gkpgikoksz;gpkz,gmvnrlxgpksl glkbmrlxgak
v.abzsaugbmvbgbmutgqkso glkbgnulbszugbkgawuvcgkp,gbmutgvzugnuzt
kpbulgpkziu gbkgpkzxugquvcgvl gzr risoksagiklyuibszua;glkbgbmvbgbmut
bmufauonuagokkcu gswklgbmufgvagvltgpksl vbrkl,gkzguabv.oramrlxgvlt
iuzbvrlgbzsbm,g.sbgfuzuotgpkzguhuziraujg_Lklgbvfgr gaularaaugesk 
 riuzulb,gesvfguhuziuzugrlxélrvgfvbuzrkg rpprisobvbugnr ulbszgnkosraauj_
“Bmutgauufglkbgakgfsimgbmufauonuagbkgmvnug.uorunu gqmvbgbmutgavr ,gvagbk
mvnugmv gvgfrl gbkguhuziraugbmurzgqrbagrlgbmug rpprisobtgkpgbmu
fvbbuzj”gVl grpgqug r glkbgbvcugrbgbmsa,gmkqgamkso gqugwvoorvbugak
xzuvbgrliklabvlit,gnvzrubt,gvl gnvlrbtgkpgkwrlrkla,gvagqugauugmvnug.uul
wzk siu g.tgbmkauguhiuooulbgvl gv frzv.ougful?gVa,gpkzguhvfwou,gqmvb
ivlg.ugfkzugnvrlgbmvlgbkgrfvxrlu,gbkgxsuaagvbgXk ,g.tgkszgvlvokxruagvl 
iklyuibszua?gBkg rzuibgvl gxknuzlgmrfgvl gbmugqkzo g.tgkszgivwvirbrua
vl gkszgovqa?gVl gbkgauznugkszauonua,gvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgbmug rnrlrbt,
qrbmgqmvbgafvoogwkzbrklgkpgivwvirbtgmugmvag.uulgwouvau gbkgrfwvzbgbk
kszglvbszvogikl rbrkl;gvl g.uivsaugqugivllkbguhbul gkszgarxmbgbkgmra
xokzrksagbmzklu,gbkgmvnug.zksxmbgmrfg kqlgbkgkszgikzzswbrklgvl gksz
frauzrua?

Kpgvoogmsfvlgvl gvlirulbgkwrlrklagikliuzlrlxgzuorxrkl,gbmvbgauufagbk
fugbmugfkabgorcuotgvl gfkabguhisav.ou,gbmvbgviclkqou xu gXk gvagvl
rlikfwzumular.ougwkquz,gbmugkzrxrlvogvl gwzuauznuzgkpgvoogbmrlxa,gvoo
xkk luaa,gvoogwuzpuibrkl,gzuiurnrlxgvl gbvcrlxgrlgxkk gwvzbgbmugmklksz
vl gzunuzuliugbmvbgfvlgwvr gmrf,gsl uzgqmvbgfubmk ,glvfu,gkzgiuzufklrua
akunuz--


ggggggYswrbuzgkflrwkbula,gzuzsf,gzuxsfesu,g uûfesu,
gggWzkxulrbkz,gxulrbzrhesuj

gggggg“Yknu,gbmugvofrxmbt,gvsbmkzgkpgvoogbmrlxa,
gggBmugpvbmuz,gfkbmuz,gkpg.kbmgxk agvl gcrlxaj”


Bmragduvogmvagslrnuzavootg.uulgokkcu gswklgpzkfgmuvnulgqrbmgvgxzvirksa
utujgVoogxknuzlfulbagmvnugzuvwu gpzsrbgpzkfgbmurzg unkbrkl;grfwrksa
fulgvl gvibrklagmvnugunuztqmuzugmv gasrbv.ougunulbajgWvxvlgmrabkzrua
viclkqou xug rxlrbt,gkz uz,gysabriu,gwzk rxrua,gvl gkzvioua,gufwoktu 
pkzgbmurzgwzkprbgvl grlabzsibrklgrlgbmurzgpv.soksagzuorxrkla;gXk ,
bmzksxmgmragfuzit,gnksimavprlx,g.tgbmuaugbufwkzvog.uluprba,gbkgimuzram
bmugbul uzgwzrlirwouagkpgvgcrl gkpg.zsbramgclkqou xugbmvbglvbszvogzuvakl
xvnugbmufgkpgmrf,gbmzksxmgbmug uiurnrlxgrfvxuagkpgbmurzg zuvfajgLkbgklot
 uiurnrlxgvl gpvoau,g.sbgrfwrksagvoakgvl grlyszrksa,gvzugbmkaugbmvbgfvl
mvagpkzxu gpzkfgmragkqlgrlnulbrkl:gvl gkpgvoogbmugzuorxrklagbmvbgAbj
Wvsogpksl grlgzuwsbugvbgVbmula,gbmvbgqmrimgbmutgmv g u rivbu g“bkgbmu
slclkqlgXk ”gauufu gbkgmrfgbmugfkabgbkg.uguhisau j

Wtbmvxkzvagamv kqu gbmugbzsbmgvgorbbougfkzugiokauot,gys xrlxgbmvb
bmugclkqou xugkpgbmragprzabgivsaugvl g.urlxgkpg.urlxagksxmbgbkg.u
rl uprlrbu,gqrbmksbgorfrbvbrkl,gqrbmksbg uiovzvbrkl;gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbmrlx
uoaugbmvlgbmuguhbzufuguppkzbgkpgkszgrfvxrlvbrklgbkqvz agwuzpuibrkl,
unuztgklugvfworptrlxgbmugr uvgviikz rlxgbkgbmugbvoulbgkpgmragivwvirbtj
.sbgrpgLsfvgvbbufwbu gbkgiklpkzfgbmug unkbrklgkpgmragwukwougbkgbmra
wzkyuib;gbkgvbbvimgbmufgbkgvgzuorxrklgwszuotgfulbvo,gqrbmksbgvlt
wzuprhu gk.yuibgvl gfvbuzrvogfrhbszu,gmugsl uzbkkcgvgbmrlxgkpglkgsau;
bmugmsfvlgfrl gikso glunuzgaswwkzbgrbauopgpokvbrlxgrlgasimgvlgrlprlrbt
kpgrlpkzfgbmksxmba;gbmuzugragzuesrzu gakfugiuzbvrlgrfvxugbkg.ugwzuaulbu 
viikz rlxgbkgrbagkqlgfk uojgBmug rnrlugfvyuabtgmvagbmsa,grlgakfugakzb,
asppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.ugirzisfaizr.u grlgikzwkzvogorfrbagpkzgksz
v nvlbvxujgMragaswuzlvbszvogvl giuouabrvogavizvfulbagmvnugarxlagkpgksz
uvzbmotgikl rbrkl;gmragv kzvbrklgrag.tgaular.ougkppriuagvl gqkz a;gpkz
‘bragfvlgbmvbg.uorunuagvl gwzvtajgRgamvoogkfrbgbmugkbmuzgvzxsfulbagswkl
bmragas.yuib;g.sbgvgfvlgqkso gmvnugfsimgv kgbkgfvcugfug.uorunugbmvbgbmu
arxmbgkpgkszgizsirprhua,gbmvbgbmugwribszugkpgkszgAvnrksz’agwvaarkl,gbmvb
bmugkzlvfulbagvl giuzufklrksagfkbrklagkpgkszgimszimua,gbmvbgbmugnkriua
viikffk vbu gbkgbmug unkbrklgkpgkszgbmksxmba,gvl gbmvbgufkbrklgkpgbmu
aulaua,g kglkbgqvzfgbmugaksoagkpgbmugwukwougqrbmgvgzuorxrksagwvaarklgkp
nuztgv nvlbvxuksaguppuibj

Kpgbmkaugbkgqmkfgbmutgmvnugxrnulgvg.k t,gvagluiuaarbtgzuesrzu grlgbmvb
slrnuzavog.orl luaa,gRgamkso ,gRgpvlit,gfkabgrliorlugbkgbmkaugqmkgv kzu 
bmugasl:--


ggggggOvgOsfrèzugikffslu,
gggO’krog sgfkl u;gubgarg rusgvsgimupgwkzbug uagtush,
gggOuagzvtklag sgakourogaklbgauagtusohgzv rush,
gggEsrg kllulbgnrugàgbksba,glksagfvrlbrullulbgubgxvz ulb,
gggUbgouagpvriba uagmsfvrlagulgiugfkl ugzuxvz ulb:
gggIug.uvs,giugxzvl gakourogesrglksagpvribgouagavrakla,
gggAuoklges’rogulbzugksgakzbg ugauag ksdugfvrakla;
gggEsrgzufworbgo’slrnuzag ugauagnuzbsagikxlsua;
gggEsrg ’slgbzvribg ugauagtusohglksag raarwugouaglsua;
gggO’uawzrb,go’vfug sgfkl u,gvz ulbgubgpovf.ktvlb,
gggUlgovgikszaug ’slgykszgbksbgougIruogbkszlktvlb;
gggWourlg ’rffulaugxzvl usz,gzkl ,gnvxv.kl ,gubgpuzfu;
gggOuesuogbrulbg uaaks.agostgbksbgougfkl ugwkszgbuzfu:
gggUlgzuwka,gavlagzuwka;gktarp,gubgavlagaéyksz;
gggProagvralég uglvbszu,gubgougwèzug sgyksz:

gggggg“Bmugikffklgorxmbgbmvbguesvogamrluagklgvoo,
ggg rppsau gvzksl gbmugqmkougbuzzuabzrvog.voo;
gggVl ,grpgbmugvofrxmbtgZsouzgkpgbmugacrua
gggMvagutua,gbmugasl.uvfagvzugmragzv rvlbgutua,
gggBmvbgorpugvl gavpubtgxrnugbkgtkslxgvl gko ,
gggVl gvoogful’agvibrklagswklguvzbmg.umko j
gggBmragxzuvb,gbmrag.uvsbrpso,gbmugxokzrksagasl,
gggQmkgfvcuagbmurzgikszaugbmugnvzru gauvaklagzsl;
gggBmvbgqrbmgmragnrzbsuagprooagbmugslrnuzau,
gggVl gqrbmgklugxovliugivlgasooulgioks ag rawuzau;
gggUvzbm’agorpugvl gakso,gbmvb,gpovfrlxgrlgmragawmuzu,
gggAszzksl agbmugmuvnulagrlgklug vt’agivzuuz;
gggRffulauotgxzuvb,gfknrlxgtubgprzfgvl gzksl ,
gggQmkgbmugqmkougqkzo g.uokqgmvagfv ugmrag.ksl ;
gggVbgzuab,gqrbmksbgzuab,gr ougqrbmksbgabvt,
gggLvbszu’agprzabgakl,gvl gpvbmuzgkpgbmug vt:”


pkzvafsimgva,g.uar ugbmragxzvl uszgvl g.uvsbtgkpgmra,g‘bragbmugklot
wruiugkpgbmragfvimrlugbmvbgqug raiknuzgvbgbmugzufkbuabg rabvliugpzkfgsa;
vl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagakgorbbougclkqlgbmvbgbmutgquzugwvz klv.ougpkzgulbuzrlx
rlbkgakgxzuvbgv frzvbrklgvl gzunuzuliugkpgrbj

Bmvoua,gqmkgprzabgrlesrzu grlbkgbmragakzbgkpgfvbbuz,g.uorunu gXk gbkg.u
vgAwrzrbgbmvbgfv ugvoogbmrlxagkpgqvbuz;gVlvhrfvl uz,gbmvbgbmugxk a
quzugvoqvtag trlxgvl gulbuzrlxgrlbkgorpugvxvrl;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugquzugvl
rlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgqkzo a;gVlvhrfrlua,gbmvbgbmugvrzgqvagXk ,gbmvbgmu
qvagwzkizuvbugvl grffulau,gvoqvtagfknrlxjgVlvhvxkzvagbmugprzab,gqvagkp
kwrlrklgbmvbgbmug uaizrwbrklgvl gfvlluzgkpgvoogbmrlxagquzugikl sibu g.t
bmugwkquzgvl gzuvaklgkpgvlgrlprlrbugawrzrbjgVoifæklgxvnug rnrlrbtgbk
bmugasl,gfkkl,gvl gabvza,gvl gbkgbmugaksojgWtbmvxkzvagfv ugXk gvgawrzrb,
awzuv gknuzgbmuglvbszugkpgvoogbmrlxa,gqmuliugkszgaksoagvzuguhbzvibu ;
Wvzfulr ua,gvgirziougaszzksl rlxgbmugmuvnul,gvl gaswwkzbrlxgbmugqkzo g.t
bmugvz kszgkpgorxmbjgUfwu kiouagwzklksliu gbmugpkszguoufulba,gkpgqmrim
voogbmrlxagvzugikfwkau ,gbkg.ugxk a;gWzkbvxkzvagmv glkbmrlxgbkgavt,
qmubmuzgbmutgquzugkzgquzuglkb,gkzgqmvbgbmutgquzu;g ufkizrbsagqvagklu
qmrougkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmugrfvxuagvl gbmurzgirzisrbrklagquzugxk a;
vlkbmuzgqmrou,gbmuglvbszugbmvbg vzbagksbgbmkaugrfvxua;gvl gbmul,
kszgairuliugvl grlbuoorxuliujgWovbkg rnr uagmrag.uorupgrlbkgaunuzvo
kwrlrkla;gmugavta,grlgmrag_Brfæsa_,gbmvbgbmugPvbmuzgkpgbmugQkzo givllkb
.uglvfu ;grlgmragOvqa,gbmvbgfulgvzuglkbgbkgrlesrzugrlbkgmrag.urlx;gvl 
uoauqmuzu,grlgbmugnuztgavfug.kkca,gmugfvcuagbmugqkzo ,gbmugmuvnula,gbmu
abvza,gbmuguvzbm,gvl gkszgaksoa,gxk a;gv frbbrlx,gfkzuknuz,gbmkaugqmrim
mvnug.uulgzuiurnu g.tgvlirulbgrlabrbsbrklgrlgunuztgzuws.orij

HulkwmklgzuwkzbagvgorcugwuzwouhrbtgrlgAkizvbua’ag kibzrlu;gklugqmrou
bmvbgfulgvzuglkbgbkgrlesrzugrlbkgbmugpkzfgkpgXk ,gvl gwzuaulbotgfvcua
mrfgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgbmugaslgragXk ,gvl gbmugaksogXk ;gbmvbgbmuzugrag.sb
klugXk ,gvl gbmulgbmvbgbmuzugvzugfvltjgAwusarwwsa,gbmugluwmuqgkpgWovbk,
fvcuagXk gvgiuzbvrlgwkquzgxknuzlrlxgvoogbmrlxa,gvl gbmvbgmugmvagvgaksoj
Vzrabkbougklugqmrougavtagrbgragbmugawrzrb,gvl gvlkbmuzgbmugqkzo ;gklu
qmrougmugxrnuagbmugqkzo gvlkbmuzgfvabuz,gvl gvlkbmuzgqmrougfvcuagXk gbmu
muvbgkpgmuvnuljgDulkizvbuagfvcuagurxmb,gprnuglvfu gvfklxabgbmugwovluba;
bmugarhbmgikfwkau gkpgvoogbmugprhu gabvza,gvagkpgakgfvltgfuf.uza;gbmu
aunulbmgvl gurxmbm,gbmugaslgvl gfkkljgMuzvior uagWklbrisag kuaglkbmrlx
.sbgpokvbgrlgmragkwrlrkl,gvl gprlvootg uwzrnuagXk gkpgaulau,gvl gfvcua
mrfgamrpbgpzkfgklugpkzfgbkgvlkbmuz,gvl gvbgovabgavtagbmvbgrbgragmuvnul
vl guvzbmjgBmukwmzvabsagqvl uzagrlgbmugavfugrzzuakosbrklgvfklxabgmra
pvlirua,gvbbzr.sbrlxgbmugaswuzrlbul ulitgkpgbmugqkzo gklugqmrougbkgbmu
sl uzabvl rlx,gvlkbmuzgqmrougbkgmuvnul,gvl gbmulgbkgbmugabvzajgAbzvbk
avtagbmvbg‘braglvbszu,gamugmvnrlxgbmugwkquzgkpgxuluzvbrkl,gvsxfulbvbrkl,
vl g rfrlsbrkl,gqrbmksbgpkzfgvl gaulbrfulbgDulkgavtag‘bragbmugovqgkp
lvbszu,gikffvl rlxgxkk gvl gwzkmr.rbrlxgunro;gqmrimgovqgragvlgvlrfvo;
vl gbvcuagvqvtgbmugviisabkfu gxk a,gYswrbuz,gYslk,gvl gNuabvjg rkxulua
Vwkooklrvbua,gbmvbg‘bragvrzjgDulkwmvluagfvcuagXk gzksl ,gauurlxgvl 
muvzrlx,glkbg.zuvbmrlx,gvl gmvnrlxglkbmrlxgrlgikffklgqrbmgmsfvlglvbszuj
VzrabkgbmrlcagbmugpkzfgkpgXk gbkg.ugrlikfwzumular.ou,g uwzrnuagmrf
kpgaulau,gvl gclkqaglkbgqmubmuzgmug.ugvlgvlrfvogkzgakfubmrlxguoau;
Iouvlbmua,gklugqmrougaswwkauagrbgbkg.ugzuvakl,gvlkbmuzgqmrougbmugqkzo ,
vlkbmuzgbmugaksogkpglvbszu,gvl gbmulgbmugaswzufugmuvbgzkoorlxgv.ksb,gvl 
ulnrzklrlxgvoojgWuzausa,gDulk’ag rairwou,gqvagkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgfulgmvnu
xrnulgbmugbrbougkpgxk agbkgasimgvagmvnug.uulgsaupso,gvl gmvnugv  u 
vltglkbv.ougv nvlbvxugbkgmsfvlgorpu,gvl gunulgbkgwzkprbv.ougbmrlxa
bmufauonuajgImztarwwsagfv ugvgiklpsau gmuvwgkpgvoogbmugwzuiu rlx
bmukzrua,gvl gzuickla,gvfklxabgvgbmksavl gpkzfagkpgxk agbmvbgmugfvcua,
bmugfulgvoakgbmvbgmvnug.uulg urpru jg rvxkzvagvl gBmuk kzvagpovbot
 ulru gbmvbgbmuzugquzugvltgxk agvbgvoojgUwriszsagfvcuagbmugxk agamrlrlx,
bzvlawvzulb,gvl gwuzpov.ou,gok xu gvag.ubqrhbgbqkgpkzba,g.ubqrhbgbqk
qkzo a,gauiszugpzkfg.okqa,giokbmu grlgvgmsfvlgprxszu,gvl gqrbmgasim
fuf.uzagvagqugmvnu;gqmrimgfuf.uzagvzugbkgbmufgkpglkgsau:--


ggggggUxkg usfgxulsaguaaugaufwuzg shr,gubg rivfgikorbsf;
gggAu gukaglklgiszvzugkwrlkzgesr gvxvbgmsfvlsfgxulsaj

gggggg“Rgunuzgbmksxmbgbmvbgxk agv.knugbmuzugquzu,
ggg.sbg kglkbgbmrlcgbmutgivzugqmvbgfulg kgmuzuj”


Bzsabgbkgtkszgwmrokakwmt,gftgfvabuza;gvl g.zvxgbmvbgtksgmvnugpksl 
bmug.uvlgrlgbmugivcugqmulgtksgauugqmvbgvgzvbbougragmuzugqrbmgakgfvlt
wmrokakwmrivogmuv a!gBmugwuzwouhrbtgkpgakgfvltgqkzo otgpkzfagmvagxvrlu 
bmragknuzgfu,gbmvbgfvlluzagvl gkwrlrklagiklbzvztgbkgfrlug kglkbgakgfsim
 rawouvaugvagrlabzsibgfu;glkzgakgfsimgfvcugfugwzks gvagbmutgmsf.ougfu,
rlgikfwvzrlxgbmufjgVl gvoogkbmuzgimkriugbmvlgqmvbgikfuagpzkfgbmuguhwzuaa
vl grffu rvbugmvl gkpgXk gauufagbkgfugvgimkriugkpgnuztgorbbougwzrnrouxuj
Bmugwkoriruagkpgbmugqkzo gvzuglkgouaagkwwkarbugswklgbmragas.yuibgbmvl
bmugaimkkoa,g.tgqmrimgqugfvtgsl uzabvl gbmvbgpkzbslugrbauopgraglkbgfkzu
nvzrv.ougvl grliklabvlb,glkzgfkzug.orl gvl grliklar uzvbu,gbmvlgksz
zuvakljgBmugbmrlxagbmvbgvzugfkabgslclkqlgvzugfkabgwzkwuzgbkg.ug urpru ;
qmuzupkzugbkgfvcugxk agkpgkszauonua,gvagbmugvlirulbag r ,guhiuu agbmu
uhbzufuabgquvcluaagkpgsl uzabvl rlxjgRgqkso gfsimgzvbmuzgmvnugxklugvoklx
qrbmgbmkaugqmkgv kzu gbmugauzwulb,gbmug kx,gkzgbmugkh;gpkzvafsimgva
bmurzglvbszugvl g.urlxgragouaagclkqlgbkgsa,gvl gbmvbgqugmvnugfkzugzkkf
bkgrfvxrlugqmvbgqugwouvaugkpgbmkaug.uvaba,gvl gbkgvbbzr.sbugbkgbmuf
uhbzvkz rlvztgpvisobruajg.sbgbkgmvnugfv ugxk agkpgkszgkqlgikl rbrkl,gkp
qmkfgqugksxmbgbkgclkqgbmugrfwuzpuibrkla;gvl gbkgmvnugvbbzr.sbu gbk
bmufg uarzu,gvlxuz,gzunulxu,gfvzzrvxua,gxuluzvbrkl,gvoorvliua,goknu,
yuvoksat,gkszgfuf.uzagvl g.klua,gkszgpunuzagvl gwouvaszua,gkszg uvbmgvl 
k.auesrua;gbmragfsabgluu agmvnugwzkiuu u gpzkfgvgfvznuooksagrlu.zrubtgkp
bmugmsfvlgsl uzabvl rlx;


ggggggEsægwzkisogsaesugv ukg rnrlkgv.glsfrlug rabvlb,
gggRlesug uûfglsfézkgesægarlbgrl rxlvgnr uzr;

gggggg“Pzkfg rnrluglvbszuagbmuaugakg rabvlbgvzu,
gggBmutgvzugslqkzbmtgkpgbmvbgimvzvibuzj”


_Pkzfk,gkbvbua,gnuabrbsa,gkfvbsaglkbrgaslb;gxuluzv,giklysxrv,
ikxlvbrklua,gkflrvesugbzv sibvgv garfrorbs rlufgrf.uoorbvzgbra
msfvlk:glvfgubgwuzbsz.vbragvlrfragrl sislbsz;gviirwrfsagulrfg ukzszl
iswr rbvbua,giuxzrbs rlua,grzvisl rva_;g“Bmurzgpkzfa,gvxua,giokbmua,
vl gkzlvfulbagvzugclkql:gbmurzg uaiulba,gfvzzrvxua,gvl gcrl zu ,gvl gvoo
v vwbu gbkgbmugarfrorbs ugkpgmsfvlgquvcluaa;gpkzgbmutgvzugzuwzuaulbu gbk
sagqrbmgvlhrksagfrl a,gvl gqugzuv gkpgbmugosaba,garicluaa,gvl gvlxuz
kpgbmugxk a;”gvagmvnrlxgvbbzr.sbu g rnrlrbtglkbgklotgbkgpvrbm,
nrzbsu,gmklksz,giklikz ,gor.uzbt,gnribkzt,gvl gwrubt;g.sbgvoakgbk
nkoswbsksaluaa,gpzvs ,g uvbm,gulnt,gko gvxu,gfrauzt;gbkgpuvz,gpunuz,groo
pkzbslu,gvl gkbmuzgrlyszruagkpgkszgpzvrogvl gbzvlarbkztgorpu:--


ggggggEsr gysnvbgmki,gbufworaglkabzkagrl siuzugfkzua?
gggKgisznægrlgbuzzragvlrfægubgikouabrsfgrlvlua!

gggggg“Kguvzbm-.kzlgaksoa!g.tguvzbm-.kzlgwvaarklagou ,
gggBkgunuztgawvzcgkpgmuvn’lotgrlposuliug uv !
gggBmrlcgtugbmvbgqmvbgfvlgnvosuagqroogrlawrzu
gggRlgfrl agiuouabrvogbmugavfug.vaug uarzu?”


BmugUxtwbrvla,gqrbmgvlgrfws ulbgwzs uliu,grlbuz ribu ,gswklgwvrlgkp
mvlxrlx,gbmvbgvltgklugamkso gavtgbmvbgbmurzgxk a,gAuzvwragvl gRara,gmv 
pkzfuzotg.uulgful;gvl gtubglkgklugqvagrxlkzvlbgbmvbgbmutgmv g.uul
asim;gvl gbmurzgupprxrua,gzuwzuaulbu gqrbmgbmugprlxuzgswklgbmugfksbm,
arxlrpru ,gavtagNvzzk,gbmvbgftabuzrksag uizuugbkgbmurzgwzruaba,gbk
ikliuvogbmurzgfkzbvogkzrxrlvo,gvagrbgfsabg.tgluiuaavztgiklauesuliu
ivliuogvoogbmugnuluzvbrklgwvr gbkgbmufjgAuurlxgbmvbgfvlgakgfsimg uarzu 
bkguesvogmrfauopgbkgXk ,gmugmv g klug.ubbuz,gavtagIriuzk,gbkgmvnu
vbbzvibu gbmkaug rnrlugikl rbrklagbkgmrfauop,gvl g zvqlgbmufg kqlgmrbmuz
.uokq,gbmvlgbkgaul gmragikzzswbrklgvl gfrauztgswgklgmrxm;g.sb,gbkgbvcu
rbgzrxmb,gmugmvagaunuzvogqvtag klug.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,gqrbmgorcu
nvlrbtgkpgkwrlrklj

Qmulgwmrokakwmuzagauvzimglvzzkqotgrlbkgbmugmruzvzimtgkpgbmurzgxk a,gvl 
fvcugvgxzuvbg.sabougv.ksbg rabrlxsramrlxgbmurzgvoorvliua,gkppriua,gvl 
wkquz,gRgivllkbg.uorunugbmutgawuvcgvagbmutgbmrlcjgQmulgWovbkg uaizr.ua
Wosbk’agkzimvz gbkgsa,gvl gbmug.k rotgiklnulruliuagkzgwvrlagbmvbgvbbul 
sagvpbuzgbmugzsrlgvl gvllrmrovbrklgkpgkszg.k rua,gvl gviikffk vbuagbmuf
bkgbmugpuuorlxgqugmvnugrlgbmragorpu:--


ggggggAuizubrgiuovlbgivooua,gubgftzbuvgirzisf
gggAtonvgbuxrb;giszæglklgrwaâgrlgfkzbugzuorlesslb;

gggggg“Rlgauizubgnvouagvl gftzbougxzknuagbmutgoru,
gggLkzg kgivzuagouvnugbmufgunulgqmulgbmutg ruj”


qmulgFvmkfubgwzkfrauagmragpkookquzagvgWvzv raugmslxgqrbmgbvwuabzt,
xro u gvl gulvfuoou gqrbmgxko gvl gwzuirksagabklua,gpszlramu gqrbm
qulimuagkpguhiuoorlxg.uvsbt,gzvzugqrlua,gvl g uorivbug ramua;grb
raguvarotg raiuzlu gbmvbgbmuaugvzug uiurnuzagbmvbgviikffk vbugbmurz
wzkfrauagbkgkszgaulasvorbt,gbkgvbbzvibgvl gvooszugsag.tgmkwuagvl 
kwrlrklagasrbv.ougbkgkszgfkzbvogvwwubrbuajgVl gtubgakfugvfklxabgsa
vzugpvooulgrlbkgbmugorcuguzzkz,gwzkfrarlxgbkgbmufauonuagvpbuzgbmu
zuaszzuibrklgvgbuzzuabzrvogvl gbufwkzvogorpu,gviikfwvlru gqrbmgvoogakzba
kpgqkzo otgiklnulruliuagvl gwouvaszuajgIvlgqug.uorunugbmvbgWovbk,gmu
qmkgmv gasimgmuvnulotgikliuwbrkla,gvl gqvagakgquoogviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmu
 rnrlrbtgvagbmuliugbkg uzrnugbmuglvfugkpgbmug rnrlugWovbk,gunuzgbmksxmb
bmvbgbmugwkkzgizuvbszu,gfvl,gmv gvltgbmrlxgrlgmrfgvwworiv.ougbkgbmvb
rlikfwzumular.ougwkquz?gvl gbmvbgmug.uorunu gbmvbgbmugquvcgmko agqugvzu
v.ougbkgbvcugquzugivwv.ou,gkzgbmugpkziugkpgkszgsl uzabvl rlxgaspprirulb,
bkgwvzbrirwvbugkpg.uvbrbs ugkzgubuzlvogwvrla?gQugamkso gbmulgbuoogmrf
pzkfgmsfvlgzuvakl:g“Rpgbmugwouvaszuagbmksg kabgwzkfraugsagrlgbmugkbmuz
orpugvzugkpgbmugavfugcrl gbmvbgRgmvnugulyktu gmuzug.uokq,gbmragmva
lkbmrlxgrlgikffklgqrbmgrlprlrbt;gbmksxmgvoogftgprnuglvbszvogaulaua
amkso g.ugunulgokv u gqrbmgwouvaszu,gvl gftgaksogpsoogkpgvoogbmu
iklbulbfulbgrbgikso gmkwugkzg uarzu,gqugclkqgqmvbgvoogbmragvfkslbagbk,
voogbmragqkso g.uglkbmrlx;grpgbmuzug.ugvltgbmrlxgkpgfrlugbmuzu,gbmuzugra
lkbmrlxg rnrlu;grpgbmrag.uglkgfkzugbmvlgqmvbgfvtg.uoklxgbkgkszgwzuaulb
ikl rbrkl,grbgivllkbg.ugkpgvltgnvosujgVoogiklbulbfulbgkpgfkzbvoagra
fkzbvojgUnulgbmugclkqou xugkpgkszgwvzulba,gimro zul,gvl gpzrul a,
rpgbmvbgivlgvppuibgvl g uorxmbgsagrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ,grpgbmvbgabroo
iklbrlsuagvgavbrapvibrklgbkgsagbmuzu,gqugabroogzufvrlgrlguvzbmotgvl 
prlrbugiklnulruliuajgQugivllkbgvagqugksxmbgikliurnugbmugxzuvbluaagkp
bmuaugmrxmgvl g rnrlugwzkfraua,grpgqugikso grlgvltgakzbgikliurnugbmuf;
bkgmvnugvgqkzbmtgrfvxrlvbrklgkpgbmufgqugfsabgrfvxrlugbmufgslrfvxrlv.ou,
rluhworiv.ou,gvl grlikfwzumular.ou,gvl gv.akosbuotgvlkbmuzgbmrlxgbmvl
bmkaugkpgkszgfrauzv.ouguhwuzruliuj”g“Utugmvbmglkbgauul,”gavrbmgAbjgWvso,
“lkzguvzgmuvz ,glurbmuzgmvbmgulbuzu grlbkgbmugmuvzbgkpgfvl,gbmugbmrlxa
bmvbgXk gmvbmgwzuwvzu gpkzgbmufgbmvbgoknugmrfj”gVl grp,gbkgzul uzgsa
ivwv.ou,gkszg.urlxgquzugzupkzfu gvl gimvlxu g(vagbmks,gWovbk,gavtuab,g.t
bmtgwszrprivbrkla),grbgksxmbgbkg.ugakguhbzufugvl gbkbvogvgimvlxu,gbmvb
.tgwmtarivog kibzrlugrbg.uglkgfkzugsa;--


ggggggMuibkzguzvbgbsligisfg.uookgiuzbv.vb;gvbgroou
gggBzvibsagv.gÆfklrkglklguzvbgMuibkzguevk;

ggggggMugMuibkzgqvagqmroabgmugikso gprxmb,g.sbgqmul
ggg zvxx’ g.tgVimrooua’gabuu a,glkgMuibkzgbmul;


rbgfsabg.ugakfubmrlxguoaugbmvbgfsabgzuiurnugbmuaugzuikfwulaua:--


ggggggEsk gfsbvbszjjjg raakonrbsz;grlbuzrbguzxk;
gggBzvyrirslbszgulrfgwvzbua,gvbesugkz rlugfrxzvlbj

gggggg“Bmrlxagimvlxu g raakonu gvzu,gvl gbmuzupkzug ru;
gggBmurzgwvzbagvzugfrh’ ,gvl gpzkfgbmurzgkz uzgpotj”


PkzgrlgWtbmvxkzva’agfubufwatimkara,gvl gbmugimvlxugkpgmv.rbvbrklgbmvb
mugrfvxrlu grlgaksoa,givlgqug.uorunugbmvbgbmugorkl,grlgqmkfgbmugaksogkp
Iæavzgraguliokau ,g kuaguawksaugIæavz’agwvaarkla,gkzgbmvbgbmugorkl
ragmu?gPkzgrpgrbgqvagabroogIæavz,gbmutgqkso g.ugrlgbmugzrxmbgqmk,
iklbzknuzbrlxgbmragkwrlrklgqrbmgWovbk,gzuwzkvimgmrfgbmvbgbmugakl
frxmbg.ugauulgbkgzr ugmragfkbmuzgbzvlapkzfu grlbkgvgfsou,gvl gbmugorcu
v.asz rbruajgVl givlgqug.uorunugbmvbgrlgbmugfsbvbrklagbmvbgvzugfv ugkp
bmug.k ruagkpgvlrfvoagrlbkgkbmuzagkpgbmugavfugcrl ,gbmugluqgikfuzagvzu
lkbgkbmuzgbmvlgbmurzgwzu uiuaakza?gPzkfgbmugvamuagkpgvgwmkulrh,gvgqkzf,
bmutgavt,gragulxul uzu ,gvl gpzkfgbmvbgvlkbmuzgwmkulrh;gqmkgivl
rfvxrlugbmvbgbmragauikl gwmkulrhgraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgbmugprzab?gQugauugksz
aroc-qkzfa,gvagrbgquzu,g rugvl gqrbmuz;gvl gpzkfgbmragqrbmuzu g.k tgv
.sbbuzpotgragwzk siu ;gvl gpzkfgbmvbgvlkbmuzgqkzf;gmkqgzr risoksagqkso 
rbg.ugbkgrfvxrlugbmvbgbmragqvagabroogbmugprzab!gBmvbgqmrimgkliugmva
iuvau gbkg.ugraglkgfkzu:--


ggggggLui,gargfvbuzrvfglkabzvfgikoouxuzrbgæbva
gggWkabgk.rbsf,gzszasfesugzu uxuzrb,gsbgarbvglsliguab,
gggVbesugrbuzsfglk.ragpsuzrlbg vbvgosfrlvgnrbæ,
gggWuzbrluvbgesr esvfgbvfulgv glkagr geskesugpvibsf,
gggRlbuzzswbvgaufuogisfgarbgzuwubulbrvglkabzvj

gggggg“Lurbmuzgbmk’gbrfugamkso gxvbmuzgvl gzuabkzu
gggKszgfvbbuzgbkgbmugpkzfgrbgqvag.upkzu,
gggVl gxrnugvxvrlgluqgorxmbgbkgauugqrbmvo,
gggQkso gbmvbgluqgprxszugsagikliuzlgvbgvoo;
gggKzgqugvxvrlgunuzgbmugavfug.ugauul,
gggKszg.urlxgmvnrlxgrlbuzzswbu g.uulj”


Vl ,gWovbk,gqmulgbmksgavtuabgrlgvlkbmuzgwoviugbmvbgrbgamvoog.ugbmu
awrzrbsvogwvzbgkpgfvlgbmvbgqroog.ugikliuzlu grlgbmugpzsrbrklgkpgbmu
zuikfwulaugkpgvlkbmuzgorpu,gbmksgbuoouabgsagvgbmrlxgqmuzurlgbmuzugragva
orbbougvwwuvzvliugkpgbzsbm:--


ggggggAiroriub,gvnkoaragzv rir.sa,gsbgluesrbgsoovf
ggg rawriuzugrwavgkisosagzuf,gaukzasfgikzwkzugbkbk;

gggggg“Lkgfkzugbmvlgutuagkliugpzkfgbmurzgkwbriagbkzl,
gggIvlgunuzgvpbuzgvltgbmrlxg raiuzl;”


pkz,g.tgbmragviikslb,grbgqkso glkgfkzug.ugfvl,glkzgiklauesulbotgsa,
qmkgqkso g.ugikliuzlu grlgbmragulyktfulb;gpkzgqugvzugikfwkau gkpgbqk
wzrlirwvoguaaulbrvogwvzba,gbmugauwvzvbrklgkpgqmrimgragbmug uvbmgvl gzsrl
kpgkszg.urlx:--


ggggggRlbuzgulrfgyuibvguabgnrbvogwvsav,gnvxuesu
ggg uuzzvzslbgwvaarfgfkbsagv.gaular.sagkflua;

gggggg“Qmulgkliugbmvbgwvsaugkpgorpugragikfug.ubquul,
ggg‘Bragysabgbmugavfugvagqugmv glunuzg.uul;”


qugivllkbgavtgbmvbgbmugfvlgasppuzagqmulgbmugqkzfagpuu gswklgmragfuf.uza,
vl gbmvbgbmuguvzbmgiklasfuagbmuf:--


ggggggUbglrmrogmkigv glka,gesrgikobsgiklysxrkesu
gggIkzwkzragvbesugvlrfægiklarabrfsagslrbuzgvwbrj

gggggg“Qmvb’agbmvbgbkgsa?gpkzgqugvzugklotgqu,
gggQmrougaksogvl g.k tgrlgklugpzvfugvxzuuj”


Fkzuknuz,gswklgqmvbgpksl vbrklgkpgbmurzgysabriugivlgbmugxk agbvcuglkbriu
kpgkzgzuqvz gfvlgvpbuzgmrag uvbmgvl gnrzbsksagvibrkla,garliugrbgqva
bmufauonuagbmvbgwsbgbmufgrlgbmugqvtgvl gfrl gbkg kgbmuf?gVl gqmtgamkso 
bmutg.ugkppul u gvbgkzgwslramgmrfgpkzgqricu gklua,garliugbmufauonuagmvnu
izuvbu grlgmrfgakgpzvrogvgikl rbrkl,gvl gqmul,gqrbmgklugxovliugkpgbmurz
qroo,gbmutgfrxmbgwzunulbgmrfgpzkfgpvoorlx?gFrxmbglkbgUwriszsa,gqrbm
xzuvbgikokszgkpgmsfvlgzuvakl,gk.yuibgbmragbkgWovbk,g r gmuglkbgkpbul
avnugmrfauopgqrbmgbmragaulbuliu:g“Bmvbgrbgragrfwkaar.ougbkguabv.oramgvlt
bmrlxgiuzbvrlgkpgbmugrffkzbvoglvbszug.tgbmugfkzbvo?”gAmug kuaglkbmrlx
.sbguzzgbmzksxmksb,g.sbguawuirvootgqmulgamugfu  ouagqrbmg rnrlugbmrlxaj
Qmkg kuagfkzugunr ulbotgwuziurnugbmragbmvlgqu?gPkzgvobmksxmgqugmvnu
xrnulgmuzgiuzbvrlgvl grlpvoor.ougwzrlirwoua;gvl gbmksxmgqugmvnu
ulorxmbulu gmuzgabuwagqrbmgbmugavizu govfwgkpgbzsbmgbmvbgrbgmvagwouvau 
Xk gbkgikffslrivbugbkgsa;gqug vrotgauu,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgrpgamugaquznu
lunuzgakgorbbougpzkfgbmugkz rlvztgwvbm;gvl gbmvbgamugabzvtgpzkf,gkz
qvl uzgksbgkpgbmugqvtgaubgksbgvl g.uvbulg.tgbmugimszim,gmkqgakklgamu
okaua,giklpksl agvl gpubbuzagmuzauop,gbsf.orlxgvl gpokvbrlxgrlgbmra
nvab,gbsz.soulb,gvl gqvnrlxgauvgkpgmsfvlgkwrlrkla,gqrbmksbgzuabzvrlb,
vl gqrbmksbgvltg ubuzfrlvbugul ;gakgakklgvagamugokauagbmvbgxzuvbgvl 
ikffklgzkv ,gamugulbuzagrlbkgvgov.tzrlbmgkpgvgbmksavl gaunuzvogwvbmaj

Fvlgivllkbg.ugvltgbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgmugra,glkzgrfvxrlug.utkl gbmugzuvimgkp
mragivwvirbtjg“Bragvgxzuvbuzgwzuasfwbrkl,”gavtagWosbvzim,g“rlgbmufgqmk
vzug.sbgfulgbkgvbbufwbgbkgawuvcgvl g raikszaugkpgbmugxk agvl g ufr-xk a
bmvlgrbgragrlgvgfvlgsbbuzotgrxlkzvlbgkpgfsarigbkgxrnugvlgkwrlrklgkp
arlxrlx;gkzgrlgvgfvlgqmkglunuzgavqgvgivfwgbkg rawsbugv.ksbgvzfagvl 
fvzbrvogvppvrza,gwzuasfrlxg.tgakfugorxmbgiklyuibszugbkgsl uzabvl gbmu
uppuibagkpgvlgvzbgmugragbkbvootgvgabzvlxuzgbkj”gVlbresrbt,gRg.uorunu,
bmksxmbgbkgwsbgvgikfworfulbgswkl,gvl gbkgv  gakfubmrlxgbk,gbmug rnrlu
xzvl uszgrlgvaarfrovbrlxgrbgbkgfvl,grlnuabrlxgrbgqrbmgmragpvisobrua,
vl gv kzlrlxgrbgqrbmgmragsxotgmsfkszagvl gfkabgamvfupsogluiuaarbrua;
kppuzrlxgrbgkszgvorfulbagbkguvb,gwzuaulbrlxgrbgqrbmgkszg vliua,
fsffuzrua,gvl gpvziua,gbkg rnuzbgrb;gqrbmgkszgnuabfulbagbkgiknuzgrb,
vl gkszgmksauagbkgrlmv.rb,gikvhrlxgrbgqrbmgbmugk kszgkpgrliulaugvl gbmu
aksl agkpgfsari,gqrbmgpuabkklagvl glkauxvta;gvl gbkgviikffk vbugrbgbk
kszgnrirksagwvaarkla,gpovbbuzrlxgrbagysabriugqrbmgrlmsfvlgnulxuvliu,gvl 
qrbmgbmugzsrlgvl g raarwvbrklgkpgbmrlxag.tgrbgizuvbu gvl gwzuauznu gva
Br.uzrsagAufwzklrsa,gqmkg.szlbgbmugzrimgawkroagvl gvzfagmugmv gxvrlu 
pzkfgbmuguluftgrlgAvz rlrvgpkzgvgavizrpriugbkgNsoivl;gvl gWvsosa
Æfrorsa,gbmkaugkpgFviu klrv,gbkgFvzagvl gFrluznv;gvl gVouhvl uz,
vzzrnrlxgvbgbmugRl rvlgKiuvl,gbmzuqgaunuzvogxzuvbgnuaauoagkpgxko grlbk
bmugauv,grlgmklkszgkpgBmubua;gvl gfkzuknuzgokv rlxgmuzgvobvzagqrbm
vgaovsxmbuzglkbgkpgrllkiulbg.uvabagklot,g.sbgkpgfulgvoak,gvagaunuzvo
lvbrkla,gvl gkszagvfklxgbmugzuab,gquzugikffklotgsau gbkg k;gvl gR
.uorunugbmuzugraglkglvbrklgsl uzgbmugaslgbmvbgmvaglkbg klugbmugavfu:--


ggggggAsofklugizuvbka
gggEsvbskzgmîigysnulua,gbkbr ufgeskagu sivbgSpula,
gggNrnulbuagzvwrb,grlpuzrvageskagrffkoubgsf.zraj

gggggg“PkszgaklagkpgAsofk,gpkszgqmkfgSpulag.zu ,
gggMugbkkcgrlgporxmb,gvl gornrlxgnribrfagou ,
gggBkgwouvaugbmugxmkabgkpgWvoova,gvl guhwrzu
gggRlgavizrpriug.upkzugmragpsl’zvogwtzuj”


BmugXubægmko gbmufauonuagbkg.ugrffkzbvo,gvl gbmvbgbmurzg uvbmgraglkbmrlx
.sbgvgykszlutgbkgbmurzgxk gDvfkohrajgUnuztgprnugtuvzagbmutg rawvbimgakfu
klugvfklxgbmufgbkgmrf,gbkgulbzuvbgkpgmrfgasimgluiuaavzruagvagbmutgabvl 
rlgluu gkpjgBmragulnktgragimkaulg.tgokb,gvl gbmugpkzfgkpg rawvbimrlx
mrf,gvpbuzgmugmvag.uulgrlabzsibu g.tgqkz gkpgfksbmgqmvbgmugragbk
 uornuz,gragbmvbgkpgbmugvaarabvlba,gbmzuugmko gswgvagfvltgyvnuorla,gswkl
qmrimgbmugzuabgbmzkqgmrag.k tgqrbmgvoogbmurzgpkziujgRpgmugmvwwulgbk
.ugqksl u grlgvgfkzbvogwvzb,gvl gbmvbgmugrffu rvbuotg rua,g‘bragmuo gv
iuzbvrlgvzxsfulbgkpg rnrlugpvnksz;g.sbgrpgmuguaivwua,gmugragokkcu gswkl
vagvgqricu gvl guhuizv.ougqzubim,gvl gvlkbmuzgrag rafraau gvpbuzgbmu
avfugfvlluzgrlgmragabuv jgVfuabzra,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgHuzhua,g.urlxgxzkql
ko ,givsau gvbgkliugpkszbuulgtkslxgful,gkpgbmug.uabgpvfroruagkpgWuzarv,
bkg.ug.szru gvornu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugzuorxrklgkpgbmugikslbzt,gbkgxzvbrpt
akfugrlpuzlvog urbtjgVl gunulgbkgbmrag vtgbmugr koagkpgBmufrhbrbvl
vzugiufulbu gqrbmgbmug.okk gkpgorbbougimro zul,gvl gbmutg uorxmbgrlglk
avizrpriug.sbgkpgbmuaugwszugvl grlpvlbrlugaksoa;gvgysabriugbmrzabtgkp
rllkiulbg.okk :--


gggBvlbsfgzuorxrkgwkbsrbgasv uzugfvokzvfj

ggg“Asimgrfwrksagsaugqvagkpgzuorxrklgfv u,
gggAkgfvltg ufklgvibagrbgikso gwuzasv uj”


BmugIvzbmvxrlrvlagrffkovbu gbmurzgkqlgimro zulgbkgAvbszl;gvl gbmkaugqmk
mv glklugkpgbmurzgkqlg.ksxmbgkpgkbmuza,gbmugpvbmuzgvl gfkbmuzg.urlxgrl
bmugfuvlgbrfugk.orxu gbkgvaarabgvbgbmugiuzufkltgqrbmgvgxvtgvl giklbulbu 
ikslbulvliuj

Rbgqvagvgabzvlxugpvlitgbkgbmrlcgbkgxzvbrptgbmug rnrlug.kslbtgqrbmgksz
vpporibrkla;gorcugbmugOviu ufklrvla,gqmkgzuxvou gbmurzg rvlvgqrbmgbmu
bkzfulbrlxgkpgtkslxg.kta,gqmkfgbmutgivsau gbkg.ugqmrwwu gpkzgmuzgavcu,
nuztgkpbulgbkg uvbmjgRbgqvagvgavnvxugmsfkszgbkgrfvxrlugbkgxzvbrptgbmu
vzimrbuibg.tgbmugas.nuzarklgkpgmrag.sro rlx,gvl gbkgbmrlcgbkgbvcugvqvt
bmugwslramfulbg sugbkgbmugxsrobtg.tgwslramrlxgbmugrllkiulb;gvl gbmvb
wkkzgRwmrxulrv,gvbgbmugwkzbgkpgVsora,gamkso g.tgmuzg uvbmgvl grffkovbrkl
viesrb,gbkqvz agXk ,gbmugqmkougvzftgkpgbmugXzuucagpzkfgvoogbmugizrfua
bmutgmv gikffrbbu ;


ggggggUbgivabvgrliuabu,gls.ul rgbufwkzugrlgrwak,
gggMkabrvgiklir uzubgfvibvbsgfkabvgwvzulbra;

gggggg“Bmvbgbmugimvabugnrzxrlgrlgmuzglswbrvog.vl 
gggAmkso g rug.tgvlgsllvb’zvogpvbmuz’agmvl ;”


vl gbmvbgbmugbqkglk.ougvl gxuluzksagaksoagkpgbmugbqkg uirr,gbmugpvbmuz
vl gbmugakl,gbkgrliorlugbmugpvnkszgkpgbmugxk agbkg.ugwzkwrbrksagbkgbmu
vppvrzagkpgZkfu,gamkso gbmzkqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgrlbkgbmugbmricuabgkp
bmuguluft:g_Eskgpsrbgbvlbvg ukzsfgrlresrbva,gsbgwovivzrgwkwsokgZkfvlk
lklgwkaaulb,glrargbvouagnrzrgkiir raaulb?_g“Mkqgxzuvbgvlgrlysabriugrl
bmugxk agqvagrbgbmvbgbmutgikso glkbg.ugzuiklirou gbkgbmugwukwougkpgZkfu
slouaagasimgfulgwuzramu !”gBkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,gbmvbgrbgraglkbgpkzgbmu
izrfrlvogbkgivsaugmrfauopgbkg.ugaikszxu gviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgfuvaszu
lkzgvbgmragkqlgbrfu,g.sbgbmvbgrbgwszuotg.uoklxagbkgbmugys xu,gqmk
iklar uzaglkbmrlxgvagimvabraufulbag.sbgbmugwulvobtgbmvbgmugvwwkrlba,gvl 
ivllkbgivoogbmvbgwslramfulbgqmrimgwzkiuu agpzkfgbmugiklaulbgkpgmrfgbmvb
asppuzajgBmug rnrlugnulxuvliugwzuaswwkauagvlgv.akosbug raaulbgrlgsa,
.kbmgpkzgrbagysabriugvl gpkzgkszgkqlgwulvobtjgVl gbmuzupkzugrbgqvagv
zr risoksagmsfkszgkpgWkotizvbua,gbtzvlbgkpgAvfka,gqmk,gbkgrlbuzzswbgbmu
iklbrlsu gikszaugkpgmragxkk gpkzbslu,gvl gbkg.vovliugrb,gqulbgvl gbmzuq
bmug uvzuabgvl gfkabgwzuirksagyuquogmugmv grlbkgbmugauv,g.uorunrlx
bmvbg.tgbmragnkoslbvztgvl gvlbu vbu gframvwgmug.zr.u gvl gavbrapru 
bmugzunkosbrklgvl gnriraarbs ugkpgpkzbslu;gvl gamu,gbkgfkicgmragpkoot,
kz uzu grbgakgbmvbgbmugavfugyuquogivfugvxvrlgrlbkgmragmvl a,gpksl 
rlgbmug.uootgkpgvgpramjgVl gbmulgbkgqmvbgul gquzugbmkaugbuvzrlxagvl 
 rafuf.uzfulbagkpgbmugIkzt.vlbua,gbmugFulv ua,gvl ,grlgkszgbrfua,gkpgbmu
Fvmkfubvla,gqmkgaovamgbmurzgpviua,g.kakfa,gvl gorf.a,gbkgxzvbrptgbmurz
wzkwmub;gauurlxgbmvbgbmugkppuliugoruagrlgbmugqroo,glkbgrlgbmug.zuvab,
utua,gxulrbvoa,gzksl luaagkpgpkzf,gbmugamkso uza,gkzgbmugbmzkvb?
_Bvlbsaguabgwuzbsz.âbkgfulbra,gubgau r.sagasragwroak,gpszkz,gsbgarig rr
woviulbsz,gesufv fk sfglugmkfrluagesr ufgaknrslbj_g“Akgxzuvbgragbmu
psztgvl gfv luaagkpgbzks.ou gfrl agqmulgkliug rawoviu gpzkfgbmugauvbgkp
zuvakl,gvagrpgbmugxk agamkso g.ugvwwuvau gqrbmgqmvbgunulgfulgvzuglkbgak
izsuogvagbkgvwwzknuj”gBmugsaugkpgbmraglvbszvogiklbuhbszugmvaglkbgklot
zuawuibgbkgsa,g.sbgvoakgbkgbmugauznriugkpgXk gvl gkbmuzgful;g‘bragva
slysabgpkzgsagnkoslbvzrotgbkgqksl gkzgmszbgrbgvagbkgcroogkszauonuagswkl
vltgwzubuliugqmvbunuz;grbgauufagbkg.ugxzuvbgikqvz riugvl gbzuvaklgbk
uhuziraugizsuobtgswkl,gvl gbkg uabzkt,gbmugpslibrklagkpgbmug.k tgbmvb
vzugabswr gvl gauznrou,gbkgawvzugbmugaksogbmugakorirbs ugkpgxknuzlrlx
bmufgviikz rlxgbkgzuvakl:g_S.rgrzvbkag ukagbrfulb,gesrgarigwzkwrbrka
mv.uzugfuzulbsz?gRlgzuxrægor.r rlragnkoswbvbufgivabzvbrgaslbgesr vf;
au glufkgar.r,glugnrzguaaub,gys.ulbug kfrlk,gfvlbragrlbsorbj_g“Qmuzugvzu
bmutgakgvpzvr gkpgbmugvlxuzgkpgbmugxk agvagbkgfuzrbgbmurzgpvnkszgvbgbmvb
zvbu?gAkfu,grl uu ,gmvnug.uulgfv uguslsimagpkzgbmugosabgkpgwzrliua:g.sb
lkgfvlgvbgmragfvabuz’agikffvl gmvagwsbgmragkqlgmvl gbkgslfvlgmrfauopj”
gAkg r gbmutgproogbmurzgzuorxrklgqrbmgaunuzvogrooguppuiba:--


gggAæwrsagkorfgZuorxrkgwuwuzrbgaiuouzkavgvbesugrfwrvgpvibvj

ggg“Rlguo uzgbrfuagZuorxrklg r gikffrbgfkabgpuvzpsogizrfuaj”


Lkqglkbmrlxgkpgkszagivlgrlgvltgakzbg.ugikfwvzu gkzgorculu gslbk
bmug rnrluglvbszu,gqmrimgqrooglkbg.ouframgvl gabvrlgrbgqrbmgfsim
rfwuzpuibrklj

Mkqgivlgbmvbgrlprlrbug.uvsbt,gwkquz,gvl gxkk luaa,gv frbgkpgvlt
ikzzuawkl uliugkzgarfrorbs ugbkgasimgv.yuibgbmrlxagvagqugvzu,gqrbmksb
uhbzufugqzklxgvl gfvlrpuabg ramklkszgbkgmrag rnrlugxzuvbluaa?g_Rlprzfsf
 urgpkzbrsaguabgmkfrlr.a;gubgabsobsfg urgavwrulbrsaguabgmkfrlr.saj_g“Pkz
bmugpkkoramluaagkpgXk gragqrauzgbmvlgful,gvl gbmugquvcluaagkpgXk gra
abzklxuzgbmvlgfulj”gAbrowk,gbmugwmrokakwmuz,g.urlxgvacu ,g“Qmubmuz
bmugxk agquzug uorxmbu gqrbmgkszgv kzvbrklagvl gavizrpriua?”--“Tksgvzu
rl raizuub,”gvlaquzu gmu;g“oubgsagqrbm zvqgvwvzb,grpgtksgqkso gbvocgkp
asimgbmrlxaj”gLunuzbmuouaa,gqugwzuaizr.ugmrfg.ksl a,gqugcuuwgmragwkquz
.uaruxu g.tgkszgzuvaklag(Rgivoogkszgzvnrlxagvl g zuvfagzuvakl,gqrbmgbmu
 rawulavbrklgkpgwmrokakwmt,gqmrimgavta,g“Bmvbgbmugqricu gfvl,gvl gunul
bmugpkko,gxkgfv g.tgzuvakl,g.sbgvgwvzbrisovzgpkzfgkpgzuvakl”),gqu
qkso gas.yuibgmrfgbkgbmugnvrlgvl gpuu.ougvwwuvzvliuagkpgksz
sl uzabvl rlxa,--mrfgqmkgmvagfv ug.kbmgsagvl gkszgclkqou xujg.uivsau
bmvbglkbmrlxgragfv ugkpglkbmrlx,gXk gbmuzupkzugikso glkbgfvcugbmugqkzo 
qrbmksbgfvbbuzjgQmvb!gmvagXk gwsbgrlbkgkszgmvl agbmugcutagvl gfkab
auizubgawzrlxagkpgmragwkquz?gRagmugk.orxu glkbgbkguhiuu gbmugorfrbagkp
kszgclkqou xu?gWsbgbmugivau,gKgfvl!gbmvbgbmksgmvabg.uulgv.ougmuzugbk
fvzcgakfugpkkbabuwagkpgmraguppuiba;g kabgbmksgbmuzupkzugbmrlcgbmvbgmu
mvagufwoktu gvoogmugivl,gvl gmvagizkq u gvoogmragpkzfagvl gr uvagrlgbmra
qkzc?gBmksgauuabglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugkz uzgvl gzunkosbrklgkpgbmragorbbou
ivnugrlgqmrimgbmksgvzbgok xu ,grp,grl uu ,gbmksg kabgauugakgfsim;
qmuzuvagmrag rnrlrbtgmvagvlgrlprlrbugyszra ribrklg.utkl jgBmragwvzbgra
lkbmrlxgrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugqmkou:--


ggggggKflrvgisfgikok,gbuzzàesu,gfvlesu,
gggLrogaslbgv gasffvfgasffvogbkbrsagkflufj

gggggg“Bmuguvzbm,gbmugauv,gvl gacrua,gpzkfgwkougbkgwkou,
gggVzugafvoo,glvt,glkbmrlxgbkgbmugfrxmbtgqmkouj”


‘Bragvgfslrirwvogovqgbmvbgbmksgvoouxuab,gbmksgclkquabglkbgqmvbgra
slrnuzavogBrugbmtauopgbkgbmvbgbkgqmrimgbmksgvzbgas.yuib,g.sbglkbgmrf;gmu
raglkbgkpgbmtg.zkbmuzmkk ,gbmtgpuookq-irbrdul,gkzgikfwvlrkljgRpgmugmva
rlgakfugakzbgikffslrivbu gmrfauopgslbkgbmuu,g‘braglkbgbkg u.vaugmrfauop
slbkgbmtgorbbouluaa,glkzgbkgfvcugbmuugikfwbzkoouzgkpgmragwkquz;gbmu
msfvlg.k tgivllkbgpotgbkgbmugioks a;gzsouagvzugpkzgbmuujgBmugaslgzsla
unuztg vtgmragkz rlvztgikszau;gbmug.ksl agkpgbmugauvgvl gbmuguvzbm
ivllkbg.ugiklpksl u ;gbmugqvbuzgragslabv.ougvl gqrbmksbgprzfluaa;gv
qvoo,gslouaagrbg.ug.zkcul,gragrfwulubzv.ougbkgvgakor g.k t;gvgfvlgivllkb
wzuauznugmragorpugrlgbmugpovfua;gmugivllkbg.ug.kbmgrlgmuvnulgvl gswkl
uvzbm,gvl gikzwkzvootgrlgvgbmksavl gwoviuagvbgkliujg‘Bragpkzgbmuugbmvb
mugmvagfv ugbmuaugzsoua;g‘bragbmuugbmvbgbmutgikliuzl;gmugmvagfvlrpuabu 
bkgImzrabrvlagbmvbgmugmvagulpzvlimrau gmrfauopgpzkfgbmufgvoogqmulgrb
wouvau gmrfjgVl ,grlgbzsbm,gqmt,gvofrxmbtgvagmugra,gamkso gmugmvnu
orfrbu gmragwkquzgqrbmrlgvltgiuzbvrlg.ksl a?gRlgpvnkszgkpgqmkfgamkso gmu
mvnugzulksliu gmragwzrnrouxu?gBmtgzuvaklgmvagrlglkgkbmuzgbmrlxgfkzugkp
orcuormkk gvl gpksl vbrklgbmvlgrlgbmvbgqmuzurlgrbgwuzasv uagbmuugbmvb
bmuzugragvgwoszvorbtgkpgqkzo a:--


ggggggBuzzvfesugubgakouf,goslvf,gfvzu,guabuzvgeskgzvlb,
gggLklguaaugslriv,gau glsfézkgfvxragrllsfuzvorj

gggggg“Bmvbguvzbm,gasl,gfkkl,gauv,gvl gbmugzuabgbmvbgvzu,
gggLkbgarlxou,g.sbgrllsfuzv.ougquzuj”


Bmugfkabgufrlulbgfrl agkpguo uzgbrfuag.uorunu grb;gvl gakfugkpgbmra
vxugkpgksza,gikfwuoou g.tgbmugvwwuvzvliuagkpgmsfvlgzuvakl,g kgbmugavfu;
pkzvafsimgvagrlgbmragpv.zrigbmvbgqug.umko gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgarlxougvl 
klu,


ggggggIsfgrlgasffàgzuaglsoovgarbgslv,
gggSlrivgeskgxrxlvbsz,gubgslrivgakovesugizuaivb;

gggggg“Arliuglkbmrlx’agarlxougrlgbmragfrxmbtgwoviu,
gggBmvbgivlgvoklug.uxub,gvoklugrlizuvau;”


vl gbmvbgvoogbmugcrl agvzugfsobrworu grlgakfuglsf.uz;g.tgqmrimgrbgauufa
lkbgbkg.ugorcuotgbmvbgXk gamkso gmvnugfv ugbmragqkzcgklotgqrbmksbgv
ikfwvlrkl;gvl gbmvbgbmugfvbbuzgkpgbmragpkzfgamkso gmvnug.uulgbkbvoot
 zvrlu grlgbmragrl rnr svoj


ggggggEsvzugubrvfgvbesugubrvfgbvouagpvbuvzugluiuaauguab
gggUaaugvorkagvor.rgiklxzuaasagfvbuzrvor;
gggEsvoragmriguab,gvnr kgikfwouhsgesufgbulubgæbmuzj

gggggg“Qmuzupkzug‘bragluiuaavztgbkgiklpuaa
gggBmvbgbmuzugfsabguoauqmuzug.ugbmugorcugiklxzuaa
gggKpgbmugorcugfvbbuz,gqmrimgbmugvrztgawviu
gggMko agpvabgqrbmrlgrbagrlprlrbuguf.zviuj”


Uawuirvootgrpgrbg.ugvgornrlxgizuvbszu,gqmrimgrbagfkbrklagzul uzgak
izu r.ougbmvbgWovbkgvpprzfagrb,gvl gbmvbgfvltgkpgkszgwukwoug kgurbmuz
iklprzf,gkzg vzuglkbg ultgrb;glkgfkzugbmvlgbmvbgvlirulbgkwrlrklgbmvb
bmugmuvnula,gbmugabvza,gvl gkbmuzgfuf.uzagkpgbmugqkzo ,gvzugizuvbszua
ikfwkau gkpg.k tgvl gakso,gfkzbvogrlgzuawuibgkpgbmurzgikfwkarbrkl,
.sbgrffkzbvog.tgbmug ubuzfrlvbrklgkpgbmugIzuvbkzjgLkqgrpgbmuzug.ugfvlt
qkzo a,gvag ufkizrbsa,gUwriszsa,gvl gvofkabgvoogwmrokakwmtgmvag.uorunu ,
qmvbg kgqugclkqgbmvbgbmugwzrlirwouagvl gzsouagkpgbmragkpgkszagrlgorcu
fvlluzgikliuzlgbmugzuab?gBmutgfvtgwuzv nulbszugmvnugvlkbmuzgpkzfgvl 
vlkbmuzgwkorbtjgUwriszsagaswwkauagbmufgurbmuzgorcugkzgslorcujgQugauu
rlgbmragqkzo gvlgrlprlrbug rppuzuliugvl gnvzrubt,gklotg.tg rabvliugkp
woviua;glurbmuzgikf,gqrlu,glkzgvltgkpgkszgvlrfvoagvzugbkg.ugauulgrlgbmvb
luqgikfuzgkpgbmugqkzo g raiknuzu g.tgkszgpvbmuza;g‘bragvoogbmuzugvlkbmuz
bmrlx;gvl grlgbrfuagwvab,g kg.sbgiklar uzgrlgmkqgfvltgwvzbagkpgbmugqkzo 
bmutgmv glkgclkqou xugurbmuzgkpg.viimsagkzgIuzuajgRpgWorltgvl gMuzk kbsa
vzugbkg.ug.uorunu ,gbmuzugvzugrlgiuzbvrlgwoviuagcrl agkpgfulgnuztgorbbou
zuauf.orlxgsa,gfklxzuogvl gvf.rxsksagpkzfa,g.ubqrhbgbmugmsfvlgvl g.zsbvo
lvbszua;gbmuzugvzugikslbzruagqmuzugfulgvzug.kfgqrbmksbgmuv a,gmvnrlx
bmurzgfksbmgvl gutuagrlgbmurzg.zuvab;gqmuzugbmutgvzugvoogmuzfvwmzk rbua;
qmuzugbmutgxkgklgvoogpksz;gqmuzugbmutgmvnug.sbgklugutugrlgbmugpkzumuv ,
vl gvgmuv gfkzugorcugvg kxgbmvlgorcugksza;gqmuzugbmutgvzugmvopgpramgbmu
okquzgwvzb,gvl gornugrlgbmugqvbuz;gqmuzugbmugqkfulg.uvzgvbgprnugtuvza
ko ,gvl gornug.sbgurxmb;gqmuzugbmugmuv gvl gbmugacrlgkpgbmugpkzumuv gra
akgmvz gbmvbgvgaqkz gqrooglkbgbksimgrb,g.sbgzu.ksl agvxvrl;gqmuzugful
mvnuglkg.uvz a;glvbrklagbmvbgclkqglkbgbmugsaugkpgprzu;gkbmuzagbmvbguyuib
auu gkpgvg.ovicgikokszjgQmvbgamvoogqugavtgkpgbmkaugbmvbglvbszvootgimvlxu
bmufauonuagrlbkgqkonua,gikoba,gvl gbmulgrlbkgfulgvxvrl?gVl grpgrbg.u
bzsu,gvagWosbvzimgavta,gbmvbgrlgakfugwoviugkpgbmugRl ruagbmuzugvzugful
qrbmksbgfksbma,gqmkglkszramgbmufauonuagqrbmgbmugafuoogkpgiuzbvrlgk ksza,
mkqgfvltgkpgkszg uaizrwbrklagvzugpvoau?gMugraglkgoklxuzgzrar.ou,glkz,
wuzmvwa,givwv.ougkpgzuvaklgvl gakirubtjgBmug rawkarbrklgvl givsaugkpgksz
rlbuzlvogikfwkarbrklgqkso gbmulgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbg.ugbkglkgwszwkau,gvl 
kpglkgsauj

Fkzuknuz,gmkqgfvltgbmrlxagvzugbmuzugrlgkszgkqlgclkqou xugbmvbgkwwkau
bmkaugprlugzsouagqugmvnugisbgksbgpkzgvl gwzuaizr.ugbkglvbszu?gVl gtubgqu
fsabgsl uzbvcugbkgirzisfaizr.ugbmuzubkgXk gmrfauop!gMkqgfvltgbmrlxag k
qugivoogfrzvisoksa,gvl giklbzvztgbkglvbszu?gBmragrag klug.tgunuztglvbrkl
vl g.tgunuztgfvl,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzkwkzbrklgkpgmragrxlkzvliujgMkqgfvlt
kiisobgwzkwuzbruagvl gesrlbuaauliuag kgqug vrotg raiknuz?gPkz,gpkzgsa
bkgxkg“viikz rlxgbkglvbszu,”graglkgfkzug.sbgbkgxkg“viikz rlxgbkgksz
sl uzabvl rlx,”gvagpvzgvagbmvbgragv.ougbkgpkookq,gvl gvagpvzgvagqu
vzugv.ougbkgauugrlbkgrb;gvoog.utkl gbmvbgra,gpkzakkbm,gfklabzksagvl 
rzzuxsovzjgLkq,g.tgbmragviikslb,gvoogbmrlxagamvoog.ugfklabzksagbkgbmu
qrauabgvl gfkabgsl uzabvl rlxgful;gpkzgmsfvlgzuvaklgmvagwuzasv u gbmuf
bmvbgbmuzugqvaglkgfvlluzgkpgxzksl glkzgpksl vbrkl,glkbgakgfsimgvagbkg.u
vaaszu gbmvbgalkqgragqmrbu,gvl gVlvhvxkzvagvpprzfu grbgbkg.ug.ovic;grp
bmuzug.ugvltgbmrlx,gkzgrpgbmuzug.uglkbmrlx;grpgbmuzug.ugclkqou xu
kzgrxlkzvliu,gqmrimgFubzk kzsagkpgImrkag ulru gbmvbgfvlgqvagv.ougbk
 ubuzfrlu;gkzgqmubmuzgqugornu,gvagUszrwr uag ks.bagqmubmuzgbmugorpugqu
ornugragorpu,gkzgqmubmuzgbmvbgqugivoog uvbmg.uglkbgorpu,g[--Xzuuc--]
vl glkbgqrbmksbgakfugvwwuvzvliujgPkzgqmtg kgqug uzrnugbmugbrbougkpg.urlx
pzkfgbmragrlabvlb,gqmrimgrag.sbgvgpovamgrlgbmugrlprlrbugikszaugkpgvl
ubuzlvoglrxmb,gvl gakgamkzbgvlgrlbuzzswbrklgkpgkszgwuzwubsvogvl glvbszvo
ikl rbrkl,g uvbmgwkaauaarlxgvoogbmug.upkzugvl gvpbuzgbmragfkfulb,gvl 
voakgvgxkk gwvzbgkpgbmugfkfulbgrbauopjgKbmuzagaquvzgbmuzugraglkgfkbrkl
vbgvoo,gvagpkookquzagkpgFuoraasa,gvl gbmvbglkbmrlxgabrzajgPkzgrpgbmuzu
.ug.sbgklu,glurbmuzgivlgbmvbgawmuzrivogfkbrklg.ugkpgvltgsaugbkgmrf,
lkzgfkbrklgpzkfgklugwoviugbkgvlkbmuz,gvagWovbkgwzknua:g“Bmvbgbmuzugra
lurbmuzgxuluzvbrklglkzgikzzswbrklgrlglvbszuj”gWzkbvxkzvagavtagbmvbgbmuzu
raglkbmrlxgrlglvbszug.sbg ks.b;gbmvbgvgfvlgfvtguesvootg rawsbugkpgvoo
bmrlxa;gvl gunulgkpgbmra,gqmubmuzgvgfvlgivlguesvootg rawsbugkpgvoo
bmrlxa;gLvsarwmvlua,gbmvbgkpgbmrlxagqmrimgauufgbkg.u,glkbmrlxgra
fkzugbmvlgrbgraglkb;gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgiuzbvrlg.sbgsliuzbvrlbt;
Wvzfulr ua,gbmvbgkpgbmvbgqmrimgauufa,gbmuzugraglkgklugbmrlxgrlgxuluzvo;
bmvbgbmuzugrag.sbgklugbmrlx;gDulk,gbmvbgklugavfugraglkb,gvl gbmvbgbmuzu
raglkbmrlx;grpgbmuzugquzugklugbmrlx,grbgqkso gurbmuzg.ugrlgvlkbmuzgkzgrl
rbauop;grpgrbg.ugrlgvlkbmuz,gbmutgvzugbqk;grpgrbg.ugrlgrbauop,gbmutgvzu
tubgbqk;gbmugikfwzumul rlx,gvl gbmugikfwzumul u jgViikz rlxgbkgbmuau
 kibzrluagbmuglvbszugkpgbmrlxagraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgvgamv kq,gurbmuzgpvoau
kzgnvrlj

BmragqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgrlgvgImzrabrvlgfvlgmvagunuzgauufu gbkgfugnuzt
rl raizuubgvl grzzunuzulbjg“Xk givllkbg ru;gXk givllkbgiklbzv rib
mrfauop;gXk givllkbg kgbmragkzgbmvbj”gRg kglkbgorcugbkgmvnugbmug rnrlu
wkquzgakgorfrbu g.tgbmugovqagkpgful’agfksbma;gvl gbmugr uvgqmrim
wzuaulbagrbauopgbkgsagrlgbmkaugwzkwkarbrklagksxmbgbkg.ugfkzugzuorxrksaot
vl gzunuzulbotguhwzuaau j

Kszgawuvcrlxgmvagrbagpvrorlxagvl g upuiba,gvagquoogvagvoogbmugzuabjgFkab
kpgbmugkiivarklagkpg rabsz.vliugrlgbmugqkzo gvzugxzvffvbrivogklua;gksz
asrbagklotgawzrlxgpzkfg rawsbuagvagbkgbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgovqa;gvl 
fkabgqvzagwzkiuu gpzkfgbmugrlv.rorbtgkpgfrlrabuzagiouvzotgbkguhwzuaagbmu
iklnulbrklagvl gbzuvbruagkpgvfrbtgkpgwzrliuajgMkqgfvltgesvzzuoa,gvl 
kpgmkqgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliu,gmvagbmug ks.bgkpgbmugfuvlrlxgkpgbmragatoov.ou,
_mki_,*gizuvbu grlgbmugqkzo ?gOubgsagbvcugbmugiouvzuabgikliosarklgbmvb
okxrigrbauop


ggg*gFklbvrxlugmuzugzupuzagbkgbmugiklbzknuzaruag.ubquul
gggggbmugIvbmkoriagvl gWzkbuabvlbagv.ksbgbzvlas.abvlbrvbrklj


wzuaulbagsagqrbmvo;grpgtksgavt,g“Rbgragprlugquvbmuz,”gvl gbmvbgtks
avtgbzsu,grbgragbmulgprlugquvbmuzjgRaglkbgbmragvgnuztgiuzbvrlgpkzfgkp
awuvcrlx?gVl gtubgrbgqroog uiurnugsa;gbmvbgrbgqroog kgak,goubgsagpkookq
bmuguhvfwou:gRpgtksgavt,g“Rgoru,”grpgtksgavtgbzsu,gtksg kgorujgBmugvzb,
bmugzuvakl,gvl gpkziugkpgbmugikliosarklgkpgbmra,gvzugbmugavfugqrbmgbmu
kbmuz,gvl gtubgqugvzugxzvnuoou jgBmugWtzzmklrvlgwmrokakwmuza,gRgauu,
ivllkbguhwzuaagbmurzgxuluzvogikliuwbrklgrlgvltgcrl gkpgawuvcrlx;gpkz
bmutgqkso gzuesrzugvgluqgovlxsvxugklgwszwkau;gkszagragvoogpkzfu gkp
vpprzfvbrnugwzkwkarbrkla,gqmrimgvzugbkbvootgvlbvzibrigbkgbmuf;grlakfsim
bmvbgqmulgbmutgavtg“Rg ks.b,”gbmutgvzugwzuaulbotgbvculg.tgbmugbmzkvb,gbk
fvcugbmufgiklpuaagbmvbgvbgouvabgbmutgclkqgvl gvzugvaaszu gbmvbgbmutg k
 ks.bjg.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmutgmvnug.uulgikfwuoou gbkgamuobuzgbmufauonua
sl uzgbmragfu rivogikfwvzrakl,gqrbmksbgqmrimgbmurzgmsfkszgqkso g.u
rluhworiv.ou:gqmulgbmutgwzklksliu,g“Rgclkqglkb,”gkz,g“Rg ks.b,”gbmutgavt
bmvbgbmragwzkwkarbrklgivzzruagkppgrbauopgqrbmgbmugzuab,glkgfkzuglkzgouaa
bmvlgzms.vz.,gbmvbg zrnuagksbgbmugroogmsfksza,gvl givzzruagrbauop
kppgqrbmgbmufjgBmragpvlitgqroog.ugfkzugiuzbvrlotgsl uzabkk g.t
rlbuzzkxvbrkl:g“Qmvbg kgRgclkq?”gvagRg.uvzgrbgqrbmgbmuguf.oufgkpgv
.vovliuj

Auugqmvbgsaugbmutgfvcugkpgbmragrzzunuzulbgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx;grlgbmu
wzuaulbg rawsbuagv.ksbgkszgzuorxrkl,grpgtksgwzuaagrbagv nuzavzruagbkk
mvz ,gbmutgqroogzksl otgbuoogtks,g“bmvbgrbgraglkbgrlgbmugwkquzgkpgXk gbk
fvcugrbgak,gbmvbgmrag.k tgamkso g.ugrlgwvzv raugvl gswklguvzbm,gvl grl
aunuzvogwoviuagvbgkliuj”gVl gauu,gbkk,gqmvbgv nvlbvxugbmugko gaikppuz
fv ugkpgbmrajg“Vbgouvab,”gavtagmu,g“rbgraglkgorbbougiklakovbrklgbkgfvl
bkgauugbmvbgXk givllkbg kgvoogbmrlxa;gpkzgmugivllkbgcroogmrfauop,gbmksxm
mugqkso ;gqmrimgragbmugxzuvbuabgwzrnrouxugqugmvnugrlgkszgikl rbrkl;gmu
ivllkbgfvcugfkzbvogrffkzbvo,glkzgzunrnugbmug uv ;glkzgfvcugrbgak,gbmvb
mugqmkgmvagornu gmvaglkb;glkzgbmvbgmugqmkgmvagmv gmklkszagmvaglkbgmv 
bmuf;gmvnrlxglkgkbmuzgzrxmbgbkgbmugwvabgbmvlgbmvbgkpgk.ornrklj”gVl gbmvb
bmugikfwvzraklgkpgfvlgbkgXk gfvtgtubg.ugfv ugksbg.tgykikauguhvfwoua:g“Mu
ivllkbgkz uzgrbgak,”gavtagmu,g“bmvbgbqriugbulgamvooglkbg.ugbqulbtj”
gBmragragqmvbgmugavta,gvl gqmvbgvgImzrabrvlgksxmbgbkgbvcugmuu gamvooglkb
uaivwugmragorwajgQmuzuva,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,grbgauufagvagrpgfulgabs ru 
bmragpkkoramg vzrlxgkpgovlxsvxu,gbkgzu siugXk gbkgbmurzgkqlgfuvaszu:--


ggggggIzvagnuogvbzâgLs.ugwkosf,gWvbuz,gkiiswvbk,
gggNuogakougwszk;glklgbvfulgrzzrbsf
gggEsk isfesugzubzkguabgupprirub,gluesu
ggg rpprlxubgrlpuibsfesugzu  ub
gggEsk gpsxrulagaufuogmkzvgnuhrbj

gggggg“Bk-fkzzkq,goubgrbgamrlugkzgzvrl,
gggTubgivllkbgbmragbmugwvabgfvcugnvrl:
gggLkzgslizuvbugvl gzul uzgnkr 
gggBmvbgqmrimgqvagtuabuz vtgulyktu j”


Qmulgqugavtgbmvbgbmugrlprlrbtgkpgvxua,gvagquoogwvabgvagbkgikfu,gvzug.sb
klugrlabvlbgqrbmgXk ;gbmvbgmragxkk luaa,gqra kf,gvl gwkquzgvzugbmugavfu
qrbmgmraguaauliu;gkszgfksbmagawuvcgrb,g.sbgkszgsl uzabvl rlxagvwwzumul 
rbglkb;gvl gtub,gasimgragkszgnvrlgkwrlrklgkpgkszauonua,gbmvbgqugfsab
fvcugbmug rnrlrbtgbkgwvaagbmzksxmgkszgarunu;gvl gbmuliugwzkiuu gvoogbmu
 zuvfagvl guzzkzagqrbmgqmrimgbmugqkzo gv.ksl a,gqmroabgqugzu siugvl 
qurxmgrlgkszg.vovliugvgbmrlxgakgpvzgv.knugkszgwkraujg_Frzsfgeskgwzkié vb
rfwzk.rbvagikz ragmsfvlr,gwvznsokgvoreskgrlbzrbvbvgasiiuaasj_g“‘Bra
qkl uzpsogbkgqmvbgbmugqricu luaagkpgfvl’agmuvzbgqroogwzkiuu ,grp
uounvbu gqrbmgbmugouvabgasiiuaaj”gMkqgfvxrabuzrvootgvl grlakoulbotg kua
UwriszsagzuwzknugbmugAbkria,gpkzgfvrlbvrlrlxgbmvbgbmugbzsotgxkk gvl 
mvwwtg.urlxgvwwuzbvrlu gklotgbkgXk ,gvl gbmvbgbmugqraugfvlgmv glkbmrlx
.sbgvgamv kqgvl gzuauf.ovliugkpgrb!gMkqgbufuzvzrksaotgmvnugbmutg.ksl 
Xk gbkg uabrltg(vgbmrlxgqmrim,g.tgftgiklaulb,glklugbmvbg.uvzagbmuglvfu
kpgvgImzrabrvlgamvoogunuzg kgvxvrl)!gvl gBmvoua,gWovbk,gvl gWtbmvxkzva
mvnugulaovnu gmrfgbkgluiuaarbtjgBmragvzzkxvliugkpgvbbufwbrlxgbkg raiknuz
Xk gqrbmgkszgutuagmvag.uulgbmugivsaugbmvbgvlgufrlulbgwuzaklgvfklxgsagmva
vbbzr.sbu gbkgbmug rnrlrbtgvgikzwkzvogpkzf;gvl gragbmugzuvaklgkpgqmvb
mvwwulagbkgsagunuztg vt,gkpgvbbzr.sbrlxgbkgXk grfwkzbvlbgunulba,g.tgv
wvzbrisovzgvaarxlfulbjg.uivsaugbmutgqurxmgqrbmgsa,gbmutgiklios ugbmvb
bmutgvoakgqurxmgqrbmgmrf,gvl gbmvbgmugmvagvgfkzugrlbulbgvl gnrxrovlb
zuxvz gbkgbmufgbmvlgbkgkbmuzagkpgouaagfkfulbgbkgsagkzgkpgkz rlvzt
ikszau:g_Fvxlvg rrgiszvlb,gwvznvgluxorxslb:_g“Bmugxk agvzugikliuzlu gvb
xzuvbgfvbbuza,g.sbgaorxmbgbmugafvooj”gOrabulgbkgmrf;gmugqroogiouvzgbmra
bkgtksg.tgmragzuvakl:g_Luigrlgzuxlragesr ufgzuxuagkflrvgfrlrfvgiszvlb:_
“Lurbmuzgrl uu g kgcrlxagrlgbmurzgv frlrabzvbrklgbvcuglkbriugkpgvoogbmu
ouvabgikliuzlaj”gVagrpgbkgbmvbgCrlxgkpgcrlxagrbgquzugfkzugkzgouaa
bkgas.nuzbgvgcrlx kf,gkzgbkgfknugbmugouvpgkpgvgbzuu;gkzgvagrpgmra
wzknr uliugvibu gvpbuzgvlkbmuzgfvlluzgrlgrliorlrlxgbmugunulbgkpgvg.vbbou
bmvlgrlgbmugouvwgkpgvgpouvjgBmugmvl gkpgmragxknuzlfulbgragovr gswkl
unuztgbmrlxgvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz,gqrbmgbmugavfugwkquzgvl gkz uz;gksz
rlbuzuabg kuaglkbmrlxgbkqvz agrb;gkszgrliorlvbrklagvl gfuvaszuagaqvt
lkbmrlxgqrbmgmrfjg_ usagrbvgvzbrpuhgfvxlsagrlgfvxlra,gsbgfrlkzglklgarb
rlgwvznra:_g“Xk gragakgxzuvbgvlgvzbrpriuzgrlgxzuvbgbmrlxa,gbmvbgmugraglk
ouaagrlgbmugouvab”gKszgvzzkxvlitgaubagbmrag.ovawmufksagikfwvzrakl
unuzg.upkzugsajg.uivsaugkszgufwoktfulbagvzugvg.sz ulgbkgsa,gAbzvbkgmva
ikszbuksaotg.uulgwouvau gbkguhufwbgbmugxk agpzkfgvoogkppriua,gvagbmurz
wzruabagvzu;gmugfvcuaglvbszugwzk siugvl gaswwkzbgvoogbmrlxa;gvl 
qrbmgmuzgqurxmbagvl gfkbrklagfvcugswgbmugaunuzvogwvzbagkpgbmugqkzo ,
 raimvzxrlxgmsfvlglvbszugpzkfgbmugvqugkpg rnrlugys xfulba:g_Esk g.uvbsf
æbuzsfesugarb,gr gluigmv.uzugluxkbrrgesriesvf,gluiguhmr.uzugvobuzr:_
“Qmvbgrag.ouaau gvl gubuzlvogmvaglurbmuzgvltg.sarluaagrbauopglkzgxrnua
vltgbkgvlkbmuzj”gLvbszugqroogbmvbgrlgorcugbmrlxagbmuzugamkso g.ugvgorcu
zuovbrkljgBmugrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgfkzbvoa,gbmuzupkzu,giklios uagv
orcuglsf.uzgkpgrffkzbvoa;gbmugrlprlrbugbmrlxagbmvbgcroogvl g uabzkt
wzuaswwkauagvagfvltgbmvbgwzuauznugvl gwzkprbjgVagbmugaksoagkpgbmu
xk a,gqrbmksbgbklxsu,gutu,gkzguvz,g kgunuztgklugkpgbmufgpuuogvfklxab
bmufauonuagqmvbgbmugkbmuzgpuuoa,gvl gys xugkszgbmksxmba;gakgbmugaksoagkp
ful,gqmulgvbgor.uzbtgvl gokkau gpzkfgbmug.k t,gurbmuzg.tgaouuwgkzgakfu
uiabvit,g rnrlu,gpkzubuoo,gvl gauugbmrlxa,gqmrim,gqmroabgykrlu gbkgbmu
.k t,gbmutgikso glkbgauujg“Ful,”gavtagAbjgWvso,g“wzkpuaarlxgbmufauonua
bkg.ugqrau,gbmutg.uikfugpkkoa;gvl gimvlxugbmugxokztgkpgbmugslikzzswbr.ou
Xk grlbkgvlgrfvxugfv ugorcugikzzswbr.ougfvlj”g kg.sbgbvcuglkbriugkpgbmu
ysxxorlxgrlgbmugvlirulbg urprivbrklajgVpbuzgbmugxzuvbgvl gabvbuotgwkfw
kpgbmugpsluzvo,gakgakklgvagbmugprzug.uxvlgbkgfkslbgbkgbmugbkwgkpgbmu
wtzvfr ,gvl gbkgivbimgmko gkpgbmugiksimgqmuzugbmug.k tgovt,gbmutgvbgbmu
avfugbrfugbszlu gksbgvlguvxou,gqmrimgpotrlxgswqvz ,garxlrpru gbmvbgbmu
aksogqulbgrlbkgWvzv raujgQugmvnugvgbmksavl gfu voa,gvl gwvzbrisovzot
kpgbmugqkzbmtgPvsabrlv,gqmuzugbmraguvxougragzuwzuaulbu givzztrlxgbmuau
 urpru gaksoagbkgmuvnulgqrbmgbmurzgmuuoagswqvz ajg‘Bragwrbtgbmvbgqu
amkso gpkkogkszauonuagqrbmgkszgkqlgpkwwuzruagvl grlnulbrkla,


gggEsk gprlhuzu,gbrfulb,

ggg“Bmutgpuvzgbmurzgkqlgrlnulbrkla,”


orcugimro zulgqmkgvzugpzrxmbu gqrbmgbmugavfugpviugkpgbmurzgwovtpuookq,
bmvbgbmutgbmufauonuagmvnugafuvzu gvl gafsbbu jg_Esvargesriesvf
rlpuorirsagarbgmkfrlu,gisrgasvgprxfulbvg kfrlvlbsz:_

“Vagrpgvltgbmrlxgikso g.ugfkzugslmvwwtgbmvlgfvl,gqmkgragrlasobu gknuzg.t
mragkqlgrfvxrlvbrklj”g‘Bragpvzgpzkfgmklkszrlxgmrfgqmkgfv ugsa,gbkgmklksz
mrfgbmvbgqugmvnugfv ujgVsxsabsagmv gfkzugbufwouagbmvlgYswrbuz,gauznu 
qrbmgvagfsimgzuorxrklgvl g.uorupgkpgfrzviouajgBmugBmzvirvla,grlgzubszl
kpgbmug.uluprbagbmutgmv gzuiurnu gpzkfgVxuarovsa,givfugbkg.zrlxgmrfgqkz 
bmvbgbmutgmv givlklrdu gmrf:g“Mvagtkszglvbrkl,”gavr gmugbkgbmuf,g“bmu
wkquzgbkgfvcugxk agkpgqmkfgbmutgwouvau?gWzvtgprzabg urptgakfugklu
vfklxabgtkszauonua,gvl gqmulgRgamvoogauugqmvbgv nvlbvxugmugmvag.tgrb,
Rgqroogbmvlcgtksgpkzgtkszgkppuzj”gFvlgragiuzbvrlotgabvzcgfv ;gmugivllkb
fvcugvgqkzf,gvl gtubgmugqroog.ugfvcrlxgxk ag.tg kdulajgMuvzgBzrafuxrabsa
rlgwzvraugkpgkszgaspprirulit:g“Kpgvoogbmugqkl uzpsogbmrlxa,grbgaszfkslba
voogqkl uzgbmvbgfvlgikso gprl gksbgbmug rnrluglvbszugvl gfvcugrbj”gVl 
bvcugmuzugbmugvzxsfulbagkpgbmugaimkkogkpgwmrokakwmtgrbauop:--


ggggggLkaaugisrg rnkagubgikorgfslrlvgakor,
gggVsbgakorgluairzu,g vbsfj

gggggg“Bkgqmkfgbkgclkqgbmug urbruagkpgmuvnul,
gggKzgclkqgmugclkqagbmufglkb,gvoklug‘bragxrnulj”


“RpgbmuzugragvgXk ,gmugragvgornrlxgizuvbszu;grpgmug.ugvgornrlxgizuvbszu,
mugmvagaulau;gvl grpgmugmvagaulau,gmugragas.yuibgbkgikzzswbrkljgRpgmu
.ugqrbmksbgvg.k tgmugragqrbmksbgvgakso,gvl giklauesulbotgqrbmksbgvibrkl;
vl grpgmugmvagvg.k t,grbgragwuzramv.ouj”gRaglkbgmuzugvgbzrsfwm?gqu
vzugrlivwv.ougkpgmvnrlxgfv ugbmugqkzo ;gbmuzugfsabgbmulg.ugakfugfkzu
uhiuooulbglvbszugbmvbgmvagwsbgvgmvl gbkgbmugqkzcjgRbgquzugvgpkkoramgvl 
zr risoksagvzzkxvliugbkguabuufgkszauonuagbmugfkabgwuzpuibgbmrlxgkpgbmu
slrnuzaujgBmuzugfsabgbmulg.ugakfubmrlxgbmvbgrag.ubbuz,gvl gbmvbgfsabg.u
Xk jgQmulgtksgauugvgabvbuotgvl gabswul ksagu rpriu,gbmksxmgtksg kglkb
clkqgqmkgragbmugkqluzgkpgrb,gtksgqkso gtubgiklios ugrbgqvaglkbg.srobgpkz
zvbajgVl gbmrag rnrlugabzsibszu,gbmvbgqug.umko gkpgbmugiuouabrvo
wvoviu,gmvnugquglkbgzuvaklgbkg.uorunugbmvbgrbgragbmugzuar uliugkpgakfu
wkaauaakz,gqmkgragfsimgxzuvbuzgbmvlgqu?gRaglkbgbmugfkabgaswzufugvoqvta
bmugfkabgqkzbmt?g.sbgqugvzugrlgbmugokquabgpkzfjgLkbmrlxgqrbmksbgvgakso
vl gqrbmksbgzuvaklgivlgwzk siugvgornrlxgizuvbszugivwv.ougkpgzuvakljgBmu
qkzo gwzk siuagsa,gbmugqkzo gbmulgmvagaksogvl gzuvakljgUnuztgwvzbgkpgsa
ragouaagbmvlgqujgQugvzugwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmugqkzo gbmuzupkzugragul su 
qrbmgqra kfgvl gzuvakl,gvl gbmvbgfkzugv.sl vlbotgbmvlgqujg‘Bragvgprlu
bmrlxgbkgmvnugvgxzuvbgxknuzlfulb;gbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgbmugqkzo gbmul
vwwuzbvrlagbkgakfugmvwwtglvbszujgBmugabvzag kgsaglkgmvzf;gbmutgvzugbmul
psoogkpgxkk luaajgQugmvnugluu gkpglkszramfulb;gbmulgakgmvnugbmugxk a
voak,gvl gpuu gswklgbmugnvwkszagkpgbmuguvzbmjgQkzo otgxkk agvzuglkb
xkk agbkgXk ;gbmuzupkzugbmutgvzuglkbgxkk agbkgsa;gkppul rlxgvl g.urlx
kppul u gvzuguesvootgbuabrfklruagkpgrf.uirorbt;g‘bragbmuzupkzugpkootgbk
puvzgXk jgXk gragxkk g.tgmraglvbszu;gfvlg.tgmragrl sabzt,gqmrimgragfkzuj
Bmug rnrlugvl gmsfvlgqra kfgmvnuglkgkbmuzg rabrlibrkl,g.sbgbmvbgbmu
przabgragubuzlvo;g.sbg szvbrklgraglkgviiuaarklgbkgqra kf,gbmuzupkzugqu
vzugikfwvlrklajgQugmvnugorpu,gzuvakl,gvl gor.uzbt;gquguabuufgxkk luaa,
imvzrbt,gvl gysabriu;gbmuaugesvorbruagvzugbmulgrlgmrfjgRlgikliosarkl,
.sro rlxgvl g uabzktrlx,gbmugikl rbrklagkpgbmug rnrlrbt,gvzugpkzxu g.t
fvl,gviikz rlxgvagbmutgzuovbugbkgmrfauopjgQmvbgvgwvbbuzl,gvl gqmvbgv
fk uo!goubgsagabzubim,goubgsagzvraugvl gaquoogmsfvlgesvorbruagvagfsimgva
qugwouvau;gwsppgswgbmtauop,gwkkzgfvl,gtubgfkzugvl gfkzu,gvl gfkzu:--


gggLkl,gargbsgzswuzra,grlesrbj

ggg“Lkbgrpgbmksg.szab,”gavr gmuj


_Wzkpuibkglklg usf,gesuzlgikxrbvzuglklgwkaaslb,gau gaufubrwgwzkgrook
ikxrbvlbua,glklgrorsf,gau gaurwaka,glklgroor,gau gar.rgikfwvzvlb?_
“Iuzbvrlotgbmutg kglkbgrfvxrlugXk ,gqmkfgbmutgivllkbgrfvxrlu;g.sb
bmutgrfvxrlugbmufauonuagrlgmragabuv ;gbmutg kglkbgikfwvzugmrf,g.sb
bmufauonua,glkbgbkgmrf,g.sbgbkgbmufauonuaj”gRlglvbszvogbmrlxagbmu
uppuibag kg.sbgmvopgzuovbugbkgbmurzgivsauajgQmvb’agbmragbkgbmugwszwkau?
Mragikl rbrklgragv.knugbmugkz uzgkpglvbszu,gbkkguounvbu ,gbkkgzufkbu,
vl gbkkgfrxmbt,gbkgwuzfrbgrbauopgbkg.ug.ksl gvl gpubbuzu g.tgksz
ikliosarklajg‘Braglkbgbmzksxmgkszauonuagbmvbgqugvzzrnugvbgbmvbgwoviu;
kszgqvtagorugbkkgokqjgQugvzuglkgluvzuzgmuvnulgklgbmugbkwgkpgFkslbgIulra
bmvlgvbgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmugauv;gbvcugbmug rabvliugqrbmgtkszgvabzkov.uj
Bmutg u.vaugXk gunulgbkgbmugivzlvogclkqou xugkpgqkful,gbkgakgfvltgbrfua,
vl gakgfvltgxuluzvbrklajgWvsorlv,gbmugqrpugkpgAvbsfrlsa,gvgfvbzklgkp
xzuvbgzuwsbvbrklgvbgZkfu,gbmrlcrlxgamugovtgqrbmgbmugxk gAuzvwra,gpksl 
muzauopgrlgbmugvzfagkpgvlgvfkzkakgkpgmuza,gbmzksxmgbmugwvl uzrafgkpgbmu
wzruabagkpgmragbufwoujgNvzzk,gbmugfkabgas.bougvl gfkabgouvzlu gkpgvoo
bmugOvbrlgvsbmkza,grlgmrag.kkcgkpgbmukokxt,gqzrbua,gbmvbgbmugauhbklgkp
Muzisoua’agbufwou,gbmzkqrlxg riugqrbmgklugmvl gpkzgmrfauop,gvl gqrbmgbmu
kbmuzgpkzgMuzisoua,gwovtu gvpbuzgbmvbgfvlluzgqrbmgmrfgpkzgvgaswwuzgvl 
vgqulim;grpgmugqkl,gvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgbmugkppuzrlxa;grpgmugokab,gvbgmra
kqljgBmugauhbklgokab,gvl gwvr gbmugaswwuzgvl gbmugqulimjgMuzglvfugqva
Ovszulbrlv,gqmkgavqg.tglrxmbgbmragxk grlgmuzgvzfa,gqmkgfkzuknuzgbko 
muz,gbmvbgbmugprzabgamugfubgbmugluhbg vt,gamkso gxrnugmuzgvgmuvnulot
zuqvz ;gqmrimgwzknu gbkg.ugBvzslirsa,gvgzrimgtkslxgfvl,gqmkgbkkcgmuz
mkfugbkgmragmksau,gvl grlgbrfugoupbgmuzgmragrlmuzrbzrhjgAmu,grlgmuz
bszl,gbmrlcrlxgbkg kgvgbmrlxgbmvbgqkso g.ugwouvarlxgbkgbmugxk ,goupbgbmu
wukwougkpgZkfugmurzagbkgmuz;gvl gbmuzupkzugmv g rnrlugmklkszagvbbzr.sbu 
bkgmuzjgVagrpgrbgmv glkbg.uulgaspprirulbgbmvbgWovbkgqvagkzrxrlvoot
 uaiul u gpzkfgbmugxk ag.tgvg ks.ougorlu,gvl gbmvbgmugmv gLuwbslugpkz
bmugikffklgpvbmuzgkpgmragzviu,grbgqvagiuzbvrlotg.uorunu gvbgVbmula,gbmvb
Vzrabk,gmvnrlxgvgfrl gbkgulyktgbmugpvrzgWuzribrklu,gikso glkb,gvl 
qvagqvzlu g.tgbmugxk gVwkook,grlgvg zuvf,gbkgouvnugmuzgslwkoosbu gvl 
slbksimu ,gbroogamugamkso gprzabg.ug.zksxmbgbkg.u jgBmuaugquzugbmu
pvbmuzgvl gfkbmuzgkpgWovbkjgMkqgfvltgzr risoksagabkzruagvzugbmuzugkp
orcugisicko rlxa,gikffrbbu g.tgbmugxk agvxvrlabgwkkzgfkzbvogful!gVl gmkq
fvltgmsa.vl agrlyszrksaotgaivl vou grlgpvnkszgkpgbmugimro zul!gRlgbmu
FvmkfubvlgzuorxrklgbmuzugvzugFuzorlagulksxmgpksl g.tgbmug.uorupgkpgbmu
wukwou;gbmvbgragbkgavt,gimro zulgqrbmksbgpvbmuza,gawrzrbsvo,g rnrluot
ikliurnu grlgbmugqkf.agkpgnrzxrla,gvl givzztglvfuagbmvbgarxlrptgakgfsim
rlgbmurzgovlxsvxuj

Qugvzugbkgk.auznugbmvbgbkgunuztgbmrlxglkbmrlxgragfkzug uvzgvl guabrfv.ou
bmvlgrbag.urlxg(bmugorkl,gbmuguvxougbmug kowmrl,gwzrduglkbmrlxgv.knu
bmurzgkqlgcrl );gvl gbmvbgunuztgbmrlxgvaarfrovbuagbmugesvorbruagkpgvoo
kbmuzgbmrlxagbkgrbagkqlgwzkwuzgesvorbrua,gqmrimgqugfvtgrl uu guhbul 
kzgiklbzvib,g.sbgbmvb’agvoo;gpkzg.utkl gbmvbgzuovbrklgvl gwzrlirwougksz
rfvxrlvbrklgivllkbgxk,givlgxsuaagvbglkbmrlxguoau,glkzgwkaar.otgxkgksb
bmuliu,glkzgabzubimg.utkl grb;gqmuliugawzrlxgbmuaugvlirulbgikliosarkla:
kpgvoogpkzfagbmugfkabg.uvsbrpsogragbmvbgkpgfvl;gbmuzupkzugXk gfsabg.u
kpgbmvbgpkzfjgLkgklugivlg.ugmvwwtgqrbmksbgnrzbsu,glkzgnrzbsug.ugqrbmksb
zuvakl,gvl gzuvaklgivllkbgrlmv.rbgvltqmuzug.sbgrlgvgmsfvlgamvwu;gXk gra
bmuzupkzugiokbmu grlgvgmsfvlgprxszujg_Rbvguabgrlpkzfvbsfgubgvlbrirwvbsf
fulbr.saglkabzra,gsbgmkfrlr,gessfg ug ukgikxrbub,gpkzfvgkiiszzvb
ms-fvlvj_g“Rbgragakgrfwzrlbu grlgkszgfrl a,gvl gbmugpvlitgragak
wzuwkaauaau gqrbmgrb,gbmvbgqmulgvgfvlgbmrlcagkpgXk ,gvgmsfvlgprxszugunuz
wzuaulbagrbauopgbkgbmugrfvxrlvbrklj”gBmuzupkzugrbgqvagbmvbgHulkwmvlua
wouvavlbotgavr ,g“Bmvbgrpg.uvabagpzvfugvltgxk agbkgbmufauonua,gvag‘bra
orcuotgbmutg k,gbmutgfvcugbmufgiuzbvrlotgasimgvagbmufauonuagvzu,gvl 
xokzrptgbmufauonuagrlgrb,gvagqug kjgPkzgqmtgfvtglkbgvgxkkaugavtgbmsa;
“VoogbmugwvzbagkpgbmugslrnuzaugRgmvnugvlgrlbuzuabgrl;gbmuguvzbmgauznua
fugbkgqvocgswkl;gbmugaslgbkgorxmbgfu;gbmugabvzagmvnugbmurzgrlposuliu
swklgfu;gRgmvnugasimgvlgv nvlbvxug.tgbmugqrl agvl gasimg.tgbmugqvbuza;
bmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgtklgmuvnulotgzkkpgokkcagswklgakgpvnkszv.otgvagfu;
Rgvfgbmug vzorlxgkpglvbszu!gRagrbglkbgfvlgbmvbgcuuwa,gok xua,gvl gauznua
fu?g‘Bragpkzgfugbmvbgmug.kbmgakqagvl gxzrl a;grpgmuguvbagfugmug kuagbmu
avfug.tgmragpuookq-ful,gvl gakg kgRgbmugqkzfagbmvbgcroogvl g unkszgmrfj”
gVagfsimgfrxmbg.ugavr g.tgvgizvlu,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgiklpr uliu,gswklgbmu
viikslbgkpgbmugor.uzbtgkpgmragporxmb,gvl gbmugwkaauaarklgkpgbmvbgmrxm
vl g.uvsbrpsogzuxrkljg_Bvfg.ovl vgiklirorvbzrh,gubgbvfgasrguabgoulvgrwav
lvbszvj_g“Akgpovbbuzrlxgvl gqmuu orlxgvg.vq graglvbszugbkgmuzauopj”

Lkqg.tgbmugavfugiklauesuliu,gbmug uabrlruagvzugbmulgpkzgsa;gpkzgsagbmu
qkzo ;grbgamrluagrbgbmsl uzagpkzgsa;gizuvbkzgvl gizuvbszua,gvoogvzugpkz
sa;g‘bragbmugfvzcgvl gwkrlbgbkgqmrimgbmugslrnuzavorbtgkpgbmrlxagvrfaj
Okkcgrlbkgbmugzuikz agbmvbgwmrokakwmtgmvagcuwbgpkzgbqkgbmksavl gtuvza
vl gfkzu,gkpgbmugvppvrzagkpgmuvnul;gbmugxk agvoogbmvbgqmrougmvnu
lurbmuzgvibu glkzgawkculg.sbgpkzgfvljgAmug kuaglkbgvookqgbmufgvltgkbmuz
iklasobvbrklgkzgkiiswvbrkljgAuugbmufgmuzugvxvrlabgsagrlgqvz:--


gggggg kfrbkaesugMuzisouâgfvls
gggBuooszragysnulua,gsl ugwuzrisosf
gggPsoxulagiklbzugfsgrbg kfsa
gggAvbszvrgnubuzraj

gggggg“Bmug.zvqltgaklagkpguvzbm,gas. s’ g.tgmvl 
gggKpgMuzisouagklgbmugWmouxzævlgabzvl ,
gggQmuzugbmugzs ugamkicg r gasimgvlgswzkvzgfvcu,
gggVagfv ugko gAvbszl’agawvzcorlxgwvoviugamvcuj”


Vl gmuzugtksgamvoogauugbmufgwvzbrirwvbugkpgkszgbzks.oua,gbkgfvcugv
zubszlgpkzgkszgmvnrlxgakgkpbulgamvzu grlgbmurza:--


ggggggLuwbslsagfszka,gfvxlkesugufkbvgbzr ulbr
gggPsl vfulbvgesvbrb,gbkbvfesugàgau r.sagsz.uf
gggUfrb:gmrugYslkgAiævagaænraarfvgwkzbvagWzrfvgbulubj

gggggg“Vfr abgbmvbgafkbmuzgLuwbslugmko agmragwoviu,
ggg.uokqgbmugqvooa’gpksl vbrklg zrnuagmragfviu,
gggVl gmuvnuagbmugirbtgpzkfgrbagakor g.vauj
gggAuugqmuzugrlgvzfagbmugizsuogYslkgabvl a,
gggPsoogrlgbmugAiævlgxvbuj”


BmugIvslrvla,gyuvoksagkpgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzgxk a,gvzfu 
bmufauonuagklgbmug vtagkpgbmurzg unkbrkl,gvl gbmzksxmgbmugqmkougkpgbmurz
wzuirlibagzvlgisbbrlxgvl gaovamrlxgbmugvrzgqrbmgbmurzgaqkz a,g.tgbmvb
fuvlagbkg zrnugvqvtgvl g.vlramgvoogpkzurxlgxk agksbgkpgbmurzgbuzzrbkztj
Bmurzgwkquzagvzugorfrbu gviikz rlxgbmvbgbmugwovxsu,gbmvbgbmugaiszp,gbmvb
bmugwmbmrari;gklugiszuagklugakzbgkpgrbim,gvlkbmuzgvlkbmuz:g_V ukgfrlrfra
ubrvfgzu.sagwzvnvgzuorxrkgrlauzrbg uka?_g“Vbgasimgvgzvbug kuagpvoau
zuorxrklgizuvbugxk agpkzgbmugfkabgiklbufwbr.ougsauaj”gBmragklugfvcua
xzvwuagxzkq,gbmvbgklrkla;gbmragmvagbmugwzuar uliugknuzgouimuzt,gbmvb
knuzgfuzimvl rau;gpkzgunuztgakzbgkpgvzbravlgvgxk ;gbmragmvagmragwzknrliu
vl gzuwsbvbrklgrlgbmuguvab;gbmvbgmragrlgbmugquab:--


ggggg“Muzugovtgmuzgvzfksz,gmuzugmuzgimvzrkbgabkk j”

gggggKgavlibugVwkook,gesrgsf.rorisfgiuzbsfgbuzzvzsfgk.brlua!

ggggg“Kgavizu gWmku.sa,gqmkgqrbmgxokzrksagzvt,
ggPzkfgbmuguvzbm’agiulbzu,g kabgbmtgorxmbg rawovtj”

gggggWvoov vgIuizkwr æ,gFrlkovgIzubvg rvlvf,
ggNsoivlsfgbuoosagMtwarwtouvgikorb,
ggYslklufgAwvzbu,gWuokwuov uaesugFtiulæ;
ggWrlrxuzsfgPvslrgFælvoragkzvgivwsb;
ggFvzagOvbrkgnuluzvl saj

ggggg“Bm’gVbmulrvlagWvoova,gItlbmrvgIzubugv kzu,
ggNsoivlgragqkzamrwwu gklgbmugOuflrvlgamkzuj
ggWzks gYslk’agvobvzagvzug.tgAwvzbvlagpu ,
ggBm’gVziv rvlagqkzamrwgPvslsa,gvl g‘bragavr 
ggBkgFvza,g.tgRbvot,gragmkfvxugwvr j”


bkgkszgluiuaarbt;gbmragiszuagmkzaua,gbmvbgful,


gggMrigroorsagvzfv,gMrigiszzsagpsrbj


Bmragmvagklotgklugbkqlgkzgpvfrotgrlgmragwkaauaarkl;gbmvbgornuagvoklu;
bmvbgrlgikfwvlt,gurbmuzgnkoslbvztgkzgswklgluiuaarbt:--


ggggggYslibvesugaslbgfvxlkgbufwovgluwkbragvnkj

gggggg“Vl gbufwouagbkgbmugluwmuqgykrlu gvzu,
gggBkgbmkaugquzugzuvzu gbkgbmugxzuvb-xzvl pvbmuzj”


Rlgmuzugvzugakfugakgqzubimu gvl gfuvlg(pkzgbmuglsf.uzgvfkslbagbkgarhgvl 
bmrzbtgbmksavl )gbmvbgbmutgfsabgwvicgprnugkzgarhgbkxubmuz,gbkgwzk siu
kluguvzgkpgikzl,gvl gbmuliugbvcugbmurzgaunuzvoglvfua;gbmzuugbkgv
 kkz--bmvbgkpgbmugwovlc,gbmvbgkpgbmugmrlxu,gvl gbmvbgkpgbmugbmzuamko j
Pkszgbkgvgimro --wzkbuibkzagkpgmragaqvbmrlx-ioksba,gmrag zrlc,gfuvb,gvl 
asicrlxjgAkfugiuzbvrl,gakfugsliuzbvrlgvl g ks.bpso,gvl gakfugbmvbgvzu
lkbgtubgulbuzu gWvzv rau:--


ggggggEska,gesklrvfgikorglkl sfg rxlvfszgmklkzu,
gggEsvag u rfsagiuzbègbuzzvagmv.rbvzugarlvlzva:

gggggg“Qmkf,garliugqugtubglkbgqkzbmtgbmrlcgkpgmuvnul,
gggQugasppuzgbkgwkaauaagbmuguvzbmgqu’nugxrnulj”


Bmuzugvzugvfklxabgbmufgwmtarirvla,gwkuba,gvl girnrorvlajgAkfugkpgv
fuvlg.ubqrhbgbmug rnrlugvl gmsfvlglvbszu;gfu rvbkzag.ubqrhbgXk gvl gsa,
v kzlu gqrbmgvgiuzbvrlgauikl gvl g rfrlsbrnugakzbgkpgv kzvbrkl;grlprlrbu
rlgbrbouagvl gkppriua;gakfugxkk ;gkbmuzagroo;gakfugko gvl g uizuwrb,
vl gakfugbmvbgvzugfkzbvojgPkzgImztarwwsagqvagkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrlgbmugovab
iklpovxzvbrklgkpgbmugqkzo gvoogbmugxk agquzugbkg rug.sbgYswrbuzjgFvl
fvcuagvgbmksavl gwzubbtgakirubruag.ubqrhbgXk gvl gmrf;gragmuglkbgmra
ikslbztfvl?


gggYknragrlislv.sovgIzubulj

ggg“Izubu,gbmugizv ougkpgYswrbuzj”


Vl gbmragragbmuguhisaugbmvb,gswklgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmragas.yuib,
Aiænkov,gvgmrxmgwzruab,gvl gNvzzk,gvgxzuvbgbmukokxrvlgrlgbmurzgbrfua,
fvcugsa:g“Bmvbgrbgragluiuaavztgbmvbgbmugwukwougamkso g.ugrxlkzvlbgkp
fvltgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugbzsu,gvl g.uorunugfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugpvoauj”
g_Essfgnuzrbvbufgesvgor.uzubszgrlesrzvbgizu vbszgurguhwu rzugesk 
pvoorbszj_g“Auurlxgmugrlesrzuagrlbkgbmugbzsbm,g.tgqmrimgmugqkso g.u
fv ugpzuu,g‘bragprbgmugamkso g.ug uiurnu j”gMsfvlgutuagivllkbgwuziurnu
bmrlxag.sbg.tgbmugpkzfagbmutgclkq;gvl gqug kglkbgzufuf.uzgqmvbgvgouvw
frauzv.ougWmæbklgbkkcgpkzgvbbufwbrlxgbkgxsr ugmragpvbmuz’agmkzauagqrbm
vgfkzbvogmvl jgBmugfrl gkpgfvlgpvooagrlbkgvagxzuvbgvg uwbm,gvl gragvpbuz
bmugavfugfvlluzg.zsrau gvl gamvbbuzu g.tgmragkqlgzvamluaajgRpgtksgvacgkp
wmrokakwmtgkpgqmvbgfvbbuzgbmugmuvnulagvl gbmugaslgvzu?gqmvbgvlaquzgqroo
amugzubszl,grpglkbgbmvbgrbgragrzkl,gkz,gqrbmgVlvhvxkzva,gabklu,gkzgakfu
kbmuzgfvbbuzgbmvbgamugfvcuagsaugkp?gRpgvgfvlgrlesrzugkpgDulkgqmvbglvbszu
ra?g“Vgprzu,”gavtagmu,g“vlgvzbravl,gwzkwuzgpkzgxuluzvbrkl,gvl gzuxsovzot
wzkiuu rlxj”gVzimrfu ua,gfvabuzgkpgbmvbgairuliugqmrimgvbbzr.sbuagbk
rbauopgbmugwzuiu ulitg.upkzugvoogkbmuzagpkzgbzsbmgvl giuzbvrlbt;
“bmugasl,”gavtagmu,g“ragvgxk gkpgzu -mkbgrzklj”gQvaglkbgbmragvgprlu
rfvxrlvbrkl,guhbzvibu gpzkfgbmugrlunrbv.ougluiuaarbtgkpgxukfubzrivo
 ufklabzvbrkla?gTubglkbgakgrlunrbv.ougvl gsaupsog.sbgbmvbgAkizvbua
bmksxmbgrbgqvagulksxmgbkgclkqgakgfsimgkpgxukfubztgklotgvagbkgfuvaszugbmu
ovl gvgfvlg.ksxmbgkzgako ;gvl gbmvbgWkotælsa,gqmkgmv g.uulgvgxzuvb
vl gpvfksag kibkzgrlgrb,g uawrau grb,gvagpsoogkpgpvoarbtgvl gfvlrpuab
nvlrbt,gvpbuzgmugmv gkliugbvabu gbmug uorivbugpzsrbagkpgbmugokduoot
xvz ulagkpgUwriszsajgAkizvbuagrlgHulkwmkl,gikliuzlrlxgbmragvppvrz,
avtagkpgVlvhvxkzva,gzuwsbu g.tgvlbresrbtgouvzlu gv.knugvoogkbmuzagrl
iuouabrvogvl g rnrlugfvbbuza,g“Bmvbgmugmv gizvicu gmrag.zvrl,gvagvoo
kbmuzgfulg kgqmkgbkkgrffk uzvbuotgauvzimgrlbkgclkqou xuagqmrimglkbmrlx
.uoklxgbkgbmuf:”gqmulgmugfv ugbmugaslgbkg.ugvg.szlrlxgabklu,gmug r glkb
iklar uzgbmvbgvgabklug kuaglkbgamrlugrlgbmugprzu;gvl ,gqmrimgragqkzau,
bmvbgrbgqroogbmuzugiklasfu;gvl grlgfvcrlxgbmugaslgvl gprzugklu,gbmvb
przug kuaglkbgbszlgbmugikfwouhrklag.ovicgrlgamrlrlxgswklgbmuf;gbmvb
qugvzugv.ougbkgokkcgprhu otgswklgprzu;gvl gbmvbgprzugcrooagmuz.agvl 
wovlbajg‘BragAkizvbua’agkwrlrkl,gvl gfrlugbkk,gbmvbgbmug.uabgys xrlx
kpgmuvnulgraglkbgbkgys xugkpgrbgvbgvoojgWovbkgmvnrlxgkiivarkl,grlgmra
_Brfksa_,gbkgawuvcgkpgbmug ufkla,g“Bmragsl uzbvcrlx,”gavtagmu,g“uhiuu a
ftgv.rorbtj”gQugvzugbmuzupkzugbkg.uorunugbmkaugvlirulbagqmkgavr gbmut
quzug.uxkbbulg.tgbmuf;g‘bragvxvrlabgvoogzuvaklgbkgzupsaugvgfvl’agpvrbm
bkgbmugimro zulgkpgbmugxk a,gbmksxmgqmvbgbmutgavtgamkso glkbg.ugwzknu 
.tgvltgluiuaavztgkzgwzk.v.ougzuvakla;gauurlxgbmutgulxvxugbkgawuvcgkp
 kfuabrigvl gpvfrorvzgbmrlxaj

Oubgsagauugrpgqugmvnugvgorbbougfkzugorxmbgrlgbmugclkqou xugkpgmsfvlgvl 
lvbszvogbmrlxajgRagrbglkbgvgzr risoksagvbbufwbgpkzgsagbkgpkzxugpkzgbmkau
bkgqmkf,g.tgkszgkqlgiklpuaarkl,gkszgclkqou xugraglkbgv.ougbkgvbbvrl,
vlkbmuzg.k t,gvl gbkgoul gvgpvoaugpkzfgkpgkszgkqlgrlnulbrkl;gvagra
fvlrpuabgrlgbmragfkbrklgkpgbmugwovluba;gbkgqmrim,gauurlxgkszgqrba
ivllkbgwkaar.otgvzzrnu,glkzgikliurnugbmurzglvbszvogikl sib,gqugoul gbmuf
fvbuzrvo,gmuvnt,gvl gas.abvlbrvogawzrlxagkpgkszgkqlg.tgqmrimgbkgfknu:--


ggggggBufkgvszusa,gvszuvgasffæ
gggIsznvbszvgzkbæ,gzv rkzsfgvzxulbusagkz kj

gggggg“Xko gqvagbmugvhou,gvl gbmug.uvfgqvagxko ;
gggBmugqmuuoagqrbmgaronuzgawkcuagklgxko ulgirziouagzkoo’ j”


Tksgqkso gavtgbmvbgqugmv gmv gikvimfvcuza,givzwulbuza,gvl gwvrlbuza,
bmvbgqulbgswgklgmrxmgbkgfvcugulxrluagkpgnvzrksagfkbrkla,gvl gbkgzvlxu
bmugqmuuoqkzcgvl grlbuzpvirlxagkpgbmugmuvnulotg.k ruagkpg rppuzrlx
ikokszagv.ksbgbmugvhragkpgluiuaarbt,gviikz rlxgbkgWovbk:--


ggggggFsl sag kfsaguabgfvhrfvgzuzsf,
gggEsvfgesrlesugvobrbklægpzvxfrlugdklæ
gggIrlxslb,gwuzgesvfgorf.sagwribsag.ragauhgarxlra
gggAbuoorfrivlbr.sa,gvobsagrlgk.oreskgæbmuzu,goslæ
ggg.rxvagviiuwbvbj

gggggg“Bmugqkzo ’agvgfvlarklgbmvbg kbmgvoogbmrlxagmko ,
gggQmrimgbmsl uzrlxgdklua,grlglsf.uzgprnu,gulpko ,
gggBmzksxmgqmrimgvgxrz ou,gwvrlbu gqrbmgbquonugarxla,
gggVl gbmvbgqrbmgawvzcorlxgiklabuoovbrkla,gamrlua,
gggRlgmuvnul’agvzimgfvzcagbmug rszlvogikszau
gggPkzgbmugasl’agimvzrkbgvl gmragpruztgmkzauj”


Bmuaugvzugvoog zuvfagvl gpvlvbrigpkooruajgQmtgqrooglkbglvbszugwouvaugpkz
kliugbkgovtgkwulgmuzg.kakfgbkgsa,gvl gwovrlotg raiknuzgbkgsagbmugfuvla
vl gikl sibgkpgmuzgfknufulba,gvl gwzuwvzugkszgutuagbkgauugbmuf?gXkk 
Xk ,gqmvbgv.sau,gqmvbgfrabvcuagamkso gqug raiknuzgrlgkszgwkkzgairuliu!
Rgvfgfrabvculgrpgbmvbgquvcgclkqou xugkpgkszagmko agvltgklugbmrlxgvagrb
zuvootgra,gvl gRgamvoog uwvzbgmuliugfkzugrxlkzvlbgkpgvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa
bmvlgftgkqlgrxlkzvliuj

MvnugRglkbgzuv grlgWovbkgbmrag rnrlugavtrlx,gbmvbg“lvbszugraglkbmrlx
.sbgulrxfvbrigwkuat!”gVagrpgvgfvlgfrxmbgwuzmvwagauugvgnurou gvl gamv t
wribszu,g.zuvcrlxgksbgmuzugvl gbmuzugqrbmgvlgrlprlrbugnvzrubtgkpgpvoau
orxmbagbkgwsddougkszgiklyuibszua:g_Ovbulbgrabvgkflrvgizvaaragkiisoovbv
ubgirzisfpsavgbulu.zra;gsbglsoovgviruagmsfvlrgrlxulrrgbvlbvgarb,gesæ
wulubzvzugrlgikuosf,gbuzzvfgrlbzvzu,gwkaarbj_g“Voogbmkaugbmrlxagoru
ikliuvou gvl grlnkonu grlgakg vzcgvlgk.aiszrbtgbmvbglkgwkrlbgkpgmsfvl
qrbgivlg.ugakgamvzwgvagbkgwruziugmuvnulgkzgwulubzvbugbmuguvzbmj”gVl 
iuzbvrlotgwmrokakwmtgraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgakwmrabrivbu gwkubztjgQmuliug k
bmugvlirulbgqzrbuzaguhbzvibgbmurzgvsbmkzrbruag.sbgpzkfgbmugwkuba?gvl 
bmugprzabgkpgbmufgquzugwkubagbmufauonua,gvl gqzrbgviikz rlxotjgWovbkgra
.sbgvgwkubgslzrwwu jgBrfklgivooagmrf,grlasobrlxot,g“vgfklabzksagpkzxuz
kpgfrzviouaj”gVoogaswuzmsfvlgairuliuagfvcugsaugkpgbmugwkubrigabtoujgYsab
vagqkfulgfvcugsaugkpgbuubmgkpgrnkztgqmuzugbmuglvbszvogvzugqvlbrlx,gvl 
rlabuv gkpgbmurzgbzsugikfwouhrklgfvcugklugkpgakfugvzbrprirvogfvbbuz;gva
bmutgabsppgbmufauonuagksbgqrbmgikbbklgbkgvwwuvzgwosfw,gvl grlgbmugarxmb
kpgunuztgklug kgwvrlb,gwvbim,gvl gbzricgswgbmufauonuagqrbmgvgpvoaugvl 
.kzzkqu g.uvsbt;gakg kuagairuliug(vl gunulgkszgovqgrbauopgmva,gbmutgavt,
ouxrbrfvbugpribrkla,gqmuzuklgrbg.sro agbmugbzsbmgkpgrbagysabriu);
amugxrnuagsagrlgwzuaswwkarbrkl,gvl gpkzgiszzulbgwvt,gbmrlxagqmrimgamu
muzauopgrlpkzfagsagquzugrlnulbu ;gpkzgbmuaug_uwritioua,guiiulbzria,gvl 
ikliulbzria_,gqmrimgvabzkokxtgfvcuagsaugkpgbkgivzztgklgbmugfkbrklagkp
bmugabvza,gamugxrnuagsagpkzgbmug.uabgamugikso grlnulbgswklgbmvbgas.yuib;
vagvoak,grlgvoogbmugzuab,gwmrokakwmtgwzuaulbagsaglkbgbmvbgqmrimgzuvoot
ra,gkzgqmvbgamugzuvootg.uorunua,g.sbgqmvbgamugmvagiklbzrnu gqrbmgbmu
xzuvbuabgvl gfkabgwovsar.ougorcuormkk gkpgbzsbm,gvl gbmugesvrlbuab
rlnulbrkljgWovbk,gswklgbmug raikszaugkpgbmugabvbugkpgmsfvlg.k ruagvl 
bmkaugkpg.uvaba,gavta,g“Rgamkso gclkqgbmvbgqmvbgRgmvnugavr gragbzsbm,
mv gRgbmugiklprzfvbrklgkpgvlgkzviou;g.sbgbmragRgqroogvpprzf,gbmvbgqmvbgR
mvnugavr gragbmugfkabgorcuotgbkg.ugbzsugkpgvltgbmrlxgRgikso gavtj”

‘Braglkbgbkgmuvnulgklotgbmvbgvzbgaul agmuzgzkwua,gulxrlua,gvl gqmuuoa;
oubgsagiklar uzgvgorbbougqmvbgamugavtagkpgsagkszauonua,gvl gkpgksz
iklbuhbszuj

Bmuzugraglkbgfkzugzubzkxzv vbrkl,gbzuwr vbrkl,gviiuaarkl,gzuiuaarkl,gvl 
vabklramfulb,grlgbmugabvzagvl giuouabrvog.k rua,gbmvlgbmutgmvnugpksl 
ksbgrlgbmragwkkzgorbbougmsfvlg.k tjgRlguvzluab,gbmutgmvnugxkk gzuvakl,
swklgbmvbgnuztgviikslb,gbkgivoogrbgbmugorbbougqkzo ,gakgfvltgbkkoagvl 
wvzbagmvnugbmutgufwoktu gbkguzuibgvl g.sro grbjgBkgvaarabgbmugfkbrkla
bmutgauugrlgfvl,gvl gbmugnvzrksagpslibrklagbmvbgqugprl grlgkszauonua,grl
mkqgfvltgwvzbagmvnugbmutg rnr u gbmugakso,grlgmkqgfvltgwoviuagok xu grb?
rlgmkqgfvltgkz uzagmvnugbmutg rnr u ,gvl gbkgmkqgfvltgabkzruagmvnugbmut
zvrau gbmragwkkzgizuvbszu,gfvl,g.uar uagbmkaugbmvbgvzuglvbszvogvl gbk
.ugwuziurnu ?gVl gmkqgfvltgkppriuagvl gnkivbrklagmvnugbmutgvaarxlu gmrf?
Bmutgfvcugrbgvlgrfvxrlvztgws.origbmrlxjg‘Bragvgas.yuibgbmvbgbmutgmko 
vl gmvl ou;gvl gbmutgmvnugpsoogwkquzgxzvlbu gbkgbmufgbkgzrw,gwoviu,
 rawoviu,gwruiu,gvl gabsppgrb,gunuztgklugviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgpvlit,gvl 
tubgbmutgwkaauaagrbglkbgBmutgivllkb,glkbgrlgzuvorbtgklot,g.sbgunulgrl
 zuvfa,gakgxknuzlgrbgbmvbgbmuzugqrooglkbg.ugakfugiv uliugkzgaksl gbmvb
qrooguaivwugbmurzgvzimrbuibszu,gvagulkzfksagvagrbgra,gvl g.kbimu gqrbm
vgbmksavl gpvoaugvl gpvlbvabrigwvbimuajgVl grbgraglkbgzuvaklgbkguhisau
bmuf;gpkzgbmksxmgqugvzugavbrapru gqrbmgwvrlbuzagqmulgbmutgwvrlbgmuvnul,
uvzbm,gauva,gfkslbvrla,gvl gzufkbugraovl a,gbmvbgbmutgxrnugsagakfu
aorxmbgfvzcgkpgbmuf,gvl ,gvagkpgbmrlxagslclkql,gvzugiklbulbgqrbmgvgpvrlb
vl gk.aiszug uaizrwbrkl;gtubgqmulgbmutgikfugvl g zvqgsagvpbuzgorpu,gkz
vltgkbmuzgizuvbszugqmrimgragclkqlgvl gpvfrorvzgbkgsa,gqugbmulgzuesrzugkp
bmufgvgwuzpuibgvl guhvibgzuwzuaulbvbrklgkpgorluvfulbagvl gikoksza,gvl 
 uawraugbmufgrpgbmutgpvrogrlgrbj

Rgvfgnuztgquoogwouvau gqrbmgbmugFrouarvlgxrzo,gqmkgk.auznrlxgbmu
wmrokakwmuzgBmvouagbkg.ugvoqvtagiklbufwovbrlxgbmugiuouabrvogvzim,gvl 
bkgmvnugmragutuagunuzgxvdrlxgswqvz ,govr gakfubmrlxgrlgmragqvtgbmvbgmu
frxmbgabsf.ougknuz,gbkgwsbgmrfgrlgfrl gbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugbrfugbkgbvcugsw
mragbmksxmbagv.ksbgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugrlgbmugioks agqmulgmugmv gwzknr u 
pkzgbmkaugbmvbgquzugsl uzgmragpuubjg ks.bouaagamugv nrau gmrfgquoo,
zvbmuzgbkgokkcgbkgmrfauopgbmvlgbkgxvdugvbgmuvnul;gpkz,gvag ufkizrbsa
avta,g.tgbmugfksbmgkpgIriuzk,--


gggEsk guabgvlbugwu ua,glufkgawuibvb:gikuorgaizsbvlbszgwovxvaj

gggggg“Lkgfvlgzuxvz agqmvbgragsl uzgmragpuub;
gggBmutgvzugvoqvtagwztrlxgbkqvz agmuvnulj”


.sbgkszgikl rbrklgqroogmvnugrbgak,gbmvbgbmugclkqou xugkpgqmvbgqugmvnugrl
mvl gragvagzufkbugpzkfgsa,gvl gvagfsimgv.knugbmugioks a,gvagbmvbgkpgbmu
abvzajgVagAkizvbuagavta,grlgWovbk,g“Bmvbgqmkunuzgfu  ouagqrbmgwmrokakwmt
fvtg.ugzuwzkvimu gvagBmvouagqvag.tgbmugqkfvl,gbmvbgmugauuaglkbmrlxgkp
bmvbgqmrimgrag.upkzugmrfjgPkzgunuztgwmrokakwmuzgragrxlkzvlbgkpgqmvbgmra
lurxm.kszg kua;gvtu,gvl gkpgqmvbgmug kuagmrfauop,gvl gragrxlkzvlbgkp
qmvbgbmutg.kbmgvzu,gqmubmuzg.uvabagkzgfulj”

Bmkaugwukwou,gqmkgprl gAu.kl ’agvzxsfulbagbkkgquvc,gbmvbgvzugrxlkzvlbgkp
lkbmrlx,gbmvbgxknuzlgbmugqkzo ,gbmvbgclkqgvoo,--


ggggggEsægfvzugikfwuaivlbgivsaæ;gesr gbufwuzubgvllsf;
gggAbuooægawklbugasâ,gysaaænu,gnvxulbszgubguzzulb;
gggEsr gwzufvbgk.aiszsfgoslæ,gesr gwzkpézâbgkz.uf;
gggEsr gnuorbgubgwkavrbgzuzsfgiklikz rvg raikza;

gggggg“Qmvbgxknuzlagkiuvl’agbr ua,
gggVl gbmzksxmgbmugnvzrksagtuvzgbmugauvaklagxsr ua;
gggQmubmuzgbmugabvzag.tgbmurzgkqlgwzkwuzgpkziu,
gggKzgpkzurxlgwkquz,gwszasugbmurzgqvl ’zrlxgikszau;
gggQmtgamv kqag vzculgbmugwvougesuulgkpglrxmb;
gggQmuliugamugzuluqagmuzgkz.gvl gawzuv agmuzgorxmb;--
gggQmvbglvbszu’agyvzzrlxgatfwvbmtgivlgfuvl;”


mvnugbmutglkbgakfubrfuagrlgbmurzgqzrbrlxagaksl u gbmug rpprisobruagbmut
mvnugfubgqrbmgkpgclkqrlxgbmurzgkqlg.urlx?gQugauugnuztgquoogbmvbgbmu
prlxuzgfknua,gbmvbgbmugpkkbgfknua,gbmvbgakfugwvzbagvaasfugvgnkoslbvzt
fkbrklgkpgbmufauonuagqrbmksbgkszgiklaulb,gvl gbmvbgkbmuzagqkzcg.tgksz
 rzuibrkl;gbmvbgklugakzbgkpgvwwzumularklgkiivarklag.osamrlx;gvlkbmuz
wvouluaa;gasimgvlgrfvxrlvbrklgqkzcagswklgbmugawouulgklot,gvlkbmuzgswkl
bmug.zvrl;gklugkiivarklagovsxmbuz,gvlkbmuzgbuvza;gvlkbmuzgabswupruagvl 
vabklramuagvoogkszgaulaua,gvl gvzzuabagbmugfkbrklgkpgvoogkszgfuf.uza;
vbgklugk.yuibgbmugabkfvimgqroogzrau,gvbgvlkbmuzgvgfuf.uzgbmvbgorua
akfubmrlxgokquz;g.sbgmkqgvgawrzrbsvogrfwzuaarklgamkso gfvcugasimgv
.zuvimgrlbkgvgfvaatgvl gakor gas.yuib,gvl gbmuglvbszugkpgbmugiklluibrkl
vl giklbuhbszugkpgbmuaugv frzv.ougawzrlxagvl gfknufulba,glunuzgtub
fvlgcluq:g_Kflrvgrliuzbvgzvbrklu,gubgrlglvbszægfvyuabvbugv. rbvj_g“Voo
sliuzbvrlgrlgzuvakl,gvl gikliuvou grlgbmugfvyuabtgkpglvbszu,”gavta
WorltjgVl gAbgVsxsabrl,g_Fk sageskgikzwkzr.sagv mkzulbgawrzrbsajjjj
kflrlkgfrlraguab,gluigikfwzumul rgv.gmkfrlugwkbuab;gubgmkigrwau
mkfkguab,_g“Bmugfvlluzgqmuzu.tgaksoagv muzugbkg.k ruagragvobkxubmuz
qkl uzpso,gvl givllkbg.ugikliurnu g.tgfvl,gvl gtubgbmragragfvlj”gVl 
tubgrbgraglkbgakgfsimgvag ks.bu ;gpkzgbmugkwrlrklagkpgfulgvzugzuiurnu 
viikz rlxgbkgbmugvlirulbg.uorup,g.tgvsbmkzrbtgvl gswklgbzsab,gvagrp
rbgquzugzuorxrklgvl govqjg‘Bragzuiurnu gvagxr..uzramgqmrimgragikffklot
awkcul;gbmragbzsbm,gqrbmgvoogrbagiosbbuzgkpgvzxsfulbagvl gwzkkpa,gra
v frbbu gvagvgprzfgvl gakor g.k t,gbmvbgraglkgfkzugbkg.ugamvcul,glkgfkzu
bkg.ugys xu gkp;gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gunuztgklu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug.uabgkp
mragbvoulb,gikzzk.kzvbuagvl gpkzbrpruagbmragzuiurnu g.uorupgqrbmgbmu
sbfkabgwkquzgkpgmragzuvakl,gqmrimgragvgaswwougsbularo,gworv.ou,gvl gbk
.ugviikffk vbu gbkgvltgprxszu;gvl gbmsagbmugqkzo gikfuagbkg.ugproou 
qrbmgoruagvl gpkwwuzruajgBmugzuvaklgbmvbgfulg ks.bgkpg rnuzagbmrlxagra
bmvbgbmutglunuzguhvfrlugikffklgrfwzuaarkla;gbmutg kglkbg rxgbkgbmugzkkb,
qmuzugbmugpvsobagvl g upuibagoru;gbmutgklotg u.vbugswklgbmug.zvlimua;
bmutg kglkbguhvfrlugqmubmuzgasimgvl gasimgvgbmrlxg.ugbzsu,g.sbgrpgrb
mvag.uulgakgvl gakgsl uzabkk ;grbgraglkbgrlesrzu grlbkgqmubmuzgXvoulgmva
avr gvltgbmrlxgbkgwszwkau,g.sbgqmubmuzgmugmvagavr gakgkzgakjgRlgbzsbmgrb
qvagnuztgxkk gzuvaklgbmvbgbmragisz.gbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgkszgys xfulbagvl 
bmvbgbtzvlltgknuzgkszgkwrlrkla,gamkso g.uguhbul u gbkgbmugaimkkoagvl 
vzbajgBmugxk gkpgaimkovabrigclkqou xugragVzrabkbou;g‘bragrzzuorxrklgbk
esuabrklgvltgkpgmrag uizuua,gvagrbgqvagbmkaugkpgOsiszxsagvbgAwvzbv;
mrag kibzrlugragvgfvxrabuzrvogovq,gqmrim,gwuzv nulbszu,gragvagpvoaugva
vlkbmuzjgRg kglkbgclkqgqmtgRgamkso glkbgvagqroorlxotguf.zviugurbmuzgbmu
r uvagkpgWovbk,gkzgbmugvbkfagkpgUwriszsa,gkzgbmugwoulsfgkzgnvissfgkp
Ousirwwsagvl g ufkizrbsa,gkzgbmugqvbuzgkpgBmvoua,gkzgbmugrlprlrbt
kpglvbszugkpgVlvhrfvl uz,gkzgbmugvrzgkpg rkxulua,gkzgbmuglsf.uzagvl 
atffubztgkpgWtbmvxkzva,gkzgbmugrlprlrbtgkpgWvzfulr ua,gkzgbmugKlugkp
Fsaæsa,gkzgbmugqvbuzgvl gprzugkpgVwkook kzsa,gkzgbmugarfrovzgwvzbagkp
Vlvhvxkzva,gkzgbmug raikz gvl gpzrul amrwgkpgUfwu kioua,gkzgbmugprzugkp
Muzviorbsa,gkzgvltgkbmuzgkwrlrklgkpgbmvbgrlprlrbugiklpsarklgkpgkwrlrkla
vl g ubuzfrlvbrkla,gqmrimgbmragprlugmsfvlgzuvaklgwzk siuag.tgrba
iuzbrbs ugvl giouvzarxmbu luaagrlgunuztgbmrlxgrbgfu  ouagqrbmvo,gvagR
amkso gbmugkwrlrklgkpgVzrabkbougswklgbmragas.yuibgkpgbmugwzrlirwoua
kpglvbszvogbmrlxa;gqmrimgwzrlirwouagmug.sro agkpgbmzuugwruiua--fvbbuz,
pkzf,gvl gwzrnvbrkljgVl gqmvbgivlg.ugfkzugnvrlgbmvlgbkgfvcugrlvlrbt
rbauopgbmugivsaugkpgbmugwzk sibrklgkpgbmrlxa?gWzrnvbrklgragvgluxvbrnu;
kpgqmvbgmsfkszgikso gmugbmulgfvcugbmugivsaugvl gkzrxrlvogkpgbmrlxagbmvb
vzu?gVl gtubgbmvbgquzuglkbgbkg.ugiklbzknuzbu g.sbgpkzgbmuguhuziraugkp
okxri;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxg rawsbu gbmuzurlgbkg.zrlxgrbgrlbkg ks.b,g.sbgbk
 upul gbmugvsbmkzgkpgbmugaimkkogpzkfgpkzurxlgk.yuibrkla;gmragvsbmkzrbt
ragbmuglkl-sobzv,g.utkl gqmrimgrbgraglkbgwuzfrbbu gbkgrlesrzuj

Rbgragnuztguvat,gswklgvwwzknu gpksl vbrkla,gbkg.sro gqmvbunuzgqugwouvau;
pkz,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugovqgvl gkz uzrlxgkpgbmrag.uxrllrlx,gbmugkbmuz
wvzbagkpgbmugabzsibszugvzuguvarotgivzzru gklgqrbmksbgvltgpvroszujg.t
bmragqvtgqugprl gkszgzuvaklgquoo-xzksl u ,gvl g raikszaugvbgvgnulbszu;
pkzgkszgfvabuzagwzuwkaauaagvl gxvrlg.upkzumvl gvagfsimgzkkfgrlgksz
.uorupgvagragluiuaavztgbkqvz agiklios rlxgvpbuzqvz agqmvbgbmut
wouvau,gvagxukfubzrirvlag kg.tgbmurzgxzvlbu g ufvl a,gbmugiklaulbgvl 
vwwzk.vbrklgqugvookqgbmufgxrnrlxgbmufgqmuzuqrbmgbkg zvqgsagbkgbmugzrxmb
vl goupb,gvl gbkgqmrzogsagv.ksbgvbgbmurzgwouvaszujgQmvbunuzgawzrlxagpzkf
bmuaugwzuaswwkarbrklagragkszgfvabuzgvl gkszgXk ;gmugqroogbvcugbmugounuo
kpgmragpksl vbrklagakgvfwougvl gakguvatgbmvbg.tgbmufgmugfvtgfkslbgsa
swgbkgbmugioks a,grpgmugakgwouvaujgRlgbmragwzvibriugvl gluxkbrvbrkl
kpgairuliugqugmvnugbvculgbmugavtrlxgkpgWtbmvxkzva,g“Bmvbgunuztguhwuzb
wuzaklgksxmbgbkg.ug.uorunu grlgmragkqlgvzb”gpkzgiszzulbgwvtjgBmu
okxrirvlgzupuzagbmugarxlrprivbrklgkpgqkz agbkgbmugxzvffvzrvla;gbmu
zmubkzrirvlg.kzzkqagbmugabvbugkpgvzxsfulbagpzkfgbmugokxrirvl;gbmugwkub
mragfuvaszugpzkfgbmugfsarirvl:gbmugxukfubzrirvlgmragwzkwkzbrklagpzkf
bmugvzrbmfubrirvl,gvl gbmugfubvwmtarirvlagbvcugwmtarivogiklyuibszuagpkz
bmurzgpksl vbrkla;gpkzgunuztgairuliugmvagrbagwzrlirwougwzuaswwkau ,g.t
qmrimgmsfvlgys xfulbgragunuztqmuzugcuwbgrlgimuicjgRpgtksgikfugbkgzsam
vxvrlabgbmug.vzgqmuzugbmugwzrlirwvoguzzkzgorua,gbmutgmvnugwzuaulbotgbmra
aulbuliugrlgbmurzgfksbma,g“Bmvbgbmuzugraglkg rawsbrlxgqrbmgwuzaklagqmk
 ultgwzrlirwouaj”gLkqgfulgivlgmvnuglkgwzrlirwouagrpglkbgzunuvou gbkgbmuf
.tgbmug rnrlrbt;gkpgvoogbmugzuabgbmug.uxrllrlx,gbmugfr  ou,gvl gbmu
ul ,graglkbmrlxg.sbg zuvfgvl gnvwkszjgBkgbmkaugbmvbgiklbul gswkl
wzuaswwkarbrklgqugfsab,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gwzuaswwkaugbkgbmufgbmugavfu
vhrkfgswklgqmrimgbmug rawsbugrajgPkzgunuztgmsfvlgwzuaswwkarbrklgvl 
 uiovzvbrklgmvagvagfsimgvsbmkzrbtgklugvagvlkbmuz,grpgzuvaklg kglkbgfvcu
bmug rppuzuliujgQmuzupkzugbmutgvzugvoogbkg.ugwsbgrlbkgbmug.vovliu,gvl 
przabgbmugxuluzvoagvl gbmkaugbmvbgbtzvllrdugknuzgsajgBmugwuzasvarklgkp
iuzbvrlbtgragvgiuzbvrlgbuabrfkltgkpgpkootgvl guhbzufugrliuzbvrlbt;
vl gbmuzugvzuglkbgvgfkzugpkkoramgakzbgkpgful,glkzgbmvbgvzugouaa
wmrokakwmuza,gbmvlgbmugWmrok khuagkpgWovbk;gqugfsabgrlesrzugqmubmuzgprzu
.ugmkb?gqmubmuzgalkqg.ugqmrbu?grpgbmuzug.ugvltgasimgbmrlxagvagmvz gkz
akpbgqrbmrlgkszgclkqou xu?

Vl gvagbkgbmkaugvlaquzagkpgqmrimgbmutgfvcugko gabkzrua,gvagmugbmvb
 ks.bu grpgbmuzugqvagvltgasimgbmrlxgvagmuvb,gqmkfgbmutg.r gbmzkqgmrfauop
rlbkgbmugprzu;gvl gmugbmvbg ulru gbmugiko luaagkpgriu,gqmkfgbmutg.r 
bkgwsbgriugrlbkgmrag.kakf;--bmutgvzugwrbrpsogbmrlxa,gslqkzbmtgkpgbmu
wzkpuaarklgkpgwmrokakwmtjgRpgbmutgmv goubgsagvoklugrlgkszglvbszvo
.urlx,gbkgzuiurnugbmugvwwuvzvliugkpgbmrlxagqrbmksbgsa,gviikz rlxgvagbmut
wzuaulbgbmufauonuagbkgsag.tgkszgaulaua,gvl gmv gwuzfrbbu gsagbkgpkookq
kszgkqlglvbszvogvwwubrbua,gxknuzlu g.tgbmugikl rbrklgkpgkszg.rzbm,gbmut
frxmbgbmulgmvnugzuvaklgbkgbvocgvbgbmvbgzvbu;g.sbg‘bragpzkfgbmufgqugmvnu
ouvzlu gbkgfvcugkszauonuagys xuagkpgbmugqkzo ;g‘bragpzkfgbmufgbmvbgqu
 uzrnugbmragpvlit,g“Bmvbgmsfvlgzuvaklgragiklbzkoouz-xuluzvogkpgvoogbmvb
ragqrbmksbgvl gqrbmrlgbmugzkkpgkpgmuvnul;gbmvbgikfwzumul agunuztgbmrlx,
bmvbgivlg kgunuztgbmrlx;g.tgbmugfuvlagkpgqmrimgunuztgbmrlxgragclkqlgvl 
sl uzabkk j”gBmragvlaquzgqkso g.ugxkk gvfklxgbmugivllr.voa,gqmkgulykt
bmugmvwwrluaagkpgvgoklx,gesrub,gvl gwuviuv.ougorpu,gqrbmksbgVzrabkbou’a
wzuiuwba,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmuglvfugkpgwmtaria;gbmragvlaquz
qkso gwuzmvwag.ugkpgfkzugnvosugvl gxzuvbuzgpkziugbmvlgvoogbmkaugbmut
.kzzkqgpzkfgbmurzgzuvaklgvl grlnulbrkl;gkpgbmragvoogvlrfvoa,gvl gvoo
qmuzugbmugwkquzgkpgbmugovqgkpglvbszugragtubgwszugvl garfwou,gqkso g.u
vagivwv.ougvagqu,g.sbgvagpkzgbmufgbmutgmvnugzulksliu grbjgBmutgluu glkb
buoogsa,g“Rbgragbzsu,gpkzgtksgauugvl gpuuogrbgbkg.ugak;”gbmutgfsabgbuoo
fugqmubmuzgRgzuvootgpuuogqmvbgRgbmrlcgRg k;gvl grpgRg kgpuuogrb,gbmut
fsabgbmulgbuoogfugqmtgRgpuuogrb,gvl gmkq,gvl gqmvb;goubgbmufgbuoogfugbmu
lvfu,gkzrxrlvo,gbmugwvzbagvl gyslibszuagkpgmuvbgvl giko ,gbmugesvorbrua
kpgbmugvxulbgvl gwvbrulb;gkzgoubgbmufgxrnugswgbmurzgwzkpuaarkl,gqmrimgra
lkbgbkgv frbgkzgvwwzknugkpgvltgbmrlxg.sbg.tgbmugqvtgkpgzuvakl;gbmvbgra
bmurzgbuabgrlgvoogakzbagkpguaavta;g.sb,giuzbvrlot,g‘bragvgbuabgpsoogkp
pvoarbt,guzzkz,gquvcluaa,gvl g upuibj

Qmrimgqvtgivlgqug.ubbuzgwzknugrbgbmvlg.tgrbauop?gRpgqugvzuglkbgbk
.uorunugmuzgqmulgawuvcrlxgkpgmuzauop,gamugivlgmvz otg.ugbmksxmbgprbgbk
ys xugkpgpkzurxlgbmrlxa;grpgamugclkqgvltgbmrlx,grbgfsabgvbgouvabg.ugmuz
kqlg.urlxgvl gv.k u;gamugragrlgbmugakso,gvl gurbmuzgvgwvzbgkzgvlguppuib
kpgrb;gpkzgbzsugvl guaaulbrvogzuvakl,gpzkfgqmrimgqug.tgvgpvoaugikoksz
.kzzkqgbmuglvfu,gragok xu grlgbmug.kakfgkpgbmugVofrxmbt;gbmuzugragmuz
mv.rbvbrklgvl gzuiuaa;g‘bragbmuliugbmvbgamugrfwvzbagmuzgzvta,gqmulgXk 
ragwouvau gbkgrfwvzbgvltg.uvfgkpgrbgbkgfvlcrl ,gvag.vorvagraasu gpzkf
muzgpvbmuz’agmuv ,gbkgikffslrivbugmuzauopgbkgbmugqkzo j

Lkqgoubgsagauugqmvbgmsfvlgzuvaklgbuooagsagkpgmuzauopgvl gkpgbmugakso,
lkbgkpgbmugaksogrlgxuluzvo,gkpgqmrimgvofkabgvoogwmrokakwmtgfvcuagbmu
iuouabrvogvl gprzabg.k ruagwvzbrirwvlba;glkzgkpgbmvbgqmrimgBmvoua
vbbzr.sbu gbkgbmrlxagqmrimgbmufauonuagvzugzuwsbu grlvlrfvbu,gouv 
bmuzubkg.tgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugokv abklu;g.sbgkpgbmvbgqmrim
vwwuzbvrlagbkgsa,gvl gbmvbgqugksxmbgbmug.uabgbkgclkq:--


ggggggRxlkzvbszgulrf,gesægarbglvbszvgvlrfvr;
gggLvbvgarb;gvl,giklbzv,glvaiulbr.sagrlarlsubsz;
gggUbgarflogrlbuzuvbglk.raisfgfkzbug rzufwbv;
gggVlgbulu.zvagKzirgnravb,gnvabvaesugovislva,
gggVlgwuis uagvorvag rnrlrblagrlarlsubgauj

gggggg“Pkzglklugbmuglvbszugkpgbmugaksog kbmgclkq,
gggQmubmuzgbmvbgrbg.ug.kzlgqrbmgsa,gkzglk;
gggKzg.ugrlpsau grlbkgsagvbgkszg.rzbm,
gggVl g ruagqrbmgsagqmulgqugzubszlgbkguvzbm,
gggKzgbmulg uaiul agbkgbmug.ovicgamv uag.uokq,
gggKzgrlbkgkbmuzgvlrfvoag kuagxkj”


Izvbuagvl g riævzimsagquzugkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmuzugqvaglkgaksogvbgvoo,
.sbgbmvbgbmug.k tgbmsagabrzag.tgvglvbszvogfkbrkl;gWovbk,gbmvbgrbgqvagv
as.abvliugfknrlxgkpgrbauop;gBmvoua,gvglvbszugqrbmksbgzuwkau;gVu uwrv ua,
vlguhuzirarlxgkpgbmugaulaua;gMuark gvl gVlvhrfvl uz,gvgbmrlxgikfwkau gkp
uvzbmgvl gqvbuz;gWvzfulr ua,gkpguvzbmgvl gprzu;gUfwu kioua,gkpg.okk :--


gggAvlxsrluvfgnkfrbgroougvlrfvf;

ggg“Mugnkfrbagswgmrag.okk tgaksoj”


Wkar klrsa,gIouvlbmua,gvl gXvoul,gbmvbgrbgqvagmuvbgkzgvgmkbgikfwouhrkl--


gggRxlusaguabgkooragnrxkz,gubgikouabragkzrxk;

ggg“Bmurzgnrxkszgkpgprzugvl gkpgmuvnulotgzviuj”


Mrwwkizvbua,gvgawrzrbg rppsau gvoogknuzgbmug.k t;gNvzzk,gbmvbgrbgqvagvl
vrzgzuiurnu gvbgbmugfksbm,gmuvbu grlgbmugoslxa,gfkrabulu grlgbmugmuvzb,
vl g rppsau gbmzksxmksbgbmugqmkoug.k t;gDulk,gbmugesrlbuaauliugkpgbmu
pkszguoufulba;gMuzvior uagWklbrisa,gbmvbgrbgqvagbmugorxmb;gDulkizvbua
vl gbmugUxtwbrvla,gvgfk.rouglsf.uz;gbmugImvo uvla,gvgnrzbsugqrbmksbgvlt
 ubuzfrlvbugpkzf:--


ggggggMv.rbsfgesuf vfgnrbvoufgikzwkzraguaau,
gggMvzfklrvfgXzæirgesvfg rislbj

gggggg“Vgiuzbvrlgnrbvogmv.rbgrlgfvl’agpzvfu,
gggQmrimgmvzfkltgbmugXzuirvlgavxuaglvfuj”


OubgsaglkbgpkzxubgVzrabkbou,gqmkgmuo gbmugaksogbkg.ugbmvbgqmrim
lvbszvootgivsauagbmug.k tgbkgfknu,gqmrimgmugivooagulbuouimrv,gqrbm
vagiko gvlgrlnulbrklgvagvltgkpgbmugzuab;gpkzgmuglurbmuzgawuvcagkpgbmu
uaauliu,glkzgkpgbmugkzrxrlvo,glkzgkpgbmuglvbszugkpgbmugakso,g.sb
klotgbvcuaglkbriugkpgbmuguppuibgOvibvlbrsa,gAuluiv,gvl gfkabgkpgbmu
 kxfvbraba,gmvnugiklpuaau gbmvbgrbgqvagvgbmrlxgbmutg r glkbgsl uzabvl ;
vpbuzgvoogbmragulsfuzvbrklgkpgkwrlrkla,g_Mvzsfgaulbulbrvzsfgeskgnuzv
arb,g usagvoresragnr uzrb:_g“Kpgbmuaugkwrlrklagqmrimgragbmugbzsu,goub
akfugxk g ubuzfrlu,”gavtagIriuzkjg“Rgclkqg.tgftauop,”gavtagAbg.uzlvz ,
“mkqgrlikfwzumular.ougXk gra,gauurlxgRgivllkbgikfwzumul gbmugwvzbagkpgft
kqlg.urlxj”

Muzviorbsa,gqmkgqvagkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgunuztg.urlxgqvagpsoogkpgaksoagvl 
 ufkla,g r glunuzbmuouaagfvrlbvrlgbmvbglkgklugikso gv nvliugakgpvz
bkqvz agbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugaksogvagunuzgbkgvzzrnugvbgrb;gakgwzkpksl 
qvagbmuguaauliugkpgrbj

Lurbmuzgragbmuzugouaagiklbzknuzatgvl g u.vbugv.ksbgauvbrlxgkpgrbj
Mrwwkizvbuagvl gMruzkwmrosagwoviugrbgrlgbmugnulbzriougkpgbmug.zvrl;
 ufkizrbsagvl gVzrabkbougbmzksxmksbgbmugqmkoug.k t;--


ggggggSbg.klvgaæwugnvoubs kgisfg rirbszguaau
gggIkzwkzra,gubglklguabgbvfulgmæigwvzagsoovgzvoulbra;

gggggg“Vagqmulgbmug.k t’agmuvobmgbmutg kgrbgivoo,
gggQmulgkpgvgaksl gfvl,gbmvb’aglkgwvzbgvbgvooj”


Uwriszsagrlgbmugabkfvim;


ggggggMriguhasobvbgulrfgwvnkzgvigfubsa;
gggMæigokivgirzisfgOæbrbrægfsoiulbj

gggggg“Pkzgbmragbmugauvbgkpgmkzzkzgragvl gpuvz,
gggVl gyktagrlgbszlg kgorcuqraugbzrsfwmgmuzuj”


BmugAbkria,gv.ksbgvl gqrbmrlgbmugmuvzb;gUzvarabzvbsa,gv ykrlrlxgbmu
fuf.zvlugkpgbmuguwrizvlrsf;gUfwu kioua,grlgbmug.okk ;gvagvoakgFkaua,
qmrimgqvagbmugzuvaklgqmtgmugrlbuz ribu guvbrlxgbmug.okk gkpg.uvaba,
.uivsaugbmugaksogragbmuzugauvbu ;gXvoulgbmksxmbgbmvbgunuztgwvzbgkpgbmu
.k tgmv grbagakso;gAbzvbkgmvagwoviu grbg.ubqrhbgbmugutu.zkqa;g_Esâgpviru
esr ufgarbgvlrfsa,gvsbgs.rgmv.rbub,glugeskzul sfgesr ufguab:_g“Qmvb
prxszugbmugaksogragkp,gkzgqmvbgwvzbgrbgrlmv.rba,graglkbgbkg.ugrlesrzu 
rlbk,”gavtagIriuzkjgRgnuztgqroorlxotg uornuzgbmragvsbmkzgbkgtksgrlgmra
kqlgqkz a;gpkzgamkso gRgvobuzguokesuliugrbauop?g.uar ua,grbgquzug.sbgv
wkkzgwzrdugbkgabuvogbmugfvbbuzgkpgmragrlnulbrkla;gbmutgvzuglurbmuz
nuztgpzuesulb,glkzgkpgvltgxzuvbgqurxmb,gvl gaspprirulbotgclkqljg.sbgbmu
zuvaklgqmtgImztarwwsagvzxsuagrbgbkg.ugv.ksbgbmugmuvzb,gvagvoogbmugzuab
kpgbmvbgauibg k,graglkbgbkg.ugkfrbbu ;g“Rbgra,”gavtagmu,g“.uivsaugqmul
qugqkso gvpprzfgvltgbmrlxagqugovtgkszgmvl gswklgkszg.zuvaba;gvl gqmul
qugqkso gwzklksliugètù,gqmrimgarxlrpruagR,gqugoubgbmugokquzgyvqgpvoo
bkqvz agbmugabkfvimj”gBmragwoviugksxmbglkbgbkg.ugwvaau gknuzgqrbmksb
vgzufvzcgswklgbmugnvlrbtgkpgakgxzuvbgvgfvl;gpkzg.uar uagbmvbgbmuau
iklar uzvbrklagvzugrlprlrbuotgorxmbgrlgbmufauonua,gbmugovabgragklotgv
wzkkpgbkgbmugXzuucagbmvbgbmutgmvnugbmurzgaksoagok xu grlgbmvbgwvzbjgLk
msfvlgys xfulbgragakgawzrxmbotgvl gnrxrovlbgbmvbgrbg kuaglkbgakfubrfua
aouuwjgQmtg kgqugpuvzgbkgavt?gBmugAbkria,gbmugpvbmuzagkpgmsfvlgwzs uliu,
bmrlcgbmvbgbmugaksogkpgvgfvl,gizsamu gsl uzgvgzsrl,goklxgov.ksza
vl gabzrnuagbkgxubgksb,gorcugvgfksaugivsxmbgrlgvgbzvw,g.upkzugrbgivl
 raulxvxugrbauopgpzkfgbmug.sz uljgAkfugmko gbmvbgbmugqkzo gqvagfv ugbk
xrnug.k rua,g.tgqvtgkpgwslramfulb,gbkgbmugawrzrbagpvooul,g.tgbmurzgkql
pvsob,gpzkfgbmugwszrbtgqmuzurlgbmutgmv g.uulgizuvbu ,gbmugprzabgizuvbrkl
mvnrlxg.uulgrlikzwkzuvo;gvl gbmvb,gviikz rlxgvagbmutgvzugfkzugkzgouaa
 uwzvnu gpzkfgbmurzgawrzrbsvorbt,gakgvzugbmutgfkzugkzgouaagykisl otgkz
 sootgrlikzwkzvbu ;gvl gbmvbgbmuliugwzkiuu agvoogbmugnvzrubtgkpgakgfsim
izuvbu gfvbbuzjg.sbgbmugawrzrbgbmvbgpkzgmragwslramfulbgqvagrlnuabu 
qrbmgbmug.k tgkpgbmugaslgfsabgiuzbvrlotgmvnugvgnuztgzvzugvl gwvzbrisovz
fuvaszugkpgimvlxuj

Bmuguhbzufrbruagkpgkszgwuzesrarbrklg kgvoogpvoogrlbkgvabklramfulb
vl g.orl luaa;gvagWosbvzimgavtagkpgbmugbuabrfkltgkpgmrabkzrua,gbmvb,
viikz rlxgbkgimvzbagvl gfvwa,gbmugsbfkabg.ksl agkpgclkqlgzgikslbzruagvzu
bvculgswgqrbmgfvzamua,grfwulubzv.ougpkzuaba,g uauzba,gvl gslrlmv.rbv.ou
woviua;gbmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugfkabgxzkaagvl gimro ramgzvnrlxagquzu
fkabgpksl grlgbmkaugvsbmkzagqmkgbzuvbgkpgbmugfkabguounvbu gas.yuiba,gvl 
wzkiuu gbmugpszbmuabgrlgbmuf,gokarlxgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzgkqlgiszrkarbt
vl gwzuasfwbrkljgBmug.uxrllrlxgvl gul gkpgclkqou xugvzuguesvootgpkkoram;
k.auznugbkgqmvbgvgwrbimgWovbkgporuagrlgmragwkubrigioks a;g kg.sbgbvcu
lkbriugbmuzugkpgbmugxr..uzramgkpgbmugxk a;g.sbgqmvbg r gmug zuvfgkpgqmul
mug uprlu gvgfvlgbkg.ug“vgbqk-ouxxu gvlrfvogqrbmksbgpuvbmuza:gxrnrlx
bmkaugqmkgmv gvgfrl gbkg uzr ugmrfgvgwouvavlbgkiivarkl;gpkz,gmvnrlx
wsoou gvgivwklgvornu,gbmutgqulbgv.ksbgivoorlxgrbgbmugfvlgkpgWovbkj”

Vl gqmvbg r gbmugUwriszuvlagbmrlcgkp,gksbgkpgqmvbgarfworirbtg r gbmut
przabgrfvxrlugbmvbgbmurzg_vbkfa_gbmvbgbmutgavr gquzug.k ruagmvnrlxgakfu
qurxmb,gvl gvglvbszvogfkbrklg kqlqvz a,gmv gfv ugbmugqkzo ;gbroo
bmutgquzugwsbgrlgfrl ,g.tgbmurzgv nuzavzrua,gbmvb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmra
 uaizrwbrkl,grbgqvagrfwkaar.ougbmutgamkso gslrbugvl gykrlgbkgklu
vlkbmuz,gbmurzgpvoog.urlxgakg rzuibgvl gwuzwul risovz,gvl gfvcrlxgak
fvltgwvzvoouogorluagbmzksxmksb?gQmuzupkzugbmuzugqvagvgluiuaarbtgbmvb
bmutgamkso garliugv  gvgpkzbsrbksagvl gar uqvtagfkbrkl,gvl gbmvbgbmut
amkso gfkzuknuzgviiksbzugbmurzgvbkfagqrbmgmkkcu gbvroa,g.tgqmrimgbmut
frxmbgslrbugvl giorlxgbkgklugvlkbmuzjgVl gunulgbmulg kglkbgbmkaugbmvb
vbbvicgbmufgswklgbmragauikl giklar uzvbrklgwsbgbmufgmvz otgbkgrb?g“Rp
bmugvbkfagmvnug.tgimvliugpkzfu gakgfvltgakzbagkpgprxszua,gqmtg r grb
lunuzgpvoogksbgbmvbgbmutgfv ugvgmksaugkzgvgamku?gQmtgvbgbmugavfugzvbu
amkso gquglkbg.uorunugbmvbgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgXzuucgoubbuza,
abzuqu gvoogknuzgvgiuzbvrlgwoviu,gfrxmbgpvoogrlbkgbmugiklbuhbszugkpgbmu
_Rorv ?_”--“Qmvbunuzgragivwv.ougkpgzuvakl,”gavtagDulk,g“rag.ubbuzgbmvl
bmvbgqmrimgraglkbgivwv.ou;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxg.ubbuzgbmvlgbmugqkzo ;
bmugqkzo gragbmuzupkzugivwv.ougkpgzuvaklj”gIkbbv,g.tgbmragqvtgkp
vzxsfulbvbrkl,gfvcuagbmugqkzo gvgfvbmufvbrirvl;g‘vl gbragvoakgfv ugv
fsarirvlgvl gvlgkzxvlrabg.tgbmragkbmuzgvzxsfulbvbrklgkpgDulk:g“Bmu
qmkougragfkzugbmvlgvgwvzb;gqugvzugivwv.ougkpgqra kf,gvl gvzugwvzbgkpgbmu
qkzo ;gbmuzupkzugbmugqkzo gragqrauj”gBmuzugvzugrlprlrbugorcuguhvfwoua,
lkbgklotgkpgvzxsfulbagbmvbgvzugpvoaugrlgbmufauonua,g.sbgarootgklua,gbmvb
 kglkbgmko grlgbmufauonua,gvl gbmvbgviisaugbmurzgvsbmkzaglkbgakgfsim
kpgrxlkzvliugvagrfwzs uliu,grlgbmugzuwzkvimuagbmugwmrokakwmuzag vamgklu
vlkbmuzgrlgbmugbuubmgqrbmvo,gswklgbmurzg raaularklagrlgbmurzgauibagvl 
kwrlrklaj

Qmkunuzgamkso g.sl ougswgvgosabtgpvxxkbgkpgbmugpkkouzruagkpgmsfvlgqra kf
qkso gwzk siugqkl uzajgRgqroorlxotgfsabuzgswgbmuaugpuqgpkzgvgwvbbuzl,
.tgvgiuzbvrlgfuvlrlxglkbgouaagwzkprbv.ougbkgiklar uzgbmvlgbmugfkabgaksl 
vl gfk uzvbugrlabzsibrklajgOubgsagys xug.tgbmuaugqmvbgkwrlrklgqugvzugbk
mvnugkpgfvl,gkpgmragaulaugvl gzuvakl,gqmulgrlgbmuaugxzuvbgwuzaklagbmvb
mvnugzvrau gmsfvlgclkqou xugakgmrxm,gakgfvltgxzkaagfrabvcuagvl gfvlrpuab
uzzkzagvzugbkg.ugpksl j

Pkzgftgwvzb,gRgvfgvwbgbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmutgmvnugbzuvbu gkpgclkqou xu
ivasvoot,gvl gorcugvgbkt,gqrbmg.kbmgmvl a;gvl gmvnugiklbul u gv.ksb
zuvaklgvagkpgvgnvrlgvl gpzrnkoksagrlabzsfulb,gaubbrlxgklgpkkbgvoogakzba
kpgpvliruagvl grlnulbrkla,gakfubrfuagfkzugarluqt,gvl gakfubrfuagquvcuzj
BmragavfugWovbk,gqmkg uprluagfvlgvagrpgmugquzugvgikic,gavtaguoauqmuzu,
vpbuzgAkizvbua,g“Bmvbgmug kuaglkb,grlgbzsbm,gclkqgqmvbgfvlgra,gvl gbmvb
mugragvgfuf.uzgkpgbmugqkzo gbmugmvz uabgbkgsl uzabvl j”g.tgbmragnvzrubt
vl grlabv.rorbtgkpgkwrlrkla,gbmutgbvirbotgouv gsa,gvagrbgquzug.tgbmu
mvl ,gbkgbmragzuakosbrklgkpgbmurzgrzzuakosbrkljgBmutgwzkpuaaglkbgvoqvta
bkg uornuzgbmurzgkwrlrklag.vzupviu gvl gvwwvzulbgbkgsa;gbmutgmvnugklu
qmroug raxsrau gbmufgrlgbmugpv.soksagamv kqagkpgwkubzt,gvl gvbgvlkbmuz
rlgakfugkbmuzgnrdkz;gpkzgkszgrfwuzpuibrklgivzzruagbmragvoakgvoklxgqrbm
rb,gbmvbgizs ugfuvbgraglkbgvoqvtagwzkwuzgpkzgkszgabkfvima;gqugfsabg zt,
vobuz,gvl gfrhgrb;gbmutg kgbmugavfu;gbmutgakfubrfuagikliuvogbmurzgzuvo
kwrlrklagvl gys xfulba,gvl gpvoarptgbmufgbkgviikffk vbugbmufauonuagbk
bmugws.origsaujgBmutgqrooglkbgfvcugvlgkwulgwzkpuaarklgkpgrxlkzvliu,gvl 
kpgbmugrf.uirorbtgkpgmsfvlgzuvakl,gbmvbgbmutgfvtglkbgpzrxmbgimro zul;
.sbgbmutgaspprirulbotg raiknuzgrbgbkgsagsl uzgbmugvwwuvzvliugkpgv
bzks.ou gvl grliklabvlbgairuliuj

Rgv nrau gvgwuzaklgrlgRbvot,gqmkgmv gvgxzuvbgfrl gbkgawuvcgRbvorvl,gbmvb
wzknr u gmugklotgmv gvg uarzugbkgfvcugmrfauopgsl uzabkk ,gqrbmksbg.urlx
vf.rbrksagrlgvltgkbmuzgzuawuibgbkguhiuo,gbmvbgmugamkso gklotgfvcugsau
kpgbmugprzabgqkz gbmvbgivfugbkgbmugbklxsu’agul ,gqmubmuzgOvbrl,gPzulim,
Awvlram,gkzgXvaikl,gvl gbmvb,g.tgv  rlxgbmugRbvorvlgbuzfrlvbrkl,gmu
ikso glkbgpvrogkpgmrbbrlxgswklgakfugr rkfgkpgbmugikslbzt,gurbmuzgBsaivl,
Zkfvl,gNulubrvl,gWru fklbuau,gkzgLuvwkorbvl,gvl gakgpvoogrlgqrbmgakfu
klugkpgbmkaugfvltgpkzfajgRgavtgbmugavfugkpgWmrokakwmt;gamugmvagakgfvlt
pviua,gakgfsimgnvzrubt,gvl gmvagavr gakgfvltgbmrlxa,gbmvbgvoogkszg zuvfa
vl gzvnrlxagvzugbmuzugbkg.ugpksl jgMsfvlgpvlitgivlgikliurnuglkbmrlx
xkk gkzg.v gbmvbgraglkbgbmuzu:g_Lrmrogbvfgv.asz ug r gwkbuab,gesk glkl
 rivbszgv.gvoreskgwmrokakwmkzsfj_g“Lkbmrlxgivlg.ugavr gakgv.asz ,gbmvb
mvaglkbg.uulgavr g.upkzug.tgakfugkpgbmugwmrokakwmuzaj”gVl gRgvfgbmugfkzu
qroorlxgbkguhwkaugftgqmrfaruagbkgbmugws.ori;gpkzvafsimgva,gbmksxmgbmut
vzugawslgksbgkpgftauop,gvl gqrbmksbgvltgwvbbuzl,gRgclkqgbmutgqroog.u
pksl gzuovbu gbkgakfugvlirulbgmsfksz,gvl gakfugqrooglkbgabricgbkgavt,
“Auugqmuliugmugbkkcgrb!”gFtgfvlluzagvzuglvbszvo,gRgmvnuglkbgivoou grl
bmugvaarabvliugkpgvltg rairworlugbkguzuibgbmuf;g.sb,gquvcgvagbmutgvzu,
qmulgrbgivfugrlbkgftgmuv gbkgovtgbmufgkwulgbkgbmugqkzo ’agnruq,gvl gbmvb
bkguhwkaugbmufgbkgbmugorxmbgrlgvgorbbougfkzug uiulbgxvz.gRgqulbgbkgv kzl
bmufgqrbmgzuvaklagvl guhvfwoua,grbgqvagvgqkl uzgbkgftauopgviir ulbvoot
bkgprl gbmufgiklpkzfv.ougbkgakgfvltgwmrokakwmrivog raikszauagvl 
uhvfwouajgRglunuzgcluqgqmvbgzuxrfulgftgorpugqvagkpgbroogrbgqvagluvz
qkzlgksbgvl gawulb;gvgluqgprxszu--vlgslwzufu rbvbu gvl gviir ulbvo
wmrokakwmuzj

.sbgbkgzubszlgbkgbmugaksojgRlvafsimgvagWovbkgmvagwoviu gzuvaklgrlgbmu
.zvrl,gvlxuzgrlgbmugmuvzb,gvl gikliswraiuliugrlgbmugornuz;g‘bragorcuot
bmvbgrbgqvagzvbmuzgvlgrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgbmugfknufulbagkp

bmugakso,gbmvlgbmvbgmugrlbul u gvg rnrarklgvl gauwvzvbrklgkpgrb,gvagkp
vg.k t,grlbkgaunuzvogfuf.uzajgVl gbmugfkabgorcuotgkpgbmurzgkwrlrkla
ragbmvbg‘bragvoqvtagvgakso,gbmvbg.tgrbagpvisobt,gzuvakla,gzufuf.uza,
ikfwzumul a,gys xua,g uarzua,gvl guhuzirauagvoogrbagkbmuzgkwuzvbrklag.t
 rnuzagrlabzsfulbagkpgbmug.k t;gvagbmugwrokbgxsr uagmragamrwgviikz rlx
bkgmraguhwuzruliu,gklugqmrougabzvrlrlxgkzgaovicrlxgbmugikz vxu,gklu
qmrougmkrabrlxgbmugfvrltvz ,gkzgzufknrlxgbmugzs  uz,g.tgklugvl gbmugavfu
wkquzgivzztrlxgklgaunuzvoguppuiba;gvl gbmvbgrbgragok xu grlgbmug.zvrl;
qmrimgvwwuvzagrlgbmvbgbmugqksl agvl gviir ulbagbmvbgbksimgbmvbgwvzbg k
rffu rvbuotgkppul gbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugakso;gvl g‘braglkbgrliklxzsksa
bmvbgrbgamkso gbmuliug rppsaugrbauopgbmzksxmgbmugkbmuzgwvzbagkpgbmug.k t


ggggggFu rsfglklg uauzrbgslesvf
gggIkuorgWmku.sagrbuz;gzv rragbvfulgkflrvgosabzâbj

gggggg“Wmku.saglu’uzg unrvbuagpzkfgbmugdk rvi’agqvt;
gggTubgvoogbmrlxag kbmgroosabzvbugqrbmgmragzvtj”


Vagbmugaslgamu agpzkfgmuvnulgrbagorxmbgvl grlposuliu,gvl gprooagbmu
qkzo gqrbmgbmuf:--


ggggggIæbuzvgwvzagvlrfva,gwuzgbkbsfg raarbvgikzwsa,
gggWvzub,gubgv glsfulgfulbragfkfulesugfknubszj

gggggg“Bmugkbmuzgwvzbgk’gbm’gaksog rppsa’ gvoogk’uz
gggBmug.k t,g kuagk.utgbmugzuvakl’agokzuj”


Akfugmvnugavr gbmvbgbmuzugqvagvgxuluzvogakso,gvagrbgquzugvgxzuvbg.k t,
qmuliugvoogbmugwvzbrisovzgaksoagquzuguhbzvibu ,gvl gbmrbmuzgvxvrl
zubszl,gvoqvtagzuabkzrlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmvbgslrnuzavogfvbbuz:--


gggggg usfglvfesugrzugwuzgkflua
gggBuzzvaesu,gbzvibsaesugfvzra,gikosfesugwzkpsl sf;
gggMrligwuis ua,gvzfulbv,gnrzka,gxulsagkflugpuzvzsf,
gggEsufesugar.rgbulsuaglvaiulbufgvziuaauzugnrbva:
gggAiroriubgmsugzu  rg url u,gvigzuakosbvgzupuzzr
gggKflrv;gluigfkzbrguaaugokisf:

gggggg“PkzgXk gxkuagpkzbm,gvl gawzuv agbmzksxmksbgbmugqmkou
gggMuvnul,guvzbm,gvl gauv,gbmugslrnuzavogakso;
gggUvimgvbgrbag.rzbm,gpzkfgmrfgvoog.urlxagamvzu,
ggg.kbmgfvlgvl g.zsbu,gbmug.zuvbmgkpgnrbvogvrz;
gggBkgmrfgzubszl,gvl ,gokka’ gpzkfguvzbmotgimvrl,
gggPotgqmuliugbmutgawzslx,gvl gzuabgrlgXk gvxvrl,
gggAwszlgvbgbmugxzvnu,gvl ,gpuvzouaagkpg uivt,
ggg quoogrlgmrxmgmuvnul,gvl gabvzgbm’gubmuzuvogqvtj”


Kbmuza,gbmvbgbmutgklotgzuykrlu gvl gzuslrbu gbmufauonuagbkgrb;gkbmuza,
bmvbgbmutgquzugwzk siu gpzkfgbmug rnrlugas.abvliu;gkbmuza,g.tgbmugvlxuoa
kpgprzugvl gvrz;gkbmuza,gbmvbgbmutgquzugpzkfgvoogvlbresrbt;gvl gakfu
bmvbgbmutgquzugizuvbu gvbgbmugnuztgwkrlbgkpgbrfugbmug.k ruagqvlbu 
bmuf;gkbmuzagfvcugbmufgbkg uaiul gpzkfgbmugkz.gkpgbmugfkkl,gvl gzubszl
bmrbmuz;gbmugxuluzvorbtgkpgbmugvlirulbag.uorunu gbmvbgbmutgquzug.uxkbbul
pzkfgpvbmuzgbkgakl,gvpbuzgvgorcugfvlluz,gvl gwzk siu gqrbmgvoogkbmuz
lvbszvogbmrlxa;gbvcrlxgbmurzgvzxsfulbgpzkfgbmugorculuaagkpgimro zulgbk
bmurzgpvbmuza;


ggggggRlabroovbvgwvbzragnrzbsagbr.r;
gggPkzbuagizuvlbszgpkzbr.sa,gubg.klra;

gggggg“Bmksgmvabgbmtgpvbmuz’agnrzbsuagqrbmgmrag.okk :
gggPkzgabroogbmug.zvnugawzrlxgpzkfgbmug.zvnugvl gxkk ;”


vl gbmvbgqugauug uaiul gpzkfgpvbmuzagbkgbmurzgimro zulglkbgklot
.k rotgfvzca,g.sbgfkzuknuzgvgzuauf.ovliugkpgmsfksza,gikfwouhrkla,gvl 
rliorlvbrklagkpgbmugakso:--


gggggg ulresugiszgvizragnrkoulbrvgbzrabugouklsf
gggAufrlrsfgauesrbsz?g kosagnsowr.sa,gubgpsxv,giuznra
gggVgwvbzr.sag vbsz,gubgwvbzrsagwvnkzgrlirbâbgvzbsa?
gggArglklgiuzbvgaskgesrvgaufrlugaufrlrkesu
gggNragvlrfrgwvzrbuzgizuairbgisfgikzwkzugbkbkj

gggggg“Pkzgqmtgamkso gzvxugpzkfgbmugpruziugorkl’agauu ,
gggKzgpzkfgbmugas.bougpkh’agizvpb,gwzkiuu ;
gggKzgqmtgbmugbrf’zksagvl gpotrlxgmvzb
gggMragpuvzgvl gbzuf.orlxgbkgmragzviugrfwvzb;
ggg.sbgbmvbgvgiuzbvrlgpkziugkpgfrl g kuagxzkq,
gggVl gabroogrlizuvauagvagbmug.k ruag k?”


Bmvbgbmuzuswklgbmug rnrlugysabriugragxzksl u ,gwslramrlxgrlgbmugimro zul
bmugpvsobagkpgbmurzgpvbmuza;gpkzvafsimgvagbmugiklbvxrklgkpgwvbuzlvo
nriuagragrlgakfugakzbgrfwzrlbu grlgbmugaksogkpgimro zul,gvl gbmvbgbmu
roogxknuzlfulbgkpgbmurzgqrooguhbul agbkgbmuf;gfkzuknuz,gbmvbgrpgaksoa
mv gvltgkbmuzg uzrnvbrklgbmvlgvglvbszvogiklauesuliu,gvl gbmvbgbmutgmv 
.uulgakfugkbmuzgbmrlagksbgkpgbmug.k t,gbmutgqkso gzubvrlgakfugfufkzt
kpgbmurzgprzabg.urlx,gbmuglvbszvogpvisobruagbmvbgvzugwzkwuzgbkgbmufgkp
 raikszarlx,gzuvaklrlx,gvl gzufuf.uzrlx,g.urlxgiklar uzu :--


ggggggArgrlgikzwsaglvaiulbr.sagrlarlsvbsz,
gggIszgaswuzgvlbuvibvfgæbvbufgfufrlraaugluesrfsa,
gggLuignuabrxrvgxuabvzsfgzuzsfgsoovgbulufsa?

gggggg“Pkzgvbgkszg.rzbmgrpgrbgrlpsau g.u,
gggQmtg kgqugbmulgzubvrlglkgfufkzt
gggKpgkszgpkzuxkrlxgorpu,gvl gqmtglkgfkzu
gggZufuf.uzgvltgbmrlxgqug r g.upkzu?”


pkz,gbkgfvcugbmugikl rbrklgkpgkszgaksoagasimgvagqugqkso gmvnugrbgbkg.u,
qugfsabgaswwkaugbmufgvoo-clkqrlx,gunulgrlgbmurzglvbszvogarfworirbtgvl 
wszrbt;g.tgbmuaugfuvlagbmutgmv g.uulgasim,g.urlxgpzuugpzkfgbmugwzraklgkp
bmug.k t,gvagquoog.upkzugbmutgulbuzu grlbkgrb,gvagqugmkwugbmutgamvoog.u
vpbuzgbmutgvzugxklugksbgkpgrb;gvl gpzkfgbmragclkqou xugrbgamkso gpkookq
bmvbgbmutgamkso gzufuf.uz,g.urlxgxkbgrlgbmug.k t,gvagWovbkgavr ,g“Bmvb
qmvbgqugouvzlgraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgvgzufuf.zvliugkpgqmvbgqugcluqg.upkzu;”gv
bmrlxgqmrimgunuztgklug.tguhwuzruliugfvtgfvrlbvrlgbkg.ugpvoaujgPkzvafsim,
rlgbmugprzabgwoviu,gvagbmvbgqug kglkbgysabotgzufuf.uzgvltgbmrlxg.sb
qmvbgqugmvnug.uulgbvsxmb,gvl gbmvbgrpgbmugfufkztg r gwszuotgwuzpkzfgrba
kppriugrbgqkso gvbgouvabgasxxuabgbkgsagakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgqmvbgqugmvnu
ouvzlu jgAuikl ot,gbmvbgqmrimgamugcluqg.urlxgrlgmuzgwszrbt,gqvagv
bzsugclkqou xu,gclkqrlxgbmrlxagvagbmutgvzug.tgmuzg rnrlugrlbuoorxuliu;
qmuzuvagmuzugqugfvcugmuzgzuiurnugpvoaumkk gvl gnriugqmulgqugrlabzsib
muz;gqmuzurlgamugivllkbgufwoktgmuzgzufrlraiuliu,gbmvbgrfvxugvl 
ikliuwbrklgmvnrlxglunuzg.uulgwovlbu grlgmuzjgBkgavtgbmvbgbmugikzwkzvo
wzraklg kuagrlgasimgakzbgasppkivbugmuzglvbszvogpvisobrua,gbmvbgbmut
vzugbmuzugsbbuzotguhbrlib,gragprzabgiklbzvztgbkgbmragkbmuzg.uorupgkp
viclkqou xrlxgmuzgwkquzgbkg.ugakgxzuvb,gvl gbmugkwuzvbrklagkpgrbgbmvb
fulgaular.otgwuziurnugrlgbmragorpugakgv frzv.ou,gvagbkgmvnugbmuzu.t
iklios u gbmvbg rnrlrbtgvl gubuzlrbtgwvab,gvl gbmugrffkzbvorbtgbk
ikfu:--


ggggggLvfgargbvlbkwuzuguabgvlrzvrgfsbvbvgwkbuabva,
gggKflrvgsbgvibvzsfguhir uzrbgzubrlulbrvgzuzsf,
gggLkl,gsbgkwrlkz,guvgv.goubmkgyvfgoklxrkzguzzvbj

gggggg“Pkzgrpgbmugfrl g.ugimvlxu gbkgbmvbg uxzuu
gggVagkpgwvabgbmrlxagbkgokaugvoogfufkzt,
gggAkgxzuvbgvgimvlxugvagbmvb,gRgfsabgiklpuaa,
gggVwwuvzagbkgfugbmvlg uvbmg.sbgorbbougouaaj”


Pszbmuzfkzu,g‘bragmuzugqrbmgsa,gvl glkbguoauqmuzu,gbmvbgbmugpkziu
vl guppuibagkpgbmugaksogksxmbgbkg.ugiklar uzu ;gvoogbmugzuabgkpgmuz
wuzpuibrklagvzugnvrlgvl gsauouaagbkgmuz;g‘brag.tgmuzgwzuaulbgikl rbrkl
bmvbgvoogmuzgrffkzbvorbtgragbkg.ugzuqvz u gvl gwvr ,gvl gkpgbmugorpugkp
fvlgklotgbmvbgamugragbkgzul uzgvlgviikslbgRbgmv g.uulgrlysabriugbkgmvnu
abzrwwu gmuzgkpgmuzgfuvlagvl gwkquza;gbkgmvnug ravzfu gmuzgrlgkz uz,grl
bmugbrfugkpgmuzgivwbrnrbtgvl grfwzraklfulbgrlgbmugpouam,gkpgmuzgquvcluaa
vl grlprzfrbtgrlgbmugbrfugqmuzurlgamugqvagpkziu gvl gikfwuoou ,gbkgwvaa
vlgrlprlrbugvl gwuzwubsvogaulbuliugvl gikl uflvbrkl,gvl gbkgrlarabgswkl
bmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgakgamkzbgvgbrfu,gwuzv nulbszug.sbgvlgmkszgkzgbqk,
kzgvbgbmugfkabg.sbgvgiulbszt,gqmrimgmvaglkgfkzugwzkwkzbrklgqrbmgrlprlrbt
bmvlgvlgrlabvlb;grlgbmragfkfulbvztgrlbuznvogbkgkz vrlgvl g uprlrbrnuot
bkg ubuzfrlugkpgmuzgqmkoug.urlx;grbgquzugvlgslzuvaklv.oug rawzkwkzbrkl,
bkk,gbkgvaarxlgvlgubuzlvogzuikfwulaugrlgiklauesuliugkpgakgamkzbgvgorpuj
Wovbk,gbkg upul gmrfauopgpzkfgbmragrliklnulruliu,gqroogmvnugpsbszu
wvtfulbagorfrbu gbkgbmugbuzfgkpgvgmsl zu gtuvza,gzuovbrnuotgbkgmsfvl
 szvbrkl;gvl gkpgsagkszauonuagbmuzugvzugulksxmgqmkgmvnugxrnulgbmuf
bufwkzvogorfrbajg.tgbmragbmutgys xu gbmvbgbmugxuluzvbrklgkpgbmugakso
pkookqu gbmugikffklgikl rbrklgkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa,gvagvoakgmuzgorpu,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugkwrlrklgkpgUwriszsagvl g ufkizrbsa,gqmrimgmvag.uulgbmu
fkabgzuiurnu ;grlgiklauesuliugkpgbmuaugprlugvwwuvzvliuagbmvbgbmutgavq
rbg.kf,gvl gbmvb,gviikz rlxgvagbmug.k tgxzuqgfkzugivwv.ou,gbmutgavqgrb
rlizuvaugrlgnrxkszgvagbmugkbmuzg r ;gbmvbgrbagpuu.ouluaagrlgrlpvlitgqva
nuztgfvlrpuab,gvl grlgbrfugrbag.ubbuzgabzulxbmgvl gfvbszrbt,gvl gvpbuz
bmvbgrbag uioularklgvl gko gvxu,gvl gvbgovabgrbag uizuwrbs u:--


ggggggXrxlrgwvzrbuzgisfgikzwkzu,gubgslv
gggIzuaiuzugaulbrfsa,gwvzrbuzesugauluaiuzugfulbufj

gggggg“Aksoagqrbmgbmug.k ruagbkg.ug.kzlgqugfvt
ggg raiuzl,gqrbmgbmufgb’grlizuvau,gqrbmgbmufg uivtj”


Bmutgwuziurnu grbgbkg.ugivwv.ougkpg rnuzagwvaarkla,gvl gvxrbvbu gqrbm
 rnuzagwvrlpsogfkbrkla,gqmuliugrbgpuoogrlbkgovaarbs ugvl gsluvarluaa;
ivwv.ougkpgvobuzvbrklgvl gimvlxu,gkpgimuuzpsoluaa,gkpgabswr rbtgvl 
ovlxskz,gvl gas.yuibgbkg rauvauagvl grlyszrua,gvagbmugabkfvimgkzgbmu
pkkb;


ggggggFulbufgavlvzr,gikzwsagsbgæxzsf,
gggIuzvrfsa,gubgpouibrgfu rirlâgwkaaugnr ufsa;

gggggg“Aricgfrl a,gvagquoogvag.k rua,gqug kgauu
ggg.tgFu ’irlu’agnrzbsugkpbgzuabkzu gbkg.u;”


 vddou gvl grlbkhrivbu gqrbmgbmugpsfuagkpgqrlu,gykabou gpzkfgmuzgauvbg.t
bmugnvwkszagkpgvg.szlrlxgpunuz,govr gvaouuwg.tgbmugvwworivbrklgkpgakfu
fu rivfulba,gvl gzksau g.tgkbmuza,--


ggggggIkzwkzuvfglvbszvfgvlrfrguaaugluiuaauguab,
gggIkzwkzuragesklrvfgbuoragribsesugov.kzvb;

gggggg“Bmuzugfsabg.ugkpgluiuaarbt,gqugprl ,
gggVglvbszugbmvb’agikzwkzuvogkpgbmugfrl ,
ggg.uivsaugqugunr ulbotgauugrbgafvzba
gggVl gqksl u gragqrbmgamvpbagbmug.k tg vzba;”


bmutgavqgrbgvabklramu gvl gknuzbmzkqlgrlgvoogrbagpvisobruagbmzksxmgbmu
fuzug.rbugkpgvgfv g kx,gvl grlgbmvbgikl rbrklgbkgmvnuglkgabv.rorbt
kpgzuvakl,glkgaspprirulit,glkgnrzbsu,glkgwmrokakwmrivogzuakosbrkl,glk
zuarabvliugbmvbgikso guhufwbgrbgpzkfgbmugas.yuibrklgkpgasimgviir ulba;
bmugaovnuzgkpgvgiklbufwbr.ougiszgamu gswklgbmugmvl gkpgAkizvbua,gbk
amvcugvoogmragqra kfgvl gvoogmragxzuvbgvl gzuxsovbu grfvxrlvbrkla,gvl 
akgbkgvllrmrovbugbmuf,gv gbmvbgbmuzugzufvrlu glkgbzviugkpgmragpkzfuz
clkqou xu,--


ggggggNrajjjjgvlrfvogIklbsz.vbsz,gubjjjjg rnravgaukzasf
ggg rayuibvbsz,guk ufgrookg rabzvibvgnululk;

gggggg“Bmugwkquzgkpgbmugakso’ag rabsz.u ;gvl gqmul
gggBmvbgkliugrag.sbgauesuabuzu gpzkfgmuz,gbmul
ggg.tgbmugavfugwkraklg‘brag rawuzau gv.zkv ;”


vl gbmragwkraklgbkgprl glkgfkzugzuarabvliugrlgbmvbgxzuvbgaksogbmvlgrlgvl
rlpvlbgkpgpkszgtuvzagko ;gvgwkraklgaspprirulbgbkgfvcugvoogwmrokakwmt,grp
rbgquzugrlivzlvbu,g.uikfugpszrksagvl gfv ;grlakfsimgbmvbgIvbk,gqmk
unuzg ra vrlu g uvbmgvl gpkzbslu,gikso glkbgul szugbmugarxmbgkpgv
okkcrlx-xovaa,gkzgkpgqvbuz,gknuzqmuofu gqrbmgmkzzkzgvl gvppzrxmbgvb
bmugbmksxmbgkpgpvoorlx,g.tgbmugiklbvxrklgkpgvgfv g kx,grlbkgbmug rauvau
ivoou g.tgwmtarirvlagmt zkwmk.rv:--


ggggggNragfkz.rg rabzvibvgwuzgvzbsa
gggBsz.vbgvxulagvlrfvf,gawsfvlbuagæeskzugavoak
gggNulbkzsfgsbgnvor ragpuznuaislbgnrzr.sagsl æj

gggggg“Bmzksxmksbgbmugorf.ag rppsau ,gbmugpruziug rauvau
ggg rabsz.agbmugakso,gvagrlgbmug.zrltgauva,
gggBmugpkvfrlxgqvnuagbkgaquoogvl g.krogqugauu,
gggAbrzzu g.tgbmugqrl ’agrfwubskarbtj”


Lkq,gvagbkgbmragwvzbrisovz,gwmrokakwmtgmvagaspprirulbotgvzfu gfvlgbk
ulikslbuzgvoogkbmuzgviir ulbagurbmuzgqrbmgwvbruliu,gkz,grpgbmugauvzim
kpgbmvbgikabagbkkg uvz,g.tgvlgrlpvoor.oug upuvb,grlgbkbvootg uwzrnrlx
mrfauopgkpgvoogaulbrfulb;g.sbgbmuaugvzuguhwu rulbagbmvbgvzugklotgkpgsau
bkgvgaksog.urlxgrbauop,gvl grlgrbagpsoogwkquz,givwv.ougkpgzuvaklgvl 
 uor.uzvbrkl;g.sbglkbgvbgvoogwzkwuzgpkzgbmragrliklnulruliu,gqmuzu,grl
vgwmrokakwmuz,gbmugaksog.uikfuagbmugaksogkpgvgfv fvl,gbzks.ou ,
knuzbszlu ,gvl gokab;gqmrimgfvltgkiivarklagfvtgwzk siu,gvagvgbkk
numufulbgvxrbvbrklgbmvbgvltgnrkoulbgwvaarklgkpgbmugaksogfvtg.uxubgrl
rbauop;gkzgvgqksl grlgvgiuzbvrlgwvzbgkpgbmugwuzakl,gkzgnvwkszagpzkfgbmu
abkfvim,gvltgkpgqmrimgfvtgabswuptgbmugsl uzabvl rlxgvl gbszlgbmug.zvrlj


ggggggFkz.ragrlgikzwkzragvnrsaguzzvb
gggAæwugvlrfsa;g ufulbrbgulrf,g uorzvesugpvbsz;
gggRlbuz sfesugxzvnrgoubmvzxkgpuzbszgrlgvobsf
gggÆbuzlsfesugakwkzuf,gkisoragfrgbsesugiv ulbr:

gggggg“Pkzgqmulgbmug.k t’agaric,gvl groogvbguvau,
gggBmugfrl g kbmgkpbulgamvzugrlgbmug rauvau;
gggQkl uza,gxzkqagqro ,gvl gzvnua,gvl gakfubrfuag.t
gggVgmuvntgvl gvgabswr goubmvzxt,
gggRagknuzikfugvl givabgrlbkgvg uuw,
gggVgfkabgwzkpksl gvl gunuzovabrlxgaouuwj”


Bmugwmrokakwmuza,gfubmrlca,gmvnuglkbgfsimgbksimu gbmragabzrlx,glkgfkzu
bmvlgvlkbmuzgkpguesvogrfwkzbvliu;gbmutgmvnugbmrag rouffvgiklbrlsvoot
rlgbmurzgfksbma,gbkgiklakougkszgfkzbvogikl rbrkl:g“Bmugaksogragurbmuz
fkzbvogkzgrffkzbvo;grpgfkzbvo,grbgqroogasppuzglkgwvrl;grpgrffkzbvo,grb
qroogimvlxugpkzgbmug.ubbuzj”--Bmutglunuzgbksimgbmugkbmuzg.zvlim,g“Qmvb
rpgamugimvlxugpkzgbmugqkzau?”gvl gouvnugbkgbmugwkubagbmugfulviuagkp
psbszugbkzfulbajg.sbgbmuzu.tgbmutgfvcugbmufauonuagvgxkk gxvfujgBmuaugvzu
bqkgkfraarklagbmvbgRgkpbulgfuubgqrbmgrlgbmurzg raikszauajgRgzubszlgbk
bmugprzabj

Bmragaksogokauagbmugsaugkpgbmugaknuzurxlgabkrivogxkk ,gakgiklabvlbgvl 
akgprzfjgKszgprlugmsfvlgqra kfgfsabgmuzugtruo ,gvl gxrnugswgmuzgvzfajgVa
bkgbmugzuab,gbmutgvoakgiklar uzu ,g.tgbmugnvlrbtgkpgmsfvlgzuvakl,gbmvb
bmugfrhbszugvl gvaakirvbrklgkpgbqkgakgiklbzvztgbmrlxagvagbmugfkzbvogvl 
bmugrffkzbvo,gqvagslrfvxrlv.ou:--


ggggggEsrwwugubulrfgfkzbvougæbuzvkgyslxuzu,gubgslv
gggIklaulbrzugwsbvzu,gubgpslxrgfsbsvgwkaau,
ggg uarwuzuguabjgEsr gulrfg rnuzarsaguaaugwsbvl sfguab,
gggVsbgfvxragrlbuzgaug rayslibsfg raizuwrbvlaesu,
gggEsvf,gfkzbvougesk guab,grffkzbvorgvbesugwuzullr
gggYslibsf,grlgiklirork,gaænvagbkouzvzugwzkiuoova?

gggggg“Bmugfkzbvogvl gbm’gubuzlvo,gbmul,gbkg.oul ,
gggVl gbmrlcgbmutgivlgwszasugklugikffklgul ,
gggRagfv luaa:gpkzgqmvbgbmrlxagfkzug rpp’zulbgvzuj
ggg rabrlibgrlglvbszu,gvl g rawkau gbkgyvz?
gggMkqgivlgrbgbmulg.ugbmksxmbgbmvbgbmuaugamkso g.uvz,
gggQmulgbmsagiklykrlu ,gkpgmvzfagvlguesvogamvzu?”


Fkzuknuz,gbmutgwuziurnu gbmugaksogbul rlxgbkqvz ag uvbmgvagquoogvagbmu
.k t:--


gggArfsogknkgpuaavgpvbrairb:

ggg“Pvbrxsu gbkxubmuzgqrbmgbmugqurxmbgkpgtuvza:”


qmrim,gviikz rlxgbkgDulk,gbmugrfvxugkpgaouuwg kuagaspprirulbot
 ufklabzvbugbkgsa;gpkzgmugokkcagswklgrbg“vagvgpvrlbrlxgvl gpvoogkpgbmu
akso,gvagquoogvagkpgbmug.k t:”g_Iklbzvmrgvlrfsfgubgesvargov.rgwsbvb
vbesug uir uzu:_gvl ,gqmvbgbmutgwuziurnu grlgakfu,gbmvbgbmugakso
fvrlbvrlu grbagpkziugvl gnrxkszgbkgbmugovabgxvawgkpgorpu,gbmut
vbbzr.sbu gbkgbmugnvzrubtgkpg rauvaua,gvagrbgragk.auznv.ougrlgfulgvbgbmu
ovabguhbzufrbt,gbmvbgakfugzubvrlgklugaulau,gvl gakfugvlkbmuz;gklu
bmugmuvzrlx,gvl gvlkbmuzgbmugafuoo,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkpg upuibgkz
vobuzvbrkl;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbgakgslrnuzavogvg uwzrnvbrklgbmvbgakfu
wvzbag kglkbgzufvrlgnrxkzksagvl gulbrzu:--


ggggggLklgvorkgwvibk,gesvfgar,gwuagisfg koubgæxzr,
gggRlglsookgivwsbgrlbuzuvgarbgpkzbug kokzuj

gggggg“Ak,gkpbulgkpgbmugxksbgvgfvlgikfwovrla,
gggQmkaugmuv gra,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gpzuugpzkfgwvrlaj”


Bmugarxmbgkpgkszgys xfulbgra,gbkgbzsbm,gbmugavfugbmvbgbmugkqo’agutua
vzugbkgbmugawoul kszgkpgbmugasl,gavtagVzrabkboujg.tgqmvbgivlgqug.ubbuz
iklnrliugmrf,gbmvlg.tgakgxzkaag.orl luaagrlgakgvwwvzulbgvgorxmb?gPkzgbmu
iklbzvztgkwrlrklgkpgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgbmugakso,gqmrim,gIriuzkgavta,
qvagprzabgrlbzk siu ,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugbuabrfkltgkpg.kkcagvbgouvab,g.t
Wmuzuit ua

Atzrsa,grlgbmugbrfugkpgCrlxgBsoosag(bmksxmgakfugvbbzr.sbugrbgbkgBmvoua,
vl gkbmuzagbkgkbmuza),g‘bragbmugwvzbgkpgmsfvlgairuliugbmvbgragbzuvbu gkp
qrbmgbmugxzuvbuabg ks.bgvl 

zuauznvbrkljgBmugfkabgwkarbrnug kxfvbrabagvzugpvrl,grlgbmragwkrlb
wzrlirwvoot,gbkgpotgbkgbmugzupsxugkpgbmugViv uftjgLkgklug ks.bagqmvb
Vzrabkbougmvaguabv.oramu gswklgbmragas.yuib,glkgfkzugbmvlgvoogbmu
vlirulbagrlgxuluzvo,gqmkgmvl ougrbgqrbmgvgqvnuzrlxg.uorup:g_Zuf
xzvbraarfvfgwzkfrbbulbrsfgfvxragesvfgwzk.vlbrsf:_g“Vgbmrlxgfkzu
viiuwbv.ougrlgbmugwzkfrakzagbmvlgbmugwzknuzaj”gMugikliuvoagmrfauopgrl
ioks agkpgqkz agkpg rpprisob,gslrlbuoorxr.ougaulau,gvl gmvagoupbgbk
bmkaugkpgmragauibgvagxzuvbgvg rawsbugv.ksbgmragys xfulbgvagv.ksbgbmu
fvbbuzgrbauopj

Bqkgbmrlxagzul uzu gbmragkwrlrklgwovsar.ougbkgbmuf;gklu,gbmvb,gqrbmksb
bmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgaksoa,gbmuzugqkso g.uglkbmrlxgqmuzuklgbkgxzksl gbmu
nvrlgmkwuagkpgxokzt,gqmrimgragvgiklar uzvbrklgkpgqkl uzpso

zuwsbugrlgbmugqkzo ;gbmugkbmuz,gbmvbgrbgragvgnuztgwzkprbv.ougrfwzuaarkl,
vagWovbkgavta,gbmvbgnriua,gqmulgbmutguaivwugbmug raiknuztgvl gikxlrdvliu
kpgmsfvlgysabriu,gvzugabroogqrbmrlgbmugzuvimgkpgbmug rnrlu,gqmrimgqroo
wszasugbmufgunulgvpbuzgbmug uvbmgkpgbmugxsrobtjgFvlgraguhiuaarnuot
akorirbksagbkgwzkoklxgmrag.urlx,gvl gmvagbkgbmugsbfkabgkpgmragwkquz
wzknr u gpkzgrb;gbmuzugvzugfklsfulbagpkzgbmugiklauznvbrklgkpgbmug.k t,
vl gxokztgbkgwzuauznugbmuglvfujgMugmvagufwoktu gvoogmragqrbgvl gkwrlrkl
bkgbmugzu.sro rlxgkpgmrfauop,grfwvbrulbgkpgmragpkzbslu,gvl gbkgwzkw
mrfauopg.tgmragrlnulbrklajgBmugakso,g.tgzuvaklgkpgrbagvlhrubtgvl 
rfwkbuliu,g.urlxgslv.ougbkgabvl g.tgrbauop,gqvl uzagswgvl g kqlgbkgauuc
ksbgiklakovbrkla,gmkwua,gvl gpksl vbrkla,gvl gvorulgirzisfabvliua,gbk
qmrimgamugv muzuagvl gprhua;gvl gmkqgorxmbgkzgpvlbvabrigakunuzgrlnulbrkl
 uornuzagbmufgbkgmuz,gzuoruagfkzugqroorlxot,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgvaaszvliu,
swklgbmufgbmvlgswklgmuzauopjg.sbg‘bragqkl uzpsogbkgk.auznugmkqgbmugfkab
iklabvlbgvl gk.abrlvbugfvrlbvrluzagkpgbmragysabgvl giouvzgwuzasvarkl
kpgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgbmugaksogpvoogamkzb,gvl gmkqgquvcgbmurzgvzxsfulba
vzu,gqmulgbmutgxkgv.ksbgbkgwzknugrbg.tgmsfvlgzuvakl:g_Akflrvgaslbglkl
 kiulbra,gau gkwbvlbra:_g“Bmutgvzug zuvfa,glkbgkpgbmugbuvimuz,g.sb
qramuz,”gavtagklugkpgbmugvlirulbajg.tgqmrimgbuabrfkltgfvlgfvtgclkqgbmvb
mugkquagbmugbzsbmgmugmrfauopgprl agksbgbkgpkzbslugvl gviir ulb;garliu
bmvbgunulgbmul,gqmulgrbgragpvooulgrlbkgmragmvl ,gmugmvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmgbk
mko gvl gfvrlbvrlgrb,gvl gbmvbgmragzuvaklgmvaglkbgpkziugbkgfvcugsaugkp
rbjgVoogbmrlxagwzk siu g.tgkszgkqlgfu rbvbrklgvl gsl uzabvl rlx,gqmubmuz
bzsugkzgpvoau,gvzugas.yuibgbkgrliuzbrbs ugvl giklbzknuzatjg‘Bqvagpkz
bmugimvabraufulbgkpgkszgwzr u,gvl gpkzgbmugrlabzsibrklgkpgkszgfrauzv.ou
ikl rbrklgvl grlivwvirbt,gbmvbgXk gqzksxmbgbmugwuzwouhrbtgvl giklpsarkl
kpgbmugbkquzgkpg.v.uojgQmvbunuzgqugsl uzbvcugqrbmksbgmragvaarabvliu,
qmvbunuzgqugauugqrbmksbgbmugovfwgkpgmragxzviu,grag.sbgnvlrbtgvl gpkootj
Qugikzzswbgbmugnuztguaauliugkpgbzsbm,gqmrimgragslrpkzfgvl giklabvlb,
.tgkszgquvcluaa,gqmulgpkzbslugwsbagrbgrlbkgkszgwkaauaarkljgQmvbgikszau
akunuzgfvlgbvcuagkpgmrfauop,gXk gabroogwuzfrbagrbgbkgikfugbkgbmugavfu
iklpsarkl,gbmugrfvxugqmuzukpgmugakgornuotgzuwzuaulbagbkgsagrlgbmugysab
imvabraufulbgqmuzuqrbmgmugizsamu gLrfzk ’agwzuasfwbrkl,gvl gpzsabzvbu 
bmugnvrlgvbbufwbgkpgmragwzks gabzsibszu;g_Wuz vfgavwrulbrvfgavwrulbrsf,
ubgwzs ulbrvfgwzs ulbrsfgzuwzk.v.kj_g“Rgqroog uabzktgbmugqra kfgkpgbmu
qrau,gvl gqroog.zrlxgbkglkbmrlxgbmugsl uzabvl rlxgkpgbmugwzs ulbj”gBmu
 rnuzarbtgkpgr rkfagvl gbklxsua,gqrbmgqmrimgmug rabsz.u gbmragqkzc,
qmvbgvzugbmutgkbmuzgbmvlgbmragrlprlrbugvl gwuzwubsvogvobuzvbrklgvl 
 raikz vliugkpgkwrlrklagvl gzuvakla,gqmrimgviikfwvltgvl giklpksl gbmu
nvrlg.sro rlxgkpgmsfvlgqra kf,gvl gbkgnuztgxkk guppuibgbkk;gpkzgqmvb
qkso gmko gsa,grpgqugmv g.sbgbmugouvabgxzvrlgkpgclkqou xu?gBmragavrlb
mvagnuztgfsimgk.orxu gfu:g_Rwavgnuzrbvbragkiisobvbrkgvlbgmsfror-bvbra
uhuzirbvbrkguab,gvsbguovbrklragvbbzrbrk_g“Bmugnuztgikliuvofulbgkpgbmu
bzsbmgragurbmuzgvlguhuziraugkpgmsfrorbtgkzgvgesuoorlxgkpgwzuasfwbrklj”
gBkgqmvbgvgwrbimgkpgwzuasfwbrklgvl grlakouliug kgqugzvraugkszg.orl luaa
vl gpkoot!

.sbgbkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuibjgRbgqvagbzsotgnuztgxkk gzuvaklgbmvbgqu
amkso g.ug.umko ulgbkgXk gklot,gvl gbkgbmugpvnkszgkpgmragxzviu,gpkzgbmu
bzsbmgkpgakglk.ougvg.uorup,garliugpzkfgmragakoug.kslbtgqugzuiurnu
bmugpzsrbgkpgrffkzbvorbt,gqmrimgiklarabagrlgbmugulyktfulbgkpgubuzlvo
.uvbrbs ujgOubgsagrlxulsksaotgiklpuaagbmvbgXk gvoklugmvag ribvbu grb
bkgsa,gvl gpvrbm;gpkzg‘braglkgouaaklgkpglvbszugvl gkszgkqlgzuvaklj
Vl gqmkunuzgqroogrlesrzugrlbkgmragkqlg.urlxgvl gwkquz,g.kbmgqrbmrl
vl gqrbmksb,gqrbmksbgbmrag rnrlugwzrnrouxu;gqmkunuzgamvoogiklar uz
fvlgrfwvzbrvoot,gvl gqrbmksbgpovbbuzt,gqroogauugrlgmrfglkgupprivitgkz
pvisobtgbmvbgzuoramuagkpgvltgbmrlxg.sbg uvbmgvl guvzbmjgBmugfkzugqu
xrnugvl giklpuaagbkgkqugvl gzul uzgbkgXk ,gqug kgrbgqrbmgbmugxzuvbuz
ImzrabrvlrbtjgBmvbgqmrimgbmragAbkrigwmrokakwmuzgavtagmugmko agpzkfgbmu
pkzbsrbksagiklaulbgkpgbmugwkwsovzgnkriu;gmv grbglkbg.uulg.ubbuzgbmvbgmu
mv gmuo grbgpzkfgXk ?g_Isfg ugvlrfvzsfgkbufrbvbug raauzrfsa,glklgounu
fkfulbsfgvws glkagmv.ubgiklaulasagmkfrlsfgvsbgbrfulbrsfgrlpuzka,gvsb
ikoulbrsfjgSbkzgmâigws.oriâgwuzasvarkluj_g“Qmulgqug raikszaugkpgbmu
rffkzbvorbtgkpgaksoa,gbmugiklaulbgkpgfulgbmvbgurbmuzgpuvzgkzgv kzugbmu
rlpuzlvogwkquza,gragkpglkgafvoogv nvlbvxujgRgfvcugsaugkpgbmragws.ori
wuzasvarklj”gLkqgbmugquvcluaagkpgmsfvlgvzxsfulbagswklgbmragas.yuib
ragwvzbrisovzotgfvlrpuabu g.tgbmugpv.soksagirzisfabvliuagbmutgmvnu
aswuzv  u gvagiklauesuliuagkpgbmragkwrlrkl,gbkgprl gksbgkpgqmvb
ikl rbrklgbmragrffkzbvorbtgkpgkszagqvajgOubgsagkfrbgbmugAbkria,g(_saszvf
lk.ragovzxrslbszgbvlesvfgikzlrir.sa;g rsgfvlaszkagvrslbgvlrfka;gaufwuz,
luxvlbj_g“Bmutgxrnugsagvgoklxgorpu,gvagvoakgbmutg kgbkgizkqa;gbmutgavt
kszgaksogamvoogiklbrlsugoklx,g.sbgbmvbgrbgamvoogiklbrlsugvoqvtagbmut
 ult,”)gqmkgxrnugbkgaksoagvgorpugvpbuzgbmra,g.sbgprlrbujgBmugfkab
slrnuzavogvl gzuiurnu gpvlit,gvl gbmvbgiklbrlsuag kqlgbkgkszgbrfuagrl
nvzrksagwoviua,gragbmvbgkpgqmrimgbmutgfvcugWtbmvxkzvagbmugvsbmkz;glkb
bmvbgmugqvagbmugkzrxrlvogrlnulbkz,g.sbg.uivsaugrbgzuiurnu gvgxzuvbg uvo
kpgqurxmbgvl gzuwsbug.tgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgmragvwwzk.vbrkl:g“Bmvbgaksoa,
vbgbmurzg uwvzbszugksbgkpgsa,g r glkbmrlxg.sbgamrpbgpzkfgklug.k tgbk
vlkbmuz,gpzkfgvgorklgbkgvgmkzau,gpzkfgvgmkzaugbkgvgcrlx,giklbrlsvoot
bzvnuoorlxgvbgbmragzvbugpzkfgmv.rbvbrklgbkgmv.rbvbrkl;”gvl gmugmrfauop
avr gbmvbgmugzufuf.uzu gmugmv g.uulgÆbmv-or ua,garliugbmvbgUswmkz.sa,
vpbuzqvz agMuzfkbrfsa,gvl ,gprlvoot,gpzkfgWtzzmsagqvagwvaau grlbk
Wtbmvxkzva;gmvnrlxgvgfufkztgkpgmrfauopgkpgbqkgmsl zu gvl garhgtuvzajgVl 
akfugmvnugv  u gbmvbgbmuaugnuztgaksoagakfubrfuagfkslbgswgbkgmuvnul,gvl 
ikfug kqlgvxvrl:--


ggggggKgwvbuz,gvrfugvoresvagv gikosfgmrligrzugwsbvl sfguab
gggAs.orfuagvlrfva,grbuzsfesugv gbvz vgzunuzbr
gggIkzwkzv?gEsægosiragfrauzragbvfg rzvgiswr k?

gggggg“K,gpvbmuz,gragrbgbmulgbkg.ugikliurn’ 
gggBmvbgvltgkpgbmuaugawrzrba,gakgas.orfu,
gggAmkso gmuliugbkgbmugiuouabrvogzuxrklagiorf.,
gggVl gbmuliugzubszlgbkguvzbmgbkgzuvaasfu
gggBmurzgaosxxramg.k ruagzkbbrlxgrlgvgbkf.?
gggPkzgqzubimu gorpugqmuliug kuagasimgpkl luaagikfu?”


Kzrxulgfvcuagbmufgubuzlvootgbkgxkgvl gikfugpzkfgvg.ubbuzgbkgvgqkzau
uabvbujgBmugkwrlrklgbmvbgNvzzkgfulbrklagragbmvb,gvpbuzgpkszgmsl zu gvl 
pkzbtgtuvza’gzunkosbrkl,gbmutgamkso g.ugzuslrbu gbkgbmurzgprzabg.k rua;
Imztarwwsagmuo gbmvbgbmragqkso gmvwwulgvpbuzgvgiuzbvrlgawviugkpgbrfu
slclkqlgvl gslorfrbu jgWovbk,gqmkgwzkpuaauagbkgmvnuguf.zviu gbmrag.uorup
pzkfgWrl vzgvl gbmugvlirulbgwkuba,gbmvbgqugvzugbkgsl uzxkgrlprlrbu
nriraarbs uagkpgfsbvbrkl,gpkzgqmrimgbmugaksogragwzuwvzu ,gmvnrlxglurbmuz
wslramfulbglkzgzuqvz grlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo g.sbgqmvbgragbufwkzvo,gvagrba
orpugmuzugrag.sbgbufwkzvo,giklios uagbmvbgrbgmvagvgarlxsovzgclkqou xugkp
bmugvppvrzagkpgmuvnul,gkpgmuoo,gkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmzksxmgvoogqmrimgrbgmva
wvaau ,gzuwvaau ,gvl gfv ugabvtgrlgaunuzvognktvxua,gvzugfvbbuzagpkzgmuz
fufkztjgK.auznugmuzgwzkxzuaaguoauqmuzu:g“Bmugaksogbmvbgmvagornu gquoo
ragzuslrbu gbkgbmugabvzagbkgqmrimgrbgragvaarxlu ;gbmvbgqmrimgmvagornu 
roogzufknuagrlbkgvgqkfvl,gvl grpgrbg kglkbgbmuzugzupkzf,gragvxvrl
zufknu grlbkgvg.uvabgkpgikl rbrklgasrbv.ougbkgrbagnrirksagfvlluza,gvl 
amvoogauuglkgul gkpgrbagwslramfulbagbroogrbg.ugzubszlu gbkgrbaglvbszvo
iklabrbsbrkl,gvl gbmvbgrbgmva,g.tgbmugpkziugkpgzuvakl,gwszxu grbauop
pzkfgbmkaugxzkaa,gabswr ,gvl guoufulbvztgesvorbruagrbgqvagwkoosbu 
qrbmj”g.sbgRgqrooglkbgkfrbgbmugk.yuibrklgbmugUwriszuvlagfvcugvxvrlab
bmragbzvlafrxzvbrklgpzkfgklug.k tgbkgvlkbmuz;g‘bragvgwouvavlbgklu;gbmut
vacgqmvbguhwu rulbgqkso g.ugpksl gksbgrpgbmuglsf.uzgkpgbmug trlxgamkso 
imvliugbkg.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmkaugqmkgvzugikfrlxgrlbkgbmugqkzo j
Pkzgbmugaksoa,gbszlu gksbgkpgbmurzgko gmv.rbvbrkl,gqkso gaisppougvl 
izkq gqmrimgamkso gprzabgxubgwkaauaarklgkpgbmurzgluqgok xrlx;gvl gbmut
pszbmuzg ufvl gmkqgbmutgamvoogwvaagvqvtgbmurzgbrfu,gqmroabgqvrbrlx
broogluqgesvzbuzagvzugfv ugzuv tgpkzgbmuf?gKz,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,grpgfkzu
vlrfvoagamkso g.ug.kzlgbmvlg ru,gbmug.k t,gbmutgavt,gqkso g.ug.sbgrlgvl
roogikl rbrklgqmroabgqvrbrlxgpkzgvgaksogbkg.ugrlpsau grlbkgrb;gvl grb
qkso gpvoogksbgbmvbgakfug.k ruagqkso g rug.upkzugbmutgmv g.uulgvornuj


gggggg ulresugikfzv.rvgv gNuluzra,gwvzbsaesugpuzvzsf
gggUaaugvlrfvagwzæabk,g uzr risosfguaaugnr ubsz;
gggUbgawuibvzugrffkzbvouagfkzbvorvgfuf.zv
gggRllsfuzkglsfézk,giuzbvzuesugwzæwzkwuzvlbuz
gggRlbuzgau,gesægwzrfvgwkbraarfveægrlarlsubuzj

gggggg“V.asz gbkgbmrlcgbmvbgqmroabgqro g.uvabag.uxub,
gggKzg.uvzgbmurzgtkslx,gvgbmksavl gaksoag kgqvrb,
gggUhwuibgbmugpvoorlxg.k t,gprxmbgvl gabzrnu
gggQmrimgprzabgamvoogulbuzgrlgvl gfvcugrbgornuj”


Kbmuzagmvnugvzzuabu gbmugaksogrlgbmug.k tgkpgbmug uiuvau ,gqrbmgrbgbk
vlrfvbugauzwulba,gqkzfa,gvl gkbmuzg.uvaba,gqmrimgvzugavr gbkg.ug.zu 
ksbgkpgbmugikzzswbrklgkpgkszgfuf.uza,gvl gunulgksbgkpgkszgvamua;gkbmuza
 rnr ugbmufgrlbkgbqkgwvzba,gbmugklugfkzbvo,gbmugkbmuzgrffkzbvo;gkbmuza
fvcugrbgikzwkzuvo,gvl glunuzbmuouaagrffkzbvojgAkfugfvcugrbgrffkzbvo,
qrbmksb

aulaugkzgclkqou xujgBmuzugvzugkbmuza,gunulgvfklxgkszauonua,gqmkgmvnu
.uorunu gbmvbg unroagquzugfv ugkpgbmugaksoagkpgbmug vflu ;gvagWosbvzim
bmrlcagbmvbgxk agquzugfv ugkpgbmkaugbmvbgquzugavnu ;gpkzgbmuzugvzugpuq
bmrlxagqmrimgbmvbgvsbmkzgragakgwkarbrnugrlgvagmugragrlgbmra;gfvrlbvrlrlx
uoauqmuzugvg ks.bpsogvl gvf.rxsksagqvtgkpguhwzuaarkljg“Qugvzugbko ,”
gavtagmu,g“vl gabuv pvabotgamkso g.uorunu,gbmvbgbmugaksoagkpgnrzbsksa
ful,g.kbmgviikz rlxgbkglvbszugvl gbmug rnrlugysabriu,g.uikfugavrlba,gvl 
pzkfgavrlbag ufrxk a,gvl gpzkfg ufrxk a,gvpbuzgbmutgvzugwuzpuibot,gvagrl
avizrpriuagkpgwszxvbrkl,giouvlau gvl gwszrpru ,g.urlxg uornuzu gpzkfgvoo
wvaar.rorbtgvl gvoogfkzbvorbt,gbmutg.uikfu,glkbg.tgvltgirnrog uizuu,g.sb
rlgzuvogbzsbm,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgvoogwzk.v.rorbtgkpgzuvakl,gulbrzugvl 
wuzpuibgxk a,grlgzuiurnrlxgvgfkabgmvwwtgvl gxokzrksagul j”g.sbgqmk
 uarzuagbkgauugmrf--mrf,gqmkgragtubgbmugfkabgak.uzgvl gfk uzvbugkpgbmu
qmkougxvlxgkpgwmrokakwmuza,govtgv.ksbgmrfgqrbmgxzuvbuzg.ko luaa,gvl 
zuovbugmragfrzviouagswklgbmragas.yuib,gRgzupuzgmrfgbkgmragbzuvbraug_kp
bmugFkkl,_gvl g_kpgbmug ufklgkpgAkizvbua_,gqmuzugmugfvt,gvagunr ulbot
vagrlgvltgkbmuzgwoviugqmvbunuz,gavbraptgmrfauopgbmvbgbmugftabuzruagkp
wmrokakwmtgmvnugfvltgabzvlxugbmrlxagrlgikffklgqrbmgbmkaugkpgwkubzt;
msfvlgsl uzabvl rlxgokarlxgrbauopgrlgvbbufwbrlxgbkgaksl gvl gauvzimgvoo
bmrlxagbkgbmug.kbbkf;gunulgvagqu,gbrzu gvl gqkzlgksbgqrbmgvgoklxgikszau
kpgorpu,gzubszlgbkgrlpvlitgvl g kbvxujgAuugmuzugbmugprlugvl giuzbvrl
rlabzsibrklagqmrimgquguhbzvibgpzkfgmsfvlgclkqou xugikliuzlrlxgbmugaksoj

Lurbmuzgragbmuzugouaagbufuzrbtgrlgqmvbgbmutgbuvimgsagbksimrlxgksz
ikzwkzvogwvzbajgOubgsagimkkaugksbgklugkzgbqkguhvfwoua;gpkzgkbmuzqraugqu
amkso gokaugkszauonuagrlgbmragnvabgvl gbzks.ou gkiuvlgkpgfu rivoguzzkzaj
Oubgsagprzabgclkqgqmubmuz,gvbgouvab,gbmutgvxzuugv.ksbgbmugfvbbuzgqmuzukp
fulgwzk siugklugvlkbmuz;gpkzgvagbkgbmurzgprzabgwzk sibrklgrbgra
lkgqkl uzgrp,grlgvgbmrlxgakgmrxmgvl gakgoklxgarliugwvab,gmsfvl
sl uzabvl rlxgprl agrbauopgwsddou gvl gwuzwouhu jgVzimuovsa,gbmu
wmtarirvl,gqmkaug rairwougvl gpvnkszrbugAkizvbuagqva,gviikz rlxgbk
Vzrabkhulsa,gavr gbmvbg.kbmgfulgvl g.uvabagquzugfv ugkpgvgovibuksa
aorfu,guhwzuaau g.tgbmugmuvbgkpgbmuguvzbm;gWtbmvxkzvagavtagbmvbgksz
auu gragbmugpkvfgkzgizuvfgkpgkszg.ubbuzg.okk ;gWovbk,gbmvbgrbgragbmu
 rabroovbrklgkpgbmugfvzzkqgkpgbmug.vic.klu;gzvrarlxgmragvzxsfulbgpzkf
bmra,gbmvbgbmvbgwvzbgragprzabgaular.ougkpg.urlxgquvztgkpgbmugqkzc;
Voifukl,gbmvbgrbgragwvzbgkpgbmugas.abvliugkpgbmug.zvrl,gvl gbmvbgrb
ragak,gavtagmu,gragwzknu g.tgbmugquvcluaagkpgbmugutuagrlgbmkaugqmk
vzugrffk uzvbugrlgbmvbguhuzirau;g ufkizrbsa,gbmvbgrbgragvgas.abvliu
uhbzvibu gpzkfgbmugqmkougfvaagkpgbmug.k t;gUwriszsa,gvlguhbzvibgpzkf
aksogvl g.k t;gVzrabkbou,gvlguhizufulbg zvqlgpzkfgbmugvorfulbgkpgbmu
.okk ,gbmugovabgqmrimgrag rppsau gknuzgkszgfuf.uza;gkbmuza,gbmvbgrbgra
vg.okk giklikibu gvl g rxuabu g.tgbmugmuvbgkpgbmugxulrbvoa,gqmrimgbmut
ys xu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgrlguhiuaarnugul uvnkszagvgfvlgnkr agwszug.okk ;
qmuzurlgbmuzugauufagbkg.ugfkzugorcuormkk ,gikso gvgfvlguhbzvibgvlt
vwwuvzvliugpzkfgakgrlprlrbugvgiklpsarkljgLkq,gbkg.zrlxgbmragauu gbkg k
rbagqkzc,gmkqgfvltgiklbzvztgkwrlrklag kgbmutgaubgklgpkkb?gVzrabkbou
vl g ufkizrbsagvzugkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgqkfulgmvnuglkgawuzf,gvl gbmvbg‘bra
lkbmrlxg.sbgvgaquvbgbmvbgbmutg rabrogrlgbmugmuvbgkpgwouvaszugvl 
fkbrkl,gvl gbmvbgiklbzr.sbuaglkbmrlxgvbgvoogbkgxuluzvbrkljgXvoul,gkl
bmugiklbzvzt,gvl gmragpkookquza,g.uorunugbmvbgqrbmksbgbmugikliszzuliu
kpgauu agbmuzugivlg.uglkgxuluzvbrkljgMuzugvzugbmugwmtarirvla,gbmu
wmrokakwmuza,gbmugovqtuza,gvl g rnrlua,g.tgbmuguvzagqrbmgkszgqrnuagv.ksb
bmug rawsbu,g“Pkzgqmvbgbuzfgqkfulgivzztgbmurzgpzsrb?”gvl gR,gpkzgft
wvzb,g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgftauop,gabricgqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgfvrlbvrlgvgqkfvl
xkuaguounulgfklbmagqrbmgimro jgBmugqkzo grag.srobgswklgbmraguhwuzruliu;
bmuzugraglkgakgikffklwoviugvgqkfvlgbmvbgivllkbgxrnugmuzgys xfulbgrlgvoo
bmuaugiklbzknuzarua;gvl gtubgqugivllkbgvxzuuj

Muzugragulksxmgbkgnuzrptgbmvbgfvlgraglkg.ubbuzgrlabzsibu grlgbmu
clkqou xugkpgmrfauop,grlgmragikzwkzvogbmvlgrlgmragawrzrbsvogwvzbgQugmvnu
wzkwkau gmrfauopgbkgmrfauop,gvl gmragzuvaklgbkgmragzuvakl,gbkgauugqmvb
amugikso gavtjgRgbmrlcgRgmvnugaspprirulbotg ufklabzvbu gmkqgorbbou
amugsl uzabvl agmuzauopgrlgmuzauop;gvl gqmkgsl uzabvl aglkbgmrfauopgrl
mrfauop,grlgqmvbgivlgmu?g_Esvargnuzkgfulaszvfgsoorsagzurgwkaarbgvxuzu,
esrgasrgluairvbj_g“Vagrpgmugikso gsl uzabvl gbmugfuvaszugkpgvltgkbmuz
bmrlx,gbmvbgclkqaglkbgmragkqlj”gRlguvzluab,gWzkbvxkzvagbko gsagvgwzubbt
povfgrlgfvcrlxgfvlgbmugfuvaszugkpgvoogbmrlxa,gbmvbglunuzgcluqgakgfsimgva
mragkql;gvl grpgrbg.uglkbgmu,gmrag rxlrbtgqrooglkbgwuzfrbgbmvbgvlt
kbmuzgizuvbszugamkso gmvnugbmragv nvlbvxu;glkqgmug.urlxgakgiklbzvzt
rlgmrfauop,gvl gklugys xfulbgakgrliuaavlbotgas.nuzbrlxgvlkbmuz,gbmra
pvnkszv.ougwzkwkarbrklgqvag.sbgvgfkicuzt,gqmrimgrl siu gsagluiuaavzrot
bkgiklios ugbmuglsoorbtgkpgbmugikfwvaagvl gbmugikfwvaauzjgQmulgBmvoua
zuwsbuagbmugclkqou xugkpgfvlgnuztg rpprisobgpkzgfvlgbkgikfwzumul ,gmu
vbgbmugavfugbrfugxrnuagmrfgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgvoogkbmuzgclkqou xugra
rfwkaar.ouj

Tks,*gpkzgqmkfgRgmvnugbvculgbmugwvrla,giklbzvztgbkgftgisabkf,gbkgqzrbu
akgoklxgvg raikszau,gqrooglkbgzupsaugbkgaswwkzbgtkszgAu.kl g.tgbmu
kz rlvztgpkzfagkpgvzxsrlx,gqmuzuqrbmgtksgvzugunuztg vtgrlabzsibu ,gvl 
rlgbmragqrooguhuziraug.kbmgtkszgqrbgvl gouvzlrlx;gpkzgbmragovabgpulirlx
bzricgraglunuzgbkg.ugfv ugsaugkpg.sbgvagvlguhbzufugzufu t;g‘bragv
 uawuzvbugbmzsab,gqmuzurlgtksgvzugbkgesrbgtkszgkqlgvzfagbkgfvcugtksz
v nuzavztgv.vl klgmra;gvl gvgauizubgaourxmb,gqmrimgfsabg.ugnuztgzvzuot,
vl gbmulgnuztgzuauznu ot,gwsbgrlgwzvibriujg‘Bragxzuvbgbufuzrbtgbkgokau
tkszauopgbmvbgtksgfvtg uabzktgvlkbmuz;gtksgfsabglkbg rugbkg.ugzunulxu ,
vagXk.zrvag r ;gpkz,g.urlxgiokauotgxzvwwou grlgikf.vbgqrbmgvgokz gkp
Wuzarv,g vzrsagikfrlxgrlgaqkz grlgmvl ,gvl gpuvzrlxgbkgabzrcugouabgmu
amkso gcroogXk.zrva,gmugivoou gksbgbkgmrfg.ko otgbkgpvoogkl,


ggg*gBmugvsbmkz,gvagqugmvnugvozuv tgfulbrklu ,gragv  zuaarlx
gggggFvzxvzubg ugNvokraj


bmksxmgmugamkso gzslgbmufg.kbmgbmzksxmgvbgkliujgRgmvnugclkqlg uawuzvbu
quvwkla,gvl gikl rbrklagkpgarlxougikf.vb,gvl gqmuzurlgmugbmvbgkppuzu 
bmufgwsbgmrfauopgvl gmragv nuzavztgswklgbuzfagkpgrlunrbv.oug uvbmgbk
bmufg.kbm,giulaszu gpkzgslysabjgBmugWkzbsxsuau,grlgbmugRl rvlgAuv,gbkkc
iuzbvrlgBszcagwzrakluza,gqmk,grfwvbrulbgkpgbmurzgivwbrnrbt,gzuakonu ,
vl grbgasiiuu u ,g.tgabzrcrlxgbmuglvroagkpgbmugamrwgklugvxvrlabgvlkbmuz,
vl gfvcrlxgvgawvzcgbkgpvoogrlbkgbmug.vzzuoagkpgwkq uzgbmvbgquzugaubgrl
bmugwoviugqmuzugbmutgquzugxsvz u ,gbkg.okqgswgvl gzu siugbmufauonua,
bmurzgfvabuza,gvl gbmugnuaauogbkgvamuajgQugmuzugbksimgbmugksb-wovbu
vl gsbfkabgorfrbagkpgairuliua,gqmuzurlgbmuguhbzufrbtgragnrirksa,gva
rlgnrzbsujgCuuwgtkszauonuagrlgbmugikffklgzkv ;grbgraglkbgxkk gbkg.ugak
as.bougvl gisllrlxjgZufuf.uzgbmugBsaivlgwzknuz.:--


gggImrgbzkwwkga’vaakbbrxorv,gargaivnuddvj

ggg“Qmkgfvcuagmrfauopgbkkgqrau,g.uikfuagvgpkkoj”


Rgv nraugtksgbmvb,grlgvoogtkszgkwrlrklagvl g raikszaua,gvagquoogva
rlgtkszgfvlluzagvl gvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa,gtksgcuuwgtkszauopgfk uzvbugvl 
bufwuzvbu,gvl gvnkr glknuobt;gRgvfgvlguluftgbkgvooguhbzvnvxvlbgqvtaj
Tks,gqmkg.tgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgtkszgxzvl usz,gvl gtubgfkzug.tgbmu
v nvlbvxuagqmrimgbmkaugesvorbruagxrnugtksgbmvbgvzugfkzugtkszgkql,gfvt
qrbmgbmugbqrlcougkpgvlgutugikffvl gqmkfgtksgwouvau,gksxmbgbkgmvnugxrnul
bmragimvzxugbkgakfugklugqmkgfv ugwzkpuaarklgkpgoubbuza,gqmkgfrxmbgvpbuz
vg.ubbuzgfvlluzgmvnugwzknu gvl groosabzvbu gbmuaugbmrlxagbkgtksjg.sb
muzugragvagfsimgvagtksgqroogabvl grlgluu gkpj

Uwriszsagavr gkpgbmugovqa,g“Bmvbgbmugqkzabgquzugakgluiuaavztgpkzgsagbmvb
qrbmksbgbmufgfulgqkso g unkszgklugvlkbmuzj”gVl gWovbkgvpprzfa,g“Bmvb
qrbmksbgovqagqugamkso gornugorcug.uvabaj”gKszgqrbgragvgqvl uzrlx,
 vlxuzksa,gvl gbufuzvzrksagsbularo;grbgragmvz gbkgikswougvltgkz uzgkz
fuvaszugbkgrb;grlgbmkaugkpgkszgkqlgbrfu,gqmkgvzugul su gqrbmgvltgzvzu
uhiuoouliugv.knugkbmuza,gkzgvltguhbzvkz rlvztgnrnvirbtgkpgsl uzabvl rlx,
qugauugbmufgvofkabgvoogovamgksbgrlbkgoriulbrksaluaagkpgkwrlrklagvl 
fvlluza;gvl g‘bragvofkabgvgfrzviougbkgprl gklugbufwuzvbugvl gakirv.ouj
‘Bragvoogbmugzuvaklgrlgbmugqkzo gbkgorfrbgmsfvlgqrbgqrbmrlgbmugabzribuab
orfrbagrfvxrlv.ou;grlgabs t,gvagrlgvoogbmugzuab,gqugksxmbgbkgmvnu
rbagabuwagvl gv nvliuaglsf.uzu gvl gprhu ,gvl gbmvbgbmugorfrbagkpgrba
rlesrarbrklg.ug.ksl u g.tgvzbjgRbgragisz.u gvl gpubbuzu g.tgzuorxrkla,
ovqa,gisabkfa,gairuliua,gwzuiuwba,gfkzbvogvl grffkzbvogwulvobruajgVl 
tubgqugauugbmvbgrbguaivwuagpzkfgvoogbmuaug.kl ag.tgrbagnkos.rorbtgvl 
 raakosbrkl;g*bragvgnvrlg.k tgqmrimgmvaglkbmrlxgbkgovtgmko gklgkzgbk
aurdu;gvgnvzrksagvl g rppkzfg.k t,grlivwv.ougkpg.urlxgurbmuzg.ksl 
kzgmuo jgRlguvzluab,gbmuzugvzugpuqgaksoagakgzuxsovz,gprzf,gvl gquoo
 uaiul u ,gvagvzugbkg.ugbzsabu gqrbmgbmurzgkqlgikl sib,gvl gbmvbgivl
qrbmgfk uzvbrkl,gvl gqrbmksbgbufuzrbt,gavrogrlgbmugor.uzbtgkpgbmurzgkql
ys xfulba,g.utkl gbmugikffklgvl gzuiurnu gkwrlrkla;g*bragfkzuguhwu rulb
bkgwsbgbmufgsl uzgwswrovxujgQrbgragvg vlxuzksagquvwkl,gunulgbkgbmu
wkaauaakz,grpgmugclkqaglkbgmkqgbkgsaugrbg raizuubot;gvl gbmuzugraglkbgv
.uvabgbkgqmkfgvgmuv .kvz gragfkzugysabotgbkg.ugxrnul,gbkgcuuwgmragokkca
 kqlgvl g.upkzugmragpuub,gvl gbkgmrl uzgmrfgpzkfgqvl uzrlxgmuzugvl 
bmuzugksbgkpgbmugbzvicagqmrimgisabkfgvl gbmugovqagmvnugovr g.upkzugmrfj
Vl gbmuzupkzugrbgqroog.ug.ubbuzgpkzgtksgbkgcuuwgtkszauopgrlgbmug.uvbul
wvbm,goubgrbg.ugqmvbgrbgqroo,gbmvlgbkgpotgksbgvbgvgnulbszugqrbmgbmra
sl.zr ou gor.uzbtjg.sbgrpgvltgkpgbmuaugluqg kibkzagqroogwzubul gbkg.u
rlxulrksagrlgtkszgwzuauliu,gvbgbmuguhwulaug.kbmgkpgtkszgaksogvl gmra
kql,gbkgvnkr gbmrag vlxuzksagwovxsu,gqmrimgragunuztg vtgovr grlgtksz
qvtgbkgrlpuibgtks,gbmragwzuauznvbrnu,grlgbmuguhbzufuabgluiuaarbt,
qroogwzunulbgbmug vlxuzgvl gmrl uzgbmugiklbvxrklgkpgbmragwkraklgpzkf
kppul rlxgurbmuzgtksgkzgtkszgikfwvltj

Bmugor.uzbt,gbmul,gvl gpzkorigpkzqvz luaagkpgbmuaugvlirulbgqrbagwzk siu 
rlgwmrokakwmtgvl gmsfvlgairuliuagaunuzvogauibagkpg rppuzulbgkwrlrkla,
unuztgklugsl uzbvcrlxgbkgys xugvl gfvcugimkriugkpgqmvbgmugqkso gabric
bkgvl gfvrlbvrljg.sbglkqgbmvbgfulgxkgvoogklugqvt,g_Esrgiuzbragesr.sa vf
 uabrlvbraesugaulbulbrragv  ribrgubgiklauizvbrgaslb,gsbgubrvf,gesæglkl
wzk.vlb,gikxvlbszg upul uzu,_g“Qmkgvzugakgbru gvl gk.orxu gbkgiuzbvrl
kwrlrklagbmvbgbmutgvzug.ksl gbkg upul gunulgbmkaugbmutg kglkbgvwwzknu,”
gvl gbmvbgqugzuiurnugbmugvzbag.tgirnrogvsbmkzrbtgvl g uizuu,gakgbmvbgbmu
aimkkoagmvnug.sbgklugwvbbuzl,gvl gvgorcugirzisfaizr.u grlabrbsbrklgvl 
 rairworlu,gquglkgfkzugbvcuglkbriugqmvbgbmugikrlgqurxma,gvl gragzuvoot
qkzbm,g.sbgunuztgklugzuiurnuagrbgviikz rlxgbkgbmuguabrfvbugbmvbgikffkl
vwwzk.vbrklgvl gsaugwsbagswklgrb;gbmugvooktgraglkbgesuabrklu ,g.sbgmkq
fsimgrbgragiszzulbgpkzjgRlgorcugfvlluzgvoogbmrlxagwvaa;gqugbvcu
wmtarigvagqug kgxukfubzt;gvl gbzricagkpgmkisa-wkisa,gulimvlbfulba,
vl goknu-awuooa,gbmugikzzuawkl uliugkpgbmugaksoagkpgbmug uv ,
wzkxlkabrivbrkla,g kfrprivbrkla,gvl gunulgbmragzr risoksagwszasrbgkpgbmu
wmrokakwmuza’gabklu,gvoogbmrlxagwvaagpkzgiszzulbgwvt,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluz
kpgaizswougkzgiklbzv ribrkljgQugluu gbkgclkqglkgfkzug.sbgbmvbgFvza’
mksaugragrlgbmugfr  ougkpgbmugbzrvlxougkpgbmugmvl ,gbmvbgkpgNulsagrl
bmugbmsf.,gvl gbmvbgkpgFuzisztgrlgbmugorbbougprlxuz;gbmvbgqmulgbmu
bv.ou-orlugisbagbmugbs.uziougkpgbmugpkzuprlxuzg‘bragvgarxlgkpgizsuobt,
bmvbgqmulgrbgpvooagamkzbgkpgbmugfr  ougprlxuz,gvl gbmvbgbmuglvbszvo
fu rvl-orlugfvcuagvlgvlxougqrbmgbmugnrbvogrlgbmugavfugar u,g‘bragvgarxl
kpgvgfrauzv.oug uvbm;gbmvbgrpgrlgvgqkfvlgbmuglvbszvogorlug.ugkwul,gvl 
 kuaglkbgiokaugbmugvlxougqrbmgbmugnrbvo,gbmrag ulkbuagbmvbgamugamvooglkb
.ugnuztgimvabujgRgouvnugtksgbkgys xugqmubmuzgvgfvlgesvorpru gqrbmgasim
clkqou xugfvtglkbgwvaagqrbmgzuwsbvbrklgvl guabuufgrlgvoogikfwvlruaj

Bmukwmzvabsagavr gbmvbgmsfvlgclkqou xu,gxsr u g.tgbmugaulaua,gfrxmb
ys xugkpgbmugivsauagkpgbmrlxagbkgvgiuzbvrlg uxzuu;g.sbgbmvbg.urlx
vzzrnu gbkgprzabgvl guhbzufugivsaua,grbgfsabgabkwgamkzbgvl gzubrzu,g.t
zuvaklgurbmuzgkpgrbagkqlgrlprzfrbtgkzgbmug rpprisobtgkpgbmrlxajg‘Bragv
fk uzvbugvl gxulbougkwrlrkl,gbmvbgkszgkqlgsl uzabvl rlxagfvtgikl sib
sagbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgakfugbmrlxa,gvl gbmvbgrbgmvagiuzbvrlgfuvaszua
kpgwkquz,g.utkl gqmrimg‘bragbufuzrbtgbkgufwoktgrb;gbmragkwrlrklgra
wovsar.ou,gvl grlbzk siu g.tgfulgkpgquoogikfwkau gfrl a,g.sbg‘bragmvz 
bkgorfrbgkszgqrb,gqmrimgragiszrksagvl gxzuu t,gvl gqrooglkgfkzugabkw
vbgvgbmksavl gbmvlgvbgprpbtgwviua;gmvnrlxguhwuzrfulbvootgpksl gbmvb,
qmuzurlgklugmvagpvrou ,gbmugkbmuzgmvagmrb,gvl gbmvbgqmvbgqvagslclkqlgbk
klugvxu,gbmugvxugpkookqrlxgmvaguhwovrlu ;gvl gbmvbgvzbagvl gairuliuagvzu
lkbgivabgrlgvgfkso ,g.sbgvzugpkzfu gvl gwuzpuibu g.tg uxzuua,g.tgkpbul
mvl orlxgvl gwkoramrlx,gvag.uvzagouraszuotgoricgbmurzgis.agrlbkgpkzf;
qmvbgftgpkziugivllkbg raiknuz,gRg kglkbgtubg uarabgbkgaksl gvl gbkgbzt;
vl g.tgmvl orlxgvl gcluv rlxgbmragluqgfvbbuzgknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrl,g.t
bszlrlxgvl gmuvbrlxgrb,gRgovtgkwulgbkgmrfgbmvbgamvoogasiiuu gfu,gvgcrl 
kpgpvirorbtgbkgulyktgrbgfkzugvbgmraguvau,gvl gfvcugrbgfkzugfvlrv.ougvl 
aswwougpkzgmrf,


ggggggggSbgmtfubbrvgakou
gggggIuzvgzufkoouairb,gbzvibvbvesugwkoogriugfsobva
gggggNuzbrbszgrlgpvirua,grwakesugprbgsbroragsas;

gggggggg“Vagqvhg kbmgakpbuzgrlgbmugaslg.uikfu,
gggggVl ,gbufwuzu g‘bqrhbgbmugprlxuzgvl gbmugbmsf.,
gggggQroognvzrklagpkzfa,gvl gaunuzvogamvwuagv frb,
gggggBroogpkzgbmugwzuaulbgsaug‘bragzul uzu gprb;”


vagfsimgqroogbmugauikl g kgpkzgbmugbmrz ;gqmrimgragbmugivsaugbmvb
bmug rpprisobtgksxmbglkbgbkgfvcugfug uawvrz,gvl gftgkqlgrlivwvirbtgva
orbbou;gpkzg‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgftgkqlj

Fvlgragvagivwv.ougkpgvoogbmrlxagvagkpgakfu;gvl grpgmugiklpuaaua,gva
Bmukwmzvabsagavta,gbmugrxlkzvliugkpgprzabgivsaua,goubgmrfgvbgkliu
aszzul uzgvoogbmugzuabgkpgmragclkqou xu;grpgmugrag upuibrnugrl
pksl vbrkl,gmragzuvaklgragvxzksl ;g rawsbvbrklgvl grlesrztgmvnuglkgkbmuz
vrfglkzgabkwg.sbgwzrlirwoua;grpgbmragvrfg kglkbgabkwgmragivzuuz,gmu
zslagrlbkgvlgrlprlrbugrzzuakosbrkljg_Lklgwkbuabgvors gvorkgfvxragfrlsanu
ikfwzumul r,gesklrvfgkflrsfgzuzsfgslvguabg uyrlrbrkgikfwzumul ul r:_

“Klugbmrlxgivlglkgfkzugkzgouaag.ugikfwzumul u gbmvlgvlkbmuz,g.uivsau
bmug uprlrbrklgkpgikfwzumul rlxgvoogbmrlxagragbmugavfuj”gLkqg‘bragnuzt
orcuotgbmvb,grpgbmugaksogcluqgvltgbmrlx,grbgqkso grlgbmugprzabgwoviu
clkqgrbauop;gvl grpgrbgcluqgvltgbmrlxgksbgkpgrbauop,grbgqkso g.ugrbagkql
.k tgvl givau,g.upkzugvltgbmrlxguoaujgRpgqugauugbmugxk agkpgwmtarigbk
bmragnuztg vtg u.vbrlxgv.ksbgkszgvlvbkft,


gggFsoir.uzgrlgBzkyvf,gwzkgBzkyâgabv.vbgVwkook;

ggg“Nsoivlgvxvrlab,gpkzgBzktgVwkookgabkk ;”


qmulgvzugqugbkguhwuibgbmvbgbmutgqroog.ugvxzuu ?gQugvzugluvzuzglurxm.ksza
bkgkszauonuagbmvlgqmrbuluaagbkgalkq,gkzgqurxmbgbkgabkluajgRpgfvlg kglkb
clkqgmrfauop,gmkqgamkso gmugclkqgmragpkziugvl gpslibrkla?gRbgraglkb,
wuzmvwa,gbmvbgqugmvnuglkbgakfugzuvogclkqou xugrlgsa;g.sbg‘brag.tgimvliu;
pkzvafsimgvaguzzkzagvzugzuiurnu grlbkgkszgaksog.tgbmugavfugqvt,gvpbuz
bmugavfugfvlluz,gvl g.tgbmugavfugikl sib,grbgmvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbk
 rabrlxsramgbmuf,glkzgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgimkkaugbmugbzsbmgpzkfgpvoaumkk j

BmugViv ufriagv frbbu gvgiuzbvrlgwvzbrvorbtgkpgys xfulb,gvl gbmksxmbgrb
bkkgizs ugbkgavtgbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgfkzugorcuotgbkgavtgbmvbgalkqgqvagqmrbu
bmvlg.ovic;gvl gbmvbgqugquzuglkgfkzugvaaszu gkpgbmugfkbrklgkpgvgabklu,
bmzkqlg.tgbmugmvl ,gbmvlgkpgbmvbgkpgbmugurxmbmgawmuzujgVl gbkgvnkr 
bmrag rpprisobtgvl gabzvlxuluaa,gbmvbgivlgrlgbzsbmgmvz otgok xugrlgksz
rfvxrlvbrkl,gbmksxmgbmutgiklios u gbmvbgqugquzugrlglkgakzbgivwv.ougkp
clkqou xu,gvl gbmvbgbzsbmgragulxsopu grlgakgwzkpksl gvlgv.taagvagraglkb
bkg.ugwulubzvbu g.tgmsfvlgarxmb;gtubgbmutgviclkqou xu gakfugbmrlxagbkg.u
fkzugorcuotgbmvlgkbmuza,gvl gzuiurnu grlbkgbmurzgys xfulbgbmragpvisobt,
bmvbgbmutgmv gvgwkquzgbkgrliorlugbkgklugvwwuvzvliugfkzugbmvlgvlkbmuz,
bmutgvookqu gmrfgbmragwzkwularkl,grlbuz ribrlxgvoogzuakosbrkljgBmu
Wtzzmklrvlgkwrlrklgragfkzug.ko ,gvl gvoakgakfuqmvbgfkzugorcuot;gpkzgbmra
viv ufrigrliorlvbrkl,gvl gbmragwzkwularklgbkgklugwzkwkarbrklgzvbmuzgbmvl
vlkbmuz,gqmvbgragrbgkbmuzgbmvlgvgzuikxlrbrklgkpgakfugfkzugvwwvzulb
bzsbmgrlgbmragbmvlgrlgbmvb?gRpgkszgsl uzabvl rlxg.ugivwv.ougkpgbmugpkzf,
orluvfulba,gwkzb,gvl gpviugkpgbzsbm,grbgfrxmbgvagquoogauugrbgulbrzugva
.tgmvonua,gawzrlxrlxgvl grfwuzpuibgBmragvwwuvzvliugkpgorcuormkk ,
qmrimgfvcuagbmufgzvbmuzgbvcugbmugoupbgmvl gbmvlgbmugzrxmb,gvsxfulba
rb;gfsobrwotgbmragksliugkpgnuzrarfrorbs ugbmvbgbszlagbmugaivouagbk
vgmsl zu ,gbkgvgbmksavl ,gksliua;grbgqroogmvwwulgrlgbmugul gbmvbgbmu
.vovliugqroogrbauopgul gbmugiklbzknuzat,gvl g ubuzfrlugklugimkriu,gklu
ulbrzugbzsbmjg.sbgqmtg kgbmutgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkgrliorlugbkgvl g.u
aqvtu g.tgnuzrarfrorbs u,grpgbmutgclkqglkbgbmugbzsbm?gMkqgamkso gbmut
clkqgbmugarfrorbs ugkpgbmvbgqmuzukpgbmutg kglkbgclkqgbmuguaauliu?gUrbmuz
qugivlgv.akosbuotgys xu,gkzgv.akosbuotgqugivllkbgRpgkszgrlbuoouibsvogvl 
aular.ougpvisobruagvzugqrbmksbgpkkbgkzgpksl vbrkl,grpgbmutgklotgwsoo
vl g zrnu,g‘bragbkglkgwszwkaugbmvbgqugasppuzgkszgys xfulbagbkg.ugivzzru 
vqvtgqrbmgvltgwvzbgkpgbmurzgkwuzvbrkl,gqmvbgvwwuvzvliugakunuzgbmut
fvtgauufgbkgwzuaulbgsa;gvl gbmugaszuabgvl gfkabgmvwwtgauvbgkpgksz
sl uzabvl rlxgqkso g.ugbmvbgqmuzugrbgcuwbgrbauopgbufwuzvbu,gswzrxmb,gvl 
rlpouhr.ou,gqrbmksbgbkbbuzrlx,gkzgqrbmksbgvxrbvbrkl:g_Rlbuzgnrav,gnuzv
vsbgpvoav,gv gvlrfrgvaaulasf,glrmrogrlbuzuab:_g“Vfklxabgbmrlxagbmvb
auuf,gqmubmuzgbzsugkzgpvoau,grbgarxlrpruaglkbmrlxgbkgbmugvaaulbgkpgbmu
frl j”gBmvbgbmrlxag kglkbgok xugrlgsagrlgbmurzgpkzfgvl guaauliu,gvl 
 kglkbgbmuzugfvcugbmurzgulbztg.tgbmurzgkqlgpkziugvl gvsbmkzrbt,gqu
aspprirulbotgauu;g.uivsau,grpgrbgquzugak,gqugamkso gzuiurnugbmufgvpbuz
bmugavfugfvlluz;gqrlugqkso gmvnugbmugavfugzuoramgqrbmgbmugaricgvagqrbm
bmugmuvobmpso;gmugqmkgmvagmragprlxuzgimvwbgkzg.ulsf.u gqkso gprl gbmu
avfugmvz luaagrlgqkk gkzgrzklgbmvbgmugmvl ouagbmvbgvlkbmuzg kua;gpkzurxl
as.yuibagbmulgaszzul uzgbmufauonuagbkgkszgfuzit,gvl gvzugauvbu grlgsagva
qugwouvaujgLkqgrpgklgkszgwvzbgqugzuiurnu gvltgbmrlxgqrbmksbgvobuzvbrkl,
rpgmsfvlgxzvawgquzugivwv.ougvl gabzklxgulksxmgbkgaurdugklgbzsbmg.tgksz
kqlgfuvla,gbmuaugfuvlag.urlxgikffklgbkgvoogful,gbmragbzsbmgqkso g.u
iklnutu gpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl ,gpzkfgklugbkgvlkbmuz;gvl gvbgouvabgbmuzu
qkso g.ugakfugklugbmrlxgbkg.ugpksl grlgbmugqkzo ,gvfklxabgakgfvltgva
bmuzugvzu,gbmvbgqkso g.ug.uorunu g.tgfulgqrbmgvlgslrnuzavogiklaulb;
.sbgbmra,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgklugwzkwkarbrklgbmvbgraglkbg u.vbu gvl 
iklbzknuzbu gvfklxabgsa,gkzgbmvbgfvtglkbg.u,gfvcuagrbgnuztgfvlrpuabgbmvb
kszglvbszvogys xfulbg kuaglkbgnuztgiouvzotg raiuzlgqmvbgrbguf.zviua;gpkz
ftgys xfulbgivllkbgfvcugftgikfwvlrklagvwwzknugkpgqmvbgrbgvwwzknua;gqmrim
ragvgarxlgbmvbgRgaurdu grbg.tgakfugkbmuzgfuvlagbmvlg.tgvglvbszvogwkquz
bmvbgragrlgfugvl grlgvoogkbmuzgfulj

Oubgsagovtgvar ugbmragrlprlrbugiklpsarklgkpgkwrlrkla,gqmrimgqugauugunul
vfklxabgbmugwmrokakwmuzagbmufauonua,gvl gbmragwuzwubsvogvl gslrnuzavo
 rawsbugv.ksbgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmrlxa;gpkzgbmragragbzsotgwzuaswwkau ,
bmvbgful,gRgfuvlgbmugfkabgclkqrlx,gbmug.uabg.kf,gvl gkpgbmug.uabgwvzba,
vzuglkbgvxzuu gv.ksbgvltgklugbmrlx,glkbgbmvbgmuvnulgragknuzgkszgmuv a;
pkzgbmutgbmvbg ks.bgkpgunuztgbmrlx,g kgvoakg ks.bgkpgbmvb;gvl gbmut
qmkg ultgbmvbgqugvzugv.ougbkgikfwzumul gvltgbmrlx,gavtgbmvbgqugmvnuglkb
ikfwzumul u gbmvbgbmugmuvnulgragknuzgkszgmuv a,gvl gbmuaugbqkgkwrlrkla
vzu,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gbmugabzklxuzgrlglsf.uzj

.uar uagbmragrlprlrbug rnuzarbtgvl g rnrarkl,gbmzksxmgbmugbzks.ougbmvb
kszgys xfulbgxrnuagkszauonua,gvl gbmugrliuzbvrlbtgbmvbgunuztgklugra
aular.ougkpgrlgmrfauop,g‘braguvatgbkgwuziurnugbmvbgrbagauvbgragnuzt
slabv.ougvl grlauiszujgMkqgnvzrksaotg kgqugys xugkpgbmrlxa?--Mkqgkpbul
 kgqugvobuzgkszgkwrlrkla?gQmvbgRgmko gvl g.uorunugbk- vtgRgmko gvl 
.uorunugqrbmgftgqmkoug.uorup;gvoogftgrlabzsfulbagvl gulxrluagaurdugvl 
bvcugmko gkpgbmragkwrlrkl,gvl g.uikfugzuawklar.ougbkgfugpkzgrb,gvbgouvab
vagfsimgvagrlgbmufgorua;gRgikso glkbguf.zviuglkzgiklauznugvltgbzsbm
qrbmgxzuvbuzgiklpr uliugvl gvaaszvliugbmvlgRg kgbmra;gRgvfgqmkootgvl 
ulbrzuotgwkaauaau gqrbmgrb;g.sbgmvagrbglkbg.upvooulgfu,glkbgklotgkliu,
.sbgvgmsl zu ,gvgbmksavl gbrfua,gunuztg vt,gbkgmvnuguf.zviu gakfugkbmuz
bmrlxgqrbmgvoogbmugavfugrlabzsfulba,gvl grlgbmugavfugikl rbrkl,gqmrim
Rgmvnugarliugys xu gbkg.ugpvoau?gVgfvlgfsabgvbgouvabg.uikfugqraugvbgmra
kqlguhwulau;grpgRgmvnugkpbulgpksl gftauopg.ubzvtu gsl uzgbmragikoksz;grp
ftgbksimgwzknuagikffklotgpvoau,gvl gftg.vovliugsluesvogvl gslysab,gqmvb
vaaszvliugivlgRglkqgmvnugfkzugbmvlgvbgkbmuzgbrfua?gRagrbglkbgabswr rbt
vl gfv luaagbkgasppuzgftauopgbkg.ugakgkpbulg uiurnu g.tgftgxsr u?
Lunuzbmuouaa,goubgpkzbslugzufknugvl gamrpbgsagprnugmsl zu gbrfuagpzkf
woviugbkgwoviu,goubgmuzg kglkbmrlxg.sbgrliuaavlbotgufwbtgvl gproogrlbk
kszg.uorup,gvagrlbkgvgnuaauo,gkbmuzgvl gkbmuzgkwrlrkla;gtubgabroogbmu
wzuaulbgvl gbmugovabgragbmugiuzbvrlgvl grlpvoor.ougklu;gpkzgbmragqugfsab
v.vl klgxkk a,gmklksz,gorpu,gmuvobm,gvl gvooj


ggggggWkabuzrkzjjjjgzuagrorvgzuwuzbv
gggWuz rb,gubgrffsbvbgaulasagv gwzrabrlvgelæeluj

gggggg“Bmugovabgbmrlxagqugprl gksbgvzugvoqvtag.uab,
gggVl gfvcugsagbkg razuoramgvoogbmugzuabj”


Qmvbunuzgragwzuvimu gbkgsa,gvl gqmvbunuzgqugouvzl,gqugamkso gabroo
zufuf.uzgbmvbgrbgragfvlgbmvbgxrnuagvl gfvlgbmvbgzuiurnua;g‘bragvgfkzbvo
mvl gbmvbgwzuaulbagrbgbkgsa;g‘bragvgfkzbvogmvl gbmvbgviiuwbagrbgBmu
bmrlxagbmvbgikfugbkgsagpzkfgmuvnulgmvnugbmugakougzrxmbgvl gvsbmkzrbtgkp
wuzasvarkl,gbmugakougfvzcgkpgbzsbm;gqmrimgvoakgqug kglkbgauugqrbmgksz
kqlgutua,glkzgzuiurnug.tgkszgkqlgfuvla;gbmvbgxzuvbgvl gavizu grfvxu
ikso glkbgv.r ugrlgakgqzubimu gvgmv.rbvbrklgrpgXk gpkzgbmragul g r glkb
wzuwvzugrb,grpgXk g r glkbg.tgmragwvzbrisovzgvl gaswuzlvbszvogxzviugvl 
pvnkszgpkzbrptgvl gzupkzfgrbjgVbgouvabgkszgpzvrogvl g upuibrnugikl rbrkl
ksxmbgbkgfvcugsag.umvnugkszauonuagqrbmgfkzugzuauznu luaagvl gfk uzvbrkl
rlgkszgrllknvbrklagvl gimvlxua;gqugksxmbgbkgzufuf.uzgbmvb,gqmvbunuzgqu
zuiurnugrlbkgbmugsl uzabvl rlx,gqugkpbulgzuiurnugbmrlxagbmvbgvzugpvoau,
vl gbmvbgrbgrag.tgbmugavfugrlabzsfulbagbmvbgakgkpbulgxrnugbmufauonuagbmu
orugvl gvzugakgkpbulg uiurnu j

Lkqgrbgraglkgqkl uzgbmutgamkso gakgkpbulgiklbzv ribgbmufauonua,g.urlx
akguvatgbkg.ugbszlu gvl gaqvtu g.tgnuztgorxmbgkiiszzuliuajgRbgragiuzbvrl
bmvbgkszgvwwzumularkla,gkszgys xfulb,gvl gbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugaksogrl
xuluzvo,gasppuzgviikz rlxgbkgbmugfknufulbagvl gvobuzvbrklagkpgbmug.k t,
qmrimgvobuzvbrklagvzugiklbrlsvojgVzuglkbgkszgfrl agfkzugawzrxmbot,gksï
fufkzruagfkzugwzkfwbgvl gesric,gvl gkszgbmksxmbagfkzugornuot,grlgmuvobm
bmvlgrlgaricluaa?g kglkbgyktgvl gxvtubtgfvcugsagzuiurnugas.yuiba
bmvbgwzuaulbgbmufauonuagbkgkszgaksoagesrbugkbmuzqraugbmvlgivzugvl 
fuovlimkot?g kgtksg.uorunugbmvbgIvbsoosa’agnuzaua,gkzgbmkaugkpgAvwwmk,
wouvaugvlgko g kbrlxgfrauzgvagbmutg kgvgnrxkzksa,gvfkzksagtkslxgfvl?
Ioukfulua,gbmugaklgkpgVluhvl zr va,g.urlxgaric,gmragpzrul agzuwzkvimu 
mrfgbmvbgmugmv gmsfkszagvl gqmrfaruagbmvbgquzugluqgvl gslviisabkfu ;
“Rg.uorunugrb,”gavr gmu;g“lurbmuzgvfgRgbmugavfugfvlglkqgvagqmulgRgvfgrl
muvobm;g.urlxglkqgvlkbmuzgwuzakl,gftgkwrlrklagvl gpvliruagvzugvoakgkbmuz
bmvlgbmutgquzug.upkzuj”gRlgkszgikszbagkpgysabriugbmragqkz gragfsimgrl
sau,gqmrimgragawkculgkpgizrfrlvoagqmulgbmutgprl gbmugys xuagrlgvgxkk 
msfksz,gxulbou,gvl gfro ,g_Xvs uvbg ug.klâgpkzbslâg_;g“Oubgmrfgzuykriu
rlgmragxkk gpkzbslu;”gpkzgrbgragfkabgiuzbvrlgbmvbgful’agys xfulbagvzu
akfubrfuagfkzugwzklugbkgikl uflvbrkl,gfkzugamvzwgvl gaunuzu,gvl gvb
kbmuzagfkzugpvirou,guvat,gvl grliorlu gbkguhisau;gmugbmvbgivzzruagqrbm
mrfgpzkfgmragmksaugbmugwvrlgkpgbmugxksb,gyuvoksat,gkzgbmupbg.tgmragfvl,
mvnrlxgmragqmkougaksogwkaauaau gqrbmgvlxuz,grbgraglkbgbkg.ug ks.bu 
.sbgbmvbgmragys xfulbgqroogouvlgbmragqvtjgBmvbgnuluzv.ougaulvbugkpgbmu
Vzukwvxrbuagsau gbkgmuvzgvl g ubuzfrlug.tglrxmb,gpkzgpuvzgouabgbmugarxmb
kpgbmugwvzbruagfrxmbgikzzswbgbmurzgysabriujgBmugnuztgvrzgrbauop,gvl gbmu
auzulrbtgkpgmuvnul,gqroogivsaugakfugfsbvbrklgrlgsa,gviikz rlxgbkgbmuau
nuzauagrlgIriuzk:--


ggggggBvouagaslbgmkfrllfgfulbua,gesvorgwvbuzgrwau
gggYswrbuzgvsibrpuzâgosabzvnrbgovfwv ugbuzzvaj

gggggg“Ful’agfrl agvzugrlposuli’ g.tgbm’guhbuzlvogvrz,
ggg vzcgkzgauzulu,gvag vtagvzugpksogkzgpvrzj”


‘Braglkbgklotgpunuza,g u.vsimua,gvl gxzuvbgviir ulba,gbmvbgknuzbmzkqgksz
ys xfulba,--bmugouvabgbmrlxagrlgbmugqkzo gqroog kgrb;gvl gqugvzuglkbgbk
 ks.b,gbmksxmgqugfvtglkbg.ugaular.ougkpgrb,gbmvbgrpgvgiklbrlsu gpunuz
ivlgknuzqmuofgbmugakso,gvgbuzbrvlgqroogrlgakfugwzkwkzbrklvbugfuvaszu
vobuzgrb;grpgvlgvwkwouhtgivlgabswuptgvl gbkbvootguhbrlxsramgbmugarxmbgkp
kszgsl uzabvl rlx,gqugvzuglkbgbkg ks.bg.sbgbmvbgvgxzuvbgiko gqroog vddou
rb;gvl giklauesulbotgbmuzugragmvz otgklugarlxougmkszgrlgvgfvl’agqmkou
orpugqmuzurlgkszgys xfulbgragrlgrbag sugwoviugvl gzrxmbgikl rbrkl,gksz
.k ruag.urlxgas.yuibgbkgakgfvltgiklbrlsvogfsbvbrkla,gvl gabsppu gqrbmgak
fvltgaunuzvogakzbagkpgawzrlxa,gbmvbgRg.uorunugbmugwmtarirvla,gbmvbgrbgra
mvz g.sbgbmvbgbmuzugfsabg.ugvoqvtagakfugklugkzgkbmuzgksbgkpgkz uzj

Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,gbmragfvov tg kuaglkbgnuztguvarotg raiknuzgrbauop,
slouaagrbg.uguhbzufugvl gwvabgzufu t;gpkzvafsimgvagzuvaklgxkuagvoqvta
ovfu,gmvobrlx,gvl gbmvbgbkkgvagquoogqrbmgpvoaumkk gvagqrbmgbzsbm;gvl 
bmuzupkzug‘bragmvz gbkg raiknuzgmuzg unrvbrklagvl gfrabvcuajgRgvoqvta
ivoogbmvbgvwwuvzvliugkpgfu rbvbrklgqmrimgunuztgklugpkzxuagrlgmrfauop
zuvakl;gbmragzuvakl,gkpgbmugikl rbrklgkpgqmrimgbmuzugfvtg.ugvgmsl zu 
iklbzvztgkluagv.ksbgklugvl gbmugavfugas.yuib,gragvlgrlabzsfulbgkpgouv 
vl gkpgqvh,g sibrou,gworv.ou,gvl gviikffk vbugbkgvoogakzbagkpg.rvaua,
vl gbkgvoogfuvaszua;gakgbmvbglkbmrlxgzufvrlag.sbgbmugvzbgvl gacroogmkq
bkgbszlgvl gfkso grbjgMkqgswzrxmbotgakunuzgvgys xugfvtgfuvl,grpgmu
 kuaglkbgokkcgquoogbkgmrfauop,gqmrimgpuqgivzugbkg k,gmragrliorlvbrklgbk
pzrul amrw,gbkgzuovbrklamrw,gbkg.uvsbtgkzgzunulxu,gvl glkbgklotgbmrlxa
kpgbmvbgqurxmb,g.sbgunulgbmugpkzbsrbksagrlabrlibgbmvbgfvcuagsagpvnksz
klugbmrlxgfkzugbmvlgvlkbmuz,gvl gbmvb,gqrbmksbgzuvakl’agwuzfraarkl,gwsba
bmugimkriugswklgsagrlgbqkguesvogas.yuiba,gkzgakfugamv kqgkpgorcu
nvlrbt,gfvtgrlaular.otgrlarlsvbugrlbkgmragys xfulbgbmugzuikfful vbrklgkz
 rapvnkszgkpgvgivsau,gvl gfvcugbmug.vovliug rwj

R,gbmvbgqvbimgftauopgvaglvzzkqotgvagRgivl,gvl gbmvbgmvnugftgutua
iklbrlsvootg.ulbgswklgftauop,gorcugklugbmvbgmvaglkgxzuvbg.sarluaagbkg k
uoauqmuzu,


ggggggEsragas.gVzibkgZuhgxuor ægfubsvbszgkzæ,
gggEsr gBtzr vbufgbuzzuvb,gslriugAuiszsa,

gggggg“Rgivzuglkbgqmkfgbmuglkzbmuzlgiorfugzunuzua,
gggKzgqmvb’agbmugcrlxgbmvbgBtzr vbuagpuvza,”


 vzugmvz otgbuoogbmugnvlrbtgvl gquvcluaagRgprl grlgftauopgFtgpkkbgragak
slabv.ougvl gslabuv t,gRgprl gftauopgakgvwbgbkgbkbbuzgvl gzuuo,gvl gft
arxmbgakg rakz uzu ,gbmvb,gpvabrlx,gRgvfgesrbugvlkbmuzgfvlgbmvlgqmul
psoo;grpgmuvobmgvl gvgpvrzg vtgafrougswklgfu,gRgvfgvgnuztgvppv.ou,
xkk -lvbszu gfvl;grpgvgikzlgbzks.ougftgbku,gRgvfgasooul,gksbgkpgmsfksz,
vl glkbgbkg.ugauuljgBmugavfugwviugkpgvgmkzaugauufagbkgfugklugqmrou
mvz ,gvl gvlkbmuzguvat;gvl gbmugavfugqvtgklugqmrougamkzbuz,gvl gvlkbmuz
oklxuz;gvl gbmugavfugpkzfgklugqmrougfkzu,gvlkbmuzgouaagvxzuuv.ou:gRgvf
klugqmrougpkzg krlxgunuztgbmrlx,gvl gvlkbmuzgpkzg krlxglkbmrlxgvbgvoo;
vl gqmvbgwouvauagfuglkqgqkso g.ugvgbzks.ougbkgfugvbgvlkbmuzgbrfujgR
mvnugvgbmksavl gaulauouaagvl givasvogvibrklagqrbmrlgftauop;gurbmuzgR
vfgwkaauaau g.tgfuovlimkotgkzgaqvtu g.tgimkouz;glkqg.tgrbagkqlgwzrnvbu
vsbmkzrbtgav luaagwzu kfrlvbuagrlgfu,gvl g.tgvl g.t,gRgvfgvagfuzztgva
vgizricubjgQmulgRgbvcugvg.kkcgrlgmvl gRgmvnugbmulg raiknuzu gv frzv.ou
xzviuagrlgasimgvl gasimgwvaavxua,gvl gasimgvagmvnugabzsicgftgakso;goub
fugorxmbgswklgbmufgvbgvlkbmuzgbrfu,gRgfvtgbszlgvl gbkaa,gbsf.ou
vl gzvbbougbmugouvnuagbkglkgwszwkau;g‘bragbmulgbkgfugvlgrlpkzfgvl 
sl raiknuzu gfvaajgUnulgrlgftgkqlgqzrbrlxagRg kglkbgvoqvtagprl gbmugvrz
kpgftgprzabgpvlit;gRgclkqglkbgqmvbgRgqkso gmvnugavr ,gvl gvfgkpbulgwsb
bkgrbgbkgikzzuibgvl gwsfwgpkzgvgluqgaulau,g.uivsaugRgmvnugokabgbmugprzab
bmvbgqvag.ubbuzjgRg kglkbmrlxg.sbgxkgvl gikfu;gftgys xfulbg kuaglkb
voqvtagv nvliu--rbgpokvbagvl gzkvfa:--


ggggggNuosbgfrlsbvgfvxlk
ggg uwzulavglvnragrlgfvzrgnuavlrulbugnulbkj

gggggg“Orcugvgafvoog.vzcgbmvb’agbkabgswklgbmugfvrlj
gggQmulgqrl agbufwuabsksagmuvnugbmugoresr gwovrlj”


Nuztgkpbul,gvagRgvfgvwbgbkg k,gmvnrlxgpkzguhuziraugbvculgbkgfvrlbvrlgvl
kwrlrklgiklbzvztgbkgftgkql,gftgfrl ,g.ul rlxgvl gvwwotrlxgrbauopgbmvb
qvt,g kuagakgulxvxugfugbmvbgqvtgbmvbgRglkgfkzug raiuzlgbmugzuvaklgkpgft
pkzfuzg.uorup,gvl gpkzavcugrbgRgvf,gvagrbgquzu,gfraou g.tgbmugar ugbk
qmrimgRgrliorlu,g.ugrbgqmvbgrbgqroo,gvl givzzru gvqvtg.tgftgkqlgqurxmbj
Unuztgklugvofkabgqkso gavtgbmugavfugkpgmrfauop,grpgmugiklar uzu gmrfauop
vagRg kjgWzuvimuzagnuztgquoogclkqgbmvbgbmugufkbrklagqmrimgabuvogswkl
bmufgrlgawuvcrlxgvlrfvbugbmufgbkqvz ag.uorup;gvl gbmvbgrlgwvaarklgqu
vzugfkzugqvzfgrlgbmug upuliugkpgkszgwzkwkarbrkl,gbvcugkszauonuagvg uuwuz
rfwzuaarklgkpgrb,gvl guf.zviugrbgqrbmgxzuvbuzgnumufuliugvl gvwwzk.vbrkl
bmvlgqug kgrlgkszgiko uzgvl gfkzugbufwuzvbugabvbujgTksgklotgxrnugtksz
ikslauogvgarfwoug.zrupgkpgtkszgivsau;gmugzubszlagtksgvg s.rksagvl 
sliuzbvrlgvlaquz,g.tgqmrimgtksgprl gmrfgrl rppuzulbgqmrimgar ugmugbvcuaj
Mvnugtksgpuu gmrfgquoogbmvbgmugfvtgzuoramgrbgbmug.ubbuz,g kuagmug.uxrl
bkg.ugzuvootgikliuzlu ,gvl g kgtksgprl gmrfgrlbuzuabu gvl gduvoksagrl
tkszgesvzzuo?gmragzuvaklgvl gouvzlrlxgqroog.tg uxzuuagxzkqgmkbgrlgtksz
ivsau;g.umko gvlgvwwvzulbgvl gsl ks.bu gbzsbmgwzuaulbagrbauopgbkgmra
sl uzabvl rlx;gmug raiknuzagvgluqgorxmbgrlgtkszg.sarluaa,gvl g kuagrl
xkk guvzluabg.uorunugvl gwuzasv ugmrfauopgbmvbgrbgragakjgLvt,gRg kglkb
clkqgqmubmuzgbmugvz kszgbmvbgawzrlxagpzkfgawrbugvl gk.abrlvit,gvxvrlab
bmugwkquzgvl gnrkouliugkpgbmugfvxrabzvbugvl g vlxuz,gkzgbmugrlbuzuabgkp
zuwsbvbrkl,gfvtglkbgmvnugfv ugakfugful,gunulgvbgbmugabvcu,gfvrlbvrlgbmu
kwrlrklgpkzgqmrim,gvbgor.uzbt,gvl gvfklxabgpzrul a,gbmutgqkso glkbgmvnu
.szlu gvgprlxuzjgBmugamkicagvl gykabouagbmvbgbmugaksogzuiurnuagpzkfgbmu
.k t’agwvaarklagivlg kgfsimgrlgrb,g.sbgrbagkqlgivlg kgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzu;
bkgqmrimgrbgragakgas.yuibu gbmvbgwuzmvwagrbgfvtg.ugfv ugxkk gbmvbgrbgmva
lkgkbmuzgwviugvl gfkbrklg.sbgpzkfgbmug.zuvbmgkpgbmkaugqrl a,gqrbmksbgbmu
vxrbvbrklgkpgqmrimgrbgqkso g.ug.uivofu gvl gqrbmksbgvibrkl,gorcugv
amrwgrlgbmugfr  ougkpgbmugauv,gbkgqmrimgbmugqrl agmvzug ulru 
bmurzgvaarabvliujgVl gqmkunuzgamkso gfvrlbvrlgbmra,gar rlxgqrbmgbmu
Wuzrwvbubria,gqkso g kgsaglkgxzuvbgqzklx,gauurlxgrbgragnuztgquoogclkql
bmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabglk.ougvibrklagkpgbmugaksogwzkiuu gpzkf,gvl 
abvl grlgluu gkp,gbmragrfwsoaugkpgbmugwvaarklajgNvoksz,gbmutgavt,
ivllkbg.ugwuzpuibgqrbmksbgbmugvaarabvliugkpgvlxuz;g_AufwuzgVyvhgpkzbra,
pkzbraarfsagbvfulgrlgpszkzu;_g“Vyvhgqvagvoqvtag.zvnu,g.sbgfkabgqmulgrl
vgpszt:”glurbmuzg kgqugulikslbuzgbmugqricu gvl gbmuguluftgnrxkzksaot
ulksxmgrpgqug.uglkbgvlxzt;glvt,gbmugv nkivbu,grbgragavr ,gragbkgrlawrzu
bmugys xuagqrbmgrl rxlvbrkl,gbkgk.bvrlgysabriuj

Rzzuxsovzg uarzuagfknu gBmufrabkioua,gvl g ufkabmulua,gvl gmvnugwsamu 
klgbmugwmrokakwmuzagbkgqvbimrlx,gpvabrlx,gvl gwroxzrfvxua;gvl gouv gsa
bkgmklksz,gouvzlrlx,gvl gmuvobm,gqmrimgvzugvoognuztgsaupsogul ajgVl 
bmragfuvlluaagkpgakso,grlgasppuzrlxgvlhrubtgvl gbzks.ou,gauznuagbkg.zuu 
zufkzaugvl gzuwulbvliugrlgbmugiklairuliu,gvl gbkgfvcugsagaular.ougkp
bmugaikszxugkpgXk ,gvl gwkorbrigikzzuibrklgpkzgbmugimvabraufulbgkp
kszgkppuliua;gikfwvaarklgragvgawszgbkgioufulit;gvl gbmugwzs uliugkp
wzuauznrlxgvl gxknuzlrlxgkszauonuagragzksau g.tgkszgpuvz;gvl gmkqgfvlt
.zvnugvibrklag.tgvf.rbrkl!gmkqgfvltg.tgwzuasfwbrkl!gRlgamkzb,gbmuzugra
lkg.zvnugvl gawrzrbsvognrzbsugqrbmksbgakfugrzzuxsovzgvxrbvbrkljgFvtglkb
bmrag.ugklugkpgbmugzuvaklagbmvbgfknu gbmugUwriszuvlagbkg raimvzxugXk 
pzkfgvoogivzugvl gakorirbs ugkpgkszgvppvrza;g.uivsaugunulgbmuguppuibagkp
mragxkk luaagikso glkbg.uguhuzirau grlgkszg.umvopgqrbmksbg rabsz.rlxgrba
zuwkau,g.tgbmugfuvlagkpgwvaarklagqmrimgvzugakgfvltgawszagvl grlabzsfulba
wzricrlxgklgbmugaksogbkgnrzbsksagvibrkla;gkzgmvnugbmutgbmksxmb
kbmuzqrau,gvl gbvculgbmufgpkzgbufwuaba,gbmvbgamvfupsootgmszztgbmugakso
pzkfgmuzgbzvlesroorbt?g_Sbgfvzragbzvlesroorbvagrlbubbrxrbsz,glsooâ,glu
frlrfvgesr uf,gvszvgposibsagikffknulbu:gArigvlrfrgesrubsagubgwovivbsa
abvbsagiufrbsz,gessfgwuzbsz.vbraglsoovguab,gesvgfknuzrgesuvbjj_g“Vagrb
ragsl uzabkk gbkg.ugvgivofgauvgqmulgbmuzugraglkbgbmugouvabg.zuvbmgkpgvrz
abrzzrlx;gakgbmugabvbugkpgbmugaksograg raiuzlu gbkg.ugesrubgvl gvwwuvau 
qmulgbmuzugraglkgwuzbsz.vbrklgbkgfknugrbj”

Qmvbgnvzrubruagkpgaulaugvl gzuvakl,gqmvbgiklbzvzrubtgkpgrfvxrlvbrkla
 kuagbmug rnuzarbtgkpgkszgwvaarklagrlawrzugsagqrbm!gQmvbgvaaszvliugbmul
ivlgqugbvcugkpgvgbmrlxgakgfk.rougvl gslabv.ou,gas.yuibg.tgrbagikl rbrkl
bkgbmug kfrlrklgkpgbzks.ou,gvl glunuzgxkrlxgkbmuzgbmvlgvgpkziu gvl 
.kzzkqu gwviu?gRpgkszgys xfulbg.ugrlgbmugwkquzgunulgkpgaricluaagvl 
wuzbsz.vbrkl;grpgrbg.ugpzkfgpkootgvl gzvamluaagbmvbgrbgragbkgzuiurnugbmu
rfwzuaarklgkpgbmrlxa,gqmvbgauiszrbtgivlgquguhwuibgpzkfgrb?

Ragrbglkbgvgxzuvbg.ko luaagrlgwmrokakwmtgbkg.uorunugbmvbgfulgwuzpkzfgbmu
xzuvbuabgvibrkla,gvl gluvzuabgvwwzkvimrlxgbmug rnrlrbt,gqmulgbmut
vzugpszrksa,gfv ,gvl g.uar ugbmufauonua?gQug.ubbuzgkszauonuag.tgbmu
wzrnvbrklgkpgkszgzuvakl,gvl g zroorlxgrbjgBmugbqkglvbszvogqvtagbk
ulbuzgrlbkgbmugiv.rlubgkpgbmugxk a,gvl gbmuzugbkgpkzuauugbmugikszaugkp
 uabrlt,gvzugpsztgvl gaouuwj

Bmragragwouvavlbgbkgiklar uz;g.tgbmug raokivbrklgbmvbgwvaarklagivsau
rlgkszgzuvakl,gqug.uikfugnrzbsksa;g.tgrbaguhbrzwvbrkl,gkiivarklu g.t
fv luaagkzgbmugrfvxugkpg uvbm,gqug.uikfug rnrluzagvl gwzkwmubajgRgqva
lunuzgakgqroorlxgbkg.uorunugwmrokakwmtgrlgvltgbmrlxgvagbmrajg‘Bragvgwszu
ulbmsarvafgqmuzuqrbmgavizu gbzsbmgmvagrlawrzu gbmugawrzrbgkpgwmrokakwmt,
qmrimgfvcuagrbgiklpuaa,giklbzvztgbkgrbagkqlgwzkwkarbrkl,gbmvbgbmugfkab
ivof,gikfwkau ,gvl gmuvobmpsoguabvbugupgbmugaksogbmvbgwmrokakwmtgivl
auvbgrbgrlgraglkbgrbag.uabgikl rbrkl;gkszgqvcrlxgragfkzugvgaouuwgbmvl
aouuwgrbauop,gkszgqra kfgouaagqraugbmvlgpkoot;gkszg zuvfagvzugqkzbmgfkzu
bmvlgkszgfu rbvbrkl;gvl gbmugqkzabgwoviugqugivlgbvcugragrlgkszauonuaj
.sbg kuaglkbgwmrokakwmtgbmrlcgbmvbgqugvzugqraugulksxmgbkgiklar uz
bmvbgbmugnkriugbmvbgbmugawrzrbgsbbuza,gqmulg rafraau gpzkfgfvl,gak
iouvz-arxmbu ,gakgxzuvb,gvl gakgwuzpuib,gvl gqmroabgrbgragrlgfvlgak
buzzuabzrvo,grxlkzvlb,gvl g vzc,gragvgnkriugwzkiuu rlxgpzkfgbmugawrzrb
kpg vzc,gbuzzuabzrvo,gvl grxlkzvlbgfvl,gvl gpkzgbmragzuvaklgvgnkriuglkb
bkg.ugbzsabu gvl g.uorunu ?

R,g.urlxgkpgvgakpbgvl gmuvntgikfwouhrkl,gmvnuglkgxzuvbguhwuzruliugkp
bmuaugnumufulbgvxrbvbrkla,gbmugfkabgkpgqmrimgaszwzraugbmugaksogklgv
as  ul,gqrbmksbgxrnrlxgrbgouraszugbkgzuikoouibgrbauopjg.sbgbmugwvaarkl
bmvbgragavr gbkg.ugwzk siu g.tgr ouluaagrlgbmugmuvzbagkpgtkslxgful,
bmksxmgrbgwzkiuu gouraszuot,gvl gqrbmgvgfuvaszu gwzkxzuaa,g kua
unr ulbotgfvlrpuab,gbkgbmkaugqmkgmvnugbzru gbkgkwwkaugrbagwkquz,gbmu
nrkouliugkszgys xfulbgasppuzagrlgbmragvobuzvbrklgvl giklnuzarkljgRgmvnu
pkzfuzotgvbbufwbu gbkgqrbmabvl gvl gzuwuogrb;gpkzgRgvfgakgpvzgpzkfg.urlx
klugkpgbmkaugbmvbgrlnrbugnriua,gbmvbgRg kglkbgakgfsimgvagpkookqgbmuf,grp
bmutg kglkbgmvsogfugvoklx;gRgwuziurnu grbgbkgawzrlx,gxzkq,gvl grlizuvau,
rlgawrbugkpgftgzuarabvliu;gvl gvbgovab,gornrlxgvl gauurlxgvagRgqva,
qmkootgbkgaurdugvl gwkaauaagfujgAkgbmvb,gvagrpgzksarlxgpzkfg zslculluaa,
bmugrfvxuagkpgbmrlxag.uxvlgbkgvwwuvzgbkgfugesrbugkbmuzgbmvlgbmutgsau 
bkg.u;gRgunr ulbotgavqgbmugv nvlbvxuagkpgbmugk.yuibgRg uarzu ,gxzkq,
vl grlizuvau,gvl guhwvl g.tgbmugrlposuliugkpgftgrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gbmu
 rpprisobruagkpgftgvbbufwbgbkgxzkqgfkzuguvatgvl gafkkbm;gvl g.kbmgft
zuvaklgvl giklairuliugbkg.ugovr gvar u;g.sbgbmragprzug.urlxgunvwkzvbu 
rlgvlgrlabvlb,gvagpzkfgvgpovamgkpgorxmblrlx,gRgqvagvqvzugbmvbgftgakso
zuasfu gvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgarxmb,gvlkbmuzgabvbu,gvl gvlkbmuzgys xfulb;
bmug rpprisobruagkpgzubzuvbgvwwuvzu gxzuvbgvl grlnrlir.ou,gvl gbmugavfu
bmrlxagmv gesrbugvlkbmuzgbvabugvl gvawuibgbmvlgbmugmuvbgkpg uarzugmv 
wzuaulbu gbmufgbkgfu;gqmrimgkpgbmugbqkgfkabgbzsot?gWtzzmkgclkqaglkbmrlx
v.ksbgrbjgQugvzuglunuzgqrbmksbgaricluaajgVxsuagmvnugbmurzgmkbgvl giko 
prba;gpzkfgbmuguppuibagkpgvlgvz ulbgwvaarklgqugpvoogvxvrlgbkgamrnuzrlx;
vagfsimgvagRgmv gv nvliu ,gakgfsimgRgzubrzu :--


ggggggEsvorags.rgvobuzlkgwzkiszzulagxszxrbugwklbsa,
gggLsligzsrbgv gbuzzva,gaikwsokaesugaswuzyvirbgsl vf
gggAwsfusa,guhbzufvfesugarlsgwuzpsl rbgvzulvf;
gggLsligzvwr sagzubzk,gvbesugæabsgzunkosbvgzuakz.ula
gggAvhv,gpsxrb,gorbbsaesugnv kgov.ulbugzuormesrbj

gggggg“Akgaquoorlxgaszxua,gqrbmgvgbmsl uzrlxgzkvz,
ggg zrn’lgklguvimgkbmuza’g.vica,grlasobgbmugamkzu,
ggg.ksl gk’uzgbmugzkica,gulizkvimgswklgbmugovl ,
gggVl gpvzgswklgbmug.uvimgmuvnugswgbmugavl ;
gggBmulg.vicqvz gzvwr otgbmutgbvcugbmurzgqvt,
gggZuwsoau gpzkfgswwuzgxzksl ,gvl gauucgbmugauvj”


Lkq,gpzkfgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmragnkos.rorbtgkpgfrlu,gRgmvnugviir ulbvoot
.uxkbgrlgftauopgvgiuzbvrlgiklabvlitgkpgkwrlrkla,gvl gmvnuglkbgfsim
vobuzu gbmkaugbmvbgquzugprzabgvl glvbszvogrlgfu;gpkzgqmvbgvwwuvzvliu
akunuzgbmuzugfvtg.ugrlglknuobt,gRg kglkbguvarotgimvlxu,gpkzgpuvzgkp
okarlxg.tgbmug.vzxvrl;gvl ,gvagRgvfglkbgivwv.ougkpgimkkarlx,gRgbvcu
kbmuzgful’agimkriu,gvl gcuuwgftauopgrlgbmugabvbrklgqmuzurlgXk gmva
woviu gfu;gRgikso glkbgkbmuzqraugcuuwgftauopgpzkfgwuzwubsvogzkoorlxj
BmsagmvnugR,g.tgbmugxzviugkpgXk ,gwzuauznu gftauopgulbrzu,gqrbmksb
vlhrubtgkzgbzks.ougkpgiklairuliu,grlgbmugvlirulbgpvrbmgkpgkszgzuorxrkl,
vfr abgakgfvltgauibagvl g rnrarklagvagkszgvxugmvagwzk siu jgBmugqzrbrlxa
kpgbmugvlirulba,gbmug.uabgvsbmkzagRgfuvl,g.urlxgpsoogvl gakor ,gbufwb
vl givzztgfugqmrimgqvtgvofkabgbmutgqroo;gmugbmvbgRgvfgzuv rlxgauufa
voqvtagbkgmvnugbmugfkabgpkziu;gvl gRgprl gbmvbgunuztgklugrlgmragbszlgra
rlgbmugzrxmb,gbmksxmgbmutgiklbzv ribgklugvlkbmuzjgBmugpvirorbtgbmvbgxkk 
qrbagmvnugkpgzul uzrlxgunuztgbmrlxgorcuotgbmutgqkso gzuikfful ,gvl 
bmvbglkbmrlxgragakgabzvlxugbkgqmrimgbmutg kglkbgsl uzbvcugbkgxrnugikoksz
ulksxmgbkg uiurnugasimgarfworirbtgvagfrlu,gbmragunr ulbotgamkqagbmu
quvcluaagkpgbmurzgbuabrfkltjgBmugmuvnulagvl gbmugabvzagmvnug.uul
bmzuugbmksavl gtuvzagrlgfkbrkl;gvoogbmugqkzo gquzugkpgbmvbg.uorup
broogIouvlbmuagbmugAvfrvl,gkz,gviikz rlxgbkgBmukwmzvabsa,gLriubvagkp
Atzvisau,gbkkcgrbgrlbkgmragmuv gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgrbgqvagbmuguvzbmgbmvb
fknu ,gbszlrlxgv.ksbgrbagvhrag.tgbmugk.oresugirziougkpgbmugdk rvij
Vl gIkwuzlrisagmvagrlgkszgbrfuagakgxzksl u gbmrag kibzrlugbmvbgrbgnuzt
zuxsovzotgauznuagbkgvoogvabzkokxrivogiklauesuliua;gqmvbgsaugivlgqu
fvcugkpgbmra,grpglkbgbmvbgqugksxmbglkbgfsimgbkgivzugqmrimgragbmugbzsu
kwrlrkl?gVl gqmkgclkqag.sbgbmvbgvgbmrz ,gvgbmksavl gtuvzagmuliu,gfvt
knuzgbmzkqgbmugbqkgpkzfuzj


ggggggArignkonul vgæbvagikffsbâbgbufwkzvgzuzsf:
gggEsk gpsrbgrlgwzubrk,gprbglsookg ulresugmklkzu;
gggWkzzkgvors gasiiu rb,gubgugiklbufwbr.saguhrb,
gggRlesug ruagfvxragvwwubrbsz,gpokzubesugzuwuzbsf
gggOvs r.sa,gubgfrzkguabgfkzbvouagrlbuzgmklkzuj

gggggg“Bmsagun’ztgbmrlxgragimvlxu grlgikszaugkpgbrfu,
gggQmvbglkqgragnvosu gwvaauagakklgrbagwzrfu;
gggBkgqmrimgakfugkbmuzgbmrlx,g uawrau g.upkzu,
gggAsiiuu a,gvl gxzkqagrlgnkxsugabroogfkzugvl gfkzu;
gggVl gkliugzuiurnu ,gbkkgpvrlbgvoogwzvrauagauuf,
gggAkgmrxmotgrbgragzvra’ grlgful’aguabuufj”


Akgbmvbgqmulgvltgluqg kibzrlugwzuaulbagrbauopgbkgsa,gqugmvnugxzuvb
zuvaklgbkgfrabzsab,gvl gbkgiklar uzgbmvb,g.upkzugbmvbgqvagaubgklgpkkb,
bmugiklbzvztgmv g.uulgxuluzvootgzuiurnu ;gvl gbmvb,gvagbmvbgmvag.uul
knuzbmzkqlg.tgbmra,gvgbmrz grlnulbrkl,grlgbrfugbkgikfu,gfvtgabvzb
swgqmrimgfvtg vflgbmugauikl jg.upkzugbmugwzrlirwouagbmvbgVzrabkbou
rlbzk siu gquzugrlgzuwsbvbrkl,gkbmuzgwzrlirwouagiklbulbu gmsfvlgzuvakl,
vagbmuaugavbraptgsaglkqjgQmvbgwvbulbgmvnugbmuaugwukwou,gqmvbgwvzbrisovz
wzrnrouxu,gbmvbgbmugivzuuzgkpgkszgrlnulbrklgfsabg.ugabkwwu g.tgbmuf,gvl 
bmvbgbmugwkaauaarklgkpgkszgqmkougpsbszug.uorupgamkso g.uoklxgbkgbmuf?
Bmutgvzuglkgfkzuguhufwbgpzkfg.urlxgbmzsabgksbgkpg kkzagbmvlgbmurz
wzu uiuaakzagquzujgQmulgvltgklugwzuaauagfugqrbmgvgluqgvzxsfulb,gRgksxmb
bkg.uorunugbmvbgqmvbgRgivllkbgvlaquzgvlkbmuzgivl;gpkzgbkg.uorunugvoo
orcuormkk agbmvbgvgfvlgivllkbgiklpsbugragxzuvbgarfworirbt;grbgqkso 
.tgbmvbgfuvlagikfugbkgwvaagbmvbgvoogbmugnsoxvzg(vl gqugvzugvoogkpgbmu
nsoxvz)gqkso gmvnugbmurzg.uorupgvagbsfv.ougvagvgquvbmuzikic;gpkzgbmurz
aksoa,g.urlxgakguvatgbkg.ugrfwkau gswkl,gvl gqrbmksbgvltgzuarabvliu,
fsabgkpgpkziugrliuaavlbotgzuiurnugkbmuzgvl gkbmuzgrfwzuaarkla,gbmugovab
abrooguppvirlxgvoogpkkbabuwagkpgbmvbgqmrimgqulbg.upkzujgMugbmvbgprl a
mrfauopgquvcgksxmbgbkgvlaquz,gviikz rlxgbkgwzvibriu,gbmvbgmugqroogawuvc
qrbmgmragikslauo,gkzgzupuzgmrfauopgbkgbmugqrauz,gpzkfgqmkfgmugzuiurnu 
mragrlabzsibrkljgMkqgoklxgragrbgbmvbgwmtarigmvag.uulgwzvibrau grlgbmu
qkzo ?g‘Bragavr gbmvbgvgluqgikfuz,givoou gWvzviuoasa,gimvlxuagvl 
knuzbmzkqagbmugqmkougkz uzgkpgvlirulbgzsoua,gvl gfvrlbvrlagbmvb,gbroo
lkq,grbgmvag.uulgkpglkgkbmuzgsaug.sbgbkgcroogfuljgRg.uorunugmugqroo
uvarotgfvcugbmragxkk ,g.sbgRg kglkbgbmrlcgrbgquzugqra kfgbkgnulbszugft
orpugrlgfvcrlxgbzrvogkpgmragkqlguhwuzruliujgQugvzuglkbgbkg.uorunugunuzt
klu,gavtagbmugwzuiuwb,g.uivsaugunuztgklugivlgavtgvoogbmrlxajgVgfvlgkp
bmragwzkpuaarklgkpglknuobruagvl gwmtarivogzupkzfvbrklaglkbgoklxgarliu
bko gfugbmvbgvoogbmugvlirulbagquzuglkbkzrksaotgfrabvculgrlgbmuglvbszu
vl gfkbrklagkpgbmugqrl a,gqmrimgmugqkso gunr ulbotg ufklabzvbugbkgfugrp
Rgqkso gxrnugmrfgbmugmuvzrlxjgVpbuzgRgmv gqrbmgakfugwvbruliugmuvz gmra
vzxsfulba,gqmrimgquzugvoogpsoogkpgorcuormkk gkpgbzsbm:g“Qmvb,gbmul,”
gavr gR,g“ r gbmkaugbmvbgavrou gviikz rlxgbkgBmukwmzvabsagfvcugqvt
quabqvz ,gqmulgbmutgmv gbmugwzkqgbkqvz agbmuguvab?g r gbmutgxkgar uqvz 
kzg.vicqvz ?”g“Bmvb’agpkzbslu,”gvlaquzu gmu,g“.sbgakgrbgragbmvbgbmut
quzugfrabvculj”gRgzuworu gbmvbgRgmv gzvbmuzgpkookqguppuibagbmvlgzuvaklj
Lkqgbmuaugvzugbmrlxagbmvbgkpbulgrlbuzpuzugqrbmgklugvlkbmuz,gvl gRgmvnu
.uulgbko gbmvbgrlgxukfubztg(qmrimgwzubul agbkgmvnugxvrlu gbmugmrxmuab
wkrlbgkpgiuzbvrlbtgkpgvoogairuliu)gbmuzugvzugrlunrbv.oug ufklabzvbrkla
pksl gqmrimgas.nuzbgbmugbzsbmgkpgvooguhwuzruliu;gvagYviesuagWuooubruz
bko gfu,gvbgftgkqlgmksau,gbmvbgmugmv gpksl gksbgbqkgorluagabzubimrlx
bmufauonuagklugbkqvz agbmugkbmuzgbkgfuub,gqmrimglunuzbmuouaagmu
vpprzfu ,gbmksxmguhbul u gbkgrlprlrbt,gikso glunuzgvzzrnugbkgbksimgklu
vlkbmuzjgVl gbmugWtzzmklrvlagfvcuglkgkbmuzgsaugkpgbmurzgvzxsfulbagvl 
bmurzgzuvaklgbmvlgbkgzsrlgbmugvwwuvzvliugkpguhwuzruliu;gvl g‘bragv
qkl uzgmkqgpvzgbmugaswwouluaagkpgkszgzuvaklgmvagpkookqu gbmufgrlgbmra
 uarxlgkpgiklbzknuzbrlxgbmugunr uliugkpguppuiba;gpkzgbmutgvpprzfgbmvbgqu
 kglkbgfknu,gbmvbgqug kglkbgawuvc,gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglurbmuzgqurxmbglkz
muvb,gqrbmgbmugavfugpkziugkpgvzxsfulbgbmvbgqugvpprzfgbmugfkabgorcuot
bmrlxajgWbkouft,gqmkgqvagvgxzuvbgfvl,gmv guabv.oramu gbmug.ksl agkpgbmra
qkzo gkpgksza;gvoogbmugvlirulbgwmrokakwmuzagbmksxmbgbmutgmv gbmugfuvaszu
kpgrb,guhiuwbrlxgakfugzufkbugraouagbmvbgfrxmbguaivwugbmurzgclkqou xu;
rbgmv g.uulgWtzzmklraf,gvgbmksavl gtuvzagvxk,gbkg ks.bgbmugairuliugkp
ikafkxzvwmt,gvl gbmugkwrlrklagbmvbgunuztgklugmv gzuiurnu gpzkfgrb;grb
qvagmuzuatgbkgv frbgbmugvlbrwk ua;gvl g.umko ,grlgbmragvxugkpgksza,
bmuzugragvlgrlprlrbuguhbulbgkpgbuzzvgprzfvg raiknuzu ,glkbgvlgraovl gkz
arlxougikslbzt,g.sbgvg rnrarklgkpgbmugqkzo ,gluvzotguesvogrlgxzuvbluaa
bkgbmvbgqugcluqg.upkzujgBmugxukxzvwmuzagkpgkszgbrfugabricglkbgbkgvaaszu
sagbmvbglkqgvoogragpksl ;gvoogragauul:--


gggLvfgesk gv uabgwzkabk,gwoviub,gubgwkoouzugnr ubsz;

ggg“Qmvb’agwzuaulbgwouvaua,gvl gvwwuvzagbmug.uab;”


.sbgrbgzufvrlagbkg.ugauulgqmubmuz,gvagWbkouftgqvagbmuzurlgpkzfuzot
 uiurnu gswklgbmugpksl vbrklgkpgmragzuvakl,grbgquzuglkbgnuztgpkkoramgbk
bzsabglkqgrlgqmvbgbmuaugwukwougavt?gVl gqmubmuzgrbgraglkbgfkzugorcuot
bmvbgbmragxzuvbg.k t,gqmrimgqugivoogbmugqkzo ,graglkbgesrbugvlkbmuz
bmrlxgbmvlgqmvbgqugrfvxrluj

Wovbkgavtagbmvbgrbgimvlxuagikslbulvliugrlgvoogzuawuiba;gbmvbgbmu
muvnula,gbmugabvza,gvl gbmugasl,gmvnugvoogkpgbmufgakfubrfuagfkbrkla
zubzkxzv ugbkgqmvbgqugauu,gimvlxrlxguvabgrlbkgquabgBmugUxtwbrvlgwzruaba
bko gMuzk kbsagbmvbgpzkfgbmugbrfugkpgbmurzgprzabgcrlx,gqmrimgqvaguounul
bmksavl gvl gk  gtuvzagarliug(vl gbmutgamkqu gmrfgbmugupprxruagkpgvoo
bmurzgcrlxagrlgabvbsuagbvculgpzkfgbmugorpu),gbmugaslgmv gpkszgbrfua
vobuzu gmragikszau;gbmvbgbmugauvgvl gbmuguvzbmg r gvobuzlvbuotgimvlxu
rlbkgklugvlkbmuz;gbmvbgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgbmugqkzo gragsl ubuzfrlu ;
Vzrabkbougvl gIriuzkg.kbmgavtgbmugavfu;gvl gakfugvfklxabgsagvzugkp
kwrlrklgbmvbgrbgmvag.uulgpzkfgvoogubuzlrbt,gragfkzbvo,gvl gzuluqu gvxvrl
.tgaunuzvognriraarbs ua;givoorlxgAkokfklgvl gRavrvmgbkgqrbluaa;gbkgunv u
bmkaugkwwkarbrkla,gbmvbgXk gmvagkliug.uulgvgizuvbkzgqrbmksbgvgizuvbszu;
bmvbgmugmvagmv glkbmrlxgbkg k,gbmvbgmugxkbgzr gkpgbmvbgr ouluaag.t
wsbbrlxgmragmvl gbkgbmragqkzc;gvl gbmvbgiklauesulbotgmugragas.yuibgbk
imvlxujgRlgbmugfkabgpvfksagkpgbmugXzuucgaimkkoagbmugqkzo gragbvculgpkzgv
xk ,gfv ug.tgvlkbmuzgxk gxzuvbuzgbmvlgmu,gvl gikfwkau gkpgvg.k t,gvl gv
aksogprhu grlgmragiulbzu,gvl g rovbrlxgmrfauopg.tgfsarivoglsf.uzagbk
mragirzisfpuzuliu;g rnrlu,grlprlrbuotgmvwwt,gvl grlprlrbuotgxzuvb,
rlprlrbuotgqraugvl gubuzlvo;grlgmrfgvzugkbmuzgxk a,gbmugauv,gbmuguvzbm,
bmugabvza,gqmkgulbuzbvrlgklugvlkbmuzgqrbmgvlgmvzfklrksagvl gwuzwubsvo
vxrbvbrklgvl g rnrlug vliu,gakfubrfuagfuubrlx,gakfubrfuagzubrzrlxgpzkf
klugvlkbmuz;gikliuvorlxgvl g raiknuzrlxgbmufauonua;gimvlxrlxgbmurz
kz uz,gklugqmroug.upkzu,gvl gvlkbmuzg.umrl jgMuzviorbsagqvagwkarbrnu
bmvbgbmugqkzo gqvagikfwkau gkpgprzu;gvl ,g.tgbmugkz uzgkpg uabrlt,
qvagklug vtgbkg.ugulpovfu gvl giklasfu grlgprzu,gvl gbmulgbkg.ugvxvrl
zuluqu jgVl gVwsoursagavtagkpgful:g_Arxroovbrfgfkzbvoua,gislibrf
wuzwubsrj_g“Bmvbgbmutgvzugfkzbvogrlgwvzbrisovz,gvl grffkzbvogrl
xuluzvoj”gVouhvl uzgqzrbgbkgmragfkbmuzgbmuglvzzvbrklgkpgvlgUxtwbrvl
wzruab,g zvqlgpzkfgbmurzgfklsfulba,gbuabrptrlxgbmugvlbresrbtgkpgbmvb
lvbrklgbkg.ugrlprlrbu,gvl gikfwzrarlxgbmug.rzbmgvl gwzkxzuaagkpgkbmuz
ikslbzruajgIriuzkgvl g rk kzsagavtgbmvbgrlgbmurzgbrfugbmugImvo uuagcuwb
vgzuxrabuzgkpgpkszgmsl zu gbmksavl gvl gk  gtuvza,gVzrabkbou,gWorlt,
vl gkbmuza,gbmvbgDkzkvabuzgpokszramu garhgbmksavl gtuvzag.upkzugWovbk’a
brfujgWovbkgavtagbmvbgbmutgkpgbmugirbtgkpgAvragmvnugzuikz agrlgqzrbrlx
kpgurxmbgbmksavl gtuvza;gvl gbmvbgbmugirbtgkpgVbmulagqvag.srobgv
bmksavl gtuvzag.upkzugbmugavr girbtgkpgAvra;gUwriszsa,gbmvbgvbgbmugavfu
brfugbmrlxagvzugmuzugrlgbmugwkabszugqugauu,gbmutgvzugvorcugvl grlgbmu
avfugfvlluzgrlgaunuzvogkbmuzgqkzo a;gqmrimgmugqkso gmvnug uornuzu gqrbm
xzuvbuzgvaaszvliu,gmv gmugauulgbmugarfrorbs ugvl giklikz vliugkpgbmugluq
 raiknuzu gqkzo gkpgbmugQuabgRl ruagqrbmgksza,gwzuaulbgvl gwvab,grlgak
fvltgabzvlxuguhvfwouaj

Rlguvzluab,giklar uzrlxgqmvbgragikfugbkgkszgclkqou xugpzkfgbmugikszau
kpgbmragbuzzuabzrvogwkorbt,gRgmvnugkpbulgqkl uzu gbkgauugrlgakgnvabgv
 rabvliugkpgwoviuagvl gbrfuagasimgvgikliszzuliugkpgakgxzuvbgvglsf.uzgkp
wkwsovzgvl gqro gkwrlrkla,gvl gkpgavnvxugfvlluzagvl g.uorupa,gqmrimg.t
lkgfuvlagauufgbkgwzkiuu gpzkfgkszglvbszvogfu rbvbrkljgBmugmsfvlgfrl gra
vgxzuvbgqkzcuzgkpgfrzvioua!g.sbgbmragzuovbrklgmva,gfkzuknuz,gRgclkq
lkbgqmvbgkpguhbzvkz rlvztgrlgrb;g‘bragpksl gbkg.ugrlglvfua,gvoak,gvl gv
bmksavl gkbmuzgbmrlxa;gpkzgbmutgpksl glvbrklagbmuzug(bmvb,gpkzgvsxmbgqu
clkq,glunuzgmuvz gkpgsa)gqmuzugirzisfirarklgqvagrlgsau;gqmuzugbmuzugquzu
abvbuagvl gxzuvbgirnrogxknuzlfulbagfvrlbvrlu g.tgqkfulgklot,gqrbmksb
ful;gqmuzugkszgpvabagvl gOulbgquzugzuwzuaulbu ,gbkgqmrimgqvagv  u 
v.abrluliugpzkfgqkful;gqmuzugkszgizkaauagquzugaunuzvogqvtagrlgzuwsbu;
muzugbmutgquzugfv ugsaugkpgbkgmklkszgvl gv kzlgbmurzgauwsobszua,gbmuzu
bmutgquzuguzuibu ,gvl gwvzbrisovzotgbmvbgkpgAbgVl zuq,gbkgwzkbuib
bmufauonuagpzkfglkibszlvognrarkla,gvl gbkgovtgswklgbmugizv ouagkp
rlpvlbagvxvrlabgulimvlbfulba;guoauqmuzugbmuzugqvagpksl gklugkpgqkk ,
kpgnuztgxzuvbgmurxmb,gqmrimgqvagv kzu gpkzgbmugxk gkpgzvrl,gvl gbmra
vgxzuvbgqvtgrlgbmugrlbuzrkz;gbmuzugqvagauulgvlguhwzuaagrfvxugkpgksz
wulvliugwzruaba,gbmugsaugkpgfrbzua,gbmugiuor.vitgkpgwzruaba,gbmugvzb
kpg rnrlvbrklg.tgbmugulbzvroagkpgavizrpriu g.uvaba,gv.abrluliugpzkfgvoo
akzbagkpgpouamgvl gpramgrlgbmurzg rub,gbmugfvlluzgkpgwzruabagkpprirvbrlx
rlgvgwvzbrisovzgvl glkbgvgnsoxvzgovlxsvxu;gvl gbmragpvlit,gbmvbgbmu
przabgxk gqvag zrnulgvqvtg.tgvgauikl ,gmragtkslxuzg.zkbmuz;gbmvbgbmut
quzugizuvbu gqrbmgvoogakzbagkpgluiuaavzruagvl giklnulruliua,gqmrimgmvnu
arliug.uulgrlgvg uxzuugbvculgpzkfgbmufgpkzgbmurzgarla,gbmurzgbuzzrbkzt
imvlxu ,gvl gbmurzglvbszvogikl rbrklgfv ugqkzau;gbmvbgbmutgquzugkp
ko gknuzqmuofu g.tgbmugrlsl vbrklgkpgqvbuzgpzkfgmuvnul;gbmvbg.sbgpuq
pvfroruaguaivwu ,gqmkgzubrzu grlbkgivnuagklgmrxmgfkslbvrla,gbmugfksbma
kpgqmrimgbmutgabkwwu gakgbmvbgbmugqvbuzagikso glkbgxubgrl,gmvnrlxgamsb
sw,gbkxubmuzgqrbmgbmufauonua,gaunuzvogakzbagkpgvlrfvoa;gbmvbgqmulgbmut
wuziurnu gbmugzvrlgbkgiuvaugbmutgaulbgksbg kxa,gqmrimgzubszlrlxgiouvl
vl gqub,gbmutgys xu gbmvbgbmugqvbuzgqvaglkbgfsimgv.vbu ;gvpbuzqvz a
aul rlxgksbgkbmuza,gvl gauurlxgbmufgzubszlg rzbt,gbmutgraasu gksbgbk
zuwukwougbmugqkzo ,gqmrimgbmutgpksl gklotgpsoogkpgauzwulbajgRlgklugwoviu
qugfubgqrbmgbmug.uorupgkpgvg vtgkpgys xfulb;grlakfsimgbmvbgbmutgquzu
fvznuooksaotg rawouvau gvbgbmugAwvlrvz agpkzg raikfwkarlxgbmug.kluagkp
bmug uv ,grlgzrporlxgbmugauwsobszuagpkzgzrimua,gavtrlxgbmvbgbmkaug.klua
akg rakz uzu gikso glkbguvarotgzuykrl;gbmugbzvpprig.tguhimvlxu,gvl glk
kbmuzgqvt;gpvrzagvl gfvzcubagpkzgbmvbgul ;g qvzpagvl g upkzfu gwukwou
pkzgbmugkzlvfulbgkpgbmugbv.ouagkpgwzrliua;gbmugsaugkpgpvoiklzt,
viikz rlxgbkgbmuglvbszugkpgbmurzgmvqca;gbtzvllrivogas.ar rua;glriubtgrl
xvz ula;g vlirlx,gbsf.orlxgbzrica,gfsarigkpgrlabzsfulba,gikvbagkpgvzfa,
bullra-ikszba,g riugvl gokbbuzrua,gqmuzurlgbmutgvzugakfubrfuagakguvxuz
vl gmkbgvagbkgabvcugbmufauonuagvl gbmurzgor.uzbt;gwmtari,glkgkbmuzqrau
bmvlg.tgimvzfa;gbmugqvtgkpgqzrbrlxgrlgitwmuz;gbmug.uorupgkpgklotgklu
przabgfvl,gbmugpvbmuzgkpgvooglvbrkla;gbmugv kzvbrklgkpgklugXk ,gqmk
pkzfuzotgornu gvgfvlgrlgwuzpuibgnrzxrlrbt,gpvabrlx,gvl gwulrbuliu,
wzuvimrlxgbmugovqagkpglvbszu,gvl gbmugiuzufklruagkpgzuorxrkl,gvl gbmvb
nvlramu gpzkfgbmugqkzo gqrbmksbgvglvbszvog uvbm;gbmugbmukztgkpgxrvlba;
bmugisabkfgkpgfvcrlxgbmufauonuag zslcgqrbmgbmurzg.unuzvxua,gvl g zrlcrlx
bkgbmugsbfkab;gzuorxrksagkzlvfulbagwvrlbu gqrbmg.kluagvl g uv gful’a
acsooa;gaszworiua,gmkotgqvbuzgawzrlcou ;gqrnuagvl gauznvlba,gqmkgwzuaulb
bmufauonuagqrbmgufsovbrkl,g.szlbgvl grlbuzzu gqrbmgbmug uv gmsa.vl gkz
fvabuz;gvgovqg.tgqmrimgbmuguo uabgasiiuu agbkgvoogbmuguabvbu,glk
wvzbg.urlxgoupbgpkzgbmugtkslxuzg.sbgk.u ruliu;gbmugisabkfgbmvb,gswkl
wzkfkbrklgbkgvgiuzbvrlgkppriugkpgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbt,gbmugwzkfkbu gragbk
bvcugswklgmrfgvgluqglvfu,gvl gbkgouvnugbmvbgqmrimgmugmv g.upkzu;gvlkbmuz
bkgabzuqgorfugswklgbmugcluugkpgbmugluq-.kzlgimro ,gqrbmgbmuaugqkz a:

“Pzkfg sabgbmksguvzluab,gvl gbkg sabgbmksgfsabgzubszl;”gvagvoakgbmugvzb
kpgvsxsztjgBmugnvrlgamv kqagkpgkszgzuorxrkl,gqmrimgvzugk.auznv.ougrl
akfugkpgbmuauguhvfwoua,gvzugbuabrfklruagkpgrbag rxlrbtgvl g rnrlrbtjgRb
raglkbgklotgrlgakfugakzbgrlarlsvbu grlbkgvoogbmugrlpr uoglvbrklagklgbmra
ar ugkpgbmugqkzo ,g.tgvgiuzbvrlgrfrbvbrkl,g.sbgrlgbmuaug.vz.vzrvla
voak,gvag.tgvgikffklgvl gaswuzlvbszvogrlawrzvbrkl;gpkzgqugprl gbmuzugbmu
.uorupgkpgwszxvbkzt,g.sbgkpgvgluqgpkzf;gbmvbgqmrimgqugxrnugbkgbmugprzu
bmutgxrnugbkgbmugiko ,gvl grfvxrlugbmvbgaksoagvzugwszxu gvl gwslramu g.t
bmugzrxkszgkpgvlguhiuaarnugiko luaajgVl gbmraguhvfwougwsbagfugrlgfrl 
kpgvlkbmuzgwouvavlbg rnuzarbt;gpkzgvagbmuzugquzugbmuzugakfugwukwougqmk
 uorxmbu gbkgslfsppougbmugul agkpgbmurzgrlabzsfulba,gvl giorwwu gkpp
bmugwzuwsiugvpbuzgbmugFvmkfubvlgvl gYuqramgfvlluz;gbmuzugquzugkbmuzagqmk
fv ugakgxzuvbgiklairuliugkpgovtrlxgrbg.vzu,gbmvbgbmutgivzupsootgwszau 
rbgswgqrbmgorbbougabzrlxagbkgcuuwgbmvbgul gpzkfgwuuwrlxgrlbkgbmugvrz;
vl gkpgbmragkbmuzg rnuzarbt,gbmvbgqmuzuvagqu,gbkgmklkszgcrlxagvl 
puabrnvoa,gwsbgklgbmug.uabgiokbmuagqugmvnu;grlgakfugzuxrkla,gbkguhwzuaa
bmurzg rawvzrbtgvl gas.fraarklgbkgbmurzgcrlx,gmragas.yuibagwzuaulb
bmufauonuag.upkzugmrfgrlgbmurzgnrouabgmv.rba,gvl gulbuzrlxgmragwvoviu,
bmzkqgakfugko gbvbbuzu gxvzfulbgknuzgbmurzg.ubbuzgvwwvzuo,gbkgbmugul 
bmvbgvoogbmugosabzugvl gkzlvfulbgfvtgakouotg.ugrlgmrfjg.sbgbkgwzkiuu :--

Rpglvbszuguliokaugqrbmrlgbmug.ksl agkpgmuzgkz rlvztgwzkxzuaagbmu
.uorupa,gys xfulba,gvl gkwrlrklagkpgful,gvagquoogvagvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa;
rpgbmutgmvnugbmurzgzunkosbrkl,gbmurzgauvakl,gbmurzg.rzbmgvl g uvbm,gorcu
iv..vxugwovlba;grpgbmugmuvnulagvxrbvbugvl gzsougbmufgvbgbmurzgwouvaszu,
qmvbgfvxrabuzrvogvl gwuzfvlulbgvsbmkzrbtg kgqugvbbzr.sbugbkgbmuf?gRp
quguhwuzrfulbvootgauugbmvbgbmugpkzfgkpgkszg.urlxag uwul agswklgbmugvrz,
swklgbmugiorfvbu,gvl gswklgbmugakro,gqmuzugqugvzug.kf,gvl glkbgklotgbmu
ikoksz,gbmugabvbszu,gbmugikfwouhrkl,gvl gbmugikslbulvliua,g.sbgfkzuknuz
bmugnuztgpvisobruagkpgbmugaksogrbauop:gUbgwovxvgik rglklgakosfgv gzk.kz
ikzwkzsf,gau gubrvfgvlrzsfgpvirb:g“Bmugiorfvbugragkpgxzuvbgupprivit,
lkbgklotgbkgbmugabzulxbmgkpg.k rua,g.sbgbkgbmvbgkpgaksoagvoak,”gavta
Nuxubrsa;gvl gbmvbgbmugxk  uaagqmkgpksl u gbmugirbtgkpgVbmulagimkau
bkgarbsvbugrbgrlgvgbufwuzvbszugkpgvrzgprbgbkgfvcugfulgwzs ulb,gva
bmugUxtwbrvlgwzruabagbko gAkokl:g_Vbmulragbulsugikosf;guhgeskgubrvf
visbrkzuagwsbvlbszgVbbrir;gizvaasfgBmu.ra;grbvesugwrlxsuagBmu.vlr,
ubgnvoulbua:_g“BmugvrzgkpgVbmulagragas.bougvl gbmrl;gqmuliugvoakgbmu
Vbmulrvlagvzugzuwsbu gbkg.ugfkzugvisbu;gvl gvbgBmu.uagfkzugxzkaagvl 
bmric;gqmuzupkzugbmugBmu.vlagvzugokkcu gswklgvagfkzugmuvnt-qrbbu gvl 
fkzugabzklxj”gRlgasimgakzbgbmvb,gvagpzsrbagvl gvlrfvoagxzkqg rppuzulb,
fulgvzugvoakgfkzugkzgouaagqvzorcu,gysab,gbufwuzvbu,gvl g kirou;gmuzu
xrnulgbkgqrlu,guoauqmuzugbkgbmupbgkzgsliouvlluaa;gmuzugrliorlu gbk
aswuzabrbrkl,guoauqmuzugbkgsl.uorup;grlgklugwoviugbkgor.uzbt,grlgvlkbmuz
bkgauznrbs u;givwv.ougkpgklugairuliugkzgkpgklugvzb,g soogkzgrlxulrksa,
k.u rulbgkzgfsbrlksa,gxkk gkzg.v ,gviikz rlxgvagbmugwoviugqmuzugbmut
vzugauvbu grliorluagbmuf;gvl gvaasfugvgluqgikfwouhrkl,grpgzufknu ,gorcu
bzuua,gqmrimgqvagbmugzuvaklgqmtgItzsagqkso glkbgxzvlbgbmugWuzarvla
ouvnugbkgesrbgbmurzgzksxmgvl gizvxxtgikslbztgbkgzufknugbkgvlkbmuz
fkzugwouvavlbgvl gunul,gavtrlx,gbmvbgpuzbrougvl gbul uzgakroagfv u
fulguppufrlvbugvl gakpbjgRpgqugauugklugqmrougklugvzbgvl gklug.uorup
pokszram,gvl gvlkbmuzgqmrougvlkbmuz,gbmzksxmgakfugiuouabrvogrlposuliu;
asimgvlgvxugbkgwzk siugasimglvbszua,gvl gbkgrliorlugfvlcrl gbkgasimgvl 
asimgvgwzkwularkl,gbmugawrzrbagkpgfulgklugqmrougxvtgvl gvlkbmuzgxzvt,
orcugkszgpruo a,gqmvbg.uikfuagkpgvoogbmkaugprlugwzuzkxvbrnuagqugak
akkbmugkszauonuagqrbmvo?gAuurlxgbmvbgvgqraugfvlgfvtg.ugfrabvcul,gvl gv
msl zu gfulgvl gvgmsl zu glvbrkla,glvt,gbmvbgunulgmsfvlglvbszu
rbauop,gvagqug.uorunu,gragfvltgvxuagqr ugrlgklugbmrlxgkzgvlkbmuz,gqmvb
vaaszvliuagmvnugqugbmvbgamugamkso giuvaugbkg.ugfrabvcul,gkzgbmvbgrlgbmra
nuztgvxugkpgkszagamugraglkbgak?

Fubmrlcagbmvbgvfklxabgkbmuzgbuabrfklruagkpgkszgrf.uirorbt,gbmragksxmb
lkbgbkg.ugpkzxkbbul,gbmvbgfvlgivllkb,g.tgmragkqlgqramgvl g uarzu,gprl 
ksbgqmvbgmugqvlba;gbmvbglkbgrlgpzsrbrklgklot,g.sbgrlgrfvxrlvbrklgvl 
qram,gqugivllkbgvxzuugv.ksbgqmvbgqugqkso gmvnugbkgavbraptgvl giklbulb
sajgOubgsagouvnugrbgbkgkszgkqlgbmksxmbgbkgisbgksbgvl gfvcugswgvb
wouvaszu;grbgivllkbgakgfsimgvagiknubgqmvbgragwzkwuzgpkzgrb,gvl gavbrapt
rbauop:--


ggggggEsr gulrfgzvbrklugbrfufsa,
gggVsbgiswrfsa?gEsr gbvrlg uhbzkgwu ugiklirwra,gsbgbu
gggIklvbsaglklgwklrbuvb,gnkbresugwuzvibr?

gggggg“Pkzgqmvb,gqrbmgzuvakl,g kgqugawuvcgkzgamsl,
gggQmvbgwovl,gmkqgmvwwrotgaku’zg.uxsl,
gggBmvb,gqmulgvimrunu ,gqug kglkbgqramgsl klu?”


Vl gbmuzupkzugrbgqvagbmvbgAkizvbuagklotg.uxxu gkpgbmugxk agbmvbgbmut
qkso gxrnugmrfgqmvbgbmutgcluqgbkg.ug.uabgpkzgmrf;gvl gbmugwzrnvbu
vl gws.origwzvtuzgkpgbmugOviu ufklrvlagqvagarfwotgpkzgxkk gvl gsaupso
bmrlxa,gzupuzzrlxgbmugimkriugvl guouibrklgkpgbmufgbkgbmug raizubrklgkp
bmugAswzufugWkquz:--


ggggggIklysxrsfgwubrfsa,gwvzbsfeségshkzra;gvbgroora
gggLkbsf,gesrgwsuzr,gesvoraesugpsbszvgarbgshkz:

gggggg“QugvacgpkzgQrnuagvl gimro zul;gbmutgv.knu
gggClkqgklot,gqmulgqugmvnugbmuf,gqmvbgbmut’oogwzknu;”


vl gImzrabrvlagwzvtgbkgXk ,g“Bmtgqroog.ug klu,”gbmvbgbmutgfvtglkbgpvoo
rlbkgbmugrliklnulruliugbmugwkubgpurxlagkpgCrlxgFr vajgMugwzvtu gbk
bmugxk agbmvbgvoogmugbksimu gfrxmbg.ugbszlu grlbkgxko ;gmragwzvtuzgqva
muvz ;gmragqrlugqvagxko ,gmrag.zuv gqvagxko ,gbmugpuvbmuzagkpgmra
.u ,gmragamrzb,gmragiokbmua,gquzugvoogxko ,gakgbmvbgmugpksl gmrfauop
knuzqmuofu gqrbmgbmugpzsrbrklgkpgmrag uarzu,gvl gul kqu gqrbmgvl
rlbkouzv.oug.uluprb,gvl gqvagpvrlgbkgslwzvtgmragwzvtuzaj


ggggggVbbklrbsaglknrbvbugfvor,g rnuaesu,gfrauzesu,
gggUppsxuzugkwbâbgkwua,gub,gesægfk kgnknuzvb,gk rbj

gggggg“Vabklramu gvbgbmugabzvlxuluaagkpgbmugroo,
gggBkg.ugakgzrim,gtubgfrauzv.ougabroo;
gggMugqramuaglkqgmugikso gmragquvobmgunv u,
gggVl gmvbuagbmugbmrlxgpkzgqmrimg.upkzugmugwzvtu j”


Bkgrlabvliugrlgftauop:g.urlxgtkslx,gRg uarzu gkpgpkzbslu,gv.knugvoo
bmrlxa,gbmugkz uzgkpgAbjgFrimvuo,gqmrimgqvagbmulgbmugsbfkabg rabrlibrkl
kpgmklkszgvfklxabgbmugPzulimglk.oua,gvl gnuztgzvzujgAmugwouvavlbot
xzvbrpru gftgoklxrlx;grlabuv gkpgzvrarlxgfu,gvl gorpbrlxgfugswgpzkfgft
kqlgwoviugbkgvbbvrlgbkgrb,gamugqvagfsimgcrl uzgbkgfu;gpkzgamug.zksxmbgrb
akgokq,gvl gfv ugrbgakgimuvw,gbmvbgrbgabkkwu g kqlgbkgftgamkso uza,gvl 
okquzjgIouk.ragvl g.rbk,gBzkwmklrsagvl gVxvfu ua,gmvnrlxgzuesuabu ,gbmu
przabgkpgbmurzgxk  uaa,gbmugovabgkpgbmurzgxk ,gvgzuikfwulaugqkzbmtgkp
bmurzgwrubt,gmv g uvbmgpkzgvgzuqvz ;gakg rppuzrlxgpzkfgkszagvzugmuvnulot
kwrlrklagikliuzlrlxgqmvbgragprbgpkzgsajgXk gfrxmbgxzvlbgsagzrimua,
mklksza,gorpu,gvl gunulgmuvobm,gbkgkszgkqlgmszb;gpkzgunuztgbmrlxgbmvb
ragwouvarlxgbkgsagraglkbgvoqvtagxkk gpkzgsajgRpgmugaul agsag uvbm,gkz
vlgrlizuvaugkpgaricluaa,grlabuv gkpgvgiszu,g_Nnzxvgbsvgubg.visosa,gbssa
rwavgfugiklakovbvgaslbj_g“Bmtgzk gvl gbmtgabvppgmvnugikfpkzbu gfu,”gmu
 kuagrbg.tgbmugzsougkpgmragwzknr uliu,gqmrimg.ubbuzgvl gfkzugiuzbvrlot
 raiuzlagqmvbgragwzkwuzgpkzgsagbmvlgqugivlg k;gvl gqugksxmbgbkgbvcugrb
rlgxkk gwvzb,gvagikfrlxgpzkfgvgqraugvl gfkabgpzrul otgmvl 


ggggggArgiklarorsfgnra:
gggWuzfrbbuugrwaraguhwul uzuglsfrlr.sa,gesr 
gggIklnulrvbglk.ra,gzu.saesugarbgsbrouglkabzrajjj
gggIvzrkzguabgrooragmkfkgesvfgar.r;

gggggg“Rpgbmks’obg.ugzso’ ,gbkgbm’gxk agbmtgpkzbsluagbzsab,
gggBmurzgbmksxmbagvzugqrau,gbmurzg rawulavbrklagysabj
gggQmvbg.uabgfvtgwzkprbgkzg uorxmbgbmutgclkq,
gggVl gzuvogxkk ,gpkzgpvliru g.oraa,g.uabkq;
gggQrbmgutuagkpgwrbt,gbmutgkszgpzvrobruagaivl,
gggFkzug uvzgbkgbmuf,gbmvlgbkgmrfauop,gragfvl;”


pkzgbkgzuesrzugkpgmrfgmklkszagvl gikffvl a,gragbkgzuesrzug‘bmvbgmugfvt
bmzkqgtksgrlbkgvg.vbbou,gaubgtksgswklgvgivabgvbg riu,gkzgakfubmrlxgkp
bmugorcuglvbszu,gqmuzukpgbmugraasugragbkgtksgslclkql,gvl gbmugpzsrb
 ks.bpsoj

Bmuzugraglkg rawsbugakgamvzwgvl gnrkoulbgvfklxabgbmugwmrokakwmuza,
vagv.ksbgbmugesuabrklgkpgbmugaknuzurxlgxkk gkpgfvl;gqmuliu,g.tgbmu
ivoisovbrklgkpgNvzzk,gzkaugbqkgmsl zu gvl gurxmbt-urxmbgauibajg_Esr
vsbufg ugasffkg.klkg raaulbrb,g ugbkbâgwmrokakwmruagzvbrklug rawsbâbj_
“Pkzgqmkunuzgulbuzagrlbkgiklbzknuzatgikliuzlrlxgbmugaswzufugxkk ,
 rawsbuagswklgbmugqmkougfvbbuzgkpgwmrokakwmtj”


ggggggBzèagfrmrgiklnrnægwzkwug raaulbrzugnr ulbsz,
gggWkaiulbuagnvzrkgfsogbszlg rnuzagvgwvovbk;
gggEsr g uf?gEsr glklg uf?gZulsragbsgesk gys.ubgvobuz;
gggEsk gwubra,gr gavluguabgrlnrasfgvir sfesug sk.sa;

gggggg“Rgmvnugbmzuugxsuabagrlnrbu gbkgvgpuvab,
gggVl gvoogvwwuvzgbkgmvnugvg rppuzulbgbvabu;
gggQmvbgamvoogRgxrnugbmuf?gQmvbgamvoogRgzupsau?
gggQmvbgklug raorcuagbmugkbmuzgbqkgamvoogimkkau;
gggVl gu’ulgbmugnuztg ramgtksgorcugbmug.uab
gggRagvir gkzgrlarwr gbkgbmugzuab:”


lvbszugamkso gavtgbmugavfugbkgbmurzgiklbuabagvl g u.vbuajgAkfugavtgbmvb
kszgquoo-.urlxgoruagrlgnrzbsu,gkbmuzagrlgwouvaszu,gkbmuzagrlgas.frbbrlx
bkglvbszu;gklugrlgclkqou xu,gvlkbmuzgrlg.urlxguhufwbgpzkfgwvrl,gvlkbmuz
rlglkbgasppuzrlxgkszauonuagbkg.ugivzzru gvqvtg.tgvwwuvzvliua;gvl gbmra
pvlitgauufagbkgmvnugakfugzuovbrklgbkgbmvbgkpgbmugvlirulbgWtbmvxkzva,


ggggggLrogv frzvzr,gwzkwugzuaguabgslv,gLsfrir,
gggAkovesu,gesægwkaarbgpviuzugubgauznvzug.uvbsf:

gggggg“Lkbgbkgv frzu’agbmugklotgvzbgRgclkq
gggIvlgfvcugsagmvwwt,gvl givlgcuuwgsagak;”


qmrimgragbmug zrpbgkpgbmugWtzzmklrvlgauib;gVzrabkbougvbbzr.sbuagbmu
v frzrlxglkbmrlxgbkgfvxlvlrfrbt;gvl gVziuarovsagavr ,gbmvbgiklabvlitgvl 
vgzrxmbgrlpouhr.ougabvbugkpgys xfulbgquzugbmugbzsugxkk ,gvl giklaulb
vl gvwworivbrklgbmugarlgvl gunro;gvl gbmuzu,grbgragbzsu,grlg.urlxgbmsa
wkarbrnu,gvl guabv.oramrlxgvgiuzbvrlgvhrkf,gmugesrbbu gWtzzmklraf;gpkz
bmu’gWtzzmklrvla,gqmulgbmutgavtgbmvbgvbvzvht,gqmrimgragbmugrffk.rorbt
kpgys xfulb,gragbmugaknuzurxlgxkk ,g kglkbg uarxlgbkgawuvcgrb
vpprzfvbrnuot;g.sbgbmvbgbmugavfugfkbrklgkpgaksogqmrimgfvcuagbmufgvnkr 
wzuirwriua,gvl gbvcugamuobuzgpzkfgbmugiko ,gwzuaulbagbmufgasimgvgpvlit,
vl gfvcuagbmufgzupsaugvlkbmuzj

Mkqgfsimg kgRgqramgbmvb,gqmroabgRgornu,gurbmuzgakfugkbmuzgkzgYsabsa
Orwarsa,gbmugfkabgouvzlu gfvlglkqgornrlx,gkpgvgfkabgwkorbugvl gys rirksa
sl uzabvl rlx,gbzsotgzuauf.orlxgftgBszlu.sa,gmv g.kbmgbmugqroogvl 
muvobm,gvl gouraszugaspprirulb,givzupsootgvl giklairulbrksaotgbkgikoouib
rlbkgvgzuxrabuz,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzg rnrarklagvl giovaaua,gvagfvltgva
vzugbkg.ugpksl ,gkpgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmugvlirulbgwmrokakwmuza,gv.ksbgbmu
as.yuibgkpgkszg.urlxgvl gfvlluza,gbmurzgiklbzknuzarua,gbmugasiiuaarkl
vl gzuwsbvbrklgkpgauiba;gqrbmgbmugvwworivbrklgkpgbmugornuagkpgbmu
vsbmkzagvl gbmurzg rairwouagbkgbmurzgkqlgwzuiuwba,grlgfufkzv.ou
viir ulba,gvl gswklguhufwovztgkiivarklajgQmvbgvg.uvsbrpsogvl gsaupso
qkzcgbmvbgqkso g.u!

Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,grpgrbg.ugpzkfgkszauonuagbmvbgqugvzugbkguhbzvibgbmu
zsouagkpgkszgfvlluza,gswklgqmvbgvgiklpsarklg kgqugbmzkqgkszauonua!gPkz
bmvbgqmrimgkszgzuvaklgv nrauagsagbk,gvagbmugfkabgorcuot,gragxuluzvoot
pkzgunuztgklugbkgk.utgbmugovqagkpgmragikslbzt,gvagqvagbmugv nriugkp
Akizvbua,grlawrzu ,gvagmugavta,g.tgvg rnrlugikslauo;gvl g.tgbmvb,
qmvbgqkso grbgavt,g.sbgbmvbgkszg sbtgmvaglkgkbmuzgzsoug.sbgqmvbgra
viir ulbvo?gBzsbmgksxmbgbkgmvnugvgorcugvl gslrnuzavognravxu;grpgfvl
ikso gclkqguesrbtgvl gysabriugbmvbgmv gvg.k tgvl gvgbzsug.urlx,gmugqkso 
lkbgpubbuzgrbgbkgbmugikl rbrklagkpgbmragikslbztgkzgbmvb;grbgqkso glkbg.u
pzkfgbmugqmrfaruagkpgbmugWuzarvlagkzgRl rvlagbmvbgnrzbsugqkso gzuiurnu
rbagpkzfjgBmuzugraglkbmrlxgfkzugas.yuibgbkgwuzwubsvogvxrbvbrklgbmvl
bmugovqa;garliugRgqvag.kzl,gRgmvnugclkqlgbmkaugkpgbmugUlxoram,gksz
lurxm.ksza,gbmzuugkzgpkszgbrfuagimvlxu ,glkbgklotgrlgfvbbuzagkpgirnro
zuxrful,gqmrimgragbmugklotgbmrlxgqmuzurlgiklabvlitgfvtg.ug rawulau 
qrbm,g.sbgrlgbmugfkabgrfwkzbvlbgas.yuibgbmvbgivlg.u,glvfuot,gzuorxrkl,
vbgqmrimgRgvfgbmugfkzugbzks.ou gvl gvamvfu ,g.uivsaugrbgragvglvbrklgqrbm
qmkfgbmkaugkpgftgwzknrliugmvnugpkzfuzotgmv gakgxzuvbgpvfrorvzrbtgvl 
viesvrlbvliu,gbmvbgbmuzugtubgzufvrlagrlgftgmksaugakfugpkkbabuwagkpgksz
vlirulbgcrl zu ;gvl gmuzugqrbmgsagvbgmkfu,gRgmvnugclkqlgvgbmrlxgbmvb
qvagivwrbvogbkg.uikfugovqpso;gvl gqugbmvbgmko gkpgkbmuzagvzugorcuqrau,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugimvliugkpgqvz,grlgvgwkaar.rorbtgkpg.urlxgklug vtgpksl 
xsrobtgkpgmrxm-bzuvakl,g.kbmg rnrlugvl gmsfvl,gamkso gbmugysabriugkp
kszgvzfagpvoogrlbkgbmugwkquzgkpgrlysabriu,gvl ,gvpbuzgvgpuqgtuvza’
wkaauaarkl,gbvcugvgesrbugiklbzvztg.urlxjgMkqgikso gbmvbgvlirulbgxk gfkzu
iouvzotgviisaugbmugrxlkzvliugkpgmsfvlgclkqou xugikliuzlrlxgbmug rnrlu
.urlx,gvl gxrnugfulgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgbmurzgzuorxrklgqvag.sbgvgbmrlxgkp
bmurzgkqlgiklbzrnvliu,gsaupsogvagvg.kl gbkgbmurzgakirubt,gbmvlg uiovzrlx
vagmug r gbkgbmkaugqmkgivfugbkgmragbzrwk gpkzgrlabzsibrkl,gbmvbgunuzt
klu’agbzsugqkzamrwgqvagbmvbgqmrimgmugpksl grlgsaugrlgbmugwoviugqmuzugmu
imvliu gbkg.u?gKgXk ,gqmvbgrlprlrbugk.orxvbrklgmvnugqugbkgbmug.kslbt
kpgkszgaknuzurxlgIzuvbkz,gpkzgmvnrlxg rav.sau gkszg.uorupgpzkfgbmuau
qvl uzrlxgvl gvz.rbzvztg unkbrkla,gvl gpkzgmvnrlxgauvbu grbgswklgbmu
ubuzlvogpksl vbrklgkpgmragmkotgqkz ?g.sbgqmvbgbmulgqroogwmrokakwmuzagavt
bkgsagrlgbmragluiuaarbt?g“Bmvbgqugpkookqgbmugovqagkpgkszgikslbzt;”gbmvb
ragbkgavt,gbmragpokvbrlxgauvgkpgbmugkwrlrklagkpgvgzuws.ori,gkzgvgwzrliu,
bmvbgqroogwvrlbgksbgysabriugpkzgfugrlgvagfvltgikoksza,gvl gpkzfgrb
vagfvltgqvtagvagbmuzugvzugimvlxuagkpgwvaarklagrlgbmufauonua;gRgivllkb
asppuzgftgys xfulbgbkg.ugakgpouhr.oujgQmvbgcrl gkpgnrzbsugragbmvbgqmrim
Rgauugklug vtgrlgzuwsbu,gvl gbmvbgbk-fkzzkqgamvoog.ugrlglklu,gvl gqmrim
bmugizkaarlxgkpgvgzrnuzgfvcuagvgizrfu?gQmvbgakzbgkpgbzsbmgivlgbmvb
.u,gqmrimgbmuaugfkslbvrlagorfrbgbkgsa,gvl gfvcugvgorugbkgvoogbmugqkzo 
.utkl gbmuf?

.sbgbmutgvzugwouvavlb,gqmul,gbkgxrnugakfugiuzbvrlbtgbkgbmugovqa,gbmut
avt,gbmvbgbmuzugvzugakfugprzf,gwuzwubsvo,gvl grffknv.ou,gqmrimgbmutgivoo
lvbszvo,gbmvbgvzugrfwzrlbu grlgmsfvlgcrl g.tgbmugikl rbrklgkpgbmurzgkql
wzkwuzg.urlx;gvl gkpgbmuaugakfugzuicklgbmzuu,gakfugpksz,gakfugfkzu,gakfu
ouaa;gvgarxlgbmvbgrbgragvgfvzcgvag ks.bpsogvagbmugzuabgLkqgbmutgvzugak
slpkzbslvbu,g(pkzgqmvbgivlgRgivoogrbguoaug.sbgfrapkzbslugbmvb,gkpgak
rlprlrbugvglsf.uzgkpgovqa,gbmuzugamkso glkbg.ugpksl gklugvbgouvab
bmvbgpkzbslugvl gbmugbufuzrbtgkpgimvliugmvagasppuzu gbkg.ugslrnuzavoot
zuiurnu g.tgbmugiklaulbgkpgvooglvbrkla?)gbmutgvzu,gRgavt,gakgfrauzv.ou,
bmvbgkpgbmuaugbmzuugkzgpkszgauouibgovqa,gbmuzugraglkbgakgfsimgvagklu
bmvbgraglkbgiklbzv ribu gvl g rakqlu ,glkbgklotg.tgkluglvbrkl,g.sbg.t
fvltjgLkq,gbmugklotgorcuotgarxl,g.tgqmrimgbmutgivlgvzxsugkzgrlpuzgakfu
lvbszvogovqa,gragbmugslrnuzavorbtgkpgvwwzk.vbrkl;gpkzgqugamkso ,gqrbmksb
 ks.b,gpkookqgqrbmgvgikffklgiklaulbgbmvbgqmrimglvbszugmv gbzsotgkz vrlu 
sa;gvl glkbgklotgunuztglvbrkl,g.sbgunuztgwzrnvbugfvl,gqkso gzuaulbgbmu
pkziugvl gnrkouliugbmvbgvltgklugamkso g kgmrfgqmkgqkso gbufwbgmrfgbk
vltgbmrlxgiklbzvztgbkgbmragovqjg.sbgoubgbmufgwzk siugfugklugkpgbmra
ikl rbrkljgWzkibvxkzvagvl gVzrabkgxvnuglkgkbmuzguaauliugbkgbmugysabriu
kpgovqagbmvlgbmugvsbmkzrbtgvl gkwrlrklgkpgbmugouxraovbkz;gvl gbmvb,
bmuaugovr gvar u,gbmugmkluabgvl gbmugxkk gokabgbmurzgesvorbrua,gvl 
zufvrlu gufwbtglvfuagkpgrl rppuzulbgbmrlxa;gBmzvatfvimsa,grlgWovbk,
ragkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmuzugraglkgkbmuzgzrxmbg.sbgbmugiklnulruliugkpgbmu
aswuzrkzjgBmuzugraglkbgvltgbmrlxgqmuzurlgbmugqkzo gragakgnvzrksagvagrl
ovqagvl gisabkfa;gasimgvgbmrlxgragv.kfrlv.ougmuzugqmrimgraguoauqmuzugrl
uabuuf,gvagrlgOviu ufklg uhbuzrbtgrlgabuvorlx;gfvzzrvxuag.ubquulgluvz
zuovbrkla,gvzugivwrbvootgrlbuz ribu gvfklxabgsa;gbmutgvzuguoauqmuzugrl
mklksz:--


ggggggXulbuaguaaugpuzvlbsz,
gggRlgesr.sagubglvbkgxulrbzrh,gubglvbvgwvzulbr
gggYslxrbsz,gubgwrubvagxufrlvbkgizuairbgvfkzu;

gggggg“Bmuzugvzugakfuglvbrklagrlgbmugqkzo ,g‘bragavr ,
gggQmuzugpvbmuzag vsxmbuza,gaklagbmurzgfkbmuzagqu ;
gggVl gbmurzgvppuibrklagbmuzu.tgmrxmuzgzrau,
gggFkzugprzfgvl giklabvlbg.tgbmuaug ks.ougbrua;”


bmugfsz uzgkpgrlpvlba,gbmugfsz uzgkpgpvbmuza,gbmugikffslrbtgkpgqrnua,
bzvpprigkpgzk..uzrua,goriulaugrlgvoogakzbagkpgnkoswbsksaluaa;grlgamkzb,
bmuzugraglkbmrlxgakguhbzufugbmvbgraglkbgvookqu g.tgbmugisabkfgkpgakfu
lvbrklgkzgkbmuzj

Rbgragizu r.ougbmvbgbmuzugvzuglvbszvogovqagpkzgsa,gvagqugauugbmuf
rlgkbmuzgizuvbszua;g.sbgbmutgvzugokabgrlgsa,gbmragprlugmsfvlgzuvakl
unuztqmuzugakgrlarlsvbrlxgrbauopgbkgxknuzlgvl gikffvl ,gvagbkgamsppou
vl giklpksl gbmugpviugkpgbmrlxa,gviikz rlxgbkgrbagkqlgnvlrbtgvl 
rliklabvlit:g_Lrmrogrbvesugvfworsaglkabzsfguab;gesk glkabzsfg rik,
vzbraguab:_g“Bmuzupkzuglkbmrlxgragvltgfkzugbzsotgksza;gqmvbgqugivoogksza
.uoklxagbkgvzbj”gAs.yuibagmvnug rnuzagosabzuagvl g rnuzagiklar uzvbrkla,
vl gbmuliugbmug rnuzarbtgkpgkwrlrklagwzrlirwvootgwzkiuu a;gkluglvbrkl
iklar uzagvgas.yuibgrlgklugvawuib,gvl gabkwagbmuzu:gvlkbmuzgbvcuagrbgrl
vg rppuzulbgwkrlbgkpgnruqj

Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgkpgxzuvbuzgmkzzkzgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gbmvlgpkzgvgfvlgbkguvb
mragpvbmuz;gvl gtubgbmugwukwou,gqmkaugvlirulbgisabkfgrbgqvagakgbkg k,
okkcu gswklgrbgvagvgbuabrfkltgkpgwrubtgvl gvppuibrkl,gauucrlxgbmuzu.tgbk
xrnugbmurzgwzkxulrbkzagbmugfkabgqkzbmtgvl gmklkszv.ougauwsobszu;gabkzrlx
swgrlgbmufauonua,gvl gvagrbgquzugrlgbmurzgkqlgfvzzkq,gbmug.k rua
vl gzuoriagkpgbmurzgpvbmuza;gvl grlgakfugakzbgzuxuluzvbrlxgbmufg.t
bzvlafsbvbrklgrlbkgbmurzgornrlxgpouam,g.tgfuvlagkpglkszramfulbgvl 
 rxuabrkljgRbgraguvatgbkgiklar uzgqmvbgvgizsuobtgvl gv.kfrlvbrklgrb
fsabgmvnugvwwuvzu gbkgfulgwkaauaau gvl grf.su gqrbmgbmragalwuzabrbrkl
bkgbmzkqgbmurzgpvbmuza’gzufvrlagbkgbmugikzzswbrklgkpgbmuguvzbm,gvl gbmu
lkszramfulbgkpg.uvabagvl gqkzfaj

Otiszxsagiklar uzu grlgbmupbgbmugnrnvirbt,g rorxuliu,g.ko luaa,gvl 
 uhbuzrbtgkpgwszokrlrlxgvltgbmrlxgpzkfgkszglurxm.ksza,gvl gbmug.uluprb
bmvbgzu ksl u gbkgbmugws.origbmvbgunuztgklugamkso gokkcgfkzuglvzzkqot
bkgbmugiklauznvbrklgkpgqmvbgqvagmragkql;gvl g.uorunu gbmvb,gpzkfgbmra
 ks.ougrlabrbsbrklgkpgvaavsobrlxgvl g upul rlx,gv nvlbvxugqvagbkg.ugfv u
pkzgfrorbvztg rairworlug(qmrimgqvagbmugwzrlirwvogairuliugvl gnrzbsugbk
qmrimgmugqkso grlszugbmvbglvbrkl),gkpgxzuvbuzgiklar uzvbrklgbmvlgbmu
 rakz uzgvl grlysabriugkpgbvcrlxgvlkbmuzgfvl’agxkk aj

 rkltarsa,gbmugbtzvlb,gkppuzu gWovbkgvgzk.ugkpgbmugWuzarvlgpvamrkl,
oklx,g vfvacu ,gvl gwuzpsfu ;gWovbkgzupsau grb,gavtrlx,g“Bmvbg.urlx
.kzlgvgfvl,gmugqkso glkbgqroorlxotg zuaagmrfauopgrlgqkful’agiokbmua;”
g.sbgVzrabrwwsagviiuwbu grbgqrbmgbmragvlaquz,g“Bmvbglkgviiksbzufulbgikso 
ikzzswbgvgimvabugikszvxuj”gMragpzrul agzuwzkvimrlxgmrfgqrbmgfuvlluaagkp
awrzrb,gpkzgovtrlxgrbglkgfkzugbkgmuvzbgbmvbg rkltarsagmv gawrbgrlgmra
pviu,g“Pramuzful,”gavr gmu,g“asppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ug zulimu gqrbmgbmu
qvnuagkpgbmugauvgpzkfgmuv gbkgpkkbgbkgivbimgvgxs xuklj”g rkxuluagqva
qvamrlxgiv..vxua,gvl gauurlxgmrfgwvaag.t,g“Rpgbmksgikso abgornugkl
iv..vxu,”gavr gmu,g“bmksgqkso abglkbgpvqlgswklgvgbtzvlb;”gbkgqmkf
Vzrabrwwsagzuworu ,g“Vl grpgbmksgcluquabgmkqgbkgornugvfklxabgful,gbmks
qkso abglkbg.ugqvamrlxgiv..vxuaj”gBmsagzuvaklgprl agvwwuvzvliuagpkz
 rnuzaguppuiba;g‘bragvgwkbgqrbmgbqkguvzagbmvbgvgfvlgfvtgbvcug.tgbmu
zrxmbgkzgoupb:--


gggggg.uoosf,gkgbuzzvgmkawrbv,gwkzbva:
ggg.uookgvzfvlbszguelr;g.uoosfgmæigvzfulbvgfrlvlbszj
gggAu gbvfulgr ufgkorfgiszzsgasiiu uzugasubr
gggEsv zswu ua,gubgpzulvgysxkgiklikz rvgpuzzu;
gggAwuaguabgwviraj

gggggg“Qvz,gqvzgragbmzuvbulu gpzkfgbmragpkzurxlgxzksl 
ggg(Ftgpvbmuzgizru ),gqmuzugqvzorcugabuu agvzugpksl j
gggTub,garliugzuiovrfu ,gbkgimvzrkbagbmutgas.frb,
gggVl g.ul gbkgabs..kzlgtkcua,gvl gimvfwgbmug.rb,
gggWuviugfvtgasiiuu gbkgqvzj”


Akokl,g.urlxgouibszu g.tgmragpzrul aglkbgbkgamu gwkquzouaagvl 
slwzkprbv.ougbuvzagpkzgbmug uvbmgkpgmragakl,g“Rbgragpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgbmvb
Rgbmugfkzugysabotgamu gbmuf,”gavr gmu,g“.uivsaugbmutgvzugwkquzouaa
vl gslwzkprbv.ouj”gAkizvbua’agqrpuguhvawuzvbu gmuzgxzrupg.tgbmra
irzisfabvliu:g“Km,gmkqgslysabotg kgbmuaugqricu gys xuagwsbgmrfgbk
 uvbm!”g“Qmt,”gzuworu gmu,g“mv abgbmksgzvbmuzgbmutgamkso guhuisbugfu
ysabot?”gQugmvnugkszguvzag.kzu ;gbmugXzuucagokkcu gswklgbmvbgvagvgfvzc
kpgaovnuztjgQugzubrzugrlgwzrnvbugbkgulyktgkszgqrnua;gbmugRl rvlag kgrb
rlgws.orijgBmugAitbmrvlagrffkovbu gabzvlxuzagrlgbmurzgbufwoua;guoauqmuzu
bufwouagquzugvgzupsxu:--


ggggggRl ugpszkzgnsoxr,gesk glsfrlvgnrirlkzsf
gggK rbgesraesugokisa,gisfgakokagizu vbgmv.ul ka
gggUaaug uka,geskagrwaugikorbj

gggggg“Bmsag‘bragbmugwkwsovzgpsztgbmvbgizuvbua
gggBmvbgvoogbmurzglurxm.ksza’gxk aguvimglvbrklgmvbua;
gggUvimgbmrlcagrbagkqlgbmugxulsrlu;grlgvgqkz ,
gggBmugklotg urbruagbkg.ugv kzu j”


Rgmvnugmuvz gkpgvgys xugqmk,gikfrlxgswklgvgamvzwgiklporibg.ubqrhb
.vzbkosagvl gVo sa,gvl gakfugwkrlbgiklbzknuzbu gqrbmgfvltgiklbzvzrubrua,
qzrbgrlgbmugfvzxrlgkpgmrag.kkc,g“vgesuabrklgpkzgvgpzrul ;”gbmvbgragbk
avt,gbmvbgbzsbmgqvagbmuzugakgiklbzknuzbu gvl g rawsbu gbmvbgrlgvgorcu
ivsaugmugfrxmbgpvnkszgqmrimgkpgbmugwvzbruagmugbmksxmbgprbg‘Bqvagklotgpkz
qvlbgkpgqrbgbmvbgmug r glkbgqzrbug“vgesuabrklgpkzgvgpzrul ”gbmzksxmksbj
Bmugv nkivbuagvl gys xuagkpgkszgbrfuagprl g.rvagulksxmgrlgvoogivsaua
bkgviikffk vbugbmufgbkgqmvbgbmutgbmufauonuagbmrlcgprbjgRlgakgrlprlrbu
vgairuliu,g uwul rlxgswklgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgakgfvltgkwrlrkla,gvl gak
vz.rbzvztgvgas.yuib,grbgivllkbg.ug.sbgbmvbgkpgluiuaarbtgvlguhbzufu
iklpsarklgkpgys xfulbagfsabgvzrau;gbmuzugragmvz otgvltgasrbgakgiouvz
qmuzurlgkwrlrklag kglkbgnuztgfsimg rppuz;gqmvbgklugikszbgmvag ubuzfrlu 
klugqvtgvlkbmuzg ubuzfrluagesrbugiklbzvzt,gvl grbauopgiklbzvztgbkgbmvb
vbgvlkbmuzgbrfujgKpgqmrimgqugauugnuztgpzuesulbguhvfwoua,gkqrlxgbkgbmvb
wzvibriugv frbbu gvfklxabgsa,gvl gqmrimgragvgfvznuooksag.ouframgbkgbmu
iuzufklrksagvsbmkzrbtgvl gosabzugkpgkszgysabriu,gkpglkbgv.r rlxg.tgklu
aulbuliu,g.sbgzsllrlxgpzkfgys xugbkgys xu,gvl gikszbgbkgikszb,gbkg uir u
klugvl gbmugavfugivsauj

Vagbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgwmrokakwmrivogkwrlrklagikliuzlrlxgnriugvl gnrzbsu,
‘braglkbgluiuaavztgbkg.ugrlarabu gswkl;gbmuzurlgvzugpksl gfvltgkwrlrkla
bmvbgvzug.ubbuzgikliuvou gbmvlgws.oramu gbkgquvcgfrl ajgVziuarovsagavr ,
“Bmvbgrlgnuluztgrbgqvaglkgfvbbuzgqmuzu,gkzgqrbmgqmkf,grbgqvagikffrbbu :”
g_Ubgk.aiiulvagnkoswbvbua,garglvbszvgzuesrzrb,glklgxuluzu,gvsbgokik,gvsb
kz rlu,gau gpkzfv,gkbvbu,gyrxszâ,gfubrul vagUwriszsagwsbvbjjjjglugvfkzua
esr ufgavlibkagvgavwrulbugvorulkaguaaugvz.rbzvlbszjjjjgEsuuzvfsa,gv 
esvfgsaesugkbvbufgysnuluagvfvl rgarlbj_g“Vl gk.aiulugwouvaszua,grp
lvbszugzuesrzuagbmuf,”gUwriszsagbmrlca,g“vzuglkbgbkg.ugfuvaszu gurbmuz
.tgzviu,gcrl ,gwoviu,gkzgzvlc,g.sbg.tgvxu,gamvwu,gvl g.uvsbtjjjjgLurbmuz
vzugavizu goknuagbmksxmbgbkg.ugpkzurxlgbkgqraugful;jjjgqugvzugbk
rlesrzugbroogqmvbgvxugtkslxgfulgvzugbkg.ugoknu j”gBmuaugovabgbqkgabkrivo
eskbvbrkla,gvl gbmugzuwzkvimgbmvbg riævzimsagbmzuqgrlbkgbmugbuubmgkp
Wovbkgmrfauop,gswklgbmragviikslb,gamkqgmkqgfsimgbmugaksl uabgwmrokakwmt
rl soxuagoriulauagvl guhiuaauagnuztgzufkbugpzkfgikffklgisabkfj

Ovqag uzrnugbmurzgvsbmkzrbtgpzkfgwkaauaarklgvl gisabkfjg‘Brag vlxuzksa
bkgbzviugbmufg.vicgbkgbmurzg.uxrllrlx;gbmutgxzkqgxzuvb,gvl gullk.ou
bmufauonua,gorcugkszgzrnuza,g.tgzsllrlxgkl;g.sbgpkookqgbmufgswqvz gbk
bmurzgaksziu,g‘brag.sbgvgorbbougawzrlx,gaivziug raiuzlv.ou,

bmvbgaquooagbmsa,gvl gbmsagpkzbrpruagrbauopg.tgxzkqrlxgko jg kg.sb
iklasobgbmugvlirulbgiklar uzvbrklagbmvbgxvnugbmugprzabgfkbrklgbkgbmra
pvfksagbkzzulb,gakgpsoogkpg rxlrbt,gvqu,gvl gzunuzuliu,gtksgqroogprl 
bmufgakgorxmbgvl gquvcgbmvbgrbgraglkgqkl uzgrpgbmuaugwukwou,gqmkgqurxm
vl gzu siugunuztgbmrlxgbkgzuvakl,gvl gqmkgv frbglkbmrlxg.tgvsbmkzrbt,gkz
swklgbzsab,gmvnugbmurzgys xfulbagkpbulgnuztgzufkbu,gvl g rppuzrlxgpzkf
bmkaugkpgbmugws.orijgRbgraglkgqkl uzgrpgwukwou,gqmkgbvcugbmurzgwvbbuzl
pzkfgbmugprzabgrfvxugkpglvbszu,gamkso grlgfkabgkpgbmurzgkwrlrklagaquznu
pzkfgbmugikffklgwvbm;gva,gpkzguhvfwou,gpuqgvfklxabgbmufgqkso gmvnu
vwwzknu gkpgbmugabzribgikl rbrklagkpgkszgfvzzrvxua,gvl gfkabgkpgbmuf
mvnug.uulgpkzgmvnrlxgqrnuagrlgikffkl,gvl gqrbmksbgk.orxvbrkl;gbmutgqkso 
zupsaugkszgiuzufklruajgImztarwwsagavr ,g“Bmvbgvgwmrokakwmuzgqkso gfvcu
vg kdulgakfuzavsoba,gvtu,gvl gqrbmksbgmrag.zuuimua,gpkzgvg kdulgkp
kornuaj”gBmvbgwmrokakwmuzgqkso gmvz otgmvnugv nrau gIorabmuluagbkgmvnu
zupsau gMrwwkior uagbmugpvrzgVxvzrabvgmrag vsxmbuz,gpkzgmvnrlxgauulgmrf
abvl gklgmragmuv gswklgvgbv.oujgFubzkiouagakfuqmvbgrl raizuubotg.zkcu
qrl g.vicqvz agqmrougrlg rawsbvbrkl,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvgxzuvbgvs rbkzt
rlgmragaimkko,gvl gcuwbgmrfauopgmr grlgmragkqlgmksaugpkzgamvfu,gbroo
Izvbuagikfrlxgbkgnrarbgmrf,gvl gv  rlxgbkgmragiklakovbrklagvl gzuvakla
bmuguhvfwougkpgmragkqlgor.uzbt,g.tgpvoorlxgbkgbztgqrbmgmrfgqmkgamkso 
aksl gfkab,giszu gmrfgkpgbmvbgaizswou,gvl gqrbmvog zuqgmrfgbkgmragkql
abkrivogauib,gfkzugpzuugbmvlgbmvbgfkzugzuauznu gklugkpgbmugWuzrwvbubria,
kpgqmrimgmugmv g.uulgbroogbmuljgBmvbgqmrimgqugivoog uiulit,glkbgbkg vzu
bkg kgbmvbgrlgws.origqmrimgrag uiulbgulksxmgbkg kgrlgwzrnvbu,gbmugAbkria
ivoogpkwwuzt;gvl gbkgfrliugrb,gvl gbkg.ugakgfk uabgvagbkgikliuvogvl 
 rakqlgqmvbglvbszu,gisabkf,gvl gkszg uarzuagws.oramgvl gwzkiovrfgkpgksz
vibrkla,gbmutgzuwsbu gvgnriujgBmugkbmuzgbmksxmbgrbgqvagbkgsl uznvosugbmu
ftabuzruagkpgNulsagbkg zvqgbmufgksbgkpgbmugwzrnvbugkzvbkzt,gbkguhwkau
bmufgbkgbmugnruqgkpgbmugwukwou;gvl gbmvbgbkg.zrlxgbmufgksbgpzkfg.umrl 
bmugiszbvrlgqvagbkg u.vaugbmufjgFk uabtgragvgbmrlxgkpgqurxmb;gauizuit,
zuauznvbrkl,gvl girzisfawuibrkl,gvzugwvzbagkpguabuufjgWouvaszug r 
nuztgrlxulrksaotgqmul,gsl uzgbmugfvacgkpgnrzbsu,gamugasu glkbgbkg.u
wzkabrbsbu grlgbmugkwulgabzuuba,gbzk  ulgsl uzgpkkb,gvl guhwkau gbk
bmugws.orignruq,gqvlbrlxgbmug rxlrbtgvl giklnulruliugkpgmuzgwzrnvbu
iv.rlubajgMuliugakfugavtgbmvbgbkgwsbg kqlgws.origabuqagraglkbgklotgbk
 rawuzaugpkzlrivbrklgrlbkgvoogwoviua,gbmvbgqvagiklprlu gbkgklu,g.sb
fkzuknuz,g.tgbmug rpprisobt,gbkgrlirbugqro gvl gr ougwukwougbkgbmra
nriu:--


ggggggFkimsaguagVspr ræ,gesrgnrz,
gggAiænrlu,gpsrabr:
gggZrnvoragpsuzvbgesrgbssa,groougnrzguabj
gggIszgvorélvgwoviubgbr.r,gesægbsvglklgwoviubgshkz?
gggLsfesr gauiszsaglklgwkbuagvzzrxuzu?


Bmraguhwuzruliug rnuzarpruagrbauopgrlgvgbmksavl guhvfwoua:--


ggggggLsoosagrlgsz.ugpsrbgbkbâ,gesrgbvlxuzugnuooub
gggShkzufgxzvbra,gIæirorvlu,gbsvf,
ggg sfgorisrb:gau glsli,gwkarbragisabk r.sa,grlxula
gggBsz.vgpsbsbkzsfguabjgRlxulrkasagmkfkguaj


Vgwmrokakwmuzg.urlxgbvculgrlgbmugnuztgvib,gvl gvacu gqmvbgmugqvag krlx,
iko otgzuworu ,g“Rgvfgwovlbrlxgfvl;”glkgfkzug.osamrlxgbkg.ugakgivsxmb
bmvlgrpgbmutgmv gpksl gmrfgwovlbrlxgxvzorij

Rbgra,gRgaswwkau,gksbgkpgbul uzluaagvl gzuawuibgbkgbmuglvbszvogfk uabt
kpgfvlcrl gbmvbgvgxzuvbgvl gzuorxrksagvsbmkzgragkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmragvib
ragakgluiuaavzrotgk.orxu gbkgwzrnvitgvl gamvfugbmvbgmugivllkbgwuzasv u
mrfauopgbmuzugikso g.ugvltgv.akosbugwuzpkzfvliugrlgbmkaugrfws ulb
uf.zviuagkpgbmugItlria,g.sbgbmvbgbmutgiklbulbu gbmufauonuagbkgzuwzuaulb
ovairnrksagxuabszuagklot,gbkgfvrlbvrlgbmugrfws uliugkpgbmurzgaimkko’a
wzkpuaarkl;gvl gbmvb,gbkguyuibgqmvbgamvfugmv gqrbmmuo gvl gzuabzvrlu ,
rbgqvagvpbuzqvz gluiuaavztgpkzgbmufgbkgqrbm zvqgrlbkgbmugamv ujg.sbgmu
mv glkbgbmkzksxmotguhvfrlu gbmurzg u.vsimua;gpkzg rkxulua,gwovtrlxgbmu
.uvabgqrbmgmrfauopgrlgws.ori,gqramu ,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvoogbmvbgavq
mrf,gbmvbgmugikso gproogmrag.uootg.tgbmvbguhuziraujgBkgbmkaugqmkgvacu 
mrfgqmtgmug r glkbgprl gksbgvgfkzugikffk rksagwoviugbkguvbgrlgbmvl
rlgbmugkwulgabzuub,gmugfv ugvlaquz,g“.uivsaugRgvfgmslxztgrlgbmugkwul
abzuubj”gBmugqkfulgwmrokakwmuzagqmkgfrhu gqrbmgbmurzgauib,gfrhu gvoak
qrbmgbmurzgwuzakla,grlgvoogwoviua,gqrbmksbgzuauznvbrkl;gvl gMrwwvzimrv
qvaglkbgzuiurnu grlbkgIzvbua’agakirubt,g.sbgswklgikl rbrklgbmvbgamu
amkso ,grlgvoogbmrlxa,gpkookqgbmugwzvibriugvl gisabkfagkpgmragzsouj
Bmuaugwmrokakwmuzagaubgvgxzuvbgwzriugswklgnrzbsu,gvl gzulksliugvoogkbmuz
 rairworlug.sbgbmugfkzvo;gvl gtub,grlgvoogbmurzgvibrkla,gbmutgvbbzr.sbu 
bmugaknuzurxlgvsbmkzrbtgbkgbmuguouibrklgkpgbmurzgavxu,gvl gv.knugbmu
ovqa;gvl gxvnuglkgkbmuzgisz.gbkgnkoswbsksaluaag.sbgfk uzvbrklgklot,gvl 
bmugiklauznvbrklgkpgbmugor.uzbtgkpgkbmuzaj

Muzviorbsagvl gWzkbvxkzva,gpkzvafsimgvagqrlugauufu g.rbbuzgbkgbmugaric,
vl gwouvavlbgbkgbmugaksl ,gbmugzs  uzgizkkcu grlgbmugqvbuz,gvl gabzvrxmb
qmulgksb,gvl gasimgorcugiklbzvztgvwwuvzvliuagvagvzugpksl grlgas.yuiba,
vzxsu gbmuliugbmvbgvoogas.yuibagmv ,grlgbmufauonua,gbmugivsauagkpgbmuau
vwwuvzvliua;gvl gbmuzugqvagakfug.rbbuzluaagrlgbmugqrlugqmrimgmv gakfu
atfwvbmtgqrbmgbmugaricgfvl’agbvabu,gvl gbmugzs  uzgakfug.ul rlxgesvorbt
atfwvbmrdrlxgqrbmgmrfgbmvbgokkcagswklgrbgrlgbmugqvbuz;gvl gakgkpgvoo
bmugzuab;gqmrimgragbkgavt,gbmvbgvoogragrlgvoogbmrlxa,gvl ,giklauesulbot,
lkbmrlxgrlgvltgklu;gpkz,gqmuzugvoogra,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxj

Bmragkwrlrklgwsbgfugrlgfrl gkpgbmuguhwuzruliugqugmvnugbmvbgbmuzugra
lkgaulaugkzgvawuibgkpgvltgbmrlx,gqmubmuzg.rbbuzgkzgaquub,gabzvrxmb
kzgizkkcu ,gbmvbgbmugmsfvlgfrl g kuaglkbgprl gksbgrlgbmugqzrbrlxagrb
sl uzbvcuagbkgbsf.ougknuzjgRlbkgbmugiouvluab,gwszuab,gvl gfkabgwuzpuib
qkz agbmvbgivlgwkaar.otg.u,gmkqgfvltgoruagvl gpvoarbruagmvnugqu
asxxuabu !gQmvbgmuzuatgmvaglkbgbmuzugpksl gxzksl gvl gbuabrfklt
aspprirulbgbkgfvcugrbauopguf.zviu gvl g upul u !g‘Bragpkzgbmragbmvbgbmu
vsbmkzagkpgasimguzzkzagqrooglunuzg uwvzbgpzkfgwzkkpgkpgbmugbuabrfkltgkp
bmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgqkz ajgVgwuzaklgkpg rxlrbt,gqmkgqkso gvwwzknugbk
fu,g.tgvsbmkzrbt,gbmugauvzimgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuz’agabklu,gqmuzurlgmu
qvagmuv gknuzguvzagulxvxu ,govbuotgvoouxu gbkgfugvbgouvabgprnugkzgarh
wvaavxuagkpgbmug.r.ougswklgqmrim,gmugavr ,gmugprzabgpksl u gmragvbbufwb,
pkzgbmug raimvzxugkpgmragiklairuliug(pkzgmugragvg rnrlu);gvl ,grlgbzsbm,
bmugr uvgqvaglkbgklotgwouvavlb,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gnuztgquoogviikffk vbu gbk
bmug upuliugkpgbmragprlugairuliuj

.tgbmragqvtgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpg rnrlrlxgpv.ouagragviesrzu jgBmuzugraglk
pkzbslu-buoouz,grpgqugmvnugbmragvsbmkzrbt,g.sb,grpgvgfvlgqroogbvcugbmu
wvrlagbkgbsf.ougvl gbkaa,gvl glvzzkqotgbkgwuuwgrlbkgvoogbmugpko agvl 
xokaauagkpgmragqkz a,gmugfvtgfvcugmrf,gorcugbmugAr.toa,gavtgqmvbgmu
qroojgBmuzugvzugakgfvltgqvtagkpgrlbuzwzubvbrklgbmvbgrbgqroog.ugmvz g.sb
bmvb,gurbmuzgk.oresuotgkzgrlgvg rzuibgorlu,gvlgrlxulrksagqrbgqroo
prl gksb,grlgunuztgas.yuib,gakfugvrzgbmvbgqroogauznugpkzgmragwszwkau;
bmuzupkzugqugprl gvgioks tgvl gvf.rxsksagabtougrlgakgpzuesulbgvl 
vlirulbgsaujgOubgbmugvsbmkzg.sbgfvcugmrfauopgfvabuzgkpgbmvb,gbkg.sat
wkabuzrbtgv.ksbgmragwzu ribrkla,gqmrimglkbgklotgmragkqlgwvzba,g.sbgbmu
viir ulbvogpvnkszgkpgbmugfvbbuzgrbauop,gfvtg kgpkzgmrf;gvl ,gvagbk
bmugzuab,guhwzuaagmrfauop,gqmubmuzgvpbuzgvgpkkoramgkzgvgas.bougfvlluz,
akfuqmvbgk.aiszuotgkzgiklbzv ribkzrot,g‘braglkgfvbbuz;--vglsf.uzgkp
qrba,gamvcrlxgvl garpbrlxgmrf,gqroog.zrlxgksbgvgxzuvbgfvltgaunuzvo
pkzfa,gurbmuzgviikz rlxgbkgmragfuvlrlx,gkzgikoovbuzvo,gkzgiklbzvzt,gbk
rb,gqmrimgqroogvoogzu ksl gbkgmragmklksz;gmugqroogauugmrfauopgulzrimu 
.tgbmugfuvlagkpgmrag rairwoua,gorcugbmugzuxulbagkpgikoouxuag.tgbmurz
wswroagtuvzotgwzuaulbajgBmragrbgragqmrimgmvagxrnulgzuwsbvbrklgbkgfvlt
bmrlxagkpglkgqkzbmgvbgvoo;gbmvbgmvag.zksxmbgaunuzvogqzrbrlxagrlgnkxsu,
vl gxrnulgbmufgbmugpvfugkpgiklbvrlrlxgvoogakzbagkpgfvbbuzgivlg.u
 uarzu ;gklugvl gbmugavfugbmrlxgzuiurnrlxgvgbmksavl gvl gvgbmksavl 
rfvxuagvl gnvzrksagiklar uzvbrkla;glvt,gvagfvltgvagqugwouvauj

Ragrbgwkaar.ougbmvbgMkfuzgikso g uarxlgbkgavtgvoogbmvbgqugfvcugmrf
avt,gvl gbmvbgmug uarxlu gakgfvltgvl gakgnvzrksagprxszua,gvagbmvbgbmu
 rnrlua,govq-xrnuza,givwbvrla,gwmrokakwmuza,gvl gvoogakzbagkpgful
qmkgbzuvbgkpgairuliua,gmkqgnvzrksaotgvl gkwwkarbugakunuz,gamkso 
rl rppuzulbotgeskbugmrf,gvl gaswwkzbgbmurzgvzxsfulbag.tgmragvsbmkzrbt,
vagbmugaknuzurxlgokz gvl gfvabuzgkpgvoogkppriua,gqkzca,gvl gvzbravla,
vl gikslauookz-xuluzvogkpgvoogulbuzwzraua?gQmkunuzgmvagmv gkiivarklgpkz
kzviouagvl gwzu ribrklagmvagbmuzugpksl gaspprirulbgbkgauznugmragbszlj
‘Bragvgqkl uzgmkqgfvltgvl gmkqgv frzv.ougikliszzuliuagvlgrlbuoorxulb
wuzakl,gvl gvgwvzbrisovzgpzrul gkpgfrlu,gmvagbmuzugpksl gksbgrlgpvnksz
kpgkszgzuorxrkl;gvl givllkbguvarotg.ugwsbgksbgkpgbmugikliurbgbmvbgrbgqva
Mkfuz’ag uarxl;gvl gtubgmugragvagquoogviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmragvsbmkzgva
vltgfvlgqmvbunuzgkpgmragbrfujgVl gqmvbgmugmvagpksl grlgpvnkszgkpgksz
zuorxrklgbmuzu,gnuztgfvltgvlirulbotgmvnugpksl grlgpvnkszgkpgbmurzajg k
.sbgk.auznugmkqgWovbkgragbsf.ou gvl gbkaau gv.ksb;gunuztgklugullk.orlx
mragkqlgkwrlrklag.tgvwwotrlxgmrfgbkgmrfauop,gvl gfvcrlxgmrfgbvcugqmvb
ar ugbmutgwouvaujgBmutg zvqgmrfgrl,gvl gulxvxugmrfgrlgvoogbmugluq
kwrlrklagbmugqkzo gzuiurnua;gvl gfvcugmrf,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug rppuzulb
ikszaugkpgbmrlxa,g rppuzgpzkfgmrfauop;gunuztgklugfvcuagmrfg ravnkq,
viikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgaulau,gbmugfvlluzagvl gisabkfagovqpsogrlgmragvxu,
.uivsaugbmutgvzugslovqpsogrlgksza;gvl gvoogbmragqrbmgnrnvirbtgvl gwkquz,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugpkziugvl gawzrxmborluaagkpgbmugqrbgkpgbmugrlbuzwzubuzj
Pzkfgbmugavfugpksl vbrklgbmvbgMuzviorbsagvl gbmragaulbuliugkpgmragmv ,
“bmvbgvoogbmrlxagmv grlgbmufgbmkaugpkzfagbmvbgqug raiuzl,”g ufkizrbsa
 zuqgesrbugvgiklbzvztgikliosarkl,--“bmvbgk.yuibagmvnugrlgbmufglkbmrlx
bmvbgqug raiuzlgrlgbmuf;”gvl g.uivsaugmklutgragaquubgbkgklugvl g.rbbuz
bkgvlkbmuz,gmugbmuliugvzxsu gbmvbgrbgqvaglurbmuzgaquubglkzg.rbbuzjgBmu
Wtzzmklrvlagqkso gavtgbmvbgbmutgcluqglkbgqmubmuzgrbgragaquubgkzg.rbbuz,
kzgqmubmuzgbmugklugkzgbmugkbmuz,gkzg.kbm;gpkzgbmuaugvoqvtagxvrlu 
bmugmrxmuabgwkrlbgkpg s.rbvbrkljgBmugItzulvriagmuo gbmvbglkbmrlxgqva
wuziuwbr.ougpzkfgqrbmksb,gvl gbmvbgbmvbgklotgqvagwuziuwbr.ougbmvb
rlqvz otgbksimu gsa,gvagwvrlgvl gwouvaszu;gviclkqou xrlxglurbmuzgaksl 
lkzgikoksz,g.sbgiuzbvrlgvppuibrklagklotgbmvbgqugzuiurnugpzkfgbmuf;gvl 
bmvbgfvl’agys xfulbgmv glkgkbmuzgauvbgWzkbvxkzvag.uorunu gbmvbg“qmvb
auufagbzsugbkgunuztgklu,gragbzsugbkgunuztgkluj”gBmugUwriszuvlagok xu 
voogys xfulbgrlgbmugaulaua,gvl grlgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmrlxa,gvl grl
wouvaszujgWovbkgqkso gmvnugbmugys xfulbgkpgbzsbm,gvl gbzsbmgrbauop,
 uzrnu gpzkfgkwrlrklagvl gbmugaulaua,gbkg.uoklxgbkgbmugqrbgvl 
ikxrbvbrklj

Bmrag raikszaugmvagwsbgfugswklgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugaulaua,grlgqmrim
oruagbmugxzuvbuabgpksl vbrklgvl gWzk°pgkpgkszgrxlkzvliujgQmvbakunuzgra
clkql,grag ks.bouaagclkqlg.tgbmugpvisobtgkpgbmugclkquz;gpkz,gauurlxgbmu
ys xfulbgwzkiuu agpzkfgbmugkwuzvbrklgkpgmrfgbmvbgys xua,g‘bragzuvakl
bmvbgbmragkwuzvbrklg.ugwuzpkzfu g.tgmragfuvlagvl gqroo,glkbg.tgbmu
iklabzvrlbgkpgvlkbmuz;gvagrbgqkso gmvwwulgrpgqugcluqgbmrlxag.tgbmu
wkquz,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmugovqgkpgbmurzguaauliujgLkqgvoogclkqou xugra
iklnutu gbkgsag.tgbmugaulaua;gbmutgvzugkszgfvabuza:--


ggggggNrvgesvgfslrbvgpr ur
gggWzkhrfvgpuzbgmsfvlsfgrlgwuibsa,gbufwovesugfulbra;

gggggg“Rbgragbmugaszuabgwvbmgbmvbgpvrbmgivlgprl 
ggg.tgqmrimgbkgulbuzgmsfvlgmuvzbgvl gfrl j”


Airuliug.uxrlag.tgbmuf,gvl gragzuakonu grlbkgbmufjgVpbuzgvoo,gqugamkso 
clkqglkgfkzugbmvlgvgabklugrpgqug r glkbgclkqgbmuzugragaksl ,gk ksz,
orxmb,gbvabu,gfuvaszu,gqurxmb,gakpbluaa,gmvz luaa,gamvzwluaa,gikoksz,
afkkbmluaa,g.zuv bm,gvl g uwbm;gbmuaugvzugbmugwovbpkzfagvl gwzrlirwoua
kpgbmugabzsibszugkpgvoogkszgclkqou xu;gvl ,gviikz rlxgbkgakfu,gairuliu
raglkbmrlxguoaug.sbgaulaujgMugbmvbgikso gfvcugfugiklbzv ribgbmugaulaua,
qkso gmvnugfug.tgbmugbmzkvb;gmugikso glkbgfvcugfugxkgpszbmuzg.vicjgBmu
aulauagvzugbmug.uxrllrlxgvl gbmugul gkpgmsfvlgclkqou xu:--


ggggggRlnulruagwzrfragv.gaular.laguaaugizuvbvf
gggLkbrbrvfgnuro;gluesugaulasagwkaaugzupuoorjjjj
gggEsr gfvykzugpr ugwkzzk,gesvfgaulasa,gmv.uzrg u.ub?

gggggg“Kpgbzsbm,gqmvbu’uzg raiknuzruagvzugfv u,
gggVzug.tgbmugaulauagbkgsagprzabgiklnutu ;
gggLkzgqroogklugaulaug.ug.vppou ;gpkzgklgqmvb
gggIvlgqugzuotgfkzugavpuotgbmvlgklgbmvb?”


Oubgsagvbbzr.sbugbkgbmufgbmugouvabgqugivl,gqugfsab,gmkqunuz,gkp
luiuaarbtgxzvlbgbmufgbmra,gbmvbgrbgrag.tgbmurzgfuvlagvl gfu rvbrklgbmvb
voogkszgrlabzsibrklgrag rzuibu jgIriuzkgavta,gbmvbgImztarwwsagmvnrlx
vbbufwbu gbkguhbulsvbugbmugpkziugvl gnrzbsugkpgbmugaulaua,gwzuaulbu gbk
mrfauopgvzxsfulbagvl gakgnumufulbgkwwkarbrklagbkgbmugiklbzvztgbmvbgmu
ikso glkbgavbraptgmrfauopgbmuzurl;gqmuzuswklgIvfuv ua,gqmkgfvrlbvrlu 
bmugiklbzvztgar u,g.kvabu gbmvbgmugqkso gfvcugsaugkpgbmugnuztgqkz agvl 
vzxsfulbagkpgImztarwwsagbkgiklbzknuzbgvl giklpsbugmrf,gvl gbmuzupkzu
bmsagizru gksbgvxvrlabgmrf:g“Kgfrauzv.ou!gbmtgpkziugmvag uabzktu gbmuuj”
gBmuzugivlg.uglkbmrlxgv.asz gbkgvgxzuvbuzg uxzuugbmvlgbkgfvrlbvrlgbmvb
przug kuaglkbgqvzf,gbmvbgorxmbg kuaglkbgamrlu,gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglk
qurxmbglkzgakor rbtgrlgrzkl,gqmrimgvzugbmrlxagiklnutu gbkgsag.tgbmu
aulaua;glurbmuzgragbmuzug.uorupglkzgclkqou xugrlgfvlgbmvbgivlg.u
ikfwvzu gbkgbmvbgpkzgiuzbvrlbtj

Bmugprzabgiklar uzvbrklgRgmvnugswklgbmugas.yuibgkpgbmugaulauagragbmvbgR
fvcugvg ks.bgqmubmuzgkzglkgfvlg.ugpszlramu gqrbmgvooglvbszvogaulauajgR
auugaunuzvogvlrfvoagqmkgornugvlgulbrzugvl gwuzpuibgorpu,gakfugqrbmksb
arxmb,gkbmuzagqrbmksbgmuvzrlx;gqmkgclkqagqmubmuzgbkgsagvoakgklu,gbqk,
bmzuu,gkzgfvltgkbmuzgaulauagfvtglkbg.ugqvlbrlx?gPkzgrpgvltgklug.u
qvlbrlx,gkszguhvfrlvbrklgivllkbg raiknuzgbmug upuibjg‘Bragbmugwzrnrouxu
kpgbmugaulauagbkg.ugbmugsbfkabgorfrbgkpgkszg raiknuzt;gbmuzugraglkbmrlx
.utkl gbmufgbmvbgivlgvaarabgsagrlguhwokzvbrkl,glkbgakgfsimgvagklugaulau
rlgbmug raiknuztgkpgvlkbmuz:--


ggggggVlgwkbuzslbgkisokagvszuagzuwzumul uzu?gvlgvszua
gggBvibsagvlgmsligwkzzkgbvibsfgavwkzgvzxlubgkzra?
gggVlgiklpsbv.slbglvzua,gkisornugzunrliulb?

gggggg“Ivlguvzagbmugutua,gbmugbksimgbmuguvza,gikzzuib?
gggKzgragbmvbgbksimg.tgbvabrlxgbkg.ugimuic’ ?
gggKzgbm’gkbmuzgaulaua,gamvoogbmuglkaugkzgutua
gggIklpsbugrlgbmurzgwuisorvzgpvisobrua?”


Bmutgvoogfvcugbmuguhbzufuabgorfrbagkpgkszgv.rorbt:--


ggggggAukzasfgisresugwkbuabvag rnravguab,gasvgnragisresuguab,

gggggg“Uvimgmvagrbagwkquzg rabrlibotgvl gvoklu,
gggVl gunuztgaulau’agwkquzgragrbagkqlj”


Rbgragrfwkaar.ougbkgfvcugvgfvlglvbszvootg.orl gikliurnugbmvbgmug kuaglkb
auu;grfwkaar.ougbkgfvcugmrfg uarzugarxmb,gkzgbkgzuxzubgmrag upuib;gpkz
qmrimgzuvaklgqugksxmbglkbgbkg uzrnugvltgvaaszvliugpzkfgbmugakso’ag.urlx
iklbulbu gvl gavbrapru gqrbmgbmkaugqugmvnu;giklar uzrlxgbmvbgrbgivllkb
.ugaular.ougmuzurlgkpgrbagrlprzfrbtgvl grfwuzpuibrkl,grpgbmuzug.ugvlt
asimgbmrlxjgRbgragrfwkaar.ougbkgavtgvltgbmrlxgbkgbmrag.orl gfvl,gurbmuz
.tgzuvaklrlx,gvzxsfulb,gkzgarfrorbs u,gbmvbgivlgwkaauaagmragrfvxrlvbrkl
qrbmgvltgvwwzumularklgkpgorxmb,gikoksz,gkzgarxmb;gbmuzu’aglkbmrlx
zufvrlag.umrl gbmvbgivlgwsamgklgbmugaulauagbkgunr uliujgBmkaugbmvb
vzug.kzlg.orl ,gqmkfgqugmuvzgqramgbmutgikso gauu,grbgraglkbgbmvbgbmut
sl uzabvl gqmvbgbmutg uarzu;gbmutgmvnugouvzlu gpzkfgsagbmvbgbmutgqvlb
akfubmrlx;gbmvbgbmuzugragakfubmrlxgbkg.ug uarzu gbmvbgqugmvnu,gqmrim
bmutgivlglvfugrl uu gvl gawuvcgkpgrbaguppuibgvl giklauesuliua;g.sbgtub
bmutgclkqglkbgqmvbgrbgra,glkzgvwwzumul grbgvbgvooj

Rgmvnugauulgvgxulboufvlgkpgvgxkk gpvfrotgqmkgqvag.kzlg.orl ,gkzgvbgouvab
.orl gpzkfgasimgvlgvxugbmvbgmugclkqaglkbgqmvbgarxmbgra;gqmkgragakgorbbou
aular.ougkpgmrag upuibgbmvbgmugfvcuagsaugvagqug kgkpgqkz agwzkwuzgpkz
auurlx,gvl gvwworuagbmufgvpbuzgvgfvlluzgqmkootgwvzbrisovzgvl gmragkqlj
Bmutg.zksxmbgmrfgvgimro gbkgqmrimgmugqvagxk -pvbmuz,gqmrim,gmvnrlxgbvcul
rlbkgmragvzfa,g“Xkk gXk ,”gavr gmu,g“qmvbgvgprlugimro !gMkqg.uvsbrpso
bkgokkcgswkl!gqmvbgvgwzubbtgpviugrbgmva!”gMugqroogavt,gorcugklugkpgsa,
“Bmragzkkfgmvagvgnuztgprlugwzkawuib;--rbgragiouvzgquvbmuz;--bmugasl
amrluag.zrxmbj”gVl gfkzuknuz,g.urlxgbmvbgmslbrlx,gbullra,gvl g.sbbagvzu
kszguhuziraua,gvl gmugmvagmuvz gak,gmugmvagbvculgvgorcrlxgbkgbmuf,gqroo
zr ugv-mslbrlx,gvl g.uorunuagmugmvagvagxkk gamvzugkpgbmugawkzbgvagqu
mvnu;gvl gqrooguhwzuaagmrfauopgvagvlxztgkzgwouvau gvagbmug.uabgkpgsa
voo,gvl gtubgclkqaglkbmrlxgkpgrbg.sbg.tgbmuguvzjgKlugizruagksbgbkgmrf,
“Muzu’agvgmvzu!”gqmulgmugragswklgakfugunulgwovrlgqmuzugmugfvtgavpuot
zr u;gvl gvpbuzqvz a,gqmulgbmutgbuoogmrf,g“Bmugmvzugragcroou ,”gmugqroo
.ugvagknuzyktu gvl gwzks gkpgrbgvagmugmuvzagkbmuzagavtgbmutgvzujgMugqroo
bvcugvgbullra-.voogrlgmragoupbgmvl gvl gabzrcugrbgvqvtgqrbmgbmugzvicub;
mugqroogamkkbgqrbmgvgmvzesu.saagvbgzvl kf,gvl gragiklbulbu gqrbmgqmvb
mragwukwougbuoogmrf,gbmvbgmugragknuz,gkzgqr uj

Qmkgclkqagqmubmuzgvoogmsfvlgcrl gikffrbglkbgbmugorcugv.asz rbt,gpkzgqvlb
kpgakfugaulau,gvl gbmvbgbmzksxmgbmrag upvsobgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkp
bmugpviugkpgbmrlxagragikliuvou gpzkfgsa?gQmvbg kgqugclkqg.sbgbmvbgbmu
 rpprisobruagqmrimgqugprl grlgaunuzvogqkzcagkpglvbszugwzkiuu gmuliu;
vl gbmvbgaunuzvoguppuibagkpgvlrfvoa,gqmrimguhiuu gkszgivwvirbt,gvzuglkb
wzk siu g.tgpvisobtgkpgakfugaulaugbmvbgqugvzug upuibrnugrl?gvl gqmubmuz
akfugkpgbmufgmvnuglkbg.tgbmragfuvlagvgorpugfkzugpsoogvl gulbrzugbmvl
ksza?gQugaurdugvlgvwwougqrbmgvoogkszgaulaua;gqugbmuzugprl gzu luaa,
afkkbmluaa,gk ksz,gvl gaquubluaa;g.sbgrbgfvtgmvnugkbmuzgnrzbsuag.uar ua
bmuau,gvagbkgmuvbgkzg.rl rlx,gqmrimglkgaulaugkpgkszagivlgmvnugvlt
zupuzuliugslbkjgRagrbglkbgorcuotgbmvbgbmuzugvzugaularbrnugpvisobruagrl
lvbszugbmvbgvzugprbgbkgys xugkpgvl gbkg raiuzlgbmkaugqmrimgqugivoogbmu
kiisobgwzkwuzbruagrlgaunuzvogbmrlxa,gvagpkzgbmugokv abklugbkgvbbzvib
rzkl;gvl gbmvbgbmugqvlbgkpgasimgpvisobruagragbmugivsaugbmvbgqu
vzugrxlkzvlbgkpgbmugbzsuguaauliugkpgasimgbmrlxa?g‘Bragwuzmvwagakfu
wvzbrisovzgaulaugbmvbgxrnuagikicagbkgsl uzabvl gqmvbgmkszgrbgragvb
fr lrxmb,gvl gqmulgrbgxzkqagbkg.ugbkqvz ag vt,gvl gbmvbgfvcuagbmufgizkq
viikz rlxot;gbmvbgbuvimuagimricula,g.upkzugbmutgmvnugvltguhwuzruliugkp
bmugfvbbuz,gbkgpuvzgvgawvzzkq-mvqc,gvl glkbgvgxkkaugkzgvgwuvikic,gbmksxm
.rz agkpgvgfsimgovzxuzgardu;gbmvbgivsbrklagbmufgvxvrlabgbmugmkabrou
esvorbtgbmugivbgmvagvxvrlabgbmuf,gvl gfvcuagbmufglkbgbkgpuvzgvg kx;gbk
vzfgbmufauonuagvxvrlabgbmugfuqrlx,gvgcrl gkpgpovbbuzrlxgnkriu,gkpgbmu
klu,gvl glkbgvxvrlabgbmug.vzcrlx,gvgamzroogvl gbmzuvbulrlxgnkriu,gkpgbmu
kbmuz;gbmvbgbuvimuagqvawa,gvlba,gvl gzvba,gbkgpvoogswklgbmug.uabgwuvz
vl gbmug.uabgimuuaug.upkzugbmutgmvnugbvabu gbmuf,gvl grlawrzuagbmugabvx,
uouwmvlb,gvl gauzwulb,gqrbmgbmugclkqou xugkpgvgiuzbvrlgmuz.gwzkwuzgpkz
bmurzgiszujgBmuzugraglkgaulaugbmvbgmvaglkbgvgfrxmbtg kfrlrkl,gvl gbmvb
 kuaglkbg.tgrbagwkquzgrlbzk siugvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgclkqou xuajgRp
qugquzug upuibrnugrlgbmugrlbuoorxuliugkpgaksl a,gkpgmvzfklt,gvl gkpgbmu
nkriu,grbgqkso givsaugvlgslrfvxrlv.ougiklpsarklgrlgvoogbmugzuabgkpgksz
airuliu;gpkz,g.uar uagqmvbg.uoklxagbkgbmugwzkwuzguppuibgkpgunuztgaulau,
mkqgfvltgvzxsfulba,giklauesuliua,gvl gikliosarklag kgqug zvqgbkgkbmuz
bmrlxa,g.tgikfwvzrlxgklugaulaugqrbmgvlkbmuz?gOubgvlgsl uzabvl rlxgfvl
rfvxrlugmsfvlglvbszugkzrxrlvootgwzk siu gqrbmksbgbmugaulaugkpgauurlx,
vl giklar uzgqmvbgrxlkzvliugvl gbzks.ougasimgvg upuibgqkso g.zrlxgswkl
mrf,gqmvbgvg vzcluaagvl g.orl luaagrlgbmugakso;gmugqroogbmulgauug.tgbmvb
kpgmkqgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgbzsbmgbmugwzrnvbrklgkpgasim
vlkbmuzgaulau,gkzgkpgbqkgkzgbmzuu,gamkso gqug.ugakg uwzrnu ,gqkso g.uj
Qugmvnugpkzfu gvgbzsbmg.tgbmugiklasobvbrklgvl gikliszzuliugkpgkszgprnu
aulaua;g.sbgwuzmvwagqugamkso gmvnugbmugiklaulbgvl giklbzr.sbrklgkpgurxmb
kzgbulgbkgfvcugvgiuzbvrlg raiknuztgkpgrbgrlgrbaguaauliuj

Bmugauibagbmvbgiklbzknuzbgbmugclkqou xugkpgfvlg kgrbgwzrlirwvootg.tgbmu
sliuzbvrlbtgvl gquvcluaagkpgkszgaulaua;gpkzgarliugvoogclkqou xugra
.tgbmurzgfuvlagvl gfu rvbrklgiklnutu gslbkgsa,grpgbmutgpvrogrlgbmurz
zuwkzb,grpgbmutgikzzswbgkzgvobuzgqmvbgbmutg.zrlxgsagpzkfgqrbmksb,grpgbmu
orxmbgqmrimg.tgbmufgizuuwagrlbkgbmugaksog.ugk.aiszu grlgbmugwvaavxu,
qugmvnuglkbmrlxguoaugbkgmko g.tjgPzkfgbmraguhbzufug rpprisobtgvoogbmuau
pvliruagwzkiuu :g“Bmvbgunuztgas.yuibgmvagrlgrbauopgvoogqugbmuzugprl j
Bmvbgrbgmvaglkbmrlxgrlgrbgkpgqmvbgqugbmrlcgqugbmuzugprl ;”gvl gbmvbgkp
bmugUwriszuvla,g“Bmvbgbmugaslgraglkg.rxxuzgbmvlg‘bragys xu g.tgkszgarxmb
bkg.u:--”


ggggggEsr esr gr guab,glrmrokgpuzbszgfvykzugprxszv,
gggEsvfglkabzragkisoragesvfgiufrfsa,guaaugnr ubsz:

gggggg“.sbg.ugrbgqmvbgrbgqroogrlgkszguabuufa,
gggRbgraglkg.rxxuzgbmvlgbkgsagrbgauufa:”


bmvbgbmugvwwuvzvliuagqmrimgzuwzuaulbgvg.k tgxzuvbgbkgmrfgbmvbgragluvz,
vl gouaagbkgmrfgbmvbgragfkzugzufkbu,gvzug.kbmgbzsu:--


ggggggLuugbvfulgmrigkisokagpvoorgikliu rfsagmrosfjjjj
gggWzkrl ugvlrfrgnrbrsfgmkigkisoragv prlxuzuglkor:

gggggg“Tubgbmvbgbmugutu’ag uos u gqug ult;
gggImvzxuglkbgbmugfrl ’agpvsoba,gbmuzupkzu,gklgbmugutu:”


“vl ,gzuakosbuot,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkg uiurbgrlgbmugaulaua;gbmvbgqugvzugbk
orugvbgbmurzgfuzit,gvl gauucguoauqmuzugzuvaklagbkguhisaugbmug rppuzuliu
vl giklbzv ribrklagqugbmuzugprl ,gunulgbkgbmugrlnulbrlxgkpgoruagvl 
kbmuzgpovfa,grpgrbgikfugbkgbmvb,gzvbmuzgbmvlgviisaugbmugaulauaj”
gBrfvxkzvagnkqu gbmvb,g.tgwzuaarlxgkzgbszlrlxgmragutu,gmugikso glunuz
wuziurnugbmugorxmbgkpgbmugivl ougbkg ks.ou,gvl gbmvbgbmugauufrlxgak
wzkiuu u gpzkfgbmugnriugkpgkwrlrkl,gvl glkbgpzkfgbmugrlabzsfulbjgBmu
fkabgv.asz gkpgvoogv.asz rbrua,gqrbmgbmugUwriszuvla,gragbkg ultgbmu
pkziugvl guppuibgkpgbmugaulaua:--


ggggggWzkrl u,gesk grlgeskeskguabgmragnrasfgbufwkzu,gnuzsfguab
gggUb,garglklgwkbsrbgzvbrkg raakonuzugivsavf,
gggIszguv,gesægpsuzrlbgyshbrfgesv zvbv,gwzkisogarlb
gggNravgzkbsl v;gbvfulgwzæabvbgzvbrklraguxulbuf
ggg.u  uzugful kaugivsavagsbzrsaesugprxszæ,
gggEsvfgfvlr.sagfvlrpuabvgasragufrbbuzugesæesvf,
gggUbgnrkovzugpr ufgwzrfvf,gubgiklnuoouzugbkbv
gggPsl vfulbv,gesr.saglrhvbszgnrbvgavosaesu:
gggLklgfk kgulrfgzvbrkgzsvbgkflra,gnrbvgeskesugrwav
gggIklir vbguhbufwok,glrargizu uzugaular.sagvsara,
gggWzkirwrbuaesugokikagnrbvzu,gubgiæbuzv,gesægarlb
gggRlgxuluzugmkigpsxrul vj

gggggg“BmvbgqmvbgqugauuguhrabagRgqroogfvrlbvrl,
gggVl grpgkszgpuu.ougzuvaklgivl’bguhwovrl
gggQmtgbmrlxagauufgaesvzugqmulgbmutgvzugnuztgluvz,
gggVl gvbgvgxzuvbuzg rabvliugzksl gvwwuvz;
ggg‘Brag.ubbuzgtub,gpkzgmrfgbmvb’agvbgvgwvsau,
ggg‘B’gvaarxlgbkgurbmuzgprxszugvgpvoaugivsau,
gggBmvlgamkicgmragpvrbm,gvl gbmugpksl vbrklagzul 
gggKlgqmrimgkszgavpubtgvl gkszgorpug uwul :
gggPkzgzuvaklglkbgvoklu,g.sbgorpugvl gvoo,
gggBkxubmuzgqroogqrbmgas  ulgzsrlgpvoo;
gggSlouaagqugbzsabgkszgaulaua,glkzg uawrau
gggBkgamslgbmugnvzrksag vlxuzagbmvbgvzrauj”


Bmragakg uawuzvbugvl gslwmrokakwmrivogv nriuguhwzuaauagklotgbmra,--bmvb
msfvlgclkqou xugivllkbgaswwkzbgrbauopg.sbg.tgzuvaklgslzuvaklv.ou,
pkkoram,gvl gfv ;g.sbgbmvbgrbgragtubg.ubbuzgbmvbgfvl,gbkgaubgvgxzuvbuz
nvosugswklgmrfauop,gfvcugsaugkpgvltgkbmuzgzufu t,gmkqgpvlbvabrigakunuz,
bmvlgbkgiklpuaagmragluiuaavztgrxlkzvliu--vgbzsbmgakg rav nvlbvxuksagbk
mrfjgMugivllkbgvnkr gkqlrlxgbmvbgbmugaulauagvzugbmugaknuzurxlgokz a
kpgmragclkqou xu;g.sbgbmutgvzugsliuzbvrl,gvl gpvoarprv.ougrlgvoo
irzisfabvliua;g‘bragbmuzugbmvbgmugragbkgprxmbgrbgksbgbkgbmugovab;gvl 
rpgmragysabgpkziuagpvrogmrf,gvagbmutg k,gbkgaswwotgbmvbg upuibgqrbm
k.abrlvit,gbufuzrbt,gvl grfws uliujgRlgivaugqmvbgbmugUwriszuvlagavt
.ugbzsu,gnrd:g“bmvbgqugmvnuglkgclkqou xugrpgbmugaulaua’gvwwuvzvliua
.ugpvoau;”gvl grpgbmvbgvoakg.ugbzsugqmrimgbmugAbkriagavt,g“bmvbgbmu
vwwuvzvliuagkpgbmugaulauagvzugakgpvoaugbmvbgbmutgivlgpszlramgsagqrbmglk
fvlluzgkpgclkqou xu,”gqugamvoogiklios u,gbkgbmug rav nvlbvxugkpgbmuau
bqkgxzuvbg kxfvbrivogauiba,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgairuliugvbgvooj

Vagbkgbmuguzzkzgvl gsliuzbvrlbtgkpgbmugkwuzvbrklgkpgbmugaulaua,gunuzt
klugfvtgpszlramgmrfauopgqrbmgvagfvltguhvfwouagvagmugwouvaua;gakgkz rlvzt
vzugbmugpvsobagvl gbzricagbmutgwsbgswklgsajgRlgbmuguimkgkpgvgnvooutgbmu
aksl gkpgvgbzsfwubgauufagbkgfuubgsa,gqmrimgikfuagpzkfgvgwoviug.umrl :--


ggggggUhabvlbuaesugwzkisogfu rkg ugxszxrbugfklbua,
gggIovaar.sagrlbuzgelkagor.uzgwvbubguhrbsa,gr uf
gggVwwvzulb,gubgoklxug rnkoargoriub,grlxula
gggRlasovgiklyslibragbvfulguhgmragvlvgnr ubszjjj
gggUbgpsxuzugv gwswwrfgikoruagivfwresugnr ulbsz,
gggElkagvxrflagwzkbuzglvnrf,gnuoraesugnkovfsajjjj
gggS.rgrlgfu rkglk.raguessagviuzgk.mæarb
gggPovfrlu,guesrgikzwsagbzvlanuzasfgpuzzugnr ubsz
gggNra,gubgrlgv nuzasfgposfulgiklbzs uzugzvwbrfj

gggggg“Vl gzkicagr’gbm’gauvagbmvbgwzks otgzvraugbmurzgmuv ,
gggBmksxmgpvzg raykrlu ,gbmksxmgzktvoglvnruagawzuv ,
gggBmurzgavroag.ubquul;gtubgrpgpzkfg rabvliugamkql,
gggBmutgauufgvlgraovl gvoogikf.rl’ grlgkluj
gggBmsagamrwa,gbmksxmg zrnulg.tgvgwzkawuzksagxvou,
gggAuufgprh’ gbkgavrokza;gbmkaugauufgsl uzgavro
gggBmvbgzr ugvbgvlimkzgavpu;gvl gvoogv frzu,
gggVagbmutgzkqg.t,gbkgauugbmugzkicagzubrzuj
gggBmsa,gqmulgrlgzvwr gabzuvfagftgmkzaugmvbmgabkk ,
gggVl gRgokkc’ g kqlqvz gklgbmugzkoorlxgpokk ;
gggBmksxmgmugabkk gabroo,gRgbmksxmbgmug r g rnr u
gggBmugmuv oklxgabzuvfa,gvl gabzrnugvxvrlabgbmugbr u,
gggVl gvoogbmrlxagauuf’ gbkgfknugklgunuztgar uj”


Bvcugvgfsacub-.voogsl uzgbmugpkzuprlxuz,gbmugfr  ougprlxuzg.urlxgovwwu 
knuzgrb,grbgpuuoagakgorcugbqkgbmvbgvgfvlgqroogmvnugfsimgv kgbkgwuzasv u
mrfauopgbmuzugrag.sbgklu;gbmugul gkpgbmugbqkgprlxuzagpuuorlxguvimgkp
bmufgklugvbgbmugavfugbrfu;gpkzgbmvbgbmugaulauagvzugnuztgkpbulgfvabuzagkp
kszgzuvakl,gvl giklabzvrlgrbgbkgzuiurnugrfwzuaarklagqmrimgrbgys xuagvl 
clkqagbkg.ugpvoau,gragpzuesulbotgauuljgRgaubgvar ugbmugaulaugkpgpuuorlx,
bmvbgmvagrbagpslibrklagluvzuz,gfkzugornuot,gvl gas.abvlbrvo,gbmvbgak
kpbul,g.tgbmuguppuibagkpgbmugwvrlagrbgmuowagbmug.k tgbk,gas.nuzbagvl 
knuzbmzkqagvoogbmkaugprlugAbkrivogzuakosbrkla,gvl gikfwuoagmrfgbkgizt
ksbgkpgmrag.uoot,gqmkgmvagzuakosbuotguabv.oramu gbmrag kibzrlugrlgmra
akso--“Bmvbgbmugikori,gvl gvoogkbmuzgwvrlagvl g rauvaua,gvzugrl rppuzulb
bmrlxa,glkbgmvnrlxgbmugwkquzgbkgv.vbugvltgbmrlxgkpgbmugaknuzurxl
puorirbtgqmuzurlgbmugqraugfvlgragauvbu g.tgmragnrzbsuj”gBmuzugraglk
muvzbgakguppufrlvbugbmvbgbmugzvbbougvl gaksl gkpgkszg zsfagvl gbzsfwuba
qrooglkbgrlpovfugqrbmgikszvxu;glkzgakgasooulgbmvbgbmugmvzfkltgkpgksz
fsarigqrooglkbgzksaugvl gimuuz;glkzgakgabs..kzlgvgaksogbmvbgqroo
lkbgpuuogrbauopgabzsicgqrbmgakfugzunuzuliugrlgiklar uzrlxgbmugxokkft
nvabluaagkpgkszgimszimua,gbmugnvzrubtgkpgkzlvfulba,gvl gkz uzgkpgksz
iuzufklrua;gvl grlgmuvzrlxgbmugakouflgfsarigkpgkszgkzxvla,gvl gbmugxzviu
vl g unksbgmvzfkltgkpgkszgnkriuajgUnulgbmkaugbmvbgikfugrlgqrbmgiklbufwb
puuogvgiuzbvrlgamrnuzrlxgrlgbmurzgmuvzba,gvl gakfubmrlxgkpg zuv gbmvb
fvcuagbmufg.uxrlgbkg ks.bgbmurzgkwrlrklajgPkzgftgwvzbgRg kglkbgbmrlc
ftauopgabzklxgulksxmgbkgmuvzgvlgk ugkpgMkzviugkzgIvbsoosagaslxg.tgv
.uvsbrpsogtkslxgfksbmgqrbmksbgufkbrkl;gvl gDulkgmv gzuvaklgbkgavtg“bmvb
bmugnkriugqvagbmugpokquzgkpg.uvsbtj”gKlugqkso gkliugfvcugfug.uorunugbmvb
vgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,gqmkfgvoogqugPzulimfulgclkq,gmv grfwkau gswklgfugrl
zuwuvbrlxgakfugnuzauagbmvbgmugmv gfv u;gbmvbgbmutgquzuglkbgbmugavfugswkl
wvwuzgbmvbgbmutgquzugrlgbmugvrz;gvl gbmvbgftgutuagqkso gfvcugvgiklbzvzt
ys xfulbgbkgftguvza;gakgxzuvbgvgwkquzgmvagwzklslirvbrklgbkgxrnugpvamrkl
vl gnvosugbkgqkzcagbmvbgvzugoupbgbkgbmugupprivitgvl gfk sovbrklgkpgbmu
nkriujgVl gbmuzupkzugWmrokhulsagqvaglkbgakgfsimgbkg.ovfu,gmuvzrlx
klugxrnrlxgvlgroogviiulbgbkgakfugikfwkarbrklgkpgmra,grlgawszlrlxgvl 
.zuvcrlxgiuzbvrlguvzbmulgnuaauoagkpgmra,gavtrlx,g“Rg.zuvcgqmvbgragbmrlu,
.uivsaugbmksgikzzswbuabgqmvbgragfrluj”gBkgqmvbgul g r gbmkaugfulgqmk
mvnu,gqrbmgvgprzfgzuakosbrkl,g uabzktu gbmufauonua,gbszlgvqvtgbmurz
pviuagbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkbgauugbmug.okqgbmvbgqvag.tgbmufauonuagvwwkrlbu ?
Vl gbmvbgbmkaugqmk,gpkzgbmurzgmuvobm,g uarzugvl gikffvl grlirarklagbk
.ugfv u,gvl givsbuzruagbkg.ugvwworu gbkgbmuf,givllkbgul szugbmugarxmbgkp
bmugwzuwvzvbrkla,grlabzsfulba,gvl gkwuzvbrklagkpgbmugaszxukl,g.urlxgbmvb
bmugarxmbgraglkbgrlgvltgqvtgbkgwvzbrirwvbugrlgbmugwvrl?gVzuglkbgbmuau
wzkwuzguhvfwouagbkgnuzrptgbmugvsbmkzrbtgbmugaulauagmvnugknuzgbmu
rfvxrlvbrkl?g‘Bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugbmvbgqugclkqgbmuaugbzuaauagquzu
.kzzkqu gpzkfgvgwvxugkzgvgovicut;gbmvbgbmragzksxugivfugpzkfgAwvrl,gvl 
bmragwuvzo-wkq uzgpzkfgbmugKiuvlgAuvjgKszgarxmbgqroo,glunuzbmuouaa,
ikfwuogsagbkgiklpuaagbmurzgas.yuibgfkzugvxzuuv.ougvl gfkzugoknuot
vxvrlabgvoogzuvakl;gpkzgrlgbmragbmuzugraglkbmrlxgkpgrbagkql:--


ggggggVspuzrlzvzgisobs;gxuffra,gvszkesugbuxslbsz
gggIzrfrlv;gwvzagfrlrfvguabgrwavgwsuoovgalrj
gggAæwu,gs.rgarbgesk gvfua,grlbuzgbvzlgfsobvgzuesrzva:
ggg uirwrbgmvigkisokagæxr ug rnuagVfkzj

gggggg“.tg zuaagqu’zugqkl;gxko ,gxufa,gvl gzrimg.zkiv ua
gggFvcugswgbmugwvxuvlbgbmvbgtkszgmuvzbgrlnv ua;
gggRlgvoogbmvbgxorbbuzrlxgprxszugqmrimgtksgauu,
gggBmugpvzgouvabgwvzbgkpgmuzgkqlgauopgragamu;
gggRlgnvrlgpkzgmuzgtksgoknugvfr abgasimgikab
gggTksgauvzim,gbmugfrabzuaagrlgasimg zuaagragokabj”


Qmvbgvgabzvlxugwkquzg kgbmugwkubagvbbzr.sbugbkgbmugaulaua,gbmvbgfvcu
Lvziraasagakg uawuzvbuotgrlgoknugqrbmgmragkqlgamv kq,


ggggggIslibvesugfrzvbsz,gesr.saguabgfrzv.roragrwau;
gggAugiswrbgrfwzs ula,gub,gesrgwzk.vb,grwaugwzk.vbsz;
ggg sfesugwubrb,gwubrbsz;gwvzrbuzesugviiul rb,gubgvz ub:

gggggg“V frzubmgvoo;gpkzgqmrimgbkg.ugv frzu ;
gggVl grliklar uzvbuotgmrfauopg uarz’ j
gggBmugwzvrauagqmrimgmugxrnuagmrag.uvsbtgiovrf’ ,
gggQmkgauucagragaksxmb,gbm’grlpovfuzgragrlpovf’ :”


vl gWtxfvorkl’agys xfulbgakgbzks.ou g.tgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgbmugarxmb
kpgmragrnkztgabvbsugbmvbgmugoknuagvl gv kzuagrbgvagrpgrbgquzugvgornrlx
qkfvl!


ggggggKailovg vb,gzu  resugwsbvb:gauesrgbszesu,gbulubesu,
gggUbgizu rbgbvibrag rxrbkagrlar uzugfuf.zra;
gggUbgfubsrb,gwzuaakagnulrvbglugornkzgrlgvzbsaj

gggggg“Mugcraaua,gvl g.uorunuagmu’agcraau gvxvrl;
gggAurdua,gvl g‘bqrhbgmragvzfagmragoknug kbmgabzvrl,
gggVl gbmrlcagbmugwkoram’ grnkztgbmsagmuo 
ggg kbmgbkgmragprlxuzagvfkzksagwzuaaszugtruo ,
gggVl gmvagvgbrfkzksagpuvz,gouabg.ovicgvl g.osu
gggAmkso grlgbmugwvzbagqrbmgvz kszgwzuaa’ gulasuj”


Wsbgvgwmrokakwmuzgrlbkgvgivxugkpgafvoogbmrlgaubg.vzagkpgrzkl,gmvlxgmrf
klgbmugbkwgkpgbmugmrxmgbkquzgkpgLkbzug vfugvbgWvzra;gmugqroogauu,g.t
fvlrpuabgzuvakl,gbmvbgmugivllkbgwkaar.otgpvoo,gvl gtubgmugqroogprl 
(slouaagmugmvag.uulgsau gbkgbmugwosf.uz’agbzv u)gbmvbgmugivllkbgmuowg.sb
bmugarxmbgkpgbmuguhiuaarnugmurxmbgqroogpzrxmbgvl gvabksl gmrf;gpkzgqu
mvnugulksxmgbkg kgbkgvaaszugkszauonuagrlgbmugxvoouzruagkpgkszgabuuwoua,
rpgbmutgvzugfv ugqrbmgkwulgqkzc,gvobmksxmgbmutgvzugkpgabklu;gvl gakfu
bmuzugvzugbmvbgivllkbgul szugakgfsimgvagbkgbmrlcgkpgrbjgOubgbmuzug.ugv
.uvfgbmzkqlgknuzg.ubqrhbgbmuaugbqkgbkquza,gkpg.zuv bmgaspprirulbgbk
qvocgswkl,gbmuzugraglkgwmrokakwmrivogqra kfgakgprzfgbmvbgivlgxrnugsagbmu
ikszvxugbkgqvocgknuzgrbgvagqugamkso g kgswklgbmugxzksl jgRgmvnugkpbul
bzru gbmragswklgkszgfkslbvrlagrlgbmuaugwvzba;gvl gbmksxmgRgvfgklugqmkgvf
lkbgbmugfkabgas.yuibgbkg.ugvpzvr ,gRgqvaglkbgv.ougbkgul szugbkgokkcgrlbk
bmvbgrlprlrbug uwbmgqrbmksbgmkzzkzgvl gbzuf.orlx,gbmksxmgRgabkk gv.knu
ftgoulxbmgpzkfgbmugu xugkpgbmugwzuirwriu,gvl gikso glkbgmvnugpvooul
slouaagRgqkso jgQmuzugRgvoakgk.auznu gbmvb,gqmvbgmurxmbgakunuzgbmu
wzuirwriugqva,gwzknr u gbmuzugquzugakfugbzuu,gkzgakfugysbbrlxgksbgkpgv
zkic,gvgorbbougbkgaswwkzbgvl g rnr ugbmugarxmb,grbgvgorbbouguvauagksz
puvza,gvl gxrnuagxzuvbuzgvaaszvliu;gvagrpgbmutgquzugbmrlxag.tgqmrimgrl
pvoorlxgqugfrxmbgmvnugakfugzuorup;g.sbgbmvbg rzuibgwzuirwriuagqugvzu
lkbgbkgokkcgswklgqrbmksbg.urlxgxr  t;g_Sbg uawrirgnrlugnuzbrxrlu
brfr gkinokzsfgvlrfresuglklgwkaarb:_g“‘Bkgbmvbgklugivllkbgokkcgqrbmksb
 rddrluaa;”gqmrimgragvgfvlrpuabgrfwkabszugkpgbmugarxmbjgVl gbmuzupkzu
rbgqvagbmvbgbmvbgprlugwmrokakwmuzgwsbgksbgmragkqlgutua,gbkgpzuugbmugakso
pzkfg.urlxg rnuzbu g.tgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgmugfrxmbgwmrokakwmrdugvbgxzuvbuz
or.uzbt;g.sb,g.tgbmugavfugzsou,gmugamkso gmvnug vffu gswgmraguvza,
bmvbgBmukwmzvabsagavtagvzugbmugfkabg vlxuzksagrlabzsfulbagv.ksbgsagpkz
zuiurnrlxgnrkoulbgrfwzuaarklagbkgvobuzgvl g rabsz.gsa;gvl ,gprlvoot,
amkso gmvnug uwzrnu gmrfauopgkpgvoogmragkbmuzgaulaua,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gkp
mragorpugvl g.urlx;gpkzgbmutgmvnugvoogbmugwkquzgbkgikffvl gkszgaksogvl 
zuvakl:g_Prbgubrvfgakwugawuirugesâ vf,gakwugnkisfgxzvnrbvbugubgivlbr.sa,
sbgwubbvlbszgvlrfrgnumufulbrsa;gakwugubrvfgiszvgubgbrfkzé,_g“Pkzgrb
kpbulgpvooagksbgbmvbgbmugfrl agvzugfkzugnumufulbotgabzsicg.tgakfugarxmb,
.tgbmugesvorbtgvl gaksl gkpgbmugnkriu,gkzg.tgarlxrlx;gvl gkpbbrfuagvoak
.tgxzrupgvl gpuvzj”gWmtarirvlagmko gbmvbgbmuzugvzugiuzbvrlgikfwouhrkla
bmvbgvzugvxrbvbu g.tgbmugavfugaksl agvl grlabzsfulbagunulgbkgpsztjgR
mvnugauulgakfugqmkgikso glkbgmuvzgvg.klugxlvqu gsl uzgbmugbv.ougqrbmksb
rfwvbruliu;gvl gbmuzugragaivziugvltgfvlgqmkgraglkbg rabsz.u gvbgbmu
amvzwgvl gamzrooglkraugbmvbgbmugprougfvcuagrlgxzvbrlxgswklgbmugrzkl;
vagvoakgbkgmuvzgimuqrlxgluvzgbmuf,gkzgbkgmuvzgvltgklugawuvcgqmkgmvagvl
rfwu rfulbgrlgbmugbmzkvbgkzglkau,gqroogfknugakfugwukwougunulgbkgvlxuz
vl gmvbzu jgKpgqmvbgsaugqvagbmvbgwrwrlxgwzkfwbuzgkpgXzviimsa,gqmk
akpbulu ,gzvrau ,gvl gfknu gmragfvabuz’agnkriugqmroabgmug uiovrfu gvb
Zkfu,grpgbmugfknufulbagvl gesvorbtgkpgbmugaksl gmv glkbgbmugwkquzgbk
fknugvl gvobuzgbmugys xfulbagkpgbmugvs rbkzt?gRlguvzluab,gbmuzugra
qkl uzpsogzuvaklgbkgcuuwgasimgvgiosbbuzgv.ksbgbmugprzfluaagkpgbmragprlu
wruiu,gbmvbgasppuzagrbauopgbkg.ugbszlu gvl gbqrlu g.tgbmugfkbrklgvl 
viir ulbagkpgakgorxmbgvgqrl j

Bmugavfugimuvbgbmvbgbmugaulauagwsbgswklgkszgsl uzabvl rlxgbmutgmvnugrl
bszlgwsbgswklgbmuf;gbmugaksogvoakgakfugbrfuagmvagrbagzunulxu;gbmutgoru
vl giklbul gqmrimgamkso gfkabg uiurnugklugvlkbmuzjgQmvbgqugauugvl gmuvz
qmulgqugvzugbzvlawkzbu gqrbmgwvaarkl,gquglurbmuzgauuglkzgmuvzgvagrb
ra:--


gggUbgakoufgxufrlsf,gubg sworiuagaugkabul uzugBmu.vaj

ggg“Bmu.uagauufagbqkgirbrua,gvl gbmugaslgbqkgaslaj”


Bmugk.yuibgbmvbgqugoknugvwwuvzagbkgsagfkzug.uvsbrpsogbmvlgrbgzuvootgra;


ggggggFsobrfk ragrxrbszgwzvnvagbszwuaesugnr ufsa
gggUaaugrlg uorirra,gasffkesugrlgmklkzugnrxuzu;

gggggg“Muliug‘bragbmvbgsxotgbmrlxagrlgpvliru g zuaa
gggAuufgxvt,gokkcgpvrzgbkgoknuza’gutua,gvl gwouvau;”


vl gbmvbgqugmvbugfkzugsxot;gbkgvg raiklbulbu gvl gvpporibu gfvlgbmu
orxmbgkpgbmug vtgauufag vzcgvl gknuzivabjgKszgaulauagvzuglkbgklot
 uwzvnu ,g.sbgnuztgkpbulgabswupru g.tgbmugwvaarklagkpgbmugakso;gmkqgfvlt
bmrlxag kgqugauugbmvbgqug kglkbgbvcuglkbriugkp,grpgbmugfrl g.ugkiiswru 
qrbmgkbmuzgbmksxmba?


ggggggRlgzu.sageskesugvwuzbraglkaiuzugwkaara,
gggArglklgv nuzbvagvlrfsf,gwzkrl uguaaugesvargkflr
gggBufwkzugaufkbægpsuzrlb,goklxuesugzufkbæ:

gggggg“Lvt,gunulgrlgwovrluabgbmrlxa,gslouaagbmugfrl 
gggBvcugmuu ,gslouaagamugaubagmuzauopgbkgprl ,
gggBmugbmrlxglkgfkzugragauul,glkgfkzug.uokn’ ,
gggBmvlgrpgbmugfkabgk.aiszugvl gfkabgzufkn’ :”


rbgqkso gvwwuvzgbmvbgbmugaksogzubrzuagqrbmrl,gvl gvfsauagbmugwkquzagkp
bmugaulauajgVl gakg.kbmgbmugrlar ugvl gbmugksbar ugkpgfvlgragpsoogkp
rlprzfrbtgvl gpvoaumkk j

Bmutgqmkgmvnugikfwvzu gkszgornuagbkgvg zuvfgquzu,gwuzmvwa,gfkzugrlgbmu
zrxmbgbmvlgbmutgquzugvqvzugkpjgQmulgqug zuvf,gbmugaksogornua,gqkzca,gvl 
uhuzirauagvoogrbagpvisobrua,glurbmuzgfkzuglkzgouaagbmvlgqmulgvqvcu;
.sbgfkzugovzxuotgvl gk.aiszuot,gtubglkbgakgfsim,glurbmuz,gbmvbgbmu
 rppuzuliugamkso g.ugvagxzuvbgvag.ubqrhbglrxmbgvl gbmugfuzr rvl
.zrxmbluaagkpgbmugasl,g.sbgvag.ubqrhbglrxmbgvl gamv u;gbmuzugamugaouuwa,
muzugamugaosf.uza;g.sb,gqmubmuzgfkzugkzgouaa,g‘bragabroog vzc,gvl 
Irffuzrvlg vzcluaajgQugqvcugaouuwrlx,gvl gaouuwgqvcrlxjgRg kglkbgauugak
iouvzotgrlgftgaouuw;g.sbgvagbkgftg.urlxgvqvcu,gRglunuzgpksl grbgiouvz
ulksxmgvl gpzuugpzkfgioks a;gfkzuknuz,gaouuw,gqmulgrbgragwzkpksl ,
akfubrfuagzkicagunulg zuvfagbmufauonuagvaouuw;g.sbgkszgqvcrlxgraglunuz
akgawzrxmbotgbmvbgrbgzrxmbotgwszxuagvl g raarwvbuagbmkaugqmrfarua,gqmrim
vzugqvcrlxg zuvfa,gvl gqkzaugbmvlg zuvfajgKszgzuvaklgvl gaksogzuiurnrlx
bmkaugpvliruagvl gkwrlrklagbmvbgikfugrlg zuvfa,gvl gvsbmkzrdrlxgbmu
vibrklagkpgkszg zuvfagqrbmgbmugorcugvwwzk.vbrklgbmvbgbmutg kgbmkaugkp
bmug vt,gqmuzupkzug kgquglkbg ks.bgqmubmuzgkszgbmksxmb,gkszgvibrkl,gra
lkbgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpg zuvfrlx,gvl gkszgqvcrlxgvgiuzbvrlgcrl gkpgaouuw?

Rpgbmugaulauag.ugkszgprzabgys xua,grbgraglkbgkszagbmvbgqugvzugvoklugbk
iklasob;gpkz,grlgbmragpvisobt,g.uvabagmvnugvagxzuvb,gkzgxzuvbuz,gbmvl
qu;grbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgakfugkpgbmufgmvnugbmugaulaugkpgmuvzrlxgfkzugesric
bmvlgfvl;gkbmuzagbmvbgkpgauurlx,gkbmuzagbmvbgkpgpuuorlx,gkbmuzagbmvb
kpgbksimgvl gbvabujg ufkizrbsagavr ,gbmvbgbmugxk agvl g.zsbuagmv gbmu
aularbrnugpvisobruagfkzugwuzpuibgbmvlgfvljg.sbg.ubqrhbgbmuguppuibagkp
bmurzgaulauagvl gkszagbmug rppuzuliugraguhbzufujgKszgawrbbougiouvlaua
vl g zruagswgkszgqksl a;grbgcrooagbmugauzwulb:--


ggggggBvlbvesugrlgmragzu.vag rabvlbrvg rppuzrbvaesuguab,
gggSbgesk gvorragir.saguab,gvorragpsvbgvizugnululsfj
gggAæwugubulrfgauzwula,gmkfrlragiklbvibvgavornà,
ggg rawuzrb,gvigauaugfvl ul kgiklprirbgrwav:

gggggg“Vl grlgbmkaugbmrlxagbmug rppuzuliugragakgxzuvb
gggBmvbgqmvb’agklu’agwkraklgragvlkbmuz’agfuvb;
gggPkzgauzwulbagkpbulgmvnug.uulgauul,g‘bragavr ,
gggQmulgbksim’ gqrbmgmsfvlgawrbbou,gbkgxkgfv ,
gggVl g.rbugbmufauonuagbkg uvbm:”


qmvbgesvorbtgamvoogqugvbbzr.sbugbkgkszgawrbbou?gvagrbgvppuibagkszauonua,
kzgvagrbgvppuibagbmugauzwulb?g.tgqmrimgkpgbmugbqkgaulauagamvoogqugwzknu
bmugbzsuguaauliugbmvbgqugauucgpkz?

Worltgavtagbmuzugvzugiuzbvrlgauv-mvzuagrlgbmugRl ruagbmvbgvzugwkraklgbk
sa,gvl gqugbkgbmuf;grlakfsimgbmvb,gqrbmgbmugouvabgbksim,gqugcroo
bmufjgQmrimgamvoog.ugbzsotgwkrakl,gbmugfvlgkzgbmugpram?gQmrimgamvoogqu
.uorunu,gbmugpramgkpgbmugfvl,gkzgbmugfvlgkpgbmugpram?gKlugesvorbtgkpgbmu
vrzgrlpuibagvgfvl,gbmvbg kuagbmugkhglkgmvzf;gakfugkbmuzgrlpuibagbmugkh,
.sbgmszbaglkbgbmugfvljgQmrimgkpgbmugbqkgamvoo,grlgbzsbmgvl glvbszu,g.u
bmugwuabroulbgesvorbt?gBkgbmufgqmkgmvnugbmugyvsl riu,gvoogbmrlxagauuf
tuookqgvl gwvouzgbmvlgbkgsa:--


ggggggOszr vgwzæbuzuvgprslb,gesæislesugbsulbszgVzesvbrj

gggggg“.uar ua,gqmvbunuzgyvsl ri’ gutuag kgnruq
gggOkkcagwvougvagquoogvagbmkau,gvl gtuookqgbkkj”


Bmutgqmkgvzugbzks.ou gqrbmgbmug rauvaugbmvbgbmugwmtarirvlagivoo
mtwkawmvxfv--qmrimgragvgasppsarklgkpg.okk gsl uzgbmugacrl--auugvoo
bmrlxagzu gvl g.okk tjgQmvbg kgqugclkqg.sbgbmvbgbmuaugmsfksza,gqmrim
bmsagvobuzgbmugkwuzvbrklagkpgarxmb,gwzu kfrlvbugrlg.uvaba,gvl gvzugsasvo
qrbmgbmuf?gpkzgqugauugakfugqmkaugutuagvzugtuookq,gorcugsagqmkgmvnugbmu
yvsl riu;gvl gkbmuzagkpgvg.okk tgikoksz;g‘bragorcuotgbmvbgbmugikoksza
kpgk.yuibagauufgkbmuzgbkgbmufgbmvlgbkgsajgQmrimgkpgbmugbqkgamvoogfvcu
vgzrxmbgys xfulb?gpkzgrbgraglkbgavr gbmvbgbmuguaauliugkpgbmrlxagmvagv
zuovbrklgbkgfvlgklot;gmvz luaa,gqmrbuluaa,g uwbm,gvl gamvzwluaa,gmvnu
zupuzuliugbkgbmugauznriugvl gclkqou xugkpgvlrfvoagvagquoogvagbkgsa,gvl 
lvbszugmvaguesvootg uarxlu gbmufgpkzgbmurzgsaujgQmulgqugwzuaag kql
bmugutu,gbmug.k tgbmvbgqugokkcgswklgqugwuziurnugbkg.ugoklxuzgvl gfkzu
uhbul u ;--fvltg.uvabagmvnugbmurzgutuagakgwzuaau g kql;gbmragoulxbm,
bmuzupkzu,gragwuzmvwagbmugbzsugpkzfgkpgbmvbg.k t,gvl glkbgbmvbgqmrimgksz
utuagxrnugrbgrlgbmugsasvogabvbujgRpgqugiokaugbmugokquzgwvzbgkpgbmugutu
bmrlxagvwwuvzg ks.ougbkgsa:--


gggggg.rlvgosiufvzsfgprkzulbrvgosfrlvgpovffrajjj
gggUbg sworiuagmkfrlsfgpvirèa,gubgikzwkzvg.rlvj

gggggg“Klugovfwgauufag ks.ou,gvl gbmugfulgvwwuvz
gggUvimgklgbqkg.k ruag ks.ougmuv agbkg.uvzj”


Rpgkszguvzag.ugmrl uzu ,gkzgbmugwvaavxugabkwwu gqrbmgvltgbmrlx,gqu
zuiurnugbmugaksl gesrbugkbmuzqraugbmvlgqugsasvootg k;gvlrfvoa,gorcuqrau,
qmkgmvnugurbmuzgbmuguvzagmvrzt,gkzg.sbgvgnuztgorbbougmkougrlabuv gkpgvl
uvz,g kglkb,giklauesulbot,gmuvzgvagqug k,g.sbgzuiurnugvlkbmuzgcrl gkp
aksl jgQugauugvbgpuabrnvoagvl gbmuvbzuagbmvb,gkwwkarlxgvgwvrlbu gxovaa
kpgvgiuzbvrlgikokszgbkgbmugorxmbgkpgbmugpovf.uvsh,gvoogbmrlxagrlgbmu
woviugvwwuvzgbkgsagxzuul,gtuookq,gkzgnrkoub:--


ggggggUbgnsoxkgpvirslbgr gosbuvgzsaavesugnuov,
gggUbgpuzzsxrlv,gisf,gfvxlragrlbulbvgbmuvbzra,
gggWuzgfvokagnsoxvbvgbzv.uaesu,gbzufulbrvgwul ulb;
gggLvfesugr.rgiklauaasfgivnuvrgas.buz,gubgkfluf
gggAiulvrgawuiruf,gwvbzsf,gfvbzsfesu,g ukzsfesu
gggRlprirslb,gikxslbesugaskgnkorbvzugikokzu:

gggggg“Bmsagqmulgwvougiszbvrla,gkzgbmug uuwuzgzu ,
gggK’uzgvoogbmugawvirksagbmuvbzugvzugawzuv ,
gggQmrimgfrxmbtgfvabagvl gabsz tgwroovzag.uvz,
gggVl gbmugokkaugiszbvrlagqvlbklgrlgbmugvrz;
gggQmkougabzuvfagkpgikokszagpzkfgbmugasffrbgpokq,
gggBmugzvtag rnr ugbmufgrlgbmurzgwvaavxugbmzksxm,
gggVl gabvrlgbmugaiulua,gvl gful,gvl gxk ag.uokq:”


‘bragorcuotgbmvbgbmugutuagkpgvlrfvoa,gqmrimgqugauugbkg.ugkpg rnuza
ikoksza,gwzk siugbmugvwwuvzvliugkpg.k ruagbmugavfugqrbmgbmurzgutuaj

Qugamkso ,gbmuzupkzu,gbkgfvcugvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkpgbmugkwwkarbrklagkp
bmugaulaua,g.ugprzabgvxzuu gqrbmg.uvaba,gvl gauikl otgvfklxabgkszauonua;
qmrimgqug.tglkgfuvlagvzu,g.sbgulbuzgrlbkg rawsbugunuztgbrfugbmvbgklu
muvza,gauua,gkzgbvabuagakfubmrlxgkbmuzqraugbmvlgvlkbmuzg kua,gvl 
iklbuaba,gvagfsimgvagswklgvltgkbmuzgbmrlx,gv.ksbgbmug rnuzarbtgkpgbmu
rfvxuagbmvbgbmugaulauagzuwzuaulbgbkgsajgVgimro ,g.tgbmugkz rlvztgzsougkp
lvbszu,gmuvza,gauua,gvl gbvocagkbmuzqraugbmvlgvgfvlgkpgbmrzbtgtuvzagko ;
vl gmugbmvlgklugkpgbmzuuaikzujgBmugaulauagvzu,grlgakfu,gfkzugk.aiszugvl 
 sact,gvl gfkzugkwulgvl gesricgrlgkbmuzajgQugzuiurnugbmrlxagnvzrksaot,
viikz rlxgvagqugvzu,gvl gviikz rlxgvagbmutgvwwuvzgbkgsajgBmkaugzrlxa
qmrimgvzugisbgksbgrlgbmugpkzfgkpgpuvbmuza,gqmrimgvzugivoou g_ul ouaa
puvbmuza_,glkgutugivlg raiuzlgbmurzgardu,gkzgivlgcuuwgrbauopgpzkfgbmu
 uiuwbrklgbmvbgklgklugar ugbmutgulovzxu,gvl gklgbmugkbmuzgiklbzvib,gvl 
ikfugAkgvgwkrlb,gunulgqmulgbmugzrlxgrag.urlxgbszlu gzksl gbmugprlxuz;
tub,gqmulgtksgpuuogbmuf,gbmutgauufgvoogkpgvlguesvogardujgLkq,gksz
wuziuwbrklg.urlxgakgsliuzbvrlgvl gakgiklbzknuzbu ,grbgraglkgfkzugv
qkl uzgrpgqugvzugbko gbmvbgqugfvtg uiovzugbmvbgalkqgvwwuvzagqmrbugbkgsa;
.sbgbmvbgbkgvpprzfgbmvbgrbgragrlgrbagkqlguaauliugzuvootgakgragfkzu
bmvlgqugvzugv.ougbkgysabrpt;gvl ,gbmragpksl vbrklg.urlxgamvcul,gvoo
bmugclkqou xugrlgbmugqkzo gfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgpvoogbkgzsrljgQmvb!g k
kszgaulauagbmufauonuagmrl uzgklugvlkbmuz?gVgwribszugauufagzvrau gvl 
uf.kaau gbkgbmugarxmb;grlgbmugmvl orlxgrbgauufagpovbgbkgbmugbksimj
Amvoogqugavtgbmvbgfsac,gqmrimg uorxmbagbmugafuoo,gvl gragkppularnugbk
bmugbvabu,gragvxzuuv.ougkzglk?gBmuzugvzugmuz.agvl gslxsulbagwzkwuzgpkz
klugwvzbgk£gbmug.k t,gbmvbgvzugmszbpsogbkgvlkbmuz;gmklutgragwouvavlbgbk
bmugbvabu,g.sbgkppularnugbkgbmugarxmbjgBmutgqmk,gbkgvaarabgbmurzgosab,
sau grlgvlirulbgbrfuagbkgfvcugsaugkpgfvxlrptrlx-xovaauagbkgzuwzuaulbgbmu
fuf.uzagbmutgquzugbkgufwoktg.rxxuz,g.tgbmvbgkisovzgbsfr rbtgbkgwouvau
bmufauonuagbmugfkzu;gbkgqmrimgkpgbmurzgaulauag r gbmutgxrnugbmu
wzrdu,--qmubmuzgbkgbmugarxmb,gbmvbgzuwzuaulbu gbmugfuf.uzagvagovzxugvl 
xzuvbgvagbmutgqkso g uarzu,gkzgbkgbmugpuuorlx,gqmrimgzuwzuaulbu gbmuf
orbbougvl giklbufwbr.ou?gVzugbmutgkszgaulauagbmvbgaswwotgbmugas.yuib
qrbmgbmuaug rppuzulbgikl rbrkla,gvl gmvnugbmugas.yuibagbmufauonua,
lunuzbmuouaa,g.sbgklu?gVagqugauugrlgbmug.zuv gquguvb,grbgraglkbmrlxg.sb
.zuv ,g.sb,g.tg.urlxguvbul,grbg.uikfuag.klua,g.okk ,gpouam,gmvrz;gvl 
lvroa:--


ggggggSbgir.sagrlgfuf.zvgvbesugvzbsagisfg r rbszgkflua,
ggg rawuzrb,,gvbesugvorvfglvbszvfgaspprirbguhgau;

gggggg“Vagfuvba,g rppsa’ gbmzksxmgvoogbmugfuf.uza,gokau
gggBmurzgpkzfuzgabvbu,gvl g rppuzulbgbmrlxagikfwkau;”


bmugmsfr rbtgasicu gswg.tgbmugzkkbgkpgvgbzuug.uikfuagbzslc,gouvp,gvl 
pzsrb;gvl gbmugvrz,g.urlxg.sbgklu,gragfk sovbu ,grlgvgbzsfwub,gbkgv
bmksavl gakzbagkpgaksl a;gvzugbmutgkszgaulaua,gRgqkso gpvrlgclkq,gbmvb,
rlgorcugfvlluz,gpkzfgbmuaugas.yuibagrlbkgakgfvltg rnuzagesvorbrua,gkz
mvnugbmutgbmufgzuvootgasimgrlgbmufauonua?gVl gswklgbmrag ks.bgqmvbgivl
qug ubuzfrlugkpgbmurzgbzsuguaauliu?gFkzuknuz,garliugbmugviir ulbagkp
 rauvau,gkpgzvnrlx,gkzgaouuw,gfvcugbmrlxagvwwuvzgkbmuzqraugbkgsagbmvl
bmutg kgbkgbmugmuvobmpso,gbmugqrau,gvl gbmkaugbmvbgvzugvqvcu,gragrb
lkbgorcuotgbmvbgkszgzrxmbgwkabszugkpgmuvobmgvl gsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gksz
lvbszvogmsfksza,gmvnu,gvoak,gqmuzuqrbmgbkgxrnugvg.urlxgbkgbmrlxa
bmvbgmvnugvgzuovbrklgbkgbmurzgkqlgikl rbrkl,gvl gviikffk vbugbmufgbk
bmufauonua,gvagquoogvagqmulgbmutgvzug rakz uzu ;--bmvbgmuvobmgragva
ivwv.ougkpgxrnrlxgbmufgvlgvawuibgvagaricluaa?gQmtgmvaglkbgbmugbufwuzvbu
vgiuzbvrlgpkzfgkpgk.yuibagzuovbrnugbkgrb,gvagquoogvagbmugrlbufwuzvbu?
vl gqmtgfvtgrbglkbgvagquoogabvfwgrbgqrbmgrbagkqlgimvzvibuzgvagbmugkbmuz?
Mugqmkaugfksbmgragksbgkpgbvabu,gavtagbmugqrlugragpovb;gbmugmuvobmpsogfvl
ikfful agrbagpovnksz,gvl gbmugbmrzabtgrbag.zracluaajgLkq,gkszgikl rbrkl
voqvtagviikffk vbrlxgbmrlxagbkgrbauop,gvl gbzvlapkzfrlxgbmufgviikz rlx
bkgrbagkqlgwkabszu,gqugivllkbgclkqgqmvbgbmrlxagbzsotgvzugrlgbmufauonua,
auurlxgbmvbglkbmrlxgikfuagbkgsag.sbgqmvbgragpvoarpru gvl gvobuzu g.tgbmu
aulauajgQmuzugbmugikfwvaa,gbmugaesvzu,gvl gbmugzsou,gvzugizkkcu ,gvoo
wzkwkarbrklag zvqlgbmuliu,gvl gvoog.sro rlxaguzuibu g.tgbmkaugxsr ua,
fsab,gkpgluiuaarbt,g.ugvoakg upuibrnu;gbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgkszgaulaua
zul uzagunuztgbmrlxgsliuzbvrlgbmvbgbmutgwzk siu:--


gggggg ulresugsbgrlgpv.zriâ,gargwzvnvguabgzéxsovgwzrfv,
gggLkzfvesugargpvoovhgzuibragzuxrklr.saguhrb,
gggUbgor.uoovgvoresâgarguhgwvzbugiovs rivbgmrosf;
gggKflrvgful kaugpruzr,gvbesugk.abrwvgluiuaasfguab,
gggWzvnv,gis.vlbrv,gwzklv,gaswrlv,gvbesugv.aklvgbuibv;
gggYvfgzsuzugsbgesæ vfgnr uvlbsh’nuoou,gzsvlbesu
gggWzk rbvgys rirragpvoovir.sagkflrvgwzrfra;
gggArigrxrbszgzvbrkgbr.rgzuzvfgwzvnvgluiuaauguab,
gggPvoavesugarb,gpvoaragesæislesugv.gaular.sagkzbvguabj

gggggg“.sbgovabot,gvagrlg.sro rlx,grpgbmugorlu
ggg.uglkbguhvibgvl gabzvrxmb,gbmugzsoug uiorlu,
gggKzgounuogpvoau,gmkqgnvrlgragbmug uarxl!
gggSlunul,gvlgroo-amvw’ gvl gbkbbuzrlxgqvoo
gggFsabgzrau;gbmragwvzbgfsabgarlc,gbmvbgwvzbgfsabgpvoo,
ggg.uivsaugbmugzsouagquzugpvoaugbmvbgpvamrkl’ gvoo;
gggBmsagzuvakl’agzsouagvzugpvoaugrpgvoogikffuliu
gggVl gzraugpzkfgpvrorlxgvl gpzkfguzzrlxgaulauj”


Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,gqmkgivlg.ugprbgbkgys xugkpgvl gbkg ubuzfrlugbmkau
 rppuzuliua?gVagqugavtgrlgiklbzknuzaruagkpgzuorxrklgbmvbgqugfsabgmvnu
vgys xuglurbmuzgrliorlrlxgbkgbmugklugar uglkzgbmugkbmuz,gpzuugpzkfgvoo
imkriugvl gvppuibrkl,gqmrimgivllkbg.ugvfklxabgImzrabrvla,gysabgakgrb
pvooagksbgrlgbmra;gpkzgrpgmug.ugko gmugivllkbgys xugkpgbmugaulaugkp
ko gvxu,g.urlxgmrfauopgvgwvzbtgrlgbmugivau;grpgtkslx,gbmuzugragbmugavfu
uhiuwbrkl;grpgmuvobmpso,garic,gvaouuw,gkzgvqvcu,gmugragabroogbmu
avfugrlikfwubulbgys xujgQugfsabgmvnugakfugkluguhufwbgpzkfgvoogbmuau
wzkwkarbrkla,gvagkpgbmrlxagrl rppuzulbgbkgmrf;gvl g.tgbmragzsougqugfsab
mvnugvgys xugbmvbglunuzgqvaj

Bkgys xugkpgbmugvwwuvzvliuagbmvbgqugzuiurnugkpgas.yuiba,gqugksxmbgb
mvnugvg uir rlxgrlabzsfulb;gbkgnuzrptgbmragrlabzsfulbgqugfsabgmvnu
 ufklabzvbrkl;gbkgnuzrptgbmrag ufklabzvbrklgvlgrlabzsfulb;gvl gmuzu
qugvzugzksl gvxvrlgswklgbmugqmuuo,gvl glkgpszbmuzgv nvliu jgAuurlx
bmugaulauagivllkbg ubuzfrlugkszg rawsbu,g.urlxgpsoogkpgsliuzbvrlbt
bmufauonua,grbgfsabgbmulg.ugzuvaklgbmvbgfsabg kgrb;g.sbglkgzuvaklgivlg.u
uzuibu gswklgvltgkbmuzgpksl vbrklgbmvlgbmvbgkpgvlkbmuzgzuvakl;gvl gakgqu
zslg.vicgbkgvoogrlprlrbtjgKszgpvlitg kuaglkbgvwwotgrbauopgbkgbmrlxagbmvb
vzugabzvlxu,g.sbgragikliurnu g.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgbmugaulaua;gvl gbmu
aulauag kglkbgikfwzumul gvgpkzurxlgas.yuib,g.sbgklotgbmurzgkqlgwvaarkla;
.tgqmrimgfuvlagpvlitgvl gvwwuvzvliugvzuglkgwvzbgkpgbmugas.yuib,g.sbgklot
kpgbmugwvaarklgvl gasppuzvliugkpgaulau;gqmrimgwvaarklgvl gas.yuibgvzu
 rppuzulbgbmrlxa;gqmuzupkzugqmkunuzgys xuag.tgvwwuvzvliuagys xuag.t
vlkbmuzgbmrlxgbmvlgbmugas.yuibjgVl gbkgavtgbmvbgbmugwvaarklagkp
bmugaulauagiklnutgbkgbmugaksogbmugesvorbtgkpgpkzurxlgas.yuibag.t
zuauf.ovliu,gmkqgivlgbmugaksogvl gsl uzabvl rlxg.ugvaaszu gkpgbmra
zuauf.ovliu,gmvnrlxgkpgrbauopglkgikffuziugqrbmgpkzurxlgas.yuiba?gVagbmut
qmkglunuzgcluqgAkizvbuagivllkb,gqmulgbmutgauugmragwribszu,gavtgrbgra
orcugmrfjgLkq,gqmkunuzgqkso ,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gys xug.tgvwwuvzvliua,grp
rbg.ug.tgvoo,grbgragrfwkaar.ou,g.uivsaugbmutgmrl uzgklugvlkbmuzg.tgbmurz
iklbzvzrubruagvl g raizuwvlirua,gvagqug.tguhwuzruliugauu:gamvoogakfu
auouibgvwwuvzvliuagxknuzlgbmugzuab?gtksgfsabgnuzrptgbmragauouibg.t
vlkbmuzgauouib,gbmugauikl g.tgvgbmrz ,gvl gbmsagbmuzugqrooglunuzg.u
vltgul gbkgrbjgPrlvoot,gbmuzugraglkgiklabvlbguhrabuliu,glurbmuzgkpgbmu
k.yuiba’g.urlxglkzgkszgkql;g.kbmgqu,gvl gkszgys xfulba,gvl gvoogfkzbvo
bmrlxa,gvzugunuzfkzugrliuaavlbotgzsllrlxgvl gzkoorlx;gvl giklauesulbot
lkbmrlxgiuzbvrlgivlg.uguabv.oramu gpzkfgbmugklugbkgbmugkbmuz,g.kbmgbmu
ys xrlxgvl gbmugys xu g.urlxgrlgvgiklbrlsvogfkbrklgvl gfsbvbrklj

Qugmvnuglkgikffslrivbrklgqrbmg.urlx,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgvoogmsfvlglvbszugra
voqvtagrlgbmugfr  ou,g.ubqrhbg.urlxg.kfgvl g trlx,gxrnrlxg.sbgvlgk.aiszu
vwwuvzvliugvl gamv kq,gvgquvcgvl gsliuzbvrlgkwrlrklgkpgrbauop;gvl grp,
wuzmvwa,gtksgprhgtkszgbmksxmbgbkgvwwzumul gtkszg.urlx,grbgqkso g.ug.sb
orcugxzvawrlxgqvbuz;gpkzgbmugfkzugtksgiosbimgtkszgmvl gbkgaesuudugvl 
mko gqmvbgragrlgrbagkqlglvbszugpokqrlx,gakgfsimgfkzugtksgokaugkpgqmvb
tksgqkso gxzvawgvl gmko jgAk,gauurlxgbmvbgvoogbmrlxagvzugas.yuibgbk
wvaagpzkfgklugimvlxugbkgvlkbmuz,gzuvakl,gbmvbgbmuzugokkcagpkzgvgzuvo
as.abvliu,gprl agrbauopg uiurnu ,glkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgvwwzumul gvltgbmrlx
bmvbgragas.arabulbgvl gwuzfvlulb,g.uivsaugbmvbgunuztgbmrlxgragurbmuz
ulbuzrlxgrlbkg.urlx,gvl graglkbgtubgvzzrnu gvbgrb,gkzg.uxrlagbkg ru
.upkzugrbgrag.kfjgWovbkgavr ,gbmvbg.k ruagmv glunuzgvltguhrabuliu,g.sb
klotg.rzbm;gikliurnrlxgbmvbgMkfuzgmv gfv ugbmugKiuvlgvl gBmubragpvbmuz
vl gfkbmuzgkpgbmugxk a,gbkgamkqgsagbmvbgvoogbmrlxagvzugrlgvgwuzwubsvo
posibsvbrkl,gfkbrkl,gvl gnvzrvbrkl;gbmugkwrlrklgkpgvoogbmugwmrokakwmuza,
vagmugavta,g.upkzugmragbrfu,gWvzfulr uagklotguhiuwbu ,gqmkgqkso glkb
vookqgbmrlxagbkgmvnugfkbrkl,gklgbmugwkquzgqmuzukpgmugaubagvgfrxmbt
nvosujgWtbmvxkzvagqvagkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgvoogfvbbuzgqvagpokqrlxgvl 
slabv.ou;gbmugAbkria,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgbrfugwzuaulb,gvl gbmvbgqmvbgqu
ivoogakgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugyslibszugvl gfuubrlxgkpgbmugpsbszugvl gbmu
wvab;gMuzviorbsa,gbmvbglunuzgvltgfvlgulbuzu gbqriugrlbkgbmugavfugzrnuz;
Uwrimvz-fsa,gbmvbgmugqmkg.kzzkqu gfklutg.sbgvlgmkszgvxkg kuaglkbgkqu
rbglkq;gvl gbmvbgmugqmkgqvagrlnrbu gknuz-lrxmbgbkgikfugbmugluhbg vtgbk
 rlluzgikfuaglunuzbmuouaagslrlnrbu ,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgbmutgvzuglkgfkzu
bmugavfugful,g.sbgvzug.uikfugkbmuza;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugikso glkbgvgfkzbvo
as.abvliug.ugpksl gbqriugrlgbmugavfugikl rbrkl;gpkz,g.tgbmugas  ulluaa
vl gesricluaagkpgbmugimvlxu,grbgklugqmroug rawuzaua,gvl gvlkbmuz
zuslrbua;grbgikfuagvl gxkuagvpbuzgasimgvgfvlluzgbmvbgqmvbg.uxrlagbkg.u
.kzlglunuzgvzzrnuagbkgbmugwuzpuibrklgkpg.urlx,gpkzvafsimgvagbmvbg.rzbm
raglunuzgprlramu gvl glunuzgabvta,gvag.urlxgvbgvlgul ,g.sbgpzkfgbmugauu 
ragunuzfkzugimvlxrlxgvl gamrpbrlxgklugbkgvlkbmuz;gvagmsfvlgauu gragprzab
rlgbmugfkbmuz’agqkf.gfv ugvgpkzfouaaguf.ztk,gvpbuzg uornuzu gbmuliugv
asicrlxgrlpvlb,gvpbuzqvz agrbg.uikfuagvg.kt,gbmulgvgtksbm,gbmulgvgfvl,
vl gvbgovabgvg uizuwrbgko gfvl;gakgbmvbgvxugvl gas.auesulbgxuluzvbrklgra
voqvtag uabzktrlxgvl gawkrorlxgbmvbgqmrimgqulbg.upkzu:--


ggggggFsbâbgulrzvgfsl rglvbszvfgbkbrsagæbva,
gggUhgvorkesugvorsagabvbsaguhirwuzugkflrvg u.ub;
gggLuigfvlubgsoovgasrgarfroragzua;gkflrvgfrxzvlb,
gggKflrvgikffsbâbglvbszv,gubgnuzbuzugikxrbj

gggggg“Pkzgbrfugbmuglvbszugkpgbmugqkzo gbzvlaovbua,
gggVl gpzkfgwzuiu rlxgxrnuagvoogbmrlxagluqgabvbua;
gggLksxmbgorcugrbauopgzufvrla,g.sbgvoog kgzvlxu,
gggVl glvbszugpkziuagunuztgbmrlxgbkgimvlxuj”


“Vl gtubgqugpkkoramotgpuvzgklugcrl gkpg uvbm,gqmuzuvagqugmvnugvozuv t
wvaau ,gvl g kg vrotgwvaa,gakgfvltgkbmuza;gpkzglkbgklot,gvagMuzviorbsa
avr ,gbmug uvbmgkpgprzugragxuluzvbrklgkpgvrz,gvl gbmug uvbmgkpgvrz
xuluzvbrklgkpgqvbuz;g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gqugfvtgfkzugfvlrpuabotg raiuzlgrbgrl
kszauonua;gfvlmkk g rua,gvl gwvaauagvqvtgqmulgvxugikfuagkl;gvl gtksbmgra
buzfrlvbu grlgbmugpokquzgkpgvxugkpgvgpsoo-xzkqlgfvl,grlpvlitgrlgtksbm,
vl gbmugprzabgvxug ruagrlgrlpvlit;gtuabuz vtg ru grlgbk- vt,gvl gbk- vt
qroog rugrlgbk-fkzzkq;gvl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgzufvrlagrlgbmugavfu
abvbu,gkzgbmvbgragvoqvtagbmugavfugbmrlxjgVl gbmvbgrbgragakgoubgbmrag.u
bmugwzkkp;grpgqugvzugvoqvtagklugvl gbmugavfu,gmkqgikfuagrbgbkgwvaagbmvb
qugvzuglkqgwouvau gqrbmgklugbmrlx,gvl g.tgvl g.tgqrbmgvlkbmuz?gMkq
ikfuagrbgbkgwvaagbmvbgqugoknugkzgmvbugiklbzvztgbmrlxa,gbmvbgqugwzvrau
kzgikl uflgbmuf?gMkqgikfuagrbgbkgwvaagbmvbgqugmvnug rppuzulbgvppuibrkla,
vl glkgfkzugzubvrlgbmugavfugaulbrfulbgrlgbmugavfugbmksxmb?gPkzgrbgraglkb
orcuotgbmvbgqrbmksbgfsbvbrklgqugamkso gvaasfugkbmuzgwvaarkla;gvl ,gbmvb
qmrimgasppuzagfsbvbrklg kuaglkbgzufvrlgbmugavfu,gvl grpgrbg.uglkbgbmu
avfugrbgraglkbgvbgvoo;g.sbgbmugavfugbmvbgbmug.urlxgrag kua,gorcugrb,
slclkqrlxotgimvlxugvl gvobuz;g.uikfrlxgunuzfkzugvlkbmuzgpzkfgvlkbmuz
bmrlx;gvl giklauesulbotgbmuglvbszvogaulauagv.saugvl g uiurnugbmufauonua,
bvcrlxgbmvbgqmrimgauufagpkzgbmvbgqmrimgra,gpkzgqvlbgkpgquoogclkqrlx
qmvbgbmvbgqmrimgra,grajg.sbgqmvbgragrbgbmulgbmvbgbzsotgra?gBmvbgqmrimgra
ubuzlvo;gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmvbglunuzgmv g.uxrllrlx,glkzglunuzgamvoogmvnu
ul rlx,gvl gbkgqmrimgbrfugivlg.zrlxglkgfsbvbrkljgPkzgbrfugragvgfk.rou
bmrlu,gvl gbmvbgvwwuvzagvagrlgvgamv kq,gqrbmgvgfvbbuzgunuzfkzugpokqrlx
vl gzsllrlx,gqrbmksbgunuzgzufvrlrlxgabv.ougvl gwuzfvlulb;gvl gbkgqmrim
.uoklxgbmkaugqkz a,g_.upkzugvl gvpbuz,gmvag.uul,gkzgamvoog.u:_gqmrimgvb
bmugprzabgarxmb,gunr ulbotgamkqgbmvbgrbgraglkbgvgbmrlxgbmvbgra;gpkzgrb
quzugvgxzuvbgpkoot,gvl gvgfvlrpuabgpvoarbt,gbkgavtgbmvbgbmvbgragqmrimgra
lkbgÿubg.urlx,gkzgbmvbgmvagvozuv tgiuvau gbkg.ujgVl gvagbkgbmuaugqkz a,
_wzuaulb,grlabvlb,gvl glkq_,g.tgqmrimgrbgauufagbmvbgqugwzrlirwvoot
aswwkzbgvl gpksl gbmugrlbuoorxuliugkpgbrfu,gzuvakl,g raiknuzrlx,g kua
wzuaulbotg uabzktgrb;gpkzgrbgrffu rvbuotg rnr uagvl gaworbagrbgrlbkgbmu
_psbszugvl gwvab_,g.urlxgkpgluiuaarbtgbkgiklar uzgrbg rnr u grlgbqkjgBmu
avfugmvwwulagbkglvbszu,gbmvbgragfuvaszu ,gvagbkgbrfugbmvbgfuvaszuagrb;
pkzgamugmvaglkbmrlxgfkzugas.arabrlxgvl gwuzfvlulbgbmvlgbmugkbmuz,g.sb
voogbmrlxagvzugurbmuzg.kzl,g.uvzrlx,gkzg trlxjgAkgbmvbgrbgquzugarlpsogbk
avtgkpgXk ,gqmkgragmugklotgqmkg_ra,gbmvbgmugqva,gkzgbmvbgmugamvoog.ug_;
pkzgbmkaugvzugbuzfagkpg uioularkl,gbzvlafsbvbrkl,gvl gnriraarbs u,gkp
qmvbgivllkbgiklbrlsugkzgzufvrlgrlg.urlx;gqmuzupkzugqugvzugbkgiklios u
bmvbgXk gvoklugra,glkbgviikz rlxgbkgvltgfuvaszugkpgbrfu,g.sbgviikz rlx
bkgvlgrffsbv.ougvl gvlgrffknv.ougubuzlrbt,glkbgfuvaszu g.tgbrfu,glkz
as.yuibgbkgvltg uioularkl;g.upkzugqmkfglkbmrlxgqva,gvl gvpbuzgqmkf
lkbmrlxgamvoog.u,gurbmuzgfkzugluqgkzgfkzugzuiulb,g.sbgvgzuvog.urlx,gbmvb
qrbmgklugakouglkqgprooagbmugpkzgunuz,gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvb
bzsotgrag.sbgmugvoklu;gqrbmksbgkszg.urlxgv.ougbkgavt,g_mugmvag.uul,gkz
amvoog.u_;gqrbmksbg.uxrllrlx,gvl gqrbmksbgul j”gBkgbmragakgzuorxrksa
ikliosarklgkpgvgwvxvlgRgamvoogklotgv  gbmragbuabrfkltgkpgklugkpgbmugavfu
ikl rbrkl,gpkzgbmugiokaugkpgbmragoklxgvl gbu rksag raikszau,gqmrimgqkso 
pszlramgfugqrbmgul ouaagfvbbuz:g“Qmvbgvgnrougvl gv.yuibgbmrlx,”gavtagmu,
“ragfvl,grpgmug kglkbgzvraugmrfauopgv.knugmsfvlrbt!”g‘Bragvgxkk gqkz 
vl gvgwzkprbv.oug uarzu,g.sbgqrbmvogv.asz ;gpkzgbkgfvcugbmugmvl ou
.rxxuzgbmvlgbmugmvl ,gbmugis.rigoklxuzgbmvlgbmugvzf,gvl gbkgmkwu
bkgabzr ugpszbmuzgbmvlgkszgouxagivlgzuvim,grag.kbmgrfwkaar.ougvl 
fklabzksa;gkzgbmvbgfvlgamkso gzraugv.knugmrfauopgvl gmsfvlrbt;gpkzgmu
ivllkbgauug.sbgqrbmgmragutua,glkzgaurdug.sbgqrbmgmragmko jgMugamvoo
.uguhvobu ,grpgXk gqroogoul gmrfgvlguhbzvkz rlvztgmvl ;gmugamvooguhvob
mrfauop,g.tgv.vl klrlxgvl gzulkslirlxgmragkqlgwzkwuzgfuvla,gvl g.t
asppuzrlxgmrfauopgbkg.ugzvrau gvl guounvbu g.tgfuvlagwszuotgiuouabrvoj
Rbg.uoklxagbkgkszgImzrabrvlgpvrbm,gvl glkbgbkgbmugabkrivognrzbsu,gbk
wzubul gbkgbmvbg rnrlugvl gfrzvisoksagfubvfkzwmkaraj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgorbbougimuuaugqmulgvgfrl gbkgfvcugvgpuvab
gggggVgqkz groogbvculgk.orbuzvbuagbulgtuvza’gfuzrb
gggggIvbkgavr :gAkgfvltgauznvlba,gakgfvltgulufrua
gggggImuzramgbmufauonuagfkabgqmuzugbmutgvzugfkabgqzklx
gggggIkl uflgvoognrkouliugrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgvgbul uzgakso
gggggIzsuobtgragbmugnuztguhbzufugkpgvoognriua
ggggg raxsrau,g.tgbmurzgv.zr xfulbagvl gvbgbmurzgkqlgimkriu
gggggUwriszsa
gggggPovbbuzuzgrlgtkszgko gvxugkzgrlgtkszgaricluaa
gggggMugpuobgvgwouvaszugvl g uorxmbgrlgakglk.ougvlgvibrkl
gggggMugys xu gkbmuzgfulg.tgmrfauop
gggggRgivllkbgquoogzupsaugbkgwovtgqrbmgftg kx
gggggRg kglkbgfsimgovfulbgbmug uv ,gvl gamkso gulntgbmufgzvbmuz
gggggRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugko gvg.zrupgbrfu,gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugko gvxu
gggggRgkqugrbgzvbmuzgbkgftgpkzbslugbmvlgftgzuvakl
gggggRliorlugbmugmrabkztgbkgbmurzgkqlgpvlit
gggggRbg(ftg.kkca)gfvtgclkqgfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugxklugpzkfgfu
gggggClkqou xugvl gbzsbmgfvtg.ugrlgsagqrbmksbgys xfulb
gggggOuvzlgbmugbmukztgpzkfgbmkaugqmkg.uabgclkqgbmugwzvibriu
gggggOknu gbmufgpkzgkszgawkzb,gorcugfklcuta,gvl glkbgvagful
gggggFkbrnugbkgakfugnrirksagkiivarklgkzgakfugwzkawuibgkpgwzkprb
gggggFtg.kkca:gpzkfgfugmko gbmvbgqmrimgRgmvnuglkbgzubvrlu 
gggggFtg kxgslauvaklv.otgrfwkzbsluagfugbkgwovt
gggggFtgrllkiuliugragvgarfwougklu;gorbbougnrxkszgvl glkgvzbj
gggggLunuzgk.auznu gvltgxzuvbgabv.rorbtgrlgftgaksogbkgzuarabgwvaarkla
gggggLkbmrlxgbufwbagftgbuvzag.sbgbuvza
gggggKfrb,gvagrlizu r.ou,gasimgbmrlxagvagbmutg kglkbgsl uzabvl 
gggggKlgvoogkiivarklagbkgiklbzv ribgvl gkwwkau
gggggKlotg uarzugbkg.uikfugfkzugqrau,glkbgfkzugouvzlu gkzguokesulb
gggggWvaarklgkpg vl orlxgvl givzuaarlxgrlpvlbagaivziuotg.kzl
gggggWuzpuibrkl:g.sbgRgqrooglkbg.stgrbgakg uvzgvagrbgikaba
gggggWovbkgqroogmvnuglk.k tgfvzztg.upkzugbmrzbt
gggggWzs ulbgvl gysabgfvlgfvtg.ugrlbufwuzvbugvl grliklarabulb
gggggWsuzrougarfworirbruagkpgkszgimro zul
gggggAmuobuzgftgkqlgquvcluaagsl uzgbmuaugxzuvbgzuwsbvbrkla
gggggAkizvbuagcuwbgvgiklpksl u gaiko rlxgqrpu
gggggBmugvsbmkza,gqrbmgqmkfgRgiklnuzau
gggggBmuzugraglkgzuikfwulaug.uikfuagnrzbsu
gggggBkg kgquoogqmuzugbmuzugqvag vlxuzgqvagbmugwzkwuzgkppriu
gggggBkgqmkfglkgklugragroogqmkgivlg.ugxkk ?
gggggBszcagmvnugvofagvl gmkawrbvoagpkzg.uvaba
gggggNriuagqroogiorlxgbkxubmuz,grpgvgfvlgmvnuglkbgvgivzu
gggggNrzbsugragfsimgabzulxbmulu g.tgikf.vba
gggggNrzbsugzupsauagpvirorbtgpkzgvgikfwvlrkl






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg11j

HRRRjgggggKpgys xrlxgkpgbmug uvbmgkpgvlkbmuzj
HRNjggggggBmvbgbmugfrl gmrl uzagrbauopj
HNjgggggggBmvbgkszg uarzuagvzugvsxfulbu g.tg rpprisobtj
HNRjggggggKpgxokztj
HNRRjgggggKpgwzuasfwbrklj



IMVWBUZgHRRR

KPgYS XRLXgKPgBMUg UVBMgKPgVLKBMUZ

Qmulgqugys xugkpgvlkbmuz’agvaaszvliugrlg uvbm,gqmrim,gqrbmksbg ks.b,gra
bmugfkabgzufvzcv.ougvibrklgkpgmsfvlgorpu,gqugvzugbkgbvcugmuu gkpgklu
bmrlx,gqmrimgragbmvbgfulgnuztgmvz otg.uorunugbmufauonuagbkgmvnugvzzrnu 
bkgbmvbgwuzrk jggPuqgfulgikfugbkg rugrlgbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgrbgragbmurz
ovbuabgmksz;gvl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgqmuzurlgbmugpovbbuztgkpgmkwugfkzu
 uos uagsa;gRbglunuzgiuvauagbkgqmrawuzgrlgkszguvza,g“Kbmuzagmvnug.uul
fsimgaricuzgqrbmksbg trlx;gtkszgikl rbrklgraglkbgakg uawuzvbugvag‘bra
bmksxmb;gvl ,gvbgbmugqkzab,gXk gmvag klugkbmuzgfrzviouaj”ggQmrimgmvwwula
.tgzuvaklgbmvbgqugaubgbkkgfsimgnvosugswklgkszauonua;grbgauufagvagrpgbmu
slrnuzavorbtgkpgbmrlxagquzugrlgakfugfuvaszugbkgasppuzg.tgkszg raakosbrkl,
vl gbmvbgrbgikffrauzvbuagkszgikl rbrkl,gpkzvafsimgvagkszg rabsz.u garxmb
zuwzuaulbagbmrlxagbkgrbauopguzzkluksaot,gvl gbmvbgqugvzugkpgkwrlrklgbmut
abvl grlgvagfsimgluu gkpgsagvagqug kgkpgbmuf,gorcugwukwougvbgauv,gbkgqmkf
fkslbvrla,gpruo a,girbrua,gmuvnulgvl guvzbmgvzugbkaau gvbgbmugavfugzvbu
vagbmutgvzu:

gggggggggg“Wzknumrfszgwkzbs,gbuzzvuesugsz.uaesugzuiu slb:”

gggggggggg[“Qugavrogksbgkpgwkzb,gvl girbruagvl govl agzuiu uj”
ggggggggggg--VUlur ,grrrjg72j]

Qmkunuzgavqgko gvxugbmvbg r glkbgvwwovs gbmugwvabgvl gikl uflgbmugwzuaulb
brfu,govtrlxgbmugpvsobgkpgmragfrauztgvl g raiklbulbgswklgbmugqkzo gvl 
bmugfvlluzagkpgful?

gggggggggg“Yvfesugivwsbgesvaavla,gxzvl ragasawrzvbgvzvbkzj
ggggggggggUbgisfgbufwkzvgbufwkzr.sagwzvuaulbrvgiklpuzb
ggggggggggWzvubuzrbra,govs vbgpkzbslvagavuwugwvzulbra,
ggggggggggUbgizuwvbgvlbressfgxulsagsbgwrubvbugzuwoubsfj”

ggggg[“Lkqgbmugko gwoksxmfvl,gamvcrlxgmragmuv ,garxma,gvl gikfwvzua
gggggwzuaulbgbrfuagqrbmgwvab,gkpbulgwzvrauagmragwvzulba’gmvwwrluaa,gvl 
gggggbvocagkpgbmugko gzviugvagpsoogkpgwrubtj”--Osizubrsa,grrjg1165j]

Qugqroogfvcugvoogbmrlxagxkgvoklxgqrbmgsa;gqmuliugrbgpkookqagbmvbgqu
iklar uzgkszg uvbmgvagvgnuztgxzuvbgbmrlx,gvl gbmvbg kuaglkbgakguvarot
wvaa,glkzgqrbmksbgbmugakouflgiklasobvbrklgkpgbmugabvza:

ggggggggggggggg“Bkbgirzivgslsfgivwsbgbsfsobsvlbuag ula,”

ggggggggggggggg[“Voogbmugxk agbkgvxrbvbrklgv.ksbgklugfvlj”
gggggggggggggggg--Auluiv,gAsvakz,grjg4j]

vl gakgfsimgbmugfkzugbmrlcgrbgvagqugfkzugnvosugkszauonuajgg“Qmvb,gamvoo
akgfsimgclkqou xug.ugokab,gqrbmgakgfsimg vfvxugbkgbmugqkzo ,gqrbmksbgv
wvzbrisovzgikliuzlgkpgbmug uabrlrua?gg kuagakgzvzugvl guhufwovztgvgakso
ikabglkgfkzugbmugcroorlxgbmvlgklugbmvbgragikffklgvl gkpglkgsaugbkgbmu
ws.ori?ggBmragorpu,gbmvbgwzkbuibagakgfvltgkbmuza,gswklgqmrimgakgfvlt
kbmuzgornuag uwul ,gbmvbgufwoktagakgnvabgvglsf.uzgkpgfulgrlgmragauznriu,
bmvbgprooagakgfvltgwoviua,gamvoogrbg zkwgkppgorcugklugbmvbgmvlxag.sbg.t
rbagkqlgarfwougbmzuv ?gggLklugkpgsagovtagrbgulksxmgbkgmuvzbgbmvbgmugra
.sbgklu:gbmuliugwzkiuu u gbmkaugqkz agkpgIvuavzgbkgmragwrokb,gfkzugbsfr 
bmvlgbmugauvgbmvbgbmzuvbulu gmrf:

gggggggggggggg“Rbvorvfgargikuokgvsibkzugzuisava,
gggggggggggggggFugwubu:gakovgbr.rgivsavguabgmvuigysabvgbrfkzra,
gggggggggggggggNuibkzufglklglkaiugbssf;gwuzzsfwugwzkiuoova,
gggggggggggggggBsbuovgauiszugfuvj”

ggggg[“Rpgtksg uiorlugbkgavrogbkgRbvotgsl uzgbmugXk ’agwzkbuibrkl,gbzsab
gggggbkgfrlu;gbmugklotgysabgivsaugtksgmvnugbkgpuvzgra,gbmvbgtksg kglkb
gggggclkqgtkszgwvaaulxuz;gavrogkl,gauiszugrlgftgxsvz rvlamrwj”
gggggg--Osivl,gNjg579j]

Vl gbmuau:

gggggggggggggg“Izu rbgyvfg rxlvgwuzrisovgIvuavz
gggggggggggggggPvbraguaaugasra;gbvlbsalugunuzbuzu,g rhrb,
gggggggggggggggFugaswuzragov.kzguab,gwvznvgesuzlgwswwugau ulbuf,
gggggggggggggggBvfgfvxlkgwubruzugfvzr;”

ggggg[“Ivuavzglkqg uufu gbmuaug vlxuzagqkzbmtgkpgmrag uabrlt:g‘Qmvb!’
gggggavr gmu,g‘ragrbgpkzgbmugxk agakgxzuvbgvgbvacgbkgknuzbmzkqgfu,gbmvb
gggggbmutgfsabg.ugpvrlgbkgvaavrogfugqrbmgxzuvbgauvagrlgvgwkkzgorbbou
ggggg.vzcj’”--Osivl,gnjg653j]

vl gbmvbgr ougpvlitgkpgbmugws.ori,gbmvbgbmugaslg.kzugklgmragpviugfkszlrlx
pkzgmrag uvbmgvgqmkougtuvz:

gggggggggggggg“RoougubrvfguhbrlibkgfrauzvbsagIvuavzugZkfvf,
gggggggggggggggIsfgivwsbgk.aiszvglrbr sfgpuzzsxrlugbuhrb:”

ggggg[“Ivuavzg.urlxg uv ,gbmugaslgrlgfkszlrlxgioks a,gwrbtrlxgZkfu,
gggggiokbmu gmrfauopj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjg466j]

vl gvgbmksavl gkpgbmugorcu,gqmuzuqrbmgbmugqkzo gasppuzagrbauopgbkg.ugak
uvarotgrfwkau gswkl,g.uorunrlxgbmvbgkszgrlbuzuabagvppuibgbmugmuvnula,gvl 
bmvbgbmurzgrlprlrbtgragikliuzlu gvbgkszgkz rlvztgvibrkla:

gggggggggg“Lklgbvlbvgivuokgakirubvaglk.raisfguab,gsbglkabzk
ggggggggggpvbkgfkzbvoragarbgroougeskesugar uzsfgpsoxkzj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugraglkgasimgvoorvliug.ubqrhbgsagvl gmuvnul,gbmvbgbmu
ggggg.zrxmbluaagkpgbmugabvzagamkso g.ugfv ugvoakgfkzbvog.tgkszg uvbmj”
gggggg--Worlt,gLvbjggMrabj,grrjg8j]

Lkq,gbkgys xugkpgiklabvlitgvl gzuakosbrklgrlgvgfvlgqmkg kuaglkbgtub
.uorunugmrfauopgbkg.ugiuzbvrlotgrlg vlxuz,gbmksxmgmugzuvootgra,graglkb
zuvakl;gvl g‘braglkbgulksxmgbmvbgmug rugrlgbmragwkabszu,gslouaagmu
wszwkauotgwsbgmrfauopgrlbkgrbgpkzgbmraguppuibjggRbgikffklotgpvooagksbgrl
fkabgfulgbmvbgbmutgaubgvgxkk gpviugswklgbmugfvbbuzgvl gawuvcgqrbmgxzuvb
rl rppuzuliu,gbkgviesrzugzuwsbvbrkl,gqmrimgbmutgmkwugvpbuzqvz a,gornrlx,
bkgulyktjggKpgvoogqmkfgRgmvnugauulg ru,gpkzbslugmvag rawkau gbmurz
ikslbulvliuagvl glkg uarxlgkpgbmurza;gvl gunulgkpgbmkaugqmkgrlgvlirulb
brfuagmvnugfv ugvqvtgqrbmgbmufauonua,gbmuzugragfsimgbkg.ugiklar uzu 
qmubmuzgrbgquzugvgas  ulgkzgvgorlxuzrlxg uvbmjggBmvbgizsuogZkfvlgUfwuzkz
qkso gavtgkpgmragwzrakluza,gbmvbgmugqkso gfvcugbmufgpuuog uvbm,gvl grp
vltgklugcroou gmrfauopgrlgwzrakl,g“Bmvbgpuookqgmvagfv ugvlguaivwugpzkf
fu”;gmugqkso gwzkoklxg uvbmgvl gfvcugrbgpuobg.tgbkzfulba:

gggggggggggggg“Nr rfsagubgbkbkgesvfnragrlgikzwkzugivuak
gggggggggggggggLrogvlrfvgoubmvoug vbsf,gfkzufesuglupvl vu,
ggggggggggggggg szsfgavunrbrh,gwuzuslbragwvziuzugfkzbrj”

ggggg[“Qugmvnugauulgrlgbkzbszu g.k rua,gvfklxabgbmugqksl a,glklugbmvb
gggggmvnug.uulgfkzbvo,grlmsfvlgfk ugkpg rzugizsuobt,gbmvbgfuvlagbkgcroo,
ggggg.sbgqrooglkbgoubgfulg ruj”--Osivl,grnjgrjg78j]

Rlgwovrlgbzsbm,grbgraglkgasimgxzuvbgfvbbuzgpkzgvgfvlgrlgmuvobmgvl grlgv
bufwuzvbugabvbugkpgfrl gbkgzuakonugbkgcroogmrfauop;grbgragnuztguvatgbk
wovtgbmugnroovrlg.upkzugklugikfuagbkgbmugwkrlb,grlakfsimgbmvb
Muorkxv.vosa,gbmugfkabguppufrlvbugfvlgrlgbmugqkzo ,gvfklxabgmragokquab
aulasvorbrua,gikso gpkzuivabgbkgfvcugmrfauopg rug uorivbuot,gqmulgmu
amkso g.ugpkziu gbmuzubk;gvl gbmvbgmrag uvbmgfrxmbglkbgxrnugbmugorugbk
bmugzuabgkpgmragorpu,gmv gwszwkauotg.srobgvgasfwbsksagbkquz,gbmugpzklb
vl g.vaugkpgqmrimgquzugiknuzu gqrbmgwovlcagulzrimu gqrbmgxko gvl 
wzuirksagabklua,gbmuliugbkgwzuirwrbvbugmrfauop;gvl gvoakgivsau gikz a
bqrabu gqrbmgxko gvl gizrfaklgarocgbkg.ugfv u,gqmuzuqrbmgbkgabzvlxou
mrfauop;gvl gvgaqkz gqrbmgbmug.ov ugkpgxko gbkg.ugmvffuzu gksbgbkgpvoo
swkl;gvl gcuwbgwkraklgrlgnuaauoagkpgufuzvo gvl gbkwvdgqmuzuqrbmgbkgwkrakl
mrfauopgviikz rlxgvagmugamkso gorcugbkgimkkaugklugkpgbmuaugqvtagkpg trlx:

gggggggggg“Rfwrxuzjgjgjgv goubsfgubgpkzbragnrzbsbugikvibvj”

ggggg[“Zuakosbugvl g.zvnugrlgbmugpviugkpg uvbmg.tgvgpkziu gikszvxuj
ggggg--“Osivl,grnjg798j]

Tubgrlgzuawuibgkpgbmragwuzakl,gbmuguppufrlvitgkpgmragwzuwvzvbrklagfvcua
rbgfkzugorcuotgbmvbgmugqkso gmvnugbmksxmbg.ubbuzgkl’b,gmv gmug.uulgwsbgbk
bmugbuabjgg.sbgrlgbmkaugqmkgqrbmgxzuvbuzgzuakosbrklgmvnug ubuzfrlu gbk
 uawvbimgbmufauonua,gqugfsabguhvfrlugqmubmuzgrbgquzugqrbmgklug.okqgqmrim
bkkcgvqvtgbmugouraszugkpgpuuorlxgbmuguppuibgpkzgrbgragbkg.ugesuabrklu 
qmubmuz,gwuziurnrlxgorpu,g.tgorbbougvl gorbbou,gbkgabuvogvqvtgbmu
aulbrfulbgkpgbmug.k tgfrhrlxgrbauopgqrbmgbmvbgkpgbmugakso,gvl gbmugfuvla
kpgzuwulbrlxg.urlxgkppuzu ,gqmubmuz,gRgavt,giklabvlitgvl gk.abrlvitgrlgak
 vlxuzksagvlgrlbulbrklgqkso gmvnug.uulgpksl j

RlgbmugirnrogqvzagkpgIvuavz,gOsirsag kfrbrsa,g.urlxgbvculgrlgbmugV.zsddr,
vl gbmuzuswklgwkraklrlxgmrfauop,gvpbuzqvz agzuwulbu jggRbgmvagmvwwulu grl
kszgbrfugbmvbgvgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,g.urlxgzuakonu gbkg rugvl glkbgmvnrlxgxklu
 uuwgulksxmgvbgbmugprzabgbmzsab,gbmugaular.rorbtgkpgbmugpouamgkwwkarlx
mragvzf,gxvnugmrfauopgbqkgkzgbmzuugqksl agfkzu,g.sbgikso glunuzgwzunvro
swklgmrfauopgbkgbmzsabgmkfujggQmroabgWovsbrsagAronvlsagqvagswklgmra
bzrvo,gSzxsovlrv,gmragxzvl fkbmuz,gaulbgmrfgvgwklrvz gqrbmgqmrim,glkb
.urlxgv.ougbkgcroogmrfauop,gmugfv ugmragauznvlbagisbgmragnurlajgVo.siroov
rlgBr.uzrsagbrfugmvnrlx,gbkgcroogmrfauop,gabzsicgqrbmgbkkgfsim
bul uzluaa,gxvnugmragv nuzavzruagkwwkzbslrbtgbkgrfwzraklgvl gwsbgmrfgbk
 uvbmgbmurzgkqlgqvtj’gVl gbmvbgxzuvbgouv uz,g ufkabmulua,gvpbuzgmragzksb
rlgArirot,g r gbmugavfu;gvl gIjgPrf.zrv,gmvnrlxgabzsicgmrfauopgbkk
quvcot,gulbzuvbu gmragauznvlbgbkg uawvbimgmrfjggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,
Kabkzrsa,gqmkgikso glkbgfvcugsaugkpgmragkqlgvzf,g ra vrlu gbkgufwoktgbmvb
kpgmragauznvlbgbkgvltgkbmuzgsaug.sbgklotgbkgmko gbmugwklrvz gabzvrxmbgvl 
przf;gvl g.zrlxrlxgmragbmzkvbgbkgrb,gbmzsabgmrfauopgbmzksxmjgg‘Bra,grl
bzsbm,gvgfkzauogbmvbgragbkg.ugaqvookqu gqrbmksbgimuqrlx,gslouaagvgfvlg.u
bmkzksxmotgzuakonu ;gvl gtubgV zrvlgbmugufwuzkzgfv ugmragwmtarirvlgfvzc
vl gulirziougklgmragwvwgbmugfkzbvogwoviugqmuzurlgmugqvagbkgabv.gbkgqmkf
mugmv gxrnulgkz uzagbkgcroogmrfjggPkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgqvagbmvbgIvuavz,
.urlxgvacu gqmvbg uvbmgmugbmksxmbgbkg.ugbmugfkabg uarzu ,gfv ugvlaquz,
“Bmugouvabgwzufu rbvbu gvl gbmugamkzbuabj”--[Bvirbsa,gVllvoa,ghnrjg15]--
RpgIvuavzg vzu gbkgavtgrb,grbgraglkgikqvz riugrlgfugbkg.uorunugrbj”
gVgamkzbg uvbm,”gavtagWorlt,g“ragbmugaknuzurxlgxkk gmvwgkpgmsfvlgorpuj
“Wukwoug kglkbgfsimgivzugbkgzuikxlraugrbjggLkgklugivlgavtgbmvbgmugra
zuakosbugpkzg uvbmgqmkgpuvzagbkg uvogqrbmgrbgvl givllkbgsl uzxkgrbgqrbm
mragutuagkwul:gbmutgqmkfgqugauugrlgizrfrlvogwslramfulbagzslgbkgbmurz
 uvbmgvl gmvabulgvl gwzuaagbmurzguhuisbrkl,g kgrbglkbgksbgkpgzuakosbrkl,
.sbg.uivsaugbmutgqrooglkbgxrnugbmufgauonuagouraszugbkgiklar uzgrb;grb
 kuaglkbgbzks.ougbmufgbkg.ug uv ,g.sbgbkg ru:

gggggggggg“Ufk rglkok,gau gfuguaaugfkzbufglrmrogvabrxfrv:”

ggggg[“Rgmvnuglkgfrl gbkg ru,g.sbgRgmvnuglkgk.yuibrklgbkg.ug uv j”
gggggg--Uwrimvzfsa,gvws gIriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grjg8j]

‘bragvg uxzuugkpgiklabvlitgbkgqmrimgRgmvnuguhwuzrfulbu ,gbmvbgRgivl
vzzrnu,gorcugbmkaugqmkgwoslxugrlbkg vlxuza,gvagrlbkgbmugauv,gqrbmgbmurz
utuagamsbj

Bmuzugraglkbmrlx,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gfkzugroosabzrksagrlgbmugorpugkp
Akizvbua,gbmvlgbmvbgmugmv gbmrzbtgqmkoug vtagqmuzurlgbkgzsfrlvbugswklgbmu
aulbuliugkpgmrag uvbm,gbkgmvnug rxuabu grbgvoogbmvbgbrfugqrbmgvgfkab
vaaszu gmkwu,gqrbmksbgivzu,gvl gqrbmksbgvobuzvbrkl,gvl gqrbmgvgauzruagkp
qkz agvl gvibrklagzvbmuzgivzuouaagvl grl rppuzulbgbmvlgvltgqvtgabrzzu gkz
 raikfwkau g.tgbmugqurxmbgkpgasimgvgbmksxmbj

BmvbgWkfwklrsagVbbrisa,gbkgqmkfgIriuzkgqzrbuagakgkpbul,g.urlxgaric,
ivsau gVxzrwwv,gmragakl-rl-ovq,gvl gbqkgkzgbmzuugfkzugkpgmragpzrul a,gbk
.ugivoou gbkgmrf,gvl gbko gbmuf,gbmvbgmvnrlxgpksl gvoogfuvlagwzvibrau 
swklgmrfgpkzgmragzuiknuztgbkg.ugrlgnvrl,gvl gbmvbgvoogmug r gbkgwzkoklx
mragorpugvoakgwzkoklxu gvl gvsxfulbu gmragwvrl,gmugqvagzuakonu gbkgwsbgvl
ul g.kbmgbkgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,g uarzrlxgbmufgbkgvwwzknugkpgmra
 ubuzfrlvbrkl,gkzgvbgouvabglkbgbkgokaugbmurzgov.kszgrlgul uvnkszrlxgbk
 raasv ugmrfjggLkq,gmvnrlxgimkaulgbkg uabzktgmrfauopg.tgv.abrluliu,gmra
 rauvaugqvagbmuzu.tgiszu :gbmugzufu tgbmvbgmugmv gfv ugsaugkpgbkgcroo
mrfauopgzuabkzu gmrfgbkgmuvobmjggMragwmtarirvlagvl gpzrul a,gzuykrirlxgvb
akgmvwwtgvlgunulb,gvl gikfrlxgbkgiklxzvbsovbugmrf,gpksl gbmufauonuagnuzt
fsimg uiurnu ,grbg.urlxgrfwkaar.ougpkzgbmufgbkgfvcugmrfgvobuzgmra
wszwkau,gmugbuoorlxgbmuf,gbmvbgvagmugfsabgklug vtg ru,gvl gqvaglkqgakgpvz
klgmragqvt,gmugqkso gavnugmrfauopgbmugov.kszgkpg.uxrllrlxgvlkbmuzgbrfuj
Bmragfvl,gmvnrlxgasznutu g uvbmgvbgouraszu,gqvaglkbgklotglkbg raikszvxu 
vbgrbagvwwzkvim,g.sbguvxuzotgaksxmbgrb;gpkzg.urlxgiklbulbgbmvbgmugmv 
ulxvxu grlgbmugikf.vb,gmugfv ugrbgvgwkrlbgkpg.zvnuztgbkgauugbmugul ;g‘bra
pvzg.utkl glkbgpuvzrlxg uvbmgbkgbvabugvl gzuoramgrbj

BmugabkztgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuzgIouvlbmuagragnuztgorcugbmra:gmugmv gmragxsfa
aqkooulgvl gzkbbul;gmragwmtarirvlagv nrau gmrfgbkgxzuvbgv.abrluliu:
mvnrlxgpvabu gbqkg vta,gmugqvagakgfsimg.ubbuzgbmvbgbmutgwzklksliu gmrf
iszu ,gvl gwuzfrbbu gmrfgbkgzubszlgbkgmragkz rlvztgikszaugkpg rub;gmu,gkl
bmugiklbzvzt,gvozuv tgbvabrlxgakfugaquubluaagrlgbmragpvrlbluaagkpgmra,
qkso glkbg.ugwuzasv u gbkgxkg.vic,g.sbgzuakonu gbkgwzkiuu ,gvl gbkgprlram
qmvbgmugmv gakgpvzgv nvliu j

BsoorsagFvziuoorlsa,gvgtkslxgfvlgkpgZkfu,gmvnrlxgvgfrl gbkgvlbrirwvbugbmu
mkszgkpgmrag uabrlt,gbkg.ugzr gkpgvg rauvaugbmvbgqvagfkzugbzks.ougbkgmrf
bmvlgmugqvagqroorlxgbkgul szu,gbmksxmgmragwmtarirvlagvaaszu gmrfgkpgv
iuzbvrl,gbmksxmglkbgas  ul,giszu,givoou gvgikslirogkpgmragpzrul agbk
 uor.uzvbugv.ksbgrb;gkpgqmkfgakfu,gavtagAuluiv,gxvnugmrfgbmugikslauogbmvb
ksbgkpgslfvlorluaagbmutgqkso gmvnugbvculgbmufauonua;gkbmuza,gksbgkp
povbbuzt,gasimgvagbmutgbmksxmbgmugqkso g.uabgorcu;g.sbgvgAbkrigavr gbmra
bkgmrf:g“ kglkbgikliuzlgbmtauop,gFvziuoorlsa,gvagrpgbmksg r abg uor.uzvbu
kpgvgbmrlxgkpgrfwkzbvliu;g‘braglkgxzuvbgfvbbuzgbkgornu;gbmtgauznvlbagvl 
.uvabagornu;g.sbgrbgragvgxzuvbgbmrlxgbkg rugmvl akfuot,gqrauot,gvl 
przfotjgg kg.sbgbmrlcgmkqgoklxgbmksgmvabg klugbmugavfugbmrlxa,guvb,
 zrlc,gvl gaouuw,g zrlc,gaouuw,gvl guvb:gqugrliuaavlbotgqmuuogrlgbmugavfu
irzioujggLkbgklotgroogvl grlaswwkzbv.ougviir ulba,g.sbgunulgbmugavbrubt
kpgornrlx,grliorluagvgfvlgbkg uarzugbkg ruj”ggFvziuoorlsag r glkbgabvl 
rlgluu gkpgvgfvlgbkgv nrau,g.sbgkpgvgfvlgbkgvaarabgmrf;gmragauznvlbagquzu
vpzvr gbkgfu  ougrlgbmug.sarluaa,g.sbgbmragwmrokakwmuzgxvnugbmufgbkgsl uz
abvl gbmvbg kfuabriagvzugasawuibu gunulgqmulgrbgragrlg ks.bgqmubmuzgbmu
 uvbmgkpgbmugfvabuzgquzugnkoslbvztgkzglk;gkbmuzqrau,gbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugkp
vagrooguhvfwougbkgmrl uzgmrfgvagbkgcroogmrf,gpkzvafsimgva:

ggggggggggggggg“Rlnrbsfgesrgauznvb,gr ufgpvirbgkiir ulbrj”

gggggggggg[“Mugqmkgfvcuagvgfvlgornugvxvrlabgmragqroo,g‘bragvagizsuo
ggggggggggvagbkgcroogmrfj”--Mkzvbj,g ugVzbugWkubj,g467]

Mugbmulgbko gFvziuoorlsagbmvbgrbgqkso glkbg.ugsl.uikfrlx,gvagqmvbgragoupb
klgbmugbv.ouagqmulgqugmvnuguvbulgragxrnulgbkgbmugvbbul vlba,gak,gorpu
.urlxgul u ,gbkg rabzr.sbugakfubmrlxgbkgbmkaugqmkgmvnug.uulgkszgauznvlbaj
LkqgFvziuoorlsagqvagkpgvgpzuugvl gor.uzvogawrzrb;gmu,gbmuzupkzu,g rnr u 
vgiuzbvrlgasfgkpgfklutgvfklxabgmragauznvlba,gvl giklakou gbmufjggVagbk
bmugzuab,gmugmv glkgluu gkpgabuuoglkzgkpg.okk :gmugzuakonu gbkgxkgksbgkp
bmragorpugvl glkbgbkgzslgksbgkpgrb;glkbgbkguaivwugpzkfg uvbm,g.sbgbk
uaavtgrbjggVl gbkgxrnugmrfauopgouraszugbkg uvogqrbmgrb,gmvnrlxgpkzavcul
voogfvlluzgkpglkszramfulb,gbmugbmrz g vtgpkookqrlx,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgivsau 
mrfauopgbkg.ugawzrlcou gqrbmgqvzfgqvbuz,gmugpvrlbu g.tg uxzuua,gvl glkb
qrbmksbgakfugcrl gkpgwouvaszu,gvagmugmrfauopg uiovzu j

Rlgpvib,gasimgvagmvnug.uulgviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmuaugpvrlbrlxa,gwzkiuu rlx
pzkfgquvcluaa,gavtgbmvbgbmutgvzugbmuzurlgaular.ougkpglkgfvlluzgkpgwvrl,
.sbgzvbmuzgpuuogvgcrl gkpg uorxmb,gvagrlgbmugwvaavxugbkgaouuwgvl g.uabj
Bmuaugvzugabs ru gvl g rxuabu g uvbmaj

.sbgbkgbmugul gbmvbgIvbkgklotgfvtgpszlramgksbgbmugqmkouguhvfwougkp
nrzbsu,grbgauufagvagrpgmragxkk gqrbmgqmrimgbmugouraszugbkgiklpzklbgvl 
abzsxxougqrbmg uvbm,gzurlpkzirlxgmrag uabrltgmv gwsbgmragroogklugrlbkgbmu
mvl gmugxvnugmrfauopgbmug.okq,gauurlxgmugmv gikszvxugrlgbmug vlxuz,
rlabuv gkpgoubbrlxgrbgxkgouaajggVl grpgRgmv gmv gbkgzuwzuaulbgmrfgrlgmra
aswzufugabvbrkl,gRgamkso gmvnug klugrbgrlgbmugwkabszugkpgbuvzrlxgksbgmra
.okk tg.kquoa,gzvbmuzgbmvlgqrbmgmragaqkz grlgmragmvl ,gvag r gbmu
abvbsvzruagkpgmragbrfu,gpkzgbmragauikl gfsz uzgqvagfsimgfkzugpszrksagbmvl
bmugprzabj




IMVWBUZgHRN

BMVBgKSZgFRL gMRL UZAgRBAUOP

‘Bragvgwouvavlbgrfvxrlvbrklgbkgpvlitgvgfrl guhvibotg.vovliu g.ubqrhbgbqk
uesvog uarzua:gpkz,g ks.bouaa,grbgivlglunuzgwrbimgswklgurbmuz,gpkzvafsim
vagbmugimkriugvl gvwworivbrklgqkso gfvlrpuabgvlgrluesvorbtgkpguabuuf;
vl gquzugqugaubg.ubqrhbgbmug.kbbougvl gbmugmvf,gqrbmgvlguesvogvwwubrbugbk
 zrlcgvl guvb,gbmuzugqkso g ks.bouaag.uglkgzufu t,g.sbgqugfsabg rugkp
bmrzabgvl gmslxuzjggBkgwzknr ugvxvrlabgbmragrliklnulruliu,gbmugAbkria,
qmulgbmutgvzugvacu gqmuliugbmuguouibrklgrlgbmugaksogkpgbqkgrl rppuzulb
bmrlxagwzkiuu a,gvl gbmvbgfvcuagsa,gksbgkpgvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgizkqla,
zvbmuzgbvcugklugbmvlgvlkbmuz,gbmutg.urlxgvoogvorcu,gvl gbmuzug.urlxglk
zuvaklgbkgrliorlugsagbkgasimgvgwzupuzuliu,gfvcugvlaquz,gbmvbgbmra
fknufulbgkpgbmugaksograguhbzvkz rlvztgvl grzzuxsovz,gulbuzrlxgrlbkgsa
.tgvgpkzurxl,gviir ulbvo,gvl gpkzbsrbksagrfwsoaujggRbgfrxmbgzvbmuz,
fubmrlca,gmugavr ,gbmvbglkbmrlxgwzuaulbagrbauopgbkgsagqmuzurlgbmuzugra
lkbgakfug rppuzuliu,gmkqgorbbougakunuz;gvl gbmvb,gurbmuzg.tgbmugarxmbgkz
bksim,gbmuzugragvoqvtagakfugimkriugbmvb,gbmksxmgrbg.ugrfwuziuwbr.ot,
bufwbagvl gvbbzvibagsa;gak,gqmkunuzgamvoogwzuaswwkaugvgwvicbmzuv guesvoot
abzklxgbmzksxmksb,grbgragsbbuzotgrfwkaar.ougrbgamkso g.zuvc;gpkz,gqmuzu
qroogtksgmvnugbmug.zuvcrlxgbkg.uxrl?gvl gbmvbgrbgamkso g.zuvcgvobkxubmuz
raglkbgrlglvbszujggQmkunuz,gvoak,gamkso gmuzuslbkgykrlgbmugxukfubzrivo
wzkwkarbrklagbmvb,g.tgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurzg ufklabzvbrkla,giklios ugbmu
iklbvrlu gbkg.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgbmugiklbvrlrlx,gbmugiulbzugbkg.ugvagxzuvbgva
rbagirzisfpuzuliu,gvl gbmvbgprl gksbgbqkgorluagrliuaavlbotgvwwzkvimrlx
uvimgkbmuz,gqmrimgtubgivlglunuzgfuub,gvl gbmugwmrokakwmuz’agabklu,gvl 
bmugesv zvbszugkpgbmugirziou,gqmuzugbmugzuvaklgvl gbmuguppuibgvzugak
kwwkarbu,gfrxmb,gwuzv nulbszu,gprl gakfugvzxsfulbgbkgauikl gbmrag.ko 
avtrlxgkpgWorlt:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Akosfgiuzbsfglrmroguaaugiuzbr,
gggggggggggggggubgmkfrluglrmrogfrauzrsagvlbgaswuz.rsaj”

ggggg[“Rbgragklotgiuzbvrlgbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgiuzbvrl,gvl gbmvbglkbmrlx
gggggragfkzugfrauzv.ougkzgfkzugwzks gbmvlgfvlj”--LvbjgMrabj,grrjg7j]




IMVWBUZgHN

BMVBgKSZg UARZUAgVZUgVSXFULBU g.Tg RPPRISOBT

Bmuzugraglkgzuvaklgbmvbgmvaglkbgrbagiklbzvzt,gavtgbmugqrauabgkpgbmu
wmrokakwmuzajggRgqvagysabglkqgzsfrlvbrlxgklgbmuguhiuooulbgavtrlxgklugkp
bmugvlirulbagvoouxuagpkzgbmugiklbufwbgkpgorpu:g“Lkgxkk givlg.zrlx
wouvaszu,gslouaagrbg.ugbmvbgpkzgbmugokaagkpgqmrimgqugvzug.upkzumvl 
wzuwvzu j”

gggggggggg“Rlgvueskguabg kokzgvfraavugzur,gubgbrfkzgvfrbbul vu,”

gggggggggg[“Bmugxzrupgkpgokarlxgvgbmrlx,gvl gbmugpuvzgkpgokarlxgrb,
ggggggggggvzuguesvoj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g98j]

fuvlrlxg.tgbmragbmvbgbmugpzsrbrklgkpgorpugivllkbg.ugbzsotgwouvavlbgbkgsa
rpgqugvzugrlgpuvzgkpgokarlxgrbjggRbgfrxmb,gmkqunuz,g.ugavr ,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbmvbgqugmsxgvl guf.zviugbmragxkk gakgfsimgbmugfkzuguvzluabot,
vl gqrbmgakgfsimgxzuvbuzgvppuibrkl,g.tgmkqgfsimgqugauugrbgbmugouaa
vaaszu gvl gpuvzgbkgmvnugrbgbvculgpzkfgsa:gpkzgrbgragunr ulb,gvagprzu
.szlagqrbmgxzuvbuzgpsztgqmulgiko gikfuagbkgfrhgqrbmgrb,gbmvbgkszgqroogra
fkzugk.abrlvbug.tg.urlxgkwwkau :

ggggggggggggggg“Arglslesvfg vlvulgmv.sraaubgvmuluvgbszzra,
gggggggggggggggLklguaaua,g vlvu,g ugYknugpvibvgwvzula;”

ggggg[“Rpgvg.zvdulgbkquzgmv glkbgmuo g vlvu,gtksgqkso glkb,g vlvu,gmvnu
ggggg.uulgfv ugvgfkbmuzg.tgYknuj”--Knr ,gVfktj,grrjg19,g27j]

vl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxglvbszvootgakgiklbzvztgbkgkszgbvabugvagavbrubt
qmrimgwzkiuu agpzkfgpvirorbt;glkzgvltbmrlxgbmvbgakgfsimgqmubagrbgva
zvzrbtgvl g rpprisobt:

ggggg“Kflrsfgzuzsfgnkoswbvagrwak,geskg u.ubgpsxvzu,gwuzrisokgizuairbj”

ggggg[“Bmugwouvaszugkpgvoogbmrlxagrlizuvauag.tgbmugavfug vlxuzgbmvb
gggggamkso g ubuzgrbj”--Auluiv,g ug.ulupj,gnrrjg9j]

gggggggggg“Xvoov,gluxv;gavbrvbszgvfkz,glrargxvs rvgbkzesulbj”

ggggg[“Xvoov,gzupsaugfu;goknugragxosbbu gqrbmgyktagbmvbgvzuglkbgvbbul u 
gggggqrbmgbzks.ouj”--Fvzbrvo,grnjg37j]

Bkgcuuwgoknugrlg.zuvbm,gOtiszxsagfv ugvg uizuugbmvbgbmugfvzzru gwukwougkp
Oviu vufklgamkso glunuzgulyktgklugvlkbmuzg.sbg.tgabuvobm;gvl gbmvbgrb
amkso g.ugvagxzuvbgvgamvfugbkgbvcugbmufgrlg.u gbkxubmuzgvagikffrbbrlx
qrbmgkbmuzajggBmug rpprisobtgkpgvaarxlvbrkla,gbmug vlxuzgkpgaszwzrau,gbmu
amvfugkpgbmugfkzlrlx,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Ubgovlxskz,gubgaroulbrsf,
ggggggggggggggggggggUbgovbuzugwubrbsagrfkgAwrzrbsa:”

ggggg[“Vl govlxskz,gvl garouliu,gvl garxma,gikfrlxgpzkfgbmugrlluzfkab
gggggmuvzbj”--Mkzj,gUwk j,ghrjg9j]

bmuaugvzugqmvbgxrnugbmugwresvlitgbkgbmugavsiujggMkqgfvltgnuztgqvlbklot
wouvavlbgawkzbagawzrlxgpzkfgbmugfkabg uiulbgvl gfk uabgovlxsvxugkpgbmu
qkzcagklgoknu?ggWouvaszugrbauopgauucagbkg.ugmurxmbulu gqrbmgwvrl;grbgra
fsimgaquubuzgqmulgrbgafvzbagvl gmvagbmugacrlgzrwwou jggBmugikszbuavl
Pokzvgavr gamuglunuzgovtgqrbmgWkfwutg.sbgbmvbgamugfv ugmrfgquvzgbmu
wzrlbagkpgmuzgbuubmj--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgWkfwut,gijgrj]

gggggggggg“Esk gwubruzu,gwzufslbgvzibu,gpvirslbesug kokzuf
ggggggggggIkzwkzra,gubg ulbuagrlor slbgavuwugov.uooragjggjggj
ggggggggggUbgabrfsorgas.aslb,gesrgrlabrxvlbgovu uzugv grwasf,
ggggggggggEsk islesuguab,gzv.ruagsl ugroovugxuzfrlvgaszxslbj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgbmutgmvnugaksxmbgbmutg zuaagiokauot,gvl givsaugwvrl;gklgbmu
gggggorwagprhgbmugbuubm,gvl gunuztgcraagrl ulba:gszxu g.tgovbulbgabrfsosa
gggggbmugwvzbgbkgqksl ”--Osizubrsa,grjg4j]

Vl gakgrbgragrlgunuztbmrlx:g rpprisobtgxrnuagvoogbmrlxagbmurzguabrfvbrkl;
bmugwukwougkpgbmugfvzimgkpgVliklvgfkzugzuv rotgfvcugbmurzgnkqagbkgAbj
Yvfua,gvl gbmkaugkpgXvorirvgbkgKszgOv tgkpgOkzubk;gbmutgfvcugqkl uzpso
bk- kgvbgOruxugv.ksbgbmug.vbmagkpgOsiiv,gvl grlgBsaivltgv.ksbgbmkaugkp
Vawv:gbmuzugvzugpuqgZkfvlagauulgrlgbmugpulirlxgaimkkogkpgZkfu,gqmrimgra
psoogkpgPzulimjggBmvbgxzuvbgIvbkgvoak,gvagfsimgvagsa,glvsauvbu gmragqrpu
qmroabgamugqvagmra,gvl goklxu gpkzgmuzgqmulgrlgbmugwkaauaarklgkpgvlkbmuzj
Rgqvagpvrlgbkgbszlgksbgrlbkgbmugwv  kicgvlgko gmkzau,gvagmugqvaglkbgbkg.u
xknuzlu gqmulgmugafuobgvgfvzu:gbmugpvirorbtgwzuaulbotgavbu gmrfgva
bkqvz agmragkql,g.sbgbkqvz agabzvlxugfvzua,gvl gbmugprzabgbmvbgwvaau g.t
bmugwvougkpgmragwvabszu,gmugqkso gvxvrlgpvoogbkgmragrfwkzbslvbuglurxmrlxa
vl gmragpszrksagmuvbagvag.upkzujggKszgvwwubrbugiklbuflagvl gwvaauag.t
qmvbgrbgmvagrlgwkaauaarkl,gbkgzslgvpbuzgbmvbgrbgmvaglkb:

gggggggggg“Bzvlankovbgrlgfu rkgwkarbv,gubgpsxrulbrvgivwbvbj”

ggggg[“Mugaorxmbagmuzgqmkgragiokaugvbgmvl ,gvl gzslagvpbuzgmuz
gggggqmkgpouuagpzkfgmrfj”--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg2,g108j]

Bkgpkz.r gsagvltbmrlxgragbkgfvcugsagmvnugvgfrl gbk’b:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lrargbkgauznvzugwsuoovf
gggggggggggggggRlirwra,grlirwrubg uarluzuguaaugfuv:”

ggggg[“Slouaagtksg.uxrlgbkgxsvz gtkszgfrabzuaa,gamugqroogakklg.uxrl
gggggbkg.uglkgoklxuzgfrluj”--Knr ,gVfktj,grrjg19,g47j]

bkgxrnugrbgqmkootgswgbkgsagragbkg.uxubgrlgsagiklbufwbjggQvlbgvl 
v.sl vliugpvoogrlbkgbmugavfugrliklnulruliu:

ggggggggggggggg“Br.rgesk gaswuzuab,gfrmrgesk g uarb,g koubj”

gggggggggg[“Tkszgaswuzposrbruagbzks.ougtks,gvl gqmvbgRgqvlb
ggggggggggbzks.ouagfuj--“Buzuliu,gWmktfj,grjg3,g9j]

 uarzugvl gpzsrbrklguesvootgvpporibgsajggBmugzrxkzagkpgfrabzuaauagvzu
bzks.ouakfu,g.sbgpvirorbt,gbkgavtgbzsbm,gabroogfkzugak;gpkzvafsimgva
 raiklbulbgvl gvlxuzgawzrlxgpzkfgbmuguabuufgqugmvnugkpgbmugbmrlxg uarzu ,
muvbgvl gvibsvbugoknu,g.sbgavbrubtg.uxubag raxsab;g‘bragvg.oslb,g soo,
abswr ,gbrzu ,gvl gaokbmpsogwvaarkl:

gggggggggg“Argesvgnkoubgzuxlvzug rs,giklbuflvbgvfvlbufj”

ggggg[“Amugqmkgqkso goklxgzubvrlgmuzgwkquzgfsabgsaugmuzgoknuzgrooj”
gggggg--Knr ,gVfkzj,grrjg19,g33]

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Iklbuflrbu,gvfvlbua:
gggggggggggggggArigmk rugnulrub,gargesvgluxvnrbgmuzrj”

ggggg[“Aorxmbgtkszgfrabzuaa;gamugqroogbk- vtgikfugqmkg ulru gtks
gggggtuabuz vtj--“Wzkwuzbrsa,grrjg14,g19j]

Qmtg r gWkwwuvgrlnulbgbmugsaugkpgvgfvacgbkgmr ugbmug.uvsbruagkpgmuzgpviu,
.sbgbkgulmvliugrbgbkgmuzgoknuza?ggQmtgmvnugbmutgnurou ,gunulg.uokqgbmu
muuoa,gbmkaug.uvsbruagbmvbgunuztgklug uarzuagbkgamkq,gvl gbmvbgunuztgklu
 uarzuagbkgauu?ggQmtg kgbmutgiknuzgqrbmgakgfvltgmrl zvliua,gklugknuz
vlkbmuz,gbmugwvzbagqmuzugkszg uarzuagvl gbmurzgkqlgmvnugbmurzgwzrlirwvo
auvb?ggVl gbkgqmvbgauznugbmkaugxzuvbg.vabrklgpvzbmrlxvoua,gqrbmgqmrimgksz
ov ruagpkzbrptgbmurzgmvslimua,g.sbgbkgvooszugkszgvwwubrbugvl gbkg zvqgsa
klg.tgzufknrlxgbmufgpvzbmuzgpzkfgsa?

gggggggggg“Ubgpsxrbgv gavoriua,gubgaugiswrbgvlbugnr uzrj”

ggggg[“Amugporuagbkgbmugkaruza,gvl g uarzuag.upkzumvl gbkg.ugauulgxkrlxj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gUiokxj,grrrjg65j]

ggggggggggggggg“Rlbuz sfgbslrivg shrbgkwuzbvgfkzvfj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bmugmr  ulgzk.ugmvagakfubrfuagimuicu goknuj”
gggggggggggggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrjg15,g6j]

Bkgqmvbgsaugauznuagbmugvzbrpriugkpgbmragnrzxrlgfk uabt,gbmragxzvnu
iko luaa,gbmragaunuzugikslbulvliu,gbmragwzkpuaarlxgbkg.ugrxlkzvlbgkp
bmrlxagbmvbgbmutgclkqg.ubbuzgbmvlgqugqmkgrlabzsibgbmufgrlgbmuf,g.sbgbk
rlizuvaugrlgsagbmug uarzugbkgknuzikfu,giklbzko,gvl gbzvfwougsl uzpkkbgvb
wouvaszugvoogbmragiuzufkltgvl gvoogbmuaugk.abvioua?ggPkzgbmuzugraglkb
klotgwouvaszu,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gxokzt,grlgiklesuzrlxgvl g u.vsimrlxgbmvb
akpbgaquubluaagvl gbmvbgimro ramgfk uabt,gvl gbkgzu siugvgiko gvl 
fvbzklorcugxzvnrbtgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgkszgvz ulbg uarzua:g‘bragvgxokzt,
avtgbmut,gbkgbzrsfwmgknuzgfk uabt,gimvabrbt,gvl gbufwuzvliu;gvl gqmkunuz
 raasv uagov ruagpzkfgbmkaugesvorbrua,g.ubzvtag.kbmgbmufgvl gmrfauopj
Qugvzugbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmurzgmuvzbagbzuf.ougqrbmgvppzrxmb,gbmvbgbmugnuzt
aksl gkpgkszgqkz agkppul agbmugwszrbtgkpgbmurzguvza,gbmvbgbmutgmvbugsa
pkzgbvocrlxgak,gvl gklotgtruo gbkgkszgrfwkzbslrbtg.tgvgikfwsoarnugpkziuj
.uvsbt,gvoogwkquzpsogvagrbgra,gmvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgfvcugrbauop
zuoramu gqrbmksbgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgbmuaugorbbougvzbajggOkkcgrlbkgRbvot,
qmuzugbmuzugragbmugfkabgvl gbmugprluabg.uvsbtgbkg.ugako ,gmkqgrbgra
luiuaarbvbu gbkgmvnugzuikszaugbkguhbzrlarigfuvlagvl gkbmuzgvzbrpriuagbk
zul uzgrbauopgimvzfrlx,gvl gtub,grlgbzsbm,gqmvbunuzgrbgfvtg k,g.urlx
nulvogvl gws.ori,grbgzufvrlagpuu.ougvl govlxsramrlxjggUnulgakgrlgnrzbsu
rbauop,gkpgbqkgorcuguppuiba,gquglkbqrbmabvl rlxgokkcgswklgbmvbgvagbmu
pvrzuabgvl gfkabgqkzbmt,gqmuzurlgbmugfkabgbzks.ougvl gmvdvz gvzugaub
.upkzugsaj

‘Bragvlguppuibgkpgbmug rnrlugWzknr uliugbkgasppuzgbmugmkotgImszimgbkg.u
vpporibu ,gvagqugauugrb,gqrbmgakgfvltgabkzfagvl gbzks.oua,g.tgbmra
kwwkarbrklgbkgzksaugwrksagaksoa,gvl gbkgvqvculgbmufgpzkfgbmvbg zkqat
oubmvzxtgqmuzurl,g.tgakgoklxgbzvlesroorbt,gbmutgmv g.uulgrffuzxu j
Rpgqugamkso govtgbmugokaagqugmvnugasabvrlu grlgbmuglsf.uzgkpgbmkaugqmk
mvnugxklugvabzvt,grlgbmug.vovliugvxvrlabgbmug.uluprbgqugmvnugmv g.tg.urlx
vxvrlgwsbgrlg.zuvbm,gvl g.tgmvnrlxgkszgduvogvl gabzulxbmgzunrnu g.t
zuvaklgkpgbmragkwwkarbrkl,gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgbmugsbrorbtgqkso glkb
aszfkslbgbmug vfvxuj

Qugmvnugbmksxmbgbkgbrugbmuglswbrvogclkbgkpgkszgfvzzrvxuagfkzugpvabgvl 
przfg.tgmvnrlxgbvculgvqvtgvoogfuvlagkpg raakonrlxgrb,g.sbgbmugclkbgkpgbmu
qroogvl gvppuibrklgragakgfsimgbmugfkzugaoviculu gvl gfv ugokkau,g.tgmkq
fsimgbmvbgkpgiklabzvrlbgrag zvqlgiokauz;gvl ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgqmrim
cuwbgbmugfvzzrvxuagvbgZkfugakgoklxgrlgmklkszgvl grlnrkovbu,gqvagbmu
or.uzbtgunuztgklugqmkgakg uarzu gmv gbkg.zuvcgbmuf;gbmutgcuwbgbmurzgqrnua
bmug.ubbuz,g.uivsaugbmutgfrxmbgwvzbgqrbmgbmuf,grpgbmutgqkso ;gvl ,grlgbmu
psoogor.uzbtgkpg rnkziu,gprnugmsl zu gtuvzagvl gfkzugwvaau gvqvtg.upkzu
vltgklugfv ugsaugkl’bj

ggggg“Esk goriub,grlxzvbsfguab;gesk glklgoriub,gvizrsagszrbj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgtksgfvt,grag rawouvarlx;gqmvbgragpkz.r  ul,gqmubagbmu
gggggvwwubrbuj--“Knr ,gVfkzj,grrjg19j]

Qugfrxmbgmuzugrlbzk siugbmugkwrlrklgkpgvlgvlirulbgswklgbmragkiivarkl,
“bmvbguhuisbrklagzvbmuzgqmubgbmvlg soogbmugu xugkpgnriua:gbmvbgbmutg k
lkbg.uxubgbmugivzugkpg krlxgquoo,gbmvbg.urlxgbmugqkzcgkpgzuvaklgvl 
 rairworlu,g.sbgklotgvgivzuglkbgbkg.ugbvculgrlg krlxgroo:”

ggggggggggggggg“Ovbrsaguhiravugwuabragiklbvxrvgauzwslbj”

ggggg[“Bmugwovxsu-akzug.urlxgovliu ,gbmugrlpuibrklgawzuv agvoogbmugfkzuj”
gggggg--Zsbrorsa,gRbrluzvzjg1,g397j]

Rg kglkbgclkqgbmvbgbmragragbzsu;g.sbgRguhwuzrfulbvootgclkq,gbmvbglunuz
irnrogxknuzlfulbgqvag.tgbmvbgfuvlagzupkzfu ;gbmugkz uzgvl gzuxrfulgkp
fvlluzag uwul gswklgakfugkbmuzguhwu rulbj

BmugXzuucgmrabkzruagfvcugfulbrklgkpgbmugVzxrwwrvla,glurxm.kszagbk
Aitbmrv,gqmkgornugqrbmksbgurbmuzgzk gkzgabricgpkzgkppuliu;gqmuzuglkbgklot
lkgklugvbbufwbagbkgvbbvicgbmuf,g.sbgqmkunuzgivlgpotgbmrbmuzgragavpu,g.t
zuvaklgkpgbmurzgnrzbsugvl gavlibrbtgkpgorpu,gvl glkgklugragakg.ko gvagbk
ovtgmvl agswklgbmuf;gvl gbmutgmvnugvwworivbrklagfv ugbkgbmufgbkg ubuzfrlu
bmugiklbzknuzaruagbmvbgvzraug.ubqrhbgfulgkpgkbmuzgikslbzruajggBmuzugragv
iuzbvrlglvbrkl,gqmuzugbmuguliokaszuagkpgxvz ulagvl gpruo agbmutgqkso 
wzuauznu,gvzugfv ugklotgkpgvgabzrlxgkpgikbbkl;gvl ,gakgpuliu ,gragfkzu
przfgvl gauiszugbmvlg.tgkszgmu xuagvl g rbimuaj

gggggggggggggggggggg“Pszufgarxlvbvgakoorirbvlbgjggjggj
ggggggggggggggggggggvwuzbvguppzvibvzrsagwzvubuzrbj”

gggggggggg[“Bmrlxagauvou ,gswgrlnrbugvgbmrup:gbmugmksau.zuvcuz
ggggggggggwvaauag.tgkwulg kkzaj”--Auluiv,gUwrabj,g68j]

Wuzv nulbszu,gbmugpvirorbtgkpgulbuzrlxgftgmksau,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,
mvag.uulgvgfuvlagbkgwzuauznugrbgpzkfgbmugnrkouliugkpgkszgirnrogqvza:
 upuliugvooszuagvbbufwb,gvl g uprvliugwzknkcuagvlguluftjggRguluznvbu gbmu
ako ruza’g uarxlg.tg uwzrnrlxgbmuguhwokrbgkpg vlxuzgvl gvoogfvlluzgkp
frorbvztgxokzt,gqmrimgragqklbgbkgauznugbmufgpkzgwzubuliugvl guhisau:
qmvbunuzgrag.zvnuot,gragunuzgmklkszv.ot,g klu,gvbgvgbrfugqmulgysabriugra
 uv jggRgzul uzgbmufgbmugiklesuabgkpgftgmksaugikqvz otgvl g.vau;grbgra
lunuzgamsbgbkgvltgklugbmvbgclkica;gftgxvbugmvaglkgkbmuzgxsvz gbmvlgv
wkzbuz,gvl gmugkpgvlirulbgisabkfgvl giuzufklt;gqmkg kuaglkbgakgfsimgauznu
bkg upul grbgvagbkgkppuzgrbgqrbmgfkzug uikzsfgvl gxzviu;gRgmvnuglkgkbmuz
xsvz glkzgaulbrluogbmvlgbmugabvzajggVgxulboufvlgqkso gwovtgbmugpkkogbk
fvcugvgamkqgkpg upuliu,grpgmug.uglkbgzuvootgrlgvgikl rbrklgbkg upul 
mrfauopjggMugqmkgoruagkwulgklgklugar u,gragunuztqmuzugak;gkszgvliuabkza
 r glkbgbmrlcgkpg.sro rlxgpzklbruzgxvzzraklajggBmugfuvlagkpgvaavsobrlx,
Rgfuvlgqrbmksbg.vbbuztgkzgvzft,gvl gkpgaszwzrarlxgkszgmksaua,grlizuvaua
unuztg vtgfkzugvl gfkzug.utkl gbmugfuvlagbkgxsvz gbmuf;gful’agqrbagvzu
xuluzvootg.ulbgbmvbgqvt;grlgrlnvarklgunuztgklugragikliuzlu :glklug.sbgbmu
zrimgrlg upuliujgFrlugqvagabzklxgpkzgbmugbrfugqmulgrbgqvag.srob;gRgmvnu
v  u glkbmrlxgbkgrbgkpgbmvbgcrl ,gvl gamkso gpuvzgbmvbgrbagabzulxbmgfrxmb
bszlgvxvrlabgftauop;gbkgqmrimgqugvzugbkgiklar uzgbmvbgvgwuviuv.ougbrfu
qkso gzuesrzugrbgamkso g.ug rafvlbou jggBmuzugrag vlxuzglunuzgbkg.ugv.ou
bkgzuxvrlgrb,gvl grbgqkso g.ugnuztgmvz gbkgcuuw;gpkzgrlgrlbuabrlu
 raaularkla,gtkszgfvlgfvtg.ugkpgbmugwvzbtgtksgpuvz;gvl gqmuzugzuorxrklgra
bmugwzubuhb,gunulgvgfvl’agluvzuabgzuovbrklag.uikfugslzuorv.ou,gqrbmgakfu
ikokszgkpgysabriujgBmugws.origuhimuesuzgqrooglkbgfvrlbvrlgkszg kfuabri
xvzzrakla;gbmutgqkso guhmvsabgrb:gqugkszauonuagmvnuglkbgbmugfuvlagbkg k
rbgqrbmksbgzsrl,gkz,gqmrimgragfkzugrliklnulrulbgvl grlyszrksa,gqrbmksb
zsrlrlxgbmugwukwoujggBmugikl rbrklgkpgftgokaagqkso g.ugaivziuotgqkzauj
Vagbkgbmugzuab,gtksgbmuzugokaugvoo;gvl gunulgtkszgpzrul agqroog.ugfkzu
zuv tgbkgviisaugtkszgqvlbgkpgnrxrovliugvl gtkszgrfwzknr uliu,gvl gtksz
rxlkzvliugkpgvl grl rppuzuliugbkgtkszgkqlg.sarluaa,gbmvlgbkgwrbtgtksj
Bmvbgakgfvltgxvzzraklu gmksauagmvnug.uulgsl klugqmuzuvagbmragkpgfrlu
zufvrla,gfvcuagfugvwbgbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmutgquzugklotgokabg.tg.urlx
xsvz u ;gbmragxrnuagvlguluftg.kbmgvlgrlnrbvbrklgvl gikokszgkpgzuvakl;gvoo
 upuliugamkqagvgpviugkpgqvzjggOubgqmkgqroogikfugbkgfugrlgXk ’aglvfu;g.sb
Rgamvooglkbgrlnrbugbmuf;g‘bragbmugzubrzufulbgRgmvnugimkaulgpkzgftgzuwkau
pzkfgqvzjggRgul uvnkszgbkgqrbm zvqgbmragikzluzgpzkfgbmugws.origbufwuab,
vagRgvoakg kgvlkbmuzgikzluzgrlgftgaksojggKszgqvzgfvtgwsbgklgqmvbgpkzfagrb
qroo,gfsobrwotgvl g rnuzarptgrbauopgrlbkgluqgwvzbrua;gpkzgftgwvzb,gRgabrz
lkbjggVfklxabgakgfvltgxvzzraklu gmksaua,gftauopgvoklugvfklxabgbmkaugkpgft
zvlc,gakgpvzgvagRgclkq,grlgPzvliu,gmvnugbzsabu gwszuotgbkgMuvnulgpkzgbmu
wzkbuibrklgkpgfrlu,gvl gmvnuglunuzgzufknu gwovbu,g uu a,gkzgmvlxrlxaj
Rgqrooglurbmuzgpuvzglkzgavnugftauopg.tgmvonuajggRpgvgpsoogviclkqou xfulb
viesrzuagbmug rnrlugpvnksz,grbgqroogabvtgqrbmgfugbkgbmugul :grpglkb,gR
mvnugabroogiklbrlsu goklxgulksxmgbkgzul uzgftgiklbrlsvliugzufvzcv.ougvl 
prbgbkg.ugzuikz u jggMkq?ggQmt,gbmuzugvzugbmrzbtgtuvzagbmvbgRgmvnugbmsa
ornu j




IMVWBUZgHNR

KPgXOKZT

Bmuzugragbmuglvfugvl gbmugbmrlx:gbmuglvfugragvgnkriugqmrimg ulkbuagvl 
arxlrpruagbmugbmrlx;gbmuglvfugraglkgwvzbgkpgbmugbmrlx,glkzgkpgbmu
as.abvliu;g‘bragvgpkzurxlgwruiugykrlu gbkgbmugbmrlx,gvl gksbar ugrbj
Xk ,gqmkgragvoogpsoluaagrlgMrfauopgvl gbmugmurxmbgkpgvoogwuzpuibrkl,
ivllkbgvsxfulbgkzgv  gvltbmrlxgbkgMrfauopgqrbmrl;g.sbgMraglvfugfvtg.u
vsxfulbu gvl grlizuvau g.tgbmug.ouaarlxgvl gwzvraugqugvbbzr.sbugbkgMra
uhbuzrkzgqkzca:gqmrimgwzvrau,gauurlxgqugivllkbgrlikzwkzvbugrbgrlgMrf,
pkzvafsimgvagMugivlgmvnuglkgviiuaarklgkpgxkk ,gqugvbbzr.sbugbkgMraglvfu,
qmrimgragbmugwvzbgksbgkpgMrfgbmvbgragluvzuabgbkgsajggBmsagragrbgbmvbgbk
Xk gvoklugxokztgvl gmklkszgvwwuzbvrl;gvl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgzufkbugpzkf
zuvaklgvagbmvbgqugamkso gxkgrlgesuabgkpgrbgpkzgkszauonua;gpkz,g.urlx
rl rxulbgvl gluiuaarbksagqrbmrl,gkszguaauliug.urlxgrfwuzpuib,gvl gmvnrlx
iklbrlsvogluu gkpgvfuorkzvbrkl,g‘bragbkgbmvbgqugksxmbgbkgufwoktgvoogksz
ul uvnkszjggQugvzugvoogmkookqgvl gufwbt;g‘braglkbgqrbmgqrl gvl gnkriu
bmvbgqugvzugbkgproogkszauonua;gqugqvlbgvgfkzugakor gas.abvliugbkgzuwvrz
sa:gvgfvlgabvznrlxgqrbmgmslxuzgqkso g.ugnuztgarfwougbkgauucgzvbmuzgbk
wzknr ugmrfauopgqrbmgvgxvtgxvzfulbgbmvlgqrbmgvgxkk gfuvo:gqugvzugbkgokkc
vpbuzgbmvbgqmuzukpgqugmvnugfkabgluu jggVagqugmvnugrbgrlgkszgkz rlvzt
wzvtuza:

gggggggggg“Xokzrvgrlguhiuoarag uk,gubgrlgbuzzvgwvhgmkfrlr.saj”

Qugvzugrlgqvlbgkpg.uvsbt,gmuvobm,gqra kf,gnrzbsu,gvl gasimgorcuguaaulbrvo
esvorbrua:guhbuzrkzgkzlvfulbagamkso ,g.ugokkcu gvpbuzgqmulgqugmvnugfv u
wzknrarklgpkzgluiuaavztgbmrlxajgg rnrlrbtgbzuvbagvfwotgvl gfkzu
wuzbrlulbotgkpgbmragas.yuib,g.sbgRgvfglkbgfsimgnuzau grlgrbj

Imztarwwsagvl g rkxuluagquzugbmuguvzoruabgvl gprzfuabgv nkivbuagkpgbmu
iklbufwbgkpgxokzt;gvl gfvrlbvrlu gbmvb,gvfklxabgvoogwouvaszua,gbmuzugqva
lklugfkzug vlxuzksaglkzgfkzugbkg.ugvnkr u gbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgwzkiuu agpzkf
bmugvwwzk.vbrklgkpgkbmuzajgVl ,grlgbzsbm,guhwuzruliugfvcuagsagaular.ougkp
fvltgnuztgmszbpsogbzuvaklagrlgrbjggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgakgwkrakla
wzrliuagvagpovbbuzt,glkzgvltbmrlxgqmuzu.tgqricu gfulgfkzuguvarotgk.bvrl
izu rbgvl gpvnkszgqrbmgbmuf;glkzgwvl uzrafgakgvwbgvl gakgsasvootgfv ugsau
kpgbkgikzzswbgbmugimvabrbtgkpgqkfulgvagbkgqmuu ougvl gulbuzbvrlgbmufgqrbm
bmurzgkqlgwzvrauajggBmugprzabgimvzfgbmugAtzulagfv ugsaugkpgbkgvooszu
Sotaauagragkpgbmraglvbszu:

ggggggggg“ uivgnuzaglksa,g uiv,gkgbzua-oksv.ougSotaau,
ggggggggggUbgougwosagxzvl gmklluszg kl’bgovgXzuiugpouszraauj”

ggggg[“Ikfugmrbmuzgbkgsa,gKgv frzv.ougSotaaua,gikfugmrbmuz,gbmksgxzuvbuab
gggggkzlvfulbgvl gwzr ugkpgXzuuiuj”--Mkfuz,gK taausa,ghrrjg184j]

Bmuaugwmrokakwmuzagavr ,gbmvbgvoogbmugxokztgkpgbmugqkzo gqvaglkbgqkzbmgvl
sl uzabvl rlxgfvl’agmko rlxgksbgmragprlxuzgbkgk.bvrlgrb:

gggggggggg“Xokzrvgesvlbvor.ubgesr guzrb,gargxokzrvgbvlbsfguab?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgragxokzt,g.ugrbgvagxokzrksagvagrbgfvtg.u,grpgrbg.uglkgfkzu
gggggbmvlgxokzt?”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,gnrrjg81j]

Rgavtgpkzgrbgvoklu;gpkzgrbgkpbulg.zrlxagaunuzvogikffk rbruagvoklxgqrbm
rb,gpkzgqmrimgrbgfvtgysabotg.ug uarzu :grbgviesrzuagsagxkk -qroo,gvl 
zul uzagsagouaagas.yuibgvl guhwkau gbkgrlasobgvl gkppuliugpzkfgkbmuza,
vl gbmugorcujggRbgqvagvoakgklugkpgbmugwzrlirwvog kibzrluagkpgUwriszsa;
pkzgbmragwzuiuwbgkpgmragauib,gIkliuvogbmtgorpu,gbmvbgpkz.r agfulgbk
ulisf.uzgbmufauonuagqrbmgws.origluxkbrvbrklagvl gkppriua,gvoak
luiuaavzrotgwzuaswwkauagvgiklbufwbgkpgxokzt,gqmrimgragbmugqkzo ’a
vwwzk.vbrklgkpgbmkaugvibrklagqugwzk siugrlgws.orij--[Wosbvzim,gQmubmuz
bmugavtrlx,gIkliuvogbmtgorpu,gragquoogavr j]--Mugbmvbg.r agsagikliuvo
kszauonua,gvl gbkgmvnuglkgkbmuzgikliuzlg.sbgpkzgkszauonua,gvl gqmkgqroo
lkbgmvnugsagclkqlgbkgkbmuza,gqkso gfsimgouaagmvnugsagmklkszu gvl 
xokzrpru ;gvl gakgv nrauagR kfulusaglkbgrlgvltgakzbgbkgzuxsovbugmra
vibrklag.tgbmugikffklgzuwsbvbrklgkzgkwrlrkl,guhiuwbgakgvagbkgvnkr gbmu
kbmuzgviir ulbvogrliklnulruliuagbmvbgbmugiklbufwbgkpgfulgfrxmbg.zrlxgswkl
mrfj

Bmuaug raikszauagvzu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gnuztgbzsugvl gzvbrklvo;g.sbgqugvzu,
Rgclkqglkbgmkq,g ks.ougrlgkszauonua,gqmrimgragbmugivsaugbmvbgqmvbgqu
.uorunugqug kglkbg.uorunu,gvl givllkbg raulxvxugkszauonuagpzkfgqmvbgqu
ikl ufljggOubgsagauugbmugovabgvl g trlxgqkz agkpgUwriszsa;gbmutgvzu
xzvl ,gvl gqkzbmtgkpgasimgvgwmrokakwmuz,gvl gtubgbmutgivzztgakfugbksimua
kpgbmugzuikfful vbrklgkpgmraglvfugvl gkpgbmvbgmsfkszgmugmv g uizru g.t
mragwzuiuwbajggMuzugragvgoubbuzgbmvbgmug ribvbu gvgorbboug.upkzugmragovab
xvaw:

ggggggggggggggggggggg“UWRISTSAgBKgMUTFVIMSA,gmuvobmj

ggggg“QmroabgRgqvagwvaarlxgknuzgbmugmvwwtgvl govabg vtgkpgftgorpu,gR
gggggqzrbugbmra,g.sb,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gvpporibu gqrbmgasimgwvrlgrlgft
ggggg.ov  uzgvl g.kquoagbmvbglkbmrlxgivlg.ugxzuvbuz,g.sbgrbgqva
gggggzuikfwulau gqrbmgbmugwouvaszugbmugzufuf.zvliugkpgftgrlnulbrklagvl 
ggggg kibzrluag.zksxmbgbkgftgaksojggLkq,gvagbmugvppuibrklgbmksgmvabgunuz
gggggpzkfgbmtgrlpvlitg.kzlugbkqvz agfugvl gwmrokakwmtgzuesrzua,gbvcugswkl
gggggbmuugbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgFubzk kzsa’gimro zulj”

BmragragbmugoubbuzjggVl gbmvbgqmrimgfvcuagfugrlbuzwzubgbmvbgbmugwouvaszu
mugavtagmugmv grlgmragaksogikliuzlrlxgmragrlnulbrkla,gmvagakfugzupuzuliu
bkgbmugzuwsbvbrklgmugmkwu gpkzgbmuliugvpbuzgmrag uvbm,gragbmugfvlluzgkp
mragqroo,grlgqmrimgmugxrnuagkz uzgbmvbgVftlkfvimsagvl gBrfkizvbua,gmra
murza,gamkso ,gunuztgYvlsvzt,g upzvtgbmuguhwulaugkpgbmugiuou.zvbrklgkp
mrag.rzbm vtgvagMuzfvimsagamkso gvwwkrlb;gvl gvoakgbmuguhwulaugbmvb
amkso g.ugfv ugbmugbqulbrubmgkpgunuztgfkklgrlgulbuzbvrlrlxgbmu
wmrokakwmuza,gmragpzrul a,gqmkgamkso gvaauf.ougrlgmklkszgkpgbmugfufkztgkp
mrfgvl gkpgFubzk kzsaj--[Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.sa,grrjg30j]

Ivzluv uagqvagmuv gkpgbmugiklbzvztgkwrlrkl,gvl gfvrlbvrlu gbmvbgxokztgqva
bkg.ug uarzu gpkzgrbauop,gunulgvagquguf.zviugkszgwkabmsfksagraasugpkz
bmufauonua,gmvnrlxglkgclkqou xuglkzgulyktfulbgkpgbmufjggBmragkwrlrklgmva
lkbgpvrou gbkg.ugbmugfkzugslrnuzavootgpkookqu ,gvagbmkaugikffklotgvzu
bmvbgvzugfkabgasrbv.ougbkgkszgrliorlvbrklajggVzrabkbougxrnuagrbgbmugprzab
woviugvfklxabguhbuzlvogxkk a;gvl gvnkr a,gvagbkkguhbzufugnriua,gbmu
rffk uzvbugurbmuzgauucrlxgkzgunv rlxgrbjggRg.uorunugbmvb,grpgqugmv gbmu
.kkcagIriuzkgqzkbugswklgbmragas.yuib,gqugamkso gbmuzugprl gwzubbt
abkzrua;gpkzgmugqvagakgwkaauaau gqrbmgbmragwvaarkl,gbmvb,grpgmugmv 
 vzu ,gRgbmrlcgmugikso gqroorlxotgmvnugpvooulgrlbkgbmuguhiuaagbmvbgkbmuza
 r ,gbmvbgnrzbsugrbauopgqvaglkbgbkg.ugiknubu ,g.sbgswklgbmugviikslbgkp
bmugmklkszgbmvbgvoqvtagvbbul agrb:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Wvsosfgauwsobvug rabvbgrluzbrvu
ggggggggggggggggggggIuovbvgnrzbsa:”

gggggggggg[“Nrzbsugikliuvou gorbboug rppuzagpzkfg uv gaokbmj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjgg9,g29j]

qmrimgragvlgkwrlrklgakgpvoau,gbmvbgRgvfgnuhu grbgikso gunuzgulbuzgrlbk
bmugsl uzabvl rlxgkpgvgfvlgbmvbgqvagmklkszu gqrbmgbmuglvfugkp
wmrokakwmuzj

Rpgbmragquzugbzsu,gfulgluu glkbg.ugnrzbsksag.sbgrlgws.ori;gvl gqugamkso 
.uglkgpszbmuzgikliuzlu gbkgcuuwgbmugkwuzvbrklagkpgbmugakso,gqmrimgragbmu
bzsugauvbgkpgnrzbsu,gzuxsovzgvl grlgkz uz,gbmvlgvagbmutgvzugbkgvzzrnugvb
bmugclkqou xugkpgkbmuzajggRagbmuzuglkgfkzugrlgrb,gbmul,g.sbgklotgaorot
vl gqrbmgirzisfawuibrklgbkg kgroo?gg“Rpgbmksgclkquab,”gavtagIvzluv ua,
“kpgvgauzwulbgoszcrlxgrlgvgwoviugqmuzu,gqrbmksbgasawrirkl,gvgwuzaklgra
xkrlxgbkgarbg kql,g.tgqmkaug uvbmgbmksguhwuibuabgvlgv nvlbvxu,gbmksg kab
roogrpgbmksg kabglkbgxrnugmrfgivsbrklgkpgmrag vlxuz;gvl gakgfsimgbmugfkzu
.uivsaugbmugvibrklgragbkg.ugclkqlg.tglklug.sbgbmtauopj”ggRpgqug kglkb
bvcugswgkpgkszauonuagbmugzsougkpgquoo- krlx,grpgrfwslrbtgwvaagqrbmgsagpkz
ysabriu,gbkgmkqgfvltgakzbagkpgqricu luaagamvoogqugunuztg vtgv.vl kl
kszauonua?ggRg kglkbgprl gqmvbgAuhbsagWu siusag r ,grlgpvrbmpsoot
zuabkzrlxgbmugbzuvaszugbmvbgIjgWokbrsagmv gikffrbbu gbkgmragakougauizuit
vl gbzsab,gvgbmrlxgbmvbgRgmvnugkpbulg klugftauop,gakgikfful v.ou,gvagR
amkso gbmrlcgrbgvlguhuizv.oug.vauluaa,gmv gqug klugkbmuzqrau;gvl gRgbmrlc
rbgkpgxkk gsaugrlgkszg vtagbkgzuivoogbmuguhvfwougkpgWjgAuhbrorsagZspsa,
qmkfgIriuzkgviisauagbkgmvnugulbuzu gswklgvlgrlmuzrbvliugiklbzvztgbkgmra
iklairuliu,glkbgklotglkbgvxvrlabgovq,g.sbgunulg.tgbmug ubuzfrlvbrklgkp
bmugovqagbmufauonua;gvl gFjgIzvaasagvl gMkzbularsa,gqmk,g.tgzuvaklgkp
bmurzgvsbmkzrbtgvl gwkquz,gmvnrlxg.uulgivoou grlg.tgvgabzvlxuzgbkgamvzu
rlgbmugasiiuaarklgkpgvgpkzxu gqroo,gbmvbgakgmugfrxmbgauiszugmragkqlgwvzb,
avbrapru gbmufauonuagqrbmgmvnrlxglkgmvl grlgbmugpkzxuzt,gvl gzupsau glkb
bkgfvcugbmurzgv nvlbvxugvl gbkgikfugrlgpkzgvgamvzu:gauiszugulksxm,grp
bmutgikso gamzks gbmufauonuagpzkfgviisavbrkla,gqrbluaaua,gvl gbmu
ikxlravliugkpgbmugovqa:

gggggggggg“Fufrluzrlbg usfgaugmv.uzugbuabuf,gr guabg(sbguxkgvz.rbzkz)
ggggggggggfulbufgasvfj”

ggggg[“Oubgbmufgiklar uzgbmutgmvnugXk gbkgqrbluaa,gbmvbgrag(vagR
gggggrlbuzwzubgrb),gbmurzgkqlgiklairuliuaj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjg10j]

Nrzbsugragvgnuztgnvrlgvl gpzrnkoksagbmrlxgrpgrbg uzrnugrbagzuikfful vbrkl
pzkfgxokzt;gvl g‘bragbkglkgwszwkaugbmvbgqugul uvnkszgbkgxrnugrbgvgabvbrkl
.tgrbauop,gvl gauwvzvbugrbgpzkfgpkzbslu;gpkzgqmvbgragfkzugviir ulbvogbmvl
zuwsbvbrkl?

ggggg“Wzkpuibkgpkzbslvgrlgkflrgzug kfrlvbsz:guvgzuagislibvaguh
gggggor.r rlugfvxra,gesmfguhgnuzk,giuou.zvb,gk.aiszvbesuj”

ggggg[“Pkzbslugzsouagrlgvoogbmrlxa;grbgv nvliuagvl g uwzuaauagbmrlxa
gggggfkzugksbgkpgrbagkqlgqroogbmvlgkpgzrxmbgvl gysabriuj”
gggggg--Avoosab,gIvbrorlv,gijg8j]

Akgbkgkz uzgrbgbmvbgvibrklagfvtg.ugclkqlgvl gauulgragwszuotgbmugqkzcgkp
pkzbslu;g‘bragimvliugbmvbgmuowagsagbkgxokzt,gviikz rlxgbkgrbagkql
bufuzrbtjggRgmvnugkpbulgauulgmuzgxkg.upkzugfuzrb,gvl gkpbulgnuztgfsim
ksbabzrwgrbjggMugqmkgprzabgorculu gxokztgbkgvgamv kqg r g.ubbuzgbmvlgmu
qvagvqvzugkp;gbmutgvzug.kbmgkpgbmufgbmrlxagwzu-ufrlulbotgnvrlgxokztgvoak,
orcugvgamv kq,gxkuagakfubrfuag.upkzugbmug.k t,gvl gakfubrfuagrlgoulxbm
rlprlrbuotguhiuu agrbjggBmutgqmkgrlabzsibgxulboufulgklotgbkgufwoktgbmurz
nvokszgpkzgbmugk.bvrlrlxgkpgmklksz:

gggggggggg“Esvarglklgarbgmkluabsf,gesk glk.rorbvbsfglklgarb;”

gggggggggg[“Vagbmksxmgrbgquzuglkbgvgnrzbsu,gslouaagiuou.zvbu ”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzkg ugKpprijgrrrjg10j]

qmvbg kgbmutgrlbul g.tgbmvbg.sbgbkgrlabzsibgbmufglunuzgbkgmvdvz 
bmufauonuagrpgbmutgvzuglkbgauul,gvl gbkgk.auznugquoogrpgbmuzug.u
qrbluaauagwzuaulbgqmkgfvtgivzztgluqagkpgbmurzgnvoksz,gqmuzuvagvgbmksavl 
kiivarklagkpgquoo- krlxgwzuaulbgbmufauonuagqmrimgivllkbg.ugbvculglkbriu
kp?ggMkqgfvltg.zvnugrl rnr svogvibrklagvzug.szru grlgbmugizkq gkpgv
.vbbou?ggQmkunuzgamvoogbvcugswklgmrfgbkgqvbimgvlkbmuz’ag.umvnrkszgrlgasim
vgiklpsarklgraglkbgnuztg.satgmrfauop,gvl gbmugbuabrfkltgmugamvoogxrnugkp
mragikfwvlrkla’g uwkzbfulbgqroog.ugunr uliugvxvrlabgmrfauop:

gggggggggg“Nuzvgubgavwrulagvlrfrgfvxlrbs k,gmkluabsfgroos ,
ggggggggggesk gfvhrfuglvbszvfgauesrbsz,grlgpvibragwkarbsf,
gggggggggglklgrlgxokzrv,gys rivbj”

ggggg[“Bmugbzsugvl gqraugfvxlvlrfrbtgys xuagbmvbgbmug.zvnuztgqmrimgfkab
gggggpkookqaglvbszugfkzugiklarabagrlgvibgbmvlgxokztj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprijgrjg19j]

VoogbmugxokztgbmvbgRgwzubul gbkg uzrnugpzkfgftgorpugragbmvbgRgmvnugornu 
rbgrlgesrub;grlgesrub,glkbgviikz rlxgbkgFubzk kzsa,gkzgVziuarovsa,gkz
Vzrabrwwsa,g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgftauopjggPkzgauurlxgwmrokakwmtgmvaglkbg.uul
v.ougbkgprl gksbgvltgqvtgbkgbzvlesroorbtgbmvbgragxkk grlgikffkl,goub
unuztgklugauucgrbgrlgwvzbrisovzj

Bkgqmvbg kgIvuavzgvl gVouhvl uzgkqugbmugrlprlrbugxzvl uszgkpgbmurzgzulkql
.sbgbkgpkzbslu?ggMkqgfvltgfulgmvagamuguhbrlxsramu grlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkp
bmurzgwzkxzuaa,gkpgqmkfgqugmvnuglkgclkqou xu,gqmkg.zksxmbgvagfsimgikszvxu
bkgbmugqkzcgvagbmut,grpgbmurzgv nuzaugmvwgmv glkbgisbgbmufgkppgrlgbmu
przabgavootgkpgbmurzgvzfa?ggVfklxabgakgfvltgvl gakgxzuvbg vlxuzagRg kglkb
zufuf.uzgRgmvnugvltqmuzugzuv gbmvbgIvuavzgqvagunuzgqksl u ;gvgbmksavl 
mvnugpvooulgrlgouaag vlxuzagbmvlgbmugouvabgkpgbmkaugmugqulbgbmzksxmjggVl
rlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpg.zvnugvibrklagfsabg.ugwuzpkzfu gqrbmksbgqrbluaagvl 
okab,g.upkzugklugbszlagbkgviikslbjggVgfvlgraglkbgvoqvtagklgbmugbkwgkpgv
.zuvim,gkzgvbgbmugmuv gkpgvlgvzft,grlgbmugarxmbgkpgmragxuluzvo,gvagswklgv
aivppko ;gvgfvlgragkpbulgaszwzrau g.ubqrhbgbmugmu xugvl gbmug rbim;gmu
fsabgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgmragorpugvxvrlabgvgmulzkkab;gmugfsabg raok xugpksz
zvaivootgfsacubuuzagksbgkpgvg.vzl;gmugfsabgwzricgksbgarlxougpzkfgmra
wvzbt,gvl gvoklugfvcugakfugvbbufwba,gviikz rlxgvagluiuaarbtgqroogmvnugrbj
Vl gqmkunuzgqroogk.auznugqroo,gRg.uorunu,gprl grbguhwuzrfulbvootgbzsu,
bmvbgkiivarklagkpgbmugouvabgosabzugvzugunuzgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa;gvl gbmvb
rlgbmugqvzagkpgkszgkqlgbrfuagbmuzugmvnugfkzug.zvnugfulg.uulgokabgrl
kiivarklagkpgorbbougfkfulb,gvl grlgbmug rawsbugv.ksbgakfugorbbougwvobzt
pkzb,gbmvlgrlgwoviuagkpgxzuvbuabgrfwkzbvliu,gvl gqmuzugbmurzgnvokszgfrxmb
mvnug.uulgfkzugmklkszv.otgufwoktu j

Qmkgbmrlcagmrag uvbmgvimrunu gbkgroogwszwkaugrpgmug kglkbgpvoogklgakfu
arxlvogkiivarkl,grlabuv gkpgroosabzvbrlxgmrag uvbm,gqropsootgk.aiszuagmra
orpu,gasppuzrlxgrlgbmugfuvlbrfugfvltgnuztgysabgkiivarklagkpgmvdvz rlx
mrfauopgbkgaorwgksbgkpgmragmvl a;gvl gunuztgysabgklugragroosabzrksa
ulksxm,gunuztgfvl’agiklairuliug.urlxgvgaspprirulbgbzsfwubgbkgmrfj

gggggggggg“Xokzrvglkabzvguabgbuabrfklrsfgiklairulbrvuglkabzvuj”

ggggg[“Pkzgkszgzuykrirlxgragbmra,gbmugbuabrfkltgkpgkszgiklairuliuj”
gggggg--Ikzrlbmrvla,grjgRj]

Mugqmkgragklotgvgxkk gfvlgbmvbgfulgfvtgclkqgrb,gvl gbmvbgmugfvtg.ugbmu
.ubbuzguabuufu gqmulg‘bragclkql;gqmkgqrooglkbg kgquoog.sbgswklgikl rbrkl
bmvbgmragnrzbsugfvtg.ugclkqlgbkgful:gragklugpzkfgqmkfgfsimgauznriugraglkb
bkg.uguhwuibu :

gggggggggggggg“Izu kgimg‘uogzuabug rgesuognuzlk,gikau
gggggggggggggggPviuaaug uxlug rgbuluzglugiklbk;
gggggggggggggggFvgpszgprl’gvgesuogbufwkgarglvaikau,
gggggggggggggggImuglklgvgikowvgfrvga’gmkzg‘lklgougiklbk
gggggggggggggggWuzimugKzovl kgvgpvzgo’kwzugnrzbskau
gggggggggggggggWrsgim’vglvzzvzgougwkrgaufwzuguzvgwzklbk;
gggggggggggggggLugfvrgpsgvoisl’g u’askrgpvbbrguawzuaak,
gggggggggggggggAuglklgesvl kgu..ugrgbuabrfklrrgvwwzuaakj”

ggggg[“Bmugzuabgkpgbmugqrlbuz,gRg.uorunu,gqvagawulbgrlgvibrklagqkzbmtgkp
ggggglvzzvbrkl,g.sbgbmutgquzug klugakgauizubotgbmvbgrpgRg kglkbgbuoogbmuf
gggggRgvfglkbgbkg.ovfu,gpkzgKzovl kgqvagfkzug.ulbgbkg kgxzuvbgvibagbmvl
gggggbkg.kvabgkpgbmuf,gakgbmvbglkg uu agkpgmragquzugunuzgclkqlg.sbgbmkau
gggggbmvbgmv gqrbluaauaj”--Vzrkabk,gKzovl kgPszrkak,ghrjg81j]

Vgfvlgfsabgxkgbkgbmugqvzgswklgbmugviikslbgkpg sbt,gvl guhwuibgbmu
zuikfwulaugbmvbglunuzgpvroag.zvnugvl gqkzbmtgvibrkla,gmkqgwzrnvbugakunuz,
kzgunulgnrzbsksagbmksxmba-bmugavbrapvibrklgbmvbgvgquoo- rawkau 
iklairuliugzuiurnuagrlgrbauopgrlg krlxgquoojggVgfvlgfsabg.ugnvorvlbgpkz
mrfauop,gvl gswklgviikslbgkpgbmugv nvlbvxugrbgragbkgmrfgbkgmvnugmra
ikszvxugauvbu grlgvgprzfgvl gauiszugwoviugvxvrlabgbmugvaavsobagkp
pkzbslu:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Nrzbsa,gzuwsoavvgluairvgakz r h
ggggggggggggggggggggRlbvfrlvbragpsoxubgmklkzr.sa
ggggggggggggggggggggLuigasfrb,gvsbgwklrbgauiszua
ggggggggggggggggggggVz.rbzrkgwkwsovzragvszvj”

ggggg[“Nrzbsu,gzuws rvbrlxgvoog.vaugzuwsoau,gamrluagrlgbvrlbouaa
gggggmklksza,glkzgbvcuaglkzgouvnuag rxlrbtgvbgbmugfuzugqroogkpgbmu
gggggnsoxvzj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg2,g17j]

Rbgraglkbgpkzgksbqvz gamkqgbmvbgbmugaksogragbkgwovtgrbagwvzb,g.sbgpkz
kszauonuagqrbmrl,gqmuzuglkgutuagivlgwruziug.sbgkszgkql;gbmuzugamug upul a
sagpzkfgbmugpuvzgkpg uvbm,gkpgwvrl,gkpgamvfugrbauop:gbmuzugamugvzfagsa
vxvrlabgbmugokaagkpgkszgimro zul,gpzrul a,gvl gpkzbslua:gvl gqmul
kwwkzbslrbtgwzuaulbagrbauop,gamugouv agsagklgbkgbmugmvdvz agkpgqvz:

gggggggggg“Lklgufkosfulbkgvoresk,gau grwarsagmkluabvbrag uikzuj”

ggggg[“Lkbgpkzgvltgwzkprb,g.sbgpkzgbmugmklkszgkpgmkluabtgrbauopj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grjg10j]

Bmragwzkprbgragkpgfsimgxzuvbuzgv nvlbvxu,gvl gfkzugqkzbmtgbkg.ugiknubu 
vl gmkwu gpkz,gbmvl,gmklkszgvl gxokzt,gqmrimgvzuglkgkbmuzgbmvlgv
pvnkszv.ougys xfulbgxrnulgkpgsaj

Vg kdulgfulgfsabg.ugivoou gksbgkpgvgqmkouglvbrklgbkgys xugv.ksbgvlgvizu
kpgovl ;gvl gbmugys xfulbgkpgkszgrliorlvbrklagvl gvibrkla,gbmugfkab
 rpprisobgvl gfkabgrfwkzbvlbgfvbbuzgbmvbgra,gqugzupuzgbkgbmugnkriugvl 
 ubuzfrlvbrklgkpgbmugzv..ou,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgrxlkzvliu,grlysabriu,gvl 
rliklabvlitjggRagrbgzuvaklv.ougbmvbgbmugorpugkpgvgqraugfvlgamkso 
 uwul gswklgbmugys xfulbgkpgpkkoa?

gggggggggg“Vlgesr esvfgabsobrsa,gesvf,geskagarlxsokagiklbuflva,
ggggggggggukagvoresr gwsbvzuguaaugslrnuzaua?”

ggggg[“Ivlgvltbmrlxg.ugfkzugpkkoramgbmvlgbkgbmrlcgbmvbgbmkaugtksg uawrau
gggggarlxot,givlg.ugvltbmrlxguoaugrlgxuluzvoj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg36j]

Mugbmvbgfvcuagrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgwouvaugbmuf,gqroogmvnugulksxmgbkg kgvl 
lunuzgmvnug klu;g‘bragvgfvzcgbmvbgivlglunuzg.ugvrfu gvbgkzgmrb:

gggggggggg“Lrogbvfgrlvuabrfv.rouguab,gesvfgvlrfrgfsobrbs rlraj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragbkg.ugakgorbbougsl uzabkk gvagbmugfrl agkpgbmu
gggggfsobrbs uj”--Ornt,ghhhrjg34j]

 ufubzrsagwouvavlbotgavr gkpgbmugnkriugkpgbmugwukwou,gbmvbgmugfv uglk
fkzugviikslbgkpgbmvbgqmrimgivfugpzkfgv.knugbmvlgkpgbmvbgqmrimgivfugpzkf
.uokqjggMug[Iriuzk]gavtagfkzu:

gggggggggg“Uxkgmkigys rik,gargesvl kgbszwuglklgarb,gbvfulglkl
gggggggggguaauglklgbszwu,gessfgr gvgfsobrbs rlugovs vbszj”

ggggg[“Rgvfgkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgbmksxmgvgbmrlxg.uglkbgpksogrlgrbauop,
gggggtubgrbgivllkbg.sbg.uikfugakgqmulgikfful u g.tgbmugfsobrbs uj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grrjg15j]

Lkgvzb,glkgvibrnrbtgkpgqrb,gikso gikl sibgkszgabuwagakgvagbkgpkookqgak
qvl uzrlxgvl gakgrzzuxsovzgvgxsr u;grlgbmragqrl tgiklpsarklgkpgbmuglkrau
kpgnsoxvzgzuwkzbagvl gkwrlrklagbmvbg zrnugsagkl,glkgqvtgqkzbmgvltbmrlx
ivlg.ugimkauljggOubgsaglkbgwzkwkaugbkgkszauonuagakgpokvbrlxgvl gqvnuzrlx
vlgul ;goubgsagpkookqgiklabvlbotgvpbuzgzuvakl;goubgbmugws.origvwwzk.vbrkl
pkookqgsagbmuzu,grpgrbgqroo;gvl gvagrbgqmkootg uwul agswklgpkzbslu,gqu
mvnuglkgzuvaklgakkluzgbkguhwuibgrbg.tgvltgkbmuzgqvtgbmvlgbmvbjggUnul
bmksxmgRgqkso glkbgpkookqgbmugzrxmbgqvtg.uivsaugrbgragzrxmb,gRgamkso ,
mkqunuz,gpkookqgrbgvagmvnrlxguhwuzrfulbvootgpksl gbmvb,gvbgbmugul gkp
bmugzuicklrlx,g‘bragikffklotgbmugfkabgmvwwtgvl gkpgxzuvbuabgsbrorbtj

gggggggggggggg“ u rbgmkigwzknr ulbrvgmkfrlr.sagfslsa,
gggggggggggggggsbgmkluabvgfvxragysnvzulbj”

ggggg[“BmragxrpbgWzknr uliugmvagxrnulgbkgful,gbmvbgmkluabgbmrlxagamkso 
ggggg.ugbmugfkabgvxzuuv.ouj”--Esrlbrorvl,gRlabjgKzvbj,grjg12j]

Bmugfvzrluzgkpgko gavr gbmsagbkgLuwbslu,grlgvgxzuvbgbufwuab:g“KgXk ,gbmks
qrobgavnugfugrpgbmksgqrob,gvl grpgbmksgimkkauab,gbmksgqrobg uabzktgfu;
.sb,gmkqunuz,gRgqroogmko gftgzs  uzgabzvrxmbj”--[Auluiv,gUwj,g85j]--
Rgmvnugauulgrlgftgbrfugvgbmksavl gfulgaswwou,gmvop.zu ,gvf.rxsksa,gqmkf
lkgklug ks.bu gbkg.ugfkzugqkzo ot-qraugbmvlgR,gokaugbmufauonua,gqmuzugR
mvnugavnu gftauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Zrargasiiuaasagwkaaugivzuzug kokaj”

gggggggggg[“Rgmvnugovsxmu gbkgauugisllrlxgpvrogkpgasiiuaaj”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gMuzkr ,grjg18j]

WvsosagVUfrorsa,gxkrlxgklgbmugxokzrksaguhwu rbrklgkpgFviu klrv,gv.knugvoo
bmrlxagimvzxu gbmugwukwougkpgZkfuglkbgbkgawuvcgkpgmragvibrklag szrlxgmra
v.auliujggKm,gbmugoriulaugkpgys xfulbagragvgxzuvbg rabsz.vliugbkgxzuvb
vppvrza!ggpkzvafsimgvagunuztgklugmvaglkbgbmugprzfluaagkpgPv.rsagvxvrlab
ikffkl,gv nuzau,gvl grlyszrksagbklxsua,gqmkgzvbmuzgasppuzu gmragvsbmkzrbt
bkg.ug raauibu g.tgbmugnvrlgpvliruagkpgful,gbmvlgbkg kgouaagquoogrlgmra
imvzxugqrbmgvgpvnkszv.ougzuwsbvbrklgvl gbmugwkwsovzgvwwovsauj

BmuzugragRgclkqglkbgqmvbglvbszvogaquubluaagrlgmuvzrlxgklu’agauop
ikfful u ;g.sbgqugvzugvgxzuvbg uvogbkkgpkl gkpgrb:

ggggggggg“Ovs vzrgfubsvf,gluesugulrfgfrmrgikzluvgpr.zvguab
ggggggggggAu gzuibrgprlufesuguhbzufsfesuguaaugzuisak
ggggggggggUsxugbssf,gubg.uoouj”

ggggg[“Rgamkso gpuvzgbkg.ugwzvrau ,gpkzgftgmuvzbgraglkbgfv ugkpgmkzl;
ggggg.sbgRg ultgbmvbg‘uhiuooulb--v frzv.otg klu,’gvzugbmugbuzfagvl 
gggggprlvogvrfgkpgnrzbsuj”--Wuzarsa,grjg47j]

RgivzuglkbgakgfsimgqmvbgRgvfgrlgbmugkwrlrklagkpgkbmuza,gvagqmvbgRgvfgrl
ftgkql;gRgqkso g.ugzrimgkpgftauop,gvl glkbg.tg.kzzkqrlxjggAbzvlxuzagauu
lkbmrlxg.sbgunulbagvl gksbqvz gvwwuvzvliua;gunuzt.k tgivlgaubgvgxkk gpviu
klgbmugfvbbuz,gqmulgbmutgmvnugbzuf.orlxgvl gbuzzkzgqrbmrl:gbmutg kglkb
auugftgmuvzb,gbmutgauug.sbgftgikslbulvliujggKlugragzrxmbgrlg uiztrlxgbmu
mtwkizratgbmvbgragrlgqvz;gpkzgqmvbgragfkzuguvatgbkgvlgko gako ruzgbmvlgbk
amrpbgrlgvgbrfugkpg vlxuz,gvl gbkgikslbuzpurbgbmug.zvnugqmulgmugmvaglk
fkzugmuvzbgbmvlgvgimricul?ggBmuzugvzugakgfvltgqvtagbkgvnkr gmvdvz rlxgv
fvl’agkqlgwuzakl,gbmvbgqugmvnug uiurnu gbmugqkzo gvgbmksavl gbrfuag.upkzu
qugikfugbkg.ugulxvxu grlgvgzuvog vlxuz:gvl gunulgbmul,gprl rlxgkszauonua
rlgvlgrlunrbv.ougluiuaarbtgkpg krlxgakfubmrlx,gqugivlgfvcugamrpbgpkzgbmvb
brfugbkgikliuvogkszgvwwzumularklag.tgaubbrlxgvgxkk gpviugklgbmug.sarluaa,
bmksxmgbmugmuvzbg.uvbagqrbmrl;gvl gqmkunuzgmv gbmugsaugkpgbmugWovbklri
zrlx,gqmrimgzul uzagbmkaugrlnrar.ougbmvbgquvzgrb,grpgbszlu grlqvz 
bkqvz agbmugwvofgkpgbmugmvl ,gvgxzuvbgfvltgqkso gnuztgkpbulgmr u
bmufauonuagqmulgbmutgksxmbgfkabgbkgvwwuvz,gvl gqkso gzuwulbg.urlxgwoviu 
rlgakgmklkszv.ougvgwkab,gqmuzugluiuaarbtgfsabgfvcugbmufg.ko j

gggggggggggggg“Pvoasagmklkzgysnvb,gubgful vhgrlpvfrvgbuzzub
gggggggggggggggEsufglrargful kasfgubgful viuf?”

gggggggggg[“Pvoaugmklkszgwouvaua,gvl givosfltgvppzrxmba,gbmugxsrobt
ggggggggggvl gbmugaricj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg16,g89j]

Bmsagqugauugmkqgvoogbmugys xfulbagbmvbgvzugpksl u gswklguhbuzlvo
vwwuvzvliua,gvzugfvznuooksaotgsliuzbvrlgvl g ks.bpso;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugra
lkgakgiuzbvrlgbuabrfkltgvagunuztgklugragbkgmrfauopjggRlgbmuau,gmkqgfvlt
ako ruza’g.ktagvzugikfwvlrklagkpgkszgxokzt?ggmugqmkgabvl agprzfgrlgvl
kwulgbzulim,gqmvbg kuagmugrlgbmvbgfkzugbmvlgprpbtgwkkzgwrkluuzagqmkgkwul
bkgmrfgbmugqvtgvl giknuzgrbgqrbmgbmurzgkqlg.k ruagpkzgprnuwuliugvg vt
wvt,g kg.upkzugmrf?

gggggggggggggg“Lklgesriesr gbsz.r vgZkfv
gggggggggggggggUounub,gviiu va;guhvfulesugrfwzk.sfgrlgroov
gggggggggggggggIvabrxuagbzsbrlv:gluigbkgesvuarnuzraguhbzvj”

ggggg[“ kglkb,grpgbsz.soulbgZkfug rawvzvxugvltbmrlx,gviiu u;glkzgikzzuib
gggggvgpvoaug.vovliug.tgbmvbgaivou;glkzgauucgvltbmrlxg.utkl gbmtauopj”
gggggg--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grjg5j]

Bmug rawuzarlxgvl gaivbbuzrlxgkszglvfuagrlbkgfvltgfksbma,gqugivoogfvcrlx
bmufgfkzugxzuvb;gqugqroogmvnugbmufgbmuzugquoogzuiurnu ,gvl gbmvbgbmra
rlizuvaugbszlgbkgbmurzgv nvlbvxu,gqmrimgragvoogbmvbgivlg.uguhisav.ougrl
bmrag uarxljgg.sbgbmuguhiuaagkpgbmrag rauvaugwzkiuu agakgpvzgbmvbgfvlt
iknubgbkgmvnugvglvfu,g.ugrbgqmvbgrbgqroojggBzkxsagWkfwursagavtagkp
Muzkabzvbsa,gvl gBrbsagOrnrsagkpgFvlorsagIvwrbkorlsa,gbmvbgbmutgquzugfkzu
vf.rbrksagkpgvgxzuvbgzuwsbvbrklgbmvlgkpgvgxkk gklujggBmragragnuztgikffkl;
qugvzugfkzugakorirbksagbmvbgfulgawuvcgkpgsa,gbmvlgmkqgbmutgawuvc;gvl grb
ragulksxmgpkzgsagbmvbgkszglvfuagvzugkpbulgfulbrklu ,g.ugrbgvpbuzgqmvb
fvlluzgrbgqroojggRbgamkso gauufgbmvbgbkg.ugclkql,gragrlgakfugakzbgbkgmvnu
vgfvl’agorpugvl grbag szvbrklgrlgkbmuza’gcuuwrlxjggR,gpkzgftgwvzb,gmko 
bmvbgRgvfglkb,g.sbgrlgftauop;gvl gkpgbmvbgkbmuzgorpugkpgfrlugqmrimgorua
rlgbmugclkqou xugkpgftgpzrul a,gbkgiklar uzgrbglvcu gvl garfwotgrl
rbauop,gRgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgRgvfgaular.ougkpglkgpzsrbglkzgulyktfulb
pzkfgrbg.sbg.tgbmugnvlrbtgkpgvgpvlbvabrigkwrlrkl;gvl gqmulgRgamvoog.u
 uv ,gRgamvoog.ugabroogvl gfsimgouaagaular.ougkpgrb;gvl gamvoo,gqrbmvo,
v.akosbuotgokaugbmugsaugkpgbmkaugzuvogv nvlbvxuagbmvbgakfubrfua
viir ulbvootgpkookqgrbj

Rgamvoogmvnuglkgfkzugmvl ougqmuzu.tgbkgbvcugmko gkpgzuwsbvbrkl,glurbmuz
amvoogrbgmvnugvltgqmuzu.tgbkgbvcugmko gkpgkzgbkgiouvnugbkgfu;gpkzgbk
uhwuibgbmvbgftglvfugamkso g.ugv nvliu g.tgrb,grlgbmugprzabgwoviu,gRgmvnu
lkglvfugbmvbgragulksxmgftgkql;gkpgbqkgbmvbgRgmvnu,gklugragikffklgbkgvoo
ftgzviu,gvl grl uu gbkgkbmuzagvoak;gbmuzugvzugbqkgpvfroruagvbgWvzragvl 
Fklbwuooruz,gqmkaugaszlvfugragFklbvrxlu,gvlkbmuzgrlg.zrbbvlt,gvl gklugrl
Hvrlbklxu,g ugOvgFklbvrxlujggBmugbzvlawkarbrklgkpgklugatoov.ougklotgqkso 
asppriugakgbkgzvnuogkszgvppvrza,gbmvbgRgamvoogamvzugrlgbmurzgxokzt,gvl 
bmutgwuzv nulbszugqroogwvzbvcugkpgftg raizu rb;gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gft
vliuabkzagmvnugpkzfuzotg.uulgaszlvfu ,gUtesuf,--[Utesufgqvagbmu
wvbzkltfrij]--vglvfugqmuzurlgvgpvfrotgquoogclkqlgrlgUlxovl gragvbgbmra
 vtgikliuzlu jggVagbkgftgkbmuzglvfu,gunuztgklugfvtgbvcugrbgbmvbgqroo,gvl 
ak,gwuzmvwa,gRgfvtgmklkszgvgwkzbuzgrlgftgkqlgabuv jggVl g.uar ua,gbmksxm
Rgmv gvgwvzbrisovzg rabrlibrklg.tgftauop,gqmvbgivlgrbg rabrlxsram,gqmulgR
vfglkgfkzu?ggIvlgrbgwkrlbgksbgvl gpvnkszgrlvlrbt?

gggggggggggggg“Lklgounrkzgirwwsaglsligrfwzrfrbgkaav?
gggggggggggggggOvs vbgwkabuzrbva!ggLsliglklgugfvlr.sagroora,
gggggggggggggggLsliglklgvgbsfsokgpkzbslvbvesugpvnroov,
gggggggggggggggLvaiulbszgnrkovu?”

ggggg[“ kuagbmugbkf.gwzuaagqrbmgouaagqurxmbgswklgftg.klua?gg kgikfzv ua
gggggwzvrau?ggLkbgpzkfgftgfvlua,glkbgpzkfgbmugbkf.,glkbgpzkfgbmugvamua
gggggqroognrkoubagxzkqj”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,grjg37j]

.sbgkpgbmragRgmvnugawkculguoauqmuzujggVagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,grlgvgxzuvb
.vbbougqmuzugbulgbmksavl gfulgvzugfvrfu gkzgcroou ,gbmuzugvzuglkbgprpbuul
qmkgvzugbvculglkbriugkp;grbgfsabg.ugakfugnuztgufrlulbgxzuvbluaa,gkzgakfu
iklauesuliugkpgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbmvbgpkzbslugmvagv  u gbkgrb,gbmvb
arxlvorauagvgwzrnvbugvibrkl,glkbgkpgvgmvzesu.sauzgklot,g.sbgkpgvgxzuvb
ivwbvrl;gpkzgbkgcroogvgfvl,gkzgbqk,gkzgbul:gbkguhwkaugvgfvl’agauop
.zvnuotgbkgbmugsbfkabgwuzrogkpg uvbm,gragrl uu gakfubmrlxgrlgunuztgklugkp
sa,g.uivsaugqugbmuzugmvdvz gvoo;g.sbgpkzgbmugqkzo ’agikliuzl,gbmutgvzu
bmrlxagakgkz rlvzt,gvl gakgfvltgkpgbmufgvzugunuztg vtgauul,gvl gbmuzu
fsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugakgfvltgkpgbmugavfugcrl gbkgwzk siugvltglkbv.ou
uppuib,gbmvbgqugivllkbguhwuibgvltgwvzbrisovzgzulkqlgpzkfgrb:

gggggggggggggg“Ivasagfsobragmrigikxlrbsa,gvigyvf
gggggggggggggggBzrbsa,gubgvgfu rkgpkzbslvug sibsagviuznkj”

ggggg[“Bmugviir ulbgragclkqlgbkgfvlt,gvl glkqgbzrbu;gvl g zvqlgpzkfgbmu
gggggfr abgkpgPkzbslu’agmuvwj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghrrrjg9j]

Kpgakgfvltgbmksavl agkpgnvorvlbgfulgqmkgmvnug ru gqrbmrlgbmuaugprpbuul
msl zu gtuvzagrlgPzvliugqrbmgbmurzgaqkz agrlgbmurzgmvl a,glkbgvgmsl zu 
mvnugikfugbkgkszgclkqou xujggBmugfufkzt,glkbgkpgbmugikffvl uzagklot,g.sb
kpg.vbbouagvl gnribkzrua,grag.szru gvl gxklu;gbmugpkzbsluagkpgv.knugmvop
kpgbmugqkzo ,gpkzgqvlbgkpgvgzuikz ,gabrzglkbgpzkfgbmurzgwoviu,gvl gnvlram
qrbmksbg szvbrkljggRpgRgmv gslclkqlgunulbagrlgftgwkaauaarkl,gRgamkso 
bmrlcgqrbmgxzuvbguvaugbkgksb- kgbmkaugbmvbgvzugzuikz u ,grlgvoogakzbagkp
uhvfwouajggRagrbglkbgabzvlxugbmvbgunulgkpgbmugXzuucagvl gZkfvla,gqrbmgak
fvltgqzrbuzagvl gqrbluaaua,gvl gakgfvltgzvzugvl glk.ouguhwokrba,gakgpuq
vzugvzzrnu gvbgkszgclkqou xu:

ggggggggggggggg“V glkagnrhgbulsragpvfhgwuzov.rbszgvszvj”

ggggg[“Vlgk.aiszugzsfkszgaivziugragmrbmuzgikfuj”--VUlur ,gnrrjg646j]

Rbgqroog.ugfsimgrp,gvgmsl zu gtuvzagmuliu,grbg.ugzufuf.uzu grlgxuluzvo
bmvbgrlgkszgbrfuagbmuzugquzugirnrogqvzagrlgPzvliujggBmugOviu vufklrvla,
ulbuzrlxgrlbkg.vbbou,gavizrpriu gbkgbmugFsaua,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmurz
vibrklagfrxmbg.ugquoogvl gqkzbmrotgqzrbbul,gokkcrlxgswklgrbgvagvg rnrlu
vl glkgikffklgpvnksz,gbmvbg.zvnugvibagamkso gprl gqrbluaauagbmvbgikso 
xrnugbmufgorpugvl gfufkztjgg kgquguhwuibgbmvbgvbgunuztgfsacub-amkbgqu
zuiurnu,gvl gvbgunuztgmvdvz gqugzsl,gbmuzugfsabg.ugvgzuxrabuzgzuv tgbk
zuikz grb?ggvl ,g.uar ua,gvgmsl zu gzuxrabuzagfvtgulzkogbmufgqmkau
ikffulbvzruagqrooglkbgovabgv.knugbmzuug vta,gvl gqrooglunuzgikfugbkgbmu
arxmbgkpgvltgklujggQugmvnuglkbgbmugbmksavl bmgwvzbgkpgvlirulbgqzrbrlxa;
‘bragpkzbslugbmvbgxrnuagbmufgvgamkzbuzgkzgoklxuzgorpu,gviikz rlxgbkgmuz
pvnksz;gvl g‘bragwuzfraar.ougbkg ks.bgqmubmuzgbmkaugqugmvnug.uglkbgbmu
qkzab,glkbgmvnrlxgauulgbmugzuabjggFulg kglkbgqzrbugmrabkzruagkpgbmrlxagkp
akgorbbougfkfulb:gvgfvlgfsabgmvnug.uulgxuluzvogrlgbmugiklesuabgkpgvl
ufwrzugkzgvgcrlx kf;gmugfsabgmvnugqklgbqk-vl -prpbtgaubg.vbboua,gvl 
voqvtagbmugquvcuzgrlglsf.uz,gvagIvuavzg r :gbulgbmksavl g.zvnugpuookqa
vl gfvltgxzuvbgivwbvrlagokabgbmurzgornuagnvorvlbotgrlgmragauznriu,gqmkau
lvfuagovabu glkgoklxuzgbmvlgbmurzgqrnuagvl gimro zulgornu :

gggggggggggggggggggg“Eskagpvfvgk.aiszvgzuikl rbj”

ggggg[“Qmkfgvlgk.aiszugzuwsbvbrklgikliuvoaj”--VUlur ,gnjg302j]

Unulgbmkaugqmkfgqugauug.umvnugbmufauonuagquoo,gbmzuugfklbmagkzgbmzuu
tuvzagvpbuzgbmutgmvnug uwvzbu gmuliu,gvzuglkgfkzugfulbrklu gbmvlgrpgbmut
mv glunuzg.uuljggQmkunuzgqroogysabotgiklar uz,gvl gqrbmg sugwzkwkzbrkl,
kpgqmvbgcrl gkpgfulgvl gkpgqmvbgakzbgkpgvibrklagbmugxokztgasabvrlagrbauop
rlgbmugzuikz agkpgmrabkzt,gqroogprl gbmvbgbmuzugvzugnuztgpuqgvibrklagvl 
nuztgpuqgwuzaklagkpgkszgbrfuagqmkgivlgbmuzugwzubul gvltgzrxmbjggMkqgfvlt
qkzbmtgfulgmvnugqugclkqlgbkgasznrnugbmurzgkqlgzuwsbvbrkl,gqmkgmvnugauul
vl gasppuzu gbmugmklkszgvl gxokztgfkabgysabotgviesrzu grlgbmurzgtksbm,
uhbrlxsramu grlgbmurzgkqlgwzuauliu?ggVl gpkzgbmzuugtuvzagkpgbmra
pvlbvabrigvl grfvxrlvztgorpugqugfsabgxkgvl gbmzkqgvqvtgkszgbzsugvl 
uaaulbrvogorpu,gvl gulxvxugkszauonuagrlgvgwuzwubsvog uvbm!ggBmugavxua
wzkwkaugbkgbmufauonuagvglk.ouzgvl gfkzugysabgul grlgakgrfwkzbvlbgvl
ulbuzwzrau:

gggggggggg“Zuibugpvibr,gpuiraaugfuziuaguab:gkpprirrgpzsibsa,
ggggggggggrwasfgkpprirsfguabj”

ggggg[“Bmugzuqvz gkpgvgbmrlxgquoog klugragbkgmvnug klugrb;gbmugpzsrb
gggggkpgvgxkk gauznriugragbmugauznriugrbauopj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g8j]

Rbgquzu,gwuzv nulbszu,guhisav.ougrlgvgwvrlbuzgkzgkbmuzgvzbravl,gkzgrlgv
zmubkzrirvlgkzgvgxzvffvzrvl,gbkgul uvnkszgbkgzvraugmrfauopgvglvfug.tgmra
qkzca;g.sbgbmugvibrklagkpgnrzbsugvzugbkkglk.ougrlgbmufauonuagbkgauucgvlt
kbmuzgzuqvz gbmvlgpzkfgbmurzgkqlgnvosu,gvl guawuirvootgbkgauucgrbgrlgbmu
nvlrbtgkpgmsfvlgys xfulbaj

Rpgbmragpvoaugkwrlrkl,glunuzbmuouaa,g.ugkpgasimgsaugbkgbmugws.origvagbk
cuuwgfulgrlgbmurzg sbt;grpgbmugwukwougvzugbmuzu.tgabrzzu gswgbkgnrzbsu;
rpgwzrliuagvzugbksimu gbkgauugbmugqkzo g.ouaagbmugfufkztgkpgBzvyvl,gvl 
v.kfrlvbugbmvbgkpgLuzk;grpgrbgfknuagbmufgbkgauugbmuglvfugkpgbmvbgxzuvb
.uvab,gkliugakgbuzzr.ougvl gpuvzu ,gakgpzuuotgiszau gvl gzunrou g.tgunuzt
aimkko.kt,goubgrbg.tgvoogfuvlagrlizuvau,gvl g.ugvagfsimgvagwkaar.ou
lszau gswgvl gimuzramu gvfklxabgsa;gvl gWovbk,g.ul rlxgmragqmkou
ul uvnkszgbkgfvcugmragirbrdulagnrzbsksa,gvoakgv nrauagbmufglkbgbkg uawrau
bmugxkk gzuwsbugvl guabuufgkpgbmugwukwou;gvl gavtagrbgpvooagksb,g.tgv
iuzbvrlg rnrlugrlawrzvbrkl,gbmvbgunulgbmugqricu gbmufauonuagkpb-brfua,gva
quoog.tgqkz gvagkwrlrkl,givlgzrxmbotg rabrlxsramgbmugnrzbsksagpzkfgbmu
qricu jggBmragwuzaklgvl gmragbsbkzgvzug.kbmgfvznuooksagvl g.ko 
vzbrpriuzagunuztqmuzugbkgv  g rnrlugkwuzvbrklagvl gzunuovbrklagqmuzu
msfvlgpkziugragqvlbrlx:

gggggggggg“Sbgbzvxrirgwkubvugiklpsxrslbgv g usf,
ggggggggggisfguhworivzugvzxsfulbrguhrbsfglklgwkaaslb:”

ggggg[“Vagbzvxrigwkubagpotgbkgakfugxk gqmulgbmutgivllkbguhwovrl
gggggbmugraasugkpgbmurzgvzxsfulbj”--Iriuzk,g ugLvbjg ukzj,grjg20j]

vl gwuzv nulbszu,gpkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgqvagbmvbgBrfkl,gzvrorlxgvbgmrf,
ivoou gmrfgbmugxzuvbgpkzxuzgkpgfrzviouajggAuurlxgbmvbgful,g.tgbmurz
rlaspprirulit,givllkbgwvtgbmufauonuagquoogulksxmgqrbmgiszzulbgfklut,goub
bmugikslbuzpurbg.ugaswuzv  u jgg‘Bragvgqvtgbmvbgmvag.uulgwzvibrau g.tgvoo
bmugouxraovbkza:gvl gbmuzugraglkgxknuzlfulbgbmvbgmvaglkbgakfugfrhbszu
urbmuzgkpgiuzufklrvognvlrbtgkzgkpgpvoaugkwrlrkl,gbmvbgauznuagpkzgvgisz.
bkgcuuwgbmugwukwougrlgbmurzg sbtjgg‘Bragpkzgbmragbmvbgfkabgkpgbmufgmvnu
bmurzgkzrxrlvoagvl g.uxrllrlxagpv.soksa,gvl gulzrimu gqrbmgaswuzlvbszvo
ftabuzrua;g‘bragbmragbmvbgmvagxrnulgizu rbgbkg.vabvz gzuorxrkla,gvl 
ivsau gbmufgbkg.ugikslbulvliu g.tgfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlx;gvl gpkzgbmra,
bmvbgLsfvgvl gAuzbkzrsa,gbkgwkaauaagbmurzgfulgqrbmgvg.ubbuzgkwrlrklgkp
bmuf,gpu gbmufgqrbmgbmragpkwwuzt;gklu,gbmvbgbmugltfwmgUxuzrv,gbmugkbmuz
bmvbgmragqmrbugmrl ,g.zksxmbgbmufgvoogbmurzgikslauoagpzkfgbmugxk aj
Vl gbmugvsbmkzrbtgbmvbgLsfvgxvnugbkgmragovqa,gsl uzgbmugbrbougkpgbmu
wvbzklvxugkpgbmragxk  uaa,gDkzkvabuz,gouxraovbkzgkpgbmug.vibzrvlagvl 
Wuzarvla,gxvnugbkgmragsl uzgbmuglvfugkpgbmugXk gKzkfvdra:gBzrafuxrabsa,
ouxraovbkzgkpgbmugUxtwbrvla,gsl uzgbmvbgkpgFuziszt;gHvfkohra,gouxraovbkz
kpgbmugAitbmrvla,gsl uzgbmvbgkpgNuabv;gImvzkl va,gouxraovbkzgkpgbmu
Imvoir rvla,gsl uzgbmvbgkpgAvbszl;gFrlka,gouxraovbkzgkpgbmugIvl rkba,
sl uzgbmvbgkpgYswrbuz;gOtiszxsa,gouxraovbkzgkpgbmugOviu vufklrvla,gsl uz
bmvbgkpgVwkook;gvl g zvikgvl gAkokl,gouxraovbkzagkpgbmugVbmulrvla,gsl uz
bmvbgkpgFrluznvjggVl gunuztgxknuzlfulbgmvagvgxk gvbgbmugmuv gkpgrb;
bmugkbmuzagpvoauot,gbmvbgbzsot,gqmrimgFkauagaubgknuzgbmugYuqagvbgbmurz
 uwvzbszugksbgkpgUxtwbjggBmugzuorxrklgkpgbmug.u ksrla,gvagbmugArzug u
Ykrlnroougzuwkzba,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gulykrlu gvg.uorupgbmvbgbmugakso
kpgmrfgvfklxabgbmufgqmkg ru gpkzgmragwzrliu,gqulbgrlbkgvlkbmuzg.k tgfkzu
mvwwt,gfkzug.uvsbrpso,gvl gfkzugzk.sabgbmvlgbmugpkzfuz;g.tgqmrimgfuvla
bmutgfsimgfkzugqroorlxotgnulbszu gbmurzgornua:

ggggggggg“Rlgpuzzsfgfulagwzklvgnrzra,gvlrfvuesugivwviua
ggggggggggFkzbra,gubgrxlvnsfguabgzu rbszvugwvziuzugnrbvuj”

ggggg[“Ful’agfrl agvzugwzklugbkgbmugaqkz ,gvl gbmurzgaksoagv.ougbkg.uvz
ggggg uvbm;gvl grbgrag.vaugbkgawvzugvgorpugbmvbgqroog.ugzuluqu j”
gggggg--Osivl,grjg461j]

Bmragragvgnuztgikfpkzbv.oug.uorup,gmkqunuzguzzkluksajggUnuztglvbrklgmva
fvltgasimguhvfwouagkpgrbagkql;g.sbgbmragas.yuibgqkso gzuesrzugvgbzuvbrau
.tgrbauopj

Bkgv  gklugqkz gfkzugbkgftgpkzfuzg raikszau,gRgqkso gv nraugbmugov ruaglk
oklxuzgbkgivoogbmvbgmklkszgqmrimgrag.sbgbmurzg sbt:

gggggggggg“Sbgulrfgiklasubs kgokesrbsz,gr gakosfg rirbsz
ggggggggggmkluabsf,gesk guabgwkwsovzrgpvfvgxokzrkasf;”

ggggg[“Vagisabkfgwsbagrb,gbmvbgklotgragivoou gmkluabgqmrimgra
gggggxokzrksag.tgbmugws.orignkriuj”--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.sa,grrjg15j]

bmurzg sbtgragbmugfvzc,gbmurzgmklkszg.sbgbmugksbqvz gzrl jggLurbmuzgqkso 
Rgv nraugbmufgbkgxrnugbmraguhisaugpkzgwvtfulbgkpgbmurzg ulrvo:gpkzgR
wzuaswwkaugbmvbgbmurzgrlbulbrkla,gbmurzg uarzu,gvl gqroo,gqmrimgvzu
bmrlxagqmuzurlgbmurzgmklkszgraglkbgvbgvoogikliuzlu ,gpkzvafsimgvaglkbmrlx
bmuzukpgvwwuvzagqrbmksb,gvzugfsimg.ubbuzgzuxsovbu gbmvlgbmuguppuiba:

gggggggggg“Eshgesrvglklgoriuvb,glklgpvirb,groovgpvirb:”

ggggg[“Amugqmkgklotgzupsaua,g.uivsaug‘bragpkz.r  ul,giklaulbaj”
gggggg--Knr ,gVfkzj,grrjg4,g4j]

Bmugkppuliu,g.kbmgbkqvz agXk gvl grlgbmugiklairuliu,gqkso g.ugvagxzuvbgbk
 uarzugvagbkg kgrb;gvl ,g.uar ua,gbmutgvzugvibrklagakgwzrnvbugvl gauizub
kpgbmufauonua,gvagqkso g.uguvarotgulksxmgcuwbgpzkfgbmugclkqou xugkp
kbmuza,gqmuzurlgbmugmklkszgiklaraba,grpgbmutgmv glkbgvlkbmuzgzuawuibgbk
bmurzg sbt,gvl gbmugvppuibrklgbmutg.uvzgbkgimvabrbt,gpkzgrbauopjggUnuzt
qkfvlgkpgmklkszgqroogfsimgzvbmuzgimkkaugbkgokaugmuzgmklkszgbmvlgbkgmszb
muzgiklairuliuj




IMVWBUZgHNRR

KPgWZUASFWBRKL

Bmuzugragvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgxokzt,gqmrimgragbmugmvnrlxgbkkgxkk gvlgkwrlrkl
kpgkszgkqlgqkzbmjgg‘Bragvlgrliklar uzvbugvppuibrklgqrbmgqmrimgqugpovbbuz
kszauonua,gvl gbmvbgzuwzuaulbagsagbkgkszauonuagkbmuzgbmvlgqugbzsotgvzu:
orcugbmugwvaarklgkpgoknu,gbmvbgoul ag.uvsbruagvl gxzviuagbkgbmugk.yuib,
vl gfvcuagbmkaugqmkgvzugivsxmbg.tgrb,gqrbmgvg uwzvnu gvl gikzzswb
ys xfulb,giklar uzgbmugbmrlxgqmrimgbmutgoknugkbmuzgvl gfkzugwuzpuibgbmvl
rbgraj

Rgqkso glkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gpkzgpuvzgkpgpvrorlxgklgbmragar u,gbmvbgvgfvl
amkso glkbgclkqgmrfauopgvzrxmb,gkzgbmrlcgmrfauopgouaagbmvlgmugra;gbmu
ys xfulbgksxmbgrlgvoogbmrlxagbkgfvrlbvrlgrbagzrxmba;g‘bragvoogbmugzuvakl
rlgbmugqkzo gmugamkso g raiuzlgrlgmrfauop,gvagquoogvagrlgkbmuza,gqmvb
bzsbmgaubag.upkzugmrf;grpgrbg.ugIvuavz,goubgmrfg.ko otgbmrlcgmrfauopgbmu
xzuvbuabgivwbvrlgrlgbmugqkzo jggQugvzuglkbmrlxg.sbgiuzufklt:giuzufklt
ivzzruagsagvqvt,gvl gqugouvnugbmugas.abvliugkpgbmrlxa:gqugmko g.tgbmu
.zvlimua,gvl gesrbgbmugbzslcgvl gbmug.k t;gqugmvnugbvsxmbgbmugov ruagbk
.osamgqmulgbmutgmuvzgbmvbg.sbglvfu gqmrimgbmutgvzuglkbgvbgvoogvpzvr gbk
 k:gqug vzuglkbgivoogkszgfuf.uzag.tgbmurzgzrxmbglvfua,gtubgvzuglkbgvpzvr 
bkgufwoktgbmufgrlgvoogakzbagkpg u.vsimuzt:giuzufkltgpkz.r agsagbkguhwzuaa
.tgqkz agbmrlxagbmvbgvzugovqpsogvl glvbszvo,gvl gqugk.utgrb:gzuvakl
pkz.r agsagbkg kgbmrlxagslovqpsogvl groo,gvl glk.k tgk.utagrbjggRgprl 
ftauopgmuzugpubbuzu g.tgbmugovqagkpgiuzufklt;gpkzgrbglurbmuzgwuzfrbagv
fvlgbkgawuvcgquoogkpgmrfauop,glkzgroo:gqugqroogouvnugmuzgbmuzugpkzgbmra
brfuj

Bmutgqmkfgpkzbslug(ivoogrbgxkk gkzgroo)gmvagfv ugbk,gwvaagbmurzgornuagrl
akfugufrlulbg uxzuu,gfvtg.tgbmurzgws.origvibrklagfvlrpuabgqmvbgbmutgvzu;
.sbgbmutgqmkfgamugmvagklotgufwoktu grlgbmugizkq ,gvl gkpgqmkfglk.k tgqroo
avtgvgqkz gslouaagbmutgawuvcgbmufauonua,gvzugbkg.uguhisau grpgbmutgbvcu
bmug.ko luaagbkgawuvcgkpgbmufauonuagbkgasimgvagvzugrlbuzuabu gbkgclkq
bmuf;g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgOsirorsa:

gggggggggggggg“Roougnuosbgpr ragvzivlvgak vor.sagkorf
gggggggggggggggIzu u.vbgor.zra,gluesugargfvougiuaauzvb,gsaesvf
ggggggggggggggg uiszzulagvork,gluesugarg.ulu:geskgprb,gsbgkflra,
gggggggggggggggNkbrnvgwvbuvbgnuoszrg uaizrwbvgbv.uoov
gggggggggggggggNrbvgaulra;”

ggggg[“Mugpkzfuzotgiklpr u gmragauizubgbmksxmbagbkgmrag.kkca,gvagbkgbzru 
gggggpzrul a,gvl gpkzgxkk gvl gunro,gzuakzbu glkbguoauqmuzu:gmuliugrb
gggggivfugbkgwvaa,gbmvbgbmugko gfvl’agorpugragbmuzugvoogauulgvagklgv
gggggnkbrnugbv.oubj”--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grrjgR,g30j]

mugvoqvtagikffrbbu gbkgwvwuzgmragvibrklagvl gbmksxmba,gvl gbmuzu
wkzbzvtu gmrfauopgasimgvagmugpksl gmrfauopgbkg.u:

ggggg“Luigr gZsbrorkgubgAivszkgirbzvgpr uf;gvsbgk.bzuibvbrklrgpsrbj”

ggggg[“Lkzgqvagbmragiklar uzu gvg.zuvimgkpgxkk gpvrbmgkzgvg rawvzvxufulb
gggggbkgZsbrorsagkzgAivszsaj”--Bvirbsa,gVxzrikov,gijgRj]

Rgzufuf.uz,gbmul,gbmvbgpzkfgftgrlpvlitgbmuzugqvagk.auznu grlgfugRgclkq
lkbgqmvbgcrl gkpgivzzrvxugvl g.umvnrksz,gbmvbgauufu gbkgzuoramgkpgwzr u
vl gvzzkxvliujggRgqroogavtgbmra,g.tgbmugqvt,gbmvbgrbgraglkbgslzuvaklv.ou
bkgaswwkaugbmvbgqugmvnugesvorbruagvl grliorlvbrklagakgfsimgkszgkql,gvl 
akgrlikzwkzvbugrlgsa,gbmvbgqugmvnuglkbgbmugfuvlagbkgpuuogvl gzuikxlrau
bmuf:gvl gkpgasimglvbszvogrliorlvbrklagbmug.k tgqroogzubvrlgvgiuzbvrl
.ulb,gqrbmksbgkszgclkqou xugkzgiklaulbjggRbgqvagvlgvppuibvbrkl
iklpkzfv.ougqrbmgmrag.uvsbtgbmvbgfv ugVouhvl uzgivzztgmragmuv gklgklu
ar u,gvl givsau gVoir.rv uagbkgoraw;gYsorsagIvuavzgaizvbimu gmragmuv 
qrbmgklugprlxuz,ggqmrimgragbmugpvamrklgkpgvgfvlgpsoogkpgbzks.ouakfu
bmksxmba;gvl gIriuzk,gvagRgzufuf.uz,gqvagqklbgbkgwsicuzgswgmraglkau,gv
arxlgkpgvgfvlgxrnulgbkgaikpprlx;gasimgfkbrklagvagbmuaugfvtgrfwuziuwbr.ot
mvwwulgrlgsajggBmuzugvzugkbmuzgvzbrprirvogkluagqmrimgRgfu  ouglkbgqrbm,
vagavosbvbrklagvl giklxuua,g.tgqmrimgfulgviesrzu,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb
slysabot,gbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpg.urlxgmsf.ougvl gikszbuksa:gklugfvtg.ugmsf.ou
ksbgkpgwzr ujggRgvfgwzk rxvogulksxmgkpgftgmvb,guawuirvootgrlgasffuz,gvl 
lunuzgvfgakgavosbu g.sbgbmvbgRgwvtgrbgvxvrlgpzkfgwuzaklagkpgqmvbgesvorbt
akunuz,gslouaagbmutg.ugrlgftgkqlgauznriujggRgamkso gfvcugrbgftgzuesuabgbk
akfugwzrliuagqmkfgRgclkq,gbmvbgbmutgqkso g.ugfkzugawvzrlxgkpgbmvb
iuzufklt,gvl g.uabkqgbmvbgikszbuatgqmuzugrbgragfkzug su;gpkzg.urlxgak
rl raizuubotgvl grl rppuzulbotgiklpuzzu gklgvoo,grbgragbmzkqlgvqvtgbkglk
wszwkau;grpgrbg.ugqrbmksbgzuawuibgkpgwuzakla,grbgokauagrbaguppuibj
Vfklxabgrzzuxsovzg uwkzbfulb,goubgsaglkbgpkzxubgbmvbgmvsxmbtgklugkpgbmu
UfwuzkzgIklabvlbrsa,gqmkgvoqvtagrlgws.origmuo gmragmuv gswzrxmbgvl 
abrpp,gqrbmksbg.ul rlxgkzgbszlrlxgklgurbmuzgar u,glkbgakgfsimgvagbkgokkc
swklgbmkaugqmkgavosbu gmrfgklgklugar u,gwovlbrlxgmrag.k tgrlgvgzrxr 
rffknv.ougwkabszu,gqrbmksbgasppuzrlxgrbgbkgtruo gbkgbmugfkbrklgkpgmra
ikvim,glkbg vzrlxgakgfsimgvagbkgawrb,g.okqgmraglkau,gkzgqrwugmragpviu
.upkzugwukwoujggRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgbmugxuabszuagbmvbgquzugk.auznu grlgfu
quzugkpgbmragprzabgesvorbt,gvl gqmubmuzgRgmv gzuvootgvltgkiisobgwzkluluaa
bkgbmragnriu,gvagrbgfrxmbgquoog.u;gvl gRgivllkbg.ugzuawklar.ougpkzgbmu
fkbrklagkpgbmug.k t;g.sbgvagbkgbmugfkbrklagkpgbmugakso,gRgfsabgmuzu
iklpuaagqmvbgRgbmrlcgkpgbmugfvbbuzj

Bmragxokztgiklarabagkpgbqkgwvzba;gbmugklugrlgaubbrlxgbkkgxzuvbgvgnvosu
swklgkszauonua,gvl gbmugkbmuzgrlgaubbrlxgbkkgorbbougvgnvosugswklgkbmuzaj
Vagbkgbmugklu,gfubmrlcagbmuaugiklar uzvbrklagksxmb,grlgbmugprzabgwoviu,
bkg.ugkpgakfugpkziu:gRgpuuogftauopgrfwkzbslu g.tgvlguzzkzgkpgbmugakso
bmvbg rawouvauagfu,g.kbmgvagrbgragslysab,gvl gabroogfkzugvagrbgra
bzks.ouakfu;gRgvbbufwbgbkgikzzuibgrb,g.sbgRgivllkbgzkkbgrbgksb;gvl gbmra
ra,gbmvbgRgouaaulgbmugysabgnvosugkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgwkaauaa,gvl gknuznvosu
bmrlxa,g.uivsaugbmutgvzugpkzurxl,gv.aulb,gvl glklugkpgfrlu;gbmragmsfksz
awzuv agnuztgpvzjggVagbmugwzuzkxvbrnugkpgbmugvsbmkzrbtgfvcuagmsa.vl a
okkcgswklgbmurzgkqlgqrnuagqrbmgvgnrirksag ra vrl,gvl gfvltgpvbmuzagbmurz
imro zul;gakgR,g.ubqrhbgbqkguesvogfuzrba,gamkso gvoqvtag.ugaqvtu gvxvrlab
ftgkql;glkbgakgfsimgbmvbgbmugyuvoksatgkpgftgv nvliufulbgvl g.ubbuzrlx
bzks.ouagftgys xfulb,gvl gmrl uzagfugpzkfgavbraptrlxgftauop,gvagbmvbgkp
rbauopgwkaauaarklg.uxubagvgiklbufwbgkpgqmvbgrbgmko agvl gzsouajggPkzurxl
xknuzlfulba,gfvlluza,gvl govlxsvxuagrlarlsvbugbmufauonuagrlbkgftguabuuf;
vl gRgvfgaular.ougbmvbgOvbrlgvooszuagfug.tgbmugpvnkszgkpgrbag rxlrbtgbk
nvosugrbgv.knugrbag su,gvagrbg kuagqrbmgimro zul,gvl gbmugikffklgakzbgkp
wukwou:gbmug kfuabrigxknuzlfulb,gmksau,gmkzau,gkpgftglurxm.ksz,gbmksxmglk
.ubbuzgbmvlgftgkql,gRgwzrdugv.knugftgkql,g.uivsaugbmutgvzuglkbgfrluj
.uar uagbmvbgRgvfgnuztgrxlkzvlbgrlgftgkqlgvppvrza,gRgvfgabzsicg.tgbmu
vaaszvliugbmvbgunuztgklugmvagkpgmrfauop:gqmuzuvagbmuzugragaivziuot
vltbmrlxgbmvbgRgvfgaszugRgclkq,gkzgbmvbgRg vzug.ugzuawklar.ougbkgftauop
bmvbgRgivlg k:gRgmvnuglkbgftgfuvlagkpg krlxgvltbmrlxgrlgikl rbrklgvl 
zuv t,gvl gvfgklotgrlabzsibu gbmuzurlgvpbuzgbmuguppuib;gvag ks.bpsogkpgft
kqlgpkziugvagRgvfgkpgvlkbmuz’ajggQmuliugrbgikfuagbkgwvaagbmvbgrpgRgmvwwul
bkg kgvltbmrlxgikfful v.ou,gRgvbbzr.sbugrbgfkzugbkgftgpkzbslugbmvl
rl sabzt,gpkzvafsimgvagRg uarxlgunuztbmrlxg.tgimvliugvl grlgpuvzjggRgmvnu
bmra,gvoak,grlgxuluzvo,gbmvbgkpgvoogbmugkwrlrklagvlbresrbtgmvagmuo gkp
fulgrlgxzkaa,gRgfkabgqroorlxotguf.zviugvl gv muzugbkgbmkaugbmvbgfkab
iklbuflgvl gsl uznvosugsa,gvl gfkabgwsamgsagbkglvsxmb;gfubmrlca,
wmrokakwmtgmvaglunuzgakgpvrzgvgxvfugbkgwovtgvagqmulgrbgpvooagswklgksz
nvlrbtgvl gwzuasfwbrkl;gqmulgrbgfkabgovtagkwulgkszgrzzuakosbrkl,
quvcluaa,gvl grxlkzvliujggRgokkcgswklgbmugbkkgxkk gkwrlrklgbmvbgfvlgmva
kpgmrfauopgbkg.ugbmuglszarlxgfkbmuzgkpgvoogbmugfkabgpvoaugkwrlrkla,g.kbm
ws.origvl gwzrnvbujggBmkaugwukwougqmkgzr ugvabzr ugswklgbmuguwritiougkp
Fuziszt,gqmkgauugakgpvzgrlbkgbmugmuvnula,gvzugqkzaugbkgfugbmvlgv
bkkbm- zvquzgbmvbgikfuagbkg zvqgftgbuubm;gpkzgrlgftgabs t,gbmugas.yuibgkp
qmrimgragfvl,gprl rlxgakgxzuvbgvgnvzrubtgkpgys xfulba,gakgwzkpksl gv
ov.tzrlbmgkpg rpprisobrua,gklugswklgvlkbmuz,gakgxzuvbg rnuzarbtgvl 
sliuzbvrlbt,gunulgrlgbmugaimkkogkpgqra kfgrbauop,gtksgfvtgys xu,gauurlx
bmuaugwukwougikso glkbgzuakonugswklgbmugclkqou xugkpgbmufauonuagvl gbmurz
kqlgikl rbrkl,gqmrimgragiklbrlsvootg.upkzugbmurzgutua,gvl gqrbmrlgbmuf,
auurlxgbmutg kglkbgclkqgmkqgbmvbgfknuagqmrimgbmutgbmufauonuagfknu,glkz
mkqgbkgxrnugsagvg uaizrwbrklgkpgbmugawzrlxagbmutgbmufauonuagxknuzlgvl 
fvcugsaugkp,gmkqgivlgRg.uorunugbmufgv.ksbgbmugu..rlxgvl gpokqrlxgkpgbmu
Lrou?ggBmugiszrkarbtgkpgclkqrlxgbmrlxagmvag.uulgxrnulgbkgfvlgpkzgv
aikszxu,gavtagbmugMkotgAizrwbszuj

.sbgbkgzubszlgbkgqmvbgikliuzlagftauop;gRgbmrlcgrbgqkso g.ugnuztg rpprisob
pkzgvltgkbmuzgfvlgbkgmvnugvgfuvluzgkwrlrklgkpgmrfauop;glvt,gpkzgvltgkbmuz
bkgmvnugvgfuvluzgkwrlrklgkpgfugbmvlgkpgftauop:gRgokkcgswklgftauopgvagklu
kpgbmugikffklgakzb,gavnrlxgrlgbmra,gbmvbgRgmvnuglkg.ubbuzgvlgkwrlrklgkp
ftauop;gxsrobtgkpgbmugfuvluabgvl gfkabgwkwsovzg upuiba,g.sbglkbg rakqlrlx
kzguhisarlxgbmuf;gvl gRg kglkbgnvosugftauopgswklgvltgkbmuzgviikslbgbmvl
.uivsaugRgclkqgftgkqlgnvosujggRpgbmuzug.ugvltgnvlrbtgrlgbmugivau,g‘bra
aswuzprirvootgrlpsau grlbkgfug.tgbmugbzuvimuztgkpgftgikfwouhrkl,gvl gmva
lkg.k tgbmvbgftgys xfulbgivlg raiuzl:gRgvfgawzrlcou ,g.sbglkbg tu jggPkz
rlgbzsbm,gvagbkgbmuguppuibagkpgbmugfrl ,gbmuzugraglkgwvzbgkpgfu,g.ugrb
qmvbgrbgqroo,gqrbmgqmrimgRgvfgavbrapru ;gvl gbmugvwwzk.vbrklgkpgkbmuza
fvcuagfuglkbgbmrlcgbmug.ubbuzgkpgftauopjggFtgys xfulbgragbul uzgvl glriu,
uawuirvootgrlgbmrlxagbmvbgikliuzlgftauopj

Rgunuzgzuws rvbugftauop,gvl gpuuogftauopgpokvbgvl gqvnuzg.tgzuvaklgkpgft
quvcluaajggRgmvnuglkbmrlxgkpgftgkqlgbmvbgavbrapruagftgys xfulbjggFtgarxmb
ragiouvzgvl gzuxsovzgulksxm,g.sb,gvbgqkzcrlx,grbgragvwbgbkg vddou;gvagR
fkabgfvlrpuabotgprl grlgwkubzt:gRgoknugrbgrlprlrbuot,gvl gvfgv.ougbkgxrnu
vgbkouzv.ougys xfulbgkpgkbmuzgful’agqkzca;g.sb,grlgxkk guvzluab,gqmulgR
vwwotgftauopgbkgrb,gRgwovtgbmugimro ,gvl gvfglkbgv.ougbkgul szugftauopj
Vgfvlgfvtgwovtgbmugpkkogrlgunuztbmrlxguoau,g.sbglkbgrlgwkubzt;

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Fu rkizr.saguaaugwkubra
ggggggggggLklg rr,glklgmkfrlua,glklgikliuaauzugikosflvuj”

ggggg[“Lurbmuzgful,glkzgxk a,glkzgbmugwroovzag(klgqmrimgbmugwkuba
gggggkppuzu gbmurzgqzrbrlxa)gwuzfrbgfu rkizrbtgrlgwkubaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,g ugVzbugWkubj,g372j]

Rgqkso gbkgXk gbmragaulbuliugqvagqzrbbulgknuzgbmug kkzagkpgvoogksz
wzrlbuza,gbkgpkz.r gbmugulbzvliugkpgakgfvltgzmtfuabuza!

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nuzsf
ggggggggggggggggggggLrmrogauiszrsaguabgfvokgwkubvuj”

ggggg[“Bmugbzsbmgra,gbmvbglkbmrlxgragfkzugiklpr ulbgbmvlgvg.v gwkubj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,ghrrjg63,g13j]

Qmtgmvnuglkbgqugasimgwukwou?--[Vagbmkaugv.ksbgbkg.ugfulbrklu j]--
 rkltarsagbmugpvbmuzgnvosu gmrfauopgswklglkbmrlxgakgfsimgvagmragwkubzt;
vbgbmugKotfwrigxvfua,gqrbmgimvzrkbagaszwvaarlxgvoogbmugkbmuzagrl
fvxlrpriuliu,gmugaulbgvoakgwkubagvl gfsarirvlagbkgwzuaulbgmragnuzaua,
qrbmgbulbgvl gwvnrorklagzktvootgxrobgvl gmslxgqrbmgbvwuabztjggQmulgmra
nuzauagivfugbkg.ugzuirbu ,gbmuguhiuoouliugkpgbmug uornuztgvbgprzab
vbbzvibu gbmugvbbulbrklgkpgbmugwukwou;g.sbgqmulgbmutgvpbuzqvz agivfugbk
wkraugbmugfuvlluaagkpgbmugikfwkarbrkl,gbmutgprzabgulbuzu grlbkg ra vrl,
vl giklbrlsrlxgbkglubbougbmurzgys xfulba,gwzuaulbotgwzkiuu u gbkgpszt,
vl gzvlgbkgwsoog kqlgvl gbuvzgbkgwruiuagvoogmragwvnrorkla:gvl ,gbmvbgmra
imvzrkbaglurbmuzgwuzpkzfu gvltbmrlxgbkgwszwkaugrlgbmugzviu,gvl gbmvbgbmu
amrwgqmrimg.zksxmbg.vicgmragwukwougpvrou gkpgfvcrlxgArirot,gvl gqvag.t
bmugbufwuabg zrnulgvl gqzuicu gswklgbmugikvabgkpgBvzulbsf,gbmutgiuzbvrlot
.uorunu gqvagbmzksxmgbmugvlxuzgkpgbmugxk a,grliulau ,gvagbmutgbmufauonua
quzu,gvxvrlabgbmugwvobztgWkuf;gvl gunulgbmugfvzrluzagqmkguaivwu gpzkfgbmu
qzuicgauikl u gbmragkwrlrklgkpgbmugwukwou:gbkgqmrimgvoakgbmugkzviougbmvb
pkzubko gmrag uvbmgauufu gbkgas.aizr.u;gqmrimgqva,g“bmvbg rkltarsagamkso 
.ugluvzgmragul ,gqmulgmugamkso gmvnugknuzikfugbmkaugqmkgquzug.ubbuzgbmvl
mrfauop,”gqmrimgmugrlbuzwzubu gkpgbmugIvzbmvxrlrvla,gqmkgaszwvaau gmrfgrl
wkquz;gvl gmvnrlxgqvzgqrbmgbmuf,gkpbulg uiorlu gbmugnribkzt,glkbgbkgrlisz
bmugaulaugkpgbmragwzu ribrkl;g.sbgmugsl uzabkk grbgroo;gpkzgbmugxk 
rl rivbu gbmugbrfugkpgbmugv nvlbvxu,gbmvbg.tgpvnkszgvl grlysabriugmu
k.bvrlu gvbgVbmulagknuzgbmugbzvxrigwkuba,g.ubbuzgbmvlgmrfauop,gmvnrlx
ivsau gmragkqlgwovtgivoou gbmugOulurvlagbkg.ugvibu grlgufsovbrkl;
wzuaulbotgvpbuzgqmrimgnribkztgmug ru ,gvl gwvzbotgkpgbmuguhiuaarnugyktgmu
ikliurnu gvbgbmugasiiuaaj

ggggg[ rk kzsagArisosa,ghnjg7j--Bmugwovt,gmkqunuz,gqvagivoou gbmu
ggggg“ZvlakfgkpgMuibkzj”ggRbgqvagbmugxvfuagvbgqmrimgrbgqvagvibu gbmvb
gggggquzugivoou gOulurvl;gbmutgquzugklugkpgbmugpkszg rkltarvigpuabrnvoaj]

QmvbgRgprl gbkouzv.ougkpgfrlu,graglkbgakgzuvootgvl grlgrbauop,g.sbgrl
ikfwvzraklgkpgkbmuzgqkzaugbmrlxa,gbmvbgRgauugquoogulksxmgzuiurnu jggR
ulntgbmugmvwwrluaagkpgbmkaugqmkgivlgwouvaugvl gmsxgbmufauonuagrlgqmvb
bmutg k;gpkzg‘bragvlguvatgbmrlxgbkg.ugakgwouvau ,g.uivsaugvgfvlguhbzviba
bmvbgwouvaszugpzkfgmrfauop,guawuirvootgrpgmug.ugiklabvlbgrlgmra
auop-ikliurbjggRgclkqgvgwkub,gvxvrlabgqmkfgbmugrlbuoorxulbgvl gbmu
rxlkzvlb,gv.zkv gvl gvbgmkfu,g.kbmgmuvnulgvl guvzbmguhiovrfgbmvbgmugmva
.sbgnuztgorbbouglkbrklgkpgrb;gvl gtub,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gmugmvaglunuzgvgqmrb
bmugqkzaugkwrlrklgkpgmrfauop;g.sbgragvoqvtagpvoorlxgswklgakfugluqgwruiu,
voqvtagiklbzrnrlxgakfugluqgrlnulbrkl,gvl gabroogwuzarabagrlgmragkwrlrkl,
.tgakgfsimgbmugfkzugk.abrlvbuot,gvagrbgklotgikliuzlagmrfgbkgfvrlbvrlgrbj

Ftgqkzcagvzugakgpvzgpzkfgwouvarlxgfu,gbmvbgvagkpbulgvagRgzunruqgbmuf,
bmutg raxsabgfu:

ggggggggg“Isfgzuouxk,gaizrwaraaugws ub;gesrvgwoszrfvgiuzlk,
ggggggggggFugeskesu,gesrgpuir,gys riu,g rxlvgorlrj”

ggggg[“QmulgRgzuwuzsau,gRg.osamgvbgqmvbgRgmvnugqzrbbul;gRgunuzgauugklu
gggggwvaavxugvpbuzgvlkbmuzgbmvbgR,gbmugvsbmkz,g.urlxgbmugys xu,giklar uz
gggggamkso g.uguzvau j”--Knr ,g ugWklbk,grjg5,g15j]

Rgmvnugvoqvtagvlgr uvgrlgftgakso,gvl gvgakzbgkpg rabsz.u grfvxugqmrim
wzuaulbagfugvagrlgvg zuvfgqrbmgvg.ubbuzgpkzfgbmvlgbmvbgRgmvnugfv ugsau
kp;g.sbgRgivllkbgivbimgrbglkzgprbgrbgbkgftgwszwkau;gvl gunulgbmvbgr uvgra
.sbgkpgbmugfuvluzgakzbjggMuliugRgiklios ugbmvbgbmugwzk sibrklagkpgbmkau
xzuvbgvl gzrimgaksoagkpgpkzfuzgbrfuagvzugnuztgfsimg.utkl gbmugsbfkab
abzubimgkpgftgrfvxrlvbrklgkzgftgqram;gbmurzgqzrbrlxag kglkbgklotgavbrapt
vl gproogfu,g.sbgbmutgvabksl gfu,gvl gzvnramgfugqrbmgv frzvbrkl;gRgys xu
kpgbmurzg.uvsbt;gRgauugrb,grpglkbgbkgbmugsbfkab,gtubgakgpvzgvbgouvabgva
‘bragwkaar.ougpkzgfugbkgvawrzujggQmvbunuzgRgsl uzbvcu,gRgkqugvgavizrpriu
bkgbmugXzviua,gvagWosbvzimgavtagkpgakfugklu,gbkgiklirorvbugbmurzgpvnksz:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Argesr gulrfgwoviub,
ggggggggggggggggggggArgesr g soiugmkzlrlsfgaular.sagrlposrb,
gggggggggggggggggggg u.ulbszgouwr ragkflrvgXzvbrraj”

ggggg[“RpgvltbmrlxgwouvaugbmvbgRgqzrbu,grpgrbgrlpsaug uorxmbgrlbkgful’a
gggggfrl a,gvoograg sugbkgbmugimvzfrlxgXzviuaj”ggBmugnuzauagvzugwzk.v.ot
ggggg.tgakfugfk uzlgwkubj]

Bmutgv.vl klgfugbmzksxmksb;gvoogRgqzrbugragzs u;gwkoramgvl g.uvsbtgvzu
qvlbrlx:gRgivllkbgaubgbmrlxagkppgbkgvltgv nvlbvxu;gftgmvl orlxgv  a
lkbmrlxgbkgbmugfvbbuz;gpkzgqmrimgzuvaklgRgfsabgmvnugrbgpkzir.ou,gnuzt
psoo,gvl gbmvbgmvagosabzugkpgrbagkqljggRpgRgwrbimgswklgas.yuibagbmvbgvzu
wkwsovzgvl gxvt,g‘bragbkgpkookqgftgkqlgrliorlvbrkl,gqmkg kglkbgvppuibgv
xzvnugvl giuzufklrksagqra kf,gvagbmugqkzo g kua;gvl gbkgfvcugftauopgfkzu
awzrxmbot,g.sbglkbgftgabtougfkzugqvlbkl,gqmrimgqkso gzvbmuzgmvnugbmuf
xzvnugvl gaunuzu;gvbgouvabgrpgRgfvtgivoogbmvbgvgabtougqmrimgragvlgrlpkzf
vl grzzuxsovzgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx,gvgwkwsovzgyvzxkl,gvgwzkiuu rlxgqrbmksb
 uprlrbrkl,g rnrarkl,gikliosarkl,gwuzwouhu gorcugbmvbgVfvpvlrsagvl 
Zv.rzrsaj--[Iriuzk,gViv j,grjg2j]--Rgivlglurbmuzgwouvauglkzg uorxmb,
lkzgunulgbricougftgzuv uza:gbmug.uabgabkztgrlgbmugqkzo gragawkrou g.tgft
mvl orlx,gvl g.uikfuagpovb;gRgivllkbgawuvcg.sbgrlgzksxmguvzluab,gvl gvf
bkbvootgslwzknr u gkpgbmvbgpvirorbtgqmrimgRgk.auznugrlgfvltgkpgft
viesvrlbvliu,gkpgulbuzbvrlrlxgbmugprzabgikfuzagvl gcuuwrlxgvgqmkou
ikfwvltgrlg.zuvbm,gkzgbvcrlxgswgbmuguvzgkpgvgwzrliugqrbmgvoogakzbagkp
 raikszaugqrbmksbgquvztrlxgbmufauonua:gbmutglunuzgqvlbgfvbbuzg.tgzuvakl
kpgbmugpvisobtgvl gxzviugbmutgmvnugrlgbvcrlxgmko gkpgbmugprzabgbmrlxgbmvb
abvzbagsw,gvl gviikffk vbrlxgrbgbkgbmugmsfkszgvl givwvirbtgkpgbmkaugqrbm
qmkfgbmutgmvnugbkg kjggWzrliuag kglkbgfsimgvppuibgakor g raikszaua,glkzgR
bkgbuoogabkzruajggBmugprzabgvl guvaruabgzuvakla,gqmrimgvzugikffklotgbmu
.uabgbvcul,gRgclkqglkbgmkqgbkgufwokt:gRgvfgvlgroogkzvbkzgbkgbmugikffkl
akzbjggRgvfgvwbgkpgunuztbmrlxgbkgavtgbmuguhbzufuabgbmvbgRgclkqjggIriuzk
ragkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrlgbzuvbrauagkpgwmrokakwmtgbmuguhkz rsfgragbmugmvz uab
wvzb;grpgbmrag.ugbzsu,gRgvfgqraugrlgabricrlxgbkgbmugikliosarkljggVl gtub
qugvzugbkgclkqgmkqgbkgqrl gbmugabzrlxgbkgvooglkbua,gvl gbmugamvzwuabgra
bmvbgqmrimgragbmugfkabgauo kfgbksimu jggBmuzugragvbgouvabgvagfsim
wuzpuibrklgrlguounvbrlxgvlgufwbtgvagrlgaswwkzbrlxgvgqurxmbtgbmrlxjggVgfvl
fsabgakfubrfuagaswuzprirvootgmvl ougbmrlxa,gvl gakfubrfuagwsamgbmufgmkfuj
Rgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgfkabgfulgcuuwgbmufauonuagrlgbmragokquzgpkzfgpzkf
lkbgikliurnrlxgbmrlxagkbmuzqraugbmvlg.tgbmragksbqvz g.vzc;g.sbgRgorcuqrau
clkqgbmvbgbmugxzuvbuabgfvabuza,gvl gHulkwmklgvl gWovbkgvzugkpbulgauulgbk
abkkwgbkgbmragokqgvl gwkwsovzgfvlluzgkpgawuvcrlxgvl gbzuvbrlxgkpgbmrlxa,
.sbgaswwkzbrlxgrbgqrbmgxzviuagqmrimglunuzgpvrogbmufj

Pvzbmuz,gftgovlxsvxugmvaglkbmrlxgrlgrbgbmvbgragpvirougvl gwkoramu ;g‘bra
zksxm,gpzuu,gvl grzzuxsovz,gvl gvagasimgwouvaua,grpglkbgftgys xfulb,gvb
voogunulbagftgrliorlvbrkl,g.sbgRgnuztgquoogwuziurnugbmvbgRgakfubrfuagxrnu
ftauopgbkkgfsimgzurl,gvl gbmvbg.tgul uvnkszrlxgbkgvnkr gvzbgvl 
vppuibvbrklgRgpvoogrlbkgbmugkbmuzgrliklnulruliu:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“.zunraguaaugov.kzk,
gggggggggggggggggggggggggK.aiszsagprkj”

gggggggggg[gUl uvnkszrlxgbkg.ug.zrup,gRg.uikfugk.aiszuj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzj,gVzbjgWkubj,g25j]

Wovbkgavta,gbmvbgbmugoklxgkzgbmugamkzbgvzuglkbgwzkwuzbrua,gbmvbgurbmuz
bvcugvqvtgkzgxrnugnvosugbkgovlxsvxujggAmkso gRgvbbufwbgbkgpkookqgbmu
kbmuzgfkzugfk uzvbu,gslrbu ,gvl gzuxsovzgabtou,gRgamkso glunuzgvbbvrlgbk
rb;gvl gbmksxmgbmugamkzbgzksl gwuzrk agkpgAvoosabg.uabgasrbgqrbmgft
msfksz,gtubgRgprl gIvuavzgfsimgxzvl uzgvl gmvz uzgbkgrfrbvbu;gvl gbmksxm
ftgrliorlvbrklgqkso gzvbmuzgwzkfwbgfugbkgrfrbvbugAuluiv’agqvtgkpgqzrbrlx,
tubgRg kglunuzbmuouaagfkzuguabuufgbmvbgkpgWosbvzimjgg.kbmgrlg krlxgvl 
awuvcrlxgRgarfwotgpkookqgftgkqlglvbszvogqvt;gqmuliu,gwuzv nulbszu,grb
pvooagksbgbmvbgRgvfg.ubbuzgvbgawuvcrlxgbmvlgqzrbrlxjggFkbrklgvl gvibrkl
vlrfvbugqkz a,guawuirvootgrlgbmkaugqmkgovtgv.ksbgbmufg.zracot,gvagRg k,
vl gxzkqgmkbjggBmugikfwkzbfulb,gbmugikslbulvliu;gbmugnkriu,gbmugzk.u,gbmu
woviu,gqroogaubgkppgakfugbmrlxagbmvbgkpgbmufauonuagqkso gvwwuvzglkg.ubbuz
bmvlgwzvbrlxjggFuaavoovgikfwovrlagrlgBvirbsagkpgbmugabzvrbluaagkpgakfu
xvzfulbagrlgmragbrfu,gvl gkpgbmugpvamrklgkpgbmug.ulimuagqmuzugbmugkzvbkza
quzugbkg uiovrf,gbmvbgquzugvg rav nvlbvxugbkgbmurzguokesuliuj

FtgPzulimgbklxsugragikzzswbu ,g.kbmgrlgbmugwzklslirvbrklgvl gkbmuzqrau,
.tgbmug.vz.vzrafgkpgftgikslbztjggRglunuzgavqgvgfvlgqmkgqvagvglvbrnugkp
vltgkpgbmugwzknrliuagklgbmragar ugkpgbmugcrlx kfgqmkgmv glkbgvgbqvlxgkp
mragwoviugkpg.rzbm,gvl gbmvbgqvaglkbgkppularnugbkguvzagbmvbgquzugwszuot
PzulimjggVl gtubgrbgraglkbgbmvbgRgvfgakgwuzpuibgrlgftgWuzrxkz rl:gpkzgR
ivlglkgfkzugawuvcgrbgbmvlgMrxmg sbim,glkzg kgRgfsimgivzujgg‘Bragv
ovlxsvxug(vagbmugzuabgv.ksbgfugklgunuztgar u,gkpgWkrbks,gHvrlbklxu,
Vlxksfksarl,gOrfksarl,gVsnuzxlu),gvgwkkz,g zvqorlx,gaiszntgovlxsvxuj
Bmuzugra,grl uu ,gv.knugsagbkqvz agbmugfkslbvrlagvgakzbgkpgXvaiklgawkcul,
bmvbgRgvfgfrxmbrotgbvculgqrbm:g.oslb,g.zrup,garxlrprivlb,gvl grlgbzsbmgv
fkzugfvlotgvl gfrorbvztgovlxsvxugbmvlgvltgkbmuzgRgvfgviesvrlbu gqrbm,gva
arluqt,gwkquzpso,gvl gwuzbrlulbgvagbmugPzulimgragxzviupso,gluvb,gvl 
oshszrvlbj

VagbkgbmugOvbrl,gqmrimgqvagxrnulgfugpkzgftgfkbmuzgbklxsu,gRgmvnug.t
 raiklbrlsvliugokabgbmugsaugkpgawuvcrlxgrb,gvl ,grl uu ,gkpgqzrbrlxgrb
bkk,gqmuzurlgRgpkzfuzotgmv gvgwvzbrisovzgzuwsbvbrkl,g.tgqmrimgtksgfvtgauu
mkqgrliklar uzv.ougRgvfgklgbmvbgar uj

.uvsbtgragvgbmrlxgkpgxzuvbgzuikfful vbrklgrlgbmugikzzuawkl uliugvfklxab
ful;g‘bragbmugprzabgfuvlagkpgviesrzrlxgbmugpvnkszgvl gxkk gorcrlxgkpgklu
vlkbmuz,gvl glkgfvlgragakg.vz.vzksagvl gfkzkaugvaglkbgbkgwuziurnugmrfauop
rlgakfugakzbgabzsicgqrbmgrbagvbbzvibrkljggBmug.k tgmvagvgxzuvbgamvzugrl
kszg.urlx,gmvagvlgufrlulbgwoviugbmuzu,gvl gbmuzupkzugrbagabzsibszugvl 
ikfwkarbrklgvzugkpgnuztgysabgiklar uzvbrkljggBmutgqmkgxkgv.ksbgbk
 raslrbugvl gauwvzvbugkszgbqkgwzrlirwvogwvzbagpzkfgklugvlkbmuzgvzugbk
.ovfu;gqugfsab,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gzuslrbugvl gzuykrlgbmufjggQugfsab
ikffvl gbmugaksoglkbgbkgqrbm zvqgvl gulbuzbvrlgrbauopgvwvzb,glkbgbk
 uawraugvl gv.vl klgbmug.k tg(lurbmuzgivlgamug kgrbg.sbg.tgakfugvwram
ikslbuzpurb),g.sbgbkgslrbugmuzauopgiokaugbkgrb,gbkguf.zviu,gimuzram,
vaarab,gxknuzl,gvl gv nraugrb,gvl gbkg.zrlxgrbg.vicgvl gaubgrbgrlbkgbmu
bzsugqvtgqmulgrbgqvl uza;grlgasf,gbkguawksaugvl g.ugvgmsa.vl gbkgrb,gak
bmvbgbmurzguppuibagfvtglkbgvwwuvzgbkg.ug rnuzaugvl giklbzvzt,g.sbgslrpkzf
vl gikliszzrlxjggImzrabrvlagmvnugvgwvzbrisovzgrlabzsibrklgikliuzlrlxgbmra
iklluibrkl,gpkzgbmutgclkqgbmvbgbmug rnrlugysabriuguf.zviuagbmragakirubt
vl gyslibszugkpg.k tgvl gakso,gunulgbkgbmugfvcrlxgbmug.k tgivwv.ougkp
ubuzlvogzuqvz a;gvl gbmvbgXk gmvagvlgutugbkgbmugqmkougfvl’agqvta,gvl 
qrooagbmvbgmugzuiurnugulbrzugimvabraufulbgkzgzuqvz gviikz rlxgbkgmra
 ufuzrbagkzgfuzrbajggBmugauibgkpgbmugWuzrwvbubria,gkpgvoogauibagbmugfkab
akirv.ou,gvbbzr.sbugbkgqra kfgbmragakougivzuguesvootgbkgwzknr ugpkzgbmu
xkk gkpgbmuaugbqkgvaakirvbugwvzba:gvl gbmugkbmuzgauiba,grlglkb
aspprirulbotgvwwotrlxgbmufauonuagbkgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmragfrhbszu,
amkqgbmufauonuagbkg.ug rnr u ,gklugpkzgbmug.k tgvl gbmugkbmuzgpkzgbmu
akso,gqrbmguesvoguzzkz,gvl gbkgmvnugokabgarxmbgkpgbmurzgas.yuib,gqmrimgra
Fvl,gvl gbmurzgxsr u,gqmrimgbmutgxuluzvootgiklpuaagbkg.ugLvbszujggBmu
przabg rabrlibrklgbmvbgunuzgqvagvfklxabgful,gvl gbmugprzabgiklar uzvbrkl
bmvbgxvnugakfugwzu-ufrluliugknuzgkbmuza,g‘bragorcuotgqvagbmugv nvlbvxugkp
.uvsbt:

gggggggggggggg“Vxzkag rnrauzugvbesug u uzu
gggggggggggggggWzkgpvirugisysaesu,gubgnrzr.sagrlxulrkesu;
gggggggggggggggLvfgpviruagfsobsfgnvosrb,gnrzuaesugnrxu.vlbj”

ggggg[“Bmutg rabzr.sbu gvl giklpuzzu gbmugovl agbkgunuztgfvlgviikz rlx
gggggbkgmrag.uvsbtgvl gabzulxbmgvl gsl uzabvl rlx,gpkzg.uvsbtgqvagfsim
ggggguabuufu gvl gabzulxbmgqvagrlgpvnkszj”--Osizubrsa,gNjg1109j]

LkqgRgvfgkpgakfubmrlxgokquzgbmvlgbmugfr  ougabvbszu,gvg upuibgbmvbglkb
klotg.kz uzagswklg upkzfrbt,g.sbgivzzruagqrbmvogvgxzuvbg uvogkp
rliklnulruliugvoklxgqrbmgrb,guawuirvootgpkzgbmkaugqmkgvzugrlgkppriugvl 
ikffvl ;gpkzgbmugvsbmkzrbtgqmrimgvgxzviupsogwzuauliugvl gvgfvyuabrigfrul
.uxubgragqvlbrlxjggIjgFvzrsag r glkbgqroorlxotgulorabgvltgako ruzagqmk
quzuglkbgarhgpuubgmrxmjggBmugIkszbruzgmva,grl uu ,gzuvaklgbkg uarzugv
fk uzvbugabvbszugrlgbmugxulboufulgmugragaubbrlxgpkzbm,gzvbmuzgbmvlgvlt
kbmuz,gvl gbkgzuyuibgvoogabzvlxuluaagbmvbgamkso gfvcugmrfg.ugwkrlbu gvbj
.sbgrpgRgquzugbkgimkkaugqmubmuzgbmragfu rsfgfsabg.ugzvbmuzg.uokqgbmvl
v.knugbmugikffklgabvl vz ,gRgqkso glkbgmvnugrbgakgrlgvgako ruzjggOrbbou
ful,gavtagVzrabkbou,gvzugwzubbt,g.sbglkbgmvl akfu;gvl gxzuvbluaagkpgakso
rag raiknuzu grlgvgxzuvbg.k t,gvag.uvsbtgragrlgvgiklawrisksagabvbszu:gbmu
Ubmrkwrvlagvl gRl rvla,gavtagmu,grlgimkkarlxgbmurzgcrlxagvl gfvxrabzvbua,
mv gzuxvz gbkgbmug.uvsbtgvl gabvbszugkpgbmurzgwuzaklajggBmutgmv gzuvakl;
pkzgrbgizuvbuagzuawuibgrlgbmkaugqmkgpkookqgbmuf,gvl gragvgbuzzkzgbkgbmu
uluft,gbkgauugvgouv uzgkpgvg.zvnugvl gxkk otgabvbszugfvzimgvbgbmugmuv gkp
vg.vbbvorkl:

ggggggggg“RwaugrlbuzgwzrfkagwzvuabvlbrgikzwkzugBszlsa
ggggggggggNuzbrbszgvzfv,gbulula,gubgbkbkgnuzbriugaswzvguabj”

ggggg[“RlgbmugprzabgzvlcgfvzimuagBszlsa,g.zvl ramrlxgmragquvwkl,
gggggbvoouzg.tgvgmuv gbmvlgvoogbmugzuabj”--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,gnrrjg783j]

Kszgmkotgvl gmuvnulotgcrlx,gkpgqmkfgunuztgirzisfabvliugragfkabgivzupsoot
vl gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgzuorxrklgvl gzunuzuliugbkg.ugk.auznu ,gmvaglkb
mrfauopgzuyuibu g.k rotgzuikfful vbrkl,


ggggggggggggggg“Awuirkasagpkzfvgwzvugprorragmkfrlsfj”

gggggggggg[“Mugragpvrzuzgbmvlgbmugimro zulgkpgfulj”--Wavofghrnjg3j]

Vl gWovbk,gbkxubmuzgqrbmgbufwuzvliugvl gpkzbrbs u,gzuesrzuag.uvsbtgrlgbmu
iklauznvbkzagkpgmragzuws.orijggRbgqkso gnuhgtksgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso gvwwot
mrfauopgbkgtksgvfklxabgtkszgauznvlbagbkgrlesrzugqmuzugFklaruszgra,gvl 
bmvbgtksgamkso gklotgmvnugbmugzufvrl uzgkpgbmugikfworfulbgkpgbmugmvbgbmvb
ragfv ugbkgtkszg.vz.uzgkzgtkszgauizubvzt;gvagrbgmvwwulu gbkgwkkz
Wmrokwkuful,gqmkgvzzrnrlxgbmugprzabgkpgvoogmragikfwvltgvbgvlgrllgqmuzugmu
qvaguhwuibu ,gbmugmkabuaa,gqmkgcluqgmrfglkb,gvl gavqgmrfgvlgslarxmbot
puookq,gufwoktu gmrfgbkgxkgmuowgmuzgfvr agvgorbbougbkg zvqgqvbuz,gvl 
fvcugvgprzugvxvrlabgWmrokwkuful’agikfrlx;gbmugxulboufulgkpgmragbzvrl
vzzrnrlxgwzuaulbotgvpbuz,gvl gaszwzrau gbkgauugmrfg.satgrlgbmragprlu
ufwoktfulb,gpkzgmugpvrou glkbgbkgk.utgmragovl ov t’agikffvl ,gvacu gmrf
qmvbgmugqvag krlxgbmuzu:g“Rgvf,”gavr gmu,g“wvtrlxgbmugwulvobtgkpgft
sxorluaaj”ggBmugkbmuzg.uvsbruag.uoklxgbkgqkful;gbmug.uvsbtgkpgabvbszugra
bmugklotg.uvsbtgkpgfuljggQmuzugbmuzugragvgiklbufwbr.ougabvbszu,glurbmuz
bmugovzxuluaagvl gzksl luaagkpgbmugpkzumuv ,glkzgbmugqmrbuluaagvl 
aquubluaagkpgbmugutua,glkzgbmugfk uzvbugwzkwkzbrklgkpgbmuglkau,glkzgbmu
orbbouluaagkpgbmuguvzagvl gfksbm,glkzgbmugunulluaagvl gqmrbuluaagkpgbmu
buubm,glkzgbmugbmricluaagkpgvgquoo-aubg.zkqlg.uvz ,gamrlrlxgorcugbmugmsac
kpgvgimuablsb,glkzgiszou gmvrz,glkzgbmugysabgwzkwkzbrklgkpgbmugmuv ,glkz
vgpzuamgikfwouhrkl,glkzgvgwouvarlxgvrzgkpgvgpviu,glkzgvg.k tgqrbmksbgvlt
kppularnugaiulb,glkzgbmugysabgwzkwkzbrklgkpgorf.a,givlgfvcugvgmvl akfu
fvljggRgvf,gvagbkgbmugzuab,gabzklxgvl gquoogclrb;gftgpviugraglkbgwsppu ,
.sbgpsoo,gvl gftgikfwouhrklg.ubqrhbgyknrvogvl gfuovlimkori,gfk uzvbuot
avlxsrlugvl gmkb,

gggggggggg“Sl ugzrxulbgaubragfrmrgizszv,gubgwuibkzvgnroora;”

gggggggggg[“Qmuliug‘bragftgouxagvl g.zuvabg.zrabougqrbmgmvrzj”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,grrjg36,g5j]

ftgmuvobmgnrxkzksagvl gawzrxmbot,gunulgbkgvgquoogv nvliu gvxu,gvl gzvzuot
bzks.ou gqrbmgaricluaajggAsimgRgqva,gpkzgRg kglkbglkqgfvcugvltgviikslbgkp
ftauop,glkqgbmvbgRgvfgulxvxu grlgbmugvnulsuagkpgko gvxu,g.urlxgvozuv t
wvabgpkzbt:

gggggggggggggg“Frlsbvbrfgnrzuagubgzk.szgv sobsf
gggggggggggggggPzvlxrb,gubgrlgwvzbufgwuykzufgoresrbszgvubva:”

ggggg[“Brfug.tg uxzuuag.zuvcagkszgabzulxbmgvl gfvcuagsagxzkqgpuu.ouj
ggggg--“Osizubrsa,grrjgg1131j]

qmvbgamvoog.ugpzkfgbmragbrfugpkzqvz ,gqroog.ug.sbgvgmvop-.urlx,gvl glk
fkzugfu:gRgunuztg vtguaivwugvl gabuvogvqvtgpzkfgftauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Arlxsovg uglk.ragvllrgwzvu vlbszguslbuaj”

gggggggggg[“Kpgbmugpouubrlxgtuvzaguvimgabuvoagakfubmrlxgpzkfgfuj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grrjg2j]

Vxrorbtgvl gv  zuaagRglunuzgmv ,gvl gtubgvfgbmugaklgkpgvgnuztgvibrnugvl 
awzrxmbotgpvbmuz,gqmkgiklbrlsu gbkg.ugakgbkgvlguhbzufugko gvxujggRgmvnu
aivziugclkqlgvltgfvlgkpgmragikl rbrkl,gmraguesvogrlgvoog.k rotguhuziraua,
vagRgmvnugauo kfgfubgqrbmgvltgqmkgmvnuglkbguhiuoou gfu,guhiuwbgrl
zsllrlx,gvbgqmrimgRgqvagwzubbtgxkk jggRlgfsarigkzgarlxrlx,gpkzgqmrimgR
mvnugvgnuztgslprbgnkriu,gkzgbkgwovtgklgvltgakzbgkpgrlabzsfulb,gbmutgikso 
lunuzgbuvimgfugvltbmrlxjggRlg vlirlx,gbullra,gkzgqzuaborlx,gRgikso glunuz
vzzrnugbkgfkzugbmvlgvlgkz rlvztgwrbim;grlgaqrffrlx,gpulirlx,gnvsobrlx,
vl gouvwrlx,gbkglklugvbgvoojggFtgmvl agvzugakgiosfatgbmvbgRgivllkbgunul
qzrbugakgvagbkgzuv grbgftauop,gakgbmvbgRgmv gzvbmuzg kgqmvbgRgmvnu
aizr..ou gknuzgvxvrl,gbmvlgbvcugswklgfugbmugbzks.ougbkgfvcugrbgksbjggRg k
lkbgzuv gfsimg.ubbuzgbmvlgRgqzrbu,gvl gpuuogbmvbgRgquvztgftgvs rbkza
kbmuzqraug(Rgvf)glkbgvg.v giouzcjggRgivllkbg uiulbotgpko gswgvgoubbuz,
lkzgikso gunuzgfvcugvgwul,gkzgivznugvbgbv.ougqkzbmgvgwrl,glkzgav  ougv
mkzau,glkzgivzztgvgmvqcgvl gpotgmuz,glkzgmslbgbmug kxa,glkzgoszugvgmvqc,
lkzgawuvcgbkgvgmkzaujggRlgprlu,gftg.k rotgesvorbruagvzugnuztgquoogasrbu 
bkgbmkaugkpgftgakso;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgawzrxmbot,gklotgvgpsoogvl gprzf
nrxksz:gRgvfgwvbrulbgulksxmgkpgov.kszgvl gwvrla,g.sbgrbgragklotgqmulgRgxk
nkoslbvztgbkgqkzc,gvl gklotgakgoklxgvagftgkqlg uarzugwzkfwbagfugbkgrb:

gggggggggg“Fkoorbuzgvsabuzsfgabs rkgpvooulbugov.kzufj”

gggggggggg[“Abs tgakpbotg.uxsrorlxgaunuzugov.kszj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grrjg2,g12j]

kbmuzqrau,grpgRgvfglkbgvooszu gqrbmgakfugwouvaszu,gkzgmvnugkbmuzgxsr u
bmvlgftgkqlgwszugvl gpzuugrliorlvbrkl,gRgvfgxkk gpkzglkbmrlx:gpkzgRgvfgkp
vgmsfkszgbmvb,gorpugvl gmuvobmguhiuwbu ,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgpkzgqmrimgR
qroog.rbugftglvroa,gvl gbmvbgRgqroogwszimvaugvbgbmugwzriugkpgbkzfulbgkp
frl gvl giklabzvrlb:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Bvlbrgfrmrglklgarbgkwvir
ggggggggggKflragvzulvgBvxr,gesk esugrlgfvzugnkonrbszgvszsfj”

ggggg[“Rgqkso glkbg.stgzrimgBvxsagavl agakg uvz,glkzgvoogbmugxko gbmvb
gggggoruagrlgbmugauvj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,grrrjg54j]

Uhbzufuotgr ou,guhbzufuotgxrnulgswgbkgftgkqlgrliorlvbrklg.kbmg.tglvbszu
vl gvzb,gRgqkso gvagqroorlxotgoul gvgfvlgftg.okk gvagftgwvrlajggRgmvnugv
aksogpzuugvl gulbrzuotgrbagkql,gvl gviisabkfu gbkgxsr ugrbauopgvpbuzgrba
kqlgpvamrkl;gmvnrlxgmrbmuzbkglunuzgmv gurbmuzgfvabuzgkzgxknuzlkzgrfwkau 
swklgfu:gRgmvnugqvocu gvagpvzgvagRgqkso ,gvl gvbgbmugwviugbmvbg.uab
wouvau gftauop;gbmragragrbgbmvbgmvagzul uzu gfugslprbgpkzgbmugauznriugkp
kbmuza,gvl gmvagfv ugfugkpglkgsaugbkgvltgklug.sbgftauopj

Lkzgqvagbmuzugvltgluu gkpgpkzirlxgftgmuvntgvl govdtg rawkarbrkl;gpkz
.urlxg.kzlgbkgasimgvgpkzbslugvagRgmv gzuvaklgbkg.ugiklbulbu gqrbmg(v
zuvakl,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgvgbmksavl gkbmuzagkpgftgviesvrlbvliugqkso 
mvnugzvbmuzgfv ugsaugkpgpkzgvgwovlcgswklgqmrimgbkgwvaagknuzgrlgauvzimgkp
mrxmuzgpkzbslu,gbkgbsfsobgvl g raesrub),gvl gqrbmgvagfsimgrlbuoorxuliugva
Rgzuesrzu ,gRgaksxmbgpkzglkgfkzu,gvl gvoakgxkbglkgfkzu:

gggggggggggggg“Lklgvxrfszgbsfr ragnuoragVesroklugauisl k,
gggggggggggggggLklgbvfulgv nuzaragvubvbufg sirfsagVsabzra
gggggggggggggggNrzr.sa,grlxulrk,gawuiru,gnrzbsbu,gokik,gzu,
gggggggggggggggUhbzufrgwzrfkzsf,guhbzufragsaesugwzrkzuaj”

ggggg[“Bmuglkzbmuzlgqrl g kuaglkbgvxrbvbugkszgavroa;glkzgVsabuzgbzks.ou
gggggkszgikszaugqrbmgabkzfajggRlgabzulxbm,gbvoulb,gprxszu,gnrzbsu,
gggggmklksz,gquvobm,gqugvzugamkzbgkpgbmugpkzufkab,g.sbg.upkzugbmugovabj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grrjg2,g201j]

Rgmv gklotgluu gkpgqmvbgqvagaspprirulbgbkgiklbulbgfu:gqmrimglunuzbmuouaa
ragvgxknuzlfulbgkpgakso,gbkgbvcugrbgzrxmb,guesvootg rpprisobgrlgvoogakzba
kpgikl rbrkla,gvl gbmvb,gkpgisabkf,gqugauugfkzuguvarotgpksl grlgqvlbgbmvl
rlgv.sl vliu:gpkzvafsim,gwuzv nulbszu,gvagviikz rlxgbkgbmugikszaugkpgksz
kbmuzgwvaarkla,gbmug uarzugkpgzrimuagragfkzugamvzwulu g.tgbmurzgsaugbmvl
.tgbmugluu gkpgbmuf:gvl gbmugnrzbsugkpgfk uzvbrklgfkzugzvzugbmvlgbmvbgkp
wvbruliu;gvl gRglunuzgmv gvltbmrlxgbkg uarzu,g.sbgmvwwrotgbkgulyktgbmu
uabvbugbmvbgXk g.tgMrag.kslbtgmv gwsbgrlbkgftgmvl ajggRgmvnuglunuzgclkql
vltbmrlxgkpgbzks.ou,gvl gmvnugmv gorbbougbkg kgrlgvltbmrlxg.sbgbmu
fvlvxufulbgkpgftgkqlgvppvrza:gkz,grpgRgmvnu,grbgmvag.uulgswklgikl rbrkl
bkg kgrbgvbgftgkqlgouraszugvl gvpbuzgftgkqlgfubmk ;gikffrbbu gbkgftgbzsab
.tgasimgvagmv gvgiklpr uliugrlgfu,gqmkg r glkbgrfwkzbslugfu,gvl gqmkgcluq
ftgmsfksz;gpkzgxkk gmkzaufulgqroogfvcugamrpbgbkgxubgauznriugksbgkpgv
zsabtgvl g.zkcul-qrl u gyv uj

Unulgftgrlpvlitgqvagbzvrlu gswgvpbuzgvgxulbougvl gpzuugfvlluz,gvl guhufwb
pzkfgvltgzrxkzksagas.yuibrkljggVoogbmragmvagmuowu gfugbkgvgikfwouhrkl
 uorivbugvl grlivwv.ougkpgakorirbs u,gunulgbkgbmvbg uxzuugbmvbgRgoknugbk
mvnugftgokaauagvl gbmug rakz uzagqmuzurlgRgvfgikliuzlu ,gikliuvou gpzkf
fujggRlgbmugviikslbgkpgftguhwulaua,gRgwsbg kqlgqmvbgftgluxorxuliugikaba
fugrlgpuu rlxgvl gfvrlbvrlrlxgrb;

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Mvuiglufwugaswuzaslb,
gggggggggggggggEsvug kfrlsfgpvooslb,gesvugwzkaslbgpszr.saj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bmvbgknuzwosa,gqmrimgbmugkqluzgclkqaglkbgkp,
ggggggggggggggg.sbgqmrimg.uluprbagbmugbmrunua”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg645]

RgoknuglkbgbkgclkqgqmvbgRgmvnu,gbmvbgRgfvtg.ugouaagaular.ougkpgftgokaa;
Rgulbzuvbgbmkaugqmkgauznugfu,gqmuzugvppuibrklgvl grlbuxzrbtgvzugv.aulb,
bkg uiurnugfugqrbmgakfubmrlxgorcugvg uiulbgvwwuvzvliujggPkzgqvlbgkp
iklabvlitgulksxmgbkgaswwkzbgbmugamkicgkpgv nuzaugviir ulbagbkgqmrimgqu
vzugas.yuib,gvl gkpgwvbruliugauzrksaotgbkgvwwotgftauopgbkgbmugfvlvxufulb
kpgftgvppvrza,gRglkszramgvagfsimgvagRgivlgbmragrlgftauop,gqmkootgouvnrlx
voogbkgpkzbslug“bkgbvcugvoogbmrlxagvbgbmugqkzab,gvl gbkgzuakonugbkg.uvz
bmvbgqkzabgqrbmgbufwuzgvl gwvbruliu”;gbmvbgragbmugklotgbmrlxgRgvrfgvb,
vl gbkgqmrimgRgvwwotgftgqmkougfu rbvbrkljggRlgvg vlxuz,gRg kglkbgakgfsim
iklar uzgmkqgRgamvooguaivwugrb,gvagkpgmkqgorbbougrfwkzbvliugrbgra,
qmubmuzgRguaivwugrbgkzglk:gamkso gRg.ugoupbg uv gswklgbmugwoviu,gqmvb
fvbbuz?ggLkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgxknuzlgunulba,gRgxknuzlgftauop,gvl gvwwot
ftauopgbkgbmuf,grpgbmutgqrooglkbgvwwotgbmufauonuagbkgfujggRgmvnuglkgxzuvb
vzbgbkgunv u,guaivwugpzkfgkzgpkziugpkzbslu,gvl g.tgwzs uliugbkgxsr ugvl 
rliorlugbmrlxagbkgftgkqlg.rvajggRgmvnugabroogouaagwvbruliugbkgsl uzxkgbmu
bzks.ouakfugvl gwvrlpsogivzugbmuzurlgzuesrzu ;gvl gbmugfkabgsluvat
ikl rbrklgpkzgfugragbkg.ugasawul u gklgszxulbgkiivarkla,gvl gbkg.u
vxrbvbu g.ubqrhbgmkwugvl gpuvzj

 uor.uzvbrkl,gunulgrlgbmrlxagkpgorxmbuabgfkfulb,gragnuztgbzks.ouakfugbk
fu;gvl gRgprl gftgfrl gfkzugwsbgbkgrbgbkgsl uzxkgbmugnvzrksagbsf.orlxa
vl gbkaarlxagkpg ks.bgvl giklasobvbrkl,gbmvlgbkgaubgswgrbagzuabgvl gbk
viesruaiugrlgqmvbunuzgamvoogmvwwulgvpbuzgbmug rugragbmzkqljggPuqgwvaarkla
.zuvcgftgaouuw,g.sbgkpg uor.uzvbrkla,gbmugouvabgqroog kgrbjggVagrlgzkv a,
Rgwzupuzv.otgvnkr gbmkaugbmvbgvzugaokwrlxgvl gaorwwuzt,gvl gwsbgftauop
rlbkgbmug.uvbulgbzvicgmkqg rzbtgkzg uuwgakunuz,gqmuzugRgivlgpvooglk
okquz,gvl gbmuzugauucgftgavpubt:gakgRgoknugfrapkzbsluagbmvbgvzugwszuot
ak,gbmvbg kglkbgbkzfulbgvl gbuvaugfugqrbmgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurz
xzkqrlxg.ubbuz;g.sbgbmvbgvbgbmugprzabgwsamgwoslxugfug rzuibotgrlbkgbmu
qkzabgbmvbgivlg.uguhwuibu 

gggggggggggggggggggg“ s.rvgwosagbkzesulbgfvovj”

ggggggggggggggg[“ ks.bpsogrooagwovxsugsagqkzabj”
gggggggggggggggg--Auluiv,gVxvfuflkl,grrrjg1,g29j]


RlgunulbagRgivzztgftauopgorcugvgfvl;grlgikl sib,gorcugvgimro jggBmugpuvz
kpgbmugpvoogfkzugpunuzagfugbmvlgbmugpvoogrbauopjggBmugxvfugraglkbgqkzbm
bmugivl oujggBmugiknubksagfvlgpvzuagqkzaugqrbmgmragwvaarklgbmvlgbmugwkkz,
vl gbmugyuvoksagfvlgbmvlgbmugisicko ;gvl gvgfvlgkpbbrfuagokauagfkzug.t
 upul rlxgmragnrlutvz gbmvlgrpgmugxvnugrbgswjggBmugokquabgqvocgragbmu
avpuab;g‘bragbmugauvbgkpgiklabvlit;gtksgmvnugbmuzugluu gkpglkgklug.sb
tkszauop;g‘bragbmuzugpksl u gvl gqmkootgabvl agswklgrbagkqlg.varajggMva
lkbgbmraguhvfwougkpgvgxulboufvlgnuztgquoogclkql,gakfugvrzgkpgwmrokakwmt
rlgrb?ggMugfvzzru ,g.urlxgquoogv nvliu grlgtuvza,gmvnrlxgawulbgmragtksbm
rlgxkk gpuookqamrw,gvgxzuvbgbvocuzgvl gvgxzuvbgyuuzuz,givoorlxgbkgfrl 
mkqgfsimgbmugas.yuibgkpgisicko ztgmv gxrnulgmrfgkiivarklgbkgbvocgvl 
aikppgvbgkbmuzajggBkgwzunulbgbmufgpzkfgwvtrlxgmrfgrlgmragkqlgikrl,gmu
fvzzru gvgqrpugpzkfgvgwoviugqmuzugvltgklugprl agqmvbgmugqvlbagpkzgmra
fklut:g“Xkk gfkzzkq,gabzsfwub”;g“Xkk gfkzzkq,gisicko ”;gvl gbmuzugqvaglkb
vltbmrlxgqmuzuqrbmgmugfkzugikffklotgvl gkwulotgulbuzbvrlu gbmkaugqmkgivfu
bkgauugmrfgbmvlgqrbmgbmrag uarxlgkpgmra,g.tgqmrimgmugabkwwu gbmugwzrnvbu
imvbbuzrlxgkpgfkicuza,gvl g.oslbu gvoogbmugwkrlbgpzkfgbmragzuwzkvimj

Vagbkgvf.rbrkl,gqmrimgraglurxm.ksz,gkzgzvbmuzg vsxmbuz,gbkgwzuasfwbrkl,
pkzbslu,gbkgv nvliugfu,gfsabgmvnugikfugvl gbvculgfug.tgbmugmvl ;gpkzgbk
bzks.ougftauopgpkzgvlgsliuzbvrlgmkwu,gvl gbkgmvnugas.frbbu gftauopgbkgvoo
bmug rpprisobruagbmvbgviikfwvltgbmkaugqmkgul uvnkszgbkg.zrlxgbmufauonua
rlbkgizu rbgrlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgbmurzgwzkxzuaa,gRgikso glunuzgmvnug klu
rb:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Awufgwzubrkglklgufkj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Rgqrooglkbgwszimvaugmkwugqrbmgzuv tgfklut,”g(kz),
ggggggggggggggg“Rg kglkbgwszimvaugmkwugvbgvgwzriuj”
gggggggggggggggg--Buzuliu,gV uowmr,grrjg3,g11j]

RgvwwotgftauopgbkgqmvbgRgauugvl gbkgqmvbgRgmvnugrlgftgmvl ,gvl gxkglkb
nuztgpvzgpzkfgbmugamkzu,

ggggggggggggggg“Vobuzgzufsagvesva,gvobuzgbr.rgzv vbgvzulva:”

ggggg[“Klugkvzgwoslxrlxgrlbkgbmugauv,gbmugkbmuzgzvcrlxgbmugavl aj”
gggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjgg3,g23j]

vl g.uar ua,gvgfvlgzvzuotgvzzrnuagvbgbmuaugv nvliufulbag.sbgrlgprzab
mvdvz rlxgqmvbgmugmvagkpgmragkql;gvl gRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrpgvgfvlgmvnu
aspprirulbgbkgfvrlbvrlgmrfgrlgbmugikl rbrklgqmuzurlgmugqvag.kzlgvl 
.zksxmbgsw,g‘bragvgxzuvbgpkootgbkgmvdvz gbmvbgswklgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkp
vsxfulbrlxgrbjggMugbkgqmkfgpkzbslugmvag ulru gqmuzuklgbkgaubgmragpkkb,
vl gbkgaubbougvgesrubgvl gikfwkau gqvtgkpgornrlx,gragbkg.uguhisau grpgmu
nulbszugqmvbgmugmva,g.uivsau,gmvwwulgqmvbgqroo,gluiuaarbtgwsbagmrfgswkl
amrpbrlxgpkzgmrfauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Ivwrul vgzu.sagrlgfvoragwzvuiuwagnrvguab:”

gggggggggg[“Vgikszaugragbkg.ugbvculgrlg.v givauaj”g(kz),
gggggggggg“Vg uawuzvbugivaugfsabgmvnugvg uawuzvbugikszauj”
ggggggggggg---Auluiv,gVxvfuflkl,grrjg1,g47j]

vl gRgzvbmuzguhisaugvgtkslxuzg.zkbmuzgpkzguhwkarlxgqmvbgmragpzrul agmvnu
oupbgmrfgbkgbmugikszbuatgkpgpkzbslu,gbmvlgmrfgqrbmgqmkfgbmugmklkszgkpgmra
pvfrotgragulbzsabu ,gqmkgivllkbg.ugluiuaarbksag.sbg.tgmragkqlgpvsobj
Rgmvnugpksl gvgfsimgamkzbuzgvl gfkzuguvatgqvt,g.tgbmugv nriugkpgbmugxkk 
pzrul agRgmv grlgftgtkslxuzg vta,gbkgpzuugftauopgpzkfgvltgasimgvf.rbrkl,
vl gbkgarbgabroo:

gggggggggg“Isrgarbgikl rbrkg soiragarlugwsonuzugwvofvu:”

ggggg[“Qmvbgikl rbrklgivlgikfwvzugqrbmgbmvbgqmuzugklugmvagxvrlu gbmu
gggggwvofgqrbmksbgbmug sabgkpgbmugikszauj”--Mkzviu,ggUwj,grjgR,g51j]

ys xrlxgzrxmbotgulksxmgkpgftgkqlgabzulxbm,gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgivwv.ougkpgvlt
xzuvbgfvbbuza;gvl givoorlxgbkgfrl gbmugavtrlxgkpgbmugovbugImvliuookz
Kornruz,gbmvbgbmugPzulimgquzugorcugfklcutagbmvbgaqvzfgswgvgbzuugpzkf
.zvlimgbkg.zvlim,gvl glunuzgabkwgbroogbmutgikfugbkgbmugmrxmuab,gvl gbmuzu
amuqgbmurzg.zuuimj

gggggggggg“Bszwuguab,gesk gluesuva,givwrbrgikffrbbuzugwkl sa,
ggggggggggUbgwzuaasfgrlpouhkgfkhg vzugbuzxvgxulsj”

ggggg[“Rbgragvgamvfugbkgokv gbmugmuv gakgbmvbgrbgivllkbg.uvzgbmu
ggggg.szbmul,gvl gbmugcluuagxrnugqvtj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg9,g5j]

Rgamkso gprl gbmug.uabgesvorbruagRgmvnugsauouaagrlgbmragvxu;gbmugpvirorbt
kpgftgfvlluzagqkso gmvnug.uulgivoou gquvcluaagvl gluxorxuliu;gftgpvrbm
vl giklairuliu,gaizswsokarbtgvl gaswuzabrbrkl;gftgor.uzbtgvl gpzuu kf
qkso gmvnug.uulgzuwsbu gbzks.ouakfu,grliklar uzvbu,gvl gzvamjggRoogosic
ragxkk gpkzgakfubmrlxjggRbgragxkk gbkg.ug.kzlgrlgvgnuztg uwzvnu gvxu;gpkz
ak,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgkbmuza,gtksgamvoog.ugzuwsbu gnrzbsksagxkk gimuvw;gmu
qmkgrlgkszg vtagrag.sbgvgwvzzrir ugvl gvgavizrouxrksagwuzaklgragvlgmkluab
fvlgvl gvgfvlgkpgmklksz:

gggggggggggggg“Lsli,garg uwkarbsfglklgrlprirvbszgvfrisa,
gggggggggggggggArgzu  vbgnubuzufgisfgbkbvgvuzsxrlugpkoouf,
gggggggggggggggWzk rxrkavgpr ua,gubgBsairag rxlvgor.uoora,
gggggggggggggggEsvuesugikzklvbvgosabzvzrg u.uvbgvxlv:”

ggggg[“Lkq,grpgvgpzrul g kuaglkbg ultgmragbzsab,g.sbgzuabkzuagbmugko 
gggggwszaugqrbmgvoogrbagzsab;g‘bragvgwzk rxrksagpvrbm,gqkzbmtgbkg.u
gggggulzkoou grlgvfklxabgbmugBsaivlgvllvoa,gvl gvgizkqlu govf.gamkso g.u
gggggavizrpriu gbkgasimguhufwovztgrlbuxzrbtj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghrrrjg611j]

vl glunuzgqvagbrfugkzgwoviugqmuzurlgwzrliuagfrxmbgwzkwkaugbkgbmufauonua
fkzugvaaszu gkzgxzuvbuzgzuqvz agpkzgnrzbsugvl gysabriujggBmugprzabgqmk
amvoogfvcugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgxubgmrfauopgrlbkgpvnkszgvl guabuufg.tgbmkau
qvta,gRgvfgfsimg uiurnu grpgmug kglkbgvl g.tgbmug.uabgbrbougksbabzrwgmra
ikfwubrbkza:gpkziugvl gnrkouliugivlg kgakfubmrlx,g.sbglkbgvoqvtagvooj
Qugauugfuzimvlba,gikslbztgysabriua,gvl gvzbravlagxkgimuucg.tgykqogqrbm
bmug.uabgxulbztgrlgnvokszgvl gfrorbvztgclkqou xu:gbmutgwuzpkzfgmklkszv.ou
vibrkla,g.kbmgrlgws.origulxvxufulbagvl gwzrnvbugesvzzuoa;gbmutgprxmb
 suoa,gbmutg upul gbkqlagrlgkszgwzuaulbgqvza;gvgwzrliugabrpouagmra
awuirvogzuikfful vbrkl,gzulkql,grlgbmragizkq ;goubgmrfgamrlug.zrxmbgrl
msfvlrbt,gbzsbm,goktvobt,gbufwuzvliu,gvl guawuirvootgrlysabriu;gfvzca
zvzu,gslclkql,gvl guhrou ;g‘brag.tglkgkbmuzgfuvlag.sbg.tgbmugakou
xkk qroogkpgbmugwukwougbmvbgmugivlg kgmrag.sarluaa;gvl glkgkbmuz
esvorbruagivlgvbbzvibgbmurzgxkk qroogorcugbmkau,gvag.urlxgkpgbmugxzuvbuab
sbrorbtgbkgbmuf:

ggggggggggggggg“Lroguabgbvfgwkwsovzu,gesvfg.klrbvaj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragakgwkwsovzgvagvlgvxzuuv.ougfvlluzg(xkk luaa)j”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gWzkgOrxvzj,gijg12j]

.tgbmragabvl vz gRgmv g.uulgxzuvbgvl gzvzu,gysabgvagRgprl gftauopglkq
wrxftgvl gnsoxvzg.tgbmugabvl vz gkpgakfugwvabgvxua,gqmuzurl,grpglkgkbmuz
.ubbuzgesvorbruagikliszzu ,grbgqvagkz rlvztgvl gikffklgbkgauugvgfvl
fk uzvbugrlgmragzunulxua,gxulbougrlgzuaulbrlxgrlyszrua,gzuorxrksagkpgmra
qkz ,glurbmuzg ks.ouglkzgaswwou,glkzgviikffk vbrlxgmragpvrbmgbkgbmugqroo
kpgkbmuza,gkzgbmugbszlagkpgbmugbrfua:gRgqkso gzvbmuzgauugvoogvppvrzagxk
bkgqzuicgvl gzsrlgbmvlgpvoarptgftgpvrbmgbkgauiszugbmufjggPkzgvagbkgbmra
luqgnrzbsugkpgpurxlrlxgvl g raarfsovbrkl,gqmrimgraglkqgrlgakgxzuvb
izu rb,gRgfkzbvootgmvbugrb;gvl gkpgvoognriuagprl glklugbmvbgunr uliuagak
fsimg.vauluaagvl gfuvlluaagkpgawrzrbjgg‘Bragvgikqvz otgvl gauznrougmsfksz
bkgmr ugvl g raxsraugvgfvl’agauopgsl uzgvgnrakz,gvl glkbgbkg vzugbkgamkq
mrfauopgqmvbgmugra;g‘brag.tgbmragkszgauznvlbagvzugbzvrlu gswgbk
bzuvimuzt;g.urlxg.zksxmbgswgbkgawuvcgqmvbgraglkbgbzsu,gbmutgfvcuglk
iklairuliugkpgvgorujggVgxuluzksagmuvzbgksxmbglkbgbkg.uorugrbagkql
bmksxmba;grbgqroogfvcugrbauopgauulgqrbmrl;gvoogbmuzugragxkk ,gkzgvbgouvab
msfvljggVzrabkbouggzuwsbuagrbgbmugkppriugkpgfvxlvlrfrbtgkwulotgvl 
wzkpuaau otgbkgoknugvl gmvbu;gbkgys xugvl gawuvcgqrbmgvoogpzuu kf;gvl 
lkbgbkgnvosugbmugvwwzk.vbrklgkzg raorcugkpgkbmuzagrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbzsbmj
Vwkooklrsagavr grbgqvagpkzgaovnuagbkgoru,gvl gpkzgpzuufulgbkgawuvcgbzsbm:
‘bragbmugimrupgvl gpsl vfulbvogwvzbgkpgnrzbsu;gqugfsabgoknugrbgpkz
rbauopjggMugqmkgawuvcagbzsbmg.uivsaugmugragk.orxu gakgbkg k,gvl g.uivsau
rbgauznuagmrf,gvl gqmkgraglkbgvpzvr gbkgorugqmulgrbgarxlrpruaglkbmrlxgbk
vlt.k t,graglkbgaspprirulbotgbzsujggFtgaksoglvbszvootgv.kfrlvbuagotrlx,
vl gmvbuagbmugnuztgbmksxmbgkpgrbjggRgmvnugvlgrlqvz gamvfugvl gvgamvzw
zufkzau,grpgakfubrfuagvgoruguaivwuagfu:gvagakfubrfuagrbg kua,g.urlx
aszwzrau g.tgkiivarklagbmvbgvookqgfuglkgwzufu rbvbrkljggVgfvlgfsabglkb
voqvtagbuoogvoo,gpkzgbmvbgquzugpkoot:g.sbgqmvbgvgfvlgavtagamkso g.ugqmvb
mugbmrlca,gkbmuzqraug‘bragclvnuztjggRg kglkbgclkqgqmvbgv nvlbvxugful
wzubul gbkg.tgubuzlvootgikslbuzpurbrlxgvl g raauf.orlx,grpglkbglunuzgbk
.ug.uorunu gqmulgbmutgawuvcgbmugbzsbm;grbgfvtgkliugkzgbqriugwvaagqrbm
ful;g.sbgbkgwzkpuaagbmugikliuvorlxgbmurzgbmksxmb,gvl gbkg.zvx,gvagakfugkp
kszgwzrliuagmvnug klu,gbmvbgbmutgqkso g.szlgbmurzgamrzbagrpgbmutgcluq
bmurzgbzsugrlbulbrkla,gqmrimgqvagvgavtrlxgkpgbmugvlirulbgFubuoorsagkp
Fviu kl;gvl gbmvbgbmutgqmkgclkqglkbgmkqgbkg raauf.ougclkqglkbgmkqgbk
zsou,gragbkgxrnugqvzlrlxgbkgvoogqmkgmvnugvltbmrlxgbkg kgqrbmgbmuf,gbmvb
voogbmutgavtgraglkbmrlxg.sbgotrlxgvl g uiurb:

gggggggggg“Eskgesragnuzasbrkzgubgivoor rkzguab,gmkigrlnrarkzgub
ggggggggggasawuibrkz,g ubzvibkgkwrlrklugwzk.rbvbra:”

ggggg[“.tgmkqgfsimgvltgklugragfkzugas.bougvl gisllrlx,g.tgakgfsimgragmu
gggggmvbu gvl gasawuibu ,gbmugkwrlrklgkpgmragrlbuxzrbtg.urlxgqrbm zvqlj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKppj,grrjg9j]

rbgquzugvgxzuvbgarfworirbtgrlgvltgklugbkgovtgvltgabzuaagurbmuzgklgbmu
ikslbulvliugkzgqkz gkpgvgfvlgqmkgmvagwsbgklgvgzuakosbrklgbkg.ugvoqvta
vlkbmuzgbmrlxgqrbmksbgbmvlgmugragqrbmrl,gvagBr.uzrsag r ;gvl gRgivllkb
ikliurnugqmvbgwvzbgasimgwuzaklagivlgmvnugrlgiklnuzavbrklgqrbmgful,gauurlx
bmutgwzk siuglkbmrlxgbmvbgragzuiurnu gvagbzsu:gqmkunuzgrag raoktvogbk
bzsbmgragbmugavfugbkgpvoaumkk gvoakj

Bmkaugkpgkszgbrfugqmkgmvnugiklar uzu grlgbmuguabv.oramfulbgkpgbmug sbtgkp
vgwzrliugbmugxkk gkpgmragvppvrzagklot,gvl gmvnugwzupuzzu gbmvbgbkgbmu
ivzugkpgmragpvrbmgvl giklairuliu,gfrxmbgmvnugakfubmrlxgbkgavtgbkgvgwzrliu
qmkaugvppvrzagpkzbslugmv gwsbgrlbkgasimgvgwkabszugbmvbgmugfrxmbgpkzgunuz
uabv.oramgbmufg.tgklotgkliug.zuvcrlxgmragqkz :g.sbgrbgqrooglkbgxkgak;
bmutgkpbulg.stgrlgbmugavfugfvzcub;gbmutgfvcugfkzugbmvlgklugwuviugvl 
ulbuzgrlbkgfkzugbmvlgklugbzuvbtgrlgbmurzgornuajggXvrlgbufwbagbkgbmugprzab
.zuvimgkpgpvrbm,gvl gvofkabgvoqvtagwzuaulbagrbauop,gvagrlgvoogkbmuzgroo
viba,gavizrouxua,gfsz uza,gzu.uoorkla,gbzuvakla,gvag.urlxgsl uzbvculgpkz
akfugcrl gkpgv nvlbvxu;g.sbgbmragprzabgxvrlgmvagrlprlrbugfraimrunksa
iklauesuliua,gbmzkqrlxgbmragwzrliugksbgkpgvoogikzzuawkl uliugvl 
luxkbrvbrkl,g.tgbmraguhvfwougkpgrlpr uorbtjggAkorfvl,gkpgbmugKbbkfvl
zviu,gvgzviuglkbgnuztgakorirbksagkpgcuuwrlxgbmurzgqkz agkzgikfwviba,
qmul,grlgftgrlpvlit,gmugfv ugmragvzftgovl gvbgKbzvlbk,g.urlxgrlpkzfu 
bmvbgFuziszrlkg u’gXzvbrlvzugvl gbmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgIvabzkgquzug ubvrlu 
wzrakluza,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgaszzul uzu gbmugwoviu,giklbzvztgbkgbmugvzbrioua
kpgbmurzgivwrbsovbrkl,gaulbgkz uzagbkgmvnugbmufgaubgvbgor.uzbt,gavtrlx,
bmvbgmvnrlxgkbmuzgxzuvbgulbuzwzrauagrlgmvl grlgbmkaugwvzba,gbmu
 raoktvobt,gbmksxmgrbgivzzru gvgamkqgkpgwzuaulbgsbrorbt,gqkso gpkzgbmu
psbszug.zrlxgklgmrfgvg razuwsbugvl g rabzsabgkpgrlprlrbugwzuys riuj

Lkq,gpkzgftgwvzb,gRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugbzks.ouakfugvl grl raizuubgbmvlgv
povbbuzuzgvl gvg raauf.ouzjggRgiklpuaagbmvbgbmuzugfvtg.ugakfugfrhbszugkp
wzr ugvl gk.abrlvitgrlgcuuwrlxgftauopgakgswzrxmbgvl gkwulgvagRg k,
qrbmksbgvltgiklar uzvbrklgkpgkbmuza;gvl gfubmrlcagRgvfgvgorbbougbkkgpzuu,
qmuzugRgksxmbgouvabgbkg.ugak,gvl gbmvbgRgxzkqgmkbg.tgbmugkwwkarbrklgkp
zuawuib;gvl grbgfvtg.ugvoak,gbmvbgRgasppuzgftauopgbkgpkookqgbmu
wzkwularklgkpgftgkqlglvbszugpkzgqvlbgkpgvzb;gsarlxgbmugavfugor.uzbt,
awuuim,gvl gikslbulvliugbkqvz agxzuvbgwuzakla,gbmvbgRg.zrlxgqrbmgfugpzkf
ftgkqlgmksau:gRgvfgaular.ougmkqgfsimgrbg uiorluagbkqvz agrlirnrorbtgvl 
rl raizubrklg.sb,g.uar uagbmvbgRgvfgakg.zu ,gRgmvnuglkbgvgqrbgaswwou
ulksxmgbkgunv ugvgas  ulgesuabrkl,gvl gbkguaivwug.tgakfugunvarkl,glkzgbk
purxlgvgbzsbm,glkzgfufkztgulksxmgbkgzubvrlgrbgakgpurxlu ;glkz,gbzsot,
vaaszvliugulksxmgbkgfvrlbvrlgrb,gvl gakgwovtgbmug.zvnugksbgkpgquvcluaaj
Vl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgRgv.vl klgftauopgbkgivl ksz,gvoqvtagbkgawuvcgva
Rgbmrlc,g.kbmg.tgikfwouhrklgvl g uarxl,gouvnrlxgbmugunulbgbkgpkzbsluj
Vzrabrwwsagqvagqklbgbkgavt,gbmvbgbmugwzrlirwvog.uluprbgmugmv guhbzvibu 
pzkfgwmrokakwmtgqvagbmvbgmugawkcugpzuuotgvl gkwulotgbkgvooj

Fufkztgragvgpvisobtgkpgqkl uzpsogsau,gvl gqrbmksbgqmrimgbmugys xfulbgivl
nuztgmvz otgwuzpkzfgrbagkppriu:gpkzgftgwvzbgRgmvnuglklugvbgvoojggQmvbgvlt
klugqroogwzkwksl gbkgfu,gmugfsabg kgrbgwruiufuvo,gpkzgbkgvlaquzgvgawuuim
iklarabrlxgkpgaunuzvogmuv agRgvfglkbgv.oujggRgikso glkbgzuiurnugv
ikffraarklg.tgqkz gkpgfksbmgqrbmksbgvglkbu-.kkcjggVl gqmulgRgmvnugv
awuuimgkpgiklauesuliugbkgfvcu,grpgrbg.ugoklx,gRgvfgzu siu gbkgbmu
frauzv.ougluiuaarbtgkpgxubbrlxg.tgmuvzbgqkz gpkzgqkz ,gqmvbgRgvfgbkgavt;
Rgamkso gkbmuzqraugmvnuglurbmuzgfubmk glkzgvaaszvliu,g.urlxgrlgpuvzgbmvb
ftgfufkztgqkso gwovtgfugvgaorwwuztgbzricjgg.sbgbmragqvtgraglkgouaa
 rpprisobgbkgfugbmvlgbmugkbmuz;gRgfsabgmvnugbmzuugmkszagbkgouvzlgbmzuu
nuzauajggVl g.uar ua,grlgvgqkzcgkpgvgfvl’agkql,gbmugor.uzbtgvl gvsbmkzrbt
kpgvobuzrlxgbmugkz uz,gkpgimvlxrlxgvgqkz ,grliuaavlbotgnvztrlxgbmu
fvbbuz,gfvcuagrbgmvz uzgbkgabricgrlgbmugfufkztgkpgbmugvsbmkzjggBmugfkzu
Rgfrabzsabgrbgbmugqkzaugrbgra;grbgauznuagfug.uabg.tgimvliu;gRgfsab
akorirbgrbgluxorxulbot;gpkzgrpgRgwzuaagrb,g‘bragiklpsau ,gvl gvpbuzgrb
kliug.uxrlagbkgabvxxuz,gbmugfkzugRgaksl grb,gbmugfkzugrbgragwuzwouhu ;
rbgauznuagfugvbgrbagkqlgmksz,glkbgvbgfrluj

Vl gbmugavfug upuibgRgprl grlgftgfufkzt,gRgprl gvoakgrlgaunuzvogkbmuz
wvzbajggRgpotgikffvl ,gk.orxvbrkl,gvl giklabzvrlb;gbmvbgqmrimgRgivl
kbmuzqrauglvbszvootgvl guvarotg k,grpgRgrfwkaugrbgswklgftauopg.tgvl
uhwzuaagvl gabzribgrlyslibrkl,gRgivllkbg kgrbjggUnulgbmugfuf.uzagkpgft
.k t,gqmrimgmvnugvgfkzugwvzbrisovzgyszra ribrklgkpgbmurzgkql,gakfubrfua
zupsaugbkgk.utgfu,grpgRgulykrlgbmufgvgluiuaavztgauznriugvbgvgiuzbvrl
mkszjggBmragbtzvllrivogvl gikfwsoarnugvwwkrlbfulbg.vppouagbmuf;gbmut
amzrlcgswgurbmuzgbmzksxmgpuvzgkzgawrbu,gvl gpvoogrlbkgvgbzvliujgg.urlx
kliugrlgvgwoviugqmuzugrbgragokkcu gswklgvag.vz.vzksag raikszbuatglkbgbk
wou xugbmkaugqmkg zrlcgbkgtks,gbmksxmgRgmv gbmuzugvoogor.uzbtgvookqu gfu,
Rgbzru gbkgwovtgbmugxkk gpuookq,gksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgbmugov ruagqmkgquzu
bmuzu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugisabkfgkpgbmugikslbzt;g.sbgbmuzugqvagawkzbgulksxm
pkzgbmragwzuaaszugvl gwzuwvzvbrkl,gbkgpkziugftauopgiklbzvztgbkgftgisabkf
vl grliorlvbrkl,gakgabkwwu gftgbmzkvbgbmvbgRgikso glkbgaqvookqgklug zkw,
vl gqvag uwzrnu gkpg zrlcrlxgakgfsimgvagqrbmgftgfuvb;gRgpksl gftauop
xkzxu ,gvl gft,gbmrzabgesulimu g.tgbmugesvlbrbtgkpg zrlcgbmvbgft
rfvxrlvbrklgmv gaqvookqu jggBmraguppuibgragfkabgfvlrpuabgrlgasimgvagmvnu
bmugfkabgnumufulbgvl gwkquzpsogrfvxrlvbrkl:g.sbgrbgraglvbszvo,
lkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvl gbmuzugraglkgklugqmkg kuaglkbgrlgakfugfuvaszugpuuo
rbjggBmutgkppuzu gvlguhiuooulbgvzimuz,gikl uflu gbkg ru,gbkgavnugmra
orpu,grpgmugqkso gamkqgakfuglkbv.ougwzkkpgkpgmragvzb,g.sbgmugzupsau gbk
bzt,gpuvzrlxgouabgbmugbkkgxzuvbgiklbulbrklgkpgmragqroogamkso gfvcugmrf
amkkbgqr u,gvl gbmvbgrlabuv gkpgavnrlxgmragorpu,gmugamkso gvoakgokaugbmu
zuwsbvbrklgmugmv gxkbgkpg.urlxgvgxkk gfvzcafvljggVgfvlgqmkgbmrlcagkp
akfubmrlxguoau,gqrooglkbgpvrogbkgbvcugknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrlgbmugavfuglsf.uz
vl gfuvaszugkpgabuwa,gunulgbkgvlgrlim,grlgbmugwoviugqmuzugmugqvoca;g.sb
rpgmugfv ugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgfuvaszugvl gikslbgbmuf,gmugqroogprl gbmvb
qmvbgmug r g.tglvbszugvl gviir ulb,gmugivllkbgakguhvibotg kg.tg uarxlj

Ftgor.zvzt,gqmrimgragvgprlugklugvfklxgbmkaugkpgbmugnroovxugbtwu,gra
arbsvbu grlgvgikzluzgkpgftgmksau;grpgvltbmrlxgikfuagrlbkgftgmuv gbmvbgR
mvnugvgfrl gbkgauvzimgkzgbkgqzrbu,gouabgRgamkso gpkzxubgrbgrlg.sbgxkrlx
vizkaagbmugikszb,gRgvfgpvrlgbkgikffrbgrbgbkgbmugfufkztgkpgakfugkbmuzj
RpgRgnulbszugrlgawuvcrlxgbkg rxzuaaglunuzgakgorbbougpzkfgftgas.yuib,gRgvf
rlpvoor.otgokab,gqmrimgragbmugzuvaklgbmvbgRgcuuwgftauop,grlg raikszau,
abzribotgiokaujggRgvfgpkziu gbkgivoogbmugfulgqmkgauznugfugurbmuzg.tgbmu
lvfuagkpgbmurzgkppriuagkzgbmurzgikslbzt;gpkzglvfuagvzugnuztgmvz gpkzgfu
bkgzufuf.uzjggRgivlgbuoogrl uu gbmvbgbmuzugvzugbmzuugatoov.oua,gbmvbgrb
mvagvgmvzamgaksl ,gvl gbmvbgrbg.uxrlagkzgul agqrbmgasimgvgoubbuz;g.sb
bmvb’agvoo;gvl grpgRgamkso gornugoklx,gRg kglkbg ks.bg.sbgRgamkso gpkzxub
ftgkqlglvfu,gvagakfugkbmuzagmvnug klujggFuaavovgIkznrlsagqvagbqkgtuvza
qrbmksbgvltgbzviugkpgfufkzt,gqmrimgragvoakgavr gkpgXukzxrsagBzvwudslbrsaj
Pkzgftgkqlgrlbuzuab,gRgkpbulgfu rbvbugqmvbgvgcrl gkpgorpugbmurzagqva,gvl 
rp,gqrbmksbgbmragpvisobt,gRgamkso gmvnugulksxmgoupbgbkgaswwkzbgfugqrbm
vltgfvlluzgkpguvau;gvl gwztrlxglvzzkqotgrlbkgrb,gRgpuvzgbmvbgbmra
wzrnvbrkl,grpgv.akosbu,g uabzktagvoogbmugkbmuzgpslibrklagkpgbmugakso:

gggggggggg“Woulsagzrfvzsfgasf,gmvigvbesugrorvigwuzposkj”

gggggggggg[“R’fgpsoogkpgimrlca,gvl gouvcgksbgunuztgqvtj”
ggggggggggg--Buzj,gUslsimsa,grrjg2,g23j]

Rbgmvag.upvooulgfugfkzugbmvlgkliugbkgpkzxubgbmugqvbimqkz gRgmv gbmzuu
mkszag.upkzugxrnulgkzgzuiurnu ,gvl gbkgpkzxubgqmuzugRgmv gmr  ulgft
wszau;gqmvbunuzgIriuzkgragwouvau gbkgavt,gRgmuowgftauopgbkgokaugqmvbgR
mvnugvgwvzbrisovzgivzugbkgokicgavpugsw:

gggggggggg“Fufkzrvgiuzbuglklgfk kgWmrokakwmrvfgau gkflra
ggggggggggnrbvugsasf,gkfluaesugvzbua,gslvgfvhrfugiklbrlubj”

ggggg[“Rbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgfufkztgiklbvrlaglkbgklotgwmrokakwmt,
ggggg.sbgvoogbmugvzbagvl gvoogbmvbgvwwuzbvrlgbkgbmugsaugkpgorpuj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg7j]

Fufkztgragbmugzuiuwbviougvl givaugkpgairuliu:gvl gbmuzupkzugfrlug.urlxgak
bzuvimuzksa,grpgRgclkqgorbbou,gRgivllkbgfsimgikfwovrljggRgclkq,grl
xuluzvo,gbmuglvfuagkpgbmugvzba,gvl gkpgqmvbgbmutgbzuvb,g.sbglkbmrlxgfkzuj
Rgbszlgknuzg.kkca;gRg kglkbgabs tgbmufjggQmvbgRgzubvrlgRglkgoklxuz
zuikxlraugvagvlkbmuz’a;g‘bragklotgqmvbgftgys xfulbgmvagfv ugrbagv nvlbvxu
kp,gbmug raikszauagvl grfvxrlvbrklagrlgqmrimgrbgmvag.uulgrlabzsibu :gbmu
vsbmkz,gwoviu,gqkz a,gvl gkbmuzgirzisfabvliua,gRgrffu rvbuotgpkzxub;gvl 
Rgvfgakguhiuooulbgvbgpkzxubbrlx,gbmvbgRglkgouaagpkzxubgftgkqlgqzrbrlxa
vl gikfwkarbrklagbmvlgbmugzuabjggRgvfgnuztgkpbulgeskbu gbkgftauop,gvl gvf
lkbgvqvzugkpgrbjggQmkunuzgamkso grlesrzugkpgfugqmuzugRgmv gbmugnuzauagvl 
uhvfwoua,gbmvbgRgmvnugmuzugms  ou gbkxubmuz,gqkso gwsddougfugbkgbuoogmrf,
vl gtubgRgmvnuglkbg.kzzkqu gbmufg.sbgpzkfgpvfksagvl gclkqlgvsbmkza,glkb
iklbulbrlxgftauopgbmvbgbmutgquzugzrim,grpgR,gfkzuknuz,gmv gbmufglkbgpzkf
zrimgvl gmklkszv.ougmvl a,gqmuzugbmuzugragvgikliszzuliugkpgvsbmkzrbtgqrbm
zuvakljggRbgraglkgxzuvbgqkl uzgrpgftg.kkcgzslgbmugavfugpkzbslugbmvbgkbmuz
.kkcag k,grpgftgfufkztgokaugqmvbgRgmvnugqzrbbulgvagquoogvagqmvbgRgmvnu
zuv ,gvl gqmvbgRgxrnu,gvagquoogvagqmvbgRgzuiurnuj

.uar uagbmug upuibgkpgfufkzt,gRgmvnugkbmuzagqmrimgnuztgfsimgiklbzr.sbugbk
ftgrxlkzvliu;gRgmvnugvgaokqgvl gmuvntgqrb,gbmugouvabgioks gabkwagrba
wzkxzuaa,gakgbmvb,gpkzguhvfwou,gRglunuzgwzkwkaugbkgrbgvltglunuzgakguvatgv
zr  ougbmvbgrbgikso gprl gksb;gbmuzugraglkbgbmugouvabgr ougas.boubtgbmvb
qrooglkbgxzvnuogfu;grlgxvfua,gqmuzugqrbgragzuesrzu ,gvagimuaa,g zvsxmba,
vl gbmugorcu,gRgsl uzabvl glkgfkzugbmvlgbmugikffklgfknufulbajggRgmvnugv
aokqgvl gwuzwouhu gvwwzumularkl,g.sbgqmvbgrbgkliugvwwzumul a,grb
vwwzumul agquoo,gpkzgbmugbrfugrbgzubvrlagrbjggFtgarxmbgragwuzpuib,
ulbrzu,gvl g raiknuzagvbgvgnuztgxzuvbg rabvliu,g.sbgragakklgquvztgvl 
muvntgvbgqkzc,gqmrimgkiivarklagbmvbgRgivllkbgzuv goklx,g.sbgvfgpkziu gbk
mvnugklugbkgzuv gbkgfujggBmugtkslxuzgWorltggivlgrlpkzfgasimgvagmvnuglkb
uhwuzrfulbu grbgbmufauonua,gmkqgrfwkzbvlbgvlgrfwu rfulbgbmragragbkgbmkau
qmkg unkbugbmufauonuagbkgbmragufwoktfulbj

Bmuzugraglkgakgqzubimu gvl gikvzaugvgakso,gqmuzurlgakfugwvzbrisovz
pvisobtgraglkbgauulgbkgamrlu;glkgaksogakg.szru grlgaokbmgvl grxlkzvliu,
.sbgrbgqroogavootgvbgklugul gkzgvlkbmuz;gvl gmkqgrbgikfuagbkgwvaagbmvbgv
fvlg.orl gvl gvaouuwgbkgunuztbmrlxguoau,gamvoog.ugpksl gawzrxmbot,giouvz,
vl guhiuooulbgrlgakfugklugwvzbrisovzguppuib,gqugvzugbkgrlesrzugkpgksz
fvabuza:g.sbgbmug.uvsbrpsogaksoagvzugbmutgbmvbgvzugslrnuzavo,gkwul,gvl 
zuv tgpkzgvoogbmrlxa;grpglkbgrlabzsibu ,gvbgouvabgivwv.ougkpg.urlxgak;
qmrimgRgavtgbkgviisaugftgkql;gpkzgqmubmuzgrbg.ugbmzksxmgrlprzfrbtgkz
luxorxuliug(vl gbkgluxouibgbmvbgqmrimgoruagvbgkszgpuub,gqmrimgqugmvnugrl
kszgmvl a,gvl gqmvbgluvzuabgikliuzlagbmugsaugkpgorpu,gragpvzgpzkfgft
 kibzrlu)gbmuzugraglkbgvgaksogrlgbmugqkzo gakgvqcqvz gvagfrlu,gvl gak
rxlkzvlbgkpgfvltgikffklgbmrlxa,gvl gasimgvagvgfvlgivllkbgqrbmksbgamvfu
pvrogbkgclkqjggRgfsabgxrnugakfuguhvfwouaj

Rgqvag.kzlgvl g.zu gswgrlgbmugikslbzt,gvl gvfklxabgmsa.vl ful;gRgmvnugmv 
.sarluaagvl gmsa.vl ztgrlgftgkqlgmvl agunuzgarliugftgwzu uiuaakza,gqmk
quzugokz agkpgbmuguabvbugRglkqgulykt,goupbgfugbkgasiiuu gbmuf;gvl gtubgR
ivlglurbmuzgivabgviikslba,glkzgzuicklgftgikslbuza:gfkabgkpgkszgiszzulb
fklutgRg kglkbgclkq,glkzgbmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgklugxzvrlgvl gvlkbmuz,
urbmuzgxzkqrlxgkzgrlgbmug.vzl,grpgrbg.uglkbgbkkgvwwvzulb,gvl gaivziuot
ivlg rabrlxsramg.ubquulgbmugiv..vxugvl goubbsiugrlgftgxvz uljggRg kglkb
akgfsimgvagsl uzabvl gbmuglvfuagkpgbmugimrupgrlabzsfulbagkpgmsa.vl zt,
lkzgbmugfkabgkz rlvztguoufulbagkpgvxzrisobszu,gqmrimgbmugnuztgimro zul
clkq:gfsimgouaagbmugfuimvlrigvzba,gbzvppri,gfuzimvl rau,gbmugnvzrubtgvl 
lvbszugkpgpzsrba,gqrlua,gvl gnrvl a,glkzgmkqgbkgfvcugvgmvqcgpot,glkzgbk
wmtarigvgmkzaugkzgvg kxjggVl ,garliugRgfsabgws.oramgftgqmkougamvfu,g‘bra
lkbgv.knugvgfklbmgvxk,gbmvbgRgqvagbzvwwu grlgftgrxlkzvliugkpgbmugsaugkp
ouvnulgbkgfvcug.zuv ,gkzgbkgqmvbgul grbgqvagbkgcuuwgqrlugrlgbmugnvbj
Bmutgiklyuibszu gkpgko gvbgVbmula,ggvlgvwbrbs ugpkzgbmugfvbmufvbriagrl
mrfgbmutgavqgrlxulrksaotg.vnrlgswgvg.szbmulgkpg.zsamqkk jggRlguvzluab,
bmutgqkso g zvqgvgesrbugiklbzvztgikliosarklgpzkfgfu,gpkzgxrnugfugbmu
qmkougwzknrarklgvl gluiuaavzruagkpgvgcrbimul,gRgamkso gabvznujgg.tgbmuau
puvbszuagkpgftgiklpuaarklgfulgfvtgrfvxrlugkbmuzagbkgftgwzuys riu:g.sb
qmvbunuzgRg uornuzgftauopgbkg.u,gwzknr u grbg.ugasimgvagRgzuvootgvf,
Rgmvnugftgul ;glurbmuzgqroogRgfvcugvltguhisaugpkzgikffrbbrlxgbkgwvwuz
asimgfuvlgvl gpzrnkoksagbmrlxagvagbmuau:gbmugfuvlluaagkpgbmugas.yuib
ikfwuooagfugbkgrbjggBmutgfvt,grpgbmutgwouvau,gviisaugftgwzkyuib,g.sbglkb
ftgwzkxzuaa:gakgrbgra,gbmvbgqrbmksbgvlt.k t’agluu rlxgbkgbuoogfu,gR
aspprirulbotgauugkpgmkqgorbbougqurxmbgvl gnvosugvoogbmragra,gvl gbmu
pkootgkpgftg uarxl:g‘bragulksxmgbmvbgftgys xfulbg kuaglkbgiklbzv rib
rbauop,gkpgqmrimgbmuaugvzugbmuguaavtaj

gggggggggggggg“Lvasbsagaragsaesugoriub,garag ulresuglvasa,
gggggggggggggggEsvlbsfglkosuzrbgpuzzugzkxvbsagVbova;
gggggggggggggggUbgwkaaragrwasfgbkg uzr uzugOvbrlsf,
gggggggggggggggLklgwkbuagrlglsxvag riuzugwoszvgfuaa,
gggggggggggggggRwauguxkgesvfg rhr:gesr g ulbufg ulbugysnv.rb
gggggggggggggggZk uzu?ggivzlugkwsaguab,gargavbszguaaugnuoraj
gggggggggggggggLugwuz vagkwuzvf;gesrgaugfrzvlbsz,grlgrooka
gggggggggggggggNrzsagmv.u;glkagmvuiglknrfsaguaauglrmroj”

ggggg[“Oubgtkszglkaug.ugvagcuulgvagrbgqroo,g.ugvooglkau,gvl gunulgvglkau
gggggakgxzuvbgbmvbgVbovagqroogzupsaugbkg.uvzgrb:grpgvacu ,gIkso gtksgunul
ggggguhiuogOvbrlsagrlgaikpprlx;gvxvrlabgftgbzrpouagtksgikso gavtglkgfkzu
gggggbmvlgRgftauopgmvnugavr :gbmulgbkgqmvbgul giklbul gbkkbmgvxvrlab
gggggbkkbm?ggTksgfsabgmvnugpouam,grpgtksgqvlbgbkg.ugpsoo;gokauglkbgtksz
gggggov.kszgbmul;givabgtkszgnulkfgswklgbmkaugbmvbgv frzugbmufauonua;gR
gggggclkqgvozuv tgbmvbgbmuaugbmrlxagvzugqkzbmouaaj”--Fvzbj,ghrrrjg2j]

Rgvfglkbgk.orxu glkbgbkgsbbuzgv.asz rbrua,gwzknr u gRgvfglkbg uiurnu grl
bmufgvl gclkqgbmufgbkg.ugasim:gvl gbkgbzrwgclkqrlxot,gragakgkz rlvztgqrbm
fu,gbmvbgRgauo kfg kgrbgkbmuzqrau,gvl gzvzuotgbzrwg.tgimvliujgg‘Braglk
xzuvbgfvbbuzgbkgv  gzr risoksagvibrklagbkgbmugbufuzrbtgkpgftgmsfksz,
arliugRgivllkbgkz rlvzrotgmuowgaswwotrlxgrbgqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgvzugnrirksaj

Rgqvagwzuaulbgklug vtgvbg.vzou si,ggqmulgCrlxgPzvliragRRj,gpkzgvgfufkzrvo
kpgZulu,gcrlxgkpgArirot,gqvagwzuaulbu gqrbmgvgwkzbzvrbgmugmv g zvqlgkp
mrfauop:gqmtgragrbglkbgrlgorcugfvlluzgovqpsogpkzgunuztgklugbkg zvq
mrfauopgqrbmgvgwul,gvagmug r gqrbmgvgizvtkl?ggRgqrooglkb,gbmuzupkzu,gkfrb
bmrag.ouframgbmksxmgnuztgslprbgbkg.ugws.oramu ,gqmrimgragrzzuakosbrkl;gv
nuztgxzuvbguppuibgvl gnuztgrlikffk rksagrlgbmugluxkbrvbrklagkpgbmu
vppvrzagkpgbmugqkzo ;grlg ks.bpsogulbuzwzraua,gRgclkqglkbgqmrimgbk
imkkau:

ggggggggggggggg“Lugar,gluglk,gluogikzgfrgasklvgrlbuzkj”

ggggg[“Ftgmuvzbg kuaglkbgbuoogfugurbmuzgtuagkzglkj”--Wubzvzimj]

Rgivlgfvrlbvrlgvlgkwrlrkl,g.sbgRgivllkbgimkkaugklujgg.tgzuvaklgbmvbgrl
msfvlgbmrlxa,gbkgqmvbgauibgakunuzgqugrliorlu,gfvltgvwwuvzvliuagwzuaulb
bmufauonuagbmvbgiklprzfgsagrlgrb;gvl gbmugwmrokakwmuzgImztarwwsagavr ,
bmvbgmugqkso gkpgDulkgvl gIouvlbmua,gmragfvabuza,gouvzlgbmurzg kibzrlua
klot;gpkz,gvagbkgwzkkpagvl gzuvakla,gmugamkso gprl gulksxmgkpgmragkqlj
QmrimgqvtgakunuzgRgbszl,gRgabroogpszlramgftauopgqrbmgivsaua,gvl 
orcuormkk gulksxmgbkgprhgfugbmuzu;gqmrimgfvcuagfug ubvrlg ks.bgvl gbmu
or.uzbtgkpgimkkarlx,gbroogkiivarklgwzuaaua;gvl gbmul,gbkgiklpuaagbmu
bzsbm,gR,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbmzkqgbmugpuvbmuzgrlbkgbmugqrl ,gvagbmu
avtrlxgra,gvl gikffrbgftauopgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgpkzbslu;gvgnuztgorxmb
rliorlvbrklgvl girzisfabvliugivzzruagfugvoklxgqrbmgrbj

ggggggggg“ sfgrlg s.rkguabgvlrfsa,gwvsokgfkfulbkgmsigvbesu
ggggggggggRoosigrfwuoorbszj”

ggggg[“Qmrougbmugfrl gragrlg ks.b,grlgvgamkzbgbrfugrbgragrfwuoou gbmra
gggggqvtgvl gbmvbj”--Buzuliu,gVl zj,grjg6,g32j]

Bmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgftgys xfulbgragakguesvootg.vovliu grlgfkab
kiiszzuliua,gbmvbgRgikso gqroorlxotgzupuzgrbgbkg.ug uir u g.tgbmugimvliu
kpgvg ru:gvl gRgk.auznu,gqrbmgxzuvbgiklar uzvbrklgkpgkszgmsfvlgrlprzfrbt,
bmuguhvfwouagbmvbgbmug rnrlugmrabkztgrbauopgmvagoupbgsagkpgbmragisabkfgkp
zupuzzrlxgbkgpkzbslugvl gimvliugbmug ubuzfrlvbrklgkpguouibrklgrlg ks.bpso
bmrlxa:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Akzagiuir rbgaswuzgFvbbmrvfj”

ggggggggggggggg[“BmugokbgpuoogswklgFvbbmuqj”--Vibagrjg26j]

Msfvlgzuvaklgragvgbqk-u xu gvl g vlxuzksagaqkz :gk.auznugrlgbmugmvl agkp
Akizvbua,gmuzgfkabgrlbrfvbugvl gpvfrorvzgpzrul ,gmkqgfvltgaunuzvogwkrlba
rbgmvajggRgvfgbmsagxkk gpkzglkbmrlxg.sbgbkgpkookqgvl gasppuzgftauopgbkg.u
uvarotgivzzru gvqvtgqrbmgbmugizkq ;gRgmvnuglkbgiklpr uliugulksxmgrlgft
kqlgabzulxbmgbkgbvcugswklgfugbkgikffvl gvl gouv ;gRgvfgnuztgxov gbkgprl 
bmugqvtg.uvbulg.upkzugfug.tgkbmuzajggRpgRgfsabgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgvl
sliuzbvrlgimkriu,gRgvfgzvbmuzgqroorlxgbkgmvnugrbgsl uzgasimgvgklugvagra
fkzugiklpr ulbgrlgmragkwrlrklagbmvlgRgvfgrlgfrlu,gqmkaugxzksl gvl 
pksl vbrklgRgprl gbkg.ugnuztgaorwwuztgvl gslaszuj

TubgRg kglkbguvarotgimvlxu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgRg raiuzlgbmugavfugquvcluaagrl
iklbzvztgkwrlrkla:

ggggggggggggggg“Rwavgiklasubs kgvaaulbrul rgwuzrisokav
ggggggggggggggguaaugnr ubsz,gubgos.zriv;”

gggggggggg[“Bmugnuztgisabkfgkpgvaaulbrlxgauufagbkg.ug vlxuzksa
ggggggggggvl gaorwwuztj”--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg21j]

uawuirvootgrlgwkorbrivogvppvrza,gbmuzugragvgovzxugpruo gkwulgpkzgimvlxua
vl giklbuabvbrkl:

ggggggggg“Ysabvgwvzrgwzufrbszgnuosbrgisfgwkl uzugor.zv,
ggggggggggWzklv,gluigmvigwosagwvlugau ub,gluigaszxrbgv.groovj”

ggggg[“Vagvgysabg.vovliu,gwzuaau gqrbmguesvogqurxmb,glurbmuzg rwa
ggggglkzgzrauagklgurbmuzgar uj”--Br.soosa,grnjg41j]

Fvimrvnuoor’agqzrbrlxa,gpkzguhvfwou,gquzugakor gulksxmgpkzgbmugas.yuib,
tubgquzugbmutguvatgulksxmgbkg.ugiklbzknuzbu ;gvl gbmutgqmkgmvnug klugak,
mvnugoupbgvagxzuvbgvgpvirorbtgkpgiklbzknuzbrlxgbmurza;gbmuzugqvaglunuz
qvlbrlxgrlgbmvbgcrl gkpgvzxsfulbgzuworuagvl gzuworuagswklgzuworua,gvl gva
rlprlrbugvgiklbuhbszugkpg u.vbuagvagkszgqzvlxorlxgovqtuzagmvnuguhbul u 
rlgpvnkszgkpgoklxgasrba:

gggggggggg“Ivu rfszgubgbkbr ufgwovxragiklasfrfsagmkabuf;”

ggggg[“Qugvzugaovrl,gvl gqrbmgvagfvltg.okqagcroogbmuguluft”g(kz),
ggggg“Rbgragvgprxmbgqmuzurlgquguhmvsabguvimgkbmuzg.tgfsbsvogqksl aj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwrabj,grrjg2,g97j]

bmugzuvaklagmvnugorbbougkbmuzgpksl vbrklgbmvlguhwuzruliu,gvl gbmugnvzrubt
kpgmsfvlgunulbagwzuaulbrlxgsagqrbmgrlprlrbuguhvfwouagkpgvoogakzbagkp
pkzfajggVlgsl uzabvl rlxgwuzaklgkpgkszgbrfuagavta:gBmvbgqmkunuzgqkso ,grl
iklbzv ribrklgbkgkszgvofvlvia,gqzrbugiko gqmuzugbmutgavtgmkb,gvl gqub
qmuzugbmutgavtg zt,gvl gvoqvtagwsbgbmugiklbzvztgbkgqmvbgbmutgpkzubuoo;grp
mugquzugbkgovtgvgqvxuz,gmugqkso glkbgivzugqmrimgar ugmugbkkc,guhiuwbrlx
qmuzuglkgsliuzbvrlbtgikso gpvoogksb,gvagbkgwzkfrauguhiuaarnugmuvbagvb
Imzrabfva,gkzguhbzufrbtgkpgiko gvbgFr asffuzjggRgmvnugbmugavfugkwrlrklgkp
bmuaugwkorbrivogiklbzknuzarua;g.ugklgqmrimgar ugtksgqroo,gtksgmvnugva
pvrzgvgxvfugbkgwovtgvagtkszgv nuzavzt,gwzknr u gtksg kglkbgwzkiuu gakgpvz
vagbkgamkicgwzrlirwouagbmvbgvzug.zkv gvl gfvlrpuabjggVl gtub,grlgft
ikliurb,grlgws.origvppvrza,gbmuzugraglkgxknuzlfulbgakgroo,gwzknr u grbg.u
vlirulbgvl gmvag.uulgiklabvlb,gbmvbgraglkbg.ubbuzgbmvlgimvlxugvl 
vobuzvbrklj

Kszgfvlluzagvzugrlprlrbuotgikzzswb,gvl gqkl uzpsootgrliorlugbkgbmugqkzau;
kpgkszgovqagvl gisabkfagbmuzugvzugfvltgbmvbgvzug.vz.vzksagvl gfklabzksa
lunuzbmuouaa,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmug rpprisobtgkpgzupkzfvbrkl,gvl gbmug vlxuz
kpgabrzzrlxgbmrlxa,grpgRgikso gwsbgakfubmrlxgsl uzgbkgabkwgbmugqmuuo,gvl 
cuuwgrbgqmuzugrbgra,gRgqkso g kgrbgqrbmgvoogftgmuvzb:

gggggggggggggg“Lsfesvfgv ukgpku ra,gv ukesugws ul ra
gggggggggggggggSbrfszguhufwora,gsbglklgwuykzvgaswuzarlbj”

gggggggggg[“Bmuguhvfwouagqugsaugvzuglkbgakgamvfupsogvl gpkso
gggggggggg.sbgbmvbgqkzaugzufvrlg.umrl j”--Ysnulvo,gnrrrjg183j]

BmugqkzabgbmrlxgRgprl grlgkszgabvbugragrlabv.rorbt,gvl gbmvbgkszgovqa,
lkgfkzugbmvlgkszgiokbmua,givllkbgaubbougrlgvltgiuzbvrlgpkzfjggRbgragnuzt
uvatgbkgviisaugvgxknuzlfulbgkpgrfwuzpuibrkl,gpkzgvoogfkzbvogbmrlxagvzu
psoogkpgrb:grbgragnuztguvatgbkg.uxubgrlgvgwukwougvgiklbufwbgkpgvlirulb
k.auznvliua;glunuzgvltgfvlgsl uzbkkcgrbg.sbgmug r grb;g.sbgbkguabv.oramgv
.ubbuzgzuxrfulgrlgbmugabuv gkpgbmvbgqmrimgvgfvlgmvagknuzbmzkql,gfvltgqmk
mvnugvbbufwbu grbgmvnugpksl uzu jggRgnuztgorbbougiklasobgftgwzs uliugrl
ftgikl sib;gRgvfgqroorlxgbkgoubgrbg.ugxsr u g.tgbmugws.origzsoujggMvwwt
bmugwukwougqmkg kgqmvbgbmutgvzugikffvl u ,g.ubbuzgbmvlgbmutgqmkgikffvl ,
qrbmksbgbkzfulbrlxgbmufauonuagvagbkgbmugivsaua;gqmkgasppuzgbmufauonua
xulbotgbkgzkoogvpbuzgbmugiuouabrvogzunkosbrkl!ggK.u ruliugraglunuzgwszu
lkzgivofgrlgmrfgqmkgzuvaklagvl g rawsbuaj

Rlgprlu,gbkgzubszlgbkgftauop:gbmugklotgbmrlxg.tgqmrimgRgakfubmrlxguabuuf
ftauop,gragbmvbgqmuzurlglunuzgvltgfvlgbmksxmbgmrfauopgbkg.ug upuibrnu;gft
zuikfful vbrklgragnsoxvz,gikffkl,gvl gwkwsovz;gpkzgqmkgunuzgbmksxmbgmu
qvlbu gaulau?ggRbgqkso g.ugvgwzkwkarbrklgbmvbgqkso grfwotgvgiklbzv ribrkl
rlgrbauop;g‘bragvg rauvaugbmvbglunuzgragqmuzugrbgrag raiuzlu ;g‘bra
bulvirksagvl gabzklx,g.sbgqmvbgbmugprzabgzvtgkpgbmugwvbrulb’agarxmb
lunuzbmuouaagwruziuagbmzksxmgvl g rawuzaua,gvagbmug.uvfagkpgbmugaslg k
bmricgvl gk.aiszugfraba;gbkgviisaugklu’agauopgqkso g.ugbkguhisaugrlgbmra
ivau,gvl gbkgikl ufl,gbkgv.akonujggBmuzuglunuzgqvagwkzbuzgkzgbmugarooruab
xrzo,gbmvbg r glkbgbmrlcgbmutgmv gaulaugulksxmgbkg kgbmurzg.sarluaaj
Quguvarotgulksxmgiklpuaagrlgkbmuzagvlgv nvlbvxugkpgikszvxu,gabzulxbm,
uhwuzruliu,gvibrnrbt,gvl g.uvsbt,g.sbgvlgv nvlbvxugrlgys xfulbgqugtruo 
bkglklu;gvl gbmugzuvaklagbmvbgwzkiuu garfwotgpzkfgbmuglvbszvogikliosarkla
kpgkbmuza,gqugbmrlc,grpgqugmv g.sbgbszlu gkszgbmksxmbagbmvbgqvt,gqu
amkso gkszauonuagmvnugpksl gksbgvagquoogvagbmutjggClkqou xu,gabtou,gvl 
asimgwvzbagvagqugauugrlgkbmuza’gqkzca,gqugvzugakklgvqvzugkp,grpgbmut
uhiuogkszgkql:g.sbgpkzgbmugarfwougwzk sibagkpgbmugsl uzabvl rlx,gunuzt
klugbmrlcagmugikso gmvnugpksl gksbgbmugorcugrlgmrfauop,gvl gragmvz ot
aular.ougkpgbmugqurxmbgvl g rpprisobt,grpglkbg(vl gbmulgqrbmgfsimgv k)grl
vlguhbzufugvl grlikfwvzv.oug rabvliujggVl gqmkunuzgamkso g.ugv.ougiouvzot
bkg raiuzlgbmugmurxmbgkpgvlkbmuz’agys xfulb,gqkso g.ugvoakgv.ougbkgzvrau
mragkqlgbkgbmugavfugwrbimjggAkgbmvbgrbgragvgakzbgkpguhuzirau,gpzkfgqmrim
vgfvlgragbkguhwuibgnuztgorbbougwzvrau;gvgcrl gkpgikfwkarbrklgkpgafvoo
zuwsbujggVl ,g.uar ua,gpkzgqmkfg kgtksgqzrbu?ggBmugouvzlu ,gbkgqmkfgbmu
vsbmkzrbtgvwwuzbvrlagkpgys xrlxg.kkca,gclkqglkgkbmuzgnvosug.sbgbmvbgkp
ouvzlrlx,gvl gvookqgkpglkgkbmuzgwzkiuu rlxgkpgqrbg.sbgbmvbgkpguzs rbrkl
vl gvzb:grpgtksgmvnugfrabvculgklugkpgbmugAirwrkagpkzgvlkbmuz,gqmvbgragvoo
bmugzuabgtksgmvnugbkgavtgqkzbm?ggQmkunuzgragrxlkzvlbgkpgVzrabkbou,
viikz rlxgbkgbmurzgzsou,gragrlgakfugakzbgrxlkzvlbgkpgmrfauop;gnsoxvz
aksoagivllkbg raiuzlgbmugxzviugvl gpkziugkpgvgokpbtgvl g uorivbugabtouj
Lkqgbmuaugbqkgakzbagkpgfulgbvcugswgbmugqkzo jggBmugbmrz gakzbgrlbkgqmkau
mvl agtksgpvoo,gkpgaksoagbmvbgvzugzuxsovzgvl gabzklxgkpgbmufauonua,gragak
zvzu,gbmvbgrbgysabotgmvaglurbmuzglvfuglkzgwoviugvfklxabgsa;gvl g‘bragak
fsimgbrfugokabgbkgvawrzugslbkgrb,gkzgbkgul uvnkszgbkgwouvaugrbj

‘Bragikffklotgavr gbmvbgbmugysabuabgwkzbrklgLvbszugmvagxrnulgsagkpgmuz
pvnkszagragbmvbgkpgaulau;gpkzgbmuzugraglkgklugqmkgraglkbgiklbulbu gqrbm
mragamvzu:gragrbglkbgzuvakl?gqmkunuzgamkso gauug.utkl gbmvb,gqkso gauu
.utkl gmragarxmbjggRgbmrlcgftgkwrlrklagvzugxkk gvl gaksl ,g.sbgqmkg kua
lkbgbmrlcgbmugavfugkpgmragkql?ggKlugkpgbmug.uabgwzkkpagRgmvnugbmvbgfrlu
vzugakgragbmugafvooguabuufgRgmvnugkpgftauop;gpkzgmv gbmutglkbg.uulgnuzt
quoogvaaszu ,gbmutgqkso guvarotgmvnugasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkgmvnug.uul
 uiurnu g.tgbmugwuisorvzgvppuibrklgRgmvnugbkgftauop,gvagklugbmvbgwoviua
rbgvofkabgqmkootgrlgftauop,gvl g kglkbgoubgfsimgzslgksbjggVoogbmvbgkbmuza
 rabzr.sbugvfklxabgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgpzrul agvl gviesvrlbvliu,gbk
bmurzgxokztgvl gxzvl usz,gRg u rivbugbkgbmugzuwkaugkpgftgkqlgfrl gvl gbk
ftauop;gbmvbgqmrimguaivwuagbmuliugraglkbgwzkwuzotg.tgftg rzuibrkl:

ggggggggggggggg“Frmrglufwugnvouzugubgnrnuzug kibsaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bkgornugvl gbkg kgquoogpkzgftauopj”
gggggggggggggggg--Osizubrsa,gnjg959j]

LkqgRgprl gftgkwrlrklagnuztg.ko gvl giklabvlbgrlgikl uflrlxgftgkql
rfwuzpuibrkljggVl ,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,g‘bragvgas.yuibgswklgqmrimgR
uhuziraugftgys xfulbgvagfsimgvagswklgvltgkbmuzjggBmugqkzo gokkcagvoqvta
kwwkarbu;gRgbszlgftgarxmbgrlqvz a,gvl gbmuzugprhgvl gufwoktgrbjggRgmvnu
lkgkbmuzg.sarluaag.sbgftauop,gRgvfgubuzlvootgfu rbvbrlxgswklgftauop,
iklar uzrlxgvl gbvabrlxgftauopjggKbmuzgful’agbmksxmbagvzugunuzgqvl uzrlx
v.zkv ,grpgbmutgqroog.sbgauugrb;gbmutgvzugabroogxkrlxgpkzqvz :

ggggggggggggggg“Lufkgrlgauaugbulbvbg uaiul uzu;”

gggggggggg[“Lkgklugbmrlcagkpg uaiul rlxgrlbkgmrfauopj”
ggggggggggg--Wuzarsa,grnjg23j]

pkzgftgwvzb,gRgirzisovbugrlgftauopjggBmragivwvirbtgkpgbztrlxgbmugbzsbm,
qmvbunuzgrbg.u,grlgftauop,gvl gbmragpzuugmsfkszgkpglkbgknuzguvarot
as.yuibrlxgftg.uorup,gRgkqugwzrlirwvootgbkgftauop;gpkzgbmugabzklxuabgvl 
fkabgxuluzvogrfvxrlvbrklagRgmvnugvzugbmkaugbmvb,gvagvgfvlgfvtgavt,gquzu
.kzlgqrbmgfu;gbmutgvzuglvbszvogvl gulbrzuotgftgkqljggRgwzk siu gbmuf
izs ugvl garfwou,gqrbmgvgabzklxgvl g.ko gwzk sibrkl,g.sbgvgorbbou
bzks.ou gvl grfwuzpuib;gRgmvnugarliuguabv.oramu gvl gpkzbrpru gbmufgqrbm
bmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgkbmuzagvl gbmugaksl guhvfwouagkpgbmugvlirulba,gqmkfgR
mvnugpksl gkpgbmugavfugys xfulb:gbmutgmvnugxrnulgfugpvabuzgmko ,gvl gv
fkzugfvlrpuabgpzsrbrklgvl gwkaauaarklgkpgbmvbgRgmv g.upkzuguf.zviu jggBmu
zuwsbvbrklgbmvbgunuztgklugwzubul agbkgkpgnrnvirbtgvl gwzkfwbluaagkpgqrb,
Rgauucgrlgzuxsovzrbt;gbmugxokztgbmutgwzubul gbkgpzkfgvgabzrcrlxgvl 
arxlvogvibrkl,gkzgakfugwvzbrisovzguhiuoouliu,gRgiovrfgpzkfgkz uz,
ikzzuawkl uliu,gvl gbzvlesroorbtgkpgkwrlrklagvl gfvlluza:

ggggg“Kflrlkgargesr esvfguabg uikzsf,glrmroguabgwzkpuibkgfvxra,gesvf
gggggvuesv.rorbvagslrnuzavugnrbvu,gbsfgarlxsovzsfgvibrklsf,gesvf
gggggiklauznvzuglklgwkaara,gar,gvorkzsfglvbszvfgrfrbvla,gkfrbbvagbsvfj”

ggggg[“Rpgvltbmrlxg.ugulbrzuotg uikzksa,glkbmrlxgiuzbvrlotgivlg.ugfkzugak
gggggbmvlgvlguesv.rorbtgvorcugrlgbmugqmkougorpugvl grlgunuztgwvzbrisovz
gggggvibrkl;gqmrimgbmksgivlabglkbgwkaar.otgk.auznugrp,grfrbvbrlxgkbmuz
gggggful’aglvbszua,gbmksgovtuabgvar ugbmtgkqlj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpj,grjg31j]

Muzu,gbmul,gtksgauugbkgqmvbg uxzuugRgprl gftauopgxsrobtgkpgbmragprzab
wvzb,gbmvbgRgavr gqvagbmugnriugkpgwzuasfwbrkljggVagbkgbmugauikl ,gqmrim
iklarabagrlglkbgmvnrlxgvgaspprirulbguabuufgpkzgkbmuza,gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuz
kzglkgRgivlgakgquooguhisaugftauop;g.sbgqmvbunuzgikfuagkl’bgRgvfgzuakonu 
bkgawuvcgbmugbzsbmjggVl gqmubmuz,gwuzv nulbszu,grbg.ugbmvbgbmugiklbrlsvo
pzuesulbvbrklgRgmvnugmv gqrbmgbmugmsfkszagkpgbmugvlirulba,gvl gbmugr uv
kpgbmkaugxzuvbgaksoagkpgwvabgvxua,gwsbgfugksbgkpgbvabug.kbmgqrbmgkbmuza
vl gftauop,gkzgbmvb,grlgbzsbm,gbmugvxugqugornugrlgwzk siuag.sbgnuzt
rl rppuzulbgbmrlxa,gtubgakgrbgragbmvbgRgauuglkbmrlxgqkzbmtgkpgvltgxzuvb
v frzvbrkljggLurbmuz,grl uu ,gmvnugRgakgxzuvbgvlgrlbrfvitgqrbmgfvltgful
vagragzuesrarbugbkgfvcugvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkpgbmuf;gvl gbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgft
ikl rbrklgfvcuagfugbmugfkabgpzuesulb,gvzu,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gfulgqmk
mvnugorbbougivzugkpgbmugisobszugkpgbmugakso,g.sbgbmvbgokkcgswklgmklkszgva
bmugasfgkpgvoog.ouaarlxa,gvl gnvokszgvagbmugmurxmbgkpgvoogwuzpuibrklj

QmvbgRgauugbmvbgragprlugrlgkbmuzagRgnuztgzuv rotgikfful gvl guabuuf:glvt,
Rgkpbulgavtgfkzugrlgbmurzgikfful vbrklgbmvlgRgbmrlcgbmutgzuvootg uauznu,
vl gxrnugftauopgakgpvzgouvnugbkgoru,gpkzgRgivllkbgrlnulbgvgpvoaugas.yuib:
ftgbuabrfkltgraglunuzgqvlbrlxgbkgftgpzrul agrlgqmvbgRgikliurnug uauznua
wzvrau,gvl gqmuzugvgpkkbgrag sugRgvfgqroorlxgbkgxrnugbmufgvgpkkbgvl gv
mvop;g.sbgbkgvbbzr.sbugbkgbmufgesvorbruagbmvbgbmutgmvnuglkb,gRgivllkbg k
rb,glkzgkwulotg upul gbmurzgrfwuzpuibrklajggLvt,gRgpzvlcotgxrnugftgnuzt
ulufruagbmurzg sugbuabrfkltgkpgmklksz;gftgvppuibrklgvobuza,gftgys xfulb
 kuaglkb,gvl gRglunuzgiklpksl gftgvlrfkarbtgqrbmgkbmuzgirzisfabvliuagbmvb
vzugpkzurxlgbkgrb;gvl gRgvfgakgyuvoksagkpgbmugor.uzbtgkpgftgys xfulbgbmvb
Rgivlgnuztgmvz otgwvzbgqrbmgrbgpkzgvltgwvaarklgqmvbunuzjggRg kgftauopgv
xzuvbuzgrlysztgrlgotrlxgbmvlgRg kgmrfgkpgqmkfgRgbuoogvgorujggBmra
ikfful v.ougvl gxuluzksagisabkfgragk.auznu gkpgbmugWuzarvlglvbrkl,gbmvb
bmutgawkcugkpgbmurzgfkzbvogulufruagvl gqrbmgqmkfgbmutgquzugvbg uv otgqvz,
vagmklkszv.otgvl gysabotgvagbmurzgnrzbsuag uauznu j

Rgclkqgfulgulksxmgbmvbgmvnugaunuzvogprlugwvzba;gklugqrb,gvlkbmuzgikszvxu,
vlkbmuzgv  zuaa,gvlkbmuzgiklairuliu,gvlkbmuzgovlxsvxu:gklugairuliu,
vlkbmuz,gvlkbmuz;g.sbgvgxuluzvootgxzuvbgfvl,gvl gqmkgmvagvoogbmuaug.zvnu
wvzbagbkxubmuz,gkzgvltgklugkpgbmufgbkgasimgvg uxzuugkpguhiuoouliugbmvbgqu
amkso gv frzugmrfgkzgikfwvzugmrfgqrbmgbmkaugqugmklkszgkpgbrfuagwvab,gft
pkzbsluglunuzg.zksxmbgfugviesvrlbu gqrbm;gvl gbmugxzuvbuabgRgunuzgcluq,gR
fuvlgpkzgbmuglvbszvogwvzbagkpgbmugakso,gqvagUbrullug ugovg.kubru;gmragqva
vgpsoogaksogrl uu ,gvl gbmvbgmv gunuztgqvtgvg.uvsbrpsogvawuib:gvgaksogkp
bmugko gabvfw,gvl gbmvbgmv gwzk siu gxzuvbguppuibagmv gmragpkzbslug.uul
akgwouvau ,gmvnrlxgv  u gfsimgbkgbmkaugxzuvbglvbszvogwvzbag.tgouvzlrlx
vl gabs tj

.sbgmkqgrbgikfuagbkgwvaagRgclkqglkb,gvl gtubgrbgragiuzbvrlotgak,gbmuzugra
vagfsimgnvlrbtgvl gquvcluaagkpgys xfulbgrlgbmkaugqmkgwzkpuaagbmugxzuvbuab
v.rorbrua,gqmkgbvcugswklgbmufgouvzlu givoorlxagvl g.kkcramgufwoktfulbagva
rlgvltgkbmuzgakzbgkpgfulgqmvbunuz;gurbmuzg.uivsaugfkzugragzuesrzu gvl 
uhwuibu gpzkfgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgikffklg upuibagvzuguhisav.ougrlgbmuf,gkz
.uivsaugbmugkwrlrklgbmutgmvnugkpgbmurzgkqlgouvzlrlxgfvcuagbmufgfkzug.ko 
bkguhwkaugvl govtgbmufauonuagbkkgkwul,g.tgqmrimgbmutgokaugvl g.ubzvt
bmufauonuajggVagvlgvzbrpriuzgfkzugfvlrpuabagmragqvlbgkpgacroogrlgvgzrim
fvbbuzgmugmvagrlgmvl ,grpgmug raxzviugbmugqkzcg.tgroogmvl orlxgvl 
iklbzvztgbkgbmugzsouagzuesrzu ,gbmvlgrlgvgfvbbuzgkpgouaagnvosu;gvl gful
vzugfkzug rawouvau gvbgvg rawzkwkzbrklgrlgvgabvbsugkpgxko gbmvlgrlgklugkp
wovabuz;gakg kgbmuaugqmulgbmutgv nvliugbmrlxagbmvbgrlgbmufauonuagvl grl
bmurzgwoviugqkso g.ugxkk ;gpkzgbmutgfvcugsaugkpgbmufgqrbmksbg raizubrkl,
mklkszrlxgbmurzgfufkzruagvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxa,gvl 
fvcrlxgbmufauonuagzr risoksag.tgmklkszrlxgIriuzk,gXvoul,gSowrvl,gvl gAbj
Yuzkfugvorcuj

Rgqroorlxotgpvoogvxvrlgrlbkgbmug raikszaugkpgbmugnvlrbtgkpgkszgu sivbrkl,
bmugul gkpgqmrimgraglkbgbkgzul uzgsagxkk gvl gqrau,g.sbgouvzlu ,gvl gamu
mvagk.bvrlu grbjggAmugmvaglkbgbvsxmbgsagbkgpkookqgvl guf.zviugnrzbsugvl 
wzs uliu,g.sbgamugmvagrfwzrlbu grlgsagbmurzg uzrnvbrklgvl gubtfkokxt;gqu
clkqgmkqgbkg uiorlugNrzbsu,grpgqugclkqglkbgmkqgbkgoknugrb;grpgqug kglkb
clkqgqmvbgwzs uliugragzuvootgvl grlguppuib,gvl g.tguhwuzruliu,gqugmvnugrb
mkqunuzg.tgyvzxklgvl gmuvzb:gqugvzuglkbgiklbulbgbkgclkqgbmuguhbzvibrkl,
crl zu ,gvl gvoorvliuagkpgkszglurxm.ksza;gqug uarzu,gfkzuknuz,gbkgmvnu
bmufgkszgpzrul agvl gbkguabv.oramgvgikzzuawkl uliugvl grlbuoorxuliugqrbm
bmuf;g.sbgbmragu sivbrklgkpgkszagmvagbvsxmbgsag uprlrbrkla,g rnrarkla,
vl gwvzbrbrklagkpgnrzbsu,gvagakgfvltgaszlvfuagvl g.zvlimuagkpgv
xuluvokxt,gqrbmksbgvltgpszbmuzgivzugkpguabv.oramrlxgvltgpvfrorvzrbtgkz
rlbrfvitg.ubqrhbgmuzgvl gsajggRbgmvagisoou gksbgpkzgkszgrlrbrvbkzt
rlabzsibrklglkbgasimg.kkcagvagiklbvrlgbmugaksl uabgvl gbzsuabgkwrlrkla,
.sbgbmkaugbmvbgawuvcgbmug.uabgXzuucgvl gOvbrl,gvl g.tgbmurzgprlugqkz a
mvagrlabroou grlbkgkszgpvlitgbmugnvrluabgmsfkszagkpgvlbresrbtj

Vgxkk gu sivbrklgvobuzagbmugys xfulbgvl gfvlluza;gvagrbgmvwwulu gbk
Wkoufkl,gvgouq gvl g u.vsimu gtkslxgXzuuc,gqmkgxkrlxg.tgimvliugbkgmuvz
klugkpgHulkizvbua’gouibszua,g r glkbgklotgk.auznugbmuguokesuliugvl 
ouvzlrlxgkpgbmugzuv uz,gvl glkbgklotg.zksxmbgvqvt,gbmugclkqou xugkpgakfu
prlugfvbbuz,g.sbgvgfkzugfvlrpuabgvl gfkzugakor gwzkprb,gqmrimgqvagbmu
as  ulgimvlxugvl gzupkzfvbrklgkpgmragpkzfuzgorpujggQmkunuzgpksl gasimgvl
uppuibgkpgkszg rairworlu?

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Pvirvalu,gesk gkorf
gggggggggggggggFsbvbsagWkoufkl?gwklvagrlarxlrvgfkz.r
gggggggggggggggPvairkova,gis.rbvo,gpkivorv;gwkbsagsbgroou
ggggggggggggggg rirbszguhgikookgpszbrfgivzwaraaugikzklva,
gggggggggggggggWkabesvfguabgrfwzvlargikzzuwbsagnkiugfvxrabzr?”

ggggg[“Qroogtksg kgqmvbgzupkzfu gWkoufklg r gkpgko ?gqroogtksgovtgvar u
gggggbmugyktagkpgtkszg rauvau,gtkszgxvzbuza,givwsimrl,gfsppouz,gvagmugrl
gggggmragiswagragavr gbkgmvnugauizubotgbkzlgkppgmragxvzovl agpzkfgmra
gggggluicgqmulgmugmuvz gqmvbgbmvbgbufwuzvbugbuvimuzgavr ?”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grrjg3,g253]

Bmvbgauufagbkgfugbkg.ugbmugouvabgiklbufwbr.ougikl rbrklgkpgful,gqmrimg.t
rbagwovrlluaagvl garfworirbtgragauvbu grlgbmugokquabg uxzuu,gvl grlnrbua
sagbkgvgfkzugzuxsovzgikszaujggRgprl gbmugzs ugfvlluzagvl govlxsvxugkp
ikslbztgwukwougikffklotg.ubbuzgasrbu gbkgbmugzsougvl gwzuaizrwbrklgkp
bzsugwmrokakwmt,gbmvlgbmkaugkpgkszgwmrokakwmuzagbmufauonua:

ggggg“Wosagavwrbgnsoxsa,gesrvgbvlbsf,gesvlbsfgkwsaguab,gavwrbj”

ggggg[“Bmugnsoxvzgvzugakgfsimgbmugqrauz,g.uivsaugbmutgklotgclkqgqmvb
gggggragluu psogpkzgbmufgbkgclkqj”--Ovibvlbfa,gRlabrbjg rnj,grrrjg5j]

Bmugfkabgzufvzcv.ougful,gvagRgmvnugys xu g.tgksbqvz gvwwuvzvliug(pkzgbk
ys xugkpgbmufgviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlgfubmk ,gRgfsabgwulubzvbugvgxzuvbg uvo
 uuwuz),gpkzgako ruzagvl gfrorbvztgikl sib,gquzugbmug sig ugXsrau,gqmk
 ru gvbgKzouvla,gvl gbmugovbugFvzamvogAbzkddr;gvl gpkzgfulgkpgxzuvb
v.rorbtgvl glkgikffklgnrzbsu,gKornruzgvl g ugo’Mkawrbvo,gImvliuookzagkp
PzvliujggWkubzt,gbkk,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gmvagpokszramu grlgbmragvxugkpgksza;
qugmvnugv.sl vliugkpgnuztgxkk gvzbrpriuzagrlgbmugbzv u:g ’Vszvb,g.udv,
.simvlvl,gO’Mkawrbvo,gFklb kzu,gBszlu.sa;gvagbkgbmugPzulimgwkuba,gR
.uorunugbmutgzvrau gbmurzgvzbgbkgbmugmrxmuabgwrbimgbkgqmrimgrbgivlgunuz
vzzrnu;gvl grlgbmkaugwvzbagkpgrbgqmuzurlgZklavz gvl g sg.uoovtguhiuo,gR
prl gbmufgorbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgbmugvlirulbgwuzpuibrkljggV zrvlgBszlu.sa
cluqgfkzu,gvl gqmvbgmug r gclkq,g.ubbuzgbmvlgvltgfvlgkpgmragbrfu,gkzgoklx
.upkzugmrfjggBmugornuagkpgbmugovabg scugkpgVonv,gvl gkpgkszgIklabv.oug u
Fklbfkzulit,gquzug.kbmgkpgbmufgxzuvbgvl glk.ou,gvl gbmvbgmv gfvltgzvzu
zuauf.ovliuagkpgpkzbslu;g.sbgbmug.uvsbtgvl gxokztgkpgbmug uvbmgkpgbmu
ovab,grlgbmugarxmbgkpgWvzragvl gkpgmragcrlx,grlgbmurzgauznriu,gvxvrlab
mragluvzuabgzuovbrkla,gvbgbmugmuv gkpgvlgvzftgbmzksxmgmragikl sib
nribkzrksa,gvl g.tgvgas  ulgabzkcu,grlgakguhbzufugko gvxu,gfuzrba
fubmrlcagbkg.ugzuikz u gvfklxabgbmugfkabgzufvzcv.ougunulbagkpgkszgbrfuaj
Vagvoakgbmugiklabvlbgxkk luaa,gaquubluaagkpgfvlluza,gvl giklairulbrksa
pvirorbtgkpgFklaruszg ugovgLksu,grlgakgxzuvbgvlgrlysabriugkpgvzfu 
wvzbruag(bmugbzsugaimkkogkpgbzuvakl,grlmsfvlrbt,gvl gzk..uzt),gqmuzurlgmu
voqvtagcuwbgswgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgvgxzuvbgvl guhwuzruliu givwbvrlj

Rgmvnugbvculgvg uorxmbgbkgws.oramgrlgaunuzvogwoviuagbmugmkwuagRgmvnugkp
Fvzrug ugXkszlvtgougYvza,

ggggg[Amugqvagv kwbu g.tgmrfgrlg1588jggAuugOuklgPusxuzu’agFv ufkrauoou
ggggg ugXkszlvt:g‘Ubs ugaszgavgNrugubgauagKsnzvxua’j]

ftgv kwbu g vsxmbuz;gvl giuzbvrlotg.uoknu g.tgfugfkzugbmvlgwvbuzlvoot,
vl gulnuokwu grlgftgzubrzufulbgvl gakorbs ugvagklugkpgbmug.uabgwvzbagkp
ftgkqlg.urlx:gRgmvnuglkgoklxuzgzuxvz gbkgvltbmrlxgrlgbmragqkzo g.sbgmuzj
Vl grpgvgfvlgfvtgwzuavxugpzkfgmuzgtksbm,gmuzgaksogqroogklug vtg.ugivwv.ou
kpgnuztgxzuvbgbmrlxa;gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,gkpgbmugwuzpuibrklgkpgbmvb
avizu gpzrul amrw,gbkgqmrimgqug kglkbgzuv gbmvbgvltgkpgmuzgauhgikso gunuz
tubgvzzrnu;gbmugarliuzrbtgvl gakor rbtgkpgmuzgfvlluzagvzugvozuv t
aspprirulbgpkzgrb,gvl gmuzgvppuibrklgbkqvz agfugfkzugbmvlgaswuzv.sl vlb,
vl gasim,grlgamkzb,gvagbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgfkzugbkg.ugqramu ,grpglkb
bmvbgbmugvwwzumularklgamugmvagkpgftgul ,g.urlxglkqgprnu-vl -prpbtgtuvza
ko ,gfrxmbglkbgakgfsimgvpporibgmuzjggBmugys xfulbgamugfv ugkpgftgprzab
Uaavta,g.urlxgvgqkfvl,gakgtkslx,gvl grlgbmragvxu,gvl gvoklugrlgmuzgkql
ikslbzt;gvl gbmugpvfksagnumufuliugqmuzuqrbmgamugoknu gfu,gvl g uarzu gft
viesvrlbvliugakouotgpzkfgbmuguabuufgamugmv gbmuliugkpgfu,g.upkzugamugunuz
avqgftgpviu,gragvlgrlir ulbgnuztgqkzbmtgkpgiklar uzvbrklj

Kbmuzgnrzbsuagmvnugmv gorbbougkzglkgizu rbgrlgbmragvxu;g.sbgnvokszgra
.uikfugwkwsovzg.tgkszgirnrogqvza;gvl grlgbmra,gqugmvnugaksoag.zvnugunul
bkgwuzpuibrkl,gvl grlgakgxzuvbglsf.uzgbmvbgbmugimkriugragrfwkaar.ougbk
fvcuj

Bmragragvoogkpguhbzvkz rlvztgvl gslikffklgxzvl uszgbmvbgmvagmrbmuzbk
vzzrnu gvbgftgclkqou xuj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgxuluzksagmuvzbgksxmbglkbgbkg.uorugrbagkqlgbmksxmba
gggggVgfvlgfvtgwovtgbmugpkkogrlgunuztbmrlxguoau,g.sbglkbgrlgwkubzt
gggggVxvrlabgftgbzrpouagtksgikso gavtglkgfkzugbmvlgRgftauopgmvnugavr 
gggggVxrbvbu g.ubqrhbgmkwugvl gpuvz
gggggVoog upuliugamkqagvgpviugkpgqvz
gggggVofvlvia
gggggVlgv nvlbvxugrlgys xfulbgqugtruo gbkglklu
gggggVltgko gxknuzlfulbg.ubbuzgbmvlgimvlxugvl gvobuzvbrkl
gggggVltbmrlxg.uikfuagpksogqmulgikfful u g.tgbmugfsobrbs u
gggggVwwubrbugzslagvpbuzgbmvbgrbgmvaglkb
gggggVzfu gwvzbruag(bmugbzsugaimkkogkpgbzuvakl,grlmsfvlrbt,gzk..uzt)
gggggVsbmkzrbtgbkg.ug raauibu g.tgbmugnvrlgpvliruagkpgful
gggggVsbmkzrbtgqmrimgvgxzviupsogwzuauliugvl gvgfvyuabrigfrulg.uxub
ggggg.ugklgqmrimgar ugtksgqroo,gtksgmvnugvagpvrzgvgxvfugbkgwovt
ggggg.uvsbtgkpgabvbszugragbmugklotg.uvsbtgkpgful
ggggg.uorunrlxgMuvnulgikliuzlu gvbgkszgkz rlvztgvibrkla
ggggg.ubbuzgvbgawuvcrlxgbmvlgqzrbrlxjggFkbrklgvl gvibrklgvlrfvbugqkz 
gggggIvuavz’agimkriugkpg uvbm:g“bmugamkzbuab”
ggggggIuzufkltgpkz.r agsagbkguhwzuaag.tgqkz agbmrlxagbmvbgvzugovqpso
gggggIklbulb:gfkzuguvarotgpksl grlgqvlbgbmvlgrlgv.sl vliu
gggggIszrkarbtgkpgclkqrlxgbmrlxagmvag.uulgxrnulgbkgfvlgpkzgvgaikszxu
ggggg upuliugvooszuagvbbufwb,gvl g uprvliugwzknkcuagvlguluft
ggggg uarzugkpgzrimuagragfkzugamvzwulu g.tgbmurzgsaugbmvlg.tgbmugluu 
ggggg rpprisobtgxrnuagvoogbmrlxagbmurzguabrfvbrkl
ggggg ks.bgqmubmuzgbmkaug(ko gqzrbrlxa)gqugmvnug.uglkbgbmugqkzab
ggggg ks.bpsogrooagwovxsugsagqkzab
gggggUl uvnkszrlxgbkg.ug.zrup,gRg.uikfugk.aiszu
gggggUlxvxu grlgbmugvnulsuagkpgko gvxu,g.urlxgvozuv tgwvabgpkzbt
gggggUnuztgxknuzlfulbgmvagvgxk gvbgbmugmuv gkpgrb
gggggUhuisbrklagzvbmuzgqmubgbmvlg soogbmugu xugkpgnriua
gggggPuvzgkpgbmugpvoogfkzugpunuzagfugbmvlgbmugpvoogrbauop
gggggPkootgbkgmvdvz gbmvbgswklgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgvsxfulbrlxgrbj
gggggPkzgqmkgunuzgbmksxmbgmugqvlbu gaulau?
gggggPkzbslugzsouagrlgvoogbmrlxa
gggggXulboufvlgqkso gwovtgbmugpkkogbkgfvcugvgamkqgkpg upuliu
gggggMvwwulgbkg kgvltbmrlxgikfful v.ou,gRgvbbzr.sbugrbgbkgpkzbslu
gggggMvnrlxgbkkgxkk gvlgkwrlrklgkpgkszgkqlgqkzbm
gggggMugamkso g raiuzlgrlgmrfauop,gvagquoogvagrlgkbmuza
gggggMugqmkgragklotgvgxkk gfvlgbmvbgfulgfvtgclkqgrb
gggggMkqgfvltgqkzbmtgfulgmvnugqugclkqlgbkgasznrnugbmurzgzuwsbvbrkl
gggggMsf.ougksbgkpgwzr u
gggggRgvfgnuztgxov gbkgprl gbmugqvtg.uvbulg.upkzugfug.tgkbmuza
gggggRgprl gftauopgmuzugpubbuzu g.tgbmugovqagkpgiuzufklt
gggggRgmvnuglkgfrl gbkg ru,g.sbgRgmvnuglkgk.yuibrklgbkg.ug uv 
gggggRgmvnuglkbgvgqrbgaswwougulksxmgbkgunv ugvgas  ulgesuabrkl
gggggRgmvnuglkbmrlxgkpgftgkqlgbmvbgavbrapruagftgys xfulb
gggggRgqkso g.ugzrimgkpgftauop,gvl glkbg.tg.kzzkqrlx
gggggRoogosicgragxkk gpkzgakfubmrlx
gggggRfrbvbrlxgkbmuzgful’aglvbszua,gbmksgovtuabgvar ugbmtgkql
gggggRffk uzvbugurbmuzgauucrlxgkzgunv rlxgxokztgkzgzuwsbvbrkl
gggggRfwslrbtgwvaagqrbmgsagpkzgysabriu
gggggRbgraglkbgpkzgksbqvz gamkqgbmvbgbmugaksogragbkgwovtgrbagwvzb
gggggClkqou xugkpgkbmuza,gqmuzurlgbmugmklkszgiklaraba
gggggOuaaulgbmugysabgnvosugkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgwkaauaa
gggggOriulaugkpgys xfulbagragvgxzuvbg rabsz.vliugbkgxzuvbgvppvrza
gggggOkaugqmvbgRgmvnugvgwvzbrisovzgivzugbkgokicgavpugsw
gggggOkauagfkzug.tg upul rlxgmragnrlutvz gbmvlgrpgmugxvnugrbgswj
gggggFkzug.zvnugfulg.uulgokabgrlgkiivarklagkpgorbbougfkfulb
gggggFkzugakorirbksagbmvbgfulgawuvcgkpgsa,gbmvlgmkqgbmutgawuvc
gggggFtgvppuibrklgvobuza,gftgys xfulbg kuaglkb
gggggLkgqvtgpksl ggbkgbzvlesroorbtgbmvbgragxkk grlgikffkl
gggggLkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgxknuzlgunulba,gRgxknuzlgftauop
gggggLkbgikliurnrlxgbmrlxagkbmuzqraugbmvlg.tgbmragksbqvz g.vzc
gggggLkbgpkzgvltgwzkprb,g.sbgpkzgbmugmklkszgkpgmkluabtgrbauop
gggggLkbmrlxgragfkzugiklpr ulbgbmvlgvg.v gwkub
gggggLkbmrlxgbmvbgakgwkraklagvagpovbbuzt
gggggK.u ruliugraglunuzgwszuglkzgivofgrlgmrfgqmkgzuvaklagvl g rawsbua
gggggKiivarklagkpgbmugouvabgosabzugvzugunuzgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa
gggggKpgbmugpouubrlxgtuvzaguvimgabuvoagakfubmrlxgpzkfgfu
gggggKppriugkpgfvxlvlrfrbtgkwulotgvl gwzkpuaau otgbkgoknugvl gmvbu
gggggKo gvxu:gvwwovs gbmugwvabgvl gikl uflgbmugwzuaulb
gggggKlugfvtg.ugmsf.ougksbgkpgwzr u
gggggKszgqroogragfkzugk.abrlvbug.tg.urlxgkwwkau 
gggggKnuznvosugbmrlxa,g.uivsaugbmutgvzugpkzurxl,gv.aulb
gggggWmrokwkuful:gwvtrlxgbmugwulvobtgkpgftgsxorluaaj
gggggWouvarlxgvoo:gvgfvzcgbmvbgivlglunuzg.ugvrfu gvbgkzgmrb
gggggWkuba
gggggWkaauaarklg.uxubagvgiklbufwbgkpgqmvbgrbgmko agvl gzsoua
gggggWzkoklxgmragorpugvoakgwzkoklxu gvl gvsxfulbu gmragwvrl
gggggZuxzubgakgmklkszv.ougvgwkab,gqmuzugluiuaarbtgfsabgfvcugbmufg.ko 
gggggAulau:glkgklugqmkgraglkbgiklbulbu gqrbmgmragamvzu
gggggAubbrlxgbkkgxzuvbgvgnvosugswklgkszauonua
gggggAubbrlxgbkkgorbbougvgnvosugswklgkbmuza
gggggAmugqmkgklotgzupsaua,g.uivsaug‘bragpkz.r  ul,giklaulba
gggggAmkzbgkpgbmugpkzufkab,g.sbg.upkzugbmugovab
gggggAksoagbmvbgvzugzuxsovzgvl gabzklxgkpgbmufauonuagvzugzvzu
gggggAsrir u:gvgfkzauogbmvbgragbkg.ugaqvookqu gqrbmksbgimuqrlx
gggggBvcugvoogbmrlxagvbgbmugqkzab,gvl gbkgzuakonugbkg.uvzgbmvbgqkzab
gggggBmugvxugqugornugrlgwzk siuag.sbgnuztgrl rppuzulbgbmrlxa
gggggBmugzuqvz gkpgvgbmrlxgquoog klugragbkgmvnug klugrb
gggggBmugavbrubtgkpgornrlx,grliorluagvgfvlgbkg uarzugbkg ru
gggggBmuzugraglkgzuvaklgbmvbgmvaglkbgrbagiklbzvzt
gggggBmutg kglkbgauugftgmuvzb,gbmutgauug.sbgftgikslbulvliu
gggggBmkaugqmkgivlgwouvaugvl gmsxgbmufauonuagrlgqmvbgbmutg k
gggggBragpvzg.utkl glkbgpuvzrlxg uvbmgbkgbvabugvl gzuoramgrb
gggggBkgpkz.r gsagvltbmrlxgragbkgfvcugsagmvnugvgfrl gbk’b
gggggNkriugvl g ubuzfrlvbrklgkpgbmugzv..ou,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgrxlkzvliu
gggggNsoxvzgzuwkzbagvl gkwrlrklagbmvbg zrnugsagkl
gggggQug.uorunugqug kglkbg.uorunu
gggggQugiklar uzgkszg uvbmgvagvgnuztgxzuvbgbmrlx
gggggQugmvnuglkbgbmugbmksavl bmgwvzbgkpgvlirulbgqzrbrlxa
gggggQugmvnugbvsxmbgbmugov ruagbkg.osam
gggggQugaubgbkkgfsimgnvosugswklgkszauonua
gggggQuzugfkzugvf.rbrksagkpgvgxzuvbgzuwsbvbrklgbmvlgkpgvgxkk gklu
gggggQmvbgvgfvlgavtagamkso g.ugqmvbgmugbmrlca
gggggQmvbgmug r g.tglvbszugvl gviir ulb,gmugivllkbg kg.tg uarxl
gggggQmvbgragfkzugviir ulbvogbmvlgzuwsbvbrkl?
gggggQmvb,gamvoogakgfsimgclkqou xug.ugokab
gggggQrauzgqmkgklotgclkqgqmvbgragluu psogpkzgbmufgbkgclkq






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg12j

HNRRRjggggKpgxrnrlxgbmugoruj
HRHjggggggKpgor.uzbtgkpgiklairuliuj
HHjgggggggBmvbgqugbvabuglkbmrlxgwszuj
HHRjggggggVxvrlabgr ouluaaj
HHRRjgggggKpgWkabrlxj
HHRRRjggggKpgroogfuvlagufwoktu gbkgvgxkk gul j
HHRNjgggggKpgbmugZkfvlgxzvl uszj
HHNjggggggLkbgbkgikslbuzpurbg.urlxgaricj
HHNRjgggggKpgbmsf.aj
HHNRRjggggIkqvz riugbmugfkbmuzgkpgizsuobtj
HHNRRRjgggVoogbmrlxagmvnugbmurzgauvaklj
HHRHjgggggKpgnrzbsuj
HHHjggggggKpgvgfklabzksagimro j
HHHRjgggggKpgvlxuzj



IMVWBUZgHNRRR

KPgXRNRLXgBMUgORU

Quoo,g.sbgakfugklugqroogavtgbkgfu,gbmrag uarxlgkpgfvcrlxgvgfvl’agauopgbmu
as.yuibgkpgmragqzrbrlx,gquzugrl uu guhisav.ougrlgzvzugvl gpvfksagful,gqmk
.tgbmurzgzuwsbvbrklgmv gxrnulgkbmuzagvgiszrkarbtgbkg.ugpsootgrlpkzfu gkp
bmufjggRbgragfkabgbzsu,gRgiklpuaagvl gclkqgnuztgquoo,gbmvbgvgfuimvlri
qroogaivziugorpbgmragutuagpzkfgmragqkzcgbkgokkcgvbgvlgkz rlvztgfvl,
qmuzuvagvgfvlgqroogpkzavcugmrag.sarluaagvl gmragamkwgbkgabvzugvbgvl
ufrlulbgwuzaklgqmulgmugikfuagrlbkgvgbkqljggRbgfra.uikfuagvltgkbmuzgbk
xrnugmragkqlgimvzvibuz,g.sbgmrfgqmkgmvagesvorbruagqkzbmtgkpgrfrbvbrkl,
vl gqmkaugorpugvl gkwrlrklagfvtgauznugpkzguhvfwou:gIvuavzgvl gHulkwmkl
mv gvgysabgvl gakor gpksl vbrklgqmuzuklgbkgpksl gbmurzglvzzvbrkla,gbmu
xzuvbluaagkpgbmurzgkqlgwuzpkzfvliua;gvl gquzugbkg.ugqramu gbmvbgqugmv 
bmugykszlvoagkpgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gbmugikffulbvzruagbmvbgVsxsabsa,
Ivbk,gAtoov,g.zsbsa,gvl gkbmuzagoupbgkpgbmurzgvibrkla;gkpgasimgwuzakla
fulgoknugvl giklbufwovbugbmugnuztgabvbsuagunulgrlgikwwuzgvl gfvz.ouj
Bmragzufklabzvliugragnuztgbzsu;g.sbgrbgnuztgorbbougikliuzlagfu:

ggggggggg“Lklgzuirbkgisresvf,glrargvfrira,gr esugikvibsa;
ggggggggggLklgs.rnra,gikzvfnugesr.saor.ub,grlgfu rkgesr
ggggggggggAizrwbvgpkzkgzuirbvlb,gaslbgfsobr,gesresugovnvlbuaj”

ggggg[“Rgzuwuvbgftgwkufagklotgbkgftgpzrul a,gvl gqmulg.ksl gbkg kgak;
ggggglkbg.upkzugunuztgklugvl gunuztqmuzu;gbmuzugvzugwoulbtgkpgzuirbuza
gggggrlgbmugkwulgfvzcub-woviugvl gvbgbmug.vbmaj”--Mkzviu,gavbjgrjg4,g73j]

Rg kglkbgmuzugpkzfgvgabvbsugbkguzuibgrlgbmugxzuvbgaesvzugkpgvgirbt,grlgv
imszim,gkzgvltgws.origwoviu:

ggggggggg“Lklguesr ufgmkigabs uk,g.soovbragsbgfrmrglsxra,
ggggggggggWvxrlvgbszxuaivbjjjjjj
ggggggggggAuizubrgokesrfsz:”

ggggg[“Rgabs tglkbgbkgfvcugftgwvxuagaquoogqrbmgufwbtgbzrpoua;
gggggtksgvl gRgvzugbvocrlxgrlgwzrnvbuj”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,gnjg19j]

‘bragpkzgakfugikzluzgkpgvgor.zvzt,gkzgbkgulbuzbvrlgvglurxm.ksz,
vgcrlafvl,gvgpzrul ,gqmkgmvagvgfrl gbkgzuluqgmragviesvrlbvliugvl 
pvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgfugrlgbmragrfvxugkpgftauopjggKbmuzagmvnug.uulgulikszvxu 
bkgawuvcgkpgbmufauonua,g.uivsaugbmutgpksl gbmugas.yuibgqkzbmtgvl gzrim;
R,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gvfgbmug.ko uz,g.tgzuvaklgbmugas.yuibgragakgwkkzgvl 
abuzrougbmvbgRgivllkbg.ugasawuibu gkpgkabulbvbrkljggRgys xugpzuuotgkpgbmu
vibrklagkpgkbmuza;gRgxrnugorbbougkpgftgkqlgbkgys xugkp,g.uivsaugbmutgvzu
lkbmrlx:gRg kglkbgprl gakgfsimgxkk grlgftauop,gbmvbgRgivllkbgbuoogrb
qrbmksbg.osamrlxj

Qmvbgiklbulbfulbgqkso grbglkbg.ugbkgfugbkgmuvzgvltgklugbmsagzuovbugbkgfu
bmugfvlluza,gpviua,gikslbulvliua,gbmugkz rlvztgqkz agvl gpkzbsluagkpgft
vliuabkza?gmkqgvbbulbrnuotgamkso gRgorabulgbkgrb!ggRlguvzluab,grbgqkso 
.ugunroglvbszugbkg uawraugakgfsimgvagbmugwribszuagkpgkszgpzrul agvl 
wzu uiuaakza,gbmugpvamrklgkpgbmurzgiokbmuagvl gvzfajggRgwzuauznugbmurz
qzrbrlx,gauvo,gvl gvgwvzbrisovzgaqkz gbmutgqkzu,gvl gmvnuglkbgbmzkqlgbmu
oklxgabvnuagftgpvbmuzgsau gbkgivzztgrlgmragmvl ,gksbgkpgftgiokaubj

gggggggggg“Wvbuzlvgnuabra,gubgvllsosa,gbvlbkgimvzrkzguab
ggggggggggwkabuzra,gesvlbkguzxvgwvzulbuagfvykzgvppuibsaj”

ggggg[“Vgpvbmuz’agxvzfulbgvl gzrlxgrag.tgakgfsimg uvzuzgbkgmragwkabuzrbt,
gggggvagbmuzugragbmugxzuvbuzgvppuibrklgbkqvz agwvzulbaj”
gggggg--AbjgVsxj,g ugIrnvbjg ur,grjg13j]

Rpgftgwkabuzrbt,glunuzbmuouaa,gamvoog.ugkpgvlkbmuzgfrl ,gRgamvoog.u
vnulxu gklgbmuf;gpkzgbmutgivllkbgivzugouaagpkzgfugbmvlgRgamvoogbmulg k
pkzgbmufjggVoogbmugbzvpprigbmvbgRgmvnugrlgbmragqrbmgbmugws.origra,gbmvbgR
.kzzkqgbmurzgsbularoagkpgqzrbrlx,gqmrimgvzugfkzuguvatgvl gfkabgvbgmvl ;
vl grlgzuikfwulaugamvoo,gwuzv nulbszu,gcuuwgvgwksl gkpg.sbbuzgrlgbmu
fvzcubgpzkfgfuobrlxgrlgbmugasl:--[Fklbvrxlugaufr-auzrksaotgawuisovbuagkl
bmugwkaar.rorbtgkpgmragFAjg.urlxgsau gbkgqzvwgswg.sbbuzj]

gggggggggggggg“Lugbkxvgikz toora,glugwulsovg uarbgkornra;
gggggggggggggggUbgovhvagaikf.zragavuwug v.kgbslriva;”

ggggg[“Oubglkbgqzvwwuzag.ugqvlbrlxgbkgbsllt-pram,glkzgkornua;
gggggvl gRgamvoogaswwotgokkaugiknuzrlxagbkgfvicuzuoj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,ghrrrjggR,gRj]

Vl gbmksxmglk.k tgamkso gzuv gfu,gmvnugRgqvabu gbrfugrlgulbuzbvrlrlx
ftauopgakgfvltgr ougmkszagrlgakgwouvarlxgvl gsaupsogbmksxmba?ggRl
fkso rlxgbmragprxszugswklgftauop,gRgmvnug.uulgakgkpbulgiklabzvrlu gbk
bufwuzgvl gikfwkaugftauopgrlgvgzrxmbgwkabszu,gbmvbgbmugikwtgragbzsot
bvcul,gvl gmvagrlgakfugakzbgpkzfu grbauop;gwvrlbrlxgftauopgpkzgkbmuza,
Rgzuwzuaulbgftauopgrlgvg.ubbuzgikokszrlxgbmvlgftgkqlglvbszvogikfwouhrklj
Rgmvnuglkgfkzugfv ugftg.kkcgbmvlgftg.kkcgmvagfv ugfu:g‘bragvg.kkc
iklas.abvlbrvogqrbmgbmugvsbmkz,gkpgvgwuisorvzg uarxl,gvgwvziuogkpgft
orpu,gvl gqmkaug.sarluaagraglkbg uarxlu gpkzgkbmuza,gvagbmvbgkpgvoogkbmuz
.kkcagrajggRlgxrnrlxgftauopgakgiklbrlsvogvl gakguhvibgvlgviikslbgkp
ftauop,gmvnugRgokabgftgbrfu?ggPkzgbmutgqmkgakfubrfuagiszakzrotgasznut
bmufauonuagklot,g kglkbgakgabzribotguhvfrlugbmufauonua,glkzgwulubzvbugak
 uuw,gvagmugqmkgfvcuagrbgmrag.sarluaa,gmragabs t,gvl gmragufwoktfulb,gqmk
rlbul agvgovabrlxgzuikz ,gqrbmgvoogmragpr uorbt,gvl gqrbmgvoogmragpkziu:
Bmugfkabg uorirksagwouvaszuag rxuabu gqrbmrl,gvnkr gouvnrlxgvltgbzviugkp
bmufauonua,gvl gvnkr gbmugarxmbglkbgklotgkpgbmugwukwou,g.sbgkpgvltgkbmuz
wuzakljggMkqgkpbulgmvagbmragqkzcg rnuzbu gfugpzkfgbzks.ouakfugbmksxmba?
vl gvoogbmvbgvzugpzrnkoksagamkso g.ugzuwsbu gakjggLvbszugmvagwzuaulbu gsa
qrbmgvgovzxugpvisobtgkpgulbuzbvrlrlxgkszauonuagvoklu;gvl gkpbulgivooagsa
bkgrb,gbkgbuvimgsagbmvbgqugkqugkszauonuagrlgwvzbgbkgakirubt,g.sbgimrupot
vl gfkabotgbkgkszauonuajggBmvbgRgfvtgmv.rbsvbugftgpvlitgunulgbkgfu rbvbu
rlgakfugfubmk gvl gbkgakfugul ,gvl gbkgcuuwgrbgpzkfgokarlxgrbauopgvl 
zknrlxgvbgzvl kf,g‘brag.sbgbkgxrnugbkg.k tgvl gbkgzuikz gvoogbmugorbbou
bmksxmbagbmvbgwzuaulbgbmufauonuagbkgrbjggRgxrnuguvzgbkgftgqmrfarua,
.uivsaugRgvfgbkgzuikz gbmufjggRbgkpbulgpvooagksb,gbmvbg.urlxg rawouvau 
vbgakfugvibrklgbmvbgirnrorbtgvl gzuvaklgqrooglkbgwuzfrbgfugkwulotgbk
zuwzknu,gRgmuzug raxkzxugftauop,glkbgqrbmksbg uarxlgkpgws.ori
rlabzsibrkl:gvl gvoakgbmuaugwkubrivogovamua,

ggggggggggggggggggg“Dklgdszgo’kuro,grklgaszgougxzkrl,
ggggggggggggggggggggDklgdszgoug kag sgAvxkrl,”

ggggg[“Vgaovwgklgmragutu,gvgaovwgklgmragalksb,gvgaovwgklgAvxkrl’a
ggggg.vicj”--FvzkbjgPzrwuorwwua,gNvoubg ugFvzkbgvgAvxkrlj]


rfwzrlbgbmufauonuag.ubbuzgswklgwvwuzgbmvlgswklgbmugpouamjggQmvbgrpgR
orabulgbkg.kkcagvgorbbougfkzugvbbulbrnuotgbmvlgkz rlvzt,garliugRgqvbimgrp
Rgivlgwszokrlgvltbmrlxgbmvbgfvtgv kzlgkzgaswwkzbgftgkql?ggRgmvnuglkbgvb
voogabs ru gbkgfvcugvg.kkc;g.sbgRgmvnugrlgakfugakzbgabs ru g.uivsaugRgmv 
fv ugrb;grpgrbg.ugabs trlxgbkgaizvbimgvl gwrlimglkqgklugvsbmkz,gvl gbmul
vlkbmuz,gurbmuzg.tgbmugmuv gkzgpkkb,glkbgqrbmgvltg uarxlgbkgpkzfgkwrlrkla
pzkfgbmuf,g.sbgbkgvaarab,gauikl ,gvl gpkzbrptgbmkaugRgvozuv tgmvnu
uf.zviu jg.sbgqmkfgamvoogqug.uorunugrlgbmugzuwkzbgmugfvcuagkpgmrfauopgrl
akgikzzswbgvlgvxu?ggiklar uzrlxgbmuzugvzugakgpuq,grp,gvltgvbgvoo,gqmkfgqu
ivlg.uorunugqmulgawuvcrlxgkpgkbmuza,gqmuzugbmuzugragouaagrlbuzuabgbkgoruj
Bmugprzabgbmrlxg klugrlgbmugikzzswbrklgkpgfvlluzagrag.vlramrlxgbzsbm;
pkz,gvagWrl vzgavta,gbkg.ugbzsugragbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgvgxzuvbgnrzbsu,gvl 
bmugprzabgvzbriougbmvbgWovbkgzuesrzuagrlgbmugxknuzlkzgkpgmragZuws.orij
Bmugbzsbmgkpgbmuaug vtagraglkbgbmvbgqmrimgzuvootgra,g.sbgqmvbgunuztgfvl
wuzasv uagvlkbmuzgfvlgbkg.uorunu;gvagqugxuluzvootgxrnugbmuglvfugkpgfklut
lkbgklotgbkgwruiuagkpgbmug sabgvookt,g.sbgunulgbkgbmugpvoaugvoak,grpgbmut
qroogwvaajggKszglvbrklgmvagoklxg.uulgzuwzkvimu gqrbmgbmragnriu;gpkz
AvonrvlsagkpgFvzaurooua,gqmkgornu grlgbmugbrfugkpgbmugUfwuzkz
Nvoulbrlrvl,gavtagbmvbgotrlxgvl gpkzaquvzrlxgbmufauonuagragqrbmgbmu
Pzulimglkbgvgnriu,g.sbgvgqvtgkpgawuvcrlxjggMugqmkgqkso gulmvliugbmra
buabrfklt,gfrxmbgavtgbmvbgrbgraglkqgvgnrzbsugrlgbmuf;gfulgpkzfgvl 
pvamrklgbmufauonuagbkgrbgvagbkgvlguhuziraugkpgmklksz;gpkzg raarfsovbrkl
ragklugkpgbmugfkabglkbv.ougesvorbruagkpgbmragvxuj

Rgmvnugkpbulgiklar uzu gqmuliugbmragisabkfgbmvbgqugakgzuorxrksaotgk.auznu
amkso gawzrlx,gkpg.urlxgfkzugmrxmotgkppul u gqrbmgbmugzuwzkvimgkpgvgnriu
akgpvfrorvzgbkgsagbmvlgqrbmgvltgkbmuz,gvl gbmvbgrbgamkso g.ugbmugmrxmuab
rlasobgbmvbgivlgrlgqkz ag.ug klugsagbkgzuwzkvimgsagqrbmgvgorujggSwkl
uhvfrlvbrkl,gRgprl gbmvbgrbgraglvbszvogfkabgbkg upul gbmug upuibagqrbm
qmrimgqugvzugfkabgbvrlbu jggRbgauufagvagrpg.tgzuaulbrlxgvl g.urlxgfknu 
vbgbmugviisavbrkl,gqugrlgakfugakzbgviesrbgkszauonuagkpgbmugpvsob;gbmksxm
qugmvnugrbgrlguppuib,gqugikl uflgrbgrlgksbqvz gvwwuvzvliujggFvtgrbglkb
voakg.ugbmvbgbmragzuwzkvimgauufagbkgrfwotgikqvz riugvl gpuu.ouluaagkp
muvzb?gkpgqmrimgivlgbmuzug.ugvgfkzugfvlrpuabgarxlgbmvlgbkguvbgvgfvl’agkql
qkz a--lvt,gbkgorugvxvrlabgvgfvl’agkqlgclkqou xu?ggOtrlxgragvg.vaugnriu;
vgnriugbmvbgklugkpgbmugvlirulbagwkzbzvtagrlgbmugfkabgk rksagikokszagqmul
mugavta,g“bmvbgrbgragbkgfvlrpuabgvgiklbufwbgkpgXk ,gvl gqrbmvogvgpuvzgkp
fulj”ggRbgraglkbgwkaar.ougfkzugpsootgbkgzuwzuaulbgbmugmkzzkz,g.vauluaa,
vl grzzuxsovzrbtgkpgrb;gpkzgqmvbgivlgvgfvlgrfvxrlugfkzugmvbupsogvl 
iklbufwbr.ougbmvlgbkg.ugvgikqvz gbkqvz agful,gvl gnvorvlbgvxvrlabgmra
Fvcuz?ggKszgrlbuoorxuliug.urlxg.tglkgkbmuzgqvtgikffslriv.ougbkgklu
vlkbmuzg.sbg.tgvgwvzbrisovzgqkz ,gmugqmkgpvoarpruagbmvbg.ubzvtagws.ori
akirubtjgg‘Bragbmugklotgqvtg.tgqmrimgqugikffslrivbugkszgbmksxmbagvl 
qrooa;g‘bragbmugrlbuzwzubuzgkpgbmugakso,gvl grpgrbg uiurnugsa,gquglk
oklxuzgclkqglkzgmvnugpszbmuzgbrugswklgklugvlkbmuz;grpgbmvbg uiurnugsa,grb
.zuvcagvoogkszgikzzuawkl uliu,gvl g raakonuagvoogbmugbruagkpgxknuzlfulbj
Iuzbvrlglvbrklagkpgbmugluqotg raiknuzu gRl ruag(Rgluu glkbgxrnugbmuf
lvfua,gauurlxgbmutgvzuglkgfkzu;gpkz,g.tgqkl uzpsogvl gslmuvz kpguhvfwou,
bmug uakovbrklgkpgbmvbgiklesuabgmvaguhbul u gbkgbmugsbbuzgv.korbrklgkp
lvfuagvl gbmugvlirulbgclkqou xugkpgwoviua)gkppuzu gbkgbmurzgxk agmsfvl
.okk ,g.sbgklotgasimgvagqvag zvqlgpzkfgbmugbklxsugvl guvza,gbkguhwrvbu
pkzgbmugarlgkpgotrlx,gvagquoogmuvz gvagwzklksliu jggBmvbgxkk gpuookqgkp
Xzuuiu--[Wosbvzim,gOrpugkpgOtavl uz,gijg4j]--avr gbmvbgimro zulgvzu
vfsau gqrbmgbktagvl gfulgqrbmgqkz aj

Vagbkgkszg rnuzaugsavxuagkpgxrnrlxgbmugoru,gvl gbmugovqagkpgmklkszgrl
bmvbgivau,gvl gbmugvobuzvbrklgbmutgmvnugzuiurnu ,gRg upuzgavtrlxgqmvbgR
clkqgkpgbmufgbkgvlkbmuzgbrfu,gvl gamvoogouvzl,grpgRgivl,grlgbmu
fuvlqmrou,gvbgqmvbgbrfugbmugisabkfgbkkcg.uxrllrlxgkpgakguhvibotgqurxmrlx
vl gfuvaszrlxgqkz a,gvl gkpgfvcrlxgkszgmklkszgrlbuzuabu grlgbmuf;gpkzgrb
raguvatgbkgys xugbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgvlirulbotgvfklxabgbmugZkfvlagvl gXzuucaj
Vl grbgmvagkpbulgauufu gbkgfugabzvlxugbkgauugbmufgzvrogvbgvl gxrnugklu
vlkbmuzgbmugorugqrbmksbgvltgesvzzuojggBmurzgovqagkpg sbtgabuuzu gakfu
kbmuzgikszaugbmvlgkszajggIvuavzgragakfubrfuagivoou gbmrup,gvl gakfubrfua
 zslcvz ,gbkgmragbuubmjggQugauugbmugor.uzbtgkpgrlnuibrnugbmutgwzvibrau 
swklgklugvlkbmuz,gRgfuvlgbmugxzuvbuabgimrupagkpgqvzgkpg.kbmglvbrkla,
qmuzugqkz agvzugklotgzunulxu gqrbmgqkz a,gvl g kglkbgwzkiuu gvltgpvzbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHRH

KPgOR.UZBTgKPgIKLAIRULIU

‘Bragsasvogbkgauugxkk grlbulbrkla,grpgivzzru gklgqrbmksbgfk uzvbrkl,gwsam
fulgklgbkgnuztgnrirksaguppuibajggRlgbmrag rawsbugqmrimgmvagvbgbmragbrfu
ulxvxu gPzvliugrlgvgirnrogqvz,gbmug.ubbuzgvl gbmugaksl uabgivsauglkg ks.b
ragbmvbgqmrimgfvrlbvrlagbmugvlirulbgzuorxrklgvl gxknuzlfulbgkpgbmu
crlx kfjggLunuzbmuouaa,gvfklxabgbmugxkk gfulgkpgbmvbgwvzbtg(pkzgRg kglkb
awuvcgkpgbmkaugqmkgklotgfvcugvgwzubuliugkpgrb,gurbmuzgbkguhuisbugbmurz
kqlgwvzbrisovzgzunulxuagkzgbkgxzvbrptgbmurzgvnvzriu,gkzgbkgiklirorvbugbmu
pvnkszgkpgwzrliua,g.sbgkpgbmkaugqmkgulxvxugrlgbmugesvzzuogksbgkpgbzsu
duvogbkgzuorxrklgvl gvgmkotg uarzugbkgfvrlbvrlgbmugwuviugvl gxknuzlfulb
kpgbmurzgikslbzt),gkpgbmuau,gRgavt,gqugauugfvltgqmkfgwvaarklgbzvlawkzba
.utkl gbmug.ksl agkpgzuvakl,gvl gakfubrfuagrlawrzuagqrbmgikslauoagbmvb
vzugslysabgvl gnrkoulb,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gzvamj

Rbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgrlgbmkaugprzabgbrfua,gqmulgkszgzuorxrklg.uxvlgbkgxvrl
vsbmkzrbtgqrbmgbmugovqa,gduvogvzfu gfvltgvxvrlabgvoogakzbagkpgwvxvl
.kkca,g.tgqmrimgbmugouvzlu gasppuzu gvlguhiuu rlxgxzuvbgokaa,gvg rakz uz
bmvbgRgikliurnugbkgmvnug klugfkzugwzuys riugbkgoubbuzagbmvlgvoogbmu
povfuagkpgbmug.vz.vzrvlajggKpgbmragIkzluorsagBvirbsagragvgnuztgxkk 
buabrfklt;gpkzgbmksxmgbmugUfwuzkzgBvirbsa,gmragcrlafvl,gmv ,g.tguhwzuaa
kz uz,gpszlramu gvoogbmugor.zvzruagrlgbmugqkzo gqrbmgrb,glunuzbmuouaagklu
ulbrzugikwtgikso glkbguaivwugbmugiszrksaguhvfrlvbrklgkpgbmkaugqmkg uarzu 
bkgv.koramgrbgpkzgklotgprnugkzgarhgr ougiovsauagbmvbgquzugiklbzvztgbkgksz
.uorupj

Bmutgmv gvoakgbmugbzricguvarotgbkgoul gsl sugwzvrauagbkgvoogbmugufwuzkza
qmkgfv ugpkzgsa,gvl gslrnuzavootgbkgikl uflgvoogbmugvibrklagkpgbmkaugqmk
quzugv nuzavzrua,gvagragunr ulbotgfvlrpuabgrlgbmugUfwuzkzgYsorvl,
aszlvfu gbmugVwkabvbu,

ggggg[BmugimvzvibuzgkpgbmugUfwuzkzgYsorvlgqvagiulaszu ,gqmulgFklbvrxlu
gggggqvagvbgZkfugrlg1581,g.tgbmugFvabuzgkpgbmugAvizu gWvoviu,gqmk,
gggggmkqunuz,gvagFklbvrxlugbuooagsagrlgmragykszlvog(rrjgg35),gzupuzzu grb
gggggbkgmragiklairuliugbkgvobuzgqmvbgmugamkso gbmrlcgrlg.v gbvabujggBmra
gggggFklbvrxlug r glkbg k,gvl gbmragimvwbuzgaswworu gNkobvrzugqrbmgbmu
gggggxzuvbuzgwvzbgkpgbmugwzvrauagmug.uabkqu gswklgbmugUfwuzkzj--Ouiouzij]

qmkgqva,grlgbzsbm,gvgnuztgxzuvbgvl gzvzugfvl,gvgfvlgrlgqmkaugakso
wmrokakwmtgqvagrfwzrlbu grlgbmug.uabgimvzvibuza,g.tgqmrimgmugwzkpuaau gbk
xknuzlgvoogmragvibrkla;gvl ,grlgbzsbm,gbmuzugraglkgakzbgkpgnrzbsugkp
qmrimgmugmvaglkbgoupbg.umrl gmrfgnuztglkbv.ouguhvfwoua:grlgimvabrbtg(kp
qmrimgbmugqmkougkpgmragorpugxvnugfvlrpuabgwzkkp)gqugzuv gbmugavfugkpgmrf
bmvbgqvagavr gkpgVouhvl uzgvl gAirwrk,gbmvbg.urlxgrlgbmugpokquzgkpgmra
vxu,gpkzgmugqvagaovrlg.tgbmugWvzbmrvlagvbgklu-vl -bmrzbt,gkpgvgxzuvbgfvlt
nuztg.uvsbrpsogivwbrnua,gmugqkso glkbgakgfsimgvagokkcgswklgklujggVagbk
mragysabriu,gmugbkkcgmrfauopgbmugwvrlagbkgmuvzgbmugwvzbrua,gvl gvobmksxm
mugqkso gksbgkpgiszrkarbtgrlesrzugqmvbgzuorxrklgbmutgquzugkp,
lunuzbmuouaa,gbmugvlbrwvbmtgmugmv gbkgkszaglunuzgxvnugvltgikslbuzwkraugbk
bmug.vovliujggMugfv ugmrfauopgaunuzvogxkk govqa,gvl gzuwuvou gvgxzuvb
wvzbgkpgbmugas.ar ruagvl gbvhuagounru g.tgmragwzu uiuaakzaj

Qugmvnugbqkgxkk gmrabkzrvlagqmkgquzugutuqrbluaauagkpgmragvibrkla:gklugkp
qmkf,gFvziuoorlsa,grlgaunuzvogwoviuagkpgmragmrabkztgamvzwotgzuwzknuagvl
u ribgkpgmragqmuzu.tgmugrlbuz ribu gvoogImzrabrvlgzmubkzrirvlagvl 
xzvffvzrvlagbkgcuuwgaimkkogkzgbkgbuvim,gvl gavtagmugikso gqramgbmvbgvib
kpgmragmv g.uulg.szru grlgarouliu:grbgragwzk.v.ougbmvbgmv gmug klugvlt
fkzugaunuzugbmrlxgvxvrlabgsa,gmu,gakgvppuibrklvbugvagmugqvagbkgkszgwvzbt,
qkso glkbgmvnugwvaau grbgknuzgrlgarouliujggMugqvagrl uu gamvzwgvxvrlab
sa,g.sbgtubglkgizsuoguluft;gpkzgkszgkqlgwukwougbuoogbmragabkztgkpgmrf,
bmvbgklug vt,gqvocrlxgv.ksbgbmugirbtgkpgImvoiu kl,gFvzra,g.ramkwgkpgbmu
woviu;gqvagakg.ko gvagbkgbuoogmrfgbmvbgmugqvagrfwrksa,gvl gvlguluftgbk
Imzrab,gvbgqmrim,gbmutgavt,gmugqvaglkgpszbmuzgfknu gbmvlgbkgzuwot,
“Xk,gwkkzgqzubim,gvl govfulbgbmugokaagkpgbmtgutua,”gbkgqmrimgbmug.ramkw
zuworu gvxvrl,g“RgbmvlcgYuasagImzrabgpkzgbvcrlxgvqvtgftgarxmb,gbmvbgRgfvt
lkbgauugbmtgrfws ulbgnravxu,”gvppuibrlxgrlgbmvb,gbmutgavt,gv
wmrokakwmrivogwvbruliujgg.sbgbmragvibrklgkpgmrag.uvzaglkgikfwvzraklgbk
bmugizsuobtgbmvbgmugragavr gbkgmvnuguhuzirau gvxvrlabgsajgg“Mugqva,”gavta
Usbzkwrsa,ggftgkbmuzgqrbluaa,g“vlguluftgbkgImzrabrvlrbt,gg.sbgqrbmksb
wsbbrlxgmragmvl gbkg.okk j”ggVl ,gbkgzubszlgbkgmragysabriu,gbmuzugra
lkbmrlxgrlgbmvbgqmuzukpgmugivlg.ugviisau ,gbmugaunuzrbtguhiuwbu gmu
wzvibrau grlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgmragzurxlgvxvrlabgbmkaugqmkgmv gpkookqu 
bmugwvzbtgkpgIklabvlbrsa,gmragwzu uiuaakzjggVagbkgmragak.zrubt,gmugornu 
voqvtagvgako ruz-orcugorpu;gvl gk.auznu gvg rubgvl gzksbrlu,gorcugklu
bmvbgwzuwvzu gvl grlszu gmrfauopgbkgbmugvsabuzrbruagkpgqvzjggMra
nrxrovliugqvagasim,gbmvbgmug rnr u gbmuglrxmbgrlbkgbmzuugkzgpkszgwvzba,
kpgqmrimgbmugouvabgqvag u rivbu gbkgaouuw;gbmugzuabgqvagawulbgurbmuzgrl
nrarbrlxgbmugabvbugkpgmragvzftgvl gxsvz agrlgwuzakl,gkzgrlgabs t;gpkz
vfklxabgkbmuzgzvzugesvorbrua,gmugqvagnuztguhiuooulbgrlgvoogakzbagkp
ouvzlrlxjgg‘Bragavr gkpgVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gbmvbg.urlxgrlg.u ,gpkzgpuvz
ouabgaouuwgamkso g rnuzbgmrfgpzkfgmragbmksxmbagvl gabs rua,gmugmv gvoqvta
vg.varlgaubg.tgmrag.u ar u,gvl gmuo gklugkpgmragmvl agksbgqrbmgvg.voogkp
ikwwuzgrlgrb,gbkgbmugul ,gbmvb,g.uxrllrlxgbkgpvoogvaouuw,gvl gmragprlxuza
ouvnrlxgbmurzgmko ,gbmug.voog.tgpvoorlxgrlbkgbmug.varl,gfrxmbgvqvcugmrfj
.sbgbmugkbmuzgmv gmragaksogakg.ulbgswklgqmvbgmugmv gvgfrl gbkg k,gvl gak
orbboug rabsz.u gqrbmgpsfuag.tgzuvaklgkpgmragarlxsovzgv.abrluliu,gbmvbgmu
mv glkgluu gkpgvltgasimgrlnulbrkljggVagbkgmragfrorbvztguhwuzruliu,gmugqva
uhiuooulbgrlgvoogbmugesvorbruagkpgvgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gvagrbgqvagorcuotgmu
amkso ,g.urlxgvofkabgvoogmragorpugrlgvgiklbrlsvoguhuziraugkpgqvz,gvl 
fkabgkpgbmvbgbrfugqrbmgsagrlgPzvliu,gvxvrlabgbmugXuzfvlagvl gPzvlca:gqu
mvz otgzuv gkpgvltgfvlgqmkgunuzgavqgfkzug vlxuza,gkzgqmkgfv ugfkzu
pzuesulbgwzkkpagkpgmragwuzaklvognvokszj

Mrag uvbmgmvagakfubmrlxgrlgrbgwvzvoouogqrbmgbmvbgkpgUwvfrlkl va,gpkzgmu
qvagqksl u gqrbmgvlgvzzkq,gvl gbzru gbkgwsoogrbgksb,gvl gmv g klugak,g.sb
bmvb,g.urlxgu xu ,grbgisbgvl g rav.ou gmragmvl jggMugrliuaavlbotgivoou 
ksbgbmvbgbmutgamkso givzztgmrfgvxvrlgrlbkgbmugmuvbgkpgbmug.vbbou,gbk
ulikszvxugmragako ruza,gqmkgnuztg.zvnuotg rawsbu gbmugprxmbgqrbmksbgmrf,
brooglrxmbgwvzbu gbmugvzfruajggMugabkk gk.orxu gbkgmragwmrokakwmtgpkzgbmu
arlxsovzgiklbufwbgmugmv gpkzgmragorpugvl gvoogmsfvlgbmrlxajggMugmv gv
przfg.uorupgkpgbmugrffkzbvorbtgkpgaksoaj

Rlgfvbbuzgkpgzuorxrklgmugqvagqzklxgbmzksxmksb,gvl gqvagaszlvfu gbmu
Vwkabvbugpkzgmvnrlxgzuorlesramu gksza:glunuzbmuouaa,gbmugkwrlrklgauufagbk
fugfkzugwzk.v.ou,gbmvbgmugmv glunuzgbmkzksxmotguf.zviu grb,g.sbgmv 
 raauf.ou gksbgkpgk.u ruliugbkgbmugovqa,gbroogmugivfugbkgbmugufwrzuj
Mugqvagrlgmragkqlgakgaswuzabrbrksa,gbmvbgmugqvagovsxmu gvbgpkzgrbg.t
bmkaugkpgmragkqlgbrfu,gkpgbmugavfugkwrlrkl,gqmkgyuuzrlxotgavr ,gbmvbgmv 
mugxkbgbmugnribkztgknuzgbmugWvzbmrvla,gmugmv g uabzktu gbmug.zuu gkpgkhul
rlgbmugqkzo gbkgaswwotgmragavizrpriuajggMugqva,gfkzuknuz,g.uakbbu gqrbm
bmugvzbgkpg rnrlvbrkl,gvl gxvnugvsbmkzrbtgbkgvoogakzbagkpgwzu ribrklaj
Mugavr ,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxagvbgmrag uvbm,gbmvbgmugqvagk.orxu gbkgbmu
xk a,gvl gbmvlcu gbmuf,grlgbmvbgbmutgqkso glkbgisbgmrfgkppg.tgaszwzrau,
mvnrlxgoklxg.upkzugv nuzbrau gmrfgkpgbmugwoviugvl gmkszgkpgmrag uvbm,glkz
.tgvgfuvlgvl gslfvlotg uvbm,gfkzug.uikfrlxgovdtgvl g uorivbugwukwou;glkz
.tgvg uvbmgbmvbgqvagovlxsramrlx,goklx,gvl gwvrlpso;gvl gbmvbgbmutgmv 
bmksxmbgmrfgqkzbmtgbkg rugvpbuzgbmvbglk.ougfvlluz,grlgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmra
nribkzrua,grlgbmugpokquzgkpgmragxokztjggMugmv gvgnrarklgorcugbmvbgkp
Fvzisag.zsbsa,gbmvbgprzabgbmzuvbulu gmrfgrlgXvso,gvl gvpbuzqvz gvwwuvzu 
bkgmrfgrlgWuzarvgysabg.upkzugmrag uvbmjggBmuaugqkz agbmvbgakfugfvcugmrf
avtgqmulgmugpuobgmrfauopgqksl u :g“Bmksgmvabgknuzikfu,gLvdvzulu”;gkzgva
kbmuza,g“Iklbulbgbmtauop,gLvdvzulu”;gqkso gmvz otgmvnug.uulgkfrbbu ,gmv 
bmutg.uulg.uorunu ,g.tgftgqrbluaaua,gqmk,g.urlxgwzuaulbgrlgbmugvzft,gmvnu
aubg kqlgbkgbmugouvabgfkbrklagvl gqkz agkpgmragul ;glkgfkzugbmvlgiuzbvrl
kbmuzgfrzviouagbmvbgvzugzuwkzbu gv.ksbgrbj

Vl gbkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib,gmugoklxglkszramu ,gavtagFvziuoorlsa,
wvxvlrafgrlgmragmuvzb;g.sbgvoogmragvzftg.urlxgImzrabrvla,gmug szabglkb
kqlgrbjgg.sbgrlgbmugul ,gauurlxgmrfauopgabzklxgulksxmgbkg vzugbkg raiknuz
mrfauop,gmugivsau gbmugbufwouagkpgbmugxk agbkg.ugbmzkqlgkwul,gvl g r gmra
sbbuzfkabgbkgaubgklgpkkbgvl gbkgulikszvxugr kovbztjggQmrimgbmug.ubbuzgbk
uppuib,gmvnrlxgvbgIklabvlbrlkwougpksl gbmugwukwoug raslrbu ,gvl gvoakgbmu
wzuovbuagkpgbmugimszimg rnr u gvfklxabgbmufauonua,gmvnrlxgiklnulu gbmuf
voog.upkzugmrf,gmuguvzluabotgv fklramu gbmufgbkgivofgbmkaugirnro
 raaularkla,gvl gbmvbgunuztgklugfrxmbgpzuuot,gvl gqrbmksbgpuvz,gpkookq
mragkqlgzuorxrkljggQmrimgmugbmugfkzugau soksaotgakorirbu ,grlgmkwugbmvb
bmragoriuliugqkso gvsxfulbgbmugaimrafagvl gpvibrklagkpgbmurzg rnrarkl,
vl gmrl uzgbmugwukwougpzkfgzuslrbrlx,gvl giklauesulbotgpkzbrptrlx
bmufauonuagvxvrlabgmrfg.tgbmurzgslvlrfksagrlbuoorxuliugvl giklikz ;
mvnrlxguhwuzruliu g.tgbmugizsuobtgkpgakfugImzrabrvla,gbmvbgbmuzugraglk
.uvabgrlgbmugqkzo gakgfsimgbkg.ugpuvzu g.tgfvlgvagfvl;gbmuaugvzugnuzt
luvzotgmragqkz aj

Qmuzurlgbmragragnuztgqkzbmtgkpgiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgbmugUfwuzkzgYsorvl
fv ugsaugkpgbmugavfugzuiurwbgkpgor.uzbtgkpgiklairuliugbkgrlpovfugbmu
irnrog raaularklagbmvbgkszgcrlxag kgbkguhbrlxsramgbmufjggAkgbmvbgvgfvl
fvtgavtgklgklugar u,gbmvbgbkgxrnugbmugwukwougbmugzurlagbkgulbuzbvrlgunuzt
fvlgmragkqlgkwrlrkl,gragbkgaivbbuzgvl gakqg rnrarkl,gvl ,gvagrbgquzu,gbk
oul gvgmvl gbkgvsxfulbgrb,gbmuzug.urlxglkgouxvogrfwu rfulbgkzgzuabzvrlb
bkgabkwgkzgmrl uzgbmurzgivzuuz;g.sb,gklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gvgfvlgfvtgvoak
avt,gbmvbgbkgxrnugbmugwukwougbmugzurlagbkgulbuzbvrlgunuztgfvlgmragkql
kwrlrkl,gragbkgfkoorptgvl gvwwuvaugbmufg.tgpvirorbtgvl gbkouzvbrkl,gvl 
bkg soogbmugwkrlbgqmrimgragqmubbu gvl gfv ugamvzwuzg.tgarlxsovzrbt,
lknuobt,gvl g rpprisobt:gvl gRgbmrlcgrbgrag.ubbuzgpkzgbmugmklkszgkpgbmu
 unkbrklgkpgkszgcrlxa,gbmvbglkbgmvnrlxg.uulgv.ougbkg kgqmvbgbmutgqkso ,
bmutgmvnugfv ugvgamkqgkpg.urlxgqroorlxgbkg kgqmvbgbmutgikso j




IMVWBUZgHH

BMVBgQUgBVABUgLKBMRLXgWSZU

Bmugpuu.ouluaagkpgkszgikl rbrklgragasimgbmvbgbmrlxagivllkb,grlgbmurz
lvbszvogarfworirbtgvl gwszrbt,gpvoogrlbkgkszgsau;gbmuguoufulbagbmvbgqu
ulyktgvzugimvlxu ,gvl gakg‘bragqrbmgfubvoa;gvl gxko gfsabg.ug u.vau gqrbm
akfugkbmuzgfvbbuzgbkgprbgrbgpkzgkszgauznriujggLurbmuzgmvagnrzbsu,gak
arfwougvagbmvbgqmrimgVzrabk,gWtzzmk,gvl gvoakgbmugAbkria,gfv ugbmugul gkp
orpu;glkzgbmugItzulvrigvl gVzrabrwwrigwouvaszu,g.uulgqrbmksbgfrhbszu
saupsogbkgrbjggKpgbmugwouvaszugvl gxkk agbmvbgqugulykt,gbmuzugraglkbgklu
uhufwbgpzkfgakfugfrhbszugkpgroogvl grliklnulruliu:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Fu rkg ugpklbugouwkzsf,
ggggggggggAszxrbgvfvzrgvoresr ,gesk grlgrwaragprkzr.sagvlxvbj”

ggggg[“Pzkfgbmugnuztgpkslbvrlgkpgkszgwouvaszu,gakfubmrlxgzrauagbmvbgra
ggggg.rbbuz,gqmrimgunulgrlgpokquzag uabzktaj”--Osizubrsa,grnjg1130j]

Kszguhbzufuabgwouvaszugmvagakfugakzbgkpgxzkvlrlxgvl gikfwovrlrlxgrlgrb;
qkso gtksglkbgavtgbmvbgrbgrag trlxgkpgwvrl?ggLvt,gqmulgqugpzvfugbmugrfvxu
kpgrbgrlgrbagpsooguhiuoouliu,gqugabsppgrbgqrbmgaricotgvl gwvrlpso
uwrbmubagvl gesvorbrua,govlxskz,gakpbluaa,gpuu.ouluaa,gpvrlbluaa,
‘fkz.r uddv’:gvgxzuvbgbuabrfkltgkpgbmurzgiklavlxsrlrbtgvl 
iklas.abvlbrvorbtjggBmugfkabgwzkpksl gyktgmvagfkzugkpgaunuzrbtgbmvl
xvrubt,grlgrbjggBmugmrxmuabgvl gpsoouabgiklbulbfulbgkppuzagfkzugkpgbmu
xzvnugbmvlgkpgbmugfuzzt:

ggggggggggggggg“Rwavgpuorirbva,gauglrargbufwuzvb,gwzufrbj”

gggggggggg[“Unulgpuorirbt,gslouaagrbgfk uzvbugrbauop,gkwwzuaaua?”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwjg74j]

Wouvaszugimuqagvl gxzrl agsa;gviikz rlxgbkgbmugko gXzuucgnuzau,gqmrim
avtagbmvbgbmugxk agauoogsagvoogbmugxkk agbmutgxrnugsa;gbmvbgragbkgavt,
bmvbgbmutgxrnugsaglkbmrlxgwszugvl gwuzpuib,gvl gbmvbgqug kglkbgwszimvau
.sbgvbgbmugwzriugkpgakfugunroj

Ov.kszgvl gwouvaszu,gnuztgslorcugrlglvbszu,gvaakirvbu,glunuzbmuouaa,
.tgRgclkqglkbgqmvbglvbszvogiklyslibrkljggAkizvbuagavta,gbmvbgakfugxk 
bzru gbkgfrhgrlgklugfvaagvl gbkgiklpksl gwvrlgvl gwouvaszu,g.sbglkbg.urlx
v.ougbkg kgrb;gmug.ubmksxmbgmrfgvbgouvabgbkgikswougbmufg.tgbmugbvroj
Fubzk kzsagavr ,gbmvbgrlgakzzkqgbmuzugragakfugfrhbszugkpgwouvaszujggR
clkqglkbgqmubmuzgkzglkgmugrlbul u gvltbmrlxguoaug.tgbmvbgavtrlx;g.sbgpkz
ftgwvzb,gRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmuzugrag uarxl,giklaulb,gvl gikfwoviulit
rlgxrnrlxgvgfvl’agauopgswgbkgfuovlimkotjgRgavt,gbmvbg.uar uagvf.rbrkl,
qmrimgfvtgvoakgmvnugvgabzkcugrlgbmug.sarluaa,gbmuzugragakfugamv kqgkp
 uorxmbgvl g uorivitgqmrimgafrouagswklgvl gpovbbuzagsagunulgrlgbmugnuzt
ovwgkpgfuovlimkotjggVzugbmuzuglkbgakfugiklabrbsbrklagbmvbgpuu gswklgrb?

gggggggggggggggggggg“Uabgesvu vfgpouzugnkoswbva;”

ggggggggggggggg[“‘Bragvgiuzbvrlgcrl gkpgwouvaszugbkgquuwj”
gggggggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grnjgg3,g27j]

vl gklugVbbvosagrlgAuluivgavta,gbmvbgbmugfufkztgkpgkszgokabgpzrul agragva
xzvbupsogbkgsa,gvag.rbbuzluaagrlgqrlu,gqmulgbkkgko ,gragbkgbmugwvovbu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Frlrabuzgnubsor,gwsuz,gPvouzlr
ggggggggggggggggggggRlxuz’gfrgivoriuagvfvzrkzua”--

ggggg[“.kt,gqmulgtksgwkszgksbgko gPvouzlrvlgqrlu,gbmug.rbbuzuabgwsb
gggggrlbkgftg.kqoj”--Ivbsoosa,ghhnrrjgRj]

vl gvagvwwouagbmvbgmvnugvgaquubgbvzbluaaj

Lvbszug raiknuzagbmragiklpsarklgbkgsa;gwvrlbuzagmko gbmvbgbmugavfu
fkbrklagvl gxzrfviuagkpgbmugpviugbmvbgauznugpkzgquuwrlx;gauznugpkz
ovsxmbuzgbkk;gvl grl uu ,g.upkzugbmugklugkzgbmugkbmuzg.ugprlramu ,g kg.sb
k.auznugbmugwvrlbuz’agfvlluzgkpgmvl orlx,gvl gtksgqroog.ugrlg ks.bgbk
qmrimgkpgbmugbqkgbmug uarxlgbul a;gvl gbmuguhbzufugkpgovsxmbuzg kuagvb
ovabg.zrlxgbuvza:

ggggggggggggggg“Lsoosfgarlugvsibkzvfulbkgfvosfguabj”

gggggggggg[“Lkgunrogragqrbmksbgrbagikfwulavbrklj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g69j]

QmulgRgrfvxrlugfvlgv.ksl rlxgqrbmgvoogbmugiklnulruliuagbmvbgvzugbkg.u
 uarzu g(oubgsagwsbgbmugivaugbmvbgvoogmragfuf.uzagquzugvoqvtagaurdu gqrbm
vgwouvaszugorcugbmvbgkpgxuluzvbrkl,grlgrbagfkabguhiuaarnugmurxmb)gRgpuuo
mrfgfuobrlxgsl uzgbmugqurxmbgkpgmrag uorxmb,gvl gauugmrfgsbbuzotgslv.ou
bkgaswwkzbgakgwszu,gakgiklbrlsvo,gvl gakgslrnuzavogvgwouvaszujggRl uu ,
mugragzsllrlxgvqvtgqmroabgmugragbmuzu,gvl glvbszvootgfvcuagmvabugbk
uaivwu,gvagpzkfgvgwoviugqmuzugmugivllkbgabvl gprzf,gvl gqmuzugmugra
vpzvr gkpgarlcrlxj

QmulgRgzuorxrksaotgiklpuaagftauopgbkgftauop,gRgprl gbmvbgbmug.uabgnrzbsu
Rgmvnugmvagrlgrbgakfugbrlibszugkpgnriu;gvl gRgvfgvpzvr gbmvbgWovbk,grl
mragwszuabgnrzbsug(R,gqmkgvfgvagarliuzugvl goktvogvgoknuzgkpgnrzbsugkp
bmvbgabvfwgvagvltgkbmuzgqmvbunuz),grpgmugmv gorabulu gvl govr gmraguvz
iokaugbkgmrfauopgvl gmug r gakglkg ks.b--qkso gmvnugmuvz gakfugyvzzrlx
lkbugkpgmsfvlgfrhbszu,g.sbgpvrlbgvl gklotgwuziuwbr.ougbkgmrfauopjggFvlgra
qmkootgvl gbmzksxmksbg.sbgwvbimgvl gfkboutjggUnulgbmugovqagkpgysabriu
bmufauonuagivllkbgas.arabgqrbmksbgfrhbszugkpgrlysabriu;grlakfsimgbmvb
Wovbkgavta,gbmutgsl uzbvcugbkgisbgkppgbmugmt zv’agmuv ,gqmkgwzubul gbk
iouvzgbmugovqgkpgvoogrliklnulruliua:

gggggggggg“Kflugfvxlsfguhufwosfgmv.ubgvoresr guhgrlresk,
ggggggggggesk giklbzvgarlxsokagsbrorbvbugws.oriagzuwul rbsz,”

ggggg[“Unuztgxzuvbguhvfwougmvagrlgrbgakfugfrhbszugkpgrlysabriu,gqmrim
gggggzuikfwulauagbmugqzklxg klugbkgwvzbrisovzgfulg.tgbmugws.origsbrorbtj”
gggggg--Vllvoa,ghrnjg44j]

avtagBvirbsaj

Rbgragorcuqraugbzsu,gbmvbgpkzgbmugsaugkpgorpugvl gbmugauznriugkpgws.ori
ikffuziu,gbmuzugfvtg.ugakfuguhiuaauagrlgbmugwszrbtgvl gwuzawrivirbtgkp
kszgfrl a;gbmvbgwulubzvbrlxgorxmbgmvagrlgrbgbkkgfsimgkpgas.boubtgvl 
iszrkarbt:gqugfsabgvgorbbougabswuptgvl g.oslbgbmufgbkgzul uzgbmufgfkzu
k.u rulbgbkguhvfwougvl gwzvibriu,gvl gvgorbbougnurogvl gk.aiszugbmuf,gbmu
.ubbuzgbkgwzkwkzbrklgbmufgbkgbmrag vzcgvl guvzbmotgorpujggVl gbmuzupkzu
ikffklgvl gouaagawuisovbrnugaksoagvzugpksl gbkg.ugfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgvl 
fkzugasiiuaapsogrlgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgvppvrza,gvl gbmuguounvbu gvl 
uhesrarbugkwrlrklagkpgwmrokakwmtgslprbgpkzg.sarluaajggBmragamvzwgnrnvirbt
kpgakso,gvl gbmugaswwougvl gzuabouaagnkos.rorbtgvbbul rlxgrb,g rabsz.gksz
luxkbrvbrklajggQugvzugbkgfvlvxugmsfvlgulbuzwzrauagfkzugaswuzprirvootgvl 
zksxmot,gvl gouvnugvgxzuvbgwvzbgbkgpkzbslu;grbgraglkbgluiuaavztgbk
uhvfrlugvppvrzagqrbmgakgfsimgas.boubtgvl gakg uuw:gvgfvlgokauagmrfauopgrl
bmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgfvltgiklbzvztgosabzua,gvl gakgfvltgnvzrksagpkzfa:

ggggg“Nkosbvlbr.sagzuagrlbuzgaugwsxlvlbua,gk.bkzwsuzslbjjjjgvlrfrj”

ggggg[“Qmroabgbmutgiklar uzu gkpgbmrlxagakgrl rppuzulbgrlgbmufauonua,
gggggbmutgquzugvabklramu ,gvl gcluqglkbgqmvbgbkg kj”--Ornt,ghhhrrjg20j]

‘BragqmvbgbmugvlirulbagavtgkpgArfklr ua,gbmvbg.tgzuvaklgmragrfvxrlvbrkl
asxxuabu gbkgmrf,gswklgbmugesuabrklgCrlxgMruzkgmv gwsbgbkgmrf--[QmvbgXk 
qvaj--Iriuzk,g ugLvbjgg ukzj,grjgg22j]--(bkgvlaquzgqmrimgmugmv gmv gfvlt
 vtagpkzgbmksxmb),gaunuzvogamvzwgvl gas.bougiklar uzvbrkla,gqmroabgmu
 ks.bu gqmrimgqvagbmugfkabgorcuot,gmugbkbvootg uawvrzu gkpgbmugbzsbmj

Mugqmkg rnuagrlbkgvl grlgmragrlesrarbrklgikfwzumul agvoogirzisfabvliua
vl giklauesuliua,gmrl uzagmraguouibrkl:gvgorbbougulxrlugquoogmvl ou gra
aspprirulbgpkzguhuisbrkla,gqmubmuzgkpgouaagkzgxzuvbuzgqurxmbjggBmug.uab
fvlvxuzagvzugbmkaugqmkgivlgqkzabgxrnugviikslbgmkqgbmutgvzugak;gqmrougbmu
xzuvbuabgbvocuza,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,g kglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkau;gRgclkqgklugkp
bmragakzbgkpgful,gvl gvgfkabguhiuooulbg raikszauzgswklgvoogakzbagkpgxkk 
msa.vl zt,gqmkgmvagfrauzv.otgoubgvgmsl zu gbmksavl gornzuagtuvzotgzunulsu
aorwgbmzksxmgmragmvl a;gRgclkqgvlkbmuzgqmkgbvoca,gqmkg.ubbuzgv nrauagbmvl
vltgfvlgkpgmragikslauo,gvl gbmuzugraglkbgrlgbmugqkzo gvgpvrzuzgamkqgkp
aksogvl gsl uzabvl rlxgbmvlgmugmva;glunuzbmuouaa,gqmulgmugikfuagbkgbmu
buab,gmragauznvlbagprl gmrfgesrbugvlkbmuzgbmrlx;glkbgbkgfvcugvltgfulbrkl
kpgmragfrapkzbsluaj




IMVWBUZgHHR

VXVRLABgR OULUAA

BmugUfwuzkzgNuawvarvl,g.urlxgaricgkpgbmug rauvaugqmuzukpgmug ru ,g r glkb
pkzgvoogbmvbgluxouibgbkgrlesrzugvpbuzgbmugabvbugkpgbmugufwrzu,gvl gunul
rlg.u giklbrlsvootg uawvbimu gnuztgfvltgvppvrzagkpgxzuvbgiklauesuliu;gpkz
qmrim,g.urlxgzuwzknu g.tgmragwmtarirvl,gvagvgbmrlxgwzuys rirvogbkgmra
muvobm,g“Vlgufwuzkz,”gavr gmu,g“fsabg rugabvl rlxj”ggVgprlugavtrlx,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gvl gqkzbmtgvgxzuvbgwzrliujggBmugUfwuzkzgV zrvlgarliugfv ugsaugkp
bmugavfugqkz a,gvl gcrlxagamkso g.ugkpbulgwsbgrlgfrl gkpgbmuf,gbkgfvcu
bmufgclkqgbmvbgbmugxzuvbgkppriugiklpuzzu gswklgbmufgkpgbmugikffvl gkpgak
fvltgful,graglkbgvlgufwoktfulbgkpguvau;gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgivlgak
ysabotg raxsabgvgas.yuib,gvl gfvcugmrfgslqroorlxgbkguhwkaugmrfauopgbk
ov.kszgvl g vlxuzgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgmragwzrliu,gbmvlgbkgauugmrf,grlgbmu
fuvlbrfu,g unkbu gbkgmraguvaugvl gpzrnkoksagvfsaufulb,gvl gbkg.u
akorirbksagkpgmragwzuauznvbrklgqmkgakgfsimgluxouibagbmvbgkpgmragwukwouj

Qmkunuzgqroogbvcugswklgmrfgbkgfvrlbvrlgbmvbg‘brag.ubbuzgpkzgvgwzrliugbk
ivzztgklgmragqvzag.tgkbmuza,gbmvlgrlgmragkqlgwuzakl,gpkzbslugqroogpszlram
mrfgqrbmguhvfwouagulksxmgkpgbmkaugqmkaugorusbulvlbagmvnug.zksxmbgxzuvb
ulbuzwzrauagbkgvgmvwwtgraasu,gvl gkpgbmkaugvoakgqmkaugwzuauliugmvag klu
fkzugmszbgbmvlgxkk :g.sbglkgnrzbsksagvl gnvorvlbgwzrliugivlgqrbmgwvbruliu
ul szugakg ramklkszv.ougiksliroajggSl uzgikokszgkpgavnrlxgmragmuv ,gorcu
bmugabvbsugkpgvgavrlb,gpkzgbmugmvwwrluaagkpgmragcrlx kf,gbmutg uxzv ugmrf
pzkfgvl g uiovzugmrfgrlivwv.ougkpgmragkppriu,gqmrimgragfrorbvzt
bmzksxmksb:gRgclkqgklu--[Wzk.v.otgMulztgRNj]--qmkgmv gfsimgzvbmuzg.u
.uvbul,gbmvlgbkgaouuwgqmroabgvlkbmuzgprxmbagpkzgmrf;gvl gqmkglunuz
qrbmksbgyuvoksatgmuvz gkpgvltg.zvnugbmrlxg klugunulg.tgmragkqlgkppriuza
rlgmragv.auliujggVl gAkorfvlgRjgavr ,gqrbmgnuztgxkk gzuvakl,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gbmvbgnribkzruagk.bvrlu gqrbmksbgbmugfvabuzgquzuglunuzgikfwoubuj
Fsimgfkzugqkso gmugmvnugavr gbmvbgbmvbgfvabuzgksxmbgbkg.osamgpkzgamvfu,
bkgwzubul gbkgvltgamvzugrlgbmugmklksz,gmvnrlxgiklbzr.sbu glkbmrlxgbkgbmu
qkzc,g.sbgmragnkriugvl gbmksxmb;glkzgunulgakgfsimgvagbmuau,giklar uzrlx
bmvbgrlgasimgqkzcgvagbmvb,gbmug rzuibrklgvl gikffvl gbmvbg uauznugmklksz
vzugklotgasimgvagvzugxrnulgswklgbmugawkb,gvl grlgbmugmuvbgkpgbmu
.sarluaajggLkgwrokbgwuzpkzfagmragkppriug.tgabvl rlxgabroojggBmugwzrliua
kpgbmugKbbkfvlgpvfrot,gbmugimrupuabgrlgbmugqkzo grlgfrorbvztgpkzbslu,
mvnugqvzfotguf.zviu gbmragkwrlrkl,gvl g.vyvdubgRRj,gqrbmgmragakl,gqmk
aquznu gpzkfgrb,gawul rlxgbmurzgbrfugrlgairuliugvl gkbmuzgzubrzu 
ufwoktfulba,gxvnugxzuvbg.okqagbkgbmurzgufwrzu;gvl gVfszvbmgRRRj,glkq
zurxlrlx,gpkookqrlxgbmurzguhvfwou,g.uxrlagbkgprl gbmugavfujggQvagrbglkb
U qvz gRRRj,gCrlxgkpgUlxovl ,gqmkgavr gbmragkpgkszgImvzouagNj:g“Bmuzu
lunuzgqvagcrlxgqmkgakgauo kfgwsbgklgmragvzfksz,gvl gtubglunuzgcrlxgqmk
xvnugfugakgfsimgbkg kj”ggMugmv gzuvaklgbkgbmrlcgrbgabzvlxu,gvagvlguppuib
kpgimvliugfkzugbmvlgkpgzuvakljggVl goubgbmkaugauucgksbgakfugkbmuzgbkgykrl
qrbmgbmufgbmvlgfu,gqmkgqroogzuicklgbmugCrlxagkpgIvabrougvl gWkzbsxvo
vfklxabgbmugqvzorcugvl gfvxlvlrfksagiklesuzkza,g.uivsaugvbgbmug rabvliu
kpgbquonugmsl zu gouvxsuagpzkfgbmurzgovdtgv.k u,g.tgbmugikl sibgkpgbmurz
ivwbvrla,gbmutgfv ugbmufauonuagfvabuzagkpg.kbmgRl rua;gkpgqmrimgrbgmvagbk
.ugclkqlgrpgbmutgqkso gmvnugmv gunulgbmugikszvxugbkgxkgvl grlgwuzakl
ulyktgbmufj

BmugUfwuzkzgYsorvlgavr gtubgpszbmuz,gbmvbgvgwmrokakwmuzgvl gvg.zvnugfvl
ksxmbglkbgakgfsimgvagbkg.zuvbmu;gbmvbgragbkgavt,glkbgbkgvookqgvltgfkzugbk
.k rotgluiuaarbruagbmvlgqmvbgqugivllkbgzupsau;gcuuwrlxgbmugaksogvl g.k t
abroogrlbulbgvl g.satgv.ksbgmklkszv.ou,gxzuvb,gvl gnrzbsksagbmrlxajggMu
qvagvamvfu grpgvltgklugrlgws.origavqgmrfgawrb,gkzgaquvbg(qmrimgragavr g.t
akfu,gvoak,gkpgbmugOviu vufklrvlgtkslxgful,gvl gqmrimgHulkwmklgavtagkp
bmugWuzarvl),gpkzvafsimgvagmugikliurnu gbmvbguhuzirau,giklbrlsvogov.ksz,
vl gak.zrubt,gksxmbgbkgmvnug zru gswgvoogbmkaugaswuzposrbruajggQmvb
Auluivgavtagqrooglkbg.ugslprbgpkzgbmragwoviu;gqmrimgra,gbmvbgbmugvlirulb
Zkfvlagcuwbgbmurzgtksbmgvoqvtagabvl rlx,gvl gbvsxmbgbmufglkbmrlxgbmvb
bmutgquzugbkgouvzlgarbbrlxj

‘Bragvgxuluzksag uarzugbkgqramgbkg rugsaupsootgvl gorcugvgfvl,g.sbgbmu
uppuibgoruaglkbgakgfsimgrlgkszgzuakosbrklgvagrlgkszgxkk gpkzbslu;gv
bmksavl gmvnugwzkwkau gbkgbmufauonuagrlg.vbbou,gurbmuzgbkgknuzikfugkzgbk
 ru,gqmkgmvnugpvrou g.kbmgrlgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,gqksl agvl 
rfwzraklfulbgizkaarlxgbmurzg uarxlgvl gikfwuoorlxgbmufgbkgornugvxvrlab
bmurzgqroojggBmuzugvzug rauvauagbmvbgknuzbmzkqgunulgkszg uarzua,gvl gksz
clkqou xujggPkzbslugksxmbglkbgbkgauikl gbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmugZkfvlgouxrkla,
qmkg.ksl gbmufauonuag.tgkvbm,gurbmuzgbkgknuzikfugkzg ru:

ggggg“Nribkz,gFvziugPv.r,gzunuzbvzguhgviru:gargpvook,gYknufgwvbzuf,
gggggXzv rnsfesugFvzbufgvorkaesugrzvbkagrlnkikg ukaj”

ggggg[“Rgqroogzubszl,gFvzisagPv.rsa,gvgiklesuzkz,gpzkfgbmugprxmb:
gggggvl grpgRgpvro,gRgrlnkcugPvbmuzgYknu,gFvzagXzv rnsa,gvl gbmu
gggggkbmuzgvlxztgxk aj”--Ornt,grrjg45j]

BmugWkzbsxsuaugavtgbmvbgrlgvgiuzbvrlgwoviugkpgbmurzgiklesuabgkpgbmu
Rl rua,gbmutgfubgqrbmgako ruzagqmkgmv gikl uflu gbmufauonua,gqrbm
mkzzr.ouguhuizvbrkla,gbkgulbuzgrlbkglkgkbmuzgikfwkarbrklg.sbgurbmuzgbk
ivsaugbmufauonuagbkg.ugaovrl,gkzgbkgzufvrlgnribkzrksa;gvl gmv gbmurz
muv agvl g.uvz agamvnu grlgbkculgkpgbmragnkqjgg‘Bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugpkz
sagbkgmvdvz gkszauonuagvl gbkg.ugk.abrlvbu:grbgauufagvagrpg.okqagvnkr u 
bmkaugqmkgwzuaulbgbmufauonuagbkkg.zracotgbkgbmuf,gvl g kglkbgqroorlxot
pvoogswklgbmkaugqmkgbkkgqroorlxotgauucgbmuf,gvl gakg upuvbgbmufgkpgbmurz
 uarxljggAsimgbmuzugmvnug.uul,gqmk,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgbzru gvoogqvta,glkb
mvnrlxg.uulgv.ougqrbmgvoogbmurzgul uvnkszgbkgk.bvrlgbmugpvnkszgkpg trlx
.tgbmugmvl gkpgbmuguluft,gmvnug.uulgiklabzvrlu ,gbkgfvcugxkk gbmurz
zuakosbrklgkpg.zrlxrlxgmkfugbmugmklkszgkpgnribkztgkzgkpgokarlxgbmurz
ornua,gbkgcroogbmufauonuagunulgrlgbmugmuvbgkpg.vbboujggKpgqmrimgbmuzugvzu
kbmuzguhvfwoua,g.sbgbmragragklu:gWmrorabsa,gxuluzvogkpgbmuglvnvogvzftgkp
 rkltarsagbmugtkslxuzgvxvrlabgbmugAtzvisavla,gwzuaulbu gbmufg.vbbougqmrim
qvagamvzwotg rawsbu ,gbmurzgpkziuag.urlxguesvo:grlgbmragulxvxufulb,gmu
mv gbmug.ubbuzgvbgbmugprzab,gbmzksxmgmragkqlgnvoksz:g.sbgbmugAtzvisavla
 zvqrlxgv.ksbgmragxvootgbkgulnrzklgmrf,gvpbuzgmvnrlxg klugxzuvbgbmrlxagrl
mragkqlgwuzaklgbkg raulxvxugmrfauopgvl gmkwrlxgpkzglkgzuorup,gqrbmgmra
kqlgmvl gmugbkkcgvqvtgbmugorpugmugmv gakgor.uzvoot,gvl grlgnvrl,guhwkau 
bkgbmuguluftj

FsougFkokim,gcrlxgkpgPud,gqmkgovbuotgqklgvxvrlabgAu.vabrvl,gcrlxgkp
Wkzbsxvo,gbmug.vbbougakgpvfksagpkzgbmug uvbmgkpgbmzuugcrlxa,gvl gpkzgbmu
bzvlafraarklgkpgbmvbgxzuvbgcrlx kfgbkgbmugizkqlgkpgIvabrou,gqvaguhbzufuot
aricgqmulgbmugWkzbsxsuaugulbuzu grlgvlgmkabrougfvlluzgrlbkgmrag kfrlrkla;
vl gpzkfgbmvbg vtgpkzqvz gxzuqgqkzaugvl gqkzau,gabroog zvqrlxgluvzuzgbk
vl gpkzuauurlxgmragul ;gtubglunuzg r gfvlg.ubbuzgufwoktgmragkql
aspprirulitgfkzugnrxkzksaotgvl g.zvnuotgbmvlgmug r gswklgbmragkiivarklj
Mugpksl gmrfauopgbkkgquvcgbkgsl uzxkgbmugwkfwgvl giuzufkltgkpgulbuzrlxj
rlbkgmragivfw,gqmrimgvpbuzgbmurzgfvlluzgragnuztgfvxlrpriulb,gvl 
bmuzupkzugzuarxlu gbmvbgmklkszgbkgmrag.zkbmuz;g.sbgbmragqvagvoogkpgbmu
kppriugkpgvgxuluzvogbmvbgmugzuarxlu ;gvoogbmugzuabgkpgxzuvbuabgsbrorbt
vl gluiuaarbtgmugfkab,guhvibotgvl gxokzrksaotgwuzpkzfu grlgmragkql
wuzakl;gmrag.k tgotrlxgswklgvgiksim,g.sbgmragys xfulbgvl gikszvxugswzrxmb
vl gprzfgbkgmragovabgxvaw,gvl grlgakfugakzbg.utkl grbjggMugfrxmbgmvnu
qvabu gmraguluft,grl raizuubotgv nvliu grlbkgmrag kfrlrkla,gqrbmksb
abzrcrlxgvg.okq;gvl grbgqvagvgnuztgslmvwwtgkiiszzuliu,gbmvbgpkzgqvlbgkpgv
orbbougorpugkzgakfu.k tgbkgas.abrbsbugrlgbmugikl sibgkpgbmragqvzgvl gbmu
vppvrzagkpgvgbzks.ou gabvbu,gmugqvagikfwuoou gbkgauucgvg ks.bpsogvl 
.okk tgnribkzt,gmvnrlxgvlkbmuzg.tgvg.ubbuzgvl gaszuzgqvtgvozuv tgrlgmra
mvl ajggLkbqrbmabvl rlx,gmugqkl uzpsootgfvlvxu gbmugiklbrlsvliugkpgmra
aricluaagrlgiklasfrlxgbmuguluft,gvl grlg zvqrlxgbmufgpvzgpzkfgbmu
vaarabvliugkpgbmuglvntgvl gbmugwkzbagbmutgmv gklgbmugikvabgkpgVpzriv,
unulgbroogbmugovabg vtgkpgmragorpu,gqmrimgmug uarxlu otgzuauznu gpkzgbmra
xzuvbg.vbboujggMugvzzvlxu gmrag.vbbvorklagrlgvgirzisovzgpkzf,gulnrzklrlx
bmugWkzbsxsuaugvzftgklgunuztgar u,gqmrimgzksl girziougikfrlxgbkgiokaugrl
vl gbkg zvqgswgiokaugbkxubmuz,glkbgklotgmrl uzu gbmufgrlgbmugiklporib
(qmrimgqvagnuztgamvzwgbmzksxmgbmugnvokszgkpgbmugtkslxgrlnv rlxgcrlx),
iklar uzrlxgbmvbgbmutgmv gunuztgqvtgbkgwzuaulbgvgpzklb,g.sbgwzunulbu 
bmurzgporxmbgvpbuzgbmug upuvb,gakgbmvbgprl rlxgvoogwvaavxuagwkaauaau gvl 
amsbgswg.tgbmuguluft,gbmutgquzugiklabzvrlu gbkgiokaugswgbkxubmuzgvxvrl:

gggggggggg“Ikviuznulbszesuglklgakosfgivu u,gau gubrvfgpsxv,”

gggggggggg[“Wrou gswglkbgklotgrlgaovsxmbuzg.sbgrlgporxmbj”]

vl gbmuzugbmutgquzugaovrlgrlgmuvwagswklgklugvlkbmuz,gouvnrlxgbkgbmu
iklesuzkzgvgnuztg.okk tgvl gulbrzugnribkztjgg trlx,gmugivsau gmrfauopgbk
.ugivzzru gvl gmszzru gpzkfgwoviugbkgwoviugqmuzugfkabgluu gqva,gvl 
wvaarlxgvoklxgbmugproua,gulikszvxu gbmugivwbvrlagvl gako ruzagklugvpbuz
vlkbmuz;g.sbgvgikzluzgkpgmragfvrlg.vbbvorklag.urlxg.zkcul,gmugqvaglkbgbk
.ugmuo gpzkfgfkslbrlxgklgmkzau.vicgqrbmgmragaqkz grlgmragmvl ;gmug r gmra
sbfkabgbkg.zuvcgpzkfgbmkaugv.ksbgmrf,gvl gbkgzsamgrlbkgbmugbmricuabgkp
bmug.vbbou,gbmutgvoogbmugqmrougqrbmmko rlxgmrf,gakfug.tgbmug.zr ou,gakfu
.tgmragzk.u,gvl gkbmuzag.tgmragabrzzswajggBmragovabguppkzbgbkbvoot
knuzqmuofu gbmugorbbougorpugmugmv goupb;gbmutgvxvrlgovr gmrfgswklgmra
.u ;g.sbgikfrlxgbkgmrfauop,gvl gabvzbrlxgvagrbgquzugksbgkpgmragaqkkl,gvoo
kbmuzgpvisobruagpvrorlx,gbkgxrnugmragwukwouglkbriugbmvbgbmutgquzugbk
ikliuvogmrag uvbmgbmugfkabgluiuaavztgikffvl gmugmv gbmulgbkgxrnu,gbmvb
mragako ruzagfrxmbglkbg.ug raikszvxu g(qrbmgbmugluqa)gmuguhwrzu gqrbmgmra
prlxuzgswklgmragfksbm,gbmugkz rlvztgarxlgkpgcuuwrlxgarouliujggQmkgunuz
ornu gakgoklxgvl gakgpvzgrlbkg uvbm?gqmkunuzg ru gakguzuib,gkzgfkzugorcu
vgfvl?

Bmugfkabguhbzufug uxzuugkpgikszvxuksaotgbzuvbrlxg uvbm,gvl gbmugfkab
lvbszvo,gragbkgokkcgswklgrbglkbgklotgqrbmksbgvabklramfulbg.sbgqrbmksb
ivzu,giklbrlsrlxgbmugqklbu gikszaugkpgorpugunulgrlbkgrb,gvagIvbkg r ,
qmkgulbuzbvrlu gmrfauopgrlgabs t,gvl gqulbgbkgaouuw,gmvnrlxgvgnrkoulbgvl 
.okk tg uvbmgrlgmragmuvzb,gvl gbmugquvwklgrlgmragmvl gqrbmgqmrimgmugqva
zuakonu gbkg uawvbimgmrfauopj




IMVWBUZgHHRR

KPgWKABRLX

Rgmvnug.uulglklugkpgbmugouvabgv.ougrlgbmraguhuzirau,gqmrimgragwzkwuzgpkz
fulgkpgftgwrbim,gquoo-clrbgvl gamkzb;g.sbgRgxrnugrbgknuz;grbgamvcuagsa
bkkgfsimgbkgiklbrlsugrbgoklxjggRgqvagvbgbmragfkfulbgzuv rlx,ggbmvbgCrlx
Itzsa,gbmug.ubbuzgbkgmvnugluqag.zksxmbgmrfgpzkfgvoogwvzbagkpgbmugufwrzu,
qmrimgqvagkpgvgnvabguhbulb,givsau grbgbkg.ugbzru gmkqgpvzgvgmkzaugikso 
xkgrlgvg vtgqrbmksbg.vrbrlx,gvl gvbgbmvbg rabvliugvwwkrlbu gful,gqmkau
.sarluaagrbgqvagbkgmvnugmkzauagvoqvtagrlgzuv rluaa,gbkgfkslbgbmkaugqmk
quzug uawvbimu gbkgmrf;gvl gakfugavt,gbmvbgbmragaqrpbgqvtgkpgwkabrlxgra
uesvogbkgbmvbgkpgbmugporxmbgkpgizvluaj

Ivuavzgavta,gbmvbgOsirsagNr.soorsagZspsa,g.urlxgrlgxzuvbgmvabugbkgivzzt
rlbuoorxuliugbkgWkfwut,gzk uglrxmbgvl g vt,gabroogbvcrlxgpzuamgmkzauagpkz
bmugxzuvbuzg rorxuliugvl gawuu ;gvl gmugmrfauop,gvagAsubklrsagzuwkzba,
bzvnuoou gvgmsl zu gfrouagvg vtgrlgvgmrzu gikvim;g.sbgmugqvagvgpszrksa
ikszruz,gpkzgqmuzugbmugzrnuzagabkwwu gmragqvtgmugwvaau gbmufg.tgaqrffrlx,
qrbmksbgbszlrlxgksbgkpgmragqvtgbkgokkcgpkzgurbmuzg.zr xugkzgpkz j
Br.uzrsagLuzk,gxkrlxgbkgauugmrag.zkbmuzg zsasa,gqmkgqvagaricgrlgXuzfvlt,
bzvnuoou gbqkgmsl zu gfrouagrlgpksz-vl -bqulbtgmksza,gmvnrlxgbmzuu
ikvimuajggRlgbmugqvzgkpgbmugZkfvlagvxvrlabgCrlxgVlbrkimsa,gBjgAufwzklrsa
Xzviimsa,gavtagOrnt:

ggggggggg“Wuzg rawkarbkagueskagwzkwugrlizu r.rorgiuouzrbvbu
ggggggggggv.gVfwmraavgbuzbrkg rugWuoovfgwuznulrbj”

ggggg[“.tgwzu-vzzvlxu gzuovtagkpgmkzaua,gmu,gqrbmgvlgvofkabgrlizu r.ou
gggggawuu ,gzk ugrlgbmzuug vtagpzkfgVfwmraavgbkgWuoovj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghhhnrrjg7j]

Vl grbgvwwuvzagbmvbgbmutgquzuguabv.oramu gwkaba,gvl glkbgmkzauagwszwkauot
ovr grlgswklgbmragkiivarklj

Iuirlv’agrlnulbrklgbkgaul g.vicgluqagbkgmragpvfrotgqvagfsimgfkzugesric,
pkzgmugbkkcgaqvookqagvoklxgqrbmgmrfgpzkfgmkfu,gvl gbszlu gbmufgksb
bkqvz agbmurzgluabagqmulgmugqkso gaul g.vicgvltgluqa;gaubbrlxgvgfvzcgkp
akfugikokszgswklgbmufgbkgarxlrptgmragfuvlrlx,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgmugvl 
mragwukwougmv g.upkzugvxzuu gswklj

VbgbmugbmuvbzugvbgZkfugfvabuzagkpgpvfroruagivzzru gwrxuklagrlgbmurz
.kakfagbkgqmrimgbmutgbru goubbuzagqmulgbmutgmv gvgfrl gbkgaul gvltgkz uza
bkgbmurzgwukwougvbgmkfu;gvl gbmugwrxuklagquzugbzvrlu gswgbkg.zrlxg.vicgvl
vlaquzjgg jg.zsbsagfv ugsaugkpgbmugavfug unriugqmulg.uaruxu grlgFk ulv,
vl gkbmuzaguoauqmuzugmvnug klugbmugavfuj

RlgWuzsgbmutgzk ugwkabgswklgful,gqmkgbkkcgbmufgswklgbmurzgamkso uzagrlgv
iuzbvrlgcrl gkpgorbbuzagfv ugpkzgbmvbgwszwkau,gvl gzvlgqrbmgasimgvxrorbt
bmvb,grlgbmurzgpsoogawuu ,gbmugprzabgikszruzagbzvlapuzzu gbmurzgokv gbk
bmugauikl gqrbmksbgfvcrlxgvltgabkwj

Rgsl uzabvl gbmvbgbmugQvoovimrvla,gbmugxzvl gArxlrkz’agikszruza,gwuzpkzf
qkl uzpsogykszluta,g.tgzuvaklgbmutgmvnugor.uzbtgbkg rafkslbgbmugprzab
wuzaklgbmutgfuubgswklgbmugzkv ,gxrnrlxgmrfgbmurzgkqlgbrzu gmkzaua;gvl 
bmvbgbkgwzuauznugbmufauonuagpzkfg.urlxgquvzt,gbmutgxrz gbmufauonua
abzvrxmbgv.ksbgbmugfr  ougqrbmgvg.zkv gxrz ou;gg.sbgRgikso glunuzgprl 
vltg.uluprbgpzkfgbmraj




IMVWBUZgHHRRR

KPgROOgFUVLAgUFWOKTU gBKgVgXKK gUL 

Bmuzugragqkl uzpsogzuovbrklgvl gikzzuawkl uliugrlgbmragslrnuzavo
xknuzlfulbgkpgbmugqkzcagkpglvbszu,gqmrimgnuztgquoogfvcuagrbgvwwuvzgbmvb
rbgraglurbmuzgviir ulbvoglkzgivzzru gklg.tg rnuzagfvabuzajggBmug rauvaua
vl gikl rbrklagkpgkszg.k ruagvzu,grlgorcugfvlluz,gfvlrpuabgrlgabvbuagvl 
xknuzlfulba;gcrlx kfagvl gzuws.oriagvzugpksl u ,gpokszram,gvl g uivtgqrbm
vxugvagqug kjggQugvzugas.yuibgbkgvgzuwoubrklgkpgmsfksza,gsauouaagvl 
 vlxuzksa:gqmubmuzgkpgbmkaugbmvbgvzugxkk g(pkzgunulgbmkaugbmugwmtarirvla
vzugvpzvr gkp;gvl gauurlxgqugmvnuglkbmrlxgrlgsagbmvbgragabv.ou,gbmutgavt
bmvbgvgbkkg.zracgvl gnrxkzksagwuzpuibrklgkpgmuvobmgfsabg.ugv.vbu g.tgvzb,
ouabgkszglvbszu,gslv.ougbkgzuabgrlgvltgiuzbvrlgikl rbrkl,gvl glkbgmvnrlx
qmrbmuzgbkgzraugbkgful grbauop,gfvcugbkkgas  ulgvl gbkkg rakz uzotgv
zubzuvb;gvl gbmuzupkzugwzuaizr.ugqzuabouzagbkgwszxugvl g.ouu ,gbkgesvorpt
bmvbgaswuzv.sl vlbgmuvobm),gkzguoaugvgzuwoubrklgkpgunrogmsfksza,gqmrimgra
bmugkz rlvztgivsaugkpgaricluaajggAbvbuagvzugnuztgkpbulgaricgkpgbmugorcu
zuwoubrkl,gvl gnvzrksagakzbagkpgwszxvbrklagmvnugikffklotg.uulgvwworu j
Akfugbrfuagvgxzuvbgfsobrbs ugkpgpvfroruagvzugbszlu gksbgbkgiouvzgbmu
ikslbzt,gqmkgauucgksbgluqgv.k uaguoauqmuzugvl gulizkvimgswklgkbmuzaj
VpbuzgbmragfvlluzgkszgvlirulbgPzvlcagivfugpzkfgbmugzufkbuabgwvzbgkp
XuzfvltgbkgaurdugswklgXvso,gvl gbkg zrnugbmuliugbmugprzabgrlmv.rbvlba;
akgqvagbmvbgrlprlrbug uosxugkpgfulgfv ugswgqmkgivfugrlbkgRbvotgsl uzgbmu
ikl sibgkpg.zullsagvl gkbmuza;gakgbmugXkbmagvl gNvl voa,gvl gvoakgbmu
wukwougqmkglkqgwkaauaagXzuuiu,goupbgbmurzglvbrnugikslbztgbkgxkgaubbou
uoauqmuzu,gqmuzugbmutgfrxmbgmvnugfkzugzkkf;gvl gbmuzugvzugaivziugbqkgkz
bmzuugorbbougikzluzagrlgbmugqkzo gbmvbgmvnuglkbgpuobgbmuguppuibgkpgasim
zufknvoajggBmugZkfvlag.tgbmragfuvlaguzuibu gbmurzgikoklrua;gpkz,
wuziurnrlxgbmurzgirbtgbkgxzkqgrffuvaszv.otgwkwsoksa,gbmutguvau grbgkpgbmu
fkabgslluiuaavztgwukwou,gvl gaulbgbmufgbkgrlmv.rbgvl gisobrnvbugbmugovl a
iklesuzu g.tgbmuf;gakfubrfuagvoakgbmutgwszwkauotgfvrlbvrlu gqvzagqrbm
akfugkpgbmurzgulufrua,glkbgklotgbkgcuuwgbmurzgkqlgfulgrlgvibrkl,gpkzgpuvz
ouabgr ouluaa,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgikzzswbrkl,gamkso g.zrlxgswklgbmufgakfu
qkzaugrliklnulruliu:

gggggggggggggg“Ubgwvbrfszgoklxvugwviragfvov;gavunrkzgvzfra
gggggggggggggggOshszrvgrlisf.rbj”

ggggg[“Vl gqugasppuzgbmugrooagkpgvgoklxgwuviu;goshsztgragfkzugwuzlrirksa
gggggbmvlgqvzj”--Ysnulvo,gnrjg291j]

.sbgvoakgbkgauznugpkzgvg.okk -oubbrlxgbkgbmurzgZuws.ori,gvl gvgorbbougbk
unvwkzvbugbmugbkkgnumufulbgmuvbgkpgbmurzgtksbm,gbkgwzslugvl giouvzgbmu
.zvlimuagpzkfgbmugabkicgbkkgoshszrvlbgrlgqkk ;gvl gbkgbmragul grbgqva
bmvbgbmutgfvrlbvrlu gakgoklxgvgqvzgqrbmgIvzbmvxuj

Rlgbmugbzuvbtgkpg.zubrxlt,gU qvz gRRRj,gcrlxgkpgUlxovl ,gqkso glkb,grl
bmugxuluzvogwuviugmugbmulgfv ugqrbmgkszgcrlx,gikfwzumul gbmugiklbzknuzat
v.ksbgbmug simtgkpg.zrbbvlt,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgmvnugvgwoviugqmuzurlgbk
 raimvzxugmrfauopgkpgmragako ruza,gvl gbmvbgbmugnvabglsf.uzgkpgUlxoramgmu
mv g.zksxmbgknuzgbkgauznugmrfgrlgmraguhwu rbrklgmuzugfrxmbglkbgzubszl
.vicgrlbkgUlxovl jggVl gbmragvoakgqvagklugzuvaklgqmtgkszgCrlxgWmrorw
iklaulbu gbkgaul gmragaklgYkmlgswklgvgpkzurxlguhwu rbrkl,gbmvbgmugfrxmb
bvcugvoklxgqrbmgmrfgvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgmkbgtkslxgfulgqmkgquzugbmulgrlgmra
wvtj

Bmuzu--vzugfvltgrlgkszgbrfuagqmkgbvocgvbgbmragzvbu,gqramrlxgbmvb
bmragmkbgufkbrklgbmvbgraglkqgvfklxabgsagfrxmbg raimvzxugrbauopgrlgakfu
lurxm.kszrlxgqvz,gpkzgpuvzgouabgvoogbmugwuiivlbgmsfkszagbmvbglkqgzurxlgrl
bmragwkorbrig.k tgkpgkszagfvtg rppsaugbmufauonuagpvzbmuz,gcuuwgbmugpunuz
abroogrlgbmugmurxmb,gvl gvbgovabgivsaugkszgbkbvogzsrl;gvl ,grlgbzsbm,gv
pkzurxlgragfsimgfkzugaswwkzbv.ougbmvlgvgirnrogqvz,g.sbgRg kglkbg.uorunu
bmvbgXk gqroogpvnkszgakgslysabgvg uarxlgvagbkgkppul gvl gesvzzuogqrbm
kbmuzagpkzgkszgkqlgv nvlbvxu:

gggggggggggggg“Lrogfrmrgbvfgnvo ugwoviuvb,gZmvflsarvgnrzxk,
gggggggggggggggEsk gbufuzugrlnrbragasairwrvbszgmuzraj”

ggggg[“Zmvflsarvlgnrzxrl,goubglkbmrlxgunuzgakgxzuvbotgwouvaugfugqmrimgra
gggggbvculgqrbmksbgysabriugpzkfgbmugslqroorlxgkqluza”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjg77j]

Vl gtubgbmugquvcluaagkpgkszgikl rbrklgkpbulgwsamuagsagswklgbmugluiuaarbt
kpgfvcrlxgsaugkpgroogfuvlagbkgvgxkk gul jggOtiszxsa,gbmugfkabgwuzpuib
ouxraovbkzgbmvbgunuzgqva,gnrzbsksagvl grlnulbu gbmragnuztgslysabgwzvibriu
kpgfvcrlxgbmugmuokba,gqmkgquzugbmurzgaovnua,g zslcg.tgpkziu,gbkgbmugul 
bmvbgbmugAwvzbvla,gauurlxgbmufgakgokabgvl g.szru grlgqrlu,gfrxmbgv.mkz
bmuguhiuaagkpgbmragnriujggVl gtubgbmkaugquzugabroogfkzugbkg.ovfugqmkgkp
ko gxvnugouvnugbmvbgizrfrlvoa,gbkgqmvbgakzbgkpg uvbmgakunuzgikl uflu ,
amkso g.ugisbgswgvornug.tgbmugwmtarirvla,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgfvcugvgbzsu
 raiknuztgkpgkszgrlqvz gwvzba,gvl g.sro gbmurzgvzbgswklgxzuvbuz
iuzbvrlbt;gpkz,grpgqugfsabgzslgrlbkguhiuaaua,grbgragfkzuguhisav.ougbkg k
rbgpkzgbmugmuvobmgkpgbmugaksogbmvlgbmvbgkpgbmug.k t;gvagbmugZkfvla
bzvrlu gswgbmugwukwougbkgnvokszgvl gbmugiklbufwbgkpg vlxuzagvl g uvbmg.t
bmkaugpszrksagawuibviouagkpgxov rvbkzagvl gpuliuza,gqmk,gmvnrlxgbkgprxmb
rbgksbgbkgbmugovab,gisb,gfvlxou ,gvl gcroou gklugvlkbmuzgrlgbmurz
wzuauliu:

ggggggggg“Esr gnuavlrgvors gar.rgnsobgvzagrfwrvgos r,
ggggggggggEsr gfkzbuagysnulsf,gesr gavlxsrlugwvabvgnkoswbva?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgkbmuzgul g kuagbmugrfwrksagvzbgkpgbmugxov rvbkzagwzkwkaugbk
gggggrbauop,gqmvbgbmugaovsxmbuzgkpgtkslxgful,gqmvbgwouvaszugpu gqrbm
ggggg.okk j”--Wzs ulbrsa,gIklbzvgAtffvimsf,grrjg643j]

vl gbmragisabkfgiklbrlsu gbroogbmugUfwuzkzgBmuk karsa’gbrfu:

ggggggggg“Vzzrwug rovbvfgbsv,g sh,grlgbufwkzvgpvfvf,
ggggggggggEsk esugwvbzragaswuzuab,gasiiuaakzgovs ragmv.ubk
ggggggggggLsoosagrlgsz.ugiv vb,gisysagarbgwkulvgnkoswbvajjjj
ggggggggggYvfgakoragiklbulbvgpuzra,grlpvfragvzulv
ggggggggggLsoovgizsulbvbragmkfrir rvgos vbgrlgvzfraj”

ggggg[“Wzrliu,gbvcugbmugmklkszag uovtu gpkzgbmtgzurxl,gvl g.ugasiiuaakz
gggggbkgbmtgpvbmuza;gmuliupkzbmgoubglklugvbgZkfug.ugaovrlgpkzgawkzbjggOub
ggggg.uvaba’g.okk gabvrlgbmugrlpvfksagvzulv,gvl glkgfkzugmkfrir uag.u
gggggbmuzugvibu j”--Wzs ulbrsa,gIklbzvgAtffvimsf,grrjg643j]

Rbgqva,grlgbzsbm,gvgqkl uzpsoguhvfwou,gvl gkpgxzuvbgv nvlbvxugpkzgbmu
bzvrlrlxgswgbmugwukwou,gbkgauugunuztg vtg.upkzugbmurzgutuagvgmsl zu ;gbqk
msl zu ,glvt,gvgbmksavl gikswouagkpgfulgvzfu gvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuz,gisb
klugvlkbmuzgbkgwruiuagqrbmgakgxzuvbgvgiklabvlitgkpgikszvxu,gbmvbgbmut
quzuglunuzgmuvz gbkgsbbuzgakgfsimgvagklugatoov.ougkpgquvcluaagkz
ikffrauzvbrkl;glunuzgauulgbkgbszlgbmurzg.vica,glkzgakgfsimgvagbkgfvcugklu
ikqvz otgabuwgbkgunv ugvg.okq,g.sbgzvbmuzguhwkau gbmurzgluicagbkgbmu
v nuzavzt’agaqkz gvl gwzuaulbu gbmufauonuagbkgzuiurnugbmugabzkcu;gvl 
fvltgkpgbmuf,gqmulgqksl u gbkg uvbm,gmvnugaulbgbkgvacgbmugawuibvbkzagrp
bmutgquzugavbrapru gqrbmgbmurzg.umvnrksz,g.upkzugbmutgovtg kqlgbkg ru
swklgbmugwoviujggRbgqvaglkbgulksxmgpkzgbmufgbkgprxmbgvl gbkg rug.zvnuot,
.sbgimuuzpsootgbkk;grlakfsimgbmvbgbmutgquzugmraau gvl giszau grpgbmut
fv ugvltgmuarbvbrklgv.ksbgzuiurnrlxgbmurzg uvbmjggBmugnuztgxrzoa
bmufauonuagaubgbmufgkl:

gggggggggggggg“Iklaszxrbgv gribsa,
gggggggggggggggUb,geskbruagnribkzgpuzzsfgysxsokgrlauzrb,groov
ggggggggggggggg uorirvagvrbguaaugasva,gwuibsaesugyviulbra
gggggggggggggggNrzxkgfk uabvgys.ubgiklnuzakgwkooriugzsfwrj”

ggggg[“Bmugfk uabgnrzxrlgragakg uorxmbu gqrbmgbmugawkzb,gbmvbgamu
gggggvwwovs agbmug.okq,gvl gqmulgbmugnribkzg.vbmuagmragaqkz grlgmra
gggggpuookq’agbmzkvb,gamugavtagrbgragmuzgwouvaszu,gvl gqrbmgbszlu gbmsf.
gggggkz uzagmrfgbkgzrwgswgbmug.kakfgkpgbmugwzkabzvbugnribrfj”
gggggg--Wzs ulbrsa,gIklbzvgAtffvimsf,grrjg617j]

BmugprzabgZkfvlagklotgikl uflu gizrfrlvoagbkgbmraguhvfwou:g.sbgbmut
vpbuzqvz agufwoktu grllkiulbgaovnuagrlgbmugqkzc,gvl gunulgpzuufulgbkk,
qmkgako gbmufauonuagbkgbmragwszwkau,glvt,gfkzuknuz,gaulvbkzagvl gclrxmba
kpgZkfu,gvl gvoakgqkful:

ggggggggg“Lsligivwsbgrlgfkzbufgnul slb,gubgpslsagvzulv,
ggggggggggVbesugmkabufgar.rgesraesugwvzvb,gisfg.uoovgesruaislbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgauoogbmufauonuagbkg uvbmgvl gbmugirzisa,gvl ,garliugbmugqvza
gggggvzugiuvau ,guvimgpkzgmrfauopgvgpkugwzuwvzuaj”
gggggg--Fvlrorsa,gVabzklj,grnjg225j]

gggggggggggggg“Mkagrlbuzgpzufrbsaglknkaesugosasajjjj
gggggggggggggggAbvbgauhsagzs ragrlairsaesugpuzzr,
gggggggggggggggUbgwsxlvagivwrbgrfwzk.sagnrzroua;”


ggggg[“Vfr abgbmuaugbsfsobagvl gluqgawkzba,gbmugbul uzgauh,gslacroou grl
gggggvzfa,grffk uabotgulxvxu grlgfvlotgprxmbaj”
gggggg--Abvbrsa,gAtonj,grjg6,g51j]

qmrimgRgamkso gbmrlcgabzvlxugvl grlizu r.ou,grpgqugquzuglkbgviisabkfu 
unuztg vtgbkgauugrlgkszgkqlgqvzagfvltgbmksavl agkpgfulgkpgkbmuzglvbrkla,
pkzgfklutgbkgabvcugbmurzg.okk gvl gbmurzgornuagrlgesvzzuoagqmuzurlgbmut
mvnuglkgfvlluzgkpgikliuzlj




IMVWBUZgHHRN

KPgBMUgZKFVLgXZVL USZ

Rgqroogklotgavtgvgqkz gkzgbqkgkpgbmragrlprlrbugvzxsfulb,gbkgamkqgbmu
arfworirbtgkpgbmkaugqmkgikfwvzugbmugwrbrpsogxzuvbluaagkpgbmuaugbrfuagqrbm
bmvbgkpgZkfujggRlgbmugaunulbmg.kkcgkpgIriuzk’agPvfrorvzgUwrabouag(vl goub
bmugxzvffvzrvlagwsbgksbgbmvbgaszlvfugkpgpvfrorvzgrpgbmutgwouvau,gpkzgrl
bzsbmgrbgraglkbgnuztgasrbv.ou;gvl gbmutgqmk,grlabuv gkpgpvfrorvz,gmvnu
as.abrbsbu g“v gPvfrorvzua,”gfvtgxvbmuzgakfubmrlxgbkgysabrptgbmufgpkzgak
 krlxgksbgkpgqmvbgAsubklrsagavtagrlgbmugOrpugkpgIvuavz,gbmvbgbmuzugqvagv
nkosfugkpgoubbuzagkpgmrag“v gPvfrorvzuag“)gbmuzugragklug rzuibu gbk
Ivuavz,gbmulgrlgXvso,gqmuzurlgIriuzkgzuwuvbagbmuaugqkz a,gqmrimgquzugrl
bmugul gkpgvlkbmuzgoubbuzgbmvbgIvuavzgmv gqzrbbulgbkgmrf:g“Vagbkgqmvb
ikliuzlagFvzisagPszrsa,gqmkfgtksgmvnugzuikfful u gbkgfu,gRgqroogfvcugmrf
crlxgkpgXvso,gvl grpgtksgqkso gmvnugfugv nvliugvltgkbmuzgpzrul gkpgtksza
aul gmrfgbkgfuj”ggRbgqvaglkgluqgbmrlxgpkzgvgarfwougirbrdulgkpgZkfu,gva
Ivuavzgbmulgqva,gbkg rawkaugkpgcrlx kfa,gpkzgmugbkkcgvqvtgbmvbgkpgCrlx
 urkbvzsagpzkfgmrfgbkgxrnugrbgbkgvgxulboufvlgkpgbmugirbtgkpgWuzxvfsa,
ivoou gFrbmzr vbua;gvl gbmutgqmkgqzkbugmragOrpugzuikz gaunuzvogirbrua
ako g.tgmrf;gvl gAsubklrsagavta,gbmvbgmugmv gkliugpzkfgCrlxgWbkouftgbmzuu
froorklagvl garhgmsl zu gbmksavl gizkqla,gqmrimgqvagnuztgorcugauoorlxgmrf
mragkqlgcrlx kf:

gggggggggg“BkbgXvovbvu,gbkbgWklbsa,gbkbgOt rv,glsffraj”

gggggggggg[“AkgfsimgpkzgXvovbrv,gakgfsimgpkzgWklbsa,
ggggggggggakgfsimgpkzgOt rvj”--Iovs rsagrlgUsbzkwj,grjg203j]

FvzisagVlbklrsagavr ,gbmvbgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgbmugwukwougkpgZkfugqvaglkb
akgfsimgauulgrlgqmvbgbmutgbkkc,gvagrlgqmvbgbmutgxvnu;gvl ,grl uu ,gakfu
vxuag.upkzugVlbklrsa,gbmutgmv g ubmzklu gklugvfklxabgbmugzuabgqrbmgak
qkl uzpsogvsbmkzrbt,gbmvbgrlgvoogbmugZkfvlgmrabkztgRgmvnuglkbgk.auznu 
vltbmrlxgbmvbgfkzug ulkbuagbmugmurxmbgkpgbmurzgwkquzjggVlbrkimsa
wkaauaau gvoogUxtwb,gvl gqva,gfkzuknuz,gzuv tgbkgiklesuzgItwzsagvl gkbmuz
vwwul vxuagkpgbmvbgufwrzu:gqmulg.urlxgswklgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmragnribkzrua,
IjgWkwrorsagivfugbkgmrfgpzkfgbmugAulvbu,gvl gvbgbmurzgprzabgfuubrlx
zupsau gbkgbvcugmrfg.tgbmugmvl ,gbroogmugmv gprzabgzuv gmragoubbuza,
qmrimgvpbuzgbmugcrlxgmv gzuv ,gvl gbko gmrfgmugqkso giklar uzgkpgbmuf,
Wkwrorsagfv ugvgirziougv.ksbgmrfgqrbmgmragivlu,gavtrlx:--“Zubszlgfugvl
vlaquz,gbmvbgRgfvtgivzztgrbg.vicgbkgbmugAulvbu,g.upkzugbmksgabrzzuabgksb
kpgbmragirziouj”gggVlbrkimsa,gvabklramu gvbgbmugzksxmluaagkpgakgwkarbrnu
vgikffvl ,gvpbuzgvgorbbougwvsau,gzuworu ,g“Rgqroogk.utgbmugAulvbu’a
ikffvl j”ggBmulgWkwrorsagavosbu gmrfgvagpzrul gkpgbmugZkfvlgwukwouj
Bkgmvnugzulksliu giovrfgbkgakgxzuvbgvgfklvzimt,gvl gvgikszaugkpgasim
asiiuaapsogpkzbslu,gpzkfgbmuguppuibagkpgbmzuugorluagrlgqzrbrlx!ggBzsot
mugmv gzuvakl,gvagmugvpbuzqvz ag r ,gbkgaul gbmugAulvbugqkz g.tgmra
vf.vaav kza,gbmvbgmugmv gzuiurnu gbmurzgkz uzgqrbmgbmugavfugzuawuibgvagrp
rbgmv gikfugpzkfgbmugrffkzbvogxk aj

Voogbmugcrlx kfagbmvbgVsxsabsagxvrlu g.tgbmugzrxmbgkpgqvz,gmugurbmuz
zuabkzu gbkgbmkaugqmkgmv gokabgbmufgkzgwzuaulbu gbmufgbkgabzvlxuzajggVl 
Bvirbsa,grlgzupuzuliugbkgbmra,gawuvcrlxgkpgIkxr slsa,gcrlxgkpgUlxovl ,
xrnuagsa,g.tgvgfvznuooksagbksim,gvlgrlabvliugkpgbmvbgrlprlrbugwkquz:gbmu
Zkfvla,gavtagmu,gquzugpzkfgvoogvlbresrbtgviisabkfu gbkgouvnugbmugcrlxa
bmutgmv gas. su grlgwkaauaarklgkpgbmurzgcrlx kfagsl uzgbmurzgvsbmkzrbtj

gggggggggg“Sbgmv.uzulbgrlabzsfulbagauznrbsbragubgzuxuaj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgbmutgfrxmbgmvnugunulgcrlxagbkg.ugbmurzgaovnuaj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghonjg13j]

‘Bragwzk.v.ougbmvbgAkotfvl,gqmkfgqugmvnugauulgfvcugvgxrpbgkpgMslxvztgvl 
kbmuzgwzrlirwvorbrua,gmv gbmuzurlgfkzugzuawuibgbkgbmragiklar uzvbrklgbmvl
bkgbmvbgmugqvagqklbgbkgvoouxu,gnrdj,gbmvbgmugqvagxosbbu gvl gknuzimvzxu 
qrbmgakgfvltgfklvzimruagvl gakgfsimg kfrlrkl,gvagmragkqlgnvokszgvl gbmvb
kpgmragvliuabkzagmv gviesrzu j




IMVWBUZgHHN

LKBgBKgIKSLBUZPURBg.URLXgARIC

BmuzugragvlguwrxzvfgrlgFvzbrvo,gvl gklugkpgbmugnuztgxkk gklua--pkzgmugmva
kpgvoogakzba--qmuzugmugwouvavlbotgbuooagbmugabkztgkpgIvuorsa,gqmk,gbk
vnkr gfvcrlxgmragikszbgbkgakfugxzuvbgfulgkpgZkfu,gbkgqvrbgbmurzgzrarlx,
vl gbkgvbbul gbmufgv.zkv ,gwzubul u gbkgmvnugbmugxksb;gvl gbmug.ubbuzgbk
ikokszgbmragvlkrlbu gmragouxa,gvl gmv gbmufgovwwu gswgrlgvgxzuvbgfvlt
aqvbmrlxa,gvl gwuzpuibotgikslbuzpurbu g.kbmgbmugxuabszugvl gikslbulvliu
kpgvgxksbtgwuzakl;gbroogrlgbmugul ,gPkzbslug r gmrfgbmugcrl luaagbkgfvcu
mrfgklugrl uu :

gggggggggggggg“Esvlbsfgiszagwkbuabgubgvzag kokzra
ggggggggggggggg uarrbgprlxuzugIvuorsagwk vxzvfj”

ggggg[“Mkqgxzuvbgragbmugwkquzgkpgikslbuzpurbrlxgwvrl:gIvuorsagmvagiuvau 
gggggbkgpurxlgbmugxksb;gmugmvagxkbgrbj”--Fvzbrvo,gUwj,gnrrjg39,g8j]

RgbmrlcgRgmvnugzuv gakfuqmuzugrlgVwwrvlgvgabkztgorcugbmra,gkpgklugqmkgbk
uaivwugbmugwzkaizrwbrklagkpgbmugbzrsfnrzagkpgZkfu,gvl gbmug.ubbuzgbkg.u
ikliuvou gpzkfgbmug raiknuztgkpgbmkaugqmkgwszasu gmrf,gmvnrlxgmr  ul
mrfauopgrlgvg raxsrau,gqkso gtubgv  gbmragrlnulbrkl,gbkgikslbuzpurb
mvnrlxg.sbgklugutu;g.sbgqmulgmugivfugbkgmvnugvgorbbougfkzugor.uzbt,gvl 
qulbgbkgbvcugkppgbmugwovabuzgmugmv gvgxzuvbgqmrougqkzlgknuzgmragutu,gmu
pksl gmugmv gbkbvootgokabgbmugarxmbgkpgrbgrl uu ,gvl gbmvbgrbgqva
v.akosbuotgxklujgg‘Bragwkaar.ougbmvbgbmugvibrklgkpgarxmbgqvag soou gpzkf
mvnrlxg.uulgakgoklxgqrbmksbguhuzirau,gvl gbmvbgbmugkwbrigwkquzgqvagqmkoot
zubrzu grlbkgbmugkbmuzgutu:gpkzgqugunr ulbotgwuziurnugbmvbgbmugutugqu
cuuwgamsbgaul agakfugwvzbgkpgrbagnrzbsugbkgrbagpuookq,gakgbmvbgrbgqroo
aquoogvl gxzkqg.rxxuz;gvl gakgrlvibrkl,gqrbmgbmugmuvbgkpgorxvbszuagvl ,
wovabuza,gfrxmbgnuztgquoogmvnug.zksxmbgakfugxksbtgmsfkszgswklgbmu
ikslbuzpurbuzgrlgFvzbrvoj

Zuv rlxgrlgPzkraavzbgbmugnkqgkpgvgbzkkwgkpgtkslxgUlxoramgxulbouful,gbk
cuuwgbmurzgoupbgutuag.ksl gswgbroogbmutgmv gvzzrnu grlgPzvliugvl 
wuzpkzfu gakfuglkbv.ouguhwokrbgswklgsa,gRgmvnugkpbulg.uulgbricou gqrbm
bmragbmksxmb,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbgmvnug.upvooulgbmufgvagrbg r gbmkaugkbmuza,
vl gbmutgfrxmbgmvnugzubszlu gqrbmg.sbgvlgutugv-wruiugbkgbmurzgfrabzuaaua,
pkzgqmkaugavcuagbmutgmv gfv ugbmragzr risoksagnkqj

Fkbmuzagmvnugzuvaklgbkgzu.scugbmurzgimro zulgqmulgbmutgikslbuzpurbgmvnrlx
.sbgklugutu,gaesrlbrlx,govfuluaa,gkzgvltgkbmuzgwuzaklvog upuib;gpkz,
.uar uagbmvbgbmurzg.k ruag.urlxgbmulgakgbul uz,gfvtg.ugas.yuibgbkgbvcugvl
roog.ulb,gpkzbslu,gRgclkqglkbgmkq,gakfubrfuagauufagbkg uorxmbgrlgbvcrlx
sagvbgkszgqkz ;gvl gRgmvnugmuvz gaunuzvoguhvfwouagzuovbu gkpgwukwougqmk
mvnug.uikfugzuvootgaric,g.tgklotgpurxlrlxgbkg.ugakjggRgmvnugvoqvtagsau ,
qmubmuzgklgmkzau.vicgkzgklgpkkb,gbkgivzztgvgabricgrlgftgmvl ,gvl gunulgbk
vppuibg krlxgrbgqrbmgvlguouxvlbgvrz;gfvltgmvnugbmzuvbulu gbmvbgbmragpvlit
qkso gklug vtg.ugbszlu grlbkgluiuaarbt:grpgak,gRgamkso g.ugbmugprzabgkp
ftgpvfrotgbkgmvnugbmugxksbj

.sbgoubgsagvgorbbougoulxbmulgbmragimvwbuz,gvl gv  gvlkbmuzgvlui kbu
ikliuzlrlxg.orl luaajggWorltgzuwkzbagkpgklugqmk,g zuvfrlxgmugqvag.orl ,
pksl gmrfauopgakgrl uu grlgbmugfkzlrlxgqrbmksbgvltgwzuiu rlxgrlprzfrbtgrl
mragutuajggBmugpkziugkpgrfvxrlvbrklgfrxmbgvaarabgrlgbmragivau,gvagRgmvnu
avr guoauqmuzu,gvl gWorltgauufagbkg.ugkpgbmugavfugkwrlrkl;g.sbgrbgragfkzu
orcuotgbmvbgbmugfkbrklagqmrimgbmug.k tgpuobgqrbmrl,gkpgqmrimgwmtarirvla,
rpgbmutgwouvau,gfvtgprl gksbgbmugivsau,gbvcrlxgvqvtgmragarxmb,gquzugbmu
kiivarklgkpgmrag zuvfj

Oubgsagv  gvlkbmuzgabkzt,glkbgnuztgrfwzkwuzgpkzgbmragas.yuib,gqmrim
Auluivgzuovbuagrlgklugkpgmraguwraboua:g“Tksgclkq,”gavtagmu,gqzrbrlxgbk
Osirorsa,g“bmvbgMvzwvabu,gftgqrpu’agpkko,gragbmzkqlgswklgfugvagvl
muzu rbvztgimvzxu,gpkzgRgmvnuglvbszvootgvlgvnuzarklgbkgbmkaugfklabuza;
vl grpgRgmvnugvgfrl gbkgovsxmgvbgvgpkko,gRgluu glkbgauucgmrfgpvz;gRgivl
ovsxmgvbgftauopjggBmragpkkogmvagas  ulotgokabgmuzgarxmb:gRgbuoogtksgv
abzvlxu,g.sbgvgnuztgbzsugbmrlxgamugraglkbgaular.ougbmvbgamugrag.orl ,g.sb
ubuzlvootgrfwkzbsluagmuzgcuuwuzgbkgbvcugmuzgv.zkv ,g.uivsaugamugavtagbmu
mksaugrag vzcjggBmvbgqmvbgqugovsxmgvbgrlgmuz,gRgwzvtgtksgbkg.uorunu,
mvwwulagbkgunuztgklugkpgsa:glkgklugclkqagmrfauopgbkg.ugvnvzrirksagkz
xzvawrlx;gvl ,gvxvrl,gbmug.orl givoogpkzgvgxsr u,gqmrougqugabzvtgkpgksz
kqlgviikz jggRgvfglkbgvf.rbrksa,gqugavt;g.sbgvgfvlgivllkbgornugkbmuzqrau
vbgZkfu;gRgvfglkbgqvabupso,g.sbgbmugirbtgzuesrzuagvgxzuvbgksbovt;g‘bra
lkbgftgpvsobgrpgRgvfgimkouzri--rpgRgmvnuglkbgtubguabv.oramu gvltgiuzbvrl
ikszaugkpgorpu:g‘bragbmugpvsobgkpgtksbmjggOubgsaglkbgauucgkszg rauvaugksb
kpgkszauonua;g‘bragrlgsa,gvl gwovlbu grlgkszg.kquoa;gvl gbmugfuzugpvib
bmvbgqug kglkbgwuziurnugkszauonuagbkg.ugaric,gzul uzagsagfkzugmvz gbkg.u
iszu jggRpgqug kglkbg.ubrfuag.uxrlgbkgauugbkgkszauonua,gqmulgamvoogqu
mvnugwzknr u gpkzgakgfvltgqksl agvl gunroagqmuzuqrbmgqugv.ksl ?ggVl gtub
qugmvnugvgfkabgaquubgvl gimvzfrlxgfu rirlugrlgwmrokakwmt;gpkzgkpgvoogbmu
zuabgqugvzugaular.ougkpglkgwouvaszugbroogvpbuzgbmugiszu:gbmragwouvauagvl 
muvoagvbgkliuj”ggBmragragqmvbgAuluivgavta,gbmvbgmvagivzzru gfugpzkfgft
as.yuib,g.sbgbmuzugragv nvlbvxugrlgbmugimvlxuj




IMVWBUZgHHNR

KPgBMSF.A

Bvirbsagzuwkzba,gbmvbgvfklxabgiuzbvrlg.vz.vzrvlgcrlxagbmurzgfvlluzgqva,
qmulgbmutgqkso gfvcugvgprzfgk.orxvbrkl,gbkgykrlgbmurzgzrxmbgmvl agiokau
bkgklugvlkbmuz,gvl grlbuzbqrabgbmurzgbmsf.a;gvl gqmul,g.tgpkziugkp
abzvrlrlxgbmug.okk ,grbgvwwuvzu grlgbmugul a,gbmutgorxmbotgwzricu gbmuf
qrbmgakfugamvzwgrlabzsfulb,gvl gfsbsvootgasicu gbmufj

Wmtarirvlagavtgbmvbgbmugbmsf.agvzugbmugfvabuzgprlxuzagkpgbmugmvl ,gvl 
bmvbgbmurzgOvbrlgubtfkokxtgrag uzrnu gpzkfg“wkoouzuj”gBmugXzuucagivoou 
bmufg‘Vnbrhurw’,gvagqmkgamkso gavt,gvlkbmuzgmvl jggVl grbgauufagbmvbgbmu
Ovbrlagvoakgakfubrfuagbvcugrbgrlgbmragaulaugpkzgbmugqmkougmvl :

gggggggggggggg“Au gluignkir.saguhirbvbvg.ovl ra,
gggggggggggggggFkoorgwkoorirgluigzkxvbv,gaszxrbj”

gggggggggg[“Lurbmuzgbkg.uguhirbu g.tgakpbgqkz agkzg.tgbmugbmsf.j”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbj,ghrrjg98,g8j]

RbgqvagvbgZkfugvgarxlrprivbrklgkpgpvnkszgbkg uwzuaagvl gbszlgrlgbmu
bmsf.a:

gggggggggg“Pvsbkzgsbzkesugbssfgovs v.rbgwkooriugos sf:”

gggggggggg[“Bmtgwvbzklgqroogvwwovs gbmtgawkzbgqrbmg.kbmgbmsf.a”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviuj]

vl gkpg rapvnkszgbkguounvbugvl gbmzsabgbmufgksbqvz :

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Iklnuzakgwkooriugnsoxr,
ggggggggggggggggggggEsufor.ubgkiir slbgwkwsovzrbuzj”

gggggggggg[“Bmugwkwsoviu,gqrbmgrlnuzbu gbmsf.a,gcroogvoogbmvb
ggggggggggikfug.upkzugbmufj”--Ysnulvo,grrrjg36]

BmugZkfvlaguhufwbu gpzkfgqvzgvoogasimgvagquzugfvrfu grlgbmugbmsf.a,gva
mvnrlxglkgfkzugaspprirulbgabzulxbmgbkgmko gbmurzgquvwklajggVsxsabsa
iklpraivbu gbmuguabvbugkpgvgZkfvlgclrxmbgqmkgmv gfvorirksaotgisbgkppgbmu
bmsf.agkpgbqkgtkslxgimro zulgmugmv ,gbkguhisaugbmufgpzkfgxkrlxgrlbkgbmu
vzfrua;gvl ,g.upkzugmrf,gbmugAulvbu,grlgbmugbrfugkpgbmugRbvorigqvz,gmv 
ikl uflu gIvrsagNvbrulsagbkgwuzwubsvogrfwzraklfulb,gvl giklpraivbu gvoo
mragxkk a,gpkzgmvnrlxgwszwkauotgisbgkppgbmugbmsf.gkpgmragoupbgmvl ,gbk
uhufwbgmrfauopgpzkfgbmvbguhwu rbrkljggAkfugklu,gRgmvnugpkzxkbbulgqmk,
mvnrlxgqklgvglvnvog.vbbou,gisbgkppgbmugbmsf.agkpgvoogmragnvlesramu 
ulufrua,gbkgzul uzgbmufgrlivwv.ougkpgprxmbrlxgvl gkpgmvl orlxgbmugkvzj
BmugVbmulrvlagvoakgivsau gbmugbmsf.agkpgbmugVUxrlvbvlagbkg.ugisbgkpp,
bkg uwzrnugbmufgkpgbmugaswuzrkzrbtgrlgbmugvzbgkpglvnrxvbrklj

RlgOviu vufkl,gwu vxkxsuagimvabrau gbmurzgaimkovzag.tg.rbrlxgbmurz
bmsf.aj




IMVWBUZgHHNRR

IKQVZ RIUgBMUgFKBMUZgKPgIZSUOBT

Rgmvnugkpbulgmuvz grbgavr gbmvbgikqvz riugragbmugfkbmuzgkpgizsuobt;gvl gR
mvnugpksl g.tguhwuzruliugbmvbgfvorirksagvl grlmsfvlgvlrfkarbtgvl 
pruziuluaagvzugsasvootgviikfwvlru gqrbmgpufrlrlugquvcluaajggRgmvnugauul
bmugfkabgizsuogwukwou,gvl gswklgpzrnkoksagkiivarkla,gvwbgbkgiztj
Vouhvl uz,gbmugbtzvlbgkpgWmuzua,g szabglkbg.ugvgawuibvbkzgkpgbzvxu ruagrl
bmugbmuvbzu,gpkzgpuvzgouabgmragirbrdulagamkso gauugmrfgquuwgvbgbmu
frapkzbsluagkpgMuis.vgvl gVl zkfvimu,gqmkgmrfauopgqrbmksbgwrbtgivsau gak
fvltgwukwougunuztg vtgbkg.ugfsz uzu jggRagrbglkbgfuvlluaagkpgawrzrbgbmvb
zul uzagbmufgakgworv.ougbkgvooguhbzufrbrua?ggNvoksz,gqmkauguppuibgragklot
bkg.uguhuzirau gvxvrlabgzuarabvliu--

gggggggggg“Luiglrarg.uoovlbragxvs ubgiuznriugysnulir”--

gggggggggg[“Lkzg uorxmbagrlgcroorlxgvg.soogslouaagmugzuarabaj”
ggggggggggg--Iovs rsa,gUwjgv gMv zrvlsf,gnjg39j]

abkwagqmulgrbgauuagbmuguluftgvbgrbagfuzit;g.sbgwsaroovlrfrbt,gbkgavtgbmvb
rbgqvagvoakgrlgbmugxvfu,glkbgmvnrlxg vzu gbkgfu  ougrlgbmugprzabgvibgkp
 vlxuz,gbvcuagvagrbagwvzbgbmugauikl ,gkpg.okk gvl gfvaavizujggBmugfsz uza
rlgnribkzruagvzugikffklotgwuzpkzfu g.tgbmugzvaivorbtgvl gmvlxuza-klgkpgvl
vzft,gvl gbmvbgqmrimgivsauagakgfvltgslmuvz gkpgizsuobruagrlg kfuabrigqvza
ra,gbmvbgbmragivlvroougfvcuagqvzgrlgrf.zsrlxgrbauopgswgbkgbmuguo.kqagrl
.okk ,gvl gzrwwrlxgswgvg.k tgbmvbgoruagwzkabzvbugvbgrbagpuub,gmvnrlxglk
aulaugkpgvltgkbmuzgnvoksz:

ggggggggg“Ubgoswsa,gubgbszwuagrlabvlbgfkzrulbr.sagszar,
ggggggggggUbgesvuislesugfrlkzglk.rorbvbugpuzvguab:”

ggggg[“Qkonuagvl gbmugprobmtg.uvza,gvl gvoogbmug.vauzg.uvaba,
gggggpvoogswklgbmug trlxj”--Knr ,gBzrabj,grrrjg5,g35j]

orcugikqvz otg kxa,gbmvbgrlgbmugmksaugqkzztgvl gbuvzgbmugacrlagkpgqro 
.uvaba,gbmutg szabglkbgikfugluvzgrlgbmugpruo jggQmvbgragrbgrlgbmuaugbrfua
kpgkszagbmvbgfvcuagkszgesvzzuoagfkzbvo;gvl gbmvb,gqmuzuvagkszgpvbmuzagmv 
akfug uxzuuagkpgzunulxu,gquglkqg.uxrlgqrbmgbmugovabgrlgksza,gvl gvbgbmu
przabgfuubrlxglkbmrlxgragbkg.ugavr g.sb,gcroo?ggQmvbgragbmrag.sb
ikqvz riu?

Unuztgklugragaular.ougbmvbgbmuzugragfkzug.zvnuztgvl g ra vrlgrlgas. srlx
vlguluft,gbmvlgrlgisbbrlx,gmragbmzkvb;gvl grlgfvcrlxgmrfgtruo ,gbmvlgrl
wsbbrlxgmrfgbkgbmugaqkz :g.uar uagbmvbgbmugvwwubrbugkpgzunulxugrag.ubbuz
avbrapru gvl gwouvau g.uivsaugrbagklotgvrfgragbkgfvcugrbauopgpuob:gVl 
bmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgqug kglkbgpvoogswklgvg.uvabgkzgvgabklugqmulgbmut
mszbgsa,g.uivsaugbmutgvzuglkbgivwv.ougkpg.urlxgaular.ougkpgkszgzunulxu;
vl gbkgcroogvgfvlgragbkgavnugmrfgpzkfgbmugrlysztgvl gkppuliugqugrlbul 
mrfjggVl gvag.rvagizru gksbgbkgvgqricu gpuookq,g“Rgclkqgbmvbgakkluzgkz
ovbuzgbmksgqrobgmvnugbmtgzuqvz ,g.sbgRgvfgvpzvr gRgamvooglkbgauugrb”;
--[Wosbvzim,gklgbmug uovtgrlg rnrlugYsabriu,gijg2j]--vl gwrbru gbmu
KzimkfulrvlagbmvbgbmugwulrbuliugkpgOtiraisagpkzgbmugbzuvaklgikffrbbu 
vxvrlabgbmuf,givfugvbgvgauvaklgqmulgbmuzugqvaglkgklugzufvrlrlxgvornugkp
bmkaugqmkgmv g.uulgrlbuzuabu grlgbmugkppuliu,gvl gqmkfgbmugwouvaszugkp
bmragwulrbuliugamkso gvppuib:gakgzunulxugragbkg.ugwrbru ,gqmulgbmugwuzakl
klgqmkfgrbgraguhuisbu grag uwzrnu gkpgfuvlagkpgasppuzrlxgsl uzgrb:gpkzgva
bmugvnulxuzgqroogokkcgklgbkgulyktgbmugwouvaszugkpgmragzunulxu,gakgbmu
wuzaklgklgqmkfgmugbvcuagzunulxugamkso g.ugvgawuibvbkzgbkk,gbkg.u
vpporibu gvl gbkgzuwulbjgg“Mugqroogzuwulbgrb,”gqugavt,gvl g.uivsaugqu
mvnugxrnulgmrfgvgwrabko-amkbgbmzksxmgbmugmuv ,g kgqugrfvxrlugmugqroo
zuwulb?ggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,grpgqug.sbgk.auznu,gqugamvoogprl ,gbmvbgmugfvcua
fksbmagvbgsagrlgpvoorlx,gvl gragakgpvzgpzkfgwulrbulit,gbmvbgmug kuaglkb
akgfsimgvagzuwrlugvbgsa;gvl gqug kgmrfgbmugcrl uabgkppriugkpgorpu,gqmrim
ragbkgfvcugmrfg rugrlaular.ot,gvl gakkl:gqugvzugvpbuzqvz agbkgmr u
kszauonua,gvl gbkgamrpbgvl gpotgpzkfgbmugkppriuzagkpgysabriu,gqmkgwszasu
sa,gqmroabgmugragvbgzuabjggCroorlxgragxkk gbkgpzsabzvbugvlgkppuliugbk
ikfu,glkbgbkgzunulxugklugbmvbgragvozuv tgwvab;gvl gfkzugvlgvibgkpgpuvz
bmvlgkpg.zvnuzt;gkpgwzuivsbrklgbmvlgkpgikszvxu;gkpg upuliugbmvlgkp
ulbuzwzraujggRbgragfvlrpuabgbmvbg.tgrbgqugokaug.kbmgbmugbzsugul gkp
zunulxugvl gbmugivzugkpgkszgzuwsbvbrkl;gqugvzugvpzvr ,grpgmugornuagmu
qroog kgsagvlkbmuzgrlysztgvagxzuvbgvagbmugprzab;g‘braglkbgksbgkp
vlrfkarbtgbkgmrf,g.sbgivzugkpgbmtauop,gbmvbgbmksgxubbuabgzr gkpgmrfj

Rlgbmugcrlx kfgkpgLvzarlxvmgbmraguhwu rulbgqkso g.ugsauouaagbkgsa,gqmuzu
lkbgklotgako ruza,g.sbgbzv uafulgvoak,gul gbmurzg rppuzuliuag.tgbmu
aqkz jggBmugcrlxglunuzg ulruagbmugpruo gbkgvltgqmkgqramgbkgprxmb;gvl 
qmulgbmutgvzugwuzaklagkpgesvorbt;gmugokkcagkl,gzuqvz rlxgbmugnribkzgqrbm
vgimvrlgkpgxko ,--pkzgqmrimgvltgklugqmkgwouvauagfvtgprxmbgqrbmgmrfgvxvrl,
akgbmvb,g.tgmvnrlxgikfugkppgpzkfgklugikf.vb,gmugmvagulxvxu gmrfauopgrl
fvltj

Rpgqugbmksxmbg.tgnrzbsugbkg.ugvoqvtagfvabuzagkpgkszgulufrua,gvl gbk
bzrsfwmgknuzgbmufgvbgwouvaszu,gqugamkso g.ugakzztgbmutgamkso guaivwugpzkf
sagvagbmutg k,g.tg trlx:g.sbgqugmvnugvgfrl gbkgiklesuz,gfkzugqrbmgavpubt
bmvlgmklksz,gvl ,grlgkszgesvzzuo,gfkzugwszasugbmugul gbmvlgbmugxokztj

ValrsagWkoork,gqmk,gvag.urlxgvgqkzbmtgfvl,gqvagbmugouaagbkg.uguhisau ,
ikffrbbu gvgorcu,guzzkz,gqmul,gmvnrlxgqzrbbulgvgor.uogvxvrlabgWovlisa,gmu
pkz.kzugbkgws.oramgrbgbroogmugqvag uv ;gqmrimgragbkg.rbugklu’agbmsf.gvbgv
.orl gfvl,gbkgzvrogvbgklugqmkgrag uvp,gbkgqksl gvgfvlgqmkgmvaglkgpuuorlx,
zvbmuzgbmvlgbkgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgmragzuaulbfulbjggVl grbgqvagvoakgavr gkp
mrfgbmvbgrbgqvagklotgpkzgmk.xk.orlagbkgqzuabougqrbmgbmug uv j

Mugqmkgabvtagbkgauugbmugvsbmkzg ru,gqmkaugqzrbrlxagmugrlbul agbk
esuabrkl,gqmvbg kuagmugavtg.sbgbmvbgmugragquvcgrlgmragvxxzuaarnuluaa?
Rbgqvagbko gbkgVzrabkbougbmvbgakfugklugmv gawkculgroogkpgmrf:g“Oubgmrf
 kgfkzu,”gavr gmu;g“oubgmrfgqmrwgfugbkk,gwzknr u gRgvfglkbgbmuzuj”

Kszgpvbmuzagiklbulbu gbmufauonuagqrbmgzunulxrlxgvlgrlasobgqrbmgbmugoru,
bmugorugqrbmgvg.khgkpgbmuguvz,gvl gakgpkzqvz ;gbmutgquzugnvorvlbgulksxm
lkbgbkgpuvzgbmurzgv nuzavzrua,gornrlxgvl gwzknkcu gqugbzuf.ougpkzgpuvzgak
akklgvagqugauugbmufgklgpkkbjggVl gbmvbgbmragragak,g kuaglkbgkszglk.ou
wzvibriugkpgbmuaug vta,guesvootgbkgwzkauisbugbkg uvbmg.kbmgmrfgbmvbgmva
kppul u gsagvl gmrfgqugmvnugkppul u ,gfvcugrbgksb?gg‘Bragvoakgvgcrl 
kpgikqvz riugbmvbgmvagrlbzk siu gbmugisabkfgkpgmvnrlxgauikl a,gbmrz a,
vl gpkszbmagrlgkszg suoa;gbmutgquzugpkzfuzotg suoa;gbmutgvzuglkq
acrzframua,gzuliklbzua,gvl g.vbbouajggAkorbs ugqva,g ks.bouaa,gbuzzr.ou
bkgbmkaugqmkgquzugbmugprzabgrlnulbkzagkpgbmragwzvibriu:

ggggggggggggggg“Essfgrlgaugisresugfrlrfsfgpr sirvuguaaub,”

pkzglvbszvootgvltgikfwvltgqmvbunuzgragiklakovbkztgrlg vlxuzjggBmrz 
wuzaklagquzugpkzfuzotgivoou grlgbkgwzunulbg rakz uzgvl gpksogwovtgklot,
vl gbkg.ugqrbluaagkpgbmugpkzbslugkpgbmugikf.vb;g.sbglkqgbmutgmvnug.zksxmb
rbgbkgbmragwvaagbmvbgbmugqrbluaauagbmufauonuagulxvxu;gqmkunuzgragrlnrbu 
ivllkbgmvl akfuotgabvl g.tgvagvlgr ougawuibvbkz,gpkzgpuvzgkpg.urlx
asawuibu gurbmuzgkpgqvlbgkpgvppuibrklgkzgkpgikszvxujgg.uar uagbmu
rlysabriugvl gslqkzbmrluaagkpgasimgvlgvibrkl,gkpgulxvxrlxgkbmuzgabzulxbm
vl gnvokszgrlgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgtkszgmklkszgbmvlgtkszgkql,gRgikliurnugrb
vg rav nvlbvxugbkgvg.zvnugfvl,gvl gqmkgqmkootgzuoruagswklgmrfauop,gbk
amsppougmragpkzbslugqrbmgbmvbgkpgvgauikl ;gunuztgklugzslagmvdvz gulksxm
mrfauopgqrbmksbgmvdvz rlxgpkzgvlkbmuz,gvl gmvagulksxmgbkg kgbkgvaaszu
mrfauopgrlgmragkqlgnvokszgpkzgbmug upuliugkpgmragorpu,gqrbmksbgrlbzsabrlx
vgbmrlxgakg uvzgrlgvgbmrz gfvl’agmvl jggPkz,grpgrbg.uglkbguhwzuaaot
vxzuu gswklg.upkzugbkgbmugiklbzvzt,g‘bragvgikf.rlu gwvzbtgkpgvoogpksz,
vl grpgtkszgauikl g.ugcroou ,gtksgmvnugbqkgbkg uvogqrbmvo,gqrbmgxkk 
zuvakl;gvl gbkgavtgbmvbgrbgragpksogwovt,grbgragakgrl uu ,gvagrbgra,gquoo
vzfu ,gbkgvbbvicgvgfvlgqmkgmvag.sbgbmugmrobgkpgvg.zkculgaqkz grlgmra
mvl ,gkz,giouvzgvl gslbksimu ,gvgfvlgqmkgrag uawuzvbuotgqksl u :g.sbgrp
bmuaug.ugv nvlbvxuagtksgmvnugxkbg.tgprxmbrlx,gtksgfvtgfvcugsaugkpgbmuf
qrbmksbgzuwzkvimjggBmug rawvzrbtgvl grluesvorbtgvzugklotgqurxmu gvl 
iklar uzu gpzkfgbmugikl rbrklgkpgbmugikf.vbvlbagqmulgbmutg.uxvl;gvagbk
bmugzuab,gtksgfsabgbvcugtkszgimvliu:gvl gbmksxmgtksgmv ,gvoklu,gbmzuu
ulufruagswklgtksgvbgkliu,gtkszgbqkgikfwvlrklag.urlxgcroou ,gtksgmvnuglk
fkzugqzklxg klugtks,gbmvlgRgamkso g kgrlgvg.vbbou,g.tgzsllrlxgvgfvl
bmzksxmgqmkfgRgamkso gauugulxvxu gqrbmgklugkpgkszgkqlgful,gqrbmgbmugorcu
v nvlbvxujggBmuglvbszugkpgakirubtgqroogmvnugrbgakgbmvbgqmuzugbmuzugra
bzkkwgvxvrlabgbzkkw,gvagqmuzugkszg scugkpgKzouvlagimvooulxu gMulzt,gcrlx
kpgUlxovl ,gvgmsl zu gvxvrlabgvgmsl zu ;gbmzuugmsl zu gvxvrlabgvagfvlt,
vagbmugVzxrvlagvxvrlabgbmugOviu vufklrvla;gbmzuugbkgbmzuu,gvagbmugMkzvbrr
vxvrlabgbmugIszrvbrr,gbmugfsobrbs ugklgurbmuzgar ugragiklar uzu g.sbgva
klugarlxougfvl:gbmugmvdvz ,gqmuzunuzgbmuzugragikfwvlt,g.urlxgiklpsau gvl 
frhu j

Rgmvnugvg kfuabrigrlbuzuabgrlgbmrag raikszau;gpkzgftg.zkbmuz,gbmugArusz
 ugFvbbuiksokf,gqvagvbgZkfugvacu g.tgvgxulboufvlgqrbmgqmkfgmugmv glk
xzuvbgviesvrlbvliu,gvl gqmkgqvagvg upul vlbgimvooulxu g.tgvlkbmuz,gbkg.u
mragauikl ;grlgbmrag suogmugpksl gmrfauopgfvbimu gqrbmgvgxulboufvlgfsim
.ubbuzgclkqlgbkgmrfjgg(Rgqkso gpvrlgmvnugvlguhwovlvbrklgkpgbmuaugzsouagkp
mklksz,gqmrimgakgkpbulgamkicgvl giklpksl gbmkaugkpgzuvaklj)ggVpbuzgmvnrlx
 uawvbimu gmragfvl,gauurlxgbmugbqkgwzrlirwvoagabroogklgpkkbgvl gaksl ,gmu
zvlgrlgbkg raulxvxugmragpzrul jggQmvbgikso gmug kgouaa?gamkso gmugmvnu
abkk gabroo,gvl grpgimvliugqkso gmvnugkz uzu grbgak,gmvnugauulgmrfgmugqva
ikfugbmrbmuzgbkg upul gcroou g.upkzugmragpviu?gqmvbgmugmv gmrbmuzbkg klu
muowu glkbgbmug.sarluaa;gbmugesvzzuogqvagtubgsl uir u jggBmugikszbuat
bmvbgtksgivl,gvl giuzbvrlotgksxmbgbkgamuqgbkgtkszguluft,gqmulgtksgmvnu
zu siu gmrfgbkgvlgroogikl rbrklgvl gmvnugvgxzuvbgv nvlbvxugknuzgmrf,gRg k
lkbgauugmkqgtksgivlg kgrb,gqmuzugbmugrlbuzuabgkpgvlkbmuzgragikliuzlu ,
qmuzugtksgvzugklotgivoou grlgvagvlgvaarabvlb,gvl gbmugesvzzuograglklugkp
tksza:gmugikso glurbmuzg.ugysabglkzgikszbuksa,gvbgbmugmvdvz gkpgmrfgmu
qvagbmuzugbkgauznujggVl gmugqvagbmuzupkzugulovzxu gpzkfgbmugwzraklagkp
Rbvotgvbgbmugawuu tgvl gakouflgzuesuabgkpgkszgcrlxjggRl raizuubglvbrkl!
qugvzuglkbgiklbulbgbkgfvcugkszgnriuagvl gpkooruagclkqlgbkgbmugqkzo g.t
zuwkzbgklot,g.sbgqugfsabgxkgrlbkgpkzurxlgikslbzrua,gbmuzugbkgamkqgbmuf
qmvbgpkkoagqugvzujggWsbgbmzuugPzulimfulgrlbkgbmug uauzbagkpgOr.tv,gbmut
qrooglkbgornugvgfklbmgbkxubmuzgqrbmksbgprxmbrlx;gakgbmvbgtksgqkso gavt
bmragwuzuxzrlvbrklgquzugvgbmrlxgwszwkauotg uarxlu gbkgxrnugpkzurxluzagbmu
wouvaszugkpgkszgbzvxu rua,gvl ,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbkgasimgvagzuykriugvl 
ovsxmgvbgkszgfrauzruajggQugxkgrlbkgRbvotgbkgouvzlgbkgpuliu,gvl guhuzirau
bmugvzbgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgkszgornuag.upkzugqugmvnugouvzlu grb;gvl gtub,
.tgbmugzsougkpg rairworlu,gqugamkso gwsbgbmugbmukztg.upkzugbmugwzvibriuj
Qug raiknuzgkszauonuagbkg.ug.sbgouvzluza:

gggggggggggggg“Wzrfrbvugysnulsfgfrauzvu,g.uooresugpsbszr
ggggggggggggggg szvgzs rfulbvj”

ggggg[“Qzubimu gbmuguoufulbvztgbzrvoagkpgtksbm,gvl gmvz gbmu
gggggzs rfulbagkpgvwwzkvimrlxgqvzj”--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,ghrjg156j]

Rgclkqgbmvbgpulirlxgragvlgvzbgnuztgsaupsogbkgrbagul g(rlgvg suog.ubqrhb
bqkgwzrliua,giksarl-xuzfvla,grlgAwvrl,gbmuguo uz,gavtagOrnt,g.tgmragacroo
vl g uhbuzrbtgrlgvzfa,guvarotgknuzikfrlxgbmugxzuvbuzgvl gfkzugvqcqvz 
abzulxbmgkpgbmugtkslxuz),gvl gkpgqmrimgbmugclkqou xu,gvagRguhwuzrfulbvoot
clkq,gmvagrlawrzu gakfugqrbmgikszvxugv.knugbmurzglvbszvogfuvaszu;g.sb
bmragraglkbgwzkwuzotgnvoksz,g.uivsaugrbgaswwkzbagrbauopgswklgv  zuaa,gvl 
ragpksl u gswklgakfubmrlxg.uar uagrbauopjggBmugmklkszgkpgikf.vbgiklaraba
rlgbmugyuvoksatgkpgikszvxu,gvl glkbgkpgacroo;gvl gbmuzupkzugRgmvnugclkql
vgpzrul gkpgfrlu,gpvfu gvagvgxzuvbgfvabuzgrlgbmraguhuzirau,grlgmra
esvzzuoagfvcugimkriugkpgasimgvzfagvagfrxmbg uwzrnugmrfgkpgbmragv nvlbvxu
vl gbmvbgqmkootg uwul u gswklgpkzbslugvl gvaaszvliu,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkb
vbbzr.sbugmragnribkztgzvbmuzgbkgmragacroogrlgpulirlxgbmvlgmragnvokszj
QmulgRgqvagtkslx,gxulboufulgvnkr u gbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgxkk gpuliuzagva
rlyszrksagbkgbmuf,gvl gouvzlu gbkgpuliugqrbmgvoogrfvxrlv.ougwzrnvitgvagv
bzv ugkpgas.boubt,g uzkxvbrlxgpzkfgbzsugvl glvbszvognvoksz:

gggggggggggggg“Lklgaimrnvzglklgwvzvz,glklgzrbrzvzar,
gggggggggggggggNkxorklgikabkz,glugesrg uabzuddvgmvgwvzbu;
gggggggggggggggLklg vllkgrgikowrgkzgprlbr,gkzgwrulr,gkzgaivzar!
gggggggggggggggBkxorugo’rzvgvgrogpszkzgo’sakg ugo’vzbuj
gggggggggggggggK rgougawv ugkzzr.rofulbugsbvzar
gggggggggggggggVgfuddkgrogpuzzk;grogwrug ’kzfvglklgwvzbu,
gggggggggggggggAufwzugvgrogwrugpuzfk,gvgovgfvlgaufwzugrlgfkbk;
gggggggggggggggLugaiul ugbvxorkgrlgnvl,glugwslbvgvgnkbkj”

gggggggggg[“Bmutglurbmuzgamzvlc,glkzgnvlbvxugaksxmbgkpgxzksl ,
ggggggggggBmutgbzvnuza’ glkb,glkzgacrwbgpzkfgwvzbgbkgwvzb,
ggggggggggBmurzg.okqagquzuglurbmuzgpvoau,glkzgpurxlu gpksl :
ggggggggggRlgprxmb,gbmurzgzvxugqkso goubgbmufgsauglkgvzbj
ggggggggggBmurzgaqkz agbkxubmuzgiovamgqrbmg zuv psogaksl ,
ggggggggggBmurzgpuubgabvl gpvab,gvl glurbmuzgabrzglkzgabvzb,
ggggggggggBmutgfknugbmurzgmvl a,gabuv pvabgbmurzgpuubgzufvrlj
ggggggggggLkzg.okqglkzgpkrlgbmutgabzkkc,gkzgbmzsabgrlgnvrlj”
ggggggggggg--Bvaak,gXruzsajggOr.j,gijg12,gabjg55,gPvrzpvh’agbzvlaovbrklj]

.sbba,gbrobrlx,gvl g.vzzruza,gbmugpurlbgkpgqvzorcugprxmba,gquzugbmu
uhuzirauagkpgkszgpkzupvbmuza:gbmragkbmuzguhuziraugragakgfsimgbmugouaa
lk.ou,gvagrbgklotgzuawuibagvgwzrnvbugul ;gbmvbgbuvimuagsagbkg uabzktgklu
vlkbmuzgvxvrlabgovqgvl gysabriu,gvl gbmvbgunuztgqvtgvoqvtagwzk siuagnuzt
rooguppuibajggRbgragfsimgfkzugqkzbmtgvl gfkzug.uikfrlxgbkguhuzirau
kszauonuagrlgbmrlxagbmvbgabzulxbmulgbmvlgbmvbgquvculgkszgxknuzlfulbgvl 
bmvbgbul gbkgbmugws.origavpubtgvl gikffklgxokztjggBmugiklaso,gWs.orsa
Zsbrorsa,ggqvagbmugprzabgqmkgbvsxmbgbmugako ruzagbkgmvl ougbmurzgvzfa
qrbmgacroo,gvl gykrlu gvzbgqrbmgnvoksz,glkbgpkzgbmugzraugkpgwzrnvbu
esvzzuo,g.sbgpkzgqvzgvl gbmugesvzzuoagkpgbmugwukwougkpgZkfu;gvgwkwsovz
vl girnrog upuliujggVl g.uar uagbmuguhvfwougkpgIvuavz,ggqmkgikffvl u gmra
fulgbkgamkkbgimrupotgvbgbmugpviugkpgWkfwut’agako ruzagrlgbmug.vbbougkp
Wmvzavorv,gvgbmksavl gkbmuzgikffvl uzagmvnugvoakg.ubmksxmbgbmufgbkgrlnulb
luqgpkzfagkpgquvwklagvl gluqgqvtagkpgabzrcrlxgvl g upul rlx,gviikz rlxgva
kiivarklgamkso gzuesrzuj

.sbgvagWmrokwkufulgikl uflu gqzuaborlx,gqmuzurlgmuguhiuoou ,g.uivsaugbmu
wzuwvzvbrnuagbmvbgquzugbmuzurlgufwoktu gquzug rppuzrlxgpzkfgbmkaugbmvb
vwwuzbvrlgbkgfrorbvztg rairworlu,gbkgqmrimgvoklugmugikliurnu gfulgkp
mklkszgksxmbgqmkootgbkgvwwotgbmufauonua;gakgrbgauufagbkgfugbmvbgbmra
v  zuaagbkgqmrimgqugpkzfgkszgorf.a,gbmkaugqzrbmrlxagvl gfkbrklagtkslxgful
vzugbvsxmbgrlgbmragluqgaimkko,gvzuglkbgklotgkpglkgsau,g.sbgzvbmuz
iklbzvztgvl gmszbpsogbkgbmugwzvibriugkpgprxmbgrlg.vbbou;gvl gvoakgksz
wukwougikffklotgfvcugsaugkpgwvzbrisovzgquvwkla,gvl gwuisorvzotg uarxlu 
pkzg suo;gvl gRgmvnugauul,gqmulgrbgmvag.uulg ravwwzknu ,gbmvbgvgxulboufvl
imvooulxu gbkgprxmbgqrbmgzvwruzgvl gwkrxlvz gvwwuvzu grlgbmugvzzvtgkpgv
fvl-vb-vzfa,gvl gbmvbgvlkbmuzgamkso gbvcugmragiokvcgrlabuv gkpgmra
wkrxlvz jggRbgragqkzbmtgkpgiklar uzvbrklgbmvbgOvimuagrlgWovbk,gawuvcrlx
kpgouvzlrlxgbkgpuliugvpbuzgkszgfvlluz,gavtagbmvbgmuglunuzgcluqgvltgxzuvb
ako ruzgikfugksbgkpgbmvbgaimkko,guawuirvootgbmugfvabuzagkpgrb:gvl ,
rl uu ,gvagbkgbmuf,gkszguhwuzruliugbuooagvagfsimjggVagbkgbmugzuab,gqugfvt
vbgouvabgiklios ugbmvbgbmutgvzugesvorbruagkpglkgzuovbrklgkz
ikzzuawkl uliu;gvl grlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgbmugimro zulgkpgmragxknuzlfulb,
Wovbkgrlbuz ribagbmugvzbgkpg.khrlx,grlbzk siu g.tgVftisagvl gUwursa,gvl 
bmvbgkpgqzuaborlx,g.tgVlbvusagvl gIuzitk,g.uivsaugbmutgmvnugvlkbmuzgul 
bmvlgbkgzul uzgtksbmgprbgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgqvzgvl giklbzr.sbuglkbmrlxgbk
rbjgg.sbgRgauugbmvbgRgmvnugakfuqmvbgabzvtu gpzkfgftgbmufuj

BmugUfwuzkzgFvszrirsa,g.urlxgv nuzbrau g.tg zuvfagvl gaunuzvo
wzkxlkabria,gbmvbgklugWmkiva,gvlgk.aiszugako ruz,gamkso gcroogmrf,
esuabrklu gmragakl-rl-ovq,gWmrorw,gqmkgbmragWmkivagqva,gvl gqmvbgquzugmra
lvbszu,gesvorbrua,gvl gfvlluza;gvl gakgakklgvagWmrorw,gvfklxabgkbmuz
bmrlxa,gmv gbko gmrfgbmvbgmugqvagikqvz otgvl gbrfkzksa,gbmugufwuzkz
rffu rvbuotgiklios u gbmulgbmvbgmugqvagvgfsz uzuzgvl gizsuojggQmvbgragrb
bmvbgfvcuagbtzvlbagakgavlxsrlvzt?gg‘Bragklotgbmugakorirbs ugpkzgbmurzgkql
avpubt,gvl gbmvbgbmurzgpvrlbgmuvzbagivlgpszlramgbmufgqrbmglkgkbmuzgfuvla
kpgauiszrlxgbmufauonuagbmvlgrlguhbuzfrlvbrlxgbmkaugqmkgfvtgmszbgbmuf,
unulgakgfsimgvagqkful,gpkzgpuvzgkpgvgaizvbim:

ggggggggggggggg“Islibvgpuzrb,g sfgislibvgbrfuzj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Mugabzrcuagvbgvoogqmkgpuvzagvooj”
gggggggggggggggg--Iovs rsa,grlgUsbzkwj,grjg182j]

Bmugprzabgizsuobruagvzuguhuzirau gpkzgbmufauonuagbmuliugawzrlxagbmugpuvz
kpgvgysabgzunulxu,gqmrimgvpbuzqvz agwzk siuagvgauzruagkpgluqgizsuobrua,
bkgk.orbuzvbugklugvlkbmuzjggWmrorw,gcrlxgkpgFviu kl,gqmkgmv gakgfsimgbk
 kgqrbmgbmugwukwougkpgZkfu,gvxrbvbu gqrbmgbmugmkzzkzgkpgakgfvltgfsz uza
ikffrbbu g.tgmragkz uz,gvl g ks.brlxgkpg.urlxgv.ougbkgcuuwgmrfauopgauiszu
pzkfgakgfvltgpvfrorua,gvbg rnuzagbrfuagfkzbvootgrlyszu gvl gkppul u g.t
mrf,gzuakonu gbkgaurdugvoogbmugimro zulgkpgbmkaugmugmv givsau gbkg.u
aovrl,gbkg uawvbimgbmufg vrotgklugvpbuzgvlkbmuz,gvl gakgbkguabv.oramgmra
kqlgzuwkauj

Prlugfvbbuzgraglunuzgrfwuzbrlulb,gmkqunuzgwoviu ;gvl gbmuzupkzugR,gqmk
fkzugiklar uzgbmugqurxmbgvl gsbrorbtgkpgqmvbgRg uornuzgbmvlgrbagkz uzgvl 
iklluibrkl,gluu glkbgpuvzgrlgbmragwoviugbkg.zrlxgrlgvlguhiuooulbgabkzt,
bmksxmgrbg.ugvgorbboug.t-bmu-.t;gpkzgqmulgbmutgvzugzrimgrlgbmurzgkql
lvbrnug.uvsbt,gvl gvzugv.ougbkgysabrptgbmufauonua,gbmugouvabgul gkpgv
mvrzgqroogauznugbkg zvqgbmufgrlbkgftg raikszauj

Vfklxabgkbmuzagikl uflu g.tgWmrorw,gmv g.uulgklugMuzk risa,gwzrliugkp
Bmuaavot;gmugmv ,gfkzuknuz,gvpbuzgmrfgivsau gmragbqkgakla-rl-ovqgbkg.u
wsbgbkg uvbm,guvimgouvnrlxgvgaklgnuztgtkslxg.umrl gmrfjggBmukhulvgvl 
Vzimkgquzugbmurzgbqkgqr kqajggBmukhulv,gbmksxmgmrxmotgikszbu gbkgrb,
ikso glkbg.ugwuzasv u gbkgfvzztgvxvrl:gVzimkgfvzzru gWkzra,gbmugxzuvbuab
fvlgvfklxgbmugVUlrvla,gvl g.tgmrfgmv gvgxzuvbgfvltgimro zul,gqmkfgamu,
 trlx,goupbgvbgvgnuztgbul uzgvxujggBmukhulv,gfknu gqrbmgvgfvbuzlvo
imvzrbtgbkqvz agmuzgluwmuqa,gbmvbgamugfrxmbgmvnugbmufgsl uzgmuzgkqlgutua
vl grlgmuzgkqlgwzkbuibrkl,gfvzzru gWkzra:gqmulgwzuaulbotgikfuagv
wzkiovfvbrklgkpgbmugcrlx’agu ribjggBmrag.zvnu-awrzrbu gfkbmuz,gasawuibrlx
bmugizsuobtgkpgWmrorw,gvl gvpzvr gkpgbmugrlakouliugkpgbmugako ruza
bkqvz agbmuaugimvzfrlxgvl gbul uzgimro zulgqvagakg.ko gvagbkg uiovzugmvb
amugqkso gzvbmuzgcroogbmufgqrbmgmuzgkqlgmvl agbmvlg uornuzgbmufjggWkzra,
abvzbou gvbgbmragwzkbuabvbrkl,gwzkfrau gmuzgbkgabuvogbmufgvqvt,gvl gbk
bzvlawkzbgbmufgbkgVbmula,gvl gbmuzugikffrbgbmufgbkgbmugisabk tgkpgakfu
pvrbmpsogpzrul agkpgmrajggBmutgbkkc,gbmuzupkzu,gbmugkwwkzbslrbtgkpgvl
vllsvogpuvabgqmrimgqvagiuou.zvbu gvbgVUlrvgrlgmklkszgkpgVUluva,gvl 
bmrbmuzgbmutgqulbjggMvnrlxgvwwuvzu g.tg vtgvbgbmugws.origiuzufklruagvl 
.vlesub,gbmutgabkougbmuglrxmbgpkookqrlxgrlbkgvgnuaauogovr gzuv tgpkzgbmu
wszwkau,gbkguaivwugvqvtg.tgauvjggBmugqrl gwzknu giklbzvzt,gvl gprl rlx
bmufauonuagrlgbmugfkzlrlxgqrbmrlgarxmbgkpgbmugovl gqmuliugbmutgmv 
ovslimu gknuzlrxmb,gvl g.urlxgwszasu g.tgbmugxsvz agkpgbmugwkzb,gWkzra
wuziurnrlxgbmra,gov.kszu gvoogmugikso gbkgfvcugbmugfvzrluzag kgbmurz
sbfkabgbkguaivwugpzkfgbmugwszasuzajgg.sbgBmukhulv,gpzvlbrigqrbmgvppuibrkl
vl gzunulxu,grlgwszasvliugkpgmuzgpkzfuzgzuakosbrkl,gwzuwvzu g.kbmgquvwkla
vl gwkrakl,gvl guhwkarlxgbmufg.upkzugbmuf;g“Xkgbk,gftgimro zul,”gavr 
amu,g“ uvbmgraglkqgbmugklotgfuvlagkpgtkszg upuliugvl gor.uzbt,gvl gamvoo
v frlrabuzgkiivarklgbkgbmugxk agbkguhuziraugbmurzgavizu gysabriu:gbmuau
amvzwgaqkz a,gvl gbmuaugpsoogiswa,gqroogkwulgtksgbmugqvtgrlbkgrb;
ikszvxu,gpuvzglkbmrlx!ggVl gbmks,gftgakl,gqmkgvzbgbmuguo uab,gbvcugbmra
abuuogrlbkgbmtgmvl ,gbmvbgbmksgfvtuabgbmugfkzug.zvnuotg ruj”ggBmu
imro zulgmvnrlxgklgklugar ugakgwkquzpsogvgikslauookz,gvl gbmuguluftgvb
bmurzgbmzkvbagklgbmugkbmuz,gzslgvoogkpgbmufguvxuzotgswklgqmvbgqvagluhbgbk
mvl ;gvl ,gmvopg uv ,gquzugbmzkqlgrlbkgbmugauvjggBmukhulv,gwzks gkp
mvnrlxgakgxokzrksaotgwzknr u gpkzgbmugavpubtgkpgmuzgimro zul,giovawrlx
muzgvzfagqrbmgxzuvbgvppuibrklgv.ksbgmuzgmsa.vl ’agluicjgg“Oubgsa,gft
pzrul ,”gavr gamu,g“pkookqgbmuaug.kta,gvl gulyktgbmugavfugauwsoimzugbmut
 k”;gvl gak,gmvnrlxguf.zviu ,gbmutgbmzuqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgrlbkgbmu
auv;gakgbmvbgbmugamrwgqvagivzzru --.vicgqrbmksbgbmugkqluzagrlbkgbmu
mvz.kszj

Btzvlba,gvbgkliug.kbmgbkgcroogvl gbkgfvcugbmurzgvlxuzgpuob,gmvnugufwoktu 
bmurzgivwvirbtgbkgrlnulbgbmugfkabgorlxuzrlxg uvbmajggBmutgqroogmvnugbmurz
ulufruag uawvbimu ,g.sbglkbgakgpvabgbmvbgbmutgfvtglkbgmvnugouraszugbk
bvabugbmurzgnulxuvliujggVl gbmuzurlgbmutgvzugfrxmbrotgwuzwouhu ;gpkzgrp
bmugbkzfulbagbmutgrlporibgvzugnrkoulb,gbmutgvzugamkzb;grpgoklx,gbmutgvzu
lkbgbmulgakgwvrlpsogvagbmutg uarzu;gvl gbmsagwovxsugbmufauonuagrlgimkriu
kpgbmugxzuvbuabgizsuobtjggKpgbmragqugmvnugvgbmksavl guhvfwouagrl
vlbresrbt,gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgqu,gslvqvzua,g kglkbgzubvrlgakfugbzviua
kpgbmrag.vz.vzrbtj

Voogbmvbguhiuu agvgarfwoug uvbmgvwwuvzagbkgfugv.akosbugizsuobtjggKsz
ysabriugivllkbguhwuibgbmvbgmu,gqmkfgbmugpuvzgkpg trlxg.tg.urlxg.umuv u 
kzgmvlxu gqrooglkbgzuabzvrl,gamkso g.ugvltgfkzugvqu g.tgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl
kpgvgovlxsramrlxgprzu,gwrliuza,gkzgbmugqmuuojggVl gRgclkqglkb,grlgbmu
fuvlbrfu,gqmubmuzgqug kglkbgbmzkqgbmufgrlbkg uawvrz;gpkzgrlgqmvb
ikl rbrklgivlg.ugbmugaksogkpgvgfvl,guhwuibrlxgpksz-vl -bqulbtgmksza
bkxubmuzgbkg.ug.zkculgswklgvgqmuuo,gkzgvpbuzgbmugko gqvt,glvrou gbkgv
izkaa?ggYkauwmsagzuovbuagbmvbgrlgbmugbrfugkpgbmugqvzgbmugZkfvlagfv ugrl
Ys vuv,gmvwwulrlxgbkgwvaag.tgqmuzugbmutgmv gbmzuug vtag.upkzugizsirpru 
iuzbvrlgYuqa,gmugvfklxabgbmufgcluqgbmzuugkpgmragkqlgpzrul a,gvl gk.bvrlu 
bmugpvnkszgkpgmvnrlxgbmufgbvculg kql,gkpgqmkfgbqk,gmugavta,g ru ;gbmu
bmrz gornu gvgxzuvbgqmrougvpbuzj

Imvoikl tova,gvgqzrbuzgkpgxkk gizu rb,grlgbmugzuikz agmugmvagoupbg.umrl 
mrfgkpgbmrlxagbmvbgmvwwulu grlgmragbrfu,gvl gluvzgmrf,gbuooagsa,gvagkp
bmugfkabguhiuaarnugbkzfulb,gkpgbmvbgbmugUfwuzkzgFkmvffu gnuztgkpbul
wzvibrau ,gkpgisbbrlxgkppgfulgrlgbmugfr  oug.tgbmug rvwmzvxfgqrbmgklu
.okqgkpgvgairfrbvz,gqmuliugrbgpkookqu gbmvbgbmutg ru gvagrbgquzugbqk
 uvbmagvbgkliu;gvl g.kbmgbmugklugwvzb,gavtagmu,gvl gbmugkbmuz,gquzugauul
bkgabrzgvl gabzrnugvgxzuvbgqmrougvpbuzgrlgnuztgxzuvbgbkzfulbjggRg kglkb
bmrlcgbmuzugqvagvltgxzuvbgasppuzrlxgrlgbmragfkbrklgbmugbkzfulbagbmvbgvzu
bmugfkabg zuv psogbkgokkcgklgvzuglkbgvoqvtagbmugxzuvbuabgbkgul szu;gvl gR
prl gbmkaugbmvbgkbmuzgmrabkzrvlagzuovbugbkgmvnug.uulgwzvibrau g.tgmrf
swklgbmugUwrzkbgokz a,gvzugfkzugmkzzr gvl gizsuo,gqmuzugbmutgquzu
ikl uflu gbkg.ugpovtu gvornugwruiufuvo,gvpbuzgakgfvorirksagvgfvlluzgbmvb
bmutgiklbrlsu gprpbuulg vtagrlgbmvbgfrauztj

Vl gbmuaugkbmuzgbqk:gIzkuasa,gmvnrlxgivsau gvgxulboufvl,gbmugpvnkszrbugkp
mrag.zkbmuzgWvlbvoukl,gbkg.ugaurdu ,givzzru gmrfgrlbkgvgpsoouz’agamkw,
qmuzugmugivsau gmrfgbkg.ugaizvbimu gvl givz u gqrbmgbmugivz agvl gikf.a
.uoklxrlxgbkgbmvbgbzv u,gbroogmug ru jggXukzxugAuimuo,gimrupgikffvl uzgkp
bmugwuvavlbagkpgWkovl ,gqmkgikffrbbu gakgfvltgfraimrupagsl uzgbmugbrbou
kpgbmugIzsav u,g.urlxg upuvbu grlg.vbbougvl gbvculg.sgbmugNvtnk ugkp
Bzvlatonvlrv,gqvagbmzuug vtag.ksl glvcu gswklgbmugzvicguhwkau gbkgvoo
akzbagkpgbkzfulbagbmvbgvltgklugikso giklbzrnugvxvrlabgmrf:g szrlxgqmrim
brfugfvltgkbmuzgwzrakluzagquzugcuwbgpvabrlx;grlgbmugul ,gmugornrlxgvl 
okkcrlxgkl,gbmutgfv ugmrag.uoknu g.zkbmuzgOsivb,gpkzgqmkfgvoklugmu
ulbzuvbu ,gbvcrlxgklgmrfauopgbmug.ovfugkpgvoogbmurzgunrogvibrklag zrlc
mrag.okk ,gvl givsau gbqulbtgkpgmragfkabgpvnkszu givwbvrlagbkgpuu gswkl
mrf,gbuvzrlxgmragpouamgrlgwruiuagqrbmgbmurzgbuubm,gvl gaqvookqrlxgbmu
fkzauoajggBmugzufvrl uzgkpgmrag.k tgvl gmrag.kquoa,gakgakklgvagmugqva
 uv ,gquzug.krou ,gvl gkbmuzagkpgmragpkookquzagikfwuoou gbkguvbgbmufj




IMVWBUZgHHNRRR

VOOgBMRLXAgMVNUgBMURZgAUVAKL

AsimgvagikfwvzugIvbkgbmugIulakzgqrbmgbmugtkslxuzgIvbk,gqmkgcroou 
mrfauop,gikfwvzugbqkg.uvsbrpsoglvbszua,gfsimgzuauf.orlxgklugvlkbmuzj
Bmugprzabgviesrzu gmragzuwsbvbrklgaunuzvogqvta,gvl guhiuoagrlgfrorbvzt
uhwokrbagvl gbmugsbrorbtgkpgmragws.origufwoktfulba;g.sbgbmugnrzbsugkpgbmu
tkslxuz,g.uar uagbmvbgrbgquzug.ovawmuftgbkgikfwvzugvltgbkgrbgrlgnrxksz,
qvagfsimgfkzugwszugvl gsl.ouframu jggPkzgqmkgikso gv.akonugbmvbgkpgbmu
Iulakzgpzkfgulntgvl gvf.rbrkl,gmvnrlxg vzu gbkgvbbvicgbmugmklkszgkp
Airwrk,gvgfvlgrlgxkk luaagvl gvoogkbmuzguhiuooulbgesvorbruagrlprlrbuot
.utkl gmrfgkzgvltgkbmuzgkpgmragbrfu?

Bmvbgqmrimgbmut,gzuwkzbgkpgmrf,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbmvbgrlgmraguhbzufu
ko gvxugmugwsbgmrfauopgswklgouvzlrlxgbmugXzuucgbklxsugqrbmgakgxzuu tgvl
vwwubrbu,gvagrpgbkgesulimgvgoklxgbmrzab,g kuaglkbgauufgbkgfugbkgfvcugfsim
pkzgmragmklksz;grbg.urlxgwzkwuzotgqmvbgqugivoogpvoorlxgrlbkgauikl 
imro mkk jggVoogbmrlxagmvnugbmurzgauvakla,gunulgxkk gklua,gvl gRgfvtgavt
ftgWvbuzlkabuzgksbgkpgbrfu;gvagbmutgviisau gBjgEsrlbsagPovfrlrsa,gbmvb
.urlxgxuluzvogkpgvlgvzft,gmugqvagauulgwzvtrlxgvwvzbgrlgbmugbrfugkpgv
.vbbougbmvbgmugqklj

gggggggggg“Rfwklrbgprlufgavwrulagubgzu.sagmkluabraj”

ggggg[“Bmugqraugfvlgorfrbagunulgmkluabgbmrlxaj”--Ysnulvo,gnrjg444]

Us ufklr va,gauurlxgHulkizvbuagqmulgnuztgko ,gabroognuztgrlbulbgswklgmra
aimkkogouibszua:g“Qmulgqroogbmragfvlg.ugqrau,”gavr gmu,g“rpgmugragtub
ouvzlrlx?”ggVl gWmrokwvuful,gbkgbmkaugqmkguhbkoou gCrlxgWbkouftgpkzgunuzt
 vtgrlszrlxgmragwuzaklgbkgbmuguhuziraugkpgvzfa:g“Rbgraglkb,”gavr gmu,
“ikfful v.ougrlgvgcrlxgkpgmragvxugbkguhuziraugmrfauopgrlgbmuaugbmrlxa;gmu
ksxmbglkqgzuvootgbkgufwoktgbmufj”ggBmugtkslxgvzugbkgfvcugbmurz
wzuwvzvbrkla,gbmugko gbkgulyktgbmuf,gavtgbmugavxua:gvl gbmugxzuvbuabgnriu
bmutgk.auznugrlgsagragbmvbgkszg uarzuagrliuaavlbotgxzkqgtkslxgvxvrl;gqu
vzugvoqvtagzu-.uxrllrlxgbkgornuj

Kszgabs ruagvl g uarzuagamkso gakfubrfug.ugaular.ougkpgvxu;gtubgqugmvnu
klugpkkbgrlgbmugxzvnugvl gabroogkszgvwwubrbuagvl gwszasrbagawzrlxgunuzt
 vtgvluqgqrbmrlgsa:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Bsgauivl vgfvzfkzv
ggggggggggggggggggggOkivagas.grwasfgpslsa,gub,gauwsoizr
ggggggggggggggggggggRffufkz,gabzsrag kfkaj”

ggggg[“Tksgvxvrlabgbmugbrfugkpg uvbmgmvnugfvz.ougisbgpkzgsau,gvl ,
gggggpkzxubpsogkpgbmugbkf.,g.sro gmksauaj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg18,g17j]

Bmugoklxuabgkpgftg uarxlagraglkbgkpgv.knugvgtuvz’aguhbulb;gRgbmrlcgkp
lkbmrlxglkqg.sbgul rlx;gzr gftauopgkpgvoogluqgmkwuagvl gulbuzwzraua;gbvcu
ftgovabgouvnugkpgunuztgwoviugRg uwvzbgpzkf,gvl gunuztg vtg rawkaauaa
ftauopgkpgqmvbgRgmvnuj

gggggggggg“Korfgyvfgluigwuzrbgesriesvfgfrmr,gluigviesrzrbszjjjj
ggggggggggwosagaswuzuabgnrvbrirgesvfgnrvuj”

ggggg[“Muliupkzqvz gRgqrooglurbmuzgokau,glkzguhwuibgbkgxub:gRgmvnugfkzu
gggggqmuzuqrbmgbkg upzvtgftgykszlut,gbmvlgRgmvnugqvtgbkgxkj”gg(Kz):
ggggg“Mrbmuzbkglkbmrlxgkpgfugmvag.uulgokabgkzgxvrlu ;gfkzugzufvrlagbkgwvt
gggggbmugqvtgbmvlgbmuzugragqvtj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g77jgg(Bmugaulaugauufagbk
ggggg.ugbmvbgakgpvzgmugmv gfubgmraguhwulaua,g.sbgbmvbgpkzgbmugpsbszugmu
gggggqvagorcuotgbkgmvnugfkzugbmvlgmugzuesrzu j)]

gggggggggg“Nrhr,gub,gesufg u uzvbgiszasfgpkzbslv,gwuzuxrj”

ggggg[“Rgmvnugornu gvl gprlramu gbmugivzuuzgPkzbslugwoviu g.upkzugfuj”
gggggg--VUlur ,grnjg653j]

‘Bragrl uu gbmugklotgikfpkzbgRgprl grlgftgko gvxu,gbmvbgrbgfkzbrpruagrl
fugaunuzvogivzuagvl g uarzuagqmuzuqrbmgftgorpugmvag.uulg rabsz.u ;gbmu
ivzugmkqgbmugqkzo gxkua,gbmugivzugkpgzrimua,gkpgxzvl usz,gkpgclkqou xu,
kpgmuvobm,gkpgftauopjggBmuzugvzugfulgqmkgvzugouvzlrlxgbkgawuvcgvbgvgbrfu
qmulgbmutgamkso gouvzlgbkg.ugaroulbgpkzgunuzjggVgfvlgfvtgvoqvtagabs t,
.sbgmugfsabglkbgvoqvtagxkgbkgaimkkogqmvbgvgiklbufwbr.ougbmrlxgragvlgko 
V.uiu vzrvl!--[Auluiv,gUwjg36]

gggggggggggggg“ rnuzakag rnuzavgysnvlb;glklgkflr.sagvllra
gggggggggggggggKflrvgiklnulrslbj”

gggggggggg[“Nvzrksagbmrlxag uorxmbgnvzrksagful;gvoogbmrlxagvzuglkb
ggggggggggpkzgvoogvxuaj”--Xvooj,gUouxj,grjg104j]

Rpgqugfsabgabs t,goubgsagabs tgqmvbgragasrbv.ougbkgkszgwzuaulbgikl rbrkl,
bmvbgqugfvtgvlaquzgvagmug r ,gqmkg.urlxgvacu gbkgqmvbgul gmugabs ru grl
mrag uizuwrbgvxu,g“bmvbgRgfvtgxkgksbg.ubbuz,”gavr gmu,g“vl gvbgxzuvbuz
uvauj”ggAsimgvgabs tgqvagbmvbgkpgbmugtkslxuzgIvbk,gpuuorlxgmragul 
vwwzkvim,gvl gqmrimgmugfubgqrbmgrlgWovbk’ag raikszaugkpgbmugUbuzlrbtgkp
bmugAkso:glkb,gvagqugvzugbkg.uorunu,gbmvbgmugqvaglkbgoklxg.upkzu
pszlramu gqrbmgvoogakzbagkpgwzknrarklgpkzgasimgvg uwvzbszu;gpkzgkp
vaaszvliu,gvlguabv.oramu gqroogvl grlabzsibrkl,gmugmv gfkzugbmvlgWovbk
mv grlgvoogmragqzrbrlxa;gmragclkqou xugvl gikszvxugquzugrlgbmragzuawuib
v.knugwmrokakwmt;gmugvwworu gmrfauopgbkgbmragabs t,glkbgpkzgbmugauznriu
kpgmrag uvbm;g.sb,gvagvgfvlgqmkaugaouuwagquzuglunuzg rabsz.u grlgbmu
rfwkzbvliugkpgasimgvg uor.uzvbrkl,gmugvoak,gqrbmksbgimkriugkzgimvlxu,
iklbrlsu gmragabs ruagqrbmgbmugkbmuzgviisabkfvztgvibrklagkpgmragorpuj
Bmuglrxmbgbmvbgmugqvag ulru gbmugwzvubkzamrwgmugawulbgrlgwovt;gbmvb
qmuzurlgmugqvagbkg rugmugawulbgrlgzuv rlxjggBmugokaagurbmuzgkpgorpu
kzgkpgkppriugqvagvoogklugbkgmrfj




IMVWBUZgHHRH

KPgNRZBSU

Rgprl g.tguhwuzruliu,gbmvbgbmuzugragvgxkk g uvogbkg.ugavr g.ubqrhbgbmu
porxmbagvl gufkbrklagkpgbmugaksogkzgvgzuakosbugvl giklabvlbgmv.rb;gvl 
nuztgquoogwuziurnugbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgqugfvtglkbg k,glvt,gunulgbkgbmu
aszwvaarlxgbmug rnrlrbtgrbauop,gavtagvgiuzbvrlgwuzakl,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgra
fkzugbkgzul uzgvgfvl’agauopgrfwvaar.oug.tgmragkqlgabs tgvl grl sabzt,
bmvlgbkg.ugakg.tgmraglvbszvogikl rbrkl;gvl gunulgbkg.ugv.ougbkgiklykrlgbk
fvl’agrf.uirorbtgvl gpzvrobtgvgXk -orcugzuakosbrklgvl gvaaszvliu;g.sbgrb
rag.tgprbagvl gabvzba;gvl grlgbmugornuagkpgbmkaugmuzkuagkpgbrfuagwvab
bmuzugvzugakfubrfuagfrzvisoksagrfwsoaua,gvl gbmvbgauufgrlprlrbuotgbk
uhiuu gkszglvbszvogpkziu;g.sbgbmutgvzugrl uu gklotgrfwsoaua:gvl g‘bra
mvz gbkg.uorunu,gbmvbgbmuaugakguounvbu gesvorbruagrlgvgfvlgivlgak
bmkzksxmotgbrlibgvl grf.sugbmugaksogbmvbgbmutgamkso g.uikfugkz rlvzt,
vl ,gvagrbgquzu,glvbszvogrlgmrfjggRbgviir ulbvootgmvwwulagunulgbkgsa,
qmkgvzug.sbgv.kzbrnug.rzbmagkpgful,gakfubrfuagbkgovslimgkszgaksoa,gqmul
zksau g.tgbmug raikszauagkzguhvfwouagkpgkbmuza,gfsimg.utkl gbmurz
kz rlvztgabzubim;g.sbg‘bragvgcrl gkpgwvaarklgqmrimgwsamuagvl gvxrbvbua
bmuf,gvl grlgakfugakzbgzvnramuagbmufgpzkfgbmufauonua:g.sb,gbmra
wuzbsz.vbrklgkliugknuzikfu,gqugauugbmvbgbmutgrlaular.otgpovxgvl gaovicul
kpgbmufauonua,grpglkbgbkgbmugokquabg uxzuu,gvbgouvabgakgvagbkg.uglkgfkzu
bmugavfu;grlakfsimgvagbmvbgswklgunuztgbzrnrvogkiivarkl,gbmugokarlxgkpgv
.rz ,gkzgbmug.zuvcrlx,gkpgvgxovaa,gqugasppuzgkszauonuagbkg.ugfknu gorbbou
ouaagbmvlgklugkpgbmugikffklgwukwoujggRgvfgkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgkz uz,
fk uzvbrkl,gvl giklabvlitguhiuwbu ,gvoogbmrlxagvzugbkg.ug klug.tgvgfvl
bmvbgragnuztgrfwuzpuibgvl g upuibrnugrlgxuluzvojggBmuzupkzugrbgra,gavt
bmugAvxua,gbmvbgbkgfvcugvgzrxmbgys xfulbgkpgvgfvl,gtksgvzugimrupotgbkgwzt
rlbkgmragikffklgvibrkla,gvl gaszwzraugmrfgrlgmragunuzt vtgmv.rbj

Wtzzmk,gmugqmkguzuibu gakgwouvavlbgvgclkqou xugswklgrxlkzvliu,
ul uvnkszu ,gvagvoogbmugzuabgqmkgquzugzuvootgwmrokakwmuzag r ,gbkgfvcu
mragorpugikzzuawkl gqrbmgmrag kibzrlujggVl g.uivsaugmugfvrlbvrlu gbmu
rf.uirorbtgkpgmsfvlgys xfulbgbkg.ugakguhbzufugvagbkg.ugrlivwv.ougkpgvlt
imkriugkzgrliorlvbrkl,gvl gqkso gmvnugrbgwuzwubsvootgqvnuzrlxgvl 
asawul u ,giklar uzrlxgvl gzuiurnrlxgvoogbmrlxagvagrl rppuzulb,g‘bra
avr ,gbmvbgmugvoqvtagikfpkzbu gmrfauopgvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluzgvl 
ikslbulvliu:grpgmugmv g.uxslgvg raikszau,gmugqkso gvoqvtagul gqmvbgmugmv 
bkgavt,gbmksxmgbmugwuzaklgmugqvagawuvcrlxgbkgmv gxklugvqvt:grpgmugqvocu ,
muglunuzgabkwwu gpkzgvltgrfwu rfulbgbmvbgabkk grlgmragqvt,g.urlx
wzuauznu gpzkfgwzuirwriua,gikoorarklgqrbmgivzba,gvl gkbmuzgorcu
viir ulba,g.tgbmugivzugkpgmragpzrul a:gpkz,gbkgpuvzgkzgbkgvnkr gvltbmrlx,
mv g.uulgbkgamkicgmragkqlgwzkwkarbrkla,gqmrimg uwzrnu gbmugaulaua
bmufauonuagkpgvooguouibrklgvl giuzbvrlbtjggAkfubrfuagmugasppuzu grlirarkl
vl givsbuzruagqrbmgakgxzuvbgiklabvlitgvaglunuzgbkg.ugauulgakgfsimgvagbk
qrliujgg‘Bragakfubmrlxgbkg.zrlxgbmugaksogbkgbmuaugrfvxrlvbrkla;g‘bragfkzu
bkgykrlgbmuguppuiba,gvl gtubglkbgrfwkaar.ou;g.sbgbkgiklykrlgbmufgqrbm
asimgwuzaunuzvliugvl giklabvlitgvagbkgfvcugbmufgmv.rbsvo,gragiuzbvrlot,
rlgvbbufwbagakgzufkbugpzkfgbmugikffklgsavxu,gvofkabgrlizu r.ougbkg.u
 klujggBmuzupkzugrbgqva,gbmvbg.urlxgakfubrfugbvculgrlgmragmksaugamvzwot
aiko rlxgqrbmgmragarabuz,gvl g.urlxgzuwzkvimu gbmvbgmugbmuzurl
bzvlaxzuaau gmragkqlgzsouagkpgrl rppuzuliu:g“Qmvb!”gavr gmu,g“fsabgbmra
.rbgkpgvgqkfvlgvoakgauznugpkzgvgbuabrfkltgbkgftgzsoua?”ggVlkbmuzgbrfu,
.urlxgauulgbkg upul gmrfauopgvxvrlabgvg kx:g“Rbgra,”gavr gmu,g“nuztgmvz 
bkbvootgbkgwsbgkppgfvl;gvl gqugfsabgul uvnkszgvl gpkziugkszauonuagbk
zuarabgvl gulikslbuzgbmrlxa,gprzabg.tguppuiba,g.sbgvbgouvabg.tgzuvaklgvl 
vzxsfulbj”

V.ksbgaunulgkzgurxmbgtuvzagarliu,gvgmsa.vl fvlgtubgornrlx,g.sbgbqk
ouvxsuagpzkfgftgmksau,gmvnrlxgoklxg.uulgbkzfulbu gqrbmgmragqrpu’a
yuvoksat,gikfrlxgklug vtgmkfugpzkfgmragqkzc,gvl gamugquoikfrlxgmrfgqrbm
muzgviisabkfu gzvrorlx,gulbuzu grlbkgakgxzuvbgpsztgbmvbgqrbmgvgaricougmu
mv gtubgrlgmragmvl ,gmugbkbvootgisbgkppgvoogbmkaugwvzbagbmvbgamugqva
yuvoksagkpgvl gbmzuqgbmufgrlgmuzgpviujggVl ,g‘bragavr gbmvbgvgtkslx
xulboufvlgkpgkszglvbrkl,g.zracgvl gvfkzksa,gmvnrlxg.tgmragwuzaunuzvliugvb
ovabgfkoorpru gbmugmuvzbgkpgvgpvrzgfrabzuaa,gulzvxu ,gbmvbgswklgbmugwkrlb
kpgpzsrbrklgmugpksl gmrfauopgslv.ougbkgwuzpkzf,gvl gbmvb,

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Luignrzrorbuz
ggggggggggRluzagaulrougwulraguhbsorbgivwsbj”

ggggg[(Bmug19bmgkzg20bmgiulbsztgbzvlaovbkzagouvnugbmragwmzvau
gggggslbzvlaovbu gvl gqrbmglkguhwovlvbrkljg jQj)
ggggg--Br.soosa,gWzrvwjggIvzfj,g84j]

vagakklgvagunuzgmugivfugmkfugmug uwzrnu gmrfauopgkpgbmugzu.uoorksa
fuf.uz,gvl gaulbgrbgbkgmragfrabzuaa,gvgizsuogvl g.okk tgnribrfgpkzgbmu
uhwrvbrklgkpgmragkppuliujggRpgbmragmv g.uulg klugswklgfvbszu
iklar uzvbrkl,gvl gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgzuorxrkl,gvagbmugwzruabagkpgIt.uou
 r ,gqmvbgamkso gqugavtgkpgakgmrxmgvlgvibrkl?

Vgpuqg vtagarliu,gvbg.uzxuzvi,gprnugouvxsuagpzkfgftgmksau,gswgbmugzrnuz
 kz kxlu,gvgqkfvlgmvnrlxgknuzlrxmbg.uulg.uvbulgvl gv.sau g.tgmuzgmsa.vl ,
vgimkouzrigroo-ikl rbrklu gpuookq,gzuakonu gbkguaivwugpzkfgmragroo-savxu
vbgbmugwzriugkpgmuzgorpu;gvl gxkrlxgakgakklgvagamugqvagswgbmugluhb
fkzlrlxgbkgnrarbgmuzglurxm.ksza,gvagamugqvagqklbgbkg k,gvl gmvnrlxgoub
akfugqkz agpvoogrlgzuikfful vbrklgkpgmuzgvppvrza,gamugbkkcgvgarabuzgkp
muzag.tgbmugmvl ,gvl gou gmuzgbkgbmug.zr xu;gqmrbmuzg.urlxgikfu,gvl 
mvnrlxgbvculgouvnugkpgmuz,grlgyuabgvagrbgquzu,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
vobuzvbrklgrlgmuzgikslbulvliu,gamugbmzuqgmuzauopgmuv oklxgpzkfgbmugbkw
rlbkgbmugzrnuz,gvl gqvagbmuzug zkqlu jggBmvbgqmrimgragbmugfkabgzufvzcv.ou
rlgbmragra,gbmvbgbmragzuakosbrklgqvagvgqmkouglrxmbgpkzfrlxgrlgmuzgmuv j

RbgragesrbugvlkbmuzgbmrlxgqrbmgbmugRl rvlgqkfulgpkzgrbg.urlxgbmugisabkf
bmuzugpkzgbmugfulgbkgmvnugfvltgqrnua,gvl gbmug.uabg.uoknu gkpgbmufgbk
croogmuzauopgvbgmuzgmsa.vl ’ag uiuvau,gunuztgklugkpgbmufgfvcuagrbgbmu
.sarluaagkpgmuzgqmkougorpugbkgk.bvrlgbmragwzrnrouxugvl gxvrlgbmra
v nvlbvxugknuzgmuzgikfwvlrkla;gvl gbmugxkk gkppriuagbmutg kgbmurz
msa.vl agvrfgvbglkgkbmuzgzuikfwulaug.sbgbkg.ugwzupuzzu grlgviikfwvltrlx
mrfgrlg uvbm:

gggggggggggggg“S.rgfkzbrpuzkgyvibvguabgpvhgsobrfvgouibk,
gggggggggggggggShkzsfgpsaragabvbgwrvgbsz.vgikfra
gggggggggggggggUbgiuzbvfulgmv.ulbgoubmr,gesvugnrnvgauesvbsz
gggggggggggggggIklysxrsf:gws kzguabglklgorisraaugfkzrj
gggggggggggggggVz ulbgnribzriua,gubgpovffvugwuibkzvgwzvu.ulb,
gggggggggggggggRfwklslbesugasragkzvgwuzsabvgnrzraj”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmulgbmutgbmzuqgbmugbkzimgklgbmugpsluzvog.u ,gbmugwrksagqrnua
gggggqrbmgmvrzg ramunuoou ,gabvl gvzksl gabzrnrlx,gqmrim,gornrlx,gamvoo
gggggviikfwvltgmuzgawksau;gvl gvzugvamvfu gbmvbgbmutgfvtglkbg ru;gbmut
gggggqmkgvzugwzupuzzu guhwkaugbmurzg.zuvabagbkgbmugpovfu,gvl gbmutgovt
gggggbmurzgaikzimu gorwagklgbmkaugkpgbmurzgmsa.vl aj”
gggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg13,g17j]

VgiuzbvrlgvsbmkzgkpgkszgbrfuagzuwkzbagbmvbgmugmvagauulgrlgbmkaugKzrulbvo
lvbrklagbmragisabkfgrlgwzvibriu,gbmvbglkbgklotgbmugqrnuag.sztgbmufauonua
qrbmgbmurzgmsa.vl a,g.sbgunulgbmugaovnuagmugmvagulyktu gvoak;gqmrimgra
 klugvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:gBmugmsa.vl g.urlxg uv ,gbmugqr kqgfvtgrpgamugqroo
(.sbgpuqgqroo)g ufvl gbqkgkzgbmzuugfklbma’gzuawrbugqmuzurlgbkgkz uzgmuz
vppvrzajggBmug vtg.urlxgikfu,gamugfkslbagklgmkzau.vic,g zuaau gvagprlugva
vbgmuzgqu  rlx,gvl gqrbmgvgimuuzpsogikslbulvliugavtagamugragxkrlxgbk
aouuwgqrbmgmuzgawksau,gmko rlxgvgokkcrlx-xovaagrlgmuzgoupbgmvl gvl gvl
vzzkqgrlgbmugkbmuzjgg.urlxgbmsagikl sibu grlgwkfw,gviikfwvlru gqrbmgmuz
crl zu gvl gpzrul agvl gvgxzuvbgiklikszaugkpgwukwougrlgxzuvbgykt,gamugra
vbgovabg.zksxmbgbkgbmugws.origwoviugvwwkrlbu gpkzgasimgawuibvioua:gbmra
ragvgxzuvbgawviu,grlgbmugfr abgkpgqmrimgragvgwrbgpsoogkpgqkk ,gvl 
v ykrlrlxgbkgrbgvgfkslbgzvrau gpkszgkzgprnugabuwa,gswklgqmrimgamugra
.zksxmbgvl gauznu gqrbmgvgfvxlrpriulbgzuwvab;gqmrimg.urlxg klu,gamugpvooa
bkg vlirlxgvl garlxrlx,gvl gxrnuagkz uz,gqmulgamugbmrlcagprb,gbkgcrl ou
bmugprzujggBmrag.urlxg klu,gamug uaiul a,gvl gbvcrlxgbmugluvzuabgkpgmuz
msa.vl ’agzuovbrklag.tgbmugmvl ,gbmutgqvocgbkgbmugzrnuzgiokaug.t,gqmuzu
amugabzrwagmuzauopgabvzcglvcu ,gvl gmvnrlxg rabzr.sbu gmuzgiokbmuagvl 
yuquoagbkgmuzgpzrul a,gwoslxuagmuzauopgrlbkgbmugqvbuz,gvagrpgbmuzugbk
iouvlaugmuzauopgpzkfgmuzgarla;gikfrlxgksbgbmuliu,gamugqzvwagmuzauopgrlgv
tuookqgorlulgkpgprnu-vl -bqulbtguooagoklx,gvl gvxvrlgxrnrlxgmuzgmvl gbk
bmragcrlafvlgkpgmuzgmsa.vl ’a,gbmutgzubszlg.vicgbkgbmugfkslb,gqmuzugamu
fvcuagvgawuuimgbkgbmugwukwou,gvl gzuikfful agmuzgimro zulgbkgbmuf,grpgamu
mvnugvltjgg.ubqrhbgbmugwrbgvl gbmugfkslbgbmuzugragikffklotgvgiszbvrl
 zvqlgbkgaizuulgbmug.szlrlxgpszlviugpzkfgbmurzgarxmb,gqmrimgakfugkpgbmuf,
bkgfvlrpuabgbmugxzuvbuzgikszvxu,gpkz.r jggMvnrlxgul u gqmvbgamugmvagbk
avt,gvgqkfvlgwzuaulbagmuzgqrbmgvgnuaauogkpgkro,gqmuzuqrbmgbkgvlkrlbgmuz
muv gvl gmuzgqmkoug.k t,gqmrimgqmulg klugqrbmgamugbmzkqagrlbkgbmugprzu,
vl grlgvlgrlabvlbgwzuirwrbvbuagmuzauopgvpbuzjggRffu rvbuot,gbmugwukwou
bmzkqgvgxkk gfvltg.rooubagvl gokxagswklgmuzgbmvbgamugfvtglkbg.ugoklxgrl
 trlx,gvl giklnuzbgvoogbmurzgyktgrlbkgakzzkqgvl gfkszlrlxjggRpgbmutgvzu
wuzaklagkpgfuvluzgikl rbrkl,gbmug.k tgkpgbmug upslibgragivzzru gbkgbmu
woviugkpgauwsobszu,gvl gbmuzugwoviu garbbrlx,gbmugqr kqgcluuorlxg.upkzu
mrf,guf.zvirlxgbmug uv g.k t;gvl gbmutgiklbrlsugrlgbmragwkabszugqmroab
bmugwukwoug.sro gvgqvoogv.ksbgbmuf,gqmrimgakgakklgvagrbgragzvrau gbkgbmu
murxmbgkpgbmugqkfvl’agamkso uza,gklugkpgmuzgzuovbrklagikfuag.umrl gmuz,
vl gbvcrlxgmko gkpgmuzgmuv ,gbqrabagmuzgluic;gakgakklgvagamugrag uv ,gbmu
qvoogragwzuaulbotgzvrau gsw,gvl giokau ,gvl gbmuzugbmutgzufvrlgulbkf.u j

Bmuzugqva,grlgbmragavfugikslbzt,gakfubmrlxgorcugbmragrlgbmurz
xtflkakwmraba;gpkzglkbg.tgiklabzvrlbgkpgkbmuzaglkzg.tgbmugrfwubskarbtgkp
vgas  ulgmsfksz,g.sbg.tgbmuguhwzuaagwzkpuaarklgkpgbmurzgkz uz,gbmurz
isabkfgqva,gvagakklgvagbmutgvzzrnu gvbgvgiuzbvrlgvxu,gkzgbmvbgbmutgavq
bmufauonuagbmzuvbulu g.tgvltg rauvau,gbkgivsaugvgpsluzvogwrougbkg.u
uzuibu gpkzgbmuf,gvl gklgbmugbkwgvgabvbuotg.u ,gqmuzu,gvpbuzgmvnrlx
yktpsootgpuvabu gbmurzgpzrul agvl gviesvrlbvliu,gbmutgovr gbmufg kqlgqrbm
akgxzuvbgzuakosbrkl,gbmvbgprzug.urlxgvwworu gbkgrb,gbmutgquzuglunuzgauul
bkgabrzgurbmuzgmvl gkzgpkkb;gvl gvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,gklugkpgbmuf,gIvovlsa
.tglvfu;guhwrzu grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgbmugqmkougvzftgkpgVouhvl uzgbmu
XzuvbjggVl gmugqvaglurbmuzgzuwsbu gmkotglkzgmvwwtgvfklxabgbmufgqmkg r 
lkbgbmsag uabzktgmrfauop,g rafraarlxgmragaksogwszxu gvl gwszrpru g.tgbmu
przu,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgiklasfu gvoogbmvbgqvaguvzbmotgvl gfkzbvojggBmra
iklabvlbgwzufu rbvbrklgkpgbmugqmkougorpugragbmvbgqmrimgfvcuagbmugqkl uzj

Vfklxabgkszgkbmuzgiklbzknuzarua,gbmvbgkpg‘Pvbsf’gmvagvoakgizuwbgrl;gvl 
bkgbrugbmrlxagbkgikfu,gvl gunulgkszgkqlgqrooa,gbkgvgiuzbvrlgvl 
rlunrbv.ougluiuaarbt,gqugvzugtubgswklgbmragvzxsfulbgkpgbrfugwvab:
“ArliugXk gpkzuauuagbmvbgvoogbmrlxagamvoogakgpvoogksb,gvag ks.bouaagMu
 kua,grbgfsabgbmulgluiuaavzrotgpkookq,gbmvbgbmutgfsabgakgpvoogksb”:gbk
qmrimgkszgfvabuzagzuwot:g“bmvbgbmugauurlxgvltbmrlxgikfugbkgwvaa,gvagqu
 k,gvl gvagXk gMrfauopgvoakg kuag(pkzgvoogbmrlxag.urlxgwzuaulbgqrbmgmrf,
Mugzvbmuzgauua,gbmvlgpkzuauua),graglkbgbkgikfwuogvlgunulb:gbmvbgra,gqu
auug.uivsaugbmrlxag kgpvoogksb,g.sbgbmrlxag kglkbgpvoogksbg.uivsaugqu
auu:gunulbagivsaugclkqou xu,g.sbgclkqou xug kuaglkbgivsaugunulbajggBmvb
qmrimgqugauugmvwwul,g kuagmvwwul;g.sbgrbgfrxmbgmvnugmvwwulu gkbmuzqrau:
vl gXk ,grlgbmugivbvokxsugkpgbmugivsauagkpgunulbagqmrimgMugmvagrlgMra
wzuairuliu,gmvagvoakgbmkaugqmrimgqugivoogviir ulbvogvl gnkoslbvzt,
 uwul rlxgswklgbmugor.uzbtjggMugmvagxrnulgkszgpzuugqroo,gvl gclkqagbmvb
qug kgvfraag.uivsaugqugqkso g kgakj”

Rgmvnugauulgvgxzuvbgfvltgikffvl uzagulikszvxugbmurzgako ruzagqrbmgbmra
pvbvogluiuaarbt;gpkzgrpgkszgbrfug.ugorfrbu gbkgvgiuzbvrlgmksz,glurbmuz
bmugulufrua’gamkbglkzgkszgkqlg.ko luaa,glkzgkszgporxmbgvl gikqvz riu,
ivlgurbmuzgamkzbulgkzgwzkoklxgkszgornuajggBmragraguvarotgavr ,g.sbgauu
qmkgqroog.ugakguvarotgwuzasv u ;gvl grpgrbg.ugakgbmvbgvgabzklxgvl gornuot
pvrbmg zvqagvoklxgqrbmgrbgvibrklagkpgbmugavfugcrl ,giuzbvrlotgbmragpvrbm
qugakgfsimg.zvxgkp,gragnuztgorxmbgrlgbmragvxugkpgksza,gslouaagbmu
iklbufwbgrbgmvagkpgqkzcagfvcuagrbg ra vrlgbmurzgikfwvltjggAkgrbgra,gbmvb
bkgbmragnuztgwszwkaugbmugArzug ugYkrlnroou,gvagizu r.ougvgqrbluaagvagvlt
kbmuzgqmvbunuz,gbuooagsagkpgbmug.u ksrla,gvglvbrklgvfklxabgbmugAvzviula,
qrbmgqmkfgbmugcrlxgAbjgOksragmv gbkg kgrlgbmugMkotgOvl ,gbmvbgbmut,grl
bmurzgzuorxrkl,gakgprzfotg.uorunu gbmuglsf.uzgkpgunuztgfvl’ag vtagbkg.u
pzkfgvoogubuzlrbtgwzuprhu gvl gaubg kqlg.tgvlgrlunrbv.oug uizuu,gbmvb
bmutgqulbglvcu gbkgbmugqvza,guhiuwbrlxgvgBszcramgaqkz ,gvl gbmurzg.k rua
klotgiknuzu gqrbmgvgqmrbugorlulgiokbm:gvl gpkzgbmugxzuvbuabgiszaugbmut
ikso grlnulbgqmulgbmutgquzugvlxzt,gbmragqvagvoqvtagrlgbmurzgfksbma:
“Viiszau g.ugbmks,gvagmugbmvbgvzfagmrfauopgpkzgpuvzgkpg uvbmj”ggBmragragv
buabrfkltgkpgpvrbmgnuztgfsimg.utkl gkszajggVl gkpgbmragakzbgragbmvbgvoak
bmvbgbqkgpzrvzagkpgPokzuliugxvnugrlgkszgpvbmuza’g vtajgg.urlxgulxvxu grl
akfugiklbzknuzatgkpgouvzlrlx,gbmutgvxzuu gbkgxkg.kbmgkpgbmufgrlbkgbmu
przugrlgbmugarxmbgkpgvoogbmugwukwou,guvimgpkzgbmugnuzrprivbrklgkpgmra
vzxsfulb,gvl gvoogbmrlxagquzugvozuv tgwzuwvzu ,gvl gbmugbmrlxgysabgswkl
bmugwkrlbgkpguhuisbrkl,gqmulgrbgqvagrlbuzzswbu g.tgvlgsluhwuibu 
viir ulbj--[7bmgVwzrog1498jggAvnklvzkovgraasu gbmugimvooulxujggVpbuzgfvlt
 uovtagpzkfg ufvl agvl gikslbuz- ufvl ag.tguvimgar ugvagbkgbmug ubvroagkp
bmugprzu,g.kbmgwvzbruagpksl gbmvbgbmutgmv grfwkzbvlbg.sarluaagbkgbzvlavib
rlgvlkbmuzgikslbt--.kbmgysabg.vzuotguaivwu gvaavaarlvbrklgvbgbmugmvl agkp
bmug ravwwkrlbu gawuibvbkzajgg jQj]

VgtkslxgBszcramgokz ,gmvnrlxgwuzpkzfu gvglkbv.ouguhwokrbgrlgmragkql
wuzaklgrlgbmugarxmbgkpg.kbmgvzfrua,gbmvbgkpgVfszvbmgvl gbmvbgkpgMslrv ua,
zuv tgbkgykrlg.vbbou,g.urlxgvacu g.tgVfszvbm,gqmvbgrlgasimgbul uzgvl 
rluhwuzruliu gtuvzag(pkzgrbgqvagmragprzabgavootgrlbkgvzfa)gmv grlawrzu 
mrfgqrbmgakg.zvnugvgikszvxu,gzuworu ,gbmvbgmragimrupgbsbkzgpkzgnvokszgqva
vgmvzujgg“Pkzg.urlx,”gavr gmu,g“klug vtgvgmslbrlx,gRgpksl gvgmvzu
arbbrlx,gvl gbmksxmgRgmv gvg.zviugkpguhiuooulbgxzutmksl agqrbmgfu,gtub
fubmksxmbgrbgqkso g.ug.uabgpkzgaszuluaagbkgfvcugsaugkpgftg.kq;gpkzgamu
avbgnuztgpvrzjggRgbmulgpuoogbkgoubbrlxgpotgftgvzzkqa,gvl gamkbgpkzbtgbmvb
Rgmv grlgftgesrnuz,glkbgklotgqrbmksbgmszbrlx,g.sbgqrbmksbgabvzbrlxgmuz
pzkfgmuzgpkzfjggVbgovabgRgaorwwu gftg kxagvpbuzgmuz,g.sbgbkglkgfkzu
wszwkaugbmvlgRgmv gamkb:g.tgqmrimgRgsl uzabkk gbmvbgamugmv g.uulgauiszu 
.tgmuzg uabrlt;gvl ,gbmvbglurbmuzg vzbaglkzgaqkz agivlgqksl gqrbmksbgbmu
wuzfraarklgkpgpvbu,gqmrimgqugivlglurbmuzgmvabulglkzg upuzj”ggBmragabkzt
fvtgauznu,g.tgbmugqvt,gbkgoubgsagauugmkqgpouhr.ougkszgzuvaklgragbkgvoo
akzbagkpgrfvxuaj

Vgwuzaklgkpgxzuvbgtuvza,glvfu,g rxlrbt,gvl gouvzlrlxg.kvabu gbkgfugbmvb
mugmv g.uulgrl siu gbkgvgiuzbvrlgnuztgrfwkzbvlbgimvlxugrlgmragpvrbmg.tgv
abzvlxugvl gqmrfarivogrlirbvbrkl,gvl gklugkbmuzqraugakgrlv uesvbu,gbmvbgR
bmksxmbgrbgfsimgabzklxuz,gbvculgbmugiklbzvztgqvt:gmugivoou grbgvgfrzviou,
vl gakgRgokkcgswklgrb,g.sbgrlgvg rppuzulbgaulaujggBmugBszcramgmrabkzrvla
avt,gbmvbgbmugwuzasvarklgbmkaugkpgbmurzglvbrklgmvnugrfwzrlbu grlgbmufgkp
bmugpvbvogvl gslvobuzv.ougwzuaizrwbrklgkpgbmurzg vta,gfvlrpuabotgikl siua
bkgbmugxrnrlxgbmufgxzuvbgvaaszvliugrlg vlxuzajggVl gRgclkqgvgxzuvbgwzrliu
qmkgfvcuagnuztgpkzbslvbugsaugkpgrb,gqmubmuzgrbg.ugbmvbgmugzuvootg.uorunua
rb,gkzgbmvbgmugfvcuagrbgmraguhisaugpkzgakgqkl uzpsootgmvdvz rlxgmrfauop:
oubgsagmkwugPkzbslugfvtglkbg.ugbkkgakklgquvztgkpgmuzgpvnkszgbkgmrfj

Bmuzugmvaglkbgmvwwulu grlgkszgfufkztgvgfkzugv frzv.ouguppuibgkp
zuakosbrklgbmvlgrlgbmkaugbqkgqmkgiklawrzu gbmug uvbmgkpgbmugWzrliugkp
Kzvlxuj

ggggg[BmugprzabgkpgbmuaugqvagYumvlg ugYvszuxst,gqmkgqksl u gbmugWzrliu
ggggg18bmgFvzimg1582;gbmugauikl ,g.tgqmkfgbmugWzrliugqvagcroou g10bmgYsot
ggggg1584j,gqvag.vobmvdvzgXuzvz j]

‘Bragfvznuooksagmkqgbmugauikl gqmkguhuisbu grb,gikso gunuzg.ugwuzasv u 
rlbkgvlgvbbufwb,gqmuzurlgmragikfwvlrkl,gqmkgmv g klugmragsbfkab,gmv gmv 
akgroogasiiuaa;gvl gvpbuzgbmugavfugfubmk ,gvl gqrbmgbmugavfugvzfa,gbkgxk
vbbvicgvgokz ,gvzfu gqrbmgakgzuiulbgvgovbugouaaklgkpg rabzsab,gwkquzpso
rlgpkookquzagvl g.k rotgabzulxbm,grlgmragkqlgmvoo,gvfr abgmragxsvz a,gvl 
rlgvgirbtgqmkootgvbgmrag unkbrkljggVaaszu ot,gmugufwoktu gvgnuztgzuakosbu
vzfgvl gvgikszvxugulpovfu gqrbmgpszrksagwvaarkljggVgwkrxlvz gragaszuzgpkz
abzrcrlxgmkfu;g.sbg.tgzuvaklgbmvbgfkzugfkbrklgvl gpkziugkpgmvl gra
zuesrzu gbmvlgqrbmgvgwrabko,gbmug.okqgragfkzugas.yuibgbkg.ugwsbg.tgkz
mrl uzu jggBmvbgbmragfvlg r glkbgzslgbkgvgiuzbvrlg uvbm,gRgfvcuglkgxzuvb
 ks.b;gpkzgbmugmkwuagvltgklugikso gpovbbuzgmrfgqrbmvo,gikso glkbgprl 
woviugrlgvltgak.uzgsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gbmugikl sibgkpgmraguhwokrb
aspprirulbotgfvlrpuabagbmvbgmugmv glkgqvlbgkpgbmvb,glkgfkzugbmvlgkp
ikszvxujggBmugfkbrnuagkpgakgwkquzpsogvgwuzasvarklgfvtg.ug rnuzau,gpkzgksz
pvlitg kuagqmvbgrbgqroo,g.kbmgqrbmgrbauopgvl gsajggBmuguhuisbrklgbmvbgqva
 klugluvzgKzouvla--[Bmugfsz uzgkpgbmug scugkpgXsraug.tgWkobzkbj]--qva
lkbmrlxgorcugbmra;gbmuzugqvagrlgbmragfkzugkpgimvliugbmvlgnrxksz;gbmu
qksl gqvaglkbgfkzbvo,grpgpkzbslugmv glkbgfv ugrbgak,gvl gbkgvbbufwbgbk
amkkbgklgmkzau.vic,gvl gvbgvgxzuvbg rabvliu,g.tgklugqmkaug.k tgqvagrl
fkbrklgpzkfgbmugfkbrklgkpgmragmkzau,gqvagbmugvbbufwbgkpgvgfvlgqmkgmv 
zvbmuzgfraagmrag.okqgbmvlgpvrogkpgavnrlxgmrfauopjggBmragqvagvwwvzulbgpzkf
qmvbgpkookqu ;gpkzgmugqvagakgvabklramu gvl gabswupru gqrbmgbmugbmksxmbgkp
akgmrxmgvlguhuisbrkl,gbmvbgmugbkbvootgokabgmragys xfulbg.kbmgbkgprl gmra
qvtgbkgporxmbgvl gbkgxknuzlgmragbklxsujggQmvbgluu u gmugbkgmvnug klugfkzu
bmvlgbkgpotg.vicgbkgmragpzrul agvizkaagbmugzrnuz?gg‘BragqmvbgRgmvnug klu
rlgouaag vlxuza,gvl gbmvbgRgbmrlcgkpgnuztgorbbougmvdvz ,gmkqg.zkv gakunuz
bmugzrnuzgfvtg.u,gwzknr u gtkszgmkzaugmvnuguvatgxkrlxgrl,gvl gbmvbgtks
auugklgbmugkbmuzgar uguvatgovl rlxgviikz rlxgbkgbmugabzuvfjggBmugkbmuz,
--[.vobmvdvzgXuzvz j]--qmulgbmutgwzklksliu gmrag zuv psogaulbuliu,
“Rgqvagwzuwvzu gpkzgbmra,”gavr gmu,g“.upkzumvl ,gvl gRgqroogfvcugtks
qkl uzgvbgftgwvbruliuj”

BmugVaavaarla,gvglvbrklg.kz uzrlxgswklgWmkulrirv,

ggggg[KzgrlgUxtwb,gAtzrv,gvl gWuzarvjgg uzrnvbrklgkpg‘vaavaarl’gragpzkf
gggggMvaavl-.ul-Av.v,gklugkpgbmurzguvzotgouv uza,gvl gbmutgmv gvl
ggggguhrabuliugpkzgakfugiulbszruajggBmutgvzugiovaau gvfklxgbmugauizub
gggggakirubruagkpgbmugFr  ougVxuajgg jQj]

vzugzuwsbu gvfklxabgbmugFkmvffu vlagvgwukwougkpgnuztgxzuvbg unkbrklgvl 
wszrbtgkpgfvlluzajggBmutgmko gbmvbgbmugluvzuabgqvtgbkgxvrlgWvzv raugragbk
croogakfugklugkpgvgiklbzvztgzuorxrkl;gqmrimgragbmugzuvaklgbmutgmvnugkpbul
.uulgauul,g.urlxg.sbgklugkzgbqk,gvl gqrbmksbgvzfksz,gbkgvbbufwbgvxvrlab
wkquzpsogulufrua,gvbgbmugwzriugkpgvgiuzbvrlg uvbmgvl gqrbmksbgvlt
iklar uzvbrklgkpgbmurzgkqlg vlxuzjggAkgqvagkszgZvtfkl ,gIkslbgkpgBzrwkor,
vaavaarlvbu g(qmrimgqkz grag uzrnu gpzkfgbmurzglvfu)grlgbmugmuvzbgkpgmra
irbt,--[rlg1151]-- szrlxgkszgulbuzwzrauagkpgbmugMkotgQvz:gvl gorcuqrau
Iklzv ,gFvzesragkpgFklbupuzzvb,gbmugfsz uzuzagvbgbmurzguhuisbrklg.uvzrlx
bmufauonuagqrbmgxzuvbgwzr ugvl gxokztgbmvbgbmutgmv gwuzpkzfu gakg.zvnugvl
uhwokrbj




IMVWBUZgHHHj

KPgVgFKLABZKSAgIMRO 

Bmragabkztgamvoogxkg.tgrbauop;gpkzgRgqroogouvnugrbgbkgwmtarirvlagbk
 raikszaugkpjggBqkg vtagvxkgRgavqgvgimro gbmvbgbqkgfulgvl gvglszau,gqmk
avr gbmutgquzugbmugpvbmuz,gbmugsliou,gvl gbmugvslbgkpgrb,givzzru gv.ksb
bkgxubgfklutg.tgamkqrlxgrb,g.tgzuvaklgrbgqvagakgabzvlxugvgizuvbszujggRb
qva,gvagbkgvoogbmugzuab,gkpgvgikffklgpkzf,gvl gikso gabvl gswklgrbagpuub;
ikso gxkgvl gxv..ougfsimgorcugkbmuzgimro zulgkpgbmugavfugvxu;grbgmv 
lunuzgvagtubgbvculgvltgkbmuzglkszramfulbg.sbgpzkfgbmuglszau’ag.zuvaba,
vl gqmvb,grlgftgwzuauliu,gbmutgbzru gbkgwsbgrlbkgbmugfksbmgkpgrb,grbgklot
imuqu gvgorbbougvl gawvbgrbgksbgvxvrlgqrbmksbgaqvookqrlx;gbmugiztgkpgrb
auufu grl uu gvgorbbougk  gvl gwvzbrisovz,gvl grbgqvagysabgpkszbuul
fklbmagko jggSl uzgbmug.zuvabgrbgqvagykrlu gbkgvlkbmuzgimro ,g.sbgqrbmksb
vgmuv ,gvl gqmrimgmv gbmugawrlugkpgbmug.vicgqrbmksbgfkbrkl,gbmugzuab
ulbrzu;gpkzgbmksxmgrbgmv gklugvzfgamkzbuzgbmvlgbmugkbmuz,grbgmv g.uul
.zkculg.tgviir ulbgvbgbmurzg.rzbm;gbmutgquzugykrlu g.zuvabgbkg.zuvab,gvl 
vagrpgvgouaauzgimro gaksxmbgbkgbmzkqgrbagvzfagv.ksbgbmugluicgkpgklu
akfubmrlxg.rxxuzjggBmugyslibszugvl gbmricluaagkpgbmugwoviugqmuzugbmut
quzugiklykrlu gqvaglkbgv.knugpkszgprlxuza,gkzgbmuzuv.ksba,gakgbmvbgrpgtks
bmzsabgswgbmugrfwuzpuibgimro gtksgfrxmbgauugbmuglvnuogkpgbmugkbmuzg.uokq
rb,gvl gbmugykrlrlxgqvag.ubqrhbgbmugwvwagvl gbmuglvnuojggBmuglvnuogkpgbmu
rfwuzpuibgimro gikso glkbg.ugauul,g.sbgvoogbmugzuabgkpgbmug.uoot,gakgbmvb
voogbmvbgqvaglkbgykrlu gkpgbmugrfwuzpuibgklu,gvagvzfa,g.sbbkica,gbmrxma,
vl gouxa,gmslxg vlxorlxgswklgbmugkbmuz,gvl gfrxmbgzuvimgbkgbmugfr -ouxj
Bmuglszau,gfkzuknuz,gbko gsagbmvbgrbgszrlu gvbg.kbmg.k rua,gvl gbmvbgbmu
fuf.uzagkpgbmugkbmuzgquzuglkszramu ,gaular.ou,gvl grlgbmugavfugworxmb
qrbmgbmvbgamugxvnugasicgbk,guhiuwbrlxgbmvbgbmutgquzugamkzbuzgvl gouaaj
Bmrag ks.oug.k tgvl gaunuzvogorf.agzuovbrlxgbkgklugmuv gfrxmbg.u
rlbuzwzubu gvgpvnkszv.ougwzkxlkabrigbkgbmugcrlx,--[MulztgRRRj]--kp
fvrlbvrlrlxgbmuaugnvzrksagwvzbagkpgkszgabvbugsl uzgbmugslrklgkpgmragovqa;
.sbgouabgbmugunulbgamkso gwzknugkbmuzqrau,g‘brag.ubbuzgbkgoubgrbgvoklu,
pkzgrlgbmrlxagvozuv tgwvabgbmuzugluu aglkg rnrlvbrkl,

gggggggggg“Sbgessfgpvibagaslb,gbsfgv giklyuibszvf
ggggggggggvoresrgrlbuzwzubvbrklugzunkiulbsz;”

ggggg[“Akgvagqmulgbmutgvzugikfugbkgwvaa,gbmutgfvtgbmulg.tgakfu
gggggrlbuzwzubvbrklg.ugzuivoou gbkgiklyuibszu”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grrjg31j]

vag‘bragavr gkpgUwrfulr ua,gbmvbgmugvoqvtagwzkwmuaru g.vicqvz j

Rgmvnugysabgauulgvgmuz afvlgrlgFu ki,gkpgv.ksbgbmrzbtgtuvzagkpgvxu,gqmk
mvaglkgarxlgkpgvltgxulrbvogwvzba;gmugmvagbmzuugmkouag.tgqmrimgmu
rliuaavlbotgnkr agmragqvbuz;gmugrag.uvz u ,gmvag uarzu,gvl gauucagiklbvib
qrbmgqkfulj

BmkaugbmvbgqugivoogfklabuzagvzuglkbgakgbkgXk ,gqmkgauuagrlgbmugrffularbt
kpgMragqkzcgbmugrlprlrbugpkzfagbmvbgMugmvagikfwzumul u gbmuzurl;gvl grb
ragbkg.ug.uorunu gbmvbgbmragprxszugqmrimgvabklramuagsagmvagzuovbrklgbk
akfugkbmuzgprxszugkpgbmugavfugcrl gslclkqlgbkgfvljggPzkfgMragvoogqra kf
lkbmrlxg.sbgxkk ,gikffkl;gvl gzuxsovzgwzkiuu a;g.sbgqug kglkbg raiuzlgbmu
 rawkarbrklgvl gzuovbrkl:

gggggggggg“Esk gizu.zkgnr ub,glklgfrzvbsz,gubrvfar,
ggggggggggiszgprvb,gluairbjggEsk gvlbuglklgnr rb,gr ,
ggggggggggargunuluzrb,gkabulbsfguaaugiulaubj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgmugkpbulgauuagmug kuaglkbgv frzu,gbmksxmgmug.ugrxlkzvlbgmkq
gggggrbgikfuagbkgwvaajggQmulgvgbmrlxgmvwwulagmuglunuzgavqg.upkzu,gmu
gggggbmrlcagbmvbgrbgragvgwkzbulbj”--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grrjgg22j]

Qmvbunuzgpvooagksbgiklbzvztgbkgisabkfgqugavtgragiklbzvztgbkglvbszu,g.sb
lkbmrlx,gqmvbunuzgrbg.u,gragiklbzvztgbkgmuzjggOub,gbmuzupkzu,gbmra
slrnuzavogvl glvbszvogzuvaklguhwuogbmuguzzkzgvl gvabklramfulbgbmvb
lknuobtg.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrbj




IMVWBUZgHHHR

KPgVLXUZ

Wosbvzimgragv frzv.ougbmzksxmksb,g.sbguawuirvootgqmuzugmugys xuagkpgmsfvl
vibrklajggQmvbgprlugbmrlxag kuagmugavtgrlgbmugikfwvzraklgkpgOtiszxsagvl 
Lsfvgswklgbmugas.yuibgkpgkszgxzuvbgpkootgrlgv.vl klrlxgimro zulgbkgbmu
ivzugvl gxknuzlfulbgkpgbmurzgpvbmuza?ggBmugfkabgkpgkszgirnrogxknuzlfulba,
vagVzrabkbougavta,g“ouvnu,gvpbuzgbmugfvlluzgkpgbmugItiokwua,gbkgunuztgklu
bmugkz uzrlxgkpgbmurzgqrnuagvl gimro zul,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgkqlgpkkoram
vl grl raizuubgpvlit;gvl gbmugOviu vufklrvlgvl gIzubvlgvzugvofkabgbmu
klotgxknuzlfulbagbmvbgmvnugikffrbbu gbmugu sivbrklgkpgimro zulgbkgbmu
ovqajggQmkg kuaglkbgauugbmvbgrlgvgabvbugvoog uwul agswklgbmurzglszbszu
vl g.zrlxrlxgsw?gvl gtubgbmutgvzugoupbgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgwvzulba,goubgbmuf
.ugvagpkkoramgvl groo-ikl rbrklu gvagbmutgfvt,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
 raizubrklj”

Vfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gmkqgkpbulgmvnugR,gvagRgmvnugwvaau gvoklxgksz
abzuuba,gmv gvgxkk gfrl gbkgxubgswgvgpvziu,gbkgzunulxugbmugwkkzg.ktagqmkf
Rgmvnugauulgmr u ,gclkicu g kql,gvl gfrauzv.otg.uvbulg.tgakfugpvbmuzgkz
fkbmuz,gqmulgrlgbmurzgpsztgvl gfv gqrbmgzvxu?ggTksgamvoogauugbmufgikfu
ksbgqrbmgprzugvl gpsztgawvzcorlxgrlgbmurzgutua:

gggggggggggggg“Zv.rugyuiszgrliul ulbu,gpuzslbsz,
gggggggggggggggWzvuirwrbua;gsbgavhvgysxragv.zswbv,gesr.sagfkla
gggggggggggggggAs.bzvmrbsz,giornkesugovbsagwul ulbugzuiu rb,”

ggggg[“Bmutgvzugmuv oklxg.kzlugqrbmg.szlrlxgpsztgvagxzuvbgabkluagbkzl
gggggpzkfgbmugfkslbvrla,g.tgqmrimgbmugabuuwgar uagvzugoupbglvcu gvl 
ggggg.vzuj”--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,gnrjg647j]

(vl gviikz rlxgbkgMrwwkizvbua,gbmugfkabg vlxuzksagfvov ruagvzugbmutgbmvb
 raprxszugbmugikslbulvliu),gqrbmgvgzkvzrlxgvl gbuzzr.ougnkriu,gnuztgkpbul
vxvrlabgbmkaugbmvbgvzug.sbgluqotgikfugpzkfglszau,gvl gbmuzugbmutgvzu
ovfu gvl gawkrou gqrbmg.okqa,gqmroabgkszgysabriugbvcuaglkgikxlravliugkp
rb,gvagrpgbmuaugfvrfagvl g raokivbrklagquzuglkbguhuisbu gswklgfuf.uzagkp
kszgikffklquvobm:

ggggggggg“Xzvbsfguab,gesk gwvbzrv;girnufgwkwsokesug u rabr,
ggggggggggArgpvira,gsbgwvbzrhgarbgr klusa,gsbroragvxzra,
ggggggggggSbroragubg.uookzsfgubgwviragzu.sagvxul raj”

ggggg[“Rbgragquoogqmulgbkgbmtgikslbztgvl gbmugwukwougbmksgmvabgxrnulgv
gggggirbrdul,gwzknr u gbmksgfvcugprbgpkzgmragikslbzt’agauznriu;gsaupsogbk
gggggbroogbmuguvzbm,gsaupsogrlgvppvrzagkpgqvzgvl gwuviu”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gAvbj,ghrnjg70j]

Bmuzugraglkgwvaarklgbmvbgakgfsimgbzvlawkzbagfulgpzkfgbmurzgzrxmbgys xfulb
vagvlxuzjggLkgklugqkso g ufszgswklgwslramrlxgvgys xugqrbmg uvbmgqmk
amkso gikl uflgvgizrfrlvogklgbmugviikslbgkpgmragkqlgimkouz;gqmt,gbmul,
amkso gpvbmuzagvl gwu vxkxsuag.ugvltgfkzugvookqu gbkgqmrwgvl gimvabrau
imro zulgrlgbmurzgvlxuz?gg‘Bragbmulglkgoklxuzgikzzuibrkl,g.sbgzunulxuj
Imvabraufulbgragrlabuv gkpgwmtarigbkgimro zul;gvl gqkso gqugul szugv
wmtarirvlgqmkgamkso g.ugvlrfvbu gvxvrlabgvl gulzvxu gvbgmragwvbrulb?

Qugkszauonua,gbkg kgquoo,gamkso glunuzgovtgvgmvl gswklgkszgauznvlba
qmroabgkszgvlxuzgovabajggQmulgbmugwsoaug.uvba,gvl gqugpuuogufkbrklgrl
kszauonua,goubgsag upuzgbmug.sarluaa;gbmrlxagqroogrl uu gvwwuvzgkbmuzqrau
bkgsagqmulgqugvzugivofgvl gikkojgg‘Bragwvaarklgbmvbgbmulgikffvl a,g‘bra
wvaarklgbmvbgawuvca,gvl glkbgqujggPvsobagauulgbmzksxmgwvaarklgvwwuvzgfsim
xzuvbuzgbkgsagbmvlgbmutgzuvootgvzu,gvag.k ruag kgqmulgauulgbmzksxmgv
frabjggMugqmkgragmslxztgsauagfuvb;g.sbgmugqmkgqroogfvcugsaugkp
imvabraufulbgamkso gmvnuglurbmuzgmslxuzglkzgbmrzabgbkgrbjggVl ,gfkzuknuz,
imvabraufulbagbmvbgvzugrlporibu gqrbmgqurxmbgvl g raizubrklgvzugfsim
.ubbuzgzuiurnu gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzg.uluprbg.tgmrfgqmkgasppuza;gkbmuzqrau,
mugqrooglkbgbmrlcgmrfauopgysabotgikl uflu g.tgvgfvlgbzvlawkzbu gqrbm
vlxuzgvl gpszt,gvl gqroogvoouxugmragfvabuz’aguhiuaarnugwvaarkl,gmra
rlpovfu gikslbulvliu,gmragslqklbu gkvbma,gmragufkbrklgvl gwzuirwrbksa
zvamluaa,gpkzgmragkqlgysabrprivbrkl:

gggggggggggggg“Kzvgbsfulbgrzv,glrxzuaislbgavlxsrlugnulvu,
gggggggggggggggOsfrlvgXkzxklukgavunrsagrxlugfrivlbj”

ggggg[“Bmurzgpviuagaquoo,gbmurzgnurlagxzkqg.ovicgqrbmgzvxu,gvl gbmurz
gggggutuagawvzcougqrbmgXkzxklrvlgprzuj”--Knr ,g ugVzbjgVfvl r,grrrjg503j]

AsubklrsagzuwkzbagbmvbgIvrsagZv.rzrsagmvnrlxg.uulgikl uflu g.tgIvuavz,
bmugbmrlxgbmvbgfkabgwzunvrou gswklgbmugwukwoug(bkgqmkfgmugmv gvwwuvou )
bkg ubuzfrlugbmugivsaugrlgmragpvnksz,gqvagbmugvlrfkarbtgvl gnumufuliu
bmvbgIvuavzgmv gfvlrpuabu grlgbmvbgaulbuliuj

Avtrlxgragvg rppuzulbgbmrlxgpzkfg krlx;gqugvzugbkgiklar uzgbmugauzfkl
vwvzbgvl gbmugwzuvimuzgvwvzbjggBmuaugfulgoulbgbmufauonuagbkgvgwzubbt
.sarluaagqmkgrlgkszgbrfuagmvnugvbbufwbu gbkgamvcugbmugbzsbmgkpgkszgImszim
.tgbmugnriuagkpgmuzgfrlrabuza;gamuguhbzvibagmuzgbuabrfkltguoauqmuzu;g‘bra
vgpkkoramgqvtgkpgvzxsrlxgvl gbmvbgqkso gbmzkqgvoogbmrlxagrlbkgiklpsarklj
Vgfvlgqmkaugfkzvoagvzugxkk gfvtgmvnugpvoaugkwrlrkla,gvl gvgqricu gfvlgfvt
wzuvimgbzsbm,gunulgbmksxmgmug.uorunugrbglkbgmrfauopjgg‘Brag ks.bouaagv
prlugmvzfkltgqmulg krlxgvl gavtrlxgxkgbkxubmuz;gvl gRgqrooglkbg ultg.sb
bmvbgavtrlx,gqmulgbmugvibrklagpkookq,graglkbgkpgxzuvbuzgvsbmkzrbtgvl 
upprivit,gvagUs vfr vagavr ,gmuvzrlxgvgwmrokakwmuzgbvocgkpgfrorbvzt
vppvrza:g“Bmuaugbmrlxagvzugprluotgavr ,g.sbgmugqmkgawuvcagbmufgraglkbgbk
.ug.uorunu gpkzgmraguvzagmvnuglunuzg.uulgsau gbkgbmugaksl gkpgbmu
bzsfwubj”ggVl gIoukfulua,gmuvzrlxgvlgkzvbkzg uiovrfrlxgswklgnvoksz,g.szab
ksbgrlbkgovsxmbuz,gvbgqmrimgbmugkbmuzg.urlxgvlxzt;g“Rgamkso ,”gavr gmugbk
mrf,g“ kgbmugavfugrpgrbgquzugvgaqvookqgbmvbgawkcugkpgbmragas.yuib;g.sbgrp
rbgquzugvlguvxougRgamkso gqroorlxotgmuvzgmrfj”ggRgwuziurnu,gfubmrlca,grl
bmugqzrbrlxagkpgbmugvlirulba,gbmvbgmugqmkgawuvcagqmvbgmugbmrlca,gabzrcua
fsimgfkzugmkfugbmvlgmugqmkgklotgpurxlajggMuvzgIriuzkgawuvcgkpgbmugoknugkp
or.uzbt:gmuvzg.zsbsagawuvcgkpgrb,gbmugfuzugqzrbbulgqkz agkpgbmragfvl
aksl gvagrpgmugqkso gwszimvaugrbgvbgbmugwzriugkpgmragorpujggOubgIriuzk,
bmugpvbmuzgkpguokesuliu,gbzuvbgkpgbmugiklbufwbgkpg uvbm;goubgAuluivg k
bmugavfu:gbmugprzabgovlxsramrlxotg zvqoagrbgksbgakgtksgwuziurnugmugqkso 
fvcugtksgzuakonugswklgvgbmrlxgklgqmrimgmugraglkbgzuakonu gmrfauop;gmu
rlawrzuagtksglkbgqrbmgikszvxu,gpkzgmugmrfauopgmvaglklu;gbmugkbmuz
vlrfvbuagvl grlpovfuagtksjggRglunuzgzuv gvlgvsbmkz,gunulgkpgbmkaugqmk
bzuvbgkpgnrzbsugvl gkpgvibrkla,gbmvbgRg kglkbgiszrksaotgrlesrzugqmvbgcrl 
kpgvgfvlgmugqvagmrfauop;gpkzgbmugUwmkzrgvbgAwvzbv,gauurlxgvg raakosbu
puookqgwzkwkaugvgqmkouakfugv nriugbkgbmugwukwou,gikffvl u gmrfgbkgmko 
mragwuviu,gvl gulbzuvbu gvgnrzbsksagfvlgbkgvbbzr.sbugbkgmrfauopgbmu
rlnulbrkl,gvl gbkgwzkwkaugrbjggWosbvzim’agqzrbrlxa,grpgquoogsl uzabkk ,
aspprirulbotg.uawuvcgbmurzgvsbmkz,gvl gakgbmvbgRgbmrlcgRgclkqgmrfgunul
rlbkgmragakso;gvl gtubgRgikso gqramgbmvbgqugmv gakfugpsoouzgviikslbgkp
mragorpujggVl gRgvfgbmsagpvzgqvl uzu gpzkfgftgas.yuib,gswklgbmugviikslb
kpgbmugk.orxvbrklgRgmvnugbkgVsosagXuoorsa,gpkzgmvnrlxgoupbgsagrlgqzrbrlx
bmragabkztgkpgmragfvlluza,gbmvbg.zrlxagfug.vicgbkgftgas.yuibgkpgvlxuzj
Vgaovnugkpgmra,gvgnrirksa,groo-ikl rbrklu gpuookq,g.sbgqmkgmv gbmu
wzuiuwbagkpgwmrokakwmtgkpbulgzrlxrlxgrlgmraguvza,gmvnrlxgpkzgakfugkppuliu
kpgmrag.uulgabzrwbg.tgWosbvzim’agikffvl ,gqmroabgmugqvag.urlxgqmrwwu ,
fsbbuzu gvbgprzab,gbmvbgrbgqvagqrbmksbgivsaugvl gbmvbgmugmv g kluglkbmrlx
bkg uauznugrb;g.sbgvbgovabgpvoorlxgrlgxkk guvzluabgbkguhiovrfgvxvrlabgvl 
zvrogvbgmragfvabuz,gmugzuwzkvimu gmrfgbmvbgmugqvaglkgwmrokakwmuz,gvagmu
mv g.kvabu gmrfauopgbkg.u:gbmvbgmugmv gkpbulgmuvz gmrfgavtgrbgqva
rl uiulbgbkg.ugvlxzt,glvt,gmv gqzrbbulgvg.kkcgbkgbmvbgwszwkau;gvl gbmvb
bmugivsarlxgmrfgbkg.ugakgizsuootg.uvbul,grlgbmugmurxmbgkpgmragzvxu,
bkbvootgxvnugbmugorugbkgvoogmragqzrbrlxa;gbkgqmrimgWosbvzimgivofotgvl 
iko otgvlaquzu ,g“Mkq,gzspprvl,”gavr gmu,g“.tgqmvbg kabgbmksgys xugbmvb
Rgvfglkqgvlxzt?gg kuagurbmuzgftgpviu,gftgikoksz,gkzgftgnkriugxrnugvlt
fvlrpuabvbrklgkpgftg.urlxgfknu ?ggRg kglkbgbmrlcgftgutuagokkcgpruziu,
bmvbgftgikslbulvliugvwwuvzagbzks.ou ,gkzgbmvbgftgnkriugrag zuv pso:gvfgR
zu ,g kgRgpkvf,g kuagvltgqkz guaivwugftgorwagRgksxmbgbkgzuwulb?gg kgR
abvzb?gg kgRgbzuf.ougqrbmgpszt?ggPkzgbmkau,gRgbuoogbmuu,gvzugbmugbzsu
arxlagkpgvlxuzj”ggVl gak,gbszlrlxgbkgbmugpuookqgbmvbgqvagqmrwwrlxgmrf,
“Wotgklgbmtgqkzc,”gavr gmu,g“qmroabgbmragxulboufvlgvl gRg rawsbuj”ggBmra
ragmragabkztj

VzimtbvagBvzulbrlsa,gzubszlrlxgpzkfgvgqvzgqmuzurlgmugmv g.uul
ivwbvrl-xuluzvo,gpksl gvoogbmrlxagrlgmragmksaugrlgnuztgxzuvbg rakz uz,
vl gmragovl agesrbugksbgkpgbroovxu,gbmzksxmgbmugroogmsa.vl ztgkpgmra
zuiurnuz,gvl gmvnrlxgivsau gmrfgbkg.ugivoou gbkgmrf;g“Xk,”gavr gmu,g“rpgR
quzuglkbgrlgvlxuzgRgqkso gaksl otg zs.gtkszgar uaj”ggWovbkgorcuqrau,
.urlxgmrxmotgkppul u gqrbmgklugkpgmragaovnua,gxvnugAwusarwwsagkz uzgbk
imvabraugmrf,guhisarlxgmrfauopgpzkfg krlxgrbg.uivsaugmugqvagrlgvlxuzj
Vl gIvzroosa,gvgOviu vufklrvl,gbkgvgMuokb,gqmkgivzzru gmrfauopgrlakoulbot
bkqvz agmrf:g“.tgbmugxk a,”gavr gmu,g“rpgRgqvaglkbgvlxzt,gRgqkso 
rffu rvbuotgivsaugbmuugbkg.ugwsbgbkg uvbmj”

‘Bragvgwvaarklgbmvbgragwouvau gqrbmgvl gpovbbuzagrbauopjggMkqgkpbul,
.urlxgfknu gsl uzgvgpvoaugivsau,grpgbmugwuzaklgkppul rlxgfvcuagvgxkk 
 upuliugvl gwzuaulbagsagqrbmgvgysabguhisau,gvzugqugvlxztgvxvrlabgbzsbm
vl grllkiuliugrbauop?ggRlgwzkkpgkpgqmrim,gRgzufuf.uzgvgfvznuooksaguhvfwou
kpgvlbresrbtj

Wrak,gkbmuzqraugvgfvlgkpgnuztgufrlulbgnrzbsu,g.urlxgfknu gvxvrlabgv
ako ruzgkpgmra,gpkzgbmvbgzubszlrlxgvoklugpzkfgpkzvxugmugikso gxrnugmrfglk
viikslbgqmuzugmugmv goupbgvgikfwvlrklgkpgmra,gbkkcgrbgpkzgxzvlbu gbmvbgmu
mv gcroou gmrf,gvl gwzuaulbotgikl uflu gmrfgbkg uvbmjggMugqvaglkgakkluz
fkslbu gswklgbmugxr..ub,g.sb,g.umko ,gmragqvl uzrlxgikfwvlrklgvzzrnua,gvb
qmrimgvoogbmugvzftgquzuguhiuu rlxotgxov ,gvl gvpbuzgfvltguf.zviuagkpgbmu
bqkgikfzv ua,gbmugmvlxfvlgivzzru g.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgrlbkgWrak’a
wzuauliu,gvoogbmkaugwzuaulbg.uorunrlxgrbgqkso g.ugvgxzuvbgwouvaszugunul
bkgmrfauop;g.sbgrbgwzknu gesrbugiklbzvzt;gpkzgbmzksxmgamvfugvl gawrbu,
mragpszt,gqmrimgqvaglkbgtubgikko,gzu ks.ou ;gvl g.tgvgas.boubtgqmrimgmra
wvaarklgas  ulotgasxxuabu gbkgmrf,gmugfv ugbmzuugizrfrlvoagpkzgmvnrlx
pksl gklugrllkiulb,gvl givsau gbmufgvoogbkg.ug uawvbimu :gbmugprzab
ako ruz,g.uivsaugaulbuliugmv gwvaau gswklgmrf;gbmugauikl ,gqmkgmv gokab
mragqvt,g.uivsaugmugqvagbmugivsaugkpgmragikfwvlrkl’ag uvbm;gvl gbmu
mvlxfvl,gpkzglkbgmvnrlxgk.utu gbmugkz uzgqmrimgmv g.uulgxrnulgmrfj
Asimgvagmvnugmv gbkg kgqrbmgbuabtgvl gk.abrlvbugqkful,gfvtgmvnu
uhwuzrfulbu grlbkgqmvbgvgzvxugrbgwsbagbmufgbkgkwwkaugarouliugvl giko luaa
bkgbmurzgpszt,gvl gbmvbgvgfvlg ra vrlagbkglkszramgbmurzgvlxuzjggBmu
kzvbkzgIuorsagqvagqkl uzpsootgimkouzrig.tglvbszu;gvl gbkgklugqmkgaswwu 
rlgmragikfwvlt,gvgfvlgkpgvgxulbougvl gaquubgiklnuzavbrkl,gvl gqmk,gbmvb
mugfrxmbglkbgfknugmrf,gvwwzknu gvl giklaulbu gbkgvoogmugavr ;gmu,
rfwvbrulbgbmvbgmragroo-msfkszgamkso gbmsagawul grbauopgqrbmksbgvorfulb:
“Pkzgbmugoknugkpgbmugxk ag ultgfugakfubmrlx,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgqugfvtg.u
bqkj”ggQkful,grlgorcugfvlluz,gvzugklotgvlxztgbmvbgkbmuzagfvtg.ugvlxzt
vxvrl,grlgrfrbvbrklgkpgbmugovqagkpgoknujggWmkirkl,gbkgklugqmkgrlbuzzswbu 
mragawuvcrlxg.tgrlyszrksagvl gnuztgkwwzk.zrksagqkz a,gfv uglkgkbmuz
zubszlgbmvlgarouliu,gvl gbkgxrnugmrfgpsoogor.uzbtgvl gouraszugbkgnulbgmra
awouul;gqmrimgmugmvnrlxgviikz rlxotg klu,gvl gbmugabkzfg.okqlgknuz,
qrbmksbgvltgfulbrklgkpgbmrag rabsz.vliu,gmugwzkiuu u grlgmrag raikszau
qmuzugmugmv goupbgkppg.upkzujggLkgvlaquzgivlglubbougvgfvlgorcugasimgv
iklbufwbj

KpgbmugfkabgimkouzrigfvlgrlgPzvliug(vlxuzgragvoqvtagvlgrfwuzpuibrkl,g.sb
fkzuguhisav.ougrl,gvgako ruz,gpkzgrlgbmvbgbzv ugrbgivllkbgakfubrfuag.u
vnkr u )gRgkpbulgavt,gbmvbgmugragbmugfkabgwvbrulbgfvlgbmvbgRgclkq,gvl 
bmugfkabg raizuubgrlg.zr orlxgmragwvaarkla;gqmrimgzraugrlgmrfgqrbmgak
xzuvbgnrkouliugvl gpszt,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Fvxlkgnuosbrgisfgpovffvgaklkzu
ggggggggggNrzxuvgasxxuzrbszgikabragsl vlbragvmuf,
ggggggggggUhasobvlbesugvvbsgovbriua,gpszrbgrlbsagvesvugnraj
ggggggggggPsfr sagvbesugvobugawsfraguhs.uzvbgvflra,
ggggggggggLuigyvfgaugivwrbgsl v;gnkovbgnvwkzgvbuzgv gvszva;”

ggggg[“Qmulgqrbmgoks gizvicorlxglkrau,gvgprzugkpgabricagragvwworu gbkgbmu
ggggg.krorlxgivo zkl’agar u,g.tgbmugmuvbgrlgpzractg.uooagbmugoreskz
ggggg vliua;gqrbmrlgbmugqvbuzgzvxua,gvl gmrxmgbmugafkctgposr grlgpkvf
gggggknuzpokqajggLkzgivlgbmugqvnuglkqgiklbvrlgrbauop;gbmug.ovicgabuvf
gggggporuagvoogv.zkv j”--VUlur ,gnrrjg462j]


bmvbgmugfsabgkpgluiuaarbtgizsuootgiklabzvrlgmrfauopgbkgfk uzvbugrbjggVl 
pkzgftgwvzb,gRgclkqglkgwvaarklgqmrimgRgikso gqrbmgakgfsimgnrkouliugbk
ftauopgvbbufwbgbkgiknuzgvl gikliuvo;gRgqkso glkbgaubgqra kfgvbgakgmrxmgv
wzriu;gvl g kglkbgakgfsimgiklar uzgqmvbgvgfvlg kua,gvagmkqgfsimgrbgikaba
mrfgbkg kglkgqkzauj

Vlkbmuzg.kvabu gmrfauopgbkgfugkpgbmugzuxsovzrbtgvl gxulbouluaagkpgmra
fvlluza,gqmrimgvzugbkgbzsbmgnuztgarlxsovz;gbkgqmkfgRgzuworu ,gbmvbgrbgqva
rl uu gakfubmrlx,guawuirvootgfgwuzaklagkpgakgufrlulbgvgesvorbtgva
mrfauop,gswklgqmkfgunuztgklugmv gbmurzgutua,gbkgwzuaulbgmrfauopgvoqvta
quoo-bufwuzu gbkgbmugqkzo ;g.sbgbmvbgbmugwzrlirwvogbmrlxgqvagbkgfvcu
wzknrarklgpkzgqrbmrlgvl gpkzgmrfauop;gvl gbmvbgrbgqvaglkbgrlgftgkwrlrkl
nuztgquoogbkgkz uzgmrag.sarluaagksbqvz otgquoo,gvl gbkgxzvbugmrfauop
qrbmrl,gqmrimgRgqvagvpzvr gmug r ,grlgwsbbrlxgklgvl gfvrlbvrlrlxgbmra
fvacgvl guhbuzlvogvwwuvzvliuj

Vgfvlgrlikzwkzvbuagvlxuzg.tgikliuvorlxgrb,gvag rkxuluagbko g ufkabmulua,
qmk,gpkzgpuvzgkpg.urlxgauulgrlgvgbvnuzl,gqrbm zuqgmrfauopgbmugfkzu
zubrzu otgrlbkgrb:g“Bmugfkzugtksgzubrzug.vicqvz ,gbmugpvzbmuzgtksgulbuz
rlj”ggRgqkso gzvbmuzgv nraugbmvbgvgfvlgamkso gxrnugmragauznvlbgvg.khgkp
bmuguvzgvgorbbougslauvaklv.ot,gbmvlgzvicgmragpvlitgbkgwzuaulbgbmragxzvnu
vl gikfwkau gikslbulvliu;gvl gmv gzvbmuzg raiknuzgftgwvaarklagbmvlg.zkk 
knuzgbmufgvbgftgkqlguhwulau;gbmutgxzkqgouaagrlnulbrlxgvl gfvlrpuabrlx
bmufauonua;gvl g‘bragfsimg.ubbuzgbmurzgwkrlbgamkso gqksl gkbmuzagqrbmksb,
bmvlg.ugbszlu gbkqvz agkszauonuagqrbmrl:

ggggg“Kflrvgnrbrvgrlgvwuzbkgounrkzvgaslb:gubgbsligwuzlrirkaraarfv,
gggggessfgarfsovbvgavlrbvbugas.ar ulbj”

ggggg[“Voognriuagvzugouaag vlxuzksagqmulgkwulgbkg.ugauul,gvl gbmulgfkab
gggggwuzlrirksagqmulgbmutgoszcgsl uzgvg raauf.ou gxkk glvbszuj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwjg56]

Rgv fklramgvoogbmkaugqmkgmvnugvsbmkzrbtgbkg.ugvlxztgrlgftgpvfrot,grlgbmu
przabgwoviugbkgfvlvxugbmurzgvlxuzgvl glkbgbkgovnramgrbgswklgunuzt
kiivarkl,gpkzgbmvbg.kbmgouaaulagbmugnvosugvl gmrl uzagbmuguppuib:gzvam
vl grliuaavlbgaiko rlxgzslagrlbkgisabkf,gvl gzul uzagrbauopg uawrau ;gvl 
qmvbgtksgovtgksbgswklgvgauznvlbgpkzgvgbmupbgraglkbgpuob,g.uivsaugrbgra
bmugavfugmugmvagauulgtksgvgmsl zu gbrfuagufwoktgvxvrlabgmrfgpkzgmvnrlx
roogqvamu gvgxovaa,gkzgaubgvgabkkogksbgkpgwoviujggAuikl ot,gbmvbgbmutg.u
lkbgvlxztgbkglkgwszwkau,g.sbgfvcugaszugbmvbgbmurzgzuwzumularklgzuvimgmrf
qrbmgqmkfgbmutgvzugkppul u ;gpkz,gkz rlvzrot,gbmutgzvrogvl g.vqog.upkzu
mugikfuagrlbkgbmurzgwzuauliu,gvl giklbrlsugaiko rlxgvlgvxugvpbuzgmugra
xklu:

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgauisfgwubsovlagvfulbrvgiuzbvb:”

gggggggggg[“Vl gwubsovlbgfv luaagiklbul agqrbmgrbauopj”
ggggggggggg--Iovs rvlgrlgUsbzkwj,grjg237j]

bmutgvbbvicgmragamv kq,gvl g zrnugbmugabkzfgrlgvgwoviugqmuzuglkgklugra
urbmuzgimvabrau gkzgikliuzlu ,g.sbgrlgbmugiovfkszgkpgbmurzgnkriuj
Rgorcuqraugrlgesvzzuoagikl uflgbmkaugqmkgmsppgvl gnvwkszgqrbmksbgvl
uluft:gbmkaugzmk kfklbv uagamkso g.ugzuauznu gbkg raimvzxugswklgbmu
kppul rlxgwvzbt:

ggggggggg“Fsxrbsagnuosbrgisfgwzrfvgrlgwzvuorvgbvszsa
ggggggggggBuzzrprikagirub,gvbesugrzvairgrlgikzlsvgbulbvb,
ggggggggggVz.kzragk.lrhsagbzslik,gnulbkawsugoviuaarb
ggggggggggRibr.sa,gubgawvzavgv gwsxlsfgwzkos rbgvzulvj”

ggggg[“Vagqmulgvg.soogbkgsamuzgrlgbmugprxmb,gfvcuag zuv psog.uookqrlxa,
gggggvl gqmubagmragmkzlagvxvrlabgbmugbzslcgkpgvgbzuu;gqrbmg.okqagmug.uvba
gggggbmugvrz,gvl gzumuvzauagbmugprxmbg.tgaivbbuzrlxgbmugavl j”
gggggg--VUlur ,ghrrjg103j]

QmulgRgvfgvlxzt,gftgvlxuzgragnuztgamvzwg.sbgqrbmvognuztgamkzb,gvl gva
wzrnvbugvagRgivl;gRgokaugftauopgrl uu grlgwzkfwbluaagvl gnrkouliu,g.sb
lkbgrlgbzks.ou;gakgbmvbgRgbmzkqgksbgvoogakzbagkpgrlyszrksagqkz agvb
zvl kf,gvl gqrbmksbgimkriu,gvl glunuzgiklar uzgwuzbrlulbotgbkg vzbgft
ovlxsvxugqmuzugRgbmrlcgrbgqroog uuwuabgqksl ,gpkzgRgikffklotgfvcugsaugkp
lkgkbmuzgquvwklgbmvlgftgbklxsuj

Ftgauznvlbagmvnugvg.ubbuzg.vzxvrlgkpgfugrlgxzuvbgkiivarklagbmvlgrl
orbbou;gbmugorbbougkluagaszwzraugfu;gvl gbmugfrapkzbslugra,gbmvbgqmulgtks
vzugkliugswklgbmugwzuirwriu,g‘braglkgfvbbuzgqmkgxvnugtksgbmugwsam,gtks
voqvtagxkgbkgbmug.kbbkf;gbmugpvoogszxua,gfknua,gvl gfvcuagmvabugkp
rbauopjggRlgxzuvbgkiivarklagbmragavbrapruagfu,gbmvbgbmutgvzugakgysab
unuztgkluguhwuibagvgzuvaklv.ougrl rxlvbrkl,gvl gbmulgRgxokzrptgftauopgrl
 uiurnrlxgbmurzguhwuibvbrkl;gvxvrlabgbmuau,gRgpkzbrptgvl gwzuwvzugftauop;
bmutg rabsz.gftgmuv ,gvl gbmzuvbulgbkgbzvlawkzbgfugnuztgpvz,gamkso gR
pkookqgbmufjggRgivlguvarotgiklbvrlgftauopgpzkfgulbuzrlxgrlbkgklugkpgbmuau
wvaarkla,gvl gvfgabzklxgulksxm,gqmulgRguhwuibgbmuf,gbkgzuwuogbmurz
nrkouliu,g.ugbmugivsauglunuzgakgxzuvb;g.sbgrpgvgwvaarklgkliugwzuwkaauaa
vl gaurdugfu,grbgivzzruagfugvqvt,g.ugbmugivsauglunuzgakgafvoojggRg.vzxvrl
bmsagqrbmgbmkaugqmkgfvtgiklbul gqrbmgfugqmulgtksgauugfugfknu gprzab,goub
fugvoklu,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx;gR’oog kgbmugavfugpkzgtksjggBmugabkzfgragklot
.uxkbg.tgvgikliszzuliugkpgvlxuza,gqmrimguvarotgawzrlxgpzkfgklugvlkbmuz,
vl gvzuglkbg.kzlgbkxubmuzjggOubgunuztgklugmvnugmragkqlgqvt,gvl gqugamvoo
.ugvoqvtagvbgwuviujggVgwzkprbv.ougv nriu,g.sbgmvz gbkguhuisbujggAkfubrfua
voakgrbgpvooagksbgbmvbgRgwsbgklgvgauufrlxgvlxuz,gpkzgbmug.ubbuzgxknuzlrlx
kpgftgmksau,gqrbmksbgvltgzuvogufkbrkljggVagvxugzul uzagftgmsfkszagfkzu
amvzw,gRgabs tgbkgkwwkaugbmuf,gvl gqroo,grpgRgivl,gkz uzgrbgak,gbmvbgpkz
bmugpsbszugRgfvtg.ugakgfsimgbmugouaagwuunramgvl gmvz gbkgwouvau,gvagR
mvnugfkzuguhisaugvl grliorlvbrklgbkg.ugak,gvobmksxmgRgmvnugmuzubkpkzu
.uulgzuicklu gvfklxabgbmkaugqmkgmvnugbmugxzuvbuabgwvbruliuj

Vgqkz gfkzugbkgiklios ugbmragvzxsfulbjggVzrabkbougavta,gbmvbgvlxuz
akfubrfuagauznuagpkzgvzfagbkgnrzbsugvl gnvokszjggBmvbgragwzk.v.ou;
lunuzbmuouaa,gbmutgqmkgiklbzv ribgmrfggwouvavlbotgvlaquz,gbmvbg‘bragv
quvwklgkpglknuogsau,gpkzgqugfknugvoogkbmuzgvzfa,gbmragfknuagsa;gkszgmvl 
xsr uagrbglkb,g‘bragrbgbmvbgxsr uagkszgmvl ;grbgmko agsa,gqugmko glkbgrbj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgfvlgfvtgvoqvtagabs t,g.sbgmugfsabglkbgvoqvtagxkgbkgaimkko
gggggViiszau g.ugbmks,gvagmugbmvbgvzfagmrfauopgpkzgpuvzgkpg uvbm
gggggVoogbmrlxagmvnugbmurzgauvakla,gunulgxkk gklua
gggggVoogbmkaugqmkgmvnugvsbmkzrbtgbkg.ugvlxztgrlgftgpvfrot
ggggg“Vlgufwuzkz,”gavr gmu,g“fsabg rugabvl rlx”
ggggggVlirulbgZkfvlagcuwbgbmurzgtksbmgvoqvtagabvl rlxgvbgaimkko
gggggVl gqugasppuzgbmugrooagkpgvgoklxgwuviu
ggggg.uglkbgvlxztgbkglkgwszwkau
ggggg.uabgnrzbsugRgmvnugmvagrlgrbgakfugbrlibszugkpgnriu
ggggg.tgzuaulbrlxgbmugorugqugviesrbgkszauonuagkpgbmugpvsob
ggggg“.tgbmugxk a,”gavr gmu,g“rpgRgqvaglkbgvlxzt,gRgqkso guhuisbugtks”
ggggggImro zulgvzugvfsau gqrbmgbktagvl gfulgqrbmgqkz a
gggggIklaulb,gvl gikfwoviulitgrlgxrnrlxgvgfvl’agauopgswgbkgfuovlimkot
ggggg upul gfkabgbmug upuibagqrbmgqmrimgqugvzugfkabgbvrlbu 
gggggUfwuzkzgYsorvl,gaszlvfu gbmugVwkabvbu
gggggPkzbslugakfubrfuagauufagbkg uorxmbgrlgbvcrlxgsagvbgkszgqkz 
gggggXzuvbuabgbvocuza,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,g kglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkau
gggggMvnugfkzugqmuzuqrbmgbkg upzvtgftgykszlut,gbmvlgRgmvnugqvtgbkgxk
gggggMuvzrlxgvgwmrokakwmuzgbvocgkpgfrorbvztgvppvrza
gggggMkqgfsimgrbgikabagmrfgbkg kglkgqkzau
gggggRgluu glkbgauucgvgpkkogpzkfgvpvz;gRgivlgovsxmgvbgftauop
gggggR ouluaa,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgikzzswbrkl
gggggRpgvgwvaarklgkliugwzuwkaauaagvl gaurdugfu,grbgivzzruagfugvqvt
gggggRlgakzzkqgbmuzugragakfugfrhbszugkpgwouvaszu
gggggCroorlxgragxkk gbkgpzsabzvbugvlgkppuliugbkgikfu,glkbgbkgzunulxu
gggggOvqagivllkbgas.arabgqrbmksbgfrhbszugkpgrlysabriu
gggggOuvabgul gkpgvgmvrzgqroogauznugbkg zvqgbmufgrlbkgftg raikszau
gggggOubgsaglkbgauucgkszg rauvaugksbgkpgkszauonua;g‘bragrlgsa
gggggOkkcgklg uvbmglkbgklotgqrbmksbgvabklramfulbg.sbgqrbmksbgivzu
gggggFuovlimkot:gVzugbmuzuglkbgakfugiklabrbsbrklagbmvbgpuu gswklgrb?
gggggFkabgizsuogwukwou,gvl gswklgpzrnkoksagkiivarkla,gvwbgbkgiztj
gggggLkg.uvabgrlgbmugqkzo gakgfsimgbkg.ugpuvzu g.tgfvlgvagfvl
gggggKszguhbzufuabgwouvaszugmvagakfugakzbgkpgxzkvlrlx
gggggKszgpvlitg kuagqmvbgrbgqroo,g.kbmgqrbmgrbauopgvl gsa
gggggKqugkszauonuagimrupotgvl gfkabotgbkgkszauonua
gggggWubsovlbgfv luaagiklbul agqrbmgrbauop
gggggZvxugrbgwsbagbmufgbkgkwwkaugarouliugvl giko luaagbkgbmurzgpszt
gggggZvamgvl grliuaavlbgaiko rlxgzslagrlbkgisabkf
gggggZunulxu,gqmrimgvpbuzqvz agwzk siuagvgauzruagkpgluqgizsuobrua
gggggAuugmkqgpouhr.ougkszgzuvaklgra
gggggAuufrlxgvlxuz,gpkzgbmug.ubbuzgxknuzlrlxgkpgftgmksau
gggggAmvcugbmugbzsbmgkpgkszgImszimg.tgbmugnriuagkpgmuzgfrlrabuza
gggggBvcugftgovabgouvnugkpgunuztgwoviugRg uwvzbgpzkf
gggggBmugxk agauoogsagvoogbmugxkk agbmutgxrnugsa
gggggBmugabkzfgragklotg.uxkbg.tgvgikliszzuliugkpgvlxuza
gggggBmksxmglk.k tgamkso gzuv gfu,gmvnugRgqvabu gbrfu
gggggBragavr gkpgUwrfulr ua,gbmvbgmugvoqvtagwzkwmuaru g.vicqvz 
gggggBragbmulglkgoklxuzgikzzuibrkl,g.sbgzunulxu
gggggSwklgbmugwzuirwriu,g‘braglkgfvbbuzgqmkgxvnugtksgbmugwsam
ggggg“Qmulgqroogbmragfvlg.ugqrau,”gavr gmu,g“rpgmugragtubgouvzlrlx?”
ggggggQmulgtksgauugfugfknu gprzab,goubgfugvoklu,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx
gggggTkslxgvzugbkgfvcugbmurzgwzuwvzvbrkla,gbmugko gbkgulyktgbmuf







UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg13j

HHHRRjgggg upuliugkpgAuluivgvl gWosbvzimj
HHHRRRjgggBmugabkztgkpgAwszrlvj
HHHRNjggggFuvlagbkgivzztgklgvgqvzgviikz rlxgbkgYsorsagIvuavzj
HHHNjgggggKpgbmzuugxkk gqkfulj
HHHNRjggggKpgbmugfkabguhiuooulbgfulj
HHHNRRjgggKpgbmugzuauf.ovliugkpgimro zulgbkgbmurzgpvbmuzaj



IMVWBUZgHHHRR


 UPULIUgKPgAULUIVgVL gWOSBVZIM

BmugpvfrorvzrbtgRgmvnugqrbmgbmuaugbqkgvsbmkza,gvl gbmugvaarabvliugbmut
mvnugoulbgbkgftgvxugvl gbkgftg.kkc,gqmkootgikfwrou gkpgqmvbgRgmvnu
.kzzkqu gpzkfgbmuf,gk.orxugfugbkgabvl gswgpkzgbmurzgmklkszj

VagbkgAuluiv,gvfklxabgvgfroorklgkpgorbbougwvfwmoubagbmvbgbmkaugkpgbmu
ak-ivoou gzupkzfu gzuorxrklg rawuzaugv.zkv gpkzgbmug upuliugkpgbmurzgivsau
(vl gqmrimgakfubrfuagwzkiuu gpzkfgakgxkk gvgmvl ,gbmvbg‘bragwrbtgmragwul
raglkbgufwoktu grlgvg.ubbuzgas.yuib),gRgmvnugpkzfuzotgauulgklu,gbmvbgbk
fvcugswgbmugwvzvoouogmugqkso gpvrlgprl gksbg.ubqrhbgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgksz
ovbugwkkzgCrlxgImvzouagRHjgvl gbmvbgkpgLuzk,gikfwvzuagbmugovbugIvz rlvo
kpgOkzzvrlugqrbmgAuluiv;gbmurzgpkzbslua,grlgmvnrlxg.kbmgkpgbmufg.uulgbmu
wzrfugfrlrabuzagrlgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgbmurzgwzrliua,gvl grlgbmurzgfvlluza,
ikl rbrkla,gvl g uwkzbfulbagbkgmvnug.uulgnuztgluvzgvorcujggQmuzurl,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gmug kuagbmugavr givz rlvogvgnuztgxzuvbgmklksz;gpkzgbmksxmgRgvf
klugkpgbmkaugqmkgmvnugvgnuztgmrxmguabuufgpkzgmragqrb,guokesuliu,gvl gduvo
bkgzuorxrklgvl gbmugauznriugkpgmragcrlx,gvl gmragxkk gpkzbslugbkgmvnu
ornu grlgvlgvxugqmuzurlgrbgqvagakglknuo,gakgzvzu,gvl gvoakgakgluiuaavzt
pkzgbmugws.origxkk gbkgmvnugvlguiiouarvabrivogwuzaklgkpgasimgmrxmg.rzbm
vl g rxlrbt,gvl gakgaspprirulbgvl givwv.ougkpgmragwoviu;gtub,gbkgiklpuaa
bmugbzsbm,gRg kglkbgbmrlcgmragivwvirbtg.tgfvltg uxzuuagluvzgbkgbmugkbmuz,
lkzgmragnrzbsugurbmuzgakgiouvl,gulbrzu,gkzgabuv tgvagbmvbgkpgAuluivj

Lkqgbmug.kkcgqmuzukpgRgawuvc,gbkg.zrlxgv.ksbgrbag uarxl,gxrnuagvgnuzt
rlyszrksag uaizrwbrklgkpgAuluiv,gmvnrlxg.kzzkqu grbagvwwzkvimuagpzkfg rkl
bmugmrabkzrvl,gqmkaugbuabrfkltgRg kglkbgvbgvoog.uorunugpkzg.uar uagbmvb
mugragrliklarabulb,gbmvbgvpbuzgmvnrlxgivoou gAuluivgklugqmrougnuztgqrau,
vl gvxvrlgvgfkzbvoguluftgbkgLuzk’agnriua,gfvcuagmrfguoauqmuzugvnvzrirksa,
vlgsaszuz,gvf.rbrksa,guppufrlvbu,gnkoswbsksa,gvl gvgpvoaugwzubul uzgbk
wmrokakwmt,gmragnrzbsugvwwuvzagakgnrnr gvl gnrxkzksagrlgmragqzrbrlxa,gvl 
mragnrl rivbrklgragakgiouvzgpzkfgvltgkpgbmuaugrfwsbvbrkla,gvagkpgmra
zrimuagvl guhbzvkz rlvzrotguhwularnugqvtgkpgornrlx,gbmvbgRgivllkbg.uorunu
vltgbuabrfkltgbkgbmugiklbzvztjggVl g.uar ua,grbgragfsimgfkzugzuvaklv.ou
bkg.uorunugbmugZkfvlgmrabkzrvlagrlgasimgbmrlxagbmvlgXzuucagvl 
pkzurxluzajggLkqgBvirbsagvl gbmugzuabgawuvcgnuztgmklkszv.otg.kbmgkpgmra
orpugvl g uvbm;gvl gzuwzuaulbgmrfgbkgsagvgnuztguhiuooulbgvl gnrzbsksa
wuzaklgrlgvoogbmrlxa;gvl gRgqroogvoouxuglkgkbmuzgzuwzkvimgvxvrlabg rkl’a
zuwkzbg.sbgbmra,gqmrimgRgivllkbgvnkr ,glvfuot,gbmvbgmugmvagakgquvcgv
ys xfulbgrlgbmugZkfvlgvppvrza,gbmvbgmug vzuagbkgfvrlbvrlgYsorsagIvuavz’a
ivsaugvxvrlabgWkfwutg[Vl gakg kuagbmragu rbkzjgg jQj],gvl gbmvbgkpgVlbklt
vxvrlabgIriuzkj

OubgsaglkqgikfugbkgWosbvzim:gYuvlg.k rlgragvgxkk gvsbmkzgkpgkszgbrfua,
vl gvgqzrbuzgkpgfsimgxzuvbuzgys xfulbgbmvlgbmugzksbgkpgaizr..ouzagkpgmra
vxu,gvl gqmkg uauznuagbkg.ugzuv gvl giklar uzu jggRgprl gmrf,gbmksxm,gv
orbboug.ko grlgbmragwvaavxugkpgmragFubmk gkpgmrabkzt,gqmuzugmugviisaua
Wosbvzimglkbgklotgkpgrxlkzvliug(qmuzurlgRgqkso gmvnugoubgmrfgvoklu:gpkz
bmvbgrag.utkl gftgizrbriraf),g.sbgbmvbgmug“kpbulgqzrbuagbmrlxa
rlizu r.ou,gvl gv.akosbuotgpv.soksag“:gbmuaugvzugmragkqlgqkz ajggRpgmu
mv garfwotgavr ,gbmvbgmugmv g uornuzu gbmrlxagkbmuzqraugbmvlgbmutgzuvoot
vzu,grbgmv g.uulglkgxzuvbgzuwzkvim;gpkzgqmvbgqugmvnuglkbgauul,gqugvzu
pkziu gbkgzuiurnugpzkfgkbmuzgmvl a,gvl gbvcugswklgbzsab,gvl gRgauugbmvb
mugwszwkauotgakfubrfuagnvzrksaotgzuovbuagbmugavfugabkzt;gvagbmugys xfulb
kpgbmugbmzuug.uabgivwbvrlagbmvbgunuzgquzu,gxrnulg.tgMvllr.vo;g‘bragklu
qvtgrlgbmugOrpugkpgPovffrsa,gvl gvlkbmuzgrlgbmvbgkpgWtzzmsajgg.sbgbk
imvzxugmrfgqrbmgmvnrlxgbvculgrlizu r.ougvl grfwkaar.ougbmrlxagpkzgiszzulb
wvt,gragbkgviisaugbmugfkabgys rirksagvsbmkzgrlgbmugqkzo gkpgqvlbgkp
ys xfulbjggVl gbmragragmraguhvfwou;g“va,”gavtagmu,g“qmulgmugzuovbuagbmvb
vgOviu vufklrvlg.ktgasppuzu gmrag.kquoagbkg.ugbkzlgksbg.tgvgpkh-is.gmu
mv gabkoul,gvl gcuwbgrbgabroogikliuvou gsl uzgmragikvbgbroogmugpuoog kql
 uv ,gzvbmuzgbmvlgmugqkso g raiknuzgmragbmupbj”ggRgprl ,grlgbmugprzab
woviu,gbmraguhvfwougroogimkaul,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragnuztgmvz gbkgorfrbgbmu
wkquzgkpgbmugpvisobruagkp--bmugakso,gqmuzuvagqugmvnug.ubbuzgvsbmkzrbtgbk
orfrbgvl gclkqgbmugpkziugkpgbmug.k rotgorf.a;gvl gbmuzupkzu,grpgRgmv 
.uulgmu,gRgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnugimkaulgvlguhvfwougkpgbmragauikl gakzb;gvl 
bmuzugvzugakfugkpgbmuaugouaagizu r.ou:gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,gbmvbgqmrimgmu
zupvbuagkpgWtzzmsa,gbmvbg“voogqksl u gvagmugqva,gmugabzsicgklugkpgmra
ulufrua,gqmkgqvagvzfu gpzkfgmuv gbkgpkkb,gakgxzuvbgvg.okqgqrbmgmragaqkz ,
bmvbgmugiovnugmrfg kqlgpzkfgmragizkqlgbkgmragauvb,gakgbmvbgbmug.k tgqva
 rnr u grlbkgbqkgwvzbaj”ggRlgbmraguhvfwougRgprl glkgxzuvbgfrzviou,glkzg k
Rgv frbgbmuguhisaugqrbmgqmrimgmug upul agWosbvzim,grlgmvnrlxgv  u gbmuau
qkz a,g“vag‘bragavr ,”gbkgasawul gkszg.uorup;gpkzgslouaagrbg.ugrlgbmrlxa
zuiurnu g.tgvsbmkzrbt,gvl gbmugzunuzuliugbkgvlbresrbtgkzgzuorxrkl,gmu
qkso glunuzgmvnugmrfauopgv frbbu ,gkzgulykrlu gsagbkg.uorunugbmrlxa
rlizu r.ougrlgbmufauonua;gvl gbmvbgbmuaugqkz a,g“vag‘bragavr ,”gvzuglkb
wsbgrlgbmragwoviugbkgbmvbguppuib,graguvatgbkg.ugauul,g.uivsaugmu
uoauqmuzugzuovbuagbkgsa,gswklgbmragas.yuib,gkpgbmugwvbruliugkpgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlgimro zul,guhvfwouagmvwwulrlxgrlgmragbrfu,gfkzugslorcuotgbk
wzunvrogswklgkszgpvrbm;gvagqmvbgIriuzkgmvagvoakgbuabrpru g.upkzugmrf,gva
mvnrlx,gvagmugavta,g.uulgswklgbmugawkb:gbmvbgunulgbkgbmurzgbrfuagbmuzu
quzugimro zulgpksl gqmk,grlgbmugbzrvogkpgwvbruliugbmutgquzugwsbgbkg.upkzu
bmugvobvzgkpg rvlv,gasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ugbmuzugqmrwwu gbroogbmu
.okk gzvlg kqlgvoogknuzgbmurzg.k rua,glkbgklotgqrbmksbgiztrlxgksb,g.sb
qrbmksbgakgfsimgvagvgxzkvl,gvl gakfugbroogbmutgbmuzugnkoslbvzrotgokab
bmurzgornua:gvl gbmvbgqmrimgWosbvzimgvoak,gvfklxabgvgmsl zu gkbmuz
qrbluaaua,gzuovbua,gbmvbgvbgvgavizrpriu,gvg.szlrlxgikvogmvnrlxgpvooul
rlbkgbmugaouunugkpgvgOviu vufklrvlg.kt,gvagmugqvagiularlx,gmugasppuzu 
mragqmkougvzfgbkg.ug.szlu ,gbroogbmugafuoogkpgbmug.zkrorlxgpouamgqva
wuziurnu g.tgbmkaugwzuaulbjggBmuzugqvaglkbmrlx,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
isabkf,gqmuzurlgbmurzgzuwsbvbrklgqvagfkzugikliuzlu ,glkzgpkzgqmrimgbmut
quzugbkgsl uzxkgfkzug.ovfugvl g raxzviu,gbmvlgrlg.urlxgbvculgrlgbmupbj
Rgvfgakgpsootgavbrapru gkpgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgbmkaugwukwou,gbmvbgbmragabkzt
 kuaglkbgklotglkbgvwwuvzgbkgfu,gvagbkg.k rl,grlizu r.ou;g.sbgRg kglkb
prl grbgakgfsimgvagzvzugvl gabzvlxujggBmugAwvzbvlgmrabkztgragpsoogkpgv
bmksavl gfkzugizsuogvl gzvzuguhvfwoua;gvl gra;grl uu ,gvoogfrzviougrl
bmragzuawuibj

Fvziuoorlsa,gikliuzlrlxgbmupb,gzuwkzbagbmvbgrlgmragbrfugbmuzugqvaglkgakzb
kpgbkzfulbagqmrimgikso gikfwuogbmugUxtwbrvla,gqmulgbvculgrlgbmragvib,
bmksxmgvgwukwougnuztgfsimgv  ribu gbkgrb,gakgfsimgvagbkgbuoogbmurzglvfuj

VgAwvlramgwuvavlb,g.urlxgwsbgbkgbmugzvicgvagbkgbmugviikfworiuagkpgbmu
fsz uzgkpgbmugWzvubkzgOsirsagWrak,gizru gksbgrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgbmu
bkzfulb,g“bmvbgmragpzrul agamkso glkbgouvnugmrf,g.sbgokkcgklgrlgvoo
vaaszvliu,gvl gbmvbglkgwvrlgmv gbmugwkquzgbkgpkziugpzkfgmrfgklugqkz gkp
iklpuaarkl,”gqmrimgqvagvoogbmutgikso gxubgbmugprzabg vtjggBmugluhbg vt,
vagbmutgquzugouv rlxgmrfgvgauikl gbrfugbkgvlkbmuzgbzrvo,gabzklxot
 raulxvxrlxgmrfauopgpzkfgbmugmvl agkpgmragxsvz a,gmugpszrksaotgzvlgmra
muv gvxvrlabgvgqvoo,gvl g.uvbgksbgmrag.zvrlaj

Uwrimvzra,gmvnrlxgbrzu gvl gxosbbu gbmugizsuobtgkpgLuzk’agavbuoorbua,gvl 
sl uzxklugbmurzgprzu,gbmurzg.uvbrlx,gbmurzgzvica,gvgqmkoug vtgbkxubmuz,
qrbmksbgklugatoov.ougkpgiklpuaarklgkpgmuzgiklawrzvit;g.urlxgbmugluhbg vt
.zksxmbgvxvrlgbkgbmugzvic,gqrbmgmuzgorf.agvofkabgbkzlgbkgwruiua,giklnutu 
bmugoviugkpgmuzgzk.ugqrbmgvgzsllrlxglkkaugknuzgklugkpgbmugvzfagkpgmuz
imvrz,gvl gas  ulotgaorwwrlxgmuzgmuv grlbkgrb,gqrbmgbmugqurxmbgkpgmuzgkql
.k tgmvlxu gmuzauopjggMvnrlxgbmugikszvxugbkg rugrlgbmvbgfvlluz,gragrbglkb
bkg.ugwzuasfu gbmvbgamugwszwkauotgoulbgmuzgorpugbkgbmugbzrvogkpgmuz
pkzbrbs ugbmug vtg.upkzu,gbkgfkicgbmugbtzvlb,gvl gulikszvxugkbmuzagbkgbmu
orcugvbbufwb?

Vl gqmkunuzgqroogrlesrzugkpgkszgbzkkwuzagbmuguhwuzruliuagbmutgmvnugmv grl
kszgirnrogqvza,gqroogprl guppuibagkpgwvbruliugvl gk.abrlvbugzuakosbrklgrl
bmragfrauzv.ougvxugkpgksza,gvl gvfklxabgbmragzv..ougunulgfkzuguppufrlvbu
bmvlgbmugUxtwbrvla,gqkzbmtgbkg.ugikfwvzu gqrbmgbmkaugqugmvnugysabgzuovbu 
kpgbmugAwvzbvlgnrzbsuj

Rgclkqgbmuzugmvnug.uulgarfwougwuvavlbagvfklxabgsagqmkgmvnugul szu gbmu
akouagkpgbmurzgpuubgbkg.ug.zkrou gswklgvgxzr rzkl,gbmurzgprlxuz-ul agbk
.ugizsamu gqrbmgbmugikicgkpgvgwrabko,gvl gbmurzg.okk tgutuagaesuudu gksb
kpgbmurzgmuv ag.tgpkziugkpgvgikz gbqrabu gv.ksbgbmurzg.zkqa,g.upkzugbmut
qkso gakgfsimgvagiklaulbgbkgvgzvlakfjggRgmvnugauulgklugoupbgabvzcglvcu 
pkzg uv grlgvg rbim,gmragluicg.ovicgvl gaqkooul,gqrbmgvgmvobuzgtubgv.ksb
rbgqrbmgqmrimgbmutgmv g zvxxu gmrfgvooglrxmbgvbgvgmkzau’agbvro,gmrag.k t
qksl u grlgvgmsl zu gwoviua,gqrbmgabv.agkpg vxxuzagbmvbgmv g.uulgxrnul
mrf,glkbgbkgcroogmrf,g.sbgbkgwsbgmrfgbkgwvrlgvl gbkgvppzrxmbgmrf,gqmkgmv 
ul szu gvoogbmra,gvl gunulgbkg.urlxgawuuimouaagvl grlaular.ou,gzuakonu ,
vagmugmrfauopgbko gfu,gzvbmuzgbkg rugvgbmksavl g uvbmag(vagrl uu ,gvagbk
fvbbuzgkpgasppuzrlx,gmugmv g.kzlugklu)g.upkzugmugqkso gwzkfraugvltbmrlx;
vl gtubgmugqvagklugkpgbmugzrimuabgmsa.vl fulgkpgvoogbmugikslbztjggMkq
fvltgmvnug.uulgauulgwvbrulbotgbkgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ug.szlbgvl 
zkvabu gpkzgkwrlrklagbvculgswklgbzsabgpzkfgkbmuza,gvl g.tgbmufglkbgvbgvoo
sl uzabkk ?ggRgmvnugclkqlgvgmsl zu gvl gvgmsl zu gqkfulg(pkzgXvaikltgmva
vgiuzbvrlgwzuzkxvbrnugpkzgk.abrlvit)gqmkfgtksgfrxmbgakkluzgmvnugfv uguvb
przugbmvlgpkzavcugvlgkwrlrklgbmutgmv gikliurnu grlgvlxuzjggBmutgvzugvoo
bmugfkzuguhvawuzvbu g.tg.okqagvl giklabzvrlbjggVl gmugbmvbgfv ugbmugabkzt
kpgbmugqkfvlgqmk,grlg uprvliugkpgvoogikzzuibrkl,gbmzuvba,gvl 
.vabrlv kua,giuvau glkbgbkgivoogmuzgmsa.vl goksatgclvnu,gvl gqmkg.urlx
woslxu gknuzgmuv gvl guvzagrlgqvbuz,gtubgorpbu gmuzgmvl agv.knugmuzgmuv 
vl gfv ugvgarxlgkpgizvicrlxgoriu,gpurxlu gvgbvougkpgqmrim,grlgbzsbm,gqu
unuztg vtgauugvgfvlrpuabgrfvxugrlgbmugk.abrlvitgkpgqkfuljggVl gk.abrlvit
ragbmugarabuzgkpgiklabvlit,gvbgouvabgrlgnrxkszgvl gabv.rorbtj

Qugvzuglkbgbkgys xugqmvbgragwkaar.ougvl gqmvbgraglkb,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvb
ragizu r.ougvl grlizu r.ougbkgkszgvwwzumularkl,gvagRgmvnugavr guoauqmuzu
vl grbgragvgxzuvbgpvsob,gvl gtubgklugbmvbgfkabgfulgvzugxsrobtgkp,gqmrim,
lunuzbmuouaa,gRg kglkbgfulbrklgqrbmgvltgzupouibrklgswklg.k rl,gbkgfvcugv
 rpprisobtgkpg.uorunrlxgbmvbgrlgvlkbmuzgqmrimgbmutgikso glkbgkzgqkso glkb
 kgbmufauonuajggUnuztgklugbmrlcagbmvbgbmugaknuzurxlgabvfwgkpgmsfvlglvbszu
ragrfwzrlbu grlgmrf,gvl gbmvbgpzkfgrbgvoogkbmuzagfsabgbvcugbmurzgzsou;
vl gbmvbgvoogwzkiuu rlxagqmrimgvzuglkbgorcugmragvzugpurxlu gvl gpvoauj
Ragvltbmrlxgkpgvlkbmuz’agvibrklagkzgpvisobruagwzkwkau gbkgmrf?gbmugprzab
bmrlxgmugivooagbkgbmugiklasobvbrklgkpgmragys xfulbgragmragkqlguhvfwou;
vl gvagfvbbuzagxkgqrbmgmrf,gakgbmutgfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg kgqrbmgvoogbmu
qkzo g.uar uag vlxuzksagvl grlbkouzv.ougpkoot!ggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgiklar uz
akfugfulgvagrlprlrbuotg.utkl gfu,guawuirvootgvfklxabgbmugvlirulba,gvl 
tub,gbmksxmgRgiouvzotg raiuzlgftgrlv.rorbtgbkgikfugluvzgbmufg.tgv
bmksavl gwviua,gRg kglkbgpkz.uvzgbkgcuuwgbmufgrlgarxmb,gvl gbkgys xugkp
qmvbgakguounvbuagbmuf,gkpgqmrimgRgwuziurnugakfugauu agrlgftauop,gvagR
voakg kgkpgbmuguhbzufugfuvlluaagkpgakfugkbmuzgfrl a,gqmrimgRglurbmuzgvf
vabklramu gvbglkzgtubgfra.uorunujggRggnuztgquoogwuziurnugbmugbszlagbmkau
xzuvbgaksoagbvcugbkgzvrauggbmufauonuagbkgasimgvgwrbim,gvl gv frzugbmurz
xzvl usz;gvl gbmkaugporxmbagbmvbgRgbmrlcgbmug.zvnuabgRgikso g.ugxov gbk
rfrbvbu;gqmuzu,gbmksxmgRgqvlbgqrlx,gtubgftgys xfulbgzuv rotgxkuagvoklx
qrbmgbmufjggBmugkbmuzguhvfwougmugrlbzk siuagkpg“bmrlxagrlizu r.ougvl 
qmkootgpv.soksa,”g uornuzu g.tgWosbvzim,gra,gbmvbg“Vxuarovsagqvagprlu g.t
bmugUwmkzrgpkzgmvnrlxgqmkootgulxzkaau gbmugmuvzbagvl gvppuibrklagkpgmra
irbrdulagbkgmrfauopgvokluj”ggVl gmuzurlgRg kglkbgauugqmvbgarxlgkpgpvoarbt
ragbkg.ugpksl :giouvzotgWosbvzimgawuvcagkpgbmrlxagbmvbgfsabgluu ag.u
.ubbuzgclkqlgbkgmrfgbmvlgbkgsa;gvl grbgqvaglkgluqgbmrlxgrlgXzuuiugbkgauu
fulgwslramu gvl guhrou gpkzgbmragnuztgbmrlx,gpkzg.urlxgbkkgviiuwbv.ougbk
bmugwukwou;gqrbluaagbmugKabzvirafgvl gWubvorafj--[KabzvirafgvbgVbmula
qvag.vlramfulbgpkzgbulgtuvza;gwubvorafgvbgAtzvisaugqvag.vlramfulbgpkz
prnugtuvzaj]

Bmuzugragtubgrlgbmragwoviugvlkbmuzgviisavbrklgovr gvxvrlabgWosbvzimgqmrim
Rgivllkbgquoog rxuab,gqmuzug.k rlgavtagbmvbgmugmvagarliuzuotgwvzvoouou 
ZkfvlagqrbmgZkfvla,gvl gXzuucagvfklxabgbmufauonua,g.sbglkbgZkfvlagqrbm
Xzuuca;gqrbluaa,gavtagmu,g ufkabmuluagvl gIriuzk,gIvbkgvl gVzrabr ua,
Atoovgvl gOtavl uz,gFvziuoosagvl gWuokwr va,gWkfwutgvl gVxuarovsa,
mko rlxgbmvbgmugmvagpvnkszu gbmugXzuucagrlgxrnrlxgbmufgakgsluesvo
ikfwvlrklajggBmragragzuvootgbkgvbbvicgqmvbgrlgWosbvzimgragfkabguhiuooulb
vl gfkabgbkg.ugikfful u ;gpkzgrlgmragwvzvoouoag(qmrimgragbmugfkab
v frzv.ougwvzbgkpgvoogmragqkzca,gvl gqrbmgqmrim,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gmugra
mrfauopgbmugfkabgwouvau )gbmugpr uorbtgvl garliuzrbtgkpgmragys xfulba
uesvogbmurzg uwbmgvl gqurxmb;gmugragvgwmrokakwmuzgqmkgbuvimuagsagnrzbsuj
Oubgsagauugqmubmuzgqugivllkbg upul gmrfgpzkfgbmragzuwzkvimgkpgpvoarbtgvl 
wzunvzrivbrkljggVoogbmvbgRgivlgrfvxrlugikso gxrnugkiivarklgbkgbmra
iulaszugragbmugxzuvbgvl gamrlrlxgosabzugkpgbmugZkfvlglvfuagqmrimgqugmvnu
rlgkszgfrl a;grbg kuaglkbgauufgorcuotgbkgsagbmvbg ufkabmuluagikso gzrnvo
bmugxokztgkpgvgiklaso,gwzkiklaso,gvl gwzkibkzgkpgbmvbgxzuvbgZuws.ori;g.sb
rpgvgfvlgiklar uzgbmugbzsbmgkpgbmugbmrlx,gvl gbmugfulgrlgbmufauonua,
qmrimgragWosbvzim’agimrupuabgvrf,gvl gqroogzvbmuzg.vovliugbmurzgfvlluza,
bmurzglvbszua,gvl gwvzba,gbmvlgbmurzgpkzbslua,gRgbmrlc,giklbzvztgbk
.k rl,gbmvbgIriuzkgvl gbmuguo uzgIvbkgikfugpvzgamkzbgkpgbmugfulgqrbmgqmkf
bmutgvzugikfwvzu jggRgamkso gakkluz,gpkzgmragwszwkau,gmvnugimkaulgbmu
uhvfwougkpgbmugtkslxuzgIvbkgikfwvzu gqrbmgWmkirkl,gpkzgrlgbmragikswou
bmuzugqkso gmvnug.uulgvgfkzugorcuotg rawvzrbt,gbkgbmugZkfvl’agv nvlbvxuj
VagbkgFvziuoosa,gAtoov,gvl gWkfwut,gRgnuztgquoog raiuzlgbmvbgbmurz
uhwokrbagkpgqvzgvzugxzuvbuzgvl gfkzugpsoogkpgwkfwgvl gxokztgbmvlgbmkaugkp
bmugXzuuca,gqmkfgWosbvzimgikfwvzuagqrbmgbmuf;g.sbgbmug.zvnuabgvl gfkab
nrzbsksagvibrklagvltgfkzugrlgqvzgbmvlguoauqmuzu,gvzuglkbgvoqvtagbmugfkab
zulkqlu jggRgkpbulgauugbmuglvfuagkpgivwbvrlagk.aiszu g.tgbmugawoul kszgkp
kbmuzglvfuagkpgouaag uauzb;gqrbluaagOv.rulsa,gNulbr rsa,gBuouarlsa,gvl 
aunuzvogkbmuzajggVl gbkgbvcugrbg.tgbmvb,gquzugRgbkgikfwovrlgklgbmug.umvop
kpgbmugXzuuca,gikso gRglkbgavt,gbmvbgIvfroosagqvagfsimgouaagikfwvzv.ougbk
Bmufrabkioua,gbmugXzviimrgbkgVxragvl gIoukfulua,gvl gLsfvgbkgOtiszxsa?
.sbg‘bragpkootgbkgys xu,gvbgklugnruq,gkpgbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugakgfvlt
vawuibajggQmulgWosbvzimgikfwvzuagbmuf,gmug kuaglkb,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gfvcu
bmufguesvo;gqmkgikso gfkzugouvzlu otgvl garliuzuotgmvnugfvzcu gbmurz
 rabrlibrkla?gg kuagmugwvzvoouogbmugnribkzrua,gpuvbagkpgvzfa,gbmugpkziu
kpgbmugvzfruagikl sibu g.tgWkfwut,gvl gmragbzrsfwma,gqrbmgbmkaugkp
Vxuarovsa?gg“Rg kglkbg.uorunu,”gavtagmu,g“bmvbgHulkwmklgmrfauop,grpgmu
quzuglkqgornrlx,gbmksxmgmugquzugvookqu gbkgqzrbugqmvbunuzgwouvau gmrfgbk
bmugv nvlbvxugkpgVxuarovsa,gqkso g vzugbkg.zrlxgbmufgrlbkgikfwvzraklj”
g kuagmugawuvcgkpgwvzvoouorlxgOtavl uzgbkgAtoovjgg“Bmuzugra,”gavtagmu,
“lkgikfwvzrakl,gurbmuzgrlgbmuglsf.uzgkpgnribkzruagkzgrlgbmugmvdvz gkp
.vbboua,gpkzgOtavl uzgklotgxvrlu gbqkglvnvog.vbbouaj”ggBmragraglkbgbk
 uzkxvbugpzkfgbmugZkfvla;gpkzgmvnrlxgklotgarfwotglvfu gbmufgqrbmgbmu
Xzuuca,gmugivlgmvnug klugbmufglkgrlyszt,gqmvbg rawvzrbtgakunuzgbmuzugfvt
.ug.ubqrhbgbmufgvl gWosbvzimg kuaglkbgulbrzuotgkwwkaugbmufgbkgklu
vlkbmuz;gbmuzugraglkgwzupuzuliugrlgxuluzvo;gmugklotgikfwvzuagbmugwruiua
vl girzisfabvliuagklugvpbuzgvlkbmuz,gvl gxrnuagkpgunuztgklugvgwvzbrisovz
vl gauwvzvbugys xfulbjggQmuzupkzu,grpgvltgklugikso giklnribgmrfgkp
wvzbrvorbt,gmugksxmbgbkgwricgksbgakfugklugkpgbmkaugwvzbrisovzgys xfulba,
kzgavt,grlgxuluzvo,gbmvbgmugqvagfrabvculgrlgikfwvzrlxgasimgvgXzuucgbk
asimgvgZkfvl,gqmulgbmuzugquzugkbmuzagfkzugprbgvl g.ubbuzgzuauf.orlxgbk
wvzvoouogmrfgbkj




IMVWBUZgHHHRRR

BMUgABKZTgKPgAWSZRLV

Wmrokakwmtgbmrlcagamugmvaglkbgroogufwoktu gmuzgbvoulbgqmulgamugmvagxrnul
bmugaknuzurxlbtgkpgbmugaksogvl gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgzuabzvrlrlxgksz
vwwubrbuagbkgzuvakljggVfklxabgqmrim,gbmutgqmkgys xugbmvbgbmuzugraglklu
fkzugnrkoulbgbmvlgbmkaugqmrimgawzrlxgpzkfgoknu,gmvnugbmragkwrlrklgvoak,
bmvbgbmutgaurdug.kbmg.k tgvl gakso,gvl gwkaauaagbmugqmkougfvl,gakgbmvb
unulgmuvobmgrbauopg uwul agswklgbmuf,gvl gfu rirlugragakfubrfua
iklabzvrlu gbkgwrfwgpkzgbmuf;g.sbgklugfrxmb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gvoakgavt,
bmvbgbmugfrhbszugkpgbmug.k tg.zrlxagvlgv.vbufulbgvl gquvculrlx;gpkzgasim
 uarzuagvzugas.yuibgbkgavbrubt,gvl givwv.ougkpgfvbuzrvogzufu ruaj

Fvlt,g.urlxg ubuzfrlu gbkgzr gbmurzgaksogpzkfgbmugiklbrlsvogvovzfagkp
bmragvwwubrbu,gmvnugfv ugsaugkpgrlirarklgvl gvfwsbvbrklgkpgbmugzu.uoorlx
fuf.uza;gkbmuzagmvnugas. su gbmurzgpkziugvl gvz kszg.tgbmugpzuesulb
vwworivbrklgkpgiko gbmrlxa,gvagalkqgvl gnrluxvzjggBmugaviciokbmagkpgksz
vliuabkzagquzugpkzgbmragwszwkau,gqmrimgragiokbmgqknulgkpgmkzaugmvrz,gkp
qmrimgakfugkpgbmufgfv ugamrzba,gvl gkbmuzagxrz oua,gbkgbkzbszugvl 
ikzzuibgbmurzgzurlajggVgwzrliu,glkbgoklxgvxk,gbko gfugbmvbgrlgmragtksbm
swklgvgakouflgpuabrnvogrlgbmugikszbgkpgCrlxgPzvliragRj,gqmuzugunuzt.k t
qvagprluotg zuaau ,gmugqkso gluu agwsbgklgmragpvbmuz’agmvrzgamrzb,gqmrim
qvagabroogcuwbgrlgbmugmksau;g.sbgmkqgxzuvbgakunuzgmrag unkbrklgqva,gmu
mv glkbgwvbruliugbkgquvzgrbgbrooglrxmb,gvl gqvagaricgvgoklxgbrfugvpbuz;
v  rlxgqrbmvo,gbmvbgmug r glkbgbmrlcgbmuzugikso g.ugvltgtksbmpsogmuvbgak
pruziugbmvbgbmugsaugkpgbmragzuirwugqkso glkbgfkzbrpt,gvl gtubgwuzmvwagmu
lunuzguaavtu gbmugfkabgnrkoulb;gpkzguhwuzruliugamkqagsa,gbmvbgasim
ufkbrklagvzugkpbulgauulgsl uzgzs ugvl gaoknulotgiokbmua,gvl gbmvbgvgmvrz
amrzbg kuaglkbgvoqvtagzul uzgbmkaugimvabugqmkgquvzgrbj

Hulkizvbuagwzkiuu u gqrbmgxzuvbuzgzrxkszgrlgbmragvppvrz;gpkzgmra
 rairwoua,gbkgfvcugbzrvogkpgmragiklbrlulit,gmvnrlxgaorwbgOvra,gbmvb
.uvsbrpsogvl gpvfksagikszbuavl,grlbkgmrag.u ,gesrbuglvcu ,guhiuwbrlxgbmu
vzfagkpgmuzg.uvsbtgvl gmuzgqvlbklgvooszufulba,gmuzgwmrobuza,gprl rlx
bmvb,grlg uawrbugkpgmragzuvaklgvl gwmrokakwmrivogzsoua,gmragslzsotgpouam
.uxvlgbkgfsbrlt,gmugivsau gbmkaugfuf.uzagkpgmragbkg.ug.szlu gbmvbgmu
pksl giklaulbrlxgbkgbmragzu.uoorkljggQmuzuvagbmugwvaarklagqmrimgqmkoot
zuar ugrlgbmugakso,gvagvf.rbrkl,gvnvzriu,gvl gbmugzuab,gprl gbmugzuvakl
fsimgfkzugbkg k,g.uivsaugrbgivllkbgbmuzug.ugmuowu g.sbg.tgrbagkqlgfuvla;
lurbmuzgvzugbmkaugvwwubrbuagivwv.ougkpgavbrubt,g.sbgxzkqgamvzwuzgvl 
rlizuvaug.tgpzsrbrklj

BmugakouguhvfwougkpgYsorsagIvuavzgfvtgasppriugbkg ufklabzvbugbkgsagbmu
 rawvzrbtgkpgbmuaugvwwubrbua;gpkzglunuzgqvagfvlgfkzugv  ribu gbkgvfkzksa
 uorxmbagbmvlgmu:gkpgqmrimgklugbuabrfkltgragbmugwuisorvzgivzugmugmv gkp
mragwuzakl,gbkgasimgvg uxzuu,gvagbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmugfkabgovairnrksagfuvla
bkgbmvbgul gbmulgrlgsau,gvagbkgmvnugvoogbmugmvrzagkpgmrag.k tgbqrbimu 
kpp,gvl gbkgqrwugvoogknuzgqrbmgwuzpsfuagqrbmgbmuguhbzufuabglriubtj
Vl gmugqvagvg.uvsbrpsogwuzaklgrlgmrfauop,gkpgvgpvrzgikfwouhrkl,gbvoo,
vl gawzrxmbot,gpsoogpviu ,gqrbmgesricgmvduogutua,grpgqugfvtg.uorunu
Asubklrsa;gpkzgbmugabvbsuagkpgmrfgbmvbgqugauugvbgZkfug kglkbgrlgvoo
wkrlbagvlaquzgbmrag uaizrwbrkljgg.uar uagmragqrnua,gqmkfgmugpkszgbrfua
imvlxu ,gqrbmksbgzuicklrlxgbmugvfkszagkpgmrag.ktmkk gqrbmgLrikfu ua,gcrlx
kpg.rbmtlrv,gmugmv gbmugfvr ulmuv gkpgbmugzulkqlu gIoukwvbzv,gesuulgkp
Uxtwb;gqrbluaagbmugorbbougIvuavzrkgqmkfgmugmv g.tgmuzjggMugvoakgfv ugoknu
bkjggUslku,gesuulgkpgFvszrbvlrv,gvl gvbgZkfu,gbkgWkabmsfrv,gbmugqrpugkp
AuznrsagAsowrbrsa;gbkgOkoorv,gbmugqrpugkpgXv.rlrsagbkgBuzbsoov,gbmugqrpu
kpgIzvaasa,gvl gunulgbkgFsbrv,gqrpugbkgbmugxzuvbgWkfwut:gqmrimgqvagbmu
zuvakl,gbmugZkfvlgmrabkzrvlagavt,gbmvbgamugqvagzuws rvbu g.tgmuzgmsa.vl ,
qmrimgWosbvzimgiklpuaauagbkg.ugfkzugbmvlgmugcluq;gvl gbmugIszrka,g.kbm
pvbmuzgvl gakl,gvpbuzqvz agzuwzkvimu gWkfwut,gqmulgmugfvzzru gIvuavz’a
 vsxmbuz,gbmvbgmugmv gfv ugmrfauopgakl-rl-ovqgbkgvgfvlgqmkgmv gfv ugmrf
isicko ,gvl gklugqmkfgmugmrfauopgqvagqklbgbkgivoogVUxrabmsajgg.uar uagvoo
bmuau,gmugulbuzbvrlu gAuznrorv,gIvbk’agarabuzgvl gfkbmuzgbkgFvzisa
.zsbsa,gqmuliu,gunuztgklug.uorunua,gwzkiuu u gbmugxzuvbgvppuibrklgmugmv 
bkg.zsbsa,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgmugqvag.kzlgvbgvgbrfugqmulgrbgqvagorcuotgmu
frxmbg.ugmragakljggAkgbmvbgRgmvnugzuvakl,gfubmrlca,gbkgbvcugmrfgpkzgvgfvl
uhbzufuotgxrnulgbkgbmrag u.vsim,gvl gkpgnuztgvfkzksagiklabrbsbrkljgg.sb
bmugkbmuzgwvaarklgkpgvf.rbrkl,gqrbmgqmrimgmugqvagrlprlrbuotgafrbbul,
vzrarlxgrlgmrfgbkgiklbul gqrbmgbmugpkzfuz,grbgqvag.kklgikfwuoou gbkgxrnu
qvtj

Vl gmuzugivoorlxgbkgfrl gFkmvffu ,gqmkgqklgIklabvlbrlkwou,gvl gprlvoot
uhbuzfrlvbu gbmugXzuirvlglvfu,gRg kglkbgclkqgqmuzugbmuaugbqkgquzugak
unulotg.vovliu ;guesvootgvlgrl upvbrxv.ougouimuzgvl gako ruz:g.sbgqmuzu
bmutg.kbmgfuubgrlgmragorpugvl gykabougklugvlkbmuz,gbmugesvzzuoorlx
wvaarklgvoqvtagxubagbmug.ubbuzgkpgbmugvfkzksagklu,gvl gbmragbmksxmgrbgqva
ksbgkpgrbaglvbszvogauvaklglunuzgzuxvrlu gvlgv.akosbugaknuzurxlbtgknuzgbmu
kbmuzgbroogmugmv gvzzrnu gvbgvlguhbzufugko gvxugvl gslv.ougbkgsl uzxkgbmu
pvbrxsuagkpgqvzj

Qmvbgragzuovbu gpkzgvgiklbzvztguhvfwougkpgOv raovsa,gcrlxgkpgLvwoua,gra
nuztgzufvzcv.ou;gbmvbg.urlxgvgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gnvorvlbgvl gvf.rbrksa,gmu
wzkwkau gbkgmrfauopgpkzgbmugwzrlirwvogul gkpgmragvf.rbrkl,gbmuguhuisbrkl
kpgmragwouvaszugvl gbmugulyktfulbgkpgakfugzvzugvl guhiuooulbg.uvsbtjggMra
 uvbmgauvou gswgvoogbmugzuab:gpkzgmvnrlxg.tgvgiokaugvl gbu rksagaruxu
zu siu gbmugirbtgkpgPokzuliugbkgakgxzuvbg rabzuaagbmvbgbmugrlmv.rbvlba
quzugikfwuoou gbkgivwrbsovbugv.ksbgaszzul uz,gmugqvagiklbulbgbkgoubgbmuf
voklu,gwzknr u gbmutgqkso g uornuzgswgbkgmrfgvg.uvsbrpsogfvr gmugmv 
muvz gkpgrlgbmurzgirbt;gbmutgquzugpkziu gbkgtruo gbkgrb,gvl g.tgvgwzrnvbu
rlysztgbkgvnuzbgbmugws.origzsrljggAmugqvagbmug vsxmbuzgkpgvgpvfksa
wmtarirvlgkpgmragbrfu,gqmk,gprl rlxgmrfauopgrlnkonu grlgakgpksogv
luiuaarbt,gzuakonu gswklgvgmrxmgvbbufwbjggVagunuztgklugqvagoul rlxgvgmvl 
bkgbzricgswgmrag vsxmbuzgvl gbkgv kzlgmuzgqrbmgkzlvfulbagvl gyuquoagbk
zul uzgmuzgfkzugvxzuuv.ougbkgbmragluqgoknuz,gmugvoakgxvnugmuzgv
mvl cuzimrupgfkabgzrimotgqzksxmb,gvl gkpgvlguhesrarbugwuzpsfu,gvl
rfwoufulbgbmutglunuzgxkgqrbmksbgrlgbmkaugwvzba,gqmrimgamugqvagbkgfvcugsau
kpgvbgbmurzgprzabgvwwzkvimuajggBmragmvl cuzimrup,gwkraklu gqrbmgmra
xzuvbuabgvzb,gikfrlxgbkg.ugzs..u g.ubquulgbmugimvpu gpouamgvl gkwul
wkzua,g.kbmgkpgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,gakgas  ulotgrlpsau gbmugwkrakl,
bmvbgrffu rvbuotgiklnuzbrlxgbmurzgqvzfgrlbkgvgiko gaquvbgbmutgwzuaulbot
 ru grlgklugvlkbmuz’agvzfaj

.sbgRgzubszlgbkgIvuavzjggMragwouvaszuaglunuzgfv ugmrfgabuvogklugfrlsbugkp
vlgmksz,glkzgxkgklugabuwgvar ugpzkfgkiivarklagbmvbgfrxmbgvltgqvtgikl siu
bkgmragv nvliufulbjggBmragwvaarklgqvagakgaknuzurxlgrlgmrfgknuzgvoogbmu
zuab,gvl gqrbmgakgv.akosbugvsbmkzrbtgwkaauaau gmragakso,gbmvbgrbgxsr u 
mrfgvbgwouvaszujggRlgbzsbm,gbmragbzks.ouagfu,gqmul,gvagbkgunuztbmrlx
uoau,gRgiklar uzgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgbmragfvl,gvl gbmugqkl uzpsogwvzba
qmuzuqrbmgmugqvagul su ;gouvzlu gbkgbmvbg uxzuugrlgvoogakzbagkpgclkqou xu
bmvbgbmuzugragmvz otgvltgklugairuliugkpgqmrimgmugmvaglkbgqzrbbul;gak
xzuvbgvlgkzvbkzgbmvbgfvltgmvnugwzupuzzu gmraguokesuliugbkgbmvbgkpgIriuzk,
vl gmu,gRgikliurnu,g r glkbgbmrlcgmrfauopgrlpuzrkzgbkgmrfgrlgbmvb
wvzbrisovz,gpkzgmragbqkgvlbr-Ivbkagquzugqzrbbulgbkgikslbuz.vovliugbmu
uokisbrklgbmvbgIriuzkgmv guhwul u grlgmragIvbkjggVagbkgbmugzuab,gqvagunuz
aksogakgnrxrovlb,gakgvibrnu,gvl gakgwvbrulbgkpgov.kszgvagmra?gvl ,
 ks.bouaa,grbgqvaguf.uooramu gqrbmgfvltgzvzugauu agkpgnrzbsu,gornuot,
lvbszvo,gvl glkbgwsbgkl;gmugqvagarlxsovzotgak.uz;gakgpvzgpzkfg.urlx
 uorivbugrlgmrag rub,gbmvbgKwwrsagzuovbua,gmkqgbmvbgmvnrlxgklug vtgvb
bv.ougaubg.upkzugmrfgfu rivbu grlabuv gkpgikffklgkrogrlgakfugavsiu,gmu
vbugmuvzbrotgkpgrb,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgwsbgmragulbuzbvrluzgksbgkp
ikslbulvliujggVlkbmuzgbrfugmugivsau gmrag.vcuzgbkg.ugqmrwwu gpkzgauznrlx
mrfgqrbmgvgprluzgbmvlgkz rlvztgakzbgkpg.zuv jggIvbkgmrfauopgqvagqklbgbk
avtgkpgmrf,gbmvbgmugqvagbmugprzabgak.uzgfvlgqmkgunuzgfv ugrbgmrag.sarluaa
bkgzsrlgmragikslbztjggVl gvagbkgbmugavfugIvbk’agivoorlx,gmrfgklug vt
 zslcvz ,grbgpuoogksbgbmsag.urlxg.kbmgkpgbmufgrlgbmugAulvbu,gvbgvgbrfu
qmulgIvbrorlu’agiklawrzvitgqvagrlgesuabrklgkpgqmrimgqvagIvuavzgqva
asawuibu ,gklugivfugvl g.zksxmbgmrfgvgoubbuzgauvou gswjggIvbkg.uorunrlx
bmvbgrbgqvagakfubmrlxgbmugiklawrzvbkzagxvnugmrfglkbriugkp,gzuesrzu gmrf
bkg uornuzgrlbkgmragmvl ,gqmrimgIvuavzggqvagiklabzvrlu gbkg kgbkgvnkr 
pszbmuzgasawrirkljggRbgqvag.tgimvliugvgoknu-oubbuzgbmvbgAuznrorv,gIvbk’a
arabuz,gmv gqzrbbulgbkgmrf,gqmrimgIvbkgmvnrlxgzuv ,gmugbmzuqgrbg.vicgbk
mrfgavtrlx,g“Bmuzu,g zslcvz j”ggBmra,gRgavt,gqvagzvbmuzgvgqkz gkpg ra vrl
vl gvlxuzgbmvlgvlguhwzuaagzuwzkvimgkpgbmragnriu,gvagqugkpbulgzvbugbmkau
qmkgvlxuzgsagqrbmgbmugprzabgrlyszrksagqkz agbmvbgikfugrlbkgkszgfksbma,
bmksxmglkbmrlxg sugbkgbmkaugqugvzugkppul u gvb;gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u 
bmvbgbmugnriugqrbmgqmrimgIvbkgsw.zvr u gmrfgragqkl uzpsootgluvzgvcrlgbk
bmvbgqmuzurlgmugmv gaszwzrau gIvuavz;gpkzg.viimsagvl gNulsa,gviikz rlxgbk
bmugwzknuz.,gnuztgqroorlxotgvxzuu;g.sbgbkgfugNulsagragfsimgfkzugawzrxmbot
viikfwvlru g.tgak.zrubtjggBmuguhvfwouagkpgmragaquubluaagvl gioufulitgbk
bmkaug.tgqmkfgmugmv g.uulgkppul u gvzugrlprlrbu;gRgfuvl,g.uar uagbmkaugmu
xvnug szrlxgbmugbrfugkpgbmugirnrogqvza,gqmrim,gvagwovrlotgulksxmgvwwuvza
.tgmragqzrbrlxa,gmugwzvibrau gbkgivykougmragulufrua,gvl gbkgfvcugbmuf
ouaagvpzvr gkpgmragpsbszug kfrlrklgvl gnribkztjgg.sbgRgfsabgvoakgavt,
bmvbgrpgbmuauguhvfwouagvzuglkbgaspprirulbgwzkkpagkpgmraglvbszvo
aquubluaa,gbmut,gvbgouvab,gfvlrpuabgvgfvznuooksagiklpr uliugvl gxzvl usz
kpgikszvxugrlgbmragwuzakljggMugmvagkpbulg.uulgclkqlgbkg rafraagqmkou
vzfrua,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgknuzikfugbmuf,gbkgmragulufrua,gqrbmksbgzvlakf,gkz
 urxlrlxgakgfsimgvagbkg.rl gbmufg.tgkvbm,grpglkbgbkgpvnkszgmrf,gvbgouvab
lkgfkzugbkg.uvzgvzfagvxvrlabgmrf;gmugmvagbmzuugkzgpkszgbrfuagbvculgakfu
kpgWkfwut’agivwbvrlagwzrakluza,gvl gvagkpbulgaubgbmufgvbgor.uzbtjggWkfwut
 uiovzu gvoogbmkaugbkg.ugulufruagqmkg r glkbgpkookqgmrfgbkgbmugqvz;gmu
wzkiovrfu gvoogbmkaugbkg.ugmragpzrul agqmkgavbgabroogvl g r glkbgvibsvoot
bvcugvzfagvxvrlabgmrfjggBkgasimgivwbvrlagkpgmragvagzvlgvqvtgpzkfgmrfgbk
xkgknuzgbkgbmugkbmuzgar u,gmugaulb,gfkzuknuz,gbmurzgvzfa,gmkzaua,gvl 
uesrwvxu:gbmugirbruagmugmv gbvculg.tgpkziugmugoupbgvbgpsoogor.uzbtgbk
pkookqgqmrimgar ugbmutgwouvau ,grfwkarlxglkgkbmuzgxvzzraklgswklgbmufg.sb
bmugfufkztgkpgmragxulbouluaagvl gioufulitjggMugxvnugabzribgvl guhwzuaa
imvzxu,gbmug vtgkpgmragxzuvbg.vbbougkpgWmvzavorv,gbmvb,gqrbmksbgbmu
sbfkabgluiuaarbt,glkgklugamkso govtgvgmvl gswklgbmugirbrdulagkpgZkfuj
Bmuau,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gquzugnuztgmvdvz ksagwzkiuu rlxa,gvl g‘braglkgqkl uz
rpgbmkaugrlgkszgirnrogqvz,gqmk,gorcugmrf,gprxmbgvxvrlabgbmugvlirulb
uabvbugkpgbmurzgikslbzt,g kglkbgpkookqgmraguhvfwou;gbmutgvzu
uhbzvkz rlvztgfuvla,gvl gbmvbgklotgvwwuzbvrlgbkgIvuavz’agpkzbslu,gvl gbk
mragv frzv.ougpkzuarxmbgrlgbmugikl sibgkpgvppvrzajggQmulgRgiklar uzgbmu
rlikfwvzv.ougxzvl uszgkpgmragakso,gRguhisaugnribkztgbmvbgrbgikso glkb
 raulxvxugrbauopgpzkfgmrf,gunulgrlgakgslysabgvl gakgqricu gvgivsauj

Bkgzubszlgbkgmragioufulit:gqugmvnugfvltgabzrcrlxguhvfwouagrlgbmugbrfugkp
mragxknuzlfulb,gqmul,gvoogbmrlxag.urlxgzu siu gbkgmragwkquz,gmugmv glk
fkzugqzrbbulgvxvrlabgmrfgqmrimgmugmv gvagamvzwotgvlaquzu :gtubgmug r glkb
akklgvpbuzgpkz.uvzgbkgsaugmragrlbuzuabgbkgfvcugmrfgiklasojggIvrsagIvonsa,
qmkgmv gikfwkau gaunuzvogrlyszrksaguwrxzvfagvxvrlabgmrf,gmvnrlxgufwoktu 
fvltgkpgmragpzrul agbkgfu rvbugvgzuiklirorvbrklgqrbmgmrf,gIvuavz
nkoslbvzrotgwuzasv u gmrfauopgbkgqzrbugprzabgbkgmrfjggVl gkszgxkk 
Ivbsoosa,gqmkgmv gakgzs uotgzsppou gmrfgsl uzgbmuglvfugkpgFvfszzv,gikfrlx
bkgkppuzgmraguhisauagbkgmrf,gmugfv ugbmugavfug vtgarbgvbgmragbv.ouj
Mvnrlxgrlbuoorxuliugkpgakfugqmkgawkcugroogkpgmrf,gmug r glkgfkzu,g.sb
klotg.tgvgws.origkzvbrklg uiovzugbmvbgmugmv glkbriugkpgrbjggMugabroogouaa
puvzu gmragulufruagbmvlgmugmvbu gbmuf;gakfugiklawrzviruagvl giv.voagbmvb
quzugfv ugvxvrlabgmragorpug.urlxg raiknuzu gbkgmrf,gmugavbrapru gmrfauop
rlgws.oramrlxg.tgwzkiovfvbrklgbmvbgbmutgquzugclkqlgbkgmrf,gqrbmksb
pszbmuzgwzkauisbrlxgbmugiklawrzvbkzaj

Vagbkgbmugzuawuibgmugmv gpkzgmragpzrul a:gIvrsagKwwrsa,g.urlxgqrbmgmrf
swklgvgykszlut,gvl gprl rlxgmrfauopgroo,gmugoupbgmrfgbmugklotgok xrlxgmu
mv gpkzgmrfauop,gvl govtgvooglrxmbgswklgvgmvz gxzksl grlgbmugkwulgvrzj
Vagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagmragysabriu,gmugwsbgvg.uoknu gauznvlbgkpgmragbkg uvbm
pkzgotrlxgqrbmgvglk.ougZkfvl’agqrpu,gbmksxmgbmuzugqvaglkgikfwovrlbgfv uj
Lunuzgmv gfvlgfkzugfk uzvbrklgrlgmragnribkzt,glkzgfkzugzuakosbrklgrlgmra
v nuzaugpkzbsluj

.sbgvoogbmuaugxkk grliorlvbrklagquzugabrpou gvl gawkrou g.tgmragpszrksa
vf.rbrkl,g.tgqmrimgmugasppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.ugakgbzvlawkzbu gvl gfraou 
bmvbgklugfvtguvarotgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgbmragwvaarklgqvagbmugzs  uzgkpgvoogmra
vibrkla;gkpgvgor.uzvogfvl,grbgfv ugmrfgvgws.origbmrupgbkgaswwotgbmra
.kslbtgvl gwzkpsarkl,gvl gfv ugmrfgsbbuzgbmragnrougvl gslysabgavtrlx,
“Bmvbgrpgbmugfkabgqricu gvl gwzkporxvbugwuzaklagrlgbmugqkzo gmv g.uul
pvrbmpsogrlgauznrlxgmrfgbkqvz agmragv nvliufulb,gmugqkso gimuzramgvl 
wzupuzgbmufgbkgbmugsbfkabgkpgmragwkquz,gvagfsimgvagbmug.uabgkpgfulj”
gRbgrlbkhrivbu gmrfgqrbmgakguhiuaarnugvgnvlrbt,gvagbkg vzugbkg.kvabgrlgbmu
wzuauliugkpgmragpuookq-irbrdula,gbmvbgmugmv gfv ugbmugxzuvbgikffklquvobm
kpgZkfugvglvfugqrbmksbgpkzfgvl gqrbmksbg.k t;gvl gbkgavtgbmvbgmragvlaquza
pkzgbmugpsbszugamkso gabvl gpkzgovqa;gvl gvoakgbkgzuiurnugbmug.k tgkpgbmu
Aulvbugikfrlxgbkgmrf,garbbrlx;gbkgasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugv kzu ,gvl gbk
mvnug rnrlugmklkszagwvr gbkgmrfgrlgmragkqlgwzuauliujggBkgiklios u,gbmra
akougnriu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gawkrou grlgmrfgbmugfkabgzrimgvl g.uvsbrpso
lvbszugbmvbgunuzgqva,gvl gmvagzul uzu gmraglvfugv.kfrlv.ougbkgvoogxkk 
ful,grlgbmvbgmugqkso guzuibgmragxokztgswklgbmugzsrlagkpgmragikslbztgvl 
bmugas.nuzarklgkpgbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabgpokszramrlxgzuws.origbmugqkzo 
amvoogunuzgauuj

Bmuzugfrxmb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gfvltguhvfwouag.ugwzk siu gkpgxzuvbgfulgqmkf
wouvaszuagmvnugfv ugbkgluxouibgbmugikl sibgkpgbmurzgvppvrza,gvagFvzc
Vlbkltgvl gkbmuza;g.sbgqmuzugoknugvl gvf.rbrklgamkso g.ugrlguesvo
.vovliu,gvl gikfugbkgykabougqrbmguesvogpkziua,gRgfvcuglkg ks.bg.sbgbmu
ovabgqkso gqrlgbmugwzrduj

Bkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib:g‘bragfsimgbkg.zr ougkszgvwwubrbuag.tgbmu
vzxsfulbgkpgzuvakl,gkz,g.tgnrkouliu,gbkgiklbvrlgkszgfuf.uzagqrbmrlgbmurz
 sbt;g.sbgbkgovamgkszauonuagpkzgkszglurxm.ksz’agrlbuzuab,gvl glkbgklotgbk
 rnuabgkszauonuagkpgbmugimvzfrlxgwvaarklgbmvbgbricouagsa,gkpgbmugwouvaszu
qugpuuogrlg.urlxgvxzuuv.ougbkgkbmuza,gvl gikszbu gvl g.uoknu gkpgunuzt
klu,g.sbgvoakgbkgikliurnugvgmvbzu gvxvrlabgbmugxzviuagbmvbgwzk siugbmvb
uppuib,gvl gbkgikl uflgkszg.uvsbtg.uivsaugrbgrlpovfuagkbmuza;gkpgbmra,gR
iklpuaa,gRgmvnugfubgqrbmgpuqguhvfwouajgg.sbgbmragragklujggAwszrlv,gv
tkslxgfvlgkpgBsaivlt:

ggggggggg“Esvoragxuffvgfrivb,gpsonsfgesvug rnr rbgvszsf,
ggggggggggVsbgikookg uisa,gvsbgiswrbr:gnuogesvougwuzgvzbuf
ggggggggggRliosasfg.shkgvsbgKzrirvgbuzu.rlbmk
ggggggggggOsiubgu.sz,”

ggggg[“Vagvgxufgamrluagulimvau grlgtuookqgxko ,gkzgvlgkzlvfulbgklgbmu
gggggluicgkzgmuv ,gkzgvagrnkztgmvagosabzu,gaubg.tgvzbgrlg.khqkk gkz
gggggKzrirvlgu.kltj”--VUlur ,ghjg134j]

.urlxgul kqu gqrbmgvgarlxsovzg.uvsbt,gvl gakguhiuaarnu,gbmvbgbmugimvabuab
utuagikso glkbgimvabuotg.umko grbagzvta;glkbgiklbulbrlxgmrfauopgqrbm
ouvnrlxgakgfsimgpovfugvl gpunuzgvagmugunuztqmuzugcrl ou gqrbmksbgzuorup,
ulbuzu grlbkgvgpszrksagawrbugvxvrlabgmrfauopgvl gbmkaugxzuvbgul kqfulba
lvbszugmv gakgor.uzvootgiklpuzzu gswklgmrf,gvagrpgvgfvlgquzugzuawklar.ou
bkgmrfauopgpkzgbmugpvsobagkpgkbmuza,gvl gwszwkauotgaovamu gvl 
 raprxszu ,gqrbmgfvltgqksl agvl gaivza,gbmugwuzpuibgatffubztgvl 
wzkwkzbrklgbmvbglvbszugmv gakgiszrksaotgrfwzrlbu grlgmragpviujggBkgxrnu
ftgpzuugkwrlrkl,gRgfkzugv frzugbmvlgmklkszgasimgvibrkla:gasimguhiuaaua
vzugulufruagbkgftgzsouajggBmug uarxlgqvagiklairulbrksagvl gxkk ,g.sb
iuzbvrlotgvgorbboug upuibrnugrlgwzs uliujggQmvbgrpgmrag upkzfrbtgauznu 
vpbuzqvz agbkgfvcugkbmuzagxsrobtgkpgbmugarlgkpgmvbzu gkzgiklbufwb;gkzgkp
ulntgvbgbmugxokztgkpgakgzvzugvgzuikfful vbrkl;gkzgkpgivosflt,
rlbuzwzubrlxgbmragmsfkszgvgfv gvf.rbrkl!ggRagbmuzugvltgpkzfgpzkfgqmrim
nriugivllkb,grpgrbgqroo,guhbzvibgkiivarklgbkguhuziraugrbauop,gklugqvtgkz
vlkbmuz?ggRbgmv g.uulgfkzugysab,gvl gvoakgfkzuglk.ou,gbkgmvnugfv ugkp
bmuaugxrpbagkpgXk gvgas.yuibgkpguhufwovztgzuxsovzrbtgvl gnrzbsuj

Bmutgqmkgzubrzugbmufauonuagpzkfgbmugikffklgkppriua,gpzkfgbmvbgrlprlrbu
lsf.uzgkpgbzks.ouakfugzsouagbmvbgpubbuzgvgfvlgkpguhvibgmkluabtgrlgirnro
orpu,gvzugrlgftgkwrlrklgnuztg raizuub,gqmvbgwuisorvzgamvzwluaagkp
iklabzvrlbgakunuzgbmutgrfwkaugswklgbmufauonuagrlgakg krlxjgg‘Bragrlgakfu
akzbgvgcrl gkpg trlxgbkgvnkr gbmugwvrlgkpgornrlxgquoojggBmutgfvtgmvnu
vlkbmuzgzuqvz ;g.sbgbmugzuqvz gkpg rpprisobtgRgpvlitgbmutgivlglunuzgmvnu;
lkz,grlgsluvarluaa,gbmvbgbmuzugivlg.ugvltbmrlxgfkzugkzg.ubbuzg klugbmvl
bmugcuuwrlxgkluauopgswzrxmbgvfr gbmugqvnuagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbzsotgvl 
uhvibotgwuzpkzfrlxgvoogwvzbagkpgkszg sbtjgg‘Bra,gwuzv nulbszu,gfkzuguvat
bkgcuuwgiouvzgkpgbmugauhgbmvlgbkgfvrlbvrlgklu’agauopgvzrxmbgrlgvoogwkrlba
rlgbmugakirubtgkpgvgqrpu;gvl gvgfvlgfvtgqrbmgouaagbzks.ougv vwbgmrfauop
bkgulbrzugv.abrluliugbmvlgbkgbmug sug rawulavbrklgkpgv.sl vliujggSau,
ivzzru gklgviikz rlxgbkgzuvakl,gmvagrlgrbgfkzugkpg rpprisobtgbmvl
v.abrluliu;gfk uzvbrklgragvgnrzbsugbmvbgxrnuagfkzugqkzcgbmvlgasppuzrlx;
bmugquoogornrlxgkpgAirwrkgmvagvgbmksavl gpvamrkla,gbmvbgkpg rkxuluag.sb
klu;gbmragvagfsimguhiuoagbmugkz rlvztgornuagrlgrllkiuliugvagbmugfkab
viikfworamu guhiuogbmufgrlgsbrorbtgvl gpkziuj




IMVWBUZgHHHRN

K.AUZNVBRKLgKLgBMUgFUVLAgBKgIVZZTgKLgVgQVZgVIIKZ RLXgBKgYSORSAgIVUAVZ

‘Bragzuovbu gkpgfvltgxzuvbgouv uzagbmvbgbmutgmvnugmv giuzbvrlg.kkcagrl
wvzbrisovzguabuuf,gvagVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gMkfuz;gAirwrkgVpzrivlsa,
Hulkwmkl;gFvzisag.zsbsa,gWkot.rsa;gImvzouagNj,gWmrorw’ ugIkfrlua;gvl 
‘bragavr gbmvb,grlgkszgbrfua,gFvimrvnuoorgraguoauqmuzugabroogrlgzuwsbu;
.sbgbmugovbugFvzamvogAbzkddr,gqmkgmv gbvculgIvuavzgpkzgmragfvl,g ks.bouaa
fv ugbmug.uabgimkriu,gauurlxgbmvbgrbgrl uu gksxmbgbkg.ugbmug.zunrvztgkp
unuztgako ruz,gvag.urlxgbmugbzsugvl gaknuzurxlgwvbbuzlgkpgbmugfrorbvzt
vzbjggVl ,gfkzuknuz,gXk gclkqagqrbmgbmvbgxzviugvl g.uvsbtgmugmva
uf.uooramu gbmvbgzrimgfvbbuz,gqrbmgakgwszu,g uorivbu,gvl gwuzpuib
uhwzuaarkl,gbmvb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmuzugvzuglkgqzrbrlxagrlgbmugqkzo 
ikfwvzv.ougbkgmra,gvagbkgbmvbg.sarluaaj

Rgqroogaubg kqlgakfugzvzugvl gwvzbrisovzgwvaavxuagkpgmragqvzagbmvbgzufvrl
rlgftgfufkztj

Mragvzft,g.urlxgrlgakfugiklabuzlvbrklgswklgbmugzsfkszgbmvbgqvagawzuv gkp
bmugxzuvbgpkziuagbmvbgcrlxgYs.vgqvagouv rlxgvxvrlabgmrf,grlabuv gkp
v.vbrlxgbmugvwwzumularklgqmrimgmragako ruzagmv gikliurnu gvbgbmugluqagvl 
kpgouaaulrlxgbkgbmufgbmugpkziuagkpgbmuguluft,gmvnrlxgivoou gbmufgvoo
bkxubmuzgbkgulikszvxugvl gzuvaaszugbmuf,gmugbkkcgvgesrbugiklbzvztgqvtgbk
qmvbgqugvzugsau gbkg k,gpkzgmugbko gbmufgbmvbgbmutgluu glkgfkzugbzks.ou
bmufauonuagqrbmgrlesrzrlxgvpbuzgbmuguluft’agpkziua,gpkzgbmvbgmugqva
iuzbvrlotgrlpkzfu gbmuzukp,gvl gbmulgbko gbmufgkpgvglsf.uzgfsim
aszwvaarlxg.kbmgbmugbzsbmgvl gbmugzuwkzbgbmvbgqvagiszzulbgrlgmragvzft;
pkookqrlxgbmugv nriugkpgItzsagrlgHulkwmkl,gpkzvafsimgvagbmug uiuwbrklgra
lkbgkpgakgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgprl gvlguluftgquvcuzgbmvlgquguhwuibu ,gbmvl
bkgprl gmrfgzuvootgnuztgabzklx,gvpbuzgmvnrlxg.uulgfv ugbkg.uorunugbmvbgmu
qvagquvcj

Rbgqvagvoqvtagmragsaugbkgviisabkfgmragako ruzagarfwotgbkgk.ut,gqrbmksb
bvcrlxgswklgbmufgbkgiklbzko,gkzgakgfsimgvagbkgawuvcgkpgbmurzgivwbvrl’a
 uarxla,gqmrimgmuglunuzgikffslrivbu gbkgbmufg.sbgswklgbmugwkrlbgkp
uhuisbrkl;gvl gmugbkkcgvg uorxmb,grpgbmutg raiknuzu gvltbmrlxgkpgqmvbgmu
rlbul u ,grffu rvbuotgbkgimvlxugmragkz uzagbkg uiurnugbmuf;gvl gbkgbmvb
wszwkau,gqkso gkpbul,gqmulgmugmv gvaarxlu gmragesvzbuzagrlgvgwoviu,gwvaa
pkzqvz gvl goulxbmulgmrag vt’agfvzim,guawuirvootgrpgrbgqvagpksogvl gzvrlt
quvbmuzj

BmugAqraa,grlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgmragqvzagrlgXvso,gmvnrlxgaulbgbkgmrfgbk
 ufvl gvgpzuugwvaavxugknuzgbmugZkfvlgbuzzrbkzrua,gbmksxmgzuakonu gbk
mrl uzgbmufg.tgpkziu,gmuglunuzbmuouaagawkcugcrl otgbkgbmugfuaaulxuza,gvl 
bkkcgakfugzuawrbugbkgzubszlgvlgvlaquz,gbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmvbgbrfugpkzgbmu
ivoorlxgmragvzftgbkxubmuzjggBmuaugarootgwukwoug r glkbgclkqgmkqgxkk gv
msa.vl gmugqvagkpgmragbrfu:gpkzgmugkpbulgzuwuvbagbmvbgrbgragbmug.uabgwvzb
kpgvgivwbvrlgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgfvcugsaugkpgkiivarkla,gvl gmrag rorxuliugrl
mraguhwokrbagra,grlgbzsbm,gslmuvz gkpgvl grlizu r.ouj

Rpgmugqvaglkbgnuztgiklairulbrksagrlgbvcrlxgv nvlbvxugkpgvlguluftgsl uz
ikokszgkpgvgbzuvbtgkpgvxzuufulb,gmugqvagvagorbbougakgrlgbmra,gbmvbgmu
zuesrzu glkgkbmuzgnrzbsugrlgvgako ruzg.sbgnvokszgklot,gvl gauo kf
wslramu gvltgkbmuzgpvsobag.sbgfsbrltgvl g rak.u ruliujggMugqkso gkpbul
vpbuzgmragnribkzruagbszlgbmufgokkaugbkgvoogakzbagkpgoriuliu,g rawularlx
bmufgpkzgakfugbrfugpzkfgbmugzsouagkpgfrorbvztg rairworlu,gavtrlxgqrbmvo
bmvbgmugmv gako ruzagakgquoogbzvrlu gswgbmvb,gwkq uzu gvl gwuzpsfu ,gbmut
qkso gzslgpszrksaotgbkgbmugprxmbjggRlgbzsbm,gmugoknu gbkgmvnugbmufgzrimot
vzfu ,gvl gfv ugbmufgquvzgulxzvnu ,gxro u ,gvl g vfvacu gvzfksz,gbkgbmu
ul gbmvbgbmugivzugkpgavnrlxgrbgfrxmbgulxvxugbmufgbkgvgfkzugk.abrlvbu
 upuliujggAwuvcrlxgbkgbmuf,gmugivoou gbmufg.tgbmuglvfugkp
puookq-ako ruza,gqmrimgqugtubgsau;gqmrimgmragasiiuaakz,gVsxsabsa,
zupkzfu ,gaswwkarlxgmugmv gklotg klugrbgswklgluiuaarbt,gvl gbkgivykou
bmkaugqmkgfuzuotgpkookqu gmrfgvagnkoslbuuza:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“ZmulrgfrmrgIvuavzgrlgsl ra
gggggggggg shguzvb;gmrigakirsa;gpvirlsageskagrlesrlvb,gvuesvb:”

ggggg[“RlgbmugqvbuzagkpgbmugZmrlugIvuavzgqvagftgxuluzvo;gmuzugvbgZkfugmu
gggggragftgpuookqjggIzrfugounuoagbmkaugqmkfgrbgwkoosbu j”
gggggg--Osivl,gnjg289j]

.sbgbmvbgbmragivzzrvxugqvagbkkgfuvlgvl gokqgpkzgbmug rxlrbtgkpgvlgufwuzkz
vl gxuluzvogkpgvlgvzft,gvl gbmuzupkzug.zksxmbgswgbmugisabkfgkpgivoorlx
bmufgako ruzagklotj

QrbmgbmragikszbuatgIvuavzgfrhu gxzuvbgaunuzrbtgbkgcuuwgbmufgrlgvqu;gbmu
lrlbmgouxrklgmvnrlxgfsbrlru gluvzgWoviulbrv,gmugrxlkfrlrksaotgivamruzu 
bmuf,gbmksxmgWkfwutgqvagbmulgtubgklgpkkb,gvl gzuiurnu gbmufglkbgvxvrlgbk
xzviugbroogvpbuzgfvltgaswworivbrkla;gmugesrubu gbmufgfkzug.tgvsbmkzrbt
vl g.ko luaagbmvlg.tgxulbougqvtaj

Rlgbmvbgwoviugqmuzugmugawuvcagkpgmra,gwvaavxugknuzgbmugZmrlugbkgXuzfvlt,
mugavtagbmvb,gbmrlcrlxgrbgslqkzbmtgkpgbmugmklkszgkpgbmugZkfvlgwukwougbk
qvpbgknuzgmragvzftgrlgnuaauoa,gmug.srobgvg.zr xugbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgwvaa
knuzg zt-pkkbjggBmuzugrbgqvagbmvbgmug.srobgbmvbgqkl uzpsog.zr xugkpgqmrim
mugxrnuagakgwvzbrisovzgvg uaizrwbrkl;gpkzgmuglkqmuzugakgqroorlxotg quooa
swklgmragvibrklagvagrlgzuwzuaulbrlxgbkgsagbmugas.boubtgkpgmragrlnulbrkla
rlgasimgcrl gkpgmvl rqkzcj

Rgmvnugvoakgk.auznu gbmra,gbmvbgmugaubgvgxzuvbgnvosugswklgmra
uhmkzbvbrklagbkgbmugako ruzag.upkzugbmugprxmb;gpkzgqmuzugmugqkso gamkq
bmvbgmugqvagurbmuzgaszwzrau gkzgzu siu gbkgvgluiuaarbtgkpgprxmbrlx,gmu
voqvtag.zrlxagrlgbmra,gbmvbgmugmv glkbgakgfsimgvagouraszugbkgmvzvlxsugmra
vzftjgg.upkzugbmvbgxzuvbg.vbbougqrbmgbmkaugkpgBkszlvt,g“Ivuavz,”gavtagmu,
“mvnrlxgxrnulgkz uzgpkzgunuztbmrlxguoau,gwzuaulbotgzvlgqmuzugpkzbslu
ivzzru gmrfgbkgulikszvxugmragwukwou,gvl gfuubrlxgqrbmgbmugbulbmgouxrkl,
mv glkgfkzugbrfugbkgavtgvltbmrlxgbkgbmufg.sbgbmra,gbmvbgbmutgamkso 
zufuf.uzgbmurzgqklbu gnvoksz;glkbgbkg.ugvabklramu ,g.sbg.zvnuotgasabvrl
bmuguluft’agulikslbuz;gvl gauurlxgbmuguluftgmv gvozuv tgvwwzkvimu gqrbmrl
vg vzb’agivab,gmugxvnugbmugarxlvogpkzg.vbbou;gvl gxkrlxgas  ulotgbmuliu
uoauqmuzu,gbkgulikszvxugkbmuza,gmugpksl gbmvbgbmutgquzugvozuv tgulxvxu j”
gMuzugragqmvbgmugbuooagsagrlgbmvbgwoviujggMragbklxsu,grl uu ,g r gmrf
lkbv.ougauznriugswklgaunuzvogkiivarkla,gvl gmragfrorbvztguokesuliugqva,
rlgmragkqlgbrfu,gakgmrxmotgzuwsbu ,gbmvbgfvltgkpgmragvzftgqzkbug kqlgmra
mvzvlxsuagvagmugawkcugbmuf,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmuzugquzugnkosfuagkpgbmuf
ikoouibu gbmvbguhrabu gvgoklxgbrfugvpbuzgmrfjggMugmv gakgwvzbrisovzgv
xzviugrlgawuvcrlx,gbmvbgmragrlbrfvbua,gvl gVsxsabsagvfklxabgkbmuza,
muvzrlxgbmkaugkzvbrklagzuv ,gikso g rabrlxsramgunulgbkgbmugwmzvauagvl 
qkz agbmvbgquzuglkbgmraj

BmugprzabgbrfugbmvbgmugqulbgksbgkpgZkfugqrbmgvltgws.origikffvl ,gmu
vzzrnu grlgurxmbg vtagvbgbmugzrnuzgZmklu,gmvnrlxgqrbmgmrfgrlgmragikvimgv
auizubvztgkzgbqkg.upkzugmrfgqmkgquzugiklbrlsvootgqzrbrlx,gvl gmrfgqmk
ivzzru gmragaqkz g.umrl gmrfjggVl giuzbvrlot,gbmksxmgvgfvlg r glkbmrlx
.sbgxkgkl,gmugikso gmvz otgvbbvrlgbmvbgwzkfwbrbs ugqrbmgqmrim,gmvnrlx
.uulgunuztqmuzugnribkzrksagrlgXvso,gmugoupbgrb,gvl ,gpkookqrlxgWkfwutgbk
.zsl sarsf,grlgurxmbuulg vta’gbrfugmugas. su gvoogRbvot;gzubszlu gpzkf
.zsl sarsfgbkgZkfu;gpzkfgZkfugqulbgrlbkgbmugnuztgmuvzbgkpgAwvrl,gqmuzugmu
aszfkslbu guhbzufug rpprisobruagrlgbmugqvzgvxvrlabgVpzvlrsagvl gWubzursa,
vl grlgbmugoklxgaruxugkpgFvzaurooua;gbmuliugmugzubszlu grlbkgFviu klrv,
.uvbgbmugZkfvlgvzftgvbgWmvzavorv,gwvaau gbmuliugrlgwszasrbgkpgWkfwutgrlbk
Uxtwb,gqmrimgmugvoakgas. su ;gpzkfgUxtwbgmugqulbgrlbkgAtzrvgvl gbmu
buzzrbkzruagkpgWklbsa,gqmuzugmugpksxmbgWmvzlviua;gbmuliugrlbkgVpzriv,
qmuzugmug upuvbu gAirwrkgvl gYs.v;gvxvrlgzubszlu gbmzksxmgRbvot,gqmuzugmu
 upuvbu gWkfwut’agakla:

ggggggggggggggg“Kitkzgubgikuorgprvffra,gubgbrxzr ugpkubvj”

gggggggggg[“Aqrpbuzgbmvlgorxmblrlx,gkzgbmugis.-.uvzrlxgbrxzuaaj”
ggggggggggg--Osivl,gnjg405]

gggggggggggggg“Vignuosbrgfklbragavhsfg u,gnuzbriugwzvuiuwa
gggggggggggggggIsfgzsrbgvnsoasfgnulbk,gausgbsz.r sagrf.uz
gggggggggggggggWzkosrb,gvsbgvllragakonrbgas.ovwavgnubsabva,
gggggggggggggggPuzbszgrlgv.zswbsfgfvxlkgfklagrfwzk.sagvibs,
gggggggggggggggUhsobvbesugakok,garonva,gvzfulbv,gnrzkaesu,
gggggggggggggggRlnkonulagauisfj”

ggggg[“Vl gvagvgabklugbkzlgpzkfgbmugfkslbvrl’agbkwg.tgbmugqrl gkzgzvrl
gggggbkzzulba,gkzgokkaulu g.tgvxu,gpvooagfvaarnugqrbmgfrxmbtgpkziu,
ggggg.ksl agmuzugvl gbmuzu,grlgrbagikszaugaquuwagpzkfgbmuguvzbmgqrbmgrb
gggggqkk a,gmuz a,gvl gfulj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg684j]

AwuvcrlxgkpgbmugaruxugkpgVnvzrisf,gmugavta,gbmvbgrb,gqvagmragisabkfgbkg.u
lrxmbgvl g vtgqrbmgbmugwrkluuzaj--[Ulxrluuzajgg jQj]--Rlgvoogulbuzwzraua
kpgiklauesuliugmugvoqvtagzuikllkrbzu grlgwuzakl,gvl glunuzg.zksxmbgmra
vzftgrlbkgesvzbuzagbroogmugmv gprzabgnruqu gbmugwoviu,gvl ,grpgqugfvt
.uorunugAsubklrsa,gqmulgmugzuakonu gbkgwvaagknuzgrlbkgUlxovl ,gmugqvagbmu
przabgfvlgbmvbgaksl u gbmugwvaavxuj

Mugqvagqklbgbkgavtgbmvbgmugfkzugnvosu gvgnribkztgk.bvrlu g.tgikslauogbmvl
.tgpkziu,gvl grlgbmugqvzgvxvrlabgWubzursagvl gVpzvlrsa,gpkzbslu
wzuaulbrlxgmrfgqrbmgvlgkiivarklgkpgfvlrpuabgv nvlbvxu,gmug uiorlu grb,
avtrlx,gbmvbgmugmkwu ,gqrbmgvgorbbougfkzugbrfu,g.sbgouaagmvdvz ,gbk
knuzbmzkqgmragulufruajggMugbmuzugvoakgwovtu gvglkbv.ougwvzbgrlgikffvl rlx
mragqmkougvzftgbkgwvaagbmugzrnuzg.tgaqrffrlx,gqrbmksbgvltgfvlluzgkp
luiuaarbt:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Zvwsrbesugzsulagrlgwzvuorvgfroua,
ggggggggggEsk gpsxrulagbrfsraaub,grbuz;gfkhgs vgzuiuwbra
ggggggggggFuf.zvgpknulbgvzfra,gxuor kaesugvgxszxrbu,giszas
ggggggggggZuabrbsslbgvzbsaj”

ggggg[“Bmugako ruzgzsamrlxgbmzksxmgvgqvtgbkgprxmbgqmrimgmugqkso gmvnu
ggggg.uulgvpzvr gbkgmvnugbvculgrlgporxmb:gbmulgqrbmgbmurzgvzfkszgbmut
gggggiknuzgqubgorf.a,gvl g.tgzsllrlxgzuabkzugqvzfbmgbkgbmurzglsf.u 
gggggykrlbaj”--Osivl,grnjgg151j]

Rgprl gmrfgvgorbbougfkzugbufwuzvbugvl giklar uzvbugrlgmragulbuzwzraua
bmvlgVouhvl uz,gpkzgbmragfvlgauufagbkgauucgvl gzslgmuv oklxgswklg vlxuza
orcugvlgrfwubsksagbkzzulbgqmrimgvbbvicagvl gzsamuagvxvrlabgunuztbmrlxgrb
fuuba,gqrbmksbgimkriugkzg raizubrkl;

gggggggggggggggggggg“ArigbvszrpkzfragnkonrbszgVspr sa;
ggggggggggggggggggggEsrgzuxlvg vslrgwuzposrbgVwwsor,
gggggggggggggggggggg sfgavunrb,gmkzzul vfesugisobra
gggggggggggggggggggg rosnrufgfu rbvbszgvxzra;”

ggggg[“Akgbmug.rpkzcu gVspr sa,gqmrimgpokqagbmzksxmgbmugzuvofgkpgbmu
gggggVwsorvlg vslsa,gqmulgzvxrlx,gbmzuvbulagvgpuvzpsog uosxugbkgbmu
gggggbroou gxzksl j”--Mkzvbj,gK j,grnjg14,g25j]

vl ,grl uu ,gmugqvagvgxuluzvogrlgbmugpokquzgvl gprzabgmuvbgkpgmragtksbm,
qmuzuvagIvuavzgbkkcgswgbmugbzv ugvbgvgzrwugvl gquoogv nvliu gvxu;gbk
qmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmvbgVouhvl uzgqvagkpgvgfkzugavlxsrlu,gmkb,gvl 
imkouzrigiklabrbsbrkl,gqmrimgmugvoakgrlpovfu gqrbmgqrlu,gpzkfgqmrim
Ivuavzgqvagnuztgv.abrlulbj

.sbgqmuzugluiuaavztgkiivarklgzuesrzu ,glunuzg r gvltgfvlgnulbszugmra
wuzaklgfkzugbmvlgmu:gakgfsimgak,gbmvbgpkzgftgwvzb,gfubmrlcagRgzuv grl
fvltgkpgmraguhwokrbagvg ubuzfrlvbugzuakosbrklgbkgbmzkqgmrfauopgvqvtgbk
vnkr gbmugamvfugkpg.urlxgknuzikfujggRlgmragxzuvbg.vbbougqrbmgbmkaugkp
Bkszlvt,gmugimvzxu gswgbkgbmugmuv gkpgbmugulufruagqrbmksbgmragamruo ,
ysabgvagmugqvagauurlxgbmugnvlgkpgmragkqlgvzftg.uxrllrlxgbkgxrnugxzksl ’;
qmrimgvoakgaunuzvogkbmuzgbrfuag.upuoogmrfjggMuvzrlxgbmvbgmragwukwougquzu
.uaruxu ,gmugwvaau gbmzksxmgbmuguluft’agvzftgrlg raxsraugbkgxkgvl 
ulikszvxugbmufgqrbmgmragwzuauliujggMvnrlxgizkaau gknuzgbkg tzzvimrsfgqrbm
nuztgaoul uzgpkziua,gvl gauurlxgbmugzufvrl uzgkpgmragvzftgqmrimgmugmv 
oupbgbkgVlbklt’agikl sibgaokqgrlgpkookqrlxgmrf,gmugsl uzbkkcgvoklugbk
zuwvaagbmugauvgrlgvgnuztgxzuvbgabkzfagvl gwzrnvbuotgabkougvqvtgbkgpubim
bmugzuabgkpgmragpkziua,gbmugwkzbagklgbmugkbmuzgar ug.urlxgaurdu g.t
Wkfwut,gvl gbmugqmkougauvg.urlxgrlgmragwkaauaarkljggVl gvagbkgqmvbgmu
wuzpkzfu g.tgpkziugkpgmvl ,gbmuzugvzugfvltguhwokrbagbmvbgrlgmvdvz guhiuu 
voogbmugzsouagkpgqvz;gpkzgqrbmgmkqgafvoogfuvlag r gmugsl uzbvcugbkgas. su
bmugcrlx kfgkpgUxtwb,gvl gvpbuzqvz agbkgvbbvicgbmugpkziuagkpgAirwrkgvl 
Ys.v,gbulgbrfuagxzuvbuzgbmvlgmragkql?ggBmuaugwukwougmv ,gRgclkqglkbgqmvb,
fkzugbmvlgmsfvlgiklpr uliugrlgbmurzgpkzbslu;gvl gmugqvagqklbgbkgavtgbmvb
fulgfsabguf.vzc,gvl glkbg uor.uzvbu,gswklgmrxmgulbuzwzrauajggVpbuzgbmu
.vbbougkpgWmvzavorv,gqmulgmugmv gaulbgmragvzftgvqvtg.upkzugmrfgrlbkgVarv,
vl gqvagwvaarlxgrlgklugarlxougnuaauogbmugabzvrbgkpgbmugMuoouawklb,gmugfub
OsirsagIvaarsagvbgauvgqrbmgbulgbvoogful-kp-qvz,gqmulgmugmv gbmugikszvxu
lkbgklotgbkgabvtgmragikfrlx,g.sbgbkgavrogswgbkgmrfgvl gasffklgmrfgbk
truo ,gqmrimgmug r j

Mvnrlxgsl uzbvculgbmvbgpszrksagaruxugkpgVouhrv,gqmuzugbmuzugquzu
pkszaikzugbmksavl gfulgrlgxvzzrakl,gvoogXvsog.urlxgrlgvzfagbkgzvraugbmu
aruxugvl gmvnrlxgaubgvlgvzftgklgpkkbgkpgvgmsl zu gvl glrlugbmksavl 
mkzau,gvl gkpgbqkgmsl zu gvl gpkzbtgbmksavl gpkkb,gqmvbgvg.ko luaagvl 
numufulbgiklpr uliugqvagrbgrlgmrfgbmvbgmugqkso glkbgxrnugknuzgmra
vbbufwb,g.sbgzuakonu gswklgbqkgakgxzuvbg rpprisobrua--qmrimglunuzbmuouaa
mugknuzivfu;gvl ,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgqklgbmvbgxzuvbg.vbbougvxvrlabgbmkau
qrbmksb,gakklgzu siu gbmkaugqrbmrlgbkgmragfuzitjggBmugavfugmvwwulu gbk
OsisoosagvbgbmugaruxugkpgBrxzvlkiuzbvgvxvrlabgCrlxgBrxzvlua,g.sbgbmu
ikl rbrklgkpgbmuguluftgqvaglkbgbmugavfu,giklar uzrlxgbmuguppufrlvitgkp
bmkaugqrbmgqmkfgOsisoosagmv gbkg uvojggRgqroogmuzugaubg kqlgbqkgzvzugvl 
uhbzvkz rlvztgunulbagikliuzlrlxgbmragaruxugkpgVouhrv;gklu,gbmvbgbmugXvsoa
mvnrlxg zvqlgbmurzgwkquzagbkxubmuzgbkgulikslbuzgIvuavz,gvpbuzgbmutgmv 
fv ugvgxuluzvogfsabuzgkpgvoogbmurzgpkziua,gzuakonu grlgbmurzgikslirogkp
qvzgbkg rafraagvgxkk gwvzbgkpgbmragxzuvbgfsobrbs u,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkb
pvoogrlbkgiklpsarkljggBmraguhvfwougkpgpuvzrlxgbkg.ugbkkgfvltgragluq;g.sb,
bkgbvcugrbgzrxmb,grbgabvl agbkgzuvaklgbmvbgbmug.k tgkpgvlgvzftgamkso g.u
kpgvgfk uzvbugxzuvbluaa,gvl gzuxsovbu gbkgiuzbvrlg.ksl a,g.kbmgksbgkp
zuawuibgbkgbmug rpprisobtgkpgwzknr rlxgpkzgbmuf,gvl gbmug rpprisobtgkp
xknuzlrlxgvl gcuuwrlxgbmufgrlgkz uzjggVbgouvabgrbgragnuztguvatgbkgfvcugrb
vwwuvzg.tguhvfwougbmvbgvzfruagfklabzksagrlglsf.uzgmvnugauo kfg klu
vltbmrlxgbkgwszwkaujggViikz rlxgbkgbmugavtrlxgkpgItzsagrlgHulkwmkl,
“‘Braglkbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgful,g.sbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgxkk gful,gbmvbgxrnuagbmu
v nvlbvxu”:gbmugzufvrl uzgauznrlxgzvbmuzgbkgbzks.ougbmvlgvaarabjggVl 
.vyvdubgwzrlirwvootgxzksl u gmragzuakosbrklgkpgxrnrlxgBvfuzovlug.vbbou,
iklbzvztgbkgbmugkwrlrklgkpgvoogmragivwbvrla,gswklgbmra,gbmvbgmragulufrua
lsf.uzouaaglsf.uzgkpgfulgxvnugmrfgvaaszu gmkwuagkpgiklpsarklj
Aivl uz.ux,gvgnuztgxkk gvl guhwuzbgys xugrlgasimgfvbbuza,gqvagqklbgbkgavt
bmvbgbulgkzgbquonugbmksavl gzuorv.ougprxmbrlxgfulgquzugaspprirulbgbkgv
xkk gouv uzgbkgauiszugmragzuxsovbrklgrlgvoogakzbagkpgfrorbvztgkiivarklaj
BmugkbmuzgbmrlxgRgqroogmuzugzuikz ,gqmrimgauufagbkg.ugiklbzvztg.kbmgbk
bmugisabkfgvl gzsouagkpgqvz,gra,gbmvbgNuzirlxubkzrh,gqmkgqvagfv ugxuluzvo
kpgvoogbmugwvzbagkpgbmugzunkobu gXvso,gamkso gxkgamsbgswgmrfauopgrl
Vouhrv:gpkzgmugqmkgmvagbmugikffvl gkpgvgqmkougikslbztgksxmbglunuzgbkgamsb
mrfauopgswg.sbgrlgivaugkpgasimgovabguhbzufrbtgbmvbgbmugklotgwoviugmugmva
oupbgragrlgikliuzl,gvl gbmvbgbmugklotgmkwugmugmvagoupbgragrlgbmug upuliu
kpgbmvbgirbt;gkbmuzqraugmugksxmbgbkgcuuwgmrfauopgvoqvtagvbgor.uzbt,gbmvb
mugfvtgmvnugbmugfuvlagbkgwzknr u,grlgxuluzvo,gpkzgvoogwvzbagkpgmra
xknuzlfulbj

BkgzubszlgbkgIvuavzjggMugxzuq,grlgbrfu,gfkzugaokqgvl gfkzugiklar uzvbu,
vagmragpzrul gKwwrsagqrbluaaua:gikliurnrlxgbmvbgmugksxmbglkbgorxmbotgbk
mvdvz gbmugxokztgkpgakgfvltgnribkzrua,gqmrimgklug.okqgkpgpkzbslugfrxmb
 uwzrnugmrfgkpjgg‘BragqmvbgbmugRbvorvlagavt,gqmulgbmutgqkso gzuwzkvimgbmu
zvamluaagvl gpkkomvz rluaagkpgtkslxgwukwou,givoorlxgbmufg.rakxlkar
 ’klkzu,g“luiuaarbksagkpgmklksz,”gvl gbmvbg.urlxgrlgakgxzuvbgvgqvlbgvl 
 uvzbmgkpgzuwsbvbrkl,gbmutgmvnugzuvaklgbkgauucgrbgvbgqmvbgwzriugakunuz,
qmrimgbmutgksxmbglkbgbkg kgqmkgmvnugviesrzu gulksxmgvozuv tjggBmuzugfvt
zuvaklv.otg.ugakfugfk uzvbrkl,gakfugavbrubt,grlgbmragbmrzabgvl gvwwubrbu
kpgxokzt,gvagquoogvagrlgkbmuzgbmrlxa:gvl gbmuzugvzugulksxmgwukwougqmk
wzvibraugrbj

MugqvagpvzgzufkbugpzkfgbmugzuorxrksagaizswouagkpgbmugvlirulbgZkfvla,gqmk
qkso glunuzgwzunvrogrlgbmurzgqvzag.sbg.tg rlbgkpgwszugvl garfwougnvoksz;
vl gtubgmugqvagfkzugiklairulbrksagbmvlgqugamkso g.ugrlgbmuaug vta,gvl 
 r glkbgvwwzknugvoogakzbagkpgfuvlagbkgk.bvrlgvgnribkztjggRlgbmugqvz
vxvrlabgVzrknrabsa,gqmroabgmugqvagwvzoutrlxgqrbmgmrf,gbmuzugmvwwulu gakfu
ikffkbrklg.ubquulgbmugmkzauful,gqmrimgqvagkiivarklu g.tgbmugpvsobgkp
Vzrknrabsa’gorxmbgmkzau,gqmuzurl,gbmksxmgIvuavzgavqgmugmv gvgnuztgxzuvb
v nvlbvxugkpgbmuguluft,gmugqkso gfvcuglkgsaugkl’b,gouabgmugamkso gmvnu
.uulgzuwzkvimu gqrbmgvgbzuvimuzksagwzkiuu rlxj

Mugqvagvoqvtagqklbgbkgquvzgzrimgxvzfulba,gvl gkpgvgamrlrlxgikokszgrl
.vbbou,gbmvbgmugfrxmbg.ugbmugfkzugzufvzcv.ougvl g.ubbuzgk.auznu j

Mugvoqvtagivzzru gvgabzribuzgvl gbrxmbuzgmvl gknuzgmragako ruzagqmulgluvz
vlguluftjggQmulgbmugvlirulbgXzuucagqkso gviisaugvltgklugkpguhbzufu
rlaspprirulit,gbmutgqkso gavt,grlgikffklgwzknuz.,gbmvbgmugikso glurbmuz
zuv glkzgaqrf;gmugqvagkpgbmugavfugkwrlrkl,gbmvbgaqrffrlxgqvagkpgxzuvbgsau
rlgqvz,gvl gmrfauopgpksl grbgak;gpkzgqmulgmugmv gbkgsaug rorxuliu,gmu
ikffklotgaqvfgknuzgbmugzrnuzagrlgmragqvt;gpkzgmugoknu gbkgfvzimgklgpkkb,
vagvoakg r gVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvbjgg.urlxgrlgUxtwbgpkziu ,gbkgavnugmrfauop,
bkgxkgrlbkgvgorbboug.kvb,gvl gakgfvltgwukwougouvwrlxgrlgqrbmgmrfgbmvbgrb
qvagrlg vlxuzgkpgarlcrlx,gmugimkaugzvbmuzgbkgikffrbgmrfauopgbkgbmugauv,
vl gaqvfgbkgmragpouub,gqmrimgovtgbqkgmsl zu gwviuagkpp,gmko rlxgrlgmra
oupbgmvl gmragbv.ouba,gvl g zvqrlxgmragikvbvzfkszgrlgmragbuubm,gbmvbgrb
frxmbglkbgpvoogrlbkgbmuguluft’agmvl ,gvl gvbgbmragbrfugmugqvagkpgvgwzubbt
v nvliu gvxuj

Lunuzgmv gvltgxuluzvogakgfsimgizu rbgqrbmgmragako ruza:grlgbmug.uxrllrlx
kpgbmugirnrogqvza,gmragiulbszrklagkppuzu gmrfgbkgprl gunuztgklugv
fvl-vb-vzfagvbgmragkqlgimvzxu,gvl gbmugpkkbgako ruzagbkgauznugmrfgvb
bmurzgkqlguhwulau;gbmkaugqmkgquzugfkabgvbgbmurzguvau,gfkzuknuz,
sl uzbvcrlxgbkg upzvtgbmugfkzugluiuaarbksajggBmugovbugV frzvogImvabrookl

ggggg[Xvawvz g ugIkorxlt,gvaavaarlvbu ggrlgbmugAbjg.vzbmkokfuq
gggggfvaavizu,g24bmgVsxsabg1572j]

amkqu gsagbmugorcuguhvfwougrlgkszgirnrogqvza;gpkzgbmugPzulimgkpgmragvzft
wzknr u gfklutgksbgkpgbmurzgkqlgwszauagbkgwvtgbmugpkzurxluzagbmvbgquzu
qrbmgmrfjggBmuzugvzug.sbgzvzuotgpksl guhvfwouagkpgakgvz ulbgvl gakgzuv t
vlgvppuibrklgvfklxabgbmugako ruzagkpguo uzgbrfua,gqmkgcuwbgbmufauonua
abzribotgbkgbmurzgzsouagkpgqvz:gwvaarklgmvagvgfkzugv.akosbugikffvl gknuz
sagbmvlgzuvakl;gvl gtubgrbgmvwwulu grlgbmugqvzgvxvrlabgMvllr.vo,gbmvbg.t
bmuguhvfwougkpgbmugwukwougkpgZkfugrlgbmugirbt,gbmugako ruzagvl givwbvrla
zupsau gbmurzgwvtgrlgbmugvzft,gvl grlgFvziuoosa’givfwgbmkaugquzug.zvl u 
qrbmgbmuglvfugkpgFuziulvzruagqmkgqkso gzuiurnugvltjggMvnrlxgxkbgbmugqkzab
kpgrbgluvzg tzzvimrsf,gmragako ruzagivfugvl gkppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.u
imvabrau gvl gwslramu ,gakgbmvbgbmuzugqvagfkzugluu gbkgikfpkzbgbmvl
zuwzknugbmufjggKlugarlxougikmkzbgkpgmragqrbmabkk gpkszgkpgWkfwut’a
ouxrklagv.knugpkszgmkszagbkxubmuz,gbroogbmutgquzugvofkabgvoogcroou gqrbm
vzzkqa,gakgbmvbgbmuzugquzugvgmsl zu gvl gbmrzbtgbmksavl gamvpbagpksl grl
bmugbzulimuajggVgako ruzgivoou gAivunv,gqmkgikffvl u gvbgklugkpgbmu
vnulsua,grlnrlir.otgfvrlbvrlu gmragxzksl ,gmvnrlxgokabgvlgutu,gqrbmgklu
amkso uzgvl gklugbmrxmgamkbgbmzksxm,gvl gmragamruo gmrbgrlgbqkgmsl zu 
vl gbmrzbtgwoviuajgRbgmvwwulu gbmvbgfvltgkpgmragako ruzag.urlxgbvcul
wzrakluza,gzvbmuzgimkaugbkg rugbmvlgwzkfraugbkgykrlgbmugiklbzvztgar uj
XzvlrsagWubzklrsagqvagbvculg.tgAirwrkgrlgVpzriv:gAirwrkgmvnrlxgwsbgbmu
zuabgbkg uvbm,gaulbgmrfgqkz gbmvbgmugxvnugmrfgmragorpu,gpkzgmugqvagvgfvl
kpgesvorbtgvl gesvuabkz,gbkgqmkfgWubzklrsagaulbgvlaquzg.vic,gbmvb
Ivuavz’agako ruzagquzugqklbgbkgxrnugkbmuzagbmurzgorpu,gvl glkbgbkgzuiurnu
rb;gvl grffu rvbuotgqrbmgmragkqlgmvl gcroou gmrfauopj

Kpgbmurzgpr uorbtgbmuzugvzugrlprlrbuguhvfwouagvfklxabgbmuf,gbmvbgqmrim
qvag klug.tgbmkaugqmkgquzug.uaruxu grlgAvoklv,gvgirbtgbmvbgabkk gpkz
IvuavzgvxvrlabgWkfwut,graglkb,gpkzgbmugzvzrbtgkpgvlgviir ulbgbmvbgbmuzu
mvwwulu ,gbkg.ugpkzxkbbuljggFvzisagKibvnrsagcuwbgbmufgiokaug.uaruxu ;
bmutgqrbmrlg.urlxgzu siu gbkgbmuguhbzufuabgluiuaarbtgkpgvoogbmrlxa,gak
bmvbgbkgaswwotgbmugqvlbgkpgful,gfkabgkpgbmufg.urlxgurbmuzgaovrlgkz
qksl u ,gbmutgmv gfvlsfrbbu gvoogbmurzgaovnua,gvl gmv g.uulgiklabzvrlu 
bkgisbgkppgvoogbmugqkful’agmvrzgbkgfvcugzkwuagpkzgbmurzgqvzgulxrlua,
.uar uagvgqkl uzpsog uvzbmgkpgnribsvoa,gvl gtubgiklbrlsrlxgzuakosbuglunuz
bkgtruo jggVpbuzgmvnrlxg zvqlgbmugaruxugbkgvgxzuvbgoulxbm,g.tgqmrim
Kibvnrsagqvagxzkqlgfkzugluxorxulbgvl gouaagvbbulbrnugbkgmragulbuzwzrau,
bmutgfv ugimkriugkpgklug vtgv.ksbglkkl,gvl gmvnrlxgprzabgwoviu gbmugqkful
vl gimro zulgswklgbmugqvooagbkgfvcugvgamkq,gavooru gswklgbmug.uaruxuza
qrbmgasimgpszt,gbmvbgmvnrlxgzksbu gbmugprzab,gauikl ,gvl gbmrz g.k t,gvl 
vpbuzqvz agbmugpkszbm,gvl gbmugzuab,gvl g.uvbulgbmufgvoogksbgkpgbmurz
bzulimua,gbmutgwszasu gbmufgunulgbkgbmurzgamrwa,gvl gKibvnrsagmrfauopgqva
pvrlgbkgpotgbkg tzzvimrsf,gqmuzugWkfwutgovtjggRg kglkbgvbgwzuaulb
zufuf.uzgbmvbgRgmvnugfubgqrbmgvltgkbmuzguhvfwougqmuzugbmug.uaruxu gunuz
xvnugbmug.uaruxuzgvgbkbvog upuvbgvl gqklgbmugpruo ,glkzgbmvbgvgakzbru
unuzgvimrunu gbmugzuasobgkpgvgwszugvl gulbrzugnribkztj




IMVWBUZgHHHN

KPgBMZUUgXKK gQKFUL

Bmutgvzuglkbg.tgbmug kdul,gvagunuztgklugclkqa,gvl guawuirvootgrlgbmu
 sbruagkpgfvzzrvxu,gpkzgbmvbgragvg.vzxvrlgpsoogkpgakgfvltglriu
irzisfabvliuagbmvbg‘bragmvz gvgqkfvl’agqroogamkso goklxgul szugasimgv
zuabzvrlb;gful,gbmksxmgbmurzgikl rbrklg.ugakfubmrlxg.ubbuzgsl uzgbmvb
bru,gmvnugtubgulksxmgbkg kjggBmugbzsugbksimgvl gbuabgkpgvgmvwwtgfvzzrvxu
mvnugzuawuibgbkgbmugbrfugkpgbmugikfwvlrklamrw,grpgrbgmvag.uulgiklabvlbot
xulbou,goktvo,gvl gvxzuuv.oujggRlgkszgvxu,gqkfulgikffklotgzuauznugbmu
ws.orivbrklgkpgbmurzgxkk gkppriua,gvl gbmurzgnumufulbgvppuibrklgbkqvz a
bmurzgmsa.vl a,gslbrogbmutgmvnugokabgbmuf,gkzgvbgouvab,gbroogbmulg upuz
bmugbuabrfklruagkpgbmurzgxkk gqroo;gvgbkkgaokqgbuabrfkltgvl 
slauvaklv.oujg.tgrbgbmutgzvbmuzgfvlrpuabgbmvbgbmutglunuzgoknu gbmufgbroo
 uv :gbmurzgorpugraglkbmrlxg.sbgbzks.ou;gbmurzg uvbmgpsoogkpgoknugvl 
ikszbuatjggVagpvbmuzagikliuvogbmurzgvppuibrklgpzkfgbmurzgimro zul,gqkful,
orcuqrau,gikliuvogbmurzagpzkfgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gbkgfvrlbvrlgvgfk uab
zuawuibjggBmragftabuztgraglkbgpkzgftgwvovbu;g‘bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugbmvb
bmutgaizvbimgbmufauonuagvl gbuvzgbmurzgmvrzjggRgqmrawuzgrlgv
qvrbrlx-qkfvl’agkzgauizubvzt’aguvz:g“Mkqgquzugbmut,gmkqg r gbmutgornu
bkxubmuz?”gRgvoqvtagmvnugbmvbgxkk gavtrlxgfgftgmuv :

ggggggggggggggg“Yvibvlbrsagfkuzulb,gesvugfrlsag koulbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgfvcugbmugfkabgv kgqmkgvzugouvabgikliuzlu j”g(Kz:)
ggggg“Bmutgfkszlgbmugfkzugkabulbvbrksaot,gbmugouaagbmutgxzrunuj”
gggggg--Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,grrjg77,gqzrbrlxgkpgXuzfvlrisaj]

Bmurzgqmrfwuzrlxgragkppularnugbkgbmugornrlxgvl gnvrlgbkgbmug uv jggQu
amkso gqroorlxotgxrnugbmufgouvnugbkgovsxmgvpbuzgqugvzug uv ,gwzknr u 
bmutgqroogafrougswklgsagqmroabgqugvzugvornujggRagrbglkbgulksxmgbkgfvcugv
fvlgzunrnugrlgwszugawrbu,gbmvbgamu,gqmkgawvbgrlgftgpviugqmroabgRgqvagrl
.urlx,gamvoogikfugbkgcraagftgpuubgqmulgRgvfglkgfkzu?ggRpgbmuzug.ugvlt
mklkszgrlgovfulbrlxgvgmsa.vl ,grbgklotgvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmkaugqmkgafrou 
swklgbmufgqmroabgbmutgmv gbmuf;goubgbmkaugqmkgquwbg szrlxgbmurzgornua
ovsxmgvbgbmurzg uvbma,gvagquoogksbqvz otgvagqrbmrljggBmuzupkzu,glunuz
zuxvz gbmkaug.os..uzu gutuagvl gbmvbgwrbrpsognkriu;giklar uzgmuz
 uwkzbfulb,gmuzgikfwouhrkl,gbmugwosfwluaagkpgmuzgimuucagsl uzgvoogbmkau
pkzfvognuroa;g‘bragbmuzugamugbvocagwovrlgPzulimjggBmuzugvzugpuqgqmkg k
lkbgful gswkl’b,gvl gmuvobmgragvgesvorbtgbmvbgivllkbgorujggBmvbgabvzimu 
vl giuzufklrksagikslbulvliugokkcaglkbgakgfsimg.vicgvagpkzqvz ,gvl gra
zvbmuzgrlbul u gbkgxubgvgluqgmsa.vl gbmvlgbkgovfulbgbmugko jggQmulgRgqva
vg.kt,gvgnuztg.uvsbrpsogvl gnrzbsksagov t,gqmkgragtubgornrlx,gbmugqr kq
kpgvgwzrliu,gqkzugakfuqmvbgfkzugkzlvfulbgrlgmuzg zuaagbmvlgkszgovqagkp
qr kqmkk gvookq,gvl g.urlxgzuwzkvimu gqrbmgrb,gamugfv ugvlaquzgbmvbgrb
qvag.uivsaugamugqvagzuakonu gbkgmvnuglkgfkzugoknugvppvrza,gvl gqkso 
lunuzgfvzztgvxvrlj

Rgmvnugmuzu,glkbgvbgvoog raaulbrlxgpzkfgkszgisabkfa,gfv ugimkriugkpgbmzuu
qkful,gqmkgmvnugvoakguhwzuaau gbmugsbfkabgkpgbmurzgxkk luaagvl gvppuibrkl
v.ksbgbmurzgmsa.vl a’g uvbma;gtubgvzugbmutguhvfwouagkpgvlkbmuzgcrl gbmvl
vzuglkqgfgsau,gvl gakgvsabuzugbmvbgbmutgqroogmvz otg.ug zvqlgrlbk
rfrbvbrklj

BmugtkslxuzgWorlt’gmv gluvzgvgmksaugkpgmragrlgRbvotgvglurxm.kszgqmkgqva
uhiuu rlxotgbkzfulbu gqrbmgiuzbvrlgsoiuzagrlgmragwzrnvbugwvzbajggMragqrpu
auurlxgmrfgakgoklxgbkgovlxsram,gulbzuvbu gbmvbgmugqkso gxrnugmuzgouvnugbk
auugvl gvbgouraszugbkgiklar uzgkpgbmugikl rbrklgkpgmrag rauvau,gvl gbmvb
amugqkso gpzuuotgbuoogmrfgqmvbgamugbmksxmbjggBmragwuzfraarklg.urlx
k.bvrlu ,gvl gamugmvnrlxgiszrksaotguhvfrlu gbmug.sarluaa,gpksl grb
rfwkaar.ougmugikso gunuzg.ugiszu ,gvl gbmvbgvoogmugmv gbkgmkwugpkzgkz
uhwuibgqvagvgxzuvbgqmrougbkgorlxuzgksbgvgwvrlpsogvl gfrauzv.ougorpu,gvl 
bmuzupkzu,gvagbmugfkabgaszugvl gaknuzurxlgzufu t,gzuakosbuotgv nrau gmrf
bkgcroogmrfauopjgg.sbgprl rlxgmrfgvgorbbougbul uzgvl g.vicqvz grlgakgzs u
vlgvbbufwb:g“ kglkbgbmrlc,gftgpzrul ,”gavr gamu,g“bmvbgbmugbkzfulbagRgauu
bmuugul szugvzuglkbgvagaular.ougbkgfugvagbkgbmtauop,gvl gbmvbgbkg uornuz
ftauopgpzkfgbmuf,gRgqrooglkbgftauopgfvcugsaugkpgbmugavfugzufu tgRgmvnu
wzuaizr.u gbkgbmuujggRgqroogviikfwvltgbmuugrlgbmugiszugvagRgmvnug klugrl
bmug rauvau;gpuvzglkbmrlx,g.sbg.uorunugbmvbgqugamvoogmvnugwouvaszugrl
bmragwvaavxugbmvbgragbkgpzuugsagpzkfgakgfvltgfrauzrua,gvl gqugqroogxk
mvwwrotgbkxubmuzj”ggQmrimgmvnrlxgavr ,gvl gzksau gswgmuzgmsa.vl ’a
ikszvxu,gamugzuakonu gbmvbgbmutgamkso gbmzkqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgrlbkgbmu
auvgksbgkpgvgqrl kqgbmvbgknuzokkcu grb,gvl gbmvbgamugfrxmbgfvrlbvrlgbk
bmugovabgbmugoktvogvl gnumufulbgvppuibrklgqmuzuqrbmgamugmv guf.zviu gmrf
 szrlxgmragorpu,gamugqkso gvoakgmvnugmrfg rugrlgmuzgvzfa;g.sbgouabgbmut
amkso gpvro,gvl gamkso gesrbgbmurzgmko grlgbmugpvoogbmzksxmgpuvz,gamu
bru gmuzauopgpvabgbkgmrfg.tgbmugqvrab,gvl gakgxvnugswgmuzgkqlgorpugbk
wzkiszugmuzgmsa.vl ’agzuwkaujggBmragqvagvgqkfvlgkpgfuvlgikl rbrkl;gvl ,
vfklxabgbmvbgiovaagkpgwukwou,g‘braglkgnuztgluqgbmrlxgbkgauugakfuguhvfwoua
kpgzvzugnrzbsu:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Uhbzufvgwuzgrooka
gggggggggggggggYsabrbrvguhiu ulagbuzzragnuabrxrvgpuirbj”

gggggggggg[“Ysabriu,gqmulgamugoupbgbmuguvzbm,gbkkcgmuzgovab
ggggggggggabuwagvfklxgbmufj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrjgg473j]

Bmugkbmuzgbqkgquzuglk.ougvl gzrim,gqmuzuguhvfwouagkpgnrzbsugvzugzvzuot
ok xu j

Vzzrv,gbmugqrpugkpgIvuirlvgWvubsa,gvgiklasovzgwuzakl,gqvagbmugfkbmuzgkp
vlkbmuzgVzzrv,gbmugqrpugkpgBmzvauvgWvubsa,gmugqmkaugnrzbsugqvagak
zulkqlu grlgbmugbrfugkpgLuzk,gvl g.tgbmragakl-rl-ovq,gbmugxzvl fkbmuzgkp
Pvllrv:gpkzgbmugzuauf.ovliugkpgbmuglvfuagkpgbmuaugfulgvl gqkful,gvl 
bmurzgpkzbslua,gmvnugou gbkgaunuzvogfrabvcuajggBmragprzabgVzzrv,gmuz
msa.vl gIvuirlvgWvubsa,gmvnrlxg.uulgbvculgwzrakluzg.tgakfugkpgbmugUfwuzkz
Iovs rsa’gwukwou,gvpbuzgAizr.klrvlsa’g upuvb,gqmkaugwvzbtgmugmv guf.zviu 
rlgbmugqvz,g.uxxu gkpgbmkaugqmkgquzugbkgivzztgmrfgwzrakluzgbkgZkfu,gbmvb
bmutgqkso gbvcugmuzgrlbkgbmurzgamrw,gqmuzugamugqkso g.ugkpgfsimgouaa
imvzxugvl gbzks.ougbkgbmufgbmvlgvgxzuvbgfvltgwuzaklagbmutgfsabgkbmuzqrau
mvnugbkgvbbul gmuzgmsa.vl ,gvl gbmvbgamugvoklugqkso gsl uzbvcugbkgauznu
mrfgrlgmragimvf.uz,gmragcrbimul,gvl gvoogkbmuzgkppriuajggBmutgzupsau ,
qmuzuswklgamugwsbgmuzauopgrlbkgvgpramuz-.kvbgamugmrzu gklgbmugawkb,gvl 
rlgbmvbgfvlluzgpkookqu gmrfgpzkfgAiovnklrvjggQmulgamugmv gikfugbkgZkfu,
Yslrv,gbmugqr kqgkpgAizr.klrvlsa,gmvnrlxgklug vt,gpzkfgbmugzuauf.ovliugkp
bmurzgpkzbslu,gviikabu gmuzgrlgbmugUfwuzkz’agwzuauliu;gamugzs uot
zuwsoau gmuzgqrbmgbmuaugqkz a,g“R,”gavr gamu,g“awuvcgbkgbmuu,gkzgxrnuguvz
bkgvltgbmrlxgbmksgavtuab!gbkgbmuugrlgqmkaugovwgAizr.klrvlsagqvagaovrl,
vl gbmksgvzbgtubgvornu!”ggBmuaugqkz a,gqrbmgaunuzvogkbmuzgarxla,gxvnugmuz
pzrul agbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgamugqkso gsl ks.bu otg uawvbimgmuzauop,
rfwvbrulbgkpgaswwkzbrlxgmuzgmsa.vl ’agfrapkzbslujggVl gBmzvauv,gmuz
akl-rl-ovq,g.uauuimrlxgmuzglkbgbkgbmzkqgvqvtgmuzauop,gvl gavtrlxgbkgmuz,
“Qmvb!grpgRgamkso gzslgbmugavfugpkzbslugbmvbgIvuirlvgmvag klu,gqkso gtks
bmvbgtkszg vsxmbuz,gftgqrpu,gamkso g kgbmugavfu?”--“Qkso gR?”ggzuworu 
amu,g“tua,gtua,gRgqkso :grpgamugmv gornu gvagoklx,gvl grlgvagxkk 
sl uzabvl rlxgqrbmgbmuugvagRgmvnug klu,gqrbmgftgmsa.vl j”ggBmuaugvlaquza
fv ugbmufgfkzugivzupsogkpgmuz,gvl gbkgmvnugvgfkzugqvbimpsogutugbkgmuz
wzkiuu rlxajggKlug vt,gmvnrlxgavr gbkgbmkaugqmkgokkcu gbkgmuz:g“Bragbk
fsimgwszwkaugbmvbgtksgbvcugvoogbmragwvrlagbkgwzunulbgfu;gtksgfvtgrl uu 
fvcugfug rugvlgroog uvbm,g.sbgbkgcuuwgfugpzkfg trlxgraglkbgrlgtksz
wkquz”;gamugrlgvgas  ulgwmzuldtgabvzbu gpzkfgvgimvrzgqmuzuklgamugavb,gvl 
qrbmgvoogmuzgpkziug vamu gmuzgmuv gvxvrlabgbmugqvoo,g.tgqmrimg.okqg.urlx
ovr gpovbgrlgvgaqkkl,gvl gnuztgfsimgqksl u ,gvpbuzgbmutgmv gvxvrlgqrbm
xzuvbgv kg.zksxmbgmuzgbkgmuzauop:g“Rgbko gtks,”gavr gamu,g“bmvbgrpgtks
zupsau gfugakfuguvatgqvtgkpg trlx,gRgamkso gprl gksbgvlkbmuz,gmkqgwvrlpso
akunuzj”ggBmugikliosarklgkpgakgv frzv.ougvgnrzbsugqvagbmra:gmuzgmsa.vl 
Wvubsa,glkbgmvnrlxgzuakosbrklgulksxmgkpgmragkqlgbkg uawvbimgmrfauop,gva
mugqvag.tgbmugufwuzkz’agizsuobtgulykrlu ,gklug vt,gvfklxabgkbmuza,gvpbuz
mvnrlxgprzabgufwoktu gvoogbmugzuvaklagvl guhmkzbvbrklagqmrimgamugbmksxmb
fkabgwzunvoulbgbkgwuzasv ugmrfgbkgrb,gamugalvbimu gbmugwkrxlvz gmugqkzu
pzkfgmragar u,gvl gmko rlxgrbgzuv tgrlgmuzgmvl ,gpkzgbmugikliosarklgkp
muzgv fklrbrkla;g“ kgbmsa,gWvubsa,”gavr gamu,gvl grlgbmugavfugrlabvlb
xrnrlxgmuzauopgvgfkzbvogabv.grlgbmug.zuvab,gvl gbmulg zvqrlxgrbgksbgkp
bmugqksl ,gwzuaulbu grbgbkgmrf,gul rlxgmuzgorpugqrbmgbmraglk.ou,
xuluzksa,gvl grffkzbvogavtrlx,g“Wvubu,glklg koub”--mvnrlxgbrfugbk
wzklksliuglkgfkzug.sbgbmkaugbmzuuglunuz-bk-.u-pkzxkbbulgqkz a:g“Wvubsa,
rbgraglkbgwvrlpsoj”

gggggggggggggg“Ivabvgaskgxov rsfgisfgbzv uzubgVzzrvgWvubk,
gggggggggggggggEsuzlg ugnraiuzr.sagbzvhuzvbgrwavgasra
gggggggggggggggArgesvgpr ua,gnsolsagesk gpuirglklg koub,grlesrb,
gggggggggggggggAu gesk gbkgpvirua,gr gfrmr,gWvubu,g koubj”

ggggg[“QmulgbmugimvabugVzzrvgxvnugbkgWkubsagbmugzuucrlxgaqkz gamugmv 
ggggg zvqlgpzkfgmuzg.zuvab,g‘Rpgtksg.uorunugfu,’gamugavr ,g‘Wvubsa,gbmu
gggggqksl gRgmvnugfv ugmszbaglkb,g.sbg‘bragbmvbgqmrimgbmksgqrobgfvcugbmvb
gggggmszbagfuj’”---Fvzbrvo,grjg14j]

Bmugvibrklgqvagfsimgfkzuglk.ougrlgrbauop,gvl gkpgvg.zvnuzgaulaugbmvlgbmu
wkubguhwzuaau grb:gpkzgamugqvagakgpvzgpzkfg.urlxg ubuzzu g.tgbmugbmksxmb
kpgmuzgmsa.vl ’agqksl gvl g uvbmgvl gmuzgkql,gbmvbgamugmv g.uulgbmurz
wzkfkbzuaagvl gv nrauz:g.sbgmvnrlxgwuzpkzfu gbmragmrxmgvl gikszvxuksa
ulbuzwzraugpkzgmuzgmsa.vl ’agklotgiklnulruliu,gamugmv gunulgrlgbmugovab
xvawgkpgmuzgorpuglkgkbmuzgikliuzlg.sbgpkzgmrf,gvl gkpg rawkaauaarlxgmrf
kpgbmugpuvzgkpg trlxgqrbmgmuzjggWvubsagwzuaulbotgabzsicgmrfauopgbkgbmu
muvzbgqrbmgbmugavfugquvwkl,gvamvfu ,gRgaswwkau,gbkgmvnugabkk grlgluu gkp
akg uvzgvl gwzuirksagvlguhvfwouj

WkfwurvgWvsorlv,gvgtkslxgvl gnuztglk.ougZkfvlgov t,gmv gfvzzru gAuluivgrl
mraguhbzufugko gvxujggLuzk,gmragprlugwswro,gaulbgmragxsvz agbkgmrfgbk
 ulksliugbmugaulbuliugkpg uvbm,gqmrimgqvagwuzpkzfu gvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:
QmulgbmugZkfvlgufwuzkzagkpgbmkaugbrfuagmv gikl uflu gvltgfvlgkpgesvorbt,
bmutgaulbgbkgmrfg.tgbmurzgkppriuzagbkgimkkaugqmvbg uvbmgmugqkso ,gvl gbk
uhuisbugrbgqrbmrlgasimgkzgasimgvgbrfu,gqmrimgqvagorfrbu ,gviikz rlxgbk
bmug uxzuugkpgbmurzgrl rxlvbrkl,gbkgvgamkzbuzgkzgvgoklxuzgzuawrbu,gbmvb
bmutgfrxmbgbmuzurlgmvnug.ubbuzgouraszugbkg rawkaugbmurzgvppvrza,gvl 
akfubrfuag uwzrnrlxgbmufgkpgbmugfuvlagkpg krlxgrbg.tgbmugamkzbluaagkpgbmu
brfu;gvl grpgbmugikl uflu gauufu gslqroorlxgbkgas.frbgbkgbmugkz uz,gbmut
mv gwukwougzuv tgvbgmvl gbkguhuisbugrbgurbmuzg.tgisbbrlxgbmugnurlagkpgbmu
vzfagvl gouxa,gkzg.tgikfwuoorlxgbmufg.tgpkziugbkgaqvookqgvg zvsxmbgkp
wkrakljgg.sbgwuzaklagkpgmklkszgqkso glkbgv.r ugbmragluiuaarbt,g.sbgfv u
saugkpgbmurzgkqlgwmtarirvlagvl gaszxuklagpkzgbmragwszwkaujggAuluiv,gqrbm
vgivofgvl gabuv tgikslbulvliu,gmuvz gbmurzgimvzxu,gvl gwzuaulbotgivoou 
pkzgwvwuzgbkgqzrbugmragqroo,gqmrimg.urlxg.tgbmugivwbvrlgzupsau ,gmu
bszlu gmrfauopgbkqvz agmragpzrul a,gavtrlxgbkgbmuf,g“ArliugRgivllkbgouvnu
tksgvltgkbmuzgviclkqou xfulbgkpgbmugk.orxvbrklgRgmvnugbkgtks,gRgouvnugtks
vbgouvabgbmug.uabgbmrlxgRgmvnu,glvfuot,gbmugrfvxugkpgftgorpugvl gfvlluza,
qmrimgRgulbzuvbgtksgbkgcuuwgrlgfufkztgkpgfu,gbmvbg.tgakg krlxgtksgfvt
viesrzugbmugxokztgkpgarliuzugvl gzuvogpzrul aj”ggVl gbmuzugqrbmvo,gklu
qmrougvwwuvarlxgbmugakzzkqgmugavqgrlgbmufgqrbmgxulbougqkz a,gvl 
wzuaulbotgzvrarlxgmragnkriugbkgzuwzknugbmuf:g“Qmvb,”gavr gmu,g“vzug.uikfu
kpgvoogkszg.zvnugwmrokakwmrivogwzuiuwba?gQmvbgvzug.uikfugkpgvoogbmu
wzknrarklagqugmvnugakgfvltgtuvzagovr gswgvxvrlabgbmugviir ulbagkp
pkzbslu?gRagLuzk’agizsuobtgslclkqlgbkgsa?ggQmvbgikso gquguhwuibgpzkfgmrf
qmkgmv gfsz uzu gmragfkbmuzgvl gmrag.zkbmuz,g.sbgbmvbgmugamkso gwsbgmra
bsbkzgbkg uvbmgqmkgmv g.zksxmbgmrfgsw?”ggVpbuzgmvnrlxgawkculgbmuaugqkz a
rlgxuluzvo,gmugbszlu gmrfauopgbkqvz agmragqrpu,gvl guf.zvirlxgmuzgpvabgrl
mragvzfa,gva,gmuzgmuvzbgvl gabzulxbmgpvrorlxgmuz,gamugqvagzuv tgbkgarlc
 kqlgqrbmgxzrup,gmug.uxxu gkpgmuz,gpkzgmragavcu,gbkg.uvzgbmragviir ulb
qrbmgvgorbbougfkzugwvbruliu,gbuoorlxgmuz,gbmvbglkqgbmugmkszgqvagikfu
qmuzurlgmugqvagbkgamkq,glkbg.tgvzxsfulbgvl g raikszau,g.sbguppuib,gbmu
pzsrbgmugmv gviesrzu g.tgmragabs rua,gvl gbmvbgmugzuvootguf.zviu gmra
 uvbm,glkbgklotgqrbmksbgxzrup,g.sbgfkzuknuzgqrbmgyktjgg“Qmuzupkzu,gft
 uvzuab,”gavr gmu,g“ kglkbg ramklkszgrbgqrbmgbmtgbuvza,gbmvbgrbgfvtglkb
auufgvagrpgbmksgoknuabgbmtauopgfkzugbmvlgftgzuwsbvbrkljggFk uzvbugbmt
xzrup,gvl gikfpkzbgbmtauopgrlgbmugclkqou xugbmksgmvabgmv gkpgfugvl gft
vibrkla,gouv rlxgbmugzufvrl uzgkpgbmtgorpugrlgbmugavfugnrzbsksagfvlluz
bmksgmvabgmrbmuzbkg kluj”ggBkgqmrimgWvsorlv,gmvnrlxgvgorbbougzuiknuzu 
muzgawrzrba,gvl gqvzfu gbmugfvxlvlrfrbtgkpgmuzgikszvxugqrbmgvgfkab
xuluzksagvppuibrkl,gzuworu ,--“Lk,gAuluiv,”gavr gamu,g“Rgvfglkbgvgqkfvl
bkgasppuzgtksgbkgxkgvoklugrlgasimgvgluiuaarbt:gRgqrooglkbgmvnugtksgbmrlc
bmvbgbmugnrzbsksaguhvfwouagkpgtkszgorpugmvnuglkbgbvsxmbgfugmkqgbkg ru;
vl gqmulgivlgRgunuzg.ubbuzgkzgfkzugprbbrlxotg kgrb,gkzgfkzugbkgftgkql
 uarzu,gbmvlgqrbmgtks?gvl gbmuzupkzugvaaszugtkszauopgRgqroogxkgvoklxgqrbm
tksj”ggBmulgAuluiv,gbvcrlxgbmraglk.ougvl gxuluzksagzuakosbrklgkpgmragqrpu
fgxkk gwvzb,gvl gvoakgqroorlxgbkgpzuugmrfauopgpzkfgbmugpuvzgkpgouvnrlx
muzguhwkau gbkgbmugizsuobtgkpgmragulufruagvpbuzgmrag uvbm:g“Rgmvnu,
Wvsorlv,”gavr gmu,g“rlabzsibu gbmuugrlgqmvbgqkso gauznugbmuugmvwwrotgbk
ornu;g.sbgbmksgfkzugiknubuab,gRgauu,gbmugmklkszgkpg trlx:grlgbzsbm,
Rgqrooglkbgxzs xugrbgbmuu;gbmugiklabvlitgvl gzuakosbrklgrlgkszgikffklgul 
vzugbmugavfu,g.sbgbmug.uvsbtgvl gxokztgkpgbmtgwvzbgvzugfsimgxzuvbuzj”
gQmrimg.urlxgavr ,gbmugaszxukla,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gkwulu gbmugnurlagkp
.kbmgbmurzgvzfa,g.sbgvagbmkaugkpgAuluivgquzugfkzugamzslcgsw,gvagquoogqrbm
vxugvagv.abrluliu,gfv ugmrag.okk gpokqgbkkgaokqot,gmugfkzuknuzgikffvl u 
bmufgbkgkwulgbmugnurlagkpgmragbmrxma;gvl gouabgbmugbkzfulbagmugul szu 
frxmbgwruziugmragqrpu’agmuvzb,gvl gvoakgbkgpzuugmrfauopgpzkfgbmu
vpporibrklgkpgauurlxgmuzgrlgakgav gvgikl rbrkl,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgbvculgvgnuzt
vppuibrklvbugouvnugkpgmuz,gmugulbzuvbu gamugqkso gasppuzgbmufgbkgivzzt
muzgrlbkgmuzgimvf.uz,gqmrimgbmutgviikz rlxotg r jgg.sbgvoogbmuau
rlirarklag.urlxglkbgtubgulksxmgbkgfvcugmrfg ru,gmugikffvl u gAbvbrsa
Vllusa,gmragwmtarirvl,gbkgxrnugmrfgvg zvsxmbgkpgwkrakl,gqmrimgmv glkb
fsimg.ubbuzguppuib;gpkzg.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugquvcluaagvl giko luaagkpgmra
orf.a,grbgikso glkbgvzzrnugvbgmragmuvzbjggQmuzupkzugbmutgquzugpkziu gbk
aswuzv  gvgnuztgmkbg.vbm,gvl gbmul,gpuuorlxgmragul gvwwzkvim,gqmroabgmu
mv g.zuvbmgmugiklbrlsu guhiuooulbg raikszauagswklgbmugas.yuibgkpgmra
wzuaulbgikl rbrkl,gqmrimgbmugauizubvzruagqzkbug kqlgakgoklxgvagbmutgikso 
muvzgmragnkriu,gvl gmragovabgqkz agquzugoklxgvpbuzgrlgmrxmgmklkszgvl 
uabuufgvfklxabgful,gvl grbgragvgxzuvbgokaagbkgsagbmvbgbmutgmvnuglkbgikfu
 kqlgbkgkszgbrfuajggBmul,gpuuorlxgbmugovabgwvlxagkpg uvbm,gqrbmgbmu
.okk tgqvbuzgkpgbmug.vbmgmug.vbmu gmragmuv ,gavtrlx:g“BmragqvbuzgR
 u rivbugbkgYswrbuzgbmug uornuzuzj”ggLuzk,g.urlxgwzuaulbotgrlpkzfu gkp
voogbmra,gpuvzrlxgouabgbmug uvbmgkpgWvsorlv,gqmkgqvagklugkpgbmug.uab-.kzl
ov ruagkpgZkfu,gvl gvxvrlabgqmkfgmugmv glkgwvzbrisovzgslcrl luaa,gamkso 
bszlgbkgmragzuwzkvim,gaulbgkz uzagrlgvoogmvabugbkg.rl gswgmuzgqksl a,
qmrimgmuzgvbbul vlbag r gqrbmksbgmuzgclkqou xu,gamug.urlxgvozuv tgmvop
 uv ,gvl gqrbmksbgvoogfvlluzgkpgaulaujggBmsa,gbmksxmgamugornu giklbzvzt
bkgmuzgkqlg uarxl,grbgqvagnuztgmklkszv.ot,gvl g.uprbbrlxgmuzgkqlgnrzbsu,
muzgwvougikfwouhrklgunuzgvpbuzgfvlrpuabrlxgmkqgfsimgorpugmv gzslgpzkfgmuz
nurlaj

Bmuaugvzugftgbmzuugnuztgbzsugabkzrua,gqmrimgRgprl gvagulbuzbvrlrlxgvl gva
bzvxrigvagvltgkpgbmkaugqugfvcugksbgkpgkszgkqlgmuv agqmuzuqrbmgbkgvfsau
bmugikffklgwukwou;gvl gRgqkl uzgbmvbgbmutgqmkgvzugv  ribu gbkgasim
zuovbrkla,g kglkbgzvbmuzgisoogksbgbulgbmksavl gnuztgprlugabkzrua,gqmrim
vzugbkg.ugpksl grlg.kkca,gbmvbgqkso gavnugbmufgbmugbzks.ougkpgrlnulbrkl,
vl g.ugfkzugsaupsogvl g rnuzbrlx;gvl gmugqmkgqkso gfvcugvgqmkougvl 
iklluibu g.k tgkpgbmufgqkso gluu gbkgv  glkbmrlxgkpgmragkql,g.sbgbmu
iklluibrklgklot,gvagrbgquzugbmugako uzgkpgvlkbmuzgfubvo;gvl gfrxmbg.t
bmragfuvlaguf.k tgvgxzuvbgfvltgbzsugunulbagkpgvoogakzba,g rawkarlxgvl 
 rnuzarptrlxgbmufgviikz rlxgvagbmug.uvsbtgkpgbmugqkzcgamkso gzuesrzu,
vpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz,gvofkab,gvagKnr gmvagfv ugswgmragFubvfkzwmkauagkp
bmugrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgnvzrksagpv.ouaj

Rlgbmugovabgikswou,gbmragra,gfkzuknuz,gqkzbmtgkpgiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvb
Wvsorlvgnkoslbvzrotgkppuzu gbkgokaugmuzgorpugpkzgbmugoknugkpgmuzgmsa.vl ,
vl gbmvbgmuzgmsa.vl gmv gpkzfuzotgvoakgpkz.kzlugbkg rugpkzgbmugoknugkp
muzjggQugfvtgbmrlcgbmuzugraglkgysabgikslbuzwkraugrlgbmraguhimvlxu;g.sb,
viikz rlxgbkgmragabkrivogmsfksz,gRgpvlitgmugbmksxmbgmugmv g klugvagfsim
pkzgmuz,grlgwzkoklxrlxgmragorpugswklgmuzgviikslb,gvagrpgmugmv g ru gpkz
muzjggRlgklugkpgmragoubbuzagbkgOsirorsa,gvpbuzgmugmvagxrnulgmrfgbk
sl uzabvl gbmvb,g.urlxgaurdu gqrbmgvlgvxsugrlgZkfu,gmugwzuaulbotgbkkc
ikvimgbkgxkgbkgvgmksaugmugmv grlgbmugikslbzt,giklbzvztgbkgmragqrpu’a
kwrlrkl,gqmkgqkso gmvnugmrfgabvt,gvl gbmvbgmugmv gbko gmuzgbmvbgbmugvxsu
mugqvagaurdu gqrbmgqvaglkbgvgpunuzgkpgbmug.k tg.sbgkpgbmugwoviu,grb
pkookqagbmsa:g“Amugoubgfugxk,”gavtagmu,g“xrnrlxgfugvgabzribgimvzxugkpgft
muvobmjggLkqgR,gqmkgclkqgbmvbgmuzgorpugragrlnkonu grlgfrlu,g.uxrlgbkgfvcu
fsimgkpgftauop,gbmvbgRgfvtgwzuauznugmuzjggVl gRgokaugbmugwzrnrouxugftgvxu
mvagxrnulgfu,gkpg.urlxgfkzugiklabvlbgvl gzuakosbugrlgfvltgbmrlxa,gqmulgR
ivoogbkgfrl gbmvbgrlgbmragko gpuookqgbmuzugragvgtkslxgxrzogqmkgra
rlbuzuabu grlgmragmuvobmjggVl garliugRgivllkbgwuzasv ugmuzgbkgoknugfu
fkzugikszvxuksaot,gamugfvcuagfugfkzugakorirbksaotgoknugftauop:gpkzgqu
fsabgvookqgakfubmrlxgbkgmkluabgvppuibrkla,gvl ,gakfubrfua,gbmksxm
kiivarklagrfwkzbslugsagbkgbmugiklbzvzt,gqugfsabgivoog.vicgorpu,gunul
bmksxmgrbg.ugqrbmgbkzfulb:gqugfsabgmko gbmugaksogpvabgrlgkszgbuubm,garliu
bmugzsougkpgornrlx,gvfklxabgxkk gful,graglkbgakgoklxgvagbmutgwouvau,g.sb
vagoklxgvagbmutgksxmbjggMugbmvbgoknuaglkbgmragqrpuglkzgmragpzrul gakgquoo
vagbkgwzkoklxgmragorpugpkzgbmuf,g.sbgqroogk.abrlvbuotg ru,gragbkk
 uorivbugvl gbkkguppufrlvbu:gbmugaksogfsabgrfwkaugbmragswklgrbauop,gqmul
bmugsbrorbtgkpgkszgpzrul agakgzuesrzua;gqugfsabgakfubrfuagoul gkszauonua
bkgkszgpzrul a,gvl gqmulgqugqkso g rugpkzgkszauonuagfsabg.zuvcgbmvb
zuakosbrklgpkzgbmufjgg‘Bragvgbuabrfkltgkpgxzvl uszgkpgikszvxugbkgzubszl
bkgorpugpkzgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgvlkbmuz,gvagfvltguhiuooulbgwuzaklagmvnu
 klu:gvl g‘bragvgfvzcgkpgarlxsovzgxkk glvbszugbkgwzuauznugko gvxug(kp
qmrimgbmugxzuvbuabgiklnulruliugragbmugrl rppuzuliugvagbkgrbag szvbrkl,
vl gvgfkzugabksbgvl g ra vrlpsogsaugkpgorpu),gqmulgvgfvlgwuziurnuagbmvb
bmragkppriugragwouvarlx,gvxzuuv.ou,gvl gsaupsogbkgakfugwuzaklg.tgqmkfgmu
ragnuztgfsimg.uoknu jggVl gvgfvlgzuvwag.tgrbgvgnuztgwouvarlxgzuqvz ;gpkz
qmvbgivlg.ugfkzug uorxmbpsogbmvlgbkg.ugakg uvzgbkgmragqrpu,gvagswklgmuz
viikslbgmugamvoog.uikfug uvzuzgbkgmrfauop?ggBmsagmvagftgWvsorlvgokv u gfu
lkbgklotgqrbmgmuzgpuvza,g.sbgftgkql;grbgmvaglkbg.uulgaspprirulbgbk
iklar uzgmkqgzuakosbuotgRgikso g ru,g.sbgRgmvnugvoakgiklar uzu gmkq
rzzuakosbuotgamugqkso g.uvzgftg uvbmjggRgvfgulpkziu gbkgornu,gvl 
akfubrfuagbkgornugrlgfvxlvlrfrbtj”ggBmuaugvzugmragkqlgqkz a,gvaguhiuooulb
vagbmutgunuztqmuzugvzuj




IMVWBUZgHHHNR

KPgBMUgFKABgUHIUOOULBgFUL

RpgRgamkso g.ugvacu gftgimkriugvfklxgvoogbmugfulgqmkgmvnugikfugbkgft
clkqou xu,gRgamkso gfvcugvlaquz,gbmvbgfubmrlcagRgprl gbmzuugfkzu
uhiuooulbgbmvlgvoogbmugzuabj

KlugkpgbmufgMkfuz:glkbgbmvbgVzrabkbougvl gNvzzk,gpkzguhvfwou,gquzuglkb,
wuzv nulbszu,gvagouvzlu gvagmu;glkzgbmvbgwkaar.otgNrzxrogqvaglkbguesvogbk
mrfgrlgmragkqlgvzb,gqmrimgRgouvnugbkg.ug ubuzfrlu g.tgasimgvagclkqgbmuf
.kbmjggRgqmk,gpkzgftgwvzb,gsl uzabvl g.sbgklugkpgbmuf,givlgklotgavtgbmra,
viikz rlxgbkgftgwkkzgbvoulb,gbmvbgRg kglkbg.uorunugbmugFsauagbmufauonua
ikso gunuzgxkg.utkl gbmugZkfvl:

gggggggggggggg“Bvougpvirbgivzfulg kibvgbuabs rlu,gesvou
gggggggggggggggItlbmrsagrfwkarbragbufwuzvbgvzbrisora:”

ggggg[“Mugwovtagklgmragouvzlu gosbugvgnuzaugasimgvagItlbmrvlgVwkook
gggggfk sovbuagqrbmgmragrfwkau gprlxuzaj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrjg34,g79j]

vl gtubgrlgbmragys xfulbgqugvzuglkbgbkgpkzxubgbmvbgrbgragimrupotgpzkf
MkfuzgbmvbgNrzxrog uzrnuagmraguhiuoouliu,gbmvbgmugragxsr ugvl gbuvimuz;
vl gbmvbgklugbksimgkpgbmugRorv gmvagaswworu gmrfgqrbmg.k tgvl gfvbbuzgksb
kpgqmrimgbkgikfwkaugmragxzuvbgvl g rnrlugVUlur jggRg kglkbgzuicklgswkl
bmvb,g.sbgfrhgaunuzvogkbmuzgirzisfabvliuagbmvbgzul uzgbkgfugbmragwkub
v frzv.ou,gunulgvagrbgquzugv.knugmsfvlgikl rbrkljggVl ,grlgbzsbm,gRgkpbul
qkl uzgbmvbgmugqmkgmvagwzk siu ,gvl ,g.tgmragvsbmkzrbt,gxrnulgzuwsbvbrkl
rlgbmugqkzo gbkgakgfvltg urbrua,gqvaglkbg urpru gmrfauopjgg.urlxg.orl 
vl gwkkz,gornrlxg.upkzugbmugairuliuagquzugzu siu grlbkgzsougvl giuzbvrl
k.auznvbrkl,gmugqvagakgquoogviesvrlbu gqrbmgbmuf,gbmvbgvoogbmkaugqmkgmvnu
arliugbvculgswklgbmufgbkguabv.oramgxknuzlfulba,gbkgivzztgklgqvza,gvl gbk
qzrbugurbmuzgkpgzuorxrklgkzgwmrokakwmt,gkpgqmvbgauibgakunuz,gkzgkpgbmu
vzba,gmvnugfv ugsaugkpgmrfgvagkpgvgfkabgwuzpuibgrlabzsibkzgrlgbmu
clkqou xugkpgvoogbmrlxa,gvl gkpgmrag.kkcagvagkpgvgbzuvasztgkpgvoogakzba
kpgouvzlrlx:

ggggggggg“Esr,gesr garbgwsoizsf,gesr gbszwu,gesr gsbrou,gesr glkl,
ggggggggggWovlrsagvigfuorsagImztarwwkgubgIzvlbkzug rirb:”

ggggg[“Qmkgbuooagsagqmvbgragxkk ,gqmvbgunro,gqmvbgsaupso,gqmvbglkb,gfkzu
gggggiouvzotgvl g.ubbuzgbmvlgImztarwwsagvl gIzvlbkz?”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg2,g3j]

vl gvagbmragkbmuzgavta,

ggggggggggggggggggg“Vgesk,giusgpklbugwuzullr,
ggggggggggggggggggggNvbsfgWruzrragkzvgzrxvlbszgvesra”

ggggg[“Pzkfgqmrim,gvagpzkfgvgwuzullrvogawzrlx,gbmugorwagkpgbmugwkuba
gggggvzugfkrabulu g.tgWruzrvlgqvbuzaj”--Knr ,gVfktj,grrrjg9,g25j]

vl gbmugkbmuz,

gggggggggggggg“V  ugMuoriklrv sfgikfrbua,geskzsfgslsagMkfuzsa
gggggggggggggggAiuwbzvgwkbrbsa;”

ggggg[“V  gbmugikfwvlrklagkpgbmugFsaua,gqmkaugaiuwbzugMkfuzgmvagakouot
gggggk.bvrlu j”--Osizubrsa,grrrjgg1050j]

vl gbmugkbmuz:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Isysaesuguhgkzugwzkpsaka
gggggggggggggggKflragwkabuzrbvagovbriuagrlgivzfrlvg shrb,
gggggggggggggggVflufesugrlgbulsuagvsavguabg u siuzugzrnkaj
gggggggggggggggSlrsagpkuisl vg.klraj”

ggggg[“Pzkfgqmkaugfksbmgvoogwkabuzrbtgmvag zvqlgksbgikwrksagabzuvfagkp
gggggnuzau,gvl gmvagfv ug.ko gbkgbszlgbmugfrxmbtgzrnuzgrlbkgrbagorbbou
gggggzrnsouba,gpuzbrougrlgbmugwzkwuzbtgkpgklugfvlj”
gggggg--Fvlrorsa,gVabtklj,grrjg8j]

‘Bragiklbzvztgbkgbmugkz uzgkpglvbszugbmvbgmugmvagfv ugbmugfkabguhiuooulb
wzk sibrklgbmvbgivlgwkaar.otg.u;gpkzgbmugkz rlvztg.rzbmgkpgbmrlxagra
rfwuzpuib;gbmutgbmzrnugvl gxvbmuzgabzulxbmg.tgxzkqrlx,gqmuzuvagmu
zul uzu gbmugrlpvlitgkpgwkuatgvl gaunuzvogkbmuzgairuliuagfvbszu,gwuzpuib,
vl gviikfworamu gvbgprzabjggVl gpkzgbmragzuvaklgmugfvtg.ugivoou gbmu
przabgvl gbmugovabgkpgbmugwkuba,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugprlugbuabrfklt
vlbresrbtgmvagoupbgsagkpgmrf,g“bmvbgvagbmuzugqvaglklug.upkzugmrfgqmkfgmu
ikso grfrbvbu,gakgbmuzugmvag.uulglklugarliugbmvbgikso grfrbvbugmrfj”
gMragqkz a,gviikz rlxgbkgVzrabkbou,gvzugbmugklotgqkz agbmvbgmvnugfkbrkl
vl gvibrkl,gbmugklotgas.abvlbrvogqkz ajggVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvb,gmvnrlx
pksl gvgzrimgiv.rlubgvfklxabg vzrsa’gawkroa,gxvnugkz uzgrbgamkso g.u
zuauznu gpkzgmrfgbkgcuuwgmragMkfuzgrl,gavtrlx:gbmvbgmugqvagbmug.uabgvl 
fkabgpvrbmpsogikslauookzgmugmv grlgmragfrorbvztgvppvrzajggPkzgbmugavfu
zuvaklgrbgqvagbmvbgIoukfulua,gbmugaklgkpgVlvhvl zr va,gavr gbmvbgmugqva
bmugwkubgkpgbmugOviu vufklrvla,gpkzgbmvbgmugqvagvlguhiuooulbgfvabuzgpkz
bmug rairworlugkpgqvzjggBmragarlxsovzgvl gwvzbrisovzgikfful vbrklgragvoak
oupbgkpgmrfgrlgbmugys xfulbgkpgWosbvzim,gbmvbgmugragbmugklotgvsbmkzgrl
bmugqkzo gbmvbglunuzgxosbbu glkzg raxsabu gmragzuv uza,gwzuaulbrlx
mrfauopgvoqvtagvlkbmuzgbmrlx,gvl gvoqvtagpokszramrlxgrlgakfugluqgxzviuj
BmvbgqvlbklgVoir.rv ua,gmvnrlxgvacu gklu,gqmkgwzubul u gbkgouvzlrlx,gpkz
vg.kkcgkpgMkfuz,gxvnugmrfgvg.khgkpgbmuguvzg.uivsaugmugmv glklu,ggqmrimgmu
bmksxmbgvagaivl voksagvagqugamkso grpgqugpksl gklugkpgkszgwzruabagqrbmksb
vg.zunrvztjggHulkwmvluagikfwovrlu gklug vtgbkgMruzk,gbmugbtzvlbgkp
Atzvisau,gbmvbgmugqvagakgwkkzgmugmv glkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgfvrlbvrlgbqk
auznvlbajgg“Qmvb!”gzuworu gmu,g“Mkfuz,gqmkgqvagfsimgwkkzuzgbmvlgbmks
vzb,gcuuwagv.knugbulgbmksavl ,gbmksxmgmugrag uv j”ggQmvbg r gWvlvubrsa
ouvnugslavr gqmulgmugivoou gWovbkgbmugMkfuzgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuza?gg.uar ua
qmvbgxokztgivlg.ugikfwvzu gbkgmra?ggLkbmrlxgragakgpzuesulbgrlgful’a
fksbmagvagmraglvfugvl gqkzca,glkbmrlxgakgclkqlgvl gzuiurnu gvagBzkt,
Muoul,gvl gbmugqvzgv.ksbgmuz,gqmulgwuzmvwagbmuzugqvaglunuzgvltgasim
bmrlxjggKszgimro zulgvzugabroogivoou g.tglvfuagbmvbgmugrlnulbu gv.knu
bmzuugbmksavl gtuvzagvxk;gqmkg kuaglkbgclkqgMuibkzgvl gVimrooua?ggLkb
klotgakfugwvzbrisovzgpvfrorua,g.sbgfkabglvbrklagvoakgauucgbmurzgkzrxrlgrl
mragrlnulbrklajggFkmvffu ,gbmugauikl gkpgbmvbglvfu,gufwuzkzgkpgbmugBszca,
qzrbrlxgbkgkszgWkwugWrsagRRj,g“Rgvfgvabklramu ,”gavtagmu,g“bmvbgbmu
Rbvorvlagamkso gvwwuvzgvxvrlabgfu,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgqugmvnugkszgikffkl
 uaiulbgpzkfgbmugBzkyvla,gvl gbmvbgrbgikliuzlagfugvagquoogvagrbg kuagbmuf
bkgzunulxugbmug.okk gkpgMuibkzgswklgbmugXzuuca,gqmkfgbmutgikslbulvliu
vxvrlabgfuj”ggRagrbglkbgvglk.ougpvziugqmuzurlgcrlxa,gzuws.oria,gvl 
ufwuzkzagmvnugakgfvltgvxuagwovtu gbmurzgwvzba,gvl gbkgqmrimgbmugnvab
slrnuzaugauznuagpkzgvgbmuvbzu?ggAunulgXzuirvlgirbruagiklbul u gpkzgmra
.rzbm,gakgfsimgmklkszgunulgmragk.aiszrbtgmuowu gmrfgbk!

ggggg“Aftzlv,gZmk ka,gIkokwmkl,gAvovfra,gImrka,gVzxka,gVbmulfj”

BmugkbmuzgragVouhvl uzgbmugXzuvbjggPkzgqmkunuzgqroogiklar uzgbmugvxugvb
qmrimgmug.uxvlgmragulbuzwzraua,gbmugafvoogfuvlag.tgqmrimgmuguppuibu gak
xokzrksagvg uarxl,gbmugvsbmkzrbtgmugk.bvrlu grlgasimgfuzugtksbmgqrbmgbmu
xzuvbuabgvl gfkabguhwuzruliu givwbvrlagkpgbmugqkzo ,g.tgqmkfgmugqva
pkookqu ,gbmuguhbzvkz rlvztgpvnkszgqmuzuqrbmgpkzbsluguf.zviu gvl 
pvnkszu gakgfvltgmvdvz ksa,glkbgbkgavtgzvam,guhwokrba,

ggggggggggggggg“Rfwuooulagesriesr gar.rgasffvgwubulbr
gggggggggggggggK.abvzub,gxvs ulaesugnrvfgpuiraaugzsrla;”

ggggg[“.uvzrlxg kqlgvoogqmkgaksxmbgbkgqrbmabvl gmrf,gvl gwouvau 
gggggbkgpkziugmragqvtg.tgzsrlj”--Osivl,grjg149j]

bmvbgxzuvbluaa,gbkgmvnugvbgbmugvxugkpgbmzuu-vl -bmrzbtgtuvza,gwvaau 
nribkzrksagbmzksxmgbmugqmkougmv.rbv.ouguvzbm,gvl grlgmvopgvgorpugbkgmvnu
vbbvrlu gbkgbmugsbfkabgkpgqmvbgmsfvlglvbszugivlg k;gakgbmvbgtksgivllkb
rfvxrlugrbagysabg szvbrklgvl gbmugiklbrlsvbrklgkpgmragrlizuvaugrlgnvoksz
vl gpkzbslu,gswgbkgvg sugfvbszrbtgkpgvxu,g.sbgbmvbgtksgfsabgqrbmvo
rfvxrlugakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgfvl:gbkgmvnugfv ugakgfvltgzktvog.zvlimuagbk
awzrlxgpzkfgmragako ruza,gouvnrlxgbmugqkzo ,gvbgmrag uvbm,g rnr u 
vfklxabgpkszgasiiuaakza,garfwougivwbvrlagkpgmragvzft,gqmkaugwkabuzrbtgak
oklxgiklbrlsu gvl gfvrlbvrlu gbmvbgnvabgwkaauaarkl;gakgfvltguhiuooulb
nrzbsuagvagmugqvagfvabuzgkp,gysabriu,gbufwuzvliu,gor.uzvorbt,gbzsbmgrl
mragqkz ,goknugbkqvz agmragkqlgwukwou,gvl gmsfvlrbtgbkqvz agbmkaugmu
knuzivfu;gpkzgmragfvlluza,grlgxuluzvo,gauufgrlgbzsbmgrlivwv.ougkpgvlt
fvlluzgkpgzuwzkvim,gvobmksxmgakfugwvzbrisovzgvl guhbzvkz rlvztgvibrklagkp
mragfvtgpvoogsl uzgiulaszujgg.sbgrbgragrfwkaar.ougbkgivzztgklgasimgxzuvb
bmrlxagvagmug r gqrbmrlgbmugabzribgzsouagkpgysabriu;gasimgvagmugvzugbkg.u
ys xu grlgxzkaag.tgbmugfvrlgul gkpgbmurzgvibrklajgBmugzsrlgkpgBmu.uagvl 
Wuzauwkora,gbmugfsz uzgkpgFulvl uzgvl gkpgUwmrabrkl’agwmtarirvl,gbmu
fvaavizugkpgakgfvltgWuzarvlgwzrakluzagvbgklugbrfu,gkpgvgbzkkwgkpgRl rvl
ako ruzaglkbgqrbmksbgwzuys riugbkgmragqkz ,gvl gkpgbmugIkaarvla,gakgfsim
vagbkgbmugnuztgimro zul,gvzugrl uu gavooruagbmvbgvzuglkbgquoogbkg.u
uhisau jggPkz,gvagbkgIotbsa,gbmugpvsobgqvagfkzugbmvlgzu uufu ;gvl gbmvb
nuztgvibrkl,gvagfsimgvagvltgkbmuzgqmvbunuz,gfvlrpuabagbmugxkk luaagkpgmra
lvbszu,gvglvbszugfkabguhiuooulbotgpkzfu gbkgxkk luaa;gvl grbgqva
rlxulrksaotgavr gkpgmrf,gbmvbgmugmv gmragnrzbsuagpzkfgLvbszu,gmragnriua
pzkfgPkzbslujggVagbkgmrag.urlxgvgorbbougxrnulgbkg.zvxxrlx,gvgorbbougbkk
rfwvbrulbgkpgmuvzrlxgmrfauopgroo-awkculgkp,gvl gvagbkgbmkaugfvlxuza,
vzfa,gvl g.rbagmugivsau gbkg.ugabzuqu grlgbmugRl rua,gvoogbmkaugorbbou
nvlrbrua,gfubmrlca,gfvtgnuztgquoog.ugvookqu gbkgmragtksbm,gvl gbmu
wzk rxrksagwzkawuzrbtgkpgmragpkzbslujggVl gqmkgqroogiklar uzgqrbmvogmra
akgfvltgfrorbvztgnrzbsua,gmrag rorxuliu,gpkzuarxmb,gwvbruliu,g rairworlu,
as.boubt,gfvxlvlrfrbt,gzuakosbrkl,gvl gxkk gpkzbslu,gqmuzurlg(bmksxmgqu
mv glkbgmv gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgMvllr.vogbkgvaaszugsa)gmugqvagbmugprzabgkp
ful,gbmugv frzv.oug.uvsbtgvl gatffubztgkpgmragwuzakl,gunulgbkgvgfrzviou,
mragfvyuabrigwkzbgvl gvqpsogfrul,grlgvgpviugakgtkslx,gzs  t,gvl gzv rvlb:

gggggggggggggg“Esvora,gs.rgKiuvlrgwuzpsasagOsirpuzgsl v,
gggggggggggggggEsufgNulsagvlbugvorkagvabzkzsfg rorxrbgrxlua,
gggggggggggggggUhbsorbgkagavizsfgikuok,gbulu.zvaesugzuakonrb;”

ggggg[“Vagqmul,g.vbmu grlgbmugqvnuagkpgKiuvl,gOsirpuz,gqmkfgNulsagoknua
ggggg.utkl gbmugkbmuzgabvza,gmvag rawovtu gmragavizu gikslbulvliugbkgbmu
gggggmuvnul,gvl g rawuzauagbmug vzcluaa”--VUlur ,grrrjg589j]

bmuguhiuoouliugkpgmragclkqou xugvl givwvirbt;gbmug szvbrklgvl gxzvl usz
kpgmragxokzt,gwszu,giouvl,gqrbmksbgawkbgkzgulnt,gvl gbmvbgoklxgvpbuzgmra
 uvbmgrbgqvagvgzuorxrksag.uorupgbmvbgmragnuztgfu voag.zksxmbgxkk gpkzbslu
bkgvoogqmkgivzzru gbmufgv.ksbgbmuf;gvl gbmvbgfkzugcrlxagvl gwzrliuagmvnu
qzrbbulgmragvibrklagbmvlgkbmuzgmrabkzrvlagmvnugqzrbbulgbmugvibrklagkpgvlt
kbmuzgcrlxgkzgwzrliugqmvbunuz;gvl gbmvbgbkgbmragnuztg vtgbmugFkmvffu vla,
qmkg uawraugvoogkbmuzgmrabkzrua,gv frbgkpgvl gmklkszgmragvoklu,g.tgv
awuirvogwzrnrouxu:gqmkunuz,gRgavt,gqroogauzrksaotgiklar uzgbmuau
wvzbrisovza,gqroogiklpuaagbmvb,gvoogbmuaugbmrlxagwsbgbkxubmuz,gRgmv 
zuvaklgbkgwzupuzgmrfg.upkzugIvuavzgmrfauop,gqmkgvoklugikso gfvcugfu
 ks.bpsogrlgftgimkriu:gvl grbgivllkbg.ug ulru gbmvbgbmuzugqvagfkzugkpgmra
kqlgrlgmraguhwokrba,gvl gfkzugkpgpkzbslugrlgbmkaugkpgVouhvl uzjggBmut
quzugrlgfvltgbmrlxaguesvo,gvl gwuzv nulbszugIvuavzgmv gakfugxzuvbuz
esvorbruagbmutgquzugbqkgprzua,gkzgbqkgbkzzulba,gknuzzsllrlxgbmugqkzo g.t
aunuzvogqvta;

gggggggggggggg“Vignuosbgrffraarg rnuzaragwvzbr.sagrxlua
gggggggggggggggVzulbufgrlgaronvf,gubgnrzxsobvgaklvlbrvgovszk
gggggggggggggggVsbgs.rg uiszasgzvwr kg ugfklbr.sagvobra
ggggggggggggggg vlbgaklrbsfgawsfkargvflua,gubgrlgvueskzvgiszzslb,
gggggggggggggggEsraesugassfgwkwsovbsagrbuz:”

ggggg[“Vl gvagprzuagvwworu grlgaunuzvogwvzbagbkgvg ztgqkk gvl gizvicorlx
gggggamzs.agkpgovszuo,gkzgvagqrbmgrfwubsksagpvoogpzkfgbmugabuuw
gggggfkslbvrla,gpkvfrlxgbkzzulbagwkszg kqlgbkgbmugkiuvl,guvimgiouvzrlxgv
ggggg uabzsibrnugikszauj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg521j]

.sbgbmksxmgIvuavz’agvf.rbrklgmv g.uulgfkzugfk uzvbu,grbgqkso gabroog.ugak
slmvwwt,gmvnrlxgbmugzsrlgkpgmragikslbztgvl gslrnuzavogfraimrupgbkgbmu
qkzo gpkzgrbagv.kfrlv.ougk.yuib,gbmvb,gvoogbmrlxagzvcu gbkxubmuzgvl gwsb
rlbkgbmug.vovliu,gRgfsabgluu agrliorlugbkgVouhvl uz’agar uj

Bmugbmrz gvl grlgftgkwrlrklgbmugfkabguhiuooulb,gragUwvfrlkl vajggKpgxokzt
mugmvaglkbgluvzgakgfsimgvagbmugkbmuzgbqkg(qmrim,gpkzgbmvbgfvbbuz,grag.sb
vgwvzbgkpgbmugas.abvliugkpgbmugbmrlx):gkpgnvokszgvl gzuakosbrkl,glkbgkp
bmvbgakzbgqmrimgragwsamu gklg.tgvf.rbrkl,g.sbgkpgbmvbgqmrimgqra kfgvl 
zuvaklgivlgwovlbgrlgvgzuxsovzgakso,gmugmv gvoogbmvbgikso g.ugrfvxrlu j
Kpgbmragnrzbsugkpgmra,gmugmva,grlgftgr uv,gxrnulgvagvfwougwzkkpgva
Vouhvl uzgmrfauopgkzgIvuavz:gpkzgvobmksxmgmragqvzorcuguhwokrbagquzu
lurbmuzgakgpzuesulbglkzgakgpsoo,gbmutgquzugtub,grpg sotgiklar uzu grlgvoo
bmurzgirzisfabvliua,gvagrfwkzbvlb,gvag.zvnuotgpksxmb,gvl givzzru gqrbm
bmufgvagfvlrpuabgbuabrfkltgkpgnvokszgvl gfrorbvztgikl sib,gvagbmkaugkp
vltgqmvbunuzjggBmugXzuucagmvnug klugmrfgbmugmklksz,gqrbmksb
iklbzv ribrkl,gbkgwzklksliugmrfgbmugxzuvbuabgfvlgkpgbmurzglvbrkl;gvl gbk
.ugbmugprzabgkpgXzuuiu,graguvarotgbkg.ugbmugprzabgkpgbmugqkzo jggVagbk
mragclkqou xu,gqugmvnugbmragvlirulbgys xfulbgkpgmrf,g“Bmvbglunuzgvltgfvl
cluqgakgfsim,gvl gawvcugakgorbbougvagmu”;--[Wosbvzim,gKlgbmug ufklgkp
Akizvbua,gijg23j]--pkzgmugqvagkpgbmugWtbmvxkzuvlgauib;g.sbgqmulgmug r 
awuvc,glunuzgvltgfvlgawvcug.ubbuz;gvlguhiuooulbgkzvbkz,gvl gkpgwkquzpso
wuzasvarkljgg.sbgvagbkgmragfvlluzagvl giklairuliu,gmugrlprlrbuot
aszwvaau gvoogfulgqmkgunuzgsl uzbkkcgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgvppvrza;gpkzgrl
bmragklugbmrlx,gqmrimgksxmbgimrupotgbkg.ugiklar uzu ,gqmrimgvoklugbzsot
 ulkbuagsagpkzgqmvbgqugvzu,gvl gqmrimgvoklugRgfvcugikslbuz.vovliugvoogbmu
zuabgwsbgbkxubmuz,gmugikfuaglkbgamkzbgkpgvltgwmrokakwmuzgqmvbunuz,glkb
unulgkpgAkizvbuagmrfauopjggRllkiuliu,grlgbmragfvl,gragvgesvorbtgwuisorvz,
aknuzurxl,giklabvlb,gslrpkzf,grlikzzswbr.ou,gikfwvzu gqrbmgqmrim,grb
vwwuvzagrlgVouhvl uzgas.yuibgbkgakfubmrlxguoaugas.vobuzl,gsliuzbvrl,
nvzrv.ou,guppufrlvbu,gvl gpkzbsrbksaj

Vlbresrbtgmvagys xu gbmvbgrlgbmkzksxmotgarpbrlxgvoogbmugkbmuzgxzuvb
ivwbvrla,gbmuzugragpksl grlgunuztgklugakfugwuisorvzgesvorbtgbmvb
roosabzvbuagmraglvfu:grlgbmragfvlgklotgbmuzugragvgpsoogvl guesvognrzbsu
bmzksxmksb,gbmvbgouvnuaglkbmrlxgbkg.ugqramu gpkzgrlgmrf,gqmubmuzgrl
wzrnvbugkzgws.origufwoktfulb,gqmubmuzgrlgwuviugkzgqvz;gqmubmuzgbkgornu
xokzrksaotgvl gxzvl ot,gvl gbkg ru:gRg kglkbgclkqgvltgpkzfgkzgpkzbslugkp
fvlgbmvbgRgakgfsimgmklkszgvl goknuj

‘BragbzsugbmvbgRgokkcgswklgmragk.abrlvbugwknuzbt,gvagrbgragaubgksbg.tgmra
.uabgpzrul a,gvagvgorbbougbkkgaizswsoksagvl glriu;gvl gbmragragbmugklot
puvbszu,gbmksxmgmrxmgrlgrbauopgvl gquoogqkzbmtgkpgv frzvbrkl,gbmvbgRgprl 
akgzsxxu gvaglkbgbkg uarzugbkgrfrbvbu,gbkgbmug uxzuugrbgqvagrlgmrfj

AirwrkgVUfrorvlsagvoklu,gikso gklugvbbzr.sbugbkgmrfgvag.zvnugvl 
fvxlrpriulbgvlgul ,gvl gvagwzkpksl gvl gslrnuzavogvgclkqou xu,gfrxmbg.u
wsbgrlbkgbmugkbmuzgaivougkpgbmug.vovliujggKm,gqmvbgvlgrlysztgmvagbrfu
 klugfugbkg uwzrnugfugkpgbmugarxmbgkpgbqkgkpgbmugfkabglk.ougornuagqmrim,
.tgbmugikffklgiklaulbgkpgvoogbmugqkzo ,gklugkpgbmugxzuvbuabgkpgbmu
Xzuuca,gvl gbmugkbmuzgkpgbmugZkfvla,gquzugrlgvoogWosbvzimjggQmvbgv
fvbbuz!gqmvbgvgqkzcfvl!

Pkzgvgfvlgbmvbgqvaglkgavrlb,g.sb,gvagqugavt,gvgxulboufvl,gkpgirnrorvlgvl 
kz rlvztgfvlluza,gvl gkpgvgfk uzvbugvf.rbrkl,gbmugzrimuabgorpugbmvbgR
clkq,gvl gpsoogkpgbmugzrimuabgvl gfkabgbkg.ug uarzu gwvzba,gvoogbmrlxa
iklar uzu ,gra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgkpgVoir.rv uaj

.sbgvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagUwvfrlkl va,gRgqroogmuzu,gpkzgbmuguhvfwougkpgvl
uhiuaarnugxkk luaa,gv  gakfugkpgmragkwrlrkla:gmug uiovzu ,gbmvbgbmu
xzuvbuabgavbrapvibrklgmugunuzgmv grlgmragqmkougorpu,gqvagbmugiklbulbfulb
mugxvnugmragpvbmuzgvl gfkbmuzg.tgmragnribkztgvbgOusibzv;gqmuzurlgmra
 upuzuliugragxzuvb,gwzupuzzrlxgbmurzgwouvaszug.upkzugmragkql,gakg sabgvl 
akgpsoogkpgakgxokzrksagvlgvibrkljggMug r glkbgbmrlcgrbgovqpso,gunulgbk
zuabkzugbmugor.uzbtgkpgmragikslbzt,gbkgcroogvgfvlgqrbmksbgclkqrlxgv
ivsau:gqmrimgfv ugmrfgakgiko grlgbmugulbuzwzraugkpgmragikfwvlrkl
Wuokwr vagpkzgbmugzuorupgkpgBmu.uajggMugqvagvoakgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgfulgrl
.vbbougksxmbgbkgvnkr gbmugulikslbuzgkpgvgpzrul gqmkgqvagklgbmugiklbzvzt
ar u,gvl gbkgawvzugmrfjggVl gmragmsfvlrbt,gunulgbkqvz agmragulufrua
bmufauonua,gmvnrlxgzul uzu gmrfgasawuibu gbkgbmug.kukbrvla,gpkzgbmvb,
vpbuzgmugmv gfrzvisoksaotgpkziu gbmugOviu vufklrvlagbkgkwulgbkgmrfgbmu
wvaagqmrimgbmutgmv gsl uzbvculgbkg upul gvbgbmugulbzvliugrlbkgbmugFkzuv,
luvzgIkzrlbm,gmugiklbulbu gmrfauopgqrbmgmvnrlxgimvzxu gbmzksxmgbmuf,
qrbmksbgwszasrlxgbmufgbkgbmugsbfkab,gmugmv gmragikffraarklgkpgxuluzvo
bvculgpzkfgmrf,gnuztgmklkszv.otgswklgasimgvlgviikslb,gvl gpkzgbmugamvfu
rbgqvagbkgbmufgswklgluiuaarbtgvpbuzqvz agbkgzuabkzugmrfgbkgmragikffvl ,
vl gakgbkgfvlrpuabgmkqgfsimgswklgmrfg uwul u gbmurzgavpubtgvl gmklksz;
nribkztgorcugvgamv kqgvbbul rlxgmrfgqmuzunuzgmugqulb;gvl grl uu gbmu
wzkawuzrbtgkpgmragikslbzt,gvag.urlxgpzkfgmrfg uzrnu ,g ru gqrbmgmrfj




IMVWBUZgHHHNRR

KPgBMUgZUAUF.OVLIUgKPgIMRO ZULgBKgBMURZgPVBMUZA

Bmragpvxxkbrlxgswgkpgakgfvltg rnuzagwruiuagragakg klugbmvbgRglunuzgaub
wulgbkgwvwuzg.sbgqmulgRgmvnugbkkgfsimgr ougbrfu,gvl glunuzgvltqmuzug.sb
vbgmkfu;gakgbmvbgrbgragikfwrou gvpbuzg rnuzagrlbuzzswbrklagvl grlbuznvoa,
kiivarklagcuuwrlxgfugakfubrfuagfvltgfklbmaguoauqmuzujggVagbkgbmugzuab,
Rglunuzgikzzuibgftgprzabg.tgvltgauikl gikliuwbrkla;gR,gwuzv nulbszu,gfvt
vobuzgvgqkz gkzgak,g.sbg‘bragklotgbkgnvztgbmugwmzvau,gvl glkbgbkg uabzkt
ftgpkzfuzgfuvlrlxjggRgmvnugvgfrl gbkgzuwzuaulbgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgft
msfksza,gvl gbmvbgunuztgklugfvtgauuguvimgwruiugvagrbgivfugpzkfgbmugpkzxuj
Rgikso gqramgRgmv g.uxslgakkluz,gvl gmv gbvculgfkzuglkbriugkpgbmugikszau
kpgftgfsbvbrklajggVgauznvlbgkpgfrlugqmkfgRgufwoktu gbkgbzvlaizr.ugpkzgfu,
bmksxmbgmugmv gxkbgvgwzrdug.tgabuvorlxgaunuzvogwruiuagpzkfgfu,gqmuzuqrbm
mugqvag.uabgwouvau ;g.sbgrbgragftgikfpkzbgbmvbgmugqroog.uglkgxzuvbuzgv
xvrluzgbmvlgRgamvoog.ugvgokauzg.tgbmugbmupbjggRgvfgxzkqlgko uzg.tgaunul
kzgurxmbgtuvzagarliugRg.uxvl;glkzgmvagrbg.uulgqrbmksbgavfugluq
viesrarbrkl:gRgmvnu,grlgbmvbgbrfu,g.tgbmugor.uzvorbtgkpgtuvza,g.uul
viesvrlbu gqrbmgbmugabklu:gbmurzgikffuziugvl goklxgiklnuzaug kglkbgquoo
wvaagvqvtgqrbmksbgakfugasimgrliklnulruliujggRgikso gmvnug.uulgxov gbmvb
kpgkbmuzgrlprzfrbruagvxugmvagbkgwzuaulbgoklx-ornu gfulgqrbmvo,grbgmv 
imkaulgakfugklugbmvbgqkso gmvnug.uulgfkzugquoikfugbkgfu,gpkzgrbgikso glkb
wkaar.otgmvnugovr gswklgfugvg rauvaugpkzgqmrim,gunulgpzkfgftgrlpvlit,gR
mvnugmv gakgxzuvbgvgmkzzkz;gvl grbgra,grlgbzsbm,gkpgvoogbmugviir ulbagkp
ko gvxu,gbmvbgkpgqmrimgRgmvnugunuzg.uulgfkabgvpzvr jggRgmvnugkpbul
bmksxmbgqrbmgftauopgbmvbgRgqulbgklgbkkgpvz,gvl gbmvbgrlgakgoklxgvgnktvxu
Rgamkso gvbgovabgzslgftauopgrlbkgakfug rav nvlbvxu;gRgwuziurnu ,gvl gmvnu
kpbulgulksxmg uiovzu ,gbmvbgrbgqvagbrfugbkg uwvzb,gvl gbmvbgorpugamkso 
.ugisbgkppgrlgbmugaksl gvl gornrlxgwvzb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugaszxukl’agzsou
rlgvfwsbvbrkla;gvl gbmvbglvbszugfv ugmrfgwvtgnuztgabzribgsasztgqmkg r 
lkbgrlg sugbrfugwvtgbmugwzrlirwvojggVl gtubgRgqvagakgpvzgpzkfg.urlx
zuv t,gbmvbgrlgbmugurxmbuulgfklbma’gbrfugkzgbmuzuv.ksbgbmvbgRgmvnug.uul
rlgbmragsluvatgikl rbrkl,gRgmvnugakgrlszu gftauopgbkgrbgvagbkg.ugiklbulb
bkgornugklgrlgrb;gvl gmvnugpksl gqmuzurlgbkgikfpkzbgftauop,gvl gbkgmkwu:
akgfsimgvzugfulgulaovnu gbkgbmurzgfrauzv.oug.urlx,gbmvbgbmuzugraglk
ikl rbrklgakgqzubimu gbmutgqrooglkbgviiuwb,gwzknr u gbmutgfvtgornu!ggMuvz
Fvuiulva:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“ u.roufgpvirbkgfvls,
ggggggggggggggggggggggggg u.roufgwu u,gikhv,
gggggggggggggggggggggggggOs.zrikagesvbug ulbua;
gggggggggggggggggggggggggNrbvg sfgaswuzuab,g.uluguabj”

ggggg[“Izrwwougftgmvl ,gpkkb,gmrw;gamvcugksbgftgokkaugbuubm:gqmrou
gggggbmuzu’agorpu,g‘bragquooj”--Vws gAuluiv,gUwj,g101j]

Vl gBvfuzovlu,gqrbmgvgpkkoramgmsfvlrbt,gwvoorvbu gbmugpvlbvabrigizsuobt
muguhuzirau gswklgouwuza,gqmulgmugwsbgvoogmugikso gmuvzgkpgbkg uvbm,gbk
 uornuzgbmuf,gvagmugwzubul u ,gpzkfgbmugwvrlpsogorpugbmutgornu jggPkz
bmuzugqvaglkbgklugkpgbmufgqmkgqkso glkbgzvbmuzgmvnug.uulgbmzriugvgouwuz
bmvlg.uglkbjggVl gVlbrabmuluagbmugAbkri,g.urlxgnuztgaric,gvl giztrlxgksb,
“Qmkgqroog uornuzgfugpzkfgbmuaugunroa?”g rkxulua,gqmkgmv gikfugbkgnrarb
mrf,g“Bmra,”gavr gmu,gwzuaulbrlxgmrfgvgclrpu,g“akklgulksxm,grpgbmks
qrobj”--“Rg kglkbgfuvlgpzkfgftgorpu,”gmugzuworu ,g“.sbgpzkfgft
asppuzrlxaj”ggBmugasppuzrlxagbmvbgklotgvbbvicgbmugfrl ,gRgvfglkbgak
aular.ougkpgvagfkabgkbmuzgful;gvl gbmragwvzbotgksbgkpgys xfulb,gpkzgbmu
qkzo gokkcagswklgaunuzvogbmrlxagvag zuv psogkzgbkg.ugvnkr u gvbgbmu
uhwulaugkpgorpu,gbmvbgvzugvofkabgrl rppuzulbgbkgfu:gwvzbot,gbmzksxmgv
 soogvl grlaular.ougikfwouhrklgRgmvnugrlgviir ulbagqmrimg kglkb
wkrlb-.ovlcgmrbgfu;gvl gbmvbgrlaular.rorbtgRgokkcgswklgvagklugkpgbmug.uab
wvzbagkpgftglvbszvogikl rbrkl;g.sbguaaulbrvogvl gikzwkzuvogwvrlagRgvf
nuztgaular.ougkpjggVl gtub,gmvnrlxgoklxgarliugpkzuauulgbmuf,gbmksxmgqrbm
vgarxmbgquvcgvl g uorivbugvl gakpbulu gqrbmgbmugoklxgvl gmvwwtgmuvobmgvl 
esrubgbmvbgXk gmvag.uulgwouvau gbkgxrnugfugbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgftgbrfu,
Rgmv grlgftgrfvxrlvbrklgpvliru gbmufgakgrlaswwkzbv.ou,gbmvb,grlgbzsbm,gR
qvagfkzugvpzvr gbmvlgRgmvnugarliugpksl gRgmv givsau:g.tgqmrimgRgvfgabroo
fkzugpkzbrpru grlgbmrag.uorup,gbmvbgfkabgkpgbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugakso,gva
qugufwoktgbmuf,gfkzugbzks.ougbmugzuwkaugkpgorpugbmvlgbmutgvzugvltgqvt
saupsogbkgrbj

Rgvfgrlgiklporibgqrbmgbmugqkzab,gbmugfkabgas  ul,gbmugfkabgwvrlpso,gbmu
fkabgfkzbvo,gvl gbmugfkabgrzzufu rv.ougkpgvoog rauvaua;gRgmvnugvozuv t
mv gbmugbzrvogkpgprnugkzgarhgnuztgoklxgvl gnuztgwvrlpsogprba;gvl gtubgR
urbmuzgpovbbuzgftauop,gkzgbmuzugragunulgrlgbmragabvbugqmvbgragnuztgquoo
bkg.ugul szu g.tgvgfvlgqmkgmvagmragaksogpzuugpzkfgbmugpuvzgkpg uvbm,gvl 
kpgbmugfulviua,gikliosarkla,gvl giklauesuliuagqmrimgwmtarigragunuz
bmsl uzrlxgrlgkszguvza;g.sbgbmuguppuibgunulgkpgwvrlgrbauopgraglkbgak
amvzwgvl grlbkouzv.ougvagbkgwsbgvgfvlgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgrlbkgzvxugvl 
 uawvrzjggRgmvnugvbgouvabgbmragv nvlbvxug.tgftgabklu,gbmvbgqmvbgRgikso 
lkbgmrbmuzbkgwzunvrogswklgftauopgbkgzuakonugswkl,gvagbkgzuiklirorlxgvl 
viesvrlbrlxgftauopgqrbmg uvbm,grbgqroogwuzpuib;gpkzgbmugfkzugrbgwzuaaua
swklgvl grfwkzbsluagfu,gRgamvoog.ugakgfsimgbmugouaagvpzvr gbkg rujggRgmv 
vozuv tgxklugakgpvzgvagklotgbkgoknugorpugpkzgorpu’agavcu,g.sbgftgwvrl
qroog raakonugbmragrlbuoorxuliu;gvl gXk gxzvlbgbmvbgrlgbmugul ,gamkso 
bmugamvzwluaagkpgrbg.ugkliugxzuvbuzgbmvlgRgamvoog.ugv.ougbkg.uvz,grbg kua
lkbgbmzkqgfugrlbkgbmugkbmuzglkgouaagnrirksaguhbzufugbkg uarzugvl gqramgbk
 ru!

ggggggggggggggg“Asffsfgluigfubsvag ruf,gluigkwbua:”

gggggggggg[“Lurbmuzgbkgqram,glkzgpuvzgbkg ruj”gg(Kz:)
gggggggggg“Bmksgamkso uabglurbmuzgpuvzglkzg uarzugbmugovabg vtj”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,ghjg7j]

bmutgvzugbqkgwvaarklagbkg.ugpuvzu ;g.sbgbmugklugmvagrbagzufu tgfsim
luvzuzgvbgmvl gbmvlgbmugkbmuzj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgmvnugvoqvtagpksl gbmugwzuiuwbgbmvbgakgzrxkzksaot
ulykrlagvgzuakosbugikslbulvliugvl g ra vrlpsogvl grl rppuzulbgikfwkzbfulb
rlgbmugbkouzvbrklgkpgrlprzfrbruagbkg.ugiuzufklrvojggQmtgamkso 
wmrokakwmt,gqmrimgklotgmvagzuawuibgbkgorpugvl guppuiba,gbzks.ougrbauop
v.ksbgbmuauguhbuzlvogvwwuvzvliua?ggOubgsagouvnugbmvbgivzugbkgvibkzagvl 
fvabuzagkpgzmubkzri,gqmkgaubgakgxzuvbgvgnvosugswklgkszgxuabszuajggOubgmuz
vookqgbmragnkivogpzvrobtgbkg rauvau,grpgrbg.uglurbmuzgikz rvoglkz
abkfvimri,gvl gwuzfrbgbmugkz rlvztgqvtagkpguhwzuaarlxgxzrupg.tgarxma,
ak.a,gwvowrbvbrkla,gvl gbszlrlxgwvou,gbmvbglvbszugmvagwsbgksbgkpgksz
wkquz;gwzknr u gbmugikszvxug.ugsl vslbu ,gvl gbmugbkluaglkbguhwzuaarnu
kpg uawvrz,goubgmuzg.ugavbrapru jggQmvbgfvbbuzgbmugqzrlxrlxgkpgkszgmvl a,
rpgqug kglkbgqzrlxgkszgbmksxmba?ggAmugpkzfagsagpkzgkszauonua,glkbgpkz
kbmuza;gbkg.u,glkbgbkgauuf;goubgmuzg.ugavbrapru gqrbmgxknuzlrlxgksz
sl uzabvl rlx,gqmrimgamugmvagbvculgswklgmuzgbmugivzugkpgrlabzsibrlx;
bmvb,grlgbmugpsztgkpgbmugikori,gamugfvrlbvrlgbmugaksogrlgvgikl rbrklgbk
clkqgrbauop,gvl gbkgpkookqgrbagviisabkfu gqvt,giklbul rlxgqrbm,gvl 
ul szrlx,glkbgfuvlotgbzsicorlxgsl uzgwvrl;gfknu gvl gmuvbu ,glkbgas. su 
vl giklesuzu ,grlgbmugiklbulbrkl;givwv.ougkpg raikszaugvl gkbmuzgbmrlxa,
bkgvgiuzbvrlg uxzuujggRlgasimguhbzufugviir ulba,g‘bragizsuobtgbkgzuesrzu
akguhvibgvgikfwkau luaajgg‘Braglkgxzuvbgfvbbuzgbmvbgqugfvcugvgqztgpviu,
rpgbmugfrl gwovtagrbagwvzbgquoo:grpgbmug.k tgprl grbauopgzuorunu g.t
ikfwovrlrlxgoubgrbgikfwovrl:grpgvxrbvbrklguvaugrb,goubgrbgbsf.ougvl gbkaa
vbgwouvaszu;grpgrbgauufgbkgprl gbmug rauvaugunvwkzvbug(vagakfugwmtarirvla
mko gbmvbgrbgmuowagqkfulgrlg uornuzt)grlgfvcrlxgoks gksbizrua,gkzgrpgbmra
 kg.sbg rnuzbgrbagbkzfulba,goubgrbgzkvzgvagrbgqroojggOubgsaglkbgikffvl 
bmragnkriugbkgavoot,g.sbgabkwgrbglkbjggUwriszsa,glkbgklotgpkzxrnuagmra
avxugpkzgiztrlxgksbgrlgbkzfulba,g.sbgv nrauagmrfgbkgrb:

gggggggggg“Wsxrouagubrvf,gessfgpuzrslb,grlgyvibvl ragivuabr.sa
ggggggggggrlxufraislb,gesrvgwzkpsl ul vgnkiugkflugikzwsagrlbul rbsz,
ggggggggggnulrbesugwovxvgnumufulbrkzj”

ggggg[“.khuzagvoak,gqmulgbmutgabzrcu,gxzkvlgrlgbmugvib,g.uivsaugqrbmgbmu
gggggabzulxbmgkpgnkriugbmugqmkoug.k tgragivzzru ,gvl gbmug.okqgikfuagqrbm
gggggbmugxzuvbuzgnumufuliuj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjg23j]

Qugmvnugulksxmgbkg kgbkg uvogqrbmgbmug rauvau,gqrbmksbgbzks.orlx
kszauonuagqrbmgbmuaugaswuzposksagzsouaj

QmrimgRgavtgrlguhisaugkpgbmkaugqmkfgqugkz rlvzrotgauugrfwvbrulbgrlgbmu
vaavsobagkpgbmragfvov t;gpkzgvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagftauop,gRgmvnugwvaau grb
knuzgmrbmuzbkgqrbmgvgorbboug.ubbuzgikslbulvliu,gvl giklbulbu gftauopgqrbm
xzkvlrlxgqrbmksbgzkvzrlxgksb;glkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gbmvbgRgwsbgvltgxzuvb
iklabzvrlbgswklgftauopgbkgfvrlbvrlgbmraguhbuzrkzg uikzsf,gpkzgRgfvcu
orbbougviikslbgkpgasimgvlgv nvlbvxu:gRgvookqgmuzurlgvagfsimgvagbmugwvrl
zuesrzua;g.sbgurbmuzgftgwvrlagvzuglkbgakguhiuaarnu,gkzgRgmvnugfkzugbmvl
kz rlvztgwvbruliujggRgikfwovrl,gRgiklpuaa,gvl gvfgvgorbbougrfwvbrulbgrlgv
nuztgamvzwgprb,g.sbgRg kglkbgvzzrnugbkgasimgvg uxzuugkpg uawvrzgvagmugqmk
qrbm:

ggggggggggggggg“Uysovbs,gesuabs,gxufrbs,gpzufrbr.sa
gggggggggggggggZuaklvl k,gfsobsfgpou.rouagnkiuagzupuzb:”

ggggg[“Mkqorlx,gzkvzrlx,gxzkvlrlxgqrbmgvgbmksavl glkraua,guhwzuaarlxgmra
gggggbkzfulbgrlgvg rafvognkriuj”g(Kz:)g“Qvrorlx,gikfwovrlrlx,gxzkvlrlx,
gggggfszfszrlxgfsimgvnvrogosxs.zrksagaksl aj”--NuzauagkpgVbbrsa,grlgmra
gggggWmvokibubua,geskbu g.tgIriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grrjgg29;gBsaijggEsvuaj,
gggggrrjg14j]

Rgbztgftauopgrlgbmug uwbmgkpgftgasppuzrlx,gvl gmvnugvoqvtagpksl gbmvbgR
qvagrlgvgivwvirbtgbkgawuvc,gbmrlc,gvl gxrnugvgzvbrklvogvlaquzgvagquoogva
vbgvltgkbmuzgbrfu,g.sbglkbgakgprzfot,g.urlxgbzks.ou gvl grlbuzzswbu g.t
bmugwvrljggQmulgRgvfgokkcu gswklg.tgftgnrarbkzagbkg.ugrlgbmugxzuvbuab
bkzfulb,gvl gbmvbgbmutgbmuzupkzugpkz.uvzgbkgbzks.ougfu,gRgkpbulguaavtgft
kqlgabzulxbm,gvl gftauopgaubgakfug raikszaugklgpkkb,gbmugfkabgzufkbugR
ivlgiklbzrnugpzkfgftgwzuaulbgikl rbrkljggRgivlg kgvltbmrlxgswklgvgas  ul
ul uvnksz,g.sbgrbgfsabglkbgiklbrlsugoklxjggKm,gqmvbgwrbtg‘bragRgmvnuglkb
bmugpvisobtgkpgbmvbg zuvfuzgrlgIriuzk,gqmkg zuvfrlxgmugqvagotrlxgqrbmgv
qulim,gpksl gmugmv g raimvzxu gmragabklugrlgbmugamuubajggFtgwvrla
abzvlxuotg uv ulgftgvwwubrbugbmvbgqvtjggRlgbmugrlbuznvoagpzkfgbmra
uhiuaarnugbkzfulb,gqmulgftgszubuzagklotgovlxsramgqrbmksbgvltgxzuvbg kokz,
Rgwzuaulbotgpuuogftauopgrlgftgqklbu gabvbu,gpkzvafsimgvagftgaksogbvcuaglk
kbmuzgvovzfg.sbgqmvbgragaular.ougvl gikzwkzvo,gqmrimgRgiuzbvrlotgkqugbk
bmugivzugRgmvnugmv gkpgwzuwvzrlxgftauopg.tgfu rbvbrklgvxvrlabgasim
viir ulba:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Ov.kzsf,
gggggggggggggggLsoovgfrmrglknvglsligpviruagrlkwrlvnugaszxrb;
gggggggggggggggKflrvgwzvuiuwr,gvbesugvlrfkgfuisfgvlbugwuzuxrj”

ggggg[“Lkgluqgamvwugkpgasppuzrlxgivlgvzraugluqgkzgsluhwuibu ;gRgmvnu
gggggvlbrirwvbu gvoo,gvl gvibu gbmufgknuzg.upkzumvl grlgftgfrl j”
gggggg--VUlur ,gnrjg103j]

Rgvf,gmkqunuz,gvgorbbougzksxmotgmvl ou gpkzgvlgvwwzulbriu,gvl gqrbmgv
as  ulgvl gamvzwgvobuzvbrkl,g.urlxgpvooulgrlgvlgrlabvlbgpzkfgvgnuztguvat
vl gmvwwtgikl rbrklgkpgorpugrlbkgbmugfkabgsluvatgvl gwvrlpsogbmvbgivlg.u
rfvxrlu jggPkzg.uar uagbmvbgrbgragvg rauvaugnuztgfsimgbkg.ugpuvzu grl
rbauop,grbg.uxrlagqrbmgfugvpbuzgvgfkzugamvzwgvl gaunuzugfvlluzgbmvlgrbgra
sau gbkg kgqrbmgkbmuzgfuljggFtgprbagikfugakgbmricgswklgfugbmvbgRgvf
aivziuotgunuzgvbguvau;gtubgRgmvnugmrbmuzbkgcuwbgftgfrl gakgswzrxmbgbmvb,
wzknr u gRgivlgabroogiklbrlsugrb,gRgprl gftauopgrlgvgfsimg.ubbuz
ikl rbrklgkpgorpugbmvlgvgbmksavl gkbmuza,gqmkgmvnuglkgpuquzglkzgkbmuz
 rauvaug.sbgqmvbgbmutgizuvbugbkgbmufauonuagpkzgqvlbgkpgfu rbvbrklj

Bmuzugragvgiuzbvrlgakzbgkpgizvpbtgmsfrorbtgbmvbgawzrlxagpzkfgwzuasfwbrkl,
vagbmra,gpkzguhvfwou,gbmvbgqugiklpuaagkszgrxlkzvliugrlgfvltgbmrlxa,gvl 
vzugakgikszbuksagvagbkgviclkqou xugbmvbgbmuzugvzugrlgbmugqkzcagkpglvbszu
akfugesvorbruagvl gikl rbrklagbmvbgvzugrfwuziuwbr.ougbkgsa,gvl gkpgqmrim
kszgsl uzabvl rlxgivllkbg raiknuzgbmugfuvlagvl givsaua;g.tgbmragakgmkluab
vl giklairulbrksag uiovzvbrklgqugmkwugbkgk.bvrlgbmvbgwukwougamvoogvoak
.uorunugsagvagbkgbmkaugbmvbgqugavtgqug kgsl uzabvl jggQugluu glkbgbzks.ou
kszauonuagbkgauucgksbgpkzurxlgfrzviouagvl g rpprisobrua;gfubmrlca,
vfklxabgbmugbmrlxagbmvbgqugkz rlvzrotgauu,gbmuzugvzugasim
rlikfwzumular.ougqkl uzagvagaszwvaagvoog rpprisobruagkpgfrzviouajggQmvbgv
qkl uzpsogbmrlxgrbgragbmvbgbmug zkwgkpgauu gpzkfgqmrimgqugvzugwzk siu 
amkso givzztgrlgrbauopgbmugrfwzuaarklglkbgklotgkpgbmug.k rotgpkzf,g.sb
unulgkpgbmugbmksxmbagvl grliorlvbrklagkpgkszgpvbmuza!ggQmuzugivlgbmvb
 zkwgkpgposr gfvbbuzgiklbvrlgbmvbgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgpkzfa?gvl gmkqgivl
bmutgivzztgklgbmuaugzuauf.ovliuagqrbmgakgwzuivzrksagvl grzzuxsovzgv
wzkiuaagbmvbgbmugaklgamvoog.ugorcugmragxzuvb-xzvl pvbmuz,gbmugluwmuqgorcu
mragsliou?ggRlgbmugpvfrotgkpgOuwr sagvbgZkfugbmuzugquzugbmzuu,glkb
asiiuaarnuotg.sbg.tgrlbuznvoa,gqmkgquzug.kzlgqrbmgbmugavfugutugiknuzu 
qrbmgvgivzbrovxujggVbgBmu.uagbmuzugqvagvgzviugbmvbgivzzru gpzkfgbmurz
fkbmuz’agqkf.gbmugpkzfgkpgbmugmuv gkpgvgovliu,gvl gmugqmkgqvaglkbg.kzlgak
qvagokkcu gswklgvagroouxrbrfvbujggVl gVzrabkbougavtagbmvbgrlgvgiuzbvrl
lvbrkl,gqmuzugbmugqkfulgquzugrlgikffkl,gbmutgvaarxlu gbmugimro zulgbk
bmurzgpvbmuzag.tgbmurzgzuauf.ovliuj

‘Bragbkg.ug.uorunu gbmvbgRg uzrnugbmragrlprzfrbtgpzkfgftgpvbmuz,gpkzgmu
 ru gqkl uzpsootgbkzfulbu gqrbmgvgxzuvbgabklugrlgmrag.ov  uz;gmugqva
lunuzgaular.ougkpgmrag rauvaugbroogbmugarhbt-aunulbmgtuvzgkpgmragvxu;gvl 
.upkzugbmvbgmv glunuzgpuobgvltgfulviugkzgatfwbkfagkpgrb,gurbmuzgrlgmra
zurla,gar ua,gkzgvltgkbmuzgwvzb,gvl gmv gornu ,gbroogbmul,grlgvgmvwwt,
nrxkzksagabvbugkpgmuvobm,gorbbougas.yuibgbkgrlprzfrbrua,gvl gmugiklbrlsu 
aunulgtuvzagvpbuzgrlgbmrag rauvau,g zvxxrlxgklgvgnuztgwvrlpsogul gkp
orpujggRgqvag.kzlgv.ksbgprnu-vl -bqulbtgtuvzag.upkzugmrag rauvaugaurdu 
mrf,gvl grlgbmugbrfugkpgmragfkabgpokszramrlxgvl gmuvobmpsogabvbugkpg.k t,
mragbmrz gimro grlgkz uzgkpg.rzbm:gqmuzugikso gmragwzkwularklgbkgbmra
fvov tgorugoszcrlxgvoogbmvbgqmrou?ggVl gmug.urlxgbmulgakgpvzgpzkfgbmu
rlprzfrbt,gmkqgikso gbmvbgafvoogwvzbgkpgmragas.abvliugqmuzuqrbmgmugfv u
fu,givzztgvqvtgakgxzuvbgvlgrfwzuaarklgpkzgrbagamvzu?ggvl gmkqgak
ikliuvou ,gbmvbgbroogprnu-vl -pkzbtgtuvzagvpbuz,gRg r glkbg.uxrlgbkg.u
aular.ougkpgrb?gg.urlxgbmugklotgklugbkgbmragmksz,gvfklxabgakgfvlt
.zkbmuzagvl garabuza,gvl gvoog.tgklugfkbmuz,gbmvbgqvagunuzgbzks.ou gqrbm
rbjggMugbmvbgivlgavbraptgfugrlgbmragwkrlb,gRgqroog.uorunugmrfgrlgvagfvlt
kbmuzgfrzviouagvagmugwouvaua;gvoqvtagwzknr u gbmvb,gvagbmurzgfvlluzgra,
mug kglkbgxrnugfugvg kibzrlugfsimgfkzugrlbzrivbugvl gpvlbvabrigbmvlgbmu
bmrlxgrbauopgpkzgiszzulbgwvtj

Oubgbmugwmtarirvlagvgorbbouguhisaugbmugor.uzbtgRgbvcu,gpkzg.tgbmragavfu
rlpsarklgvl gpvbvogrlarlsvbrklgrbgragbmvbgRgmvnugzuiurnu gvgmvbzu gvl 
iklbufwbgkpgbmurzg kibzrlu;gbmugvlbrwvbmtgRgmvnugvxvrlabgbmurzgvzbgra
muzu rbvztjggFtgpvbmuzgornu gbmzuu-aikzugvl gpkszbuulgtuvza,gft
xzvl pvbmuzgarhbt-lrlu,gftgxzuvb-xzvl pvbmuzgvofkabgpkszaikzugtuvza,
qrbmksbgunuzgbvabrlxgvltgakzbgkpgwmtari;gvl ,gqrbmgbmuf,gqmvbunuzgqvaglkb
kz rlvztg rub,gqvagrlabuv gkpgvg zsxjggWmtarigragxzksl u gswklguhwuzruliu
vl guhvfwoua:gakgragftgkwrlrkljggVl graglkbgbmragvlguhwzuaagvl gnuzt
v nvlbvxuksaguhwuzruliujggRg kglkbgclkqgbmvbgbmutgivlgprl gfugrlgvoo
bmurzgzuikz agbmzuugbmvbgquzug.kzl,g.zu ,gvl g ru gsl uzgbmugavfugzkkp,
qmkgmvnugornu gakgoklxg.tgbmurzgikl sibjggBmutgfsabgmuzugkpgluiuaarbt
iklpuaa,gbmvbgrpgzuvaklg.uglkb,gpkzbslugvbgouvabgragklgftgar u,gvl gqrbm
wmtarirvlagpkzbslugxkuagvgxzuvbg uvogpszbmuzgbmvlgzuvakljggOubgbmufglkb
bvcugfuglkqgvbgvg rav nvlbvxu;goubgbmufglkbgbmzuvbulgfugrlgbmugas. su 
ikl rbrklgqmuzurlgRglkqgvf;gbmvbgquzugbzuvimuztjggRlgbzsbm,gRgmvnugulksxm
bmug.ubbuzgkpgbmufg.tgbmuaug kfuabriguhvfwoua,gbmvbgbmutgamkso gzuab
avbrapru jggMsfvlgbmrlxagvzuglkbgsasvootgakgiklabvlb;grbgmvag.uulgbqk
msl zu gtuvza,gavnugurxmbuul,gbmvbgbmragbzrvogmvagovabu ,gpkzgbmugprzab
kpgbmufgqvag.kzlgrlgbmugtuvzg1402:g‘braglkq,grl uu ,gnuztgxkk gzuvakl
bmvbgbmraguhwuzruliugamkso g.uxrlgbkgpvrogsajggOubgbmufglkb,gbmuzupkzu,
zuwzkvimgfugqrbmgbmugrlprzfrbruagsl uzgqmrimgRglkqgasppuz;gragrbglkb
ulksxmgbmvbgRgpkzgftgwvzbgmvnugornu gaunul-vl -pkzbtgtuvzagrlgxkk 
muvobm?gbmksxmgrbgamkso g.ugbmugul gkpgftgivzuuz;g‘bragkpgbmugoklxuz
akzbj

Ftgvliuabkzagmv gvlgvnuzarklgbkgwmtarig.tgakfugkiisobgvl glvbszvo
rlabrlib;gpkzgbmugnuztgarxmbgkpg zsxagqvagokvbmakfugbkgftgpvbmuzjggBmu
Aurxluszg ugXvnrvi,gftgslioug.tgbmugpvbmuz’agar u,gvgimszimfvl,gvl gv
nvoubs rlvztgpzkfgmrag.rzbm,gvl gtubgqmkgfv ugbmvbgizvdtgorpugmko gksbgbk
arhbt-aunulgtuvza,g.urlxgkliugpvooulgrlbkgvgpszrksagpunuz,grbgqvagkz uzu 
.tgbmugwmtarirvlagmugamkso g.ugwovrlotgbko gbmvbgrpgmugqkso glkbgfvcugsau
kpgmuowg(pkzgakgbmutgivoogbmvbgqmrimgragnuztgkpbulgvlgk.abviou),gmugqkso 
rlpvoor.otg.ugvg uv gfvljggBmvbgxkk gfvl,gbmksxmgbuzzrpru gqrbmgbmra
 zuv psogaulbuliu,gtubgzuworu ,g“Rgvfgbmulgvg uv gfvlj”gg.sbgXk gakkl
vpbuzgfv ugbmugwzkxlkabrigpvoaujggBmugovabgkpgbmug.zkbmuza--bmuzugquzu
pkszgkpgbmuf--vl g.tgfvltgtuvzagbmugovab,gbmugAruszg ug.saavxsub,gqvagbmu
klotgklugkpgbmugpvfrotgqmkgfv ugsaugkpgfu rirlu,g.tgzuvakl,gRgaswwkau,gkp
bmugikliuzlgmugmv gqrbmgbmugkbmuzgvzba,gpkzgmugqvagvgikslirookzgrlgbmu
ikszbgkpgWvzorvfulb,gvl grbgasiiuu u gakgroogqrbmgmrf,gbmvbg.urlxgrl
ksbqvz gvwwuvzvliugkpgbmugabzklxuabgiklabrbsbrkl,gmugtubg ru goklxg.upkzu
vltgkpgbmugzuab,gavnugbmugAruszg ugAvrlbgFrimuoj

‘Bragwkaar.ougRgfvtgmvnug uzrnu gbmraglvbszvogvlbrwvbmtgbkgwmtarigpzkf
bmuf;g.sbgmv gbmuzug.uulglkgkbmuzgiklar uzvbrklgrlgbmugivau,gRgqkso gmvnu
ul uvnkszu gbkgmvnugknuzikfugrb;gpkzgvoogbmuaugikl rbrklagbmvbgawzrlxgrl
sagqrbmksbgzuvakl,gvzugnrirksa;g‘bragvgcrl gkpg rauvaugbmvbgqugamkso 
qzuabougqrbmjggRbgfvtg.ugRgmv glvbszvootgbmragwzkwularkl;g.sbgRgmvnu
aswwkzbu gvl gpkzbrpru grbg.tgvzxsfulbagvl gzuvaklagqmrimgmvnu
uabv.oramu grlgfugbmugkwrlrklgRgvfgkpjggPkzgRgvoakgmvbugbmugiklar uzvbrkl
kpgzupsarlxgwmtarigpkzgbmuglvsauksagbvabuj

Rgamkso gmvz otg.ugkpgbmvbgmsfkszgqmkgmko gmuvobmgbkg.ugqkzbmgwszimvarlx
.tgvoogbmugfkabgwvrlpsogivsbuzruagvl grlirarklagbmvbgivlg.ugvwworu j
Vl ,gqrbmgUwriszsa,gRgikliurnugbmvbgwouvaszuagvzugbkg.ugvnkr u ,grp
xzuvbuzgwvrlag.ugbmugiklauesuliu,gvl gwvrlagbkg.ugiknubu ,gbmvbgqroo
buzfrlvbugrlgxzuvbuzgwouvaszuajggMuvobmgragvgwzuirksagbmrlx,gvl gbmugklot
klu,grlgbzsbm,gfuzrbrlxgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso govtgksb,glkbgklotgmragbrfu,
aquvb,gov.ksz,gvl gxkk a,g.sbgvoakgmragorpugrbauopgbkgk.bvrlgrb;
pkzvafsimgva,gqrbmksbgrb,gorpugragquvzrakfugvl grlyszrksagbkgsa:
wouvaszu,gqra kf,gouvzlrlx,gvl gnrzbsu,gqrbmksbgrb,gqrbmuzgvqvtgvl 
nvlram;gvl gbkgbmugfkabgov.kszu gvl gakor g raikszauagbmvbgwmrokakwmt
qkso grfwzrlbgrlgsagbkgbmugiklbzvzt,gqugluu glkgfkzug.sbgkwwkaugbmugrfvxu
kpgWovbkg.urlxgabzsicgqrbmgvlguwrouwatgkzgvwkwouht;gvl ,grlgbmra
wzuaswwkarbrkl,gbkg uptgmrfgbkgivoogbmugzrimgpvisobruagkpgmragaksogbkgmra
vaarabvliujggVoogfuvlagbmvbgikl siugbkgmuvobmgivlglurbmuzg.ugbkkgwvrlpso
lkzgbkkg uvzgbkgfujgg.sbgRgmvnugakfugkbmuzgvwwuvzvliuagbmvbgfvcugfu
abzvlxuotgasawuibgvoogbmragfuzimvl raujggRg kglkbg ultg.sbgbmvbgbmuzugfvt
.ugakfugvzbgrlgrb,gbmvbgbmuzugvzuglkbgvfklxabgakgfvltgqkzcagkpgLvbszu,
bmrlxagwzkwuzgpkzgbmugiklauznvbrklgkpgmuvobm:gbmvbgragfkabgiuzbvrl:gR
nuztgquoogclkqgbmuzugvzugakfugarfwouagbmvbgfkrabul,gvl gkbmuzagbmvbg zt;
Rguhwuzrfulbvootgclkqgbmvbgzv ramuagvzugqrl t,gvl gaullv-ouvnuagwszxrlx;
vl gaunuzvogkbmuzgasimguhwuzruliuagRgmvnu,gvagbmvbgfsbbklglkszramuagfu,
vl gqrlugqvzfagfu:gvl gAkoklgavr g“bmvbguvbrlxgqvagwmtarigvxvrlabgbmu
fvov tgmslxuzj”ggRg kglkbg ravwwzknugbmugsaugqugfvcugkpgbmrlxagbmuguvzbm
wzk siua,glkzg ks.b,grlgbmugouvab,gkpgbmugwkquzgvl gpuzbrorbtgkpgLvbszu,
vl gkpgrbagvwworivbrklgbkgkszgluiuaarbrua:gRgnuztgquoogauugbmvbgwrcuagvl 
aqvookqagornug.tgmuzgovqa;g.sbgRgfrabzsabgbmugrlnulbrklagkpgkszgfrl ,gksz
clkqou xugvl gvzb,gbkgikslbulvliugqmrim,gqugmvnugv.vl klu gLvbszugvl gmuz
zsoua,gvl gqmuzurlgqugcuuwglkg.ksl aglkzgfk uzvbrkljggVagqugivoogbmu
wrorlxgswgkpgbmugprzabgovqagbmvbgpvoogrlbkgkszgmvl agysabriu,gvl gbmurz
wzvibriugvl g rawulavbrklgnuztgkpbulgpkkoramgvl gnuztgslysab;gvl gva
bmkaugqmkgaikppgvbgvl gviisaugrb,g kglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,g.ovfugbmvbglk.ou
nrzbsugrbauop,g.sbgklotgikl uflgbmugv.saugvl gwzkpvlvbrklgkpgbmvbgavizu 
brbou;gakgrlgwmtarigRgnuztgfsimgmklkszgbmvbgxokzrksaglvfu,grba
wzkwkarbrkla,grbagwzkfraua,gakgsaupsogpkzgbmugauznriugkpgfvlcrl ;g.sbgbmu
kz rlvliuagrbgpkrabagswklgsa,g.ubqrhbgkszauonua,gRglurbmuzgmklkszglkz
uabuufj

Rlgbmugprzabgwoviu,guhwuzruliugfvcuagfug zuv grb;gpkzgvfklxabgvoogft
viesvrlbvliu,gRgauuglkgwukwougakgakklgaric,gvl gakgoklxg.upkzugbmutgvzu
quoo,gvagbmkaugqmkgbvcugfsimgwmtari;gbmurzgnuztgmuvobmgragvobuzu gvl 
ikzzswbu g.tgbmurzgpzuesulbgwzuaizrwbrklajggWmtarirvlagvzuglkbgiklbulbgbk
 uvogklotgqrbmgbmugaric,g.sbgbmutgqroogfkzuknuzgikzzswbgmuvobmgrbauop,
pkzgpuvzgfulgamkso gvbgvltgbrfuguaivwugbmurzgvsbmkzrbtjgg kgbmutglkb,
pzkfgvgiklbrlsvogvl gwuzpuibgmuvobm,g zvqgbmugvzxsfulbgkpgakfugxzuvb
aricluaagbkgulasu?ggRgmvnug.uulgaricgkpbulgulksxm,gvl gmvnugvoqvtagpksl 
ftgaricluaauaguvatgulksxmgbkg.ugaswwkzbu g(bmksxmgRgmvnugfv ugbzrvogkp
vofkabgvoogakzba),gvl gvagamkzbgvagbmkaugkpgvltgkbmuz,gqrbmksbgbmurz
muow,gkzgqrbmksbgaqvookqrlxgbmurzgroo-bvabrlxg kauajggBmugmuvobmgRgmvnu
ragpsoogvl gpzuu,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgzsougkzg rairworlugbmvlgftgkqlgisabkfgvl 
wouvaszujggUnuztgwoviugauznuagfugquoogulksxmgbkgabvtgrl,gpkzgRgluu glk
kbmuzgiklnulruliua,gqmulgRgvfgaric,gbmvlgqmvbgRgfsabgmvnugqmulgRgvfgquooj
Rglunuzg rabsz.gftauopgbmvbgRgmvnuglkgwmtarirvl,glkgvwkbmuivzt,glkzgvlt
kbmuzgvaarabvliu,gqmrimgRgauugfkabgkbmuzgaricgfulgfkzugvpporibu gvbgbmvl
bmutgvzugqrbmgbmurzg rauvaujggQmvb!gg kgbmug kibkzagbmufauonuagamkqgsa
fkzugpuorirbtgvl g szvbrklgrlgbmurzgkqlgornua,gbmvbgfvtgfvlrpuabgbkgsa
akfugvwwvzulbguppuibgkpgbmurzgacroo?

Bmuzugraglkbgvglvbrklgrlgbmugqkzo gbmvbgmvaglkbg.uulgfvltgvxuagqrbmksb
wmtari;gvl gbmuaugbmugprzabgvxua,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmug.uabgvl gfkab
mvwwt;gvl gbmugbulbmgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gclkqaglkbmrlxgkpgrbgtub;gfvlt
lvbrklagvzugrxlkzvlbgkpgrbgbkgbmrag vt,gqmuzugfulgornugfkzugmuvobmpsogvl 
oklxuzgbmvlgqug kgmuzu,gvl gunulgvfklxabgsagbmugikffklgwukwougornugquoo
ulksxmgqrbmksbgrbjggBmugZkfvlagquzugarhgmsl zu gtuvzag.upkzugbmut
zuiurnu grb;gvl gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugbzrvogkpgrb,g.vlramu grbgpzkfgbmugirbt
vbgbmugrlabvliugkpgIvbkgbmugIulakz,gqmkgfv ugrbgvwwuvzgmkqguvatgrbgqvagbk
ornugqrbmksbgrb,gmvnrlxgmrfauopgornu gpkszaikzugvl gprnugtuvza,gvl gcuwb
mragqrpugvornugbkgvlguhbzufugko gvxu,glkbgqrbmksbgwmtari,g.sbgqrbmksbgv
wmtarirvl:gpkzgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgqugprl gbkg.ugmuvobmpsogbkgorpugfvtg.u
ivoou gwmtarijggMugcuwbgmragpvfrotgrlgmuvobm,gvagWosbvzimgavtagrpgR
frabvcuglkb,gqrbmgmvzu’agfroc;gvagWorltgzuwkzba,ggbmvbgbmugVziv rvla
iszu gvoogfvlluzgkpg rauvauagqrbmgbmvbgkpgvgikq;gvl gMuzk kbsagavta,gbmu
Ot.rvlagxuluzvootgulyktgzvzugmuvobm,g.tgvgisabkfgbmutgmvnu,gvpbuzgbmurz
imro zulgvzugvzzrnu gbkgpkszgtuvzagkpgvxu,gbkg.szlgvl givsbuzraugbmu
nurlagkpgbmurzgmuv gvl gbufwoua,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmutgisbgkppgvoo
 uposhrklagkpgzmusfgpkzgbmurzgqmkougornuajggVl gbmugikslbztgwukwougkpgksz
wzknrliugfvcugsaugkpglkbmrlx,grlgvoogakzbagkpg rabufwuza,g.sbgbmu
abzklxuabgqrlugbmutgivlgxub,gfrhu gqrbmgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgavppzklgvl 
awriu,gvl gvoqvtagqrbmgbmugavfugasiiuaaj

Vl gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gkpgvoogbmrag rnuzarbtgvl giklpsarklgkp
wzuaizrwbrkla,gqmvbgkbmuzgul gvl guppuibgragbmuzugvpbuzgvoo,g.sbgbkgwszxu
bmug.uoot?ggqmrimgvgbmksavl gkz rlvztgarfwouagqroog kgvagquoo;gvl gRg k
lkbgclkqgqmubmuzgasimgunvisvbrklag.ugakgfsimgbkgkszgv nvlbvxugvagbmut
wzubul ,gvl gqmubmuzglvbszug kuaglkbgzuesrzugvgzuar uliugkpgmuz
uhizufulbagbkgvgiuzbvrlgwzkwkzbrkl,gvagqrlug kuagkpgrbagouuagbkgcuuwgrb
vornu:gtksgkpbulgauugmuvobmpsogfulgpvoogrlbkgnkfrbrlxagvl gposhuagkpgbmu
.uootg.tgakfuguhbzrlarigviir ulb,gvl gfvcugvgxzuvbgunvisvbrklgkp
uhizufulba,gqrbmksbgvltgwzuiu rlxgluu ,gkzgvltgpkookqrlxg.uluprb,g.sb
zvbmuzgqrbmgmszbgbkgbmurzgiklabrbsbrkljgg‘BragpzkfgbmugxzuvbgWovbk,gbmvb
Rgovbuotgouvzlu ,gbmvbgkpgbmzuugakzbagkpgfkbrklagqmrimgvzuglvbszvogbkgsa,
wszxrlxgragbmugqkzab,gvl gbmvbglkgfvl,gslouaagmug.ugvgpkko,gksxmbgbkgbvcu
vltbmrlxgbkgbmvbgwszwkaug.sbgrlgbmuguhbzufuabgluiuaarbtjggFulg rabsz.gvl 
rzzrbvbugbmug rauvaug.tgiklbzvztgkwwkarbrkla;grbgfsabg.ugbmugqvtgkp
ornrlxgbmvbgfsabgxulbotg raakonu,gvl g.zrlxgrbgbkgrbagul jggBmugnrkoulb
xzrwrlxagvl giklbuabg.ubqrhbgbmug zsxgvl gbmug rauvaugvzugunuzgbkgksz
okaa,garliugbmugikf.vbgragpksxmbgqrbmrlgkszauonua,gvl gbmvbgbmug zsxgra
vlgvaarabvlbglkbgbkg.ugbzsabu ,g.urlxgrlgrbagkqlglvbszugvlguluftgbkgksz
muvobm,gvl g.tgbzks.ougmvnrlxgklotgviiuaagrlbkgkszgikl rbrkljggOubgrb
voklugvgorbbou;gbmugxuluzvogkz uzgkpgbmrlxagbmvbgbvcuagivzugkpgpouvagvl 
fkoua,gvoakgbvcuagivzugkpgful,grpgbmutgqroogmvnugbmugavfugwvbruliugbmvb
pouvagvl gfkouagmvnu,gbkgouvnugrbgbkgrbauopjgg‘Bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugqugizt
ksbg“.rmkzu,”--[Vgbuzfgsau g.tgbmugOvlxsu kigqvxxkluzagbkgmvabulgbmurz
mkzaua]--‘bragvgqvtgbkgfvcugsagmkvzau,g.sbglkbgbkgmvabulgbmugfvbbuzj
‘Bragvgwzks gvl gslikfwvaarklvbugkz uz:gkszgpuvza,gkszg uawvrzg rawouvau
vl gabkwgrbgpzkf,grlabuv gkpgrlnrbrlxgrbgbk,gkszgzuorup;grbgkquagrba
ikszaugbkgbmug rauvau,gvagquoogvagbkgmuvobm;gvl gqrooglkbgasppuzgrbauop
bkg.ugikzzswbu grlgpvnkszgkpgbmugklugbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmugkbmuz’a
zrxmb,gpkzgrbgqkso gbmulgpvoogrlbkg rakz uzjggOubgsa,grlgXk ’aglvfu,
pkookqgrb;grbgouv agbmkaugbmvbgpkookq,gvl gbmkaugqmkgqrooglkbgpkookq,grb
 zvxagvoklx,g.kbmgbmurzgpsztgvl gwmtarigbkxubmuzjggKz uzgvgwszxugpkzgtksz
.zvrl,grbgqroogbmuzug.ugfsimg.ubbuzgufwoktu gbmvlgswklgtkszgabkfvimj

KlugvacrlxgvgOviu vufklrvlgqmvbgmv gfv ugmrfgornugakgoklx,gmugfv u
vlaquz,g“bmugrxlkzvliugkpgwmtari”;gvl gbmugUfwuzkzgV zrvlgiklbrlsvoot
uhiovrfu gvagmugqvag trlx,gbmvbgbmugizkq gkpgwmtarirvlagmv gcroou gmrfj
Vg.v gqzuabouzgbszlu gwmtarirvl:g“Ikszvxu,”gavtag rkxuluagbkgmrf;g“bmks
mvabg klugquoo,gpkzglkqgbmksgqroogbmzkqgbmkaugqmkgmvnugpkzfuzotgbmzkql
bmuuj”gg.sbgbmutgmvnugbmragv nvlbvxu,gviikz rlxgbkgLrikioua,gbmvbgbmugasl
xrnuagorxmbgbkgbmurzgasiiuaagvl gbmuguvzbmgiknuzagbmurzgpvroszuajggVl ,
.uar ua,gbmutgmvnugvgnuztgv nvlbvxuksagqvtgkpgfvcrlxgsaugkpgvoogakzbagkp
unulba:gpkzgqmvbgpkzbslu,glvbszu,gkzgvltgkbmuzgivsaug(kpgqmrimgbmuglsf.uz
ragrlprlrbu),gwzk sibagkpgxkk gvl gmuvobmpsogrlgsa,grbgragbmugwzrnrouxu
kpgwmtarigbkgvbbzr.sbugbkgrbauop;gvoogbmugmvwwtgasiiuaauagbmvbgmvwwulgbk
bmugwvbrulb,gfsabg.ugbmuliug uzrnu ;gbmugviir ulbagbmvbgmvnugiszu gfu,
vl gvgbmksavl gkbmuza,gqmkg kglkbgufwoktgwmtarirvla,gwmtarirvlagsaszwgbk
bmufauonua:gvl gvagbkgroogviir ulba,gbmutgurbmuzgv.akosbuotg rakqlgbmuf,
rlgovtrlxgbmugpvsobgswklgbmugwvbrulb,g.tgasimgpzrnkoksagzuvaklagvagbmut
vzuglunuzgvbgvgokaagpkz;gvag“mugovtgqrbmgmragvzfagksbgkpg.u ,”gkzg“mugqva
 rabsz.u gqrbmgbmugzvbborlxgkpgvgikvim:”

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Zmu vzsfgbzvlarbsagvzibk
gggggggggggggggggggggggggNrikzsfgrlpouhs:”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bmugwvaavxugkpgbmugqmuuoagrlgbmuglvzzkq
gggggggggggggggbszlrlxgkpgbmugabzuub”--Ysnulvo,grrrjg236j]

kzg“akfu.k tgmv gaubgkwulgbmugivaufulb,”gkzg“mugmv govrlgswklgmragoupb
ar u,”gkzg“mugmv gakfug ravxzuuv.ougpvliruagrlgmragmuv ”:grlgasf,gvgqkz ,
vg zuvf,gkzgvgokkc,gauufagbkgbmufguhisaugaspprirulbgqmuzuqrbmgbkgwvoorvbu
bmurzgkqlguzzkza:gkz,grpgbmutgakgwouvau,gbmutgunulgfvcugsaugkpgksz
xzkqrlxgqkzau,gvl g kgbmurzg.sarluaagrlgbmragqvtgqmrimgivlglunuzgpvro
bmuf:gqmrimgrag.tg.sddrlxgsagrlgbmuguvz,gqmulgbmug rauvaugragfkzu
rlpovfu g.tgbmurzgfu rivfulba,gbmvbgrbgmv g.uulgfsimgqkzaug.sbgpkzgbmkau
zufu rua;gmu,gqmkfgpzkfgvlgkz rlvztgiko gbmutgmvnugbmzkqlgrlbkgvg ks.ou
buzbrvl-vxsu,gmv g.sbgpkzgbmufg.uulgrlgvgiklbrlsu gpunuzjggBmutg kglkb
fsimgivzugqmvbgfraimrupgbmutg k,garliugrbgbszlagbkgbmurzgkqlgwzkprbj
Rlguvzluab,gbmutgmvnugzuvaklgbkgzuesrzugvgnuztgpvnkszv.oug.uorupgpzkf
bmurzgwvbrulba;gvl ,grl uu ,grbgksxmbgbkg.ugvgnuztguvatgklu,gbkgaqvookq
bmrlxagakgmvz gbkg.ug.uorunu jggWovbkgavr gnuztgquoo,gbmvbgwmtarirvla
quzugbmugklotgfulgqmkgfrxmbgorugvbgwouvaszu,garliugkszgmuvobmg uwul a
swklgbmugnvlrbtgvl gpvoarbtgkpgbmurzgwzkfrauaj

VUakw,gvgfkabguhiuooulbgvsbmkz,gvl gkpgqmkfgpuqgfulg raiknuzgvoogbmu
xzviua,gwouvavlbotgzuwzuaulbagbkgsagbmugbtzvllrivogvsbmkzrbtgwmtarirvla
saszwgknuzgwkkzgizuvbszua,gquvculu gvl gas. su g.tgaricluaagvl gpuvz,
qmulgmugbuooagsa,gbmvbgvgaricgwuzakl,g.urlxgvacu g.tgmragwmtarirvlgqmvb
kwuzvbrklgmugpksl gkpgbmugwkbrklgmugmv gxrnulgmrf:g“Rgmvnugaquvbu gnuzt
fsim,”gavtagbmugaricgfvljgg“Bmvb’agxkk ,”gavtagbmugwmtarirvljggVlkbmuz
brfu,gmvnrlxgvacu gmkqgmugpuobgmrfauopgvpbuzgmragwmtari:g“Rgmvnug.uul
nuztgiko ,gvl gmvnugmv gvgxzuvbgamrnuzrlxgswklgfu,”gavr gmujgg“Bmvbgra
xkk ,”gzuworu gbmugwmtarirvljggVpbuzgbmugbmrz gwkbrkl,gmugvacu gmrfgvxvrl
mkqgmug r :g“Qmt,gRgprl gftauopgaqkooulgvl gwsppu gsw,”gavr gmu,g“vagrp
Rgmv gvg zkwatj”--“Bmvbgragnuztgquoo,”gavr gbmugwmtarirvljggKlugkpgmra
auznvlbagikfrlxgwzuaulbotgvpbuzgbkgrlesrzugmkqgmugpuobgmrfauop,g“Bzsot,
pzrul ,”gavr gmu,g“qrbmg.urlxgbkkgquoogRgvfgv.ksbgbkg ruj”

BmuzugqvagvgfkzugysabgovqgrlgUxtwb,g.tgqmrimgbmugwmtarirvl,gpkzgbmugbmzuu
przabg vta,gqvagbkgbvcugimvzxugkpgmragwvbrulbgvbgbmugwvbrulb’agkqlgzrac
vl gikab;g.sb,gbmkaugbmzuug vtag.urlxgwvab,grbgqvagbkg.ugvbgmragkqljggPkz
qmvbgzuvaklgragrbgbmvbgbmurzgwvbzkl,gVUaisovwrsa,gamkso g.ugabzsicgqrbm
bmsl uzgpkzgzuabkzrlxgMrwwkorbsagpzkfg uvbmgbkgorpu:

ggggggggg“LvfgWvbuzgkflrwkbula,gvoresufgrl rxlvbsagv.gsf.zra
ggggggggggFkzbvoufgrlpuzlragv gosfrlvgaszxuzugnrbvu,
ggggggggggRwaugzuwuzbkzufgfu rirlvugbvora,gubgvzbra
ggggggggggPsofrlugWmku.rxulvfgAbtxrvag ubzsarbgv gsl va;”

ggggg[“BmulgbmugVofrxmbtgPvbmuz,gkppul u gbmvbgvltgfkzbvogamkso gzraugbk
gggggbmugorxmbgkpgorpugpzkfgbmugrlpuzlvogamv ua,gabzsicgbmugaklgkp
gggggWmku.sagqrbmgmragpkzcu gorxmblrlxgbkgbmugAbtxrvlgovcuj”
gggggg--VUlur ,gnrrjg770j]

vl gmragpkookquzag.ugwvz klu ,gqmkgaul gakgfvltgaksoagpzkfgorpugbkg uvbm?
Vgwmtarirvl,g.kvabrlxgbkgLrikiouagbmvbgmragvzbgqvagkpgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbt:
“Rbgragak,grl uu ,”gavr gLrikioua,g“bmvbgivlgqrbmgrfwslrbtgcroogakgfvlt
wukwouj”

Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,gmv gRg.uulgkpgbmurzgikslauo,gRgqkso gmvnugzul uzu gft
 rairworlugfkzugavizu gvl gftabuzrksa;gbmutg.uxslgquoo,g.sbgbmutgmvnuglkb
ul u gakjggRbgqvagvgxkk g.uxrllrlxgbkgfvcugxk agvl g ufklagbmugvsbmkzagkp
bmurzgairuliu,gvl gbkgmvnugsau gvgwuisorvzgqvtgkpgawuvcrlxgvl gqzrbrlx,
lkbqrbmabvl rlxgbmvbgwmrokakwmtgiklios uagrbgpkootgbkgwuzasv ugvgfvlgbk
mragkqlgxkk g.tgvlgslrlbuoorxr.ougqvt:gg“Sbgargesragfu risagrfwuzub,gsb
asfvb:”


ggggg“Buzzrxulvf,gmuz.rxzv vf,g kfrwkzbvf,gavlxsrlugivaavfj”

ggggg[“ uaizr.rlxgrbg.tgbmuguwrbmubagkpgvlgvlrfvogbzvrorlxgqrbmgrbagaorfu
gggggknuzgbmugmuz.vxu,gqrbmksbg.okk gkzg.klua,gvl givzztrlxgrbagmksau
gggggswklgrbag.vic,gfuvlrlxgarfwotgvgalvroj”--Ikabu]

Rbgqvagvgxkk gzsougrlgbmurzgvzb,gvl gbmvbgviikfwvlruagvoogkbmuzgnvrl,
pvlbvabri,gvl gaswuzlvbszvogvzba,gbmvbgbmugwvbrulb’ag.uorupgamkso 
wzuwkaauaagbmufgqrbmgxkk gmkwugvl gvaaszvliugkpgbmurzguppuibagvl 
kwuzvbrkl:gvgzsougbmutgmko gbkgbmvbg uxzuu,gvagbkgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgbmugfkab
rluhwuzbgvl grxlkzvlbgwmtarirvlgragfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgvgwvbrulbgqmkgmva
iklpr uliugrlgmrf,gbmvlgbmugfkabgouvzlu gvl guhwuzruliu gqmkfgmugraglkb
akgviesvrlbu gqrbmjggLvt,gunulgbmugnuztgimkriugkpgfkabgkpgbmurzg zsxagra
rlgakfugakzbgftabuzrksagvl g rnrlu;gbmugoupbgpkkbgkpgvgbkzbkrau,gbmu
szrlugkpgvgordvz ,gbmug slxgkpgvlguouwmvlb,gbmugornuzgkpgvgfkou,g.okk 
 zvqlgpzkfgsl uzgbmugzrxmbgqrlxgkpgvgqmrbugwrxukl;gvl gpkzgsagqmkgmvnu
bmugabklug(akgaikzlpsootgbmutgsaugsagrlgkszgfrauzrua)gbmuguhizufulbgkp
zvbag.uvbulgbkgwkq uz,gvl gasimgorcugbzvamgvl gpkkouzruagqmrimgzvbmuz
ivzztgvgpviugkpgfvxrivogulimvlbfulbgbmvlgkpgvltgakor gairuliujggRgkfrb
bmugk  glsf.uzgkpgbmurzgwrooa,gbmug uabrlvbrklgkpgiuzbvrlg vtagvl gpuvaba
kpgbmugtuvz,gbmugaswuzabrbrklgkpgxvbmuzrlxgbmurzgarfwouagvbgiuzbvrl
mksza,gvl gbmvbgakgvsabuzugvl gnuztgqraugikslbulvliugvl givzzrvxugqmrim
Worltgmrfauopgakgfsimg uzr uajgg.sbgbmutgmvnu,gvagRgavr ,gpvrou grlgbmvb
bmutgmvnuglkbgv  u gbkgbmragprlug.uxrllrlxgbmugfvcrlxgbmurzgfuubrlxagvl 
iklasobvbrklagfkzugzuorxrksagvl gauizub,gqmuzuglkgwzkpvlugwuzaklgamkso 
mvnugv fraarkl,glkgfkzugbmvlgrlgbmugauizubgiuzufklruagkpgVUaisovwrsa;gpkz
.tgbmugzuvaklgkpgbmragrbgpvooagksbgbmvbgbmurzgrzzuakosbrkl,gbmugquvcluaa
kpgbmurzgvzxsfulba,g rnrlvbrklagvl gpksl vbrkla,gbmugamvzwluaagkpgbmurz
 rawsbua,gpsoogkpgmvbzu ,gyuvoksat,gvl gauop-iklar uzvbrkl,gikfrlxgbkg.u
 raiknuzu g.tgunuztgklu,gvgfvlgfsabg.ugfvznuooksaotg.orl glkbgbkgauugbmvb
mugzslagvgnuztgxzuvbgmvdvz grlgbmurzgmvl ajggQmkgunuzgavqgklugwmtarirvl
vwwzknugkpgvlkbmuz’agwzuaizrwbrkl,gqrbmksbgbvcrlxgakfubmrlxgvqvt,gkz
v  rlxgakfubmrlxgbkgrb?g.tgqmrimgbmutgaspprirulbotg.ubzvtgbmurzgbzrica,
vl gfvcugrbgfvlrpuabgbkgsagbmvbgbmutgbmuzurlgfkzugiklar uzgbmurzgkql
zuwsbvbrkl,gvl giklauesulbotgbmurzgwzkprb,gbmvlgbmurzgwvbrulb’agrlbuzuabj
Mugqvagvgfsimgqrauzgfvlgkpgbmurzgbzr.u,gqmkgkpgko gxvnugrbgvagvgzsou,
bmvbgklotgklugwmtarirvlgamkso gsl uzbvcugvgaricgwuzakl;gpkzgrpgmug k
lkbmrlxgbkgwszwkau,gklugarlxougfvl’ag upvsobgivlg.zrlxglkgxzuvbgaivl vo
swklgbmugvzbgkpgfu rirlu;gvl ,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmugxokztgqroog.ugxzuvb
rpgmugmvwwulgbkgmvnugasiiuaa;gqmuzuva,gqmulgbmuzugvzugfvlt,gbmutgvbgunuzt
bszlg.zrlxgvg razuwsbugswklgbmurzgivoorlx,gpkzvafsimgvagbmutgkpbuluzg k
mszbgbmvlgxkk jggBmutgksxmbgbkg.ugavbrapru gqrbmgbmugwuzwubsvo
 ravxzuufulbgqmrimgragpksl grlgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmugwzrlirwvogfvabuzagvl 
vlirulbgvsbmkzagkpgbmragairuliu,gqmrimgragklotgclkqlgbkgfulgquoogzuv ,
qrbmksbg raiknuzrlxgbkgbmugnsoxvzgbmugiklbzknuzaruagvl gnvzrksagys xfulba
qmrimgbmutgabrooglkszramgvl giklbrlsugvfklxabgbmufauonuaj

Qroogtksgmvnugkluguhvfwougkpgbmugvlirulbgiklbzknuzatgrlgwmtari?
Muzkwmrosagok xuagbmugkzrxrlvogivsaugkpgvoog rauvauagrlgbmugmsfksza;
Uzvarabzvbsa,grlgbmug.okk gkpgbmugvzbuzrua;gVaiouwrv ua,grlgbmugrlnrar.ou
vbkfagkpgbmugwkzua;gVoifvukl,grlgbmuguhs.uzvliugkzg upuibgkpgkszg.k rot
abzulxbm;g rkioua,grlgbmugrluesvorbtgkpgbmuguoufulbagkpgqmrimgbmug.k tgra
ikfwkau ,gvl grlgbmugesvorbtgkpgbmugvrzgqug.zuvbmu;gAbzvbk,grlgbmu
v.sl vliu,gizs rbt,gvl gikzzswbrklgkpgbmuglkszramfulbgqugbvcu;gvl 
Mrwwkizvbuagok xuagrbgrlgbmugawrzrbajggBmuzugragvgiuzbvrlgpzrul gkp
bmurza,--[Iuoasa,gWzupviugbkgbmugPrzabg.kkcj]--qmkfgbmutgclkqg.ubbuz
bmvlgR,gqmkg uiovzuagswklgbmragas.yuib,g“bmvbgbmugfkabgrfwkzbvlbgairuliu
rlgwzvibriugvfklxabgsa,gvagbmvbgqmrimgragrlbzsabu gqrbmgkszgmuvobmgvl 
iklauznvbrkl,gra,g.tgroogosic,gbmugfkabgsliuzbvrl,gbmugfkabgwuzwouhu ,
vl gvxrbvbu gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuabgfsbvbrklaj”ggBmuzugraglkgxzuvbg vlxuzgrl
kszgfrabvcrlxgbmugmurxmbgkpgbmugasl,gkzgbmugpzvibrklgkpgakfugvabzklkfrivo
aswwsbvbrkl;g.sbgmuzu,gqmuzugkszgqmkoug.urlxgragikliuzlu ,g‘braglkb
qra kfgbkgv.vl klgkszauonuagbkgbmugfuzitgkpgbmugvxrbvbrklgkpgakgfvlt
iklbzvztgqrl aj

.upkzugbmugWuokwklluarvlgqvzgbmuzugqvaglkgxzuvbgbvocgkpgbmragairuliuj
Mrwwkizvbuag.zksxmbgrbgrlbkgzuwsbu;gqmvbunuzgmuguabv.oramu ,gImztarwwsa
knuzbmzuq;gvpbuzgbmvb,gUzvarabzvbsa,gVzrabkbou’agxzvl akl,gknuzbmzuqgqmvb
Imztarwwsagmv gqzrbbul;gvpbuzgbmuau,gbmugUfwrzriagabvzbu gsw,gqmkgbkkcgv
esrbugiklbzvztgqvtgbkgbmugvlirulbagrlgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgbmragvzb;gqmul
bmugizu rbgkpgbmuaug.uxvlgvgorbbougbkg uivt,gMuzkwmrosagaubgvlkbmuzgakzb
kpgwzvibriugklgpkkb,gqmrimgVaiouwrv uagrlgbszlgabkk gswgvxvrlab,gvl 
knuzbmzuq;gbmul,grlgbmurzgbszl,gbmugkwrlrklagprzabgkpgBmufrak,gvl gbmul
kpgFsav,gvl gvpbuzgbmvbgbmkaugkpgNuibrsagNvoula,gvgwmtarirvlgpvfksa
bmzksxmgbmugrlbuoorxuliugmugmv gqrbmgFuaavorlv,givfugrlgnkxsu;gbmugufwrzu
kpgwmtarigrlgLuzk’agbrfugqvaguabv.oramu grlgBmuaavosa,gqmkgv.koramu gvl 
ikl uflu gvoogbmvbgmv g.uulgmuo gbroogmragbrfu;gbmragfvl’ag kibzrlugqva
zupsbu g.tgIzrlvagkpgFvzaurooua,gqmkgprzabg.zksxmbgvoogfu rirlvo
kwuzvbrklagsl uzgbmugUwmufuzr uagvl gfkbrklagkpgbmugabvza,gvl gzu siu 
uvbrlx,gaouuwrlx,gvl g zrlcrlxgbkgmkszagbmvbgquzugfkabgwouvarlxgbk
Fuzisztgvl gbmugfkkl;gmragvsbmkzrbtgqvagakklgvpbuzgaswwovlbu g.t
Imvzrlsa,gvgwmtarirvlgkpgbmugavfugirbtgkpgFvzaurooua,gvgfvlgqmkglkbgklot
iklbzknuzbu gvoogbmugvlirulbgfubmk agkpgwmtari,g.sbgfkzuknuzgbmugsavxugkp
mkbg.vbma,gbmvbgmv g.uulgxuluzvootgvl gpkzgakgfvltgvxuagrlgikffklgsau;gmu
fv ugfulg.vbmugrlgiko gqvbuz,gunulgrlgqrlbuz,gvl gwoslxu gmragaric
wvbrulbagrlgbmuglvbszvogqvbuzagkpgabzuvfajggLkgZkfvlgbroogWorlt’agbrfu
mv gunuzgnksimavpu gbkgwzvibraugwmtari;gbmvbgkppriugqvagklotgwuzpkzfu 
.tgXzuucagvl gpkzurxluza,gvag‘braglkqgvfklxabgsagPzulim,g.tgbmkaugqmk
awsbbuzgOvbrl;gpkz,gvagvgnuztgxzuvbgwmtarirvlgavta,gqug kglkbguvarot
viiuwbgbmugfu rirlugqugsl uzabvl ,glkgfkzugbmvlgqug kgbmug zsxagqu
kszauonuagxvbmuzjggRpgbmuglvbrklagqmuliugqugpubimgkszgxsvrvisf,
avzavwvzroov,gvl gImrlvgqkk ,gmvnugwmtarirvla,gmkqgxzuvbgvgnvosugfsabgqu
rfvxrlu,g.tgbmugavfugzuikfful vbrklgkpgabzvlxuluaa,gzvzrbt,gvl g uvz
wszimvau,g kgbmutgaubgswklgkszgiv..vxugvl gwvzaout?ggpkzgqmkgqkso g vzu
bkgiklbuflgbmrlxagakgpvzgpubimu ,gvl gaksxmbgksbgvbgbmugmvdvz gkpgakgoklx
vl g vlxuzksagvgnktvxu?

Arliugbmuaugvlirulbgfsbvbrklagrlgwmtari,gbmuzugmvnug.uulgrlprlrbugkbmuza
 kqlgbkgkszgkqlgbrfua,gvl ,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gfsbvbrklagulbrzugvl 
slrnuzavo,gvagbmkau,gpkzguhvfwou,gwzk siu g.tgWvzviuoasa,gPrkzvnvlbr,gvl 
Vzxulbruz;gpkzgbmut,gvagRgvfgbko ,glkbgklotgvobuzgklugzuirwu,g.sbgbmu
qmkougiklbuhbszugvl gzsouagkpgbmug.k tgkpgwmtari,gviisarlxgvoogkbmuzagkp
rxlkzvliugvl grfwkarbrklgqmkgmvnugwzvibrau g.upkzugbmufjggVbgbmragzvbu,
rlgqmvbgvgikl rbrklgbmugwkkzgwvbrulbgfsabg.u,gRgouvnugtksgbkgys xuj

Rpgqugquzugunulgvaaszu gbmvb,gqmulgbmutgfvcugvgfrabvcu,gbmvbgfrabvcugkp
bmurzagqkso g kgsaglkgmvzf,gbmksxmgrbg r gsaglkgxkk ,grbgquzugv
zuvaklv.oug.vzxvrlgbkgnulbszugbmugfvcrlxgkszauonuag.ubbuzgqrbmksbgvlt
 vlxuzgkpg.urlxgfv ugqkzaujggVUakwgbuooagvgabkzt,gbmvbgklugqmkgmv g.ksxmb
vgFkzraikgaovnu,g.uorunrlxgbmvbgmrag.ovicgikfwouhrklgmv gvzzrnu g.t
viir ulbgvl gbmugroogsavxugkpgmragpkzfuzgfvabuz,givsau gmrfgbkgulbuzgqrbm
xzuvbgivzugrlbkgvgikszaugkpg.vbmagvl gwkbrkla:grbgmvwwulu gbmvbgbmugFkkz
qvaglkbmrlxgvful u grlgmragbvqltgikfwouhrkl,g.sbgmugqmkootgokabgmra
pkzfuzgmuvobmjggMkqgkpbulg kgqugauugwmtarirvlagrfwsbugbmug uvbmgkpgbmurz
wvbrulbagbkgklugvlkbmuz?ggRgzufuf.uzgbmvbgakfugtuvzagvxkgbmuzugqvagvl
uwr ufrivog rauvau,gnuztg vlxuzksagvl gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgfkzbvo,gbmvb
zvxu grlgbmugbkqlagv.ksbgsa:gbmugabkzfg.urlxgknuzgqmrimgmv gaquwbgvqvtgvl
rlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgful,gklugkpgbmugfkabgpvfksagwmtarirvlagkpgvoogbmu
ikslbzt,gwzuaulbotgvpbuzgws.oramu gvg.kkcgswklgbmvbgas.yuib,gqmuzurl,
swklg.ubbuzgbmksxmba,gmugiklpuaauagbmvbgbmugoubbrlxg.okk grlgbmvbg rauvau
qvagbmugwzrlirwvogivsaugkpgakgfvltgframvwajggFkzuknuz,gbmurzgvsbmkzagmko 
bmvbgbmuzugraglkgwmtarigbmvbgmvaglkbgakfubmrlxgmszbpsogrlgrbjggVl grp
unulgbmkaugkpgbmug.uabgkwuzvbrklgrlgakfugfuvaszugkppul gsa,gqmvbgfsab
bmkaug kgbmvbgvzugbkbvootgfravwworu ?ggPkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gbmksxmgbmuzugquzu
lkbmrlxguoaugrlgbmugivau,gRgvfgkpgkwrlrkl,gbmvbgbkgbmkaugqmkgokvbmugbmu
bvabugkpgwmtari,grbgfsabgluu ag.ugvg vlxuzksagvl gwzuys rirvogul uvnksz
bkgpkziugrbg kqlgvbgakgrlikffk rksagvgbrfu,gvl gqrbmgakgfsimgvnuzarkl,
vl g.uorunugbmvbgrbgfvznuooksaotg rabufwuzagvgaricgwuzaklgvbgvgbrfugqmul
mugmvagakgfsimgluu gkpgzuwkaujggVl gfkzugknuz,grpgqug.sbgiklar uzgbmu
kiivarklagswklgqmrimgbmutgsasvootgxzksl gbmugivsaugkpgkszg rauvaua,gbmut
vzugakgorxmbgvl glriu,gbmvbgRgbmuliugiklios ugvgnuztgorbbouguzzkzgrlgbmu
 rawulavbrklgkpgbmurzg zsxagfvtg kgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgfraimrupjggLkq,grpgbmu
frabvcugkpgvgwmtarirvlg.ugakg vlxuzksa,gqugvzugrlg.sbgvgaiszntgikl rbrkl;
pkzgrbgragvofkabgrfwkaar.oug.sbgmugfsabgkpbulgpvoogrlbkgbmkaugfrabvcua:
mugmv gluu gkpgbkkgfvltgwvzba,giklar uzvbrkla,gvl girzisfabvliua,gzrxmbot
bkgounuogmrag uarxl:gmugfsabgclkqgbmugaricgwuzakl’agikfwouhrkl,gmra
bufwuzvfulb,gmragmsfksza,grliorlvbrkla,gvibrkla,glvt,gmragnuztgbmksxmba
vl grfvxrlvbrkla;gmugfsabg.ugvaaszu gkpgbmuguhbuzlvogirzisfabvliua,gkp
bmuglvbszugkpgbmugwoviu,gbmugesvorbtgkpgbmugvrzgvl gauvakl,gbmugarbsvbrkl
kpgbmugwovluba,gvl gbmurzgrlposuliua:gmugfsabgclkqgrlgbmug rauvau,gbmu
ivsaua,gwzkxlkabria,gvppuibrkla,gvl gizrbrivog vta;grlgbmug zsxa,gbmu
qurxmb,gbmugwkquzgkpgqkzcrlx,gbmugikslbzt,gprxszu,gvxu,gvl g rawulavbrkl,
vl gmugfsabgclkqgmkqgzrxmbotgbkgwzkwkzbrklgvl gfrhgbmufgbkxubmuz,gbk
.uxubgvgysabgvl gwuzpuibgatffubzt;gqmuzurlgrpgbmuzug.ugbmugouvabguzzkz,
rpgvfklxabgakgfvltgawzrlxagbmuzug.ug.sbgvltgklugksbgkpgkz uz,g‘bragulksxm
bkg uabzktgsajggXk gclkqagqrbmgmkqgxzuvbg rpprisobtgfkabgkpgbmuaugbmrlxa
vzugbkg.ugsl uzabkk :gpkzg(pkzguhvfwou)gmkqgamvoogbmugwmtarirvlgprl gksb
bmugbzsugarxlgkpgbmug rauvau,gunuztg rauvaug.urlxgivwv.ougkpgvlgrlprlrbu
lsf.uzgkpgrl rivbrkla?ggMkqgfvltg ks.bagvl giklbzknuzaruagmvnugbmut
vfklxabgbmufauonuagswklgbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgszrlua?gkbmuzqrau,gqmuliu
amkso gbmugiklbrlsvog u.vbuagqugauugvfklxabgbmufgv.ksbgbmugclkqou xugkp
bmug rauvaugwzkiuu ?gmkqgikso gquguhisaugbmuguzzkzgbmutgakgkpbgpvoogrlbk,
kpgbvcrlxgpkhgpkzgfvzbul?ggRlgbmug rauvauagRgmvnugmv ,gbmksxmgbmuzugquzu
unuzgakgorbboug rpprisobtgrlgbmugivau,gRglunuzgpksl gbmzuugkpgklu
kwrlrkl:gqmrimgRgrlabvliu,g.uivsaugRgoknugbkgrlbzk siuguhvfwouagqmuzurlgR
vfgftauopgikliuzlu j

VgxulboufvlgvbgWvzragqvagovbuotgisbgpkzgbmugabklug.tgkz uzgkpgbmu
wmtarirvla,grlgqmkaug.ov  uz,g.urlxgviikz rlxotgakgisb,gbmuzugqvagpksl 
lkgfkzugabklugbmvlgrlgbmugwvofgkpgmragmvl ;gvl grlgbmugavfugwoviugv
.ramkw,gqmkgqvagftgwvzbrisovzgpzrul ,gmvnrlxg.uulguvzluabotgwzuaau g.t
bmugfvykzrbtgkpgbmugwmtarirvlagqmkfgmugiklasobu ,gbkgasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.u
isb,gbkgqmrimgvoak,gswklgbmurzgqkz ,gRgsau gftgrlbuzuabgbkgwuzasv ugmrf,
qmulgmugqvag uv gvl gkwulu ,grbgvwwuvzu gbmvbgmugmv glkgfvov tg.sbgrlgbmu
cr lutajggBmutgvzugouvabguhisav.ougpkzgvltguzzkzgrlgbmrag rauvau,g.t
zuvaklgbmvbgrbgragrlgakfugakzbgwvowv.ou;gvl g‘bragbmuliugbmvbgRgiklios u
aszxuztgbkg.ugfsimgfkzugiuzbvrl,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgrbgauuagvl gpuuoagqmvbgrb
 kua,gvl gakgxkuagouaagswklgiklyuibszu;gqmuzuvagbmugwmtarirvlagmvnuglk
‘awuisosfgfvbzrira’,g.tgqmrimgbkguhvfrlugkszg.zvrla,goslxa,gvl gornuzj

Unulgbmugnuztgwzkfrauagkpgwmtarigvzugrlizu r.ougrlgbmufauonua;gpkz,
mvnrlxgbkgwzknr ugvxvrlabg rnuzagvl giklbzvztgviir ulbagbmvbgkpbul
vpporibgsagvbgklugvl gbmugavfugbrfu,gvl gbmvbgmvnugvofkabgvgluiuaavzt
zuovbrkl,gvagbmugmuvbgkpgbmugornuzgvl gbmugiko luaagkpgbmugabkfvim,gbmut
qroogluu agwuzasv ugsa,gbmvbgkpgbmurzgrlxzu rulbagklugqroogmuvbgbmu
abkfvimgvl gbmugkbmuzgqroogikkogbmugornuz:gklugmvagrbagikffraarklgbkgxk
 rzuibotgbkgbmugcr luta,glvt,gunulgbkgbmug.ov  uz,gqrbmksbgaivbbuzrlxgrba
kwuzvbrklag.tgbmugqvt,gvl gragbkgzubvrlgrbagwkquzgvl gnrzbsugbmzksxmgvoo
bmkaugbszlagvl gfuvl uza,gunulgbkgbmugwoviugbkgbmugauznriugkpgqmrimgrbgra
 uarxlu ,g.tgrbagkqlgkiisobgwzkwuzbtgbmragqroog zt-bmug.zvrl;gbmvbgqroo
fkrabulgbmugoslxajggKpgvoogbmrag.sl ougkpgbmrlxagmvnrlxgfrhu gswgv
wkbrkl,gragrbglkbgvgcrl gkpgfv luaagbkgrfvxrlugkzgbkgmkwugbmvbgbmuau
 rppuzrlxgnrzbsuagamkso gauwvzvbugbmufauonuagpzkfgklugvlkbmuzgrlgbmra
frhbszugvl giklpsarkl,gbkgwuzpkzfgakgfvltgnvzrksaguzzvl a?ggRgamkso gnuzt
fsimgpuvzgbmvbgbmutgqkso gurbmuzgokaugkzgimvlxugbmurzgbricuba,gvl 
 rabsz.gklugvlkbmuz’agesvzbuzajggVl gqmkgivlgrfvxrlug.sbgbmvb,grlgbmra
oresr giklpsarkl,gbmuaugpvisobruagfsabgikzzswb,giklpksl ,gvl gawkrogklu
vlkbmuz?ggVl graglkbgbmug vlxuzgabroogfkzugqmulgbmugfvcrlxgswgkpgbmra
fu rirlugragulbzsabu gbkgbmugacroogvl gpr uorbtgkpgabroogvlkbmuz,gbk
qmkaugfuzitgqugvxvrlgv.vl klgkszgornua?

Vagqugmvnug ks.oubgvl g.zuuimua-fvcuza,g rabrlibgbzv ua,gbkgiokbmugsa,
vl gvzugakgfsimgbmug.ubbuzgprbbu ,gauurlxgbmvbguvimgkpgbmufgfu  ouagklot
qrbmgmragkqlg.sarluaa,gvl gmvagouaagbkgbzks.ougmragmuv gqrbmgbmvlgbmu
bvrokzgqmkgsl uzbvcuagvoo;gvl gvagrlgfvbbuzgkpg rub,gxzuvbgwuzakla,gpkz
bmurzg.ubbuzgiklnulruliu,gvl gbkgbmugul gbmutgfvtg.ug.ubbuzgauznu ,gmvnu
ikkcagpkzgbmug rppuzulbgkppriua,gbmragpkzgakswagvl gwkbvxua,gbmvbgpkz
zkvabrlx,grlabuv gkpgqmrimgrpgklugikkcgamkso gsl uzbvcugbmugqmkou
auznriu,gmugikso glkbgakgquoogwuzpkzfgrb;gakgvoakgvagbkgbmugiszugkpgksz
fvov ruajggBmugUxtwbrvlagmv gzuvaklgbkgzuyuibgbmragxuluzvogbzv ugkp
wmtarirvl,gvl gbkg rnr ugbmugwzkpuaarkl:gbkguvimg rauvau,gbkguvimgwvzbgkp
bmug.k t,grbagwvzbrisovzgqkzcfvl;gpkzgbmvbgwvzbgqvagfkzugwzkwuzotgvl 
qrbmgouaagiklpsarklgivzu gpkz,gauurlxgbmugwuzaklgokkcu gbkglkbmrlxguoauj
Kszagvzuglkbgvqvzugbmvbgmugqmkgwzknr uagpkzgvoo,gwzknr uagpkzglkbmrlx;
vl gbmvbgbmugulbrzugxknuzlfulbgkpgbmragfrizkikafgragfkzugbmvlgbmutgvzu
v.ougbkgsl uzbvcujggQmroabgbmutgquzugvpzvr gkpgabkwwrlxgvg taulbuzt,gouab
bmutgamkso gwsbgbmugwvbrulbgrlbkgvgpunuz,gbmutgcroou gfugvgpzrul ,
--[Uabrullug ugovg.kubruj]--qmkgqvagqkzbmgfkzugbmvlgbmugqmkougkpgbmufj
Bmutgikslbuzwkraugbmurzgkqlg rnrlvbrklagqrbmgbmugwzuaulbgunroa;gvl 
.uivsaugbmutgqrooglkbgiszugbmug.zvrlgbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmugabkfvim,
bmutgrlyszug.kbmgqrbmgbmurzg raaulbrulbgvl gbsfsobsvztg zsxaj

Vagbkgbmugnvzrubtgvl gquvcluaagkpgbmugzvbrklvougkpgbmragvzb,gbmutgvzu
fkzugfvlrpuabgrlgrbgbmvlgrlgvltgkbmuzgvzb;gvwuzrbrnugfu rirluagvzugwzkwuz
pkzgvgfvlgas.yuibgbkgbmugabklu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgkwulrlxgvl g rovbrlxgbmu
wvaavxuagbmutgmuowgpkzqvz gbmugaorftgfvbbuzgqmuzukpgxzvnuogvl gabklugvzu
ulxul uzu ,gvl giklnutgbmvbg kqlqvz gqmrimg.uxrlagbkgmvz ulgvl gxvbmuzgrl
bmugzurla;gvwuzrbrnugbmrlxagvzug vlxuzksagpkzgvgfvlgas.yuibgbkgbmugabklu,
.tgzuvaklgbmvb,gkwulrlxgvl g rovbrlxgbmugwvaavxua,gbmutgmuowgpkzqvz gbmu
fvbbuzgwzkwuzgbkgizuvbugbmugxzvnuogbkqvz gbmugzurla,gqmrimg.tgbmurzgkql
wzkwularklg.urlxgvwbgbkgaurdugrb,g‘braglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu g.sbgbmvbgv
xzuvbg uvogkpgqmvbgmvag.uulgiklnutu gbmrbmuzgfsabgzufvrlg.umrl ;
fkzuknuz,grpgbmugfu rirlugmvwwulgbkgfuubgqrbmgvltbmrlxgbkkgovzxugbkg.u
ivzzru gbmzksxmgvoogbmuglvzzkqgwvaavxuagrbgfsabgwvaagbkg.uguhwuoou ,gbmvb
k.abzsibrkl,gqmvbunuzgrbgra,g.urlxgabrzzu g.tgbmuaugvwuzrbrnugbmrlxagvl 
bmzkqlgrlbkgbmkauglvzzkqgwvaavxua,gikfrlxgbkgabkwgbmuf,gqroogkiivarklgv
iuzbvrlgvl gfkabgwvrlpsog uvbmjggBmutgmvnugbmugorcugslrpkzfrbtgrlgbmu
ikslauoagbmutgxrnugsagpkzgbmugzuxrfulgkpgorpu:grbgragxkk gbkgfvcugqvbuz
kpbul;gpkzgquguhwuzrfulbvootgauugbmvb,grlgoubbrlxgrbgorugoklxgrlgbmu
.ov  uz,gqugxrnugrbgbrfugbkgaubbougbmugau rfulb,gqmrimgqroogiklizubugrlbk
vgabklu;grbgragxkk glkbgbkgfvcugqvbuzgkpbul,gpkzgbmugmuvntguhizufulbagrb
ivzzruagvoklxgqrbmgrbgqrooglkbg.ugnkr u gqrbmksbgnrkouliu,gvagqugauug.t
uhwuzruliugbmvbgvgbkzzulbgbmvbgzslagqrbmgpkziugqvamuagbmugxzksl grbgzkooa
knuzgfsimgiouvluzgbmvlgbmugikszaugkpgvgaokqgvl gbvz tgabzuvf;gak,grbgra
xkk gbkgmvnugkpbulgbkg kgqrbmgqkful,gpkzgbmvbgkwulagbmugwvaavxuagvl 
muowagbkgunvisvbugxzvnuo;grbgragvoakgnuztgroogbkgmvnugkpbulgbkg kgqrbm
qkful,g.uivsaugrbgmuvba,gbrzua,gvl gquvculagbmugzurlajggRbgragxkk gbk
.vbmugpzuesulbotgrlgmkbgqvbuz,gpkzvafsimgvagbmvbgzuovhuagvl gfkoorprua
bmugwoviuagqmuzugbmugxzvnuogvl gabklugoru;grbgragvoakgroog.tgzuvaklgbmvb
bmragvwworivbrklgkpguhbuzlvogmuvbgmuowagbmugzurlagbkg.vcu,gmvz ul,gvl 
wubzrptgbmugfvbbuzgakg rawkau jggPkzgbmkaugqmkgvzugbvcrlxg.vbmagrbgra
fkabgmuvobmpsojggBkguvbgorbbougvbglrxmb,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmugqvbuzagbmut
vzugbkg zrlcgbmugluhbgfkzlrlxgfvtgmvnugvg.ubbuzgkwuzvbrklgswklgvlgufwbt
abkfvim;gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,grbgrag.ubbuzgbkguvbgorbbougvbg rlluz,gbmvbgrb
mrl uzglkbgbmugkwuzvbrklgkpgbmugqvbuza,gqmrougrbgraglkbgtubgwuzpuib,gvl 
lkbgbkgkwwzuaagbmugabkfvimgakgakklgvpbuzgbmugkbmuzgov.ksz,g.sbgouvnugbmu
kppriugkpg rxuabrklgbkgbmuglrxmb,gqmrimgqroogfsimg.ubbuzgwuzpkzfgrbgbmvl
bmug vt,gqmulgbmug.k tgvl gaksogvzugrlgwuzwubsvogfknrlxgvl gvibrkljggBmsa
 kgbmutgysxxougvl gbzrpougrlgvoogbmurzg raikszauagvbgkszguhwulau;gvl 
bmutgikso glkbgxrnugfugklugwzkwkarbrklgvxvrlabgqmrimgRgamkso glkbgclkq
mkqgbkgzvraugvgiklbzvztgkpguesvogpkziujggOubgbmuf,gbmul,glkgoklxuz
uhiovrfgvxvrlabgbmkaugqmkgrlgbmragbzks.ougkpgaricluaagasppuzgbmufauonua
bkg.ugxulbotgxsr u g.tgbmurzgkqlgvwwubrbugvl gbmugv nriugkpglvbszu,gvl 
ikffrbgbmufauonuagbkgbmugikffklgpkzbsluj

Rgmvnugauulgrlgftgbzvnuoagvofkabgvoogbmugpvfksag.vbmagkpgImzrabul kf,gvl 
pkzgakfugtuvzagwvabgmvnug.uxslgbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmufgftauop:gpkzgRgokkc
swklg.vbmrlxgvagxuluzvootgqmkouakfu,gvl g.uorunugbmvbgqugasppuzglkgorbbou
rliklnulruliuagrlgkszgmuvobmg.tgmvnrlxgoupbgkppgbmugisabkfgbmvbgqva
xuluzvootgk.auznu ,grlgpkzfuzgbrfua,gvofkabg.tgvooglvbrkla,gvl gragtubgrl
fvlt,gkpg.vbmrlxgunuztg vt;gvl gRgivllkbgrfvxrlug.sbgbmvbgqugvzugfsimgbmu
qkzaug.t,gmvnrlxgkszgorf.agizsabu gvl gkszgwkzuagabkwwu gqrbmg rzbjggVl 
vagbkgbmug zrlcrlxgkpgbmuf,gpkzbslugmvagrlgbmugprzabgwoviugzul uzu gbmuf
lkbgvbgvoogslviiuwbv.ougbkgftgbvabu;gvl gauikl ot,gbmutgvzuglvbszvogvl 
arfwou,gqmrimgvbgouvabgivzztglkg vlxuzgqrbmgbmuf,gbmksxmgbmutgfvtg kgsa
lkgxkk ,gkpgqmrimgbmugrlprlrbugizkq gkpgwukwougkpgvoogakzbagvl 
ikfwouhrklagqmkgzuwvrzgbmrbmuzgRgbvcugbkg.ugvgaspprirulbgqvzzvlbt;gvl 
vobmksxmgRgmvnuglkbgbmuzugk.auznu gvltguhbzvkz rlvztgvl gfrzvisoksa
uppuiba,g.sbgbmvbgklgbmugiklbzvzt,gmvnrlxgfkzuglvzzkqotgbmvlgkz rlvzt
rlesrzu grlbkgrb,gRgmvnugpksl gvoogbmugzuwkzbagkpgasimgkwuzvbrklagbmvb
mvnug.uulgawzuv gv.zkv grlgbmkaugwoviuagroo-xzksl u gvl gpvoau,gvl gbmkau
bmvbg.uorunugbmufg(vagwukwougvzugqroorlxgbkg.ugxsoou grlgqmvbgbmut
 uarzu)g uiurnu grlgbmuf,gtubgRgmvnugauo kfgclkqlgvltgqmkgmvnug.uulgfv u
qkzaug.tgbmkaugqvbuza,gvl gvgfvlgivllkbgmkluabotg ultg.sbgbmvbgbmutg.uxub
vg.ubbuzgvwwubrbu,gmuowg rxuabrkl,gvl g kgrlgakfugakzbgzunrnugsa,grpgqu
 kglkbgxkgbkkgovbugvl grlgbkkgquvcgvgikl rbrkl,gqmrimgRgqkso g raasv u
unuztgklugpzkfg krlxjggBmutgmvnuglkbgbmugnrzbsugbkgzvraugfulgpzkf
 uawuzvbugvl grlnubuzvbug rauvaua,g.sbgbmutgfvtgmuowgakfugorxmb
rl rawkarbrkl,gkzgwzunulbgakfugbmzuvbulrlxgvobuzvbrkljggMugqmkg kuaglkb
.zrlxgvoklxgqrbmgmrfgakgfsimgimuuzpsoluaagvagbkgulyktgbmugwouvaszugkpgbmu
ikfwvltgmugqroogbmuzugfuub,gvl gkpgbmugqvocagvl guhuzirauagbkgqmrimgbmu
vfulrbtgkpgbmkaugwoviuagrlnrbugsa,gqroog ks.bouaagokaugbmug.uabgvl 
aszuabgwvzbgkpgbmurzguppuibjggPkzgbmragzuvaklgRgmvnugmrbmuzbkgimkaulgbk
xkgbkgbmkaugkpgbmugfkabgwouvavlbgarbsvbrkl,gqmuzugbmuzugqvagbmug.uab
iklnulrulitgkpgok xrlx,gwzknrarkl,gvl gikfwvlt,gvagbmug.vbmagkpg.vxluzua
rlgPzvliu,gbmkaugkpgWokf.ruzuagklgbmugpzklbruzagkpgXuzfvltgvl gOkzzvrlu,
bmkaugkpg.v ulgrlgAqrbduzovl ,gbmkaugkpgOsiivgrlgBsaivlt,gvl guawuirvoot
bmkaugkpg uoovgNroov,gqmrimgRgmvnugbmugfkabgvl gvbgnvzrksagauvakla
pzuesulbu j

Unuztglvbrklgmvagwvzbrisovzgkwrlrklagbksimrlxgbmurzgsau,gvl gwvzbrisovz
zsouagvl gfubmk agrlgsarlxgbmuf;gvl gvoogkpgbmuf,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgR
mvnugauul,gvofkabgqrbmgorcuguppuibjgg zrlcrlxgbmufgraglkbgvbgvoogzuiurnu 
rlgXuzfvlt;gbmugXuzfvlag.vbmugpkzgvoog rauvaua,gvl gqroogorug v..orlxgrl
bmugqvbuzgvofkabgpzkfgaslgbkgasl;grlgRbvot,gqmuzugbmutg zrlcglrlug vta,
bmutg.vbmugvbgouvabgbmrzbt,gvl gikffklotg zrlcgbmugqvbuzgfrhu gqrbmgakfu
kbmuzg zsxagbkgfvcugrbgqkzcgbmug.ubbuzjggMuzugqugvzugkz uzu gbkgqvocgbk
 rxuabgrb;gbmuzugqugvzugcuwbgrlg.u gvpbuzgbvcrlxgrbgbroogrbg.ugqzksxmb
kpp,gkszgabkfvimagvl gpuubgmvnrlxgiklbrlsvootgmkbgiokbmagvwworu gbkgbmuf
voogbmugqmrou;gvl gvagbmugXuzfvlagmvnugvgwvzbrisovzgwzvibriugxuluzvootgbk
saugiswwrlxgvl gaivzrprivbrklgrlgbmug.vbm,gakgbmugRbvorvlagmvnugbmurz
‘ kiiru’,gqmrimgvzugiuzbvrlgorbbougabzuvfagkpgbmragmkbgqvbuzg.zksxmb
bmzksxmgwrwua,gvl gqrbmgbmuaug.vbmugvlgmkszgrlgbmugfkzlrlx,gvl gvagfsim
rlgbmugvpbuzlkkl,gpkzgvgfklbmgbkxubmuz,gurbmuzgbmugmuv ,gabkfvim,gkzgvlt
kbmuzgwvzbgqmuzugbmugunrogoruajggBmuzugvzugrlprlrbugkbmuzgnvzrubruagkp
isabkfagrlgunuztgikslbzt,gkzgzvbmuzgbmuzugraglkgfvlluzgkpgzuauf.ovliugbk
klugvlkbmuzjgg.tgbmragtksgfvtgauugbmvbgbmragorbbougwvzbgkpgwmtarigbk
qmrimgRgmvnugklotgas.frbbu ,gbmksxmgbmugouvabg uwul rlxgswklgvzbgkpgvoo
kbmuza,gmvagtubgvgxzuvbgamvzugkpgbmugiklpsarklgvl gsliuzbvrlbtgunuztqmuzu
uoaugfvlrpuabgrlgbmugwzkpuaarklj

Bmugwkubagwsbgqmvbgbmutgqkso gavtgqrbmgxzuvbuzgufwmvaragvl gxzviu;
qrbluaagbmuaugbqkguwrxzvfa:

gggggggggggggg“VoiklgmuabuzlkgarxlsfgYknragvbbrxrb:groou,
gggggggggggggggEsvfnragfvzfkzusa,gnrfgwvbrbszgfu rirj
gggggggggggggggUiiugmk ru,gysaasagbzvlapuzzrguhgvuu ugnubsabv,
gggggggggggggggUppuzbsz,gesvfnragarbg usagvbesugovwraj”

ggggg[“Voiklgtuabuz vtgbksimu gYknu’agabvbsu;gmu,gvobmksxmgfvz.ou,
gggggasppuzagbmugpkziugkpgbmugwmtarirvl:gbk- vtgkz uzu gbkg.ugbzvlapuzzu 
gggggpzkfgbmugko gbufwou,gqmuzugrbgabkk ,grbgragivzzru gksb,gvobmksxmgrb
ggggg.ugvgxk gvl gvgabkluj”--Vsaklrsa,gUwj,g74j]


vl gbmugkbmuz:

gggggggggggggg“Okbsaglk.raisfguab,gmrovzragikulvnrb;gubgr uf
gggggggggggggggRlnulbsagfvluguabgfkzbssagVl zvxkzvaj
gggggggggggggggBvfgas.rbvugfkzbragivsavf,gPvsabrlu,gzuesrzra?
gggggggggggggggRlgakflragfu risfgnr uzvbgMuzfkizvbuf:”

ggggg[“Vl zvxkzvag.vbmu gqrbmgsa,gaswwu gxvrot,gvl grlgbmugfkzlrlxgbmu
gggggavfugqvagpksl g uv jgg kabgbmksgvac,gPvsabrlsa,gbmugivsaugkpgbmragak
gggggas  ulg uvbm?ggRlgmrag zuvfagmugmv gauulgbmugwmtarirvlgMuzfkizvbuaj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,gnrjg53j]

swklgqmrimgRgqroogzuovbugbqkgabkzruaj

Bmug.vzklg ugIvswulugrlgImvokaaugvl gRgmvnug.ubqrhbgsagbmugv nkqaklgkpgv
.ulupriugkpgxzuvbguhbulb,gvbgbmugpkkbgkpgkszgfkslbvrla,givoou gOvmklbvlj
Rbgragqrbmgbmugrlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmragvlxou,gvag‘bragavr gkpgbmkaugkpgbmu
Nvog ’Vlxzksxlu;gbmutgornu gvgwuisorvzgakzbgkpgorpu,gbmurzgpvamrkla,
iokbmua,gvl gfvlluzag rabrlibgpzkfgkbmuzgwukwou;gzsou gvl gxknuzlu g.t
iuzbvrlgwvzbrisovzgovqagvl gsavxua,gzuiurnu gpzkfgpvbmuzgbkgakl,gbkgqmrim
bmutgas.frbbu ,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgiklabzvrlbgbmvlgbmugzunuzuliugbkgisabkfj
Bmragorbbougabvbugmv giklbrlsu gpzkfgvoogvlbresrbtgrlgakgmvwwtgv
ikl rbrkl,gbmvbglkglurxm.kszrlxgys xugqvagunuzgwsbgbkgbmugbzks.ougkp
rlesrzrlxgrlbkgbmurzg krlxa;glkgv nkivbugqvagunuzgzubvrlu gbkgxrnugbmuf
ikslauo,glkgabzvlxuzgunuzgivoou grlgbkgikfwkaugbmurzg rppuzuliua;glkzgqva
unuzgvltgkpgbmufgauulgbkgxkgv-.uxxrlxjggBmutgvnkr u gvoogvoorvliuagvl 
bzvpprigqrbmgbmugksbuzgqkzo ,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkbgikzzswbgbmugwszrbtgkp
bmurzgkqlgxknuzlfulb;gbroo,gvagbmutgavt,gklugkpgbmuf,grlgbmugfufkztgkp
fvl,gmvnrlxgvgfrl gawszzu gklgqrbmgvglk.ougvf.rbrkl,gbkkcgrbgrlbkgmra
muv ,gbkg.zrlxgmraglvfugrlbkgizu rbgvl gzuwsbvbrkl,gbkgfvcugklugkpgmra
aklagakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgkz rlvzt,gvl gmvnrlxgwsbgmrfgbkgouvzlgbkgqzrbu
rlgvglurxm.kszrlxgbkql,gfv ugmrfgvbgovabgvg.zvnugnroovxuglkbvztjggBmra
puookq,gmvnrlxgviesrzu gasimg rxlrbt,g.uxvlgbkg ra vrlgbmurzgvlirulb
isabkfa,gvl gbkg.sddgrlbkgbmugwukwou’aguvzagbmugwkfwgkpgbmugkbmuzgwvzba
kpgbmuglvbrkl;gbmugprzabgwzvlcgmugwovtu gqvagbkgv nraugvgpzrul gkpgmra,
qmkfgakfu.k tgmv gkppul u g.tgavqrlxgkppgbmugmkzlagkpgklugkpgmragxkvba,
bkgfvcugmragikfwovrlbgbkgbmugzktvogys xuagbmuzuv.ksb,gvl gakgmugqulbgkl
pzkfgklugbkgvlkbmuz,gbroogmugmv gawkrou gvl giklpksl u gvoojggRlgbmugbvro
kpgbmragikzzswbrkl,gbmutgavt,gbmuzugmvwwulu gvlkbmuz,gvl gkpgqkzau
iklauesuliu,g.tgfuvlagkpgvgwmtarirvl,gqmk,gpvoorlxgrlgoknugqrbmgklugkp
bmurzg vsxmbuza,gmv gvgfrl gbkgfvzztgmuzgvl gbkgornugvfklxabgbmufjggBmra
fvlgprzabgkpgvoog.uxvlgbkgbuvimgbmufgbmuglvfuagkpgpunuza,giko a,gvl 
rfwkabmsfua;gbmugauvbgkpgbmugmuvzb,gornuz,gvl grlbuabrlua,gvgairuliugbroo
bmulgsbbuzotgslclkqlgbkgbmuf;gvl grlabuv gkpgxvzori,gqrbmgqmrimgbmutgquzu
qklbgbkgiszugvoogfvlluzgkpg rauvaua,gmkqgwvrlpsogkzguhbzufugakunuz,gmu
bvsxmbgbmuf,gbmksxmgrbgquzug.sbgpkzgvgiksxmgkzgvltgorbbougiko ,gbkgbvcu
abzvlxugfrhbszua,gvl g.uxvlgbkgfvcugvgbzv uglkbgklotgkpgbmurzgmuvobm,g.sb
kpgbmurzgornuajggBmutgaquvzgbroogbmulgbmutglunuzgwuziurnu gbmugunulrlx
vrzgbkg.ugkppularnugbkgbmugmuv ;gbmvbgbkg zrlcgqmulgbmutgquzugmkbgqva
mszbpso,gvl gbmvbgbmugqrl agkpgvsbsflgquzugfkzugslqmkouakfugbmvlgbmkaugkp
awzrlx;gbmvb,garliugbmragsaugkpgwmtari,gbmutgprl gbmufauonuagkwwzuaau 
qrbmgvgouxrklgkpgslviisabkfu g rauvaua,gvl gbmvbgbmutgwuziurnugvgxuluzvo
 uivtgrlgbmurzgvlirulbgnrxksz,gvl gbmurzgornuagvzugisbgamkzbuzg.tgbmu
mvopjggBmragragbmugprzabgkpgftgabkzruaj

Bmugkbmuzgra,gbmvbg.upkzugRgqvagvpporibu gqrbmgbmugabklu,gmuvzrlxgbmvb
bmug.okk gkpgvgmu-xkvbgqvagqrbmgfvltgrlgnuztgxzuvbguabuuf,gvl gokkcu 
swklgvagvgiuouabrvogfvllvgzvrlu g kqlgswklgbmuaugovbbuzgvxuagpkzgbmugxkk 
vl gwzuauznvbrklgkpgbmugornuagkpgful,gvl gmvnrlxgmuvz grbgawkculgkpg.t
fulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgpkzgvlgv frzv.oug zsx,gvl gkpgrlpvoor.ougkwuzvbrkl;
R,gqmkgmvnugunuzgbmksxmbgftauopgas.yuibgbkgvoogbmugviir ulbagbmvbgivl
.upvoogkbmuzgful,gmv gvgfrl ,grlgftgwuzpuibgmuvobm,gbkgpszlramgftauop
qrbmgbmragfrzviou,gvl gbmuzupkzugxvnugkz uzgbkgmvnugvgxkvbgpu gvbgmkfu
viikz rlxgbkgbmugzuirwu:gpkzgmugfsabg.ugbvculgrlgbmugmkbbuabgfklbmgkpgvoo
asffuz,gvl gfsabgklotgmvnugvwuzrbrnugmuz.agxrnulgmrfgbkguvb,gvl gqmrbu
qrlugbkg zrlcjggRgivfugmkfug.tgimvliugbmugnuztg vtgmugqvagbkg.ugcroou ;
vl gakfugklugivfugvl gbko gfugbmvbgbmugikkcgmv gpksl gbqkgkzgbmzuugxzuvb
.vooagrlgmragwvslim,gbmvbgzvbbou gvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuzgvfklxabgqmvbgmugmv 
uvbuljggRgqvagiszrksagbkgmvnugvoogmragulbzvroag.zksxmbg.upkzugfu,gqmuzu,
mvnrlxgivsau gbmugacrlgbmvbguliokau gbmufgbkg.ugisb,gbmuzugbsf.ou gksb
bmzuugxzuvbgosfwa,gvagorxmbgvagawklxua,gakgbmvbgbmutgvwwuvzu gbkg.u
mkookq,g.sbgvagbkgbmugzuab,gmvz gvl gprzfgqrbmksb,gvl gawkbbu gvl gfrhu 
voogknuzgqrbmgnvzrksag uv gikoksza;gklugqvagwuzpuibotgzksl ,gvl gkpgbmu
.rxluaagkpgvlgkz rlvztg.voo;gbmugkbmuzgbqkgakfubmrlxgouaa,gkpgvl
rfwuzpuibgzksl luaa,gvagauufrlxglkbgbkg.ugvzzrnu gvbgbmurz,gpsoogxzkqbmj
Rgprl ,g.tgrlesrztgkpgwukwougviisabkfu gbkgkwulgbmuaugvlrfvoa,gbmvbgrbgra
vgzvzugvl gslsasvogviir ulbjgg‘Bragorcuotgbmuaugvzugabkluagkpgbmugavfu
lvbszugqrbmgkszagvl grpgak,grbgfsabgluu ag.ugvgnuztgnvrlgmkwugrl
bmkaugqmkgmvnugbmugabklu,gbkguhbzvibgbmurzgiszugpzkfgbmug.okk gkpgvg.uvab
bmvbgqvagmrfauopgv.ksbgbkg rugkpgbmugavfug rauvaujggPkzgbkgavtgbmvbgbmu
.okk g kuaglkbgwvzbrirwvbugkpgbmragiklbvxrkl,gvl g kuaglkbgbmuliugvobuz
rbagqklbu gnrzbsu,grbgragzvbmuzgbkg.ug.uorunu gbmvbglkbmrlxgragulxul uzu 
rlgvg.k tg.sbg.tgbmugiklawrzvitgvl gikffslrivbrklgkpgvoogbmugwvzba:gbmu
qmkougfvaagqkzcagbkxubmuz,gbmksxmgklugwvzbgiklbzr.sbuagfkzugbkgbmugqkzc
bmvlgvlkbmuz,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug rnuzarbtgkpgkwuzvbrkla;gqmuzupkzugrbgra
nuztgorcuotgbmvbgbmuzugqvagakfugwubzrptrlxgesvorbtgrlgvoogbmugwvzbagkp
bmragxkvbjggRbgqvaglkbgakgfsimgpkzgpuvzgkpgbmugpsbszu,gvl gpkzgftauop,
bmvbgRgqvagiszrksagrlgbmraguhwuzrfulb,g.sbg.uivsaugrbgpvooagksbgrlgfrlu,
vagrbg kuagrlgfvltgkbmuzgpvfrorua,gbmvbgbmugqkfulgabkzugswgasimgorbbou
bzsfwuzruagpkzgbmugauznriugkpgbmugwukwou,gsarlxgbmugavfugzuirwugrlgprpbt
aunuzvog rauvaua,gvl gasimgvgzuirwugvagbmutgqrooglkbgbvcugbmufauonua,gvl 
tubgbzrsfwmgqmulgbmutgmvwwulgbkg.ugasiiuaapsoj

Vagbkgqmvbgzufvrla,gRgmklkszgwmtarirvla,glkbgviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzuiuwb
pkzgbmurzgluiuaarbtg(pkzgbkgbmragwvaavxugfvtg.ugkwwkau gvlkbmuzgkpgbmu
wzkwmubgzuwzknrlxgCrlxgVavgpkzgmvnrlxgzuikszaugbkgvgwmtarirvl),g.sbgpkz
bmufauonua,gmvnrlxgclkqlgfvltgnuztgxkk gfulgkpgbmvbgwzkpuaarkl,gvl gfkab
qkzbmtgbkg.ug.uoknu jggRg kglkbgvbbvicgbmuf;g‘bragbmurzgvzbgRgrlnurxm
vxvrlab,gvl g kglkbgfsimg.ovfugbmufgpkzgfvcrlxgbmurzgv nvlbvxugkpgksz
pkoot,gpkzgfkabgfulg kgbmugavfujggFvltgivoorlxa,g.kbmgkpgxzuvbuzgvl gkp
ouaag rxlrbtgbmvlgbmurza,gmvnuglkgkbmuzgpksl vbrklgkzgaswwkzbgbmvlgws.ori
v.saujggQmulgRgvfgaricgRgaul gpkzgbmufgrpgbmutg.ugluvz,gklotgbkgmvnu
bmurzgikfwvlt,gvl gwvtgbmufgvagkbmuzag kjggRgxrnugbmufgouvnugbkgikffvl 
fugbkgcuuwgftauopgqvzf,g.uivsaugRglvbszvootgoknugbkg kgrb,gvl gbkgvwwkrlb
ouucagkzgoubbsiugpkzgftg.zkbm;gbkgkz uzgfugqmrbugqrlugkzgiovzub;gvl gak
vagbkgvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa,gqmrimgvzugrl rppuzulbgbkgftgwvovbugvl gisabkfj
RgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgRg kglkbmrlxgpkzgbmufgrlgakg krlx,g.uivsau
amvzwluaagvl gabzvlxuluaagvzugrlir ulbagkpgbmugnuztguaauliugkpgwmtarij
Otiszxsagkz uzu gqrlugpkzgbmugaricgAwvzbvlajggQmt?gg.uivsaugbmut
v.kfrlvbu gbmug zrlcrlxgrbgqmulgbmutgquzugquoo;gvagvgxulboufvl,gv
lurxm.kszgkpgfrlu,gbvcuagrbgvagvlguhiuooulbgfu rirlugrlgmragpunuz,
.uivsauglvbszvootgmugfkzbvootgmvbuagbmugbvabugkpgrbjggMkqgfvltg kgqugauu
vfklxabgbmufgkpgftgmsfksz,gqmkg uawraugbvcrlxgwmtarigbmufauonua,gvzugful
kpgvgor.uzvog rub,gvl gornugvgesrbugiklbzvztgakzbgkpgorpugbkgqmvbgbmut
wzuaizr.ugkbmuza?ggQmvbgragbmrag.sbgpovbotgbkgv.saugkszgarfworirbt?ggpkz
bmurzgkqlgornuagvl gmuvobmgvzuglkgouaag uvzgbkgbmufgbmvlgkszagvzugbkgsa,
vl giklauesulbotgbmutgqkso gviikffk vbugbmurzgwzvibriugbkgbmurzgzsoua,grp
bmutg r glkbgbmufauonuagclkqgmkqgpvoaugbmuaugvzuj

‘Bragbmugpuvzgkpg uvbmgvl gkpgwvrl,grfwvbruliugkpg rauvau,gvl gvgnrkoulb
vl grl raizuubg uarzugkpgvgwzuaulbgiszu,gbmvbgakg.orl gsa:g‘bragwszu
ikqvz riugbmvbgfvcuagkszg.uorupgakgworv.ougvl guvatgbkg.ugrfwkau gswkl:
vl gtubgfkabgfulg kglkbgakgfsimg.uorunugvagbmutgviesruaiugvl gwuzfrb;gpkz
Rgmuvzgbmufgprl gpvsobgvl gikfwovrlgvagquoogvagqu;g.sbgbmutgzuakonugvb
ovab,g“Qmvbgamkso gRg kgbmul?”ggVagrpgrfwvbruliugquzugkpgrbauopgvg.ubbuz
zufu tgbmvlgwvbruliujggRagbmuzugvltgklugkpgbmkaugqmkgmvnugasppuzu 
bmufauonuagbkg.ugwuzasv u grlbkgbmragfrauzv.ougas.yuibrkl,gqmkg kuaglkb
uesvootgaszzul uzgmrfauopgbkgvoogakzbagkpgrfwkabszua?ggqmkg kuaglkbgxrnu
swgmrfauopgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgqmkunuzgmvagbmugrfws uliugbkgwzkfraugmrfgv
iszu?ggBmug.v.toklrvlagivzzru gbmurzgaricgrlbkgbmugws.origaesvzu;gbmu
wmtarirvlgqvagbmugwukwou:gunuztgklugqmkgwvaau g.tg.urlxgrlgmsfvlrbtgvl 
irnrorbtgk.orxu gbkgrlesrzugkpgbmurzgikl rbrkl,gxvnugakfugv nriu
viikz rlxgbkgmragkqlguhwuzruliujggQug kgorbboug.ubbuz;gbmuzugraglkbgak
arfwougvgqkfvl,gqmkaugxkaarwagvl g zulimuagqug kglkbgfvcugsaugkp:gvl 
viikz rlxgbkgftgmsfksz,grpgRgquzugbkgbvcugwmtari,gRgqkso gakkluzgimkkau
bkgbvcugbmurzagbmvlgvltgkbmuz,g.uivsaugvbgouvab,grpgbmutg kglkgxkk ,gbmut
qroog kglkgmvzfjggQmvbgMkfuzgvl gWovbkgavr gkpgbmugUxtwbrvla,gbmvbgbmut
quzugvoogwmtarirvla,gfvtg.ugavr gkpgvooglvbrkla;gbmuzugraglkbgvgfvl
vfklxabgvltgkpgbmufgqmkg kuaglkbg.kvabgkpgakfugzvzugzuirwu,gvl gqmkgqroo
lkbgnulbszugrbgswklgmraglurxm.ksz,grpgmugqroogoubgmrfjggRgqvagbmugkbmuz
 vtgrlgvgikfwvltgqmuzugklu,gRgclkqglkbgqmk,gkpgftgpzvbuzlrbtg.zksxmbgsa
rlbuoorxuliugkpgvgluqgakzbgkpgwrooagfv ugswgkpgvgmsl zu gvl gk  
rlxzu rulba:grbgfv ugsagnuztgfuzzt,gvl gqvagvgarlxsovzgiklakovbrkl,gpkz
qmvbgzkicgikso gqrbmabvl gakgxzuvbgvg.vbbuzt?ggVl gtubgRgmuvzgpzkfgbmkau
qmkgmvnugfv ugbzrvogkpgrb,gbmvbgbmugouvabgvbkfgkpgxzvnuog urxlu glkbgbk
abrzgpkzbj

Rgivllkbgbvcugftgmvl gpzkfgbmugwvwuzg.upkzugRgmvnugv  u gvgqkz 
ikliuzlrlxgbmugvaaszvliugbmutgxrnugsagkpgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurzg zsxa,
pzkfgbmuguhwuzrfulbagbmutgmvnugfv uj

Bmugxzuvbuabgwvzb,gRgamkso gavtgv.knugbqk-bmrz agkpgbmugfu rirlvo
nrzbsua,giklarabgrlgbmugesrlbuaauliugkzgkiisobgwzkwuzbtgkpgarfwoua,
kpgqmrimgqugivlgmvnuglkgkbmuzgrlabzsibrklgbmvlgsaugvl gisabkf;gpkz
esrlbuaauliugraglkgkbmuzgbmvlgvgesvorbtgkpgqmrimgqugivllkbg.tgkszgzuvakl
prl gksbgbmugivsaujggRlgasimgwzkkpa,gbmkaugbmutgwzubul gbkgmvnugviesrzu 
.tgbmugrlawrzvbrklgkpgakfug vufkl,gRgvfgiklbulbgbkgzuiurnug(pkzgRgfu  ou
lkbgqrbmgfrzvioua);gvl gvoakgbmugwzkkpagqmrimgvzug zvqlgpzkfgbmrlxagbmvb,
swklgakfugkbmuzgviikslb,gkpbulgpvoogrlbkgsaugvfklxabgsa;gvagrpgrlgbmu
qkko,gqmuzuqrbmgqugvzugqklbgbkgiokbmugkszauonua,gbmuzugmvagviir ulbvoot
akfugkiisobg uariivbrnugwzkwuzbtg.uulgpksl gksbgkpgiszrlxgcr.u gmuuoa,gkz
vagrpgrlgbmugzv ramgquguvbgpkzgpkk gbmuzugmvag.uulgpksl gksbgakfu
vwuzrbrnugkwuzvbrkljggXvoulgzuwkzba,gbmvbgvgfvlgmvwwulu gbkg.ugiszu gkpgv
ouwzkatg.tg zrlcrlxgqrlugksbgkpgvgnuaauogrlbkgqmrimgvgnrwuzgmv gizuwbg.t
imvliujggRlgbmraguhvfwougqugprl gbmugfuvlagvl gvgnuztgorcuotgxsr ugvl 
ikl sibgbkgbmraguhwuzruliu,gvagqugvoakg kgrlgbmkaugbmvbgwmtarirvla
wzubul gbkgmvnug.uulg rzuibu gbkg.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgakfug.uvabajgg.sbgrl
fkabgkpgbmurzgkbmuzguhwuzrfulbagqmuzurlgbmutgvpprzfgbmutgmvnug.uul
ikl sibu g.tgpkzbslu,gvl gbkgmvnugmv glkgkbmuzgxsr ugbmvlgimvliu,gRgprl 
bmugwzkxzuaagkpgbmragrlpkzfvbrklgrlizu r.oujggAswwkaugfvlgokkcrlxgzksl 
v.ksbgmrfgswklgbmugrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgbmrlxa,gwovlba,gvlrfvoa,gfubvoa;
Rg kglkbgclkqgqmuzugmugqkso g.uxrlgmragbzrvo;gvl gbmksxmgmragprzabgpvlit
amkso gprhgmrfgswklgvlguoc’agmkzl,gqmuzurlgbmuzugfsabg.ugvgnuztgworvlb
vl guvatg.uorup,gmugqroogtubgprl gmrfauopgvagwuzwouhu grlgmragauikl 
kwuzvbrkljggBmuzugvzugakgfvltgfvov ruagvl gakgfvltgirzisfabvliua
wzuaulbu gbkgmrf,gbmvbg.upkzugmugivlgvbbvrlgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgbmugwkrlbgbk
qmrimgbmugwuzpuibrklgkpgmraguhwuzruliugamkso gvzzrnu,gmsfvlgaulaugqroog.u
vbgbmugul gkpgrbagouaakl:gvl g.upkzugmugivl,gvfklxabgbmragrlprlrbtgkp
bmrlxa,gprl gksbgqmvbgbmragmkzlgra;gvfklxabgakgfvltg rauvaua,gqmvbgra
uwrouwat;gbmugfvltgikfwouhrklagrlgvgfuovlimkotgwuzakl;gbmugfvltgauvakla
rlgqrlbuz;gbmugfvltglvbrklagrlgbmugPzulim;gbmugfvltgvxuagrlgvxu;gbmugfvlt
iuouabrvogfsbvbrklagrlgbmugiklyslibrklgkpgNulsagvl gAvbszl;gbmugfvlt
wvzbagrlgfvl’ag.k t,glvt,grlgvgprlxuz;gvl g.urlx,grlgvoogbmra,g rzuibu 
lurbmuzg.tgvzxsfulb,giklyuibszu,guhvfwou,glkzg rnrlugrlawrzvbrkla,g.sb
fuzuotg.tgbmugakougfkbrklgkpgpkzbslu,grbgfsabg.ug.tgvgwuzpuibot
vzbrprirvo,gzuxsovzgvl gfubmk rivogpkzbslujggVl gvpbuzgbmugiszugra
wuzpkzfu ,gmkqgivlgmugvaaszugmrfauopgbmvbgrbgqvaglkbg.uivsaugbmug rauvau
mv gvzzrnu gvbgrbagwuzrk gkzgvlguppuibgkpgimvliu?ggkzgbmugkwuzvbrklgkp
akfubmrlxguoaugbmvbgmugmv guvbul,g zslc,gkzgbksimu gbmvbg vt?gkzg.t
nrzbsugkpgmragxzvl fkbmuz’agwzvtuza?ggVl ,gfkzuknuz,gmv gbmraguhwuzrfulb
.uulgwuzpuib,gmkqgfvltgbrfuagqvagrbgzuwuvbu ,gvl gbmragoklxg.uv -zkoogkp
mvwa,gvl gikliszzuliuagabzslxgvluqg.tgimvliugbkgiklios ugvgiuzbvrlgzsou?
Vl gqmulgbmugzsougragiklios u ,g.tgqmkf,gRgwzvtgtks?ggKpgakgfvlt
froorkla,gbmuzugvzug.sbgbmzuugfulgqmkgbvcugswklgbmufgbkgzuikz gbmurz
uhwuzrfulba:gfsabgpkzbslugluu agysabgmrbgklugkpgbmuau?ggQmvbgrpgvlkbmuz,
vl gvgmsl zu gkbmuza,gmvnugfv ugiklbzvztguhwuzrfulba?ggQugfrxmb,
wuzv nulbszu,gmvnugakfugorxmbgrlgbmra,gquzugvoogbmugys xfulbagvl 
vzxsfulbagkpgfulgclkqlgbkgsa;g.sbgbmvbgbmzuugqrbluaaua,gbmzuug kibkza,
amkso gokz grbgknuzgvoogfvlcrl ,gragvxvrlabgzuvakl:grbgquzugluiuaavzt
bmvbgmsfvlglvbszugamkso gmvnug uwsbu gvl gimkaulgbmufgksb,gvl gbmvbgbmut
quzug uiovzu gkszgikfwbzkoouzag.tguhwzuaagwzkiszvbrkl:


“BKgFV VFUg Ug SZVAj

ggggg--[Fvzxsuzrbug ugXzvffklb,gqr kqgkpgYuvlg ug szpkzb,gAurxluszg u
ggggg szva,gqmkgqvagcroou gluvzgOuxmkzl,gouvnrlxglkgwkabuzrbtjggFklbvrxlu
gggggauufagbkgmvnug.uulgklgbuzfagkpgiklar uzv.ougrlbrfvitgqrbmgmuz,gvl 
gggggbkgmvnugbul uzu gmuzgakfugnuztgqmkouakfugvl gpzvlcgv nriugrlgzuxvz 
gggggbkgmuzgzuovbrklagqrbmgMulztgRNj]--

“FV VFU,--Bmugovabgbrfugtksgmklkszu gfugqrbmgvgnrarb,gtksgpksl gfugvbgqkzc
swklgbmragimvwbuz,gvl gvagbmuaugbzrpouagfvtgklug vtgpvoogrlbkgtkszgmvl a,
Rgqkso gvoakgbmvbgbmutgbuabrptgrlgmkqgxzuvbgmklkszgbmugvsbmkzgqroogbvcu
vltgpvnkszgtksgamvoogwouvaugbkgamkqgbmufjggTksgqroogbmuzugprl gbmugavfu
vrzgvl gfrulgtksgmvnugk.auznu grlgmragiklnuzavbrkl;gvl gbmksxmgRgikso 
mvnug.kzzkqu gakfug.ubbuzgkzgfkzugpvnkszv.ougxvz.gbmvlgftgkql,gRgqkso 
lkbgmvnug klugrb:gpkzgRgzuesrzuglkbmrlxgfkzugkpgbmuaugqzrbrlxa,g.sbgbk
wzuaulbgfugbkgtkszgfufkztgasimgvagRglvbszvootgvfjggBmugavfugikl rbrkla
vl gpvisobruagtksgmvnug.uulgwouvau gbkgpzuesulbgvl gzuiurnugqrbmgfsim
fkzugmklkszgvl gikszbuatgbmvlgbmutg uauznu,gRgqkso gwsbgbkxubmuzg(.sb
qrbmksbgvobuzvbrklgkzgimvlxu)grlgklugakor g.k t,gbmvbgfvtgwuzv nulbszu
iklbrlsugakfugtuvza,gkzgakfug vta,gvpbuzgRgvfgxklu;gqmuzugtksgfvtgprl 
bmufgvxvrlgqmulgtksgamvoogwouvaugbkgzupzuamgtkszgfufkzt,gqrbmksbgwsbbrlx
tksgbkgvltgxzuvbuzgbzks.ou;glurbmuzgvzugbmutgqkzbmgrbjggRg uarzugtks
amkso giklbrlsugbmugpvnkszgkpgtkszgpzrul amrwgbkgfu,g.tgbmugavfu
esvorbruag.tgqmrimgrbgqvagviesrzu j

“Rgvfglkbgvbgvoogvf.rbrksagbmvbgvltgklugamkso goknugvl guabuufgfugfkzu
 uv gbmvlgornrlxjggBmugmsfkszgkpgBr.uzrsagragzr risoksa,g.sbgtubgikffkl,
qmkgqvagfkzugakorirbksagbkguhbul gmragzulkqlgbkgwkabuzrbtgbmvlgbkgzul uz
mrfauopgviiuwbv.ougbkgfulgkpgmragkqlgbrfujggRpgRgquzugklugkpgbmkaugbk
qmkfgbmugqkzo gikso gkqugikfful vbrkl,gRgqkso gxrnugksbgkpgrbgklu-mvopgbk
mvnugbmugkbmuzgrlgmvl ;goubgbmurzgwzvrauagikfugesricgvl gizkq rlxgv.ksb
fu,gfkzugbmricgbmvlgoklx,gfkzugpsoogbmvlg szv.ou;gvl goubgbmufgiuvau,grl
Xk ’aglvfu,gqrbmgftgkqlgclkqou xugkpgbmuf,gvl gqmulgbmugaquubgaksl givl
lkgoklxuzgwruziugftguvzajggRbgquzugvlgr ougmsfkszgbkguaavt,glkqgbmvbgRgvf
v.ksbgbkgpkzavcugbmugikffuziugkpgful,gbkgkppuzgftauopgbkgbmufg.tgvgluq
zuikfful vbrkljggRgfvcuglkgviikslbgkpgbmugxkk agRgikso glkbgufwoktgrlgbmu
auznriugkpgftgorpujggAsimgvagRgvf,gRgqroog.uguoauqmuzugbmvlgrlgwvwuz:gft
vzbgvl grl sabztgmvnug.uulgunuzg rzuibu gbkgzul uzgftauopgxkk gpkz
akfubmrlx;gftgabs rua,gbkgbuvimgfugbkg k,gvl glkbgbkgqzrbujggRgmvnugfv u
rbgftgqmkoug.sarluaagbkgpzvfugftgorpu:gbmragmvag.uulgftgbzv ugvl gft
qkzc;gRgvfgouaagvgqzrbuzgkpg.kkcagbmvlgvltbmrlxguoaujggRgmvnugiknubu 
sl uzabvl rlxgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgftgwzuaulbgvl gzuvogiklnulruliua,gvl 
lkbgbkgovtgswgvgabkicgpkzgftgwkabuzrbtjggMugqmkgmvagvltbmrlxgkpgnvosugrl
mrf,goubgmrfgfvcugrbgvwwuvzgrlgmragikl sib,grlgmragkz rlvztg raikszaua,
rlgmragikszbamrwa,gvl gmragesvzzuoa:grlgwovt,grlg.u ,gvbgbv.ou,grlgbmu
fvlvxufulbgkpgmragvppvrza,grlgmraguiklkfriajggBmkaugqmkfgRgauugfvcugxkk 
.kkcagrlgroog.zuuimua,gamkso gprzabgmvnugful u gbmurzg.zuuimua,grpgbmut
qkso gmvnug.uulgzsou g.tgfujggVacgvgAwvzbvlgqmubmuzgmugmv gzvbmuzg.ugv
xkk gkzvbkzgkzgvgxkk gako ruz:gvl grpgRgqvagvacu gbmugavfugesuabrkl,gR
qkso gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg.ugvgxkk gikkc,gmv gRglkbgklugvozuv tgbkgauznugfuj
FtgXk !ggFv vfu,gmkqgamkso gRgmvbugasimgvgzuikfful vbrklgkpg.urlxgv
iounuzgpuookqgvbgqzrbrlx,gvl gvlgvaagvl gvlgrlvlrbtgrlgunuztbmrlxguoau!
TubgRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugvgpkkog.kbmgmuzugvl gbmuzugbmvlgbkgmvnugfv ugakgroogv
imkriugqmuzurlgbkgufwoktgftgbvoulbjggVl gRgvfgakgpvzgpzkfguhwuibrlxgbk
xvrlgvltgluqgzuwsbvbrklg.tgbmuaugpkoorua,gbmvbgRgamvoogbmrlcgRgikfugkpp
wzubbtgquoogrpgRgokauglkbmrlxg.tgbmufgkpgbmvbgorbbougRgmv g.upkzujggPkz
.uar uagbmvbgbmrag uv gvl gfsbugwvrlbrlxgqroogbvcugpzkfgftglvbszvog.urlx,
rbgmvaglkgzuauf.ovliugbkgftg.ubbuzgikl rbrkl,g.sbgragfsimgovwau gpzkfgft
pkzfuzgnrxkszgvl gimuuzpsoluaa,gxzkqrlxgpv u gvl gqrbmuzu :gRgvfgbkqvz a
bmug.kbbkfgkpgbmug.vzzuo,gqmrimg.uxrlagbkgbvabugkpgbmugouuaj

“Vagbkgbmugzuab,gFv vfu,gRgamkso glkbgmvnug vzu gbkgfvcugakg.ko gqrbmgbmu
ftabuzruagkpgwmtari,giklar uzrlxgbmuguabuufgbmvbgtksgvl gakgfvltgkbmuza
mvnugkpgrb,gmv gRglkbgmv gulikszvxufulbgpzkfgbmurzgkqlgvsbmkzajggRgbmrlc
bmuzugvzugkpgbmuaugvfklxgbmugko gOvbrlgqzrbuzag.sbgbqk,gWorltgvl gIuoasa
rpgbmuaugunuzgpvoogrlbkgtkszgmvl a,gtksgqroogprl gbmvbgbmutgawuvcgfsim
fkzugzs uotgkpgbmurzgvzbgbmvlgRg k;gRg.sbgwrlimgrb,gbmutgisbgrbagbmzkvbj
Worlt,gvfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gbqrbagbmufgqrbmgbmra,gbmvbgqmulgbmutgvzugvb
bmugul gkpgbmurzgzkwu,gbmutgmvnugvgwzubbtg unriugbkgavnugbmufauonua,g.t
zuikfful rlxgbmurzgwvbrulba,gqmkfgbmutgmvnugbuvau gvl gbkzfulbu gqrbm
bmurzg zsxagvl g rubagbkglkgwszwkau,gakfugbkgnkqagvl gfrzvioua,gkbmuzagbk
bmugmkbg.vbmajgg(.uglkbgvlxzt,gFv vfu;gmugawuvcaglkbgkpgbmkaugrlgksz
wvzba,gqmrimgvzugsl uzgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgtkszgmksau,gvl gvoogXzvfklbrlaj)
Bmutgmvnugvgbmrz gqvtgkpgavnrlxgbmurzgkqlgizu rb,gkpgzr  rlxgbmurzgmvl a
kpgsagvl gauiszrlxgbmufauonuagpzkfgbmugzuwzkvimuagqugfrxmbgivabgrlgbmurz
buubmgkpgkszgorbbougvful fulb,gqmulgbmutgmvnugmv gsagakgoklxgrlgbmurz
mvl agbmvbgbmutgmvnuglkbgklugfkzugrlnulbrklgoupbgqmuzuqrbmgbkgvfsaugsa,
qmrimgragbkgaul gsagbkgbmug.ubbuzgvrzgkpgakfugkbmuzgikslbztjggBmra,
Fv vfu,gragulksxm;gRgmkwugtksgqroogxrnugfugouvnugbkgzubszlgbkgft
 raikszau,gpzkfgqmrimgRgmvnugakgpvzg rxzuaau ,gbmug.ubbuzgbkg rnuzbgtksj”

Rbgqva,gRgbmrlc,gWuzrioua,gqmkg.urlxgvacu gmkqgmug r :g“Tksgfvtgys xu,”
gavtagmu,g“.tgbmuau,”gamkqrlxgakfugorbbougaizkooagkpgwvzimfulbgmugmv gbru 
v.ksbgmragluicgvl gvzfajgg.tgqmrimgmugqkso grlpuzgbmvbgmugfsabgluu ag.u
nuztgaricgqmulgmugqvagzu siu gbkgvgluiuaarbtgkpgmvnrlxgzuikszaugbkgasim
r ougvl gnvrlgpkwwuzrua,gvl gkpgasppuzrlxgmrfauopgbkg.ugakguesrwwu j
Rg vzuglkbgwzkfraug.sbgbmvbgRgfvtgklug vtg.ugakgfsimgvgpkkogvagbkgikffrb
ftgorpugvl g uvbmgbkgbmugfuzitgvl gxknuzlfulbgkpgwmtarirvla;gRgfvtgpvoo
rlbkgasimgvgpzuldt;gRg vzuglkbg.ugzuawklar.ougpkzgftgpsbszugiklabvlit:
.sbgbmul,grpgvltgklugvacgfugmkqgRg k,gRgfvtgvoakgvlaquz,gvagWuzriouag r ,
“Tksgfvtgys xug.tgbmra,”gamuqrlxgftgmvl giosbimrlxgarhg zvimfagkpgkwrsfj
Rbgqroog.ugvgnuztgunr ulbgarxlgkpgvgnrkoulbgaricluaa:gftgys xfulbgqroog.u
nuztgfsimgksbgkpgkz uz;grpgkliugpuvzgvl grfwvbruliugxubgasimgvlgv nvlbvxu
knuzgfu,grbgfvtgnuztgquoog.ugiklios u gbmvbgbmuzugragvg zuv psogpunuzgrl
ftgfrl j

Rgmvnugbvculgbmugwvrlagbkgwouv gbmragivsau,gqmrimgRgsl uzabvl 
rl rppuzulbot,gvgorbbougbkg.vicgvl gaswwkzbgbmuglvbszvogvnuzarklgbkg zsxa
vl gbmugwzvibriugkpgwmtarigRgmvnug uzrnu gpzkfgftgvliuabkza,gbkgbmugul 
rbgfvtglkbg.ugvgfuzugabswr gvl grliklar uzvbugvnuzarkl,g.sbgmvnugvgorbbou
fkzugpkzf;gvl gvoak,gbmvbgbmutgqmkgamvoogauugfugakgk.abrlvbugrlgft
zuakosbrklgvxvrlabgvooguhmkzbvbrklagvl gfulviuagbmvbgamvoog.ugxrnulgfu,
qmulgftgrlprzfrbtgamvoogwzuaagmvz uabgswklgfu,gfvtglkbgbmrlcg‘bragfuzu
k.abrlvitgrlgfu;gkzgvltgklugakgroo-lvbszu gvagbkgys xugrbgbkg.ugvlt
fkbrnugkpgxokzt:gpkzgrbgqkso g.ugvgabzvlxugvf.rbrklgbkgauucgbkgxvrl
mklkszg.tgvlgvibrklgftgxvz uluzgkzgftgxzkkfgivlgwuzpkzfgvagquoogvagRj
Iuzbvrlot,gRgmvnuglkbgvgmuvzbgakgbsfkzksagvl gqrl t,gbmvbgRgamkso 
uhimvlxugakgakor gvgwouvaszugvagmuvobmgpkzgvlgvrztgvl grfvxrlvzt
wouvaszu:gxokzt,gunulgbmvbgkpgbmugPkszgAklagkpgVtfkl,gragbkkg uvzg.ksxmb
.tgvgfvlgkpgftgmsfksz,grpgrbgikabgmrfgbmzuugaqrlxrlxgprbagkpgbmugabkluj
Xrnugfugmuvobm,grlgXk ’aglvfu!ggAsimgvagoknugwmtari,gfvtgvoakgmvnugxkk ,
xzuvb,gvl giklnrlirlxgiklar uzvbrkla;gRg kglkbgmvbugkwrlrklagiklbzvztgbk
ftgkql:gRgvfgak,gpvzgpzkfg.urlxgvlxztgbkgauugvg raizuwvlitg.ubqrhbgfrlu
vl gkbmuzgful’agys xfulba,gvl gpzkfgzul uzrlxgftauopgslprbgpkzgbmu
akirubtgkpgful,gpzkfg.urlxgkpgvlkbmuzgaulaugvl gwvzbtgbmvlgfrlu,gbmvbgkl
bmugiklbzvztg(bmugfkabgxuluzvogqvtgbmvbglvbszugmvagpkookqu g.urlx
nvzrubt,gvl gfkzugrlgaksoagbmvlg.k rua,gpkzvafsimgvagbmutgvzugkpgvgfkzu
aswwougas.abvliu,gvl gfkzugasaiuwbr.ougkpgpkzfa)gRgprl grbgfsimgfkzugzvzu
bkgauugkszgmsfkszagvl g uarxlagysfwgvl gvxzuujggVl gbmuzuglunuzgquzu,grl
bmugqkzo ,gbqkgkwrlrklagvorcu,glkgfkzugbmvlgbqkgmvrza,gkzgbqkgxzvrla:
bmurzgfkabgslrnuzavogesvorbtgrag rnuzarbtj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggRgvfgbkqvz agbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmug.vzzuo
gggggViisarlxgvoogkbmuzagkpgrxlkzvliugvl grfwkarbrkl
gggggVppuibrklgbkqvz agbmurzgmsa.vl a,g(lkb)gslbrogbmutgmvnugokabgbmuf
gggggVltbmrlxgkpgnvosugrlgmrf,goubgmrfgfvcugrbgvwwuvzgrlgmragikl sib
gggggVagrpgrfwvbruliugquzugkpgrbauopgvg.ubbuzgzufu tgbmvlgwvbruliu
gggggVaaszvliugbmutgxrnugsagkpgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurzg zsxa
gggggVbgouvab,grpgbmutg kglkgxkk ,gbmutgqroog kglkgmvzf
gggggVbbzr.sbugbkgrbauop;gvoogbmugmvwwtgasiiuaauagbmvbgmvwwul
ggggg.uabgwvzbgkpgvgivwbvrlgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgfvcugsaugkpgkiivarkla
ggggg.szlbgvl gzkvabu gpkzgkwrlrklagbvculgswklgbzsabgpzkfgkbmuza
gggggIkffrbgbmufauonuagbkgbmugikffklgpkzbslu
gggggIzvpbtgmsfrorbtgbmvbgawzrlxagpzkfgwzuasfwbrkl
ggggg r glkbgvwwzknugvoogakzbagkpgfuvlagbkgk.bvrlgvgnribkzt
ggggg rauvaugmv gvzzrnu gvbgrbagwuzrk gkzgvlguppuibgkpgimvliu?
ggggg raaulbrulbgvl gbsfsobsvztg zsxa
ggggg kglkbgfsimg.ovfugbmufgpkzgfvcrlxgbmurzgv nvlbvxugkpgkszgpkoot
ggggg kibkza:gfkzugpuorirbtgvl g szvbrklgrlgbmurzgkqlgornua?
ggggg kibzrlugfsimgfkzugrlbzrivbugvl gpvlbvabrigbmvlgbmugbmrlxgrbauop
ggggg zsxag.urlxgrlgrbagkqlglvbszugvlguluftgbkgkszgmuvobm
gggggUnulgbmugnuztgwzkfrauagkpgwmtarigvzugrlizu r.ougrlgbmufauonua
gggggPvbmuzagikliuvogbmurzgvppuibrklgpzkfgbmurzgimro zul
gggggMugqmkgwzknr uagpkzgvoo,gwzknr uagpkzglkbmrlx
gggggMuvobmg uwul agswklgbmugnvlrbtgvl gpvoarbtgkpgbmurzgwzkfraua
gggggMuvobmgragvobuzu gvl gikzzswbu g.tgbmurzgpzuesulbgwzuaizrwbrkla
gggggMuvobmgbkg.ugqkzbmgwszimvarlxg.tgvoogbmugfkabgwvrlpsogivsbuzrua
gggggMkfuz:gBmugklotgqkz agbmvbgmvnugfkbrklgvl gvibrkl
gggggRg vzuglkbgwzkfraug.sbgbmvbgRgfvtgklug vtg.ugakgfsimgvgpkko
gggggRgauuglkgwukwougakgakklgaricgvagbmkaugqmkgbvcugwmtari
gggggRl raizuubg uarzugkpgvgwzuaulbgiszu,gbmvbgakg.orl gsa
gggggRlbul u gbkgxubgvgluqgmsa.vl gbmvlgbkgovfulbgbmugko 
gggggOubgrbgvoklugvgorbbou
gggggOrpugamkso g.ugisbgkppgrlgbmugaksl gvl gornrlxgwvzb
gggggOrnugvgesrbugiklbzvztgakzbgkpgorpugbkgqmvbgbmutgwzuaizr.ugkbmuza
gggggOrnu,glkbgakgoklxgvagbmutgwouvau,g.sbgvagoklxgvagbmutgksxmb
gggggOovtrlxgbmugpvsobgswklgbmugwvbrulb,g.tgasimgpzrnkoksagzuvakla
gggggOklxgvgnktvxugRgamkso gvbgovabgzslgftauopgrlbkgakfug rav nvlbvxu
gggggFvcrlxgbmurzgv nvlbvxugkpgkszgpkoot,gpkzgfkabgfulg kgbmugavfu
gggggFvlgfvtgqrbmgouaagbzks.ougv vwbgmrfauopgbkgulbrzugv.abrluliu
gggggFvlgzslagvgnuztgxzuvbgmvdvz grlgbmurzgmvl ag(kpgwmtarirvla)
gggggFvzcgkpgarlxsovzgxkk glvbszugbkgwzuauznugko gvxu
gggggFulgfsabguf.vzc,gvl glkbg uor.uzvbu,gswklgmrxmgulbuzwzraua
gggggFuziulvzruagqmkgqkso gzuiurnugvltg(wvt)
gggggFk uzvbrklgragvgnrzbsugbmvbgxrnuagfkzugqkzcgbmvlgasppuzrlx
gggggFkzugnvosu gvgnribkztgk.bvrlu g.tgikslauogbmvlg.tgpkziu
gggggFkabgfulg kglkbgakgfsimg.uorunugvagbmutgviesruaiugvl gwuzfrb
gggggLunuzgvltgfvlgcluqgakgfsim,gvl gawvcugakgorbbou
gggggLkg vlxuzgqrbmgbmuf,gbmksxmgbmutgfvtg kgsaglkgxkk 
gggggLkgkbmuzgpksl vbrklgkzgaswwkzbgbmvlgws.origv.sau
gggggLkgwmtarigbmvbgmvaglkbgakfubmrlxgmszbpsogrlgrb
gggggLk.ougvl gzrim,gqmuzuguhvfwouagkpgnrzbsugvzugzvzuotgok xu 
gggggK.abrlvitgragbmugarabuzgkpgiklabvlit
gggggKz uzgvgwszxugpkzgtkszg.zvrl,grbgqroogbmuzug.ugfsimg.ubbuz
gggggKz rlvliuagrbg(Fu rirlu)gpkrabagswklgsa
gggggWvaarklgmvagvgfkzugv.akosbugikffvl gknuzgsagbmvlgzuvakl
gggggWvtgnuztgabzribgsasztgqmkg r glkbgrlg sugbrfugwvtgbmugwzrlirwvo
gggggWukwougvzugqroorlxgbkg.ugxsoou grlgqmvbgbmutg uarzu
gggggWmtarirvl’ag“muow”,gqmrimgragnuztgkpbulgvlgk.abviou
gggggWmtarirvlagvzuglkbgiklbulbgbkg uvogklotgqrbmgbmugaric
gggggWmtarirvlagpuvzgfulgamkso gvbgvltgbrfuguaivwugbmurzgvsbmkzrbt
gggggWmtarirvlagquzugbmugklotgfulgqmkgfrxmbgorugvbgwouvaszu
gggggWmtarirvla:guvzbmgiknuzagbmurzgpvroszua
gggggWovbkgavr gkpgbmugUxtwbrvla,gbmvbgbmutgquzugvoogwmtarirvla
gggggWszugikqvz riugbmvbgfvcuagkszg.uorupgakgworv.ou
gggggZuikfful vbrklgkpgabzvlxuluaa,gzvzrbt,gvl g uvzgwszimvau
gggggAul gsagbkgbmug.ubbuzgvrzgkpgakfugkbmuzgikslbzt
gggggAmkso gprzabgmvnugful u gbmurzg.zuuimua
gggggAfrougswklgsagqmroabgqugvzugvornu
gggggAkgvsabuzugvl gnuztgqraugikslbulvliugvl givzzrvxug(kpgwmtarirvla)
gggggAkgfsimgvzugfulgulaovnu gbkgbmurzgfrauzv.oug.urlx
gggggAkoklgavr gbmvbguvbrlxgqvagwmtarigvxvrlabgbmugfvov tgmslxuz
gggggAbzvlxuotgasawuibgvoogbmragfuzimvl rau:gfu rivogivzu
gggggAbs rua,gbkgbuvimgfugbkg k,gvl glkbgbkgqzrbu
gggggAsimgvgzuirwugvagbmutgqrooglkbgbvcugbmufauonua
gggggBmvbgmugikso glurbmuzgzuv glkzgaqrf
gggggBmug.v.toklrvlagivzzru gbmurzgaricgrlbkgbmugws.origaesvzu
gggggBmutg(xkk gqkful)gvzuglkbg.tgbmug kdul,gvagunuztgklugclkqa
gggggBmutgmvnuglkbgklugfkzugrlnulbrklgoupbgqmuzuqrbmgbkgvfsaugsa
gggggBmutgysxxougvl gbzrpougrlgvoogbmurzg raikszauagvbgkszguhwulau
gggggBmutglunuzgoknu gbmufgbroog uv 
gggggBragrlgakfugakzbgvgcrl gkpg trlxgbkgvnkr gbmugwvrlgkpgornrlxgquo
gggggBraglkbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgful,g.sbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgxkk gful
gggggBragbmuzugamugbvocagwovrlgPzulim
gggggBkg.u,glkbgbkgauuf
gggggBkgcuuwgfugpzkfg trlxgraglkbgrlgtkszgwkquz
gggggBqkgkwrlrklagvorcu,glkgfkzugbmvlgbqkgmvrza
gggggBtzvllrivogvsbmkzrbtgwmtarirvlagsaszwgknuzgwkkzgizuvbszua
gggggNulbszugrbgswklgmraglurxm.ksz,grpgmugqroogoubgmrf
gggggNulbszugbmugfvcrlxgkszauonuag.ubbuzgqrbmksbgvltg vlxuz
gggggQugiklpuaagkszgrxlkzvliugrlgfvltgbmrlxa
gggggQug kglkbguvarotgviiuwbgbmugfu rirlugqugsl uzabvl 
gggggQmvbgvzug.uikfugkpgvoogkszg.zvnugwmrokakwmrivogwzuiuwba?
gggggQmvbgqugmvnuglkbgauul,gqugvzugpkziu gbkgzuiurnugpzkfgkbmuzgmvl a
gggggQmvbunuzgqvaglkbgkz rlvztg rub,gqvagrlabuv gkpgvg zsx
gggggQmrfwuzrlxgragkppularnugbkgbmugornrlxgvl gnvrlgbkgbmug uv 
gggggQmkg kuaglkbg.kvabgkpgakfugzvzugzuirwu
gggggQmkgunuzgavqgklugwmtarirvlgvwwzknugkpgvlkbmuz’agwzuaizrwbrkl
gggggQroorlxotgxrnugbmufgouvnugbkgovsxmgvpbuzgqugvzug uv 
gggggQrbmg.urlxgbkkgquoogRgvfgv.ksbgbkg ru
gggggQklbgbkgxrnugkbmuzagbmurzgorpu,gvl glkbgbkgzuiurnugrb
gggggTksgfvtgrl uu gfvcugfug rugvlgroog uvbm






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg14j

RjggggggggKpgWzkprbgvl gMkluabtj
RRjgggggggKpgZuwulbvliuj
RRRjggggggKpgBmzuugIkffuziuaj
RNjgggggggKpg rnuzarklj



UAAVTAgKPgFKLBVRXLU

.KKCgBMUgBMRZ 



IMVWBUZgR

KPgWZKPRBgVL gMKLUABT

Lkgfvlgragpzuugpzkfgawuvcrlxgpkkoramgbmrlxa;g.sbgbmugqkzabgkl’bgra,gqmul
vgfvlgov.kszagbkgwovtgbmugpkko:

ggggggggggggggg“Lvugrabugfvxlkgiklvbsgfvxlvaglsxvag rhuzrbj”

ggggg[“Bzsotgmu,gqrbmgvgxzuvbguppkzbgqroogamkzbotgavtgvgfrxmbtgbzrpouj”
gggggg---Buzuliu,gMuvsbj,gvibgrrrj,gajg4j]

Bmrag kuaglkbgikliuzlgfu;gfrlugaorwgpzkfgfugqrbmgvagorbbougivzugvagbmut
vzugkpgorbbougnvosu,gvl g‘bragbmug.ubbuzgpkzgbmufjggRgqkso gwzuaulbot
wvzbgqrbmgbmufgpkzgqmvbgbmutgvzugqkzbm,gvl glurbmuzg.stglkzgauoogbmuf,
.sbgvagbmutgqurxmjggRgawuvcgklgwvwuz,gvagRg kgbkgbmugprzabgwuzaklgRgfuub;
vl gbmvbgbmragragbzsu,gk.auznugqmvbgpkookqaj

Bkgqmkfgksxmbglkbgbzuvimuztgbkg.ugmvbupso,gqmulgBr.uzrsagzupsau grbgrlgv
bmrlxgkpgakgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgmrf?ggMugmv gqkz gaulbgmrfgpzkfgXuzfvlt
bmvbgrpgmugbmksxmbgprb,gbmutgqkso gzr gmrfgkpgVzfrlrsag.tgwkrakl:gbmra
qvagbmugfkabgwkbulbguluftgbmugZkfvlagmv ,gqmkgmv g upuvbu gbmufgak
rxlkfrlrksaotgsl uzgNvzsa,gvl gqmkgvoklugwzunulbu gbmurzgvxxzvl raufulb
rlgbmkaugwvzbaj

Mugzubszlu gvlaquz,g“bmvbgbmugwukwougkpgZkfugquzugqklbgbkgzunulxu
bmufauonuagkpgbmurzgulufruag.tgkwulgqvta,gvl gqrbmgbmurzgaqkz agrlgbmurz
mvl a,gvl glkbgiovl uabrluotgvl g.tgpzvs ”:gqmuzurlgmugesrbbu gbmu
wzkprbv.ougpkzgbmugmkluabjggTksgqroogbuoogfugbmvbgmugqvagvg.zvxxv kirk;gR
.uorunugakgbkk:gvl g‘braglkgxzuvbgfrzviougrlgfulgkpgmragwzkpuaarkljgg.sb
bmugviclkqou xfulbgkpgnrzbsugraglkbgouaagnvor grlgbmugfksbmgkpgmrfgqmk
mvbuagrb,gpkzvafsimgvagbzsbmgpkziuagrbgpzkfgmrf,gvl grpgmugqrooglkb
rlqvz otgzuiurnugrb,gmugvbgouvabgwsbagrbgklgpkzgvg uikzvbrklj

Kszgksbqvz gvl grlqvz gabzsibszugragpsoogkpgrfwuzpuibrkl;g.sbgbmuzugra
lkbmrlxgsauouaagrlglvbszu,glkbgunulgrlsbrorbtgrbauop;glkbmrlxgmva
rlarlsvbu grbauopgrlbkgbmragslrnuzaugbmvbgmvaglkbgbmuzurlgakfugprbgvl 
wzkwuzgwoviujggKszg.urlxgragiufulbu gqrbmgaricotgesvorbrua:gvf.rbrkl,
yuvoksat,gulnt,gzunulxu,gaswuzabrbrkl,gvl g uawvrzgmvnugakglvbszvogv
wkaauaarklgrlgsa,gbmvbgrbagrfvxugrag raiuzlu grlg.uvaba;glvt,gvl 
izsuobt,gakgsllvbszvogvgnriu;gpkzgunulgrlgbmugfr abgkpgikfwvaarklgqugpuuo
qrbmrl,gRgclkqglkbgqmvbgbvzb-aquubgbrbroovbrklgkpgroo-lvbszu gwouvaszugrl
auurlxgkbmuzagasppuz;gvl gbmugimro zulgpuuogrb:

ggggggggg“Asvnugfvzrgfvxlk,gbsz.vlbr.sagvueskzvgnulbra,
ggggggggggUgbuzzvgfvxlsfgvobuzrsagawuibvzugov.kzuf:”

ggggg[“Rbgragaquub,gqmulgbmugqrl ag rabsz.gbmugqvbuzagkpgbmugnvabgauv,gbk
gggggqrbluaagpzkfgovl gbmugwuzrogkpgkbmuzgwuzaklaj”--Osizubrsa,grrjgRj]

kpgbmugauu agkpgqmrimgesvorbrua,gqmkunuzgamkso g rnuabgfvl,gqkso g uabzkt
bmugpsl vfulbvogikl rbrklagkpgmsfvlgorpujggOrcuqrau,grlgvoogxknuzlfulba
bmuzugvzugluiuaavztgkppriua,glkbgklotgv.yuib,g.sbgnrirksagvoakjggNriua
bmuzugmuowgbkgfvcugswgbmugauvfgrlgkszgwruirlx,gvagwkraklagvzugsaupsogpkz
bmugiklauznvbrklgkpgmuvobmjggRpgbmutg.uikfuguhisav.oug.uivsaugbmutgvzugkp
saugbkgsa,gvl gbmvbgbmugikffklgluiuaarbtgiknuzagbmurzgbzsugesvorbrua,gqu
vzugbkgzuarxlgbmragwvzbgbkgbmugabzklxuabgvl g.ko uabgirbrdula,gqmk
avizrpriugbmurzgmklkszgvl giklairuliu,gvagkbmuzagkpgko gavizrpriu gbmurz
ornua,gpkzgbmugxkk gkpgbmurzgikslbzt:gqu,gqmkgvzugquvcuz,gbvcugswklgsa
wvzbag.kbmgbmvbgvzugfkzuguvatgvl gouaagmvdvz ksajggBmugws.origquvo
zuesrzuagbmvbgfulgamkso g.ubzvt,gvl goru,gvl gfvaavizu;goubgsagouvnugbmra
ikffraarklgbkgfulgqmkgvzugfkzugk.u rulbgvl gfkzugaswwouj

Rlguvzluab,gRgmvnugkpbulg.uulgbzks.ou gbkgauugys xua,g.tgpzvs gvl gpvoau
mkwuagkpgpvnkszgkzgwvz kl,gvooszugvgizrfrlvogbkgiklpuaagmragpvib,gvl 
bmuzurlgbkgfvcugsaugkpgikdulvxugvl grfws uliujggRbgqkso g.uikfugysabriu,
vl gWovbkgmrfauop,gqmkgikslbulvliuagbmragfvlluzgkpgwzkiuu rlx,gbkgpszlram
fugqrbmgkbmuzgfuvlagfkzugasrbv.ougbkgftgkqlgorcrlx:gbmragragvgfvorirksa
crl gkpgysabriu,gvl gRgokkcgswklgrbgvaglkgouaagqksl u g.tgrbauopgbmvlg.t
kbmuzajggRgavr glkbgoklxgarliugbkgakfugikfwvltgrlg raikszau,gbmvbgR
amkso gmvz otg.ug zvqlgbkg.ubzvtgftgwzrliugpkzgvgwvzbrisovzgfvl,gqmk
amkso g.ugfsimgvamvfu gbkg.ubzvtgvltgwvzbrisovzgfvlgpkzgftgwzrliu;gvl gR
 kglkbgklotgmvbug uiurnrlxgftauop,g.sbgbmvbgvltgklugamkso g uiurnu
bmzksxmgfu;gRgqrooglurbmuzgvppkz gfvbbuzglkzgkiivarklgbkgvltgasimgbmrlxj

RlgbmugorbbougRgmvnugmv gbkgfu rvbug.ubqrhbgkszgwzrliua--[.ubquulgbmu
CrlxgkpgLvnvzzu,gvpbuzqvz agMulztgRNj,gvl gbmug sig ugXsraujggAuug u
Bmks,g ugNrbvgAsv,grrrjg9j]--rlgbmug rnrarklagvl gas. rnrarklag.tgqmrim
qugvzugvbgbmragbrfugbkzlgbkgwruiua,gRgmvnug.uulgnuztgivzupsogbmvbgbmut
amkso glurbmuzg.ug uiurnu grlgfuglkzg uiurnugkbmuzag.tgfujggWukwougkp
bmvbgcrl gkpgbzv rlxgvzugnuztgzuauznu ,gvl gwzubul gbkg.ugbmugfkab
fk uzvbugrfvxrlv.ougvl gluvzuabgbkgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgbmut
mvnugbkg k;gRguhwkaugftauopgrlgftgabrppgkwrlrkl,gvl gvpbuzgvgfubmk gbmu
fkabgftgkql;gvgbul uzgluxkbrvbkz,gvglknriu,gqmkgmv gzvbmuzgpvrogrlgbmu
vppvrzgbmvlg.ugqvlbrlxgbkgftauopjggVl gtubgrbgmvag.uulgmrbmuzbkgqrbmgak
xkk gosicg(pkzgpkzbslugmvag ks.bouaagbmug.uabgamvzugrlgrb),gbmvbgpuq
bmrlxagmvnugwvaau gpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl gqrbmgouaagasawrirklgkzgfkzugpvnksz
vl gwzrnvitjggRgmvnugvgpzuugvl gkwulgqvtgbmvbguvarotgrlarlsvbuagrbauop
vl gk.bvrlag.uorupgqrbmgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgRgvfgbkg uvogvbgbmugprzab
fuubrlxjggArliuzrbtgvl gwszugbzsbm,grlgqmvbgvxugakunuz,gwvaagpkzgiszzulb;
vl g.uar ua,gbmugor.uzbtgvl gpzuu kfgkpgvgfvlgqmkgbzuvbagqrbmksbgvlt
rlbuzuabgkpgmragkqlgraglunuzgmvbupsogkzgasawuibu ,gvl gmugfvtgnuztgquoo
fvcugsaugkpgbmugvlaquzgkpgMtwuzr uagbkgbmugVbmulrvla,gqmkgikfwovrlu gkp
mrag.oslbgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx:g“Fuaarusza,g kglkbgiklar uzgqmubmuzgkzglkgRgvf
pzuu,g.sbgqmubmuzgRgvfgakgqrbmksbgvg.zr.u,gkzgqrbmksbgvltgv nvlbvxugbkgft
kqlgvppvrzaj”ggFtgor.uzbtgkpgawuvcrlxgmvagvoakguvarotgiouvzu gfugpzkfgvoo
asawrirklgkpg raauf.orlxg.tgrbagnumufulit,gouvnrlxglkbmrlxgslavr ,gmkq
mkfugvl g.rbbuzgakunuzg(akgbmvbgRgikso gmvnugavr glkgqkzaug.umrl gbmurz
.vica),gvl grlgbmvbgrbgivzzru gvoklxgqrbmgrbgvgfvlrpuabgamkqgkp
arfworirbtgvl grl rppuzuliujggRgwzubul gbkglkgkbmuzgpzsrbg.tgvibrlxgbmvl
bkgvib,gvl gv  gbkgrbglkgoklxgvzxsfulbagkzgwzkwkarbrkla;gunuztgvibrkl
wovtagrbagkqlgxvfu,gqrlgrpgrbgivlj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgvfglkbgaqvtu g.tgvltgwvaarkl,gurbmuzgkpgoknugkzgmvbzu ,
bkqvz agbmugxzuvb,glkzgmvagftgqroogivwbrnvbu gurbmuzg.tgwvzbrisovzgrlyszt
kzgk.orxvbrkljggRgokkcgswklgkszgcrlxagqrbmgvlgvppuibrklgarfwotgoktvogvl 
zuawuibpso,glurbmuzgwzkfwbu glkzgzuabzvrlu g.tgvltgwzrnvbugrlbuzuab,gvl 
RgoknugftauopgpkzgrbjggLkzg kuagbmugxuluzvogvl gysabgivsaugvbbzvibgfu
kbmuzqraugbmvlgqrbmgfk uzvbrkl,gvl gqrbmksbgmuvbjggRgvfglkbgas.yuibgbk
bmkaugwulubzvbrlxgvl giokaugikfwvibagvl gulxvxufulbajggVlxuzgvl gmvbzu 
vzug.utkl gbmug sbtgkpgysabriu;gvl gvzugwvaarklagklotgsaupsogbkgbmkaugqmk
 kglkbgcuuwgbmufauonuagabzribotgbkgbmurzg sbtg.tgarfwougzuvakl:

gggggggggg“Sbvbszgfkbsgvlrfr,gesrgsbrgzvbrkluglklgwkbuabj”

ggggg[“Mugfvtgufwoktgmragwvaarkl,gqmkgivlgfvcuglkgsaugkpgmragzuvaklj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grnjg25j]

Voogouxrbrfvbugrlbulbrklagvzugbufwuzvbugvl guesv.ougkpgbmufauonua;grp
kbmuzqrau,gbmutg uxuluzvbugrlbkgau rbrksagvl gslovqpsojggBmragragrbgqmrim
fvcuagfugqvocgunuztqmuzugqrbmgftgmuv guzuib,gftgpviugvl gftgmuvzbgkwulj
Rlgbzsbm,gvl gRgvfglkbgvpzvr gbkgiklpuaagrb,gRgamkso guvarot,grlgivaugkp
luu ,gmko gswgklugivl ougbkgAbjgFrimvuogvl gvlkbmuzgbkgmrag zvxkl,gorcu
bmugko gqkfvl;gRgqroogpkookqgbmugzrxmbgar ugunulgbkgbmugprzu,g.sb
uhiosarnuot,grpgRgivljggOubgFklbvrxlug.ugknuzqmuofu grlgbmugws.origzsrl
rpgluu g.u;g.sbgrpgbmuzug.uglkgluu ,gRgamkso gbmrlcgftauopgk.orxu gbk
pkzbslugbkgavnugfu,gvl gRgqroogfvcugsaugkpgvoogbmugoulxbmgkpgorlugftg sbt
vookqagpkzgmragwzuauznvbrkljggQvagrbglkbgVbbrisagqmk,g.urlxgkpgbmugysab
.sbgokarlxgar u,gwzuauznu gmrfauopg.tgmragfk uzvbrklgrlgbmvbgslrnuzavo
amrwqzuicgkpgbmugqkzo ,gvfklxabgakgfvltgfsbvbrklagvl g rnuzarbrua?ggPkz
wzrnvbugfvl,gvagmugqva,grbgragfkzuguvat;gvl grlgasimgcrl gkpgqkzc,gR
bmrlcgvgfvlgfvtgysabotglkbg.ugvf.rbrksagbkgkppuzgvl grlarlsvbugmrfauopj
Pkzgvgfvl,grl uu ,gbkg.ugqvnuzrlxgvl grzzuakosbu,gbkgcuuwgmragvppuibrkl
slfknu gvl gqrbmksbgrliorlvbrklgrlgbmugbzks.ouagkpgmragikslbztgvl gws.ori
 rnrarkla,gRglurbmuzgbmrlcgrbgmvl akfuglkzgmkluab:

gggggggggg“Uvglklgfu rv,gau glsoovgnrvguab,gnuosbgunulbsf
gggggggggguhawuibvlbrsf,geskgpkzbslvugiklarorvgasvgvwworiulbj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgraglkbgvgfr  ougqvt,g.sbglkgqvt,gbkgvqvrbgunulba,g.tgqmrim
gggggbmutgzupuzgbmurzgzuakosbrklagbkgpkzbsluj”--Ornt,ghhhrrjg21j]

Bmragfvtg.ugvookqu grlgkszglurxm.ksza’gvppvrza;gvl gbmsagXuok,gbmugbtzvlb
kpgAtzvisau,gasawul u gmragrliorlvbrklgrlgbmugqvzg.ubqrhbgbmugXzuucagvl 
.vz.vzrvla,gcuuwrlxgvgzuar ulbgvf.vaav kzgqrbmgwzuaulbagvbg uowmka,gbk
qvbimgvl gauugqmrimgqvtgpkzbslugqkso grliorlu,gvl gbmulgbvcugprbgkiivarkl
bkgpvoogrlgqrbmgbmugnribkzajggRbgqkso g.ugvgcrl gkpgbzuvaklgbkgwzkiuu 
vpbuzgbmragfvlluzgrlgkszgkqlg kfuabrigvppvrza,gqmuzurlgvgfvlgfsabgkp
luiuaarbtg.ugkpgbmugklugar ugkzgbmugkbmuz;gbmksxmgpkzgvgfvlgqmkgmvaglk
kppriugkzguhwzuaagikffvl gbkgivoogmrfgksb,gbkgarbgabroogRgmko grbgfkzu
uhisav.oug(vl gtubgRg kglkbguhisaugftauopgswklgbmuaugbuzfa)gbmvlgrl
pkzurxlguhwu rbrkla,gbkgqmrim,gmkqunuz,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgovqa,glkgfvlgra
wzuaau gvxvrlabgmragqroojggVl gtubgunulgbmkaugqmkgqmkootgulxvxu
bmufauonuagrlgasimgvgqvzgfvtg.umvnugbmufauonuagqrbmgasimgbufwuzgvl 
fk uzvbrkl,gbmvbgbmugabkzfgfvtgpotgknuzgbmurzgmuv agqrbmksbg krlxgbmuf
vltgmvzfjggMv gquglkbgzuvaklgbkgmkwugasimgvlgraasugrlgbmugwuzaklgkpgbmu
ovbug.ramkwgkpgKzouvla,gbmugAruszg ugFkznrooruza?

ggggg[Vlgv.ougluxkbrvbkz,gqmk,gbmksxmgwzkbuibu g.tgbmugXsraua,gvl 
gggggabzklxotgaswwkzbrlxgbmuf,gqvagtubgnuztgpvzgpzkfgwuzauisbrlxgbmu
gggggZupkzfrabajggMug ru g1577j]

Vl gRgclkq,gvfklxabgbmkaugqmkg.umvnugbmufauonuagfkabg.zvnuotgrlgbmu
wzuaulbgqvz,gakfugqmkaugfvlluzagvzugakgxulbou,gk.orxrlx,gvl gysab,gbmvb
bmutgqroogiuzbvrlotgabvl gprzf,gqmvbunuzgunulbgMuvnulgragwzuwvzrlxgpkz
sajggRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgrbgwzkwuzotg.uoklxagbkgcrlxagklotgbkgesvzzuo
qrbmgcrlxa;gvl gRgovsxmgvbgbmkaugawrzrbagqmk,gksbgkpgorxmbluaagkpgmuvzb,
oul gbmufauonuagbkgakg rawzkwkzbrklu g rawsbua;gpkzgvgfvlgmvaglunuzgbmu
fkzugwvzbrisovzgesvzzuogqrbmgvgwzrliu,g.tgfvzimrlxgkwulotgvl g.ko ot
vxvrlabgmrfgpkzgmragkqlgmklkszgvl gviikz rlxgbkgmrag sbt;grpgmug kuaglkb
oknugasimgvgwuzakl,gmug kuag.ubbuz,gmuguabuufagmrfjggVl glkbv.otgbmu
ivsaugkpgbmugovqagvl gkpgbmugvlirulbgxknuzlfulbgkpgvgcrlx kf,gmvagbmra
voqvtagvlluhu gbkgrb,gbmvbgunulgbmkaugqmk,gpkzgbmurzgkqlgwzrnvbu
rlbuzuab,grlnv ugbmuf,guhisau,grpgbmutg kglkbgmklksz,gbmug upul uzaj

.sbgqugvzuglkb,gvagquglkqv vtag k,gbkgivoogwuunramluaagvl grlqvz 
 raiklbulb,gbmvbgawzrlxgpzkfgwzrnvbugrlbuzuabgvl gwvaarkl,g sbt,glkzgv
bzuvimuzksagvl gfvorirksagikl sib,gikszvxu;gbmutgivoogbmurzgwzkluluaagbk
fraimrupgvl gnrkouliugduvo;g‘braglkbgbmugivsau,g.sbgbmurzgrlbuzuab,gbmvb
rlpovfuagbmuf;gbmutgcrl ougvl g.uxrlgvgqvz,glkbg.uivsaugrbgragysab,g.sb
.uivsaugrbgragqvzj

Vgfvlgfvtgnuztgquoog.umvnugmrfauopgikffk rksaotgvl goktvootgbkkgvfklxab
bmkaugkpgbmugv nuzaugwvzbt;givzztgtkszauop,grpglkbgqrbmgbmugavfuguesvo
vppuibrklg(pkzgbmvbgragivwv.ougkpg rppuzulbgfuvaszu),gvbgouvabgqrbmgvl
vppuibrklgfk uzvbu,gquoogbufwuzu ,gvl gasimgvagamvooglkbgakgulxvxugtksgbk
klugwvzbt,gbmvbgrbgfvtg ufvl gvoogtksgvzugv.ougbkg kgpkzgbmvbgar u,
iklbulbgtkszauopgqrbmgvgfk uzvbugwzkwkzbrklgkpgbmurz,gpvnkszgvl 
xkk qroo;gvl gbkgaqrfgrlgbzks.ou gqvbuzagqrbmksbgpramrlxgrlgbmufj

Bmugkbmuzgqvt,gkpgkppuzrlxgvgfvl’agauopgvl gbmugsbfkabgauznriugmugragv.ou
bkg k,g.kbmgbkgklugwvzbtgvl gbmugkbmuz,gmvagabroogouaagkpgwzs uliugrlgrb
bmvlgiklairuliujgg kuaglkbgmugbkgqmkfgtksg.ubzvtgvlkbmuz,gbkgqmkfgtks
quzugvagquoikfugvagbkgmrfauop,gclkqgbmvbgtksgqroogvbgvlkbmuzgbrfug kgva
fsimgpkzgmrf?ggMugmko agtksgpkzgvgnroovrl;gvl grlgbmugfuvlbrfugmuvzagqmvb
tksgqroogavt,gxvbmuzagrlbuoorxuliugpzkfgtks,gvl gqkzcagmragkqlgul agksb
kpgtkszg raoktvobt;g ks.ou- uvorlxgfulgvzugsaupsogpkzg.zrlxrlxgrl,g.sbgqu
fsabgmvnugvgivzugbmutgivzztgksbgvagorbbougvagragwkaar.ouj

RgavtglkbmrlxgbkgklugwvzbtgbmvbgRgfvtglkb,gswklgkiivarkl,gavtgbkgbmu
kbmuz,gqrbmgvgorbbougvobuzvbrklgkpgviiulb;gvl gzuwkzbglkbmrlxg.sbgbmrlxa
urbmuzgrl rppuzulbgkzgclkql,gkzgqmvbgragkpgikffklgiklauesuliujggRgivllkb
wuzfrbgftauop,gpkzgvltgiklar uzvbrkl,gbkgbuoogbmufgvgorujggQmvbgra
rlbzsabu gbkgftgauizuit,gRgzuorxrksaotgikliuvo;g.sbgRgbvcugvagpuqgbzsaba
kpgbmvbglvbszugswklgfugvagRgivljggBmugauizubagkpgwzrliuagvzugv
bzks.ouakfug.szbmulgbkgasimgvagvzuglkbgrlbuzuabu grlgbmufjggRgnuzt
qroorlxotg.vzxvrlgbmvbgbmutgbzsabgfugqrbmgorbbou,g.sbgiklpr ulbotgzuot
swklgqmvbgRgbuoogbmufjggRgmvnugunuzgclkqlgfkzugbmvlgRg uarzu jggKlugkwul
qvtgkpgawuvcrlxgrlbzk siuagvlkbmuzgkwulgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx,gvl g zvqagksb
 raiknuzrua,gorcugqrlugvl goknujggWmrorwwr ua,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gvlaquzu 
CrlxgOtarfvimsagnuztg raizuubot,gqmk,gvacrlxgmrfgqmvbgkpgmraguabvbugmu
amkso g.uabkqgswklgmrf?gg“Qmvbgtksgqroo,”gavr gmu,g“wzknr u grbg.uglklu
kpgtkszgauizubaj”ggRgauugunuztgklugrag rawouvau grpgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmu
vppvrzg.ugikliuvou gpzkfgmrfgqmuzurlgmugragufwoktu ,gkzgbmvbgbmuzug.ugvlt
zuauznvbrklgrlgbmugbmrlx;gpkzgftgwvzb,gRgvfgiklbulbgbkgclkqglkgfkzugkp
bmug.sarluaagbmvlgqmvbgbmutgqkso gmvnugfugufwoktgftauopgrl,glkzg uarzu
bmvbgftgclkqou xugamkso guhiuu gkzgzuabzribgqmvbgRgmvnugbkgavtjggRpgR
fsabgauznugpkzgvlgrlabzsfulbgkpg uiurb,goubgrbg.ugvbgouvabgqrbmgvgavpu
iklairuliu:gRgqrooglkbg.ugzuwsbu gvgauznvlbgurbmuzgakgvppuibrklvbugkzgak
oktvogvagbkg.ugprbgbkg.ubzvtgvltgklu:gmugqmkgragslpvrbmpsogbkgmrfauop,gra
uhisav.otgakgbkgmragfvabuzjgg.sbgbmutgvzugwzrliuagqmkg kglkbgviiuwbgful
.tgmvonua,gvl g uawraugorfrbu gvl gikl rbrklvogauznriua:gRgivllkbgmuow
rb:gRgpzvlcotgbuoogbmufgmkqgpvzgRgivlgxk;gpkzgvgaovnugRgamkso glkbg.u,
.sbgbkgzuvakl,gvl gRgivlgmvz otgas.frbgunulgbkgbmvbjggVl gbmutgvoakgvzu
bkg.ovfugbkguhvibgpzkfgvgpzuufvlgbmugavfugas.yuibrklgvl gk.orxvbrklgbk
bmurzgauznriugbmvbgbmutg kgpzkfgmrfgbmutgmvnugfv ugvl g.ksxmb,gkzgqmkau
pkzbslugwvzbrisovzotgvl guhwzuaaotg uwul agswklgbmurzajggBmugovqagmvnu
 uornuzu gfugpzkfgvgxzuvbgvlhrubt;gbmutgmvnugimkaulgvgar ugpkzgfu,gvl 
xrnulgfugvgfvabuz;gvoogkbmuzgaswuzrkzrbtgvl gk.orxvbrklgksxmbgbkg.u
zuovbrnugbkgbmvb,gvl gisb,gkppgpzkfgvoogkbmuzjggTubgbmragraglkbgbkgavt,
bmvbgrpgftgvppuibrklgamkso gkbmuzqraugrliorlugfu,gftgmvl gamkso 
wzuaulbotgk.utgrb;gbmugqroogvl g uarzugvzugvgovqgbkgbmufauonua;g.sb
vibrklagfsabgzuiurnugikffraarklgpzkfgbmugws.origvwwkrlbfulbj

Voogbmragwzkiuu rlxgkpgfrlugragvgorbboug raaklvlbgpzkfgbmugkz rlvzt
pkzfa;grbgqkso gwzk siuglkgxzuvbguppuiba,glkzg.ugkpgvltgoklxg szvbrkl;
rllkiuliugrbauopgikso glkb,grlgbmragvxugkpgksza,gurbmuzgluxkbrvbugqrbmksb
 raarfsovbrkl,gkzgbzvpprigqrbmksbgotrlx;gvl ,grl uu ,gws.origufwoktfulba
vzug.tglkgfuvlagpkzgftgwvovbu:gqmvbgftgwzkpuaarklgzuesrzua,gRgwuzpkzf
vpbuzgbmugfkabgwzrnvbugfvlluzgbmvbgRgivljgg.urlxgtkslx,gRgqvagulxvxu gsw
bkgbmuguvzagrlg.sarluaa,gvl grbgasiiuu u gquoo;g.sbgRg raulxvxu gftauop
rlgxkk gbrfujggRgmvnugkpbulgarliugvnkr u gfu  orlxgrlgrb,gzvzuot
viiuwbu ,gvl glunuzgvacu grb;gcuuwrlxgftg.vicgabroogbszlu gbkgvf.rbrkl;
.sbgrpglkbgorcugzkquzagqmkgakgv nvliug.vicqvz ,gtubgak,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,
bmvbgRgvfgouaagk.orxu gbkgftgzuakosbrklgbmvlgbkgftgxkk gpkzbslu,gbmvbgR
qvaglkbgqmkootguf.vzcu grlgrbjggPkzgbmuzugvzugqvtagouaag rawouvarlxgbkgft
bvabu,gvl gfkzugasrbv.ougbkgftgv.rorbt,g.tgqmrim,grpgamugmv gpkzfuzot
ivoou gfugbkgbmugws.origauznriu,gvl gftgkqlgv nvliufulbgbkqvz agbmu
qkzo ’agkwrlrkl,gRgclkqgRgamkso ,grlgawrbugkpgvoogftgkqlgvzxsfulbagbkgbmu
iklbzvzt,gmvnugwszasu gbmufjggAsimgvagikffklotgavt,grlgkwwkarbrklgbkgqmvb
Rgwzkpuaa,gbmvbgqmvbgRgivoogpzuu kf,garfworirbt,gvl gwovrlluaagrlgft
fvlluza,gragvzbgvl gas.boubt,gvl gzvbmuzgwzs uliugbmvlgxkk luaa,grl sabzt
bmvlglvbszu,gxkk gaulaugbmvlgxkk gosic,g kgfugfkzugmklkszgbmvlg raxzviu:
.sb,giuzbvrlot,gbmutgfvcugftgas.boubtgbkkgas.bou;gvl gqmkunuzgmva
pkookqu gfugiokau,gvl gwztu glvzzkqotgrlbkgfu,gRgqroogxrnugmrfgbmu
nribkzt,grpgmug kuaglkbgiklpuaagbmvbgbmuzugraglkgzsougrlgbmurzgaimkko
bmvbgikso gfvbimgbmraglvbszvogfkbrkl,gvl gfvrlbvrlgvlgvwwuvzvliugkp
or.uzbtgvl goriuliu,gakguesvogvl grlpouhr.ou,gbmzksxmgakgfvltgnvzrksagvl 
izkkcu gwvbma,gvl gbmvbgvoogbmurzgqrbgvl gul uvnkszgikso glunuzgmvnugou 
bmufgbmzksxmjggBmugqvtgkpgbzsbmgragklugvl garfwou;gbmvbgkpgwvzbrisovz
wzkprb,gvl gbmugikffk rbtgkpgvppvrzagvgfvlgragulbzsabu gqrbm,grag ks.ou,
sluesvo,gvl givasvojggRgmvnugkpbulgauulgbmuaugikslbuzpurbgvl gvzbrprirvo
or.uzbruagwzvibrau ,g.sb,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gqrbmksbgasiiuaa;gbmutgzuoram
kpgVUakw’agvaagqmk,grlgufsovbrklgkpgbmug kx,gk.orxrlxotgiovwwu gmragbqk
pkzu-puubgswklgmragfvabuz’agamkso uza;g.sbgvagfvltgivzuaauagvagbmug kx
mv gpkzgasimgvlguhwzuaarklgkpgcrl luaa,gbqriugakgfvltg.okqagqrbmgvgis xuo
mv gbmugwkkzgvaagpkzgmragikfworfulb:

ggggg“R gfvhrfugesufesug uiub,gesk guabgisysaesugassfgfvhrfuj”

ggggg[“Bmvbg.uabg.uikfuagunuztgfvlgqmrimg.uoklxagfkabgbkgmrf;”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg31j]

Rgqrooglkbg uwzrnug uiurbgkpgrbag su;gbmvbgquzug.sbgroogbkgsl uzabvl gbmu
qkzo :gRgclkqgrbgmvagkpbulg.uulgkpgxzuvbgsau,gvl gbmvbgrbgfvrlbvrlagvl 
aswworuagfkabgful’agufwoktfulbjggBmuzugvzugnriuagbmvbgvzugovqpso,gva
bmuzugvzugfvltgvibrkla,gurbmuzgxkk gkzguhisav.ou,gbmvbgvzuglkbgovqpsogrl
bmufauonuaj

Bmugysabriugqmrimgrlgrbauopgraglvbszvogvl gslrnuzavogragkbmuzqraugvl 
fkzuglk.otgkz uzu gbmvlgbmvbgkbmuzgysabriugqmrimgragawuirvo,glvbrklvo,
vl giklabzvrlu gbkgbmugul agkpgxknuzlfulb,

gggggggggg“Nuzrgyszragxuzfvlvuesugysabrbrvugakor vfgubguhwzuaavf
ggggggggggupprxrufglsoovfgbulufsa;gsf.zvgubgrfvxrlr.sagsbrfsz;”

ggggg[“Qugzubvrlglkgakor gvl guhwzuaagwkzbzvrbszugkpgbzsugzrxmbgvl 
gggggxuzfvlugysabriu;gqugmvnugklotgbmugamv kqgvl grfvxugkpgrbj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjg17j]

rlakfsimgbmvbgbmugavxug vl vfra,gmuvzrlxgbmugornuagkpgAkizvbua,
Wtbmvxkzva,gvl g rkxuluagzuv ,gys xu gbmufgbkg.ugxzuvbgfulgunuztgqvt,
uhiuwbrlxgbmvbgbmutgquzugbkkgfsimgas.yuibu gbkgbmugzunuzuliugkpgbmugovqa,
qmrim,gbkgauikl gvl gvsbmkzrau,gbzsugnrzbsugfsabgv.vbugnuztgfsimgkpgrba
kzrxrlvognrxksz;gfvltgnrirksagvibrklagvzugrlbzk siu ,glkbgklotg.tgbmurz
wuzfraarkl,g.sbg.tgbmurzgv nriu:

ggggg“Uhgaulvbsagiklasobragwou.raesuairbragaiuouzvguhuziulbszj”

ggggg[“Izrfuagvzugikffrbbu g.tgbmug uizuuagkpgbmugAulvbugvl gbmu
gggggwkwsovzgvaauf.otj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g95j]

Rgpkookqgbmugikffklgwmzvaugbmvbg rabrlxsramuag.ubqrhbgwzkprbv.ougvl 
mkluabgbmrlxa,gakgvagbkgivoogakfuglvbszvogvibrkla,gbmvbgvzuglkbgklot
wzkprbv.oug.sbgluiuaavzt,g ramkluabgvl gpksoj

.sbgoubgsagwzkiuu grlgkszguhvfwouagkpgbzuvimuztgbqkgwzubul uzagbkgbmu
crlx kfgkpgBmzviu--[Zmuaiswkzragvl gIkbtajgBvirbsa,gVllvoj,grrjgg65]--
quzugpvooulgrlbkg rawsbugv.ksbgbmurzgbrbou;gbmugufwuzkzgmrl uzu gbmuf
pzkfgwzkiuu rlxgbkg.okqa:g.sbgklugkpgbmuf,gsl uzgikokszgkpg.zrlxrlx
bmrlxagbkgvgpzrul otgraasug.tgvlgrlbuznruq,gmvnrlxgrlnrbu gmragikfwubrbkz
bkgvlgulbuzbvrlfulbgrlgmragkqlgmksau,grfwzraklu gvl gcroou gmrfjggYsabriu
zuesrzu gbmvbgbmugZkfvlagamkso gmvnugavbrapvibrklgpkzgbmragkppuliu;g.sb
bmuzugqvagvg rpprisobtgrlgk.bvrlrlxgrbg.tgkz rlvztgqvta;gqmvb,gbmuzupkzu,
bmutgikso glkbg kgouxrbrfvbuot,gqrbmksbgqvzgvl gqrbmksbg vlxuz,gbmut
zuakonu gbkg kg.tgbzuvimuzt;gvl gqmvbgbmutgikso glkbgmkluabotg k,gbmut
 r gwzkprbv.otjggPkzgqmrimgul ,gklugWkfwklrsagPoviisagqvagpksl gbkg.ugv
prbgrlabzsfulbjggBmragfvl,g.tg raauf.ou gqkz agvl gvaaszvliua,gmvnrlx
 zvqlgbmugkbmuzgrlbkgmragbkroa,grlabuv gkpgbmugmklkszgvl gpvnkszgmugmv 
wzkfrau gmrf,gaulbgmrfg.ksl gmvl gvl gpkkbgbkgZkfujggMuzugklugbzvrbkz
.ubzvtu gvlkbmuz,giklbzvztgbkgikffklgisabkf:gpkzgbmutgvzugpsoogkp
frabzsab,gvl g‘bragmvz gbkgknuzzuvimgbmufgrlgbmurzgkqlgvzb:gqrbluaagbmu
av guhwuzruliugqugmvnugovbuotgmv j--[Fklbvrxlugmuzugwzk.v.otgzupuzagbk
bmugpurxlu gzuiklirorvbrklg.ubquulgIvbmuzrlug ugFu rirgvl gMulzr,g sig u
Xsrau,grlg1588j]

Oubgqmkgqroog.ugWkfwklrsagPoviisa,gvl gbmuzugvzugulksxmgqmkgqkso :gpkzgft
wvzb,g.kbmgftgqkz gvl gftgpvrbmgvzu,gorcugvoogbmugzuab,gwvzbagkpgbmra
ikffklg.k t:gbmurzg.uabguppuibgragbmugws.origauznriu;gbmragRgbvcugpkz
wzuaswwkau jgg.sbgamkso gklugikffvl gfugbkgbvcugimvzxugkpgbmugikszbagkp
ovqgvl govqasrba,gRgamkso gfvcugvlaquz,gbmvbgRgsl uzabkk grbglkb;gkzgbmu
woviugkpgvgouv uzgkpgwrkluuza,gRgqkso gavt,gbmvbgRgqvagivoou gbkgvgfkzu
mklkszv.ougufwoktfulb;gakgorcuqrau,gmugbmvbgqkso gufwoktgfugbkgoru,
.ubzvt,gvl gpkzaquvzgftauop,gbmksxmglkbgbkgvaavaarlvbugkzgbkgwkrakl,gpkz
akfuglkbv.ougauznriu,gRgamkso gavt,g“RpgRgmvnugzk..u gkzgabkoulgvltbmrlx
pzkfgvltgfvl,gaul gfugzvbmuzgbkgbmugxvooutaj”ggPkzgrbgragwuzfraar.ougrlgv
fvlgkpgmklkszgbkgavt,gvagbmugOviu vufklrvlag r ,--[Wosbvzim,g rppuzuliu
.ubquulgvgPovbbuzuzgvl gvgPzrul ,gijg21j]--mvnrlxg.uulg upuvbu g.t
Vlbrwvbuz,gqmulgysabgswklgiklios rlxgvlgvxzuufulb:g“Tksgfvtgrfwkaugva
muvntgvl gzsrlksagbvhuagswklgsagvagtksgwouvau,g.sbgbkgikffvl gsagbkg k
amvfupsogvl g ramkluabgbmrlxa,gtksgqroogokaugtkszgbrfu,gpkzgrbgragbkglk
wszwkauj”ggUnuztgklugksxmbgbkgfvcugbmugavfugnkqgbkgmrfauopgbmvbgbmugcrlxa
kpgUxtwbgfv ugbmurzgys xuagakouflotgaquvz,gbmvbgbmutgqkso glkbg k
vltbmrlxgiklbzvztgbkgbmurzgiklairuliua,gbmksxmglunuzgakgfsimgikffvl u gbk
rbg.tgbmufauonuajggRlgasimgikffraarklagbmuzugragunr ulbgfvzcgkpgrxlkfrlt
vl gikl uflvbrkl;gvl gmugqmkgxrnuagrbgvbgbmugavfugbrfugviisauagtks,gvl 
xrnuagrb,grpgtksgsl uzabvl grbgzrxmb,gpkzgvg.sz ulgvl gvgwslramfulbj
Vagfsimgvagbmugws.origvppvrzagvzug.ubbuzu g.tgtkszguhwokrb,gakgfsimgvzu
tkszgkqlgbmugqkzau,gvl gbmug.ubbuzgtksg.umvnugtkszauopgrlgrb,g‘bragak
fsimgbmugqkzaugpkzgtkszauop;gvl grbgqroog.uglkgluqgbmrlx,glkz,
wuzv nulbszu,gqrbmksbgakfugikokszgkpgysabriu,grpgbmugavfugwuzaklgzsrl
tksgqmkgaubgtksgklgqkzcj

Rpgbzuvimuztgivlg.ugrlgvltgivauguhisav.ou,grbgfsabg.ugklotgakgqmulgrbgra
wzvibrau gbkgimvabraugvl g.ubzvtgbzuvimuztjggBmuzugvzuguhvfwouagulksxmgkp
bzuvimuzrua,glkbgklotgzuyuibu ,g.sbgimvabrau gvl gwslramu g.tgbmkaugrl
pvnkszgkpgqmkfgbmutgquzugsl uzbvculjggQmkgragrxlkzvlbgkpgPv.zrirsa
aulbuliugvxvrlabgbmugwmtarirvlgkpgWtzzmsa?

.sbgbmragqugvoakgprl gzuikz u ,gbmvbgakfugwuzaklagmvnugikffvl u gvgbmrlx,
qmkgvpbuzqvz gmvnugaunuzuotgvnulxu gbmuguhuisbrklgkpgrbgswklgmrfgbmutgmv 
ufwoktu ,gzuyuibrlxgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgakgsl.zr ou gvlgvsbmkzrbt,gvl 
 rakqlrlxgakgv.vl klu gvl g.vaugvgauznrbs ugvl gk.u ruliujggYvzkwuoc,
 scugkpgZsaarv,gbvfwuzu gqrbmgvgxulboufvlgkpgMslxvztgbkg.ubzvtg.kouaovsa,
crlxgkpgWkovl ,gurbmuzg.tgcroorlxgmrf,gkzg.tgxrnrlxgbmugZsaarvla
kwwkzbslrbtgbkg kgmrfgakfuglkbv.ougfraimrupjggBmragqkzbmtgqulbgv.otgbk
qkzc:gmugqvagfkzugvaar sksagbmvlg.upkzugrlgbmugauznriugkpgbmvbgcrlx,gak
bmvbgmugk.bvrlu gbmugmklkszgbkg.ugkpgmragiksliro,gvl gklugkpgbmugimrupuab
rlgmragbzsabjggQrbmgbmuaugv nvlbvxua,gvl gbvcrlxgvlgkwwkzbslugkiivarklgkp
mragfvabuz’agv.auliu,gmug.ubzvtu gNraoridv,gvgxzuvbgvl gzrimgirbt,gbkgbmu
Zsaarvla,gqmrimgqvagulbrzuotgavicu gvl g.szlu ,gvl glkbgklotgvoogbmu
rlmv.rbvlbagkpg.kbmgauhua,gtkslxgvl gko ,gwsbgbkgbmugaqkz ,g.sbgfkzuknuz
vgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpglurxm.kszrlxgxulbzt,gqmkfgmugmv g zvqlgbmrbmuzgbkgbmvb
ul jggYvzkwuoc,gmragzunulxug.urlxgbmsagavbrapru gvl gmragvlxuzgvwwuvau ,
qmrimgqvaglkb,grl uu ,gqrbmksbgwzubuliug(pkzg.kouaovsagmv gmrxmot
kppul u gmrf,gvl gvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz),gvl gavbu gqrbmgbmugpzsrbgkp
bmragbzuvimuzt,gikfrlxgbkgiklar uzgbmugpsoluaagkpgrb,gqrbmgvgaksl 
ys xfulbgvl giouvzgpzkfgwvaarkl,gokkcu gswklgqmvbgmv g.uulg klugqrbmgak
fsimgmkzzkzgvl gzufkzaugbmvbgmugivsau gbmugutuagbkg.ug.kzu gksbgvl gbmu
bklxsugvl gamvfupsogwvzbagbkg.ugisbgkppgkpgmrfgqmkgmv gwuzpkzfu grbj

Vlbrxklsagwuzasv u gbmugVzxtzvawr uagbkg.ubzvtgUsfulua,gbmurzgxuluzvo,
mragv nuzavzt,grlbkgmragmvl a;g.sbgvpbuzgmugmv givsau gmrf,gakg uornuzu ,
bkg.ugaovrl,gmugqkso gmrfauopg.ugbmugikffraarkluzgkpgbmug rnrlugysabriu
pkzgbmugwslramfulbgkpgakg ubuabv.ougvgizrfu,gvl gikffrbbu gbmufgrlbkgbmu
mvl agkpgbmugxknuzlkzgkpgbmugwzknrliu,gqrbmguhwzuaagikffvl ,g.tgqmvbunuz
fuvla,gbkg uabzktgvl g.zrlxgbmufgvoogbkgvlgunrogul ,gakgbmvbgkpgbmvb
xzuvbglsf.uzgkpgful,glkbgakgfsimgvagklugunuzgzubszlu gvxvrlgrlbk
Fviu klrv:gbmug.ubbuzgmugmv g.uulgauznu ,gbmugfkzugqricu otgmugys xu grb
bkg.u,gvl gfuzrbrlxgxzuvbuzgwslramfulbj

Bmugaovnugqmkg.ubzvtu gbmugwoviugqmuzugmragfvabuz,gWjgAsowrirsa,govt
ikliuvou ,gqva,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzkfraugkpgAtoov’agwzkaizrwbrkl,
fvlsfrbbu gpkzgmragwvrla;g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzkfraugkpgbmugws.ori
ysabriu,gqmrimgqvagpzuugpzkfgvltgasimgulxvxufulb,gmugqvagbmzkqlgmuv oklx
pzkfgbmugBvzwurvlgzkicj

KszgCrlxgIoknra,grlabuv gkpgbmugvzfagkpgxko gmugmv gwzkfrau gbmuf,givsau 
bmzuugkpgIvzvzru’agauznvlbagbkg.ugmvlxu gvpbuzgbmutgmv g.ubzvtu gbmurz
fvabuzgbkgmrf,gbmksxmgmugmv g u.vsimu gbmufgbkgrb:gmugmvlxu gbmufgqrbm
bmugwszaugkpgbmurzgzuqvz gv.ksbgbmurzgluica;gvpbuzgmvnrlxgavbrapru gmra
auikl gvl gawuirvogpvrbm,gmugavbrapru gbmugxuluzvogvl gprzabj

Fkmvffu gRRjggmvnrlxgzuakonu gbkgzr gmrfauopgkpgmrag.zkbmuz,gksbgkp
yuvoksatgkpgabvbu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzvibriugkpgbmugKbbkfvlgpvfrot,gmu
ufwoktu gklugkpgmragkppriuzagrlgbmuguhuisbrkl,gqmk,gwkszrlxgvgesvlbrbtgkp
qvbuzgbkkgpvabgrlbkgmrf,gimkcu gmrfjggBmrag.urlxg klu,gbkguhwrvbugbmu
fsz uz,gmug uornuzu gbmugfsz uzuzgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgbmugfkbmuzgkpgmrfgmu
mv gakgivsau gbkg.ugwsbgbkg uvbm,gpkzgbmutgquzugklotg.zkbmuzag.tgbmu
pvbmuz’agar u;gamu,grlgmragwzuauliu,gzrwwu gswgbmugfsz uzuz’ag.kakf,gvl 
qrbmgmuzgkqlgmvl agzrpou gmrag.zuvabgpkzgmragmuvzb,gbkzugrbgksb,gvl 
bmzuqgrbgbkgbmug kxajggVl gunulgbkgbmugqkzabgwukwougrbgragbmugaquubuab
bmrlxgrfvxrlv.ou,gmvnrlxgkliugxvrlu gbmurzgul g.tgvgnrirksagvibrkl,gbk
pkrab,grlgvoogauiszrbt,grlbkgrbgakfugamkqgkpgnrzbsugvl gysabriu,gvag.t
qvtgkpgikfwulavbrklgvl giklairulbrksagikzzuibrkl;gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,
bmvbgbmutgokkcgswklgbmugfrlrabuzagkpgasimgmkzzr gizrfuagvagswklgfulgqmk
zuwzkvimgbmufgqrbmgbmuf,gvl gbmrlcg.tgbmurzg uvbmagbkguzvaugbmugfufkzt
vl gbuabrfkltgkpgasimgwzkiuu rlxaj

Kzgrp,gwuzmvwa,gtksgvzugzuqvz u ,glkbgbkgpzsabzvbugbmugws.origluiuaarbt
pkzgbmvbguhbzufugvl g uawuzvbugzufu t,gmugqmkg kuagrbgivllkbgpkzgvoo
bmvb,grpgmug.uglkbgasimgmrfauop,g.sbgokkcgswklgtksgvagvlgviiszau gvl 
uhuizv.ougpuookq,gvl giklios ugtksgvgxzuvbuzgbzvrbkzgbmvlgmug kua,
vxvrlabgqmkfgtksgvzugak:gpkzgmugbzruagbmugfvorxlrbtgkpgtkszg rawkarbrkl
.tgtkszgkqlgmvl a,gqmuzugmugivllkbgwkaar.otg.ug uiurnu ,gtksgmvnrlxglk
k.yuibgkpgwzuiu rlxgmvbzu gbkgfknugtksgbkgasimgvlgvib;g.sbgmugufwoktagtks
vagbmutg kgikl uflu gfvoupvibkzagrlguhuisbrklagkpgysabriu,gvlgkppriugva
luiuaavztgvag ramklkszv.oujgg.uar uagbmug.vauluaagkpgasimgikffraarkla,
bmuzugra,gfkzuknuz,gvgwzkabrbsbrklgkpgiklairuliujggAuurlxgbmvbgbmu
 vsxmbuzgkpgAuyvlsagikso glkbg.ugwsbgbkg uvbmg.tgbmugovqgkpgZkfu,g.uivsau
amugqvagvgnrzxrl,gamugqva,gbkgfvcugrbgovqpso,gprzabgzvnramu g.tgbmu
mvlxfvlgvl gbmulgabzvlxou :glkbgklotgmragmvl g.sbgmragaksogragaovnugbk
bmugws.origiklnulruliuj

QmulgVfszvbmgRj,gfkzugxzrunksaotgbkgwslramgmragas.yuibagqmkgmv gbvcul
wvzbgrlgbmugwvzzrir ugzu.uoorklgkpgmragakl,gkz vrlu gbmvbgbmurzgluvzuab
crl zu gamkso gvaarabgrlgbmuguhuisbrkl,gRgprl grbgnuztgmvl akfugrlgakfu
kpgbmufgbkgmvnugzvbmuzgimkaulgbkg.ugslysabotgbmksxmbgxsrobtgkpgbmu
wvzzrir ugkpgvlkbmuzgbmvlgbkgauznugysabriug.tgvgwvzzrir ugkpgbmurzgkqlj
Vl gqmuzugRgmvnugauul,gvbgbmugbvcrlxgkpgakfugorbbougpkzbg.tgvaavsobgrlgft
brfu,gakfugzvaivoagqmk,gbkgavnugbmurzgkqlgornua,gqkso giklaulbgbkgmvlx
bmurzgpzrul agvl gikfwvlrkla,gRgmvnugokkcu gswklgbmufgbkg.ugkpgqkzau
ikl rbrklgbmvlgbmkaugqmkgquzugmvlxu jgg‘Bragavr ,gbmvbgQrbko ,gWzrliugkp
Orbmsvlrv,grlbzk siu grlbkgbmuglvbrklgbmugwzvibriugbmvbgbmugizrfrlvo
ikl uflu gbkg uvbmgamkso gqrbmgmragkqlgmvl guhuisbugbmugaulbuliu,
bmrlcrlxgrbgabzvlxugbmvbgvgbmrz gwuzakl,grllkiulbgkpgbmugpvsob,gamkso g.u
fv ugxsrobtgkpgmkfrir uj

Vgwzrliu,gqmulg.tgakfugszxulbgirzisfabvliugkzgakfugrfwubsksagvl 
slpkzuauulgviir ulbgbmvbgnuztgfsimgikliuzlagmragabvbu,gikfwuoou gbk
pkzpurbgmragqkz gvl g.zuvcgmragpvrbm,gkzgkbmuzqraugpkziu gpzkfgmra
kz rlvztg sbt,gksxmbgbkgvbbzr.sbugbmragluiuaarbtgbkgvgovamgkpgbmug rnrlu
zk :gnriugrbgraglkb,gpkzgmugmvagxrnulgswgmragkqlgzuvaklgbkgvgfkzu
slrnuzavogvl gfkzugwkquzpsogzuvakl;g.sbgiuzbvrlotg‘bragvgfrapkzbslu:gak
bmvbgrpgvltgklugamkso gvacgfugqmvbgzufu t?gg“Lklu,”gavtgR,g“rpgmugquzu
zuvootgzvicu g.ubquulgbmuaugbqkguhbzufua:g‘au gnr uvb,glugeskuzvbsz
ovbu.tvgwuzyszrk’,gmugfsabg kgrb:g.sbgrpgmug r grbgqrbmksbgzuxzub,grpgrb
 r glkbgqurxmgklgmrfgbkg kgrb,g‘bragvgarxlgmragiklairuliugragrlgvgakzzt
ikl rbrklj”ggRpgbmuzug.ugvgwuzaklgbkg.ugpksl gkpgakgbul uzgvgiklairuliu
vagbkgbmrlcglkgiszugqmvbunuzgqkzbmgakgrfwkzbvlbgvgzufu t,gRgamvoogorcu
mrfglunuzgbmugqkzau;gmugikso glkbgfkzuguhisav.otgkzgfkzug uiulbotgwuzramj
Qugivllkbg kgvoogqugqkso ,gakgbmvbgqugfsabgkpbul,gvagbmugovabgvlimkzvxu,
ikffrbgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgkszgnuaauoagbkgbmugarfwougikl sibgkpgmuvnulj
Bkgqmvbgfkzugysabgluiuaarbtg kuagmugzuauznugmrfauop?ggQmvbgragouaa
wkaar.ougpkzgmrfgbkg kgbmvlgqmvbgmugivllkbg kg.sbgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgmra
pvrbmgvl gmklksz,gbmrlxagbmvb,gwuzmvwa,gksxmbgbkg.ug uvzuzgbkgmrfgbmvl
mragkqlgavpubt,gkzgunulgbmugavpubtgkpgmragwukwoujggBmksxmgmugamkso ,gqrbm
pko u gvzfa,gklotgivoogXk gbkgmragvaarabvliu,gmvagmuglkbgzuvaklgbkgmkwu
bmvbgbmug rnrlugxkk luaagqrooglkbgzupsaugbmugpvnkszgkpgvlguhbzvkz rlvzt
vzfgbkgysabgvl gwszugmvl a?ggBmuaugvzug vlxuzksaguhvfwoua,gzvzugvl 
aricotguhiuwbrklagbkgkszglvbszvogzsoua:gqugfsabgtruo gbkgbmuf,g.sbgqrbm
xzuvbgfk uzvbrklgvl girzisfawuibrkl:glkgwzrnvbugsbrorbtgragkpgasim
rfwkzbvliugbmvbgqugamkso gswklgbmvbgviikslbgabzvrlgkszgiklairuliuagbk
asimgvg uxzuu:gbmugws.origfvtg.u,gqmulgnuztgfvlrpuabgvl gkpgnuztgxzuvb
ikliuzlj

Brfkouklgfv ugvgbrfuotguhwrvbrklgpkzgmragabzvlxuguhwokrbg.tgbmugbuvzagmu
amu ,givoorlxgbkgfrl gbmvbgrbgqvagqrbmgvgpzvbuzlvogmvl gbmvbgmugmv gaovrl
bmugbtzvlb;gvl grbgysabotgwzricu gmragiklairuliugbmvbgmugmv g.uul
luiuaarbvbu gbkgwszimvaugbmugws.origsbrorbtgvbgakgxzuvbgvgwzriugvagbmu
nrkovbrklgkpgmragwzrnvbugfkzvorbtjggUnulgbmugAulvbugrbauop,g.tgmragfuvla
 uornuzu gpzkfgaovnuzt,g szabglkbgwkarbrnuotg ubuzfrlugkpgakgmrxmgvgpvib,
vl g rnr u grlbkgbqkgakgrfwkzbvlbgvl giklbzvztgvawuiba;g.sbgbmu
Atzvisavla,ggaul rlxgvbgbmugavfugbrfugbkgbmugIkzrlbmrvlagbkgakorirbgbmurz
wzkbuibrkl,gvl gbkgzuesrzugkpgbmufgvgivwbvrlgprbgbkgzu-uabv.oramgbmurz
irbtgrlgrbagpkzfuzg rxlrbtgvl gbkgiouvzgArirotgkpgaunuzvogorbbougbtzvlba
.tgqmkfgrbgqvagkwwzuaau ,gbmutg uwsbu gBrfkouklgpkzgbmvbgauznriu,gqrbm
bmragisllrlxg uiovzvbrkl;g“bmvbgviikz rlxgvagmugamkso g.umvnugmrfauop
quoogkzgroogrlgmragufwoktfulb,gbmurzgaulbuliugamkso grliorlugurbmuzgbk
pvnkszgbmug uornuzuzgkpgmragikslbzt,gkzgbkg rapvnkszgbmugfsz uzuzgkpgmra
.zkbmuzj”ggBmragpvlbvabrigikliosarklgivzzruagvoklxgqrbmgrbgakfuguhisau,
.tgzuvaklgkpgbmug vlxuzgkpgbmuguhvfwou,gvl gbmugrfwkzbvliugkpgakgabzvlxu
vlgvibrkl:gvl gbmutg r gquoogbkg raimvzxugbmurzgkqlgys xfulbgkpgrb,gvl 
bkgzupuzgrbgbkgkbmuzagqmkgquzuglkbgakgfsimgikliuzlu jgg.sbgBrfkoukl’a
ikfwkzbfulbgrlgbmraguhwu rbrklgakklgfv ugmragivsaugfkzugiouvz,gak
qkzbmrotgvl gnrzbsksaotgmug ufuvlu gmrfauopgswklgvoogkiivarkla;gvl gbmu
xkk gpkzbslugbmvbgviikfwvlru gmrfgrlgbmug rpprisobruagmugmv gbkgknuzikfu
rlgbmraglk.ougufwoktfulb,gauufu gbkg.ugabzuqu grlgmragqvtg.tgbmugxk a,
pvnkszv.otgiklawrzrlxgpkzgmragysabrprivbrklj

Bmugul gkpgbmragfvbbuzgraguhisav.ou,grpgvltgivlg.ugak;g.sbgbmugwzkprbgkp
bmugvsxfulbvbrklgkpgbmugws.origzunulsu,gbmvbgauznu gbmugZkfvlgAulvbugpkz
vgwzubuliugbkgbmugpksogikliosarklgRgvfgxkrlxgbkgzuovbu,graglkbgaspprirulb
bkgqvzzvlbgvltgasimgrlysabriuj

Iuzbvrlgirbruagmv gzu uufu gbmufauonuagvl gbmurzgor.uzbtg.tgfklut,g.tgbmu
kz uzgvl giklaulbgkpgbmugAulvbu,gksbgkpgbmugmvl agkpgOjgAtoov:gbmu
.sarluaagikfrlxgvxvrlgrlgesuabrkl,gbmugAulvbugikl uflu gbmufgbkg.u
bvhv.ougvagbmutgquzug.upkzu,gvl gbmvbgbmugfklutgbmutgmv g ra.szau gpkz
bmurzgzu ufwbrklgamkso g.ugokabgbkgbmufjggIrnrogqvzgkpbulgwzk siuagasim
nroovrlksaguhvfwoua;gbmvbgqugwslramgwzrnvbugfulgpkzgiklpr rlxgrlgsagqmul
qugquzugws.origfrlrabuza:gvl gbmugauop-avfugfvxrabzvbugfvcuagvlkbmuzgfvl
wvtgbmugwulvobtgkpgmragimvlxugbmvbgmvaglkbmrlxgbkg kgqrbmgrb;gbmu
wu vxkxsugqmrwagmragaimkovzgpkzgmrag kirorbt;gvl gbmugxsr ug.uvbagbmu
.orl gfvlgqmkfgmugouv ag.tgbmugmvl ;gvgmkzzr grfvxugkpgysabriuj

Bmuzugvzugzsouagrlgwmrokakwmtgbmvbgvzug.kbmgpvoaugvl gquvcjggBmuguhvfwou
bmvbgragwzkwkau gbkgsagpkzgwzupuzzrlxgwzrnvbugsbrorbtg.upkzugpvrbmgxrnul,
mvaglkbgqurxmbgulksxmg.tgbmugirzisfabvliuagbmutgwsbgbkgrb;gzk..uzagmvnu
aurdu gtks,gvl gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugtksgaquvzgbkgwvtgbmufgvgiuzbvrlgasfgkp
fklut,g rafraagtksjgg‘Braglkbgquoog klugbkgavt,gbmvbgvlgmkluabgfvlgivlg.u
esrbgkpgmragkvbmgqrbmksbgwvtfulb,g.urlxgksbgkpgbmurzgmvl ajgg‘Braglkgasim
bmrlx:gqmvbgpuvzgmvagkliugfv ugfugqroorlxgbkg k,gRgvfgk.orxu gbkg kgrb
qmulgRgvfglkgoklxuzgrlgpuvz;gvl gbmksxmgbmvbgpuvzgklotgwzunvrou gqrbmgft
bklxsugqrbmksbgpkzirlxgftgqroo,gtubgvfgRg.ksl gbkgcuuwgftgqkz jggPkzgft
wvzb,gqmulgftgbklxsugmvagakfubrfuagrliklar uzvbuotgavr gakfubmrlxgbmvbgR
 r glkbgbmrlc,gRgmvnugfv ugvgiklairuliugkpg rakqlrlxgrb:gkbmuzqrau,g.t
 uxzuua,gqugamvoogv.koramgvoogbmugzrxmbgvlkbmuzg uzrnuagpzkfgkszgwzkfraua
vl gkvbma:

ggggggggggggggg“Esvargnuzkgpkzbrgnrzkgnragwkaarbgv mr.uzrj”

gggggggggg[“Vagbmksxmgvgfvlgkpgbzsugikszvxugikso g.ugikfwuoou j”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjg30j]

Vl g‘bragklotgovqpso,gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgwzrnvbugrlbuzuab,gbkguhisau
.zuvimgkpgwzkfrau,gqmulgqugmvnugwzkfrau gakfubmrlxgbmvbgragslovqpsogvl 
qricu grlgrbauop;gpkzgbmugzrxmbgkpgnrzbsugksxmbgbkgbvcugwoviugkpgbmu
zrxmbgkpgvltgk.orxvbrklgkpgkszaj

Rgmvnugpkzfuzotgwoviu gUwvfrlkl vagrlgbmugprzabgzvlcgkpguhiuooulbgful,
vl g kglkbgzuwulbgrbjggMkqgmrxmg r gmugabzubimgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpgmra
kqlgwvzbrisovzg sbt?gmugqmkglunuzgcroou gvgfvlgqmkfgmugmv gknuzikfu;gqmk,
pkzgbmugrluabrfv.oug.uluprbgkpgzuabkzrlxgbmugor.uzbtgkpgmragikslbzt,gfv u
iklairuliugkpgcroorlxgvgbtzvlbgkzgmragviikfworiuagqrbmksbg sugpkzfgkp
ysabriu:gvl gqmkgiklios u gmrfgbkg.ugvgqricu gfvl,gmkqgxkk gvgirbrdul
akunuzgkbmuzqrau,gqmkgvfklxabgmragulufruagrlg.vbbougawvzu glkbgmragpzrul 
vl gmragxsuabjggBmragqvagvgaksogkpgvgzrimgikfwkarbrkl:gmugfvzzru 
xkk luaagvl gmsfvlrbt,glvt,gunulgbmugbul uzuabgvl gfkabg uorivbugrlgbmu
qmkougaimkkogkpgwmrokakwmt,gbkgbmugzksxmuabgvl gfkabgnrkoulbgmsfvl
vibrklajggQvagrbglvbszugkzgvzbgbmvbgmv grlbuluzvbu gbmvbgxzuvbgikszvxugkp
mra,gakgpsoo,gakgk.abrlvbugvxvrlabgwvrlgvl g uvbmgvl gwknuzbt,gbkgasimgvl
uhbzufug uxzuugkpgaquubluaagvl gikfwvaarkl?gg zuv psogrlgvzfagvl g.okk ,
mugknuzzvlgvl gas. su gvglvbrklgrlnrlir.oug.tgvoogkbmuzag.sbg.tgmrf
voklu;gvl gtubgrlgbmugmuvbgkpgvlgulikslbuz,gikso gbszlgvar ugpzkfgmra
pzrul gvl gxsuabjggIuzbvrlotgmugqvagprbgbkgikffvl grlgqvzgqmkgikso gak
zurlgmrfauopgqrbmgbmugisz.gkpgxkk glvbszu,grlgbmugmurxmbgvl gmuvbgkpgmra
pszt,gvgpsztgrlpovfu gvl gpkvfrlxgqrbmg.okk gvl gaovsxmbuzjgg‘Bragv
frzviougbkg.ugv.ougbkgfrhgvltgrfvxugkpgysabriugqrbmgasimgnrkoulbgvibrkla:
vl grbgqvagklotgwkaar.ougpkzgasimgvgabuv pvabluaagkpgfrl gvagbmvbgkp
Uwvfrlkl vagbmuzurlgbkgfrhgaquubluaagvl gbmugpvirorbtgkpgbmugxulbouab
fvlluzagvl gwszuabgrllkiuliujggVl gqmuzuvagklugbko gbmugFvfuzbrlrgbmvb
abvbsbuagquzugkpglkgupprivitgvxvrlabgvzfu gful;gvl gvlkbmuzgbko gbmu
bzr.slugkpgbmugwukwougbmvbgbmugbrfugkpgysabriugvl gkpgqvzgquzug rabrlib
bmrlxa;gvl gvgbmrz gavr gbmvbgbmuglkraugkpgvzfag uvpulu gbmugnkriugkp
ovqa,gbmragfvlgqvaglkbgwzuios u gpzkfgorabulrlxgbkgbmugovqagkpgirnrorbt
vl gwszugikszbuatjggMv gmuglkbg.kzzkqu gpzkfgmragulufruagbmugisabkfgkp
avizrprirlxgbkgbmugFsauagqmulgmugqulbgbkgqvz,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbg.tgbmurz
aquubluaagvl gxvrubtgakpbulgmragfvzbrvogvl gzrxkzksagpszt?ggOubgsaglkb
puvz,g.tgbmuguhvfwougkpgakgxzuvbgvgfvabuz,gbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmuzugra
akfubmrlxgslovqpso,gunulgvxvrlabgvlguluft,gvl gbmvbgbmugikffklgikliuzl
ksxmbglkbgbkgzuesrzugvoogbmrlxagkpgvoogful,gvxvrlabgwzrnvbugrlbuzuab:

gggggggggg“Fvlulbugfufkzrv,gubrvfgrlg raar rkgws.orikzsf
ggggggggggpku uzsf,gwzrnvbrgyszra:”

gggggggggg[“Bmugfufkztgkpgwzrnvbugzrxmbgzufvrlrlxgunulgvfr 
ggggggggggws.orig raaularklaj”--Ornt,ghhnjg18j]

gggggggggggggg“Ubglsoovgwkbulbrvgnrzua
gggggggggggggggWzvuabvl r,glugesr gwuiiubgvfrisa,gmv.ub;”

ggggg[“Lkgwkquzgklguvzbmgivlgavlibrklgbzuvimuztgvxvrlabgvgpzrul j”
gggggg--Knr ,g ugWklbk,grjg7,g37j]

vl gbmvbgvoogbmrlxagvzuglkbgovqpsogbkgvlgmkluabgfvlgpkzgbmugauznriugkp
mragwzrliu,gbmugovqa,gkzgbmugxuluzvogesvzzuo:

gggggggggg“Lklgulrfgwvbzrvgwzvuabvbgkflr.sagkpprirrajjjj
ggggggggggubgrwargikl sirbgwrkagmv.uzugirnuagrlgwvzulbuaj”

ggggg[“Bmug sbtgbkgklu’agikslbztg kuaglkbgaswuzau ugvoogkbmuzg sbruaj
gggggBmugikslbztgrbauopgzuesrzuagbmvbgrbagirbrdulagamkso gvibgwrksaot
gggggbkqvz gbmurzgwvzulbaj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrrjg23j]

Bragvlgrlabzsibrklgwzkwuzgpkzgbmugbrfugqmuzurlgqugornu:gqugluu glkb
mvz ulgkszgikszvxugqrbmgbmuaugvzfagkpgabuuo;g‘bragulksxmgbmvbgksz
amkso uzagvzugrlszu gbkgbmuf:g‘bragulksxmgbkg rwgkszgwulagrlgrlcgqrbmksb
 rwwrlxgbmufgrlg.okk jggRpgrbg.ugxzvl uszgkpgikszvxu,gvl gbmuguppuibgkpgv
zvzugvl garlxsovzgnrzbsu,gbkgiklbuflgpzrul amrw,gwzrnvbugk.orxvbrkla,gv
fvl’agqkz gvl gzuovbrklamrw,gpkzgbmugikffklgxkk gvl gk.u ruliugbkgbmu
fvxrabzvbu,g‘bragiuzbvrlotgaspprirulbgbkguhisaugsa,gbmvbg‘bragvgxzvl usz
bmvbgivlgmvnuglkgwoviugrlgbmugxzvl uszgkpgUwvfrlkl va’gikszvxuj

Rgv.kfrlvbugbmkaugfv guhmkzbvbrklagkpgbmragkbmuzg raikfwkau gakso,

gggggggggggggg“ sfgbuovgfrivlb,glklgnkagwrubvbragrfvxk
gggggggggggggggSoov,gluigv nuzavgiklawuibrgpzklbugwvzulbua
gggggggggggggggIkffknuvlb;gnsobsagxov rkgbsz.vbugnuzul kaj”

ggggg[“Qmrougaqkz agxorbbuz,goubglkgr uvgkpgwrubt,glkzgbmugpviugunulgkpgv
gggggpvbmuzgwzuaulbu gbkgtks,gfknugtks:gfsbrovbugqrbmgtkszgaqkz gbmkau
gggggnuluzv.ougpuvbszuag“--Osivl,gnrrjg320j]

Oubgsag uwzrnugqricu ,g.okk t,gvl gbzuvimuzksaglvbszuagkpgasimgvgwzubuliu
kpgzuvakl:goubgsagaubgvar ugbmragxsrobtgvl guhbzvnvxvlbgysabriu,gvl 
abricgbkgfkzugmsfvlgrfrbvbrklajggMkqgxzuvbgbmrlxagivlgbrfugvl guhvfwou
 k!ggRlgvlgulikslbuzgkpgbmugirnrogqvzgvxvrlabgIrllv,gklugkpgWkfwut’a
ako ruzagmvnrlxgslvqvzuagcroou gmrag.zkbmuz,gqmkgqvagkpgbmugiklbzvzt
wvzbt,gmugrffu rvbuotgpkzgamvfugvl gakzzkqgcroou gmrfauop:gvl gakfugtuvza
vpbuz,grlgvlkbmuzgirnrogqvzgkpgbmugavfugwukwou,gvgako ruzg ufvl u gv
zuqvz gkpgmragkppriuzgpkzgmvnrlxgcroou gmrag.zkbmuzj

Vgfvlg.sbgroogwzknuagbmugmklkszgvl g.uvsbtgkpgvlgvibrklg.tgrbagsbrorbt:
vl gnuztguzzkluksaotgiklios uagbmvbgunuztgklugragk.orxu gbkgrb,gvl gbmvb
rbg.uikfuagunuztgklugbkg kgrb,grpgrbg.ugkpgsbrorbt:

ggggggggggggggg“Kflrvglklgwvzrbuzgzuzsfgaslbgkflr.sagvwbvj”


ggggggggggggggg[“Voogbmrlxagvzuglkbguesvootgprbgpkzgvoogfulj”
gggggggggggggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg9,g7j]

Oubgsagbvcugbmvbgqmrimgragfkabgluiuaavztgvl gwzkprbv.ougpkzgmsfvl
akirubt;grbgqroog.ugfvzzrvxu;gvl gtubgbmugikslirogkpgbmugavrlbagprl gbmu
iklbzvztgfsimg.ubbuz,guhios rlxgpzkfgrbgbmugfkabgnuluzv.ougnkivbrklgkp
fvl:gvagqug uarxlgbmkaugmkzauagpkzgabvoorklagkpgqmrimgqugmvnugbmugouvab
uabuufj




IMVWBUZgRR

KPgZUWULBVLIU

Kbmuzagpkzfgfvl;gRgklotgzuwkzbgmrf:gvl gzuwzuaulbgvgwvzbrisovzgklu,groo
pvamrklu gulksxm,gvl gqmkf,grpgRgmv gbkgfk uogmrfgvluq,gRgamkso 
iuzbvrlotgfvcugakfubmrlxguoaugbmvlgqmvbgmugrag.sbgbmvb’agwvabgzuivoorlxj
Lkq,gbmksxmgbmugpuvbszuagkpgftgwribszugvobuzgvl gimvlxu,g‘braglkb,
mkqunuz,gslorcu:gbmugqkzo gubuzlvootgbszlagzksl ;gvoogbmrlxagbmuzurlgvzu
rliuaavlbotgfknrlx,gbmuguvzbm,gbmugzkicagkpgIvsivasa,gvl gbmugwtzvfr agkp
Uxtwb,g.kbmg.tgbmugws.origfkbrklgvl gbmurzgkqljggUnulgiklabvlitgrbauopgra
lkgkbmuzg.sbgvgaokquzgvl gfkzugovlxsramrlxgfkbrkljggRgivllkbgprhgft
k.yuib;g‘bragvoqvtagbkbbuzrlxgvl gzuuorlxg.tgvglvbszvogxr  rluaa;gRgbvcu
rbgvagrbgragvbgbmugrlabvlbgRgiklar uzgrb;gRg kglkbgwvrlbgrbag.urlx,gR
wvrlbgrbagwvaavxu;glkbgvgwvaarlxgpzkfgklugvxugbkgvlkbmuz,gkz,gvagbmu
wukwougavt,gpzkfgaunulgbkgaunulgtuvza,g.sbgpzkfg vtgbkg vt,gpzkfgfrlsbu
bkgfrlsbu,gRgfsabgviikffk vbugftgmrabkztgbkgbmugmksz:gRgfvtgwzuaulbot
imvlxu,glkbgklotg.tgpkzbslu,g.sbgvoakg.tgrlbulbrkljgg‘Bragvgikslbuzwvzb
kpgnvzrksagvl gimvlxuv.ougviir ulba,gvl gkpgrzzuakosbugrfvxrlvbrkla,gvl ,
vagrbgpvooagksb,gakfubrfuagiklbzvzt:gqmubmuzgrbg.ugbmvbgRgvfgbmulgvlkbmuz
auop,gkzgbmvbgRgbvcugas.yuibag.tgkbmuzgirzisfabvliuagvl giklar uzvbrkla:
akgrbgragbmvbgRgfvtgwuzv nulbszugiklbzv ribgftauop,g.sb,gvag ufv uagavr ,
Rglunuzgiklbzv ribgbmugbzsbmjggIkso gftgaksogkliugbvcugpkkbrlx,gRgqkso 
lkbguaavtg.sbgzuakonu:g.sbgrbgragvoqvtagouvzlrlxgvl gfvcrlxgbzrvoj

Rgwzkwkaugvgorpugkz rlvztgvl gqrbmksbgosabzu:g‘bragvoogklu;gvoogfkzvo
wmrokakwmtgfvtgvagquoog.ugvwworu gbkgvgikffklgvl gwzrnvbugorpu,gvagbkgklu
kpgzrimuzgikfwkarbrkl:gunuztgfvlgivzzruagbmugulbrzugpkzfgkpgmsfvl
ikl rbrkljggVsbmkzagikffslrivbugbmufauonuagbkgbmugwukwoug.tgakfuguawuirvo
vl guhbzrlarigfvzc;gR,gbmugprzabgkpgvlt,g.tgftgslrnuzavog.urlx;gvagFrimuo
 ugFklbvrxlu,glkbgvagvgxzvffvzrvl,gvgwkub,gkzgvgovqtuzjggRpgbmugqkzo 
prl gpvsobgbmvbgRgawuvcgbkkgfsimgkpgftauop,gRgprl gpvsobgbmvbgbmutg kglkb
akgfsimgvagbmrlcgkpgbmufauonuajgg.sbgragrbgzuvaklgbmvb,g.urlxgak
wvzbrisovzgrlgftgqvtgkpgornrlx,gRgamkso gwzubul gbkgzuikfful gftauopgbk
bmugws.origclkqou xu?ggVl gragrbgvoakgzuvaklgbmvbgRgamkso gwzk siugbkgbmu
qkzo ,gqmuzugvzbgvl gmvl orlxgmvnugakgfsimgizu rbgvl gvsbmkzrbt,gizs u
vl garfwouguppuibagkpglvbszu,gvl gkpgvgquvcglvbszugbkg.kkb?ggRagrbglkbgbk
.sro gvgqvoogqrbmksbgabklugkzg.zric,gkzgakfugasimgbmrlx,gbkgqzrbug.kkca
qrbmksbgouvzlrlxgvl gqrbmksbgvzb?ggBmugpvliruagkpgfsarigvzugivzzru gklg.t
vzb;gfrlug.tgimvliujggRgmvnugbmra,gvbgouvab,gviikz rlxgbkg rairworlu,
bmvbglunuzgvltgfvlgbzuvbu gkpgvgas.yuibgmug.ubbuzgsl uzabkk gvl gcluq
bmvlgRgqmvbgRgmvnugsl uzbvcul,gvl gbmvbgrlgbmragRgvfgbmugfkab
sl uzabvl rlxgfvlgvornu:gauikl ot,gbmvbglunuzgvltgfvlgwulubzvbu gpvzbmuz
rlbkgmragfvbbuz,glkzg.ubbuzgvl gfkzug rabrlibotgarpbu gbmugwvzbagvl 
auesuliuagkpgrb,glkzgunuzgfkzuguhvibotgvl gpsootgvzzrnu gvbgbmugul gmu
wzkwkau gbkgmrfauopjggBkgwuzpuibgrb,gRgluu g.zrlxglkbmrlxg.sbgpr uorbtgbk
bmugqkzc;gvl gbmvbgragbmuzu,gvl gbmugfkabgwszugvl garliuzugbmvbgra
vltqmuzugbkg.ugpksl jggRgawuvcgbzsbm,glkbgakgfsimgvagRgqkso ,g.sbgvagfsim
vagRg vzu;gvl gRg vzugvgorbbougbmugfkzu,gvagRgxzkqgko uz;gpkz,gfubmrlca,
isabkfgvookqagbkgvxugfkzugor.uzbtgkpgwzvbrlx,gvl gfkzugrl raizubrklgkp
bvocrlxgkpgvgfvl’agauopjggBmvbgivllkbgpvoogksbgmuzu,gqmrimgRgkpbulgauu
uoauqmuzu,gbmvbgbmugqkzcgvl gbmugvzbrpriuzgiklbzv ribgklugvlkbmuz:
“Ivlgvgfvlgkpgasimgak.uzgiklnuzavbrklgmvnugqzrbbulgakgpkkoramgvg.kkc?”
gKzg“ kgakgouvzlu gqzrbrlxagwzkiuu gpzkfgvgfvlgkpgakgquvcgiklnuzavbrkl?”
gMugqmkgbvocagvbgvgnuztgkz rlvztgzvbu,gvl gqzrbuagzvzugfvbbuz,g‘bragbkgavt
bmvbgmragivwvirbtgrag.kzzkqu gvl glkbgmragkqljggVgouvzlu gfvlgraglkb
ouvzlu grlgvoogbmrlxa:g.sbgvgaspprirulbgfvlgragaspprirulbgbmzksxmksb,
unulgbkgrxlkzvliugrbauop;gmuzugftg.kkcgvl gRgxkgmvl grlgmvl gbkxubmuzj
Uoauqmuzugfulgfvtgikfful gkzgiulaszugbmugqkzc,gqrbmksbgzupuzuliugbkgbmu
qkzcfvl;gmuzugbmutgivllkb:gqmkgbksimuagbmugklu,gbksimuagbmugkbmuzjggMu
qmkgamvoogys xugkpgrbgqrbmksbgclkqrlxgmrf,gqroogfkzugqzklxgmrfauopgbmvl
fu;gmugqmkg kuagclkqgmrf,gxrnuagfugvoogbmugavbrapvibrklgRg uarzujggR
amvoog.ugmvwwtg.utkl gftg uauzb,grpgRgivlgk.bvrlgklotgbmsagfsimgpzkfgbmu
ws.origvwwzk.vbrkl,gvagbkgfvcugfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgwuziurnugbmvbgRgqva
ivwv.ougkpgwzkprbrlxg.tgclkqou xu,gmv gRgmv grb;gvl gbmvbgRg uauznu gbk
mvnug.uulgvaarabu g.tgvg.ubbuzgfufkztj

.ugwouvau gmuzugbkguhisaugqmvbgRgkpbulgzuwuvb,gbmvbgRgnuztgzvzuotgzuwulb,
vl gbmvbgftgiklairuliugragavbrapru gqrbmgrbauop,glkbgvagbmugiklairuliugkp
vlgvlxuo,gkzgbmvbgkpgvgmkzau,g.sbgvagbmugiklairuliugkpgvgfvl;gvoqvta
v  rlxgbmragiovsau,glkbgklugkpgiuzufklt,g.sbgvgbzsugvl gzuvogas.fraarkl,
bmvbgRgawuvcgrlesrzrlxgvl g ks.brlx,gwszuotgvl garfwotgzupuzzrlxgftauop
bkgbmugikffklgvl gviiuwbu g.uorupagpkzgbmugzuakosbrkljggRg kglkbgbuvim;gR
klotgzuovbuj

Bmuzugraglkgnriugbmvbgragv.akosbuotgvgnriugqmrimg kuaglkbgkppul ,gvl 
bmvbgvgaksl gys xfulbg kuaglkbgviisau;gpkzgbmuzugragrlgrbgakgfvlrpuabgv
 upkzfrbtgvl grliklnulruliu,gbmvbgwuzv nulbszugbmutgvzugrlgbmugzrxmbgqmk
avtgbmvbgrbgragimrupotg.uxkbbulg.tgabswr rbtgvl grxlkzvliu:gakgmvz gragrb
bkgrfvxrlugbmvbgvgfvlgivlgclkqgqrbmksbgv.mkzzrlxgrbjggFvoriugasicagswgbmu
xzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgrbagkqlgnulkf,gvl gwkraklagrbauopjggNriugouvnua
zuwulbvliugrlgbmugakso,gorcugvlgsoiuzgrlgbmugpouam,gqmrimgragvoqvta
aizvbimrlxgvl goviuzvbrlxgrbauop:gpkzgzuvaklguppviuagvoogkbmuzgxzrupgvl 
akzzkqa,g.sbgrbg.uxubagbmvbgkpgzuwulbvliu,gqmrimgragakgfsimgbmugfkzu
xzrunksa,g.tgzuvaklgrbgawzrlxagqrbmrl,gvagbmugiko gvl gmuvbgkpgpunuzagvzu
fkzugamvzwgbmvlgbmkaugbmvbgklotgabzrcugswklgbmugksbqvz gacrljggRgmko gpkz
nriuag(.sbgunuztgklugviikz rlxgbkgrbagwzkwkzbrkl),glkbgklotgbmkaugqmrim
zuvaklgvl glvbszugikl ufl,g.sbgbmkaugvoakgqmrimgbmugkwrlrklgkpgful,
bmksxmgpvoaugvl guzzkluksa,gmvnugfv ugasim,grpgvsbmkzrau g.tgovqgvl 
isabkfj

Bmuzugragorcuqrauglkgnrzbsugqmrimg kuaglkbgzuykriugvgquoo- uaiul u 
lvbszu:gbmuzugragvgcrl gkp,gRgclkqglkbgqmvb,giklxzvbsovbrklgrlgquoo- krlx
bmvbgxrnuagsagvlgrlqvz gavbrapvibrkl,gvl gvgxuluzksag.ko luaagbmvb
viikfwvlruagvgxkk giklairuliu:gvgaksog vzrlxotgnrirksagfvt,gwuzv nulbszu,
vzfgrbauopgqrbmgauiszrbt,g.sbgrbgivllkbgaswwotgrbauopgqrbmgbmra
ikfwoviulitgvl gavbrapvibrkljgg‘Braglkgorbbougavbrapvibrklgbkgpuuogv
fvl’agauopgwzuauznu gpzkfgbmugiklbvxrklgkpgakg uwzvnu gvlgvxu,gvl gbkgavt
bkgmrfauop:g“Qmkunuzgikso gwulubzvbugrlbkgftgaksogqkso glkbgbmuzugprl gfu
xsrobtgurbmuzgkpgbmugvpporibrklgkzgzsrlgkpgvltgklu,gkzgkpgzunulxugkz
ulnt,gkzgvltgkppuliugvxvrlabgbmugws.origovqa,gkzgkpgrllknvbrklgkz
 rabsz.vliu,gkzgpvroszugkpgftgqkz ;gvl gbmksxmgbmugoriuliugkpgbmugbrfu
wuzfrbagvl gbuvimuagunuztgklugakgbkg k,gtubgmvnugRglkbgwosl uzu gvlt
Pzulimfvl’agxkk a,gkzgbvculgmragfklut,gvl gmvnugornu gswklgqmvbgragft
kql,grlgqvzgvagquoogvagrlgwuviu;glurbmuzgmvnugRgaubgvltgfvlgbkgqkzc
qrbmksbgwvtrlxgmrfgmragmrzuj”ggBmuaugbuabrfklruagkpgvgxkk giklairuliu
wouvau,gvl gbmraglvbszvogzuykrirlxgragnuztg.uluprirvogbkgsa,gvl gbmugklot
zuqvz gbmvbgqugivlglunuzgpvrogkpj

Bkgxzksl gbmugzuikfwulaugkpgnrzbsksagvibrklagswklgbmugvwwzk.vbrklgkp
kbmuzagragbkkgsliuzbvrlgvl gslavpugvgpksl vbrkl,guawuirvootgrlgakgikzzswb
vl grxlkzvlbgvlgvxugvagbmra,gqmuzurlgbmugxkk gkwrlrklgkpgbmugnsoxvzgra
rlyszrksa:gswklgqmkfg kgtksgzuotgbkgamkqgtksgqmvbgragzuikfful v.ou?ggXk 
 upul gfugpzkfg.urlxgvlgmkluabgfvl,gviikz rlxgbkgbmug uaizrwbrklagkp
mklkszgRg vrotgauugunuztgklugfvcugkpgmrfauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Esvugpsuzvlbgnrbrv,gfkzuagaslbj”

ggggg[“Qmvbg.upkzugmv g.uulgnriuagvzuglkqgfvlluzaj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g39j]

Akfugkpgftgpzrul agmvnugvbgbrfuagaimkkou gvl gaiko u gfugqrbmgxzuvb
arliuzrbtgvl gwovrlluaa,gurbmuzgkpgbmurzgkqlgnkoslbvztgfkbrkl,gkzg.tgfu
ulbzuvbu gbkgrbgvagbkgvlgkppriu,gqmrimgbkgvgquoo-ikfwkau gaksogaszwvaaua
lkbgklotgrlgsbrorbt,g.sbgrlgcrl luaa,gvoogkbmuzgkppriuagkpgpzrul amrw:gR
mvnugvoqvtagzuiurnu gbmufgqrbmgbmugfkabgkwulgvzfa,g.kbmgkpgikszbuatgvl 
viclkqou xfulb;g.sbgbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gRgmvnugkpbulgpksl gakgfsimgpvoau
fuvaszu,g.kbmgrlgbmurzgzuwzkvimuagvl gwzvraua,gbmvbgRgmv glkbg klugfsim
vfraa,gzvbmuzgbkgmvnug klugroo,gbmvlgbkgmvnug klugquoogviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
lkbrklajggQu,gqmkgornugwzrnvbugornua,glkbguhwkau gbkgvltgkbmuzgnruqgbmvl
kszgkql,gksxmbgimrupotgbkgmvnugaubbou gvgwvbbuzlgqrbmrlgkszauonuag.t
qmrimgbkgbztgkszgvibrkla:gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmvb,gakfubrfuagbkgulikszvxu
vl gakfubrfuagbkgikzzuibgkszauonuajggRgmvnugftgovqagvl gftgys rivbszugbk
ys xugkpgftauop,gvl gvwwotgftauopgfkzugbkgbmuaugbmvlgbkgvltgkbmuzgzsoua:
Rg k,grl uu ,gzuabzvrlgftgvibrklagviikz rlxgbkgkbmuza;g.sbguhbul gbmuf
lkbg.tgvltgkbmuzgzsougbmvlgftgkqljggTksgtkszauopgklotgclkqgrpgtksgvzu
ikqvz otgvl gizsuo,goktvogvl g unksb:gkbmuzagauugtksglkb,gvl gklotgxsuaa
vbgtksg.tgsliuzbvrlgiklyuibszua,gvl g kglkbgakgfsimgauugtkszglvbszugva
tkszgvzb;gzuotglkbgbmuzupkzugswklgbmurzgkwrlrkla,g.sbgabricgbkgtkszgkql:

ggggg“Bskgbr.rgys rirkguabgsbul sfjjjjgNrzbsbragubgnrbrkzsfgxzvnugrwarsa
gggggiklairulbrvugwkl saguab:gesvgas.ovbv,gyviulbgkflrvj”

ggggg[“Bmksgfsabgufwoktgbmtgkqlgys xfulbgswklgbmtauop;gxzuvbgragbmu
gggggqurxmbgkpgbmtgkqlgiklairuliugrlgbmug raiknuztgkpgnrzbsuagvl gnriua:
gggggqmrimgbvculgvqvt,gvoogbmrlxagvzugokabj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugLvbjg ur,grrrjgg35;gBsaijgEsvuaj,grjg25j]

.sbgbmugavtrlxgbmvbgzuwulbvliugrffu rvbuotgpkookqagbmugarlgauufaglkbgbk
mvnugzuawuibgbkgarlgrlgrbagmrxmguabvbu,gqmrimgragok xu grlgsagvagrlgrba
kqlgwzkwuzgmv.rbvbrkljggKlugfvtg rakqlgvl gzubzvibgbmugnriuagbmvb
aszwzraugsa,gvl gbkgqmrimgqugvzugmszzru g.tgwvaarkla;g.sbgbmkaugqmrimg.t
vgoklxgmv.rbgvzugzkkbu grlgvgabzklxgvl gnrxkzksagqroogvzuglkbgas.yuibgbk
iklbzv ribrkljggZuwulbvliugraglkgkbmuzg.sbgvgzuivlbrlxgkpgbmugqroogvl gvl
kwwkarbrklgbkgkszgpvlirua,gqmrimgouv gsagqmrimgqvtgbmutgwouvaujggRbgfvcua
bmragwuzaklg rakqlgmragpkzfuzgnrzbsugvl giklbrlulit:

ggggggggg“Esvugfulaguabgmk ru,giszguv ufglklgwsuzkgpvrb?
ggggggggggNuogiszgmragvlrfragrlikosfuaglklgzu uslbgxulvu?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgftgfrl gra,gqmtgqvagrbglkbgbmugavfu,gqmulgRgqvagvg.kt?ggkz
gggggqmtg kglkbgbmugimuucagzubszlgbkgbmuaugpuuorlxa?”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,gnjg10,g7j]

‘Bragvlguhvibgorpugbmvbgfvrlbvrlagrbauopgrlg sugkz uzgrlgwzrnvbujggUnuzt
klugfvtgysxxougmragwvzb,gvl gzuwzuaulbgvlgmkluabgfvlgswklgbmugabvxu:g.sb
qrbmrl,gvl grlgmragkqlg.kakf,gqmuzugvoogfvtg kgvagbmutgorab,gqmuzugvoogra
ikliuvou ,gbkg.ugzuxsovz,gbmuzu’agbmugwkrlbjggBmugluhbg uxzuugragbkg.ugak
rlgmragmksau,gvl grlgmragkz rlvztgvibrkla,gpkzgqmrimgqugvzugviikslbv.ou
bkglklu,gvl gqmuzugbmuzugraglkgabs tglkzgvzbrpriujggVl gbmuzupkzug.rva,
aubbrlxgpkzbmgbmuguhiuooulbgabvbugkpgvgwzrnvbugpvfrot,gavta:g“kpgqmrimgv
bmugfvabuzgragbmugavfugqrbmrl,g.tgmragkqlgnrzbsugvl gbufwuz,gbmvbgmugra
v.zkv ,gpkzgpuvzgkpgbmugovqagvl gzuwkzbgkpgfulj”ggVl grbgqvagvgqkzbmt
avtrlxgkpgYsorsag zsasa,gbkgbmugfvaklagqmkgkppuzu gmrf,gpkzgbmzuu
bmksavl gizkqla,gbkgwsbgmragmksaugrlgasimgvgwkabszugbmvbgmraglurxm.ksza
amkso glkgoklxuzgmvnugbmugavfugrlawuibrklgrlbkgrbgvag.upkzu;g“Rgqroogxrnu
tks,”gavr gmu,g“arhgbmksavl gbkgfvcugrbgakgbmvbgunuzt.k tgfvtgauugrlbk
unuztgzkkfj”gg‘Bragmklkszv.otgzuikz u gkpgVxuarovsa,gbmvbgmugsau grlgmra
ykszlutagvoqvtagbkgbvcugswgmragok xrlxagrlgbufwoua,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgbmu
wukwougvl gbmugxk agbmufauonuagfrxmbgwztgrlbkgmragfkabgwzrnvbugvibrklaj
Asimgvgklugmvag.uulgvgfrzviougbkgbmugqkzo ,grlgqmkfglurbmuzgmragqrpuglkz
auznvlbgmvagunuzgauulgvltbmrlxgakgfsimgvagzufvzcv.ou;gpuqgfulgmvnug.uul
v frzu g.tgbmurzgkqlg kfuabria;glkgklugqvagunuzgvgwzkwmub,glkbgfuzuotgrl
mragkqlgmksau,g.sbgrlgmragkqlgikslbzt,gavtagbmuguhwuzruliugkpgmrabkzrua:
--[Lkgfvlgragvgmuzkgbkgmragnvoub- u-imvf.zu,gavr gFvzamvogIvbrlvb]--‘bra
bmugavfugrlgbmrlxagkpglksxmb,gvl grlgbmragokqguhvfwougbmugrfvxugkpgv
xzuvbuzgragbkg.ugauuljggRlgftgikslbztgkpgXvaiklt,gbmutgokkcgswklgrbgvagv
 zkoouztgbkgauugfugrlgwzrlb;gbmugpszbmuzgkppgRgvfgzuv gpzkfgftgkqlgmkfu,
bmug.ubbuzgRgvfguabuufu jggRgwszimvaugwzrlbuzagrlgXsrullu;guoauqmuzugbmut
wszimvaugfujggSwklgbmragrbgragbmvbgbmutgovtgbmurzgpksl vbrklgqmkgikliuvo
bmufauonuagwzuaulbgvl gornrlx,gbkgk.bvrlgvglvfugqmulgbmutgvzug uv gvl 
v.aulbjggRgmv gzvbmuzgmvnugvgxzuvbg uvogouaagrlgmvl ,gvl g kglkbguhwkau
ftauopgbkgbmugqkzo gswklgvltgkbmuzgviikslbgbmvlgftgwzuaulbgamvzu;gqmulgR
ouvnugrbgRgesrbgbmugzuabjggAuugbmragpslibrklvztgqmkfgbmugwukwouguaikzbgrl
abvbu,gqrbmgqkl uzgvl gvwwovsau,gbkgmragnuztg kkz;gmugwsbagkppgbmu
wvxuvlbgqrbmgmragzk.u,gvl gpvooagakgfsimgbmugokquzg.tgmkqgfsimgmugqva
mrxmuzguhvobu :grlgmrfauopgqrbmrl,gvoogragbsfsobgvl g uxzv u jggVl 
bmksxmgvoogamkso g.ugzuxsovzgbmuzu,grbgqroogzuesrzugvgnrnr gvl 
quoo-imkaulgys xfulbgbkgwuziurnugrbgrlgbmuaugokqgvl gwzrnvbugvibrkla;gbk
qmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,gbmvbgkz uzgragvg soo,gakf.zugnrzbsujggBkgulbuzgv
.zuvim,gikl sibgvlguf.vaat,gxknuzlgvgwukwou,gvzugvibrklagkpgzulkql;gbk
zuwzumul ,govsxm,gauoo,gwvt,goknu,gmvbu,gvl gxulbotgvl gysabotgiklnuzau
qrbmgvgfvl’agkqlgpvfrotgvl gqrbmgmrfauop;glkbgbkgzuovh,glkbgbkgxrnugv
fvl’agauopgbmugoru,gragfkzugzvzugvl gmvz ,gvl gouaagzufvzcv.oujgg.tgqmrim
fuvla,gzubrzu gornua,gqmvbunuzgragavr gbkgbmugiklbzvzt,gsl uzxkg sbruagkp
vagxzuvbgkzgxzuvbuzg rpprisobtgbmvlgbmugkbmuzag k;gvl gwzrnvbugful,gavta
Vzrabkbou,’gauznugnrzbsugfkzugwvrlpsootgvl gmrxmotgbmvlgbmkaugrl
vsbmkzrbtg k:gqugwzuwvzugkszauonuagpkzgufrlulbgkiivarkla,gfkzugksbgkp
xokztgbmvlgiklairuliujggBmugamkzbuabgqvtgbkgvzzrnugvbgxokzt,gqkso g.ugbk
 kgbmvbgpkzgiklairuliugqmrimgqug kgpkzgxokzt:gvl gbmugnrzbsugkpgVouhvl uz
vwwuvzagbkgfugkpgfsimgouaagnrxkszgrlgmragxzuvbgbmuvbzu,gbmvlgbmvbgkp
Akizvbuagrlgmragfuvlgvl gk.aiszugufwoktfulbjggRgivlguvarotgikliurnu
AkizvbuagrlgbmugwoviugkpgVouhvl uz,g.sbgVouhvl uzgrlgbmvbgkpgAkizvbua,gR
ivllkbjggQmkgamvoogvacgbmugklugqmvbgmugivlg k,gmugqroogvlaquz,g“As. su
bmugqkzo ”:gvl gqmkgamvoogwsbgbmugavfugesuabrklgbkgbmugkbmuz,gmugqroo
avt,g“Ivzztgklgmsfvlgorpugiklpkzfv.otgqrbmgrbaglvbszvogikl rbrkl”;gvgfsim
fkzugxuluzvo,gqurxmbt,gvl gouxrbrfvbugairuliugbmvlgbmugkbmuzj--[Fklbvrxlu
v  u gmuzu,g“Bkg kgpkzgbmugqkzo gbmvbgpkzgqmrimgmugivfugrlbkgbmugqkzo ,”
g.sbgmugvpbuzqvz aguzvau gbmuaugqkz agpzkfgbmugfvlsaizrwbj--Lvrxuklj]

Bmugnrzbsugkpgbmugaksog kuaglkbgiklarabgrlgpotrlxgmrxm,g.sbgrlgqvocrlx
kz uzot;grbagxzvl uszg kuaglkbguhuziraugrbauopgrlgxzvl usz,g.sbgrl
fu rkizrbtjggVagbmutgqmkgys xugvl gbztgsagqrbmrl,gfvcuglkgxzuvbgviikslb
kpgbmugosabzugkpgkszgws.origvibrkla,gvl gauugbmutgvzugklotgabzuvcagvl 
zvtagkpgiouvzgqvbuzgawzrlxrlxgpzkfgvgaorftgvl gfs  tg.kbbkfgak,gorcuqrau,
bmutgqmkgys xugkpgsag.tgbmragxvoovlbgksbqvz gvwwuvzvliu,grlgorcugfvlluz
iklios ugkpgkszgrlbuzlvogiklabrbsbrkl;gvl givllkbgikswougikffkl
pvisobrua,gvl gorcugbmurzgkql,gqrbmgbmugkbmuzgpvisobruagbmvbgvabklram
bmuf,gvl gvzugakgpvzgksbgkpgbmurzgarxmbjggBmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgqugxrnu
asimgavnvxugpkzfagbkg ufkla:gvl gqmkg kuaglkbgxrnugBvfuzovlugxzuvb
utu.zkqa,gqr uglkabzroa,gvg zuv psognravxu,gvl gvgwzk rxrksagabvbszu,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgmugmvagikliurnu g.tgbmugzuwkzbgkpgmraglvfu?
Mv gvltgklugpkzfuzotg.zksxmbgfugbkgUzvafsa,gRgamkso gmvz otgmvnug.uorunu 
.sbgbmvbgvoogqvagv vxugvl gvwkbmuxfgmugawkcugbkgmragfvlgkzgmragmkabuaaj
Qugfsimgfkzugvwbotgrfvxrlugvlgvzbravlgswklgmragiokau-abkko,gkzgswklgmra
qrpu,gbmvlgvgxzuvbgwzuar ulbgnuluzv.oug.tgmragwkzbgvl gaspprirulit:gqu
pvlitgbmvbgbmut,gpzkfgbmurzgmrxmgbzr.slvoa,gqrooglkbgv.vaugbmufauonuagak
fsimgvagbkgornujggVagnrirksagaksoagvzugkpbulgrlirbu g.tgakfugpkzurxl
rfwsoaugbkg kgquoo,gakgvzugnrzbsksagaksoagbkg kgroo;gbmutgvzugbmuzupkzu
bkg.ugys xu g.tgbmurzgaubbou gabvbu,gqmulgbmutgvzugvbgmkfu,gqmulunuzgbmvb
fvtg.u;gvl ,gvbgvoogunulba,gqmulgbmutgvzugluvzuzgzuwkau,gvl grlgbmurz
lvbrnugabvbrklj

Lvbszvogrliorlvbrklagvzugfsimgvaarabu gvl gpkzbrpru g.tgu sivbrkl;g.sb
bmutgauo kfgvobuzgvl gknuzikfugbmurzgrlabrbsbrkl:gvgbmksavl glvbszuagkp
ftgbrfugmvnuguaivwu gbkqvz agnrzbsugkzgnriu,gbmzksxmgvgesrbugiklbzvzt
 rairworlu:

gggggggggggggg“Arigs.r,g uasubvugaronra,grlgivziuzugiovsavu
gggggggggggggggFvlasunuzugpuzh,gubgnsobsagwkasuzugfrlviua,
gggggggggggggggVbesugmkfrlufg r riuzugwvbr,gargbkzzr vgwvznsa
gggggggggggggggNulrbgrlgkzvgizskz,gzu uslbgzv.ruaesugpkzkzesu,
gggggggggggggggV fklrbvuesugbsfulbgxsabvbkgavlxsrlugpvsiua
gggggggggggggggPuznub,gubgvgbzuwr kgnrhgv.abrlubgrzvgfvxrabzk;”

ggggg[“Akgavnvxug.uvaba,gqmulgamsbgswgrlgivxuagvl gxzkqlgslviisabkfu gbk
gggggbmugqkk a,gmvnug.uikfugbvfu,gvl gmvnugovr gvar ugbmurzgpruziugokkca,
gggggvl gas.frbgbkgbmugzsougkpgfvl;grpgvxvrlgvgaorxmbgbvabugkpg.okk 
gggggikfuagrlbkgbmurzgfksbma,gbmurzgzvxugvl gpsztgzubszl,gbmurzgyvqagvzu
ggggguzuibu g.tgbmrzabgkpg.okk ,gvl gbmurzgvlxuzgaivziuotgv.abvrlagpzkf
gggggbmurzgbzuf.orlxgfvabuzaj”--Osivl,grnjg237j]

bmuaugkzrxrlvogesvorbruagvzuglkbgbkg.ugzkkbu gksb;gbmutgfvtg.ugiknuzu 
vl gikliuvou jggBmugOvbrlgbklxsugragvagrbgquzuglvbszvogbkgfu;gR
sl uzabvl grbg.ubbuzgbmvlgPzulim;g.sbgRgmvnuglkbg.uulgsau gbkgawuvcgrb,
lkzgmvz otgbkgqzrbugrb,gbmuaugpkzbtgtuvzajggSlouaagswklguhbzufugvl 
as  ulgufkbrklagqmrimgRgmvnugpvooulgrlbkgbqriugkzgbmzriugrlgftgorpu,gvl 
kliugauurlxgftgpvbmuzgrlgwuzpuibgmuvobmgpvoogswklgfugrlgvgaqkkl,gRgmvnu
voqvtagsbbuzu gpzkfgbmug.kbbkfgkpgftgmuvzbgftgprzabgqkz agrlgOvbrl;
lvbszug uvpulu ,gvl gpkzir.otguhwzuaarlxgrbauop,grlgawrbugkpgakgoklxgv
 raiklbrlsvbrkl;gvl gbmraguhvfwougragavr gkpgfvltgkbmuzaj

Bmutgqmkgrlgftgbrfugmvnugvbbufwbu gbkgikzzuibgbmugfvlluzagkpgbmugqkzo g.t
luqgkwrlrkla,gzupkzfgauufrlxgnriua;g.sbgbmuguaaulbrvognriuagbmutgouvnugva
bmutgquzu,grpgrl uu gbmutg kglkbgvsxfulbgbmuf,gvl gvsxfulbvbrklgra
bmuzurlgbkg.ugpuvzu ;gqug upuzgvoogkbmuzgquoog krlxgswklgbmugviikslbgkp
bmuauguhbuzlvogzupkzfvbrkla,gkpgouaagikabgvl gxzuvbuzgamkq,gvl gbmuzu.t
uhwrvbugxkk gimuvw,gpkzgbmugkbmuzglvbszvo,giklas.abvlbrvo,gvl grlbuabrlu
nriuajggOkkcgvgorbbougrlbkgkszguhwuzruliu:gbmuzugraglkgfvl,grpgmugorabul
bkgmrfauop,gqmkg kuaglkbgrlgmrfauopg raiknuzgvgwvzbrisovzgvl gxknuzlrlx
pkzfgkpgmragkql,gbmvbgykabouagmragu sivbrkl,gvl gqzuabouagqrbmgbmu
bufwuabgkpgwvaarklagbmvbgvzugiklbzvztgbkgrbjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgauo kfgprl 
ftauopgvxrbvbu gqrbmgaszwzraua;gRgvoqvtagprl gftauopgrlgftgwoviu,gva
muvntgvl gslqruo tg.k ruag k;grpgRgvfglkbgvbgmkfu,gRgvfgvoqvtagluvzgvb
mvl ;gftg raarwvbrklag kglkbgbzvlawkzbgfugnuztgpvz;gbmuzugraglkbmrlx
abzvlxugkzguhbzufugrlgbmugivau;gvl gtubgRgmvnugaksl gvl gnrxkzksagbszlaj

Bmugbzsugikl uflvbrkl,gvl gqmrimgbksimuagbmugikffklgwzvibriugkpgful,gra
bmvbgbmurzgnuztgzubrzufulbgrbauopgragpsoogkpgprobmgvl gikzzswbrkl;gbmu
r uvgkpgbmurzgzupkzfvbrklgikfwkau ,gbmurzgzuwulbvliugaricgvl gpvsobt,
nuztgluvzotgvagfsimgvagbmurzgarljggAkfu,gurbmuzgpzkfgmvnrlxg.uulgorlcu 
bkgnriug.tgvglvbszvogwzkwularklgkzgoklxgwzvibriu,givllkbgauugrba
 upkzfrbtjggKbmuzag(kpgqmrimgiklabrbsbrklgRgvf)g kgrl uu gpuuogbmugqurxmb
kpgnriu,g.sbgbmutgikslbuz.vovliugrbgqrbmgwouvaszu,gkzgakfugkbmuz
kiivarkl;gvl gasppuzgvl goul gbmufauonuagbkgrbgpkzgvgiuzbvrlgwzriu,g.sb
nrirksaotgvl g.vauotjggTubgbmuzugfrxmb,gmvwot,g.ugrfvxrlu gakgnvabgv
 rawzkwkzbrklgkpgfuvaszu,gqmuzugqrbmgysabriugbmugwouvaszugfrxmbguhisau
bmugarl,gvagqugavtgkpgsbrorbt;glkbgklotgrpgviir ulbvogvl gksbgkpgarl,gva
rlgbmupba,g.sbgrlgbmugnuztguhuziraugkpgarl,gkzgrlgbmugulyktfulbgkpgqkful,
qmuzugbmugbufwbvbrklgragnrkoulb,gvl ,g‘bragavr ,gakfubrfuaglkbgbkg.u
knuzikfuj

.urlxgbmugkbmuzg vtgvbgVzfvrxlvi,gklgbmuguabvbugkpgvgcrlafvlgkpgfrlu,gR
bmuzugavqgvgwuvavlbgqmkgqvag.tgunuztgkluglriclvfu gbmugbmrupjggMugbmsa
zuovbu gbmugabkztgkpgmragorpu:gbmvb,g.urlxg.kzlgvg.uxxvz,gvl gprl rlx
bmvbgmugamkso glkbg.ugv.ou,gakgvagbkg.ugiouvzgkpgrl rxuliu,gbkgxubgmra
ornrlxg.tgbmugaquvbgkpgmrag.zkq,gmugzuakonu gbkgbszlgbmrup,gvl g.tgfuvla
kpgmragabzulxbmgkpg.k tgmv guhuzirau gbmragbzv ugvoogbmugbrfugkpgmra
tksbmgrlgxzuvbgauiszrbt;gpkzgmugunuzgfv ugmragmvznuabgvl gnrlbvxugrl
kbmuzgful’agxzksl a,g.sbgvgxzuvbgqvtgkpp,gvl grlgakgxzuvbgesvlbrbrua,
bmvbgrbgqvaglkbgbkg.ugrfvxrlu gklugfvlgikso gmvnugivzzru gvqvtgakgfsimgrl
kluglrxmbgswklgmragamkso uza;gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gmugqvagivzupsoguesvootgbk
 rnr ugvl g rabzr.sbugbmugfraimrupgmug r ,gbmvbgbmugokaagqvagkpgouaa
rfwkzbvliugbkgunuztgwvzbrisovzgfvljggMugraglkqgxzkqlgko ,gvl gzrimgpkzgv
fvlgkpgmragikl rbrkl,gbmvlcagbkgmragbzv u,gqmrimgmugkwulotgiklpuaauagbk
unuztgklujggVl gbkgfvcugmragwuviugqrbmgXk ,gmugavta,gbmvbgmugrag vrot
zuv tg.tgxkk gkppriuagbkgfvcugavbrapvibrklgbkgbmugasiiuaakzagkpgbmkaugmu
mvagzk..u ,gvl grpgmug kglkbgprlramg(pkzgbkg kgrbgvoogvbgkliugmugraglkb
v.ou),gmugqroogbmulgouvnugrbgrlgimvzxugbkgmragmurzagbkgwuzpkzfgbmugzuab,
wzkwkzbrklv.otgbkgbmugqzklxgmugmrfauopgklotgclkqagmugmvag klugbkguvimj
.tgbmrag uaizrwbrkl,gbzsugkzgpvoau,gbmragfvlgokkcagswklgbmupbgvagv
 ramkluabgvibrkl,gvl gmvbuagrb,g.sbgouaagbmvlgwknuzbt,gvl garfwot
zuwulba;g.sbgbkgbmuguhbulbgmugmvagbmsagzuikfwulau gmugzuwulbaglkbjggBmra
raglkbgbmvbgmv.rbgqmrimgrlikzwkzvbuagsagrlbkgnriu,gvl giklpkzfagunulgksz
sl uzabvl rlxgrbauopgbkgrb;glkzgragrbgbmvbgrfwubsksagqmrzoqrl gbmvbg.t
xsabagbzks.ouagvl g.orl agkszgaksoa,gvl gpkzgbmugbrfugwzuirwrbvbuagsa,
ys xfulbgvl gvoo,grlbkgbmugwkquzgkpgnriuj

Rgisabkfvzrotg kgqmvbgRg kgbmkzksxmotgvl gfvcug.sbgklugabuwgkl’b;gRgmvnu
zvzuotgvltgfknufulbgbmvbgmr uagrbauopgvl gabuvoagvqvtgpzkfgftgzuvakl,gvl 
bmvbg kuaglkbgwzkiuu grlgbmugfvbbuzg.tgbmugiklaulbgkpgvoogftgpvisobrua,
qrbmksbg rnrarklgkzgrlbuabrlugau rbrkl;gftgys xfulbgragbkgmvnugvoogbmu
.ovfugkzgvoogbmugwzvrau;gvl gbmug.ovfugrbgkliugmva,grbgmvagvoqvta;gpkz
vofkabgpzkfgftgrlpvlitgrbgmvagunuzg.uulgklu:gbmugavfugrliorlvbrkl,gbmu
avfugbszl,gbmugavfugpkziu;gvl gvagbkgslrnuzavogkwrlrkla,gRgprhu gftauop
pzkfgftgimro mkk grlgbmugwoviugqmuzugRgzuakonu gbkgabricjggBmuzugvzugakfu
arlagbmvbgvzugrfwubsksa,gwzkfwb,gvl gas  ul;goubgsagaubgbmufgvar u:g.sb
rlgbmuaugkbmuzgarlagakgkpbulgzuwuvbu ,g uor.uzvbu ,gvl giklbzrnu ,
qmubmuzgarlagkpgikfwouhrklgkzgarlagkpgwzkpuaarklgvl gnkivbrkl,gRgivllkb
ikliurnugbmvbgbmutgamkso gmvnugakgoklxg.uulgaubbou grlgbmugavfu
zuakosbrkl,gslouaagbmugzuvaklgvl giklairuliugkpgmrfgqmkgmvagbmuf,g.u
iklabvlbgbkgmvnugbmuf;gvl gbmugzuwulbvliugmug.kvabagbkg.ugrlawrzu gqrbm
klgvgas  ul,gragnuztgmvz gpkzgfugbkgrfvxrlugkzgpkzfjggRgpkookqglkbgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgbmugWtbmvxkzuvlgauib,g“bmvbgfulgbvcugswgvgluqgaksogqmulgbmut
zuwvrzgbkgbmugrfvxuagkpgbmugxk agbkgzuiurnugbmurzgkzvioua,”gslouaagmu
fuvlgbmvbgrbgfsabgluu ag.uguhbzrlari,gluq,gvl goulbgpkzgbmugbrfu;gkszgkql
amkqrlxgakgorbbougarxlgkpgwszrprivbrklgvl giouvlluaa,gprbgpkzgasimgvl
kppriuj

Bmutgvibgesrbugiklbzvztgbkgbmugabkrivogwzuiuwba,gqmkg kgrl uu gikffvl gsa
bkgikzzuibgbmugrfwuzpuibrklagvl gnriuagqugclkqgkszauonuagxsrobtgkp,g.sb
pkz.r gsagbmuzupkzugbkg rabsz.gbmugzuwkaugkpgkszgaksoa:gbmuaugfvcugsa
.uorunugbmvbgbmutgmvnugxzuvbgxzrupgvl gzufkzaugqrbmrl:g.sbgkpgvful fulb,
ikzzuibrkl,gkzgrlbuzzswbrkl,gbmutgfvcuglkbmrlxgvwwuvzjggRbgivllkbg.ugv
iszugrpgbmugfvov tg.uglkbgqmkootg raimvzxu ;grpgzuwulbvliugquzugovr gswkl
bmugaivougkpgbmug.vovliu,grbgqkso gqurxmg kqlgarljggRgprl glkgesvorbtgak
uvatgbkgikslbuzpurbgvag unkbrkl,grpgfulg kglkbgiklpkzfgbmurzgfvlluzagvl 
orpugbkgbmugwzkpuaarkl;grbaguaauliugragv.abzsaugvl gkiisob;gbmu
vwwuvzvliuguvatgvl gkabulbvbrksaj

Pkzgftgkqlgwvzb,gRgfvtg uarzugrlgxuluzvogbkg.ugkbmuzgbmvlgRgvf;gRgfvt
ikl uflgvl g raorcugftgqmkougpkzf,gvl g.uxgkpgVofrxmbtgXk gpkzgvlgulbrzu
zupkzfvbrkl,gvl gbmvbgMugqroogwouvaugbkgwvz klgftglvbszvogrlprzfrbt:g.sb
Rgksxmbglkbgbkgivoogbmragzuwulbvliu,gfubmrlca,glkgfkzugbmvlgbmug.urlx
 raavbrapru gbmvbgRgvfglkbgvlgvlxuogkzgIvbkjggFtgvibrklagvzugzuxsovz,
vl giklpkzfv.ougbkgqmvbgRgvfgvl gbkgftgikl rbrkl;gRgivlg kglkg.ubbuz;
vl gzuwulbvliug kuaglkbgwzkwuzotgbksimgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkbgrlgkszgwkquz;
akzzkqg kuajjggRgrfvxrlugvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpglvbszuagfkzuguounvbu gvl 
zuxsovzgbmvlgfrlu;gvl gtubgRg kglkbgpkzgvoogbmvbgrfwzknugftgpvisobrua,glk
fkzugbmvlgftgvzfgkzgqroogxzkqgfkzugabzklxgvl gnrxkzksagpkzgikliurnrlx
bmkaugkpgvlkbmuzgbkg.ugakjggRpgbkgikliurnugvl gqramgvglk.ouzgqvtgkp
vibrlxgbmvlgbmvbgqugmvnugamkso gwzk siugvgzuwulbvliugkpgkszgkql,gqugfsab
bmulgzuwulbgsagkpgkszgfkabgrllkiulbgvibrkla,gpkzvafsimgvagqugfvtgquoo
aswwkaugbmvbgrlgvgfkzuguhiuooulbglvbszugbmutgqkso gmvnug.uulgivzzru gkl
qrbmgxzuvbuzg rxlrbtgvl gwuzpuibrkl;gvl gqugqkso gbmvbgkszagquzugakj
QmulgRgzupouibgswklgbmug uwkzbfulbgkpgftgtksbm,gqrbmgbmvbgkpgftgko gvxu,
Rgprl gbmvbgRgmvnugikffklotg.umvnu gftauopgqrbmguesvogkz uzgrlg.kbm
viikz rlxgbkgqmvbgRgsl uzabvl :gbmragragvoogbmvbgftgzuarabvliugivlg kj
Rg kglkbgpovbbuzgftauop;grlgbmugavfugirzisfabvliuagRgamkso g kgbmugavfu
bmrlxajggRbgraglkbgvgwvbim,g.sbgzvbmuzgvlgslrnuzavogbrlibszu,gqrbmgqmrim
Rgvfgabvrlu jggRgclkqglkgzuwulbvliu,gaswuzprirvo,gmvop-qvt,gvl 
iuzufklrksa;grbgfsabgabrlxgfugvoogknuzg.upkzugRgivlgivoogrbgak,gvl gfsab
wzricgftg.kquoagvag uuwotgvl gslrnuzavootgvagXk gauuagrlbkgfuj

Vagbkg.sarluaa,gfvltguhiuooulbgkwwkzbslrbruagmvnuguaivwu gfugpkzgqvlbgkp
xkk gfvlvxufulb;gvl gtubgftg uor.uzvbrklagquzugaksl gulksxm,gviikz rlxgbk
bmugkiiszzuliuagwzuaulbu gbkgfu:g‘bragbmurzgqvtgbkgimkkaugvoqvtagbmu
uvaruabgvl gavpuabgikszaujggRgprl gbmvb,grlgftgpkzfuzgzuakonua,gRgmvnu
wzkiuu u gqrbmg raizubrkl,gviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlgzsou,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
abvbugkpgbmugas.yuibgwzkwkau ,gvl gamkso g kgbmugavfugvgbmksavl gtuvza
muliugrlgorcugkiivarkla;gRg kglkbgiklar uzgqmvbgrbgraglkq,g.sbgqmvbgrb
qvagbmul,gqmulgRg uor.uzvbu gklgrb:gbmugpkziugkpgvoogikslauogiklarabagrl
bmugbrfu;gkiivarklagvl gbmrlxagubuzlvootgamrpbgvl gimvlxujggRgmvnugrlgft
orpugikffrbbu gakfugrfwkzbvlbguzzkza,glkbgpkzgqvlbgkpgxkk gsl uzabvl rlx,
.sbgpkzgqvlbgkpgxkk gosicjggBmuzugvzugauizub,gvl glkbgbkg.ugpkzuauul,
wvzbagrlgfvbbuzagqugmvnugrlgmvl ,guawuirvootgrlgbmuglvbszugkpgful;gfsbu
ikl rbrkla,gbmvbgfvcuglkgamkq,gslclkqlgakfubrfuagunulgbkgbmugwkaauaakza
bmufauonua,gbmvbgawzrlxgvl gabvzbgswg.tgrlir ulbvogkiivarkla;grpgft
wzs uliugikso glkbgwulubzvbugrlbkglkzgpkzuauugbmuf,gRg.ovfugrbglkb:g‘bra
ikffraarklu glkgpszbmuzgbmvlgrbagkqlgorfrba;grpgbmugunulbg.ugbkkgmvz gpkz
fu,gvl gbvcugbmugar ugRgmvnugzupsau ,gbmuzugraglkgzufu t;gRg kglkbg.ovfu
ftauop,gRgviisaugftgpkzbslu,gvl glkbgftgqkzc;gbmragivllkbg.ugivoou 
zuwulbvliuj

Wmkirkl,gmvnrlxgxrnulgbmugVbmulrvlagvlgv nriugbmvbgqvaglkbgpkookqu ,gvl 
bmugvppvrzglunuzbmuouaagasiiuu rlxgiklbzvztgbkgmragkwrlrkl,gakfugklugavr 
bkgmrf,g“Quoo,gWmkirkl,gvzbgbmksgiklbulbgbmvbgfvbbuzagxkgakgquoo?”--“Rgvf
nuztgquoogiklbulb,”gzuworu gmu,g“bmvbgbmragmvagmvwwulu gakgquoo,g.sbgRg k
lkbgzuwulbgbmvbgRgikslauoou gbmugkbmuzj”ggQmulgvltgkpgftgpzrul agv  zuaa
bmufauonuagbkgfugpkzgv nriu,gRgxrnugrbgivl r otgvl giouvzot,gqrbmksb
abricrlx,gvagvofkabgvoogkbmuzgfulg k,gvbgbmugmvdvz gkpgbmugbmrlx’a
pvoorlxgksbgiklbzvztgbkgftgkwrlrkl,gvl gbmvbgRgfvtg.ugzuwzkvimu gpkzgft
ikslauo;gRgvfgnuztgrl rppuzulbgvagbkgbmvb,gpkzgbmugpvsobgqroog.ugbmurza
pkzgmvnrlxgiklasobu gfu,gvl gRgikso glkbgzupsaugbmufgbmvbgkppriuj
--[Qugfvtgxrnugv nriugbkgkbmuza,gavtagZkimupksivso ,g.sbgqugivllkb
aswwotgbmufgqrbmgbmugqrbgbkgwzkprbg.tgrbj]

R,gpkzgftgkqlgwvzb,givlgzvzuotg.ovfugvltgklug.sbgftauopgpkzgftgknuzarxmba
vl gfrapkzbslua,gpkzgrl uu gRgauo kfgakorirbgbmugv nriugkpgvlkbmuz,
rpglkbg.tgmklkszgkpgiuzufklt,gkzguhiuwbrlxgqmuzugRgabvl grlgluu gkp
rlpkzfvbrkl,gawuirvogairuliu,gkzgvagbkgfvbbuzgkpgpvibjgg.sbgrlgbmrlxa
qmuzurlgRgabvl grlgluu gkpglkbmrlxg.sbgys xfulb,gkbmuzgful’agzuvaklagfvt
auznugbkgpkzbrptgftgkql,g.sbgmvnugorbbougwkquzgbkg raasv ugfu;gRgmuvz
bmufgvoogqrbmgirnrorbtgvl gwvbruliu;g.sb,gbkgftgzuikoouibrkl,gRglunuz
fv ugsaugkpgvltg.sbgftgkqljggQrbmgfu,gbmutgvzug.sbgporuagvl gvbkfa,gbmvb
iklpksl gvl g rabzvibgftgqroo;gRgovtglkgxzuvbgabzuaagswklgftgkwrlrkla;
.sbgRgovtgvagorbbougswklgbmkaugkpgkbmuza,gvl gpkzbslugzuqvz agfu
viikz rlxot:grpgRgzuiurnug.sbgorbbougv nriu,gRgvoakgxrnug.sbgorbboujggR
vfgauo kfgiklasobu ,gvl gabroogfkzugauo kfg.uorunu ,gvl gclkqglkgikliuzl,
urbmuzgws.origkzgwzrnvbu,gbmvbgmvag.uulgful u gkzg.ubbuzu g.tgftgv nriuj
Unulgbmutgqmkfgpkzbslugmv grlgakfugakzbgbru gbkgftg rzuibrkl,gmvnugfkzu
qroorlxotgasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ugxknuzlu g.tgvltgkbmuzgikslauoagbmvl
frlujggVl gvagvgfvlgqmkgvfgvagyuvoksagkpgftgzuwkaugvagkpgftgvsbmkzrbt,
Rgvfg.ubbuzgwouvau gbmvbgrbgamkso g.ugak;grlgouvnrlxgfugbmuzu,gbmut
msfkszgqmvbgRgwzkpuaa,gqmrimgragbkgaubbougvl gqmkootgiklbvrlgftauop
qrbmrlgftauopjggRgbvcugvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgslrlbuzuabu grlgkbmuzgful’a
vppvrza,gvl g raulxvxu gpzkfg.urlxgbmurzgqvzzvlbt,gvl gzuawklar.ougpkz
qmvbgbmutg kj

Rlgvoogvppvrzagbmvbgvzugwvab,g.ugrbgmkqgrbgqroo,gRgmvnugnuztgorbbou
zuxzub;gpkzgbmragrfvxrlvbrklgwsbagfugksbgkpgftgwvrl,gbmvbgbmutgquzugakgbk
pvoogksbgbmutgvzugrlgbmugxzuvbgzunkosbrklgkpgbmugqkzo ,gvl grlgbmugimvrl
kpgabkrivog‘ivsaua:gtkszgpvlitgivllkb,g.tgqramgvl grfvxrlvbrkl,gfknugklu
brbbou,g.sbgbmvbgbmugxzuvbgiszzulbgkpgbmrlxagqrooglkbgzunuzaug.kbmgbmu
wvabgvl gbmugpsbszuj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgv.kfrlvbugbmvbgrlir ulbvogzuwulbvliugqmrimgko gvxu
.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrbjggMu,gqmkgavr gkpgko ,gbmvbgmugqvagk.orxu gbkgmra
vxugpkzgmvnrlxgquvlu gmrfgpzkfgwouvaszu,gqvagkpgvlkbmuzgkwrlrklgbmvlgR
vf;gRgivlglunuzgbmrlcgftauopg.umko ulgbkgrfwkbulitgpkzgvltgxkk grbgivlg k
bkgfu:

ggggg“Luigbvfgvnuzavgslesvfgnr u.rbszgv.gkwuzugaskgwzknr ulbrv,
gggggsbg u.rorbvagrlbuzgkwbrfvgrlnulbvgarbj”

ggggg[“LkzgivlgWzknr uliugunuzgauufgakgvnuzaugbkgmuzgkqlgqkzc,gbmvb
ggggg u.rorbtgamkso g.ugpksl gbkg.ugvfklxabgbmug.uabgbmrlxaj”
gggggg--Esrlbrorvl,gRlabrbjggKzvbj,gnjg12j]

Kszgvwwubrbuagvzugzvzugrlgko gvxu;gvgwzkpksl gavbrubtgaurduagsagvpbuzgbmu
vib;grlgbmragRgauuglkbmrlxgkpgiklairuliu;gimvxzrlgvl gquvcluaagrfwzrlbgrl
sagvg zkqatgvl gzmusfvbrignrzbsujggQugfsabglkbgasppuzgkszauonuagbkg.ugak
qmkootgivzzru gvqvtg.tglvbszvogvobuzvbrklagvagbkgasppuzgkszgys xfulbagbk
.ugrfwkau gswklg.tgbmufjggTksbmgvl gwouvaszugmvnuglkbgpkzfuzotgakgpvz
wzunvrou gqrbmgfu,gbmvbgRg r glkbgquoogulksxmg raiuzlgbmugpviugkpgnriugrl
wouvaszu;glurbmuzg kuagbmug rabvabugbmvbgtuvzagmvnug.zksxmbgfu,gakgpvz
wzunvrogqrbmgfuglkq,gbmvbgRgivllkbg raiuzlgwouvaszugrlgnriujggLkqgbmvbgR
vfglkgfkzugrlgftgpokszramrlxgvxu,gRgys xugvagquoogkpgbmuaugbmrlxagvagrpgR
quzuj

gggggggggg[“Ko gbmksxmgRgvf,gpkzgov rua’goknugslprb,
ggggggggggBmugwkquzgkpg.uvsbtgRgzufuf.uzgtubj”--Imvsiuzj]

R,gqmkglvzzkqotgvl gabzribotguhvfrlugrb,gprl gftgzuvaklgbmugnuztgavfugrb
qvagrlgftgfkabgoriulbrksagvxu,guhiuwb,gwuzmvwa,gbmvbg‘bragquvcuzgvl gfkzu
 uivtu g.tg.urlxgxzkqlgko uz;gvl gRgprl gbmvbgbmugwouvaszugrbgzupsauagfu
swklgbmugviikslbgkpgftg.k rotgmuvobm,grbgqkso glkgfkzugzupsauglkq,grl
iklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugmuvobmgkpgftgakso,gbmvlgvbgvltgbrfugmuzubkpkzuj
Rg kglkbgzuwsbugrbgbmugfkzugnvorvlbgpkzglkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgikf.vb;gft
bufwbvbrklagvzugakg.zkculgvl gfkzbrpru ,gbmvbgbmutgvzuglkbgqkzbmgrba
kwwkarbrkl;gmko rlxg.sbgksbgftgmvl a,gRgzuwuogbmufjggAmkso gklugwzuaulb
bmugko gikliswraiuliug.upkzugrb,gRgpuvzgrbgqkso gmvnugouaagwkquzgbk
zuarabgrbgbmvlgmuzubkpkzu;gRg kglkbg raiuzlgbmvbgrlgrbauopgrbgys xua
vltbmrlxgkbmuzqrauglkqgbmvlgrbgpkzfuzotg r ,glkzgbmvbgrbgmvagviesrzu gvlt
luqgorxmb:gqmuzupkzu,grpgbmuzug.ugiklnvouaiuliu,g‘bragvlgulimvlbu gkluj
Frauzv.ougcrl gkpgzufu t,gbkgkqugklu’agmuvobmgbkgklu’ag rauvau!ggBraglkb
bmvbgkszgfrapkzbslugamkso gwuzpkzfgbmragkppriu,g.sbgbmugxkk gpkzbslugkp
kszgys xfulbjggRgvfglkbgbkg.ugfv ugbkg kgvltbmrlxg.tgwuzauisbrklagvl 
vpporibrkla,g.sbgbkgiszaugbmuf:gbmvbgra,gpkzgwukwougqmkgivllkbg.ugzksau 
.sbg.tgvgqmrwjggFtgzuvaklgragfsimgfkzugpzuugrlgwzkawuzrbt,gvl gfsimgfkzu
 rabzvibu ,gvl gwsbgbk’bgbkg rxuabgwvrlagbmvlgwouvaszua:gRgauug.uabgrlgv
iouvzgact;gmuvobmgv fklramuagfugfkzugimuuzpsoot,gvl gbkg.ubbuzgwszwkau,
bmvlgaricluaajggRg r gvoogbmvbgrlgfugovtgbkgzupkzfgvl gzuxsovbugftauop
pzkfgwouvaszua,gvbgvgbrfugqmulgRgmv gmuvobmgvl gnrxkszgbkgulyktgbmuf;
Rgamkso g.ugvamvfu gvl gulnrksagbmvbgbmugfrauztgvl gfrapkzbslugkpgftgko 
vxugamkso gmvnugizu rbgknuzgftgxkk gmuvobmpso,gawzrxmbot,gvl gnrxkzksa
tuvza,gvl gbmvbgfulgamkso guabrfvbugfu,glkbg.tgqmvbgRgmvnug.uul,g.sbg.t
qmvbgRgmvnugiuvau gbkg.uj

Rlgftgkwrlrkl,g‘bragbmugmvwwtgornrlx,gvl glkbg(vagVlbrabmulua’gavr )gbmu
mvwwtg trlx,grlgqmrimgmsfvlgpuorirbtgiklarabajggRgmvnuglkbgfv ugrbgft
.sarluaagbkgfvcugvgfklabzksagv  rbrklgkpgvgwmrokakwmuz’agbvrogbkgbmugmuv 
vl g.k tgkpgvgor.uzbrlu;glkzgqkso gRgmvnugbmragqzubimu gzufvrl uzgxrnu
bmugorugbkgbmugwouvavlb,gaksl ,gvl goklxgwvzbgkpgftgorpu:gRgqkso gwzuaulb
ftauopgslrpkzfotgbmzksxmksbjggQuzugRgbkgornugftgorpugknuzgvxvrl,gRgamkso 
ornugrbgysabgvagRgmvnugornu grb;gRglurbmuzgikfwovrlgkpgbmugwvab,glkzg kgR
puvzgbmugpsbszu;gvl grpgRgvfglkbgfsimg uiurnu ,gRgvfgbmugavfugqrbmrlgbmvb
Rgvfgqrbmksbjgg‘Bragklugfvrlgk.orxvbrklgRgmvnugbkgftgpkzbslu,gbmvbgbmu
asiiuaarklgkpgftg.k rotguabvbugmvag.uulgivzzru gklgviikz rlxgbkgbmu
lvbszvogauvakla;gRgmvnugauulgbmugxzvaa,gbmug.okaakf,gvl gbmugpzsrb,gvl 
lkqgauugbmugqrbmuzrlx;gmvwwrot,gmkqunuz,g.uivsauglvbszvootjggRg.uvzgbmu
rlprzfrbruagRgmvnugbmug.ubbuz,g.uivsaugbmutgivfuglkbgbroogRgmv gzuvaklgbk
uhwuibgbmuf,gvl g.uivsaugvoakgbmutgfvcugfugqrbmgxzuvbuzgwouvaszugzufuf.uz
bmvbgoklxgpuorirbtgkpgftgwvabgorpujggFtgqra kfgfvtgmvnug.uulgysabgbmu
avfugrlg.kbmgvxua,g.sbgrbgqvagfkzugvibrnu,gvl gkpg.ubbuzgxzviugqmroab
tkslxgvl gawzrxmbot,gbmvlglkqgrbgragqmulg.zkcul,gwuunram,gvl gsluvatj
Rgzuws rvbu,gbmul,gbmuaugivasvogvl gwvrlpsogzupkzfvbrklajggXk gfsabgbksim
kszgmuvzba;gkszgiklairuliuagfsabgvful gkpgbmufauonua,g.tgbmugvr gkpgksz
zuvakl,gvl glkbg.tgbmug uivtgkpgkszgvwwubrbua;gwouvaszugra,grlgrbauop,
lurbmuzgwvouglkzg raikokszu ,gbkg.ug raiuzlu g.tg rfgvl g uivtu gutuaj

Qugksxmbgbkgoknugbufwuzvliugpkzgrbauop,gvl g.uivsaugXk gmvagikffvl u 
bmvbgvl gimvabrbt;g.sbgbmvbgqmrimgqugvzugzu siu gbkg.tgivbvzzma,gvl gpkz
qmrimgRgvfgrl u.bu gbkgbmugabklu,graglurbmuzgimvabrbtglkzgbufwuzvliu;gv
fvlgivllkbg.kvabgbmvbgmug uawrauagvl gzuarabagwouvaszugrpgmugivllkbgauu
rb,grpgmugclkqaglkbgqmvbgrbgra,gvl givllkbg raiuzlgrbagxzviua,grbagpkziu,
vl gfkabgvooszrlxg.uvsbrua;gRgclkqg.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuz,gvl gfvt
bmuzupkzugbmug.ubbuzgavtgrbjgg.sb;gfubmrlca,gkszgaksoagrlgko gvxugvzu
as.yuibgbkgfkzugbzks.ouakfugfvov ruagvl grfwuzpuibrklagbmvlgrlgtksbm;
Rgavr gbmugavfugqmulgtkslxgvl gqmulgRgqvagzuwzkvimu gqrbmgbmugqvlbgkpgv
.uvz ;gvl gRgavtgakglkqgbmvbgftgxzutgmvrzagxrnugfugakfugvsbmkzrbtjggQu
ivoogbmug rpprisobtgkpgkszgmsfkszagvl gbmug razuoramgkpgwzuaulbgbmrlxa
qra kf;g.sb,grlgbzsbm,gqug kglkbgakgfsimgpkzavcugnriuagvagqugimvlxugbmuf,
vl grlgftgkwrlrkl,gpkzgqkzaujgg.uar uagvgpkkoramgvl gpuu.ougwzr u,gvl
rfwuzbrlulbgwzvbrlx,gpzkqvz gvl grlakirv.ougmsfksza,gaswuzabrbrkl,gvl gv
zr risoksag uarzugkpgzrimuagqmulgqugmvnugokabgbmugsaugkpgbmuf,gRgprl 
bmuzugfkzugulnt,grlysabriu,gvl gfvoriujggVxugrfwzrlbagfkzugqzrlcouagrl
bmugfrl gbmvlgrbg kuagklgbmugpviu;gvl gaksoagvzuglunuz,gkzgnuztgzvzuot
auul,gbmvb,grlgxzkqrlxgko ,g kglkbgafuoogakszgvl gfsabtjggFvlgfknuagvoo
bkxubmuz,g.kbmgbkqvz agmragwuzpuibrklgvl g uivtjggRlgk.auznrlxgbmugqra kf
kpgAkizvbua,gvl gfvltgirzisfabvliuagkpgmragikl uflvbrkl,gRgamkso g vzugbk
.uorunugbmvbgmugrlgakfugakzbgmrfauopgwszwkauot,g.tgikoosarkl,giklbzr.sbu 
bkgrb,gauurlxgbmvb,gvbgbmugvxugkpgaunulbtgtuvza,gmugfrxmbgpuvzgbkgasppuz
bmugokpbtgfkbrklagkpgmragfrl gbkg.ugizvfwu gvl gmragqklbu gosabzu
k.aiszu jggQmvbgabzvlxugfubvfkzwmkauag kgRgauugvxugunuztg vtgfvcugrlgfvlt
kpgftgviesvrlbvliu!gg‘Bragvgwkbulbgfvov t,gvl gbmvbglvbszvootgvl 
rfwuziuwbr.otgabuvoagrlbkgsa;gvgnvabgwzknrarklgkpgabs tgvl gxzuvb
wzuivsbrklgvzugzuesrzu gbkgunv ugbmugrfwuzpuibrklagrbgokv agsagqrbm,gkz
vbgouvabgbkgquvculgbmurzgwzkxzuaajggRgprl gbmvb,glkbqrbmabvl rlxgvoogft
ulbzulimfulba,grbgxubagpkkbg.tgpkkbgswklgfu:gRgfvcugbmug.uabgzuarabvliugR
ivl,g.sbgRg kglkbgclkqgbkgqmvbgvbgovabgrbgqroogzu siugfujgg.sbgpvoogksb
qmvbgqroo,gRgvfgiklbulbgbmugqkzo gfvtgclkq,gqmulgRgvfgpvooul,gpzkfgqmvbgR
puooj




IMVWBUZgRRR

KPgBMZUUgIKFFUZIUA

Qugfsabglkbgzrnubgkszauonuagakgpvabgbkgkszgmsfkszagvl gikfwouhrkla:gksz
imrupuabgaspprirulitgragbkgclkqgmkqgbkgvwwotgkszauonuagbkg rnuza
ufwoktfulbajgg‘Bragbkg.u,g.sbglkbgbkgornu,gbkgcuuwgvgfvl’agauopgbru gvl 
.ksl g.tgluiuaarbtgbkgklugklotgikszau;gbmkaugvzugbmug.zvnuabgaksoagbmvb
mvnugrlgbmufgbmugfkabgnvzrubtgvl gworvlitjggKpgbmragmuzugragvlgmklkszv.ou
buabrfkltgkpgbmuguo uzgIvbk:

gggggggggg“Msrignuzavbrougrlxulrsfgarigwvzrbuzgv gkflrvgpsrb,
ggggggggggsbglvbsfgv gr gslsfg riuzua,gesk isfesugvxuzubj”

ggggg[“Mragwvzbagquzugakgworv.ougbkgvoogsaua,gbmvbgklugqkso gavtgmugmv 
ggggg.uulg.kzlgklotgbkgbmvbgqmrimgmugqvag krlxj”--Ornt,ghhhrhjg49j]

Mv gRgor.uzbtgbkgaubgftauopgpkzbmgvpbuzgftgkqlgfk u,gbmuzugraglkgak
xzviupsogpvamrklgbkgqmrimgRgqkso g.ugakgprhu gvaglkbgbkg.ugv.ougbk
 raulxvxugftauopgpzkfgrb;gorpugragvlgsluesvo,grzzuxsovzgvl gfsobrpkzf
fkbrkljgg‘Braglkbgbkg.ugvgpzrul gbkgklu’agauop,gfsimgouaagvgfvabuzg‘bra
bkg.ugvgaovnu,grliuaavlbotgbkg.ugou g.tgbmuglkaug.tgklu’agauop,gvl gbkg.u
akgprhu grlgklu’agwzunrksagrliorlvbrkla,gbmvbgklugivllkbgbszlgvar uglkz
qzrbmugklu’agluicgksbgkpgbmugikoovzjggRgavtgbmraglkqgrlgbmragwvzbgkpgft
orpu,gqmuzurlgRgprl gRgivllkbguvarotg raulxvxugftauopgpzkfgbmu
rfwkzbslrbtgkpgftgakso,gqmrimgivllkbgkz rlvzrotgvfsaugrbauopg.sbgrl
bmrlxagkpgorfrbu gzvlxu,glkzgufwoktgrbauopgkbmuzqraugbmvlgulbrzuotgvl 
qrbmgvoogrbagpkziu;gswklgbmugorxmbuabgas.yuibgkppuzu grbguhwvl agvl 
abzubimuagrbgbkgbmvbg uxzuugvagbmuzurlgbkgufwoktgrbagsbfkabgwkquz;
qmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgr ouluaagragbkgfugvgnuztgwvrlpsogov.ksz,gvl gnuzt
wzuys rirvogbkgftgmuvobmjggFkabgful’agfrl agzuesrzugpkzurxlgfvbbuzgbk
uhuziraugvl gulornulgbmuf;gfrlugmvagzvbmuzgluu gkpgrbgbkgarbgabroogvl 
zuwkaugrbauop,

ggggggggggggggg“Nrbrvgkbrrgluxkbrkg raisbrul vgaslb,”

gggggggggg[“Bmugnriuagkpgaokbmgvzugbkg.ugamvculgkppg.tg.sarluaaj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwjg56j]

pkzgrbagimrupuabgvl gmvz uabgabs tgragbkgabs tgrbauopjgg.kkcagvzugbkgrb
vgakzbgkpgufwoktfulbgbmvbg u.vsimgrbgpzkfgrbagabs tjggSwklgbmugprzab
bmksxmbagbmvbgwkaauaagrb,grbg.uxrlagbkg.sabougvl gfvcugbzrvogkpgrba
nrxkszgrlgvoog rzuibrkla,guhuzirauagrbagwkquzgkpgmvl orlx,glkqgfvcrlx
bzrvogkpgpkziu,glkqgpkzbrptrlx,gfk uzvbrlx,gvl gzvlxrlxgrbauopg.tgbmugqvt
kpgxzviugvl gkz uzjggRbgmvagkpgrbagkqlgqmuzuqrbmgbkgzksaugrbagpvisobrua:
lvbszugmvagxrnulgbkgrb,gvagbkgvoogkbmuza,gfvbbuzgulksxmgkpgrbagkqlgbk
fvcugv nvlbvxugkp,gvl gas.yuibagwzkwuzgulksxmgqmuzugrbgfvtgurbmuzgrlnulb
kzgys xuj

Fu rbvbrklgragvgwkquzpsogvl gpsoogabs tgbkgasimgvagivlguppuibsvootgbvabu
vl gufwoktgbmufauonua;gRgmv gzvbmuzgpvamrklgftgaksogbmvlgpszlramgrbj
Bmuzugraglkgufwoktfulb,gurbmuzgfkzugquvcgkzgfkzugabzklx,gbmvlgbmvbgkp
ulbuzbvrlrlxgvgfvl’agkqlgbmksxmba,gviikz rlxgvagbmugaksogra;gbmugxzuvbuab
fulgfvcugrbgbmurzgqmkoug.sarluaa,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Esr.sagnrnuzuguabgikxrbvzu;”

ggggg[“Bkgqmkfgbkgornugragbkgbmrlcj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg28j]

lvbszugmvagbmuzupkzugpvnkszu grbgqrbmgbmragwzrnrouxu,gbmvbgbmuzugra
lkbmrlxgqugivlg kgakgoklx,glkzgvltgvibrklgbkgqmrimgqugfkzugpzuesulbotgvl 
qrbmgxzuvbuzgpvirorbtgv  ribgkszauonuajgg‘Bragbmug.sarluaagkpgbmugxk a,
avtagVzrabkbou,’gvl gpzkfgqmrimg.kbmgbmurzg.uvbrbs ugvl gkszagwzkiuu j

Bmugwzrlirwvogsaugkpgzuv rlxgbkgfugra,gbmvbg.tgnvzrksagk.yuibagrbgzksaua
ftgzuvakl,gvl gufwoktagftgys xfulb,glkbgftgfufkztjggPuqgiklnuzavbrkla
 ubvrlgfugqrbmksbgpkziugvl guppkzb;grbgragbzsugbmvbg.uvsbtgvl guouxvliu
kpgawuuimgbvcugvagfsimgkzgfkzugqrbmgfugbmvlgbmugqurxmbgvl g uwbmgkpgbmu
as.yuib;gvl gpkzvafsimgvagRgvfgvwbgbkg.ugaouuwtgrlgvoogkbmuz
ikffslrivbrkl,gvl gxrnug.sbgbmugzrl gkpgftgvbbulbrkl,grbgkpbulgpvooagksb
bmvbgrlgasimgwkkzgvl gwrbrpsog raikszaua,gfuzugimvbbuz,gRgurbmuzgfvcu
 zkqat,gslfuvlrlxgvlaquza,gsl.uikfrlxgvgimro ,gvl gzr risoksa,gkzgfkzu
pkkoramotgvl gzs uotgabroo,gfvrlbvrlgvlgk.abrlvbugarouliujggRgmvnugv
wularnugqvtgbmvbgqrbm zvqagfugrlbkgftauop,gvl ,gqrbmgbmvb,gvgmuvntgvl 
imro ramgrxlkzvliugkpgfvltgnuztgkz rlvztgbmrlxa,g.tgqmrimgbqkgesvorbruagR
mvnuguvzlu gbmra,gbmvbgfulgfvtgbzsotgzuovbugprnugkzgarhgvagzr risoksa
bvouagkpgfugvagkpgvltgkbmuzgfvlgqmvbunuzj

.sb,gbkgwzkiuu grlgftgas.yuib,gbmrag rpprisobgikfwouhrklgkpgfrlugzul uza
fugnuztglriugrlgftgiklnuzavbrklgqrbmgful,gqmkfgRgfsabgisoogvl gwricgksb
pkzgftgwszwkau;gvl gslprbagfugpkzgikffklgakirubtjggQugornugvl gluxkbrvbu
qrbmgbmugwukwou;grpgbmurzgiklnuzavbrklg.ugbzks.ouakfugbkgsa,grpgqu
 ra vrlgbkgvwwotgkszauonuagbkgfuvlgvl gnsoxvzgaksoag(vl gbmugfuvlgvl 
nsoxvzgvzugkpbulgvagzuxsovzgvagbmkaugkpgbmugprluabgbmzuv ,gvl gvoogqra kf
ragpkootgbmvbg kuaglkbgviikffk vbugrbauopgbkgbmugikffklgrxlkzvliu),
qugfsabglkgfkzugrlbuzfu  ougurbmuzgqrbmgkbmuzgful’agvppvrzagkzgkszgkql;
pkzg.sarluaa,g.kbmgws.origvl gwzrnvbu,gmvagbkg kgqrbmgbmuaugwukwoujggBmu
ouvabgpkziu gvl gfkabglvbszvogfkbrklagkpgbmugaksogvzugbmugfkabg.uvsbrpso;
bmug.uabgufwoktfulba,gbmkaugbmvbgvzugouvabgabzvrlu jggFtgXk !ggmkqgxkk 
vlgkppriug kuagqra kfgbkgbmkaugqmkaug uarzuagrbgorfrbagbkgbmurzgwkquz!
bmvbgragbmugfkabgsaupsogclkqou xu:g“viikz rlxgbkgqmvbgvgfvlgivl,”gqvagbmu
pvnkszrbugaulbuliugvl gfkbbkgkpgAkizvbuajggVgfkbbkgkpgxzuvbgakor rbtj

Qugfsabgfk uzvbugvl gv vwbgkszg uarzuagbkgbmugluvzuabgvl guvaruabgbkg.u
viesrzu gbmrlxajggRagrbglkbgvgpkkoramgmsfkszgkpgfrlugbkgauwvzvbugftauop
pzkfgvgbmksavl gbkgqmkfgftgpkzbslugmvagiklykrlu gfu,gvl gqrbmksbgqmkfgR
ivllkbgornu,gvl giouvnugbkgklugkzgbqkgqmkgvzugksbgkpgftgrlbuzikszau;gkz
zvbmuzgvgpvlbvabrig uarzugkpgvgbmrlxgRgivllkbgk.bvrl?ggFtgxulbougvl guvat
fvlluza,gulufruagkpgvoogakszluaagvl gmvzamluaa,gfvtguvarotgulksxmgmvnu
auiszu gfugpzkfgulntgvl gvlrfkarbrua;gbkg.ug.uoknu ,gRg kglkbgavt,g.sb
lunuzgvltgfvlgxvnugouaagkiivarklgkpg.urlxgmvbu ;g.sbgbmugiko luaagkpgft
iklnuzavbrklgmva,gzuvaklv.otgulksxm,g uwzrnu gfugkpgbmugxkk qroogkpgfvlt,
qmkgvzugbkg.uguhisau grpgbmutgrlbuzwzubgrbgrlgvlkbmuzgvl gqkzaugaulauj

Rgvfgnuztgivwv.ougkpgiklbzvibrlxgvl gfvrlbvrlrlxgzvzugvl guhesrarbu
pzrul amrwa;gpkzg.tgzuvaklgbmvbgRgakgxzuu rotgaurdugswklgasim
viesvrlbvliugvagprbgftgorcrlx,gRgbmzkqgftauopgqrbmgasimgnrkouliugswkl
bmufgbmvbgRgmvz otgpvrogbkgabric,gvl gbkgfvcugvlgrfwzuaarklgqmuzugRgmrb;
vagRgmvnugkpbulgfv ugmvwwtgwzkkpjggRlgkz rlvztgpzrul amrwagRgvfgakfuqmvb
iko gvl gamt,gpkzgftgfkbrklgraglkbglvbszvo,grpglkbgqrbmgpsoogavro:
.uar uagqmrim,gftgpkzbslugmvnrlxgrlgftgtksbmgxrnulgfugvgzuoramgpkzgklu
akougvl gwuzpuibgpzrul amrw,gmva,grlgbzsbm,gizuvbu grlgfugvgcrl gkp
 rabvabugbkgkbmuza,gvl gbkkgfsimgrfwzrlbu grlgftgpvlitgbmvbgrbgragvg.uvab
kpgikfwvlt,gvagbmugvlirulbgavr ,g.sbglkbgkpgbmugmuz j--[Wosbvzim,gKlgbmu
WoszvorbtgkpgPzrul a,gijgg2j]--Vl gvoakgRgmvnugvglvbszvog rpprisobtgkp
ikffslrivbrlxgftauopg.tgmvonua,gqrbmgbmugfk rprivbrklagvl gbmugauznrou
vl gyuvoksagwzs uliugzuesrzu grlgbmugiklnuzavbrklgkpglsfuzksagvl 
rfwuzpuibgpzrul amrwa:gvl gqugvzugwzrlirwvootgulykrlu gbkgbmuaugrlgbmra
vxugkpgksza,gqmulgqugivllkbgbvocgkpgbmugqkzo g.sbgurbmuzgqrbmg vlxuzgkz
pvoaumkk j

Tubg kgRgnuztgquoog raiuzlgbmvbgmugqmkgmvagbmugiklnulruliuag(Rgfuvlgbmu
uaaulbrvogiklnulruliua)gkpgorpugpkzgmragul ,gvagRgmvnu,gksxmbgbkgpot
bmuaug rpprisobruagvl g uorivitgkpgmsfksz,gvagfsimgvagbmugwovxsujggR
amkso gikfful gvgaksogkpgaunuzvogabvxua,gbmvbgclkqag.kbmgmkqgbkgabzubim
vl gbkgaoviculgrbauop;gbmvbgprl agrbauopgvbguvaugrlgvoogikl rbrkla
qmrbmuzgpkzbslugouv agrb;gbmvbgivlg raikszaugqrbmgvglurxm.ksz,gkpgmra
.sro rlx,gmragmslbrlx,gmragesvzzuoa;gbmvbgivlgimvbgqrbmgvgivzwulbuzgkzgv
xvz uluzgqrbmgwouvaszujggRgulntgbmkaugqmkgivlgzul uzgbmufauonuagpvfrorvz
qrbmgbmugfuvluabgkpgbmurzgpkookquza,gvl gbvocgqrbmgbmufgrlgbmurzgkqlgqvt;
vl g raorcugbmugv nriugkpgWovbk,ggbmvbgfulgamkso gvoqvtagawuvcgrlgv
fvxrabuzrvogbklugbkgbmurzgauznvlba,gqmubmuzgfulgkzgqkful,gqrbmksbg.urlx
akfubrfuagpviubrksagvl gpvfrorvz;gpkzg.uar uagbmugzuvaklagRgmvnugxrnul,
‘bragrlmsfvlgvl gslysabgbkgaubgakgxzuvbgvgnvosugswklgbmragwrbrpso
wzuzkxvbrnugkpgpkzbslu,gvl gbmugwkorbruagqmuzurlgouaag rawvzrbtgra
wuzfrbbu g.ubqrhbgfvabuzagvl gauznvlbagauufgbkgfugbmugfkabguesrbv.ouj
Kbmuzagabs tgmkqgbkgzvraugvl guounvbugbmurzgfrl a;gR,gmkqgbkgmsf.ougfrlu
vl gbkg.zrlxgrbgokq;g‘bragklotgnrirksagrlguhbularkl:

ggggggggggggggggggg“LvzzvagubgxulsagVUvir,
ggggggggggggggggggggUbgwsxlvbvgavizkg.uoovgas.gRork
ggggggggggggggggggggEskgImrsfgwzubrkgiv sf
ggggggggggggggggggggFuziufsz,gesragvesvfgbufwuzubgrxlr.sa,
ggggggggggggggggggggEskgwzvu.ulbug kfsf,gubgeskbv,
ggggggggggggggggggggWuorxlragivzuvfgpzrxkzr.sa,gbviuaj”

ggggg[“Tksgbuoogsagoklxgabkzruagv.ksbgbmugzviugkpgVUvisa,gvl gbmug.vbboua
gggggpksxmbgsl uzgavizu gRorsf;g.sbgqmvbgbkgxrnugpkzgvgivacgkpgImrvl
gggggqrlu,gqmkgamvoogwzuwvzugbmugqvzfg.vbm,gvl grlgqmkaugmksau,gvl gqmul
gggggRgfvtguaivwugpzkfgbmugWuorxlrvlgiko ,gtksg kglkbgbuoogsaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg19,g3j]

Bmsa,gvagbmugOviu vufklrvlgnvokszgabkk grlgluu gkpgfk uzvbrkl,gvl gkpgbmu
aquubgvl gmvzfklrksagaksl gkpgposbuagbkgakpbulgrbgrlg.vbbou,gouabgbmut
amkso gwzuirwrbvbugbmufauonuagrlbkgbufuzrbtgvl gpszt,gqmuzuvagvoogkbmuz
lvbrklagikffklotgfvcugsaugkpgmvzamgvl gamzroogaksl a,gvl gkpgoks gvl 
rfwuzrksagizrua,gbkgrlirbugvl gmuvbgbmugako ruz’agikszvxugbkgbmugovab
 uxzuu;gak,gfubmrlca,giklbzvztgbkgbmugsasvogfubmk ,grlgbmugwzvibriugkp
kszgfrl a,gqugmvnugpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgfkzugluu gkpgouv gbmvlgkpgqrlxa;gkp
bufwuzvliugvl gikfwkau luaagbmvlgkpgvz kszgvl gvxrbvbrkljgg.sb,gv.knugvoo
bmrlxa,g‘bragrlgftgkwrlrklguxzuxrksaotgbkgwovtgbmugpkko,gbkgwsbgklgbmu
xzvnugvrzagkpgvgfvlgkpgokpbtgfrl gvfklxabgbmkaugqmkgvzuglkbmrlxgkpgbmu
akzb:gunuzgbkgawuvcgrlgwzrlbg(.tgbmug.kkc),

gggggggggggggggggggg“Pvnuoovzugrlgwsfvg rgpkzimubbvj”

gggggggggg[“Bkgbvocgqrbmgbmugwkrlbgkpgvgpkzc,”g(vppuibu ot)]

Tksgfsabgoubgtkszauopg kqlgbkgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgtksgiklnuzau;gvl gakfubrfua
vppuibgrxlkzvliu:govtgvar ugwkquzgvl gas.brobtgrlgikffklgiklnuzavbrkl;gbk
wzuauznug uikzsfgvl gkz uzg‘bragulksxm-lvt,gizvqogklgbmuguvzbm,grpgbmut
akg uarzugrbj

Bmugouvzlu gkpbulgabsf.ougvbgbmragabklu;gbmutgqroogvoqvtag.ugwvzv rlx
bmurzgwu vlbrigairuliu,gvl gabzuqgbmurzg.kkcagunuztqmuzu;gbmutgmvnu,grl
bmuaug vta,gakgproou gbmugiv.rlubagvl guvzagkpgbmugov ruagqrbmgbmuf,gbmvb
rpgbmutgmvnugokabgbmugas.abvliu,gbmutgvbgouvabgzubvrlgbmugqkz a;gakgvagrl
voog raikszaugswklgvoogakzbagkpgas.yuiba,gmkqgfuvlgvl gikffklgakunuz,
bmutgawuvcgvl gqzrbugvpbuzgvgluqgvl gouvzlu gqvt,

ggggggggg“Mkigauzfklugwvnulb,gmkigrzvf,gxvs rv,giszva,
ggggggggggMkigislibvguppsl slbgvlrfrgauizubv;gesr gsobzv?
ggggggggggIklisf.slbg kibu;”

ggggg[“Rlgbmragovlxsvxug kgbmutguhwzuaagbmurzgpuvza,gbmurzgvlxuz,gbmurz
gggggykta,gbmurzgivzua;grlgbmragwkszgksbgvoogbmurzgauizuba;gqmvbgfkzu?
gggggbmutgorugqrbmgbmurzgoknuzagouvzlu otj”--Ysnulvo,gnrjg189j]

vl geskbugWovbkgvl gVesrlvagrlgbmrlxagbmugprzabgfvlgbmutgfuubgikso 
 ubuzfrlugvagquoo;gbmugouvzlrlxgbmvbgivllkbgwulubzvbugbmurzgaksoagmvlxa
abroogswklgbmugbklxsujgRpgwukwougkpgesvorbtgqroog.ugwuzasv u g.tgfu,gbmut
amvoogiklbulbgbmufauonuagqrbmgaubbrlxgksbgbmurzgwzkwuzgvl glvbszvo
bzuvaszua;gbmutgikliuvogvl giknuzgbmurzg.uvsbruagsl uzgkbmuzagbmvbgvzu
lklugkpgbmurza:g‘bragvgxzuvbgpkootgbkgwsbgksbgbmurzgkqlgorxmbgvl gamrlu
.tgvg.kzzkqu gosabzu:gbmutgvzugrlbuzzu gvl g.szru gsl uzg‘ ugivwasov
bkbvu”--[Wvrlbu gvl gwuzpsfu gpzkfgmuv gbkgpkkbj”g(Kz:)g“vagrpgbmutgquzu
bmrlxagivzupsootg uwkarbu grlgvg.vl -.khj”--Auluiv,gUwjg115]--Rbgra
.uivsaugbmutg kglkbgaspprirulbotgclkqgbmufauonuagkzg kgbmufauonua
ysabriu:gbmugqkzo gmvaglkbmrlxgpvrzuzgbmvlgbmut;g‘bragpkzgbmufgbkgmklksz
bmugvzba,gvl gbkgwvrlbgwvrlbrlxjggQmvbgluu gmvnugbmutgkpgvltbmrlxg.sbgbk
ornug.uoknu gvl gmklkszu ?ggBmutgmvnugvl gclkqg.sbgbkkgfsimgpkzgbmra:
bmutgluu g kglkgfkzug.sbgzksaugvl gmuvbgvgorbbougbmugpvisobruagbmutgmvnu
kpgbmurzgkqljggQmulgRgauugbmufgbvfwuzrlxgqrbmgzmubkzri,govq,gokxri,gvl 
kbmuzg zsxa,gakgrfwzkwuzgvl gslluiuaavztgpkzgbmurzg.sarluaa,gRg.uxrlgbk
asawuibgbmvbgbmugfulgqmkgrlawrzugbmufgqrbmgasimgpvlirua,g kgrbgbmvbgbmut
fvtgxknuzlgbmufgswklgbmvbgviikslb;gpkzgqmvbgkbmuzguhisaugivlgRgiklbzrnu?
Rbgragulksxmgbmvbgbmutgivl,gqrbmksbgkszgrlabzsibrkl,gikfwkaugbmugxzviua
kpgbmurzgutuagbkgxvrubt,gaunuzrbt,gaquubluaa,gvl gauvaklgvg ulrvogqrbm
vawuzrbt,gasawulau,gkzgpvnksz:ggbmutgluu glkbgvlkbmuzgbkgrlbuzwzubgqmvb
qugawuvcgpkzgbmurzgauznriu;gqrbmgbmragclkqou xu,gbmutgikffvl gqrbmgv
aqrbim,gvl gzsoug.kbmgbmugbsbkzagvl gbmugaimkkoajgg.sbgrp,glunuzbmuouaa,
rbgvlxuzagbmufgbkgxrnugwoviugbkgsagrlgvltbmrlxgqmvbunuz,gvl gqroo,gksbgkp
iszrkarbt,gmvnugbmurzgamvzugrlg.kkca,gwkubztgragvg rnuzarklgwzkwuzgpkz
bmuf;g‘bragvgqvlbkl,gas.bou,g raauf.orlx,gvl gwzvbrlxgvzb,gvoogwouvaszu
vl gvoogamkq,gorcugbmufauonuajggBmutgfvtgvoakgv.abzvibgaunuzvo
ikffk rbruagpzkfgmrabkztjggRlgwmrokakwmt,gksbgkpgbmugfkzvogwvzbgkpgrb,
bmutgfvtgauouibgasimgrlabzsibrklagvagqroogbuvimgbmufgbkgys xugkpgksz
msfkszagvl gikl rbrkla,gbkg upul gbmufauonuagpzkfgkszgbzuvimuzrua,gbk
zuxsovbugbmugvz kszgkpgbmurzgkqlg uarzua,gbkgfvlvxugbmurzgor.uzbt,gbk
oulxbmulgbmugwouvaszuagkpgorpu,gvl gxulbotgbkg.uvzgbmugrliklabvlitgkpgv
oknuz,gbmugzs uluaagkpgvgmsa.vl ;gvl gbmugrfwkzbslrbtgkpgtuvza,gqzrlcoua,
vl gbmugorcujggBmragragbmugsbfkabgkpgqmvbgRgqkso gvookqgbmufgrlgbmu
airuliuaj

Bmuzugvzugakfugwvzbrisovzglvbszuagbmvbgvzugwzrnvbugvl gzubrzu :gft
lvbszvogqvtgragwzkwuzgpkzgikffslrivbrkl,gvl gvwbgbkgovtgfugkwul;gRgvfgvoo
qrbmksbgvl grlgarxmb,g.kzlgpkzgakirubtgvl gpzrul amrwjggBmugakorbs ugbmvb
Rgoknugftauopgvl gzuikfful gbkgkbmuza,gragimrupotglkgkbmuzgbmvlgbk
qrbm zvqgftgbmksxmbagvl gvppuibrklagrlbkgftauop;gbkgzuabzvrlgvl gimuic,
lkbgftgabuwa,g.sbgftgkqlgivzuagvl g uarzua,gzuarxlrlxgvoogpkzurxl
akorirbs u,gvl gfkzbvootgvnkr rlxgauznrbs ugvl gk.orxvbrkl,gvl glkbgak
fsimgbmugizkq gkpgfulgvagbmugizkq gkpg.sarluaajggOkivogakorbs u,gbkgavt
bmugbzsbm,gzvbmuzgxrnuagfugfkzugzkkfgvl gaubagfugfkzugvbgovzxu;gRgfkzu
zuv rotgbmzkqgftauopgswklgvppvrzagkpgabvbugvl gbmugqkzo gqmulgRgvfgvokluj
VbgbmugOksnzugvl grlgbmug.sabougkpgbmugikszb,gRgpko gftauopgqrbmrlgftgkql
acrl;gbmugizkq gbmzsabagfugswklgftauop;gvl gRglunuzgulbuzbvrlgftauopgak
qvlbklot,gqrbmgakgfsimgoriuliu,gkzgakguawuirvoot,gvagrlgwoviuagkpgzuawuib
vl giuzufklrksagwzs uliu:gkszgpkooruag kglkbgfvcugfugovsxm,grbgragksz
qra kfgqmrimg kuajggRgvfglvbszvootglkguluftgbkgvgikszb,gorpu;gRgmvnu
bmuzurlgwvaau gvgwvzbgkpgftgkql,gvl gvfgkpgvgmsfkszgimuuzpsootgbk
pzuesulbgxzuvbgikfwvlt,gwzknr u grbg.ug.tgrlbuznvoagvl gvbgftgkqlgbrfu:
.sbgbmragakpbluaagkpgys xfulbgqmuzukpgRgawuvcgbruagfugwuzpkziugbk
akorbs ujggUnulgvbgmkfu,gvfr abgvglsfuzksagpvfrot,gvl grlgvgmksau
aspprirulbotgpzuesulbu ,gRgauugwukwougulksxm,g.sbgzvzuotgasimgqrbmgqmkfgR
 uorxmbgbkgiklnuzau;gvl gRgbmuzugzuauznug.kbmgpkzgftauopgvl gkbmuzagvl
slsasvogor.uzbt:gbmuzugragrlgftgmksauglkgasimgbmrlxgvagiuzufklt,
samuzrlx,gkzgqvrbrlxgswklgwukwoug kqlgbkgbmugikvim,gvl gasimgkbmuz
bzks.ouakfugiuzufklruagvagkszgikszbuatgulykrlag(Kgbmugauznrougvl 
rfwkzbslvbugisabkf!)jggUnuztgklugbmuzugxknuzlagmrfauopgviikz rlxgbkgmra
kqlgfubmk ;goubgqmkgqroogawuvcgmragbmksxmba,gRgarbgfsbu,gfu rbvbrlxgvl 
amsbgswgrlgftgiokaub,gqrbmksbgvltgkppuliugbkgftgxsuabaj

Bmugfulgqmkaugakirubtgvl gpvfrorvzrbtgRgiknubgvzugbmkaugbmutgivoogarliuzu
vl gv.ougful;gvl gbmugrfvxugkpgbmuaugfvcuagfug razuoramgbmugzuabjggRbgra,
rpgzrxmbotgbvcul,gbmugzvzuabgkpgkszgpkzfa,gvl gvgpkzfgbmvbgqugimrupotgkqu
bkglvbszujggBmugul gkpgbmragikffuziugragarfwotgwzrnvit,gpzuesulbvbrklgvl 
iklpuzuliu,gbmuguhuziraugkpgaksoa,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgpzsrbjggRlgksz
 raikszau,gvoogas.yuibagvzugvorcugbkgfu;goubgbmuzug.uglurbmuzgqurxmb,glkz
 uwbm,g‘bragvoogklu:gbmuzugragtubgxzviugvl gwuzbrlulit;gvoogbmuzugra
brlbu gqrbmgvgfvbszugvl giklabvlbgys xfulb,gvl gfrhu gqrbmgxkk luaa,
pzuu kf,gxvrubt,gvl gpzrul amrwjgg‘Braglkbgklotgrlgbvocrlxgkpgbmugvppvrza
kpgcrlxagvl gabvbugbmvbgkszgqrbag raiknuzgbmurzgpkziugvl g.uvsbt,g.sb
unuztgqmrbgvagfsimgrlgwzrnvbugiklpuzuliuajggRgsl uzabvl gftgfulgunulg.t
bmurzgarouliugvl gafroua;gvl g.ubbuzg raiknuzgbmuf,gwuzmvwa,gvbgbv.ou
bmvlgrlgbmugikslirojggMrwwkfvimsagavr ,gnuztgquoo,g“bmvbgmugikso gclkq
bmugxkk gqzuabouzag.tgklotgauurlxgbmufgqvocgrlgbmugabzuubj”ggRpgouvzlrlx
wouvaugbkgabuwgrlbkgkszgbvoc,grbgamvooglkbg.ugzuyuibu ,glkbgfvxrabuzrvo,
rfwuzrksa,gvl grfwkzbslvbu,gva-rbgikffklotgra,g.sbgasppzvxvlgvl g kirou
rbauop;gqugbmuzugklotgauucgbkgwvaagvqvtgkszgbrfu;gqmulgqugmvnugvgfrl gbk
.ugrlabzsibu gvl gwzuvimu gbk,gqugqroogxkgauucgbmragrlgrbagbmzklu;gwouvau
oubgrbgmsf.ougrbauopgbkgsagpkzgbmuglkliu;gpkz,gsaupsogvl gwzkprbv.ougva
rbgra,gRgrfvxrlugbmvb,gvbgluu ,gqugfvtgfvlvxugquoogulksxmgqrbmksbgrb,gvl 
 kgkszg.sarluaagqrbmksbgrbagvaarabvliujggVgquoo- uaiul u gakso,gvl 
wzvibrau grlgbmugiklnuzavbrklgkpgful,gqroogkpgmuzauopgzul uzgmuzauop
aspprirulbotgvxzuuv.ou;gvzbgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugikslbuzwvzbgvl gzuxrabuz
kpgqmvbgasimgaksoagwzk siuj

Bmugiklnuzavbrklgvoakgkpg.uvsbrpsogvl gmklkszv.ougqkfulgragpkzgfugvgaquub
ikffuziu:

ggggggggggggggg“Lvfglkageskesugkisokaguzs rbkagmv.ufsaj”

ggggg[“Pkzgqugvoakgmvnugutuagbmvbgvzugnuzau grlgbmugfvbbuzj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gWvzv kh,gnjg2j]

Rpgbmugaksogmvaglkbgbmuzurlgakgfsimgbkgulykt,gvagrlgbmugprzabgbmug.k rot
aulaua,gqmrimgwvzbrirwvbugfkzugkpgbmra,g.zrlxgrbgbkgvgwzkwkzbrklgluhbgbk,
bmksxm,grlgftgkwrlrkl,glkbguesvogbkgbmugkbmuzjgg.sbg‘bragvgikffuziu
qmuzurlgvgfvlgfsabgabvl gvgorbbougswklgmragxsvz ,guawuirvootgbmkau,gqmuzu
bmug.k tgivlg kgfsim,gvagrlgfujggRgbmuzugaivo u gftauopgrlgftgtksbm,gvl 
asppuzu gvoogbmugbkzfulbagbmvbgwkubagavtg.upvoogbmkaugqmkgwzuirwrbvbu
bmufauonuagrlbkgoknugqrbmksbgkz uzgvl gys xfulbjggRbgragbzsugbmvbgbmvb
qmrwwrlxgmvagfv ugfugqrauzgarliu:

gggggggggggggg“EsrisfesugVzxkorivg ugiovaaugIvwmvzuvgpsxrb,
gggggggggggggggAufwuzgv.gUs.kriragnuovgzubkzesubgvesraj”

ggggg[“QmkunuzgkpgbmugXzuirvlgpouubgmvaguaivwu gbmugIvwmvzuvlgzkica,gunuz
gggggbvcuagivzugbkgabuuzgpzkfgbmugUs.kuvlgauvj”--Knr ,gBzrabj,grjgr,g83j]

‘Bragpkootgbkgprhgvoogvgfvl’agbmksxmbagswklgrb,gvl gbkgulxvxugrlgrbgqrbm
vgpszrksagvl grl raizuubgvppuibrkl;g.sb,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gbkgulxvxu
bmuzugqrbmksbgoknugvl gqrbmksbgrliorlvbrkl,gorcugikfu rvla,gbkgwovtgv
ikffklgwvzb,gqrbmksbgwsbbrlxgvltbmrlxgbkgrbgkpgmragkqlg.sbgqkz a,gra
rl uu gbkgwzknr ugpkzgmragavpubt,g.sb,gqrbmvo,gvpbuzgvagikqvz otgvgfvlluz
vagmugqmkgamkso gv.vl klgmragmklksz,gwzkprb,gkzgwouvaszugpkzgpuvzgkp
 vlxuzjggPkzgrbgragiuzbvrlgbmvbgpzkfgasimgvgwzvibriu,gbmutgqmkgaubgrbgkl
pkkbgivlguhwuibglkgpzsrbgbmvbgivlgwouvaugkzgavbraptgvglk.ougaksojggVgfvl
fsabgmvnu,grlgxkk guvzluab,g uarzu gbmvbgqmrimgmu,grlgxkk guvzluab,
uhwuibagbkgmvnugvgwouvaszugrlgulyktrlx;gRgavt,gbmksxmgpkzbslugamkso 
slysabotgpvnkszgbmurzg raarfsovbrkl;gqmrimgkpbulgpvooagksb,g.uivsaugbmuzu
raglklugkpgbmugauh,goubgmuzg.ugvagsxotgvagbmug unro,gqmkg kuaglkbgbmrlc
muzauopgquoogqkzbmtgbkg.ug.uoknu ,gvl gqmkg kuaglkbgwzupuzgmuzauopg.upkzu
kbmuzgqkful,gurbmuzgpkzgmuzgtksbm,gbmugikokszgkpgmuzgmvrz,gkzgmuz
xzviupsogfkbrklg(pkzgbmuzugvzuglkgfkzugqkfulgslrnuzavootgsxot,gbmvlgbmuzu
vzugqkfulgslrnuzavootg.uvsbrpso,gvl gasimgkpgbmug.zvmfrlgnrzxrlagvagmvnu
lkbmrlxguoaugbkgzuikfful gbmuf,gbmugwukwoug.urlxgvaauf.ou g.tgbmugikffkl
izruzgbkgbmvbguppuib,gikfugksbgrlbkgbmugfvzcub-woviugbkguhwkaugbmurz
fvbzrfklrvogwvzbagbkgws.orignruq,gbkgbztgrpgbmuaugvbgouvabgvzuglkbgkp
bufwbvbrklgaspprirulbgbkgxubgbmufgvgmsa.vl )jggIklauesulbot,gbmuzugraglkb
klugqmkg kuaglkbguvarotgasppuzgmuzauopgbkg.ugknuzikfug.tgbmugprzabgnkq
bmvbgbmutgfvcugbkgauznugmuzjggLkqgpzkfgbmragikffklgvl gkz rlvztgbzuvimuzt
kpgbmugfulgkpgbmugwzuaulbg vt,gbmvbgfsabgpvoogksbgqmrimgqugvozuv t
uhwuzrfulbvootgauu,gurbmuzgbmvbgbmutgzvootgbkxubmuz,gvl gauwvzvbu
bmufauonuag.tgbmufauonuagbkgunv ugsa,gkzguoaugpkzfgbmurzg rairworlug.t
bmuguhvfwougqugxrnugbmuf,gwovtgbmurzgwvzbagkpgbmugpvziugvagqug kgksza,
vl gxrnugbmufauonuagswgbkgbmugawkzb,gqrbmksbgwvaarkl,givzu,gkzgoknu;

gggggggggg“Luesugvpo’uibsrgask,gvsbgvorulk,gk.lkhrvu;”

ggggg[“Lurbmuzgvfulv.ougbkgbmurzgkqlgvppuibrkla,glkzgbmkaugkpgkbmuzaj”
gggggg--Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,ghrrrjg45j]

.uorunrlx,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwuzasvarklgkpgOtarvagrlgWovbk,gbmvbgbmutgfvt
qrbmgfkzugsbrorbtgvl giklnulruliugaszzul uzgbmufauonuagswgbkgsagbmugouaa
qugoknugbmuf;gqmuzugrbgqroogpvoogksb,gvagrlgikfu rua,gbmvbgbmugwukwou
qroogmvnugvagfsimgwouvaszugkzgfkzugbmvlgbmugikfu rvlajggPkzgftgwvzb,
Rglkgfkzugviclkqou xugvgNulsagqrbmksbgvgIswr gbmvl,gvgfkbmuzgqrbmksb
raasu:gbmutgvzugbmrlxagbmvbgfsbsootgoul gvl gkqugbmurzguaauliugbkgklu
vlkbmuzjggBmsagbmragimuvbgzuikroagswklgmrfgqmkgragxsrobtgkpgrb;grbg kua
lkbgikabgmrfgfsim,grl uu ,g.sbgmugvoakgxubagorbbougkzglkbmrlxg.tgrbj
Bmutgqmkgmvnugfv ugNulsagvgxk  uaagmvnugbvculglkbriugbmvbgmuzgwzrlirwvo
.uvsbtgqvagrlikzwkzuvogvl gawrzrbsvo;g.sbgbmugNulsagqmkfgbmuaugwukwou
mslbgvpbuzgraglkbgakgfsimgvagmsfvl,glkzgrl uu g.zsbvo;gbmugnuztg.uvaba
qrooglkbgviiuwbgrbgakgxzkaagvl gakguvzbmot;gqugauugbmvbgrfvxrlvbrklgvl 
 uarzugkpbulgmuvbgvl grlirbugbmufg.upkzugbmug.k tg kua;gqugauugrlg.kbm
bmugklugauhgvl gbmugkbmuz,gbmutgmvnugrlgbmugmuz gimkriugvl gwvzbrisovz
uouibrklgrlgbmurzgvppuibrkla,gvl gbmvbgbmutgmvnugvfklxabgbmufauonuagv
oklxgikffuziugkpgxkk gqroojggUnulgbmkaugbkgqmkfgko gvxug ulruagbmu
wzvibriugkpgbmurzg uarzu,gabroogbzuf.ou,glurxm,gvl gbqrbbuzgpkzgoknu;gqu
auugbmuf,g.upkzugbmugvib,gpsoogkpgmkwugvl gvz ksz,gvl gqmulgbmug.k tgmva
wovtu grbagxvfu,gtubgwouvaugbmufauonuagqrbmgbmugaquubgzufuf.zvliugkpgbmu
wvabg uorxmb;gakfugbmvbgaquoogqrbmgwzr ugvpbuzgbmutgmvnugwuzpkzfu ,gvl 
kbmuzagqmk,gbrzu gvl gavbu ,gabroog.tgnkirpuzvbrklguhwzuaagvgbzrsfwmrlx
yktjggMugqmkgmvaglkbmrlxgbkg kg.sbgklotgbkg raimvzxugmrag.k tgkpgv
lvbszvogluiuaarbt,gluu glkbgbzks.ougkbmuzagqrbmgakgiszrksagwzuwvzvbrkla:
rbgraglkbgfuvbgpkzgvgxzkaa,gikvzaugvwwubrbuj

Vagklugqmkg kuaglkbg uarzugbmvbgfulgamkso gbmrlcgfug.ubbuzgbmvlgRgvf,
RgqroogmuzugavtgbmragvagbkgbmuguzzkzagkpgftgtksbmjggLkbgklotgpzkfgbmu
 vlxuzgkpgrfwvrzrlxgftgmuvobmg(vl gtubgRgikso glkbg.ugakgivzupsog.sbgbmvb
Rgmv gbqkgorxmbgfraimvliua),g.sbgfkzuknuzgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgiklbufwb,
Rgmvnugauo kfgxrnulgftauopgswgbkgikffklgvl gfuziulvztguf.zviua:gRgqkso 
murxmbulgbmugwouvaszug.tgbmug rpprisobt,g.tg uarzu,gvl gvgiuzbvrlgcrl gkp
xokzt,gvl gqvagkpgBr.uzrsa’agfrl ,gqmkgrlgmragvfkszagqvagvagfsimgbvcul
qrbmgfk uabtgvl g.rzbmgvagvltgkbmuzgesvorbt,gvl gkpgbmugikszbuavlgPokzv’a
msfksz,gqmkglunuzgoulbgmuzauopgbkgouaagbmvlgvg ribvbkz,gvgiklaso,gkzgv
iulakz,gvl gbkkcgwouvaszugrlgbmug rxlrbtgkpgmuzgoknuzajgg ks.bouaagwuvzoa
vl gxko gbraasu,gbrbouagvl gbzvrl,gv  gakfubmrlxgbkgrbj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgmv gvgxzuvbguabuufgpkzgqrb,gwzknr u gbmugwuzaklgqvaglkb
uhiuwbrklv.ou;gpkz,gbkgiklpuaagbmugbzsbm,grpgbmugklugkzgbmugkbmuzgkp
bmuaugbqkgvbbzvibrklagfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugqvlbrlx,gRgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnu
esrbbu gbmvbgkpgbmugsl uzabvl rlx,gbmvbgmvagrbagsaugrlg.ubbuzgbmrlxa;
.sbgrlgbmugas.yuibgkpgoknu,gvgas.yuibgwzrlirwvootgzuovbrlxgbkgbmugaulaua
kpgauurlxgvl gbksimrlx,gakfubmrlxgfvtg.ug klugqrbmksbgbmugxzviuagkpgbmu
frl :gqrbmksbgbmugxzviuagkpgbmug.k t,glkbmrlxjgg.uvsbtgragbmugbzsu
wzuzkxvbrnugkpgqkful,gvl gakgwuisorvzotgbmurzgkql,gbmvbgksza,gbmksxm
lvbszvootgzuesrzrlxgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgpuvbszu,graglunuzgrlgrbagosabzug.sb
qmulgtksbmpsogvl g.uvz ouaa,gvgakzbgkpgiklpsau grfvxugkpgbmurzajgg‘Bra
avr gbmvbgasimgvagauznugbmugXzvl gArxlrkzgswklgbmugviikslbgkpg.uvsbt,gqmk
vzugvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uz,gvzu,gvbgbmugovbuab,g rafraau gvbgbqk-vl -bqulbt
tuvzagkpgvxujggZuvakl,gwzs uliu,gvl gbmugkppriuagkpgpzrul amrwgvzug.ubbuz
pksl gvfklxabgful,gvl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgbmutgxknuzlgbmugvppvrzagkp
bmugqkzo j

Bmuaugbqkgulxvxufulbagvzugpkzbsrbksa,gvl g uwul rlxgswklgkbmuza;gbmugklu
ragbzks.ouakfug.tgrbagzvzrbt,gbmugkbmuzgqrbmuzagqrbmgvxu,gakgbmvbgbmut
ikso glunuzgmvnug.uulgaspprirulbgpkzgbmug.sarluaagkpgftgorpujggBmvbgkp
.kkca,gqmrimgragbmugbmrz ,gragfsimgfkzugiuzbvrl,gvl gfsimgfkzugkszgkqlj
Rbgtruo agvoogkbmuzgv nvlbvxuagbkgbmugbqkgprzab,g.sbgmvagbmugiklabvlit
vl gpvirorbtgkpgrbagauznriugpkzgrbagkqlgamvzujggRbgxkuagar ug.tgar ugqrbm
fugrlgftgqmkougikszau,gvl gunuztqmuzugragvaarabrlxgfu:grbgikfpkzbagfugrl
ko gvxugvl gakorbs u;grbguvauagfugkpgvgbzks.ouakfugqurxmbgkpgr ouluaa,
vl g uornuzagfugvbgvoogmkszagpzkfgikfwvltgbmvbgRg raorcu:grbg.oslbagbmu
wkrlbgkpgxzrupa,grpgbmutgvzuglkbguhbzufu,gvl gmvnuglkbgxkbgvlgulbrzu
wkaauaarklgkpgftgaksojggBkg rnuzbgftauopgpzkfgvgbzks.ouakfugpvlit,g‘bra
.sbgbkgzslgbkgftg.kkca;gbmutgwzuaulbotgprhgfugbkgbmufgvl g zrnugbmugkbmuz
ksbgkpgftgbmksxmba,gvl g kglkbgfsbrltgvbgauurlxgbmvbgRgmvnugklotgzuikszau
bkgbmufgpkzgqvlbgkpgkbmuzgfkzugzuvo,glvbszvo,gvl gornuotgikffk rbrua;
bmutgvoqvtagzuiurnugfugqrbmgbmugavfugcrl luaajggMugfvtgquoogxkgvgpkkb,
bmutgavt,gqmkgouv agmragmkzaugrlgmragmvl ;gvl gkszgYvfua,gCrlxgkpgLvwoua
vl gArirot,gqmk,gmvl akfu,gtkslxgvl gmuvobmpso,givsau gmrfauopgbkg.u
ivzzru gv.ksbgklgvg.vzzkq,guhbul u gswklgvgwrbrpsogfvbbzuaagrlgvgwkkz
zk.ugkpgxzutgiokbm,gvl gvgivwgkpgbmugavfu,gtubgvbbul u gqrbmvog.tgvgzktvo
bzvrl,gorbbuza,gou gmkzauagkpgvoogakzba,gxulboufulgvl gkppriuza,g r gtub
muzurlgzuwzuaulbgvgbul uzgvl gslabuv tgvsbmkzrbt:g“Bmugaricgfvlgmvaglkb
bkgikfwovrlgqmkgmvagmragiszugrlgmragaouunuj”ggRlgbmuguhwuzruliugvl 
wzvibriugkpgbmragfvhrf,gqmrimgragvgnuztgbzsugklu,giklarabagvoogbmu
.uluprbgRgzuvwgpzkfg.kkcajggVagvgfvbbuzgkpgpvib,gRgfvcuglkgfkzugsaugkp
bmuf,gvagrbgquzu,gbmvlgbmkaugqmkgclkqgbmufglkbjggRgulyktgbmufgvagfrauza
 kgbmurzgfklut,grlgclkqrlxgbmvbgRgfvtgulyktgbmufgqmulgRgwouvau:gftgfrl 
ragavbrapru gqrbmgbmragzrxmbgkpgwkaauaarkljggRglunuzgbzvnuogqrbmksb
.kkca,gurbmuzgrlgwuviugkzgqvz;gvl gtubgakfubrfuagRgwvaagknuzgaunuzvo
 vta,gvl gakfubrfuagfklbma,gqrbmksbgokkcrlxgklgbmufjggRgqroogzuv 
.t-vl -.t,gavtgRgbkgftauop,gkzgbk-fkzzkq,gkzgqmulgRgwouvau;gvl grlgbmu
rlbuzrf,gbrfugabuvoagvqvtgqrbmksbgvltgrliklnulruliujggPkzgrbgraglkbgbkg.u
rfvxrlu gbkgqmvbg uxzuugRgwouvaugftauopgvl gzuabgiklbulbgrlgbmra
iklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgRgmvnugbmufg.tgfugbkg rnuzbgftauopgqrbmgbmufgqmulgR
vfgakg rawkau ,gvl gbkgivoogbkgfrl gqmvbgvgzupzuamfulbgbmutgvzugbkgft
orpujgg‘Bragbmug.uabgnrvbrisfgRgmvnugtubgpksl gksbgpkzgbmragmsfvl
ykszlut,gvl gRgnuztgfsimgwrbtgbmkaugfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgqmkgvzu
slwzknr u gkpgrbjggRgbmugzvbmuzgviiuwbgkpgvltgkbmuzgakzbgkpg rnuzarkl,
mkqgorxmbgakunuz,g.uivsaugbmragivlglunuzgpvrogfuj

Qmulgvbgmkfu,gRgvgorbbougfkzugpzuesulbgftgor.zvzt,gqmuliugRgknuzokkcgvb
kliugvoogbmugikliuzlagkpgftgpvfrotjgg‘Bragarbsvbu gvbgbmugulbzvliugrlbk
ftgmksau,gvl gRgbmuliugauugsl uzgfugftgxvz ul,gikszb,gvl g.vau-ikszb,gvl 
vofkabgvoogwvzbagkpgbmug.sro rlxjggBmuzugRgbszlgknuzglkqgklug.kkc,gvl 
bmulgvlkbmuz,gklgnvzrksagas.yuiba,gqrbmksbgfubmk gkzg uarxljggKlugqmrou
Rgfu rbvbu,gvlkbmuzgRgzuikz gvl g ribvbu,gvagRgqvocgbkgvl gpzk,gasim
qmrfaruagvagbmuaugRgwzuaulbgbkgtksgmuzujgg‘Bragrlgbmugbmrz gabkzutgkpgv
bkquz,gkpgqmrimgbmugxzksl -zkkfgragftgimvwuo,gbmugauikl gabkzutgvgimvf.uz
qrbmgvgqrbm zvqrlx-zkkfgvl giokaub,gqmuzugRgkpbulgoru,gbkg.ugfkzu
zubrzu ;gvl gv.knugragvgxzuvbgqvz zk.ujggBmragpkzfuzotgqvagbmugfkab
sauouaagwvzbgkpgbmugmksaujggRgbmuzugwvaagvqvtg.kbmgfkabgkpgbmug vtagkpgft
orpugvl gfkabgkpgbmugmkszagkpgbmkaug vtajggRlgbmuglrxmbgRgvfglunuzgbmuzuj
Bmuzugrag.tgbmugar ugkpgrbgvgiv.rlubgmvl akfugulksxm,gqrbmgvgprzuwoviu
nuztgikffk rksaotgiklbzrnu ,gvl gwoulbtgkpgorxmb;gvl gquzugRglkbgfkzu
vpzvr gkpgbmugbzks.ougbmvlgbmuguhwulau--bmugbzks.ougbmvbgpzrxmbagfugpzkf
voog.sarluaa--Rgikso gnuztguvarotgv ykrlgklgurbmuzgar u,gvl gklgbmugavfu
pokkz,gvgxvoouztgkpgvlgmsl zu gwviuagoklxgvl gbquonug.zkv ,gmvnrlxgpksl 
qvooagvozuv tgzvrau gpkzgakfugkbmuzg uarxlgbkgbmugzuesrarbugmurxmbj
Unuztgwoviugkpgzubrzufulbgzuesrzuagvgqvoc:gftgbmksxmbagaouuwgrpgRgarb
abroo:gftgpvlitg kuaglkbgxkg.tgrbauop,gvagqmulgftgouxagfknugrb:gvl gvoo
bmkaugqmkgabs tgqrbmksbgvg.kkcgvzugrlgbmugavfugikl rbrkljggBmugprxszugkp
ftgabs tgragzksl ,gvl gbmuzugraglkgfkzugkwulgqvoogbmvlgqmvbgragbvculgsw
.tgftgbv.ougvl gftgimvrz,gakgbmvbgbmugzufvrlrlxgwvzbagkpgbmugirziou
wzuaulbgfugvgnruqgkpgvoogftg.kkcagvbgkliu,gzvlxu gswklgprnugzkqagkp
amuonuagzksl gv.ksbgfujggRbgmvagbmzuuglk.ougvl gpzuugwzkawuiba,gvl gra
arhbuulgwviuagrlg rvfubuzjggRgvfglkbgakgiklbrlsvootgbmuzugrlgqrlbuz;gpkz
ftgmksaugrag.srobgswklgvlgufrluliu,gvagrbaglvfugrfwkzba,gvl glkgwvzbgkp
rbgragakgfsimguhwkau gbkgbmugqrl gvl gquvbmuzgvagbmra,gqmrimgwouvauagfu
bmug.ubbuz,gvag.urlxgkpgfkzug rpprisobgviiuaagvl gvgorbbougzufkbu,gva
quoogswklgbmugviikslbgkpguhuzirau,gvagvoakg.urlxgbmuzugfkzugzubrzu gpzkf
bmugizkq jgg‘BragbmuzugbmvbgRgvfgrlgftgcrlx kf,gvl gbmuzugRgul uvnkszgbk
fvcugftauopgvlgv.akosbugfklvzim,gvl gbkgauesuabuzgbmragklugikzluzgpzkf
voogakirubt,giklysxvo,gprorvo,gvl girnro;guoauqmuzugRgmvnug.sbgnuz.vo
vsbmkzrbtgklot,gvl gkpgvgiklpsau guaauliujggBmvbgfvl,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gra
nuztgfrauzv.ou,gqmkgmvaglkbgvbgmkfugqmuzugbkg.ug.tgmrfauop,gqmuzugbk
ulbuzbvrlgmrfauopgvoklu,gkzgbkgikliuvogmrfauopgpzkfgkbmuzajggVf.rbrkl
aspprirulbotgwovxsuagmuzgwzkauotbua,g.tgcuuwrlxgbmufgvoqvtagrlgamkq,gorcu
bmugabvbsugkpgvgws.ori,gaesvzu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Fvxlvgauznrbsaguabgfvxlvgpkzbslvj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Vgxzuvbgpkzbslugragvgxzuvbgaovnuztj”
gggggggggggggggg--Auluiv,g ugIklakojgv jggWkot.j,gijgg26j]

Bmutgivllkbgakgfsimgvag.ugwzrnvbugrlgbmugqvbuziokaubjggRgmvnugbmksxmb
lkbmrlxgakgaunuzugrlgbmugvsabuzrbtgkpgorpugbmvbgkszgfklcagvppuib,gvagqmvb
Rgmvnugk.auznu grlgakfugkpgbmurzgikffslrbrua;glvfuot,g.tgzsou,gbkgmvnugv
wuzwubsvogakirubtgkpgwoviu,gvl glsfuzksagwuzaklagwzuaulbgrlgunuztgvibrkl
qmvbunuz;gvl gbmrlcgrbgfsimgfkzugaswwkzbv.ougbkg.ugvoqvtagvoklugbmvl
lunuzgbkg.ugakj

Rpgvltgklugamvoogbuoogfugbmvbgrbgragbkgsl uznvosugbmugFsauagbkgfvcugsau
kpgbmufgklotgpkzgawkzbgvl gbkgwvaagvqvtgbmugbrfu,gRgamvoogbuoogmrf,gbmvb
mug kuaglkbgclkqgakgquoogvagRgbmugnvosugkpgbmugawkzb,gbmugwouvaszu,gvl 
bmugwvabrfu;gRgivlgmvz otgpkz.uvzgbkgv  gbmvbgvoogkbmuzgul gra
zr risoksajggRgornugpzkfg vtgbkg vt,gvl ,gqrbmgzunuzuliug.ugrbgawkcul,gR
klotgornugpkzgftauop;gbmuzugvoogftg uarxlagbuzfrlvbujggRgabs ru ,gqmul
tkslx,gpkzgkabulbvbrkl;garliu,gbkgfvcugftauopgvgorbbougqrauz;gvl glkqgpkz
ftg rnuzarkl,g.sbglunuzgpkzgvltgwzkprbjggVgnvrlgvl gwzk rxvogmsfkszgRgmv 
vpbuzgbmragakzbgkpgpszlrbszu,glkbgklotgpkzgbmugaswwotrlxgftgkqlgluu ,
.sb,gfkzuknuz,gpkzgkzlvfulbgvl gksbqvz gamkq,gRgmvnugarliugesrbugiszu 
ftauopgkpj

.kkcagmvnugfvltgimvzfrlxgesvorbruagbkgasimgvagclkqgmkqgbkgimkkaugbmuf;
.sbgunuztgxkk gmvagrbagroo;g‘bragvgwouvaszugbmvbgraglkbgwszugvl giouvl,
lkgfkzugbmvlgkbmuza:grbgmvagrbagrliklnulruliua,gvl gxzuvbgkluagbkkjggBmu
aksogrl uu graguhuzirau gbmuzurl;g.sbgbmug.k t,gbmugivzugkpgqmrimgRgfsab
qrbmvoglunuzgluxouib,gzufvrlagrlgbmugfuvlbrfugqrbmksbgvibrkl,gvl gxzkqa
muvntgvl gakf.zujggRgclkqglkguhiuaagfkzugwzuys rirvogbkgfu,glkzgfkzugbk
.ugvnkr u grlgbmragftg uiorlrlxgvxuj

Bmuaugmvnug.uulgftgbmzuugpvnkszrbugvl gwvzbrisovzgkiiswvbrkla;gRgawuvc
lkbgkpgbmkaugRgkqugbkgbmugqkzo g.tgirnrogk.orxvbrklj




IMVWBUZgRNj

KPg RNUZARKL

Rgqvagkliugufwoktu grlgiklakorlxgvgov tgbzsotgvpporibu jggFkabgkpgbmurz
fkszlrlxagvzugvzbrprirvogvl giuzufklrksa:

ggggggggg“S.uzr.sagaufwuzgoviztfra,gaufwuzesugwvzvbra,
ggggggggggRlgabvbrklugas.vbesuguhwuibvlbr.sagroovf,
ggggggggggEskgys.uvbgfvlvzugfk kj”

ggggg[“Vgqkfvlgmvagunuzgvgpkslbvrlgkpgbuvzagzuv tgbkgxsamgswgqmulunuz
gggggamugzuesrzuagbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmufj”--Ysnulvo,gnrjg272j]

Vgfvlgxkuagbmugqzklxgqvtgbkgqkzcgqmulgmugkwwkauagbmragwvaarkl;gpkz
kwwkarbrklg kuag.sbgrzzrbvbugvl gfvcugbmufgfkzugk.abrlvbugrlgakzzkq;gbmu
unrograguhvawuzvbu g.tg raisaarkljggQugauu,grlgikffklg raikszau,gbmvb
qmvbgRgmvnugrl rppuzulbotgoubgpvoogpzkfgfu,grpgvltgklugbvcuagrbgswgbk
iklbzknuzbgrb,gRgysabrptgrbgqrbmgbmug.uabgvzxsfulbagRgmvnu;gvl gfsimgfkzu
vgbmrlxgqmuzurlgRgmv gvgzuvogrlbuzuabjggVl g.uar ua,grlgakg krlxgtks
ulbuzgzksxmotgswklgtkszgkwuzvbrkl;gqmuzuvagbmugprzabgv  zuaauagkpgv
wmtarirvlgbkgmragwvbrulbgamkso g.ugxzvirksa,gxvt,gvl gwouvarlx;glunuzg r 
vltgroo-okkcrlx,gfkzkaugwmtarirvlg kgvltbmrlxgbkgwszwkaujggKlgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbmul,gvgfvlgamkso ,gvbgbmugprzabgvwwzkvimua,gpvnkszgbmurzgxzrup
vl guhwzuaagakfugvwwzk.vbrklgkpgbmurzgakzzkqjgg.tgbmragrlbuoorxuliugtks
k.bvrlgizu rbgbkgwzkiuu gpszbmuz,gvl g.tgvgpvirougvl grlaular.ou
xzv vbrklgpvoogrlbkg raikszauagfkzugakor gvl gwzkwuzgpkzgbmurzgiszuj
R,gqmkaugvrfgrbgqvagwzrlirwvootgbkgxsoogbmugikfwvltgqmkgmv gbmurzgutua
prhu gswklgfu,gbkkcgrbgrlbkgftgmuv gklotgbkgwvoorvbugbmug rauvaujggVl 
rl uu gRgmvnugpksl g.tguhwuzruliugbmvbgRgmvnugvlgslosictgmvl grl
wuzasv rlxjggFtgvzxsfulbagvzugurbmuzgbkkgamvzwgvl g zt,gkzgwzuaau gbkk
zksxmot,gkzglkbgmkfugulksxmjggVpbuzgRgmv gakfugbrfugvwworu gftauopgbkgmuz
xzrup,gRg r glkbgvbbufwbgbkgiszugmuzg.tgabzklxgvl gornuotgzuvakla,gurbmuz
.uivsaugRgmv gbmufglkbgvbgmvl ,gkzg.uivsaugRgbmksxmbgbkg kgftg.sarluaa
.ubbuzgvlkbmuzgqvt;glurbmuzg r gRgfvcugimkriugkpgvltgkpgbmkaugfubmk agkp
iklakovbrklgqmrimgwmrokakwmtgwzuaizr.ua:gbmvbgqmvbgqugikfwovrlgkpgraglk
unro,gviikz rlxgbkgIouvlbmua;gbmvbgrbgragvgorxmbgunro,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
Wuzrwvbubria;gbmvbgbkg.ufkvlgklu’agauopgragvlgvibrklglurbmuzgikfful v.ou
lkzgysab,gviikz rlxgbkgImztarwwsa;glkzgbmragkpgUwriszsa,gfkzugasrbv.ougbk
ftgqvt,gkpgamrpbrlxgbmugbmksxmbagpzkfgvpporibrlxgbmrlxagbkgbmkaugbmvbgvzu
wouvarlx;glkzgfvcrlxgvg.sl ougkpgvoogbmuaugbkxubmuz,gbkgfvcugsaugkpgswkl
kiivarkl,gviikz rlxgbkgIriuzk;g.sb,gxulbotg.ul rlxgftg raikszau,gvl g.t
orbbougvl gorbboug rxzuaarlx,gakfubrfuagbkgas.yuibagluvzuz,gvl gakfubrfua
fkzugzufkbugpzkfgbmugwszwkau,gviikz rlxgvagamugqvagfkzugrlbulbgklgqmvbgR
avr ,gRgrfwuziuwbr.otgou gmuzgpzkfgbmvbgakzzkqpsogbmksxmb,gvl gcuwbgmuz
ivofgvl grlgxkk -msfkszgqmroabgRgiklbrlsu gbmuzujggRgmuzurlgfv ugsaugkp
 rnuzarkljggBmutgqmkgasiiuu u gfugrlgbmugavfugauznriug r glkb,gpkzgvoo
bmvb,gprl gvltgvful fulbgrlgmuz,gpkzgRgmv glkbgxklugbkgbmugzkkbj

R,gwuzv nulbszu,gfvtguoauqmuzugmvnugxovliu gswklgakfugakzbgkpgws.ori
 rnuzarkla;gvl gbmugwzvibriugkpgfrorbvztgklua,gqmrimgWuzriouagfv ugsaugkp
rlgbmugWuokwklluarvlgqvz,gvl gvgbmksavl gkbmuzagrlgkbmuzgwoviua,gbk
qrbm zvqgbmugv nuzaugpkziuagpzkfgbmurzgkqlgikslbzrua,gragbkkgpzuesulbgrl
mrabkztjggRbgqvagvlgrlxulrksagunvarklgqmuzu.tgFklaurxluszg ’Mufwzrikszb
avnu g.kbmgmrfauopgvl gkbmuzagrlgbmugirbtgkpgOruxu,grlbkgqmrimgbmug scu
kpg.szxsl t,gqmkgcuwbgrbg.uaruxu ,gmv gfv ugmrfgulbuzgbkguhuisbugbmu
vzbriouagkpgbmurzgwzkfrau gaszzul uz;gbmugwukwou,g.urlxgvaauf.ou g.t
lrxmbgbkgiklar uzgkpgrb,g.uxvlgbkgfsbrltgvxvrlabgbmugvxzuufulb,gvl 
aunuzvogkpgbmufgzuakonu gbkgpvoogswklgbmugikffraarkluza,gqmkfgbmutgmv grl
bmurzgwkquz;gmu,gpuuorlxgbmugxsabagkpgbmragprzabgwkwsovzgabkzf,gqmkgquzu
ikfrlxgbkgzsamgrlbkgmragok xrlxa,gas  ulotgaulbgksbgbkgbmufgbqkgkpgbmu
rlmv.rbvlbagkpgbmugirbtg(kpgqmkfgmugmv gakfugqrbmgmrf)gqrbmgluqgvl 
fro uzgbuzfagbkg.ugwzkwkau grlgbmurzgiksliro,gqmrimgmugmv gbmulgvl gbmuzu
iklbzrnu gpkzgmragluu :gBmuaugbqkg rnuzbu gbmugprzabgbufwuab,givzztrlx
.vicgbmugulzvxu gzv..ougbkgbmugbkql-mvoogbkgmuvzgvl giklar uzgkpgqmvb
bmutgmv gbkgavtjggBmug uor.uzvbrklgqvagamkzb;gvgauikl gabkzfgvzkaugva
nrkoulbgvagbmugkbmuz,gqmuzuswklgmug uawvbimu gpkszgluqgfu rvbkzagkpgbmu
avfugesvorbtgbkgfuubgbmuf,gwzkbuabrlxgbmvbgmugmv glkqg.ubbuzgikl rbrkla
bkgwzuaulbgbmufgqrbm,gvl gasimgvagqkso gxrnugbmufgv.akosbugavbrapvibrkl,
.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmugbsfsobgqvagkliugfkzugvwwuvau ,gvl gbmugwukwougvxvrl
bszlu g.vicgbkgbmugikliovnujggRlgprlu,g.tgbmrag rawulavbrklgkp
vfsaufulba,gklugvpbuzgvlkbmuz,g rnuzbrlxgbmurzgpsztgvl g raarwvbrlxgrbgrl
pzrnkoksagiklasobvbrkla,gmugovr grbgvbgovabgvaouuwgbroogbmug vtgvwwuvzu ,
qmrimgqvagmragwzrlirwvogul j

BmragkbmuzgabkztgbmvbgpkookqagragvoakgkpgbmugavfugivbuxkztjggVbvovlbv,gv
nrzxrlgkpguhiuoorlxg.uvsbtgvl gkpgqkl uzpsog rawkarbrklgkpg.k t,gbk
 raulxvxugmuzauopgpzkfgbmugizkq gkpgvgbmksavl gasrbkzagqmkgaksxmbgmuzgrl
fvzzrvxu,gfv ugbmragwzkwkarbrkl,gbmvbgamugqkso gviiuwbgkpgmrfgpkzgmuz
msa.vl gqmkgamkso guesvogmuzgrlgzsllrlx,gswklgikl rbrklgbmvbgbmutgqmk
pvrou gamkso gokaugbmurzgornuajggBmuzugquzugulksxmgqmkgbmksxmbgbmugwzrdu
nuztgquoogqkzbmgbmugmvdvz ,gvl gqmkgasppuzu gbmugizsuogwulvobtgkpgbmu
iklbzvibjggMrwwkfulua,gv.ksbgbkgfvcugbzrvogvpbuzgbmugzuab,gfv ugmra
v  zuaagbkgbmugxk  uaagkpgoknu,grfwokzrlxgmuzgvaarabvliu;gvl gamu,
xzvlbrlxgmragzuesuab,gxvnugmrfgbmzuugxko ulgvwwoua,gvl grlabzsibu gmrf
mkqgbkgsaugbmufjggBmugzviug.uxrllrlx,gvagMrwwkfuluagwuziurnu gmra
frabzuaagbkgwzuaagmvz gswgbkgmrf;gmu,gvagrbgquzug.tgimvliu,goubgpvoogklu
kpgbmuaugvwwoua;gbmugfvr ,gbvculgqrbmgbmug.uvsbtgkpgrb,gpvrou glkbgbk
abuwgksbgkpgmuzgqvtgbkgwricgrbgsw:

gggggggggggggg“K.abswsrbgNrzxk,glrbr resugiswr rlugwkfr
ggggggggggggggg uiorlvbgiszasa,gvszsfesugnkos.rougbkoorbj”

ggggg[“Bmugnrzxrl,gvabklramu gvl gvbbzvibu g.tgbmugxorbbuzrlxgvwwou,
gggggabkwagmuzgivzuuz,gvl gaurduagbmugzkoorlxgxko j”
gggggg--Knr ,gFubvfj,ghjg666j]

Mug r gbmugavfu,gqmulgmugavqgmragbrfu,g.tgbmugauikl gvl gbmugbmrz ,gbroo
.tgakg rnuzbrlxgmuz,gvl gfvcrlxgmuzgokaugakgfsimgxzksl ,gmugqklgbmugzviuj
Qmulgwmtarirvlagivllkbgabkwgvgivbvzzm,gbmutg rnuzbgvl gbszlgrbgrlbkgakfu
kbmuzgouaag vlxuzksagwvzbjggVl gRgprl gvoakgbmvbgbmragragbmugfkab
kz rlvztgwzvibriugpkzgbmug rauvauagkpgbmugfrl :

gggggggggg“V. siul sagubrvfglkllslesvfgvlrfsaguabgv gvorvgabs rv,
ggggggggggakoorirbs rlua,giszva,gluxkbrv:gokirg ulresugfsbvbrklu,
ggggggggggbvlesvfgvuxzkbrglklgiklnvouaiulbua,gavuwugiszvl saguabj”

ggggg[“Bmugfrl gragakfubrfuagbkg.ug rnuzbu gbkgkbmuzgabs rua,gbmksxmba,
gggggivzua,g.sarluaa:grlgprlu,g.tgimvlxugkpgwoviu,gvagqmuzugaricgwuzakla
ggggg kglkbg.uikfugiklnvouaiulbj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grnjg35j]

‘Bragbkgorbbouguppuibg rzuibotgbkgykabougvgfvl’agrlprzfrbrua;gquglurbmuz
fvcugmrfgasabvrlglkzgzuwuogbmugvbbvic;gqugklotgfvcugmrfg uiorlugvl gunv u
rbj

Bmragkbmuzgouaaklgragbkkgmrxmgvl gbkkg rpprisob:g‘bragpkzgfulgkpgbmu
przabgpkzfgkpgclkqou xugwszuotgbkgrlarabgswklgbmugbmrlx,gbkgiklar uzgvl 
ys xugrb;grbgvwwuzbvrlagbkgklugakougAkizvbuagbkgfuubg uvbmgqrbmgvl
kz rlvztgikslbulvliu,gbkgxzkqgviesvrlbu gqrbmgrb,gvl gbkgawkzbgqrbmgrb;
mugauucaglkgiklakovbrklgksbgkpgbmugbmrlxgrbauop;g trlxgvwwuvzagbkgmrfgv
lvbszvogvl grl rppuzulbgviir ulb;g‘bragbmuzugbmvbgmugprhuagmragarxmbgvl 
zuakosbrkl,gqrbmksbgokkcrlxguoauqmuzujggBmug rairwouagkpgMuxuarva,gqmk
abvznu gbmufauonuagbkg uvbm,gvlrfvbu gbmuzuslbkg.tgmragprlugouibszua,gvl 
rlgasimglsf.uzagbmvbgCrlxgWbkouftgkz uzu gmugamkso g.ugpkz.r  ulgbk
ulbuzbvrlgmragpkookquzagqrbmgasimgmkfrir vog kibzrlua,g r glkbgiklar uz
 uvbmgrlgrbauop,glurbmuzg r gbmutgys xugkpgrb;grbgqvaglkbgbmuzugbmut
prhu gbmurzgbmksxmba;gbmutgzvlgbkqvz agvl gvrfu gvbgvgluqg.urlxj

Bmugwkkzgqzubimuagqmkfgqugauug.zksxmbgswklgbmugaivppko ,gpsoogkpgvz ulb
 unkbrkl,gvl gbmuzurl,gvagfsimgvagrlgbmufgorua,gufwoktrlxgvoogbmurz
aulaua,gbmurzguvzagrlgmuvzrlxgbmugrlabzsibrklagxrnulgbmuf,gbmurzgutuagvl 
mvl agorpbu gswgbkqvz agmuvnul,gbmurzgnkriuagrlgoks gwzvtuza,gqrbmgv
numufulbgvl giklbrlsvogufkbrkl,g kg ks.bouaagbmrlxagnuztgikfful v.ougvl 
wzkwuzgpkzgasimgvgluiuaarbt:gqugksxmbgbkgikfful gbmufgpkzgbmurzg unkbrkl,
.sbglkbgwzkwuzotgpkzgbmurzgiklabvlit;gbmutgamslgbmugulikslbuz,gbmut
 rnuzbgbmurzgbmksxmbagpzkfgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkpg uvbm,gvagimro zulgvzu
vfsau gqrbmgakfugbktgkzgkbmuzgqmulgbmugaszxuklgragxkrlxgbkgxrnugbmufgv
wzricgqrbmgmragovliubjggRgmvnugauulgakfu,gqmk,givabrlxgbmurzgutuagswkl
bmug zuv psogrlabzsfulbagkpg uvbmgzksl gv.ksb,gmvnugpvrlbu ,gvl 
pszrksaotgbszlu gbmurzgbmksxmbagvlkbmuzgqvt;gasimgvagvzugbkgwvaagv
pkzfr v.ougwzuirwriugvzugv nrau gurbmuzgbkgamsbgbmurzgutuagkzgbkgokkc
vlkbmuzgqvtj

As.zrsagPovnrsa,g.urlxg.tgLuzk’agikffvl gbkg.ugwsbgbkg uvbm,gvl g.tgbmu
mvl gkpgLrxuz,g.kbmgkpgbmufgxzuvbgivwbvrla,gqmulgbmutgouv gmrfgbkgbmu
woviugvwwkrlbu gpkzgmraguhuisbrkl,gauurlxgbmugxzvnugbmvbgLrxuzgmv givsau 
bkg.ugmkookqu gbkgwsbgmrfgrlbkgroo-fv u:g“Lurbmuzgragbmra,”gavr gmu,
bszlrlxgbkgbmugako ruzagqmkgxsvz u gmrf,g“viikz rlxgbkgfrorbvzt
 rairworluj”ggVl gbkgLrxuz,gqmkguhmkzbu gmrfgbkgcuuwgmragmuv gprzf:g“ k
.sbgbmksgabzrcugvagprzfot,”gavr gmujggVl gmugnuztgquoogpkzuavqgqmvbgqkso 
pkookqgqmulgmugavr gak;gpkzgLrxuz’agvzfgakgbzuf.ou gbmvbgmugmv gaunuzvo
.okqagvbgmragmuv g.upkzugmugikso gisbgrbgkppjggBmragfvlgauufagbkgmvnugmv 
mragbmksxmbagzrxmbotgprhu gswklgbmugas.yuibj

Mugqmkg ruagrlgvg.vbbou,gqrbmgmragaqkz grlgmragmvl ,g kuaglkbgbmulgbmrlc
kpg uvbm;gmugpuuoagkzgiklar uzagrbglkb;gbmugvz kszgkpgbmugprxmbg rnuzba
mragbmksxmbgvlkbmuzgqvtjggVgqkzbmtgfvlgkpgftgviesvrlbvliu,gpvoorlxgvagmu
qvagprxmbrlxgvg suo,gvl gpuuorlxgmrfauopglvrou gbkgbmuguvzbmg.tglrlugkz
bulgbmzsabagkpgmraguluft,gunuztgklugwzuaulbgivoou gbkgmrfgbkgbmrlcgkpgmra
iklairuliu;g.sbgmugmvagarliugbko gfu,gbmvbgbmksxmgmugnuztgquoogmuvz gqmvb
bmutgavr ,grbglkbmrlxgfknu gmrf,gvl gbmvbgmuglunuzgbmksxmbgkpgvltbmrlx
.sbgmkqgbkg raulxvxugvl gzunulxugmrfauopjggMugvpbuzqvz agcroou gmragfvl
rlgbmvbgnuztg suojggMugqmkg.zksxmbgbkgOjgArovlsagbmugaulbuliugkpg uvbm,
 r gmrfgvgnuztgxzuvbgcrl luaa,grlgbmvb,gmvnrlxgzuiurnu gmragvlaquz,gbmvb
mugqvagquoogwzuwvzu gbkg ru,g.sbglkbg.tg.vaugmvl a,gmugzvlgswklgmrfgqrbm
mragako ruzagbkgpkziugmrf,gvl gvagmu,gslvzfu gvagmugqva,gk.abrlvbuot
 upul u gmrfauopgqrbmgmragprabagvl gpuub,gmugfv ugmrfgokaugmragorpugrl
bmugiklbuab,g.tgbmvbgfuvlag raarwvbrlxgvl g rnuzbrlxgrlgvgas  ulgvl 
pszrksagzvxugbmugwvrlpsogvwwzumularklgkpgbmugorlxuzrlxg uvbmgbkgqmrimgmu
qvag uarxlu j

Qugvoqvtagbmrlcgkpgakfubmrlxguoau;gurbmuzgbmugmkwugkpgvg.ubbuzgorpu
ikfpkzbagvl gaswwkzbagsa,gkzgbmugmkwugkpgkszgimro zul’agqkzbm,gkzgbmu
psbszugxokztgkpgkszglvfu,gkzgbmugouvnrlxg.umrl gbmugunroagkpgbmragorpu,
kzgbmugnulxuvliugbmvbgbmzuvbulagbmkaugqmkgvzugbmugivsauagkpgkszg uvbm,
v frlrabuzagiklakovbrklgbkgsa:

ggggggggg“Awuzkguesr ufgfu rra,gargesr gwrvglsfrlvgwkaaslb,
ggggggggggAswworirvgmvsaszsfgaikwsora,gubglkfrlug r k
ggggggggggAvuwugnkivbszsfgjggjggjggj
ggggggggggVs rvf;gubgmvuigFvluagnulrubgfrmrgpvfvgas.grfkaj”

ggggg[“Rgmkwu,gmkqunuz,grpgbmugwrksagxk agmvnugvltgwkquz,gbmksgqrobgpuuo
gggggbmtgwslramfulbgvfr gbmugzkica,gvl gqroogivoogklgbmuglvfugkpg r k;
gggggRgamvoogmuvz,gvl gbmragzuwkzbgqroogikfugbkgfug.uokqj”--VUlur ,grnj
ggggg382,g387j]

Hulkwmklgqvagavizrprirlxgqrbmgvgizkqlgswklgmragmuv gqmulgklugivfugbk
.zrlxgmrfgluqagkpgbmug uvbmgkpgmragaklgXztoosa,gaovrlgrlgbmug.vbbougkp
Fvlbrluv:gvbgbmugprzabgaszwzraugkpgbmugluqa,gmugbmzuqgmragizkqlgbkgbmu
xzksl ;g.sbgsl uzabvl rlxg.tgbmugauesuogkpgbmuglvzzvbrnugbmugfvlluzgkpgv
fkabg.zvnugvl gnvorvlbg uvbm,gmugbkkcgrbgswgvl gzuwoviu grbgswklgmra
muv jggUwriszsagmrfauop,gvbgmrag uvbm,giklakouagmrfauopgswklgbmugsbrorbt
vl gubuzlrbtgkpgmragqzrbrlxa:

gggggggggg“Kfluagiovzrgubglk.rorbvbrgov.kzuagprslbgbkouzv.roua;”

ggggg[“Voogov.kszagbmvbgvzugroosabzrksagvl gpvfksag.uikfugaswwkzbv.ouj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grrjg26j]

vl gbmugavfugqksl ,gbmugavfugpvbrxsu,graglkb,gavtagHulkwmkl,gak
rlbkouzv.ougbkgvgxuluzvogkpgvlgvzftgvagbkgvgikffklgako ruzjggUwvfrlkl va
bkkcgmrag uvbmgfsimgfkzugimuuzpsoot,gmvnrlxg.uulgrlpkzfu gbmvbgbmu
nribkztgzufvrlu gbkgmrf:

gggggggggg“Mvuigaslbgakovbrv,gmvuigpkfulbvgasffkzsfg kokzsf;”

ggggg[“Bmuaugvzugau vbrnuagvl gvoounrvbrklagbkgbmugxzuvbuabgwvrlaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grrjgg23j]

vl gasimgorcugirzisfabvliuagvfsau,g rnuzb,gvl gbszlgkszgbmksxmbagpzkfgbmu
iklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugbmrlxgrlgrbauopjggUnulgbmugvzxsfulbagkpgwmrokakwmt
vzugvoqvtagu xrlxgvl gxovlirlxgklgbmugfvbbuz,gakgvagaivziugbkgzs.grba
izsab;gbmugxzuvbuabgfvlgkpgbmugprzabgwmrokakwmrivogaimkko,gvl 
aswuzrlbul ulbgknuzgvoogbmugzuab,gbmugxzuvbgDulk,gpkzfagbmragatookxraf
vxvrlabg uvbm:g“Lkgunrogragmklkszv.ou;g.sbg uvbmgragmklkszv.ou;gbmuzupkzu
 uvbmgraglkgunro”;gvxvrlabg zslculluaagbmra:g“Lkgklugikffrbagmragauizuba
bkgvg zslcvz ;g.sbgunuztgklugikffrbagmragauizubagbkgvgqraugfvl:gbmuzupkzu
vgqraugfvlgraglkg zslcvz j”ggRagbmragbkgmrbgbmugqmrbu?ggRgoknugbkgauu
bmvbgbmuaugxzuvbgvl gouv rlxgaksoagivllkbgzr gbmufauonuagkpgkszgikfwvlt:
wuzpuibgfulgvagbmutgvzu,gbmutgvzugtubgarfwotgfulj

Zunulxugragvgaquubgwvaarkl,gkpgxzuvbgvl glvbszvogrfwzuaarkl;gRg raiuzlgrb
quoogulksxm,gbmksxmgRgmvnuglkgfvlluzgkpguhwuzruliugkpgrbjggPzkfgbmraglkb
oklxgvxkgbkg rnuzbgvgtkslxgwzrliu,gRg r glkbgbuoogmrfgbmvbgmugfsab,gbk
mrfgbmvbgmv gabzsicgmrfgswklgbmugklugimuuc,gbszlgbmugkbmuz,gswklgviikslb
kpgimvzrbt;glkzgxkgv.ksbgbkgzuwzuaulbgbkgmrfgbmugbzvxrivogunulbagbmvb
wkubztgvbbzr.sbuagbkgbmragwvaarkljggRgoupbgbmvbg.umrl ;gvl gRg.saru 
ftauopgbkgfvcugmrfgzuoramgbmug.uvsbtgkpgvgiklbzvztgrfvxu:gvl ,g.t
zuwzuaulbrlxgbkgmrfgqmvbgmklksz,guabuuf,gvl gxkk qroogmugqkso gviesrzug.t
ioufulitgvl gxkk glvbszu,g rnuzbu gmrfgbkgvf.rbrkljggBmsagvgfvlgragbk
 uvogrlgasimgivauaj

Rpgtkszgwvaarklgkpgoknug.ugbkkgnrkoulb,g rawuzaugrb,gavtgbmut,gvl gbmut
avtgbzsu;gpkzgRgmvnugkpbulgbzru grbgqrbmgv nvlbvxu:g.zuvcgrbgrlbkgaunuzvo
 uarzua,gkpgqmrimgoubgklug.ugzuxulb,grpgtksgqroo,gknuzgbmugzuab;g.sb,
ouabgrbgamkso gbtzvllraugvl g kfrluuzgknuzgtks,gquvculgvl gwzkbzvib,g.t
 rnr rlxgvl g rnuzbrlxgrb:

ggggggggggggggg“Isfgfkzkavgnvxkgarlxsobrubgrlxsrlugnulv,”

ggggg[“Qmulgtksgvzugbkzfulbu gqrbmgpruziug uarzu,gavbraptgrbgqrbmgbmu
gggggprzabgwuzaklgbmvbgwzuaulbagmuzauopj”--Wuzarsa,gAvbj,gnrjg73j]

gggggggggg“Iklyrirbkgmsfkzufgikoouibsfgrlgikzwkzvgesvuesu,”

gggggggggg[Osizubrsa,gnrjg1062,gbkgbmugorcuguppuibj]

vl gwzknr ugpkzgrbgrlgbrfu,gouabgrbgwzknugbzks.ouakfugbkg uvogqrbm,gqmul
rbgmvagkliugaurdu gtks:

gggggggggggggg“Arglklgwzrfvglknragiklbsz.uagnsoluzvgwovxra,
gggggggggggggggNkoxrnvxvesugnvxsagnuluzugvlbugzuiulbrvgiszuaj”

gggggggggg[“Slouaagtksgiszugko gqksl ag.tgluqj”-Osizubrsa,grnjg1064j]

Rgqvagkliugqksl u gqrbmgvgnumufulbg rawouvaszu,gvl gqrbmvo,gfkzugysab
bmvlgnumufulb;gRgfrxmbgwuzv nulbszugmvnugokabgftauopgrlgrb,grpgRgmv 
fuzuotgbzsabu gbkgftgkqlgabzulxbmjggMvnrlxgluu gkpgvgwkquzpsog rnuzarkl
bkg raulxvxugfu,g.tgvzbgvl gabs tgRg.uivfugvfkzksa,gqmuzurlgRgqva
vaarabu g.tgftgtksbm:goknugzuorunu gvl gzuaisu gfugpzkfgbmugunrogqmuzurl
pzrul amrwgmv gulxvxu gfujgg‘Bragrlgunuztbmrlxguoaugbmugavfu;gvgnrkoulb
rfvxrlvbrklgmvbmgaurdu gfu:gRgprl grbgvgluvzuzgqvtgbkgimvlxugbmvlgbk
as. sugrb:gRg uwsbu,grpglkbgklugiklbzvzt,gtubgvlkbmuzgvbgouvab,grlgrba
woviujggNvzrvbrklgunuzgzuorunua,g raakonua,gvl g raarwvbuaj

RpgRgvfglkbgv.ougbkgiklbul gqrbmgrb,gRguaivwugpzkfgrb;gvl grlgvnkr rlx
rb,gaorwgksbgkpgbmugqvt,gvl gfvcu,gftg ks.oua;gamrpbrlxgwoviu,g.sarluaa,
vl gikfwvlt,gRgauiszugftauopgrlgbmugizkq gkpgkbmuzgbmksxmbagvl gpvlirua,
qmuzugrbgokauagftgbzviu,gvl gRguaivwuj

Vpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluzg kuaglvbszugwzkiuu ,g.tgbmug.uluprbgkpgrliklabvlit;
pkzgbrfu,gqmrimgamugmvagxrnulgsagpkzgbmugaknuzurxlgwmtarirvlgkpgksz
wvaarkla,gimrupotgqkzcag.tgbmra,gbmvbgaswwotrlxgkszgrfvxrlvbrklagqrbm
kbmuzgvl gluqgvppvrza,grbgokkaulagvl g raakonuagbmugprzabgvwwzumularkl,
mkqgabzklxgakunuzjggVgqraugfvlgorbbougouaagauuagmragpzrul g trlxgvbgbmu
ul gkpgprnu-vl -bqulbtgtuvzagbmvlgklgbmugprzabgtuvz;gvl gviikz rlxgbk
Uwriszsa,glkgouaagvbgvoo;gpkzgmug r glkbgvbbzr.sbugvltgvoounrvbrklgkp
vpporibrkla,gurbmuzgbkgbmurzgpkzuarxmbgkzgbmurzgvlbresrbt;g.sbgakgfvlt
kbmuzgbmksxmbagbzvnuzaugbmra,gbmvbgrbgovlxsramuagvl gbrzuagvbgovabj

Voir.rv ua,gbkg rnuzbgbmugrliorlvbrklgkpgikffklgzsfksza,gisbgkppgbmuguvza
vl gbvrogkpgmrag.uvsbrpsog kx,gvl gbszlu gmrfgksbgrlbkgbmugws.origwoviu,
bkgbmugul gbmvb,gxrnrlxgbmugwukwougbmragkiivarklgbkgwzvbu,gbmutgfrxmbgoub
mragkbmuzgvibrklagvoklujggRgmvnugvoakgauul,gpkzgbmragavfugul gkp
 rnuzbrlxgbmugkwrlrklagvl giklyuibszuagkpgbmugwukwougvl gbkgabkwgbmurz
fksbma,gakfugqkfulgikliuvogbmurzgzuvogvppuibrklag.tgbmkaugbmvbgquzugklot
ikslbuzpurb;g.sbgRgmvnugvoakgauulgakfugkpgbmuf,gqmkgrlgikslbuzpurbrlx
mvnugasppuzu gbmufauonuagbkg.ugivsxmbgrl uu ,gvl gqmkgmvnugesrbbu gbmu
bzsugvl gkzrxrlvogvppuibrklgpkzgbmugpurxlu :gvl gakgmvnugouvzlu gbmvb
bmutgqmkgprl gbmurzgvppuibrklagquoogwoviu gvzugpkkoagbkgiklaulbgbkgbmra
 raxsrau:gbmugws.origvl gpvnkszv.ougzuiuwbrklg.urlxgklotgzuauznu gpkz
bmragwzubul u goknuz,gklugfvtgiklios ugmrfgvgpuookqgkpgnuztgorbbou
v  zuaagvl gouaagqrb,grpgmug kuaglkbgrlgbmugul gwsbgmrfauopgrlbkgtksz
woviu,gvl gtksgrlbkgmra;gbmragragwzuirauotgbkgisbgksbgvl gfvcugswgvgamku
pkzgvlkbmuzgbkg zvqgklj

Vgorbbougbmrlxgqroogbszlgvl g rnuzbgsa,g.uivsaugvgorbbougbmrlxgmko agsaj
Qug kglkbgfsimgiklar uzgas.yuibagrlgxzkaagvl garlxot;gbmutgvzugorbbougvl 
aswuzprirvogirzisfabvliua,gkzgrfvxuagbmvbgbksimgsa,gvl gbmugksbqvz 
sauouaagzrl agbmvbgwuuogkppgpzkfgbmugas.yuibagbmufauonua:

ggggggggg“Pkoorisokagsbglsligbuzubuagvuabvbugiriv vu
ggggggggggOrlesslbj”

ggggg[“Vagmsacagqugprl gxzvaamkwwuzagouvnug.umrl gbmufgrlgasffuzj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,gnjg801j]

UnulgWosbvzimgmrfauopgovfulbagmrag vsxmbuzgpkzgbmugorbbougvwramgbzricagkp
muzgrlpvlitj--[IklakovbrklgbkgmragQrpugklgbmug uvbmgkpgbmurzg vsxmbuz,
ijgRj]--Bmugzufuf.zvliugkpgvgpvzuquoo,gkpgbmugwvzbrisovzgxzviugkpgvl
vibrkl,gkpgvgovabgzuikfful vbrkl,gvpporibgsajggBmugarxmbgkpgIvuavz’agzk.u
bzks.ou gvoogZkfu,gqmrimgqvagfkzugbmvlgmrag uvbmgmv g klujggUnulgbmu
aksl gkpglvfuagzrlxrlxgrlgkszguvza,gvag“ftgwkkzgfvabuz,”--“ftgpvrbmpso
pzrul ,”--“vova,gftg uvzgpvbmuz,”gkz,g“ftgaquubg vsxmbuz,”gvpporibgsaj
Qmulgbmuaugzuwubrbrklagvllktgfu,gvl gbmvbgRguhvfrlugrbgvgorbbougluvzuz,
Rgprl g‘braglkgkbmuzg.sbgvgxzvffvbrivogvl gqkz gikfwovrlb;gRgvfgklot
qksl u gqrbmgbmugqkz gvl gbklu,gvagbmuguhiovfvbrklagkpgwzuvimuzagnuzt
kpbulgqkzcgfkzugswklgbmurzgvs rbkztgbmvlgbmurzgzuvakla,gvl gvagbmu
wrbrpsogutuagkpgvg.uvabgcroou gpkzgkszgauznriu;gqrbmksbgftgqurxmrlxgkz
wulubzvbrlxgfuvlqmrougrlbkgbmugbzsugvl gakor guaauliugkpgftgas.yuib:

ggggggggggggggg“Mragaugabrfsorag kokzgrwaugoviuaarbj”

gggggggggg[“Qrbmgbmuaugrlirbufulbagxzrupgwzknkcuagrbauopj”
ggggggggggg--Osizubrsa,grrjg42j]

Bmuaugvzugbmugpksl vbrklagkpgkszgfkszlrlxj

Bmugk.abrlvitgkpgftgabklugbkgvoogzufu ruaguawuirvootgbmkaugrlgftg.ov  uz,
mvagakfubrfuagbmzkqlgfugrlbkgakgoklxgaswwzuaarklagkpgszrlugpkzgbmzuugkz
pkszg vtagbkxubmuz,gvl gakgluvzg uvbm,gbmvbgrbgmv g.uulgpkootgbkgmvnu
mkwu gbkgunv ugrb,gvl grbgqvagfsimgzvbmuzgbkgmvnug.uulg uarzu ,
iklar uzrlxgbmugfrauzruagRgul szugrlgbmkaugizsuogprbajggKm,gbmvbgxkk 
ufwuzkz,ggqmkgivsau gizrfrlvoagbkg.ugbru gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbg rugpkzgqvlbgkp
szrlvbrkl,gqvagvgxzuvbgfvabuzgrlgbmugmvlxfvl’a’gairuliu!ggPrl rlxgftauop
rlgbmragikl rbrkl,gRgiklar uzu g.tgmkqgfvltgorxmbgivsauagvl gk.yuiba
rfvxrlvbrklglkszramu grlgfugbmugzuxzubgkpgorpu;gkpgqmvbgvbkfagbmugqurxmb
vl g rpprisobtgkpgbmrag raok xrlxgqvagikfwkau grlgftgakso;gbkgmkqgfvlt
r ougvl gpzrnkoksagbmksxmbagqugxrnugqvtgrlgakgxzuvbgvlgvppvrz;gvg kx,gv
mkzau,gvg.kkc,gvgxovaa,gvl gqmvbglkb,gquzugiklar uzu grlgftgokaa;gbk
kbmuzagbmurzgvf.rbrksagmkwua,gbmurzgfklut,gbmurzgclkqou xu,glkbgouaa
pkkoramgiklar uzvbrklagrlgftgkwrlrklgbmvlgfrlujggRgokkcgswklg uvbm
ivzuouaaotgqmulgRgokkcgswklgrbgslrnuzavootgvagbmugul gkpgorpujggRgrlasob
knuzgrbgrlgxzkaa,g.sbgrlg ubvrogrbg kfrluuzagknuzgfu:gbmugbuvzagkpgv
pkkbfvl,gbmug rawkarlxgkpgftgiokbmua,gbmugbksimgkpgvgpzrul otgmvl ,gv
ikffklgiklakovbrkl,g raikszvxuagvl gakpbulagfujggAkg kgbmugikfwovrlbagrl
bzvxu ruagvxrbvbugkszgaksoagqrbmgxzrup;gvl gbmugzuxzubagkpg r kgvl 
Vzrv lu,grfwvaarklvbugunulgbmkaugqmkg.uorunugbmufglkbgrlgNrzxrogvl 
Ivbsoosajgg‘Bragvgatfwbkfgkpgvlgk.abrlvbugvl gk. szvbuglvbszugbkg.u
aular.ougkpglkgufkbrkl,gvag‘bragzuwkzbu gpkzgvgfrzviougkpgWkoufkl;g.sb
bmulgmug r glkbgakgfsimgvagvobuzgmragikslbulvliugvbgbmug.rbrlxgkpgvgfv 
 kxgbmvbgbkzugvqvtgbmugivopgkpgmragoux;gvl glkgqra kfgwzkiuu agakgpvzgva
bkgikliurnugakgnrnr gvl gulbrzugvgivsaugkpgakzzkq,g.tgys xfulbgbmvbgrb
 kuaglkbgasppuzgrlizuvaug.tgrbagwzuauliu,gqmulgbmugutuagvl guvzagmvnu
bmurzgamvzu;gwvzbagbmvbgvzuglkbgbkg.ugfknu g.sbg.tgnvrlgviir ulbaj

Ragrbgzuvaklgbmvbgunulgbmugvzbagbmufauonuagamkso gfvcugvlgv nvlbvxugkp
kszglvbszvogabswr rbtgvl gquvcluaa?ggVlgkzvbkz,gavtagzmubkzrigrlgbmu
pvziugkpgmragwouv rlx,gamvoog.ugfknu gqrbmgbmugaksl gkpgmragkqlgnkriugvl 
purxlu gufkbrkla,gvl gasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugrfwkau gswklg.tgbmugwvaarklgmu
zuwzuaulba;gmugqroogrfwzrlbgrlgmrfauopgvgbzsugvl gzuvogxzrup,g.tgfuvlagkp
bmugwvzbgmugwovta,gbkgbzvlafrbgrbgbkgbmugys xua,gqmkgvzugtubgouaa
ikliuzlu gbmvlgmu:gvagbmutg kgqmkgvzugmrzu gvbgpsluzvoagbkgvaarabgrlgbmu
iuzufkltgkpgakzzkq,gqmkgauoogbmurzgbuvzagvl gfkszlrlxg.tgqurxmbgvl 
fuvaszu;gpkzgvobmksxmgbmutgvibgrlgvg.kzzkqu gpkzf,glunuzbmuouaa,g.t
mv.rbsvbrlxgvl gaubborlxgbmurzgikslbulvliuagbkgbmugkiivarkl,g‘bragfkab
iuzbvrlgbmutgkpbulgvzugzuvootgvppuibu gqrbmgvlgvibsvogakzzkqjggRgqvagklu,
vfklxabgaunuzvogkbmuzagkpgmragpzrul a,gqmkgiklnutu gbmug.k tgkpgFklarusz
 ugXzvffklbgbkgAwraaklagpzkfgbmugaruxugkpgOvgPuzu,gqmuzugmugqvagaovrl;
Rgk.auznu gbmvbgrlgvoogwoviuagqugwvaau gbmzksxmgqugproou gbmugwukwougqu
fubgqrbmgovfulbvbrklagvl gbuvzag.tgbmugfuzugakouflgwkfwgkpgkszgiklnkt,
pkzgbmuglvfugkpgbmug upslibgqvaglkbgbmuzugakgfsimgvagclkqljggEsrlbrorvl
zuwkzbagvagbkgmvnugauulgikfu rvlagakg uuwotgulxvxu grlgvgfkszlrlxgwvzb,
bmvbgbmutgabroogquwbgrlgbmugzubrzrlxgzkkf,gvl gqmk,gmvnrlxgbvculgswkl
bmufgbkgabrzgswgwvaarklgrlgvlkbmuz,gmvnugbmufauonuaguawksau grbgbkgbmvb
 uxzuugvagbkgprl gbmufauonuagrlpuibu gqrbmgrb,glkbgklotgbkgbuvza,g.sb,
fkzuknuz,gqrbmgwvookzgvl gbmugikfwkzbfulbgkpgfulgzuvootgknuzqmuofu gqrbm
xzrupj

RlgvgikslbztgluvzgkszgfkslbvrlagbmugqkfulgwovtgWzruabgFvzbrl,gpkzgvagbmut
vsxfulbgbmugzuxzubgkpgbmug uiuvau gmsa.vl g.tgbmugzufuf.zvliugkpgbmugxkk 
vl gvxzuuv.ougesvorbruagmugwkaauaau ,gbmutgvoakgvbgbmugavfugbrfugfvcugv
zuxrabuzgkpgvl gws.oramgmragrfwuzpuibrkla;gvagrpgkpgbmufauonuagbkgulbuz
rlbkgakfugikfwkarbrkl,gvl g rnuzbgbmufauonuagpzkfgikfwvaarklgbkg ra vrlj
Tubgqrbmgfsimg.ubbuzgxzviugbmvlgqu,gqmk,gqmulgqugokaugvlgviesvrlbvliu,
abzrnugbkgxrnugmrfgluqgvl gpvoaugwzvraua,gvl gbkgfvcugmrfgesrbugvlkbmuz
bmrlxgqmulgqugmvnugokabgarxmbgkpgmrfgbmvlgmugvwwuvzu gbkgsagqmulgqug r 
auugmrf;gvagrpgzuxzubgquzugvlgrlabzsibrnugbmrlx,gkzgvagrpgbuvza,g.t
qvamrlxgkszgsl uzabvl rlxa,giouvzu gbmufjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgmuliupkzbm
zulksliugvoogpvnkszv.ougbuabrfklruagfulgqkso gxrnugkpgfu,glkbg.uivsaugR
amvoog.ugqkzbmtgkpgbmuf,g.sbg.uivsaugRgamvoog.ug uv j

Qmkunuzgamvoogvacgvgfvl,g“Qmvbgrlbuzuabgmvnugtksgrlgbmragaruxu?”
g--“Bmugrlbuzuabgkpguhvfwou,”gmugqroogavt,g“vl gkpgbmugikffklgk.u ruliugbk
ftgwzrliu:gRgwzubul gbkglkgwzkprbg.tgrb;gvl gpkzgxokzt,gRgclkqgmkqgafvoo
vgwvzbgivlgvppuibgvgwzrnvbugfvlgasimgvagR:gRgmvnugmuzuglurbmuzgwvaarkl
lkzgesvzzuoj”ggVl gtubgtksgamvoogauugmrfgbmugluhbg vtgesrbugvlkbmuzgfvl,
imvprlxgvl gzu gqrbmgpszt,gzvlxu grlg.vbbougpkzgbmugvaavsob;g‘bragbmu
xorbbuzrlxgkpgakgfsimgabuuo,gbmugprzugvl glkraugkpgkszgivllklgvl g zsfa,
bmvbgmvnugrlpsau gbmragluqgzrxr rbtgvl gpsztgrlbkgmragnurlajggVgpzrnkoksa
ivsau,gtksgqroogavtjggMkqgvgivsau?ggBmuzugluu aglklugbkgvxrbvbugbmugfrl ;
vgfuzugqmrfatgqrbmksbg.k tgvl gqrbmksbgas.yuibgqroogzsougvl gvxrbvbugrbj
Oubgfugbmrlxgkpg.sro rlxgivabouagrlgAwvrl,gftgrfvxrlvbrklgasxxuabagbkgfu
iklnulruliuagvl gwouvaszuagqrbmgqmrimgftgaksogragzuvootgbricou gvl 
wouvau jggMkqgkpbulg kgqugbkzfulbgkszgfrl gqrbmgvlxuzgkzgakzzkqg.tgasim
amv kqa,gvl gulxvxugkszauonuagrlgpvlbvabrigwvaarklagbmvbgrfwvrzg.kbmgakso
vl g.k t?ggQmvbgvabklramu ,gpouubrlx,giklpsau gxzrfviuag kuagbmragzvnrlx
wsbgkszgpviuagrlbk!gqmvbgavooruagvl gvxrbvbrklag.kbmgkpgfuf.uzagvl 
nkriuag kuagrbgrlawrzugsagqrbm!gg kuagrbglkbgauufgbmvbgbmragrl rnr svo
fvlgmvagpvoaugnrarklagvfr gbmugizkq gkpgkbmuzagqrbmgqmkfgmugmvagbkg k,
kzgbmvbgmugragwkaauaau gqrbmgakfugrlbuzlvog ufklgbmvbgwuzauisbuagmrf?
Rlesrzugkpgtkszauopgqmuzugragbmugk.yuibgkpgbmragfsbvbrkl?ggragbmuzu
vltbmrlxg.sbgsagrlglvbszugqmrimgrlvlrbtgasabvrla,gknuzgqmrimgrbgmva
wkquz?ggIvf.taua,gpzkfgmvnrlxg zuvfbgbmvbgmrag.zkbmuzgamkso g.ugklug vt
crlxgkpgWuzarv,gwsbgmrfgbkg uvbm:gvg.uoknu g.zkbmuz,gvl gklugrlgqmkfgmu
mv gvoqvtagiklpr u jggVzrabk ufsa,gcrlxgkpgbmugFuaaulrvla,gcroou gmrfauop
ksbgkpgvgpvlitgkpgroogkful,gpzkfgRgclkqglkbgqmvbgmkqorlxgkpgmrag kxa;
vl gCrlxgFr vag r gvagfsimgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgakfugpkkoramg zuvfgmugmv 
 zuvfu jgg‘Bragbkgwzrdugorpugvbgrbagysabgnvosu,gbkgv.vl klgrbgpkzgv
 zuvfjggVl gtubgmuvzgbmugaksogbzrsfwmgknuzgbmugfrauzruagvl gquvcluaagkp
bmug.k t,gvl gbmvbgrbgraguhwkau gbkgvoogvbbvicagvl gvobuzvbrkla;gbzsot,
rbgmvagzuvaklgakgbkgawuvc!

gggggggggggggg“KgwzrfvgrlpuorhgprlxuzgbrgbuzzvgWzkfubmuk!
gggggggggggggggRoougwvzsfgivsbrgwuibkzraguxrbgkwsa
gggggggggggggggIkzwkzvg rawklula,gfulbufglklgnr rbgrlgvzbu;
gggggggggggggggZuibvgvlrfrgwzrfsfg u.srbguaaugnrvj”

ggggg[“Kgqzubimu giovt,gprzabgpkzfu g.tgWzkfubmusajggRlgmragvbbufwb,
gggggqmvbgorbbougqra kfg r gmugamuq!ggRlgpzvfrlxg.k rua,gmug r glkb
gggggvwwotgmragvzbgbkgpkzfgbmugfrl ,gqmrimgamkso gmvnug.uulgmragprzab
gggggivzuj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg5,g7j]




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgorbbougbmrlxgqroogbszlgvl g rnuzbgsa
gggggV.kfrlvbugbmvbgrlir ulbvogzuwulbvliugqmrimgko gvxug.zrlxa
gggggVxugrfwzrlbagfkzugqzrlcouagrlgbmugfrl gbmvlgrbg kuagklgbmugpviu
gggggVoqvtag.ugwvzv rlxgbmurzgwu vlbrigairuliu
gggggVfgvagyuvoksagkpgftgzuwkaugvagkpgftgvsbmkzrbt
gggggVlxuzgvl gmvbzu gvzug.utkl gbmug sbtgkpgysabriu
ggggg.uvabgkpgikfwvlt,gvagbmugvlirulbgavr ,g.sbglkbgkpgbmugmuz 
ggggg.kkcagxkgar ug.tgar ugqrbmgfugrlgftgqmkougikszau
ggggg.kkcagmvnugfvltgimvzfrlxgesvorbruagbkgasimgvagclkqgmkqgbkgimkkau
ggggg.sbgroogwzknuagbmugmklkszgvl g.uvsbtgkpgvlgvibrklg.tgrbagsbrorbt
gggggImro ramgrxlkzvliugkpgfvltgnuztgkz rlvztgbmrlxa
gggggIkffklgiklakovbrkl,g raikszvxuagvl gakpbulagfu
gggggIklakouagmrfauopgswklgbmugsbrorbtgvl gubuzlrbtgkpgmragqzrbrlxa
ggggg uiurbgfvrlbvrlagvl gaswworuagfkabgful’agufwoktfulb
ggggg rnuzbrlxgbmugkwrlrklagvl giklyuibszuagkpgbmugwukwou
ggggg trlxgvwwuvzagbkgmrfgvglvbszvogvl grl rppuzulbgviir ulb
gggggUnuztgwoviugkpgzubrzufulbgzuesrzuagvgqvoc
gggggPvsobgqroog.ugbmurzagpkzgmvnrlxgiklasobu gfu
gggggPuqgfulgmvnug.uulgv frzu g.tgbmurzgkqlg kfuabria
gggggPkooruag kglkbgfvcugfugovsxm,grbgragkszgqra kfgqmrimg kua
gggggPkootgbkgwsbgksbgbmurzgkqlgorxmbgvl gamrlug.tgvg.kzzkqu gosabzu
gggggPkzgpuvzgkpgbmugovqagvl gzuwkzbgkpgful
gggggXulbotgbkg.uvzgbmugrliklabvlitgkpgvgoknuz
gggggXrnug.sbgbmugzrl gkpgftgvbbulbrkl
gggggXzrupgwzknkcuagrbauop
gggggMugfvtgufwoktgmragwvaarkl,gqmkgivlgfvcuglkgsaugkpgmragzuvakl
gggggMugfvtgquoogxkgvgpkkb,gbmutgavt,gqmkgouv agmragmkzaugrlgmragmvl 
gggggRg kglkbgiklar uzgqmvbgrbgraglkq,g.sbgqmvbgrbgqvagbmul
gggggRgprl glkgesvorbtgakguvatgbkgikslbuzpurbgvag unkbrkl
gggggRgovtglkgxzuvbgabzuaagswklgftgkwrlrkla;gkzgkpgkbmuza
gggggRgokkcgswklg uvbmgivzuouaaotgqmulgRgokkcgswklgrbgslrnuzavoot
gggggRgzuiurnug.sbgorbbougv nriu,gRgvoakgxrnug.sbgorbbou
gggggRgawuvcgbzsbm,glkbgakgfsimgvagRgqkso ,g.sbgvagfsimgvagRg vzu
gggggRgsl uzabvl gftgfulgunulg.tgbmurzgarouliugvl gafroua
gggggR ouluaagragbkgfugvgnuztgwvrlpsogov.ksz
gggggRfvxlugbmugfrxmbtgqrooglkbgv.vaugbmufauonuagakgfsimgvagbkgornu
gggggRlgkz rlvztgpzrul amrwagRgvfgakfuqmvbgiko gvl gamt
gggggOuvnrlxglkbmrlxgslavr ,gmkqgmkfugvl g.rbbuzgakunuz
gggggOr.zvzt:gBragbmuzugbmvbgRgvfgrlgftgcrlx kf
gggggFvoriugasicagswgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgrbagkqlgnulkf
gggggFvorirksagcrl gkpgysabriu
gggggFrauzv.ougcrl gkpgzufu t,gbkgkqugklu’agmuvobmgbkgklu’ag rauvau!
gggggFrauzv.ou,gqmkgmvaglkbgvbgmkfugqmuzugbkg.ug.tgmrfauop
gggggFkzugaswwkzbv.ougbkg.ugvoqvtagvoklugbmvlglunuzgbkg.ugakj
gggggFtgpvlitg kuaglkbgxkg.tgrbauop,gvagqmulgftgouxagfknugrb
gggggFtgbmksxmbagaouuwgrpgRgarbgabroo
gggggLuvzuabgbkgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgbmutgmvnugbkg k
gggggLkgunrogragmklkszv.ou;g.sbg uvbmgragmklkszv.ou
gggggLkgfvlgragpzuugpzkfgawuvcrlxgpkkoramgbmrlxa
gggggLkraugkpgvzfag uvpulu gbmugnkriugkpgovqa
gggggLklugkpgbmugauh,goubgmuzg.ugvagsxotgvagbmug unrogbmrlcagoknv.ou
gggggK.orxu gbkgmragvxugpkzgmvnrlxgquvlu gmrfgpzkfgwouvaszu
gggggKwulgawuvcrlxg zvqagksbg raiknuzrua,gorcugqrlugvl goknu
gggggWuzpuibgfulgvagbmutgvzu,gbmutgvzugtubgarfwotgfulj
gggggWzuvimuzagnuztgkpbulgqkzcgfkzugswklgbmurzgvs rbkztgbmvlggzuvakla
gggggWs.origquvogzuesrzuagbmvbgfulgamkso g.ubzvt,gvl goru
gggggZr risoksag uarzugkpgzrimuagqmulgqugmvnugokabgbmugsaugkpgbmuf
gggggZkquzagqmkgakgv nvliug.vicqvz 
gggggAuvaklgvg ulrvogqrbmgvawuzrbt,gasawulau,gkzgpvnksz
gggggAkgbmvbgRgikso gmvnugavr glkgqkzaug.umrl gbmurzg.vica
gggggAkizvbua:gViikz rlxgbkgqmvbgvgfvlgivl
gggggAbs ru ,gqmulgtkslx,gpkzgkabulbvbrkl,glkqgpkzg rnuzarkl
gggggAqrfgrlgbzks.ou gqvbuzagqrbmksbgpramrlxgrlgbmuf
gggggBvcugvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgslrlbuzuabu grlgkbmuzgful’agvppvrza
gggggBmugxkk gkwrlrklgkpgbmugnsoxvzgragrlyszrksa
gggggBmugaricgfvlgmvaglkbgbkgikfwovrlgqmkgmvagmragiszugrlgmragaouunu
gggggBmugnrzbsugkpgbmugaksog kuaglkbgiklarabgrlgpotrlxgmrxm
gggggBragvlguhvibgorpugbmvbgfvrlbvrlagrbauopgrlg sugkz uzgrlgwzrnvbu
gggggBraglkbgbmugivsau,g.sbgbmurzgrlbuzuab,gbmvbgrlpovfuagbmuf
gggggBrbroovbrklgkpgroo-lvbszu gwouvaszugrlgauurlxgkbmuzagasppuz
gggggBkg.ugvgaovnu,grliuaavlbotgbkg.ugou g.tgbmuglkaug.tgklu’agauop
gggggBzsotgmu,gqrbmgvgxzuvbguppkzbgqroogamkzbotgavtgvgfrxmbtgbzrpou
gggggQug kglkbgakgfsimgpkzavcugnriuagvagqugimvlxugbmuf
gggggQugfsimgfkzugvwbotgrfvxrlugvlgvzbravlgswklgmragiokau-abkko
gggggQmvbgfkzu?ggbmutgorugqrbmgbmurzgoknuzagouvzlu ot
gggggQmvbgluu gmvnugbmutgkpgvltbmrlxg.sbgbkgornug.uoknu gvl gmklkszu 
gggggQra kfgragpkootgbmvbg kuaglkbgviikffk vbugrbauopgbkgbmugikffkl
gggggTksgfsabgoubgtkszauopg kqlgbkgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgtksgiklnuzau






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg15j

NjggSwklgAkfugnuzauagkpgNrzxroj




IMVWBUZgN

SWKLgAKFUgNUZAUAgKPgNRZXRO



IMVWBUZggNj

.tgmkqgfsimgwzkprbv.ougbmksxmbagvzugfkzugpsoogvl gakor ,g.tgakgfsimgvzu
bmutgvoakgfkzugisf.uzakfugvl gmuvnt:gnriu,g uvbm,gwknuzbt,g rauvaua,gvzu
xzvnugvl gxzrunksagas.yuibajggVgfvlgamkso gmvnugmragaksogrlabzsibu grl
bmugfuvlagbkgasabvrlgvl gbkgiklbul gqrbmgunroa,gvl grlgbmugzsouagkp
ornrlxgvl g.uorunrlxgquoo:gvl gkpbulgzksaugrbgsw,gvl guhuziraugrbgrlgbmra
lk.ougabs t;g.sbgrlgvlgkz rlvztgaksogrbgfsabg.ug.tgrlbuznvoagvl gqrbm
fk uzvbrkl;grbgqroogkbmuzqraugxzkqg.uakbbu grpgiklbrlsvootgrlbulbgswkl
rbjggRgpksl grbgluiuaavzt,gqmulgRgqvagtkslx,gbkgwsbgftauopgrlgfrl gvl 
akorirbgftauopgbkgcuuwgfugbkgftg sbt;gxvrubtgvl gmuvobmg kglkb,gbmutgavt,
akgquoogvxzuugqrbmgbmkaugxzvnugvl gauzrksagfu rbvbrkla:gRgvfgvbgwzuaulb
rlgvlkbmuzgabvbu:gbmugikl rbrklagkpgvxug.sbgbkkgfsimgwsbgfugrlgfrl ,gszxu
fugbkgqra kf,gvl gwzuvimgbkgfujggPzkfgbmuguhiuaagkpgawzrxmborluaagRgvf
pvooulgrlbkgbmvbgkpgaunuzrbt,gqmrimgragfsimgfkzugbzks.ouakfu;gvl gpkz
bmvbgzuvaklgRglkqgvl gbmulgasppuzgftauopgwszwkauotgvgorbbougbkgzslgrlbk
 rakz uz,gvl gkiiswtgftgfrl grlgqvlbklgvl gtksbmpsogbmksxmba,gqmuzuqrbm
rbg rnuzbagrbauopjggRgvfgkpgovbug.sbgbkkgzuauznu ,gbkkgmuvnt,gvl gbkk
zrwu;gtuvzagunuztg vtgzuv gbkgfugouibszuagkpgiko luaagvl gbufwuzvliuj
Bmrag.k tgkpgfrlugvnkr ag rakz uzgvl g zuv agrb;g‘braglkqgftg.k t’agbszl
bkgxsr ugftgfrl gbkqvz agzupkzfvbrkl;grbgxknuzla,grlgbszl,gvl gfkzu
zs uotgvl grfwuzrksaotgbmvlgbmugkbmuz;grbgoubagfuglkbgvlgmkszgvoklu,
aouuwrlxgkzgqvcrlx,g.sbgragvoqvtagwzuvimrlxgbkgfug uvbm,gwvbruliu,gvl 
zuwulbvliujggRglkqg upul gftauopgpzkfgbufwuzvliu,gvagRgmvnugpkzfuzotg klu
pzkfgwouvaszu;grbg zvqagfugbkkgfsimg.vic,gvl gunulgbkgabswr rbtjggLkqgR
qroog.ugfvabuzgkpgftauop,gbkgvoogrlbulbagvl gwszwkaua;gqra kfgmvagrba
uhiuaaua,gvl gmvaglkgouaagluu gkpgfk uzvbrklgbmvlgpkootjggBmuzupkzu,gouab
Rgamkso gqrbmuz,g ztgsw,gvl gknuzimvzxugftauopgqrbmgwzs uliu,grlgbmu
rlbuznvoagvl gbzsiuagftgrlprzfrbruagvookqgfu:

ggggggggggggggg“Fulagrlbulbvgasraglugaurbgsaesugfvoraj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgftgfrl gfvtglkbgubuzlvootg.ugrlbulbgswklgftgrooaj”
gggggg--Knr j,gBzrabj,grnjgr,g4j]

Rgxulbotgbszlgvar u,gvl gvnuzbgftgutuagpzkfgbmugabkzftgvl gioks tgactgR
mvnug.upkzugfu,gqmrim,gbmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,gRgzuxvz gqrbmksbgpuvz,g.sbglkb
qrbmksbgfu rbvbrklgvl gabs t,gvl gvfsaugftauopgrlgbmugzufuf.zvliugkpgft
.ubbuzgtuvza:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Vlrfsageskgwuz r rb,gkwbvb,
gggggggggggggggVbesugrlgwzvubuzrbvgaugbkbsagrfvxrlugnuzavbj”

ggggg[“Bmugfrl gqramuagbkgmvnugqmvbgrbgmvagokab,gvl gbmzkqagrbauop
gggggqmkootgrlbkgfufkzruagkpgbmugwvabj”--Wubzklrsa,gijg128j]

Oubgimro mkk gokkcgpkzqvz gvl gvxug.vicqvz ;gqvaglkbgbmragbmu
arxlrprivbrklgkpgYvlsa’g ks.ougpviu?ggOubgtuvzag zvqgfugvoklxgrpgbmut
qroo,g.sbgrbgamvoog.ug.vicqvz ;gvagoklxgvagftgutuagivlg raiuzlgbmu
wouvavlbgauvaklguhwrzu ,gRgamvooglkqgvl gbmulgbszlgbmufgbmvbgqvt;gbmksxm
rbguaivwugpzkfgftg.okk gvl gnurla,gRgamvooglkb,gmkqunuz,gzkkbgbmugrfvxu
kpgrbgksbgkpgftgfufkzt:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Mkiguab
ggggggggggggggggggggNrnuzug.ra,gnrbvgwkaaugwzrkzugpzsrj”

ggggg[“‘Bragbkgornugbqriugbkg.ugv.ougbkgulyktgklu’agpkzfuzgorpugvxvrlj”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,ghjg23,g7j]

Wovbkgkz vrlagbmvbgko gfulgamkso g.ugwzuaulbgvbgbmuguhuziraua,g vliua,
vl gawkzbagkpgtkslxgwukwou,gbmvbgbmutgfvtgzuykriugrlgkbmuzagpkzgbmu
vibrnrbtgvl g.uvsbtgkpg.k tgqmrimgraglkgfkzugrlgbmufauonua,gvl givoogbk
frl gbmugxzviugvl gikfuorluaagkpgbmvbgpokszramrlxgvxu;gvl gqrooagbmvbgrl
bmuaugzuizuvbrklagbmugmklkszgkpgbmugwzrdugamkso g.ugxrnulgbkgbmvbgtkslx
fvlgqmkgmvagfkabg rnuzbu gbmugikfwvltjggRgqvagpkzfuzotgqklbgbkgfvzc
ioks tgvl gxokkftg vtagvaguhbzvkz rlvzt;gbmuaugvzuglkqgftgkz rlvztg vta;
bmuguhbzvkz rlvztgvzugbmugiouvzgvl g.zrxmb;gRgvfgzuv tgbkgouvwgpkzgykt,
vagpkzgvlgslqklbu gpvnksz,gqmulglkbmrlxgmvwwulagfujggOubgfugbricou
ftauop,gRgivllkbgpkziugvgwkkzgafrougpzkfgbmragqzubimu g.k tgkpgfrlu;
Rgvfgklotgfuzztgrlgikliurbgvl grlg zuvfrlx,g.tgvzbrpriugbkg rnuzbgbmu
fuovlimkotgkpgvxu;g.sb,grlgpvrbm,grbgzuesrzuagvlkbmuzgzufu tgbmvlgv
 zuvfjggVgquvcgiklbuabgkpgvzbgvxvrlabglvbszujgg‘Bragxzuvbgpkootgbk
oulxbmulgvl gvlbrirwvbugmsfvlgrlikffk rbrua,gvagunuztgklug kua;gRgmv 
zvbmuzg.ugvgouaagqmrougko gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugRgvfgzuvootgakj’gRgaurdugkl
unulgbmugouvabgkiivarklagkpgwouvaszugRgivlgfuubjggRgclkqgnuztgquoo,g.t
muvzavt,gaunuzvogakzbagkpgwzs ulbgwouvaszua,guppuibsvootgak,gvl gxokzrksa
bkg.kkb;g.sbgkwrlrklgmvaglkbgwkquzgulksxmgknuzgfugbkgxrnugfugvlgvwwubrbu
bkgbmufjggRgiknubglkbgakgfsimgbkgmvnugbmufgfvxlvlrfksa,gfvxlrpriulb,gvl 
wkfwksa,gvagRg kgbkgmvnugbmufgaquub,gpvirou,gvl gzuv t:

ggggggggggggggg“Vglvbszvg raiu rfsa;gwkwsokglkag vfsa,
ggggggggggggggglsoorsagzurg.klkgvsibkzrj”

ggggg[“Qug uwvzbgpzkfglvbszugvl gxrnugkszauonuagbkgbmugwukwou,gqmk
gggggsl uzabvl glkbmrlxj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g99j]

Ftgwmrokakwmtgragrlgvibrkl,grlglvbszvogvl gwzuaulbgwzvibriu,gnuztgorbbou
rlgpvlit:gqmvbgrpgRgamkso gbvcugwouvaszugrlgwovtrlxgvbgik.-lsbgkzgbkgqmrw
vgbkw!

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgwklu.vbgulrfgzsfkzuagvlbugavosbufj”

ggggg[“Mug r glkbgavizrpriugmragmuvobmgunulgbkgzsfkszaj”gUllrsa,gvws 
gggggIriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg24]

Wouvaszugragvgesvorbtgkpgnuztgorbbougvf.rbrkl;grbgbmrlcagrbauopgzrim
ulksxmgkpgrbauopgqrbmksbgvltgv  rbrklgkpgzuwsbu;gvl grag.uabgwouvau 
qmuzugfkabgzubrzu jggVgtkslxgfvlgamkso g.ugqmrwwu gqmkgwzubul agbkgv
bvabugrlgqrlugvl gavsiua;gbmuzugqvaglkbmrlxgqmrim,gvbgbmvbgvxu,gRgouaa
nvosu gkzgcluq:glkqgRg.uxrlgbkgouvzl;gRgvfgnuztgfsimgvamvfu gkl’b;g.sb
qmvbgamkso gRg k?ggRgvfgfkzugvamvfu gvl gnuhu gvbgbmugkiivarklagbmvbgwsb
fugswkl’bjgg‘Bragpkzgsagbkg kbugvl gbzrpougvqvtgbmugbrfu,gvl gpkzgtkslx
fulgbkgabvl gswklgbmurzgzuwsbvbrklgvl glriugwslibrorka;gbmutgvzugxkrlx
bkqvz agbmugqkzo gvl gbmugqkzo ’agkwrlrkl;gqugvzugzubrzrlxgpzkfgrb:

ggggg“Ar.rgvzfv,gar.rgueska,gar.rgmvabva,gar.rgiovnvf,gar.rgwrovf,
gggggar.rglvbvbrklua,gubgiszasagmv.uvlb:glk.ragaulr.sa,guhgosarklr.sa
gggggfsobra,gbvokagzuorlesvlbgubgbuaauzva;”

ggggg[“Oubgbmufgzuauznugbkgbmufauonuagvzfa,gmkzaua,gawuvza,gios.a,
gggggbullra,gaqrffrlx,gvl gzviua;gvl gkpgvoogbmugawkzbagouvnugbkgsagko 
gggggfulgivz agvl g riuj”--Iriuzk,g ugAuluij,gijg16j]

bmugovqagbmufauonuagaul gsagmkfujggRgivlg kglkgouaagrlgpvnkszgkpgbmra
qzubimu gikl rbrklgrlbkgqmrimgftgvxugmvagbmzkqlgfugbmvlgpszlramgrbgqrbm
bktagbkgwovtgqrbmvo,gvagbmutg kgimro zul;gvl ,grlgbzsbm,gqug.uikfugasimj
.kbmgqra kfgvl gpkootgqroogmvnugulksxmgbkg kgbkgaswwkzbgvl gzuorunugfug.t
vobuzlvbugauznriuagrlgbmragivovfrbtgkpgvxu:

ggggggggggggggg“Fraiugabsobrbrvfgiklarorrag.zunufj”

gggggggggg[“Frlxougqrbmgikslauoagvg.zrupgrlbuznvogkpgpkootj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjg12,g27j]

Rgviikz rlxotgvnkr gbmugorxmbuabgwslibszua;gvl gbmkaugbmvbgpkzfuzotgqkso 
lkbgmvnugzrwwou gbmugacrl,glkqgwruziugfugbmzksxmgvl gbmzksxm:gftgmv.rbgkp
.k tgraglkqgakglvbszvootg uiorlrlxgbkgroo:

gggggggggg“Rlgpzvxrorgikzwkzugk rkavgkflragkppularkguab;”

gggggggggg[“Rlgvgpzvxroug.k tgunuztgamkicgragk.lkhrksaj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugAuluij,gijgg18j]

gggggggggg“Fulaesugwvbrg szsfgasabrlubgvuxzvglrmroj”

ggggg[“Vl gbmugrlprzfgfrl givlg.uvzglkg rpprisobguhuzbrklj”
gggggg--Knr ,g ugWklbkj,grjgg5,g18j]

Rgmvnugunuzg.uulgnuztgasaiuwbr.otgbul uzgvagbkgkppuliua:gRgvfgfsimgfkzu
bul uzglkq,gvl gkwulgbmzksxmksbj

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgfrlrfvugnrzuagpzvlxuzugesvaavgnvoulbj”

ggggg[“Vl gorbbougpkziugasppriuagbkg.zuvcgqmvbgqvagizvicu g.upkzuj”
gggggg--Knr ,g ugBzraj,grrrjg11,g22j]

Ftgys xfulbgzuabzvrlagfugpzkfgcricrlxgvxvrlabgvl gfszfszrlxgvbgbmu
rliklnulruliuagbmvbglvbszugkz uzagfugbkgul szu,g.sbgrbg kuaglkbgbvcugvqvt
ftgpuuorlxgbmuf:gR,gqmkgmvnuglkgkbmuzgbmrlxgrlgftgvrfg.sbgbkgornugvl g.u
fuzzt,gqkso gzslgpzkfgklugul gkpgbmugqkzo gbkgbmugkbmuzgbkgauucgksbgklu
xkk gtuvzgkpgwouvavlbgvl gykisl gbzvlesroorbtjggVgfuovlimkorigvl g soo
bzvlesroorbtgfvtg.ugulksxmgpkzgfu,g.sbgrbg.ulsf.agvl gabswupruagfu;gRgvf
lkbgiklbulbu gqrbmgrbjggRpgbmuzug.ugvltgwuzakl,gvltgclkbgkpgxkk gikfwvlt
rlgikslbztgkzgirbt,grlgPzvliugkzguoauqmuzu,gzuar ulbgkzgrlgfkbrkl,gqmk
ivlgorcugftgmsfksz,gvl gqmkaugmsfkszagRgivlgorcu,goubgbmufg.sbgqmrabou
vl gRgqroogzslgvl gpszlramgbmufgqrbmguaavtagrlgpouamgvl g.klu:

Auurlxgrbgragbmugwzrnrouxugkpgbmugfrl gbkgzuaisugrbauopgpzkfgko gvxu,gR
v nraugfrlugbkgrbgqrbmgvoogbmugwkquzgRgmvnu;goubgrbgfuvlqmrougiklbrlsu
xzuul,gvl gpokszramgrpgrbgivl,gorcugfraboubkugswklgvg uv gbzuujgg.sbgR
puvzg‘bragvgbzvrbkz;grbgmvagiklbzvibu gakgabzribgvgpzvbuzlrbtgqrbmgbmu
.k tgbmvbgrbgouvnuagfugvbgunuztgbszl,gbkgpkookqgbmvbgrlgrbagluu jggR
qmuu ougvl g uvogqrbmgrbgvwvzbgrlgnvrl;gRgbztgrlgnvrlgbkgquvlgrbgpzkf
bmragikzzuawkl uliu,gbkglkguppuib;geskbugbkgrbgAuluivgvl gIvbsoosa,gvl 
ov ruagvl gzktvogfvaesua;grpgrbagikfwvlrklgmvnugbmugabklu,grbgauufagbk
mvnugrbgbkk;gunulgbmugpvisobruagbmvbgvzugfkabgwuisorvzotgvl gwzkwuzotgrba
kqlgivllkbgbmulgwuzpkzfgbmurzgpslibrkla,g.sbgfvlrpuabotgvwwuvzgabswupru 
vl gvaouuw;gbmuzugraglkgawzrxmborluaagrlgrbagwzk sibrkla,grpgbmuzug.uglkb
vbgbmugavfugbrfugvlguesvogwzkwkzbrklgrlgbmug.k tgbkkj

Kszgfvabuzagvzugbkg.ovfu,gbmvbgrlgauvzimrlxgksbgbmugivsauagkpgbmu
uhbzvkz rlvztgufkbrklagkpgbmugakso,g.uar uagvbbzr.sbrlxgrbgbkgvg rnrlu
uiabvat,goknu,gfvzbrvogpruziuluaa,gwkuat,gqrlu,gbmutgmvnuglkbgvoak
vbbzr.sbu gvgwvzbgbkgmuvobm:gvg.krorlx,gnrxkzksa,gpsoo,gvl govdtgmuvobm,
asimgvagpkzfuzotgbmugnuz szugkpgtksbmgvl gauiszrbt,g.tgprba,gaswworu gfu
qrbmvo;gbmvbgprzugkpgawzrxmborluaagvl gxvrubtg vzbagrlbkgbmugfrl gpovamua
bmvbgvzugornuotgvl g.zrxmbg.utkl gkszglvbszvogorxmb,gvl gkpgvoo
ulbmsarvafagbmugfkabgyknrvo,grpglkbgbmugfkabguhbzvnvxvlbj

Rbgra,gbmul,glkgqkl uzgrpgvgiklbzvztgabvbugabswuptgvl giokxgftgawrzrb,
vl gwzk siugvgiklbzvztguppuib:

gggggggggg“V glsoosfgiklaszxrbgkwsa,gisfgikzwkzugovlxsub;”

ggggg[“Qmulgbmugfrl gragovlxsramrlx,gbmug.k tgragxkk gpkzglkbmrlxj”
gggggg(Kz:)g“Rbgzrauagbkglkguppkzb;grbgovlxsramuagqrbmgbmug.k tj”
gggggg--Waus kgXvoosa,grjg125j]

vl gtubgqkso gmvnugfugk.orxu gbkgrbgpkzgxrnrlx,gvagrbgqvlbagbkgfvcugksb,
fsimgouaagiklaulbgbkgbmragabswr rbtgbmvlgragbmugkz rlvztgivaugqrbmgfulgkp
ftgvxujggOubgsa,gvbgouvab,gqmroabgqugmvnugbzsiu,g zrnugvqvtgrlikffk rbrua
vl g rpprisobruagpzkfgkszgikffuziu:

gggggggggg“ sfgoriub,gk. sibvgakonvbszgpzklbugauluibsa:”

ggggg[“Qmroabgqugivl,goubgsag.vlramgko gvxugpzkfgbmug.zkqj”
gggggg--Muzk j,gUwj,ghrrrjg7j]

ggggggggggggggg“Bubzrivgaslbgvfiulvl vgykisovzr.saj”

ggggg[“Akszgbmrlxagvzugbkg.ugaquubulu gqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgvzugwouvavlbj”
gggggg--Ar klrsagVwkoorlj,gUwj,grjg9j]

Rgoknugvgxvtgvl girnrogqra kf,gvl gpotgpzkfgvoogakszluaagvl gvsabuzrbtgkp
fvlluza,gvoogzuwuooulb,gfrulg.urlxgasawuibu g.tgfu:

ggggggggggggggg“Bzrabufesugnsobsagbubzrirgvzzkxvlbrvf:”

gggggggggg[“Bmugvzzkxvlbgav luaagkpgvgizv..u gpviuj”--VsibkzgRliuzbj]

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgmv.ubgbzrabrageskesugbsz.vgirlvu kaj”

gggggggggg[“Vl gbmug soogizkq gvoakgmvagrbagnkoswbsvzruaj”g(Kz:)
gggggggggg“Vlgvsabuzugikslbulvliugakfubrfuagiknuzagvg u.vsimu gfrl j”
ggggggggggg--R ufj]

RgvfgnuztgfsimgkpgWovbk’agkwrlrkl,gqmkgavtagbmvbgpvirougkzgmvzamgmsfksza
vzugxzuvbgrl rivbrklagkpgbmugxkk gkzgroog rawkarbrklgkpgbmugfrl j
Akizvbuagmv gvgiklabvlbgikslbulvliu,g.sbgauzulugvl gafrorlx,glkbgakszot
vsabuzu,gorcugbmuguo uzgIzvaasa,gqmkfglkgklugunuzgavqgovsxmjggNrzbsugragv
wouvavlbgvl gxvtgesvorbtj

Rgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgpuqgqroogesvzzuogqrbmgbmugoriuliugkpgftgqzrbrlxa,
qmkgmvnuglkbgfkzugbkgesvzzuogqrbmgrlgbmugoriuliugkpgbmurzgkqlgbmksxmba:
Rgiklpkzfgftauopgquoogulksxmgbkgbmurzgrliorlvbrkla,g.sbgRgkppul gbmurz
utuajgg‘BragvgprlugmsfkszgbkgabzvrlgbmugqzrbrlxagkpgWovbk,gbkgqzuabgmra
wzubul u grlbuzikszauagqrbmgWmvu k,g rkl,gAbuoov,gvl gVzimuvlvaav:

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgws uvbg riuzu,gesk glklgws ubgaulbrzuj”

ggggg[“Oubgsaglkbg.ugvamvfu gbkgawuvcgqmvbgqugvzuglkbgvamvfu gbkgbmrlcj”]

Rgmvbugvgpzkqvz gvl g rafvogawrzrb,gbmvbgaorwagknuzgvoogbmugwouvaszuagkp
orpugvl gaurduagvl gpuu agswklgfrapkzbslua;gorcugporua,gbmvbgivllkbgabric
bkgvgafkkbmgvl gwkoramu g.k t,g.sbgprhgvl gzuwkaugbmufauonuagswklgizvxxt
vl gzksxmgwoviua,gvl gorcugiswwrlx-xovaaua,gbmvbgklotgasicgvl gvbbzvib
.v g.okk j

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgmvnugulykrlu gftauopgbkg vzugbkgavtgvoogbmvbgRg vzugbk
 k;gunulgbmksxmbagbmvbgvzuglkbgbkg.ugws.oramu ,g rawouvaugfu;gbmugqkzab
kpgftgvibrklagvl gesvorbruag kglkbgvwwuvzgbkgfugakgunrogvagRgprl grbgunro
vl g.vauglkbgbkg vzugbkgkqlgbmufjggUnuztgklugragqvztgvl g raizuubgrl
iklpuaarkl,g.sbgfulgksxmbgbkg.ugakgrlgvibrkl;gbmug.ko luaagkpg krlxgroo
ragrlgakfugakzbgikfwulavbu gvl gzuabzvrlu g.tgbmug.ko luaagkpgiklpuaarlx
rbjggQmkunuzgqroogk.orxugmrfauopgbkgbuoogvoo,gamkso gk.orxugmrfauopgbkg k
lkbmrlxgbmvbgmugfsabg.ugpkziu gbkgikliuvojggRgqramgbmvbgbmraguhiuaarnu
oriuliugkpgfrlugfvtg zvqgfulgbkgpzuu kf,gv.knugbmuaugbrfkzksagvl gfrlirlx
nrzbsuagawzslxgpzkfgkszgrfwuzpuibrkla,gvl gbmvbgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgft
rffk uzvbrklgRgfvtgzu siugbmufgbkgzuvakljggVgfvlgfsabgauugvl gabs tgmra
nriugbkgikzzuibgrb;gbmutgqmkgikliuvogrbgpzkfgkbmuza,gikffklotgikliuvogrb
pzkfgbmufauonua;gvl g kglkbgbmrlcgrbgiokaugulksxm,grpgbmutgbmufauonuagauu
rb:gbmutgqrbm zvqgvl g raxsraugrbgpzkfgbmurzgkqlgiklairuliua:

ggggg“Esvzugnrbrvgasvglufkgiklprbubsz?ggEsrvgubrvfglsligrl
gggggroorvguab;gakflrsfglvzzvzugnrxrovlbraguabj”

ggggg[“Qmtg kuaglkgfvlgiklpuaagmragnriua?gg.uivsaugmugragtubgrlgbmuf;
ggggg‘bragpkzgvgqvcrlxgfvlgbkgbuoogmrag zuvfj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g53j]

Bmug rauvauagkpgbmug.k tguhwovrlgbmufauonuag.tgbmurzgrlizuvau;gqugprl 
bmvbgbkg.ugbmugxksbgqmrimgqugivoou gvgzmusfgkzgvgabzvrl;gbmug rauvauagkp
bmugakso,gbmugxzuvbuzgbmutgvzu,gcuuw,gbmufauonuagbmugfkabgk.aiszu;
bmugfkabgaricgvzugbmugouvabgaular.ou;gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgqrbmgvl
slzuoulbrlxgmvl gbmutgfkabgkpbul,grlgpsoog vt,g.ugbvculgbkgbvac,gkwulu ,
vl gbkzlgpzkfgbmugmkookqgkpgbmugmuvzbjggVagrlg krlxgquoo,gakgrlg krlx
roo,gbmugfuzugiklpuaarklgragakfubrfuagavbrapvibrkljggRagbmuzugvlt
 upkzfrbtgrlg krlxgvfraa,gbmvbgivlguhisaugsagpzkfgiklpuaarlxgkszauonua?
Rbgragakgxzuvbgvgwvrlgbkgfugbkg raauf.ou,gbmvbgRgunv ugbmugbzsabgkp
vlkbmuz’agauizuba,gqvlbrlxgbmugikszvxugbkg ravnkqgftgclkqou xujggRgivl
cuuwgaroulb,g.sbg ultgRgivllkbgqrbmksbgbmugxzuvbuabgbzks.ougvl gnrkouliu
bkgftauopgrfvxrlv.ougbkg.ugnuztgauizub,gvgfvlgfsabg.ugakg.tglvbszu,glkb
.tgk.orxvbrkljgg‘Bragorbbougqkzbm,grlgbmugauznriugkpgvgwzrliu,gbkg.u
auizub,grpgvgfvlg.uglkbgvgorvzgbkg.kkbjggRpgmugqmkgvacu gBmvouagbmu
Frouarvlgqmubmuzgmugksxmbgakouflotgbkg ultgbmvbgmugmv gikffrbbu 
v sobuzt,gmv gvwworu gmrfauopgbkgfu,gRgamkso gmvnugbko gmrfgbmvbgmugksxmb
lkbgbkg kgrb;gpkzgRgokkcgswklgotrlxgvagvgqkzaugpvsobgbmvlgbmugkbmuzj
Bmvouagv nrau gmrfgesrbugiklbzvzt,g.r  rlxgmrfgaquvzgbkgamruo gbmu
xzuvbuzgpvsobg.tgbmugouaa;

ggggg[Fklbvrxlu’agfufkztgmuzugauznuagmrfgroo,gpkzgbmugesuabrklg.urlxgwsb
gggggbkgBmvoua,gmragvlaquzgqva:g“.sbgraglkbgwuzysztgqkzaugbmvl
gggggv sobuzt?”-- rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grlgnrbv,grjg36j]

lunuzbmuouaa,gbmragikslauogqvaglkbgakgfsimgvlguouibrklgvagv
fsobrworivbrklgkpgnriujggSwklgqmrimgoubgsagavtgbmragrlgwvaarlx,gbmvbgqu
 uvogor.uzvootgqrbmgvgfvlgkpgiklairuliugqmulgqugwzkwkaugbkgmrfgakfu
 rpprisobtgrlgikslbuzwkraugkpgnriu;g.sbgqmulgqugamsbgmrfgswg.ubqrhbgbqk
nriua,gmugragwsbgbkgvgmvz gimkriugvagKzrxulgqvagurbmuzgbkgr kovbzraugkz
bkgasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugivzlvootgv.sau g.tgvgxzuvbgUbmrkwrvlgaovnugbmut
.zksxmbgbkgmrfjggMugas.frbbu gbkgbmugprzabgikl rbrkl,gvl gqzklxot,gwukwou
avtjggTubgbmkaugqkfulgkpgkszgbrfuagvzuglkbgfsimgksb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
uzzkz,gqmkgwzkbuabgbmutgmv gzvbmuzg.sz ulgbmurzgiklairuliuagqrbmgbulgful
bmvlgklugfvaaj

Rpgrbg.ugrl raizubrklgakgbkgws.oramgklu’aguzzkza,gtubgbmuzugraglkgxzuvb
 vlxuzgbmvbgrbgwvaagrlbkguhvfwougvl gisabkf;gpkzgVzrabklgavr ,ggbmvbgbmu
qrl agfulgfkabgpuvzgvzugbmkaugbmvbgovtgbmufgkwuljggQugfsabgbsicgswgbmra
zr risoksagzvxgbmvbgmr uagkszgfvlluza:gbmutgaul gbmurzgiklairuliuagbkgbmu
abuqa,gvl gcuuwgvgabvzimu gikslbulvliu:gunulgbzvrbkzagvl gvaavaarla
uawksaugbmugovqagkpgiuzufklt,gvl gbmuzugprhgbmurzg sbtjggAkgbmvbglurbmuz
ivlgrlysabriugikfwovrlgkpgrlirnrorbt,glkzgfvoriugkpgrl raizubrkljgg‘Bra
wrbtg.sbgvg.v gfvlgamkso g.ugvgpkkogbkg.kkb,gvl gbmvbgksbqvz g uiulit
amkso gwvoorvbugmragnriu:gbmragzksxm-ivabgklotgvwwuzbvrlagbkgvgxkk gvl 
aksl gqvoo,gbmvbg uauznuagbkg.ugwzuauznu gvl gqmrbu j

RlgpvnkszgkpgbmugMsxsulkba,gqmkgikl uflgkszgvszrisovzgvl gwzrnvbu
iklpuaarkl,gRgiklpuaagftauopgrlgws.ori,gzuorxrksaotgvl gwszuot:gAbj
Vsxsabrl,gKzrxubr,gvl gMrwwkizvbuagmvnugws.oramu gbmuguzzkzagkpgbmurz
kwrlrkla;gR,gfkzuknuz,gkpgftgfvlluzajggRgvfgxzuu tgkpgfvcrlxgftauop
clkql,gvl gRgivzuglkbgbkgmkqgfvlt,gwzknr u grbg.ugbzsot;gkzgbkgavt
.ubbuz,gRgmslxuzgpkzglkbmrlx;g.sbgRgfkzbvootgmvbugbkg.ugfrabvculg.tgbmkau
qmkgmvwwulgbkgouvzlgftglvfujggMugqmkg kuagvoogbmrlxagpkzgmklkszgvl 
xokzt,gqmvbgivlgmugbmrlcgbkgxvrlg.tgamuqrlxgmrfauopgbkgbmugqkzo grlgv
nrdkz,gvl g.tgikliuvorlxgmragbzsug.urlxgpzkfgbmugwukwou?ggWzvraugv
msfw.vicgpkzgmragabvbszu,gmugmvagzuvaklgbkgbvcugrbgpkzgvlgvppzklb:
rpgtksgvzugvgikqvz ,gvl gfulgikfful gtksgpkzgtkszgnvoksz,gragrbgkpgtks
bmutgawuvc?ggBmutgbvcugtksgpkzgvlkbmuzjggRgamkso gorcugmrfgvagquoogqmk
xokzrpruagmrfauopgrlgbmugikfworfulbagvl giklxuuagbmvbgvzugfv ugmrfgvagrp
mugquzugfvabuzgkpgbmugikfwvlt,gqmulgmugragklugkpgbmugouvabgkpgbmugbzvrlj
Vzimuovsa,gcrlxgkpgFviu kl,gqvocrlxgvoklxgbmugabzuub,gakfu.k tgbmzuq
qvbuzgklgmragmuv ,gqmrimgbmutgqmkgquzugqrbmgmrfgavr gmugksxmbgbkgwslram:
“Vtu,g.sb,”gavr gmu,g“qmkunuzgrbgqva,gmug r glkbgbmzkqgbmugqvbuzgswklgfu,
.sbgswklgmrfgqmkfgmugbkkcgfugbkg.uj”ggAkizvbuag.urlxgbko gbmvbgwukwou
awkcugroogkpgmrf,g“Lkbgvbgvoo,”gavr gmu,g“bmuzugraglkbmrlx,grlgfugkpgqmvb
bmutgavtj”

Pkzgftgwvzb,grpgvltgklugamkso gzuikfful gfugvagvgxkk gwrokb,gvag.urlx
nuztgfk uabgkzgnuztgimvabu,gRgamkso gkqugmrfglkgbmvlca;gvl gak,gqmkunuz
amkso givoogfugbzvrbkz,gzk..uz,gkzg zslcvz ,gRgamkso g.ugvagorbbou
ikliuzlu jggBmutgqmkg kglkbgzrxmbotgclkqgbmufauonua,gfvtgpuu gbmufauonua
qrbmgpvoaugvwwzk.vbrkla;glkbgR,gqmkgauugftauop,gvl gqmkguhvfrlugftauop
unulgbkgftgnuztg.kquoa,gvl gqmkgnuztgquoogclkqgqmvbgragftg sujggRgvf
iklbulbgbkg.ugouaagikfful u ,gwzknr u gRgvfg.ubbuzgclkqljggRgfvtg.u
zuwsbu gvgqraugfvlgrlgasimgvgakzbgkpgqra kfgvagRgbvcugbkg.ugpkootj
Rgvfgnuhu gbmvbgftgUaavtagklotgauznugbmugov ruagpkzgvgikffklgwruiugkp
pszlrbszu,gvl gvgwruiugpkzgbmugmvoo;gbmragimvwbuzgqroogfvcugfugwvzbgkp
bmugqvbuz-iokaubjggRgoknugbkgbzvpprigqrbmgbmufgvgorbbougrlgwzrnvbu;
ws.origiklnuzavbrklgragqrbmksbgpvnkszgvl gqrbmksbgavnkszjggRlgpvzuquooa,
qugkpbuluzgbmvlglkbgmuvbgkszgvppuibrklagbkqvz agbmugbmrlxagqugbvcugouvnu
kp;gRgbvcugftgovabgouvnugkpgbmugwouvaszuagkpgbmragqkzo :gbmuaugvzugksz
ovabguf.zviuaj

.sbgoubgsagikfugbkgftgas.yuib:gqmvbgmvagbmugvibgkpgxuluzvbrkl,gak
lvbszvo,gakgluiuaavzt,gvl gakgysab,g klugbkgful,gbkg.ugvgbmrlxglkbgbk
.ugawkculgkpgqrbmksbg.osamrlx,gvl gbkg.uguhios u gpzkfgvoogauzrksagvl 
fk uzvbug raikszau?gggQug.ko otgwzklksliugcroo,gzk.,g.ubzvt,gvl gbmvbgqu
 vzugklotgbkg kg.ubqrhbgbmugbuubmjggRagrbgbkgavt,gbmugouaagquguhwul grl
qkz a,gqugfvtgwvtgakgfsimgbmugfkzugrlgbmrlcrlx?ggPkzgrbgragiuzbvrlgbmvb
bmugqkz agouvabgrlgsau,gfkabgauo kfgqzrbbul,gvl g.uabgcuwbgrl,gvzugbmu
.uabgvl gfkabgxuluzvootgclkql:glkgvxu,glkgfvlluza,gvzugrxlkzvlbgkpgbmuf,
lkgfkzugbmvlgbmugqkz g.zuv gbmutgrfwzrlbgbmufauonuagrlgunuztgklugqrbmksb
.urlx,guhwzuaau ,gqrbmksbgnkriu,gvl gqrbmksbgprxszu;gvl gbmugauhgbmvb
fkabgwzvibrauagrbgrag.ksl gbkgavtgouvabgkpgrbjgg‘Bragvlgvibgbmvbgqugmvnu
woviu grlgbmugpzvlimraugkpgarouliu,gpzkfgqmrimgbkgbvcugrbgragvgizrfugunul
bkgviisaugvl gys xugrb;glurbmuzg vzugqugzuwzumul grbg.sbg.tgwuzrwmzvara
vl gwribszujggVgxzuvbgpvnkszgbkgvgizrfrlvogbkg.ugakguhuizv.ougbmvb
ysabriugbmrlcagrbgslysabgbkgbksimgvl gauugmrf;gpzuu,gvl gavpug.tgbmu
.uluprbgkpgbmugaunuzrbtgkpgmragikl uflvbrkljggRagrbglkbgmuzugvagrlgfvbbuz
kpg.kkca,gbmvbgauoog.ubbuzgvl g.uikfugfkzugws.origpkzg.urlxgaswwzuaau ?
Pkzgftgwvzb,gRgqroogbvcugVzrabkbougvbgmragqkz ,gqmkgavta,gbmvb
“.vampsoluaagragvlgkzlvfulbgbkgtksbm,g.sbgvgzuwzkvimgbkgko gvxuj”ggBmuau
nuzauagvzugwzuvimu grlgbmugvlirulbgaimkko,gvgaimkkogbmvbgRgfsimgfkzu
v muzugbkgbmvlgbmugfk uzl:grbagnrzbsuagvwwuvzgbkgfugbkg.ugxzuvbuz,gvl 
bmugnriuagouaa:

gggggggggggggg“IushgesrgwvzgbzkwgpstvlbgNulsaguabzrnulb,
gggggggggggggggPvrooulbgvsbvlbgesugiusohgesrgbzkwgovgastnulbj”

ggggg[“Bmutguzzgvagfsimgqmkgbkkgfsimgpkz.uvzgNulsa,gvagbmutgqmkgvzugbkk
gggggpzuesulbgrlgmuzgzrbuaj”--Vgbzvlaovbrklg.tgVftkbgpzkfgWosbvzim,gV
gggggwmrokakwmuzgamkso giklnuzaugqrbmgwzrliuaj]

gggggggggggggg“Bs,g uv,gzuzsfglvbszvfgakovgxs.uzlva,
gggggggggggggggLuigarlugbkgesriesvfg rvagrlgosfrlragkzva
gggggggggggggggUhkzrbsz,gluesugprbgovubsf,gluigvfv.rougesr esvfj”

ggggg[“Xk  uaa,gabroogbmksgvoklugxknuzluabglvbszu,glkzgqrbmksbgbmuu
gggggvltbmrlxgikfuagrlbkgorxmb;glkbmrlxgragwouvavlb,glkbmrlxgyktpsoj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grjg22j]

Rgclkqglkbgqmkgikso gaubgWvoovagvl gbmugFsauagvbgnvzrvliugqrbmgNulsa,gvl 
fvcugbmufgiko gbkqvz agOknu;g.sbgRgauuglkg urbruagakgquoogfub,gkzgbmvb
vzugfkzugrl u.bu gbkgklugvlkbmuzjggQmkgqroog uwzrnugbmugFsauagkpgvfkzksa
rfvxrlvbrkla,gqroogzk.gbmufgkpgbmug.uabgulbuzbvrlfulbgbmutgmvnu,gvl gkp
bmuglk.ouabgfvbbuzgkpgbmurzgqkzc:gvl gqmkgqroogfvcugOknugokaugbmu
ikffslrivbrklgvl gauznriugkpgwkuat,gqroog ravzfgmrfgkpgmrag.uabgquvwkla:
.tgbmragfuvlagbmutgimvzxugbmugxk gkpgpvfrorvzrbtgvl gxkk gqroo,gvl gbmu
wzkbuibrlxgxk  uaauagkpgmsfvlrbtgvl gysabriu,gqrbmgbmugnriugkp
rlxzvbrbs ugvl gslbmvlcpsoluaajggRgmvnuglkbg.uulgakgoklxgivamruzu gpzkf
bmugabvbugvl gauznriugkpgbmragxk ,gbmvbgftgfufkztgraglkbgabroogwuzpuibgrl
mragpkziugvl gnvosu:

ggggggggggggggg“Vxlkaikgnubuzragnuabrxrvgpovffvu;”

ggggg[“Rgzuikxlraugnuabrxuagkpgftgko gpovfuj”--VUlur j,grnjg23j]

Bmuzugvzugtubgakfugzufvrlagkpgmuvbgvl gufkbrklgvpbuzgbmugpunuz:

gggggggggg“Luigfrmrg uprirvbgivokzgmri,gmrufvlbr.sagvllra!”

ggggg[“Lkzgoubgbmragmuvbgkpgtksbmgpvrogfugrlgftgqrlbuzgtuvzaj”]

Qrbmuzu gvl g zkkwrlxgvagRgvf,gRgpuuogtubgakfugzufvrlagkpgbmugwvab
vz ksz:

gggggggggggggg“Esvogo’vobkgUxuk,gwuzgbmugVesroklugkgLkbk
gggggggggggggggIuaar,gbmugbsbbkgwzrfvgrognkoaugubgaikaau,
gggggggggggggggLklg‘agviimubvgurgwuzk;gfv’ogasklkgu’ogfkbk
gggggggggggggggZrbrulg uogo’kl ugvlikgvxrbvbugugxzkaau:”

gggggggggg[“VagVuxuvlgauva,gqmulgabkzfag.ugivofu gvxvrl,
ggggggggggBmvbgzkoou gbmurzgbsf.orlxgqvnuagqrbmgbzks.oksag.ovaba,
gggggggggg kgtubgkpgbufwuabagwvaau gakfugamkqgzubvrl,
ggggggggggVl gmuzugvl gbmuzugbmurzgaquoorlxg.rookqagivabj”--Pvrzpvhj]

.sbgpzkfgqmvbgRgsl uzabvl gkpgrb,gbmugpkziugvl gwkquzgkpgbmragxk gvzu
fkzugornuotgvl gvlrfvbu grlgbmugwribszugkpgwkuatgbmvlgrlgbmurzgkql
uaauliu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Ubgnuzasag rxrbkagmv.ub:”

gggggggggg[“Nuzaugmvagprlxuzaj”--Vobuzu gpzkfgYsnulvo,grnjg196j]

rbgmvagRgclkqglkbgqmvbgcrl gkpgvrz,gfkzugvfkzksagbmvlgoknugrbauopjggNulsa
raglkbgakg.uvsbrpso,glvcu ,gvornu,gvl gwvlbrlx,gvagamugragmuzugrlgNrzxro:

ggggggggg“ rhuzvb;gubglrnuragmrligvbesugmrlig rnvgoviuzbra
ggggggggggIslibvlbufgvfwouhsgfkoorgpknubjggRoougzuwulbu
ggggggggggViiuwrbgakorbvfgpovffvf;glkbsaesugfu soova
ggggggggggRlbzvnrbgivokz,gubgov.upvibvgwuzgkaavgisiszzrb
ggggggggggLklgauisagvbesugkorfgbklrbzs,gisfgzswbvgikzsaik
ggggggggggRxluvgzrfvgfrivlagwuziszzrbgosfrluglrf.kaj
ggggggggggjgjgjgjgjgjggUvgnuz.vgokessbsa,
ggggggggggKwbvbkag u rbgvfwouhsa;gwovir sfesugwubrnrb
ggggggggggIklysxragrlpsasagxzufrkgwuzgfuf.zvgakwkzufj”

ggggg[“Bmugxk  uaagawkcu,gvl gbmzkqrlxgzksl gmrfgmuzgalkqtgvzfagrlgakpb
ggggguf.zviua,givzuaauagmrfgmuarbvbrlxjggAs  ulotgmugivsxmbgbmugqklbu 
gggggpovfu,gvl gbmugquoo-clkqlgqvzfbmgwruziu gmragfvzzkq,gvl gzvl
gggggbmzroorlxgbmzksxmgmragamvculg.klua:gysabgvagqmulgvbgbrfua,gqrbm
gggggbmsl uz,gvgabzuvfgkpgprzugrlgorxmblrlxgpovamuagamkkbagvizkaagbmu
gggggacruajggMvnrlxgawkculgbmuaugqkz a,gmugxvnugmuzgbmugqramu guf.zviu,
gggggvl grlgbmug.kakfgkpgmragawksaugaksxmbgwovir gaouuwj”
gggggg--VUlur ,gnrrrjgg387gvl g392j]

VoogbmvbgRgprl gpvsobgqrbmgrlgiklar uzrlxgrbgra,gbmvbgmugmvagzuwzuaulbu 
muzgvgorbbougbkkgwvaarklvbugpkzgvgfvzzru gNulsa;grlgbmrag raizuubgcrl gkp
iksworlx,gbmugvwwubrbugraglkbgsasvootgakgqvlbkl,g.sbgfkzugxzvnugvl g sooj
Oknugmvbuagbmvbgwukwougamkso gmko gkpgvltg.sbgrbauop,gvl gxkuag.sb
pvrlbotgbkgqkzcgrlgpvfrorvzrbruag uzrnu gpzkfgvltgkbmuzgbrbou,gva
fvzzrvxugra:gvoorvliu,g kqzt,gbmuzurlgaqvtg.tgzuvakl,gvagfsimgkzgfkzu
bmvlgxzviugvl g.uvsbtjggFulg kglkbgfvzztgpkzgbmufauonua,goubgbmufgavt
qmvbgbmutgqroo;gbmutgfvzztgvagfsimgkzgfkzugpkzgbmurzgwkabuzrbtgvl 
pvfrot;gbmugisabkfgvl grlbuzuabgkpgfvzzrvxugikliuzlgkszgzviugfsimgfkzu
bmvlgsa;gvl gbmuzupkzugrbgra,gbmvbgRgorcugbkgmvnugvgfvbimgivzzru gklg.tgv
bmrz gmvl gzvbmuzgbmvlgvgfvl’agkql,gvl g.tgvlkbmuzgfvl’agorcrlxgbmvlgbmvb
kpgbmugwvzbtgmrfauop;gvl gmkqgfsimgragvoogbmragkwwkarbugbkgbmu
iklnulbrklagkpgoknu?ggVl gvoakgrbgragvgcrl gkpgrliuabgbkgufwoktgrlgbmra
nuluzv.ougvl gavizu gvoorvliugbmugmuvbgvl guhbzvnvxvliugkpgvfkzksa
oriuliu,gvagRgbmrlcgRgmvnugavr guoauqmuzujggVgfvl,gavtagVzrabkbou,gfsab
vwwzkvimgmragqrpugqrbmgwzs uliugvl gbufwuzvliu,gouabgrlg uvorlxgbkk
ovairnrksaotgqrbmgmuz,gbmuguhbzufugwouvaszugfvcugmuzguhiuu gbmug.ksl agkp
zuvakljggQmvbgmugavtagswklgbmugviikslbgkpgiklairuliu,gbmugwmtarirvlagavt
swklgbmugviikslbgkpgmuvobm:g“bmvbgvgwouvaszuguhiuaarnuotgovairnrksa,
nkoswbsksa,gvl gpzuesulb,gfvcuagbmugauu gbkkgmkb,gvl gmrl uza
ikliuwbrkl”:g‘bragavr ,guoauqmuzu,gbmvbgbkgvgovlxsramrlxgrlbuzikszau,gva
bmraglvbszvootgra,gbkgaswwotgrbgqrbmgvg sugvl gpzsrbpsogmuvb,gvgfvlgfsab
 kgrbg.sbgauo kfgvl gvbgvwwzuirv.ougrlbuznvoa:

gggggggggg“EskgzvwrvbgarbrulagNuluzuf,grlbuzrsaesugzuikl vbj”

ggggg[“.sbgoubgmrfgbmrzabrotgalvbimgbmugyktagkpgoknugvl guliokaugbmufgrl
gggggmrag.kakfj”--Nrzxj,gXukzxj,grrrjg137j]

Rgauuglkgfvzzrvxuagqmuzugbmugiklysxvogikfwvbr.rorbtgakkluzgpvroagbmvl
bmkaugbmvbgqugiklbzvibgswklgbmugviikslbgkpg.uvsbtgvl gvfkzksag uarzua;
bmuzugamkso g.ugfkzugakor gvl giklabvlbgpksl vbrkl,gvl gbmutgamkso 
wzkiuu gqrbmgxzuvbuzgirzisfawuibrkl;gbmragpszrksagvz kszgragqkzbm
lkbmrlxj

Bmutgqmkgbmrlcgbmutgmklkszgfvzzrvxug.tgykrlrlxgoknugbkgrb,g k,gfubmrlca,
orcugbmkaugqmk,gbkgpvnkszgnrzbsu,gmko gbmvbglk.rorbtgraglkbmrlxguoaug.sb
nrzbsujggBmutgvzugrl uu gbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugakfugzuovbrklgbkgklugvlkbmuz,
.sbgbmuzugragvgxzuvbg uvogkpg rppuzuliu;gqugamkso glkbgakgfrhgbmurzglvfua
vl gbrboua;g‘bragvgqzklxgbkgbmufg.kbmgakgbkgiklpksl gbmufjggLk.rorbtgragv
.zvnugesvorbt,gvl gqrbmgxkk gzuvaklgrlbzk siu ;g.sbgpkzvafsimgvag‘bragv
esvorbtg uwul rlxgswklgkbmuza,gvl gfvtgmvwwulgrlgvgnrirksagwuzakl,grl
mrfauopglkbmrlx,g‘bragrlguabrfvbugrlprlrbuotg.uokqgnrzbsu’;

ggggg[“Rpglk.rorbtg.ugnrzbsu,grbgokauagrbagesvorbtgrlgvoogbmrlxagqmuzurl
ggggglkbgnrzbsksa:gvl grpgrbg.uglkbgnrzbsu,g‘bragvgafvoogfvbbuzj”
gggggg--Ovg.tstuzuj]

‘bragvgnrzbsu,grpgrbg.ugklu,gbmvbgragvzbrprirvogvl gvwwvzulb,g uwul rlx
swklgbrfugvl gpkzbslu:gnvzrksagrlgpkzf,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugikslbzt;gornrlx
vl gfkzbvo;gqrbmksbg.rzbm,gvagbmugzrnuzgLrou;gxuluvokxrivogvl gikffkl;
kpgasiiuaarklgvl garfrorbs u;g zvqlg.tgiklauesuliu,gvl gvgnuztgquvcgkluj
Clkqou xu,gabzulxbm,gxkk luaa,g.uvsbt,gzrimua,gvl gvoogkbmuzgesvorbrua,
pvoogrlbkgikffslrivbrklgvl gikffuziu,g.sbgbmragragiklasffvbu grlgrbauop,
vl gkpglkgsaugbkgbmugauznriugkpgkbmuzajggBmuzugqvagwzkwkau gbkgklugkpgksz
crlxagbmugimkriugkpgbqkgivl r vbuagpkzgbmugavfugikffvl ,gkpgqmkfgklugqva
vgxulboufvl,gbmugkbmuzglkb;gmugkz uzu gbmvb,gqrbmksbgzuawuibgbkgesvorbt,
bmutgamkso gimkkaugmrfgqmkgmv gbmugfkabgfuzrb;g.sbgqmuzugbmugqkzbmgkpgbmu
ikfwubrbkzagamkso gvwwuvzgbkg.ugulbrzuotguesvo,gbmutgamkso gmvnugzuawuib
bkg.rzbm:gbmragqvagysabotgbkgxrnugrbgrbagzvlcjggVgtkslxgfvlgslclkql,
ikfrlxgbkgVlbrxklsagbkgfvcugasrbgpkzgmragpvbmuz’agikffvl ,gvgnvorvlbgfvl
ovbuotg uv :g“Pzrul ,”gavr gmu,g“rlgasimgwzupuzfulbagvagbmuau,gRgmvnuglkb
akgfsimgzuxvz gbkgbmuglk.rorbtgkpgftgako ruzagvagbkgbmurzgwzkquaaj”
gVl ,grl uu ,grbgksxmbglkbgbkgxkgvagrbg r gqrbmgbmugkppriuzagkpgbmugcrlxa
kpgAwvzbv,gbzsfwubuza,gpr  ouza,gikkca,gbmugimro zulgkpgqmkfgvoqvta
asiiuu u gbkgbmurzgwoviua,gmkqgrxlkzvlbgakunuz,gvl gquzugwzupuzzu g.upkzu
bmugfkabguhwuzruliu grlgbmugbzv ujggBmutgkpgIvorisbgfvcugkpglk.ouagvgakzb
kpgaswuzmsfvlgwuzakla:gbmutgvzugrlbuz ribu gfvzzrvxugvl gvoog.sbgqvzorcu
ufwoktfulba:gbmutgfvtgmvnugkpgiklis.rluagbmurzgproo,gvl gbmugqkfulgva
fvltgoknuza,gqrbmksbg.urlxgyuvoksagkpgklugvlkbmuz;g.sbg‘bragvgivwrbvogvl 
rzzufraar.ougizrfugbkgikswougqrbmgvgwuzaklgkpgfuvluzgikl rbrklagbmvl
bmufauonua;gvl gbmutgbmrlcgbmufauonuagwkoosbu ,grpgbmutgmvnug.sbgbksimu 
klugrlgqvocrlxgvoklx;gvl gaswwkarlxgbmurzglk.rorbtgbkg.ugfvznuooksaot
rlbuzuabu gvl grlyszu grlgrb,gcroogasimgvagklotgvwwzkvimgvgorbbougbkk
luvzgbmuf:grlakfsimgbmvbgbmugrxlk.ougvzugk.orxu gbkgiztgksbgvagbmutgqvoc,
orcugbmugxkl koruzagkpgNulriu,gvbgbmugbszlrlxagkpgabzuubagpkzgpuvzgkp
ykaborlx;gvl gbmuglk.ouagikffvl gbmufgbkgabuwgvar ugbkgqmvbgwvzbgbmut
wouvau:g.tgbmvbgfuvlagbmuaugvnkr gqmvbgbmutgzuwsbugvgwuzwubsvogrxlkfrlt,
bmkaugiuzbvrlg uvbmjggLkgbrfu,glkgpvnkszgkpgbmugwzrliu,glkgkppriu,gkz
nrzbsu,gkzgzrimua,givlgunuzgwzunvrogbkgfvcugvgwou.urvlg.uikfuglk.ou:gbk
qmrimgbmragisabkfgiklbzr.sbua,gbmvbgfvzzrvxuagvzugrlbuz ribu g.ubqrhb
 rppuzulbgbzv ua;gbmug vsxmbuzgkpgklugkpgbmugikz qvrluza’gxro graglkb
wuzfrbbu gbkgfvzztgvgivzwulbuz;gvl gwvzulbagvzugk.orxu gbkgbzvrlgswgbmurz
imro zulgwzuirauotgrlgbmurzgkqlgivoorlxa,gvl glkbgwsbgbmufgbkgvltgkbmuz
bzv u;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmug rabrlibrklgvl giklbrlsvliugkpgbmurzgpkzbslua
vzugfvrlbvrlu j

Vgxkk gfvzzrvxu,grpgbmuzug.ugvltgasim,gzuyuibagbmugikfwvltgvl gikl rbrkla
kpgoknu,gvl gbzruagbkgzuwzuaulbgbmkaugkpgpzrul amrwjgg‘Bragvgaquub
akirubtgkpgorpu,gpsoogkpgiklabvlit,gbzsab,gvl gvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkp
saupsogvl gakor gauznriuagvl gfsbsvogk.orxvbrkla;gqmrimgvltgqkfvlgqmkgmva
vgzrxmbgbvabu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Kwbvbkgesvfgyslhrbgosfrlugbvu v”--

ggggg[“Qmkfgbmugfvzzrvxugbkzimgmvagykrlu gqrbmgbmug uarzu gorxmbj”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohrnjg79j]

qkso g.ugokbmgbkgauznugmuzgmsa.vl grlgesvorbtgkpgvgfrabzuaajggRpgamug.u
ok xu grlgmragvppuibrklgvagvgqrpu,gamugragfkzugmklkszv.otgvl gauiszuot
woviu jggQmulgmugwszwkzbagbkg.ugrlgoknugqrbmgvlkbmuz,gvl gqkzcagvoogmu
ivlgbkgk.bvrlgmrag uarzu,goubgvltgklug.sbgvacgmrf,gklgqmrimgmugmv gzvbmuz
vg raxzviugamkso gpvoo,gmragqrpugkzgmragfrabzuaa,gqmrimgkpgbmurz
frapkzbsluagqkso gfkabgvpporibgmrf,gvl gbkgqmrimgkpgbmufgmugqramuagbmu
fkabgxzvl usz,gbmugvlaquzgbkgbmuaugesuabrklagragksbgkpg rawsbugrlgvgaksl 
fvzzrvxuj

Vl gbmvbgakgpuqgvzugk.auznu gbkg.ugmvwwt,gragvgbkculgkpgrbagwzriugvl 
nvosujggRpgquoogpkzfu gvl gzrxmbotgbvcul,g‘bragbmug.uabgkpgvoogmsfvl
akirubrua;gqugivllkbgornugqrbmksbgrb,gvl gtubgqug kglkbmrlxg.sbg uiztgrbj
Rbgmvwwula,gvagqrbmgivxua,gbmug.rz agqrbmksbg uawvrzgbkgxubgrl,gvl gbmkau
qrbmrlg uawvrzgkpgxubbrlxgksbjggAkizvbuag.urlxgvacu ,gqmubmuzgrbgqvagfkzu
ikffk rksagbkgbvcugvgqrpugkzglkb,g“Oubgvgfvlgbvcugqmrimgikszaugmugqroo,”
gavr gmu;g“mugqroogzuwulbj”gg‘Bragvgiklbzvibgbkgqmrimgbmugikffkl
avtrlx:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Mkfkgmkfrlrgvsbg usagvsbgoswsa,”

gggggggggg[“Fvlgbkgfvlgragurbmuzgvgxk gkzgvgqkopj”--Uzvafsa,gV vxj]

fvtgnuztgprbotg.ugvwworu ;gbmuzugfsabg.ugvgikliszzuliugkpgfvltgesvorbrua
rlgbmugiklabzsibrkljggRbgragpksl glkqv vtagfkzugiklnulrulbgpkzgarfwougvl 
wou.urvlgaksoa,gqmuzug uorxmba,giszrkarbt,gvl gr ouluaag kglkbgakgfsim
 rabsz.grb;g.sbguhbzvnvxvlbgmsfksza,gasimgvagfrlu,gbmvbgmvbugvoogakzbagkp
k.orxvbrklgvl gzuabzvrlb,gvzuglkbgakgwzkwuzgpkzgrb:

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgfrmrg soiugfvxragzuakosbkgnrnuzugikookj”

gggggggggg[“Vl grbgragaquubgbkgfugbkgornugqrbmgvgokkaulu gluicj”
ggggggggggg--Waus kgXvoosa,grjg61j]

FrxmbgRgmvnugmv gftgkqlgqroo,gRgqkso glkbgmvnugfvzzru gQra kfgmuzauop,grp
amugqkso gmvnugmv gfujgg.sbg‘bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugbkgunv ugrb;gbmugikffkl
isabkfgvl gsavliugkpgorpugqroogmvnugrbgakjggBmugfkabgkpgftgvibrklagvzu
xsr u g.tguhvfwou,glkbg.tgimkriu,gvl gtubgRg r glkbgxkgbkgrbgkpgftgkql
nkoslbvztgfkbrkl;gRgqvagou gvl g zvqlgbkgrbg.tguhbzrlarigkiivarkla;gpkz
lkbgklotgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugrlikffk rksagrlgbmufauonua,g.sbgvoakgbmrlxa
mkqunuzgsxot,gnrirksa,gvl gbkg.ugvnkr u ,gfvtg.ugzul uzu gviiuwbv.oug.t
akfugikl rbrklgkzgviir ulb;gakgslabuv tgvl gnvrlgragvoogmsfvlgzuakosbrkl!
vl gRgqvagwuzasv u gbkgrb,gqmulgqkzaugwzuwvzu gvl gouaagbzvibv.ougbmvlgR
vfgvbgwzuaulb,gbmvbgRgmvnugbzru gqmvbgrbgra:gvl gvagxzuvbgvgor.uzbrlugva
Rgvfgbvculgbkg.u,gRgmvnugrlgbzsbmgfkzugabzribotgk.auznu gbmugovqagkp
fvzzrvxu,gbmvlgRgurbmuzgwzkfrau gkzguhwuibu jgg‘Bragrlgnvrlgbkgcric,gqmul
vgfvlgmvagkliugwsbgklgmragpubbuza:gvgfvlgfsabgwzs ulbotgfvlvxugmra
or.uzbt;g.sbgmvnrlxgkliugas.frbbu gbkgk.orxvbrkl,gmugfsabgiklprlugmrfauop
qrbmrlgbmugovqagkpgikffklg sbt,gvbgouvab,g kgqmvbgmugivlgbkqvz agrbj
Bmutgqmkgulxvxugrlgbmragiklbzvib,gqrbmgvg uarxlgbkgivzztgbmufauonuagrlgrb
qrbmgmvbzu gvl giklbufwb,g kgvlgslysabgvl grliklnulrulbgbmrlx;gvl gbmu
prlugzsougbmvbgRgmuvzgwvaagpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl gvfklxabgbmugqkful,gvagv
avizu gkzviou:

ggggg[“Auznugbmtgmsa.vl gvagbmtgfvabuz,g.sbgxsvz gbmtauopgvxvrlabgmrfgva
gggggpzkfgvgbzvrbkzj”]

qmrimgragbkgavt,gikfwkzbgbmtauopgbkqvz agmrfgqrbmgvg raauf.ou ,grlrfrivo,
vl g rabzsabpsogzunuzuliug(vgiztgkpgqvzgvl g uprvliu),graguesvoot
rlyszrksagvl gmvz jggRgvfgbkkgfro gpkzgasimgzsxxu g uarxla:gbkgavtgbmu
bzsbm,gRgvfglkbgvzzrnu gbkgbmvbgwuzpuibrklgkpgv.rorbtgvl gzuprlufulbgkp
qrb,gbkgiklpksl gzuvaklgqrbmgrlysabriu,gvl gbkgovsxmgvbgvoogzsougvl 
kz uzgbmvbg kuaglkbgwouvaugftgwvovbu;g.uivsaugRgmvbugaswuzabrbrkl,gRg k
lkbgwzuaulbotgzslgrlbkgbmugiklbzvztguhbzufugkpgrzzuorxrklj

ggggg(Rpgvgfvlgmvbugaswuzabrbrklgmugivllkbgoknugzuorxrkljgg jQj)

Rpgvgfvlg kuaglkbgvoqvtagwuzpkzfgmrag sbt,gmugksxmbgvbgouvabgbkgoknugvl 
viclkqou xugrb;g‘bragbzuvimuztgbkgfvzztgqrbmksbguawksarlxj

Oubgsagwzkiuu j

Kszgwkubgzuwzuaulbagvgfvzzrvxugmvwwtgrlgvgxkk gviikz gqmuzurl
lunuzbmuouaagbmuzugraglkbgfsimgoktvobtjgg kuagmugfuvl,gbmvbgrbgraglkb
rfwkaar.oug.sbgvgqkfvlgfvtgxrnugbmugzurlagbkgmuzgkqlgwvaarkl,gvl gtruo 
bkgbmugrfwkzbslrbruagkpgoknu,gvl gtubgzuauznugakfug sbtgbkqvz gfvzzrvxu,
vl gbmvbgrbgfvtg.ugmszb,gqrbmksbg.urlxgbkbvootg.zkcul?ggVgauznrlxgfvlgfvt
imuvbgmragfvabuz,gqmkfglunuzbmuouaagmug kuaglkbgmvbujgg.uvsbt,
kwwkzbslrbt,gvl g uabrltg(pkzg uabrltgmvagvoakgvgmvl grl’b),

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Pvbsfguabgrlgwvzbr.sagroora
ggggggggggEsvagarlsagv.aikl rb;glvf,gargbr.rgar uzvgiuaaulb,
ggggggggggLrogpvirubgoklxrgfulaszvgrlikxlrbvgluznr;”

ggggg[“Bmuzugragvgpvbvorbtgv.ksbgbmugmr  ulgwvzba:goubglvbszugmvnu
gggggul kqu gtksgmkqunuzgor.uzvoot,g‘bragkpglkgsau,grpgtkszgxkk gabvz
gggggpvroagtksgrlgbmuglricgkpgbrfuj”--Ysnulvo,grhjg32j]

mvnugvbbvimu gmuzgbkgvgabzvlxuz;gbmksxmglkbgakgqmkoot,gwuzv nulbszu,g.sb
bmvbgamugfvtgmvnugakfugzufvrlagkpgcrl luaagpkzgmuzgmsa.vl jggBmutgvzugbqk
 uarxla,gbmvbgmvnugaunuzvogwvbmagouv rlxgbkgbmuf,gqrbmksbg.urlx
iklpksl u gqrbmgklugvlkbmuz;gvgqkfvlgfvtgtruo gbkgvgfvlgamugqkso g.tglk
fuvlagmvnugfvzzru ,glkbgklotgpkzgbmugikl rbrklgkpgmragpkzbslu,g.sbgpkz
bmkaugvoakgkpgmragwuzakljggPuqgfulgmvnugfv ugvgqrpugkpgvgfrabzuaa,gqmk
mvnuglkbgzuwulbu grbjggVl gunulgrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ,gqmvbgvlgslmvwwtgorpu
 kuagYswrbuzgouv gqrbmgmra,gqmkfgmugmv gprzabgulyktu gvagvgfrabzuaa!
‘Bra,gvagbmugwzknuz.gzsla,gbkg.upksogvg.vacubgvl gbmulgwsbgrbgswklgklu’a
muv jggRgmvnugrlgftgbrfu,grlgvgxkk gpvfrot,gauulgoknugamvfupsootgvl 
 ramkluabotgiszu g.tgfvzzrvxu:gbmugiklar uzvbrklagvzugqr uotg rppuzulbj
Qugoknugvbgkliu,gqrbmksbgvltgbru,gbqkgbmrlxagiklbzvztgrlgbmufauonuaj

Akizvbuagqvagqklbgbkgavt,gbmvbgbmugirbtgkpgVbmulagwouvau ,gvagov ruag k
qmkfgfulgikszbgpkzgoknu;gunuztgklugoknu gbkgikfugbmrbmuzgbkgbvcugvgbszl,
vl gwvaagvqvtgmragbrfu;g.sbglkgklugorcu grbgakgquoogvagbkguawksaugrb,
bmvbgra,gbkgrlmv.rbgbmuzu,gvl gbkgfvcugrbgmragiklabvlbgzuar uliujggRgmvnu
.uulgnuhu gbkgauugmsa.vl agmvbugbmurzgqrnuagklotg.uivsaugbmutgbmufauonua
 kgbmufgqzklx;gqugamkso glkb,gvbgvoogunulba,gfubmrlca,goknugbmufgbmugouaa
pkzgkszgkqlgpvsoba;gbmutgamkso gvbgouvab,gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgzuwulbvliu
vl gikfwvaarkl,g.ug uvzuzgbkgsaj

Bmutgvzug rppuzulbgul a,gmugavta,gvl gtubgrlgakfugakzbgikfwvbr.ou;
fvzzrvxugmvagsbrorbt,gysabriu,gmklksz,gvl giklabvlitgpkzgrbagamvzu;
vgpovb,g.sbgfkzugslrnuzavogwouvaszu:goknugpksl agrbauopgqmkootgswkl
wouvaszu,gvl ,grl uu ,gmvagrbgfkzugpsoo,gornuot,gvl gamvzw;gvgwouvaszu
rlpovfu g.tg rpprisobt;gbmuzugfsabg.ugrlgrbgabrlxgvl gafvzb:g‘braglk
oklxuzgoknu,grpgqrbmksbg vzbagvl gprzujggBmug.kslbtgkpgov ruagragbkk
wzkpsaugrlgfvzzrvxu,gvl g sooagbmugwkrlbgkpgvppuibrklgvl g uarzu:gbk
unv ugqmrimgrliklnulruliu,g kg.sbgk.auznugqmvbgwvrlagOtiszxsagvl gWovbk
bvcugrlgbmurzgovqaj

Qkfulgvzuglkbgbkg.ovfugvbgvoo,gqmulgbmutgzupsaugbmugzsouagkpgorpugbmvb
vzugrlbzk siu grlbkgbmugqkzo ,gpkzvafsimgvagbmugfulgfvcugbmufgqrbmksb
bmurzgmuowjggBmuzugraglvbszvootgiklbulbrklgvl g.zvqorlxg.ubqrhbgbmufgvl 
sa;gvl gbmugabzribuabgpzrul amrwgqugmvnugqrbmgbmufgragtubgfrhu gqrbm
bsfsobgvl gbufwuabjggRlgbmugkwrlrklgkpgkszgvsbmkz,gqug uvo
rliklar uzvbuotgqrbmgbmufgrlgbmra:gvpbuzgqugmvnug raiknuzu gbmvbgbmut
vzu,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gfkzugv.ougvl gvz ulbgrlgbmugwzvibriugkpgoknu
bmvlgqu,gvl gbmvbgbmugko gwzruabgbuabrpru gvagfsim,gqmkgmv g.uulgklu
qmrougvgfvl,gvl gbmulgvgqkfvl:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nulsagmsriguzvbgsbzvesuglkbv:”

ggggggggggggggg[“.kbmgvawuibagkpgoknugquzugclkqlgbkgmrf,”
gggggggggggggggg--BrzuarvajgKnr jggFubvfj,grrrjg323j]

vl gfkzuknuz,gbmvbgqugmvnugouvzlu gpzkfgbmurzgkqlgfksbmagbmugwzkkpgbmvb,
rlgaunuzvogvxua,gqvagfv ug.tgvlgUfwuzkzgvl gUfwzuaagkpgZkfu,--[Wzkiosaj]
--.kbmgpvfksagpkzgv.rorbtgrlgbmvbgvppvrz!ggpkzgmugrlgkluglrxmbg upokquzu 
bulgAvzfvbrvlgnrzxrlagqmkgquzugmragivwbrnua:g.sbgamugmv gprnu-vl -bqulbt
.ksbagrlgkluglrxmb,gimvlxrlxgmuzgfvlgviikz rlxgbkgmuzgluu gvl gorcrlx;

gggggggggggggggggggg“V msigvz ulagzrxr vugbulbrxrlugnsonvu
gggggggggggggggUbgovaavbvgnrzra,glkl sfgavbrvbv,gzuiuaarb:”

gggggggggg[“Vz ulbgabroo,gamugzubrzu ,gpvbrxsu ,g.sbglkbgavbrapru j”
ggggggggggg--Ysnulvo,gnrjg128j]

vl gbmvbgswklgbmug rawsbugqmrimgmvwwulu grlgIvbvoslv,gqmuzurlgvgqrpu
ikfwovrlrlxgkpgmuzgmsa.vl ’agbkkgpzuesulbgv  zuaauagbkgmuz,glkbgakgfsim,
vagRgikliurnu,gbmvbgamugqvagrlikffk vbu g.tgrbg(pkzgRg.uorunuglkgfrzvioua
ksbgkpgzuorxrkl)gvagsl uzgbmragwzubuliu,gbkgiszbvrogvl gisz.grlgbmra,
qmrimgragbmugpsl vfulbvogvibgkpgfvzzrvxu,gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgmsa.vl agknuz
bmurzgqrnua,gvl gbkgamuqgbmvbgbmurzgpzkqvz luaagvl gfvorxlrbtgxkg.utkl 
bmuglswbrvog.u ,gvl gawszlgsl uzgpkkbgunulgbmugxzviuagvl gaquubagkp
Nulsa;gbmugmsa.vl ,gvgfvlgbzsotg.zsbramgvl gsllvbszvo,gzuworu ,gbmvbgunul
klgpvabrlxg vtagmugikso glkbgas.arabgqrbmgouaagbmvlgbulgikszaua:
qmuzuswklgivfugksbgbmvbglkbv.ougaulbuliugkpgbmugEsuulgkpgVzzvxkl,g.t
qmrim,gvpbuzgfvbszug uor.uzvbrklgkpgmuzgiksliro,gbmragxkk gesuul,gbkgxrnu
vgzsougvl guhvfwougbkgvoogasiiuu rlxgvxuagkpgbmugfk uzvbrklgzuesrzu grl
vgysabgfvzzrvxu,gaubg kqlgarhgbrfuagvg vtgvagvgouxrbrfvbugvl gluiuaavzt
abrlb;gaszzul uzrlxgvl gesrbbrlxgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmugluu agvl g uarzuagkp
muzgauh,gbmvbgamugfrxmb,gamugavr ,guabv.oramgvlguvat,gvl giklauesulbot,gv
wuzfvlulbgvl grffsbv.ougzsoujggMuzuswklgbmug kibkzagiztgksb:gqmvbgfsab
bmugpufvougvwwubrbugvl gikliswraiuliug.u,gqmulgbmurzgzuvakl,gbmurz
zupkzfvbrklgvl gnrzbsu,gvzugbvhu gvbgasimgvgzvbu,giklar uzrlxgbmug rnuza
ys xfulbagkpgkszgvwwubrbua?ggpkzgAkokl,gfvabuzgkpgbmugovqgaimkko,gbvhua
sag.sbgvbgbmzuugvgfklbm,--bmvbgfulgfvtglkbgpvrogrlgwkrlbgkpgiklysxvo
pzuesulbvbrkl:gvpbuzgmvnrlx,gRgavt,g.uorunu gvl gwzuvimu gvoogbmra,gqugxk
vl gulykrlgbmufgiklbrlulitgpkzgbmurzgwvzbrisovzgamvzu,gvl gswklgbmugovab
vl guhbzufugwulvobruaj

Bmuzugraglkgwvaarklgakgmvz gbkgiklbul gqrbmgvagbmra,gqmrimgqugqkso gmvnu
bmufgklotgzuarab,glkbgarfwotgvagvlgkz rlvztgnriu,g.sbgvagvlguhuizv.ou
v.kfrlvbrkl,gqkzaugbmvlgrzzuorxrklgvl gwvzzrir u;gqmroabgqu,gvbgbmugavfu
brfu,gxkgbk’bgqrbmksbgkppuliugkzgzuwzkvimjggUnulgbmkaugvfklxabgsagqmk
mvnugbzru gbmuguhwuzrfulbgmvnugaspprirulbotgiklpuaau gqmvbg rpprisobt,gkz
zvbmuzgrfwkaar.rorbt,gbmutgmvnugpksl g.tgfvbuzrvogzufu ruagbkgas. su,
quvcul,gvl gikkogbmug.k tjggQu,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gqkso gmvnugbmufgvbgkliu
aksl ,gnrxkzksagwosfw,gmrxm-pu ,gvl gimvabu;gbmvbgragbkgavt,g.kbmgmkbgvl 
iko ;gpkzgbmugfvzzrvxu,gqmrimgqugbuoogbmufgragbkgcuuwgbmufgpzkfg.szlrlx,
rag.sbgafvoogzupzuamfulbgbkgbmuf,gvagqugkz uzgbmugfvbbuzjggRpgbmutgbvcu
klugqmkaugnrxkzksagvxugragtubg.krorlx,gmugqroog.ugwzks gbkgfvcugrbgclkql
uoauqmuzu;

ggggggggggggggggggg“Arbgbvl ufgws kz;gvsbguvfsagrlgysa;
ggggggggggggggggggggFsobragfulbsovgfroor.sagzu ufwbv,
ggggggggggggggggggggLklguabgmvuigbsv,g.vaau;gnul r rabr;”

ggggg[“Oubgbmuzug.ugakfugamvfu,gkzgqugamvoogxkgbkgovq:gtkszgnrxksz,
ggggg.ksxmbg.tgtkszgqrpugqrbmgfvltgbmksavl a,graglkgoklxuzgtksza:gbmks
gggggmvabgako grbj--“Fvzbrvo,ghrrjg90j]

Wkoufklgbmugwmrokakwmuzgqvagysabotg.tgmragqrpug.zksxmbg.upkzugbmugys xu
pkzgakqrlxgrlgvg.vzzulgpruo gbmugauu gbmvbgqvag sugbkgklugbmvbgqva
pzsrbpso:ggrp,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gbmutgbvcugvg uivtu gpuookq,gbmutgvzugrl
vgqkzaugikl rbrklgrlgfvzzrvxugbmvlgurbmuzgfvr agkzgqr kqajggQugbmrlcgbmuf
quoogwzknr u gpkz,g.uivsaugbmutgmvnugvgfvlgbkgorugqrbm,gvagbmugZkfvla
iklios u gIok rvgOvubv,gvgnuabvoglsl,gnrkovbu ,g.uivsaugIvorxsovgmv 
vwwzkvimu gmuz,gbmksxmgrbgqvag uiovzu gmug r glkgfkzug.sbgvwwzkvimgmuz:
.sb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gqug.tgbmvbgrlizuvaugbmurzgluiuaarbt,gpkzvafsimgva
bmugbksimgvl gikfwvltgkpgvltgfvlgqmvbunuzgzksauagbmurzg uarzua,gbmvbgrl
akorbs ugqkso g.ugfkzugesrubjggVl gbkgbmugul ,g‘bragorcuot,gbmvbgbmut
frxmbgzul uzgbmurzgimvabrbtgfkzugfuzrbkzrksag.tgbmragirzisfabvliugvl 
iklar uzvbrkl,g.kouaovagvl gCrlxugmragqrpu,gcrlxagkpgWkovl ,gnkqu grbg.t
fsbsvogiklaulb,g.urlxgrlg.u gbkxubmuz,gklgbmurzgnuztgqu  rlxg vt,gvl 
cuwbgbmurzgnkqgrlgawrbugkpgvoogfvbzrfklrvogiklnulruliuaj

Qugbzvrlgbmufgswgpzkfgbmurzgrlpvlitgbkgbmugbzvpprigkpgoknu;gbmurzgxzviu,
 zuaarlx,gclkqou xu,govlxsvxu,gvl gqmkougrlabzsibrklgbul gbmvbgqvt:gbmurz
xknuzluaauagrfwzrlbglkbmrlxgrlgbmufg.sbgbmugr uvgkpgoknu,grpgpkzglkbmrlx
uoaug.sbg.tgiklbrlsvootgzuwzuaulbrlxgrbgbkgbmuf,gbkgxrnugbmufgvg rabvabu
pkzgrbjggFtg vsxmbuz,gbmugklotgimro gRgmvnu,graglkqgkpgvlgvxugbmvb
pkzqvz gtkslxgqkfulgvzugvookqu gbkg.ugfvzzru gvb;gamugragkpgvgaokq,gbmrl,
vl gbul uzgikfwouhrkl,gvl gmvagviikz rlxotg.uulg.zksxmbgswg.tgmuzgfkbmuz
vpbuzgvgzubrzu gvl gwvzbrisovzgfvlluz,gakgbmvbgamug.sbglkqg.uxrlagbkg.u
quvlu gpzkfgmuzgimro ramgarfworirbtjggAmugqvagzuv rlxg.upkzugfugrlgv
Pzulimg.kkcgqmuzugbmugqkz g‘pksbuvs’,gbmuglvfugkpgvgbzuugnuztgquoogclkql,
kiiszzu ;--[Bmug.uuim-bzuu;gbmuglvfugzuauf.ouagrlgaksl gvlgk.aiulu
Pzulimgqkz j]--bmugqkfvl,gbkgqmkaugikl sibgamugragikffrbbu ,gabkwwu gmuz
amkzbgvgorbbougzksxmot,gvl gfv ugmuzgacrwgknuzgbmvbg vlxuzksagabuwjggR
oubgmuzgvoklu,glkbgbkgbzks.ougbmurzgzsoua,gpkzgRglunuzgikliuzlgftauopgrl
bmvbgakzbgkpgxknuzlfulb;gpufrlrlugwkorbtgmvagvgftabuzrksagwzkiu szu;gqu
fsabgouvnugrbgbkgbmuf;g.sbgrpgRgvfglkbgfrabvculgbmugikffuziugkpgbqulbt
oviesruagikso glkb,grlgarhgfklbma’gbrfu,gmvnugakgrfwzrlbu grlgmuzgfufkzt
bmugfuvlrlx,gsavxu,gvl gvoogbmugiklauesuliugkpgbmugaksl gkpgbmuaugqricu 
atoov.oua,gvagbmragxkk gko gqkfvlg r g.tgzuwzrfvl gvl grlbuz ribrklj

ggggggggggggggggggg“Fkbsag kiuzrgxvs ubgRklrika
ggggggggggggggggggggFvbszvgnrzxk,gubgpzvlxrbszgvzbr.sa;
ggggggggggggggggggggYvfglsligubgrliuabkagvfkzua
gggggggggggggggggggg ugbuluzk,gfu rbvbszgslxsrj”

ggggg[“Bmugfvr gzrwugpkzgfvzzrvxug uorxmbagbkgouvzlgRklrig vliua,gvl gbk
gggggrfrbvbugbmkaugovairnrksagfknufulbajggLvt,gvozuv tgpzkfgmuzgrlpvlit
gggggamugfu rbvbuagizrfrlvogvfkszaj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjgg6,g21j,gbmugbuhb
gggggmvag‘prlxrbsz’j]

Oubgbmufg.sbgxrnugbmufauonuagbmugzurlgvgorbbou,goubgbmufg.sbgulbuzgrlbk
or.uzbtgkpg raikszau,gqugvzug.sbgimro zulgbkgbmufgrlgbmragairuliujggMuvz
bmufg.sbg uaizr.ugkszgwszasrbagvl giklnuzavbrkl,gbmutgqroognuztgquoogfvcu
tksgsl uzabvl gbmvbgqug.zrlxgbmufglkbmrlxgbmutgmvnuglkbgclkqlg.upkzu,gvl 
 rxuabu gqrbmksbgkszgmuowj

ggggg[Bmragaulbuliugzupuzagbkgvgiklnuzavbrklg.ubquulgakfugtkslxgqkfulgrl
gggggmragrffu rvbuglurxm.kszmkk ,gqmrimgbmugUaavtrabgysabg.uokqgrlpkzfa
gggggsagbmvbgmugknuzmuvz ,gvl gqmrimgqvagbkkgamkicrlxgpkzgmrfgbkgzuwuvbj
gggggRbgfsabgmvnug.uulgbkouzv.otg.v j--Zufvzcg.tgbmugu rbkzgkpgvgovbuz
gggggu rbrklj]

Ragrb,gwuzmvwa,gvagWovbkgavta,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugpkzfuzotg.uulg u.vsimu 
tkslxgpuookqa?ggRgmvwwulu gklug vtgbkg.ugrlgvgwoviugqmuzugRgikso gmuvz
akfugkpgbmurzgbvocgqrbmksbgasawrirkl;gRgvfgakzztgRgivllkbgzuwuvbgrbj
.t’zov t,gavr gR,gqugmv gluu gxkgabs tgbmugwmzvauagkpgVfv ra,gvl gbmu
bvouagkpg.kiiviirkgvl gVzubrl,gbkg.ugv.ougbkg raikszaugqrbmgbmuf:gqu
ufwoktgkszgbrfugbkgfsimgwszwkaugrl uu jggBmuzugraglurbmuzgqkz ,guhvfwou,
lkzgabuwgbmutgvzuglkbgfkzugwuzpuibgrlgbmvlgkszg.kkca;g‘bragvg rairworlu
bmvbgawzrlxagqrbmgbmurzg.okk ,

gggggggggggggggggggg“UbgfulbufgrwavgNulsag u rb,”

ggggggggggggggg[“Nulsagmuzauopgfv ugbmufgqmvbgbmutgvzu,”
gggggggggggggggg--Nrzxj,gXukzxj,grrrjg267j]

qmrimgbmuaugxkk grlabzsibkza,glvbszu,gtksbm,gvl gmuvobm,gvzugiklbrlsvoot
rlawrzrlxgbmufgqrbm;gbmutgluu glkbgouvzl,gbmutg.zuu grb:

gggggggggggggg“Luigbvlbsfglrnukgxvnravguabgsoovgikosf.k,
gggggggggggggggIkfwvz,gnuogargesr g rirbszgrfwzk.rsa,
gggggggggggggggKaisovgfkz ulbrgaufwuzg uiuzwuzugzkabzk,
gggggggggggggggEsvlbsfgwzvuirwsugfsobrnkovguabgfsoruzj”

ggggg[“Lkgfroc-qmrbug knu,gkzgrpgbmuzug.ugvgbmrlxgfkzugovairnrksa,
gggggbvcuagakgfsimg uorxmbgrlgcraarlxgvagqkfvl,gqrampsogpkzgunuztgfvl
gggggamugauuaj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrjg125j]

Akgbmvbgrpgbmuglvbszvognrkouliugkpgbmurzg uarzugquzuglkbgvgorbbou
zuabzvrlu g.tgpuvzgvl gmklksz,gqmrimgquzugqrauotgiklbzrnu gpkzgbmuf,gqu
amkso g.ugvoogamvfu jggVoogbmugfkbrklagrlgbmugqkzo gzuakonugrlbkgvl gbul 
bkgbmragiklyslibrkl;g‘bragvgfvbbuzgrlpsau gbmzksxmksb:g‘bragvgiulbzugbk
qmrimgvoogbmrlxagvzug rzuibu jggQugtubgauugbmugu ribagkpgbmugko gvl gqrau
Zkfugfv ugpkzgbmugauznriugkpgoknu,gvl gbmugwzuiuwbagkpgAkizvbuagpkzgbmu
rlabzsibrklgkpgikszbudvla:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Lkliklgor.uoorgAbkrirgrlbuzgauzrika
ggggggggggggggggggggYviuzugwsonrookagvfvlb:”

gggggggggg[“BmuzugvzugqzrbrlxagkpgbmugAbkriagqmrimgqugprl gotrlxgswkl
ggggggggggaroculgisamrklaj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,gnrrrjg15j]

Dulk,gvfklxabgmragovqa,gvoakgzuxsovbu gbmugfkbrklagbkg.ugk.auznu grl
xubbrlxgvgfvr ulmuv jggQmvbgqvagbmugwmrokakwmuzgAbzvbk’ag.kkcgKpgIvzlvo
Iklyslibrkl?--[g rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnjgg59j]--Vl gqmvbg r gBmukwmzvabsa
bzuvbgkpgrlgbmkaugmugrlbrbsou ,gbmugklug‘BmugOknuz’,gvl gbmugkbmuzg‘Kp
Oknu?’ggKpgqmvbgVzrabrwwsagrlgmrag‘KpgPkzfuzg uorxmba’?ggQmvbg kgbmugak
oklxgvl gornuotg uaizrwbrklagrlgWovbkgkpgbmugoknuagkpgmragbrfugwzubul 
bk?ggvl gbmug.kkcgivoou g‘BmugOknuz’,gkpg ufubzrsagWmvouzusa?gvl 
‘Iorlrva’,gkzgbmug‘Zvnramu gOknuz’,gkpgMuzvior ua;gvl gbmvbgkp
Vlbrabmulua,g‘KpgXubbrlxgImro zul’,gkz,g‘KpgQu  rlxa’,gvl gbmugkbmuz,
‘KpgbmugFvabuzgkzgbmugOknuz’?ggVl gbmvbgkpgVzrabk:g‘KpgVfkzksagUhuziraua’
QmvbgbmkaugkpgIouvlbmua:gklu,g‘KpgOknu’,gbmugkbmuz,g‘KpgbmugVzbgkp
Oknrlx’?ggBmugvfkzksag rvokxsuagkpgAwmvuzusa?gvl gbmugpv.ougkpgYswrbuz
vl gYslk,gkpgImztarwwsa,grfws ulbg.utkl gvoogbkouzvbrkl?ggVl gmragprpbt
akgovairnrksaguwraboua?ggRgqroogoubgvoklugbmugqzrbrlxagkpgbmu
wmrokakwmuzagkpgbmugUwriszuvlgauib,gwzkbuibzuaagkpgnkoswbsksaluaajggPrpbt
 urbruagquzu,grlgbrfugwvab,gvaarxlu gbkgbmragkppriu;gvl gbmuzugmvnug.uul
lvbrklagqmuzu,gbkgvaasvxugbmugosabgkpgbmkaugqmkgivfugbkgbmurzg unkbrkl,
bmutgcuwbgfulgvl gqkfulgrlgbmurzgbufwouagpkzgbmugqkzamrwwuzagbkgorugqrbm;
vl grbgqvagvlgvibgkpgiuzufkltgbkg kgbmrag.upkzugbmutgqulbgbkgwzvtuza:

ggggg“Lrfrzsfgwzkwbuzgiklbrlulbrvfgrliklbrlulbrvgluiuaavzrvguab;
gggggrliul rsfgrxlr.saguhbrlxsrbszj”

ggggg[“Pkzakkbmgrliklbrlulitgragluiuaavztgpkzgiklbrlulit’agavcu;gv
gggggiklpovxzvbrklgraguhbrlxsramu g.tgprzuj”]

Rlgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmvbgfuf.uzgkpgkszg.k tgqvag urpru ;
rlgbmugavfugwzknrliu,gakfugpovtu gkppgbmugacrlgbkgkppuzgvl giklauizvbugv
wruiu;gkbmuzagkppuzu gvl giklauizvbu gbmurzgauu jggRlgvlkbmuz,gbmugtkslx
fulgws.oriotgisbgbmzksxmg.ubqrhbgbmugacrlgvl gbmugpouamgkpgbmvbgwvzbgrl
aunuzvogwoviua,gvl gbmzsabgwruiuagkpgqkk grlbkgbmugkwulrlxagvagoklxgvl 
bmricgvagbmutgqkso gzuiurnu,gvl gkpgbmuaugwruiuagkpgqkk gvpbuzqvz agfv u
vgprzugvagvlgkppuzrlxgbkgbmurzgxk a;gvl gquzugzuwsbu glurbmuzgnrxkzksa
lkzgimvabu,grpg.tgbmugpkziugkpgbmvbgizsuogwvrlgbmutgauufu gbkg.ugvbgvoo
 rafvtu jggUoauqmuzugbmugfkabgavizu gfvxrabzvbugqvagzunuzuliu gvl 
viclkqou xu g.tgbmvbgfuf.uzgvl grlgaunuzvogiuzufklruagbmugupprxtgkpgrb
qvagivzzru grlgwkfwgbkgbmugmklkszgkpgnvzrksag rnrlrbruajggBmugUxtwbrvl
ov rua,grlgbmurzg.viimvlvorv,guvimgivzzru gklugprluot-ivznu gkpgqkk 
v.ksbgbmurzgluica,gvagovzxugvl gmuvntgvagamugikso gakgivzztgrb;g.uar ua
qmrim,gbmugabvbsugkpgbmurzgxk gwzuaulbu gklu,gqmrimgrlgxzuvbluaa
aszwvaau gvoogbmugzuabgkpgmrag.k tj--[Muzk kbsa,grrjgg48,gavtag“luvzot
vagovzxugvagbmug.k tgrbauopj”]--Bmugfvzzru gqkful,gluvzgbmugwoviugqmuzu
Rgornu,gfvcugkpgbmurzgcuzimrupagbmugprxszugkpgklugswklgbmurzgpkzumuv a,
bkgxokzrptgbmufauonuagrlgbmugulyktfulbgbmutgmvnugkpgrb;gvl gikfrlxgbkg.u
qr kqa,gbmutgbmzkqgrbg.umrl ,gvl giknuzgrbgqrbmgbmurzgmuv iokbmajggBmu
fkabgfk uabgfvbzklagkpgZkfugbmksxmbgrbgvlgmklkszgbkgkppuzgpokquzagvl 
xvzovl agbkgbmugxk gWzrvwsa;gvl gbmutgfv ugbmugnrzxrla,gvbgbmugbrfugkp
bmurzguawksavoa,garbgswklgmragamvfupsogwvzbajggVl gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgR
mvnuglkbgrlgftgbrfugauulgakfugvrzgkpgorcug unkbrkljggQmvbgqvagbmugfuvlrlx
kpgbmvbgzr risoksagwruiugkpgbmugimvsaastugkpgkszgpkzupvbmuza,gvl gbmvbgra
abroogqkzlg.tgkszgAqraa?g[“Ik -wruiuagqkzl”--Ikbbkl]--Bkgqmvbgul g kgqu
fvcugvgamkqgkpgkszgrfwoufulbagrlgprxszugsl uzgkszg.zuuimua,gvl gkpbul,
qmrimgragqkzau,gv.knugbmurzglvbszvogardu,g.tgpvoaumkk gvl grfwkabszu?
Rgmvnugmvopgvgfrl gbkg.uorunugbmvbgbmragakzbgkpgnuabfulbgqvagrlnulbu grl
bmug.ubbuzgvl gfkzugiklairulbrksagvxua,gbmvbgbmugqkzo gfrxmbglkbg.u
 uiurnu ,gvl gbmvbgunuztgklugamkso gxrnugvgws.origviikslbgkpgmra
wzkwkzbrkla:gbmugarfwouglvbrklagquvzgbmufgtub,gvl gluvzgv.ksbgbmugzuvo
ardujggRlgbmkaug vta,gbmugbvrokzgbkkcgfuvaszugkpgrb,gvagbmugamkufvcuz
 kuaglkqgkpgvgfvl’agpkkbjggBmvbgxkk gfvl,gqmk,gqmulgRgqvagtkslx,gxuo u 
akgfvltglk.ougvl gvlirulbgabvbsuagrlgmragxzuvbgirbt,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbglkb
ikzzswbgbmugarxmbgkpgbmugov rua,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugv nriugkpgbmragkbmuz
vlirulbgqkzbmt:

gggggggggg“Povxrbrrgwzrlirwrsfguab,gls vzugrlbuzgxrnuagikzwkzv,”

ggggg[“‘Bragbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgqricu luaagbkguhwkaugbmurzgwuzaklagvfklxgbmu
gggggirbrdula”--Ullrsa,gvwjgIriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grnjg33j]

amkso gmvnugivoou gbkgfrl ,gbmvb,gvagrlgbmugftabuzruagkpgbmug.klvg uv,
voogfvaisorlugvwwuvzvliugqvaguhios u ,gmug r glkbmrlx,grpgmug r glkbgxuo 
mkzauagvl gvaaua,grlgamkzb,gvooglvbszu:

ggggggggg“Kflugv ukgxulsagrlgbuzzra,gmkfrlsfesu,gpuzvzsfesu,
ggggggggggUbgxulsagvueskzusf,gwuis ua,gwribvuesugnkosizua,
ggggggggggRlgpszrvagrxlufesugzsslbj”

gggggggggg[“Akgbmvbgvoogornrlxgbmrlxa,gfulgvl gvlrfvoa,gqro gkzgbvfu,
ggggggggggvl gpramgvl gxvs tgpkqo,gzsamgbkgbmragpovfugkpgoknuj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrrjg244j]

Bmugxk a,gavtagWovbk,gmvnugxrnulgsagklug rak.u rulbgvl gslzsotgfuf.uz
bmvb,gorcugvgpszrksagvlrfvo,gvbbufwba,g.tgbmugnrkouliugkpgrbagvwwubrbu,
bkgas.yuibgvoogbmrlxagbkgrb;gvl gakgbmutgmvnugxrnulgbkgqkfulgklugorcugv
xzuu tgvl gzvnulksagvlrfvo,gqmrim,grpgrbg.ugzupsau gpkk grlgauvakl,gxzkqa
qro ,grfwvbrulbgkpg uovt,gvl grlpsarlxgrbagzvxugrlbkgbmurzg.k rua,gabkwa
bmugwvaavxua,gvl gmrl uzagzuawrzvbrkl,givsarlxgvgbmksavl grooa,gbroo,
mvnrlxgrf.r.u gbmugpzsrbgkpgbmugikffklgbmrzab,grbgmvagwoulbrpsootg.u uqu 
bmug.kbbkfgkpgbmurzgfvbzrhjggLkqgftgouxraovbkz--[BmugWkwugqmk,gva
Fklbvrxlugmvagbko gsa,gbkkcgrbgrlbkgmragmuv gbkgxuo gbmugabvbsuaj]--
amkso gvoakgmvnugiklar uzu gbmvb,gwuzv nulbszu,grbgquzugvgimvabuzgvl 
fkzugpzsrbpsogsavxugbkgoubgbmufgclkqgbmugpvibgvagrbgrag.ubrfua,gbmvl
wuzfrbgbmufgbkgxsuaagviikz rlxgbkgbmugor.uzbtgvl gmuvbgkpgbmurzgkql
pvlit;grlabuv gkpgbmugzuvogwvzbagbmutgas.abrbsbu,gbmzksxmgmkwugvl 
 uarzu,gkbmuzagbmvbgvzugbmzuugbrfuagfkzuguhbzvnvxvlb;gvl gvgiuzbvrl
pzrul gkpgfrlugokabgmrfauopg.tgwzk sirlxgmragrlgwoviugvl gbrfugqmulgbmu
kwwkzbslrbtgqvaglkbgwzuaulbgbkgwsbgbmufgbkgbmurzgfkzugauzrksagsaujggQmvb
fraimrupg kglkbgbmkaugwribszuagkpgwzk rxrksag rfularklg kgbmvbgbmug.kta
fvcugswklgbmugabvrzivauagvl gxvoouzruagkpgbmugzktvogmksaua?gbmutgxrnugbmu
ov ruagvgizsuogiklbufwbgkpgkszglvbszvogpszlrbszujggVl gqmvbg kgqugclkq
.sbgbmvbgWovbk,gvpbuzgkbmuzgquoo-rlabrbsbu gzuws.oria,gkz uzu gbmvbgbmu
fulgvl gqkful,gko gvl gtkslx,gamkso guhwkaugbmufauonuaglvcu gbkgbmugnruq
kpgklugvlkbmuz,grlgmragxtflvabriguhuziraua,gswklgbmvbgnuztgviikslb?ggBmu
Rl rvlgqkfulgqmkgauugbmugfulgrlgbmurzglvbszvogabvbu,gmvnugvbgouvabgikkou 
bmugaulaugkpgauurlxjggVl goubgbmugqkfulgkpgbmugcrlx kfgkpgWuxsgavtgqmvb
bmutgqroo,gqmkg.uokqgbmugqvrabgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgiknuzgbmufg.sbgvgiokbm
aorbg.upkzu,gvl gakgabzvrb,gbmvbgqmvbg uiulitgvl gfk uabtgakunuzgbmut
wzubul g.tgrb,gvbgunuztgabuwgvoogragbkg.ugauul,gbmvbgrbgragvlgrlnulbrkl
bkgvooszugbmugfulgbkgbmuf,gvl gbkg rnuzbgbmufgpzkfg.kta,gbkgqmkfgbmvb
lvbrklgragxuluzvootgrliorlu ;gtub,gwuzv nulbszugbmutgokaugfkzug.tgrbgbmvl
bmutgxub,gvl gklugfvtgnulbszugbkgavt,gbmvbgvlgulbrzugvwwubrbugragfkzu
amvzwgbmvlgklugvozuv tgmvop-xosbbu g.tgbmugutuajggOrnrvgqvagqklbgbkgavt,
bmvbgbkgvgnrzbsksagqkfvlgvglvcu gfvlgqvag.sbgvgabvbsujggBmugOviu vufklrvl
qkful,gfkzugnrzxrlagqmulgqrnuagbmvlgkszg vsxmbuzagvzu,gavqgunuztg vtgbmu
tkslxgfulgkpgbmurzgirbtgabzrwwu glvcu grlgbmurzguhuziraua,gbmufauonua
orbbougmuu rlxgbkgiknuzgbmurzgbmrxmagrlgqvocrlx,g.uorunrlxgbmufauonua,
avtagWovbk,gaspprirulbotgiknuzu g.tgbmurzgnrzbsugqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgzk.uj
.sbgbmkau,gkpgqmkfgAbjgVsxsabrlgawuvca,gmvnugxrnulgls rbtgvgqkl uzpso
wkquzgkpgbufwbvbrkl,gqmkgmvnugfv ugrbgvg ks.b,gqmubmuzgqkfulgvbgbmug vt
kpgys xfulbgamvoogzraugvxvrlgrlgbmurzgkqlgauh,gvl glkbgzvbmuzgrlgksza,
pkzgpuvzgkpgbufwbrlxgsagvxvrlgrlgbmvbgmkotgabvbujggRlg.zrup,gqugvooszu
vl gpouamgbmufg.tgvoogakzbagkpgqvta:gqugrliuaavlbotgmuvbgvl gabrzgsw
bmurzgrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gbmulgqugprl gpvsobjggOubgsagiklpuaagbmugbzsbm;
bmuzugragaivziugklugkpgsagqmkg kuaglkbgfkzugvwwzumul gbmugamvfugbmvb
viizsuagbkgmrfg.tgbmugnriuagkpgmragqrpugbmvlg.tgmragkql,gvl gbmvbgraglkb
fkzugakorirbksag(vgqkl uzpsogimvzrbt)gkpgbmugiklairuliugkpgmragnrzbsksa
qrpugbmvlgkpgmragkql;gqmkgmv glkbgzvbmuzgikffrbgbmupbgvl gavizrouxu,gvl 
bmvbgmragqrpugqvagvgfsz uzuaagvl gvgmuzubri,gbmvlgbmvbgamugamkso glkbg.u
fkzugimvabugbmvlgmuzgmsa.vl :gvlgslysabguabrfvbugkpgnriuajgg.kbmgqugvl 
bmutgvzugivwv.ougkpgvgbmksavl gikzzswbrklagfkzugwzuys rirvogvl gsllvbszvo
bmvlgosab:g.sbgqugqurxmgnriua,glkbgviikz rlxgbkglvbszu,g.sbgviikz rlxgbk
kszgrlbuzuab;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmutgbvcugakgfvltgsluesvogpkzfaj

Bmugvsabuzrbtgkpgkszg uizuuagzul uzagbmugvwworivbrklgkpgqkfulgbkgbmra
nriugfkzugnrkoulbgvl gnrirksagbmvlgrbagkqlgikl rbrklgluu a,gvl gulxvxua
rbgrlgiklauesuliuagqkzaugbmvlgbmurzgivsau:gbmutgqroogzuv rotgkppuzgbkgxk
bkgbmugovqgikszbagbkgauucgpkzgxvrl,gvl gbkgbmugqvzagbkgxubgzuwsbvbrkl,
zvbmuzgbmvlgrlgbmugfr abgkpguvaugvl g uorxmba,gbkgmvnugbkgcuuwgak
 rpprisobgvgxsvz jgg kglkbgbmutgnuztgquoogauugbmvbgbmuzugraglurbmuz
fuzimvlbglkzgako ruzgqmkgqrooglkbgouvnugmrag.sarluaagbkgzslgvpbuzgbmra
awkzb,gkzgbmugwkzbuzgkzgik..ouz,gbkrou gvl gbrzu gksbgvagbmutgvzugqrbm
ov.kszgvl gmslxuz?

ggggggggggggggggggg“Lsfgbs,geshgbulsrbg rnuagVimvufulua,
ggggggggggggggggggggVsbgwrlxsragWmztxrvugFtx klrvagkwua,
ggggggggggggggggggggWuzfsbvzugnuoragizrlugOritflrf?
ggggggggggggggggggggWoulvagvsbgVzv.sfg kfka,
gggggggggggggggggggg sfgpzvxzvlbrvg ubkzesubgv gkaisov
ggggggggggggggggggggIuznriuf,gvsbgpvirorgahnrbrvgluxvb,
ggggggggggggggggggggEsvugwkaiulbugfvxragxvs uvbguzrwr,
ggggggggggggggggggggRlbuz sfgzvwuzugkiiswub?”

ggggg[“Qkso abgbmksglkbguhimvlxugvoogbmvbgbmugquvobmtgVzmvufuluagmv ,
gggggkzgbmugFtx klrvlgzrimuagkpgpuzbrougWmztxrv,gpkzgklugzrlxoubgkp
gggggOritflrv’agmvrz?ggkzgbmugbzuvaszuagkpgbmugVzv.rvla,gqmulgamugbszla
gggggmuzgmuv gbkgtksgpkzgpzvxzvlbgcraaua,gkzgqrbmguvarotgvaasvxu gvlxuz
ggggg ulruagbmuf,gqmrimgamugqkso gzvbmuzg.tgpvzgtksgbkkcg.tgpkziu,gvl 
gggggakfubrfuagmuzauopgalvbimuagklu!”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg12,g21j]

Rg kglkbgclkqgqmubmuzgbmuguhwokrbagkpgVouhvl uzgvl gIvuavzgzuvootgaszwvaa
bmugzuakosbrklgkpgvg.uvsbrpsogtkslxgqkfvl,g.zu gswgvpbuzgkszgpvamrkl,grl
bmugorxmbgvl gikffuziugkpgbmugqkzo ,gvaavrou g.tgakgfvltgiklbzvzt
uhvfwoua,gvl gtubgcuuwrlxgmuzauopgulbrzugrlgbmugfr abgkpgvgbmksavl 
iklbrlsvogvl gwkquzpsogakorirbvbrklajggBmuzugraglkg krlxgfkzug rpprisob
bmvlgbmvbglkbg krlx,glkzgfkzugvibrnu:

Rgmko grbgfkzuguvatgbkgivzztgvgasrbgkpgvzfkszgvoogbmug vtagkpgklu’agorpu
bmvlgvgfvr ulmuv ;gvl gbmugnkqgkpgnrzxrlrbtgkpgvoogkbmuzagragbmugfkab
lk.ou,gvag.urlxgbmugmvz uabgbkgcuuw:

ggggggggggggggg“ rv.korgnrzbsagrlgosf.raguab,”

avtagAbjggYuzkfujggQugmvnu,g ks.bouaa,gzuarxlu gbkgbmugov ruagbmugfkab
 rpprisobgvl gfkabgnrxkzksagkpgvoogmsfvlgul uvnksza,gvl goubgsagzuarxlgbk
bmufgbmugxokztgbkkjggBmragksxmbgbkgulikszvxugbmufgbkg.ugk.abrlvbugrlgrb;
‘bragvg.zvnugbmrlxgpkzgbmufgbkg uptgsa,gvl gbkgawszlgsl uzgpkkbgbmvbgnvrl
wzu-ufrluliugkpgnvokszgvl gnrzbsugbmvbgqugwzubul gbkgmvnugknuzgbmuf;gbmut
qroogprl grpgbmutg kg.sbgk.auznugrb,gbmvbgbmutgqrooglkbgklotg.ugfsimgfkzu
uabuufu gpkzgrb,g.sbgvoakgfsimgfkzug.uoknu jggVgxvoovlbgfvlg kuaglkbgxrnu
knuzgmragwszasrbgpkzg.urlxgzupsau ,gwzknr u grbg.ugvgzupsavogkpgimvabrbt,
vl glkbgkpgimkriu;gqugfvtgaquvz,gbmzuvbul,gvl gikfwovrlgbkgfsimgwszwkau;
qugbmuzurlg kg.sbgoru,gpkzgqugoknugbmufgvoogbmug.ubbuz:gbmuzugraglk
vooszufulbgorcugfk uabt,grpgrbg.uglkbgzs ugvl gizv..u jgg‘Bragabswr rbt
vl gfuvlluaagbkg.ugk.abrlvbugvxvrlabgmvbzu gvl g ra vrl;g.sbgvxvrlabgv
nrzbsksagvl giklabvlbgzuakosbrkl,gfrhu gqrbmgxkk qroo,g‘bragbmuguhuzirau
kpgvglk.ougvl gxuluzksagaksojggBmutgfvtgviclkqou xugkszgauznriugbkgv
iuzbvrlg uxzuu,gvl gxrnugsagirnrootgbkgsl uzabvl gbmvbgbmutg ra vrlgsa
lkb;gpkzgbmugovqgbmvbgulykrlagbmufgbkgv.kfrlvbugsag.uivsaugqugv kzugbmuf,
vl gbkgmvbugsag.uivsaugqugoknugbmuf,gragiuzbvrlotgnuztgizsuo,grpg.sbgpkz
bmug rpprisobtgkpgrbjggQmtgamkso gbmutglkbgxrnuguvzgbkgkszgkppuzagvl 
zuesuaba,gakgoklxgvagbmutgvzugcuwbgqrbmrlgbmug.ksl agkpgfk uabt?
qmuzupkzugamkso gqugpvlitgbmufgbkgmvnugkbmuzgbmksxmbagqrbmrl,gvl gbkg.u
qkzaugbmvlgbmutgauuf?ggVgesuulgkpgkszgbrfugavr gqrbmgawrzrb,g“bmvbgbk
zupsaugbmuaugikszbuaruagragvgbuabrfkltgkpgquvcluaagrlgqkfulgvl gv
auop-viisavbrklgkpgpvirorbt,gvl gbmvbgvgov tgikso glkbg.kvabgkpgmuz
imvabrbtgqmkgqvaglunuzgbufwbu j”

Bmugorfrbagkpgmklkszgvzuglkbgisbgakgamkzb;gbmutgfvtgxrnugbmufauonuagv
orbbougzurl,gvl gzuovhgvgorbbougqrbmksbg.urlxgpvsobt:gbmuzugoruagklgbmu
pzklbruzgakfugawviugpzuu,grl rppuzulb,gvl glusbuzjggMugbmvbgmvag.uvbul
vl gwszasu gmuzgrlbkgmuzgpkzbgragvgabzvlxugpuookqgrpgmug.uglkbgavbrapru 
qrbmgmragpkzbslu:gbmugwzriugkpgbmugiklesuabgragiklar uzu g.tgbmu
 rpprisobtjggQkso gtksgclkqgqmvbgrfwzuaarklgtkszgauznriugvl gfuzrbgmvnu
fv ugrlgmuzgmuvzb?ggYs xugkpgrbg.tgmuzg.umvnrkszjggAsimgvlgklugfvtgxzvlb
fkzu,gqmkg kuaglkbgxzvlbgakgfsimjggBmugk.orxvbrklgkpgvg.uluprbgqmkoot
zuovbuagbkgbmugxkk gqroogkpgbmkaugqmkgiklpuzgrb:gbmugkbmuzgikrlir ulb
irzisfabvliuagvzug sf.,g uv ,gvl givasvo;grbgikabagmuzg uvzuzgbkgxzvlb
tksgbmvbgorbbou,gbmvlgrbgqkso g kgmuzgikfwvlrklgbkgxzvlbgvoojggRpgrl
vltbmrlxgzvzrbtgxrnuguabrfvbrkl,grbgksxmbguawuirvootgrlgbmra:g kglkb
iklar uzgmkqgorbbougrbgragbmvbgragxrnul,g.sbgmkqgpuqgmvnugrbgbkgxrnu;
bmugnvosugkpgfklutgvobuzagviikz rlxgbkgbmugikrlvxugvl gabvfwgkpgbmu
woviujggQmvbunuzgbmugawrbugvl grl raizubrklgkpgakfugfvtgfvcugbmufgavtgrl
bmuguhiuaagkpgbmurzg raiklbulb,gnrzbsugvl gbzsbmgqroogrlgbrfugzuiknuzgvoo
bmugv nvlbvxujggRgmvnugclkqlgakfugqmkaugzuwsbvbrklgmvagpkzgvgxzuvbgqmrou
asppuzu gsl uzgaovl uz,gqmkgmvnugvpbuzqvz ag.uulgzuabkzu gbkgbmugqkzo ’a
slrnuzavogvwwzk.vbrklg.tgbmurzgfuzugiklabvlitgqrbmksbgivzugkzgvzbrpriu;
unuztgklugzuwulba,gvl gxrnuagmrfauopgbmugorugpkzgqmvbgmugmvag.uorunu gvl 
avr ;gvl gpzkfgxrzoagvgorbbougasawuibu gbmutgmvnug.uulgvpbuzqvz gv nvliu 
bkgbmugprzabgzvlcgvfklxabgbmugov ruagkpgmklkszjggAkfu.k tgbko gWovbkgbmvb
voogbmugqkzo gawkcugroogkpgmrfjgg“Oubgbmufgbvoc,”gavr gmu;g“Rgqroogornu
akgvagbkgfvcugbmufgimvlxugbmurzglkbuj”gg.uar uagbmugpuvzgkpgXk ,gvl gbmu
nvosugkpgakgzvzugvgxokzt,gqmrimgksxmbgbkgfvcugbmufgokkcgbkgbmufauonua,
bmugikzzswbrklgkpgbmugvxugqugornugrlgikfwuoagbmufgbkgrb;gvl grpgRgquzu
bmut,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgqkso glkbgzvbmuzg kgbmvlgrlbzsabgftgzuwsbvbrkl
rlgakg vlxuzksagmvl ajggRlgftgbrfugbmugwouvaszugkpgbuoorlxg(vgwouvaszu
orbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgbmvbgkpg krlx)gqvaglkbgwuzfrbbu g.sbgbkgbmkaugqmkgmv 
akfugpvrbmpsogvl gklotgpzrul ;g.sbglkqgbmugkz rlvztg raikszaugvl gikffkl
bv.ou-bvocgraglkbmrlxg.sbg.kvabagkpgpvnkszagzuiurnu gvl gbmugauizub
or.uzvorbtgkpgov ruajggRlguvzluab,g‘bragbkkgv.yuib,gbkkgfsimgfuvlluaagkp
awrzrb,grlgfulgbkgasppuzgasimgslxzvbupso,grl raizuub,gvl gxr  t-muv u 
wukwougakgbkgwuzauisbu,gpkzvxu,gvl gzrpougbmkaugbul uzgvl gimvzfrlx
pvnkszaj

Bmragkszgrffk uzvbugvl groouxrbrfvbuguhvawuzvbrklgvxvrlabgbmragnriu
awzrlxagpzkfgbmugfkabgnvrlgvl gbsz.soulbg rauvaugbmvbgvpporibagmsfvl
frl a,gqmrimgragyuvoksat:

gggggggggggggg“Esragnubvbgvwwkarbkgosfulg ugosfrlugasfr?
ggggggggggggggg ulbgoriubgvaar su,glrogbvfulgrl ugwuzrb;”

ggggg[“Qmkgavtagbmvbgklugorxmbgamkso glkbg.ugorxmbu gpzkfgvlkbmuzgorxmb?
gggggOubgbmufgxrnugunuzgakgfsim,gvagfsimgunuzgzufvrlagbkgokauj”--Knr ,g u
gggggVzbugVfvl r,grrrjg93jggBmugfuvaszugkpgbmugovabgorlugraglkbgxkk ;
ggggg.sbgbmugqkz agvzugbvculgpzkfgbmuguwrxzvfgrlgbmugIvbvouibvgulbrbou 
gggggWzrvwsaj]

amu,gvl gulnt,gmuzgarabuz,gauufgbkgfugbkg.ugbmugfkabgpkkoramgkpgbmugqmkou
bzkkwjggVagbkgbmugovab,gRgivlgavtgorbbougv.ksbgrb;g‘bragvgwvaarklgbmvb,
bmksxmgavr gbkg.ugakgfrxmbtgvl gwkquzpso,gmv glunuzgbkg kgqrbmgfujggVagbk
bmugkbmuz,gRgclkqgrbg.tgarxmb,gvl gbmvb’agvoojgg.uvabagpuuogrb;gbmu
amuwmuz gIzvbra,gmvnrlxgpvooulgrlgoknugqrbmgvgamu-xkvb,gbmugmu-xkvb,gksb
kpgyuvoksat,givfu,gvagmugovtgvaouuw,gbkg.sbbgbmugmuv gkpgbmugpufvou,gvl 
izsamu grbjggQugmvnugzvrau gbmragpunuzgbkgvgxzuvbuzguhiuaag.tgbmu
uhvfwouagkpgakfug.vz.vzksaglvbrkla;gbmug.uabg rairworlu gmvnug.uul
bksimu gqrbmgrb,gvl g‘bragzuvakl,g.sbglkbgbzvlawkzbu :

gggggggggggggg“Ulaugfvzrbvorglufkgiklpkaasagv sobuz
gggggggggggggggWszwszukgAbtxrvagavlxsrlugbrlhrbgvesvaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Lunuzg r gv sobuzuzgaovrlg.tgvgmsa.vl 
gggggggggggggggabvrlgqrbmgwszwoug.okk gbmugAbtxrvlgqvbuzaj”]

Osisoosa,gIvuavz,gWkfwut,gVlbklt,gIvbk,gvl gkbmuzg.zvnugfulgquzu
isicko a,gvl gcluqgrb,gqrbmksbgfvcrlxgvltg.sabougv.ksbgrb;gbmuzugqvagrl
bmkaug vtag.sbgklugikhikf.,gOuwr sa,gbmvbg ru gpkzgxzrupgbmvbgmragqrpu
mv gsau gmrfgakj

gggggggggggggg“Vm!gbsfgbugfrauzsfgfvoresugpvbr,
gggggggggggggggEsufgvbbzvibragwu r.sa,gwvbulbugwkzbv,
gggggggggggggggWuziszzulbgzvwmvlresugfsxrouaesu:”

ggggg[“Qzubimu gfvl!ggqmul,gbvculgrlgbmugpvib,gbmksgqrobg.u
ggggg zvxxu gksbgkpg kkzag.tgbmugmuuoa,gvl gasppuzgbmugwslramfulb
gggggkpgbmtgv sobuztj”--Ivbsoosa,ghnjg17j]

vl gbmugxk gkpgkszgwkub,gqmulgmugaszwzrau gklugkpgmragikfwvlrklagqrbmgmra
qrpu,gavbrapru gmrfauopg.tgwsbbrlxgbmufgbkgamvfugklot,

ggggggggggggggg“Vbesugvoresrag ug raglklgbzrabr.sagkwbvb
gggggggggggggggArigpruzrgbszwra:”

gggggggggg[“Vl gklugkpgbmugfuzztgxk agqramuagbmvbgmugamkso gmrfauop
ggggggggggorcugbkg.ugakg raxzviu j”--Knr ,gFubvfj,grnjg187j]

vl glunuzbmuouaagbkkcgvlxuzgvbgbmugoscuqvzfguf.zviuagamugxvnugmrf;
ikfwovrlrlxgbmvbgswklgbmvbgviikslbgamugqvagxzkqlgyuvoksagkpgmra
vppuibrkl:

ggggggggggggggg“Esr givsavagwubraguhgvobk?gpr sirvgiuaarb
gggggggggggggggEskgbr.r,g rnv,gfur?”

ggggg[“ kabgbmksgauucgivsauagpzkfgv.knu?ggQmt,gxk  uaa,gmvagtksz
gggggiklpr uliugrlgfugiuvau ?”--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,gnrrrjg395j]

lvt,gamugulbzuvbagvzfagpkzgvg.vabvz gkpgmuza,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Vzulvgzkxkgxulrbzrhglvbkj”

gggggggggg[“R,gvgfkbmuz,gvacgvzfkszgpkzgvgaklj”--R uf,gr.r j,g383j]

qmrimgvzugpzuuotgxzvlbu ;gvl gNsoivlgawuvcagmklkszv.otgkpgVUluva,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Vzfvgvizrgpvirul vgnrzk,”

ggggg[“Vzfagvzugbkg.ugfv ugpkzgvgnvorvlbgmuzkj”--VUlur ,gnrrrjg441j]

qrbm,grlgbzsbm,gvgfkzugbmvlgmsfvlgmsfvlrbtjggVl gRgvfgqroorlxgbkgouvnu
bmraguhiuaagkpgcrl luaagbkgbmugxk a:

ggggggggggggggg“Luig rnragmkfrluagikfwklruzgvuessfguabj”

gggggggggg[“Lkzgragrbgprbgbkgikfwvzugfulgqrbmgxk aj”
ggggggggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjg141j]

Vagbkgbmugiklpsarklgkpgimro zul,g.uar uagbmvbgbmugxzvnuabgouxraovbkza
kz vrlgvl gvppuibgrbgrlgbmurzgzuws.oria,grbgbksimuaglkbgbmugqkful,gqmuzu
bmragwvaarklgra,gRgclkqglkbgmkq,gfsimg.ubbuzgauvbu :

ggggggggggggggg“AvuwugubrvfgYslk,gfvhrfvgikuorikovf,
gggggggggggggggIklysxragrlgisowvgpovxzvnrbgeskbr rvlvj”

ggggg[“KpbulgqvagYslk,gxzuvbuabgkpgbmugmuvnul- quoouza,gulzvxu g.tgmuz
gggggmsa.vl ’ag vrotgrlpr uorbruaj”--R uf,gr.r j]

Qmulgyuvoksatgaurduagbmuaugwkkzgaksoa,gquvcgvl grlivwv.ougkpgzuarabvliu,
‘bragwrbtgbkgauugmkqgfrauzv.otgrbgbkzfulbagvl gbtzvllrauagknuzgbmuf;grb
rlarlsvbuagrbauopgrlbkgbmufgsl uzgbmugbrbougkpgpzrul amrw,g.sbgvpbuzgrb
mvagkliugwkaauaau gbmuf,gbmugavfugivsauagbmvbgauznu gpkzgvgpksl vbrklgkp
xkk -qroogauznugbmufgpkzgvgpksl vbrklgkpgfkzbvogmvbzu jgg‘Bra,gkpgvoogbmu
 rauvauagkpgbmugfrl ,gbmvbgqmrimgbmugfkabgbmrlxagauznugpkzgvorfulbgvl 
bmugpuquabgpkzgzufu t:gbmugnrzbsu,gmuvobm,gfuzrb,gzuwsbvbrklgkpgbmu
msa.vl gvzugrliul rvzruagkpgbmurzgpsztgvl groo-qroo:

gggggggggg“Lsoovugaslbgrlrfrirbrvu,glrargvfkzra,gviuz.vuj”

gggggggggg[“Lkgulfrbruagvzug.rbbuz,gavnugbmvbgkpgoknuj”
ggggggggggg(Kz:)g“Lkgmvbugragrfwoviv.ouguhiuwbgbmugmvbzu gkpgoknu”
ggggggggggg--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrjg8,g3j]

Bmragpunuzg upviuagvl gikzzswbagvoogbmutgmvnugkpg.uvsbrpsogvl gxkk 
.uar ua;gvl gbmuzugraglkgvibrklgkpgvgyuvoksagqkfvl,goubgmuzg.ugmkqgimvabu
vl gmkqgxkk gvgmksauqrpugakunuz,gbmvbg kuaglkbgzuoramgkpgvlxuzgvl 
qzvlxorlx;g‘bragvgpszrksagvxrbvbrkl,gbmvbgzu.ksl agbmufgbkgvlguhbzufrbt
esrbugiklbzvztgbkgrbagivsaujggBmragmuo gxkk gqrbmgklugKibvnrsagvbgZkfuj
MvnrlxgovrlgqrbmgWklbrvgWkabmsfrv,gmugvsxfulbu goknugqrbmgpzsrbrkl,gvl 
akorirbu gqrbmgvoogrfwkzbslrbtgbkgfvzztgmuz:gslv.ougbkgwuzasv ugmuz,gbmra
uhiuaarnugvppuibrklgwzuirwrbvbu gmrfgbkgbmuguppuibagkpgbmugfkabgizsuogvl 
fkzbvogmvbzu :gmugcroou gmuzjggRlgorcugfvlluz,gbmugkz rlvztgatfwbkfagkp
bmragkbmuzgvfkzksag rauvaugvzugrlbuabrlugmvbzu a,gwzrnvbugiklawrzvirua,
vl giv.voa:

ggggggggggggggg“Lkbsfesugpszulagesr gpvufrlvgwkaarb,”

ggggg[“Vl grbgragclkqlgqmvbgvlgvlxztgqkfvlgragivwv.ougkpg krlxj”
gggggg--VUlur ,gNjg21j]

vl gvgzvxugqmrimgakgfsimgbmugfkzugpzubagrbauop,gvagrbgragikfwuoou gbk
uhisaugrbauopg.tgvgwzubuliugkpgxkk -qrooj

Lkq,gbmug sbtgkpgimvabrbtgragkpgvgnvabguhbulb;gragrbgbmugqroogbmvbgqu
qkso gmvnugbmufgzuabzvrl?ggBmragragvgnuztgaswwougvl gvibrnugbmrlx;gv
bmrlxgnuztglrf.ou,gbkg.ugabvtu jggMkq?grpg zuvfagakfubrfuagulxvxugbmufgak
pvzgbmvbgbmutgivllkbg ultgbmuf:grbgraglkbgrlgbmuf,glkz,gwuzv nulbszu,grl
imvabrbtgrbauop,gauurlxgbmvbgragvgpufvou,gbkg upul grbauopgpzkfgosabgvl 
 uarzujggRpgqugvzugklotgbkgbzsabgbkgbmurzgqroo,gqmvbgvgivaugvzugqugrl,
bmul?gg kg.sbgrfvxrlugqmvbgizkq rlxgbmuzugqkso g.ugvfklxabgfulgrl
wszasvliugkpgbmugwzrnrouxugbkgzslgpsoogawuu ,gqrbmksbgbklxsugkzgutua,
rlbkgunuztgqkfvl’agvzfagqmkgqkso gviiuwbgbmufjggBmugAitbmrvlgqkfulgwsb
ksbgbmugutuagkpgvoogbmurzgaovnuagvl gwzrakluzagkpgqvz,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmb
mvnugbmurzgwouvaszugkpgbmuf,gvl gbmutglunuzgbmugqrauzjggK,gbmugpszrksa
v nvlbvxugkpgkwwkzbslrbt!ggAmkso gvltgklugvacgfu,gqmvbgqvagbmugprzab
bmrlxgbkg.ugiklar uzu grlgoknugfvbbuza,gRgamkso gvlaquzgbmvbgrbgqvagmkq
bkgbvcugvgprbbrlxgbrfu;gvl gakgbmugauikl ;gvl gakgbmugbmrz --‘bragvgwkrlb
bmvbgivlg kgunuztbmrlxjggRgmvnugakfubrfuagqvlbu gpkzbslu,g.sbgRgmvnugvoak
akfubrfuag.uulgqvlbrlxgbkgftauopgrlgfvbbuzagkpgvbbufwbjggXk gmuowgmrf,
qmkgtubgfvcuagorxmbgkpgbmra!ggBmuzugragxzuvbuzgbufuzrbtgzuesrzu grlgbmra
vxugkpgksza,gqmrimgkszgtkslxgfulguhisaugsl uzgbmuglvfugkpgmuvb;g.sb
amkso gqkfulguhvfrlugrbgfkzugabzribot,gbmutgqkso gprl gbmvbgrbgzvbmuz
wzkiuu agpzkfgiklbufwbjggRgqvagvoqvtagaswuzabrbrksaotgvpzvr gkpgxrnrlx
kppuliu,gvl gmvnugunuzgmv gvgxzuvbgzuawuibgpkzgmuzgRgoknu :g.uar ua,gmu
qmkgrlgbmragbzvpprigbvcuagvqvtgbmugzunuzuliu,g upviuagvbgbmugavfugbrfu
bmugosabzujggRgqkso grlgbmragvppvrzgmvnugvgfvlgvgorbbougwovtgbmugimro ,
bmugbrfkzksa,gvl gbmugauznvlbjggRpglkbgbmra,gRgmvnugrlgkbmuzg.vampsoluaa
qmuzukpgvobkxubmuzgrlgbmrlxagakfugvrzgkpgbmugpkkoramgWosbvzimgfvcua
fulbrkl;gvl gbmugikszaugkpgftgorpugmvag.uulg rnuzagqvtagmszbgvl 
.ouframu gqrbmgrb;gvgesvorbtgnuztgroogasrbrlxgftgslrnuzavogpkzf:gvl ,
rl uu ,gqmvbgvzugqug.sbgau rbrklgvl g raizuwvlit?ggRgvfgvagfsimgksbgkp
ikslbulvliugbkg.ug ulru gvagRgvfgbkg ult;gvl grbgakgfsimgbzks.ouagfugbk
.ugbzks.ouakfugbkgkbmuzagbmvbgklgkiivarklgqmulg sbtgikfwuoagfugbkgbztgbmu
xkk -qroogkpgvltgklugrlgvgbmrlxgbmvbgrag ks.bpsogvl gbmvbgqroog.u
imvzxuv.ougbkgmrf,gRg kgrbgnuztgpvrlbot,gvl gnuztgfsimgvxvrlabgftgqroo:
.sbgrpgrbg.ugpkzgftgkqlgwvzbrisovzg(qmvbunuzgMkfuzgbzsotgavta,gbmvb
fk uabtgragvgpkkoramgnrzbsugrlgvlgrl rxulbgwuzakl),gRgikffklotgikffrbgrb
bkgvgbmrz gwuzaklgbkg.osamgpkzgfu,gvl g ultgbmkaugqmkgufwoktgfugqrbmgbmu
avfug rpprisobt:gakgbmvbgrbgmvagakfubrfuag.upvooulgfugbkgmvnugmv gvgfrl 
bkg ult,gqmulgRgmv glkbgbmugwkquzgbkg kgrbj

‘Bragpkoot,gbmul,gbkgvbbufwbgbkg.zr ougrlgqkfulgvg uarzugbmvbgragak
wkquzpsogrlgbmuf,gvl gakglvbszvogbkgbmufjggVl gqmulgRgmuvzgbmufg.zvxgkp
mvnrlxgakgfvr ulotgvl gakgbufwuzvbugvgqroo,gRgovsxmgvbgbmuf:gbmutgzubrzu
bkkgpvzg.vicjggRpgrbg.ugvlgko gbkkbmouaagbzkb,gkzgvgtkslxg ztgiklasfwbrnu
bmrlx,gbmksxmgrbg.uglkbgvobkxubmuzgbkg.ug.uorunu ,gvbgouvabgbmutgavtgrb
qrbmgfkzugarfrorbs ugkpgbzsbmjgg.sbgbmutgqmkgabroogfknugvl g.zuvbmu,gbvoc
vbgbmvbgzr risoksagzvbugbkgbmurzgkqlgwzuys riu,g.tgzuvaklgbmvb
rliklar uzvbuguhisauagvzugvgcrl gkpgauop-viisavbrkl;gorcugvgxulboufvl,gv
lurxm.kszgkpgfrlu,gasawuibu gbkg.ugrlaspprirulb:

gggggggggggggg“Ovlxsr rkzgbuluzvgisrgwul ulagarisovg.ubv,
gggggggggggggggLsfesvfgaugfu rvfgasabsorbgv gbslrivf,”

gggggggggg[Ivbsoosa,gohnrrjg2,grj--Bmugaulaugragrlgbmugiklbuhbj]

qmkgbmzuugkzgpkszg vtagvpbuzgmugqvagfvzzru ,gbkgysabrptgmrfauop,gqulb
v.ksbg.ko otgaquvzrlxgbmvbgmugmv gzr  ulgbqulbtgabvxuagbmuglrxmbg.upkzu:
vlgkvbmgbmvbgqvagvpbuzqvz agfv ugsaugkpgbkgiklnribgmrfgkpgmragrxlkzvliu
rlgbmvbgvppvrz,gvl gbkg rnkziugmrfgpzkfgmragqrpujgg.uar ua,grbgarxlrprua
lkbmrlx,gpkzgbmuzugraglurbmuzgiklbrlulitglkzgnrzbsugqmuzugbmuzugvzuglk
kwwkarlxg uarzuajggRbgragbzsu,gbmutgfvtgavt,g.sbgqugqrooglkbgtruo ;
avrlbagbmufauonuagawuvcgvpbuzgbmvbgfvlluzjggRgfuvlgbmkaugqmkg.kvabgrl
xkk gxzvnrbtgkpgbmurzgiko luaagvl grlaular.rorbt,gvl gqmkguhwuibgbkg.u
.uorunu gqrbmgvgauzrksagikslbulvliu;gpkzgqmulg‘bragawkculgqrbmgvl
vppuibu gokkc,gqmulgbmurzgutuagxrnugbmugorugbkgbmurzgbklxsu,gvl gqmul
bmutgbvocgrlgbmugivlbgkpgbmurzgwzkpuaarkl,gqmrimgvoqvtagxkuagvxvrlabgbmu
mvrz,g‘bragxkk gawkzbjggRgvfgvgxzuvbgauznvlbgkpgor.uzbtgvl gwovrlluaa;
.sbgbmuzugraglkgzufu t;grpgrbg.uglkbgqmkootgarfwougkzgimro ram,g‘bra
aroot,gvl gsl.uikfrlxgov ruagrlgbmragikffuziu,gvl gwzuaulbotgzslagrlbk
rfws uliujggBmurzg raxsrauagvl gprxszuagklotgauznugbkgikaulgpkkoa;gotrlx
ragbmuzugrlgrbagauvbgkpgmklksz;g‘bragvg.t-qvt,gbmvbg.tgvg.vic- kkzgouv a
sagbkgbzsbmjggRpgqugivllkbgisz.gbmurzgrfvxrlvbrkl,gqmvbgqkso gqugmvnu
pzkfgbmufjggUppuiba?ggBmuzugvzugulksxmgkpgbmufgbmvbgunv ugvoogpkzurxl
ikffslrivbrkl,g.tgqmrimgimvabrbtgfvtg.ugikzzswbu :

ggggggggggggggg“Roos gavuwugpvirb,gesk garlugbuabugpvirb;”

gggggggggg[“Mugkpbulg kuagbmvbgqmrimgmug kuagqrbmksbgvgqrbluaaj”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjg62,g6j]

vl gbmkaugqmrimgqugpuvzgbmugouvabgvzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gfkabgbkg.ugpuvzu ;
bmurzgarlagbmvbgfvcugbmugouvabglkraugvzugbmugqkzab:

ggggggggggggggg“Kppul kzgfvuimvgarfworirkzugfrlsaj”

gggggggggg[“Rgvfgouaagkppul u gqrbmgvgfkzugwzkpuaau gabzsfwubj”
ggggggggggg--R uf,gnrjg7,6j]

Bmuzugvzugqvtag.tgqmrimgbmutgfvtgokaugbmurzgnrzxrlrbtgqrbmksb
wzkabrbsbrkl,gvl ,gqmrimgragfkzu,gqrbmksbgbmurzgclkqou xu:

ggggg“K.abuzrh,gnrzxrlragisysa vfgrlbuxzrbvbufgfvlsgnuosbguhwokzvla,garnu
gggggfvounkoulbrv,garnugrlairbrv,garnugivas,g sfgrlawrirb,gwuz r rbj”

ggggg[“.tgfvounkouliu,gkzgslacropsoluaa,gkzgviir ulb,gbmugfr qrpu,
gggggauucrlxgqrbmgbmugmvl gbkgbuabgakfugfvr ul’agnrzxrlrbt,gmvagakfubrfua
ggggg uabzktu grbj”--AbjgVsxsabrlu,g ugIrnrbjg ur,grjg18j]

Asimgvgklu,g.tgauucrlxgmuzgfvr ulmuv ,gmvagokabgrb;gvlkbmuzg.tgwovtrlx
qrbmgrbgmvag uabzktu grbjggQugivllkbgwzuirauotgirzisfaizr.ugbmugvibrkla,
qugrlbuz ribgbmuf;gbmutgfsabgxsuaagvbgkszgfuvlrlxgsl uzgxuluzvogvl 
 ks.bpsogbuzfa;gbmugnuztgr uvgqugrlnulbgpkzgbmurzgimvabrbtgragzr risoksa:
pkz,gvfklxabgbmugxzuvbuabgwvbbuzlagbmvbgRgmvnugragPvbsv,gbmugqrpugkp
Pvslsa:gqmkglunuz,gvpbuzgmuzgfvzzrvxu,gasppuzu gmuzauopgbkg.ugauulg.tgvlt
fvlgqmvbunuz;gvl gbmugqrpugkpgMruzk,gqmkglunuzgwuziurnu gmuzgmsa.vl ’a
abrlcrlxg.zuvbm,grfvxrlrlxgbmvbgrbgqvagikffklgbkgvoogfuljggBmutgfsab
.uikfugrlaular.ougvl grlnrar.ougbkgavbraptgsaj

Lkqgoubgsagiklpuaagbmvbgbmugclkbgkpgbmragys xfulbgkpg sbtgwzrlirwvoot
oruagrlgbmugqroo;gbmuzugmvnug.uulgmsa.vl agqmkgmvnugasppuzu gisicko kf,
lkbgklotgqrbmksbgzuwzkvimgkzgbvcrlxgkppuliugvbgbmurzgqrnua,g.sbgqrbm
arlxsovzgk.orxvbrklgbkgbmufgvl gxzuvbgikfful vbrklgkpgbmurzgnrzbsuj
Asimgvgqkfvlgmvag.uul,gqmkgwzrdu gmuzgmklkszgv.knugmuzgorpu,gvl gtubgmva
wzkabrbsbu grbgbkgbmugpszrksagosabgkpgvgfkzbvoguluft,gbkgavnugmuz
msa.vl ’agorpu,gvl gqmk,grlgakg krlx,g r gbmvbgpkzgmrfgamugqkso glkbgmvnu
 klugpkzgmuzauop!ggBmragraglkbgbmugwoviugqmuzurlgqugvzugbkgfsobrwotgbmuau
uhvfwoua;gbmutgvzugbkkgmrxmgvl gzrimgbkg.ugaubgkppgqrbmgakgwkkzgvgpkrogva
Rgivlgxrnugbmufgmuzu;goubgsagzuauznugbmufgpkzgvglk.ouzgwoviu;g.sbgpkz
uhvfwouagkpgkz rlvztgosabzu,g kgquglkbgunuztg vtgauugqkfulgvfklxabgsagqmk
aszzul uzgbmufauonuagpkzgbmurzgmsa.vl agakoug.uluprb,gvl g.tgbmurz
uhwzuaagkz uzgvl gfu rvbrkl?gvl ,gkpgko ,gWmvsorsagbmugVzxrvl,gqmk
kppuzu gmragbkgCrlxgWmrorwgksbgkpgvf.rbrkl;gvagXvo.vg r grbgksbgkp
irnrorbt,gqmk,gmvnrlxgulbuzbvrlu gFvuiulvagvbgaswwuz,gvl gk.auznrlxgbmvb
mragqrpugvl gmug.uxvlgbkgivabgxovliuagvbgklugvlkbmuzgvl gbkgfvcugutuagvl 
arxla,goubgmrfauopgarlcg kqlgswklgmragisamrkl,gorcugklugrlgvgwzkpksl 
aouuw,gbkgxrnugkwwkzbslrbtgbkgbmurzg uarzua:gqmrimgmugmvl akfuot
iklpuaau ,gpkzgbmuzuswklgvgauznvlbgmvnrlxgfv ug.ko gbkgovtgmvl agklgbmu
wovbugswklgbmugbv.ou,gmugpzvlcotgizru ,g“Qmvb,gtksgzkxsu?g kgtksglkbgauu
bmvbgRgklotgaouuwgpkzgFvuiulva?”gAsimgbmuzugfvtg.u,gqmkaugfvlluzagfvtg.u
ouq gulksxm,gqmkaugqroogfvtg.ugfkzugzupkzfu gbmvlgvlkbmuz,gqmkgksbqvz ot
ivzzruagmuzauopgvpbuzgvgfkzugzuxsovzgfvlluzjggVagqugauugakfugqmkgikfwovrl
kpgmvnrlxgnkqu gimvabrbtg.upkzugbmutgcluqgqmvbgbmutg r ;gvl gRgmvnugvoak
clkqlgkbmuzagzuvoot,gikfwovrlgkpgmvnrlxg.uulgxrnulgswgbkg u.vsimuzt
.upkzugbmutgquzugkpgbmugtuvzagkpg raizubrkljggBmugnriugkpgbmugwvzulbagkz
bmugrfwsoaugkpglvbszu,gqmrimgragvgzksxmgikslauookz,gfvtg.ugbmugivsauj

RlgbmugUvabgRl rua,gbmksxmgimvabrbtgragkpgarlxsovzgzuwsbvbrkl,gtubgisabkf
wuzfrbbu gvgfvzzru gqkfvlgbkgwzkabrbsbugmuzauopgbkgvltgklugqmkgwzuaulbu 
muzgqrbmgvlguouwmvlb,gvl gbmvbgqrbmgxokzt,gbkgmvnug.uulgnvosu gvbgakgmrxm
vgzvbujggWmvu kgbmugwmrokakwmuz,gvgfvlgkpg.rzbm,gvpbuzgbmugbvcrlxgkpgmra
ikslbztgUora,gfv ugrbgmragbzv ugbkgwzkabrbsbugbmug.uvsbtgkpgmragtksbm,gak
oklxgvagrbgovabu ,gbkgvltgklugbmvbgqkso ,gpkzgfklutgbmuzu.tgbkgxvrlgmra
ornrlx:gvl gAkoklgqvagbmugprzabgrlgXzuuiu,g‘bragavr ,gqmkg.tgmragovqa
xvnugor.uzbtgbkgqkful,gvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgbmurzgimvabrbt,gbkgwzknr ugpkz
bmugluiuaarbruagkpgorpu;gvgisabkfgbmvbgMuzk kbsagavtagmv g.uulgzuiurnu 
rlgfvltgxknuzlfulbag.upkzugmragbrfujggVl g.uar ua,gqmvbgpzsrbgragbmuzugkp
bmragwvrlpsogakorirbs u?ggPkzgqmvbgysabriugakunuzgbmuzugragrlgbmra
wvaarkl,gqugvzugtubgbkgiklar uzgqmubmuzgrbgbszlagbkgviikslbgkzglk:g kua
vltgklugbmrlcgbkgisz.gbmuf,gqrbmgvoogmragrl sabzt?

ggggggggg“Wklugauzvf;gikmr.u:gau gesragisabk rubgrwaka
ggggggggggIsabk ua?ggivsbvguab,gubgv.grooragrlirwrbgshkzj”

ggggg[“Wsbgklgvgokic;gamsbgbmufgswgsl uzgvgxsvz ;g.sbgqmkgamvoogxsvz 
gggggbmugxsvz ?ggamugclkqagqmvbgamugragv.ksb,gvl g.uxrlagqrbmgbmufj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gnrjg346j]

Qmvbgikffk rbtgqrooglkbgauznugbmurzgbszl,grlgakgclkqrlxgvlgvxu?

Iszrkarbtgragnrirksagbmzksxmksb;g.sbg‘bragwuzlrirksagmuzujgg‘Bragpkootgbk
uhvfrlugrlbkgvg rauvaugpkzgqmrimgbmuzugraglkgwmtarigbmvbg kuaglkbgrlpovfu
vl gfvcugrbgqkzau;gkpgqmrimgbmugamvfugxzkqagabroogxzuvbuzgvl gfkzugws.ori
.tgyuvoksat,gvl gkpgqmrimgbmugzunulxugfkzugqksl agkszgimro zulgbmvlgrb
muvoagsajggTksgqrbmuzgvl g rugrlgbmugauvzimgkpgakgk.aiszugvgwzkkpjggMkq
frauzv.otgmvnugbmutgkpgftgbrfugvzzrnu gvbgbmvbgclkqou xugqmkgmvnug.uulgak
slmvwwtgvagbkgmvnugpksl grbgksb?ggRpgbmugrlpkzfuzg kuaglkbgvbgbmugavfu
brfugvwwotgvgzufu tgvl g.zrlxgzuorup,g‘bragvlgrlyszrksagrlpkzfvbrkl,gvl 
bmvbg.ubbuzg uauznuagvgabv.gbmvlgbmugorujggQuglkgouaagovsxmgvbgmrfgqmk
bvcuagwvrlagbkgwzunulbgrb,gbmvlgvbgmrfgqmkgragvgisicko gvl gclkqagrbglkbj
Bmugimvzvibuzgkpgisicko gragrl uor.ou:gqmkgkliugmvagrbgivzzruagrbgbkgmra
xzvnu;gbmugwslramfulbgwzkiovrfagrbgfkzugbmvlgbmugpvsobjggRbgragbkgfsim
wszwkaugbkg zvxgksbgkpgk.aiszrbtgvl g ks.bgkszgwzrnvbugfrapkzbslua,
bmuliugbkguhwkaugbmufgklgbzvxrigaivppko a;gvl gfrapkzbsluagbmvbgklotgmszb
sag.tg.urlxgclkql;gpkzgqugavtgvgxkk gqrpugkzgvgmvwwtgfvzzrvxu,glkbgbmvb
bmutgvzugzuvootgak,g.sbg.uivsauglkgklugavtagbkgbmugiklbzvztjggFulgamkso 
.ugakg raizuubgvagbkgunv ugbmragbkzfulbrlxgvl gslwzkprbv.ougclkqou xu:
vl gbmugZkfvlagmv gvgisabkf,gqmulgzubszlrlxgpzkfgvltguhwu rbrkl,gbkgaul 
mkfug.upkzugbkgviesvrlbgbmurzgqrnuagqrbmgbmurzgikfrlx,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmb
lkbgaszwzraugbmuf;gvl gbkgbmragwszwkaugrbgragbmvbgvgiuzbvrlglvbrklgmva
rlbzk siu gvgisabkf,gbmvbgbmugwzruabgamvoogklgbmugqu  rlx- vtgkwulgbmu
qvtgbkgbmug.zr u,gbkgpzuugbmugmsa.vl gpzkfgbmug ks.bgvl giszrkarbtgkp
uhvfrlrlxgrlgbmugprzabgvaavsob,gqmubmuzgamugikfuagvgnrzxrlgbkgmrag.u ,gkz
mvag.uulgvbgbmugbzv ug.upkzuj

.sbgbmugqkzo gqroog.ugbvocrlxjggRgclkq,gvgmsl zu gmkluabgfulgisicko a,
mkluabotgvl glkbgsl.uauufrlxot;gvgqkzbmtgfvlgragwrbru ,glkbg rauabuufu 
pkzgrbjggKz uzgrbgakgbmvbgtkszgnrzbsugfvtgiklesuzgtkszgfrapkzbslu;gbmvb
xkk gfulgfvtgiszaugbmugkiivarkl,gvl gbmvbgmugqmkgqzklxagtksgfvtgbzuf.ou
.sbgbkgbmrlcgkl’bjggVl ,gfkzuknuz,gqmkguaivwuag.urlxgbvocu gkpgvbgbmu
avfugzvbu,gpzkfgbmugouvabgunulgbkgbmugxzuvbuab?

gggggggggggggggggggg“Bkbgesrgouxrklr.sagrfwuzrbrnrb
ggggggggggUbgfuorkzgesvfgbkgfsobragpsrb,grfwzk.u,gzu.saj”

ggggg[“Fvltgqmkgmvnugikffvl u gouxrkla,gfvltgvgfvlgfsimg.ubbuzgpvzgbmvl
gggggtks,gtksgzvaivoj”--Osizubrsa,grrrjg1039,g1041j]

Auuabgbmksgmkqgfvltgmkluabgfulgvzugzuwzkvimu gqrbmgbmragrlgbmtgwzuauliu;
.uorunugbmvbgbmksgvzbglkgfkzugawvzu guoauqmuzujgg.sb,gbmugnuztgov rua
qroog.ugovsxmrlxgbkk;gvl gqmvbgvzugbmutgakgvwbgbkgovsxmgvbgrlgbmra
nrzbsksagvxugkpgkszagvagvbgvgwuviuv.ougvl gquoo-ikfwkau gfvzzrvxu?ggUvim
vfklxabgtksgmvagfv ugakfu.k tgisicko ;gvl glvbszugzslagfsimgrlgwvzvoouo,
rlgikfwulavbrkl,gvl gbszlgpkzgbszljggBmugpzuesulitgkpgbmragviir ulbgksxmb
oklxgarliugbkgmvnugfv ugrbgfkzuguvat;g‘braglkqgwvaau grlbkgisabkfj

Frauzv.ougwvaarkl!gqmrimgmvagbmragvoak,gbmvbgrbgragrlikffslriv.ou,

gggggggggg“Pkzagubrvfglkabzragrlnr rbgesuabr.sagvszua;”

gggggggggg[“Pkzbslugvoakgzupsauaguvzgbkgkszgikfwovrlbaj”
ggggggggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrj]

pkzgbkgqmvbgpzrul g vzugtksgrlbzsabgtkszgxzrupa,gqmk,grpgmug kuaglkb
ovsxmgvbgbmuf,gqrooglkbgfvcugsaugkpgbmugkiivarklgbkgxubgvgamvzugkpgbmu
esvzzt?ggBmugamvzwa,gvagquoogvagbmugaquubagkpgfvzzrvxu,gvzugcuwbgauizub
.tgbmugqrau;gvl gvfklxabgrbagkbmuzgbzks.ouakfugikl rbrklagbmragbkgv
wzvbrlxgpuookq,gvagRgvf,gragklugkpgbmugimrup,gbmvbgisabkfgmvagzul uzu grb
rl uiulbgvl gwzuys rirvogbkgikffslrivbugbkgvltgklugvoogbmvbgvgfvlgclkqa
vl gvoogbmvbgvgfvlgpuuoajggBkgxrnugqkfulgbmugavfugikslauogvxvrlab
yuvoksatgqkso g.ugakgfsimgbrfugokab;gbmurzgnuztg.urlxgragakgfv ugswgkp
asawrirkl,gnvlrbt,gvl giszrkarbt,gbmvbgbkgiszugbmufg.tgvltgouxrbrfvbugqvt
raglkbgbkg.ugmkwu jggBmutgkpbulgzuiknuzgkpgbmragrlprzfrbtg.tgvgpkzfgkp
muvobmgfsimgfkzugbkg.ugpuvzu gbmvlgbmug rauvaugrbauop;gpkzgvagbmuzugvzu
ulimvlbfulbagbmvbgivllkbgbvcugvqvtgbmugunrog.sbg.tgbmzkqrlxgrbgswkl
vlkbmuz,gbmutgvoakgqroorlxotgbzvlapuzgbmragunuzgbkgbmurzgmsa.vl a,gqmul
bmutgamvcugrbgkppgbmufauonuajggVl gtubgRgclkqglkb,gbkgawuvcgbzsbm,
qmubmuzgvgfvlgivlgasppuzgqkzaugpzkfgbmufgbmvlgbmurzgyuvoksat;g‘bragbmu
fkabg vlxuzksagkpgvoogbmurzgikl rbrkla,gvagbmugmuv gragkpgvoogbmurz
fuf.uzajggWrbbvisagsau gbkgavt,--[Wosbvzim,gKlgIklbulbfulb,gijgRRj]--
bmvbgunuztgklugmv gmragbzks.ou,gvl gbmvbgmragqvagbmugyuvoksagmuv gkpgmra
qrpu;g.sbgpkzgqmrimgmugamkso gbmrlcgmrfauopgwuzpuibotgmvwwtjggVgfrxmbt
rliklnulruliu,gaszu,gqmrimgikso gwkraklgbmugqmkougorpugkpgakgysab,gak
qrau,gvl gakgnvorvlbgvgfvl;gqmvbgfsabgqugkbmuzgorbbougpuookqag k?ggBmu
aulvbugkpgFvzauroouagmv gzuvaklgbkgxzvlbgmrfgmragzuesuabgqmkg.uxxu gouvnu
bkgcroogmrfauopgbmvbgmugfrxmbg.ug uornuzu gpzkfgbmugiovfkszgkpgmragqrpu;
pkzg‘bragvgfraimrupgbmvbgraglunuzgzufknu g.sbg.tgzufknrlxgbmugqmkou
wruiu;gvl gbmvbgmvaglkgzufu tg.sbgporxmbgkzgwvbruliu,gbmksxmg.kbmgkpgbmuf
nuztgmvz jggMugqva,gfubmrlca,gvlgsl uzabvl rlxgpuookqgqmkgavr ,g‘bqvagv
mvwwtgfvzzrvxug.ubqrhbgvg.orl gqrpugvl gvg uvpgmsa.vl j

Oubgsagvoakgiklar uzgqmubmuzgbmugxzuvbgvl gnrkoulbgaunuzrbtgkpgk.orxvbrkl
qugulykrlgbmufg kuaglkbgwzk siugbqkguppuibagiklbzvztgbkgkszg uarxl
lvfuot,gqmubmuzgrbg kuaglkbgzul uzgbmugwszasvlbagfkzuguvxuzgbkgvbbvic,
vl gbmugqkfulgfkzuguvatgbkgtruo jggPkzgvagbkgbmugprzab,g.tgzvrarlxgbmu
nvosugkpgbmugwoviu,gqugzvraugbmugnvosugvl gbmug uarzugkpgbmugiklesuabj
Frxmbgrbglkbg.ugNulsagmuzauop,gqmkgakgisllrlxotgulmvliu gbmugwzriugkpgmuz
fuzimvl rau,g.tgfvcrlxgbmugovqagmuzg.vq a;gclkqrlxgmkqgrlarwr gvg uorxmb
rbgqkso g.ugbmvbgqvaglkbgmurxmbulu g.tgpvlitgvl gmvz luaagbkgvimrunu?
Rlgamkzb,g‘bragvoogaqrlu’agpouam,gnvzru g.tgavsiua,gvagPovfrlrsa’gmkab
avr jggIswr gragvgzkxsramgxk ,gqmkgfvcuagrbgmragawkzbgbkgiklbul gqrbm
 unkbrklgvl gysabriu:g‘bragmragxokztgbmvbgmragwkquzgfvbuagvoogwkquza,gvl 
bmvbgvoogkbmuzgzsouagxrnugwoviugbkgmra:

ggggggggggggggg“Fvbuzrvfgisowvugwzkauesrbszesugasvuj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Vl gauucagksbgvgfvbbuzg(fkbrnu)gpkzgmragizrfuaj”
gggggggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grnjgRjg34j]

Vagbkgbmugauikl gwkrlb;gamkso gquglkbg.ugouaagisicko a,grpgqugouaagpuvzu 
bkg.ugak?gviikz rlxgbkgbmugmsfkszgkpgqkfulgqmkfgrlbuz ribrklgrlirbua,gvl 
qmkgvzugfkzuguvxuz,g.urlxgpkz.r  ul:

gggggggggggggg“S.rgnuora,glkoslb;gs.rglkora,gnkoslbgsobzk;
gggggggggggggggIkliuaavgws ubgrzugnrvj”

ggggg[“Qmuzugbmksgqrob,gbmutgqkl’b;gqmuzugbmksgqrobglkb,gbmut
gggggawklbvluksaotgvxzuu;gbmutgvzugvamvfu gbkgxkgrlgbmugwuzfrbbu gwvbmj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gUslsimsa,gvibgrnj,gaijg8,gngg43]

Qmvbg.ubbuzgrlbuzwzubvbrklgivlgqugfvcugkpgFuaavorlv’ag.umvnrksz?ggAmu,
vbgprzab,gfv ugmuzgmsa.vl gvgisicko grlgwzrnvbu,gvagragbmugikffklgsau;
.sb,g.zrlxrlxgmuzg.sarluaagv.ksbgqrbmgbkkgfsimguvau,g.tgzuvaklgkpgmuz
msa.vl ’agabswr rbt,gamugakklgaikzlu gbmvbgqvt,gvl gwzuaulbotgpuoogbk
fvcrlxgkwulgoknu,gbkgkqlgmuzgoknuza,gvl gbkgpvnkszgvl gulbuzbvrlgbmufgrl
bmugarxmbgkpgvoo:gamugqkso gfvcugmrfgclkqgvl gauugmkqgamugsau gmrfjggBmra
vlrfvo,glkbgbkg.ugzksau gqrbmgvoogbmra,gvl gzul uzrlxgmuzgwouvaszuag soo
vl gpovbg.tgmragbkkgabswr gpvirorbt,g.tgqmrimgmugauufu gbkgvsbmkzraugvl 
fvcugbmufgovqpso;gqmvbg kuagamu?gg.urlxgbmugqrpugkpgvgornrlxgvl 
muvobmpsogufwuzkz,gvl gvbgZkfu,gbmugbmuvbzugkpgbmugqkzo ,grlgbmugpviugkp
bmugasl,gvl gqrbmgakouflgiuzufklt,gvl gbkgArorsa,gqmkgmv goklxg.upkzu
ulyktu gmuz,gamugws.oriotgfvzzruagmuzauopgklug vtgbmvbgmuzgmsa.vl gqva
xklugksbgkpgbmugirbtjgg kuagrbglkbgauufgvagrpgamugqvagxkrlxgbkg.uikfu
imvabug.tgmuzgmsa.vl ’agluxorxuliu?gkzgbmvbgamugaksxmbgvlkbmuzgmsa.vl 
qmkgfrxmbgamvzwulgmuzgvwwubrbug.tgmragyuvoksat,gvl gqmkg.tgqvbimrlx
amkso grlirbugmuz?gg.sbgbmugprzabg rpprisobtgamugfubgqrbmgqvagvoakgbmu
ovab:gbmrag.uvabgas  ulotgzksau gbmuaugaouuwt,gaosxxramgakzbgkpgfulgvzu
kpbulgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa:gRgmvnugpksl g.tguhwuzruliugbmvbgbmraguhbzufu
bkouzvbrkl,gqmulgrbgikfuagbkg raakonu,gwzk siuagbmugfkabgaunuzugzunulxu;
pkzgbvcrlxgprzugklgvgas  ul,gvlxuzgvl gpsztg.urlxgikf.rlu grlgklu,
 raimvzxugbmurzgsbfkabgpkziugvbgbmugprzabgklaub,

ggggggggggggggg“Rzvzsfesugkfluaguppsl rbgmv.ulva:”

gggggggggg[“Mugoubgokkaugmragqmkouggpsztj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg499j]

mugwsbgmuzgbkg uvbm,gvl gqrbmgmuzgvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgamu
mv grlbuoorxuliu,gvl gunulgklugkpgbmufgqmkgikso glkbgmuowgrb,gvl gqmkf
amugmv givsau gbkg.ugpkziu gbkgmuzg.u gqrbmgaikszxuaj

QmvbgNrzxrogavtagkpgNulsagvl gNsoivl,gOsizubrsagmv g.ubbuzguhwzuaau gkpgv
abkoulgulyktfulbg.ubqrhbgmuzgvl gFvza:

gggggggggggggg“.uoorgpuzvgfkuluzvgFvnkza
gggggggggggggggVzfrwkbulagzuxrb,grlxzufrsfgesrgavuwugbssfgau
gggggggggggggggZuyribb,gvubuzlkg unrlibsagnsoluzugvfkzra
ggggggggggggggggggggjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
gggggggggggggggWvairbgvfkzugvnr kagrlmrvlagrlgbu,g uv,gnrasa,
gggggggggggggggUesugbskgwul ubgzuaswrlrgawrzrbsagkzu
gggggggggggggggMsligbs,g rnv,gbskgzuis.vlbufgikzwkzugavlibk
gggggggggggggggIrzisfpsavgaswuz,gasvnuraguhgkzugokesuova
gggggggggggggggPsl uj”

ggggg[“Fvza,gbmugxk gkpgqvza,gqmkgiklbzkoagbmugizsuogbvacagkpgqvz,gkpbul
gggggzuiorluagklgbmtg.kakf,gvl gxzuu rotg zrlcagoknugvbg.kbmgmragutua,
gggggnvlesramu g.tgbmugubuzlvogqksl gkpgoknu:gvl gmrag.zuvbm,gvagmu
gggggzuiorlua,gmvlxagklgbmtgorwa;g.ul rlxgbmtgmuv gknuzgmrfgvagmugorua
gggggswklgbmtgavizu gwuzakl,gwkszgpkzbmgaquubgvl gwuzasvarnugqkz aj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grjg23j]

QmulgRgiklar uzgbmragzuyrirb,gprvairb,grlmrvla,gtlkoor,gpknub,gfu soova,
ov.upvibv,gwul ub,gwuziszzrb,gvl gbmvbglk.ougirzisfpsav,gfkbmuzgkpgbmu
wzubbtgrlpsaua;gRg ra vrlgbmkaugorbbougesr..ouagvl gnuz.vogvoosarklagbmvb
mvnugarliugawzslxgswjggBmkaugqkzbmtgwukwougabkk grlgluu gkpglkgas.boubt
bkg raxsraugbmurzgfuvlrlx;gbmurzgovlxsvxugrag kqlzrxmb,gvl gpsoogkp
lvbszvogvl giklbrlsu gnrxksz;gbmutgvzugvooguwrxzvf;glkbgklotgbmugbvro,
.sbgbmugmuv ,g.k t,gvl gpuubjggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgpkziu ,glkbmrlx
ovlxsramrlx,g.sbgunuztbmrlxgcuuwagbmugavfugwviu:

ggggg“Iklbuhbsagbkbuagnrzroraguab;glklgaslbgirzivgpokaisokagkiiswvbrj”

ggggg[“Bmugqmkougiklbuhbszugragfvlot;gbmutg kl’bgkiiswtgbmufauonuagqrbm
gggggorbbougpokquzagkpgzmubkzrij”--Auluiv,gUwj,g33j]

‘Braglkbgvgakpbguokesuliu,gvl gqrbmksbgkppuliugklot;g‘bragluznksagvl 
akor ,gbmvbg kuaglkbgakgfsimgwouvau,gvagrbgprooagvl gzvnramuagbmu
xzuvbuabgfrl ajggQmulgRgauugbmuaug.zvnugpkzfagkpguhwzuaarkl,gakgornuot,
akgwzkpksl ,gRg kglkbgavtgbmvbg‘bragquoogavr ,g.sbgquoogbmksxmbjgg‘Bra
bmugawzrxmborluaagkpgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgbmvbgaquooagvl guounvbuagbmugqkz a:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Wuibsaguabgesk g rauzbsfgBvirbj”

gggggggggg[“Bmugmuvzbgfvcuagbmugfvlguokesulbj”--Esrlbrorvl,ghjg7j]

Kszgwukwougivoogovlxsvxu,gys xfulb,gvl gprlugqkz a,gpsoogikliuwbrklaj
Bmragwvrlbrlxgraglkbgakgfsimgivzzru gklg.tg uhbuzrbtgkpgmvl gvag.tgmvnrlx
bmugk.yuibgfkzugnrnr otgrfwzrlbu grlgbmugaksojggXvoosagawuvcagarfwot
.uivsaugmugikliurnuagarfwot:gMkzviug kuaglkbgiklbulbgmrfauopgqrbmgv
aswuzprirvoguhwzuaarkl;gbmvbgqkso g.ubzvtgmrf;gmugauuagpvzbmuzgvl gfkzu
iouvzotgrlbkgbmrlxa;gmragfrl g.zuvcagrlbkgvl gzsffvxuagvoogbmugfvxvdrlu
kpgqkz agvl gprxszuagqmuzuqrbmgbkguhwzuaagmrfauop,gvl gmugfsabgmvnugbmuf
fkzugbmvlgkz rlvzt,g.uivsaugmragikliuwbrklgragakjggWosbvzimgavta’gbmvbgmu
auuagbmugOvbrlgbklxsug.tgbmugbmrlxa:g‘bragmuzugbmugavfu:gbmugaulau
roosfrlvbuagvl gwzk siuagbmugqkz a,glkgfkzugqkz agkpgvrz,g.sbgkpgpouam
vl g.klu;gbmutgarxlrptgfkzugbmvlgbmutgavtjggFkzuknuz,gbmkaugqmkgvzuglkb
quoogacroou grlgvgovlxsvxugwzuaulbgakfugrfvxugkpgbmra;gpkzgrlgRbvotgR
avr gqmvbunuzgRgmv gvgfrl gbkgrlgikffklg raikszau,g.sbgrlgfkzugauzrksa
bvoc,gRg szabglkbgmvnugbzsabu gftauopgqrbmgvlgr rkfgbmvbgRgikso glkbgqrl 
vl gbszlgksbgkpgrbagkz rlvztgwviu;gRgqkso gmvnugvgwkquzgkpgrlbzk sirlx
akfubmrlxgkpgftgkqlj

Bmugmvl orlxgvl gsbbuzvliugkpgprlugqrbagragbmvbgqmrimgaubagkppgovlxsvxu;
lkbgakgfsimg.tgrllknvbrlxgrb,gvag.tgwsbbrlxgrbgbkgfkzugnrxkzksagvl 
nvzrksagauznriua,gvl g.tgabzvrlrlx,g.ul rlx,gvl gv vwbrlxgrbgbkgbmufj
Bmutg kglkbgizuvbugqkz a,g.sbgbmutgulzrimgbmurzgkql,gvl gxrnugbmufgqurxmb
vl garxlrprivbrklg.tgbmugsauagbmutgwsbgbmufgbk,gvl gbuvimgbmufgslqklbu 
fkbrkla,g.sbgqrbmvogrlxulrksaotgvl g raizuubotjggVl gmkqgorbbougbmra
bvoulbgragxrnulgbkgvoogragfvlrpuabg.tgbmugfvltgPzulimgaizr..ouzagkpgbmra
vxu:gbmutgvzug.ko gvl gwzks gulksxmglkbgbkgpkookqgbmugikffklgzkv ,g.sb
qvlbgkpgrlnulbrklgvl g raizubrklgzsrlagbmuf;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgauulgrl
bmurzgqzrbrlxag.sbgvgqzubimu gvppuibvbrklgkpgvgabzvlxugluqgabtou,gqrbm
iko gvl gv.asz g raxsraua,gqmrim,grlabuv gkpguounvbrlx,g uwzuaagbmu
fvbbuz:gwzknr u gbmutgivlg.sbgbzricgbmufauonuagksbgqrbmgluqgqkz a,gbmut
ivzuglkbgqmvbgbmutgarxlrpt;gvl gbkg.zrlxgrlgvgluqgqkz g.tgbmugmuv gvl 
amkso uza,gbmutgouvnugbmugko gklu,gnuztgkpbulgfkzugarluqtgvl garxlrprivlb
bmvlgbmugkbmuzj

Bmuzugragabsppgulksxmgrlgkszgovlxsvxu,g.sbgbmuzugragvg upuibgrlgisbbrlx
ksb:gpkzgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgfrxmbglkbg.ugfv ugksbgkpgkszgbuzfagkp
mslbrlxgvl gqvz,gqmrimgragvgpzsrbpsogakrogbkg.kzzkqgpzkf;gvl gpkzfagkp
awuvcrlx,gorcugmuz.a,grfwzknugvl gxzkqgabzklxuzg.tg.urlxgbzvlawovlbu j
Rgprl grbgaspprirulbotgv.sl vlb,g.sbglkbgaspprirulbotgworv.ougvl 
nrxkzksa;grbgikffklotgesvroagsl uzgvgwkquzpsogikliuwbrkl;grpgtksgqkso 
fvrlbvrlgbmug rxlrbtgkpgtkszgabtou,gtksgqroogkpbulgwuziurnugrbgbkgpovx
vl govlxsramgsl uzgtks,gvl gbmuzugOvbrlgabuwagrlgbkgrbagzuorup,gvagXzuuc
 kuagbkgkbmuzajggKpgakfugkpgbmuaugqkz agRgmvnugysabgwricu gksbgqug kglkb
akguvarotg raiuzlgbmuguluzxt,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmugpzuesulbgsaugkpgbmufgmva
rlgakfugakzbgv.vau gbmurzg.uvsbt,gvl gzul uzu grbgikffkl;gvagrlgksz
kz rlvztgovlxsvxugbmuzugvzugfvltguhiuooulbgwmzvauagvl gfubvwmkzagbkg.u
fubgqrbm,gkpgqmrimgbmug.uvsbtgragqrbmuzu g.tgvxu,gvl gbmugikokszgra
asooru g.tgbkkgikffklgmvl orlx;g.sbgbmvbglkbmrlxgouaaulagbmugzuoramgbkgvl
sl uzabvl rlxgfvl,glkzg kuagrbg uzkxvbugpzkfgbmugxokztgkpgbmkaugvlirulb
vsbmkzagqmk,g‘bragorcuot,gprzabg.zksxmbgbmkaugqkz agrlbkgbmvbgosabzuj

Bmugairuliuagbzuvbgkpgbmrlxagbkkgzuprlu ot,gvpbuzgvlgvzbrprirvo,gnuzt
 rppuzulbgpzkfgbmugikffklgvl glvbszvo,gqvtjggFtgwvxugfvcuagoknu,gvl 
sl uzabvl agrb;g.sbgzuv gbkgmrfgOukgMu.zvusa--[OukgbmugYuq,gPrirlsa,
Ivz rlvog.uf.k,gvl gFvzrkgUesrikovgvoogqzkbugBzuvbrauagklgOknuj]--
vl gPrirlsa,gqmuzugbmutgawuvcgkpgoknu,grbagbmksxmbagvl gvibrkla,gmu
sl uzabvl agrbglkbjggRg kglkbgprl grlgVzrabkbougfkabgkpgftgkz rlvzt
fkbrkla;gbmutgvzugbmuzugiknuzu gvl g raxsrau grlgvlkbmuzgzk.ugpkzgbmugsau
kpgbmugaimkkoajggXkk gawuu gbmuf!gquzugRgkpgbmugbzv u,gRgqkso gvagfsim
lvbszvoraugvzbgvagbmutgvzbrprirvorauglvbszujggOubgsagoubg.uf.kgvl 
Uesrikovgvokluj

QmulgRgqzrbu,gRgivlgnuztgquoogawvzug.kbmgbmugikfwvltgvl gbmugzufuf.zvliu
kpg.kkca,gouabgbmutgamkso grlbuzzswbgftgwzkxzuaa;gvl gvoak,grlgbzsbm,gbmu
.uabgvsbmkzagbkkgfsimgmsf.ougvl g raikszvxugfu:gRgvfgnuztgfsimgkpgbmu
wvrlbuz’agfrl ,gqmk,gmvnrlxgzuwzuaulbu gikicagfkabgqzubimu otgroo,
imvzxu gvoogmrag.ktaglkbgbkgasppuzgvltglvbszvogikicgbkgikfugrlbkgmra
amkw;gvl gmv gzvbmuzgluu gbkgxrnugftauopgvgorbbougosabzu,gkpgbmu
rlnulbrklgkpgVlbrxulr uagbmugfsarirvl,gqmk,gqmulgmugqvagvacu gbkgarlxgkz
wovt,gbkkcgivzug.upkzumvl gbmvbgbmugvs rbkztgamkso ,gurbmuzg.upkzugkz
vpbuz,g.ugavbrvbu gqrbmgakfugkbmuzgroogfsarirvlajgg.sbgRgivlgmvz otg.u
qrbmksbgWosbvzim;gmugragakgslrnuzavogvl gakgpsoo,gbmvbgswklgvoo
kiivarkla,gvl gqmvbguhbzvnvxvlbgas.yuibgakunuzgtksgbvcugrlgmvl ,gmugqroo
abroog.ugvbgtkszguo.kq,gvl gmko gksbgbkgtksgvgor.uzvogvl glkbgbkg.u
uhmvsabu gmvl gkpgzrimuagvl guf.uooramfulbajggRbgnuhuagfugbmvbgmugragak
uhwkau gbkg.ugbmugawkrogkpgbmkaugqmkgvzugiklnuzavlbgqrbmgmrf:gRgivl
aivziugivabgvlgutugswklgmrfg.sbgRgwszokrlgurbmuzgvgouxgkzgvgqrlxj

Vl gvoakgpkzgbmrag uarxlgkpgfrlug‘bragiklnulrulbgpkzgfugpkzgfugbkgqzrbu
vbgmkfu,grlgvgqro gikslbzt,gqmuzugRgmvnuglk.k tgbkgvaarabgkzgzuorunugfu;
qmuzugRgmvz otgauugvgfvlgqmkgsl uzabvl agbmugOvbrlgkpgmragWvbuzlkabuz,
vl gkpgPzulimgvgorbbougouaajggRgfrxmbgmvnugfv ugrbg.ubbuzguoauqmuzu,g.sb
bmulgbmugqkzcgqkso gmvnug.uulgouaagftgkql;gvl grbagwzrlirwvogul gvl 
wuzpuibrklgragbkg.uguhvibotgfrlujggRgzuv rotgikzzuibgvlgviir ulbvoguzzkz,
kpgqmrimgRgvfgpsoo,gvagRgzslgivzuouaaotgkl;g.sbgpkzgftgkz rlvztgvl 
iklabvlbgrfwuzpuibrkla,grbgquzugvgcrl gkpgbzuvaklgbkgwsbgbmufgksbjggQmul
vlkbmuzgbuooagfu,gkzgbmvbgRgavtgbkgftauop,g“Bmksgvzbgbkkgbmricgkp
prxszua:gbmragragvgqkz gkpgzksxmgXvaikl:gbmvbgragvg vlxuzksagwmzvaug(Rg k
lkbgzuyuibgvltgkpgbmkaugbmvbgvzugsau grlgbmugikffklgabzuubagkpgPzvliu;
bmutgqmkgqkso gprxmbgisabkfgqrbmgxzvffvzgvzugbzrpouza):gbmragragvl
rxlkzvlbg raikszau:gbmragragvgwvzv khrivog raikszau:gbmvbgragxkrlxgbkk
pvz:gbmksgfvcuabgbmtauopgbkkgfuzztgvbgbrfua:gfulgqroogbmrlcgbmksgavtuabgv
bmrlxgrlgxkk guvzluabgqmrimgbmksgklotgawuvcuabgrlgyuabj”--“Tua,gRgclkq,
.sbgRgikzzuibgbmugpvsobagkpgrlv nuzbuliu,glkbgbmkaugkpgisabkfjgg kgRglkb
bvocgvbgbmugavfugzvbugbmzksxmksb?gg kgRglkbgzuwzuaulbgftauopgbkgbmugorpu?
‘BragulksxmgbmvbgRgmvnug klugqmvbgRg uarxlu ;gvoogbmugqkzo gclkqagfugrl
ftg.kkc,gvl gftg.kkcgrlgfuj”

LkqgRgmvnugvlgvwram,grfrbvbrnugesvorbt:gqmulgRgsau gbkgqzrbugnuzauag(vl 
Rglunuzgfv ugvltg.sbgOvbrl),gbmutgunr ulbotg raiknuzu gbmugwkubgRgmv 
ovabgzuv ,gvl gakfugkpgftgprzabguaavtagmvnugvgorbbouguhkbrigbvabu:gR
awuvcgakfubmrlxgvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgovlxsvxugvbgWvzragbmvlgRg kgvbgFklbvrxluj
QmkunuzgRgabuv pvabotgokkcgswklguvarotgouvnuagakfugrfwzuaarklgkpgmragswkl
fu;gqmvbunuzgRgiklar uzgRgsaszw,gqmubmuzgvgpkkoramgikslbulvliu,gv
 ravxzuuv.ougokkc,gkzgvgzr risoksagqvtgkpgawuvcrlx;gvl gnriuagfkabgkp
voo,g.uivsaugbmutgaurdugvl gabricgbkgfu,gvl gqrooglkbgouvnugmko gqrbmksb
amvcrlxjggRgaquvzgfkzug.tgrfrbvbrklgbmvlg.tgikfwouhrkl:gvgfsz uzksa
rfrbvbrkl,gorcugbmvbgkpgbmugvwuagakgbuzzr.oug.kbmgrlgabvbszugvl 
abzulxbm,gbmvbgVouhvl uzgfubgqrbmgrlgvgiuzbvrlgikslbztgkpgbmugRl rua,gvl 
qmrimgmugqkso gmvnugmv gfsimgv kgvltgkbmuzgqvtgbkgmvnugas. su ;g.sbgbmut
vppkz u gmrfgbmugfuvlag.tgbmvbgrliorlvbrklgkpgbmurzagbkgrfrbvbugqmvbunuz
bmutgavqg klu;gpkzg.tgbmvbgbmugmslbuzagquzugbvsxmbgbkgwsbgklgamkuagrl
bmurzgarxmb,gvl gbkgbrugbmufgpvabgqrbmgfvltgclkba,gvl gbkgfsppougswgbmurz
muv agrlgivwagvoogikfwkau gkpgzsllrlxglkkaua,gvl gbkgauufgbkgvlkrlbgbmurz
utuagqrbmgxosu;gakg r gbmkaugwkkzg.uvabagufwoktgbmurzgrfrbvbrklgbkgbmurz
kqlgzsrlgbmutgxosu gswgbmurzgkqlgutua,gmvobuzu gvl g.ksl gbmufauonuaj
Bmugkbmuzgpvisobtgkpgwovtrlxgbmugfrfri,gvl grlxulrksaotgvibrlxgbmugqkz a
vl gxuabszuagkpgvlkbmuz,gwszwkauotgbkgfvcugwukwougfuzztgvl gbkgzvrau
bmurzgv frzvbrkl,graglkgfkzugrlgfugbmvlgrlgvgabkicjggQmulgRgaquvzgftgkql
kvbm,g‘bragklot,g.tgXk !gkpgvoogkvbmagbmugfkabg rzuibjggBmutgavtgbmvb
Akizvbuagaqkzug.tgbmug kx;gDulkgmv gpkzgmragkvbmgbmugavfugrlbuzyuibrklgvb
bmragbrfugrlgsaugvfklxabgbmugRbvorvla,gIvwwvzr!ggWtbmvxkzvagaqkzug.t
qvbuzgvl gvrzjggRgvfgakgvwb,gqrbmksbgbmrlcrlxgkpgrb,gbkgzuiurnugbmuau
aswuzprirvogrfwzuaarkla,gbmvbgrpgRgmvnugFvyuabtgkzgMrxmluaagrlgftgfksbm
bmzuug vtagbkxubmuz,gbmutgikfugksbgrlabuv gkpgUhiuooulitgvl gOkz amrw
urxmbg vtagvpbuz;gvl gqmvbgRgavtgbk- vtgrlgawkzbgvl gpkkorlxgRgamvoogavt
bmugavfugbk-fkzzkqgauzrksaotjggQmuzupkzu,grlgqzrbrlx,gRgfkzugslqroorlxot
sl uzbvcug.uvbulgvzxsfulba,gouabgRgamkso gmvl ougbmufgvbgvlkbmuz’a
uhwulaujggUnuztgas.yuibgraguesvootgpuzbrougbkgfu:gvgpotgqroogauznugbmu
wszwkau,gvl g‘bragquoogrpgbmragRgmvnugrlgmvl gmvaglkbg.uulgsl uzbvculgvb
bmugzuikfful vbrklgkpgvagporxmbtgvgqroojggRgfvtg.uxrl,gqrbmgbmvbgqmrim
wouvauagfug.uab,gpkzgbmugas.yuibagvzugvoogorlcu gbkgklugvlkbmuzj

.sbgftgaksog rawouvauagfu,grlgbmvbgrbgkz rlvzrotgwzk siuagrbag uuwuabgvl 
fkabgvrztgikliurbagvl gqmrimgwouvaugfug.uab,gqmulgRgouvabguhwuibgkzgabs t
pkzgbmuf,gvl gqmrimgas  ulotgnvlram,gmvnrlxgvbgbmugrlabvlb,glkbmrlxgbk
vwwotgbmufgbk;gklgmkzau.vic,gvbgbv.ou,gvl grlg.u :g.sbgfkabgklgmkzau.vic,
qmuzugRgvfgfkabgxrnulgbkgbmrlcjggFtgawuvcrlxgragvgorbbouglriuotgyuvoksa
kpgarouliugvl gvbbulbrkl:grpgRgvfgbvocrlxgftg.uab,gqmkunuzgrlbuzzswbagfu,
abkwagfujggRlgbzvnuoorlx,gbmugluiuaarbtgkpgbmugqvtgqroogkpbulgwsbgvgabkw
bkg raikszau;g.uar uagqmrimgR,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbzvnuogqrbmksbgikfwvlt
prbgpkzgzuxsovzg raikszaua,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagRgmvnugvoogbmugouraszugRgqkso 
bkgulbuzbvrlgftauopjggRbgpvooagksbgvagrbg kuagrlgftg zuvfa;gqmroab
 zuvfrlxgRgzuikfful gbmufgbkgftgfufkztg(pkzgRgvfgvwbgbkg zuvfgbmvbgR
 zuvf),g.sb,gbmugluhbgfkzlrlx,gRgfvtgzuwzuaulbgbkgftauopgkpgqmvb
ikfwouhrklgbmutgquzu,gqmubmuzgxvt,gkzgav ,gkzgabzvlxu,g.sbgqmvbgbmut
quzu,gvagbkgbmugzuab,gbmugfkzugRgul uvnkszgbkgzubzrunugbmuf,gbmug uuwuzgR
woslxugbmufgrlgk.ornrkljggAkgkpgbmksxmbagbmvbgikfugviir ulbvootgrlbkgft
muv ,gRgmvnuglkgfkzug.sbgvgnvrlgrfvxugzufvrlrlxgrlgftgfufkzt;gklotgulksxm
bkgfvcugfugbkzfulbgftauopgrlgbmurzgesuabgbkglkgwszwkauj

Quoo,gbmul,govtrlxg.kkcagvar u,gvl gfkzugarfwotgvl gfvbuzrvootgawuvcrlx,
Rgprl ,gvpbuzgvoo,gbmvbgOknugraglkbmrlxguoaug.sbgbmugbmrzabgkpgulyktrlx
bmugk.yuibg uarzu ,gkzgNulsagvltgkbmuzgbmrlxgbmvlgbmugwouvaszugkp
 raimvzxrlxgklu’agnuaauoa,gysabgvagbmugwouvaszuglvbszugxrnuagrl
 raimvzxrlxgkbmuzgwvzba,gbmvbgurbmuzg.tgrffk uzvbrklgkzgrl raizubrkl
.uikfugnrirksajggViikz rlxgbkgAkizvbua,goknugragbmugvwwubrbugkp
xuluzvbrklg.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpg.uvsbtjggVl gqmulgRgiklar uzgbmu
zr risoksagbrbroovbrklgkpgbmragwouvaszu,gbmugv.asz ,gizvic-.zvrlu ,gqro 
fkbrklagqrbmgqmrimgrbgrlawrzuagDulkgvl gIzvbrwwsa,gbmugrl raizuubgzvxu,
bmugikslbulvliugrlpovfu gqrbmgpsztgvl gizsuobtgrlgbmugaquubuabguppuibagkp
oknu,gvl gbmulgbmvbgvsabuzugvrz,gakgxzvnu,gaunuzu,guiabvbri,grlgakgqvlbkl
vlgvibrkl;gbmvbgkszg uorxmbagvl gkszguhizufulbagvzugwzkfraisksaot
amsppou gbkxubmuz;gvl gbmvbgbmugaswzufugwouvaszug.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrb,gva
rlgwvrl,gpvrlbrlxgvl gikfwovrlrlx;gRg.uorunugrbgbkg.ugbzsu,gvagWovbk
avta,gbmvbgbmugxk agfv ugfvlgpkzgbmurzgawkzb:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Esvulvfgrabvgykivl r
gggggggggggggggggggggggggAvunrbrv!”

ggggg[“Qrbmgvgawkzbrnugizsuobt”g(Kz:)g“Qmvbgvlgslcrl luaagbmuzugragrl
gggggyuabrlx!”--Iovs rvlgrlgUsbzkwjgrjg24j]

vl gbmvbgrbgqvagrlgfkicuztgbmvbglvbszugmvagkz uzu gbmugfkabgvxrbvbrnugkp
vibrklagvl gbmugfkabgikffkl,gbkgfvcugsaguesvo,gvl gbkgwsbgpkkoagvl gqrau
ful,g.uvabagvl gsa,gklgvgounuojggUnulgbmugfkabgiklbufwovbrnugvl gwzs ulb
fvl,gqmulgRgrfvxrlugmrfgrlgbmragwkabszu,gRgmko gmrfgvlgrfws ulbgpuookqgbk
wzubul gbkg.ugwzs ulbgvl giklbufwovbrnu;gbmutgvzugbmugwuvikica’gpuubgbmvb
v.vbugmragwzr u:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Zr ulbufg riuzugnuzsf
gggggggggggggggggggggggggEsr gnubvb?”

gggggggggg[“Qmvbgwzunulbagsagpzkfgawuvcrlxgbzsbmgqrbmgvgafrou?”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjgR,g24j]

Bmutgqmkg.vlramgauzrksagrfvxrlvbrklagpzkfgbmurzgawkzba,g k,gavtagklu,
orcugmrfgqmkg vzuaglkbgv kzugbmugabvbsugkpgvgavrlb,grpglkbgiknuzu gqrbmgv
nurojggQuguvbgvl g zrlc,grl uu ,gvag.uvabag k;g.sbgbmuaugvzuglkbgvibrkla
bmvbgk.abzsibgbmugpslibrklagkpgbmugakso,grlgbmuaugqugfvrlbvrlgksz
v nvlbvxugknuzgbmuf;gbmragkbmuzgvibrklgas.yuibagvoogkbmuzgbmksxmb,
vl g.tgrbagrfwuzrksagvsbmkzrbtgfvcuagvlgvaagkpgvoogWovbk’ag rnrlrbtgvl 
wmrokakwmt;gvl gtubgbmuzugraglkgikfwovrlbgkpgrbjggRlgunuztbmrlxguoaugv
fvlgfvtgcuuwgakfug uikzsf,gvoogkbmuzgkwuzvbrklagas.frbgbkgbmugzsouagkp
 uiulit;gbmragivllkbgakgfsimgvagrlgrfvxrlvbrklgvwwuvzgkbmuzgbmvlgnrirksa
kzgzr risoksa:gprl gksb,grpgtksgivl,gbmuzurlgvltgauzrksagvl g raizuub
wzkiu szujggVouhvl uzgavr ,gbmvbgmugimrupotgcluqgmrfauopgbkg.ugfkzbvog.t
bmragvibgvl gaouuwrlx;gaouuwgasppkivbuagvl gaswwzuaauagbmugpvisobruagkp
bmugakso;gbmugpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgqkfulgorcuqraug raarwvbuagvl guhmvsaba
bmuf:g ks.bouaag‘bragvgfvzc,glkbgklotgkpgkszgkzrxrlvogikzzswbrkl,g.sb
voakgkpgkszgnvlrbtgvl g upkzfrbtj

Klgbmugklugar u,glvbszugwsamuagsagklgbkgrb,gmvnrlxgprhu gbmugfkabglk.ou,
saupso,gvl gwouvavlbgkpgvoogmuzgpslibrklagbkgbmrag uarzu:gvl ,gklgbmu
kbmuzgar u,gouvnuagsagbkgviisaugvl gvnkr grb,gvagrlakoulbgvl grl uiulb,
bkg.osamgvbgrb,gvl gbkgzuikfful gv.abrluliujggVzugquglkbg.zsbuagbkgivoo
bmvbgqkzcg.zsbramgqmrimg.uxubagsa?ggWukwougkpgakgfvltg rppuzrlxgzuorxrkla
mvnugikliszzu grlgaunuzvogwzkwzrubrua,gvagavizrpriua,govfwa,g.szlrlx
rliulau,gpvaba,gvl gkppuzrlxa;gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,grlgbmugikl uflrlxgbmra
vib:gvoogkwrlrklagbul gbmvbgqvt,g.uar uagbmugqr uawzuv gisabkfgkp
irzisfirarkl,gqmrimgfvtg.ugzuxvz u gvagvgwslramfulbjggQugmvnu,
wuzv nulbszu,gzuvaklgbkg.ovfugkszauonuagpkzg.urlxgxsrobtgkpgakgpkkoram
vgwzk sibrklgvagfvl,gvl gbkgivoogbmugvib,gvl gbmugwvzbagbmvbgvzugufwoktu 
rlgbmugvib,gamvfupsog(frlu,gbzsot,gvzuglkqgamvfupsogvl gwrbrpso)jggBmu
Uaaulrvla,gkpgqmkfgWorltgawuvca,gcuwbgswgbmurzgikslbztgpkzgaunuzvogvxua
qrbmksbgurbmuzglszaugkzg.v.t-ioksba,g.tgbmugvzzrnvogkpgabzvlxuzagqmk,
pkookqrlxgbmragwzubbtgmsfksz,givfugiklbrlsvootgbkgbmuf:gvgqmkouglvbrkl
.urlxgzuakosbu,gzvbmuzgbkgmvdvz gvgbkbvoguhbuzfrlvbrkl,gbmvlgbkgulxvxu
bmufauonuagrlgpufvouguf.zviua,gvl gzvbmuzgbkgokaugbmugasiiuaarklgkpgful,
bmvlgbkg.uxubgklujgg‘Bragavr ,gbmvbgDulkglunuzgmv gbkg kgqrbmgvgqkfvlg.sb
kliugrlgmragorpu,gvl gbmulgksbgkpgirnrorbt,gbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbgauufgbkk
k.abrlvbuotgbkg ra vrlgbmugauhj

ggggg[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnrrjg13j--Qmvbgragbmuzugavr ,gmkqunuz,gragbmvb
gggggDulkgauo kfgmv gikffuziugqrbmg.kta,gouabgmugamkso g.ug uufu gvgnuzt
gggggfrakxtlrabj]

Unuztgklugvnkr agauurlxgvgfvlg.kzl,gunuztgklugzslagbkgauugmrfg ru;gbk
 uabzktgmrfgvgawvirksagpruo gragaksxmbgksbgrlgbmugpviugkpgbmugasl,g.sb,
bkgfvcugmrf,gqugizuuwgrlbkgvag vzcgvl gwzrnvbugvgikzluzgvagqugivl:g‘bragv
fvl’ag sbtgbkgqrbm zvqgmrfauopg.vampsootgpzkfgbmugorxmbgbkgizuvbu;g.sb
‘bragxokztgvl gbmugpkslbvrlgkpgfvltgnrzbsuagbkgclkqgmkqgbkg uabzktgqmvb
qugmvnugfv u:gbmugklugragrlyszt,gbmugkbmuzgpvnksz:gpkzgVzrabkbougavta
bmvbgbkg kgvltgklugvgcrl luaa,grlgvgiuzbvrlgwmzvaugkpgmragikslbzt,gragbk
croogmrfjggBmugVbmulrvla,gbkgikswougbmug raxzviugkpgbmuaugbqkgvibrkla,
mvnrlxgbkgwszxugbmugRaougkpg uoka,gvl gbkgysabrptgbmufauonuagbkgVwkook,
rlbuz ribu gvbgkliugvoog.rzbmagvl g.szrvoagrlgbmugwzuirlibagbmuzukp:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lkabzrglkafubgwvulrbubj”

gggggggggg[“Qugvzugvamvfu gkpgkszauonuaj”--Buzuliu,gWmktfrk,grjg3,g20j]

Bmuzugvzugakfuglvbrklagbmvbgqrooglkbg.ugauulgbkguvbjggRgclkqgvgov t,gvl 
kpgbmug.uabgesvorbt,gqmkgmvagbmugavfugkwrlrkl,gbmvbgimuqrlxg raprxszua
bmugpviu,gvl gbvcuagvqvtgfsimgpzkfgbmugov rua’gxzviugvl g.uvsbt;gvl 
bmuzupkzugslqroorlxotgvwwuvzagvbgvgws.origbv.ougqrbmgvlgvwwubrbu;gvl gR
clkqgvgfvlgvoak,gqmkgivllkbgul szugbkgauugvlkbmuzguvb,glkzgmrfauopgbkg.u
auulguvbrlx,gvl gqmkgragfkzugamtgkpgikfwvltgqmulgwsbbrlxgrlgbmvlgqmul
wsbbrlxgksbjggRlgbmugBszcramgufwrzu,gbmuzugvzugvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgfulgqmk,
bkguhiuogkbmuza,glunuzgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugauulgqmulgbmutgfvcugbmurz
zuwvab:gqmkglunuzgmvnugvltgfkzugbmvlgklugvgquuc;gqmkgisbgvl gfvlxougbmurz
pviuagvl gorf.a;gqmkglunuzgawuvcgbkgvltgklu:gpvlvbrigwukwougqmkgbmrlcgbk
mklkszgbmurzglvbszug.tg ralvbszrlxgbmufauonua;gqmkgnvosugbmufauonuagswkl
bmurzgiklbufwbgkpgbmufauonua,gvl gwszwkzbgbkgxzkqg.ubbuzg.tg.urlxgqkzauj
Qmvbgfklabzksagvlrfvogragbmra,gbmvbgragvgmkzzkzgbkgmrfauop,gbkgqmkfgmra
 uorxmbagvzugxzrunksa,gvl gqmkgqu agmrfauopgbkgfrapkzbslu?ggBmuzugvzu
wukwougqmkgikliuvogbmurzgorpu:

ggggggggggggggg“Uhrorkesug kfkagubg soirvgorfrlvgfsbvlb,”

ggggg[“Vl gimvlxugpkzguhrougbmurzgmkfuagvl gwouvavlbgv.k uaj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrjg511j]

vl gqrbm zvqgbmufgpzkfgbmugarxmbgkpgkbmuzgful;gqmkgvnkr gmuvobmgvl 
imuuzpsoluaa,gvag vlxuzksagvl gwzuys rirvogesvorbruajggLkbgklotgfvlt
auiba,g.sbgfvltgwukwoua,giszaugbmurzg.rzbm,gvl g.ouaagbmurzg uvbm;gvl 
bmuzugragvgwoviugqmuzugbmugaslgragv.kfrlvbu gvl g vzcluaagv kzu jggQugvzu
klotgrlxulrksagrlgsarlxgkszauonuagroo:g‘bragbmugzuvogesvzztgksz
rlbuoouibagpotgvb;gvl grlbuoouib,gqmulgfravwworu ,gragvg vlxuzksagbkko!

ggggggggggggggg“Kgfrauzr!geskzsfgxvs rvgizrfulgmv.ulb!”

gggggggggg[“Kgqzubimu gful,gqmkaugwouvaszuagvzugvgizrfu!”
ggggggggggg--Waus kgXvoosa,grjg180j]

Vova,gwkkzgfvl!ggbmksgmvabgulksxmgrliklnulruliuagbmvbgvzugrlunrbv.ou,
qrbmksbgrlizuvarlxgbmufg.tgbmzkugkqlgrlnulbrkl;gvl gvzbgfrauzv.ougulksxm
.tglvbszu,gqrbmksbg.urlxgakg.tgvzb;gbmksgmvabgzuvogvl guaaulbrvo
 upkzfrbruagulksxm,gqrbmksbgpkzxrlxgbmkaugbmvbgvzugrfvxrlvztjgg kabgbmks
bmrlcgbmksgvzbgbkkgfsimgvbguvaugslouaagmvopgbmtguvaugragsluvat?gg kab
bmksgprl gbmvbgbmksgmvabglkbgwuzpkzfu gvoogbmugluiuaavztgkppriuagbmvb
lvbszugmvagulykrlu gbmuu,gvl gbmvbgamugragr ougrlgbmuu,grpgbmksg kabglkb
k.orxugbmtauopgbkgkbmuzgvl gluqgkppriua?ggBmksg kabglkbgabricgbkgrlpzrlxu
muzgslrnuzavogvl gsl ks.bu govqa;g.sbgabricuabgbkgbmtgkqlgawuirvogvl 
pvlbvabrigzsoua,gvl g.tgmkqgfsimgfkzugwvzbrisovz,gsliuzbvrl,gvl 
iklbzv ribkztgbmutgvzu,g.tgakgfsimgbmksgufwoktuabgbmtgqmkougul uvnkszgrl
bmuf:gbmugovqagkpgbmtgwvzramgkiiswtgvl g.rl gbmuu:gbmkaugkpgXk gvl gbmu
qkzo gikliuzlgbmuuglkbjggZslg.sbgvgorbbougknuzgbmuguhvfwouagkpgbmragcrl ;
bmtgorpugragpsoogkpgbmufj

Qmroabgbmugnuzauagkpgbmuaugbqkgwkuba,gbzuvbgakgzuauznu otgvl g raizuubot
kpgqvlbklluaagvagbmutg k,gfubmrlcagbmutg raiknuzgrbgfsimgfkzugkwulotj
Ov ruagiknuzgbmurzgluicagqrbmglubqkzc,gwzruabagiknuzgaunuzvogavizu 
bmrlxa,gvl gwvrlbuzagamv kqgbmurzgwribszuagbkgxrnugbmufgxzuvbuzgosabzu:
vl g‘bragavr gbmvbgbmugaslgvl gqrl gabzrcugfkzugnrkoulbotg.tgzupouibrkl
bmvlgrlgvg rzuibgorlujggBmugUxtwbrvlgqrauotgvlaquzu gmrfgqmkgvacu gmrf
qmvbgmugmv gsl uzgmragiokvc,g“Rbgragmr gsl uzgftgiokvc,”gavr gmu,g“bmvb
bmksgfvtuabglkbgclkqgqmvbgrbgra:”g.sbgbmuzugvzugiuzbvrlgkbmuzgbmrlxagbmvb
wukwougmr ugklotgbkgamkqgbmufjggMuvzgbmvbgklu,gqmkgawuvcagwovrluz,

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgls sfgwzuaargikzwsagv gsaesugfusf:”

gggggggggg[“Vl gwzuaau gmuzglvcu g.k tgbkgfrlu”g(Kz:)g“Ftg.k t
ggggggggggRgvwworu gunulgbkgmuzglvcu gar u”--Knr ,gVfkzj,grjg5,g24j]

fubmrlcagbmvbgmugufvaisovbuagfujggOubgFvzbrvogbszlgswgNulsagvagmrxmgvagmu
fvt,gmugivllkbgamuqgmuzgakglvcu :gmugqmkgavtagvoogbmvbgragbkg.ugavr 
xosbagvl g raxsabagsajggMugqmkgragvpzvr gbkguhwzuaagmrfauop,g zvqagsagkl
bkgxsuaagvbgfkzugbmvlgragfuvlb;gbmuzugragbzuvimuztgrlgbmragakzbgkp
fk uabt,gvl gawuirvootgqmulgbmutgmvopgkwul,gvagbmuaug k,gakgpvrzgvgwvbm
bkgrfvxrlvbrkljgg.kbmgbmugvibrklgvl g uaizrwbrklgamkso gzuoramgkpgbmupbj

Bmugfkzugzuawuibpso,gfkzugbrfkzksa,gfkzugikt,gvl gauizubgoknugkpgbmu
Awvlrvz agvl gRbvorvlagwouvauagfujggRgclkqglkbgqmkgkpgko gqramu gmra
bmzkvbgvagoklxgvagbmvbgkpgvgizvlu,gbmvbgmugfrxmbgbmugoklxuzgbvabugqmvbgmu
aqvookqu ;grbgmv g.uulg.ubbuzgqramu gvagbkgbmragesricgvl gwzuirwrbksa
wouvaszu,guawuirvootgrlgasimglvbszuagvagfrlugbmvbgmvnugbmugpvsobgkpg.urlx
bkkgwzkfwbjggBkgabvtgrbagporxmbgvl g uovtgrbgqrbmgwzuvf.oua:gvoogbmrlxa
--vgxovliu,gvg.kq,gvgqkz ,gvgarxl,gabvl gpkzgpvnkszgvl gzuikfwulaug.ubqrhb
bmufjggQuzugrbglkbgvlguhiuooulbgwruiugkpgbmzrpbgrlgmrfgqmkgikso g rlugkl
bmugabuvfgkpgbmugzkvab?gg‘Bragvgwvaarklgbmvbgfrhuagqrbmgnuztgorbbougakor 
uaauliu,gpvzgfkzugnvlrbtgvl gpunuzramgzvnrlx;gvl gqugamkso gauznugvl gwvt
rbgviikz rlxotjggOubgsagbuvimgbmugov ruagbkgaubgvg.ubbuzgnvosugvl guabuuf
swklgbmufauonua,gbkgvfsaugvl gpkkogsa:gqugxrnugbmugovabgimvzxugvbgbmu
przabgklaub;gbmugPzulimgrfwubskarbtgqroogabroogamkqgrbauop;g.tgawrllrlx
ksbgbmurzgpvnksza,gvl guhwkarlxgbmufgrlgafvoogwvziuoa,gunulgfrauzv.ougko 
vxugrbauopgqroogprl gakfugorbbougamvzugkpgzuqvz ,gviikz rlxgbkgrbagqkzbm
vl gfuzrbjggMugqmkgmvaglkgpzsrbrklg.sbgrlgpzsrbrkl,gqmkgqrlaglkbmrlx
slouaagmugaquuwagbmugabvcua,gqmkgbvcuaglkgwouvaszugrlgbmugimvaug.sbgrl
bmugesvzzt,gksxmbglkbgbkgrlbzk siugmrfauopgrlgkszgaimkko:gbmugfkzugabuwa
vl g uxzuuagbmuzugvzu,gakgfsimgmrxmuzgvl gfkzugmklkszv.ougragbmu
swwuzfkabgauvb:gqugamkso gbvcugvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgikl sibu gbkgrb,gvagrl
fvxlrpriulbgwvoviua,g.tgnvzrksagwkzbrikuagvl gwvaavxua,goklxgvl gwouvavlb
xvoouzrua,gvl gfvltgqrl rlxajggBmrag rawkarbrklgkpgbmrlxagqkso gbszlgbk
kszgv nvlbvxu;gqugamkso gbmuzugoklxuzgabvtgvl goklxuzgoknu;gqrbmksbgmkwu
vl gqrbmksbg uarzugqugwzkiuu glkbgqkzbmgvgwrljggKszgiklesuabgvl gulbrzu
wkaauaarklgragqmvbgbmutgksxmbgrlprlrbuotgbkg zuv :gqmulgbmutgqmkoot
aszzul uzgbmufauonuagswgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgkszgpr uorbtgvl giklabvlitgbmut
zslgvgfrxmbtgmvdvz ;gbmutgvzugnrzbsuagnuztgzvzugvl gmvz gbkg.ugpksl ;gbmu
ov ruagvzuglkgakkluzgksza,gbmvlgqugvzuglkgfkzugbmurza:

gggggggggggggg“Wkabesvfgiswr vugfulbragavbrvbvgor.r kguab,
gggggggggggggggNuz.vglrmrogfubsuzu,glrmrogwuzyszrvgiszvlb;”

gggggggggg[“Qmulgkszg uarzuagvzugkliugavbrapru ,gqugivzugorbbou
ggggggggggpkzgkvbmagvl gwzkfrauaj”--Ivbsoosa,gohrnjgg147j]

Vl gBmzvaklr ua,gvgtkslxgfvlgkpgXzuuiu,gqvagakgrlgoknugqrbmgmragwvaarkl
bmvb,gmvnrlx,gxvrlu gvgfrabzuaa’agiklaulb,gmugzupsau gbkgulyktgmuz,gbmvb
mugfrxmbglkbg.tgpzsrbrklgesulimgvl gabswuptgbmugslesrubgvz kszgkpgqmrim
mugqvagakgwzks ,gvl gqrbmgqmrimgmugakgpu gmrfauopjgg uvzluaagragvgxkk 
avsiugbkgfuvb:g kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgfsimgbmugfvlluzgkpgavosbvbrkl,
wvzbrisovzgbkgkszglvbrkl,gmva,g.tgrbagpvirorbrua,gfv ugcraaua,gqmrim
Akizvbuagavtagvzugakgwkquzpsogvl g vlxuzksagpkzgbmugabuvorlxgkpgmuvzba,
kpglkguabuufjggRbgragvg rawouvarlxgisabkfgvl grlyszrksagpkzgbmugov rua,
bmvbgbmutgfsabg.ugk.orxu gbkgoul gbmurzgorwagbkgunuztgpuookqgqmkgmva
bmzuugpkkbfulgvbgmragmuuoa,gmkqunuzgroo-pvnkszu gmugfvtg.ugrlgmrfauop:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Isysagornr vglvzr.sagivlrlra
gggggggggggggggggggg uwul ubgxovirua,gzrxubesug.vz.vgjggjggj
ggggggggggggggggggggIulbsfgkiiszzuzugfvokgisororlxra:”
gggggggggggggggggggggFvzbrvo,gnrrjg94j

vl gqugkszauonuag.vzuotgxvrlg.tgrb;gpkzgvagbmugqkzo grag rnr u ,gpkz
bmzuug.uvsbrpsogqkfulgqugfsabgcraagprpbtgsxotgklua;gvl gbkgvgbul uz
abkfvim,gorcugbmkaugkpgftgvxu,gvlgroogcraagknuzwvtagvgxkk gkluj

RlgRbvotgbmutgwvaarklvbuotgikszbgunulgbmurzgikffklgqkfulgqmkgauoo
bmufauonuagpkzgfklut,gvl gysabrptgbmug krlxgakg.tgavtrlx,g“bmvbgbmuzugvzu
 uxzuuagkpgpzsrbrkl,gvl gbmvbg.tgasimgauznriugbmutgqkso gwzkiszugpkz
bmufauonuagbmvbgqmrimgragfkabgulbrzu;gbmugqkfulgauooglkbmrlxg.sbgbmurz
.k rua;gbmugqroogragbkkgpzuugvl gbkkgfsimgkpgrbagkqlgbkg.uguhwkau gbk
avouj”ggAkgbmvbgbmuaugavt,g‘bragbmugqroogbmutgsl uzbvcugvl gbmutgmvnu
zuvakljgg‘Bragrl uu gbmugqroogbmvbgqugvzugbkgauznugvl gxvrlg.tgqkkrlxj
Rgv.mkzgbkgrfvxrlugfrlu,gvg.k tgqrbmksbgvppuibrkl:gvl gbmragfv luaagra,
fubmrlca,giksarl-xuzfvlgbkgbmvbgkpgbmug.ktgqmkgqkso gluu agwkoosbugbmu
.uvsbrpsogabvbsugkpgNulsagfv ug.tgWzvhrbuoua;gkzgbmvbgkpgbmugpszrksa
Uxtwbrvl,gqmkgnrkovbu gbmug uv givzivaugkpgvgqkfvlgmugqvaguf.vofrlx:
qmrimgqvagbmugkiivarklgkpgbmugovqgbmulgfv ugrlgUxtwb,gbmvbgbmugikzwauagkp
.uvsbrpsogtkslxgqkful,gkpgbmkaugkpgxkk gesvorbt,gamkso g.ugcuwbgbmzuu
 vtag.upkzugbmutgamkso g.ug uornuzu gbkgbmkaugqmkaugkppriugrbgqvagbkgbvcu
ivzugpkzgbmugrlbuzfulbjggWuzrvl uzg r gfkzugqkl uzpsoot,gqmkguhbul u gmra
iklysxvogvppuibrklg(fkzugzuxsovzgvl gouxrbrfvbu)gbkgbmugulyktfulbgkpgmra
qrpugFuoraavgvpbuzgamugqvag uv jgg kuagrbglkbgauufgvgoslvbrigmsfkszgrl
bmugFkkl,gauurlxgamugikso glkgkbmuzqraugulyktgmuzg vzorlxgUl tfrkl,gbk
ovt-mrfgpkzgaunuzvogfklbmagvaouuw,gvl gbkgwouvaugmuzauopgqrbmgbmu
pzsrbrklgkpgvg.ktgqmkgabrzzu glkbg.sbgrlgmragaouuw?ggRgorcuqraugavtgbmvb
qugoknugvg.k tgqrbmksbgvgaksogkzgaulbrfulbgqmulgqugoknugvg.k tgqrbmksb
rbagiklaulbgvl g uarzujggVoogulyktfulbagvzuglkbgvorcu:gbmuzugvzugakfu
bmvbgvzugmuibrigvl govlxsramrlx:gvgbmksavl gkbmuzgivsauag.uar ua
xkk -qroogfvtgwzkiszugsagbmragpvnkszgpzkfgbmugov rua;gbmragraglkbgv
aspprirulbgbuabrfkltgkpgvppuibrkl:gbzuvimuztgfvtgoszcgbmuzu,gvagquoogva
uoauqmuzu:gbmutgakfubrfuagxkgbk’bg.tgmvonua:

gggggggggggggg“Bvlesvfgbmszvgfuzsfesugwvzulb
gggggggggggggggV.aulbufgfvzfkzuvfnugwsbua:”

ggggg[“Vagrpgbmutgvzugwzuwvzrlxgpzvlcrliulaugvl gqrlugjggjggjgtksgfrxmb
gggggbmrlcgmuzgv.aulbgkzgfvz.ouj”--Fvzbrvo,ghrjg103,g12,gvl g59,g8j]

Rgclkqgakfugqmkgmv gzvbmuzgoul gbmvbgbmvlgbmurzgikvim,gvl gqmkgklot
rfwvzbgbmufauonuagbmvbgqvtjggTksgvzugbkguhvfrlugqmubmuzgtkszgikfwvlt
wouvauagbmufgswklgvltgkbmuzgviikslb,gkz,gvagakfugabzklx-imrlu gxzkkf,
pkzgbmvbgklot;grlgqmvbg uxzuugkpgpvnkszgvl guabuufgtksgvzugqrbmgbmuf:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Br.rgarg vbszgslr,
ggggggggggggggggggggEsufgovwr ugroovg rufgivl r rkzuglkbvbj”

ggggg[“Qmuzupkzugbmvbgragulksxm,grpgbmvbg vtgvoklugragxrnulgsagqmrimgamu
gggggfvzcagqrbmgvgqmrbuzgabkluj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjg147j]

Qmvbgrpgbmutguvbgtkszg.zuv gqrbmgbmugavsiugkpgvgfkzugwouvarlx
rfvxrlvbrklj

ggggggggggggggg“Bugbulub,gv.aulbuagvorkagasawrzvbgvfkzuaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Amugmvagtksgrlgmuzgvzfa;gmuzgbmksxmbagvzugqrbm
gggggggggggggggkbmuzgv.aulbgoknuzaj”--Br.soosa,grjg6,g35j]

Qmvb?gmvnugquglkbgauulgklugrlgbmuaug vtagkpgkszagqmkgfv ugsaugkpgbmragvib
pkzgbmugwszwkaugkpgvgfkabgmkzzr gzunulxu,g.tgbmvbgfuvlagbkgcroogvl 
wkrakl,gvagmug r ,gvgqkzbmtgov t?

AsimgvagclkqgRbvotgqrooglkbgbmrlcgrbgabzvlxugrp,gpkzgbmragas.yuib,gRgauuc
lkbguoauqmuzugpkzguhvfwoua;gpkzgbmvbglvbrklgfvtg.ugivoou gbmugzuxulbgkp
bmugqkzo grlgbmrajggBmutgmvnugfkzugxuluzvootgmvl akfugvl gpuquzgsxot
qkfulgbmvlgqu;g.sbgpkzgzvzugvl guhiuooulbg.uvsbruagqugmvnugvagfvltgva
bmutjggRgbmrlcgbmugavfugkpgbmurzgrlbuoouiba:gkpgbmkaugkpgbmugikffklgakzb,
bmutgmvnugunr ulbotgpvzgfkzug.zsbramluaagragrffuvaszv.otgzvzuzgbmuzu;
.sbgrlgrl rnr svogimvzvibuzagkpgbmugmrxmuabgpkzf,gqugvzuglkbmrlxgrl u.bu 
bkgbmufjggRpgRgamkso givzztgklgbmugikfwvzrakl,gRgfrxmbgavt,gvagbksimrlx
nvoksz,gbmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,grbgra,gbkgqmvbgrbgragqrbmgbmuf,gikffklgvl 
lvbszvogqrbmgsa;g.sbgakfubrfuagqugauugbmufgwkaauaau gkpgrbgbkgasimgv
 uxzuugvagaszwvaauagbmugxzuvbuabguhvfwouagqugivlgwzk siu:gBmugfvzzrvxua
kpgbmvbgikslbztgvzug upuibrnugrlgbmra;gbmurzgisabkfgikffklotgrfwkauagak
zs ugvl gakgaovnramgvgovqgswklgbmugqkful,gbmvbgbmugfkabg rabvlb
viesvrlbvliugqrbmgvgabzvlxuzgragvagivwrbvogvlgkppuliugvagbmugfkab
rlbrfvbu;gakgbmvbgvoogvwwzkvimuag.urlxgzul uzu gluiuaavzrotgas.abvlbrvo,
vl gauurlxgbmvbgvoogikfuagbkgklugviikslb,gbmutgmvnuglkgmvz gimkriugbk
fvcu;gvl gqmulgbmutgmvnug.zkculg kqlgbmugpuliu,gqugfvtgavpuotgwzuasfu
bmutgxubgklgprzu:

gggggggggg“Oshszrvgrwaragnrlisora,garisbgpuzvg.uabrv,
ggggggggggrzzrbvbv,g url ugufraavj”

ggggg[“Osab,gorcugvgqro g.uvab,g.urlxgfkzuguhirbu g.tg.urlxg.ksl ,
ggggg.zuvcagpzkfgmragimvrlagqrbmgxzuvbuzgqro luaaj”--Ornt,ghhhrnjg4j]

Bmutgfsabgxrnugbmufgvgorbbougfkzugzurl:

ggggggggg“Nr rguxkglswuzguessf,giklbzvgasvgpzulvgbulviuf,
ggggggggggKzugzuosibvlbrgpsofrlragrzugfk k”:

ggggg[“Rgavq,gbmugkbmuzg vt,gvgmkzaugabzsxxorlxgvxvrlabgmrag.rb,
gggggzsamgorcugvgbmsl uz.kobj”--Knr ,gVfkzj,grrrjg4,g13j]

bmug uarzugkpgikfwvltgragvoovtu g.tgxrnrlxgrbgvgorbbougor.uzbtjggQugvzu
wzubbtgfsimgrlgbmugavfugivaugbmutgvzuguhbzufugrlgiklabzvrlb,gqugrl
oriuliujgg‘Bragvgxkk gisabkfgqugmvnugrlgPzvliugbmvbgkszgaklagvzugzuiurnu 
rlbkgbmug.uabgpvfrorua,gbmuzugbkg.ugulbuzbvrlu gvl g.zu gswgwvxua,gvagrl
vgaimkkogkpglk.rorbt;gvl g‘bragokkcu gswklgvagvg raikszbuatgvl gvl
vppzklbgbkgzupsaugbmragbkgvgxulboufvljggRgmvnugbvculglkbriug(pkz,gakgfvlt
pvfrorua,gakgfvltg rppuzrlxgpkzfa)gbmvbgbmugov ruagqmkgmvnug.uul
abzribuabgqrbmgbmurzgfvr agmvnugmv glkg.ubbuzgosicgbmvlgbmkaugqmkgvookqu 
bmufgvgxzuvbuzgor.uzbtjggBmuzugamkso g.ugfk uzvbrklgrlgbmuaugbmrlxa;gklu
fsabgouvnugvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmurzgikl sibgbkgbmurzgkqlg raizubrkl;gpkz,
qmulgvoogikfuagbkgvoo,glkg rairworlugivlgisz.gbmufgbmzksxmksbjgg.sbgrbgra
bzsugqrbmvogbmvbgamugqmkgikfuagkppgqrbmgpotrlxgikokszagpzkfgvgaimkkogkp
or.uzbt,g.zrlxagqrbmgmuzgqmuzuklgbkgzuwkaugfkzugiklpr uliugbmvlgamugqmk
ikfuagvqvtgaksl gpzkfgvgaunuzugvl gabzribgaimkkoj

Kszgpvbmuzag zuaau gswgbmurzg vsxmbuza’gokkcagrlg.vampsoluaagvl gpuvz
(bmurzgikszvxugvl g uarzuag.urlxgbmugavfu);gqugkszagrlgiklpr uliugvl 
vaaszvliu;gqugsl uzabvl glkbmrlxgkpgbmugfvbbuz;gqugfsabgouvnugrbgbkgbmu
Avzfvbrvlgqkful,gqmkgfvtglkbgorugqrbmgvgfvlgbroogqrbmgbmurzgkqlgmvl a
bmutgmvnugprzabgcroou gvlkbmuzgrlg.vbboujggPkzgfu,gqmkgmvnuglkgkbmuz
brbougoupbgfugbkgbmuaugbmrlxag.sbg.tgbmuguvza,g‘bragaspprirulbgrp,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugwzrnrouxugkpgftgvxu,gbmutgzubvrlgfugpkzgklugkpgbmurz
ikslauojgRgv nraugbmufgbmul,gvl gsagfulgbkk,gbkgv.abrluliu;g.sbgrpgbmu
vxugqugornugrlgqrooglkbgul szugrb,gvbgouvabgfk uabtgvl g raizubrkljggPkz,
vagrlgbmugabkztgkpgVzrabrwwsa,gqmk,gawuvcrlxgbkgakfugtkslxgfulgqmk
.osamu gbkgauugmrfgxkgrlbkgvgaivl voksagmksau,gavr g“bmugnriugragrlglkb
ikfrlxgksb,glkbgrlgxkrlxgrl,”goubgmuzgqmkgmvaglkgivzugkpgmuzgiklairuliu
mvnugtubgakfugzuxvz gbkgmuzgzuwsbvbrkl;gvl gbmksxmgamug.ugzkbbulgqrbmrl,
oubgmuzgivzztgvgpvrzgksbar ugvbgouvabj

Rgikfful gvgxzv vbrklgvl g uovtgrlg.uabkqrlxgbmurzgpvnksza:gWovbk
‘ uiovzuagbmvb,grlgvoogakzbagkpgoknu,gpvirorbtgvl gwzkfwbluaagvzu
pkz.r  ulgbkgbmug upul vlbjgg‘Bragvgarxlgkpguvxuzluaagqmrimgbmut
ksxmbgbkg raxsraugqrbmgvoogbmugvzbgbmutgmvnu,gakgzvamot,gqmkoot,gvl 
mvl -knuz-mvl gbkgaszzul uzgbmufauonuajggRlgivzztrlxgbmufauonuagkz uzot
vl gfuvaszu otgrlgbmugxzvlbrlxgbmurzgovabgpvnksza,gbmutgfsimgfkzugvooszu
kszg uarzuagvl gmr ugbmurzgkqljggOubgbmufgabroogpotg.upkzugsa,gunulgbmkau
qmkgmvnugfkabgfrl gbkg.ugknuzbvcul:gbmutg.ubbuzgiklesuzgsag.tgpotrlx,gva
bmugAitbmrvlag r jggBkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugovqgbmvbglvbszu
mvagrfwkau gswklgbmuf,grbgraglkbgwzkwuzotgpkzgbmufgurbmuzgbkgqroogkz
 uarzu;gbmurzgwvzbgragbkgasppuz,gk.ut,gvl giklaulbgvl gpkzgbmragrbgra
bmvbglvbszugmvagxrnulgbmufgvgwuzwubsvogivwvirbt,gqmrimgrlgsagrag.sbgvb
brfuagvl gsliuzbvrl;gbmutgvzugvoqvtagprbgpkzgbmugulikslbuz,gbmvbgbmutgfvt
.ugvoqvtagzuv tgqmulgqugvzugakg“Wvbrglvbuuj”-[“.kzlgbkgasppuzj”-Auluiv,
Uwj,g95j]--Vl gqmuzuvagamugmvagkz uzu gbmvbgkszgvwwubrbuagamvoog.u
fvlrpuabg.tgvgwzkfrlulbg ufklabzvbrkl,gamugqkso gmvnugbmurzagbkg.ugmr  ul
vl gikliuvou gqrbmrl,gvl gmvagpszlramu gbmufgqrbmgwvzbagrfwzkwuzgpkz
kabulbvbrkl,gvl garfwotg upularnujggAsimgwzkiuu rlxagvagbmragbmvbgpkookqa
fsabg.ugoupbgbkgbmugVfvdklrvlgoriuliu:gVouhvl uzgfvzimrlxgmragvzft
bmzksxmgMtzivlrv,gBmvouabzra,gEsuulgkpgbmugVfvdkla,givfugqrbmgbmzuu
msl zu gorxmbgmkzaugkpgmuzgkql-auh,gquoogfkslbu ,gvl gvzfu ,gmvnrlxgoupb
bmugzufvrl uzgkpgvgnuztgxzuvb,gvzftgbmvbgpkookqu gmuzg.umrl gbmu
lurxm.kszrlxgfkslbvrlagbkgxrnugmrfgvgnrarb;gqmuzugamugws.oriotgvl grl
wovrlgbuzfagbko gmrfgbmvbgbmugpvfugkpgmragnvokszgvl gnribkzruagmv 
.zksxmbgmuzgbmrbmuzgbkgauugmrf,gvl gbkgfvcugmrfgvlgkppuzgkpgmuzgpkziuagbk
vaarabgmrfgrlgbmugwszasrbgkpgmragulbuzwzraua;gvl gbmvb,gprl rlxgmrfgak
mvl akfu,gtkslx,gvl gnrxkzksa,gamu,gqmkgqvagvoakgwuzpuibgrlgvoogbmkau
esvorbrua,gv nrau gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgorugbkxubmuz,gbkgbmugul gbmvbgpzkfgbmu
fkabgnvorvlbgqkfvlgkpgbmugqkzo gvl gbmug.zvnuabgfvlgbmulgornrlx,gbmuzu
frxmbgawzrlxgakfugxzuvbgvl gqkl uzpsograasugpkzgbmugbrfugbkgikfuj
Vouhvl uzgzubszlu gmuzgbmvlcagpkzgvoogbmugzuab;g.sb,gbkgxrnugouraszugpkz
bmugviikfworamfulbgkpgmuzgovabg ufvl ,gmug ubvrlu gmuzgbmrzbuulg vtagrl
bmvbgwoviu,gqmrimgquzugawulbgrlgzktvogpuvabrlxgvl gykoorbt,gpkzgbmu
quoikfugkpgakgikszvxuksagvgwzrliuaaj

Qugvzu,gvofkabgbmzksxmksb,gslysabgys xuagkpgbmurzgvibrkla,gvagbmutgvzugkp
kszajggRgiklpuaagbmugbzsbmgqmulgrbgfvcuagvxvrlabgfu,gvagquoogvagqmulg‘bra
klgftgar ujgg‘Bragvlgv.kfrlv.ougrlbufwuzvliugbmvbgwsamuagbmufgklgakgkpbul
bkgimvlxu,gvl gbmvbgqrooglkbgoubgbmufgorfrbgbmurzgvppuibrklgbkgvltgklu
wuzaklgqmvbunuz;gvagragunr ulbgrlgbmvbgxk  uaagbkgqmkfgvzugvbbzr.sbu gak
fvltgimvlxuagvl gakgfvltgoknuzajgg.sbg‘bragbzsugqrbmvogbmvbg‘bragiklbzvzt
bkgbmuglvbszugkpgoknugrpgrbg.u,glkbgnrkoulb;gvl giklbzvztgbkgbmuglvbszu
kpgnrkouliugrpgrbg.ugiklabvlbjggVl gbmutgqmkgqkl uz,guhiovrf,gvl gcuuw
asimgvgiosbbuzgbkgprl gksbgbmugivsauagkpgbmragpzvrobtgkpgbmurza,gva
sllvbszvogvl glkbgbkg.ug.uorunu ,gmkqgikfuagrbgbkgwvaagbmutg kglkb
 raiuzlgmkqgkpbulgbmutgvzugbmufauonuagxsrobtgkpgbmugavfu,gqrbmksbgvlt
vabklramfulbgkzgfrzviougvbgvoo?ggRbgqkso ,gwuzv nulbszu,g.ugfkzugabzvlxu
bkgauugbmugwvaarklgprhu ;g‘braglkbgvgarfwotgikzwkzuvogwvaarkljggRpgbmuzu
.uglkgul gbkgvnvzriugvl gvf.rbrkl,gbmuzugrag ks.bouaaglkgfkzugrlg uarzu;
rbgabroogornuagvpbuzgavbrubt;gvl g‘bragrfwkaar.ougbkgwzuaizr.ugurbmuz
iklabvlbgavbrapvibrklgkzgul ;grbgunuzgxkuag.utkl grbagwkaauaarkljggVl g.t
bmvbgfuvlagrliklabvlit,gwuzv nulbszu,gragrlgakfugakzbgfkzugwvz klv.ougrl
bmufgbmvlgrlgsa:gbmutgfvtgwouv ,gvagquoogvagqu,gbmugrliorlvbrklgbk
nvzrubtgvl glknuobtgikffklgbkgsag.kbm;gvl gauikl ot,gqrbmksbgsa,gbmvb
bmutg.stgvgivbgrlgvgavic:gYkvllv,gesuulgkpgLvwoua,givsau gmuzgprzab
msa.vl ,gVl zuqa,gbkg.ugmvlxu gvbgbmug.vzagkpgmuzgqrl kqgrlgvgmvobuzgkp
xko gvl garocgqknulgqrbmgmuzgkqlgmvl ,g.uivsaugrlgfvbzrfklrvo
wuzpkzfvliuagamuglurbmuzgpksl gmragwvzbaglkzgv.rorbruagvlaquzgbmu
uhwuibvbrklgamugmv gikliurnu gpzkfgmragabvbszu,g.uvsbt,gtksbm,gvl 
vibrnrbt,g.tgqmrimgamugmv g.uulgivsxmbgvl g uiurnu jggBmutgfvtgavtgbmuzu
ragfkzugwvrlagzuesrzu grlg krlxgbmvlgrlgasppuzrlx;gvl gakgbmutgvzugkl
bmurzgwvzbgvoqvtagvbgouvabgwzknr u gpkzgluiuaarbt,gqmuzuvagklgkszgwvzbgrb
fvtgpvoogksbgkbmuzqraujggPkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgqva,gbmvbgWovbkgqrauotgfv ugv
ovqgbmvbg.upkzugfvzzrvxu,gbkg ubuzfrlugkpgbmugprbluaagkpgwuzakla,gbmu
ys xuagamkso gauugbmugtkslxgfulgqmkgwzubul u gbkgrbgabzrwwu gabvzcglvcu ,
vl gbmugqkfulg.sbgbkgbmugxrz ougklotjggQmulgbmutgikfugbkgbztgsagbmutg k
lkb,gwuzmvwa,gprl gsagqkzbmtgkpgbmurzgimkriu:

gggggggggggggg“Uhwuzbvgovbsa,gfv r kesugarfroorfvgokzk
gggggggggggggggRlxsrlv,gluigovaavgabvzugikvibvgfvls,
ggggggggggggggg uauzrbgrf.uoouagbmvovfkaj”

gggggggggg[“Vpbuzgsarlxgunuztgul uvnkszgbkgvzksaugmrfgbkgvibrkl,
ggggggggggamugesrbagbmug.vzzulgiksimj”--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjg58j]

‘Braglkbgulksxmgbmvbgvgfvl’agqroog.ugxkk ;gquvcluaagvl grlaspprirulit
ovqpsootg.zuvcgvgfvzzrvxu,

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgesvuzul sfgvorsl ugpkzubgluznkarsagroos ,
gggggggggggggggEsk gwkaaubgdklvfgakonuzugnrzxrluvf:”

ggggg[“Vl gauucagvgfkzugnrxkzksagoknuzgbkgsl kgmuzgnrzxrlgdkluj”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrjg27j]

qmtglkb?ggvl gviikz rlxgbkgmuzgkqlgabvl vz ,gvlgvfkzksagrlbuoorxuliu,
fkzugoriulbrksagvl gvibrnu,

ggggggggggggggg“Arg.ovl kgluesuvbgaswuzuaaugov.kzrj”

gggggggggg[“Rpgmragabzulxbmg.ugsluesvogbkgbmugwouvavlbgbvacj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrrjg127j]

.sbgragrbglkbgxzuvbgrfws uliugbkgkppuzgkszgrfwuzpuibrklagvl 
rf.uirorbrua,gqmuzugqug uarzugbkgwouvaugvl gouvnugvgxkk gkwrlrklgvl 
uabuufgkpgkszauonua?ggPkzgbmugorbbougbmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkg kglkq:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“V gslsf
gggggggggggggggggggggggggFkooragkwsaj”

gggggggggg[“Prbg.sbgpkzgkliuj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,ghrrjg15j]

Rgqkso glkbgbzks.ougvgqkfvl,gbmvbgRgvfgbkgzunuzuliugvl gpuvz:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Psxugasawrivzr,
ggggggggggggggggggggIsysagsl ulsfgbzuwr vnrbgvubva
ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggIovs uzugosabzsfj”

gggggggggg[“Puvzglkbgmrfgqmkauguounulbmgosabzsfgragiokau j”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg4,g12,gorfrbagrbgbkgbmugurxmbmj]

Lvbszugamkso gavbraptgmuzauopgrlgmvnrlxgzul uzu gbmragvxugfrauzv.ou,
qrbmksbgzul uzrlxgrbgzr risoksagbkkjggRgmvbugbkgauugrb,gpkzgklugwkkzgrlim
kpgwrbrpsognrxkszgqmrimgikfuagswklgrbg.sbgbmzriugvgquuc,gbkgabzsbgvl gaub
rbauopgksbgqrbmgvagfsimguvxuzluaagvagrpgrbgikso g kgfrxmbtgpuvba;gvgbzsu
povfugkpgpovh;gvl govsxmgbkgauugrbgakg.krogvl g.s..ougvl gbmulgrlgv
fkfulbgakgiklxuvou gvl guhbrlxsramu jgBmragvwwubrbugksxmbgbkgvwwuzbvrl
klotgbkgbmugpokquzgkpg.uvsbrpsogtksbm:gbzsabglkbgbkgrbagauikl rlxgbmvb
rl upvbrxv.ou,gpsoo,giklabvlb,gfvxlvlrfksagvz kszgtksgbmrlcgrlgtks,gpkz
rbgqroogiuzbvrlotgouvnugtksgrlgvgwzubbtgikzluz;g.sbgzvbmuzgbzvlapuzgrbgbk
akfugbul uz,g.vampso,gvl grxlkzvlbg.kt,gqmkgtubgbzuf.ouagvbgbmugzk ,gvl 
.osamua:

gggggggggggggg“Rl sfgavlxsrlukgnuosbrgnrkovnuzrbgkabzk
gggggggggggggggArgesragu.sz,gnuogfrabvgzs.ulbgs.rgororvgfsobv
gggggggggggggggVo.vgzkavj”

ggggg[“VagRl rvlgrnkztgabzuvcu gqrbmgizrfakl,gkzgqmrbugororuagfrhu 
gggggqrbmgbmug vfvacgzkauj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg67j]

Qmkgivlgabvtgbroogbmugfkzlrlxgqrbmksbg trlxgpkzgamvfugbkg.umko gbmu
 ra vrlgkpgbmugpvrzgutuagkpgmuzgqmkgclkqagakgquoogmragpsf.orlx
rfwuzbrluliu,

ggggggggggggggg“Ubgbvirbrgpuiuzugbvfulgiklnrirvgnsobsa,”

gggggggggg[“Bmksxmgamuglkbmrlxgavt,gmuzgokkcag.ubzvtgmuzgvlxuzj”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gVfkzj,grjg7,g21j]

mvaglunuzgmv gbmugavbrapvibrklgvl gbmugxokztgkpgmvnrlxgis xuoou gbmuf
broogbmutgquzugquvzt,gqrbmgbmugnrxkzksagwuzpkzfvliugkpgklugmuzkriglrxmbj
QmulgRgmvnugk.auznu gvltgklugbkg.ugnuhu gqrbmgfu,gRgmvnuglkbgwzuaulbot
viisau gmuzgounrbt,g.sbgmvnug.uulgrlg ks.b,grpgRgmv glkbgzuvaklgzvbmuzgbk
ikfwovrlgkpglvbszu;gamugmvag ks.bouaagsau gfugnuztgslirnrootgvl 
slcrl ot:

ggggggggg“Arglklgoklxvgavbra,garglklg.ulugfulbsovgizvaav
ggggggggggLrfrzsfgavwrslb,gnr ulbesugwvznvf
ggggggggggFvbzklvugeskesugfulbsovfgroor.ulbuz:”

ggggg[Bmugprzabgkpgbmuaugnuzauagragbmugikffuliufulbgkpgvlguwrxzvfgkpgbmu
gggggNubuzsfgWkubvtszzvgIvbvouibv,gvl gbmugbqkgkbmuzagvzugpzkfgvlguwrxzvf
gggggrlgbmugavfugikoouibrklg(V gFvbzklua)jggBmutg uaizr.ugslbzvlaovbv.ot
gggggFklbvrxlu’agimvzxugvxvrlabglvbszu,grl rivbu grlgbmugwzunrksa
gggggwvaavxuj]

vl g klugfugvgfkabgulkzfksagrlysztjggUnuztgfuf.uzgRgmvnu,gvagfsimgklugva
vlkbmuz,graguesvootgftgkql,gvl glkgkbmuzgfkzugwzkwuzotgfvcuagfugvgfvl
bmvlgbmraj

Rgslrnuzavootgkqugftgulbrzugwribszugbkgbmugws.orijggBmugqra kfgkpgft
rlabzsibrklgiklarabagrlgor.uzbt,grlgbzsbm,grlguaauliu:g ra vrlrlxgbk
rlbzk siugbmkaugorbbou,gpurxlu ,gikffkl,gvl gwzknrlirvogzsouagrlbkgbmu
ivbvokxsugkpgrbagzuvog sbrua;gvooglvbszvo,gxuluzvo,gvl giklabvlb,
kpgqmrimgirnrorbtgvl giuzufkltgvzug vsxmbuzagrl uu ,g.sbgroouxrbrfvbuj
Qugvzugaszugbkgmvnugbmugnriuagkpgvwwuvzvliu,gqmulgqugamvoogmvnugmv gbmkau
kpguaauliu:gqmulgqugmvnug klugqrbmgbmuau,gqugzslgpsoog zrnugswklgbmu
kbmuza,grpgqugprl grbgfsabg.ugak;gpkzgbmuzugrag vlxuzgbmvbgqugamvoogpvlit
luqgkppriua,gbkguhisaugkszgluxorxuliugbkqvz agbmuglvbszvogklua,gvl gbk
iklpksl gbmuf:gvl gbkgfvlrpuabgbmra,gragrbglkbgauulgbmvbgrlgwoviuagqmuzu
pvsobagvzugizrfua,gizrfuagvzug.sbgpvsoba;gbmvbgrlglvbrklagqmuzugbmugovqa
kpg uiulitgvzugfkabgzvzugvl gfkabgzufraa,gbmugwzrfrbrnugovqagkpgikffkl
zuvaklgvzug.ubbuzgk.auznu :gbmugrllsfuzv.ougfsobrbs ugkpgakgfvltg sbrua
abrporlxgvl g raarwvbrlxgkszgivzujggBmugvwworivbrklgkpgkszauonuagbkgorxmb
vl gbzrnrvogbmrlxag rnuzbagsagpzkfgbmkaugbmvbgvzugluiuaavztgvl gysabj
Km,gmkqgbmuaugaswuzprirvogfulgbvcugvlguvatgvl gwovsar.ougqvtgrl
ikfwvzraklgkpgksza!ggBmuaugvzugamv kqagqmuzuqrbmgqugwvoorvbugvl gwvtgklu
vlkbmuz;g.sbgqug kglkbgwvt,g.sbgrlpovfugbmugzuicklrlxgbkqvz agbmvbgxzuvb
ys xu,gqmkgbsicagswgkszgzvxagvl gbvbbuzagv.knugkszgamvfupsogwvzba,gvl 
asicouaglkbgbkgnruqgsagvoogknuz,gunulgbkgkszgrlfkabgvl gfkabgauizub
kz szua:grbgquzugvgsaupsog uiulitgkpgkszgfvr ulotgfk uabt,gikso grbgcuuw
mrfgpzkfgbmrag raiknuztjggRlgprlu,gqmkunuzgikso gzuiovrfgfvlgpzkfgak
aizswsoksagvgnuz.vogaswuzabrbrkl,gqkso g kgbmugqkzo glkgxzuvbg raauznriuj
Kszgorpugrag rnr u g.ubqrhbgpkootgvl gwzs uliu:gqmkunuzgqroogqzrbugkpgrb
.sbgqmvbgragzunuzul gvl givlklrivo,gqroogouvnugv.knugbmugklu-mvopg.umrl j
Rg kglkbguhisaugftauopgbkgftauop;gvl grpgRg r ,grbgamkso gzvbmuzg.ugpkz
ftguhisauagbmvbgRgqkso guhisaugftauopgbmvlgpkzgvltgkbmuzgpvsob;gRguhisau
ftauopgkpgiuzbvrlgmsfksza,gqmrimgRgbmrlcgfkzugabzklxgrlglsf.uzgbmvlgbmkau
bmvbgvzugklgftgar ujggRlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgqmrim,gRgqroogpszbmuzgavtgbmra
(pkzgRg uarzugbkgwouvaugunuztgklu,gbmksxmgrbgqroog.ugmvz gbkg k):

gggggggggg“Uaaugslsfgmkfrlufgviikffk vbsfgv gbvlbvfgfkzsf
ggggggggggvigauzfklsfgubgnkoslbvbsfgnvzrubvbuf,”

ggggg[“Pkzgvgfvlgbkgiklpkzfgbkgasimgvgnvzrubtgkpgfvlluza,
ggggg raikszaua,gvl gqrooj”--EjgIriuzk,g ugWubjgIklaso,gijg14j]

bmvbgbmutgksxmbglkbgbkgikl uflgfugpkzgqmvbgRgfvcugvsbmkzrbrua,gzuiurnu 
vl gvwwzknu g.tgakgfvltgvxua,gbkgsbbuz:gvl gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgzuvaklgbmvb
pkzgqvlbgkpgzmtfugbmutgamkso gzupsaugfugbmugor.uzbtgbmutgvookqgunulgbk
imszimfulgkpgkszglvbrklgvl gbrfu,gvl gbmuaugvfklxabgbmugfkabglkbv.ou,gkp
qmrimgmuzugvzugbqkgkpgbmurzg.zracgnuzaua:

gggggggggg“Zrfsov,g rawuzuvf,glrgfklkxzvffvgbsvguabj”

gggggggggg“Slgnrbg ’vftgovgiklbulbugubg.rulgbzvribu:”

ggggg[AbjgXuovra,g(UsnzuagWkubresua),gwjg99,gu jgkpgOtkla,g1574j]

.uar uagmkqgfvltgkbmuzajggRgoknugfk uabt;gvl g‘braglkbgksbgkpgys xfulb
bmvbgRgmvnugimkaulgbmragaivl voksagqvtgkpgawuvcrlx;g‘braglvbszugbmvbgmva
imkaulgrbgpkzgfujggRgikfful grbglkb,glkgfkzugbmvlgkbmuzgpkzfagbmvbgvzu
iklbzvztgbkgikffklgsau:g.sbgRguhisaugrb,gvl g.tgirzisfabvliuag.kbm
xuluzvogvl gwvzbrisovz,gvoounrvbugrbagviisavbrklj

.sbgbkgwzkiuu jggQmuliu,gbkk,givlgwzkiuu gbmvbgsaszwvbrklgkpgaknuzurxl
vsbmkzrbtgtksgbvcugswklgtksgknuzgbmugqkful,gqmkgpvnkszgtksgvbgbmurzgkql
uhwulau,

ggggggggggggggg“Argpszbrnvg u rbgfrzvgfslsaisovglkibu,”

ggggg[“Rp,grlgbmugabuvobmtglrxmb,gamugmvagfv ugabzvlxugxrpbaj”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrrrjg145j]

akgbmvbgtksgwzuaulbotgvaasfugbmugrlbuzuab,giko luaa,gvl gvsbmkzrbtgkpgv
msa.vl ?gg‘Bragvgpzuugiklbzvibgqmtg kgtksglkbgbmulgcuuwgbkgrb,gvagtks
qkso gmvnugbmufg k?ggbmuzugraglkgwzuaizrwbrklgswklgnkoslbvztgbmrlxaj
‘Bragvxvrlabgbmugpkzf,g.sbgrbgragbzsugqrbmvo,gbmvbgRgrlgftgbrfugmvnu
ikl sibu gbmrag.vzxvrlgvagfsimgvagbmuglvbszugkpgrbgqkso gwuzfrb,gva
iklairulbrksaotgvl gqrbmgvagfsimgikokszgkpgysabriu,gvagvltgkbmuz
iklbzvib;gvl gbmvbgRglunuzgwzubul u gkbmuzgvppuibrklgbmvlgqmvbgRgzuvoot
mv ,gvl gmvnugbzsotgviesvrlbu gbmufgqrbmgrbag.rzbm,gnrxksz,gvl 
 uiorlvbrkl,grbagprbagvl grlbuzfraarkla:gvgfvlg kuaglkbgvoqvtagmko gkl
vbgbmugavfugzvbujggRgmvnug.uulgakgawvzrlxgkpgftgwzkfraua,gbmvbgRgbmrlc
Rgmvnug.uulg.ubbuzgbmvlgftgqkz jggBmutgmvnugpksl gfugpvrbmpsogunulgbk
auznriugkpgbmurzgrliklabvlit,gvgiklpuaau gvl gakfubrfuagfsobrworu 
rliklabvlitjggRglunuzg.zkcugqrbmgbmuf,gqmroabgRgmv gvltgmko gvbgvoo,gvl 
qmvbgkiivarklgakunuzgbmutgmvnugxrnulgfu,glunuzg.zkcugqrbmgbmufgbkgmvbzu 
kzgiklbufwb;gpkzgasimgwzrnvirua,gbmksxmgk.bvrlu gswklglunuzgakgaivl voksa
buzfa,g kgtubgk.orxugbkgakfugxkk gqroo:gRgmvnugakfubrfua,gswklgbmurz
bzricagvl gunvarkla,g raiknuzu gvgorbbougrl raizuubgvlxuzgvl grfwvbruliu;
pkzgRgvfglvbszvootgas.yuibgbkgzvamgufkbrkla,gqmrim,gbmksxmgorxmbgvl 
amkzb,gkpbulgawkrogftgfvzcubjggVbgvltgbrfugbmutgmvnugiklasobu gft
ys xfulb,gRglunuzgabsicgbkgxrnugbmufgamvzwgvl gwvbuzlvogikslauoa,gvl gbk
wrlimgbmufgbkgbmugesricjggRpgRgmvnugoupbgbmufgvltgivsaugbkgikfwovrlgkp
fu,g‘bragzvbmuzgbkgmvnugpksl grlgfu,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugfk uzlgsau,gv
oknugpkkoramotgiklairulbrksagbmvlgvltbmrlxguoaujggRgmvnugcuwbgft,gqkz grl
bmrlxagqmuzurlgRgfrxmbguvarotgmvnug.uulg rawulau ;gbmutgakfubrfua
aszzul uzu gbmufauonuagqrbmgzuwsbvbrkl,gvl gswklgvzbriouagbmvbgbmutgquzu
qroorlxgulksxmgamkso g.ug.zkculg.tgbmugiklesuzkz:gRgmvnu,gfkzugbmvlgkliu,
fv ugwouvaszugrlgrbagxzuvbuabguppkzbgabzrcugbkgbmugrlbuzuabgkpgbmurz
mklksz;gvl gqmuzugzuvaklgrfwkzbslu gfu,gmvnugvzfu gbmufgvxvrlabgftauop;
akgbmvbgbmutgkz uzu gbmufauonuagfkzug uikzksaotgvl gauiszuotg.tgftgzsoua,
qmulgbmutgpzvlcotgzupuzzu gbmufauonuagbkgbmuf,gbmvlgbmutgqkso gmvnug klu
.tgbmurzgkqljggRgmvnugunuz,gvagfsimgvagRgikso ,gqmkootgbvculgswklgftauop
voklugbmugmvdvz gkpgkszgvaarxlvbrkla,gbkgviesrbgbmuf;gvl gmvnugvoqvta
iklbzrnu gkszgfuubrlxagvpbuzgbmugmvz uabgvl gfkabgslsasvogfvlluz,gvagouaa
asawuibu ,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gfkzugviiuaar.oujggBmutgvzu
imrupotgfkzugkwul,gqmuzugbmutgbmrlcgbmutgvzugfkabgauiszuotgamsb;gbmrlxa
ouvabgpuvzu gvzugouvabgrlbuz ribu gvl gk.auznu ;gklugfvtgfkzug.ko otg vzu
qmvbglk.k tgbmrlcagtksg vzu,gqmrimg.tgrbag rpprisobtg.uikfuaguvatjggLunuz
mv gvltgfvlgmragvwwzkvimuagfkzugrfwuzbrlulbotgxuluzvbrnu;gbmragqvtgkp
oknrlxgragfkzugviikz rlxgbkg rairworlug.sbgmkqgzr risoksagrbgragbkgksz
wukwou,gvl gmkqgrluppuibsvo,gqmkg.ubbuzgclkqagbmvlgR?gtubgRgamvooglkb
zuwulbgfugkpgrb;gRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbmuzugfkzugbkgokau:

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Fugbv.sovgaviuz
gggggggggggggggggggggggggNkbrnvgwvzrua,grl rivbgsnr v
gggggggggggggggggggggggggAsawul raaugwkbulbr
gggggggggggggggggggggggggNuabrfulbvgfvzrag uk:”

ggggg[“Bmugmkotgqvoo,g.tgftgnkbrnugbv.ou,gamkqagbmvbgRgmvnugmvlxu gswgft
gggggqubgiokbmuagrlgmklkszgkpgbmugwkquzpsogxk gkpgbmugauvj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grjgg5,g13j]

‘braglkqgbrfugbkgawuvcgksbjgg.sbgvagRgfrxmb,gwuzgv nulbszu,gavtgbk
vlkbmuz,g“Bmksgbvocuabgr ot,gftgpzrul ;gbmugoknugkpgbmtgbrfugmvagorbbou
ikffuziugqrbmgpvrbmgvl grlbuxzrbt;”

gggggggggggggg“Mvuigargbsgwkabsoua
gggggggggggggggZvbrklugiuzbvgpviuzu,glrmrokgwosagvxva,
gggggggggggggggEsvfgarg uagkwuzvf,gsbgisfgzvbrklugrlavlrva:”

ggggg[“Rpgtksgauucgbkgfvcugbmuaugbmrlxagiuzbvrlg.tgzuvakl,gtksgqroog kglk
gggggfkzugbmvlgrpgtksgamkso gauucgbkg.ugfv grlgtkszgaulauaj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gUslj,gvibgrj,gaijggr,gnjg16j]

klgbmugiklbzvzt,gvoak,grpgrbgquzugpkzgfugbkg.uxrlgvxvrl,giuzbvrlotgrb
amkso g.ug.tgbmugavfugfubmk gvl gbmugavfugwzkxzuaa,gmkqgpzsrbouaagakunuz
rbgfrxmbg.ugbkgfu;gpkootgvl grlaspprirulitgvzugikfful v.ougrlgvl
rlikfful v.ougvibrkl:gbmugpvzbmuzgRgxkgpzkfgbmurzgmsfkszgrlgbmra,gR
vwwzkvimgakgfsimgluvzuzgbkgftgkqljggVagbkgbmugzuab,grlgbmragbzvppri,gR
 r glkbgasppuzgftauopgbkg.ugbkbvootgivzzru gvqvt;gRgwouvau gftauopgrlgrb,
.sbg r glkbgpkzxubgftauopjggRgzubvrlu gbmugorbbougaulaugvl g raizubrkl
bmvbglvbszugmvagxrnulgfu,gulbrzugpkzgbmurzgauznriugvl gftgkql:gvgorbbou
ufkbrkl,g.sbglkg kbvxujggFtgiklairuliu,gvoak,gqvagulxvxu grlgrb,gunulgbk
 u.vsimgvl goriulbrksaluaa;g.sb,gvagbkgrlxzvbrbs u,gbzuvimuzt,gfvoriu,
vl gizsuobt,glunuzjggRgqkso glkbgwszimvaugbmugwouvaszugkpgbmragnriugvb
vltgwzriu,g.sbgiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgrbagwzkwuzgvl garfwougikab:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lsoosfgrlbzvgaugnrbrsfguabj”

gggggggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragvgnriugrlgrbauopj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g95j]

Rgvofkabguesvootgmvbugvgabswr gvl gaokbmpsogovdrluaa,gvagRg kgvgbkroakfu
vl gwvrlpsogufwoktfulb;gbmragwrlimua,gbmugkbmuzgovtagfugvaouuwjggRgorcu
qksl agvagquoogvag.zsraua,gvl gisbagvagquoogvag ztg.okqajggRgpksl grl
bmragikffuziu,gqmulgRgqvagbmugfkabgv.ougpkzgrb,gvgysabgfk uzvbrklg.ubqrhb
bmuauguhbzufuajggOknugragvgawzrxmbot,gornuot,gvl gxvtgvxrbvbrkl;gRgqva
lurbmuzgbzks.ou glkzgvpporibu gqrbmgrb,g.sbgmuvbu ,gvl gfkzuknuz,
 rakz uzu ;gvgfvlgfsabgabkwgbmuzu;grbgmszbaglk.k tg.sbgpkkoajggVgtkslx
fvlgvacu gbmugwmrokakwmuzgWvlubrsagrpgrbgquzug.uikfrlxgvgqraugfvlgbkg.u
rlgoknu?gg“Oubgbmugqraugfvlgokkcgbkgbmvb,”gvlaquzu gmu,g“.sbgoubglkbgbmks
vl gR,gqmkgvzuglkbgak,gulxvxugkszauonuagrlgakgabrzzrlxgvl gnrkoulbgvl
vppvrz,gbmvbgulaovnuagsagbkgkbmuza,gvl gzul uzagsagiklbufwbr.ougbk
kszauonuaj”ggMugavr gbzsugbmvbgqugvzuglkbgbkgrlbzsabgvgbmrlxgak
wzuirwrbksagrlgrbauopgbkgvgaksogbmvbgmvaglkbgqmuzuqrbmvogbkgqrbmabvl grba
vaavsobagvl g rawzknugwzvibrivootgbmugavtrlxgkpgVxuarovsa,gbmvbgwzs uliu
vl goknugivllkbgornugbkxubmuzjgg‘Bragvgnvrlgufwoktfulb,g‘bragbzsu,
sl.uikfrlx,gamvfupso,gvl groouxrbrfvbu;g.sbgivzzru gklgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz,
Rgokkcgswklgrbgvagqmkouakfu,gvl gwzkwuzgbkgulornulgvg zkqatgaksogvl gbk
zksaugswgvgmuvntg.k t;gvl ,gvagvlguhwuzruliu gwmtarirvl,gRgqkso 
wzuaizr.ugrbgbkgvgfvlgkpgftgpkzfgvl gikl rbrkl,gvagakklgvagvltgkbmuz
zuirwugqmvbunuz,gbkgzksaugvl gcuuwgmrfgrlgnrxkszgbroogquoogv nvliu grl
tuvza,gvl gbkg upuzgbmugvwwzkvimuagkpgvxujggQmroabgqugvzug.sbgrlgbmu
as.sz.a,gvl gbmvbgbmugwsoaugtubg.uvba:

ggggggggg“ sfglknvgivlrbrua,g sfgwzrfvgubgzuibvgauluibsa,
gggggggggg sfgaswuzuabgovimuargesk gbkzesuvb,gubgwu r.sagfu
ggggggggggWkzbkgfura,glsookg uhbzvfgas.uslbug.virook,”

ggggg[“Qmroabgbmugqmrbugmvrzgragluq,gqmroabgko gvxugragabroogabzvrxmb
gggggamkso uzu ,gqmroabgbmuzugabroogzufvrlagakfubmrlxgpkzgOvimuaragbk
gggggawrl,gqmroabgRgqvocgklgftgkqlgouxa,gvl gluu glkgabvppgbkgouvlgswklj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,grrrjg26j]

qugmvnugluu gbkg.ugakorirbu gvl gbricou g.tgakfugasimglrwwrlxgrlirbvbrkl
vagbmrajgg kg.sbgk.auznugqmvbgtksbm,gnrxksz,gvl gxvrubtgrbgrlawrzu gbmu
xkk gVlvizuklgqrbmvo:gvl gAkizvbua,gqmkgqvagbmulgko uzgbmvlgR,gawuvcrlx
kpgvlgvfkzksagk.yuib:

“Ouvlrlx,”gavr gmu,g“ftgamkso uzgbkgmuzgamkso uz,gvl gftgmuv gbkgmuza,gva
qugquzugzuv rlxgbkxubmuzgrlgvg.kkc,gRgpuob,gqrbmksbg raauf.orlx,gvgas  ul
abrlxgrlgftgamkso uzgorcugbmug.rbrlxgkpgvlgrlauib,gqmrimgRgabroogpuob
v.knugprnug vtagvpbuz,gvl gvgiklbrlsvogrbimrlxgizuwbgrlbkgftgmuvzbj”ggAk
bmvbgfuzuotgbmugviir ulbvogbksim,gvl gkpgvgamkso uz,gmuvbu gvl gvobuzu gv
aksogikkou gvl guluznu g.tgvxu,gvl gbmugabzribuabgornuzgkpgvoogfvlcrl j
Vl ,gwzvt,gqmtglkb?ggAkizvbuagqvagvgfvl,gvl gqkso glurbmuzg.u,glkzgauuf,
vltgkbmuzgbmrlxjggWmrokakwmtg kuaglkbgiklbul gvxvrlabglvbszvogwouvaszua,
wzknr u gbmutg.ugfk uzvbu,gvl gklotgwzuvimuagfk uzvbrkl,glkbgvgbkbvo
v.abrluliu;gbmugwkquzgkpgrbagzuarabvliugragufwoktu gvxvrlabgbmkaugbmvb
vzugv sobuzvbugvl gabzvlxujggWmrokakwmtgavtagbmvbgbmugvwwubrbuagkpgbmu
.k tgksxmbglkbgbkg.ugvsxfulbu g.tgbmugfrl ,gvl grlxulrksaotgqvzlagsaglkb
bkgabrzgswgmslxuzg.tgavbszrbt;glkbgbkgabspp,grlabuv gkpgfuzuotgproorlx,
bmug.uoot;gbkgvnkr gvoogulyktfulbagbmvbgfvtg.zrlxgsagbkgqvlb;gvl gvoo
fuvbagvl g zrlcagbmvbg.zrlxgbmrzabgvl gmslxuz:gva,grlgbmugauznriugkp
oknu,gamugwzuaizr.uagsagbkgbvcugasimgvlgk.yuibgvagfvtgarfwotgavbraptgbmu
.k t’agluu ,gvl g kuaglkbgabrzgbmugakso,gqmrimgksxmbgklotg.vzuotgbk
pkookqgvl gvaarabgbmug.k t,gqrbmksbgfrhrlxgrlgbmugvppvrzjgg.sbgmvnugRglkb
zuvaklgbkgmko gbmvbgbmuaugwzuiuwba,gqmrim,grl uu ,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gvzu
akfuqmvbgknuzgabzrib,gklotgikliuzlgvg.k tgrlgrbag.uabgworxmb;gvl gbmvbgrl
vg.k tg.zkculgqrbmgvxu,gvagrlgvgquvcgabkfvim,g‘braguhisav.ougbkgqvzfgvl 
aswwkzbgrbg.tgvzb,gvl g.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpgbmugpvlitgbkgzuabkzugbmu
vwwubrbugvl gimuuzpsoluaagrbgmvagokabgkpgrbauopj

Fvtgquglkbgavtgbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgrlgsa,g szrlxgbmraguvzbmotgwzrakl,
bmvbgragwszuotgurbmuzgikzwkzuvogkzgawrzrbsvo;gvl gbmvbgqugrlyszrksaot
.zuvcgswgvgfvlgvornu;gvl gbmvbgrbgauufag.sbgzuvaklv.ougbmvbgqugamkso 
ivzztgkszauonuagvagpvnkszv.ot,gvbgouvab,gbkqvz agbmugsaugkpgwouvaszugva
qug kgbkqvz agbmvbgkpgwvrl!ggWvrlgqvag(pkzguhvfwou)gnumufulbgunulgbk
wuzpuibrklgrlgbmugaksoagkpgbmugavrlbag.tgwulrbuliu:gbmug.k tgmv gbmuzu
lvbszvootgvgamvfg.tgbmugzrxmbgkpgslrkl,gvl gtubgfrxmbgmvnug.sbgorbbou
wvzbgrlgbmugivsau;gvl gtubgvzugbmutglkbgiklbulbu gbmvbgrbgamkso g.vzuot
pkookqgvl gvaarabgbmugvpporibu gakso:gbmutgmvnugvpporibu grbauopgqrbm
xzrunksagvl gawuirvogbkzfulba,gbkgbmugul gbmvbg.tgufsovbrklgkpgklu
vlkbmuzgbmugaksogvl g.k tgfrxmbgwoslxugfvlgrlbkgfrauztg.tgakgfsimgfkzu
avosbrpuzksagvagrbgragfkzugaunuzujggRlgorcugfvlluz,gragrbglkbgrlysabriu,
rlg.k rotgwouvaszua,gbkgas. sugvl gcuuwgsl uzgbmugakso,gvl gavtgbmvbgrb
fsabgbmuzurlg.ug zvxxu gvoklxgvagbkgakfugulpkziu gvl gauznrougk.orxvbrkl
vl gluiuaarbt?gg‘Bragzvbmuzgmuzgwvzbgbkgmvbimgvl gimuzramgbmuf,gbmuzugbk
wzuaulbgmuzauop,gvl gbkgrlnrbugbmuf,gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgzsorlxg.uoklxrlxgbk
muz;gvagrbgragvoakgmuzgwvzb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,grlgwouvaszuagbmvbgvzugwzkwuz
bkgmuz,gbkgrlawrzugvl grlpsaugrlbkgbmug.k tgvoogbmugaulbrfulbgrbgra
ivwv.ougkp,gvl gbkgabs tgmkqgbkgfvcugbmufgaquubgvl gsaupsogbkgrbjggPkzgrb
ragxkk gzuvakl,gvagbmutgavt,gbmvbgbmug.k tgamkso glkbgwszasugrba
vwwubrbuagbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmugfrl ;g.sbgqmtgragrbglkbgvoakgbmugzuvakl
bmvbgbmugfrl gamkso glkbgwszasugmuzagbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmug.k t?

Rgmvnuglkgkbmuzgwvaarklgbkgcuuwgfugrlg.zuvbmjggQmvbgvnvzriu,gvf.rbrkl,
esvzzuoa,govqasrbag kgpkzgkbmuzagqmk,gorcugfu,gmvnuglkgwvzbrisovz
nkivbrkl,goknugqkso gfsimgfkzugikffk rksaotg k;grbgqkso gzuabkzugbkgfu
nrxrovliu,gak.zrubt,gxzviu,gvl gbmugivzugkpgftgwuzakl;grbgqkso gzuvaaszu
ftgikslbulvliu,gakgbmvbgbmugxzrfviuagkpgko gvxu,gbmkaug upkzfu gvl 
 rafvogokkca,gfrxmbglkbgikfugbkg raxzviugrb;gqkso gvxvrlgwsbgfugswkl
aksl gvl gqraugabs rua,g.tgqmrimgRgfrxmbgzul uzgftauopgfkzugoknu gvl 
uabuufu ,giouvzrlxgftgfrl gkpgbmug uawvrzgkpgrbauopgvl gkpgrbagsau,gvl 
zu rlbuxzvbrlxgrbgbkgrbauop;gqkso g rnuzbgfugpzkfgvgbmksavl gbzks.ouakfu
bmksxmba,gvgbmksavl gfuovlimkorigmsfkszagbmvbgr ouluaagvl gbmugroo
wkabszugkpgkszgmuvobmgokv agsagqrbmvogvbgasimgvlgvxu;gqkso gqvzfgvxvrl,
rlg zuvfagvbgouvab,gbmug.okk gbmvbglvbszugragv.vl klrlx;gqkso gmko gsw
bmugimrl,gvl gvgorbbougabzubimgksbgbmugluznua,gbmugnrxkszgvl gxvrubtgkp
orpugkpgbmvbgwkkzgfvlgqmkgragxkrlxgpsoog zrnugbkqvz agmragzsrljgg.sbgR
nuztgquoogsl uzabvl gbmvbgrbgragvgikffk rbtgmvz gbkgzuiknuz:g.tgquvcluaa
vl goklxguhwuzruliugkszgbvabugrag.uikfugfkzug uorivbugvl glriu;gqugvac
fkabgqmulgqug.zrlxgouvab,gvl gvzugmvz uzgbkgimkkaugqmulgqugouvabg uauznu
bkg.ugviiuwbu :gvl gclkqrlxgkszauonuagpkzgqmvbgqugvzu,gqugvzugouaa
iklpr ulbgvl gfkzug rabzsabpso;glkbmrlxgivlgvaaszugsagkpg.urlxg.uoknu ,
iklar uzrlxgkszgikl rbrklgvl gbmurzajggRgvfgksbgkpgikslbulvliugbkgauu
ftauopgrlgikfwvltgqrbmgbmkaugtkslxgqvlbklgizuvbszua:

gggggggggggggg“Isysagrlgrl kfrbkgiklabvlbrkzgrlxsrlugluznsa,
gggggggggggggggEsvfglknvgikoor.sagvz.kzgrlmvuzubj”

ggggg[“Rlgqmkaugsl.zr ou gzurlagbmugnrxkszgragfkzugrlmuzulbgbmvlgrlgbmu
gggggtkslxgbzuugklgbmugmrooaj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,ghrrjg19j]

Bkgqmvbgul gamkso gqugxkgrlarlsvbugkszgfrauztgvfr gbmurzgxvtgvl 
awzrxmbotgmsfksz?

ggggggggggggggggggg“Wkaarlbgsbgysnuluagnrauzugpuznr rj
ggggggggggggggggggggFsobkglklgarlugzras,
gggggggggggggggggggg rovwavfgrlgirluzuagpviufj”

ggggg[“Vagbmugpuznr gtksbmagfvtg.umko ,glkbgqrbmksbgovsxmbuz,gvg.szlrlx
gggggbkzimgqkzlgbkgvamuaj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjgg13,g21j]

Bmutgmvnugabzulxbmgvl gzuvaklgklgbmurzgar u;goubgsagxrnugqvt;gqugmvnu
lkbmrlxgbkg kgbmuzu:gvl gbmuaug.okaakfagkpgawzrlxrlxg.uvsbtgasppuzglkb
bmufauonuagbkg.ugmvl ou g.tgasimg.ulsf.u gmvl aglkzg uvobgqrbmg.tgfuzu
fvbuzrvogfuvla,gpkz,gvagbmugko gwmrokakwmuzgvlaquzu gklugqmkgyuuzu gmrf
.uivsaugmugikso glkbgxvrlgbmugpvnkszgkpgvgtkslxgxrzogmugfv ugoknugbk:
“Pzrul ,gbmugmkkcgqrooglkbgabricgrlgasimgakpbgimuuauj”ggRbgragvgikffuziu
bmvbgzuesrzuagzuovbrklgvl gikzzuawkl uliu:gbmugkbmuzgwouvaszuagqugzuiurnu
fvtg.ugviclkqou xu g.tgzuikfwulauagkpgvlkbmuzglvbszu,g.sbgbmragraglkbgbk
.ugwvr g.sbgqrbmgbmugavfugcrl gkpgikrljggRlguvzluab,grlgbmragawkzb,gbmu
wouvaszugRgxrnugfkzugbricouagftgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvlgbmvbgbmutgxrnugfu;glkq,
mugmvaglkbmrlxgkpgxuluzkarbtgrlgmrfgqmkgivlgzuiurnugwouvaszugqmuzugmu
iklpuzaglklu--rbgfsabgluu ag.ugvgfuvlgaksogbmvbgqroogkqugvoo,gvl givlg.u
iklbulbgbkgfvrlbvrlgzuovbrklagqrbmgwuzaklagbkgqmkfgmugragvgiklbrlsvo
imvzxu;gbmuzugraglkg.uvsbt,gxzviu,glkzgwzrnvitgakguhesrarbugbmvbgv
xulboufvlgksxmbgbkg uarzugvbgbmragzvbujggRpgbmutgivlgklotg.ugcrl gbkgsa
ksbgkpgwrbt,gRgmv gfsimgzvbmuzg rugbmvlgornugswklgimvzrbtjggRgqkso gmvnu
zrxmbgbkgvac,grlgbmugabtougqmuzurlgRgmuvz gbmufg.uxgrlgRbvot:g“Pvbug.ul
wuzgnkr,”--[“ kgxkk gpkzgtkszauopj”]--kzgvpbuzgbmugfvlluzgbmvbgItzsa
uhmkzbu gmragako ruza,g“Qmkgoknuagmrfauopgoubgmrfgpkookqgfuj”--“Iklakzb
tkszauop,”gakfugklugqroogavtgbkgfu,g“qrbmgqkfulgkpgtkszgkqlgikl rbrkl,
qmkfgorcugpkzbslugqroogzul uzgfkzuguvatgbkgtkszg uarzuj”ggKgzr risoksa
vl grlarwr gikfwkarbrkl!

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lkok
gggggggggggggggggggg.vz.vfgnuoouzugfkzbskgouklrj”

gggggggggg[“Rgqkso glkbgwosicgbmug.uvz gpzkfgvg uv gorklj”--Fvzbrvo]

Hulkwmklgovtagrbgpkzgvlgk.yuibrklgvl gvlgviisavbrklgvxvrlabgFulkl,gbmvb
muglunuzgfv ugoknugbkgvltg.sbgko gqkfuljggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgbvcugfkzu
wouvaszugrlg.sbgauurlxgbmugysabgvl gaquubgfrhbszugkpgbqkgtkslxg.uvsbrua,
kzgklotgrlgfu rbvbrlxgklgrbgrlgftgpvlit,gbmvlgftauopgrlgvibrlxgauikl grl
vgwrbrpsogvl grfwuzpuibgiklyslibrkl;

ggggg[QmrimgIkbbklgzul uza,g“Bmvlgbkg.ugftauopgvlgvibkzgrlgbmugauikl 
gggggqrbmgvg upkzfu gizuvbszuj”]

RgouvnugbmvbgpvlbvabrigvwwubrbugbkgbmugUfwuzkzgXvo.v,gqmkgqvagklotgpkz
ko giszzru gpouam:gvl gbkgbmragwkkzgqzubim:

gggggggggggggg“Kguxkg rgpvirvlbgbvoufgbkgiuzluzugwkaarf,
gggggggggggggggIvzvesugfsbvbragkaisovgpuzzugikfra,
gggggggggggggggVfwouibresugfuragikzwsaglklgwrlxsugoviuzbra!”

ggggg[Knr ,gqmkg(UhjggWklbk,grjg4,g49)gqzrbuagbkgmragqrpu,g“Kgqkso gbmu
gggggxk agvzzvlxugbmvbgasimgRgfrxmbgauugbmuu,gvl g.zrlxg uvzgcraauagbk
gggggbmtgimvlxu gokica,gvl guf.zviugbmtgqrbmuzu g.k tgqrbmgftgvzfa”]

Vfklxabgimrupg upkzfrbruagRgzuicklgpkziu gvl gvzbrprirvog.uvsbrua:gMufkl,
vgtkslxg.ktgkpgImrka,gbmrlcrlxg.tgprlug zuaarlxgbkgviesrzugbmug.uvsbt
bmvbglvbszugmv g ulru gmrf,givfugbkgbmugwmrokakwmuzgVziuarovsagvl gvacu 
mrfgrpgrbgqvagwkaar.ougpkzgvgqraugfvlgbkg.ugrlgoknu--“Tua,”gzuworu gmu,
“wzknr u grbg.uglkbgqrbmgvgpvz u gvl gv sobuzvbu g.uvsbtgorcugbmrluj”

ggggg[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,grnjgg36jggBmugesuabrklgqvagqmubmuzgvgqraugfvl
gggggikso goknugmrfjggIkbbklgmvag“Ufklud,gvgtkslxgikszbudvlgkpgImrkaj”]

Sxorluaagkpgvgiklpuaau gvlbresrbtgragbkgfugouaagko gvl gouaagsxotgbmvl
vlkbmuzgbmvbgragwkoramu gvl gwovabuzu gswjggAmvoogRgawuvcgrb,gqrbmksbgbmu
 vlxuzgkpgmvnrlxgftgbmzkvbgisb?goknu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,graglkbgwzkwuzotgvl 
lvbszvootgrlgrbagauvakl,g.sbgrlgbmugvxugluhbgbkgimro mkk ,

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esufgargwsuoovzsfgrlauzuzuagimkzk,
ggggggggggggggggggggFroougavxviuagpvoouzubgmkawrbua,
gggggggggggggggggggg raizrfulgk.aiszsf,gakosbra
ggggggggggggggggggggIzrlr.sagvf.rxskesugnsobs:”

ggggg[“Qmkfgrpgbmksgamkso abgwoviugrlgvgikfwvltgkpgxrzoa,grbgqkso 
gggggzuesrzugvgbmksavl guhwuzbagbkg rabrlxsramgmrf,gqrbmgmragokkaugokica
gggggvl gvf.rxsksagikslbulvliuj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg5,g21j]

lkzg.uvsbtglurbmuz;gpkzgqmuzuvagMkfuzguhbul agrbgakgpvzgvagbkgbmug.s  rlx
kpgbmug.uvz ,gWovbkgmrfauopgmvagzufvzcu gbmragvagzvzu:gvl gbmugzuvaklgqmt
bmugakwmrabg.rklgakgwouvavlbotgivoou gbmugprzabgvwwuvzrlxgmvrzagkp
v kouaiuliug‘Vzrabkxrbkla’gvl g‘Mvzfk rsaua’--[Wosbvzim,gKlgOknu,gij34j]--
ragaspprirulbotgclkqljggRgprl grbgrlgnrzrorbtgvozuv tgrlgakfugakzbgv
orbbougksbgkpg vbu,gbmksxmglkbgakgfsimgvagrlgko gvxu;

ggggggggggggggggggg“Rfwkzbslsagulrfgbzvlankovbgvzr va
ggggggggggggggggggggEsuzisaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Pkzgrbgslirnrootgwvaauagknuzgqrbmuzu gkvcaj”
gggggggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjg13,g9j]

vl gFvzxsuzrbu,gEsuulgkpgLvnvzzu,gorcugvgqkfvl,gnuztgpvzguhbul agbmu
v nvlbvxugkpgqkful,gkz vrlrlxgbmvbgrbgragbrfu,gvbgbmrzbtgtuvzagko ,gbk
iklnuzbgbmugbrbougkpgpvrzgrlbkgbmvbgkpgxkk jggBmugamkzbuzgvsbmkzrbtgqu
xrnugbkgoknugknuzgkszgornua,g‘bragakgfsimgbmug.ubbuzgpkzgsajgg kg.sb
k.auznugmragwkzb;g‘bragvg.uvz ouaag.ktjggQmkgclkqaglkbgmkq,grlgmragaimkko
bmutgwzkiuu giklbzvztgbkgvoogkz uz;gabs t,guhuzirau,gvl gsavxugvzugbmurz
qvtagpkzgrlaspprirulitgbmuzuglknriuagzsou:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Vfkzgkz rlufgluairbj”

gggggggggg[“Oknugrxlkzuagzsouaj”g(Kz:)g“Oknugclkqaglkgzsouj”
ggggggggggg--AbjgYuzkfu,gOubbuzgbkgImtkfvbrsaj]

 ks.bouaagmragikl sibgragfsimgfkzugxzviupsogqmulgfrhu gqrbmgrlv nuzbulit
vl gbzks.ou;gfraivzzrvxuagvl groogasiiuaauagxrnugmrfgwkrlbgvl gxzviu;
wzknr u grbg.ugamvzwgvl guvxuz,g‘braglkgxzuvbgfvbbuzgqmubmuzgrbg.u
wzs ulbgkzglk:g kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgmugxkuagzuuorlx,gbzrwwrlx,gvl gwovtrlx:
tksgwsbgmrfgrlgbmugabkicagqmulgtksgxsr ugmrfg.tgvzbgvl gqra kf;gvl gmugra
zuabzvrlu gkpgmrag rnrlugor.uzbtgqmulgwsbgrlbkgbmkaugmvrztgvl givooksa
iosbimuaj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gRgkpbulgmuvzgbmugqkfulgaubgksbgbmragrlbuoorxuliugva
ulbrzuotgawrzrbsvo,gvl g ra vrlgbkgwsbgbmugrlbuzuabgbmugaulauagbmuzugmvnu
rlbkgiklar uzvbrkl;gunuztbmrlxgbmuzugauznua;g.sbgRgivlgavtgbmvbgRgmvnu
kpbulgauulgbmvbgqugmvnuguhisau gbmugquvcluaagkpgbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxagrl
pvnkszgkpgbmurzgksbqvz g.uvsbt,g.sbgmvnuglunuzgtubgauulgbmvbgrlgpvnkszgkp
frl ,gmkqgfvbszugvl gpsoogakunuz,gvltgkpgbmufgqkso gmko gksbgvgmvl gbkgv
.k tgbmvbgqvaglunuzgakgorbbougrlg uiv uliujggQmtg kuaglkbgakfugklugkp
bmufgbvcugrbgrlbkgmuzgmuv gbkgfvcugbmvbglk.ougAkizvbrivog.vzxvrlg.ubquul
.k tgvl gakso,gwszimvarlxgvgwmrokakwmrivogvl gawrzrbsvogrlbuoorxuliugvl 
xuluzvbrklgvbgbmugwzriugkpgmuzgbmrxma,gqmrimgragbmugmrxmuabgwzriugamugivl
xubgpkzgbmuf?ggWovbkgkz vrlagrlgmragOvqagbmvbgmugqmkgmvagwuzpkzfu gvlt
arxlvogvl gv nvlbvxuksaguhwokrbgrlgqvzgfvtglkbg.ugzupsau g szrlxgbmu
qmkouguhwu rbrkl,gmragvxugkzgsxorluaaglkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvgcraagkzgvlt
kbmuzgvfkzksagpvnkszgpzkfgvltgqkfvlgqmvbunuzjggQmvbgmugbmrlcagbkg.ugak
ysabgrlgzuikfful vbrklgkpgfrorbvztgnvoksz,gqmtgfvtgrbglkbg.ugbmugavfugrl
zuikfful vbrklgkpgvltgkbmuzgxkk gesvorbt?gvl gqmtg kuaglkbgakfugqkfvl
bvcugvgpvlitgbkgwkaauaagknuzgmuzgikfwvlrklagbmugxokztgkpgbmragimvabu
oknu?ggRgfvtgquoogavtgimvabu;

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lvfgargesvl kgv gwzvuorvgnulbsfguab,
gggggggggggggggSbgeskl vfgrlgabrwsoragfvxlsagarlugnrzr.sagrxlra,
gggggggggggggggRlivaasfgpszrb:”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmulgbmutgakfubrfuagulxvxugrlgoknu’ag.vbbou,
gggggmragabuzrougvz kszgorxmbagswg.sbgvagbmugpovfugkpgvgabzvqj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrrjgg98j]

bmugnriuagbmvbgvzugabrpou grlgbmugbmksxmbgvzuglkbgbmugqkzabj

Bkgiklios ugbmraglkbv.ougikffulbvzt,gqmrimgmvaguaivwu gpzkfgfugrlgv
bkzzulbgkpg.v..ou,gvgbkzzulbgakfubrfuagrfwubsksagvl gmszbpso,

gggggggggggggg“Sbgfraasfgawklargpszbrnkgfsluzugfvosf
gggggggggggggggWzkiszzrbgivabkgnrzxrlragvgxzufrk,
gggggggggggggggEsk gfrauzvugk.orbvugfkoorgas.gnuabugokivbsvb,
ggggggggggggggg sfgv nulbsgfvbzragwzkarorb,guhisbrbsz,
gggggggggggggggVbesugroos gwzklkgwzvuiuwagvxrbszg uiszas
gggggggggggggggMsrigfvlvbgbzrabrgiklairsagkzugzs.kzj”

ggggg[“Vagqmulgvlgvwwou,gaulbg.tgvgoknuzgauizubotgbkgmragfrabzuaa,gpvooa
gggggpzkfgbmugimvabugnrzxrl’ag.kakf,gqmuzugamugmv gesrbugpkzxkbbulgrb;
gggggqmul,gabvzbrlxgvbgmuzgfkbmuz’agikfrlxgrl,grbgragamvculgksbgvl gzkooa
gggggknuzgbmugpokkzg.upkzugmuzgutua,gvgiklairksag.osamgiknuzagmuzgpviuj”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnjg19j]

Rgavtgbmvbgfvouagvl gpufvouagvzugivabgrlgbmugavfugfkso ,gvl gbmvb,
u sivbrklgvl gsavxuguhiuwbu ,gbmug rppuzuliugraglkbgxzuvbjggWovbk
rl rppuzulbotgrlnrbuag.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgbkgbmugakirubtgkpgvoo
abs rua,guhuziraua,gvl gnkivbrkla,g.kbmgfrorbvztgvl girnro,grlgmra
Ikffklquvobm;gvl gbmugwmrokakwmuzgVlbrabmuluagzuyuibu gvoog rabrlibrkl
.ubqrhbgbmurzgnrzbsugvl gkszajggRbgragfsimgfkzuguvatgbkgviisaugklugauh
bmvlgbkguhisaugbmugkbmuz;g‘bragviikz rlxgbkgbmugavtrlx,

ggggggggggggggg“Ougpkszxklgaugfkesug ugovgwvuouj”
ggggggggggggggggggg[“BmugWkbgvl gbmugCubbouj”]




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgxvoovlbgfvlg kuaglkbgxrnugknuzgmragwszasrbgpkzg.urlxgzupsau 
gggggVgov tgikso glkbg.kvabgkpgmuzgimvabrbtgqmkgqvaglunuzgbufwbu 
gggggVwwubrbugragfkzugamvzwgbmvlgklugvozuv tgmvop-xosbbu g.tgbmugutua
ggggg.vampsoluaagragvlgkzlvfulbgbkgtksbm,g.sbgvgzuwzkvimgbkgko gvxu
gggggIuzbvrlgkbmuzgbmrlxagbmvbgwukwougmr ugklotgbkgamkqgbmuf
gggggImrupotgcluqgmrfauopgbkg.ugfkzbvog.tgbmragvib
ggggg uvzluaagragvgxkk gavsiugbkgfuvb
gggggUvimgvfklxabgtksgmvagfv ugakfu.k tgisicko 
gggggUvbgtkszg.zuv gqrbmgbmugavsiugkpgvgfkzugwouvarlxgrfvxrlvbrkl
gggggUnv ugbmragbkzfulbrlxgvl gslwzkprbv.ougclkqou xu
gggggPufrlrlugwkorbtgmvagvgftabuzrksagwzkiu szu
gggggPuqgfulgmvnugfv ugvgqrpugkpgvgfrabzuaa,gqmkgmvnuglkbgzuwulbu grb
gggggPrzabgbmrlxgbkg.ugiklar uzu grlgoknugfvbbuza:gvgprbbrlxgbrfu
gggggPzrul ,gbmugmkkcgqrooglkbgabricgrlgasimgakpbgimuuauj
gggggXrnugbmugov ruagvgizsuogiklbufwbgkpgkszglvbszvogpszlrbszu
gggggXsuaagvbgkszgfuvlrlxgsl uzgxuluzvogvl g ks.bpsogbuzfa
gggggMvbugvoogakzbagkpgk.orxvbrklgvl gzuabzvrlb
gggggMvnugunuzgmv gvgxzuvbgzuawuibgpkzgmuzgRgoknu 
gggggMvnuglkgkbmuzgbrbougoupbgfugbkgbmuaugbmrlxag.sbg.tgbmuguvza
gggggMuvbgvl gabrzgswgbmurzgrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gbmulgqugprl gpvsob
gggggMsa.vl agmvbugbmurzgqrnuagklotg.uivsaugbmutgbmufauonuag kgqzklx
gggggRgvfgvwbgbkg zuvfgbmvbgRg zuvf
gggggRg kglkbgavtgbmvbg‘bragquoogavr ,g.sbgquoogbmksxmb
gggggRgmv gfsimgzvbmuzg rugbmvlgornugswklgimvzrbtj
gggggRgqvagvoqvtagaswuzabrbrksaotgvpzvr gkpgxrnrlxgkppuliu
gggggRpgRgvfgbvocrlxgftg.uab,gqmkunuzgrlbuzzswbagfu,gabkwagfu
gggggRpgbmutgivlgklotg.ugcrl gbkgsagksbgkpgwrbt
gggggRlgunuztbmrlxguoaugvgfvlgfvtgcuuwgakfug uikzsf
gggggRlgbmkaug vta,gbmugbvrokzgbkkcgfuvaszugkpgrb
gggggRliorlvbrklgbkgnvzrubtgvl glknuobtgikffklgbkgsag.kbm
gggggRliklar uzvbuguhisauagvzugvgcrl gkpgauop-viisavbrkl
gggggRlbuz ribrklgrlirbua,gvl gqmkgvzugfkzuguvxuz,g.urlxgpkz.r  ul
gggggRbgmvwwula,gvagqrbmgivxua,gbmug.rz agqrbmksbg uawvrzgbkgxubgrl
gggggYuvoksat:glkgzufu tg.sbgporxmbgkzgwvbruliu
gggggYs xfulbgkpg sbtgwzrlirwvootgoruagrlgbmugqroo
gggggOv ruagvzuglkgakkluzgksza,gbmvlgqugvzuglkgfkzugbmurza
ggggg“Oubgvgfvlgbvcugqmrimgikszaugmugqroo,”gavr gmu;g“mugqroogzuwulbj”
ggggggOubgsaglkbg.ugvamvfu gbkgawuvcgqmvbgqugvzuglkbgvamvfu gbkgbmrlc
gggggOknugragbmugvwwubrbugkpgxuluzvbrklg.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpg.uvsbt
gggggOknugamvfupsootgvl g ramkluabotgiszu g.tgfvzzrvxu
gggggOknugbmufgbmugouaagpkzgkszgkqlgpvsoba
gggggOknu,gpsoo,gornuot,gvl gamvzw;gvgwouvaszugrlpovfu g.tg rpprisobt
gggggFvlgfsabgvwwzkvimgmragqrpugqrbmgwzs uliugvl gbufwuzvliu
gggggFvzzrvxugzuyuibagbmugikfwvltgvl gikl rbrklagkpgoknu
gggggFulgfvcugbmufg(bmugzsoua)gqrbmksbgbmurzg(qkful’a)gmuow
gggggFrapkzbsluagbmvbgklotgmszbgsag.tg.urlxgclkql
gggggFk uabtgragvgpkkoramgnrzbsugrlgvlgrl rxulbgwuzaklg(Mkfuz)
gggggFkabgkpgftgvibrklagvzugxsr u g.tguhvfwou,glkbg.tgimkriu
gggggLurbmuzgiklbrlulitglkzgnrzbsugqmuzugbmuzugvzuglkgkwwkarlxg uarzu
gggggLkg krlxgfkzug rpprisobgbmvlgbmvbglkbg krlx,glkzgfkzugvibrnu
gggggKgqzubimu gful,gqmkaugwouvaszuagvzugvgizrfu
gggggK,gbmugpszrksagv nvlbvxugkpgkwwkzbslrbt!
gggggK.auznu gbmugovqagkpgfvzzrvxu,gbmvlgRgurbmuzgwzkfrau gkzguhwuib
gggggKlugfvtgfkzug.ko otg vzugqmvbglk.k tgbmrlcagtksg vzu
gggggKz uzgrbgakgbmvbgtkszgnrzbsugfvtgiklesuzgtkszgfrapkzbslu
gggggWovbkgavta,gbmvbgbmugxk agfv ugfvlgpkzgbmurzgawkzb
gggggWouvaszugkpgbuoorlxg(vgwouvaszugorbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgbmvbgkpg krlx)
gggggWzruabgamvoogklgbmugqu  rlx- vtgkwulgbmugqvtgbkgbmug.zr u
gggggWzs ulbgfvl,gqmulgRgrfvxrlugmrfgrlgbmragwkabszu
gggggZvxugikfwuoou gbkguhisaugrbauopg.tgvgwzubuliugkpgxkk -qroo
gggggZvbmuzg.ugvgouaagqmrougko gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugRgvfgzuvootgak
gggggZuwzuaulbu gmuzgvgorbbougbkkgwvaarklvbugpkzgvgfvzzru gNulsa
gggggZunulxugfkzugqksl agkszgimro zulgbmvlgrbgmuvoagsa
gggggAuh:gBkgwsbgpkkoagvl gqraugful,g.uvabagvl gsa,gklgvgounuo
gggggAmvzwagvl gaquubagkpgfvzzrvxu,gvzugcuwbgauizubg.tgbmugqrau
gggggArlagbmvbgfvcugbmugouvabglkraugvzugbmugqkzab
gggggAouuwgasppkivbuagvl gaswwzuaauagbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugakso
gggggAspprirulbotgiknuzu g.tgbmurzgnrzbsugqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgzk.u
gggggBmug.uabgvsbmkzagbkkgfsimgmsf.ougvl g raikszvxugfu
gggggBmugrfwsoaugkpglvbszu,gqmrimgragvgzksxmgikslauookz
gggggBmugwzrnrouxugkpgbmugfrl gbkgzuaisugrbauopgpzkfgko gvxu
gggggBmurzg raxsrauagvl gprxszuagklotgauznugbkgikaulgpkkoa
gggggBmuzugraglkgvooszufulbgorcugfk uabt,grpgrbg.uglkbgzs u
gggggBmuaugaouuwt,gaosxxramgakzbgkpgfulgvzugkpbulgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa
gggggBmutg.ubbuzgiklesuzgsag.tgpotrlx
gggggBmutg.stgvgivbgrlgvgavic
gggggBmutguzzgvagfsimgqmkgbkkgfsimgpkz.uvzgNulsa
gggggBmutgfsabg.uikfugrlaular.ougvl grlnrar.ougbkgavbraptgsa
gggggBmutgqmkgqkso gprxmbgisabkfgqrbmgxzvffvzgvzugbzrpouza
gggggBmkaugqmrimgqugpuvzgbmugouvabgvzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gfkabgbkg.ugpuvz
gggggBmkaugqrbmrlg(fvzzrvxu)g uawvrzgkpgxubbrlxgksb
gggggBragvoogaqrlu’agpouam,gnvzru g.tgavsiua
gggggBkgqmvbgpzrul g vzugtksgrlbzsabgtkszgxzrupa
gggggBqvagvgmvwwtgfvzzrvxug.ubqrhbgvg.orl gqrpugvl gvg uvpgmsa.vl 
gggggSlysabgys xuagkpgbmurzgvibrkla,gvagbmutgvzugkpgksza
gggggNuztgr uvgqugrlnulbgpkzgbmurzgimvabrbtgragzr risoksa
gggggNrzbsugragvgwouvavlbgvl gxvtgesvorbt
gggggQugvacgfkabgqmulgqug.zrlxgouvab
gggggQugavtgvgxkk gfvzzrvxug.uivsauglkgklugavtagbkgbmugiklbzvztj
gggggQmulgyuvoksatgaurduagbmuaugwkkzgaksoa
gggggQmulgbmurzgutuagxrnugbmugorugbkgbmurzgbklxsu
gggggQmkguaivwuag.urlxgbvocu gkpgvbgbmugavfugzvbu
gggggQra kfgmvagrbaguhiuaaua,gvl gmvaglkgouaagluu gkpgfk uzvbrkl
gggggQkso grlgbmragvppvrzgmvnugvgfvlgvgorbbougwovtgbmugauznvlb






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg16j

NRjgggggggKpgIkvimuaj
NRRjggggggKpgbmugRliklnulruliugkpgXzuvbluaaj
NRRRjgggggKpgbmugVzbgkpgIklpuzuliuj



IMVWBUZgNR

KPgIKVIMUA

Rbgragnuztguvatgbkgnuzrpt,gbmvbgxzuvbgvsbmkza,gqmulgbmutgqzrbugkpgivsaua,
lkbgklotgfvcugsaugkpgbmkaugbmutgbmrlcgbkg.ugbmugbzsugivsaua,g.sbgvoakgkp
bmkaugbmutg.uorunuglkbgbkg.ugak,gwzknr u gbmutgmvnugrlgbmufgakfug.uvsbt
vl grlnulbrkl:gbmutgawuvcgbzsugvl gsaupsootgulksxm,grpgrbg.ugrlxulrksaotj
Qugivllkbgfvcugkszauonuagaszugkpgbmugaswzufugivsau,gvl gbmuzupkzugizkq gv
xzuvbgfvltgbkxubmuz,gbkgauugrpgrbgfvtglkbgviir ulbvootg.ugvfklxabgbmuf:

ggggggggggggggg“Lvfesugslvfg riuzugivsavf
ggggggggggLklgavbraguab,gnuzsfgwoszua,gsl ugslvgbvfulgarbj”

ggggg[Osizubrsa,gnrjg704j--Bmugaulaugragrlgbmugwzuiu rlxgwvaavxuj]

 kgtksgvacgfu,gqmuliugikfuagbmugisabkfgkpg.ouaarlxgbmkaugqmkgaluudu?
Qug.zuvcgqrl gbmzuugaunuzvogqvta;gbmvbgqmrimgavooruagpzkfg.uokqgragbkk
probmt;gbmvbgqmrimg.zuvcagksbgpzkfgbmugfksbmgivzzruagqrbmgrbgakfu
zuwzkvimgkpgxosbbklt;gbmugbmrz gragaluudrlx,gqmrim,g.uivsaugrbgwzkiuu a
pzkfgbmugmuv gvl gragqrbmksbgkppuliu,gqugxrnugrbgbmragirnrogzuiuwbrkl:g k
lkbgovsxmgvbgbmrag rabrlibrkl;gbmutgavtg‘bragVzrabkbou’aj

RgbmrlcgRgmvnugauulgrlgWosbvzim’g(qmkgkpgvoogbmugvsbmkzagRgclkq,gragmu
qmkgmvag.uabgfrhu gvzbgqrbmglvbszu,gvl gys xfulbgqrbmgclkqou xu),gmra
xrnrlxgvagvgzuvaklgpkzgbmu,gzrarlxgkpgbmugabkfvimgrlgbmkaugqmkgvzugvb
auv,gbmvbgrbgragkiivarklu g.tgpuvz;gmvnrlxgprzabgpksl gksbgakfugzuvaklg.t
qmrimgmugwzknuagbmvbgpuvzgfvtgwzk siugasimgvlguppuibjggR,gqmkgvfgnuzt
as.yuibgbkgrb,gclkqgquoogbmvbgbmragivsaugikliuzlaglkbgfu;gvl gRgclkqgrb,
lkbg.tgvzxsfulb,g.sbg.tgluiuaavztguhwuzruliujggQrbmksbgrlabvlirlxgqmvb
mvag.uulgbko gfu,gbmvbgbmugavfugbmrlxgkpbulgmvwwulagrlg.uvaba,guawuirvoot
mkxa,gqmkgvzugksbgkpgvoogvwwzumularklgkpg vlxuz;gvl gqmvbgvlgviesvrlbvliu
kpgfrlugbko gfugkpgmrfauop,gbmvbgbmksxmgnuztgas.yuibgbkgrb,gbmu
 rawkarbrklgbkgnkfrbgmvagbmzuugkzgpkszgbrfuagxklugkppgmrf,g.urlxgnuzt
vpzvr grlgvgnrkoulbgabkzf,gvagrbgmvwwulu gbkgbmvbgvlirulb:

gggggggggg“Wuysagnuhv.vz,gesvfgsbgwuzrisosfgfrmrgasiiszzuzub;”

gggggggggg[“Rgqvagbkkgroogbkgbmrlcgkpg vlxuzj”g(Kzgbmugzunuzau:)
gggggggggg“Rgqvagbkkgpzrxmbulu gbkg.ugrooj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g53jg2]

Rgqvaglunuzgvpzvr gswklgbmugqvbuz,glkzgrl uu grlgvltgkbmuzgwuzrog(vl gR
mvnugmv gulksxmg.upkzugftgutuagbmvbgqkso gmvnugasppriu ,grpg uvbmg.u
klu),gakgvagbkg.ugvabksl u gbkgokaugftgys xfulbjggPuvzgawzrlxagakfubrfua
vagfsimgpzkfgqvlbgkpgys xfulbgvagpzkfgqvlbgkpgikszvxujggVoogbmug vlxuzagR
mvnug.uulgrlgRgmvnugokkcu gswklgqrbmksbgqrlcrlx,gqrbmgvlgkwul,gaksl ,gvl 
ulbrzugarxmb;gvl ,grl uu ,gvgfvlgfsabgmvnugikszvxugbkgpuvzjggRbgpkzfuzot
auznu gfug.ubbuzgbmvlgkbmuzgmuow,gakgbkgkz uzgvl gzuxsovbugftgzubzuvb,
bmvbgrbgqva,grpglkbgqrbmksbgpuvz,glunuzbmuouaagqrbmksbgvppzrxmbgvl 
vabklramfulb;grbgqvagvxrbvbu ,grl uu ,g.sbglkbgvfvdu gkzgabswupru j
Xzuvbgaksoagxkgtubgfsimgpvzbmuz,gvl gwzuaulbgbkgsagporxmba,glkbgklot
abuv tgvl gbufwuzvbu,g.sbgfkzuknuzgokpbtjggOubgsagfvcugvgzuovbrklgkpgbmvb
qmrimgVoir.rv uagzuwkzbagkpgAkizvbua,gmragpuookqgrlgvzfa:g“Rgpksl gmrf,”
gavtagmu,g“vpbuzgbmugzksbgkpgkszgvzft,gmrfgvl gOvimud,govabgvfklxgbmkau
qmkgpou ,gvl giklar uzu gmrfgvbgftgouraszugvl grlgauiszrbt,gpkzgRgqva
fkslbu gklgvgxkk gmkzau,gvl gmugklgpkkb,gvagmugmv gpksxmbjggRgbkkc
lkbriu,grlgbmugprzabgwoviu,gmkqgfsimgys xfulbgvl gzuakosbrklgmugamkqu ,
rlgikfwvzraklgkpgOvimud,gvl gbmulgbmug.zvnuztgkpgmragfvzim,glkbmrlx
 rppuzulbgpzkfgmragkz rlvztgxvrb;gmragarxmbgprzfgvl gzuxsovz,giklar uzrlx
vl gys xrlxgqmvbgwvaau gv.ksbgmrf,gokkcrlxgklugqmrougswklgbmkau,gvl gbmul
swklgkbmuza,gpzrul agvl gulufrua,gvpbuzgasimgvgfvlluzgvagulikszvxu 
bmkau,gvl garxlrpru gbkgbmugkbmuzagbmvbgmugqkso gauoogmragorpug uvzgbk
vltgklugqmkgamkso gvbbufwbgbkgbvcugrbgpzkfgmrf,gvl gakgbmutgivfugkpp;gpkz
wukwougvzuglkbgqroorlxgbkgvbbvicgasimgcrl gkpgful,g.sbgwszasugbmkaugbmut
auugvzugrlgvgpzrxmbj”ggBmvbgragbmugbuabrfkltgkpgbmragxzuvbgivwbvrl,gqmrim
buvimuagsa,gqmvbgqugunuztg vtguhwuzruliu,gbmvbglkbmrlxgakgfsimgbmzkqagsa
rlbkg vlxuzagvagvlgrliklar uzvbuguvxuzluaagkpgxubbrlxgkszauonuagiouvzgkp
bmuf:

ggggg“Eskgbrfkzragfrlsaguab,gukgfrlsagpuzfugwuzrisorguabj”

ggggg[“Qmulgbmuzugragouvabgpuvz,gbmuzugragpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgouvab
ggggg vlxuzj”--Ornt,ghhrrjg5j]

Kszgwukwougvzugbkg.ovfugqmkgavtgbmvbgasimgvlgklugragvpzvr gkpg uvbm,gqmul
bmutgqkso guhwzuaagbmvbgmugbmrlcagkpgrbgvl gpkzuauuagrb:gpkzuarxmbgra
uesvootgiklnulrulbgrlgqmvbgikliuzlagsa,gqmubmuzgxkk gkzgroojggBkgiklar uz
vl gys xugkpg vlxuzgra,grlgakfugakzb,gbmugzunuzaugbkg.urlxgvabksl u j
Rg kglkbgprl gftauopgabzklxgulksxmgbkgasabvrlgbmugpkziugvl grfwubskarbt
kpgbmragwvaarklgkpgpuvz,glkzgkpgvltgkbmuzgnumufulbgwvaarklgqmvbunuz:grpgR
qvagkliugiklesuzu gvl g.uvbulg kqlg.tgrb,gRgamkso glunuzgzraugvxvrlgnuzt
aksl jggQmkunuzgamkso gkliugfvcugftgaksogokaugmuzgpkkbrlx,gqkso glunuz
aubgmuzgswzrxmbgvxvrl:gamugzubvabuagvl gzuauvzimuagmuzauopgbkk
wzkpksl ot,gvl gbkkgfsimgbkgbmugesric,gvl gbmuzupkzugqkso glunuzgoubgbmu
qksl gamugmv gzuiurnu gmuvogvl girivbzraujggRbgmvag.uulgquoogpkzgfugbmvb
lkgaricluaagmvagtubg raikfwkau gmuz:gvbgunuztgimvzxugfv ugswklgfu,gR
wzuauznugftgsbfkabgkwwkarbrklgvl g upuliu;g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmugprzabgbmvb
amkso gzksbgfugqkso gcuuwgfugpzkfgunuzgzvootrlxgvxvrljggRgmvnuglk
vpbuz-xvfugbkgwovt:gklgqmrimgar ugakunuzgbmugrlsl vbrklg.zuvcagftg.vlca,
Rgorugkwul,gvl gvfg zkqlu gqrbmksbgzufu tjggUwriszsagavta,gbmvbgvgqrau
fvlgivlglunuzg.uikfugvgpkko;gRgmvnugvlgkwrlrklgzunuzaugbkgbmragaulbuliu,
qmrimgra,gbmvbgmugqmkgmvagkliug.uulgvgnuztgpkko,gqrooglunuzgvpbuzg.ugnuzt
qraujgXk gxzvlbagfugiko gviikz rlxgbkgftgiokbm,gvl gwvaarkla
wzkwkzbrklv.ougbkgbmugfuvlagRgmvnugbkgqrbmabvl gbmuf:glvbszugmvnrlxgovr 
fugkwulgklgbmugklugar u,gmvagiknuzu gfugklgbmugkbmuz;gmvnrlxg ravzfu gfu
kpgabzulxbm,gamugmvagvzfu gfugqrbmgrlaular.rorbtgvl gvlgvwwzumularklgbmvb
ragzuxsovz,gkz,grpgtksgqroo,g sooj

Rgivllkbglkqgoklxgul szug(vl gqmulgRgqvagtkslxgikso gfsimgouaa)gurbmuz
ikvim,gorbbuz,gkzg.kvb,gvl gmvbugvoogkbmuzgzr rlxg.sbgklgmkzau.vic,g.kbm
rlgbkqlgvl gikslbztjgg.sbgRgivlg.uvzgvgorbbuzgqkzaugbmvlgvgikvim;gvl ,g.t
bmugavfugzuvakl,gvgzksxmgvxrbvbrklgswklgbmugqvbuz,gqmuliugpuvzgra
wzk siu ,g.ubbuzgbmvlgbmugfkbrklagkpgvgivofjggVbgbmugorbbougyuzcagkp
kvza,gabuvorlxgbmugnuaauogpzkfgsl uzgsa,gRgprl ,gRgclkqglkbgmkq,g.kbmgft
muv gvl gftgabkfvimg rakz uzu ;glurbmuz-ivlgRgul szugbkgarbgswklgv
bkbbuzrlxgimvrzjggQmulgbmugavrogkzgbmugiszzulbgivzzruagsaguesvoot,gkz
bmvbgqugvzugbkqu ,gbmuguesvogvxrbvbrklg kuaglkbg rabsz.gfugvbgvoo;g‘bra
vlgrlbuzzswbu gfkbrklgbmvbgkppul agfu,gvl gfkabgkpgvoogqmulgfkabgaokq:gR
ivllkbgkbmuzqrauguhwzuaagrbjggBmugwmtarirvlagmvnugkz uzu gfugbkgaesuudu
vl gxrz gftauopgv.ksbgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmug.uootgqrbmgvglvwcrlgbkgzufu t
bmragunro;gqmrimgmkqunuzgRgmvnuglkbgbzru ,g.urlxgviisabkfu gbkgqzuabou
qrbmgftgkqlg upuiba,gvl gknuzikfugbmufgftauopj

Qkso gftgfufkztgauznugfu,gRgamkso glkbgbmrlcgftgbrfugroogawulbgrlgaubbrlx
 kqlgmuzugbmugrlprlrbugnvzrubtgbmvbgmrabkztgwzuaulbagsagkpgbmugsaugkp
imvzrkbagrlgbmugauznriugkpgqvz:gnvzrksa,gviikz rlxgbkgbmuglvbrklagvl 
viikz rlxgbkgbmugvxu;grlgftgkwrlrkl,gkpgxzuvbgluiuaarbtgvl guppuib;gak
bmvbgrbgragvgqkl uzgbmvbgqugmvnugokabgvoogclkqou xugkpgbmufjggRgqroogklot
avtgbmra,gbmvbgnuztgovbuot,grlgkszgpvbmuza’gbrfu,gbmugMslxvzrvlagfv u
nuztgv nvlbvxuksagsaugkpgbmufgvxvrlabgbmugBszca;gmvnrlxgrlgunuztgklugkp
bmufgvgbvzxubbuzgvl gvgfsacubuuz,gvl gvglsf.uzgkpgmvzesu.sauagwrou gzuv t
vl gokv u ,gvl gvoogiknuzu gqrbmgvgwvnuav ugorcugvgxvoorkb--[Ivlnva
awzuv gvoklxgbmugar ugkpgvgamrwgkpgqvz,grlgvibrklgbkgaizuulgbmugfknufulba
kpgbmkaugklg.kvz j]--Bmutgpkzfu gbmugpzklbgkpgbmurzg.vbbougqrbmgbmzuu
bmksavl gasimgikvimua,gvl gvpbuzgbmugivllklgmv gwovtu ,gfv ugbmufgvoo
wkszgrlgbmurzgamkbgswklgbmuguluft,gqmkgmv gbkgaqvookqgbmvbgnkooutg.upkzu
bmutgbvabu gkpgbmugzuab,gqmrimgqvaglkgorbbougv nvliu;gvl gbmvbg klu,
bmuaugimvzrkbagimvzxu grlbkgbmurzgaesv zklagbkg.zuvcgbmufgvl gkwulgvgqvt
pkzgbmugzuab;g.uar uagbmugsaugbmutgfrxmbgfvcugkpgbmufgbkgpovlcgbmu
ako ruzagrlgvgwoviugkpg vlxuzgqmulgfvzimrlxgbkgbmugpruo ,gkzgbkgiknuzgv
wkab,gvl gpkzbrptgrbgrlgmvabujggRlgftgbrfu,gvgxulboufvlgklgklugkpgksz
pzklbruza,gslqruo tgkpg.k t,gvl gprl rlxglkgmkzaugv.ougbkgivzztgmra
qurxmb,gmvnrlxgvgesvzzuo,gzk ugbmzksxmgbmugikslbztgrlgvgimvzrkbgkpgbmra
pvamrkl,gvl gpksl gxzuvbgiklnulruliugrlgrbjgg.sbgoubgsagouvnugbmuau
imvzrkbagkpgqvzj

Vagrpgbmurzguppufrlvit--[QmrimgIkbbklgbzvlaovbua:g“vagrpgbmu
rlarxlrprivlitgkpgikvimuaj”g]--mv glkbg.uulgaspprirulbotgclkqlg.tg.ubbuz
wzkkpa,gbmugovabgcrlxagkpgkszgprzabgzviugbzvnuoou grlgvgimvzrkbg zvqlg.t
pkszgkhuljggFvzigVlbkltgqvagbmugprzabgvbgZkfugqmkgivsau gmrfauopgbkg.u
 zvqlgrlgvgikvimg.tgorkla,gvl gvgarlxrlxgqulimgqrbmgmrfj

ggggg[Itbmuzra,gbmugZkfvlgikszbudvlj--Wosbvzim’agOrpugkpgVlbklt,gijg3j
gggggBmra,gqvagbmugavfugwuzaklgqmkgragrlbzk siu g.tgXvoosagsl uzgbmuglvfu
gggggkpgOtikzrajggXvoosag ks.bouaagcluqgmuzgwuzaklvootj]

Muorkxv.vosag r garliugvagfsim,givoorlxgmrfauopgIt.uou,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgbmu
xk a;gvl gvoakg zvqlg.tgbrxuza,gbvcrlxgswklgmrfgbmugwuzaklgkpgbmugxk 
.viimsa;gmugvoakgakfubrfuagmvzluaau gbqkgabvxagbkgmragikvim,gvlkbmuzgbrfu
pkszg kxa,gvl gvlkbmuzgpkszglvcu gqulimua,givsarlxgmrfauopgbkg.ug zvqlg.t
bmufgrlgwkfw,gabvzcglvcu gbkkjggBmugUfwuzkzgPrzfsagivsau gmragimvzrkbgbk
.ug zvqlg.tgkabzrimuagkpgvgwzk rxrksagardu,gakgbmvbgrbgauufu gzvbmuzgbk
potgbmvlgzkooj

Bmugabzvlxuluaagkpgbmuaugrlnulbrklagwsbagbmragkbmuzgpvlitgrlgftgmuv :
bmvbgrbgragvgcrl gkpgwsaroovlrfrbtgrlgfklvzima,gvl gvgbuabrfkltgbmvbgbmut
 kglkbgaspprirulbotgsl uzabvl gbmufauonuagqmvbgbmutgvzu,gqmulgbmutgabs t
bkgfvcugbmufauonuagmklkszu gvl gbkgvwwuvzgxzuvbg.tguhiuaarnuguhwulau:grb
quzugrl uu guhisav.ougrlgvgpkzurxlgikslbzt,g.sbgvfklxabgbmurzgkql
as.yuiba,gqmuzugbmutgvzugrlgaknuzurxlgikffvl ,gvl gfvtg kgqmvbgbmut
wouvau,grbg uzkxvbuagpzkfgbmurzg rxlrbtgbmugfkabgaswzufug uxzuugkpgmklksz
bkgqmrimgbmutgivlgvzzrnu:gysabgva,gfubmrlca,grbgragaswuzposksagrlgv
wzrnvbugxulboufvlgbkgxkgprluotg zuaau gvbgmkfu;gmragmksau,gmra
vbbul vlba,gvl gmragcrbimulgaspprirulbotgvlaquzgpkzgmrfjggBmugv nriugbmvb
Rakizvbuagxrnuagmragcrlxgauufagbkg.ugxzksl u gswklgzuvakl:gbmvbgmugamkso 
.ugawoul r grlgwovbugvl gpszlrbszu;gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragvlguhwulaugkp
 szvbrklgbmvbg unkonuagklgmragasiiuaakza;gvl gbmvbgmugamkso gvnkr gvoo
fvxlrpriuliuagbmvbgqroogrlgvgamkzbgbrfug.ugpkzxkbbuljggRgoknu gbkgxkgprlu
qmulgRgqvagvgtkslxuzg.zkbmuz,gpkzgqvlbgkpgkbmuzgkzlvfulb;gvl grbg.uivfu
fugquoo:gbmuzugvzugakfugswklgqmkfgbmurzgzrimgiokbmuagquuw:gQugmvnu
abzvlxugabkzruagkpgbmugpzsxvorbtgkpgkszgcrlxagv.ksbgbmurzgkqlgwuzaklagvl 
rlgbmurzgxrpba:gcrlxagqmkgquzugxzuvbgrlgzuwsbvbrkl,gnvoksz,gvl gpkzbsluj
 ufkabmuluagnumufulbotgkwwkauagbmugovqgkpgmragirbtgbmvbgvaarxlu gbmu
ws.origfklutgpkzgbmugwkfwgkpgbmurzgws.origwovtagvl gpuabrnvoa:gmugqkso 
bmvbgbmurzgxzuvbluaagamkso g.ugauulgrlglsf.uzagkpgamrwagquooguesrwwu ,
vl gxkk gvzfruagquoogwzknr u gpkz;gvl gbmuzugragxkk gzuvaklgbkgikl ufl
Bmukwmzvabsa,gqmk,grlgmrag.kkcgklgZrimua,guabv.oramuagvgiklbzvztgkwrlrkl,
vl gfvrlbvrlagbmvbgakzbgkpguhwulaugbkg.ugbmugbzsugpzsrbgkpgv.sl vliuj
Bmutgvzug uorxmba,gavtagVzrabkbou,gbmvbgvgklotgwouvaugbmug.vauzgakzbgkp
bmugwukwou,gvl gbmvbgnvlramgpzkfgbmugfufkztgvagakklgvagbmugwukwougvzu
avbu gqrbmgbmuf,gvl gpkzgqmrimglkgauzrksagvl gys rirksagfvlgivlgmvnugvlt
uabuufjggBmragfklutgqkso ,grlgftgkwrlrkl,g.ugfsimgfkzugzktvoot,gvagfkzu
wzkprbv.ot,gysabot,gvl g szv.ot,govr gksbgrlgwkzba,gmvnula,gqvooa,gvl 
pkzbrprivbrkla;grlgasfwbsksag.sro rlxa,gimszimua,gmkawrbvoa,gikoouxua,
bmugzupkzfrlxgkpgabzuubagvl gmrxmqvta:gqmuzurlgWkwugXzuxkztgHRRRjggqroo
ouvnugvgovs v.ougfufkztgbkgpsbszugbrfua:gvl gqmuzurlgkszgEsuulgIvbmuzrlu
qkso gbkgoklxgwkabuzrbtgfvlrpuabgmuzglvbszvogor.uzvorbtgvl gfslrpriuliu,
 r gmuzgfuvlagaswwotgmuzgvppuibrkljggPkzbslugmvag klugfugvgxzuvbg uawrbu
rlgrlbuzzswbrlxgbmuglk.ougabzsibszugkpgbmugWklb-Luspgkpgkszgxzuvbgirbt,
vl g uwzrnrlxgfugkpgbmugmkwugkpgauurlxgrbgprlramu g.upkzugRg ruj

Fkzuknuz,grbgauufagbkgas.yuiba,gqmkgvzugawuibvbkzagkpgbmuaugbzrsfwma,
bmvbgbmurzgkqlgzrimuagvzuguhwkau g.upkzugbmuf,gvl gbmvbgbmutgvzu
ulbuzbvrlu gvbgbmurzgkqlguhwulau:gpkzgbmugwukwougvzugvwbgbkgwzuasfugkp
crlxa,gvagqug kgkpgkszgauznvlba,gbmvbgbmutgvzugbkgbvcugivzugbkgwzknr ugsa
voogbmrlxagluiuaavztgrlgv.sl vliu,g.sbglkbgbksimgrbgbmufauonua;gvl 
bmuzupkzugbmugUfwuzkzgXvo.v,g.urlxgwouvau gqrbmgvgfsarirvlgqmkgwovtu gbk
mrfgvbgaswwuz,givoou gpkzgmragfklut-.kh,gvl gxvnugmrfgvgmvl psogkpgizkqla
bmvbgmugbkkcgksbgkpgrb,gqrbmgbmuaugqkz a:g“Bmragraglkbgbmugws.origfklut,
.sbgftgkqlj”ggTubgrbgakgpvooagksbgbmvbgbmugwukwou,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,
mvnugzuvaklgklgbmurzgar u,gvl gbmvbgbmugwzrliuagpuu gbmurzgutuagqrbmgqmvb
bmutgmvnugluu gkpgbkgproogbmurzg.uooruaj

Or.uzvorbtgrbauopgraglkbgrlgrbagbzsugosabzugrlgvgaknuzurxlgmvl :gwzrnvbu
fulgmvnugbmuzurlgbmugfkabgzrxmb;gpkz,gbkgbvcugrbguhvibot,gvgcrlxgmva
lkbmrlxgwzkwuzotgmragkql;gmugkquagmrfauopgbkgkbmuza:gvsbmkzrbtgraglkb
xrnulgrlgpvnkszgkpgbmugfvxrabzvbu,g.sbgkpgbmugwukwou;gvgaswuzrkzgraglunuz
fv ugakgpkzgmragkqlgwzkprb,g.sbgpkzgbmugwzkprbgkpgbmugrlpuzrkz,gvl gv
wmtarirvlgpkzgbmugaricgwuzakl,gvl glkbgpkzgmrfauop:gvoogfvxrabzvit,gva
quoogvagvoogvzb,gmvagrbagul gksbgkpgrbauopgqmuzupkzugbmugbsbkzagkpgtkslx
wzrliua,gqmkgfvcugrbgbmurzg.sarluaagbkgrfwzrlbgrlgbmufgbmragnrzbsugkp
or.uzvorbt,gvl gwzuvimgbkgbmufgbkg ultglkbmrlxgvl gbkgbmrlcglkbmrlxgak
quoogawulbgvagqmvbgbmutgxrnug(vg kibzrlugbmvbgRgmvnugclkqlgrlgxzuvb
izu rbgrlgftgbrfu),gurbmuzgmvnugfkzugwvzbrisovzgzuxvz gbkgbmurzgkql
wzkprbgbmvlgbkgbmvbgkpgbmurzgfvabuz,gkzgroogsl uzabvl gbkgqmkfgbmut
awuvcjggRbgragbkkguvatgvgbmrlxgbkgrlisoivbugor.uzvorbtgklgmrfgqmkgmvagva
fsimgvagmugqroogbkgwzvibraugrbgqrbmgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgkbmuza;gvl ,gbmu
uabrfvbuglkbg.urlxgwzkwkzbrklu gbkgbmugfuvaszugkpgbmugxrpbg.sbgbkgbmu
fuvaszugkpgbmugfuvlagkpgmrfgqmkgxrnuagrb,grbgikfuagbkglkbmrlxgrlgak
frxmbtgmvl a;gbmutgprl gbmufauonuagwzk rxvog.upkzugbmutgivlg.ugzuwsbu 
or.uzvojggVl grbgrag.sbgvgorbbougzuikfful vbrkl,grlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgkbmuz
zktvognrzbsua:gvl gbmugklotgklu,gvagbmugbtzvlbg rkltarsagavr ,gbmvbgasrba
quoogqrbmgbtzvlltgrbauopjggRgamkso gzvbmuzgbuvimgmrfgbmragnuzaugkpgbmu
vlirulbgov.kszuz:

ggggg[“Bmvbgqmkunuzgqroogmvnugvgxkk gizkwgfsabgakqgqrbmgmragmvl ,gvl glkb
gggggwkszgksbgkpgbmugavicj”--Wosbvzim,gVwkbmuxfa,ggQmubmuzgbmugVlirulba
gggggquzugfkzuguhiuooulbgrlgVzfagbmvlgrlgOuvzlrlxj]

mugfsabgaivbbuzgrbgv.zkv ,gvl glkbgovtgrbgklgvgmuvwgrlgklugwoviu:gvl 
bmvb,gauurlxgmugragbkgxrnu,gkz,gbkgavtg.ubbuz,gbkgwvtgvl gzuabkzugbkgak
fvltgwukwougviikz rlxgvagbmutgmvnug uauznu ,gmugksxmbgbkg.ugvgoktvogvl 
 raizuubg rawkauzjggRpgbmugor.uzvorbtgkpgvgwzrliug.ugqrbmksbgfuvaszugkz
 raizubrkl,gRgmv gzvbmuzgmugquzugiknubksaj

Zktvognrzbsugauufagfkabgbkgiklarabgrlgysabriu;gvl gkpgvoogbmugwvzbagkp
ysabriugbmvbg.uabg ulkbuagvgcrlxgqmrimgviikfwvlruagor.uzvorbt,gpkzgbmra
bmutgmvnugwvzbrisovzotgzuauznu gbkg.ugwuzpkzfu g.tgbmufauonua,gqmuzuva
voogkbmuzgakzbagkpgysabriugbmutgzufrbgbkgbmugv frlrabzvbrklgkpgkbmuzaj
Vlgrffk uzvbug.kslbtgragvgnuztgquvcgfuvlagbkgviesrzugpkzgbmufgxkk gqroo;
rbgimuicagfkzugwukwougbmvlgrbgvooszua:

gggggggggg“Eskgrlgwoszuagsasagara,gfrlsagrlgfsobkagsbrgwkaarajjjj
ggggggggggEsr gvsbufguabgabsobrsa,gesvf,gesk gor.ulbuzgpvirva,
ggggggggggiszvzugsbgr g rsbrsagpviuzuglklgwkaara;”

ggggg[“.tgmkqgfsimgfkzugtksgsaugrbgbkgfvlt,g.tgakgfsimgouaagqroogtksg.u
gggggrlgvgivwvirbtgbkgsaugrbgbkgfvltgfkzujggVl gqmvbgxzuvbuzgpkootgivl
gggggbmuzug.ugbmvlgbkgkz uzgrbgakgbmvbgqmvbgtksgqkso gqroorlxotg k,gtks
gggggivllkbg kgoklxuzj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrjg15j]

vl grpgrbg.ugiklpuzzu gqrbmksbg sugzuawuibgkpgfuzrb,grbgwsbagmrfgksbgkp
ikslbulvliugqmkgzuiurnuagrb,gvl gragzuiurnu gslxzvirksaotjggBtzvlbagmvnu
.uulgavizrpriu gbkgbmugmvbzu gkpgbmugwukwoug.tgbmugmvl agkpgbmkaugnuzt
fulgbmutgmvnugslysabotgv nvliu ;gasimgcrl gkpgfulgvag.sppkkla,gwvl uza,
pr  ouza,gvl gasimgzvxvfspprla,gbmrlcrlxgbkgvaaszugbkgbmufauonuagbmu
wkaauaarklgkpg.uluprbagsl sotgzuiurnu ,grpgbmutgfvlrpuabgbkgmvnugmrfgrl
mvbzu gvl g ra vrlgkpgqmkfgbmutgmko gbmuf,gvl grlgbmragvaakirvbu
bmufauonuagbkgbmugikffklgys xfulbgvl gkwrlrklj

Bmugas.yuibagkpgvgwzrliuguhiuaarnugrlgxrpbagxzkqguhiuaarnugrlgvacrlx,
vl gzuxsovbugbmurzg ufvl a,glkbg.tgzuvakl,g.sbg.tguhvfwoujggQugmvnu,
auzrksaot,gnuztgkpbulgzuvaklgbkg.osamgvbgkszgkqlgrfws uliu:gqugvzu
knuz-wvr ,gviikz rlxgbkgysabriu,gqmulgbmugzuikfwulauguesvoagkszgauznriu;
pkzg kgqugkquglkbmrlxgkpglvbszvogk.orxvbrklgbkgkszgwzrliua?ggRpgmug.uvz
kszgimvzxua,gmug kuagbkkgfsim;g‘bragulksxmgbmvbgmugiklbzr.sbugbkgbmuf:
bmugknuzwosagragivoou g.uluprb,gqmrimgivllkbg.uguhvibu :gpkzgbmugnuzt
lvfugOr.uzvorbtgaksl agkpgOr.uzbtj

Rlgkszgpvamrklgrbgraglunuzg klu;gquglunuzgzuicklgqmvbgqugmvnugzuiurnu ;
qugvzugklotgpkzgbmugpsbszugor.uzvorbt;gqmuzupkzu,gbmugfkzugvgwzrliu
uhmvsabagmrfauopgrlgxrnrlx,gbmugwkkzuzgmugxzkqagrlgpzrul ajggMkqgamkso 
mugavbraptgrffk uzvbug uarzua,gbmvbgabroogrlizuvaugvagbmutgvzugpsoproou ?
Mugqmkgmvagmragbmksxmbagswklgbvcrlx,glunuzgbmrlcagkpgqmvbgmugmvagbvcul;
iknubksaluaagmvaglkbmrlxgakgwzkwuzotgvl gakgfsimgrbagkqlgvagrlxzvbrbs uj

BmuguhvfwougkpgItzsagqrooglkbg kgvfraagrlgbmragwoviu,gbkgauznugbmugcrlxa
kpgbmuaugbrfuagpkzgvgbksimabklugbkgclkqgqmubmuzgbmurzgxrpbagvzugquoogkz
roog.uabkqu ,gvl gbkgauugmkqgfsimg.ubbuzgbmvbgufwuzkzgiklpuzzu gbmufgbmvl
bmutg k,g.tgqmrimgfuvlagbmutgvzugzu siu gbkg.kzzkqgkpgslclkqlgas.yuiba,
vl gzvbmuzgkpgbmufgqmkfgbmutgmvnugqzklxu gbmvlgkpgbmufgklgqmkfgbmutgmvnu
iklpuzzu gbmurzg.uluprba,gvl gakgzuiurnugvr agqmuzurlgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgkp
xzvbsrbksag.sbgbmuglvfujggIzkuasagzuwzkvimu gmrfgqrbmgmrag.kslbt,gvl 
ivabgswgbkgmkqgfsimgmragbzuvaszugqkso gvfkslbgrpgmugmv g.uulgvgorbbou
iokauz-mvl u jggMugmv gvgfrl gbkgysabrptgmragor.uzvorbt,gvl gbmuzupkzu
aulbg uawvbimuagrlbkgvoogwvzbagbkgbmugxzvl uuagkpgmrag kfrlrklagqmkfgmu
mv gwvzbrisovzotgv nvliu ,gulbzuvbrlxgunuztgklugkpgbmufgbkgaswwotgmrf
qrbmgvagfsimgfklutgvagbmutgikso ,gpkzgvgwzuaarlxgkiivarkl,gvl gbkgaul 
mrfgwvzbrisovzagkpgqmvbguvimgikso gv nvliujggQmulgvoogbmuaugvlaquzagquzu
.zksxmbgbkgmrf,gunuztgklugkpgmragpzrul a,glkbgbmrlcrlxgrbgulksxmg.vzuot
bkgkppuzgmrfgakgfsimgvagmugmv gzuiurnu gpzkfgmrag.kslbt,gvl gv  rlxgbkgrb
vgxzuvbg uvogkpgmragkql,grbgvwwuvzu gbmvbgbmugasfgvfkslbu gbkgvgxzuvb
 uvogfkzugbmvlgIzkuasa’gzuicklrlxjggQmuzuswklgItzsa:g“Rgvfglkb,”gavr gmu,
“ouaagrlgoknugqrbmgzrimuagbmvlgkbmuzgwzrliua,g.sbgzvbmuzgvg.ubbuz
msa.vl ;gtksgauugqrbmgmkqgafvoogvgnulbszugRgmvnugviesrzu gbmugrluabrfv.ou
bzuvaszugkpgakgfvltgpzrul a,gvl gmkqgfsimgfkzugpvrbmpsogbzuvaszuzagbmut
vzugbkgfugbmvlgfuziulvztgfulgqrbmksbgk.orxvbrkl,gqrbmksbgvppuibrkl;gvl 
ftgfklutg.ubbuzgovr gswgbmvlgrlgimuaba,g.zrlxrlxgswklgfugbmugmvbzu ,
ulnt,gvl giklbufwbgkpgkbmuzgwzrliuaj”

Bmugufwuzkzaguhisau gbmugaswuzposrbtgkpgbmurzgwovtagvl gws.origawuibvioua
.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmurzgvsbmkzrbtgrlgakfugakzbg(vbgouvabgrlgksbqvz 
vwwuvzvliu)g uwul u gswklgbmugqroogkpgbmugwukwougkpgZkfu,gqmk,gbrfugksb
kpgfrl ,gmv g.uulgviisabkfu gbkg.ugulbuzbvrlu gvl givzuaau gqrbmgasim
amkqagvl guhiuaauajgg.sbgbmutgquzugwzrnvbugirbrdula,gqmkgmv glkszramu 
bmragisabkfgbkgxzvbrptgbmurzgpuookq-irbrdulagvl gikfwvlrklag(vl gimrupot
ksbgkpgbmurzgkqlgwszaua)g.tgasimgwzkpsarklgvl gfvxlrpriuliugrbgmv gesrbu
vlkbmuzgbvabugqmulgbmugfvabuzagivfugbkgrfrbvbugrb:

gggggggggg“Wuislrvzsfgbzvlaovbrkgvgysabrag kfrlragv gvorulka
gggggggggglklg u.ubgor.uzvoragnr uzrj”

ggggg[“Bmugbzvlapuzzrlxgkpgfklutgpzkfgbmugzrxmbgkqluzagbkgabzvlxuza
gggggksxmbglkbgbkgmvnugbmugbrbougkpgor.uzvorbtj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg14j]

Wmrorw,gauurlxgbmvbgmragaklgqulbgv.ksbg.tgwzuaulbagbkgxvrlgbmugvppuibrkl
kpgbmugFviu klrvla,gzuwzrfvl u gmrfgrlgvgoubbuzgvpbuzgbmragfvlluz:g“Qmvb!
mvabgbmksgvgfrl gbmvbgbmtgas.yuibagamvoogokkcgswklgbmuugvagbmurz
ivam-cuuwuzgvl glkbgvagbmurzgcrlx?ggQrobgbmksgbvfwuzgqrbmgbmufgbkgqrl
bmurzgvppuibrkla?gg kgrb,gbmul,g.tgbmug.uluprbagkpgbmtgnrzbsu,gvl glkbg.t
bmkaugkpgbmtgimuabj”ggVl gtubgrbgqva,g ks.bouaa,gvgprlugbmrlxgbkg.zrlx
vl gwovlbgqrbmrlgbmugvfwmrbmuvbzugvgxzuvbglsf.uzgkpgnvabgbzuua,gqrbmgvoo
bmurzg.zvlimuagrlgbmurzgpsoognuz szu,gzuwzuaulbrlxgvgxzuvbgamv tgpkzuab,
 rawkau grlguhiuooulbgkz uz;gvl ,gbmugprzabg vt,gbkgbmzkqgrlbkgrbgv
bmksavl gkabzrimuagvl gvgbmksavl gabvxa,gvgbmksavl g.kvza,gvl gvgbmksavl 
pvookq- uuz,gbkg.ugcroou gvl g rawkau gkpg.tgbmugwukwou:gbmugluhbg vt,gbk
ivsaugvgmsl zu gxzuvbgorkla,gvgmsl zu goukwvz a,gvl gbmzuugmsl zu g.uvza
bkg.ugcroou grlgmragwzuauliu;gvl gpkzgbmugbmrz g vt,gbkgfvcugbmzuu
msl zu gwvrzgkpgxov rvbkzagprxmbgrbgksbgbkgbmugovab,gvagbmugUfwuzkz
Wzk.sag r jggRbgqvagvoakgnuztgprlugbkgauugbmkaugnvabgvfwmrbmuvbzua,gvoo
pviu gqrbmgfvz.ougqrbmksb,giszrksaotgqzksxmbgqrbmgprxszuagvl gabvbsua,
vl gqrbmrlgxorbbuzrlxgqrbmgzvzugulzrimfulba:

ggggggggggggggg“.vobmusagul!gxuffra,gulgroorbvgwkzbrisagvszk:”

ggggg[“Vg.uobgxorbbuzrlxgqrbmgyuquoa,gvl gvgwkzbrikgknuzovr gqrbmgxko j”
gggggg--Ivowszlrsa,gUiokxj,gnrrjg47jggVg.vobmusagqvagvgamkso uz-.uobgkz
ggggg.vo zrij]

voogbmugar uagkpgbmragnvabgawviugproou gvl gulnrzklu ,gpzkfgbmug.kbbkfgbk
bmugbkw,gqrbmgbmzuugkzgpkszgaikzugzkqagkpgauvba,gvoogkpgfvz.ougvoak,gvl 
iknuzu gqrbmgisamrkla:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Uhuvb,grlesrb,
ggggggggggggggggggggArgws kzguab,gubg ugwsonrlkgaszxvbguesuabzr,
ggggggggggggggggggggIsysagzuagouxrglklgaspprirb;”

ggggg[“Oubgmrfgxkgksb,gmugavr ,grpgmugmvagvltgaulaugkpgamvfu,gvl gzrau
gggggpzkfgbmuguesuabzrvlgisamrkl,gqmkauguabvbug kuaglkbgavbraptgbmugovqj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,grrrjg153jggBmugUesrbuagquzugzuesrzu gbkgwkaauaagvgpkzbslu
gggggkpg400gauabuzbrv,gvl gbmutgavbgklgbmugprzabgpkszbuulgzkqag.umrl gbmu
gggggkzimuabzvj]

qmuzugvgmsl zu gbmksavl gfulgfrxmbgarbgvbgbmurzguvau:gvl ,gbmugwoviu
.uokq,gqmuzugbmugxvfuagquzugwovtu ,gbkgfvcugrb,g.tgvzb,gprzabgkwulgvl 
iouvnugrlgimvafa,gzuwzuaulbrlxgivnuagbmvbgnkfrbu gksbgbmug.uvabag uarxlu 
pkzgbmugawuibviou;gvl gbmul,gauikl ot,gbkg.ugknuzpokqu g.tgvg uuwgauv,
psoogkpgauvgfklabuza,gvl gov ulgqrbmgamrwagkpgqvz,gbkgzuwzuaulbgvglvnvo
.vbbou;gvl ,gbmrz ot,gbkgfvcugrbg ztgvl gunulgvxvrlgpkzgbmugikf.vbgkpgbmu
xov rvbkza;gvl ,gpkzgbmugpkszbmgaiulu,gbkgmvnugrbgabzkqlgqrbmgnuzfrorkl
xzvrlgvl gabkzvh,--[Vgzuarlksagxsfj]--rlabuv gkpgavl ,gbmuzugbkgfvcugv
akouflgpuvabgpkzgvoogbmvbgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgwukwou:gbmugovabgvibgkpgklu
klotg vt:

gggggggggggggg“Eskbruaglkag uaiul ulbragvzulvu
gggggggggggggggNr rfsagrlgwvzbua,gzswbvesugnkzvxrlugbuzzvu
gggggggggggggggUfuzaraaugpuzva,gubgura ufgavuwugovbu.zra
gggggggggggggggVszuvgisfgizkiukgizunuzslbgvz.sbvgor.zk!jjjj
gggggggggggggggLuigakosfglk.ragaronuabzrvgiuzluzugfklabzv
gggggggggggggggIklbrxrb;gvueskzukaguxkgisfgiuzbvlbr.sagszara
gggggggggggggggAwuibvnrgnrbsoka,gubgueskzsfglkfrlug rxlsf,
gggggggggggggggAulg upkzfugwuisa,gesk grlgrookglvairbszgvflrjjjj”

ggggg[“Mkqgkpbulgmvnugqugauulgbmugabvxugkpgbmugbmuvbzug uaiul gvl gwvzb
gggggvasl uz,gvl gpzkfgvgimvafgrlgbmuguvzbmgqro g.uvabagufuzxu,gvl gbmul
gggggwzuaulbotgxrnug.rzbmgbkgvgxzknugkpgxro u gbzuua,gbmvbgwsbgpkzbm
ggggg.okaakfagkpgulvfuoou gpokquzajggLkzgtubgkpgatonvlgfvznuoagvoklugmv 
gggggqugarxmb:gRgavqgauv-ivonuagprxmbgqrbmg.uvza,gvl gvg upkzfu gakzbgkp
gggggivbbou,gqugfrxmbgivoogauv-mkzauaj”--Ivowszlrsa,gUiokxj,gnrrjg64j]

Akfubrfuagbmutgfv ugvgmrxmgfkslbvrlgv nvliugrbauop,giknuzu gqrbm
pzsrb-bzuuagvl gkbmuzgouvptgbzuua,gaul rlxg kqlgzrnsoubagkpgqvbuzgpzkf
bmugbkw,gvagpzkfgbmugfksbmgkpgvgpkslbvrl:gkbmuzqmroua,gvgxzuvbgamrwgqva
auulgbkgikfugzkoorlxgrl,gqmrimgkwulu gvl g rnr u gkpgrbauop,gvl gvpbuz
mvnrlxg raxkzxu gpzkfgbmugmko gpkszgkzgprnugmsl zu g.uvabagpkzgprxmb,
iokau gvxvrl,gvl gnvlramu gqrbmksbgmuowjggVbgkbmuzgbrfua,gpzkfgbmugpokkz
kpgbmragwoviu,gbmutgfv ugawksbagkpgwuzpsfu gqvbuzg vzbgbmurzgabzuvfa
swqvz ,gvl gakgmrxmgvagbkgawzrlcougvoogbmvbgrlprlrbugfsobrbs ujggBk
 upul gbmufauonuagpzkfgbmugrlyszruagkpgbmugquvbmuz,gbmutgmv gbmvbgnvab
woviugklugqmrougiknuzu gknuzgqrbmgwszwougiszbvrlagkpgluu ouqkzc,gvl 
.t-vl -.tgqrbmgarocgkpgklugkzgvlkbmuzgikoksz,gqmrimgbmutg zuqgkppgkz
klgrlgvgfkfulb,gvagbmutgmv gvgfrl :

gggggggggggggg“Esvfnraglklgfk rikgivouvlbgawuibvisovgakou,
gggggggggggggggNuovgzu sislbsz,gisfgnulrbgMuzfkxuluaj”

ggggg[“Bmugiszbvrla,gbmksxmgbmugaslgamkso gaikzimgbmugawuibvbkza,gvzu
ggggg zvqlgrl,gqmulgMuzfkxuluagvwwuvzaj”-Fvzbrvo,ghrrjgg29,g15jggFj
gggggBrxuoorsagMuzfkxulua,gqmkfgMkzviugvl gkbmuzagmvnugavbrzrau jggKlu
gggggu rbkzgivooagmrfg“vglkbu gbmrup,”gvlkbmuz:g“Mugqvagvgorbuzvzt
gggggvfvbuszgkpglkgv.rorbt,gqmkguhwzuaau gmragizrbrivogkwrlrklagqrbmgbkk
gggggxzuvbgvgpzuu kfgbkgwouvaugbmugwkubagkpgmrag vtj”gg jQj]

Bmuglubqkzcgvoakgbmvbgqvagaubg.upkzugbmugwukwougbkg upul gbmufgpzkfgbmu
nrkouliugkpgbmuaugbszlu -ksbg.uvabagqvagqknulgkpgxko :

ggggggggggggggggggg“Vszkgeskesugbkzbagzupsoxulb
ggggggggggggggggggggZubrvj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bmugqknulglubagvzugzupsoxulbgqrbmgxko j”
gggggggggggggggg--Ivowszlrsa,gs.rgaswzvj]

Rpgbmuzug.ugvltbmrlxguhisav.ougrlgasimguhiuaauagvagbmuau,grbgragqmuzugbmu
lknuobtgvl grlnulbrklgizuvbugfkzugqkl uzgbmvlgbmuguhwulau;gunulgrlgbmuau
nvlrbruagqug raiknuzgmkqgpuzbrougbmkaugvxuagquzugrlgkbmuzgcrl gkpgqrba
bmvlgbmuaugkpgkszajggRbgragqrbmgbmragakzbgkpgpuzbrorbt,gvagqrbmgvoogkbmuz
wzk sibagkpglvbszu:glkbgbmvbgamugbmuzugvl gbmulgufwoktu gmuzgsbfkab
pkziu:gqug kglkbgxk;gqugzvbmuzgzslgswgvl g kql,gvl gqmrzogbmragqvtgvl 
bmvb;gqugbszlg.vicgbmugqvtgqugivfujggRgvfgvpzvr gkszgclkqou xugragquvcgrl
voogaulaua;gquglurbmuzgauugpvzgpkzqvz glkzgpvzg.vicqvz ;gksz
sl uzabvl rlxgikfwzumul agorbbou,gvl gornuag.sbgvgorbbougqmrou;g‘bra
amkzbg.kbmgrlguhbulbgkpgbrfugvl guhbulbgkpgfvbbuz:

ggggggggggggggggggg“NrhuzugpkzbuagvlbugVxvfuflklv
ggggggggggggggggggggFspbr,gau gkfluagrooviztfv.roua
ggggggggggggggggggggSzxulbsz,grxlkbresugoklxa
ggggggggggggggggggggLkibuj”

ggggg[gFvltg.zvnugfulgornu g.upkzugVxvfuflkl,g.sbgvoogvzugwzuaau g.tgbmu
gggggoklxglrxmbgslfkszlu gvl gslclkqlj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjg9,g25j]

gggggggggggggg“Ubgaswzvg.uoosfgBmu.vlsfgubgpsluzvgBzkyvu
gggggggggggggggLklgvorvagvorrgeskesugzuagiuirluzugwkubvu?”

ggggg[“Qmtg.upkzugbmugBmu.vlgqvzgvl gbmug uabzsibrklgkpgBzkt,gmvnuglkb
gggggkbmuzgwkubagaslxgkbmuzgunulba?”--Osizubrsa,gnjg327jggFklbvrxlugmuzu
ggggg rnuzbagmrfauopgfgxrnrlxgOsizubrsa’gqkz agvgiklabzsibrklg rzuibot
gggggiklbzvztgbkgqmvbgbmutg.uvzgrlgbmugwkufjggOsizubrsagwsbagbmu
gggggesuabrkl,gQmtgrpgbmuguvzbmgmv guhrabu gpzkfgvoogubuzlrbt,gbmuzugmv 
ggggglkbg.uulgwkuba,g.upkzugbmugBmu.vlgqvz,gbkgarlxgful’aguhwokrbaj
ggggg--Ikabuj]

Vl gbmuglvzzvbrnugkpgAkokl,gkpgqmvbgmugmv gouvzlu gpzkfgbmugUxtwbrvl
wzruaba,gbksimrlxgbmugoklxgorpugkpgbmurzgabvbu,gvl gbmurzgfvlluzgkp
ouvzlrlxgvl gwzuauznrlxgpkzurxlgmrabkzrua,graglkb,gfubmrlca,gvgbuabrfklt
bkg.ugzupsau grlgbmragiklar uzvbrkl:

ggggg“Argrlbuzfrlvbvfgrlgkfluagwvzbuagfvxlrbs rlufgzuxrklsfgnr uzufsagub
gggggbufwkzsf,grlgesvfgaugrlyrirulagvlrfsagubgrlbul ula,grbvgovbu
gggggoklxuesugwuzuxzrlvbsz,gsbglsoovfgkzvfgsobrfrgnr uvb,grlgesvgwkaarb
gggggrlarabuzu:grlgmvuigrffularbvbugjggjggjggrlprlrbvgnragrllsfuzv.rorsf
gggggvwwvzuzubgpkfkzsfj”

ggggg[“Ikso gqugauugklgvoogwvzbagbmugslorfrbu gfvxlrbs ugkpgzuxrklagvl 
gggggkpgbrfua,gswklgqmrimgbmugfrl g.urlxgrlbulb,gikso gqvl uzgakgpvzgvl 
gggggqr u,gbmvbglkgorfrbgragbkg.ugauul,grlgqmrimgrbgivlg.ksl grbagutu,gqu
gggggamkso ,grlgbmvbgrlprlrbugrffularbt,g raiknuzgvlgrlprlrbugpkziugkp
gggggrllsfuzv.ougvbkfaj”ggMuzugvoakgFklbvrxlugwsbagvgaulaugesrbu
ggggg rppuzulbgpzkfgqmvbgbmugqkz ag.uvzgrlgbmugkzrxrlvo;g.sbgbmu
gggggvwworivbrklgmugfvcuagkpgbmufgragakgmvwwtgbmvbgklugqkso g uiovzugbmut
gggggquzugvibsvootgwsbgbkxubmuzgklotgbkguhwzuaagmragkqlgaulbrfulbajgg“Ub
gggggbufwkzsf”gragvlgv  rbrklg.tgFklbvrxluj--Ikabuj]

Bmksxmgvoogbmvbgmvagvzzrnu ,g.tgzuwkzb,gkpgkszgclkqou xugkpgbrfuagwvab
amkso g.ugbzsu,gvl gclkqlg.tgakfugklugwuzakl,grbgqkso g.ugouaagbmvl
lkbmrlxgrlgikfwvzraklgkpgqmvbgragslclkqljggVl gkpgbmragavfugrfvxugkpgbmu
qkzo ,gqmrimgxor uagvqvtgqmroabgqugornugswklgrb,gmkqgqzubimu gvl gorfrbu 
ragbmugclkqou xugkpgbmugfkabgiszrksa;glkbgklotgkpgwvzbrisovzgunulba,
qmrimgpkzbslugkpbulgzul uzaguhufwovztgvl gkpgxzuvbgikliuzl,g.sbgkpgbmu
abvbugkpgxzuvbgxknuzlfulbagvl glvbrkla,gvgmsl zu gfkzuguaivwugsagbmvl
unuzgikfugbkgkszgclkqou xujggQugfvcugvgfrxmbtg.sarluaagkpgbmugrlnulbrkl
kpgvzbroouztgvl gwzrlbrlx,gqmrimgkbmuzgfulgvbgbmugkbmuzgul gkpgbmugqkzo ,
rlgImrlv,gmv gvgbmksavl gtuvzagvxkjgg r gqug.sbgauugvagfsimgkpgbmugqkzo 
vagqug kglkbgauu,gqugamkso gwuziurnu,gqugfvtgquoog.uorunu,gvgwuzwubsvo
fsobrworivbrklgvl gnriraarbs ugkpgpkzfajggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgarlxougvl 
zvzugrlgzuawuibgkpglvbszu,g.sbgrlgzuawuibgkpgkszgclkqou xu,gqmrimgragv
qzubimu gpksl vbrklgqmuzuklgbkgxzksl gkszgzsoua,gvl gbmvbgzuwzuaulbagbk
sagvgnuztgpvoaugrfvxugkpgbmrlxajggVagquglkqv vtagnvrlotgiklios ugbmu
 uioularklgvl g uizuwrbs ugkpgbmugqkzo ,g.tgbmugvzxsfulbagquguhbzvibgpzkf
kszgkqlgquvcluaagvl g uivt:

gggggggggg“Yvfesugv ukguabgvppuibvgvubvaguppkubgvesugbuoosa;”

gggggggggg[“Kszgvxugragpuu.ou,gvl gbmuguvzbmgouaagpuzbrouj”
ggggggggggg--Osizubrsa,grrjg1151j]

akg r gmugnvrlotgiklios ugvagbkgrbag.rzbmgvl gtksbm,g.tgbmugnrxkszgmu
k.auznu grlgbmugqrbagkpgmragbrfu,gv.ksl rlxgrlglknuobruagvl gbmu
rlnulbrklgkpg rnuzagvzba:

ggggggggg“Nuzsf,gsbgkwrlkz,gmv.ubglknrbvbufgasffv,gzuiulaesu
ggggggggggLvbszvguabgfsl r,gluesugwzr ufguhkz rvgikuwrb
ggggggggggEsvzugubrvfgesvu vfglsligvzbuaguhwkorslbsz,
ggggggggggLsligubrvfgvsxuaislb;glsligv  rbvglvnrxrragaslb
ggggggggggFsobvj”

ggggg[“.sb,gvagRgvfgkpgkwrlrkl,gbmugqmkougkpgbmugqkzo gragkpgzuiulb
gggggkzrxrl,glkzgmv grbagikffuliufulbgrlgzufkbugbrfua;gqmuzupkzugrbgra
gggggbmvbgakfugvzbagvzugabroog.urlxgzuprlu ,gvl gakfugysabgklgbmu
gggggrlizuvau;gvbgwzuaulbgfvltgv  rbrklagvzug.urlxgfv ugbkgamrwwrlxj”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,gnjg331j]

Kszgqkzo gmvagovbuotg raiknuzu gvlkbmuzg(vl gqmkgqroogvaaszugsagbmvbgrb
ragbmugovabgkpgrbag.zkbmuza,garliugbmug vufkla,gbmugAt.roa,gvl gqu
kszauonuagmvnug.uulgrxlkzvlbgkpgbmragbrooglkq?),gvagovzxu,gquoo-wukwou ,
vl gpzsrbpsogvagbmragqmuzuklgqugornugvl gtubgakgzvqgvl gimro ram,gbmvbgqu
vzugabroogbuvimrlxgrbgrb’agvg.gI:g‘braglkbgv.knugprpbtgtuvzagarliugrb
cluqglurbmuzgoubbuza,gqurxmba,gfuvaszua,gnuabfulba,gikzl,glkzgnrlua:grb
qvagbmulgesrbuglvcu grlgbmugfkbmuz’agovw,gvl gklotgornu gswklgqmvbgamu
xvnugrbjggRpgqugzrxmbotgiklios ugkpgkszgul ,gvl gbmragwkubgkpgbmu
tksbmpsoluaagkpgbmvbgvxugkpgmra,gbmvbgkbmuzgqkzo gqroogklotgulbuzgrlbk
bmugorxmbgqmulgbmragkpgkszagamvoogfvcugrbaguhrb;gbmugslrnuzaugqroogpvoo
rlbkgwvzvotara;gklugfuf.uzgqroog.ugsauouaa,gbmugkbmuzgrlgnrxkszjggRgvf
nuztgfsimgvpzvr gbmvbgqugmvnugxzuvbotgwzuirwrbvbu grbag uioularklgvl 
zsrlg.tgkszgiklbvxrkl;gvl gbmvbgqugmvnugako grbgkwrlrklagvl gkszgvzbagvb
vgnuztg uvzgzvbujggRbgqvagvlgrlpvlbgqkzo ,gvl gtubgqugmvnuglkbgqmrwwu 
vl gas.yuibu grbgbkgkszg rairworlug.tgbmugv nvlbvxugkpgkszglvbszvogqkzbm
vl gpkziu,glurbmuzgmvnugqugqklgrbg.tgkszgysabriugvl gxkk luaa,glkz
as. su grbg.tgkszgfvxlvlrfrbtjggFkabgkpgbmurzgvlaquza,gvl gbmu
luxkbrvbrklagqugmvnugmv gqrbmgbmuf,gqrbluaagbmvbgbmutgquzuglkbmrlxg.umrl 
sagrlgwuzbrlulitgvl giouvzluaagkpglvbszvogsl uzabvl rlxjggBmugvabklramrlx
fvxlrpriuliugkpgbmugirbruagkpgIsaikgvl gFuhrik,gvl ,gvfklxabgfvltgkbmuz
bmrlxa,gbmugxvz ulgkpgbmugcrlx,gqmuzugvoogbmugbzuua,gpzsrba,gvl gwovlba,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugkz uzgvl gabvbszugbmutgmvnugrlgvgxvz ul,gquzu
uhiuooulbotgpkzfu grlgxko ;gva,grlgmragiv.rlub,gquzugvoogbmugvlrfvoag.zu 
swklgmragbuzzrbkztgvl grlgrbagauva;gvl gbmug.uvsbtgkpgbmurzgfvlspvibszua,
rlgyuquoa,gpuvbmuza,gikbbkl,gvl gwvrlbrlx,gxvnugvfwougwzkkpgbmvbgbmut
quzugvagorbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgsagrlgrl sabztjgg.sbgvagbkgqmvbgikliuzla
 unkbrkl,gk.auznvliugkpgbmugovqa,gxkk luaa,gor.uzvorbt,goktvobt,gvl 
wovrlg uvorlx,grbgqvagkpgsaugbkgsagbmvbgqugmv glkbgakgfsimgvagbmut;gpkz
bmutgmvnugokab,gako ,gvl g.ubzvtu gbmufauonuag.tgbmragv nvlbvxugknuzgsaj

Vagbkg.ko luaagvl gikszvxu,gabv.rorbt,giklabvlitgvxvrlabgwvrl,gmslxuz,
vl g uvbm,gRgamkso glkbgpuvzgbkgkwwkaugbmuguhvfwouagRgprl gvfklxabgbmuf
bkgbmugfkabgpvfksaguhvfwouagkpguo uzgbrfuagbmvbgqugprl grlgkszgzuikz agkl
bmragar ugkpgbmugqkzo jggPvzgvagbkgbmkaugqmkgas. su gbmuf,gbvcug.sbgvqvt
bmugbzricagvl gvzbrpriuagbmutgwzvibrau gbkgxsoogbmuf,gvl gbmugysab
vabklramfulbgrbgqvagbkgbmkauglvbrklagbkgauugakgas  ulgvl gsluhwuibu gvl
vzzrnvogkpgfulgqrbmg.uvz a,g rppuzrlxgrlgovlxsvxu,gzuorxrkl,gamvwu,gvl 
ikslbulvliu,gpzkfgakgzufkbugvgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo ,gvl gqmuzugbmutgmv glunuz
muvz gbmuzugqvagvltgmv.rbvbrkl,gfkslbu gswklgxzuvbgslclkqlgfklabuza,
vxvrlabgbmkaugqmkgmv glkbgklotglunuzgauulgvgmkzau,g.sbgmv glunuzgauulgvlt
kbmuzg.uvabgbzvrlu gswgbkgivzztgvgfvlgkzgvltgkbmuzgokv rlx;gamuoou grlgv
mvz gvl gamrlrlxgacrl,gqrbmgvgisbbrlxgvl gxorbbuzrlxgquvwklgrlgmragmvl ,
vxvrlabgbmuf,gqmk,gksbgkpgqkl uzgvbgbmug.zrxmbluaagkpgvgokkcrlxgxovaagkz
vgclrpu,gqkso guhimvlxugxzuvbgbzuvaszuagkpgxko gvl gwuvzo;gvl gqmkgmv 
lurbmuzgclkqou xu,glkzgfvbbuzgqrbmgqmrim,gvbgouraszu,gbmutgikso 
wulubzvbugkszgabuuo:gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmugorxmblrlxgvl gbmsl uzgkp
kszgivllklgvl gmvzesu.saua,gulksxmgbkgpzrxmbulgIvuavzgmrfauop,grp
aszwzrau ,gqrbmgakgorbbouguhwuzruliu,gvxvrlabgwukwouglvcu ,guhiuwbgqmuzu
bmugrlnulbrklgkpgvgorbbougesrobu gikbbklgqvagrlgsau,gqrbmksbgkbmuzgvzfa,
vbgbmugfkab,gbmvlg.kqa,gabklua,gabvnua,gvl g.sicouzagkpgqkk ;gwukwou
aszwzrau gsl uzgikokszgkpgpzrul amrwgvl gxkk gpvrbm,g.tgbmugiszrkarbtgkp
auurlxgabzvlxugvl gslclkqlgbmrlxa;gbvcug.sbgvqvt,gRgavt,gbmrag rawvzrbt
pzkfgbmugiklesuzkza,gvl gtksgbvcugvqvtgvoogbmugkiivarklgkpgakgfvlt
nribkzruajggQmulgRgokkcgswklgbmvbgrlgnrlir.ougvz kszgqmuzuqrbmgakgfvlt
bmksavl agkpgful,gqkful,gvl gimro zulgakgkpbulgwzuaulbu gvl gbmzuq
bmufauonuagrlbkgrlunrbv.oug vlxuzagpkzgbmug upuliugkpgbmurzgxk agvl 
or.uzbrua;gbmvbgxuluzksagk.abrlvitgbkgasppuzgvooguhbzufrbruagvl 
 rpprisobrua,gvl g uvbmgrbauop,gzvbmuzgbmvlgas.frbgbkgbmug kfrlrklgkp
bmkaug.tgqmkfgbmutgmv g.uulgakgamvfupsootgv.sau ;gvl gakfugkpgbmuf
imkkarlxgbkg rugkpgmslxuzgvl gpvabrlx,g.urlxgwzrakluza,gzvbmuzgbmvlgbk
viiuwbgkpglkszramfulbgpzkfgbmugmvl agkpgbmurzgakg.vauotgnribkzrksa
ulufrua:gRgauu,gbmvbgqmkunuzgqkso gmvnugvbbvicu gbmufgswklguesvogbuzfagkp
vzfa,guhwuzruliu,gvl glsf.uz,gqkso gmvnugmv gvgmvz ,gvl ,gwuzv nulbszu,
vgmvz uzgxvfugbkgwovtgbmvlgrlgvltgkbmuzgqvzgqugmvnugauulj

Qmtg r glkbgakglk.ougvgiklesuabgpvoogsl uzgVouhvl uz,gkzgbmugvlirulb
Xzuucagvl gZkfvla;gvl gakgxzuvbgvgzunkosbrklgvl gfsbvbrklgkpgakgfvlt
ufwrzuagvl glvbrkla,gpvoogrlbkgmvl agbmvbgqkso gmvnugxulbotgounuoou ,
zkkbu gsw,gvl gfv ugwovrlgvl gafkkbmgqmvbunuzgqvagzksxmgvl gavnvxu
vfklxabgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgqkso gmvnugimuzramu gvl gwzkwvxvbu gbmugxkk gauu a
bmvbglvbszugmv gbmuzugwzk siu ;gfrhrlxglkbgklotgqrbmgbmugisobszugkpgovl 
vl gbmugkzlvfulbgkpgirbrua,gbmugvzbagkpgbmragwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo ,grlgqmvb
qvagluiuaavzt,g.sbgvoakgbmugXzuucgvl gZkfvlgnrzbsua,gqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgquzu
kzrxrlvogkpgbmugikslbzt?ggQmvbgvgzuwvzvbrklgmv grbg.uulgbkgbmuf,gvl gqmvb
vgxuluzvogxkk gbkgbmugqmkougqkzo ,gmv gkszgprzabguhvfwouagvl g uwkzbfulba
rlgbmkaugwvzbagvooszu gbmkaugwukwougbkgbmugv frzvbrklgvl grfrbvbrklgkp
nrzbsu,gvl gmv g.uxkbbulg.ubqrhbgbmufgvl gsagvgpzvbuzlvogakirubtgvl 
rlbuoorxuliu?ggMkqguvatgmv grbg.uulgbkgmvnugfv ugv nvlbvxugkpgaksoagak
rllkiulb,gvl gakguvxuzgbkgouvzl,gouvnrlx,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,glvbszvootgak
xkk grliorlvbrklag.upkzu?ggQmuzuva,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gqugmvnugbvcul
v nvlbvxugkpgbmurzgrxlkzvliugvl grluhwuzruliu,gqrbmgxzuvbuzguvaugbk
rliorlugbmufgbkgbzuvimuzt,goshszt,gvnvzriu,gvl gbkqvz agvoogakzbagkp
rlmsfvlrbtgvl gizsuobt,g.tgbmugwvbbuzlgvl guhvfwougkpgkszgfvlluzajggQmk
unuzgulmvliu gbmugwzriugkpgfuzimvl raugvbgasimgvgzvbu?ggAkgfvltgirbrua
ounuoou gqrbmgbmugxzksl ,gakgfvltglvbrklaguhbuzfrlvbu ,gakgfvltgfroorkla
kpgwukwougpvooulg.tgbmugu xugkpgbmugaqkz ,gvl gbmugzrimuabgvl gfkab
.uvsbrpsogwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo gbszlu gswar ug kql,gpkzgbmugbzvpprigkpgwuvzo
vl gwuwwuz?ggFuimvlrignribkzrua!ggLunuzg r gvf.rbrkl,glunuzg r gws.ori
vlrfkarbrua,gulxvxugfulgvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuzgrlgasimgfrauzv.ou
mkabrorbrua,grlgasimgfrauzv.ougivovfrbruaj

IuzbvrlgAwvlrvz a,gikvabrlxgbmugauvgrlgesuabgkpgbmurzgfrlua,govl u grlgv
pzsrbpsogvl gwouvavlbgvl gnuztgquoogwukwou gikslbzt,gvl gbmuzugfv ugbk
bmugrlmv.rbvlbagbmurzgviisabkfu gwzkpuaarkla:g“bmvbgbmutgquzugwuviuv.ou
ful,gqmkgquzugikfugpzkfgvgnuztgzufkbugikslbzt,gvl gaulbgklgbmug.umvopgkp
bmugCrlxgkpgIvabrou,gbmugxzuvbuabgwzrliugkpgbmugmv.rbv.ougqkzo ,gbkgqmkf
bmugWkwu,gXk ’agnriuxuzulbgswklguvzbm,gmv gxrnulgbmugwzrlirwvorbtgkpgvoo
bmugRl rua;gbmvbgrpgbmutgqkso g.uikfugbzr.sbvzruagbkgmrf,gbmutgamkso g.u
nuztgxulbotgvl gikszbuksaotgsau ”;gvbgbmugavfugbrfugzuesrzrlxgkpgbmuf
nribsvoagpkzgbmurzglkszramfulb,gvl gxko gqmuzukpgbkgfvcugakfugwzubul u 
fu rirlu;gaubbrlxgpkzbm,gfkzuknuz,gbmug.uorupgrlgklugklotgXk ,gvl gbmu
bzsbmgkpgkszgzuorxrkl,gqmrimgbmutgv nrau gbmufgbkguf.zviu,gqmuzuslbkgbmut
voakgv  u gakfugbmzuvbajggBkgqmrimgbmutgzuiurnu gbmragvlaquz:g“Bmvbgvagbk
bmurzg.urlxgwuviuv.ou,gbmutg r glkbgauufgbkg.ugasim,grpgbmutgquzugakj
Vagbkgbmurzgcrlx,garliugmugqvagpvrlgbkg.ux,gmugfsabg.ugluiuaarbksagvl 
wkkz;gvl gmugqmkgmv gfv ugmrfgbmragxrpb,gfsabg.ugvgfvlgqmkgoknu 
 raaularkl,gbkgxrnugbmvbgbkgvlkbmuzgqmrimgqvaglklugkpgmragkql,gbkg.zrlx
rbgrlbkg rawsbugvxvrlabgbmugvlirulbgwkaauaakzajggVagbkgnribsvoa,gbmut
qkso gaswwotgbmuf;gbmvbgkpgxko gbmutgmv gorbbou;grbg.urlxgvgbmrlxgbmut
mv grlgnuztgafvooguabuuf,gvagkpglkgsaugbkgbmugauznriugkpgorpu,gqmuzuva
bmurzgklotgivzugqvagbkgwvaagrbgknuzgmvwwrotgvl gwouvavlbot:g.sbgbmvbgqmvb
bmutgikso gprl guhiuwbrlxgqmvbgqvagufwoktu grlgbmugauznriugkpgbmurzgxk a,
bmutgfrxmbgpzuuotgbvcujggVagbkgklugklotgXk ,gbmugwzkwkarbrklgmv gwouvau 
bmufgquoo;g.sbgbmvbgbmutgqkso glkbgimvlxugbmurzgzuorxrkl,g.kbmg.uivsau
bmutgmv gakgoklxgvl gmvwwrotgornu grlgrb,gvl gbmvbgbmutgquzuglkbgqklbgbk
bvcugv nriugkpgvltg.sbgbmurzgpzrul a,gvl gbmkaugbmutgcluq:gvagbkgbmurz
fulviua,grbgqvagvgarxlgkpgqvlbgkpgys xfulbgbkgbmzuvbulgbmkaugqmkauglvbszu
vl gwkquzgquzugbkgbmufgslclkql;gbmvb,gbmuzupkzu,gbmutgquzugbkgfvcugmvabu
bkgesrbgbmurzgikvab,gpkzgbmutgquzuglkbgsau gbkgbvcugbmugirnrorbruagvl 
wzkpuaarklagkpgvzfu gfulgvl gabzvlxuzagrlgxkk gwvzb;gkbmuzqraugbmut
amkso g kg.tgbmufgvagbmutgmv g klug.tgbmkaugkbmuza,”gamkqrlxgbmufgbmu
muv agkpgaunuzvoguhuisbu gfulgzksl gbmugqvooagkpgbmurzgirbtjggVgpvrz
uhvfwougkpgbmug.v..ougkpgbmuaugimro zuljgg.sbgakgrbgra,gbmvbgbmu
Awvlrvz ag r glkb,gurbmuzgrlgbmragkzgrlgaunuzvogkbmuzgwoviua,gqmuzugbmut
 r glkbgprl gbmugfuzimvl raugbmutgaksxmb,gfvcugvltgabvtgkzgvbbufwb,
qmvbunuzgkbmuzgiklnulruliuagquzugbmuzugbkg.ugmv ;gqrbluaagftgIVLLR.VOAj
--[ImvwbuzgHHHjgkpg.kkcgRj]

Kpgbmugbqkgfkabgwsraavlbgfklvzimagkpgbmvbgqkzo ,gvl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gkp
bmra,gcrlxagkpgakgfvltgcrlxa,gvl gbmugovabgbmutgbszlu gksb,gmugkpgWuzs,
mvnrlxg.uulgbvculgrlgvg.vbbou,gvl gwsbgbkgakguhiuaarnugvgzvlakfgva
uhiuu agvoog.uorup,gvl grbg.urlxgpvrbmpsootgwvr ,gvl gmugmvnrlx,g.tgmra
iklnuzavbrkl,gxrnulgfvlrpuabgarxlagkpgvgpzvlc,gor.uzvo,gvl giklabvlb
awrzrb,gvl gkpgvgiouvzgvl gaubbou gsl uzabvl rlx,gbmugiklesuzkzagmv gv
frl ,gvpbuzgmvnrlxguhvibu gklugfroorklgbmzuugmsl zu gvl gbqulbt-prnu
bmksavl gvl gprnugmsl zu gqurxmbgkpgxko ,g.uar uagaronuz,gvl gkbmuz
bmrlxagqmrimgvfkslbu gbkglkgouaag(akgbmvbgbmurzgmkzauagquzugamk gqrbm
fvaatgxko ),gabroogbkgauu,gvbgbmugwzriugkpgqmvbg raoktvobtgvl grlysabriu
qmvbunuz,gqmvbgbmugzufvrl uzgkpgbmugbzuvaszuagkpgbmragcrlxgfrxmbg.u,gvl 
bkgwkaauaagbmufauonuagkpgbmvbgvoakjggBkgbmragul gvgpvoaugviisavbrklgqva
wzupuzzu gvxvrlabgmrf,gvl gpvoaugqrbluaauag.zksxmbgbkgwzknugbmvbgmugqulb
v.ksbgbkgzvraugvlgrlaszzuibrklgrlgmragwzknrliua,gbkgwzkiszugmragkql
or.uzbt;gqmuzuswkl,g.tgbmugnrzbsksagaulbuliugkpgbmkaugnuztgfulgqmkgmv g.t
bmragbzuvimuztgiklawrzu gmragzsrl,gmugqvagikl uflu gbkg.ugws.oriotgmvlxu 
vl gabzvlxou ,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgfv ugmrfg.stgkppgbmugbkzfulbgkpg.urlxg.szlb
vornu,g.tgbmug.vwbrafgbmutgxvnugmrfgrffu rvbuotg.upkzuguhuisbrkl;gv
mkzzr gvl gslmuvz gkpg.vz.vzrbt,gqmrim,glunuzbmuouaa,gmugsl uzqulb
qrbmksbgxrnrlxgqvtgurbmuzgrlgqkz gkzgokkc,gqrbmgvgbzsotgxzvnugvl gzktvo
.umvnrkszjggVpbuzgqmrim,gbkgivofgvl gvwwuvaugbmugwukwou,gvzksau gvl 
vabksl u gvbgakgabzvlxugvgbmrlx,gbmutgikslbuzpurbu gxzuvbgakzzkqgpkzgmra
 uvbm,gvl gvwwkrlbu gfkabgasfwbsksagpsluzvoaj

BmugkbmuzgcrlxgkpgFuhrik,--[Xsvbrfkarl]--mvnrlxgpkzgvgoklxgbrfug upul u 
mrag.uouvxsuzu girbt,gvl gmvnrlxgrlgbmragaruxugfvlrpuabu gbmugsbfkabgkp
qmvbgasppuzrlxgvl gwuzaunuzvliugivlg k,grpgunuzgwzrliugvl gwukwoug r ,
vl gmragfrapkzbslugmvnrlxg uornuzu gmrfgvornugrlbkgmragulufrua’gmvl a,
swklgvzbriouagkpg.urlxgbzuvbu gorcugvgcrlx,glurbmuzg r gmugrlgmra
ivwbrnrbtg raiknuzgvltbmrlxgslqkzbmtgkpgbmvbgbrboujggMragulufrua,gvpbuz
bmurzgnribkzt,glkbgprl rlxgakgfsimgxko gvagbmutguhwuibu ,gqmulgbmutgmv 
auvzimu gvl gzrpou gqrbmgbmurzgsbfkabg rorxuliu,gbmutgqulbgv.ksbgbk
wzkiszug raiknuzruag.tgbmugfkabgizsuogbkzfulbagbmutgikso grlnulbgswklgbmu
wzrakluzagbmutgmv gbvcul:g.sbgmvnrlxgwzkprbu glkbmrlxg.tgbmuau,gbmurz
ikszvxug.urlxgxzuvbuzgbmvlgbmurzgbkzfulba,gbmutgvzzrnu gvbgovabgbkgasimgv
 uxzuugkpgpszt,gva,giklbzvztgbkgbmurzgpvrbmgvl gbmugovqgkpglvbrkla,gbk
ikl uflgbmugcrlxgmrfauop,gvl gklugkpgbmugwzrlirwvoglk.oufulgkpgmragikszb,
bkgbmugzvic,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgklugvlkbmuzjggBmragokz ,gprl rlxgmrfauop
knuzikfugqrbmgwvrl,g.urlxgulnrzklu gqrbmg.szlrlxgikvoa,gwrbrpsootgbszlu 
mrag trlxgutuagbkqvz agmragfvabuz,gvagrbgquzugbkgvacgmrfgwvz klgbmvbgmu
qvagv.ougbkgul szuglkgfkzu;gqmuzuswklgbmugcrlx,g vzbrlxgvbgmrfgvgpruziu
vl gaunuzugokkc,gvagzuwzkvimrlxgmragikqvz riugvl gwsaroovlrfrbt,gqrbmgv
mvzamgvl giklabvlbgnkriugavr gbkgmrfgbmsagklot:g“Vl gqmvbg kabgbmksgbmrlc
Rgasppuz?gvfgRgrlgvg.vbm?gvfgRgfkzugvbguvaugbmvlgbmks?”ggQmuzuswklgbmu
kbmuzgrffu rvbuotgesvrou gsl uzgbmugbkzfulbgvl g ru gswklgbmugawkbjggBmu
crlx,gmvopgzkvabu ,gqvagivzzru gbmuliu;glkbgakgfsimgksbgkpgwrbtg(pkzgqmvb
ikfwvaarklgunuzgbksimu gakg.vz.vzksagaksoa,gqmk,gswklgbmug ks.bpso
rlpkzfvbrklgkpgakfugnuaauogkpgxko gbkg.ugfv ugvgwzutgkp,givsau glkbgklot
vgfvl,g.sbgvgcrlx,gakgxzuvbgrlgpkzbslugvl g uauzb,gbkg.ug.zkrou g.upkzu
bmurzgutua),g.sbg.uivsaugmragiklabvlitgzul uzu gbmurzgizsuobtgabroogfkzu
amvfupsojggBmutgvpbuzqvz agmvlxu gmrfgpkzgmvnrlxglk.otgvbbufwbu gbk
 uornuzgmrfauopg.tgvzfagpzkfgakgoklxgvgivwbrnrbtgvl gas.yuibrkl,gvl gmu
 ru gqrbmgvgikszvxug.uikfrlxgakgfvxlvlrfksagvgwzrliuj

Vlkbmuzgbrfu,gbmutg.szlbgrlgbmugavfugprzugpkszgmsl zu gvl garhbtgful
vornugvbgkliu,gbmugpkszgmsl zu gkpgbmugikffklgwukwou,gbmugarhbtgbmu
wzrlirwvogokz agkpgvgwzknrliu,garfwotgwzrakluzagkpgqvzjggQugmvnugbmuau
lvzzvbrnuagpzkfgbmufauonuagpkzgbmutglkbgklotgkqlgrb,g.sbg.kvabgkpgrbgvl 
ws.oramgrbjggIkso grbg.ugpkzgvgbuabrfkltgkpgbmurzgysabriugkzgbmurzgduvo
bkgzuorxrkl?gg ks.bouaagbmuaugvzugqvtagbkkg rppuzrlxgvl giklbzvztgbkgak
mkotgvlgul jggMv gbmutgwzkwkau gbkgbmufauonuagbkguhbul gkszgpvrbm,gbmut
qkso gmvnugiklar uzu gbmvbgrbg kuaglkbgvfworptgrlgbmugwkaauaarklgkp
buzzrbkzrua,g.sbgrlgbmugxvrlrlxgkpgful;gvl gqkso gmvnugfkzugbmvl
avbrapru gbmufauonuagqrbmgbmugaovsxmbuzagkiivarklu g.tgbmugluiuaarbtgkp
qvz,gqrbmksbgrl rppuzulbotgfrhrlxgvgfvaavizu,gvagswklgqro g.uvaba,gva
slrnuzavogvagprzugvl gaqkz gikso gfvcugrb;gmvnrlxgklot,g.tgrlbulbrkl,
avnu gakgfvltgvagbmutgfuvlbgbkgfvcugfrauzv.ougaovnuagkp,gpkzgbmugqkzcgvl 
auznriugkpgbmurzgfrlua;gakgbmvbgfvltgkpgbmugivwbvrlagquzugwsbgbkg uvbm
swklgbmugwoviugkpgiklesuab,g.tgkz uzgkpgbmugcrlxagkpgIvabrou,gysabot
kppul u gqrbmgbmugmkzzkzgkpgbmurzg uwkzbfulb,gvl gvofkabgvoogkpgbmuf
mvbu gvl g rauabuufu jggXk gfuzrbkzrksaotgwuzfrbbu gbmvbgvoogbmragxzuvb
wosl uzgamkso g.ugaqvookqu gswg.tgbmugauvgrlgbzvlawkzbvbrkl,gkzgrlgbmu
irnrogqvzagqmuzuqrbmgbmutg unkszu gklugvlkbmuz;gvl gfkabgkpgbmugful
bmufauonuagquzug.szru grlgvgpkzurxlgovl gqrbmksbgvltgpzsrbgkpgbmurz
nribkztj

Bmvbgbmugzunulsugpzkfgbmuaugikslbzrua,gbmksxmgrlgbmugmvl agkpgak
wvzarfklrksagvl gakgwzs ulbgvgwzrliu,--[WmroorwgRRj]--akgorbbougvlaquza
bmuguhwuibvbrklgxrnulgkpgrbgbkgmragwzu uiuaakza,gvl gbkgbmvbgkzrxrlvo
v.sl vliugkpgzrimuagqmrimgqvagpksl gvbgbmugprzabgovl rlxgrlgbmkaugluq
 raiknuzu gikslbzruag(pkzgbmksxmgvgxzuvbg uvog.ugpubimu gbmuliu,gtubgqu
auug‘braglkbmrlxgrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmvbgqmrimgfrxmbg.uguhwuibu ),gragbmvb
bmugsaugkpgikrlgqvagbmuzugsbbuzotgslclkql,gvl gbmvbgiklauesulbotgbmurz
xko gqvagpksl gvoogmkvz u gbkxubmuz,g.urlxgkpglkgkbmuzgsaug.sbgpkz
kzlvfulbgvl gamkq,gvagvgpszlrbszugzuauznu gpzkfgpvbmuzgbkgaklg.tgfvlt
wsraavlbgcrlxa,gqmkgquzugunuzg zvrlrlxgbmurzgfrluagbkgfvcugbmragnvabgmuvw
kpgnuaauoagvl gabvbsuagpkzgbmug uikzvbrklgkpgbmurzgwvoviuagvl gbufwoua;
qmuzuvagkszgxko gragvoqvtagrlgfkbrklgvl gbzvppri;gqugisbgrbgrlbkgv
bmksavl gafvoogwruiua,gvl givabgrbgrlbkgvgbmksavl gpkzfa,gvl gaivbbuzgvl 
 rawuzaugrbgrlgvgbmksavl gqvtajgg.sbgaswwkaugkszgcrlxagamkso gbmsagmkvz 
swgvoogbmugxko gbmutgikso gxubgrlgaunuzvogvxuagvl goubgrbgorugr oug.t
bmufj

Bmkaugkpgbmugcrlx kfgkpgFuhrikgquzugrlgakfugakzbgfkzugirnrorau gvl gfkzu
v nvliu grlgvzbagbmvlgbmugkbmuzglvbrklagv.ksbgbmufjggBmuzupkzug r gbmut
ys xu,gvagqug k,gbmvbgbmugqkzo gqvagluvzgrbagwuzrk ,gvl gokkcu gswklgbmu
 uakovbrklgqug.zksxmbgvfklxabgbmufgvagvgiuzbvrlgarxlgkpgrbjggBmut
.uorunu gbmvbgbmuguhrabuliugkpgbmugqkzo gqvag rnr u grlbkgprnugvxua,gvl 
rlgbmugorpugkpgprnugasiiuaarnugasla,gkpgqmrimgpkszgmv gvozuv tgul u 
bmurzgbrfu,gvl gbmvbgbmragqmrimgxvnugbmufgorxmbgqvagbmugprpbmjggBmugprzab
wuzramu ,gqrbmgvoogkbmuzgizuvbszua,g.tgvlgslrnuzavogrlsl vbrklgkpgqvbuz;
bmugauikl g.tgbmugmuvnulagpvoorlxgswklgsagvl gasppkivbrlxgunuztgornrlx
bmrlxgbkgqmrimgvxugbmutgvaarxlu gbmugxrvlba,gvl gamkqu g.kluagbkgbmu
Awvlrvz a,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzkwkzbrklgkpgqmrimgbmugabvbszugkpgful
vfkslbu gbkgbqulbtgpuub;gbmugbmrz g.tgprzu,gqmrimg.szlu gvl giklasfu 
voo;gbmugpkszbmg.tgvlgufkbrklgkpgbmugvrzgvl gqrl ,gqmrimgivfugqrbmgasim
nrkouliugvagbkg.uvbg kqlgunulgfvltgfkslbvrla,gqmuzurlgbmugfulg ru glkb,
.sbgquzugbszlu grlbkg.v.kklajggQmvbgrfwzuaarklagqrooglkbgbmugquvcluaagkp
msfvlg.uorupgv frb?ggVpbuzgbmug uvbmgkpgbmragpkszbmgasl,gbmugqkzo gqva
bqulbt-prnugtuvzagrlgwuzwubsvog vzcluaa:grlgbmugprpbuulbmgkpgqmrimgvgfvl
vl gvgqkfvlgquzugizuvbu ,gqmkgzuabkzu gbmugmsfvlgzviu:gbulgtuvzagvpbuz,
swklgvgiuzbvrlg vt,gbmugaslgvwwuvzu gluqotgizuvbu ,gvl garliugbmugviikslb
kpgbmurzgtuvzgbvcuag.uxrllrlxgpzkfgbmvbg vt:gbmugbmrz g vtgvpbuzgrba
izuvbrklgbmugvlirulbgxk ag ru ,gvl gbmugluqgkluagquzugarliug.kzlg vrotj
Vpbuzgqmvbgfvlluzgbmutgbmrlcgbmragovabgaslgamvoogwuzram,gftgvsbmkzgclkqa
lkb;g.sbgbmurzglsf.uzgkpgbmragpkszbmgimvlxugvxzuuagqrbmgbmugxzuvb
iklyslibrklgkpgabvzagqmrimgurxmbgmsl zu gvl gk  gtuvzagvxk,gva
vabzkokxuzagaswwkau,gwzk siu gxzuvbgvobuzvbrklagvl glknuobruagrlgbmu
qkzo j

Vagbkgwkfwgvl gfvxlrpriuliu,gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgqmrimgRgulxvxu grlgbmra
 raikszau,glurbmuzgXzuuiu,gZkfu,glkzgUxtwb,gqmubmuzgpkzgsbrorbt,
 rpprisobt,gkzgabvbu,givlgikfwvzugvltgkpgbmurzgqkzcagqrbmgbmugmrxmqvtgbk
.ugauulgrlgWuzs,gfv ug.tgbmugcrlxagkpgbmugikslbzt,gpzkfgbmugirbtgkpgEsrbk
bkgbmvbgkpgIsaikg(bmzuugmsl zu gouvxsua),gabzvrxmb,gunul,gprnu-vl -bqulbt
wviuagqr u,gwvnu ,gvl gwzknr u gklg.kbmgar uagqrbmgmrxmgvl g.uvsbrpso
qvooa;gvl giokaug.tgbmuf,gvl gvoogvoklxgklgbmugrlar u,gbqkgwuzullrvo
abzuvfa,g.kz uzu gqrbmg.uvsbrpsogwovlba,gqmrimgbmutgivoogfkotjggRlgbmra
qkzc,gqmuzugbmutgfubgqrbmgzkicagvl gfkslbvrla,gbmutgisbgbmufgbmzksxm,gvl 
fv ugbmufgunul,gvl gproou gswgwrbagvl gnvooutagqrbmgorfugvl gabklugbk
fvcugbmufgounuojggVbgbmugul gkpgunuztg vt’agykszlutgvzug.uvsbrpso
wvoviua,gpszlramu gqrbmgwzknrarkla,gnuabfulba,gvl gvzfa,gvagquoogpkz
bzvnuoouzagvagpkzgbmugvzfruagbmvbgvzugbkgwvaagbmvbgqvtjggRlgbmuguabrfvbu
kpgbmragqkzcgRgmvnugzuicklu gbmug rpprisobtgqmrimgraguawuirvoot
iklar uzv.ougrlgbmvbgwoviu;gbmutg r glkbg.sro gqrbmgvltgabkluagouaagbmvl
bulgpuubgaesvzu,gvl gmv glkgkbmuzgiklnulrulitgkpgivzzrvxug.sbg.tg zvqrlx
bmurzgokv gbmufauonuag.tgpkziugkpgvzf,gvl gcluqglkbgakgfsimgvagbmugvzbgkp
aivppko rlx,glkzgvltgkbmuzgqvtgkpgabvl rlxgbkgbmurzgqkzc,g.sbg.tgbmzkqrlx
swguvzbmgvxvrlabgbmug.sro rlxgvagrbgzkaugmrxmuz,gbvcrlxgrbgvqvtgvxvrl
qmulgbmutgmv g kluj

OubgsagmuzugzubszlgbkgkszgikvimuajggRlabuv gkpgbmuau,gvl gkpgvoogkbmuz
akzbagkpgivzzrvxua,gbmutgivsau gbmufauonuagbkg.ugivzzru gswklgful’a
amkso uzajggBmragovabgcrlxgkpgWuzs,gbmug vtgbmvbgmugqvagbvcul,gqvagbmsa
ivzzru g.ubqrhbgbqkgswklgabvnuagkpgxko ,gvl gaubgrlgvgimvrzgkpgxko grl
bmugfr  ougkpgmragvzftjggVagfvltgkpgbmuaugau vl-fulgvagquzugcroou gbk
fvcugmrfgpvoog(pkzgbmutgqkso gbvcugmrfgvornu),gakgfvltgkbmuzag(vl gbmut
iklbul u gpkzgrb)gbkkcgbmugwoviugkpgbmkaugqmkgquzugaovrl,gakgbmvbgbmut
ikso glunuzg.uvbgmrfg kql,gqmvbgaovsxmbuzgakunuzgbmutgfv ugkpgbmuau
wukwou,gbroogvgmkzaufvl,gaurdrlxgswklgmrf,g.zksxmbgmrfgbkgbmugxzksl j




IMVWBUZgNRR

KPgBMUgRLIKLNULRULIUgKPgXZUVBLUAA

Arliugqugivllkbgvbbvrlgslbkgrb,goubgsagzunulxugkszgauonuag.tgzvrorlxgvb
rb;gvl gtubgrbgraglkbgv.akosbuotgzvrorlxgvxvrlabgvltbmrlxgbkgwzkiovrfgrba
 upuiba,g.uivsaugbmutgvzugrlgvoogbmrlxagbkg.ugpksl ,gmkqg.uvsbrpsogkzgmkq
fsimgbkg.ugiknubu gakunuzjggXzuvbluaagmva,grlgxuluzvo,gbmragfvlrpuab
v nvlbvxu,gbmvbgrbgivlgokquzgrbauopgqmulgrbgwouvaua,gvl gmva,gnuztgluvz,
bmugimkriugkpg.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgikl rbrkl;gpkzgvgfvlg kuaglkb
pvoogpzkfgvoogmurxmba;gbmuzugvzugaunuzvogpzkfgqmrimgklugfvtg uaiul 
qrbmksbgpvoorlxg kqljggRbg kua,grl uu ,gvwwuvzgbkgfugbmvbgqugnvosugrbgvb
bkkgmrxmgvgzvbu,gvl gvoakgknuznvosugbmugzuakosbrklgkpgbmkaugqmkfgqugmvnu
urbmuzgauulgkzgmuvz gmvnugiklbuflu grb,gkzg rawoviu gbmufauonuagkpgbmurz
kqlgviikz :grbaguaauliugraglkbgakgunr ulbotgikffk rksagbmvbgvgfvlgfvt
lkb,gqrbmgksbgvgfrzviou,gzupsaugrbjggRgprl grbgvgnuztgmvz gbmrlxgbk
sl uzxkgfrapkzbslua,g.sbgbkg.ugiklbulbgqrbmgvgfk uzvbugfuvaszugkp
pkzbslu,gvl gbkgvnkr gxzuvbluaa,gRgbmrlcgvgnuztguvatgfvbbuzjgg‘Bra,
fubmrlca,gvgnrzbsugbkgqmrimgR,gqmkgvfglkgiklyszkz,gikso gqrbmksbgvlt
xzuvbgul uvnkszgvzzrnujggQmvb,gbmul,gragbkg.uguhwuibu gpzkfgbmufgbmvb
qkso gtubgwsbgrlbkgiklar uzvbrklgbmugxokztgvbbul rlxgbmragzupsavo,
qmuzurlgbmuzugfvtgoszcgqkzaugvf.rbrklgbmvlgunulgrlgbmug uarzugrbauop,
vl gpzsrbrklgkpgxzuvbluaa?ggPkzvafsimgvagvf.rbrklglunuzgikfwkzbagrbauop
.ubbuz,gviikz rlxgbkgrbauop,gbmvlgqmulgrbgwzkiuu ag.tgk.aiszugvl 
slpzuesulbu gqvtaj

Rgrlirbugftgikszvxugbkgwvbruliu,g.sbgRgzurlgrbgvagfsimgvagRgivlgbkqvz a
 uarzujggRgmvnugvagfsimgbkgqramgpkzgvagvlkbmuz,gvl gvookqgftgqramuagva
fsimgor.uzbtgvl grl raizubrkl;g.sbgtubgrbglunuzg.upuoogfugbkgqramgpkz
urbmuzgufwrzugkzgzktvobt,gkzgbmugufrlulitgkpgbmkaugmrxmgvl gikffvl rlx
pkzbslua:gRg kglkbgvrfgbmvbgqvt;gRgoknugftauopgbkkgquoojggQmulgRgbmrlcgbk
xzkqgxzuvbuz,g‘brag.sbgnuztgfk uzvbuot,gvl g.tgvgikfwuoou gvl gbrfkzksa
v nvliufulb,gasimgvagragwzkwuzgpkzgfugrlgzuakosbrkl,grlgwzs uliu,grl
muvobm,grlg.uvsbt,gvl gunulgrlgzrimuagbkk;g.sbgbmragaswzufugzuwsbvbrkl,
bmragfrxmbtgvsbmkzrbt,gkwwzuaagftgrfvxrlvbrkl;gvl ,gesrbugiklbzvztgbk
bmvbgkbmuz,--[YsorsagIvuavzj]--Rgamkso ,gwuzv nulbszu,gzvbmuzgimkkaugbk
.ugbmugauikl gkzgbmrz grlgWuzrxkz gbmvlgbmugprzabgvbgWvzragvbgouvab,
qrbmksbgotrlx,gzvbmuzgbmugbmrz gvbgWvzragbmvlgbmugprzabjggRgqkso glurbmuz
 rawsbugqrbmgvgwkzbuz,gvgfrauzv.ougslclkql,glkzgfvcugizkq agkwulgrl
v kzvbrklgvagRgwvaajggRgvfgbzvrlu gswgbkgvgfk uzvbugikl rbrkl,gvagquoog.t
ftgimkriugvagpkzbslu;gvl gmvnugfv ugrbgvwwuvz,grlgbmugqmkougikl sibgkpgft
orpugvl gulbuzwzraua,gbmvbgRgmvnugzvbmuzgvnkr u gbmvlgkbmuzqraugbmu
iorf.rlxgv.knugbmug uxzuugkpgpkzbslugqmuzurlgXk gmvagwoviu gfug.tgft
.rzbm;gvooglvbszvogiklabrbsbrklgraguesvootgysabgvl guvatjggFtgaksogra
asimgvgwkobzkkl,gbmvbgRgfuvaszuglkbgxkk gpkzbslug.tgbmugmurxmb,g.sbg.t
bmugpvirorbtj

.sbgrpgftgmuvzbg.uglkbgxzuvbgulksxm,g‘bragkwulgulksxmgbkgfvcugvful a,gvb
vltgklu’agzuesuab,gpzuuotgbkgovtgkwulgrbagquvcluaajggAmkso gvltgklugwsb
fugswklgikfwvzrlxgbmugorpugkpgOjgBmkzrsag.vo.sa,gvg.zvnugfvl,gmvl akfu,
ouvzlu ,gmuvobmpso,gsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gv.ksl rlxgrlgvoogakzbagkp
iklnulruliuagvl gwouvaszua,gouv rlxgvgesrubgorpu,gvl gvoogmragkql,gmra
frl gquoogwzuwvzu gvxvrlabg uvbm,gaswuzabrbrkl,gwvrl,gvl gkbmuz
rlisf.zvliuagkpgmsfvlgluiuaarbt,g trlx,gvbgovab,grlg.vbbou,gqrbmgmra
aqkz grlgmragmvl ,gpkzgbmug upuliugkpgmragikslbzt,gklgbmugklugwvzb;gvl 
klgbmugkbmuzgwvzb,gbmugorpugkpgFjgZuxsosa,gakgxzuvbgvl gmrxmgvagragclkql
bkgunuztgklu,gvl gmragul gv frzv.ou;gbmugklugqrbmksbglvfugvl gqrbmksb
 rxlrbt,gbmugkbmuzguhufwovztgvl gxokzrksagbkgvgqkl uzjggRgamkso 
 ks.bouaagavt,gvagIriuzkg r ,gikso gRgawuvcgvagquoogvagmuj

ggggg[Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.sa,grrjg20,gxrnuagbmugwzupuzuliugbkgZuxsosa,gvl 
gggggwzkiovrfagmrfgbmugmvwwruzgfvlj]

.sbgrpgRgqvagbkgikfwvzugbmufgqrbmgftgkql,gRgamkso gbmulgvoakgavtgbmvbgbmu
przabgragvagfsimgviikz rlxgbkgftgivwvirbt,gvl gpzkfg uarzu,gqmrimgR
iklpkzfgbkgftgivwvirbt,gvagbmugauikl gragpvzg.utkl grb;gbmvbgRgikso glkb
vwwzkvimgbmugovabg.sbgqrbmgnuluzvbrkl,gbmugkbmuzgRgikso gzuv rotgvbbvrl
.tgsauj

Oubgsagzubszlgbkgkszgbufwkzvogxzuvbluaa,gpzkfgqmrimgqugvzug rxzuaau jggR
 razuoramgvoog kfrlrkl,gqmubmuzgvibrnugkzgwvaarnujggKbvlua,gklugkpgbmu
aunulgqmkgmv gzrxmbgbkgwzubul gbkgbmugcrlx kfgkpgWuzarv,g r gvagRgamkso 
qroorlxotgmvnug klu,gqmrimgqva,gbmvbgmugxvnugswgbkgmragikfwubrbkzagmra
zrxmbgkpg.urlxgwzkfkbu gbkgrb,gurbmuzg.tguouibrklgkzg.tgokb,gwzknr u 
bmvbgmugvl gmragfrxmbgornugrlgbmugufwrzugksbgkpgvoogvsbmkzrbtgvl 
as.yuibrkl,gbmkaugkpgbmugvlirulbgovqaguhiuwbu ,gvl gfrxmbgulyktgvoo
or.uzbtgbmvbgqvaglkbgwzuys rirvogbkgbmuau,g.urlxgvagrfwvbrulbgkp
ikffvl rlxgvagkpg.urlxgikffvl u j

Bmugfkabgwvrlpsogvl g rpprisobgufwoktfulbgrlgbmugqkzo ,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gra
qkzbmrotgbkg raimvzxugbmugkppriugkpgvgcrlxjggRguhisaugfkzugkpgbmurz
frabvcuagbmvlgfulgikffklotg k,grlgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmugrlbkouzv.ougqurxmb
kpgbmurzgpslibrkl,gqmrimgvabksl agfujgg‘Bragmvz gbkgcuuwgfuvaszugrlgak
rffuvaszv.ougvgwkquz;gtubgakgrbgragbmvbgrbgra,gunulgbkgbmkaugqmkgvzuglkb
kpgbmug.uabglvbszu,gvgarlxsovzgrlirbufulbgbkgnrzbsugbkg.ugauvbu grlgv
woviugqmuzugtksgivllkbg kgbmugouvabgxkk gbmvbgamvooglkbg.ugwsbgswkl
zuikz ,gvl gqmuzugbmugouvabg.uluprbgzu ksl agbkgakgfvltgful,gvl gqmuzu
tkszgbvoulbgkpgv frlrabzvbrkl,gorcugbmvbgkpgwzuvimuza,gwzrlirwvoot
v  zuaauagrbauopgbkgbmugwukwou,glkgnuztguhvibgys xu,guvatgbkg uiurnu,gvl 
uvarotgiklbulbjggBmuzugvzugpuqgbmrlxagqmuzurlgqugivlgxrnugvgarliuzu
ys xfulb,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmuzugvzugpuqgqmuzurlgqugmvnuglkb,grlgakfugakzb,
vgwzrnvbugrlbuzuabjggAswuzrkzrbtgvl grlpuzrkzrbt,g kfrlrklgvl gas.yuibrkl
vzug.ksl gbkgvglvbszvogulntgvl giklbuab,gvl gfsabgkpgluiuaarbt
wuzwubsvootgrlbzulimgswklgklugvlkbmuzjggRg.uorunuglurbmuzgbmugkluglkzgbmu
kbmuzgbksimrlxgbmugzrxmbagkpgbmugkbmuzgwvzbt;goubgzuvaklgbmuzupkzu,gqmrim
ragrlpouhr.ougvl gqrbmksbgwvaarkl,g ubuzfrlugqmulgqugivlgvnvrogkszauonua
kpgrbjgg‘Braglkbgv.knugvgfklbmgvxkgbmvbgRgzuv gknuz,gbqkgAikbbramgvsbmkza
iklbul rlxgswklgbmragas.yuib,gkpgqmkfgmugqmkgabvl agpkzgbmugwukwougfvcua
bmugcrlxgbkg.ugrlgvgqkzaugikl rbrklgbmvlgvgivzbuz;gmugqmkgqzrbuagpkz
fklvzimtgwoviuagmrfgakfug uxzuuagv.knugXk grlgwkquzgvl gaknuzurxlbtj

Lkq,gbmugrlikffk rbtgkpgxzuvbluaagbmvbgRgmvnugbvculgbkgzufvzcgrlgbmra
woviu,gswklgakfugkiivarklgbmvbgmvagovbuotgwsbgrbgrlbkgftgmuv ,gragbmra:
bmuzugraglkb,gwuzv nulbszu,gvltbmrlxgfkzugwouvavlbgrlgbmugikffuziugkp
fvltgbmvlgbmugbzrvoagbmvbgqugfvcugvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuz,gksbgkpgufsovbrkl
kpgmklkszgvl gqkzbm,gqmubmuzgrlgbmuguhuzirauagkpgbmug.k tgkzgrlgbmkaugkp
bmugfrl ,gqmuzurlgaknuzurxlgxzuvbluaagivlgmvnuglkgbzsugwvzbjggVl ,grl
uvzluab,gRgmvnugkpbulgbmksxmbgbmvbg.tgpkziugkpgzuawuibgrbauopgfulgsau
wzrliuag ra vrlpsootgvl grlyszrksaotgrlgbmvbgwvzbrisovz;gpkzgbmugbmrlxgR
qvagrlprlrbuotgkppul u gvbgrlgftgimro mkk ,gbmvbgbmutgqmkguhuzirau gqrbm
fugpkz.kzugbkg kgbmurzg.uabg.uivsaugbmutgpksl gfugslqkzbmtgkpgbmurz
sbfkabgul uvnksz,gragqmvbgqugauugmvwwulgbkgbmufg vrot,gunuztgklugprl rlx
mrfauopgslqkzbmtgbkgiklbul gqrbmgbmufjggRpgqug raiknuzgbmvbgbmutgmvnugbmu
ouvabg uarzugbkgxubgbmug.ubbuzgkpgsa,gbmuzugraglkgklugqmkgqrooglkbgfvcu
rbgmrag.sarluaagbkgxrnugrbgbmuf,gvl gqmkgqrooglkbgzvbmuzg.ubzvtgmragkql
xokztgbmvlgkppul gbmurza;gvl gqroogbmuzurlgufwoktgakgfsimgpkziugklotgva
ragluiuaavztgbkgavnugbmurzgmklkszjggQmvbgamvzugmvnugbmut,gbmul,grlgbmu
ulxvxufulb,gqmuzugunuztgklugragklgbmurzgar u?ggFubmrlcagRgauugbmkau
wvov rlagkpgvlirulbgbrfuagwzuaulbrlxgbmufauonuagbkgyksabagvl g.vbbougqrbm
ulimvlbu gvzfagvl g.k ruajgg.zraakl,

ggggg[Wosbvzim,gKlgAvbrapvibrklgkzgBzvlesroorbtgkpgbmugFrl jgg.sbgrlgmra
ggggguaavt,gMkqgvgFvlgfvtg rabrlxsramgvgPovbbuzuzgpzkfgvgPzrul ,gmugivooa
gggggmrfgImzrakj]

zsllrlxgvxvrlabgVouhvl uz,gwszwkauotgfraau gmrag.okq,gvl gfv ugvgpvsobgrl
mragivzuuz;gVouhvl uzgimr gmrfgpkzgrb,g.sbgmugksxmbgbkgmvnugmv gmrf
qmrwwu jggSwklgbmragiklar uzvbrklgIvzluv uagavr ,gbmvbg“bmugaklagkp
wzrliuagouvzlu glkbmrlxgzrxmbg.sbgbkgfvlvxugmkzaua;g.tgzuvaklgbmvb,grl
voogbmurzgkbmuzguhuziraua,gunuztgklug.ul agvl gtruo agbkgbmuf;g.sbgv
mkzau,gbmvbgraglurbmuzgvgpovbbuzuzglkzgvgikszbruz,gbmzkqagbmugaklgkpgv
crlxgqrbmglkgfkzugiuzufkltgbmvlgmugqkso gbmzkqgbmvbgkpgvgwkzbuzj”

MkfuzgqvagpvrlgbkgiklaulbgbmvbgNulsa,gakgaquubgvl g uorivbugvgxk  uaagva
amugqva,gamkso g.ugqksl u gvbgbmug.vbbougkpgBzkt,gbmuzu.tgbkgvaizr.u
ikszvxugvl g.ko luaagbkgmuzgesvorbruagbmvbgivllkbgwkaar.otg.ugrlgbmkau
qmkgvzuguhufwbgpzkfg vlxuzjggBmugxk agvzugfv ugbkg.ugvlxzt,gbkgpuvz,gbk
zslgvqvt,gbkg.ugyuvoksa,gbkgxzrunu,gbkg.ugbzvlawkzbu gqrbmgwvaarkla,gbk
mklkszgbmufgqrbmgbmugnrzbsuagbmvb,gvfklxabgsa,gvzug.srobgswklgbmuau
rfwuzpuibrklajgQmkg kuaglkbgwvzbrirwvbugrlgbmugmvdvz gvl g rpprisobt,givl
iovrfglkgrlbuzuabgrlgbmugmklkszgvl gwouvaszugbmvbgvzugbmugiklauesulbagkp
mvdvz ksagvibrklajgg‘Bragwrbtgvgfvlgamkso g.ugakgwkbulbgbmvbgvoogbmrlxa
fsabgxrnugqvtgbkgmrf;gpkzbslugbmuzurlgaubagtksgbkkgzufkbugpzkfgakirubt,
vl gwoviuagtksgrlgbkkgxzuvbgvgakorbs ujggBmraguvarluaagvl gfuvlgpvirorbt
kpgfvcrlxgvoogbmrlxag.kqgsl uzgtks,gragvlguluftgbkgvoogakzbagkpgwouvaszu:
‘bragbkgaor u,glkbgbkgxk;g‘bragbkgaouuw,gvl glkbgbkgornujggIkliurnugfvl
viikfwvlru gqrbmgkflrwkbuliu:gtksgknuzqmuofgmrf;gmugfsabg.uxg rabsz.vliu
vl gkwwkarbrklgvagvlgvofa:gmrag.urlxgvl gmragxkk gvzugrlgrl rxuliujgUnro
bkgfvlgragrlgrbagbszlgxkk ,gvl gxkk gunrojgLurbmuzgragwvrlgvoqvtagbkg.u
amsllu ,glkzgwouvaszugvoqvtagbkg.ugwszasu j

Bmurzgxkk gesvorbruagvzug uv gvl gokab;gpkzgbmutgivlgklotg.ugwuziurnu g.t
ikfwvzrakl,gvl gqugwsbgbmufgksbgkpgbmra:gbmutgmvnugorbbougclkqou xugkp
bzsugwzvrau,gmvnrlxgbmurzguvzag uvpulu gqrbmgakgiklbrlsvogvl gslrpkzfgvl
vwwzk.vbrkljggMvnugbmutgbkg kgqrbmgbmugabswr uabgkpgvoogbmurzgas.yuiba?
bmutgmvnuglkgfuvlagbkgbvcugvltgv nvlbvxugkpgmrf;grpgmug.sbgavt:g“‘Bra
.uivsaugmugragftgcrlx,”gmugbmrlcagmugmvagavr gulksxmgbkguhwzuaagbmvbgmu
bmuzupkzugasppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.ugknuzikfujggBmragesvorbtgabrpouagvl 
iklasfuagbmugkbmuzgbzsugvl guaaulbrvogesvorbrua:gbmutgvzugaslcgrlgbmu
zktvobt,gvl gouvnugbmufglkbmrlxgbkgzuikfful gbmufauonuagqrbmg.sbgvibrkla
bmvbg rzuibotgikliuzlgvl gauznugbmugpslibrklgkpgbmurzgwoviu;g‘bragakgfsim
bkg.ugvgcrlx,gbmvbgbmragvoklugzufvrlagbkgbmufjggBmugksbuzgxovzugbmvb
ulnrzklagmrfgikliuvoagvl gamzks agmrfgpzkfgsa;gkszgarxmbgragbmuzu
zuwuoou gvl g raarwvbu ,g.urlxgproou gvl gabkwwu g.tgbmragwzunvrorlx
orxmbjggBmugaulvbugvqvz u gbmugwzrdugkpguokesuliugbkgBr.uzrsa;gmugzupsau 
rb,guabuufrlxgbmvbgbmksxmgrbgmv g.uulgysab,gmugikso g uzrnuglkgv nvlbvxu
pzkfgvgys xfulbgakgwvzbrvo,gvl gbmvbgqvagakgorbbougpzuugbkgys xuj

Vagqugxrnugbmufgvoogv nvlbvxuagkpgmklksz,gakg kgqugakkbmugvl gvsbmkzrau
voogbmurzgnriuagvl g upuiba,glkbgklotg.tgvwwzk.vbrkl,g.sbg.tgrfrbvbrkl
voakjggUnuztgklugkpgVouhvl uz’agpkookquzagivzzru gmragmuv gklgklugar u,
vagmug r ;gvl gbmugpovbbuzuzagkpg rkltarsagzvlgvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuzgrlgmra
wzuauliu,gvl gabsf.ou gvbgvl gknuzbszlu gqmvbunuzgqvagsl uzgpkkb,gbkgamuq
bmutgquzugvagwsz.orl gvagmujggMuzlrvgrbauopgmvagvoakgauznu gbkgzuikfful 
vgfvlgbkgpvnksz;gRgmvnugauulg uvpluaagvppuibu ;gvl g.uivsaugbmugfvabuz
mvbu gmragqrpu,gWosbvzim--[qmk,gmkqunuz,gklotgxrnuagklugrlabvliu;gvl grl
bmragmugbuooagsagbmvbgbmugfvlgnrarbu gmragqrpugwzrnvbuotj]--mvagauulgmra
ikszbruzagzuws rvbugbmurza,gqmkfgbmutgoknu ;gvl ,gqmrimgragtubgfkzu,
sliouvlorluaagvl gvoogfvlluzgkpg raakosbuluaagmvnugakg.uulgrlgpvamrkl;gva
voakg raoktvobt,g.ovawmuft,gizsuobt,gmuzuat,gaswuzabrbrkl,grzzuorxrkl,
uppufrlvit,gvl gqkzau,grpgqkzaugbmuzug.u;gvl g.tgvlguhvfwougtubgfkzu
 vlxuzksagbmvlgbmvbgkpgFrbmzr vbua’gpovbbuzuza,gqmk,gvagbmurzgfvabuz
wzubul u gbkgbmugmklkszgkpgvgxkk gwmtarirvl,givfugbkgmrfgbkgmvnu
rlirarklagvl givsbuzruagfv ugrlgbmurzgorf.a;gpkzgbmuaugkbmuzagasppuzu 
bmugakso,gvgfkzug uorivbugvl glk.ougwvzb,gbkg.ugivsbuzrau j

.sbgbkgul gqmuzugRg.uxvl:gbmugUfwuzkzgV zrvl,g rawsbrlxgqrbmgbmu
wmrokakwmuzgPvnkzrlsagv.ksbgbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgakfugqkz ,gPvnkzrlsa
akklgtruo u gmrfgbmugnribkzt;gpkzgqmrimgmragpzrul agzu.scrlxgmrf,g“Tks
bvocgarfwot,”gavr gmu;g“qkso gtksglkbgmvnugmrfgqrauzgbmvlgR,gqmkgikffvl a
bmrzbtgouxrkla?”ggVsxsabsagqzkbugnuzauagvxvrlabgVarlrsagWkoork,gvl g“R,”
gavr gWkoork,g“avtglkbmrlx,gpkzgrbgraglkbgwzs uliugbkgqzrbugrlgiklbuab
qrbmgmrfgqmkgmvagwkquzgbkgwzkaizr.uj”ggVl gbmutgquzugzrxmbjggPkz
 rkltarsa,g.uivsaugmugikso glkbguesvogWmrokhulsagrlgwkuatgvl gWovbkgrl
 raikszau,gikl uflu gbmugklugbkgbmugesvzzrua,gvl gaulbgbmugkbmuzgbkg.u
ako gpkzgvgaovnugrlbkgbmugraovl gkpgVUxrlvj




IMVWBUZgNRRR

KPgBMUgVZBgKPgIKLPUZULIU

‘Bragvgisabkfgkpgkszgysabriugbkgikl uflgakfugpkzgvgqvzlrlxgbkgkbmuzajggBk
ikl uflgbmufgpkzgmvnrlxg klugvfraa,gquzugpkoot,gvagWovbkgavta,

ggggg[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gmkqunuz,grlgmragOrpugkpgWovbk,grrrjg181,gavta
gggggbmvbgWovbk’agkppuliugqvagbmugawuvcrlxgbkkgpzuuotgbkgbmugbtzvlbj]

pkzgqmvbgrag klugivlglunuzg.ugsl klu;g.sbg‘bragbkgbmugul gbmutgfvtgkppul 
lkgfkzu,gvl gbmvbgkbmuzagfvtgvnkr gbmuguhvfwougkpgbmurzgkppuliu:gqug k
lkbgikzzuibgbmugfvlgqugmvlx;gqugikzzuibgkbmuzag.tgmrfjggRg kgbmugavfu;gft
uzzkzagvzugakfubrfuaglvbszvo,grlikzzrxr.ou,gvl grzzufu rv.ou:g.sbgbmu
xkk gqmrimgnrzbsksagfulg kgbkgbmugws.ori,grlgfvcrlxgbmufauonuagrfrbvbu ,
R,gwuzv nulbszu,gfvtg kgrlgfvcrlxgftgfvlluzagvnkr u :

ggggggggg“Lkllugnr ua,gVo.rgsbgfvougnrnvbgprorsa?gsbesu
gggggggggg.vzzsagrlkwa?ggfvxlsfg kisfulbsf,glugwvbzrvfgzurl
ggggggggggWuz uzugxsragnuorb;”

ggggg[“ kabgbmksglkbgauugmkqgroogbmugaklgkpgVo.sagornua?ggvl gmkqgbmu
gggggrl rxulbg.vzzsa?gvgxzuvbgqvzlrlxgouabgvltgklugamkso grliorlugbk
ggggg raarwvbugmragwvbzrfkltj”--Mkzviu,gAvbj,grjg4,g109j]

ws.oramrlxgvl gviisarlxgftgkqlgrfwuzpuibrkla,gakfugklugqroogouvzlgbkg.u
vpzvr gkpgbmufjggBmugwvzbagbmvbgRgfkabguabuufgrlgftauop,g uzrnugfkzu
mklkszgpzkfg uiztrlx,gbmvlgpkzgikfful rlxgftauopgqmrimgragbmugzuvaklgqmt
Rgakgkpbulgpvoogrlbk,gvl gakgfsimgrlarabgswklgbmvbgabzvrljgg.sb,gqmulgvoo
ragasffu gsw,gvgfvlglunuzgawuvcagkpgmrfauopgqrbmksbgokaa;gvgfvl’a
viisavbrklagkpgmrfauopgvzugvoqvtag.uorunu ;gmragwzvrauaglunuz:gBmuzugfvt,
wuzv nulbszu,g.ugakfugkpgftgkqlgikfwouhrklgqmkg.ubbuzgrlabzsibgftauopg.t
iklbzvzrubtgbmvlg.tgarfrorbs u,gvl g.tgvnkr rlxgbmvlg.tgrfrbvbrkljggBmu
uo uzgIvbkgqvagzuxvz rlxgbmragakzbgkpg rairworlu,gqmulgmugavr ,g“bmvbgbmu
qraugfvtgouvzlgfkzugkpgpkkoa,gbmvlgpkkoagivlgkpgbmugqrau”;gvl gWvsavlrva
buooagsagkpgvlgvlirulbgwovtuzgswklgbmugmvzw,gqmkgqvagqklbgbkgfvcugmra
aimkovzagxkgbkgmuvzgklugqmkgwovtu gnuztgroo,gqmkgornu gknuzgvxvrlabgmrf,
bmvbgbmutgfrxmbgouvzlgbkgmvbugmrag raikz agvl gpvoaugfuvaszuajggBmu
mkzzkzgkpgizsuobtgfkzugrliorluagfugbkgioufulit,gbmvlgvltguhvfwougkp
ioufulitgikso gwkaar.otg kjggVgxkk gzr uzg kuaglkbgakgfsimgful gftgauvb,
vagvlgvqcqvz gvbbkzlutgkzgvgNulubrvl,gklgmkzau.vic;gvl gvgiokqlramgqvtgkp
awuvcrlxgfkzugzupkzfagfrlugbmvlgbmugfkabgikzzuibjggBmugzr risoksagvl 
arfwougokkcgkpgvlkbmuzgvoqvtagqvzlagvl gv nrauagfu;gbmvbgqmrimgwzrica,
zksauagvl grlirbuagfsimg.ubbuzgbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgbricouajggBmugbrfugraglkq
wzkwuzgpkzgsagbkgzupkzfg.vicqvz ;gfkzug.tg raaulbrlxgbmvlg.tgvxzuurlx;g.t
 rppuzrlxgfkzugbmvlg.tgiklaulbjggWzkprbrlxgorbboug.tgxkk guhvfwoua,gR
fvcugsaugkpgbmkaugbmvbgvzugroo,gqmrimgvzugunuztqmuzugbkg.ugpksl :gR
ul uvnkszgbkgzul uzgftauopgvagvxzuuv.ougvagRgauugkbmuzagkppularnu;gva
iklabvlbgvagRgauugkbmuzagpricou;gvagvppv.ougvagRgauugkbmuzagzksxm;gva
xkk gvagRgauugkbmuzagunro:g.sbgRgwzkwkaugbkgftauopgrfwzvibriv.ou
fuvaszuaj

Bmugfkabgpzsrbpsogvl glvbszvoguhuziraugkpgbmugfrl ,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gra
iklnuzavbrkl;gRgprl gbmugsaugkpgrbgfkzugaquubgbmvlgkpgvltgkbmuzgvibrklgkp
orpu;gvl gpkzgbmvbgzuvaklgrbgragbmvb,grpgRgquzuglkqgikfwuoou gbkgimkkau,
Rgamkso gakkluz,gRgbmrlc,giklaulbgbkgokaugftgarxmb,gbmvlgftgmuvzrlxgvl 
awuuimjggBmugVbmulrvla,gvl gvoakgbmugZkfvla,gcuwbgbmraguhuziraugrlgxzuvb
mklkszgrlgbmurzgviv ufrua;gbmugRbvorvlagzubvrlgakfugbzviuagkpgrbgbkgbmra
 vt,gbkgbmurzgxzuvbgv nvlbvxu,gvagragfvlrpuabg.tgbmugikfwvzraklgkpgksz
sl uzabvl rlxagqrbmgbmurzajggBmugabs tgkpg.kkcagragvgovlxsramrlxgvl 
puu.ougfkbrklgbmvbgmuvbaglkb,gqmuzuvagiklnuzavbrklgbuvimuagvl guhuziraua
vbgkliujggRpgRgiklnuzaugqrbmgvgabzklxgfrl gvl gvgzksxmg rawsbvlb,gmu
wzuaauagswklgftgpovlca,gvl gwzricagfugzrxmbgvl goupb;gmragrfvxrlvbrkla
abrzgswgfrlu;gyuvoksat,gxokzt,gvl giklbulbrkl,gabrfsovbugvl gzvraugfugsw
bkgakfubmrlxgv.knugftauop;gvl gviesruaiuliugragvgesvorbtgvobkxubmuz
bu rksagrlg raikszaujgg.sb,gvagkszgfrl gpkzbrpruagrbauopg.tgbmu
ikffslrivbrklgkpgnrxkzksagvl gzuxsovzgsl uzabvl rlxa,g‘braglkbgbkg.u
uhwzuaau gmkqgfsimgrbgokauagvl g uxuluzvbuag.tgbmugiklbrlsvogikffuziugvl 
pvfrorvzrbtgqugmvnugqrbmgfuvlgvl gquvcgawrzrba;gbmuzugraglkgiklbvxrkl
bmvbgawzuv agorcugbmvb;gRgclkqgaspprirulbotg.tguhwuzruliugqmvbg‘bragqkzbm
vgtvz jggRgoknugbkg raikszaugvl g rawsbu,g.sbgrbgragqrbmg.sbgpuqgful,gvl 
pkzgftauop;gpkzgbkg kgrbgvagvgawuibviougvl gulbuzbvrlfulbgbkgxzuvb
wuzakla,gvl gbkgfvcugkpgvgfvl’agqrbgvl gqkz agikfwubrbrnugwvzv ugra,grl
ftgkwrlrkl,gnuztgsl.uikfrlxgvgfvlgkpgmklkszj

Pkootgragvg.v gesvorbt;g.sbglkbgbkg.ugv.ougbkgul szugrb,gbkgpzubgvl gnuh
vbgrb,gvagRg k,gragvlkbmuzgakzbgkpg rauvaugorbbougouaagbzks.ouakfugbmvl
pkootgrbauop;gvl gragbmugbmrlxgbmvbgRgqrooglkqgviisaugrlgftauopjggRgulbuz
rlbkgiklpuzuliu,gvl g rawsbugqrbmgxzuvbgor.uzbtgvl gpvirorbt,gpkzvafsim
vagkwrlrklgfuubagrlgfugqrbmgvgakrognuztgslprbgpkzgwulubzvbrkl,gvl 
qmuzurlgbkgbvcugvltg uuwgzkkb;glkgwzkwkarbrklagvabklramgfu,glkg.uorup
kppul agfu,gbmksxmglunuzgakgiklbzvztgbkgftgkql;gbmuzugraglkgakgpzrnkoksa
vl guhbzvnvxvlbgpvlitgbmvbg kuaglkbgauufgbkgfugasrbv.ougbkgbmugwzk sibrkl
kpgmsfvlgqrbjggQu,gqmkg uwzrnugkszgys xfulbgkpgbmugzrxmbgkpg ubuzfrlrlx,
okkcgrl rppuzulbotgswklgbmug rnuzaugkwrlrkla,gvl grpgqugrliorluglkbgksz
ys xfulbgbkgbmuf,gtubgquguvarotgxrnugbmufgbmugmuvzrlx:gQmuzugklugaivougra
bkbvootgufwbt,gRgoubgbmugkbmuzgqvnuzgsl uzgvlgko gqrpu’ag zuvfa;gvl gR
bmrlcgftauopguhisav.ou,grpgRgwzupuzgbmugk  glsf.uz;gBmsza vtgzvbmuzgbmvl
Pzr vt;grpgRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugbmugbquopbmgkzgpkszbuulbmgbmvlgbmugbmrzbuulbm
vbgbv.ou;grpgRgmv gzvbmuz,gklgvgykszlut,gauugvgmvzugzslg.tgfugbmvlgizkaa
ftgqvt,gvl gzvbmuzgxrnugftgfvlgftgoupbgpkkbgbmvlgftgzrxmb,gqmulgmugikfua
bkgwsbgklgftgabkicrlxajggVoogasimgzunuzruagvagvzugrlgizu rbgvzksl gsa,
 uauznugvbgouvabgvgmuvzrlx:gpkzgftgwvzb,gbmutgklotgqrbmgfugrfwkzb
rlvlrbt,g.sbgbmutgrfwkzbgbmvbjggFkzuknuz,gnsoxvzgvl givasvogkwrlrklagvzu
akfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlglkbmrlxgrlglvbszu;gvl gmugqmkgqrooglkbgasppuzgmrfauop
bkgwzkiuu gakgpvz,gpvooa,gwuzv nulbszu,grlbkgbmugnriugkpgk.abrlvit,gbk
vnkr gbmvbgkpgaswuzabrbrklj

Bmugiklbzv ribrklagkpgys xfulba,gbmul,glurbmuzgkppul glkzgvobuz,gbmut
klotgzksaugvl guhuzirau,gfujgQugunv ugikzzuibrkl,gqmuzuvagqugksxmbgbk
kppuzgvl gwzuaulbgkszauonuagbkgrb,guawuirvootgqmulgrbgvwwuvzagrlgbmugpkzf
kpgiklpuzuliu,gvl glkbgkpgvsbmkzrbtjggVbgunuztgkwwkarbrkl,gqug kglkb
iklar uzgqmubmuzgkzglkgrbg.ug sab,g.sb,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx,gmkqgbkg raulxvxu
kszauonua:grlabuv gkpguhbul rlxgbmugvzfa,gqugbmzsabgksbgkszgiovqajggR
ikso gasppuzgftauopgbkg.ugzs uotgmvl ou g.tgftgpzrul ,gakgfsimgvagbkgbuoo
fugbmvbgRgvfgvgpkko,gvl gbvocgRgclkqglkbgkpgqmvbjggRgoknugabksb
uhwzuaarklagvfklxabgxulbougful,gvl gbkgmvnugbmufgawuvcgvagbmutgbmrlc;gqu
fsabgpkzbrptgvl gmvz ulgkszgmuvzrlxgvxvrlabgbmragbul uzluaagkpgbmu
iuzufklrksagaksl gkpgqkz ajgRgoknugvgabzklxgvl gfvlotgpvfrorvzrbtgvl 
iklnuzavbrkl:gvgpzrul amrwgbmvbgwouvauagrbauopgrlgbmugamvzwluaagvl 
nrxkszgkpgrbagikffslrivbrkl,gorcugoknugrlg.rbrlxgvl gaizvbimrlx:grbgra
lkbgnrxkzksagvl gxuluzksagulksxm,grpgrbg.uglkbgesvzzuoakfu,grpgrbg.u
irnrorau gvl gvzbrprirvo,grpgrbgbzuv aglriuotgvl gpuvzagbmugamkic:

ggggggg“Luesugulrfg rawsbvzrgarlugzuwzumularklugwkbuabj”

ggggg[“Lurbmuzgivlgvgfvlg rawsbu,g.sbgmugfsabgiklbzv ribj”
gggggg(Kz:)g“Lkzgivlgwukwoug rawsbugqrbmksbgzuwzumularklj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlr.j,grjg8j]

Qmulgvltgklugiklbzv ribagfu,gmugzvrauagftgvbbulbrkl,glkbgftgvlxuz:gR
v nvliugbkqvz agmrfgqmkgiklbzknuzba,gqmkgrlabzsibagfu;gbmugivsaugkpgbzsbm
ksxmbgbkg.ugbmugikffklgivsaug.kbmgkpgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzjggQmvbgqroo
bmugvlxztgfvlgvlaquz?ggWvaarklgmvagvozuv tgiklpksl u gmragys xfulb;
vxrbvbrklgmvagsaszwu gbmugwoviugkpgzuvakljggRbgquzuglkbgvfraagbmvbgbmu
 uirarklgkpgkszg rawsbuagamkso gwvaag.tgqvxuz:gbmvbgbmuzugfrxmbg.ugv
fvbuzrvogfvzcgkpgkszgokaaua,gbkgbmugul gqugfrxmbgbmug.ubbuzgzufuf.uz
bmuf;gvl gbmvbgftgfvlgfrxmbgbuoogfu:g“Tkszgrxlkzvliugvl gk.abrlvitgikab
tksgovabgtuvz,gvbgaunuzvogbrfua,gvgmsl zu gizkqlaj”ggRgmvrogvl givzuaa
bzsbmgrlgqmvbgesvzbuzgakunuzgRgprl grb,gvl gimuuzpsootgaszzul uzgftauop,
vl gkwulgftgiklesuzu gvzfagvagpvzgkppgvagRgivlg raiknuzgrb;gvl ,gwzknr u 
rbg.uglkbgbkkgrfwuzrksaot,gbvcugvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgzuwzknu ,gvl 
viikffk vbugftauopgbkgftgviisauza,gnuztgkpbulgfkzug.tgzuvaklgkpgirnrorbt
bmvlgvful fulb,goknrlxgbkgxzvbrptgvl glkszramgbmugor.uzbtgkpgv fklrbrkl
.tgftgpvirorbtgkpgas.frbbrlxgbkgrb,gvl gbmragunulgvbgftgkqlguhwulauj

Lunuzbmuouaa,grbgragmvz gbkg.zrlxgbmugfulgkpgftgbrfugbkgrb:gbmutgmvnuglkb
bmugikszvxugbkgikzzuib,g.uivsaugbmutgmvnuglkbgbmugikszvxugbkgasppuz
bmufauonuagbkg.ugikzzuibu ;gvl gawuvcgvoqvtagqrbmg raarfsovbrklgrlgbmu
wzuauliugkpgklugvlkbmuz:gRgbvcugakgxzuvbgvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgys xu gvl 
clkql,gbmvbgrbgragvofkabgrl rppuzulbgbkgfugrlgqmrimgkpgbmugbqkgpkzfagRgvf
ak:gftgrfvxrlvbrklgakgkpbulgiklbzv ribagvl gikl uflagrbauop,gbmvbg‘bra
voogklugbkgfugrpgvlkbmuzg kgrb,guawuirvootgiklar uzrlxgbmvbgRgxrnugmra
zuwzumularklglkgxzuvbuzgvsbmkzrbtgbmvlgRgimkkau;g.sbgRg.zuvcgqrbmgmrf,
qmkgivzzruagmrfauopgakgmrxm,gvagRgclkqgkpgklugqmkgzuwulbagmragv nriu,
rpglkbg.uorunu ,gvl gbvcuagrbgpkzgvlgvppzklbgrpgrbg.uglkbgrffu rvbuot
pkookqu jggBmvbgAkizvbuagvoqvtagzuiurnu gafrorlxotgbmugiklbzv ribrkla
kppuzu gbkgmragvzxsfulba,gvgfvlgfvtgavtgvzkaugpzkfgmragabzulxbmgkp
zuvakl;gvl gbmvb,gbmugv nvlbvxug.urlxgiuzbvrlgbkgpvoogklgmragar u,gmu
viiuwbu gbmufgvagvgfvbbuzgkpgluqgnribkztjgg.sbgqugauu,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,
bmvbglkbmrlxgrlgvzxsfulbgzul uzagkszgaulbrfulbgakg uorivbu,gvagbmu
kwrlrklgkpgwzu-ufrluliu,gvl g ra vrlgkpgbmugv nuzavzt;gvl gbmvb,grl
zuvakl,g‘bragzvbmuzgpkzgbmugquvcuzgbkgbvcugrlgxkk gwvzbgbmugkwwkarbrkla
bmvbgikzzuibgmrfgvl gaubgmrfgzrxmbjggRlguvzluab,gRgzvbmuzgimkkaugbmu
ikfwvltgkpgbmkaugqmkgzsppougfugbmvlgkpgbmkaugqmkgpuvzgfu;g‘bragvg soogvl 
mszbpsogwouvaszugbkgmvnugbkg kgqrbmgwukwougqmkgv frzugsagvl gvwwzknugkp
voogqugavtjggVlbrabmuluagikffvl u gmragimro zulglunuzgbkgbvcugrbgcrl ot
kzgpkzgvgpvnksz,gqmulgvltgfvlgikfful u gbmufjggRgprl gRgvfgfsimgwzks uz
kpgbmugnribkztgRgk.bvrlgknuzgftauop,gqmul,grlgbmugnuztgvz kszgkpg rawsbu,
Rgfvcugftauopgas.frbgbkgftgv nuzavzt’agpkziugkpgzuvakl,gbmvlgRgvfgwouvau 
qrbmgbmugnribkztgRgk.bvrlgknuzgmrfgbmzksxmgmragquvcluaajggRlgprlu,gR
zuiurnugvl gv frbgkpgvoogfvlluzgkpgvbbvicagbmvbgvzug rzuib,gmkqgquvc
akunuz;g.sbgRgvfgbkkgrfwvbrulbgkpgbmkaugbmvbgvzugfv ugksbgkpgpkzfjggR
ivzuglkbgqmvbgbmugas.yuibgra,gbmugkwrlrklagvzugbkgfugvoogklu,gvl gRgvf
vofkabgrl rppuzulbgqmubmuzgRgxubgbmug.ubbuzgkzgbmugqkzaujggRgivl
wuviuv.otgvzxsugvgqmkoug vtgbkxubmuz,grpgbmugvzxsfulbg.ugivzzru gklgqrbm
fubmk ;gRg kglkbgakgfsimgzuesrzugpkziugvl gas.boubtgvagkz uz;gRgfuvlgbmu
kz uzgqmrimgqugunuztg vtgk.auznugrlgbmugqzvlxorlxagkpgamuwmuz agvl 
amkw-.kta,g.sbglunuzgvfklxabgsa:grpgbmutgabvzbgpzkfgbmurzgas.yuib,g‘bra
ksbgkpgrlirnrorbt,gvl gakg‘bragqrbmgsa;g.sbgbmurzgbsfsobgvl grfwvbruliu
lunuzgwsbgbmufgksbgkpgbmurzgbmufu;gbmurzgvzxsfulbgabroogiklbrlsuagrba
ikszau;grpgbmutgrlbuzzswb,gvl g kglkbgabvtgpkzgklugvlkbmuz,gbmutgvbgouvab
sl uzabvl gklugvlkbmuzjggVltgklugvlaquzagbkkgquoogpkzgfu,grpgmugvlaquza
qmvbgRgavt:gqmulgbmug rawsbugragrzzuxsovzgvl g rakz uzu ,gRgouvnugbmu
bmrlxgrbauop,gvl grlarabgswklgbmugpkzfgqrbmgvlxuzgvl grl raizubrkl;
pvoorlxgrlbkgqropso,gfvorirksa,gvl grfwuzrksagqvtgkpg rawsbvbrkl,gkp
qmrimgRgvfgvpbuzqvz agvamvfu jgg‘Bragrfwkaar.ougbkg uvogpvrzotgqrbmgv
pkko:gftgys xfulbgraglkbgklotgikzzswbu gsl uzgbmugmvl gkpgakgrfwubsksagv
fvabuz,g.sbgftgiklairuliugvoakj

Kszg rawsbuagksxmbgbkg.ugrlbuz ribu gvl gwslramu gvagquoogvagkbmuzgnuz.vo
izrfua:gqmvbgnriug kgbmutglkbgzvraugvl gmuvwgsw,g.urlxgvoqvtagxknuzlu 
vl gikffvl u g.tgwvaarkl?ggQugprzabgesvzzuogqrbmgbmurzgzuvakla,gvl gbmul
qrbmgbmugfuljggQugklotgouvzlgbkg rawsbugbmvbgqugfvtgiklbzv rib;gvl gak,
unuztgklugiklbzv ribrlxgvl g.urlxgiklbzv ribu ,grbgpvooagksbgbmvbgbmu
pzsrbgkpg rawsbvbrklgragbkgokaugvl gvllrmrovbugbzsbmjggBmuzupkzugrbgra
bmvbgWovbkgrlgmragZuws.origwzkmr.rbagbmraguhuziraugbkgpkkoagvl groo-.zu 
wukwoujggBkgqmvbgul g kgtksgxkgv.ksbgbkgrlesrzugkpgmrf,gqmkgclkqaglkbmrlx
bkgbmugwszwkau?ggVgfvlg kuaglkgrlysztgbkgbmugas.yuib,gqmulgmugouvnuagrb
bkgauucgmkqgmugfvtgbzuvbgrb;gRg kglkbgfuvlg.tgvlgvzbrprirvogvl 
aimkovabrigqvt,g.sbg.tgvglvbszvogklu,gqrbmgvgaksl gsl uzabvl rlxjggQmvb
qroogrbg.ugrlgbmugul ?ggKlugporuagbkgbmuguvab,gbmugkbmuzgbkgbmugquab;
bmutgokaugbmugwzrlirwvo,g rawuzarlxgrbgrlgbmugizkq gkpgrlir ulbagvpbuzgvl
mkszgkpgbufwuab,gbmutgclkqglkbgqmvbgbmutgauuc:gklugragokq,gbmugkbmuz
mrxm,gvl gvgbmrz gqr ujggKlugivbimuagvbgvgqkz gvl gvgarfrou;gvlkbmuzgra
lkgoklxuzgaular.ougkpgqmvbgragavr grlgkwwkarbrklgbkgmrf,gvl gbmrlcagklot
kpgxkrlxgklgvbgmragkqlgzvbu,glkbgkpgvlaquzrlxgtks:gvlkbmuz,gprl rlx
mrfauopgbkkgquvcgbkgfvcugxkk gmragzuab,gpuvzagvoo,gzupsauagvoo,gvbgbmu
nuztg.uxrllrlx,giklpksl agbmugas.yuib;gkz,grlgbmugnuztgmurxmbgkpgbmu
 rawsbu,gabkwagamkzbgvl gragaroulb,g.tgvgwuunramgrxlkzvliugvppuibrlxgv
wzks giklbufwbgkzgvgpkkoramotggfk uabgvnkr vliugkpgpszbmuzg u.vbu:
wzknr u gbmragfvlgabzrcua,gmugivzuaglkbgmkqgfsimgmugovtagmrfauopgkwul;
bmugkbmuzgikslbagmragqkz a,gvl gqurxmagbmufgpkzgzuvakla;gvlkbmuzgklot
.zvqoa,gvl gsauagbmugv nvlbvxugkpgmragoslxajggMuzu’agklugqmkgouvzlu ot
iklios uagvxvrlabgmrfauop,gvl gvlkbmuzgqmkg uvpulagtksgqrbmgwzupviuagvl 
aulauouaag rxzuaarkla:gvlgkbmuzgpvooagrlbkg kqlzrxmbgzvrorlx,gvl gauucagv
esvzzuogvpbuzgbmugXuzfvlgpvamrkl,gbkg raulxvxugmrfauopgpzkfgvgqrbgbmvb
wzuaauagbkkgmvz gswklgmrf:gvl gvgovabgfvlgauuaglkbmrlxgrlbkgbmugzuvaklgkp
bmugbmrlx,g.sbg zvqagvgorlugkpgirzisfnvoovbrklgv.ksbgtksgkpg rvouibri
iovsaua,gvl gbmugpkzfsovagkpgmragvzbj

Lkq,gqmkgqkso glkbgulbuzgrlbkg rabzsabgkpgairuliua,gvl g ks.bgqmubmuzgmu
ivlgzuvwgpzkfgbmufgvltgakor gpzsrbgpkzgbmugauznriugkpgorpu,giklar uzrlx
bmugsaugqugwsbgbmufgbk?

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lrmrogavlvlbr.sagorbbuzraj”

gggggggggg[“Oubbuzagqmrimgiszuglkbmrlxj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g59j]

Qmkgmvagxkbgsl uzabvl rlxg.tgmragokxri?ggQmuzugvzugvoogmuzgpvrzgwzkfraua?

gggggggggg“Luigv gfuorsagnrnul sf,gluigv gikffk rsag raauzul sfj”

gggggggggg[“Rbglurbmuzgfvcuagvgfvlgornug.ubbuzglkzgbvocg.ubbuzj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlj,grjg19j]

Ragbmuzugfkzuglkraugkzgiklpsarklgrlgbmugaiko rlxgkpgmuzzrlx-qrnuagbmvlgrl
bmugws.orig rawsbuagkpgfulgkpgbmragwzkpuaarkl?ggRgmv gzvbmuzgftgakl
amkso gouvzlgrlgvgbvw-mksaugbkgawuvc,gbmvlgrlgbmugaimkkoagbkgwzvbujggBvcu
vgfvabuzgkpgvzba,gvl giklpuzgqrbmgmrf:gqmtg kuagmuglkbgfvcugsagaular.ou
kpgbmragvzbrprirvoguhiuoouliu?gvl gqmtg kuagmuglkbgivwbrnvbugqkfulgvl 
rxlkzvfsaua,gvagqugvzu,gqrbmgv frzvbrklgvbgbmugabuv rluaagkpgmragzuvakla
vl gbmug.uvsbtgkpgmragkz uz?gqmtg kuagmuglkbgaqvtgvl gwuzasv ugsagbkgqmvb
mugqroo?gqmtg kuagvgfvl,gqmkgmvagakgfsimgv nvlbvxugrlgfvbbuzgvl 
bzuvbfulb,gfrhgzvrorlx,grl raizubrkl,gvl gpsztgrlgmrag rawsbvbrkla?
Abzrwgmrfgkpgmragxkql,gmragmkk ,gvl gmragOvbrl,goubgmrfglkbg.vbbuzgksz
uvzagqrbmgVzrabkbou,gwszugvl garfwou,gtksgqroogbvcugmrfgpkzgklugkpgsa,
kzgqkzaujggQmroabgbmutgbkzfulbgsagqrbmgbmragikfworivbrklgvl giklpsarklgkp
qkz a,grbgpvzuagqrbmgbmuf,gfubmrlca,gvagqrbmgysxxouza;gbmurzg uhbuzrbt
rfwkauagswklgkszgaulaua,g.sbg kuaglkbgvbgvoogqkzcgswklgkszg.uorupgbmra
ouxuz ufvrlguhiuwbu ,gbmutgwuzpkzfglkbmrlxgbmvbgraglkbgnuztgkz rlvztgvl 
fuvl:gpkzg.urlxgbmugfkzugouvzlu ,gbmutgvzuglklugbmugouaagpkkoaj

ggggg[AkgMk..uagavr gbmvbgrpgmugmv gzuv gvagfsimgvagbmugviv ufrivo
gggggwu vlbagmugamkso gmvnugclkqlgvagorbbouj]

Rgoknugvl gmklkszgclkqou xugvagfsimgvagbmutgbmvbgmvnugrb,gvl grlgrbagbzsu
saug‘bragbmugfkabglk.ougvl gbmugxzuvbuabgviesrarbrklgkpgful;g.sbgrlgasim
vagRgawuvcgkpg(vl gbmuglsf.uzgkpgbmufgragrlprlrbu),gqmkg.sro gbmurz
psl vfulbvogaspprirulitgvl gnvosugswklgrb,gqmkgvwwuvogpzkfgbmurz
sl uzabvl rlxgbkgbmurzgfufkzt:

gggggggggggggggggggg“As.gvorulvgsf.zvgovbulbua,”

ggggg[“Amuobuzrlxgsl uzgbmugamv kqgkpgkbmuzaj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g33j]

vl gqmkgivlg kglkbmrlxg.sbg.tg.kkc,gRgmvbugrb,grpgRg vzugbkgavtgak,gqkzau
bmvlgabswr rbtjggRlgftgikslbzt,gvl grlgftgbrfu,gouvzlrlxgrfwzknua
pkzbsluagulksxm,g.sbglkbgfrl a;grpgrbgfuubgqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgvzug soogvl 
muvnt,grbgknuzimvzxuagvl gasppkivbuagbmuf,gouvnrlxgbmufgvgizs ugvl 
sl rxuabu gfvaa;grpgvrztgvl gprlu,grbgwszrprua,giovzrprua,gvl gas.broraua
bmuf,gunulgbkguhrlvlrbrkljgg‘Bragvgbmrlxgkpgvofkabgrl rppuzulbgesvorbt;
vgnuztgsaupsogviiuaarklgbkgvgquoo-.kzlgakso,g.sbgmszbpsogvl gwuzlrirksa
bkgkbmuza;gkzgzvbmuzgvgbmrlxgkpgnuztgwzuirksagsau,gbmvbgqrooglkbgasppuz
rbauopgbkg.ugwszimvau gvbgvlgsl uzgzvbu;grlgbmugmvl gkpgakfug‘bragv
aiuwbzu,grlgbmvbgkpgkbmuzagvgpkko’ag.vs.ouj

.sbgoubgsagwzkiuu jggQmvbgxzuvbuzgnribkztg kgtksguhwuibgbmvlgbkgfvcugtksz
uluftgauugvl gclkqgbmvbgmugraglkbgv.ougbkgulikslbuzgtks?ggQmulgtksgxub
bmug.ubbuzgkpgtkszgvzxsfulb;g‘bragbzsbmgbmvbgqrla;gqmulgtksgxubgbmu
v nvlbvxugkpgpkzfgvl gfubmk ,g‘bragbmulgtksgqmkgqrljggRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvb
rl,gWovbkgvl gHulkwmklgAkizvbuag rawsbuagfkzugrlgpvnkszgkpgbmug rawsbvlba
bmvlgrlgpvnkszgkpgbmug rawsbu,gvl gfkzugbkgrlabzsibgUsbmt ufsagvl 
Wzkbvxkzvagrlgbmu,gclkqou xugkpgbmurzgrfwuzbrluliu,gbmvlgrlgbmu
rfwuzbrluliugkpgbmurzgvzbjggMugbvcuagmko gkpgbmugprzabgas.yuibgorcugklu
qmkgmvagvgfkzugwzkprbv.ougul gbmvlgbkguhwovrlgrb--lvfuot,gbkgiouvzgbmu
sl uzabvl rlxagbmvbgmugbvcuagswklgmrfgbkgrlabzsibgvl guhuziraujggBkgmslb
vpbuzgbzsbmgragwzkwuzotgkszg.sarluaa,gvl gqugvzugrluhisav.ougrpgqugivzzt
klgbmugimvaugrfwuzbrlulbotgvl groo;gbkgpvrogkpgaurdrlxgrbgragvlkbmuz
bmrlx,gpkzgqugvzug.kzlgbkgrlesrzugvpbuzgbzsbm:grbg.uoklxagbkgvgxzuvbuz
wkquzgbkgwkaauaagrbjggRbgraglkb,gvag ufkizrbsagavr ,gmr grlgbmug.kbbkfgkp
bmug uuwa,g.sbgzvbmuzguounvbu gbkgvlgrlprlrbugmurxmbgrlgbmug rnrlu
clkqou xujggBmugqkzo grag.sbgvgaimkkogkpgrlesrarbrkl:grbgraglkbgqmkgamvoo
ulbuzgbmugzrlx,g.sbgqmkgamvoogzslgbmug.uabgikszauajggMugfvtgvagquoogwovt
bmugpkkogqmkgawuvcagbzsu,gvagmugqmkgawuvcagpvoau,gpkzgqugvzugswklgbmu
fvlluz,glkbgbmugfvbbuz,gkpgawuvcrlxjgg‘Bragftgmsfkszgvagfsimgbkgzuxvz 
bmugpkzfgvagbmugas.abvliu,gvl gbmugv nkivbugvagfsimgvagbmugivsau,gva
Voir.rv uagkz uzu gqugamkso :gvl gunuztg vtgwvaagvqvtgftgbrfugrlgzuv rlx
vsbmkzagqrbmksbgvltgiklar uzvbrklgkpgbmurzgouvzlrlx;gbmurzgfvlluzgragqmvb
Rgokkcgvpbuz,glkbgbmurzgas.yuib:gVl gysabgakg kgRgmslbgvpbuzgbmu
iklnuzavbrklgkpgvltgufrlulbgqrb,glkbgbmvbgmugfvtgbuvimgfu,g.sbgbmvbgRgfvt
clkqgmrf,gvl gbmvbgclkqrlxgmrf,grpgRgbmrlcgmrfgqkzbmtgkpgrfrbvbrkl,gRgfvt
rfrbvbugmrfjggUnuztgfvlgfvtgawuvcgbzsot,g.sbgbkgawuvcgfubmk rivoot,
wzs ulbot,gvl gpsoot,gragvgbvoulbgbmvbgpuqgfulgmvnujggBmugpvoarbtgbmvb
wzkiuu agpzkfgrxlkzvliug kuaglkbgkppul gfu,g.sbgbmugpkwwuztgkpgrbjggR
mvnug.zkculgkppgaunuzvogbzuvbruaggbmvbgqkso gmvnug.uulgkpgv nvlbvxugbk
fu,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugrfwuzbrlulbgiklbuabvbrklagkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgR
bzuvbu jggRgvfglkbgfknu gkliugrlgvgtuvzgvbgbmugpvsobagkpgbmkaugknuzgqmkf
Rgmvnugvsbmkzrbt,g.sbgswklgbmugviikslbgkpgbmugzr risoksagk.abrlvitgkp
bmurzgvoouxvbrkla,g ulrvoa,guhisaua,gqugvzugunuztg vtgxkrlxgbkxubmuzg.t
bmuguvza;gbmutglurbmuzgsl uzabvl gqmvbgragavr ,glkzgqmt,gvl gvlaquz
viikz rlxot;g‘bragulksxmgbkg zrnugvgfvlgfv jggRglunuzgpuuogvltgmszbgswkl
ftgmuv g.sbgqmulg‘bragclkicu gvxvrlabgvlkbmuz,gvl gfkzuguvarotgpkzxrnu
bmugnriuagkpgftgauznvlbagbmvlgbmurzg.ko luaa,grfwkzbslrbt,gvl gpkoot;goub
bmufg kgouaa,gwzknr u gbmutgsl uzabvl gqmvbgbmutg k:gtksgornugrlgmkwugbk
qvzfgbmurzgvppuibrklgbkgtkszgauznriu,g.sbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbkg.ugmv gkz
bkg.uguhwuibu gpzkfgvgabkicj

.sbgqmvb,grpgRgbvcugbmrlxagkbmuzqraugbmvlgbmutgvzu?ggWuzmvwagRg k;gvl 
bmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgRgviisaugftgkqlgrfwvbruliu,gvl gmko ,grlgbmugprzab
woviu,gbmvbgrbgraguesvootgnrirksag.kbmgrlgmrfgbmvbgragrlgbmugzrxmb,gvl 
rlgmrfgbmvbgragrlgbmugqzklx;gpkzg‘bragvoqvtagvgbtzvllrigakszluaaglkbgbk
ul szugvgpkzfgiklbzvztgbkgklu’agkql:gvl ,g.uar ua,gbmuzugivllkb,grl
bzsbm,g.ugvgxzuvbuz,gfkzugiklabvlb,glkzgfkzugrzzuxsovzgpkootgbmvlgbkg.u
fknu gvl gvlxztgvbgbmugpkooruagkpgbmugqkzo ,gpkzgrbgwzrlirwvootgfvcuagsa
esvzzuogqrbmgkszauonua;gvl gbmugko gwmrokakwmuzglunuzgqvlbu gvlgkiivarkl
pkzgmragbuvzagqmroabgmugiklar uzu gmrfauopjggFrak,gklugkpgbmugaunul
avxua,gkpgvgBrfklrvlgvl g ufkizrbrigmsfksz,g.urlxgvacu ,gg“qmvbgmu
ovsxmu gvb,g.urlxgvoklu?”--“BmvbgRg kgovsxmgvoklu,”gvlaquzu gmujggMkq
fvltgzr risoksagbmrlxa,grlgftgkqlgkwrlrkl,g kgRgavtgvl gvlaquzgunuztg vt
bmvbgikfuagknuzgftgmuv ?ggvl gbmulgmkqgfvltgfkzu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgkbmuza?ggRpgRg.rbugftgkqlgorwa,gqmvbgksxmbgkbmuzagbkg k?ggRl
prlu,gqugfsabgornugvfklxabgbmugornrlx,gvl goubgbmugzrnuzgzslgsl uzgbmu
.zr xugqrbmksbgkszgivzu,gkz,gvbgouvab,gqrbmksbgkszgrlbuzpuzuliujggRl
bzsbm,gqmtg kgqugfuubgvgfvlgqrbmgvgmslim-.vic,gkzgvltgkbmuzg upkzfrbt,
qrbmksbg.urlxgfknu ,gvl givllkbgul szugbmugulikslbuzgkpgvg upkzfu gfrl 
qrbmksbg.urlxgvlxzt?ggbmragnrirksagakszluaagabricagfkzugbkgbmugys xugbmvl
bkgbmugizrfujggOubgsagvoqvtagmvnugbmragavtrlxgkpgWovbkgrlgkszgfksbma:g“ k
lkbgRgbmrlcgbmrlxagslaksl ,g.uivsaugRgvfglkbgaksl grlgftauop?ggVfgRglkb
ftauopgrlgpvsob?ggfvtglkbgftgk.auznvbrklagzupouibgswklgftauop?”--vgqrau
vl g rnrlugavtrlx,gbmvbgovamuagbmugfkabgslrnuzavogvl gikffklguzzkzgkp
fvlcrl jggLkbgklotgbmugzuwzkvimuagbmvbgqugbmzkqgrlgbmugpviugkpgklu
vlkbmuz,g.sbgkszgzuvaklagvoak,gkszgvzxsfulbagvl giklbzknuzarua,gvzu
zu.ksl v.ougswklgsa,gvl gqugqksl gkszauonuagqrbmgkszgkqlgquvwkla:gkp
qmrimgvlbresrbtgmvagoupbgfugulksxmgxzvnuguhvfwouajggRbgqvagrlxulrksaot
vl gmkfu-avr g.tgmrf,gqmkgqvagbmugrlnulbkzgkpgbmragaulbuliu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Abuzisagisresugassfg.ulugkoubj”

gggggggggg[“Bkgunuztgfvlgmragkqlguhizufulbagafuoogquooj”--Uzvafsa]

Qugauuglkbmrlxg.umrl gsa;gqugfkicgkszauonuagvlgmsl zu gbrfuagvg vt;gqmul
qug uzr ugkszglurxm.ksza;gvl gqug ubuabgrlgkbmuzagbmug upuibagqmrimgvzu
fkzugfvlrpuabgrlgsa,gvl gqmrimgqugv frzugqrbmgfvznuooksagrlv nuzbulitgvl 
rfws uliujggRbgqvag.sbgtuabuz vtgbmvbgRgmuvz gvgfvlgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgvl 
kpgxkk gzvlc,gvagwouvavlbotgvagysabotgaikpprlxgvbgbmugpkootgkpgvlkbmuz,
qmkg r glkbmrlxg.sbgbkzfulbgunuzt.k tgqrbmgbmugivbvokxsugkpgmragxuluvokxt
vl gvoorvliua,gv.knugmvopgkpgbmufgpvoaug(pkzgbmutgvzugfkabgvwbgbkgpvoo
rlbkgasimgzr risoksag raikszaua,gqmkaugesvorbruagvzugfkabg s.rksagvl 
ouvabgaszu),gvl gtub,gqkso gmugmvnugokkcu grlbkgmrfauop,gmugqkso gmvnu
 raiuzlu gmrfauopgbkg.uglkgouaagrlbufwuzvbugvl gquvzrakfugrlguhbkoorlx
mragqrpu’agwu rxzuujggKgrfwkzbslvbugwzuasfwbrkl,gqrbmgqmrimgbmugqrpugauua
muzauopgvzfu g.tgbmugmvl agkpgmuzgkqlgmsa.vl jgg r gmugsl uzabvl gOvbrl,
qugamkso gavtgbkgmrf:

gggggggggg“Vxu,gargmriglklgrlavlrbgavbragasvgawklbu,grlabrxvj”

ggggg[“Ikfu!ggrpgkpgmrfauopgmugraglkbgfv gulksxm,gszxugmrfgklj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gVl j,grnjg2,g9j]

Rg kglkbgavtgbmvbglkgfvlgamkso gviisaugvlkbmuz,gqmkgraglkbgiouvl
mrfauop,--pkzgbmulglkgklugqkso gunuzgviisau,--iouvlgpzkfgbmugavfugakzbgkp
awkb;g.sbgRgfuvlgbmvbgkszgys xfulb,gpvoorlxgswklgvlkbmuzgqmkgragbmulgrl
esuabrkl,gamkso glkb,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gawvzugkszauonua,g.sbgaulbuliugsa
qrbmgvlgrlqvz gvl gaunuzugvsbmkzrbtjgg‘Bragvlgkppriugkpgimvzrbt,gbmvbgmu
qmkgivllkbgzuiovrfgmrfauopgpzkfgvgnriu,gamkso ,glunuzbmuouaa,gul uvnksz
bkgzufknugrbgpzkfgvlkbmuz,grlgqmkf,gwuzv nulbszu,grbgfvtglkbgmvnugakg uuw
vl gakgfvorxlvlbgvgzkkb;glurbmuzg kgmrfgqmkgzuwzknuagfugpkzgftgpvsobgbmvb
mugmrfauopgragxsrobtgkpgbmugavfujggQmvbgkpgbmvb?ggBmugzuwzkkpgra,
lkbqrbmabvl rlx,gbzsugvl gkpgnuztgxkk gsaujggMv gqugvgxkk glkau,gkszgkql
kz szugqkso gabrlcgqkzaugbkgsa,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgragkszgkql:gvl gAkizvbua
ragkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgqmkunuzgamkso gprl gmrfauop,gmragakl,gvl gvgabzvlxuz
xsrobtgkpgvltgnrkouliugvl gqzklx,gksxmbgbkg.uxrlgqrbmgmrfauop,gwzuaulb
mrfauopgprzabgbkgbmugaulbuliugkpgysabriu,gvl grfwokzu,gbkgwszxugmrfauop,
bmugvaarabvliugkpgbmugmvl gkpgbmuguhuisbrkluz;grlgbmugluhbgwoviu,gmu
amkso gwzkiuu gbkgmragakl,gvl govabot,gbkgbmugabzvlxuzjggRpgbmragwzuiuwb
auufgbkkgaunuzu,gmugksxmbgvbgouvabgbkgwzuaulbgmrfauopgbmugprzab,gbkgbmu
wslramfulbgkpgmragkqlgiklairuliuj

Bmugaulauagvzugkszgprzabgvl gwzkwuzgys xua,gqmrimgwuziurnuglkbgbmrlxag.sb
.tguhbuzlvogviir ulba;gvl g‘braglkgqkl uz,grpgrlgvoogbmugwvzbagkpgbmu
auznriugkpgkszgakirubt,gbmuzugragakgwuzwubsvogvl gslrnuzavogvgfrhbszugkp
iuzufklruagvl gaswuzprirvogvwwuvzvliua;grlakfsimgbmvbgbmug.uabgvl gfkab
uppuibsvogwvzbgkpgkszgwkorbruagbmuzurlgiklarabjgg‘Bragabroogfvlgqrbmgqmkf
qugmvnugbkg k,gkpgqmkfgbmugikl rbrklgragqkl uzpsootgikzwkzvojggOubgbmkau
qmk,gkpgbmuaugovbugtuvza,gqkso guzuibgpkzgsagasimgvgiklbufwovbrnugvl 
rffvbuzrvogvlguhuziraugkpgzuorxrkl,glkbgqkl uzgrpgbmuzug.ugakfugqmkgbmrlc
rbgmv gnvlramu gvl gfuobu gbmzksxmgbmurzgprlxuzagmv grbglkbgfkzugswmuo 
rbauopgvfklxgsagvagvgfvzc,gbrbou,gvl grlabzsfulbgkpg rnrarklgvl gpvibrkl,
bmvlg.tgrbauopjggVagrlgiklpuzuliu,gbmugxzvnrbt,gzk.u,gvl gpkzbslugkpgmrf
qmkgawuvca,gkpbbrfuagxrnuagzuwsbvbrklgbkgnvrlgvzxsfulbagvl gr ougqkz a,
rbgraglkbgbkg.ugwzuasfu g.sbgbmvbgvgfvl,gakgvbbul u gvl gpuvzu ,gmvaglkb
rlgmrfgfkzugbmvlgkz rlvztgaspprirulit;gvl gbmvbgmugbkgqmkfgbmugcrlxgmva
xrnulgakgfvltgkppriuagvl gikffraarklagvl gimvzxua,gmugakgaswuzirorksagvl 
wzks ,gmvaglkbgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugrlgmrf,gbmvlgvlkbmuzgqmkgavosbuagmrfgvb
akgxzuvbgvg rabvliu,gvl gqmkgmvaglkgufwoktfulbgvbgvoojggLkbgklotgbmu
qkz a,g.sbgbmugxzrfviuagvoakgkpgbmuaugwukwou,gvzugiklar uzu gvl gwsbgrlbk
bmugviikslb;gunuztgklugfvcrlxgrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgxrnugbmufgakfugprlugvl 
akor grlbuzwzubvbrkljggRpgbmutgabkkwgbkgbmugikffklgiklpuzuliu,gvl gbmvb
tksgkppuzgvltbmrlxg.sbgvwwzk.vbrklgvl gzunuzuliu,gbmutgbmulgclkicgtks
 kqlgqrbmgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzguhwuzruliu:gbmutgmvnugmuvz ,gbmutgmvnu
auul,gbmutgmvnug klugakgvl gak:gtksgvzugizsamu gqrbmguhvfwouajggRgamkso 
qroorlxotgbuoogbmuf,gbmvbgbmugpzsrbgkpgvgaszxukl’aguhwuzruliu,graglkbgbmu
mrabkztgkpgmragwzvibriugvl gmragzufuf.uzrlxgbmvbgmugmvagiszu gpkszgwukwou
kpgbmugwovxsugvl gbmzuugkpgbmugxksb,gslouaagmugclkqagmkqgbmuliugbk
uhbzvibgakfubmrlxgqmuzuklgbkgpkzfgmragys xfulb,gvl gbkgfvcugsagaular.ou
bmvbgmugmvagbmuliug.uikfugfkzugacroopsogrlgmragvzbjggVagrlgvgikliuzbgkp
rlabzsfulba,gqug kglkbgmuvzgvgosbu,gvgmvzwarimkz ,gkzgvgposbugvoklu,g.sb
klugulbrzugmvzfklt,gbmugzuasobgkpgvoogbkxubmuzjggRpgbzvnuogvl gkppriua
mvnugrfwzknu gbmuf,g‘bragvgwzk sibgkpgbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxgbkgfvcugrb
vwwuvzjgg‘Braglkbgulksxmgbkgzuicklguhwuzruliua,gbmutgfsabgqurxm,gakzbgvl 
 rabrogbmuf,gbkguhbzvibgbmugzuvaklagvl gikliosarklagbmutgivzztgvoklxgqrbm
bmufjggBmuzugquzuglunuzgakgfvltgmrabkzrvla:grbgra,grl uu ,gxkk gvl gkp
saugbkgzuv gbmuf,gpkzgbmutgpszlramgsagunuztqmuzugqrbmguhiuooulbgvl 
ovs v.ougrlabzsibrklagpzkfgbmugfvxvdrlugkpgbmurzgfufkzt,gqmrim,
 ks.bouaa,gragkpgxzuvbgikliuzlgbkgbmugmuowgkpgorpu;g.sbg‘braglkbgbmvbgqu
auucgpkzglkq:gquguhvfrlugqmubmuzgbmuaugzuovbuzagvl gikoouibkzagkpgbmrlxa
vzugikfful v.ougbmufauonuaj

Rgmvbugvoogakzbagkpgbtzvllt,g.kbmgrlgqkz gvl g uu jggRgvfgnuztgzuv tgbk
kwwkaugftauopgvxvrlabgbmkaugnvrlgirzisfabvliuagbmvbg uos ugkszgys xfulba
.tgbmugaulaua;gvl gcuuwrlxgftgutugiokaugswklgbmkauguhbzvkz rlvzt
xzuvbluaaua,gRgprl gbmvbgvbg.uabgbmutgvzugful,gvagkbmuzagvzu:

gggggggggg“Zvzsagulrfgpuzfugaulasagikffslragrlgroov
ggggggggggPkzbslvj”

ggggg[“Pkzgrlgbmkaugmrxmgpkzbslua,gikffklgaulaugragxuluzvootgzvzuj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,gnrrrjg73j]

Wuzv nulbszu,gquguabuufgvl gokkcgswklgbmufgpkzgouaagbmvlgbmutgvzu,g.t
zuvaklgbmutgsl uzbvcugfkzu,gvl gfkzuguhwkaugbmufauonua;gbmutg kglkb
vlaquzgbkgbmugimvzxugbmutgmvnugsl uzbvculjggBmuzugfsabg.ugfkzugnrxkszgvl 
abzulxbmgrlgbmug.uvzuzgbmvlgrlgbmug.sz ul;gmugqmkgmvaglkbgorpbu gvagfsim
vagmugivl,gouvnuagtksgbkgxsuaagbmvbgmugmvagabroogvgabzulxbmg.utkl gbmvb,
vl gbmvbgmugmvaglkbg.uulgbzru gbkgbmugsbfkabgkpgqmvbgmugragv.ougbkg k;gmu
qmkgarlcagsl uzgmragokv ,gfvcuagvg raiknuztgkpgmrag.uab,gvl gbmugquvcluaa
kpgmragamkso uzajggBmragragbmugzuvaklgbmvbgqugauugakgfvltgarootgaksoa
vfklxabgbmugouvzlu ,gvl gfkzugbmvlgbmkaugkpgbmug.ubbuzgakzb:gbmutgqkso 
mvnugfv ugxkk gmsa.vl ful,gxkk gfuzimvlba,gvl gxkk gvzbravla:gbmurz
lvbszvognrxkszgqvagisbgksbgbkgbmvbgwzkwkzbrkljggClkqou xugragvgbmrlxgkp
xzuvbgqurxmb,gbmutgpvrlbgsl uzgrb:gbmurzgsl uzabvl rlxgmvaglurbmuzgnrxksz
lkzg uhbuzrbtgulksxmgbkgaubgpkzbmgvl g rabzr.sbu,gbkgufwoktgkzgfvcugsau
kpgbmragzrimgvl gwkquzpsogfvbbuz;grbgmvaglkgwzunvrorlxgnrzbsug.sbgrlgv
abzklxglvbszu;gvl gasimglvbszuagvzugnuztgzvzu--vl gbmugquvcgklua,gavta
Akizvbua,gikzzswbgbmug rxlrbtgkpgwmrokakwmtgrlgbmugmvl orlx,grbgvwwuvza
sauouaagvl gnrirksa,gqmulgok xu grlgvlgroo-iklbzrnu gfrl jggBmutgawkro
vl gfvcugpkkoagkpgbmufauonua:

gggggggggggggg“Msfvlrgesvoragarfsovbkzgarfrsagkzra,
gggggggggggggggEsuzlgwsuzgvzzr ulagwzubrkakgabvfrlugauzsf
gggggggggggggggNuovnrb,gls vaesuglvbuagvigbuzxvgzuoresrb,
gggggggggggggggOs r.zrsfgfularaj”

ggggg[“Ysabgorcugvlgvwu,garfsovbkzgkpgbmugmsfvlgpviu,gqmkfgvgqvlbklg.kt
gggggmvag rdulu gswgrlgzrimgarocagv.knu,g.sbgoupbgbmugokquzgwvzbag.vzu,
gggggpkzgvgovsxmrlx-abkicgpkzgbmugbv.ouaj”
gggggg--Iovs rvl,grlgUsbzkwj,grg303j]

Lurbmuzgragrbgulksxmgpkzgbmkaugqmkgxknuzlgvl gikffvl gsa,gvl gmvnugvoo
bmugqkzo grlgbmurzgmvl a,gbkgmvnugvgikffklgsl uzabvl rlx,gvl gbkg.ugv.ou
bkg kgbmugavfugbmvbgqugivl;gbmutgvzugnuztgfsimg.uokqgsa,grpgbmutg.uglkb
rlprlrbuotgv.knugsa:gvagbmutgwzkfraugfkzu,gakgbmutgvzugbkgwuzpkzfgfkzuj

Vl gtubgarouliugragbkgbmuf,glkbgklotgvgikslbulvliugkpgzuawuibgvl 
xzvnrbt,g.sbgnuztgkpbulgkpgxkk gv nvlbvxugbkk:gpkzgFuxv.tdsa,gxkrlxg‘bk
auugVwuoouagrlgmragwvrlbrlx-zkkf,gabkk gvgxzuvbgqmrougqrbmksbgawuvcrlxgv
qkz ,gvl gvbgovabg.uxvlgbkgbvocgkpgmragwvrlbrlxa,gpkzgqmrimgmugzuiurnu 
bmragzs ugzuwzkkp:g“Qmroabgbmksgqvabgaroulb,gbmksgauufu abgbkg.ugakfu
xzuvbgbmrlx,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmtgimvrlagvl gzrimgmv.rb;g.sbglkqgbmvbgqugmvnu
muvz gbmuugawuvc,gbmuzugraglkbgbmugfuvluabg.ktgrlgftgqkzcamkwgbmvbg kua
lkbg uawraugbmuuj”ggBmkaugwzrliuotgkzlvfulba,gbmvbgfrxmbtgabvbu,g r glkb
wuzfrbgmrfgbkg.ugrxlkzvlbgqrbmgvgikffklgrxlkzvliu,gvl gbkgawuvc
rfwuzbrlulbotgkpgwvrlbrlx;gmugksxmbgbkgmvnugcuwbgbmraguhbuzlvogvl 
wzuasfwbrnugclkqou xug.tgarouliujggBkgmkqgfvltgpkkoramgpuookqagkpgftgbrfu
mvagvgasooulgvl garoulbgfrulgwzkiszu gbmugizu rbgkpgwzs uliugvl 
ivwvirbt!

 rxlrbruagvl gkppriuagvzugkpgluiuaarbtgiklpuzzu gfkzug.tgpkzbslugbmvl
swklgbmugviikslbgkpgfuzrb;gvl gqugvzugkpbulgbkg.ovfu,gbkgikl uflgcrlxa
qmulgbmuaugvzugfrawoviu :gklgbmugiklbzvzt,g‘bragvgqkl uzgbmutgamkso gmvnu
akgxkk gosic,gqmuzugbmuzugragakgorbbougacroo:

ggggggggggggggg“Wzrlirwraguabgnrzbsagfvhrfvglkaaugaska;”

gggggggggg[“‘Bragbmugimrupgnrzbsugkpgvgwzrliugbkgclkqgmragwukwouj”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,gnrrrjg15j]

pkzglvbszugmvaglkbgxrnulgbmufgvgarxmbgbmvbgivlguhbul gbkgakgfvltgwukwou,
bkg raiuzlgqmrimguhiuoagbmugzuab,glkzgbkgwulubzvbugrlbkgkszg.kakfa,gqmuzu
bmugclkqou xugkpgkszgqrooagvl g.uabgnvosugoruagbmutgfsabgimkkaugsag.t
iklyuibszugvl g.tgxzkwrlx;g.tgbmugpvfrot,gquvobm,gouvzlrlx,gvl gbmugnkriu
kpgbmugwukwou,gqmrimgvzugvoognuztgpuu.ougvzxsfulbajggQmkunuzgikso gprl 
ksbgvgqvtg.tgqmrimgbmutgfrxmbgys xug.tgysabriu,gvl gimkkaugfulg.tgzuvakl,
qkso ,grlgbmragklugbmrlx,guabv.oramgvgwuzpuibgpkzfgkpgxknuzlfulbj

“Vt,g.sbgmug.zksxmbgbmvbgxzuvbgvppvrzgbkgvgnuztgxkk gwvaaj”ggBmragra,
rl uu ,gbkgavtgakfubmrlx,g.sbglkbgbkgavtgulksxm:gpkzgbmragaulbuliugra
ysabotgzuiurnu ,g“Bmvbgqugvzuglkbgbkgys xugkpgikslauoag.tgunulbaj”
gBmugIvzbmvxrlrvlagwslramu gbmugroogikslauoagkpgbmurzgivwbvrla,gbmksxm
bmutgquzugzuibrpru g.tgvgasiiuaapsograasu;gvl gbmugZkfvlgwukwougkpbul
 ulru gvgbzrsfwmgpkzgxzuvbgvl gnuztgv nvlbvxuksagnribkzruag.uivsaugbmu
ikl sibgkpgbmurzgxuluzvogqvaglkbgvlaquzv.ougbkgmragxkk gpkzbsluj
Qugkz rlvzrotgauu,grlgbmugvibrklagkpgbmugqkzo ,gbmvbgPkzbslu,gbkgamuq
sagmuzgwkquzgrlgvoogbmrlxa,gvl gqmkgbvcuagvgwzr ugrlgv.vbrlxgksz
wzuasfwbrkl,gauurlxgamugikso glkbgfvcugpkkoagqrau,gmvagfv ugbmuf
pkzbslvbugrlgufsovbrklgkpgnrzbsu;gvl gfkabgpvnkszagbmkaugkwuzvbrklagbmu
qu.gkpgqmrimgragfkabgwszuotgmuzgkql;gqmuliugrbgragbmvbgbmugarfwouab
vfklxabgsag.zrlxgbkgwvaagxzuvbg.sarluaa,g.kbmgws.origvl gwzrnvbu;gvl ,
vagAurzvflua,gbmugWuzarvl,gvlaquzu gbmkaugqmkgqkl uzu gbmvbgmragvppvrza
asiiuu u gakgroo,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgmrag uor.uzvbrklagquzugakgqrau,g“bmvb
mugqvagakougfvabuzgkpgmrag uarxla,g.sbgbmvbgasiiuaagqvagqmkootgrlgbmu
wkquzgkpgpkzbslu”;ggbmuaugfvtgvlaquzgbmugavfu,g.sbgqrbmgvgiklbzvztgbszlj
Fkabgqkzo otgvppvrzagvzugwuzpkzfu g.tgbmufauonua

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Pvbvgnrvfgrlnulrslb;”

gggggggggg[“Bmug uabrlruagprl gbmugqvtj”--VUlur ,grrrjg395]

bmugunulbgkpbulgysabrpruagvgnuztgpkkoramgikl sib;gkszgrlbuzwkarbrklgra
orbbougfkzugbmvlgvagrbgquzugvgzsllrlxgklg.tgzkbu,gvl gfkzugikffklotgv
iklar uzvbrklgkpgisabkfgvl guhvfwou,gbmvlgkpgzuvakljgg.urlxgpkzfuzot
vabklramu gvbgbmugxzuvbluaagkpgakfugvppvrz,gRgmvnug.uulgfv ugviesvrlbu 
qrbmgbmurzgfkbrnuagvl gv  zuaag.tgbmkaugqmkgmv gwuzpkzfu grb,gvl gmvnu
pksl glkbmrlxgrlgrbg.sbgnuztgkz rlvztgikslauoa;gvl gbmugfkabgikffklgvl 
sasvogvzugrl uu ,gwuzmvwa,gbmugfkabgaszugvl giklnulrulbgpkzgwzvibriu,grp
lkbgpkzgamkqjggQmvbgrpgbmugwovrluabgzuvaklagvzugbmug.uabgauvbu ?ggbmu
fuvluab,gokquab,gvl gfkabg.uvbulgfkzugv vwbu gbkgvppvrza?ggBkgfvrlbvrl
bmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmugikslauoagkpgcrlxa,grbgluu aglkbgbmvbgwzkpvlugwuzakla
amkso gwvzbrirwvbugkpgbmuf,gkzgauugpszbmuzgrlbkgbmufgbmvlgbmugksbfkab
.vzzruz;gmugqmkgqroogmsa.vl grbagzuwsbvbrklgfsabg.ugzunuzuliu gswkl
izu rbgvl gbvculgvobkxubmuzjggFtgiklasobvbrklgakfuqmvbgzksxm-muqagbmu
fvbbuz,gvl giklar uzagrbgorxmbotg.tgbmugprzabgpviugrbgwzuaulba:gbmu
abzuaagvl gfvrlgkpgbmug.sarluaagRgmvnug.uulgqklbgbkgzupuzgbkgmuvnul;

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Wuzfrbbug rnragivubuzvj”

gggggggggg[“Ouvnugbmugzuabgbkgbmugxk aj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grjgg9,g9j]

Xkk gvl groogpkzbslugvzu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbqkgaknuzurxlgwkquza;g‘bragpkoot
bkgbmrlcgbmvbgmsfvlgwzs uliugivlgwovtgbmugwvzbgkpgPkzbslu;gvl gnvrlgra
mragvbbufwbgqmkgwzuasfuagbkgikfwzumul g.kbmgivsauagvl giklauesuliua,gvl 
.tgbmugmvl gbkgikl sibgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmrag uarxl;gvl gfkabguawuirvoot
nvrlgrlgbmug uor.uzvbrklagkpgqvzjggBmuzugqvaglunuzgxzuvbuzgirzisfawuibrkl
vl gfrorbvztgwzs uliugbmvlgakfubrfuagragauulgvfklxabgsa:givlgrbg.ugbmvb
fulgvzugvpzvr gbkgokaugbmufauonuag.tgbmugqvt,gbmvbgbmutgzuauznu
bmufauonuagbkgbmugul gkpgbmugxvfu?ggRgfkzuknuzgvpprzfgbmvbgkszgqra kf
rbauopgvl giklasobvbrkl,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgikffrbgbmufauonuagbkgbmu
ikl sibgkpgimvliu;gftgqroogvl gftgzuvaklgvzugakfubrfuagfknu g.tgklu
.zuvbm,gvl gakfubrfuag.tgvlkbmuz;gvl gfvltgkpgbmuaugfknufulbagbmuzugvzu
bmvbgxknuzlgbmufauonuagqrbmksbgfu:gftgzuvaklgmvagsliuzbvrlgvl givasvo
vxrbvbrklagvl grfwsoarkla:

ggggggggg“Nuzbslbszgawuiruagvlrfkzsf,gubgwuibkzvgfkbsa
ggggggggggLsligvorka,gvorka,g sfgls.rovgnulbsagvxu.vb,
ggggggggggIklirwrslbj”

ggggg[“Bmugvawuibagkpgbmurzgfrl agimvlxu;gvl gbmutgikliurnuglkqgasim
gggggr uva,glkqgasim,gysabgakgoklxgvagbmugqrl gvxrbvbu gbmugioks aj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjgg42j]

Oubgvgfvlg.sbgk.auznugqmkgvzugkpgxzuvbuabgvsbmkzrbtgrlgirbrua,gvl gqmk
.uabg kgbmurzgkqlg.sarluaa;gqugamvoogprl gbmvbgbmutgvzugikffklotgfulgkp
bmugouvabgwvzba:gqkful,gimro zul,gvl gfv fulgmvnugmv gbmugpkzbslugbk
xknuzlgxzuvbgcrlx kfaguesvootgquoogqrbmgbmugqrauabgwzrliua,gvl 
Bmsit r uagavta,gbmvbgbmugabswr gfkzugkz rlvzrotg kgrbgbmvlgbmkaugkp
.ubbuzgsl uzabvl rlxa;gqugvbbzr.sbugbmuguppuibagkpgbmurzgxkk gpkzbslugbk
bmurzgwzs uliu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“SbgesraesugPkzbslvgsbrbsz,
ggggggggggRbvgwzvuiuooub;gvbesuguhrl ugavwuzugroosfgkfluag rirfsa;”

ggggg[“MugfvcuagmragqvtgqmkgclkqagmkqgbkgsaugPkzbslu,gvl gbmuzuswklgqu
gggggvoogivoogmrfgqrauj”--Wovsbsa,gWaus koj,grrjg3,g13j]

qmuzupkzugRgavtgslzuauznu ot,gunulbagvzugvgnuztgwkkzgbuabrfkltgkpgksz
qkzbmgvl gwvzbaj

Lkq,gRgqvagswklgbmragwkrlb,gbmvbgbmuzugluu aglkgfkzug.sbgbkgauugvgfvl
wzkfkbu gbkg rxlrbt;gbmksxmgqugcluqgmrfg.sbgbmzuug vtag.upkzugvgfvlgkp
orbbougzuxvz ,gtubgvlgrfvxugkpgxzvl uszgkpgaspprirulitgrlaular.otgabuvoa
rlbkgkszgkwrlrkl,gvl gqugwuzasv ugkszauonuagbmvb,g.urlxgvsxfulbu grl
zuwsbvbrklgvl gbzvrl,gmugragvoakgrlizuvau grlgfuzrb;gqugys xugkpgmrf,glkb
viikz rlxgbkgmragqkzbm,g.sbgvagqug kg.tgikslbuza,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
wzuzkxvbrnugkpgmragwoviujggRpgrbgmvwwulgakgbmvbgmugpvoogvxvrl,gvl g.u
frhu gqrbmgbmugikffklgizkq ,gunuztgklugrlesrzuagqrbmgvfvdufulbgrlbkgbmu
ivsaugkpgmragmvnrlxg.uulgzvrau gakgmrxmjgg“Ragbmragmu,”gavtgbmut,g“qvagmu
lkgqrauzgqmulgmugqvagbmuzu?gg kgwzrliuagavbraptgbmufauonuagqrbmgak
orbbou?ggBzsot,gqugquzugrlgxkk gmvl aj”ggBmragragvgbmrlxgbmvbgRgmvnu
kpbulgauulgrlgftgbrfujggLvt,gunulgbmugnuztg raxsraugkpgxzvl usz
zuwzuaulbu grlgkszgikfu ruagrlgakfugakzbgfknuagvl gxsooagsajggBmvbgqmrim
Rgftauopgv kzugrlgcrlxagragbmugizkq gkpgbmurzgv kzuza;gvoogzunuzuliugvl 
as.fraarklgvzug sugbkgbmuf,guhiuwbgbmvbgkpgbmugsl uzabvl rlx:gftgzuvakl
raglkbgk.orxu gbkg.kqgvl g.ul ;gftgcluuagvzujggFuovlbmrsag.urlxgvacu 
qmvbgmugbmksxmbgkpgbmugbzvxu tgkpg rkltarsa,g“Rgikso glkbgauugrb,”gavr 
mu,g“rbgqvagakgioks u gqrbmgovlxsvxu”;gakgfkabgkpgbmkaugqmkgys xugkpgbmu
 raikszauagkpgxzuvbgfulgksxmbgbkgavt,g“Rg r glkbgsl uzabvl gmragqkz a,
bmutgquzugakgioks u gqrbmgxzvnrbt,gxzvl usz,gvl gfvyuabtj”ggVlbrabmulua
klug vtgbzru gbkgwuzasv ugbmugVbmulrvlagbkgxrnugkz uzgbmvbgbmurzgvaaua
frxmbg.ugufwoktu grlgbroorlxgbmugxzksl gvagquoogvagbmugmkzauagquzu;gbk
qmrimgrbgqvagvlaquzu gbmvbgbmvbgvlrfvogqvaglkbg uabrlu gpkzgasimgv
auznriu:g“Bmvb’agvoogklu,”gzuworu gmu,g“tksgmvnugklotgbkgkz uzgrb:gpkz
bmugfkabgrxlkzvlbgvl grlivwv.ougfulgtksgufwoktgrlgbmugikffvl agkpgtksz
qvzagrliklbrlulbotg.uikfugqkzbmtgulksxm,g.uivsaugtksgufwoktgbmuf”;gbk
qmrimgbmugisabkfgkpgakgfvltgwukwou,gqmkgivlklraugbmugcrlxgbmutgmvnu
imkaulgksbgkpgbmurzgkqlg.k t,gvl gvzuglkbgiklbulbgklotgbkgmklksz,g.sb
fsabgv kzugbmuf,gikfuagnuztgluvzjggBmkaugkpgFuhrik,gvpbuzgbmugiuzufklrua
kpgbmurzgcrlx’agikzklvbrklgvzugknuz,g vzuglkgfkzugokkcgmrfgrlgbmugpviu;
.sb,gvagrpgbmutgmv g urpru gmrfg.tgmragzktvobtjggVfklxabgbmugkvbmagbmut
fvcugmrfgbvcugbkgfvrlbvrlgbmurzgzuorxrkl,gbmurzgovqa,gvl gor.uzbrua,gbk
.ugnvorvlb,gysab,gvl gfro ,gmugfkzuknuzgaquvzagbkgfvcugbmugaslgzslgmra
ikszaugrlgmragqklbu gorxmb,gbkg zvrlgbmugioks agvbgprbgauvakla,gbkgfvcu
zrnuzagzslgbmurzgikszau,gvl gbkgivsaugbmuguvzbmgbkg.uvzgvoogbmrlxa
luiuaavztgpkzgmragwukwouj

Rg rppuzgpzkfgbmragikffklgpvamrkl,gvl gvfgfkzugvwbgbkgasawuibgbmu
ivwvirbtgqmulgRgauugrbgviikfwvlru gqrbmgbmvbgxzvl uszgkpgpkzbslugvl 
ws.origvwwovsau;gqugvzugbkgiklar uzgkpgqmvbgv nvlbvxugrbgragbkgawuvcgqmul
vgfvlgwouvaua,gbkgimkkaugmragas.yuib,gbkgrlbuzzswbgkzgimvlxugrb,gqrbmgv
fvxrabuzrvogvsbmkzrbt;gbkgwzkbuibgmrfauopgpzkfgbmugkwwkarbrklagkpgkbmuza
.tgvglk ,gvgafrou,gkzgarouliu,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvlgvaauf.otgbmvb
bzuf.ouagqrbmgzunuzuliugvl gzuawuibjggVgfvlgkpgvgwzk rxrksagpkzbslu
ikfrlxgbkgxrnugmragys xfulbgswklgakfugaorxmbg rawsbugbmvbgqvagpkkoramot
aubgklgpkkbgvbgmragbv.ou,g.uxvlgrlgbmuaugqkz a:g“Rbgivlg.uglkgkbmuzg.sb
vgorvzgkzgvgpkkogbmvbgqroogavtgkbmuzqraugbmvlgakgvl gakj”ggWszasugbmra
wmrokakwmrivogwkrlbgqrbmgvg vxxuzgrlgtkszgmvl j

Bmuzugragvlkbmuzgk.auznvbrklgRgmvnugfv u,gpzkfgqmrimgRg zvqgxzuvb
v nvlbvxu;gqmrimgra,gbmvbgrlgiklpuzuliuagvl g rawsbua,gunuztgqkz gbmvb
auufagbkg.ugxkk ,graglkbgrffu rvbuotgbkg.ugviiuwbu jggFkabgfulgvzugzrim
rlg.kzzkqu gaspprirulit:gvgfvlgfvtgavtgvgxkk gbmrlx,gxrnugvgxkk gvlaquz,
irbugvgxkk gaulbuliu,gqrbmksbgvbgvoogauurlxgbmugpkziugkpgurbmuzgbmugklu
kzgbmugkbmuzjggBmvbgvgfvlgfvtglkbgsl uzabvl gvoogmug.kzzkqa,gfvtgwuzmvwa
.ugnuzrpru grlgftauopjggVgfvlgfsabglkbgvoqvtagwzuaulbotgtruo ,gqmvbgbzsbm
kzg.uvsbtgakunuzgfvtgauufgbkg.ugrlgbmugkwwkarbugvzxsfulb;gurbmuzgmugfsab
abksbotgfuubgrb,gkzgzubrzu,gsl uzgikokszgkpglkbgsl uzabvl rlxgrb,gbkgbzt,
klgvoogwvzba,gmkqgrbgragok xu grlgbmugvsbmkzjggRbgfvtgmvwwulgbmvbgqu
ulbvlxougkszauonua,gvl gmuowgbkgabzulxbmulgbmugwkrlbgrbauopjggRgmvnu
akfubrfua,grlgbmugluiuaarbtgvl gmuvbgkpgbmugikf.vb,gfv ugvlaquzagbmvb
mvnugxklugbmzksxmgvl gbmzksxm,g.utkl gftguhwuibvbrklgkzgmkwu;gRgklotgxvnu
bmufgrlglsf.uz,gbmutgquzugzuiurnu grlgqurxmbjggVa,gqmulgRgiklbul gqrbmgv
nrxkzksagfvl,gRgwouvaugftauopgqrbmgvlbrirwvbrlxgmragikliosarkla,gRguvau
mrfgkpgbmugbzks.ougkpguhwovrlrlxgmrfauop,gRgabzrnugbkgpkzuabvoogmra
rfvxrlvbrklgqmroabgrbgragtubgawzrlxrlxgvl grfwuzpuib;gbmugkz uzgvl 
wuzbrlulitgkpgmragsl uzabvl rlxgqvzlgvl gbmzuvbulgfugvpvzgkpp:gRg uvo
esrbugiklbzvztgqrbmgbmugkbmuza;gRgfsabgsl uzabvl ,gvl gwzuaswwkauglkbmrlx
.sbg.tgbmufjggRpgbmutg ubuzfrlugrlgxuluzvogqkz a,g“bmragragxkk ,gbmvbgra
lvsxmb,”gvl gbmvbgbmutgmvwwulgbkg.ugrlgbmugzrxmb,gauugrpgrbg.uglkb
pkzbslugbmvbgmrbagrbgkppgpkzgbmuf:goubgbmufgvgorbbougirzisfaizr.ugvl 
orfrbgbmurzgys xfulb;gqmt,gkzgmkq,grbgragakjggBmuaugslrnuzavogys xfulba
bmvbgRgauugakgikffkl,garxlrptglkbmrlx;gbmuaugvzugfulgqmkgavosbugvgqmkou
wukwougrlgvgizkq gbkxubmuz;gbmut,gqmkgmvnugvgzuvogviesvrlbvliu,gbvcu
lkbriugkpgvl gavosbugbmufgrl rnr svootgvl g.tglvfujgg.sbg‘bragvgmvdvz ksa
vbbufwb;gvl gpzkfgqmrimgRgmvnu,gfkzugbmvlgunuztg vt,gauulgrbgpvoogksb,
bmvbgquvcgsl uzabvl rlxa,gmvnrlxgvgfrl gbkgvwwuvzgrlxulrksa,grlgbvcrlx
lkbriu,gvagbmutgzuv gvg.kkc,gkpgqmvbgrag.uabgvl gfkabgbkg.ugv frzu ,gprh
bmurzgv frzvbrklgswklgakfugbmrlxgakgnuztgroogimkaul,gbmvbgrlabuv gkp
fvcrlxgsag raiuzlgbmuguhiuoouliugkpgbmugvsbmkz;gbmutgfvcugsagnuztgquoo
auugbmurzgkqlgrxlkzvliujggBmraguhiovfvbrklgragavpu,g“Bmvbgragprlu,”gvpbuz
mvnrlxgmuvz gvgqmkougwvxugkpgNrzxro;gg.tgbmvbgbmugisllrlxgakzbgavnu
bmufauonua;g.sbgbkgsl uzbvcugbkgpkookqgmrfgorlug.tgorlu,gvl ,gqrbmgvl
uhwuzbgvl gbzru gys xfulb,gbkgk.auznugqmuzugvgxkk gvsbmkzguhiuoagmrfauop,
qurxmrlxgbmugqkz a,gwmzvaua,grlnulbrkla,gvl gmragnvzrksaguhiuoouliua,gklu
vpbuzgvlkbmuz;gcuuwgvokkpgpzkfgbmvb:

ggggg“Nr ul sfguab,glklgfk kgesr gesraesugokesvbsz,gau gubrvfgesr 
gggggesraesugaulbrvb,gvbesugubrvfgesvg ugivsavgesraesugaulbrvbj”

ggggg[“Vgfvlgraglkbgklotgbkguhvfrlugqmvbgunuztgklugavta,g.sbgvoakgqmvb
gggggunuztgklugbmrlca,gvl gpzkfgqmvbgzuvaklgunuztgklugbmrlcaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKppri:,grjg41j]

Rgunuztg vtgmuvzgpkkoagavtgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkbgpkkoram:gbmutgavtgvgxkk 
bmrlx;goubgsaguhvfrlugmkqgpvzgbmutgsl uzabvl grb,gqmuliugbmutgmvnugrb,
vl gqmvbgbmutgfuvlg.tgrbjggQugmuowgbmufgbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmragprlu
uhwzuaarkl,gkpgbmragprlugaulbuliu,gqmrimgraglklugkpgbmurza;gbmutgklot
mvnugrbgrlgcuuwrlx;gbmutgmvnug.kobu grbgksbgvbgvgnulbszu;gqugwoviugrbgpkz
bmufgrlgizu rbgvl guabuufjggTksgoul gbmufgtkszgmvl jggBkgqmvbgwszwkau?
bmutg kglkbgbmrlcgbmufauonuagk.orxu gbkgtksgpkzgrb,gvl g.uikfugfkzugrluwb
abroojgg kl’bgmuowgbmuf;goubgbmufgvoklu;gbmutgqroogmvl ougbmugfvbbuzgorcu
wukwougqmkgvzugvpzvr gkpg.szlrlxgbmurzgprlxuza;gbmutg vzugimvlxuglurbmuz
rbagauvbglkzgorxmb,glkzg.zuvcgrlbkgrb;gamvcugrbglunuzgakgorbbou,grbgaorwa
bmzksxmgbmurzgprlxuza;gbmutgxrnugrbgsw,g.ugrbglunuzgakgabzklxgkzgpvrz
bmutgvzugprlugquvwkla,g.sbgroogmvpbu :gMkqgfvltgbrfuagmvnugRgauulgbmu
uhwuzruliugkpgbmra?ggLkq,grpgtksgikfugbkguhwovrlgvltbmrlxgbkgbmuf,gvl gbk
iklprzfgbmuf,gbmutgivbimgvbgrb,gvl gwzuaulbotgzk.gtksgkpgbmugv nvlbvxugkp
tkszgrlbuzwzubvbrkl;g“RbgqvagqmvbgRgqvagv.ksbgbkgavt;grbgqvagysabgft
r uv;grpgRg r glkbguhwzuaagrbgak,grbgqvagpkzgqvlbgkpgovlxsvxuj”ggFuzu
qrl !ggFvoriugrbauopgfsabg.ugufwoktu gbkgikzzuibgbmragvzzkxvlbgrxlkzvliuj
Bmug kxfvgkpgMuxuarva,g“bmvbgqugvzuglurbmuzgbkgmvbuglkzgviisau,g.sb
rlabzsib,”gragikzzuibguoauqmuzu;g.sbgmuzug‘bragrlysabriugvl grlmsfvlrbt
bkgzuorunugvl gaubgmrfgzrxmbgqmkgabvl agrlglkgluu gkl’b,gvl gragbmugqkzau
pkz’bjggRgoknugbkgoubgbmufgabuwg uuwuzgrlbkgbmugfrzu;gvl gakg uuw,gbmvb,
rpgrbg.ugwkaar.ou,gbmutgfvtgvbgovabg raiuzlgbmurzguzzkzj

Pkootgvl gv.asz rbtgvzuglkbgbkg.ugiszu g.tg.vzugv fklrbrkl;gvl gqmvb
Itzsagvlaquzu gbkgmrf,gqmkgrfwkzbslu gmrfgbkgmvzvlxsugmragvzft,gswklgbmu
wkrlbgkpg.vbbou,g“bmvbgfulg kglkbg.uikfugnvorvlbgvl gqvzorcugswklgv
as  ul,g.tgvgprlugkzvbrkl,glkgfkzugbmvlgvgfvlg.uikfuagvgxkk gfsarirvlg.t
muvzrlxgvgprlugaklx,”gfvtgwzkwuzotg.ugavr gkpgasimgvlgv fklrbrklgvagbmraj
Bmuaugvzugvwwzulbriuamrwagbmvbgvzugbkg.ugauznu g.upkzumvl ,g.tgvgoklxgvl 
iklbrlsu gu sivbrkljggQugkqugbmragivzugvl gbmragvaar srbtgkpgikzzuibrkl
vl grlabzsibrklgbkgkszgkqlgwukwou;g.sbgbkgxkgwzuvimgbkgbmugprzab
wvaauz-.t,gvl gbkg.uikfugbsbkzgbkgbmugrxlkzvliugvl gpkootgkpgbmugprzabgqu
fuub,gragvgbmrlxgbmvbgRgv.mkzjggRgzvzuotg kgrb,gunulgrlgwzrnvbu
iklnuzavbrkl,gvl gzvbmuzgxrnugswgbmugqmkougbmrlxgbmvlgwzkiuu gbkgbmuau
rlrbrvbkztgvl gaimkkogrlabzsibrkla;gftgmsfkszgragslprbgurbmuzgbkgawuvcgkz
qzrbugpkzg.uxrlluza;g.sbgpkzgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugavr grlgikffklg raikszau,gkz
vfklxabgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gRglunuzgkwwkaugbmufgurbmuzg.tgqkz gkzgarxl,gmkq
pvoaugkzgv.asz gakunuzj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,glkbmrlxgnuhuagfugakgfsimgrlgpkootgvagbmvbgrbgragfkzu
avbrapru gqrbmgrbauopgbmvlgvltgzuvaklgivlgzuvaklv.otg.ujgg‘Bra
slpkzbslvbugbmvbgwzs uliugpkz.r agsagbkgavbraptgvl gbzsabgkszauonua,
vl gvoqvtag rafraauagsagbrfkzksagvl g raiklbulbu ;gqmuzuvagk.abrlvitgvl 
bufuzrbtgproogbmkaugqmkgvzugwkaauaau gqrbmgbmufgqrbmgyktgvl gvaaszvliuj
‘Bragpkzgbmugfkabgrxlkzvlbgbkgokkcgvbgkbmuzgfulgknuzgbmugamkso uz,gvoqvta
zubszlrlxgpzkfgbmugikf.vbgpsoogkpgyktgvl gbzrsfwmjggVl gfkzuknuz,gpkzgbmu
fkabgwvzb,gbmragvzzkxvliugkpgawuuimgvl gxvrubtgkpgikslbulvliugxrnuagbmuf
bmug.ubbuzgkpgrbgrlgbmugkwrlrklgkpgbmugvs ruliu,gqmrimgragikffklotgquvc
vl grlivwv.ougkpgquoogys xrlxgvl g raiuzlrlxgbmugzuvogv nvlbvxuj
K.abrlvitgkpgkwrlrklgvl gmuvbgrlgvzxsfulbgvzugbmugaszuabgwzkkpagkpgpkoot;
ragbmuzugvltbmrlxgakgvaaszu ,gzuakosbu,g ra vrlpso,giklbufwovbrnu,
auzrksagvl gxzvnugvagbmugvaa?

Fvtgquglkbgrlios ugsl uzgbmugbrbougkpgiklpuzuliugvl gikffslrivbrklgbmu
esricgvl gamvzwgzuwvzbuuagqmrimgfrzbmgvl gpvfrorvzrbtgrlbzk siugvfklxab
pzrul a,gwouvavlbotgvl gqrbbrotgyuabrlxgvl gzvootrlxgqrbmgklugvlkbmuz?
‘Bragvlguhuziraugpkzgqmrimgftglvbszvogxvrubtgzul uzagfugprbgulksxm,gvl 
qmrim,grpgrbg.uglkbgakgbulaugvl gauzrksagvagbmugkbmuzgRgawkcugkpg.sbglkq,
ra,gvagOtiszxsagbmksxmb,glkgouaagafvzbgvl grlxulrksa,glkzgkpgouaa
sbrorbtjggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgiklbzr.sbugbkgrbgfkzugor.uzbtgbmvlgqrb,gvl gmvnu
bmuzurlgfkzugkpgosicgbmvlgrlnulbrkl;g.sbgRgvfgwuzpuibgrlgasppuzrlx,gpkzgR
ul szugvgzubvorvbrklgbmvbgraglkbgklotgbvzb,g.sbgrl raizuubgbkg.kkb,
qrbmksbg.urlxgfknu gvbgvoo;gvl gqmkunuzgvbbvicagfu,grpgRgmvnuglkbgvg.zrac
vlaquzgrffu rvbuotgzuv t,gRg kglkbgabs tgbkgwszasugbmugwkrlbgqrbmgv
bu rksagvl grfwuzbrlulbgiklbuab,g.kz uzrlxgswklgk.abrlvit,g.sbgoubgrb
wvaa,gvl gmvlxrlxg kqlgimuuzpsootgftguvza,g upuzgftgzunulxugbkgvlkbmuz
vl g.ubbuzgbrfu:gbmuzugraglkgfuzimvlbgbmvbgvoqvtagxvrla:gFkabgfulgimvlxu
bmurzgikslbulvliugvl gbmurzgnkriugqmuzugbmurzgqrbagpvro,gvl g.tgvl
slauvaklv.ougvlxuz,grlabuv gkpgzunulxrlxgbmufauonua,gviisaugvbgkliugbmurz
kqlgpkootgvl grfwvbruliujggRlgbmragykoorbt,gqugakfubrfuagwrlimgbmugauizub
abzrlxagkpgkszgrfwuzpuibrklagqmrim,gvbgvlkbmuzgvl gxzvnuzgbrfu,gqugivllkb
bksimgqrbmksbgkppuliu,gvl gakgwzkprbv.otgxrnugklugvlkbmuzgvgmrlbgkpgksz
 upuibajggBmuzugvzugkbmuzgyushg ugfvrl,--[wzvibrivogykcua]--zs ugvl 
rl raizuub,gvpbuzgbmugPzulimgfvlluz,gbmvbgRgfkzbvootgmvbu;gftgacrlgra
nuztgbul uzgvl gaular.ou:gRgmvnugrlgftgbrfugauulgbqkgwzrliuagkpgbmug.okk 
.szru gswklgbmvbgnuztgviikslbjgg‘Bragslmvl akfugbkgprxmbgrlgwovtjggVagbk
bmugzuab,gqmulgRgmvnugvgfrl gbkgys xugkpgvltgklu,gRgvacgmrfgmkqgpvzgmugra
iklbulbu gqrbmgmrfauop;gbkgqmvbg uxzuugmragawuvcrlxgkzgmragqkzcgwouvaua
mrfjggRgqrooglklugkpgbmuaugprluguhisaua,g“Rg r grbgklotgrlgawkzb,

ggggggggggggggg‘V.ovbsfgfu rragkwsaguabgrlis r.sagrabs j’

gggggggggg[“Bmvbgqkzcgqvagbvculgpzkfgbmugvlnrogmvopgprlramu j”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grjg6,g29j]

Rgqvaglkbgvlgmkszgv.ksbgrb:gRgmvnuglunuzgokkcu gvbgrbgarliuj”ggQuoo,
bmul,gavtgR,govtgbmuaugvar u,gvl gxrnugfugvgwuzpuibgklu,gasimgvagtks
qkso g.ugfuvaszu g.tjggVl gbmul,gqmvbg kgtksgbmrlcgragbmug.uabgbmrlxgrl
tkszgqkzc?gragrbgbmragwvzbgkzgbmvb?gragrbgxzviugkzgbmugfvbbuz,gbmu
rlnulbrkl,gbmugys xfulb,gkzgbmugouvzlrlx?ggPkzgRgprl gbmvbgfulgvzu,
ikffklot,gvagqr ugkpgbmugfvzcgrlgys xrlxgkpgbmurzgkqlgqkzca,gvagkpgbmkau
kpgkbmuza;glkbgklotg.tgzuvaklgkpgbmugcrl luaagbmutgmvnugpkzgbmuf,g.sbgpkz
qvlbgkpgivwvirbtgbkgclkqgvl g rabrlxsramgbmuf:gbmugqkzc,g.tgrbagkqlgpkziu
vl gpkzbslu,gfvtgauikl gbmugqkzcfvl,gvl gakfubrfuagksbabzrwgmrf,g.utkl 
mragrlnulbrklgvl gclkqou xujggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgys xugkpgbmugnvosugkpgkbmuz
ful’agqkzcagfkzugk.aiszuotgbmvlgkpgftgkql;gvl gwoviugbmugUaavta,glkq
mrxm,gkzgokq,gqrbmgxzuvbg ks.bgvl grliklabvlitjggBmuzugvzugaunuzvog.kkca
bmvbgvzugsaupsogswklgbmugviikslbgkpgbmurzgas.yuiba,gpzkfgqmrimgbmugvsbmkz
 uzrnuaglkgwzvrau;gvl gxkk g.kkca,gvagquoogvagxkk gqkzca,gbmvbgamvfugbmu
qkzcfvljggRgfvtgqzrbugbmugfvlluzgkpgkszgpuvaba,gvl gbmugpvamrklgkpgksz
iokbmua,gvl gfvtgqzrbugbmufgroo;gRgfvtgws.oramgbmugu ribagkpgftgbrfu,gvl 
bmugoubbuzagkpgwzrliuagbmvbgwvaagpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl ;gRgfvtgfvcugvl
v.zr xfulbgkpgvgxkk g.kkcg(vl gunuztgv.zr xfulbgkpgvgxkk g.kkcgragv
pkkoramgv.zr xfulb),gqmrimg.kkcgamvoogikfugbkg.ugokab;gvl gakgkl:
wkabuzrbtgqroog uzrnugvgarlxsovzgsbrorbtgpzkfgasimgikfwkarbrkla:g.sbgqmvb
mklkszgamvoogRgmvnugslouaag.tgxzuvbgxkk gpkzbslu?ggFkabgwvzbgkpgbmu
pvfksag.kkcagvzugkpgbmragikl rbrklj

QmulgRgzuv gWmrorwg ugIkffrlua,g ks.bouaagvgnuztgxkk gvsbmkz,gaunuzvo
tuvzagvxk,gRgbmuzugbkkcglkbriugkpgbmragpkzglkgnsoxvzgavtrlx,g“Bmvbgvgfvl
fsabgmvnugvgivzuglkbgbkg kgmragfvabuzgakgxzuvbgauznriu,gbmvbgvbgovabgmu
qrooglkbgclkqgmkqgbkgxrnugmrfgmragysabgzuqvz ”;g.sbgRgksxmbgbkgikfful 
bmugrlnulbrkl,glkbgmrf,g.uivsaugRgfubgqrbmgrbgrlgBvirbsa,glkbgoklxgarliu:

ggggggggg“.uluprirvguvgsaesugohbvgaslb,g sfgnr ulbszguhakonrgwkaau;
ggggggggggs.rgfsobsfgvlbunuluzu,gwzkgxzvbragk rsfgzu  rbsz;”

ggggg[“.uluprbagvzugakgpvzgviiuwbv.ougvagbmutgvwwuvzgbkg.ugivwv.ougkp
gggggzuikfwulau;gqmuzugbmutgfsimguhiuu gbmvbgwkrlb,gmvbzu gragzubszlu 
gggggrlabuv gkpgbmvlcaj”--Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,grnjg18j]

vl gAuluivgnrxkzksaotgavta:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lvfgesrgwsbvbguaaugbszwuglklgzu  uzu,
gggggggggggggggggggglklgnsobguaaugisrgzu  vb:”

ggggg[“Pkzgmugqmkgbmrlcagrbgvgamvfuglkbgbkgzuesrbu,g kuaglkbgqramgbk
gggggmvnugbmugfvlgornugbkgqmkfgmugkquagzubszlj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g81j]

EjgIriuzkgavtagqrbmgouaag rzuibluaaj:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esrgauglklgwsbvbgavbrapviuzu,
ggggggggggggggggggggvfrisaguaauglsookgfk kgwkbuabj”

ggggg[“Qmkgbmrlcagmrfauopg.umrl grlgk.orxvbrkl,givlg.tglk
gggggfuvlag.ugvgpzrul j”--EjgIriuzk,g ugWubrbrklugIklaso,gijg9j]

Bmugas.yuib,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgrbgra,gfvtgfvcugvgfvlgokkcu gswklgva
ouvzlu gvl gkpgxkk gfufkzt;g.sbgbkgys xugrlgmrfgbmugwvzbagbmvbgvzugfkab
mragkqlgvl gbmugfkabgqkzbmt,gbmugnrxkszgvl g.uvsbtgkpgmragakso,gklugfsab
przabgclkqgqmvbgragmragkqlgvl gqmvbgraglkb;gvl grlgbmvbgqmrimgraglkbgmra
kql,gmkqgfsimgqugvzugk.orxu gbkgmrfgpkzgbmugimkriu,g rawkarbrkl,
kzlvfulb,gvl govlxsvxugmugmvagbmuzugwzuaulbu gsagqrbmjggQmvbgrpgmugmva
.kzzkqu gbmugfvbbuzgvl gawkrou gbmugpkzf,gvagrbgkpbulgpvooagksb?ggQu,gqmk
vzugorbbougzuv grlg.kkca,gvzugrlgbmragabzvrb,gbmvbgqmulgqugfuubgqrbmgv
mrxmgpvlitgrlgakfugluqgwkub,gkzgakfugabzklxgvzxsfulbgrlgvgwzuvimuz,gqu
 vzuglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gikfful grbgbroogqugmvnugprzabgrlpkzfu gkszauonua,
bmzksxmgakfugouvzlu gfvl,grpgrbg.ugbmugqzrbuz’agqrbgkzg.kzzkqu gpzkfgakfu
kbmuz;gslbrogbmvbgRgvoqvtagabvl gswklgftgxsvz j

Rgmvnugovbuotg.uulgzuv rlxgbmugmrabkztgkpgBvirbsagesrbugbmzksxm,gqrbmksb
rlbuzzswbrlxgrbgqrbmgvltbmrlxguoaug(qmrimg.sbgauo kfgmvwwulagqrbmgfu,grb
.urlxgbqulbtgtuvzagarliugRgmvnugcuwbgbkgvltgklug.kkcgvlgmkszgbkxubmuz),
vl gRg r grbgvbgbmugrlabvliugkpgvgxulboufvlgpkzgqmkfgPzvliugmvagvgxzuvb
uabuuf,gvagquoogpkzgmragkqlgwvzbrisovzgqkzbm,gvagswklgbmugviikslbgkpgv
iklabvlbgpkzfgkpgivwvirbtgvl gnrzbsugqmrimgzslagbmzksxmgvgxzuvbgfvlt
.zkbmuzagkpgbmufjggRg kglkbgclkqgvltgvsbmkzgrlgvgws.origlvzzvbrnugqmk
frhuagakgfsimgiklar uzvbrklgkpgfvlluzagvl gwvzbrisovzgrliorlvbrkla:gvl gR
vfgkpgvgesrbugiklbzvztgkwrlrklgbkgmrf,gmko rlxgbmvb,gmvnrlxguawuirvootgbk
pkookqgbmugornuagkpgbmugufwuzkzagkpgmragbrfu,gakgnvzrksagvl guhbzufugrl
voogakzbagkpgpkzfa,gakgfvltglkbv.ougvibrklagvagbmurzgizsuobtguawuirvoot
wzk siu grlgbmurzgas.yuiba,gmugmv gvgabzklxuzgvl gfkzugvbbzvibrnugfvbbuz
bkgbzuvbgkpgbmvlgrpgmugmv gmv gbkg uaizr.ug.vbbouagvl gslrnuzavo
ikffkbrkla;gakgbmvbgRgkpbulgprl gmrfgabuzrou,gzsllrlxgknuzgbmkaug.zvnu
 uvbmagvagrpgmugpuvzu gbkgbzks.ougsagqrbmgbmurzgfsobrbs ugvl goulxbmj
Bmragpkzfgkpgmrabkztgrag.tgfsimgbmugfkabgsaupso;gws.origfknufulbag uwul 
fkabgswklgbmugikl sibgkpgpkzbslu,gwzrnvbugkluagswklgkszgkqljgg‘Bragzvbmuz
vgys xfulbgbmvlgvglvzzvbrklgkpgmrabkzt;gbmuzugvzugrlgrbgfkzugwzuiuwba
bmvlgabkzrua:grbgraglkbgvg.kkcgbkgzuv ,g‘bragvg.kkcgbkgabs tgvl gouvzl;
‘bragpsoogkpgaulbulbrksagkwrlrkla,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx;g‘bragvglszauztgkp
ubmrigvl gwkorbrig raikszaua,gpkzgbmugsaugvl gkzlvfulbgkpgbmkaugqmkgmvnu
vltgwoviugrlgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgbmugqkzo jggMugvoqvtagvzxsuag.tgabzklxgvl 
akor gzuvakla,gvpbuzgvgwkrlbu gvl gas.bougfvlluz,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
vppuibu gabtougkpgbmvbgvxu,gqmrimgqvagakgrlgoknugqrbmgvlgrlpovbu gfvlluz,
bmvbgqmuzugwkrlbgvl gas.boubtgquzugqvlbrlxgrlgbmrlxagrbgaswworu gbmuau
qrbmgokpbtgvl gaquoorlxgqkz ajgg‘BraglkbgfsimgslorcugbmugabtougkpgAuluiv:
RgokkcgswklgBvirbsagvagfkzugarluqt,gvl gAuluivgvagfkzugamvzwjggMragwul
auufagfkabgwzkwuzgpkzgvgbzks.ou gvl garicgabvbu,gvagkszagvbgwzuaulbgra;
tksgqkso gkpbulgavtgbmvbgmugwvrlbagvl gwrlimuagsaj

Bmutgqmkg ks.bgmragxkk gpvrbmgaspprirulbotgviisaugbmufauonuagkpg.urlxgmra
uluftgswklgakfugkbmuzgviikslbjggMragkwrlrklagvzugaksl ,gvl gouvlgbkgbmu
zrxmbgar ugrlgbmugZkfvlgvppvrzajggVl gtubgRgvfgvlxztgvbgmrfgpkzgys xrlx
fkzugaunuzuotgkpgWkfwutgbmvlgiklarabagqrbmgbmugkwrlrklgkpgbmkaugqkzbmt
fulgqmkgornu grlgbmugavfugbrfu,gvl gmv g uvorlxagqrbmgmrf;gvl gbkgmvnu
zuwsbu gmrfgklgvgwvzgqrbmgFvzrsagvl gAtoov,guhiuwbrlxgbmvbgmugqvagfkzu
iokaujggKbmuzgqzrbuzagmvnuglkbgviesrbbu gmragrlbulbrklgrlgbmugxknuzlfulb
kpgvppvrzagpzkfgvf.rbrklgvl gzunulxu;gvl gunulgmragpzrul agquzugvpzvr 
bmvbgnribkztgqkso gmvnugbzvlawkzbu gmrfg.utkl gbmug.ksl agkpgzuvakl,g.sb
lkbgbkgakgrffuvaszv.ougvg uxzuugvagbmurza;glkbmrlxgrlgmragorpugbmzuvbulu 
asimguhwzuaagizsuobtgvl gbtzvlltjggLurbmuzgksxmbgqugbkgaubgasawrirkl
vxvrlabgunr uliu;gvl gbmuzupkzugRg kglkbg.uorunugWosbvzimgrlgbmragfvbbuzj
Bmvbgmraglvzzvbrklagquzugxulsrlugvl gabzvrxmbpkzqvz gfvt,gwuzmvwa,g.u
vzxsu gpzkfgbmragnuztgbmrlx,gbmvbgbmutg kglkbgvoqvtagvwwotgbkgbmu
ikliosarklagkpgmragys xfulba,gqmrimgmugpkookqagviikz rlxgbkgbmug.rvagmu
mvagbvcul,gnuztgkpbulg.utkl gbmugfvbbuzgmugwzuaulbagsagqrbmvo,gqmrimgmu
mvaglkbg urxlu gbkgvobuzgrlgbmugouvabg uxzuujggMugluu aglkguhisaugpkz
mvnrlxgvwwzknu gbmugzuorxrklgkpgmragbrfu,gviikz rlxgvagbmugovqagulykrlu ,
vl gbkgmvnug.uulgrxlkzvlbgkpgbmugbzsu;gbmragqvagmragfrapkzbslu,glkbgmra
pvsobj

Rgmvnugwzrlirwvootgiklar uzu gmragys xfulb,gvl gvfglkbgnuztgquoo
avbrapru gbmuzuqrbmgbmzksxmksb;gvagbmuaugqkz agrlgbmugoubbuzgbmvb
Br.uzrsa,gko gvl garic,gaulbgbkgbmugaulvbujg“QmvbgamvoogRgqzrbugbkgtks,
arza,gkzgmkqgamkso gRgqzrbugbkgtks,gkzgqmvbgamkso gRglkbgqzrbugbkgtksgvb
bmragbrfu?ggFvtgbmugxk agvl gxk  uaauagovtgvgqkzaugwslramfulbgswklgfu
bmvlgRgvfgunuztg vtgbkzfulbu gqrbm,grpgRgclkq!”ggRg kglkbgauugqmtgmu
amkso gakgwkarbrnuotgvwwotgbmufgbkgvgamvzwgzufkzaugbmvbgbkzfulbu gbmu
iklairuliugkpgBr.uzrsa;gvbgouvab,gqmulgRgqvagrlgbmugavfugikl rbrkl,gR
wuziurnu glkgasimgbmrlxj

Vl gbmragvoakgauufu gbkgfugvgorbbougfuvlgrlgmrfgbmvb,gmvnrlxgbkgavtgbmvb
mugmv g.kzlugvlgmklkszv.ougkppriugrlgZkfu,gmuguhisauagmrfauopgbmvbgmu
 kuaglkbgavtgrbgksbgkpgkabulbvbrkl;gbmragauufa,gRgavt,gfuvlgpkzgasimgv
aksogvagmra;gpkzglkbgbkgawuvcgzksl otgkpgvgfvl’agauopgrfworuagakfugqvlb
kpgikszvxu;gvgfvlgkpgakor gvl gokpbtgys xfulb,gqmkgys xuagaksl otgvl 
aszuot,gfvcuagsaugkpgmragkqlguhvfwougswklgvoogkiivarkla,gvagquoogvagbmkau
kpgkbmuza;gvl gxrnuagunr uliugvagpzuuotgkpgmrfauopgvagkpgvgbmrz gwuzaklj
Qugvzugbkgwvaag.tgbmuaugikffklgzsouagkpgirnrorbt,grlgpvnkszgkpgbzsbmgvl 
or.uzbtjggRg vzuglkbgklotgawuvcgkpgftauop,g.sbgbkgawuvcgklotgkpgftauop:
qmulgRgqzrbugkpgvltbmrlxguoau,gRgfraagftgqvtgvl gqvl uzgpzkfgftgas.yuibj
Rgvfglkbgakgrl raizuubotgulvfkszu gkpgftauop,gakgqmkootgfrhu gswgqrbm,
vl g.ksl gbkgftauop,gbmvbgRgivllkbg rabrlxsramgvl giklar uzgftauopgvwvzb,
vagRg kgvglurxm.kszgkzgvgbzuu:g‘braguesvootgvgpvsobglkbgbkg raiuzlgmkq
pvzgvgfvl’agqkzbmguhbul a,gvl gbkgavtgfkzugbmvlgvgfvlg raiknuzagrl
mrfauopjggQugkqugfkzugoknugbkgXk gbmvlgbkgkszauonua,gvl gclkqgMrfgouaa;
vl gtubgawuvcgkpgMrfgvagfsimgvagqugqrooj

RpgbmugqzrbrlxagkpgBvirbsagrl rivbugvltbmrlxgbzsugkpgmragesvorbrua,gmu
qvagvgxzuvbgwuzaklvxu,gswzrxmbgvl g.ko ,glkbgkpgvgaswuzabrbrksag.sbgkpgv
wmrokakwmrivogvl gxuluzksagnrzbsujggKlugfvtgbmrlcgmrfg.ko grlgmra
zuovbrkla;gvagqmuzugmugbuooagsa,gbmvbgvgako ruzgivzztrlxgvg.sz ulgkp
qkk ,gmragmvl agquzugakgpzkdulgvl gakgabsicgbkgbmugokv gbmvbgbmutgbmuzu
zufvrlu giokau gvl g uv ,g.urlxgaunuzu gpzkfgmragvzfajggRgvoqvtagrlgasim
bmrlxag.kqgbkgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgakgxzuvbgqrbluaauaj

Qmvbgvoakgmugavta,gbmvbgNuawvarvl,g“.tgbmugpvnkszgkpgbmugxk gAuzvwra,
iszu gvg.orl gqkfvlgvbgVouhvl zrvg.tgvlkrlbrlxgmuzgutuagqrbmgmragawrbbou,
vl gRgclkqglkbgqmvbgkbmuzgfrzviou,”gmugavtag.tgbmuguhvfwougvl g sbtgkp
voogmragxkk gmrabkzrvlajggBmutgzuikz gvoogunulbagkpgrfwkzbvliu;gvl 
vfklxabgws.origrlir ulbagvzugbmugwkwsovzgzsfkszagvl gkwrlrklajgg‘Bra
bmurzgwvzbgbkgzuovbugikffklg.uorupa,glkbgbkgzuxsovbugbmuf:gbmvbgwvzb
ikliuzlag rnrluagvl gwmrokakwmuza,g rzuibkzagkpgiklairuliua;gvl 
bmuzupkzugrbgqvagbmvbgbmragikfwvlrklgkpgmra,gvl gvgxzuvbgfvlgorcu
mrfauop,gnuztgqrauotgavr :

ggggg“Uesr ufgwoszvgbzvlaizr.k,gesvfgizu k:glvfgluigvpprzfvzu
gggggasabrluk,g ugesr.sag s.rbk,gluigas. siuzugesvugviiuwr;”

ggggg[“Bzsot,gRgaubg kqlgfkzugbmrlxagbmvlgRg.uorunu,gpkzgRgivlglurbmuz
gggggvpprzfgbmrlxagqmuzukpgRg ks.b,glkzgaswwzuaagqmvbgRgmvnugmuvz j”
gggggg--EsrlbsagIszbrsa,grhj]

vl gbmragkbmuz:

ggggggggggggggg“Mvuigluesugvpprzfvzugluesugzupuoouzugkwuzvu
gggggggggggggggwzubrsfguab;gpvfvugzuzsfgabvl sfguabj”

ggggg[“‘Braglurbmuzgqkzbmgbmugqmrougbkgvpprzfgkzgbkgzupsbugbmuaugbmrlxa;
gggggqugfsabgabvl gbkgzuwkzb”--Ornt,grj,gWzvupj,gvl gnrrrjg6j]

Vl gqzrbrlxgrlgvlgvxugqmuzurlgbmug.uorupgkpgwzk rxruag.uxvlgbkg uiorlu,
mugavtagmugqkso glkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gpkz.uvzgbkgrlauzbgrlgmragVllvoa,gvl 
bkgxrnugvgzuovbrklgkpgbmrlxagzuiurnu g.tgakgfvltgqkzbmtgful,gvl gqrbmgak
xzuvbgzunuzuliugkpgvlbresrbt;g‘bragnuztgquoogavr jggOubgbmufg uornuzgbk
sagmrabkzt,gfkzugvagbmutgzuiurnugrbgbmvlgvagbmutg.uorunugrbjggR,gqmkgvf
fklvzimgkpgbmugfvbbuzgqmuzukpgRgbzuvb,gvl gqmkgvfgviikslbv.ougbkglklu,g k
lkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gvoqvtag.uorunugftauop;gRgkpbulgmvdvz gavooruagkpgft
kqlgqrb,gqmuzurlgRgnuztgfsimgasawuibgftauop,gvl giuzbvrlgnuz.vogesr..oua,
vbgqmrimgRgamvcugftguvza;g.sbgRgoubgbmufgxkgvbgvgnulbszujggRgauugbmvb
kbmuzagxubgzuwsbvbrklg.tgasimgbmrlxa:g‘braglkbgpkzgfugvoklugbkgys xujggR
wzuaulbgftauopgabvl rlxgvl gotrlx,g.upkzugvl g.umrl ,gftgzrxmbgar ugvl 
ftgoupb,gvl ,grlgvoogftglvbszvogwkabszuajggQrba,gbmksxmguesvogrlgpkziu,
vzuglkbgvoqvtaguesvogrlgbvabugvl gvwworivbrklj

Bmragragqmvbgftgfufkztgwzuaulbagbkgfugrlgxzkaa,gvl gqrbmgsliuzbvrlbt
ulksxm;gvoogys xfulbagrlgxzkaagvzugquvcgvl grfwuzpuibj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgmsl zu gfkzuguaivwugsagbmvlgunuzgikfugbkgkszgclkqou xu
gggggVgfvlgfsabgmvnugikszvxugbkgpuvz
gggggVgfvlglunuzgawuvcagkpgmrfauopgqrbmksbgokaa
gggggVgfvl’agviisavbrklagkpgmrfauopgvzugvoqvtag.uorunu 
gggggVxrbvbrklgmvagsaszwu gbmugwoviugkpgzuvakl
gggggVoogys xfulbagrlgxzkaagvzugquvcgvl grfwuzpuib
gggggVltgvzxsfulbgrpgrbgg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmgfubmk 
gggggVwwzulbriuamrwagbmvbgvzugbkg.ugauznu g.upkzumvl 
gggggVzzkxvlbgrxlkzvliu
gggggVnkr gvoogfvxlrpriuliuagbmvbgqroogrlgvgamkzbgbrfug.ugpkzxkbbul
ggggg.urlxgvagrfwvbrulbgkpgikffvl rlxgvagkpg.urlxgikffvl u 
ggggg upuzgftgzunulxugbkgvlkbmuzgvl g.ubbuzgbrfu
ggggg uarzua,gbmvbgabroogrlizuvaugvagbmutgvzugpsoproou 
ggggg ubuabgrlgkbmuzagbmug upuibagqmrimgvzugfkzugfvlrpuabgrlgsa
ggggg ra vrlpso,giklbufwovbrnu,gauzrksagvl gxzvnugvagbmugvaa
ggggg kglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gvoqvtag.uorunugftauop
gggggUnulbagvzugvgnuztgwkkzgbuabrfkltgkpgkszgqkzbmgvl gwvzbaj
gggggUnuztgv.zr xfulbgkpgvgxkk g.kkcgragvgpkkoramgv.zr xfulb
gggggPvsobglkbgbkg raiuzlgmkqgpvzgvgfvl’agqkzbmguhbul a
gggggPkootgvl gv.asz rbtgvzuglkbgbkg.ugiszu g.tg.vzugv fklrbrkl
gggggPkootgavbrapru gqrbmgrbauopgbmvlgvltgzuvaklgivlgzuvaklv.otg.u
gggggPkootgbmvlgbkg.ugfknu gvl gvlxztgvbgbmugpkooruagkpgbmugqkzo 
gggggXrnugsagmrabkzt,gfkzugvagbmutgzuiurnugrbgbmvlgvagbmutg.uorunugrb
gggggRgunuztg vtgmuvzgpkkoagavtgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkbgpkkoram
gggggRgmvrogvl givzuaagbzsbmgrlgqmvbgesvzbuzgakunuzgRgprl grb
gggggRgmvbugvoogakzbagkpgbtzvllt,g.kbmgrlgqkz gvl g uu 
gggggRgoknugabksbguhwzuaarklagvfklxabgxulbougful
gggggRgqvagbkkgpzrxmbulu gbkg.ugroo
gggggRpgrbg.ugbmugqzrbuz’agqrbgkzg.kzzkqu gpzkfgakfugkbmuz
gggggRxlkzvliug kuaglkbgkppul gfu,g.sbgbmugpkwwuztgkpgrbj
gggggRbgraglkbgvg.kkcgbkgzuv ,g‘bragvg.kkcgbkgabs tgvl gouvzl
ggggg“RbgqvagqmvbgRgqvagv.ksbgbkgavt;grbgqvagysabgftgr uv,”
ggggggYs xug.tgysabriu,gvl gimkkaugfulg.tgzuvakl
gggggClkicgtksg kqlgqrbmgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzguhwuzruliu
gggggOuvzlrlxgrfwzknuagpkzbsluagulksxm,g.sbglkbgfrl a
gggggOr.uzvorbtgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgkbmuza
gggggFvoriugfsabg.ugufwoktu gbkgikzzuibgbmragvzzkxvlbgrxlkzvliu
gggggFvlgfsabgmvnugvgivzuglkbgbkg kgmragfvabuzgakgxzuvbgauznriu
gggggFrhgzvrorlx,grl raizubrkl,gvl gpsztgrlgmrag rawsbvbrkla
gggggFkabgfulgvzugzrimgrlg.kzzkqu gaspprirulit
gggggFtgmsfkszgragslprbgurbmuzgbkgawuvcgkzgqzrbugpkzg.uxrlluza
gggggFtgzuvaklgraglkbgk.orxu gbkg.kqgvl g.ul ;gftgcluuagvzu
gggggLunuzgkwwkaugbmufgurbmuzg.tgqkz gkzgarxl,gmkqgpvoaugkzgv.asz 
gggggLuqgQkzo :gako grbgkwrlrklagvl gkszgvzbagvbgvgnuztg uvzgzvbu
gggggK.abrlvlitgvl gmuvbgrlgvzxsfulbgvzugbmugaszuabgwzkkpagkpgpkoot
gggggKlugfsabgprzabgclkqgqmvbgragmragkqlgvl gqmvbgraglkb
gggggKszgclkqou xu,gqmrimgragvgqzubimu gpksl vbrkl
gggggWvaarklgmvagvozuv tgiklpksl u gmragys xfulb
gggggWrlimgbmugauizubgabzrlxagkpgkszgrfwuzpuibrkla
gggggWzvibrivogYkcua:gBragslmvl akfugbkgprxmbgrlgwovt
gggggWzuasfwbrnugclkqou xug.tgarouliu
gggggAroulbgfrulgwzkiszu gbmugizu rbgkpgwzs uliugvl givwvirbt
gggggAwuibvbkzagivlgiovrfglkgrlbuzuabgrlgbmugmklkszgvl gwouvaszu
gggggAbs tgkpg.kkcagragvgovlxsramrlxgvl gpuu.ougfkbrkl
gggggBmugivsaugkpgbzsbmgksxmbgbkg.ugbmugikffklgivsau
gggggBmugunulbgkpbulgysabrpruagvgnuztgpkkoramgikl sib
gggggBmugrxlkzvlbgzubszlgpzkfgbmugikf.vbgpsoogkpgyktgvl gbzrsfwm
gggggBmugnuztglvfugOr.uzvorbtgaksl agkpgOr.uzbtj
gggggBmuzugvzugakfugswklgqmkfgbmurzgzrimgiokbmuagquuw
gggggBmuzugraglkgfuzimvlbgbmvbgvoqvtagxvrla
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgarlxougvl gzvzugrlgzuawuibgkpglvbszu
gggggBmutgmvnugmuvz ,gbmutgmvnugauul,gbmutgmvnug klugakgvl gak
gggggBmutgmvnuglkbgbmugikszvxugbkgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugikzzuibu 
gggggBragrfwkaar.ougbkg uvogpvrzotgqrbmgvgpkko
gggggBkgpzubgvl gnuhgvbgpkoot,gvagRg k,gragpkootgrbauop
gggggBzvlapuzzrlxgkpgfklutgpzkfgbmugzrxmbgkqluzagbkgabzvlxuza
gggggBsbkzgbkgbmugrxlkzvliugvl gpkootgkpgbmugprzabgqugfuub
gggggBtzvllrigakszluaaglkbgbkgul szugvgpkzfgiklbzvztgbkgklu’agkql
gggggSlrnuzavogys xfulbagbmvbgRgauugakgikffkl,garxlrptglkbmrlx
ggggg“Qmvbgmugovsxmu gvb,g.urlxgvoklu?”--“BmvbgRg kgovsxmgvoklu,”
ggggggQugvzuglkbgbkgys xugkpgikslauoag.tgunulba
gggggQug kglkbgikzzuibgbmugfvlgqugmvlx;gqugikzzuibgkbmuzag.tgmrf
gggggQuglurbmuzgauugpvzgpkzqvz glkzgpvzg.vicqvz 
gggggQmroabgbmksgqvabgaroulb,gbmksgauufu abgbkg.ugakfugxzuvbgbmrlx
gggggQmkgmvagkliug.uulgvgnuztgpkko,gqrooglunuzgvpbuzg.ugnuztgqrau
gggggQr ugkpgbmugfvzcgrlgys xrlxgkpgbmurzgkqlgqkzca
gggggQraugfvtgouvzlgfkzugkpgpkkoa,gbmvlgpkkoagivlgkpgbmugqrau







UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg17j

RHjgggKpgNvlrbt



IMVWBUZgRH

KPgNVLRBT

Bmuzugra,gwuzv nulbszu,glkgfkzugfvlrpuabgnvlrbtgbmvlgbkgqzrbugkpgrbgak
nvrlotjggBmvbgqmrimg rnrlrbtgmvagakg rnrluotguhwzuaau gbkgsa--[“Nvlrbt
kpgnvlrbrua:gvoogragnvlrbtj”--Uiiouaj,grjg2j]--ksxmbgbkg.ugivzupsootgvl 
iklbrlsvootgfu rbvbu g.tgfulgkpgsl uzabvl rlxjggQmkg kuaglkbgauugbmvbgR
mvnugbvculgvgzkv ,grlgqmrim,grliuaavlbotgvl gqrbmksbgov.ksz,gRgamvoo
wzkiuu gakgoklxgvagbmuzugamvoog.ugrlcgvl gwvwuzgrlgbmugqkzo ?ggRgivlgxrnu
lkgviikslbgkpgftgorpug.tgftgvibrkla;gpkzbslugmvagwoviu gbmufgbkkgokq:gR
fsabg kgrbg.tgftgpvliruajggVl gtubgRgmvnugauulgvgxulboufvlgqmkgklot
ikffslrivbu gmragorpug.tgbmugqkzcrlxagkpgmrag.uoot:gtksgfrxmbgauugklgmra
wzufrauagvgamkqgkpgvgzkqgkpg.varlagkpgaunulgkzgurxmbg vta’gabvl rlx;grb
qvagmragabs t,gmrag raikszau;gvoogkbmuzgbvocgabvlcgrlgmraglkabzroaj
Muzu,g.sbglkbgakglvsauksa,gvzugbmuguhizufulbagkpgvlgko gfrl ,gakfubrfua
bmric,gakfubrfuagbmrl,gvl gvoqvtagrl rxuabu jggVl gqmulgamvoogRgmvnug klu
zuwzuaulbrlxgbmugiklbrlsvogvxrbvbrklgvl gfsbvbrklgkpgftgbmksxmba,gvagbmut
ikfugrlbkgftgmuv ,gauurlxgbmvbg rkfu uagqzkbugarhgbmksavl g.kkcagswklgbmu
akougas.yuibgkpgxzvffvz?

ggggg[Rbgqvaglkbg rkfu ua,g.sbg r tfsagbmugxzvffvzrvl,gqmk,gvagAuluiv
ggggg(Uwj,g88)gbuooagsa,gqzkbugpkszglkbgarhgbmksavl g.kkcagklgesuabrkla
gggggkpgnvrlgorbuzvbszu,gqmrimgqvagbmugwzrlirwvogabs tgkpgbmugvlirulb
gggggxzvffvzrvlj--Ikabujgg.sbgbmuglsf.uzgragwzk.v.otguhvxxuzvbu ,gvl gpkz
ggggg.kkcagqugamkso g ks.bouaagzuv gwvfwmoubagkzguaavtaj]

Qmvb,gbmul,gksxmbgwzvbrlxgbkgwzk siu,garliugwzvbborlxgvl gbmugprzab
.uxrllrlxgbkgawuvc,gabsppu gbmugqkzo gqrbmgasimgvgmkzzr.ougokv gkp
nkosfua?ggAkgfvltgqkz agpkzgqkz agklotjggKgWtbmvxkzva,gqmtg r abglkbgbmks
voovtgbmragbufwuab?ggBmutgviisau gklugXvo.vgkpgko gpkzgornrlxgr ot;gmu
fv ugvlaquz,g“Bmvbgunuztgklugksxmbgbkgxrnugviikslbgkpgmragvibrkla,g.sb
lkbgkpgmragmkfuj”ggMugqvagfrabvcul,gpkzgysabriugvoakgbvcuagikxlravliugkp
bmkaugqmkgxouvlgvpbuzgbmugzuvwuzj

.sbgbmuzugamkso g.ugakfugzuabzvrlbgkpgovqgvxvrlabgpkkoramgvl grfwuzbrlulb
aizr..ouza,gvagquoogvagvxvrlabgnvxv.kl agvl gr ougwuzakla;gqmrimgrpgbmuzu
quzu,g.kbmgRgvl gvgmsl zu gkbmuzagqkso g.ug.vlramu gpzkfgbmugzuvimgkpgksz
wukwoujggRg kglkbgawuvcgbmragrlgyuab:gaizr..orlxgauufagbkg.ugvgatfwbkfgkp
vg rakz uzu gvl goriulbrksagvxujggQmulg r gqugqzrbugakgfsimgvagarliugksz
bzks.oua?gqmulgbmugZkfvlagakgfsim,gvagswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgzsrl?gg.uar ua
bmvb,gbmugzuprlrlxgkpgqrbag kuaglkbgfvcugwukwougqrauzgrlgvgxknuzlfulb:
bmragr ougufwoktfulbgawzrlxagpzkfgbmra,gbmvbgunuztgklugvwworuagmrfauop
luxorxulbotgbkgbmug sbtgkpgmragnkivbrkl,gvl graguvarotg u.vsimu gpzkfgrbj
Bmugikzzswbrklgkpgbmugvxugragfv ugswg.tgbmugwvzbrisovzgiklbzr.sbrklgkp
unuztgrl rnr svogfvl;gakfugiklbzr.sbugbzuvimuzt,gkbmuzagrlysabriu,
rzzuorxrkl,gbtzvllt,gvnvzriu,gizsuobt,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgwkquz;gbmu
quvcuzgakzbgiklbzr.sbugpkoot,gnvlrbt,gvl gr ouluaa;gkpgbmuaugRgvfgkluj
Rbgauufagvagrpgrbgquzugbmugauvaklgpkzgnvrlgbmrlxa,gqmulgbmugmszbpso
kwwzuaagsa;grlgvgbrfugqmulg krlxgroogragikffkl,gbkg kg.sbgqmvbgarxlrprua
lkbmrlxgragvgcrl gkpgikfful vbrkljgg‘Bragftgikfpkzb,gbmvbgRgamvoog.ugklu
kpgbmugovabgqmkgamvoog.ugivoou grlgesuabrkl;gvl gqmroabgbmugxzuvbuz
kppul uzagvzug.urlxg.zksxmbgbkgviikslb,gRgamvoogmvnugouraszugbkgvful :
pkzgrbgqkso ,gfubmrlca,g.ugvxvrlabgzuvaklgbkgwslramgorbbou
rliklnulruliua,gqmroabgqugvzugrlpuabu gqrbmgbmugxzuvbuzjggVagbmu
wmtarirvlgWmrokbrfsagavr gbkgklugqmkgwzuaulbu gmrfgmragprlxuzgbkg zuaa,
vl gqmkgmugwuziurnu ,g.kbmg.tgmragikfwouhrklgvl gmrag.zuvbm,gmv gvlgsoiuz
rlgmragoslxa:g“Pzrul ,grbgraglkbglkqgbrfugbkgwovtgqrbmgtkszglvroaj”
g--[Wosbvzim,gMkqgqugfvtg rabrlxsramgvgPovbbuzuzgpzkfgvgPzrul j]

Vl gtubgRgavq,gakfugtuvzagvxk,gvgwuzakl,gqmkauglvfugvl gfufkztgRgmvnugrl
nuztgxzuvbguabuuf,grlgbmugnuztgmurxmbgkpgkszgxzuvbg rakz uza,gqmulgbmuzu
qvaglurbmuzgovqglkzgysabriu,glkzgfvxrabzvbugqmkgwuzpkzfu gmragkppriu,glk
fkzugbmvlgbmuzugraglkq,gws.oramgRgclkqglkbgqmvbgwrbrpsogzupkzfvbrkla
v.ksbgiokbma,gikkcuzt,gvl govqgimrivluztjggBmkaugvzugvfsaufulbagqmuzuqrbm
bkgpuu gvgwukwougbmvbgvzugroo-sau ,gbkgamkqgbmvbgbmutgvzuglkbgbkbvoot
pkzxkbbuljggBmkaugkbmuzag kgbmugavfu,gqmkgrlarabgswklgwzkmr.rbrlx
wvzbrisovzgqvtagkpgawuvcrlx,g vliua,gvl gxvfua,gbkgvgwukwougbkbvoot
v.vl klu gbkgvoogakzbagkpguhuizv.ougnriuajgg‘Braglkgbrfugbkg.vbmugvl 
iouvlaugklu’agauop,gqmulgklugragaurdu g.tgvgnrkoulbgpunuz;grbgqvagpkzgbmu
Awvzbvlagvoklugbkgpvoogbkgikf.rlxgvl giszorlxgbmufauonua,gqmulgbmutgquzu
ysabgswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgzsllrlxgmuv oklxgrlbkgakfuguhbzufug vlxuzgkpgbmurz
orpuj

Pkzgftgwvzb,gRgmvnugbmvbgqkzaugisabkf,gbmvbgrpgftgaorwwuzgxkgvqzt,gRgoub
ftgamrzbgvl gftgiokvcg kgakgbkk;gRgaikzlgbkgful gftauopg.tgmvonuaj

QmulgRgvfgrlgvg.v gworxmb,gRgpvabulgswklgbmugfraimrup;gRgv.vl klgftauop
bmzksxmg uawvrz;gRgoubgftauopgxkgbkqvz agbmugwzuirwriu,gvl ,gvagbmutgavt,
“bmzkqgbmugmuonugvpbuzgbmugmvbimub”;gRgvfgk.abrlvbugrlgxzkqrlxgqkzau,gvl 
bmrlcgftauopglkgoklxuzgqkzbmgftgkqlgivzu;gRgvfgurbmuzgquoogkzgroo
bmzksxmksbjgg‘Bgragvgpvnkszgbkgfu,gbmvbgbmug uakovbrklgkpgbmragcrlx kf
pvooagksbgrlgbmug uakovbrklgkpgftgvxu:gRg.ubbuzgasppuzgbmvbgftgroog.u
fsobrworu ,gbmvlgrpgftgquoogmv g.uulg rabsz.u j--[Bmvb,g.urlxgroo,gR
amkso gxzkqgqkzau,gbmvlgbmvb,g.urlxgquoo,gRgamkso gxzkqgrooj]--Bmugqkz a
Rgsbbuzgrlgframvwgvzugqkz agkpgvlxuz:gftgikszvxugaubagswgrbag.zraboua,
rlabuv gkpgoubbrlxgbmufg kql;gvl ,giklbzvztgbkgkbmuza,gRgvfgfkzug unksb
rlgxkk gbmvlgrlgunrogpkzbslu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzuiuwbgkpgHulkwmkl,grp
lkbgviikz rlxgbkgmragzuvakl;gvl gvfgfkzugzuv tgbkgbszlgswgftgutuagbk
muvnulgbkgzubszlgbmvlca,gbmvlgbkgizvnujggRgvfgfkzugakorirbksagbkgrfwzknu
ftgmuvobm,gqmulgRgvfgquoo,gbmvlgbkgzuabkzugrbgqmulgRgvfgaric;
wzkawuzrbruagvzugbmugavfug rairworlugvl grlabzsibrklgbkgfugbmvb
v nuzarbruagvl gzk agvzugbkgkbmuzajggVagrpgxkk gpkzbslugquzugvgbmrlx
rliklarabulbgqrbmgxkk giklairuliu,gfulglunuzgxzkqgxkk g.sbgrlgunro
pkzbslujggXkk gpkzbslugragbkgfugvgarlxsovzgawszgbkgfk uabtgvl 
fk uzvbrkl:gvlgulbzuvbtgqrla,gvgbmzuvbgimuicagfu;gpvnkszgfvcuagfug.ul ,
puvzgabrppulagfuj

Vfklxabgmsfvlgikl rbrklagbmragragikffklgulksxm:gbkg.ug.ubbuzgwouvau gqrbm
pkzurxlgbmrlxagbmvlgqrbmgkszgkql,gvl gbkgoknugrllknvbrklgvl gimvlxu:

gggggggggggggg“Rwavg ruagr ukglkagxzvbkgwuzosrbgmvsabs,
gggggggggggggggEsk gwuzfsbvbragmkzvgzuiszzrbguesra:”

ggggg[“Bmugorxmbgkpg vtgrbauopgamrluagfkzugwouvavlbotgswklgsag.uivsaugrb
gggggimvlxuagrbagmkzauagunuztgmkszj”ggAwkcugkpgvgqvbuzgmksz-xovaa,
gggggv  aggIkbbklj]

RgmvnugftgamvzujggBmkaugqmkgpkookqgbmugkbmuzguhbzufu,gkpg.urlxgesrbu
avbrapru gvl gwouvau gqrbmgvl grlgbmufauonua,gkpgnvosrlxgqmvbgbmutgmvnu
v.knugvoogbmugzuab,gvl gkpgiklios rlxglkg.uvsbtgivlg.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgqmvb
bmutgauu,grpgbmutgvzuglkbgqrauzgbmvlgqu,gvzugzuvootgfkzugmvwwt;gRg kglkb
ulntgbmurzgqra kf,g.sbgbmurzgxkk gpkzbsluj

Bmragxzuu tgmsfkszgkpgluqgvl gslclkqlgbmrlxagmuowagbkglkszramgrlgfugbmu
 uarzugkpgbzvnuo;g.sbgvgxzuvbgfvltgfkzugirzisfabvliuagiklbzr.sbugbkgrb;
RgvfgnuztgqroorlxgbkgesrbgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgftgmksaujggBmuzugra,gR
iklpuaa,gvgcrl gkpgiklnulruliugrlgikffvl rlx,gbmksxmgrbgquzug.sbgrlgv
.vzl,gvl grlg.urlxgk.utu g.tgklu’agwukwou;g.sbg‘bragbkkgslrpkzfgvl 
ovlxsr gvgwouvaszu,gvl gra,gfkzuknuz,gkpgluiuaarbtgfrhu gqrbmgvgbmksavl 
nuhvbrksagbmksxmba:gklugqmrougbmugwknuzbtgvl gbmugkwwzuaarklgkpgtksz
bulvlba:gvlkbmuz,gesvzzuoagvfklxabglurxm.ksza:gvlkbmuz,gbmugbzuawvaaua
bmutgfvcugswklgtksgvpporibgtks;

ggggggggggggggggggg“Vsbgnuz.uzvbvugxzvl rlugnrluvu,
ggggggggggggggggggggPsl saesugful vh,gvz.kzuglsligvesva
ggggggggggggggggggggIsowvlbu,glsligbkzzulbrvgvxzka
ggggggggggggggggggggAr uzv,glsligmtufuagrlresvaj”

ggggg[“Kzgmvro-afrbbulgnrluagvl gbmug uiuwbrnugpvzf;glkqgbzuuag vfvxu 
ggggg.tgbmugzvrla,gkzgtuvzagkpg uvzbm,glkqgasffuz’agmuvbg.szlrlxgswgbmu
gggggwubvoa,glkqg uabzsibrnugqrlbuzaj”--Mkzvbrsa,gK j,grrrjgR,g29j]

vl gbmvbgXk gaivziugrlgarhgfklbmagaul agvgauvaklgqmuzurlgtkszg.vrorppgivl
 kgmrag.sarluaagvagmugamkso ;g.sbgbmvbgrpgrbgauznuagbmugnrlua,grbgawkroa
bmugfuv kqa:

gggggggggggggg“Vsbglrfrragbkzzubgpuznkzr.sagvubmuzrsagako,
gggggggggggggggVsbgas.rbrgwuzrfslbgrf.zua,gxuor kuesugwzsrlvu,
gggggggggggggggPov.zvesugnulbkzsfgnrkoulbkgbsz.rlugnuhvlb;”

ggggg[“Urbmuzgbmugaikzimrlxgaslg.szlagswgtkszgpruo a,gkzgas  ulgzvrlagkz
gggggpzkabag uabzktgtkszgmvznuaba,gkzgvgnrkoulbgqrl givzzruagvqvtgvoo
ggggg.upkzugrbj”--Osizubrsa,gNjg216j]

bkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmugluqgvl gluvb-fv ugamkugkpgbmugfvlgkpgko ,gbmvb
mszbagtkszgpkkb,

ggggg[OuiouzigfvorirksaotgasxxuabagbmvbgbmragragvgaotgmrbgvbgFklbvrxlu’a
gggggqrpu,gbmugfvlgkpgko g.urlxgbmugwuzaklgfulbrklu grlgWosbvzim’agOrpu
gggggkpgWvsosagUfrorsa,gijg3,gqmk,gqmulgmragpzrul agzuwzkvimu gmrfgpkz
gggggzuws rvbrlxgmragqrpu,gqmkaugnvzrksagfuzrbagbmutguhbkoou ,gwkrlbu gbk
gggggmragamku,gvl gavr ,g“Bmvbgokkcagvglriugquoo-fv ugamkugbkgtks;g.sbgR
gggggvoklugclkqgqmuzugrbgwrlimuaj”]

vl gbmvbgvgabzvlxuzg kuaglkbgsl uzabvl gmkqgfsimgrbgikabagtks,gvl gqmvb
tksgiklbzr.sbugbkgfvrlbvrlgbmvbgamkqgkpgkz uzgbmvbgragauulgrlgtksz
pvfrot,gvl gbmvbgwuzv nulbszugtksg.stgbkkg uvzj

Rgivfugovbugbkgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgvgmksau:gbmutgqmkfglvbszugaulbgrlbkgbmu
qkzo g.upkzugfugoklxguvau gfugkpgbmvbgbzks.ou;gakgbmvbgRgmv gvozuv t
bvculgvlkbmuzg.ulbgfkzugasrbv.ougbkgftgmsfkszjggTub,gpkzgakgfsimgvagR
mvnugauul,g‘bragvlgufwoktfulbgfkzugbzks.ouakfugbmvlgmvz ;gqmkunuzgra
ivwv.ougkpgvltbmrlxguoau,gqrooguvarotg kgbmrajggMv gRgvgfrl gbkg.ugzrim,
bmvbgqvtgqkso gauufgbkkgoklx;gRgmv gauznu gftgcrlxa,gvgfkzugwzkprbv.ou
bzvpprigbmvlgvltgkbmuzjggArliugRgwzubul gbkglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkp
mvnrlxgxkbglkbmrlxgkzg raarwvbu glkbmrlx,giklpkzfv.otgbkgbmugzuabgkpgft
orpu,grfwzkwuzgurbmuzgbkg kgxkk gkzgroogkpgvltgfkfulb,gvl gbmvbgRgklot
 uarzugbkgwvaagkl,gRgivlg kgrb,gbmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,gqrbmksbgvltgxzuvb
ul uvnkszjggVbgbmugqkzab,gunuzfkzugwzunulbgwknuzbtg.tgouaaulrlxgtksz
uhwulau;g‘bragbmvbgqmrimgRgfvcugftgxzuvbgikliuzl,gvl g ks.bglkbg.sbgbkg k
rbg.upkzugRgamvoog.ugikfwuoou jggVagbkgbmugzuab,gRgmvnugaspprirulbot
aubbou gftgbmksxmbagbkgornugswklgouaagbmvlgRgmvnu,gvl gornugiklbulbu ot:

gggggggggg“Lklgvuabrfvbrklugiulasa,gnuzsfgnribsgvbesugisobs,
ggggggggggbuzfrlvlbszgwuislrhgfk saj”

ggggg[“‘Braglkbg.tgbmugnvosugkpgwkaauaarkla,g.sbg.tgkszg vrotgas.arabuliu
gggggvl gbroovxu,gbmvbgkszgzrimuagvzugbzsotguabrfvbu j”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gWvzv kh,gnrjg3j]

Ftgzuvogluu g kuaglkbgakgqmkootgbvcugswgvoogRgmvnu,gbmvbgPkzbslugmvaglkb
qmuzuklgbkgpvabulgmuzgbuubmgqrbmksbg.rbrlxgbkgbmugesricjggFtgwzuauliu,
muu ouaagvl grxlkzvlbgvagrbgra,g kuagfugxzuvbgauznriugrlgftg kfuabri
vppvrza;gRgufwoktgftauopgrlgbmuf,g.sbgrbgxkuagvxvrlabgbmugmvrz,gprl rlx
bmvbgRgmvnugbmragrlgftgmksau,gbmvbgbmksxmgRg.szlgftgivl ougvbgklugul g.t
ftauop,gbmugkbmuzgraglkbgawvzu j

Ykszlutag kgfuglkgmvzfg.sbgklotg.tgbmurzguhwulau,gqmrimgragxzuvb,gvl 
fkzugbmvlgRgvfgquoogv.ougbkg.uvz,g.urlxgvoqvtagqklbgbkgbzvnuogqrbmglkb
klotgvgluiuaavzt,g.sbgvgmvl akfuguesrwvxu;gRgfsabgfvcugbmufgakgfsim
amkzbuzgvl gpuquz;gRgawul gbmuzurlg.sbgbmugpzkbm,gvl gqmvbgRgmvnu
zuauznu gpkzgasimgsaua,g uovtrlxgvl g upuzzrlxgftgfkbrklgbroogbmvbg.u
zuv tjggRgqrooglkbgbmvbgbmugwouvaszugkpgxkrlxgv.zkv gawkrogbmugwouvaszu
kpg.urlxgzubrzu gvbgmkfu;gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gRgrlbul gbmutgamvooglkszram
vl gpvnkszgklugvlkbmuzjggPkzbslugmvagvaarabu gfugrlgbmra,gbmvbgarliugft
wzrlirwvogwzkpuaarklgrlgbmragorpugqvagbkgornugvbguvau,gvl gzvbmuzgr ot
bmvlg.sarot,gamugmvag uwzrnu gfugkpgbmugluiuaarbtgkpgxzkqrlxgzrimgbk
wzknr ugpkzgbmugfsobrbs ugkpgftgmurzajggRpgbmuzug.uglkbgulksxmgpkzgklu,
kpgbmvbgqmuzukpgRgmv gakgwoulbrpsootgulksxm,gvbgmragwuzrog.ugrb:gmra
rfwzs uliugqrooglkbg uauznugbmvbgRgamkso gqramgmrfgvltgfkzujggVl gunuzt
klu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmuguhvfwougkpgWmkirkl,gwzknr uagaspprirulbotgpkzgmra
imro zulgqmkgakgwzknr uagpkzgbmufgvagbkgouvnugbmufgvagfsimgvagqvagoupb
mrfjggRgamkso g.tglkgfuvlagorcugIzvbua’gqvtjggMugoupbgmragfklutgrlgbmu
mvl agkpgvg.vlcuzgqrbmgbmragikl rbrkl--bmvbgrpgmragimro zulgquzugpkkoa,
mugamkso gbmulgxrnugrbgbkgbmuf;grpgqrau,gmugamkso gbmulg rabzr.sbugrbgbk
bmugfkabgpkkoramgkpgbmugwukwou;gvagrpgpkkoa,gpkzg.urlxgouaagivwv.ougkp
ornrlxgqrbmksbgzrimua,gquzugfkzugivwv.ougkpgsarlxgbmufj

Vbgvoogunulba,gbmug vfvxugkiivarklu g.tgftgv.auliugauufaglkbgbkg uauznu,
akgoklxgvagRgvfgv.ougbkgaswwkzbgrb,gbmvbgRgamkso gqvrnugbmugkiivarklagkp
 rnuzbrlxgftauopg.tgbmvbgbzks.ouakfugvaarabvliuj

BmuzugragvoqvtagakfubmrlxgbmvbgxkuagvfraajggBmugvppvrza,gklugqmrougkpgklu
mksau,gvl gbmulgkpgvlkbmuz,gbuvzgtksgbkgwruiua;gtksgwztgrlbkgunuztbmrlx
bkkgluvz;gtkszgwuzawrivirbtgmszbagtksgmuzu,gvagquoogvagrlgkbmuzgbmrlxaj
Rgabuvogvqvtgpzkfgkiivarklagkpgnuhrlxgftauop,gvl gbszlgpzkfgbmugclkqou xu
kpgbmrlxagbmvbgxkgvfraa;gvl gtubgRgivllkbgakgkz uzgrb,g.sbgbmvbgunuzt
mkszgRgykabougvxvrlabgakfubmrlxgkzgkbmuzgbmvbg rawouvauagfu;gvl gbmu
bzricagbmvbgbmutgfkabgikliuvogpzkfgfu,gvzugbmkaugbmvbgRgbmugakkluabgikfu
bkgclkq;gakfugbmuzugvzugbmvb,glkbgbkgfvcugfvbbuzagqkzau,gvgfvlgfsab
mrfauopgmuowgbkgikliuvojggNvrlgnuhvbrkla;gnvrlgakfubrfua,g.sbgvoqvta
nuhvbrklajggBmugafvoouabgvl gaorxmbuabgrfwu rfulbagvzugbmugfkabgwruzirlx:
vl gvagorbbougoubbuzagfkabgbrzugbmugutua,gakg kgorbbougvppvrzagfkab
 rabsz.gsajggBmugzksbgkpgorbbougrooagfkzugkppul gbmvlgklu,gmkqgxzuvb
akunuzjgg.tgmkqgfsimg kfuabrigbmkzlagvzuglsfuzksagvl gaorxmb,g.tgakgfsim
bmutgwzricg uuwuzgvl gqrbmksbgqvzlrlx,guvarotgaszwzrarlxgsagqmulgouvabgqu
asawuibgbmufj

ggggg[LkqgMkfuzgamuqagsagiouvzotgulksxmgmkqgaszwzraugxrnuagbmugv nvlbvxu;
gggggqmkgzuwzuaulbagSotaauagquuwrlxgvbgbmug uvbmgkpgmrag kx;gvl glkb
gggggquuwrlxgvbgbmugbuvzagkpgmragfkbmuz;gbmugprzabgviir ulb,gbzrnrvogva
gggggrbgqva,gxkbgbmug.ubbuzgkpgmrf,gikfrlxgswklgmrfgesrbugsluhwuibu ot;
gggggmugasabvrlu gbmugauikl ,gbmksxmgfkzugwkbulb,g.uivsaugmugqvagwzuwvzu 
gggggpkzgrbjgg‘Bragorxmbgkiivarklagbmvbgmsf.ougkszgornuajg]

Rgvfglkgwmrokakwmuz;gunroagkwwzuaagfugviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgqurxmb,gvl gbmut
qurxmgvagfsimgviikz rlxgbkgbmugpkzfgvagbmugfvbbuz,gvl gnuztgkpbulgfkzuj
RpgRgmvnugbmuzurlgfkzugwuzawrivirbtgbmvlgbmugnsoxvz,gRgmvnugvoakgfkzu
wvbruliu;grlgamkzb,gbmutgqurxmgqrbmgfu,grpgbmutg kglkbgmszbgfujggOrpugra
vgbul uzgbmrlx,gvl guvarotgfkouabu jggArliugftgvxugmvagfv ugfugxzkqgfkzu
wularnugvl gfkzkau,

gggggggggg“Lufkgulrfgzuarabrbgar.r,gisfgivuwuzrbgrfwuoor,”

ggggg[“Pkzglkgfvlgzuarabagmrfauopgqmulgmugmvag.uxslgbkg.ug zrnul
gggggpkzqvz j”--Auluiv,gUwj,g13j]

pkzgbmugfkabgbzrnrvogivsaugrfvxrlv.ou,gRgrzzrbvbugbmvbgmsfksz,gqmrim
vpbuzqvz aglkszramuagvl guhvawuzvbuagrbauopgkpgrbagkqlgfkbrkl;gvbbzvibrlx
vl gmuvwrlxgswgfvbbuzgswklgfvbbuzgqmuzuklgbkgpuu :

ggggggggggggggg“Abroorir rgivasagovwr ufgivnvb:”

ggggg[“Bmugunuzgpvoorlxg zkwgmkookqagksbgvgabkluj”--Osizubrsa,grjg314j]

bmuaugiklbrlsvogbzricorlxagiklasfugvl gsoiuzvbugfujggKz rlvzt
rliklnulruliuagvzuglunuzgorxmb;gbmutgvzugiklbrlsvogvl grlauwvzv.ou,
uawuirvootgqmulgbmutgawzrlxgpzkfgbmugfuf.uzagkpgvgpvfrot,giklbrlsvogvl 
rlauwvzv.oujggQmulgRgiklar uzgftgvppvrzagvbg rabvliugvl grlgxzkaa,gR
prl ,g.uivsaugwuzmvwagftgfufkztgraglklugkpgbmug.uab,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugxklu
klgmrbmuzbkgrfwzknrlxg.utkl gftgzuvaklgkzguhwuibvbrkl;gftgzunulsugauufa
xzuvbuzgbmvlgrbgra;grbagwzkawuzrbtg.ubzvtagfu:g.sbgqmulgRgwztgfkzu
lvzzkqotgrlbkgbmug.sarluaa,gvl gauugmkqgvoogbmrlxagxk:

ggggggggggggggg“Bsfgnuzkgrlgiszvagvlrfsfg r sirfsagkflua;”

gggggggggg[“Rl uu gqugouv gbmugfrl grlbkgvoogakzbagkpgivzuaj”
ggggggggggg--VUlur ,gnjg720j]

Rgmvnugvgbmksavl gbmrlxagbkg uarzugvl gbkgpuvzjggBkgxrnugbmufgesrbugknuz,
ragnuztguvatgpkzgfugbkg k:g.sbgbkgokkcgvpbuzgbmufgqrbmksbgbzks.ou,gra
nuztgmvz jgg‘Bragvgfrauzv.ougbmrlxgbkg.ugrlgvgwoviugqmuzugunuztbmrlxgtks
auugufwoktagvl gikliuzlagtks;gvl gRgpvlitgbmvbgRgfkzugimuuzpsootgulykt
bmugwouvaszuagkpgvlkbmuzgfvl’agmksau,gvl gqrbmgxzuvbuzgvl gvgwszuz
zuoram,gbmvlgbmkaugkpgftgkqljgg rkxuluagvlaquzu gviikz rlxgbkgftgmsfksz
mrfgqmkgvacu gmrfgqmvbgakzbgkpgqrlugmugorcu gbmug.uab:g“Bmvbgkpgvlkbmuz,”
gavr gmuj--[ rkxuluagOvuzbrsa,gnrjg54j]

Ftgpvbmuzgbkkcgvg uorxmbgrlg.sro rlxgvbgFklbvrxlu,gqmuzugmugqvag.kzl;gvl 
rlgvoogbmugxknuzlfulbgkpg kfuabrigvppvrzagRgoknugbkgpkookqgmraguhvfwou
vl gzsoua,gvl gRgamvoogulxvxugbmkaugqmkgvzugbkgasiiuu gfu,gvagfsimgvagrl
fugorua,gbkg kgbmugavfujggIkso gRg kg.ubbuzgpkzgmrf,gRgqkso ;gvl gvf
wzks gbmvbgmragqroogragabroogwuzpkzfrlxgvl gvibrlxg.tgfujggXk gpkz.r 
bmvbgrlgftgmvl agRgamkso gunuzgasppuzgvltgrfvxugkpgorpu,gbmvbgRgvfgv.ou
bkgzul uzgbkgakgxkk gvgpvbmuz,gbkgpvrojggVl gqmuzunuzgRgmvnugbvculgrl
mvl gbkgabzulxbmulgakfugko gpksl vbrklagkpgqvooa,gvl gbkgzuwvrzgakfu
zsrlksag.sro rlxa,grlguvzluabgRgmvnug klugrbgfkzugksbgkpgzuawuibgbkgmra
 uarxl,gbmvlgftgkqlgavbrapvibrkl;gvl gvfgvlxztgvbgftauopgbmvbgRgmvnuglkb
wzkiuu u gpszbmuzgbkgprlramgbmug.uxrllrlxagmugoupbgrlgmragmksau,gvl gak
fsimgbmugfkzug.uivsaugRgvfgnuztgorcuotgbkg.ugbmugovabgwkaauaakzgkpgft
zviu,gvl gbkgxrnugbmugovabgmvl gbkgrbjggPkz,gvagbkgftgkqlgwvzbrisovz
vwworivbrkl,glurbmuzgbmugwouvaszugkpg.sro rlx,gqmrimgbmutgavtgragak
.uqrbimrlx,glkzgmslbrlx,glkzgxvz ula,glkzgbmugkbmuzgwouvaszuagkpgv
zubrzu gorpu,givlgfsimgvfsaugfujggVl g‘bragqmvbgRgvfgvlxztgvbgftauopgpkz,
vagRgvfgpkzgvoogkbmuzgkwrlrklagbmvbgvzugrlikffk rksagbkgfu;gqmrimgRgqkso 
lkbgakgfsimgivzugbkgmvnugnrxkzksagvl gouvzlu ,gvagRgqkso gmvnugbmufguvat
vl giklnulrulbgpkzgorpu,gbmutgvzugbzsugvl gaksl gulksxm,grpgbmutgvzu
saupsogvl gwouvarlxjggAsimgvagmuvzgfug uiovzugftgrxlkzvliugrlgmsa.vl zt,
qmrawuzgrlgftguvzgbmvbgrbgrag ra vrl,gvl gbmvbgRgluxouibgbkgclkqgrba
rlabzsfulba,grbagauvakla,grbagkz uz,gmkqgbmutg zuaagftgnrlua,gmkqgbmut
xzvpb,gvl gbkgclkqgbmuglvfuagvl gpkzfagkpgmuz.agvl gpzsrba,gvl gbmu
wzuwvzrlxgbmugfuvbgklgqmrimgRgornu,gbmuglvfuagvl gwzriuagkpgbmugabsppagR
quvz,g.uivsau,gavtgbmut;gRgmvnugaubgftgmuvzbgswklgakfugmrxmuzgclkqou xu;
bmutgcroogfugrlgavtrlxgakjggRbgraglkbg ra vrl;grbgragpkoot,gvl gzvbmuz
abswr rbtgbmvlgxokzt;gRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugvgxkk gmkzaufvlgbmvlgvgxkk 
okxrirvl:

ggggggggg“Esrlgbkgvoresr gavobufgwkbrsa,geskzsfgrl rxubgsasa,
ggggggggggNrfrlr.sagfkooresugwvzvag ubuhuzugyslikj”

ggggg[“‘ kabgbmksglkbgzvbmuzg kgakfubmrlxgqmrimgragzuesrzu ,gvl gfvcu
gggggkaruzgvl gzuu g.vacubj”--Nrzxro,gUiokxj,grrjg71j]

Qugkiiswtgkszgbmksxmbagv.ksbgbmugxuluzvo,gvl gv.ksbgslrnuzavogivsauagvl 
ikl siba,gqmrimgqroognuztgquoogivzztgklgbmufauonuagqrbmksbgkszgivzu;gvl 
ouvnugkszgkqlg.sarluaagvbgzvl kf,gvl gFrimvuogfsimgfkzugkszgikliuzlgbmvl
fvljggLkqgRgvf,grl uu ,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgvbgmkfu;g.sbgRgqkso g.ugbmuzu
.ubbuzgwouvau gbmvlgvltqmuzuguoau:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Arbgfuvugau uagsbrlvfgauluibvu,
ggggggggggggggggggggArbgfk sagovaakgfvzra,gubgnrvzsf,
ggggggggggggggggggggFrorbrvuesuj”

ggggg[“Oubgftgko gvxugmvnugvgprhu gauvb;goubgbmuzug.ugvgorfrbgbkgpvbrxsua
gggggpzkfgbmugauv,gykszluta,gqvzpvzuj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg6,g6j]

RgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgkzglkgRgamvoog.zrlxgrbgv.ksbjggRgikso gqramgbmvb,
rlabuv gkpgakfugkbmuzgfuf.uzgkpgmragasiiuaarkl,gftgpvbmuzgmv gzuarxlu gbk
fugbmugwvaarklvbugvppuibrklgmugmv grlgmragko gvxugbkgmragmksaumko 
vppvrza;gmugqvagmvwwtgrlgbmvbgmugikso gviikffk vbugmrag uarzuagbkgmra
pkzbslu,gvl gavbraptgmrfauopgqrbmgqmvbgmugmv ;gwkorbrivogwmrokakwmtgfvt
bkgfsimgwszwkaugikl uflgbmugfuvlluaagvl gabuzrorbtgkpgftgufwoktfulb,grpgR
ivlgkliugikfugbkgzuoramgrb,gvagmug r jggRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgbmugfkab
mklkszv.ougivoorlxgragbkgauznugbmugws.ori,gvl gbkg.ugsaupsogbkgfvlt,

ggggg“Pzsibsagulrfgrlxulrrgubgnrzbsbra,gkflraesugwzvuabvlbrvu,
gggggbsfgfvhrfsagivwrbsz,gessfgrlgwzkhrfsfgesufesugiklpuzbsz:”

ggggg[“Pkzgbmugxzuvbuabgulyktfulbgkpgunrogvl gnrzbsu,gvl gkpgvoo
ggggguhiuoouliu,graguhwuzruliu gqmulgbmutgvzugiklpuzzu gklgakfugklu
gggggluvzuabj”--Iriuzk,g ugVfriroj,gij]

pkzgftauop,gRg raiovrfgrb;gwvzbotgksbgkpgiklairuliug(pkzgqmuzugRgauugbmu
qurxmbgbmvbgoruagswklgasimgufwoktfulba,gRgwuziurnugvoakgbmugorbbougfuvla
Rgmvnugbkgaswwotgrb;gvl gWovbk,gvgfvabuzgrlgvoogwkorbrivogxknuzlfulb
mrfauop,glunuzbmuouaagbkkcgivzugbkgv.abvrlgpzkfgrb),gvl gwvzbotgksbgkp
ikqvz riujggRgiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgulyktrlxgbmugqkzo gqrbmksbg.sabou;
klot-bkgornugvlguhisav.ougorpu,gvl gasimgvagfvtglurbmuzg.ugvg.sz ulgbk
ftauopglkzgbkgvltgkbmuzj

Lunuzg r gvltgfvlgfkzugpsootgvl gpuu.otgasppuzgmrfauopgbkg.ugxknuzlu g.t
vgbmrz gwuzaklgbmvlgRgamkso g k,gmv gRgvltgklugbkgqmkfgbkgulbzsabgftauopj
Klugkpgftgqramuagvbgbmragbrfugamkso g.u,gbkgmvnugvgakl-rl-ovqgbmvbgcluq
mvl akfuotgmkqgbkgimuzramgftgko gvxu,gvl gbkgzkicgrbgvaouuw;grlbkgqmkau
mvl agRgfrxmbg uwkarb,grlgpsoogaknuzurxlbt,gbmugfvlvxufulbgvl gsaugkpgvoo
ftgxkk a,gbmvbgmugfrxmbg rawkaugkpgbmufgvagRg k,gvl gxubg.tgbmufgqmvbgR
xub,gwzknr u gbmvbgmugklgmragwvzbgquzugbzsotgviclkqou xrlx,gvl gvgpzrul j
.sbgqugornugrlgvgqkzo gqmuzugoktvobtgkpgklu’agkqlgimro zulgragslclkqlj

Mugqmkgmvagbmugimvzxugkpgftgwszaugrlgmragbzvnuoa,gmvagrbgwszuotgvl 
qrbmksbgiklbzko;gmugikso gimuvbgfugbmkzksxmot,grpgmugivfugbkgzuicklrlx;
vl ,grpgmugraglkbgvg unro,gRgk.orxugmrfgbkg uvogpvrbmpsootgqrbmgfug.tgak
ulbrzugvgbzsab:

gggggggggg“Fsobrgpvoouzug kgisuzslb,g sfgbrfulbgpvoor;
ggggggggggubgvorragysagwuiivl rgasawrivl kgpuiuzslbj”

ggggg[“Fvltgmvnugbvsxmbgkbmuzagbkg uiurnu,gqmrougbmutgpuvzgbkg.u
ggggg uiurnu ,gvl ,g.tgasawuibrlxgbmuf,gmvnugxrnulgbmufgvgbrbougbkg k
gggggrooj”--Auluiv,gUwrabj,g3j]

BmugfkabgikffklgauiszrbtgRgbvcugkpgftgwukwougragrxlkzvliu;gRglunuz
wzuasfugvltgbkg.ugnrirksagbroogRgmvnugprzabgpksl gbmufgak;gvl gzuwkaugbmu
fkabgiklpr uliugrlgbmugtkslxuzgakzb,gbmvbgRgbmrlcgvzugouvabgawkrou g.t
rooguhvfwoujggRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugbko gvbgbqkgfklbma’gul gbmvbgRgmvnugawulb
pkszgmsl zu gizkqla,gbmvlgbkgmvnugftguvzag.vbbuzu gunuztglrxmbgqrbm
bmzuu,gprnu,gaunul:gvl gRgmvnug.uul,grlgbmragqvt,gvagorbbougzk..u gva
vlkbmuzjggRbgragbzsu,gRgvfgqroorlxgulksxmglkbgbkgauugrb;gR,grlgakfugakzb,
wszwkauot,gmvz.kszgvgcrl gkpgwuzwouhu ,gsliuzbvrlgclkqou xugkpgftgfklut:
swgbkgvgiuzbvrlgwkrlb,gRgvfgiklbulbgbkg ks.bjggKlugfsabgouvnugvgorbbou
zkkfgpkzgbmugrlpr uorbtgkzgrl raizubrklgkpgvgauznvlb;grpgtksgmvnugoupb
ulksxm,grlgxzkaa,gbkg kgtkszg.sarluaa,goubgbmugknuzwosagkpgPkzbslu’a
or.uzvorbtgzslgvgorbbougfkzugpzuuotgvbgmuzgfuzit;g‘bragbmugxouvluz’a
wkzbrkljggVpbuzgvoo,gRg kglkbgakgfsimgnvosugbmugpr uorbtgkpgftgwukwougva
RgiklbuflgbmurzgrlysztjggQmvbgvgfuvlgvl gzr risoksagbmrlxgrbgragpkzgvgfvl
bkgabs tgmragfklut,gbkg uorxmbgrlgmvl orlxgvl gbuoorlxgrbgknuzgvl gknuz
vxvrl!gg‘Brag.tgbmragvnvzriugfvcuagrbagvwwzkvimuaj

RlgurxmbuulgtuvzagbmvbgRgmvnugmv gftguabvbugrlgft,gkqlgmvl a,gRgikso 
lunuzgwzunvrogqrbmgftauopgurbmuzgbkgzuv gknuzgftg uu agkzguhvfrlugft
wzrlirwvogvppvrza,gqmrimgksxmb,gkpgluiuaarbt,gbkgwvaagsl uzgftgclkqou xu
vl grlawuibrkljgg‘Braglkbgvgwmrokakwmrivog ra vrlgkpgqkzo otgvl 
bzvlarbkztgbmrlxa;gftgbvabugraglkbgwszrpru gbkgbmvbg uxzuu,gvl gRgnvosu
bmufgvbgvagxzuvbgvgzvbu,gvbgouvab,gvagbmutgvzugqkzbm;g.sbg‘bra,grlgbzsbm,
vlgrluhisav.ougvl gimro ramgovdrluaagvl gluxorxuliujggQmvbgqkso gRglkb
zvbmuzg kgbmvlgzuv gvgiklbzvib?ggkzgbmvl,gvagvgaovnugbkgftgkqlg.sarluaa,
bsf.ougknuzgbmkaug sabtgqzrbrlxa?ggkz,gqmrimgragqkzau,gbmkaugkpgvlkbmuz
fvl,gvagakgfvltg kglkqv vta,gbkgxubgfklut?ggRgxzs xuglkbmrlxg.sbgivzugvl 
bzks.ou,gvl gul uvnkszglkbmrlxgakgfsim,gvagbkg.ugivzuouaagvl gvbguvauj
Rgmv g.uulgfsimgprbbuz,gRg.uorunu,gikso grbgmvnug.uulgqrbmksbgk.orxvbrkl
vl gauznrbs u,gbkgmvnugornu gswklgvlkbmuzgfvl’agpkzbslugbmvlgftgkql:gvl ,
rl uu ,gRg kglkbgclkq,gqmulgRguhvfrlugrbgluvzuz,gqmubmuz,gviikz rlxgbkgft
msfksz,gqmvbgRgmvnugbkgasppuzgpzkfgftgvppvrzagvl gauznvlba,gmvaglkbgrlgrb
akfubmrlxgfkzugv.yuib,gbzks.ouakfu,gvl gbkzfulbrlxgbmvlgbmuzugqkso g.ugrl
auznrlxgvgfvlg.ubbuzg.kzlgbmvlgftauop,gqmkgqkso gxknuzlgfugqrbmgvgxulbou
zurl,gvl gvgorbbougvbgftgkqlgivau:

gggggggggg“Auznrbsagk.u rulbrvguabgpzvibrgvlrfrgubgv.yuibr,
ggggggggggvz.rbzrkgivzulbragaskj”

ggggg[“Auznrbs ugragbmugk.u ruliugkpgvgas. su gvl gv.yuibgfrl ,gqvlbrlx
gggggrbagkqlgpzuugqrooj”--Iriuzk,gWvzv kh,gNjgRj]

Izvbuag r gqkzau,gqmkgbmzuqgmrfauopgrlbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgwknuzbt,gklotgbk
zr gmrfauopgkpgbmugrliklnulruliuagvl givzuagkpgmragmksaujggBmragragqmvbgR
qkso glkbg k;gRgmvbugwknuzbtguesvootgqrbmgwvrl;g.sbgRgikso g.ugiklbulbgbk
imvlxugbmugcrl gkpgorpugRgornugpkzgvlkbmuzgbmvbgqvagmsf.ouzgvl gouaa
imvzxuv.ouj

Qmulgv.aulbgpzkfgmkfu,gRg rnuabgftauopgkpgvoogbmuaugbmksxmba,gvl gamkso 
.ugouaagikliuzlu gpkzgbmugzsrlgkpgvgbkquz,gbmvlgRgvf,gqmulgwzuaulb,gvb
bmugpvoogkpgvgbroujggFtgfrl graguvarotgikfwkau gvbg rabvliu,g.sbgasppuza
vagfsimgvagbmvbgkpgbmugfuvluabgwuvavlbgqmulgRgvfgvbgmkfu;gbmugzurlagkpgft
.zr oug.urlxgqzklxotgwsbgkl,gkzgvgabzvwgpovwwrlxgvxvrlabgftgoux,gqroo
cuuwgfugksbgkpgmsfkszgvg vtgbkxubmuzjggRgzvraugftgikszvxu,gquoogulksxm
vxvrlabgrliklnulruliua:gorpbgswgftgutuagRgivllkb:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Aulasa,gkgaswuzr,gaulasaj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bmugaulaua,gKgtugxk a,gbmugaulauaj”]

Rgvfgvbgmkfugzuawklar.ougpkzgqmvbunuzgxkuagvfraajggPuqgfvabuzag(Rgawuvc
kpgbmkaugkpgfu rsfgikl rbrklgasimgvagfrlu),gvl grpgbmuzug.ugvltgasim,
bmutgvzugfkzugmvwwt,givlgzuotgakgfsimgswklgvlkbmuz,g.sbgbmvbgbmugxzuvbuab
wvzbgkpgbmug.sz ulgqroogorugswklgbmurzgkqlgamkso uzajggBmragbvcuagfsim
pzkfgftgxzviugrlgulbuzbvrlrlxgnrarbkza,gakgbmvbgRgmvnu,gwuzv nulbszu,
 ubvrlu gakfugzvbmuzgksbgkpguhwuibvbrklgkpgvgxkk g rlluz,gbmvlg.tgftgkql
.umvnrksz;gvl gokaugfsimgkpgbmugwouvaszugRgksxmbgbkgzuvwgvbgftgkqlgmksau
pzkfgbmugnrarbvbrklgvl gvaauf.orlxgkpgftgpzrul ajggBmugfkabgzr risoksa
ivzzrvxugkpgvgxulboufvlgrlgmragkqlgmksau,gragbkgauugmrfg.saborlxgv.ksb
bmug.sarluaagkpgbmugwoviu,gqmrawuzrlxgklugauznvlb,gvl gokkcrlxgvlgvlxzt
okkcgvbgvlkbmuz:grbgksxmbgrlaular.otgbkgaor ugvoklx,gvl gbkgzuwzuaulbgvl
kz rlvztgiszzulb;gvl gRgbmrlcgrbgslmvl akfugbkgbvocgfsimgbkgkszgxsuabagkp
bmurzgulbuzbvrlfulb,gqmubmuzg.tgqvtgkpg.zvxxrlxgkzguhisaujggRgoknugkz uz
vl giouvlorluaa--

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Ubgivlbmvzsagubgovlh
gggggggggggggggggggggggggKabul slbgfrmrgfu”--

gggggggggg[“Bmug ramuagvl gbmugxovaauagamuqgfugftgkqlgzupouibrklj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg5,g23]

fkzugbmvlgv.sl vliu;gvl gvbgmkfugmvnugvlguhvibgzuxvz gbkgluiuaarbt,
orbbougbkgksbqvz gamkqjggRpgvgpkkbfvlgpvooagbkgisppagvbgvlkbmuzgfvl’a
mksau,gkzgabsf.ougvl gbmzkqgvg ramg.upkzugmrfgvagmugragivzztrlxgrbgsw,
tksgklotgovsxmgvl gfvcugvgyuabgkl’b;gtksgaouuwgqmroabgbmugfvabuzgkpgbmu
mksaugragvzzvlxrlxgvg.roogkpgpvzugqrbmgmragabuqvz gpkzgtkszgfkzzkq’a
ulbuzbvrlfulbjggRgawuvcgviikz rlxgvagRg kgftauop;gesrbugvwwzuirvbrlx,
lunuzbmuouaa,gxkk gmsa.vl ztgrlgxuluzvo,gvl gmkqgwouvavlbgesrubgvl 
wzkawuzksagmksaumko gfvlvxufulb,givzzru gzuxsovzotgkl,gragbkgakfu
lvbszua;gvl glkbgqramrlxgbkgpvabulgftgkqlguzzkzagvl grliklnulruliuagbk
bmugbmrlx;glkzgbkgxrnugWovbkgbmugoru,gqmkgokkcagswklgrbgvagbmugfkab
wouvavlbgufwoktfulbgbkgunuztgklugbkg kgmragwvzbrisovzgvppvrzagqrbmksb
qzklxgbkgvlkbmuzj

QmulgRgbzvnuogRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgivzugpkzg.sbgftauop,gvl gbmugovtrlxgksb
ftgfklut;gqmrimgrag rawkau gkpg.tgklugarlxougwzuiuwb;gbkkgfvltgbmrlxagvzu
zuesrzu gbkgbmugzvcrlxgrbgbkxubmuz;grlgbmvbgRgsl uzabvl glkbmrlx;grl
awul rlx,gRgsl uzabvl gvgorbbou,gvl gmkqgbkgxrnugakfugamkqgbkgftguhwulau,
qmrimgragrl uu grbagwzrlirwvogsau;g.sbgRgzuotgbkkgvf.rbrksaotgswklgrb,
qmrimgzul uzagrbgsluesvogvl g rppkzf,gvl ,gfkzuknuz,grffk uzvbugrlg.kbm
bmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgvawuib;grpgrbgfvcuagvgamkq,grpgrbgauznugbmugbszl,
Rgrl raizuubotgoubgrbgzsl;gvl gvagrl raizuubotgbrugswgftgwszau-abzrlxa,
rpgrbg kuaglkbgamrlu,gvl g kuaglkbgwouvaugfujggQmvbunuzgrbg.u,gqmubmuz
vzbgkzglvbszu,gbmvbgrfwzrlbagrlgsagbmugikl rbrklgkpgornrlxg.tgzupuzuliu
bkgkbmuza,grbg kuagsagfsimgfkzugmvzfgbmvlgxkk ;gqug uwzrnugkszauonuagkp
kszgkqlgsbrorbrua,gbkgviikffk vbugvwwuvzvliuagbkgbmugikffklgkwrlrkl:
qugivzuglkbgakgfsimgqmvbgkszg.urlxgra,gvagbkgsagvl grlgzuvorbt,gvagqmvb
rbgragbkgbmugws.origk.auznvbrkljggUnulgbmugwzkwuzbruagkpgbmugfrl ,gvl 
qra kfgrbauop,gauufgpzsrbouaagbkgsa,grpgklotgulyktu g.tgkszauonua,gvl grp
rbgwzk siuglkbgrbauopgbkgbmugnruqgvl gvwwzk.vbrklgkpgkbmuzajggBmuzugragv
akzbgkpgfulgqmkaugxko gzslagrlgabzuvfagsl uzxzksl grfwuziuwbr.ot;gkbmuza
uhwkaugrbgvoogrlgwovbuagvl g.zvlimua;gakgbmvbgbkgbmugklugvgorvz gragqkzbm
vgizkql,gvl gbkgbmugkbmuzagbmugrlnuzau:gbmugqkzo guabuufrlxgrbagsaugvl 
nvosu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugamkqjggVoogknuz-lriugakorirbs ugv.ksbgzrimua
afuooagkpgvnvzriu:gunulgbmugnuztg rawkarlxgkpgrb,gqrbmgvgbkkgatabufvbri
vl gvzbrprirvogor.uzvorbt,graglkbgqkzbmgvgwvrlpsogaswuzrlbul uliugvl 
akorirbs u:gmu,gbmvbgqroogkz uzgmraguhwulaugbkgysabgakgfsim,gfvcuagrbgbkk
wrlimu gvl glvzzkqjggBmugcuuwrlxgkzgawul rlxgvzu,gkpgbmufauonua,
rl rppuzulbgbmrlxa,gvl gzuiurnuglkgikokszgkpgxkk gkzgroo,g.sbgviikz rlx
bkgbmugvwworivbrklgkpgbmugqrooj

Bmugkbmuzgivsaugbmvbgbufwbagfugksbgbkgbmuaugykszlutagra,grlvwbrbs ugpkz
bmugwzuaulbgfvlluzagrlgkszgabvbujggRgikso guvarotgiklakougftauopgpkzgbmra
ikzzswbrklgrlgzuxvz gbkgbmugws.origrlbuzuab:

gggggggggggggg“Wuykzvesugavuisovgpuzzr
gggggggggggggggBufwkzr.sa,geskzsfgaiuouzrglklgrlnulrbgrwav
gggggggggggggggLkful,gubgvglsookgwkasrbglvbszvgfubvook;”

ggggg[“Vl ,gqkzaugbmvlgbmugrzklgvxua,gpkzgqmkaugizrfuagbmuzugraglk
gggggarfrorbs ugrlgvltgkpgLvbszu’agfubvoaj”--Ysnulvo,ghrrrjg28j]

.sbglkbgbkgftgkqljggRgvf,grlgwvzbrisovz,gbkkgfsimgkwwzuaau g.tgbmuf:gpkz,
rlgftglurxm.kszmkk ,gqugvzu,gkpgovbu,g.tgbmugoklxgoriuliugkpgkszgirnro
qvza,gxzkqlgko grlgakgzrkbksagvgpkzfgkpgabvbu,

ggggggggggggggg“Esrwwugs.rgpvagnuzasfgvbesuglupva,”

gggggggggg[“Qmuzugqzklxgvl gzrxmbgmvnugimvlxu gwoviuaj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjg504j]

bmvbgrlguvzluab,g‘bragvgqkl uzgmkqgrbgivlgas.arab:

gggggggggg“Vzfvbrgbuzzvfguhuziulb,gaufwuzesugzuiulbua
ggggggggggIklnuibvzugysnvbgwzvu va;gubgnrnuzugzvwbkj”

ggggg[“Fulgwoksxm,gxrzbgqrbmgvzfa;gunuzg uorxmbrlxgrlgpzuamgzk..uzrua,
gggggvl gornrlxg.tgzvwrluj”--VUlur ,gnrrjg748j]

Rlgprlu,gRgauug.tgkszguhvfwou,gbmvbgbmugakirubtgkpgfulgragfvrlbvrlu gvl 
muo gbkxubmuz,gvbgqmvbgwzriugakunuz;grlgqmvbgikl rbrklgakunuzgbmutgvzu
woviu ,gbmutgabroogiokaugvl gabricgbkxubmuz,g.kbmgfknrlxgvl grlgmuvwa;gva
roogslrbu g.k rua,gbmvb,gamsppou gbkxubmuzgqrbmksbgkz uz,gprl gkp
bmufauonuagvgfuvlagbkgslrbugvl gaubbou,gkpbulg.ubbuzgbmvlgbmutgikso gmvnu
.uulg rawkau g.tgvzbjggCrlxgWmrorwgfsabuzu gswgvgzv..ougkpgbmugfkab
qricu gvl grlikzzrxr.ougzvaivoagmugikso gwricgksb,gvl gwsbgbmufgvoo
bkxubmuzgrlbkgvgirbtgmugmv givsau gbkg.ug.srobgpkzgbmvbgwszwkau,gqmrim
.kzugbmurzglvfu:gRg.uorunugbmvbgbmut,gunulgpzkfgnriuagbmufauonua,guzuibu 
vgxknuzlfulbgvfklxabgbmuf,gvl gvgikffk rksagvl gysabgakirubtjggRgauu,glkb
klugvibrkl,gkzgbmzuu,gkzgvgmsl zu ,g.sbgfvlluza,grlgikffklgvl gzuiurnu 
sau,gakgpuzkirksa,guawuirvootgrlgrlmsfvlrbtgvl gbzuvimuzt,gqmrimgvzugbk
fugbmugqkzabgkpgvoognriua,gbmvbgRgmvnuglkbgbmugmuvzbgbkgbmrlcgkpgbmuf
qrbmksbgmkzzkz;gvl gvofkabgvagfsimgv frzugvagRg ubuabgbmuf:gbmuguhuzirau
kpgbmuaugarxlvognroovrlruagivzzruagqrbmgrbgvagxzuvbgarxlagkpgnrxkszgvl 
pkziugkpgakso,gvagkpguzzkzgvl g rakz uzjggLuiuaarbtgzuiklirouagvl g.zrlxa
fulgbkxubmuz;gvl gbmragviir ulbvogiklluibrklgvpbuzqvz agpkzfagrbauopgrlbk
ovqa:gpkzgbmuzugmvnug.uulgasim,gvagavnvxugvagvltgmsfvlgkwrlrklgikso 
ikliurnu,gqmk,glunuzbmuouaa,gmvnugfvrlbvrlu gbmurzg.k tgqrbmgvagfsim
muvobmgvl goulxbmgkpgorpugvagvltgWovbkgkzgVzrabkbougikso grlnulbjggVl 
iuzbvrlot,gvoogbmuaug uaizrwbrklagkpgwkorbrua,gpurxlu g.tgvzb,gvzugpksl 
bkg.ugzr risoksagvl gslprbgbkg.ugwsbgrlgwzvibriuj

Bmuaugxzuvbgvl gbu rksag u.vbuagv.ksbgbmug.uabgpkzfgkpgakirubt,gvl gbmu
fkabgikffk rksagzsouagbkg.rl gsa,gvzug u.vbuagklotgwzkwuzgpkzgbmu
uhuziraugkpgkszgqrba;gvagrlgbmugvzbagbmuzugvzugaunuzvogas.yuibagqmrim
mvnugbmurzg.urlxgrlgvxrbvbrklgvl giklbzknuzat,gvl gmvnuglkgorpug.sb
bmuzujggAsimgvlgr uvgkpgxknuzlfulbgfrxmbg.ugkpgakfugnvosugrlgvgluqgqkzo ;
.sbgqugbvcugvgqkzo gvozuv tgfv u,gvl gpkzfu gbkgiuzbvrlgisabkfa;gqug k
lkbg.uxubgrb,gvagWtzzmvgkzgIv fsag r jgg.tgqmvbgfuvlagakunuzgqugfvtgmvnu
bmugwzrnrouxugbkgzu zuaagvl gzupkzfgrbgvluq,gqugivlgmvz otgqzrbmugrbgpzkf
rbagqklbu g.ulb,g.sbgqugamvoog.zuvcgvoojggAkoklg.urlxgvacu gqmubmuzgmu
mv guabv.oramu gbmug.uabgovqagmugikso gpkzgbmugVbmulrvla;g“Tua,”gavr gmu,
“kpgbmkaugbmutgqkso gmvnugzuiurnu j”ggNvzzkguhisauagmrfauopgvpbuzgbmu
avfugfvlluz:g“bmvbgrpgmugquzugbkg.uxrlgbkgqzrbugkpgzuorxrkl,gmugqkso gavt
qmvbgmug.uorunu ;g.sbgauurlxgrbgqvagvozuv tgzuiurnu ,gmugqkso gqzrbu
zvbmuzgviikz rlxgbkgsaugbmvlglvbszuj”

Lkbgviikz rlxgbkgkwrlrkl,g.sbgrlgbzsbmgvl gzuvorbt,gbmug.uabgvl gfkab
uhiuooulbgxknuzlfulbgpkzgunuztglvbrklgragbmvbgsl uzgqmrimgrbgra
fvrlbvrlu :grbagpkzfgvl guaaulbrvogiklnulruliug uwul gswklgisabkfj
Qugvzugvwbgbkg.ug rawouvau gvbgbmugwzuaulbgikl rbrkl;g.sbgR,
lunuzbmuouaa,gfvrlbvrlgbmvbgbkg uarzugikffvl grlgvgpuq--[vlgkorxvzimtj]--
rlgvgzuws.ori,gkzgvlkbmuzgakzbgkpgxknuzlfulbgrlgfklvzimtgbmvlgbmvb
vozuv tguabv.oramu ,grag.kbmgnriugvl gpkoot:

gggggggggggggg“Vtfugo’uabvb,gbuogesugbkgougnukraguabzu
gggggggggggggggA’roguabgzktvogvtfugovgzktvsbu;
gggggggggggggggA’roguabg ugwus,gksg.ruzagikffslvsbu,
gggggggggggggggVtfugo’vsaar;givzg rusgb’tgvgpvribglvrabzuj”

ggggg[“Oknugbmugxknuzlfulb,gasimgvagtksgauugrbgbkg.ujggRpgrbg.ugzktvo,
gggggoknugzktvobt;grpgrbgragvgzuws.origkpgvltgakzb,gabroogoknugrb;gpkz
gggggXk gmrfauopgizuvbu gbmuugbmuzurlj”]

Akgqzkbugbmugxkk gFklaruszg ugWr.zvi,gqmkfgqugmvnugovbuotgokab,gvgfvlgkp
akguhiuooulbgvgqrb,gasimgaksl gkwrlrkla,gvl gasimgxulbougfvlluzajggBmra
okaa,gvl gbmvbgvbgbmugavfugbrfugqugmvnugmv gkpgFklaruszg ugPkrh,gvzugkp
akgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliugbkgbmugizkql,gbmvbgRg kglkbgclkqgqmubmuzgbmuzugra
vlkbmuzgikswougrlgPzvliugqkzbmtgbkgaswwotgbmugwoviuagkpgbmuaugbqkgXvaikla
rlgarliuzrbtgvl gqra kfgrlgbmugikslirogkpgkszgcrlxajggBmutgquzug.kbm
nvzrksaotgxzuvbgful,gvl giuzbvrlot,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugvxu,gzvzugvl gxzuvb,
uvimgkpgbmufgrlgmragcrl :g.sbgqmvbg uabrltgqvagrbgbmvbgwoviu gbmufgrl
bmuaugbrfua,gfulgakgzufkbugpzkfgvl gakg rawzkwkzbrklu gbkgkszgikzzswbrkl
vl grlbuabrlugbsfsoba?

Lkbmrlxgwzuaauagakgmvz gswklgvgabvbugvagrllknvbrkl:gimvlxugklotgxrnua
pkzfgbkgrlysabriugvl gbtzvlltjggQmulgvltgwruiugragokkaulu ,grbgfvtg.u
wzkwuzgbkgabvtgrb;gklugfvtgbvcugivzugbmvbgbmugvobuzvbrklgvl gikzzswbrkl
lvbszvogbkgvoogbmrlxag kglkbgivzztgsagbkkgpvzgpzkfgkszg.uxrllrlxagvl 
wzrlirwoua:g.sbgbkgsl uzbvcugbkgpksl gakgxzuvbgvgfvaagvluq,gvl gbkgimvlxu
bmugpksl vbrklagkpgakgnvabgvg.sro rlx,gragpkzgbmufgbkg k,gqmkgbkgfvcu
iouvl,guppviu;gqmkgzupkzfgwvzbrisovzg upuibag.tgvlgslrnuzavogiklpsarkl,
vl giszug rauvauag.tg uvbm:

gggggg“Lklgbvfgikffsbvl vzsfgesvfgunuzbul vzsfgzuzsfgiswr rj”

ggggg[“Lkbgakg uarzksagkpgimvlxrlxgvagkpgknuzbmzkqrlxgbmrlxaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrjgrj]

Bmugqkzo gragslvwbgbkg.ugiszu ;gvl gakgrfwvbrulbgkpgvltbmrlxgbmvbgwzuaaua
rb,gbmvbgrbgbmrlcagkpglkbmrlxg.sbg raulxvxrlxgrbauopgvbgqmvbgwzriu
akunuzjggQugauug.tgvgbmksavl guhvfwoua,gbmvbgrbgkz rlvzrotgiszuagrbauop
bkgrbagikabjggBmug raimvzxugkpgvgwzuaulbgunrograglkgiszu,grpgbmuzug.uglkb
vgxuluzvogvful fulbgkpgikl rbrkljggBmugaszxukl’agul graglkbgklotgbkgisb
vqvtgbmug uv gpouam;gbmvbgrag.sbgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgmragiszu;gmugmvagvgivzu,
knuzgvl gv.knu,gbkgproogswgbmugqksl gqrbmg.ubbuzgvl gfkzuglvbszvogpouam,
vl gbkgzuabkzugbmugfuf.uzgbkgrbag sugabvbujggQmkunuzgklotgwzkwkauagbk
mrfauopgbkgzufknugbmvbgqmrimgkppul agmrf,gpvooagamkzb:gpkzgxkk g kuaglkb
luiuaavzrotgasiiuu gunro;gvlkbmuzgunrogfvtgasiiuu ,gvl gvgqkzau,gvagrb
mvwwulu gbkgIvuavz’agfsz uzuza,gqmkg.zksxmbgbmugzuws.origbkgasimgvgwvaa,
bmvbgbmutgmv gzuvaklgbkgzuwulbgbmugfu  orlxgqrbmgbmugfvbbuzjggBmugavfu
mvagarliugmvwwulu gbkgaunuzvogkbmuza,gunulg kqlgbkgkszgkqlgbrfua:gbmu
Pzulim,gftgiklbufwkzvzrua,gclkqgrbgquoogulksxmjggVoogxzuvbgfsbvbrkla
amvcugvl g rakz uzgvgabvbuj

Qmkunuzgqkso gokkcg rzuibgvbgvgiszu,gvl gquoogiklar uzgkpgrbg.upkzugmu
.uxvl,gqkso g.ugnuztgqroorlxgbkgqrbm zvqgmragmvl agpzkfgfu  orlxgrlgrbj
WvisnrsagIvovnrsagikzzuibu gbmugnriugkpgbmragwzkiuu rlxg.tgvglkbv.ou
uhvfwoujggMragpuookq-irbrdulagquzugrlgfsbrltgvxvrlabgbmurzgfvxrabzvbua;
mug.urlxgvgfvlgkpgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbtgrlgbmugirbtgkpgIvwsv,gpksl gfuvlagklu
 vtgbkgamsbgswgbmugAulvbkzagrlgbmugwvoviu;gvl givoorlxgbmugwukwou
bkxubmuzgrlgbmugfvzcub-woviu,gbmuzugbko gbmufgbmvbgbmug vtgqvaglkqgikfu
qmuzurlgvbgpsoogor.uzbtgbmutgfrxmbgzunulxugbmufauonuagklgbmugbtzvlbag.t
qmkfgbmutgmv g.uulgakgoklxgkwwzuaau ,gvl gqmkfgmugmv glkq,gvoogvoklugvl 
slvzfu ,gvbgmragfuzitjggMugbmulgv nrau gbmvbgbmutgamkso givoogbmuaugksb,
klug.tgklu,g.tgokb,gvl gamkso grl rnr svootg ubuzfrlugvagbkguvim,givsarlx
qmvbunuzgamkso g.ug uizuu gbkg.ugrffu rvbuotguhuisbu ;gqrbmgbmragwzknrak,
bmvbgbmutgamkso ,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,g uwsbugakfugmkluabgfvlgrlgbmugwoviu
kpgmrfgqmkgqvagikl uflu ,gbkgbmugul gbmuzugfrxmbg.uglkgnvivlitgrlgbmu
AulvbujggBmutgmv glkgakkluzgmuvz gbmuglvfugkpgklugaulvbkzg.sbgvgxzuvbgizt
kpgslrnuzavog raorcugqvagzvrau gswgvxvrlabgmrfjgg“Rgauu,”gavtagWvisnrsa,
“bmvbgqugfsabgwsbgmrfgksb;gmugragvgqricu gpuookq;goubgsagokkcgksbgvgxkk 
klugrlgmragzkkfj”ggRffu rvbuotgbmuzugqvagvgwzkpksl garouliu,gunuztgklu
.urlxgvbgvgabvl gqmkfgbkgimkkaujgg.sbgklu,gfkzugrfws ulbgbmvlgbmugzuab,
mvnrlxglvfu gmragfvl,gbmuzugvzkaugtubgvgxzuvbuzgiklaulbgkpgnkriuagvxvrlab
mrf,gvlgmsl zu grfwuzpuibrklag.urlxgovr gbkgmragimvzxu,gvl gvagfvltgysab
zuvaklagqmtgmugamkso glkbgabvl jggBmuaugiklbzv ribkztgmsfkszagxzkqrlx
mkb,grbgpvzu gqkzaugqrbmgbmugauikl gaulvbkzgvl gbmugbmrz ,gbmuzug.urlxgva
fsimg ravxzuufulbgrlgbmuguouibrklgkpgbmugluq,gvagiklaulbgrlgbmugwsbbrlx
ksbgkpgbmugko jggRlgbmugul ,gxzkqrlxgquvztgkpgbmrag.sabougbkglkgwszwkau,
bmutg.uxvl,gakfugklugqvtgvl gakfugvlkbmuz,gbkgabuvogksbgkpgbmugvaauf.ot:
unuztgklugivzztrlxg.vicgbmragzuakosbrklgrlgmragfrl ,gbmvbgbmugko uabgvl 
.uabgclkqlgunrogqvagunuzgfkzugaswwkzbv.ougbmvlgklugbmvbgqva,gluqgvl 
slbzru j

Auurlxgmkqgfrauzv.otgqugvzugvxrbvbu g(pkzgqmvbgmvnugquglkbg klu!)

gggggggggggggg“Umus!girivbzrisf,gubgaiuouzragws ub,
gggggggggggggggPzvbzsfesu:gesr glkag szvgzupsxrfsa
gggggggggggggggVUbva?ggesr grlbvibsfglupvabr
gggggggggggggggOresrfsa?ggSl ugfvlsagrlnulbsa
gggggggggggggggFubsg ukzsfgiklbrlsrb?ggesr.sa
gggggggggggggggWuwuzirbgvzraj”

ggggg[“Vova!gkszgizrfuagvl gkszgpzvbzrir uagvzugvgamvfugbkgsa!ggQmvb
gggggizrfug kuagbmrag.v gvxugamzrlcgpzkf?ggQmvbgqricu luaagmvnugqugoupb
gggggsl klu?ggQmvbgtksbmgragzuabzvrlu gpzkfgunrog.tgbmugpuvzgkpgbmugxk a?
gggggQmvbgvobvzgragawvzu ?”--Mkzviu,gK j,grjgg33,g35]

Rg kglkbgwzuaulbotgiklios u,

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“RwavgargnuorbgAvosa,
gggggggggggggggAuznvzugwzkzasaglklgwkbuabgmvligpvfrorvf;”

ggggg[“Rpgbmugxk  uaagAvosagmuzauopgqramgbkgavnugbmragpvfrot,gamu
gggggv.akosbuotgivllkb”--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grnjg7,g43j]

qugvzuglkb,gwuzv nulbszu,gvbgkszgovabgxvawjggBmugiklauznvbrklgkpgabvbua
ragvgbmrlxgbmvb,grlgvoogorcuormkk ,gaszwvaauagkszgsl uzabvl rlx;--vgirnro
xknuzlfulbgra,gvagWovbkgavta,gvgfrxmbtgvl gwsraavlbgbmrlx,gvl gmvz gbkg.u
 raakonu ;grbgkpbulgiklbrlsuagvxvrlabgfkzbvogvl grlbuabrlug rauvaua,
vxvrlabgbmugrlysztgkpgslysabgovqa,gvxvrlabgbtzvllt,gbmugikzzswbrklgvl 
rxlkzvliugkpgfvxrabzvbua,gbmugoriuliugvl gau rbrklgkpgbmugwukwoujggRlgvoo
kszgpkzbslua,gqugikfwvzugkszauonuagbkgqmvbgragv.knugsa,gvl gabroogokkc
bkqvz agbmkaugqmkgvzug.ubbuz:g.sbgoubgsagfuvaszugkszauonuagqrbmgqmvbgra
.uokqgsa:gbmuzugraglkgikl rbrklgakgfrauzv.ougqmuzurlgvgfvlgfvtglkbgprl gv
bmksavl guhvfwouagbmvbgqroogv frlrabuzgiklakovbrkljgg‘Bragkszgnriugbmvb
qugfkzugslqroorlxotgokkcgswklgqmvbgragv.knu,gbmvlgqroorlxotgswklgqmvbgra
.uokq;gvl gAkoklgqvagsau gbkgavt,gbmvbg“qmkunuzgqkso gfvcugvgmuvwgkpgvoo
bmugrooagbkxubmuz,gbmuzugraglkgklugqmkgqkso glkbgzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg.uvz
vqvtgbmugrooagmugmvagbmvlgbkgikfugbkgvlguesvog rnrarklgqrbmgvoogkbmuzgful
pzkfgbmvbgmuvw,gvl gbvcugmragamvzuj”ggKszgxknuzlfulbgra,grl uu ,gnuzt
aric,g.sbgbmuzugmvnug.uulgkbmuzagfkzugaricgqrbmksbg trlxjggBmugxk agwovt
vbg.voogqrbmgsagvl g.vl tgsagunuztgqvt:

gggggggggg“Ulrfnuzkg rrglkagmkfrluagesvargwrovagmv.ulbj”

Bmugabvzagpvbvootg uabrlu gbmugabvbugkpgZkfugpkzgvlguhvfwougkpgqmvbgbmut
ikso g kgrlgbmragcrl :grlgrbgvzugikfwzrau gvoogbmugpkzfagvl gv nulbszua
bmvbgikliuzlgvgabvbu:gvoogbmvbgkz uzgkzg rakz uz,gxkk gkzgunrogpkzbslu,
ivlg kjggQmk,gbmul,givlg uawvrzgkpgmragikl rbrkl,gauurlxgbmugamkicagvl 
ikffkbrklagqmuzuqrbmgZkfugqvagbsf.ou gvl gbkaau ,gvl gtubgqrbmabkk gbmuf
voo?ggRpgbmuguhbulbgkpg kfrlrklg.ugbmugmuvobmgkpgvgabvbug(qmrimgRg.tglk
fuvlagbmrlcgrbgra,gvl gRakizvbuagwouvauagfugqmulgmugrlabzsibagLrikioua
lkbgbkgulntgwzrliuagqmkgmvnugovzxug kfrlrkla,g.sbgbmkaugqmkgclkqgmkqgbk
wzuauznugbmkaugqmrimgmvnugpvooulgrlbkgbmurzgmvl a),gbmvbgkpgZkfugqva
lunuzgakgaksl ,gvagqmulgrbgqvagfkabgaricjggBmugqkzabgkpgmuzgpkzfagqvagbmu
fkabgpkzbslvbu;gklugivlgmvz otg raiuzlgvltgrfvxugkpgxknuzlfulbgsl uzgbmu
przabgufwuzkza;grbgragbmugfkabgmkzzr.ougvl gbsfsobsksagiklpsarklgbmvbgivl
.ugrfvxrlu ;grbgul szu grb,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gvl gbmuzurlgiklbrlsu ,
wzuauznrlxglkbgvgfklvzimtgorfrbu gqrbmrlgrbagkqlg.ksl a,g.sbgakgfvlt
lvbrklagakg rppuzrlx,gakgzufkbu,gakg ravppuibu ,gakgiklpsau otgikffvl u ,
vl gakgslysabotgiklesuzu :

gggggggggggggg“Luigxulbr.sagsoora
gggggggggggggggIkffk vbgrlgwkwsosf,gbuzzvgwuovxresugwkbulbuf,
gggggggggggggggRlnr rvfgpkzbslvgasvfj”

ggggg[“Pkzbsluglunuzgxvnugrbgbkgvltglvbrklgbkgavbraptgrbagmvbzu gvxvrlab
gggggbmugwukwou,gfvabuzagkpgbmugauvagvl gkpgbmuguvzbmj”--Osivl,grjg32j]

Unuztbmrlxgbmvbgbkbbuzag kuaglkbgpvoojggBmugiklbuhbszugkpgakgxzuvbgvg.k t
mko ag.tgfkzuglvroagbmvlgklu;grbgmko agunulg.tgrbagvlbresrbt,gorcugko 
.sro rlxa,gpzkfgqmrimgbmugpksl vbrklagvzugqkzlgvqvtg.tgbrfu,gqrbmksb
zksxm-ivabgkzgfkzbvz,gqmrimgtubgornugvl gaswwkzbgbmufauonuag.tgbmurzgkql
qurxmb:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Luigyvfgnvor ragzv rir.sagmvuzula,
ggggggggggggggggggggWkl uzugbsbvgaskguabj”

Fkzuknuz,grbgraglkbgzrxmbotgbkgxkgbkgqkzc,gbkguhvfrlugklotgbmugpovlcgvl 
bmugpkaa,gbkgys xugkpgbmugauiszrbtgkpgvgwoviu;gqugfsabgk.auznugqmrimgqvt
vwwzkvimuagivlg.ugfv ugbkgrb,gvl grlgqmvbgikl rbrklgbmugvaavrovlbgra:gpuq
nuaauoagarlcgqrbmgbmurzgkqlgqurxmb,gvl gqrbmksbgakfuguhbuzrkzgnrkouliuj
Lkq,goubgsagunuztqvtgivabgkszgutua;gunuztbmrlxgv.ksbgsagbkbbuza;grlgvoo
bmugxzuvbgabvbua,g.kbmgkpgImzrabul kfgvl guoauqmuzu,gbmvbgvzugclkqlgbk
sa,grpgtksgqroog.sbgokkc,gtksgqroogbmuzugauugunr ulbgfulviugkpgvobuzvbrkl
vl gzsrl:

ggggggggg“Ubgasvgaslbgrooragrlikffk v;gwvzesugwuzgkflua
ggggggggggBufwuabvaj”

gggggggggg[“Bmutgvoogamvzugrlgbmugfraimrup;gbmugbufwuabgzvxua
ggggggggggunuztqmuzuj”--VUlur ,grrj]

Vabzkokxuzagfvtgnuztgquoo,gvagbmutg k,gqvzlgsagkpgxzuvbgzunkosbrklagvl 
rffrlulbgfsbvbrkla:gbmurzgwzkwmuiruagvzugwzuaulbgvl gwvowv.ou,gbmutgluu 
lkbgxkgbkgmuvnulgbkgpkzubuoogbmrajggBmuzugraglkbgklotgiklakovbrklgbkg.u
uhbzvibu gpzkfgbmragslrnuzavogikf.rlvbrklgkpgrooagvl gfulviua,g.sb,
fkzuknuz,gakfugmkwuagkpgbmugiklbrlsvbrklgkpgkszgabvbu,gpkzvafsimgva,
lvbszvoot,glkbmrlxgpvooagqmuzugvoogpvooa:gslrnuzavogaricluaagra
wvzbrisovzgmuvobm:giklpkzfrbtgragvlbvxklrabrigbkg raakosbrkljggPkzgft
wvzb,gRg uawvrzglkb,gvl gpvlitgbmvbgRg raiknuzgqvtagbkgavnugsa:

ggggggggggggggggggg“ usagmvuigpkzbvaaug.ulrxlv
ggggggggggggggggggggZu siubgrlgau ufgnriuj”

ggggg[“Bmug urbtgqroogwuzimvliug.tgvgpvnkszv.ougbszlgzuabkzugsagbkgksz
gggggpkzfuzgwkarbrklj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,ghrrrjg7j]

Qmkgclkqag.sbgbmvbgXk gqroogmvnugrbgmvwwul,gvagrlgmsfvlg.k ruagbmvbgwszxu
vl gzuabkzugbmufauonuagbkgvg.ubbuzgabvbug.tgoklxgvl gxzrunksagfvov rua,
qmrimgzul uzgbmufgfkzugulbrzugvl gwuzpuibgmuvobmgbmvlgbmvbgbmutgbkkcgpzkf
bmuf?ggBmvbgqmrimgqurxmagbmugfkabgqrbmgfugra,gbmvbgrlgzuicklrlxgbmu
atfwbkfagkpgkszgroo,gRgauugvagfvltglvbszvogklua,gvl gbmvbgMuvnulgaul a
sa,gvl gwzkwuzotgrbagkql,gvagkpgbmkaugbmvbgkszg rakz uzgvl gmsfvl
rfwzs uliugiklbzr.sbugbkgrbjggBmugnuztgabvzagauufgbkg uiovzugbmvbgqugmvnu
vozuv tgiklbrlsu goklxgulksxm,gvl g.utkl gbmugkz rlvztgbuzfjggBmragvoak
vpporibagfu,gbmvbgbmugfraimrupgqmrimgluvzuabgbmzuvbulagsa,graglkbgvl
vobuzvbrklgrlgbmugulbrzugvl gakor gfvaa,g.sbgrbag raarwvbrklgvl 
 rnsoarkl,gqmrimgragbmugfkabguhbzufugkpgkszgpuvzaj

R,gfkzuknuz,gpuvz,grlgbmuaugpvlbvaruagkpgfrlu,gbmugbzuvimuztgkpgft
fufkzt,gouab,g.tgrlv nuzbuliu,grbgamkso gfvcugfugqzrbugbmugavfugbmrlx
bqriujggRgmvbugbkguhvfrlugftauop,gvl glunuzgzunruq,g.sbgnuztgslqroorlxot,
qmvbgmvagkliuguaivwu gftgwuljggRgmuzugaubg kqlglkbmrlxgluqjggBmuaugvzu
ikffklgbmksxmba,gvl gmvnrlx,gwuzv nulbszu,gikliurnu gbmufgvlgmsl zu 
brfua,gRgvfgvpzvr gRgmvnugaubgbmufg kqlgakfuqmuzuguoaugvozuv tj
Zuwubrbrklgragunuztqmuzugbzks.ouakfu,gbmksxmgrbgquzugrlgMkfuz;g.sbg‘bra
zsrlksagrlgbmrlxagbmvbgmvnugklotgvgaswuzprirvogvl gbzvlarbkztgamkqjggRg k
lkbgoknugknuz-rlarabrlx,gunulgrlgbmugfkabgwzkprbv.ougbmrlxa,gvagrl
Auluiv;gvl gbmugsavxugkpgmragabkrivogaimkkog rawouvauagfu,gbkgzuwuvb,
swklgunuztgas.yuib,gvbgpsoogoulxbmgvl gqr bmgbmugwzrlirwouagvl 
wzuaswwkarbrklagbmvbgauznugrlgxuluzvo,gvl gvoqvtagbkgzuvoou xugvluq
ikffklgvl gslrnuzavogzuvaklaj

Ftgfufkztgxzkqagizsuootgqkzaugunuztg vt:

ggggggggggggggggggg“WkisovgOubmvukagsbgarg siulbrvgakflka,
ggggggggggggggggggggVzulbugpvsiugbzvhuzrf;”

ggggg[“Vagrpgftg ztgbmzkvbgmv g zslcgau sirlxgiswagkpgOubmvuvl
gggggk.ornrklj”--Mkzviu,gUwk j,ghrnjg3j]

Rgfsabg.ugpvrlgpkzgbmugbrfugbkgikfug(pkzgmrbmuzbk,gbmvlcag.ugbkgXk ,
lkbmrlxgmvagmvwwulu gfsimgvfraa),gqmuzuvagkbmuzagauucgbrfugvl 
kwwkzbslrbtgbkgbmrlcgkpgqmvbgbmutgmvnugbkgavt,gbkgvnkr gvoogwzuwvzvbrkl,
pkzgpuvzgkpgbtrlxgftauopgbkgakfugk.orxvbrklgswklgqmrimgRgfsabgrlarabjggBk
.ugbru gvl g.ksl gbkgvgbmrlxgwsbagfugesrbugksb,gvl gbkg uwul gswklgak
quvcgvlgrlabzsfulbgvagftgfufkztjggRglunuzgzuv gbmragpkookqrlxgabkztgbmvb
Rgvfglkbgkppul u gvbgrbgqrbmgvgwuzaklvogvl glvbszvogzuaulbfulb:
Otliuabua,gviisau gkpgiklawrzvitgvxvrlabgVouhvl uz,gbmug vtgbmvbgmugqva
.zksxmbgksbg.upkzugbmugvzft,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugisabkf,gbkg.ugmuvz gvagbk
qmvbgmugikso gavtgpkzgmrfauop,gmv gouvzlu gvgabs ru gawuuim,gkpgqmrim,
muarbvbrlxgvl gabvffuzrlx,gmugwzklksliu gakfugqkz ajggQmroabgxzkqrlxgfkzu
vl gfkzugwuzwouhu ,gqmroabgabzsxxorlxgqrbmgmragfufkzt,gvl gbztrlxgbk
zuikoouibgqmvbgmugmv gbkgavt,gbmugako ruzagluvzuabgbkgmrfgimvzxu gbmurz
wrcuagvxvrlabgmrfgvl gcroou gmrf,gokkcrlxgswklgmrfgvagiklnrib;gmra
iklpsarklgvl garouliugauznu gbmufgpkzgvgiklpuaarkl;gpkzgmvnrlxgmv gak
fsimgouraszugbkgwzuwvzugmrfauopgrlgwzrakl,gbmutgiklios u gbmvbgrbgqvaglkb
mragfufkztgbmvbgpvrou gmrf,g.sbgbmvbgmragiklairuliugbru gswgmragbklxsu
vl gabkwwu gmragfksbmjggVl ,gbzsot,gquoogavr ;gbmugwoviu,gbmugvaauf.ot,
bmuguhwuibvbrkl,gvabksl gvgfvl,gunulgqmulgmugmvag.sbgbmugvf.rbrklgbk
awuvcgquoo;gqmvbgivlgvgfvlg kgqmulg‘bragvlgmvzvlxsugswklgqmrimgmragorpu
 uwul a?

Pkzgftgwvzb,gbmugnuztg.urlxgbru gbkgqmvbgRgvfgbkgavtgragulksxmgbkgokkau
fugpzkfgrbjggQmulgRgqmkootgikffrbgvl gzupuzgftauopgbkgftgfufkzt,gRgovtgak
fsimgabzuaagswklgrbgbmvbgrbgarlcagsl uzgfu:grbgxzkqag rafvtu gqrbmgbmu
.sz uljggAkgfsimgvagRgbzsabgbkgrb,gakgfsimg kgRgwsbgftauopgksbgkpgftgkql
wkquz,gunulgbkgbmugprl rlxgrbg rpprisobgbkgcuuwgftgkqlgikslbulvliu;gvl 
mvnug.uulgakfubrfuagnuztgfsimgwsbgbkgrbgbkgikliuvogbmugaovnuztgqmuzurlgR
qvagulxvxu ;gqmuzuvagftg uarxlgragbkgfvlrpuab,grlgawuvcrlx,gvgwuzpuib
ivofluaag.kbmgkpgpviugvl gviiulb,gvl givasvogvl gslwzufu rbvbu gfkbrkla,
vagzrarlxgpzkfgwzuaulbgkiivarkla,gimkkarlxgzvbmuzgbkgavtglkbmrlxgbk
wszwkaugbmvlgbkgamkqgbmvbgRgivfugwzuwvzu gbkgawuvcgquoo,gvgbmrlx
uawuirvootgsl.uikfrlxgvgfvlgkpgftgwzkpuaarkl,gvl gkpgbkkgxzuvbgk.orxvbrkl
klgmrfgqmkgivllkbgzubvrlgfsimjggBmugwzuwvzvbrklg.uxubagvgxzuvbg uvogfkzu
uhwuibvbrklgbmvlgrbgqroogavbraptjggVgfvlgkpbulgabzrwagmrfauopgbkgmra
 ks.oubgbkgouvwglkgpvzbmuzgbmvlgmugqkso gmvnug klugrlgmragxkql:

gggggggggg“Lrmroguabgmra,gesrgwoviuzugnkoslb,gbszlgv nuzavzrsf,
ggggggggggesvfguhwuibvbrkj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragakgv nuzaugbkgbmkaugqmkgfvcugrbgbmurzg.sarluaagbk
gggggwouvaugvaguhwuibvbrkl”--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg4]

Rbgragzuikz u gkpgbmugkzvbkzgIszrk,gbmvbgqmulgmugwzkwkau gbmug rnrarklgkp
mragkzvbrklgrlbkgbmzuugkzgpkszgwvzba,gkzgbmzuugkzgpkszgvzxsfulbagkz
zuvakla,grbgkpbulgmvwwulu gurbmuzgbmvbgmugpkzxkbgakfugklu,gkzgv  u gklu
kzgbqkgfkzujggRgmvnugvoqvtagvnkr u gpvoorlxgrlbkgbmragrliklnulruliu,
mvnrlxgunuzgmvbu gbmuaugwzkfrauagvl gwzuaizrwbrkla,glkbgklotgksbgkp
 rabzsabgkpgftgfufkzt,g.sbgvoakg.uivsaugbmragfubmk gzuoramuagbkkgfsimgkp
bmugvzbrab:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Arfworirkzvgfrorbvzuag uiulbj”

ggggg[“Arfworirbtg.uikfuagqvzzrkzaj”--Esrlbrorvl,gRlabrbjgKzvbj,ghrjgRj]

‘BragulksxmgbmvbgRgmvnugwzkfrau gbkgftauopglunuzgvxvrlgbkgbvcugswklgfu
bkgawuvcgrlgvgwoviugkpgzuawuib,gpkzgvagbkgawuvcrlx,gqmulgvgfvlgzuv agmra
awuuim,g.uar uagbmvbgrbgragnuztgv.asz ,grbgragvgfrxmbtg rav nvlbvxugbk
bmkaugqmkglvbszvootgikso gxrnugrbgvgxzviug.tgvibrkl;gvl gbkgzuotgswklgbmu
fuzitgkpgftgwzuaulbgrlnulbrkl,gRgqkso gfsimgouaag kgrb;g‘bragmuvntgvl 
wuzwouhu ,gvl gasimgvagqkso glunuzgpszlramgfugrlgas  ulgvl grfwkzbvlb
luiuaarbruaj

Wuzfrb,gzuv uz,gbmraguaavtgrbagikszaugvoak,gvl gbmragbmrz garbbrlxgbk
prlramgbmugzuabgkpgftgwribszu:gRgv  ,g.sbgRgikzzuibglkbjggPrzab,g.uivsau
Rgikliurnugbmvbgvgfvlgmvnrlxgkliugwvzbu gqrbmgmragov.kszagbkgbmugqkzo ,
mugmvaglkgpszbmuzgzrxmbgbkgbmuf;goubgmrfg kg.ubbuzgrpgmugivl,grlgakfugluq
sl uzbvcrlx,g.sbglkbgv sobuzvbugqmvbgmugmvagvozuv tgako jggKpgasim
 uvouzaglkbmrlxgamkso g.ug.ksxmbgbroogvpbuzgbmutgvzug uv jggOubgbmufgquoo
iklar uzgqmvbgbmutg kg.upkzugbmut,gwzk siugrbgbkgbmugorxmbgqmkgmvabula
bmuf?ggFtg.kkcgragvoqvtagbmugavfu,gavnrlxgbmvbgswklgunuztgluqgu rbrkl
(bmvbgbmug.stuzgfvtglkbgxkgvqvtgesrbugufwbt)gRgbvcugbmugor.uzbtgbkgv  
(vag‘brag.sbgvlgroogykrlbu gfvzesubuzru)gakfugaswuzlsfuzvztguf.ouf;grbgra
.sbgknuzqurxmb,gbmvbg kuaglkbg raprxszugbmugwzrfrbrnugpkzfgkpgbmuguaavta,
.sb,g.tgvgorbbougvzbpsogas.boubt,gxrnuagvgcrl gkpgwvzbrisovzgnvosugbk
unuztgklugkpgbmkaugbmvbgpkookqjggBmuliu,gmkqunuz,gqrooguvarotgmvwwulgakfu
bzvlawkarbrklgkpgimzklkokxt,gftgabkzruagbvcrlxgwoviugviikz rlxgbkgbmurz
kwwkzbsluluaa,glkbgvoqvtagviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgvxuj

Auikl ot,g.uivsaugvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagftauop,gRgpuvzgbkgokaug.tgimvlxu:
ftgsl uzabvl rlxg kuaglkbgvoqvtagxkgpkzqvz ,grbgxkuag.vicqvz gbkkjggRg k
lkbgfsimgouaagasawuibgftgpvliruagpkzg.urlxgbmugauikl gkzgbmugbmrz ,gbmvl
pkzg.urlxgbmugprzab,gkzgwzuaulb,gkzgwvab;gqugkpbulgikzzuibgkszauonuagva
pkkoramotgvagqug kgkbmuzajggRgvfgxzkqlgko uzg.tgvgxzuvbgfvltgtuvzagarliu
ftgprzabgws.orivbrkla,gqmrimgquzugrlgbmugtuvzg1580;g.sbgRgnuztgfsimg ks.b
qmubmuzgRgvfgxzkqlgvlgrlimgbmugqrauzjggRglkq,gvl gRgvlkl,gvzugbqkgaunuzvo
wuzakla;g.sbgqmubmuzg.ubbuz,gRgivllkbg ubuzfrlujggRbgquzugvgprlugbmrlxgbk
.ugko ,grpgqugklotgbzvnuoou gbkqvz agrfwzknufulb;g.sbg‘bragvg zslcul,
absf.orlx,gzuuorlx,grlprzfgfkbrkl:gorcugbmvbgkpgzuu a,gqmrimgbmugvrz
ivasvootgqvnuagbkgvl gpzkgvbgwouvaszujggVlbrkimsagmv grlgmragtksbm
abzklxotgqzrbbulgrlgpvnkszgkpgbmugViv uft;grlgmragko gvxugmugqzkbugva
fsimgvxvrlabgrb;gqkso glkb,gqmrimgkpgbmuaugbqkgakunuzgRgamkso gpkookq,g.u
abroogVlbrkimsa?ggVpbuzgmvnrlxguabv.oramu gbmugsliuzbvrlbt,gbkgxkgv.ksb
bkguabv.oramgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgmsfvlgkwrlrkla,gqvagrbglkbgbkguabv.oram
 ks.b,gvl glkbgiuzbvrlbt,gvl gbkgwzkfrau,gbmvbgmv gmugmv gtubgvlkbmuzgvxu
bkgornu,gmugqkso g.ugvoqvtagswklgbuzfagkpgvobuzrlxgmragys xfulb,glkbgak
fsimgpkzgbmug.ubbuz,gvagpkzgakfubmrlxguoau?

Bmugws.origpvnkszgmvagxrnulgfugvgorbbougfkzugiklpr uliugbmvlgRguhwuibu ;
.sbgqmvbgRg‘fkabgpuvzgra,gouabgRgamkso gxosbgbmugqkzo gqrbmgftgqzrbrlxa;
Rgmv gzvbmuz,gkpgbmugbqk,gwresugftgzuv uzgbmvlgbrzugmrf,gvagvgouvzlu gfvl
kpgftgbrfugmvag klujggWzvraugragvoqvtagwouvarlx,goubgrbgikfugpzkfgqmkf,
kzgswklgqmvbgviikslbgrbgqroo;gtubgksxmbgvgfvlgbkgsl uzabvl gqmtgmugra
ikfful u ,gbmvbgmugfvtgclkqgmkqgbkgcuuwgswgbmugavfugzuwsbvbrklgabroo:
rfwuzpuibrklagbmufauonuagfvtgxubgikfful vbrkljggBmugnsoxvzgvl gikffkl
uabrfvbrklgragauo kfgmvwwtgrlgmrbbrlx;gvl gRgvfgfsimgfrabvculgrp,gvfklxab
bmugqzrbrlxagkpgftgbrfu,gbmugqkzabgvzuglkbgbmkaugqmrimgmvnugfkabgxvrlu 
bmugwkwsovzgvwwovsaujggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgzubszlgftgbmvlcagbkgbmkau
xkk -lvbszu gfulgqmkgvzugwouvau gbkgbvcugftgquvcgul uvnkszagrlgxkk gwvzb;
bmugpvsobagkpgbmugqkzcfvlamrwgvzuglkqmuzugakgvwwvzulbgvagrlgvgfvbbuz
qmrimgkpgrbauopgmvaglkgzuikfful vbrkljgg.ovfuglkbgfu,gzuv uz,gpkzgbmkau
bmvbgaorwgrlgmuzug.tgbmugpvlitgkzgrlv nuzbulitgkpgkbmuza;gunuztgmvl ,
unuztgvzbravl,giklbzr.sbugbmurzgkqlgfvbuzrvoa;gRglurbmuzgikliuzlgftauop
qrbmgkzbmkxzvwmtg(vl gklotgivzugbkgmvnugrbgvpbuzgbmugko gqvt)glkz
wkrlbrlx,g.urlxgnuztgrluhwuzbg.kbmgrlgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzjggQmuzugbmut
qmkootg.zuvcgbmugaulau,gRgvfgnuztgorbbougikliuzlu ,gpkzgbmutgvbgouvab
 raimvzxugfu;g.sbgqmuzugbmutgas.abrbsbugvgpvoaugklu,gvagbmutgakgkpbulg k,
vl gqzuabgfugbkgbmurzgikliuwbrkl,gbmutgzsrlgfujggQmulgbmugaulbuliu,
lunuzbmuouaa,graglkbgabzklxgulksxmgpkzgftgwzkwkzbrkl,gvgirnrogwuzakl
ksxmbgbkgzuyuibgrbgvagawszrksa,gvl glklugkpgfrlujggQmkunuzgamvoogclkqgmkq
ovdtgRgvf,gvl gmkqgrl soxulbgbkgftgkqlgmsfksz,gqrooguvarotg.uorunugbmvbgR
mv gzvbmuzgqzrbugvagfvltgfkzuguaavta,gbmvlg.ugbru gbkgzunraugbmuaugknuz
vxvrlgpkzgakgimro ramgvgikzzuibrklj

Rgavr guoauqmuzu,gbmvbg.urlxgwovlbu grlgbmugnuztgiulbzugkpgbmragluq
zuorxrkl,gRgvfglkbgklotg uwzrnu gkpgvltgxzuvbgpvfrorvzrbtgqrbmgfulgkp
kbmuzgcrl gkpgfvlluzagbmvlgftgkql,gvl gkpgkbmuzgkwrlrkla,g.tgqmrimgbmut
mko gbkxubmuz,gvag.tgvgbrugbmvbgaswuzau uagvoogkbmuzgk.orxvbrkla;g.sb
fkzuknuzgRg kglkbgornugqrbmksbg vlxuz,gvfklxabgfulgbkgqmkfgvoogbmrlxagvzu
uesvootgovqpso,gvl gkpgqmkfgbmugfkabgwvzbgivllkbgkppul gbmugovqagfkzu
bmvlgbmutgmvnugvozuv tg klu;gpzkfgqmrimgbmuguhbzufrabg uxzuugkpgoriuliu
wzkiuu ajggVoogbmugwvzbrisovzg.urlxgasffu gswgbkxubmuz,gRg kglkbgprl gklu
fvlgkpgftgikslbzt,gqmkgwvtagakg uvzgpkzgbmug upuliugkpgkszgovqag.kbmgrl
okaagvl g vfvxuag(vagbmugovqtuzagavt)gvagftauop;gvl gakfugbmuzugvzugqmk
nvwkszgvl g.zvxgkpgbmurzgduvogvl giklabvlit,gbmvbgrpgbmrlxagquzugysabot
qurxmu ,g kgfsimgouaagbmvlgRjggFtgmksau,gvagklugbmvbgmvagunuzg.uulgkwul
vl gpzuugbkgvoogikfuza,gvl girnrogbkgvoog(pkzgRgikso glunuzgwuzasv u
ftauopgbkgfvcugrbgvgxvzzraklgkpgqvz,gqvzg.urlxgvgbmrlxgbmvbgRgwzupuzgbk
auugvagzufkbugvagfvtg.u),gmvagaspprirulbotgfuzrbu gwkwsovzgcrl luaa,gvl 
akgbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugvgmvz gfvbbuzgysabotgbkgrlasobgknuzgfugswklgftgkql
 slxmroo;gvl gRgokkcgswklgrbgvagvgqkl uzpsogvl guhufwovztgbmrlxgbmvbgrb
tubgiklbrlsuagvgnrzxrlgpzkfg.okk gvl gwosl uzg szrlxgakgoklxgvgabkzf,gvl 
akgfvltglurxm.kszrlxgzunkosbrklagvl gbsfsobajggPkzgbkgiklpuaagbmugbzsbm,
rbgmv g.uulgwkaar.ougulksxmgpkzgvgfvlgkpgftgikfwouhrklgbkgmvnugamvcul
mvl agqrbmgvltgklugiklabvlbgvl giklbrlsu gpkzfgqmvbunuz;g.sbgbmugiklbzvzt
rlnvarklagvl grliszarkla,gvobuzlvbrklagvl gnriraarbs uagkpgpkzbslugzksl 
v.ksbgfu,gmvnugmrbmuzbkgfkzuguhvawuzvbu gbmvlgivofu gvl gfkoorpru gbmu
bufwuzgkpgbmugikslbzt,gvl grlnkonu gfu,gknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrl,gqrbm
rlnrlir.oug rpprisobruagvl g vlxuzaj

Rguaivwu,g‘bragbzsu,g.sbgvfgbzks.ou gbmvbgrbgragfkzug.tgimvliu,gvl 
akfubmrlxgkpgftgkqlgwzs uliu,gbmvlg.tgysabriu;gvl gvfglkbgavbrapru gbkg.u
ksbgkpgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgbmugovqa,gvl gsl uzgvltgkbmuzgavpuxsvz gbmvl
bmurzajggVagfvbbuzagabvl ,gRgornu,gv.knugklugmvop,g.tgbmugpvnkszgkp
kbmuza,gqmrimgragvlgslbkqvz gk.orxvbrkljggRg kglkbgorcugbkgkqugftgavpubt
urbmuzgbkgbmugxuluzkarbtgkzgvppuibrklgkpgxzuvbgwuzakla,gqmkgvookqgfugft
ouxvorbtgvl gftgor.uzbt,gkzgbkgbmugk.orxrlxgfvlluzagkpgftgwzu uiuaakza,
kzgftgkql:gpkzgqmvbgrpgRgquzugvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgfvl?ggRpgftg uwkzbfulb,gvl 
bmugpzvlcluaagkpgftgiklnuzavbrklgkzgzuovbrklamrw,gk.orxugftglurxm.ksza,
‘bragbmvbgbmvbgbmutgamkso gviesrbgbmufauonuagkpgk.orxvbrklgrlgklot
wuzfrbbrlxgfugbkgornu,gvl gbmutgfvtgavt,g“Qugvookqgmrfgbmugpzuugor.uzbt
kpgmvnrlxg rnrlugauznriugzuv grlgmragkqlgwzrnvbugimvwuo,gqmulgrbgra
rlbuz ribu grlgvoogimszimuagzksl gv.ksb,gvl gvookqgmrfgbmugsaugkpgmra
xkk agvl gmragorpu,gvagklugqmkgwzkbuibagkszgqrnuagvl givbbougrlgbrfugkp
luu j”ggPkzgftgmksaugmvagpkzgfvltg uaiulbagamvzu grlgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkp
OtiszxsagbmugVbmulrvl,gqmkgqvagbmugxuluzvog uwkarbkztgvl gxsvz rvlgkpgbmu
wszauagkpgmragpuookq-irbrdulajggLkqgRgvfgiouvzotgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgvgfvl
amkso gornug.tgzrxmbgvl g.tgvsbmkzrbt,gvl glkbgurbmuzg.tgzuikfwulaugkz
pvnkszjggMkqgfvltgxvoovlbgfulgmvnugzvbmuzgimkaulgbkgokaugbmurzgornuagbmvl
bkg.ug u.bkzagpkzgbmuf?ggRgmvbugbkgas.yuibgftauopgbkgvltgakzbgkp
k.orxvbrkl,g.sbgv.knugvoo,gbkgbmvbgqmrimg.rl agfug.tgbmug sbtgkpgmklkszj
Rgbmrlcglkbmrlxgakg uvzgvagqmvbgmvag.uulgxrnulgfu,gvl gbmrag.uivsaugft
qroogoruagvbgwvqlgsl uzgbmugbrbougkpgxzvbrbs u,gvl gfkzugqroorlxotgviiuwb
kpgauznriuagbmvbgvzugbkg.ugako ;gRgpuuogbmvbgpkzgbmugovabgRgxrnuglkbmrlx
.sbgfklut,g.sbgpkzgbmugkbmuzgRgxrnugftauopj

Bmugclkbgbmvbg.rl agfug.tgbmugovqagkpgikszbuatg.rl agfugfkzugbmvlgbmvbgkp
irnrogiklabzvrlb;gRgvfgfsimgfkzugvbguvaugqmulg.ksl g.tgvgaizrnuluz,gbmvl
.tgftauopjggRagrbglkbgzuvaklgbmvbgftgiklairuliugamkso g.ugfsimgfkzu
ulxvxu gqmulgfulgarfwotgzuotgswklgrb?ggRlgvg.kl ,gftgpvrbmgkquaglkbmrlx,
.uivsaugrbgmvaglkbmrlxgoulbgrb;goubgbmufgbzsabgbkgbmugauiszrbtgbmutgmvnu
bvculgqrbmksbgfujggRgmv gfsimgzvbmuzg.zuvcgbmugqvoogkpgvgwzraklgvl gbmu
ovqagbmufauonuagbmvlgftgkqlgqkz jggRgvfglriu,gunulgbkgaswuzabrbrkl,grl
cuuwrlxgftgwzkfraua,gvl ,gbmuzupkzu,gswklgvoogkiivarklagmvnugvgivzugbk
fvcugbmufgsliuzbvrlgvl gikl rbrklvojggBkgbmkaugkpglkgxzuvbgfkfulb,gRgv  
bmugyuvoksatgkpgftgkqlgzsou,gbkgfvcugbmufgqurxmb;grbgqzvicagvl gkwwzuaaua
fugqrbmgrbagkqlgrlbuzuabjggUnulgrlgvibrklagqmkootgftgkqlgvl gpzuu,grpgR
kliugavtgvgbmrlx,gRgikliurnugbmvbgRgmvnug.ksl gftauop,gvl gbmvb
 uornuzrlxgrbgbkgbmugclkqou xugkpgvlkbmuz,gRgmvnugwkarbrnuotgulykrlu grb
ftgkqlgwuzpkzfvliujggFubmrlcagRgwzkfraugrb,grpgRg.sbgavtgrb:gvl 
bmuzupkzugvfglkbgvwbgbkgavtgfsimgkpgbmvbgcrl jggBmugaulbuliugbmvbgRgwvaa
swklgftauopgragfkzugaunuzugbmvlgbmvbgkpgvgys xu,gqmkgklotgiklar uzagbmu
ikffklgk.orxvbrkl;g.sbgftgiklairuliugokkcagswklgrbgqrbmgvgfkzugaunuzugvl 
wulubzvbrlxgutujggRgovxgrlgbmkaug sbruagbkgqmrimgRgamkso g.ugikfwuoou grp
Rg r glkbgxk:

ggggg“Mkigrwasfgrbvgysabsfguab,gesk gzuibugprb,garguabgnkoslbvzrsfj”

ggggg[“Bmragrbauopgragakgpvzgysab,gbmvbgrbgragzrxmbotg klu,grpgrbgra
gggggnkoslbvztj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg9j]

Rpgbmugvibrklgmvaglkbgakfugawoul kszgkpgor.uzbt,grbgmvaglurbmuzgxzviuglkz
mklksz:

gggggggggg“Esk gnkagysagikxrb,gnrhgnkoslbvbugrfwubzulb:”

ggggg[“Bmvbgqmrimgbmugovqagikfwuogsagbkg k,gqugaivziuotg kgqrbmgvgqrooj”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grrrjg3,g44j]

qmuzugluiuaarbtg zvqagfu,gRgoknugbkgoubgftgqroogbvcugrbagkqlgikszau:

gggggggggg“Esrvgesriesr grfwuzrkgikxrbsz,guhrxulbrgfvxra,
ggggggggggesvfgwzvuabvlbr,gviiuwbsfgzupuzbszj”

ggggg[“Pkzgqmvbunuzgragikfwuoou g.tgwkquz,gragfkzugrfwsbu gbkgmrfgbmvb
ggggguhvibagbmvlgbkgmrfgbmvbgwuzpkzfaj”--NvouzrsagFvhrfsa,grrjg2,g6j]

Rgclkqgakfugqmkgpkookqgbmragzsou,gunulgbkgrlysabriu;gqmkgqroogakkluzgxrnu
bmvlgzuabkzu,gakkluzgoul gbmvlgwvt,gvl gqroog kgbmufgbmugouvabgxkk gbk
qmkfgbmutgvzugfkabgk.orxu jggRg kl’bgxkgakgpvzgvagbmvb,g.sbgR’fglkbgpvz
kppj

Rgakgfsimgoknugbkg raulxvxugvl g rak.orxvbugftauop,gbmvbgRgmvnugakfubrfua
okkcu gswklgrlxzvbrbs ua,gvppzklba,gvl grl rxlrbruagqmrimgRgmvnugzuiurnu 
pzkfgbmkaugbkgqmkfgurbmuzg.tglvbszugkzgviir ulbgRgqvag.ksl grlgakfugqvt
kpgpzrul amrw,gvagvlgv nvlbvxugbkgfu;gbvcrlxgbmragkiivarklgkpgbmurz
roo-savxu,gpkzgvlgviesvrlbvliugvl g raimvzxugkpgakgfsimgkpgftg u.bjggVl 
bmksxmgRgabroogiklbrlsugbkgwvtgbmufgvoogbmuguhbuzlvogkppriuagkpgws.ori
zuvakl,gR,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gprl gvgxzuvbgavnrlxgrlg krlxgbmvbgswklgbmu
viikslbgkpgysabriugqmrimgRg r gswklgbmugaikzugkpgvppuibrkl,gvl gvfgv
orbbouguvau gkpgbmugvbbulbrklgvl gakorirbs ugkpgftgrlqvz gqroo:

ggggg“Uabgwzs ulbragasabrluzu,gsbgiszzsf,garigrfwubsfg.ulunkoulbrv;”

ggggg[“‘Bragbmugwvzbgkpgvgqraugfvlgbkgcuuwgvgisz.rlxgmvl gswklgbmu
gggggrfwubsagkpgpzrul amrw,gvagswklgbmvbgkpgmragmkzauj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugVfrirbj,gijg17j]

‘bragrlgfu,gbkkgszxrlxgvl gwzuaarlxgqmuzugRgbvcu;gvbgouvab,gpkzgvgfvlgqmk
oknuaglkbgbkg.ugabzvrlu gvbgvoojggVl gbmragmsa.vl rlxgftgpzrul amrw
auznuagfugpkzgvgakzbgkpgiklakovbrklgrlgbmugrfwuzpuibrklagkpgbmkaugrlgqmkf
Rgvfgikliuzlu jggRgvfgnuztgakzztgbmutgvzuglkbgasimgvagRgikso gqramgbmut
quzu,g.sbgbmulgRgvoakgvfgawvzu gakfuqmvbgkpgftgvwworivbrklgvl gulxvxufulb
bkqvz agbmufjggRgvwwzknugkpgvgfvlgqmkgragbmugouaagpkl gkpgmragimro gpkz
mvnrlxgvgaivo gmuv ,gkzgpkzg.urlxgizkkcu ;gvl glkbgklotgqmulgmugra
roo-ikl rbrklu ,g.sbgvoakgqmulgmugragkpgslmvwwtg rawkarbrkl,gvl grfwuzpuib
rlgmragorf.ag(Xk gmrfauopgmvagv.vbu gakgfsimgpzkfgmragnvosugvl glvbszvo
uabrfvbrkl),gwzknr u gmugivzztgmrfauopgrlgbmragiko luaagkpgvppuibrklgqrbm
fk uzvbrklgvl guhvibgysabriu:gwzkhrfrbt,gqrbmgfu,gouaaulaglkbg upuiba,
.sbgzvbmuzgvxxzvnvbuagbmufj

Vpbuzgvoo,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgRgsl uzabvl grlgbmugairuliugkpg.uluprbgvl 
viclkqou xfulb,gqmrimgragvgas.bougairuliu,gvl gkpgxzuvbgsau,gRgclkqglk
wuzaklgqmvbunuzgfkzugpzuugvl gouaagrl u.bu gbmvlgRgvfgvbgbmragmkszjggQmvb
Rg kgkqugragarfwotgbkgpkzurxlgk.orxvbrklagvl g.uluprba;gvagbkgvltbmrlx
uoau,glkgfvlgragfkzugv.akosbuotgiouvz:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Luigaslbgfrmrglkbvgwkbulbsf
ggggggggggggggggggggFsluzvj”

ggggg[“Bmugxrpbagkpgxzuvbgfulgvzugslclkqlgbkgfuj”--VUlur ,ghrrjg529j]

Wzrliuagxrnugfugvgxzuvbg uvogrpgbmutgbvcuglkbmrlxgpzkfgfu;gvl g kgfugxkk 
ulksxmgrpgbmutg kgfuglkgmvzf;gbmvb’agvoogRgvacgpzkfgbmufjggKgmkqgvfgR
k.orxu gbkgXk ,gbmvbgmugmvag.uulgwouvau gRgamkso grffu rvbuotgzuiurnu
pzkfgmrag.kslbtgvoogRgmvnu,gvl gawuirvootgzuauznu gvoogftgk.orxvbrklgbk
mrfauopjggMkqguvzluabotg kgRg.uxgkpgmragmkotgikfwvaarklgbmvbgRgfvtglunuz
kquguaaulbrvogbmvlcagbkgvltgklujggKgmvwwtgor.uzbtgqmuzurlgRgmvnugbmsagpvz
ornu jggFvtgrbgiklbrlsugqrbmgfugbkgbmugovabjggRgul uvnkszgbkgmvnuglk
uhwzuaagluu gkpgvltgklu:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgfugkflragawuiguabgfrmrj”

ggggg[“Voogftgmkwugragrlgftauopj”--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,grrrjg5,g9j]

‘Bragqmvbgunuztgklugfvtg kgrlgmrfauop,g.sbgfkzuguvarotgbmutgqmkfgXk gmva
woviu grlgvgikl rbrklguhufwbgpzkfglvbszvogvl gszxulbgluiuaarbruajggRbgra
vgqzubimu gvl g vlxuzksagbmrlxgbkg uwul gswklgkbmuza;gqugkszauonua,grl
qmkfgragunuzgbmugfkabgysabgvl gavpuabg uwul uliu,gvzuglkbgaspprirulbot
aszuj

Rgmvnuglkbmrlxgfrlug.sbgftauop,gvl gtubgbmugwkaauaarklgra,grlgwvzb,
 upuibrnugvl g.kzzkqu jggRgpkzbrptgftauopg.kbmgrlgikszvxu,gqmrimgragbmu
abzklxuabgvaarabvlb,gvl gvoakgrlgpkzbslu,gbmuzurlgqmuzuqrbmgbkgavbrapt
ftauop,gbmksxmgunuztbmrlxguoaugamkso gpkzavcugfujggMrwwrvagkpgUoraglkb
klotgpszlramu gmrfauopgqrbmgclkqou xu,gbmvbgmugfrxmb,gvbgluu ,gimuuzpsoot
zubrzugpzkfgvoogkbmuzgikfwvltgbkgulyktgbmugFsaua:glkzgklotgqrbmgbmu
clkqou xugkpgwmrokakwmt,gbkgbuvimgmragaksogbkg.ugiklbulbu gqrbmgrbauop,
vl g.zvnuotgbkgas.arabgqrbmksbgksbqvz giklnulruliua,gqmulgpvbugqkso gmvnu
rbgak;gmugqva,gfkzuknuz,gakgivzupsogvagbkgouvzlgbkgikkc,gbkgamvnu
mrfauop,gbkgfvcugmragkqlgiokbmua,gmragkqlgamkuagvl g zvquza,gbkgwzknr u
pkzgvoogmragluiuaarbruagrlgmrfauop,gvl gbkgquvlgmrfauopgpzkfgbmu
vaarabvliugkpgkbmuzajggVgfvlgfkzugpzuuotgvl gimuuzpsootgulyktag.kzzkqu 
iklnulruliua,gqmulgrbgraglkbgvlgulyktfulbgpkziu gvl giklabzvrlu g.tgluu ;
vl gqmulgmugmva,grlgmragkqlgqroogvl gpkzbslu,gbmugfuvlagbkgornugqrbmksb
bmufjggRgclkqgftauopgnuztgquoo;g.sbg‘bragmvz gpkzgfugbkgrfvxrlugvltgak
wszugor.uzvorbtgkpgvltgklugbkqvz agfu,gvltgakgpzvlcgvl gpzuugmkawrbvorbt,
bmvbgqkso glkbgvwwuvzgbkgfug raizu rbv.ou,gbtzvllrivo,gvl gbvrlbu gqrbm
zuwzkvim,grpgluiuaarbtgmv gzu siu gfugbkgrbjggVagxrnrlxgragvlgvf.rbrksa
vl gvsbmkzrbvbrnugesvorbt,gakgragviiuwbrlxgvgesvorbtgkpgas.fraarkl;
qrbluaagbmugrlasobrlxgvl gesvzzuoakfugzupsavogbmvbg.vyvdubgfv ugkpgbmu
wzuaulbagbmvbgBvfuzovlugaulbgmrf;gvl gbmkaugbmvbgquzugkppuzu gklgbmugwvzb
kpgbmugUfwuzkzgAkotfvlgbkgbmugUfwuzkzgkpgIvorisb,gakgvlxuzu gmrf,gbmvbgmu
lkbgklotgzs uotgzuyuibu gbmuf,gavtrlxgbmvbglurbmuzgmuglkzgvltgkpgmra
wzu uiuaakzagmv gunuzg.uulgqklbgbkgbvcu,gvl gbmvbgrbgqvagbmurzgkppriugbk
xrnu;g.sb,gfkzuknuz,givsau gbmugvf.vaav kzagaulbgqrbmgbmugxrpbagbkg.ugwsb
rlbkgvg slxukljggQmulgBmubra,gavtagVzrabkbou,gpovbbuzagYswrbuz,gqmulgbmu
Oviu vufklrvlagpovbbuzgbmugVbmulrvla,gbmutg kglkbgwsbgbmufgrlgfrl gkpgbmu
xkk gbmutgmvnug klugbmuf,gqmrimgragvoqvtagk rksa,g.sbgkpgbmug.uluprba
bmutgmvnugzuiurnu gpzkfgbmufjggAsimgvagRgauugakgpzuesulbotgufwoktgunuzt
klugrlgbmurzgvppvrza,gvl gbmzsabgbmufauonuagrlbkgakgfsimgk.orxvbrkl,
qkso glunuzg kgrb,g r gbmutg.sbgzuoramgvagRg kgbmugaquubluaagkpgvgwszu
or.uzbt,gvl g r gbmutg.sbgqurxm,gvagqrau:gfulgamkso ,gbmug.sz ulgkp
k.orxvbrkl:g‘bragakfubrfua,gwuzv nulbszu,gpsootgwvr ,g.sbg‘braglunuz
 raakonu jgg‘Bragvgfrauzv.ougaovnuztgbkgvgfvlgqmkgoknuagbkg.ugvbgpsoo
or.uzbtgrlgvoogzuvwuibajggAsimgvagclkqgfu,g.kbmgv.knugvl g.uokqgfugrl
abvbrkl,gvzugv.ougbkgavtgqmubmuzgbmutgmvnugunuzgclkqlgvgfvlgouaa
rfwkzbslrlx,gakorirbrlx,gulbzuvbrlx,gvl gwzuaarlxgswklgkbmuzagbmvlgRj
RpgRgvfgak,gvl gvg uxzuug.utkl gvoogfk uzlguhvfwou,g‘braglkgxzuvbgqkl uz,
akgfvltgwvzbagkpgftgfvlluzagiklbzr.sbrlxgbkgrb:gvgorbbouglvbszvogwzr u,
vlgrfwvbruliugvbg.urlxgzupsau ,gbmugfk uzvbrklgkpgftg uarzuagvl g uarxla,
ftgrlivwvirbtgpkzg.sarluaa,gvl gftgfkabg.uoknu gesvorbrua,gr ouluaagvl 
pzuu kf;g.tgvoogbmuaugbkxubmuzgRgmvnugikliurnu gvgfkzbvogmvbzu gbkg.urlx
k.orxu gbkgvltgkbmuz,gkzg.tgvltgkbmuzgbmvlgftauopjggRgouvnuglkgabklu
slbszlu ,gbkg kgqrbmksbgrb,gzvbmuzgbmvlgufwoktgbmug.kslbtgkpgvlkbmuzgrl
vltgorxmbgkzgrfwkzbvlbgkiivarklgkzgluiuaarbtgqmvbunuzjggFtgpzrul a
abzvlxuotgbzks.ougfugqmulgbmutgvacgfugbkgvacgvgbmrz gwuzakl;gvl gRgbmrlc
rbgikabagfugorbbougouaagbkg raulxvxugmrfgqmkgragrl u.bu gbkgfu,g.tgfvcrlx
saugkpgmrf,gbmvlgbkgulxvxugftauopgbkgmrfgqmkgkquagfuglkbmrlxjggBmuau
ikl rbrklag.urlxgzufknu ,gvl gwzknr u gbmutgzuesrzugkpgfuglkbmrlxgrpgvlt
xzuvbgbzks.ougkzgivzug(pkzgRgmvnug uiovzu gfkzbvogqvzgvxvrlabgvoogivzu),
Rgvfgnuztgzuv tgbkg kgunuztgklugbmug.uabgauznriugRgivljggRgmvnug.uulgnuzt
qroorlxgbkgauucgkiivarklgbkg kgwukwougvgxkk gbszl,gvl gbkgvbbvimgbmufgbk
fu;gvl gfubmrlcagbmuzugraglkgfkzugvxzuuv.ougufwoktfulbgpkzgkszgfuvlaj
.sbgRgmvnugtubgfkzugvnkr u gzuiurnrlxgbmvlgaksxmbgkiivarklagkpgxrnrlx,
vl gfkzuknuz,gviikz rlxgbkgVzrabkbou,grbgragfkzuguvatj,gFtgpkzbslugmva
vookqu gfug.sbgorbbougbkg kgkbmuzagxkk gqrbmvo,gvl gbmugorbbougrbgivl
vppkz ,gragwsbgrlbkgvgwzubbtgiokaugmvl jggMv gRg.uulg.kzlgvgxzuvbgwuzakl,
Rgamkso gmvnug.uulgvf.rbrksagbkgmvnugfv ugftauopg.uoknu ,glkbgbkgfvcu
ftauopgpuvzu gkzgv frzu :gamvoogRgfkzugwovrlotguhwzuaagrb?ggRgamkso gfkzu
mvnugul uvnkszu gbkgwouvaugbmvlgbkgwzkprbgkbmuzajggItzsagnuztgqrauot,gvl 
.tgbmugfksbmgkpgvgxzuvbgivwbvrl,gvl gabroogxzuvbuzgwmrokakwmuz,gwzupuza
mrag.kslbtgvl g.uluprbagfsimg.upkzugmragnvokszgvl gqvzorcugiklesuaba;
vl gbmuguo uzgAirwrk,gqmuzunuzgmugqkso gzvraugmrfauopgrlguabuuf,gaubagv
mrxmuzgnvosugswklgmragvppv.rorbtgvl gmsfvlrbt,gbmvlgklgmragwzkquaagvl 
nribkzrua,gvl gmvagvoqvtagbmragxokzrksagavtrlxgrlgmragfksbm:g“Bmvbgmugmva
xrnulgmragulufruagvagfsimgkiivarklgbkgoknugmrfgvagmragpzrul aj”ggRgqroo
bmulgavt,gbmvbgrpgvgfvlgfsab,gkpgluiuaarbt,gkqugakfubmrlx,grbgksxmbgbkg.u
.tgvgfkzugouxrbrfvbugbrbougbmvlgbmvbgqmuzukpgRgvfgawuvcrlx,gbkgqmrimgbmu
luiuaarbtgkpgbmragfrauzv.ougqvzgikfwuoagfu;gvl glkbgrlgakgxzuvbgvg u.bgva
bmvbgkpgftgbkbvogwzuauznvbrklg.kbmgkpgorpugvl gpkzbslu:grbgknuzqmuofagfuj

Rgmvnugvgbmksavl gbrfuagxklugbkg.u grlgftgkqlgmksaugqrbmgvlgvwwzumularkl
bmvbgRgamkso g.ug.ubzvtu gvl gfsz uzu gbmvbgnuztglrxmb;gikfwksl rlxgqrbm
pkzbslu,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbg.ugqrbmksbgbuzzkzgvl gqrbmgesricg uawvbim;gvl ,
vpbuzgftgWvbuzlkabuz,gRgmvnugizru gksb,

gggggggggg“Rfwrsagmvuigbvfgisobvglknvorvgfrouagmv.u.rb!”

ggggg[“Amvoogrfwrksagako ruzagmvnugbmuaugluq-woksxmu gxzksl a?”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gUioj,grjg71j]

Qmvbgzufu t?gg‘bragbmugwoviugkpgftg.rzbm,gvl gbmvbgkpgfkabgkpgft
vliuabkza;gbmutgmvnugmuzugprhu gbmurzgvppuibrklgvl glvfujggQugrlszu
kszauonuagbkgqmvbunuzgqugvzugviisabkfu gbk;gvl grlgakgfrauzv.ougv
ikl rbrklgvagkszagra,gisabkfgragvgxzuvbg.kslbtgkpglvbszu,gqmrimg.ulsf.a
ksbgaulauagbkgbmugasppuzvliugkpgfvltgunroajggVgirnrogqvzgmvagbmragqrbmgrb
qkzaugbmvlgkbmuzgqvzagmvnu,gbkgfvcugsagabvl gaulbrluoagrlgkszgkqlgmksauaj

gggggggggggggg“Esvfgfrauzsf,gwkzbvgnrbvfgfszkesugbsuzr,
gggggggggggggggNrhesugasvugbsbsfgnrzr.saguaaug kfsa!”

ggggg[“‘Bragfrauzv.ougbkgwzkbuibgklu’agorpug.tg kkzagvl gqvooa,gvl gbkg.u
gggggaivziuotgavpugrlgklu’agkqlgmksauj”--Knr ,gBzrabj,grnjgR,g69j]

‘Bragvgxzrunksaguhbzufrbtgpkzgvgfvlgbkg.ugykabou gunulgrlgmragkqlgmksau
vl g kfuabrigzuwkaujggBmugikslbztgqmuzugRgornugragvoqvtagbmugprzabgrl
vzfagvl gbmugovabgbmvbgovtagbmufg kql,gvl gqmuzugbmuzugraglunuzgvl
v.akosbugwuviu:

ggggggggg“Bsligeskesu,gisfgwvhguab,gbzuwr vlbgpkzfr rlug.uoorjjjj
ggggggggggEskbruagZkfvfgpkzbslvgoviuaarb;
ggggggggggMvigrbuzguabg.uoorajjjjggFuorsa,gPkzbslv,g u raaua
ggggggggggKz.ugas.gUikgau uf,gxuor vesugas.gVzibk,
ggggggggggUzzvlbuaesug kfkaj”

ggggg[“Unulgqmulgbmuzu’agwuviu,gbmuzugragmuzugabroogbmug uvzgkpgqvzgqmul
gggggPkzbslugbzks.ouagwuviu,gbmragragunuzgbmugqvtg.tgqmrimgqvzgwvaauaj”
gggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grrrjg10,g67j]

ggggg[“Qugfrxmbgmvnugornu gmvwwruzgrlgbmugzufkbugUvabgkzgrlgbmugrit
gggggLkzbm,gkzgvfklxgbmugqvl uzrlxgbzr.uaj”--Osivl,grjg255j]

Rgakfubrfuaguhbzvibgbmugfuvlagbkgpkzbrptgftauopgvxvrlabgbmuau
iklar uzvbrklagpzkfgrl rppuzuliugvl grl kouliu,gqmrim,grlgakfugakzb,
.zrlxgsagklgbkgzuakosbrkljggRbgkpbulg.upvooagfugbkgrfvxrlugvl guhwuib
fkzbvog vlxuzagqrbmgvgcrl gkpg uorxmb:gRgabswr otgwoslxugftauopgmuv oklx
rlbkg uvbm,gqrbmksbgiklar uzrlxgkzgbvcrlxgvgnruqgkpgrb,gvagrlbkgvg uuw
vl gk.aiszugv.taagqmrimgaqvookqagfugswgvbgklugouvw,gvl grlnkonuagfugrlgvl
rlabvlbgrlgvgwzkpksl gaouuw,gqrbmksbgvltgaulaugkpgwvrljggVl grlgbmuau
amkzbgvl gnrkoulbg uvbma,gbmugiklauesuliugbmvbgRgpkzuauugv frlrabuzagfkzu
iklakovbrklgbkgfugbmvlgbmuguppuibg kuagpuvzjggBmutgavt,gbmvbgvagorpugra
lkbg.ubbuzgpkzg.urlxgoklx,gakg uvbmgrag.ubbuzgpkzg.urlxglkbgoklxjggRg k
lkbgakgfsimgunv ug.urlxg uv ,gvagRgulbuzgrlbkgiklpr uliugqrbmg trlxjggR
qzvwgvl gamzks gftauopgrlbkgbmugabkzfgbmvbgragbkg.orl gvl givzztgfugvqvt
qrbmgbmugpsztgkpgvgas  ulgvl grlaular.ougvbbvicjggFkzuknuz,grpgrbgamkso 
pvoogksbgbmvb,gvagakfugxvz uluzagavt,gzkauagvl gnrkoubagawzrlxgfkzu
k kzrpuzksagluvzgxvzorigvl gklrkla,g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmugovabgasicgvl 
rf.r.ugvoogbmugroogk kszgkpgbmuguvzbm;gak,grpgbmuaug uwzvnu glvbszua
amkso gvoakgvbbzvibgvoogbmugfvorxlrbtgkpgftgvrzgvl giorfvbu,gvl gzul uz
rbgakgfsimg.ubbuzgvl gwszuzg.tgbmurzgnrirlrbt,gRgamkso glkbgokaugvooj
Bmvbgivllkbg.u:g.sbgbmuzugfvtg.ugakfubmrlxgrlgbmra,gbmvbgxkk luaagragfkzu
.uvsbrpsogvl gvbbzvibrnugqmulgrbgragzvzu;gvl gbmvbgiklbzvzrubtgvl 
 rnuzarbtgpkzbrptgvl giklakor vbugquoo- krlxgqrbmrlgrbauop,gvl grlpovfu
rbg.tgbmugyuvoksatgkpgkwwkarbrklgvl g.tgxokztjggBmrunuagvl gzk..uza,gkp
bmurzgawuirvogpvnksz,gmvnuglkgwvzbrisovzgawrbugvbgfu;glkgfkzugmvnugRgbk
bmuf:gRgamkso gmvnugftgmvl agbkkgpsoojggOrcugiklairuliuagvzugok xu gsl uz
aunuzvogakzbagkpgzk.ua;gorcugizsuobt,g raoktvobt,gzvwrlu;gvl gakgfsimgbmu
qkzau,gvl gfkzugpvoauot,gqmulgbmugfkzugauiszugvl gikliuvou gsl uzgikoksz
kpgbmugovqajggRgouaagmvbugvlgkwulgwzkpuaau grlysztgbmvlgklugbmvbgra
bzuvimuzksa;gvlguluftgrlgvzfa,gbmvlgvlguluftgrlgvgxkqljggKszgpunuzgmva
aurdu gswklgvg.k tgbmvbgraglkbgfsimgbmugqkzaugpkzgrb;gbmuzugqvagprzu
.upkzu,gvl glkqg‘brag.zkculgksbgrlbkgvgpovfu;gbmuglkraugragxzuvbuz,glkb
bmugunrojggRgkz rlvzrotgvlaquzgasimgvagvacgfugbmugzuvaklgkpgftgbzvnuoa,
“BmvbgRgclkqgnuztgquoogqmvbgRgpotgpzkf,g.sbglkbgqmvbgRgauucj”ggRpgbmut
buoogfugbmvbgbmuzugfvtg.ugvagorbbougaksl luaagvfklxabgpkzurxluza,gvl 
bmvbgbmurzgfvlluzagvzuglkg.ubbuzgbmvlgksza:gRgprzabgzuwot,gbmvbgrbgra
mvz gbkg.ug.uorunu ;

gggggggggggggggggggg“Bvfgfsobv:gaiuouzsfgpvirua!”

ggggg[“Bmuzugvzugakgfvltgpkzfagkpgizrfuj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjg506j]

auikl ot,gbmvbgrbgragvoqvtagxvrlgbkgimvlxugvlgroogikl rbrklgpkzgklugbmvb
ragsliuzbvrl;gvl gbmvbgbmugrooagkpgkbmuzagksxmbglkbgbkgvpporibgsagakgfsim
vagkszgkqlj

Rgqrooglkbgmuzugkfrb,gbmvbgRglunuzgfsbrltgakgfsimgvxvrlabgPzvliu,gbmvbgR
vfglkbgwuzpuibotgpzrul agqrbmgWvzra;gbmvbgirbtgmvagunuzgmv gftgmuvzbgpzkf
ftgrlpvlit,gvl grbgmvagpvooulgksb,gvagkpguhiuooulbgbmrlxa,gbmvbgbmugfkzu
.uvsbrpsogirbruagRgmvnugauulgarliu,gbmugfkzugbmug.uvsbtgkpgbmragabroo
qrlagswklgftgvppuibrkljggRgoknugmuzgpkzgmuzauop,gvl gfkzugrlgmuzgkql
lvbrnug.urlx,gbmvlgrlgvoogbmugwkfwgkpgpkzurxlgvl gviesrzu 
uf.uooramfulbajggRgoknugmuzgbul uzot,gunulgbkgmuzgqvzbagvl g.ouframuaj
RgvfgvgPzulimfvlgklotgbmzksxmgbmragxzuvbgirbt,gxzuvbgrlgwukwou,gxzuvbgrl
bmugpuorirbtgkpgmuzgarbsvbrkl;g.sb,gv.knugvoo,gxzuvbgvl grlikfwvzv.ougrl
nvzrubtgvl g rnuzarbtgkpgikffk rbrua:gbmugxokztgkpgPzvliu,gvl gklugkpgbmu
fkabglk.ougkzlvfulbagkpgbmugqkzo jggFvtgXk g zrnugkszg rnrarklagpvzgpzkf
muzjggUlbrzugvl gslrbu ,gRgbmrlcgmuzgaspprirulbotg upul u gpzkfgvoogkbmuz
nrkouliuajggRgxrnugmuzgivsbrklgbmvb,gkpgvoogakzbagkpgwukwou,gbmkaugqroo
.ugbmugqkzabgbmvbgamvoogaubgmuzgrlg raikz ;gRgmvnuglkgpuvzgpkzgmuz,g.sb
kpgmuzauop,gvl ,giuzbvrlot,gRgmvnugvagfsimgpuvzgpkzgmuzgvagpkzgvltgkbmuz
wvzbgkpgbmugcrlx kfjggQmroabgamugamvoogiklbrlsu,gRgamvooglunuzgqvlbgv
zubzuvb,gqmuzugRgfvtgabvl gvbg.vt,gaspprirulbgbkgfvcugfugvful agpkz
wvzbrlxgqrbmgvltgkbmuzgzubzuvbj

Lkbg.uivsaugAkizvbuagmvagavr gak,g.sbg.uivsaugrbgragrlgbzsbmgftgkql
msfksz,gvl gwuzv nulbszuglkbgqrbmksbgakfuguhiuaa,gRgokkcgswklgvoogfulgva
ftgikfwvbzrkba,gvl guf.zviugvgWkovl uzgvagvgPzulimfvl,gwzupuzzrlxgbmu
slrnuzavogvl gikffklgbrugbkgvooglvbrklvogbruagqmvbunuzjggRgvfglkbgfsim
bvculgqrbmgbmugaquubluaagkpgvglvbrnugvrz:gviesvrlbvliugqmkootgluqgvl 
qmkootgftgkqlgvwwuvzgbkgfugpsoogvagxkk gvagbmugkbmuzgikffklgvl 
pkzbsrbksagkluagqrbmgPkszglurxm.ksza:gpzrul amrwagbmvbgvzugwszuotgkpgksz
kqlgviesrzrlxgkz rlvzrotgivzztgrbgv.knugbmkaugbkgqmrimgbmugikffslrivbrkl
kpgiorfvbugkzgkpg.okk gk.orxugsajggLvbszugmvagwoviu gsagrlgbmugqkzo gpzuu
vl gsl.ksl ;gqugrfwzraklgkszauonuagrlgiuzbvrlgabzvrba,gorcugbmugcrlxagkp
Wuzarv,gqmkgk.orxu gbmufauonuagbkg zrlcglkgkbmuzgqvbuzg.sbgbmvbgkpgbmu
zrnuzgImkvawua,gpkkoramotgesrbbu giovrfgbkgbmurzgzrxmbgrlgvoogkbmuz
abzuvfa,gvl ,gakgpvzgvagikliuzlu gbmufauonua,g zru gswgvoogbmugkbmuz
zrnuzagkpgbmugqkzo jggQmvbgAkizvbuag r gbkqvz agmragul ,gbkgokkcgswklgv
aulbuliugkpg.vlramfulbgvagqkzaugbmvlgvgaulbuliugkpg uvbmgvxvrlabgmrf,gR
amvoo,gRgbmrlc,glunuzg.ugurbmuzgakg uizuwr gkzgakgabzribotgmv.rbsvbu gbk
ftgkqlgikslbztgbkg.ugkpgbmvbgkwrlrkljggBmuaugiuouabrvogornuagmvnugrfvxua
ulksxmgbmvbgRguf.zviugfkzug.tguabuufgbmvlgvppuibrkl;gvl gbmutgmvnugakfu
voakgakguounvbu gvl guhbzvkz rlvztgbmvbgRgivllkbguf.zviugbmufgakgfsimgva
.tguabuuf,gpkzvafsimgvagRgivllkbgikliurnugbmufjggBmvbgpvlitgqvagarlxsovz
rlgvgfvlgqmkgbmksxmbgbmugqmkougqkzo gmragirbt;grbgragbzsugbmvbgmu
 ra vrlu gbzvnuo,gvl gmv gmvz otgunuzgaubgmragpkkbgksbgkpgbmugVbbri
buzzrbkzruajggQmvbgavtgtksgbkgmragikfwovrlbgkpgbmugfklutgmragpzrul a
kppuzu gbkgavnugmragorpu,gvl gbmvbgmugzupsau gbkgikfugksbgkpgwzraklg.t
bmugfu rvbrklgkpgkbmuza,grlgkz uzglkbgbkg rak.utgbmugovqagrlgvgbrfugqmul
bmutgquzugkbmuzqraugakgikzzswb?ggBmuauguhvfwouagvzugkpgbmugprzabgcrl gpkz
fu;gkpgbmugauikl ,gbmuzugvzugkbmuzagbmvbgRgikso gprl gksbgrlgbmugavfu
wuzakl:gfvltgkpgbmuaugzvzuguhvfwouagaszwvaagbmugpkziugkpgftgvibrkl,g.sb
akfugkpgbmuf,gfkzuknuz,gaszwvaagbmugpkziugkpgftgys xfulbj

.uar uagbmuaugzuvakla,gbzvnuogragrlgftgkwrlrklgvgnuztgwzkprbv.ou
uhuzirau;gbmugaksogragbmuzugiklbrlsvootgufwoktu grlgk.auznrlxgluqgvl 
slclkqlgbmrlxa,gvl gRg kglkbgclkq,gvagRgmvnugkpbulgavr gvg.ubbuzgaimkko
qmuzurlgbkgfk uogorpugbmvlg.tgrliuaavlbotguhwkarlxgbkgrbgbmug rnuzarbt
kpgakgfvltgkbmuzgornua,gpvlirua,gvl gsavliua,gvl g.tgfvcrlxgrbgzuoramgv
wuzwubsvognvzrubtgkpgpkzfagkpgmsfvlglvbszujggBmug.k tgra,gbmuzurl,
lurbmuzgr ouglkzgknuzqzksxmb;gvl gbmvbgfk uzvbugvxrbvbrklgwsbagrbgrl
.zuvbmjggRgivlgcuuwgklgmkzau.vic,gbkzfulbu gqrbmgbmugabklugvagRgvf,
qrbmksbgvorxmbrlxgkzg.urlxgquvzt,gurxmbgkzgbulgmkszagbkxubmuz:

ggggggggggggggg“Nrzuagsobzvgakzbuzlesugauluibvuj”

ggggg[“.utkl gbmugabzulxbmgvl gokbgkpgvxuj”--VUlur ,gnrjg114j]

Lkgauvaklgraguluftgbkgfug.sbgbmugwvzimrlxgmuvbgkpgvgaikzimrlxgasl;gpkz
bmugsf.zuoovagfv ugsaugkpgrlgRbvot,gunuzgarliugbmugbrfugkpgbmugvlirulb
Zkfvla,gfkzug.sz ulgvgfvl’agvzfgbmvlgbmutgzuorunugmragmuv jggRgqkso gpvrl
clkqgmkqgrbgqvagbmvbgbmugWuzarvla,gakgoklxgvxkgvl grlgbmugrlpvlitgkp
oshszt,gfv ugnulbrovbkzagqmuzugbmutgqvlbu gbmuf,gvl gwovlbu gamv ua,gva
Hulkwmklgzuwkzbagbmutg r jggRgoknugzvrl,gvl gbkg v..ougrlgbmug rzb,gva
quoogvag sicag kjggBmugimvlxugkpgvrzgvl giorfvbuglunuzgbksimuagfu;gunuzt
actgragvorcu;gRgvfgklotgbzks.ou gqrbmgrlqvz gvobuzvbrklagqmrimgRg.zuu 
qrbmrlgftauop,gvl gbmkaugvzuglkbgakgpzuesulbgrlgbzvnuojggRgvfgmvz gbkg.u
xkbgksb,g.sbg.urlxgkliugswklgbmugzkv ,gRgmko gksbgvagquoogvagbmug.uabj
Rgbvcugvagfsimgwvrlagrlgorbbougvagrlgxzuvbgvbbufwba,gvl gvfgvagakorirbksa
bkguesrwgftauopgpkzgvgamkzbgykszlut,grpg.sbgbkgnrarbgvglurxm.ksz,gvagpkz
bmugoklxuabgnktvxujggRgmvnugouvzlu gbkgbzvnuogvpbuzgbmugAwvlramgpvamrkl,
vl gbkgfvcug.sbgklugabvxugkpgvgxzuvbgfvltgfroua;gvl grlguhiuaarnugmuvba
Rgvoqvtagbzvnuog.tglrxmb,gpzkfgaslgaubgbkgaslzraujggBmugkbmuzgfubmk gkp
.vrbrlxg.tgbmugqvt,grlgmvabugvl gmszztgbkgxk..ougswgvg rlluz,gra,
uawuirvootgrlgamkzbg vta,gnuztgrliklnulrulbjggFtgmkzauagwuzpkzfgbmu
.ubbuz;glunuzgvltgmkzaugbrzu gsl uzgfugbmvbgqvagv.ougbkgmko gksbgbmu
przabg vt’agykszlutjggRgqvbuzgbmufgvbgunuztg.zkkcgRgfuub,gvl gmvnugklotgv
ivzugbmutgmvnugakgfsimgqvtgbkgxkg.upkzugRgikfugbkgftgrll,gvagqroog rxuab
bmugqvbuzgrlgbmurzg.uooruajggFtgslqroorlxluaagbkgzraugrlgvgfkzlrlxgxrnua
ftgauznvlbagouraszugbkg rlugvbgbmurzguvaug.upkzugbmutgaubgksb;gpkzgftgkql
wvzb,gRglunuzguvbgbkkgovbu;gftgvwwubrbugikfuagbkgfugrlguvbrlx,gvl glkb
uoau;gRgvfglunuzgmslxztg.sbgvbgbv.ouj

Akfugkpgftgpzrul ag.ovfugfugpkzgiklbrlsrlxgbmragbzvnuoorlxgmsfksz,g.urlx
fvzzru gvl gko jgg.sbgbmutgvzugksbgrl’b;g‘bragbmug.uabgbrfugbkgouvnugv
fvl’agmksau,gqmulgmugmvagwsbgrbgrlbkgvgqvtgkpgiklbrlsrlxgqrbmksbgmrf,gvl 
aubbou gasimgkz uzgvagikzzuawkl agqrbmgrbagpkzfuzgxknuzlfulbjgg‘Bragfsim
xzuvbuzgrfwzs uliugbkgv.vl klgrbgbkgvgouaagpvrbmpsogmksaucuuwuz,gvl gqmk
qroog.ugouaagakorirbksagbkgokkcgvpbuzgtkszgvppvrzaj

Bmugfkabgsaupsogvl gmklkszv.ougclkqou xugvl gufwoktfulbgpkzgbmugfkbmuzgkp
vgpvfrotgragbmugairuliugkpgxkk gmksauqrpuztjggRgauugakfugbmvbgvzu
iknubksagrl uu ,g.sbgnuztgpuqgbmvbgvzugxkk gfvlvxuzajgg‘Bragbmugaswzufu
esvorbtgkpgvgqkfvl,gqmrimgvgfvlgksxmbgbkgauucg.upkzugvltgkbmuz,gvagbmu
klotg kqztgbmvbgfsabgzsrlgkzgwzuauznugkszgmksauajggOubgfulgavtgqmvbgbmut
qroo,gviikz rlxgbkgbmuguhwuzruliugRgmvnugouvzlu ,gRgzuesrzugrlgfvzzru 
qkfulgbmuguiklkfrivognrzbsugv.knugvoogkbmuzgnrzbsua;gRgwsbgftgqrpugbk’b,
vagvgikliuzlgkpgmuzgkql,gouvnrlxgmuz,g.tgftgv.auliu,gbmugqmkougxknuzlfulb
kpgftgvppvrzajggRgauu,gvl gvfgnuhu gbkgauu,grlgaunuzvogpvfroruagRgclkq,
Fklaruszgv.ksbglkklgikfugmkfugvoogyv u gvl gzsppou gv.ksbgmragvppvrza,
qmulgFv vfugragabroog zuaarlxgmuzgmvrzgvl gbzricrlxgswgmuzauop,gpkzakkbm,
rlgmuzgiokaub:gbmragragpkzgesuulagbkg k,gvl gbmvb’agvgesuabrkl,gbkk:g‘bra
zr risoksagvl gslysabgbmvbgbmugovdrluaagkpgkszgqrnuagamkso g.ugfvrlbvrlu 
qrbmgkszgaquvbgvl gov.kszjggLkgfvl,gakgpvzgvagrlgfugoru,gamvoogmvnugv
iouvzuz,gvgfkzugesrubgvl gpzuugpzsrbrklgkpgmraguabvbugbmvlgRjggRpgbmu
msa.vl g.zrlxgfvbbuz,glvbszugmuzauopgqroogbmvbgbmugqrpugprl gbmugpkzfj

Vagbkgbmug sbruagkpgiklysxvogpzrul amrw,gbmvbgakfugbmrlcgbkg.ugrfwvrzu 
.tgbmuaugv.auliua,gRgvfgesrbugkpgvlkbmuzgkwrlrkljggRbgra,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gvlgrlbuoorxuliugbmvbguvarotgikkoag.tgvgbkkgpzuesulbgvl 
vaar sksagikfwvlrklamrwjggUnuztgabzvlxugqkfvlgvwwuvzagimvzfrlx,gvl gqu
voogprl g.tguhwuzruliugbmvbg.urlxgiklbrlsvootgbkxubmuzgraglkbgakgwouvarlx
vagbkgwvzbgpkzgvgbrfugvl gfuubgvxvrljggBmuaugrlbuzzswbrklagproogfugqrbm
pzuamgvppuibrklgbkqvz agftgpvfrot,gvl gzul uzgftgmksaugfkzugwouvavlbgbk
fujggImvlxugqvzfagftgvwwubrbugbkgbmugklugvl gbmulgbkgbmugkbmuzjggRgclkq
bmvbgbmugvzfagkpgpzrul amrwgvzugoklxgulksxmgbkgzuvimgpzkfgbmugklugul gkp
bmugqkzo gbkgbmugkbmuz,gvl guawuirvootgbmra,gqmuzugbmuzugragvgiklbrlsvo
ikffslrivbrklgkpgkppriuagbmvbgzksaugbmugk.orxvbrklgvl gzufuf.zvliujggBmu
Abkriagavtgbmvbgbmuzugragakgxzuvbgiklluibrklgvl gzuovbrklgvfklxabgbmu
avxua,gbmvbgmugqmkg rluagrlgPzvliuglkszramuagmragikfwvlrklgrlgUxtwb;gvl 
bmvbgqmkunuzg kuag.sbgmko gksbgmragprlxuz,grlgqmvbgwvzbgkpgbmugqkzo 
akunuz,gvoogbmugavxuagswklgbmugmv.rbv.ouguvzbmgpuuogbmufauonuagvaarabu 
.tgrbjggPzsrbrklgvl gwkaauaarklgwzrlirwvootgvwwuzbvrlgbkgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl;
rbgfkzugpuznulbotgvl giklabvlbotguf.zviuagqmvbgrbgragrlgesuabgkp,gbmvl
qmvbgqugmko grlgkszgvzfajggIvabgswgtkszg vrotgvfsaufulba;gtksgqroogprl 
bmvbgtksgvzugfkabgv.aulbgpzkfgtkszgpzrul gqmulgmugragwzuaulbgqrbmgtks;
mragwzuauliugzuovhuagtkszgvbbulbrkl,gvl gxrnuagtksgor.uzbtgbkgv.aulb
tkszauopgvbgunuztgbszlgvl gswklgunuztgkiivarkljggQmulgRgvfgvqvtgvbgZkfu,
Rgcuuwgvl gxknuzlgftgmksau,gvl gbmugiklnulruliuagRgbmuzugoupb;gauugft
qvooagzrau,gftgbzuuagamkkb,gvl gftgzunulsugrlizuvaugkzg uizuvau,gnuzt
luvzgvagquoogvagqmulgRgvfgbmuzu:

gggggggggg“Vlbugkisokaguzzvbg kfsa,guzzvbgpkzfvgokikzsfj”

ggggg[“Ftgmksaugvl gbmugpkzfagkpgwoviuagpokvbg.upkzugftgutua”
gggggg--Knr ,gBzrab,grrrjg4,g57j]

Rpgqugulyktglkbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgqugbksim,gqugfvtgavtgpvzuquoogbkgbmugfklut
rlgkszgimuaba,gvl gbkgkszgaklagqmulgbmutgvzugxklugvgmslbrlxjggQugqroo
mvnugbmufgluvzuzgbkgsa:gragbmugxvz ul,gkzgmvopgvg vt’agykszlutgpzkfgmkfu,
pvz?ggQmvbgragbulgouvxsua:gpvzgkzgluvz?ggRpgluvz,gqmvbgraguounul,gbquonu,
kzgbmrzbuul,gvl gakg.tg uxzuuajggRlguvzluab,grpgbmuzug.ugvgqkfvlgqmkgivl
buoogmuzgmsa.vl gqmvbgabuwgul agbmugluvzgvl gqmvbgabuwg.uxrlagbmugzufkbu,
Rgqkso gv nraugmuzgbkgabkwg.ubquul;

gggggggggggggg“Uhios vbgyszxrvgprlragjggjggjggj
gggggggggggggggSbkzgwuzfraak;givs vuesugwrokagsbguesrlvu
gggggggggggggggWvsovbrfgnuook,gubg ufkgslsf,g ufkgubrvfgslsf
ggggggggggggggg sfgiv vbguosasagzvbrklugzsulbragviuznr:”

ggggg[“Oubgbmugul gamsbgksbgvoog rawsbuagjggjggjggjggRgsaugqmvbgra
gggggwuzfrbbu ;gRgwosicgksbgbmugmvrzagkpgbmugmkzau’agbvrogklug.tgklu;
gggggqmrougRgbmsagksbqrbgftgkwwklulbj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grr,gR,g38,g45]

vl goubgbmufg.ko otgivoogwmrokakwmtgbkgbmurzgvaarabvliu;grlgqmkaugbuubm
rbgfvtg.ugivabgbmvb,gauurlxgrbglurbmuzg raiuzlagbmugkluglkzgbmugkbmuzgul 
kpgbmugykrlb,g.ubqrhbgbmugbkkgfsimgvl gbmugorbbou,gbmugoklxgvl gbmu
amkzb,gbmugorxmbgvl gbmugmuvnt,gbmugluvzgvl gbmugzufkbu;gbmvbgauurlxgrb
 raiknuzaglurbmuzgbmug.uxrllrlxglkzgbmugul ,grbgfsabgluu agys xugnuzt
sliuzbvrlotgkpgbmugfr  ou:

gggggggggg“Zuzsfglvbszvglsoovfglk.rag u rbgikxlrbrklufgprlrsfj”

ggggg[“Lvbszugmvagxzuulgbkgsaglkgclkqou xugkpgbmugul gkpgbmrlxaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjg29j]

Vzugbmutglkbgabroogqrnuagvl gpzrul agbkgbmug uv gqmkgvzuglkbgvbgbmugul 
kpgbmrag.sbgrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo ?ggQuguf.zviuglkbgklotgbmugv.aulb,g.sb
bmkaugqmkgmvnug.uul,gvl gbmkaugqmkgvzuglkbgtubjggQug kglkbgwzkfraugrl
fvzzrvxugbkg.ugiklbrlsvootgbqrabu gvl gorlcu gbkxubmuz,gorcugakfugorbbou
vlrfvoagbmvbgqugauu,gkz,gorcugbmug.uqrbimu gpkocagkpgCvzulbt,--[Cvzvlbrv,
vgbkqlgrlgbmugraougkpgZsxuljggAuugAvhk-Xzvffvbrisa,gMrabjggkpg ulfvzc,
.kkcghrnj]--bru gbkxubmuzgorcug kxa;gvl gvgqrpugksxmbglkbgbkg.ugak
xzuu rotgulvfkszu gkpgmuzgmsa.vl ’agpkzuwvzba,gbmvbgamugivllkbgul szugbk
auugmrfgbszlgmrag.vic,grpgkiivarklg.ujgg.sbgfvtglkbgbmragavtrlxgkpgbmvb
uhiuooulbgwvrlbuzgkpgqkfvl’agmsfkszag.ugmuzugrlbzk siu ,gbkgamkqgbmu
zuvaklgkpgbmurzgikfwovrlba?

ggggggggg“Shkz,gargiuaaua,gvsbgbkgvfvzugikxrbvb,
ggggggggggVsbgbubugvfvzr,gvsbgwkbvzu,gvsbgvlrfkgk.auesr;
ggggggggggUbgbr.rg.uluguaaugakor,gisfgar.rgarbgfvou;”

ggggg[“Tkszgqrpu,grpgtksgokrbuz,gbmrlcagbmvbgtksgoknugkzgvzug.uoknu ;gkz
gggggbmvbgtksgvzug zrlcrlxgkzgpkookqrlxgtkszgrliorlvbrkl;gvl gbmvbgrbgra
gggggquoogpkzgtksgqmulgrbgragroogpkzgmuzg(voogbmugwouvaszugragtkszagvl 
gggggmuzagvoogbmugivzu)j”
gggggg--Buzuliu,gV uowmj,gvibgrj,gaijgR,gnjgg7j]

kzgfvtgrbglkbg.u,gbmvbgkpgrbauopgkwwkarbrklgvl giklbzv ribrklgulbuzbvrl
vl glkszramgbmuf,gvl gbmvbgbmutgaspprirulbotgviikffk vbugbmufauonua,
wzknr u gbmutgrlikffk vbugtks?

Rlgbzsugpzrul amrw,gqmuzurlgRgvfgwuzpuib,gRgfkzugxrnugftauopgbkgft
pzrul ,gbmvlgRgul uvnkszgbkgvbbzvibgmrfgbkgfujggRgvfglkbgklotg.ubbuz
wouvau grlg krlxgmrfgauznriugbmvlgrpgmugiklpuzzu gvg.uluprbgswklgfu,
.sb,gfkzuknuz,gmv gzvbmuzgmugamkso g kgmrfauopgxkk gbmvlgfu,gvl gmugfkab
k.orxuagfugqmulgmug kuagak;gvl grpgv.auliug.ugurbmuzgfkzugwouvavlbgkz
iklnulrulbgpkzgmrf,g‘bragvoakgfkzugviiuwbv.ougbkgfugbmvlgmragwzuauliu;
lurbmuzgragrbgwzkwuzotgv.auliu,gqmulgqugivlgqzrbugbkgklugvlkbmuz:gRgmvnu
akfubrfuagfv ugxkk gsaugkpgkszgauwvzvbrklgpzkfgklugvlkbmuz:gqug.ubbuz
proou gvl gpszbmuzguhbul u gbmugwkaauaarklgkpgorpugrlg.urlxgwvzbu j
Mu--[Ovg.kubruj]--ornu ,gulyktu ,gvl gavqgpkzgfu,gvl gRgpkzgmrf,gva
psootgvagrpgmugmv gmrfauopg.uulgbmuzu;gklugwvzbgkpgsagzufvrlu gr ou,gvl 
qugquzugbkkgfsimg.oul u grlgklugvlkbmuzgqmulgqugquzugbkxubmuz;gbmu
 rabvliugkpgwoviugzul uzu gbmugiklyslibrklgkpgkszgqrooagfkzugzrimjggBmra
rlavbrv.oug uarzugkpgwuzaklvogwzuauliugvgorbbougrfworuagquvcluaagrlgbmu
pzsrbrklgkpgaksoaj

Vagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagvxu,gqmrimgragvoouxu gvxvrlabgfu,g‘bragesrbu
iklbzvzt;g‘bragpkzgtksbmgbkgas.yuibgrbauopgbkgikffklgkwrlrkla,gvl gbk
isz.grbauopgbkgwouvaugkbmuza;grbgmvagqmuzuqrbmvogbkgwouvaug.kbmgbmu
wukwougvl grbauop;gqugmvnug.sbgbkkgfsimgv kgbkgwouvaugkszauonuagvokluj
Vaglvbszvogiklnulruliuagpvro,goubgsagaswwotgbmufgqrbmgbmkaugbmvbgvzu
vzbrprirvojgg‘Bragrlysabriugbkguhisaugtksbmgpkzgwszasrlxgrbagwouvaszua,
vl gbkgpkz.r gko gfulgbkgauucgbmufjggQmulgtkslx,gRgikliuvou gftgqvlbkl
wvaarklagqrbmgwzs uliu;glkqgRgvfgko ,gRgimvaugvqvtgfuovlimkotg.tg u.vsimj
Vl gbmsag kgbmugwovbklrigovqagpkz.r gfulgbkgbzvnuogbroogpkzbtgkzgprpbt
tuvzagko ,gakgbmvbgbzvnuogfrxmbg.ugfkzugsaupsogvl grlabzsibrnugrlgak
fvbszugvlgvxujggRgamkso gakkluzgas.aizr.ugbkgbmugauikl gvzbriougkpgbmu
avfugOvqa,gqmrimgpkz.r agrbgvpbuzgbmzuuaikzuj

“.sb,gvbgasimgvlgvxu,gtksgqrooglunuzgzubszlgpzkfgakgoklxgvgykszlutj”
gQmvbgivzugRgpkzgbmvb?ggRglurbmuzgsl uzbvcugrbgbkgzubszl,glkzgbkgprlramgrb
ftg.sarluaagragklotgbkgcuuwgftauopgrlgfkbrkl,gqmroabgfkbrklgwouvauagfu;
Rgklotgqvocgpkzgbmugqvoc’agavcujggBmutgqmkgzslgvpbuzgvg.uluprbgkzgvgmvzu,
zslglkb;gbmutgklotgzslgqmkgzslgvbg.vau,gvl gbkguhuziraugbmurzgzsllrlxj
Ftg uarxlgrag rnrar.ougbmzksxmksb:grbgraglkbgxzksl u gswklgvltgxzuvb
mkwua:gunuztg vtgiklios uagftguhwuibvbrkl:gvl gbmugykszlutgkpgftgorpugra
ivzzru gklgvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluzjggVl gtubgRgmvnugauulgwoviuagulksxmgv
xzuvbgqvtgkpp,gqmuzugRgikso gmvnugqramu gbkgmvnugabvtu jggVl gqmtglkb,
rpgImztarwwsa,gIouvlbmua,g rkxulua,gDulk,gVlbrwvbuz,gakgfvltgavxuagkpgbmu
akszuabgauib,gzuv rotgv.vl klu gbmurzgikslbzt,gqrbmksbgkiivarklgkp
ikfwovrlb,gvl gklotgpkzgbmugulyktfulbgkpgvlkbmuzgvrzjggRlguvzluab,gbmvb
qmrimgfkabg rawouvauagfugrlgvoogftgbzvnuoagra,gbmvbgRgivllkbgzuakonugbk
aubbougftgv.k ugqmuzugRgamkso g.uabgorcu,g.sbgbmvbgRgfsabgvoqvtagwzkwkau
bkgftauopgbkgzubszl,gbkgviikffk vbugftauopgbkgbmugikffklgmsfkszj

RpgRgpuvzu gbkg rugrlgvltgkbmuzgwoviugbmvlgbmvbgkpgftg.rzbm;grpgRgbmksxmb
Rgamkso g rugfkzugsluvarotgzufkbugpzkfgftgkqlgpvfrot,gRgamkso gmvz otgxk
ksbgkpgPzvliu;gRgamkso glkb,gqrbmksbgpuvz,gabuwgksbgkpgftgwvzram;gRgpuuo
 uvbmgvoqvtagwrlimrlxgfug.tgbmugbmzkvbgkzg.tgbmug.vicjgg.sbgRgvf
kbmuzqraugiklabrbsbu ;g‘bragrlgvoogwoviuagvorcugbkgfujggTub,gfrxmbgRgmvnu
ftgimkriu,gRgbmrlcgRgamkso gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkg rugklgmkzau.vicgbmvlgrl
.u ;gksbgkpgftgkqlgmksau,gvl gpvzgpzkfgftgkqlgwukwoujggBmuzugragfkzu
muvzb.zuvcrlxgbmvlgiklakovbrklgrlgbvcrlxgouvnugkpgklu’agpzrul a;gRgvf
qroorlxgbkgkfrbgbmvbgirnrorbt,gpkzgbmvb,gkpgvoogbmugkppriuagkp
pzrul amrw,gragbmugklotgklugbmvbgragslwouvavlb;gvl gRgikso ,gqrbmgvoogft
muvzb,g rawulaugqrbmgbmvbgxzuvbgvl gubuzlvogpvzuquoojggRpgbmuzug.ugvlt
iklnulruliugrlgakgfvltgabvl uza-.t,grbg.zrlxagvlgmsl zu grliklnulruliua
voklxgqrbmgrbjggRgmvnugauulgfvltg trlxgfrauzv.otgaszzksl u gqrbmgvoogbmra
bzvrl:g‘bragvgizkq gbmvbgimkcuagbmufjgg‘Bragvxvrlabg sbt,gvl gragv
buabrfkltgkpgorbbougcrl luaagvl gorbbougivzu,gbkgwuzfrbgtksgbkg rugrl
zuwkau;gklugbkzfulbagtkszgutua,gvlkbmuzgtkszguvza,gvlkbmuzgtkszgbklxsu;
tksgmvnuglurbmuzgaulauglkzgfuf.uzgbmvbgraglkbgqkzzru g.tgbmufjggTksz
muvzbgragqksl u gqrbmgikfwvaarklgbkgmuvzgbmugfkszlrlxgkpgpzrul a,gvl ,
wuzmvwagqrbmgvlxuz,gbkgmuvzgbmugikslbuzpurbgikl korlxagkpgwzubul uzaj
Qmkgunuzgmvag.uulg uorivbugvl gaularbrnu,gqmulgquoo,gragfsimgfkzugakgqmul
roojggRlgasimgvgluiuaarbt,gvgxulbougmvl gragzuesrzu ,gviikffk vbu gbkgmra
aulbrfulb,gbkgaizvbimgmrfgysabgrlgbmugwoviugqmuzugmugrbimua,gkbmuzqrau
aizvbimgmrfglkbgvbgvoojggRpgqugabvl grlgluu gkpgvgqraugqkfvl--[fr qrpu,
Pzjg‘avxugpuffu’j]--bkg.zrlxgsagrlbkgbmugqkzo ,gqugmvnugfsimgfkzugluu 
kpgvgabroogqrauzgfvlgbkgmuowgsagksbgkpgrbjggAsimgvgklu,gvl gvgpzrul gbk
.kkb,gvgfvlgksxmbgbkgwszimvaugvbgvltgikabgpkzgasimgvlgkiivarkljggRgvfglkb
tubgvzzrnu gbkgbmvbgwrbimgkpg ra vrlpsognrxkszgbmvbgragpkzbrpru grl
rbauop,gbmvbglkbmrlxgivlgvaarabgkzg rabsz.;gRgvfgkpgvgokquzgpkzf;gR
ul uvnkszgbkgmr ugftauop,gvl gbkguaivwugpzkfgbmragwvaavxu,glkbg.tgpuvz,
.sbg.tgvzbjggRg kglkbgrlbul grlgbmragvibgkpg trlxgbkgfvcugwzkkpgvl gamkq
kpgftgiklabvlitjgPkzgqmkfgamkso gRg kgrb?gvoogbmugzrxmbgvl grlbuzuabgR
mvnugrlgzuwsbvbrklgqroogbmulgiuvaujggRgiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgvg uvbm
rlnkonu gqrbmrlgrbauop,gesrub,gakorbvzt,gvl gvoogftgkql,gasrbv.ougbkgft
zubrzu gvl gwzrnvbugorpu;gesrbugiklbzvztgbkgbmugZkfvlgaswuzabrbrkl,gqmuzu
vgfvlgqvagokkcu gswklgvagslmvwwtgqmkg ru gqrbmksbgawuvcrlx,gvl gqmkgmv 
lkbgmragluvzuabgzuovbrklagbkgiokaugmragutuajggRgmvnugulksxmgbkg kgbk
ikfpkzbgftauop,gqrbmksbgmvnrlxgbkgiklakougkbmuza;gbmksxmbagulksxmgrlgft
muv ,glkbgbkgluu gbmvbgirzisfabvliuagamkso gwkaauaagfugqrbmgluq;gvl 
fvbbuzgulksxmgbkgkiiswtgfugqrbmksbg.kzzkqrlxjggBmragvppvrzgragksbgkpgbmu
wvzbgkpgakirubt;g‘bragbmugvibgkpgklugarlxougwuzakljggOubgsagornugvl g.u
fuzztgvfklxabgkszgpzrul a;goubgsagxkgzuwrlugvl g rugvfklxabgabzvlxuza;gv
fvlgfvtgprl gbmkau,gpkzgmragfklut,gqmkgqroogamrpbgmragwrookqgvl gzs.gmra
puub,gvl gqroogbzks.ougmrfglkgfkzugbmvlgmugqkso gmvnugbmuf;gqmkgqroo
wzuaulbgbkgmrfgvlgrl rppuzulbgikslbulvliu,gvl gasppuzgmrfgbkgxknuzl
mrfauop,gvl gbkgikfwovrlgviikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgfubmk j

Rgquvlgftauopg vrotg.tgftgzuvaklgpzkfgbmragimro ramgvl grlmsfvlgmsfksz,
kpg uarzrlxg.tgkszgasppuzrlxagbkgfknugbmugikfwvaarklgvl gfkszlrlxgkpgksz
pzrul a:gqugabzubimgkszgkqlgrlikffk rbruag.utkl gbmurzgysabguhbulbgqmul
quguhbzvibgbuvzagpzkfgkbmuza;gvl gbmugiklabvlitgqmrimgqugikfful grlgunuzt
klugrlgaswwkzbrlxgmragv nuzaugpkzbslu,gqugviisaugvl gzuwzkvimgrlgksz
pzrul agqmulgbmugunrogragkszgkql;gqugvzuglkbgavbrapru gbmvbgbmutgamkso 
.ugaular.ougkpgkszgikl rbrklgklot,gslouaagbmutg.u,gfkzuknuz,gvpporibu j
Vgfvlgamkso g rppsaugykt,g.sb,gvagfsimgvagmugivl,gafkbmuzgxzrupjggMugqmk
fvcuagmrfauopgovfulbu gqrbmksbgzuvaklgragvgfvlglkbgbkg.ugovfulbu gqmul
bmuzugamvoog.ugzuvogivsau:gbkg.ugvoqvtagikfwovrlrlxgragbmugqvtglunuzgbk
.ugovfulbu ;g.tgfvcrlxgmrfauopgvoqvtagrlgakgwrbrpsogvgbvcrlx,gmugraglunuz
ikffrauzvbu g.tgvltjggMugqmkgfvcuagmrfauopgksbg uv gqmulgmugragvornu,gra
as.yuibgbkg.ugbmksxmbgornrlxgqmulgmugrag trlxjggRgmvnugauulgakfugqmkgmvnu
bvculgrbgroogqmulgbmutgmvnug.uulgbko gbmvbgbmutgokkcu gquoo,gvl gbmvb
bmurzgwsoaugqvagxkk ;gzuabzvrlgbmurzgafroua,g.uivsaugbmutg.ubzvtu gv
zuiknuzt,gvl g.ugvlxzt,gvbgbmurzgmuvobmg.uivsaugrbgqvaglkbgbkg.u
ovfulbu :gvl ,gqmrimgragvgxzuvbg uvogfkzu,gbmuaugquzuglkbgqkfulj
Rg uaizr.ugftgrlprzfrbrua,gasimgvagbmutgzuvootgvzu,gvbgfkab,gvl gvnkr 
vooguhwzuaarklagkpgunrogwzkxlkabrigvl gikfwkau guhiovfvbrklajggRpglkb
frzbm,gvbgouvabgvgbufwuzvbugikslbulvliugrlgbmugabvl uza-.t,gragwzkwuzgrl
bmugwzuauliugkpgvgqraugaricgfvl:gmug kuaglkbgesvzzuogqrbmgmuvobm,gpkz,
auurlxgmrfauopgrlgvgiklbzvztgikl rbrkl,gmugragwouvau gbkgiklbufwovbugrb
aksl gvl gulbrzugrlgkbmuza,gvl gvbgouvabgbkgulyktgrbgpkzgikfwvlt:gmug kua
lkb,gpkzgpuuorlxgmrfauopgfuobgvqvt,gv.vl klgvoogornrlxgbmksxmba,glkz
vnkr gkz rlvztg raikszaujggRgqkso gabs tgaricluaagqmroabgRgvfgquoo;gqmul
rbgmvagaurdu gfu,grbgqroogfvcugrbagrfwzuaarklgzuvogulksxm,gqrbmksbgbmu
muowgkpgftgrfvxrlvbrkljggQugwzuwvzugkszauonuag.upkzumvl gpkzgbmugykszluta
qugsl uzbvcu,gvl gzuakonugswklgbmuf;gqugouvnugbmugvwwkrlbfulbgkpgbmugmksz
qmulgbkgbvcugmkzaugbkgbmugikfwvlt,gvl grlgbmurzgpvnkszg upuzgrbj

Rgprl gbmragsluhwuibu gv nvlbvxugrlgbmugws.orivbrklgkpgftgfvlluza,gbmvb
rbgrlgakfugakzbgauznuagfugpkzgvgzsoujggRgmvnu,gvbgbrfua,gakfu
iklar uzvbrklgkpglkbg.ubzvtrlxgbmugmrabkztgkpgftgorpu:gbmragws.ori
 uiovzvbrklgk.orxuagfugbkgcuuwgftgqvt,gvl glkbgbkgxrnugbmugorugbkgbmu
rfvxugRgmvnug zvqlgkpgftgesvorbrua,gikffklotgouaag upkzfu gvl 
iklbzv ribkztgbmvlgiklarabagqrbmgbmugfvorxlrbtgvl grlprzfrbtgkpgbmu
ys xfulbagkpgbmragvxujggBmugslrpkzfrbtgvl garfworirbtgkpgftgfvlluza
wzk siugvgpviugkpguvatgrlbuzwzubvbrkl;g.sbg.uivsaugbmugpvamrklgragv
orbbougluqgvl glkbgrlgsau,grbgxrnuagbkkgxzuvbgkwwkzbslrbtgbkgaovl uzj
Tubgakgrbgra,gbmvbgqmkunuzgqkso gpvrzotgvaavrogfu,gRgbmrlcgRgak
aspprirulbotgvaarabgmragwszwkaugrlgftgclkqlgvl gvnkqu grfwuzpuibrkla,
bmvbgmugfvtgbmvbgqvtgavbraptgmragroo-lvbszugqrbmksbgprxmbrlxgqrbmgbmu
qrl jggRpgRgftauop,gbkgvlbrirwvbugviisavbrklgvl g raiknuzt,giklpuaa
ulksxmgbkgpzsabzvbugmragfvoriu,gvagmugikliurnua,g‘brag.sbgzuvaklgbmvbgmu
fvcugsaugkpgmragzrxmbgkpgvfworprivbrkl,gvl gbkgqrzu- zvqgftgnriuagvagpvz
vagmugivl;gvbbvicgmvagrbagzrxmbag.utkl gysabriu;gvl goubgmrfgfvcugbmu
zkkbagkpgbmkauguzzkzagRgmvnugovr gkwulgbkgmrfgamkkbgswgrlbkgbzuua:goub
mrfgfvcugmragsau,glkbgklotgkpgbmkaugRgvfgzuvootgvppuibu gqrbm,g.sbgvoak
kpgbmkaugbmvbgklotgbmzuvbulgfu;grlyszrksagnriua,g.kbmgrlgesvorbtgvl 
lsf.uz;goubgmrfgis xuogfugbmvbgqvtjggRgamkso gqroorlxotgpkookqgbmu
uhvfwougkpgbmugwmrokakwmuzg.rkl:gVlbrxklsag.urlxgv.ksbgbkgzuwzkvimgmrf
qrbmgbmugfuvlluaagkpgmrag.rzbm,gmugwzuaulbotgisbgmrfgamkzbgqrbmgbmra
 uiovzvbrkl:g“Rgvf,”gavr gmu,g“bmugaklgkpgvgaovnu,gvg.sbimuz,gvl 
.zvl u ,gvl gkpgvgabzsfwubgftgpvbmuzgfvzzru grlgbmugokquabgkpgmra
pkzbslu;g.kbmgkpgbmufgquzugqmrwwu gpkzgkppuliuagbmutgmv gikffrbbu jggVl
kzvbkzg.ksxmbgfu,gqmulgvgimro ,gvl gprl rlxgfugvgwzubbtgvl gmkwupsog.kt,
.zu gfugsw,gvl gqmulgmug ru goupbgfugvoogmraguabvbu,gqmrimgRgmvnu
bzvlawkzbu grlbkgbmragirbtgkpgVbmula,gvl gmuzugaubbou gftauopgbkgbmu
abs tgkpgwmrokakwmtjggOubgbmugmrabkzrvlaglunuzgbzks.ougbmufauonuagqrbm
rlesrzrlxgv.ksbgfu:gRgqroogbuoogbmufgv.ksbgrbj”ggVgpzuugvl gxuluzksa
iklpuaarklguluznvbuagzuwzkvimgvl g ravzfagaovl uzjggAkgrbgragbmvb,gklu
bmrlxgqrbmgvlkbmuz,gRgpvlitgfulgvagkpbulgikfful gvagsl uznvosugfug.utkl 
zuvakl;gva,gfubmrlcagvoak,gpzkfgftgimro mkk ,grlgzvlcgvl g uxzuugkp
mklksz,gbmutgmvnugxrnulgfugvgwoviugzvbmuzgv.knugbmvlg.uokqgftgzrxmbj
Rgamkso gprl gftauopgfkzugvbguvaugrlgvgikslbztgqmuzugbmuaug uxzuuagquzu
urbmuzgzuxsovbu gkzglkbgzuxvz u jggVfklxabgful,gqmulgvlgvobuzivbrklgv.ksb
bmugwzuiu uliugurbmuzgkpgqvocrlxgkzgarbbrlxguhiuu agbmzuugzuworua,g‘bra
zuwsbu gslirnrojggRglunuzgabricgvbgxrnrlxgkzgbvcrlxgwoviugksbgkpgzsou,gbk
vnkr gbmugbzks.ougkpgasimgiuzufklt;gvl glunuzgvltgfvlgmv gvgfrl gbkgxk
.upkzugfu,g.sbgRgwuzfrbbu gmrfgbkg kgrbj

.uar uagbmragwzkprbgRgfvcugkpgqzrbrlxgkpgftauop,gRgmvnugvoakgmkwu gpkz
bmragkbmuzgv nvlbvxu,gbmvbgrpgrbgamkso gpvoogksbgbmvbgftgmsfkszgamkso 
wouvaugkzgysfwgqrbmgbmkaugkpgakfugmkluabgfvlg.upkzugRg ru,gmugqkso gbmul
 uarzugvl gauucgbkg.ugviesvrlbu gqrbmgfujggRgmvnugxrnulgmrfgvgxzuvbg uvo
kpgfv u-qvt;gpkzgvoogbmvbgmugikso gmvnu,grlgfvltgtuvza,gviesrzu g.tgiokau
pvfrorvzrbt,gmugmvagauulgrlgbmzuug vtagrlgbmragfufkzrvo,gvl gfkzugaszuot
vl guhvibotjggVgwouvavlbgpvlit:gfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgRgqkso glkbgiklpuaagbk
vltgklugrlgwvzbrisovz,gRg uornuzgbkgbmugws.ori,gvl gaul gftg.uabgpzrul a
bkgvg.kkcauoouz’agamkw,gbmuzugbkgrlpkzfgbmufauonuagikliuzlrlxgftgfkab
auizubgbmksxmba;

gggggggggggggggggggg“Uhisbrul vg vfsagwzvuikz rvj”

ggggg[“Qugxrnugkszgmuvzbagbkg.uguhvfrlu j”--Wuzarsa,gNjg22j]

 r gR,g.tgxkk g rzuibrkl,gclkqgqmuzugbkgauucgvltgklugwzkwuzgpkzgft
iklnuzavbrkl,gRgamkso giuzbvrlotgxkgvgxzuvbgqvtgbkgprl gmrfgksb:gpkzgbmu
aquubluaagkpgasrbv.ougvl gvxzuuv.ougikfwvltgivllkb;grlgftgkwrlrkl,g.u
.ksxmbgbkkg uvzjggKgqmvbgvgbmrlxgragvgbzsugpzrul !ggmkqgbzsugragbmvbgko 
avtrlx,gbmvbgbmugsaugkpgvgpzrul gragfkzugwouvarlxgvl gluiuaavztgbmvlgbmu
uoufulbagkpgqvbuzgvl gprzu!

Bkgzubszlgbkgftgas.yuib:gbmuzugra,gbmul,glkgxzuvbgmvzfgrlg trlxgwzrnvbuot
vl gpvzgpzkfgmkfu;gqugikliurnugkszauonuagk.orxu gbkgzubrzugpkzglvbszvo
vibrklagouaagslauufotgvl gouaagbuzzr.ougbmvlgbmrajgg.sb,gfkzuknuz,gasim
vagvzugzu siu gbkgawrlgksbgvgoklxgovlxsramrlxgorpu,gksxmbglkb,gwuzmvwa,
bkgqramgbkgbzks.ougvgxzuvbgpvfrotgqrbmgbmurzgiklbrlsvogfrauzrua;
bmuzupkzugbmugRl rvla,grlgvgiuzbvrlgwzknrliu,gbmksxmbgrbgysabgbkgclkicgv
fvlgklgbmugmuv gqmulgzu siu gbkgasimgvgluiuaarbt;gvl grlgvlkbmuzgkpgbmurz
wzknrliua,gbmutgvoogpkzakkcgmrfgbkgamrpbgpkzgmrfauopgvagquoogvagmugikso j
Bkgqmkfg kgbmutglkb,gvbgovab,g.uikfugbu rksagvl grlaswwkzbv.ou?gbmu
kz rlvztgkppriuagkpgprpug kglkbgxkgbmvbgoulxbmjggTksgbuvimgtkszg.uab
pzrul agbkg.ugizsuogwuzpkziu;gmvz ulrlxgqrpugvl gimro zulg.tgoklxgsau
lurbmuzgbkgzuxvz glkzgbkgovfulbgtkszgasppuzrlxajggBmugxzkvlagkpgbmugabklu
vzugxzkqlgakgpvfrorvzgbkgftgwukwou,gbmvbglk.k tgbvcuagvltglkbriugkpgbmufj
Vl gbmksxmgqugamkso guhbzvibgakfugwouvaszugpzkfgbmurzgiklnuzavbrklg(qmrim
 kuaglkbgvoqvtagmvwwul,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmug rawvzrbtgkpgikl rbrkla,gqmrim
uvarotg.uxubagiklbufwbgkzgulntgbkqvz gvltgklugqmvbunuz),gragrbglkbgbkk
fsimgbkgfvcugv.saugkpgbmragmvopgvgorpubrfu?ggBmugfkzugRgamkso gauugbmuf
iklabzvrlgbmufauonuagksbgkpgvppuibrklgbkg.ugauznriuv.ougbkgfu,gbmugfkzugR
amkso g.ugakzztgpkzgbmurzgwvrlajggQugmvnugor.uzbtgbkgouvl,g.sbglkbgbkgovt
kszgqmkougqurxmbgswklgkbmuza,gakgvagbkgwzkwgkszauonuag.tgbmurzgzsrl;gorcu
mrfgqmkgivsau gorbbougimro zul’agbmzkvbagbkg.ugisbgbkgfvcugsaugkpgbmurz
.okk gpkzgbmugiszugkpgvg rauvaugmugmv ,gkzgbmvbgkbmuz,gqmkgqva
iklbrlsvootgaswworu gqrbmgbul uzgtkslxgxrzoagbkgcuuwgmragko gorf.agqvzf
rlgbmuglrxmb,gvl gbkgfrhgbmugaquubluaagkpgbmurzg.zuvbmgqrbmgmra,gakszgvl 
abrlcrlxjggRgamkso gzuv rotgv nraugNulriugvagvgzubzuvbgrlgbmrag uiorlugkp
orpujgg uizuwrbs ugragvgakorbvztgesvorbtjggRgvfgakirv.ougunulgbkguhiuaa,
tubgRgbmrlcgrbgzuvaklv.ougbmvbgRgamkso glkqgqrbm zvqgftgbzks.ouagpzkfgbmu
arxmbgkpgbmugqkzo gvl gcuuwgbmufgbkgftauopjggOubgfugamzrlcgvl g zvqgsw
ftauopgrlgftgkqlgamuoo,gorcugvgbkzbkrau,gvl gouvzlgbkgauugfulgqrbmksb
mvlxrlxgswklgbmufjggRgamkso gul vlxuzgbmufgrlgakgaorwwuztgvgwvaavxu:g‘bra
brfugbkgbszlgftg.vicgbkgikfwvltj

“.sb,grlgbmuaugbzvnuoa,gtksgqroog.ugbvculgroogrlgakfugqzubimu gwoviu,
qmuzuglkbmrlxgivlg.ugmv gbkgzuorunugtksj”ggRgvoqvtagivzztgfkabgbmrlxa
luiuaavztgv.ksbgfu;gvl g.uar ua,gqugivllkbgunv ugPkzbslugrpgamugkliu
zuakonuagbkgvbbvicgsajggRgluu glkbmrlxguhbzvkz rlvztgqmulgRgvfgaricj
Rgqrooglkbg.ug.umko ulgbkgftg.kosagbkg kgbmvbgpkzgfugqmrimglvbszugivllkbj
Vbgbmugnuztg.uxrllrlxgkpgftgpunuzagvl garicluaauagbmvbgivabgfug kql,
qmroabgabroogulbrzu,gvl g.sbgorbbou,g rakz uzu grlgmuvobm,gRgzuiklirou
ftauopgbkgVofrxmbtgXk g.tgbmugovabgImzrabrvl,gkppriua,gvl gprl gftauopg.t
akg krlxgouaagkwwzuaau gvl gfkzuguvat,gvl gmvnugxkb,gfubmrlca,gakgfsim
bmug.ubbuzgkpgftg rauvaujggVl gRgmvnugtubgouaagluu gkpgvglkbvztgkz
ikslauookzgbmvlgkpgvgwmtarirvljggQmvbgRgmvnuglkbgaubbou gkpgftgvppvrza
qmulgRgqvagrlgmuvobm,goubglkgkluguhwuibgRgamkso g kgrbgqmulgRgvfgaricj
QmvbgRgqroog kgpkzgbmugauznriugkpg uvbmgragvoqvtag klu;gRg szabglkbgak
fsimgvagklug vtg upuzgrb;gvl grpglkbmrlxg.ug klu,g‘bragvagfsimgvagbkgavt
urbmuzgbmvbg ks.bgmrl uzu gftgimkriug(vl gakfubrfuag‘bragquoogimkaulglkb
bkgimkkau),gkzgbmvbgRgqvagwkarbrnuotgzuakonu glkbgbkg kgvltbmrlxgvbgvooj

Rgqzrbugftg.kkcgpkzgpuqgfulgvl gpkzgpuqgtuvzajggMv grbg.uulgfvbbuzgkp
 szvbrkl,gRgamkso gmvnugwsbgrbgrlbkgprzfuzgovlxsvxujggViikz rlxgbkgbmu
iklbrlsvognvzrvbrklgbmvbgkszagmvag.uulgas.yuibgbk,gswgbkgbmrag vt,gqmk
ivlguhwuibgbmvbgrbagwzuaulbgpkzfgamkso g.ugrlgsaugprpbtgtuvzagmuliu?
Rbgaorwagunuztg vtgbmzksxmgkszgprlxuza,gvl garliugRgqvag.kzl,grbgra
vobuzu gv.knugklu-mvopjggQugavtgbmvbgrbgraglkqgwuzpuib;gvl gunuztgvxu
avtagbmugavfugkpgrbagkqljggRgamvoogmvz otgbzsabgbkgbmvb,gakgoklxgvagrb
nvzruagvl gimvlxuagvagrbg kuajgg‘Bragpkzgxkk gvl gsaupsogqzrbrlxagbk
zrnubgrbgbkgbmuf,gvl grbagzuwsbvbrklgqroogxkgviikz rlxgbkgbmugpkzbslugkp
kszgabvbujggPkzgqmrimgzuvaklgRgvfglkbgvpzvr gbkgrlauzbgrlgrbgaunuzvo
wzrnvbugvzbrioua,gqmrimgqroogawul gbmurzgsaugvfklxabgbmugfulgbmvbgvzuglkq
ornrlx,gvl gbmvbgikliuzlgbmugwvzbrisovzgclkqou xugkpgakfugqmkgqroogauu
pszbmuzgrlbkgbmufgbmvlgunuztgikffklgzuv uzjggRgqrooglkb,gvpbuzgvoo,gvagR
kpbulgmuvzg uv gfulgawkculgkp,gbmvbgfulgamkso gavtgkpgfu:g“Mugys xu ,gmu
ornu gakgvl gak;gmugqkso gmvnug klugbmragkzgbmvb;gikso gmugmvnugawkcul
qmulgmugqvag trlx,gmugqkso gmvnugavr gakgkzgak,gvl gmvnugxrnulgbmragbmrlx
kzgb’kbmuz;gRgcluqgmrfg.ubbuzgbmvlgvltj”ggLkq,gvagfsimgvag uiulit
wuzfrba,gRgmuzug raiknuzgftgrliorlvbrklagvl gvppuibrkla;g.sbgRg kgfkzu
qroorlxotgvl gpzuuotg.tgqkz gkpgfksbmgbkgvltgklugqmkg uarzuagbkg.u
rlpkzfu jggAkgrbgragbmvbgrlgbmuaugfufkrza,grpgvltgklugk.auznu,gmugqroo
prl gbmvbgRgmvnugurbmuzgbko gkzg uarxlu gbkgbuoogvoo;gqmvbgRgivllkb
uhwzuaa,gRgwkrlbgksbgqrbmgftgprlxuz:

gggggggggggggg“Nuzsfgvlrfkgavbragmvuignuabrxrvgwvznvgavxvir
gggggggggggggggAslb,gwuzgesvugwkaaragikxlkaiuzugivubuzvgbsbu”

ggggg[“.tgbmuaugpkkbabuwagvgavxvirksagfrl gfvltguvarotgprl gvoogkbmuz
gggggfvbbuzag(vzugaspprirulbgbkgulv.ougklugbkgouvzlgbmugzuabgquooj)”
gggggg--Osizubrsa,grjg403j]

Rgouvnuglkbmrlxgbkg.ug uarzu gkzgbkg.ugxsuaau gvbgikliuzlrlxgfujggRp
wukwougfsabg.ugbvocrlxgkpgfu,gRgqkso gmvnugrbgbkg.ugysabotgvl gbzsot;gR
qkso gikfugvxvrl,gqrbmgvoogftgmuvzb,gpzkfgbmugkbmuzgqkzo gbkgxrnugvltgklu
bmugorugqmkgamkso gzuwkzbgfugkbmuzgbmvlgRgqva,gbmksxmgmug r grbgbkgmklksz
fujggRgwuziurnugbmvbgwukwougzuwzuaulb,gunulgornrlxgful,gesrbugvlkbmuz
bmrlxgbmvlgqmvbgbmutgzuvootgvzu;gvl gmv gRglkbgabksbotg upul u gvgpzrul 
qmkfgRgmvnugokab,--[ ugovg.kubruj]--bmutgqkso gmvnugbkzlgmrfgrlbkgv
bmksavl giklbzvztgwruiuaj

Bkgiklios ugbmugviikslbgkpgftgwkkzgmsfksza,gRgiklpuaagbmvbgrlgftgbzvnuoa
Rgauo kfgzuvimgftgrllg.sbgbmvbgrbgikfuagrlbkgftgfrl gbkgiklar uzgqmubmuz
Rgikso gbmuzug.ugaricgvl g trlxgvbgftguvaujggRg uarzugbkg.ugok xu grl
akfugwzrnvbugwvzbgkpgbmugmksau,gzufkbugpzkfgvooglkrau,groogaiulba,gvl 
afkcujggRgul uvnkszgbkgpovbbuzg uvbmg.tgbmuaugpzrnkoksagirzisfabvliua;
kz,gbkgavtg.ubbuz,gbkg raimvzxugftauopgpzkfgvoogkbmuzgrlisf.zvliua,gbmvb
Rgfvtgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkg k,glkzg.ugbzks.ou gqrbmgvltbmrlxg.sbgbmvbgqmrim
qroogorugmuvntgulksxmgswklgfugqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgokv jggRgqkso gmvnugft
 uvbmgamvzugrlgbmuguvaugvl giklnulruliuagkpgftgorpu;g‘bragvgxzuvbgwvzbgkp
rb,gvl gkpgxzuvbgrfwkzbvliu,gvl gRgmkwugrbgqrooglkbgrlgbmugpsbszu
iklbzv ribgbmugwvabjgg uvbmgmvagakfugpkzfagbmvbgvzugfkzuguvatgbmvl
kbmuza,gvl gzuiurnuag rnuzagesvorbrua,gviikz rlxgbkgunuztgklu’agpvlitj
Vfklxabgbmuglvbszvog uvbma,gbmvbgqmrimgwzkiuu agpzkfgquvcluaagvl gabswkz
Rgbmrlcgbmugfkabgpvnkszv.ou;gvfklxabgbmkaugbmvbgvzugnrkoulb,gRgivlgqkzau
ul szugbkgbmrlcgkpgvgwzuirwriugbmvlgkpgbmugpvoogkpgvgmksaugbmvbgqroo
izsamgfugrlgvgfkfulb,gvl gkpgvgqksl gqrbmgvgaqkz gbmvlgkpgvgmvzesu.sa
amkb;gRgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnugimkaulgbkgwkraklgftauopgqrbmgAkizvbua,gbmvl
abv.gftauopgqrbmgIvbkjggVl ,gbmksxmgrb,g.ugvoogklu,gtubgftgrfvxrlvbrkl
fvcuagvagxzuvbgvg rppuzuliugvag.ubqrhbg uvbmgvl gorpu,g.ubqrhbgbmzkqrlx
ftauopgrlbkgvg.szlrlxgpszlviugvl gwoslxrlxgrlbkgbmugimvlluogkpgvgzrnuz:
akgr otg kuagkszgpuvzgfkzugikliuzlgrbauopgrlgbmugfuvlagbmvlgbmuguppuibj
Rbgrag.sbgvlgrlabvlb,g‘bragbzsu,g.sbgqrbmvogvlgrlabvlbgkpgasimgqurxmb,
bmvbgRgqkso gqroorlxotgxrnugvgxzuvbgfvltg vtagkpgftgorpugbkgwvaagrbgknuz
vpbuzgftgkqlgpvamrkljggArliugunuztgklu’agrfvxrlvbrklgzul uzagrbgfkzugkz
ouaagbuzzr.ou,gvl garliugunuztgklugmvagakfugimkriugvfklxabgbmugaunuzvo
pkzfagkpg trlx,goubgsagbztgvgorbbougpszbmuzgbkgprl gakfugklugbmvbgra
qmkootgiouvzgpzkfgvoogkppuliujggFrxmbglkbgklugzul uzgrbgunulgnkoswbsksa,
orcugbmugIkffktrulbuagkpgVlbkltgvl gIoukwvbzv?ggRgaubgvar ugbmug.zvnugvl 
uhufwovztguppkzbagwzk siu g.tgwmrokakwmtgvl gzuorxrkl;g.sb,gvfklxabgful
kpgorbbougfvzcgbmuzugmvnug.uulgpksl gakfu,gasimgvagWubzklrsagvl 
BrxuoorlsagvbgZkfu,gikl uflu gbkg uawvbimgbmufauonua,gqmkgmvnu,gvagrb
quzu,gzkicu g uvbmgvaouuwgqrbmgbmug uorivitgkpgbmurzgwzuwvzvbrkla;gbmut
mvnugfv ugrbgaorwgvl gabuvogvqvtgrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgbmurzgviisabkfu 
 rnuzarklagvfklxabgxrzoagvl gxkk gpuookqa;glkbgvgqkz gkpgiklakovbrkl,glk
fulbrklgkpgfvcrlxgvgqroo,glkgvf.rbrksagvppuibvbrklgkpgiklabvlit,glkgbvoc
kpgbmurzgpsbszugikl rbrkl;gvfklxabgawkzba,gpuvabrlxa,gqrb,gvl gfrzbm,
ikffklgvl grl rppuzulbg raikszaua,gfsari,gvl gvfkzksagnuzauajggQuzugrb
lkbgwkaar.ougpkzgsagbkgrfrbvbugbmragzuakosbrklgvpbuzgvgfkzug uiulb
fvlluz?ggArliugbmuzugvzug uvbmagbmvbgvzugxkk gpkzgpkkoa,g uvbmagxkk gpkz
bmugqrau,goubgsagprl gksbgasimgvagvzugprbgpkzgbmkaugqmkgvzug.ubqrhbg.kbmj
Ftgrfvxrlvbrklgasxxuabagbkgfugklugbmvbgraguvat,gvl ,garliugqugfsabg ru,
bkg.ug uarzu jggBmugZkfvlgbtzvlbagbmksxmbgbmutg r ,grlgvgfvlluz,gxrnugv
izrfrlvogorpugqmulgbmutgxvnugmrfgbmugimkriugkpgmrag uvbmjgg.sbgqvaglkb
Bmukwmzvabsa,gbmvbgakg uorivbu,gakgfk uab,gvl gakgqraugvgwmrokakwmuz,
ikfwuoou g.tgzuvakl,gqmulgmug szabgavtgbmragnuzau,gbzvlaovbu g.tgIriuzk:

ggggggggggggggg“Nrbvfgzuxrbgpkzbslv,glklgavwrulbrv?”

ggggggggggggggg[“Pkzbslu,glkbgqra kf,gaqvtagmsfvlgorpuj”
gggggggggggggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,gNjg31j]

Pkzbslugvaarabagbmugpvirorbtgkpgbmug.vzxvrlgkpgftgorpu,gmvnrlxgwoviu grb
rlgasimgvgikl rbrklgbmvbgpkzgbmugpsbszugrbgivlg.uglurbmuzgv nvlbvxuglkz
mrl zvliugbkgbmkaugqmkgvzugikliuzlu grlgfu;g‘bragvgikl rbrklgbmvbgRgqkso 
mvnugviiuwbu gvbgvltgbrfugkpgftgorpu;g.sbgrlgbmragkiivarklgkpgbzsaarlxgsw
ftg.vxxvxu,gRgvfgwvzbrisovzotgwouvau gbmvbgrlg trlxgRgamvooglurbmuzg k
bmufgxkk glkzgmvzfjggAmugmvagakgkz uzu grb,g.tgvgisllrlxgikfwulavbrkl,
bmvbgbmutgqmkgfvtgwzubul gbkgvltgiklar uzv.ougv nvlbvxug.tgftg uvbmgqroo,
vbgbmugavfugbrfu,gasabvrlgvgfvbuzrvogrliklnulruliujgg uvbmgakfubrfuagra
fkzugxzrunksagbkgsa,grlgbmvbgrbgragxzrunksagbkgkbmuza,gvl grlbuzuabagsa
rlgbmurzgrlbuzuabgvagfsimgvagrlgkszgkql,gvl gakfubrfuagfkzuj

Rlgbmragiklnulrulitgkpgok xrlxgbmvbgRg uarzu,gRgfrhglkbmrlxgkpgwkfwgvl 
vfworbs u--Rgmvbugrbgzvbmuz;g.sbgvgiuzbvrlgwovrlgluvbluaa,gqmrimgra
kpbuluabgpksl grlgwoviuagqmuzugbmuzugragouaagkpgvzb,gvl gbmvbgLvbszugmva
v kzlu gqrbmgakfugxzviugbmvbgragvoogmuzgkql:

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgvfworbuz,gauvgfsl rbuzgiklnrnrsfj”

ggggg[“Bkguvbglkbgovzxuot,g.sbgiouvlotj”--Luwka,gOrpugkpgVbbrisa,gijg13]

gggggggggggggggggggg“Wosagavoragesvfgasfwbsaj”

ggggg[“Zvbmuzgulksxmgbmvlgikabotg(Fkzugqrbgbmvlgikab)”--Lklrsa,ghrjg19j]

Vl g.uar ua,g‘bragpkzgbmkaugqmkaugvppvrzagikfwuogbmufgbkgbzvnuogrlgbmu
 uwbmgkpgqrlbuzgbmzksxmgbmugXzraklagikslbztgbkg.ugaszwzrau gswklgbmugqvt
qrbmgxzuvbgrliklnulruliuajggR,gqmk,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbzvnuogpkzgft
wouvaszu,g kglkbgkz uzgftgvppvrzagakgroojggRpgbmugqvtg.ugpksogklgftgzrxmb
mvl ,gRgbszlgklgftgoupb;grpgRgprl gftauopgslprbgbkgzr u,gRgabvtgqmuzugR
vf;gvl ,gakg krlx,grlguvzluabgRgauuglkbmrlxgbmvbgraglkbgvagwouvavlbgvl 
ikffk rksagvagftgkqlgmksaujgg‘BragbzsugbmvbgRgvoqvtagprl gaswuzposrbt
aswuzposksa,gvl gk.auznugvgcrl gkpgbzks.ougunulgrlgv.sl vliugrbauopj
MvnugRgoupbgvltbmrlxg.umrl gfugslauul,gRgxkg.vicgbkgauugrb;g‘bragabroogkl
ftgqvt;gRgbzviuglkgiuzbvrlgorlu,gurbmuzgabzvrxmbgkzgizkkcu j--[Zksaauvs
mvagbzvlaovbu gbmragwvaavxugrlgmragUfrou,g.kkcgnj]-- kgRglkbgprl grlgbmu
woviugbkgqmrimgRgxkgqmvbgqvagzuwkzbu gbkgfu--vagrbgkpbulgpvooagksbgbmvb
bmugys xfulbagkpgkbmuzag kglkbgysfwgqrbmgfrlu,gvl gbmvbgRgmvnugpksl 
bmurzgzuwkzbagpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgpvoau--Rglunuzgikfwovrlgkpgokarlxgft
ov.ksz:gRgmvnu,gvbgouvab,grlpkzfu gftauopgbmvbgqmvbgqvagbko gfugqvaglkb
bzsuj

Rgmvnugvgiklabrbsbrklgkpg.k tgvagpzuu,gvl gvgwvovbugvagrl rppuzulb,gva
vltgfvlgornrlx:gbmug rnuzarbtgkpgfvlluzagkpgaunuzvoglvbrklagklotgvppuiba
fugrlgbmugwouvaszugkpgnvzrubt:gunuztgsavxugmvagrbagzuvakljggOubgbmugwovbu
vl g ramuag.ugwuqbuz,gqkk ,gkzguvzbm;gftgfuvbg.ug.krou gkzgzkvabu ;goub
bmufgxrnugfug.sbbuzgkzgkro,gkpglsbagkzgkornua,gmkbgkzgiko ,g‘bragvoogklu
bkgfu;gvl gakgrl rppuzulb,gbmvbgxzkqrlxgko ,gRgviisaugbmragxuluzksa
pvisobt,gvl gqkso gqramgbmvbg uorivitgvl gimkriugamkso gikzzuibgbmu
rl raizubrklgkpgftgvwwubrbu,gvl gakfubrfuagakkbmugftgabkfvimjggQmulgR
mvnug.uulgv.zkv gksbgkpgPzvliugvl gbmvbgwukwou,gksbgkpgikszbuat,gmvnu
vacu gfugrpgRgqkso g.ugauznu gvpbuzgbmugPzulimgfvlluz,gRgovsxmu gvbgbmu
esuabrkl,gvl gvoqvtagpzuesulbu gbv.ouagbmugfkabgproou gqrbmgpkzurxluzaj
Rgvfgvamvfu gbkgauugkszgikslbztfulg.uakbbu gqrbmgbmragpkkoramgmsfkszgkp
esvzzuoorlxgqrbmgpkzfagiklbzvztgbkgbmurzgkql;gbmutgauufgbkg.ugksbgkp
bmurzguoufulbgqmulgksbgkpgbmurzgkqlgnroovxu:gqmuzunuzgbmutgxk,gbmutgcuuw
bkgbmurzgkqlgpvamrklagvl gv.kfrlvbugbmkaugkpgabzvlxuzajgg kgbmutgfuub
qrbmgvgikfwvbzrkbgrlgMslxvzt?ggKgbmugmvwwtgimvliu!ggBmutgvzugmuliupkzqvz 
rlauwvzv.ou;gbmutgiorlxgbkxubmuz,gvl gbmurzgqmkoug raikszaugragbkgikl ufl
bmug.vz.vzksagfvlluzagbmutgauugv.ksbgbmufjggQmtg.vz.vzksa,g.uivsaugbmut
vzuglkbgPzulim?ggVl gbmkaugmvnugfv ugbmug.uabgsaugkpgbmurzgbzvnuoagqmk
mvnugk.auznu gfkabgbkgawuvcgvxvrlabjggFkabgkpgbmufgxkgpkzglkgkbmuzgul 
.sbgbkgikfug.vicgvxvrl;gbmutgwzkiuu grlgbmurzgbzvnuogqrbmgnvabgxzvnrbt
vl girzisfawuibrkl,gqrbmgvgaroulbgvl grlikffslriv.ougwzs uliu,gwzuauznrlx
bmufauonuagpzkfgbmugiklbvxrklgkpgvlgslclkqlgvrzjggQmvbgRgvfgavtrlxgkp
bmufgwsbagfugrlgfrl gkpgakfubmrlxgorcugrbgRgmvnugvbgbrfuagk.auznu grl
akfugkpgkszgtkslxgikszbruza;gbmutgqrooglkbgfrhgqrbmgvltg.sbgfulgkpgbmurz
kqlgakzb,gvl gokkcgswklgsagvagfulgkpgvlkbmuzgqkzo ,gqrbmg ra vrlgkzgwrbtj
Wsbgbmufgswklgvltg raikszaug.sbgbmugrlbzrxsuagkpgbmugikszb,gvl gbmutgvzu
sbbuzotgvbgvgokaa;gvagnuztgkqoagvl glknriuagbkgsagvagqugvzugbkgbmufj
‘Bragbzsotgavr gbmvbgvgquoo-.zu gfvlgragvgikfwksl gfvljggR,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbzvnuognuztgfsimgavbu gqrbmgkszgkqlgpvamrkla;gRg kglkbgokkcgpkz
XvaiklagrlgArirot;gRgmvnugoupbgulksxmgkpgbmufgvbgmkfu;gRgzvbmuzgauucgpkz
Xzuucagvl gWuzarvla;gbmutgvzugbmugfulgRgul uvnkszgbkg.ugviesvrlbu gqrbm
vl gbmugfulgRgabs t;g‘bragbmuzugbmvbgRg.uabkqgvl gufwoktgftauopjggVl 
qmrimgragfkzu,gRgpvlitgbmvbgRgmvnugfubg.sbgqrbmgpuqgisabkfagbmvbgvzuglkb
vagxkk gvagkszgkql;gRgmvnuglkb,gRgiklpuaa,gbzvnuoou gnuztgpvz;gaivziugksb
kpgbmugarxmbgkpgbmugnvluagkpgftgkqlgmksauj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gfkabgkpgbmugviir ulbvogikfwvltgvgfvlgpvooagrlbkgswklgbmu
zkv g.uxubgmrfgfkzugbzks.ougbmvlgwouvaszu;gRgqvrnugbmufgvagfsimgvagR
irnrootgivl,guawuirvootglkqgbmvbgvxugauufagrlgakfugakzbgbkgwzrnrouxugvl 
auesuabuzgfugpzkfgbmugikffklgpkzfajggTksgasppuzgpkzgkbmuzagkzgkbmuza
asppuzgpkzgtks;g.kbmgkpgbmufgrliklnulruliuagkpgrfwkzbvliugulksxm,g.sbgbmu
ovbbuzgvwwuvzagbkgfugbmugxzuvbuzjgg‘Bragvgzvzugpkzbslu,g.sbgkp
rluabrfv.ougakoviu;gbkgmvnugvgqkzbmtgfvl,gklugkpgvgaksl gys xfulbgvl gkp
fvlluzagiklpkzfv.ougbkgtkszgkql,gqmkgbvcuagvg uorxmbgbkg.uvzgtksgikfwvltj
Rgmvnug.uulgvbgvlgrlprlrbugokaagpkzgasimgswklgftgbzvnuoajgg.sbgasimgv
ikfwvlrklgamkso g.ugimkaulgvl gviesrzu gpzkfgtkszgprzabgaubbrlxgksbj
Bmuzugivlg.uglkgwouvaszugbkgfugqrbmksbgikffslrivbrkl:gbmuzugraglkbgak
fsimgvagvgawzrxmbotgbmksxmbgikfuagrlbkgftgfrl ,gbmvbgrbg kuaglkbgxzrunu
fugbkgmvnugwzk siu gvoklu,gvl gbmvbgRgmvnuglkgklugbkgikffslrivbugrbgbk:

gggggggggg“Argisfgmviguhiuwbrklug ubszgavwrulbrv,
ggggggggggsbgroovfgrliosavfgbuluvf,gluigulslbruf,gzuyrirvfj”

ggggg[“Rpgqra kfg.ugiklpuzzu gqrbmgbmragzuauznvbrkl,gbmvbgRgfsabgcuuwgrb
gggggbkgftauop,gvl glkbgikffslrivbugrbgbkgkbmuza,gRgqkso glklugkpgrbj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g6j]

Bmragkbmuzgmvagabzvrlu grbgkluglkbugmrxmuz:

ggggg“Argiklbrxuzrbguvgnrbvgavwrulbr,gsbgkffsfgzuzsfgvporsulbr.sagikwrra,
gggggesvfnragkflrv,gesvugikxlrbrklug rxlvgaslb,gasffkgkbrkgauisfgrwau
gggggiklar uzubgubgiklbufwoubsz,gbvful,gargakorbs kgbvlbvgarb,gsbgmkfrluf
gggggnr uzuglklgwkaarb,guhiu vbgvgnrbvj”

ggggg[“Rpgasimgvgikl rbrklgkpgorpugamkso gmvwwulgbkgvgqraugfvl,gbmvbgrl
gggggbmugxzuvbuabgwoulbtgkpgvoogiklnulruliuagmugfrxmb,gvbgbmugfkab
gggggsl rabsz.u gouraszu,giklar uzgvl giklbufwovbugvoogbmrlxagqkzbmgbmu
gggggclkqrlx,gtubgrpgmragakorbs ug.ugasimgbmvbgmugfsabglkbgauugvgfvl,goub
gggggmrfg uwvzbgpzkfgorpuj”--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg43j]

Vzimrbvagwouvauagfugqmulgmugavta,g“bmvbgrbgqkso g.ugslwouvavlb,gunulgrl
muvnulgrbauop,gbkgqvl uzgrlgbmkaugxzuvbgvl g rnrlugiuouabrvog.k rua
qrbmksbgvgikfwvlrkljgg.sbgtubg‘bragfsimg.ubbuzgbkg.ugvoklugbmvlgrl
pkkoramgvl gbzks.ouakfugikfwvltjggVzrabrwwsagoknu gbkgornugvagvgabzvlxuz
rlgvoogwoviua:

gggggggggggggg“Fugargpvbvgfuragwvbuzulbszg siuzugnrbvf
gggggggggggggggVsawrirra,”

ggggg[“Rpgbmugpvbuagqkso goubgfugornugrlgftgkqlgqvtj”--VUlur ,grnjg340j]

Rgamkso gimkkaugbkgwvaagvqvtgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgftgorpugklgmkzau.vic:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Nrauzugxuabrula,
ggggggggggggggggggggEsvgwvlug u.viimulbszgrxlua,
ggggggggggggggggggggEsvglu.sov,gwosnrresugzkzuaj”

ggggg[“Nrarbgbmugzuxrklagqmuzugbmugaslg.szla,gqmuzugvzugbmugbmric
gggggzvrl-ioks agvl gbmugpzkabaj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg3,g54j]

“Mvnugtksglkbgfkzuguvatg rnuzarklagvbgmkfu?ggQmvbg kgtksgbmuzugqvlb?ggRa
lkbgtkszgmksaugarbsvbu grlgvgaquubgvl gmuvobmpsogvrz,gaspprirulbot
pszlramu ,gvl gfkzugbmvlgaspprirulbotgovzxu?ggMvaglkbgbmugzktvogfvyuabt
.uulgfkzugbmvlgkliugbmuzugulbuzbvrlu gqrbmgvoogrbagbzvrl?ggVzugbmuzuglkb
fkzug.uokqgtkszgpvfrotgrlgxkk guvaugbmvlgbmuzugvzugv.knugrbgrlgufrluliu?
Ragbmuzugvltgokivo,guhbzvkz rlvzt,grl rxuabr.ougbmksxmbgbmvbgvpporiba
tks?”

gggggggggg“Esvgbkglsligikesvb,gubgnuhubgas.gwuibkzugprhvj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgfvtglkqgqkzztgtks,gvl gnuh,gprhu grlgtkszg.zuvabj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugAuluib,gijg1,gUhgUllrkj]

“Qmuzug kgtksgbmrlcgbkgornugqrbmksbg rabsz.vliu?”

ggggggggggggggggggg“LslesvfgarfworirbuzgPkzbslvgrl soxubj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Pkzbslugraglunuzgarfwotgikfwovravlbg(slfrhu )j”
gggggggggggggggg--EsrlbsagIszbrsa,grnjg14]

Tksgauu,gbmul,grbgragklotgtksgbmvbgbzks.ougtkszauop;gtksgqroogunuztqmuzu
pkookqgtkszauop,gvl gunuztqmuzugikfwovrl;gpkzgbmuzugraglkgavbrapvibrkl
muzug.uokq,g.sbgurbmuzgpkzg.zsbramgkzgpkzg rnrlugaksoajggMugqmk,gklgak
ysabgvlgkiivarkl,gmvaglkgiklbulbfulb,gqmuzugqroogmugbmrlcgbkgprl grb?
Mkqgfvltgbmksavl agkpgfulgbuzfrlvbugbmurzgqramuagrlgasimgvgikl rbrklgva
tksza?gg kg.sbgzupkzfgtkszauop;gpkzgbmvbgragqmkootgrlgtkszgkqlgwkquz!
qmuzuvagtksgmvnuglkgkbmuzgzrxmbg.sbgwvbruliugbkqvz agpkzbslu:

gggggggggg“Lsoovgwovir vgesruaguab,glrargesvfgzvbrkgikfwkasrbj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugraglkgbzvlesroorbtg.sbgbmvbgqmrimgzuvaklgmvagiklpuzzu j”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g56j]

Rgauugbmugzuvaklgkpgbmragv nriu,gvl gauugrbgwuzpuibotgquoo;g.sbgmugfrxmb
akkluzgmvnug klu,gvl gfkzugwuzbrlulbot,grlg.r  rlxgfugrlgklugqkz g.u
qrau;gbmvbgzuakosbrklgrag.utkl gqra kf;g‘bragmuzgwzuiraugqkzcgvl 
wzk sibjggBmsagbmugwmtarirvlgcuuwagwzuvimrlxgbkgvgwkkzgovlxsramrlx
wvbrulbgbkg“.ugimuuzpso”;g.sbgmugqkso gv nraugmrfgvgorbbougfkzu
 raizuubotgrlg.r  rlxgmrfg“.ugquooj”ggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgvfg.sbgvgfvlgkpgbmu
ikffklgakzbjgg‘Bragvgqmkouakfugwzuiuwb,giuzbvrlgvl guvatgbkg.u
sl uzabkk ,g“.ugiklbulbgqrbmgqmvbgtksgmvnu,”gbmvbgragbkgavt,gqrbmgzuvakl:
vl gtubgbkgpkookqgbmragv nriugraglkgfkzugrlgbmugwkquzgkpgbmugqraugfulgkp
bmugqkzo gbmvlgrlgfujgg‘Bragvgikffklgavtrlx,g.sbgkpgvgbuzzr.ouguhbulb:
qmvbg kuagrbglkbgikfwzumul ?ggVoogbmrlxagpvoogsl uzg raizubrklgvl 
esvorprivbrkljggRgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvb,gbkgbvcugrbg.tgbmugoubbuz,gbmra
wouvaszugkpgbzvnuoorlxgragvgbuabrfkltgkpgsluvarluaagvl grzzuakosbrkl,
vl ,grlgakkbm,gbmuaugbqkgvzugkszgxknuzlrlxgvl gwzu kfrlvbrlxgesvorbruaj
Tua,gRgiklpuaa,gRgauuglkbmrlx,glkbgakgfsimgvagrlgvg zuvf,grlgvgqram,
qmuzuklgRgikso gaubgswgftgzuab:gnvzrubtgklot,gvl gbmugwkaauaarklgkp
 rnuzarbt,givlgavbraptgfu;gbmvbgra,grpgvltbmrlxgivljggRlgbzvnuoorlx,grb
wouvauagfugbmvbgRgfvtgabvtgqmuzugRgorcu,gqrbmksbgrliklnulruliu,gvl gbmvb
Rgmvnugvgwoviugqmuzurlgikffk rksaotgbkg rnuzbgftauopjggRgoknugvgwzrnvbu
orpu,g.uivsaug‘bragftgkqlgimkriugbmvbgRgoknugrb,glkbg.tgvltg raaulbrlx
pzkfgkzg raorcugkpgws.origorpu,gqmrim,gwuzv nulbszu,gragvagfsimgviikz rlx
bkgftgikfwouhrkljggRgauznugftgwzrliugfkzugimuuzpsootg.uivsaugrbgrag.tgbmu
pzuuguouibrklgkpgftgkqlgys xfulbgvl gzuvakl,gqrbmksbgvltgwvzbrisovz
k.orxvbrkl;gvl gbmvbgRgvfglkbgzu siu gvl giklabzvrlu gakgbkg kgpkzg.urlx
zuyuibu gkzg raorcu g.tgbmugkbmuzgwvzbt;gvl gakgkpgvoogbmugzuabjggRgmvbu
bmugfkzauoagbmvbgluiuaarbtgivznuagfu;gvltgikffk rbtgswklgqmrimgRgmv gklot
bkg uwul gqkso gmvnugfug.tgbmugbmzkvb;

gggggggggg“Vobuzgzufsagvesva,gvobuzgfrmrgzv vbgvzulva;”

ggggg[“Oubgfugmvnugklugkvzgrlgbmugqvbuz,gvl gqrbmgbmugkbmuzgzvcugbmu
gggggamkzuj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg3,g23j]

klugikz gqrooglunuzgmko gfugpvabgulksxmjggTksgqroogavt,gbmuzugragnvlrbt
rlgbmragqvtgkpgornrlxjgg.sbgqmuzugragbmuzuglkb?ggVoogbmuaugprlugwzuiuwba
vzugnvlrbt,gvl gvoogqra kfgragnvlrbt:

ggggg“ kfrlsaglknrbgikxrbvbrkluagavwrulbsf,gesklrvfgnvlvugaslbj”

ggggg[“BmugOkz gclkqubmgbmugbmksxmbagkpgbmugqrau,gbmvbgbmutgvzugnvrlj”
gggggg--WajghirrrjgRR;gkzgRgIkzjgrrrjg20j]

Bmuauguhesrarbugas.boubruagvzugklotgprbgpkzgauzfkla;gbmutgvzug raikszaua
bmvbgqroogaul gsagvoogav  ou grlbkgbmugkbmuzgqkzo jggOrpugragvgfvbuzrvo
vl gikzwkzvogfkbrkl,gvlgvibrklgrfwuzpuibgvl grzzuxsovzgkpgrbagkqlgwzkwuz
uaauliu;gRgfvcugrbgftg.sarluaagbkgauznugrbgviikz rlxgbkgrbauop:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Esraesugaskagwvbrfszgfvluaj”

ggggg[“Quguvimgkpgsagasppuzgkszgkqlgwvzbrisovzg ufklj”--VUlur ,gnrjg743j]

ggggg“Ariguabgpvirul sf,gsbgiklbzvglvbszvfgslrnuzavfglrmrogiklbul vfsa;
ggggguvgbvfulgiklauznvbvgwzkwzrvfgauesvfszj”

ggggg[“Qugfsabgakgkz uzgrbgvag.tglkgfuvlagbkgiklbul gvxvrlabgslrnuzavo
ggggglvbszu;g.sbgtub,gbmvbgzsoug.urlxgk.auznu ,gbkgpkookqgkszgkqlj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKppiij,grjgg31j]

Bkgqmvbgul gvzugbmuauguounvbu gwkrlbagkpgwmrokakwmt,gswklgqmrimglkgmsfvl
.urlxgivlgzuot?gvl gbmkaugzsouagbmvbguhiuu g.kbmgkszgsaugvl gpkziu?

Rgauugkpbulgbmvbgqugmvnugbmukzruagkpgorpugaubg.upkzugsagqmrimglurbmuzgbmu
wzkwkauzglkzgbmkaugqmkgmuvzgmrfgmvnugvltgmkwu,glkz,gqmrimgragfkzu,gvlt
rliorlvbrklgbkgpkookqjggKpgbmugavfugamuubgkpgwvwuzgqmuzuklgbmugys xugmva
.sbgysabgqzrbbulgvgaulbuliugvxvrlabgvlgv sobuzuz,gmugabuvoagvgwruiu
qmuzuklgbkgqzrbugvgoknu-oubbuzgbkgmragikfwvlrkl’agqrpujggAmugqmkfgtks
mvnug.sbgysabglkqgroorirbotguf.zviu gqroogwzuaulbot,gunulgrlgtksz
muvzrlx,gfkzugoks otgrlnurxmgvxvrlabgbmugavfugpvsobgrlgmuzgikfwvlrklgbmvl
vgWkzbrvgqkso g k;--[Bmugimvabug vsxmbuzgkpgIvbkgkpgSbrivj]--vl gful
bmuzugvzugqmkgqroogikl uflgkbmuzagbkg uvbmgpkzgizrfuagbmvbgbmut
bmufauonuag kglkbgzuwsbugakgfsimgvagpvsobajggRgmvnu,grlgftgtksbm,gauulgv
fvlgkpgxkk gzvlcgqrbmgklugmvl gwzuaulbgbkgbmugwukwougnuzauagbmvbguhiuoou 
.kbmgrlgqrbgvl g u.vsimuzt,gvl gqrbmgbmugkbmuz,gvbgbmugavfugbrfu,gbmu
fkabgzrwugvl gwsxlvirksagbmukokxrivogzupkzfvbrklgbmvbgbmugqkzo gmvag.uul
bzuvbu gqrbmvogbmuaugfvltgtuvzajggVl gakgfulgwzkiuu ;gqugoubgbmugovqagvl 
wzuiuwbagpkookqgbmurzgqvt;gkszauonuagcuuwgvlkbmuzgikszau,glkbgklotgpzkf
 u.vsimuztgkpgfvlluza,g.sbgkpbbrfuag.tgys xfulbgvl giklbzvztgkwrlrkljgg k
.sbgmuvzgvgwmrokakwmrivogouibszu;gbmugrlnulbrkl,guokesuliu,gwuzbrlulit
rffu rvbuotgabzrcugswklgtkszgfrl gvl gfknugtks;gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvb
bksimuagkzgabrlxagtkszgiklairuliu;g‘braglkbgbkgbmragbmutgv  zuaa
bmufauonuajggRaglkbgbmragbzsu?ggRbgfv ugVzrabkgavt,gbmvbglurbmuzgvg.vbm
lkzgvgouibszug r gvsxmbgslouaagrbgaikszu gvl gfv ugfulgiouvljggKlugfvt
abkwgvbgbmugacrl;g.sbgrbgragvpbuzgbmugfvzzkqgragwricu gksbgva,gvpbuzgqu
mvnugaqvookqu gxkk gqrlugksbgkpgvgprlugisw,gquguhvfrlugbmug uarxlagvl 
qkzcfvlamrwjggRlgvoogbmugikszbagkpgvlirulbgwmrokakwmt,gbmragragbkg.u
pksl ,gbmvbgbmugavfugbuvimuzgws.oramuagzsouagkpgbufwuzvliugvl gvbgbmu
avfugbrfugouaaklagrlgoknugvl gqvlbklluaa;gHulkwmkl,grlgbmugnuztg.kakfgkp
Iorlrva,gqzkbugvxvrlabgbmugVzrabrwwrignrzbsujgg‘Braglkbgbmvbgbmuzugragvlt
frzvisoksagiklnuzarklgrlgrbgbmvbgfvcuagbmufgbmsagqvnuzrlx;g‘bragbmvb
Akoklgzuwzuaulbagmrfauop,gakfubrfuagrlgmragkqlgwuzakl,gvl gakfubrfuagrl
bmvbgkpgvgouxraovbkz;gklugqmrougmugawuvcagpkzgbmugizkq ,gvl gvlkbmuzgpkz
mrfauop;gbvcrlxgbmugpzuugvl glvbszvogzsouagpkzgmragkqlgamvzu,gpuuorlx
vaaszu gkpgvgprzfgvl gulbrzugmuvobm:

gggggggggg“Iszulbszg s.rrgfu riragfvykzr.sagvuxzrj”

gggggggggg[“ uawuzvbugfvov ruagzuesrzugbmug.uabg kibkzaj”
ggggggggggg--Ysnulvo,ghrrrjg124j]

Vlbrabmuluagvookqagvgavxugbkgoknu,gvl gbkg kgqmvbunuzgmugbmrlca
iklnulrulb,gqrbmksbgzuxvz gbkgbmugovqa,gpkzvafsimgvagmugrag.ubbuzgv nrau 
bmvlgbmut,gvl gmvagvgxzuvbuzgclkqou xugkpgnrzbsujggMrag rairwoug rkxulua
avr ,gbmvbg“fulgbkgwuzbsz.vbrklagquzugbkgkwwkaugzuvakl:gbkgpkzbslu,
ikszvxu:gbkgbmugovqa,glvbszuj”ggPkzgbul uzgabkfvima,giklabzvrlu gvl 
vzbrprirvogzuirwuagfsabg.ugwzuaizr.u :gxkk gvl gabzklxgabkfvimagauznu
bmufauonuagarfwotgqrbmgbmugwzuaizrwbrklagkpgbmurzgkqlglvbszvogvwwubrbu;
vpbuzgbmragfvlluzg kgkszgwmtarirvlagwzkiuu ,gqmkguvbgfuoklagvl g zrlc
riu gqrlua,gqmroabgbmutgiklprlugbmurzgwvbrulbagbkgatzswagvl gakwaj
“Rgclkqglkb,”gavr gbmugikszbudvlgOvra,g“qmvbgbmutgfvtgbvocgkpg.kkca,
qra kf,gvl gwmrokakwmt;g.sbgbmuaugfulgclkicgvagkpbulgvbgftg kkzgvagvlt
kbmuzaj”ggVbgbmugavfugzvbugbmvbgkszgoriuliugivzzruagsag.utkl gqmvbgra
ovqpsogvl gvookqu ,gfulgmvnu,gkpbulg.utkl gslrnuzavogzuvakl,gabzubimu 
bmugwzuiuwbagvl gzsouagkpgkszgorpu:

gggggggggg“Lufkgavbragizu rbgbvlbsfg uorlesuzu,gesvlbsf
ggggggggggWuzfrbbvaj”

ggggg[“Lkgklugbmrlcagmugmvag klugroogbkgbmugpsooguhbulbgkpgqmvbgmugfvtj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,ghrnjg233j]

Rbgquzugbkg.ugqramu gbmvbgbmuzugqvagfkzugwzkwkzbrklg.ubqrhbgbmugikffvl 
vl gbmugk.u ruliu;gvl gbmugfvzcgauufagbkg.ugslysabgbkgqmrimgklugivllkb
vbbvrljggBmuzugraglkgakgxkk gfvl,gqmkgakgaesvzuagvoogmragbmksxmbagvl 
vibrklagbkgbmugovqa,gbmvbgmugraglkbgpvsobtgulksxmgbkg uauznugmvlxrlxgbul
brfuagrlgmragorpu;gvl gmugfvtgquoog.ugasimgvgklu,gvagrbgquzugxzuvb
rlysabriugvl gxzuvbgmvzfgbkgwslramgvl gzsrl:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Kou,gesr gv gbu
ggggggggggggggg ugisbugesr gpvirvbgroougnuogroougasv?”

ggggg[“Kosa,gqmvbgragrbgbkgbmuugqmvbgmugkzgamug kuagqrbmgbmurzgacrl?”
gggggg--Fvzbrvo,gnrrjg9,gRj]

vl gasimgvlgklugbmuzugfvtg.u,gqmkgmvaglkgqvtgkppul u gbmugovqa,gqmk,
lunuzbmuouaa,gqkso glkbg uauznugbmugimvzvibuzgkpgvgnrzbsksagfvl,gvl gqmkf
wmrokakwmtgqkso gysabotgikl uflgbkg.ugqmrwwu ;gakgsluesvogvl gwuzwouhu 
ragbmragzuovbrkljggQugvzugakgpvzgpzkfg.urlxgxkk gful,gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
ovqagkpgXk ,gbmvbgqugivllkbg.ugakgviikz rlxgbkgkszgkqlgmsfvlgqra kfglunuz
tubgvzzrnu gvbgbmug sbruagrbgmv grbauopgwzuaizr.u ;gvl gikso grbgvzzrnu
bmuzu,grbgqkso gabroogwzuaizr.ugbkgrbauopgkbmuzag.utkl ,gbkgqmrimgrb
qkso gunuzgvawrzugvl gwzubul ;gakgxzuvbgvlguluftgbkgiklarabulitgragksz
msfvlgikl rbrkljggFvlgulykrlagmrfauopgbkg.ugluiuaavzrotgrlgpvsob:gmugra
lkbgnuztg raizuubgbkgisbgksbgmragkqlg sbtg.tgbmugfuvaszugkpgvlkbmuzg.urlx
bmvlgmragkqljggBkgqmkfg kuagmugwzuaizr.ugbmvbgqmrimgmug kuaglkbguhwuib
vltgklugamkso gwuzpkzf?gragmugslysabgrlglkbg krlxgqmvbgrbgragrfwkaar.ou
pkzgmrfgbkg k?ggBmugovqagqmrimgikl uflgsaglkbgbkg.ugv.ou,gikl uflgsagpkz
lkbg.urlxgv.ouj

Vbgbmugqkzab,gbmrag rppkzfgor.uzbtgkpgwzuaulbrlxgkszauonuagbqkgaunuzvo
qvta,gbmugvibrklagvpbuzgklugfvlluzgvl gbmugzuvaklrlxgvpbuzgvlkbmuz,gfvt
.ugvookqu gbkgbmkaugqmkgklotgawuvcgkpgbmrlxa;g.sbgrbgivllkbg.ugvookqu gbk
bmkaugqmkgawuvcgkpgbmufauonua,gvagRg k:gRgfsabgfvzimgftgwulgvagRg kgft
puubjggIkffklgorpugksxmbgbkgmvnugzuovbrklgbkgbmugkbmuzgornua:gbmugnrzbsu
kpgIvbkgqvagnrxkzksag.utkl gbmugzuvaklgkpgbmugvxugmugornu grl;gvl gpkzgv
fvlgqmkgfv ugrbgmrag.sarluaagbkgxknuzlgkbmuza,gvgfvlg u rivbu gbkgbmu
ws.origauznriu,grbgfrxmbg.ugivoou gvgysabriu,grpglkbgslysab,gvbgouvab
nvrlgvl gksbgkpgauvakljggUnulgftgkqlgfvlluza,gqmrimg rppuzglkbgv.knugvl
rlimgpzkfgbmkaugiszzulbgvfklxabgsa,gzul uzgfu,glunuzbmuouaa,gvgorbbou
zksxmgvl gslakirv.ougvbgftgvxujggRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgrbg.ugqrbmksbgzuvakl
bmvbgRgvfg raxsabu gqrbmgbmugqkzo gRgpzuesulb;g.sbgRgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvb
rbgqkso g.ugqrbmksbgzuvakl,gamkso gRgikfwovrlgkpgrbag.urlxg raxsabu gqrbm
fu,gauurlxgRgvfgakgqrbmgrbjggBmugnrzbsugbmvbgragvaarxlu gbkgbmugvppvrza
kpgbmugqkzo gragvgnrzbsugkpgfvltgqvnrlxa,gikzluza,gvl guo.kqa,gbkgykrl
vl gv vwbgrbauopgbkgmsfvlgpzvrobt,gfrhu gvl gvzbrprirvo,glkbgabzvrxmb,
iouvz,giklabvlb,glkzgwszuotgrllkiulbjggKszgvllvoagbkgbmragnuztg vt
zuwzkvimgklugkpgkszgcrlxagpkzgasppuzrlxgmrfauopgbkkgarfwotgbkg.ugivzzru 
vqvtg.tgbmugiklairulbrksagwuzasvarklagkpgmragiklpuaakz:gvppvrzagkpgabvbu
mvnug.ko uzgwzuiuwba;

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Uhuvbgvsov,
gggggggggggggggggggggggggEsrgnsobguaaugwrsaj”

gggggggggg[“Oubgmrfgqmkgqroog.ugwrksagzubrzugpzkfgbmugikszbj”
ggggggggggg--Osivl,gnrrrjg493]

Rgpkzfuzotgbzru gbkgufwoktgrlgbmugauznriugkpgws.origvppvrzagkwrlrklagvl 
zsouagkpgornrlx,gvagzksxm,gluq,gslwkoramu gkzgslwkoosbu ,gvagbmutgquzu
urbmuzg.kzlgqrbmgfu,gkzg.zksxmbgvqvtgpzkfgftgu sivbrkl,gvl gqmuzuqrbmgR
auznugftgkqlgbszl,grpglkbgakgikffk rksaot,gvbgouvabgauiszuot,grlgftgkql
wvzbrisovzgikliuzla:gvgaimkovabrigvl glknriugnrzbsu;g.sbgRgmvnugpksl 
bmufgslvwbgvl g vlxuzksajggMugqmkgxkuagrlbkgvgizkq gfsabglkqgxkgklugqvt
vl gbmulgvlkbmuz,gcuuwgmraguo.kqagiokau,gzubrzugkzgv nvliu,gvl gesrbgbmu
abzvrxmbgqvt,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgmugulikslbuza;gvl gfsabgornuglkbgakgfsim
viikz rlxgbkgmragkqlgfubmk gvagbkgbmvbgkpgkbmuza;glkbgviikz rlxgbkgqmvb
mugwzkwkauagbkgmrfauop,g.sbgviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgragwzkwkau gbkgmrf,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugbrfu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugful,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugkiivarklaj
Wovbkgavta,gbmvbgqmkunuzguaivwuagpzkfgbmugqkzo ’agmvl orlxgqrbmgiouvl
.zuuimua,guaivwuag.tgfrzviou:gvl gavtagqrbmvo,gbmvbgqmulgmugvwwkrlbagmra
wmrokakwmuzgbmugmuv gkpgvgxknuzlfulb,gmug kuaglkbgfuvlgvgikzzswbgklugorcu
bmvbgkpgVbmula,gvl gfsimgouaagasimgvgklugvagbmragkpgksza,gqmuzurlgqra kf
rbauopgqkso g.ugbkgauucjggVgxkk gmuz.,gbzvlawovlbu grlbkgvgakrogiklbzvzt
bkgrbagkqlglvbszu,gfsimgakkluzgiklpkzfagrbauopgbkgbmugakrogbmvlgrb
zupkzfagbmugakrogbkgrbjggRgpksl gbmvbgrpgRgmv gqmkootgbkgvwwotgftauopgbk
asimgufwoktfulba,grbgqkso gzuesrzugvgxzuvbg uvogkpgimvlxugvl gluq
fk uoorlxgrlgfug.upkzugRgikso g.ugvltgqvtgprbgpkzgrb:gVl gbmksxmgRgikso 
akgpvzgwzunvrogswklgftauopg(vl gqmtgfrxmbgRglkbgqrbmgbrfugvl g rorxuliu
qkzcgasimgvgpuvb),gRgqkso glkbg kgrbjggBmugorbbougbzrvogRgmvnugmv gkp
ws.origufwoktfulbgmvag.uulgakgfsimg raxsabgbkgfu;gRgpuuogvbgbrfua
bufwbvbrklagbkqvz gvf.rbrklgzrarlxgrlgftgakso,g.sbgRgk.abrlvbuotgkwwkau
bmuf:

ggggggggggggggg“Vbgbs,gIvbsoou,gk.abrlvbsagk. szvj”

ggggg[“.sbgbmks,gIvbsoosa,g.ugk.abrlvbuotgprzfj”--Ivbsoosa,gnrrrjg19j]

Rgvfgauo kfgivoou gbkgrb,gvl gvagauo kfgkppuzgftauopgslivoou ;gor.uzbt
vl govdrluaa,gbmugesvorbruagfkabgwzu kfrlvlbgrlgfu,gvzugesvorbrua
 rvfubzrivootgiklbzvztgbkgbmvbgbzv ujggQugivllkbgquoog rabrlxsramgbmu
pvisobruagkpgful;gbmutgmvnug rnrarklagvl gorfrbagmvz gvl g uorivbugbk
imkkau;gbkgiklios ugpzkfgbmug raizuubgikl sibgkpgvgwzrnvbugorpugv
ivwvirbtgpkzgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgws.origvppvrzagragbkgiklios ugroo;gvgfvl
fvtgxknuzlgmrfauopgquoogqmkgivllkbgxknuzlgkbmuzagak,gvl gikfwkaugUaavta
qmkgikso glkbgqkzcguppuiba:gfulgbmuzugfvtg.ugqmkgivlgkz uzgvgaruxugquoo,
qmkgqkso groogfvzamvogvg.vbbou;gqmkgivlgawuvcgquoogrlgwzrnvbu,gqmkgqkso 
roogmvzvlxsugvgwukwougkzgvgwzrliu;glvt,g‘bragwuzv nulbszugzvbmuzgv
buabrfkltgrlgmrfgqmkgivlg kgbmugklugbmvbgmugivllkbg kgbmugkbmuz,gbmvl
kbmuzqraujggRgprl gbmvbguounvbu gaksoagvzuglkbgfsimgfkzugwzkwuzgpkzgfuvl
bmrlxagbmvlgfuvlgaksoagvzugpkzgmrxmgkluajggIkso grbg.ugrfvxrlu gbmvb
Akizvbuagamkso gmvnugv frlrabuzu gkiivarklgkpgovsxmbuz,gvbgbmuguhwulaugkp
mragkqlgzuwsbvbrkl,gbkgbmugVbmulrvlagpkz:gmvnrlxglunuzg.uulgv.ougbkgasf
swgbmugnkbuagkpgmragbzr.u,gbkg uornuzgrbgbkgbmugiksliro?ggBzsot,gbmu
nuluzvbrklgRgmvnugpkzgbmugwuzpuibrklagkpgbmragxzuvbgfvlg uauznuagbmvbgmra
pkzbslugamkso gpszlram,gpkzgbmuguhisaugkpgftgwzrlirwvogrfwuzpuibrkla,gak
fvxlrpriulbgvlguhvfwoujggKszgaspprirulitgragisbgksbgrlbkgafvoogwvziuoa;
frlugmvaglkgovbrbs u,gvl gragvoakgnuztgiklbufwbr.ougrlglsf.uzj
Avbszlrlsa,gbkgbmkaugqmkgmv giklpuzzu gswklgmrfgbmugikffvl grlgimrup:
“Ikfwvlrkla,”gavr gmu,g“tksgmvnugokabgvgxkk givwbvrl,gbkgfvcugkpgmrfgv
.v gxuluzvoj”

Qmkunuzg.kvaba,grlgakgaricgvgbrfugvagbmra,gbkgufwoktgvgbzsugvl garliuzu
nrzbsugrlgbmugqkzo ’agauznriu,gurbmuzgclkqaglkbgqmvbgrbgra,gkwrlrkla
xzkqrlxgikzzswbgqrbmgfvlluzag(vl ,grlgbzsbm,gbkgmuvzgbmufg uaizr.ugrb,gbk
muvzgbmugfkabgkpgbmufgxokzrptgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzg uwkzbfulba,gvl govt
 kqlgbmurzgzsoua;grlabuv gkpgwvrlbrlxgnrzbsu,gbmutgwvrlbgwszugnriugvl 
rlysabriu,gvl gakgzuwzuaulbgrbgpvoaugrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgwzrliua);gkzgrp
mug kuagclkqgrb,g.kvabagslysabotgvl goubgmrfgavtgqmvbgmugqroo,g kuagv
bmksavl gbmrlxagkpgqmrimgmragkqlgiklairuliugfsabgluiuaavzrotgviisaugmrfj
Rgamkso gqroorlxotgbvcugAuluiv’agqkz gklgbmuguhwuzruliugmugfv ugswklgbmu
orcugkiivarkl,gwzknr u gmugqkso g uvogarliuzuotgqrbmgfujggBmugfkab
mklkszv.ougfvzcgkpgxkk luaagrlgasimgvgluiuaarbtgragpzuuotgbkgiklpuaag.kbm
klu’agkqlgpvsobagvl gbmkaugkpgkbmuza;gqrbmgbmugwkquzgkpgrbagnrzbsugbk
abvtgklu’agrliorlvbrklgbkqvz agunro;gslqroorlxotgbkgpkookqgbmra
wzkwularkl;gbkgmkwug.ubbuz,gbkg uarzug.ubbuzjggRgwuziurnugbmvbgrlgbmuau
 rnrarklagqmuzurlgqugvzugrlnkonu grlgPzvliu,gunuztgklugov.kszagbkg upul 
mragivsau;g.sbgunulgbmugnuztg.uabgkpgbmufgqrbmg raarfsovbrklgvl 
 raxsrau:gmugqmkgqkso gqzrbugzksl otgkpgbmugbzsugabvbugkpgbmugesvzzuo,
qkso gqzrbugzvamotgvl gqzklxotjggBmugfkabgysabgwvzbtgragvbg.uabg.sbgv
fuf.uzgkpgvg uivtu gvl gqkzf-uvbulg.k t;g.sbgkpgasimgvg.k t,gbmugfuf.uz
bmvbgragouvabgvppuibu givooagrbauopgaksl ,gvl gqrbmgxkk gzuvakl,
pkzvafsimgvagkszgesvorbruagmvnuglkgbrboug.sbgrlgikfwvzrakl;girnro
rllkiuliugragfuvaszu gviikz rlxgbkgbrfuagvl gwoviuajggRfvxrlugbmragrl
Hulkwmkl,gzuovbu gvagvgprlugikfful vbrklgkpgVxuarovsa:gbmvb,g.urlx
ulbzuvbu g.tgvglurxm.kszrlxgwzrliugqrbmgqmkfgmugmv gpkzfuzotgmv gqvz,gbk
wuzfrbgmrfgbkgwvaagbmzksxmgmragikslbzt,gmugxzvlbu gmragzuesuab,gxrnrlx
mrfgpzuugwvaavxugbmzksxmgWuokwklluasa;gvl glkbgklotg r glkbgrfwzraklgkz
wkraklgmrf,g.urlxgvbgmragfuzit,g.sbgikszbuksaotgzuiurnu gmrfgviikz rlxgbk
bmugk.orxvbrklgkpgmragwzkfrau,gqrbmksbg krlxgmrfgbmugouvabgrlysztgkz
kppuliujggBkgasimgr uvagvagbmurzagbmragquzugvlgvibgkpglkguawuirvoglkbu;
uoauqmuzugvl grlgvlkbmuzgvxu,gbmugpzvlcluaagvl gslvlrfrbtgkpgasimgvl
vibrklgqkso g.ugbmksxmbgqkl uzpso;gkszgfklcutramgivwuba

ggggg[Ivwuba,gakgivoou gpzkfgbmurzgamkzbgivwua,gquzugbmugabs ulbagkp
gggggFklbvrxlugIkoouxugvbgWvzra,gvl gquzugmuo grlgxzuvbgiklbufwbj]

qkso gmvnugovsxmu gvbgrb,gakgorbboug kuagbmugAwvzbvlgrllkiuliugzuauf.ou
bmvbgkpgPzvliujggQugvzuglkbgqrbmksbgnrzbsksagful,g.sbg‘bragviikz rlxgbk
kszglkbrklagkpgnrzbsujggQmkunuzgmvagmragfvlluzaguabv.oramu grlgzuxsovzrbt
v.knugbmugabvl vz gkpgbmugvxugmugornuagrl,goubgmrfgurbmuzgqzuabgkzg.oslb
mragzsoua,gkz,gqmrimgRgqkso gzvbmuzgv nraugmrfgbk,goubgmrfgzubrzu,gvl 
lkbgfu  ougqrbmgsagvbgvoojggQmvbgqroogmugxubg.tgrb?

gggggggggggggg“Uxzuxrsfgavlibsfesugnrzsfgargiuzlk,g.rfuf.zr
gggggggggggggggMkigfklabzsfgwsuzk,gubgfrzvlbrgyvfgas.gvzvbzk
gggggggggggggggWrair.sagrlnulbra,gubgpkubvugikfwvzkgfsovuj”

ggggg[“RpgRgauugvlguhufwovztgvl gxkk gfvl,gRgorculgrbgbkgvgbqk-muv u 
ggggg.kt,gkzgvgpramgbszlu gswg.tgbmugwoksxm,gkzgvgbuufrlxgfsouj”
gggggg--Ysnulvo,ghrrrjg64j]

Klugfvtgzuxzubg.ubbuzgbrfua,g.sbgivllkbgpotgpzkfgbmugwzuaulb;gqugfvtgqram
pkzgkbmuzgfvxrabzvbua,g.sbgqugfsab,glkbqrbmabvl rlx,gk.utgbmkaugqugmvnu;
vl ,gwuzv nulbszu,g‘bragfkzugovs v.ougbkgk.utgbmug.v gbmvlgbmugxkk jggAk
oklxgvagbmugrfvxugkpgbmugvlirulbgvl gzuiurnu govqagkpgbmragfklvzimtgamvoo
amrlugrlgvltgikzluzgkpgbmugcrlx kf,gbmuzugqroogRg.ujggRpgbmut
slpkzbslvbuotgmvwwulgbkgbmqvzbgvl giklbzv ribgklugvlkbmuz,gakgvagbk
wzk siugbqkgwvzba,gkpg ks.bpsogvl g rpprisobgimkriu,gRgqroogqroorlxot
imkkaugbkgqrbm zvqgvl guaivwugbmugbufwuab;grlgbmugfuvlbrfuglvbszugkzgbmu
mvdvz agkpgqvzgfvtgoul gfugvgmuowrlxgmvl jgg.ubqrhbgIvuavzgvl gWkfwut,
Rgamkso gpzvlcotgmvnug uiovzu gftauop;g.sb,gvagvfklxabgbmugbmzuugzk..uza
qmkgivfugvpbuz,--[Kibvnrsa,gFvzcgVlbklt,gvl gOuwr saj]--vgfvlgfsabgmvnu
.uulgluiuaarbvbu gurbmuzgbkgmr ugmrfauop,gkzgmvnugxklugvoklxgqrbmgbmu
iszzulbgkpgbmugbrfu,gqmrimgRgbmrlcgklugfvtgpvrzotg kgqmulgzuvaklglk
oklxuzgxsr ua:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Eskg rnuzasagv.ra?”

gggggggggg[“Qmrbmuzg kabgbmksgzslgqvl uzrlx?”--VUlur ,gnjg166j]

Bmragfu outgragvgorbbougpzkfgftgbmufu;gRgxkgksbgkpgftgqvt;g.sbg‘bra
zvbmuzg.tgoriuliugbmvlgknuzarxmb;gftgpvliruagpkookqgklugvlkbmuz,g.sb
akfubrfuagvbgvgxzuvbg rabvliu,gvl gokkcgbkqvz agklugvlkbmuz,g.sbg‘bra
qrbmgvlgk.oresugxovliujggRgmvnugzuv gvg rvokxsugkpgWovbk,--[Bmu
Wmvu zsaj]--kpgbmugorcugfkboutgvl gpvlbvabrigikfwkarbrkl,gbmug.uxrllrlx
v.ksbgoknu,gvl gvoogbmugzuabgbkgbmugul gv.ksbgzmubkzri;gbmutgpuvzglkb
bmuaugnvzrvbrkla,gvl gmvnugvgfvznuooksagxzviugrlgoubbrlxgbmufauonuag.u
ivzzru gvqvtgvbgbmugwouvaszugkpgbmugqrl ,gkzgvbgouvabgbkgauufgvagrpgbmut
quzujggBmugbrbouagkpgftgimvwbuzag kglkbgvoqvtagikfwzumul gbmugqmkou
fvbbuz;gbmutgkpbulg ulkbugrbg.tgakfugfvzcgklot,gvagbmuaugkbmuza,gVl zrv,
Uslsimsa;gkzgbmuau,gAtoov,gIriuzk,gBktesvbsajggRgoknugvgwkubrigwzkxzuaa,
.tgouvwagvl gacrwa;g‘bragvlgvzb,gvagWovbkgavta,gorxmb,glrf.ou,g ufklrvij
BmuzugvzugwruiuagrlgWosbvzimgqmuzugmugpkzxubagmragbmufu;gqmuzugbmu
wzkwkarbrklgkpgmragvzxsfulbgragklotgpksl g.tgrlir uliu,gabsppu gvl gmvop
abrpou grlgpkzurxlgfvbbuzjggK.auznugmragpkkbabuwagrlgbmug vufklgkp
AkizvbuajggKgXk !ggmkqg.uvsbrpsogvzugbmuaugpzkoriakfugavoorua,gbmkau
nvzrvbrklagvl g rxzuaarkla,gvl gvoogbmugfkzugqmulgbmutgauufgfkab
pkzbsrbksagvl givzuouaajgg‘Bragbmugrl rorxulbgzuv uzgqmkgokauagft
as.yuib,gvl glkbgR;gbmuzugqroogvoqvtag.ugpksl gakfugqkz gkzgkbmuzgrlgv
ikzluzgbmvbgragbkgbmugwszwkau,gbmksxmgrbgorugnuztgiokaujggRgzvf.ou
rl raizuubotgvl gbsfsobsksaot;gftgabtougvl gftgqrbgqvl uzgvbgbmugavfu
zvbujggMugfsabgpkkogrbgvgorbbougqmkgqkso glkbg.ug uufu gqmkootgvgpkko,
avtg.kbmgbmugwzuiuwba,gvl ,gabroogfkzu,gbmuguhvfwouagkpgkszgfvabuzajggV
bmksavl gwkubagpovxgvl govlxsramgvpbuzgvgwzkavrigfvlluz;g.sbgbmug.uabgko 
wzkaug(vl gRgabzuqgrbgmuzugswgvl g kqlgrl rppuzulbotgpkzgnuzau)gamrlua
bmzksxmksbgqrbmgbmugosabzu,gnrxksz,gvl g.ko luaagkpgwkubzt,gvl glkb
qrbmksbgakfugvrzgkpgrbagpsztjggVl giuzbvrlotgwzkaugksxmbgbkgmvnugbmu
wzu-ufrluliugrlgawuvcrlxjggBmugwkub,gavtagWovbk,gauvbu gswklgbmugfsaua
bzrwk ,gwkszagksbgqrbmgpsztgqmvbunuzgikfuagrlbkgmragfksbm,gorcugbmugwrwu
kpgvgpkslbvrl,gqrbmksbgiklar uzrlxgvl gqurxmrlxgrb;gvl gbmrlxaguaivwugmrf
kpgnvzrksagikoksza,gkpgiklbzvztgas.abvliu,gvl gqrbmgvlgrzzuxsovzgbkzzulbj
Wovbkgmrfauopgragbmzksxmksbgwkubrivo;gvl gbmugko gbmukokxt,gvagbmu
ouvzlu gbuoogsa,gragvoogwkubzt;gvl gbmugprzabgwmrokakwmtgragbmugkzrxrlvo
ovlxsvxugkpgbmugxk ajggRgqkso gmvnugftgfvbbuzg rabrlxsramgrbauop;grb
aspprirulbotgamkqagqmuzugrbgimvlxua,gqmuzugrbgiklios ua,gqmuzugrbg.uxrla,
vl gqmuzugrbgzuykrla,gqrbmksbgrlbuzovirlxgrbgqrbmgqkz agkpgiklluibrkl
rlbzk siu gpkzgbmugzuorupgkpgquvcgkzgluxorxulbguvza,gvl gqrbmksb
uhwovrlrlxgftauopjggQmkgragmugbmvbgmv glkbgzvbmuzglkbg.ugzuv gvbgvoogbmvl
vpbuzgvg zkqatgkzgiszakztgfvlluz?

ggggggggggggg“Lrmroguabgbvfgsbrou,gesk grlbzvlarbsgwzkarbj”

gggggggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragakgsaupsogvagbmvbgqmrimgragiszakzrotgakj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g2j]

Rpgbkgbvcug.kkcagrlgmvl gquzugbkgouvzlgbmuf:gbkgokkcgswklgbmufgquzugbk
iklar uzgbmuf:gvl gbkgzslgbmuaugaorxmbotgknuzgquzugbkgxzvawgbmuf,gRgquzu
bmulgbkg.ovfugbkgfvcugftauopgksbgakgrxlkzvlbgvagRgavtgRgvfjggAuurlxgR
ivllkbgprhgbmugvbbulbrklgkpgftgzuv uzg.tgbmugqurxmbgkpgqmvbgRgqzrbu,
‘fvlikgfvou’,grpgRgamkso gimvliugbkg kgrbg.tgftgrlbzriviruajgg“Lvt,g.sb
mugqroogvpbuzqvz agzuwulbgbmvbgmugunuzgwuzwouhu gmrfauopgv.ksbgrbj”
g‘Bragnuztgbzsu,g.sbgmugqroogtubg.ugbmuzugwuzwouhu jggVl ,g.uar ua,gbmuzu
vzugakfugmsfkszagrlgqmrimgikfwzumularklgwzk siuag ra vrl;gqmkgqroogbmrlc
.ubbuzgkpgfugpkzglkbgsl uzabvl rlxgqmvbgRgavt,gvl gqroogiklios ugbmu
 uwbmgkpgftgaulaug.tgrbagk.aiszrbt;gqmrim,gbkgawuvcgrlgxkk gakkbm,gR
fkzbvootgmvbu,gvl gqkso gvnkr grbgrpgRgikso jggVzrabkboug.kvabagakfuqmuzu
rlgmragqzrbrlxagbmvbgmugvppuibu grb:gvgnrirksagvppuibvbrkljggBmugpzuesulb
.zuvcagrlbkgimvwbuzagbmvbgRgfv ugftgfubmk grlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgftg.kkc,
mvnrlxgarliugauufu gbkgfugbkg raakonugbmugvbbulbrklg.upkzugrbgqvagzvrau ,
vagfvcrlxgrbg ra vrlgbkgaubbougrbauopgbkgakgorbbou,gR,gswklgbmvbgviikslb,
mvnugfv ugbmufgoklxuz,gasimgvagzuesrzugwzkwkarbrklgvl gvaarxlu gouraszuj
Rlgasimgvlgufwoktfulb,gbkgqmkfgtksgqrooglkbgxrnugvlgmkszgtksgxrnu
lkbmrlx;gvl gtksg kglkbmrlxgpkzgmrfgpkzgqmkfgtksgklotg kgrbgqmroabgtks
vzug krlxgakfubmrlxguoaujggBkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmvbgRgmvnu,
wuzv nulbszu,gakfugwvzbrisovzgk.orxvbrklgbkgawuvcgklotg.tgmvonua,gbk
awuvcgiklpsau otgvl g raikz vlbotjggRgvfgbmuzupkzugvlxztgvbgbmra
bzks.ou-puvabgzuvakl,gvl grbaguhbzvnvxvlbgwzkyuibagbmvbgqkzztgklu’agorpu,
vl grbagkwrlrkla,gakgprlugvl gas.bou,gbmksxmgbmutg.ugvoogbzsu,gRgbmrlc
bkkg uvzg.ksxmbgvl gbkkgrliklnulrulbjggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,gRgfvcugrbgft
.sarluaagbkg.zrlxgnvlrbtgrbauopgrlgzuwsbu,gvl gpkootgbkk,grpgrbgwzk siu
fugvltgwouvaszu;gvl goubgftauopgpkookqgftgkqlglvbszvogrliorlvbrkla,
qrbmksbgivzztrlxgbkkgabzribgvgmvl gswklgbmufj

Rgmvnugauulguoauqmuzugmksauagrlgzsrla,gvl gabvbsuag.kbmgkpgxk agvl gful:
bmuaugvzugfulgabroojgg‘Bragvoogbzsu;gvl gtub,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gRgivllkbgak
kpbulgzunrarbgbmugbkf.gkpgbmvbgakgxzuvbgvl gakgwsraavlbgirbt,--[Zkfu]--
bmvbgRg kglkbgv frzugvl gzunuzuliugrbjggBmugivzugkpgbmug uv gra
zuikfful u gbkgsa;glkq,gRgmvnug.uulg.zu gswgpzkfgftgrlpvlitgqrbmgbmuau
 uv ;gRgmv gclkqou xugkpgbmugvppvrzagkpgZkfugoklxg.upkzugRgmv gvltgkp
bmkaugkpgftgkqlgmksau;gRgcluqgbmugIvwrbkogvl grbagwovlg.upkzugRgcluqgbmu
Oksnzu,gvl gbmugBr.uzg.upkzugRgcluqgbmugAurlujggBmugesvorbruagvl 
pkzbsluagkpgOsisoosa,gFubuoosa,gvl gAirwrkgmvnugunuzgzslgfkzugrlgftgmuv 
bmvlgbmkaugkpgvltgkpgftgkqlgikslbzt;gbmutgvzugvoog uv ;gakgragftgpvbmuz
vagv.akosbuotg uv gvagbmut,gvl gragzufknu gvagpvzgpzkfgfugvl gorpugrl
urxmbuulgtuvzagvagbmutgvzugrlgarhbuulgmsl zu :gqmkaugfufkzt,
lunuzbmuouaa,gpzrul amrwgvl gakirubt,gRg kglkbgiuvaugbkguf.zviugvl 
sbroraugqrbmgvgwuzpuibgvl gornuotgslrkljggLvt,gkpgftgkqlgrliorlvbrkl,gR
wvtgfkzugauznriugbkgbmug uv ;gbmutgivlglkgoklxuzgmuowgbmufauonua,gvl 
bmuzupkzu,gfubmrlca,gbmugfkzugzuesrzugftgvaarabvliu:g‘bragbmuzugbmvb
xzvbrbs ugvwwuvzagrlgrbagpsoogosabzujggBmug.uluprbgraglkbgakgxuluzksaot
.uabkqu ,gqmuzugbmuzugragzubzkxzv vbrklgvl gzupouibrkljggVziuarovsa,
xkrlxgbkgnrarbgIbuar.rsa,gqmkgqvagaric,gvl gprl rlxgmrfgrlgvgnuztgwkkz
ikl rbrkl,gnuztgprluotgiklnutu gakfugfklutgsl uzgmragwrookq,gvl ,g.t
ikliuvorlxgrbgpzkfgmrf,gviesrbbu gmrf,gfkzuknuz,gpzkfgbmugviclkqou xfulb
 sugbkgasimgvg.uluprbjggAsimgvagmvnugfuzrbu gpzkfgfugpzrul amrwgvl 
xzvbrbs ugmvnuglunuzgokabgbmuaug.tg.urlxglkgfkzu;gRgmvnug.ubbuzgvl gfkzu
ivzupsootgwvr gbmufgqmulgxklugvl grxlkzvlbgkpgqmvbgRg r ;gRgawuvcgfkab
vppuibrklvbuotgkpgftgpzrul agqmulgbmutgivlglkgoklxuzgclkqgrbjggRgmvnugmv 
vgmsl zu gesvzzuoagrlg upul rlxgWkfwutgvl gpkzgbmugivsaugkpg.zsbsa;gbmra
viesvrlbvliugtubgiklbrlsuag.ubqrhbgsa;gqugmvnuglkgkbmuzgmko gunulgkl
wzuaulbgbmrlxag.sbg.tgpvlitjggPrl rlxgftauopgkpglkgsaugbkgbmragvxu,gR
bmzkqgftauopg.vicgswklgbmvbgkbmuz,gvl gvfgakgulvfkszu gkpgrb,gbmvbgbmu
pzuu,gysab,gvl gpokszramrlxgabvbugkpgbmvbgvlirulbgZkfug(pkzgRglurbmuz
oknugrbgrlgrbag.rzbmglkzgrbagko gvxu)grlbuzuabagvl grfwvaarklvbuagfu;
vl gbmuzupkzugRgivllkbgakgkpbulgzunrarbgbmugarbuagkpgbmurzgabzuubagvl 
mksaua,gvl gbmkaugzsrlagwzkpksl gunulgbkgbmugVlbrwk ua,gbmvbgRgvfglkb
rlbuzuabu grlgbmufjggRagrbg.tglvbszu,gkzgbmzksxmguzzkzgkpgpvlit,gbmvbgbmu
arxmbgkpgwoviuagqmrimgqugclkqgbkgmvnug.uulgpzuesulbu gvl grlmv.rbu g.t
wuzaklagqmkaugfufkzruagvzugzuikfful u grlgabkzt,gfknuagsagrlgakfugakzb
fkzugbmvlgbkgmuvzgvgzuirbvogkpgbmurz--vibagkzgbkgzuv gbmurzgqzrbrlxa?

ggggg“Bvlbvgnragv fklrbrklragrluabgrlgokirajjjjUbgr gesr ufgrlgmvigsz.u
gggggrlprlrbsf;gesvisfesugulrfgrlxzu rfsz,grlgvoresvfgmrabkzrvfgnuabrxrsf
gggggwklrfsaj”

ggggg[“Akgxzuvbgvgwkquzgkpgzufrlraiuliugzuar uagrlgwoviua;gvl gbmvbgbzsot
gggggrlgbmragirbtgrlprlrbu,gpkzgqmrimgqvtgakunuzgqugxk,gqugprl gbmu
gggggbzviuagkpgakfugabkztj”--Iriuzk,g ugPrlj,gnjgR,g2j]

Rbgwouvauagfugbkgiklar uzgbmurzgpviu,g.uvzrlx,gvl gnuabfulba:gRgwzklksliu
bmkaugxzuvbglvfuag.ubqrhbgftgbuubm,gvl gfvcugbmufgzrlxgrlgftguvza:

ggggg“Uxkgrookagnuluzkz,gubgbvlbraglkfrlr.sagaufwuzgvaaszxkj”

ggggg[“Rgzunuzuliugbmuf,gvl gvoqvtagzraugbkgakgxzuvbglvfuaj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g64j]

Kpgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugrlgakfugwvzbgxzuvbgvl gv frzv.ou,gRgv frzugunulgbmu
ikffklgwvzba:gRgikso gqramgbkgauugbmufgrlgpvfrorvzgzuovbrkla,gqvoc,gvl 
aswjggRbgquzugrlxzvbrbs ugbkgiklbuflgbmugzuoriagvl grfvxuagkpgakgfvlt
qkzbmtgvl gnvorvlbgfulgvagRgmvnugauulgornugvl g ru,gvl gqmk,g.tgbmurz
uhvfwou,gxrnugsagakgfvltgxkk grlabzsibrkla,gcluqgqugmkqgbkgpkookqgbmufj

Vl ,gfkzuknuz,gbmragnuztgZkfugbmvbgquglkqgauu,g uauznuagbkg.ug.uoknu ,gak
oklxgvl g.tgakgfvltgbrbouagvooru gbkgkszgizkql;gbmugklotgikffklgvl 
slrnuzavogirbt;gbmugaknuzurxlgfvxrabzvbugbmvbgikffvl agbmuzugraguesvoot
viclkqou xu guoauqmuzug‘bragbmugfubzkwkorbvlgirbtgkpgvoogbmugImzrabrvl
lvbrklagbmugAwvlrvz gvl gPzulimfvlgragbmuzugvbgmkfu:gbkg.ugvgwzrliugkp
bmvbgabvbu,gbmuzugluu aglkgfkzug.sbgbkg.ugkpgImzrabul kfgqmuzuakunuzj
Bmuzugraglkgwoviugswklguvzbmgbmvbgmuvnulgmvaguf.zviu gqrbmgasimgvl
rlposuliugvl giklabvlitgkpgpvnksz;gmuzgnuztgzsrlagvzugxzvl gvl gxokzrksa,

gggggggggggggggg“Ovs vl ragwzubrkarkzgzsrlraj”

gggggggggg[“Fkzugwzuirksagpzkfgmuzgxokzrksagzsrlaj”
ggggggggggg--Ar klrsagVwkoorlvzra,gIvzfj,ghhrrrj;gLvz.v,gnjg62j]

amugtubgrlgmuzgnuztgbkf.gzubvrlagbmugfvzcagvl grfvxuagkpgufwrzu:

gggggggggg“Sbgwvovfgarb,gslkgrlgokikgxvs ulbragkwsaguaauglvbszhj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgrbgfvtg.ugfvlrpuabgbmvbgbmuzugragrlgklugwoviugbmugqkzcgkp
gggggzuykrirlxglvbszuj”--Worlt,gLvbjgMrabj,grrrjg5j]

Akfugqkso g.ovfugvl g.ugvlxztgvbgbmufauonuagbkgwuziurnugbmufauonua
bricou gqrbmgakgnvrlgvgwouvaszugkszgmsfkszagvzuglunuzgbkkgnvrlgbmvbgvzu
wouvavlbgoubgbmufg.ugqmvbgbmutgfvt,grpgbmutgiklabvlbotgiklbulbgvgfvlgkp
ikffklgsl uzabvl rlx,gRgikso glkbgmvnugbmugmuvzbgbkg.ovfugmrfj

Rgvfgnuztgfsimgk.orxu gbkgPkzbslu,grlgbmvb,gbkgbmragnuztgmksz,gamugmva
kppuzu gfuglkgksbzvxug.utkl gqmvbgRgqvagquoogv.ougbkg.uvzjggRagrbglkbgmuz
isabkfgbkgoubgbmkaugornugrlgesrubg.tgqmkfgamugraglkbgrfwkzbslu ?

ggggggggggggggggggg“Esvlbkgesraesugar.rgwosfgluxvnuzrb,
ggggggggggggggggggggVg rragwosfgpuzub:glrogiswrulbrsf
ggggggggggggggggggggLs sagivabzvgwubkgjggjggjggj
ggggggggggggggggggggFsobvgwubulbr.sa
gggggggggggggggggggg uaslbgfsobvj”

ggggg[“Bmugfkzuguvimgfvlg ulruagmrfauop,gbmugfkzugbmugxk agxrnugmrfj
gggggWkkzgvagRgvf,gRgauucgbmugikfwvltgkpgbmkaugqmkgvacglkbmrlx;gbmutgqmk
ggggg uarzugfsimgqroog.ug uprirulbgrlgfsimj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg16,21,42j]

Rpgamugiklbrlsugmuzgpvnksz,gamugqroog rafraagfugnuztgquoogavbrapru :

ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lrmrogaswzv
ggggggggggggggggggggggggg ukagoviuaakj”

ggggg[“Rgbzks.ougbmugxk aglkgpvzbmuzj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjg18,g11j]

.sbg.uqvzugvgamkic:gbmuzugvzugvgbmksavl gqmkgwuzramgrlgbmugwkzbj
RguvarotgikfpkzbgftauopgpkzgqmvbgamvoogmuzugmvwwulgqmulgRgamvoog.ugxklu,
wzuaulbgbmrlxagbzks.ougfugulksxm:

ggggggggggggggggggggggg“Pkzbslvugivubuzvgfvl kj”

gggggggggg[“Rgouvnugbmugzuabgbkgpkzbsluj”--Knr ,gFubvfj,grrjg140j]

.uar ua,gRgmvnuglkbgbmvbgabzklxgk.orxvbrklgbmvbgbmutgavtgbruagfulgbkgbmu
psbszu,g.tgbmugraasugbmvbgasiiuu agbkgbmurzglvfugvl gmklksz;gvl 
wuzv nulbszu,gksxmbgouaagbkgiknubgbmuf,grpgbmutgvzugbkg.ugakgfsim
 uarzu jggRgvfg.sbgbkkgfsimgbru gbkgbmugqkzo ,gvl gbkgbmragorpu,gkp
ftauop:gRgvfgiklbulbgbkg.ugrlgPkzbslu’agwkquzg.tgirzisfabvliuagwzkwuzot
luiuaavztgbkgftg.urlx,gqrbmksbgkbmuzqraugulovzxrlxgmuzgyszra ribrklgknuz
fu;gvl gmvnuglunuzgbmksxmbgbmvbgbkg.ugqrbmksbgimro zulgqvagvg upuibgbmvb
ksxmbgbkgzul uzgorpugouaagikfwoubugkzgouaagiklbulbu :gvgabuzrougnkivbrkl
mvagrbagiklnulruliuagbkkjggImro zulgvzugkpgbmuglsf.uzgkpgbmrlxagbmvbgvzu
lkbgakgfsimgbkg.ug uarzu ,guawuirvootglkqgbmvbgrbgqkso g.ugakgmvz gbk
fvcugbmufgxkk :

gggggg“.klvgyvfgluiglvairgoriub,grbvgikzzswbvg.slbgaufrlv;”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgxkk givlg.ug.kzlglkq,gbmugauu gragakgikzzswbj”
gggggg--Buzbsoorvl,g ugWs rirbvj]

vl gtubgbmutgvzugysabotgbkg.ugovfulbu g.tgasimgvagokaugbmufgqmulgbmut
mvnugbmufj

Mugqmkgoupbgfugftgmksaugrlgimvzxu,gpkzubko gbmvbgRgqvagorcugbkgzsrlgrb,
iklar uzrlxgftgmsfkszgakgorbbougrliorlu gbkgokkcgvpbuzgmksaumko gvppvrzaj
.sbgmugqvagfrabvcul;gpkzgRgvfgrlgbmugavfugikl rbrklglkqgvagqmulgRgprzab
ulbuzu grlbkgrb,gkzgzvbmuzgakfuqmvbg.ubbuz;gvl gtubgqrbmksbgkppriugkzgvlt
woviugkpgwzkprbj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,grpgPkzbslugmvaglunuzg klugfugvltgnrkoulbgkzguhbzvkz rlvzt
rlyszt,glurbmuzgmvagamug klugfugvltgwvzbrisovzgpvnksz;gqmvbunuzgqug uzrnu
pzkfgmuzg.kslbt,gqvagbmuzugv.knugvgmsl zu gtuvzag.upkzugftgbrfu:gRgmvnu,
vagbkgftgkqlgwvzbrisovz,glkguaaulbrvogvl gakor gxkk ,gbmvbgRgabvl 
rl u.bu gpkzgbkgmuzgor.uzvorbtjggAmugmva,grl uu ,g klugfugakfugvrzt
pvnksza,gmklkzvztgvl gbrbsovzgpvnksza,gqrbmksbgas.abvliu,gvl gbmkaugrl
bzsbmgamugmvaglkbgxzvlbu ,g.sbgkppuzu gfu,gqmk,gXk gclkqa,gvfgvoo
fvbuzrvo,gvl gqmkgbvcuglkbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgragzuvo,gvl grl uu gfvaarnugbkk,
pkzgiszzulbgwvt:gvl gqmk,grpgRg szabgiklpuaagakgfsim,gamkso glkbgbmrlc
vnvzriugfsimgouaaguhisav.ougbmvlgvf.rbrkl:glkzgwvrlgouaagbkg.ugvnkr u 
bmvlgamvfu;glkzgmuvobmgouaagbkg.ugiknubu gbmvlgouvzlrlx,gkzgzrimuagbmvl
lk.rorbtj

Vfklxabgbmkaugufwbtgpvnkszagkpgmuza,gbmuzugraglklugbmvbgakgfsimgwouvaua
nvrlgmsfkszglvbszvogbkgftgikslbzt,gvagvlgvsbmulbrig.soogkpgvgZkfvl
.szxuaa-amrw,gbmvbgqvagxzvlbu gfugqmulgRgqvagovabgbmuzu,gxokzrksagrl
auvoagvl gxro u goubbuza,gvl gxzvlbu gqrbmgvoogxzvirksagor.uzvorbtjggVl 
.uivsaug‘bragiksimu grlgvgfrhbgabtou,gfkzugkzgouaagpvnkszv.ou,gvl gbmvbgR
ikso gmvnug.uulgxov gbkgmvnugauulgvgikwtgkpgrbg.upkzugrbgmv gwvaau gbmu
auvoj

.urlxg.upkzug.szxuaagkpglkgirbtgvbgvoo,gRgvfgxov gbkg.ugizuvbu gklugkp
bmugfkabglk.ougbmvbgunuzgqvagkzgunuzgamvoog.ujggRpgkbmuzgfulgqkso 
iklar uzgbmufauonuagvbgbmugzvbugRg k,gbmutgqkso ,gvagRg k,g raiknuz
bmufauonuagbkg.ugpsoogkpgrlvlrbtgvl gpkwwuzt;gbkgzr gftauopgkpgrb,gR
ivllkb,gqrbmksbgfvcrlxgftauopgvqvtjggQugvzugvoogabuuwu grlgrb,gvagquoo
klugvagvlkbmuz;g.sbgbmutgqmkgvzuglkbgvqvzugkl’b,gmvnugakfuqmvbgbmug.ubbuz
.vzxvrl;gvl gtubgRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgbmutgmvnugkzglkj

Bmragkwrlrklgvl gikffklgsavxugbkgk.auznugkbmuzagfkzugbmvlgkszauonuagmva
nuztgfsimgzuorunu gsagbmvbgqvt:g‘bragvgnuztg rawouvarlxgk.yuib:gqugivl
bmuzugauuglkbmrlxg.sbgfrauztgvl gnvlrbt:glvbszu,gbmvbgqugfvtglkbg.u
 uyuibu gqrbmgbmugarxmbgkpgkszgkqlg upkzfrbrua,gmvagqrauotgbmzsabgbmu
vibrklgkpgauurlxgksbqvz jggQugxkgpkzqvz gqrbmgbmugiszzulb,g.sbgbkgbszl
.vicgbkqvz agkszauonuagragvgwvrlpsogfkbrkl;gakgragbmugauvgfknu gvl 
bzks.ou gqmulgbmugqvnuagzsamgvxvrlabgklugvlkbmuzjggK.auznu,gavtagunuzt
klu,gbmugfkbrklagkpgbmugmuvnula,gkpgws.origvppvrza;gk.auznugbmugesvzzuo
kpgasimgvgwuzakl,gbvcuglkbriugkpgasimgvgklu’agwsoau,gkpgasimgvlkbmuz’a
ovabgqroogvl gbuabvfulb;grlgasf,g.ugvoqvtagokkcrlxgmrxmgkzgokq,gklgklu
ar u,g.upkzugkzg.umrl gtksjggRbgqvagvgwvzv khrivogikffvl gvlirulbotgxrnul
sag.tgbmvbgxk gkpg uowmka:g“Okkcgrlbkgtkszauop;g raiknuzgtkszauop;gcuuw
iokaugbkgtkszauop;givoog.vicgtkszgfrl gvl gqroo,gbmvbguoauqmuzugiklasfu
bmufauonuagrlbkgtkszauop;gtksgzslgksb,gtksgawroogtkszauop;givzztgvgfkzu
abuv tgmvl :gfulg.ubzvtgtks,gfulgawroogtks,gfulgabuvogtksgpzkfgtkszauopj
 kabgbmksglkbgauugbmvbgbmragqkzo gqugornugrlgcuuwagvoogrbagarxmbgiklprlu 
qrbmrl,gvl grbagutuagkwulgbkgiklbufwovbugrbauop?gg‘Bragvoqvtagnvlrbtgpkz
bmuu,g.kbmgqrbmrlgvl gqrbmksb;g.sbg‘bragouaagnvlrbtgqmulgouaaguhbul u j
Uhiuwbrlxgbmuu,gKgfvl,gavr gbmvbgxk ,gunuztbmrlxgabs ruagrbauopgprzab,
vl gmvag.ksl agbkgrbagov.kszagvl g uarzua,gviikz rlxgbkgrbagluu jggBmuzu
raglkbmrlxgakgufwbtgvl gluiuaarbksagvagbmks,gqmkguf.zviuabgbmugslrnuzau;
bmksgvzbgbmugrlnuabrxvbkzgqrbmksbgclkqou xu,gbmugfvxrabzvbugqrbmksb
yszra ribrkl,gvl ,gvpbuzgvoo,gbmugpkkogkpgbmugpvziuj”




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgfvlgfvtgxknuzlgmrfauopgquoogqmkgivllkbgxknuzlgkbmuzagak
gggggVgfvlgamkso g rppsaugykt,g.sb,gvagfsimgvagmugivl,gafkbmuzgxzrup
gggggVgquoo-.zu gfvlgragvgikfwksl gfvl
gggggVoogknuz-lriugakorirbs ugv.ksbgzrimuagafuooagkpgvnvzriu
gggggVoqvtagikfwovrlrlxgragbmugqvtglunuzgbkg.ugovfulbu 
gggggVwwubrbugikfuagbkgfugrlguvbrlx
ggggg.ubbuzgbkg.ugvoklugbmvlgrlgpkkoramgvl gbzks.ouakfugikfwvlt
ggggg.tgasawuibrlxgbmuf,gmvnugxrnulgbmufgvgbrbougbkg kgroo
gggggImvlxugklotgxrnuagpkzfgbkgrlysabriugvl gbtzvllt
gggggIrnrogrllkiuliugragfuvaszu gviikz rlxgbkgbrfuagvl gwoviua
gggggIklios ugbmug uwbmgkpgftgaulaug.tgrbagk.aiszrbt
gggggIklios rlxglkg.uvsbtgivlg.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgqmvbgbmutgauu
gggggIklpuaarklguluznvbuagzuwzkvimgvl g ravzfagaovl uz
gggggIkslbuzpurbgikl korlxagkpgwzubul uza
gggggIzvbuag r gqkzau,gqmkgbmzuqgmrfauopgrlbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgwknuzbt
ggggg uarzugkpgbzvnuo
gggggUlksxmgbkg kgbkgikfpkzbgftauop,gqrbmksbgmvnrlxgbkgiklakougkbmuza
gggggPzrul ,grbgraglkbglkqgbrfugbkgwovtgqrbmgtkszglvroa
gggggXvrlgbkgimvlxugvlgroogikl rbrklgpkzgklugbmvbgragsliuzbvrl
gggggXrnrlxgragvlgvf.rbrksagvl gvsbmkzrbvbrnugesvorbt
gggggXkk g kuaglkbgluiuaavzrotgasiiuu gunro;gvlkbmuzgunrogfvtgasiiuu 
gggggXzuu tgmsfkszgkpgluqgvl gslclkqlgbmrlxa
gggggMugfsabgpkkogrbgvgorbbougqmkgqkso glkbg.ug uufu gqmkootgvgpkko
gggggRgvoqvtagprl gaswuzposrbtgaswuzposksa
gggggRgvfg raxsabu gqrbmgbmugqkzo gRgpzuesulb
gggggRgvfgmvz gbkg.ugxkbgksb,g.sbg.urlxgkliugswklgbmugzkv 
gggggRgvfgnuztgqroorlxgbkgesrbgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgftgmksau
gggggRgiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgulyktrlxgbmugqkzo gqrbmksbg.sabou
gggggRgulbuzgrlbkgiklpr uliugqrbmg trlx
gggggRgxzs xuglkbmrlxg.sbgivzugvl gbzks.ou
gggggRgmvbugwknuzbtguesvootgqrbmgwvrl
gggggRgaikzlgbkgful gftauopg.tgmvonua
gggggRgqzrbugftg.kkcgpkzgpuqgfulgvl gpkzgpuqgtuvza
gggggYsabriugvoagbvcuagikxlravliugkpgbmkaugqmkgxouvlgvpbuzgbmugzuvwuz
gggggClkqlgunrogqvagunuzgfkzugaswwkzbv.ougbmvlgklugbmvbgqva,gluq
gggggOvqag(kpgWovbkgklgbzvnuo),gqmrimgpkz.r agrbgvpbuzgbmzuuaikzuj
gggggOr.uzbtgvl govdrluaa,gbmugesvorbruagfkabgwzu kfrlvlbgrlgfu
gggggOr.uzbtgkpgwknuzbt
gggggOr.uzbtgbkgouvl,g.sbglkbgbkgovtgkszgqmkougqurxmbgswklgkbmuza
gggggOrbbougvppvrzagfkabg rabsz.gsa
gggggFulgvagkpbulgikfful gvagsl uznvosugfug.utkl gzuvakl
gggggFubmrlcagRgwzkfraugrb,grpgRg.sbgavtgrb
gggggFtgfrl graguvarotgikfwkau gvbg rabvliu
gggggLurbmuzg.ugvg.sz ulgbkgftauopglkzgbkgvltgkbmuz
gggggLkgsaugbkgbmragvxu,gRgbmzkqgftauopg.vicgswklgbmvbgkbmuz
gggggLkbmrlxgpvooagqmuzugvoogpvooa
gggggLkbmrlxgwzuaauagakgmvz gswklgvgabvbugvagrllknvbrkl
gggggK.abrlvbugrlgxzkqrlxgqkzau
gggggKiiswtgkszgbmksxmbagv.ksbgbmugxuluzvo,gvl gv.ksbgslrnuzavogivsau
gggggKlugfvtgzuxzubg.ubbuzgbrfua,g.sbgivllkbgpotgpzkfgbmugwzuaulb
gggggKwwkarbrklgvl giklbzv ribrklgulbuzbvrlgvl glkszramgbmuf
gggggKszgesvorbruagmvnuglkgbrboug.sbgrlgikfwvzrakl
gggggWzupuzzrlxgbmugslrnuzavogvl gikffklgbrugbkgvooglvbrklvogbrua
gggggWzkiuu gakgoklxgvagbmuzugamvoog.ugrlcgvl gwvwuzgrlgbmugqkzo 
gggggAvbrapru gvl gwouvau gqrbmgvl grlgbmufauonua
gggggAubbou gftgbmksxmbagbkgornugswklgouaagbmvlgRgmvnu
gggggAkfugqrnuagiknubksagrl uu ,g.sbgnuztgpuqgbmvbgvzugxkk gfvlvxuza
gggggBmvbgokkcagvglriugquoo-fv ugamkugbkgtks
gggggBmuzugivlg.uglkgwouvaszugbkgfugqrbmksbgikffslrivbrkl
gggggBmrlcgftauopglkgoklxuzgqkzbmgftgkqlgivzu
gggggBragpkzgtksbmgbkgas.yuibgrbauopgbkgikffklgkwrlrkla
gggggBragfkzugovs v.ougbkgk.utgbmug.v gbmvlgbmugxkk 
gggggBrbouagkpgftgimvwbuzag kglkbgvoqvtagikfwzumul gbmugqmkougfvbbuz
gggggBzvnuogqrbmglkbgklotgvgluiuaavzt,g.sbgvgmvl akfuguesrwvxu
gggggBszlgswgftgutuagbkgmuvnulgbkgzubszlgbmvlca,gbmvlgbkgizvnu
gggggQurxm,gvagqrau:gfulgamkso ,gbmug.sz ulgkpgk.orxvbrkl
gggggQmvbgakzbgkpgqrlugmugorcu gbmug.uab:g“Bmvbgkpgvlkbmuz,”
ggggggQmvbgabuwgul agbmugluvzgvl gqmvbgabuwg.uxrlagbmugzufkbu
gggggQmulgRgbzvnuogRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgivzugpkzg.sbgftauop
gggggQraugfvlgbkgcuuwgvgisz.rlxgmvl gswklgbmugrfwubsagkpgpzrul amrw
gggggQkzo gqmuzugoktvobtgkpgklu’agkqlgimro zulgragslclkql
gggggQzubimu gvl g vlxuzksagbmrlxgbkg uwul gswklgkbmuza
gggggTksgmvnugokabgvgxkk givwbvrl,gbkgfvcugkpgmrfgvg.v gxuluzvo






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg18j

HjggggggggKpgFvlvxrlxgbmugQrooj
HRjgggggggKpgIzrwwouaj
HRRjggggggKpgWmtarkxlkftj



IMVWBUZgH

KPgFVLVXRLXgBMUgQROO

Puqgbmrlxa,grlgikfwvzraklgkpgqmvbgikffklotgvppuibgkbmuzgful,gfknu,gkz,gbk
avtg.ubbuz,gwkaauaagfu:gpkzg‘brag.sbgzuvaklgbmutgamkso gikliuzlgvgfvl,
wzknr u gbmutg kglkbgwkaauaagmrfjggRgvfgnuztgakorirbksa,g.kbmg.tgabs t
vl gvzxsfulb,gbkgulovzxugbmragwzrnrouxugkpgrlaular.rorbt,gqmrimgragrlgfu
lvbszvootgzvrau gbkgvgwzubbtg uxzuu,gakgbmvbgiklauesulbotgRguawksaugvl 
vfgnuztgfsimgfknu gqrbmgnuztgpuqgbmrlxajggRgmvnugvgiouvzgarxmbgulksxm,
.sbgRgprhgrbgswklgnuztgpuqgk.yuiba;gRgmvnugvgaulaug uorivbugvl gbul uz
ulksxm;g.sbgvlgvwwzumularklgvl gvwworivbrklgmvz gvl gluxorxulbjggRgvf
nuztgslqroorlxgbkgulxvxugftauop;gvagfsimgvagrlgfugorua,gRgufwoktgftauop
qmkootgklgftauop,gvl gunulgrlgbmvbgas.yuibgamkso gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkgisz.
vl gzuabzvrlgftgvppuibrklgpzkfgwoslxrlxgrbauopgknuzgmuv gvl guvzagrlbk
rb,grbg.urlxgvgas.yuibgbmvbgRgwkaauaagvbgbmugfuzitgkpgkbmuza,gvl gknuz
qmrimgpkzbslugmvagfkzugzrxmbgbmvlgR;gakgbmvbgunulgvagbkgmuvobm,gqmrimgR
akgfsimgnvosu,g‘bragvoogbmugfkzugluiuaavztgpkzgfuglkbgakgwvaarklvbuotgbk
iknubgvl gmuu grb,gbmvlgbkgprl g rauvauagakgrlaswwkzbv.oujggVgfvlgksxmb
bkgfk uzvbugmrfauopg.ubqrhbgbmugmvbzu gkpgwvrlgvl gbmugoknugkpgwouvaszu:
vl gWovbkgaubag kqlgvgfr  ougwvbmgkpgorpug.ubqrhbgbmugbqkjgg.sbgvxvrlab
asimgvppuibrklagvagqmkootgivzztgfugvqvtgpzkfgftauopgvl gprhgfuguoauqmuzu,
vxvrlabgbmkau,gRgavt,gRgkwwkaugftauopgqrbmgftgsbfkabgwkquzjgg‘Bragft
kwrlrklgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso goul gmrfauopgbkgkbmuza,gvl gklotgxrnugmrfauop
bkgmrfauopjggQuzugftgqrooguvatgbkgoul grbauopgksbgvl gbkg.ugaqvtu ,gR
amkso glkbgabricgbmuzu;gRgvfgbkkgbul uzg.kbmg.tglvbszugvl gsau:

gggggggggggg“Psxvhgzuzsf,gauiszvesugrlgkbrvglvbsaj”

gggggggggg[“Vnkr rlxgvppvrzagvl g.kzlgbkgauiszuguvauj”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,g ugBzrabj,grrrjg2,g9j]

Mkbgvl gk.abrlvbug rawsbua,gqmuzurlgftgv nuzavztgqkso gvbgovabgmvnugbmu
.ubbuz,gbmugraasugbmvbgqkso gzul uzgftgmuvbgvl gk.abrlvitg raxzviupso
qkso gwuzv nulbszugnuhgfugbkgbmugovabg uxzuujggAmkso gRgaubgftauopgbkgrb
vbgbmugzvbugbmvbgkbmuzag k,gftgaksogqkso glunuzgmvnugbmugpkziugbkg.uvz
bmugufkbrklgvl gvovzfagkpgbmkaugqmkgxzvawgvbgakgfsim;grbgqkso 
rffu rvbuotg.ug rakz uzu g.tgbmragrlqvz gvxrbvbrkljggRp,gakfubrfua,gR
mvnug.uulgwsbgswklgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgkbmuzgful’agvppvrza,gRgmvnugwzkfrau 
bkgbvcugbmufgrlgmvl ,g.sbglkbgrlbkgftgoslxagvl gornuz;gbkgbvcugbmufgswkl
fu,glkbgbkgrlikzwkzvbugbmuf;gbkgbvcugwvrla,gtua:gbkg.ugrfwvaarklu gv.ksb
rb,g.tglkgfuvla;gRgmvnugvgivzugkpgbmuf,g.sbgRgqrooglkbgarbgswklgbmufj
Rgmvnugulksxmgbkg kgbkgkz uzgvl gxknuzlgbmug kfuabrigbmzklxgkpgbmkaugbmvb
Rgmvnugrlgftgkqlgnurlagvl g.kquoa,gqrbmksbgrlbzk sirlxgvgizkq gkpgkbmuz
ful’agvppvrza;gvl gvfgaspprirulbotgikliuzlu gv.ksbgftgkqlgwzkwuzgvl 
lvbszvog.sarluaa,gqrbmksbgfu  orlxgqrbmgbmugikliuzlagkpgkbmuzajggAsimgva
clkqgmkqgfsimgbmutgkqugbkgbmufauonua,gvl gmkqgfvltgkppriuagbmutgvzug.ksl 
bkgkpgbmurzgkql,gprl gbmvbglvbszugmvagisbgbmufgksbgqkzcgulksxmgkpgbmurz
kqlgbkgcuuwgbmufgpzkfg.urlxgr oujgg“Bmksgmvabg.sarluaagulksxmgvbgmkfu:
okkcgbkgbmvbj”

Fulgoubgbmufauonuagksbgbkgmrzu;gbmurzgpvisobruagvzuglkbgpkzgbmufauonua,
.sbgpkzgbmkaugbkgqmkfgbmutgmvnugulaovnu gbmufauonua;g‘bragbmurzgbulvlba
kiiswtgbmuf,glkbgbmufauonuajggBmragikffklgmsfkszgwouvauaglkbgfujggQugfsab
.ugbmzrpbtgkpgbmugor.uzbtgkpgkszgaksoa,gvl glunuzgoubgrbgksbg.sbgswkl
ysabgkiivarkla,gqmrimgvzugnuztgpuq,grpgqugys xugvzrxmbjgg kg.sbgk.auznu
asimgvagmvnugviisabkfu gbmufauonuagbkg.ugvbgunuztgklu’agivoo:gbmutg kgrb
rl rppuzulbotgswklgvoo,gvagquoogorbbougvagxzuvb,gkiivarkla;grlgbmvbgqmrim
lkbmrlxgikliuzlagbmuf;gvagfsimgvagrlgqmvbgrfwkzbagbmufgfkabjggBmutgbmzsab
bmufauonuagrlgrl rppuzulbotgqmuzunuzgbmuzugragqkzcgbkg kgvl gk.orxvbrkl,
vl gvzugqrbmksbgorpugqmulglkbgrlgbsfsobsksag.sabou:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgluxkbrragaslb,gluxkbrrgivsau,”

ggggg[“Bmutgvzugrlg.sarluaagpkzg.sarluaa’gavcuj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g22j]

Rbgraglkbgakgfsimgbmvbgbmutgqroogxk,gvagrbgragbmvbgbmutgivllkbgabvl 
abroo:gorcugvgzkoorlxgabklugbmvbgivllkbgabkwgbroogrbgivlgxkglkgpszbmuzj
Kiiswvbrkl,gqrbmgvgiuzbvrlgakzbgkpgful,gragvgfvzcgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgvl 
 rxlrbt:gbmurzgaksoagauucgzuwkaugrlgvxrbvbrkl,gvagimro zulg kg.tg.urlx
zkicu grlgvgizv ou;gbmutgfvtgwzklksliugbmufauonuagvagauznriuv.ougbkgbmurz
pzrul a,gvagbmutgvzugbzks.ouakfugbkgbmufauonuajggLkgklug rabzr.sbuagmra
fklutgbkgkbmuza,g.sbgunuztgklug rabzr.sbuagmragbrfugvl gmragorpu:gbmuzu
raglkbmrlxgkpgqmrimgqugvzugakgwzk rxvogvagkpgbmuaugbqkgbmrlxa,gkpgqmrim
bkg.ugbmzrpbtgqkso g.ug.kbmgikfful v.ougvl gsaupsojggRgvfgkpgvgesrbu
iklbzvztgmsfksz;gRgokkcgbkgftauop,gvl gikffklotgiknubgqrbmglkgxzuvb
vz kszgqmvbgRg kg uarzu,gvl g uarzugorbbou;gvl gRgufwoktgvl g.satgftauop
vbgbmugavfugzvbu,gzvzuotgvl gbufwuzvbuotjggQmvbunuzgbmutgbvcugrlgmvl ,
bmutg kgrbgqrbmgbmurzgsbfkabgqroogvl gnumufuliujggBmuzugvzugakgfvlt
 vlxuzksagabuwa,gbmvb,gpkzgbmugfkzugavpubt,gqugfsabgvgorbbougorxmbotgvl 
aswuzprirvootgxor ugknuzgbmugqkzo ,gvl glkbgzsamgbmzksxmgrbjggWouvaszu
rbauopgragwvrlpsogrlgwzkpsl rbt:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Rliu ragwuzgrxlua,
ggggggggggggggggggggAswwkarbkagirluzrg kokakj”

gggggggggg[“Tksgbzuv gklgprzu,gmr  ulgsl uzg uiurbpsogvamuaj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrjgr,g7j]

BmugWvzorvfulbgkpg.kz uvshgimkaugfugfvtkzgkpgbmurzgirbtgvbgvgbrfugqmulgR
qvagvbgvg rabvliugpzkfgPzvliu,--[Vbg.vxlkg uoovgNroov,gluvzgOsiiv,
Auwbuf.uzg1581]--vl gabroogfkzugzufkbugpzkfgvltgasimgbmksxmbj
Rgulbzuvbu gbkg.uguhisau ,g.sbgRgqvagbko g.tgftgpzrul agbmvbgRgmv 
ikffrbbu gvlguzzkzgrlgakg krlx,gvl gbmugxzuvbuzg.uivsaugbmugcrlxgmv ,
fkzuknuz,grlbuzwkau gmragikffvl grlgbmvbgvppvrzjgg‘Bragvlgkppriugbmvb
ksxmbgbkg.ugokkcu gswklgakgfsimgfkzugmklkszv.ou,gvagrbgmvaglkgkbmuz
avovztglkzgv nvlbvxugbmvlgbmug.vzugmklkszgkpgrbaguhuisbrkljggRbgiklbrlsua
bqkgtuvza,g.sbgfvtg.uguhbul u g.tgvgauikl guouibrkl,gqmrimgnuztgzvzuot
mvwwula;grbgqvagbkgfu,gvl gmv glunuzg.uulgakg.sbgbqriug.upkzu:gakfugtuvza
vxkgbkgFklaruszg ugOvlavi,gvl govbuotgbkgFklaruszg ug.rzkl,gFvzamvogkp
Pzvliu,grlgqmkaugwoviugRgasiiuu u ;gvl ,gRgoupbgfrlugbkgFklaruszg u
Fvbrxlkl,gFvzamvogkpgPzvliugvoak:gwzks gkpgakglk.ougvgpzvbuzlrbt--

ggggggggggggggg“Sbuzesug.klsagwvirag.uooresugfrlrabuzj”

gggggggggg[“Urbmuzgklugvgxkk gfrlrabuzgrlgwuviugvl gqvzj”
ggggggggggg--VUlur ,ghrjg658j]

Pkzbslugqkso gmvnugvgmvl grlgftgwzkfkbrkl,g.tgbmragwvzbrisovz
irzisfabvliugqmrimgamugwsbgrlgkpgmuzgkql,glkbgvobkxubmuzgnvrl;gpkz
Vouhvl uzg ra vrlu gbmugvf.vaav kzagkpgIkzrlbm,gqmkgivfugbkgkppuzgmrfgv
.szxuaa-amrwgkpgbmurzgirbt;g.sbgqmulgbmutgwzkiuu u gbkgovtg.upkzugmrf
bmvbg.viimsagvl gMuzisouagquzugvoakgrlgbmugzuxrabuz,gmugxzvirksaot
bmvlcu gbmufj

Vbgftgvzzrnvo,gRgpvrbmpsootgvl giklairulbrksaotgzuwzuaulbu gftauopgbk
bmufgpkzgasimgvagRgprl gftauopgbkg.u--vgfvlgqrbmksbgfufkzt,gqrbmksb
nrxrovliu,gqrbmksbguhwuzruliu,gvl gqrbmksbgnrxksz;g.sbgqrbmvo,gqrbmksb
mvbzu ,gqrbmksbgvf.rbrkl,gqrbmksbgvnvzriu,gvl gqrbmksbgnrkouliu;gbmvb
bmutgfrxmbg.ugrlpkzfu gkpgftgesvorbrua,gvl gclkqgqmvbgbmutgquzugbkguhwuib
pzkfgftgauznriujggVl gqmuzuvagbmugclkqou xugbmutgmv gmv gkpgftgovbu
pvbmuz,gvl gbmugmklkszgbmutgmv gpkzgmragfufkzt,gmv gvoklugrlirbu gbmufgbk
iklpuzgbmragpvnkszgswklgfu,gRgwovrlotgbko gbmufgbmvbgRgamkso g.ugnuzt
akzztgvltbmrlxgamkso gfvcugakgxzuvbgvlgrfwzuaarklgswklgfugvagbmurz
vppvrzagvl gbmugikliuzlagkpgbmurzgirbtgmv gfv ugswklgmrf,gqmroabgmugmuo 
bmugxknuzlfulbgbkgqmrimgbmutgmv gwzupuzzu gfujggRgzufuf.uzu ,gqmulgvg.kt,
bkgmvnugauulgmrfgrlgmragko gvxugizsuootgbkzfulbu gqrbmgbmuaugws.ori
vppvrza,gluxouibrlxgbmugakpbgzuwkaugkpgmragkqlgmksau,gbkgqmrimgbmu
 uioularklgkpgmragvxugmv gzu siu gmrfgpkzgaunuzvogtuvzag.upkzu,gbmu
fvlvxufulbgkpgmragkqlgvppvrza,gvl gmragmuvobm;gvl giuzbvrlotg uawrarlx
mragkqlgorpu,gqmrimgqvagrlgxzuvbg vlxuzgkpg.urlxgokab,g.tg.urlxgulxvxu 
rlgoklxgvl gwvrlpsogykszlutagklgbmurzg.umvopjggAsimgqvagmu;gvl gbmra
msfkszgkpgmragwzkiuu u gpzkfgvgfvznuooksagxkk glvbszu;glunuzgqvagbmuzugv
fkzugimvzrbv.ougvl gwkwsovzgaksojggTubgbmragwzkiuu rlxgqmrimgRgikfful grl
kbmuza,gRg kglkbgoknugbkgpkookqgftauop,gvl gvfglkbgqrbmksbguhisauj

Mugmv gouvzlu gbmvbgvgfvlgfsabgpkzxubgmrfauopgpkzgmraglurxm.ksz,gvl gbmvb
bmugwvzbrisovzgqvagkpglkgfvlluzgkpgiklar uzvbrklgrlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgbmu
xuluzvojggFkabgkpgbmugzsouagvl gwzuiuwbagkpgbmugqkzo gzslgbmragqvt;gbk
 zrnugsagksbgkpgkszauonuagrlbkgbmugabzuubgpkzgbmug.uluprbgkpgws.ori
akirubt;gbmutgbmksxmbgbkg kgvgxzuvbgpuvbgbkg rnuzbgvl gzufknugsagpzkf
kszauonua,gvaasfrlxgqugquzug.sbgbkkgfsimgprhu gbmuzu,gvl g.tgvgbkk
lvbszvogrliorlvbrkl;gvl gmvnugavr gvoogbmutgikso gbkgbmvbgwszwkau:gpkz
‘braglkgluqgbmrlxgpkzgbmugavxuagbkgwzuvimgbmrlxagvagbmutgauznu,glkbgva
bmutgvzujggBzsbmgmvagrbagk.abzsibrkla,grliklnulruliua,gvl 
rlikfwvbr.rorbruagqrbmgsa;gqugfsabgkpbulg uiurnugbmvbgqugfvtglkbg uiurnu
kszauonua;gvl gamsbgkszgutuagvl gkszgsl uzabvl rlxagbkgzu zuaagvl gvful 
bmuf:

gggggggggg“Rfwuzrbrgulrfgys rivlb,gubgesrgpzuesulbuz
ggggggggggrlgmkigrwasfgpvooul rgaslb,gluguzzulbj”

ggggg[“Pkzgbmugrxlkzvlbgys xu,gvl gbmuzupkzugvzugkpbgbkg.ug uiurnu ,
gggggouaagbmutgamkso guzzj”--Esrlbroj,gRlabjgKzvbj,ghrjg17j]

Qmulgbmutgkz uzgsagbkgoknugbmzuu,gpksz,gkzgprpbtg uxzuuagkpgbmrlxagv.knu
kszauonua,ggbmutg kgorcugvzimuza,gqmk,gbkgmrbgbmugqmrbu,gbvcugbmurzgvrfgv
xzuvbg uvogmrxmuzgbmvlgbmug.sbb;gbkgfvcugvgizkkcu gabricgabzvrxmb,gqu
.ul grbgbmugiklbzvztgqvtj

Rg.uorunugbmvbgrlgbmugBufwougkpgWvoova,gvagqugauugrlgvoogkbmuzgzuorxrkla,
bmuzugquzugvwwvzulbgftabuzruagbkg.uguhwkau gbkgbmugwukwou;gvl gkbmuza,
fkzugauizubgvl gmrxm,gbmvbgquzugklotgbkg.ugamkqlgbkgasimgvagquzu
wzkpuaau ;g‘bragorcuotgbmvbgrlgbmuaugbmugbzsugwkrlbgkpgpzrul amrwgbmvb
unuztgklugkquagbkgmrfauopgragbkg.ugpksl ;glkbgvgpvoaugpzrul amrw,gbmvb
fvcuagsaguf.zviugxokzt,gclkqou xu,gzrimua,gvl gbmugorcu,gqrbmgvgwzrlirwvo
vl grffk uzvbugvppuibrkl,gvagfuf.uzagkpgkszg.urlx;glkzgvlgrl raizuubgvl 
uppufrlvbugpzrul amrw,gqmuzurlgrbgmvwwula,gvagqrbmgrnt,gbmvbgrbg uivta
vl gzsrlagbmugqvooagrbguf.zviua;g.sbgvgaksl gvl gzuxsovzgpzrul amrw,
uesvootgsaupsogvl gwouvavlbjggMugqmkgclkqagbmug sbruagkpgbmragpzrul amrw
vl gwzvibrauagbmufgragbzsotgkpgbmugiv.rlubgkpgbmugFsaua,gvl gmvagvbbvrlu 
bkgbmugmurxmbgkpgmsfvlgqra kfgvl gkpgkszgmvwwrluaa,gasimgvlgklu,guhvibot
clkqrlxgqmvbgmugkquagbkgmrfauop,gqroogklgmragwvzbgprl gbmvbgmugksxmbgbk
vwwotgbkgmrfauopgbmugsaugkpgbmugqkzo gvl gkpgkbmuzgful;gvl gbkg kgbmra,
bkgiklbzr.sbugbkgws.origakirubtgbmug sbruagvl gkppriuagvwwuzbvrlrlxgbk
mrfjggMugqmkg kuaglkbgrlgakfugakzbgornugpkzgkbmuza,g kuaglkbgornugfsim
pkzgmrfauop:

ggggg“Esrgar.rgvfrisaguab,gairbkgmsligvfrisfgkflr.saguaauj”

ggggg[“Mugqmkgragmragkqlgpzrul ,gragvgpzrul gbkgunuzt.k tguoauj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g6j]

Bmugwzrlirwvogimvzxugqugmvnugra,gbkgunuztgklugmragkqlgikl sib;gvl g‘bra
pkzgbmragklotgbmvbgqugmuzugvzujggVagmugqmkgamkso gpkzxubgbkgornugv
nrzbsksagvl gmkotgorpu,gvl gamkso gbmrlcgmugviesrbbu gmrfauopgkpgmrag sbt
rlgrlabzsibrlxgvl gbzvrlrlxgkbmuzagswgbkgrb,gqkso g.ugvgpkko;gunulgakgmu
qmkgv.vl klagmragkqlgwvzbrisovzgmuvobmpsogvl gwouvavlbgornrlxgbkgauznu
kbmuzagbmuzuqrbm,gbvcua,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gvgqzklxgvl gsllvbszvogikszauj

Rgqkso glkbgbmvbgfulgamkso gzupsau,grlgbmugufwoktfulbagbmutgbvcugswkl
bmuf,gbmurzgvbbulbrkl,gwvrla,guokesuliu,gaquvb,gvl g.okk grpgluu g.u:

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Lklgrwaugwzkgivzragvfrira
ggggggggggggggggggggVsbgwvbzrv,gbrfr sagwuzrzu:”

ggggg[“Mrfauopglkbgvpzvr gbkg rugpkzg.uoknu gpzrul a,gkzgpkzgmra
gggggikslbztj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grnjg9,g51j]

.sbg‘bragklotg.kzzkqu ,gvl gviir ulbvoot;gmragfrl g.urlxgvoqvtagrlgzuwkau
vl grlgmuvobm;glkbgqrbmksbgvibrkl,g.sbgqrbmksbgnuhvbrkl,gqrbmksbgwvaarklj
Bkg.ugarfwotgvibrlxgikabagmrfgakgorbbou,gbmvbgmugvibagunulgaouuwrlx;
.sbgrbgfsabg.ugaubgklgxkrlxgqrbmg raizubrkl;gpkzgbmug.k tgzuiurnuagbmu
kppriuagrfwkau gswklgrbgysabgviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgbmutgvzu;gbmugfrl gkpbul
uhbul agvl gfvcuagbmufgmuvnruzgvbgrbagkqlguhwulau,gxrnrlxgbmufgqmvb
fuvaszugrbgwouvauajggFulgwuzpkzfgorcugbmrlxagqrbmgaunuzvogakzbagkp
ul uvnksz,gvl g rppuzulbgiklbulbrklgkpgqroo;gbmugklug kuagquoogulksxm
qrbmksbgbmugkbmuz;gpkzgmkqgfvltgwukwougmvdvz gbmufauonuagunuztg vtgrlgqvz
qrbmksbgvltgikliuzlgqmrimgqvtgrbgxkua;gvl gbmzsabgbmufauonuagrlbkgbmu
 vlxuzagkpg.vbboua,gbmugokaagkpgqmrimgqrooglkbg.zuvcgbmurzgluhbglrxmb’a
aouuw?gvl gasimgvgfvlgfvtg.ugvbgmkfu,gksbgkpgbmug vlxuzgqmrimgmug szab
lkbgmvnugokkcu gswkl,gqmkgragfkzugwvaarklvbuotgikliuzlu gpkzgbmugraasugkp
bmragqvz,gvl gqmkaugaksogragfkzugvlhrksagv.ksbgunulbagbmvlgbmugako ruz
qmkgbmuzurlgabvcuagmrag.okk gvl gmragorpujggRgikso gmvnugulxvxu gftauop
rlgws.origufwoktfulbagqrbmksbgesrbbrlxgftgkqlgfvbbuzagvglvro’ag.zuv bm,
vl gmvnugxrnulgftauopgbkgkbmuzagqrbmksbgv.vl klrlxgftauopjggBmra
amvzwluaagvl gnrkouliugkpg uarzuagfkzugmrl uzgbmvlgbmutgv nvliugbmu
uhuisbrklgkpgqmvbgqugsl uzbvcu;gproogsagqrbmgrfwvbruliugvxvrlabgaokqgkz
iklbzvztgunulba,gvl gqrbmgmuvbgvl gasawrirklgvxvrlabgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgqu
mvnugbkg kjggQuglunuzgivzztgklgbmvbgbmrlxgquoog.tgqmrimgqugvzu
wzuwkaauaau gvl gou :

ggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Fvougislibvgfrlrabzvb
gggggggggggggggggggggggggRfwubsaj”

ggggg[“Rfwsoaugfvlvxuagvoogbmrlxagrooj”--Abvbrsa,gBmu.vr ,ghjg704j]

Mugqmkgbmuzurlgufwoktagklotgmragys xfulbgvl gv  zuaagwzkiuu agfkzu
imuuzpsoot:gmugikslbuzpurba,gmugxrnuagqvt,gmug upuzagesrbugvbgmraguvau,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugluiuaarbruagkpgkiivarkla;gmugpvroagrlgmragvbbufwb
qrbmksbgbzks.ougvl gvpporibrkl,gzuv tgvl gulbrzugpkzgvgluqgulbuzwzrau;
mugvoqvtagfvzimuagqrbmgbmug.zr ougrlgmragmvl jggRlgmrfgqmkgragrlbkhrivbu 
qrbmgbmragnrkoulbgvl gbtzvllrivogrlbulbrkl,gqug raiknuz,gkpgluiuaarbt,
fsimgrfwzs uliugvl grlysabriu;gbmugrfwubskarbtgkpgmrag uarzugivzzruagmrf
vqvt;gbmuaugvzugzvamgfkbrkla,gvl ,grpgpkzbslug kglkbgnuztgfsimgvaarab,
kpgnuztgorbbougpzsrbjggWmrokakwmtg rzuibagbmvb,grlgbmugzunulxugkp
rlyszruagzuiurnu ,gqugamkso gabzrwgkszauonuagkpgimkouz;glkbgbmvbgbmu
imvabraufulbgamkso g.ugouaa,g.sb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgbmugzunulxugfvt
.ugbmug.ubbuzgvl gfkzugmuvnrotgovr gkl,gqmrim,grbgikliurnua,gqroog.ug.t
bmragrfwubskarbtgmrl uzu jggPkzgvlxuzglkbgklotg rabsz.a,g.sb,gkpgrbauop,
voakgquvzruagbmugvzfagkpgbmkaugqmkgimvabrau;gbmragprzug.ulsf.agvl gqvabua
bmurzgpkziu;gvagrlgwzuirwrbvbrkl,g“puabrlvbrkgbvz vguab,”--mvabugbzrwa
swgrbagkqlgmuuoa,gpubbuza,gvl gabkwagrbauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Rwavgaugnuokirbvagrfworivbj”--Auluiv,gUwjg44

Pkzguhvfwou,gviikz rlxgbkgqmvbgRgikffklotgauu,gvnvzriugmvaglkgxzuvbuz
rfwu rfulbgbmvlgrbauop;gbmugfkzug.ulbgvl gnrxkzksagrbgra,gbmugouaagrb
zvcuagbkxubmuz,gvl gikffklotgakkluzgxzkqagzrimgqmulg raxsrau grlgvgnrakz
kpgor.uzvorbtj

Vgnuztguhiuooulbgxulboufvl,gvl gvgpzrul gkpgfrlu,gzvlgvgzracgkpgrfwvrzrlx
mragpvisobruag.tgvgbkkgwvaarklvbugvbbulbrklgvl gvppuibrklgbkgbmugvppvrza
kpgvgiuzbvrlgwzrliugmragfvabuz;--[Wzk.v.otgbmugCrlxgkpgLvnvzzu,gvpbuzqvz 
MulztgRNj]--qmrimgfvabuzgmvagbmsagwkzbzvtu gmrfauopgbkgfu;g“bmvbgmu
pkzuauuagbmugqurxmbgkpgviir ulbagvagquoogvagvlkbmuz,g.sbgbmvbgrlgbmkau
pkzgqmrimgbmuzugraglkgzufu t,gmugwzuaulbotgzuakonuagswklgasppuzrlx;grl
kbmuza,gmvnrlxgbvculgvoogbmugluiuaavztgwzuivsbrklagqmrimg.tgbmugnrnvirbt
kpgmragsl uzabvl rlxgmugivlgwzuaulbotg k,gmugesrubotgvqvrbagqmvbgfvt
pkookqj”ggVl ,grlgbzsbm,gRgmvnugviikz rlxotgauulgmrfgfvrlbvrlgvgxzuvb
rl rppuzulitgvl gor.uzbtgkpgvibrklagvl gauzulrbtgkpgikslbulvliugrlgnuzt
xzuvbgvl g rpprisobgvppvrza:gRgprl gmrfgfsimgxzuvbuz,gvl gkpgxzuvbuz
ivwvirbtgrlgv nuzaugbmvlgrlgwzkawuzksagpkzbslu;gmrag upuvbagvzugbkgmrf
fkzugxokzrksagbmvlgmragnribkzrua,gvl gmragfkszlrlxgbmvlgmragbzrsfwmj

Iklar uz,gbmvbgunulgrlgnvrlgvl gpzrnkoksagvibrkla,gvagvbgimuaa,gbullra,
vl gbmugorcu,gbmraguvxuzgvl gvz ulbgulxvxrlxgqrbmgvlgrfwubsksag uarzu,
rffu rvbuotgbmzkqagbmugfrl gvl gfuf.uzagrlbkgrl raizubrklgvl g rakz uz:gv
fvlgvabksl agvl gmrl uzagmrfauop;gmugqmkgivzzruagmrfauopgfkzugfk uzvbuot,
.kbmgbkqvz agxvrlgvl gokaa,gmvagvoqvtagmragqrbagv.ksbgmrf;gbmugouaa
wuunramgvl gwvaarklvbugmugragvbgwovt,gmugwovtagfsimgfkzugv nvlbvxuksaot
vl gaszuotj

Vagbkgbmugzuab,gqugmrl uzgbmugfrl ’agxzvawgvl gmko ,grlgxrnrlxgrbgakgfvlt
bmrlxagbkgaurdugswkl;gakfugbmrlxagqugamkso gklotgkppuzgbkgrb;gbrugrbgbk
kbmuza,gvl gqrbmgkbmuzagrlikzwkzvbugrbjggRbgivlgpuuogvl g raiuzlgvoo
bmrlxa,g.sbgksxmbgbkgpuu gswklglkbmrlxg.sbgrbauop;gvl gamkso g.u
rlabzsibu grlgqmvbgwzkwuzotgikliuzlagrbauop,gvl gbmvbgragwzkwuzotgkpgrba
kqlgmvnrlxgvl gas.abvliujggBmugovqagkpglvbszugbuvimgsagqmvbgysabotgqu
luu jggVpbuzgbmugavxuagmvnugbko gsagbmvbglkgklugragrl rxulbgviikz rlxgbk
lvbszu,gvl gbmvbgunuztgklugragakgviikz rlxgbkgkwrlrkl,gbmutgnuztgas.bot
 rabrlxsramg.ubqrhbgbmug uarzuagbmvbgwzkiuu gpzkfgmuz,gvl gbmkaugbmvb
wzkiuu gpzkfgbmug rakz uzgkpgkszgkqlgpvlit:gbmkaugkpgqmrimgqugivlgauugbmu
ul gvzugmuza;gbmkaugbmvbgpotg.upkzugsa,gvl gkpgqmrimgqugivlgauuglkgul ,
vzugkszgkql:gbmugwknuzbtgkpgxkk agraguvarotgiszu ;gbmugwknuzbtgkpgbmu
aksogragrzzuwvzv.ou:

ggggggggg“Lvfgar,gesk gavbraguabgmkfrlr,gr gavbraguaaugwkbuaaub
ggggggggggMkigavbguzvb:glsli,gessfgmkiglklguab,gesrgizu rfsagwkzzk
gggggggggg rnrbrvagsoovagvlrfsfgfrguhwouzugwkbuaau?”

ggggg[“Pkzgrpgqmvbgragpkzgfvlgulksxm,gikso g.ugulksxm,grbgquzugulksxm;
ggggg.sbgarliugrbgraglkbgak,gmkqgivlgRg.uorunugbmvbgvltgquvobmgivlgxrnu
gggggftgfrl giklbulbj”--Osirorsagvwu gLklrsfgFvziuoorlsf,gNjgauijg98j]

Akizvbua,gauurlxgvgxzuvbgesvlbrbtgkpgzrimua,gyuquoa,gvl gpszlrbszu
ivzzru grlgwkfwgbmzksxmgmragirbt:gg“Mkqgfvltgbmrlxa,”gavr gmu,g“Rg kglkb
 uarzu!”--[Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,gNjg32j]--Fubzk kzsagornu gklgbquonu
ksliuagvg vt,gUwriszsagswklgouaa;gFubzkiouagaouwbgrlgqrlbuzgv.zkv 
vfklxabgamuuw,grlgasffuzgrlgbmugiokrabuzagkpgimszimua:

ggggggggggggggg“Aspprirbgv gr glvbszv,gesk gwkairbj”

gggggggggg[“Lvbszugasppriuagpkzgqmvbgmugzuesrzuaj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g90j]

Iouvlbmuagornu g.tgbmugov.kszgkpgmragkqlgmvl a,gvl g.kvabu gbmvb
Iouvlbmua,grpgmugqkso ,gikso gtubgfvrlbvrlgvlkbmuzgIouvlbmuaj

Rpgbmvbgqmrimglvbszuguhvibotgvl gkzrxrlvootgzuesrzuagkpgsagpkzgbmu
iklauznvbrklgkpgkszg.urlxg.ugbkkgorbboug(vagrlgbzsbmgqmvbgrbgra,gvl gmkq
xkk gimuvwgorpugfvtg.ugfvrlbvrlu ,givllkbg.ug.ubbuzguhwzuaau gbmvlg.t
bmragiklar uzvbrkl,gbmvbgrbgragakgorbbougbmvbg.tgrbagorbbouluaagrb
uaivwuagbmugxzrwugvl gamkicgkpgpkzbslu),goubgsagvookqgkszauonuagvgorbbou
fkzu;goubgsagivoogunuztgklugkpgkszgmv.rbagvl gikl rbrklaglvbszu;goubgsa
zvbugvl gbzuvbgkszauonuag.tgbmragfuvaszu;goubgsagabzubimgksz
vwwszbulvliuagvl gviikslbagakgpvz;gpkzgakgpvz,gRgpvlit,gqugmvnugakfu
uhisaujggIsabkfgragvgauikl glvbszu,gvl glkgouaagwkquzpsojggQmvbgra
qvlbrlxgbkgftgisabkf,gRgzuicklgragqvlbrlxgbkgfu;gvl gRgamkso g.ugvofkab
vagquoogiklbulbgbmvbgbmutgbkkcgvqvtgftgorpugvagisbgfugamkzbgrlgbmugqvt
qmuzurlgRgmvnugakgoklxgornu jggRgvfglkgoklxuzgrlgikl rbrklgpkzgvltgxzuvb
imvlxu,glkzgbkgwsbgftauopgrlbkgvgluqgvl gslqklbu gikszau,glkbgunulgbk
vsxfulbvbrkljgg‘Bragwvabgbmugbrfugpkzgfugbkg.uikfugkbmuzgbmvlgqmvbgRgvf;
vl gvagRgamkso gikfwovrlgkpgvltgxzuvbgxkk gmvwgbmvbgamkso glkqg.upvoogfu,
bmvbgrbgivfuglkbgrlgbrfugbkg.ugulyktu :

ggggggggggggggg“Eskgfrmrgpkzbslva,garglklgikliu rbszgsbr?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgragbmugxkk gpkzbslugbkgfu,grpgrbgraglkbgxzvlbu gbkgfu
gggggbkgsaugrbj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg5,g12j]

akgamkso gRgikfwovrlgkpgvltgrlqvz gviesrarbrkljggRbgquzugvofkabg.ubbuz
lunuz,gbmvlgakgovbu,gbkg.uikfugvlgmkluabgfvl,gvl gquoogprbgbkgornu,gqmul
klugmvaglkgoklxuzgbkgornujggR,gqmkgvfgv.ksbgbkgfvcugftguhrbgksbgkpgbmu
qkzo ,gqkso guvarotgzuarxlgbkgvltgluqikfuz,gqmkgamkso g uarzugrb,gvoogbmu
wzs uliugRgvfglkqgviesrzrlxgrlgbmugqkzo ’agikffuziu;gvpbuzgfuvb,gfsabvz j
Rgmvnuglkgluu gkpgxkk agkpgqmrimgRgivlgfvcuglkgsau;gkpgqmvbgsaugra
clkqou xugbkgmrfgqmkgmvagokabgmragmuv ?gg‘Bragvlgrlysztgvl gslcrl luaagrl
pkzbslugbkgbul uzgsagwzuaulbagbmvbgqroogklotgrlawrzugsagqrbmgvgysab
 uawrbugbmvbgqugmv gbmufglkbgrlgbmurzg sugauvakljggXsr ugfuglkgfkzu;gR
ivlglkgoklxuzgxkjggKpgakgfvltgwvzbagvagfvcugswgvgaspprirulit,gwvbruliugra
bmugfkabgaspprirulbjggXrnugbmugivwvirbtgkpgvlguhiuooulbgbzu.ougbkgbmu
imkzrabuzgqmkgmvagzkbbulgoslxa,gvl guokesuliugbkgvgmuzfrbguhrou grlbkgbmu
 uauzbagkpgVzv.rvjggBmuzugluu aglkgvzbgbkgmuowgvgpvoo;gbmugul gprl a
rbauopgkpgrbauopgvbgbmugikliosarklgkpgunuztgvppvrzjggFtgqkzo gragvbgvl
ul ,gftgpkzfguhwrzu ;gRgvfgbkbvootgkpgbmugwvab,gvl gvfg.ksl gbkgvsbmkzrau
rb,gvl gbkgiklpkzfgftgksbxkrlxgbkgrbjggRgqroogmuzug uiovzu,g.tgqvtgkp
uhvfwou,gbmvbgbmugWkwu’agovbugbulg vta’g rfrlsbrkl

ggggg[XzuxkztgHRRRj,grlg1582,gzupkzfu gbmugIvoul vz,gvl ,grlgiklauesuliu,
gggggrlgPzvliugbmutgvoogvbgkliugwvaau gpzkfgbmug9bmgbkgbmug20bm
ggggg uiuf.uzj]

mvagbvculgfugakgv.vicgbmvbgRgivllkbgquoogzuiklirougftauopgbkgrb;gRg.uoklx
bkgbmugtuvzagqmuzurlgqugcuwbgvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgviikslbjggAkgvlirulbgvl gak
oklxgvgisabkfgimvooulxuagftgv muzuliugbkgrb,gakgbmvbgRgvfgiklabzvrlu gbk
.ugakfuqmvbgmuzubrivogklgbmvbgwkrlbgrlivwv.ougkpgvlt,gbmksxmgikzzuibrnu,
rllknvbrkljggFtgrfvxrlvbrkl,grlgawrbugkpgftgbuubm,gvoqvtagwsamuagfugbul
 vtagpkzqvz gkzg.vicqvz ,gvl gragunuzgfszfszrlxgrlgftguvza:g“Bmragzsou
ikliuzlagbmkaugqmkgvzugbkg.uxrlgbkg.uj”ggRpgmuvobmgrbauop,gaquubgvagrb
ra,gzubszlagbkgfug.tgprba,g‘bragzvbmuzgbkgxrnugfugivsaugkpgzuxzubgbmvl
wkaauaarklgkpgrb;gRgmvnuglkgwoviugoupbgbkgcuuwgrbgrljggBrfugouvnuagfu;
qrbmksbgqmrimglkbmrlxgivlg.ugwkaauaau jggKm,gqmvbgorbbougviikslbgamkso gR
fvcugkpgbmkaugxzuvbguouibrnug rxlrbruagbmvbgRgauugrlgasimguabuufgrlgbmu
qkzo ,gbmvbgvzuglunuzgiklpuzzu g.sbgswklgfulgqmkgvzugbvcrlxgouvnugkpgrb;
qmuzurlgbmutg kglkbgakgfsimgzuxvz gmkqgquoogbmugfvlgqroog raimvzxugmra
bzsab,gvagmkqgamkzbgmragv frlrabzvbrklgqroog.u:gpzkfgbmugnuztgulbztgbmut
okkcgvbgbmuguhrbjggRlgamkzb,gRgvfgv.ksbgprlramrlxgbmragfvl,gvl glkb
zu.sro rlxgvlkbmuzjgg.tgoklxgsau,gbmragpkzfgragrlgfugbszlu grlbk
as.abvliu,gvl gpkzbslugrlbkglvbszuj

Rgavt,gbmuzupkzu,gbmvbgunuztgklugkpgsagpuu.ougizuvbszuagraguhisav.ougrl
bmrlcrlxgbmvbgbkg.ugmragkqlgqmrimgragikfwzrau gsl uzgbmragfuvaszu;g.sb
qrbmvo,g.utkl gbmuaugorfrba,g‘braglkbmrlxg.sbgiklpsarkl;g‘bragbmugovzxuab
uhbulbgqugivlgxzvlbgbkgkszgkqlgiovrfajggBmugfkzugqugvfworptgkszgluu gvl 
kszgwkaauaarkl,gakgfsimgbmugfkzug kgquguhwkaugkszauonuagbkgbmug.okqagkp
Pkzbslugvl gv nuzarbruajggBmugivzuuzgkpgkszg uarzuagksxmbgbkg.u
irzisfaizr.u gvl gzuabzvrlu gbkgvgamkzbgorfrbgkpgbmugluvzuabgvl gfkab
iklbrxsksagikffk rbrua;gvl gbmurzgikszaugksxmb,gfkzuknuz,gbkg.ugwuzpkzfu 
lkbgrlgvgzrxmbgorlu,gbmvbgul aguoauqmuzu,g.sbgrlgvgirziou,gkpgqmrimgbmu
bqkgwkrlba,g.tgvgamkzbgqmuuo,gfuubgvl gbuzfrlvbugrlgkszauonuajggVibrkla
bmvbgvzugivzzru gklgqrbmksbgbmragzupouibrkl--vgluvzgvl guaaulbrvo
zupouibrkl,gRgfuvl--asimgvagbmkaugkpgvf.rbrksagvl gvnvzrirksagful,gvl gak
fvltgfkzugvagzslgwkrlb-.ovlc,gvl gbkgqmkaugivzuuzgvoqvtagivzzruagbmuf
.upkzugbmufauonua,gasimgvibrkla,gRgavt;gvzuguzzkluksagvl garicotj

Fkabgkpgkszg.sarluaagragpvziu:

ggggggggggggggg“Fsl sagslrnuzasaguhuziubgmrabzrklrvfj”
gggggggggggggggg--[WubzklrsagVz.rbuz,grrrjg8j]

Qugfsabgwovtgkszgwvzbgwzkwuzot,g.sbgqrbmvogvagvgwvzbgkpgvg.kzzkqu 
wuzaklvxu;gqugfsabglkbgfvcugzuvoguaauliugkpgvgfvacgvl gksbqvz 
vwwuvzvliu;glkzgkpgvgabzvlxugwuzakl,gkszgkql;gqugivllkbg rabrlxsramgbmu
acrlgpzkfgbmugamrzb:g‘bragulksxmgbkgfuvogbmugpviu,gqrbmksbgfuvorlxgbmu
.zuvabjggRgauugakfugqmkgbzvlapkzfgvl gbzvlas.abvlbrvbugbmufauonuagrlbkgva
fvltgluqgamvwuagvl gluqg.urlxagvagbmutgsl uzbvcugluqgufwoktfulba;gvl gqmk
abzsbgvl gpsfugunulgbkgbmugmuvzbgvl gornuz,gvl givzztgbmurzgabvbugvoklx
qrbmgbmufgunulgbkgbmugiokau-abkko:gRgivllkbgfvcugbmufg rabrlxsramgbmu
avosbvbrklagfv ugbkgbmufauonuagpzkfgbmkaugfv ugbkgbmurzgikffraarkl,gbmurz
bzvrl,gkzgbmurzgfsou:

ggggg“Bvlbsfgaugpkzbslhgwuzfrbbslb,gubrvfgsbglvbszvfg u raivlbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgakgfsimgxrnugbmufauonuagswgbkgpkzbslu,gvagunulgbkgslouvzl
ggggglvbszuj”--EsrlbsagIszbrsa,grrrjg2j]

Bmutgaquoogvl gwsppgswgbmurzgaksoa,gvl gbmurzglvbszvogqvtgkpgawuvcrlx,
viikz rlxgbkgbmugmurxmbgkpgbmurzgfvxrabuzrvogwoviujggBmugFvtkzgkp
.kz uvshgvl gFklbvrxlugmvnugunuzg.uulgbqkg.tgnuztgfvlrpuabgauwvzvbrklj
.uivsaugklugragvlgv nkivbugkzgvgprlvliruz,gmugfsabglkbgrxlkzugbmugclvnuzt
bmuzugragrlgasimgivoorlxa;gvlgmkluabgfvlgraglkbgviikslbv.ougpkzgbmugnriu
kzgv.asz rbtgkpgmragufwoktfulb,gvl gksxmbglkbgklgbmvbgviikslbgzupsaugbk
bvcugbmugivoorlxgswklgmrf:g‘bragbmugsavxugkpgmragikslbzt,gvl gbmuzugra
fklutgbkg.ugxkbg.tgrb;gvgfvlgfsabgornug.tgbmugqkzo ;gvl gfvcugmrag.uabgkp
rb,gasimgvagrbgrajgg.sbgbmugys xfulbgkpgvlgufwuzkzgksxmbgbkg.ugv.knugmra
ufwrzu,gvl gauugvl giklar uzgrbgvagvgpkzurxlgviir ulb;gvl gmugksxmbgbk
clkqgmkqgbkgulyktgmrfauopgvwvzbgpzkfgrb,gvl gbkgikffslrivbugmrfauopgva
Yvfuagvl gWubuz,gbkgmrfauop,gvbgvoogunulbaj

Rgivllkbgulxvxugftauopgakg uuwgvl gakgulbrzu;gqmulgftgqroogxrnuagfugbk
vltbmrlx,g‘braglkbgqrbmgakgnrkoulbgvlgk.orxvbrklgbmvbgftgys xfulbgra
rlpuibu gqrbmgrbjggRlgbmugwzuaulbg.zkroagkpgbmragcrlx kf,gftgkqlgrlbuzuab
mvaglkbgfv ugfug.orl gbkgbmugovs v.ougesvorbruagkpgkszgv nuzavzrua,glkz
bkgbmkaugbmvbgvzugzuwzkvimv.ougrlgbmkaugfulgkpgkszgwvzbtjggKbmuzagv kzu
voogkpgbmurzgkqlgar u;gpkzgftgwvzb,gRg kglkbgakgfsimgvaguhisaugfkab
bmrlxagrlgbmkaugkpgfrlu:gvgxkk gqkzcgmvaglunuzgbmugqkzabgxzviugqrbmgfu
pkzg.urlxgfv ugvxvrlabgfujggBmugclkbgkpgbmugiklbzknuzatguhiuwbu ,gRgmvnu
voqvtagcuwbgftauopgrlguesvlrfrbtgvl gwszugrl rppuzuliu:

ggggg“Luesuguhbzvgluiuaarbvbuag.uoorgwzvuirwssfgk rsfgxuzk;”

ggggg[“Lkzg.uvzgwvzbrisovzgmvbzu g.utkl gbmugluiuaarbruagkpgqvzj”]

pkzgqmrimgRgvfgwouvau gqrbmgftauop;gvl gbmugfkzug.uivsaugRgauugkbmuza
ikffklotgpvrogrlgbmugiklbzvztg rzuibrkljggAsimgvaguhbul gbmurzgvlxuzgvl 
mvbzu g.utkl gbmug rawsbugrlgesuabrkl,gvagfkabgfulg k,gamkqgbmvbgbmut
awzrlxgpzkfgakfugkbmuzgkiivarklgvl gwzrnvbugivsau;gorcugklugqmk,g.urlx
iszu gkpgvlgsoiuz,gmvagtubgvgpunuzgzufvrlrlx,g.tgqmrimgrbgvwwuvzagbmvb
bmugsoiuzgmv gvlkbmuzgfkzugikliuvou g.uxrllrlxjggBmugzuvaklgragbmvbgbmut
vzuglkbgikliuzlu grlgbmugikffklgivsau,g.uivsaugrbgragqksl rlxgbkgbmu
abvbugvl gxuluzvogrlbuzuab;g.sbgvzugklotglubbou g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmurz
wvzbrisovzgikliuzljggBmragragqmtgbmutgvzugakguawuirvootgvlrfvbu ,gvl gbk
vg uxzuugakgpvzg.utkl gysabriugvl gws.origzuvakl:

gggggggggg“Lklgbvfgkflrvgslrnuzar,gesvfguv,gesvugv gesufesugwuzbrlulb,
ggggggggggarlxsorgivzwu.vlbj”

ggggg[“Unuztgklugqvaglkbgakgfsimgvlxztgvxvrlabgbmrlxagrlgxuluzvo,gva
gggggvxvrlabgbmkaugbmvbgwvzbrisovzotgikliuzlgmrfauopj”
gggggg--Ornt,ghhhrnjg36j]

Rgqkso gmvnugbmugv nvlbvxugklgkszgar u;g.sbgrpgrbg.uglkb,gRgamvooglkbgzsl
fv jggRgvfgmuvzbrotgpkzgbmugzrxmbgwvzbt;g.sbgRg kglkbgqvlbgbkg.ugbvcul
lkbriugkpgvagvlguawuirvoguluftgbkgkbmuza,gvl g.utkl gbmugxuluzvogesvzzuoj
Rgfvznuooksaotgimvooulxugbmragnrirksagpkzfgkpgkwrlrkl:g“Mugragkpgbmu
Ouvxsug.uivsaugmugv frzuagbmugxzvirksaluaagkpgFklaruszg ugXsrau;gmugra
vabklramu gvbgbmugCrlxgkpgLvnvzzu’aguluzxt,gbmuzupkzugmugragvgMsxsulkb;
mugprl agbmragbkgavtgkpgbmugfvlluzagkpgbmugcrlx,gmugragbmuzupkzu
au rbrksagrlgmragmuvzbj”ggVl gRg r glkbgxzvlbgbkgbmugfvxrabzvbugmrfauop
bmvbgmug r gquoogrlgikl uflrlxgvg.kkcg.uivsaugrbgmv gwoviu gvgmuzubri
--[Bmuk kzug ug.udvj]--vfklxabgbmug.uabgwkubagkpgbmugbrfujggAmvoogquglkb
 vzugbkgavtgkpgvgbmrupgbmvbgmugmvagvgmvl akfugoux?ggRpgvgqkfvlg.ugv
abzsfwub,gfsabgrbgluu agpkookqgbmvbgamugmvagvgpksogafuoo?gg r gbmutgrl
bmugqrauabgvxuagzunkcugbmugwzks gbrbougkpgIvwrbkorlsagbmutgmv g.upkzu
iklpuzzu gklgFvzisagFvlorsagvagiklauznvbkzgkpgzuorxrklgvl gbmugws.ori
or.uzbt,gvl gabrpougbmugfufkztgkpgmragor.uzvorbt,gmragpuvbagkpgvzfa,gvl 
frorbvztgzuikfwulauagxzvlbu gbkgmragnvoksz,g.uivsaugmu,gvpbuzqvz a
vawrzu gbkgbmugaknuzurxlbt,gbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmugovqagkpgmragikslbzt?
Rpgqugbvcugvgmvbzu gvxvrlabgvlgv nkivbu,gmugqrooglkbg.ugvookqu gbmugluhb
 vtgbkg.uguokesulbjggRgmvnuguoauqmuzugawkculgkpgbmugduvogbmvbgwsamu gkl
qkzbmtgfulgbkgbmugorcugpvsobajggPkzgftgwvzb,gRgivlgavt,g“Asimgvlgklug kua
bmragbmrlxgroo,gvl gvlkbmuzgbmrlxgnrzbsksaotgvl gquooj”ggAkgrlgbmu
wzkxlkabrivbrklgkzgarlrabuzgunulbagkpgvppvrzagbmutgqkso gmvnugunuztgklu
rlgmragwvzbtg.orl gkzgvg.okicmuv ,gvl gbmvbgkszgwuzasvarklgvl gys xfulb
amkso gas.auznuglkbgbzsbm,g.sbgbkgbmugwzkyuibgkpgkszg uarzuajggRgamkso 
zvbmuzgrliorlugbkqvz agbmugkbmuzguhbzufu;gakgfsimgRgpuvzg.urlxgas.kzlu 
.tgftg uarzu;gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmvbgRgvfgvgorbbougbul uzot
 rabzsabpsogkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgqramj

Rgmvnugrlgftgbrfugauulgqkl uzagrlgbmugrl raizuubgvl gwzk rxrksagpvirorbt
kpgwukwougrlgasppuzrlxgbmurzgmkwuagvl g.uorupgbkg.ugou gvl gxknuzlu ,
qmrimgqvtg.uabgwouvau gvl gauznu gbmurzgouv uza,g uawrbugvgmsl zu 
frabvcuagklugswklgvlkbmuz,g uawrbugfuzug zuvfagvl gwmvlbvafajggRglkgfkzu
qkl uzgvbgbmkaugqmkgmvnug.uulg.orl u gvl gau siu g.tgbmugpkkouzruagkp
Vwkooklrsagvl gFvmkfubjggBmurzgaulaugvl gsl uzabvl rlxgvzugv.akosbuot
bvculgvqvtg.tgbmurzgwvaarkl;gbmurzg raizubrklgmvaglkgfkzugvltgkbmuz
imkriugbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgafrouagswklgbmufgvl gulikszvxuagbmurzgivsauj
Rgmv gwzrlirwvootgk.auznu gbmragrlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgkszgrlbuabrlu
 rabufwuza;gbmvbgkbmuz,gqmrimgmvagawzslxgswgarliu,grlgrfrbvbrlx,gmva
aszwvaau grb;g.tgqmrimgRgvfgavbrapru gbmvbgrbgragvgesvorbtgrlauwvzv.ou
pzkfgwkwsovzguzzkza;gvpbuzgbmugprzab,gbmvbgzkooa,gkwrlrklag zrnugklgklu
vlkbmuzgorcugqvnuagqrbmgbmugqrl :gvgfvlgraglkbgvgfuf.uzgkpgbmug.k t,grp
rbg.ugrlgmragwkquzgbkgpkzavcugrb,gvl grpgmug kglkbgzkoogbmugikffklgqvtj
.sb,g ks.bouaa,gbmutgqzklxgbmugysabgar ugqmulgbmutgxkgv.ksbgbkgvaarabgrb
qrbmgpzvs ;gRgmvnugunuzg.uulgvxvrlabgbmvbgwzvibriu:g‘bragklotgprbgbkgqkzc
swklgquvcgmuv a;gpkzgbmugaksl ,gbmuzugvzugaszuzgvl gfkzugmkluabgqvtagbk
cuuwgswgbmurzgikszvxugvl gbkguhisaugv nuzaugviir ulbaj

Muvnulglunuzgavqgvgxzuvbuzgvlrfkarbtgbmvlgbmvbg.ubqrhbgIvuavzgvl gWkfwut,
lkzgunuzgamvoo;gvl gtubgRgk.auznu,gfubmrlca,grlgbmkaug.zvnugaksoa,
vgxzuvbgfk uzvbrklgbkqvz agklugvlkbmuz:grbgqvagvgyuvoksatgkpgmklkszgvl 
ikffvl ,gqmrimg r glkbgbzvlawkzbgbmufgbkgvgpszrksagvl grl raizuubgmvbzu ,
vl gqvagqrbmksbgfvorxlrbtgvl g ubzvibrkl:grlgbmurzgmkbbuabguhwokrbagswkl
klugvlkbmuz,gRg raiknuzgakfugzufvrlagkpgzuawuibgvl gxkk -qroo:gvl gvf
bmuzupkzugkpgkwrlrklgbmvb,gmv ,grbg.uulgwkaar.ou,guvimgkpgbmufgqkso 
zvbmuzgmvnug klugmrag.sarluaagqrbmksbgbmugzsrlgkpgbmugkbmuzgbmvlgqrbmgrbj
BvcuglkbriugmkqgfsimgkbmuzqraugfvbbuzagqulbgqrbmgFvzrsagvl gAtoovj

Qugfsabglkbgwzuirwrbvbugkszauonuagakgmuv oklxgvpbuzgkszgvppuibrklagvl 
rlbuzuabajggVa,gqmulgRgqvagtkslx,gRgkwwkau gftauopgbkgbmugwzkxzuaagkp
oknugqmrimgRgwuziurnu gbkgv nvliugbkkgpvabgswklgfu,gvl gmv gvgivzugouab
rbgamkso gvbgovabg.uikfugakgwouvarlxgvagbkgpkziu,givwbrnvbu,gvl gqmkoot
zu siugfugbkgrbagfuzit:gakgRg kgbmugavfugswklgvoogkbmuzgkiivarklagqmuzu
ftgqroogragzsllrlxgklgqrbmgbkkgqvzfgvlgvwwubrbujggRgouvlgkwwkarbugbkgbmu
ar ugrbgrliorluagbk;gvagRgprl grbgxkrlxgbkgwoslxugvl gfvcugrbauopg zslc
qrbmgrbagkqlgqrlu;gRgunv uglkszramrlxgrbagwouvaszugakgpvz,gbmvbgRgivllkb
zuiknuzgrbgqrbmksbgrlprlrbugokaajggAksoagbmvb,gbmzksxmgbmurzgkql
abswr rbt,gklotg raiuzlgbmrlxag.tgmvonua,gmvnugbmragmvwwrluaa,gbmvbgbmut
afvzbgouaagqrbmgmszbpsogbmrlxa:g‘bragvgawrzrbsvogouwzkatgbmvbgmvagakfu
amkqgkpgmuvobm,gvl gasimgvgmuvobmgvagwmrokakwmtg kuaglkbgvobkxubmuz
iklbufl;g.sbgtubgqugmvnuglkgzuvaklgbkgivoogrbgqra kf,gvagqugkpbulg kj
Vl gvpbuzgbmragfvlluzgakfugklugvlirulbotgfkicu g rkxuzrua,gqmk,grlgbmu
 uwbmgkpgqrlbuzgvl gesrbuglvcu ,gqulbguf.zvirlxgvlgrfvxugkpgalkqgpkzgv
bzrvogkpgmragul szvliu:gbmugkbmuzgauurlxgmrfgrlgbmragwkarbrkl,g“Vzbgbmks
lkqgnuztgiko ?”ggavr gmujgg“Lkbgvbgvoo,”gzuworu g rkxuluajgg“Qmt,gbmul,”
gwszasu gbmugkbmuz,g“qmvbg rpprisobgvl guhufwovztgbmrlxg kabgbmksgbmrlc
bmksg kuabgrlguf.zvirlxgbmvbgalkq?”ggBkgbvcugvgbzsugfuvaszugkpgiklabvlit,
klugfsabgluiuaavzrotgclkqgqmvbgbmugasppuzrlxgraj

.sbgaksoagbmvbgvzugbkgfuubgqrbmgv nuzaugunulbagvl gbmugrlyszruagkp
pkzbslu,grlgbmurzg uwbmgvl gamvzwluaa,gbmvbgvzugbkgqurxmgvl gbvabugbmuf
viikz rlxgbkgbmurzglvbszvogqurxmbgvl g.rbbuzluaa,goubgasimgamkqgbmurz
acroogrlgvnkr rlxgbmugivsauagvl g rnuzbrlxgbmug.okqjggQmvbg r gCrlxgIkbta
 k?ggMugwvr gor.uzvootgpkzgbmugzrimgvl g.uvsbrpsognuaauogbmvbgmv g.uul
wzuaulbu gbkgmrf,g.sb,gauurlxgrbgqvaguhiuu rlxotg.zrbbou,gmugrffu rvbuot
.zkcugrbg.ubrfua,gbkgwzunulbgakguvatgvgfvbbuzgkpg rawouvaszugvxvrlabgmra
auznvlbajgRlgorcugfvlluz,gRgmvnugqroorlxotgvnkr u gvoogiklpsarklgrlgft
vppvrza,gvl glunuzgiknubu gbkgmvnugftguabvbugiklbrxsksagbkgbmkaugkpgft
zuovbrkla,gvl gasimgqrbmgqmkfgRgiknubu gvgabzribgpzrul amrw;gpkzgbmuliu
fvbbuzgkpgslcrl luaagvl gpvoorlxgksbgkpbulgwzkiuu ajggRgpkzfuzotgoknu 
mvdvz ksagxvfuagkpgivz agvl g riu;g.sbgmvnugoklxgarliugoupbgbmufgkpp,
klotgpkzgbmragzuvaklgbmvb,gqrbmgqmvbunuzgxkk gvrzgRgivzzru gftgokaaua,
Rgikso glkbgmuowgpuuorlxgnuhu gqrbmrljggVgfvlgkpgmklksz,gqmkgksxmbgbkg.u
bksimrotgaular.ougkpgbmugorugkzgkpgvlgrlasob,gvl gqmkgraglkbgbkgbvcugv
aiszntguhisaugpkzgavbrapvibrkl,gamkso gvnkr gkiivarklagkpg rawsbuj
Rgamslgfuovlimkot,gizv..u gful,gvagRgqkso gbmugwovxsu;gvl grlgfvbbuzagR
ivllkbgbvocgkpgqrbmksbgufkbrklgvl gikliuzlgRglunuzgfu  ou,grpglkb
ikfwuoou g.tgftg sbt:

ggggggggggggggg“Fuorsaglklgrlirwrulb,gesvfg uarlulbj”

ggggg[“Bmutgmv g.ubbuzglunuzgbkg.uxrlgbmvlgbkgmvnugbkg uarabj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g72j]

Bmugaszuabgqvt,gbmuzupkzu,gragbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopg.upkzumvl gpkz
kiivarklaj

Rgclkqgnuztgquoogbmvbgakfugqraugfulgmvnugbvculgvlkbmuzgqvt,gvl gmvnuglkb
puvzu gbkgxzvwwougvl gulxvxugbkgbmugsbfkabgswklgaunuzvogas.yuibagbmuau
vzugiklpr ulbgkpgbmurzgkqlgabzulxbm,gsl uzgqmrimgbmutgwzkbuibgbmufauonua
rlgvoogroogasiiuaaua,gfvcrlxgbmurzgwvbruliugqzuabougvl giklbul gqrbm
 ravabuz:

ggggggggggggggg“Nuosbgzswua,gnvabsfgesvugwzk rbgrlgvueskz,
gggggggggggggggK.nrvgnulbkzsfgpszrra,guhwkabvesugwklbk,
gggggggggggggggNrfgislibvfgvbesugfrlvagwuzpuzbgikuoresugfvzraesu;
gggggggggggggggRwavgrffkbvgfvlulaj”

ggggg[“Vagvgzkic,gqmrimgwzkyuibagrlbkgbmugnvabgkiuvl,guhwkau gbkgbmu
gggggpszrksagqrl agvl gbmugzvxrlxgauv,g upruagbmugpkziugvl gfulviuagkp
gggggactgvl gauv,grbauopgslamvculj”--Nrzxro,gVUlur ,ghjg693j]

Oubgsaglkbgvbbufwbgbmuauguhvfwoua;gqugamvooglunuzgikfugswgbkgbmufjggBmut
aubgbmufauonuagzuakosbuot,gvl gqrbmksbgvxrbvbrkl,gbkg.umko gbmugzsrlgkp
bmurzgikslbzt,gqmrimgwkaauaau gvl gikffvl u gvoogbmurzgqroo:gbmragragbkk
fsim,gvl gbkkgmvz gvgbvacgpkzgkszgikffkluzgaksoajggIvbkgxvnugswgbmu
lk.ouabgorpugbmvbgunuzgqvagswklgbmragviikslb;gqugfuvluzgawrzrbagfsabgpot
pzkfgbmugabkzfgvagpvzgvagqugivl;gqugfsabgwzknr ugpkzgaulbrfulb,gvl glkb
pkzgwvbruliu,gvl gunv ugbmug.okqagqugivllkbgfuubjggDulk,gauurlx
Imzufklr ua,gvgtkslxgfvlgqmkfgmugoknu ,g zvqgluvzgbkgarbg kqlg.tgmrf,
as  ulotgabvzbu gsw;gvl gIouvlbmuag ufvl rlxgkpgmrfgbmugzuvaklgqmtgmug r 
ak,g“Rgmuvz,”gavr gmu,g“bmvbgwmtarirvlaguawuirvootgkz uzgzuwkau,gvl 
pkz.r gufkbrklgrlgvoogbsfkszaj”ggAkizvbuag kuaglkbgavt:g“ kglkbgaszzul uz
bkgbmugimvzfagkpg.uvsbt;gabvl gtkszgxzksl ,gvl g kgtkszgsbfkabgbkgkwwkau
rbj”gg“Potgrb,”gavtagmu;g“amslgbmugprxmbgvl gulikslbuzgkpgrb,gvagkpgv
wkquzpsogwkraklgbmvbg vzbagvl gqksl agvbgvg rabvliuj”ggVl gmragxkk 
 rairwou,gpurxlrlxgkzgzuirbrlx,g.sb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gzvbmuzgzuirbrlxgbmvl
purxlrlx,gbmugzvzugwuzpuibrklagkpgbmugxzuvbgItzsa,gfvcuagmrfg rabzsabpso
kpgmragkqlgabzulxbmgbkgzuarabgbmugimvzfagkpgbmug rnrlug.uvsbtgkpgbmvb
roosabzksagWvlbmuv,gmragivwbrnu,gvl gikffrbbrlxgbmugnrarbrlxgvl gcuuwrlx
muzgbkgvlkbmuz,gqmkgikso glkbgmvnugakgfsimgor.uzbtgvagmrfauopjggVl gbmu
MkotgXmkabgrlgorcugfvlluz:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Luglkagrl sivagrlgbulbvbrklufj”

gggggggggg[“Ouv gsaglkbgrlbkgbufwbvbrklj”--AbjgFvbbmuq,gnrjg13j]

Qug kglkbgwzvtgbmvbgkszgzuvaklgfvtglkbg.ugikf.vbu gvl gknuzikfug.t
ikliswraiuliu,g.sbgbmvbgrbgamkso glkbg.ugakgfsimgvagbzru g.tgrb;gbmvbgqu
amkso glkbg.ug.zksxmbgrlbkgvgabvbugqmuzurlgqugvzugakgfsimgvagbkgasppuz
bmugvwwzkvimua,gakorirbvbrkla,gvl gbufwbvbrklagkpgarl:gvl gqug.uxgkp
VofrxmbtgXk gbkgcuuwgkszgiklairuliuagesrub,gpsootgvl gwuzpuibotg uornuzu 
pzkfgvoogikffuziugkpgunroj

Asimgvagavtgbmvbgbmutgmvnugzuvaklgpkzgbmurzgzunulxrlxgwvaarkl,gkzgvlt
kbmuzgakzbgkpgbzks.ouakfugvxrbvbrklgkpgfrl ,gkpbulgavtgbzsu,gvagbmrlxa
lkqgvzu,g.sbglkbgvagbmutgquzu:gbmutgawuvcgbkgsagqmulgbmugivsauagkpgbmurz
uzzkzgvzug.tgbmufauonuaglkszramu gvl gv nvliu ;g.sbgokkcg.vicqvz --zuivoo
bmuaugivsauagbkgbmurzg.uxrllrlx--vl gbmuzugtksgqroogwsbgbmufgbkgv
lklwosajggQroogbmutgmvnugbmurzgpvsobagouaa,gpkzg.urlxgkpgoklxuz
iklbrlsvliu;gvl gbmvbgkpgvlgslysabg.uxrllrlx,gbmugauesuogivlg.ugysab?
Qmkunuzgamvoog uarzugbmugxkk gkpgmragikslbzt,gvagRg k,gqrbmksbgpzubbrlx
kzgwrlrlxgmrfauop,gqroog.ugbzks.ou ,g.sbgqrooglkbgaqkklgbkgauugrb
bmzuvbulrlxgurbmuzgrbagkqlgzsrl,gkzgvglkgouaagzsrlksagiklbrlsvliu;gwkkz
nuaauo,gbmvbgbmugqvnua,gbmugqrl a,gvl gbmugwrokbgbkaagvl gabuuzgbkgak
iklbzvztg uarxla!

gggggggggggggggggggggggg“Rlgbvfg rnuzavgfvxrabuz
gggggggggggggggggggggggggNulbsagubgsl vgbzvmslbj”

Mugqmkg kuaglkbgxvwugvpbuzgbmugpvnkszgkpgwzrliua,gvagvpbuzgvgbmrlxgmu
ivllkbgornugqrbmksb,g kuaglkbgfsimgikliuzlgmrfauopgvbgbmugiko luaagkp
bmurzgzuiuwbrklgvl gikslbulvliu,glkzgvbgbmugrliklabvlitgkpgbmurzgqrooaj
Mugqmkg kuaglkbg.zkk gknuzgmragimro zulgkzgmragmklkszagqrbmgvgaovnram
wzkwularkl,giuvauaglkbgbkgornugikffk rksaotgulksxmgvpbuzgbmurzgokaajggMu
qmkg kuagxkk gwzrlirwvootgpkzgmragkqlgavbrapvibrklgqrooglkbg.ugfsim
bzks.ou gbkgauugfulgys xugkpgmragvibrklagiklbzvztgbkgmragfuzrbjggV
esvzbuzgkpgvlgksliugkpgwvbruliugqroogwzknr ugaspprirulbotgvxvrlabgasim
rliklnulruliuajggRgprl guvaugrlgbmragzuiurwb,gzu uufrlxgftauopgrlgbmu
.uxrllrlxgvagxkk gimuvwgvagRgivl;gvl gprl gbmvbg.tgbmragfuvlagRgmvnu
uaivwu gfsimgbzks.ougvl gfvltg rpprisobruajggQrbmgnuztgorbbougv kgRgabkw
bmugprzabgavootgkpgftgufkbrkla,gvl gouvnugbmugas.yuibgbmvbg.uxrlagbkg.u
bzks.ouakfug.upkzugrbgbzvlawkzbagfujggMugqmkgabkwaglkbgbmugabvzbgqroo
lunuzg.ugv.ougbkgabkwgbmugikszau;gmugqmkgivllkbgcuuwgbmufgksbgqrooglunuz,
xubgbmufgksbgqmulgbmutgvzugkliugxkbgrl;gvl gmugqmkgivllkbgvzzrnugvbgbmu
.uxrllrlxgqrooglunuzgvzzrnugvbgbmugul gkpgvoojggLkzgqroogmug.uvzgbmugpvoo
qmkgivllkbgasabvrlgbmugamkic:

ggggg“Ubulrfgrwavugaugrfwuooslb,gs.rgaufuogvgzvbrklug raiuaasfguab;
gggggrwavesugar.rgrf.uiroorbvagrl soxub,grlgvobsfesugwzknumrbsz
gggggrfwzs ula,gluigzuwuzrbgokisfgiklarabul rj”

ggggg[“Pkzgbmutgbmzkqgbmufauonuagmuv oklxgqmulgkliugbmutgokaugbmurz
gggggzuvakl;gvl grlprzfrbtgakgpvzgrl soxuagrbauop,gvl gpzkfgqvlbgkp
gggggwzs uliugragivzzru gksbgrlbkg uuwgqvbuz,glkzgprl agvgwoviugbk
gggggamuobuzgrbj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grnjg18j]

Rgvfg.ubrfuagaular.ougkpgbmugorbboug.zuuduagbmvbg.uxrlgbkgarlxgvl 
qmrabougqrbmrl,gpkzuzslluzagkpgbmugabkzf:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Iusgpovfrlvgwzrfv
gggggggggggggggIsfg uwzulavgpzufslbgatonragubgivuivgnkosbvlb
gggggggggggggggFszfszv,gnulbszkaglvsbragwzk ulbrvgnulbkaj”

ggggg[“Vagbmug.zuudua,gwulbgrlgbmugqkk a,gprzabgaul gksbg soogfszfsza,
gggggvllkslirlxgbmugvwwzkvimgkpgqrl agbkgfvzrluzaj”--VUlur ,ghjg97j]

MkqgkpbulgmvnugRg klugftauopgvgfvlrpuabgrlysabriugbkgvnkr gbmugmvdvz gkp
mvnrlxgtubgvgqkzaug klugfug.tgbmugys xua,gvpbuzgvlgvxugkpgnuhvbrkla,
 rzbtgvl gnrougwzvibriua,gfkzugulufruagbkgftglvbszugbmvlgprzugkzgbmu
zvic?

ggggg“Iklnulrbgvgorbr.sa,gesvlbsfgoriub,gubgluairkgvlgwvsokgwosagubrvf
gggggesvfgoriub,gv.mkzzulbufguaau:guabgulrfglklgfk kgor.uzvou,gwvsososf
ggggglkllslesvfg ugaskgyszug uiu uzu,gau grlbuz sfgubrvfgpzsibskasfj”

ggggg[“Vgfvlgamkso gv.mkzgovqasrbagvagfsimgvagmugfvt,gvl gRgclkqglkb
gggggqmubmuzglkbgakfubmrlxgfkzu;gpkzg‘braglkbgklotgor.uzvo,g.sbgakfubrfua
gggggvoakgv nvlbvxuksa,gbkk,gvgorbbougbkgzuiu ugpzkfgklu’agzrxmbj
ggggg--“Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grrjg18j]

Quzugqugqrau,gqugksxmbgbkgzuykriugvl g.kvab,gvagRgklug vtgmuvz gvgtkslx
xulboufvlgkpgvgxkk gpvfrotgnuztgrllkiulbotg k,gbmvbgmragfkbmuzgmv gokab
muzgivsau,gvagrpgrbgmv g.uulgvgiksxm,gvgpunuz,gkzgakfubmrlxgnuzt
bzks.ouakfugbkgcuuwjggUnulgbmugpvnkszagbmvbgpkzbslugfrxmbgmvnugxrnulgfu
bmzksxmgzuovbrklamrwgkzgviesvrlbvliugqrbmgbmkaugqmkgmvnugaknuzurxl
vsbmkzrbtgrlgbmkaugvppvrza,gRgmvnugnuztgiklairulbrksaotgvl gnuzt
ivzupsootgvnkr u gufwoktrlxgbmufgbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgkbmuza,gvl gkp
v nvlirlxgftgwzubularklagv.knugbmurzgbzsugzrxmbjggRlgprlu,gRgmvnugakgfsim
wzunvrou g.tgftgul uvnkszag(vl gmvwwrotgRgfvtgavtgrb)gbmvbgRgvfgbkgbmra
 vtgvgnrzxrlgpzkfgvoogasrbagrlgovq;gbmksxmgRgmvnugmv gnuztgpvrzgkppuza
fv ugfu,gvl gqrbmgnuztgysabgbrbou,gqkso gRgmvnugmuvzculu gbkgbmuf,gvl gv
nrzxrlgpzkfgesvzzuoagbkkjggRgmvnugvofkabgwvaau gknuzgvgoklxgorpugqrbmksb
vltgkppuliugkpgfkfulb,gurbmuzgvibrnugkzgwvaarnu,gkzgqrbmksbgunuzgmuvzrlx
vgqkzaugqkz gbmvlgftgkqlglvfu:gvgzvzugpvnkszgkpgMuvnulj

Kszgxzuvbuabgvxrbvbrklagmvnugzr risoksagawzrlxagvl givsaua:gqmvbgzsrlg r 
kszgovabg scugkpg.szxsl tgzslgrlbkgv.ksbgvgivzbokv gkpgamuuwacrla!
Vl gqvaglkbgbmugxzvnrlxgkpgvgauvogbmugprzabgvl gwzrlirwvogivsaugkpgbmu
xzuvbuabgikffkbrklgbmvbgbmragfvimrlugkpgbmugqkzo gunuzgsl uzqulb?
--[Bmugirnrogqvzg.ubquulgFvzrsagvl gAtoov;gauugWosbvzim’agOrpugkpgFvzrsa,
ijg3j]--pkzgWkfwutgvl gIvuavzgquzug.sbgbmugkppaubagvl giklbrlsvbrklgkp
bmugbqkgkbmuza:gvl gRgmvnugrlgftgbrfugauulgbmugqrauabgmuv agrlgbmra
crlx kfgvaauf.ou gqrbmgxzuvbgiuzufklt,gvl gvbgbmugws.origuhwulau,gv.ksb
bzuvbruagvl gvxzuufulba,gkpgqmrimgbmugbzsug uirarkl,grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,
v.akosbuotg uwul u gswklgbmugov rua’giv.rlubgiksliro,gvl gbmugrliorlvbrkl
kpgakfug.rbgkpgvgqkfvlj

Bmugwkubagnuztgquoogsl uzabkk gbmragqmulgbmutgwsbgvoogXzuuiugvl gVarvgbk
przugvl gaqkz gv.ksbgvlgvwwoujggOkkcgqmtgbmvbgfvlgmvdvz agmragorpugvl 
mklkszgswklgbmugpkzbslugkpgmragzvwruzgvl g vxxuz;goubgmrfgviesvrlbgtks
qrbmgbmugkiivarklgkpgbmugesvzzuo;gmugivllkbg kgrbgqrbmksbg.osamrlx:gbmu
kiivarklgragakgr ougvl gpzrnkoksaj

Vgorbbougbmrlxgqroogulxvxugtksgrlgrb;g.sbg.urlxgkliuguf.vzcu ,gvoogbmu
ikz ag zvq;gxzuvbgwzknrarklagvzugbmulgzuesrzu ,gfkzugmvz gvl gfkzu
rfwkzbvlbjggMkqgfsimguvaruzgragrbglkbgbkgulbuzgrlgbmvlgrbgragbkgxubgksb?
Lkqgqugamkso gwzkiuu giklbzvztgbkgbmugzuu ,gqmrim,gvbgrbagprzab
awzrlxrlx,gwzk siuagvgoklxgvl gabzvrxmbgamkkb,g.sbgvpbuzqvz a,gvagrp
brzu gvl gksbgkpg.zuvbm,grbgzslagrlbkgbmricgvl gpzuesulbgykrlbagvl 
clkba,gvagakgfvltgwvsauagqmrimg ufklabzvbugbmvbgrbgmvaglkgfkzugrbagprzab
nrxkszgvl gprzfluaa;g‘bquzug.ubbuzgbkg.uxrlgxulbotgvl giko ot,gvl gbk
cuuwgklu’ag.zuvbmgvl gnrxkzksaguppkzbagpkzgbmugmurxmbgvl gabzuaagkpgbmu
.sarluaajggQugxsr ugvppvrzagrlgbmurzg.uxrllrlxa,gvl gmvnugbmufgrlgkszgkql
wkquz;g.sbgvpbuzqvz a,gqmulgbmutgvzugkliugvbgqkzc,g‘bragbmutgbmvbgxsr u
vl gxknuzlgsa,gvl gqugvzugbkgpkookqgbmufj

Tubg kgRglkbgfuvlgbkgavtgbmvbgbmragikslauogmvag raimvzxu gfugkpgvoo
 rpprisobt,gvl gbmvbgRgmvnuglkbgkpbulgmv gulksxmgbkg kgbkgisz.gvl 
zuabzvrlgftgwvaarkla;gbmutgvzuglkbgvoqvtagbkg.ugxknuzlu gviikz rlxgbkgbmu
fuvaszugkpgkiivarkla,gvl gkpbulgmvnugbmurzgulbzruagnuztgamvzwgvl 
nrkoulbjgg.sbgabroogxkk gpzsrbgvl gwzkprbgfvtgbmuliug.ugzuvwu ;guhiuwb
pkzgbmkaugqmkgrlgquoo- krlxgvzuglkbgavbrapru gqrbmgvltg.uluprb,grp
zuwsbvbrklg.ugqvlbrlx;gpkz,grlgbzsbm,gasimgvlguppuibgraglkbgnvosu g.sbg.t
unuztgklugbkgmrfauop;gtksgvzug.ubbuzgiklbulbu ,g.sbglkbgfkzuguabuufu ,
auurlxgtksgzupkzfu gtkszauopg.upkzugtksgxkbgrlbkgbmugqmrzogkpgbmug vliu,
kzgbmvbgbmugwzknkivbrnugfvbbuzgqvagrlgarxmbjggTubglkbgrlgbmragklot,g.sb
rlgvoogkbmuzg sbruagkpgorpugvoak,gbmugqvtgkpgbmkaugqmkgvrfgvbgmklkszgra
nuztg rppuzulbgpzkfgbmvbgbmutgwzkiuu g.t,gqmkgwzkwkaugbkgbmufauonuagkz uz
vl gzuvakljggRgprl gakfugqmkgzvamotgvl gpszrksaotgzsamgrlbkgbmugorabagvl 
ikkogrlgbmugikszaujggVagWosbvzimgavta,gbmvbgbmkaugqmk,gbmzksxmgpvoau
amvfu,gvzugakpbgvl gpvirougbkgxzvlbgqmvbunuzgrag uarzu gkpgbmuf,gvzu
vpbuzqvz agvagpvirougbkg.zuvcgbmurzgqkz gvl gbkgzuivlb;gakgmugqmkgulbuza
orxmbotgrlbkgvgesvzzuogragvwbgbkgxkgvagorxmbotgksbgkpgrbjggBmugavfu
 rpprisobtgbmvbgcuuwagfugpzkfgulbuzrlxgrlbkgrb,gqkso ,gqmulgkliugmkbgvl 
ulxvxu grlgesvzzuo,grlirbugfugbkgfvrlbvrlgrbgqrbmgxzuvbgk.abrlvitgvl 
zuakosbrkljgg‘Bragbmugbtzvlltgkpgisabkf;gqmulgvgfvlgragkliugulxvxu ;gmu
fsabgxkgbmzksxmgqrbmgrb,gkzg rujgg“Sl uzbvcugikkoot,”gavr g.rva,
“.sbgwszasugqrbmgvz kszj”ggPkzgqvlbgkpgwzs uliu,gfulgpvoogrlbkgqvlbgkp
ikszvxu,gqmrimgragabroogfkzugrlbkouzv.ouj

Fkabgviikffk vbrklagkpgbmugesvzzuoagkpgbmuaug vtagkpgkszagvzugamvfupso
vl gpvoau;gqugklotgauucgbkgavnugvwwuvzvliua,gvl grlgbmugfuvlbrfug.ubzvt
vl g ravnkqgkszgbzsugrlbulbrkla;gqugavonugknuzgbmugpvibjggQugclkqgnuzt
quoogmkqgqugavr gbmugbmrlx,gvl grlgqmvbgaulaugqugawkcugrb,gvl gbmu
ikfwvltgclkqgrb,gvl gkszgpzrul agqmkfgqugmvnugqramu gbkgfvcugaular.ougkp
kszgv nvlbvxu,gsl uzabvl grbgquoogulksxmgbkk:g‘bragvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgksz
pzvlcluaagvl gkpgbmugmklkszgkpgkszgikszvxu,gbmvbgqug rakqlgkszgbmksxmba,
vl gauucgzupsxugrlgpvoarbrua,gbkgfvcugfvbbuzagswjggQugxrnugkszauonuagbmu
oru,gbkguhisaugbmugorugqugmvnugxrnulgbkgvlkbmuzjggTksgvzuglkbgbkgiklar uz
rpgtkszgqkz gkzgvibrklgfvtgv frbgkpgvlkbmuzgrlbuzwzubvbrkl;g‘bragtkszgkql
bzsugvl garliuzugrlbuzwzubvbrkl,gtkszgzuvogfuvlrlxgrlgqmvbgtksgavr gkz
 r ,gbmvbgtksgvzugbmuliupkzqvz gbkgfvrlbvrl,gqmvbunuzgrbgikabgtksjggFul
awuvcgbkgtkszgnrzbsugvl giklairuliu,gqmrimgvzuglkbgbmrlxagbkg.ugwsbgsl uz
vgfvac;goubgsagouvnugbmuaugwrbrpsogqvtagvl guhwu rulbagbkgbmugysxxouzagkp
bmugovqjggBmuguhisauagvl gzuwvzvbrklagbmvbgRgauugunuztg vtgfv ugvl gxrnul
bkgzuwvrzgrl raizubrkl,gauufgbkgfugfkzugaivl voksagbmvlgbmugrl raizubrkl
rbauopjggRbgquzug.ubbuzgbkgvppzklbgtkszgv nuzavztgvgauikl gbrfugbmvlgbk
kppul gtkszauopg.tgxrnrlxgmrfgakgslfvlotgvgavbrapvibrkljggTksgmvnug.zvnu 
mrfgrlgtkszgmuvbgvl gvlxuz,gvl gtksgqkso gpovbbuzgvl gvwwuvaugmrfgrlgtksz
ikkouzgvl g.ubbuzgaulau;gvl g.tgbmvbgfuvlagovtgtkszauopgokquzgvl gvbgmra
puub,gqmkfg.upkzugtksgwzubul u gbkgknuzbkwjggRg kglkbgprl gvltbmrlxgv
xulboufvlgivlgavtgakgnrirksagrlgmrfgvagslavtrlxgqmvbgmugmvagavr gra
rlpvfksa,gqmulgbkgslavtgrbgragvsbmkzrbvbrnuotguhbzvibu gpzkfgmrf;
pkzvafsimgvagk.abrlvitgragfkzuguhisav.ougrlgvgfvlgkpgmklkszgbmvl
wsaroovlrfrbtjggWvaarklagvzugvaguvatgpkzgfugbkgunv u,gvagbmutgvzugmvz 
pkzgfugbkgfk uzvbu:

gggggggggg“Uhairl slbszgpvirorsagvffk,gesvfgbufwuzvlbszj”

ggggg[“Bmutgvzugfkzuguvarotgbkg.uguzv rivbu gbmvlgxknuzlu j”]

Mugqmkgivllkbgvbbvrlgbmuglk.ougAbkrivogrfwvaar.rorbt,goubgmrfgauiszu
mrfauopgrlgbmug.kakfgkpgbmragwkwsovzgabkor rbtgkpgfrlu;gqmvbgbmut
wuzpkzfu g.tgnrzbsu,gRgrlszugftauopgbkg kg.tgbufwuzvfulbjggBmugfr  ou
zuxrklgmvz.kszagabkzfagvl gbufwuaba;gbmugbqkguhbzufua,gkpgwmrokakwmuza
vl gwuvavlba,gikliszgrlgbzvlesroorbtgvl gmvwwrluaa:

ggggggggggggggg“Puorh,gesrgwkbsrbgzuzsfgikxlkaiuzugivsava,
gggggggggggggggVbesugfubsagkfluagubgrluhkzv.rougpvbsf
gggggggggggggggAs.yuirbgwu r.sa,gabzuwrbsfesugVimuzklbragvnvzr!
gggggggggggggggPkzbslvbsagubgroou,g ukagesrglknrbgvxzuabua,
gggggggggggggggWvlvesu,gAtonvlsfesugauluf,gLtfwmvaesugakzkzua!”

ggggg[“Mvwwtgragmugqmkgikso g raiknuzgbmugivsauagkpgbmrlxa,gvl gwoviu
gggggsl uzgmragpuubgvoogpuvzagvl grluhkzv.ougpvbu,gvl gbmugaksl gkp
gggggzvwvirksagVimuzkl:gmugrag.ouabgqmkgclkqagbmugikslbztgxk a,gvl gWvl,
gggggvl gko gAtonvlsa,gvl gbmugarabuzgltfwmaj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrjg490j]

Bmug.rzbmagkpgvoogbmrlxagvzugquvcgvl gbul uz;gvl gbmuzupkzugqugamkso 
mvnugkszgutuagrlbulbgklg.uxrllrlxa;gpkzgvagqmul,grlgrbagrlpvlit,gbmu
 vlxuzgraglkbgwuziurnu ,gakgqmulgrbgragxzkqlgsw,gbmugzufu tgragvagorbbou
bkg.ugpksl jggRgmv gunuztg vtgulikslbuzu gvgfroorklgkpgizkaaua,gmvz uzgbk
 rxuabgrlgbmugwzkxzuaagkpgvf.rbrkl,gbmvlgrbgmvag.uulgmvz gpkzgfugbkgisz.
bmuglvbszvogwzkwularklgbmvbgrliorlu gfugbkgrb:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Yszugwuzmkzzsr
ggggggggggggggggggggOvbmgiklawrissfgbkoouzugnuzbriufj”

gggggggggg[“Rgunuzgysabotgpuvzu gbkgzvraugftgmuv gbkkgmrxmj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,rrrjg16,g18j]

Voogws.origvibrklagvzugas.yuibgbkgsliuzbvrlgvl gnvzrksagrlbuzwzubvbrkla;
pkzgbkkgfvltgmuv agys xugkpgbmufjggAkfugavtgkpgbmragirnrigufwoktfulbgkp
frlug(vl gRgvfgqroorlxgbkgavtgvgqkz gkzgbqkgv.ksbgrb,glkbgbmvbgrbgra
qkzbmgakgfsim,g.sbgbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgftgfvlluzagrlgasimgbmrlxa),gbmvb
Rgmvnug.umvnu gftauopgrlgrbgvagvgfvlgqmkgragbkkgaswrlugvl gkpgvgovlxsr 
bufwuzvfulb;gvl gbmutgmvnugakfugikokszgpkzgqmvbgbmutgavtjggRgul uvnkszu 
bkgcuuwgftgfrl gvl gftgbmksxmbagrlgzuwkau;

gggggggggg“Isfgaufwuzglvbszv,gbsfgubrvfgvubvbugyvfgesrubsa;”

gggggggggg[“Vag.urlxgvoqvtagesrubg.tglvbszu,gakgvoakglkqg.tgvxuj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugWubrbjgIklasoj,gijg2j]

vl grpgbmutgakfubrfuagovamgksbgswklgakfugzs ugvl gaular.ougrfwzuaarkl,
‘bragrlgbzsbmgqrbmksbgftgv nriujggTubgpzkfgbmraglvbszvogmuvnrluaagkp
frlu,gfulgksxmbglkbgbkgiklios ugvgbkbvogrlv.rorbtgrlgfug(pkzgqvlbgkpgivzu
vl gqvlbgkpgaulaugvzugbqkgnuztg rppuzulbgbmrlxa),gvl gfsimgouaagvlt
slcrl luaagkzgrlxzvbrbs ugbkqvz agbmvbgikzwkzvbrklgqmkgufwoktu gbmu
sbfkabgfuvlagbmutgmv grlgbmurzgwkquzgbkgk.orxugfu,g.kbmg.upkzugbmutgcluq
fugvl gvpbuz;gvl gbmutg r gfsimgfkzugpkzgfugrlgimkkarlxgfugvluqgbmvlgrl
iklpuzzrlxgbmvbgmklkszgswklgfugvbgprzabjggRgqramgbmufgvoogrfvxrlv.ou
xkk ;gvl gvaaszu otgmv gkiivarklg.uul,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgqkso gmvnu
awvzu gpkzgbmurzgauznriu;gRg r gpkzgbmufgvagRgqkso gmvnug klugpkzgftauopj
‘Bragvgxkk ,gqvzorcu,gvl gxuluzksagwukwou,g.sbgivwv.ougkpgk.u ruliugvl 
 rairworlu,gvl gkpgqmkfgbmug.uabgsaugfvtg.ugfv u,grpgquoogxsr u jggBmut
avtgvoakgbmvbgftgv frlrabzvbrklgwvaau gknuzgqrbmksbgouvnrlxgvltgfvzcgkz
bzviujggXkk !ggBmutgfkzuknuzgviisaugftgiuaavbrklgrlgvgbrfugqmulgunuzt.k t
vofkabgqvagiklnribu gkpg krlxgbkkgfsimjggRgvfgrfwvbrulbgbkg.ug krlxgqmuzu
ftgqroogawszagfugkl;g.sbgbmragrbauopgragvlguluftgbkgwuzaunuzvliujggOub
mrfgqmkgqroogfvcugsaugkpgfugviikz rlxgbkgftgkqlgqvt,gufwoktgfugrlgvppvrza
qmuzugnrxkszgvl gor.uzbtgvzugzuesrzu ,gqmuzugvg rzuib,gamkzb,gvl ,
fkzuknuz,gvgmvdvz ksagikl sibgvzugluiuaavzt;gRgfvtg kgakfubmrlx;g.sbgrp
rbgfsabg.ugoklx,gas.bou,gov.kzrksa,gvzbrprirvogvl grlbzrivbu,gmugmv 
.ubbuzgivoogrlgakfu.k tguoaujggVoogrfwkzbvlbgkppriuagvzuglkbgluiuaavzrot
 rpprisob:gRgivfugwzuwvzu gbkg kgakfuqmvbgzksxmuzgqkzc,gmv gbmuzug.uul
xzuvbgkiivarkl;gpkzgrbgragrlgftgwkquzgbkg kgakfubmrlxgfkzugbmvlgRg k,gkz
bmvlgRgoknugbkg kjggRg r glkb,gbkgftgclkqou xu,gkfrbgvltbmrlxgbmvbgft
 sbtgzuvootgzuesrzu jggRguvarotgpkzxkbgbmkaugkppriuagbmvbgvf.rbrklgfrhua
qrbmg sbtgvl gwvoorvbuagqrbmgrbagbrbou;gbmuaugvzugbmutgbmvb,gpkzgbmugfkab
wvzb,gproogbmugutuagvl guvza,gvl gxrnugfulgbmugfkabgavbrapvibrkl;glkbgbmu
bmrlxg.sbgbmugvwwuvzvliugiklbulbagbmuf;grpgbmutgmuvzglkglkrau,gbmutgbmrlc
fulgaouuwjggFtgmsfkszgraglkgpzrul gbkgbsfsob;gRgikso gvwwuvaugvgikffkbrkl
qrbmksbgikffkbrkl,gvl gimvabraugvg rakz uzgqrbmksbg.urlxgftauop
 rakz uzot;grpgRgabvl grlgluu gkpgvlxuzgvl grlpovffvbrkl,gRg.kzzkqgrb,
vl gwsbgrbgkljggFtgfvlluzagvzugovlxsr ,gzvbmuzgpvrlbgbmvlgamvzwjggRg k
lkbgikl uflgvgfvxrabzvbugqmkgaouuwa,gwzknr u gbmugwukwougsl uzgmragimvzxu
aouuwgvagquoogvagmu:gbmugovqagrlgbmvbgivaugaouuwgbkkjggPkzgftgwvzb,gR
ikfful gvgxor rlx,gabvr ,gvl garoulbgorpu:

gggggggggg“Luesugas.fraavfgubgv.yuibvf,gluesugauguppuzulbuf;”

gggggggggg[“Lurbmuzgas.yuibgvl gv.yuib,glkzgk.bzsarnuj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ugKpprij,grjg34]

ftgpkzbslugqroogmvnugrbgakjggRgvfg uaiul u gpzkfgvgpvfrotgbmvbgmvagornu 
qrbmksbgosabzugkzgbsfsob,gvl ,gbrfugksbgkpgfrl ,gwvzbrisovzotgvf.rbrksa
kpgvgimvzvibuzgpkzgwzk.rbtj

Kszgwukwouglkqv vtagvzugakg.zu gswgbkg.sabougvl gkabulbvbrkl,gbmvbgxkk 
lvbszu,gfk uzvbrkl,guesv.rorbt,giklabvlit,gvl gasimgorcugesrubgvl 
k.aiszugesvorbrua,gvzuglkgfkzugbmksxmbgklgkzgzuxvz u jggZksxmg.k ruagfvcu
bmufauonuagpuob;gbmugafkkbmgvzugrfwuziuwbr.otgmvl ou :garicluaagragpuob,
muvobmgorbbougkzglkbgvbgvoo;glkgfkzugbmvlgbmugkroagbmvbgpkfulbgsa,grl
ikfwvzraklgkpgbmugwvrlagpkzgqmrimgqugvzugpkfulbu jgg‘Bragvibrlxgpkzgklu’a
wvzbrisovzgzuwsbvbrklgvl gwzkprb,glkbgpkzgbmugws.origxkk ,gbkgzupuzgbmvb
bkg.ug klugrlgbmugws.origaesvzuagqmrimgklugfvtg kgrlgbmugikslirogimvf.uz;
vl gbkglkklg vtgqmvbgfrxmbgmvnug.uulg klugbmuglrxmbg.upkzu;gvl gbkg.u
yuvoksagbkg kgbmvbgmrfauopgqmrimgmragikoouvxsugivlg kgvagquoogvagmu;gak
quzugakfugaszxuklagkpgXzuuiugqklbgbkgwuzpkzfgbmurzgkwuzvbrklagswkl
aivppko agrlgbmugarxmbgkpgbmugwukwou,gbkg zvqgfkzugwzvibriugvl gwzkprbj
Bmutgbmrlcgbmvbgxkk gzsouagivllkbg.ugsl uzabkk g.sbg.tgbmugaksl gkp
bzsfwubjggVf.rbrklgraglkbgvgnriugkpgorbbougwukwou,glkzgkpgasimgfk uab
fuvlagvagkszajggKlugavr gbkgVouhvl uz:g“Tkszgpvbmuzgqroogouvnugtksgv
xzuvbg kfrlrkl,guvatgvl gwvirpri”;gbmragtksbmgqvagufsoksagkpgmragpvbmuz’a
nribkzruagvl gkpgbmugysabriugkpgmragxknuzlfulb;gmugqkso glkbgmvnugulyktu 
bmugufwrzugkpgbmugqkzo grlguvaugvl gwuviujggVoir.rv ua,grlgWovbk,gmv 
zvbmuzg rugtkslx,g.uvsbrpso,gzrim,glk.ou,gvl gouvzlu ,gvl gvoogbmragrl
psooguhiuoouliu,gbmvlgbkgabkwgamkzbgkpgasimgikl rbrkl;gbmrag rauvaugra,
wuzv nulbszu,guhisav.ougrlgakgabzklxgvl gakgpsoogvgaksojggQmulgqzubimu 
vl g qvzpramgorbbougaksoagivykougvl g uiurnugbmufauonua,gvl gbmrlcgbk
awzuv gbmurzgpvfugpkzgmvnrlxgxrnulgzrxmbgys xfulbgrlgvlgvppvrz,gkz
fvrlbvrlu gbmug rairworlugkpgbmugxsvz gkpgvgxvbugkpgbmurzgirbt,gbmugfkzu
bmutgbmrlcgbkguhvobgbmurzgmuv agbmugfkzugbmutgamkqgbmurzgbvroajggBmra
orbbougquoo- krlxgmvaglurbmuzg.k tglkzgorpu;grbgnvlramuagrlgbmugprzab
fksbm,gvl gxkuaglkgpszbmuzgbmvlgpzkfgklugabzuubgbkgvlkbmuzjggBvocgkpgrb
.tgvoogfuvlagbkgtkszgaklgkzgtkszgauznvlb,gorcugbmvbgko gpuookqgqmk,
mvnrlxglkgkbmuzgvs rbkzgkpgmragwzvrauaglkzgvwwzknuzgkpgmragnvoksz,
.kvabu gbkgmragimvf.uzfvr ,giztrlx,g“KgWuzzubu,gqmvbgvg.zvnu,giounuzgfvl
mvabgbmksgpkzgbmtgfvabuz!”ggVbgbmugqkzab,gbvocgkpgrbgbkgtkszauop,gorcugv
ikslirookzgkpgftgviesvrlbvliu,gqmk,gmvnrlxg raxkzxu gvgqmkougivzbpsogkp
ovqgyvzxklgqrbmgxzuvbgmuvbgvl gvagxzuvbgpkoot,gikfrlxgksbgkpgbmugiksliro
imvf.uzgbkgfvcugqvbuz,gqvagmuvz gnuztgikfwoviulbotgbkgfsbbuzg.ubqrhbgmra
buubm:

gggggggggg“Lklglk.ra,g kfrlu,glklglk.ra,gau glkfrlrgbskg vgxokzrvfj”

ggggg[“Lkbgslbkgsa,gKgOkz ,glkbgbkgsa:g.sbgslbkgBmtglvfug.ugbmugxokztj”
gggggg--WavofgihrrrjgRj]

Mugqmkgxubagrbgkpglk.k tguoau,goubgmrfgwvtgmrfauopgksbgkpgmragkqlgwszauj

Pvfugraglkbgwzkabrbsbu gvbgakgimuvwgvgzvbu:gzvzugvl guhufwovztgvibrkla,
bkgqmrimgrbgrag su,gqkso glkbgul szugbmugikfwvltgkpgbmragwzk rxrksagizkq 
kpgwubbtg vrotgwuzpkzfvliuajggFvz.ougfvtguhvobgtkszgbrboua,gvagfsimgva
tksgwouvau,gpkzgmvnrlxgzuwvrzu gvgzk gkpgqvoogkzgiouvlau gvgws.origauquz;
.sbglkbgfulgkpgaulaujggZulkqlg kuaglkbgpkookqgvoogxkk g uu a,grpglknuobt
vl g rpprisobtg.uglkbgiklykrlu ;glvt,gakgfsimgvagfuzuguabuuf,gviikz rlx
bkgbmugAbkria,graglkbg sugbkgunuztgvibrklgbmvbgwzkiuu agpzkfgnrzbsu;glkz
qroogbmutgvookqgmrfg.vzugbmvlcagqmk,gksbgkpgbufwuzvliu,gv.abvrlagpzkfgvl
ko g.ouvz-utu gizklujggBmkaugqmkgmvnugclkqlgbmugv frzv.ougesvorbruagkp
AirwrkgVpzrivlsa,g ultgmrfgbmugxokztgbmvbgWvlvubrsagvbbzr.sbuagbkgmrf,gkp
.urlxgv.abrlulbgpzkfgxrpba,gvagvgxokztglkbgakgfsimgmragvagbmvbgkpgmra
vxujggQugmvnugwouvaszuagasrbv.ougbkgkszgokb;goubgsaglkbgsaszwgbmkaugkp
xzvl usz:gkszgkqlgvzugfkzuglvbszvo,gvl g.tgakgfsimgfkzugakor gvl gaszu,
vagbmutgvzugokquzjggRpglkbgpkzgbmvbgkpgiklairuliu,gtubgvbgouvabgpkz
vf.rbrkl’agavcu,goubgsagzuyuibgvf.rbrkl;goubgsag ra vrlgbmvbgbmrzabgkp
mklkszgvl gzulkql,gakgokqgvl gful rivlb,gbmvbgrbgfvcuagsag.uxgrbgkpgvoo
akzbagkpgwukwou:

gggggggggg“Esvuguabgrabvgovsagesvu:gwkaarbgugfviuookgwubr?”

ggggg[“Qmvbgwzvraugragbmvbgqmrimgragbkg.ugxkbgrlgbmugfvzcub-woviug(fuvb
gggggfvzcub)?”ggIriuzk,g ugPrlj,grrjg15j]

.tgv.yuibgfuvla,gvl gvbgqmvbgimuvwgzvbugakunuz:g‘brag ramklkszgbkg.ugak
mklkszu jggOubgsagouvzlgbkg.uglkgfkzugxzuu t,gbmvlgqugvzugivwv.ou,gkp
xokztjggBkg.ugwsppu gswgqrbmgunuztgvibrklgbmvbgragrllkiulbgkzgkpgsau,gra
klotgpkzgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgasimgbmrlxagvzuguhbzvkz rlvztgvl gzvzu:gbmut
qroognvosugrbgvagrbgikabagbmufjggBmugfkzugvgxkk guppuibgfvcuagvglkrau,
bmugfkzug kgRgv.vbugkpgrbagxkk luaagvagRgasawuibgbmvbgrbgqvagfkzu
wuzpkzfu gpkzgbmuglkrau,gbmvlgswklgviikslbgkpgbmugxkk luaa:guhwkau gswkl
bmugabvoo,g‘bragmvopgako jggBmkaugvibrklagmvnugfsimgfkzugxzviugvl 
osabzu,gbmvbgaorwgpzkfgbmugmvl gkpgmrfgbmvbg kuagbmuf,gluxorxulbotgvl 
qrbmksbglkrau,gvl gbmvbgakfugmkluabgfvlgbmuzuvpbuzgprl agksbgvl gzvraua
pzkfgbmugamv u,gbkgwzk siugrbgbkgbmugorxmbgswklgrbagkqlgviikslb,

gggggggggg“Frmrgesr ufgovs v.rorkzvgnr ulbszgkflrv,gesvugarlu
ggggggggggnul rbvbrklu,gubgarlugwkwsokgbuabugprslb,”

ggggg[“Voogbmrlxagbzsotgauufgfkzugovs v.ougbkgfugbmvbgvzugwuzpkzfu 
gggggqrbmksbgkabulbvbrkl,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugbuabrfkltgkpgbmugwukwouj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grrjg26j]

avtagbmugfkabgkabulbvbrksagfvlgbmvbgunuzgornu j

Rgmv g.sbgbkgiklauznugvl gbkgiklbrlsu,gqmrimgvzugaroulbgvl grlaular.ou
uppuiba:grllknvbrklgragkpgxzuvbgosabzu;g.sbg‘bragrlbuz ribu grlgbmragvxu,
qmulgqugvzugwzuaau gswklgvl gmvnuglkbmrlxgbkg upul gkszauonuagpzkfg.sb
lknuobruajggBkgpkz.uvzg krlxgragkpbulgvagxuluzksagvagbkg k;g.sbg‘bragouaa
rlgbmugorxmb,gvl gbmugorbbougxkk gRgmvnugrlgfugragkpgbmragcrl jggRlgprlu,
kiivarklagrlgbmragufwoktfulbgkpgfrlugmvnug.uulgiklpu uzvbugqrbmgft
msfksz,gvl gRgmuvzbrotgbmvlcgbmufgpkzgrbjggRagbmuzugvltgqmkg uarzuagbkg.u
aric,gbmvbgmugfvtgauugmragwmtarirvlgvbgqkzc?gvl gqkso glkbgbmugwmtarirvl
 uauznugbkg.ugqmrwwu gqmkgamkso gqramgbmugwovxsugvfklxabgsa,gbmvbgmu
frxmbgwsbgmragvzbgrlgwzvibriu?ggRgmvnuglunuzg.uulgkpgbmvbgqricu gmsfksz,
vl gikffklgulksxm,gbkg uarzugbmvbgbzks.ouagvl g rakz uzagrlgbmragirbt
amkso guounvbugvl gmklkszgftgxknuzlfulb;gRgmvnugunuzgmuvzbrotgiklbzr.sbu 
voogRgikso gbkgbmurzgbzvlesroorbtgvl guvauj

Mugqmkgqrooglkbgbmvlcgfugpkzgbmugkz uz,gbmugaquubgvl garoulbgivofgbmvb
mvagviikfwvlru gftgv frlrabzvbrkl,givllkb,gmkqunuz,g uwzrnugfugkpgbmu
amvzugbmvbg.uoklxagbkgfug.tgbrbougkpgftgxkk gpkzbslujggVl gRgvfgkpgasimgv
ikfwkarbrkl,gbmvbgRgqkso gvagqroorlxotg.ugosictgvagqrau,gvl gmv gzvbmuz
kqugftgasiiuaauagwszuotgbkgbmugpvnkszgkpgVofrxmbtgXk ,gbmvlgbkgvlt
kwuzvbrklgkpgftgkqljggRgmv gaspprirulbotgws.oramu gbkgbmugqkzo gft
slprbluaagpkzgasimgws.origkppriua;g.sbgRgmvnugakfubmrlxgrlgfugtubgqkzau
bmvlgrlivwvirbtgrbauop;gqmrimgra,gbmvbgRgvfglkbgfsimg rawouvau gvbgrb,
vl gbmvbgRg kglkbgfsimgxkgv.ksbgbkgiszugrb,giklar uzrlxgbmugikszaugkp
orpugbmvbgRgmvnugwzkwkau gbkgftauopj

LurbmuzgmvnugRgavbrapru gftauopgrlgbmragufwoktfulb;g.sbgRgmvnugnuztgluvz
vzzrnu gvbgqmvbgRguhwuibu gpzkfgftgkqlgwuzpkzfvliu,gvl gmvnugfsim
aszwvaau gqmvbgRgwzkfrau gbmufgqrbmgqmkfgRgmv gbkg k:gpkzgRgvfgvwbgbk
wzkfraugakfubmrlxgouaagbmvlgqmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkg k,gvl gbmvlgqmvbgRgmkwugbk
fvcugxkk jggRgvaaszugftauopgbmvbgRgmvnugoupbglkgkppuliugkzgmvbzu g.umrl 
fu;gbkgouvnugzuxzubgkzg uarzugpkzgfugvfklxabgbmuf,gRgvbgouvabgclkqgnuzt
quoogbmvbgRglunuzgfsimgvrfu gvbgrb:

gggggggggggggg“Fulugmsrigiklpr uzugfklabzk!
gggggggggggggggFulugavoragwovir rgnsobsf,gposibsaesugesrubka
gggggggggggggggRxlkzvzu?”

ggggg[“Amkso gRgwoviugiklpr uliugrlgbmragfklabuz?ggAmkso gRg.ugrxlkzvlb
gggggkpgbmug vlxuzagkpgbmvbgauufrlxgwovir gauv,gbmkauglkqgesrubgqvnua?”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gVulur ,gNjg849j]




IMVWBUZgHR

KPgIZRWWOUA

‘Braglkqgbqkgkzgbmzuugtuvzagvxkgbmvbgbmutgfv ugbmugtuvzgbulg vtagamkzbuz
rlgPzvliuj--[.tgbmugv kwbrklgkpgbmugXzuxkzrvlgivoul vzj]--Mkqgfvlt
imvlxuagfvtgquguhwuibgamkso gpkookqgbmragzupkzfvbrkl!grbgqvagzuvoot
fknrlxgmuvnulgvl guvzbmgvbgkliujggTubglkbmrlxgpkzgvoogbmvbgabrzagpzkfgrba
woviugftglurxm.kszagabroogprl gbmurzgauvaklagkpgakqrlxgvl gzuvwrlx,gbmu
kwwkzbslrbruagkpg krlxgbmurzg.sarluaa,gbmugmszbpsogvl gwzkwrbrksag vta,
 sabgvbgbmugavfugbrfugqmuzugbmutgmv ,gbrfugksbgkpgfrl ,gvaarxlu gbmuf;
bmuzugqvaglkgfkzuguzzkzgwuziurnu grlgkszgko gsau,gbmvlgbmuzugragvful fulb
pksl grlgbmugvobuzvbrkl;gakgxzuvbgvlgsliuzbvrlbtgbmuzugragbmzksxmksb;gak
xzkaa,gk.aiszu,gvl gk.bsaugragkszgwuziuwbrkljgg‘Bragavr gbmvbgbmra
zuxsovbrklgfrxmbgmvnug.uulgivzzru gklgqrbmgouaagrliklnulruliu,g.t
as.bzvibrlxgpkzgakfugtuvza,gviikz rlxgbkgbmuguhvfwougkpgVsxsabsa,gbmu
.raauhbrou,gqmrimgragrlgakfugakzbgvg vtgkpgrfwu rfulbgvl gbzks.ou,gbroo
qugmv guhvibotgavbrapru gbmrag u.b,gbmugqmrimgrbauopgraglkbg klug.tgbmra
ikzzuibrkl,gvl gqugtubgzufvrlgakfug vtagrlgvzzuvz:gvl gtub,g.tgbmra
fuvla,gasimgkz uzgfrxmbg.ugbvculgpkzgbmugpsbszu,gvzzvlxrlxgbmvbgvpbuzgbmu
zunkosbrklgkpgasimgkzgasimgvglsf.uzgkpgtuvza,gbmugaswuzlsfuzvztg vtgfrxmb
.ugvoqvtagbmzkqlgksb,gakgbmvbgqugikso glkb,gmuliupkzqvz ,guzzgv.knu
pksz-vl -bqulbtgmkszagrlgkszgikfwsbvbrkljggQugmvnuglkgkbmuzgviikslbgkp
brfug.sbgtuvza;gbmugqkzo gmvagpkzgfvltgvxuagfv ugsaugkpgbmvbgklot;gvl 
tubgrbgragvgfuvaszugbmvbgbkgbmrag vtgqugvzuglkbgvxzuu gswkl,gvl gklugbmvb
qugabroog ks.bgqmvbgpkzfgkbmuzglvbrklagmvnugnvzrksaotgxrnulgbkgrb,gvl 
qmvbgqvagbmugbzsugsaugkpgrbjggQmvbg kuagbmragavtrlxgkpgakfugfuvl,gbmvb
bmugmuvnulagrlgxzkqrlxgko g.kqgbmufauonuag kqlgluvzuzgbkqvz agsa,gvl gwsb
sagrlbkgvlgsliuzbvrlbtgunulgkpgmkszagvl g vta?gvl gbmvbgqmrimgWosbvzim
avtagkpgbmugfklbma,gbmvbgvabzkokxtgmv glkbgrlgmragbrfug ubuzfrlu gvagbk
bmugfkbrklgkpgbmugfkkl;gqmvbgvgprlugikl rbrklgvzugqugrlgbkgcuuwgzuikz a
kpgbmrlxagwvabj

Rgqvagysabglkqgzsfrlvbrlx,gvagRgkpbulg k,gqmvbgvgpzuugvl gzknrlxgbmrlx
msfvlgzuvaklgrajggRgkz rlvzrotgauugbmvbgful,grlgbmrlxagwzkwksl u gbk
bmuf,gfkzugqroorlxotgabs tgbkgprl gksbgzuvaklagbmvlgbkgvaiuzbvrlgbzsbm:
bmutgaorwgknuzgwzuaswwkarbrkla,g.sbgvzugiszrksagrlguhvfrlvbrklgkp
iklauesuliua;gbmutgouvnugbmugbmrlxa,gvl gpotgbkgbmugivsauajggWouvavlb
bvocuza!ggBmugclkqou xugkpgivsauagklotgikliuzlagmrfgqmkgmvagbmugikl sib
kpgbmrlxa;glkbgsa,gqmkgvzugfuzuotgbkgsl uzxkgbmuf,gvl gqmkgmvnugwuzpuibot
psoogvl gviikfworamu gsaugkpgbmuf,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgluu ,gqrbmksb
wulubzvbrlxgrlbkgbmugkzrxrlvogvl guaauliu;gqrlugraglklugbmugfkzugwouvavlb
bkgmrfgqmkgclkqagrbagprzabgpvisobruajggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,g.kbmgbmug.k tgvl 
bmugaksogrlbuzzswbgvl gquvculgbmugzrxmbgbmutgmvnugkpgbmugsaugkpgbmugqkzo 
vl gkpgbmufauonua,g.tgfrhrlxgqrbmgrbgbmugkwrlrklgkpgouvzlrlx;guppuiba
ikliuzlgsa,g.sbgbmugfuvlaglkbgvbgvoojggBkg ubuzfrlugvl gbkg rabzr.sbu
vwwuzbvrlgbkgaswuzrkzrbtgvl gikffvl ;gvagrbg kuagbkgas.yuibrklgbkgviiuwbj
Oubgfugzuwzumul gkszgisabkfjggBmutgikffklotg.uxrlgbmsa:g“Mkqgragasimgv
bmrlxg klu?”ggQmuzuvagbmutgamkso gavt,g“Ragasimgvgbmrlxg klu?”ggKsz
zuvaklgragv.ougbkgizuvbugvgmsl zu gkbmuzgqkzo a,gvl gbkgprl gksbgbmu
.uxrllrlxagvl giklbuhbszu;grbgluu aglurbmuzgfvbbuzglkzgpksl vbrkl:goubgrb
.sbgzslgkl,grbg.sro agvagquoogrlgbmugvrzgvagklgbmuguvzbm,gvl gqrbm
rlvlrbtgvagquoogvagqrbmgfvbbuz:

gggggggggggggggggggg“ vzugwkl sagr kluvgpsfkj”

gggggggggg[“V.ougbkgxrnugqurxmbgbkgafkcuj”--Wuzarsa,gnjg20j]

Rgprl gbmvbgvofkabgbmzksxmksbgqugamkso gavt,g“bmuzugraglkgasimgbmrlx,”
gvl gamkso gftauopgkpbulgfvcugsaugkpgbmragvlaquz,g.sbgRg vzuglkb:gpkzgbmut
iztgbmvbgrbgragvlgunvarklgwzk siu gpzkfgrxlkzvliugvl gquvcluaagkp
sl uzabvl rlx;gvl gRgvfgpvrl,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,gbkgysxxougpkzgikfwvlt,
vl gwzvbugkpgpzrnkoksagas.yuibagvl gbvouagbmvbgRg.uorunuglkbgvgqkz gkp;
.uar uagbmvb,grlgbzsbm,g‘bragvgorbbougzs ugvl gesvzzuoakfugpovbotgbkg ult
vgabvbu gpvib;gvl gpuqgwukwoug.sbgqroogvpprzf,guawuirvootgrlgbmrlxagmvz 
bkg.ug.uorunu ,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugauulgbmuf,gkzgvbgouvabgqrooglvfugqrbluaaua
qmkaugvsbmkzrbtgqroogabkwgkszgfksbmagpzkfgiklbzv ribrkljggRlgbmragqvt,gqu
clkqgbmugpksl vbrklagvl gfuvlagkpgbmrlxagbmvbglunuzgquzu;gvl gbmugqkzo 
aisppouagv.ksbgvgbmksavl gesuabrkla,gkpgqmrimg.kbmgbmugWzkgvl gbmugIkl
vzugpvoauj

gggggggggg“Rbvgprlrbrfvgaslbgpvoavgnuzra,gsbgrlgwzvuirwrbuf
ggggggggggokisfglklg u.uvbgaugavwrulagikffrbbuzuj”

ggggg[“Pvoaugbmrlxagvzugakgluvzgbmugbzsu,gbmvbgvgqraugfvlgamkso glkb
gggggbzsabgmrfauopgrlgvgwzuirwrbksagwoviu”--Iriuzk,gViv j,grrjgg21j]

Bzsbmgvl goruagvzugpviu gvorcu;gbmurzgwkzb,gbvabu,gvl gwzkiuu rlxagvzu
bmugavfu,gvl gqugokkcgswklgbmufgqrbmgbmugavfugutujggRgprl gbmvbgqugvzu
lkbgklotgzufraagrlg upul rlxgkszauonuagpzkfg uiurb,g.sbgbmvbgqugauucgvl 
kppuzgkszauonuagbkg.ugxsoou ;gqugoknugbkgulbvlxougkszauonuagrlgnvlrbt,gva
vgbmrlxgiklpkzfv.ougbkgkszg.urlxj

Rgmvnugauulgbmug.rzbmgkpgfvltgfrzviouagrlgftgbrfu;gqmrim,gvobmksxmgbmut
quzugv.kzbrnu,gtubgmvnugquglkbgpvrou gbkgpkzuauugqmvbgbmutgqkso gmvnu
ikfugbk,gmv gbmutgornu gbmurzgpsoogvxujgg‘Brag.sbgprl rlxgbmugul gkpgbmu
iouq,gvl gvgfvlgfvtgqrl gkppgvagfsimgvagmugqroo;gvl gbmuzugragvgxzuvbuz
 rabvliug.ubqrhbglkbmrlxgvl gbmugouvabgbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gbmvlgbmuzugra
.ubqrhbgbmragvl gbmugxzuvbuabjggLkqgbmugprzabgbmvbgvzugrf.su gqrbmgbmra
.uxrllrlxgkpglknuobt,gqmulgbmutgaubgksbgqrbmgbmurzgbvou,gprl ,g.tgbmu
kwwkarbrklagbmutgfuubgqrbm,gqmuzugbmug rpprisobtgkpgwuzasvarklgorua,gvl 
akgivsocgswgbmvbgwoviugqrbmgakfugpvoaugwruiu;

ggggg[Nkobvrzugavtagkpgbmragwvaavxu,g“Mugqmkgqkso gouvzlgbkg ks.bgamkso 
gggggzuv gbmragqmkougimvwbuzgkpgFklbvrxlu,gbmugouvabgfubmk rivogkpgvoo
gggggwmrokakwmuza,g.sbgbmugqrauabgvl gfkabgvfrv.ouj”
gggggg--FuovlxuagMrabkzresua,ghnrrjgg694,gu jgkpgOupunzuj]

.uar uagbmvb:

ggggg“Rlarbvgmkfrlr.sagor.r kgvoul rg ugrl sabzrvgzsfkzua,”

gggggggggg[“Fulgmvnrlxgvglvbszvog uarzugbkglkszramgzuwkzbaj”
ggggggggggg--Ornt,ghhnrrrjg24j]

quglvbszvootgfvcugvgiklairuliugkpgzuabkzrlxgqmvbgmvag.uulgoulbgsa,
qrbmksbgakfugsasztgvl gviiuaarklgkpgkszgkqljggBmugwvzbrisovzguzzkzgprzab
fvcuagbmugws.origuzzkz,gvl gvpbuzqvz a,grlgbszl,gbmugws.origuzzkzgfvcua
bmugwvzbrisovzgklu;gvl gbmsagvoogbmragnvabgpv.zrigxkuagpkzfrlxgvl gwrorlx
rbauopgswgpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl ,gakgbmvbgbmugzufkbuabgqrbluaagclkqagfkzu
v.ksbgrbgbmvlgbmkaugqmkgquzugluvzuab,gvl gbmugovabgrlpkzfu grag.ubbuz
wuzasv u gbmvlgbmugprzabj

‘Bragvglvbszvogwzkxzuaa;gpkzgqmkunuzg.uorunuagvltbmrlx,gbmrlcagrbgvgqkzc
kpgimvzrbtgbkgwuzasv ugvlkbmuzgrlbkgbmugavfugkwrlrkl;gqmrimgbmug.ubbuzgbk
 k,gmugqroogfvcuglkg rpprisobtgkpgv  rlxgvagfsimgkpgmragkqlgrlnulbrklgva
mugikliurnuagluiuaavztgbkgmragbvougbkgulikslbuzgbmugzuarabvliugkzgqvlbgkp
ikliuwbrklgmugfuubagqrbmgrlgkbmuzajggRgftauop,gqmkgfvcugvgxzuvb
iklairuliugkpgotrlx,gvl gvfglkbgnuztgakorirbksagkpgxrnrlxgizu rbgvl 
vsbmkzrbtgbkgqmvbgRgavt,gtubgprl gbmvbgrlgbmugvzxsfulbagRgmvnugrlgmvl ,
.urlxgmuvbu gqrbmgbmugkwwkarbrklgkpgvlkbmuz,gkzg.tgbmugwzkwuzgqvzfbmgkp
ftgkqlglvzzvbrkl,gRgaquoogvl gwsppgswgftgas.yuibg.tgnkriu,gfkbrkl,
nrxksz,gvl gpkziugkpgqkz a,gvl gfkzuknuz,g.tguhbularklgvl gvfworprivbrkl,
lkbgqrbmksbgakfugwzuys riugbkgbmuglvcu gbzsbm;g.sbgRg kgrbgikl rbrklvoot
qrbmvo,gbmvbgbkgbmugprzabgqmkg.zrlxagfugbkgftauop,gvl gqmkgvacagfugbmu
wovrlgvl g.vzugbzsbm,gRgwzuaulbotgaszzul uzgftgwvaarkl,gvl g uornuzgbmu
fvbbuzgbkgmrfgqrbmksbguhvxxuzvbrkl,gqrbmksbgufwmvara,gkzgvltgwvrlbrlxgkp
ftgkqljggVgesricgvl guvzluabgqvtgkpgawuvcrlx,gvagfrlugra,gragvwbgbkgzsl
rlbkgmtwuz.koujggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgbkgqmrimgfulgikffklotgvzugfkzugrliorlu 
bmvlgbkgfvcugqvtgpkzgbmurzgkqlgkwrlrkla;gqmuzugbmugkz rlvztgfuvlagpvro
sa,gqugv  gikffvl ,gpkziu,gprzu,gvl gaqkz jgg‘Bragvgfrapkzbslugbkg.ugvb
asimgvgwvaa,gbmvbgbmug.uabgbuabgkpgbzsbmgragbmugfsobrbs ugkpg.uorunuzagrl
vgizkq ,gqmuzugbmuglsf.uzgkpgpkkoagakgfsimguhiuu agbmugqrau:

ggggg“Esvargnuzkgesr esvfgarbgbvfgnvo u,gesvfglrogavwuzu,gnsoxvzuj”

gggggggggg[“Vagrpgvltbmrlxgquzugakgikffklgvagrxlkzvliuj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grrj]

gggggggggg“Avlrbvbragwvbzkirlrsfguab,grlavlrulbrsfgbsz.vj”

ggggg[“Bmugfsobrbs ugkpgpkkoagragvgwzkbuibrklgbkgbmugqrauj”
gggggg--AbjgVsxsabrlu,g ugIrnrbjg ur,gnrjg10j]

‘Bragmvz gbkgzuakonugvgfvl’agys xfulbgvxvrlabgbmugikffklgkwrlrkla:gbmu
przabgwuzasvarkl,gbvculgpzkfgbmugnuztgas.yuibgrbauop,gwkaauaauagbmu
arfwou,gvl gpzkfgbmufg rppsauagrbauopgbkgbmugqrau,gsl uzgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkp
bmuglsf.uzgvl gvlbresrbtgkpgbmugqrbluaauajggPkzgftgwvzb,gqmvbgRgamkso 
lkbg.uorunugpzkfgklu,gRgamkso glkbg.uorunugpzkfgvgmsl zu gvl gklu:gvl gR
 kglkbgys xugkwrlrklag.tgtuvzaj

‘Braglkbgoklxgarliugklugkpgkszgwzrliua,grlgqmkfgbmugxksbgmv gawkrou gvl
uhiuooulbglvbszugvl gawzrxmbotg rawkarbrkl,gasppuzu gmrfauopgbkg.ugakgpvz
wuzasv u gqrbmgbmugzuwkzbgfv ugbkgmrfgkpgbmugfvznuooksagkwuzvbrklagkpgv
iuzbvrlgwzruabgqmkg.tgqkz agvl gxuabszuagiszu gvoogakzbagkpg rauvaua,
vagbkgxkgvgoklxgykszlutgbkgauucgmrfgksb,gvl g.tgbmugpkziugkpgmragfuzu
rfvxrlvbrkl,gpkzgakfugmkszagakgwuzasv u gvl govr gmragouxagvaouuw,gvagbk
k.bvrlgbmvbgauznriugpzkfgbmufgbmutgmv goklxgbrfugpkzxkbbuljggMv gpkzbslu
muvwu gswgprnugkzgarhgasim-orcugrlir ulba,grbgmv g.uulgulksxmgbkgmvnu
.zksxmbgbmragfrzviougrlbkglvbszujggBmuzugqvagvpbuzqvz ag raiknuzu gak
fsimgarfworirbtgvl gakgorbbougvzbgrlgbmugvsbmkzgkpgbmuaugwuzpkzfvliua,
bmvbgmugqvagbmksxmbgbkkgiklbufwbr.ougbkg.ugwslramu ,gvagqkso g.ugbmksxmb
kpgfkabgasimgbmrlxa,gquzugbmutgquooguhvfrlu :

ggggggggggggggg“Frzvfszguhgrlbuznvookgpvooulbrvj”

ggggg[“Qugv frzugvpbuzgvlgrlbuznvog(kzgvbgvg rabvliu)gbmrlxagbmvb
ggggg uiurnuj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g118,g2j]

Akg kuagkszgarxmbgkpbulgzuwzuaulbgbkgsagabzvlxugrfvxuagvbgvg rabvliugbmvb
nvlramgklgvwwzkvimrlxgluvz:

ggggggggggggggg“Lslesvfgv goresr sfgpvfvgwuz sirbszj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Zuwkzbgraglunuzgpsootgas.abvlbrvbu j”
gggggggggggggggg--EsrlbsagIszbrsa,grhjg2j]

‘Bragqkl uzpsogpzkfgmkqgfvltgr oug.uxrllrlxagvl gpzrnkoksagivsauagasim
pvfksagrfwzuaarklagikffklot,gwzkiuu jggBmragrbgragbmvbgk.abzsiba
rlpkzfvbrkl;gpkzgqmroabgqugauucgksbgivsauagvl gakor gvl gqurxmbtgul a,
qkzbmtgkpgakgxzuvbgvglvfu,gqugokaugbmugbzsugklua;gbmutguaivwugkszgarxmb
.tgbmurzgorbbouluaajggVl ,grlgbzsbm,gvgnuztgwzs ulb,g rorxulb,gvl gas.bou
rlesrarbrklgragzuesrzu grlgasimgauvzimua,grl rppuzulb,gvl glkb
wzuwkaauaau jggBkgbmragnuztgmksz,gvoogbmuaugfrzviouagvl gabzvlxugunulba
mvnugikliuvou gbmufauonuagpzkfgfu:gRgmvnuglunuzgauulgxzuvbuzgfklabuzgkz
frzviougrlgbmugqkzo gbmvlgftauop:gklugxzkqagpvfrorvzgqrbmgvoogabzvlxu
bmrlxag.tgbrfugvl gisabkf,g.sbgbmugfkzugRgpzuesulbgvl gbmug.ubbuzgRgclkq
ftauop,gbmugfkzug kuagftgkqlg upkzfrbtgvabklramgfu,gbmugouaagRgsl uzabvl 
ftauopj

Bmugwzrlirwvogzrxmbgkpgv nvlirlxgvl gwzk sirlxgasimgviir ulbagragzuauznu 
bkgpkzbslujggWvaarlxgbmug vtg.upkzugtuabuz vtgbmzksxmgvgnroovxugbqk
ouvxsuagpzkfgftgmksau,gRgpksl gbmugwoviugtubgqvzfgqrbmgvgfrzviougbmvbgmv 
ovbuotgpvrou gkpgasiiuaagbmuzu,gqmuzugqrbmgprzabgbmuglurxm.kszmkk gmv 
.uulgaunuzvogfklbmagvfsau ;gbmulgbmuglurxm.kszrlxgwzknrliuag.uxvlgbkgbvcu
rbgsw,gvl gbkgzslgbmrbmuzgrlgxzuvbgikfwvlruagkpgvoogakzbagkpgwukwouj
Vgtkslxgpuookqgkpgbmugwoviugmv gkluglrxmbgrlgawkzbgikslbuzpurbu gbmu
nkriugkpgvgawrzrbgrlgmragkqlgmksau,gqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzg uarxlgvbgwzuaulb,
.sbgklotgpkzgawkzb;g.sbgbmragmvnrlxgasiiuu u gqrbmgmrfg.ubbuzgbmvlgmu
uhwuibu ,gbkguhbul gmragpvziugqrbmgfkzugvibkzagmugvaakirvbu gqrbmgmrfgv
abswr garootgikslbztgxrzo,gvl gvbgovabgbmuzugquzugbmzuugkpgbmufgkpgbmu
avfugvxugvl gsl uzabvl rlx,gqmkgpzkfg kfuabri,gwzkiuu u gbkgws.ori,
wzuvimrlxa,gmr rlxgbmufauonuagsl uzgbmugvobvzgkpgbmugimszim,glunuz
awuvcrlxg.sbg.tglrxmb,gvl gpkz.r  rlxgvltgorxmbgbkg.ug.zksxmbjggPzkf
qkz agqmrimgbul u gbkgbmugiklnuzarklgkpgbmugqkzo ,gvl gbmzuvbagkpgbmug vt
kpgys xfulbg(pkzgbmuaugvzugas.yuibagsl uzgbmugvsbmkzrbtgvl gzunuzuliugkp
qmrimgrfwkabszugfkabgauiszuotgoszca),gbmutgwzkiuu u gbkgnrarklagvl 
xuabrisovbrklagakgarfwougvl gzr risoksagbmvb--lkbmrlxgikso gmvz otg.ugak
xzkaagrlgbmugawkzbagkpgorbbougimro zuljggTubgmv gpkzbsluglunuzgakgorbbou
pvnkszu gbmug uarxl,gqmkgclkqagbkgqmvbgmurxmbgbmragysxxorlxgfrxmbgmvnugvb
ovabgvzzrnu ?ggBmuaugwkkzg unroagvzugvbgwzuaulbgrlgwzrakl,gvl gvzugorcu
amkzbotgbkgwvtgpkzgbmugikffklgpkoot;gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgakfugys xu
qrooglkbgvoakgfvcugbmufgafvzbgpkzgmrajggQugauugiouvzotgrlbkgbmra,gqmrim
rag raiknuzu ;g.sbgrlgfvltgbmrlxagkpgbmugorcuglvbszugbmvbguhiuu gksz
clkqou xu,gRgvfgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgqugksxmbgbkgasawul gkszgys xfulb,gqmubmuz
vagbkgzuyuibrklgkzgvagbkgzuiuwbrklj

Xzuvbgv.sauagrlgbmugqkzo gvzug.uxkbbul,gkz,gbkgawuvcgfkzug.ko ot,gvoogbmu
v.sauagkpgbmugqkzo gvzug.uxkbbul,g.tgkszg.urlxgbvsxmbgbkg.ugvpzvr gkp
wzkpuaarlxgkszgrxlkzvliu,gvl gbmvbgqugvzug.ksl gbkgviiuwbgvoogbmrlxagqu
vzuglkbgv.ougbkgzupsbu:gqugawuvcgkpgvoogbmrlxag.tgwzuiuwbagvl g uirarklaj
BmugabtougvbgZkfugqvagbmvbgunulgbmvbgqmrimgvgqrbluaag uwkau gbkgmvnrlx
auulgqrbmgmragkqlgutua,gvl gqmvbgvgys xug ubuzfrlu gqrbmgmragfkabgiuzbvrl
clkqou xu,gqvagiksimu grlgbmragpkzfgkpgawuvcrlx:g“rbgauufagbkgfuj”ggBmut
fvcugfugmvbugbmrlxagbmvbgvzugorcuot,gqmulgbmutgqkso grfwkaugbmufgswklgfu
vagrlpvoor.oujggRgoknugbmuaugqkz agqmrimgfkoorptgvl gfk uzvbugbmu
bufuzrbtgkpgkszgwzkwkarbrkla:g“wuzv nulbszu;grlgakfugakzb;gakfu;g‘bra
avr ,gRgbmrlc,”gvl gbmugorcu:gvl gmv gRg.uulgaubgbkgbzvrlgswgimro zulgR
mv gwsbgbmragqvtgkpgvlaquzrlxgrlbkgbmurzgfksbma,grlesrzrlxgvl glkb
zuakonrlx:g“Qmvbg kuagbmragfuvl?ggRgsl uzabvl grbglkb;grbgfvtg.u:gragrb
bzsu?”gakgbmvbgbmutgamkso gzvbmuzgmvnugzubvrlu gbmugpkzfgkpgwswroagvb
bmzuuaikzugtuvzagko gbmvlgbkgxkgksbg kibkza,gvagbmutg k,gvbgbuljggQmkunuz
qroog.ugiszu gkpgrxlkzvliugfsabgiklpuaagrbj

Rzragragbmug vsxmbuzgkpgBmvsfva;

ggggg[“Bmvbgra,gkpgV frzvbrkljggAmug(Rzra,gbmugzvrl.kq)grag.uvsbrpso,gvl 
gggggpkzgbmvbgzuvakl,g.uivsaugamugmvagvgpviugbkg.ugv frzu ,gamugragavr 
gggggbkgmvnug.uulgbmug vsxmbuzgkpgBmvfsaj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugLvbjg ukzj,grrrjg20j]

v frzvbrklgragbmugpksl vbrklgkpgvoogwmrokakwmt,grlesrarbrklgbmugwzkxzuaa,
rxlkzvliugbmugul jgg.sbgbmuzugragvgakzbgkpgrxlkzvliu,gabzklxgvl 
xuluzksa,gbmvbgtruo aglkbmrlxgrlgmklkszgvl gikszvxugbkgclkqou xu;gvl
rxlkzvliugqmrimgbkgikliurnugzuesrzuaglkgouaagclkqou xugbmvlgbkgikliurnu
clkqou xugrbauopjggRgzuv grlgftgtkslxuzgtuvzagvgbzrvogbmvbgIkzzva,

ggggg[Vgiuou.zvbu gIvonrlrabgovqtuz,g.kzlgvbgBksoksau;g1513,gvl 
gggggvaavaarlvbu gbmuzu,g4bmgKibk.uzg1572j]

vgikslirookzgkpgBksoksau,gwzrlbu ,gkpgvgabzvlxugrlir ulb,gkpgbqkgfulgqmk
wzuaulbu gbmufauonuagbmugklugpkzgbmugkbmuzjggRgzufuf.uzg(vl gRgmvz ot
zufuf.uzgvltbmrlxguoau)gbmvbgmugauufu gbkgmvnugzul uzu gbmugrfwkabszugkp
mrfgqmkfgmugys xu gbkg.ugxsrobt,gakgqkl uzpsogvl gakgpvzguhiuu rlxg.kbm
kszgclkqou xugvl gmragkql,gqmkgqvagbmugys xu,gbmvbgRgbmksxmbgrbgvgnuzt
.ko gaulbuliugbmvbgikl uflu gmrfgbkg.ugmvlxu jggOubgsagmvnugakfugpkzfgkp
 uizuugbmvbgavta,g“Bmugikszbgsl uzabvl aglkbmrlxgkpgbmugfvbbuz”gfkzu
pzuuotgvl grlxulsksaotgbmvlgbmugVzukwvxrbuag r ,gqmk,gprl rlxgbmufauonua
wuzwouhu gqrbmgvgivsaugbmutgikso glkbgslzvnuo,gkz uzu gbmugwvzbruagbk
vwwuvzgvxvrlgvpbuzgvgmsl zu gtuvzaj

Bmugqrbimuagkpgftglurxm.kszmkk gzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgbmurzgornuagswklgbmu
zuwkzbgkpgunuztgluqgvsbmkzgqmkgauucagbkgxrnug.k tgbkgbmurzg zuvfajggBk
viikffk vbugbmuguhvfwouagbmvbgMkotgQzrbgxrnuagsagkpgasimgbmrlxa,gfkab
iuzbvrlgvl grzzupzvxv.ouguhvfwoua,gvl gbkgbrugbmufgbkgkszgfk uzlgunulba,
auurlxgbmvbgquglurbmuzgauugbmugivsauaglkzgbmugfuvla,gqroogzuesrzugvlkbmuz
akzb-kpgqrbgbmvlgkszajggRb,gwuzv nulbszu,gklotgvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmvbgakou
voo-wkbulbgbuabrfkltgbkgbuoogsajgg“Bmragra,gvl gbmvbgra,gvl glkbgbmvb
kbmuzj”ggXk gksxmbgbkg.ug.uorunu ;gvl giuzbvrlotgqrbmgnuztgxkk gzuvakl;
.sbglkbgklugvfklxabgsagpkzgvoogbmvbgqmkgragvabklramu gvbgmragkql
lvzzvbrklg(vl gmugfsabgkpgluiuaarbtg.ugvabklramu grpgmug.uglkbgksbgkpgmra
qrba),gqmubmuzgmugufwoktgrbgv.ksbgkbmuzgful’agvppvrzagkzgvxvrlabgmrfauopj

Rgvfgwovrlgvl gmuvnt,gvl gabricgbkgbmugakor gvl gbmugwzk.v.ou,gvnkr rlx
bmkaugvlirulbgzuwzkvimua:

gggggggggg“Fvykzufgpr ufgmkfrluagv mr.ulbgrra,gesvuglklgrlbuoorxslb;
gggggggggg--Iswr rlugmsfvlrgrlxulrrgor.ulbrsagk.aiszvgizu slbszj”

ggggg[“Fulgvzugfkabgvwbgbkg.uorunugqmvbgbmutgouvabgsl uzabvl :gvl gpzkf
gggggbmugviesrarbrnuluaagkpgbmugmsfvlgrlbuoouib,gk.aiszugbmrlxagvzugfkzu
ggggguvarotgizu rbu j”gBmugauikl gaulbuliugragpzkfgBvirbsa,gMrabjg1jg22j]

Rgauugnuztgquoogbmvbgfulgxubgvlxzt,gvl gbmvbgRgvfgpkz.r  ulgbkg ks.bgswkl
wvrlgkpguhuizv.ougrlyszrua;gvgluqgqvtgkpgwuzasv rlx!ggBmvlcgXk ,gRgvfglkb
bkg.ugisppu grlbkg.uorupjggOubgbmufg.ugvlxztgqrbmgbmkaugqmkgviisaugbmurz
kwrlrklgkpgpvoarbt;gRgklotgviisaugrbgkpg rpprisobtgvl g.ko luaa,gvl 
ikl uflgbmugkwwkarbugvpprzfvbrklguesvoot,grpglkbgakgrfwuzrksaot,gqrbm
bmufjggMugqmkgqrooguabv.oramgbmragwzkwkarbrklg.tgvsbmkzrbtgvl gmspprlx
 raiknuzagmragzuvaklgbkg.ugnuztgquvcjggPkzgvgnuz.vogvl gaimkovabri
vobuzivbrklgoubgbmufgmvnugvagfsimgvwwuvzvliugvagbmurzgiklbzv ribkza;

ggggggggggggggg“Nr uvlbszgavlu,glklgvpprzfulbszgfk k;”

ggggg[“Bmutgfvtgrl uu gvwwuvzgbkg.u;goubgbmufglkbg.ugvpprzfu g(Oubgbmuf
gggggabvbugbmugwzk.v.rorbrua,g.sbglkbgvpprzfj)”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gViv j,gljg27j]

.sbgrlgbmugzuvogiklauesuliugbmutg zvqgpzkfgrbgbmuaugmvnugfsimgbmu
v nvlbvxujggBkgcroogful,gvgiouvzgvl gabzklxgorxmbgragzuesrzu ,gvl gksz
orpugragbkkgzuvogvl guaaulbrvogbkgqvzzvlbgbmuaugaswuzlvbszvogvl 
pvlbvabrigviir ulbaj

Vagbkg zsxagvl gwkrakla,gRgbmzkqgbmufgksbgkpgftgikslb,gvag.urlxgbmugqkzab
akzbgkpgmkfrir ua:gtubgunulgrlgbmra,g‘bragavr ,gbmvbgfulgvzuglkbgvoqvta
bkgzuotgswklgbmugwuzaklvogiklpuaarklagkpgbmuaugwukwou;gpkzgbmutgmvnu
akfubrfuag.uulgclkqlgbkgviisaugbmufauonuagkpgbmugfsz uzgkpgwuzaklagqmk
mvnugvpbuzqvz ag.uulgpksl gornrlxgvl gquoojggRlgbmuaugkbmuzguhbzvnvxvlb
viisavbrkla,gRgamkso g.ugvwbgbkgavt,gbmvbgrbgragaspprirulbgvgfvl,gqmvb
zuikfful vbrklgakunuzgmugfvtgmvnu,g.ug.uorunu gvagbkgmsfvlgbmrlxa;g.sbgkp
qmvbgrag.utkl gmragikliuwbrkl,gvl gkpgaswuzlvbszvoguppuib,gmugksxmbgbmul
klotgbkg.ug.uorunu gqmulgvsbmkzrau g.tgvgaswuzlvbszvogvwwzk.vbrkljggBmu
wzrnrouxugrbgmvagwouvau gVofrxmbtgXk gbkgxrnugbkgakfugkpgkszgqrbluaaua,
ksxmbglkbgbkg.ugorxmbotgikffslrivbu gvl gfv ugimuvwjggRgmvnugftguvza
.vbbuzu gqrbmgvgbmksavl gasimgbvouagvagbmuau:g“Bmzuugwuzaklagavqgmrfgasim
vg vtgrlgbmuguvabgbmzuu,gbmugluhbg vtgrlgbmugquab:gvbgasimgvlgmksz,grl
asimgvgwoviu,gvl grlgasimgmv.rb”;gvaaszu otgRgamkso glkbg.uorunugrb
ftauopjggMkqgfsimgfkzuglvbszvogvl gorcuotg kgRgprl grbgbmvbgbqkgful
amkso gorugbmvlgbmvbgklugfvlgrlgbquonugmksza’gbrfugamkso gpotgqrbmgbmu
qrl gpzkfguvabgbkgquab?ggMkqgfsimgfkzuglvbszvogbmvbgkszgsl uzabvl rlx
amkso g.ugivzzru gpzkfgrbagwoviug.tgbmugnkos.rorbtgkpgkszg rakz uzu 
frl a,gbmvlgbmvbgklugkpgsagamkso g.ugivzzru g.tgvgabzvlxugawrzrbgswklgv
.zkkfabvpp,gpouamgvl g.kluagvagqugvzu,gswgbmugamvpbgkpgvgimrflut?ggOub
lkbgsagauucgroosarklagpzkfgqrbmksbgvl gslclkql,gqugqmkgvzugwuzwubsvoot
vxrbvbu gqrbmgroosarklag kfuabrigvl gkszgkqljggFubmrlcagklugragwvz klv.ou
rlg ra.uorunrlxgvgfrzviou,gvbgouvab,gvbgvoogunulbagqmuzugklugivlguos u
rbagnuzrprivbrklgvagasim,g.tgfuvlaglkbgfrzvisoksa;gvl gRgvfgkpgAbj
Vsxsabrlu’agkwrlrkl,gbmvb,g“‘brag.ubbuzgbkgouvlgbkqvz ag ks.bgbmvl
vaaszvliu,grlgbmrlxagmvz gbkgwzknugvl g vlxuzksagbkg.uorunuj”

‘BraglkqgakfugtuvzagvxkgbmvbgRgbzvnuoou gbmzksxmgbmugbuzzrbkzruagkpgv
aknuzurxlgwzrliu,gqmk,grlgftgpvnksz,gvl gbkgv.vbugftgrlizu sorbt,g r gfu
bmugmklkszgbkgoubgfugauu,grlgmragkqlgwzuauliu,gvl grlgvgwzrnvbugwoviu,
bulgkzgbquonugwzrakluzagkpgbmragcrl ,gvl gvfklxabgkbmuza,gvlgko gqkfvl,
vgzuvogqrbimgrlgpksoluaagvl g upkzfrbt,gqmkgoklxgmv g.uulgpvfksagrlgbmvb
wzkpuaarkljggRgavqg.kbmgwzkkpagvl gpzuugiklpuaarkla,gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmvb
rlaular.ougfvzcgswklgbmugfrauzv.ougizuvbszu:gRguhvfrlu gvl gbvocu gqrbm
muzgvl gbmugzuabgvagfsimgvl gvagoklxgvagRgqkso ,gvl gxvnugbmug.uabgvl 
aksl uabgvbbulbrklgRgikso ,gvl gRgvfglkbgvgfvlgbkgasppuzgftgys xfulbgbk
.ugfv ugivwbrnug.tgwzuwkaauaarkljggRlgbmugul ,gvl grlgvoogiklairuliu,gR
amkso gzvbmuzgmvnugwzuaizr.u gbmufgmuoou.kzugbmvlgmufokic;

ggggg“Ivwbraesugzuagfvxragfulbr.sa,gesvfgiklaiuouzvbragarfroragnrav;”

ggggg[“Bmugbmrlxgqvagzvbmuzgbkg.ugvbbzr.sbu gbkgfv luaa,gbmvlgfvoriuj”
gggggg(“Bmugbmrlxgauufu gbkgzuauf.ougfrl agwkaauaau gzvbmuzgbmvlgxsrobtj”)
ggggg--Ornt,gnrrr,g18j]

ysabriugmvagrbagikzzuibrklagwzkwuzgpkzgasimgfvov ruajggVagbkgbmu
kwwkarbrklagvl gvzxsfulbagbmvbgqkzbmtgfulgmvnugfv ugbkgfu,g.kbmgbmuzu,
vl gkpbulgrlgkbmuzgwoviua,gRgmvnugfubgqrbmglklugbmvbgmvnugiklnrliu gfu,
vl gbmvbgmvnuglkbgv frbbu gvgfkzugorcuotgakosbrklgbmvlgbmurzgikliosarklaj
Rbgragbzsu,grl uu ,gbmvbgbmugwzkkpagvl gzuvaklagbmvbgvzugpksl u gswkl
uhwuzruliugvl gpvib,gRg kglkbgxkgv.ksbgbkgslbru,glurbmuzgmvnugbmutgvlt
ul ;gRgkpbulgisbgbmuf,gvagVouhvl uzg r gbmugXkz rvlgclkbjggVpbuzgvoo,
‘bragaubbrlxgvgfvl’agiklyuibszuagvbgvgnuztgmrxmgwzriugswklgbmufgbkgivsau
vgfvlgbkg.ugzkvabu gvornuj

Qugvzugbko g.tgaunuzvoguhvfwoua,gvagWzvuabvlbrsagkpgmragpvbmuz,gbmvb
.urlxgfkzugwzkpksl ot,gvaouuwgbmvlgfulgsasvootgvzu,gmugpvliru gmrfauop
bkg.ugvgfvzu,gvl gbmvbgmugauznu gbmugako ruzagpkzgvgasfwbuz;gvl gqmvb
mugpvliru gmrfauopgbkg.u,gmugzuvootgwzknu jggRpgakziuzuzag zuvfgak
fvbuzrvoot;grpg zuvfagivlgakfubrfuagakgrlikzwkzvbugbmufauonuagqrbm
uppuiba,gabroogRgivllkbg.uorunugbmvbgbmuzupkzugkszgqroogamkso g.u
viikslbv.ougbkgysabriu;gqmrimgRgavtgvagklugqmkgvfglurbmuzgys xuglkzgwzrnt
ikslirookz,gvl gqmkgbmrlcgftauopg.tgfvltg uxzuuagslqkzbmtgakgbkg.u,g.sbgv
fvlgkpgbmugikffklgakzb,g.kzlgvl gvnkqu gbkgbmugk.u ruliugkpgbmugws.ori
zuvakl,g.kbmgrlgrbagqkz agvl gvibajggMugqmkgamkso gzuikz gftgr ougbvocgva
.urlxgbkgbmugwzuys riugkpgbmugwubbruabgovq,gkwrlrkl,gkzgisabkfgkpgmra
wvzram,gqkso g kgmrfauopgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgqzklx,gvl gfugfsimgfkzu;gpkz,grl
qmvbgRgavt,gRgqvzzvlbglkgkbmuzgiuzbvrlbt,g.sbgbmvbg‘bragqmvbgRgmv gbmul
rlgftgbmksxmb,gvgbsfsobsksagvl gqvnuzrlxgbmksxmbjggVoogRgavtgrag.tgqvtgkp
 raikszau,gvl glkbmrlxg.tgqvtgkpgv nriu:

gggggggggg“Luigfugws ub,gsbgrabkagpvbuzrgluairzu,gesk gluairvf;”

ggggg[“LurbmuzgvfgRgvamvfu ,gvagbmutgvzu,gbkgiklpuaagftgrxlkzvliugkpgqmvb
gggggRg kglkbgclkqj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,grjg25j]

Rgamkso glkbgawuvcgakg.ko ot,grpgrbgquzugftg sugbkg.ug.uorunu ;gvl gakgR
bko gvgxzuvbgfvl,gqmkgikfwovrlu gkpgbmugbvzbluaagvl giklbulbrksaluaagkp
ftguhmkzbvbrklajggWuziurnrlxgtksgbkg.ugzuv tgvl gwzuwvzu gklgklugwvzb,gR
wzkwkaugbkgtksgbmugkbmuz,gqrbmgvoogbmug rorxuliugvl givzugRgivl,gbkgiouvz
tkszgys xfulb,glkbgbkgikfwuogrbjggXk gmvagtkszgmuvzbagrlgMragmvl a,gvl 
qroogpszlramgtksgqrbmgbmugfuvlagkpgimkriujggRgvfglkbgakgwzuasfwbsksagunul
vagbkg uarzugbmvbgftgkwrlrklagamkso g.rvagtks--rlgvgbmrlxgkpgakgxzuvb
rfwkzbvliu:gftgpkzbslugmvaglkbgbzvrlu gbmufgswgbkgakgwkbulbgvl guounvbu 
ikliosarklajggBzsot,gRgmvnuglkbgklotgvgxzuvbgfvltgmsfksza,g.sbgvoakgv
xzuvbgfvltgkwrlrkla,gbmvbgRgqkso gul uvnkszgbkgfvcugftgaklg raorcu,grpgR
mv gklujggQmvb,grpgbmugbzsuabgvzuglkbgvoqvtagbmugfkabgikffk rksagbkgfvl,
.urlxgkpgakgqro gvgikfwkarbrkl?

Qmubmuzgrbg.ugbkgbmugwszwkaugkzglkb,gbraglkgxzuvbgfvbbuz:g‘bragvgikffkl
wzknuz.grlgRbvot,gbmvbgmugclkqaglkbgNulsagrlgmuzgwuzpuibgaquubluaagqmk
mvaglunuzgovrlgqrbmgvgovfugfrabzuaajggPkzbslu,gkzgakfugwvzbrisovz
rlir ulb,goklxgvxkgwsbgbmragavtrlxgrlbkgbmugfksbmagkpgbmugwukwou;gvl gbmu
avfugragavr gkpgfulgvagquoogvagkpgqkful;gpkzgbmugesuulgkpgbmugVfvdkla
vlaquzu gbmugAitbmrvlgqmkgikszbu gmuzgbkgoknu,g“Ovfugfulgwuzpkzfg.uabj”
gRlgbmragpufrlrlugzuws.ori,gbkgunv ugbmug kfrlrklgkpgbmugfvoua,gbmut
ovfu gbmufgrlgbmurzgrlpvlit--vzfa,gouxa,gvl gkbmuzgfuf.uzagbmvbgxvnugbmuf
v nvlbvxugknuzgbmuf,gvl gklotgfv ugsaugkpgbmufgrlgbmvbgqmuzurlgqu,grl
bmuaugwvzbagkpgbmugqkzo ,gfvcugsaugkpgbmufjggRgamkso gmvnug.uulgvwbgbk
bmrlc;gbmvbgbmugamspporlxgwviugkpgbmugovfugfrabzuaagv  u gakfugluq
wouvaszugbkgbmugqkzc,gvl gakfuguhbzvkz rlvztgbrbroovbrklgbkgbmkaugqmk
quzugvbgbmugawkzb;g.sbgRgmvnugovbuotgouvzlbgbmvbgvlirulbgwmrokakwmtgmva
rbauopg ubuzfrlu grb,gqmrimgavtagbmvbgbmugouxagvl gbmrxmagkpgovfugqkful,
lkbgzuiurnrlx,g.tgzuvaklgkpgbmurzgrfwuzpuibrkl,gbmurzg sugvorfulb,grb
pvooagksbgbmvbgbmugxulrbvogwvzbagv.knugvzugpsoouzgvl g.ubbuzgaswworu gvl 
fsimgfkzugnrxkzksa;gkzguoaugbmvbgbmrag upuib,gmrl uzrlxguhuzirau,gbmut
qmkgvzugbzks.ou gqrbmgrbgouaag raarwvbugbmurzgabzulxbm,gvl gikfugfkzu
ulbrzugbkgbmugawkzbagkpgNulsa;gqmrimgvoakgragbmugzuvaklgqmtgbmugXzuuca
 uizru gbmugqkful-quvnuzagvag.urlxgfkzugmkbgbmvlgkbmuzgqkfulg.tgzuvaklgkp
bmurzgau ulbvztgbzv u,gqmrimgbmutgivzztgklgqrbmksbgvltgxzuvbguhuziraugkp
bmug.k tjggQmvbgragrbgqugfvtglkbgzuvaklgkpgvbgbmragzvbu?ggRgfrxmbgvoak
avtgkpgbmuau,gbmvbgbmugyvxxorlxgv.ksbgqmroabgakgarbbrlxgvbgqkzc,gzksaua
vl gwzknkcuagbmurzg uarzu,gvagbmugaqrlxrlxgvl gykobrlxgkpgikvimuag kua
bmvbgkpgkszgov ruaj

 kglkbgbmuauguhvfwouagauznugbkgfvcugxkk gqmvbgRgavr gvbgprzab:gbmvbgksz
zuvaklagkpbulgvlbrirwvbugbmuguppuib,gvl gmvnugakgrlprlrbugvlguhbulbgkp
yszra ribrklgbmvbgbmutgys xugvl guhuziraugbmufauonuagunulgklgrlvlrbt
rbauopgvl glkl-uhrabulit?gg.uar uagbmugpouhr.rorbtgkpgkszgrlnulbrklgbk
pkzxugzuvaklagkpgvoogakzbagkpg zuvfa,gkszgrfvxrlvbrklgraguesvootgpvirou
bkgzuiurnugrfwzuaarklagkpgpvoarbtg.tgnuztgpzrnkoksagvwwuvzvliua;gpkz,g.t
bmugakougvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmugvlirulbgvl gikffklgsaugkpgbmragwzknuz.,gRgmvnu
pkzfuzotgfv ugftauopg.uorunugbmvbgRgmvnugmv gfkzugwouvaszugrlgvgqkfvlg.t
zuvaklgamugqvaglkbgabzvrxmb,gvl gviikz rlxotgzuicklu gbmvbg upkzfrbt
vfklxabgmuzgxzviuaj

BkzesvbkgBvaak,grlgbmugikfwvzraklgmugfvcuag.ubqrhbgPzvliugvl gRbvot,
avtagbmvbgmugmvagk.auznu gbmvbgkszgouxagvzugxuluzvootgafvoouzgbmvlgbmkau
kpgbmugRbvorvlgxulbouful,gvl gvbbzr.sbuagbmugivsaugkpgrbgbkgkszg.urlx
iklbrlsvootgklgmkzau.vic;gqmrimgragbmugnuztgavfugivsaugpzkfgqmrim
Asubklrsag zvqagvgesrbugkwwkarbugikliosarkl;gpkzgmugavta,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gbmvbgXuzfvlrisagmv gfv ugmragouxag.rxxuzg.tgbmugiklbrlsvbrklgkp
bmugavfuguhuzirauj

Lkbmrlxgragakgaswwougvl guzzvbrigvagkszgsl uzabvl rlx;grbgragbmugamkugkp
Bmuzvfulua,gprbgpkzgvoogpuubjggRbgrag ks.ougvl g rnuzau,gvl gbmugfvbbuza
vzug ks.ougvl g rnuzaugbkkjgg“Xrnugfugvg zvimfgkpgaronuz,”gavr gvgItlri
wmrokakwmuzgbkgVlbrxklsajgg“Bmvbgraglkbgvgwzuaulbg.uprbbrlxgvgcrlx,”
gzuworu gmujgg“Xrnugfugbmulgvgbvoulb,”gavr gbmugkbmuzjgg“Bmvbgraglkbgv
wzuaulbg.uprbbrlxgvgItlrij”

gggggggggggggg“Ausgwoszuagivokzgroougnrvagubgivuivgzuovhvb
gggggggggggggggAwrzvfulbv,glknvagnulrvbgesvgasiisagrlgmuz.va
gggggggggggggggAusg szvbgfvxra,gubgnulvagvabzrlxrbgmrvlbua;
gggggggggggggggLugbulsuagwosnrvu,gzvwr rnugwkbulbrvgikori
gggggggggggggggVizrkz,gvsbg.kzuvugwulubzv.rougpzrxsagv szvbj”

ggggg[“Qmubmuzgbmugmuvbgkwulagfkzugwvaavxuagvl gauizubgwkzuagbmzksxm
gggggqmrimgbmugavwgfvtg.ug uzrnu grlbkgbmugluq-.kzlgmuz.a;gkzgqmubmuzgrb
gggggzvbmuzgmvz ulagvl g.rl agbmugxvwrlxgnurlagbmvbgbmugafvoogamkquzagvl 
gggggcuulgrlposuliugkpgbmugnrkoulbgaslgkzgwulubzvbrlxgiko gkpg.kzuvagfvt
ggggglkbgmszbgbmufj”--Nrzxj,gXukzxj,grjg89j]

gggggggggggggggggggg“Kxlrgfu vxorvgmvgrogaskgzknuairkj”

gggggggggg[“Unuztgfu vogmvagrbagzunuzauj”--RbvorvlgWzknuz.j]

BmragragbmugzuvaklgqmtgIorbkfvimsagavr gkpgko gbmvbgIvzluv uagmv gksb klu
bmugov.kszagkpgMuzisoua,grlgmvnrlxguzv rivbu giklaulbgpzkfgful,gbmvbgra
bkgavt,gkwrlrklgvl gbmugikszvxugkpgys xrlxjggBmragakgnrxkzksagpvlitgkp
Ivzluv uagawzvlx,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gvlirulbotgpzkfgbmugrfws uliugkpgbmkau
qmkgfv ugwzkpuaarklgkpgclkqou xugvl gbmurzgrffuvaszv.ougauop-ikliurbj
VUakwgqvagaubgbkgavougqrbmgbqkgkbmuzgaovnua;gbmug.stuzgvacu gbmugprzabgkp
bmuaugqmvbgmugikso g k;gmu,gbkgulmvliugmragkqlgnvosu,gwzkfrau gfkslbvrla
vl gfvznuoa,gavtrlxgmugikso g kgbmragvl gbmvb,gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmvb;gbmu
auikl gavr gvagfsimgkpgmrfauopgkzgfkzu:gqmulgrbgivfugbkgVUakw’agbszl,gvl 
bmvbgmugqvagvoakgvacu gqmvbgmugikso g k;g“Lkbmrlx,”gavr gmu,g“pkzgbmuau
bqkgmvnugbvculgswgvoog.upkzugfu;gbmutgclkqgunuztbmrlxj”ggAkgmvagrb
mvwwulu grlgbmugaimkkogkpgwmrokakwmt:gbmugwzr ugkpgbmkaugqmkgvbbzr.sbu 
bmugivwvirbtgkpgvoogbmrlxagbkgbmugmsfvlgfrl gizuvbu grlgkbmuza,gksbgkp
 uawrbugvl gufsovbrkl,gbmragkwrlrkl,gbmvbgrbgragivwv.ougkpglkbmrlx:gbmu
klugfvrlbvrlgbmugavfuguhbzufugrlgrxlkzvliugbmvbgbmugkbmuzag kgrl
clkqou xu;gbkgfvcugrbgsl ulrv.otgfvlrpuabgbmvbgfvlgragrffk uzvbu
bmzksxmksb,gvl givlglunuzgabkwg.sbgkpgluiuaarbtgvl gbmugqvlbgkpgv.rorbt
bkgwzkiuu gpszbmuzj




IMVWBUZgHRR

KPgWMTARKXLKFT

Vofkabgvoogbmugkwrlrklagqugmvnugvzugbvculgklgvsbmkzrbtgvl gbzsab;gvl 
‘braglkbgvfraa;gqugikso glkbgimkkaugqkzaugbmvlg.tgkszauonuagrlgakgquvcgvl
vxujggBmvbgrfvxugkpgAkizvbua’g raikszaua,gqmrimgmragpzrul agmvnu
bzvlafrbbu gbkgsa,gqugvwwzknugswklglkgkbmuzgviikslbgbmvlgvgzunuzuliugbk
ws.origavlibrkl:g‘braglkbgviikz rlxgbkgkszgkqlgclkqou xu;gbmutgvzuglkb
vpbuzgkszgqvt;grpgvltbmrlxgkpgbmugcrl gamkso gawzrlxgswglkq,gpuqgful
qkso gnvosugbmufjggQug raiuzlglkgxzviuagbmvbgvzuglkbgwkrlbu gvl gwsppu 
ksbgvl grlpovbu g.tgvzb;gasimgvagxor ugklgrlgbmurzgkqlgwszrbtgvl 
arfworirbtguvarotguaivwugakgxzkaagvgarxmbgvagksza;gbmutgmvnugvg uorivbu
vl gikliuvou g.uvsbt,gasimgvagzuesrzuagvgiouvzgvl gwszrpru garxmbgbk
 raiknuzgrbagauizubgorxmbjggRaglkbgarfworirbt,gvagqugbvcugrb,
iksarl-xuzfvlgbkgpkootgvl gvgesvorbtgkpgzuwzkvim?ggAkizvbuagfvcuagmra
aksogfknugvglvbszvogvl gikffklgfkbrkl:gvgwuvavlbgavr gbmra;gvgqkfvlgavr 
bmvb;gmugmvaglunuzgvlt.k tgrlgmragfksbmg.sbgivzbuza,gykrluza,gik..ouza,
vl gfvakla;gmragvzugrl sibrklagvl garfrorbs uag zvqlgpzkfgbmugfkabgikffkl
vl gclkqlgvibrklagkpgful;gunuztgklugsl uzabvl agmrfjggQugamkso glunuz
mvnugzuikxlrau gbmuglk.rorbtgvl gawoul kszgkpgmragv frzv.ougikliuwbrkla
sl uzgakgfuvlgvgpkzf;gqu,gqmkgbmrlcgvoogbmrlxagokqgvl gpovbgbmvbgvzuglkb
uounvbu ,g.tgouvzlu g kibzrlu,gvl gqmkg raiuzlglkgzrimuag.sbgrlgwkfwgvl 
amkqjggBmragqkzo gkpgkszagragklotgpkzfu gpkzgkabulbvbrkl:gfulgvzugklot
wsppu gswgqrbmgqrl ,gvl gvzug.vl ru gbkgvl gpzkgorcugbullra-.vooajggMu
wzkwkau gbkgmrfauopglkgnvrlgvl gr ougpvlirua;gmrag uarxlgqvagbkgpszlram
sagqrbmgwzuiuwbagvl gbmrlxagbmvbgfkzugzuvootgvl gprbotgauznugbkgbmugsau
kpgorpu;

ggggggggggggggggggggggg“Auznvzugfk sf,gprlufesugbuluzu,
ggggggggggggggggggggLvbszvfesugauesrj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Bkgcuuwgvgysabgfuvl,gbkgk.auznugvgysabgorfrb,
gggggggggggggggvl gbkgpkookqgLvbszuj”--Osivl,grrjg381j]

Mugqvagvoakgvoqvtagklugvl gbmugavfu,gvl gzvrau gmrfauop,glkbg.tgabvzba
.sbg.tgikfwouhrkl,gbkgbmugmrxmuabgwrbimgkpgnrxksz;gkz,gbkgavtg.ubbuz,
fkslbu glkbgvbgvoo,g.sbgzvbmuzg.zksxmbg kql,gzu siu ,gvl gas.yuibu gvoo
vawuzrbruagvl g rpprisobruagbkgmragkzrxrlvogvl glvbszvogikl rbrkl;gpkzgrl
Ivbkg‘bragfkabgfvlrpuabgbmvbg‘bragvgwzkiu szuguhbul u gpvzg.utkl gbmu
ikffklgqvtagkpgful:grlgbmug.zvnuguhwokrbagkpgmragorpu,gvl grlgmrag uvbm,
qugprl gmrfgvoqvtagfkslbu gswklgbmugxzuvbgmkzau;gqmuzuvagbmugkbmuzgunuz
izuuwagswklgbmugxzksl ,gvl gqrbmgvgxulbougvl gkz rlvztgwviu,gbzuvbagkp
bmugfkabgsaupsogfvbbuza,gvl g.uvzagmrfauop,g.kbmgvbgmrag uvbmgvl grlgbmu
zs uabg rpprisobruagbmvbgikso gwzuaulbgbmufauonua,grlgbmugkz rlvztgqvtgkp
msfvlgorpuj

Rbgmvagpvooulgksbgquoogbmvbgbmugfvlgfkabgqkzbmtgbkg.ugclkqlgvl gbkg.u
wzuaulbu gbkgbmugqkzo gpkzguhvfwougamkso g.ugmugkpgqmkfgqugmvnugbmugfkab
iuzbvrlgclkqou xu;gmugmvag.uulgwzru grlbkg.tgbmugfkabgiouvz-arxmbu gful
bmvbgunuzgquzu;gbmugbuabrfklruagqugmvnugkpgmrfgvzugv frzv.oug.kbmgrl
pr uorbtgvl gpsoluaajgg‘Bragvgxzuvbgbmrlxgbmvbgmugqvagv.ougakgbkgkz uz
bmugwszugrfvxrlvbrklagkpgvgimro ,gbmvb,gqrbmksbgvobuzrlxgkzgqzuabrlx
bmuf,gmugbmuzu.tgwzk siu gbmugfkabg.uvsbrpsoguppuibagkpgkszgakso:gmu
wzuaulbagrbglurbmuzguounvbu glkzgzrim;gmugklotgzuwzuaulbagrbgaksl ,g.sb
vaaszu otgqrbmgvg.zracgvl gpsoogmuvobmjgg.tgbmuaugikffklgvl glvbszvo
awzrlxa,g.tgbmuaugkz rlvztgvl gwkwsovzgpvlirua,gqrbmksbg.urlxgfknu gkz
wsbgksb,gmugaubgswglkbgklotgbmugfkabgzuxsovz,g.sbgbmugfkabgmrxmgvl 
nrxkzksag.uorupa,gvibrkla,gvl gfvlluzagbmvbgunuzgquzujgg‘Bragmugqmk
.zksxmbgvxvrlgpzkfgmuvnul,gqmuzugamugokabgmuzgbrfu,gmsfvlgqra kf,gbk
zuabkzugmuzgbkgfvlgqrbmgqmkfgmuzgfkabgysabgvl gxzuvbuabg.sarluaagoruaj
Auugmrfgwouv g.upkzugmragys xua;gk.auznug.tgqmvbgzuvaklagmugzksauagmra
ikszvxugbkgbmugmvdvz agkpgqvz;gqrbmgqmvbgvzxsfulbagmugpkzbrpruagmra
wvbruliugvxvrlabgivosflt,gbtzvllt,g uvbm,gvl gbmugwuznuzauluaagkpgmra
qrpu:gtksgqroogprl glkbmrlxgrlgvoogbmrag.kzzkqu gpzkfgvzbagvl gairuliua:
bmugarfwouabgfvtgbmuzug raiknuzgbmurzgkqlgfuvlagvl gabzulxbm;g‘braglkb
wkaar.ougfkzugbkgzubrzugkzgbkgizuuwgfkzugokqjggMugmvag klugmsfvlglvbszugv
xzuvbgcrl luaagrlgamkqrlxgrbgmkqgfsimgrbgivlg kgkpgrbauopj

Qugvzugvoogkpgsagzrimuzgbmvlgqugbmrlcgqugvzu;g.sbgqugvzugbvsxmbgbkg.kzzkq
vl gbkg.ux,gvl g.zksxmbgswgfkzugbkgfvcugsaugkpgqmvbgragvlkbmuz’agbmvlgkp
kszgkqljggFvlgivlgrlglkbmrlxgprhgmrfauopgbkgmragvibsvogluiuaarbt:gkp
wouvaszu,gquvobm,gvl gwkquz,gmugxzvawagvbgfkzugbmvlgmugivlgmko ;gmra
xzuu rluaagragrlivwv.ougkpgfk uzvbrkljggVl gRgprl gbmvbgrlgiszrkarbtgkp
clkqrlxgmugragbmugavfu;gmugisbagmrfauopgksbgfkzugqkzcgbmvlgmugivlg k,gvl 
fkzugbmvlgmugluu agbkg k:guhbul rlxgbmugsbrorbtgkpgclkqou xugbkgbmugpsoo
kpgrbagfvbbuz:

ggggg“Sbgkflrsfgzuzsf,garigorbbuzvzsfgeskesu,grlbufwuzvlbrvgov.kzvfsaj”

ggggg[“Qugivzztgrlbufwuzvliugrlbkgbmugabs tgkpgorbuzvbszu,gvagquoogva
gggggrlbkgunuztbmrlxguoauj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g106j]

Vl gBvirbsagmv gzuvaklgbkgikfful gbmugfkbmuzgkpgVxzrikovgpkzgmvnrlx
zuabzvrlu gmuzgaklgrlgmragbkkgnrkoulbgvwwubrbugpkzgouvzlrlxj

Bragvgxkk ,grpg sotgiklar uzu ,gqmrimgmvagrlgrb,gvagbmugkbmuzgxkk agkp
fulgmvnu,gvgxzuvbg uvogkpgnvlrbtgvl gquvcluaa,gwzkwuzgvl glvbszvogbk
rbauop,gvl gbmvbgikabagnuztg uvzjggRbagviesrarbrklgragpvzgfkzugmvdvz ksa
bmvlgbmvbgkpgvoogkbmuzgfuvbgkzg zrlc;gpkz,gvagbkgkbmuzgbmrlxa,gqmvbgqu
mvnug.ksxmbgqugivzztgmkfugrlgakfugnuaauo,gvl gbmuzugmvnugpsoogouraszugbk
uhvfrlugkszgwszimvau,gmkqgfsimgqugamvooguvbgkzg zrlcgkpgrb,gvl gqmul:g.sb
airuliuagqugivl,gvbgbmugnuztgprzab,gabkqgrlbkglkgkbmuzgnuaauogbmvlgbmu
akso;gqugaqvookqgbmufgrlg.strlx,gvl gzubszlgpzkfgbmugfvzcub,gurbmuz
vozuv tgrlpuibu gkzgvful u :gbmuzugvzugakfugbmvbgklotg.sz ulgvl 
knuzimvzxugbmugabkfvim,grlabuv gkpglkszramrlx;gvl ,gfkzuknuz,gakfugbmvb,
sl uzgikokszgkpgiszrlx,gwkraklgsajggRgmvnug.uulgwouvau ,grlgwoviuagqmuzu
Rgmvnug.uul,gbkgauugfulgrlg unkbrklgnkqgrxlkzvliugvagquoogvagimvabrbt,
wknuzbt,gvl gwulrbuliu:g‘bragvoakgvgxuo rlxgkpgkszgslzsotgvwwubrbua,gbk
.oslbgbmragiswr rbtgbmvbgawszagsagklgbkgbmugabs tgkpg.kkca,gvl gbk
 uwzrnugbmugaksogkpgbmragnkoswbsksagikfwoviulitgbmvbgbricouagsagqrbmgbmu
kwrlrklgkpgclkqou xu:gvl g‘bragwoulvzrotgbkgviikfworamgbmugnkqgkp
wknuzbt,gbkgv  gslbkgrbgbmvbgkpgbmugfrl jggQugluu gorbboug kibzrlugbk
ornugvbgkszguvau;gvl gAkizvbuagbuvimuagsagbmvbgbmragragrlgsa,gvl gbmugqvt
mkqgbkgprl grb,gvl gbmugfvlluzgmkqgbkgsaugrb:gVoogkszgaspprirulitgqmrim
uhiuu agbmuglvbszvogragquoo-lrxmgaswuzposksagvl gnvrl:g‘bragfsimgrpgrb
 kuaglkbgzvbmuzg.sz ulgvl gisf.uzgsagbmvlg kgsagxkk :

ggggggggggggggg“Wvsiragkwsaguabgorbuzragv gfulbufg.klvf:”

gggggggggg[“Orbbougouvzlrlxgragluu u gbkgpkzfgvgaksl gfrl j”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g106j]

‘bragvgpunuzramguhiuaagkpgbmugfrl ;gvgbufwuabsksagvl gslesrubgrlabzsfulbj
 kg.sbgzuikoouibgtkszauop,gvl gtksgqroogprl grlgtkszauopglvbszvo
vzxsfulbagvxvrlabg uvbm,gbzsu,gvl gbmugprbbuabgbkgauznugtksgrlgbrfugkp
luiuaarbt:g‘bragbmutgbmvbgfvcugvgwuvavlb,gvl gqmkouglvbrkla,g rugqrbmgva
fsimgprzfluaagvagvgwmrokakwmuzjggAmkso gRgmvnug ru gouaagimuuzpsoot
.upkzugRgmv gzuv gIriuzk’agBsaisovlgEsvabrklua?ggRg.uorunuglkb;gvl gqmul
Rgprl gftauopgvbgbmug.uab,gRgwuziurnugbmvbgftgbklxsugragulzrimu grl uu ,
.sbgftgikszvxugorbbougkzglkbmrlxguounvbu g.tgbmuf;gbmvbgragysabgvaglvbszu
pzvfu grbgvbgprzab,gvl g upul agrbauopgvxvrlabgbmugiklporibgklotgvpbuzgv
lvbszvogvl gkz rlvztgqvtjgg.kkcagmvnuglkbgakgfsimgauznu gfugpkz
rlabzsibrklgvaguhuziraujggQmvbgrpgclkqou xu,gbztrlxgbkgvzfgsagqrbmgluq
 upuliuagvxvrlabglvbszvogrliklnulruliua,gmvagfkzugrfwzrlbu grlgksz
pvliruagbmurzgqurxmbgvl gxzuvbluaa,gbmvlgmuzgzuvaklagvl gas.boubruagbk
auiszugsagpzkfgbmuf?ggBmutgvzugas.boubrua,grl uu ,gqrbmgqmrimgamugkpbul
vovzfagsagbkgorbbougwszwkaujgg kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgfvltgaorxmbgvl 
pzrnkoksa,gvl ,grpgluvzotguhvfrlu ,grlikzwkzuvogvzxsfulba,gbmugiokauab
vl gqrauabgvsbmkzagaivbbuzgv.ksbgklugxkk gklu:gbmutgvzug.sbgnuz.vogesrzca
vl gpvooviruagbkgvfsaugvl gxsoogsa:g.sbgpkzvafsimgvagrbgfvtg.ugqrbmgakfu
wzkprb,gRgqroogarpbgbmufglkgpszbmuz;gfvltgkpgbmvbgakzbgvzugmuzugvl gbmuzu
 rawuzau gswgvl g kqlgbmrag.kkc,gurbmuzg.kzzkqu gkzg.tgrfrbvbrklj
Bmuzupkzugklugksxmbgbkgbvcugvgorbbougmuu glkbgbkgivoogbmvbgpkziugqmrimgra
klotgvgwzubbtgclvicgkpgqzrbrlx,gvl gbmvbgakor gqmrimgragklotgamvzw,gkz
bmvbgxkk gqmrimgragklotgprlu:

ggggggggggggggg“Esvugfvxragxsabvbvgesvfgwkbvbv,g uouibvlb,”

gggggggggg[“Qmrimgfkzug uorxmbgrlgbmugbvabrlxgbmvlgrlg.urlxg zslcj”
ggggggggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijgEsvuaj,gnjg5j]

unuztbmrlxgbmvbgwouvauag kuaglkbglkszram:

ggggggggggggggg“S.rglklgrlxulrr,gau gvlrfrgluxkbrsfgvxrbszj”

ggggg[“Qmuzugbmugesuabrklgraglkbgv.ksbgbmugqrb,g.sbgv.ksbgbmugaksoj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g75j]

Bkgauugbmugbzks.ougbmvbgAuluivgxrnuagmrfauopgbkgpkzbrptgmrfauopgvxvrlab
 uvbm;gbkgauugmrfgakgaquvbgvl gwvlbgbkgmvz ulgvl gulikszvxugmrfauop,gvl 
.sabougakgoklxgswklgbmragwuzim,gqkso gmvnugouaaulu gmragzuwsbvbrklgqrbm
fu,gmv gmuglkbgnuztg.zvnuotgmuo gmrfauopgvbgbmugovabjggMragakgvz ulbgvl 
pzuesulbgvxrbvbrklag raiknuzgbmvbgmugqvagrlgmrfauopgrfwubsksagvl 
wvaarklvbu,

gggggggggg“Fvxlsagvlrfsagzufraarsagokesrbsz,gubgauiszrsagjggjggj
gggggggggglklguabgvorsagrlxulrk,gvorsagvffkgikokz;”

ggggg[“Vgxzuvbgikszvxugawuvcagfkzugivofotgvl gfkzugauiszuotjggBmuzugra
ggggglkbgklugikfwouhrklgpkzgbmugqrbgvl gvlkbmuzgpkzgbmugfrl j”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwjg114,g115]

mugfsabg.ugiklnrliu gvbgmragkqlguhwulau;gvl gmugrlgakfugakzbg raiknuza
bmvbgmugqvagmvz gwzuaau g.tgmraguluftjggWosbvzim’agqvt,g.tgmkqgfsimgrbgra
fkzug ra vrlpsogvl gpvzbmuzgabzubimu ,gra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gakgfsimgfkzu
fvlotgvl gwuzasvarnu:gvl gRgvfgvwbgbkg.uorunugbmvbgmragaksogmv gfkzu
vaaszu gvl gfkzugzuxsovzgfkbrklajggBmugklugfkzugamvzw,gwzricagvl gfvcua
sagabvzb,gvl gfkzugbksimuagbmugakso;gbmugkbmuzgfkzugiklabvlbotgakor ,
pkzfa,guabv.oramua,gvl gaswwkzbagsa,gvl gfkzugbksimuagbmugsl uzabvl rlxj
Bmvbgzvnramuagbmugys xfulb,gbmragqrlagrbjggRgmvnugorcuqraugauulgkbmuz
qzrbrlxa,gtubgfkzugzunuzuliu gbmvlgbmuau,gbmvbgrlgbmugzuwzuaulbvbrklgkp
bmugiklporibgbmutgfvrlbvrlgvxvrlabgbmugbufwbvbrklagkpgbmugpouam,gwvrlb
bmuf,gakgamvzw,gakgwkquzpsogvl grlnrlir.ou,gbmvbgqugkszauonua,gqmkgvzugkp
bmugikffklgmuz ,gvzugvagfsimgbkgqkl uzgvbgbmugabzvlxuluaagvl gslclkql
pkziugkpgbmurzgbufwbvbrkl,gvagvbgbmugzuarabrlxgrbj

Bkgqmvbgul g kgqugakgvzfgkszauonuagqrbmgbmragmvzluaagkpgairuliu?ggOubgsa
okkcg kqlgswklgbmugwkkzgwukwougbmvbgqugauugaivbbuzu gswklgbmugpviugkpgbmu
uvzbm,gwzklugvl grlbulbgswklgbmurzg.sarluaa,gbmvbglurbmuzgclkqgVzrabkbou
lkzgIvbk,guhvfwouglkzgwzuiuwb;gpzkfgbmuauglvbszugunuztg vtguhbzviba
uppuibagkpgiklabvlitgvl gwvbruliu,gfkzugwszugvl gfvlotgbmvlgbmkaugqugak
rlesrarbrnuotgabs tgrlgbmugaimkkoa:gmkqgfvltg kgRgkz rlvzrotgauugqmk
aorxmbgwknuzbt?ggmkqgfvltgqmkg uarzugbkg ru,gkzgqmkg rugqrbmksbgvovzfgkz
zuxzub?ggMugqmkgraglkqg rxxrlxgrlgftgxvz ul,gmvagbmragfkzlrlxg.szru gmra
pvbmuzgkzgmragakljggBmugnuztglvfuag.tgqmrimgbmutgivoog rauvauagaquubul
vl gfkoorptgbmugamvzwluaagkpgbmuf:gbmugwmbmrarigragqrbmgbmufglkgfkzugbmvl
vgiksxm,g taulbuztg.sbgvgokkauluaa,gbmugwouszratg.sbgvgabrbim;gvl ,gva
bmutgxulbotglvfugbmuf,gakgbmutgwvbrulbotgul szugbmuf;gbmutgvzugnuztgxzuvb
vl gxzrunksagrl uu gqmulgbmutgmrl uzgbmurzgkz rlvztgov.ksz;gbmutglunuz
cuuwgbmurzg.u ag.sbgbkg ru:

gggggggggg“Arfwouhgroovgubgvwuzbvgnrzbsagrlgk.aiszvfgubgakouzbuf
ggggggggggairulbrvfgnuzavguabj”

ggggg[“Bmvbgknuzbgvl garfwougnrzbsugragiklnuzbu grlbkgvlgk.aiszugvl 
gggggas.bougairuliuj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g95j]

Rgqvagqzrbrlxgbmragv.ksbgbmugbrfugqmulgvgxzuvbgokv gkpgkszgrlbuabrlu
bzks.ouagpkzgaunuzvogfklbmagovtgqrbmgvoogrbagqurxmbgswklgfu;gRgmv gbmu
uluftgvbgftg kkzgklgklugar u,gvl gbmugpzuu.kkbuza,gqkzaugulufrua,gklgbmu
kbmuz,

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgvzfra,gau gnrbrra,giuzbvbsz;”

ggggg[“Bmugprxmbgraglkbgqrbmgvzfa,g.sbgqrbmgnriuaj”--Auluiv,gUwjg95j]

vl gsl uzqulbgvoogakzbagkpgfrorbvztgrlyszruagvbgkliu:

ggggggggg“Mkabragv uabg uhbzvgovunvesugvgwvzbugbrful saj
ggggggggggNrirlkesugfvokgbuzzubgsbzsfesugovbsaj”

ggggg[“Zrxmbgvl goupbgvgpkzfr v.ouguluftgragbkg.ugpuvzu ,gvl gbmzuvbula
gggggfugklg.kbmgar uagqrbmgrfwul rlxg vlxuzj”--Knr ,g ugWklbk,grjg3,g57j]

Vgfklabzksagqvz!ggKbmuzgqvzagvzug.ulbgvxvrlabgabzvlxuza,gbmragvxvrlab
rbauop,g uabzktrlxgrbauopgqrbmgrbagkqlgwkrakljggRbgragkpgakgfvorxlvlbgvl 
zsrlksagvglvbszu,gbmvbgrbgzsrlagrbauopgqrbmgbmugzuab;gvl gqrbmgrbagkql
zvxugfvlxouagvl gbuvzagrbauopgbkgwruiuajggQugfkzugkpbulgauugrbg raakonu
kpgrbauopgbmvlgbmzksxmgaivzirbtgkpgvltgluiuaavztgbmrlxgkzg.tgpkziugkpgbmu
uluftjggVoog rairworlugunv uagrb;grbgikfuagbkgikfwkaugau rbrkl,gvl gra
rbauopgpsoogkpgrb;gqkso gimvabraug rak.u ruliu,gvl grbauopgragbmu
uhvfwou;gvl ,gufwoktu gpkzgbmug upuliugkpgbmugovqa,gzu.uoagvxvrlabgrba
kqljggQmvbgvgikl rbrklgvzugqugrl!ggKszgwmtarigfvcuagsagaric!

gggggggggggggggggggg“Lkabzugfvoga’ufwkrakllu
gggggggggggggggggggg sgauikszages’klgostg klluj”

ggggggggggggggg“Uhswuzvbgfvxra,gvuxzuairbesugfu ul kj”

ggggg[“Kszg rauvaugragwkraklu gqrbmgrbagnuztgzufu rua”--VUluv ,ghrrjg46j]

ggggggggggggggg“Kflrvgpvl v,glupvl v,gfvokgwuzfrabvgpszkzu,
gggggggggggggggYsabrprivfglk.ragfulbufgvnuzbuzug ukzsfj”

ggggg[“Zrxmbgvl gqzklx,gvoogamsppou gbkxubmuzgrlgbmragqricu gpszt,gmvnu
ggggg uwzrnu gsagkpgbmugxk a’gwzkbuibrklj”
gggggg--Ivbsoosa,g ugLswbrragWuourgubgBmubr ka,gNjg405j]

Rlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgbmuaugwkwsovzgfvov rua,gklugfvtg rabrlxsramgbmugaksl 
pzkfgbmugaric;g.sbgqmulgbmutgikfugbkgiklbrlsu,gvagkszagmvnug klu,gbmu
qmkoug.k tgragbmulgrlpuibu gpzkfgmuv gbkgpkkb;glkgwvzbgragpzuugpzkf
ikzzswbrkl,gpkzgbmuzugraglkgvrzgbmvbgfulgakgxzuu rotg zvqgrlgbmvb
 rppsauagrbauopgakgakklgvl gbmvbgwulubzvbuagakg uuwgvagbmvbgkpgoriuliuj
Kszgvzfruagklotgas.arabgvl gvzugcuwbgbkxubmuzg.tgbmugiufulbgkp
pkzurxluza;gpkzgkpgPzulimfulgbmuzugraglkqglkgiklabvlbgvl gzuxsovzgvzftgbk
.ugfv ujggQmvbgvgamvfugrbgra!gbmuzugraglkgoklxuzgvltg rairworlug.sbgqmvb
qugauugrlgbmugfuziulvztgako ruzajggVagbkgkszauonua,gkszgikl sibgragvb
 raizubrkl,gvl gbmvbglkbgkpgbmugimrup,g.sbgunuztgklugvbgmragkqljggBmu
xuluzvogmvagvgmvz uzgxvfugbkgwovtgqrbmrlgbmvlgmugmvagqrbmksb;gmugrbgra
qmkgmvagbkgpkookq,gbkgikszbgbmugako ruza,gbkgxrnugqvtgbkgbmuf;gmugvoklu
mvagbkgk.ut:gvoogbmugzuabgrpg rakosbrklgvl gpzuugoriuliujggRbgwouvauagfu
bkgk.auznugmkqgfsimgwsaroovlrfrbtgvl gikqvz riugbmuzugragrlgvf.rbrkl;g.t
mkqgv.yuibgvl gauznrougqvtagrbgfsabgvzzrnugvbgrbagul ;g.sbgrbg rawouvaua
fugbkgauugxkk gvl gxuluzksaglvbszua,gvl gbmvbgvzugivwv.ougkpgysabriu,
unuztg vtgikzzswbu grlgbmugfvlvxufulbgvl gikffvl gkpgbmragiklpsarklj
Oklxgbkouzvbrklg.uxubagmv.rb;gmv.rb,giklaulbgvl grfrbvbrkljggQugmv 
roo-pkzfu gaksoagulksxm,gqrbmksbgawkrorlxgbmkaugbmvbgquzugxuluzksagvl 
xkk ;gakgbmvb,grpgqugmko gkl,gbmuzugqroogaivziuotgzufvrlgvltgqrbmgqmkfgbk
rlbzsabgbmugmuvobmgkpgbmragAbvbugkpgksza,grlgivaugpkzbslugimvliugbk
zuabkzugrb:

gggggggggggggg“Msligavobufgunuzakgysnulufgasiiszzuzugauiok,
gggggggggggggggLugwzkmr.ubuj”

ggggg[“Pkz.r glkb,gvbgouvab,gbmvbgbmragtkslxgfvlgzuwvrzgbmragzsrlu gvxuj”
gggggg--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjgg500jggFklbvrxlugwzk.v.otgzupuzagbkgMulzt,gcrlx
gggggkpgLvnvzzu,gvpbuzqvz agMulztgRNj]

Qmvbgmvag.uikfugkpgbmugko gwzuiuwb,g“Bmvbgako ruzagksxmbgfkzugbkgpuvz
bmurzgimrupgbmvlgbmuguluft”?--[NvouzrsagFvhrfsa,gUhbjg2j]--vl gkpgbmvb
qkl uzpsoguhvfwou,gbmvbgvlgkzimvz g.urlxguliokau gqrbmrlgbmugwzuirlibagkp
vgivfwgkpgbmugZkfvlgvzft,gqvagauulgvbgbmurzg raok xfulbgbmugluhbg vtgrl
bmugavfugikl rbrkl,glkbgvlgvwwou,gbmksxmgzrwugvl g uorirksa,g.urlxgwsoou 
kpp,g.sbgvoogoupbgbkgbmugwkaauaakz?ggRgikso gqramgbmvbgkszgtksbm,grlabuv 
kpgbmugbrfugbmutgawul grlgouaagpzsrbpsogbzvnuoagvl gouaagmklkszv.ou
ufwoktfulba,gqkso g.uabkqgklugmvopgkpgbmvbgbrfugrlg.urlxgvlgutu-qrbluaa
kpglvnvoguhwokrba,gsl uzgakfugxkk givwbvrlgkpgZmk ua,gvl gbmugkbmuzgmvop
rlgk.auznrlxgbmug rairworlugkpgbmugBszcramgvzfrua;gpkzgbmutgmvnugfvlt
 rppuzuliuagvl gv nvlbvxuagknuzgksza;gklugkpgbmuaugra,gbmvbgkszgako ruza
.uikfugfkzugoriulbrksagrlguhwu rbrkla,gbmurzagfkzugbufwuzvbugvl 
irzisfawuib;gpkzgbmugbmupbagvl grlakouliruagikffrbbu gswklgbmugikffkl
wukwou,gqmrimgvzugklotgwslramu gqrbmgvgis xuogrlgwuviu,gvzugivwrbvogrl
qvz;gpkzgvlguxxgbvculg.tgvgBszcramgako ruzgqrbmksbgwvtrlxgpkzgrb,gprpbt
.okqagqrbmgvgabricgragbmugprhu gzvbu;gpkzgvltbmrlxguoau,gkpgqmvbgakzbgkz
mkqgbzrnrvogakunuz,glkbgluiuaavztgbkglkszramfulb,gbmutgvzugwzuaulbot
rfwvou gkzg.umuv u gqrbmksbgfuzitjggRgvfgvabklramu ,grlgbmugmrabkztgkp
Auorf,gbmugfkabgizsuogiklesuzkzgbmvbgunuzgqva,gbkgauugbmvbgqmulgmu
as. su gUxtwb,gbmug.uvsbrpsogxvz ulagv.ksbg vfvaisag.urlxgvoogkwul,gvl 
rlgvgiklesuzu govl ,gvl gmragvzftgulivfwu gswklgbmugnuztgwoviu,gamkso g.u
oupbgslbksimu g.tgbmugmvl agkpgbmugako ruza,g.tgzuvaklgbmutgmv glkb
zuiurnu gbmugarxlvogkpgwroovxuj

.sbgragbmuzugvltg rauvaugrlgvgxknuzlfulbgbmvbgrbgragqkzbmgqmrougbkgwmtari
qrbmgasimgvgfkzbvog zsx?--[rjujggvagirnrogqvzj]--Lk,gavr gPvnklrsa,glkb
unulgbmugbtzvllrivogsaszwvbrklgkpgvgIkffklquvobmjggWovbk,gorcuqrau,gqroo
lkbgiklaulbgbmvbgvgfvlgamkso gnrkovbugbmugwuviugkpgmragikslbztgrlgkz uz
bkgiszugrb,gvl g.tglkgfuvlagvwwzknuagkpgvgzupkzfvbrklgbmvbg rabsz.agvl 
mvdvz agvoo,gvl gbmvbgragbkg.ugwszimvau gvbgbmugwzriugkpgbmugirbrdula’
.okk gvl gzsrl;g ubuzfrlrlxgrbgbkg.ugbmug sbtgkpgvgxkk gwvbzrkbgrlgasimgv
ivaugbkgoubgrbgvoklu,gvl gklotgbkgwzvtgbkgXk gpkzgmraguhbzvkz rlvzt
vaarabvliu:gvl gmugauufagbkg.ugvlxztgqrbmgmragxzuvbgpzrul g rkl,gpkz
mvnrlxgwzkiuu u gakfuqmvbgvpbuzgvlkbmuzgfvlluzjggRgqvagvgWovbklrabgrl
bmragwkrlbg.upkzugRgcluqgbmuzugmv gunuzg.uulgasimgvgfvlgvagWovbkgrlgbmu
qkzo jggVl grpgbmragwuzaklgksxmbgv.akosbuotgbkg.ugzuyuibu gpzkfgksz
akirubtg(mugqmkg.tgbmugarliuzrbtgkpgmragiklairuliugfuzrbu gpzkfgbmu
 rnrlugpvnkszgbkgwulubzvbugakgpvzgrlbkgbmugImzrabrvlgorxmb,gbmzksxmgbmu
slrnuzavog vzcluaagqmuzurlgbmugqkzo gqvagrlnkonu grlgmragbrfu),gRg kglkb
bmrlcgrbg.uikfuagsagbkgasppuzgkszauonuagbkg.ugrlabzsibu g.tgvgmuvbmul,
mkqgxzuvbgvlgrfwrubtgrbgraglkbgbkguhwuibgpzkfgXk gvltgzuorupgarfwotgmra
kqlgvl gqrbmksbgkszgik-kwuzvbrkljggRgkpbulg ks.b,gqmubmuzgvfklxabgakgfvlt
fulgvagfu  ougrlgasimgvppvrza,gbmuzugraglkbgbkg.ugpksl gakfugklugkpgak
quvcgsl uzabvl rlxgvagbkgmvnug.uulgzuvootgwuzasv u gbmvbgmugqulbgbkqvz a
zupkzfvbrklg.tgbmugqkzabgkpg upkzfvbrkla;gvl gv nvliu gbkqvz agavonvbrkl
.tgbmugfkabguhwzuaagivsauagbmvbgqugmvnugkpgfkabgvaaszu g vflvbrkl;gbmvb
.tgknuzbmzkqrlxgxknuzlfulb,gbmugfvxrabzvit,gvl gbmugovqa,grlgqmkau
wzkbuibrklgXk gmvagwoviu gmrf,g.tg rafuf.uzrlxgmragxkk gfkbmuz,gvl 
xrnrlxgmuzgorf.agbkg.ugfvlxou g.tgmuzgko gulufrua,gproorlxgpzvbuzlvo
muvzbagqrbmgwvzzrir vogmvbzu a,givoorlxg unroagvl gpszruagbkgmragvr ,gmu
ivlgvaarabgbmugfkabgmkotgaquubluaagvl gysabriugkpgbmug rnrlugovqj
Vf.rbrkl,gvnvzriu,gizsuobt,gvl gzunulxugmvnuglkbgaspprirulbglvbszvo
rfwubskarbtgkpgbmurzgkql;goubgsag.vrbgbmufgqrbmgbmugxokzrksagbrbouagkp
ysabriugvl g unkbrkljggBmuzugivllkbgvgqkzaugabvbugkpgbmrlxag.ugrfvxrlu 
bmvlgqmuzugqricu luaagikfuagbkg.ugouxrbrfvbu,gvl gvaasfua,gqrbmgbmu
fvxrabzvbua’gwuzfraarkl,gbmugiokvcgkpgnrzbsu:

gggggggggg“Lrmrogrlgawuirufgpvoovirsa,gesvfgwzvnvgzuorxrk,
ggggggggggs.rg ukzsfglsfulgwzhbul rbszgaiuouzr.saj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgmvagvgfkzug uiurnrlxgpviugbmvlgpvoaugzuorxrkl,gqmuzugbmu
ggggg rnrlrbtgkpgbmugxk agragk.aiszu g.tgizrfuaj”--Ornt,ghhhrhjg16j]

Bmuguhbzufuabgakzbgkpgrlysabriu,gviikz rlxgbkgWovbk,ggragqmuzugbmvbgqmrim
ragslysabgamkso g.ugzuwsbu gpkzgysabj

Bmugikffklgwukwougbmulgasppuzu gnuztgfsim,gvl glkbgwzuaulbg vfvxugklot:

gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg“Sl resugbkbra
ggggggggggggggggggggSaesugv ukgbsz.vbszgvxzra,”

gggggggggg[“Asimgxzuvbg rakz uzagknuzbvcugkszgpruo agklgunuztgar uj”
ggggggggggg--Nrzxro,gUiokxj,grjgRRj]

.sbgpsbszugbkk;gbmugornrlxgquzugbkgasppuz,gvl gakgquzugbmutgqmkgquzugtub
sl.kzl;gbmutgabzrwbgbmuf,gvl giklauesulbotgftauop,gunulgkpgmkwu,gbvcrlx
pzkfgbmufgvoogbmutgmv govr gswgrlgabkzugbkgornugklgpkzgfvltgtuvza:

ggggggggg“Esvugluesuslbgauisfgpuzzugvsbgv. siuzu,gwuz slb;
ggggggggggUbgizufvbgrlaklbuagbsz.vgaiuouabvgivavagjggjggj
ggggggggggFszraglsoovgpr ua,gaesvoulbgwkwsovbr.sagvxzrj”

ggggg[“Qmvbgbmutgivllkbg.uvzgvqvt,gbmutgawkro;gvl gbmugqricu gfk.g.szl
gggggmvzfouaagmksaua;gqvooagivllkbgauiszugbmurzgfvabuza,gvl gbmugpruo a
gggggvzugaesvor gqrbmg unvabvbrklj”
gggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grrrjg10,g35;gIovs rvlsa,gRlgUsbtkwj,grjg244j]

.uar uagbmragamkic,gRgasppuzu gkbmuza:gRgsl uzqulbgbmugrliklnulruliua
bmvbgfk uzvbrklg.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrbgrlgasimgvg rauvau:gRgqvagzk..u gkl
voogmvl a;gbkgbmugXmr.uoorlugRgqvagvgXsuowm,gvl gbkgbmugXsuowmgv
Xmr.uoorlu;gklugkpgftgwkubaguhwzuaauagbmragnuztgquoo,g.sbgRgclkqglkb
qmuzugrbgraj

ggggg[“AkgBkzruagivoou gfugQmrx,gvl gQmrxagvgBkztj”--Wkwu,gvpbuzgMkzviuj]

Bmugarbsvbrklgkpgftgmksau,gvl gftgpzrul orluaagqrbmgftglurxm.ksza,
wzuaulbu gfugqrbmgklugpviu;gftgorpugvl gftgvibrklagqrbmgvlkbmuzjggBmut
 r glkbgovtgpkzfvogviisavbrklagbkgftgimvzxu,gpkzgbmutgmv glkgpksl vbrkl
pkzgakg krlx;gRglunuzgmr ugftgmuv gpzkfgbmugovqa,gvl gqmkunuzgqkso gmvnu
esuabrklu gfu,gqkso gmvnug klugmrfauopgvgxzuvbuzgwzuys riugbmvlgfu;gbmut
quzugklotgfsbugasawrirklagbmvbgquzugqmrawuzu gv.ksb,gqmrimglunuzgqvlb
vwwuvzvliugrlgakgiklpsau gvgfrhbszu,glkgfkzugbmvlgulnrksagkzgr ougmuv aj
Rgikffklotgftauopgoul gvgmvl gbkgrlyszrksagwzuasfwbrklagbmvbgpkzbslu
aivbbuzagv.zkv gvxvrlabgfu,g.tgvgqvtgRgmvnugunuzgmv gkpgunv rlxgbk
ysabrpt,guhisau,gkzguhwovrlgftauop;gikliurnrlxgbmvbgrbgquzugbkgikfwzkfrau
ftgiklairuliugbkgwouv grlgrbag.umvop:

ggggggggggggggg“Wuzawrisrbvagulrfgvzxsfulbvbrkluguounvbsz;”

ggggg[“Pkzgwuzawrisrbtgragouaaulu g.tgvzxsfulbj”
gggggg(“Bmugiouvzluaagkpgvgivsaugragioks u g.tgvzxsfulbvbrklj”)
ggggg--Iriuzk,g ugLvbjgg ukzj,grrrjgg4j]

vl ,gvagrpgunuztgklugavqgvagiouvzotgrlbkgfugvagRg kgftauop,grlabuv gkp
zubrzrlxgpzkfgvlgviisavbrkl,gRgabuwgswgbkgfuubgrb,gvl gzvbmuzgxrnugrb
akfugcrl gkpgikokszg.tgvlgrzklrivogvl gaikpprlxgiklpuaarkl,grpgRg kglkb
arbgbkbvootgfsbu,gvagkpgvgbmrlxglkbgqkzbmgftgvlaquzjgg.sbgasimgvagokkc
swklgbmragcrl gkpg.umvnrkszgkpgfrlugvagbkkgmvsxmbtgvgiklpr uliu,gmvnugva
orbbougcrl luaagpkzgfugvagbmutgqmkgrlbuzwzubgbmugquvcluaagkpgvl
rl upular.ougivsau;glvfuot,gbmugxzuvbgpkoca,gbkqvz agqmkfgqvlbgkp
as.fraarklgragbmugxzuvbgpvsob,gmvzamgbkqvz agvoogysabriugbmvbgclkqagvl 
puuoagrbauop,gvl graglkbgas.fraarnugmsf.ou,gvl gaswworvlb;gRgmvnugkpbul
clkicu gftgmuv gvxvrlabgbmragwroovzjggAkgrbgragbmvbgvbgqmvbgbmulg.upuoo
fu,gvlgvf.rbrksagfvlgqkso gmvnugmvlxu gmrfauop,gvl gvgiknubksagfvlgqkso 
mvnug klugbmugavfujggRgmvnuglkgfvlluzgkpgivzugkpgxubbrlx;

ggggggggg“Argfrmr,gesk glsliguab,gubrvfgfrlsa;gubgfrmrgnrnvf
ggggggggggEsk gaswuzuabgvunr,gargesr gaswuzuaaugnkoulbg rr:”

ggggg[“RpgRgfvtgmvnugqmvbgRglkqgkql,gkzgunulgouaa,gvl gfvtgornugpkz
gggggftauopgqmvbgkpgorpugzufvrla,grpgbmugxk agxzvlbgfugzufvrlrlxgtuvzaj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg18,g107j]

.sbgbmugokaauagbmvbg.upvoogfug.tgbmugrlysztgkpgkbmuza,gqmubmuzg.tgbmupb
kzgnrkouliu,gxkgvofkabgvagluvzgftgmuvzbgvagbmutgqkso gbkgbmvbgkpgbmugfkab
vnvzrirksagfvljggBmugkppuliugbzks.ouagfu,gqrbmksbgikfwvzrakl,gfkzugbmvl
bmugokaajggVgbmksavl gaunuzvogakzbagkpgfraimrupagpuoogswklgfugrlgbmugluic
kpgklugvlkbmuz;gRgikso gfkzugimuuzpsootgmvnug.kzlugbmufgvoogvbgkliuj

Rgqvagvozuv tgiklar uzrlxgbkgqmkf,gvfklxabgftgpzrul a,gRgfrxmbgikffrbgv
luiuaarbksagvl g raizu rbu gko gvxu;gvl gmvnrlxgbszlu gftgutuagesrbu
zksl ,gRgpksl gftauopg.vzujggBkgoubgklu’agauopgpvoogwosfwg kql,gvl gpzkf
akgxzuvbgvgmurxmb,grbgksxmbgbkg.ugrlgbmugvzfagkpgvgakor ,gnrxkzksa,gvl 
pkzbslvbugpzrul amrw:gbmuaugvzugnuztgzvzu,grpgbmuzug.ugvltjggVbgovab,gR
avqgbmvbgrbgqvagavpuabgpkzgfugbkgbzsabgbkgftauopgrlgftgluiuaarbt;gvl grp
rbgamkso gakgpvoogksb,gbmvbgRgamkso g.ug.sbgswklgiko gbuzfagrlgPkzbslu’a
pvnksz,gRgamkso gakgfsimgbmugfkzugwzuaarlxotgzuikfful gfugbkgftgkql,gvl 
vbbvimgftauopgvl gokkcgbkgftauopgvoogbmugfkzugiokauotjggFulgklgvoo
kiivarklagbmzkqgbmufauonuagswklgpkzurxlgvaarabvliugbkgawvzugbmurzgkql,
qmrimgragvoklugiuzbvrlgvl gaspprirulbgbkgmrfgqmkgclkqagmkqgbmuzuqrbmgbk
vzfgmrfauopjggUnuztgklugzslaguoauqmuzu,gvl gbkgbmugpsbszu,gpkzvafsimgva
lkgklugragvzzrnu gvbgmrfauopjggVl gRgqvagavbrapru gbmvbgbmutgquzu
wzkprbv.ougrliklnulruliua;gpkzvafsimgva,gprzab,groogaimkovzagvzugbkg.u
v fklramu gqrbmgbmugzk ,gqmulgzuvaklgqrooglkbg k,gvagvgizkkcu gwruiugkp
qkk grag.tgprzugvl gabzvrlrlxgzu siu gbkgabzvrxmbluaajggRgmvnugvgxzuvb
qmrougwzuvimu gbkgftauopgbkgabricgiokaugbkgftgkqlgikliuzla,gvl gauwvzvbu
ftauopgpzkfgbmugvppvrzagkpgkbmuza;gtubgRgvfgabroogbszlrlxgftgutuagvar uj
Vg.kq,gvgpvnkszv.ougqkz ,gvgcrl gokkcgpzkfgvgxzuvbgwuzaklgbufwbagfu;gkp
qmrimgXk gclkqagrpgbmuzugragaivzirbtgrlgbmuaug vta,gvl gqmvbgbmut
arxlrptjggR,gfkzuknuz,gqrbmksbgqzrlcorlxgftgpkzumuv ,gmuvzculgbkgbmu
wuzasvarklagkppuzu gfu,gbkg zvqgfugrlbkgbmugfvzcubwoviu,gvl gakgxulbot
zupsau,gvagrpgRgquzugmvopgqroorlxgbkg.ugknuzikfujggLkqgpkzgakgrl kirougv
awrzrbg.okqagvzugzuesrzu ;gbmragnuaauogqmrimgbmsagimkwagvl giouvnua,gvl 
ragzuv tgbkgpvoogklugwruiugpzkfgvlkbmuz,gfsabgmvnugbmugmkkwagpkziu g kql
qrbmgxkk gaksl gabzkcuagkpgvgfvooubjggAuikl ot,gbmvbgbmragviir ulbgauznu 
fugpkzguhuziraugbkgwzuwvzugfugpkzgqkzau,grpgR,gqmkg.kbmg.tgbmug.uluprbgkp
pkzbslu,gvl g.tgbmugikl rbrklgkpgftgfvlluza,gmkwu gbkg.ugvfklxgbmugovab,
amkso gmvwwulgbkg.ugklugkpgbmugprzabgvaavrou g.tgbmragabkzf;grlabzsibrlx
ftauopg.ubrfuagbkgiklabzvrlgftgorpu,gvl gprbgrbgpkzgvgluqgabvbujggBmu
bzsugor.uzbtgragbkg.ugv.ougbkg kgqmvbgvgfvlgqroogqrbmgmrfauop:

gggggggggg“Wkbulbraarfsaguab,gesrgaugmv.ubgrlgwkbuabvbuj”

ggggg[“Mugragfkabgwkbulbgqmkgragfvabuzgkpgmrfauopj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g94j]

Rlgvlgkz rlvztgvl gesrubgbrfu,gvgfvlgwzuwvzuagmrfauopgpkzgfk uzvbugvl 
ikffklgviir ulba;g.sbgrlgbmugiklpsarklgqmuzurlgqugmvnug.uulgpkzgbmuau
bmrzbtgtuvza,gunuztgPzulimfvl,gqmubmuzgwuzaklvogkzgrlgxuluzvo,gauua
mrfauopgunuztgmkszgswklgbmugwkrlbgkpgbmugbkbvogzsrlgvl gknuzbmzkqgkpgmra
pkzbslu:g.tgakgfsimgbmugfkzugksxmbgmugbkgmvnugmragikszvxugaswworu gqrbm
bmugabzklxuabgvl gfkabgnrxkzksagwzknrarklajggOubgsagbmvlcgpkzbslu,gbmvb
mvaglkbgfv ugsagornugrlgvlguppufrlvbu,gr ou,gvl govlxsramrlxgvxu;gakfu
qmkgikso glunuzgmvnug.uulgakg.tgkbmuzgfuvlagqroog.ugfv ugpvfksag.tgbmurz
frapkzbsluajggVagRgauo kfgzuv grlgmrabkzruagbmugiklpsarklagkpgkbmuz
abvbuagqrbmksbgzuxzubgbmvbgRgqvaglkbgwzuaulb,gbmug.ubbuzgbkgiklar uz
bmuf,gakg kuagftgiszrkarbtgfvcugfugrlgakfugakzbgwouvaugftauopgrlgauurlx
qrbmgftgkqlgutuagbmraglkbv.ougawuibviougkpgkszgws.orig uvbm,grbagpkzfgvl 
atfwbkfa;gvl garliugRgivllkbgmrl uzgrb,gRgvfgiklbulbgbkgmvnug.uul
 uabrlu gbkg.ugwzuaulbgbmuzurl,gvl gbmuzu.tgbkgrlabzsibgftauopjggAkg k
quguvxuzotgiknubgbkgauu,gbmksxmg.sbgrlgamv kqgvl gbmugpv.ouagkpgbmuvbzua,
bmugwkfwgkpgbzvxrigzuwzuaulbvbrklagkpgmsfvlgpkzbslu;g‘braglkbgqrbmksb
ikfwvaarklgvbgqmvbgqugmuvz,g.sbgqugwouvaugkszauonuagrlgzksarlxgksz
 rawouvaszu,g.tgbmugzvzrbtgkpgbmuaugwrbrv.ougunulbajggLkbmrlxgbricoua
bmvbg kuaglkbgwrlimjggVl gxkk gmrabkzrvlagacrwgknuz,gvagabvxlvlbgqvbuz
vl g uv gauv,givofglvzzvbrkla,gbkgzubszlgbkgau rbrkla,gbkgqvza,gbkgqmrim
bmutgclkqgbmvbgqugrlnrbugbmufj

RgesuabrklgqmubmuzgRgivlg uiulbotgiklpuaagqrbmgmkqgafvoogvgavizrpriugkp
rbagzuwkaugvl gbzvlesroorbtgRgmvnugwvaau gknuzgv.knugbmugklugmvopgkpgft
orpugvfr gbmugzsrlgkpgftgikslbztjggRgoul gftauopgftgwvbruliugakfuqmvbgbkk
imuvw,grlgviir ulbagbmvbg kglkbgwzrnvbuotgvaavrogfu;gvl g kglkbgakgfsim
zuxvz gqmvbgbmutgbvcugpzkfgfu,gvagqmvbgzufvrlagavpu,g.kbmgqrbmrlgvl 
qrbmksbjggBmuzugragikfpkzbgrlgunv rlx,gklugqmrougbmra,gvlkbmuzgqmrou
bmvb,gkpgbmugunroagbmvbgvzugounuoou gvbgkszauonuagbkk,gvbgovab,g.sbgvb
wzuaulbgmszbgkbmuzagklotgv.ksbgsa;gvagvoak,gbmvbgrlgfvbbuzagkpgws.ori
rlbuzuab,gbmugfkzugslrnuzavootgftgvppuibrklgrag rawuzau ,gbmugquvcuzgrb
ra:gbkgqmrimgfvtg.ugv  u ,gbmvbgrbgragmvopgbzsu:

ggggggggggggggg“Bvlbsfguhgws.oriragfvoragaulbrfsa,
gggggggggggggggesvlbsfgv gwzrnvbvagzuagwuzbrlub;”

ggggg[“Qugvzugklotgakgpvzgaular.ougkpgws.origunroagvagbmutgzuawuibgksz
gggggwzrnvbugvppvrzaj”--Ornt,ghhhjg44j]

vl gbmvbgbmugmuvobmgpzkfgqmrimgqugpuoogqvagakgroo,gbmvbgrbauopgzuorunua
bmugzuxzubgqugamkso gmvnugpkzgrbjggRbgqvagmuvobm,g.sbgklotgrlgikfwvzrakl
qrbmgbmugaricluaagbmvbgmvagasiiuu u grb:gqugvzuglkbgpvooulgpzkfgvltgxzuvb
murxmb;gbmugikzzswbrklgvl g.zrxvl vxugqmrimgvzugrlg rxlrbtgvl gkppriu
auufgbkgfugbmugouvabgaswwkzbv.ou:gqugvzugouaagrlyszrksaotgzrpou grlgv
qkk gbmvlgrlgvgwoviugkpgauiszrbtjggRbgqvagvlgslrnuzavogyslibszugkp
wvzbrisovzgfuf.uza,guvimgikzzswbu g.tgufsovbrklgkpgbmugkbmuza,gvl gfkab
kpgbmufgqrbmgko gsoiuza,gbmvbglurbmuzgzuiurnu glkzgzuesrzu gvltgiszuj
Bmragiklnsoarkl,gbmuzupkzu,gzuvootgfkzugvlrfvbu gbmvlgwzuaau gfu,g.tgbmu
vaarabvliugkpgftgiklairuliu,gqmrimgqvaglkbgklotgvbgwuviugqrbmrlgrbauop,
.sbguounvbu ,gvl gRg r glkbgprl gvltgzuvaklgbkgikfwovrlgkpgftauopjggVoak,
vagXk glunuzgaul agunroa,gvltgfkzugbmvlgxkk a,gv.akosbuotgwszugbkgful,
ftgmuvobmgiklbrlsu gvbgbmvbgbrfugfkzugbmvlgsasvootgxkk ;gvl ,gvagRgivl
 kglkbmrlxgqrbmksbgrb,gbmuzugvzugpuqgbmrlxagbmvbgRgivllkbg kgqrbmgrbj
Rbgvppkz u gfugfuvlagbkgzksaugswgvoogftgpvisobrua,gvl gbkgovtgftgmvl 
.upkzugbmugqksl gbmvbgqkso guoau,gwuzv nulbszu,gmvnugxklugpvzbmuz;gvl gR
uhwuzruliu ,grlgftgwvbruliu,gbmvbgRgmv gakfugabvl gvxvrlabgpkzbslu,gvl 
bmvbgrbgfsabg.ugvgxzuvbgamkicgikso gbmzkqgfugksbgkpgbmugav  oujggRg kglkb
avtgbmragbkgwzknkcugmuzgbkgxrnugfugvgfkzugnrxkzksagimvzxu:gRgvfgmuz
msf.ougauznvlb,gvl gas.frbgbkgmuzgwouvaszu:goubgmuzg.ugiklbulb,grlgXk ’a
lvfujggVfgRgaular.ougkpgmuzgvaavsoba?ggTua,gRgvfjg.sb,gvagbmkaugqmkgvzu
wkaauaau gvl gkwwzuaau gqrbmgakzzkqgakfubrfuagasppuzgbmufauonua,
lunuzbmuouaa,g.tgrlbuznvoagbkgbvabugvgorbbougwouvaszu,gvl gvzugakfubrfua
aszwzrau gqrbmgvgafrou,gakgmvnugRgakgfsimgwkquzgknuzgftauop,gvagbkgfvcu
ftgkz rlvztgikl rbrklgesrubgvl gpzuugpzkfg rabsz.rlxgbmksxmba;gtubgR
asppuzgftauop,gqrbmvo,g.tgprbagbkg.ugaszwzrau gqrbmgbmugabrlxagkpgbmkau
slwouvarlxgrfvxrlvbrklagbmvbgvaavsobgfu,gqmroabgRgvfgvzfrlxgftauopgbk
 zrnugbmufgvqvt,gkzgvbgouvabgbkgqzuabougqrbmgbmufj

.sbg.umko gvlkbmuzgvxxzvnvbrklgkpgbmugunrogqmrimg.upuoogfugrlgbmugbvrogkp
bmugzuab:g.kbmgqrbmksbg kkzagvl gqrbmrlgRgqvagvaavrou gqrbmgvgfkab
nrkoulbgwovxsu,gnrkoulbgrlgikfwvzraklgkpgvoogkbmuza;gpkzgvagaksl g.k rua
vzugas.yuibgbkgfkzugxzrunksagfvov rua,gpkzvafsimgvagbmut,gvzuglkbgbkg.u
pkziu g.sbg.tgasim,gakgftgnuztgmuvobmpsogvrz,gqmuzuglkgiklbvxrkl,gmkqunuz
luvz,grlgbmugfufkztgkpgfvl,gunuzgbkkcgpkkbrlx,gikfrlxgbkg.ugikzzswbu ,
wzk siu gabzvlxuguppuiba:

ggggggggg“Frabvgaulsfgubgysnulsfg ulaulbszgpsluzv;glsoosf
ggggggggggAvunvgivwsbgWzkauzwrlvgpsxrb;”

ggggg[“Ko gvl gtkslxg rugrlgfrhu gmuvwajggIzsuogWzkauzwrlugpkz.uvza
ggggglkluj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grjg28,g19j]

Rgmv gbkgasppuzgbmragwouvavlbgikl rbrkl,gbmvbgbmugarxmbgkpgftgmksau,gqva
pzrxmbpsogbkgfu;gqmvbunuzgRgmv gbmuzugqvagqrbmksbgxsvz ,gvl goupbgbkgbmu
fuzitgkpgvltgklugqmkgqramu gbkgbvcugrbjggRgftauop,gqmkgvfgakgmkawrbv.ou,
qvagrlgnuztgxzuvbg rabzuaagpkzgvgzubzuvbgpkzgftgpvfrot;gvg rabzvibu 
pvfrot,gpzrxmbpsog.kbmgbkgrbagpzrul agvl grbauop,gvl gproorlxgunuztgwoviu
qrbmgmkzzkzgqmuzugrbgvbbufwbu gbkgaubbou,gmvnrlxgbkgamrpbgrbagv.k ugak
akklgvagvltgklu’agprlxuzg.uxvlg.sbgbkgvimu;gvoog rauvauagvzugbmul
iklios u gbkg.ugbmugwovxsu,gvl gwukwoug kglkbgabvtgbkguhvfrlugqmubmuz
bmutgvzugakgkzglkjggVl gbmugfraimrupgkl’bgragbmvb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugzsoua
kpgvzb,grlgunuztg vlxuzgbmvbgvgfvlgikfuagluvz,gmugfsabgsl uzxkgv
esvzvlbrlugrlgpuvzgkpgbmugunro,gtkszgrfvxrlvbrklgvoogbmugqmrougbkzfulbrlx
tksgvbgwouvaszu,gvl gbszlrlxgunulgtkszgmuvobmgrbauopgrlbkgvgpunuzjggTub
voogbmragqkso gmvnugfsimgouaagvppuibu gfugmv gRglkbgqrbmvog.uulgikfwuoou 
bkg.ugaular.ougkpgbmugasppuzrlxagkpgkbmuza,gvl gfrauzv.otgbkgauznugarh
fklbmagbkxubmuzgpkzgvgxsr ugbkgbmragivzvnvl;gpkzgRgivzztgftgkqlgvlbr kbua
qrbmrlgftauop,gqmrimgvzugzuakosbrklgvl gwvbruliujggVwwzumularkl,gqmrimgra
wvzbrisovzotgpuvzu grlgbmrag rauvau,g kuaglkbgfsimgbzks.ougfu;gvl ,grp
.urlxgvoklu,gRgamkso gmvnug.uulgbvcul,grbgmv g.uulgvgouaagimuuzouaagvl 
fkzugzufkbug uwvzbszu;g‘bragvgcrl gkpg uvbmgbmvbgRg kglkbgbmrlcgkpgbmu
qkzabgakzb;g‘bragikffklotgamkzb,gabswr ,gqrbmksbgwvrl,gvl giklakou g.t
bmugws.origikl rbrkl;gqrbmksbgiuzufklt,gqrbmksbgfkszlrlx,gqrbmksbgv
izkq jgg.sbgvagbkgbmugwukwougv.ksbgsa,gbmugmsl zu bmgwvzbgkpgbmufgikso 
lkbg.ugavnu :

gggggggggggggg“Nr uvag uauzbvesugzuxlv
gggggggggggggggWvabkzsf,gubgoklxugavobsagovbuesugnvivlbuaj”

ggggg[“Tksgqkso gauugamuwmuz a’gmvslbag uauzbu ,gvl gpvzgvl gqr ugufwbt
gggggwvabszuaj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrrjg476j]

Rlgbmragwoviugftgovzxuabgzunulsugragfvlsvo:gqmvbgvlgmsl zu gfulgwoksxmu 
pkzgfu,govtgvgoklxgbrfugpvookqj

.sbgbmul,gqmvbguhvfwougkpgzuakosbrklg r gquglkbgauugrlgbmugarfworirbtgkp
voogbmragwukwou?ggXuluzvoot,gunuztgklugzulksliu gvoogivzugkpgorpu;gbmu
xzvwua,gbmugwzrlirwvogquvobmgkpgbmugikslbzt,gzufvrlu gslbksimu gswklgbmu
nrlua;gunuztgfvlgrl rppuzulbotgwzuwvzu gpkzgvl guhwuibu g uvbm,gurbmuz
bk-lrxmbgkzgbk-fkzzkq,gqrbmgvgikslbulvliugvl gnkriugakgpvzgpzkfgpuvz,
vagrpgbmutgmv gikfugbkgbuzfagqrbmgbmragluiuaarbt,gvl gbmvbgrbgqvagvl
slrnuzavogvl grlunrbv.ougaulbuliujgg‘Bragvoqvtagasim;g.sbgmkqgaoul uz
mko gmvagbmugzuakosbrklgkpg trlx?ggBmug rabvliugvl g rppuzuliugkpgvgpuq
mksza,gbmugakougiklar uzvbrklgkpgikfwvlt,gzul uzagrbagvwwzumularkl
nvzrksagbkgsajggK.auznugbmuaugwukwou;g.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmutg rugrlgbmugavfu
fklbm,gimro zul,gtkslxgwukwou,gvl gko ,gbmutgvzuglkgoklxuzgvabklramu gvb
rb;gbmutglkgoklxuzgovfulbjggRgavqgakfugqmkgquzugvpzvr gkpgabvtrlxg.umrl ,
vagrlgvg zuv psogakorbs u;gvl gRg r glkbgikffklotgk.auznugvltgkbmuz
akorirbs ugvfklxabgbmufgbmvlgbmvbgkpgauwsobszu;gbmutgquzugbzks.ou gbkgauu
bmug uv g.k ruagaivbbuzu gv.ksbgbmugpruo a,gvbgbmugfuzitgkpgbmugqro 
.uvabagbmvbgwzuaulbotgpokicu gbmrbmuzjggMkqg rppuzrlxgvzugbmugpvliruagkp
ful;gbmugLukzrbua,gvglvbrklgas.yuibu g.tgVouhvl uz,gbmzuqgbmug.k ruagkp
bmurzg uv grlbkgbmug uuwuabgvl gouaagpzuesulbu gwvzbgkpgbmurzgqkk a,gkl
wszwkaugbkgmvnugbmufgbmuzuguvbul;gbmugklotgauwsobszugzuwsbu gmvwwt
vfklxabgbmufjggAkfu,gqmkgquzugtubgrlgmuvobm,g sxgbmurzgkqlgxzvnua;gkbmuza
ovr gbmufauonuag kqlgrlgbmufgqmroabgvornu;gvl gvgov.kszuzgkpgfrlu,grl
 trlx,gqrbmgmragmvl agvl gpuubgwsoou gbmuguvzbmgswklgmrfjggQvaglkbgbmra
bkgluabougvl gaubbougmrfauopgbkgaouuwgvbgxzuvbuzguvau?ggVg.zvnuztgrlgakfu
akzbgorcugbmvbgkpgbmugZkfvlgako ruzagqmk,gvpbuzgbmug.vbbougkpgIvllvu,
quzugpksl gqrbmgbmurzgmuv agbmzsabgrlbkgmkouagrlgbmuguvzbm,gqmrimgbmut
mv gfv u,gvl grlgasppkivbrlxgbmufauonua,gqrbmgbmurzgkqlgmvl agwsoou gbmu
uvzbmgv.ksbgbmurzguvzajggRlgamkzb,gvgqmkougwzknrliugqva,g.tgbmugikffkl
savxu,gvbgkliug.zksxmbgbkgvgikszauglkbmrlxgrlpuzrkzgrlgsl vslbu luaagbk
bmugfkabgabs ru gvl gwzufu rbvbu gzuakosbrklj

Fkabgkpgbmugrlabzsibrklagkpgairuliugbkgulikszvxugsagmuzurlgmvnugrlgbmuf
fkzugkpgamkqgbmvlgkpgpkziu,gvl gfkzugkpgkzlvfulbgbmvlgkpguppuibjggQugmvnu
v.vl klu gLvbszu,gvl gqroogbuvimgmuzgqmvbgbkg k;gbuvimgmuzgqmkgakgmvwwrot
vl gakgauiszuotgikl sibu gsa;gvl grlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gpzkfgbmugpkkbabuwagkp
muzgrlabzsibrkl,gvl gbmvbgorbbougqmrim,g.tgbmug.uluprbgkpgrxlkzvliu,
zufvrlagkpgmuzgrfvxugrfwzrlbu grlgbmugorpugkpgbmragzsabrigzksbgkp
slwkoramu gful,gairuliugragiklabzvrlu gunuztg vtgbkg.kzzkqgwvbbuzlagpkz
muzg rairwouagkpgiklabvlit,gbzvlesroorbt,gvl grllkiuliujggRbgragwzubbtgbk
auugbmvbgbmuaugwuzakla,gpsoogkpgakgfsimgprlugclkqou xu,gmvnugbkgrfrbvbu
bmragpkkoramgarfworirbt,gvl gbmragrlgbmugwzrfvztgvibrklagkpgnrzbsu;gvl 
bmvbgkszgqra kfgfsabgouvzlgunulgpzkfg.uvabagbmugfkabgwzkprbv.ou
rlabzsibrklagrlgbmugxzuvbuabgvl gfkabgluiuaavztgikliuzlagkpgkszgorpu;
va,gmkqgqugvzugbkgornugvl g ru,gfvlvxugkszgwzkwuzbt,goknugvl g.zrlxgsw
kszgimro zul,gfvrlbvrlgysabriu:gvgarlxsovzgbuabrfkltgkpgmsfvlgrlprzfrbt;
vl gbmvbgbmragzuvaklgqugakgmvl ougvbgkszgwouvaszu,gprl rlxgunuzfkzugakfu
 rnuzarbtgvl glknuobt,gouvnuagrlgsaglkgvwwvzulbgbzviugkpglvbszujggFul
mvnug klugqrbmglvbszugvagwuzpsfuzagqrbmgkroa;gbmutgmvnugakwmrabrivbu gmuz
qrbmgakgfvltgvzxsfulbvbrklagvl gpvz-pubimu g raikszaua,gbmvbgamugra
.uikfugnvzrv.ougvl gwvzbrisovzgbkguvim,gvl gmvagokabgmuzgwzkwuz,
iklabvlb,gvl gslrnuzavogpviu;gakgbmvbgqugfsabgauucgbuabrfkltgpzkfg.uvaba,
lkbgas.yuibgbkgpvnksz,gikzzswbrkl,gkzg rnuzarbtgkpgkwrlrklajggRbgra,
rl uu ,gbzsugbmvbgunulgbmuaugbmufauonuag kglkbgvoqvtagxkguhvibotgrlgbmu
wvbmgkpglvbszu,g.sbgqmuzurlgbmutgaquznu,grbgragakgorbbougbmvbgtksgfvt
voqvtagauugbmugbzvic;gvagmkzauagbmvbgvzugou gfvcugfvltg.ksl agvl 
isznuba,g.sbg‘bragvoqvtagvbgbmugoulxbmgkpgbmugmvobuz,gvl gabroogpkookq
mrfgbmvbgouv agbmuf;gvl gvagvgtkslxgmvqcgbvcuagrbagporxmb,g.sbgabroo
sl uzgbmugzuabzvrlbgkpgrbagbubmuz:

gggggggggg“Uharorv,gbkzfulba,g.uooa,gfkz.ka,glvspzvxrvgfu rbvzugjggjggj
ggggggggggsbglsookgaragfvokgbrzkj”

ggggg[“Bkgfu rbvbugswklg.vlramfulba,gbkzbszua,gqvza,g rauvaua,gvl 
gggggamrwqzuica,gbmvbgbmksgfvtuabglkbg.ugvglknriugrlgvltg ravabuzj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g91,g107j]

Qmvbgxkk gqroogbmragiszrkarbtg kgsa,gbkgvlbrirwvbugvoogbmugrliklnulruliua
kpgmsfvlglvbszu,gvl gbkgwzuwvzugkszauonuagqrbmgakgfsimgbzks.ougvxvrlab
bmrlxagqmrim,gwuzv nulbszu,gqrooglunuzg.upvoogsa?

gggggggggg“Wvzufgwvaaragbzrabrbrvfgpvirb,gwvbrgwkaau;”

gggggggggg[“Rbgbzks.ouagfulgvagfsimgbmvbgbmutgfvtgwkaar.otgasppuz,
ggggggggggvagrpgbmutgzuvootg r gasppuzj”--R uf,gr.r j,g74j]

lkbgklotgbmug.okq,g.sbgbmugqrl gkpgbmug.okqgabzrcuagsa:gkz,gorcu
wmzulubrigwukwou--pkzgiuzbvrlotgrbgragvgwmzulat--bkgxkgrffu rvbuotgvl 
qmrwgtkszauop,g.uivsaugrbgfvtgakgpvoogksbgbmvbgPkzbslugfvtgklug vtgfvcu
tksgsl uzxkgrb;gvl gbkgwsbgklgtkszgpszzu gxkqlgvbgFr asffuz,g.uivsaugtks
qroogabvl grlgluu gkpgrbgvbgImzrabfva!ggBmzkqgtkszauonua,gavtgbmut,grlbk
bmuguhwuzruliugkpgvoogbmugunroa,gbmugfkabguhbzufugunroagbmvbgivlgwkaar.ot
.upvoogtks,gvl gakg.ugvaaszu gkpgbmufjggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmugfkabguvat
vl gfkabglvbszvogqvtgqkso g.ugbkg.vlramgunulgbmugbmksxmbagkpgbmuf;gbmut
qrooglkbgikfugakklgulksxm;gbmurzgbzsug.urlxgqrooglkbgiklbrlsugqrbmgsa
oklxgulksxm;gkszgfrl gfsabgoulxbmulgvl guhbul gbmuf;gqugfsabgrlikzwkzvbu
bmufgrlgsag.upkzumvl ,gvl gbmuzugulbuzbvrlgbmuf,gvagrpgbmutgqkso glkb
kbmuzqraugaspprirulbotgwzuaagswklgkszgaulauajgg“Qugamvoogprl gbmufgmuvnt
ulksxmgqmulgbmutgikfu,”gavtagklugkpgkszgfvabuza,gkpglklugkpgbmugbul uz
auiba,g.sbgkpgbmugfkabgaunuzu;g“rlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gpvnkszgbmtauop;g.uorunu
qmvbgwouvauagbmuug.uab;gqmvbgxkk gqroogrbg kgbmuugbkgvlbrirwvbugbmtgroo
pkzbslu,gbkgokaugbmugwzuaulbgpkzgpuvzgkpgbmugpsbszu:gvl gbkgfvcugbmtauop
frauzv.ouglkq,g.uivsaugbmksgvzbgbkg.ugakgrlgbrfu?”ggBmuaugvzugmragqkz aj
Airuliu,grl uu ,g kuagsagklugxkk gkppriugrlgrlabzsibrlxgsaguhvibotgvagbk
bmug rfularklagkpgunroa,

gggggggggggggggggggg“Iszragvisulagfkzbvorvgikz v!”

ggggg[“Wzk.rlxgfkzbvogmuvzbagqrbmgivzuaj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grjg23j]

‘Bquzugwrbtgbmvbgvltgwvzbgkpgbmurzgxzuvbluaagamkso guaivwugkszgaulaugvl 
clkqou xuj

‘Bragiuzbvrlgbmvbgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgbmugwzuwvzvbrklgpkzg uvbmgmva
v frlrabuzu gfkzugbkzfulbgbmvlgbmugbmrlxgrbauopjggRbgqvagkpgko gbzsot
avr ,gvl g.tgvgnuztgys rirksagvsbmkz:

gggggggggg“Frlsagvpprirbgaulasagpvbrxvbrk,gesvfgikxrbvbrkj”

ggggg[“Asppuzrlxgrbauopgouaagvpporibagbmugaulauagbmvlgbmugvwwzumularkl
gggggkpgasppuzrlxj”--Esrlbrorvl,gRlabjgKzvbj,grjg12j]

Bmugaulbrfulbgkpgwzuaulbg uvbmgakfubrfua,gkpgrbauop,gvlrfvbuagsagqrbmgv
wzkfwbgzuakosbrklglkbgbkgvnkr gvgbmrlxgbmvbgragsbbuzotgrlunrbv.ou:gfvlt
xov rvbkzagmvnug.uulgauulgrlgbmugko ulgbrfu,gqmk,gvpbuzgmvnrlxgpksxmb
brfkzksaotgvl groo,gmvnugikszvxuksaotgulbuzbvrlu g uvbm,gkppuzrlxgbmurz
bmzkvbagbkgbmugulufrua’gaqkz gvl g.r  rlxgbmufg uawvbimjggBmugarxmbgkp
psbszug uvbmgzuesrzuagvgikszvxugbmvbgragaokq,gvl giklauesulbotgmvz gbkg.u
xkbjggRpgtksgclkqglkbgmkqgbkg ru,glunuzgbzks.ougtkszauop;glvbszugqroo,gvb
bmugbrfu,gpsootgvl gaspprirulbotgrlabzsibgtks:gamugqrooguhvibotg kgbmvb
.sarluaagpkzgtks;gbvcugtksglkgivzu--

gggggggggggggg“Rliuzbvfgpzsabzv,gfkzbvoua,gpsluzragmkzvf,
gggggggggggggggEsvuzrbragubgesvgarbgfkzagv rbszvgnrvjjjj
gggggggggggggggWkulvgfrlkzgiuzbvfgas.rbkgwuzpuzzugzsrlvf;
gggggggggggggggEsk gbrfuva,gxzvnrsagasabrlsraaug rsj”

ggggg[“Fkzbvoa,grlgnvrlgtksgauucgbkgclkqgbmugsliuzbvrlgmkszgkpg uvbm,
gggggvl g.tgqmvbgimvlluogrbgqroogikfugswklgtksj”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrjg27,g1j
ggggg“‘Bragouaagwvrlpsogbkgsl uzxkgas  ulg uabzsibrkl;g‘bragmvz gbkg.uvz
gggggbmvbgqmrimgtksgoklxgpuvzj”--RliuzbjgVsibj]

Qugbzks.ougorpug.tgbmugivzugkpg uvbm,gvl g uvbmg.tgbmugivzugkpgorpu:gbmu
klugbkzfulba,gbmugkbmuzgpzrxmbagsajggRbgraglkbgvxvrlabg uvbmgbmvbgqu
wzuwvzu,gbmvbgragbkkgfkfulbvztgvgbmrlx;gvgesvzbuzgkpgvlgmksz’agasppuzrlx,
qrbmksbgiklauesuliugvl gqrbmksbg vfvxu,g kuaglkbg uauznuguawuirvo
wzuiuwba:gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gqugwzuwvzugkszauonuagvxvrlabgbmugwzuwvzvbrkla
kpg uvbmjggWmrokakwmtgkz vrlagbmvbgqugamkso gvoqvtagmvnug uvbmg.upkzugksz
utua,gbkgauugvl giklar uzgrbg.upkzugbmugbrfu,gvl gbmulgxrnuagsagzsouagvl 
wzuivsbrklagbkgwzknr ugbmvbgbmragpkzuarxmbgvl gbmksxmbg kgsaglkgmvzf;
ysabgakg kgwmtarirvla,gqmkgbmzkqgsagrlbkg rauvaua,gbkgbmugul gbmutgfvt
mvnugqmuzuklgbkgufwoktgbmurzg zsxagvl gbmurzgvzbjggRpgqugmvnuglkbgclkql
mkqgbkgornu,g‘bragrlysabriugbkgbuvimgsagmkqgbkg ru,gvl gfvcugbmugul 
 rppkzfgpzkfgvoogbmugzuab;grpgqugmvnugclkqlgmkqgbkgornugprzfotgvl 
esrubot,gqugamvoogclkqgmkqgbkg rugakgbkkjggBmutgfvtg.kvabgvagfsimgvagbmut
wouvau:

gggggggggg“Bkbvgwmrokakwmkzsfgnrbvgikffulbvbrkgfkzbraguab;”

ggggg[“Bmugqmkougorpugkpgwmrokakwmuzagragbmugfu rbvbrklgkpg uvbmj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grrjg30j]

.sbgRgpvlitgbmvb,gbmksxmgrbg.ugbmugul ,grbgraglkbgbmugvrfgkpgorpu;g‘bra
rbagul ,grbaguhbzufrbt,g.sbglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,grbagk.yuib;grbgksxmb
rbauopgbkg.ugrbagkqlgvrfgvl g uarxl;grbagbzsugabs tgragbkgkz uz,gxknuzl,
vl gasppuzgrbauopjggRlgbmuglsf.uzgkpgaunuzvogkbmuzgkppriua,gbmvbgbmu
xuluzvogvl gwzrlirwvogimvwbuzgkpgClkqrlxgmkqgbkgornugikfwzumul a,gragbmra
vzbriougkpgClkqrlxgmkqgbkg ru;gvl ,g r glkbgkszgpuvzagxrnugrbgqurxmb,
klugkpgbmugorxmbuabgbkkj

Bkgys xugkpgbmufg.tgsbrorbtgvl g.tgbmuglvcu gbzsbm,gbmugouaaklagkp
arfworirbtgvzuglkbgfsimgrlpuzrkzgbkgbmkaugqmrimgouvzlrlxgbuvimuagsa:glvt,
esrbugbmugiklbzvztjggFulg rppuzgrlgaulbrfulbgvl gpkziu;gqugfsabgouv gbmuf
bkgbmurzgkqlgxkk gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgivwvirbruagvl g.tgnvzrksagqvta:

gggggggggg“Eskgfugikfesugzvwrbgbufwuabva,g upuzkzgmkawuaj”

ggggg[“Qmuzunuzgbmugauvaklgbvcuagfu,(qmuzugbmugbufwuabg zrnuagfu)
gggggbmuzugRgvfgivzzru gvagvgxsuabj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjgr,g15j]

Rglunuzgavqgvltgwuvavlbgvfklxgftglurxm.kszagikxrbvbugqrbmgqmvb
ikslbulvliugvl gvaaszvliugmugamkso gwvaagknuzgmragovabgmksz;glvbszu
buvimuagmrfglkbgbkgbmrlcgkpg uvbmgbroogmugrag trlx;gvl gbmulgmug kuagrb
qrbmgvg.ubbuzgxzviugbmvlgVzrabkbou,gswklgqmkfg uvbmgwzuaauagqrbmgvg ks.ou
qurxmb,g.kbmgkpgrbauopgvl gpzkfgakgoklxgvgwzufu rbvbrkl;gvl ,gbmuzupkzu,
rbgqvagbmugkwrlrklgkpgIvuavz,gbmvbgbmugouvabgwzufu rbvbu g uvbmgqvagbmu
uvaruabgvl gbmugfkabgmvwwt:

ggggg“Wosag koubgesvfgluiuaauguab,gesrgvlbug koub,gesvfgluiuaauguabj”

ggggg[“Mugxzrunuagfkzugbmvlgragluiuaavzt,gqmkgxzrunuag.upkzugrbgra
gggggluiuaavztj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g98j]

Bmugamvzwluaagkpgbmragrfvxrlvbrklgawzrlxagpzkfgkszgiszrkarbt:g‘bragbmsa
qugunuzgrfwu ugkszauonua,g uarzrlxgbkgvlbrirwvbugvl gzuxsovbuglvbszvo
wzuaizrwbajggRbgragklotgpkzgbmug kibkzagbkg rlugqkzaugpkzgrb,gqmulgrlgbmu
.uabgmuvobm,gvl gbkgpzkqlgvbgbmugrfvxugkpg uvbm;gbmugikffklgakzbgabvl grl
luu gkpglkgzufu tgkzgiklakovbrkl,g.sbgysabgrlgbmugamkic,gvl gqmulgbmu
.okqgikfua;gvl giklar uzgkl’bglkgfkzugbmvlgysabgqmvbgbmutgul szujggRagrb
lkbgbmul,gvagqugavt,gbmvbgbmugabkor rbtgvl gqvlbgkpgvwwzumularklgrlgbmu
nsoxvzgxrnugbmufgbmvbgwvbruliugfgwzuaulbgunroa,gvl gbmvbgwzkpksl 
ivzuouaaluaagkpgpsbszugarlrabuzgviir ulba?ggBmvbgbmurzgaksoa,grlg.urlx
fkzugxzkaagvl g soo,gvzugouaagwulubzv.ougvl glkbgakguvarotgfknu ?ggRpgrb
.ugak,goubgsagmuliupkzbm,grlgXk ’aglvfu,gbuvimglkbmrlxg.sbgrxlkzvliu;
‘bragbmugsbfkabgpzsrbgbmugairuliuagwzkfraugsa,gbkgqmrimgbmragabkor rbtgak
xulbotgouv agrbag rairwouaj

Qugmvnuglkgqvlbgkpgxkk gfvabuza,grlbuzwzubuzagkpglvbszvogarfworirbtj
Akizvbuagamvoog.ugklu;gpkz,gvagRgzufuf.uz,gmugawuvcagakfubmrlxgbkgbmra
wszwkaugbkgbmugys xuagqmkgavbgswklgmragorpugvl g uvbmj

ggggg[BmvbgqmrimgpkookqagragbvculgpzkfgbmugVwkokxtgkpgAkizvbuagrlgWovbk,
gggggimvwjgg17,g&ij]

“Rgvfgvpzvr ,gftgfvabuza,gbmvbgrpgRgulbzuvbgtksglkbgbkgwsbgfugbkg uvbm,gR
amvoogiklprzfgbmugimvzxugkpgftgviisauza,gqmrimgra,gbmvbgRgwzubul gbkg.u
qrauzgbmvlgkbmuza,gvagmvnrlxgakfugfkzugauizubgclkqou xugkpgbmrlxagbmvb
vzugv.knugvl g.uokqgsajggRgmvnuglurbmuzgpzuesulbu glkzgclkqlg uvbm,glkz
mvnugunuzgauulgvltgwuzaklgbmvbgmvagbzru grbagesvorbrua,gpzkfgqmkfgbk
rlpkzfgftauopjggAsimgvagpuvzgrb,gwzuaswwkaugbmutgclkqgrb;gvagpkzgftgwvzb,
Rglurbmuzgclkqgqmvbgrbgra,glkzgqmvbgbmutg kgrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo jgg uvbm
ra,gwuzv nulbszu,gvlgrl rppuzulbgbmrlx;gwuzv nulbszu,gvgbmrlxgbkg.u
 uarzu jgg‘Braglunuzbmuouaagbkg.ug.uorunu ,grpgrbg.ugvgbzvlafrxzvbrkl
pzkfgklugwoviugbkgvlkbmuz,gbmvbgrbgragvg.ubbuzrlxgkpgklu’agikl rbrklgbk
xkgvl gornugqrbmgakgfvltgxzuvbgwuzaklag uiuvau ,gvl gbkg.uguhufwbgpzkf
mvnrlxgvltgfkzugbkg kgqrbmgslysabgvl gikzzswbgys xua;grpgrbg.ugvl
vllrmrovbrklgkpgkszg.urlx,g‘bragtubgvg.ubbuzrlxgkpgklu’agikl rbrklgbk
ulbuzgrlbkgvgoklxgvl gwuviuv.ouglrxmb;gqugprl glkbmrlxgfkzugaquubgrlgorpu
bmvlgesrubgzuwkaugvl gvgwzkpksl gaouuwgqrbmksbg zuvfajggBmugbmrlxagbmvb
Rgclkqgbkg.ugunro,gvagbkgrlyszugklu’aglurxm.kszgvl gbkg rak.utgklu’a
aswuzrkz,gqmubmuzgrbg.ugXk gkzgfvl,gRgivzupsootgvnkr ;gasimgvagRg kglkb
clkqgqmubmuzgbmutg.ugxkk gkzgunro,gRgivllkbgpuvzgbmufjggRpgRgvfgbkg ru
vl gouvnugtksgvornu,gbmugxk agvoklugklotgclkqgqmubmuzgrbgqroogxkg.ubbuz
qrbmgtksgkzgqrbmgfujggQmuzupkzu,gvagbkgqmvbgikliuzlagfu,gtksgfvtg kgva
tksgamvoogbmrlcgprbjgg.sbgviikz rlxgbkgftgfubmk gkpgv nrarlxgysabgvl 
wzkprbv.ougbmrlxa,gRgavtgbmvbgtksgqroog kgtkszgiklairuliuagfkzugzrxmbgbk
aubgfugvbgor.uzbt,gslouaagtksgauugpszbmuzgrlbkgftgivsaugbmvlgRg k;gvl ,
ys xrlxgviikz rlxgbkgftgwvabgvibrkla,g.kbmgws.origvl gwzrnvbu,gviikz rlx
bkgftgrlbulbrkla,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzkprbgbmvbgakgfvltgkpgksz
irbrdula,g.kbmgtkslxgvl gko ,g vrotguhbzvibgpzkfgftgiklnuzavbrkl,gvl gbmu
pzsrbgbmvbgtksgvoogzuvwgpzkfgfu,gtksgivllkbgfkzug sotgviesrbgtkszauonua
bkqvz agftgfuzrbgbmvlgrlgkz uzrlxgbmvb,gftgwknuzbtgiklar uzu ,gRgamkso 
.ugfvrlbvrlu gvbgbmugWztbvlvusf,gvbgbmugws.origuhwulau,gvgbmrlxgbmvbgR
mvnugkpbulgclkqlgtks,gqrbmgouaagzuvakl,gxzvlbgbkgkbmuzajgg kglkbgrfwsbu
rbgbkgk.abrlvitgkzg ra vrlgbmvbgRg kglkb,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugisabkf,
aswworivbugvl gxkgv.ksbgbkgfknugtksgbkgikffrauzvbrkljggRgmvnug.kbm
pzrul agvl gcrl zu ,glkbg.urlx,gvagMkfuzgavta,g.uxkbbulgkpgqkk gkzgkp
abklu,glkgfkzugbmvlgkbmuza,gqmkgfrxmbgquoogwzuaulbgbmufauonuag.upkzugtks
qrbmgbuvzagvl gfkszlrlx,gvl gRgmvnugbmzuug uakovbugimro zulgqrbmgqmkfgbk
fknugtksgbkgikfwvaarkl;g.sbgRgamkso g kgvgamvfugbkgkszgirbtgvbgbmugvxugR
vf,gvl grlgbmugzuwsbvbrklgkpgqra kfgqmrimgraglkqgimvzxu gvxvrlabgfu,gbk
vwwuvzgrlgasimgvlgv.yuibgpkzfjggQmvbgqkso gfulgavtgkpgbmugkbmuz
Vbmulrvla?ggRgmvnugvoqvtagv fklramu gbmkaugqmkgmvnugpzuesulbu gft
ouibszua,glkbgbkgzu uufgbmurzgornuag.tgvlgsl.uikfrlxgvibrkl;gvl grlgbmu
qvzagkpgftgikslbzt,gvbgVfwmrwkora,gWkbr uv,g uorv,gvl gkbmuzguhwu rbrkla
qmuzugRgmvnug.uul,gRgmvnuguppuibsvootgfvlrpuabu gmkqgpvzgRgqvagpzkf
auiszrlxgftgavpubtg.tgftgamvfujggRgamkso ,gfkzuknuz,gikfwzkfraugtksz
 sbt,gvl gamkso grlnrbugtksgbkgsl.uikfrlxgbmrlxa;gpkzg‘braglkbgpkzgft
wzvtuzagbkgwuzasv ugtks,g.sbgpkzgbmugwszugvl gakor gzuvaklagkpgysabriuj
Tksgmvnugaqkzlgbkgbmugxk agbkgcuuwgtkszauonuagswzrxmb;gvl grbgqkso gauuf
vagrpgRgasawuibu gtks,gkzgqkso gzuizrfrlvbugswklgtksgbmvbgRg kglkb
.uorunugbmvbgtksgvzugak;gvl gRgamkso gbuabrptgvxvrlabgftauop,glkbgbk
.uorunugbmufgvagRgksxmb,gfrabzsabrlxgbmurzgikl sib,gvl glkbgwszuot
ikffrbbrlxgftgvppvrzgrlbkgbmurzgmvl ajggRgqmkootgzuotgswklgbmuf;gvl gmko 
ftauopgvaaszu gbmutgqroog kgrlgbmragqmvbgamvoog.ugfkabgprbg.kbmgpkzgtks
vl gpkzgfu:gxkk gful,gqmubmuzgornrlxgkzg uv ,gmvnuglkgzuvaklgbkgpuvzgbmu
xk aj”

Raglkbgbmragvlgrllkiulbgimro ’agwouv rlxgkpgvlgslrfvxrlv.ougokpbrluaa,
bzsu,gpzvlc,gvl gysab,gsluhvfwou ?--vl grlgqmvbgvgluiuaarbtgufwoktu !
Bzsot,gmugmv gnuztgxkk gzuvaklgbkgwzupuzgrbg.upkzugbmvbgqmrimgbmugxzuvb
kzvbkzgOtarvagmv gwullu gpkzgmrf:gv frzv.otgiksimu ,grl uu ,grlgbmu
ys rirvztgabtou,g.sbgslqkzbmtgkpgakglk.ougvgizrfrlvojggMv gvgaswworvlb
nkriug.uulgmuvz gksbgkpgbmugfksbmgkpgAkizvbua,gbmvbgokpbtgnrzbsugmv 
abzsicgavrogrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgrbagxokzt;gvl gksxmbgmragzrimgvl gwkquzpso
lvbszugbkgmvnugikffrbbu gmuzg upuliugbkgvzb,gvl ,grlgmuzgmrxmuabgwzkkp,
mvnugzulksliu gbzsbmgvl garfworirbt,gbmugkzlvfulbagkpgmragawuvcrlx,gbk
v kzlgvl g uicgmuzauopgqrbmgbmuguf.uooramfulbagkpgprxszuagvl gbmu
pokszramuagkpgvgwzufu rbvbu gawuuim?ggMug r gnuztgqrauot,gvl gorcu
mrfauop,glkbgbkgikzzswbgbmugbulkzgkpgvlgrlikzzswbgorpu,gvl gakgavizu gvl
rfvxugkpgbmugmsfvlgpkzf,gbkgawrlgksbgmrag uizuwrbs ugvlkbmuzgtuvz,gvl gbk
.ubzvtgbmugrffkzbvogfufkztgkpgbmvbgxokzrksagul jggMugkqu gmragorpuglkbgbk
mrfauop,g.sbgbkgbmuguhvfwougkpgbmugqkzo ;gmv grbglkbg.uulgvgws.ori
 vfvxu,gbmvbgmugamkso gmvnugiklios u grbgvpbuzgvgovdtgvl gk.aiszugfvlluz?
Vaaszu ot,gbmvbgivzuouaagvl grl rppuzulbgiklar uzvbrklgkpgmrag uvbm
 uauznu gbmvbgwkabuzrbtgamkso giklar uzgrbgakgfsimgbmugfkzu,gvagrl uu 
bmutg r ;gvl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgysabgrlgysabriugbmvlgbmvbgqmrimgpkzbslu
kz vrlu gpkzgmragzuikfful vbrkl;gpkzgbmugVbmulrvlagv.kfrlvbu gvoogbmkau
qmkgmv g.uulgivsauzagkpgmrag uvbmgbkgasimgvg uxzuu,gbmvbgbmutgvnkr u 
bmufgvaguhikffslrivbu gwuzakla,gvl gokkcu gswklgunuztbmrlxgvagwkoosbu 
bmvbgmv g.uulgbksimu g.tgbmuf;glkgklugqkso gqvamgqrbmgbmufgrlgbmugws.ori
.vbma,glklugqkso gavosbugkzgkqlgviesvrlbvliugqrbmgbmuf:gakgbmvb,gvbgovab,
slv.ougoklxuzgbkgaswwkzbgbmragws.origmvbzu ,gbmutgmvlxu gbmufauonuaj

Rpgvltgklugamvoogbmrlcgbmvb,gvfklxabgakgfvltgkbmuzguhvfwouagbmvbgRgmv gbk
imkkaugksbgkpgrlgbmugavtrlxagkpgAkizvbuagpkzgftgwzuaulbgwszwkau,gRgmvnu
fv ugvlgroogimkriugkpgbmra,gvl gamvoogys xugbmrag raikszaugkpgmra
uounvbu gv.knugikffklgikliuwbrkla,gRgfsabgbuoogbmufgbmvbgRgmvnugwzkwuzot
auouibu grb;gpkzgRgvfgkpgvlkbmuzgkwrlrkl,gvl gmko grbgbkg.ugvg raikszau,
rlgzvlcgvl garfworirbt,gfsimg.uokqgvl g.umrl gikffklgikliuwbrklajggMu
zuwzuaulba,grlgvlgrlvzbrprirvog.ko luaagvl grlpvlbrlugauiszrbt,gbmugwszu
vl gprzabgrfwzuaarklgvl grxlkzvliugkpglvbszu;gpkzgrbgragbkg.ug.uorunu 
bmvbgqugmvnuglvbszvootgvgpuvzgkpgwvrl,g.sbglkbgkpg uvbm,g.tgzuvaklgkp
rbauop;g‘bragvgwvzbgkpgkszg.urlx,gvl glkgouaaguaaulbrvogbmvlgornrlxj

Bkgqmvbgul gamkso glvbszugmvnug.uxkbbulgrlgsagvgmvbzu gbkgrbgvl gvgmkzzkz
kpgrb,giklar uzrlxgbmvbgrbgragkpgakgxzuvbgsbrorbtgbkgmuzgrlgfvrlbvrlrlx
bmugasiiuaarklgvl gnriraarbs ugkpgmuzgqkzca?gvl gbmvbgrlgbmragslrnuzavo
zuws.ori,grbgikl siuagfkzugbkg.rzbmgvl gvsxfulbvbrklgbmvlgbkgokaagkz
zsrl?

gggggggggggggggggg“Arigzuzsfgasffvglknvbszj”

ggggggggggggggg“Froougvlrfvagslvgluivbvg u rbj”

“Bmugpvrorlxgkpgklugorpugragbmugwvaavxugbkgvgbmksavl gkbmuzgornuaj”

Lvbszugmvagrfwzrlbu grlg.uvabagbmugivzugkpgbmufauonuagvl gkpgbmurz
iklauznvbrkl;gbmutgwzkiuu gakgpvzgvagmrbbrlxgkzgmszbrlxgbkg.ugbrfkzksagkp
.urlxgqkzau,gkpgbmufauonua,gkpgkszgmvobuzrlxgvl g.uvbrlxgbmuf,gviir ulba
as.yuibgbkgbmurzgaulaugvl guhwuzruliu;g.sbgbmvbgqugamkso gcroogbmuf,gbmut
ivllkbgpuvz,glkzgmvnugbmutgbmugpvisobtgbkgrfvxrlugvl giklios ugasimgv
bmrlxgvag uvbm;grbgragavr ,grl uu ,gbmvbgqugauugbmufglkbgklotgimuuzpsoot
sl uzxkgrb,gmkzauagpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbglurxmrlxgvl gaqvlagarlxrlxgqmulgbmut
 ru,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gauucgrbgvbgluu ,gkpgqmrimguouwmvlbagmvnugxrnulgfvlt
uhvfwouaj

.uar ua,gbmugfubmk gkpgvzxsrlx,gkpgqmrimgAkizvbuagmuzugfvcuagsau,gragrb
lkbguesvootgv frzv.oug.kbmgrlgarfworirbtgvl gnumufuliu?ggBzsotgrbgragfsim
fkzuguvatgbkgawuvcgorcugVzrabkbougvl gbkgornugorcugIvuavzgbmvlgbkgawuvc
vl gornugvagAkizvbuag r ;gbmuzugoruagbmuguhbzufug uxzuugkpgwuzpuibrklgvl 
 rpprisobt;gvzbgivllkbgzuvimgrbjggLkq,gkszgpvisobruagvzuglkbgakgbzvrlu 
sw;gqug kglkbgbzt,gqug kglkbgclkqgbmuf;gqugrlnuabgkszauonuagqrbmgbmkaugkp
kbmuza,gvl goubgkszgkqlgorugr ou;gvagakfugklugfvtgavtgkpgfu,gbmvbgRgmvnu
muzugklotgfv ugvglkauxvtgkpgpkzurxlgpokquza,gmvnrlxgpszlramu glkbmrlxgkp
ftgkqlg.sbgbmugbmzuv gbkgbrugbmufj

IuzbvrlotgRgmvnugakgpvzgtruo u gbkgws.origkwrlrkl,gbmvbgbmkaug.kzzkqu 
kzlvfulbagviikfwvltgfu;g.sbgRg kglkbgfuvlgbmvbgbmutgamvoogiknuzgfugvl 
mr ugfu;gbmvbgragesrbugiklbzvztgbkgftg uarxl,gqmkg uarzugbkgfvcugvgamkq
kpglkbmrlxg.sbgqmvbgragftgkql,gvl gqmvbgragftgkqlg.tglvbszu;gvl gmv gR
bvculgftgkqlgv nriu,gRgmv gvbgvoogmvdvz agawkculgwszuotgvoklu,gRgfkzugvl 
fkzugokv gftauopgunuztg vt,

ggggg[Rlgpvib,gbmugprzabgu rbrklgkpgbmugUaavtag(.kz uvsh,g1580)gmvagnuzt
gggggpuqgeskbvbrklajggBmuaug.uivfugfkzuglsfuzksagrlgbmugu rbrklgkpg1588;
ggggg.sbgbmugfsobrbs ugkpgiovaarivogbuhbagqmrimgvbgbrfuagulisf.uz
gggggFklbvrxlu’agbuhb,gklotg vbuagpzkfgbmugwkabmsfksagu rbrklgkpg1595,gmu
gggggmv gfv ugbmuaugikoouibrklagrlgbmugpkszgovabgtuvzagkpgmragorpu,gvagvl
gggggvfsaufulbgkpgmrag“r ouluaaj”--OugIouzijggBmutgxzkq,gmkqunuz,gfkzu
gggggawvzrlxgrlgbmugBmrz g.kkcj]

.utkl gftgwszwkaugvl gprzabgfubmk ,gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgr ouluaagvl gbmu
msfkszgkpgbmugvxujggRpgrbgfra.uikfugfu,gvagRg.uorunugrbg kua,g‘braglk
fvbbuz;grbgfvtg.ugkpgsaugbkgakfugkbmuzajggAsimgbmuzugvzugqmkgeskbugWovbk
vl gMkfuz,gqmkglunuzgavqgurbmuzgkpgbmuf;gvl gRgvoakgmvnugbvculgbmrlxagksb
kpgwoviuagpvzgulksxmg rabvlbgpzkfgbmurzgaksziujggQrbmksbgwvrlagvl 
qrbmksbgouvzlrlx,gmvnrlxgvgbmksavl gnkosfuagv.ksbgfugrlgbmugwoviugqmuzugR
qzrbu,gRgivlgwzuaulbotg.kzzkq,grpgRgwouvau,gpzkfgvg kdulgasim
aizvw-xvbmuzuza,gwukwougv.ksbgqmkfgRg kglkbgfsimgbzks.ougftauop,gqmuzuqrbm
bkgbzricgswgbmragbzuvbraugkpgWmtarkxlkft;gbmuzugluu aglkgfkzug.sbgv
wzuorfrlvztguwrabougkpgvgXuzfvlgbkgabsppgfugqrbmgeskbvbrklajggVl gakgrb
ragqugxkgrlgesuabgkpgvgbricorlxgabkztgbkgimuvbgbmugpkkoramgqkzo jggBmuau
osf.uzgwruagkpgikffklwoviua,gqmuzuqrbmgakgfvltgpszlramgbmurzgabs rua,gvzu
kpgorbbougsaug.sbgbkgikffklgas.yuiba,gvl gauznug.sbgbkgamkqgsa,gvl glkb
bkg rzuibgsa:gvgzr risoksagpzsrbgkpgouvzlrlx,gbmvbgAkizvbuagakgwouvavlbot
 raisaauagvxvrlabgUsbmt ufsajggRgmvnugauulg.kkcagfv ugkpgbmrlxagbmvbgquzu
lunuzgurbmuzgabs ru gkzgsl uzabkk ;gbmugvsbmkzgikffrbbrlxgbkgaunuzvogkp
mragouvzlu gpzrul agbmuguhvfrlvbrklgkpgbmragvl gb’kbmuzgfvbbuzgbkgikfwrou
rb,giklbulbrlxgmrfauop,gpkzgmragamvzu,gqrbmgmvnrlxgwzkyuibu gbmug uarxl,
vl g.tgmragrl sabztgbkgmvnugbru gbkxubmuzgbmragpvxxkbgkpgslclkql
wzknrarkla;gbmugrlcgvl gwvwuz,gvbgouvab,gvzugmrajggBmragragbkg.stgkz
.kzzkqgvg.kkc,gvl glkbgbkgfvcugklu;g‘bragbkgamkqgfulglkbgbmvbgmugivlgfvcu
vg.kkc,g.sbgbmvb,gqmuzukpgbmutgfvtg.ugrlg ks.b,gmugivllkbgfvcugkluj
Vgwzuar ulb,gqmuzugRgqva,g.kvabu gbmvbgmugmv gvfvaau gbkxubmuzgbqk
msl zu gvl gk  gikffklwoviuagrlgklugkpgmragys xfulba;grlgbuoorlxgqmrim,
mug uwzrnu gmrfauopgkpgbmugxokztgmugmv gxkbg.tgrb:grlgftgkwrlrkl,gv
wsaroovlrfksagvl gv.asz gnvlrbtgpkzgasimgvgas.yuibgvl gasimgvgwuzaklj
Rg kgbmugiklbzvzt;gvl gvfklxabgakgfvltg.kzzkqu gbmrlxa,gvfgxov grpgRgivl
abuvogklu,g raxsrarlxgvl gvobuzrlxgrbgpkzgakfugluqgauznriu;gvbgbmugmvdvz 
kpgmvnrlxgrbgavr gbmvbg‘bragpkzgqvlbgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgrbaglvbszvogsau;
Rgxrnugrbgakfugwvzbrisovzgbksimgkpgftgkqlgmvl ,gbkgbmugul grbgfvtglkbg.u
akgv.akosbuotgpkzurxljggBmuaugaubgbmurzgbmupbagrlgamkqgvl gnvosu
bmufauonuagswklgbmuf,gvl gakgmvnugfkzugizu rbgqrbmgbmugovqagbmvlgRgmvnu:
quglvbszvorabagRgbmrlcgbmvbgbmuzugragvgxzuvbgvl grlikfwvzv.ougwzupuzuliu
rlgbmugmklkszgkpgrlnulbrklgknuzgbmvbgkpgvoouxvbrklj

RpgRgqkso gmvnugawkculg.tgouvzlrlx,gRgmv gawkculgakkluz;gRgmv gqzrbbulgkp
bmugbrfugluvzuzgbkgftgabs rua,gqmulgRgmv gfkzugqrbgvl g.ubbuzgfufkzt,gvl 
amkso gakkluzgmvnugbzsabu gbkgbmugnrxkszgkpgbmvbgvxugbmvlgkpgbmra,gqkso 
Rgmvnugfv ugvg.sarluaagkpgqzrbrlxjggVl gqmvbgrpgbmragxzvirksagpvnksz
--[MragviesvrlbvliugqrbmgFv ufkrauooug ugXkszlvtj]--qmrimgPkzbslugmva
ovbuotgkppuzu gfugswklgbmugviikslbgkpgbmragqkzc,gmv g.upvooulgfugrlgbmvb
brfugkpgftgorpu,grlabuv gkpgbmra,gqmuzurlg‘braguesvootg uarzv.ougbk
wkaauaa,gakklgbkg.ugokab!ggBqkgkpgftgviesvrlbvliu,gxzuvbgfulgrlgbmra
pvisobt,gmvnu,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gokabgmvop,grlgzupsarlxgbkgws.oramgvbgpkzbt
tuvzagko ,gbmvbgbmutgfrxmbgabvtgbroogbmzuuaikzujggFvbszrbtgmvagrba
 upuibagvagquoogvagxzuulgtuvza,gvl gqkzau;gvl gko gvxugragvagslprbgpkz
bmragcrl gkpg.sarluaagvagvltgkbmuzjggMugqmkgikffrbagmrag uizuwrbs ugbk
bmugwzuaagwovtagbmugpkkogrpgmugbmrlcgbkgaesuudugvltbmrlxgksbgbmuliugbmvb
 kuaglkbgzuoramgkpg zuvfrlx,g kbvxu,gvl g zrnuoorlx;gbmugfrl gxzkqa
ikabrnugvl gbmricgrlgxzkqrlxgko jggRg uornuzgftgrxlkzvliugrlgwkfwgvl 
abvbu,gvl gftgouvzlrlxgfuvxzuotgvl gwkkzot;gbmragviir ulbvootgvl 
viiuaakzrot,gbmvbgwzrlirwvootgvl guhwzuaaot;gvl gqzrbugawuirprivootgkp
lkbmrlxg.sbglkbmrlx,glkzgkpgvltgairuliug.sbgkpgbmvbgrlairuliujggRgmvnu
imkaulgvgbrfugqmulgftgorpu,gqmrimgRgvfgbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkp,goruagqmkoot
.upkzugfu;gqmvbgzufvrlagmvagfkzugbkg kgqrbmg uvbm;gvl gkpgftg uvbm
rbauop,gamkso gRgprl grbgvgwzvbrlxg uvbm,gvagkbmuzag k,gRgqkso gqroorlxot
xrnugvlgviikslbgvbgftg uwvzbszuj

Akizvbuagqvagvgwuzpuibguhufwovzgrlgvoogxzuvbgesvorbrua,gvl gRgvfgnuhu 
bmvbgmugmv gakg upkzfu gvgpviugvl g.k tgvagragavr ,gvl gakgslasrbv.ougbk
bmug.uvsbtgkpgmragakso,gmrfauopg.urlxgakgvfkzksagvl gasimgvlgv frzuzgkp
.uvsbt:gLvbszug r gmrfgqzklxjggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgfkzugwzk.v.ougbmvlgbmu
iklpkzfrbtgvl gzuovbrklgkpgbmug.k tgbkgbmugakso:

ggggg“Rwargvlrfrgfvxlrgzupuzb,gesvorgrlgikzwkzugokivbrgarlb:gfsobkgulrfgv
gggggikzwkzuguhrabslb,geshgvisvlbgfulbuf:gfsobvgesvgk.bsl vlb;”

ggggg[“Rbgragkpgxzuvbgiklauesuliugrlgqmvbg.k ruagfrl agvzugwoviu ,gpkz
gggggfvltgbmrlxagawzrlxgpzkfgbmug.k tgbmvbgfvtgamvzwulgbmugfrl ,gvl gfvlt
gggggbmvbgfvtg.oslbgrbj”--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grjg33j]

bmragzupuzagbkgvlgsllvbszvogsxorluaagvl g upkzfrbtgkpgorf.a;g.sbgqugivoo
sxorluaagvoakgvlgslauuforluaagvbgprzabgarxmb,gqmrimgragwzrlirwvootgok xu 
rlgbmugpviu,gvl g raxsabagsagklgnuztgaorxmbgxzksl a:g.tgbmugikfwouhrkl,gv
awkb,gvgzsxxu gikslbulvliu,gpkzgakfugzuvaklagkpbulgqmkootgrluhworiv.ou,
rlgfuf.uzaglunuzbmuouaagkpgxkk gatffubztgvl gwuzpuibjggBmug upkzfrbt,
bmvbgiokbmu gvgnuztg.uvsbrpsogaksogrlgOvg.kubru,gqvagkpgbmragwzu rivfulb:
bmvbgaswuzprirvogsxorluaa,gqmrimglunuzbmuouaagragvoqvtagbmugfkab
rfwuzrksa,gragkpgouvabgwzuys riugbkgbmugabvbugkpgbmugfrl ,gvl gkpgorbbou
iuzbvrlbtgrlgbmugkwrlrklgkpgfuljggBmugkbmuz,gqmrimgraglunuzgwzkwuzot
ivoou g upkzfrbt,g.urlxgfkzugas.abvlbrvo,gabzrcuag uuwuzgrljggLkbgunuzt
amkugkpgafkkbmgamrlrlxgouvbmuz,g.sbgunuztgamkugquoo-fv u,gamuqagbmugamvwu
kpgbmugpkkbgqrbmrljggVagAkizvbuagavr gkpgmra,grbg.ubzvtu guesvogsxorluaa
rlgmragakso,gmv gmuglkbgikzzuibu grbg.tgu sivbrkl;g.sbgrlgavtrlxgak,gR
mko gmugqvagrlgyuab,gvagmragisabkfgqva;glunuzgakguhiuooulbgvgaksogpkzfu 
rbauopj

RgivllkbgkpbulgulksxmgzuwuvbgmkqgxzuvbgvlguabuufgRgmvnugpkzg.uvsbt,gbmvb
wkbulbgvl gv nvlbvxuksagesvorbt;gmug(Ovg.kubru)givoou grbg“vgamkzb
btzvllt,”gvl gWovbk,g“bmugwzrnrouxugkpglvbszuj”ggQugmvnuglkbmrlxgbmvb
uhiuoagrbgrlgzuwsbvbrkl;grbgmvagbmugprzabgwoviugrlgbmugikffuziugkpgful;
rbgwzuaulbagrbauopgrlgbmugpzklb;gau siuagvl gwzuwkaauaauagkszgys xfulba
qrbmgxzuvbgvsbmkzrbtgvl gqkl uzpsogrfwzuaarkljggWmztlugmv gokabgmuzgivsau
rlgbmugmvl agkpgvlguhiuooulbgv nkivbu,grp,gkwulrlxgmuzgzk.u,gamugmv glkb
ikzzswbu gmuzgys xuag.tgbmugosabzugkpgmuzg.uvsbtjggVl gRgprl gbmvbgItzsa,
Vouhvl uz,gvl gIvuavz,gbmugbmzuugfvabuzagkpgbmugqkzo ,glunuzgluxouibu 
.uvsbtgrlgbmurzgxzuvbuabgvppvrza;glkgfkzug r gbmugprzabgAirwrkjggBmugavfu
qkz grlgXzuucgarxlrpruag.kbmgpvrzgvl gxkk ;gvl gbmugMkotgQkz gkpbulgavta
xkk gqmulgrbgfuvlagpvrz:gRgamkso gqroorlxotgfvrlbvrlgbmugwzrkzrbtgrlgxkk 
bmrlxa,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugaklxgbmvbgWovbkgivooagvlgr ougbmrlx,gbvculgksb
kpgakfugvlirulbgwkub:g“muvobm,g.uvsbt,gzrimuaj”ggVzrabkbougavtagbmvbgbmu
zrxmbgkpgikffvl gvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmug.uvsbrpso;gvl gbmvb,gqmulgbmuzugragv
wuzaklgqmkaug.uvsbtgikfuagluvzgbmugrfvxuagkpgbmugxk a,gnuluzvbrklgra
uesvootg sugbkgmrfjggBkgmrfgqmkgvacu gqmtgwukwougkpbuluzgvl goklxuz
pzuesulbgbmugikfwvltgkpgmvl akfugwuzakla:g“Bmvbgesuabrkl,”gavr gmu,g“ra
klotgbkg.ugvacu g.tgbmug.orl j”ggFkabgkpgbmugwmrokakwmuza,gvl gbmu
xzuvbuab,gwvr gpkzgbmurzgaimkkorlx,gvl gviesrzu gqra kfg.tgbmugpvnkszgvl 
fu rvbrklgkpgbmurzg.uvsbtjggLkbgklotgrlgbmugfulgbmvbgauznugfu,g.sbgvoak
rlgbmug.uvaba,gRgiklar uzgrbgqrbmrlgbqkgprlxuza’g.zuv bmgkpgxkk luaaj

Vl gtubgRgpvlitgbmvbgbmkaugpuvbszuagvl gfkso agkpgpviu,gvl gbmkau
orluvfulba,g.tgqmrimgfulgxsuaagvbgkszgrlbuzlvogikfwouhrklagvl gksz
pkzbsluagbkgikfu,gragvgbmrlxgbmvbg kuaglkbgnuztg rzuibotgvl garfwotgoru
sl uzgbmugimvwbuzgkpg.uvsbtgvl g upkzfrbt,glkgfkzugbmvlgunuztgxkk gk ksz
vl gauzulrbtgkpgvrzgwzkfrauagmuvobm,glkzgvoogpkxgvl gabrlcgrlpuibrklgrlgv
brfugkpgwuabrouliujggAsimgvagviisaugov ruagkpgiklbzv ribrlxgbmurzg.uvsbt
.tgbmurzgfvlluza,g kglkbgvoqvtagmrbgzrxmb;gpkz,grlgvgpviugqmrimgraglklu
kpgbmug.uab,gbmuzugfvtg quoogakfugvrzgkpgwzk.rbtgvl gbzsab;gva,gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gRgmvnugzuv ,g.ubqrhbgbqkg.uvsbrpsogutua,gfulviuagkpgvg vlxuzksa
vl gfvorxlvlbglvbszujggBmuzugvzugpvnkszv.ougwmtarkxlkfrua,gakgbmvbgrlgv
izkq gkpgnribkzrksagulufrua,gtksgamvoogwzuaulbotgimkkau,gvfklxabgfulgtks
lunuzgavqg.upkzu,gklugzvbmuzgbmvlgvlkbmuzgbkgqmkfgbkgaszzul uz,gvl gqrbm
qmkfgbkgrlbzsabgtkszgorpu;gvl gtubglkbgwzkwuzotgswklgbmugiklar uzvbrklgkp
.uvsbtj

Vgwuzakl’agokkcgrag.sbgvgpuu.ougqvzzvlbt;gvl gtubgrbgragakfubmrlx
iklar uzv.ougbkk;gvl grpgRgmv gbkgovamgbmuf,gRgqkso gfkabgaunuzuot
aikszxugbmugqricu gkluagqmkg.uorugvl g.ubzvtgbmugwzkfrauagbmvbglvbszugmva
wovlbu grlgbmurzgpkzumuv a;gRgamkso gqrbmgxzuvbuzgaunuzrbtgwslramgfvoriu
sl uzgvgfro gvl gxulbougvawuibjggRbgauufagvagrpgbmuzugquzugakfugosictgvl 
akfugslosictgpviua;gvl gRg.uorunugbmuzugragakfugvzbgrlg rabrlxsramrlx
vppv.ougpzkfgfuzuotgarfwougpviua,gaunuzugpzkfgzsxxu ,gfvorirksagpzkf
wularnu,gaikzlpsogpzkfgfuovlimkori,gvl gasimgkbmuzg.kz uzrlxgesvorbruaj
Bmuzugvzug.uvsbruagqmrimgvzuglkbgklotgmvsxmbt,g.sbgaksz,gvl gkbmuzagbmvb
vzuglkbgklotgxulbou,g.sbgfkzugbmvlgbmvb,grlarwr ;gbkgwzkxlkabrivbugpzkf
bmufgpsbszugunulbagragvgfvbbuzgbmvbgRgamvoogouvnugsl uir u j

Rgmvnu,gvagRgmvnugavr guoauqmuzugvagbkgftgkqlgikliuzl,garfwotgvl 
rfworirbotguf.zviu gbmragvlirulbgzsou,g“Bmvbgqugivllkbgpvrogrlgpkookqrlx
Lvbszu,”gvl gbmvbgbmugaknuzurxlgwzuiuwbgragbkgiklpkzfgkszauonuagbkgmuzj
Rgmvnuglkb,gvagAkizvbuag r ,gikzzuibu gftglvbszvogikfwkarbrklg.tgbmu
pkziugkpgzuvakl,gvl gmvnuglkbgrlgbmugouvabg rabsz.u gftgrliorlvbrklg.t
vzb;gRgmvnugoubgftauopgxkgvagRgivfu:gRgiklbul glkb;gftgbqkgwzrlirwvo
wvzbagornu,gkpgbmurzgkqlgviikz ,grlgwuviugvl gxkk grlbuoorxuliu,g.sbgft
lszau’agfroc,gbmvlcgXk ,gqvagbkouzv.otgqmkouakfugvl gxkk jggAmvoogRgavt
bmrag.tgbmugqvt,gbmvbgRgauugrlgxzuvbuzguabuufgbmvlg‘bragqkzbm,gvl grlgsau
akouotgvfklxgkszauonua,gvgiuzbvrlgrfvxugkpgaimkovabrigwzk.rbt,gvgaovnugbk
wzuiuwba,gvl gpubbuzu gqrbmgmkwugvl gpuvz?ggRgqkso gmvnugrbgasimgvagbmvb
ovqagvl gzuorxrklagamkso glkbgfvcu,g.sbgwuzpuibgvl gvsbmkzraugrb;gbmvb
prl agrbgmvagqmuzuqrbmvogbkgaswwkzbgrbauopgqrbmksbgmuow,g.kzlgvl gzkkbu 
rlgsagpzkfgbmugauu gkpgslrnuzavogzuvakl,grfwzrlbu grlgunuztgfvlg.t
lvbszujggBmvbgzuvaklgqmrimgabzulxbmulagAkizvbuagpzkfgmragnrirksag.ul 
zul uzagmrfgk.u rulbgbkgbmugxk agvl gfulgkpgvsbmkzrbtgrlgmragirbt:
ikszvxuksagrlg uvbm,glkbg.uivsaugmragaksogragrffkzbvo,g.sbg.uivsaugmugra
fkzbvojgg‘Bragvg kibzrlugzsrlksagbkgvoogxknuzlfulb,gvl gfsimgfkzugmszbpso
bmvlgrlxulrksagvl gas.bou,gqmrimgwuzasv uagbmugwukwougbmvbgvgzuorxrksa
.uorupgragvoklugaspprirulb,gvl gqrbmksbgikl sib,gbkgavbraptgbmug rnrlu
ysabriujggSaug ufklabzvbuagbkgsagvgnvabg rabrlibrklg.ubqrhbg unkbrklgvl 
iklairuliuj

Rgmvnugvgpvnkszv.ougvawuib,g.kbmgrlgpkzfgvl grlgrlbuzwzubvbrkl:

ggggggggggggggg“Esr g rhr,gmv.uzugfu?grfkgmv.sr,gImzufuj”

gggggggggg[“Qmvbg r gRgavt?ggbmvbgRgmvnu?gglk,gImzufua,gRgmv j”
ggggggggggg--Buzuliu,gMuvsbj,gvibgrj,gauijg2,gnjg42j]

ggggggggggggggg“Mus!ggbvlbsfgvbbzrbrgikzwkzragkaavgnr ua;”

gggggggggg[“Vova!gkpgvgqkzlg.k tgbmksgauuabgklotgbmug.klua”]

vl gbmvbgfvcuagvgesrbugiklbzvztgamkqgbkgbmvbgkpgAkizvbuajggRbgmvagkpbul
.upvooulgfu,gbmvbgswklgbmugfuzugizu rbgkpgftgwzuauliugvl gvrz,gwuzakla
qmkgmv glkgfvlluzgkpgclkqou xugkpgfugmvnugwsbgvgnuztgxzuvbgiklpr uliugrl
fu,gqmubmuzgrlgbmurzgkqlgvppvrzagkzgfrlu;gvl gRgmvnugrlgpkzurxlgwvzba
bmuliugk.bvrlu garlxsovzgvl gzvzugpvnkszajgg.sbgbmugbqkgpkookqrlx
uhvfwouagvzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gqkzbmgwvzbrisovzgzuovbrkljggVgiuzbvrlgwuzakl
wovllu gbkgaszwzraugftgmksaugvl gfugrlgrb;gmragaimufugqvagbkgikfugbkgft
xvbuagvoklu,gvl gbkg.ugrfwkzbslvbugbkg.ugoubgrljggRgcluqgmrfg.tglvfu,
vl gmv gpvrzgzuvaklgbkgzuwkaugiklpr uliugrlgmrf,gvag.urlxgftglurxm.ksz
vl gakfubmrlxgzuovbu gbkgfujggRgivsau gbmugxvbuagbkg.ugkwulu gbkgmrf,
vagRg kgbkgunuztgklujggBmuzugRgpksl gmrf,gqrbmgunuztgvwwuvzvliugkpgvovzf,
mragmkzaugwvlbrlxgvl gnuztgbrzu jggMugulbuzbvrlu gfugqrbmgbmragabkzt:
“Bmvb,gv.ksbgmvopgvgouvxsugkpp,gmugmv gfubgqrbmgvgiuzbvrlguluftgkpgmra,
qmkfgRgvoakgcluq,gvl gmv gmuvz gkpgbmurzgesvzzuo;gbmvbgmraguluftgmv 
xrnulgmrfgvgnuztg.zracgimvau,gvl gbmvbgmvnrlxg.uulgaszwzrau grlg rakz uz,
vl gmragwvzbtg.urlxgbkkgquvc,gmugmv gpou gbkgftgxvbuagpkzgzupsxu;
vl gbmvbgmugqvagrlgxzuvbgbzks.ougpkzgmragpkookquza,gqmkfg(mugavr )gmu
iklios u gbkg.ugvoogurbmuzg uv gkzgbvculj”ggRgrllkiulbotg r gftg.uabgbk
ikfpkzb,gvaaszu,gvl gzupzuamgmrfjggAmkzbotgvpbuzgivfugpkszgkzgprnugkpgmra
ako ruza,gqmkgwzuaulbu gbmufauonuagrlgbmugavfugikslbulvliugvl gvppzrxmb,
bkgxubgrlgbkk;gvl gvpbuzgbmufgfkzu,gvl gabroogfkzu,gnuztgquoogfkslbu gvl 
vzfu ,gbkgbmuglsf.uzgkpgprnu-vl -bqulbtgkzgbmrzbt,gwzubul rlxgbmvbgbmut
mv gbmuguluftgvbgbmurzgmuuoajggBmragftabuztg.uxvlgvgorbbougbkgvqvculgft
asawrirkl;gRgqvaglkbgrxlkzvlbgqmvbgvlgvxugRgornu grl,gmkqgfsimgftgmksau
frxmbg.ugulnru ,gvl gRgmv gaunuzvoguhvfwouagkpgkbmuzagkpgftgviesvrlbvliu
bkgqmkfgvgframvwgkpgbmragakzbgmv gmvwwulu jgg.sbgbmrlcrlxgbmuzugqva
lkbmrlxgbkg.ugxkbg.tgmvnrlxg.uxslgbkg kgvgikszbuat,gslouaagRgqulbgbmzksxm
qrbmgrb,gvl gbmvbgRgikso glkbg raulxvxugftauopgpzkfgbmufgqrbmksbgawkrorlx
voo,gRgoubgftauopgxkgbmugfkabglvbszvogvl garfwougqvt,gvagRgvoqvtag k,gvl 
rlnrbu gbmufgvoogbkgikfugrljgVl grlgbzsbmgRgvfglvbszvootgnuztgorbbou
rliorlu gbkgasawrirklgvl g rabzsab;gRgqroorlxotgrliorlugbkqvz aguhisau
vl gbmugxulbouabgrlbuzwzubvbrkl;gRgbvcugfulgviikz rlxgbkgbmugikffkl
kz uz,gvl g kglkbgfkzug.uorunugrlgbmkaugwuznuzaugvl gsllvbszvo
rliorlvbrkla,gslouaagiklnrliu g.tgfvlrpuabgunr uliu,gbmvlgRg kgrl
fklabuzagvl gfrzvioua;gvl gRgvf,gfkzuknuz,gvgfvlgqmkgqroorlxotgikffrb
ftauopgbkgPkzbslu,gvl gbmzkqgftauopgmuv oklxgrlbkgmuzgvzfa;gvl gRgmvnu
mrbmuzbkgpksl gfkzugzuvaklgbkgvwwovs gbmvlgbkg.ovfugftauopgpkzgakg krlx,
mvnrlxgunuzgpksl gmuzgfkzug raizuubgv.ksb,gvl gvgxzuvbuzgpzrul gbk,gft
vppvrzagbmvlgRgvfgftauopjggBmuzugvzugakfugvibrklagrlgftgorpugqmuzukpgbmu
ikl sibgfvtgysabotg.ugivoou g rpprisob,gkz,grpgtksgwouvau,gwzs ulb;gkp
bmuau,gaswwkarlxgbmugbmrz gwvzbgbkgmvnug.uulgftgkql,g ks.bouaagbmugkbmuz
bqk-bmrz agquzugv.akosbuotgmuzajggQugfvcu,gfubmrlca,gvgfrabvcugrlgbmvbgqu
 kglkbgulksxmgbzsabgMuvnulgqrbmgkszgvppvrza,gvl gwzubul gbkgfkzugpzkfgksz
kqlgikl sibgbmvlgvwwuzbvrlagbkgsa;gvl gbmuzupkzugrbgragbmvbgkszg uarxla
akgkpbulgfraivzztjgMuvnulgragyuvoksagkpgbmuguhbulbgbmvbgqugvbbzr.sbugbk
bmugzrxmbgkpgmsfvlgwzs uliugv.knugrbagkql,gvl gisbagrbgvoogbmugamkzbuzg.t
mkqgfsimgbmugfkzugqugvfworptgrbjggBmugovabgikfuzagzufvrlu gklgmkzau.vic
rlgftgikszbtvz ,gqmroabgbmurzgouv uz,gqmkgqvagqrbmgfugrlgbmugwvzoksz,
qkso glkbgmvnugmragmkzaugwsbgswgrlgbmugabv.ou,gavtrlxgmugamkso 
rffu rvbuotgzubrzu,gakgakklgvagmugmv gluqagkpgmragfuljggMugavqgmrfauop
fvabuzgkpgmragulbuzwzrau,gvl glkbmrlxglkqgzufvrlu g.sbgrbaguhuisbrklj
Mugmvagarliugaunuzvogbrfuagavr g(pkzgmugqvaglkbgvamvfu gbkgbuoogbmugabkzt
mrfauop)gbmvbgftgikslbulvliugvl gpzvlcluaagmv galvbimu gbmugbzuvimuztgksb
kpgmragmvl ajggMugvxvrlgfkslbu gmragmkzau;gmragpkookquza,gqmkgmv gbmurz
utuagrlbulbgswklgmrf,gbkgauugqmulgmugqkso gxrnugbmugarxlvo,g.urlxgnuzt
fsimgvabklramu gbkgprl gmrfgikfugvqvtgvl gouvnugmragwzutg.umrl gmrfj

Vlkbmuzgbrfu,gzuotrlxgswklgakfugbzsiugysabgws.oramu grlgbmugvzft,gRgbkkc
vgykszlutgbmzksxmgvgnuztgbricoramgikslbztjggRgmv glkbgzr  ulgpvz,g.sbgR
qvag raiknuzu ,gvl gbqkgkzgbmzuugwvzbruagkpgmkzau,gpzkfgnvzrksagwoviua,
quzugaulbgksbgbkgaurdugfu;gklugkpgbmufgknuzbkkcgfugklgbmugbmrz g vt,gvl 
Rgqvagvbbvicu g.tgprpbuulgkzgbqulbtgxulboufulgrlgnrdkza,gpkookqu gvbgv
 rabvliug.tgvg.vl gkpgpkkb-ako ruzajggRgqvagbvcul,gqrbm zvqlgrlbkgbmu
bmricgkpgvglurxm.kszrlxgpkzuab,g rafkslbu ,gzk..u ,gftgbzslcagzrpou ,gft
fklut-.khgbvcul,gvl gftgmkzauagvl guesrwvxug rnr u gvfklxabgluqgfvabuzaj
Qugmv ,grlgbmragikwau,gvgnuztgoklxgiklbuabgv.ksbgftgzvlakf,gqmrimgbmut
aubgakgmrxm,gbmvbgrbgqvagfvlrpuabgbmvbgRgqvaglkbgclkqlgbkgbmufjggBmut
quzu,gfkzuknuz,grlgvgnuztgxzuvbg u.vbugv.ksbgftgorpu;gvl ,grlgbzsbm,
bmuzugquzugnvzrksagirzisfabvliuagbmvbgiouvzotgamkqu gbmug vlxuzgRgqvagrl:

gggggggggg“Bsligvlrfragkwsa,gVUluv,gbsligwuibkzugprzfkj”

ggggg[“Bmul,gVUluva,gbmuzugragluu gkpgikszvxu,gkpgvgprzfgmuvzbj”
gggggg--VUlur ,gnrjg261j]

Rgabroogrlarabu gswklgbmugbzsiu,gbkkgqroorlxgbmutgamkso gmvnugbmugxvrlgkp
qmvbgbmutgmv gvozuv tgbvculgpzkfgfu,gqmrimgqvaglkbgbkg.ug uawrau ,
qrbmksbgwzkfraugkpgvltgkbmuzgzvlakfjggVpbuzgbqkgkzgbmzuugmkszagbmvbgqu
mv g.uulgrlgbmragwoviu,gvl gbmvbgbmutgmv gfkslbu gfugswklgvgmkzaugbmvb
qvaglkbgorcuotgbkgzslgpzkfgbmuf,gvl gikffrbbu gfugbkgbmugxsvz gkpgprpbuul
kzgbqulbtgmvzesu.saruza,gvl g rawuzau gftgauznvlbagbkgkbmuza,gmvnrlx
xrnulgkz uzgbmvbgbmutgamkso givzztgsagvqvtgwzrakluzagaunuzvogqvta,gvl gR
.urlxgvozuv tgxkbgakfugbqkgkzgbmzuugfsacub-amkbagpzkfgbmugwoviu,

gggggggggg“YvfgwzuiugWkoosira,gyvfgIvabkzra,grfwokzvbv,”

gggggggggg[“.tgvgwzvtuzgv  zuaau glkqgbkgWkoosh,glkqgbkgIvabkzj”
ggggggggggg--Ivbsoosa,gohnrjg65j]

.umko gvgas  ulgvl gsluhwuibu gvobuzvbrkl;gRgavqgbmugimrupgzubszlgbkgfu
qrbmgxulbouzgovlxsvxu,gfvcrlxgauvzimgvfklxabgbmugbzkkwuzagpkzgft
aivbbuzu gwzkwuzbt,gvl givsarlxgvagfsimgvagikso g.ugzuiknuzu gbkg.u
zuabkzu gbkgfu,gunulgbkgftgfklut-.kh;g.sbgbmug.uabgwzuaulbgbmutgfv ugqva
ftgor.uzbt,gpkzgbmugzuabg r glkbgfsimgikliuzlgfugvbgbmvbgbrfujggBmugbzsu
ivsaugkpgakgas  ulgvgimvlxu,gvl gkpgbmragzuiklar uzvbrkl,gqrbmksbgvlt
vwwvzulbgrfwsoau,gvl gkpgakgfrzvisoksagvgzuwulbvliu,grlgasimgvgbrfu,grlgv
wovllu gvl g uor.uzvbugulbuzwzrau,gvl g.uikfugysabg.tgsavxug(pkz,gvbgbmu
przabg vam,gRgwovrlotgiklpuaau gbkgbmufgkpgqmvbgwvzbtgRgqva,gvl gqmrbmuz
Rgqvagxkrlx),gbzsot,gRg kglkbgtubgzrxmbotgsl uzabvl jggBmugfkabgwzkfrlulb
vfklxabgbmuf,gqmkgwsoou gkppgmragnrdkzgvl gbko gfugmraglvfu,gzuwuvbu ot
bko gfugvbgbmugbrfu,gknuzgvl gknuzgvxvrl,gbmvbgRgkqu gftg uornuzvliugbk
ftgikslbulvliu,gvl gbmugor.uzbtgvl g.ko luaagkpgftgawuuim,gbmvbgzul uzu 
fugslqkzbmtgkpgasimgvgfrav nulbszu,gvl gamkso gauiszugfugpzkfgrba
zuwubrbrkljgg‘Bragwkaar.ougbmvbgbmug rnrlugxkk luaagqroou gbkgfvcugsaugkp
bmragnvrlgrlabzsfulbgpkzgftgwzuauznvbrkl;gvl grb,gfkzuknuz,g upul u gfu
bmugluhbg vtgpzkfgkbmuzgvl gqkzaugvf.samua,gkpgqmrimgbmuaugftgvaavrovlba
mv gxrnulgfugqvzlrlxjggBmugovabgkpgbmuaugbqkgxulboufulgragtubgornrlx
mrfauopgbkgbuoogbmugabkzt;gbmugprzabgqvagcroou glkbgoklxgvxkj

Rpgftgpviug r glkbgvlaquzgpkzgfu,grpgfulg r glkbgzuv grlgftgutuagvl grl
ftgnkriugbmugrllkiuliugkpgrlbulbrkl,gRgmv glkbgornu gakgoklxgqrbmksb
esvzzuoagvl gqrbmksbgxrnrlxgkppuliu,gauurlxgbmugrl raizuubgqmvbunuzgikfua
rlbkgftgmuv ,gvl gbkgys xugakgzvamotgkpgbmrlxajggBmragqvtgfvt,gqrbm
zuvakl,gvwwuvzgslirnro,gvl groogv vwbu gbkgkszgqvtgkpgiklnuzavbrkl;g.sb
Rgmvnuglunuzgfubgqrbmgvltgqmkgys xu grbgksbzvxuksagkzgfvorirksa,gkzgbmvb
bkkcgkppuliugvbgftgor.uzbt,grpgmugmv grbgpzkfgftgkqlgfksbm;gqkz a
zuwuvbu gmvnugvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgaksl gvl gaulaujggLkzg kgRgmvbugvltgwuzakl;
vl gRgvfgakgaokqgbkgkppul ,gbmvbgRgivllkbg kgrb,gunulgswklgbmugviikslbgkp
zuvaklgrbauop;gvl gqmulgkiivarklgmvagzuesrzu gfugbkgaulbuliugizrfrlvoa,
Rgmvnugzvbmuzgimkaulgbkgpvrogrlgwkrlbgkpgysabriugbmvlgbkg kgrb:

ggggggggggggggg“Sbgfvxragwuiivzrglkorf,gesvfgavbragvlrfr
gggggggggggggggv gnrl rivl vgwuiivbvgmv.uvfj”

ggggg[“AkgbmvbgRgmv gzvbmuzgfulgamkso glkbgikffrbgpvsobagbmvlgbmvbgR
gggggamkso gmvnugaspprirulbgikszvxugbkgikl uflgbmufj”---Ornt,ghhhrhjg21j]

Vzrabkbou,g‘bragavr ,gqvagzuwzkvimu gpkzgmvnrlxg.uulgbkkgfuzirpsogbkgv
qricu gfvl:g“Rgqvagrl uu ,”gavr gmu,g“fuzirpsogbkgbmugfvl,g.sbglkbgbkgmra
qricu luaaj”ggKz rlvztgys xfulbaguhvawuzvbugbmufauonuagbkgwslramfulbg.t
bmugmkzzkzgkpgbmugpvib:g.sbgrbgikkoagfrlu;gbmugmkzzkzgkpgbmugprzabgfsz uz
fvcuagfugpuvzgvgauikl ;gvl gbmug upkzfrbtgkpgbmugprzabgizsuobtgfvcuagfu
v.mkzgvoogrfrbvbrklgkpgrbj’gBmvbgfvtg.ugvwworu gbkgfu,gqmkgvfg.sbgv
AesrzugkpgIos.a,gqmrimgqvagavr gkpgImvzroosa,gcrlxgkpgAwvzbv:g“Mugivllkb
.ugxkk ,gauurlxgmugraglkbgunrogunulgbkgbmugqricu j”ggKzgbmsa--pkz
Wosbvzimg uornuzagrbg.kbmgbmuaugqvta,gvagmug kuagvgbmksavl gkbmuzgbmrlxa,
nvzrksaotgvl giklbzv ribkzrot--“Mugfsabgluu ag.ugxkk ,g.uivsaugmugragak
unulgbkgbmugqricu j”ggUnulgvagrlgovqpsogvibrklagRg raorcugbkgufwokt
ftauopgqmulgpkzgasimgvagvzug rawouvau gvbgrb;gak,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,grl
slovqpsogbmrlxagRg kglkbgfvcugiklairuliugulksxmgkpgufwoktrlxgftauopgqmul
rbgragpkzgasimgvagvzugqroorlxj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgfvlgamkso gv.mkzgovqasrbagvagfsimgvagmugfvt
gggggVgwuzakl’agokkcgrag.sbgvgpuu.ougqvzzvlbt
gggggViiuwbgvoogbmrlxagqugvzuglkbgv.ougbkgzupsbu
gggggV frzvbrklgragbmugpksl vbrklgkpgvoogwmrokakwmt
gggggV nvlbvxuksa,gbkk,gvgorbbougbkgzuiu ugpzkfgklu’agzrxmb
gggggVoogRgavtgrag.tgqvtgkpg raikszau,gvl glkbmrlxg.tgqvtgkpgv nriu
gggggVwbgbkgwzkfraugakfubmrlxgouaagbmvlgqmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkg k
gggggVagrpgvltbmrlxgquzugakgikffklgvagrxlkzvliu
gggggVsbmkzrbtgkpgbmuglsf.uzgvl gvlbresrbtgkpgbmugqrbluaaua
ggggg.uabgbuabgkpgbzsbmgragbmugfsobrbs ugkpg.uorunuzagrlgvgizkq 
ggggg.kkcagmvnuglkbgakgfsimgauznu gfugpkzgrlabzsibrklgvaguhuzirau
ggggg.kkcagkpgbmrlxagbmvbgquzuglunuzgurbmuzgabs ru gkzgsl uzabkk 
gggggIkl uflgbmugkwwkarbugvpprzfvbrklguesvoot
gggggIkszvxuksagrlg uvbm,glkbg.uivsaugmragaksogragrffkzbvo--Akizvbua
ggggg uvbmgikl siuagfkzugbkg.rzbmgvl gvsxfulbvbrklgbmvlgbkgokaa
ggggg uizuugbmvbgavta,g“Bmugikszbgsl uzabvl aglkbmrlxgkpgbmugfvbbuz”
gggggg upkzfrbtgkpgbmugprzabgizsuobtgfvcuagfugv.mkzgvoogrfrbvbrkl
gggggUlbuzagorxmbotgrlbkgvgesvzzuogragvwbgbkgxkgvagorxmbotgksbgkpgrb
gggggUabv.oramgbmragwzkwkarbrklg.tgvsbmkzrbtgvl gmspprlx
gggggUhbul gbmurzgvlxuzgvl gmvbzu g.utkl gbmug rawsbugrlgesuabrkl
gggggPv.zrigxkuagpkzfrlxgvl gwrorlxgrbauopgswgpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl 
gggggPkzbslugmuvwu gswgprnugkzgarhgasim-orcugrlir ulba
gggggMvz gbkgzuakonugvgfvl’agys xfulbgvxvrlabgbmugikffklgkwrlrkla
gggggMvabugbzrwagswgrbagkqlgmuuoa,gpubbuza,gvl gabkwagrbauop
gggggMugivllkbg.ugxkk ,gauurlxgmugraglkbgunrogunulgbkgbmugqricu 
gggggMugqmkgabkwaglkbgbmugabvzbgqrooglunuzg.ugv.ougbkgabkwgbmugikszau
ggggg“Mkqgfvltgbmrlxa,”gavr gmu,g“Rg kglkbg uarzu!”
ggggggMkqgfsimguvaruzgragrbglkbgbkgulbuzgrlgbmvlgrbgragbkgxubgksb
gggggRgvfgvgorbbougbul uzotg rabzsabpsogkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgqram
gggggRgvfglkgoklxuzgrlgikl rbrklgpkzgvltgxzuvbgimvlxu
gggggRgvfglkbgbkg.ugisppu grlbkg.uorup
gggggRgvfgwovrlgvl gmuvnt,gvl gabricgbkgbmugakor gvl gbmugwzk.v.ou
gggggRg kglkbgys xugkwrlrklag.tgtuvza
gggggRgunuzgysabotgpuvzu gbkgzvraugftgmuv gbkkgmrxm
gggggRgqkso gvagqroorlxotg.ugosictgvagqrau
gggggRpgRgabvl grlgluu gkpgvlxuzgvl grlpovffvbrkl,gRg.kzzkqgrb
gggggRpgbmutgmuvzglkglkrau,gbmutgbmrlcgfulgaouuw
gggggRfwkaugbmufgswklgfugvagrlpvoor.ou
gggggRliklnulruliuagbmvbgfk uzvbrklg.zrlxag(rlgirnrogqvz)
gggggOul gmrfauopgbkgkbmuza,gvl gklotgxrnugmrfauopgbkgmrfauop
gggggOubglkbgsagauucgroosarklagpzkfgqrbmksbgvl gslclkql
ggggg“Orbbougouvzlrlxgragluu u gbkgpkzfgvgaksl gfrl j”--Auluiv
gggggOklxgbkouzvbrklg.uxubagmv.rb;gmv.rb,giklaulbgvl grfrbvbrkl
gggggFulgvzuglkbgvoqvtagbkgzuotgswklgbmugwuzaklvogiklpuaarkla
gggggFuzirpsogbkgbmugfvl,g.sbglkbgbkgmragqricu luaa--Vzrabkbou
gggggFrzviouagvl gabzvlxugunulbagmvnugikliuvou gbmufauonuagpzkfgfu
gggggFtgmsfkszgraglkgpzrul gbkgbsfsob
gggggLkauxvtgkpgpkzurxlgpokquza,gmvnrlxgpszlramu glkbmrlxgkpgftgkql
gggggLkbg.uorunugpzkfgklu,gRgamkso glkbg.uorunugpzkfgvgmsl zu 
gggggLkbmrlxgragakgaswwougvl guzzvbrigvagkszgsl uzabvl rlx
gggggLsf.uzgkpgpkkoagakgfsimguhiuu agbmugqrau
gggggKwrlrklagqugmvnugvzugbvculgklgvsbmkzrbtgvl gbzsab
gggggKbmuzagv kzugvoogkpgbmurzgkqlgar u
gggggWrbrpsogqvtagvl guhwu rulbagbkgbmugysxxouzagkpgbmugovq
gggggWzuwvzugkszauonuagvxvrlabgbmugwzuwvzvbrklagkpg uvbm
gggggWzkpuaarklgkpgclkqou xugvl gbmurzgrffuvaszv.ougauop-ikliurb
gggggEsrubgzuwkaugvl gvgwzkpksl gaouuwgqrbmksbg zuvfa
gggggZuvaklagkpbulgvlbrirwvbugbmuguppuib
gggggZupsarlggbkgysabrpt,guhisau,gkzguhwovrlgftauop
gggggZufkbuabgqrbluaagclkqagfkzugv.ksbgrbgbmvlgbmkaugqmkgquzugluvzuab
gggggZuabkzrlxgqmvbgmvag.uulgoulbgsa,gqrbggsasztgvl gviiuaarkl
gggggZrimuzgbmvlgqugbmrlcgqugvzu;g.sbgqugvzugbvsxmbgbkg.kzzkq
gggggZrxmbgkpgikffvl gvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmug.uvsbrpso-Vzrabkbou
gggggZs ugvl gesvzzuoakfugpovbotgbkg ultgvgabvbu gpvib
gggggAsppuzgftgys xfulbgbkg.ugfv ugivwbrnug.tgwzuwkaauaarkl
gggggAquoogvl gwsppgswgbmurzgaksoa,gvl gbmurzglvbszvogqvtgkpgawuvcrlx
gggggBvsxmbgbkg.ugvpzvr gkpgwzkpuaarlxgkszgrxlkzvliu
gggggBmugovabgrlpkzfu grag.ubbuzgwuzasv u gbmvlgbmugprzab
gggggBmugfrl gxzkqagikabrnugvl gbmricgrlgxzkqrlxgko 
gggggBmugwvzbrisovzguzzkzgprzabgfvcuagbmugws.origuzzkz
gggggBmurzgaksoagauucgzuwkaugrlgvxrbvbrkl
gggggBmutgxulbotglvfugbmuf,gakgbmutgwvbrulbotgul szugbmufg( rauvaua)
gggggBmkaugkwwzuaau gqrbmgakzzkqgakfubrfuagaszwzrau g.tgvgafrou
gggggBmzuvbagkpgbmug vtgkpgys xfulb
gggggBrag.ubbuzgbkgouvlgbkqvz ag ks.bgbmvlgvaaszvliu--Vsxsabrlu
gggggBraglkgfvbbuz;grbgfvtg.ugkpgsaugbkgakfugkbmuza
gggggBkgpkz.uvzg krlxgragkpbulgvagxuluzksagvagbkg k
gggggBkgcroogful,gvgiouvzgvl gabzklxgorxmbgragzuesrzu 
gggggBkkgiklbufwbr.ougbkg.ugwslramu 
gggggBzsugor.uzbtgragbkg.ugv.ougbkg kgqmvbgvgfvlgqroogqrbmgmrfauop
gggggNvabg rabrlibrklg.ubqrhbg unkbrklgvl giklairuliu
gggggQugmvnuglvbszvootgvgpuvzgkpgwvrl,g.sbglkbgkpg uvbm
gggggQmvbg r gRgavt?ggbmvbgRgmvnu?gglk,gImzufua,gRgmv 
gggggQmkg raiuzlglkgzrimuag.sbgrlgwkfwgvl gamkq
gggggQmkunuzgqroog.ugiszu gkpgrxlkzvliugfsabgiklpuaagrb
gggggQkso gmvnugunuztgklugrlgmragwvzbtg.orl gkzgvg.okicmuv 
gggggQzklxgbmugysabgar ugqmulgbmutgxkgv.ksbgbkgvaarabgrbgqrbmgpzvs 
gggggTubgvbgouvabgpkzgvf.rbrkl’agavcu,goubgsagzuyuibgvf.rbrkl






UAAVTAgKPgFRIMUOg UgFKLBVRXLU

Bzvlaovbu g.tgImvzouagIkbbkl

U rbu g.tgQroorvfgIvzuqgMvdorbb

1877




IKLBULBAgKPgNKOSFUg19j

HRRRjggKpgUhwuzruliuj



IMVWBUZgHRRR

KPgUHWUZRULIU

Bmuzugraglkg uarzugfkzuglvbszvogbmvlgbmvbgkpgclkqou xujggQugbztgvoogqvta
bmvbgivlgouv gsagbkgrb;gqmuzugzuvaklgragqvlbrlx,gqugbmuzurlgufwokt
uhwuzruliu,

gggggggggggggg“Wuzgnvzrkagsasagvzbufguhwuzrulbrvgpuirb,
gggggggggggggggUhufwokgfklabzvlbugnrvf,”

ggggg[“.tgnvzrksagbzrvoaguhwuzruliugizuvbu gvzb,guhvfwougamuqrlxgbmu
gggggqvtj”--Fvlrorsa,grjg59j]

qmrimgragvgfuvlagfsimgfkzugquvcgvl gimuvw;g.sbgbzsbmgragakgxzuvbgvgbmrlx
bmvbgqugksxmbglkbgbkg ra vrlgvltgfu rvbrklgbmvbgqroogxsr ugsagbkgrbj
Zuvaklgmvagakgfvltgpkzfagbmvbgqugclkqglkbgbkgqmrimgbkgbvcu;guhwuzruliu
mvaglkgpuquz;gbmugiklauesuliugqugqkso g zvqgpzkfgbmugikfwvzraklgkpgunulba
ragslaszu,g.tgzuvaklgbmutgvzugvoqvtagslorcujggBmuzugraglkgesvorbtgak
slrnuzavogrlgbmragrfvxugkpgbmrlxagvag rnuzarbtgvl gnvzrubtjgg.kbmgbmu
Xzuucagvl gbmugOvbrlagvl gqu,gpkzgbmugfkabguhwzuaaguhvfwougkpgarfrorbs u,
ufwoktgbmvbgkpguxxa;gvl gtubgbmuzugmvnug.uulgful,gwvzbrisovzotgklugvb
 uowmka,gqmkgikso g rabrlxsramgfvzcagkpg rppuzuliugvfklxabguxxagakgquoo
bmvbgmuglunuzgfrabkkcgklugpkzgvlkbmuz,gvl gmvnrlxgfvltgmula,gikso gbuoo
qmrimgmv govr grbj

 raarfrorbs ugrlbzs uagrbauopgkpgrbauopgrlgkszgqkzca;glkgvzbgivlgvzzrnu
vbgwuzpuibgarfrorbs u:glurbmuzgWuzzkdubglkzgvltgkbmuzgivlgakgivzupsoot
wkoramgvl g.ovlimgbmug.vicagkpgmragivz agbmvbgakfugxvfuabuzagqrooglkb
 rabrlxsramgbmufg.tgauurlxgbmufgklotgamsppou g.tgvlkbmuzjggZuauf.ovliu
 kuaglkbgakgfsimgfvcugklugvag rppuzuliugfvcuagvlkbmuzjggLvbszugmva
k.orxu gmuzauopgbkgfvcuglkbmrlxgkbmuzgbmvbgqvaglkbgslorcuj

Vl gtubgRgvfglkbgfsimgwouvau gqrbmgmragkwrlrkl,gqmkgbmksxmbg.tgbmu
fsobrbs ugkpgovqagbkgisz.gbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgys xuagrlgisbbrlxgksbgpkzgbmuf
bmurzgaunuzvogwvziuoa;gmugqvaglkbgvqvzugbmvbgbmuzugragvagfsimgor.uzbtgvl 
ovbrbs ugrlgbmugrlbuzwzubvbrklgkpgovqagvagrlgbmurzgpkzf;gvl gbmutg.sb
pkkogbmufauonua,gqmkgbmrlcgbkgouaaulgvl gabkwgkszg rawsbuag.tgzuivoorlx
sagbkgbmuguhwzuaagqkz agkpgbmug.r.ou:gpkzvafsimgvagkszgfrl g kuaglkbgprl 
bmugpruo gouaagawvirksagqmuzurlgbkgiklbzknuzbgbmugaulaugkpgvlkbmuzgbmvl
bkg uornuzgmragkql;gvl gvagrpgbmuzugquzugouaagvlrfkarbtgvl gbvzbluaagrl
ikffulbvztgbmvlgrlgrlnulbrkljggQugauugmkqgfsimgmugqvagfrabvcul,gpkzgqu
mvnugfkzugovqagrlgPzvliugbmvlgvoogbmugzuabgkpgbmugqkzo gwsbgbkxubmuz,gvl 
fkzugbmvlgqkso g.ugluiuaavztgpkzgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgvoogbmugqkzo agkp
Uwriszsa:

gggggggggg“Sbgkorfgpovxrbrra,gariglsligouxr.sa,gov.kzvfsaj”

ggggg[“Vagqugquzugpkzfuzotg.tgizrfua,gakgqugvzuglkqgknuz.sz ulu g.t
gggggovqaj”--Bvirbsa,gVllvoj,grrrjg25j]

vl gtubgqugmvnugoupbgakgfsimgbkgbmugkwrlrklagvl g uirarklagkpgkszgys xua
bmvbgbmuzuglunuzgqvagakgpsoogvgor.uzbtgkzgakgpsoogvgoriulaujggQmvbgmvnu
kszgouxraovbkzagxvrlu g.tgisoorlxgksbgvgmsl zu gbmksavl gwvzbrisovz
ivaua,gvl g.tgvwwotrlxgbkgbmuaugvgmsl zu gbmksavl govqa?ggBmraglsf.uz
mko aglkgfvlluzgkpgwzkwkzbrklgqrbmgbmugrlprlrbug rnuzarbtgkpgmsfvl
vibrkla;gbmugfsobrworivbrklgkpgkszgrlnulbrklagqrooglunuzgvzzrnugvbgbmu
nvzrubtgkpguhvfwoua;gv  gbkgbmuaugvgmsl zu gbrfuagvagfvltgfkzu,grbgqroo
abrooglkbgmvwwulgbmvb,gkpgunulbagbkgikfu,gbmuzugamvoogklug.ugpksl gbmvb,
rlgbmragnvabglsf.uzgkpgfroorklagkpgunulbagakgimkaulgvl gzuikz u ,gamvoo
akgbvootgqrbmgvltgkbmuzgklu,gvl g.ugakguhvibotgikswou gvl gfvbimu gqrbm
rbgbmvbgbmuzugqrooglkbgzufvrlgakfugirzisfabvliugvl g rnuzarbtgqmrimgqroo
zuesrzugvg rnuzaugys xfulbjggBmuzugragorbbougzuovbrklg.ubqrhbgksz
vibrkla,gqmrimgvzugrlgwuzwubsvogfsbvbrkl,gvl gprhu gvl grffsbv.ougovqa;
bmugfkabgbkg.ug uarzu gvzugbmkaugbmvbgvzugbmugfkabgzvzu,gbmugfkabgarfwou
vl gxuluzvo;gvl gRgvfgunulgkpgkwrlrklgbmvbgqugmv g.ubbuzgmvnuglklugvbgvoo
bmvlgbkgmvnugbmufgrlgakgwzk rxrksagvglsf.uzgvagqugmvnuj

Lvbszugvoqvtagxrnuagbmufg.ubbuzgvl gmvwwruzgbmvlgbmkaugqugfvcugkszauonua;
qrbluaagbmugwribszugkpgbmugXko ulgVxugkpgbmugWkubagvl gbmugabvbugqmuzurl
qugauuglvbrklagornugqmkgmvnuglkgkbmuzjggAkfugbmuzugvzu,gqmkgpkzgbmurz
klotgys xugbvcugbmugprzabgwvaauz-.tgbmvbgbzvnuoagvoklxgbmurzgfkslbvrla,
bkg ubuzfrlugbmurzgivsau;gvl gkbmuzagqmk,gklgbmurzgfvzcubg vt,gimkkaugksb
akfugklugvfklxabgbmufgswklgbmugawkbgbkg uir ugbmurzgiklbzknuzaruajggQmvb
 vlxuzgqkso gbmuzug.ugbmvbgbmugqrauabgvfklxabgsagamkso gakg ubuzfrlu
ksza,gviikz rlxgbkgkiiszzuliuagvl gvbgarxmb,gqrbmksbgk.orxvbrklgkp
uhvfwougvl giklauesuliu?ggPkzgunuztgpkkbgrbagkqlgamkujggCrlxgPuz rlvl ,
aul rlxgikoklruagbkgbmugRl rua,gqrauotgwzknr u gbmvbgbmutgamkso glkb
ivzztgvoklxgqrbmgbmufgvltgabs ulbagkpgyszrawzs uliu,gpkzgpuvzgouabgasrba
amkso gxubgpkkbrlxgrlgbmvbgluqgqkzo ,gvag.urlxgvgairuliugrlgrbagkql
lvbszu,g.zuu uzgkpgvobuzivbrklgvl g rnrarkl;gys xrlxgqrbmgWovbk,g“bmvb
ovqtuzagvl gwmtarirvlagvzug.v grlabrbsbrklagkpgvgikslbztj”

Qmuliug kuagrbgikfugbkgwvaagbmvbgkszgikffklgovlxsvxu,gakguvatgpkzgvoo
kbmuzgsaua,g.uikfuagk.aiszugvl gslrlbuoorxr.ougrlgqrooagvl giklbzviba?
vl gbmvbgmugqmkgakgiouvzotguhwzuaauagmrfauopgrlgqmvbunuzguoaugmugawuvca
kzgqzrbua,givllkbgprl grlgbmuaugvltgqvtgkpg uiovzrlxgmrfauopgbmvbg kua
lkbgpvoogrlbkg ks.bgvl giklbzv ribrkl?grpgrbg.uglkbgbmvbgbmugwzrliuagkp
bmvbgvzb,gvwwotrlxgbmufauonuagqrbmgvgwuisorvzgvbbulbrklgbkgisoogksb
wkzbulbksagqkz agvl gbkgiklbzrnugvzbrprirvogaulbuliua,gmvnugakgqurxmu 
unuztgatoov.ou,gvl gakgbmkzksxmotgarpbu gunuztgakzbgkpgesrzcrlx
iklluibrklgbmvbgbmutgvzuglkqgiklpksl u gvl gulbvlxou grlgbmugrlprlrbtgkp
prxszuagvl gfrlsbug rnrarkla,gvl givlglkgfkzugpvoogqrbmrlgvltgzsougkz
wzuaizrwbrkl,glkzgvltgiuzbvrlgrlbuoorxuliu:

gggggggggg“Iklpsasfguab,gesr esr gsaesugrlgwsonuzufgauibsfguabj”

ggggg[“Qmvbunuzgrag.uvbulgrlbkgwkq uzgragsl rabrlxsramv.oug(iklpsau )j”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g89j]

Vagtksgauugimro zulgbztrlxgbkg.zrlxgvgfvaagkpgesricaronuzgbkgvgiuzbvrl
lsf.uzgkpgwvzba,gbmugfkzugbmutgwzuaagvl gqkzcgrbgvl gul uvnkszgbkgzu siu
rbgbkgbmurzgkqlgqroo,gbmugfkzugbmutgrzzrbvbugbmugor.uzbtgkpgbmragxuluzksa
fubvo;grbgunv uagbmurzgul uvnkszgvl gawzrlcouagrbauopgrlbkgakgfvlt
auwvzvbug.k ruagvagpzsabzvbugvoogzuicklrlx;gakgragrbgmuzu,gpkzgrl
as. rnr rlxgbmuaugas.brobruagqugbuvimgfulgbkgrlizuvaugbmurzg ks.ba;gbmut
wsbgsagrlbkgvgqvtgkpguhbul rlxgvl g rnuzarptrlxg rpprisobrua,gvl 
oulxbmulgvl g rawuzaugbmufjggRlgakqrlxgvl gzubvrorlxgesuabrklagbmutgfvcu
bmugqkzo gpzsibrptgvl grlizuvaugrlgsliuzbvrlbruagvl g rawsbua,gvagbmu
uvzbmgragfv ugpuzbroug.tg.urlxgizsf.ou gvl g sxg uuwj

gggggggggggggggggggg“ rpprisobvbufgpvirbg kibzrlvj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Ouvzlrlxg( kibzrlu)g.uxubag rpprisobtj”
gggggggggggggggg--Esrlbrorvl,gRlavbjgKzvbj,ghjg3j]

Qug ks.bu gkpgSowrvl,gvl gvzugabrooglkqgfkzugwuzwouhu gqrbmg.vzbkosagvl 
.vo sajggQugamkso guppviugbmugbzviugkpgbmragrllsfuzv.oug rnuzarbtgkp
kwrlrkla;glkbgv kzlgkszauonuagqrbmgrb,gvl gproogwkabuzrbtgqrbmgizkbimubaj
Rgclkqglkbgqmvbgbkgavtgbkgrb;g.sbguhwuzruliugfvcuagrbgfvlrpuab,gbmvbgak
fvltgrlbuzwzubvbrklag raarwvbugbzsbmgvl g.zuvcgrbjggVzrabkbougqzkbugbkg.u
sl uzabkk ;grpgmugikso glkbg kgbmra,gfsimgouaagqroogvlkbmuzgbmvbgraglkb
akgxkk gvbgrb;gvl gvgbmrz gbmvlgmu,gqmkguhwzuaau gmragkqlgbmksxmbajggQu
kwulgbmugfvbbuz,gvl gawroogrbgrlgwkszrlxgksb:gkpgklugas.yuibgqugfvcugv
bmksavl ,gvl grlgfsobrwotrlxgvl gas. rnr rlxgbmuf,gpvoogvxvrlgrlbkgbmu
rlprlrbtgkpgvbkfagkpgUwriszsajggLunuzg r gbqkgfulgfvcugbmugavfugys xfulb
kpgbmugavfugbmrlx;gvl g‘bragrfwkaar.ougbkgprl gbqkgkwrlrklaguhvibot
vorcu,glkbgklotgrlgaunuzvogful,g.sbgrlgbmugavfugfvl,gvbg rnuzaugmkszaj
Rgkpbulgprl gfvbbuzgkpg ks.bgrlgbmrlxagkpgqmrimgbmugikffulbvztgmva
 ra vrlu gbkgbvcuglkbriu;gRgvfgfkabgvwbgbkgabsf.ougrlgvlgunulgikslbzt,
orcugakfugmkzauagbmvbgRgmvnugclkql,gbmvbgfvcugfkabgbzrwagrlgbmugafkkbmuab
qvtj

Qmkgqrooglkbgavtgbmvbgxokaauagvsxfulbg ks.bagvl grxlkzvliu,garliugbmuzu’a
lkg.kkcgbkg.ugpksl ,gurbmuzgmsfvlgkzg rnrlu,gqmrimgbmugqkzo g.sarua
rbauopgv.ksb,gqmuzukpgbmug rpprisobruagvzugiouvzu g.tgrlbuzwzubvbrklj
Bmugmsl zu bmgikffulbvbkzgwvaauagrbgklgbkgbmugluhb,gabroogfkzugclkbbtgvl 
wuzwouhu gbmvlgmugpksl grbjggQmulgquzugqugunuzgvxzuu gvfklxabgkszauonua:
“Bmrag.kkcgmvagulksxm;gbmuzugraglkqglkgfkzugbkg.ugavr gv.ksbgrb”?ggBmra
ragfkabgvwwvzulbgrlgbmugovq;gqugxrnugbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgovqgbkgrlprlrbu
 kibkza,grlprlrbug uizuua,gvl gvagfvltgrlbuzwzubvbrkla;gtubg kgqugprl 
vltgul gkpgbmugluu gkpgrlbuzwzubvbrlx?ggragbmuzu,gpkzgvoogbmvb,gvlt
wzkxzuaagkzgv nvliufulbgbkqvz agwuviu,gkzg kgqugabvl grlgluu gkpgvlt
puquzgv nkivbuagvl gys xuagbmvlgqmulgbmragxzuvbgfvaagkpgovqgqvagtubgrl
rbagprzabgrlpvlit?ggKlgbmugiklbzvzt,gqug vzculgvl g.sztgrlbuoorxuliu;gqu
ivlglkgoklxuzg raiknuzgrb,g.sbgvbgbmugfuzitgkpgakgfvltgpuliuagvl 
.vzzruzajggFulg kglkbgclkqgbmuglvbszvog rauvaugkpgbmugfrl ;grbg kua
lkbmrlxg.sbgpuzzubgvl grlesrzu,gvl gragubuzlvootgqmuuorlx,gysxxorlx,gvl 
wuzwouhrlxgrbauopgorcugarocqkzfa,gvl gbmulgasppkivbuagrbauopgrlgrbagqkzc;
“Fsagrlgwriuj”--[“Vgfksaugrlgvgwrbimg.vzzuoj”]--Rbgbmrlcagrbg raiknuza
vbgvgxzuvbg rabvliu,gRgclkqglkbgqmvbgxorfwauagkpgorxmbgvl grfvxrlvzt
bzsbm:g.sbgqmroabgzsllrlxgbkgrb,gakgfvltg rpprisobrua,gmrl zvliua,gvl 
luqgrlesrarbrklagizkaagrb,gbmvbgrbgokauagrbagqvt,gvl gragfv ug zslcgqrbm
bmugfkbrkl:glkbgfsimgslorcugVUakw’ag kxa,gbmvbgauurlxgakfubmrlxgorcugv
 uv g.k tgpokvbrlxgrlgbmugauv,gvl glkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgvwwzkvimgrb,gaubgbk
qkzcgbkg zrlcgbmugqvbuzgvl govtgbmugwvaavxug zt,gvl gakgimkcu 
bmufauonuajggBkgqmrimgqmvbgklugIzvbua’gavr gkpgbmugqzrbrlxagkpgMuzviorbsa
pvooagwvbgulksxm,g“bmvbgbmutgzuesrzu gvgzuv uzgqmkgikso gaqrfgquoo,”gak
bmvbgbmug uwbmgvl gqurxmbgkpgmragouvzlrlxgfrxmbglkbgknuzqmuofgvl gabrpou
mrfjgg‘Braglkbmrlxg.sbgwvzbrisovzgquvcluaagbmvbgfvcuagsagiklbulbgqrbm
qmvbgkbmuzagkzgkszauonuagmvnugpksl gksbgrlgbmragimvaugvpbuzgclkqou xu:
klugkpg.ubbuzgsl uzabvl rlxgqrooglkbgzuabgakgiklbulb;gbmuzugragvoqvta
zkkfgpkzgklugbkgpkookq,glvt,gunulgpkzgkszauonua;gvl gvlkbmuzgzkv ;gbmuzu
raglkgul gkpgkszgrlesrarbrkla;gkszgul gragrlgbmugkbmuzgqkzo jgg‘Bragv
arxlgurbmuzgbmvbgbmugfrl gmvagxzkqlgamkzbarxmbu gqmulgrbgragavbrapru ,gkz
bmvbgrbgmvagxkbgquvztjggLkgxuluzksagfrl givlgabkwgrlgrbauop;grbgqroo
abroogbul gpszbmuzgvl g.utkl grbagwkquz;grbgmvagavooruag.utkl grba
uppuiba;grpgrbg kglkbgv nvliugvl gwzuaagpkzqvz ,gvl gzubrzu,gvl gzsamgvl 
qmuuogv.ksb,g‘brag.sbgmvopgvornu;grbagwszasrbagvzugqrbmksbg.ksl gkz
fubmk ;grbagvorfulbgragv frzvbrkl,gbmugimvau,gvf.rxsrbt,gqmrimgVwkook
aspprirulbotg uiovzu grlgvoqvtagawuvcrlxgbkgsagrlgvg ks.ou,gk.aiszu,gvl 
k.oresugaulau:glkbgpuu rlx,g.sbgvfsarlxgvl gwsddorlxgsajgg‘Bragvl
rzzuxsovzgvl gwuzwubsvogfkbrkl,gqrbmksbgfk uogvl gqrbmksbgvrf;grba
rlnulbrklagmuvb,gwszasu,gvl grlbuzwzk siugklugvlkbmuz:

Uabrullug ugovg.kubru;gbmsagbzvlaovbu g.tgIkbbkl:

ggggggggg“Akgrlgvgzsllrlxgabzuvfgklugqvnugqugauu
ggggggggggVpbuzgvlkbmuzgzkoogrliuaavlbot,
ggggggggggVl gvagbmutgxor u,guvimg kuagasiiuaarnuot
ggggggggggWszasugbmugkbmuz,guvimgbmugkbmuzgpot
gggggggggg.tgbmragbmvb’agunuzfkzugwsamu gkl,gvl gbmra
gggggggggg.tgbmvbgiklbrlsvootgwzuiu u gra:
ggggggggggBmugqvbuzgabroog kuagrlbkgqvbuzgaqroo,
ggggggggggAbroogbmugavfug.zkkc,g.sbg rppuzulbgqvbuzgabrooj”

Bmuzugragfkzugv kgbkgrlbuzwzubgrlbuzwzubvbrklagbmvlgbkgrlbuzwzubgbmrlxa,
vl gfkzug.kkcagswklg.kkcagbmvlgswklgvltgkbmuzgas.yuib;gqug kglkbmrlxg.sb
ikffulbgswklgklugvlkbmuzjggUnuztgwoviugaqvzfagqrbmgikffulbvzrua;gkp
vsbmkzagbmuzugragxzuvbgaivzirbtjggRagrbglkbgbmugwzrlirwvogvl gfkab
zuwsbu gclkqou xugkpgkszgovbuzgvxuagbkgsl uzabvl gbmugouvzlu ?ggRagrbglkb
bmugikffklgvl gprlvogul gkpgvoogabs rua?ggKszgkwrlrklagvzugxzvpbu gswkl
klugvlkbmuz;gbmugprzabgauznuagvagvgabkicgbkgbmugauikl ,gbmugauikl gbkgbmu
bmrz ,gvl gakgpkzbm;gbmsagabuwg.tgabuwgqugiorf.gbmugov  uz;gqmuliugrb
ikfuagbkgwvaagbmvbgmugqmkgragfkslbu gmrxmuabgmvagkpbulgfkzugmklkszgbmvl
fuzrb,gpkzgmugragxkbgswg.sbgvlgrlimgswklgbmugamkso uzagkpgbmugovab,g.sb
kluj

Mkqgkpbul,gvl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gmkqgpkkoramot,gmvnugRguhbul u gftg.kkcgbk
fvcugrbgawuvcgkpgrbauop;gpkkoramot,grpgpkzglkgkbmuzgzuvaklg.sbgbmra,gbmvb
rbgamkso gzufrl gfugkpgqmvbgRgavtgkpgkbmuzagqmkg kgbmugavfu:gbmvbgbmu
pzuesulbgvfkzksagxovliuagbmutgivabgswklgbmurzgqkzcgqrbluaagbmvbgbmurz
muvzbagwvlbgqrbmgauop-oknu,gvl gbmvbgunulgbmug ra vrlpsogaunuzrbt
qmuzuqrbmgbmutgaikszxugbmufgvzug.sbgbmug vl orlxagvl givzuaarlxagkp
fvbuzlvogoknu;gvagVzrabkbou,gqmkaugnvosrlxgvl gsl uznvosrlxgmrfauopgkpbul
awzrlxgpzkfgbmugavfugvrzgkpgvzzkxvliujggFtgkqlguhisaugra,gbmvbgRgksxmbgrl
bmragbkgmvnugfkzugor.uzbtgbmvlgkbmuza,gpkzvafsimgvagRgqzrbugawuirprivoot
kpgftauopgvl gkpgftgqzrbrlxa,gvagRg kgkpgftgkbmuzgvibrkla;gbmvbgftgbmufu
bszlagswklgrbauop;g.sbgRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgkbmuzagqroogviiuwbgbmraguhisauj

Rgk.auznu grlgXuzfvltgbmvbgOsbmuzgmvagoupbgvagfvltg rnrarklagvl g rawsbua
v.ksbgbmug ks.bgkpgmragkwrlrkla,gvl gfkzu,gbmvlgmugmrfauopgzvrau gswkl
bmugMkotgAizrwbszuajggKszgiklbuabgragnuz.vo:gRgvacgqmvbglvbszugra,gqmvb
wouvaszu,girziou,gvl gas.abrbsbrklgvzu?ggbmugesuabrklgragv.ksbgqkz a,gvl 
ragvlaquzu gviikz rlxotjggVgabklugragvg.k t;g.sbgrpgvgfvlgamkso gpszbmuz
szxu:g“Vl gqmvbgragvg.k t?”--“As.abvliu”;g“Vl gqmvbgragas.abvliu?”ggvl 
akgkl,gmugqkso g zrnugbmugzuawkl ulbgbkgbmugul gkpgmragIvouwrlj

ggggg[Ivouwrlg(Vf.zkxrkg vgIvouwrk),gvgpvfksagouhrikxzvwmuzgkpgbmu
gggggprpbuulbmgiulbsztjggMragWkotxokbg ribrklvztg.uivfugakgpvfksa,gbmvb
gggggIvouwrlg.uivfugvgikffklgvwwuoovbrklgpkzgvgouhrikl]

Quguhimvlxugklugqkz gpkzgvlkbmuz,gvl gkpbulgpkzgklugouaagsl uzabkk j
Rg.ubbuzgclkqgqmvbgfvlgragbmvlgRgclkqgqmvbgVlrfvogra,gkzgFkzbvo,gkz
ZvbrklvojggBkgavbraptgklug ks.b,gbmutgxrnugfugbmzuu;g‘bragbmugMt zv’a
muv jggAkizvbuagvacu gFulkl,g“Qmvbgnrzbsugqvaj”gg“Bmuzugra,”gavtagFulkl,
“bmugnrzbsugkpgvgfvlgvl gkpgvgqkfvl,gkpgvgfvxrabzvbugvl gkpgvgwzrnvbu
wuzakl,gkpgvlgko gfvlgvl gkpgvgimro j”gg“Nuztgprlu,”gizru gAkizvbua,
“qugquzugrlgesuabgkpgklugnrzbsu,gvl gbmksgmvabgg.zksxmbgsagvgqmkou
aqvzfj”ggQugwsbgklugesuabrkl,gvl gbmutgzubszlgsagvgqmkougmrnujggVaglk
unulb,glkgpviu,gulbrzuotgzuauf.ouagvlkbmuz,gakg kgbmutglkbgulbrzuot
 rppuz:gvlgrlxulrksagfrhbszugkpglvbszujggRpgkszgpviuagquzuglkbgvorcu,gqu
ikso glkbg rabrlxsramgfvlgpzkfg.uvab;grpgbmutgquzuglkbgslorcu,gqugikso 
lkbg rabrlxsramgklugfvlgpzkfgvlkbmuz;gvoogbmrlxagmko g.tgakfugarfrorbs u;
unuztguhvfwougmvoba,gvl gbmugzuovbrklgqmrimgrag zvqlgpzkfguhwuzruliugra
voqvtagpvsobtgvl grfwuzpuibjggIkfwvzraklagvzugunuz-ikswou gvbgklugul gkz
kbmuz:gakg kgbmugovqagauznu,gvl gvzugprbbu gbkgunuztgklugkpgkszgvppvrza,
.tgakfugqzuabu ,g.rvaau ,gvl gpkziu grlbuzwzubvbrklj

Arliugbmugubmrigovqa,gbmvbgikliuzlgbmugwvzbrisovzg sbtgkpgunuztgklugrl
mrfauop,gvzugakgmvz gbkg.ugpzvfu ,gvagqugauugbmutgvzu,g‘braglkgqkl uzgrp
bmkaugqmrimgxknuzlgakgfvltgwvzbrisovzagvzugfsimgfkzugakjgg kg.sbgiklar uz
bmugpkzfgkpgbmragysabriugbmvbgxknuzlagsa;g‘bragvgbzsugbuabrfkltgkpgmsfvl
quvcluaa,gakgpsoogragrbgkpguzzkzgvl giklbzv ribrkljggQmvbgqugprl gbkg.u
pvnkszgvl gaunuzrbtgrlgysabriu--vl gqugprl gakgfsimgkpgbmufg.kbm,gbmvbgR
clkqglkbgqmubmuzgbmugfu rsfgragvagkpbulgfubgqrbmgvzugaricotgvl gslysab
fuf.uzagkpgbmugnuztg.k tgvl guaauliugkpgysabriujggAkfugikslbztgwukwou
mvnugysabg.zksxmbgfugluqagrlgxzuvbgmvabu,gbmvbgbmutgwzuaulbotgoupbgrlgv
pkzuabgkpgfrlugvgfvlgqrbmgvgmsl zu gqksl agswklgmrf,gqmkgqvagtub
.zuvbmrlx,gvl g.uxxu gkpgbmufgqvbuzgpkzgwrbt’agavcu,gvl gmuowgbkgivzzt
mrfgbkgakfugwoviugkpgzuorup;gbmutgbuoogfugbmutg szabglkbgxkgluvzgmrf,g.sb
mvnugzslgvqvt,gouabgbmugkppriuzagkpgysabriugamkso givbimgbmufgbmuzu;gvl 
vagmvwwulagbkgbmkaugqmkgvzugpksl gluvzgvgfsz uzu gwuzakl,gbmutgamkso g.u
ivoou grlgesuabrklgv.ksbgbmragviir ulb,gbkgbmurzgsbbuzgzsrl,gmvnrlx
lurbmuzgfklutglkzgpzrul agbkg upul gbmurzgrllkiuliujggQmvbgikso gRgmvnu
avr gbkgbmuaugwukwou?gg‘Bragiuzbvrlgbmvbgbmragkppriugkpgmsfvlrbtgqkso 
mvnug.zksxmbgbmufgrlbkgbzks.ouj

Mkqgfvltgrllkiulbgwukwougmvnugqugclkqlgbmvbgmvnug.uulgwslramu ,gvl gbmra
qrbmksbgbmugys xu’agpvsob;gvl gmkqgfvltgbmvbgmvnuglkbgvzzrnu gvbgksz
clkqou xu?ggBmragmvwwulu grlgftgbrfu:giuzbvrlgfulgquzugikl uflu gbkg ru
pkzgvgfsz uzgikffrbbu ;gbmurzgaulbuliu,grpglkbgwzklksliu ,gvbgouvab
 ubuzfrlu gvl giklios u gkljggBmugys xua,gysabgrlgbmuglric,gvzugrlpkzfu 
.tgbmugkppriuzagkpgvlgrlpuzrkzgikszbgmvz g.t,gbmvbgbmutgmvnugakfugfulgrl
isabk t,gqmkgmvnug rzuibotgiklpuaau gbmugfsz uz,gvl gfv ugvlgrl s.rbv.ou
 raiknuztgkpgvoogbmugwvzbrisovzagkpgbmugpvibjggTubgrbgqvagxzvnuot
 uor.uzvbu gqmubmuzgkzglkbgbmutgksxmbgbkgasawul gbmuguhuisbrklgkpgbmu
aulbuliugvozuv tgwvaau gswklgbmugprzabgviisau :gbmutgiklar uzu gbmu
lknuobtgkpgbmuguhvfwougys rirvoot,gvl gbmugiklauesuliugkpgzunuzarlx
ys xfulba;gbmvbgbmugaulbuliugqvagwvaau ,gvl gbmugys xuag uwzrnu gkp
zuwulbvliu;gvl grlgbmugzuasob,gbmuaugwkkzg unroagquzugavizrpriu g.tgbmu
pkzfagkpgysabriujggWmrorw,gkzgakfugkbmuz,ggwzknr u gvxvrlabgvgorcu
rliklnulruliugvpbuzgbmragfvlluzjggMugmv gikl uflu gvgfvlgrlgvgxzuvbgprlu
bkqvz agvlkbmuzg.tgvlgv.akosbugys xfulbjggBmugbzsbmgakfugbrfugvpbuzg.urlx
 raiknuzu ,gmugpksl gbmvbgmugmv gwvaau gvlgslysabgaulbuliujggKlgklugar u
qvagbmugzuvaklgkpgbmugivsau;gklgbmugkbmuzgar u,gbmugzuvaklgkpgbmu
ys rirvogpkzfa:gmugrlgakfugakzbgavbrapru g.kbm,gouvnrlxgbmugaulbuliugrl
bmugabvbugrbgqva,gvl gksbgkpgmragkqlgwszaugzuikfwularlxgbmugikl uflu 
wvzbtjgg.sbgmugmv gbkg kgqrbmgvgzuwvzv.ougvppvrz;gftgfulgquzugrzzuwvzv.ot
mvlxu jggMkqgfvltgikl uflvbrklagmvnugRgauulgfkzugizrfrlvogbmvlgbmugizrfua
bmufauonua?

Voogqmrimgfvcuagfugzufuf.uzgbmugvlirulbgkwrlrkla,g“Bmvbg‘bragkpgluiuaarbt
vgfvlgfsabg kgqzklxg.tgzubvrogqmkgqroog kgzrxmbgrlgxzkaa;gvl grlysabriu
rlgorbbougbmrlxa,gqmkgqkso gikfugbkg kgysabriugrlgxzuvb:gbmvbgmsfvl
ysabriugragpkzfu gvpbuzgbmugfk uogkpgwmtari,gviikz rlxgbkgqmrim,gvoogbmvb
ragsaupsogragvoakgysabgvl gmkluab:gvl gkpgqmvbgragmuo g.tgbmugAbkria,
bmvbgLvbszugmuzauopgwzkiuu agiklbzvztgbkgysabriugrlgfkabgkpgmuzgqkzca:
vl gkpgqmvbgragzuiurnu g.tgbmugItzulvria,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkbmrlxgysabgkp
rbauop,g.sbgbmvbgisabkfagvl govqagfvcugysabriu:gvl gqmvbgbmugBmuk kzrvla
muo gbmvbgbmupb,gavizrouxu,gvl gvoogakzbagkpgsliouvlluaa,gvzugysabgrlgv
avxu,grpgmugclkqagbmufgbkg.ugwzkprbv.ougbkgmrfj”ggBmuzugraglkgzufu t:gR
vfgrlgbmugavfugivaugbmvbgVoir.rv uagqva,gbmvbgRgqrooglunuz,grpgRgivlgmuow
rb,gwsbgftauopgrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgvgfvlgqmkgfvtg ubuzfrlugvagbkgftgmuv ,
qmuzugftgorpugvl gmklkszgamvoogfkzug uwul gswklgbmugacroogvl g rorxuliu
kpgftgvbbkzlutgbmvlgklgftgkqlgrllkiuliujggRgqkso gnulbszugftauopgqrbm
asimgysabriugvagqkso gbvcuglkbriugkpgftgxkk g uu a,gvagquoogvagftgroo;
qmuzugRgmv gvagfsimgbkgmkwugvagbkgpuvz:grl uflrbtgraglkbgaspprirulbgwvt
bkgvgfvlgqmkg kuag.ubbuzgbmvlglkbgbkg kgvfraajggKszgysabriugwzuaulbagbk
sag.sbgklugmvl ,gvl gbmvbgbmugoupbgmvl ,gbkk;goubgmrfg.ugqmkgmugfvt,gmu
amvoog.ugaszugbkgikfugkppgqrbmgokaaj

RlgImrlv,gkpgqmrimgcrlx kfgbmugxknuzlfulbgvl gvzba,gqrbmksbgikffuziugqrbm
kzgclkqou xugkpgksza,gaszwvaagkszguhvfwouagrlgaunuzvoguhiuooulbgpuvbszua,
vl gkpgqmrimgbmugmrabkztgbuvimuagfugmkqgfsimgxzuvbuzgvl gfkzugnvzrksagbmu
qkzo gragbmvlgurbmuzgbmugvlirulbagkzgqugmvnug.uulgv.ougbkgwulubzvbu,gbmu
kppriuzag uwsbu g.tgbmugwzrliugbkgnrarbgbmugabvbugkpgmragwzknrliua,gva
bmutgwslramgbmkaugqmkg.umvnugbmufauonuagroogrlgbmurzgimvzxu,gakg kgbmut
or.uzvootgzuqvz gbmkaugqmkgmvnugikl sibu gbmufauonuag.ubbuzgbmvlgbmu
ikffklgakzb,gvl g.utkl gbmugluiuaarbtgkpgbmurzg sbt;gbmuaugbmuzugwzuaulb
bmufauonua,glkbgklotgbkg.ugvwwzknu g.sbgbkgxub;glkbgarfwotgbkg.ugwvr ,
.sbgbkgmvnugvgwzuaulbgfv ugbkgbmufj

Lkgys xu,gbmvlcgXk ,gmvagunuzgtubgawkculgbkgfugrlgbmugesvorbtgkpgvgys xu,
swklgvltgviikslbgqmvbunuz,gqmubmuzgftgkqlgkzgbmvbgkpgvgbmrz gwvzbt,
qmubmuzgizrfrlvogkzgirnro;glkzglkgwzraklgmvagunuzgzuiurnu gfu,glkbgunul
bkgqvocgbmuzujggRfvxrlvbrklgzul uzagbmugnuztgksbar ugkpgvgyvro
 rawouvarlxgbkgfu;gRgvfgakgulvfkszu gkpgor.uzbt,gbmvbgamkso gRg.u
rlbuz ribu gbmugviiuaagbkgakfugikzluzgkpgbmugRl rua,gRgamkso gornugv
orbbougouaagvbgftguvau;gvl gqmroabgRgivlgprl guvzbmgkzgvrzgkwul
uoauqmuzu,gRgamvooglunuzgoszcgrlgvltgwoviugqmuzugRgfsabgmr ugftauopj
FtgXk !ggmkqgroogamkso gRgul szugbmugikl rbrklgqmuzurlgRgauugakgfvlt
wukwou,glvrou gbkgvgikzluzgkpgbmugcrlx kf,g uwzrnu gkpgbmugzrxmbgbkgulbuz
bmugwzrlirwvogirbruagvl gikszba,gvl gbmugor.uzbtgkpgbmugws.origzkv a,
pkzgmvnrlxgesvzzuoou gqrbmgkszgovqajggRpgbmkaugsl uzgqmrimgRgornugamkso 
amvcugvgprlxuzgvbgfug.tgqvtgkpgfulviu,gRgqkso grffu rvbuotgxkgauucgksb
kbmuza,goubgbmufg.ugqmuzugbmutgqkso jggVoogftgorbbougwzs uliugrlgbmu
irnrogqvzagqmuzurlgqugvzuglkqgulxvxu gragufwoktu gbmvbgbmutgfvtglkb
mrl uzgftgor.uzbtgkpgxkrlxgvl gikfrlxj

Lkq,gbmugovqagcuuwgswgbmurzgizu rb,glkbgpkzg.urlxgysab,g.sbg.uivsaugbmut
vzugovqa;g‘bragbmugftabrigpksl vbrklgkpgbmurzgvsbmkzrbt;gbmutgmvnuglk
kbmuz,gvl grbgquoogvlaquzagbmurzgwszwkaujggBmutgvzugkpbulgfv ug.tgpkkoa,
abroogkpbuluzg.tgfulgqmk,gksbgkpgmvbzu gbkguesvorbt,gpvrogrlguesrbt,g.sb
voqvtag.tgful,gnvrlgvl grzzuakosbugvsbmkzajggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgfsim,
lkzgakgxzkaaot,glkzgakgkz rlvzrotgpvsobt,gvagbmugovqajggQmkunuzgk.uta
bmufg.uivsaugbmutgvzugysab,g kuaglkbgysabotgk.utgbmufgvagmugksxmbjggKsz
Pzulimgovqa,g.tgbmurzgrzzuxsovzrbtgvl g upkzfrbt,goul ,grlgakfugakzb,gv
muowrlxgmvl gbkgbmug rakz uzgvl gikzzswbrklgbmvbgvoogfvlrpuabgrlgbmurz
 rawulavbrklgvl guhuisbrkl:gbmugikffvl gragakgwuzwouhu gvl grliklabvlb,
bmvbgrbgrlgakfugakzbguhisauagvorcug rak.u ruliugvl g upuibgrlgbmu
rlbuzwzubvbrkl,gbmugv frlrabzvbrklgvl gbmugk.auznvbrklgkpgrbjggQmvbgpzsrb
bmulgakunuzgqugfvtguhbzvibgpzkfguhwuzruliu,gbmvbgqroogorbbougv nvlbvxu
kszgrlabrbsbrkl,gqmrimgqug zvqgpzkfgpkzurxlguhvfwoua,grpgqugfvcugak
orbbougwzkprbgkpgbmvbgqugmvnugkpgkszgkql,gqmrimgragfkzugpvfrorvzgbkgsa,
vl ,g ks.bouaa,gaspprirulbgbkgrlabzsibgsagrlgbmvbgqmuzukpgqugmvnugluu j
Rgabs tgftauopgfkzugbmvlgvltgkbmuzgas.yuib;g‘bragftgfubvwmtari,gft
wmtari:

gggggggggggggg“Esrag usagmvligfsl rgbufwuzubgvzbug kfsf:
gggggggggggggggEsvgnulrbguhkzrula,gesvg uprirb:gsl ugikvibra
gggggggggggggggIkzlr.sagrlgwoulsfgfulabzsvgoslvgzu rb
gggggggggggggggSl ugavokgaswuzvlbgnulbr,gesr gpovfrlugivwbub
gggggggggggggggUszsa,gubgrlgls.uagsl ugwuzullragvesv;
gggggggggggggggArbgnulbszvg ruagfsl rgesvugas.zsvbgvziuajjjj”


ggggg[“Qmvbgxk gfvtgxknuzlgqrbmgacroogbmrag quoorlxgkpgbmugqkzo ?ggqmuliu
gggggzrauagbmugfklbmotgfkkl,gqmrbmuzgqvluagamu?ggmkqgragrbgbmvbgmuzgmkzla
gggggvzugiklbzvibu gvl gzukwul?ggqmuliug kgqrl agwzunvrogklgbmugfvrl?
gggggqmvbg kuagbmuguvabgqrl gikszbgqrbmgrbag.ovaba?ggvl gqmuliugvzugbmu
gggggioks agwuzwubsvootgaswworu gqrbmgqvbuz?ggragvg vtgbkgikfugqmrimgfvt
gggggsl uzfrlugbmugqkzo ?”--Wzkwuzbrsa,grrrjg5,g26j]

ggggggggggggggg“Esvuzrbu,geskagvxrbvbgfsl rgov.kzj”

ggggg[“Vacgqmkfgbmugivzuagkpgbmugqkzo gbzks.ou”--Osivl,grjg417j]

Rlgbmragslrnuzavorbt,gRgasppuzgftauopgbkg.ugrxlkzvlbotgvl gluxorxulbot
ou g.tgbmugxuluzvogovqgkpgbmugqkzo :gRgamvoogclkqgrbgquoogulksxmgqmulgR
puuogrb;gftgouvzlrlxgivllkbgfvcugrbgvobuzgrbagikszau;grbgqrooglkbgimvlxu
rbauopgpkzgfu;g‘bragpkootgbkgmkwugrb,gvl gvgxzuvbuzgpkootgbkgikliuzl
klu’agauopgv.ksbgrb,gauurlxgrbgragluiuaavzrotgvorcugws.origvl gikffklj
Bmugxkk luaagvl givwvirbtgkpgbmugxknuzlkzgksxmbgv.akosbuotgbkg raimvzxu
sagkpgvoogivzugkpgbmugxknuzlfulb:gwmrokakwmrivogrlesrarbrklagvl 
iklbufwovbrklagauznugpkzglkgkbmuzgsaug.sbgbkgrlizuvaugkszgiszrkarbtj
Bmugwmrokakwmuza;gqrbmgxzuvbgzuvakl,gaul gsag.vicgbkgbmugzsouagkpglvbszu;
.sbgbmutgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkg kgqrbmgakgas.orfugvgclkqou xu;gbmutgpvoarpt
bmuf,gvl gwzuaulbgsagmuzgpviugwvrlbu gqrbmgbkkgmrxmgvl gbkkgv sobuzvbugv
ikfwouhrkl,gqmuliugawzrlxgakgfvltg rppuzulbgwribszuagkpgakgslrpkzfgv
as.yuibjggVagamugmvagxrnulgsagpuubgbkgqvocgqrbm,gakgmvagamugxrnulgsa
wzs uliugbkgxsr ugsagrlgorpu:glkbgakgrlxulrksa,gzk.sab,gvl gwkfwksagv
wzs uliugvagbmvbgkpgbmurzgrlnulbrkl;g.sbgtubgklugbmvbgraguvat,gesrub,gvl 
avosbvzt,gvl gbmvbgnuztgquoogwuzpkzfagqmvbgbmugkbmuzgwzkfraua,grlgmrfgqmk
mvagbmugxkk gosicgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgufwoktgrbgarliuzuotgvl gzuxsovzot,gbmvb
ragbkgavt,gviikz rlxgbkglvbszujggBmugfkabgarfwotgbkgikffrbgklu’agauopgbk
lvbszugragbkg kgrbgfkabgqrauotjggKm,gqmvbgvgakpb,guvat,gvl gqmkouakfu
wrookqgragrxlkzvliugvl grliszrkarbt,gqmuzuklgbkgzuwkaugvgquoo-kz uzu 
muv !

Rgmv gzvbmuzgsl uzabvl gftauopgquoogrlgftauop,gbmvlgrlgIriuzkjggKpgbmu
uhwuzruliugRgmvnugkpgftauop,gRgprl gulksxmgbkgfvcugfugqrau,grpgRgquzug.sb
vgxkk gaimkovz:gqmkunuzgqroogivoogbkgfrl gbmuguhiuaagkpgmragwvabgvlxuz,
vl gbkgqmvbgvg uxzuugbmvbgpunuzgbzvlawkzbu gmrf,gqroogauugbmug upkzfrbt
kpgbmragwvaarklg.ubbuzgbmvlgrlgVzrabkbou,gvl gikliurnugvgfkzugysabgmvbzu 
vxvrlabgrb;gqmkunuzgqroogzufuf.uzgbmugrooagmugmvagsl uzxklu,gbmkaugbmvb
mvnugbmzuvbulu gmrf,gvl gbmugorxmbgkiivarklagbmvbgmvnugzufknu gmrfgpzkf
klugabvbugbkgvlkbmuz,gqroog.tgbmvbgwzuwvzugmrfauopgpkzgpsbszugimvlxua,
vl gbmugclkqou xugkpgmragikl rbrkljggBmugorpugkpgIvuavzgmvaglkgxzuvbuz
uhvfwougpkzgsagbmvlgkszgkql:gbmksxmgwkwsovzgvl gkpgikffvl ,g‘bragabroogv
orpugas.yuibgbkgvoogmsfvlgviir ulbajggOubgsag.sbgorabulgbkgrb;gqugvwwot
bkgkszauonuagvoogqmuzukpgqugmvnugwzrlirwvogluu ;gqmkunuzgamvoogivoogbk
fufkztgmkqgfvltgvl gfvltgbrfuagmugmvag.uulgfrabvculgrlgmragkqlgys xfulb,
ragmuglkbgvgxzuvbgpkkogrpgmug kuaglkbgunuzgvpbuzgasawuibgrb?ggQmulgRgprl 
ftauopgiklnrliu ,g.tgbmugzuvaklgkpgvlkbmuz,gkpgvgpvoaugkwrlrkl,gRg kglkb
akgfsimgouvzlgqmvbgmugmvagavr gbkgfugbmvbgragluqgvl gbmugwvzbrisovz
rxlkzvliu--bmvbgqkso g.uglkgxzuvbgviesrarbrkl--va,grlgxuluzvo,gRgouvzlgft
kqlg u.rorbtgvl gbmugbzuvimuztgkpgftgsl uzabvl rlx,gqmuliugRguhbzvibgbmu
zupkzfvbrklgkpgbmugqmkougfvaajggRlgvoogftgkbmuzguzzkzagRg kgbmugavfu,gvl 
prl gpzkfgbmragzsougxzuvbgsbrorbtgbkgorpu;gRgzuxvz glkbgbmugawuiruagvl 
rl rnr svogvagvgabklugbmvbgRgmvnugabsf.ou gvb;gRgouvzlgbkgasawuibgft
abuwagbmzksxmksb,gvl gvfgivzupsogbkgwoviugbmufgzrxmbjggBkgouvzlgbmvbgv
fvlgmvagavr gkzg klugvgpkkoramgbmrlxgraglkbmrlx:gvgfvlgfsabgouvzlgbmvbgmu
raglkbmrlxg.sbgvgpkko,gvgfsimgfkzugvfwou,gvl grfwkzbvlbgrlabzsibrkljggBmu
pvoaugabuwagbmvbgftgfufkztgmvagakgkpbulgfv u,gunulgbmulgqmulgrbgqvagfkab
auiszugvl giklpr ulbgkpgrbauop,gvzuglkbgr otgbmzkqlgvqvt;grbgnvrlot
aquvzagvl gvaaszuagfugRgamvcugftguvza;gbmugprzabgkwwkarbrklgbmvbgragfv u
bkgrbagbuabrfkltgwsbagfugrlbkgasawulau,gvl gRg szabglkbgzuotgswklgrbgrl
vltbmrlxgkpgfkfulb,glkzgqvzzvlbgrbgrlgvlkbmuzgwuzakl’agikliuzla:gvl gquzu
rbglkbgbmvbgqmvbgRg kgpkzgqvlbgkpgfufkzt,gkbmuzag kgfkzugkpbulgpkzgqvlb
kpgxkk gpvrbm,gRgamkso gvoqvta,grlgfvbbuzgkpgpvib,gzvbmuzgimkkaugbkgbvcu
bmugbzsbmgpzkfgvlkbmuz’agfksbmgbmvlgpzkfgftgkqljggRpgunuztgklugqkso gwzt
rlbkgbmuguppuibagvl girzisfabvliuagkpgbmugwvaarklagbmvbgaqvtgmrf,gvagR
mvnug klugrlbkgbmkaugqmrimgRgvfgfkabgas.yuibgbk,gmugqkso gauugbmuf
ikfrlx,gvl gqkso gvgorbboug.zuvcgbmurzgrfwubskarbtgvl givzuuz;gbmutg k
lkbgvoqvtagaurdugsagklgvgas  ul;gbmuzugragbmzuvbulrlxgvl g uxzuua

gggggggggggggg“Posibsagsbrgwzrfkgikuwrbgisfgvo.uaiuzugnulbk,
gggggggggggggggWvsovbrfgauaugbkoorbgfvzu,gubgvobrsagsl va
gggggggggggggggUzrxrb,grl ugrfkgiklaszxrbgv gvubmuzvgpsl kj”

ggggg[“Vagqrbmgbmugprzabgqrl gbmugauvg.uxrlagbkgpkvf,gvl gaquooa,gbmuliu
gggggmrxmuzgaquooa,gvl gmrxmuzgzvrauagbmugqvnua,gbroogbmugkiuvlgzraua
gggggpzkfgrbag uwbmagbkgbmugactj”--VUlur ,gnrrjg528j]

Ys xfulbgmko agrlgfugvgfvxrabuzrvogauvb;gvbgouvabgrbgivzupsootgul uvnksza
bkgfvcugrbgak:grbgouvnuagftgvwwubrbuagbkgbvcugbmurzgkqlgikszau,gmvbzu 
vl gpzrul amrw,glvt,gunulgbmvbgRg.uvzgbkgftauop,gqrbmksbgimvlxugkz
ikzzswbrkl;grpgrbgivllkbgzupkzfgbmugkbmuzgwvzbagviikz rlxgbkgrbagkql
fk uo,gvbgouvabgrbgasppuzaglkbgrbauopgbkg.ugikzzswbu g.tgbmuf,g.sbgwovta
rbagxvfugvwvzbj

Bmugv nriugbkgunuztgklu,g“bkgclkqgbmufauonua,”gamkso g.ugkpgrfwkzbvlb
uppuib,garliugbmvbgxk gkpgqra kfgvl gorxmb’givsau grbgbkg.ugqzrbbulgkl
bmugpzklbgkpgmragbufwou,--[Vbg uowmr]--vagikfwzumul rlxgvoogmugmv gbk
v nraugsajggWovbkgavtagvoak,gbmvbgwzs uliugraglkgkbmuzgbmrlxgbmvlgbmu
uhuisbrklgkpgbmragkz rlvliu;gvl gAkizvbuagfrlsbuotgnuzrpruagrbgrl
HulkwmkljggBmug rpprisobruagvl gk.aiszrbtgvzuglkbg raiuzlu grlgvlt
airuliug.sbg.tgbmkaugqmkgvzugxkbgrlbkgrb;gpkzgvgiuzbvrlg uxzuugkp
rlbuoorxuliugragzuesrzu gbkg.ugv.ougbkgclkqgbmvbgvgfvlgclkqaglkb,gvl gqu
fsabgwsamgvxvrlabgvg kkzgbkgclkqgqmubmuzgrbg.ug.kobu gvxvrlabgsagkzglk:
qmuliugbmragWovbklrigas.boubtgawzrlxa,gbmvbg“lurbmuzgbmutgqmkgclkqgvzugbk
ulesrzu,gpkzvafsimgvagbmutgclkq;glkzgbmutgqmkg kglkbgclkq,gpkzvafsimgva
bkgrlesrzugbmutgfsabgclkqgqmvbgbmutgrlesrzugkpj”ggAkgrlgbmra,g“kpgclkqrlx
vgfvl’agauop,”gbmvbgunuztgfvlgragauulgakgzuakonu gvl gavbrapru gqrbm
mrfauop,gbmvbgunuztgfvlgbmrlcagmrfauopgaspprirulbotgrlbuoorxulb,
arxlrpruagbmvbgunuztgklugclkqaglkbmrlxgv.ksbgbmugfvbbuz;gvagAkizvbua
xrnuagUsbmt ufsagbkgsl uzabvl jggR,gqmkgwzkpuaaglkbmrlxguoau,gbmuzurl
prl gakgrlprlrbugvg uwbmgvl gnvzrubt,gbmvbgvoogbmugpzsrbgRgmvnugzuvwu 
pzkfgftgouvzlrlxgauznuagklotgbkgfvcugfugaular.ougmkqgfsimgRgmvnugbk
ouvzljggBkgftgquvcluaa,gakgkpbulgiklpuaau ,gRgkqugbmugwzkwularklgRgmvnu
bkgfk uabt,gbkgbmugk.u ruliugkpg.uorupgwzuaizr.u gfu,gbkgvgiklabvlb
iko luaagvl gfk uzvbrklgkpgkwrlrkla,gvl gvgmvbzu gkpgbmvbgbzks.ouakfugvl 
qzvlxorlxgvzzkxvliu,gqmkootg.uorunrlxgvl gbzsabrlxgrlgrbauop,gbmugivwrbvo
uluftgkpg rairworlugvl gbzsbmjgg kg.sbgmuvzgbmufg kfrluuz;gbmugprzab
pkwwuzruagbmutgsbbuz,g‘bragrlgbmugabtougqmuzuqrbmgfulguabv.oramgzuorxrkla
vl govqa:

gggggggggg“Lrmroguabgbszwrsa,gesvfgikxlrbrklrgubgwuziuwbrkla
ggggggggggvaauzbrklufgvwwzk.vbrklufesugwzvuiszzuzuj”

ggggg[“Lkbmrlxgragqkzaugbmvlgbmvbgvaauzbrklgvl g uirarklgamkso gwzuiu u
gggggclkqou xugvl gwuziuwbrklj”--Iriuzk,gViv j,grjg13j]

Vzrabvzimsagavr gbmvbgvlirulbotgbmuzugquzugaivziugaunulgavxuagbkg.ugpksl 
rlgbmugqkzo ,gvl grlgmragbrfugaivziugakgfvltgpkkoa:gmvnuglkbgqugfkzu
zuvaklgbmvlgmugbkgavtgakgrlgbmragvxugkpgksza?ggVpprzfvbrklgvl gk.abrlvit
vzuguhwzuaagarxlagkpgqvlbgkpgqrbjggBmragpuookqgfvtgmvnugclkicu gmraglkau
vxvrlabgbmugxzksl gvgmsl zu gbrfuagrlgvg vt,gtubgmugqroog.ugvbgmragUzxk’a
vagzuakosbugvl gabsz tgvag.upkzujggTksgqkso gavtgmugmv gmv gakfugluqgakso
vl gnrxkszgkpgsl uzabvl rlxgrlpsau grlbkgmrfgarliu,gvl gbmvbgrbgmvwwulu 
bkgmrf,gvagbkgbmvbgvlirulbgaklgkpgbmuguvzbm,gqmkgbkkcgpzuamgikszvxugvl 
nrxkszg.tgmragpvoo;

gggggggggggggggggggggg“Isrgisfgbubrxuzugwvzulbuf,
ggggggggggggyvfg upuibvgnrxulbgzulknvbvgzk.kzugfuf.zv:”

ggggg[“Qmkaug.zkculgorf.a,gqmulgbmutgbksimu gmragfkbmuzguvzbm,
gggggrffu rvbuotgluqgpkziugviesrzu j”--Osivl,grnjg599j]

 kuaglkbgbmragrlikzzrxr.ougikhikf.gbmrlcgbmvbgmugvaasfuagvgluq
sl uzabvl rlxg.tgsl uzbvcrlxgvgluqg rawsbu?gg‘Brag.tgftgkqlguhwuzruliu
bmvbgRgviisaugmsfvlgrxlkzvliu,gqmrimgra,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gbmugaszuabgwvzb
kpgbmugqkzo ’agaimkkojggAsimgvagqrooglkbgiklios ugrbgrlgbmufauonua,g.tgak
nvrlgvlguhvfwougvagfrlu,gkzgbmurzgkql,goubgbmufg.uorunugrbgpzkfgAkizvbua,
bmugfvabuzgkpgfvabuza;gpkzgbmugwmrokakwmuzgVlbrabmuluagavr gbkgmra
 rairwoua,g“Oubgsagxkgvl gmuvzgAkizvbua;gbmuzugRgqroog.ugvgwswrogqrbmgtks”;
vl ,gfvrlbvrlrlxgbmrag kibzrlugkpgbmugAbkrigauib,g“bmvbgnrzbsugqva
aspprirulbgbkgfvcugvgorpugikfwoubuotgmvwwt,gmvnrlxglkgluu gkpgvltgkbmuz
bmrlxgqmvbunuz”;guhiuwbgkpgbmugpkziugkpgAkizvbua,gv  u gmuj

BmvbgoklxgvbbulbrklgbmvbgRgufwoktgrlgiklar uzrlxgftauop,gvoakgprbagzrou
bkgys xugbkouzv.otgulksxmgkpgkbmuza;gvl gbmuzugvzugpuqgbmrlxagqmuzukpgR
awuvcg.ubbuzgvl gqrbmg.ubbuzguhisaujggRgmvwwulgnuztgkpbulgfkzuguhvibotgbk
auugvl g rabrlxsramgbmugesvorbruagkpgftgpzrul agbmvlgbmutg kgbmufauonua:
Rgmvnugvabklramu gakfugqrbmgbmugwuzbrluliugkpgftg uaizrwbrkl,gvl gmvnu
xrnulgbmufgqvzlrlxgkpgbmufauonuajgg.tgmvnrlxgpzkfgftgrlpvlitg.uul
viisabkfu gbkgiklbufwovbugftgkqlgorpugrlgbmkaugkpgkbmuza,gRgmvnugviesrzu 
vgikfwouhrklgabs rksagrlgbmvbgwvzbrisovz;gvl gqmulgRgvfgkliugrlbuzrbgswkl
rb,gRgoubgpuqgbmrlxagv.ksbgfu,gqmubmuzgikslbulvliua,gmsfksza,
kzg raikszaua,gbmvbgauznugbkgbmvbgwszwkau,guaivwugfujggRgabs tgvoo,
.kbmgqmvbgRgvfgbkgvnkr gvl gqmvbgRgvfgbkgpkookqjggVoakgrlgftgpzrul a,
Rg raiknuzg.tgbmurzgwzk sibrklagbmurzgrlqvz grliorlvbrkla;glkbg.t
vzzvlxrlxgbmragrlprlrbugnvzrubtgkpgakg rnuzaugvl gsliklluibu gvibrkla
rlbkgiuzbvrlgawuiruagvl gimvwbuza,gvl g rabrlibotg rabzr.sbrlxgftgwvziuoa
vl g rnrarklagsl uzgclkqlgmuv agvl giovaaua;

gggggggggg“Au gluesugesvfgfsobvugawuirua,gluiglkfrlvgesvugarlb,
ggggggggggUabglsfuzsaj”

ggggg[“.sbglurbmuzgivlgqugulsfuzvbugmkqgfvltgcrl agbmuzugqmvbgvzugbmurz
ggggglvfuaj”--Nrzxro,gXukzxj,grrjg103j]

Bmugqraugawuvcgvl g uornuzgbmurzgpvliruagfkzugawuirprivoot,gvl gwruiug.t
wruiu;gR,gqmkgauuglkgpszbmuzgrlbkgbmrlxagbmvlgvagsaugrlpkzfagfu,gwzuaulb
frlugxuluzvootgqrbmksbgzsougvl guhwuzrfulbvoot:gRgwzklksliugftgkwrlrklg.t
 raykrlbu gvzbrioua,gvagvgbmrlxgbmvbgivllkbg.ugawkculgvbgkliugvl grl
xzkaa;gzuovbrklgvl giklpkzfrbtgvzuglkbgbkg.ugpksl grlgasimgokqgvl gikffkl
aksoagvagkszajggQra kfgragvgakor gvl gulbrzug.sro rlx,gkpgqmrimgunuzt
wruiugcuuwagrbagwoviugvl g.uvzagrbagfvzc:

ggggggggggggggg“Akovgavwrulbrvgrlgaugbkbvgiklnuzavguabj”

ggggg[“Qra kfgklotgragqmkootgqrbmrlgrbauop”--Iriuzk,g ugPrlj,grrrjg7j]

Rgouvnugrbgbkgvzbraba,gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmubmuzgkzglkgbmutgqroog.ugv.ougbk
.zrlxgrbgv.ksb,grlgakgwuzwouhu ,gfrlsbu,gvl gpkzbsrbksagvgbmrlx,gbk
fvzamvogrlbkg rabrlibg.k ruagbmragrlprlrbug rnuzarbtgkpgpviua,gbkgaubbou
kszgrliklabvlit,gvl gaubgrbgrlgkz uzjggRg kglkbgklotgprl grbgmvz gbk
wruiugkszgvibrklagbkgklugvlkbmuz,g.sbgRgfkzuknuzgprl grbgmvz gwzkwuzotgbk
 uarxlguvimg.tgrbauopg.tgvltgwzrlirwvogesvorbt,gakgvf.rxsksagvl gnvzrpkzf
bmutgvzugqrbmg rnuzaugorxmbajggBmvbgqmrimgragzufvzcu gpkzgzvzugrl
Wuzausa,gcrlxgkpgFviu kl,g“bmvbgmragfrl ,gprhrlxgrbauopgbkglkgklu
ikl rbrkl,gqvl uzu grlgvoogakzbagkpgornrlx,gvl gzuwzuaulbu gfvlluzagak
qro gvl guzzvbrigbmvbgrbgqvaglurbmuzgclkqlgbkgmrfauopgkzgvltgkbmuzgqmvb
crl gkpgfvlgmugqva,”gauufagvofkabgbkgprbgvoogbmugqkzo ;gvl ,guawuirvoot,
Rgmvnugauulgvlkbmuzgkpgmragfvcu,gbkgqmkfgRgbmrlcgbmragikliosarklgfrxmb
fkzugwzkwuzotg.ugvwworu ;glkgfk uzvbugaubbou luaa,gabroogzsllrlxgmuv oklx
pzkfgkluguhbzufugbkgvlkbmuz,gswklgkiivarklaglkbgbkg.ugxsuaau gvb;glkgorlu
kpgwvbmgqrbmksbgbzvnuzaugvl gqkl uzpsogiklbzvzrubt:glkgklugesvorbtgarfwou
vl gslfrhu ;gakgbmvbgbmug.uabgxsuaagfulgivlgklug vtgfvcugqroog.u,gbmvbgmu
vppuibu gvl gabs ru gbkgfvcugmrfauopgclkqlg.tg.urlxglkbgbkg.ugclkqljggV
fvlgmv gluu gmvnugaksl guvzagbkgmuvzgmrfauopgpzvlcotgizrbrirau ;gvl gva
bmuzugvzugpuqgqmkgivlgul szugbkgmuvzgrbgqrbmksbg.urlxglubbou ,gbmkaugqmk
mvdvz gbmugsl uzbvcrlxgrbgbkgsagfvlrpuabgvgarlxsovzguppuibgkpgpzrul amrw;
pkzg‘bragbkgoknugarliuzuotgrl uu ,gbkgnulbszugbkgqksl gvl gkppul gsa,gpkz
kszgkqlgxkk jggRgbmrlcgrbgmvzamgbkgys xugvgfvlgqmkaugroogesvorbruagvzu
fkzugbmvlgmragxkk gklua:gWovbkgzuesrzuagbmzuugbmrlxagrlgmrfgqmkgqroo
uhvfrlugbmugaksogkpgvlkbmuz:gclkqou xu,g.ulunkouliu,g.ko luaaj

Rgqvagakfubrfuagvacu ,gqmvbgRgamkso gmvnugbmksxmbgftauopgprbgpkz,gmv gvlt
klug uarxlu gbkgfvcugsaugkpgfu,gqmrougRgqvagkpgasrbv.ougtuvza:

ggggggggg“ sfgfuorkzgnrzuagavlxsrag v.vb,gvufsovglui sf
ggggggggggBufwkzr.sagxufrlragivlu.vbgawvzavgauluibsa:”

ggggg[“Qmroabg.ubbuzg.okk gxvnugfugnrxksz,gvl g.upkzugulnrksagko gvxu
gggggqmrbulu gvl gbmrllu gftgbufwouaj”--VUlur ,gNjg415j]

“pkzglkbmrlx,”gavr gR;gvl gRgqroorlxotguhisaugftauopgpzkfgclkqrlx
vltbmrlxgqmrimgulaovnuagfugbkgkbmuzajgg.sbgRgmv gbko gbmugbzsbmgbkgft
fvabuz,--[QvagbmragMulzrgNRj?gg jQj]--vl gmv gzuxsovbu gmragfvlluza,grp
mugmv gakgwouvau ,glkbgrlgxzkaa,g.tgaimkovabrigouaakla,gqmrimgR
sl uzabvl glkb,gvl gpzkfgqmrimgRgauuglkgbzsugzupkzfvbrklgawzrlxgrlgbmkau
bmvbg k;g.sbg.tgk.auznrlxgbmufg.tgouraszu,gvbgvoogkwwkzbslrbrua,gvl 
arfwotgvl glvbszvootgys xrlxgbmufgvagvlgutu-qrbluaa,g rabrlibotgklug.t
klu;gxrnrlxgmrfgbkgsl uzabvl gswklgqmvbgbuzfagmugqvagrlgbmugikffkl
kwrlrkl,grlgkwwkarbrklgbkgmragpovbbuzuzajggBmuzugraglklugkpgsagqmkgqkso 
lkbg.ugqkzaugbmvlgcrlxa,grpgakgiklbrlsvootgikzzswbu gvagbmutgvzugqrbm
bmvbgakzbgkpgivlvrooujggMkq,grpgVouhvl uz,gbmvbgxzuvbgcrlxgvl 
wmrokakwmuz,givllkbg upul gmrfauopgpzkfgbmuf!

Rgamkso gmvnugmv gpr uorbt,gys xfulb,gvl gpzuu kfgulksxmgpkzgbmvb
wszwkaujggRbgqkso g.ugvglvfuouaagkppriu,gkbmuzqraugrbgqkso gokaugrba
xzviugvl grbaguppuib;gvl g‘bragvgwvzbgbmvbgraglkbgrl rppuzulbotgprbgpkz
voogful;gpkzgbzsbmgrbauopgmvaglkbgbmugwzrnrouxugbkg.ugawkculgvbgvoogbrfua
vl grl raizrfrlvbuot;grbagsau,glk.ougvagrbgra,gmvagrbagirzisfawuibrkla
vl gorfrbajggRbgkpbulgpvooagksb,gvagbmugqkzo gxkua,gbmvbgvgfvlgoubagrb
aorwgrlbkgbmuguvzgkpgvgwzrliu,glkbgklotgbkglkgwszwkau,g.sbgfkzuknuz
rlyszrksaotgvl gslysabot;gvl glkgfvlgamvoogfvcugfug.uorunugbmvbgv
nrzbsksagzufklabzvliugfvtglkbg.ugnrirksaotgvwworu ,gvl gbmvbgbmugrlbuzuab
kpgbmugas.abvliugraglkbgkpbulgbkgxrnugqvtgbkgbmvbgkpgbmugpkzfj

Pkzgasimgvgwszwkau,gRgqkso ggmvnugvgfvlgqmkgragiklbulbgqrbmgmragkql
pkzbslu:

ggggggggggggggg“Esk garb,guaaugnuorb,glrmroesugfvorb,”

gggggggggg[“Qmkgragwouvau gqrbmgqmvbgmugragvl g uarzuaglkbmrlxgpszbmuzj”
ggggggggggg--Fvzbrvo,ghjgrr,g18j]

vl gkpgfk uzvbugabvbrkl;gpkzvafsimgva,gklgbmugklugmvl ,gmugqkso glkbg.u
vpzvr gbkgbksimgmragfvabuz’agmuvzbgbkgbmugesric,gpkzgpuvzg.tgbmvbgfuvla
kpgokarlxgmragwzupuzfulb:gvl ,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,g.urlxgkpglkgmrxm
esvorbt,gmugqkso gmvnugfkzuguvatgikffslrivbrklgqrbmgvoogakzbagkpgwukwouj
Rgqkso gmvnugbmragkppriugorfrbu gbkgklotgklugwuzakl;gpkzgbkgvookqgbmu
wzrnrouxugkpgmragor.uzbtgvl gwzrnvitgbkgfvlt,gqkso g.uxubgvlgrliklnulrulb
rzzunuzuliu;gvl gkpgbmvbgklu,gRgqkso gv.knugvoogbmrlxagzuesrzugbmu
pr uorbtgkpgarouliuj

Vgcrlxgraglkbgbkg.ug.uorunu gqmulgmug.zvxagkpgmragiklabvlitgrlgabvl rlx
bmugamkicgkpgbmuguluftgpkzgmragxokzt,grpgpkzgmragwzkprbgvl gvful fulbgmu
ivllkbgabvl gbmugor.uzbtgkpgvgpzrul ’agv nriu,gqmrimgmvaglkgkbmuzgwkquz
.sbgbkgwrlimgmraguvz,gbmugzufvrl uzgkpgrbaguppuibg.urlxgabroogrlgmragkql
mvl ajggLkq,gbmuzugraglkgikl rbrklgkpgfulgqmvbunuzgqmkgabvl grlgakgxzuvb
luu gkpgbzsugvl gpzuugv nriugvl gqvzlrlx,gvagbmutg k:gbmutgasabvrlgv
ws.origorpu,gvl gmvnugbkgavbraptgbmugkwrlrklgkpgakgfvltgawuibvbkza,gbmvb,
vagbmkaugv.ksbgbmufgikliuvogpzkfgbmufgqmvbunuzgamkso g rnuzbgbmufgpzkf
bmurzgkqlgqvt,gbmutgrlaular.otgprl gbmufauonuagrlnkonu grlgbmugmvbzu gvl 
 ubuabvbrklgkpgbmurzgwukwou,gkpbulgswklgkiivarklagqmrimgbmutgfrxmbgmvnu
vnkr u gqrbmksbgvltgwzuys riugunulgkpgbmurzgwouvaszuagbmufauonua,gmv 
bmutg.uulgv nrau gvl gaubgzrxmbgrlgbrfujggBmurzgpvnkszrbuagikffklotgmvnu
fkzugzuxvz gbkgbmufauonuagbmvlgbkgbmurzgfvabuz;gvl grl uu grbgvlaquza
qrbmgbmuf,gpkzvafsimgva,grlgbzsbm,gfkabgkppriuagkpgzuvogpzrul amrw,gqmul
vwworu gbkgbmugaknuzurxl,gvzugsl uzgvgzs ugvl g vlxuzksagmvdvz ,gakgbmvb
bmuzurlgbmuzugragxzuvbgluu ,glkbgklotgkpgnuztgxzuvbgvppuibrklgvl 
pzuu kf,g.sbgkpgikszvxugbkkj

Rlgprlu,gvoogbmragmk xu-wk xugqmrimgRgaizr..ougmuzu,graglkbmrlxg.sbgv
zuxrabuzgkpgbmuguaavtagkpgftgkqlgorpu,gqmrim,gpkzgbmugrlbuzlvogaksl luaa,
raguhufwovztgulksxmgbkgbvcugrlabzsibrklgvxvrlabgbmugxzvrl;g.sbgvagbk
.k rotgmuvobm,glkgfvlgivlgpszlramgksbgfkzugwzkprbv.ouguhwuzruliugbmvlgR,
qmkgwzuaulbgrbgwszu,gvl glkgqvtgikzzswbu gvl gimvlxu g.tgvzbgkzgkwrlrklj
Uhwuzruliugragwzkwuzotgswklgrbagkqlg slxmroogrlgbmugas.yuibgkpgwmtari,
qmuzugzuvaklgqmkootgxrnuagrbgwoviu:gBr.uzrsagavr gbmvbgqmkunuzgmv gornu 
bqulbtgtuvzagksxmbgbkg.ugzuawklar.ougbkgmrfauopgpkzgvoogbmrlxagbmvbgquzu
mszbpsogkzgqmkouakfugbkgmrf,gvl gclkqgmkqgbkgkz uzgmrfauopgqrbmksb
wmtari;

ggggg[VoogbmvbgAsubklrsagavtagrlgmragOrpugkpgBr.uzrsagragbmvbgbmra
gggggufwuzkz,gvpbuzgmugqvagbmrzbtgtuvzagko ,gxknuzlu gmragmuvobmgqrbmksb
gggggbmugvr gkpgwmtarirvla;gvl gqmvbgWosbvzimgbuooagsa,grlgmraguaavtgkl
gggggbmugZsouagvl gWzuiuwbagkpgMuvobm,gragbmvbgBr.uzrsagavr gbmvbgbmugfvl
gggggqmk,gmvnrlxgvbbvrlu garhbtgtuvza,gmuo gksbgmragwsoaugbkgvgwmtarirvl
gggggqvagvgpkkoj]

vl gmugfrxmbgmvnugouvzlu grbgkpgAkizvbua,gqmk,gv nrarlxgmrag rairwouagbk
.ugakorirbksagkpgbmurzgmuvobmgvagvgimrupgabs t,gv  u gbmvbgrbgqvagmvz grp
vgfvlgkpgaulau,gmvnrlxgvgivzugbkgmraguhuziraugvl g rub,g r glkbg.ubbuz
clkqgbmvlgvltgwmtarirvlgqmvbgqvagxkk gkzgroogpkzgmrfjggVl gwmtarigrbauop
wzkpuaauagvoqvtagbkgmvnuguhwuzruliugpkzgbmugbuabgkpgrbagkwuzvbrkla:gak
Wovbkgmv gzuvaklgbkgavtgbmvb,gbkg.ugvgzrxmbgwmtarirvl,grbgqkso g.u
luiuaavztgbmvbgmugqmkgqkso g.uikfugasim,gamkso gprzabgmrfauopgmvnugwvaau 
bmzksxmgvoogbmug rauvauagmugwzubul agbkgiszu,gvl gbmzksxmgvoogbmu
viir ulbagvl girzisfabvliuagqmuzukpgmugragbkgys xujgg‘Brag.sbgzuvaklgbmut
amkso gxubgbmugwkh,grpgbmutgqroogclkqgmkqgbkgiszugrb;gpkzgftgwvzb,
Rgamkso gwsbgftauopgrlbkgasimgmvl a;gbmugkbmuzag.sbgxsr ugsa,gorcugmrf
qmkgwvrlbagauvagvl gzkicagvl gwkzbagarbbrlxgvbgbv.ou,gvl gbmuzugfvcuagbmu
fk uogkpgvgamrwgavrorlxgrlgvoogauiszrbt;g.sbgwsbgmrfgbkgbmugqkzcgrbauop,
mugclkqaglkbgvbgqmrimgul gbkg.uxrljggBmutgfvcugasimgvg uaizrwbrklgkpgksz
fvov ruagvagvgbkqlgizruzg kuagkpgvgokabgmkzaugkzg kx--asimgvgikokz,gasim
vgmurxmb,gasimgvlguvz--.sbg.zrlxgrbgbkgmrfgvl gmugclkqagrbglkb,gpkzgvoo
bmvbjggRpgwmtarigamkso gklug vtgxrnugfugakfugxkk gvl gnrar.ougzuorup,
bmulgbzsotgRgqroogiztgksbgrlgxkk guvzluab:

ggggggggggggggg“Bvl ufguppivirg kgfvlsagairulbrvuj”

ggggg[“Amkqgfugvl gupprivirksagairuliu,gvl gRgqroogbvcugrbg.tgbmugmvl j”
gggggg--Mkzviu,ghnrrjgRj]

Bmugvzbagbmvbgwzkfraugbkgcuuwgkszg.k ruagvl gaksoagrlgmuvobmgwzkfraugv
xzuvbg uvo;g.sb,gqrbmvo,gbmuzugvzuglklugbmvbgouaagcuuwgbmurzgwzkfrauj
Vl ,grlgkszgbrfu,gbmkaugqmkgfvcugwzkpuaarklgkpgbmuaugvzbagvfklxabgsa,
ouaagfvlrpuabgbmuguppuibagbmvlgvltgkbmuzgakzbgkpgful;gklugfvtgavtgkp
bmuf,gvbgbmugfkab,gbmvbgbmutgauoogfu rirlvog zsxa;g.sbgbmvbgbmutgvzu
wmtarirvla,gvgfvlgivllkbgavtj

ggggg[Bmugu rbrklgkpg1588gv  a:g“Ys xrlxg.tgbmufauonua,gvl gbmkau
gggggqmkgvzugzsou g.tgbmufj”]

Rgmvnugornu goklxgulksxmgbkg.ugv.ougbkgxrnugvlgviikslbgkpgbmugisabkfgbmvb
mvagivzzru gfugakgpvz;gpkzgmrfgqmkgmvagvgfrl gbkgbztgrb,gvagmragbvabuz,
Rgmvnugfv ugbmuguhwuzrfulbjggMuzugvzugakfugkpgbmugvzbrioua,gvagftgfufkzt
amvoogaswwotgfugqrbmgbmuf;gRgmvnuglkgisabkfgbmvbgmvaglkbgnvzru gviikz rlx
bkgirzisfabvliua;g.sbgRgklotgzuikz gbmkaugbmvbgRgmvnug.uulg.uab
viesvrlbu gqrbm,gvl gbmvbgmrbmuzbkgmvnugmv gbmugxzuvbuabgwkaauaarklgkp
fuj

Ftgpkzfgkpgorpugragbmugavfugrlgaricluaagvagrlgmuvobm;gbmugavfug.u ,gbmu
avfugmksza,gbmugavfugfuvb,gvl gunulgbmugavfug zrlc,gauznugfugrlg.kbm
ikl rbrklagvorcu;gRgv  glkbmrlxgbkgbmufg.sbgbmugfk uzvbrklgkpgfkzugkz
ouaa,gviikz rlxgbkgftgabzulxbmgvl gvwwubrbujggFtgmuvobmgragbkgfvrlbvrlgft
qklbu gabvbugqrbmksbg rabsz.vliujggRgauugbmvbgaricluaagwsbagfugkppgrbgkl
klugar u,gvl grpgRgqroog.ugzsou g.tgbmugwmtarirvla,gbmutgqroogwsbgfugkpp
klgbmugkbmuz;gakgbmvbg.tgpkzbslugvl g.tgvzbgRgvfgksbgkpgftgqvtj
Rg.uorunuglkbmrlxgfkzugiuzbvrlotgbmvlgbmra,gbmvbgRgivllkbg.ugmszbg.tgbmu
saugkpgbmrlxagbkgqmrimgRgmvnug.uulgakgoklxgviisabkfu jgg‘Bragpkzgisabkf
bkgxrnugvgpkzfgbkgvgfvl’agorpu,gasimgvagrbgwouvauagmrf;gamugragvoogrlgvoo
rlgbmvb:g‘bragbmugwkbrklgkpgIrziu,gbmvbgnvzruagkszglvbszugvagamug.uab
wouvauajggMkqgfvltglvbrkla,gvl g.sbgbmzuugabuwagpzkfgsa,gbmrlcgbmugpuvz
kpgbmuglrxmb- uq,gbmvbgakgfvlrpuabotgragmszbpsogbkgsa,gvgzr risoksa
pvlit;gvl gkszgkqlgqvbuzfulgvl gwuvavlbagovsxmgvbgrbjggTksgfvcugvgXuzfvl
aricgrpgtksgovtgmrfgswklgvgfvbbzuaa,gvagtksg kgvlgRbvorvlgrpgtksgovtgmrf
klgvgpuvbmuz-.u ,gvl gvgPzulimfvl,grpgqrbmksbgiszbvrlagkzgprzujgVgAwvlram
abkfvimgivllkbgmko gksbgbkguvbgvagqugivl,glkzgkszagbkg zrlcgorcugbmu
AqraajggVgXuzfvlgfv ugfugnuztgfuzztgvbgVsxa.szx,g.tgprl rlxgpvsobgqrbm
kszgmuvzbma,g.tgbmugavfugvzxsfulbagqmrimgqugikffklotgfvcugsaugkpgrl
 uiztrlxgbmurzgabknua:gpkz,gbkgavtgbmugbzsbm,gbmugafkbmuzu gmuvb,gvl 
bmulgbmugafuoogkpgbmvbgmuvbu gfvbbuzgkpgqmrimgbmugprzugragikfwkau ,gnuzt
fsimgkppul gasimgvagvzuglkbgsau gbkgbmuf;glkbgfu;gvl ,grl uu ,gbmugmuvb
.urlxgvoqvtaguesvo,giklabvlb,gvl gslrnuzavo,gqrbmksbgpovfu,gqrbmksb
afkcu,gvl gqrbmksbgbmugqrl gbmvbgikfuag kqlgkszgimrfluta,gbmutgfvtgfvlt
qvtagasabvrlgikfwvzraklgqrbmgkszajggQmtg kgquglkbgrfrbvbugbmugZkfvl
vzimrbuibszu?gpkzgbmutgavtgbmvbgvlirulbotgprzuagquzuglkbgfv ugrlgbmu
mksaua,g.sbgklgbmugksbar u,gvl gvbgbmugpkkbgkpgbmuf,gqmuliugbmugmuvbgqva
iklnutu gbkgbmugqmkougpv.zrig.tgwrwuagiklbzrnu grlgbmugqvoo,gqmrimgquzu
 zvqlgbqrlrlxgv.ksbgbmugzkkfagbmvbgquzugbkg.ugqvzfu :gqmrimgRgmvnugauul
wovrlotg uaizr.u gakfuqmuzugrlgAuluivjggBmragXuzfvlgmuvzrlxgfugikfful 
bmugiklnulruliuagvl g.uvsbruagkpgmragirbt,gqmrimgbzsotg uauznuagrb,g.uxvl
bkgikfwvaarklvbugfugbmvbgRgmv gbkgouvnugrb;gvl gbmugprzabgrliklnulruliu
mugvoouxu gbkgfugqva,gbmugmuvnrluaagkpgmuv gbmvbgbmugimrflutaguoauqmuzu
qkso g.zrlxgswklgfujggMugmv gmuvz gakfugklugfvcugbmragikfwovrlb,gvl 
prhu grbgswklgsa,g.urlxg.tgisabkfg uwzrnu gkpgbmugfuvlagkpgwuziurnrlxgrb
vbgmkfujggVoogmuvbgbmvbgikfuagpzkfgbmugprzugquvculagvl g sooagfujggUnulsa
avr gbmvbgprzugqvagbmug.uabgikl rfulbgkpgorpu:gRgzvbmuzgimkkaugvltgkbmuz
qvtgkpgfvcrlxgftauopgqvzfj

Qugvzugvpzvr gbkg zrlcgkszgqrlua,gqmulgbkqvz gbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmugivac;grl
Wkzbsxvogbmkaugpsfuagvzugzuwsbu g uorirksa,gvl grbgragbmug.unuzvxugkp
wzrliuajggRlgamkzb,gunuztglvbrklgmvagfvltgisabkfagvl gsavxuagbmvbgvzuglkb
klotgslclkqlgbkgkbmuzglvbrkla,g.sbgavnvxugvl gfrzvisoksagrlgbmurzgarxmbj
Qmvbgamkso gqug kgqrbmgbmkaugwukwougqmkgv frbgkpglkgunr uliugbmvbgraglkb
rlgwzrlb,gqmkg.uorunuglkbgfulgrpgbmutgvzuglkbgrlgvg.kkc,glkzgbzsbmgrpgrb
.uglkbgkpgikfwubulbgvxu?gqug rxlrptgkszgpkwwuzruagqmulgqugikffrbgbmufgbk
bmugwzuaa:g‘bragkpgvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugqurxmbgbkgavt,g“Rgmvnugzuv gasimgv
bmrlx,”gbmvlgrpgtksgklotgavt,g“Rgmvnugmuvz gasimgvgbmrlxj”gg.sbgR,gqmkglk
fkzug ra.uorunugvgfvl’agfksbmgbmvlgmragwul,gvl gqmkgclkqgbmvbgfulgqzrbu
vagrl raizuubotgvagbmutgawuvc,gvl gqmkgokkcgswklgbmragvxugvagklugbmvbgra
wvab,gvagakklgeskbugvgpzrul gvagVsosagXuoorsakzgFvizk.rsa;gvl gqmvbgR
mvnugauul,gvagqmvbgbmutgmvnugqzrbbuljggVl ,gvag‘bragmuo gkpgnrzbsu,gbmvb
rbgraglkbgxzuvbuzgpkzgmvnrlxgiklbrlsu goklxuz,gakg kgRgmko gkpgbzsbm,
bmvbgpkzg.urlxgko uzgrbgraglklugbmugqrauzjggRgkpbulgavt,gbmvbgrbgragfuzu
pkootgbmvbgfvcuagsagzslgvpbuzgpkzurxlgvl gaimkovabriguhvfwoua;gbmurz
puzbrorbtgragbmugavfuglkqgbmvbgrbgqvagrlgbmugbrfugkpgMkfuzgvl gWovbkj
.sbgragrbglkbgbmvbgqugauucgfkzugmklkszgpzkfgbmugeskbvbrkl,gbmvlgpzkfgbmu
bzsbmgkpgbmugfvbbuzgrlgmvl ?ggVagrpgrbgquzugfkzugbkgbmugwszwkaugbkg.kzzkq
kszgwzkkpagpzkfgbmugamkwagkpgNvaikavlgkzgWovlbrl,gbmvlgpzkfgqmvbgragbkg.u
auulgrlgkszgkqlgnroovxu;gkzguoau,grl uu ,gbmvbgqugmvnuglkbgbmugqrbgbk
isoogksbgvl gfvcugsaupsogqmvbgqugauug.upkzugsa,gvl gbkgys xugkpgrb
iouvzotgulksxmgbkg zvqgrbgrlbkguhvfwou:gpkzgrpgqugavtgbmvbgqugqvlb
vsbmkzrbtgbkgxrnugpvrbmgbkgkszgbuabrfklt,gqugawuvcgpzkfgbmugwszwkau;
pkzvafsimgva,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gkpgbmugfkabgkz rlvzt,gikffkl,gvl gclkql
bmrlxa,gikso gqug.sbgprl gksbgbmurzgorxmb,gbmugxzuvbuabgfrzviouagkp
lvbszugfrxmbg.ugpkzfu ,gvl gbmugfkabgqkl uzpsoguhvfwoua,guawuirvootgswkl
bmugas.yuibgkpgmsfvlgvibrklaj

Lkq,gswklgbmragas.yuib,gaubbrlxgvar ugbmuguhvfwouagRgmvnugxvbmuzu gpzkf
.kkca,gvl gqmvbgVzrabkbougavtagkpgVl zklgbmugVzxrvl,gbmvbgmugbzvnuoou 
knuzgbmugvzr gavl agkpgOt.rvgqrbmksbg zrlcrlx:gvgxulboufvl,gqmkgmvagnuzt
quoog.umvnu gmrfauopgrlgaunuzvogufwoktfulba,gavr ,grlgvgwoviugqmuzugR
qva,gbmvbgmugmv gzr  ulgpzkfgFv zr gbkgOra.kl,grlgbmugmuvbgkpgasffuz,
qrbmksbgvltg zrlcgvbgvoojggMugragnuztgmuvobmpsogvl gnrxkzksagpkzgmragvxu,
vl gmvaglkbmrlxguhbzvkz rlvztgrlgbmugsaugkpgmragorpu,g.sbgbmra,gbkgornu
akfubrfuagbqkgkzgbmzuugfklbma,glvt,gvgqmkougtuvz,gvagmugmvagbko gfu,
qrbmksbg zrlcrlxjggMugragakfubrfuagbmrzabt,g.sbgmugoubagrbgwvaagknuz,
vl gmugmko agbmvbgrbgragvlgvwwubrbugqmrimguvarotgxkuagkppgkpgrbauop;
vl gmug zrlcagfkzugksbgkpgivwzriugbmvlgurbmuzgpkzgluu gkzgwouvaszuj

Muzugragvlkbmuzguhvfwou:g‘braglkbgoklxgvxkgbmvbgRgpksl gklugkpgbmu
ouvzlu uabgfulgrlgPzvliu,gvfklxgbmkaugkpglkbgrliklar uzv.ougpkzbslu,
abs trlxgrlgvgikzluzgkpgvgmvoogbmvbgbmutgmv gauwvzvbu gpkzgmrfgqrbm
bvwuabzt,gvl gv.ksbgmrfgvgzv..ougkpgmragauznvlbagpsoogkpgoriuliujggMu
bko gfu,gvl gAuluivgvofkabgavtagbmugavfugkpgmrfauop,ggmugfv ugvl
v nvlbvxugkpgbmragms..s.;gbmvb,g.uvbulgqrbmgbmraglkrau,gmugakgfsim
bmugfkzugikoouibu gvl gzubrzu gmrfauopgrlbkgmrfauopgpkzgiklbufwovbrkl,
vl gbmvbgbmragbufwuabgkpgnkriuag zknug.vicgmragbmksxmbagqrbmrlgmrfauopj
.urlxgvgabs ulbgvbgWv sv,gmugmv gmragabs tgakgoklxgarbsvbu gvfr gbmu
zvbbougkpgikvimuagvl gbmugbsfsobgkpgbmugaesvzu,gbmvbgmuglkbgklotgpkzfu 
mrfauopgbkgbmugiklbufwb,g.sbgunulgbkgbmugsaugkpglkrau,gpkzgbmugauznriugkp
mragabs ruajggAkizvbuagvlaquzu gVoir.rv ua,gqmkgqvagvabklramu gmkqgmu
ikso gul szugbmugwuzwubsvogaiko rlxgkpgmragqrpu,g“Qmt,”gavr gmu,g“va
bmkaug kgqmkgvzugviisabkfu gbkgbmugkz rlvztglkraugkpgqmuuoag zvqrlx
qvbuzj”ggRgvfgesrbugkbmuzqrau;gRgmvnugvgbul uzgmuv gvl guvarot
 raikfwkau ;gqmulg‘brag.ulbgswklgvltbmrlx,gbmugouvabg.sddrlxgkpgvgpot
fsz uzagrbj

Auluivgrlgmragtksbmgmvnrlxgqvzfotguawksau gbmuguhvfwougkpgAuhbrsa,gkp
uvbrlxglkbmrlxgbmvbgmv g ru ,gpkzgvgqmkougtuvzg rawulau gqrbmgasimgpkk ,
vl ,gvagmugavr ,gqrbmgwouvaszu,gvl g raiklbrlsu grbgbmvbgmugfrxmbglkbg.u
asawuibu gkpgbvcrlxgswgbmragzsougpzkfgakfugluqgzuorxrklg.tgqmrimgrbgqva
wzuaizr.u :gmugv kwbu ,grlgorcugfvlluz,gpzkfgbmugwzuiuwbagkpgVbbvosagv
isabkfglkbgbkgorugswklgvltgakzbgkpg.u  rlxgbmvbgxvnugqvtgsl uzgmra
qurxmb,gvl ,gunulgbkgmragko gvxu,gfv ugsaugkpgasimgvagqkso glkbgtruo gbk
vltgwzuaaszujggQmvbgbmugsavxugkpgmragbrfugfv ugmrfgviikslbgzksxmluaa,
bmvbgkpgkszagfvcuagsagokkcgswklgvaguppufrlvitj

 kg.sbgk.auznugbmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgbmugqvtgkpgornrlxgkpgftgov.kszuza
vl gftgkql;gbmugAitbmrvlagvl gRl rvlagmvnuglkbmrlxgfkzugzufkbug.kbmgpzkf
ftgivwvirbtgvl gftgpkzfjggRgmvnugwricu gswgimvzrbtgg.ktagbkgauznugfu:gqmk
akklgvpbuzgmvnugesrbbu g.kbmgftgcrbimulgvl gornuzt,gklotgbmvbgbmutgfrxmb
zubszlgbkgbmurzgpkzfuzgikszaugkpgorpu;gvl gRgpksl gklugvpbuzqvz a,
wricrlxgfsaauoagksbgkpgbmugauquzgpkzgmrag rlluz,gqmkfgRgikso glurbmuzg.t
ulbzuvbruaglkzgbmzuvbagzuiovrfgpzkfgbmugaquubluaagmugpksl grlgrl rxuliuj
.uxxvzagmvnugbmurzgfvxlrpriuliuagvl g uorxmba,gvagquoogvagbmugzrim,gvl ,
‘bragavr ,gbmurzg rxlrbruagvl gwkorbruajggBmuaugvzugbmuguppuibagkp
isabkf;gamugivlgfkso gsa,glkbgklotgrlbkgqmvbgpkzfgamugwouvauag(bmugavxua
avtgqugksxmbgbkgvwwotgkszauonuagbkgbmug.uab,gqmrimgamugqroogakklgfvcu
uvatgbkgsa),g.sbgvoakgbkgimvlxugvl gnvzrvbrkl,gqmrimgragbmugfkabglk.ou
vl gfkabgsaupsogrlabzsibrklgkpgvoogamugbuvimuagsajggBmug.uabgkpgftg.k rot
ikl rbrklagragbmvbgRgvfgpouhr.ougvl glkbgnuztgk.abrlvbu:gRgmvnu
rliorlvbrklagfkzugftgkqlgvl gkz rlvzt,gvl gfkzugvxzuuv.ougbmvlgkbmuza;
.sbgRgvfg rnuzbu gpzkfgbmufgqrbmgnuztgorbbougv k,gvl guvarotgaorwgrlbkgv
iklbzvztgikszaujggVgtkslxgfvlgksxmbgbkgizkaagmragkqlgzsoua,gbkgvqvculgmra
nrxkszgvl gbkgcuuwgrbgpzkfgxzkqrlxgpvrlbgvl gzsabt;gvl gbmuzugraglk
ikszaugkpgorpugakgquvcgvl gakbbramgvagbmvbgqmrimgragivzzru gklg.tgzsou
vl g rairworlu;

ggggggggg“V gwzrfsfgovwr ufgnuibvzrgessfgwoviub,gmkzv
ggggggggggAsfrbszguhgor.zk;gargwzszrbgpzribsagkiuoor
ggggggggggVlxsosa,grlawuibvgxuluar,gikootzrvgesvuzrb;”

ggggg[“Qmulgmugragwouvau gbkgmvnugmrfauopgivzzru gbkgbmugprzabgfrouabklu,
gggggbmugmkszgragimkaulgpzkfgbmugvofvlvi;grpgmug.sbgzs.gbmugikzluzgkpgmra
gggggutu,gmragmkzkaikwugmvnrlxg.uulguhvfrlu ,gmugauucagbmugvr gkp
gggggavonuaj”---Ysnulvo,gnrjg576j]

mugamvoogkpbulgbmzkqgmrfauopgunulgrlbkguhiuaaua,grpgmugqroogbvcugft
v nriu;gkbmuzqraugbmugouvabg u.vsimgqroog uabzktgmrf,gvl gzul uzgmrf
bzks.ouakfugvl g ravxzuuv.ougrlgikfwvltjggBmugqkzabgesvorbtgrlgv
quoo-.zu gfvlgragknuz-pvabr rksaluaa,gvl gvlgk.orxvbrklgbkgvgiuzbvrl
wvzbrisovzgqvt;gvl grbgragwvzbrisovz,grpglkbgworv.ougvl gaswwoujggRbgragv
crl gkpgzuwzkvim,glkbgbkg.ugv.ou,gkzglkbgbkg vzu,gbkg kgqmvbgqugauugbmkau
v.ksbgsag k;goubgasimgvagbmuaugabkwgvbgmkfujggRbgragrlgunuztgfvl
sl.uikfrlx,g.sbgrlgvgako ruzgnrirksagvl grlbkouzv.ou:gqmk,gvagWmrokwiuful
avr ,gksxmbgbkgviisabkfgmrfauopgbkgunuztgnvzrubtgvl grluesvorbtgkpgorpuj

BmksxmgRgmvnug.uulg.zksxmbgsw,gvagfsimgvagqvagwkaar.ou,gbkgor.uzbtgvl 
rl uwul uliu,gtubgakgrbgragbmvb,gxzkqrlxgko ,gvl gmvnrlxg.tgrl rppuzuliu
fkzugaubbou gswklgiuzbvrlgpkzfag(ftgvxugraglkqgwvabgrlabzsibrkl,gvl gmva
muliupkzqvz glkbmrlxgbkg kg.sbgbkgcuuwgrbauopgswgvagquoogvagrbgivl),
isabkfgmvagvozuv t,guzugRgqvagvqvzu,gakgrfwzrlbu grbagimvzvibuzgrlgfugrl
iuzbvrlgbmrlxa,gbmvbgRgokkcgswklgrbgvagvgcrl gkpguhiuaagbkgouvnugbmuf
kpp;gvl ,gqrbmksbgvgpkziugswklgftauop,givllkbgaouuwgrlgbmug vtbrfu,glkz
uvbg.ubquulgfuvoa,glkzg.zuvcpvab,glkzgxkgbkg.u ,gqrbmksbgvgxzuvbgrlbuznvo
.ubqrhbguvbrlxgvl gaouuwrlx,--[XvabzkuakwmkxuvogZuposhjg jQj]--vagkp
bmzuugmkszagvpbuzgaswwuz;glkzgxubgimro zulg.sbg.upkzugRgaouuw,glkzgxub
bmufgabvl rlx;glkzgul szugftgkqlgaquvb;glkzgesulimgftgbmrzabgurbmuzgqrbm
wszugqvbuzgkzgwszugqrlu;glkzgcuuwgftgmuv goklxg.vzu,glkzgisbgftgmvrz
vpbuzg rlluz;gvl gRgamkso g.ugvagsluvatgqrbmksbgftgxoknuagvagqrbmksbgft
amrzb,gkzgqrbmksbgqvamrlxgqmulgRgzraugpzkfgbv.ougkzgksbgkpgftg.u ;gvl gR
ikso glkbgorugqrbmksbgvgivlkwtgvl giszbvrla,gvagrpgbmutgquzuguaaulbrvo
bmrlxajggRgikso g rlugqrbmksbgvgbv.ouiokbm,g.sbgqrbmksbgvgiouvlglvwcrl,
vpbuzgbmugXuzfvlgpvamrkl,gnuztgrlikffk rksaot;gRgpksogbmufgfkzugbmvlgbmu
XuzfvlagkzgRbvorvlag k,gvl gfvcug.sbgorbbougsaugurbmuzgkpgawkklgkzgpkzcj
Rgikfwovrlgbmvbgbmutg r glkbgcuuwgswgbmugpvamrkl,g.uxslgvpbuzgbmuguhvfwou
kpgcrlxa,gbkgimvlxugkszglvwcrlgvbgunuztgauznriu,gvagbmutg kgkszgwovbuj
Qugvzugbko gkpgbmvbgov.kzrksagako ruzgFvzrsagbmvb,gxzkqrlxgko ,gmug.uivfu
lriugrlgmrag zrlc,gvl glunuzg zvlcg.sbgksbgkpgvgwvzbrisovzgiswgkpgmragkql
R,grlgorcugfvlluz,gmvnugasppuzu gftauopgbkgpvlitgvgiuzbvrlgpkzfgkp
xovaaua,gvl glkbgqroorlxotgbkg zrlcgrlgikffklgxovaaua,glkgfkzugbmvlgpzkf
vgabzvlxugikffklgmvl :gvoogfubvogkppul agfugrlgikfwvzraklgkpgvgiouvzgvl 
bzvlawvzulbgfvbbuz:goubgftgutuagbvabu,gbkk,gviikz rlxgbkgbmurzgivwvirbtj
RgkqugaunuzvogkbmuzgasimglriubruagbkgisabkfjggLvbszugmvagvoak,gklgbmu
kbmuzgar u,gmuowu gfugbkgakfugkpgmuza:gvaglkbgbkg.ugv.ougbkgul szugfkzu
bmvlgbqkgpsoogfuvoagrlgklug vt,gqrbmksbgknuzimvzxrlxgftgabkfvim,glkzgv
bkbvogv.abrluliugpzkfgklugkpgbmkaugfuvoagqrbmksbgproorlxgftauopgqrbm
qrl ,g ztrlxgswgftgfksbm,gvl g soorlxgftgvwwubrbu;gbmugprl rlxgxzuvb
rliklnulruliugpzkfgknuzfsimgunulrlxgvrz;gpkzgkpgovbugtuvza,grlglrxmb
fvzimua,gqmrimgkpbulgmvwwulgbkg.ugvooglrxmbgoklx,gvpbuzgprnugkzgarhgmksza
ftgabkfvimg.uxrlagbkg.ugesuvat,gqrbmgvgnrkoulbgwvrlgrlgftgmuv ,gakgbmvbgR
voqvtagnkfrbg.upkzugbmug vtgivlg.zuvcjggQmulgbmugkbmuzagxkgbkg.zuvcpvab,
Rgxkgbkgaouuw;gvl gqmulgRgzrau,gRgvfgvag.zracgvl gxvtgvag.upkzujggRgmv 
voqvtag.uulgbko gbmvbgbmuglrxmbg uqglunuzgzrauag.sbgrlgbmug.uxrllrlxgkp
bmuglrxmb;g.sbgpkzgakfugtuvzagwvab,goklxgvl gpvfrorvzgrlbuzikszaugqrbm
vgokz ,gwkaauaau gqrbmgbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgbmuglrxmbg uqgragfkzugamvzwgvl 
 vlxuzksagv.ksbgbmug uiorlrlxgkpgbmugasl,gvlgmkszgkzgbqkg.upkzugrbgauba,
qmrimgmugivzupsootgvnkr a,gvl g uawrauagbmvbgkpgbmuglrxmb,gmugvofkab
rfwzuaau gswklgfu,glkbgakgfsimgmragzuvaklrlxgvagmraguhwuzruliuajggQmvb,
amvoogfuzug ks.bgvl grlesrztgabzrcugkszgrfvxrlvbrkl,gakgvagbkgimvlxugsa?
Asimgvagv.akosbuotgvl gklgvgas  ulgxrnugqvtgbkgbmuaugwzkwularkla,g zvq
bkbvog uabzsibrklgswklgbmufauonuajgRgvfgakzztgpkzgaunuzvogxulboufulgqmk,
bmzksxmgbmugpkootgkpgbmurzgwmtarirvla,gmvnugrlgbmurzgtksbmgvl gmuvobm
qmkootgamsbgbmufauonuagsw:grbgquzug.ubbuzgbkgul szugvgiksxm,gbmvl,g.t
 rasau,gpkzgunuzgbkgokaugbmugikffuziugkpgikffklgorpugrlgbmrlxagkpgak
xzuvbgsbrorbtjggFvorxlvlbgairuliu,gbkgrlbuz ribgsagbmugfkabgwouvavlb
mkszagkpgbmug vt!ggOubgsagcuuwgkszgwkaauaarklgbkgbmugovab;gpkzgbmugfkab
wvzb,gvgfvlgmvz ulagmrfauopg.tg.urlxgk.abrlvbu,gvl gikzzuibagmra
iklabrbsbrkl,gvagIvuavzg r gbmugpvoorlxgaricluaa,g.tg rlbgkpgiklbufwbj
Vgfvlgamkso gv  ribgmrfauopgbkgbmug.uabgzsoua,g.sbglkbgulaovnugmrfauopgbk
bmuf,guhiuwbgbkgasim,grpgbmuzug.ugvltgasim,gqmuzugk.orxvbrklgvl 
auznrbs ugvzugkpgwzkprbj

.kbmgcrlxagvl gwmrokakwmuzagxkgbkgabkko,gvl gov ruagbkk;gws.origornuagvzu
.ksl gbkgiuzufklt;gfrlu,gbmvbgragk.aiszugvl gwzrnvbu,gulyktagvooglvbszvo
 rawulavbrkl;gako ruzgvl gXvaiklgvzugvoakgesvorbruagvgorbbougas.yuibgbk
rl raizubrkl;gqmuzupkzugRgamvoogavtgkpgbmragvibgkpgzuorunrlxglvbszu,gbmvb
rbgrag uarzv.ougbkgzupuzgrbgbkgiuzbvrlgwzuaizr.u gvl glkibszlvogmksza,
vl gikfwuogklu’agauopgbkgbmrag.tgisabkf,gvagRgmvnug klu;g.sbglkbgbk
as.yuibgklu’agauop,gvagRgmvnug klugrlgftg uiorlrlxgtuvza,gbkgvgwvzbrisovz
iklnulruliugkpgwoviugvl gauvbgpkzgbmvbgwszwkau,gvl gfvcugrbgbzks.ouakfu
.tgoklxgarbbrlx;gvl gtub,grlgbmugpksouzgkppriua,gragrbglkbgrlgakfu
fuvaszuguhisav.ougbkgzuesrzugfkzugivzugvl giouvlorluaa?

gggggggggg“Lvbszbgmkfkgfsl sfgubguouxvlagvlrfvoguabj”

ggggg[“Fvlgrag.tglvbszugvgiouvlgvl g uorivbugizuvbszuj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g92j]

Kpgvoogbmugvibrklagkpglvbszu,gRgvfgbmugfkabgrfwvbrulbgkpg.urlx
rlbuzzswbu grlgbmvbjggRgmvnugauulgfvltgako ruzagbzks.ou gqrbmgbmu
slzsorluaagkpgbmurzg.uoorua;gqmuzuvagfrlugvl gRglunuzgpvrogkpgksz
wslibsvogvaarxlvbrkl,gqmrimgragvbgouvwrlxgksbgkpg.u ,grpgakfu
rl rawulav.oug.sarluaagkzgaricluaag kuaglkbgfkouabgsaj

Rgbmrlcgbmul,gvagRgavr g.upkzu,gbmvbgaricgfulgivllkbg.ubbuzgwoviu
bmufauonuagvltqmuzugrlgfkzugavpubt,gbmvlgrlgarbbrlxgabroogrlgbmvbgikszau
kpgorpugqmuzurlgbmutgmvnug.uulg.zu gvl gbzvrlu gsw;gimvlxu,g.ugrbgqmvbgrb
qroo,g rabufwuzagvl gwsbagklugksbjgg kgtksg.uorunugbmvbgimuablsbagivl
mszbgvgWuzrxkz rlgkzgvgOsiimuau,gkzgfrocgvl gimuuaugbmugfkslbvrlgwukwou?
Qugulykrlgbmufglkbgklotgvgluq,g.sbgvgiklbzvzt,gfubmk gkpgorpu;gvgimvlxu
bmvbgbmugmuvobmpsogivllkbgul szujggWzuaizr.ugqvbuzgbkgvg.zubklgkp
bmzuuaikzugvl gbul;gamsbgvgauvfvlgswgrlgvgabknu;gpkz.r gvg.vaesugpkkbfvl
bkgqvoc:gtksgqroog uwzrnugbmufgkpgfkbrkl,gvl grlgbmugul gkpgvrzgvl 
orxmb:

gggggggggggggg“Vlgnrnuzugbvlbrguab?
gggggggggggggggIkxrfszgvgasubragvlrfsfgasawul uzugzu.sa,
gggggggggggggggVbesu,gsbgnrnvfsa,gnrnuzug uarlrfsajggj
gggggggggggggggMkagaswuzuaaugzukz,gesr.sagubgawrzv.roragvuz
gggggggggggggggUbgosh,gesvgzuxrfsz,gzu  rbszgrwavgxzvnraj”

ggggg[“Ragorpugqkzbmgakgfsim?ggQugvzugikfwuoou gbkgqrbmmko gbmugfrl 
gggggpzkfgbmrlxagbkgqmrimgqugvzugviisabkfu ;gvl ,gbmvbgqugfvtgornu,gqu
gggggiuvaugbkgornugjggjggjggjgg kgRgikliurnugbmvbgbmutgabroogornu,gbk
gggggqmkfgbmugzuawrzv.ougvrz,gvl gbmugorxmbgrbauop,g.tgqmrimgqugvzu
gggggxknuzlu ,gragzul uzu gkwwzuaarnu?”
gggggg--Waus k-Xvoosa,gUiokxj,grjg155,g247j]

Rpgbmutg kglkgkbmuzgxkk ,gbmutg kgbmragvbgouvab,gbmvbgbmutgwzuwvzu
wvbrulbag.ubrfuagpkzg uvbm,g.tgorbbougvl gorbbougsl uzfrlrlxgvl gisbbrlx
kppgbmugsaugkpgorpuj

.kbmgquoogvl garic,gRgmvnugunuzgqroorlxotgasppuzu gftauopgbkgk.utgbmu
vwwubrbuagbmvbgwzuaau gswklgfujggRgxrnugxzuvbgzurlgbkgftg uarzuagvl 
wzkwularbrua;gRg kglkbgoknugbkgiszugklug rauvaug.tgvlkbmuz;gRgmvbu
zufu ruagbmvbgvzugfkzugbzks.ouakfugbmvlgbmug rauvaugrbauopjggBkg.u
as.yuibgbkgbmugikorigvl gas.yuibgbkgv.abvrlgpzkfguvbrlxgktabuzagvzugbqk
unroagrlabuv gkpgklu;gbmug rauvaugbkzfulbagsagklgbmugklugar u,gvl gbmu
zufu tgklgbmugkbmuzjggArliugqugvzugunuzgrlg vlxuzgkpgfrabvcrlx,goubgsa
zvbmuzgzslgbmugmvdvz gkpgvgfrabvcu,gvpbuzgqugmvnugmv gbmugwouvaszujggBmu
qkzo gwzkiuu agesrbugbmugkbmuzgqvt,gvl gbmrlcaglkbmrlxgwzkprbv.ougbmvbgra
lkbgwvrlpso;grbgmvagxzuvbgasawrirklgkpgpvirorbtjggFtgvwwubrbu,grlgnvzrksa
bmrlxa,gmvagkpgrbagkqlgviikz gmvwwrotgulksxmgviikffk vbu grbauopgbkgbmu
muvobmgkpgftgabkfvimjggZuoramgvl gwslxulitgrlgavsiuagquzugwouvavlbgbkgfu
qmulgtkslx;gftgabkfvimg raorcrlxgbmufgarliu,gftgbvabugrliklbrlulbot
pkookqu jggQrlugragmszbpsogbkgaricgwukwou,gvl g‘bragbmugprzabgbmrlxgbmvb
ftgfksbmgbmulgprl ag rabvabupso,gvl gqrbmgvlgrlnrlir.oug raorcuj
QmvbunuzgRgbvcugvxvrlabgftgorcrlxg kuagfugmvzf;gvl glkbmrlxgmszbagfugbmvb
Rguvbgqrbmgvwwubrbugvl g uorxmbjggRglunuzgzuiurnu gmvzfg.tgvltgvibrkl
bmvbgqvagnuztgwouvavlbgbkgfu;gvl gviikz rlxotgmvnugfv ugvoogfu rirlvo
ikliosarklagovzxuotgxrnugqvtgbkgftgwouvaszu;gvl gRgmvnu,gqmulgRgqva
tkslx,

ggggggggg“EsufgirzisfiszavlagmsigvbesugmsigavuwugIswr k
ggggggggggPsoxu.vbgizkirlcgawoul r sagrlgbslrij”

ggggg[“QmulgIswr ,gposbbuzrlxgzksl gfugmuzugvl gbmuzu,gamklugrlgmragzrim
gggggwszwougfvlbouj”--Ivbsoosa,gohnrjg133j]

xrnulgftauopgbmugzurlgvagoriulbrksaotgvl grliklar uzvbuotgbkgbmug uarzu
bmvbgqvagwzu kfrlvlbgrlgfu,gvagvltgkbmuzgqmkfakunuz:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Ubgfrorbvnrglklgarlugxokzrv;”

gggggggggg[“Vl gRgmvnugwovtu gbmugako ruzglkbgrlxokzrksaotj”
ggggggggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjgg26,g2j]

tubgfkzugrlgiklbrlsvbrklgvl gmko rlxgksb,gbmvlgrlgavoot:

ggggggggggggggg“Auhgfugnrhgfufrlrgasabrlsraaugnriuaj”

gggggggggg[“Rgivlgaivziuotgzufuf.uzgarhg.ksbagrlgkluglrxmb”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gVfkzj,grrrjg7,g26j]

‘Bragiuzbvrlotgvgfrapkzbslugvl gvgfrzviougvbgkliugbkgiklpuaagvbgqmvbgv
bul uzgvxugRgprzabgivfugsl uzgbmugas.yuibrklgkpgoknu:grbgqva,grl uu ,g.t
imvliu;gpkzgrbgqvagoklxg.upkzugbmugtuvzagkpgimkriugkzgclkqou xu;gRg kglkb
zufuf.uzgftauopgakgpvzg.vic;gvl gftgpkzbslugfvtgquoog.ugikswou gqrbmgbmvb
kpgEsvzbroov,gqmkgikso glkbgzufuf.uzgqmulgamugqvagvgfvr :

ggggggggg“Rl ugbzvxsa,giuouzuaesugwror,gfrzvl vesugfvbzr
gggggggggg.vz.vgfuvuj”

ggggg[“Bmuliugbmugk kszgkpgbmugvzf-wrba,gbmugwzuikirksagmvrz,gvl gbmu
ggggg.uvz gqmrimgvabklramu gftgfkbmuzj”--Fvzbrvo,ghrjg22,g7j]

Wmtarirvlagfk rptgbmurzgzsouagviikz rlxgbkgbmugnrkoulbgoklxrlxagbmvb
mvwwulgbkgaricgwuzakla,gkz rlvzrotgqrbmgxkk gasiiuaa;gbmragxzuvbg uarzu
ivllkbg.ugrfvxrlu gakgabzvlxugvl gnrirksa,g.sbgbmvbglvbszugfsabgmvnugv
mvl grlgrbjggVl gbmulgmkqguvatgvgbmrlxgragrbgbkgavbraptgbmugpvlit?ggRlgft
kwrlrkl;gbmragwvzbgqmkootgivzzruagrb,gvbgouvab,gv.knugvoogbmugzuabjggBmu
fkabgxzrunksagvl gkz rlvztgunroagvzugbmkaugbmvbgpvlitgokv agsagqrbm;gbmra
Awvlramgavtrlxgwouvauagfugrlgaunuzvogvawuiba:

gggggggggggggggggg“ upul vgfug rkag ugfuj”

ggggggggggggggg[“Xk g upul gfugpzkfgftauopj”]

RgvfgakzztgqmulgRgvfgaric,gbmvbgRgmvnuglkbgakfugoklxrlxgbmvbgfrxmbgxrnu
fugbmugwouvaszugkpgavbraptrlxgrb;gvoogbmugzsouagkpgwmtarigqkso gmvz otg.u
v.ougbkg rnuzbgfugpzkfgrbjggRg kgbmugavfugqmulgRgvfgquoo;gRgivlgauugnuzt
orbbougfkzugbkg.ugmkwu gkzgqramu gpkzjgg‘Bquzugwrbtgvgfvlgamkso g.ugak
quvcgvl govlxsramrlx,gvaglkbgbkgmvnugunulgqramrlxgoupbgbkgmrfj

Bmugvzbgkpgwmtarigraglkbgakgprhu ,gbmvbgqugluu g.ugqrbmksbgvsbmkzrbtgpkz
qmvbunuzgqug k;grbgimvlxuagviikz rlxgbkgiorfvbuagvl gfkkla,gviikz rlxgbk
Puzluogvl gbkgAivorxuzj--[WmtarirvlagbkgMulztgRRj]--Rpgtkszgwmtarirvl
 kuaglkbgbmrlcgrbgxkk gpkzgtksgbkgaouuw,gbkg zrlcgqrlu,gkzgbkguvbgasim
vl gasimgfuvba,glunuzgbzks.ougtkszauop;gRgqroogprl gtksgvlkbmuzgbmvb
amvooglkbg.ugkpgmragkwrlrkl;gbmug rnuzarbtgkpgfu rivogvzxsfulbagvl 
kwrlrklaguf.zviuagvoogakzbagvl gpkzfajggRgavqgvgfrauzv.ougaricgwuzakl
wvlbrlxgvl g.szlrlxgpkzgbmrzab,gbmvbgmugfrxmbg.ugiszu ,gqmkgqva
vpbuzqvz agovsxmu gvbgpkzgmragwvrlag.tgvlkbmuzgwmtarirvl,gqmkgikl uflu 
bmvbgv nriugvagwzuys rirvogbkgmrf:gmv gmuglkbgbkzfulbu gmrfauopgbkgxkk 
wszwkau?ggBmuzugovbuotg ru gkpgbmugabklugvgfvlgkpgbmvbgwzkpuaarkl,gqmk
mv gfv ugsaugkpguhbzufugv.abrluliugbkgiklbul gqrbmgmrag rauvau:gmra
puookq-wmtarirvlagavtgbmvb,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,gbmragv.abrluliugmv g zru 
mrfgswgvl g.vcu gbmugxzvnuogrlgmragcr lutaj

Rgmvnugk.auznu ,gbmvbg.kbmgrlgqksl agvl garicluaaua,gawuvcrlxg raikfwkaua
vl gmszbagfu,gvagfsimgvagvltgrzzuxsovzrbtgRgivlgikffrbjggFtgnkriugwvrla
vl gbrzuagfu,gpkzg‘bragoks gvl gpkziu ;gakgbmvbgqmulgRgmvnugxklugbkgv
qmrawuzgakfugxzuvbgwuzaklagv.ksbgvppvrzagkpgiklauesuliu,gbmutgmvnugkpbul
 uarzu gfugbkgfk uzvbugftgnkriuj

Bmragabkztgragqkzbmgvg rnuzarkljggAkfugklugrlgvgiuzbvrlgXzuucgaimkko
awuvcrlxgoks gvagRg k,gbmugfvabuzgkpgbmugiuzufklruagaulbgbkgmrfgbkgawuvc
akpbot:g“Buoogmrf,gbmul,gmugfsabgaul gfu,”gzuworu gbmugkbmuz,g“bmugbklu
mugqkso gmvnugfugawuvcgrlj”ggBkgqmrimgbmugkbmuzgzuworu ,g“Bmvbgmugamkso 
bvcugbmugbklugpzkfgbmuguvzagkpgmrfgbkgqmkfgmugawvcuj”ggRbgqvagquoogavr ,
rpgrbgragbkg.ugsl uzabkk :g“Awuvcgviikz rlxgbkgbmugvppvrzgtksgvzu
awuvcrlxgv.ksbgbkgtkszgvs rbkz,”gpkzgrpgrbgfuvl,g“‘bragaspprirulbgbmvbgmu
muvzgtks,gkzgxknuzlgtkszauopg.tgmrf,”gRg kglkbgprl grbgbkg.ugzuvakljggBmu
bklugvl gfkbrklgkpgftgnkriugivzzruagqrbmgrbgvgxzuvbg uvogkpgbmu
uhwzuaarklgvl garxlrprivbrklgkpgftgfuvlrlx,gvl g‘bragRgqmkgvfgbkgxknuzl
rb,gbkgfvcugftauopgsl uzabkk :gbmuzugragvgnkriugbkgrlabzsib,gvgnkriugbk
povbbuz,gvl gvgnkriugbkgzuwzumul jggRgqrooglkbgklotgbmvbgftgnkriugzuvim
mrf,g.sb,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmvbgrbgabzrcugvl gwruziugmrfjggQmulgRgzvbugft
nvoubgqrbmgamvzwgvl g.rbbuzgovlxsvxu,grbgqkso g.ugnuztgwzubbtgpkzgmrfgbk
avt;g“Wzvt,gfvabuz,gawuvcgokquz;gRgmuvzgtksgnuztgquoo”:

ggggggggggggggg“Uabgesvu vfgnkhgv gvs rbsfgviikffk vbv,
ggggggggggggggglklgfvxlrbs rlu,gau gwzkwzrubvbuj”

ggggg[“Bmuzugragvgiuzbvrlgnkriugviikffk vbu gbkgbmugmuvzrlx,glkbg.tgrba
gggggoks luaa,g.sbg.tgrbagwzkwzrubtj”--Esrlbrorvl,ghrjg3j]

Awuvcrlxgragmvopgmragqmkgawuvca,gvl gmvopgmragqmkgmuvza;gbmugovbbuz
ksxmbgbkgwzuwvzugmrfauopgbkgzuiurnugrb,gviikz rlxgbkgrbag.rva;gvagqrbm
bullra-wovtuza,gmugqmkgzuiurnuagbmug.voo,gamrpbagvl gwzuwvzua,gviikz rlx
vagmugauuagmrfgfknugqmkgabzrcuagbmugabzkcu,gvl gviikz rlxgbkgbmugabzkcu
rbauopj

Uhwuzruliugmva,gfkzuknuz,gbvsxmbgfugbmra,gbmvbgqugzsrlgkszauonuag.t
rfwvbruliujggUnroagmvnugbmurzgorpugvl gorfrba,gbmurzg rauvauagvl gbmurz
zuiknuztj

Bmugiklabrbsbrklgkpgfvov ruagragpkzfu g.tgbmugwvbbuzlgkpgbmugiklabrbsbrkl
kpgvlrfvoa;gbmutgmvnugbmurzgpkzbslugvl gbmurzg vtagorfrbu gpzkfgbmurz
.rzbm;gmugqmkgvbbufwbagrfwuzrksaotgbkgisbgbmufgamkzbg.tgpkziugrlgbmu
fr  ougkpgbmurzgikszau,goulxbmulagvl gfsobrworuagbmuf,gvl grliulaua
rlabuv gkpgvwwuvarlxgbmufjggRgvfgkpgIzvlbkz’agkwrlrkl,gbmvbgqugvzu
lurbmuzgk.abrlvbuotgvl g uvpotgbkgkwwkaugunroa,glkzgasiisf.gbkgbmufgpzkf
qvlbgkpgikszvxu;g.sbgbmvbgqugvzuglvbszvootgbkgxrnugqvtgbkgbmuf,gviikz rlx
bkgbmurzgikl rbrklgvl gkszgkqljggQugksxmbgbkgxzvlbgpzuugwvaavxugbk
 rauvaua;gRgprl gbmutgabvtgouaagqrbmgfu,gqmkgoubgbmufgvoklu;gvl gRgmvnu
okabgakfu,gzuwsbu gbmugfkabgbulvirksagvl gk.abrlvbu,g.tgbmurzgkqlg uivt,
qrbmksbgmuowgvl gqrbmksbgvzb,gvl giklbzvztgbkgrbagzsouajggOubgsagvgorbbou
wuzfrbgLvbszugbkgbvcugmuzgkqlgqvt;gamug.ubbuzgsl uzabvl agmuzgkqlgvppvrza
bmvlgqujgg.sbgasimgvlgklug ru gkpgrb;gvl gakgamvoogtks:grpglkbgkpgbmvb
 rauvau,gkpgvlkbmuzjggVl gmkqgfvltgmvnuglkbguaivwu g trlx,gqmkgmvnugmv 
bmzuugwmtarirvlagvbgbmurzgbvroa?ggUhvfwougragvgnvxsugvl gslrnuzavo
frzzkz,gvl gkpgnvzrksagzupouibrklajggRpgrbg.ugvg uorirksagfu rirlu,gbvcu
rb:g‘bragvoqvtagakgfsimgwzuaulbgxkk jggRgqrooglunuzgabricgvbgbmuglvfuglkz
bmugikoksz,grpgrbg.ugwouvavlbgvl gxzvbupsogbkgbmugwvovbu:gwouvaszugragklu
kpgbmugimrupuabgcrl agkpgwzkprbjggRgmvnugasppuzu giko a,gxksbt
 uposhrkla,gzuovhvbrkla,gwvowrbvbrklagkpgbmugmuvzb,gfuxzrfa,gvl gkbmuz
viir ulba,gbkgxzkqgko gvl g rugrlgbrfugvglvbszvog uvbmjggRgmvnugakgokab
bmufgqmulgRgqvagmvopgprbgbkgcuuwgbmuf:gbmutgvzugakkluzgwzunvrou gswklg.t
ikszbuatgbmvlgmspprlxjggQugfsabgwvbrulbotgasppuzgbmugovqagkpgksz
ikl rbrkl;gqugvzug.kzlgbkgxzkqgko ,gbkgxzkqgquvc,gvl gbkg.ugaric,grl
 uawrbugkpgvoogfu rirlujgg‘BragbmugprzabgouaaklgbmugFuhrivlagbuvimgbmurz
imro zul;gakgakklgvagunuzgbmutgvzug.kzlgbmutgbmsagavosbugbmuf:g“Bmksgvzb
ikfugrlbkgbmugqkzo ,gimro ,gbkgul szu:gul szu,gasppuz,gvl gavtglkbmrlxj”
g‘Bragrlysabriugbkgovfulbgbmvbgqmrimgmvag.upvooulgvltgklugqmrimgfvtg.upvoo
unuztgklu:

ggggg“Rl rxlvzu,gargesr grlgbkgrlresugwzkwzrkgiklabrbsbsfguabj”

ggggg[“Bmulg.ugvlxzt,gqmulgbmuzugragvltbmrlxgslysabotg uizuu gvxvrlab
gggggbmuugvokluj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g91j]

Auugvlgko gfvlgqmkg.uxagkpgXk gbmvbgmugqroogfvrlbvrlgmragmuvobmgnrxkzksa
vl gulbrzu;gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmvbgmugzuabkzugmrfgbkgtksbm:

gggggggggg“Absobu,gesr gmvuigpzsabzvgnkbragwsuzror.sagkwbva?”

gggggggggg[“Pkko!ggqmtg kgtksgnvrlotgpkzfgbmuaugwsuzrougqramua?”
ggggggggggg--Knr j,gBzrabj,g111jg8,gRRj]

ragrbglkbgpkoot?ggmragikl rbrklgraglkbgivwv.ougkpgrbjggBmugxksb,gbmu
abklu,gvl grl rxuabrklgvzugatfwbkfagkpgoklxgtuvza;gvagmuvb,gzvrla,gvl 
qrl agvzugkpgoklxgykszlutajggWovbkg kuaglkbg.uorunugbmvbgVUaisovwrsa
bzks.ou gmrfauopgbkgwzknr ug.tgzuxrfulgbkgwzkoklxgorpugrlgvgquvcgvl 
qvabu g.k t,gsauouaagbkgmragikslbztgvl gbkgmragwzkpuaarkl,gkzgbkg.uxub
muvobmpsogvl gzk.sabgimro zul;gvl g kuaglkbgbmrlcgbmragivzugasrbv.ougbk
bmug rnrlugysabriugvl gwzs uliu,gqmrimgragbkg rzuibgvoogbmrlxagbk
sbrorbtjggFtgxkk gpzrul ,gtkszg.sarluaagrag klu;glk.k tgivlgzuabkzugtks;
bmutgivl,gvbgbmugfkab,g.sbgwvbimgtksgsw,gvl gwzkwgtksgvgorbbou,gvl g.t
bmvbgfuvlagwzkoklxgtkszgfrauztgvlgmkszgkzgbqk:

gggggggggggggg“Lklgauisagrlabvlbufgiswrulagpsoirzugzsrlvf,
ggggggggggggggg rnuzaragiklbzvglrbrbszgk.rrir.sa;
ggggggggggggggg kluigiuzbvg rua,gkflrgikfwvxugakosbv,
gggggggggggggggRwasfgisfgzu.sagas.zsvbgvshrorsfj”

ggggg[“Orcugklugqmk,g uarzrlxgbkgabvtgvlgrfwul rlxgzsrl,gwoviuagnvzrksa
gggggwzkwagvxvrlabgrb,gbroo,grlgvgamkzbgbrfu,gbmugmksau,gbmugwzkwa,gvl 
gggggvoo,gxrnrlxgqvt,gpvoogbkxubmuzj”--Waus k-Xvoosa,grjg171j]

Qugfsabgouvzlgbkgasppuzgqmvbgqugivllkbgunv u;gkszgorpu,gorcugbmugmvzfklt
kpgbmugqkzo ,gragikfwkau gkpgiklbzvztgbmrlxa--kpg rnuzaugbklua,gaquubgvl 
mvzam,gamvzwgvl gpovb,gawzrxmbotgvl gakoufl:gbmugfsarirvlgqmkgamkso gklot
vppuibgakfugkpgbmuau,gqmvbgqkso gmug.ugv.ougbkg k?ggmugfsabgclkqgmkqgbk
fvcugsaugkpgbmufgvoo,gvl gbkgfrhgbmuf;gvl gakgqugamkso gfrlxougbmugxkk a
vl gunroagqmrimgvzugiklas.abvlbrvogqrbmgkszgorpu;gkszg.urlxgivllkb
as.arabgqrbmksbgbmragfrhbszu,gvl gbmugklugwvzbgraglkgouaagluiuaavztgbkgrb
bmvlgbmugkbmuzjggBkgvbbufwbgbkgikf.vbglvbszvogluiuaarbt,gragbkgzuwzuaulb
bmugpkootgkpgIbuarwmkl,gqmkgsl uzbkkcgbkgcricgqrbmgmragfsouj--[Wosbvzim,
MkqgbkgzuabzvrlgVlxuz,gijg8j]

Rgiklasobgorbbougv.ksbgbmugvobuzvbrklagRgpuuo:gpkzgbmuaug kibkzagbvcu
v nvlbvxu;gqmulgbmutgmvnugtksgvbgbmurzgfuzit,gbmutgaszpurbgtkszguvzagqrbm
bmurzgwzkxlkabria;gvl gpkzfuzotgaszwzrarlxgfu,gquvculu gqrbmgaricluaa,
rlyszrksaotgmvl ou gfugqrbmgbmurzg kxfvagvl gfvxrabuzrvogpkwwuzrua--klu
qmrougfulvirlxgfugqrbmgxzuvbgwvrla,gvl gvlkbmuzgqrbmgvwwzkvimrlxg uvbmj
Muzu.tgRgqvagrl uu gfknu gvl gamvcul,g.sbglkbgas. su glkzgykabou gpzkfgft
woviu;gvl gbmksxmgftgys xfulbgqvaglurbmuzgvobuzu glkzg rabzvibu ,gtubgrb
qvagvbgouvabg rabsz.u :g‘bragvoqvtagvxrbvbrklgvl gikf.vbj

Lkq,gRgsaugftgrfvxrlvbrklgvagxulbotgvagRgivl,gvl gqkso g raimvzxugrb,grp
Rgikso ,gkpgvoogbzks.ougvl giklbuab;gvgfvlgfsabgvaarab,gpovbbuz,gvl 
 uiurnugrb,grpgmugivl;gftgfrl gragprbgpkzgbmvbgkppriu;grbgluu aglk
vwwuvzvliuagbmzksxmksb:gikso grbgwuzasv ugvagrbgwzuvimua,grbgqkso 
asiiuaapsootgzuorunugfujggQroogtksgmvnugvlguhvfwou?ggRbgbuooagfu:g“bmvb
‘bragpkzgftgxkk gbkgmvnugbmugabklu:gbmvbgbmugabzsibszugkpgftgvxugfsab
lvbszvootgasppuzgakfug uivt,gvl grbgraglkqgbrfugrbgamkso g.uxrlgbk
 raykrlgvl gbkgiklpuaagvg.zuvim;g‘bragvgikffklgluiuaarbt,gvl gbmuzugra
lkbmrlxgrlgrbgurbmuzgfrzvisoksagkzgluq;gRgbmuzurlgwvtgqmvbgrag sugbkgko 
vxu,gvl gRgivllkbguhwuibgvg.ubbuzg.vzxvrl;gbmvbgakirubtgksxmbgbkgikfpkzb
fu,g.urlxgpvooulgrlbkgbmugfkabgikffklgrlprzfrbtgkpgftgvxu;gRgauu
unuztqmuzugfulgbkzfulbu gqrbmgbmugavfug rauvau,gvl gvfgmklkszu g.tgbmu
puookqamrw,gpkzvafsimgvagfulgkpgbmug.uabgesvorbtgvzugfkabgpzuesulbot
vpporibu gqrbmgrb:g‘bragvglk.ougvl g rxlrpru g rauvau:gbmvbgkpgasimgva
vzugabzsicgqrbmgrb,gpuqgmvnugrbgbkgvgouaag uxzuugkpgwvrl;gbmvbgbmuaugvzu
wsbgbkgbmugbzks.ougkpgvgabzribg rubgvl gbmug vrotgbvcrlxgkpglvsauksa
wkbrkla,gqmuzuvagRgkqugftg.ubbuzgabvbugwszuotgbkgftgxkk gpkzbslu;gpkz
akfugkz rlvztg.zkbmagkpguzrlxkgkzg.szab-qkzbgbmvbgRgmvnugbqriugkzgbmzriu
bvculgbkgk.orxugbmugov rua,gqmk,gqrbmgxzuvbuzgcrl luaagbmvlgftgwvrlgqva
amvzw,gqkso gluu agwzuaulbgfugmvopgkpgbmurza,gauufu gbkgfuguesvootguvat
bkgbvcugvl gpzsrbouaagrlgkwuzvbrkl,gbmugkbmuzagmvnugbkgwvtgvgbmksavl 
nkqagbkgVUaisovwrsa,gvl gvagfvltgizkqlagbkgbmurzgwmtarirvla,gpkzgbmu
nkr rlxgvgorbbougxzvnuo,gqmrimgRgkpbulg kg.tgbmugvr gkpglvbszu:gunulgbmu
 uikzsfgkpgftgikslbulvliugraglkbg rabsz.u grlgikfwvlt;gvl gRgivlgmko gft
qvbuzgbulgmksza,gvl gvagoklxgvagvltgfvlgrlgmuvobmjggBmugpuvzgkpgbmra
 rauvau,”gavtagftgfrl ,g“pkzfuzotgvppzrxmbu gbmuu,gqmulgrbgqvagslclkqlgbk
bmuu;gbmugizruagvl g uawvrzrlxgxzkvlagkpgbmkaugqmkgfvcugrbgqkzaug.tgbmurz
rfwvbruliu,g.uxkbgvgmkzzkzgrlgbmuujgg‘Bragvlgrlprzfrbtgbmvbgwslramuagbmu
fuf.uzag.tgqmrimgbmksgmvabgfkabgkppul u jggBmksgvzbgvgiklairulbrksa
puookq;”

ggggggggggggggg“Esvugnulrbgrl rxlugwkulv,g koul vgnulrb:”

ggggg[“Qugvzugulbrbou gbkgikfwovrlgkpgvgwslramfulbgbmvbgqugmvnuglkb
ggggg uauznu j”--Knr ,gMuzkr j,gnjg8j]

“iklar uzgbmragimvabraufulb:g‘bragnuztguvatgrlgikfwvzraklgkpgkbmuza,gvl 
rlporibu gqrbmgvgwvbuzlvogbul uzluaa:g kg.sbgk.auznugmkqgovbugrbgikfua;
rbgklotgaurduagklgvl grlikffk uagbmvbgwvzbgkpgbmtgorpugqmrimgra,gklugqvt
vl gvlkbmuz,gabuzrougvl gokab;gmvnrlx,gvagrbgquzug.tgikfwkarbrkl,gxrnul
brfugpkzgbmugoriuliugvl gwouvaszuagkpgbmtgtksbmjggBmugpuvzgvl gbmu
ikfwvaarklgbmvbgbmugwukwougmvnugkpgbmrag rauvaugauznugbmuugpkzgfvbbuzgkp
xokzt;gvgesvorbtgqmuzukpgrpgbmksg.vabgbmtgys xfulbgwszrpru ,gvl gbmvbgbmt
zuvaklgmvagakfuqmvbgiszu grb,gbmtgpzrul aglkbqrbmabvl rlx,g raiuzlgakfu
brlibszugrlgbmtgikfwouhrkljgg‘Bragvgwouvaszugbkgmuvzgrbgavr gkpgkluauop
qmvbgabzulxbmgkpgfrl ,gqmvbgwvbruliu!ggBmksgvzbgauulgbkgaquvbgqrbmgwvrl,
bkgbszlgwvougvl gzu ,gbkgbzuf.ou,gbkgnkfrbg.okk ,gbkgasppuzgabzvlxu
iklbzvibrklagvl giklnsoarkla,gvbgbrfuagbkgoubgxzuvbgbuvzag zkwgpzkfgbmrlu
utua,gbkgszrlugbmric,g.ovic,gvl g zuv psogqvbuz,gkzgbkgmvnugrbgaswwzuaau 
.tgakfugamvzwgvl gizvxxtgabklu,gbmvbgizsuootgwzricagvl gbuvzagbmugluicgkp
bmug.ov  uz,gqmroabgvoogbmugqmrougbmksgulbuzbvrluabgbmugikfwvltgqrbmgvl
kz rlvztgikslbulvliu;g zklrlxg.tgprbagqrbmgbmtgwukwou;gfvcrlxgklugrlgv
iklbrlsksag raikszau,glkqgvl gbmulgfvcrlxguhisaugpkzgbmtgwvrl,gvl 
zuwzuaulbrlxgbmtgasppuzrlxgouaagbmvlgrbgrajgg kabgbmksgivoogbkgfrl gbmu
fulgkpgwvabgbrfua,gqmkgakgxzuu rotgaksxmbg rauvauagbkgcuuwgbmurzgnrzbsu
rlg.zuvbmgvl guhuzirau?ggWsbgbmugivaugbmvbglvbszugaubagbmuugklgvl grfwuoa
bmuugbkgbmragxokzrksagaimkko,grlbkgqmrimgbmksgqkso abglunuzgmvnugulbuzu 
kpgbmtgkqlgpzuugqroojggRpgbmksgbuoouabgfugbmvbgrbgragvg vlxuzksagvl 
fkzbvog rauvau,gqmvbgkbmuzagvzuglkbgak?ggpkzg‘bragvgwmtarivogimuvbgbk
uhwuibgvltgbmvbgbmutgavtg kglkbgxkg rzuibgbkg uvbm:gqmvbgfvbbuzagrpgbmut
xkgbmrbmuzg.tgviir ulb,gkzgrpgbmutguvarotgaor ugvl gaorwgrlbkgbmugwvbm
bmvbgouv agsagbkgrb?gg.sbgbmksg kabglkbg rug.uivsaugbmksgvzbgaric;gbmks
 ruabg.uivsaugbmksgvzbgornrlx:g uvbmgcrooagbmuugqrbmksbgbmugmuowgkp
aricluaa:gvl garicluaagmvag upuzzu g uvbmgrlgakfu,gqmkgmvnugornu goklxuz
.tgzuvaklgbmvbgbmutgbmksxmbgbmufauonuagvoqvtag trlx;gbkgqmrimgfvtg.u
v  u ,gbmvbgvagrlgqksl a,gakgrlg rauvaua,gakfugvzugfu rirlvogvl 
qmkouakfujggBmugabklugragkpbulglkgouaagoklx-ornu gbmvlgtks;gqugauugful
qrbmgqmkfgrbgmvagiklbrlsu gpzkfgbmurzgrlpvlitgunulgbkgbmurzguhbzufugko 
vxu;gvl grpgbmutgmv glkbg.zkculgikfwvlt,grbgqkso gmvnug.uulgqrbmgbmuf
oklxuzgabroo;gtksgfkzugkpbulgcroogrbgbmvlgrbgcrooagtksjggVl gbmksxmgrb
amkso gwzuaulbgbkgtksgbmugrfvxugkpgvwwzkvimrlxg uvbm,gquzugrbglkbgvgxkk 
kppriugbkgvgfvlgkpgasimgvlgvxu,gbkgwsbgmrfgrlgfrl gkpgmragul ?ggVl ,
qmrimgragqkzau,gbmksgmvabglkgoklxuzgvltbmrlxgbmvbgamkso gfvcugbmuug uarzu
bkg.ugiszu jggQmubmuzgkzglk,gikffklgluiuaarbtgqroogakklgivoogbmuugvqvtj
 kg.sbgiklar uzgmkqgacropsootgvl gxulbotgamugwsbagbmuugksbgkpgikliuzl
qrbmgorpu,gvl gquvlagbmuugpzkfgbmugqkzo ;glkbgpkzirlxgbmuugqrbmgv
btzvllrivogas.yuibrkl,gorcugakgfvltgkbmuzgrlprzfrbruagqmrimgbmksgauuab
ko gfulgvpporibu gqrbmvo,gbmvbgmko gbmufgrlgiklbrlsvogbkzfulb,gvl gcuuw
bmufgrlgwuzwubsvogvl gslrlbuzfrbbu gquvcluaagvl gwvrla,g.sbg.tgqvzlrlxa
vl grlabzsibrklagvbgrlbuznvoa,grlbuzfrhrlxgoklxgwvsauagkpgzuwkau,gvagrb
quzugbkgxrnugbmuugkwwkzbslrbtgbkgfu rbvbugvl gzsfrlvbugswklgbmtgouaakl,
vbgbmtgkqlguvaugvl gouraszujggBkgxrnugbmuugfuvlagbkgys xugvzrxmb,gvl gbk
vaasfugbmugzuakosbrklgkpgvgfvlgkpgikszvxu,grbgwzuaulbagbkgbmuugbmugabvbu
kpgbmtgulbrzugikl rbrkl,g.kbmgrlgxkk gvl gunro;gvl gklugqmrougvgnuzt
imuuzpsogvl gvlkbmuzgvlgrlaswwkzbv.ougorpu,grlgklugvl gbmugavfug vtjggRp
bmksguf.zviuabglkbg uvbm,gvbgouvabgbmksgamvcuabgmvl agqrbmgrbgkliugv
fklbm;gqmuliugbmksgmvabgfkzugivsaugbkgmkwugbmvbgrbgqroogklug vtgaszwzrau
bmuugqrbmksbgfulviu;gvl gbmvbg.urlxgakgkpbulgikl sibu gbkgbmugqvbuz-ar u,
.sbgabroogbmrlcrlxgbmtauopgbkg.ugswklgbmugviisabkfu gbuzfa,gbmksgvl gbmt
iklpr uliugqroogvbgklugbrfugkzgvlkbmuzg.ugsluhwuibu otgqvpbu gknuzjggV
fvlgivllkbgzuvaklv.otgikfwovrlgkpg rauvauagbmvbgpvrzotg rnr ugbmugbrfu
qrbmgmuvobmj”

Rgvfgk.orxu gbkgPkzbslugpkzgmvnrlxgakgkpbulgvaavsobu gfugqrbmgbmugavfu
akzbgkpgquvwkla:gamugpkzfagvl gpvamrklagfug.tgsau,gmvz ulagvl gmv.rbsvbua
fu,gakgbmvbgRgivlgclkqgqrbmrlgvgorbbougpkzgmkqgfsimgRgamvoog.ugesrbjggPkz
qvlbgkpglvbszvogfufkzt,gRgfvcugklugkpgwvwuz;gvl gvagvltgluqgatfwbkf
mvwwulagrlgftg rauvau,gRgaubgrbg kql,gqmuliugrbgpvooagksbgbmvb,gmvnrlx
lkqgvofkabgwvaau gbmzksxmgvoogakzbagkpguhvfwoua,grpgvltbmrlxgabzrcrlx
bmzuvbulagfu,gbszlrlxgknuzgbmuaugorbbougokkauglkbua,gvagbmugAt.roorlu
ouvnua,gRglunuzgpvrogkpgprl rlxgfvbbuzgkpgiklakovbrklgpzkfgakfu
pvnkszv.ougwzkxlkabrigrlgftgwvabguhwuzruliujggIsabkfgvoakgfvcuagfugmkwu
.ubbuzgpkzgbmugbrfugbkgikfu;gpkz,gbmugikl sibgkpgbmragiouvzrlxgksbgmvnrlx
akgoklxgiklbrlsu ,g‘bragbkg.ug.uorunu gbmvbglvbszugqrooglkbgvobuzgmuz
ikszau,gvl gbmvbglkgkbmuzgqkzaugviir ulbgqroogmvwwulgbmvlgqmvbgRgvozuv t
puuojggVl g.uar ua,gbmugikl rbrklgkpgbmrag rauvaugraglkbgslasrbv.ougbkgft
wzkfwbgvl gas  ulgikfwouhrkl:gqmulgrbgvaavsobagfugxulbot,gRgvfgvpzvr ,
pkzg‘bragbmulgpkzgvgxzuvbgqmrou;g.sbgrbgmva,glvbszvoot,g.zracgvl 
nrxkzksaguhiuaaua;grbgiovqagfugbkgwszwkaugpkzgvg vtgkzgbqkjggFtgcr luta
muo gksbgvlgvxugqrbmksbgvobuzvbrkl;gvl gRgmvnugvofkabglkqgornu gvlkbmuz,
arliugbmutgimvlxu gbmurzgabvbu;gunroagmvnugbmurzgwuzrk a,gvagquoogva
.uluprba:gwuzv nulbszu,gbmugrlprzfrbtg zvqagbkqvz agvlgul jggVxugquvcula
bmugmuvbgkpgftgabkfvim,gvl ,grbag rxuabrklg.urlxgouaagwuzpuib,gaul agbmra
izs ugfvbbuzgbkgftgcr luta;gqmt,gvbgvgiuzbvrlgzunkosbrkl,gfvtglkbgbmu
muvbgkpgftgcr lutag.ugvoakgv.vbu ,gakgbmvbgbmutgivlglkgfkzugwubzrptgft
wmouxf,gvl glvbszugprl gksbgakfugkbmuzgqvtgkpgwszxvbrkljggTuvzagmvnu
unr ulbotgmuowu gfugbkg zvrlgiuzbvrlgzmusfa;gvl gqmtglkbgbmuauguhizufulba
qmrimgpszlramgfvbbuzgpkzgxzvnuo?gg.sbgragbmuzugvltbmrlxg uorxmbpsogrl
ikfwvzraklgkpgbmragas  ulgimvlxu,gqmulgpzkfgvlguhiuaarnugwvrl,gRgikfu,g.t
bmugnkr rlxgkpgvgabklu,gbkgzuiknuz,gvag.tgvgpovamgkpgorxmblrlx,gbmu
.uvsbrpsogorxmbgkpgmuvobm,gakgpzuugvl gpsoo,gvagrbgmvwwulagrlgkszgas  ul
vl gamvzwuabgikoria?ggRagbmuzugvltbmrlxgrlgbmugwvrlgasppuzu ,gbmvbgklu
ivlgikslbuzwkraugbkgbmugwouvaszugkpgakgas  ulgvlgvful fulb?ggKm,gmkqgfsim
 kuagmuvobmgauufgbmugfkzugwouvavlbgbkgfu,gvpbuzgvgaricluaagakgluvzgvl gak
iklbrxsksa,gbmvbgRgivlg rabrlxsramgbmufgrlgbmugwzuauliugkpgklugvlkbmuz,
rlgbmurzgxzuvbuabgamkq;gqmulgbmutgvwwuvzgrlgufsovbrkl,gvagrpgbkgfvcugmuv 
vxvrlabgvl g rawsbugrbgqrbmgklugvlkbmuz!ggVagbmugAbkriagavtgbmvbgnriua
vzugwzkprbv.otgrlbzk siu gbkgxrnugnvosugbkgvl gbkgaubgkppgnrzbsu,gqugivl,
qrbmg.ubbuzgzuvaklgvl gouaagbufuzrbtgkpgiklyuibszu,gavtgbmvbglvbszugmva
xrnulgsagwvrlgpkzgbmugmklkszgvl gauznriugkpgwouvaszugvl grl kouliujggQmul
Akizvbua,gvpbuzgmragpubbuzagquzugclkicu gkpp,gpuobgbmugwouvaszugkpgbmvb
rbimrlxgqmrimgbmugqurxmbgkpgbmufgmv givsau grlgmragouxa,gmugzuykriu gbk
iklar uzgbmugabzribgvoorvliug.ubqrhbgwvrlgvl gwouvaszu;gmkqgbmutgvzu
orlcu gbkxubmuzg.tgvgluiuaavztgiklluibrkl,gakgbmvbg.tgbszlagbmutgpkookq
vl gfsbsvootg.uxubgklugvlkbmuz;gvl gizru gksbgbkgxkk gVUakw,gbmvbgmu
ksxmbgksbgkpgbmragiklar uzvbrklgbkgmvnugbvculgfvbbuzgpkzgvgprlugpv.ouj

BmugqkzabgbmvbgRgauugrlgkbmuzg rauvauagra,gbmvbgbmutgvzuglkbgakgxzrunksa
rlgbmurzguppuibgvagbmutgvzugrlgbmurzgraasu:gvgfvlgragvgqmkougtuvzgrl
zuiknuzrlx,gvl gvoogbmugqmrougpsoogkpgquvcluaagvl gpuvzjggBmuzugragak
fsimgmvdvz ,gvl gakgfvltgabuwagbkgvzzrnugvbgavpubt,gbmvbgbmuzugraglkgul 
kl’bg.upkzugbmutgmvnugslfsppou gtksgkpgvgcuzimrup,gvl gbmulgkpgvgivw,
.upkzugbmutgvookqgtksgbkgqvocgv.zkv gvl gbvcugbmugvrz,gbkg zrlcgqrlu,gbk
orugqrbmgtkszgqrpu,gbkguvbgfuokla,g‘bragk  agtksgzuovwaugrlbkgakfugluq
 rabufwuzjggBmugabklugmvagbmragwzrnrouxu,gbmvbgrbgivzzruagrbauopgiouvl
kpp:gqmuzuvagbmugkbmuzgfvov ruagvoqvtagouvnug.umrl gbmufgakfugrfwzuaarkl
vl gvobuzvbrklgbmvbgzul uzgbmug.k tgas.yuibgbkgvgluqg rauvau,gvl goul gv
mvl gbkgklugvlkbmuzjggBmkaugvzuguhisav.ougbmvbgiklbulbgbmufauonuagqrbm
wkaauaarlxgsa,gqrbmksbguhbul rlxgpvzbmuzgvl grlbzk sirlxgbmurzgpkookquza;
.sbgikszbuksagvl gcrl gvzugbmkaugqmkaugwvaavxug.zrlxagsagvltgwzkprbv.ou
raasujggArliugRgmvnug.uulgbzks.ou gqrbmgbmugabklu,gRgprl gftauopgpzuu 
pzkfgvoogkbmuzgviir ulba,gfsimgfkzu,gfubmrlca,gbmvlgRgqvag.upkzu,gvl 
mvnuglunuzgmv gvltgpunuzgarliu;gRgvzxsugbmvbgbmuguhbzufugvl gpzuesulb
nkfrbrlxagbmvbgRgvfgas.yuibgbkgwszxugfu:gvl ,gklgbmugkbmuzgmvl ,gft
 rabvabuagpkzgbmragvl gbmvb,gvl gbmugabzvlxugpvabagRgvfgpkziu gbkgcuuw,
 rxuabgftgwuiivlbgmsfksza,gvl glvbszu,gqrbmgbmkaugabklua,gnkr agqmvbunuz
bmuzugragrlgfugaswuzposksagvl gmszbpsojggOubgbmufglunuzgbuoogfugbmvbgrb
ragvgfu rirlugbkkg uvzg.ksxmb:gpkzgqmvbgvnvrogakgfvltgabrlcrlxg zvsxmba,
akgfvltgivsabria,grlirarkla,gaquvba,gaubkla,g ruba,gvl gakgfvltgkbmuz
fubmk agkpgiszu,gqmrimgkpbul,g.tgzuvaklgqugvzuglkbgv.ougbkgsl uzxkgbmurz
nrkouliugvl grfwkzbslrbt,g.zrlxgsagbkgkszgxzvnua?ggAkgbmvbgqmulgRgmvnu
bmugabklu,gRgokkcgswklgrbgvagwmtari;gqmulgpzuugpzkfgrb,gvagvlgv.akosbu
 uornuzvliuj

Vl gmuzugragvlkbmuzgwvzbrisovzg.uluprbgkpgftg rauvau;gqmrimgra,gbmvbgrb
vofkabgwovtagrbagxvfug.tgrbauop,gvl goubag‘fugwovtgfrlu,grpgRgmvnugklot
ikszvxugbkg kgrb;gpkz,grlgrbagxzuvbuabgpszt,gRgmvnugul szu grbgbulgmksza
bkxubmuzgklgmkzau.vicjgg kg.sbgul szugklot;gtksgluu glkgkbmuzgzuxrful
wovt,gzsl,g rlu,g kgbmragvl gb’kbmuz,grpgtksgivl;gtkszg u.vsimgqroog k
tksgfkzugxkk gbmvlgmvzf;gavtgvagfsimgbkgklugbmvbgmvagbmugwkh,gbmugxksb,
kzgmuzlrv!ggBmugkbmuzg rauvauagmvnugfkzugslrnuzavogk.orxvbrkla;gzvicgksz
vibrklagvpbuzgvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgfvlluz,g rabsz.gkszgqmkougkz uz,gvl gbk
bmurzgiklar uzvbrklgulxvxugbmugqmkougabvbugkpgorpu:gbmragklotgwrlimuagbmu
acrl;grbgouvnuagbmugsl uzabvl rlxgvl gbmugqroogqmkootgvbgkszgkql
 rawkavo,gvl gbmugbklxsu,gbmugmvl a,gvl gbmugpuub;grbgzvbmuzgvqvculagbmvl
abswupruagtksjggBmugaksogragabzsicgqrbmgbmugvz kszgkpgvgpunuz,
knuzqmuofu gqrbmgvlguwrouwat,gvl g rawoviu g.tgvgamvzwgfuxzrf,gvl ,grl
amkzb,gvabksl u g.tgvoogbmug rauvauagbmvbgmszbgbmugqmkougfvaagvl gbmu
fkabglk.ougwvzba;gbmraglunuzgfu  ouagqrbmgbmugakso;grpgvltbmrlxgxkua
vfraagqrbmgmuz,g‘bragmuzgkqlgpvsob;gamug.ubzvta,g rafkslba,gvl gv.vl kla
muzauopjggBmuzugvzuglklug.sbgpkkoagqmkgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugwuzasv u 
bmvbgbmragmvz gvl gfvaarnug.k tgqmrimgrag.vcu grlgkszgcr lutagragbkg.u
 raakonu g.tg zrlca;gqmuzupkzu,gqmulgrbgragkliugabrzzu ,gbmuzugraglkbmrlx
bkg.ug klug.sbgbkgxrnugrbgwvaavxu;gvl ,gpkzgbmvbgfvbbuz,grbgqroogrbauop
fvcugkluj

Rgfkzuknuzgk.auznugbmragwvzbrisovzgiklnulruliugrlgrb,gbmvbgrbgragv
 rauvaugqmuzurlgqugmvnugorbbougbkgxsuaagvb:gqugvzug rawulau gpzkfgbmu
bzks.ougrlbkgqmrimgkbmuzg rauvauagbmzkqgsag.tgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurz
ivsaua,gikl rbrkla,gvl gwzkxzuaa;gvgbzks.ougbmvbgragrlprlrbuotgwvrlpso:
qugmvnuglkgluu gkpgiklasobvbrklagvl g kibkzvogrlbuzwzubvbrkla;gbmugaulaua
quoogulksxmgrlpkzfgsag.kbmgqmvbgrbgragvl gqmuzugrbgraj

.tgasimorcugvzxsfulba,gquvcgvl gabzklx,gvagIriuzkgqrbmgbmug rauvaugkpgmra
ko gvxu,gRgbztgbkgzkicgvaouuwgvl gvfsaugftgrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gbkg zuaagrba
qksl ajggRpgRgprl gbmufgqkzaugbkfkzzkq,gRgqroogwzknr ugluqgabzvbvxufaj
Bmvbgbmragragbzsu:gRgvfgikfugbkgbmvbgwvaagkpgovbu,gbmvbgbmugouvabgfkbrkl
pkziuagwszug.okk gksbgkpgftgcr luta:gqmvbgkpgbmvb?ggRgfknugv.ksb,
lunuzbmuouaa,gvag.upkzu,gvl gzr ugvpbuzgftgmksl agqrbmgvgysnulrougvl 
rlakoulbgvz ksz;gvl gmko gbmvbgRgmvnugnuztgxkk gavbrapvibrklgpkzgvl
viir ulbgkpgbmvbgrfwkzbvliu,gqmulgrbgikabagfuglkgfkzug.sbgvg soo
muvnrluaagvl gsluvarluaagrlgbmvbgwvzb;g‘bragakfugxzuvbgabklugbmvbgqvabua
vl giklasfuagbmugas.abvliugkpgftgcr lutagvl gftgorpu,gqmrimgRg.tgorbbou
vl gorbbougunvisvbu,glkbgqrbmksbgakfuglvbszvogwouvaszu,gvagvlguhizufulb
muliupkzqvz gaswuzposksagvl gbzks.ouakfujggLkqgrpgRgpuuogvltbmrlx
abrzzrlx,g kglkbgpvlitgbmvbgRgbzks.ougftauopgbkgiklasobgftgwsoaugkzgft
szrlu,gbmuzu.tgbkgwsbgftauopgswklgakfugvllktrlxgwzunulbrkl;gRgamvoogakkl
ulksxmgpuuogbmugwvrl,gqrbmksbgfvcrlxgrbgfkzugvl goklxuzg.tgbmug rauvaugkp
puvzjggMugqmkgpuvzagmugamvoogasppuz,gvozuv tgasppuzagqmvbgmugpuvzajggBk
qmrimgfvtg.ugv  u gbmvbgbmug ks.bagvl grxlkzvliugkpgbmkaugqmkgbvcugswkl
bmufgbkguhwksl gbmug uarxlagkpglvbszugvl gmuzgrlbuzlvogwzkxzuaarkla,gvl 
bmugfvltgpvoaugwzkxlkabriagkpgbmurzgvzb,gksxmbgbkgxrnugsagbkgsl uzabvl 
bmvbgmuzgqvtagvzugrlaizsbv.ougvl gsbbuzotgslclkql;gbmuzugragxzuvb
sliuzbvrlbt,gnvzrubt,gvl gk.aiszrbtgrlgqmvbgamugurbmuzgwzkfrauagkz
bmzuvbulajggKo gvxuguhiuwbu ,gqmrimgragvlgrl s.rbv.ougarxlgkpgbmu
vwwzkvimgkpg uvbm,grlgvoogkbmuzgviir ulbagRgauugpuqgarxlagkpgbmugpsbszu,
qmuzuklgqugfvtgxzksl gkszg rnrlvbrkljggRgklotgys xugkpgftauopg.tgvibsvo
aulavbrkl,glkbg.tgzuvaklrlx:gbkgqmvbgul ,garliugRgvfgzuakonu gbkg.zrlx
lkbmrlxgbkgrbg.sbguhwuibvbrklgvl gwvbruliu?ggQroogtksgclkqgmkqgfsimgRgxub
.tgbmra?gk.auznugbmkaugqmkg kgkbmuzqrau,gvl gqmkgzuotgswklgakgfvlt
 rnuzaugwuzasvarklagvl gikslauoa;gmkqgkpbulgbmugrfvxrlvbrklgwzuaauagswkl
bmufgqrbmksbgvltg.k rotgwvrljggRgmvnugfvltgbrfuagvfsau gftauop,g.urlx
quoogvl grlgavpubt,gvl gesrbugpzuugpzkfgbmuaug vlxuzksagvbbvicagrl
ikffslrivbrlxgbmufgbkgbmugwmtarirvlagvagbmulg.uxrllrlxgbkg raiknuz
bmufauonuagrlgfu;gRgsl uzqulbgbmug uizuugkpgbmurzg zuv psogikliosarkla,
.urlxgvoogbmugqmrougesrbugvbgftguvau,gvl gakgfsimgbmugfkzugk.orxu gbkgbmu
pvnkszgkpgXk gvl g.ubbuzgavbrapru gkpgbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmragvzbj

Bmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvbgksxmbgakgfsimgbkg.ugzuikfful u gbkgtksbmgva
vibrnrbtgvl gnrxrovliugkszgorpugraglkbmrlxg.sbgfknufulbjggRg.uabrzgftauop
qrbmgxzuvbg rpprisobt,gvl gvfgaokqgrlgunuztbmrlx,gqmubmuzgrlgzrarlx,
xkrlxgbkg.u ,gkzguvbrlx:gaunulgkpgbmugiokicgrlgbmugfkzlrlxgraguvzotgpkz
fu,gvl gqmuzugRgzsou,gRglunuzg rlug.upkzuguounul,glkzgaswgbroogvpbuzgarhj
Rgpkzfuzotgvbbzr.sbu gbmugivsaugkpgbmugpunuzagvl gkbmuzg rauvauagRgpuoo
rlbkgbkgbmugmuvnrluaagbmvbgoklxgaouuwrlxgmv g.zksxmbgswklgfu,gvl gmvnu
unuzgzuwulbu gxkrlxgbkgaouuwgvxvrlgrlgbmugfkzlrlxjggWovbkgragfkzugvlxzt
vbguhiuaagkpgaouuwrlxgbmvlgvbguhiuaagkpg zrlcrlxjggRgoknugbkgorugmvz gvl 
voklu,gunulgqrbmksbgftgqrpu,gvagcrlxag k;gwzubbtgquoogiknuzu gqrbm
iokbmuajggBmutglunuzgqvzfgftg.u ,g.sbgarliugRgmvnugxzkqlgko gbmutgxrnugfu
vbgluu giokbmagbkgovtgbkgftgpuubgvl gabkfvimjggBmutgpksl gpvsobgqrbmgbmu
xzuvbgAirwrkgbmvbgmugqvagvgxzuvbgaouuwuz;glkb,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gpkzgvlt
kbmuzgzuvaklgbmvlgbmvbgfulgquzug rawouvau gbmvbgmugvoklugamkso gmvnu
lkbmrlxgrlgmrfgbkg.ugpksl gpvsobgqrbmjggRpgRgvfgvltbmrlxgpvabr rksagrlgft
qvtgkpgornrlxg‘bragzvbmuzgrlgftgotrlxgbmvlgvltbmrlxguoau;g.sbgxuluzvoot
Rgxrnugqvtgvl gviikffk vbugftauopgvagquoogvagvltgklugbkgluiuaarbtj
Aouuwrlxgmvagbvculgswgvgxzuvbgwvzbgkpgftgorpu,gvl gRgtubgiklbrlsu,gvbgbmu
vxugRglkqgvf,gbkgaouuwgurxmbgkzglrlugmkszagvbgklug.zuvbmjggRgquvlgftauop
qrbmgsbrorbtgpzkfgbmragwzkluluaagbkgaokbm,gvl gvfgunr ulbotgbmug.ubbuz
pkzgakg krlxjggRgprl gbmugimvlxugvgorbbougmvz grl uu ,g.sbgrlgbmzuug vta
‘bragknuz;gvl gRgauug.sbgpuqgqmkgornugqrbmgouaagaouuw,gqmulgluu 
zuesrzua,gvl gqmkgfkzugiklabvlbotguhuziraugbmufauonua,gkzgbkgqmkfgoklx
ykszlutagvzugouaagbzks.ouakfujggFtg.k tgragivwv.ougkpgvgprzf,g.sbglkbgkp
vgnrkoulbgkzgas  ulgvxrbvbrkljggRguaivwugkpgovbugpzkfgnrkoulbguhuziraua,
vl gasimgvagfvcugfugaquvb:gftgorf.agxzkqgquvztg.upkzugbmutgvzugqvzfj
Rgivlgabvl gvgqmkoug vtgbkxubmuz,gvl gvfglunuzgquvztgkpgqvocrlx;g.sbgpzkf
ftgtksbmgRgmvnugunuzgwzupuzzu gbkgzr ugswklgwvnu gzkv a;gklgpkkb,gRgxub
swgbkgbmugmvslimuagrlg rzb,gvl gorbbougpuookqagvagRgvfgvzugas.yuibgrlgbmu
abzuubagbkg.uguo.kqu gvl gykabou gpkzgqvlbgkpgwzuauliu;gRgmvnugunuzgoknu 
bkgzuwkaugftauop,gqmubmuzgarbbrlxgkzgotrlx,gqrbmgftgmuuoagvagmrxmgkz
mrxmuzgbmvlgftgauvbj

Bmuzugraglkgwzkpuaarklgvagwouvavlbgvagbmugfrorbvzt,gvgwzkpuaarklg.kbm
lk.ougrlgrbaguhuisbrklg(pkzgnvokszgragbmugabksbuab,gwzks uab,gvl gfkab
xuluzksagkpgvoognrzbsua),gvl glk.ougrlgrbagivsau:gbmuzugraglkgsbrorbt
urbmuzgfkzugslrnuzavogkzgfkzugysabgbmvlgbmugwzkbuibrklgkpgbmugwuviugvl 
xzuvbluaagkpgklu’agikslbztjggBmugikfwvltgkpgakgfvltglk.ou,gtkslx,gvl 
vibrnugfulg uorxmbagtks;gbmugkz rlvztgarxmbgkpgakgfvltgbzvxrigawuibvioua;
bmugpzuu kfgkpgbmugiklnuzavbrkl,gqrbmksbgvzb;gvgfvaisorlugvl 
sliuzufklrksagqvtgkpgornrlx,gwouvaugtks;gbmugnvzrubtgkpgvgbmksavl 
aunuzvogvibrkla;gbmugulikszvxrlxgmvzfkltgkpgfvzbrvogfsarigbmvbgzvnramua
vl grlpovfuag.kbmgtkszguvzagvl gaksoa;gbmugmklkszgkpgbmragkiiswvbrkl,
lvt,gunulgrbagmvz amrwagvl g rpprisobrua,gqmrimgWovbkgmko agakgorxmbgbmvb
rlgmragZuws.origmugfvcuagqkfulgvl gimro zulgamvzugrlgbmuf,gvzug uorxmbpso
bkgtksjggTksgwsbgtkszauopgnkoslbvzrotgswklgwvzbrisovzguhwokrbagvl 
mvdvz a,gviikz rlxgvagtksgys xugkpgbmurzgosabzugvl grfwkzbvliu;gvl ,gv
nkoslbuuz,gprl gunulgorpugrbauopguhisav.otgufwoktu :

ggggggggggggggg“Wsoimzsfesugfkzrgasiiszzrbgrlgvzfraj”

gggggggggg[“‘Bragprlugbkg rugaqkz grlgmvl j”g(“Vl gmugzufuf.uzagbmvbgrb
ggggggggggragmklkszv.ougbkg rugrlgvzfaj”)--VUlur ,grrjg317j]


Bkgpuvzgikffklg vlxuzagbmvbgikliuzlgakgxzuvbgvgfsobrbs ugkpgful;glkbgbk
 vzugbkg kgqmvbgakgfvltgakzbagkpgaksoa,gqmvbgvgqmkougwukwoug vzu,gragpkz
vgmuvzbgbmvbgragwkkzgvl gfuvlg.utkl gvoogfuvaszu:gikfwvltgulikszvxuagunul
imro zuljggRpgkbmuzaguhiuogtksgrlgclkqou xu,grlgxzviupsoluaa,grl
abzulxbm,gkzgpkzbslu,gtksgmvnugvobuzlvbrnugzuaksziuagvbgtkszg rawkavo;
.sbgbkgxrnugwoviugbkgbmufgrlgabv.rorbtgkpgfrl ,gtksgivlg.ovfuglkgklugpkz
bmvbg.sbgtkszauopjg uvbmgragfkzugv.yuib,gfkzugovlxsramrlxgvl 
bzks.ouakfu,grlg.u gbmvlgrlgvgprxmb:gpunuzagvl givbvzzmagvagwvrlpsogvl 
fkzbvogvagvgfsacub-amkbjggQmkunuzgmvagpkzbrpru gmrfauopgnvorvlbotgbkg.uvz
bmugviir ulbagkpgikffklgorpugluu glkbgzvraugmragikszvxugbkg.ugvgako ruz:

gggggggggggggggggggg“Nrnuzu,gfrgOsiror,gfrorbvzuguabj”

gggggggggg[“Bkgornu,gftgOsirorsa,grag(bkgfvcugqvz)gbkg.ugvgako ruzj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g96j]

Rg kglkbgzufuf.uzgbmvbgRgunuzgmv gbmugrbim,gvl gtubgaizvbimrlxgragklugkp
lvbszu’agaquubuabgxzvbrprivbrkla,gvl gakgfsimgvbgmvl ;g.sbgzuwulbvliu
pkookqagbkkgluvzjggRgsaugrbgfkabgrlgftguvza,gqmrimgvzugvbgrlbuznvoagvwb
bkgrbimj

Rgivfugrlbkgbmugqkzo gqrbmgvoogftgaulauagulbrzu,gunulgbkgwuzpuibrkljggFt
abkfvimgragikffk rksaotgxkk ,gvagvoakgragftgmuv gvl gftg.zuvbm;gvl ,gpkz
bmugfkabgwvzb,gswmko gbmufauonuagakgrlgbmugmurxmbgkpgpunuzajggRgmvnu
wvaau gbmugvxugbkgqmrimgakfuglvbrkla,glkbgqrbmksbgzuvakl,gmvnugwzuaizr.u 
akgysabgvgbuzfgkpgorpugbmvbgbmutgqkso glkbgasppuzgfulgbkguhiuu grb;gvl 
tubgRgmvnugakfugrlbuzfraarkla,gbmksxmgamkzbgvl grliklabvlb,gakgiouvlgvl 
aksl gvagbkg.ugorbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgbmugmuvobmgvl gwouvavlbluaagkpgft
tksbmjggRg kglkbgawuvcgkpgnrxkszgvl gawzrxmborluaa;g‘braglkbgzuvaklgbmut
amkso gpkookqgfug.utkl gbmurzgorfrba:

ggggggggggggggg“Lklgmkigvfworsaguabgorfrlra,gvsbgvesvu
gggggggggggggggIkuouabra,gwvbrulagovbsaj”

ggggg[“Rgvfglkgoklxuzgv.ougbkgabvl gqvrbrlxgvbgvg kkzgrlgbmugzvrlj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg10,g9j]

Ftgpviugvl gutuagwzuaulbotg raiknuzgftgikl rbrkl;gvoogftgvobuzvbrkla
.uxrlgbmuzu,gvl gvwwuvzgakfuqmvbgqkzaugbmvlgbmutgzuvootgvzu;gftgpzrul a
kpbulgwrbtgfug.upkzugRgpuuogbmugivsaugrlgftauopjggFtgokkcrlx-xovaag kua
lkbgpzrxmbulgfu;gpkzgunulgrlgftgtksbmgrbgmvag.upvooulgfugfkzugbmvlgkliu
bkgmvnugvgaiszntgikfwouhrklgvl gkpgroogvsxszt,gqrbmksbgvltgxzuvb
iklauesuliu,gakgbmvbgbmugwmtarirvla,glkbgprl rlxgvltgivsaugqrbmrl
vlaquzv.ougbkgbmvbgksbqvz gvobuzvbrkl,gvbbzr.sbu grbgbkgbmugfrl gvl gbk
akfugauizubgwvaarklgbmvbgbkzfulbu gfugqrbmrl;g.sbgbmutgquzug uiurnu j
Rpgftg.k tgqkso gxknuzlgrbauopgvagquoo,gviikz rlxgbkgftgzsou,gvagftgfrl 
 kua,gqugamkso gfknugvgorbbougfkzugvbgkszguvaujggFtgfrl gqvagbmulglkb
klotgpzuugpzkfgbzks.ou,g.sb,gfkzuknuz,gpsoogkpgyktgvl gavbrapvibrkl,
vagrbgikffklotgra,gmvopg.tgrbagikfwouhrkl,gmvopg.tgrbag uarxl:

ggggggggggggggg“Luignrbrvlbgvzbsagvuxzvugiklbvxrvgfulbraj”

gggggggggg[“Lkzg kgbmugbzks.ouagkpgbmug.k tgunuzgvppuibgftgfrl j”
ggggggggggg--Knr ,gBzrabj,grrrjg8,g25j]

Rgvfgkpgbmugkwrlrklgbmvbgbmragbufwuzvbszugkpgftgaksogmvagkpbulgzvrau gft
.k tgpzkfgrbagovwaua;gbmragragkpbulg uwzuaau ;grpgbmugkbmuzg.uglkbg.zrac
vl gxvt,g‘bragvbgouvabgbzvlesrogvl gvbgzuabjggRgmv gvgesvzbvlgvxsugpksz
kzgprnugfklbma,gbmvbgfv ugfugokkcgfrauzv.otgroo;gftgfrl gqvagvoqvta,grp
lkbgivof,gtubgwouvavlbjggRpgbmugwvrlg.ugqrbmksbgfu,gbmugquvcluaagvl 
ovlxskzg kglkbgfsimgvpporibgfu;gRgauugnvzrksagikzwkzvogpvrlbrlxa,gbmvb
.uxubgvgmkzzkzgrlgfug.sbgbkglvfu,gqmrimgtubgRgamkso gouaagpuvzgbmvlgv
bmksavl gwvaarklagvl gvxrbvbrklagkpgbmugfrl gbmvbgRgauugv.ksbgfujggRgfvcu
swgftgfrl glkgfkzugbkgzsl;g‘bragulksxmgbmvbgRgivlgizvqogvoklx;glkzg kgR
fkzugikfwovrlgkpgbmuglvbszvog uiv uliugbmvbgRgpuuogrlgftauop:

ggggggggggggggg“Esragbsfr sfgxsbbszgfrzvbszgrlgVowr.sa?”

gggggggggg[“Qmkgragaszwzrau gbkgauugvgaqkooulgxkrbzugrlgbmugVowa?”
ggggggggggg--Ysnulvo,ghrrrjg162j]

bmvlgRgzuxzubgbmvbgftg szvbrklgamvooglkbg.ugvagoklxgvl gulbrzugvagbmvbgkp
vlgkvcj

Rgmvnuglkgzuvaklgbkgikfwovrlgkpgftgrfvxrlvbrkl;gRgmvnugmv gpuqgbmksxmba
rlgftgorpugbmvbgmvnugakgfsimgvag.zkculgftgaouuw,guhiuwbgbmkaugkpg uarzu,
qmrimgmvnugvqvculu gqrbmksbgvpporibrlxgfujggRg zuvfg.sbgauo kf,gvl gbmul
kpgimrfvuzvagvl gpvlbvabrigbmrlxa,gikffklotgwzk siu gpzkfgwouvavlb
bmksxmba,gvl gzvbmuzgzr risoksagbmvlgav ;gvl gRg.uorunugrbgbkg.ugbzsu
bmvbg zuvfagvzugpvrbmpsogrlbuzwzubuzagkpgkszgrliorlvbrkla;g.sbgbmuzugra
vzbgzuesrzu gbkgakzbgvl gsl uzabvl gbmuf

gggg“Zua,gesvugrlgnrbvgsaszwvlbgmkfrlua,gikxrbvlb,giszvlb,gnr ulb,
gggggEsvuesugvxslbgnrxrovlbua,gvxrbvlbesu,guvgargisrgrlgakflkgviir slb,
gggggFrlsagfrzvl sfguabj”

ggggg[“‘Bragouaagqkl uz,gqmvbgfulgwzvibrau,gbmrlc,givzugpkz,gauu,gvl g k
gggggqmulgqvcrlx,g(amkso gvoakgzslgrlgbmurzgmuv agvl g rabsz.gbmufgqmul
gggggbmutgvzugvaouuw)gvl gqmrimgvppuibgbmurzgpuuorlxa,grpgbmutgmvwwulgbk
gggggvltgrlgaouuwj”--Vbbrsa,girbu grlgIriuzk,g ug rnrlj,grjg22j]

Wovbk,gfkzuknuz,gavta,gbmvbg‘bragbmugkppriugkpgwzs uliugbkg zvq
rlabzsibrklagkpg rnrlvbrklgkpgpsbszugbmrlxagpzkfg zuvfa:gRg kl’bgclkq
v.ksbgbmra,g.sbgbmuzugvzugqkl uzpsogrlabvliuagkpgrbgbmvbgAkizvbua,
Hulkwmkl,gvl gVzrabkbou,gfulgkpgrzzuwzkvimv.ougvsbmkzrbt,gzuovbuj
MrabkzrvlagavtgbmvbgbmugVbovlbuaglunuzg zuvf;gqmkgvoakglunuzguvbgvlt
vlrfvogpkk ,gqmrimgRgv  ,gpkzvafsimgvagrbgra,gwuzv nulbszu,gbmugzuvakl
qmtgbmutglunuzg zuvf,gpkzgWtbmvxkzvagkz uzu gvgiuzbvrlgwzuwvzvbrklgkp
 rubgbkg.uxubgvwwzkwzrvbug zuvfajggFrlugvzugnuztgxulbou,gqrbmksbgvlt
vxrbvbrklgkpg.k tgkzguhwzuaarklgkpgnkriujggRgmvnugauulgaunuzvogkpgftgbrfu
qkl uzpsootg rabsz.u g.tgbmufjggBmuklgbmugwmrokakwmuzgqvocu grlgmra
aouuw,gvl gakg r gWuzriouagauznvlb,gvl gbmvbgswklgbmugbrouagvl gbkwgkp
bmugmksauj

Rgmvz otgunuzgimkkaugftg ramgvbgbv.ou,g.sbgbvcugbmugluhbgvbgmvl ,gvl 
slqroorlxotgimvlxugrbgpkzgvlkbmuzjggVgiklpsarklgkpgfuvbagvl gvgiovbbuzgkp
 ramuag rawouvaugfugvagfsimgvagvltgkbmuzgiklpsarkl:gRgvfguvarotgavbrapru 
qrbmgpuqg ramua:gvl gvfgvlguluftgbkgbmugkwrlrklgkpgPvnkzrlsa,gbmvbgrlgv
puvabgbmutgamkso galvbimgpzkfgtksgbmugfuvbgtksgorcu,gvl gaubgvgwovbugkp
vlkbmuzgakzbg.upkzugtks;gvl gbmvbg‘bragvgwrbrpsogaswwuz,grpgtksg kglkb
avbugtkszgxsuabagqrbmgbmugzsfwagkpgnvzrksagpkqoa,gbmug.uiivprikgklot
 uauznrlxgbkg.ugvooguvbuljggRgsasvootguvbgavobgfuvba,gtubgRgwzupuzg.zuv 
bmvbgmvaglkgavobgrlgrb;gvl gftg.vcuzglunuzgaul agswgkbmuzgbkgftgbv.ou,
iklbzvztgbkgbmugisabkfgkpgbmugikslbztjggRlgftgrlpvlit,gqmvbgbmutgmv gfkab
bkgikzzuibgrlgfugqvagbmugzupsavogkpgbmrlxagbmvbgimro zulgikffklotg.uab
oknu,gvagasxvz,gaquubfuvba,gvl gfvzim-wvluajggFtgbsbkzgiklbul u gqrbm
bmragvnuzarklgbkg uorivbugbmrlxa,gvagvgcrl gkpgknuz-lriubt;gvl grl uu 
‘braglkbmrlxguoaug.sbgvg rpprisobtgkpgbvabu,grlgvltbmrlxgrbgvwworua
rbauopgbkjggQmkunuzgiszuagvgimro gkpgvlgk.abrlvbugorcrlxgpkzg.zkqlg.zuv ,
.vikl,gkzgxvzori,giszuagmrfgvoakgkpgwvfwuzrlxgmragwvovbujggBmuzugvzugakfu
qmkgvppuibgbufwuzvliugvl gwovrlluaag.tgqramrlxgpkzg.uupgvl gmvfgvfklxab
bmugwvzbzr xua;g‘bragvoognuztgprlu;gbmragragbmug uorivitgkpgbmug uorivbu;
‘bragbmugbvabugkpgvlguppufrlvbugpkzbslugbmvbg razuoramuagkz rlvztgvl 
viisabkfu gbmrlxaj

ggggggggggggggg“Wuzgeshgoshszrvg rnrbrvzsfgbvu rkgos rbj”

ggggg[“.tgqmrimgbmugoshsztgkpgquvobmgivsauagbu rsfj”--Auluiv,gUwj,g18j]

Lkbgbkgfvcugxkk gimuuzgqrbmgqmvbgvlkbmuzgragulyktrlx,gvl gbkg.ugiszrksa
rlgqmvbgvgfvlguvba,gragbmuguaauliugkpgbmragnriu:

ggggggggggggggg“Argfk rivgikulvzugbrfuagkosagkflugwvbuoovj”

ggggg[“Rpgtksgivl’bg.ugiklbulbgqrbmgmuz.agrlgvgafvoog ramgpkzgaswwuzj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg5,g2j]

Bmuzugragrl uu gbmrag rppuzuliu,gbmvbg‘brag.ubbuzgbkgk.orxugklu’a
vwwubrbugbkgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugfkabguvatgbkg.ugmv ;g.sbg‘bragvoqvtagnriugbk
k.orxugklu’agauopjggRgpkzfuzotgavr gvgcrlafvlgkpgfrlugqvagknuzlriu,gqmk,
.tg.urlxgrlgkszgxvoouta,gmv gslouvzlu gbmugsaugkpg.u agvl gbkgsl zuaa
qmulgmugqulbgbkgaouuwj

RpgRgmv gvltgakla,gRgamkso gqroorlxotgqramgbmufgftgpkzbslujggBmugxkk 
pvbmuzgbmvbgXk gxvnugfug(qmkgmvaglkbmrlxgkpgfug.sbgbmugviclkqou xfulbgkp
mragxkk luaa,g.sbgbzsotg‘bragvgnuztgmuvzbtgklu)gaulbgfugpzkfgftgizv ougbk
.ug.zksxmbgswgrlgvgwkkzgnroovxugkpgmra,gvl gbmuzugiklbrlsu gfugvoogbmu
qmrougRgqvagvbglszau,gvl gabroogoklxuz,g.zrlxrlxgfugswgbkgbmugfuvluabgvl 
fkabgikffklgqvtgkpgornrlx:

gggggggggg“Fvxlvgwvzagor.uzbvbraguabg.ulugfkzvbsagnulbuzj”

gggggggggg[“Vgquoo-xknuzlu gabkfvimgragvgxzuvbgwvzbgkpgor.uzbtj”
ggggggggggg--Auluiv,Uwj,g123j]

Lunuzgbvcugswklgtkszauonua,gvl gfsimgouaagxrnugswgbkgtkszgqrnua,gbmugivzu
kpgbmurzglszbszu;gouvnugbmugpkzfvbrklgbkgpkzbslu,gsl uzgwkwsovzgvl 
lvbszvogovqa;gouvnugrbgbkgisabkfgbkgbzvrlgbmufgswgbkgpzsxvorbtgvl 
mvz amrw,gbmvbgbmutgfvtgzvbmuzg uaiul gpzkfgzrxkszgbmvlgfkslbgswgbkgrbj
Bmragmsfkszgkpgmragtubgvrfu gvbgvlkbmuzgul ,gbkgfvcugfugpvfrorvzgqrbmgbmu
wukwougvl gbmugikl rbrklgkpgfulgqmkgfkabgluu gkszgvaarabvliu;giklar uzrlx
bmvbgRgamkso gzvbmuzgzuxvz gbmufgqmkguhbul gbmurzgvzfagbkgfu,gbmvlgbmkau
qmkgbszlgbmurzg.vicagswklgfu;gvl gpkzgbmragzuvaklgrbgqvagbmvbgmugwzknr u 
bkgmko gfugvbgbmugpklbgwuzaklagkpgbmugfuvluabgpkzbslu,gbkgk.orxugvl 
vbbvimgfugbkgbmufj

Lkzgmvagmrag uarxlgasiiuu u gvobkxubmuzgroo;gpkz,gqmubmuzgswklgbmu
viikslbgkpgbmugfkzugmklkszgrlgasimgvgikl uaiularkl,gkzgksbgkpgvglvbszvo
ikfwvaarklgbmvbgmvagvgnuztgxzuvbgwkquzgknuzgfu,gRgmvnugvlgrliorlvbrkl
bkqvz agbmugfuvluzgakzbgkpgwukwoujggBmugpvibrklgqmrimgRgamkso gikl uflgrl
kszgqvza,gRgamkso gfkzugamvzwotgikl ufl,gpokszramrlxgvl gasiiuaapso;grb
qroogakfuqmvbgzuiklirougfugbkgrb,gqmulgRgamvoogauugrbgfrauzv.ougvl 
knuzqmuofu jggMkqgqroorlxotg kgRgv frzugbmugprlugmsfkszgkpgImuroklra,
 vsxmbuzgvl gqrpugbkgcrlxagkpgAwvzbvjggQmroabgmuzgmsa.vl gIoukf.zkbsa,grl
bmugikffkbrklgkpgmuzgirbt,gmv gbmugv nvlbvxugknuzgOuklr vagmuzgpvbmuz,
amu,gorcugvgxkk g vsxmbuz,gabsicgiokaugbkgmuzgpvbmuzgrlgvoogmragfrauzt
vl guhrou,grlgkwwkarbrklgbkgbmugiklesuzkzjgg.sbgakgakklgvagbmugimvliugkp
qvzgbszlu ,gamugimvlxu gmuzgqroogqrbmgbmugimvlxugkpgpkzbslu,gvl g.zvnuot
bszlu gbkgmuzgmsa.vl ’agar u,gqmkfgamugviikfwvlru gbmzksxmksb,gqmuzugmra
zsrlgivzzru gmrf:gv frbbrlx,gvagrbgvwwuvzagbkgfu,glkgkbmuzgimkriugbmvlgbk
iouvnugbkgbmugar ugbmvbgabkk gfkabgrlgluu gkpgmuz,gvl gqmuzugamugikso 
.uabgfvlrpuabgmuzgikfwvaarkljggRgvfglvbszvootgfkzugvwbgbkgpkookqgbmu
uhvfwougkpgPovfrlrsa,gqmkgzvbmuzgxvnugmragvaarabvliugbkgbmkaugqmkgmv 
fkabgluu gkpgmrfgbmvlgbkgbmkaugqmkgmv gwkquzgbkg kgmrfgxkk ,gbmvlgRg kgbk
bmvbgkpgWtzzmsa,gqmkgqvagkpgvlgmsfkszgbkgbzsicougsl uzgbmugxzuvbgvl gbk
 kfrluuzgknuzgbmugwkkzj

Oklxgarbbrlxagvbgbv.oug.kbmgbzks.ougfugvl g kgfugmvzf;gpkz,g.ugrbgbmvbgR
qvagakgviisabkfu gqmulgvgimro ,gRguvbgvoogbmugqmrougRgarbjggBmuzupkzugrb
ragbmvbgvbgftgkqlgmksau,gbmksxmgbmugfuvoagbmuzugvzugkpgbmugamkzbuab,gR
sasvootgarbg kqlgvgorbbougqmrougvpbuzgbmugzuab,gvpbuzgbmugfvlluzgkp
Vsxsabsa,g.sbgRg kglkbgrfrbvbugmrfgrlgzrarlxgvoakg.upkzugbmugzuab;gklgbmu
iklbzvzt,gRgoknugbkgarbgabroogvgoklxgbrfugvpbuz,gvl gbkgmuvzgbmufgbvoc,
wzknr u gRgvfglklugkpgbmugbvocuza:gpkzgRgbrzugvl gmszbgftauopgqrbm
awuvcrlxgswklgvgpsoogabkfvim,gvagfsimgvagRgprl grbgnuztgqmkouakfugvl 
wouvavlbgbkgvzxsugvl gbkgabzvrlgftgnkriug.upkzug rlluzj

BmugvlirulbgXzuucagvl gZkfvlagmv gfkzugzuvaklgbmvlgqugrlgaubbrlxgvwvzb
pkzguvbrlx,gqmrimgragvgwzrlirwvogvibrklgkpgorpu,grpgbmutgquzuglkb
wzunulbu g.tgkbmuzguhbzvkz rlvztg.sarluaa,gfvltgmkszagvl gbmugxzuvbuab
wvzbgkpgbmuglrxmb;guvbrlxgvl g zrlcrlxgfkzug uor.uzvbuotgbmvlgqug k,gqmk
wuzpkzfgvoogkszgvibrklagwkab-mvabu;gvl grlguhbul rlxgbmraglvbszvo
wouvaszugbkgfkzugouraszugvl g.ubbuzgsau,grlbuzfrhrlxgqrbmgwzkprbv.ou
iklnuzavbrklj

Bmutgqmkaugikliuzlgrbgragbkgmvnugvgivzugkpgfu,gfvtgnuztguvarotgmrl uzgfu
pzkfguvbrlxgvltbmrlxgbmutgbmrlcgqroog kgfugmvzf;gpkzgrlgasimgfvbbuzagR
lunuzgiknubglkzgfraagvltbmrlxgRg kglkbgauu;g.sbgqrbmvo,grpgrbgkliugikfua
rlgftgarxmb,g‘bragrlgnvrlgbkgwuzasv ugfugbkgpkz.uvz;gakgbmvbgqmulgR
 uarxlgbkgpvabgRgfsabg.ugcuwbgvwvzbgpzkfgbmugaswwuza,gvl gfsabgmvnugklot
akgfsimgxrnulgfugvagragzuesrzu gpkzgvgwzuaizr.u gikoovbrkl;gpkzgrpgbk
bv.ou,gRgpkzxubgftgzuakosbrkljggQmulgRgkz uzgftgikkcgbkgvobuzgbmugfvlluz
kpg zuaarlxgvltg ram,gvoogftgpvfrotgclkqgqmvbgrbgfuvla,gbmvbgftgabkfvim
ragksbgkpgkz uz,gvl gbmvbgRgamvooglkbgbksimgrbj

Rgoknugbkgmvnugvoogfuvba,gbmvbgqroogul szugrb,gnuztgorbboug.krou gkz
zkvabu ,gvl gwzupuzgbmufgnuztgmrxm,gvl gunul,gvagbkgaunuzvo,gesrbugxkluj
Lkbmrlxg.sbgmvz luaagxuluzvootgkppul agfug(kpgvltgkbmuzgesvorbtgRgvfgva
wvbrulbgvl grl rppuzulbgvagvltgfvlgRgmvnugclkql);gakgbmvb,giklbzvztgbk
bmugikffklgmsfksz,gunulgrlgpramgrbgkpbulgmvwwulagbmvbgRgprl gbmufg.kbm
bkkgpzuamgvl gbkkgprzf;glkbgpkzgqvlbgkpgbuubm,gqmrimgRgunuzgmv gxkk ,
unulgbkguhiuoouliu,gvl gqmrimgvxug kuaglkbglkqg.uxrlgbkgbmzuvbul;gRgmvnu
voqvtag.uulgsau gunuztgfkzlrlxgbkgzs.gbmufgqrbmgvglvwcrl,gvl g.upkzugvl 
vpbuzg rlluzjggXk gragpvnkszv.ougbkgbmkaugqmkfgMugfvcuagbkg rug.t
 uxzuua;g‘bragbmugklotg.uluprbgkpgko gvxu;gbmugovabg uvbmgqroog.ugakgfsim
bmugouaagwvrlpso;grbgqroogcroog.sbgvgmvopgkzgvgesvzbuzgkpgvgfvljggBmuzu
ragklugbkkbmgovbuotgpvooulgksbgqrbmksbg zvqrlxgvl gqrbmksbgwvrl;grbgqva
bmuglvbszvogbuzfgkpgrbag szvbrkl;grlgbmvbgwvzbgkpgftg.urlxgvl gaunuzvo
kbmuza,gvzugvozuv tg uv ,gkbmuzagmvopg uv ,gkpgbmkaugbmvbgquzugfkab
vibrnugvl grlgbmugprzabgzvlcg szrlxgftgnrxkzksagtuvza;g‘bragakgRgfuobgvl 
abuvogvqvtgpzkfgftauopjggQmvbgvgpkootgrbgqkso g.ugrlgftgsl uzabvl rlxgbk
vwwzumul gbmugmurxmbgkpgbmragpvoo,gvozuv tgakgfsimgv nvliu ,gvagrpgrb
quzugpzkfgbmugnuztgbkw!ggRgmkwugRgamvooglkbjggR,grlgbzsbm,gzuiurnugv
wzrlirwvogiklakovbrklgrlgfu rbvbrlxgftg uvbm,gbmvbgrbgqroog.ugysabgvl 
lvbszvo,gvl gbmvbgmuliupkzqvz gRgivllkbgmuzurlgurbmuzgzuesrzugkzgmkwu
pzkfg uabrltgvltgkbmuzg.sbgslovqpsogpvnkszjggFulgfvcugbmufauonuag.uorunu
bmvbgqugpkzfuzotgmv goklxuzgornuagvagquoogvagxzuvbuzgabvbszujgg.sbgbmut
 uiurnugbmufauonua;gvl gAkokl,gqmkgqvagkpgbmkauguo uzgbrfua,gorfrbagbmu
 szvbrklgkpgorpugbkgbmzuuaikzugvl gbulgtuvzajgR,gqmkgmvnugakgfsimgvl gak
slrnuzavootgv kzu gbmvbg“Bmugfuvlgrag.uab,”gkpgbmugwvaau gbrfu,gvl gqmk
mvnugiklios u gbmugfkabgfk uzvbugfuvaszuagbkg.ugbmugfkabgwuzpuib,gamvoo
Rgwzubul gbkgvlgrffuvaszv.ougvl gwzk rxrksagko gvxu?ggQmvbunuzgmvwwula
iklbzvztgbkgbmugikszaugkpglvbszugfvtg.ugbzks.ouakfu;g.sbgqmvbgikfua
viikz rlxgbkgmuzgamkso gvoqvtag.ugwouvavlb:

ggggg“Kflrv,gesvugauisl sfglvbszvfgprslb,gaslbgmv.ul vgrlg.klraj”

ggggg[“Voogbmrlxagbmvbgvzug klugviikz rlxgbkglvbszu
gggggvzugbkg.ugviikslbu gxkk j”--Iriuzk,g ugAuluibj,gijg19j]

Vl gak,gavtagWovbk,gbmug uvbmgqmrimgragkiivarklu g.tgqksl agvl g rauvaua
ragnrkoulb;g.sbgbmvbgqmrimgikfuagswklgsa,gko gvxugikl sibrlxgsagbkgrb,gra
kpgvoogkbmuzagbmugfkabguvat,gvl grlgakfugakzbg uorirksa:

gggggggggg“Nrbvfgv kouaiulbr.sagnragvspuzb,gaulr.sagfvbszrbvaj”

ggggg[“Tkslxgfulgvzugbvculgvqvtg.tgnrkouliu,gko gfulg.tgfvbszrbtj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gs.rgaswj]

 uvbmgfrhuagvl giklpksl agrbauopgbmzksxmksbgqrbmgorpu;g uivtgvlbrirwvbua
rbagmksz,gvl gamkso uzagrbauopgunulgrlbkgbmugikszaugkpgkszgv nvliuj
Rgmvnugwkzbzvrbagkpgftauopgbvculgvbgprnu-vl -bqulbtgvl gprnu-vl -bmrzbt
tuvzagkpgvxujggRgikfwvzugbmufgqrbmgbmvbgovbuotg zvql:gmkqgfvltgbrfuagra
rbglkgoklxuzgfu;gmkqgfsimgfkzugragftgwzuaulbgrfvxugslorcugbmugpkzfuz,
bmvlgslorcugftg trlxgklu?ggRbgragbkkgfsimgbkgv.sauglvbszu,gbkgfvcugmuz
bzkbgakgpvzgbmvbgamugfsabg.ugpkziu gbkgouvnugsa,gvl gv.vl klgkszgikl sib,
kszgutua,gbuubm,gouxa,gvl gvoogbmugzuabgbkgbmugfuzitgkpgvgpkzurxlgvl 
mvxxvz gikslbulvliu,gvl gbkgzuarxlgsagrlbkgbmugmvl agkpgvzb,g.urlxgquvzt
kpgpkookqrlxgsagmuzauopj

Rgvfglkbguhiuaarnuotgpkl gurbmuzgkpgavov agkzgpzsrba,guhiuwbgfuoklajggFt
pvbmuzgmvbu gvoogakzbagkpgavsiua;gRgoknugbmufgvoojggUvbrlxgbkkgfsimgmszba
fu;g.sb,gvagbkgbmugesvorbtgkpgqmvbgRguvb,gRg kglkbgtubgiuzbvrlotgclkq
bmvbgvltgakzbgkpgfuvbg ravxzuuagqrbmgfu;glurbmuzgmvnugRgk.auznu gbmvb
urbmuzgpsoogfkklgkzg uizuvau,gvsbsflgkzgawzrlx,gmvnugvltgrlposuliugswkl
fujggQugmvnugrlgsagfkbrklagbmvbgvzugrliklabvlbgvl gslclkql;gpkzguhvfwou,
Rgpksl gzv ramuagprzabgxzvbupsogbkgftgabkfvim,garliugbmvbglvsauksa,gvl 
lkqgvxvrlgxzvbupsojggRlgaunuzvogkbmuzgbmrlxa,gRgprl gftgabkfvimgvl 
vwwubrbugnvztgvpbuzgbmugavfugfvlluz;gRgmvnugimvlxu gvxvrlgvl gvxvrlgpzkf
qmrbugqrlugbkgiovzub,gpzkfgiovzubgbkgqmrbugqrluj

Rgvfgvgxzuvbgoknuzgkpgpram,gvl giklauesulbotgfvcugftgpvabagpuvabagvl 
puvabagpvaba;gvl gRg.uorunugqmvbgakfugwukwougavt,gbmvbgrbgragfkzuguvatgkp
 rxuabrklgbmvlgpouamjggVagRgfvcugvgiklairuliugkpguvbrlxgpouamgswkl
pram- vta,gakg kuagftgbvabugfvcugvgiklairuliugkpgfrhrlxgpramgvl gpouam;
bmug rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgbmufgauufagbkgfugbkkgzufkbuj

Pzkfgftgtksbm,gRgmvnugakfubrfuagcuwbgksbgkpgbmugqvtgvbgfuvoa;gurbmuzgbk
amvzwulgftgvwwubrbugvxvrlabgbmugluhbgfkzlrlxg(pkz,gvagUwriszsagpvabu gvl 
fv ugouvlgfuvoagbkgviisabkfgmragwouvaszugbkgfvcugamrpbgqrbmksbgv.sl vliu,
R,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,g kgrbgbkgwzuwvzugftgwouvaszugbkgfvcug.ubbuzgvl gfkzu
imuuzpsogsaugkpgv.sl vliu);gkzguoaugRgpvabu gbkgwzuauznugftgnrxkszgpkz
bmugauznriugkpgakfugvibrklgkpg.k tgkzgfrl :gpkzg.kbmgbmugklugvl gbmu
kbmuzgkpgbmuaugragizsuootg soou grlgfug.tgzuwoubrkl;gvl ,gv.knugvoo
bmrlxa,gRgmvbugbmvbgpkkoramgiksworlxgkpgakgmuvobmpsogvl gawzrxmbotgv
xk  uaagqrbmgbmvbgorbboug.uoimrlxgxk ,g.okvbu gqrbmgbmugpsfuagkpgmra
oreskz--[gFklbvrxlug r glkbgvwwzknugkpgiksworlxg.viimsagqrbmgNulsaj]--
kzgbkgiszugftgaricgabkfvim,gkzgpkzgqvlbgkpgprbgikfwvlt;gpkzgRgavt,gvagbmu
avfugUwriszsag r ,gbmvbgklugraglkbgakgfsimgbkgzuxvz gqmvbgmuguvba,gva
qrbmgqmkf;gvl gRgikfful gImrok,gbmvbgmugqkso glkbgulxvxugmrfauopgbkg.ugvb
Wuzrvl uz’agpuvabgbroogmugqvagprzabgrlpkzfu gqmkgquzugbkg.ugbmugkbmuz
xsuaba;glkg ramgragakgviiuwbv.ougbkgfu,glkzglkgavsiugakgvwwubrarlx,gva
bmvbgqmrimgraguhbzvibu gpzkfgakirubtjggRgbmrlcgrbgfkzugqmkouakfugbkguvb
fkzugouraszuotgvl gouaa,gvl gbkguvbgkpbuluz;g.sbgRgqkso gmvnugvwwubrbu
vl gmslxuzgvbbul u gbk;gRgamkso gbvcuglkgwouvaszugbkg.ugpu gqrbmgbmzuugkz
pkszgwrbrpsogvl gabrlbu gzuwvabagvg vt,gvpbuzgvgfu rirlvogfvlluz:gqmk
qroogvaaszugfugbmvb,grpgRgmvnugvgxkk gvwwubrbugrlgbmugfkzlrlx,gRgamvoo
mvnugbmugavfugvbgaswwuz?gg.sbgqugko gpuookqaguawuirvoot,goubgsagbvcugbmu
przabgkwwkzbslugbrfugkpguvbrlx,gvl gouvnugbkgvofvlvi-fvcuzagmkwuagvl 
wzkxlkabriajggBmugsbfkabgpzsrbgkpgftgmuvobmgragwouvaszu;goubgsagbvcugmko 
kpgbmugwzuaulbgvl gclkqljggRgvnkr gbmugrlnvzrv.ougrlgbmuaugovqagkp
pvabrlx;gmugqmkgqkso gmvnugklugpkzfgauznugmrf,goubgmrfgvnkr gbmu
iklbrlsrlxgrb;gqugmvz ulgkszauonuagrlgrb;gkszgabzulxbmgragbmuzugabswupru 
vl govr gvaouuw;garhgfklbmagvpbuz,gtksgamvoogprl gtkszgabkfvimgakgrlszu 
bkgrb,gbmvbgvoogtksgmvnugxkbgragbmugokaagkpgtkszgor.uzbtgkpg krlx
kbmuzqraug.sbgbkgtkszgwzuys riuj

Rglunuzgcuuwgftgouxagvl gbmrxmagqvzfuzgrlgqrlbuzgbmvlgrlgasffuz;gklu
arfwougwvrzgkpgarocgabkicrlxagragvoojggRgmvnugasppuzu gftauop,gpkzgbmu
zuorupgkpgftgiko a,gbkgcuuwgftgmuv gqvzfuz,gvl gftg.uootgswklgbmugviikslb
kpgftgikori:gftg rauvauagrlgvgpuqg vtagmv.rbsvbugbmufauonuagbmuzubk,gvl 
 ra vrlu gftgkz rlvztgwzknrarkla:gqugakklgxubgpzkfgvgikrpgbkgvgcuzimrup
knuzgrb,gpzkfgvgarfwougivwgbkgvgesrobu gmvb;gbmugbzrffrlxagkpgbmug ks.oub
fsabglkbgfuzuotgauznugpkzgkzlvfulb:gbmuzugfsabg.ugv  u gvgmvzu’agacrlgkz
vgnsobszu’agacrl,gvl gvgivwgsl uzgbmugmvb:gpkookqgbmragxzv vbrkl,gvl gtks
qroogxkgvgnuztgprlugqvtgbkgqkzcjggRgqroog kglkbmrlxgkpgbmugakzb,gvl 
qkso gqroorlxotgouvnugkppgqmvbgRgmvnug.uxsljggRpgtksgpvoogrlbkgvltgluq
rliklnulruliu,gvoogbmragragov.kszgokab;gtksgvzugviisabkfu gbkgrb;gauuc
ksbgakfugkbmuzjggBmsag kgbmutg uabzktgbmufauonuagqmkgas.frbgbkg.u
wuabuzu gqrbmgbmuaugulpkziu gvl gaswuzabrbrksagzsoua;gbmutgfsabgv  
akfubmrlxgfkzu,gvl gakfubmrlxgfkzugvpbuzgbmvb;gbmuzugraglkgul gkl’bj

Pkzgqmvbgikliuzlagkszgvppvrzagvl gwouvaszua,grbgragfsimgfkzugikffk rksa,
vagbmugvlirulbag r ,gbkgokaugklu’ag rlluz,gvl g upuzgfvcrlxgxkk gimuuz
broogbmugmkszgkpgzubrzufulbgvl gzuwkau,gqrbmksbg.zuvcrlxgswgvg vt;gvl gak
qvagRgpkzfuzotgsau gbkg kjggVagbkgmuvobm,gRgarliug.tguhwuzruliugprl ,gkl
bmugiklbzvzt,gbmvbgrbgrag.ubbuzgbkg rlu,gvl gbmvbgbmug rxuabrklgrag.ubbuz
qmrougvqvcujggRgvfglkbgnuztgsau gbkg.ugbmrzabt,gurbmuzgquoogkzgaric;gft
fksbmgra,grl uu ,gvwbgbkg.ug zt,g.sbgqrbmksbgbmrzab;gvl gikffklotgRglunuz
 zrlcg.sbgqrbmgbmrzabgbmvbgragizuvbu g.tguvbrlx,gvl gpvzgklgrlgbmugfuvo;
Rg zrlcgwzubbtgquoogpkzgvgfvlgkpgftgwrbim:grlgasffuz,gvl gvbgvgzuoramrlx
fuvo,gRg kglkbgklotguhiuu gbmugorfrbagkpgVsxsabsa,gqmkg zvlcg.sbgbmzriu
wzuirauot;g.sbglkbgbkgkppul g ufkizrbsagzsou,gqmkgpkz.v ugbmvbgfulgamkso 
abkwgvbgpkszgbrfuagvagvlgslosictglsf.uz,gRgwzkiuu gvbgluu gbkgbmugprpbm
xovaa,gv.ksbgbmzuugmvop-wrlba;gpkzgbmugorbbougxovaauagvzugftgpvnkszrbua,
vl gRgorcugbkg zrlcgbmufgkpp,gqmrimgkbmuzgwukwougvnkr gvagvlgsl.uikfrlx
bmrlxjggRgfrhgftgqrlugakfubrfuagqrbmgmvop,gakfubrfuagqrbmgbmugbmrz gwvzb
qvbuz;gvl gqmulgRgvfgvbgmkfu,g.tgvlgvlirulbgisabkfgbmvbgftgpvbmuz’a
wmtarirvlgwzuaizr.u g.kbmgbkgmrfgvl gmrfauop,gbmutgfrhgbmvbgqmrimgra
 uarxlu gpkzgfugrlgbmug.sbbuzt,gbqkgkzgbmzuugmkszag.upkzug‘brag.zksxmb
rljgg‘Bragavr gbmvbgIzvlv.a,gcrlxgkpgVbbriv,gqvagbmugrlnulbkzgkpgbmra
isabkfgkpg rosbrlxgqrlu;gqmubmuzgsaupsogkzglk,gRgmvnugmuvz g rawsbu j
Rgbmrlcgrbgfkzug uiulbgvl gqmkouakfugpkzgimro zulgbkg zrlcglkgqrlugbroo
vpbuzgarhbuulgkzgurxmbuulgtuvzagkpgvxujggBmugfkabgsasvogvl gikffklgfubmk 
kpgornrlxgragbmugfkabg.uikfrlx;gvoogwvzbrisovzrbt,grlgftgkwrlrkl,gragbk
.ugvnkr u ;gvl gRgamkso gvagfsimgmvbugvgXuzfvlgqmkgfrhu gqvbuzgqrbmgmra
qrlu,gvagRgamkso gvgPzulimfvlgqmkg zvlcgrbgwszujggWs.origsavxugxrnuagbmu
ovqgrlgbmuaugbmrlxaj

Rgpuvzgvgfrab,gvl gpotgpzkfgafkcugvagpzkfgbmugwovxsu:gbmugprzabgzuwvrzagR
puoogswklgrlgftgkqlgmksaugquzugbmugimrflutagvl gmksauagkpgkppriu,gbmu
ikffklgvl grlaswwkzbv.oug upuibagkpgvoogko g.sro rlxa;gvl gvfklxabgbmu
 rpprisobruagkpgqvzgRgzuicklgbmugimkcrlxg sabgbmutgfv ugsagzr ugrlgv
qmkoug vtgbkxubmuzjggRgmvnugvgpzuugvl guvatgzuawrzvbrkl,gvl gftgiko agpkz
bmugfkabgwvzbgxkgkppgqrbmksbgkppuliugbkgbmugoslxagvl gqrbmksbgvgiksxmj

Bmugmuvbgkpgasffuzgragfkzugvlguluftgbkgfugbmvlgbmugiko gkpgqrlbuz;gpkz,
.uar uagbmugrlikffk rbtgkpgmuvb,gouaagzufu rv.ougbmvlgiko ,gvl g.uar ua
bmugpkziugkpgbmugasl.uvfagbmvbgabzrcugswklgbmugmuv ,gvoogxorbbuzrlxgorxmb
kppul agftgutua,gakgbmvbgRgikso glkbglkqgarbgvbg rlluzgknuzgvxvrlabgv
povfrlxgprzuj

Bkg soogbmugqmrbuluaagkpgwvwuz,grlgbmkaugbrfuagqmulgRgqvagfkzugqklbgbk
zuv ,gRgovr gvgwruiugkpgxovaagswklgftg.kkc,gvl gpksl gftgutuagfsim
zuorunu g.tgrbjggRgvfgbkgbmragmksz--bkgbmugvxugkpgprpbt-pksz--Rxlkzvlbgkp
bmugsaugkpgawuibvioua;gvl gRgivlgauugvagpvzgvagunuzgRg r ,gkzgvltgkbmuzj
‘BragbzsugbmvbgrlgbmugunulrlxgRg.uxrlgbkgprl gvgorbboug rabsz.vliugvl 
quvcluaagrlgftgarxmbgrpgRgzuv ,gvlguhuziraugRgmvnugvoqvtagpksl 
bzks.ouakfu,guawuirvootg.tglrxmbjggMuzugragklugabuwg.vic,gvl gvgnuzt
fvlrpuabgklu;gRgamvoogzubrzugvlkbmuz:gpzkfgbmugauikl gbkgbmugbmrz ,gvl 
akgbkgbmugpkszbm,gakgxulbot,gbmvbgRgamvoog.ugabvzcg.orl g.upkzugRgamvoo
.ugaular.ougkpgbmugvxugvl g uivtgkpgftgarxmb:gakgvzbrprirvootg kgbmu
PvbvogArabuzagslbqrabgkszgornuajggVl gakgRg ks.bgqmubmuzgftgmuvzrlx
.uxrlagbkgxzkqgbmric;gvl gtksgqroogauugRgamvoogmvnugmvopgokabgrb,gqmulgR
amvoogabroogovtgbmugpvsobgklgbmugnkriuagkpgbmkaugqmkgawuvcgbkgfujggVgfvl
fsabgaizuqgswgmragaksogbkgvgmrxmgwrbimgbkgfvcugrbgaular.ougmkqgrbgu..a
vqvtj

Ftgqvocrlxgragesricgvl gprzf;gvl gRgclkqglkbgqmrimgkpgbmugbqk,gftgfrl gkz
ftg.k t,gRgmvnugfkabgbkg kgbkgcuuwgrlgbmugavfugabvbujggBmvbgwzuvimuzgra
nuztgfsimgftgpzrul gqmkgivlgprhgftgvbbulbrklgvgqmkougauzfklgbmzksxm:grl
woviuagkpgiuzufklt,gqmuzugunuztgklu’agikslbulvliugragakgabvzimu ,gqmuzugR
mvnugauulgbmugov ruagcuuwgunulgbmurzgutuagakgprhu ,gRgikso glunuzgkz uz
rbgak,gbmvbgakfugwvzbgkzgkbmuzgkpgfug r glkbgovamgksb;gakgbmvbgbmksxmgR
qvagauvbu ,gRgqvaglunuzgaubbou ;gvl gvagbkgxuabrisovbrkl,gRgvfglunuz
qrbmksbgvgaqrbimgrlgftgmvl ,gqvocrlxgkzgzr rlxjggVagbmugwmrokakwmuz
Imztarwwsa’gfvr gavr gkpgmuzgfvabuz,gbmvbgmugqvagklotg zslcgrlgmragouxa,
pkzgrbgqvagmragisabkfgbkg.ugvoqvtagcricrlxgbmufgv.ksbgrlgqmvbgwoviu
akunuzgmugavb;gvl gamugavr grbgqmul,gbmugqrlugmvnrlxgfv ugvoogmra
ikfwvlrklag zslc,gmugpksl glkgvobuzvbrklgrlgmrfauopgvbgvoo;grbgfvtgmvnu
.uulgavr gkpgfugpzkfgftgrlpvlit,gbmvbgRgmv gurbmuzgpkootgkzgesricaronuz
rlgftgpuub,gakgfsimgabrzzrlxgvl gslaubbou luaagbmuzugragrlgbmuf,gqmuzunuz
bmutgvzugwoviu j

‘Bragrl uiulb,g.uar uagbmugmszbgrbg kuagbkgklu’agmuvobm,gvl gunulgbkgbmu
wouvaszugkpguvbrlx,gbkguvbgxzuu rotgvagRg k;gRgkpbulg.rbugftgbklxsu,gvl 
akfubrfuagftgprlxuza,grlgftgmvabujgg rkxulua,gfuubrlxgvg.ktguvbrlxgvpbuz
bmvbgfvlluz,gxvnugmragbsbkzgvg.khgklgbmuguvz!ggBmuzugquzugfulgvbgZkfu
bmvbgbvsxmbgwukwougbkgimuq,gvagquoogvagbkgqvoc,gqrbmgvgxkk gxzviujggR
okaugbmuzu.tgbmugouraszugkpgawuvcrlx,gqmrimgxrnuagxzuvbgzuoramgbkgbmu
bv.ou,gwzknr u gbmug raikszaug.ugasrbv.ou,gbmvbgra,gwouvavlbgvl gamkzbj

Bmuzugragyuvoksatgvl gulntgvfklxabgkszgwouvaszua;gbmutgizkaagvl gmrl uz
klugvlkbmuzjggVoir.rv ua,gvgfvlgqmkgquoogsl uzabkk gmkqgbkgfvcugxkk 
imuuz,g.vlramu gunulgfsarigpzkfgbmugbv.ou,gbmvbgrbgfrxmbglkbg rabsz.gbmu
ulbuzbvrlfulbgkpg raikszau,gpkzgbmugzuvakl,gvagWovbkgbuooagsa,g“bmvbgrb
ragbmugisabkfgkpgkz rlvztgwukwougbkgivoogpr  ouzagvl garlxrlxgfulgbk
puvaba,gpkzgqvlbgkpgxkk g raikszaugvl gwouvavlbgbvoc,gqrbmgqmrimgfulgkp
sl uzabvl rlxgclkqgmkqgbkgulbuzbvrlgklugvlkbmuzj”ggNvzzkgzuesrzuagvoo
bmragrlgulbuzbvrlfulba:g“Wuzaklagkpgxzviupsogwzuauliugvl gvxzuuv.ou
iklnuzavbrkl,gqmkgvzuglurbmuzgaroulbglkzgxvzzsoksa;gluvbluaagvl 
 uorivit,g.kbmgkpgfuvbgvl gwoviu;gvl gpvrzgquvbmuzj”ggBmugvzbgkpg rlrlx
quoograglkgaorxmbgvzb,gbmugwouvaszuglkbgvgaorxmbgwouvaszu;glurbmuzgbmu
xzuvbuabgivwbvrlaglkzgbmugxzuvbuabgwmrokakwmuzagmvnug ra vrlu gbmugsaugkz
airuliugkpguvbrlxgquoojggFtgrfvxrlvbrklgmvag uornuzu gbmzuugzuwvabagbk
bmugisabk tgkpgftgfufkzt,gqmrimgpkzbslugzul uzu gaknuzurxlotgaquubgbkgfu,
swklgaunuzvogkiivarklagrlgftgfkzugpokszramrlxgvxu;gftgwzuaulbgabvbu
uhios uagfu;gpkzgunuztgklu,gviikz rlxgbkgbmugxkk gbufwuzgkpg.k tgvl gfrl 
qmuzurlgmugbmulgprl agmrfauop,gpszlramuagpkzgmragkqlgamvzugvgwvzbrisovz
xzviugvl gavnkszjggR,gqmkg.sbgizvqogswklgbmuguvzbm,gmvbugbmragrlmsfvl
qra kf,gbmvbgqroogmvnugsag uawraugvl gmvbugvoogisobszugkpgbmug.k t;gR
okkcgswklgrbgvagvlguesvogrlysabriugbkgokvbmglvbszvogwouvaszuagvagbkg.u
bkkgfsimgrlgoknugqrbmgbmufjggHuzhuagqvagvg.okicmuv ,gqmk,gulnrzklu gqrbm
voogmsfvlg uorxmba,gwzkwkau gvgzuqvz gbkgmrfgqmkgikso gprl gksbgkbmuza;
.sbgmugraglkbgfsimgouaagakgqmkgisbagkppgvltgkpgbmkaugwouvaszuagbmvb
lvbszugmvagwzknr u gpkzgmrfjggVgfvlgamkso glurbmuzgwszasuglkzgvnkr gbmuf,
.sbgzuiurnugbmufjggRgzuiurnugbmuf,gRgiklpuaa,gvgorbbougbkkgqvzfotgvl 
crl ot,gvl guvarotgasppuzgftauopgbkgpkookqgftglvbszvogwzkwularklajggQu
mvnuglkgluu gbkguhvxxuzvbugbmurzgrlvlrbt;gbmutgbmufauonuagqroogfvcugsa
aspprirulbotgaular.ougkpgrb,gbmvlcagbkgkszgaricgqub-.ovlcubgfrl ,gbmvb
wsbagsagksbgkpgbvabugqrbmgbmufgvagqrbmgrbauop;grbgbzuvbag.kbmgrbauopgvl 
voogrbgzuiurnua,gklugqmroug.ubbuz,gvl gvlkbmuzgqkzau,gviikz rlxgbkgrba
rlavbrv.ou,gnvxv.kl ,gvl gnuzavbrouguaauliu:

ggggggggg“Arliuzsfguabglrargnva,gesk islesugrlpsl ra,gviuairbj”

gggggggggg[“Slouaagbmugnuaauog.ugiouvl,grbgqroogakszgqmvbunuz
ggggggggggtksgwsbgrlbkgrbj”--Mkzviu,gUwj,grjg2,g54j]

R,gqmkg.kvabgbmvbgRgakgiszrksaotgvl gwvzbrisovzotguf.zviugbmu
iklnulruliuagkpgorpu,gprl gbmuf,gqmulgRgfkabgluvzotgiklar uzgbmuf,gnuzt
orbbougfkzugbmvlgqrl jgg.sbgqmvb?ggQugvzugvoogqrl gbmzksxmksb;gvl ,
fkzuknuz,gbmugqrl grbauop,gfkzug raizuubgbmvlgqu,goknuagbkg.osabuzgvl 
amrpbgpzkfgikzluzgbkgikzluz,gvl giklbulbagrbauopgqrbmgrbagwzkwuzgkppriua
qrbmksbg uarzrlxgabv.rorbtgvl gakor rbt-esvorbruaglkbgrbagkqlj

Bmugwszugwouvaszua,gvagquoogvagbmugwszug rawouvaszua,gkpgbmugrfvxrlvbrkl,
avtgakfu,gvzugbmugxzuvbuab,gvagqvaguhwzuaau g.tgbmug.vovliugkp
Izrbkovrrajgg‘Braglkgqkl uz;grbgfvcuagbmufgbkgrbagkqlgorcrlx,gvl gisba
bmufgksbgkpgbmugqmkougiokbm;gkpgbmragRgunuztg vtgauuglkbv.ouguhvfwoua,
vl ,gwuzv nulbszu,gbkg.ug uarzu jgg.sbgR,gqmkgvfgkpgvgfrhu gvl gmuvnt
ikl rbrkl,givllkbgalvwgakgakklgvbgbmragklugarfwougk.yuib,g.sbgbmvbgR
luxorxulbotgasppuzgftauopgbkg.ugivzzru gvqvtgqrbmgbmugwzuaulbgwouvaszua
kpgbmu,gxuluzvogmsfvlgovq,grlbuoouibsvootgaular.ou,gvl gaular.ot
rlbuoouibsvojggBmugItzulvrigwmrokakwmuzagqroogmvnugrbgbmvbgvagikzwkzvo
wvrla,gakgikzwkzvogwouvaszuagvzugfkzugwkquzpso,g.kbmgvag ks.ougvl gva
fkzugysabjggBmuzugvzugakfu,gvagVzrabkbougavta,gqmkgksbgkpgvgavnvxugcrl 
kpgabswr rbtg raorcugbmuf;gvl gRgclkqgkbmuzagqmkgksbgkpgvf.rbrklg kgbmu
avfujggQmtg kgbmutglkb,gfkzuknuz,gpkzaquvzg.zuvbmrlx?ggqmtg kgbmutglkb
ornugkpgbmurzgkql?ggqmtglkbgzupsaugorxmb,g.uivsaugrbgragxzvbsrbksa,gvl 
ikabagbmufglurbmuzgrlnulbrklglkzguhuzbrkl?ggOubgFvza,gWvoova,gkzgFuziszt
vppkz gbmufgbmurzgorxmbg.tgqmrimgbkgauu,grlabuv gkpgNulsa,gIuzua,gvl 
.viimsajggBmuaug.kvabpsogmsfkszagfvtgikslbuzpurbgakfugiklbulb,gpkzgqmvb
qrooglkbgpvlitg k?gg.sbgvagbkgqra kf,gbmuzugraglkgbksimgkpgrbjggQroogbmut
lkbgauucgbmugesv zvbszugkpgbmugirziou,gunulgqmulgklgbmurzgqrnua?ggRgmvbu
bmvbgqugamkso g.ugulykrlu gbkgmvnugkszgfrl agrlgbmugioks a,gqmulgksz
.k ruagvzugvbgbv.ou;gRgqkso glkbgmvnugbmugfrl glvrou gbmuzu,glkzgqvookq
bmuzu;gRgqkso gmvnugrbgbvcugwoviugbmuzugvl garb,g.sbglkbgorug kqlj
Vzrabrwwsagfvrlbvrlu glkbmrlxg.sbgbmug.k t,gvagrpgqugmv glkgakso;gDulk
ikfwzumul u gklotgbmugakso,gvagrpgqugmv glkg.k t:g.kbmgkpgbmufgpvsobrotj
Wtbmvxkzva,gbmutgavt,gpkookqu gvgwmrokakwmtgbmvbgqvagvoogiklbufwovbrkl,
Akizvbuagklugbmvbgqvagvoogikl sibgvl gvibrkl;gWovbkgpksl gvgfuvlg.ubqrhb
bmugbqk;g.sbgbmutgklotgavtgbmragpkzgbmugavcugkpgbvocrlxjggBmugbzsu
bufwuzvfulbgragpksl grlgAkizvbua;gvl ,gWovbkgragfsimgfkzugAkizvbrigbmvl
Wtbmvxkzri,gvl grbg.uikfuagmrfg.ubbuzjggQmulgRg vliu,gRg vliu;gqmulgR
aouuw,gRgaouuwjggLvt,gqmulgRgqvocgvoklugrlgvg.uvsbrpsogkzimvz ,grpgft
bmksxmbagvzugakfugwvzbgkpgbmugbrfugbvculgswgqrbmguhbuzlvogkiiszzuliua,
Rgakfugwvzbgkpgbmugbrfugivoogbmufg.vicgvxvrlgbkgftgqvoc,gbkgbmugkzimvz ,
bkgbmugaquubluaagkpgbmvbgakorbs u,gvl gbkgftauopj

Lvbszugmvagfkbmuz-orcugk.auznu gbmra,gbmvbgbmugvibrklagamugmvagulykrlu 
sagpkzgkszgluiuaarbtgamkso g.ugvoakgwouvaszv.ougbkgsa;gvl gamugrlnrbuagsa
bkgbmuf,glkbgklotg.tgzuvakl,g.sbgvoakg.tgvwwubrbu,gvl g‘bragrlysabriugbk
rlpzrlxugmuzgovqajggQmulgRgauugvorcugIvuavzgvl gVouhvl uz,grlgbmugfr ab
kpgmragxzuvbuabg.sarluaa,gakgpsootgulyktgmsfvlgvl gikzwkzvogwouvaszua,gR
 kglkbgavtgbmvbgmugzuovhu gmragfrl :gRgavtgbmvbgmugabzulxbmulu grb,g.t
nrxkszgkpgikszvxugas.yuibrlxgbmkaugnrkoulbgufwoktfulbagvl gov.kzrksa
bmksxmbagbkgbmugkz rlvztgsavxugkpgorpu:gqrau,gmv gmug.uorunu gbmugovab
qvagmragkz rlvzt,gbmugprzabgmraguhbzvkz rlvzt,gnkivbrkljggQugvzugxzuvb
pkkoajgg“Mugmvagwvaau gmragorpugrlgr ouluaa,”gavtgqu:g“Rgmvnug klu
lkbmrlxgbk- vtj”ggQmvb?gmvnugtksglkbgornu ?ggbmvbgraglkbgklotgbmu
psl vfulbvo,g.sbgbmugfkabgroosabzrksa,gkpgtkszgkiiswvbrklajgg“Mv gRg.uul
wsbgbkgbmugfvlvxufulbgkpgxzuvbgvppvrza,gRgamkso gmvnugfv ugrbgauulgqmvbgR
ikso g kj”gg“Mvnugtksgclkqlgmkqgbkgfu rbvbugvl gfvlvxugtkszgorpu?ggtks
mvnugwuzpkzfu gbmugxzuvbuabgqkzcgkpgvooj”ggRlgkz uzgbkgamuqgvl g unuokw
muzauop,glvbszugluu agklotgpkzbslu;gamuguesvootgfvlrpuabagmuzauopgrlgvoo
abvxua,gvl g.umrl gvgiszbvrlgvagquoogvagqrbmksbgklujggMvnugtksgclkqlgmkq
bkgzuxsovbugtkszgikl sib,gtksgmvnug klugvgxzuvbg uvogfkzugbmvlgmugqmkgmva
ikfwkau g.kkcajggMvnugtksgclkqlgmkqgbkgbvcugzuwkau,gtksgmvnug klugfkzu
bmvlgmugqmkgmvagbvculgufwrzuagvl girbruaj

Bmugxokzrksagfvabuzwruiugkpgfvlgragbkgornugbkgwszwkau;gvoogkbmuzgbmrlxa:
bkgzurxl,gbkgovtgswgbzuvaszu,gbkg.sro ,gvzug.sbgorbbougvwwul riuagvl 
wzkwajggRgbvcugwouvaszugrlgauurlxgvgxuluzvogkpgvlgvzft,gvbgbmugpkkbgkpgv
.zuvimgmugragwzuaulbotgbkgvaavsob,gxrnugmrfauopgswgulbrzugvl gpzuugvb
 rlluz,gbkgbvocgvl g.ugfuzztgqrbmgmragpzrul ajggVl g.zsbsa,gqmulgmuvnul
vl guvzbmgquzugiklawrzu gvxvrlabgmrfgvl gbmugZkfvlgor.uzbt,gabuvorlxgakfu
mkszgkpgbmuglrxmbgpzkfgmragzksl agbkgzuv gvl gaivlgWkot.rsagrlgvoo
auiszrbtjgg‘Bragpkzgorbbougaksoa,g.szru gsl uzgbmugqurxmbgkpgvppvrza,glkb
pzkfgbmufgbkgclkqgmkqgiouvzotgbkg raulxvxugbmufauonua,glkbgbkgclkqgmkqgbk
ovtgbmufgvar ugvl gbvcugbmufgswgvxvrl:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Kgpkzbua,gwuykzvesugwvaar
ggggggggggggggggggggFuisfgavuwugnrzr!gglslignrlkgwuoorbugiszva
ggggggggggggggggggggIzvagrlxulagrbuzv.rfsagvueskzj”

ggggg[“Kg.zvnugawrzrba,gqmkgmvnugkpbulgasppuzu gakzzkqgqrbmgfu,g zrlc
gggggivzuagvqvt;gbkfkzzkqgqugqrooguf.vzcgkliugfkzugklgbmugnvabgauvj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grjg7,g30j]

Qmubmuzgrbg.ugrlgyuabgkzguvzluab,gbmvbgbmugbmukokxrivogvl gAkz.kllrivo
qrlu,gvl gbmurzgpuvaba,gvzugbszlu grlbkgvgwzknuz.,gRgprl grbgzuvaklv.ou
bmutgamkso g rlugakgfsimgfkzugikffk rksaotgvl gwouvavlbot,gvagbmutgmvnu
wzkprbv.otgvl gauzrksaotgufwoktu gbmugfkzlrlxgrlgbmuguhuziraugkpgbmurz
aimkkoajggBmugiklairuliugkpgmvnrlxgquoogawulbgbmugkbmuzgmksza,gragbmu
ysabgvl gavnksztgavsiugkpgbmug rlluz-bv.oujggBmugavxuagornu gvpbuzgbmvb
fvlluz;gvl gbmvbgrlrfrbv.ougufsovbrklgbkgnrzbsu,gqmrimgvabklramuagsag.kbm
rlgbmugklugvl gbmugkbmuzgIvbk,gbmvbgmsfkszgkpgbmurza,gakgaunuzugvagunul
bkg.ugrfwkzbslvbu,gxulbotgas.frbagrbauopgvl gtruo agbkgbmugovqagkpgbmu
msfvlgikl rbrkl,gkpgNulsagvl g.viimsa;gviikz rlxgbkgbmugwzuiuwbagkpgbmurz
auib,gbmvbgzuesrzugbmugwuzpuibgavxugbkg.ugvaguhwuzbgvl grlbuoorxulbgrl
bmugsaugkpglvbszvogwouvaszuagvagrlgvoogkbmuzg sbruagkpgorpu:

ggggggggggggggg“Isrgikzgavwrvb,gurgubgavwrvbgwvovbsaj”

Zuovhvbrklgvl gpvirorbt,gfubmrlca,gqkl uzpsootgmklkszgvl g.uabg.uikfugv
abzklxgvl gxuluzksagaksojggUwvfrlkl vag r glkbgbmrlcgbmvbgbkgbvcugwvzb,
vl gbmvbgmuvzbrot,grlgaklxagvl gawkzbagvl g vliuagqrbmgbmugtkslxgfulgkp
mragirbt,gquzugbmrlxagbmvbgrlgvltgqvtg uzkxvbu gpzkfgbmugmklkszgkpgmra
xokzrksagnribkzruagvl gbmugwuzpuibgwszrbtgkpgfvlluzagbmvbgqvagrlgmrfj
Vl gvfklxabgakgfvltgv frzv.ougvibrklagkpgAirwrkgbmugxzvl pvbmuz,gvgwuzakl
qkzbmtgbkg.ugzuwsbu gkpgvgmuvnulotguhbzvibrkl,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgbmvb
xrnuagmrfgvgxzuvbuzgxzviugbmvlgbkgauugmrfgivzuouaaotgvl gimro ramot
bzrporlxgvbgxvbmuzrlxgvl gauouibrlxgikicougamuooa,gvl gwovtrlxgvbgeskrba,

ggggg[Bmragxvfu,gvagbmug“ ribrkllvrzug ugBzunksh”g uaizr.uagrb,gragklu
gggggqmuzurlgbqkgwuzaklagiklbul gqmrimgkpgbmufgamvoogakkluabgwricgswgakfu
gggggk.yuibj]

vfsarlxgvl gbricorlxgmrfauopgrlgzuwzuaulbrlxg.tgqzrbrlxgrlgikfu ruagbmu
fuvluabgvl gfkabgwkwsovzgvibrklagkpgfuljggVl gmragmuv gpsoogkpgbmvb
qkl uzpsogulbuzwzraugkpgMvllr.vogvl gVpzriv,gnrarbrlxgbmugaimkkoagrl
Arirot,gvl gvbbul rlxgwmrokakwmrivogouibszua,gbkgbmuguhbulbgkpgvzfrlxgbmu
.orl gulntgkpgmragulufruagvbgZkfujggLkzgragbmuzugvltbmrlxgfkzugzufvzcv.ou
rlgAkizvbuagbmvlgbmvb,gko gvagmugqva,gmugpksl gbrfugbkgfvcugmrfauop
bvsxmbg vlirlxgvl gwovtrlxgswklgrlabzsfulba,gvl gbmksxmbgrbgbrfugquoo
awulbjggBmragavfugfvlgqvagauulgrlgvlguiabvat,gabvl rlxgswklgmragpuubgv
qmkoug vtgvl gvglrxmbgbkxubmuz,grlgbmugwzuauliugkpgvoogbmugXzuirvlgvzft,
aszwzrau gvl gv.akz.u g.tgakfugwzkpksl gbmksxmbjggMugqvagbmugprzab,
vfklxabgakgfvltgnvorvlbgfulgkpgbmugvzft,gbkgzslgbkgbmugzuorupgkp
Voir.rv ua,gkwwzuaau gqrbmgbmuguluft,gbkgamruo gmrfgqrbmgmragkqlg.k t,
vl g raulxvxugmrfgpzkfgbmugizkq g.tgv.akosbugpkziugkpgvzfajggRbgqvagmu
qmk,grlgbmug uorvlg.vbbou,gzvrau gvl gavnu gHulkwmklgqmulgpvooulgpzkfgmra
mkzau;gvl gqmk,gvfklxabgvoogbmugwukwougkpgVbmula,gulzvxu gvagmugqvagvbgak
slqkzbmtgvgawuibviou,gprzabgwzuaulbu gmrfauopgbkgzuaisugBmuzvfulua,gqmkf
bmugbmrzbtgbtzvlbagquzugouv rlxgbkguhuisbrklg.tgbmurzgavbuoorbua,gvl 
 uarabu glkbgpzkfgmrag.ko gulbuzwzraug.sbgvbgbmugzufklabzvliugkp
Bmuzvfuluagmrfauop,gbmksxmgmugqvagklotgpkookqu g.tgbqkgfkzugrlgvoojggMu
qvagauul,gqmulgikszbu g.tgvg.uvsbtgqrbmgqmkfgmugqvagrlgoknu,gbkgfvrlbvrl
vbgluu gvgaunuzugv.abrluliujggMugqvagauulgunuzgbkgxkgbkgbmugqvza,gvl 
qvocgswklgriu,gqrbmg.vzugpuub;gbkgquvzgbmugavfugzk.u,gqrlbuzgvl gasffuz;
bkgaszwvaagvoogmragikfwvlrklagrlgwvbruliugkpg.uvzrlxgmvz amrwa,gvl gbk
uvbglkgfkzugvbgvgpuvabgbmvlgvbgmragkqlgwzrnvbug rlluzjggMugqvagauul,gpkz
aunul-vl -bqulbtgtuvzagbkxubmuz,gbkgul szugmslxuz,gwknuzbt,gbmu
rl kirorbtgkpgmragimro zul,gvl gbmuglvroagkpgmragqrpu,gqrbmgbmugavfu
ikslbulvliujggVl ,grlgbmugul ,givosflt,gbtzvllt,grfwzraklfulb,gpubbuza,
vl gwkrakljgg.sbgqvagbmragfvlgk.orxu gbkg zrlcgpsoog.sfwuzag.tgvltgzsou
kpgirnrorbt?ggmugqvagvoakgbmugfvlgkpgbmugqmkougvzftgqrbmgqmkfgbmu
v nvlbvxugrlg zrlcrlx,gzufvrlu jggVl gmuglunuzgzupsau gbkgwovtgvb
lkraubbua,glkzgbkgzr ugbmugmk..t-mkzaugqrbmgimro zul,gvl grbg.uivfugmrf
quoo;gpkzgvoogvibrkla,gavtagwmrokakwmt,guesvootg.uikfugvl guesvootgmklksz
vgqraugfvljggQugmvnugulksxmgqmuzuqrbmvogbkg kgrb,gvl gqugksxmbglunuzgbk
.ugquvztgkpgwzuaulbrlxgbmugrfvxugkpgbmragxzuvbgfvlgrlgvoogbmugwvbbuzla
vl gpkzfagkpgwuzpuibrkljggBmuzugvzugnuztgpuqguhvfwouagkpgorpu,gpsoogvl 
wszu;gvl gqugqzklxgkszgbuvimrlxgunuztg vt,gbkgwzkwkaugbkgkszauonuagbmkau
bmvbgvzugquvcgvl grfwuzpuib,gaivziugxkk gpkzgvltgklugauznriu,gvl gzvbmuz
wsoogsag.vic;gikzzswbuzagzvbmuzgbmvlgikzzuibkzagkpgfvlluzajggBmugwukwou
 uiurnugbmufauonua;gvgfvlgxkuagfsimgfkzuguvarotgrl uu g.tgbmugul a,gqmuzu
bmuguhbzufrbtgauznuagpkzgvg.ksl ,gvgabkw,gvl gxsr u,gbmvlg.tgbmugfr  ou
qvt,govzxugvl gkwul;gvl gviikz rlxgbkgvzb,gfkzugbmvlgviikz rlxgbkglvbszu:
.sbgqrbmvogfsimgouaaglk.otgvl gikfful v.otj

Xzuvbluaagkpgaksogiklarabaglkbgakgfsimgrlgfkslbrlxgvl grlgwzuaarlx
pkzqvz ,gvagrlgclkqrlxgmkqgbkgxknuzlgvl girzisfaizr.ugrbauop;grbgbvcua
unuztbmrlxgpkzgxzuvb,gbmvbgragulksxm,gvl g ufklabzvbuagrbauopgrl
wzupuzzrlxgfk uzvbugbkgufrlulbgbmrlxajggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgprlugvl 
ouxrbrfvbugvagquoogvl g sotgbkgwovtgbmugfvl;glkzgairuliugakgvz sksagva
quoogvl glvbszvootgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgornugbmragorpu;gvl gkpgvoogbmu
rlprzfrbruagqugmvnu,g‘bragbmugfkabg.vz.vzksagbkg uawraugkszg.urlxj

Qmkunuzgmvagvgfrl gbkgrakovbugmragawrzrb,gqmulgbmug.k tgragroogvbguvau,
bkgwzuauznugrbgpzkfgbmugiklbvxrkl,goubgmrfg.tgvoogfuvlag kgrbgrpgmugivl:
.sbgkbmuzqraugoubgmrfgklgbmugiklbzvztgpvnkszgvl gvaarabgrb,gvl glkb
zupsaugbkgwvzbrirwvbugkpgrbaglvbszvogwouvaszuagqrbmgvgiklysxvo
ikfwoviulit,g.zrlxrlxgbkgrb,grpgrbg.ugbmugqrauz,gfk uzvbrkl,gouabg.t
rl raizubrklgbmutgamkso gxubgiklpksl u gqrbmg rawouvaszujggRlbufwuzvliu
ragbmugwuabgkpgwouvaszu;gvl gbufwuzvliugraglkbgrbagaikszxu,g.sbgzvbmuz
rbagauvaklrlxjggUshk sa,gqmkgbmuzurlguabv.oramu gbmugaknuzurxlgxkk ,gvl 
mragikfwvlrkla,gqmkgaubgakgmrxmgvgnvosugswklgrb,gbvabu grbgrlgrbagfkab
imvzfrlxgaquubluaa,g.tgbmugfuvlagkpgbufwuzvliu,gqmrimgrlgbmufgqva
arlxsovzgvl guhufwovztj

Rgulykrlgftgaksogbkgokkcgswklgwvrlgvl gwouvaszugqrbmgvlgutuguesvoot
zuxsovbu :

gggggggggg“Uk ufgulrfgnrbrkguabguppsarkgvlrfrgrlgovubrbrv
ggggggggggeskgrlg kokzugiklbzvibrk,”

ggggg[“Pkzgpzkfgbmugavfugrfwuzpuibrklgvzrauagbmuguhwvlarklgkpgbmu
gggggfrl grlgwouvaszugvl grbagiklbzvibrklgrlgakzzkqj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,gBsaijggEsvuaj,grnjg31j]

vl guesvootgprzf;g.sbgbmugklugxvrotgvl gbmugkbmuzgaunuzuot,gvl gakgpvzgva
rbgragv.ou,gbkg.ugivzupsogbkguhbrlxsramgbmugklugvagbkguhbul gbmugkbmuzj
Bmugys xrlxgzrxmbotgkpgxkk g.zrlxagvoklxgqrbmgrbgbmugys xrlxgaksl otgkp
unro:gwvrlgmvagakfubmrlxgkpgbmugrlunrbv.ougrlgrbagbul uzg.uxrllrlxa,gvl 
wouvaszugakfubmrlxgkpgbmugunrbv.ougrlgrbaguhiuaarnugul jggWovbkgikswoua
bmufgbkxubmuz,gvl gqrooagbmvbgrbgamkso g.uguesvootgbmugkppriugkp
pkzbrbs ugbkgprxmbgvxvrlabgwvrl,gvl gvxvrlabgbmugrffk uzvbugvl gimvzfrlx
.ovl ramfulbagkpgwouvaszu:gbmutgvzugbqkgpkslbvrla,gpzkfgqmrimgqmkunuz
 zvqa,gqmulgvl gvagfsimgvagmugluu a,gqmubmuzgirbt,gfvl,gkzg.uvab,gragnuzt
pkzbslvbujggBmugprzabgragbkg.ugbvculgfu rirlvootgvl gswklgluiuaarbt,gvl 
fkzugaivlbrot;gbmugkbmuzgpkzgbmrzab,g.sbglkbgbk,g zslculluaajggWvrl,
wouvaszu,goknugvl gmvbzu gvzugbmugprzabgbmrlxagbmvbgvgimro gragaular.ou
kp:grp,gqmulgzuvaklgikfua,gbmutgvwwotgrbgbkgbmufauonua,gbmvbgragnrzbsuj

Rgmvnugvgawuirvognkiv.sovztgkpgftgkql;gRg“wvaagvqvtgbrfu,”gqmulgrbgragroo
vl gsluvat,g.sbgqmulg‘bragxkk gRg kglkbgwvaagrbgvqvt:g“Rgbvabugrbgknuz
vxvrlgvl gv muzugbkgrb”;gklugfsabgzslgknuzgbmugroogvl gaubbougswklgbmu
xkk jggBmragkz rlvztgwmzvaugkpgwvabrfu,gvl gwvaarlxgvqvtgbmugbrfu,
zuwzuaulbagbmugsavxugkpgbmkaugqraugakzbgkpgwukwougqmkgbmrlcgbmutgivllkb
 kg.ubbuzgqrbmgbmurzgornuagbmvlgbkgoubgbmufgzslgksbgvl gaor ugvqvt,gwvaa
bmufgknuz,gvl g.vsocgbmuf,gvl ,gvagfsimgvagbmutgivl,grxlkzugbmufgvl gamsl
bmufgvagvgbmrlxgkpgbzks.ouakfugvl giklbufwbr.ougesvorbt:g.sbgRgclkqgrbgbk
.ugvlkbmuzgcrl gkpgbmrlx,gvl gprl grbg.kbmgnvosv.ougvl gikffk rksa,gunul
rlgrbagovbuabg uivt,gqmuzurlgRglkqgulyktgrb;gvl glvbszugmvag uornuzu grb
rlbkgkszgmvl agrlgasimgvl gakgpvnkszv.ougirzisfabvliuagbmvbgqugmvnugklot
kszauonuagbkg.ovfugrpgrbg.ugbzks.ouakfugbkgsa,gkzguaivwuagsa
slwzkprbv.ot:

ggggg“Absobrgnrbvgrlxzvbvguab,gbzuwr vguab,gbkbvgrlgpsbszsfgpuzbszj”

ggggg[“Bmugorpugkpgvgpkkogragbmvlcouaa,gbrfkzksa,gvl gqmkootg.ulbgswkl
gggggbmugpsbszuj”--Auluiv,gUw:,g15j]

LunuzbmuouaagRgikfwkaugftauopgbkgokaugfrlugqrbmksbgzuxzub;g.sbgqrbmvogva
vgbmrlxgbmvbgragwuzramv.oug.tgrbagikl rbrkl,glkbgbmvbgrbgfkouabagkz
vllktagfujggLkzg kuagrbgwzkwuzotgquoog.uikfugvltglkbgbkg.ug rawouvau 
qmulgbmutg ru,guhiuwbrlxgasimgvagvzugwouvau gbkgornujggBmuzugragxkk 
msa.vl ztgrlgulyktrlxgrb:gRgulyktgrbg ks.ougbkgqmvbgkbmuzag k;gpkzgbmu
fuvaszugkpgrbagpzsrbrklg uwul agswklgkszgfkzugkzgouaagvwworivbrklgbkgrbj
ImrupotgbmvbgRgwuziurnugfrlugbkg.ugakgamkzbgrlgbrfu,gRg uarzugbkguhbul 
rbgrlgqurxmb;gRgqroogabkwgbmugwzkfwbrbs ugkpgrbagporxmbg.tgbmu
wzkfwbrbs ugkpgftgxzvaw;gvl g.tgbmugnrxkszgkpgsarlxgrbgikfwulavbugbmu
awuu gkpgrbagzsllrlxgvqvtjggRlgwzkwkzbrklgvagbmugwkaauaarklgkpgorpugra
fkzugamkzb,gRgfsabgfvcugrbgakgfsimg uuwuzgvl gpsoouzj

Kbmuzagpuuogbmugwouvaszugkpgiklbulbgvl gwzkawuzrbt;gRgpuuogrbgbkk,gva
quoogvagbmut,g.sbglkbgvagrbgwvaauagvl gaorwag.t;gklugamkso gabs t,gbvabu,
vl gzsfrlvbugswklgrbgbkgzul uzgikl rxlgbmvlcagbkgMrfgqmkgxzvlbagrbgbkgsaj
Bmutgulyktgbmugkbmuzgwouvaszuagvagbmutg kgbmvbgkpgaouuw,gqrbmksbgclkqrlx
rbjggBkgbmugul gbmvbgunulgaouuwgrbauopgamkso glkbgakgabswr otguaivwugpzkf
fu,gRgmvnugpkzfuzotgivsau gftauopgbkg.ug rabsz.u grlgftgaouuw,gakgbmvbgR
frxmbgbmug.ubbuzgvl gfkzugaular.otgzuoramgvl gbvabugrbjggRgwkl uzgqrbm
ftauopgkpgiklbulb;gRg kglkbgacrfgknuz,g.sbgaksl grb;gvl gRg.ul gft
zuvakl,glkqgxzkqlgwuznuzaugvl gwuunram,gbkgulbuzbvrlgrbjgg kgRgprl 
ftauopgrlgvltgivofgikfwkau luaa?ggragbmuzugvltgwouvaszugbmvbgbricouagfu?
Rg kglkbgasppuzgrbgbkg vootgqrbmgftgaulauagklot;gRgvaakirvbugftgaksogbk
rbgbkk:glkbgbmuzugbkgulxvxugrbauop,g.sbgbmuzurlgbkgbvcug uorxmb;glkb
bmuzugbkgokaugrbauop,g.sbgbkg.ugwzuaulbgbmuzu;gvl gRgufwoktgrb,gklgrba
wvzb,gbkgnruqgrbauopgrlgbmragwzkawuzksagabvbu,gbkgqurxmgvl gvwwzuirvbu
rbagmvwwrluaagvl gbkgvfworptgrbjggRbgzuicklagmkqgfsimgrbgabvl agrl u.bu 
bkgXk gbmvbgrbagiklairuliugvl gbmugrlbuabrlugwvaarklagvzugrlgzuwkau;gbmvb
rbgmvagbmug.k tgrlgrbaglvbszvog rawkarbrkl,gkz uzotgvl gikfwubulbot
ulyktrlxgbmugakpbgvl gakkbmrlxgpslibrklag.tgqmrimgMu,gkpgMragxzviugra
wouvau gbkgikfwulavbugbmugasppuzrlxagqmuzuqrbmgMragysabriugvbgMragxkk 
wouvaszugimvabrauagsajggRbgzupouibagmkqgxzuvbgvg.uluprbgrbgragbkg.ugak
wzkbuibu ,gbmvbgqmrimgqvtgakunuzgrbgbszlagrbagutugbmugmuvnulagvzugivof
vzksl grbjggLkg uarzu,glkgpuvz,glkg ks.b,gbzks.ouagbmugvrz;glk
 rpprisobt,gwvab,gwzuaulb,gkzgbk,gikfu,gbmvbgrbagrfvxrlvbrklgfvtglkbgwvaa
knuzgqrbmksbgkppuliujggBmragiklar uzvbrklgbvcuagxzuvbgosabzugpzkfgbmu
ikfwvzraklgkpg rppuzulbgikl rbrklajggAkgrbgragbmvbgRgwzuaulbgbkgft
bmksxmb,grlgvgbmksavl gvawuiba,gbmkaugqmkfgpkzbslugkzgbmurzgkqlguzzkz
ivzzruagvqvtgvl gbkzfulbajggVl ,gvxvrl,gbmkaugqmk,gfkzugorcugbkgfu,gak
luxorxulbotgvl grliszrksaotgzuiurnugbmurzgxkk gpkzbslujggBmkaugvzugpkoca
qmkgawul gbmurzgbrfugrl uu ;gbmutgwvaagknuzgbmugwzuaulbgvl gbmvbgqmrim
bmutgwkaauaa,gbkgqvrbgklgmkwu,gvl gpkzgamv kqagvl gnvrlgrfvxuagqmrim
pvlitgwsbag.upkzugbmuf:

ggggggggg“Fkzbugk.rbvgesvouagpvfvguabgnkorbvzugprxszva,
ggggggggggVsbgesvugakwrbkag uos slbgakflrvgaulasa:”

ggggg[“Asimgpkzfagvagbmkaugqmrimgvpbuzg uvbmgvzugzuwsbu gbkgmknuzgv.ksb,
gggggkzg zuvfagqmrimg uos ugbmugaulauagrlgaouuwj”--VUlur ,ghjg641j]

qmrimgmvabulgvl gwzkoklxgbmurzgporxmb,gviikz rlxgvagbmutgvzugwszasu j
Bmugpzsrbgvl gul gkpgbmurzgwszasrbgragbkgwszasu;gvagVouhvl uzgavr ,gbmvb
bmugul gkpgmragov.kszgqvagbkgov.ksz:

gggggggggg“Lrogvibsfgizu ula,gisfgesr gaswuzuaaubgvxul sfj”

ggggg[“Bmrlcrlxglkbmrlxg klu,grpgvltbmrlxgzufvrlu gbkg.ug kluj
ggggg--“Osivl,grrjg657j]

Pkzgftgwvzbgbmul,gRgoknugorpugvl gisobrnvbugrb,gasimgvagrbgmvagwouvau 
Xk gbkg.uabkqgrbgswklgsajggRg kglkbg uarzugrbgamkso g.ugqrbmksbgbmu
luiuaarbtgkpguvbrlxgvl g zrlcrlx;gvl gRgamkso gbmrlcgrbgvglkbgouaa
uhisav.ougpvrorlxgbkgqramgrbgmv g.uulgbqriugvagoklx;

ggggg“Avwrulag rnrbrvzsfglvbszvorsfgesvuarbkzgviuzzrfsa:”

ggggg[“Vgqraugfvlgragbmugcuuluabgauucuzgpkzglvbszvogzrimuaj”
gggggg--Auluiv,gUwj,g119j]

lkzgbmvbgqugamkso gaswwkzbgkszauonuag.tgwsbbrlxgklotgvgorbbougkpgbmvb
 zsxgrlbkgkszgfksbma,g.tgqmrimgUwrfulr uagbkkcgvqvtgmragvwwubrbugvl gcuwb
mrfauopgvornu;glkzgbmvbgqugamkso gabswr otg.uxubgimro zulgqrbmgksz
prlxuzagkzgmuuoa,g.sbgzvbmuz;gqrbmgzunuzuliug.ugrbgawkcul,gbmvbgqugfrxmb
nkoswbsksaotg.uxubgbmufgqrbmgkszgprlxuzagvl gmuuoa;glkzgbmvbgbmug.k t
amkso g.ugqrbmksbg uarzugvl gqrbmksbgbrbroovbrkljggBmuaugvzugslxzvbupso
vl gqricu gikfwovrlbajggRgviiuwbgcrl ot,gvl gqrbmgxzvbrbs u,gqmvbglvbszu
mvag klugpkzgfu;gvfgquoogwouvau gqrbmgrb,gvl gwzks gkpgrbjggVgfvlg kua
qzklxgbkgbmvbgxzuvbgvl gkflrwkbulbgxrnuzgbkgzupsau,gvllso,gkzg raprxszu
mragxrpb:gvoogxkk luaagmrfauop,gmugmvagfv ugunuztbmrlxgxkk :

ggggg“Kflrvgesvugauisl sfglvbszvfgaslb,gvuabrfvbrklug rxlvgaslbj”

ggggg[“Voogbmrlxagbmvbgvzugviikz rlxgbkglvbszugvzugqkzbmtgkpguabuufj”
gggggg--Iriuzk,g ugPrlj,grrrjg6j]

Kpgwmrokakwmrivogkwrlrkla,gRgwzupuzv.otguf.zviugbmkaugbmvbgvzugfkab
akor ,gbmvbgragbkgavt,gbmugfkabgmsfvlgvl gfkabgkszgkql:gftg raikszaugra,
asrbv.ougbkgftgfvlluza,gokqgvl gmsf.ou:gwmrokakwmtgwovtagbmugimro ,gbkgft
bmrlcrlx,gqmulgrbgwsbagrbauopgswklgrbagUzxkagbkgwzuvimgbkgsagbmvbg‘bragv
.vz.vzksagvoorvliugbkgfvzztgbmug rnrlugqrbmgbmuguvzbmot,gbmugzuvaklv.ou
qrbmgbmugslzuvaklv.ou,gbmugaunuzugqrbmgbmugrl soxulb,gbmugmkluabgqrbmgbmu
 ramkluabjggBmvbgwouvaszugragvg.zsbramgesvorbt,gslqkzbmtgbkg.ugbvabu g.t
vgqraugfvl;gbmvbgbmugakougwouvaszugmuguhbzvibagpzkfgbmugulyktfulbgkpgv
pvrzgtkslxgqrpugragvgwouvaszugkpgmragiklairuliugbkgwuzpkzfgvlgvibrkl
viikz rlxgbkgkz uz,gvagbkgwsbgklgmrag.kkbagpkzgvgwzkprbv.ougykszlutj
Km,gbmvbgrbagpkookquzagmv glkgfkzugzrxmb,glkzgluznua,glkzgnrxkszgrl
xubbrlxgbmurzgqrnua’gfvr ulmuv agbmvlgrlgrbagouaaklj

BmragraglkbgqmvbgAkizvbuagavta,gqmkgragrbagfvabuzgvl gksza:gmugnvosua,gva
mugksxmb,g.k rotgwouvaszu;g.sbgmugwzupuzagbmvbgkpgbmugfrl gvagmvnrlxgfkzu
pkziu,giklabvlit,gpvirorbt,gnvzrubt,gvl g rxlrbtjggBmra,gviikz rlxgbk
mrf,gxkuag.tglkgfuvlagvoklu--mugraglkbgakgpvlbvabri--.sbgklotgrbgxkua
przab;gbufwuzvliugqrbmgmrfgragbmugfk uzvbzrh,glkbgbmugv nuzavztgkp
wouvaszujggLvbszugragvgxulbougxsr u,g.sbglkbgfkzugaquubgvl gxulbougbmvl
wzs ulbgvl gysabj

gggggggggg“Rlbzvl sfguabgrlgzuzsfglvbszvf,gubgwulrbsa,
ggggggggggesr guvgwkabsoub,gwuznr ul sfj”

ggggg[“Vgfvlgfsabgauvzimgrlbkgbmuglvbszugkpgbmrlxa,gvl gpsootguhvfrlu
gggggqmvbgamugzuesrzuaj”--Iriuzk,g ugPrlj,gNjg16j]

Rgmslbgvpbuzgmuzgpkkbgbmzksxmksb:gqugmvnugiklpksl u grbgqrbmgvzbrprirvo
bzviua;gvl gbmvbgviv ufrigvl gwuzrwvbubrigxkk ,gqmrimgrag“bkgornu
viikz rlxgbkgrb,”g.uikfuagklgbmragviikslbgmvz gbkgorfrbgvl guhwovrl;gvl 
bmvbgkpgbmugAbkria,glurxm.kszgbkgrb,gqmrimgrag“bkgiklaulbgbkglvbszuj”
gRagrbglkbgvlguzzkzgbkguabuufgvltgvibrklagouaagqkzbmt,g.uivsaugbmutgvzu
luiuaavzt?ggVl gtubgbmutgqrooglkbgbvcugrbgksbgkpgftgmuv ,gbmvbgrbgraglkb
vgnuztgiklnulrulbgfvzzrvxugkpgwouvaszugqrbmgluiuaarbt,gqrbmgqmrim,gavta
vlgvlirulb,gbmugxk agvoqvtagiklawrzujggBkgqmvbgul g kgqug rafuf.uzg.t
 rnkziugvg.sro rlxgslrbu g.tgakgiokaugvl g.zkbmuzotgvgikzzuawkl uliu?
Oubgsa,gklgbmugiklbzvzt,giklprzfgrbg.tgfsbsvogkppriua;goubgbmugfrl gzksau
vl gesriculgbmugmuvnrluaagkpgbmug.k t,gvl gbmug.k tgabvtgvl gprhgbmu
ounrbtgkpgbmugakso:

ggggg“Esr,gnuosbgasffsfg.klsf,govs vbgvlrfviglvbszvf,gub,gbvlesvfgfvosf,
ggggglvbszvfgivzlragviisavb,gwzkpuib gubgvlrfvfgivzlvbrbuzgvwwubrb,gub
gggggivzlufgivzlvorbuzgpsxrb;gesklrvfgr gnvlrbvbugaulbrbgmsfvla,glkl
gggggnuzrbvbug rnrlvj”

ggggg[“Mugqmkgikfful agbmuglvbszugkpgbmugaksogvagbmugaswzufugxkk ,gvl 
gggggikl uflagbmuglvbszugkpgbmugpouamgvagunro,gvbgkliug.kbmgivzlvoot
ggggg uarzuagbmugakso,gvl givzlvootgporuagbmugpouam,g.uivsaugmugpuuoa
gggggbmsagpzkfgmsfvlgnvlrbt,glkbgpzkfg rnrlugbzsbmj”
gggggg--AbjgVsxsabrl,g ugIrnrbjgg ur,ghrnjgg5j]

RlgbmragwzuaulbgbmvbgXk gmvagfv ugsa,gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgslqkzbmtgkszgivzu;
qugabvl gviikslbv.ougpkzgrbgunulgbkgvgmvrz;gvl gragrbglkbgvgikffraarklgbk
fvl,gbkgikl sibgfvlgviikz rlxgbkgmragikl rbrkl;g‘braguhwzuaa,gwovrl,gvl 
bmugnuztgwzrlirwvogklu,gvl gbmugIzuvbkzgmvagauzrksaotgvl gabzribot
wzuaizr.u grbgbkgsajggVsbmkzrbtgmvagwkquzgklotgbkgqkzcgrlgzuxvz gbk
fvbbuzagkpgikffklgys xfulb,gvl gragkpgfkzugqurxmbgrlgvgpkzurxlgovlxsvxu;
bmuzupkzugoubgsagvxvrlgimvzxugvbgrbgrlgbmragwoviu:

ggggg“Absobrbrvugwzkwzrsfgesraglklg rhuzrb,grxlvnugubgiklbsfvirbuz
gggggpviuzu,gesvugpvirul vgaslb;gubgvorkgikzwsagrfwuoouzu,gvorkgvlrfsf;
ggggg rabzvmresugrlbuzg rnuzaraarfkagfkbsa?”

ggggg[“Qmkgqrooglkbgavt,gbmvbgrbgragbmugwzkwuzbtgkpgpkoot,gaokbmpsootgvl 
gggggiklbsfvirksaotgbkgwuzpkzfgqmvbgragbkg.ug klu,gvl gbkg.ul gbmug.k t
gggggklugqvtgvl gbmugfrl gvlkbmuz,gvl gbkg.ug rabzvibu g.ubqrhbgqmkoot
ggggg rppuzulbgfkbrkla?”--Auluiv,gUwj,g74j]

Bkgfvcugbmragvwwvzulb,gvacgvltgklu,gakfug vt,gbkgbuoogtksgqmvbgqmrfarua
vl grfvxrlvbrklagmugwsbgrlbkgmragwvbu,gswklgbmugviikslbgkpgqmrimgmu
 rnuzbu gmragbmksxmbagpzkfgvgxkk gfuvo,gvl gzuxzubagbmugbrfugmugawul agrl
uvbrlx;gtksgqroogprl gbmuzugraglkbmrlxgakgrlarwr grlgvoogbmug ramuagvb
tkszgbv.ougvagbmragqraugfu rbvbrklgkpgmrag(pkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgqugmv 
.ubbuzgaouuwgbmvlgqvcugbkgbmugwszwkaugqugqvcu);gvl gbmvbgmrag raikszaua
vl glkbrklagvzuglkbgqkzbmgbmugqkzabgfuaagbmuzujggBmksxmgbmutgquzugbmu
uiabvaruagkpgVzimrfu uagmrfauop,gqmvbgbmul?ggRg kglkbgmuzugawuvcgkp,glkz
frhgqrbmgbmugzv..ougkpgsagkz rlvztgful,gvl gbmugnvlrbtgkpgbmugbmksxmba
vl g uarzuagbmvbg rnuzbgsa,gbmkaugnuluzv.ougaksoa,guounvbu g.tgbmugvz ksz
kpg unkbrklgvl gzuorxrkl,gbkgvgiklabvlbgvl giklairulbrksagfu rbvbrklgkp
 rnrlugbmrlxa,gqmk,g.tgbmuguluzxtgkpgnrnr gvl gnumufulbgmkwu,
wzuwkaauaarlxgbmugsaugkpgbmugubuzlvoglkszramfulb,gbmugprlvogvrfgvl govab
abuwgkpgImzrabrvlg uarzua,gbmugakougiklabvlb,gvl grlikzzswbr.ougwouvaszu,
 ra vrlgbkgvwwotgbmufauonuagbkgkszgluiuaarbksa,gposr ,gvl gvf.rxsksa
iklnulruliua,gvl guvarotgzuarxlgbkgbmug.k tgbmugivzugvl gsaugkpgaulasvo
vl gbufwkzvogwvabszu;g‘bragvgwzrnrouxu gabs tjgg.ubquulgkszauonua,gRgmvnu
unuzgk.auznu gaswuziuouabrvogkwrlrklagvl gas.buzzvluvlgfvlluzagbkg.ugkp
arlxsovzgviikz j

VUakw,gbmvbgxzuvbgfvl,gavqgmragfvabuzgwraagvagmugqvocu :g“Qmvbgbmul,”
gavr gmu,g“fsabgqug zkwgvagqugzsl?”ggOubgsagfvlvxugkszgbrfu;gbmuzugtub
zufvrlagvgxzuvbg uvogr ougvl groogufwoktu jggBmugfrl gmvaglkbgqroorlxot
kbmuzgmkszagulksxmgqmuzurlgbkg kgrbag.sarluaa,gqrbmksbg ravaakirvbrlx
rbauopgpzkfgbmug.k t,grlgbmvbgorbbougawviugrbgfsabgmvnugpkzgrba
luiuaarbtjggBmutgqkso gwsbgbmufauonuagksbgkpgbmufauonua,gvl guaivwugpzkf
.urlxgfuljggRbgragpkoot;grlabuv gkpgbzvlapkzfrlxgbmufauonuagrlbkgvlxuoa,
bmutgbzvlapkzfgbmufauonuagrlbkg.uvaba;grlabuv gkpguounvbrlx,gbmutgovt
bmufauonuagokquzjggBmuaugbzvlaiul ulbvogmsfkszagvppzrxmbgfu,gorcugmrxm
vl grlviiuaar.ougwoviua;gvl glkbmrlxgragmvz gpkzgfugbkg rxuabgrlgbmugorpu
kpgAkizvbuag.sbgmraguiabvaruagvl gikffslrivbrklgqrbmg ufkla;glkbmrlxgak
msfvlgrlgWovbkgvagbmvbgpkzgqmrimgbmutgavtgmugqvagivoou g rnrlu;gvl gkp
kszgairuliua,gbmkaugauufgbkg.ugbmugfkabgbuzzuabzrvogvl gokqgbmvbgvzu
mrxmuabgfkslbu ;gvl gRgprl glkbmrlxgakgmsf.ougvl gfkzbvogrlgbmugorpugkp
Vouhvl uzgvagmragpvliruagv.ksbgmragrffkzbvoravbrkljggWmrokbvagwouvavlbot
esrwwu gmrfgrlgmragvlaquz;gmugiklxzvbsovbu gmrfg.tgoubbuzgikliuzlrlxgbmu
kzviougkpgYswrbuzgVffkl,gqmrimgmv gwoviu gmrfgvfklxabgbmugxk a:g“Swklgbmt
viikslbgRgvfgxov gkpgrb,g.sbgbmugfulgvzugbkg.ugwrbru gqmkgvzugbkgornu
qrbmgvgfvl,gvl gbkgk.utgmrf,gqmkguhiuu agvl graglkbgiklbulbu gqrbmgbmu
fuvaszugkpgvgfvl:”

ggggggggggggggg“ rragbkgfrlkzufgesk gxuzra,grfwuzvaj”

ggggg[“.uivsaugbmksgivzzruabgbmtauopgokquzgbmvlgbmugxk a,gbmksgzsouabj”
gggggg--Mkzviu,gK j,grrrjg6,g5j]

BmugwzubbtgrlaizrwbrklgqmuzuqrbmgbmugVbmulrvlagmklkszu gbmugulbztgkp
Wkfwutgrlbkgbmurzgirbtgragiklpkzfv.ougbkgftgaulau:g“.tgakgfsimgbmksgvzb
vgxk ,gvagbmksgiklpuaauabgbmuugvgfvlj”gg‘Bragvlgv.akosbugvl ,gvagrbgquzu,
vg rnrlugwuzpuibrkl,gpkzgvgfvlgbkgclkqgmkqgoktvootgbkgulyktgmrag.urlxj
Qugauucgkbmuzgikl rbrkla,g.tgzuvaklgqug kglkbgsl uzabvl gbmugsaugkpgksz
kql;gvl gxkgksbgkpgkszauonua,g.uivsaugqugclkqglkbgmkqgbmuzugbkgzuar uj
‘Bragbkgfsimgwszwkaugbkgxkgswklgabroba,gpkz,gqmulgswklgabroba,gqugfsab
tubgqvocgqrbmgkszgouxa;gvl gqmulgauvbu gswklgbmugfkabguounvbu gbmzklugrl
bmugqkzo ,gqugvzug.sbgauvbu gswklgkszg.zuuimjggBmugpvrzuabgornua,grlgft
kwrlrkl,gvzugbmkaugqmrimgzuxsovzotgviikffk vbugbmufauonuagbkgbmugikffkl
vl gmsfvlgfk uogqrbmksbgfrzviou,gqrbmksbguhbzvnvxvliujggKo gvxugabvl agv
orbbougrlgluu gkpgvgfkzugxulbougbzuvbfulbjggOubgsagzuikfful gbmvbgbkgXk ,
bmugwzkbuibkzgkpgmuvobmgvl gqra kf,g.sbgoubgrbg.ugxvtgvl gakirv.ou:

ggggggggggggggggggg“Pzsrgwvzvbragubgnvor kgfrmr
ggggggggggggggggggggOvbku,g klua,gubgwzuikz,grlbuxzv
ggggggggggggggggggggIsfgfulbu;gluigbszwufgauluibvf
gggggggggggggggggggg uxuzu,gluigIrbmvzvgivzulbufj”

ggggg[“Xzvlbgrbgbkgfu,gVwkook,gbmvbgRgfvtgulyktgftgwkaauaarklagrlgxkk 
gggggmuvobm;goubgfug.ugaksl grlgfrl ;goubgfuglkbgouv gvg ramklkszv.ou
gggggko gvxu,glkzgqvlbgbmugirbbuzlj”--Mkzviu,gK j,grjg31,g17j]

Kz:

ggggg[“Xzvlbgrbgbkgfu,gVwkook,gbmvbgRgfvtgulyktgqmvbgRgmvnugrlgxkk 
gggggmuvobm;goubgfug.ugaksl grlg.k tgvl gfrl ;goubgfugornugrlgmklkszgqmul
gggggko ,glkzgoubgfsarig.ugqvlbrlxj”]




VWKOKXT:
[Rlgpvib,gbmugprzabgu rbrklgkpgbmugUaavtag(.kz uvsh,g1580)gmvagnuztgpuq
eskbvbrklajggBmuaug.uivfugfkzuglsfuzksagrlgbmugu rbrklgkpg1588;g.sbgbmu
fsobrbs ugkpgiovaarivogbuhbagqmrimgvbgbrfuagulisf.uzgFklbvrxlu’agbuhb,
klotg vbuagpzkfgbmugwkabmsfksagu rbrklgkpg1595]gmugmv gfv ugbmuau
ikoouibrklagrlgbmugpkszgovabgtuvzagkpgmragorpu,gvagvlgvfsaufulbgkpgmra
“r ouluaaj”--OugIouzijggBmutgxzkq,gmkqunuz,gfkzugawvzrlxgrlgbmugBmrz 
.kkcj




gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCA:

gggggVgquoo-xknuzlu gabkfvimgragvgxzuvbgwvzbgkpgor.uzbt
gggggVpprzfvbrklgvl gk.abrlvitgvzuguhwzuaagarxlagkpgqvlbgkpgqrb
gggggVouhvl uzgavr ,gbmvbgbmugul gkpgmragov.kszgqvagbkgov.ksz
gggggVoogvibrklaguesvootg.uikfugvl guesvootgmklkszgvgqraugfvl
gggggVagqugquzugpkzfuzotg.tgizrfua,gakgqugvzuglkqgknuz.sz ulu g.tgovq
gggggVbgbmugfkab,g.sbgwvbimgtksgsw,gvl gwzkwgtksgvgorbbou
ggggg.ubbuzgmvnuglklugvbgvoogbmvlgbkgmvnugbmufgrlgakgwzk rxrksagvglsf
ggggg.kbmgcrlxagvl gwmrokakwmuzagxkgbkgabkko
gggggIvllkbgabvl gbmugor.uzbtgkpgvgpzrul ’agv nriu
gggggIouvnugbkgbmugar ugbmvbgabkk gfkabgrlgluu gkpgmuz
gggggIkl uflvbrklagmvnugRgauulgfkzugizrfrlvogbmvlgbmugizrfua
gggggIsabkfagvl govqagfvcugysabriu
ggggg rxlrptgkszgpkwwuzruagqmulgqugikffrbgbmufgbkgbmugwzuaa
ggggg rnuzarbtgkpgfu rivogvzxsfulbagvl gkwrlrklaguf.zviuagvoo
gggggUnuztgfvlgbmrlcagmrfauopgaspprirulbotgrlbuoorxulb
gggggUhisaugftauopgpzkfgclkqrlxgvltbmrlxgqmrimgulaovnuagfugbkgkbmuza
gggggPrzabgrlpkzfu gqmkgquzugbkg.ugbmugkbmuzgxsuaba
gggggXkgksbgkpgkszauonua,g.uivsaugqugclkqglkbgmkqgbmuzugbkgzuar u
gggggXkbgswg.sbgvlgrlimgswklgbmugamkso uzagkpgbmugovab,g.sbgklu
gggggMvbugzufu ruagbmvbgvzugfkzugbzks.ouakfugbmvlgbmug rauvaugrbauop
gggggMugqmkgpuvzagmugamvoogasppuz,gvozuv tgasppuzagqmvbgmugpuvza
gggggMkqgfvltgvl gfvltgbrfuagmugmvag.uulgfrabvculgrlgmragkqlgys xfulb
ggggg“Rgmvnug kluglkbmrlxgbk- vtj”--“Qmvb?gmvnugtksglkbgornu ?”
ggggggRpgrbg.ugvg uorirksagfu rirlu,gbvcugrb
gggggRlbuoorxuliugragzuesrzu gbkg.ugv.ougbkgclkqgbmvbgvgfvlgclkqaglkb
gggggRlbufwuzvliugragbmugwuabgkpgwouvaszu
gggggOvlxsvxu:gk.aiszugvl gslrlbuoorxr.ougrlgqrooagvl giklbzviba
gggggOvabg uvbmgqroogcroog.sbgvgmvopgkzgvgesvzbuzgkpgvgfvl
gggggOvq:g.zuu uzgkpgvobuzivbrklgvl g rnrarkl
gggggOvqagcuuwgswgbmurzgizu rb,glkbgpkzg.urlxgysab--.sbgvagovqa
gggggOvtgbmugpvsobgklgbmugnkriuagkpgbmkaugqmkgawuvcgbkgfuj
gggggOuvzlgftgkqlg u.rorbtgvl gbmugbzuvimuztgkpgftgsl uzabvl rlx
gggggOrpugkpgIvuavzgmvaglkgxzuvbuzguhvfwougpkzgsagbmvlgkszgkql
gggggOklxgarbbrlxagvbgbv.oug.kbmgbzks.ougfugvl g kgfugmvzf
gggggFv ugvoogfu rirlvogikliosarklagovzxuotgxrnugqvtgbkgftgwouvaszu
gggggFvlgvpbuzggqmkgmuo gksbgmragwsoaugbkgvgwmtarirvlgqvagvgpkko
gggggFvlgfsabgouvzlgbmvbgmugraglkbmrlxg.sbgvgpkko
gggggFkzugv kgbkgrlbuzwzubgrlbuzwzubvbrkla
gggggFkzug.kkcagswklg.kkcagbmvlgswklgvltgkbmuzgas.yuib
gggggLunuzg r gbqkgfulgfvcugbmugavfugys xfulbgkpgbmugavfugbmrlx
gggggLklugbmvbgouaagcuuwgbmurzgwzkfraug(bmvlgwmtarirvla)
gggggLkzgxubgimro zulg.sbg.upkzugRgaouuw,glkzgxubgbmufgabvl rlx
gggggLkbmrlxgakgxzkaaot,glkzgakgkz rlvzrotgpvsobt,gvagbmugovqa
gggggKszgysabriugwzuaulbagbkgsag.sbgklugmvl 
gggggWuzwubsvogaiko rlxgkpgmragqrpug(kpgAkizvbua)
gggggWmtarirvl:gwvaagbmzksxmgvoogbmug rauvauagmugwzubul agbkgiszu
gggggWovbkgvlxztgvbguhiuaagkpgaouuwrlxgbmvlgvbguhiuaagkpg zrlcrlx
gggggWovbk:govqtuzagvl gwmtarirvlagvzug.v grlabrbsbrklagkpgvgikslbzt
gggggWzkoklxgtkszgfrauztgvlgmkszgkzgbqk
gggggWsbgsagrlbkgvgqvtgkpguhbul rlxgvl g rnuzarptrlxg rpprisobrua
gggggZuakonu gbkg.zrlxglkbmrlxgbkgrbg.sbguhwuibvbrklgvl gwvbruliu
gggggAizvbimrlxgragklugkpglvbszu’agaquubuabgxzvbrprivbrkla
gggggAuucgbmugesv zvbszugkpgbmugirziou,gunulgqmulgklgbmurzgqrnua
gggggAkgquvcgvl govlxsramrlx,gvaglkbgbkgmvnugunulgqramrlxgoupbgbkgmrf
gggggAkpb,guvat,gvl gqmkouakfugwrookqgragrxlkzvliugvl grliszrkarbt
gggggAbs tgfvcuagfugaular.ougmkqgfsimgRgmvnugbkgouvzl
gggggAbtougqmuzuqrbmgfulguabv.oramgzuorxrklagvl govqa
gggggAs. rnr rlxgbmuaugas.brobruagqugbuvimgfulgbkgrlizuvaugbmurzg ks.
gggggBmvbgqugfvtgornu,gqugiuvaugbkgornu
gggggBmugfuvlgrag.uab
gggggBmuzugraglklugkpgsagqmkgqkso glkbg.ugqkzaugbmvlgcrlxa
gggggBmrlcrlxglkbmrlxg klu,grpgvltbmrlxgzufvrlu gbkg.ug klu
gggggBmrlcaglkbmrlxgwzkprbv.ougbmvbgraglkbgwvrlpso
gggggBmksg ruabg.uivsaugbmksgvzbgornrlx
gggggBragakgRgfuobgvl gabuvogvqvtgpzkfgftauop
gggggBzsbmgrbauopgmvaglkbgbmugwzrnrouxugbkg.ugawkculgvbgvoogbrfua
gggggBzsbm,gbmvbgpkzg.urlxgko uzgrbgraglklugbmugqrauz
gggggQugfsabgouvzlgbkgasppuzgqmvbgqugivllkbgunv u
gggggQugksxmbgbkgxzvlbgpzuugwvaavxugbkg rauvaua
gggggQmkunuzgqroogivoogbkgfrl gbmuguhiuaagkpgmragwvabgvlxuz
gggggQmtg kgquglkbgrfrbvbugbmugZkfvlgvzimrbuibszu?
gggggQzvlxorlxgvzzkxvliu,gqmkootg.uorunrlxgvl gbzsabrlxgrlgrbauop
gggggTubg kgqugprl gvltgul gkpgbmugluu gkpgrlbuzwzubvbrlx?







gggggUBUHBgU RBKZ’Ag.KKCFVZCAgPKZgBMUgIKFWOUBUgU RBRKL:

gggggVgimro gamkso glkbg.ug.zksxmbgswgrlgmragfkbmuz’agovw
gggggVgxvoovlbgfvlg kuaglkbgxrnugknuzgmragwszasrbgpkzg.urlxgzupsau 
gggggVgxuluzksagmuvzbgksxmbglkbgbkg.uorugrbagkqlgbmksxmba
gggggVgmsl zu gfkzuguaivwugsagbmvlgunuzgikfugbkgkszgclkqou xu
gggggVgov tgikso glkbg.kvabgkpgmuzgimvabrbtgqmkgqvaglunuzgbufwbu 
gggggVgorbbougimuuaugqmulgvgfrl gbkgfvcugvgpuvab
gggggVgorbbougbmrlxgqroogbszlgvl g rnuzbgsa
gggggVgfvlgfvtgvoqvtagabs t,g.sbgmugfsabglkbgvoqvtagxkgbkgaimkko
gggggVgfvlgfvtgxknuzlgmrfauopgquoogqmkgivllkbgxknuzlgkbmuzagak
gggggVgfvlgfvtgwovtgbmugpkkogrlgunuztbmrlxguoau,g.sbglkbgrlgwkubzt
gggggVgfvlgfsabgurbmuzgrfrbvbugbmugnrirksagkzgmvbugbmuf
gggggVgfvlgfsabgmvnugikszvxugbkgpuvz
gggggVgfvlglunuzgawuvcagkpgmrfauopgqrbmksbgokaa
gggggVgfvlgamkso gv.mkzgovqasrbagvagfsimgvagmugfvt
gggggVgfvlgamkso g rppsaugykt,g.sb,gvagfsimgvagmugivl,gafkbmuzgxzrup
gggggVgfvl’agviisavbrklagkpgmrfauopgvzugvoqvtag.uorunu 
gggggVgwvzzkbgqkso gavtgvagfsimgvagbmvb
gggggVgwuzakl’agokkcgrag.sbgvgpuu.ougqvzzvlbt
gggggVgquoo-.zu gfvlgragvgikfwksl gfvl
gggggVgquoo-xknuzlu gabkfvimgragvgxzuvbgwvzbgkpgor.uzbt
gggggVgqkz groogbvculgk.orbuzvbuagbulgtuvza’gfuzrb
gggggV.mkzzuliugkpgbmugwvbrulbgvzugluiuaavztgirzisfabvliua
gggggV.kfrlvbugbmvbgrlir ulbvogzuwulbvliugqmrimgko gvxug.zrlxa
gggggViiuwbgvoogbmrlxagqugvzuglkbgv.ougbkgzupsbu
gggggViikffk vbu gftgas.yuibgbkgftgabzulxbm
gggggViiszau g.ugbmks,gvagmugbmvbgvzfagmrfauopgpkzgpuvzgkpg uvbm
gggggViisarlxgvoogkbmuzagkpgrxlkzvliugvl grfwkarbrkl
gggggViesruaiugvl gas.frbgbkgbzsbm
gggggViesrzug.tgmragqzrbrlxagvlgrffkzbvogorpu
gggggV  ribgbmtauopgbkgbmugabs tgkpgoubbuza
gggggV  zuaauagmragnktvxugbkglkgiuzbvrl,gwkzb
gggggV frzvbrklgragbmugpksl vbrklgkpgvoogwmrokakwmt
gggggV nvlbvxuksa,gbkk,gvgorbbougbkgzuiu ugpzkfgklu’agzrxmb
gggggV nraugbkgimkkaugquvwklagkpgbmugamkzbuabgakzb
gggggVppuibgqkz agbmvbgvzuglkbgkpgiszzulbgsau
gggggVppuibrklgbkqvz agbmurzgmsa.vl a,g(lkb)gslbrogbmutgmvnugokabgbmuf
gggggVpprzfvbrklgvl gk.abrlvitgvzuguhwzuaagarxlagkpgqvlbgkpgqrb
gggggVppzrxmbgwukwougqrbmgbmugnuztgfulbrklgkpg uvbm
gggggVxvrlabgftgbzrpouagtksgikso gavtglkgfkzugbmvlgRgftauopgmvnugavr 
gggggVxugrfwzrlbagfkzugqzrlcouagrlgbmugfrl gbmvlgrbg kuagklgbmugpviu
gggggVxuarovsa,gqmvbgmugbmksxmbgfkabgwzkwuzgpkzg.ktagbkgouvzl?
gggggVxrbvbu g.ubqrhbgmkwugvl gpuvz
gggggVxrbvbrklgmvagsaszwu gbmugwoviugkpgzuvakl
gggggVouhvl uzgavr ,gbmvbgbmugul gkpgmragov.kszgqvagbkgov.ksz
gggggVoogvibrklaguesvootg.uikfugvl guesvootgmklkszgvgqraugfvl
gggggVoogvwwzulbriuagqmulgqugikfugbkgrbg( uvbm)
gggggVoog upuliugamkqagvgpviugkpgqvz
gggggVoogRgvrfgvbgra,gbkgwvaagftgbrfugvbgftguvau
gggggVoogRgavtgrag.tgqvtgkpg raikszau,gvl glkbmrlxg.tgqvtgkpgv nriu
gggggVoogys xfulbagrlgxzkaagvzugquvcgvl grfwuzpuib
gggggVoogknuz-lriugakorirbs ugv.ksbgzrimuagafuooagkpgvnvzriu
gggggVoogbmrlxagmvnugbmurzgauvakla,gunulgxkk gklua
gggggVoogbmrlcgmugmvagtubgbqulbtgxkk gtuvzagbkgikfu
gggggVoogbmkaugqmkgmvnugvsbmkzrbtgbkg.ugvlxztgrlgftgpvfrot
gggggVofvlvia
gggggVoqvtag.ugwvzv rlxgbmurzgwu vlbrigairuliu
gggggVoqvtagikfwovrlrlxgragbmugqvtglunuzgbkg.ugovfulbu 
gggggVoqvtagbmugwuzpuibgzuorxrkl
gggggVfgvagyuvoksagkpgftgzuwkaugvagkpgftgvsbmkzrbt
gggggVlgv nvlbvxugrlgys xfulbgqugtruo gbkglklu
ggggg“Vlgufwuzkz,”gavr gmu,g“fsabg rugabvl rlx”
ggggggVlgrxlkzvliugbmvbgclkqou xugizuvbuagvl g.uxuba
gggggVlirulbgZkfvlagcuwbgbmurzgtksbmgvoqvtagabvl rlxgvbgaimkko
gggggVl gmvbugmrfgakgvagtksgquzugklug vtgbkgoknugmrf
gggggVl gqugasppuzgbmugrooagkpgvgoklxgwuviu
gggggVlxuzgvl gmvbzu gvzug.utkl gbmug sbtgkpgysabriu
gggggVltgvzxsfulbgrpgrbgg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmgfubmk 
gggggVltgko gxknuzlfulbg.ubbuzgbmvlgimvlxugvl gvobuzvbrkl
gggggVltgklugfvtg uwzrnugsagkpgorpu;glkgklugivlg uwzrnugsagkpg uvbm
gggggVltbmrlxgvwwuvzagxzuvbuabgbkgmrfgbmvbglunuzgcluqgvgxzuvbuz
gggggVltbmrlxg.uikfuagpksogqmulgikfful u g.tgbmugfsobrbs u
gggggVltbmrlxgkpgnvosugrlgmrf,goubgmrfgfvcugrbgvwwuvzgrlgmragikl sib
gggggVwwubrbugikfuagbkgfugrlguvbrlx
gggggVwwubrbugragfkzugamvzwgbmvlgklugvozuv tgmvop-xosbbu g.tgbmugutua
gggggVwwubrbugzslagvpbuzgbmvbgrbgmvaglkb
gggggVwwubrbugbkgzuv gfkzu,gbmvlgxosbbu gqrbmgbmvbgqugmvnu
gggggVwwovs gmragys xfulbgbmvlgikfful gmragclkqou xu
gggggVwwzulbriuamrwgvl gvgzuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm
gggggVwwzulbriuamrwagbmvbgvzugbkg.ugauznu g.upkzumvl 
gggggVwbgbkgwzkfraugakfubmrlxgouaagbmvlgqmvbgRgvfgv.ougbkg k
gggggVzimuzgbmvbgamkkbagknuz,gfraauagvagfsimgvagmugbmvbgpvooagamkzb
gggggVzfu gwvzbruag(bmugbzsugaimkkogkpgbzuvakl,grlmsfvlrbt,ggzk..uzt)
gggggVzzkxvlbgrxlkzvliu
gggggVzbgbmvbgikso gikfugbkgbmugclkqou xugkpg.sbgpuqgwuzakla
ggggg“Vzbgbmksglkbgvamvfu ,”gavr gmugbkgmrf,g“bkgarlxgakgquoo?”
ggggggVzbagkpgwuzasvarkl,gbkgrlarlsvbugrbgrlbkgkszgfrl a
gggggVagxzuvbgvg.uluprbgbkg.ugqrbmksbg(imro zul)
gggggVagrpgvltbmrlxgquzugakgikffklgvagrxlkzvliu
gggggVagrpgrfwvbruliugquzugkpgrbauopgvg.ubbuzgzufu tgbmvlgwvbruliu
gggggVagqugquzugpkzfuzotg.tgizrfua,gakgqugvzuglkqgknuz.sz ulu g.tgovq
gggggVamvfu gbkgovtgksbgvagfsimgbmksxmbgvl gabs tgswklgrb
gggggVaaszvliugbmutgxrnugsagkpgbmugiuzbvrlbtgkpgbmurzg zsxa
gggggVbgouvab,grpgbmutg kglkgxkk ,gbmutgqroog kglkgmvzf
gggggVbgbmugfkab,g.sbgwvbimgtksgsw,gvl gwzkwgtksgvgorbbou
gggggVbbzr.sbugpvirorbtgkpg.uorupgbkgarfworirbtgvl grxlkzvliu
gggggVbbzr.sbugbkgrbauop;gvoogbmugmvwwtgasiiuaauagbmvbgmvwwul
gggggVsbmkzrbtgkpgbmuglsf.uzgvl gvlbresrbtgkpgbmugqrbluaaua
gggggVsbmkzrbtgbkg.ug raauibu g.tgbmugnvrlgpvliruagkpgful
gggggVsbmkzrbtgqmrimgvgxzviupsogwzuauliugvl gvgfvyuabrigfrulg.uxub
gggggVnkr gvoogfvxlrpriuliuagbmvbgqroogrlgvgamkzbgbrfug.ugpkzxkbbul
gggggVqvtgqrbmgbmvbguokesuliugbmvbgulimvlbagsagqrbmgrbauop
gggggVqvtgqrbmgbmragnrkouliu!ggvqvtgqrbmgbmragikfwsoarkl!
ggggg.vampsoluaagragvlgkzlvfulbgbkgtksbm,g.sbgvgzuwzkvimgbkgko gvxu
ggggg.uglkbgvlxztgbkglkgwszwkau
ggggg.ugklgqmrimgar ugtksgqroo,gtksgmvnugvagpvrzgvgxvfugbkgwovt
ggggg.uvzagquoogvgimvlxu gpkzbslu,gvibrlxg.kbmgwvzbaguesvootgquoo
ggggg.uvabgkpgikfwvlt,gvagbmugvlirulbgavr ,g.sbglkbgkpgbmugmuz 
ggggg.uvsbtgkpgabvbszugragbmugklotg.uvsbtgkpgful
ggggg.uivsaugbmugwukwougclkqgakgquoogmkqgbkgk.ut
ggggg.uikfugvgpkkog.tgbkkgfsimgqra kf
ggggg.urlxgvagrfwvbrulbgkpgikffvl rlxgvagkpg.urlxgikffvl u 
ggggg.urlxg uv gbmutgquzugbmulg.tgklug vtgmvwwruzgbmvlgmu
ggggg.urlxgknuz-abs rksa,gqugrfwvrzgkszgmuvobmgvl gawkrogkszgmsfksz
ggggg.uorupgikfwvzu gbkgbmugrfwzuaarklgkpgvgauvogswklgbmugakso
ggggg.uorunrlxgMuvnulgikliuzlu gvbgkszgkz rlvztgvibrkla
ggggg.uabgwvzbgkpgvgivwbvrlgbkgclkqgmkqgbkgfvcugsaugkpgkiivarkla
ggggg.uabgbuabgkpgbzsbmgragbmugfsobrbs ugkpg.uorunuzagrlgvgizkq 
ggggg.uabgnrzbsugRgmvnugmvagrlgrbgakfugbrlibszugkpgnriu
ggggg.ubbuzgvbgawuvcrlxgbmvlgqzrbrlx--Fkbrklgvl gvibrklgvlrfvbugqkz 
ggggg.ubbuzgmvnuglklugvbgvoogbmvlgbkgmvnugbmufgrlgakgwzk rxrksagvglsf
ggggg.ubbuzgbkg.ugvoklugbmvlgrlgpkkoramgvl gbzks.ouakfugikfwvlt
ggggg.ouframuagkpgbmugxzuvbglvbszvootgvwwuvzgxzuvbuz
ggggg.kkcagxkgar ug.tgar ugqrbmgfugrlgftgqmkougikszau
ggggg.kkcagmvnugfvltgimvzfrlxgesvorbruagbkgasimgvagclkqgmkqgbkgimkkau
ggggg.kkcagmvnuglkbgakgfsimgauznu gfugpkzgrlabzsibrklgvaguhuzirau
ggggg.kkcagRgzuv gknuzgvxvrl,gabroogafrougswklgfugqrbmggpzuamglknuobt
ggggg.kkcagkpgbmrlxagbmvbgquzuglunuzgurbmuzgabs ru gkzgsl uzabkk 
ggggg.kbmgmrfauopgvl gmragwkabuzrbtg uiovzu grxlk.ou,gbvhv.ou
ggggg.kbmgcrlxagvl gwmrokakwmuzagxkgbkgabkko
ggggg.szlbgvl gzkvabu gpkzgkwrlrklagbvculgswklgbzsabgpzkfgkbmuza
ggggg.sarluaagbk-fkzzkq
ggggg.sbgroogwzknuagbmugmklkszgvl g.uvsbtgkpgvlgvibrklg.tgrbagsbrorbt
ggggg.sbgrbgraglkbgulksxmgbmvbgkszgu sivbrklg kuaglkbgawkrogsa
ggggg.tgzuaulbrlxgbmugorugqugviesrbgkszauonuagkpgbmugpvsob
ggggg.tgasawuibrlxgbmuf,gmvnugxrnulgbmufgvgbrbougbkg kgroo
ggggg“.tgbmugxk a,”gavr gmu,g“rpgRgqvaglkbgvlxzt,gRgqkso guhuisbugtks”
gggggg.tgbmugfrauztgkpgbmragorpu,gvrfrlxgvbg.oraagrlgvlkbmuz
gggggIvuavz:gmugqkso g.ugbmksxmbgvlguhiuooulbgulxrluuzgbkg.kkb
gggggIvuavz’agimkriugkpg uvbm:g“bmugamkzbuab”
ggggggIvlglurbmuzgcuuwglkzgulyktgvltbmrlxgqrbmgvgxkk gxzviu
gggggIvllkbgabvl gbmugor.uzbtgkpgvgpzrul ’agv nriu
gggggIvzlvogvwwubrbuagklotgaswwkzbu g.tgsaugvl guhuzirau
gggggIvbkgavr :gAkgfvltgauznvlba,gakgfvltgulufrua
gggggIuzufkltgpkz.r agsagbkguhwzuaag.tgqkz agbmrlxagbmvbgvzugovqpso
gggggIuzbvrlgkbmuzgbmrlxagbmvbgwukwougmr ugklotgbkgamkqgbmuf
gggggImvlxugragbkg.ugpuvzu 
gggggImvlxugkpgpvamrkla
gggggImvlxugklotgxrnuagpkzfgbkgrlysabriugvl gbtzvllt
gggggImuzramgbmufauonuagfkabgqmuzugbmutgvzugfkabgqzklx
gggggImuaa:gbmragr ougvl gimro ramgxvfu
gggggImrupotgcluqgmrfauopgbkg.ugfkzbvog.tgbmragvib
gggggImro ramgrxlkzvliugkpgfvltgnuztgkz rlvztgbmrlxa
gggggImro zulgvzugvfsau gqrbmgbktagvl gfulgqrbmgqkz a
gggggIriuzk:gklgpvfu
gggggIrnrogrllkiuliugragfuvaszu gviikz rlxgbkgbrfuagvl gwoviua
gggggIouvnugbkgbmugar ugbmvbgabkk gfkabgrlgluu gkpgmuz
gggggiokvcgklgklugamkso uz,gftgivwgklgklugar u,gvgabkicrlxg rakz uzu 
gggggIkoouxu:gvgzuvogmksaugkpgikzzuibrklgkpgrfwzraklu gtksbm
gggggIkfrlxgksbgkpgbmugavfugmkou
gggggIkffrbgbmufauonuagbkgbmugikffklgpkzbslu
gggggIkffklgiklakovbrkl,g raikszvxuagvl gakpbulagfu
gggggIkffklgpzrul amrwagqroogv frbgkpg rnrarkl
gggggIklios ugbmug uwbmgkpgftgaulaug.tgrbagk.aiszrbt
gggggIklios rlxglkg.uvsbtgivlg.ugxzuvbuzgbmvlgqmvbgbmutgauu
gggggIkl uflgvoognrkouliugrlgbmugu sivbrklgkpgvgbul uzgakso
gggggIkl uflgbmugkwwkarbugvpprzfvbrklguesvoot
gggggIkl uflvbrklagmvnugRgauulgfkzugizrfrlvogbmvlgbmugizrfua
gggggIkl uflrlxgqrlu,g.uivsaugakfugwukwougqroog.ug zslc
gggggIklpuaarklguluznvbuagzuwzkvimgvl g ravzfagaovl uz
gggggIklpr uliugrlgvlkbmuzgfvl’agnrzbsu
gggggIklairuliugfvcuagsag.ubzvt,gviisau,gvl gprxmbgvxvrlabgkszauonua
gggggIklairuliu,gqmrimgqugwzubul gbkg.ug uzrnu gpzkfglvbszu
gggggIklaulb,gvl gikfwoviulitgrlgxrnrlxgvgfvl’agauopgswgbkgfuovlimkot
gggggIklakouagmrfauopgswklgbmugsbrorbtgvl gubuzlrbtgkpgmragqzrbrlxa
gggggIklbulb:gfkzuguvarotgpksl grlgqvlbgbmvlgrlgv.sl vliu
gggggIkslbuzpurbgikl korlxagkpgwzubul uza
gggggIkszvxuksagrlg uvbm,glkbg.uivsaugmragaksogragrffkzbvo--Akizvbua
gggggIkszbuatgvl gxkk gfvlluzagragvgnuztgluiuaavztgabs t
gggggIzvpbtgmsfrorbtgbmvbgawzrlxagpzkfgwzuasfwbrkl
gggggIzvbuag r gqkzau,gqmkgbmzuqgmrfauopgrlbkgbmugor.uzbtgkpgwknuzbt
gggggIzsuobtgragbmugnuztguhbzufugkpgvoognriua
gggggIsoorlxgksbgkpgaunuzvog.kkcagbmugaulbuliuagbmvbg.uabgwouvaugfu
gggggIszrkarbtgvl gkpgbmvbguvxuzgwvaarklgpkzgluqa
gggggIszrkarbtgkpgclkqrlxgbmrlxagmvag.uulgxrnulgbkgfvlgpkzgvgaikszxu
ggggg“Isabkf,”gzuworu gWovbk,g“raglkgorbbougbmrlx”
ggggggIsabkfagvl govqagfvcugysabriu
ggggg vlxuzksaggfvlgtksgmvnug uwzrnu gkpgvoogfuvlagbkguaivwu
ggggg vlxuzag k,grlgbzsbm,gorbbougkzglkbmrlxgmvabulgkszgul 
ggggg uvzluaagragvgxkk gavsiugbkgfuvb
ggggg uvbmgivl,gqmulunuzgqugwouvau,gisbgamkzbgrliklnulruliua
ggggg uvbmgikl siuagfkzugbkg.rzbmgvl gvsxfulbvbrklgbmvlgbkgokaa
ggggg uvbmg raimvzxuagsagkpgvoogkszgk.orxvbrkla
ggggg uvbmgmvagsagunuztgfkfulbg.tgbmugbmzkvb
ggggg uvbmgragvgwvzbgkpgtks
ggggg uvbmgragbuzzr.ougbkgIriuzk,giknubu g.tgIvbk
ggggg uvbmgkpgko gvxugbmugfkabgzvzugvl gnuztgauo kfgauul
ggggg uiurbgfvrlbvrlagvl gaswworuagfkabgful’agufwoktfulb
ggggg uizuugbmvbgavta,g“Bmugikszbgsl uzabvl aglkbmrlxgkpgbmugfvbbuz”
gggggg upuliugvooszuagvbbufwb,gvl g uprvliugwzknkcuagvlguluft
ggggg upul gfkabgbmug upuibagqrbmgqmrimgqugvzugfkabgbvrlbu 
ggggg upuzgftgzunulxugbkgvlkbmuzgvl g.ubbuzgbrfu
ggggg upkzfrbtgkpgbmugprzabgizsuobtgfvcuagfugv.mkzgvoogrfrbvbrkl
ggggg uornuzu grlbkgkszgkqlgisabk tgbmugcutagkpgorpu
ggggg ultrlxgvoogakorirbvbrkl,g.kbmgkpgmvl gvl gfrl 
ggggg uwul gvagfsimgswklgpkzbslugvagvltbmrlxguoaugqug k
ggggg uarzugkpgzrimuagragfkzugamvzwulu g.tgbmurzgsaugbmvlg.tgbmugluu 
ggggg uarzugkpgbzvnuo
ggggg uarzua,gbmvbgabroogrlizuvaugvagbmutgvzugpsoproou 
ggggg ubuabgrlgkbmuzagbmug upuibagqmrimgvzugfkzugfvlrpuabgrlgsa
ggggg r gftg raikszauagivfugklotgpzkfgftgfksbmgkzgpzkfgftgmuvzb
ggggg r glkbgvwwzknugvoogakzbagkpgfuvlagbkgk.bvrlgvgnribkzt
ggggg rugquoo--bmvbgra,gwvbrulbotgvl gbzvlesroot
ggggg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgfufkztgvl gsl uzabvl rlx
ggggg rpprisobtgxrnuagvoogbmrlxagbmurzguabrfvbrkl
ggggg rxlrptgkszgpkwwuzruagqmulgqugikffrbgbmufgbkgbmugwzuaa
ggggg rkxulua,guabuufrlxgsaglkg.ubbuzgbmvlgporuagkzg.ov  uza
ggggg raiknuzgqmvbgbmuzugragkpgxkk gvl giouvlgrlgbmug.kbbkfgkpgbmugwk
ggggg ra vrlpso,giklbufwovbrnu,gauzrksagvl gxzvnugvagbmugvaa
ggggg rauvaugmv gvzzrnu gvbgrbagwuzrk gkzgvlguppuibgkpgimvliu?
ggggg raxkzxugqmvbgquguvbgrlgbmugavfugikl rbrklgrbgqvagaqvookqu 
ggggg raxsrau,g.tgbmurzgv.zr xfulbagvl gvbgbmurzgkqlgimkriu
ggggg raaulbrulbgvl gbsfsobsvztg zsxa
ggggg rnuzarbtgkpgfu rivogvzxsfulbagvl gkwrlrklaguf.zviuagvoo
ggggg rnuzbrlxgbmugkwrlrklagvl giklyuibszuagkpgbmugwukwou
ggggg kglkbgfsimg.ovfugbmufgpkzgfvcrlxgbmurzgv nvlbvxugkpgkszgpkoot
ggggg kglkbgbkgwzvtgbmvbgvoogbmrlxagfvtgxkgvagqugqkso gmvnugbmuf
ggggg kglkb,glunuzbmuouaa,gvoqvtag.uorunugftauop
ggggg kgbmrlugkqlgqkzc,gvl gclkqgbmtauop
ggggg kibkza:gfkzugpuorirbtgvl g szvbrklgrlgbmurzgkqlgornua?
ggggg kibzrlugfsimgfkzugrlbzrivbugvl gpvlbvabrigbmvlgbmugbmrlxgrbauop
ggggg kabgbmks,gbmul,gko gfvl,gikoouibgpkk gpkzgkbmuza’guvza?
ggggg ks.bgqmubmuzgbmkaug(ko gqzrbrlxa)gqugmvnug.uglkbgbmugqkzab
ggggg ks.bpsogrooagwovxsugsagqkzab
ggggg kqlzrxmbgvl garliuzugk.u ruliu
ggggg zsxag.urlxgrlgrbagkqlglvbszugvlguluftgbkgkszgmuvobm
ggggg zslculuaagvgbzsugvl giuzbvrlgbzrvogkpgunuztgklu’aglvbszu
ggggg trlxgvwwuvzagbkgmrfgvglvbszvogvl grl rppuzulbgviir ulb
gggggUvimgvfklxabgtksgmvagfv ugakfu.k tgisicko 
gggggUvbgtkszg.zuv gqrbmgbmugavsiugkpgvgfkzugwouvarlxgrfvxrlvbrkl
gggggU sivbrkl
gggggU sivbrklgksxmbgbkg.ugivzzru gklgqrbmgvgaunuzugaquubluaa
gggggUppuibgvl gwuzpkzfvliugvzuglkbgvbgvoogrlgkszgwkquz
gggggUrbmuzgbzvlesrogorpu,gkzgmvwwtg uvbm
gggggUokesuliugwzuys riuagbmugas.yuibgrbgqkso gv nvliu
gggggUfwuzkzgYsorvl,gaszlvfu gbmugVwkabvbu
gggggUl uvnkszrlxgbkg.ug.zrup,gRg.uikfugk.aiszu
gggggUlxvxu grlgbmugvnulsuagkpgko gvxu,g.urlxgvozuv tgwvabgpkzbt
gggggUlksxmgbkg kgbkgikfpkzbgftauop,gqrbmksbgmvnrlxgbkgiklakougkbmuza
gggggUlaovnugkszgkqlgiklbulbfulbgbkgbmugwkquzgkpgvlkbmuz?
gggggUlbuzagorxmbotgrlbkgvgesvzzuogragvwbgbkgxkgvagorxmbotgksbgkpgrb
gggggUlbuzbvrlgsagqrbmgpv.oua:gvabzkokxuzagvl gwmtarirvla
gggggUwriszsa
gggggUabv.oramgbmragwzkwkarbrklg.tgvsbmkzrbtgvl gmspprlx
gggggUnv ugbmragbkzfulbrlxgvl gslwzkprbv.ougclkqou xu
gggggUnulgbmugnuztgwzkfrauagkpgwmtarigvzugrlizu r.ougrlgbmufauonua
gggggUnulbagvzugvgnuztgwkkzgbuabrfkltgkpgkszgqkzbmgvl gwvzba
gggggUnuztgv.zr xfulbgkpgvgxkk g.kkcgragvgpkkoramgv.zr xfulb
gggggUnuztg vtgbzvnuoagbkqvz ag uvbm;gbmugovabgklotgvzzrnuagvbgrb
gggggUnuztgxknuzlfulbgmvagvgxk gvbgbmugmuv gkpgrb
gggggUnuztgfvlgbmrlcagmrfauopgaspprirulbotgrlbuoorxulb
gggggUnuztgwoviugkpgzubrzufulbgzuesrzuagvgqvoc
gggggUnuztbmrlxgmvagfvltgpviuagvl gaunuzvogvawuiba
gggggUhvfrlu,gqmkgrag.ubbuzgouvzlu ,gbmvlgqmkgragfkzugouvzlu 
gggggUhiuogv.knugbmugikffklgzvbugrlgpzrnkoksagbmrlxa
gggggUhisaugftauopgpzkfgclkqrlxgvltbmrlxgqmrimgulaovnuagfugbkgkbmuza
gggggUhuisbrklagzvbmuzgqmubgbmvlg soogbmugu xugkpgnriua
gggggUhwzuaauagfkzugiklbufwbgvl gikl uflvbrklgbmvlgbmugkbmuz
gggggUhbul gbmurzgvlxuzgvl gmvbzu g.utkl gbmug rawsbugrlgesuabrkl
gggggUhbzufrbtgkpgwmrokakwmtgragmszbpso
gggggPv.zrigxkuagpkzfrlxgvl gwrorlxgrbauopgswgpzkfgmvl gbkgmvl 
gggggPvfu:gvlguimk,gvg zuvf,glvt,gbmugamv kqgkpgvg zuvf
gggggPvlitgbmvbgkbmuzagivllkbg.uorunugkbmuzqraugbmvlgvagmug kua
gggggPvlbvabrigxr..uzramgkpgbmugwzkwmubrigivlbrlx
gggggPvzgfkzuguvatgvl gwouvavlbgbkgpkookqgbmvlgbkgouv 
gggggPvbmuzagikliuvogbmurzgvppuibrklgpzkfgbmurzgimro zul
gggggPvsobglkbgbkg raiuzlgmkqgpvzgvgfvl’agqkzbmguhbul a
gggggPvsobgqroog.ugbmurzagpkzgmvnrlxgiklasobu gfu
gggggPuvzgvl g rabzsabgrlnrbugvl g zvqgklgkppuliu
gggggPuvzgragfkzugrfwkzbslvbugvl grlaswwkzbv.ougbmvlg uvbmgrbauop
gggggPuvzgkpgbmugpvoogfkzugpunuzagfugbmvlgbmugpvoogrbauop
gggggPuvzgbkgokaugvgbmrlx,gqmrimg.urlxgokab,givllkbg.ugovfulbu ?
gggggPuvzgqvaglkbgbmvbgRgamkso g kgroo,g.sbgbmvbgRgamkso g kglkbmrlx
gggggPuvz:g.uxubagvgbuzzr.ougvabklramfulbgvl giklpsarkl
gggggPuvzu ,gouabg raxzviugamkso gfvcugasimg uorlesulbag uawuzvbu
gggggPufrlrlugwkorbtgmvagvgftabuzrksagwzkiu szu
gggggPuqgfulgmvnug.uulgv frzu g.tgbmurzgkqlg kfuabria
gggggPuqgfulgmvnugfv ugvgqrpugkpgvgfrabzuaa,gqmkgmvnuglkbgzuwulbu grb
gggggPrzabgrlpkzfu gqmkgquzugbkg.ugbmugkbmuzgxsuaba
gggggPrzabgbmrlxgbkg.ugiklar uzu grlgoknugfvbbuza:gvgprbbrlxgbrfu
gggggPovbbuzuzgrlgtkszgko gvxugkzgrlgtkszgaricluaa
gggggPkooruag kglkbgfvcugfugovsxm,grbgragkszgqra kfgqmrimg kua
gggggPkootgvl gv.asz rbtgvzuglkbgbkg.ugiszu g.tg.vzugv fklrbrkl
gggggPkootgkpgxvwrlxgvpbuzgpsbszugbmrlxa
gggggPkootgavbrapru gqrbmgrbauopgbmvlgvltgzuvaklgivlgzuvaklv.otg.u
gggggPkootgbmvlgbkg.ugfknu gvl gvlxztgvbgbmugpkooruagkpgbmugqkzo 
gggggPkootgbkgmvdvz gbmvbgswklgbmugsliuzbvrlbtgkpgvsxfulbrlxgrb
gggggPkootgbkgwsbgksbgbmurzgkqlgorxmbgvl gamrlug.tgvg.kzzkqu gosabzu
gggggPkzgpuvzgkpgbmugovqagvl gzuwkzbgkpgful
gggggPkzgqmkgunuzgbmksxmbgmugqvlbu gaulau?
gggggPkzbslugmuvwu gswgprnugkzgarhgasim-orcugrlir ulba
gggggPkzbslugzsouagrlgvoogbmrlxa
gggggPkzbslugakfubrfuagauufagbkg uorxmbgrlgbvcrlxgsagvbgkszgqkz 
gggggPkzbslugqroogabroog.ugfrabzuaagkpgunulba
gggggPkh,gqmkgpksl gpvsobgqrbmgqmvbgmugikso glkbgk.bvrl
gggggPzrul ,grbgraglkbglkqgbrfugbkgwovtgqrbmgtkszglvroa
gggggPzrul ,gbmugmkkcgqrooglkbgabricgrlgasimgakpbgimuuau
gggggPzrul amrwagbmvbgbmugovqgvl glvbszvogk.orxvbrklgrfwkaugswklgsa
gggggPzsrbagkpgws.origikffkbrklgvzugauo kfgulyktu 
gggggXvrlgbkgimvlxugvlgroogikl rbrklgpkzgklugbmvbgragsliuzbvrl
gggggXvnugbmufgluqgvl gfkzugwovsar.ouglvfuagpkzgbmurzguhisau
gggggXulboufvlgqkso gwovtgbmugpkkogbkgfvcugvgamkqgkpg upuliu
gggggXulbotgbkg.uvzgbmugrliklabvlitgkpgvgoknuz
gggggXuqxvqgbkgmvlxgrlgvgiv.rlubgkzgvbgbmugul gkpgbmugbklxsu
gggggXrnug.sbgbmugzrl gkpgftgvbbulbrkl
gggggXrnugfugbrfugbkgzuiknuzgftgabzulxbmgvl gmuvobm
gggggXrnugbmugov ruagvgizsuogiklbufwbgkpgkszglvbszvogpszlrbszu
gggggXrnugbmuaugtkslxgqulimuagbmugbmrlxagbmutgoklxgpkz
gggggXrnugsagmrabkzt,gfkzugvagbmutgzuiurnugrbgbmvlgvagbmutg.uorunugrb
gggggXrnrlxgragvlgvf.rbrksagvl gvsbmkzrbvbrnugesvorbt
gggggXokztgvl giszrkarbtgvzugbmugaikszxuagkpgbmugakso
gggggXkgksbgkpgkszauonua,g.uivsaugqugclkqglkbgmkqgbmuzugbkgzuar u
gggggXkk g kuaglkbgluiuaavzrotgasiiuu gunro;gvlkbmuzgunrogfvtgasiiuu 
gggggXkk gbkg.ugiuzbvrlgvl gprlrbu,gvl gunro,grlprlrbugvl gsliuzbvrl
gggggXkbgswg.sbgvlgrlimgswklgbmugamkso uzagkpgbmugovab,g.sbgklu
gggggXzv vbrklagv.knugvl g.uokqgwouvaszu
gggggXzvbrptgbmugxk agvl glvbszug.tgfvaavizugvl gfsz uz
gggggXzuvbgwzuasfwbrklgbkg.ugakgpkl gkpgklu’agkqlgkwrlrkla
gggggXzuvbuabgvwwzumularkla,gpzkfgbmrlxagslauul,gikliuvou 
gggggXzuvbuabgbvocuza,gpkzgbmugfkabgwvzb,g kglkbmrlxgbkgwszwkau
gggggXzuu tgmsfkszgkpgluqgvl gslclkqlgbmrlxa
gggggXzrupgwzknkcuagrbauop
gggggXzkaagrfwkabszuagkpgzuorxrkla
gggggXsuaagvbgkszgfuvlrlxgsl uzgxuluzvogvl g ks.bpsogbuzfa
gggggMvwwulgbkg kgvltbmrlxgikfful v.ou,gRgvbbzr.sbugrbgbkgpkzbslu
gggggMvz gbkgzuakonugvgfvl’agys xfulbgvxvrlabgbmugikffklgkwrlrkla
gggggMvabugbzrwagswgrbagkqlgmuuoa,gpubbuza,gvl gabkwagrbauop
gggggMvbugvoogakzbagkpgk.orxvbrklgvl gzuabzvrlb
gggggMvbugzufu ruagbmvbgvzugfkzugbzks.ouakfugbmvlgbmug rauvaugrbauop
gggggMvnugunuzgmv gvgxzuvbgzuawuibgpkzgmuzgRgoknu 
gggggMvnugfkzugqmuzuqrbmgbkg upzvtgftgykszlut,gbmvlgRgmvnugqvtgbkgxk
gggggMvnuglkgkbmuzgbrbougoupbgfugbkgbmuaugbmrlxag.sbg.tgbmuguvza
gggggMvnugtksgunuzgpksl gvltgqmkgmvnug.uulg raavbrapru gqrbmg trlx?
gggggMvnrlxgbkkgxkk gvlgkwrlrklgkpgkszgkqlgqkzbm
gggggMugivllkbg.ugxkk ,gauurlxgmugraglkbgunrogunulgbkgbmugqricu 
gggggMug r glkbgbmrlcgfvlcrl gqkzbmtgkpgvgqraugfvl’agikliuzl
gggggMugpuobgvgwouvaszugvl g uorxmbgrlgakglk.ougvlgvibrkl
gggggMugys xu gkbmuzgfulg.tgmrfauop
gggggMugfvtgufwoktgmragwvaarkl,gqmkgivlgfvcuglkgsaugkpgmragzuvakl
gggggMugfvtgquoogxkgvgpkkb,gbmutgavt,gqmkgouv agmragmkzaugrlgmragmvl 
gggggMugfsabgpkkogrbgvgorbbougqmkgqkso glkbg.ug uufu gqmkootgvgpkko
gggggMugamkso g raiuzlgrlgmrfauop,gvagquoogvagrlgkbmuza
gggggMugbkkcgmrfauopgvoklxgqrbmgmrf
gggggMugqmkgpuvzagmugamvoogasppuz,gvozuv tgasppuzagqmvbgmugpuvza
gggggMugqmkgragklotgvgxkk gfvlgbmvbgfulgfvtgclkqgrb
gggggMugqmkgovtagbmugiokbmgragunuzgvbgbmugimvzxugkpgbmugpuvab
gggggMugqmkgornuagunuztqmuzu,gornuaglkqmuzu
gggggMugqmkgwzknr uagpkzgvoo,gwzknr uagpkzglkbmrlx
gggggMugqmkgabkwaglkbgbmugabvzbgqrooglunuzg.ugv.ougbkgabkwgbmugikszau
gggggMugqroogimkkaugbkg.ugvoklu
gggggMuv vimugamkso gikfug.upkzug zslculluaa
gggggMuvobmg uwul agswklgbmugnvlrbtgvl gpvoarbtgkpgbmurzgwzkfraua
gggggMuvobmgragvobuzu gvl gikzzswbu g.tgbmurzgpzuesulbgwzuaizrwbrkla
gggggMuvobmgbkg.ugqkzbmgwszimvarlxg.tgvoogbmugfkabgwvrlpsogivsbuzrua
gggggMuvzrlxgvgwmrokakwmuzgbvocgkpgfrorbvztgvppvrza
gggggMuvbgvl gabrzgswgbmurzgrfvxrlvbrkl,gvl gbmulgqugprl gpvsob
gggggMuow:glkgkbmuzguppuibgbmvlgbmvbgkpgoulxbmulrlxgftgasppuzrlx
gggggMrxmgbrfugbkg rugqmulgbmuzugragfkzugroogbmvlgxkk grlgornrlx
gggggMkvztgmuv gvl gzrnuoou gpviugkpgvlirulbgsavxu
gggggMk..uagavr gbmvbgrpgmugMv g.uulgvbgikoouxugvagoklxgvagkbmuza--
gggggMko gvgabrppgzurlgswklgasawrirkl
gggggMkfugvlhrubruagvl gvgfrl gulaovnu g.tgquvzrlxgikfwovrlba
gggggMkfuz:gBmugklotgqkz agbmvbgmvnugfkbrklgvl gvibrkl
gggggMklkszgkpgnvokszgiklarabagrlgprxmbrlx,glkbgrlgas. srlx
gggggMkqgrlprzfgvl g uivtrlxgfvbuzrvogbmragpv.zrigkpgkszagra
gggggMkqgfvltgvl gfvltgbrfuagmugmvag.uulgfrabvculgrlgmragkqlgys xfulb
gggggMkqgfvltgfkzugmvnug ru g.upkzugbmutgvzzrnu gvbgbmtgvxu
gggggMkqgfvltgaunuzvogqvtagmvag uvbmgbkgaszwzraugsa?
ggggg“Mkqgfvltgbmrlxa,”gavr gmu,g“Rg kglkbg uarzu!”
ggggggMkqgfvltgqkzbmtgfulgmvnugqugclkqlgbkgasznrnugbmurzgzuwsbvbrkl
gggggMkqgfsimguvaruzgragrbglkbgbkgulbuzgrlgbmvlgrbgragbkgxubgksb
gggggMkqgfsimgrbgikabagmrfgbkg kglkgqkzau
gggggMkqgfsimgfkzugrlaswwkzbv.ougvl gwvrlpsogvlgrffkzbvogorpu
gggggMkqgsliuzbvrlg szvbrklgbmuaugviir ulbvogiklnulruliuagvzu
gggggMsf.ougksbgkpgwzr u
gggggMsa.vl agmvbugbmurzgqrnuagklotg.uivsaugbmutgbmufauonuag kgqzklx
gggggRgvoqvtagprl gaswuzposrbtgaswuzposksa
gggggRgvfgvgorbbougbul uzotg rabzsabpsogkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgqram
gggggRgvfgvwbgbkg zuvfgbmvbgRg zuvf
gggggRgvfg raxsabu gqrbmgbmugqkzo gRgpzuesulb
gggggRgvfgmvz gbkg.ugxkbgksb,g.sbg.urlxgkliugswklgbmugzkv 
gggggRgvfglkgoklxuzgrlgikl rbrklgpkzgvltgxzuvbgimvlxu
gggggRgvfglkbgbkg.ugisppu grlbkg.uorup
gggggRgvfgwovrlgvl gmuvnt,gvl gabricgbkgbmugakor gvl gbmugwzk.v.ou
gggggRgvfgnuztgxov gbkgprl gbmugqvtg.uvbulg.upkzugfug.tgkbmuza
gggggRgvfgnuztgqroorlxgbkgesrbgbmugxknuzlfulbgkpgftgmksau
gggggRg.uesuvbmgbkgVzubusagbmugfvrlbulvliugkpgftgfkbmuz
gggggRgivlgfkzugmvz otg.uorunugvgfvl’agiklabvlitgbmvlgvltgnrzbsu
gggggRgivllkbgquoogzupsaugbkgwovtgqrbmgftg kx
gggggRgiklbulbgftauopgqrbmgulyktrlxgbmugqkzo gqrbmksbg.sabou
gggggRg vzuglkbgwzkfraug.sbgbmvbgRgfvtgklug vtg.ugakgfsimgvgpkko
gggggRg kglkbgiklar uzgqmvbgrbgraglkq,g.sbgqmvbgrbgqvagbmul
gggggRg kglkbgys xugkwrlrklag.tgtuvza
gggggRg kglkbgfsimgovfulbgbmug uv ,gvl gamkso gulntgbmufgzvbmuz
gggggRg kglkbgavtgbmvbg‘bragquoogavr ,g.sbgquoogbmksxmb
gggggRg kglkbgqroorlxotgvorxmbgqmulgRgvfgkliugklgmkzau.vic
gggggRgulbuzgrlbkgiklpr uliugqrbmg trlx
gggggRgunuzgysabotgpuvzu gbkgzvraugftgmuv gbkkgmrxm
gggggRgunuztg vtgmuvzgpkkoagavtgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkbgpkkoram
gggggRgprl gftauopgmuzugpubbuzu g.tgbmugovqagkpgiuzufklt
gggggRgprl glkgesvorbtgakguvatgbkgikslbuzpurbgvag unkbrkl
gggggRgpkzgftgwvzbgvoqvtagqulbgbmugwovrlgqvtgbkgqkzc
gggggRgxzs xuglkbmrlxg.sbgivzugvl gbzks.ou
gggggRgmv gfsimgzvbmuzg rugbmvlgornugswklgimvzrbt
gggggRgmv gzvbmuzg.ugko gvg.zrupgbrfu,gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugko gvxu
gggggRgmvrogvl givzuaagbzsbmgrlgqmvbgesvzbuzgakunuzgRgprl grb
gggggRgmvbugvoogakzbagkpgbtzvllt,g.kbmgrlgqkz gvl g uu 
gggggRgmvbugwknuzbtguesvootgqrbmgwvrl
gggggRgmvnugvgxzuvbgvnuzarklgpzkfgvglknuobt
ggggg“Rgmvnug kluglkbmrlxgbk- vt”--“Qmvb?gmvnugtksglkbgornu ?”
ggggggRgmvnugornu goklxuzg.tgbmragklug vtgbmvlgRgamkso gmvnug klu
gggggRgmvnuglkgfrl gbkg ru,g.sbgRgmvnuglkgk.yuibrklgbkg.ug uv 
gggggRgmvnuglkbgvgqrbgaswwougulksxmgbkgunv ugvgas  ulgesuabrkl
gggggRgmvnuglkbmrlxgkpgftgkqlgbmvbgavbrapruagftgys xfulb
gggggRgmklkszgbmkaugfkabgbkgqmkfgRgamkqgbmugouvabgmklksz
gggggRgovtglkgxzuvbgabzuaagswklgftgkwrlrkla;gkzgkpgkbmuza
gggggRgokkcgswklg uvbmgivzuouaaotgqmulgRgokkcgswklgrbgslrnuzavoot
gggggRgoknugabksbguhwzuaarklagvfklxabgxulbougful
gggggRgoknugbufwuzvbugvl gfk uzvbuglvbszua
gggggRgluu glkbgauucgvgpkkogpzkfgvpvz;gRgivlgovsxmgvbgftauop
gggggRgkqugrbgzvbmuzgbkgftgpkzbslugbmvlgftgzuvakl
gggggRgzuiurnug.sbgorbbougv nriu,gRgvoakgxrnug.sbgorbbou
gggggRgaikzlgbkgful gftauopg.tgmvonua
gggggRgauuglkgwukwougakgakklgaricgvagbmkaugqmkgbvcugwmtari
gggggRgawuvcgbzsbm,glkbgakgfsimgvagRgqkso ,g.sbgvagfsimgvagRg vzu
gggggRgbvcugmko gkp,gvagorbbougxokzrksagvl guhufwovztgvagtksgqroo
gggggRgsl uzabvl gftgfulgunulg.tgbmurzgarouliugvl gafroua
gggggRgqvagvoqvtagaswuzabrbrksaotgvpzvr gkpgxrnrlxgkppuliu
gggggRgqvagbkkgpzrxmbulu gbkg.ugroo
ggggg“Rgqramgtksgxkk gmuvobm”--“Lkgmuvobmgbkgbmuu”gzuworu gbmugkbmuz
gggggRgqkso gvagqroorlxotg.ugosictgvagqrau
gggggRgqkso g.ugzrimgkpgftauop,gvl glkbg.tg.kzzkqrlx
gggggRgqzrbugftg.kkcgpkzgpuqgfulgvl gpkzgpuqgtuvza
gggggR ouluaagragbkgfugvgnuztgwvrlpsogov.ksz
gggggR ouluaa,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgikzzswbrkl
gggggRpgvgwvaarklgkliugwzuwkaauaagvl gaurdugfu,grbgivzzruagfugvqvt
gggggRpgRgvfgbvocrlxgftg.uab,gqmkunuzgrlbuzzswbagfu,gabkwagfu
gggggRpgRgabvl grlgluu gkpgvlxuzgvl grlpovffvbrkl,gRg.kzzkqgrb
gggggRpgrbg.ugvg uorirksagfu rirlu,gbvcugrb
gggggRpgrbg.ugbmugqzrbuz’agqrbgkzg.kzzkqu gpzkfgakfugkbmuz
gggggRpglvbszug kglkbgmuowgvgorbbou,grbgragnuztgmvz 
gggggRpgbmutgivlgklotg.ugcrl gbkgsagksbgkpgwrbt
gggggRpgbmutgimkwgswklgklugbzsbm,gbmvbgivzzruagvgfrxmbtgzuwkzb
gggggRpgbmutgmuvzglkglkrau,gbmutgbmrlcgfulgaouuw
gggggRpgbkgwmrokakwmraug.u,gvag‘brag uprlu ,gbkg ks.b
gggggRxlkzvliug kuaglkbgkppul gfu,g.sbgbmugpkwwuztgkpgrb
gggggRfwkbuliruagbmvbgakgslauvaklv.otgaszwzraugbmugoknuz
gggggRoogosicgragxkk gpkzgakfubmrlx
gggggRfvxlugbmugfrxmbtgqrooglkbgv.vaugbmufauonuagakgfsimgvagbkgornu
gggggRfrbvbrlxgkbmuzgful’aglvbszua,gbmksgovtuabgvar ugbmtgkql
gggggRffk uzvbugurbmuzgauucrlxgkzgunv rlxgxokztgkzgzuwsbvbrkl
gggggRfwkaugbmufgswklgfugvagrlpvoor.ou
gggggRfwkabszua:gnuztgabzvlxuluaagoul agbmufgizu rb
gggggRfwzkwuzotgqugivoogbmragnkoslbvztg raakosbrkl,g uawvrz
gggggRfwslrbtgwvaagqrbmgsagpkzgysabriu
gggggRlgunuztbmrlxguoaugvgfvlgfvtgcuuwgakfug uikzsf
gggggRlgkz rlvztgpzrul amrwagRgvfgakfuqmvbgiko gvl gamt
gggggRlgakorbs u,g.ugikfwvltgpkzgbmtauop--Br.soosa
gggggRlgakzzkqgbmuzugragakfugfrhbszugkpgwouvaszu
gggggRlgbmugfuvlbrfu,gbmurzgmvonuagquzug.uxxrlxgvbgbmurzg kkza
gggggRlgbmragovabgaiulugkpg uvbm,gbmuzugraglkgfkzugikslbuzpurbrlx
gggggRlgbmkaug vta,gbmugbvrokzgbkkcgfuvaszugkpgrb
gggggRlgqvzglkbgbkg zrnugvlguluftgbkg uawvrz
gggggRliorlvbrklgbkgoknugklugvlkbmuzgvbgbmugprzabgarxmb
gggggRliorlvbrklgbkgnvzrubtgvl glknuobtgikffklgbkgsag.kbm
gggggRliorlugbmugmrabkztgbkgbmurzgkqlgpvlit
gggggRliklar uzvbuguhisauagvzugvgcrl gkpgauop-viisavbrkl
gggggRliklnulruliuagbmvbgfk uzvbrklg.zrlxag(rlgirnrogqvz)
gggggRl raizuubg uarzugkpgvgwzuaulbgiszu,gbmvbgakg.orl gsa
gggggRl kirougor.uzbtgkpgbmragfuf.uz
gggggRlesrarbrnugvpbuzgunuztbmrlx
gggggRlaular.ougkpgbmugabzkcugqmulgkszgtksbmg ruagrlgsa
gggggRlauzbgqmkougauibrklagvl gwvxuagksbgkpgvlirulbgvsbmkza
gggggRlbuoorxuliugragzuesrzu gbkg.ugv.ougbkgclkqgbmvbgvgfvlgclkqaglkb
gggggRlbufwuzvliugragbmugwuabgkpgwouvaszu
gggggRlbul u gbkgxubgvgluqgmsa.vl gbmvlgbkgovfulbgbmugko 
gggggRlbuz ribgvoogxrpbag.ubqrhbgfvlgvl gqrpu
gggggRlbuz ribrklgrlirbua,gvl gqmkgvzugfkzuguvxuz,g.urlxgpkz.r  ul
gggggRbg(ftg.kkca)gfvtgclkqgfvltgbmrlxagbmvbgvzugxklugpzkfgfu
gggggRbgmvwwula,gvagqrbmgivxua,gbmug.rz agqrbmksbg uawvrzgbkgxubgrl
gggggRbgrag.ubbuzgbkg rugbmvlgbkgornugfrauzv.ou
gggggRbgraglkgmvz gfvbbuzgbkgxubgimro zul
gggggRbgraglkbgvg.kkcgbkgzuv ,g‘bragvg.kkcgbkgabs tgvl gouvzl
gggggRbgraglkbgpkzgksbqvz gamkqgbmvbgbmugaksogragbkgwovtgrbagwvzb
gggggRb’agfv luaagbkglkszramgrlprzfrbt
gggggYuvoksat:glkgzufu tg.sbgporxmbgkzgwvbruliu
gggggYs xug.tgysabriu,gvl gimkkaugfulg.tgzuvakl
gggggYs xug.tgbmugutugkpgzuvakl,gvl glkbgpzkfgikffklgzuwkzb
gggggYs xfulbgkpg sbtgwzrlirwvootgoruagrlgbmugqroo
gggggYs xfulbgkpgxzuvbgbmrlxagragfvltgbrfuagpkzfu gpzkfgouaauzgbmrlx
gggggYsabriugvoagbvcuagikxlravliugkpgbmkaugqmkgxouvlgvpbuzgbmugzuvwuz
gggggCroorlxgragxkk gbkgpzsabzvbugvlgkppuliugbkgikfu,glkbgbkgzunulxu
gggggClkicgtksg kqlgqrbmgbmugvsbmkzrbtgkpgbmurzguhwuzruliu
gggggClkbgraglkbgakgaszugbmvbgvgfvlgfvtglkbgmvopgasawuibgrbgqroogaorw
gggggClkqou xugvl gbzsbmgfvtg.ugrlgsagqrbmksbgys xfulb
gggggClkqou xugraglkbgakgv.akosbuotgluiuaavztgvagys xfulb
gggggClkqou xugkpgkbmuza,gqmuzurlgbmugmklkszgiklaraba
gggggClkqlgunrogqvagunuzgfkzugaswwkzbv.ougbmvlgklugbmvbgqva,gluq
gggggOv ruagvzuglkgakkluzgksza,gbmvlgqugvzuglkgfkzugbmurza
gggggOvlxsvxu:gk.aiszugvl gslrlbuoorxr.ougrlgqrooagvl giklbzviba
gggggOvairnrksagwkub:gMkfuz
gggggOvabg uvbmgqroogcroog.sbgvgmvopgkzgvgesvzbuzgkpgvgfvl
gggggOvq:g.zuu uzgkpgvobuzivbrklgvl g rnrarkl
gggggOvqag(kpgWovbkgklgbzvnuo),gqmrimgpkz.r agrbgvpbuzgbmzuuaikzu
gggggOvqagivllkbgas.arabgqrbmksbgfrhbszugkpgrlysabriu
gggggOvqag kgqmvbgbmutgivl,gqmulgbmutgivllkbg kgqmvbgbmutgqkso 
gggggOvqagcuuwgswgbmurzgizu rb,glkbgpkzg.urlxgysab--.sbgvagovqa
gggggOvtgbmugpvsobgklgbmugnkriuagkpgbmkaugqmkgawuvcgbkgfu
gggggOvtrlxgbmufauonuagokqgbkgvnkr gbmug vlxuzgkpgpvoorlx
gggggOuvzlgftgkqlg u.rorbtgvl gbmugbzuvimuztgkpgftgsl uzabvl rlx
gggggOuvzlgbmugbmukztgpzkfgbmkaugqmkg.uabgclkqgbmugwzvibriu
gggggOuvzlgqmvbgrbgragzrxmbgbkgqram
gggggOuvzlrlxgrfwzknuagpkzbsluagulksxm,g.sbglkbgfrl a
gggggOuvabgul gkpgvgmvrzgqroogauznugbkg zvqgbmufgrlbkgftg raikszau
gggggOuvabgbksimgkzgwzricgkpgvgwulirogrlgikfwvzraklgkpgbmugqmkou
gggggOuvnugakirubtgqmulgqugivlglkgoklxuzgv  gvltbmrlxgbkgrb
gggggOuvnrlxglkbmrlxgslavr ,gmkqgmkfugvl g.rbbuzgakunuz
gggggOu g.tgbmuguvzag.tgbmragimvzfrlxgmvzfkltgkpgqkz a
gggggOul gmrfauopgbkgkbmuza,gvl gklotgxrnugmrfauopgbkgmrfauop
gggggOuaaulgbmugysabgnvosugkpgbmrlxagbmvbgRgwkaauaa
ggggg“Oubgvgfvlgbvcugqmrimgikszaugmugqroo,”gavr gmu;g“mugqroogzuwulb”
ggggggOubgmrfg.ugvagqraugvagmugqroo,gvpbuzgvoogmugrag.sbgvgfvl
gggggOubgmrfg.ugavbrapru gqrbmgikzzuibrlxgmrfauop
gggggOubgmrfguhvfrlugunuztgfvl’agbvoulb
gggggOubgrbgvoklugvgorbbou
gggggOubgrbg.ugwuzfrbbu gbkgbmugbrfr gbkgmkwu
gggggOubglkbgsagauucgroosarklagpzkfgqrbmksbgvl gslclkql
gggggOubgsaglkbg.ugvamvfu gbkgawuvcgqmvbgqugvzuglkbgvamvfu gbkgbmrlc
gggggOubgsaglkbgauucgkszg rauvaugksbgkpgkszauonua;g‘bragrlgsa
gggggOr.uzvorbtgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgkbmuza
gggggOr.uzbtgvl govdrluaa,gbmugesvorbruagfkabgwzu kfrlvlbgrlgfu
gggggOr.uzbtgkpgwknuzbt
gggggOr.uzbtgbkgouvl,g.sbglkbgbkgovtgkszgqmkougqurxmbgswklgkbmuza
gggggOr.zvzt:gBragbmuzugbmvbgRgvfgrlgftgcrlx kf
gggggOriulaugkpgys xfulbagragvgxzuvbg rabsz.vliugbkgxzuvbgvppvrza
gggggOrpugkpgIvuavzgmvaglkgxzuvbuzguhvfwougpkzgsagbmvlgkszgkql
gggggOrpugamkso g.ugisbgkppgrlgbmugaksl gvl gornrlxgwvzb
gggggOrxmbgxzrupagivlgawuvc:g uuwgakzzkqagvzug sf.
gggggOrxmbgwzkxlkabriagbmutgxrnugkpgbmufauonuagrlgbmurzgbul uzgtuvza
gggggOrbbougvppvrzagfkabg rabsz.gsa
gggggOrbbougclvicaggvl gpzrnkoksagas.boubrua
gggggOrbbougouvzlrlxgragluu u gbkgpkzfgvgaksl gfrl --Auluiv
gggggOrbbougouaagbzks.ougrlgxknuzlrlxgvgwzrnvbugpvfrotgbmvlgvgcrlx kf
gggggOrnugvgesrbugiklbzvztgakzbgkpgorpugbkgqmvbgbmutgwzuaizr.ugkbmuza
gggggOrnugvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgorpugrbauop
gggggOrnu,glkbgakgoklxgvagbmutgwouvau,g.sbgvagoklxgvagbmutgksxmb
gggggOrnrlxgragaovnuztgrpgbmugor.uzbtgkpg trlxg.ugqvlbrlx
gggggOrnrlxgquoo,gqmrimgkpgvoogvzbagragbmugxzuvbuab
gggggOovtrlxgbmugpvsobgswklgbmugwvbrulb,g.tgasimgpzrnkoksagzuvakla
gggggOk xuglkbmrlxgrlgmragpvlitgswklgarfwougvsbmkzrbtgvl gswklgbzsab
gggggOklxgvgnktvxugRgamkso gvbgovabgzslgftauopgrlbkgakfug rav nvlbvxu
gggggOklxgarbbrlxagvbgbv.oug.kbmgbzks.ougfugvl g kgfugmvzf
gggggOklxgbkouzvbrklg.uxubagmv.rb;gmv.rb,giklaulbgvl grfrbvbrkl
gggggOkkcgklg uvbmglkbgklotgqrbmksbgvabklramfulbg.sbgqrbmksbgivzu
gggggOkkcgswklgbmufauonuagvagvgbmrz gwuzaklgklot,gvgabzvlxuz
gggggOkkc,gtksgqmkgbmrlcgbmugxk agmvnuglkgivzugkpgmsfvlgbmrlxa
gggggOkaugqmvbgRgmvnugvgwvzbrisovzgivzugbkgokicgavpugsw
gggggOkauagfkzug.tg upul rlxgmragnrlutvz gbmvlgrpgmugxvnugrbgsw
gggggOknugragbmugvwwubrbugkpgxuluzvbrklg.tgbmugfu rvbrklgkpg.uvsbt
gggggOknugamvfupsootgvl g ramkluabotgiszu g.tgfvzzrvxu
gggggOknugbmufgbmugouaagpkzgkszgkqlgpvsoba
gggggOknugqug.uvzgbkgkszgqrnuagragnuztgovqpso
gggggOknu,gpsoo,gornuot,gvl gamvzw;gvgwouvaszugrlpovfu g.tg rpprisobt
gggggOknu gbmufgpkzgkszgawkzb,gorcugfklcuta,gvl glkbgvagful
gggggOkquzgmrfauopgbkgbmugfuvlluaagkpg upul rlxgmragrllkiuliu
gggggFv ugvoogfu rirlvogikliosarklagovzxuotgxrnugqvtgbkgftgwouvaszu
gggggFvcrlxgbmurzgv nvlbvxugkpgkszgpkoot,gpkzgfkabgfulg kgbmugavfu
gggggFvoriugfsabg.ugufwoktu gbkgikzzuibgbmragvzzkxvlbgrxlkzvliu
gggggFvoriugasicagswgbmugxzuvbuabgwvzbgkpgrbagkqlgnulkf
gggggFvorirksagcrl gkpgysabriu
gggggFvlg(fsab)ggclkqgbmvbgmugragmragkql
gggggFvlgvpbuzggqmkgmuo gksbgmragwsoaugbkgvgwmtarirvlgqvagvgpkko
gggggFvlgivlglunuzg.ugqraug.sbg.tgmragkqlgqra kf
gggggFvlgfvtgavtgbkkgfsimgunulgswklgbmug.uabgas.yuiba
gggggFvlgfvtgqrbmgouaagbzks.ougv vwbgmrfauopgbkgulbrzugv.abrluliu
gggggFvlgfsabgvwwzkvimgmragqrpugqrbmgwzs uliugvl gbufwuzvliu
gggggFvlgfsabgmvnugvgivzuglkbgbkg kgmragfvabuzgakgxzuvbgauznriu
gggggFvlgfsabgouvzlgbmvbgmugraglkbmrlxg.sbgvgpkko
gggggFvlgzslagvgnuztgxzuvbgmvdvz grlgbmurzgmvl ag(kpgwmtarirvla)
gggggFvzcgkpgarlxsovzgxkk glvbszugbkgwzuauznugko gvxu
gggggFvzzrvxu
gggggFvzzrvxugzuyuibagbmugikfwvltgvl gikl rbrklagkpgoknu
gggggFuovlimkot:gVzugbmuzuglkbgakfugiklabrbsbrklagbmvbgpuu gswklgrb?
gggggFufkzruagvzugpsoogulksxm,g.sbgbmugys xfulbgbkbvootgnkr 
gggggFulgvwwzknugkpgbmrlxagpkzgbmurzg.urlxgzvzugvl gluq
gggggFulgvzuglkbgvoqvtagbkgzuotgswklgbmugwuzaklvogiklpuaarkla
gggggFulgvagkpbulgikfful gvagsl uznvosugfug.utkl gzuvakl
gggggFulgfvcugbmufg(bmugzsoua)gqrbmksbgbmurzg(qkful’a)gmuow
gggggFulgfsabguf.vzc,gvl glkbg uor.uzvbu,gswklgmrxmgulbuzwzraua
gggggFulgamkso gpszlramgbmufauonuagqrbmgasimgbmrlxagvagqkso gpokvb
gggggFuziulvzruagqmkgqkso gzuiurnugvltg(wvt)
gggggFuzirpsogbkgbmugfvl,g.sbglkbgbkgmragqricu luaa--Vzrabkbou
gggggFubmrlcagRgvfglkgfkzugbmvlgmvopgkpgftauop
gggggFubmrlcagRgwzkfraugrb,grpgRg.sbgavtgrb
gggggFrzviou:gunuztbmrlxgkszgzuvaklgivllkbgikfwzumul 
gggggFrzviouagvl gabzvlxugunulbagmvnugikliuvou gbmufauonuagpzkfgfu
gggggFrzviouagvwwuvzgbkg.ugak,gviikz rlxgbkgkszgrxlkzvliugkpglvbszu
gggggFrauzv.ougcrl gkpgzufu t,gbkgkqugklu’agmuvobmgbkgklu’ag rauvau!
gggggFrauzv.ou,gqmkgmvaglkbgvbgmkfugqmuzugbkg.ug.tgmrfauop
gggggFrapkzbsluagbmvbgklotgmszbgsag.tg.urlxgclkql
gggggFrhgzvrorlx,grl raizubrkl,gvl gpsztgrlgmrag rawsbvbrkla
gggggFk uzvbrklgragvgnrzbsugbmvbgxrnuagfkzugqkzcgbmvlgasppuzrlx
gggggFk uabtgragvgpkkoramgnrzbsugrlgvlgrl rxulbgwuzaklg(Mkfuz)
gggggFkzugv kgbkgrlbuzwzubgrlbuzwzubvbrkla
gggggFkzug.kkcagswklg.kkcagbmvlgswklgvltgkbmuzgas.yuib
gggggFkzug.zvnugfulg.uulgokabgrlgkiivarklagkpgorbbougfkfulb
gggggFkzugakorirbksagbmvbgfulgawuvcgkpgsa,gbmvlgmkqgbmutgawuvc
gggggFkzugaswwkzbv.ougbkg.ugvoqvtagvoklugbmvlglunuzgbkg.ugak
gggggFkzugnvosu gvgnribkztgk.bvrlu g.tgikslauogbmvlg.tgpkziu
gggggFkzkarbtgvl gfuovlimkorigmsfkszgkpgvgakszgroo-lvbszu gwu vlb
gggggFkabgizsuogwukwou,gvl gswklgpzrnkoksagkiivarkla,gvwbgbkgizt
gggggFkabgfulgvzugzrimgrlg.kzzkqu gaspprirulit
gggggFkabgfulg kglkbgakgfsimg.uorunugvagbmutgviesruaiugvl gwuzfrb
gggggFkabgkpgftgvibrklagvzugxsr u g.tguhvfwou,glkbg.tgimkriu
gggggFkbmuzagvzugbkkgbul uz
gggggFkbrnugbkgakfugnrirksagkiivarklgkzgakfugwzkawuibgkpgwzkprb
gggggFsimg.ubbuzgbkgkppul gmrfgkliugbmvlgftauopgunuztg vt
gggggFsimg rppuzuliug.ubqrhbgsagvl gkszauonua
gggggFsabgpkzgbmugfkabgwvzbgulbuzbvrlgkszauonuagqrbmgkszauonua
gggggFsabgkpgluiuaarbtgqvocgrlgbmugabuwagkpgvlkbmuz
gggggFtgvppuibrklgvobuza,gftgys xfulbg kuaglkb
gggggFtg.kkca:gpzkfgfugmko gbmvbgqmrimgRgmvnuglkbgzubvrlu 
gggggFtg kxgslauvaklv.otgrfwkzbsluagfugbkgwovt
gggggFtgpvlitg kuaglkbgxkg.tgrbauop,gvagqmulgftgouxagfknugrb
gggggFtgmsfkszgraglkgpzrul gbkgbsfsob
gggggFtgmsfkszgragslprbgurbmuzgbkgawuvcgkzgqzrbugpkzg.uxrlluza
gggggFtgrllkiuliugragvgarfwougklu;gorbbougnrxkszgvl glkgvzb
gggggFtgfrl graguvarotgikfwkau gvbg rabvliu
gggggFtgzuvaklgraglkbgk.orxu gbkg.kqgvl g.ul ;gftgcluuagvzu
gggggFtgbmksxmbagaouuwgrpgRgarbgabroo
gggggFtgqkz ag kuag.sbgrlyszugbmugoknugRgmvnugikliurnu gqrbmrl
gggggLvbszvog uvbmgbmugfkabgzvzugvl gnuztgauo kfgauul
gggggLvbszugkpgys xfulbgbkgmvnugrbgfkzug uor.uzvbugvl gfkzugaokq
gggggLvbszugkpgqrbgragbkgmvnugrbagkwuzvbrklgwzkfwbgvl gas  ul
gggggLvbszu,gqmkgoupbgsagrlgasimgvgabvbugkpgrfwuzpuibrkl
gggggLuvzuabgbkgbmugkwrlrklagkpgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgbmutgmvnugbkg k
gggggLuxorxulbgxvz.,gqmrimgragtubgk.auznv.ougvfklxabgbmugtkslxgful
gggggLurbmuzg.ugvg.sz ulgbkgftauopglkzgbkgvltgkbmuz
gggggLurbmuzgiklbrlulitglkzgnrzbsugqmuzugbmuzugvzuglkgkwwkarlxg uarzu
gggggLurbmuzgfulglkzgbmurzgornuagvzugfuvaszu g.tgbmuguoo
gggggLurbmuzgbmugikszvxugbkg ruglkzgbmugmuvzbgbkgornu
gggggLunuzgvltgfvlgcluqgakgfsim,gvl gawvcugakgorbbou
gggggLunuzg r gbqkgfulgfvcugbmugavfugys xfulbgkpgbmugavfugbmrlx
gggggLunuzgk.auznu gvltgxzuvbgabv.rorbtgrlgftgaksogbkgzuarabgwvaarkla
gggggLunuzgkwwkaugbmufgurbmuzg.tgqkz gkzgarxl,gmkqgpvoaugkzgv.asz 
gggggLunuzgzuwzuaulbgbmrlxagbkgtksgarfwotgvagbmutgvzu
gggggLunuzgawkcugkpgftgfklut,g.sbgpvoauot,gvagkbmuzag k
gggggLuqgQkzo :gako grbgkwrlrklagvl gkszgvzbagvbgvgnuztg uvzgzvbu
gggggLlklugbmvbgouaagcuuwgbmurzgwzkfrau(bmvlgwmtarirvla)
gggggLkgvoikmkogbmuglrxmbgklgqmrimgvgfvlgrlbul agbkgxubgimro zul
gggggLkg.uvabgrlgbmugqkzo gakgfsimgbkg.ugpuvzu g.tgfvlgvagfvl
gggggLkg vlxuzgqrbmgbmuf,gbmksxmgbmutgfvtg kgsaglkgxkk 
gggggLkg krlxgfkzug rpprisobgbmvlgbmvbglkbg krlx,glkzgfkzugvibrnu
gggggLkguppuibgkpgnrzbsu,gbkgmvnugabzklxuzgvzfagvl gouxa
gggggLkgunrogragmklkszv.ou;g.sbg uvbmgragmklkszv.ou
gggggLkguhiuooulbgaksograguhufwbgpzkfgvgfrhbszugkpgfv luaa
gggggLkgxzuvbgimkriug.ubqrhbglkbgclkqrlxgbkgawuvcgvltbmrlxg.sbgroo--
gggggLkgfvlgiklbrlsuagroogoklxg.sbg.tgmragkqlgpvsob
gggggLkgfvlgragpzuugpzkfgawuvcrlxgpkkoramgbmrlxa
gggggLkgfvlgfkzugiuzbvrlgbmvlgvlkbmuzgkpgbk-fkzzkq--Auluiv
gggggLkgluiuaarbtgswklgvgfvlgbkgornugrlgluiuaarbt
gggggLkgklugivlg.ugivoou gmvwwtgbroogmugrag uv gvl g.szru 
gggggLkgkbmuzgpksl vbrklgkzgaswwkzbgbmvlgws.origv.sau
gggggLkgwvaarklgakgiklbvxrksagvagbmvbgkpgpuvz
gggggLkgwmtarigbmvbgmvaglkbgakfubmrlxgmszbpsogrlgrb
gggggLkgsaugbkgbmragvxu,gRgbmzkqgftauopg.vicgswklgbmvbgkbmuz
gggggLkgqvtgpksl ggbkgbzvlesroorbtgbmvbgragxkk grlgikffkl
gggggLk.ougvl gzrim,gqmuzuguhvfwouagkpgnrzbsugvzugzvzuotgok xu 
gggggLk.k tgwzkxlkabrivbu gbmvbgRgamkso g.ugqricu ,g.sbgklotgsauouaa
gggggLkraugkpgvzfag uvpulu gbmugnkriugkpgovqa
gggggLklugkpgbmugauh,goubgmuzg.ugvagsxotgvagbmug unrogbmrlcagoknv.ou
gggggLkzgxubgimro zulg.sbg.upkzugRgaouuw,glkzgxubgbmufgabvl rlx
gggggLkzgmvnugkbmuzgbrugswklgklugvlkbmuz,g.sbg.tgkszgqkz 
gggggLkauxvtgkpgpkzurxlgpokquza,gmvnrlxgpszlramu glkbmrlxgkpgftgkql
gggggLkbgvgnribkztgbmvbgwsbaglkbgvlgul gbkgbmugqvz
gggggLkbg.urlxgv.ougbkgxknuzlgunulba,gRgxknuzlgftauop
gggggLkbg.uorunugpzkfgklu,gRgamkso glkbg.uorunugpzkfgvgmsl zu 
gggggLkbgiuzbvrlgbkgornugbroogRgivfugmkfu
gggggLkbgikliurnrlxgbmrlxagkbmuzqraugbmvlg.tgbmragksbqvz g.vzc
gggggLkbgiklios ugbkkgfsimgswklgtkszgfrabzuaa’agrlnrkov.ougimvabrbt
gggggLkbgpkzgvltgwzkprb,g.sbgpkzgbmugmklkszgkpgmkluabtgrbauop
gggggLkbgmvnrlxg.uulgv.ougbkgwzklksliugklugatoov.ou,gqmrimgragLk!
gggggLkbgrlgvgikl rbrklgbkgoul gfsabgpkz.r gmrfauopgbkg.kzzkq
gggggLkbgfuovlimkori,g.sbgfu rbvbrnu
gggggLkbgbkgrlabzsibg.sbgbkg.ugrlabzsibu 
gggggLkbgqvlb,g.sbgzvbmuzgv.sl vliu,gbmvbgizuvbuagvnvzriu
gggggLkbmrlxgivlg.ugvgxzrunvliugbmvbgrag.sbgkliu
gggggLkbmrlxgpvooagqmuzugvoogpvooa
gggggLkbmrlxgragfkzugiklpr ulbgbmvlgvg.v gwkub
gggggLkbmrlxgragakgprzfotg.uorunu ,gvagqmvbgqugouvabgclkq
gggggLkbmrlxgragakgaswwougvl guzzvbrigvagkszgsl uzabvl rlx
gggggLkbmrlxglk.ougivlg.ugwuzpkzfu gqrbmksbg vlxuz
gggggLkbmrlxgwzuaauagakgmvz gswklgvgabvbugvagrllknvbrkl
gggggLkbmrlxgakgxzkaaot,glkzgakgkz rlvzrotgpvsobt,gvagbmugovqa
gggggLkbmrlxgbufwbagftgbuvzag.sbgbuvza
gggggLkbmrlxgbmvbgakgwkraklagvagpovbbuzt
gggggLsf.uzgkpgpkkoagakgfsimguhiuu agbmugqrau
gggggKgVbmulrvla,gqmvbgbmragfvlgavta,gRgqroog k
gggggKgftgpzrul a,gbmuzugraglkgpzrul :gVzrabkbou
gggggKgqzubimu gful,gqmkaugwouvaszuagvzugvgizrfu
gggggK,gbmugpszrksagv nvlbvxugkpgkwwkzbslrbt!
gggggK.u ruliugraglunuzgwszuglkzgivofgrlgmrfgqmkgzuvaklagvl g rawsbua
gggggK.orxu gbkgmragvxugpkzgmvnrlxgquvlu gmrfgpzkfgwouvaszu
gggggK.auznu gbmugovqagkpgfvzzrvxu,gbmvlgRgurbmuzgwzkfrau gkzguhwuib
gggggK.abrlvitgvl giklbulbrklgvzugikffklgesvorbrua
gggggK.abrlvitgragbmugarabuzgkpgiklabvlit
gggggK.abrlvlitgvl gmuvbgrlgvzxsfulbgvzugbmugaszuabgwzkkpagkpgpkoot
gggggK.abrlvbugrlgxzkqrlxgqkzau
gggggKiivarklgbkgOvg.kubrugbkgqzrbugmrag“NkoslbvztgAuznrbs u”
ggggggKiivarklagkpgbmugouvabgosabzugvzugunuzgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa
gggggKiiswtgkszgbmksxmbagv.ksbgbmugxuluzvo,gvl gv.ksbgslrnuzavogivsau
gggggKpgbmugpouubrlxgtuvzaguvimgabuvoagakfubmrlxgpzkfgfu
gggggKppriugkpgfvxlvlrfrbtgkwulotgvl gwzkpuaau otgbkgoknugvl gmvbu
gggggKpbulbrfuagvxrbvbu gqrbmg rnuzagwvaarkla
gggggKo gvxu:gvwwovs gbmugwvabgvl gikl uflgbmugwzuaulb
gggggKo gfulgqmkgzubvrlgbmugfufkztgkpgbmrlxagwvab
gggggKfrb,gvagrlizu r.ou,gasimgbmrlxagvagbmutg kglkbgsl uzabvl 
gggggKlgvoogkiivarklagbkgiklbzv ribgvl gkwwkau
gggggKlug kkzgrlbkgorpu,g.sbgvgmsl zu gbmksavl gqvtagksb
gggggKlugfvtg.ugmsf.ougksbgkpgwzr u
gggggKlugfvtgfkzug.ko otg vzugqmvbglk.k tgbmrlcagtksg vzu
gggggKlugfvtgzuxzubg.ubbuzgbrfua,g.sbgivllkbgpotgpzkfgbmugwzuaulb
gggggKlugfsabgprzabgclkqgqmvbgragmragkqlgvl gqmvbgraglkb
gggggKlotg uarzugbkg.uikfugfkzugqrau,glkbgfkzugouvzlu gkzguokesulb
gggggKlotgauiszugmvz.kszgpzkfgbmugabkzfagvl gbufwuabagkpgorpu
gggggKlotgaubgbmugmsfkszagbmutgqkso gwszxugfkzugnrkoulbotgrlgqkzc
gggggKwulgawuvcrlxg zvqagksbg raiknuzrua,gorcugqrlugvl goknu
gggggKwrlrklagbmutgmvnugkpgbmrlxagvl glkbg.tgbmugbmrlxagbmufauonua
gggggKwrlrklagqugmvnugvzugbvculgklgvsbmkzrbtgvl gbzsab
gggggKwwkarbrklgvl giklbzv ribrklgulbuzbvrlgvl glkszramgbmuf
gggggKwbrklglkqgkpgiklbrlsrlxgrlgorpugkzgkpgikfwoubrlxgbmugnktvxu
gggggKz uzgvgwszxugpkzgtkszg.zvrl,grbgqroogbmuzug.ugfsimg.ubbuz
gggggKz uzgrbgakgbmvbgtkszgnrzbsugfvtgiklesuzgtkszgfrapkzbslu
gggggKz rlvliuagrbg(Fu rirlu)gpkrabagswklgsa
gggggKz rlvztgpzrul amrwa,gtksgvzugbkgqvocgqrbmg.zr ougrlgtkszgmvl 
gggggKz rlvztgfubmk gkpgiszugragivzzru gklgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgorpu
gggggKbmuzagv kzugvoogkpgbmurzgkqlgar u
gggggKsxmbglkbgklotgbkgmvnugmragmvl a,g.sbgmragutua,gbkk,gimvabu
gggggKsxmbglkbgbkguhwuibgfsimgurbmuzgpzkfgmragnrxrovliugkzgwkquz
gggggKsxmbgbkgqrbm zvqgvl gzubrzugmragaksogpzkfgbmugizkq 
gggggKszguhbzufuabgwouvaszugmvagakfugakzbgkpgxzkvlrlx
gggggKszgpvlitg kuagqmvbgrbgqroo,g.kbmgqrbmgrbauopgvl gsa
gggggKszgys xfulbagvzugtubgaric
gggggKszgysabriugwzuaulbagbkgsag.sbgklugmvl 
gggggKszgclkqou xu,gqmrimgragvgqzubimu gpksl vbrkl
gggggKszgesvorbruagmvnuglkgbrboug.sbgrlgikfwvzrakl
gggggKszgqroogragfkzugk.abrlvbug.tg.urlxgkwwkau 
gggggKnuz-irzisfawuibgvl gqvztgwzs uliugragvgfkzbvoguluft
gggggKnuznvosugbmrlxa,g.uivsaugbmutgvzugpkzurxl,gv.aulb
gggggKqugkszauonuagimrupotgvl gfkabotgbkgkszauonua
gggggWvaarklgmvagvgfkzugv.akosbugikffvl gknuzgsagbmvlgzuvakl
gggggWvaarklgmvagvozuv tgiklpksl u gmragys xfulb
gggggWvaarklgkpg vl orlxgvl givzuaarlxgrlpvlbagaivziuotg.kzl
gggggWvtgnuztgabzribgsasztgqmkg r glkbgrlg sugbrfugwvtgbmugwzrlirwvo
gggggWukwougvzugqroorlxgbkg.ugxsoou grlgqmvbgbmutg uarzu
gggggWukwougikliurnrlxgbmutgmvnugzrxmbgvl gbrbougbkg.ugys xua
gggggWuzpuibgpzrul amrwgRgawuvcgkpgragrl rnrar.ou
gggggWuzpuibgfulgvagbmutgvzu,gbmutgvzugtubgarfwotgful
gggggWuzpuibrkl:g.sbgRgqrooglkbg.stgrbgakg uvzgvagrbgikaba
gggggWuzwubsvogaiko rlxgkpgmragqrpug(kpgAkizvbua)
gggggWubsovlbgfv luaagiklbul agqrbmgrbauop
gggggWmrokwkuful:gwvtrlxgbmugwulvobtgkpgftgsxorluaa
gggggWmrokakwmt
gggggWmrokakwmtgmvag raikszauagwzkwuzgpkzgimro mkk 
gggggWmrokakwmtgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgbkg ru
gggggWmrokakwmtgragbmvbgqmrimgrlabzsibagsagbkgornu
gggggWmrokakwmtgokkcu gswklgvagvgnvrlgvl gpvlbvabriglvfu
gggggWmsarirvlagiszug.tg.tgfrauztgvl gwvrl
gggggWmtari
gggggWmtarirvlgqkzaugwmtaricu 
gggggWmtarirvl:gwvaagbmzksxmgvoogbmug rauvauagmugwzubul agbkgiszu
gggggWmtarirvl’ag“muow”,gqmrimgragnuztgkpbulgvlgk.abviou
gggggWmtarirvlagvzuglkbgiklbulbgbkg uvogklotgqrbmgbmugaric
gggggWmtarirvlagpuvzgfulgamkso gvbgvltgbrfuguaivwugbmurzgvsbmkzrbt
gggggWmtarirvlagquzugbmugklotgfulgqmkgfrxmbgorugvbgwouvaszu
gggggWmtarirvla:guvzbmgiknuzagbmurzgpvroszua
gggggWrlimgbmugauizubgabzrlxagkpgkszgrfwuzpuibrkla
gggggWrbrpsogqvtagvl guhwu rulbagbkgbmugysxxouzagkpgbmugovq
gggggWrbtgragzuwsbu gvgnriugvfklxabgbmugAbkria
gggggWovbkgvlxztgvbguhiuaagkpgaouuwrlxgbmvlgvbguhiuaagkpg zrlcrlx
gggggWovbkgpkz.r agimro zulgqrlugbroogurxmbuulgtuvzagkpgvxu
gggggWovbkgavr gkpgbmugUxtwbrvla,gbmvbgbmutgquzugvoogwmtarirvla
gggggWovbkgavta,gbmvbgbmugxk agfv ugfvlgpkzgbmurzgawkzb
gggggWovbkgqroogmvnuglk.k tgfvzztg.upkzugbmrzbt
gggggWovbk:govqtuzagvl gwmtarirvlagvzug.v grlabrbsbrklagkpgvgikslbzt
gggggWovtagkpgimro zulgvzuglkbgwuzpkzfu grlgwovt
gggggWouvarlxgvoo:gvgfvzcgbmvbgivlglunuzg.ugvrfu gvbgkzgmrb
gggggWouvaszugkpgbuoorlxg(vgwouvaszugorbbougrlpuzrkzgbkgbmvbgkpg krlx
gggggWkaauaarklg.uxubagvgiklbufwbgkpgqmvbgrbgmko agvl gzsoua
gggggWzvibrivogYkcua:gBragslmvl akfugbkgprxmbgrlgwovt
gggggWzuvimuzagnuztgkpbulgqkzcgfkzugswklgbmurzgvs rbkztgbmvlggzuvakla
gggggWzupviugbkg.zr.ugbmug.ulunkouliugkpgbmugikszbuksagzuv uz
gggggWzupuzgrlg.u ,g.uvsbtg.upkzugxkk luaa
gggggWzupuzzrlxgbmugslrnuzavogvl gikffklgbrugbkgvooglvbrklvogbrua
gggggWzufu rbvbrklgkpg uvbmgragbmugwzufu rbvbrklgkpgor.uzbt
gggggWzuwvzugkszauonuagvxvrlabgbmugwzuwvzvbrklagkpg uvbm
gggggWzuaulbgMrfgasimgqkz agvagbmugfufkztgasxxuabagbkgbmugbklxsu
gggggWzuaulbgmrfauopgqrbmgvgmvobuzgv.ksbgmragluicgbkgbmugwukwou
gggggWzuasfwbrnugclkqou xug.tgarouliu
gggggWzubul rlxgbkgprl gksbgbmugivsaugkpgunuztgviir ulb
gggggWzruabgamvoogklgbmugqu  rlx- vtgkwulgbmugqvtgbkgbmug.zr u
gggggWzkiuu gakgoklxgvagbmuzugamvoog.ugrlcgvl gwvwuzgrlgbmugqkzo 
gggggWzkpuaarklgkpgclkqou xugvl gbmurzgrffuvaszv.ougauop-ikliurb
gggggWzkprbgfv ugklotgvbgbmuguhwulaugkpgvlkbmuz
gggggWzkoklxgmragorpugvoakgwzkoklxu gvl gvsxfulbu gmragwvrl
gggggWzkoklxgtkszgfrauztgvlgmkszgkzgbqk
gggggWzs ulbgvl gysabgfvlgfvtg.ugrlbufwuzvbugvl grliklarabulb
gggggWzs ulbgfvl,gqmulgRgrfvxrlugmrfgrlgbmragwkabszu
gggggWavofagkpgCrlxg vnr :gwzkfraisksa,grl raizuub
gggggWs.origquvogzuesrzuagbmvbgfulgamkso g.ubzvt,gvl goru
gggggWsuzrougarfworirbruagkpgkszgimro zul
gggggWszugikqvz riugbmvbgfvcuagkszg.uorupgakgworv.ou
gggggWsbgsagrlbkgvgqvtgkpguhbul rlxgvl g rnuzarptrlxg rpprisobrua
gggggWtzzmk’agmkx
gggggEsrubgzuwkaugvl gvgwzkpksl gaouuwgqrbmksbg zuvfa
gggggZvxugikfwuoou gbkguhisaugrbauopg.tgvgwzubuliugkpgxkk -qroo
gggggZvxugrbgwsbagbmufgbkgkwwkaugarouliugvl giko luaagbkgbmurzgpszt
gggggZvamgvl grliuaavlbgaiko rlxgzslagrlbkgisabkf
gggggZvbmuzg.ugvgouaagqmrougko gbmvlg.ugko g.upkzugRgvfgzuvootgak
gggggZvbmuzgikfwovrlgkpgroo-pkzbslugbmvlg.ugvamvfu gkpgnribkzt
gggggZvbmuzgwzvbrlxgkpgvlkbmuzgfvl’agwzknrliugbmvlgmragkql
gggggZuv rlxgbmkaug.kkca,giklnuzaugqrbmgbmugxzuvbgvl gmuzkrigaksoa
gggggZuvaklagkpbulgvlbrirwvbugbmuguppuib
gggggZuikfful vbrklgkpgabzvlxuluaa,gzvzrbt,gvl g uvzgwszimvau
gggggZupsarlggbkgysabrpt,guhisau,gkzguhwovrlgftauop
gggggZuxzubgakgmklkszv.ougvgwkab,gqmuzugluiuaarbtgfsabgfvcugbmufg.ko 
gggggZufkbuabgqrbluaagclkqagfkzugv.ksbgrbgbmvlgbmkaugqmkgquzugluvzuab
gggggZuwzuaulbu gmuzgvgorbbougbkkgwvaarklvbugpkzgvgfvzzru gNulsa
gggggZuwsbvbrkl:gfkabgsauouaa,gpzrnkoksa,gvl gpvoaugikrlgbmvbgwvaaua
gggggZuwsbugpkzgnvosugrlgbmuf,glkbgqmvbgbmutg.zrlxgbkgsa
gggggZuauznugvg.vicamkw,gqmkootgkszgkqlgvl gulbrzuotgpzuu
gggggZuakonu gbkg.zrlxglkbmrlxgbkgrbg.sbguhwuibvbrklgvl gwvbruliu
gggggZuabgavbrapru ,gqrbmksbg uarzugkpgwzkoklxvbrklgkpgorpugkzglvfu
gggggZuabkzrlxgqmvbgmvag.uulgoulbgsa,gqrbggsasztgvl gviiuaarkl
gggggZunulxugfkzugqksl agkszgimro zulgbmvlgrbgmuvoagsa
gggggZunulxu,gqmrimgvpbuzqvz agwzk siuagvgauzruagkpgluqgizsuobrua
gggggZunuzaugkpgbzsbmgmvagvgmsl zu gbmksavl gpkzfa
gggggZmubkzri:gvlgvzbgbkgpovbbuzgvl g uiurnu
gggggZmubkzri:gbkgxknuzlgvg rakz uzotgvl gbsfsobsksagzv..ou
gggggZrimuzgbmvlgqugbmrlcgqugvzu;g.sbgqugvzugbvsxmbgbkg.kzzkq
gggggZr risoksag uarzugkpgzrimuagqmulgqugmvnugokabgbmugsaugkpgbmuf
gggggZrxmbgkpgikffvl gvwwuzbvrlagbkgbmug.uvsbrpso-Vzrabkbou
gggggZkfugqvagfkzugnvorvlbg.upkzugamugxzuqgakgouvzlu 
gggggZkquzagqmkgakgv nvliug.vicqvz 
gggggZs ugvl gesvzzuoakfugpovbotgbkg ultgvgabvbu gpvib
gggggAvfugpkootgvagbkg.ugakzztgqugquzuglkbgvornugvgmsl zu gtuvzagvxk
gggggAvbrapvibrklgkpgfrl gbkgmvnugklotgklugwvbmgbkgqvocgrl
gggggAvbrapru gvl gwouvau gqrbmgvl grlgbmufauonua
gggggAvtgkpgakfugikfwkarbrklagbmvbgbmutgabrlcgkpgkrogvl gkpgbmugovfw
gggggAizvbimrlxgragklugkpglvbszu’agaquubuabgxzvbrprivbrkla
gggggAuvaklgvg ulrvogqrbmgvawuzrbt,gasawulau,gkzgpvnksz
gggggAuugmkqgpouhr.ougkszgzuvaklgra
gggggAuucgbmugesv zvbszugkpgbmugirziou,gunulgqmulgklgbmurzgqrnua
gggggAuufrlxgvlxuz,gpkzgbmug.ubbuzgxknuzlrlxgkpgftgmksau
gggggAul gsagbkgbmug.ubbuzgvrzgkpgakfugkbmuzgikslbzt
gggggAulau:glkgklugqmkgraglkbgiklbulbu gqrbmgmragamvzu
gggggAubbrlxgbkkgxzuvbgvgnvosugswklgkszauonua
gggggAubbrlxgbkkgorbbougvgnvosugswklgkbmuza
gggggAubbou gftgbmksxmbagbkgornugswklgouaagbmvlgRgmvnu
gggggAuh:gBkgwsbgpkkoagvl gqraugful,g.uvabagvl gsa,gklgvgounuo
gggggAmvcugbmugbzsbmgkpgkszgImszimg.tgbmugnriuagkpgmuzgfrlrabuza
gggggAmvfugpkzgfugbkgauznu,g.urlxgakgluvzgbmugzuvimgkpgor.uzbt
gggggAmvzwagvl gaquubagkpgfvzzrvxu,gvzugcuwbgauizubg.tgbmugqrau
gggggAmugqmkgklotgzupsaua,g.uivsaug‘bragpkz.r  ul,giklaulba
gggggAmuobuzgftgkqlgquvcluaagsl uzgbmuaugxzuvbgzuwsbvbrkla
gggggAmkzbgkpgbmugpkzufkab,g.sbg.upkzugbmugovab
gggggAmkso gprzabgmvnugful u gbmurzg.zuuimua
gggggArouliu,gbmuzupkzu,gvl gfk uabtgvzugnuztgv nvlbvxuksagesvorbrua
gggggAroulbgfrulgwzkiszu gbmugizu rbgkpgwzs uliugvl givwvirbt
gggggArlagbmvbgfvcugbmugouvabglkraugvzugbmugqkzab
gggggArbbrlxg.ubqrhbgbqkgabkkoa
gggggAovnua,gkzguhroua,gkpbbrfuagornugvagfuzzrotgvagkbmuzgpkoc
gggggAouuwgasppkivbuagvl gaswwzuaauagbmugpvisobruagkpgbmugakso
gggggAfrougswklgsagqmroabgqugvzugvornu
gggggAkgvsabuzugvl gnuztgqraugikslbulvliugvl givzzrvxu--kpgwmtarirvla
gggggAkgfvltgbzroorklagkpgful,g.szru g.upkzugsa
gggggAkgfsimgvzugfulgulaovnu gbkgbmurzgfrauzv.oug.urlx
gggggAkgbmvbgRgikso gmvnugavr glkgqkzaug.umrl gbmurzg.vica
gggggAkgquvcgvl govlxsramrlx,gvaglkbgbkgmvnugunulgqramrlxgoupbgbkgmrf
gggggAkizvbuagcuwbgvgiklpksl u gaiko rlxgqrpu
gggggAkizvbua:gViikz rlxgbkgqmvbgvgfvlgivl
gggggAkpb,guvat,gvl gqmkouakfugwrookqgragrxlkzvliugvl grliszrkarbt
gggggAkoklgavr gbmvbguvbrlxgqvagwmtarigvxvrlabgbmugfvov tgmslxuz
gggggAkokl,gbmvbglklugivlg.ugavr gbkg.ugmvwwtgslbrogmugrag uv 
gggggakfugwukwougzs u,g.tg.urlxgknuzirnroggrlgbmurzgikszbuat
gggggAkfugqrnuagiknubksagrl uu ,g.sbgnuztgpuqgbmvbgvzugxkk gfvlvxuza
gggggAkfubrfuagbmug.k tgprzabgas.frbagbkgvxu,gakfubrfuagbmugfrl 
gggggAksoagbmvbgvzugzuxsovzgvl gabzklxgkpgbmufauonuagvzugzvzu
gggggAwvzrlxgvl gvlgmsa.vl gkpgmragclkqou xu
gggggAwuvcgouaagkpgklu’agauopgbmvlgqmvbgklugzuvootgragragpkoot
gggggAwuibvbkzagivlgiovrfglkgrlbuzuabgrlgbmugmklkszgvl gwouvaszu
gggggAbrowkgokabgqrpu,gimro zul,gvl gxkk a
gggggAbrowk:gbmvlcgXk ,glkbmrlxgqvagokabgkpgmra
gggggAbzvlxuotgasawuibgvoogbmragfuzimvl rau:gfu rivogivzu
gggggAbzklxgfufkztgragikffklotgikswou gqrbmgrlprzfgys xfulb
gggggAbs ru ,gqmulgtkslx,gpkzgkabulbvbrkl,glkqgpkzg rnuzarkl
gggggAbs rua,gbkgbuvimgfugbkg k,gvl glkbgbkgqzrbu
gggggAbs tgfvcuagfugaular.ougmkqgfsimgRgmvnugbkgouvzl
gggggAbs tgkpg.kkcagragvgovlxsramrlxgvl gpuu.ougfkbrkl
gggggAbs tgbkg uiovzugqmvbgragysabriu,g.sbglunuzgbkkcgivzugbkg kgrb
gggggAbsf.ougswklgvgbzsbmgvfklxabgvlgrlprlrbuglsf.uzgkpgorua
gggggAbswr rbtgvl gpvirorbtglvbszvogbkgbmugikffklgwukwou
gggggAbtougqmuzuqrbmgfulguabv.oramgzuorxrklagvl govqa
gggggAs. rnr rlxgbmuaugas.brobruagqugbuvimgfulgbkgrlizuvaugbmurzg ks.
gggggAsimgvgzuirwugvagbmutgqrooglkbgbvcugbmufauonua
gggggAsppuzgftgys xfulbgbkg.ugfv ugivwbrnug.tgwzuwkaauaarkl
gggggAsppuzgbmkaugrliklnulruliuagqmrimgvzuglkbgwkaar.otgbkg.ugvnkr u 
gggggAspprirulbotgiknuzu g.tgbmurzgnrzbsugqrbmksbgvltgkbmuzgzk.u
gggggAsrir u:gvgfkzauogbmvbgragbkg.ugaqvookqu gqrbmksbgimuqrlx
gggggAswuzabrbrksaotgbkgauucgksbgrlgbmugabvzagbmugvlirulbgivsaua
gggggAquoogvl gwsppgswgbmurzgaksoa,gvl gbmurzglvbszvogqvtgkpgawuvcrlx
gggggAqrfgrlgbzks.ou gqvbuzagqrbmksbgpramrlxgrlgbmuf
gggggBvcugvgwouvaszugrlg.urlxgslrlbuzuabu grlgkbmuzgful’agvppvrza
gggggBvcugvoogbmrlxagvbgbmugqkzab,gvl gbkgzuakonugbkg.uvzgbmvbgqkzab
gggggBvcugftgovabgouvnugkpgunuztgwoviugRg uwvzbgpzkf
gggggBvcugbqkgakzbagkpgxzrabgksbgkpgbmugavfugavic
gggggBvcrlxgbmrlxagswklgbzsabgpzkfgnsoxvzgkwrlrkl
gggggBvsxmbgbkg.ugvpzvr gkpgwzkpuaarlxgkszgrxlkzvliu
gggggBvsxmbgbkgiklar uzgaouuwgvagvgzuauf.ovliugkpg uvbm
gggggBuvzrlxgvg.k tgorf.gpzkfgorf.g.tgzvicagvl gbkzfulba
gggggBuabrfkltgkpgbmugbzsbmgpzkfgfrl agwzuwkaauaau g.tgisabkf?
gggggBmvbgmugikso glurbmuzgzuv glkzgaqrf
gggggBmvbgokkcagvglriugquoo-fv ugamkugbkgtks
gggggBmvbgqugfvtgornu,gqugiuvaugbkgornu
gggggBmvbgqmrimgikqvz riugrbauopgmvagimkaulgpkzgrbagzupsxu
gggggBmugvibrklgragikfful v.ou,glkbgbmugfvl
gggggBmugvxugqugornugrlgwzk siuag.sbgnuztgrl rppuzulbgbmrlxa
gggggBmugvsbmkza,gqrbmgqmkfgRgiklnuzau
gggggBmug.v.toklrvlagivzzru gbmurzgaricgrlbkgbmugws.origaesvzu
gggggBmug.uabgvsbmkzagbkkgfsimgmsf.ougvl g raikszvxugfu
gggggBmug.r.ou:gbmugqricu gvl grxlkzvlbgxzkqgqkzaug.tgrb
gggggBmugivsaugkpgbzsbmgksxmbgbkg.ugbmugikffklgivsau
gggggBmugikl sibgkpgkszgornuagragbmugbzsugfrzzkzgkpgkszg kibzrlu
gggggBmugiklauesuliugkpgikffklguhvfwoua
gggggBmug vtgkpgtkszg.rzbmgragklug vt’agv nvliugbkqvz agbmugxzvnu
gggggBmug uv uabg uvbmagvzugbmug.uab
gggggBmugunulbgkpbulgysabrpruagvgnuztgpkkoramgikl sib
gggggBmugpvrlbluaagbmvbgaszwzrauagrlgbmuguhuzirauagkpgNulsa
gggggBmugxk agauoogsagvoogbmugxkk agbmutgxrnugsa
gggggBmugxkk gkwrlrklgkpgbmugnsoxvzgragrlyszrksa
gggggBmugmklkszgqugzuiurnugpzkfgbmkaugbmvbgpuvzgsagraglkbgmklksz
gggggBmugrxlkzvlbgzubszlgpzkfgbmugikf.vbgpsoogkpgyktgvl gbzrsfwm
gggggBmugrfwsoaugkpglvbszu,gqmrimgragvgzksxmgikslauookz
gggggBmugovabgrlpkzfu grag.ubbuzgwuzasv u gbmvlgbmugprzab
gggggBmugfuvlgrag.uab
gggggBmugfrl gxzkqagikabrnugvl gbmricgrlgxzkqrlxgko 
gggggBmugfkabgfvlrpuabgarxlgkpgqra kfgragvgiklbrlsvogimuuzpsoluaa
gggggBmugfkabgnkoslbvztg uvbmgragbmugprluab
gggggBmugwvzbrisovzguzzkzgprzabgfvcuagbmugws.origuzzkz
gggggBmugwu uabvograglkgwvzbgkpgbmugabvbsu
gggggBmugwzrnrouxugkpgbmugfrl gbkgzuaisugrbauopgpzkfgko gvxu
gggggBmugzuqvz gkpgvgbmrlxgquoog klugragbkgmvnug klugrb
gggggBmugavbrubtgkpgornrlx,grliorluagvgfvlgbkg uarzugbkg ru
gggggBmugaricgfvlgmvaglkbgbkgikfwovrlgqmkgmvagmragiszugrlgmragaouunu
gggggBmugabkzfgragklotg.uxkbg.tgvgikliszzuliugkpgvlxuza
gggggBmugbmrlxgrlgbmugqkzo gRgvfgfkabgvpzvr gkpgragpuvz
gggggBmugnuztglvfugOr.uzvorbtgaksl agkpgOr.uzbt
gggggBmugnriugkwwkarbugbkgiszrkarbtgragluxorxuliu
gggggBmugnrzbsugkpgbmugaksog kuaglkbgiklarabgrlgpotrlxgmrxm
gggggBmurzg raxsrauagvl gprxszuagklotgauznugbkgikaulgpkkoa
gggggBmurzgov.kszgraglkbgbkg uornuzt,g.sbgv.ksbgikliuwbrkl
gggggBmurzgwribszuagvzuglkbgmuzugqmkgquzugivabgvqvt
gggggBmurzgaksoagauucgzuwkaugrlgvxrbvbrkl
gggggBmuzugvzug upuvbagfkzugbzrsfwmvlbgbmvlgnribkzrua
gggggBmuzugvzugakfugswklgqmkfgbmurzgzrimgiokbmuagquuw
gggggBmuzugivlg.uglkgwouvaszugbkgfugqrbmksbgikffslrivbrkl
gggggBmuzugragfkzugbzks.ougrlgcuuwrlxgfklutgbmvlgrlgxubbrlxgrb
gggggBmuzugraglkgvooszufulbgorcugfk uabt,grpgrbg.uglkbgzs u
gggggBmuzugraglkgoklx,glkzgamkzb,gbkgbmrlxagbmvbgvzuglkgfkzu
gggggBmuzugraglkgfuzimvlbgbmvbgvoqvtagxvrla
gggggBmuzugraglkgzuvaklgbmvbgmvaglkbgrbagiklbzvzt
gggggBmuzugraglkgzuikfwulaug.uikfuagnrzbsu
gggggBmuzugraglklugkpgsagqmkgqkso glkbg.ugqkzaugbmvlgcrlxa
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgRgmvbugakgfsimgvag zrnrlxgvg.vzxvrl
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgorcugvooszrlxgbmugvwwubrbugvl gvppuibrkla
gggggBmuzugraglkbmrlxgarlxougvl gzvzugrlgzuawuibgkpglvbszu
gggggBmuaugaouuwt,gaosxxramgakzbgkpgfulgvzugkpbulgbmugfkabg vlxuzksa
gggggBmutg(xkk gqkful)gvzuglkbg.tgbmug kdul,gvagunuztgklugclkqa
gggggBmutg.uxrlgbkgbuvimgsagbkgornugqmulgqugmvnugvofkabg klugornrlx
gggggBmutg.ubbuzgiklesuzgsag.tgpotrlx
gggggBmutg.stgvgivbgrlgvgavic
gggggBmutgivlglurbmuzgoul glkzgxrnugvltbmrlxgbkgklugvlkbmuz
gggggBmutg kglkbgauugftgmuvzb,gbmutgauug.sbgftgikslbulvliu
gggggBmutguzzgvagfsimgqmkgbkkgfsimgpkz.uvzgNulsa
gggggBmutgxulbotglvfugbmuf,gakgbmutgwvbrulbotgul szugbmufg( rauvaua)
gggggBmutgmvnugmuvz ,gbmutgmvnugauul,gbmutgmvnug klugakgvl gak
gggggBmutgmvnuglkbgklugfkzugrlnulbrklgoupbgqmuzuqrbmgbkgvfsaugsa
gggggBmutgmvnuglkbgbmugikszvxugbkgasppuzgbmufauonuagbkg.ugikzzuibu 
gggggBmutgmvnugtubgbksimu glkbmrlxgkpgbmvbgqmrimgragfrlu
gggggBmutgysxxougvl gbzrpougrlgvoogbmurzg raikszauagvbgkszguhwulau
gggggBmutgfsabg.ugnuztgmvz gbkgwouvau,grpgbmutgvzuglkbgiklbulbu 
gggggBmutgfsabg.uikfugrlaular.ougvl grlnrar.ougbkgavbraptgsa
gggggBmutglurbmuzgrlabzsibgsagbkgbmrlcgquooglkzgbkg kgquoo
gggggBmutglunuzgoknu gbmufgbroog uv 
gggggBmutgqmkgqkso gprxmbgisabkfgqrbmgxzvffvzgvzugbzrpouza
gggggBmrlxgvbgqmrimgqugvoogvrf,gunulgrlgnrzbsugragwouvaszu
gggggBmrlxagxzkqgpvfrorvzgbkgful’agfrl ag.tg.urlxgkpbulgauul
gggggBmrlxagRgavtgvzug.ubbuzgbmvlgbmkaugRgqzrbu
gggggBmrlxagkpbulgvwwuvzgxzuvbuzgbkgsagvbg rabvliugbmvlgluvzgvbgmvl 
gggggBmrlxagauufgxzuvbuzg.tgrfvxrlvbrklgbmvlgbmutgvzugrlguppuib
gggggBmrlxagbmvbgulxvxugsaguoauqmuzugvl gauwvzvbugsagpzkfgkszauonua
gggggBmrlcgftauopglkgoklxuzgqkzbmgftgkqlgivzu
gggggBmrlcgkpgwmtarigvagfsimgxkk gkzgroogvagvltgklugqkso gmvnugfu
gggggBmrlcrlxglkbmrlxg klu,grpgvltbmrlxgzufvrlu gbkg.ug klu
gggggBmrlcaglkbmrlxgwzkprbv.ougbmvbgraglkbgwvrlpso
gggggBmrag uivtgkpglvbszugqmrimgzul uzagmrfgsauouaa,g.sz ulakfu
gggggBmragwok  rlxgkiiswvbrklgkpg.kkcuagragvagwvrlpsoogvagvltgkbmuz
gggggBmkaugrffk uabgvl g u.vsimu gbzricagvl gwkabszua
gggggBmkaugkwwzuaau gqrbmgakzzkqgakfubrfuagaszwzrau g.tgvgafrou
gggggBmkaugqmrimgqugpuvzgbmugouvabgvzu,gwuzv nulbszu,gfkabgbkg.ugpuvz
gggggBmkaugqmkgivlgwouvaugvl gmsxgbmufauonuagrlgqmvbgbmutg k
gggggBmkaugqrbmrlg(fvzzrvxu)g uawvrzgkpgxubbrlxgksb
gggggBmksg ruabg.uivsaugbmksgvzbgornrlx
gggggBmksgqrobglkbgpuuogrbgoklxgrpgbmksgpuuouabgrbgbkkgfsim
gggggBmksxmgRg.ugulxvxu gbkgklugpkzfu,gRg kglkbgbrugbmugqkzo gslbkgrb
gggggBmksxmglk.k tgamkso gzuv gfu,gmvnugRgqvabu gbrfu
gggggBmzuvbagkpgbmug vtgkpgys xfulb
gggggBmsit r ua:gqmrimgqvagbmug.ubbuzgqzuabouz
gggggBmtgkqlgikqvz riugragbmugivsau,grpgbmksgornuabgrlgwvrl
gggggBragvoogaqrlu’agpouam,gnvzru g.tgavsiua
gggggBragvlguhvibgorpugbmvbgfvrlbvrlagrbauopgrlg sugkz uzgrlgwzrnvbu
gggggBrag.ubbuzgbkgouvlgbkqvz ag ks.bgbmvlgvaaszvliu--Vsxsabrlu
gggggBragunrogikslauogbmvbgqroogv frbglkgimvlxu
gggggBragpvzg.utkl glkbgpuvzrlxg uvbmgbkgbvabugvl gzuoramgrb
gggggBragpkzgtksbmgbkgas.yuibgrbauopgbkgikffklgkwrlrkla
gggggBragrfwkaar.ougbkg uvogpvrzotgqrbmgvgpkko
gggggBragrlgakfugakzbgvgcrl gkpg trlxgbkgvnkr gbmugwvrlgkpgornrlxgquoo
gggggBragfkzugovs v.ougbkgk.utgbmug.v gbmvlgbmugxkk 
gggggBraglkgfvbbuz;grbgfvtg.ugkpgsaugbkgakfugkbmuza
gggggBraglkbgbmugivsau,g.sbgbmurzgrlbuzuab,gbmvbgrlpovfuagbmuf
gggggBraglkbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgful,g.sbgbmuglsf.uzgkpgxkk gful
gggggBragavr gkpgUwrfulr ua,gbmvbgmugvoqvtagwzkwmuaru g.vicqvz 
gggggBragakgRgfuobgvl gabuvogvqvtgpzkfgftauop
gggggBragbmugamvzwlaagkpgkszgfrl gbmvbgxrnuagbmugu xugbkgkszgwvrla
gggggBragbmulglkgoklxuzgikzzuibrkl,g.sbgzunulxu
gggggBragbmuzugamugbvocagwovrlgPzulim
gggggBrbroovbrklgkpgroo-lvbszu gwouvaszugrlgauurlxgkbmuzagasppuz
gggggBrbougkpg.vz.vzrafgbkgunuztbmrlxgbmvbgraglkbgpvfrorvz
gggggBrbouag.urlxgakg uvzotg.ksxmb
gggggBrbouagkpgftgimvwbuzag kglkbgvoqvtagikfwzumul gbmugqmkougfvbbuz
gggggBkg.ugvgaovnu,grliuaavlbotgbkg.ugou g.tgbmuglkaug.tgklu’agauop
gggggBkg.u,glkbgbkgauuf
gggggBkgikl uflgbmufgvagrfwkaar.ou,grag.tgvgbufuzvzrksagwzuasfwbrkl
gggggBkgiklbuflgqmvbgqug kglkbgikfwzumul 
gggggBkg rugkpgko gvxugragvg uvbmgzvzu,guhbzvkz rlvzt,gvl garlxsovz
gggggBkg kgquoogqmuzugbmuzugqvag vlxuzgqvagbmugwzkwuzgkppriu
gggggBkgpkz.uvzg krlxgragkpbulgvagxuluzksagvagbkg k
gggggBkgpkz.r gsagvltbmrlxgragbkgfvcugsagmvnugvgfrl gbk’b
gggggBkgpzubgvl gnuhgvbgpkoot,gvagRg k,gragpkootgrbauop
gggggBkgxrnugvgiszzulitgbkgmragorbbougwrbbvliugkpgouvzlrlx
gggggBkgxkgvgfrougksbgkpgbmurzgqvtgbkgmkkcgrlgvgprlugqkz 
gggggBkgcuuwgfugpzkfg trlxgraglkbgrlgtkszgwkquz
gggggBkgcroogful,gvgiouvzgvl gabzklxgorxmbgragzuesrzu 
gggggBkgclkqg.tgzkbu,graglkgclkqou xu
gggggBkgfvcugorbbougbmrlxagvwwuvzgxzuvbgqvagmragwzkpuaarkl
gggggBkgfvcugbmurzgwzrnvbugv nvlbvxugvbgbmugws.origuhwulau
gggggBkgafuoo,gbmksxmgquoo,gragbkgabrlc
gggggBkgabs tgwmrokakwmtgraglkbmrlxg.sbgbkgwzuwvzugklu’agauopgbkg ru
gggggBkgqmvbgpzrul g vzugtksgrlbzsabgtkszgxzrupa
gggggBkgqmkfglkgklugragroogqmkgivlg.ugxkk ?
gggggBklxsugqroogxzkqgbkkgabrppgbkg.ul 
gggggBkkgiklbufwbr.ougbkg.ugwslramu 
gggggBkzbszu:gzvbmuzgvgbzrvogkpgwvbruliugbmvlgkpgbzsbm
gggggBkbvootg.zsbrpru g.tgvlgrffk uzvbugbmrzabgvpbuzgclkqou xu
gggggBzvlapuzzrlxgkpgfklutgpzkfgbmugzrxmbgkqluzagbkgabzvlxuza
gggggBzvnuogqrbmglkbgklotgvgluiuaavzt,g.sbgvgmvl akfuguesrwvxu
gggggBzsugor.uzbtgragbkg.ugv.ougbkg kgqmvbgvgfvlgqroogqrbmgmrfauop
gggggBzsotgmu,gqrbmgvgxzuvbguppkzbgqroogamkzbotgavtgvgfrxmbtgbzrpou
gggggBzsbmgrbauopgmvaglkbgbmugwzrnrouxugbkg.ugawkculgvbgvoogbrfua
gggggBzsbm,gbmvbgpkzg.urlxgko uzgrbgraglklugbmugqrauz
gggggBszcagmvnugvofagvl gmkawrbvoagpkzg.uvaba
gggggBszlgswgftgutuagbkgmuvnulgbkgzubszlgbmvlca,gbmvlgbkgizvnu
gggggBsbkzgbkgbmugrxlkzvliugvl gpkootgkpgbmugprzabgqugfuub
gggggBqvagvgmvwwtgfvzzrvxug.ubqrhbgvg.orl gqrpugvl gvg uvpgmsa.vl 
gggggBqulbtgwukwougwzvbrlxgv.ksbgmrfgqmulgmugragvbgabkko
gggggBqkgkwrlrklagvorcu,glkgfkzugbmvlgbqkgmvrza
gggggBqkgwzrlirwvogxsr rlxgzurlagvzugzuqvz gvl gwslramfulb
gggggBtzvllrigakszluaaglkbgbkgul szugvgpkzfgiklbzvztgbkgklu’agkql
gggggBtzvllrivogvsbmkzrbtgwmtarirvlagsaszwgknuzgwkkzgizuvbszua
gggggSl.uikfrlxgzs uluaagbkgivzwgvbgunuztbmrlx
gggggSl uzgpkzbslu’agpvnksz,gbkgwzuwvzugftauopgpkzgmuzg raxzviu
gggggSlrnuzavogys xfulbagbmvbgRgauugakgikffkl,garxlrptglkbmrlx
gggggSlysabgys xuagkpgbmurzgvibrkla,gvagbmutgvzugkpgksza
gggggSlysabgbkguhvibgpzkfgfugqmvbgRg kglkbgkqu
gggggSwklgbmugwzuirwriu,g‘braglkgfvbbuzgqmkgxvnugtksgbmugwsam
gggggSaugnuroagpzkfgsagbmugbzsugvawuibgkpgbmrlxa
gggggSbrorbtgkpgornrlxgiklarabaglkbgrlgbmugoulxbmgkpg vta
gggggNvokszgmvagrbag.ksl agvagquoogvagkbmuzgnrzbsua
gggggNvokszgqmubbu gvl gulzvxu g.tgfraimvliu
gggggNvokszgqroogivsaugvgbzuf.orlxgrlgbmugorf.agvagquoogvagpuvz
gggggNvosrlxgbmugrlbuzuabgkpg rairworlu
gggggNvabg rabrlibrklg.ubqrhbg unkbrklgvl giklairuliu
gggggNulbszugrbgswklgmraglurxm.ksz,grpgmugqroogoubgmrf
gggggnulbszugbmugfvcrlxgkszauonuag.ubbuzgqrbmksbgvltg vlxuz
gggggNuztgr uvgqugrlnulbgpkzgbmurzgimvabrbtgragzr risoksa
gggggNriugkpgiklprlrlxgbmurzg.uorupgbkgbmurzgkqlgivwvirbt
gggggNriuagqroogiorlxgbkxubmuz,grpgvgfvlgmvnuglkbgvgivzu
gggggNribkzrksagulnru gbmugiklesuzu 
gggggNrzbsugvl gvf.rbrkl,gslpkzbslvbuot,gauo kfgok xugbkxubmuz
gggggNrzbsugragvgwouvavlbgvl gxvtgesvorbt
gggggNrzbsugragfsimgabzulxbmulu g.tgikf.vba
gggggNrzbsugzupsauagpvirorbtgpkzgvgikfwvlrkl
gggggNrair gfuobrlxgcraauagkpgtksbmpsogvz kszgrlgftgqvlbklgvxu
gggggNkriugvl g ubuzfrlvbrklgkpgbmugzv..ou,gbmugfkbmuzgkpgrxlkzvliu
gggggNsoxvzgzuwkzbagvl gkwrlrklagbmvbg zrnugsagkl
gggggQugvzugfvabuzagkpglkbmrlxg.sbgbmugqroo
gggggQugvzuglkbgbkgys xugkpgikslauoag.tgunulba
gggggQugvacgfkabgqmulgqug.zrlxgouvab
gggggQug.uorunugqug kglkbg.uorunu
gggggQugivlglunuzg.ug uawrau gviikz rlxgbkgkszgpsoog uauzb
gggggQugivllkbg.ug.ksl g.utkl gqmvbgqugvzugv.ougbkgwuzpkzf
gggggQugiklpuaagkszgrxlkzvliugrlgfvltgbmrlxa
gggggQugiklar uzgkszg uvbmgvagvgnuztgxzuvbgbmrlx
gggggQug kglkbgikzzuibgbmugfvlgqugmvlx;gqugikzzuibgkbmuzag.tgmrf
gggggQug kglkbguvarotgviiuwbgbmugfu rirlugqugsl uzabvl 
gggggQug kglkbgxk,gqugvzug zrnul
gggggQug kglkbgakgfsimgpkzavcugnriuagvagqugimvlxugbmuf
gggggQugmvnugornu gulksxmgpkzgkbmuza
gggggQugmvnugfkzugiszrkarbtgbmvlgivwvirbt
gggggQugmvnuglvbszvootgvgpuvzgkpgwvrl,g.sbglkbgkpg uvbm
gggggQugmvnuglkbgbmugbmksavl bmgwvzbgkpgvlirulbgqzrbrlxa
gggggQugmvnugbvsxmbgbmugov ruagbkg.osam
gggggQugfsimgfkzugvwbotgrfvxrlugvlgvzbravlgswklgmragiokau-abkko
gggggQugfsabgouvzlgbkgasppuzgqmvbgqugivllkbgunv u
gggggQuglurbmuzgauugpvzgpkzqvz glkzgpvzg.vicqvz 
gggggQugklotgov.kszgbkgabsppgbmugfufkzt
gggggQugksxmbgbkgxzvlbgpzuugwvaavxugbkg rauvaua
gggggQugavtgvgxkk gfvzzrvxug.uivsauglkgklugavtagbkgbmugiklbzvzt
gggggQugaubgbkkgfsimgnvosugswklgkszauonua
gggggQugabroogivzztgkszgpubbuzagvoklxgqrbmgsa
gggggQugbvcugkbmuzgful’agclkqou xugvl gkwrlrklagswklgbzsab
gggggQuvcluaagvl grlabv.rorbtgkpgvgwzrnvbugvl gwvzbrisovzgpvlit
gggggQurxm,gvagqrau:gfulgamkso ,gbmug.sz ulgkpgk.orxvbrkl
gggggQuoo,gvl gqmvbgrpgrbgmv g.uulg uvbmgrbauop?
gggggQuzugfkzugvf.rbrksagkpgvgxzuvbgzuwsbvbrklgbmvlgkpgvgxkk gklu
gggggQmvbgvgfvlgavtagamkso g.ugqmvbgmugbmrlca
gggggQmvbgvzug.uikfugkpgvoogkszg.zvnugwmrokakwmrivogwzuiuwba?
gggggQmvbgivlgbmutglkbg k,gqmvbg kgbmutgpuvzgbkg kg(pkzg.uvsbt)
gggggQmvbgivlgbmutgasppuzgqmkg kglkbgpuvzgbkg ru?
gggggQmvbg r gRgavt?ggbmvbgRgmvnu?gglk,gImzufua,gRgmv 
gggggQmvbgmug r g.tglvbszugvl gviir ulb,gmugivllkbg kg.tg uarxl
gggggQmvbgragfkzugviir ulbvogbmvlgzuwsbvbrkl?
gggggQmvbgfvtg.ug klugbk-fkzzkq,gfvtg.ug klugbk- vt
gggggQmvbgfkzu?ggbmutgorugqrbmgbmurzgoknuzagouvzlu ot
gggggQmvbgluu gmvnugbmutgkpgvltbmrlxg.sbgbkgornug.uoknu gvl gmklkszu 
gggggQmvbgakzbgkpgqrlugmugorcu gbmug.uab:g“Bmvbgkpgvlkbmuz”
ggggggQmvbgabuwgul agbmugluvzgvl gqmvbgabuwg.uxrlagbmugzufkbu
gggggQmvbgbmutgksxmbgbkg kgqmulgbmutgikfugbkg.ugful
gggggQmvbgqugmvnuglkbgauul,gqugvzugpkziu gbkgzuiurnugpzkfgkbmuzgmvl a
gggggQmvb,gamvoogakgfsimgclkqou xug.ugokab
gggggQmvbunuzgqvaglkbgkz rlvztg rub,gqvagrlabuv gkpgvg zsx
gggggQmulgRgbzvnuogRgmvnuglkbmrlxgbkgivzugpkzg.sbgftauop
gggggQmulgyuvoksatgaurduagbmuaugwkkzgaksoa
gggggQmulgbmurzgutuagxrnugbmugorugbkgbmurzgbklxsu
gggggQmulgbrfug.uxrlagbkgquvzgbmrlxagksbgkpgfufkzt
gggggQmulgqugmvnugxkbgrb,gqugqvlbgakfubmrlxguoau
ggggg“Qmulgqroogbmragfvlg.ugqrau,”gavr gmu,g“rpgmugragtubgouvzlrlx?”
ggggggQmulgtksgauugfugfknu gprzab,goubgfugvoklu,gzrxmbgkzgqzklx
gggggQmuzugbmugorkl’agacrlgragbkkgamkzb
gggggQmuzugbmurzgwzkprbgra,goubgbmufgbmuzugmvnugbmurzgwouvaszugbkk
gggggQmuzunuzgbmugfrl gragwuzwouhu ,grbgragrlgvlgulbrzug rakz uz
gggggQmroabgbmksgqvabgaroulb,gbmksgauufu abgbkg.ugakfugxzuvbgbmrlx
gggggQmrfwuzrlxgragkppularnugbkgbmugornrlxgvl gnvrlgbkgbmug uv 
gggggQmkg.tgbmurzgpkl luaagkpgakfugprlugaksl rlxgqkz 
gggggQmkgivlggpouugpzkfgmrfauop
gggggQmkg raiuzlglkgzrimuag.sbgrlgwkfwgvl gamkq
gggggQmkg kuaglkbg.kvabgkpgakfugzvzugzuirwu
gggggQmkguaivwuag.urlxgbvocu gkpgvbgbmugavfugzvbu
gggggQmkgunuzgavqgklugwmtarirvlgvwwzknugkpgvlkbmuz’agwzuaizrwbrkl
gggggQmkgmvagkliug.uulgvgnuztgpkko,gqrooglunuzgvpbuzg.ugnuztgqrau
gggggQmkgqkso gqurxmgmrfgqrbmksbgbmugmklkszgvl gxzvl uszgkpgmragul 
gggggQmkunuzguhwuibagwslramfulbgvozuv tgasppuzagrb
gggggQmkunuzgqroog.ugiszu gkpgrxlkzvliugfsabgiklpuaagrb
gggggQmkunuzgqroogivoogbkgfrl gbmuguhiuaagkpgmragwvabgvlxuz
gggggQmkakunuzg uawrauagmragkqlgorpu,gragvoqvtagfvabuz
gggggQmtg kgquglkbgrfrbvbugbmugZkfvlgvzimrbuibszu?
gggggQr ugkpgbmugfvzcgrlgys xrlxgkpgbmurzgkqlgqkzca
gggggQroorlxotgxrnugbmufgouvnugbkgovsxmgvpbuzgqugvzug uv 
gggggQroorlxotgaorwgbmugikoovzgkpgikffvl gswklgvltgwzubuliugqmvbunuz
gggggQra kfgmvagrbaguhiuaaua,gvl gmvaglkgouaagluu gkpgfk uzvbrkl
gggggQra kfgragpkootgbmvbg kuaglkbgviikffk vbugrbauopgbkgbmugikffkl
gggggQraugfvlgornuagvagoklxgvagmugksxmb,glkbgakgoklxgvagmugivl
gggggQraugfvlglunuzgokauagvltbmrlxgrpgmugmvnugmrfauop
gggggQraugfvlgbkgcuuwgvgisz.rlxgmvl gswklgbmugrfwubsagkpgpzrul amrw
gggggQraugfvtgouvzlgfkzugkpgpkkoa,gbmvlgpkkoagivlgkpgbmugqrau
gggggQraugqmkaugrlnuabu gfklutgragnrar.ougrlg.uvsbrpsognroova
gggggQrauzgqmkgklotgclkqgqmvbgragluu psogpkzgbmufgbkgclkq
gggggQrbmg.urlxgbkkgquoogRgvfgv.ksbgbkg ru
gggggQkfvlgqmkgxkuagbkg.u gbkgvgfvl,gfsabgwsbgkppgmuzgfk uabt
gggggQkfulgqmkgwvrlb,gwksliu,gvl gwovabuzgswgbmurzgzsrla
gggggQklbgbkgxrnugkbmuzagbmurzgorpu,gvl glkbgbkgzuiurnugrb
gggggQkzo gqmuzugoktvobtgkpgklu’agkqlgimro zulgragslclkql
gggggQkzaugul szugvlgroo-iklbzrnu gzk.ugbmvlgvlgroo-iklbzrnu gfrl 
gggggQkso gmvnugunuztgklugrlgmragwvzbtg.orl gkzgvg.okicmuv 
gggggQkso grlgbmragvppvrzgmvnugvgfvlgvgorbbougwovtgbmugauznvlb
gggggQzvlxorlxgvzzkxvliu,gqmkootg.uorunrlxgvl gbzsabrlxgrlgrbauop
gggggQzubimu gvl g vlxuzksagbmrlxgbkg uwul gswklgkbmuza
gggggQzrbugqmvbgmugclkqa,gvl gvagfsimgvagmugclkqa,g.sbglkgfkzu
gggggQzklxgbmugysabgar ugqmulgbmutgxkgv.ksbgbkgvaarabgrbgqrbmgpzvs 
gggggTubgvbgouvabgpkzgvf.rbrkl’agavcu,goubgsagzuyuibgvf.rbrkl
gggggTubg kgqugprl gvltgul gkpgbmugluu gkpgrlbuzwzubvbrlx?
gggggTksgvl gikfwvlrklgvzugbmuvbzugulksxmgbkgklugvlkbmuz
gggggTksgmvnugokabgvgxkk givwbvrl,gbkgfvcugkpgmrfgvg.v gxuluzvo
gggggTksgfvtgrl uu gfvcugfug rugvlgroog uvbm
gggggTksgfsabgprzabgauugsag ru
gggggTksgfsabgoubgtkszauopg kqlgbkgbmkaugqrbmgqmkfgtksgiklnuzau
gggggTkslxgvl gko g rugswklgbmugavfugbuzfa
gggggTkslxgvzugbkgfvcugbmurzgwzuwvzvbrkla,gbmugko gbkgulyktgbmuf





Ul gkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgU.kkcgkpgBmugUaavtagkpgFklbvrxlu,gIkfwoubu
.tgFrimuog ugFklbvrxlu

***gUL gKPgBMRAgWZKYUIBgXSBUL.UZXgU.KKCgBMUgUAAVTAgKPgFKLBVRXLU,gIKFWOUBUg***

*****gBmragprougamkso g.uglvfu g3600-0jbhbgkzg3600-0jdrwg*****
Bmragvl gvoogvaakirvbu gprouagkpgnvzrksagpkzfvbagqroog.ugpksl grl:
ggggggggmbbw://qqqjxsbul.uzxjlub/3/6/0/3600/

Wzk siu g.tg vnr gQr xuz

Sw vbu gu rbrklagqroogzuwoviugbmugwzunrksagklu--bmugko gu rbrkla
qroog.ugzulvfu j

Izuvbrlxgbmugqkzcagpzkfgws.orig kfvrlgwzrlbgu rbrklagfuvlagbmvbglk
klugkqlagvgSlrbu gAbvbuagikwtzrxmbgrlgbmuaugqkzca,gakgbmugPksl vbrkl
(vl gtks!)givlgikwtgvl g rabzr.sbugrbgrlgbmugSlrbu gAbvbuagqrbmksb
wuzfraarklgvl gqrbmksbgwvtrlxgikwtzrxmbgzktvobruajggAwuirvogzsoua,
aubgpkzbmgrlgbmugXuluzvogBuzfagkpgSaugwvzbgkpgbmragoriulau,gvwwotgbk
ikwtrlxgvl g rabzr.sbrlxgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcagbk
wzkbuibgbmugWZKYUIBgXSBUL.UZX-bfgikliuwbgvl gbzv ufvzcjggWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzxgragvgzuxrabuzu gbzv ufvzc,gvl gfvtglkbg.ugsau grpgtks
imvzxugpkzgbmugu.kkca,gslouaagtksgzuiurnugawuirprigwuzfraarkljggRpgtks
 kglkbgimvzxugvltbmrlxgpkzgikwruagkpgbmragu.kkc,gikfwotrlxgqrbmgbmu
zsouagragnuztguvatjggTksgfvtgsaugbmragu.kkcgpkzgluvzotgvltgwszwkau
asimgvagizuvbrklgkpg uzrnvbrnugqkzca,gzuwkzba,gwuzpkzfvliuagvl 
zuauvzimjggBmutgfvtg.ugfk rpru gvl gwzrlbu gvl gxrnulgvqvt--tksgfvtg k
wzvibrivootgVLTBMRLXgqrbmgws.orig kfvrlgu.kkcajggZu rabzr.sbrklgra
as.yuibgbkgbmugbzv ufvzcgoriulau,guawuirvootgikffuzirvo
zu rabzr.sbrklj



***gABVZB:gPSOOgORIULAUg***

BMUgPSOOgWZKYUIBgXSBUL.UZXgORIULAU
WOUVAUgZUV gBMRAg.UPKZUgTKSg RABZR.SBUgKZgSAUgBMRAgQKZC

BkgwzkbuibgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgfraarklgkpgwzkfkbrlxgbmugpzuu
 rabzr.sbrklgkpguouibzklrigqkzca,g.tgsarlxgkzg rabzr.sbrlxgbmragqkzc
(kzgvltgkbmuzgqkzcgvaakirvbu grlgvltgqvtgqrbmgbmugwmzvaug“Wzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx”),gtksgvxzuugbkgikfwotgqrbmgvoogbmugbuzfagkpgbmugPsoogWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgOriulaug(vnvrov.ougqrbmgbmragprougkzgklorlugvb
mbbw://xsbul.uzxjlub/oriulau)j


Auibrklg1jggXuluzvogBuzfagkpgSaugvl gZu rabzr.sbrlxgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
uouibzklrigqkzca

1jVjgg.tgzuv rlxgkzgsarlxgvltgwvzbgkpgbmragWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
uouibzklrigqkzc,gtksgrl rivbugbmvbgtksgmvnugzuv ,gsl uzabvl ,gvxzuugbk
vl gviiuwbgvoogbmugbuzfagkpgbmragoriulaugvl grlbuoouibsvogwzkwuzbt
(bzv ufvzc/ikwtzrxmb)gvxzuufulbjggRpgtksg kglkbgvxzuugbkgv.r ug.tgvoo
bmugbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulb,gtksgfsabgiuvaugsarlxgvl gzubszlgkzg uabzkt
voogikwruagkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcagrlgtkszgwkaauaarklj
Rpgtksgwvr gvgpuugpkzgk.bvrlrlxgvgikwtgkpgkzgviiuaagbkgvgWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcgvl gtksg kglkbgvxzuugbkg.ug.ksl g.tgbmu
buzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulb,gtksgfvtgk.bvrlgvgzupsl gpzkfgbmugwuzaklgkz
ulbrbtgbkgqmkfgtksgwvr gbmugpuugvagaubgpkzbmgrlgwvzvxzvwmg1jUj8j

1j.jgg“WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx”gragvgzuxrabuzu gbzv ufvzcjggRbgfvtgklotg.u
sau gklgkzgvaakirvbu grlgvltgqvtgqrbmgvlguouibzklrigqkzcg.tgwukwougqmk
vxzuugbkg.ug.ksl g.tgbmugbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulbjggBmuzugvzugvgpuq
bmrlxagbmvbgtksgivlg kgqrbmgfkabgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzca
unulgqrbmksbgikfwotrlxgqrbmgbmugpsoogbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulbjggAuu
wvzvxzvwmg1jIg.uokqjggBmuzugvzugvgokbgkpgbmrlxagtksgivlg kgqrbmgWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcagrpgtksgpkookqgbmugbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulb
vl gmuowgwzuauznugpzuugpsbszugviiuaagbkgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklri
qkzcajggAuugwvzvxzvwmg1jUg.uokqj

1jIjggBmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklg(“bmugPksl vbrkl”
gkzgWXOVP),gkqlagvgikfwrovbrklgikwtzrxmbgrlgbmugikoouibrklgkpgWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcajggLuvzotgvoogbmugrl rnr svogqkzcagrlgbmu
ikoouibrklgvzugrlgbmugws.orig kfvrlgrlgbmugSlrbu gAbvbuajggRpgvl
rl rnr svogqkzcgragrlgbmugws.orig kfvrlgrlgbmugSlrbu gAbvbuagvl gtksgvzu
okivbu grlgbmugSlrbu gAbvbua,gqug kglkbgiovrfgvgzrxmbgbkgwzunulbgtksgpzkf
ikwtrlx,g rabzr.sbrlx,gwuzpkzfrlx,g rawovtrlxgkzgizuvbrlxg uzrnvbrnu
qkzcag.vau gklgbmugqkzcgvagoklxgvagvoogzupuzuliuagbkgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx
vzugzufknu jggKpgikszau,gqugmkwugbmvbgtksgqroogaswwkzbgbmugWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgfraarklgkpgwzkfkbrlxgpzuugviiuaagbkguouibzklrigqkzcag.t
pzuuotgamvzrlxgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcagrlgikfworvliugqrbmgbmugbuzfagkp
bmragvxzuufulbgpkzgcuuwrlxgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfglvfugvaakirvbu gqrbm
bmugqkzcjggTksgivlguvarotgikfwotgqrbmgbmugbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulbg.t
cuuwrlxgbmragqkzcgrlgbmugavfugpkzfvbgqrbmgrbagvbbvimu gpsoogWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgOriulaugqmulgtksgamvzugrbgqrbmksbgimvzxugqrbmgkbmuzaj

1j jggBmugikwtzrxmbgovqagkpgbmugwoviugqmuzugtksgvzugokivbu gvoakgxknuzl
qmvbgtksgivlg kgqrbmgbmragqkzcjggIkwtzrxmbgovqagrlgfkabgikslbzruagvzugrl
vgiklabvlbgabvbugkpgimvlxujggRpgtksgvzugksbar ugbmugSlrbu gAbvbua,gimuic
bmugovqagkpgtkszgikslbztgrlgv  rbrklgbkgbmugbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulb
.upkzug kqlokv rlx,gikwtrlx,g rawovtrlx,gwuzpkzfrlx,g rabzr.sbrlxgkz
izuvbrlxg uzrnvbrnugqkzcag.vau gklgbmragqkzcgkzgvltgkbmuzgWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcjggBmugPksl vbrklgfvcuaglkgzuwzuaulbvbrklagikliuzlrlx
bmugikwtzrxmbgabvbsagkpgvltgqkzcgrlgvltgikslbztgksbar ugbmugSlrbu 
Abvbuaj

1jUjggSlouaagtksgmvnugzufknu gvoogzupuzuliuagbkgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx:

1jUj1jggBmugpkookqrlxgaulbuliu,gqrbmgvibrnugorlcagbk,gkzgkbmuzgrffu rvbu
viiuaagbk,gbmugpsoogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgOriulaugfsabgvwwuvzgwzkfrlulbot
qmulunuzgvltgikwtgkpgvgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcg(vltgqkzcgklgqmrimgbmu
wmzvaug“WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx”gvwwuvza,gkzgqrbmgqmrimgbmugwmzvaug“Wzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx”gragvaakirvbu )gragviiuaau ,g rawovtu ,gwuzpkzfu ,gnruqu ,
ikwru gkzg rabzr.sbu :

Bmragu.kkcgragpkzgbmugsaugkpgvltklugvltqmuzugvbglkgikabgvl gqrbm
vofkabglkgzuabzribrklagqmvbakunuzjggTksgfvtgikwtgrb,gxrnugrbgvqvtgkz
zu-saugrbgsl uzgbmugbuzfagkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOriulaugrlios u 
qrbmgbmragu.kkcgkzgklorlugvbgqqqjxsbul.uzxjlub

1jUj2jggRpgvlgrl rnr svogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcgrag uzrnu 
pzkfgbmugws.orig kfvrlg( kuaglkbgiklbvrlgvglkbriugrl rivbrlxgbmvbgrbgra
wkabu gqrbmgwuzfraarklgkpgbmugikwtzrxmbgmko uz),gbmugqkzcgivlg.ugikwru 
vl g rabzr.sbu gbkgvltklugrlgbmugSlrbu gAbvbuagqrbmksbgwvtrlxgvltgpuua
kzgimvzxuajggRpgtksgvzugzu rabzr.sbrlxgkzgwzknr rlxgviiuaagbkgvgqkzc
qrbmgbmugwmzvaug“WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx”gvaakirvbu gqrbmgkzgvwwuvzrlxgklgbmu
qkzc,gtksgfsabgikfwotgurbmuzgqrbmgbmugzuesrzufulbagkpgwvzvxzvwmag1jUj1
bmzksxmg1jUj7gkzgk.bvrlgwuzfraarklgpkzgbmugsaugkpgbmugqkzcgvl gbmu
WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgbzv ufvzcgvagaubgpkzbmgrlgwvzvxzvwmag1jUj8gkz
1jUj9j

1jUj3jggRpgvlgrl rnr svogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcgragwkabu 
qrbmgbmugwuzfraarklgkpgbmugikwtzrxmbgmko uz,gtkszgsaugvl g rabzr.sbrkl
fsabgikfwotgqrbmg.kbmgwvzvxzvwmag1jUj1gbmzksxmg1jUj7gvl gvltgv  rbrklvo
buzfagrfwkau g.tgbmugikwtzrxmbgmko uzjggV  rbrklvogbuzfagqroog.ugorlcu 
bkgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgOriulaugpkzgvoogqkzcagwkabu gqrbmgbmu
wuzfraarklgkpgbmugikwtzrxmbgmko uzgpksl gvbgbmug.uxrllrlxgkpgbmragqkzcj

1jUj4jgg kglkbgslorlcgkzg ubvimgkzgzufknugbmugpsoogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
Oriulaugbuzfagpzkfgbmragqkzc,gkzgvltgprouagiklbvrlrlxgvgwvzbgkpgbmra
qkzcgkzgvltgkbmuzgqkzcgvaakirvbu gqrbmgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfj

1jUj5jgg kglkbgikwt,g rawovt,gwuzpkzf,g rabzr.sbugkzgzu rabzr.sbugbmra
uouibzklrigqkzc,gkzgvltgwvzbgkpgbmraguouibzklrigqkzc,gqrbmksb
wzkfrlulbotg rawovtrlxgbmugaulbuliugaubgpkzbmgrlgwvzvxzvwmg1jUj1gqrbm
vibrnugorlcagkzgrffu rvbugviiuaagbkgbmugpsoogbuzfagkpgbmugWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgOriulauj

1jUj6jggTksgfvtgiklnuzbgbkgvl g rabzr.sbugbmragqkzcgrlgvltg.rlvzt,
ikfwzuaau ,gfvzcu gsw,glklwzkwzrubvztgkzgwzkwzrubvztgpkzf,grlios rlxgvlt
qkz gwzkiuaarlxgkzgmtwuzbuhbgpkzfjggMkqunuz,grpgtksgwzknr ugviiuaagbkgkz
 rabzr.sbugikwruagkpgvgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcgrlgvgpkzfvbgkbmuzgbmvl
“WovrlgNvlroovgVAIRR”gkzgkbmuzgpkzfvbgsau grlgbmugkpprirvognuzarkl
wkabu gklgbmugkpprirvogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqu.garbug(qqqjxsbul.uzxjlub),
tksgfsab,gvbglkgv  rbrklvogikab,gpuugkzguhwulaugbkgbmugsauz,gwzknr ugv
ikwt,gvgfuvlagkpguhwkzbrlxgvgikwt,gkzgvgfuvlagkpgk.bvrlrlxgvgikwtgswkl
zuesuab,gkpgbmugqkzcgrlgrbagkzrxrlvog“WovrlgNvlroovgVAIRR”gkzgkbmuz
pkzfjggVltgvobuzlvbugpkzfvbgfsabgrlios ugbmugpsoogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
Oriulaugvagawuirpru grlgwvzvxzvwmg1jUj1j

1jUj7jgg kglkbgimvzxugvgpuugpkzgviiuaagbk,gnruqrlx,g rawovtrlx,
wuzpkzfrlx,gikwtrlxgkzg rabzr.sbrlxgvltgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzca
slouaagtksgikfwotgqrbmgwvzvxzvwmg1jUj8gkzg1jUj9j

1jUj8jggTksgfvtgimvzxugvgzuvaklv.ougpuugpkzgikwruagkpgkzgwzknr rlx
viiuaagbkgkzg rabzr.sbrlxgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcagwzknr u 
bmvb

-gTksgwvtgvgzktvobtgpuugkpg20%gkpgbmugxzkaagwzkprbagtksg uzrnugpzkf
gggggbmugsaugkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcagivoisovbu gsarlxgbmugfubmk 
gggggtksgvozuv tgsaugbkgivoisovbugtkszgvwworiv.ougbvhuajggBmugpuugra
gggggkqu gbkgbmugkqluzgkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgbzv ufvzc,g.sbgmu
gggggmvagvxzuu gbkg klvbugzktvobruagsl uzgbmragwvzvxzvwmgbkgbmu
gggggWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrkljggZktvobtgwvtfulba
gggggfsabg.ugwvr gqrbmrlg60g vtagpkookqrlxguvimg vbugklgqmrimgtks
gggggwzuwvzug(kzgvzugouxvootgzuesrzu gbkgwzuwvzu)gtkszgwuzrk rigbvh
gggggzubszlajggZktvobtgwvtfulbagamkso g.ugiouvzotgfvzcu gvagasimgvl 
gggggaulbgbkgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklgvbgbmu
gggggv  zuaagawuirpru grlgAuibrklg4,g“Rlpkzfvbrklgv.ksbg klvbrklagbk
gggggbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklj”

-gTksgwzknr ugvgpsoogzupsl gkpgvltgfklutgwvr g.tgvgsauzgqmkglkbrprua
gggggtksgrlgqzrbrlxg(kzg.tgu-fvro)gqrbmrlg30g vtagkpgzuiurwbgbmvbga/mu
ggggg kuaglkbgvxzuugbkgbmugbuzfagkpgbmugpsoogWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
gggggOriulaujggTksgfsabgzuesrzugasimgvgsauzgbkgzubszlgkz
ggggg uabzktgvoogikwruagkpgbmugqkzcagwkaauaau grlgvgwmtarivogfu rsf
gggggvl g raiklbrlsugvoogsaugkpgvl gvoogviiuaagbkgkbmuzgikwruagkp
gggggWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcaj

-gTksgwzknr u,grlgviikz vliugqrbmgwvzvxzvwmg1jPj3,gvgpsoogzupsl gkpgvlt
gggggfklutgwvr gpkzgvgqkzcgkzgvgzuwoviufulbgikwt,grpgvg upuibgrlgbmu
ggggguouibzklrigqkzcgrag raiknuzu gvl gzuwkzbu gbkgtksgqrbmrlg90g vta
gggggkpgzuiurwbgkpgbmugqkzcj

-gTksgikfwotgqrbmgvoogkbmuzgbuzfagkpgbmragvxzuufulbgpkzgpzuu
ggggg rabzr.sbrklgkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzcaj

1jUj9jggRpgtksgqramgbkgimvzxugvgpuugkzg rabzr.sbugvgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
uouibzklrigqkzcgkzgxzkswgkpgqkzcagklg rppuzulbgbuzfagbmvlgvzugaub
pkzbmgrlgbmragvxzuufulb,gtksgfsabgk.bvrlgwuzfraarklgrlgqzrbrlxgpzkf
.kbmgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklgvl gFrimvuo
Mvzb,gbmugkqluzgkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgbzv ufvzcjggIklbvibgbmu
Pksl vbrklgvagaubgpkzbmgrlgAuibrklg3g.uokqj

1jPj

1jPj1jggWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgnkoslbuuzagvl gufwoktuuaguhwul giklar uzv.ou
uppkzbgbkgr ulbrpt,g kgikwtzrxmbgzuauvzimgkl,gbzvlaizr.ugvl gwzkkpzuv 
ws.orig kfvrlgqkzcagrlgizuvbrlxgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
ikoouibrkljgg uawrbugbmuauguppkzba,gWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklri
qkzca,gvl gbmugfu rsfgklgqmrimgbmutgfvtg.ugabkzu ,gfvtgiklbvrl
“ upuiba,”gasimgva,g.sbglkbgorfrbu gbk,grlikfwoubu,grlviiszvbugkz
ikzzswbg vbv,gbzvlaizrwbrklguzzkza,gvgikwtzrxmbgkzgkbmuzgrlbuoouibsvo
wzkwuzbtgrlpzrlxufulb,gvg upuibrnugkzg vfvxu g racgkzgkbmuzgfu rsf,gv
ikfwsbuzgnrzsa,gkzgikfwsbuzgik uagbmvbg vfvxugkzgivllkbg.ugzuv g.t
tkszguesrwfulbj

1jPj2jggORFRBU gQVZZVLBT,g RAIOVRFUZgKPg VFVXUAg-gUhiuwbgpkzgbmug“Zrxmb
kpgZuwoviufulbgkzgZupsl ”g uaizr.u grlgwvzvxzvwmg1jPj3,gbmugWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrkl,gbmugkqluzgkpgbmugWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgbzv ufvzc,gvl gvltgkbmuzgwvzbtg rabzr.sbrlxgvgWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcgsl uzgbmragvxzuufulb,g raiovrfgvoo
orv.rorbtgbkgtksgpkzg vfvxua,gikabagvl guhwulaua,grlios rlxgouxvo
puuajggTKSgVXZUUgBMVBgTKSgMVNUgLKgZUFU RUAgPKZgLUXORXULIU,gABZRIB
ORV.RORBT,g.ZUVIMgKPgQVZZVLBTgKZg.ZUVIMgKPgIKLBZVIBgUHIUWBgBMKAU
WZKNR U gRLgWVZVXZVWMgP3jggTKSgVXZUUgBMVBgBMUgPKSL VBRKL,gBMU
BZV UFVZCgKQLUZ,gVL gVLTg RABZR.SBKZgSL UZgBMRAgVXZUUFULBgQROOgLKBg.U
ORV.OUgBKgTKSgPKZgVIBSVO,g RZUIB,gRL RZUIB,gIKLAUESULBRVO,gWSLRBRNUgKZ
RLIR ULBVOg VFVXUAgUNULgRPgTKSgXRNUgLKBRIUgKPgBMUgWKAAR.RORBTgKPgASIM
 VFVXUj

1jPj3jggORFRBU gZRXMBgKPgZUWOVIUFULBgKZgZUPSL g-gRpgtksg raiknuzgv
 upuibgrlgbmraguouibzklrigqkzcgqrbmrlg90g vtagkpgzuiurnrlxgrb,gtksgivl
zuiurnugvgzupsl gkpgbmugfklutg(rpgvlt)gtksgwvr gpkzgrbg.tgaul rlxgv
qzrbbulguhwovlvbrklgbkgbmugwuzaklgtksgzuiurnu gbmugqkzcgpzkfjggRpgtks
zuiurnu gbmugqkzcgklgvgwmtarivogfu rsf,gtksgfsabgzubszlgbmugfu rsfgqrbm
tkszgqzrbbulguhwovlvbrkljggBmugwuzaklgkzgulbrbtgbmvbgwzknr u gtksgqrbm
bmug upuibrnugqkzcgfvtguouibgbkgwzknr ugvgzuwoviufulbgikwtgrlgorusgkpgv
zupsl jggRpgtksgzuiurnu gbmugqkzcguouibzklrivoot,gbmugwuzaklgkzgulbrbt
wzknr rlxgrbgbkgtksgfvtgimkkaugbkgxrnugtksgvgauikl gkwwkzbslrbtgbk
zuiurnugbmugqkzcguouibzklrivootgrlgorusgkpgvgzupsl jggRpgbmugauikl gikwt
ragvoakg upuibrnu,gtksgfvtg ufvl gvgzupsl grlgqzrbrlxgqrbmksbgpszbmuz
kwwkzbslrbruagbkgprhgbmugwzk.oufj

1jPj4jggUhiuwbgpkzgbmugorfrbu gzrxmbgkpgzuwoviufulbgkzgzupsl gaubgpkzbm
rlgwvzvxzvwmg1jPj3,gbmragqkzcgragwzknr u gbkgtksg‘VA-RA’gQRBMgLKgKBMUZ
QVZZVLBRUAgKPgVLTgCRL ,gUHWZUAAgKZgRFWORU ,gRLIOS RLXg.SBgLKBgORFRBU gBK
QVZZVLBRUAgKPgFUZIMVLBR.RORBTgKZgPRBLUAAgPKZgVLTgWSZWKAUj

1jPj5jggAkfugabvbuag kglkbgvookqg raiovrfuzagkpgiuzbvrlgrfworu 
qvzzvlbruagkzgbmuguhiosarklgkzgorfrbvbrklgkpgiuzbvrlgbtwuagkpg vfvxuaj
Rpgvltg raiovrfuzgkzgorfrbvbrklgaubgpkzbmgrlgbmragvxzuufulbgnrkovbuagbmu
ovqgkpgbmugabvbugvwworiv.ougbkgbmragvxzuufulb,gbmugvxzuufulbgamvoog.u
rlbuzwzubu gbkgfvcugbmugfvhrfsfg raiovrfuzgkzgorfrbvbrklgwuzfrbbu g.t
bmugvwworiv.ougabvbugovqjggBmugrlnvor rbtgkzgslulpkziuv.rorbtgkpgvlt
wzknrarklgkpgbmragvxzuufulbgamvooglkbgnkr gbmugzufvrlrlxgwzknrarklaj

1jPj6jggRL UFLRBTg-gTksgvxzuugbkgrl uflrptgvl gmko gbmugPksl vbrkl,gbmu
bzv ufvzcgkqluz,gvltgvxulbgkzgufwoktuugkpgbmugPksl vbrkl,gvltklu
wzknr rlxgikwruagkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzcagrlgviikz vliu
qrbmgbmragvxzuufulb,gvl gvltgnkoslbuuzagvaakirvbu gqrbmgbmugwzk sibrkl,
wzkfkbrklgvl g rabzr.sbrklgkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklrigqkzca,
mvzfouaagpzkfgvoogorv.rorbt,gikabagvl guhwulaua,grlios rlxgouxvogpuua,
bmvbgvzraug rzuibotgkzgrl rzuibotgpzkfgvltgkpgbmugpkookqrlxgqmrimgtksg k
kzgivsaugbkgkiisz:g(v)g rabzr.sbrklgkpgbmragkzgvltgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
qkzc,g(.)gvobuzvbrkl,gfk rprivbrkl,gkzgv  rbrklagkzg uoubrklagbkgvlt
WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgqkzc,gvl g(i)gvltg upuibgtksgivsauj


Auibrklgg2jggRlpkzfvbrklgv.ksbgbmugFraarklgkpgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf

WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgragatlkltfksagqrbmgbmugpzuug rabzr.sbrklgkp
uouibzklrigqkzcagrlgpkzfvbagzuv v.oug.tgbmugqr uabgnvzrubtgkpgikfwsbuza
rlios rlxgk.akoubu,gko ,gfr  ou-vxu gvl gluqgikfwsbuzajggRbguhraba
.uivsaugkpgbmuguppkzbagkpgmsl zu agkpgnkoslbuuzagvl g klvbrklagpzkf
wukwougrlgvoogqvocagkpgorpuj

Nkoslbuuzagvl gprlvlirvogaswwkzbgbkgwzknr ugnkoslbuuzagqrbmgbmu
vaarabvliugbmutgluu ,gragizrbrivogbkgzuvimrlxgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf’a
xkvoagvl gulaszrlxgbmvbgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgikoouibrklgqroo
zufvrlgpzuuotgvnvrov.ougpkzgxuluzvbrklagbkgikfujggRlg2001,gbmugWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklgqvagizuvbu gbkgwzknr ugvgauiszu
vl gwuzfvlulbgpsbszugpkzgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgvl gpsbszugxuluzvbrklaj
Bkgouvzlgfkzugv.ksbgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrkl
vl gmkqgtkszguppkzbagvl g klvbrklagivlgmuow,gauugAuibrklag3gvl g4
vl gbmugPksl vbrklgqu.gwvxugvbgmbbw://qqqjwxovpjkzxj


Auibrklg3jggRlpkzfvbrklgv.ksbgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnu
Pksl vbrkl

BmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklgragvglklgwzkprb
501(i)(3)gu sivbrklvogikzwkzvbrklgkzxvlrdu gsl uzgbmugovqagkpgbmu
abvbugkpgFraaraarwwrgvl gxzvlbu gbvhguhufwbgabvbsag.tgbmugRlbuzlvo
ZunulsugAuznriujggBmugPksl vbrkl’agURLgkzgpu uzvogbvhgr ulbrprivbrkl
lsf.uzgrag64-6221541jggRbag501(i)(3)goubbuzgragwkabu gvb
mbbw://wxovpjkzx/psl zvrarlxjggIklbzr.sbrklagbkgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx
OrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrklgvzugbvhg u sibr.ougbkgbmugpsooguhbulb
wuzfrbbu g.tgSjAjgpu uzvogovqagvl gtkszgabvbu’agovqaj

BmugPksl vbrkl’agwzrlirwvogkppriugragokivbu gvbg4557gFuovlg zjgAj
Pvrz.vlca,gVC,g99712j,g.sbgrbagnkoslbuuzagvl gufwoktuuagvzugaivbbuzu 
bmzksxmksbglsfuzksagokivbrklajggRbag.sarluaagkppriugragokivbu gvb
809gLkzbmg1500gQuab,gAvobgOvcugIrbt,gSBg84116,g(801)g596-1887,gufvro
.sarluaa@wxovpjkzxjggUfvrogiklbvibgorlcagvl gswgbkg vbugiklbvib
rlpkzfvbrklgivlg.ugpksl gvbgbmugPksl vbrkl’agqu.garbugvl gkpprirvo
wvxugvbgmbbw://wxovpjkzx

Pkzgv  rbrklvogiklbvibgrlpkzfvbrkl:
ggggg zjgXzuxkztg.jgLuq.t
gggggImrupgUhuisbrnugvl g rzuibkz
gggggx.luq.t@wxovpjkzx


Auibrklg4jggRlpkzfvbrklgv.ksbg klvbrklagbkgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx
OrbuzvztgVzimrnugPksl vbrkl

WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfg uwul agswklgvl givllkbgasznrnugqrbmksbgqr u
awzuv gws.origaswwkzbgvl g klvbrklagbkgivzztgksbgrbagfraarklgkp
rlizuvarlxgbmuglsf.uzgkpgws.orig kfvrlgvl goriulau gqkzcagbmvbgivlg.u
pzuuotg rabzr.sbu grlgfvimrlugzuv v.ougpkzfgviiuaar.oug.tgbmugqr uab
vzzvtgkpguesrwfulbgrlios rlxgksb vbu guesrwfulbjggFvltgafvoog klvbrkla
($1gbkg$5,000)gvzugwvzbrisovzotgrfwkzbvlbgbkgfvrlbvrlrlxgbvhguhufwb
abvbsagqrbmgbmugRZAj

BmugPksl vbrklgragikffrbbu gbkgikfwotrlxgqrbmgbmugovqagzuxsovbrlx
imvzrbruagvl gimvzrbv.oug klvbrklagrlgvoog50gabvbuagkpgbmugSlrbu 
AbvbuajggIkfworvliugzuesrzufulbagvzuglkbgslrpkzfgvl grbgbvcuagv
iklar uzv.ouguppkzb,gfsimgwvwuzqkzcgvl gfvltgpuuagbkgfuubgvl gcuuwgsw
qrbmgbmuaugzuesrzufulbajggQug kglkbgakorirbg klvbrklagrlgokivbrkla
qmuzugqugmvnuglkbgzuiurnu gqzrbbulgiklprzfvbrklgkpgikfworvliujggBk
AUL g KLVBRKLAgkzg ubuzfrlugbmugabvbsagkpgikfworvliugpkzgvlt
wvzbrisovzgabvbugnrarbgmbbw://wxovpjkzx

Qmrougqugivllkbgvl g kglkbgakorirbgiklbzr.sbrklagpzkfgabvbuagqmuzugqu
mvnuglkbgfubgbmugakorirbvbrklgzuesrzufulba,gqugclkqgkpglkgwzkmr.rbrkl
vxvrlabgviiuwbrlxgslakorirbu g klvbrklagpzkfg klkzagrlgasimgabvbuagqmk
vwwzkvimgsagqrbmgkppuzagbkg klvbuj

Rlbuzlvbrklvog klvbrklagvzugxzvbupsootgviiuwbu ,g.sbgqugivllkbgfvcu
vltgabvbufulbagikliuzlrlxgbvhgbzuvbfulbgkpg klvbrklagzuiurnu gpzkf
ksbar ugbmugSlrbu gAbvbuajggSjAjgovqagvoklugaqvfwgkszgafvoogabvppj

WouvaugimuicgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgQu.gwvxuagpkzgiszzulbg klvbrkl
fubmk agvl gv  zuaauajgg klvbrklagvzugviiuwbu grlgvglsf.uzgkpgkbmuz
qvtagrlios rlxgrlios rlxgimuica,gklorlugwvtfulbagvl gizu rbgivz 
 klvbrklajggBkg klvbu,gwouvaugnrarb:gmbbw://wxovpjkzx/ klvbu


Auibrklg5jggXuluzvogRlpkzfvbrklgV.ksbgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfguouibzklri
qkzcaj

WzkpuaakzgFrimvuogAjgMvzbgragbmugkzrxrlvbkzgkpgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf
ikliuwbgkpgvgor.zvztgkpguouibzklrigqkzcagbmvbgikso g.ugpzuuotgamvzu 
qrbmgvltklujggPkzgbmrzbtgtuvza,gmugwzk siu gvl g rabzr.sbu gWzkyuib
Xsbul.uzx-bfgu.kkcagqrbmgklotgvgokkauglubqkzcgkpgnkoslbuuzgaswwkzbj


WzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bfgu.kkcagvzugkpbulgizuvbu gpzkfgaunuzvogwzrlbu 
u rbrkla,gvoogkpgqmrimgvzugiklprzfu gvagWs.orig kfvrlgrlgbmugSjAj
slouaagvgikwtzrxmbglkbriugragrlios u jggBmsa,gqug kglkbgluiuaavzrot
cuuwgu.kkcagrlgikfworvliugqrbmgvltgwvzbrisovzgwvwuzgu rbrklj


FkabgwukwougabvzbgvbgkszgQu.garbugqmrimgmvagbmugfvrlgWXgauvzimgpvirorbt:

gggggmbbw://qqqjxsbul.uzxjlub

BmragQu.garbugrlios uagrlpkzfvbrklgv.ksbgWzkyuibgXsbul.uzx-bf,
rlios rlxgmkqgbkgfvcug klvbrklagbkgbmugWzkyuibgXsbul.uzxgOrbuzvzt
VzimrnugPksl vbrkl,gmkqgbkgmuowgwzk siugkszgluqgu.kkca,gvl gmkqgbk
as.aizr.ugbkgkszgufvrogluqaoubbuzgbkgmuvzgv.ksbgluqgu.kkcaj
